UC SOUTHERN R 


Il 


EGIONAL LIBRARY FA 


" 


CILITY 


Seger 
wf; f 
(Oo 


ri 
a 


DICTIONARY 


OF 


PHRASE AND FABLE 


DICTIONARY 


OF 


PHRASE AND FABLE 


GIVING THE 
Derivation, Source, or Origin of Common Phrases, Allustons, 
and Words that have a Tale to Tell 


BY THE REV. 


Bo COBHAM BREWER. LL.D. 


NEW EDITION 
REVISED, CORRECTED, AND ENLARGED 


TO WHICH IS ADDED 


A CONCISE BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE 


100th THOUSAND 


CASS... «awn - COMPAN Y,. Limirep 


LONDON, PARIS & MELLOURNE 
1895 


ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 


Tabourers 


721 


Lady 


vy 


Labourers (Zhe Statute of). An 
attempt made in 1349 to fix the rate of 
wages at which labourers should be 
compelled to work. 


Labyrinth. A mass of buildings or 
garden - walks, so complicated as to 
puzzle strangers to extricate themselves. 
Said to be so called from Lab’yris, an 
Egyptian monarch of the 12th dynasty. 
The chief labyrinths are :— 

(1) The Egyptian, by Petesu’chis or 
Tithoes, near the Lake Moeris. It had 
3,000 apartments, half of which were 
underground, (B.c. 1800.) Pliny, xxxvi. 
13; and Pomponius Mela, i. 9. 

(2) The Cretan, by De‘dalos, for im- 
prisoning the Minotaur. The only 
means of finding a way out of it was by 
help of a skein of thread. (See Vurgil: 
Ainéid, v.) 

(3) The Cretan conduit, which had 
1,000 branches or turnings. 

(4) The Lem’nian, by the architects 
Zmilus, Rholus, and Theodorus. It 
had 150 columns, so nicely adjusted that 
a child could turn them. Vestiges of 
this labyrinth were still in existence in 
the time of Pliny. 

(5) The labyrinth of Clu’sium, made 
by Lars Por’sena, King of Etruria, for 
his tomb. 

(6) The Samian, by Theodo’rus (B.c. 
540). Referred to by Pliny ; by Herod- 
otos, ii. 145; by Strabo, x.; and by 
Diodorus Siciilus, i. 

(7) The labyrinth at Woodstock, by 
Henry II., for the Fair Rosamond. 

.(8) Of mazes formed by hedges. The 
best known is that of Hampton Court. 


Lac of Rupees. The nominal value 
of the Indian rupee is 2s., and a lac 
means 100,000. At this estimate, a lac of 
rupees= 200,000s. or £10,000, Its present 
value varies according to the market 
value of silver. In 1894 between 13 
and 14 pence. 


Lace. I7ll lace your jacket for you, 
beat you. (French, /aisse, a lash ; Ger- 
man, laschen, to strike; our lash.) 


Laced. 7va or coffee laced with spirits, 
a cup of tea or coffee qualified with 
brandy or whisky. 

“Deacon Bearcliff . . . had his pipe,and his 


teacup... laced with a little spirits.”—Sir 
W. Scott: Guy Manneriny, chap. xi. 


“Dandie . . . partook of a cup of tea with 
Mrs. Allan, just laced with two teaspoonfuls of 
cogniac,”’—Ditto, chap. lii. 

Lacedzmonian Letter (72). The 
Greek ¢ (iota), the smallest of all letters. 
Laconic brevity. (See Laconic.) 


46 
iI 


Lacedzemonians (716). The Duke 
of Cornwall’s Light Infantry. So called 
because in 1777 their colonel made a 
long harangue, under heavy fire, on the 
Spartan discipline and military system. 
(See RED FEATHERS. ) 

Lachesis [[α]΄ -- 515]. The Fate who 
spins life’s thread, working into the 
woof the sundry events destined {0 
occur. Clotho held the distaff, and 
Atrépos cut off the thread when life 
was to be ended. (Greek, Alétho, to 
draw thread from a distaff; Lachesis 
from lagchdno, to assign by lot; and 
A lropos = inflexible.) 


Lackadaisical. Affected, pensive, 
sentimental, artificially tender. 


Laconic. Very concise and pithy. 
A Spartan was called a Lacon from La- 
co’nia, the land in which he dwelt. The 
Spartans were noted for their brusque 
and sententious speech. When Philip 
of Macedon wrote to the Spartan magis- 
trates, ‘‘ If I enter Laco’nia, I will level 
Lacedemon to the ground,”’ the ephors 
wrote word back the single word, ‘* If.” 
(See above LACEDEMONIAN LETTER.) 

In 1490 O’ Neil wrote to O’ Donnel : 
“ἐς Send me the tribute, or else ae Ἢ 10) 
which O’Donnel replied: ‘‘ I owe none, 
or else iy 

Lacus'trine Deposits. Deposits 
formed at the bottom of fresh-water 
pools and lakes. (Latin, dacus, a lake.) 


Lacus'trine Habitations. The re- 
mains of human dwellings of great 
antiquity, constructed ou certain lakes 
in Ireland, Switzerland, ete. They seem 
to have been villages built on piles in 
the middle of a lake. 


Lad o’ Wax. A little boy, a doll of 
aman. In Romeo and Juliet the Nurse 
calls Paris ‘‘a man of wax,’’ meaning a 
very ‘‘ proper man.’’ Horace speaks of 
the ‘‘ waxen arms of Tel’ephus,’’ mean- 
ing well modelled, 


La’das. Alexander’s messenger, noted 
for his swiftness of foot, mentioned by 
Catullus,- Martial, and others. “Lord 
Rosebery’s horse Ladas won the Derby 
in 1894. 

Ladies. (See after Lavy.) 


La‘don. One of the dogs of Acton. 
Ladon. The dragon which guarded 
the apples of the Hesper‘idés. 


Ladrones. The island of thieves; 
so called, in 1519, by Magellan. 


Lady. A woman of wealth, of station, 
or of rank. Verstegan says, ‘‘It was 


Ladybird 


75 


τῷ 


Lady of the Broom 


anciently written Hleafdian [? hlefdige], 
contracted first into Lafdy, and then 
into Lady. Laf or Hiaf (loaf) means 
food in general or bread in particular, 
and dig-ian or dug-an, to help, serve, or 
care for ; whence lady means the ‘ bread- 
server.’ The lord (or loaf-ward) sup- 
plied the food, and the lady saw that 
it was properly served, for the ladies 
used to carve and distribute the food to 
the guests.’’ 


Another etymology is I[laf-weardie and loaf- 
waurdie, where ie stands for a female sumMix like -ine 
-ine; as Carolus, female Carol-ina, or Curol-ine ; 
Joseph, Joseph-inw or Joseph-ine ; Czar, Czar-ina, 
etc, ete, 

Ladies vetire to the drawing-room 
after dinner, and leave the gentlemen 
behind. This custom was brought in 
by the Norsemen. The Vikings always 
dismissed all women from their drinking 


parties, (S. Bunbury.) 


Ladybird, Ladyfly, Ladycow, or 
May-bug. The Bishop Barnaby, called 
in German, Unser herrin huhn (our 
Lady-fowl), Marien-huhn (Mary-fow]), 
and Marien Kifer (Mary’s beetle). 
‘“*Cushcow Lady,” as it is called in 
Yorkshire, is also the German Marien- 
kalb (Lady-calf), in French, béte ἃ Dieu. 
Thus the cockchafer is called the May- 
bug, where the German /éfer is rendered 
bug; and several of the scarabei are 
called bugs, as the rose-bug, etc. (See 
ΒΙΒΗΟΡ.) 


Lady Bountiful. The benevolent 
lady of a village. The character of Lady 
Bountiful is from the Beana’ Stratagem, 
by Farquhar. 


Lady Chapel. The small chapel 
east of the altar, or behind the screen of 
the high altar; dedicated to the Virgin 
Mary. 


Lady Day. The 25th of March, to 
commemorate the Annunciation of Our 
Lady, the Virgin Mary. There is a tra- 
dition that Adam was created on this 
day. Of course, this rests on Jesus be- 
ing ‘‘the Second Adam,” or ‘‘ federal 
head.”’ 


Lady Isabella, the beloved daughter 
of a noble lord, accompanied her father 
and mother on a chase one day, when 
her step-mother requested her to return 
and tell the master-cook to prepare 
“Ὁ the milk-white doe for dinner.”? Lady 
Isabella did as she was told, and the 
master-cook replied, ‘‘ Thou art the doe 
that I must dress.’’ The scullion-boy 
exclaimed, ‘‘O save the lady’s life, and 
make thy pies of me;’’ but the master- 
cook heeded him not. When the lord 


returned he called for his daughter, the 
fair Isabelle, and the scullion-boy said, 
“Tf now you will your daughter see, 
my lord, cut up that pie.’’ When the 
fond father comprehended the awful 
tragedy, he adjudged the cruel step- 
dame to be burnt alive, and the mart:r- 
cook ‘‘in boiling lead to stand;’’ but 
the scullion-boy he made _ his heir, 
(Percy : Reliques, ete., series iii., bk. 2.) 
Lady Magistrate. Lady Berkley 
was made by Queen Mary a justice of 
the peace for Gloucestershire and ap- 
ointed to the quorum of Suffolk. Lady 
erkley sat on the bench at assizes and 
sessions, girt witha sword. Tony Lump- 
kin says of Mr. Hardcastle— 


“He'll persuade you that his mother was an 
alderman and his aunt a justice of the peace."— 
Goldsmith: She Stoops to Conquer. 


Lady Margaret Professcr of Di- 
vinity, founded in 1502 by the mother 
of Henry VII. The year following she 
founded a preachership. Both in the 
University of Cambridge. 


Lady in the Sacque. The appa- 
rition of this hag forms the story of 
the Zapestried Chamber, by Sir Walter 
Scott. 

An old woman, whose dress was an old- 
fashioned gown, which lad‘es call a sacque ; that 
is, a sort of robe completely loose in the hody 
}ut gathered into broad plaits upon the neck and 
shoulders. 

Lady of England. Maud, daughter 
of Henry 1. The title of ‘‘ Dom’ina An- 
glorwmn’?’ was conferred upon her by the 
Council of Winchester, held April 7th, 
1141. (Rymer : Federa, i.) 

Lady of Mercy (Qwr). An order 
of knighthood in Spain, instituted in 
1218 by James I. of Aragon, for the de- 
liverance of Christian captives amongst 
the Moors. Within the first six years, 
as many as 400 captives were rescued by 
these knights. 


Lady of Shallott’. A maiden who 
fell in love with Sir Lancelot of the 
Lake, and died because her love was not 
returned, Tennyson has a poem on the 
subject ; and the story of Elaine, ‘‘ the 
lily maid of As’tolat,”? in the Jdylls of 
the King, is substantially the same. (See 
ELAINE.) 

Lady of the Bleeding Heart. 
Ellen Douglas; so called from the cog- 
nisance of thefamily. (Sir alter Scott : 
Lady of the Lake, ii. 10.) 


Lady of the Broom (Tie). 
housemaid. 
“Highly disgusted at a farthing candie, 
‘Left by the Lady of the Broom, 
Named Susan...” : 
Peter Pindar: The Diamond Pin. 


A 


Lady 


—— 


Lady of the Haystack made her | 


appearance in 1776 at Bourton, near 
Bristol. She was young and beautiful, 
graceful, and evidently accustomed to 
good society. She lived for four years 
ina haystack; but was ultimately kept 
by Mrs. Hannah More in an asylum, and 
died suddenly in December, 1801. Mrs. 
More called her Louisa; but she was 
probably a Mademoiselle La Friilen, 
natural daughter of Francis Joseph I., 
Emperor of Austria. (See World of 
Wonders, p. 134.) 


Lady of the Lake. Vivien, mistress 
of Merlin, the enchanter, who lived in 
the midst of an imaginary lake, sur- 
rounded by knights and damsels, Ten- 
nyson, in the /dylls of the King, tells 
the story of Vivien and Merlin. (See 
LANCELOT.) 

Lady of the Lake. FEllen Douglas, 
who lived with her father near Loch 


Katrine. (Sir Walter Scott: The Lady 
of the Lake.) 
Lady of the Rock (Ov). A miracu- 


lous image of the Virgin found by the 
wayside between Salamanca and Ciudad 
Rodrigo in 1409, 


Ladies’ Mile (Zhe). That part of 
Hyde Park which is most frequented by 
ladies on horseback or in carriages. 


Ladies’ Plate (7/c), inraces, is not a 
race for a prize subscribed for by ladies, 
but a race run for by women. 

“On the Monday succeeding St. Wilfred’s Sun- 
day, there were for many years at Roper'’s Com- 
mon [a race] called the Lady's Plate, of £15 value, 
for horses, ete., ridden by women.’— Sporting 
Magazine, vol. xx., New Series,.p. 287. 

Ladies’ Smocks. Garden cress, 
botanically called Cardamine, a diminu- 
tive of the Greek fardamon, called in 
Latin xasturtiwm, sometimes called 
Nose-smart (Aara-damén, head-afflict- 
ing); so nasturtium is Nasi-tortium 
(nose-twisting), called so in consequence 
of its pungency. 

“When ladies’ smocks of silver white 
Do paint the meadows with delight.” 

Called Ladies’ smocks because the 
flowers resemble linen exposed to whiten 
on the grass—‘‘ when maidens bleach 
their summer smocks.’’ There is, how- 
ever, a purple tint which marsits perfect 
whiteness. Another name of the plant 
is ‘‘ Cuckoo-flower,’’ because it comes 
into flower when the cuckoo sings. 


Ladies and Gentlemen. Till 1808 
public speakers began their addresses 
with ‘‘ gentlemen and ladies ;’’ but since 
then the order has been reversed. 


728 


Laissez Faire 


| 


| 


Leding. The strongest chain that 
had hitherto been made. 10 was forged 
by Asa.Thor to bind the wolf Fenrir 
with; but the wolf snapped it as if it 
had been made of tow. Fenrir was then 
bound with the chain Dromi, much 
stronger than Leding, but the beast 
snapped it instantly with equal ease. 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Lelaps. A very powerful dog given 
by Diana to Procris ; Procris gave it to 
Ceph’alos. While pursuing a wild boar 
it was metamorphosed into a stone. (See 
Does, Acteon’s fifty dogs.) 


Laer'tes (3 syl.). Son of Polo’nius 
and brother of Ophelia. He kills Hamlet 
with a poisoned rapier, and dies himself 
from a wound by the same foil. (Shake- 
speare: Hamlet. ) 


Leeta’re Sunday. The fourth Sun- 
day in Lent is so called from the first 
word of the Introit, which is from Isa. 
Ixvi. 10: ‘‘ Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, 
and be glad with her all ye that love 
her.”? It is on this day that the pope 
blesses the Golden Rose. 


Lag’ado. Capital of Balnibarbi, cele- 
brated for its grand academy of pro- 
jectors, where the scholars spend their 
time in such useful projects as making 
pineushions from softened rocks, ex- 
tracting sunbeams from cucumbers, and 
converting ice into gunpowder. (Swift: 
Gulliver’s Travels, Voyage to Lapu'ta.) 


Lager Beer. A strong German beer, 
Lager means a “ storehouse,’’ and lager 
beer means strong beer made (in March) 
for keeping. 


Laird (Scotch). 
prietor. 
Laird of Cockpen (77). 
Duke of Buccleuch. 


Lais. A courtesan or Greek Hetaira. 
There were two of the name; the elder 
was the most beautiful woman of Corinth, 
and lived at the time of the Peloponne’- 
sian War. The beauty of the latter ex- 
cited the jealousy of the Thessalonian 
women, who pricked her to death with 
their bodkins. She was contemporary 
with Phryne (2 syl.), her rival, and sat 
to Apelles as a model. 


Laissez Faire, Laissez Passer. 
Lord John Russell said: ‘‘ Colbert, with 
the intention of fostering the manufac- 
tures of France, established regulations 
limiting the webs woven in looms to a 
particular size. He also prohibited the 
introduction of foreign manufactures. 


A landed pro- 


The 


Lake School 


Then the French vine-growers, finding 
they could no longer get rid of their 
wine, began to grumble. When Colbert 
asked a merchant what relief he could 
give, he received for answer, ‘ Laissez 
faire, laissez passer ;’ that is to say, 
Don’t interfere with our mode of manu- 
factures, and don’t stop the introduction 
of foreign imports,”’ 

The laissez-faire system. 
system, 


Lake School (Zhe), The school of 
poetry introduced by the Lake poets 
Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Southey, 
who resided in the Lake district of Cum- 
berland and Westmoreland, and sought 
inspiration in the simplicity of nature, 
The name was first applied in derision by 
the Edinburgh Review to the class of 
poets who followed the above-named trio. 

N.B. Charles Lamb, Lloyd, and Pro- 
fessor William (Christopher North) are 
sometimes placed among the “ Lakers.’’ 


Laked‘ion or Laquedem (Jsaac). 
The name given in France, in the four- 
teenth century, to the Wandering Jew. 


Lakin. δ} Lakin. An oath, mean- 
ing “ΒΥ our Lady-kin,”’ or Little Lady, 
where little does not refer to size, but is 
equivalent to dear. 

“By’r Lakin, a parlous [perilous] fear.”’—Shake- 
speare: A Midsummer Night's Dream, iii. 1. 

-Laks’mi or Lakshmi. One of the 
consorts of Vishnu; she is goddess of 
beauty, wealth, and pleasure. (Hindu 
mythology.) 

Lalla Rookh [flip check| is the 
supposed daughter of Au-rung-ze’-be, 
Emperor of Delhi, betrothed to Al'iris, 
Sultan of Lesser Buchar'ia. On her 
journey from Delhi to the valley of 
Cashmere, she is entertained by a young 
Persian poet named Fer’amorz, who is 
supposed to relate the four poetical tales 
of the romance, and with whom she 
falls in love. (Thomas Moore: Lalla 
Rookh.) (See FERAMORZ.) 


Lama, among the Mongols, means 
the priestly order. Hence the religion 
of the Mongols and Calmucs is termed 
Lamaism. The Grand Lamas wear 
yellow caps, the subordinate Lamas γε 
caps. (See GRAND LAMA.) 


La’maism [Tibetan, Blama, spiritual 
teacher]. The religion of Tibet and 
Mongolia, which is Buddhism corrupted 
by Sivaism and spirit-worship. 

Lamb. In Christian art, an emblem 
a me Redeemer, called the ‘‘ Lamb of 

od. 


The let-alone 


It is also the attribute of St. 


4 Lambert’s Day 


Agnes, St. Geneviéve, St. Catherine, and 
St. Regina. John the Baptist either 
carries a lamb or is accompanied by 
one. It is also introduced symbolic- 
ally to represent any of the ‘‘ types”’ of 
Christ ; as Abraham, Moses, and so on. 


Lamb (The Vegetable) or Tartarian 
lamb; technically called Polypodium 
Barometz. It is a Chinese fern with a 
decumbent root, covered with a soft, 
dense yellow wool. Sir Hans Sloane, 
who calls it the Tartarian lamb, has 
given a print of it; and Dr. Hunter has 
given a print which makes its resem- 
blance to a lamb still more striking. 
The down is used in India for staunch- 
ing hemorrhage. 

“ Rooted in earth each cloyen hoof descends, 
And round and round her flexile neck she 
bends ; 
Crops the grey coral moss, and hoary thyme, 

Or Japs with rosy tongue the melting rime ; 

Eyes with mute tenderness her distant dam, 

And seems to bleat, 1 Vegetable Lamb.” 

Darwin: Loves of the Plants, 283, ete. 

Lamb. (Cold lanb. <A schoolboy’s 
joke. Setting a boy on a cold marble or 
stone hearth. Horace (Sat. i. 5, 22) has 
** Dotare lumbos,’’? which may have sug- 
gested the pun. 


Lamb-pie. A flogging. Lamb is a 
pun on the Latin verb /ambo (to lick), 
and the word ‘‘ lick’’ has been perverted 
to mean flog (see Lick) ; or it may be the 
old Norse /am (the hand), meaning hand- 
or slap-pie. (See LAMMING.) 


Lamb’s Conduit Street (London). 
Stow says, ‘‘One William Lamb, citizen 
and clothworker, born at Sutton Valence, 
Kent, did found near unto Oldbourne a 
faire conduit and standard; from this 
conduit, water clear as crystal was con- 
veyed in pipes to a conduit on Snow 
Hill” (26th March, 1577). The conduit 
was taken down in 1746, 


Lamb’s Wool. A beverage consist- 
ing of the juice of apples roasted over 
spiced ale. A great day for this drink 
was the feast of the apple-gathering, 
called in Irish /a mas ubhal, pronounced 
“‘lammas ool,’?? and corrupted into 
‘Jamb’s wool.’’ 

“The pulpe of the rosted apples, in number 
foure or five... mixed ina wine quart of faire 
water, laboured together untill it come to he as 


apples and ale, which we call lambes wool.”— 
Johnson's Gerard, p. 1460, 


Lambert’s Day (S¢.), September 17th. 
St. Landebert or Lambert, a native of 
Maestricht, lived in the seventh century. 

* Be ready, as your lives shall answer it, 
At Coyentry, upon St. Lambert’s day.” 
Shakespeare: Richard 11.,i. i. 


Tambro 72: 


Lamps 


Lambro was the father of Haidée. 
Major Lambro, the prototype, was head 
of the Russian piratical squadron in 
1791. He contrived to escape when the 
rest were seized by the Algerines on the 
island of Zia. (Byron : Don Juan, iii. 26.) 


Lame Duck (4), in Stock Exchange 
parlance, means a member of the Stock 
Exchange who waddles off on settle- 
ment day without settling his account. 
All such defaulters are black-boarded 
and struck off the list. Sometimes it is 
used for one who cannot pay his debts, 
one who trades without money, 


“Pitt... gambled and lost: 
But who must answer for the cost ? 
Not he, indeed! A duck confounded lame 


Not unattended waddling ... 
Peter Pindar: Proh Impudentiam. 
Lame King. A Grecian oracle had 
told Sparta to ‘* Beware of a lame king.’’ 
Agesila’os was lame, and during his 
reign Sparta lost her supremacy. 


Lame Vicegerent (in JZudibras). 
Richard Cromwell. 


Lam’erock (Sir), of Wales. A knight 
of the Round Table, son of Sir Pellinore, 
and brother of Sir Percival. He had an 
amour with his own aunt, the wife of 
King Lote. Strange that of all the famous 
knights of the Round Table, Sir Caradoc 
and Sir Galahad were the only ones 
who were continent, 


Lamia. A female phantom, whose 
name was used by the Greeks and 
Romans as a bugbear to children, She 
was a Lib’yan queen beloved by Jupiter, 
but robbed of her offspring by the 
jealous Juno; and in consequence she 
vowed vengeance against all children, 
whom she delighted to entice and mur- 
der. (See Farry.) 


“Keats has a poem so called. His Lamia isa 
serpent who assumed the form of a beautiful 
woman, was beloved by a young manand got a 
soul. The tale was drawn from Philostratus.”— 
De Vita Apollonii, hook iv., introduced by Burton 
in his Anatomy of Melancholy. 

Lammas. 4¢ latter Lammas—i.e. 


never. (See NEVER.) 


Lammas Day (August Ist) means the 
loaf-mass day. The day of first-fruit 
offerings, when a loaf was given to the 
priests in lieu of the first-fruits. (Saxon, 
hlam-meesse, for hlaf-messe deg.) 

August 1 Old Style, August 12 New Style. 

Lammas-tide. Lammas time, or the 
season when lammas occurs. 


Lammer Beads. Amber beads, once 
used ascharms. (French, l’ambre ; Teu- 
tonic, lamertyn-stein.) 


Lammermoor, (See EpGar, LuctA.) 


Lamming (4). A beating. (See 
LAMB-PIE. ) 
Lamminin, Lamkin, Linkin, or 


Bold Rakin. <A Scottish ogre, repre- 
sented in the ballad as a bloodthirsty 
mason ; the terror of the Scotch nursery. 


Lam’'ourette’s Kiss. On July 7th, 
1792, the Abbé Lamourette induced the 
different factions of the Legislative As- 
sembly of France to lay aside their 
differences; so the deputies of the 
Royalists, Constitutionalists, Girondists, 
Jacobins, and Orleanists rushed into 
each other’s arms, and the king was sent 
for to see ‘‘ how these Christians loved 
one another;’’ but the reconciliation 
was hollow and unsound. The term is 
now used for a reconciliation of policy 
without abatement of rancour. 


Lamp. 170 smell of the lamp. To 
bear the marks of great study, but not 
enough laboured to conceai the marks 
of labour. The phrase was first applied 
to the orations of Demosthenes, written 
by lamp-light with enormous care. 


Lamp of Heaven (7c). The moon, 
Milton calls the stars ‘‘ lamps.’’ 


“Why shouldst thou... 
In thy dark lantern thus close up the stars, 
That Nature hung in heaven, and filled their 
lamps 
With everlasting oil, to give due light 
To the misled and lonely traveller?” 
Comus, 200—204, 


Lamp of Pheebus (7/ic). The sun. 
Pheebus is the mythological personi- 
fication of the sun. 


Lamp of the Law (76). Irnerius 
the German was so called, who first 
lectured on the Pandects of Justinian 
after their discovery at Amalphi in 1137 


Lamps. The seven lamps of sleep. 
In the mansion of the Knight of the 
Black Castle were seven lamps, which 
could be quenched only with water from 
an enchanted fountain. So long as 
these lamps kept burning, everyone 
within the room fell into a deep sleep, 
from which nothing could rouse them 
till the lamps were extinguished. (See 
Rosana.) (The Seven Champions of 
Christendom, 11. 8.) 

Sepulchral lamps. The Romans are 
said to have preserved lamps in some of 
their sepulchres for centuries. In the 
papacy of Paul III. one of these lamps 
was found in the tomb of Tullia (Cicero’s 
daughter), which had been shut up for 
1,550 years, At the dissolution of the 
monasteries a lamp was found which is 
said to have been burning 1,200 years. 
Two are preserved in Leyden museum, 


Lampadion 


Lampad'icn. The received name of 
a lively, petulant courtesan, in the later 
Greek comedy. 


Lampoon. Sir Walter Scott says, 
“These personal and scandalous libels, 
carried to excess in the reign of Charles 
II., acquired the name of lampoons from 
the burden sung to them: ‘ Lampone, 
lampone, camerada lampone ’—Guzzler, 
guzzler, my fellow guzzler.’? (French, 
lamper, to guzzle.) Sir Walter obtained 
his information from Trevoux. 


Lampos and Pha’eton. The two 
steeds of Auro’ra, One of Actzon’s 
dogs was called Lampos. 


Lancashire Las or “ The Lanca- 
shire.” The 47th Foot. Now called 
the First Battalion of the North Lan- 
cashire Regiment. 


Lancaster. The camp-town on the 
river Lune. 


Lancaster Gun. A species of rifled 
cannon with elliptical bore; so called 
from Mr, Lancaster, its inventor. 


Lancaster'ian (4). One who pur- 
sues the system of Joseph Lancaster 
(1778-1838) in schools. By this system 
the higher classes taught the lower. 


Lancastrian (4). An adherent of 
the Lancastrian line of kings, as opposed 
to the Yorkists. One of the Lancastrian 
kings (Henry IV., V., VI.). 


Lance (1 syl.), in Christian art, is an 
attribute of St. Matthew and St. Thomas, 
the apostles ; also of St. Longi’nus, St. 
George, St. Adalbert, St. Oswin, St. 
Barbara, St. Michael, St. Dome’trius, 
and several others. 

Astolpho had a lance of gold that with 
enchanted force dismounted everyone it 
touched. (Orlando Furioso, bk. ix.) 

A free-lance. One who acts on his 
own judgment, and not from party 
motives. The reference is to the Free 
Companies of the Middle Ages, called in 
Italy condottieri, and in France Coi- 
pagnies Grandes, which were free to act 
as they liked, and were not servants of 
the Crown or of any other potentate, It 
must be confessed, however, that they 
were willing to sell themselves to any 
master and any cause, good or bad. 


Lance-Corporal and lLance-Ser- 
geant. One from theranks temporarily 
acting as corporal or sergeant. In the 
Middle Ages a dance meant a soldier. 


Lance-Knight. A foot-soldier; a 
corruption of dasquenct or lancequenct, 
a German foot-soldier, 


726 Lancelot 


Lance of the Ladies. At the ter- 
mination of every joust a course was 
run ‘‘ pour les dames,’ and called the 
‘* Lance of the Ladies.” 


Lan'celot (Six). ‘The chief of 
knights’? and ‘darling of the court.’’ 
Elaine, the lily of Astolat, fell in love 
with him, but he returned not her love, 
and she died. (See ἘΠ ΑΙΝῈ.) (Tennyson: 
Idylls of the King ; Elaine.) 


Lancelot or Launcelot Gobbo. 
Shylock’s servant, famous for his solilo- 
quy whether or not he should run away 
from his master. (Shakespeare: Mer- 
chant of Venice.) 


Lan’celot du Lac. One of the ear- 
liest romances of the ‘‘ Round Table” 
(1494). Sir Lancelot was the son of 
King Ban of Benwicke, but was stolen 
in infancy by Vivienne, called ‘* La 
Dame du Lac,” who dwelt ‘‘ en la marche 
de la petite Bretaigne ;’’ she plunged 
with the babe into the lake, and when 
her protégé was grown into man’s estate, 
presented him to King Arthur. The 
lake referred to was a sort of enchanted 
delusion to conceal her demesnes. Hence 
the cognomen of du Lac given to the 
knight. Sir Lancelot goes in search 
of the Grail or holy cup brought to 
Britain by Joseph of Arimathe’a, and 
twice caught sight of it. (See GRAAL.) 
Though always represented in the 
Arthurian romances as the model of 
chivalry, Sir Lancelot was the adul- 
terous lover of Guinevere, wife of King 
Arthur, his friend. At the close of his 
life the adulterous knight became a 
hermit, and died in the odour of sanctity. 

Sir Lancelot is meant for a model of fidelity, 
bravery, frailty in love, and repentance; Sir 
Galahad of chastity; Sir Gawain of courtesy ; 
Sir Kay of a rude, boastful knight; and Sir 
Modred of treachery. 

Sir Lancelot du Lac and Tarquin. Six 
Lancelot, seeking some adventure, met 
a lady who requested him to deliver 
certain Knights of the Round Table 
from the power of Tarquin. Coming to 
a river, he saw a copper basin suspended 
to a tree, and struck at it so hard that 
the basin broke. This brought out 
Tarquin, when a furious encounter took 
place, in which Tarquin was slain, and 
Sir Lancelot liberated from durance 
‘“threescore knights and four, all of the 
Table Round.” (Percy: Reliques, οἷα.» 
bk. ii. series 1.) 

Lancelot of the Laik. A Scottish me- 
trical romance, taken from the French 
roman called Lancelot du Lac. Galiot, 
a neighbouring king, invades Arthur's 


Tiancers 


territory, and captures the castle of Lady 
Melyhalt among others. Sir Lancelot 
goes to chastise Galiot, sees Queen Gui- 
nevere and falls in love with her. Sir 
Gawayne is wounded in the war, and 
Sir Lancelot taken prisoner. In the 
French romance, Sir Lancelot makes 
Galiot submit to Arthur, but the Scotch 
romance terminates with the capture of 
the knight. 


Lancers (7c). The dance so called 
was introduced into Paris in 1836, It is 
in imitation of a military dance in which 
men used lances. 


Land. Sve how the land lies. See 
what we have to do; see in what state 
matters are. See in what state the land 
is that we have to travel or pass over, or 
in what direction we must go. Joshua 
sent spies (ii. 1) ‘*to view the land”’ 
before he attempted to pass the Jordan. 

“Put your blankets down there, boys,and turn 
in. Youll see how the land lies in the morning.” 
—Boldrewood : Robbery under Arms, ch, xi. 

Land-damn. A corruption of /andan 
(to rate or reprove severely). According 
to Dean Milles the word is still used in 


Gloucestershire. 

“You are abused ... would I knew the villain, 
Τ would land-damn him.”—Shakespeare: Winter's 
Tale, ii. 1. 

Land-loupers. Persons who fly the 


country for crime or debt. Louper, 
loper, loafer, and luffer are varieties of 
the German /dufer, a vagrant, a runner. 


Land-lubber. An awkward or inex- 
pert sailor on board ship. (Lubber, the 
Welsh //od, a dunce.) 


Land of Beulah (Isa. Ixii. 4). 
In Pilgrim’s Progress it is that land 
of heavenly joy where the pilgrims tarry 
till they are summoned to enter the 
Celestial City ; the Paradise before the 
resurrection. 


Land of Bondage. Egypt was so 
called by the Jews, who were bondsmen 
there to the Pharaohs ‘‘ who knew not 
Joseph.”’ 


Land of Cakes. Scotland, famous 
for its oatmeal cakes. 


Land of Myrrh. Azab or Saba. 


Land of Nod (7ic). To go to the 
land of Nod is to go to bed. There are 
many similar puus, and more in French 
than in English. Of course, the refer- 
ence is to Gen. iv. 16, ‘‘Cain went... 
and dwelt in the land of Nod;” but 
where the land of Nod is or was nobody 
knows. In fact, ‘‘Nod’? means a 
vagrant or vagabond, and when Cain 


727 Lane 


was driven out he lived ‘‘ a vagrant life,”’ 
with no fixed abode, till he built his 
“‘city.”? (See NEEDHAM.) 

Land of Promise. Canaan, the land 
which God promised to give to Abraham 
for his obedience. 

Land of Shadows (Gove to the). 
Fallen asleep. Shadows = dreams, or 
shadows of realities. 


Land of Stars and Stripes (776). 


The United States of America. The 
reference is to their national flag. 
Land o’ the Leal (Zhe). The Scotch 


Dixey Land (7.v.). An hypothetical land 
of happiness, loyalty, and virtue. Caro- 
line Oliphant, Baroness Nairne, meant 
heaven in her exquisite song so called, 
and this is now its accepted meaning. 
(Leal = faithful, and ‘ Land of the 
Leal’’ means the Land of the faithful. ) 


Landau’. A four-wheeled carriage, 
the top of which may be thrown back ; 
invented at Landau, in Germany. 


Landey’da. (Sze RAVEN.) 


Landiére (/vench, 3 syl.). A booth 
in a fair; so called from Le Landit, a 
famous fair at one time held at St. Denis. 
Landit means a small present such as 
one receives from a fair. 


“Ii gambadoit, il faisoit le hadin ; : 
Oncy’on ne vit ung plus parfait landin.” 


Biurdigné : Légende, c. iii. 
“Mercure avec d’'avides mains... 
Met impost et taxes nouvelles... 


Sur les Jandis, sur les estrennes.” 
1. Chamhoudry : Le Voyage de Mercure, 
DK. ii., p. 51 (1653). 


Landscape (4) is a land picture. 
(Anglo-Saxon landscipe, verb scap-an, 
to shape, to give a form or picture of.) 

Father of landscape gardening. A. 
Lenotre (1613-1700). 


Lane. No evil thing that walks by 
night, blue meagre hag, or stubborn un- 
laid ghost, no goblin, or smart fairy of 
the mine, has power to crossa lane ; once 
in a lane, the spirit of evil is in a fix. 
The reason is obvious: a lane is a spur 
from a main road, and therefore forms 
with it a sort of T, quite near enough to 
the shape of a cross to arrest such simple 
folk of the unseen world as care to 
trouble the peaceful inmates of the 
world we live in. 


Lane. ’Tis a long lane that has no 
turning. Every calamity hasan ending. 
The darkest day, stop till to-morrow, will 
have passed away. 


“ Hope peeps from a cloud on our squad, 
Whose beams have been long in deep mourning ; 
‘Tis a lane. let me tell you, my lad, 
Very long that has nevera turning.” 

Peter Pindar: Great Cry and Little Wool, epist.1, 


Lane 


Lane (Zhe) and The Garden. A 
short. way of saying ‘‘ Drury Lane”’ and 
‘“‘Covent Garden,’’ which are two 
theatres in London, 


Lane, of King’s Bromley Manor, 
Staffordshire, bears in a canton “the 
Arms of England.”? This honour was 
granted to Colonel John Lane, for 
conducting Charles II. to his father’s 
seat after the battle of Worcester. (See 
next paragraph.) 

Jane Lane, daughter of Thomas and 
sister of Colonel John. ΤῸ save the 
King after the battle of Worcester, she 
rode behind him from Bentley, in 
Staffordshire, the ancient seat of the 
Lanes, to the house of her cousin, Mrs. 
Norton, near Bristol. For this act of 
loyalty the king granted the family to 
have the following crest : A strawberry- 
roan horse saliant (couped at the flank), 
bridled, bitted, and garnished, support- 
ing between its feet a royal crown 
proper ; motto, Garde le Roy. 


Lanfu’sa’s Son. (Sce FERRAU’.) 


Lang Syne (Scotch, long since). In 
the olden time, in days gone by. 

“There was muckle fighting about the place 
lang-syne.”—Scott : Guy Mannering, chap. x1: 

The song called Auld Lang Syne, usu- 
ally attributed to Robert Burns, was not 
composed by him, for he says expressly 
in a letter to Thomson, ‘It is the old 
song of the olden times, which has never 
been in print. I took it down 
from an old man’s singing.” In another 
letter he says, ‘‘ Light be the turf on the 
heaven-inspired poet who composed this 
glorious fragment.’? Nothing whatever 
is known of the author of the words ; 
the composer is wholly unknown. 


Langbourn Ward (London). So 
called from the long bourn or rivulet of 
sweet water which formerly broke out 
of a spring near Magpye Alley. This 
bourn gives its name to Sharebourne or 
Southbourne Lane. 


Langstaff (Launcelot). The name 
under which Salmagundi was pub- 
lished, the real authors being Washing- 
ton Irving, William Irving, and J. K. 
Paulding. 

Language. Zhe primeval language. 
Psammetichos, an Egyptian king, en- 
trusted two new-born infants to a 
shepherd, with strict charge that they 
were never to hear any one utter a word. 
These children were afterwards brought 
before the king and uttered the word 
bekos (baked bread). The same experi- 
ment was tried by Frederick LU. of 


728 Lantern Jaws 


Sweden, James IY. of Scotland, and one 
of the Mogul emperors of India. 
_dJames_IV., in the 15th century, shut up two 
infant children in the Isle of Inchkeith, with a 
dumb attendant to wait on them. 

The three primitive languages. The 
Persians say that Arabic, Persian, and 
Turkish are three primitive languages. 
The serpent that seduced Eve spoke 
Arabic, the most suasive language in the 
world ; Adam and Eve spoke Persian, 
the most poetic of all languages; and 
the angel Gabriel spoke ‘Turkish, the 
most menacing of all languages. 
(Chardin.) 

“ Language given to men to conceal their 
thoughts,’ is by Montrond, but is gener- 
ally fathered on Talleyrand. 

Characteristics of European languages : 

L’Italien se parle aux dames. 

Le Fran¢ais se parle aux hommes. 

L’ Anglais se parle aux oiseaux. 

1, Allemand se parle aux chevaux, 

L’Espagnol se parle a Dieux. 


*t English, according to the Freuch 
notion, is both singsong and sibilant. 

Charles Quint used to say, “I speak German to 
my horses, Spanish to my God, French to my 
friends, and Italian tu ny mistresses,” 

Langue d’Oc. The Provencal branch 
of the Gallo-Romaic idiom; so called 
from their οὐ (yes). 


Langue @’Oil. Walloon or German- 
ised Gallo-Romaic; so called from their 
pronouncing our yes as οὐ (o-e). These 
Gauls lived north of the Loire; the Pro- 
vencals dwelt south of that river. 


Languish (/ydia). A young lady 
of romantic notions in Zhe Ltivals, a 
play by Sheridan. 

Lantern. In Christian art, the attri- 
bute of St. Gudule and St. Hugh, 

The feast of lanterns. Tradition says 
that the daughter of a famous mandarin, 
walking alone by a lake one evening, 
fell in. The father called together his 
neighbours, and all went with lanterns 
to look for her, and happily she was 
rescued. In commemoration thereof an 
annual festival was held on the spot, 
and grew in time to the celebrated 
‘‘feast of lanterns.’’? (Present State of 


China.) 
A la lanterne. Wang him with the 
lantern orlampropes. A cry and custom 


introduced in the French revolution. 


Lantern Jaws. Cheeks so thin that 
one may see daylight through them, as 
light shows through the horn of a 
lantern. In French, ‘‘ wn visage si maigre 
que si on mettait une bougie allumée dans 


Lantern-Land 


la bouche, la lumiére paraitait au travers 
des joues.”’ 
- Lantern-jawed. Having lantern-jaws. 


Lantern-Land. The land of literary 
charlatans, whose inhabitants are gra- 
duates in arts, doctors, professors, pre- 
lates, andsoon. (Ltabelais: Pantagruel, 
ν. 33.) (See Crry or LANTERNS.) 


Lanterns. Authors, literary men, 
an l other inmates of Lantern-land (¢.v.). 
Rabelais so calls the prelates and divines 
of the Council of Trent, who wasted the 
time in great displays of learning, to 
little profit ; hence ‘‘ lanternise’’ (q.v.). 


Lanternise. Spending one’s time in 
learned trifles; darkening counsel by 
words ; mystifying the more by attempt- 
ing to unravel mysteries ; putting truths 
into a lantern through which, at best, 
we see but darkly. When monks bring 
their hoods over their faces ‘‘ to medi- 
tate,’’ they are said by the French to 
lanternise, because they look like the tops 
of lanterns; but the result of their 
m2ditations is that of a ‘* brown study,”’ 
or ‘‘ fog of sleepy thought.’’ (Sve above.) 


Laocoon [La-ok'-0-on]. A son of 
Priam, famous for the tragic fate of him- 
self and his two sons, who were crushed 
to death by serpents. The group repre- 
senting these three in their death agony, 
now in the Vatican, was discovered in 
1596, on the Esquiline Hill (Rome). It 
is a single block of marble, and was the 
work of Agesander of Rhodes and two 
other sculptors. Thomson has described 
the group in his Liberty, pt. iv. (Virgil: 
Aineid, ii. 40 ete., 212 ete.) 

“The miserable sire, 
Wrapped with bis sons in Fate’s severest grasp.” 

Laodami'a. The wife of Protesila’os, 
who was slain before Troy. She begged 
to be allowed to converse with her dead 
husband for only three hours, and her 
reyuest was granted; when the respite 
was over, she accompanied the dead hero 
to the shades of death. Wordsworth 
ha3 a poem on the subject. 


Laodice’an. One indifferent to re- 
ligion, caring little or nothing about the 
mutter, like the Christians of that church, 
mentioned in the Book of Revelation 
(chapter ili. 14-18). 


Lapet (Mons.). The beau-ideal of 
poltroonery. He would think the world 
out of joint if no one gave him a tweak 
of the nose or lug of the ear. (Bean- 
mont and Fletcher : Nice Valor, or the 
Passionate Madman.) 


Mons, Lanet was the author of a book on the 
punctilios of duclling, = 


729 


Lar Familiaris 


Lap'ithe. A people of Thessaly, 
noted for their defeat of the Centaurs. 
The subject of this contest was repre- 
sented on the Parthénon, the Theseum 
at Athens, the Temple of Apollo at 
Basso, and on numberless vases. Raphael 
painted a picture of the same subject. 
(Classie mythology.) 


Lapping Water. When Gideon’s 
army was too numerous, the men were 
taken to a stream to drink, and 300 of 
them lapped water with their tongue ; 
all the rest supped it up (Judg. vii. 4-7). 
All carnivorous animals lap water like 
dogs, all herbivorous animals suck it up 
like horses. The presumption is that 
the lappers of water partook of the 
carnivorous character, and were more 
fit for military exploits. No doubt those 
who fell on their knees to drink exposed 
themselves to danger far more than those 
who stood on their feet and lapped water 
from their hands. 


Laprel. The rabbit, in the tale 
of Reynard the Fox. (French, lapin, 
rabbit.) : 


Lapsus Linguz (Jatin). A slip of 
the tongue, a mistake in uttering a 
word, an imprudent word inadvertently 
spoken. 

We have also adopted the Latin phrases lupsus 
calami (a slip of the pen), aud lupsus menwrue (a 
slip of the memory). 

Laputa. The flying island inhabitel 
by scientific quacks, and visited by Gul- 
liver in his ‘‘travels.”’ These dreamy 
philosophers were so absorbed in their 
speculations that they employed atten- 
dants called ‘‘ flappers,’’ to flap them on 
the mouth and ears with a blown bladder 
when their attention was to be called off 
from ‘‘ high things”? to vulgar mundane 
matters. (Swift.) 

“Realising ina manner the dreams of Laputa, 
and endeavouring to extract sun}eains from cu- 
cumbers,.”"—De Quincy. 

Lapwing (762). Shakespeare refers 
to two peculiarities of this bird; (1) to 
allure persons from its nest, it flies away 
and cries loudest when farthest from its 
nest ; and (2) the young birds run from 
their shells with part thereof still sticking 
to their head. 

“Far from her nest the lapwing cr’es away.” 

Comedy of Errors, iv. 2. 

“This Japwing runs away with the shell on 
his head.’’—Hamilet, ν. 2. 

Lar Familia’'ris (plu. Lares famili- 
ares). The familiar lar was the spirit of 
the founder of the house, which never 
left it, but accompanied his descendants 
in all their changes, (See LARES.) 


‘ara 


La’ra. The name assumed by Lord 
Conrad, the Corsair, after the death of 
Medo’ra. He returned to his native 
land, and was one day recognised by Sir 
Ezzelin at the table of Lord Otho. 
Ezzelin charged him home, and a duel 
was arranged for the day following ; but 
Ezzelin was never heard of more. In time 
Lara headed arebellion, and was shot by 
Lord Otho, the leader of the other party. 
(Byron: Lara.) (See CONRAD.) 

The seven infants of Lara. Gonzales 
Gustios de Salas de Lara, a Castilian hero 
of the eleventh century, had seven sons. 
His brother, Rodri'go Velasquez, married 
a Moorish lady, and these seven nephews 
were invited to the feast. A fray took 
place in which one of the seven slew 
a Moor, and the bride demanded ven- 
geance. Rodri’go, to please his bride, 
waylaid his brother Gonzales, and kept 
him in durance in a dungeon of Cor’- 
dova, and the seven boys were betrayed 
into a ravine, where they were cruelly 
murdered. While in the dungeon, 
Zaida, daughter of the Moorish king, 
fell in love with Gonzales, and became 
the mother of Mudarra, who avenged 
the death of Lara’s seven sons by slay- 
ing Rodrigo. 


Larboard, now called port (qg.v.). 
(Starboard is from Anglo-Saxon steora- 
bord, the steer-board, or right side of a 
ship.) Larboard is the French ddbord, the 
left-hand side of a ship looking towards 
the prow; Anglo-Saxon dec-bord. 

“ She gave a heel, and then a lurch to port, 
And going down head foremost—sunk in short.” 
Byron: Don Juan (The Shipwreck). 
~ “To give a heel’”’ is to sway over 
on one side. Here it meaus a heel to 
the starboard side. 


Larceny. Petty theft, means really 
the peculations and thefts of a mercen- 
ary. (Greek lation, hire [/atris, a hire- 
ling]; Latin Zatvro, a mercenary, whence 
latrocinium ; French, larcin.) 


Larder. A place for keeping lard or 
bacon. This shows that swine were the 
chief animals salted and preserved in 
olden times. (Latin, /ardum, lard.) 

The Douglas Larder, The English 
garrison and all its provisions in Douglas 
castle massed together by good Lord 
James Douglas, in 1307. 

“He caused all the barrels containing flour, 
meat, wheat, and malt to be knocked in pieces, 
and their contents mixed on the floor ; then he 
staved the great hogsheads of wine and ale, and 
mixed the liquor with the stores ; and last of all, 
he killed the prisoners, and flung the dead bodies 
among this disgusting heap, which his men called, 
in derision of the English, ‘The Douglas Larder.’” 
—Sir Walter Scott; Tales of a Grandfather, ix, 


730 ; Larks 


Wallace’s Larder is very similar. It 
consisted of the dead bodies of the gar- 
rison of Ardrossan, in Ayrshire, cast 
into the dungeon keep. The castle was 
surprised by Wallace in the reign of 
Edward I. 

Lares. The Etruscan /a (lord or 
hero). Among the Romans larés were 
either domestic or public. Domestic 
lares were the souls of virtuous ancestors 
exalted to the rank of protectors. Public 
lares were the protectors of roads and 
streets. Domestic lares were images, 
like dogs, set behind the ‘‘ hall’’ door, or 
in the lara’rium or shrine. Wicked souls 
became lem’‘urés or ghosts that made 
night hideous. Pena’tés were the natural 
powers personified, and their office was 
to bring wealth and plenty, rather than 
to protect and avert danger. (See Farry.) 


Large. 170 sail large is to sail on a 
large wind—i.e. with the wind not 
straight astern, but what sailors call 
“‘abaft the beam.”’ 

Set at large, i.e. at liberty. It is a 
French phrase; prendre le large is to 
stand out at sea, or occupy the main 
ocean, so as to be free to move. Simi- 
larly, to be set at large is to be placed 
free in the wide world. 


Lar'igot. Botre a tire larvigot. To 
tope, to bouse. JLavigot is a corruption 
of * ?arigot”’ (a limb), and boire a tire 
Varigot means simply ‘‘ to drink with all 
your might,’ as jouer de ’arigot means 
‘*to play your best’’—i.e. ‘‘with all 
your power.’’ It is absurd to derive the 
word /arigot from ‘‘la Rigaud,” ac- 
cording to Noel Taillepied, who says 
(Rouen, xlv.): ‘‘Au _ xiii.  siécle, 
V’archeveque Eudes Rigaud fit présent a 
la ville de Rouen d’une cloche a laquelle 
resta son nom. Cette cloche était d'une 


- grandeur et d’une grosseur, telles que 


ceux quila mettaient en mouvement ne 
manquaient pas de boire abondamment 
pour reprendre des forces. De Ἰὰ Vhabi- 
tude de comparer ceux qui buvaient 
beaucoup aux sonneurs chargés de tirer 
la Rigaud,” 1.6. the bell so called, 


Lark. A spree; a corruption of the 
Anglo-Saxon /ac (play, fun). (See Sxy- 
LARK.) 


Larks. When the sky falls we shail 
catch larks. A way of stating to a per- 
son that his scheme or proposal is absurd 
or ridiculous. 


French: “Si le ciel tombait, il y aurait bien des 
alouettes.” 

Latin: “Quid, si redio ad illos, qui aiunt, quid 
si nune ccelum ruat ?” 

Terence: Heautontimoroumenos, iy. 3; verse 41 


Larry 


731 


Lath 


Larry Dugan’s Eye-water. Black- 
ing; so called from Larry Dugan, a 
noted shoeblack of Dublin, whose face 
was always smudged with his blacking. 


Lars. The overking of the ancient 
Etruscans, like the Welsh ‘‘ pendragon.”’ 
A satrap, or under-king, was a lucimo, 
Thus the king of Prussia is the German 
lars, and the king of Bavaria is a 
ducumo. 


There be thirty chosen prophets, 
The wisest of the land, 
Wh» always by Lars Por’sena, 
Both morn and evening stand.” 
Macaulay : Lays of Ancient Rome, 
" (Horatius, ix.) 


Larvez. Mischievous spectres. The 
larva or ghost of Caligula was often seen 
(according to Suetonius) in his palace. 


Lascar. A native East Indian sailor 
in the British service. 
the East Indies call camp-followers 
lasears. (Hindu, lash-kay, a soldier.) 


Last. (Anglo-Saxon /ast, a yeh yee 
a shoemaker’s last.) Zhe cobbler should 


stick to his last (** Ne sutor ultra crep’- | 


idam’’). Apelles haying executed a 
famous painting, exposed it to public 
view, when a cobbler found fault be- 
cause the painter had made too few 
latchets to the goloshes. Apelles 
amended the fault, and set out his 
picture again. Next day the cobbler 
complained of the legs, when Apelles 
retorted, ‘‘ Keep to the shop, friend, but 
do not attempt to criticise what you do 
not understand.’’ (See W1Gs.) 


Last Man (7ie). Charles I. was so 


called by the Parliamentarians, meaning | 


that he would be the last king of Great 
Britain. His son, Charles I1., was called 
The Son of the Last Man. 


Last Man. A weirdly grotesque 
poem by Thomas Hood. 


“So there he hung, and there I stood, 
The last man left alive.” 


Last Words. (Sce DyInG SayIncs.) 


Last of the Fathers. St. Bernard, 
Abbot of Clairvaux. (1091-1153.) 


Last of the Goths. Roderick, who | 


reigned in Spain from 414 to 711. 
Southey 
verse on this subject. 
Last of the Greeks. Philopcemen 
of Arcadia, (B.C. 253-183.) 
Last of the Knights. 
KNIGHTS.) 


Last of the Mo’hicans. The Indian 
chief, Uncas, is so called by Cooper, in 
his novel of that title, 


The natives of | 


has an historic tale in blank | 


(See | 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


Last of the Romans. 

Marcus Junius Brutus, one of the 
murderers of Cesar. (Rp.c. 85-42.) 

Caius Cassius Longi'nus, so called by 
Brutus. (Died B.c. 42.) 

Stilicho, the Roman general under 
Theodosius. (Zhe Nineteenth Century, 
Sepember, 1892.) 

Aétius, a general who defended the 
Gauls against the Franks and other 
barbarians, and defeated Attila in the 
Champs Catalaumques, near Cliilons, in 
451. So called by Proco’pius. 

Fran¢ois Joseph Terasse Desbillons; so 
called from the elegance and purity of 
his Latin. (1751-1789.) 

Pope calls Congreve U/timus Roman- 
orum, (1670-1729.) (See Untrtus.) 


Last of the Tribunes (7c). Cola 
di Rienzi (1314 - 1354), Lord Lytton 
has a novel so called. 


Last of the Troubadours. Jacques 
Jasmin, of Gascony (1798-1854). 

Lat (Z/). A female idol made of 
stone, and said to be inspired with life ; 
the chief object of adoration by the 
Arabs before their conversion, 

Lat, at Somanat in India, was a single 
stone fifty fathoms high, placed in the 
midst of a temple supported by fifty-six 
pillars of massive gold. This idol was 
broken in pieces by Mahmood Ibn- 
Sabuktigeen, who conquered that part 
of India. The granite Lat, facing a 
Jain temple at Mudubidery, near Man- 
galore, in India, is fifty-two feet high. 

“The granite lat of Mudubidery, in India, is 
fifty-two feet high.” 

Lateran. The ancient palace of the 
Latera‘ni, given by the Emperor Con- 
stantine to the popes. Lateran, from 
lateo, to hide, and rana, a frog. It is 
said that Nero . . on one occasion 
vomited a frog covered with blood, which 
he believed to be his own progeny, and 
had it hidden in a vault. The palace 
which was built on the site of this vault 
was called the ‘‘ Lateran,” or the palace 
of the hidden frog. (Buckle: History of 
Civilisation.) 

The locality in Rome so called contains the 
Lateran palace, the Piazza, and the Basilica of 
St. John Lateran. The Basilica is the Pope's 
cathedral church. The palace (once a residence 
of the popes) is now a museum, 

Lath or Lathe. A division of a 
county. Sometimes it was an interme- 
diate division between a hundred and a 
shire, as the lathes of Kent and rapes of 
Sussex, each of which contained three 
or four ‘‘ hundreds ”’ apiece. In Ireland 
the arrangement was different, The 


Lather 


officer over a lath was called a lathreeve. 
(Anglo-Saxon /@éh, a canton.) 

“Tf all that tything failed, then all that lath 
was charzed for that tything ; and if the lath 
failed, then all that hundred was demanded for 
them [i.e. turbulent fellows], and if the hundred, 
then the shire.—Spenser : dreland. 

Lather. A good lather is half ashave. 
This is the French proverb, ‘‘ Barbe bien 
savonné est a moitié faite.” 


Latin. The language spoken by the 
people of La’tium, m Italy. The Latins 
are called aborigines of Italy. Alba 
Longa was head of the Latin League, 
and, as Rome was a colony of Alba 
Longa, it is plain to see how the Roman 
tongue was Latin. 

“The earliest extant specimen of the Latin lan- 
guage is a fragment of the hymn of the Fratres 
Arvales (3syl.), a priestly brotherhood, which of- 
fered, every 10th of May,a public sacrifice for the 
fertility of the flelds.”"—Sellar ; Roman Poets of the 
Republic, chap. ii. p. 34. 

Classical Latin. The Latin of the best 
authors about the time of Augustus, as 
Livy,Tacitus, and Cicero (prose), Horace, 
Virgil, and Ovid (poets). 

Late Latin. The period which fol- 
lowed the Augustan age. This period 
contains the Church Fathers. 

Low Latin. Medieval Latin, mainly 
bastard German, French, Italian,Spanish, 
and so on. 

Middle Latin. atin from the sixth 
to the sixteenth century A.D., both in- 
clusive. In this Latin, prepositions fre- 
quently supply the cases of nouns. 

New Latin, That which followed the 
revival of letters in the sixteenth cen- 
tury. 

“Latium. The tale is that this word is from 


lateo, to lie hid, and was so called because Saturn 
lay hid there, when he was driven out of Leayen 


by the gods.” 

The Latin Church. The Western 
Church, in contradistinction to the 
Greek or Eastern Church. 

The Latin cross. Formed thus: + 

** The Greek cross has four equal 
arms, thus: + 


Latin Learning, properly so called. 
terminated with Boe’thius, but continued 
to be used in literary compositions and 
in the services of the church. 


Lati‘nus. King of the Laurentians, 
a people of Latium. According to Virgil, 
Latinus opposed Ainéas on his first land- 
ing, but subsequently formed an alliance 
with him, and gave him Lavinia in mar- 
riage. 'Turnus, King of the Ru’tuli, de- 
clared that Lavinia had been betrothed 
to him, and prepared to support his 
claim by arms. It was agreed to decide 
the rival claims by single combat, and 


7 


32 


Laugh 


/Ene’as being victor, obtained Lavinia 
for his wife. 

Lati'nus (in Jerusalem Delivered), an 
Italian, went with his five sons to the 
Holy War. His eldest son was slain by 
Solyman; Aramantés, going to his bro- 
ther’s aid, was also slain; then Sabi’nus ; 
and lastly, Picus and Laurentés, twins, 
The father now rushed on the soldan, 
and was slain also. In one hour the 
father and his five sons were all slain. 


Latitudina’rians. A sect of divines 
in the time of Charles II., opposed both 
to the High Church party and to the 
Puritans. The term is now applied to 
those persons who hold very loose views 
of Divine inspiration and what are called 
orthodox doctrines. 


Lato’na. Mother of Apollo and 
Diana, When she knelt by a fountain 
in Delos (infants in arms) to quench her 
thirst at asmall lake, some Lycian clowns 
insulted her and were turned into frogs, 
“ As when those hinds that were transformed to 

ἘΠ ΠΝ at Latona’s twin-born progeny, 

Which after held the sun and moon in fee.” 

Milton: Sonnets, 

Latri‘a and Dulia. Greek words 
adopted by the Roman Catholies ; the 
former to express that supreme reverence 
and adoration which is offered to God 
alone; and the latter, that secondary 
reverence and adoration which is offered 
to saints. (Zatria is the reverence of a 
latris, or hired servant, who receives 
wages; dulia is the reverence of a 
doulos or slave.) 


Lattice or Chequers. A public- 
house sign, the arms of Fitzwarren, the 
head of which house, in the days of the 
Henrys, was invested with the power of 
licensing the establishments of vintners 
and publicans. Houses licensed notified 
the same by displaying the Fitzwarren 
arms. (Zhe Times, April 29, 1869.) 

The Fitzwarren arms were chequy or 
and gules, hence public-houses and their 
signs are still frequently called the ‘‘ Red 
Lattices.’’ 

“ A’ calls me e’en now, my lord, through a red 
lattice."—Shakespeare : 2 Henry IV., 11. 2. 

Laugh in One's Sleeve (70). The 
French is: ‘‘ Rive sous cape,” or “ Rire 
sous son bonnet.”? The German is: ‘ Ins 
faistchen lachen.”? The Latin is: “ In 
stomacho vidére.”? These expressions 
indicate secret derision ; laughing az one, 
not with one. But such phrases as ‘‘ Jn 
sinu gaudére’’ mean to feel secret joy, to 
rejoice in one’s heart of hearts, 


Laugh 


33 Laurel 


eee 


Laugh on the Other Side of* Your 
Mouth. To make a person laugh on 
the other side of his mouth is to make 
him ery, or to cause him annoyance. To 
‘‘laugh on the wrong side of one’s face”’ 
is to be humiliated, or to lament from 
annoyance. 

“Thou laughest there: by-and-by thov wilt 
laugh on the wrong side of thy face.'—Carlyle: 
The Diamond Necklace, chap. iit. 

Laughing Philosopher. Democ’ritos 
of Abde’ra, who viewed with supreme 
contempt the feeble powers of man. 
(B.c. 460-357.) (See WEEPING PHILO- 
SOPHER. ) 


Laughing-stock. A butt for jokes. 


Laughter. We are told that Jupiter, 
after his birth, laughed incessantly for 
seven days. 

Calchas, the Homeric soothsayer, died 
of laughter. The tale is that a fellow in 
rags told him he would never drink of 
the grapes growing in his vineyard, and 
added, if his words did not come true he 
would be the soothsayer’s slave. When 
the wine was made, Calchas, at a great 
feast, sent for the fellow, and laughed 
so incessantly at the non-fulfilment of 
the prophecy that he died. (2, Bulwer 
Lytton: Tales of Miletus, iv.) 

“ (See Ancwus and DEATH FROM 
STRANGE CAUSES.) 


Launce. The clownish serving-man 
of Proteus, famous for his soliloquies to 
his dog Crab. (Shakespeare: Two Gentle- 
men of Verona.) 


Launcelet. (Sve LANCELOT.) 
Launched into Eternity. Hanged. 


“He ate several oranges on his passage, in- 
pag if his lordship was ready, and then, as old 

owe used to say, ‘ was launched into eternity.’— 
Gilly Williams to Lord Harrington. (This man 
was his lordship’s servant, hanged for robbery.) 


Launfal (Sir). Steward of King 
Arthur. He so greatly disliked Queen 
Gwennere, daughter of Ryon, King of 
Treland, that he feigned illness and 
retired to Carlyoun, where he lived in 
great poverty. Having obtained the 
loan of a horse, he rode into a forest, and 
while he rested himself on the grass two 
damsels came to him, who invited him 
to rest in their lady’s bower hard by. 
Sir Launfal accepted the invitation, and 
fell in love with the lady, whose name 
was Tryamour. Tryamour gave the 
knight an unfailing purse, and when he 
left told him if he ever wished to see her 
all he had to do was to retire into a 

rivate room, and she would instantly 
with him. Sir Launfal now returned 
to court, and excited much attention by 


his great wealth ; but having told Gwen- 
nere, who solicited his love, that she was 
not worthy to kiss the feet of his lady- 
love, the queen accused him to Arthur of 
insulting her person. Thereupon Arthur 
told him, unless he made good his word 
by producing this paragon of women, he 
should be burned alive. On the day 
appointed, Tryamour arrived; Launfal 
was set at liberty and accompanied his 
mistress to the isle of Ole’ron, and no 
man ever saw him more. (Zhomas 
Chester: Sir Launfal, a metrical γ0- 
mance of Henry VI.’s time.) 


Laura, the name immortalised by 
Petrarch, was either the wife of Hugues 
de Sade, of Avignon, or a fictitious name 
used by him on which to hang incidents 
of his life and love. If the former, her 
maiden name was Laura de Noves. 


Laura. Beppo’s wife. (See Berro.) 


Lauras. (Greek, Jawa.) An aggre- 
gation of separate cells under the control 
of asuperior. In monasteries the monks 
live under one roof; in lauras they live 
each in his own cell apart; but on certain 
oceasions they assemble and meet to- 
gether, sometimes for a meal, and some- 
times for a religious service. 


Laureate. Poets so called from an 
ancient custom in our universities of 
presenting a laurel wreath to graduates 
inrhetoric and poetry. Young aspirants 
were wreathed with laurels in berry (orné 
de baies de laurier). Authors are still so 
‘crowned’? in France. The poets 
laureate of the two last centuries have 
been— 


Ben Jonson, 1615, appointed by King James. 

Sir William Davenant. 1637, 

John Dryden, 1670. 

Thomas Shadwell, 1688, 

Nahum Tate, 1692. 

Nicholas Rowe, 1715. 

Laurence Eusden, 1718, 

Colley Cibher, 1720. 

William Whitehead, 1757 

Thomas Warton, 1783. 

Henry James Pye, 1790. 

Robert Southey, 1813. 

William Wordsworth, 1844. 

Alfred Tennyson, 180. - 

Six or seven of these are almost unknown, ani 
their productions are never read by anyone ex- 
cept, perhaps, from curiosity. 


Laurel. The Greeks gave a wreath 
of laurels to the victor in the Pythian 
games, but the victor in the Olympic 
games had a wreath of wild olives. the 
victor in the Neme’an games a wreath of 
green parsley, and the victor in the 
Isthmian games a wreath of dry parsley 
or green pine-leaves. (See Crown.) 

Laurel. The ancients believed that 
laurel communicated the spirit of pro- 
phecy and poetry. Hence the custom 


Latrenceé 


of crowning the pythoness and poets, and 
of putting laurel leaves under one’s pillow 
to acquire imspiration. Another super- 
stition was that the bay laurel was 
antagonistic to the stroke of lightning; 
but Sir Thomas Browne, in his J w/gar 
Ivvrors, tells us that Vicomereatus proves 
from personal knowledge that this is by 
no means true, 


Laurel, in modern times, is a symbol 
of victory and peace. St. Gudule, in 
Christian art, carries a laurel crown. 


Laurence (/yviar). The Franciscan 
friar who undertakes to marry Romeo 
and Juliet. ΤῸ save Juliet from a second 
marriage he gives her a sleeping draught, 
and she is carried to the family vault as 
dead. Romeo finds her there, and be- 
lieving her sleep to be the sleep of death, 
kills himself. On waking, Juliet dis- 
covers Romeo dead at her side, and kills 
herself also. (Shakespeare: Romeo and 
Juliet.) (See LAWRENCE.) 


Lavaine’, Sir (2 syl.). Brother of 
Elaine’, and son of the lord of As‘tolat. 
He accompanied Sir Lancelot when he 
went, incognito, to tilt for the ninth 
diamond. Lavaine is described as young, 
brave, and a true knight. (Tennyson : 
Idylls of the King ; Elaine.) 


Lavatette (Marquis de), a French 
statesman who was condemned to death 
for sending secret despatches to Napo- 
leon, was set at liberty by his wife, who 
took his place in the prison. 

Lord Nithsdale escaped in a similar 
way from the Tower of London. His 
wife disguised him as her maid, and 
with her he passed the sentries and 
made good his escape. 


Lavender. From the Spanish Javan- 
dera (a laundress), the plant used by 
laundresses for scenting linen. The 
botanical name is Lavandula, from the 
Latin /avo, to wash. It is a token of 
affection. 

“ He from his lass him lavender hath sent, 

Showing his love, and doth requital crave ; 

Him rosemary his sweetheart. whose intent 

Is that he should her in remembrance have.” 

Drayton: Eclogue, ix. 

Laid up in lavender—i.e. taken great 
care of, laid away, as women put things 
away in lavender to keep off moths. 
Persons who are in hiding are said to be 
in lavender. The French have the 
phrase ‘‘ Elever dans du coton,’’referring 
to the custom of wrapping up things 
precious in cotton wool. 


“ Je venx que tu sois chez moi, comme dans du 
coton,’—La Muscotte, i. 2, 


734 


Law 


In Latin, 


——— a — 


In lavender. In pawn. 


| pignori opponére. 


“The poor gentleman paies so deare for the 
lavender it is laid up in, that if it lies long at the 
broker's house lie seems to buy his apparel twice.” 
—(reene: Imp. Har. Misc., ν. 405. 

Lavin'ia. Daughter of Lati’nus, be- 
trothed to Turnus, King of the Rutuli. 
When ®néas landed in Italy, Latinus 
made an alliance with the Trojan hero, 
and promised to give him Lavin’ia to 
wife. This brought on a war between 
Turnus and /®néas, which was decided 
by single combat, in which /Enéas was 
victor. (Virgil: Aneid.) 

Lavinia. The daughter of Titus An- 
dron’icus, bride of Bassia’nus, brother 
of the Emperor of Rome. Being grossly 
abused by Chiron and Demetrius, sons 
of Tam’ora, Queen of the Goths, the 
savage wantons cut off her hands and 
pluck out her tongue, that she may not 
reveal their names. Lavinia, guiding a 
stick with her stumps, makes her tale 
known to her father and brothers; 
whereupon Titus murders the two Moor- 
ish princes and serves their heads in a 
pasty to their mother, whom he after- 
wards slays, together with the Emperor 
Saturni‘nus her husband. (Titus An- 
dron’icus, a play published with those of 
Shakespeare.) 

* In the play the word is accented Andren/‘icus 
not Androni’cus, 

Lavinia, Ttaly; 80 called frem 
Lavinia, daughter of Lati’nus and wife 
of ASnéas. /Enéas built a town which 
he called Lavin’ium, capital of La’tium. 

“ From the rich Lavinian shore 
I your market come to store.” 
A well-known Glee. 

Lavin'ia and Palemon. A free 
poetical version of Ruth and Boaz, by 
Thomson in his Awtwnn. 


Lavolt or Lavolta. (French, /a 
volte.) A lively dance, in which was a 
good deal of jumping or capering, whence 
itsname. Troilus says, “1 cannot sing, 
nor heel the high lavolt”’ (iv. 4). It is 
thus described :— 


“A lofty jumping or a leaping round, : 
Wherearminarm two cancers are entwined, 
And whirl themselves with strict embrace- 
ments bound, 
And still their feet an anapest do sound.” 
Sir John Davies. 
Law. 170 give one law, A sporting 
term, meaning the chance of saving one- 
self. Thus a hare or a stag is allowed 
“law ’’—7.e. a certain start before any 
hound is permitted to attack it; and a 
tradesman allowed law is one to whom 
time is given to “ find his legs.”’ 
Quips of the law, called ‘‘ devices of 


. Cépola,”” from Bartholemew Cépola, 


Law Latin 


73 


9 


Lay Out 


whose law-quirks, teaching how to elude 
the most express law, and to perpetuate 
lawsuits ad infini'tum, have been fre- 
quently reprinted — once in_ octavo, 
in black letter, by John Petit, in 
1503. 

The Man of Lawes Tale, by Chaucer. 
This story is found in Gower, who pro- 
bably took it from the French chronicle 
of Nicholas Trivet. A similar story 
forms the plot of Em'are, a romance 
printed in Ritson’s collection. The 
treason of the knight who murders Her- 
mengilde resembles an incident in the 
French Roman de la Violette, the English 
metrical romance of Le bone Florence of 
Rome (in Ritson), and a tale in the Gesta 
Romanorum, ec. 69 (Madden’s edition). 
(See CONSTANCE.) 


Law Latin. (Sve Doc Latry.) 


Law’s Bubbie. The famous Mis- 
sissippi scheme, devised by John Law, 
for paying off the national debt of France 
(1716-1720). By this ‘‘ French South- 
Sea Bubble’’ the nation was almost 
ruined. It was called Mississippi be- 
cause the company was granted the 
‘‘exclusive trade of Louisia’nua on the 
banks of the Mississippi.” 


Laws of the Medes and Persians. 
Unalterable laws. 

“Now, O king, ... sign the writing, that it he 
hot chanved, according to the law of the Medes 
and Persians which altereth not.’—Daniel vi. 8. 


The Laws of Howel Dha, who reigned 
in South Wales in the tenth century, 


pee with a Latin translation by 
Wotton, in his Leges Wallice (1841). 


Lawing. (Scots.) A tavern reckoning. 


Lawsuits. Miles d’Illiers, Bishop of 
Chartres (1459-1493), was s6 litigious, that 
when Louis XI. gave him a pension to 
clear off old scores, and told him in 
future to live in peace and goodwill with 
his neighbours, the bishop earnestly en- 
treated the king to leave him some three 
or four to keep his mind in good exer- 
cise. Similarly Panurge entreated Pan- 
tag’ruel not to pay off all his debts, but to 
leave some centimes at least, that he 
might not feel altogether a stranger to 
his own ‘self. (Rabelais: Pantagruel, 
iii. 5.) (See Linpurn.) 


Lawn. Fine, thin cambric bleached 
on a lawn, instead of the ordinary 
bleaching grounds, It is used for the 
sleeves of bishops, and sometimes for 
ladies’ handkerchiefs. 


Lawn-market (Zc). To go up the 
Lawn-market, in Scotch parlance, means 
to go to be hanged. 


“Up the Lawn-market, down the West Bow, 
Up the lang ladder, down the short low.” 
Schoolboy Riiyme (Scotland), 1 


“They [the stolen clothes] may serve him to 
ganz up the Lawn-market in, the scoundrel.”’—Sir 
W. Scott: Guy Mannering, chap. xx xii. 

Lawrence (‘S/.). Patron saint of 
curriers, because his skin was broiled on 
a gridiron. In the pontificate of Sextus I. 
he was charged with the care of the 
poor, the orphans, and ‘the widows. In 
the persecution of Vale’rian, being sum- 
moned to deliver up the treasures of the 
church, he produced the poor, ete., under 
his charge, and said to the prvetor, 
‘* These are the church’s treasures.’? In 
Christian art he is generally represented 
as holding a gridiron in his hand. He 
is the subject of one of the principal 
hymns of Prudentius. (See LAURENCE.) 

St. Lawrence's tears or The fiery tears 
of St. Lawrence. Meteoric or shooting 
stars, which generally make a great dis- 
play on the anniversary of this saint 
(August 10th). 

v The great periods of shooting stars 
are between the 9th and 14th of August, 
from the 12th to the 14th of November, 
and from 6th to 12th December. 

Tom Lawrence, alias **Tyburn Tom ” 
or “‘ Tuck.”? Ahighwayman, (Sir Walter 
Scott: Heart of Mid-Lothian.) 


Lawyer’s Bags. Some red, some 
blue. In the Common Law, red bags 
are reserved for Q.C.’s and Sergeants; 
but a stuff-gownsman may carry one 
“if presented with it by asilk.’’ Only 
red bags may be taken into Common Law 
Courts, 4/ve must be carried no farther 
than the robing-room. In Chancery 
Courts the etiquette is not so strict. 


Lay Brothers. Men not in orders 
received into the convents and bound by 
vows. . (Greek, /ads, people.) 


Lay Figures. Wooden figures with 
free joints, used by artists chiefly for 
the study of drapery. This is a meta- 
phorical use of lay. As divines divide 
the world into two parties, the ecclesi- 
astics and the laity, so artists divide their 
models into two classes, the living and 
the lay. 


Lay Out (70). (a) To disburse: J/ 
dépensa de grandes sommes εἰ argent. 

(4) Todisplay goods: Mettre des mar- 
chandises en montre. To place in con- 
venient order what is required for wear : 
Préparer ses beaux habits. 

(ec) To prepare a corpse for the coffin, 


Lay About 


736 


Le Roi le Véut 


by placing the limbs in order, and dress- 
ing the body in its grave-clothes. 


Lay about One (70). To strike on 

all sides. 
“Hell lay about him to-day.”—Shakespeare : 

Trolius and Cressida, i. 2. 

Lay by the Heels (7v). To render 

owerless. The allusion is to the stocks, 
im which vagrants and other petty 
offenders were confined by the ankles, 
locked in what was called the stocks, 
common, at one time, to well-nigh every 
village in the land, 


Lay of the Last Minstrel. (For 
plot see MARGARET.) 
Lay to One’s Charge (70). To at- 


tribute an offence to a person. 

“Andhe [Stephen] kneeled down, and cried with 
a loud voice, Lord lay not this sin to their 
charge.’"—Acts vii. 60. The phrase occurs again in 
the Bible,e.g. Deut. xxi. 8; Rom. viii. 33, etc, 

Lay’amon, who wrote a translation 
in Saxon of the Brut of Wace, in the 
twelfth century, is called The English 
Ennius. (See ENNIS.) 


Layers-over for Meddlers. No- 
thing that concerns you. A reproof to 
inquisitive children who want to know 
what a person is doing or making, when 
the person so engaged does not think 
proper to inform them. <A ‘layer- 
over’? isa whipor slap. Anda “ layer- 
over for meddlers ’’ is a whip or chastise- 
for those who meddle with what does 
not concern them. 


Lazar House or Lazaretto. A house 
for poor persons affected with contagious 


diseases. So called from the beggar 
Lazarus (¢.v.). 
Laz‘arists. A body of missionaries 


founded by St. Vincent de Paul in 1624, 
and so termed from the priory of St. 
Lazare, at Paris, which was their head- 
quarters from 1632 to 1792. 


Lazarillo de Tormés (1553). A 
comic romance, something in the (il 
Blas style, the object being to satirise 
all classes of society. Lazarillo, a light, 
jovial, audacious man-servant, sees his 
masters in their undress, and exposes 
their foibles. This work was written by 
Diego Hurtado de Mendoza, general 
and statesman of Spain, author of Var 
against the Moors, 


Lazaro’ne (3 syl.) ; Italian Lazzaro, 
plu. Lazzaroni. The mob. Originally 
applied to all those people of Naples 
who lived in the streets, not having 
any habitation of their own. So called 
from the hospital of St. Lazarus, which 


served as a refuge for the destitute of 
that city. Every year they elected a 
chief, called the Capo Lazzaro. Ma- 
saniello, in 1647, with these vagabonds 
accomplished the revolution of Naples. 
In 1798 Michele Sforza, at the head οἱ the 
Lazzaroni, successfully resisted Etienne 
Championnet, the French general. 


Lazarus, Any poor beggar; so called 
from the Lazarus of the parable, who 
was laid daily at the rich man’s gate 
(St. Luke cary ἢ 

Lazy. 

Lazy as David Lawrence's dog. 
Here Lawrence is a corruption of 
Larrence, an imaginary being supposed 
by Scottish peasantry to preside over the 


lazy and indolent. Laziness is called 
‘*Larrence.”? (See and compare Davy 
JONES.) 


Lazy as Joe, the marine, who laid down 
his musket to sneeze. (Sailor's proverb.) 

Lazy as Ludlam’s dog, which leaned 
his head against the wall to bark. This 
Ludlam was the famous sorceress of 
Surrey, who lived in a cave near Farn- 
ham, called ‘*‘ Ludlam’s Cave.’’? She 
kept a dog, noted for its laziness, so that 
when the rustics came to consult the 
witch, it would hardly condescend to 
give notice of their approach, even with 
the ghost of a bark. (lay: Proverbs.) 


Lazy Lawrence of Lubberland. 
The hero of a popular tale. He served 
the schoolmaster, the squire’s cook, the 
farmer, and his own wife, which wa~ 
accounted high treason in Lubberland. 
One of Miss Edgeworth’s tales, in the 


Parents’ Assistant, is called Lazy 
Lawrence. 
Lazy Lobkin (4). A lob (says 


Halliwell) is ‘‘ the last person in a race.”” 
(Somersetshire). (Welsh οὐ, a dolt, our 
‘*lubber.’’) 


“ A lazy lobkin, like an idle loute.” 
Breton: Olde Madcappes, etc, (1602), 


Lazy Man’s Load. One too heavy 
to be carried; so called because lazy 
people, to save themselves the trouble 
of coming a second time, are apt to over- 
load themselves. 

Lazyland ((rone to). 
indolence and idleness. 


Lazzaro’ni. (See LAZARONE.) 


L’Etat c’est Moi (J am the State). 
The saying and belief of Louis XIV. On 
this principle he acted with tolerable 
consistency. 

Le Roi le Veut (French, The king 
willsit.) The form of royal assent made 


Given up to. 


Lea 


737 


Teagué 


by the clerk of parliament to bills sub- 
mitted to the Crown. The dissent 15 
expressed by Le roi s’avisera (the king 
will give it his consideration). 


Le’a. One of the ‘daughters of 
men,’ beloved by one of the ‘‘sons of 
God.”’ The angel who loved her ranked 
with the least of the spirits of light, 
whose post around the throne was in the 
uttermost circle. Sent to earth on a 
message, he saw Lea bathing and fell in 
love with her ; but Lea was so heavenly- 
minded that her only wish was to “ dwell 
in purity, and serve God in singleness of 
heart.’’ Her angel lover, in the mad- 
ness of his passion, told Lea the spell- 
word that gave him admittance into 
heaven. The moment Lea uttered that 
word her body became spiritual, rose 
through the air, and vanished from his 
sight. On the other hand, the angel 
lost his ethereal nature, and became 
altogether earthy, like a child of clay.” 
(Moore : Loves of the Angels, story 1.) 

Lea’ba na Feine [ Beds of the Fvine). 
The name of several large piles of stones 
in Ireland. The ancient Irish warriors 
were called Fe’-i-ne, which some mistake 
for Pheeni (Carthaginians), but which 
means /unters. 


Leach, Leachcraft. A leach is one 
skilled in medicine, and ‘ leach-craft’’ 
is the profession of a medical man. 
(Anglo-Saxon, /@ce, one who relieves 
pain, /ececreft.) 

“ Andstraightway sent, with carefull diligence, 

To fetch a leach the which had great insight 

In that disease.” 

Spenser : Faérie Queene, hook i. canto x. line 23. 

Lead (pronounced Jed), the metal, 
was, by the ancient alchemists, called 
Saturn. (Anglo-Saxon, /edd.) 

To strike lad. To make a good hit. 


“That, after the failure of the king, he should 
‘strike lead* in his own house seemed .. . an in- 
evitable law.”—Bret Harte: Fool of Five Forks. 


Lead (pronounce /eed). (Anglo-Saxon 
led-an.) 


To lead apes in hell. (See ἈΡῈΒ.) 


To lead by the nose. (See under 
NOsE.) 

To lead one a pretty dance. (See under 
DANCE.) 


Leaden Hail (Showers of). That of 
artillery in the battlefield. 


Leaden Hall (pronounce ἤρθη), so 
named from the ancient manor of Sir 
Hugh Neville, whose mansion or hall was 
roofed with lead, a notable thing in 
his days. ‘Leadenhall Street’? and 
‘‘ Leadenhall Market,’’ London, are on 
the site of Sir Hugh’s manor. 


47 ote 


Leader (4) or a leading article. 
A newspaper article in large type, by 
the editor or one of the editorial staff. So 
called because it takes the lead or chief 
place in the summary of current topics, 
or because it is meant to lead public 
opinion. 

. The first fiddle of an orchestra and 
the first cornet-a-piston of a military 
band is called the leader. 


Leading Case (4). A lawsuit to 
settle others of a similar kind. 


Leading Note in music. The sharp 
seventh of the diatonic scale, which /eads 
to the octave, only half a tone higher. 


Leading Question. A question so 
worded as to suggestananswer. ‘* Was 
he dressed in a black coat ?’’ leads to the 
answer ‘ Yes.’’? In cross-examining ἢ, 
witness, leading questions are permitted, 
because the chief object of a cross-ex- 
amination is to obtain contradictions. 


Leading Strings. 7b be in leading- 
strings is to be under the control of 
another. Leading-strings are those 
strings used for holding up infants just 
learning to walk. 


Leaf. Before the invention of paper 
one of the substances employed for 
writing was the leaves of certain plants. 
In the British Museum are some writings 
on leaves from the Malabar coast, and 
several copies of the Bible written on 
palm-leaves. The reverse and obverse 
pages of a book are still called leaves: 
and the double page of a ledger is termed 
a ‘*folio,’’ from folium (a leaf). 

Leaf. (Anglo-Saxon /cdf.) 

To take a leaf out of [my] book. To 
imitate me; todoasIdo. The allusion 
is to literary plagiarisms. 

To turn over a new leaf. To amend 
one’s ways. The French equivalent is : 
** Jelui ferai chanter une autre chanson.”’ 
But in English, ‘‘To make a person 
sing another tune,’’ means to make him 
eat his words, or change his note for one 
he will not like so well. 


League. 

The Grey League [lia grischa], 15th 
century. So called from the grey home- 
spun dress adopted by the leaguers. 

The Holy League. Several leagues are 
sodenominated. The three following are 
the most important : 1511, by Pope Julius 
II.; Ferdinand the Catholic, Henry 
VIII., the Venetians, and the Swiss 
against Louis XII. ; and that of 1576, 
founded at Péronne for the maintenance 


Leak Out 


738 


Learn 


of the Catholic faith and the exclusion 
of Protestant princes from the throne of 
France. This league was organised by 
the Guises to keep Henri IV. from the 
throne. 


Leak Out (70). To come clandes- 
tinely to public knowledge. Asa liquid 
leaks out of an unsound vessel, so the 
secret oozes out unawares. 


Leal. Loyal, trusty, law-abiding. 
Norman-French, Jeyale, modern French, 
loyale ; Latin, legalis.) 

Land of the leal. (See LAND. . .) 


Lean’der (3 syl.) A young man of 
Aby'dos, who swam nightly across the 
Hellespont to visit his lady-love, Hero, 
a priestess of Sestos. One night he was 
drowned in his attempt, and Hero leaped 
into the Hellespont also. This story is 
told in one of the poems of Museus, 
entitled Hero and Leander. (Sce Mar- 
lowe’s poem.) (See HERO.) 

* Lord Byron and Lieutenant Eken- 
head repeated the experiment of Leander 
and accomplished it in 1 hour 10 minutes. 
The distance, allowing for drifting, would 
be about four miles. A young man of 
St. Croix, in 1817, swam over the Sound 
from Cronenburgh, in 2 hours 40 minutes, 
the distance being six miles. 


Leaning Tower. The one at Pisa, 
in Italy, is 178 feet in height, and leans 
about 14 feet. At Caerphilly, in Glamor- 
ganshire, there is a tower which leans 
eleven feet in eighty. 


“The Leaning Tower of Pisa continues to stand 
hecause the vertical line drawn through its centre 
of gravity passes within its base.’— Ganot: 
Physics. 


Leap Year. Every year divisible by 


four. Such years occur every fourth 
year. In ordinary years the day of the 


month which falls on Monday this year, 
will fall on Tuesday next year, and 
Wednesday the year after; but the 
fourth year will leap over Thursday to 
Friday. This is because a day is added 
to February, which, of course, affects 
every subsequent day of the year. (Se 
BIssEXTILE.) 

The ladies propose, and, if not accepted, 
claim a silk gown. St. Patrick, having 
“driven the frogs out of the bogs,”’ 
was walking along the shores of Lough 
Neagh, when he was accosted by St. 
Bridget in tears, and was told that a 
mutiny had broken out in the nunnery 
over which she presided, the ladies claim- 
ing the right of ‘‘ popping the question.”’ 
St. Patrick said he would concede them 
the right every seventh year, when St. 
Bridget threw her arms round his neck, 


and exclaimed, ‘‘ Arrah, Pathrick, jewel, 
I daurn’t go back to the girls wid such a 
proposal. Make it one year in four.”’ 
St. Patrick replied, ‘‘ Bridget, acushla, 
squeeze me that way agin, an’ I’ll give 
ye leap-year, the longest of the lot.” 
St. Bridget, upon this, popped the ques- 
tion to St. Patrick himself, who, of 
course, could not marry ; so he patched 
up the difficulty as best he could with a 
kiss and a silk gown. 

** The story told above is of no his- 
toric value, for an Act of the Scottish 
Parliament, passed in the year 1228, has 
been unearthed which runs thus :— 

“Ordonit that during ye reign of her maist 
blessed maiestie, Margaret, ilka maiden, ladee of 
baith high and lowe estait, shall hae libertie to > 
speak ye man she likes, Gif he refuses to tak hir 
to bee his wyf, he shale be mulct in the sum of 
ane hundridty pundes, or less, as his estait may 
hee, except and alwais gif he can make it appeare 
that he is betrothit to anither woman, then he 
schal be free.” 

N.B. The year 1228 was, of course, a 
leap-year. 


Leap in the Dark (4). Thomas 
Hobbes is reported to have said on his 
death-bed, ‘‘Now am I about to take 
my last voyage—a great leap in the 
dark.’? Rabelais, in his last moments, 
said, ‘‘Tam going to the Great Perhaps.”’ 
Lord Derby, in 1868, applied the words, 
“We are about to take a leap in the 
dark,’’ to the Reform Bill. 


Lear (King). A legendary king of 
Britain, who in his old age divided his 
kingdom between Goneril and Regan, 
two of his daughters,who professed great 
love forhim. These two daughters drove 
the old man mad by their unnatural 
conduct. (Shakespeare: King Lear.) 

Percy, in his Reliques of Ancient Eng- 
lish Poetry, has a ballad about King 
Leir and his Three Daughters (series i. 
book 2). 

Camden tells a similar story of Ina, 
King of the West Saxons (see Remains, 
p. 306, edition 1674). Thestory of King 
Lear is given by Geoffrey of Monmouth 
in his Chronicles, whence Holinshed 
transcribed it. Spenser has introduced 
the same story into his Faerie Queene, 
book 11. canto 10, 


Learn (1 syl.). Live and learn. 

Cato, the censor, was an old man when 
he taught himself Greek. 

Michael Angelo, at seventy years of 
age, said, “41 am still learning.”’ 

John Kemble wrote out Hamlet thirty 
times, and said, on quitting the stage, 
‘‘T am now beginning to understand 
my art.” 


Learn by Heart 7 


‘Lee 


Mrs. Siddons, after she left the stage, 
was found studying Lady Macbeth, and 
said, “1 am amazed to discover some 
new points in the character which I 
never found out while acting it.”’ 

Milton, in his blindness, when past 
fifty, sat down to complete his Pura- 
dise Lost. 

Scott, at fifty-five, took up his pen to 
redeem an enormous liability. 

Richardson was above fifty when he 
published his first novel, Pam’ela. 

Benjamin West was sixty-four when 
he commenced his series of paintings, 
one of which is Christ Healing the Sieh. 


Learn by Heart (70). The heart is 
the seat of understanding; thus the 
Scripture speaks of men ‘‘ wise in heart ;” 
and ‘‘slow of heart’? means dull of un- 
derstanding. To learn by heart is to 
learn and understand: to learn. by rote 
is to learn so as to be able to repeat; to 
learn by memory is to commit to memory 
without reference to understanding what 
is so learnt. However, we employ the 
phrase commonly as a synonym for 
committing to memory. 


Learned (2 syl.). Coloman, king of 


Husgary, was called Zhe Learned 
(1J95-1114). (Sze BEaAucLERc.) 
The Learned  Blachsmith. Elihu 


Burritt, the linguist, who was at one 
time a blacksmith (1811-1879). 

The Learned Painter. Charles Lebrun, 
so called from the great accuracy of his 
costumes (1619-190). 

The Learned Tailor, Wenry Wild. of 
Norwich, who mastered, while he worked 
at his trade, the Greek, Latin, Hebrew, 
Chaldaic, Syriac, Persian, and Arabic 
languages (1684-1734). 


Least Said the soonest Mended 
(The) or The Less Said . . . Explana- 
tions and apologies are quite useless, and 
only make bad worse. 


Leather. Nothing like leather. My 
interest is the best nostrum. A town, in 
danger of a siege, called together a 
council of the chief inhabitants to know 
‘what defence they recommended. A 
mason suggested a strong wall, a ship- 
builder advised ‘‘wooden walls,’’ and 
when others had spoken, a currier arose 
and said, ‘‘ There’s nothing like leather.’’ 

In Botallack, Cornwall, a standing 
toast is Zin and Pilchards, the staples of 
the town. 

*’ Another yersion i3, “ Nothing like leather to 
administer a thrashing.” 

Leather or Prunella. Jt is ail 
leather ov pruncila, Nothing of any 


moment, all rubbish. Prunella is a 
woollen stuff, used for the uppers of 
ladies’ boots and shoes. (See Saur.) 
“ Worth makes the man,and want of it the fellow; 
The rest is all but leather or prunella.” 
Pope: Essay on Man, 
Leathering. To give one a leathering 
is to beat him with a leather belt, such 
as policemen wear, and boys used to 
wear. (The Welsh /athen is a rod.) 


Leatherstocking (Na/ty). The 
nickname of Natty Bumpo (q.v.), in 
Cooper’s novel, called Zhe Pronecrs. 
A half-savage and half-Christian hero 
of American wild life. 


Leave in the Lureh (70). 
LEFT IN THE Lurcz.) 


Leave out in the Cold (70). To 
slight, to take little or no interest in a 
person; to pass by unnoticed. The 
allusion is to a person calling at a house 
with a friend and the friend not being 
asked to come in. 


Leave some for Manners. In 
TIicclesiasticus it is written : 


(Sve 


“Leave off first for manners’ sake ; and he not 
unsatiable, lest thou offend.’—Chap. xxxi. 17. 

Leaves without Figs. Show of 
promise without fulfilment. Words 
without deeds. Keeping the promise to 
the ear and breakingit to the sense. Of 
course, the allusion is to the barren fig- 
tree referred to in Luke xiii. 


Led Captain (4). An obsequious 
person, who dances attendance on the 
master and mistress of a house, for 
which service he has a knife and fork at 
the dinner table. He is led like a dog, 
and always graced with the title of 
captain. 

Le'da and the Swan. This has 
been a favourite subject with artists. 
In the Orléans gallery is the chef-d’- 
eure of Paul Veronese. Correggio and 
Michael Angelo have both left paintings 
of the same subject. 


Ledger (4). A book “laid up” in 
the couuting-house, and containing the 
debits and credits of the merchant or 
tradesman, arranged under ‘‘heads.”’ 
(Dutch legen, to lay ; whence /egge7-.) 

Ledger-lines, in music, are lines 
which lie above or below the staff. 
(Dutch, /zgger, to lie.) 


Lee. Under the lee of the land. Under 
the shelter of the cliffs which break the 
force of the winds. (Anglo-Saxon, hlzo, 
a shelter.) 


Under the lce of a ship. On the side 


Lee Haich 


40 Left 


———S— GY Sa aan 


opposite to the wind, so that the ship 
shelters or wards it off. 

To lay a ship by the lee, or, in modern 
nautical phraseology, to heave-to, is to 
arrange the sails of a ship so that they 
may lie flat against the masts and 
shrouds, that the wind may strike the 
vessel broadside so that she will make 
little or no headway, 


Lee Hatch. TZulke care of the lee 
hatch. Take care, helmsman, that the 
ship goes not to the leeward of her 
course—i.c. the part towards which the 
wind blows. 

Lee Shore is the shore under the lee 
of a ship, or that towards which the 
wind blows. (Sve LEE.) 
Weather-side. 


Lee-side and 


LEEWARD.) 


Lee Tide, or Leeward Tide, is a tide 
running in the same direction as the 
wind blows. A tide in the opposite 
direction is called a tide under the lee. 


(See 


Leeds (a Stock Exchange term). Lan- 
cashire and Yorkshire Railway Ordinary 
Stock. It is the Leeds line. 

The Austrian Leeds. Brinn, in Mo- 
ravia, noted for its woollen cloth. So it 
was called in the palmy days of Austria. 


Leek. JVearing the leek on St. David's 
day. Mr. Brady says St. David caused 
the Britons under King Cadwallader to 
distinguish themselves by a leek in their 
caps. They conquered the Saxons, and 
recall their victory by adopting the 
leek on every anniversary (March Ist). 
(Clavis Calendaria.) Wearing the leek 
is obsolete. (Anglo-Saxon /eac.) 

Shakespeare makes out that the Welsh 
wore leeks at the battle of Poitiers, for 
Fluellen says :— 

“Tf your majesties is remembered of it, the 
Welshmen dd god service in a garden where 
leeks did grow, wearin τ leeks in their Monmouth 
eaps, Which, your majesty know, to this hour is 
an honourable badge of the service ; and I do 
helieyve your majesty takes no scorn to wear the 
leek upon St. Tavy'’s Day.”"—Henry V., iv. 7. 

To eat the leek. To be compelled to 
eat your own words, or retract what 
you have said. Fluellen (in Shake- 
speare’s Henry J.) is taunted by Pistol 
for wearing a leek in his hat, ‘‘ Hence,”’ 
says Pistol, “1 am qualmish at the smell 
of leek.’’? Fluellen replies, ‘‘ I peseech 
you... at my desire... to eat this 
leek,”? The ancient answers, ‘‘ Not for 
Cadwallader and all his goats.’? Then 
the peppery Welshman beats him, nor 
desists till Pistol has swallowed the 
entire abhorrence. 


Lees. There are Ices to every wine. 
The best things have some defect. A 
French proverb. 

“Doubt is the lees of thought.” 
Boker : Doubt, ete., i. 11. 

Settling on the lees. Making the best 
of a bad job; settling down on what is 
left, after having squandered the main 
part of one’s fortune. 


Leet (4). A manor-court for petty 
offences ; the day on which such a court 
was held. (Anglo-Saxon, lethe, 2 law- 
court superior to the wapentake. ) 

“Who has a breast so pure, 
But some uncleanly apprehensions _ é 
Keep leets and law-days and in session sift 
With meditations lawful ?” ae 
Shakespeare: Othello, iil, 3. 

Leeward and Windward.  Lee- 
ward is toward the lee, or that part 
towards which the wind blows; 2vrd- 
ward is in the opposite direction, viz. 
in the teeth of the wind. ‘‘ Leeward,” 
pronounced /ew'-erd. (See 1.58.) 


Lefevre. The poor lieutenant whose 
story is so touchingly told in Sterne’s 
Tristram Shandy book vi. chap. 6). 


Left, unlucky; Right lucky. The 
augur among the Romans having taken 
his stand on the Capit’oline Hill, and 
marked out with his wand the space of 
the heavens to be the field of observa- 
tion, divided the space into two from 
top to bottom. If the birds appeared on 
the left side of the division, the augury 
was unlucky, but if the birds appeared 
on the right side the augury was pro- 
nounced to be favourable. 

“*Hail, gentle bird, turn thy wings and fly on 
my right hand!’ but the bird flew on the left 
side. Then the cat grew very heavy, for lhe knew 
the omen to be unlucky.’—Reyuard the Foa, iil. 

The Left, in the Legislative Assembly 
of France, meant the Girondists ; it was 
famous for its orators. In the House of 
Commons the Opposition occupies the 
left-hand side of the Speaker, In the 
Austrian Assembly the democratic party 
iscalled The Left. 

Over the left. A way of expressing 
disbelief, incredulity, or a negative. 
The allusion is to morganatic marriages 
(q.v.). When a woman so married 
claimed to be a wedded wife, she was 
told that such was the case ‘‘ over the 
left.”? (See below.) 

Sinister (the left hand), meaning not 
straightforward, dishonest, is far older 
than morganatic marriages. The an- 
cient Greek augurs considered all signs 
seen by them over the left shoulder to 
be unlucky, and foreboding evil to 
come. Plutarch, following Plato and 


Left-handed 


741 


Leger 


Aristotle, gives as the reason, that the 
west (or left side of the augur) was 
towards the setting or departing sun. 


Left-handed Compliment (4). A 
compliment which insinuates a reproach. 
(See below.) 


Left-handed Marriage. <A mor- 
ganat'ic marriage (g.7.). In these mar- 
riages the husband gives his left hand to 
the bride, instead of the right, when he 
says, ‘‘ I take thee for my wedded wife.”’ 
George William, Duke of Zell, married 
Eleanora d’Esmiers in this way, and the 
lady took the name and title of Lady of 
Harburg ; her daughter was Sophia 
Dorothe’a, the wife of George I. 


Left-handed Oath (4). An oath 
not intended to be binding. (See above.) 


Left in the Lurch. Left to facea 
great perplexity. In cribbage a lurch is 
when a player has scored only thirty 
holes, while his opponent has made 
sixty-one, and thus won a double. 


Leg (4), that is, a blackleg (q.v.). 
To make a leg, is to make a bow. 
“The pursnivant smiled at their simplicitye, 
And making many leggs, tooke their reward.” 
The King and Miller of Mansjield. 
Leg-bail. Arunaway. To give leg- 
dail, to cut and run. 


Leg-bye (4). in cricket, is a run 
scored from a ball which has glanced off 
any part of a batsman’s person except 
his hand, 


Leg of Mutton School (712). So 
Eckhart called those authors who lauded 
their patrons in prose or verse, under 
the hope of gaining a commission, a 
living, or, at the very least, a dinner for 
their pains. 


Legs. On his legs. Mr. So-and-So 
is on his legs, has risen to make a speech, 

On its last legs. Moribund ; obsolete ; 
ready to fall out of cognisance. 

To set on his legs. So to provide for 
one that he is able to earn his living 
without further help. 

To stand on one’s own legs. To be in- 
dependent; to be earning one’s own 
living. Of course, the allusion is to 
being nursed, and standing “alone.” 
(See Borrom.) 


Legal Tender (4). The circulating 
medium of a nation, according to a 
standard fixed by the government of 
that nation. It may be in metal, in 
paper, or anything else that the govern- 
ment may choose to sanction. In Eng- 
land, at present (1895), the standard is 


Ἵ“ 


a gold Βονθυθίρη, guaranteed of a fixed 
purity. In some countries it is silver, 
and in some countries the two precious 
metals are made to bear a relative value, 
say twenty silver shillings (or their 
equivalents) shall equal in commercial 
value a gold sovereign. In Germany, 
before 1872, a very base silver was a 
legal tender, and in Ireland James IT. 
made a farthing the legal tender repre- 
sented by an English shilling, so that 
δα, was really a legal tender for a 
sovereign. Of course, export and im- 
port trade would not be possible under 
such conditions. 


Legem Pone. Money paid down 
on the nail; ready money. The first of 
the psalms appointed to be read on the 
twenty-fifth morning of the month is 
entitled Legem pone, and March 25th is 
the great pay-day; in this way the 
phrase ‘‘ Legem pone’? became associated 
with cash down. 

“In this thereis nothing to be ahated ; all their 
speech is legem pone.” — Minshall: Essayes in 
Prison, p. 26. 

“They were all in our service for the legem pone.” 
Ozell: Rabelais. 

Legend means simply ‘‘ something to 
he read’ as part of the divine service. 
The narratives of the lives of saints and 
martyrs were so termed from their being 
read, especially at matins, and after 
dinner in the refectories. Exaggeration 
and a love for the wonderful so pre- 
dominated in these readings, that the 
word came to signify the untrue, or 
rather, an event based on tradition. 

“A mith isa pure and absolute imagination: 4 
levend has a basis of fact, but amplifies, abrides, 
or modifles that basis at pleasure.’—Razlinson : 
Historic Evidences, lecture i, p. 231, note-2. 

Legend of a Coin is that which is 
written round the face of a coin. Thus, 
on a shilling, the legend is round the 
head of the reigning sovereign: as, 
“VICTORIA DEI GRATTA BRITT: 
REGINA F: D:”’ (or “BRITANNIAR: 
REG: ἘΠ 9) The words “ONE 
SHILLING ”’ on the other side of the 
coin, written across it, we denominate 
the ‘ inscription.”’ 

Legen’da Aurea, by Jacques de Vora- 
gine. A collection of monkish legends 
in Latin. (1230-1298.) 

The Golden Legend, of Longfellow, is 
a semi-dramatic poem taken from an 
old German tale by Hartmann von der 
Aur, called Poor Henry. (Twelfth 
century.) 


Leger. St. Leger Stakes (Doncaster) ; 
so called from Colonel Anthony St. 
Leger, who founded them in 1776, The 


Leger-de-Main 


_. 


colonel was governor of St. Lucia, and 
cousin of the Hon. Elizabeth St. Leger 
(the lady Freemason). 

The St. Leger Stakes are for both 
colts and mares. Those which have 
run in the Derby or Oaks are eligible. 


Leger-de-Main. Sleight of hand; 
conjuring which depends chiefly on 
lightness of hand, or dexterity. 


Legion. ‘My nameis Legion : for we 
are many’ (St. Mark v. 9). A proverbial 
expression somewhat similar to hydra- 
headed. Thus, speaking of the houseless 
poor we should say, ‘‘ Their name is 
Legion ;’’ so also we should say of the 
diseases arising from want of cleanliness, 
the evils of ignorance, and so on. 

The Thundering Legion. The Roman 
legion that discomfited the Marcomanni 
in 179 is so called, because (as the legend 
informs us) a thunderstorm was sent in 
answer to the prayers of certain Chris- 
tians ; this storm relieved the thirst of 
the legion. In Jike manner a hail-storm 
was sent to the aid of Joshua, at the 
time when he commanded the sun to 
stay its course, and assisted the Israelites 
to their victory. (Dion Cassius, 1xxi. 8. 
(See Joshua x. 10-12.) 


Legion of Honour. An order of 
merit instituted by the First Consul in 
1802. for either military or civil merit. 
In 1843 there were 49,417 members, but 
in 185] one new member was elected for 
every two extinct ones, so that the 
honour was no longer a mere farce. 

Napoleon IIT. added a lower order of 
this Legion, called the Médaille Militaire, 
the ribbon of which was yellow, not red. 
The old Legion consisted of Grand 
Cross, Grand Officers, Commanders, 
Officers, and Chevaliers, and the ribbon 
of the order was red. 


“The Legion of Honour gives pensions to its 
military members, and free education to some 
four hundred of the daughters, sisters,and nieces 
of its members.” 

Legislator or Solon of Parnassus. 
Boileau was so called by Voltaire, be- 
cause of his Art of Poetry, a production 
unequalled in the whole range of 
didactic poetry. (1636-1711.) 


Leglin-girth. 70 cast a leqlin-girth. 
To have “ἃ screw loose ;”’ to have made 
a fuux pas; to have one’s reputation 
blown upon. A leglin-girth is the 
lowest hoop of a leglin or milk-pail. 


(See Sir Walter Scott: Fortunes of 
Nigel, chap. xxii.) 
Legree. A slave-dealer in Unele 


Tom’s Cabin, by Mrs, Beecher Stowe, 


» 


( 


42 


Lemnian Deed 


Leibnitz-ism or Leibnitzian-ism. 
The doctrines taught by G. W. von 
Leibnitz, the German philosopher (1646- 
1716). The opposite of Spinosa-ism. 
Spinésa taught that whatever is, is God 
manifested by phenomena. The light 
and warmth of the sun, the refreshing 
breeze, space, and every visible object, 
is only deity in detail. That God, in 
fact, is one and all. 

Leibnitz, on the other hand, taught 
that phenomena are separate from deity, 
as body is from soul; but although 
separate, that there is between them a 
pre-established harmony. ‘The electri- 
city which runs along a telegraph wire 
is not the message, but it gives birth to 
the message by pre-established harmony. 
So all things obey God’s will, not he- 
cause they are identical, but on account 
of this pre-established harmony. 


Leicester (pron. Les’/c7’) is the camp- 
town on the river Leire, which is now 
called the Soar. 


Leicester Square (London). So 
called from a family mansion of the 
Sydneys, Earls of Leicester, which stood 
on the north-east side. 

“The Earl of Leicester, father of Algernon 

Sidney the patriot ... built for himself a stately 
heuse at the north-east corner of a square plot 
of ‘Lammas Land,’ belonging to the parish of St. 
Martin's, which plot henceforth became known to 
Londoners as Leicester Fields. A square gradn- 
ally grew up on the spot,and was completed in 
1671.”—Cassell's Magazine, London Legends, x. 
“ Leigh (Amora) (pron. Ice). The 
heroine of Mrs. Browning’s poem so 
called, designed to show the noble aim 
of true art. 


Leilah [Zi-/ah|. A beautiful young 
slave, the concubine of Hassan, Caliph 
of the Ottoman Empire. She falls in 
love with the Giaour, flees from the 
seraglio, is overtaken by an emir, and 
cast into the sea. (Byron: The Giaour.) 


Lely (Si7 Peter), the painter, was the 
son of Vander Vaas or Faes, of West- 
phalia, whose house had a lily for its 
sign. Both father and son went by the 
nickname of Le-lys (the Lily), a sobri- 
quet which Peter afterwards adopted 
as his cognomen. 

Le'man (Lake), 
Latin Lemannus. 
“Take Leman woos me with its ervstal face.” 

Lord Byron: Childe Iavold, iii. 68. 

Lemnian Deed (4). One of unusual 
barbarity and cruelty. The phrase arose 
from two horrible massacres perpetrated 
by the Lemnians: the first was the 
murder of all the men and male children 


Geneva ; called in 


Lemnian Harth 


743 


Tieonine Contract 


on the island by the women; and the 
other was the murder by the men 
of all the children born in the is!and of 
Athenian parents. 


Lem'‘nian Earth. A species of earth 
of a yellowish-grey colour, found in 
the island of Lemnos, said to cure the 
bites of serpents and other wounds. 
It was called ferra sigilla’ta, because it 
was sealed by the priest before being 
vended. Philocte’tés was left at Lemnos 
when wounded in the foot by Herculés. 


Lemnian Women (7/c). A some- 
what similar story is told of these women 
to that of the Danaidés (q7.v.). When 
they found that their husbands liked the 
Thracian women better than themselves, 
they agreed together to murder every 
man in the island. Hypsiph’ylé saved 
her father, and was sold to some pirates 
as a slave. 


Lemnos. The island where Vulcan 
fell when Jupiter flung him out of 
heaven. Probably it was at one time 
volcanic, though not so now. 


Lemon Soles, which abound on the 
south coast of England and about Mar- 
seilles. Lemon is a corruption of the 
French /imande, a dab or flat-fish. The 
“flounder-sole.’”? There are several 
varieties. (Latin dima, mud.) 


Lemster Ore. Fine wool, of which 
Leominster carpets are made. 


“A bank of moss, 
Spongy and swelling, and far more 
Soft, than the finest Lemster ore.” 
ἢ Herrick: Oberon’s Palace. 
Lem’ures (3 syl.). The spirits of 
the dead. Good lem’ures were called 
Lares, but bad ones Larve, spectres 
who wandered about at night-time to 
terrify the living. (Ovid; Fasti, v.) 
“The Jars and lemures moan with midnight 
plaint.” Milton : Ode on the Nativity. 


Lend a Hand. (Sec Hanp.) 


Length (4). Forty-two lines. This 
is a theatrical term; an actor says he 
has one, two, or more /engths in his 
part, and, if written out for him, the 
scribe is paid by the length. 


Length-month. (See LENT.) 


Lens (Latin, a lentil or bean). Glasses 
used in mathematical instruments are so 
called because the double convex one, 
which may be termed the perfect lens, 
isofabean shape. — 


Lenson. As much alin as Lenson 
hill to Pilsen pin ; i.e. not at all. Lenson 


hill and Pilsen pin are two high hills in | 


Dorsetshire, called by sailors the Cow 
and Calf, Out at sea they look like one 
elevation, though in reality several hills 
separate them. 


Lent (Anglo-Saxon, lencten). Lencten- 
tid (spring-tide) was the Saxon name 
for March, because in this month there 
is a manifest lengthening of the days. 
As the chief part of the great fast falls 
in March, this period of fast received 
the name of the Lencten-festen, or Lent. 
It is from Ash Wednesday to Easter. 

< The Fast of thirty-six days was 
introduced in the fourth century. Felix 
III. added four more days in 487, to 
make it correspond with our Lord’s fast 
in the wilderness. 

Galeazzo’s Lent. A form of torture 
devised by Galeazzo Visconti, calculated 
to prolong the unfortunate victim’s life 
for forty days. 


Lent Lily (776). 
blooms in Lent. 


The daffodil, which 


Lenten. Frugal, stinted, as food in 
Lent. Shakespeare has ‘‘lenten enter- 
tainment’”’ (Hamlet, ii. 2); ‘‘a lenten 
answer”’ (Twelfth Night, i. 5); “ἃ 
lenten pye”’ (Romeo and Juliet, ii. 4), 

“And with a lenten salad cooled her blood.” 

Dryden: Hind and Panther, iii. 27. 

Leod'ogrance, of Camiliard, the father 

of Guinevere, wife of King Arthur. 


Le’on (in Orlando Furiosv), son of 
Constantine, the Greek emperor, is pro- 
mised Bradamant in marriage by her 
parents, Amon and Beatrice; but Brad- 
amant loves Roge’ro. By-and-by a 
friendship springs up between Leon and 
Rogero, and when the prince learns that 
Bradamant and Roge’ro are betrothed to 
each other, he nobly withdraws his suit, 
and Rogero marries Bradamant. 


Leonard. A real scholar, forced for 
daily bread to keep a common school, 
(Crabbe : Borough, letter xxiv.) 

St. Leonard is usually represented in 
a deacon’s dress, and holding chains or 
broken fetters in his hand, in allusion to 
his untiring zeal in releasing prisoners, 
Contemporary with Clovis. 


Leonidas of Modern Greece. 
Marco Bozzaris, who with 1,200 men 
put to rout 4,000 Turco-Albanians, at 
Kerpenisi, but was killed in the attack 
(1823). He was buried at Missolonghi. 


Le’onine Contract. A one-sided 
agreement ; so called in allusion to the 
fable of Zhe Lion and his Fellow- 
Hunters, (See GLAUCUS.) 


Tieonine Verses 744 


“TLerna 


Le’onine Verses, properly speaking, 
are either hexameter verses, or alternate 
hexameter and pentameter verses, rhym- 
ing at the middle and end of each re- 
spective line. These fancies were common 
in the 12th century, and were so called 
from Leoninus, a canon of the Church 
of St. Victor, in Paris, the inventor. 
In English verse, any metre which 
rhymes middle and end is called a 
Leonine verse. One of the most noted 
specimens celebrates the tale of a 
Jew, who fell into a pit on Saturday and 
refused to be helped out because it was 
his Sabbath. His comrade, being a 
Christian, refused to aid him the day 
following, because it was Sunday :— 

“Tende manus, Salomon, ego te de stercore 

tollam. 

Sabbata nostra colo, de stercore surgere nolo, 

Sabbata nostra quidem Salomon celebrabis 

ibidem.” 

Hexameters and pentameters. 


‘Help for you out of this mire ; here, give me 
your hand, Hezekiah.” 
“No! ’tis the Sabbath, a time labour’s accounted 
a crime. : ᾿ 
If on the morrow you've leisure, your aid 111 
accept with much pleasure.” 
“That will he my Sabbath, so, here I will leave 
youand go.” E. Ο. δ. 

Leonnoys, Leonnesse, or lLyon- 
nesse. A mythical country, contiguous 


to Cornwall. 


Leono’ra, wife of Fernando Flores- 
tan, a state prisoner in Seville. (Bceth- 
oven: Fidelio, an opera.) (See FER- 
NANDO.) 

Leonora. A princess who fell in love 
with Manri’co, the supposed son of 
Azucen’a the gipsy. The Conte di Luna 
was in love with her, and, happening to 
get Manrico and his reputed mother 
into his power, condemned them to 
death. Leonora interceded for Manrico, 
and promised the count if he would 
spare his life to ‘‘ give herself to him.”’ 
The count consented, and went to the 
prison to fulfil his promise, when 
Leonora fell dead from the effect of 
poison which she had sucked from a 
ring. Manrico, perceiving this, died 
also. (Verdi: Il Trovatoré, an opera.) 

Leono'ra de Guzman. The mistress or 
“favourite ’’ of Alfonso XI. of Castile. 
Ferdinando, not knowing who she was, 
fell in love with her; and Alfonso, to 
save himself from excommunication and 
reward Ferdinando for services, gave 
them in marriage to each other. No 
sooner was this done than the bride- 
groom, hearing who his bride was, 
indignantly rejected her, and became a 
monk, Leonora entered the same mon- 
astery as a novice, made herself known 


to Ferdinando, obtained his forgiveness, 
and died. (Donizetti: La Favorita, an 
opera.) 


Leon'tes (3 syl.), King of Sicilia, 
invited his friend Polix’enés, King of 
Bohemia, to pay him a visit, and being 
seized with jealousy, ordered Camillo to 
poison him. Camillo told Polixenes of 
the king’s jealousy, and fled with him 
to Bohemia. The flight of Polixenes 
increased the anger of Leontes against 
Hermione, his virtuous queen, whom he 
sent to prison, where she was confined 
of a daughter (Per‘dita), and it was 
reported that she had died in giving 
birth to the child. Per'dita, by order 
of the jealous king, was put away that 
she might be no more heard of as his; 
but, being abandoned in Bohemia, she 
was discovered by a shepherd, who 
brought her up as his own child. In 
time, Florizel, the son and heir of 
Polixenes, under the assumed name of 
Doriclés, fell in love with Perdita ; but 
Polixenes, hearing of this attachment, 
sternly forbade the match. The two 
lovers, under the charge of Camillo, fled 
to Sicily, where the mystery was cleared 
up, Leontes and Hermione re-united, and 
all ‘‘went merry as a marriage bell.’’ 
(Shakespeare : Winter's Tale.) 


Leopard, in Christian art, is em- 
ployed to represent that beast spoken of 
in the Apocalypse with seven heads and 
ten horns ; six of the horns bear a nimbus, 
but the seventh, being ‘‘ wounded to 
death” lost its power, and consequently 
has no nimbus. 

Leopard, in heraldry, represents those 
brave and generous warriors who have 
performed some bold enterprise with 
force, courage, promptitude, and ac- 
tivity. 

Leopards. So the French designate 
the English, because their heralds 
describe our device as‘a lion leoparde. 
Bertrand du Guesclin, the famous 
Breton, declared that men ““ devoyent 
bien honorer la noble Fleur-de-lis, plus 
qv ils ne faisaient le félon Liépard.”’ 


Lepracaun. The fairy shoemaker, 
(Irish Jleith-bhrogan, from leith-brog, 
one-shoe maker, so called because he is 
always seen working at a single shoe.) 

“Do you not catch the tiny clamour, 
Busy click of an elfin hammer. 
Voice of the Lepracaun singing shrill, 


As he merrily plies his trade ?” 
W. B. leats: Fairy and Folk Tales, p. 82. 


Lerna. 4 Lerna of ills (malo'rum 
Lerna), A very great evil, Lake Lerna 


Les Anguilles 


745 Letter 


is where Hercules destroyed the hydra 
which did incalculable evil to Argos. 

“Spain was a Lerna of ills to all Europe while 
it aspired to universal monarchy.”’—P. Motteaux : 
Preface to Rabelais. 

Les Anguilles de Melun. Crying 
out before you are hurt. When the 
Mystery of St. Bartholomew was per- 
formed at Melun, one Languille took 
the character of the saint, but when the 
executioner came to ‘‘ flay him alive,”’ 
got nervous and began to shriek in 
earnest. The audience were in hysterics 
at the fun, and shouted out, Languille 
erie avant qu-on Vécorche,’ and ‘ Les 
anguilles de Melun”’ passed into a French 
proverb. 


Lesbian Poets (Zc). Terpan’der, 
Alcz’us, Ari’on, and the poetess Sappho, 
all of Lesbos, 


Lesbian Rule (Zie). A post facto 
law. Making an act the precedent for 
arule of conduct, instead of squaring 
conduct according to law. 


Lese Majesty. (Sce Leze MAJESTY. ) 


Les'sian Diet. Great abstinence ; so 
called from Lessius, a physician who 
prescribed very stringeat rules for diet. 
(Sce BANTING.) 

Les'trigons. A race of giants who 
lived in Sicily. Ulysses sent two of his 
men to request that he and his crew 
might land, but the king of the place ate 
one for dinner and the other fled. The 
Lestrigons assembled on the coast and 
threw stones against Ulysses and his 
crew. Ulysses fled with all speed, but 
lost many of his men. ‘There is con- 
siderable resemblance between this tale 
and that of Polypheme, who ate one of 
Ulysses’ companions, and on the flight 
of the rest assembled with other giants 
on the shore, and threw stones at the 
retreating crew, whereby several were 
killed. 

Let, to permit, is the Anglo-Saxon 
let-an, to suffer or permit ; but let (to 
hinder) is the verb /e¢t-an. It is a pity 
we have dropped the second ¢ in the 
latter word. 


“ Oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, but 
W.ts (uave been] let hitherto.”—Romans i. 18, 


Let Drive cor To attack; to fall 
foul of. A Gallicism. ‘ Se laisser aller 
a. . .”’—i.e. to go without restraint. 


“Thou knowest my old ward ; here I [Falstaff] 
lay, and thus I bore my point, Four rogues in 
buckram let drive at me.... These four came 
all a-front, and mainly thrust at me.’*— Shake- 
spewre: 1 Henry LV., ii. 4. 


Let us Eat and Drink; for to- 
morrow we shall Die (Isaiah xxii, 13). 


The Egyptians in their banquets ex- 
hibited a skeleton to the guests, to 
remind them of the brevity of human 
lite saying as they did so, ‘‘ Let us eat 
and drink, for to-morrow we die.”’ 

Leth’e (2 syl.), in Greek mythology, 
is one of the rivers of Hadés, which 
the souls of all the dead are obliged to 
taste, that they may forget everything 
said and done in the earth on which 
they lived. (Greek /étho, lathéo, lanthdno, 
to cause persons not to know.) 


Lethe’an Dew. Dreamy forgetful- 
ness; a brown study. Lethé, in my- 
thology, is the river of forgetfulness. 
Sometimes incorrectly called Le’thean. 

“ The soul with tender luxury you [Muses] fill, 

Ando er the senses Lethean dews distill.” 

Falconer: Uhe Shipwreck, iii. 4. 

Letter-Gae. The precentor is called 
by Allen Ramsay ‘‘The Letter-gae of 
haly rhyme.”’ ‘* Holy rhyme’? means 
hymns or chants. 

“There were no sae mony hairs on the warlock’s 
face as there's on Letter-gae'sain at this moment.” 
—ASir W. Scott : Guy Munnering, clap. xi. 
~ Letter-lock. A lock that cannot be 
opened unless certain chosen letters are 
arranged in a certain order, 

“A strange lock that opens with AMEN.” 
Beaumont and Fletcher : Noble Gentleman. 

Letter of Credit. A letter written 
by a merchant or banker to another, re- 
questing him to credit the bearer with 
certain sums of money. Circular Notes 
are letters of credit carried by gentlemen 
when they travel. 


Letter of Licence (4). An instru- 
ment in writing made by a creditor, 
allowing a debtor longer time for the 
payment of his debt. 


Letter of Marque. A commission 
authorising a privateer to make reprisals 
on a hostile nation till satisfaction for 
injury has been duly made. Here 
‘*marque’’ means march, or marca, a 
border-land (whence our ‘ marquis,’’ 
the lords appointed to prevent border- 
incursions). A letter of marque or mart 
was permission given for reprisals after 
a border-incursion. Called jus marchium. 


Letter of Orders (4). A certificate 
that the person named in the letter has 
been admitted into holy orders. 


Letter of Pythagoras (7116). 
Greek upsilon, Ψ 

“ They placed themselves in the order and figure 
of Ψ, the letter of Pythagoras, as cranes do in 
their flight.’—Rabelais: Pantagruel, iv. 33. 

Letter of Safe Conduct. A writ 
under the Great Seal, guaranteeing 
safety to and fro to the person named 
in the passport, 


The 


Letter 


746 


Letter of Uriah (2 Sam. xi. 14). A 
treacherous letter of friendship, but in 
reality a death-warrant. (See BELLER- 
OPHON.) 

“ However, sir, here is a guarantee. Look at its 
contents; I do not again carry the letters of 
Uriah.”—Sir W. Scott: Redgauntlet, chap. XV1. 

Letters. Their proportionate use is 
as follows :— 


30) 1,000 H Bite. 5530} Re 88 
rit 770 R Ww.. 10} Jd δῦ 
A 728 Ὁ ὦ ὡς 154 uJ 50 
I 704 | L Ρ τς 16s | X 46 
5 6380 | U ae, ESA 22 
CO} ad ΡΟΣ same Bi ou. 185 

ΝΟ τς ΘΟ ΜῈ τὸ 272 {Vie «ice 1900] 


Consonants, ὅ,9 17. Vowels, 3,400. 


As initial letters the order is very 
different, the proportion being :— 


S .. 1194(M -- 439); W -- 278/Q -- 58 
πα ΠΣ ae) BRS IIG: 268 Bape! | EKSs inte 47 
Pie S04 Te τ SS Uae ss) | ane meas 
Tbe eC eee, 0 09) «τ, SYA τ 18 
ID eee) STINE es ΒΟ ine 9 AAI RG eats 4 
Di πὸ 5050 τὸ ΘΝ secret oa 

i aa ΒΒ ΗΕ roe | PCA Cd eo Os 


++ Eis the most common letter (except in ini- 
tials), and 7, s, t, d, are the most common final 
letters. - 

Tandaare the only single letters which make 
words. Perhaps 0,as a sign of the vocative case, 
should be added. Of two letters, a7, at,and on 
are the most common, and of three letters the and 
and. (See LONG WORDS.) 


Letters. Philo affirms 
were invented by Abraham. 

Many attribute the invention to Bada 
manth, the Assyrian. 

Blair says they were invented by 
Memnon, the Egyptian, B.c. 1822. 

The same authority says that Meneés 
invented hieroglyphics, and. wrote in 
them a history of Egypt, B.c. 2122. 

Josephus asserts that he had seen in- 
scriptions by Seth, son of Adam. 

Lucan says :— 

“ Pheeni’cé3 primi, fame si creditur, ausi 

Manswram ru/dibus vocem signa’re figu’vis.” 

Pharsalia, iii. 220, 

Sir Richard Philips says—‘‘ Thoth, the 
Egyptian who invented current writing, 
lived between 8.0, 2806 and 9000. 

Many maintain that Jehovah taught 
men written characters when He in- 
scribed on stone the ten commandments. 
Of course, all these assertions have a 
similar value to mythology and fable. 

Cadmos, the Pheenician, introduced 
sixteen of the Greek letters. 

Simon‘idés introduced ἢ, ὦ, ἕξ; and 
Epicarmos introduced 4, x. At least, so 
says Aristotle. (Sze LACEDEMONIAN 
Lerrer, and Lerrer or PYTHAGORAS.) 

Father of Letters (Pere des Lettres). 
Frangois I, of France (1494, 1515-1547). 

Lorenzo de’ Medici, the Mtugnificent 
(1442-1492), 


that letters 


Letters 


A man of letters. 


A man of learning, 
of erudition. 


Letters expletive, and marks on 
letters. 


In French there are two letters expletive—I and 
t. The former, called ‘1 ephelcystic,’ is placed 
before on if the preceding word ends with a 
vowel, as si-l-on. The latter is called “t euphon- 
istic,’ and is used in interrogative sentences he- 
tween the third person singular of verbs ending 
with a vowel, and a pronoun beginning with a 
vowel, as qgelle-t-il ? a-t-elle? 

The chief accents are the graye (), acute () 
and circumflex (~). 

Two dots over the latter of two vowels (called 
dieresis), signify that each yowel is to be sounded, 
as Aél/ius (4 syl.). 

A hyphen between two or more nouns or syl- 
lables denotes that they form a compound word, 
as mother-in-law. The hyphen in French is called 
a “trait d’union,” as irai-je. 

In French, the mark (,) under the letter ¢ is 
called a cedilla, and signifies that the c (which 
would otherwise be = k) is to be pronounced like 
8, a8 Ga (sah), and gargon (garson). : 

A small comma (*) over an @, 0, or u,in Scan- 
dinavian languages, is called an wmlau, and a 
vowel so marked is called an umlaute (3 syl.). 

(“or”) over the vowel o in German, is calleda 
zweipunct (2 syl.), and gives the vowel the sound 
ofa French ew,as in peu, ete. ; but over the vowel 
wit gives it the sound of the French a in dat. 

Letters Missive. An order from the 
Lord Chancellor to a peer to put in an 


appearance to a bill filed in chancery. 


Letters Overt. The same as letters 
patent (q.v.). 


Letters Patent. So denominated 
because they are written upon open 
sheets of parchment, with the seal of 
the sovereign or party by whom they 
were issued pendent at the bottom. 
Close letters are folded up and sealed 
on the outside. (Sir Zhomas Duffus 
Hardy.) 


Letters at the Foot of a Page. 
Printers affix a letter to the first page of 
each sheet ; these letters are called sig- 
natures. They begin with B, and some- 
times, but not always, omit J, v, w. 
A is reserved for the title and preface. 
After z, the alphabet is used double— 
thus, A A or 2 A—and then trebled, quad- 
rupled, etc., as necessity demands. 
Sometimes figures, 1, 2, 3, etc., are used 
instead of letters. (See SHEET.) 


Letters of Administration. The 
legal instrument granted by the Probate 
Court to a person appointed adminis- 
trator to one who has died intestate. 


Letters of MBeller’ophon, 
BELLEROPHON.) 


Letters of Horning. 
Horn, Horns.) 


Letters of Junius, (Sce JUNIUS.) 


Letters of the Sepuichre. The 
laws made by Godfrey and the Patriarchs 


(See 


(See wnrder 


Lettre de Cachet 


47 Levellers 


of the court of Jerusalem. There were 
two codes, one respecting the privileges 
of the nobles, and the other respecting 
the rights and duties of the burghers. 
They were kept in a coffer laid up in the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre, 


Lettre de Cachet (french). An 
arbitrary warrant of imprisonment; a 
letter folded and sealed with the king’s 
cachet or little seal, These were secret 
instructions to the person addressed to 
proceed against someone named in the 
letter. The lieutenant-general of police 
kept an unlimited number of these in- 
struments, and anyone, for a considera- 
tion, could obtain one, either to conceal 
a criminal or to incarcerate someone 


obnoxious. This power was abolished 
in the Revolution. 
Lettre de Jérusalem. A _ letter 


written to extort money. 
Les Voleurs, 1. 240-253.) 


Leuca‘dia or Leucas. The promon- 
tory from which desponding lovers threw 
themselves into the sea, Sappho threw 
herself from this rock when she found 
her love for Phaon was in vain. 

“ Thenee injured lovers, leaping from ahoye, 

Their flaices extinguish, and forget to love.” 

Pope: Sappho to Phaon. 

Leucippus (Greek, Leukippos). 
Founder of the Atomistic School of 
Greek philosophy (about B.c, 428). 


Leucoth'ea [JVhite Goddess}. So 
Ino was called after she became a sea- 
nymph. Her son Palwmon, called by 
the Romans Portu’nus, or Portumnus, 
was the protecting genius of harbours. 


“ By Leucothea’'s lovely hands, 
And her son who rules the strands "ἢ 
Milton: Comus, 896-7. 


Leuh. The register of the Recording 
Angel, in which he enters all the acts of 
the member of the humanrace. (Ac- 
cording to the Koran.) 


Lev’ant and Couchant. Applied to 
cattle which have strayed into another’s 
field, and have been there long enough 
to lhe down and sleep. The owner of 
the field can demand compensation for 
such intrusion. (Latin, ‘‘levantes et 
cubantes,”’ rising up and going to bed.) 


Lev’ant and Ponent Winds. The 
east wind is the Lev’ant, and the west 
wind the Ponent. The former is from 
levo, to rise (sunrise), and the latter from 
pono, to set (sunset). 


“ Forth rush the Levant and the Ponent winds.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, x. 704. 
Levant, the region, strictly speaking, means the 
eastern shore of the Mediterranean ; but is often 
applied to the whole Hast, 


(See Vidocg : 


Levant’... He has levan'ted—i.e. made 
off, decamped. <A /evan'ter is one who 
makes a bet, and runs away without 
paying his betif he loses. (Spanish ‘* /c- 
vantar el campo, la casa,” to break up 
the camp or house ; our /eave. 

In the Slang Dictionary, p. 214, we 
are told that ‘‘it was formerly the 
custom, when a person was in pecuniary 
difficulties, to give out that he was gone 
to the Levant.’’? Hence, when one lost a 
bet and could not or would not pay, he 
was said to have levanted—i.e. gone to 
the Levant. Of no historic value. 


Levée. Levée en masse (French). A 
patriotic rising of a whole nation to 
defend their country from invasion. 

The Queens Levée. It was customary 
‘for ‘the queens of France to receive at 
the hour of their levée —?.c. while 
making their toilet-—the visits of certain 
noblemen. ‘This custom was afterwards 
demanded as a right by the court physi- 
clans, messengers from the king, the 
queen’s secretary, and some few other 
gentlemen, so that ten or more persons 
were often in the dressing-rooin while 
the queen was making her toilet and 
sipping her coffee. The word is now 
used to express that concourse of gentle- 
men who wait on the queen on mornings 
appointed. No ladies except those 
attached to the court are present on 
these occasions. 


Ὁ Kings and some nobles have their 
levées sometimes of an evening. 

“When I was very young (said Lord Eldon to 
Mrs. Forster) Lerd Mansfield used to hold levees 
on Sunday evenings.”—Twiss: Lord Eldon, vol. i. 
chap. v. p. 68. 

Level Best. Zo do one's level lest. 
To exert oneself to the utmost Aw gré 
de nos pouvoirs. In 1877 Mr. Hale pub- 
lished a book entitled His Level Best. 


Level Down. To bring society, taxes, 
wages, etc., to an equality by reducing 
all to the lowest standard. 


Level Up (70). To raise the lower 
strata of society, or standard of wages, 
etc., to the level of the higher. 


Levellers. (April, 1649.) A body of 
men that first appeared in Surrey, and 
went about pulling down park palings 
and levelling hedges, especially those on 
crown lands. Colonel Lilburne was 
lodged in prison for favouring the Level- 
lers. (See LILBURNE.) 


Levellers. Radicals in the time of 
Charles I. and the Commonwealth, who 
wanted all men to be placed on a level 
with respect to their eligibility to office. 


Levellers 


Levellers (in Jrish History), 1740. 
Agrarian agitators, afterwards called 
Whiteboys (g.v.). Their first offences 
were levelling the hedges of enclosed 
commons; but their programme deve- 
Joped into a demand for the general 
redress of all agrarian grievances. 


Lever de Rideau, A light and short 
dramatic sketch placed on the stage while 
the manager is preparing to introduce 
his drama for the night, or ‘‘draw up 
the curtain’’ on the real business. 

“An attempt to pack a romantic tragedy into 
the space filled by an ordinary lever de rideau.”— 
Nineteenth Century, Dec., 1892, p. 904, 

Lev’eret. A younghare. The Duke 
d’Epernon always swooned at the sight 
of a leveret, though he was not affected 
ifthe sawa hare. (See Fox.) 


Leviathan. The crocodile, or some 
extinct sea monster, described in the 
Book of Job (chap. xii.). It sometimes 
in Scripture designates Pharaoh, King of 
Eeypt, as in Psa. Ixxiy. 14, Isa, xxvil. 1, 
and Ezek. xxix. 3, etc., where the word 
is translated *‘ dragon,”’ 

The Leviathan of Literature. Dr. 
Johnson (1709-1784). 


Lev'ites (2 syl.). In Dryden’s Adsa- 
lom and Achitophel, means the Dissent- 
ing clergy who were expelled by the Act 
of Conformity. 


Levit/‘ical. Belonging to the Levites 
or priestly tribe of Levi; pertaining to 
the Jewish priesthood, as the Levitical 
lau, Levitical rites. 


Lewd (Anglo-Saxon, /eéde) simply 
means folkin general, verb /eod-an. The 
present meaning refers to the celibacy of 
the clergy. 


“All that a lewd man hath need to knawe for 
hete of sowl.”—Caaton Societu’s Publications. 


Lewis (Jonk). (Sce Monx.) 


Lewis Baboon. Louis XIV. of 
France is so called in Arbuthnot’s His- 
tory of John Bull. Of course, there is 
a play upon the word Bourbon. 


Lewkner’s Lane. Now called 
“ Charles Street,’? Drury Lane, London, 
always noted for ladies of the pavement. 


“The nymphs of chaste Diana’s train, 
The same with those of Lewkner's Lane.” 
Butler: Hudibras, part iii. canto 1, 


Lex non Scripta. The common law, 
as distinguished from the statute or 
written law. Common law does not 
derive its force from being recorded, and 
though its several provisions have been 
compiled and printed, the compilations 
are not statutes, but simply remem- 
brancers, 


748 


Libel 


Lex Talio‘nis (Latin). Tit for tat; 
the law of retaliation. 

Leyden Jar or Phial. A glass 
vessel partly coated, inside and out, with 
lead-foil, and used in electrical experi-- 
ments to receive accumulated electricity ; 
invented by Vanleigh, of Leyden. 

Leze Majesty. High treason; i.e. 
“ Crimen lese Mayjestatis.”’ 

Li-Flambe. The banner of Clovis 
miraculously displayed to him in the 
skies. (See Toaps.) 

Lia-fail (of Ireland). The Futalé 
Marmor or Stone of Destiny. On this 
stone the ancient Irish kings sat at their 
coronation, and according to tradition, 
wherever that stone might be the people 
there would be dominant. It was re- 
moved to Scone; and Edward removed 
it from Scone Abbey to London. It is 
kept in Westminster Abbey under the 
royal throne, on which the English 
sovereigns sit at their coronation. (See 
ConroNnaTION CHATR, SCONE.) 


Liak’ura (3 syl.). Parnassus. 


“ But where is be that hath beheld 
The peak of Liakura unveiled.” 
Turon: The Giaour. 


Liar (Zhe). Al Aswad, who set him- 
self up as a prophet against Mahomet, 
He was,called the Weathercock because he 
changed his creed so often, the Impostor, 
and the Liar. 

Moseilma, another contemporary, who 
affirmed that the ‘‘belly is the seat of 
the soul.’? He wrote to Mahomet, and 
began his letter: ‘From Moseilma, 
prophet of Allah, to Mahomet, prophet 
of Allah,’’? and received for answer a 
letter beginning thus: ‘‘ From Mahomet 
the prophet of God, to Moseilma the 
Liar.”’ (Anglo-Saxon, /ed7-an, to tell a 
falsehood ; but to be recumbent is licg-au 
or lig-an.) 

Prince of Liars, Ferdinand Mendez 
Pinto, a Portuguese traveller, whose 
narrative is so much after Munchausen’s 
style, that Cervantesdubbed him ‘‘ Prince 
of Liars.”’ The Zaéler called him a man 
‘‘of infinite adventure and unbounded 
imagination.” 

Libel means a /ittle book; (Latin, 
libellus). A lampoon, a satire, or any 
defamatory writings. Originallyit meant 
a plaintiff’s statement of his case, which 
usually ‘‘ defames”’ the defendant. 

The greater the truth, the greater the 
libel. The dictum of William Murray, 
Earl of Mansfield (1704-1793). 


“Dost not know that old Mansfield, who writes 
like the Bible, | | ‘ 

Says: ‘The more ’tis a truth, sir, the more ‘tig 
a libel’ ?” UTUS + 


Liber Albus 


Li’/ber Albus contains the laws and 
customs of the city of London, compiled 
in 1419, by John Carpenter, town clerk. 


Liber Niger or The Black Book of 
the Exchequer, compiled by Gervase of 
Tilbury, in the reign of Henry II. It is 
a roll of the military tenants. 


Liberal Arts. Book-learning (Latin, 
liber) ; viz., Grammar, Rhetoric, Philo- 
sophy, Arithmetic, Geometry, Astron- 
omy, and Music. 


Liberal Unionists or Zory Demo- 
crats. Those Conservatives or Tories 
who have a strong bias towards demo- 
cratic measures. 

Liberal Unionists. Those Whigs 
and Radicals who united, in 1886, with 
Lord Salisbury and the Conservative 
party to oppose Home Rule for Ireland. 
Mr. Gladstone had brought in a Bill to 
give the Irish Home Rule. Lord Hart- 
ington was chief of the Whigs, and Mr. 
Chamberlain chief of the Radicals, who 
seceded from Mr. Gladstone’s party. 


Lib’erals. A political term first em- 
ployed in 1815, when Lord Byron and 
his friends set on foot the periodical 
called The Liberal, to represent their 
views in politics, religion, and literature. 
The word, however, did not come into 
general use till about 1831, when the 
Reform Bill, in Lord Grey’s Ministry, 
gave it prominence. 

“Influenced ina great degree by the philosophy 
and the politics of the Continent, they [the Whigs] 
endeavoured to substitute cosmopolitan for 
national principles, and they baptised the new 
scheme of politics with the plausible name of 
* Liberalism.’ "—Disrueli, June 24, 1872. ΌΡΟ.Η 

Lib’erator (7.6). The Peruvians so 
call Simon Bolivar, who established the 
independence of Peru. (1785-1831.) 
Daniel O’Connell was so called, because 
he tried to sever Ireland from England, 
(1775-1847.) 


Liberator of the world. So Dr. 
Franklin has been called. (1706-1790.) 
Liberia. An independent republic of 


western Africa settled by free negroes. 


Lib’ertines. <A sect of heretics in 
Holland, led by Quinton a factor, and 
Copin. They maintained that nothing 
is sinful but to those who think it sinful, 
and that perfect innocence is to live 
without doubt. 

By a ‘‘ libertine ’’ is now generally 
meant a profligate, or one who puts no 
restraint on his personal indulgence, 


“A libertine, in earlier use, was a speculative 
free-thinker in matters of religion and in the 
theory of morals ... but [it has come] to signify 
a protligate.’—Trench: On the Study of Words, 
lecture iii. p. 90. 


749 


Libitina 


—2 


Liberty means ‘‘to do what one 
11Κ65. (Latin, /iber, free.) 

Civil Liberty. The liherty of a subject to con- 
duct his own affairs as he thinks proper, provided 
he neither infringes on the equal liberty of 
others, nor offends against the good morals or 
laws under which he is living. 

Moral Liberty. Such freedom as is essential to 
render a person responsible for what he does, or 
What he omits to do, ᾿ 

National Liberty. The liberty of a nation to 
make its own laws, and elect its own executive. 

Natural Liberty. Unrestricted freedom to exer- 
cise all natural functions in their proper places. 

Personal Liberty. Liberty to. go out of one’s house 
or nation, and to return again without restraint, 
except deprived thereof by way of punishment. 

Political Liberty. The right to participate in 
political elections and civil offices ; and to havea 
voice in the administration of the laws under 
which you liveasa citizen and subject. | 

Religious Liberty. Freedom in religious opinions, 
and in both private and public worship, }rovided 
such freedom in no wise interferes with the equa! 
liberty of others. 

Cap of Liberty. The Goddess of Liberty. 
in the Aventine Mount, was represented 
as holding in her hand a cap, the symbol 
of freedom. In France, the Jacobins 
wore aved cap. In England, a d/ue cap 
with a white border is the symbol of 
liberty, and Britannia is sometimes re- 
presented as holding such a cap on the 
point of her spear. (Sze Cap oF LIBERTY.) 

Liberty. The Goddess of Liberty. 
On December 10th, 1793, Mlle. Malliard, 
an actress, was selected to personify the 
“ Goddess of Liberty.”? Being brought 
to Notre Dame, Paris, she was seated on 
the altar, and lighted a large candle to 
signify that Liberty was the “light of 
the world.”” (See Lowis Blane : History, 
ili, 365-367.) 

. The statue of Liberty, placed over 
the entrance of the Palais Royal, was 
modelled from Mme. Tallien. 

The Goddess of Reason. (Aug. 10, 1793.) 
The Goddess of Reason was enthroned by 
the French Convention at the suggestion 
of Chaumette; and the cathedral of 
Notre Dame de Paris was desecrated for 
the purpose. The wife of Momoro the 
printer was the best of these goddesses. 
The procession was attended by the 
municipal officers and national guards, 
while troops of ballet girls carried torches 
of truth. Incredible as it may seem, 
Gobet (the Archbishop of Paris), and 
nearly all the clergy stripped themselves 
of their canonicals, and, wearing red 
nightcaps, joined in this blasphemous 
mockery. So did Julien of Toulouse, a 
Calvinistic minister. 


“Mrs. Momoro, it is admitted. made one of the 
best goddesses of Reason, though her teeth were 
a little defective.”—Curlyle: French Revolution, 
vol. ili. book v. 4. 

Libitina. The goddess who, at Rome, 


presided over funerals. + 
“Omnis moriar; nullaque pars mei y.tabit 
Libitinam.” 


Libra 


750 


Lick into Shape 


Libra [the Jalance]. One of the 
twelve signs of the Zodiac (September 
22 to October 22), when day and night 
being weighed would be found equal. 


Library. One of the most approved 
materials for writing on, before the in- 
vention of paper, was the thin rind be- 
tween the solid wood and the outside 
bark of certain trees. This substance is 
in Latin called /ider, which came in time 
to signify also a ‘‘book.’’ Hence our 
library, the place for books; librarian, 
the keeper of books; and the French 
livre, a book. 

τοῦ Some interesting facts concerning hooks and 
libraries will be found in Disraeli’s Curiosities of 
Literature. 

A circulating library. A library from 
which the books may be borrowed and 
taken by readers to their homes under 
certain restrictions. 

A living or walking library. Longi'nus, 
the philcsopher and rhetorician, was so 
called. (213-273.) 

Public Libraries, 

{| Ancient. The first public library 
known was founded at Athens (B.c. 540) 
by Pisistratos. That of Alexandria, 
founded (B.c. 47) by the Ptolemies, con- 
tained 400,000 books. It was burnt by 
order of the Calif Omar, A.D. 641. 

The first public library of Rome was 
founded by As'inus Pollio; the second, 
called the Palatine, by Augustus. 

The royal library of the Fatimites of 
Egypt contained 100,000 manuscripts, 
splendidly bound. (Gibbon.) 

The library of the Ommiades of Spain 
contained 600,000 volumes, 44 of which 
were catalogues. (Gibbon.) 

There were seventy public libraries in 
the kingdom of Andalu’sia. (Gibbon.) 

When the monastery of Croydon was 
burnt, in 1091, its library consisted of 
909 volumes, 300 of which were very 
large. (Jngulphis.) 

“1 Modern, The British Museum library 
contains above 32 miles of book-shelves, 
1,250,000 volumes, and 89,000 MSS. 
Some 40,000 additions are made yearly. 

The Bibliotheque Nationale of Paris, 
founded by Louis XIV., is the largest 
library in the world. It contains above 
1,400,000 volumes, 500,000 pamphlets, 
175,000 manuscripts, 300,000 maps and 
charts, 150,000 coinsand medals, 1,400,000 
engravings, contained in 10,000 volumes, 
and 100,000 portraits. 

The Impériale, France, contains about 
600,000 books, 500,000 pamphlets, and 
85,000 manuscripts. 

The Munich Library contains about 
600,000 books and 10,000 manuscripts, 


------ 


The Vienna, about 500,000 books and 
20,000 manuscripts. 

The Vatican, about 200,000 books and 
40,000 manuscripts. 

The luperial Library of Russia, about 
650,000 books and 21,000 manuscripts. 

The Copenhagen Library, about 
£00,000 books and 15,000 manuscripts. 


Lib’ya. Africa, or all the north of 
Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic 
Ocean. It was the Greek name for 
Africa in general, The Romans used 
the word sometimes as synonymous with 
Africa, and sometimes for the fringe 
containing Carthage. 


Licen’tiate (4 syl.) One who has a 
licence to practise some art or faculty, 
as a licentiate of medicine. 

Lich. A dead body. (Anglo-Saxon, 
le; German, leiche.) 

Lich-field, in Staffordshire. The field 
of the dead, i.e. of the martyred Chris- 
tians, 

Lich-fowls, Birds that feed on carrion, 
as night-rayens, etc. 

Lich-gate. The shed or covered place 
at the entrance of churchyards, intended 
to afford shelter to the coftin and mourn- 
ers, while they wait for the clergyman 
to conduct the cortege into the church. 

Lieh-owl. The screech-owl, supersti- 
tiously supposed to foretell death. 

Lich-wake or Lyke-wake. The funeral 
feast or the waking of a corpse, 1.6. 
watching it all night. 

Lich-way. The path by which a 
funeral is conveyed to church, which not 
unfrequently deviates from the ordinary 
road, It was long supposed that wher- 
ever a dead body passed became a public 
thoroughfare. 


Lichten. Belonging to the lich- 
ground or cemetery. In Chichester, just 
outside the city walls on the east, are 
what the common people call the lightnen 
or liten schools, a corruption of lichten 
schoo!s, so termed because they stand on 
a part of the ancient Saxon lich-acre. 
The spelling usually adopted for these 
schools is ‘‘ htten.”’ 


Lick, as J licked him. 
beat him. (Welsh, d/ach, a slap, verb 
llachian ; Anglo - Saxon, s/ic-an, to 
strike, or slick.) 

Lick into Shape (70). According 
to tradition the cubs of bears are cast 
shapeless, and remain so till the dam has 
licked them into proper form. 


“So watchful Bruin forms, with plastic care, 
Each growing lump, and brings it τὸ ἃ hear.” 
Pope; Dunciad, i, 101. 


I flogged or 


Lick the Dust 


7 


Ὁ 


1 Liebenstein 


Lick the Dust (10). To fall in 
battle. 

“His enemies shall lick the dust.’’— Psalm 
1xxil. 9. 

Licks the Butter. The very dogs 76- 
fused to lick the butter from his forehead. 
Before the dead body of a Parsee is re- 
moved from the house, the forehead is 
smeared with clarified butter or ghee, 
and the dogs of the house are admitted. 
If the dog or dogs lick the butter, it is a 
good omen ; if not, it signifies perdition. 


Lickspittle (4). A servile toady. 
“ His heart too great, though fortune little, 
To lick a rascal statesman’s spittle.” Swift. 
Licters. Binders (Latin, Jigo, to bind 
or tie). These Roman officers were so 
called because they bound the hands and 
feet of criminals before they executed 
the sentence of thelaw. (Aulus Gellius.) 


“The lictors at that word, tall yeomen all and 
strong. 
Each with his axe and sheaf of twigs, went 
down into the throng.” 
Macaulay: Virginia. 


Lida. Anglo-Saxon, //id ; Dutch and 
Danish, lid. ‘‘Close”’ is the Latin 
supine ¢lus-1. 


Lidskial'fa [the terror of nations]. 
The throne of Alfader, whence he can 
view the whole universe. (Scandinavian 
anythology.) 


Lie. (Anglo-Saxon, /ige, a falsehood.) 


Father of lies. Satan (John viii. 44). 

The greatest le. The four P’s (a 
Palmer, a Pardoner, a Poticary, and a 
Pedlar) disputed as to which could tell 
the greatest lie. The Palmer said he had 
never seen a woman out of patience; 
whereupon the other three P’s threw up 
the sponge, saying such a falsehood 
could not possibly be outdone. (Hey- 
wood : The Four P’s.) 

White lies. (See WHITE.) 


Lie Circumstantial (716) or The lie 
with circumstance, Sir, if you said so, it 
was alie. As Touchstone says, this in- 
sult is voidable by this means—‘‘ If you 
said so, I said it was ἃ lie,’’ but the word 
‘if’? makes the insult hypothetical. 
This is the lie direct in the second degree 
or once removed. (See COUNTERCHECK.) 


Lie Direct (Ze). Sir, that’s a lie. 
You are a liar. This is an offence no 
gentleman can take. 

“One day as I was walking, with my customary 
swagger, 

Says a fellow to me, ‘Pistol, you're a coward, 

_though a bragger.’ 

Now, this was an indignity no gentleman could 

take, sir ; 

So I told him flat 


and plump, ‘ ie— 
a mistake. gir),’” pies) Powe under 


Lie Quarrelsome (TZic). To tell 
one flat and plump ‘‘ You 116.᾽ Touch- 
stone calls this ‘“‘ the countercheck 
quarrelsome.”’ 


“Tf again [the fifth time] it was not well cut, he 
would say J lied: this is called the countercheck 
quarrelsome.’ "—Shakespeare: As You Like It, y. 4. 


Lie hath no Feet (4). Because it 
cannot stand alone. In fact, a 116 wants 
twenty others to support it, and even 
then is in constant danger of tripping. 


Lie. (Anglo-Saxon, licgan, to’bide cr 
rest; but lie, to deceive, is the Anglo- 
Saxon verb /edg-an.) 

“Lie heavy on him, earth, for he 
Laid many a heavy load on thee. 

This is part of Dr. Evans’s epitaph on 
Sir John Vanbrugh, the comic poet, 
herald, and architect. The ‘‘ heavy 
loads’’ referred to were Blenheim, Green- 
wich Hospital (which he finished), Castle 
Howard in Yorkshire, and other massive 
buildings. (1666-1726.) 


Lie Low (70). 
or one’s intentions. 

“All this while Brer Rabbit lay low.”— Uncle 
Remus. 

Lie Over (70). To be deferred ; as, 
this question must lie over till next 
sessions. 

Lie-to (70). To stop the progress of 
a vessel at sea by reducing the sails and 
counterbracing the yards ; to cease from 
doing something. A nautical phrase. 

“We nowran plump into a fog,and were obliged 
to Le-to.”"—Lord Dufferin. 

Lie Up (Zo). To refrain from work ; 
to rest. 


Lie at the Catch (70). Thus Talka- 
tive says to Faithful, ‘‘ You lie at the 
catch, I perceive.’? To which Faithful 
replies, ‘‘No, not I; I am only for 
setting things right.’’ “ΤῸ le at the 
catch,’’ or lie on the catch, is to lie in 
wait or to lay a trap to catch one. 

Lie in State (70). ‘“‘Etreccuché sur 
un lit de parade.” A dead body dis- 
played to the general public. 


Lie on Hand (70). To remain un- 
sold. ‘‘Rester depuis longtemps en main.” 


Lie to One’s Work (70). To work 
energetically. 


Lie with One’s Fathers (70). To 
be buried in one’s native place, ‘‘Reposer 
avee ses péeres.” 

“J will lie with my fathers, and thou skalt 
carry me out of Egypt.”—Genesis x1 vil. 20. 

Liebenstein and Sternfels. Two 
ruined castles of the Rhine, According 
to tradition, Leoline, the orphan, was 


To conceal oneself 


Liege 


oe 


Lift up 


—=- 


the sole surviving child of the lord of 
Liebenstein ; and two brothers, named 
Warbeck and Otho, were the surviving 
children of the lord of Sternfels. Both 
the brothers fell in love with Leoline ; 
but, as Leoline gave the preference to 
Otho, Warbeck joined the Crusades, A 
Templar in time persuaded Otho to do 
the same; but, the war being over, Otho 
stayed at Constantinople, where he fell 
in love with a Greek, whom he brought 
home for his bride. Leoline retired to 
the adjacent convent of Bornhofen. 
Warbeck defied his brother to single 
combat for this insult to his betrothed ; 
but Leoline with the nuns interposed to 
prevent the fight. The Greek wife, in 
time, eloped with one of the inmates of 
Sternfels, and Otho died childless. A 
band of robbers broke into the convent; 
but Warbeck armed in its defence. He 
repelled the robbers, but received his 
death-wound, and died in the lap of 
Leoline; thus passed away the last lord 
of Liebenstein. (Z’raditions of the Rhine.) 


Liege. The word means one bound, 
a bondsman (Latin, Zigo, to bind) ; hence, 
vassals were called licge-men—i.e. men 
bound to serve their lord. The lord was 
called the Jiege-lord, being bound to 
protect the vassals. 

“Unarmed and bareheaded, on his knees, and 
with his hands placed between those of his lord, 
he [the military tenant] repeated these words: 
‘Hear, my lord, I haye become your liegeman of 
life and limb, and earthly worship ; and faith and 
truth T will bear to you to live and die.”“—Lin- 
gard: IHistory of England, vol. ii, chap. i. p. 27. 

Lien. A bond. (Latin, liga'men). 
Legally, a bond on goods for a debt; a 
right to retain goods in a creditor’s 
hands till he has satisfied a legal claim 
for debt. 


Liesse (2 syl.). Abbé de Liesse or 
Abbas Letitia. 'The French term for the 
“ΒΟΥ Bishop,’”’ or ‘‘ Abbot of Unrea- 
son.’’ (See ABBOT.) 


Lieutenant (pronounce /ef-ten'-wnt) 
is the Latin /ocum-tencns, through the 
French. A Lieutenant-Colonel is the 
Colonel’s deputy. The Lord-Lieutenant 
of Ireland is a viceroy who represents 
the crown in that country. 


Life. (Anglo-Saxon, /if.) 

Draun from life. Drawn or described 
from some existing person or object. 

For life. As long as life continues. 

For the life of me. Trueas Lam alive, 
Even if my life depended onit. Astrong 
asseveration. 

“Nor could J, for the life of me, see how the 


creation of the world had anything to do with 


What T was talking about.”—Goldsmith : Vicar 
Wakefield. § abo Goldsmith : Vicar of 


Is life worth living 2 Schopenhauer 
decides in the negative. In the ‘‘ fune- 
ral service’’ we are taught to thank God 
for delivering the deceased ‘‘ out of the 
miseries of this sinful life.’ On the 
other hand, weare told that Jesus called 
Lazarus from the grave, not by way of 
punishment, but quite the contrary. 

“On days like this, one feels that Schopenharer 
is wrong after all, and that life is someth nz 
really worth living for."—Grant Allen: The Curate 
of Churnside, 

Large as life. Of the same size as the 
object represented, 

On my life. I will answer for it ly 
my life; as, “ Id le fera j’en répondes sur 
ma vie.” 

To bear a charmed life. To eseape 
accidents in a marvellous manner. 

Toknow life. In French, “Savoirvirre? 
—that is, ‘Savoir ce que Cest que de 
vivre.’ ‘* Not to know life,’’ is the 
contrary—‘‘ Ne savoir pas ce que cest 
que de vivre.” 

To the life. In exact imitation. 
“Done to the 116. « Fire le portrat 
de quelgwun aw naturel” (or) “ @apres 
nature.” 


Life-boat (4). <A boat rendered 
especially buoyant for the purpose of 
saving those who are in peril of their 
life at sea. 


Life-buoy (4). A float to sustain 
two or more persons in danger of being 
drowned at sea. 


Life-Guards. Two senior regiments 
of the mounted body-guard, comprising 
878 men, all six feet high ; hence, a fine, 
tall, manly fellow is called ‘‘a regular 
Life-guardsman.” 


Life Policy (4). An assurance to be 
paid after the death of the person. 


᾽ 


Life Preserver (4). <A buoyant 
jacket, belt, or other appliance, to sup- 
port the human body in water; also a 
loaded staff or knuckle-duster for self- 
defence. 


Lift. Zo have one at a lift is to have 
one in your power. When a wrestler 
has his antagonist in his hands and lifts 
him from the ground, he has him ‘‘at a 
lift,’’ or in his power, 

“«Sirra, says he, ‘I have you at a lift. 

Now you are come unto your latest shift.’” 
Percy : Reliques ; Guy and Amarant. 

Lift not up your Horn on High. 
(Psalm xxv, 5.) Do not behave scorn- 
fully, maliciously, or arrogantly. (See 
under HORN.) 


Lift up the Heel against Me (7). 
To kick me (physically or morally) ; to 


Lift “up 


753 


Light 


treat with contumely or contempt: to 
oppose, to become an enemy. As an 
unruly horse kicks the master who trusts 
and feeds him. 

“Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I 
trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted 
his heel against me.”"—Psalm xli. 9. 

Lift up the Voice (70). 'Toshout or 
cry aloud; to utter a cry of joy or 
of sorrow. 

“Saul lifted up his voice and wept.’—1 Sam. 
xxiv. 16. 

Litted up. Put to death; to raise on 
a cross or gibbet. 

“When ye have lifted np the Son of Man, then 
shall ye know that Iam He."—Jobn vii. 28, 

Lifter. A thief. We still call one 
who plunders shops a ‘‘ shop-lifter.”’ 

“Ts he so young a man,andso olda lifter?” 

Shakespeare: Troilus and Cressida, i. 2. 

Lifting (Zhe). In Scotland means 
lifting the coffin on the shoulders of the 
bearers. Certain ceremonies preceded 
the funeral. 


“When at the funeral of an ordinary hushand- 
man. one o'clock was named as the hour for *lift- 
ing, the party began to assemble two hours 
previously.’"—Saladin: Agnostic Journal, Jan. 14, 
1893, p. 27. 

At the first service were offered meat 
and ale; at the second, shortbread and 
whisky; at the third, seed-cake and 
wine; at the fourth, currant-bun and 
rum; at the last, sugar-biscuits and 
brandy. 


Lifting, or Lifting the Little Fin- 
ger. Tippling. In holding a beaker or 
glass, most persons stick out or lift up 
the little finger. ‘‘ Lifting’’ is a con- 
tracted form of the full phrase. 


Ligan. Goods thrown overboard, 
but tied to a cork or buoy in order to be 
found again. (Latin ligdare, to tie or 
bind.) 

Flotsam. The débris of a wreck 
which floats on the surface of the sea, 
and is often washed ashore. (Latin 
flotare, to float.) 

Jetson or jetsam. Goods thrown over- 
board in a storm to lighten the vessel. 
(Latin jacére, to cast forth, through the 
French jeter.) 


Light. Life. Othellosays, ‘‘ Put out 
the light and then put out the light.’’ 
In May, 1886, Abraham Harper, a mar- 
ket-gardener, of Oxford, hit his wife in 
the face, and threatened to ‘“ put her 
light out,’? for which he was fined 5s. 
and costs. (Truth, May 20th, 1886.) 


Light. Graces, holiness. Called 
““the candle of the Lord,” the ‘‘lamp of 


48 


God,”’ as, ‘‘The spirit of man is the 
lamp of the Lord.”’ (Prov. xx. 27.) 
“Let your light so shine before men that they 
may see your good works.”’— Matt. v. 16. 
To stand in one’s own light. To actin 
such a way as to hinder advancement. 


“He stands in his own light through nervous 
fear.’—The Leisure Hour, 1836. 


Light Comedian (4), in theatrical 
parlance, is one who performs in what 
is called legitimate comedy, but is very 
different to the ‘‘ low comedian,”’ who is 
afarceur. Orlando, in As You Like It, 
might be taken by a ‘‘ light comedian,” 
but not by a “low comedian.”’ Tony 
Lumpkin and Paul Pry are parts for a 
‘‘low comedian,’’? but not for a ‘light 
comedian.”’ 


Light Horsemen. Those who live 
by plunder by night. Those who live 
by plunder in the daytime are Heavy 
Horsemen. These horsemen take what 
they can crib aboard ship, such as coffee- 
beans, which they call pease; sugar, 
which they call sand ; rum, which they 
called vinegar, and so on. The broker 
who buys these stolen goods and asks no 
questions is calleda fence. (See Captain 
Marryat: Poor Jack, chap. xvii.) 


Light Troops, i.c. light cavalry, 
meaning Lancers and Hussars, who are 
neither such large men’as the *t Heavies,”’ 
nor yet so tall. (See LIGHT-ARMED 
ARTILLERY.) 


Light-armed Artillery. The Royal 
Horse Artillery. The heavy artillery 
are the garrison artillery. _ 


Light asa Feather. (Sve SIMILES.) 


Light-fingered Gentry (Z/c). Pick- 
pockets and shop-lifters. 


Light Gains make a heavy Purse. 
Small profits and a quick return, is the 
best way of gaining wealth. French, 
“* Te petit gain remplit la bourse ;”’ 
Italian, “1 guadagni medioceri empiono la 
borsa.” 


Light of Qne’s Countenance (7/7). 
The bright smile of approbation and 
love. 

“ Lift up the light of Thy countenance on us.’— 
Psalm iv. 6. 

Light of the Age. Maimon'idés or 
Rabbi Moses ben Maimon, of Cor’dova 
(1135-1204). 

Light of the Harem. The Sultana 
Nourmahal’, afterwards called Nowr- 
jehan (Light of the World). She was 
the bride of Selim. (Zhomas Moore : 
Lalla Rookh.) 


Lighthouse 


Lilis 


Lighthouse. The most celebrated of 
antiquity was the one erected by Ptolemy 
Soter in the island of Pharos, opposite 
Alexandria. Josephus says it could be 
seen at the distance of 42 miles. It was 
one of the ‘‘seven wonders’’ of the 
ancient world. 

Of modern lighthouses the most famous 
are the Eddystone, 14 miles S.W. of Ply- 
mouth Sound; the Tour de Corduan, at 
the entrance of the Gironde, in France ; 
and the Bell Rock, which is opposite the 
Frith of Tay. 

The largest lighthouses are:—(1) The 
lighthouse at Hell Gate in New York, 
250 feet high, with 9 electric lamps of 
6,000 candle-power each. (2) The Bar- 
tholdi Statue of Liberty, in New York 
harbour, 220 feet high. (8) One in 
Genoa, Italy, 210 feet in height. (4) 
Cape Hatteras Light, which is 189 feet 
high. (5) Eddystone Lighthouse is 89 
feet high, and lights a radius of 17 miles. 


Lightning [Barca]. Hamilcar of 
Carthage was called ‘‘ Barca,’’? both on 
account of the rapidity of his march and 
also for the severity of his attacks. (8.6, 
247-228.) 

Chain lightning. Two or more flashes of light- 
ning repeated without intermission. 

Forked lightning. Zig-zag lightning. 

Globular lightning. A meteoric ball [of fire], 
which sometimes falls on the earth and flies off 
with an explosion. 

Lightning Conductor. A metal rod 
raised above a building with one end in 
the earth, to carry off the lightning and 
prevent its injuring the building. 

τ It must be pointed at the top extremity to 
ensure a quiet discharge. 

Lightning Preservers. The most 
approved classical preservatives against 
lightning were the eagle, the sea-calf, 
and the laurel. Jupiter chose the first, 
Augustus Cesar the second, and Tiberius 
the third.  (Colwmella, x.; Sweton. in 
Vit. Aug., xc.; ditto in Vit. Trb., 1xix.) 
(See HoUSE-LEEK. ) 

Bodies scathed and persons struck 
dead Ly lightning were said to be incor- 
ruptible; and anyone so distinguished 
was held by the ancients in great honour. 
Ge 4 Bullenger : De Terre Motu, etc., 
γὺ 1]- 


Lightning Proof. A building pro- 
tected by lightning conductors (one or 
more). 


Lightning Rod (4). 
NING CONDUCTOR.) 
_Liguo’rians, A congregation of mis- 
sionary priests called also Redemptorists, 
founded in 1732, by St. Alphonsus 


(See LicHt- 


Liguo'ri. Their object is the religious 
instruction of the people, and the reform 
of public morality. 

Ligurian Arts. Deception, trickery. 

Ligurian Republic (77,6). Venetia, 
Genoa, and a part of Sardinia, tied up 
in one bundle by Napoleon I. in 1797, 
and bound with a constitution similar to 
that of the French ‘‘ Directory,”’ so called 
from Ligu’ria, pretty well commensurate 
with these districts. It no longer exists. 


Ligurian Sage (716). Aulus Persiurs 
Flaccus, born at Volaterre, in Etruria, 
according to ancient authors; and at 
Lunexw Portus, in Liguria, according to 
some modern authorities. (A.D. 34-62.) 
(See Satives, vi. 6.) 


Lilburn Shawl. The name of a 
place in Wensleydale, Yorkshire. Shawl 
is shaw, a hill; shaw’l = shaw-hill. 


Lilburne. Jf vo one else were alive, 
John would quarrel with Lilburne. John 
Lilburne was a contentious Leveller in 
the Commonwealth; so rancorous against 
rank that he could never satisfy himself 
that any two persons were exactly on 
the same level. (See Lawsuits.) 

“Ts John departed ? and is Lilburne gone ? 
Farewell to both—to Lilburne and to John. 
Yet, being gone, take this advice from me: 

Let them not both in one grave buried be. 

Here lay ve Jobn, lay Lilburne thereahout ; 

For if they both should meet, they would fall 

out.” Epigrammatic Epitaph. 

Lil’inau was wooed by a phantom 
that lived in her father’s pines. At 
nightfall the phantom whispered love, 
and won the fair Lilinau, who followed 
his green waving plume through the 
forest, and was never seen again. 
(American-Indian tradition.) 


Lilis or Lilith (Rabbinical inytho- 
logy). The Talmudists say that Adam 
had a wife before Eve, whose name was 
Lilis. Refusing to submit to Adam, she 
left Paradise for a region of the air. 
She still haunts the night as a spectre, 
and is especially hostile to new-born 
infants. Some superstitious Jews still 
put in the chamber occupied by their 
wife four coins, with labels on which the 
names of Adam and Eve are inscribed, 
with the words, ‘‘ Avaunt thee, Lilith !”’ 
Goethe has introduced her in his Faust. 
(See LAMIA.) 


“Tt was Lilith, the wife of Adam... 
Not a drop of her blood was human, 
But she was made like a soft sweet woman.” 
D.G. Rossetti: Eden Bower. 


“ The fable of Lilis or Lilith was in- 
vented to reconcile Gen. i. with Gen. ii. 
Genesis i. represents the simultaneous 


TLilli-Burlero 75: 


eS σ΄-.-.-. - 


creation of man and woman out of the 
earth ; but Genesis ii. represents that 
Adam was alone, and Eve was made out 
of a rib, and was given to Adam as a 
helpmeet for him. 


Lilli-Burle'ro or Lilli-Bulle'ro and 
Bullen-a-lah. Said to have been the 
words of distinction used by the Irish 
Papists in their massacres of the Pro- 
testants in 1641. A song with the re- 
frain of ‘ Lilli-burlero, bullen-a-la! ”’ 
was written by Lord Wharton, which 
had a more powerful effect than the 
philippics of either Demosthenés or 
Cicero, and contributed not a little to 
the great revolution of 1688. Burnet 
says, ‘‘It made an impression on the 
[king’s] army that cannot be imagined. 
. . . The whole army, and at last the 
people, both in city and country, were 
singing it perpetually . . . never had so 
slight a thing so great an effect.’’ The 
song is in Percy’s Leliques of Ancient 
English Poetry, series ii. bk. 3. (See 
Sterne: Tristram Shandy, chap. 11.) 

“ Lilli bullero, lilli bullero bullen a la, 


Lero lero, lilli bullero, lero lero bullen a Ja, 
Leruw lero, lilli bullero, lero lero bullen a la.” 


Mr. Chappell attributes the air to 
Henry Purcell. 


Lilliput. The country of pigmies 
called ‘‘ Lilliputians,’’ to whom Gulliver 
wasagiant. (Swift: Gulliver’s Travels.) 

Lily (Zhe). There is a tradition that 
the lily sprang from the repentant tears 
of Eve as she went forth from Paradise. 

Lily in Christian art is an emblem of 
chastity, innocence, and purity. In pic- 
tures of the Annunciation, Gabriel is 
sometimes represented as carrying a 
lily-branch, while a vase containing a 
lily stands before the Virgin, who is 
kneeling in prayer. St. Joseph holds 
a lily-branch in his hand, to show that 
his wife Mary was always the virgin. 

Tiiy. (Emblem of France.) Tasso, 
in his Jerusalem Delivered, terms the 
French Gigli d’oro (golden lilies). It is 
said the people were commonly called 
Tiharts, and the kingdom JLz/immn in the 
time of Philippe le Bel, Charles VIIL., 
and Louis XII. They were so called 
from the jlewr-de-lys, the emblem of 
France. 


“Tsaw my country’s lily torn.” 
Bloomfield. (A Frenchman is speaking.) 


“The burghers of Ghent were bound by solemn 
oath not to make war upon the lilies."—Milling- 
ton: Heraldry, i. 


Lily of France. The device of Clovis 
was three black toads, but an aged her- 
mit of Joye-en-valle saw a miraculous 
light stream one night into his cell, and 


Limbo 


an angel appeared to him holding a 
shield of wonderful beauty ; its colour 
was azure, and on it were emblazoned 
three gold lilies that shone lke stars, 
which the hermit was commanded to 
give to Queen Clotilde. Scarcely had 
the angel vanished when Clotilde entered, 
and, receiving the celestial shield, gave 
it to her royal husband, whose arms 
were everywhere victorious. (See Les 
Petits Bollandistes, vol. vi. p. 426.) 

“Un hermite apporta ἃ la ditte royne vn drap 
d'azur a Trois Flevrs de Lis d'or, que lange luy 
auoit donnee et le deliura la ditte royne a son 
mary le roy Clovis pour le porter comme ses armes 
en Heu qwil les portoit dor a trois crapayz de 
sable."—Chiglet. 

‘The kings of France were called 
‘¢ Lords of the Silver Lilies.” 

*t Florence is called ‘‘The City of 
Lilies.”’ 


Lily of the Valley. The Conval- 
laria majalis (the May valley plant) ; 
one of the species is Solomon’s seal. 
It is by no means the case that the 
Convallaria grow only in valleys, al- 
though they prefer shady places. 


This is not the lily (Matt. vi. 28) which is 
said to excel “Solomon in all his glory.”= The 
Lilium Candidum is the flower alluded to by our 
Lord ; a tall majestic plant, common in Palestine, 
and known by us as the Garden Lily. It is hell- 
shaped, with white petals and golden yellow 
stamens. Jahn (Arch@ologia Biblica, p.125) tells 
us that “at festivals the rich and powerful robed 
themselves in white cotton, which was considered 
the most splendid dress.” 


Lily Maid of Astelat. (See ELAINE.) 


Lim Hay. Lick it up like Lim hay. 
Lim, on the Mersey, is famous for its 
excellent hay. 


Limb. 70 tear limb from Warburton. 
Lymm cum Warburton forms one rec- 
tory in Cheshire. The play is on limb 
and Lymm. 


Limb of the Law (4). A lawyer, or 
a clerk articled to a lawyer. The hands 
are limbs of the body, and the lawyer’s 
clerks are his hands to copy out what the 
head of the office directs. 


Limberham. A tame, foolish keeper. 
The character is in Dryden’s comedy of 
Limberham, or the Kind Keeper, aud is 
supposed to satirise the Duke of Lau- 
derdale. 


Limbo. A waste-basket; a place 
where things are stowed, too good to 
destroy but not good enough to use, In 
School theology unbaptised infants and 
good heathens go to Limbo. (Latin, 
limbus, the edge.) They cannot go to 
heaven, because they are not baptised, 
and they cannot go to the place of tor- 
ment, because they have not committed 


Limbus 


sin at all, or because their good prepon- 


derates. (See Milton: Paradise Lost, 
bk. iii.) (See ARAF.) 

In limbo. Go to limbo — that is, 
prison. 


Limbus, preceded by in or to becomes 
Zimbo—as, in limbo, to limbo. Occa- 
sionally, /imbo stands for limbus. 


Limbus Fatuorum. ‘The Limbus 
of Fools, or Fool’s Paradise. As fools 
are not responsible for their works, they 
are not punished in Purgatory, but can- 
not be received into Heaven ; so ee go 
to a place called the Paradise of Fools. 

“Then might you see 
Cowls, hoods, and habits, with their wearers 
tossed δ 

And fluttered into rags ; then relics, beads, 

Tndulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls, 

The sport of winds. All these, upwhirled aloft, 

Tnto a Limbo large and broad, since called 

The Paradise of Fools.” ae 

Milton: Paradise Lost, book iii. 489-95. 


** One cannot wonder that Milton’s 
great poem was placed by the Catholics 
in the Index of books forbidden. 


Limbus Patrum. The half-way 
house between earth and heaven, where 
the patriarchs and prophets, after death, 
await the coming of Messiah. Accord- 
ing to the Roman Catholic notion, this 
is the ‘‘hell,’’ or hadés, into which Jesus 
Christ descended after He gave up the 
ghost on the cross. Limbo, and some- 
times Limbo patrum, is used for ‘‘quod,”’ 
jail, confinement. 

“T have some of them in limbo patrum, and 
there they are like to dance these three days,’— 
Shakespeare: Henry VIII., v. 4. 

Limbus Puero/rum. The Child’s 
Paradise, for children who die before 
they are responsible for their actions, 


Limbus of the Moon. Jn the limbo 
of the moon. Ariosto (in his Orlando 
Furioso, Xxxiv. 70) says, in the moon are 
treasured up such stores as these: Time 
misspent in play, all vain efforts, all 
vows never paid, all intentions which 
lead to nothing, the vanity of titles, 
flattery, the promises of princes, death- 
bed alms, and other like vanities. 

“ There heroes’ wits are kept in ponderous yases, 
And beaux’ in snuff-boxes and tweezer-cases ; 


There broken vows and death-bed alms are 
found, 


And lovers’ hearts with ends of ribbon bound ; 

The courtier’s promises and sick man’s prayers, 

The smiles of harlots, and the tears of heirs.” 

Pope: Rape of the Lock, 115-120, 

Lime Street, London. The place 
where, in former times, lime was sold in 
public market. It gives its name to one 
of the wards of London. 


Limited Liability. The liability of 
a shareholder in a company only for a 


756 


Lincolnshire 


fixed amount, generally the amount of 
the shares he has subscribed for. The 
Limited Liability Act was passed 1855, 


Limner. A drawer, a painter, an 
artist. A contraction of i//wminator, or 
rather /wmenier (one who illuminates 
manuscripts). 

“The limner, or illuminer . . . throws us back 
on a time when the illumination of MSS. was a 
leading occupation of the painter.’—Trench: On 
the Study of Words, lecture ly. p. 171. 

Limp. Formed of the initial letters 
of Louis (XIV.), James, Mary, Prince 
(of Wales). A Jacobite toast in the time 
of William IIT, (See Norarica.) 


Lina. The Goddess Flax, 
“ Tnventress of the woof, fair Lina flings 
The flying shuttle through the dancing strings.” 
Darwin: Loves of the Plants, canto ti. 
Lincoln. A contraction of Lindun- 
colonia. Lindum was an old British 
town, called Llyn-dune (the fen-town), 
If we had not known the Latin name, 
we should have given the etymology 
Llyn-collyne (the fen-hill, or hill near the 
pool), as the old city was on a hill. 
The devil looks over Lincoln. 
DEVIL.) 


Lincoln College (Oxford). Founded 
by Richard Fleming in 1427), and com- 
pleted by Rotherham, Bishop of Lin- 
coln, in 1479, 


Lincoln Green. Lincoln, at one 
time, was noted for its green, Coventry 
for its blue, and Yorkshire for its grey. 
(See KENDAL GREEN.) 

“And girls in Lincoln green.” 
Drayton: Polyolbion, xxv. 

Falstaff speaks of Kendal Green 

(Westmoreland), 1 Hen. IV., 11. 4.) 


“ Here he a sort of ragged knaves come in, ἴ 
Clothed all in Kendale green.” 
Plays of Robyn Hood. " 


Lincoln’s Inn. One of the fashion- 
able theatres in the reign of Charles 11. 


Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London. 
Henry Lacy, Earl of Lincoln, built an 
inn (mansion) here in the 14th century. 
The ground belonged to the Black Friars, 
but was granted by Edward I. to Lacy. 
Later, one of the bishops of Chichester, 
in the reign of Henry VII., granted leases 
here to certain students of law. 


Lincolnshire Bagpipes. The croak- 
ing of frogs in the Lincolnshire fens. 
We have Cambridgeshire nightingales, 
meaning frogs; fen nightingales, the 
Liége nightingale. In a somewhat simi- 
lar way asses are called ‘‘ Arcadian 
nightingales.”’ 


“Melancholy as...the drone of a Lincolor 
shire bagpipe. ’—Shakespeare : 1 Hen, IV, 1. 2. 


(See 


Tindabrides 757 


Line upon Line 


Lindabrides. A heroine in The 
Mirror of Knighthood, whose name at 
one time was a synonym for a kept 
mistress, in which sense it was used by 
Scott, Kenilworth and Woodstock. 


Linden Tree (4). Baucis was con- 
verted into a linden tree. Philémon and 
Baucis were poor cottagers of Phrygia, 
who entertained Jupiter so hospitably 
that he promised to grant them whatever 
request they made. They asked that 
both might die together, and it was so. 
At death Philémon became an oak and 
Baucis a linden tree. _Their branches 
intertwined at the top. 


Lindor, A poetic swain of the Cor'y- 
don type, alover ex bergére. 

“Do not, for heaven's sake, bring down Corydon 
and Lindor upon us.’—Sir Walter Scott. 

Line. Trade, business. 

What line are you in 5 What trade or 

rofession are you of? ‘In the book 
ine’’-—i.e, the book trade. This is a 
Scripture phrase. ‘‘ The lines have fallen 
to me in pleasant places, yea, I have a 
goodly heritage.’? The allusion is to 
drawing a line to mark out the lot of 
each tribe, hence line became the syno- 
nym of lot, and lot means position or 
destiny ; and hence a calling, trade, or 
profession. Commercial travellers use 
the word frequently to signify the sort 
of goods which they have to dispose of ; 
as, one travels ‘‘in the hardware line,”’ 
another ‘‘in the drapery line,’’ or 
“ grocery line,’’ ete. 


Line (Zhe). The equator. 
CrossING THE LINE.) 

The deep-sea line. A long line marked 
at every five fathoms, for sounding the 
depth of the sea, 

The line. All regiments of infantry 
except the foot-guards, the rifle brigade, 
the marines, the militia, and the volun- 
teers. 

Line a Day (4). (‘ Nulla dies sine 
linca.”’) Apelles the artist said he never 
ΤΕΣ a day without doing at least one 

ine, and to this steady industry he owed 
his great success. 


Line of Battle. The order of troops 
drawn up so as to present a battle-front. 
There are three lines—the van, the main 
body, and the rear. A fleet drawn up 
in line of battle is so arranged that the 
ships are ahead and astern of each other 
at stated distances, 

All along the line, in every particular. 
The reference is to line of soldiers. 


“The accuracy of the statement is contested 
all along the line by persons on the spot.”—W. £. 
Gladstone (Newspaper report). 


(See 


To break the enemy’s line is to derange 
their order of battle, and so put them to 
confusion, 


Line of Beauty, according to Ho- 
garth, is a curve thus _~ ~. Mengs 
was of the same opinion, but thought it 
should be more serpentine. Of course, 
these fancies are not tenable, for the line 
which may be beautiful for one object 
would be hideous in another. What 
would Hogarth have said to a nose or 
mouth which followed his line of beauty ? 


Line of Communication, or rather 
Lines of Communication, are trenches 
made to continue and preserve a safe 
correspondence between two forts, or 
two approaches to a besieged city, or 
between two parts of the same army, 
in order that they may co-operate with 
each other. 


Line of Demarcation. The line 
which divides the territories of different 
proprietors. The space between two 
opposite doctrines, opinions, rules of 
conduct, ete. 


Line of Direction. The line in 
which a body moves, a force acts, or 
motion is communicated. In order that 
a body may stand without falling, a line 
let down from the centre of gravity 
must fall within the base on which the 
object stands. Thus the leaning tower 
of Pisa does not fall, because this rule is 
preserved. 


Line of Life (7/e). In French, La 
ligne de vie. So also, line of duty, La 
ligne du devoir, ete. In palmistry, the 
crease in the left hand beginning above 
the web of the thumb, and running 
towards or up to the wrist is so called. 

The nearer it approaches the wrist the longer 
will be the life, according to palm-lorists. If long 
and deeply marked, it indicates long life with 
very little trouble; if crossed or cut with other 
marks, it indicates sickness. 

Line of March. The ground from 
point to point over which an army 


moves. 


Line of Operation (712) in war. 
The line between the base of opera- 
tion (q.v.) and the object aimed at. 
Thus, if a fleet is the base and the siege 
of a city is the object aimed at, the line 
of operation is that drawn from the fleet 
to the city. If a well-fortified spot is 
the base and a battle the object, the line 
of operation is that which lies between 
the fortified spot and the battle-field. 


Line upon Line. Admonition or 
instruction repeated little by little (a 
lineatatime). Apellés said ‘* Nulla dies 


Tines 


sine lined.”? A drawing is line upon 
line, an edifice is brick upon brick or 
stone upon stone. 

“Line upon line, line upon line, here a little and 
there a little.’—Isaiah xxviii. 10. 

Lines. The lines have fallen to me in 
pleasant places. The part allotted to me 
and measured off by a measuring line. 
(Palms xvi. 6.) 

Hard lines. Farsh restrictions. Here 
lines means an allotment measured out. 

To read between the lines. To discern 
the secret meaning. One method of 
cryptography is to write in alternate 
lines ; if read line by line, the meaning 
of the writer is reversed or wholly mis- 
understood. Thus lines 2, 4, 6 of the 
following cryptogram would convey the 
warning to Lord Monteagle of the Gun- 
powder Plot. 


“My lord, having just returned from Paris, 


(2) stay away from the house to-night 
and give me the pleasure of your company. 
(4) for God and man have concurred to punish 
those who pay not regard to their health, 
and 
(6) the wickedness of the time 


.-. adds greatly to its wear and tear.” 

Linen Goeds. In1721 a statute was 
passed imposing a penalty of £5 upon 
the wearer, and £20 upon the seller of, a 
piece of calico, Fifteen years later this 
statute was so far modified that calicoes 
manufactured in Great Britain were 
allowed, ‘‘ provided the warp thereof 
was entirely of lmen yarn.’”? In 1774 a 
statute was passed allowing printed cot- 
ton goods to be used on the payment of 
threepence a yard duty; in 1806 the 
duty was raised to threepence halfpenny. 
This was done to prevent the use of 
calicoes from interfering with the de- 
mand for linen and woollen stuffs. The 
law for burying in woollen was of a 
similar character. The following ex- 
tracts from a London news-letter, dated 
August 2nd, 1768, are curious. [NVote— 
chintz is simply printed calico. ] 


προ. Talk, language. <A corrup- 
tion of lingua. 

Lingua Franca. A species of cor- 
rupt Italian spoken on the coasts of the 
Mediterranean, The Franks’ language 
mixed with the Italian. 


= 4 


Linspe 


Lining of the Pocket. Money. 
“My money is spent : Can I he content 
With pockets deprived of their lining 2” 
The Lady's Decoy, or Man Midwife's 
Defence, 1738, p. 4. 

When the great court tailor wished to 
obtain the patronage of Beau Brummel, 
he made him a present of a dress-coit 
lined with bank-notes. Brummel wrote 
a letter of thanks, stating that he quite 
approved of the coat, and he especially 
admired the lining. 

Linnzan System. A system devised 
by Linneus of Sweden, who arranged 
his three kingdoms of animals, veget- 
ables, and minerals into classes, orders, 
genera, species, and varieties, according 
to certain characteristics. 

Linne (Zhe [cir of). The Lord of 
Linne was a great spendthrift, ‘‘ who 
wasted his substance in riotous living.’ 
Having spent all, he sold his estates to 
John οὐ the Scales, his steward, reserving 
to himself only a ‘‘ poor and lonesome 
lodge in a lonely glen.’? When he had 
squandered away the money received 
for his estates, and found that no one 
would lend or give him more, he retired 
to the lodge in the glen, where he found 
a rope with a running noose dangling 
over his head. He put the rope round 
his neck and sprang aloft, when lo! the 
ceiling burst in twain, and he fell to the 
ground. When he came to himself he 
espied two chests of beaten gold, and a 
third full of white money, and over 
them was written, ‘‘ Once more, my son, 
I set thee clear; amend thy life, or a 
rope at last must end it.’”? The heir of 
Linne now returned to his old hall, 
where he asked his quondam steward 
for the loan of forty pence; this was 
refused him. One of the guests proffered 
the loan, and told John o’ the Seales he 
ought to have lent it, as he had bought 
the estate cheap enough. ‘‘ Cheap call 
you it?’’ exclaimed John; “why, he 
shall have it back for 100 marks less.’’ 
“Done,”’ said the heir of Linne, and 
counted out the money. He thus re- 
covered his estates, and made the kind 
guest his forester. (Percy: Leliques, 
series li, book 2.) 

Linsey-woolsy Million (172). The 
great unwashed. The artisan class, sup- 
posed to dress in linsey-woolsy. ‘‘Broad- 
cloth”’ being for the gentry. 


“Truth needs not, John, the eloquence of oaths ; 
Not more than a decent suit of clothes 
Requires of broad gold lace th’ expensive giare, 
That makes the linsey-woolsy million stare.” 

Peter Pindar: Silvanus Urban. 


Linspe (French, 2 syl.) means a 


| prince in slang or familiar usage. It 


Lion 7: 


~ 


9 


9 Lion 


comes from the inspector or monitor of | let loose it crouched at the feet of 


the cathedral choir called the Spé or the 
Jnspé (inspector), because he had to 
superintend the rest of the boys. 


Lion (as an agnomen). 

Ap ARsLAN [the Valiant Lion], son of 
Togrul Beg, the Perso-Turkish monarch. 
(Reigned 1063-1072.) 

Att was called The Lion of God for his 
religious zeal and great courage. His 
mother called him at birth Al Haidara, 
the Rugged Lion. (A.D. 602, 655-661.) 

Att Pasa, called The Lion of Janina. 
overthrown in 1822 by Ibrahim Pasha. 
(1741, 1788-1822.) 

Anrtocn (fifth of the dynasty of Ninu, 
the Assyrian), called Arioch Ellas’ar— 
i.e. Avioch Melech al Asser, the Lion 
King of Assyria, (B.c. 1927-1897.) 

DaMELOWIEZ, Prince of Haliez, who 
founded Lemberg (Lion City) in 1259. 

Gusta'vus ADOLPHUS, called The Lion 
of the North. (1594, 1611-1632.) 

Hamza, called The Lion of God and of 
ITis Prophet. So Gabriel told Mahomet 
his uncle was enregistered in heaven. 

Henry, Duke of Bavaria ani Saxony, 


was called Zhe Lion for his daring | : 
© | Gerasimus extracted a largethorn. The 


courage. (1129-1195.) 

Lovis VIII. of France was called 7he 
Lion because he was born under the sign 
Leo. (1187, 1223-1226.) 

Ricuarp I. Cceur de Lion (Lion's 
heart), so called for his bravery. (1157, 
1189-1199.) 

Witr1aM of Scotland, so called because 
he chose a red lion rampant for his cog- 
nisance. (Reigned 1165-1214.) 

1 The Order of the Lion. A German 
Order of civil merit, founded in 1815. 

Lion (as an emblem). A lion is 
emblem of the tribe of Judah; Christ 
is culled ‘‘the lion of the tribe of Judah.”’ 


_“ Judah isa lion's whelp:... he couched as a 
lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him 
up ?"—Genesis xlix. 9 

A lion emblematie of St. Jerome. The 
tale is, that while Jerome was lecturing 
one day, a lion entered the schoolroom, 
and lifted up one of its paws. 


| fawned on him like a dog. 


All the | 


disciples fled; but Jerome, seeing that | 


the paw was wounded, drew out of 
it a thorn and dressed the wound. 


The lion, out of gratitude, showed a | 
wish to stay with its benefactor. Hence | 
Jerome is typified as a lion, or as accom- | 


panied by a lion. (Kenesman: Lives of 
the Saints, p. 784. 

Androclis and the Lion. This is 
a replica of the tale of ANDRoc'’LUs. 
Androclus was a Roman slave, con- 
demned to encounter a lion in the 
amphitheatre ; but when the beast was 


| the sun. 


the slave and began licking them. The 
circumstance naturally excited the cu- 
riosity of the consul; and the slave, 
being brought before him, told him the 
following tale: ‘‘I was compelled by 
cruel treatment to run away from your 
service while in Africa, and one day I 
took refuge in a cave from the heat of 
While I was in the cave a lion 
entered, limping, and evidently in great 
pain. Seeing me, he held up his paw, 
from which I extracted a large thorn. 
We lived together in the cave for some 
time, the lion catering for both of us, 
At length I left the cave, was appre- 
hended, brought to Rome, and con- 
demned to encounter a lion in the 
amphitheatre. My enemy was my old 
friend, and he recognised me instantly.”’ 
(A. Gellius: Noctes, v. 15.) 

St. Gerasimus and the Lion. A 
very similar tale is told of St. Grras- 
IMuS (A.D. 475). One day, being on 
the banks of the Jordan, he saw a 
lion coming to him, limping on three 
feet. When it reached the saint, it held 
up to him the right paw, from which 


grateful beast attached itself to the 
saint, and followed him about as a dog. 
(Vies des Péres des Déserts d’ Orient.) 


Sir George Davis and the Lion. Sir 


| George Davis was English consul at 


Florence at the beginning of the 19th 
century. One day he went to see the 
lions of the great Duke of Tuscany. 
There was one which the keepers could 
not tame; but no sooner did Sir George 
appear than it manifested every symp- 
tom of joy. Sir George entered its cage, 
when the lion leaped on his shoulder, 
licked his face, wagged its tail, and 
Sir George 
told the great duke that he had brought 
up the creature ; but as it grew older it 
became dangerous, and he sold it to a 
Barbary captive. The duke said that he 
had bought it of the very sam2 man, and 
the mystery was solved. 

Half a score of such tales are told by 
the Bollandistes in the Acta Sanctorum. 
. The lion an emblem of the resurrection. 
According to tradition, the lion’s whelp 
is born dead, and remains so for three 
days, when the father breathes on it and 
it receives life. Another tradition is 
that the lion is the only animal of the 
cat tribe born with its eyes open, and it 
is said that it sleeps with its eyes open. 
This is not strictly correct, but undoubt- 
edly it sleeps watchfully and lichtly. 

Mark the Evangelist is symbolised by 


Lion 

a lion, because he begins his gospel with 
the scenes of John the Baptist and Jesus 
in the Wilderness. Matthew is sym- 
bolised by a man, because he begins his 
gospel with the humanity of Jesus, as a 
descendant of David. Luke is symbol- 
ised as a calf, because he begins his 
gospel with the priest sacrificing in the 
temple. John is symbolised by an eagle, 
because he soars high, and begins his 
gospel with the divinity of the Logos. 
The four symbols are those of Ezekiel’s 
cherubim, 

The American lion. The puma. 

A Cotswold lion. A sheep. 


Lion (grateful for kindness) :— 


Anproco’Lus, (See under Lion as an 
emblem.) 

Str Iwatn DE GALLES was attended 
by a lion, which, in gratitude to the 
knight, who had delivered it from a 
serpent with which it had been engaged 
in deadly combat, ever after became his 
faithful servant, approaching the knight 
with tears, and rising on his hind-feet 
like a dog, 

Srr GEOFFREY DE LATOUR was aided 
by a lion against the Saracens; but the 
faithful brute was drowned in attempt- 
ing to follow the vessel in Which the 
knight had embarked on his departure 
from the Holy Land. 

Sr. Gerasmuus. (See under LIon as an 
emblem.) 

Sr. JEROME, 
emblem.) 


Lion, in HERALDRY. 

(1) Couchant. Lying down; head 
erect, and tail beneath him. Emblem- 
atic of sovereignty. 

(2) Coward or Coué. With tail hang- 
ing between his legs. 

(3) Dormant. Asleep, with head 
resting on his fore-paws. 

(4) Passant. Walking, three feet on 
the ground ; in profile. Emblematic of 
resolution. 

(5) Passant Gardant. 
the ground; full face. The ‘ Lion of 
Eneland.’”’? Resolution and Prudence. 

(6) Passant Regardant. Three feet on 
the ground ; side face turned backwards. 

(7) Rampant. Erect on his hind legs ; 
in profile. Emblematic of magnanimity. 

(8) Rampant Gardant. Erect on his 
hind legs; full face. Emblematic of 
prudence. 

(9) Rampant Regardant. Erect on 
his hind legs; side face looking behind. 
Emblematic of circumspection. 

(10) Regardant. Looking behind him ; 
emblematic of cireumspection, 


(See under Lion as an 


Three feet on 


760 Lion 


——— 


(11) Saliant. In the act of springing 
forward on its prey. Emblematic of 
valour. 

(12) Sejant. Sitting, rising to prepare 
for action; face in profile, tail erect. 
Emblematic of oorninel 

(13) Sejant Afronté (as in the crest 
of Scotland), 

(14) Statant. 
on the ground. 

(15) Lion of St. Mark. A winged 
lion sejant, holding an open book with 
the inscription “Pax tiki Maree, Evan- 
gelista Meus.’? A sword-point rises 
above the book on the dexter side, and 
the whole is encircled by an aureola. 

(16) Lion of Venice. The same as the 
lion of St. Mark. 

Then there are black, red, and white 
lions, with many leonine monsters. 


A lion at the feet of knights and 
martyrs, in effigy, signifies that they died 
for their magnanimity. 

The lions in the arms of England. They 
are three lions passant gardant, 7.¢. 
walking and showing the full face. The 
first lion was that of Rollo, Duke of 
Normandy, and the second represented 
the country of Maine, which was added 
to Normandy. These were the two lions 
borne by William the Conqueror and his 
descendants. Henry II. added a third 
lion to represent the Duchy of Aquitaine, 
which came to him through his wife 
Eleanor. The French heralds call the 
lion passant a /eopard; accordingly 
Napoleon said to his soldiers, ‘‘ Let us 
drive these leopards (the English) into 
the sea.”’ 


“ In heraldry any lion not rampant 
is called a lion leopardeé. 

The lion in the arms of Scotland is de- 
rived from the arms of the ancient Earls 
of Northumberland and Huntingdon, 
from whom some of the Scotch monarchs 
were descended. The ¢resswre is referred 
to the reign of King Acha’‘icus, who 
made a league with Charlemagne, ‘‘ who 
did augment his arms with a double 
trace formed with Floure-de-lyces, 
signifying thereby that the lion hence- 
forth should be defended by the ayde of 
Frenchemen.’’ (Holinshed : Chronicles.) 

Sir Walter Scott says the lion rampant 
in the arms of Scotland was first assumed 
by William of Scotland, and has,been 
continued ever since. 


“William, King of Scotland, having chosen for 
his armorial bearing a Red Lion rampant, ac- 
quired the name of William the Lion; and this 
rampant lion still constitutes the arms of Scot- 
land; and the president of the heraldic court 
... 1s called Lord Lion King-at-Arms,”—Tales of 
a Grandfather, iy. 


Standing with four legs 


Lion 


61 Lion and 


A marble lion was set up in honour of 
Leonidas, who fell at Thermopyle, and 
a Belgian lion stands on the field of 
Waterloo. 

"| Lions in classie muthology. Cys’ ELE 
(3 syl.) is represented as riding in a 
chariot drawn by two tame lions. 

Pracriti, the goddess of nature 
among the Hindus, is represented in a 
similar manner. 

Hiprom'ENES and AraLantTa (fond 
lovers) were metamorphosed into lions 
by Cybele. 

HERCULES is said to have worn over 
his shoulders the hide of the Nem’ean 
lion, which he slew with his club. TrEr- 
ROUR is also represented as arrayed in 
a hon’s hide. 

The Nem'ean lion, slain by Hercules. 
The first of his twelve labours. As it 
could not be wounded by any weapon, 
Hercules squeezed it to death. 


Lion (a public-house sign). 
Black lion comes from the Flemings. 
“ An noir lyon la fleur-de-lis 
Prist la terre de ga le Lys.” 
Godefroy de Paris. 

Blue, the badge of the Earl of Mor- 
timer, also of Denmark. 

“ Blue seems frequently to represent 
silver; thus we have the Blue Boar of 
Richard IIT., the Blue Lion of the Earl 
of Mortimer, the Blue Swan of Henry 
IV., the Blue Dragon, etc. 

Crowned, the badge of Henry VIII. 

Golden, the badge of Henry I., and 
also of Perey, Duke of Northumberland. 

Passant gardant (walking and showing 
a full face), the device of England. 

Rampant, the device of Scotland. 

Rampant, with the tail between its 
legs and turned over its back, the badge 
of Edward IV. as Earl of March. 

Ted, of Scotland; also the badge of 
John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, who 
assumed this badge as a token of his 
claim to the throne of Castile. 

Sleeping, the device of Richard 1, 

Statant gardant (i.e. standing and 
showing a full face), the device of the 
Duke of Norfolk. 

White, the device of the Dukes of 
Norfolk; also of the Earl of Surrey, 
Earl of Mortimer, and the Fitz-Ham- 
monds. 

“ For who. in fleld or foray slack, 
Sie the Tancke lion eer fall back ? [Duke of 
Sir Walter Scott : Lay of the Last Minstrel. 

The winged lion. The republic of 
Venice. Its heraldic device. 

White and Red Lions. Prester John, 
in a letter to Manuel Comnenus, of 


Constantinople, 1165, says his land is 
“the home of white and red lions.”’ 


Lion-hunter (4). One who hunts 
up a celebrity to adorn or give prestige 
toa party. Mrs. Leo Hunter, in Pick- 
wick, is a good satire on the name and 
character of a lion-hunter. 


Lion-killer (Ze). Jules Gerard 
(1817-1864). 

Lion Sermon (7c). Preached in 
St. Katharine Cree church, Leadenhall- 
street, London, in October, to com- 
memorate ‘the wonderful escape’’ of 
Sir John Gayer, about 250 years ago, 
from a lion which he met with on being 
shipwrecked on the coast of Africa. Sir 
John was Lord Mayor in 1647. 

Sir John Gayer bequeathed £200 for the relief 
of the poor on condition that a commemorative 
sermon was preached annually at St. Katharine 
Cree. Itis said that Sir John was on his knees 
in prayer when the lion came up, smelt about 
him, prowled round and round him, and then 
stalked off. 

Lion-sick. Sick of love, like the lion 
in the fable. (See Shakespeare : Troilus 
and Cressida, ii. 3.) 


Lion Tamer (7/c). Ellen Bright, 
who exhibited at Wombwell’s menagerie, 
was so called. She was killed by a tizer 
in 1880, at the age of seventeen. 


Lion and Unicorn. The animosity 
which existed between these beasts, re- 
ferred to by Spenser in his Fucrie Queene, 
is allegorical of the animosity which 
once existed between England and 
Scotland. 

“ Like as a lyon, whose imperiall powre 


A prowd rebellious unicorn defyes.” 
Book ii. canto 5. 


Lion and Unicorn. Ever since 1603 
the royal arms have been supported as 
now by the English lion and Scottish 
unicorn: but prior to the accession of 
James I, the sinister supporter was a 
family badge. Edward III., with whom 
supporters began, had a lion and eagle ; 
Henry IV., an antelope and swan; 
Henry V., a lion and antelope ; Edward 
IV., a lion and bull; Richard III., a 
lion and boar; Henry VII., a lion and 
dragon; Elizabeth, Mary, and Henry 
VIII., a lion and greyhound. The lion 
is dexter—i.c. to the right hand of the 
wearer or person behind the shield. 


Lion and the True Prince (7c). 
The lion will not touch the true prince 
(1 Henry IV., ti. 4). This is a religious 
superstition ; the ‘‘ true prince,” strictly 
speaking, being the Messiah, who is 
called ‘‘the Lion of the tribe of Judah.”’ 
Loosely it is applied to any prince of 


Lion of God 


blood royal, supposed at one time to be 
hedged around with a sort of divinity. 


“ Fetch the Numidian lion I brought over ; 
If she be sprung from royal blood, the lion 
Will do her reverence, else he'll tear her.” 

Beaumont and Fletcher: The Mad Lover. 


Lion of God. Ali was so called, be- 
cause of his zeal and his great courage. 
(602, 655-661.) 

Lion of St. Mark. 
heraldry.) 

Lion of the Reformation (77). 
Spenser says that while Una was seeking 
St. George, she sat to rest herself, when 
a lion rushed suddenly out of a thicket, 
with gaping mouth and lashing tail ; but 
as he drew near he was awe-struck, and, 
laying aside his fury, kissed her feet and 
licked her hands; for, as the poet adds, 
“beauty can master strength, and truth 
subdue vengeance.’”? (The lion is the 
emblem of England, which waits upon 
Truth. When true faith was deserted by 
all the world, England the lion came to 
its rescue.) The lion then followed Una 
as a dog, but when Una met Hypocrisy, 
Sansloy came upon them and killed the 
lion. That is, during the reigns of 
Henry VIII. and Edward VI., England 
the lion followed the footsteps of Truth, 
but in the reign of Mary, Hypocrisy 
came and False-faith killed the lion, 
i.e. separated England from Truth by 
fire and sword. 


Lion of the Zodiac. One of the 
signs of the Zodiac (28th of July to the 
23rd of August). 

Lion’s Claws. Commonly used as 
ornaments to the legs of furniture, as 
tables, chairs, etc.; emblematical of 
strength and stability. The Greeks and 
Romans employed, for the same pur- 
pose, the hoofs of oxen, 


“Tes soutiens des tables et des trépieds [in 
Greece and Rome] se terminaient souvent en 
forme de piedes de hoeuf, pour exprimer la force 
et la stabilite.’"—Noel; Dictionnaire de la Fable, 
VOl. i. p. 237, col. 2. 


(See under Lion, 


Lion’s Head. In fountains the water 
generally is made to issue from the 
mouth of alion. This is a very ancient 
custom. The Egyptians thus symbolised 
the inundation of the Nile, which hap- 
pens when the sun is in Leo. The 
Greeks and Romans adopted the same 
device for their fountains. 

Lion’s Mouth. 170 place one’s head 
in the lion’s mouth. 'To expose oneself 
needlessly and foolhardily to danger. 


Lion’s Provider. <A jackal; a foil 
to another man’s wit, a hwmble friend 
who plays into your hand to show you 
to best advanfage. The jackal feeds on 


762 Lips 


the lion’s leavings, and is supposed to 
serve the lion in much the same way asa 
dog serves a sportsman. The dog lifts 
up its foot to indicate that game is at 
hand, and the jackals yell to advertise 
the lion that they have roused up his 
prey. (See JACKAL.) 

«the poor jackals are less foul, 

As being the brave lion’s keen providers. 

Than human insects catering for spiders.” 

Byron: Don Juan, ix. 27. 

Lion’s Share. The larger part: all 
or nearly all. In #sop’s Fables, 
several beasts joined the lion in a hunt ; 
but, when the spoil was divided, the lion 
claimed one quarter in right of his pre- 
rogative, one for his superior courage, 
one for his dam and cubs, ‘“‘and as for 
the fourth, let who will dispute it with 
me.”’ Awed by his frown, the other 
beasts yielded and silently withdrew. 
(See MonTGOMERY.) 


Lions (Zhe). The lions of a place 
are sights worth seeing, or the celebrities: 
so called from the ancient custom of 
showing strangers, as chief of London 
sights, the lions at the Tower. ‘The 
Tower menagerie was abolished in 1834. 


Lionise a Person (70) is either to 
show him the lions, or chief objects of 
attraction ; or to make a lion of him. by 


féling him and making a fuss about him. 


To be lionised is to be so treated. 


Liosalfar. The light Alfs who dwell 
in the city Alf-heim. They are whiter 
than the sun. (See Docxk-Arran.) 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Lip. (Anglo-Saxon, /ippe, the lip.) 


To curl the lip. To express contempt 
or disgust with the mouth. 

To hang the lip. To drop the under 
lip in sullenness or contempt. Thus 
Helen explains why her brother Troilus 
is not abroad by saying, ‘‘ He hangs 
the lip at something.’’ (Act iii. 1.) 


“A foolish hanging of thy nether lip.” —Shake- 
speare: 1 Henry IV., 11. 4. 


*t To shoot out the lip. To show scorn. 
‘All they that see me laugh me to scorn, They 
shoot out the lip; they shake the head... "- 
Psalm xxii. 7. 
Lip Homage. Homage rendered by 
the lips only, that is, either by a kiss 
like that of Judas, or by words. 


Lip Service. Verbal devotion. 
Honouring with the lips while the heart 
takes no part nor lot in the matter. (See 
Matt. xv. 8, Isa. xxix. 13.) 


Lips. Zhe calves of our lips (Hosea 
xiv. 2). The sacrifice of praise and 
thanksgiving. 


Tiiquor up 


763 Little-Endians 


The fruit of the lips. Thanksgivings. 


“Let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God con- 
tinually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks 
to His name.’—Heb. xiil. 15. 


Liquor up. Take another dram. 


Lir (ing). Father of Fionmala. 
On the death of Fingula, the mother of 
his daughter, he married the wicked 
Aoife, who, through spite, transformed 
the children of Lir into swans, doomed 
to float on the water till they heard the 
first mass-bell ring. Thomas Moore 
has versified this legend. 

* Silent, O Moyle, be the roar of thy water, 
Break not, ye breezes, your chain of repose, 

While murmuring mournfully, Lir’s lovely 

daughter 

Tells to the night-stars the tale of her woes.” 

Trish Melodies, No. ii. 9. 

Liris. A proud but lovely daughter 
of the race of man, beloved by Rubi, 
first of the angel host. Her passion was 
the love of knowledge, and she was cap- 
tivated by all her lover told her of heaven 
and the works of God. At last she re- 
quested Rubi to appear before her in all 
his glory, and as she fell into his em- 
brace was burnt to ashes by the rays 
which issued from him. (Moore: Loves 
of the Angels, story ii.) 

Lisbo’a or Lis‘boa. Lisbon (9.v.) 

“What beauties doth Lisho’a first unfold.” 

Byron: Childe Harold, i. 16. 
* And thou, famed Lis’boa, whose embattled wall 
tose by the hand that wrought proud Tlion’s 
fall.” Mickle: Lusiad. 

Lisbon. <A corruption of ’ Ulyssippo 
(Ulysses’ polis or city). Said by some 
to have been founded by Lusus, who 
visited Portugal with Ulysses, whence 
“ Lusitania’? (q.v.) ; and by others to 
have been founded by Ulysses himself 
This is Camoens’ version. (See above.) 

Lismaha’go (Captain), in Smollett’s 
Humphry Clinker, Very conceited, fond 
of disputation, jealous of honour, and 
brim-full of national pride. This poor 
but proud Scotch officer marries Miss 
Tabitha Bramble. The romance of 
Captain Lismaha’go among the Indians 
is worthy of Cervantes. 


Lisuar'te of Greece. One of the 
knights whose adventures and exploits 
are recounted in the latter part of the 
Spanish version of Amadis of Gaul. This 
part was added by Juan Diaz. 


Lit de Justice. Properly the seat 
occupied by the French king when he 
attended the deliberations of his parle- 
ment. The session itself. Any arbitrary 
edict. As the members of Parlement 
derived their power from the king, when 
the king himself was present their power 


returned to the fountain-head, and the 
king was arbitrary. What the king 
then proposed could not be contro- 
verted, and, of course, had the force of 
law. ‘The last it de justice was held 
by Louis XVI, in 1787. 


Little. Thomas Moore published a 
volume of amatory poems in 1808, under 
the name of Thomas Little. 

“When first I came my proper name was Little— 
now I’m Moore.” Hood : The Wee Man, 

Little. Little by little. Gradually ; 
a little at a time. 

Many a little makes a mickle. The 
real Scotch proverb is: ‘‘A wheen 0’ 
mickles mak’s a muckle,’’ where mickle 
means /i¢t/e, and muckle much ; but the 
Anglo-Saxon miccl or mycel means 
“*much,’’ so that, if the Scotch proverb 
is accepted, we must give a forced mean- 
ing to the word ‘‘ mickle.’’ 


Little Britain or Prittany. 
as Armor’ica. Also called Benwic. 


Little Corporal (716). Napoleon 
Bonaparte. So called after the battle of 
Lodi, in 1796, from his low stature, 
youthful age, and amazing courage. He 
was barely 6 ft. 2 in. in height. 


Little Dauphin (7c). The eldest 
son of the Great Dauphin—-i.e. the Duc 
de Bourgogne, son of Louis, and grand- 
son of Louis XIV, 


Little Ease. The name of a prison 
cell too small to allow the prisoner to 
stand upright, or to lie down, or to 
assume any other position of ease. I 
have seen such a cell at St. Cyr; and 
according to Curiosity, or, The General 
Library, p. 69 (1788), cells of this kind 
were used ‘‘at Guildhall for unruly 
apprentices.” 


Little-Endians. The two great 
empires of Lilliput and Blefuscu waged 
a destructive war against each other, 
exhausted their treasures, and decimated 
their subjects on their different views 
of interpreting this vital direction con- 
tained in the 464th chapter of the Blun’- 
decral (Joran): ‘* All true believers break 
their eggs at the convenient end.’’ The 
godfather of Calin Deffar Plune, the 
reigning emperor of Lilliput, happened 
to cut his finger while breaking his egg 
at the big end, and very royally pub- 
lished a decree commanding all his liege 
and faithful subjects, on pains and penal- 
ties of great severity, to break their eggs 
in future at the small end. The orthodox 
Blefuscu’dians deemed it their duty to re- 
sent this innovation, and declared a war 


Same 


Little Englanders 


of extermination against the heretical 
Lilliputians. Many hundreds of large 
treatises were published on both sides, 
but those of a contrary opinion were 
put in the Index expurgato'rius of the 
opposite empire. (Gudlliver’s Travels 
ἘΣ to Lilliput, iv.) 

“The quarrel hetween the Little-endians and 
the Big-endians broke out on Thursday, like the 
after-fire of a more serious contlagration.”—The 
Times. 

Little Englanders. Those who up- 
hold the doctrine that English people 
should concern themselves with England 
only: they are opposed to colonisation 
and extension of the Empire. 


Little-Go. The examination held in 
the Cambridge University in the second 
year of residence. Called also ‘‘the 
previous examination,’’ because it pre- 
cedes by a year the examination for a 


degree. In Oxford the corresponding 
examination is called The Smalls. (See 
Mops.) 


Little Jack Horner. (Sec JACK.) 


Little John. A big stalwart fellow, 
named John Little (or John Nailor), who 
encountered Robin Hood, and gave him 
a sound thrashing, after which he was 
rechristened, and Robin stood god- 
father. Little John is introduced by 
Sir Walter Scott in Zhe Talisman. 


“ «This infant was called John Little” quoth he ; 
‘Which name shall be changed anon. 
The words we'll transpose, so wherever he goes, 
His name shall |e called Little John.” 
Ritson: Robin Hood, xxi. 


Little John was executed on Arbor 
Hill, Dublin. 

It will be remembered that Maria in 
Twelfth Night, represented by Shake- 
speare as a /ittle woman, is by a similar 
pleasantry called by Viola, ‘‘ Olivia’s 
giant;’’ and Sir Toby says to her, 
“Good night, Penthesile’a ”’—i.e. Ama- 
zon. 

Little Masters. A name applied 
to certain designers, who worked for en- 
gravers, etec., in the sixteenth and seven- 
teenth centuries. Called little because 
their designs were on a small scale, fit 
for copper or wood, The most famous 
are Jost Amman, for the minuteness of 
his work; Hans Burgmair, who made 
drawings in wood illustrative of the 
triumph of the Emperor Maximilian ; 
Hans Sebald Beham; Albert Altdorfer, 
and Henrich Aldegraver. Albert Diirer 
and Lucas van Leyden made the art 
renowned and popular. 

Little Nell. A child of beautiful 
purity of character, living in the midst 
of selfishness, worldliness, and crime. 
(Dickens ; Old Curiosity Shop.) 


764 


Livered 


Little Ones (716). The small chil- 
dren, and young children generally. 


Little Paris. Brussels, the capital 
of Belgium, and Milan, in Italy, are so 
called, from their gaiety and resemblance 
in miniature to the French capital. 


Little Pedlington. The village of 
quackery and cant, humbug, and ego- 


tism, wherever that locality is. A satire 
by John Poole. 


Little Red Ridinghood. This 
nursery tale is, with slight alterations, 
common to Sweden, Germany, and 
France. It comes to us from the 
French, called Le Petit Chaperon Rouge, 
in Charles Perrault’s Contes des Temps. 


Little Gentieman in Velvet (7c). 
The mole. “Τὸ the little gentleman 
in velvet’ was a favourite Jacobite toast 
in the reign of Queen Anne. The refer- 
ence was to the mole that raised the 
mole-hill against which the horse of 
William III. stumbled at Hampton 
Court. By this accident the king broke 
his collar-bone, a severe illness ensued, 
and he died early in 1702. 


Little Packs become a Little 
Pedlar. ‘ Little boats must keep near 
shore, larger ones may venture more.”’ 

“ Mainwaring is a clever justice— 
In him, my Jord, our only trust is— 
Burdett’s a ratten meddler ; 
Volks shud turn round and see their hacks, 
And meend [mind] old proverbs: * Little packs 
Become a little pedlar.” 
Peter Pindar : Middlesex Election, letter i. 

Liturgy originally meant pudlic worl, 
such as arranging the dancing and sing- 
ing on public festivals, the torch-races, 
the equipping and manning of ships, etc. 
In the Church of England it means the 
religious forms prescribed in the Book of 
Common Prayer. (Greek, /itowrgid.) 


Live. He lived like a knave, and died 
like a fool. Said by Bishop Warburton 
of Henry Rich, first Earl of Holland, 
the turncoat. He went to the scaf- 
fold dressed in white satin, trimmed 
with silver, 


Liver-vein (716). <A love rhapsody. 
The liver was anciently supposed to be 
the seat of love. When Longaville reads 
the verses, Biron says, in an aside, 
‘““This is the liver-vein, which makes 
flesh a deity.” (Shakespeare: Love's 
Labow’s Lost, iv. 3.) 


Livered. As, white-livered, lily- 
livered. Cowardly. In the auspices 
taken by the Greeks and Romans be- 
fore battle, if the liver of the animals 


Liverpool 


765 Loathly Lady 


sacrificed was healthy and blood-red, 
the omen was favourable ; but if pale, 
it augured defeat. 
“Thou lily-livered boy.” 
Shakespeare: Macbeth vy. 3. 

Liverpool. Said to be tke ‘liver- 
pool.’? The liver isa mythic bird, some- 
what like the heron. The arms of the 
city contain tivo livers. 


Liverpudlian. A native of Liver- 
pool. 
Livery. What is delivered. The 


clothes of a man-seryant delivered to 
him by his master. The stables to 
which your horse is delivered for keep. 
During the Merovingian and Carlovin- 
gian dynasties, splendid dresses were 
given to all the members of the royal 
household; barons and knights gave 
uniforms to their retainers, and even a 
duke’s son, serving as a page, was 
clothed in the livery of the prince he 
served, (French, livrer.) 

“What livery is we know well enough; it is 
the allowance of horse-meate to kKeepe horses at 
livery ; the which word, I guess, is derived of 
delivering forth their nightly food.”—Spenser on 
Treland. 

Livery. The colours of a livery should 
be those of the field and principal charge 
of the armorial shield; hence the 
Queen’s livery is gules (scarlet) or scarlet 
trimmed with gold. The Ivish regi- 
ments preserve the charge of their own 
nation. Thus the Royal Irish Dragoon 
Guards have scarlet uniform with blue 
facings, and the Royal Irish Lancers have 
blue uniform with scarlet facings. 


Livery-men. The freemen of the 
ninety-one guilds of London are so called, 
because they are entitled to wear the 
livery of their respective companies. 


Livy of France (Zhe). Juan de 
Mariana (1537-1624). 
Livy of Portugal (7162). Joao de 


Barros, the best of the Portuguese his- 
torians. (1496-1570.) 


Liza. An innkeeper’s daughter in 
love with Elvi’no, a rich farmer: but 
Elvi‘no loves Ami’na. Suspicious cir- 
cumstances make the farmer renounce 
the hand of Amina and promise marriage 
to her rival; but Liza is shown to be 
the paramour of another, and Amina, 
being proved innocent, is married to the 
-man who loves her. (Bellini: La Son- 
nambula.) Or Lisa. (See ELvINo.) 


Lizard (Zhe). Supposed, at one 
time, to be venomous, and hence a 
“lizard’s lez’? was an ingredient of the 
witch’s cauldron in Macbeth, 


Lizard Islands. Fabulous islands 
where damsels outcast from the rest of 
the world are received, (Zorquemada: 
Garden of Flowers.) 

Lizard Point (Cornwall). <A cor- 
ruption of ‘‘Lazars’ Point,’ 1.6, the 
place of retirement for lazars or lepers. 

Lloyd’s. An association of under- 
writers, for marine insurances. So called 
because the society removed in 1716 
from Cornhill to a coffee-house in Lom- 
bard Street kept by a man named Lloyd. 


Lloyd’s Books. ‘Two enormous 
ledger-hke volumes, raised on desks 
at the entrance (right and left) of 
Lloyd’s Rooms. These books give the 
principal arrivals, and all losses by 
wrecks, fire, or other accidents at sea. 
The entries are written in a fine, bold 
Roman hand, legible to all readers. 


Lloyd’s List. A London periodical, 
in which the shipping news received at 
Lloyd’s Rooms is regularly published. 

Lloyd’s Register. A register of 
ships, British and foreign, published 
yearly. 

Lloyd’s Rooms. The rooms where 
Lloyd’s Books are kept, and the business 
of the house is carried on, ‘These rooms 
were, in 1774, removed from Lombard 
Street to the Royal Exchange, and are 
under the management of a committee. 


Loaf. Never turn a loaf in the pre- 
sence of a Menteith. Sir John Stewart 
de Menteith was the person who be- 
trayed Sir William Wallace to King 
Edward. His signal was, when he 
turned a loaf set on the table, the guests 
were to rush upon the patriot, and 
secure him. (Sir Valter Scott: Tales of 
a Grandfather, vii.) 

Loaf held in the Hand (4) is the 
attribute of St. Philip the Apostle. St. 
Osyth, St. Joanna, Nicholas, St. God- 
frey, and of many other saints noted for 
their charity to the poor. 


Loafers. Tramps, thieves, and the 
ne’er-do-well. Idle fellows who get 
their living by expedients ; chevaliers 
@industrie. (German, /dufer, a runner ; 
Dutch, looper.) : 

“Until the differentiation of the labourer from 
the loafer takes place, the unemployed question 
ean never be properly dealt with.”’—Ninetecnth 
Century, December, 1893, p. 805. 

Loathly Lady. A lady so hideous 
that no one would marry her except Sir 
Gaw’ain; and immediately after the 
marriage her ugliness—-the effect of en- 
chantment—disappeared, and she became 
a model of beauty. Love beautifies, 


Loaves and Fishes 


766 


Lockman 


Loaves and Fishes. //ith an eye to 
the loaves and fishes ; for the sake of... 
With a view to the material benefits to 
be derived. The crowd followed Jesus 
Christ, not for the spiritual doctrines 
which He taught, but for the loaves and 
fishes which He distributed amongst 
them. 


“ Jesus answered them and sa‘d, Verily, verily, 
T sa, unto you, ye seek Me, not because ye saw the 
miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves,au 1} 
were filled.”—John vi, 26, 

Lob. A till. Hence /ob-snzak, one who 
robs the till; and dob-snzaking, robbing 
tills. (See next article.) 

Lob’s Pound. A prison, the stocks, 
or any other place of confinement. 
(Welsh, “ἰοῦ, a dolt). The Irish call 
it Pook’s or Pouk’s fold, and Puck 
is called by Shakespeare ‘‘the lob of 
spizits,’’ and by Milton, ‘‘the lubber 
fiend.’’ Our word lobby is where people 
are confined till admission is granted 
them into the audience chamber; it is 
also applied to that enclosed space near 
farmyards where cattle are confined. 


Lobby. Zhe Billwill cross the lobbies. 
Be sent from the House of Commons to 
the House of Lords. 


Loblolly, among seamen, is spoon- 
victuals, or pap for lobs or dolts. (See 
LOLLY Pops. ) 


Loblolly Boy (4.) Asurgeon’s mate 
in the navy. Here lob is the Welsh ἠ οὗ, 
a dolt, and loblolly boy is a dolt not yet 
out of his spoon-meat or baby-pap. 

“QLoblolly-boy is a person on board a man-of- 
war who attends the surgeon and his mates, but 
knows as much about the business of a seaman as 
the author of this poem.’—The Patent (1776). 

Lobster Sauce. Died for want of 
lobster sauce. Died of mortification at 
some trifling disappointment. Died from 
pique, or wounded vanity. At the grand 
feast given by the great Condé to Louis 
XIV., at Chantilly, Vatel was told that 
the lobsters for the turbot sauce had not 
arrived, whereupon this chef of the 
kitchen retired to his private room, and, 
leaning on his sword, ran it through his 
body, unable to survive such a dire dis- 
grace as serving up turbot without 
lobster sauce. 


Lobsters and Jurpaulings. Soldiers 
and sailors. Soldiers are now popularly 
called lobsters, because they are turned 
red when enlisted into the service. But 
the term was originally applied to a 
troop of horse soldiers in the Great Re- 
bellion, clad in armour which covered 
them as a shell. 


“Sir William Waller received from London (in 
1643) a fresh regiment of 500 horse, under the 


command of Sir Arthur Haslerig, which were so 
prodigiously armed that they were called by the 
king’s party ‘the regiment of lobsters,’ hecause 
of their bright iron shells with which they were 
covered, being perfect cuirassiers, and were the 
first seen so armed on either side.”—Clurendon : 
History of the Rebellion, iii. 91. 

Lochiel (2 syl.) of Thomas Campbell 
is Sir Evan Cameron, lord of Lochiel, 
surnamed The Black, and The Ulysses of 
the Highlands. is grandson Donald 
was called The Gentle Lochicl. Lochiel 
is the title of the head of the clan 
Cameron, 


“ And Cameron, in the shock of steel, 
Die like the offspring of Lochiel.” 
Sir W. Scott: The Field of Waterloo. 

Lochinvar, being in love with a lady 
at Netherby Hall, persuaded her to 
dance one last dance. She was con- 
demned to marry a ‘‘laggard in love and 
a dastard in war,”’ but her young cheva- 
lier swung her into his saddle and made 
off with her, before the ‘‘ bridegroom ’”’ 
and his servants could recover from their 
astonishment. (Sir Walter Scott : Mar- 
Mion.) 


Lock, Stock, and Barrel. ‘The 
whole of anything. The lock, stock, 
and barrel of a gun is the complete in- 
strument. 

“The property of the Church of England, lock, 
stock, and barrel, is claimed by the Liberation- 
ists.”—Newspaper paragraph, 1885. 

Lock the Stable Door. Loci: the 
stable door when the stecd is stolen. To 
take ‘‘ precautions’? when the mischief 
is done. 


Lockhart. When the good Lord 
James, on his way to the Holy Land 
with the heart of King Robert Bruce, 
was slain in Spain fighting against the 
Moors, Sir Simon Locard, of Lee, was 
commissioned to carry back to Scotland 
the heart, which was interred in Melrose 
Abbey. In consequence thereof he 
changed his name to Lock-heart, and 
adopted the device of a heart within a 


Jetterlock, with this motto: ‘* Corda ser- 


rata pando’? (Locked hearts Iopen). Of 
course, this is romance. Lockhart is 
Teutonic, ‘‘ Strong Beguiler.”’ 

“For this reason men changed Sir S'mon’s name 
from Lockhard to Lockheart, and all who are de- 
scended from Sir Simon are called Lockhart to this 
day.” —Sir Walter Scott : Tales of a Grandfather, xi, 

Lockit. The jailer in Gay’s Beggar's 
Opera. 

Lockitt’s. A fashionable coffee-house 
in the reign of Charles 11. 


Lockman, Anexecutioner; so called 
because one of his dues was a loch: (or 
ladleful) of meal from every caskful 


Locksley 


exposed for sale in the market. In the 
Isle of Man the under-sheriff is so called. 


Locksley. So Robin Hood is some- 
times called, from the village in which he 
was born. (See Jvanhoe, ch. xiii.) 


Locksley Hall. Tennyson has a 

oem so called. The lord of Locksley 
Hall fell in love with his cousin Amy, 
but Amy married a rich clown. The 
lord of Locksley Hall, indignant at this, 
declares he will marry a savage; but, 
on reflection, adds: ‘‘ Better fifty years 
of Europe than a cycle of Cathay.” 


Locksmith’s Daughter. A key. 


Loco Parentis (latin). One acting 
in the place of a parent, as a guardian or 
schoolmaster. 

Loe?fo'cos. Lucifer-matches; self- 
lighting cigars were so called in North 
America in 1834. (Latin, /oco-foci, in 
lieu of fire.) 


“Tn 1835 during an excited meeting of the party 
in Tammany Hall, New York, when the candles 
had been blown out to increase the confusion, 
they were lighted with matches then called 
“ locofocos.” — Gilman: The American People, 


chap. xxi. 

Locofo'cos. Ultra-Radicals, so called 
in America because, at a grand meeting 
in Tammany Hall, New York, in 1835, 
the chairman left his seat, and the lights 
were suddenly extinguished, with the 
hope of breaking up the turbulent as- 
sembly ; but those who were in favour of 
extreme measures instantly drew from 
their pockets their locofocos, and re- 
lighted the gas, The meeting was con- 
tinued, and the Radicals had their way. 
(See Gilman: The American People, 
chap. xxi.) 

Locomotive, or Locomotive En- 
gine. A steam-engine employed to move 
carriages from place to place. (Latin, 
locus moveo, to move one’s place.) 


Locomotive Power. Power applied 
to the transport of goods, in contradis- 
tinction to stationary power. 


Locrin or Locrine (2syl.). Father 
of Sabri‘na, and eldest son of the myth- 
ical Brutus, King of ancient Britain. 
On the death of his father he became 
king of Loe’gria(g.v.). (Geoffrey: Brit. 
Hist., ii. 5.) 


“Virgin daughter of Locrine, 
Sprung from old Anchises’ line,” 
Milton: Comus, 942-3. 


Locum Te’nens (Jatin). One hold- 
ing the place of another. A substitute, 
a deputy; one acting temporarily for 
another ; a lieutenant. 

Locus Delicti. The place where a 
crime was committed. 


767 


Tiodona 


=— 


Locus in quo (Zatin). The place in 
question, the spot mentioned. 


Locus Peenitentiz. (Latin.) Place 
for repentance —that is, the licence of 
drawing back from a bargain, which can 
be done before any act has been com- 
mitted to confirm it. In the interview 
between Esau and his father Isaac, St. 
Paul says that the former ‘found no 
place for repentance, though he sought 
it carefully with tears ’’ (Heb. xii. 17)— 
i.e. no means whereby Isaac could break 
his bargain with Jacob. 

Locus penitentie, Time to withdraw 
from a bargain (in Scotch law). 


Locus Sigilli or L. 5. 
where the seal is to be set. 


Locus Standi (latin). Recognised 
position, acknowledged right or claim. 
We say such-and-such a one has no /ocus 
standi in society. 


Locust Bird. A native of Khoras- 
san (Persia), so fond of the water of 
the Bird Fountain, between Shiraz and 
Ispahan, that it will follow wherever it 
is carried. 


Locusts. (For food.) 


“The bushmen [says Captain Stockenston] con- 
sider locusts a great luxury, consuming greit 
quantities fresh,and drying abundance for future 
emergencies.” “They are eaten [says Thomas 
Bayne] in like manner by the Arabs of the Desert, 
and by other nomadic tribes in the East.” 

“Even the wasting locust-swarm, 
Which mighty nations dread, 
To me no terror brings, nor harm, 
I make of them my bread.” 
African Sketches (1820). 


The place 


Locus'ta. This woman has become a 
byword for one who murders those she 
professes to nurse, or those whom it is 
her duty to take care of. She lived in 
the early part of the Roman empire, 
poisoned Claudius and Britan’nicus, and 
attempted to destroy Nero; but, being 
found out, she was put to death. 

Lode. The vein that leads or guides 
to ore. <A dead lode is one exhausted. 

Lode. A ditch that guides or leads 
water into a river or sewer. 


Lodestar. The leading-star by which 
mariners are guided ; the pole-star. 

“Your eyes are lodestars.”—Shakespeare: Mid- 
summer Night's Dream,i.1. 

Lodestone or Loadstone. T 
magnet or stone that guides. 


Lodo’na. The Lodden, an affluent of 
the Thames in Windsor Forest. Pope, 
in Windsor Forest, says it was a nymph, 
fond of the chase, like Diana. It chanced 
one day that Pan saw her, and tried to 
catch her; but Lodona fled from him, 


1 


ne 


Loegria 


imploring Cyn’thia to save her from her 
persecutor. No sooner had she spoken 
than she became ‘‘a silver stream which 
ever keeps its virgin coolness.”’ 


Loegria or Lo’gres. England is so 
called by Geoffrey of Monmouth, from 
Logrine, eldest son of the mythical King 
Brute. 

Ὁ His [Brute’s] three sons divide the land hy con- 
sent; Locrine had the middle part, Loégra.. .” 
—Milton: History of England, Wk. i. 

“Thus Cambria to her right, what would herself 

Ane eatier than to lose Loegria, looks for 

more.” Drayton: Polyolbion, iv. 
“Tlest ecrit qu'il est une heure 
Ou tout le royaume de Logres, 
Qui jadis fut la terre es ogres, 
Sera detruit par cette lance.” 
Chretien de Troyes. 

Log. An instrument for measuring 
the velocity of a ship. It is a flat piece 
of wood, some six inches in radius, and 
in the shape of a quadrant. <A piece 
of lead is nailed to the rim to make the 
log float perpendicularly. To this log 
a line is fastened, called the log-line 
(q.v.). Other forms are also used. 

A king Log. A voi fainéant. In allu- 
sion to the fable of the frogs asking for 
aking. Jupiter first threw them down a 
log of wood, but they grumbled at so 
spiritless a king. He then sent them a 
stork, which devoured them eagerly. 


Log-board. A couple of boards shut- 
ting like a book, in which the ‘ logs” 
are entered. It may be termed the 
waste-book, and the /og-book the journal, 


Log-book. The journal in which the 
‘loos’? are entered by the chief mate. 
Besides the logs, this book contains all 
general transactions pertaining to the 
ship and its erew, such as the strength 
and course of the winds, the conduct 
and misconduct of the men, and, in 
short, everything worthy of note. 


Log-line. Tho line fastened to the 
log (q.v.), and wound round a reel in 
the ship’s gallery. The whole line (ex- 
cept some five fathoms next the log, 
called stray line) is divided into equal 
lengths called knots, each of which is 
marked with a piece of coloured tape or 
bunting. Suppose the captain wishes to 
know the rate of his ship; one of the 
sailors throws the log into the sea, and 
the reel begins to unwind. The length 
of line run off in half a minute shows the 
rate of the ship’s motion per hour. 


Log-roller (4). One engaged in 
log-rol'ing, that is (metaphorically) in 
furthering another’s schemes or fads; 
persons who laud a friend to promote 


768 Logistilla 


the sale of his books, ete. The allusion 
is to neighbours who assist a new settler 
to roll away the logs of his ‘‘ clearing.’’ 

“The members [of Congress]... . make a com- 
pact by which each aids the other, This is log- 
rolling.”"—Bryce : Commonwealth, vol. ii. part iii. 
chap. lxvil. page 125 (1389). 

Log-rolling. The combination of 
different interests, on the principle of 
“*Claw me, 111 claw you.’”’ Applied to 
mutual admiration criticism. One frien l 
praises the literary work of another 
with the implied understanding of re- 
ceiving from him in return as much as 
he gives. The mutual admirers are 
called ‘‘log-rollers.”’ 

In the last decade of the nineteenth 
century, it was used politically to signify 
if A B willhelp C D to pass their measures 
through the House, then ( D will return 
the same favour to A B. 

Of course, the term is American. Tf you help 
me to make my clearance, I will help you to roll 
away the lors of yours. 

Log-rolling Criticism. The criti- 
cism of literary men who combine to 
praise each other’s works in press or 
otherwise. 


Logan or Rocking Stones, for which 
Cornwall is famous. 

Pliny tells us of a rock near Harpisa 
which might be moved with a finger. 

Ptolemy says the Gygonian rock might 
be stirred with a stalk of asphodel. 

Half a mile from St. David's i3 a 
Logan stone, mounted on divers other 
stones, which may be shaken with ons 
finger, 

At Golcar Hill (Yorkshire) is a rock- 
ing stone, which has lost its power from 
being hacked by workmen who wanted 
to find out the secret of its rocking 
mystery. 

In Pembrokeshire is a rocking stone, 
rendered immovable by the soldiers of 
Cromwell, who held it to be an en- 
couragement to superstition. 

The stone called Menamber in Sithney 
(Cornwall) was also rendered immovable 
by the soldiers. under the same notion. 

There are very many others. 


Loggerheads. Full to loggerheats ; 
to squabbling and fisticuffs. 


Logget. A sweetmeat, a toffy cut 
into small manchets ; a little log of toffy. 
Common enough in Norfolk. 


Logistilla (in Orlando Furioso). The 
good fairy, and sister of Alci’na the 
sorceress. She teaches Ruggie'ro to 
manage the hippogriff, and gives Astol- 
pho a magic book and horn, The im- 
personation of reason. 


Logres 


769 


London 


Logres. (Sce LoEGRIA.) 


Lo’gria. England, so called by the 
old romancers and fabulous historians. 


Logris, Locris. Same as Locrin 
or Locrine (g.v.). 

Loins. (Gird up the loins, brace your- 
self for vigorous action, or energetic 
endurance. The Jews wore loose gar- 
ments, which they girded about their 
loins when they travelled or worked. 


“ Gird up the loins of your mind.”—1 Peter i. 13, 


My little finger shall be thicker than 
my father’s loins (1 Kings xii. 10). My 
lightest tax shall be heavier than the 
most oppressive tax of my predecessor. 
The arrogant answer of Rehoboam to 
the deputation which waited on him to 
entreat an alleviation of ‘‘the yoke”’ 
laid on them by Solomon. The reply 
caused the revolt of all the tribes, ex- 
cept those of Judah and Benjamin. 


Loki. The god of strife and spirit of 
evil. He artfully contrived the death 
of Balder, when Odin had forbidden 
everything that springs ‘‘ from fire, air, 
earth, and water’’ to injure him, The 
mistletoe not being included was made 
into an arrow, given to the blind Hoder, 
and shot at random; but it struck the 
beautiful Balder and killed him. This 
evil being was subsequently chained to 
a rock with ten chains, and will so con- 
tinue till the twilight of the gods ap- 
pears, when he will break his bonds ; 
then will the heavens disappear, the 
earth be swallowed up by the sea, fire 
shall consume the elements, and even 
Odin, with all his kindred deities, shall 
perish. (See BALDER, KISSING.) 


Loki’s Three Children were Jor- 
mungand (a monstrous serpent), Fenrir 
(a wolf), and Hela (half corpse and half 
queen). His wife was Siguna. 

*? Loki is the personification of sin. 
Fenrir personifies the gnawings of a 
guilty conscience. Both Loki and Fenrir 
were chained by the Asir, but not with 
iron chains. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Lokman. A fabulous personage, the 
supposed author of a collection of Arabic 
fables. Like sop, he is said to have 
been a slave, noted for his ugliness. 


Lollards. The early German re- 
formers and the followers of Wickliffe 
were so called. Aningenious derivation 
is given by Bailey, who suggests the 
Latin word Joliwm (darnel), because these 
reformers were deemed ‘‘ tares in God’s 
wheat-field.”’ 


49 


Gregory XI., in one of his bulls 
against Wickliffe, urges the clergy to 
extirpate this Joliwm. 


“The name of Lollards was first given (in 1300) 
toa charitable society at Antwerp, who lulled the 
s ck by singing to them,’’—Dr. Blair: Chronology 
(under the date 1300), 


German Jo//en, to hum. 
Lollop. To lounge or idle about. 


Lollypops. Sweets made of treacle, 
butter, and flour; any sweets which are 
sucked. A ‘‘lolly’’ is a small lump. 


Lombard (4). A banker or money- 
lender, so called because the first bankers 
were from Lombardy, and set up in 
Lombard Street (London), in the Middle 
Ages. The business of lending money 
on pawns was carried on in England by 
Italian merchants or bankers as early at 
least as the reign of Richard I. By the 
12 Edward I., a messuage was confirmed 
to these traders where Lombard Street 
now stands ; but the trade was first re- 
cognised in law by James I. The name 
Lombard (according to Stow) is a con- 
traction of Longobards. Among the 
richest of these Longobard merchants 
was the celebrated Medici family, from 
whose armorial bearings the insignia of 
three golden balls has been derived. The 
Lombard bankers exercised a monopoly 
in pawnbroking till the reign of Queen 
Elizabeth. 


Lombard Fever. Laziness. Pawn- 
brokers are called Lombard brokers, be- 
cause they retain the three golden balls 
of the Lombard money-changers ; and 
lazy folk will pawn anything rather than 
settle down to steady work. 


Lombard Street to a China 
Orange. Longodds. Lombard Street, 
London, is the centre of great banking 
and mercantile transactions. To stake 
the Bank of England against a common 
orange is to stake what is of untold value 
against a mere trifle. 

“*Ttis Lombard Street toa China orange, quoth 
Uncle Jack.’—Bulwer Lytton: The Caxtons. 

Lombardic. The debased Roman 
style of architecture adopted in Lom- 
bardy after the fall of Rome. 


London, says Francis Crossley, is 
Luan-dun (Celtic), City of the Moon, and 
tradition says there was once a temple 
of Diana (the Moon) where St. Paul’s 
now stands. Greenwich he derives from 
Grian-wich (City of the Sun), also Celtic. 
It would fill a page to give a list of 
guesses made at the derivation of the 
word London. The one given above is 


London Bridge 


we 


‘ 


about the best for fable and mythology. 
(Seé AvuausTa, Basyton, and Lup’s 
Town.) 


London Bridge built on Wool- 
packs. In the reign of Henry II. the 
new stone bridge over the Thames was 
paid for by a tax on wool. 

++ There was a bridge over the Thames 
in the tenth century, There was a new 
one of wood in 1014. The stone bridge 
(1176-1209) was by Peter of Colechurch. 
New London Bridge, constructed of 
granite, was begun in 1824, and finished 
in seven years. It was designed by’Sir 
John Rennie, and cost £1,458,000. In 
1894 was opened a new bridge, called the 
Tower Bridge, to admit of easier traffic. 


London Stone. The central millia- 
rium (milestone) of Roman London, simi- 
lar to that in the Forum of Rome. The 
British high roads radiated from this 
stone, and it was from this point they 
were measured. Near London Stone 
lived Fitz Alwyne, who was the first 
mayor of London, 

* London Stone was removed for 
security into the wall of St. Swithin’s 
church, facing Cannon Street station, 
and secured from damage by an iron 
railing. 

There are two inscriptions, one in 
Latin and one in English. The latter 
runs thus :— 


“London stone. Commonly believed to he a 
Roman work, long placed about xxxv feet hence 
towards the south-west, and afterwards ouilt into 
the wall of this church, was, for more carefy1 pro- 
tection and transmission to future ages, better 
secured by the churchwardens in the year of OVR 
LORD MDCCCLXIX.” 


Long Chalk (4) or Long Chalks. 
He beat me by a long chalk or by long 
chalks. By a good deal; by many 
marks, The allusion is to the game of 
dominoes, where the notation is made by 
chalk on a table. 

Long Dozen (A) is 13. 
dred is 120, 

Long-headed. Clever, sharp-witted. 
Those who believe in the shape and 
bumps of the head think that a long head 
indicates shrewdness. 


Long Home. He has gone to his long 
home. Heis dead. The ‘long home”’ 
means the grave. The French equiva- 
lent is ‘‘ Aller dans une maison ou Von 
demeurera toujours.” 


(See LANE.) 


Long Meg of Westminster. A 
noted virago in the reign of Henry VIII. 


A long hun- 


Long Lane. 


Tiong Tail 


Her name has been given to several 
articles of unusual size. Thus, the large 
blue-black marble in the south cloister 
of Westminster Abbey, over the grave of 
Gervasius de Blois, is called ‘* Long Meg 
of Westminster.’’ Fuller says the term 
is applied to things ‘‘ of hop-pole height, 
wanting breadth proportionable there- 
unto,’’ and refers to a great gun in the 
Tower so called, taken to Westminster 
in troublous times. 

The large gun in Edinburgh Castle is 
called Mons Meg, and the bomb forged 
for the siege of Oudenarde, now in the 
city of Ghent, is called Mad Meg. 

In the Edinburgh Antiquarian Maga- 
zine, September, 1769, we read of ‘ Peter 
Branan, aged 104, who was six feet six 
inches high, and was commonly called 
Long Meg of Westminster, (See MEG.) 

Long Meg and her daughters. In the 
neighbourhood of Penrith, Cumberland, 
is a circle of 67 (Camden says 77) stones, 
some of them ten feet high, ranged in a 
circle, Some seventeen paces off, on the 
south side, is a single stone, fifteen feet 
high, called Long Meg, the shorter ones 
being called her daughters, (Greek, 
megas, great.) 

“This,and the Robrick stones in Oxfordshire, 
are supposed to have been erected at the investi- 
ture of some Danish kings, like the Kingstoler in 


Denmark, and the Moresteen in Sweden.”—Cam- 
den: Britannia, 


Long Odds. The odds laid on a horse 
which has apparently no chance of win- 
ning the race, Any similar bet. 


Long Parliament. The parliament 
which assembled November 38rd, 1640, 
and was dissolved by Cromwell on April 
20th, 1653 ; that is, 123 years, 


Long Peter. Peter Aartsen, the 
Flemish painter ; so called on account of 
his extraordinary height. (1507-1573.) 


Long Run. Jn the long run. Even- 
tually. Here ‘“‘long run’’ is not the 
correlative of a ‘‘short run,’’ but the 
Latin adverb demum, ultimately; in 


French, ‘‘ 4 la longue.” 
Long-Sword (Longue ἐμέο). William, 


the first Duke of Normandy. (Died 
943.) 
Long Tail. Cut and long tail. One 


and another, all of every description. 
The phrase had its origin in the practice 
of cutting the tails of certain dogs and 
horses, and leaving others in their natu- 
ral state, so that cut and long tail horses 
or dogs included all the species. Master 
Slender says he will maintain Anne 


Long-tailed 


Page like a gentlewoman. ‘‘Ah!”’ 
says he— 

“That I will, come cut and long tail under the 
degree of a squire [i.e. as well as any man can 
who is nota squire)}.’—Shakespewre: Merry Wives 
of Windsor, iii. 4. 

Long-tailed. How about the long- 
tailed beggar ὁ A reproof given to one 
who is drawing the longbow too freely. 
The tale is that a boy who had been a 
short voyage pretended on his return to 
have forgotten everything belonging to 
his native home, and asked his mother 
what she called that ‘‘long-tailed beg- 
gar,’’ meaning the cat, 


Long Tom Coffin. A sailor of noble 
daring, in The Pilot, by Cooper, 


Long Words. 

Agathokakological. 
Doctor.) 

Alcomiroziropoulopilousitounitapignac. 
The giantess. (Croquemitaine, iii. 2.) 

Amoronthologosphorus. (See Harr.) 
(The Three Hairs.) 

Anantachaturdasivratakatha. 
krit work.) 
Record.) 

Antipericatametanaparbeugedamphi- 
cribrationes Toordicantium. One ot the 
books in the library of St. Victor. (2ade- 
lais: Pantagruel, ii. 7.) 

Batrachomyomachia (battle of the 
frogs and mice). A Greek mock heroic. 

Cluninstaridysarchides. (Plautus.) 

Deanthropomorphisation. 

Don Juan Nepomuceno de Burionago- 
natotorecagageazcoecha. An emp/oyé in 
the finance department of Madrid (1867). 

Drimtaidhvrickhillichattan, in the Isle 
of Mull, Argyleshire, 

Honorificabilitudinitatibus, called the 
longest word in the (?) English lan- 
guage, It frequently occurs in old plays. 
(See Bailey’s Dictionary.) The ‘* quad- 
radimensionality ” is almost as long. 

“Thou art not so long by the head as honorific- 
abilitudinitatibus.”—Shakespeare: Love's Labour's 
Lost, v. 1. 

TInanthropomorphisability of deity. 

Jungefrauenzimmerdurchschwind- 
suchttoedtungs-gegenverein (German). 
(See Notes and Queries, vol, v. p. 124, 
first series.) 

Kagwadawwacomégishearg. An In- 
Gren chief, who died in Wisconsin in 

Lepadotemachoselachogaleokranioleip- 
sanodrimupotrimmatosilphioparaomelit - 
okatakeclummenokichlepikossuphophat- 
toperisteralektruonoptegkephalokigklop- 
eleiolagoosiraiobaletraganopterugon. It 
is one of the longest words extant (179 


(Southey: The 


(Sans- 
(See TZrtibner’s Literary 


771 


Longboat 


English and 169 Greek letters and con- 
sisting of 78 syllables). (Aristophanes : 
Ekklesiazousar, v. 1169.) 

Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrn- 
drobwlillandyssiliogogogoch. The name 
of a Welsh village in Anglesea. In the 
postal directory the first twenty letters 
only are given as a sufficient address for 
practical purposes, but the full name 
contains 659 letters. The meaning is, 
“The church of St. Mary in a hollow 
of white hazel, near to the rapid whirl- 
pool, and to St. Tisilio church, near to 
a red cave.”’ 

“What, Mr. Manhound, was if not enough thus 
to haye morcrocastebezastey erestegrigeligoscop- 
apondrillated us all in our upper members with 
your botched mittens, but you must also apply 
such morderegrippiatabirofreluchamburdureca- 
quelurintimpaniments on our shin-bones with the 
hard tops and extremities of your cobbled shoes.” 
—Rabeluis, illustrated by Gustave Dore, p, 428. 

They morramborizeverzengirizequo- 
4 uemorgasacbaquevezinemaftretiding 
my poor eye. (tabelais: Pantagruel, 
iv. 15. 

Nitrophenylenediamine. 
intense red colour. 


“ Dinitroaniline, chloroxynaphthalic acid which 
may be used for colouring wool in intense red ; 
aud nitropbenylenediamine of chromatic. bril- 
liancy.’—William Crookes: The Vimes, October 
5th, 1868. 


Poly phrasticontinomimegalondulaton. 

“Why not wind up the famous ministerial de- 
claration with ‘Konx Ompax’ or the mystic 
‘Om,’ or that difficult expressien ‘ Polyphrasti- 
continomimegalondulaton ?’’—The Star, 

M. N. Rostocostojambedanesse, author 
of After Beef, Mustard. (Rabelais: 
Pantagruel, ii. 7.) 

Sankashtachaturthivratodyapana. 
(Sanskrit work.) (Sce'Triibner’s Literary 
ftecord.) Forster gives one of 152 syl- 
lables, 

Tetramethyldiamidobenzhydrols, 


“The general depth of modern researches in 
structural chemistry must be explained, even to 
those who are not interested in the mystery of 
tryphenylmethans, the tetramethyldiamidobenz- 
hydrols, and other similarly terrific terms used hy 
chemists.”—Nineteenth Century (Aug., 1893, p. 248). 

“Miss Burney has furnished the longest com- 
pound in the English tongue : ‘the sudden-at-the- 
moment - though - from - lingering -illness - often- 
previously-expected death of Mr. Burney’s wife.” 
—De Vere. 

Ziirchersalzverbrauchsbuchhaltungs- 
verordnung, (Auws/and.) 

“Conturbabantur Constantinopolitani, 
Innumerahilibus sollicitudinibus.” 

“Constantinopolitan maladministration 
Superinduces denationalisation.” 

Longboat. Formerly the largest boat 
belonging to a ship, built so as to carry 
a great weight. A long-boat is often 
from 30 to 46 feet long, having a beam 
from 29 to ‘25 of its length. It has a 
heavy flat floor, and is carvel built. 


A dye of an 


Longbow 


2 


Lookers-on 


Longbow. 170 draw the longbow. 
To exaggerate. The force of an arrow 
in the longbow depends on the strength 
of the arm that draws it, so the force of 
a statement depends on the force of the 
speaker’s imagination. The longbow 
was the favourite weapon of the English 
from the reign of Edward II. till it was 
superseded by fire-arms. The ‘“ long- 
bow’’ was the hand-bow, as distin- 
guished from the crossbow or bow 
fitted on a stock. 


Longchamps. On Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday of Passion Week, 
the Parisians go in procession to Long- 
champs, near the Bois de Boulogne. 
This procession is made by private car- 
riages and hired cabs, and is formed by 
all the smartly-dressed men and women 
who wish to display the spring fashions. 
The origin of the custom is this: There 
was once a famous nunnery at Long- 
champs, noted for its singing. In Passion 
Week all who could went to hear these 
religious women sing the Ténébres ; the 
custom grew into a fashion, and though 
the house no longer exists, the proces- 
sion is as fashionable as ever. 


Longcrown. 
headed. 

That caps Longerown, and he capped 
the devil. That is a greater falsehood 
than the ‘‘ father of lies’? would tell. 


Longevity. The oldest man of 
modern times was Thomas Carn, if we 
may rely on the parish register of St. 
Leonard’s, Shoreditch, where it is re- 
corded that he died in the reign of 
Queen Elizabeth, aged 207. He was 
born in 1381, in the reign of Richard II., 
lived in the reigns of ten sovereigns, and 
died in 1588. Old Jenkins was only 160 
when he died, and remembered going 
(when he was a boy of twelve) with a 
load of arrows, to be used in the battle 
of Flodden Field. Parr died at the age 
of 152. William Wakley (according to 
the register of St. Andrew’s church, 
Shifnal, Salop) was at least 124 when he 
died. He was baptised at Idsal 1590, 
and buried at Adbaston, November 28, 
1714, and he lived in the reigns of eight 
sovereigns, Mary Yates, of Lizard 
Common, Shifnal, married her third 
husband at the age of 92, and died in 
1776, at the age of 127. 


Longius. The Roman soldier who 
smote our Lord with his spear. In the 
romance of King Arthur, this spear was 
brought by Joseph of Arimathea to Lis- 
tenise, when he visited King Pellam, 


A deep fellow, long- 


‘‘who was nigh of Joseph’s kin.’’ Sir 
Balim the Savage, being in want of a 
weapon, seized this spear, with which he 
wounded King Pellam. ‘‘ Three whole 
countries were destoyed’’? by that one 
stroke, and Sir Balim saw ‘ the people 
thereof lying dead on all sides.’’ (His- 
tory of Prince Arthur, vol i. chap. 41.) 
Generally called Lonainus. 


Longo Intervallo. Joximnus sed 
longo intervallo. Next (it is true), but at 
what a vast distance! Generally quoted 
** Longo intervallo.”’ 


Looby. A simpleton. (Welsh, //v), 
a dolt.) 
“The spendthrift and the plodding looby, 
The nice Sir Courtly, and the booby.’ 
Hudibras: Redivivus (1707). 
Look Alive. Be more active and 


energetic ; look sharp. 


Look Black (70) and Black Looks. 
(See BruAck - 2 <) 


Look Blue (70). To show signs of 
disappointment, disgust, or displeasure. 

“Squire Brown looked rather blue at having to 
pay £2 10s. for the posting expenses from Oxford.” 
—Hughes: Tom Brown at Oxford. 

Look Daggers (70). To look very 
angry, as if to annihilate you. Clytus 
says to Alexander, ‘* You cannot look 
me dead.”’ 

“You may look daggers, but use none.” 

Look as Big as Bull Beef (70). To 
look stout and hearty, as if fed on bull 
beef. Bull beef was formerly recom- 
mended for making men strong and 
muscular, 


Look before You Leap. Consider 
well before you act. ‘ Melius est cavére 
semper, quam patiri semel.”’ 

“And Jook before you ere you leap, 
For, as you sow, you're like to reap.” 
Butler: Hudibras, canto ii. part ii. 50”. 

Look for a Necdie in a Bottle of 

Hay (70). (See Borrie.) 


Look not a Gift Eorse in the 


Mouth. ‘Noli deites equi inspicere 
donati.” Do not cxamine a gift too 
critically. 


Look One Way and Row Ancther 
(To). ‘* Olera spectant, lardum tollunt.”’ 
To aim apparently at one thing, but 
really to be seeking something quite 
different. 


Look through Blue Glasses or 
Coloured Spectacles. To regard ac- 
tions in a wrong light; to view things 
distorted by prejudice. 

Lookers-on. Zhe man on the dyke 
always huris well. The man standing 


Looking Back 


on the mound, and looking at those who 
are playing at hurling, can see the faults 
and criticise them. Umpires are lookers- 
on. 


Looking Back. Unlucky. This arose 
from Lot’s wife,who looked back towards 
Sodom and was turned to a pillar of salt 
(Genesis xix. 26). 


Looking-glass. Jt isnlucky to break 
a looking-glass. The nature of the ill- 
luck varies ; thus, if a maiden, she will 
never marry; if a married woman, it 
betokens a death, etc. This superstition 
arose from the use made of mirrors in 
former times by magicians. If in their 
operations the mirror used was broken, 
the magician was obliged to give over 
his operation, and the unlucky inquirer 
could receive no answer. 

Looking-qlass of Lao reflected the mind 
as well as the outward form. (Citizen of 
the World, xlv.) 


Loom meansa utensil. (Anglo-Saxon, 
Joma). Thus “heir-loom’’? means a 
personal chattel or household implement 
which goes by special custom to the heir. 
The word was in familiar use in Prior’s 
time (1664-1721), for he says ‘‘a thousand 
maidens ply the purple loom.”’ 


Loony or Luny. A simpleton; a 
natural. Corruption of lunatic. 


Loophole. A way of escape, an 
evasion; a corruption of ‘‘louvre holes.” 
(See LOUVRE.) 


Loose. Having a tile loose. Not quite 
of sound mind. The head being the 
roof of the temple called the body. 

Out on the loose, Out on the spree; 
out of moral bounds. 


Loose-coat Field. The battle of 
Stamford in 1470. So called because the 
men under Lord Wells, being attacked 
by the Yorkists, threw off their coats 
that they might flee the faster. 


“Cast off their country’s coats to haste their 
speed away ; 
Which ‘ Loose-coat Field’ is called e’en to 
this day.” Drayton: Polyolbion, xxii. 
Loose Fish (4). A dissipated man. 
We also speak of a “queer fish,’’ and 
the word ‘‘fishy ’’ means of very doubt- 
ful character. A loose fish is one that 
has made its way out of the net; and 
applied to man it means one who has 
thrown off moral restraint. 
Loose-girt Boy (Ze). Julius Cesar 
was so nicknamed, 
Loose-strife. Botanically called 
Lysimachia, a Greek compound mean- 
ing the same thing. The author of 


773 


Lord Lovel 


Flora Domestica tells us that the Romans 
put these flowers under the yokes of 
oxen to keep them from quarrelling with 
each other ; for (says he) the plant keeps 
off flies and gnats and thus relieves horses 
and oxen from a great source of irrita- 
tion. Similarly in Collins’ Faithful 
Shepherdess, we read— 
“Yellow Lysimachus, to give sweet rest, 

To the faint shepherd, killing, where it comes, 

All busy gnats,and every fly that hums.” 
(Pliny refers the name to one of Alex- 
ander’s generals, said to have discovered 
its virtues.) 


Lorbrul'grud. The capital of Brob- 
dingnag. The word is humorously 
said to mean ‘‘ Pride of the Universe.”’ 
(Swift: Gulliver's Travels.) 

Lord. A nobleman. 

The word lord is a contraction of hlaf- 
ord (Saxon for ‘‘loaf-author ” or ‘‘ bread- 
earner’), Retainers were called hlaf- 
(δίας, or ‘‘bread-eaters.”’ Verstegan 
suggests hlaf-ford, ‘* bread-givers,’’ (See 
Lavy.) 

We have in Anglo-Saxon hlaf-ord, 
hlaford- gift (lordship), //aford - less 
(lordless), Alafordom (dominion), and 
many more similar compounds. 

* Lord, a hunchback (Greek, /ord-os, 
crooked), Generally ‘‘ My lord.”’ 


Lord. Drunkasalord. (See DRuNK.) 


Lord Burleigh. 4s significant as the 
shake of Lord Burleigh’s head. In The 
Critie, by Sheridan, is introduced a 
tragedy called the Spanish Armada. 
Lord Burleigh is supposed to be too 
full of State affairs to utter a word; he 
shakes his head, and Puff explains what 
the shake means. 


Lord Fanny. A nickname given to 
Lord Hervey for his effeminate and 
foppish manners. He painted his face, 
and was as pretty in his ways as a 
boarding-school miss. (In the reign of 
George IT.) 


Lord Foppington. <A coxcomb who 
considers dress and fashion the end and 
aim of nobility. (Vanbrugh: The Re- 
lapse.) 

Lord, Lady. When our Lord falls in 
our Lady's lap. That is, when Good 
Friday falls on the same date as Lady 
Day. (March 25th.) 

Lord Lovel. The bridegroom who 
lost his bride on the wedding-day. She 
was playing at hide-and-seek, and se- 
lected an old oak chest for her hiding- 
place. The chest closed with a spring 
lock, and many years after her skeleton 


Lord Mayor's Day 


774 Lose 


told the sad story of The Mistletoe Bough. 
Samuel Rogers introduces this story in 
his Jtaly (part i. 18). He says the 
bride was Ginevra, only child of Orsini, 
“an indulgent father.’’ The bridegroom 
was Francesco Doria, ‘‘ her playmate 
from her birth, and her first love.’’ 
The chest in which she was buried 
alive in her bridal dress was an 
heirloom, ‘richly carved by Antony of 
Trent, with Scripture stories from the 
life of Christ.’’ It came from Venice, 
and had ‘‘held the ducal robes of some 
old ancestor.’? Francesco, weary of his 
life, flew to Venice and ‘flung his life 
away in battle with the Turk.”’? Orsini 
went mad, and spent the live-long day 
‘wandering as in quest of something, 
something he could not find.’? Fifty 
years afterwards the chest was removed 
by strangers and the skeleton discovered, 


Lord Mayor’s Day, November 9th. 
So called because the Lord Mayor of 
London enters into office on that day, 
and inaugurates his official dignity with 
a street procession, followed by a grand 
banquet at the Mansion House. 


Lord Peter. The Pope is so called 
in The History of John Bull, by Dr. 
Arbuthnot. 


Lord Strutt. Charles II. of Spain 
is so called in The History of John Bull, 
by Arbuthnot. 


Lord Thomas and the Fair Annet 
or Elinor, had a lover’s quarrel, when 
Lord Thomas resolved to forsake Annet 
for a nut-brown maid who had houses 
andlands. On the wedding-day Annet, 
in bridal bravery, went to the church, 
when Lord Thomas repented of his folly, 
and gave Annet a rose. Whereupon the 
nut-brown maid killed her with a “ long 
bodkin from out her gay head-gear.”’ 
Lord Thomas, seeing Annet fall dead, 
plunged his dagger into the heart of the 
murderess, and then stabbed himself. 
Over the graves of Lord Thomas and 
fair Annet grew a ‘‘ bonny briar, and by 
this ye may ken right well that they 
were lovers, dear.’’ In some ballads the 
fair Annet is called the fair Elinor. 
(Perey : Reliques, ete., series iii. bk. 3.) 


Lord of Creation. Man. 


“Replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have 
dominion over the fish of the sea,and over the 
fowl of the air, and over every living thing that 
moveth upon the earth. ... Behold, I have given 
every 


Lord of Misrule, called in Scotland 
Abbot of Unreason, prohibited in 1555. 
Stow says, ‘At the feast of Christmas, 


in the king’s court, there was always 
appointed, on All-Hallow’s eve, a master 
of mirth and fun,’’ who remained in 
office till the Feast of Purification. A 
similar ‘“‘lord’’ was appointed by the 
lord mayor of London, the sheriffs, and 
the chief nobility. Stubbs tells us that 
these mock dignitaries had from twenty 
to sixty officers under them, and were 
furnished with hobby-horses, dragons, 
and musicians, They first went to church 
with such a confused noise that no one 
could hear his own voice. 


Lord of the Isles. Donald of Islay, 
who in 1346 reduced the Hebrides under 
his sway. The title had been borne by 
others for centuries before, and was also 
borne by his successors. One of Sir 
Walter Scott’s metrical romances is so 
called. This title is now borne by the 
Prince of Wales. 


Loreda’no (James). A Venetian pa- 
trician, and one of the ‘Council of 
Ten.” (Byron: The Two Foscari.) 


Lorenzo (in Edward Young’s 
Nights Thoughts). An atheist, whose 
remorse ends in despair. 

Lorenzo. The suitor of the fair Jessica, 
daughter of Shylock the Jew. (Shake- 
speare: Merchant of Venice.) 


Lorette. The house of Loretto. The 
Santa Casa, the reputed house of the 
Virgin Mary at Nazareth. It was 
‘‘ miraculously ’’ translated to Fiume in 
Dalmatia in 1291, thence to Recana’ti in 
1294, and finally to Macera’ta in Italy, 
to a plot of land belonging to the Lady 
Loretto. 

“Our house may have travelled through the air, 
like the house of Loretto, for aught I care.”— 
Goldsmith: The Good-natured Man, 1v. 1. 

*t There are other Lorettos: for in- 
stance, the Loretto of Austria, Mariazel 
(Mary in the Cell), in Styria. So called 
from the aniracleay Ore image of the 
Virgin. The image, made of ebony, is 
old and very ugly. Two pilgrimages 
every year are made to it. 

The Loretto of Bavaria (4/tétting) 
near the river Inn, where there is a 
shrine of the Black Virgin. 

The Loretto of Switzerland. insied- 
eln, a village containing a shrine of the 
“Black Lady of Switzerland.’ The 
church is of black marble and the image 
of ebony. 


Lorrequer (Harry). The hero of a 
novel so called, by Charles Lever. 


se. ‘’ Tis not I who lose the Athe- 


Lo 
nians, but the Athenians who lose me,” 


Tose Caste 


said Anaxag’oras, when he was driven 
out of Athens. 


Lose Caste (70). (Sve Casta.) 


Lose Heart (70). To be discouraged 
or despondent. Heart = courage. 


Lose not a Tide. Waste no time; 
set off at once on the business. 


Lose the Day (70). To lose the 
battle; to bedefeated. 70 win (or gain) 
the day is to be victorious; to win the 
battle, the prize, or any competition. 


. Lose the Horse or win the Saddle. 
Everything or nothing. ‘‘dut Cesar, aut 
nullus.’ A man made the bet of a 
horse that another could not say the 
Lord’s Prayer without a wandering 
thought. The bet was accepted, but 
before half-way through the person who 
accepted the bet looked up andsaid, ‘‘ By- 
the-bye,do you mean the saddle also? ”’ 


Losing a Shiv for a Ha’porth ο᾽ 
Tar. Suffering a great loss out of 
stinginess. By mean savings, or from 
want of some necessary outlay, to lose the 
entire article. For example, to save the 
expeuse of a nail and lose the horse-shoe 
as the first result, then to lame the horse, 
and finally perhaps kill it. 


Loss. 70 be at aloss. To be unable 
to decide. Tobe puzzled or embarrassed. 
As: ‘‘I am at a loss for the proper 
word.”’ ‘Je m’y perds,” or ‘Je suis 
bien embarrassée de dire.” 


Lost Island. Cephalo’nia, so called 
because it was only by chance that even 
those who had visited it could find it 
again. It is sometimes called ‘‘ The 
Hidden Island.”’ 


Lothair. A novel b 
raeli (Lord ΠΕ τὴ 
ters are supposed to 
following persons :—- 

The Oxford Professor, Goldwin Smith. 

Grandison, Cardinal Manning and 
Wiseman. 

‘Lothair, Marquis of Bute. 

Catesby, Monseigneur Capel. 

The Duke and Duchess, the Duke and 
Duchess of Abercorn, 

The Bishop, Bishop Wilberforce. 

Corisande, one of the Ladies Hamilton, 

Lotha'rio. 4 gay Lothario. A gay 
libertine, a seducer of female modesty, a 
debauchee. The character is from The 
Fair Penitent, by Rowe, and Rowe’s 
tragedy is from Massinger’s Fatal Dowry. 


Lothian (Scotland). So mamed from 
Llew, the second son of Arthur, also 


Benjamin Dis- 
. The charac- 
represent the 


775 


5 


Louisiana 


called Lothus. He was the father of 
Modred, leader of the rebellious army 
that fought at Camlan, A.D. 537. 

Arthur's eldest son was Urien,and his youngest 
Was Arawn. 

Lotus. The Egyptians pictured God 
sitting on a lote-tree, above the watery 
mud. Jamblichus says the leaves and 
fruit of the lote-tree being round repre- 
sent ‘‘the motion of intellect;’’ its 
towering up through mud symbolises the 
eminency of divine intellect over matter; 
and the Deity sitting on the lote-tree 
implies His intellectual sovereignty. 
(Myster. Egypt., sec. 7, cap. ii. p. 151.) 

Lotus. Mahomet says that a lote-tree 
stands in the seventh heaven, on the 
right hand of the throne of God. 

Dryopé of Ccha'lia was one day 
carrying her infant son, when she 
plucked a lotus flower for his amuse- 
ment, and was instantaneously trans- 
formed into a lotus. 

Lotis, daughter of Neptune, fleeing 
from Pria’pus, was metamorphosed into 
a lotus. 


Lotus-eaters or Lotoph’agi, in Ho- 
meric legend, are a people who ate of 
the lotus-tree, the effect of which was to 
make them forget their friends and 
homes, and to lose all desire of return- 
ing to their native land, their only wish 
being to live in idleness in Lotus-land. 
(Odyssey, xi.) 

A Lotus-eater, One living in ease and 
luxury. Lord Tennyson has a poem 
called The Lotus Eaters. 


The drink is made from the Zizy- 
phus Lotus, which grows in Jerbah, an 
island near Tunis, 


Loud Patterns, Flashy, showy ones. 
The analogy between sound and colour 
is very striking. 


Loud as Tom of Lincoln. The 
great church bell. 


Louis (S¢.) is usually represented as 
holding the Saviour’s crown of thorns 
and the cross; sometimes, however, he 
is represented with a pilgrim’s staff, and 
sometimes with the standard of the cross, 
the allusion in all cases being to his 
crusades. 


Louis Dix-huit was nicknamed Des 
Huitres, because he was a great gour- 
mand, and especially fond of oysters. 


Louisiana, U.S. America. So named 
in compliment to Louis XIV. of France. 
Originally applied to the French posses- 
sions in the Mississippi Valley. 


. 


Loup 


776 


Lovelace 


Loup. ‘Le loup sait bien ce que male 
béte pense’? [male = méchant]. ‘ Un 
fripon reconnait un fripon au premier 
coup dil.’ We judge others by our- 


selves. ‘‘ Chacun mesure tout a son 
aune.’’? We measure others in our own 
bushel. The wolf believes that every 


beast entertains the same wolfish 
thoughts and desires as it does itself. 
Plautus expresses the same idea thus: 
“ Insanire me aiunt ultro cwm ipsi in- 
saniunt ;”? and Cicero says, ‘* Malum 
conscientia suspiciosum facit,”” 


Louvre [Paris]. A corruption of 
Iupara, as it is called in old title- 
deeds. 

Dagobert is said to have built here a 
hunting-seat, the nucleus of the present 
magnificent pile of buildings. 

“ He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it.” 

Shakespeare: Henry V., ii. 4. 

Louvre. The tower or turret of a 
‘building like a belfry, originally designed 
for a sort of chimney to let out the 
smoke, (French, /’owvert, the opening.) 

Louvre boards in churches. Before 
chimneys were used, holes were left in 
the roof, called doovers or leuver holes. 
From the French V’owvert (the open 
boards). 


Louvre of St. Petersburg (Ze). 
The Hermitage, an imperial museum. 


Love (God of). (Anglo-Saxon ἔμ.) 
Cam'deo, in Hindu mythology. 
Camnade'va, in Persian mythology. 
Cupid, in Roman mythology. 

Eros, in Greek mythology. 

Freya, in Celtic mythology. 

Kama or Cama, in Indian mythology. 
(See BowYER, etc., etc.) 

4“ The family of love. Certain fanatics 
in the sixteenth century, holding tenets 
not unlike those of the Anabaptists. 

There is no love lost. Because the 
persons referred to have no love for each 
other. What does not exist cannot be 
lost. 


Love-lock. A small curl gummed to 
the temples, sometimes called a beaw or 
bow catcher. When men indulge in a 
curl in front of their ears, the love-lock 
is called a bell-rope—i.e. a rope to pull 
the belles after them. At the latter end 
of the sixteenth century the love-lock 
was a long lock of hair hanging in front 
of the shoulders, curled and decorated 
with bows and ribbons, 


Love-powders or Potions were 
drugs to excite lust. Once these love- 
charms were generally believed in ; thus, 
Brabantio accuses Othello of having 


| bewitched Desdemona with “ drugs to 


waken motion;’’ and Lady Grey was 
accused of having bewitched Edward 
IV. ‘‘by strange potions and amorous 
charms.’’ (Fabian, p. 4995.) 


Love and Lordship. Love and lord- 
ship never like fellowship. French, 
“ Amour et seigneurie ne veulent point de 
campaigne ;’’ German, ‘‘Liebe und herr- 
schaft leiden keine gesellschaft ;’’ Italian, 
“‘Aimor e seignoria non vogliono compag- 
nia. (Neither lovers nor princes can 
brook a rival.) 


Love ina Cottage. A marriage for 
love without sufficient means to main- 
tain one’s social status. However, 
‘‘ When poverty comes in at the door, 
love flies out of the window.”’ 


Love-in-Idleness. One of the 
numerous names of the pansy or hearts- 
ease. Originally white, but changed to 
a purple colour by the fall of Cupid’s 
bolt upon it. 

“Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell. 

It fellupon a little Western flower, 

Before, tmilk-white, now purple with love's 

wound ; 

The maidens call it Love-in-idleness.” 
Shakespeare : Midsummer Night's Dream, ii. 2. 
Love me, Love my Dog. St. Ber- 

nard quotes this proverb in Latin, ‘‘ Qui 
me amat, anat et canemmeam ;”’ French, 
“Qui aime Bertrand, aime son chien ;”’ 
Spanish, “ Quién bién quiérs a beliram, 
bien quiére asucan.”’ (If you love anyone, 
you will like all that belongs to him.) 


Love’s Girdle. (See CESTUS.) 


Love’s Labour's Lost (Shakespeare). 
Ferdinand, King of Navarre, with the 
three lords, Biron’, Longaville, and 
Dumain, make a vow to spend three 
years in study, during which time they 
bind themselves to look upon no woman. 
Scarce is the vow made when the Prin- 
cess of France, with Rosaline, Maria, and 
Catherine are announced, bringing a 
petition from the King of France. The 
four gentlemen fall in love with the four 
ladies, and send them verses; they also 
visit them masked as Muscovites. The 
ladies treat the whole matter as a jest, 
and when the gentlemen declare their 
intentions to be honourable impose upon 
them a delay of twelve months, to be 
spent in works of charity. If at the ex- 
piration of that time they still wish to 
marry, the ladies promise to lend a 
favourable ear to their respective suits. 


Lovel, the Dog. (See Rat, Cat, etc.) 


Lovelace. The hero of Richardson’s 
novel called Clarissa Harlowe. He is 


Lover’s Leap 


777 Luath 


a selfish voluptuary,a man of fashion, 
whose sole ambition is to ensnare female 
modesty and virtue. Crabbe calls him 
‘rich, proud, and crafty; handsome, 
brave, and gay.” 


Lover’s Leap. The promontory from 
which Sappho threw herself into the 


sea; now called Santa Maura. (Sce 
LEvucADIA.) 
Loving or Grace Cup. A large cup 


passed round from guest to guest at 
state banquets and city feasts. Miss 
Strickland says that Margaret Atheling, 
wife of Malcolm Kanmore, in order to 
induce the Scotch to remain for grace, 
devised the grace cup, which was filled 
with the choicest wine, and of which 
each guest was allowed to drink ad 
libitum after grace had been said. (His- 
toric Sketches.) 


Loving Cup. On the introduction of 
Christianity, the custom of wassailing 
was not abolished, but it assumed a 
religious aspect. The monks called the 
wassail bowl the poc'ulum carita'tis 
(loving cup), a term still retained in 


the London companies, but in the 
universities the term (race Cup is 
more general. Immediately after 


grace the silver cup, filled with sack 
(spiced wine) is passed round. The 
master and wardens drink welcome to 
their guests; the cup is then passed 
round to all the guests, (See GRACE 
Cup.) 

“ΠΑ loving or grace cup should always 
have two handles, and some have as 
many as four. 

Loving Cup. This ceremony, of drink- 
ing from one cup and passing it round, 
was observed in the Jewish paschal sup- 
per, and our Lord refers to the custom 
in the words, ‘‘ Drink ye all of it.’’ 


“He [the master of the house] laid hold of the 
vessel with both hands, lifted it up, and said— 
‘Blessed be Thou, O Lord our God, thou king of 
the world, who hast given us the fruit of the 
vine;* and the whole assembly said ‘Amen. Then 
drinking first himself from the cup, he passed it 
round to the rest.’—Eldad the Pilgrim, chap. 
ix. 


Low:-bell. Night-fowling, in which 
birds are first roused from their slum- 
ber by the tinkling of a bell, and then 
dazzled by a light so as to be easily 
caught. (Low, Scotch, lowe, aflame, as 
a ‘‘lowe of fyre ;’’ and dell.) 


“The sound of the low-hell makes the birds lie 
close, so that they dare not stir whilst you are 
pitching the net, for the sound thereof is dread- 
ful to them ; but the sight of the fire, much more 
terrible, makes them fly up, so that they become 
instantly entangled in the net."—Gent. Recreation. 


Low Church. The TZimes defines a 
Low Churchman as one ‘‘ who loves a 


Jew and hates the Pope.’”? We now call 
a Calvinistic episcopalian one of the Low 
Church because he holds ‘‘ church ritu- 
als’’ and the dogma of ‘‘ apostolic suc- 
cession ἢ in lower esteem than personal 
grace and faith in the ‘blood of the 
atonement.”’ 


Low Comedian (772), in theatrical 
parlance, is the farceur, but must not 
poach on the preserves of the ‘‘light 
comedian.” Paul Pry is a part for a 
‘low comedian,’’ Box and Cox are parts 
for a “‘ light comedian,”’ 


Low Mass is a mass without singing. 
It is called low ‘“‘ quia submissa voce 
celebratur.”’ ‘‘ Missa alta ’’ is performed 
musically, and alta voce, in a loud voice. 


Low Sunday. The Sunday next 
after Easter; so called because it is at 
the bottom of the Easter which it closes, 


Low to High. From low St, James’s 
up to high St. Paul’s (Pope: Satires), 
In the Bangorian controversy, Bishop 
Hoadly, a great favourite at St. James’s, 
was Low Church, but Dr. Hare, Dean 
of St. Paul’s, was High Church. 


Lower City (Zhe). 
Zion, was so called. 


Lower Empire. The Roman or 
Western, from removal of the seat of 
empire to Constantinople to the extinc- 
tion of that empire by the Turks in 1453. 


Lower your Sail. In French, ‘‘ Caler 
la voile,’’ means to salute; to confess 
yourself submissive or conquered; to 
humble oneself, 


Lowlanders of Attica were the 
gentry, so called because they lived on 
the plains, (Pedieis.) 

Lownde’an Professor (Cambridge 
University). A professor of astronomy 
(and geometry); the chair founded by 
Thomas Lowndes, Esq., in 1749. 


Acre, north of 


Loy. A long, narrow spade used in 
cultivating stony lands. 


Loyal. Only one regiment of all the 
British army is so called, and that is the 
‘‘ Loyal North Lancashire,’’ in two bat- 
talions, No. 47 and No. 81. It was so 
called in 1793, and probably had some 
allusion to the French revolutionists. 


Loys [/o-is]. So Louis was written in 
French till the time of Louis XIII. 


Luath (2 syl.). Cuthullin’s dog in 
Ossian’s Fingal; also the name of the 
‘poor man’s dog representing the pea- 
santry in The Twa Dogs, by Robert 


Liubber 


Burns. The gentleman’s dog is called 
Cesar. Also Fingal’s dog. (See Dog.) 
Lubber (4). A dolt. Seamen call 


an awkward sailor a land-lubber. A 
variant of ‘‘looby’’? (Welsh, d/ob, with 
a diminutive, ‘‘somewhat of a dunce 
or dolt.’’) 


Lubber’s Hole. A lazy cowardly 
way of doing what is appointed, or of 
evading duty. A seaman’s expression. 
Sailors call the vacant space between 
the head of a lower-mast and the edge 
of the top, the /ubber’s hole, because 
timid boys get through this space to the 
top, to avoid the danger and difficulties 
of the ‘‘futtock shrouds.” 


Lubberkin or Lubrican. (Irish, 
Lobaircin or Lep'rechaun.) <A fairy re- 
sembling an old man, by profession a 
maker of brogues, who resorts to out- 
of-the-way places, where he is discovered 
by the noise of his hammer. He is rich, 
and while anyone keeps his eye fixed 
upon him cannot escape, but the moment 
the eye is withdrawn he vanishes. 


Lubins. A species of goblins in 
Normandy that take the form of wolves, 
and frequent churchyards. They are 
very timorous, and take flight at the 
slightest noise. 

“71 a peur de lubins” (Afraid of 
ghosts). Said of a chicken-hearted 
person. 


Lucasian Professor. <A professor 
of mathematics in the University of 
Cambridge. This professorship was 
founded in 1663 by Henry Lucas, Esq., 
M.P. for the University. 


Lucasta, to whom Richard Love- 
lace sang, was Lucy Sacheverell, called 
by him /ux casta, i.e. Chaste Lucy. 


Luce. Flower de Luce. A corruption 
of fleur-de-lis (@.v.), more anciently 
written ‘ flomre delices,” a corruption of 
fiordilisa, the white iris. The French 
messenger says to the Regent Bedford— 


“Cropped are the flower de luces in your arms ; 
Of England's coat one-half is cut away.” | 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry VI, i. 1. 


referring of course to the loss of France. 
“ The luce: or lucy is a full-grown 
pike: Thus Justice Shallow says—‘‘ The 
uce is the fresh fish, the salt fish is an 
old coat ’’—i.e. Lucy is a new name, the 
old one was Charlecote. (Merry Wives 
of Windsor, i, 1.) (See FLEURS-DE-LYs.) 
Luce the full-grown pike, is the Latin 


778 


luci-us, from the Greek Jusos (a wolf), 


meaning the wolf of fishes. 


Lucifera 


Lucia di Lammermoor. Called 
Lucy Ashton by Sir Walter Scott, was 
the sister of Lord Henry Ashton of 
Lammermoor, who, to retrieve the fallen 
fortunes of the family, arranges a mar- 
riage between his sister and Lord Arthur 
Bucklaw (or Frank Hayston, laird of 
Bucklaw). Unknown to Henry Ashton, 
Edgardo (or Edgar), master of Ravens- 
wood), whose family has long been in a 
state of hostility with the Lammermoors, 
is in love with Lucy, and his attachment 
is reciprocated. hile Edgar is absent 
in France on an embassy, Lucy is made 
to believe, by feigned letters, that Edgar 
is unfaithful to her, and in her frenzy of 
indignation consents to marry the laird 
of Bucklaw ; but on the wedding night 
she stabs her husband, goes mad, and 
dies. (Donizetti: Lucia di Lammermoor, 
an opera; and Sir Waiter Scott: Bride 
of Lammermoor.) 


Lucian. The impersonation of the 
follies and vices of the age, metamor- 
phosed into an ass. The chief character 
in the Golden Ass of Apule’ius, 


Lucifer. The morning star. Venus 
is both an evening and a morning star: 
When she follows the sun, and is an even- 
ing star, she is called Hes'perus ; when 
she precedes the sun, and appears before 
sunrise, she is called Lucifer (the light- 
bringer). 

Proud as Lucifer. Very haughty and 
overbearing. Lucifer is the name given 
by Isaiah to Nebuchadnezzar, the proud 
but ruined king of Babylon: ‘‘Take up 
this proverb against the King of Baby- 
lon, and say, . . . How artthou fallen, 
from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morn- 
ing!”’ (Isa. xiv. 4, 12). The poets feign 
that Satan, before he was driven out of 
heaven for his pride, was called Lucifer, 
Milton, in his Paradise Lost, gives this 
name to the demon of ‘‘ Sinful Pride.”’ 


Lucifers (1833). An improvement 
on the Congreves and Prometheans. 
Phosphorus was introduced into the 
paste ; but phosphorus made the matches 
so sensitive that the whole box often 
ignited, children were killed by sucking 
the matches, and at Boulogne two sol- 
diers and a woman were poisoned by 
drinking coffee in which a child had put 
a ‘‘lucifer.’”? The manufacture of these 
matches was also very deleterious, pro- 
ducing ‘‘ jaw disease.’’ (See PROME- 
THEANS, SAFETY MACTHES.) 


Lucif‘era [Pride] lived ina splendid 
palace, only its foundation was of sand. 
The door stood always open, and the. 


Luciferians 


79 


= 


Lucus 


queen gave welcome to every comer. 
Her six privy ministers are Idleness, 
Gluttony, Lechery, Avarice, Envy, and 
Revenge. These six, with Pride herself, 
are the seven deadly sins. Her carriage 
was drawn by six different animals—viz. 
an ass, swine, goat, camel, wolf, and 
lion, on each of which rode one of her 
privy councillors, Satan himself being 
coachman. While here the Red-Cross 
Knight was attacked by Sansjoy, who 
would have keen slain if Duessa had not 


rescued him. (Spenser: Faerie Queene, 
bk. i. 4.) 
Lucifer’ians. A sect of the fourth 


century, who refused to hold any com- 
munion with the Arians, who had re- 
nounced their ‘terrors’? and been re- 
admitted into the Church. So called 
from Lucifer, Bishop of Cagliari, in 
Sardinia, their leader. 


Lucin'‘ian. The young prince, son 
of Dolopatos, the Sicilian monarch, en- 
trusted to the care of Virgil, the philo- 
sopher. (See SEVEN Wisk MASTERS, 
and DoLoPaAtos, ) 


Lucius. (Sce PUDENS.) 


Luck. Accidental good fortune. 
(Dutch, (uk; German, gliick, verb 
glucken, to succeed, to prosper.) 

Down on one’s luck. Short of cash and 
credit. ‘* Not in luck’s way,’’ not un- 
expectedly promoted, enriched, or other- 
wise benefited. 

Give a man luck and throw him into 
the sea. Meaning that his luck willsave 
him eyen in the greatest extremity. Re- 
ferring to Jonah and Ari’on. who were 
cast into the sea, but carried safely to 
Jand, the one by a whale and the other 
by a dolphin. 


Luck for Fools. This is a French 
proverb : ‘4 fow fortune.’ And again, 
** Fortune est nourrice de folic.” 


Luck in Odd Numbers, 
Onpp.) 


_ Luck of Eden Hall (7c). A drink- 
ing cup, said to have been given to Miss 
Zoe Musgrave on her marriage with Mr. 
Farquharson, and still in Eden Hall, 
Cumberland. The tale is, that it was 
snatched surreptitiously from the fairies, 
who attached this threat to it : 


“Tf that cup either break or fall, 
Farewell the luck of Eden Hall.” 


(See EDEN Hatt.) 

Luck or Lucky Penny. A trifle re- 
turned to a purchaser for good luck. A 
penny with a hole in it, supposed to 
ensure good luck, 


(See 


Lucky. 170 cut one’s lucky. To de- 
camp or make off quickly: I must cut 
my stick. As duck means chance, the 
phrase may signify, ‘‘I must give up 
my chance and be off. (See Cur. . .) 


Lucky Stone (4). A stone with a 
hole through it. (See Lucky PENNY.) 


Lucre’zia di Bor’gia, daughter of 
Pope Alexander VI., was thrice married, 
her last husband being Alfonso, Duke of 
Ferra’ra. Before her marriage with the 
duke she had a natural son named Gen- 
na’ro, who was sent to be brought up by 
a Neapolitan fisherman, When arrived 


| at man’s estate he received a letter in- 


forming him that he was nobly born, and 
offering him a commission in the army. 
In the battle of Rim’ini he saved the 
life of Orsini, and they became sworn 
friends. In Venice he is introduced to 
the young nobles, who tell him of the ill 
deeds of Lucrezia Borgia. Each of them 
has had some relative put to death by 
her agency. Genna’ro, in his indignation, 
mutilates the duke’s escutcheon with his 
dagger, knocking off the ‘‘B”’ of his 
name, and changing Borgia into Orgia 
(orgies). Lucrezia, not knowing who 
has offered the insult, requests the duke 
that the perpetrator may be put to death, 
but when she discovers it to be her own 
son gives him an antidote to neutralise 
the poison he has drunk, and releases 
him from his confinement. Scarcely is 
he liberated when he and his companions 
are invited by the Princess Neg’roni to 
a banquet, where they are all poisoned, 
Lucrezia tells Gennaro he is her son, and 
dies herself as soon as her son expires, 
(Donizetti's opera.) 


Lucullus sups with Lucullus. 
Said of a glutton who gormandises alone. 
Lucullus was a rich Roman soldier, 
noted for his magnificence and self- 
indulgence. Sometimes above £1,700 
was expended on a single meal, and 
Horace tells us he had 5,000 rich purple 
robes in his house. On one occasion a 
very superb supper was prepared, and 
when asked who were to be his guests 
the “rich fool’ replied, ‘‘ Lucullus 
will sup to-night with Lucullus.”’ (B.c. 
110-47.) 


Lucus a non Lucendo. An etymo- 
logical contradiction. The Latin word 
ducus means a ‘‘ dark grove,’’ but is said 
to be derived from the verb ἐμοῖο, to 
shine. Similarly our word black (the 
Anglo-Saxon b/@c) is derived from the 
verb bl@c-an, to bleach or whiten. 


Lucy 780 


Luddites 


Beldam. An ugly hag. From the 
French belle dame. 

Bellum [wa] quia min’ime bellum. 
(Priscian.) Bellu, a beautiful thing. 

Calid (hot) radically the same as the 
Saxon ca/d, German salt (cold). 

Cleave, to part, also signifies to stick 
together. (Saxon, clifan, to adhere.) 

Curta'na (the instrument that shortens 
by cutting off the head; French covrt, 
Italian corto) is the blunt sword, emble- 
matical of mercy, borne before our 
sovereigns at their coronation. 

Devoted (attached to) is the Latin 
devotus (cursed), 

Eumenidés (the well-disposed) ; the 
Furies. 

Euonyma (good name) ; is poisonous. 

Hiren, a sword,a bully. (Gk, ἐγδηδ, 
peace.) 

Kalo-Johannes, son of Alexius Com- 
nenés. Called alos (handsome) because 
he was exceedingly ugly and under- 
sized. He was, however, an active and 
heroic prince, and his son Manual (con- 
temporary with Richard Coeur de Lion) 
was even more heroic still. 

Lambs were ruffians formerly em- 
ployed at elections to use “physical 
force’? to deter electors from voting for 
the opposition. 

Leucosphere, the inner and brighter 
portion of the sun’s corona. Itis neither 
white nor spherical. 

Lily-white, a chimney-sweep. 

Religion, bond-service (ve-ligo), is the 
service of which Christ has made us 
free. 

Speaker of House of Commons. The 
only member that never makes speeches. 

Solomon, George III., so called by Dr. 
Wolcott; because he was no Solomon. 

In their marriage service the Jews 
break a wine-glass ; the symbol being 
‘as this glass can never be rejoined, so 
may our union be never broken,’’ (See 
MISNOMER.) 


Lucy (St.). Patron saint for those 
afflicted in the eyes. It is said that a 
nobleman wanted to marry her for the 
beauty of her eyes; so she tore them out 
and gave them to him saying, ‘‘ Now let 
me live to οὔ." The story says that 
her eyesight was restored ; but the 
rejected lover accused her of ‘ faith in 
Christ,’? and she was martyred by a 
sword thrust into her neck. bt. Lucy is 
represented in art carrying a palm 
branch, and bearing a platter with two 
eyes on it, 


Lucy and Colin. ἡ ballad by 
Thomas Tickell, translated into Latin by 


Vincent Bourne. Colin forsook Lucy of 
Leinster for a bride ‘‘ thrice as rich.” 
Lucy felt that she was dying, and made 
request that she might be taken to the 
church at the time of Colin’s wedding. 
Her request was granted, and when 
Colin saw Lucy’s corpse, ‘‘ the damps of 
death bedewed his brow, and he died.’’ 
Both were buried in one tomb, and to 
their grave many a constant hind and 
plighted maid resort to ‘‘ deck it with 
garlands and true-love knots.”’ 


Lud. A mythical king of Britain. 
General Lud. (See Luppites.) 


Lud’s Bulwark. 
(See above.) 


Lud’s Town. London; so called 
from Lud, a mythical king of Britain. 
Ludgate is, by a similar tradition, said 
to be the gate where Lud was buried. 
(See LONDON.) 


“And on the gates of Lud's town set your heads.” 
Shakespeare: Cymbeline, iv. 2. 


Ludgate. Stow says, ‘‘ King Lud, 
repairing the city, called it after his 
name Lud’s town ; the strong gate which 
he built in the west part he likewise 
named Lud-gate. In the year 1260 the 
gate was beautified with images of Lud 
and other kings. Those images, in the 
reign of Edward VI., had their heads 
smitten off. .. . . Queen Mary did set 
new heads upon their old bodies again. 
The twenty-eighth of Queen Elizabeth 
the gate was newly and beautifully 
built, with images of Lud and others, as 
before.”? (Seavey of London.) The more 
probable etymon of Lud-gate is the 
Anglo-Saxon /eode (people), similar to 
the Porto del populi of Rome. 

τ Mud] ἜΠΗ that gate of which his name 15 
ught, 


By which he lies entombéd solemnly.” 
Spenser: Faérie Queene, ii. x. 46. 


"ἡ Ludgate was originally built by the barons, 
who entered London, destroyed the Jews’ houses, 
and erected this gate with their ruins. It was 
used as a free prison in 1373, but soon Jost that 
privilege. A most romantic story is told of Sir 
Stephen Forster, who was lord mayor in 1454. He 
bad been a prisoner at Ludgate, and begged 
at the gate, where he was seen by a rich widow, 
who bought his liberty, took him into her service, 
and afterwards married him. To commemorate 
this strange eventful history, Sir Stephen en- 
larged the prison accommodation, and added a 
chapel. The old gate was taken downand rebuilt 
in 1586. The new-built gate was destroyed in the 
Great Fire of London, and the next gate (used 
also asa prison for debtors) was pulled down in 
1760, the prisoners having been removed to the 
London Workhouse, and afterwards to the Gilt- 
spur Street Compter. 


Luddites (2 syl.). Riotous work- 
men who went about the manufacturing 


districts breaking machines, under the 
notion that machinery threw men out of 


Ludgate prison. 


Ludlum 


employ. Miss Martineau says that the 


term arose from Ned Lud, of Leices- 
tershire, an imbecile who was much 
hounded by boys. One day he chased a 
set of tormentors into a house, and broke 
two stocking-frames, whence the leader 
of these rioters was called General Lud, 
his chief abettors Lud’s wives, and his 
followers Luddites. (1811-1816.) 


Ludlum. (See Lazy.) 
Luez. (See Luz.) 


Luff. The part towards the wind. 
The /uff of a vessel is the roundest part 
of her bow. (Dutch, /oef, a weather- 
gauge.) 

To luff is to turn the head of a ship 
towards the wind. 

Luff !—i.e. Put the tiller on the lee- 
side. This is done to make the ship sail 
nearer the wind. 

Luff round! Throw the ship’s head 
right into the wind. 

Luff a-lee! Same as luff round. 

A ship is said to spring her luff when 
she yields to the helm by sailing nearer 
the wind. 

Keep the luff. The wind side. 


Lufra. Douglas’s dog, ‘‘the fleetest 
hound in all the North.’? (Six Walter 
Scott: Lady of the Lake, v. 25.) (See 
Doe.) 

Luggie. The warlock who, when 
storms prevented him from going to sea, 
used to sit on ‘‘Luggie’s Knoll,’’ and 
fish up dressed food. 


Luggnagg. An island mentioned in 
Gulliver's Travels, where people live for 
ever. Swift shows the evil of such a 
destiny, unless accompanied with eternal 
youth. (See STRULDBRUGS. ) 


Luke (S¢.). Patron saint of painters 
and physicians. Tradition says he 
painted a portrait of the Virgin Mary. 
From Col. iv. 14 he is supposed to have 
been a physician. 

St. Luke, in Christian art, is usually 
represented with an ox lying near him, 
and generally with painting materials, 
Sometimes he seems engaged painting a 
picture of the Virgin and infant Saviour, 
his descriptions of the early life of the 
Saviour being more minute than that 
of the other envangelists. Metaphrastus 
mentions the skill of St. Luke in paint- 
ing; John of Damascus speaks of his 
portrait of the Virgin (p. 631: Paris, 
1712). Many pictures still extant are 
attributed to St. Luke ; but the artist was 
probably St. Luke, the Greek hermit; 
for certainly these meagre Byzantine 


781 


Tumine Sicco 


productions were not the works of the 
evangelist. (See Lanzi: Storia Pittorica 
dell’ [talia, i. 10.) 

St. Luke’s Club or The Virtuo'sis. An 
artists’ club, established in England by 
Sir Antonio Vandyke, and held at the 
Rose Tavern Fleet Street. There was 
an academy of St. Luke founded by 
the Paris artists in 1391; one at Rome, 
founded in 1593, but based on the 
“ὁ Compagnia di San Luca ”’ of Florence, 
founded in 1345; a similar one was 
established at Sienna in 1355. 

St. Luke’s Summer, called by the 
French (été de 5. Martin; hence the 

hrase ‘“ L’été de la δ. Denis a la δ. 

Lartin,’’ from October 9th to November 
llth, meaning generally the latter end 
of autumn, 

“_.... St. Luke’s short summer lived these men, 

Nearing the goal of threescore years and ten.’ 

Morris: Earthly Paradise (March). 

As light as St. Luke's bird (i.e. an ox), 
Not light at all, but quite the contrary. 
St. Luke is generally represented writ- 
ing, while behind him is an ox, sym- 
bolical of sacrifice. The whole tableau 
means that Luke begins his gospel with 
the priest sacrificing in the Temple. 

Matthew is symbolised by a man, because he 
begins his gospel with the manhood of Jesus as a 
descendant of David ; Mark, by a lion, because he 
begins his gospel with the baptism in the wilder- 
ness; John, by an eagle, because he begins his 
gospel by soaring into heaven,and describing the 
pre-existing state of the Logos. 

Luke’s Iron Crown. George and 
Luke Dosa headed an unsuccessful 
revolt against the Hungarian nobles in 
the early part of the sixteenth century. 
Luke (according to Goldsmith) under- 
went the torture of the red-hot iron 
crown, as a punishment for allowing 
himself to be proclaimed king. History 
says it was George, not Luke. (The 
Traveller.) 

Lullian Method. A mechanical aid 
to the memory, by means of systematic 
arrangements of ideas and subjects, 
devised by Raymond Lully, in the 
thirteenth century. 


Lumber (from Lombard). A pawn- 
broker’s shop. Thus Lady Murray 
writes: ‘‘ They put all the little plate 
they had in the lumber, which is pawn- 
ing it, till the ships came home.”’ 


Lumine Sicco (72). Disinterestedly ; 
as a dry question to be resolved without 
regard to other matters. 


_ “Tf physiological considerations have any mean- 
ing, it will be always impossible for women to 
view the Bubieck (of women’s suffrage] in lumine 
sicco.’—The Nineteenth Century (The Hon. Mrs, 
Chapman, April, 1886). 


Lump 


Dod 


4 


82 


Lupus in Fabula 


Lump. Jf you don’t like it, you may 
lump it. Whether you like to do it or 
not, no matter; it must be done. Here 
‘‘lump it’? means ‘‘to gulp it down,” 
or swallow unwillingly, to put up with it 
unwillingly but of necessity. Thus we 
say of medicine, ‘lump it down,”’ i.e. 
gulp it down. (Danish, gulpen, to 
swallow.) 


Lumpkin (Jovy), in She Stoops to 
Conquer, by Goldsmith. A sheepish, 
mischievous, idle, cunning lout, ‘‘ with 
the vices of a man and the follies of a 
boy ; ’’ fond of low company, but giving 
himself the airs of the young squire. 


Lun. So John Rich called himself 
when he performed harlequin (1681- 
1761). 

“On the one Folly sits, hy some called Fun, 


And on the other his arch-patron Lun.” 
Churchill. 


Luna. An ancient seaport of Gen’oa, 
whence the marble quarried in the 
neighbourhood is ea ‘“marmo lun- 
ense.”’? (Orlando Furioso.) 

Conte di Luna. Garzia, brother of 
Count Luna, had two sons, One day a 
gipsy was found in their chamber, and 
being-seized, was condemned to be burnt 
alive. The daughter of the gipsy, out 
of revenge, vowed vengeance, and stole 
Manzri’co, the infant son of Garzia. It 
so fell out that the count and Manrico 
both fell in love with the Princess Leo- 
nora, who loved Manrico only. Luna 
and Manrico both fall into the hands of 
the count, and are condemned to death, 
when Leonora promises to ‘‘ give her- 
self’? to Luna, provided he liberates 
Manrico, The count accepts the terms, 
and goes to the prison to fulfil his 
promise, when Leonora dies from poison 
which she has sucked from a ring. Soon 
as Manrico sees that Leonora is dead, he 
also dies. (Verdi: Il Trovatore, an 
opera.) 


Lunar Month. About four weeks 
from new moon to new moon, 


Lunar Year. Twelve lunar months. 
There are 13 lunar months in a year, 
13 K 4 = 52 weeks. 


Lunatics. Moon-struck persons. 
The Romans believed that the mind 
was affected by the moon, and that 
‘lunatics’? were more and more frenzied 


as the moon increased to its full. (See 
AVERTIN. ) 
“The various mental derangements . . . which 


have been attributed to the influence of the moon, 
hare given to this day the name lunatics to per- 
sons suffering from serious mental disorders,”— 
Crozier: Popular Errors, chap. iy. p. 53. 


| 


Luncheon. (Welsh. donc or Ilwne, 
a gulp; dlyneu, to swallow at a gulp.) 
The notion of its derivation from the 
Spanish once, eleven, is borrowed from 
the word nuncheon, ?.e. ”déu-mete, anoon 
repast. Hence Hudibras : 


“When, laying hy their swords and truncheons, 
They took their breakfasts, or their nuncheons.” 
Book i. 1, lines 345, 346. 


In Letter Book G, folio iv. (27 Ed- 
ward II.), donations of drink to work- 
men are called nonechenche. (Riley: 
Memorials of London.) 


Lungs of London. The parks. In 
a debate, June 30th, 1808, respecting 
encroachments upon Hyde Park, Mr. 
Windham said it was the ‘lungs of 
London.”’ 


Lunsford. A name used iv terrorem 
over children, Sir Thomas Lunsford 
was governor of the Tower; a man of 
most vindictive temper, and the dread of 
everyone. 


“ Make children with your tones to run for’t, 
As bad as Bloodybones or Lunsford.” 
Butler: Hudibras, iii, 2. 


Lu'percal (712), strictly speaking, 
meant the place where Romulus and 
Remus were suckled by the wolf (/upus). 
A yearly festival was held on this spot 
on Feb. 15, in honour of Lu’percus, the 
god of fertility. On one of these festi- 
vals Antony thrice offered to Julius 
Cesar a kingly crown, but seeing the 
people were only half-hearted, Czesar put 
it aside, saying, ‘‘ Jupiter alone is king of 
Rome.’’ Shakespeare makes Antony 
allude to this incident : 

“ You all did see that on the Lupercal 

T thrice presented hima kingly crown, 
Which he did thrice refuse.” 
Julius Cesar, iii. 2. 

*t Shakespeare calls the Lupercalia 
“‘the feast of Lupercal’’ (act i. 1,), and 
probably he means the festival in An- 
tony’s speech, not the place where the 
festival was held. 


Lupine. He does not know a libel from 
a lupine, In Latin: ‘‘Ignorat quid 
distent era lupinis,’”’ ‘He does not know 
good money from a counter, or a hawk 
from a handsaw.’’ The Romans called 
counters lupines or beans. A libel was 
a small silver coin the tenth part of a 
denarius = the as. 


Lupus et Agnus. A mere pretence 
to found a quarrel on. The words are 
the Latin title of the well-known fable 
of The Wolf and the Lamb. 


Lupus in Fabula. (Sve above.) 


“* Lupus in fabula, answered the abbot, scorn- 
fully. ‘The wolf accused the sheep of muddying 
the stream, when he drank in it above her,’ "—Sir 
W. Scott: The Monastery, last chapter. : 


Lurch 


᾿ς Lurch. 170 leave in the lurch. To 
leave a person ina difficulty. In crib- 
bage a person is left in the lurch when 
his adversary has run out his score of 
sixty-one holes before he himself has 
turned the corner (or pegged his thirty- 
first) hole. In cards it is a slam, that 
is, when one of the players wins the 
entire game before his adversary has 
scored a single point or won a trick, 


Lush. Beer and other intoxicating 
drinks ; so called from Lushington the 
brewer. 


Lu’siad or The Lusiads. The ad- 
ventures of the Lusians or Portuguese 
under Vasquez da Gama in their “ dis- 
covery of India.’’ The fleet first sailed 
to Mozambique, in Africa, but Bacchus 
(the guardian power of the Mahometans) 
raised a commotion against the Lusians, 
and a battle ensued in which the Lusians 
were victorious. The fleet was next 
conducted by treachery to Quil’oa, a 
harbour on the east coast of the same 
continent ; but Venus or Divine love, 
to save her favourites from danger, 
drove them away by a tempest, and 
Hermés bade Gama steer for Melinda, 
in Africa. At Melinda the Lusians were 
hospitably received, and the king of the 
country not only vowed eternal friend- 
ship, but also provided a pilot to conduct 
the fleet to India. In the Indian Ocean 
Bacchus tried to destroy the fleet, but 
ΚΕ the silver star of Divine love’’ calmed 
the sea, and Gama arrived at India in 
safety. Having accomplished his object, 
Gama returned to Lisbon. 

N.B. Gama sailed three times to 
India :—(1) with four vessels, in 1497, 
returning to Lisbon in two years and 
two months ; he was appointed admiral 
of the Eastern seas. (2) In 1502, with 
twenty ships, when he was attacked by 
the Zamorin or king of Calicut, whom 
he defeated, and returned to Lisbon the 
year following; and (3) when John ITI. 
appointed him viceroy of India. He 
established his government at Cochin, 
where he died in 1525. It is the first of 
these voyages which is the subject of 
the Lusiad by Camoens. 


Lusita‘nia. Ancient name for Por- 
tugal, said to be so called from Lusus. 
(See Lusus.) 


Lusita’nian Prince. Don Henry, 
third son of John I. ‘‘ the Great,’’ King 
of Portugal— 

“Who, heaven-inspired, 
ΤΟ love of useful glory roused mankind, 
And in unbounded commerce mixed the world.” 
ety per ~ Thomson : Summer. 


Ταῦ 


Lustral Water. Water for aspersing 
worshippers was kept in an aspersorium, 
that those who entered or left the temple 
might dip their fingers into the water or 
be sprinkled by a priest. The same may 
be said of Indian pagodas, and the cus- 
tom prevailed in ancient Egypt, and 
Etruria, with the Hebrews, and almost 
all the nations of antiquity. In Rome 
the priest used a small olive or laurel 
branch for sprinkling the people. Infants 
were also sprinkled with lustral water. 


Lustrum. A space of five years. The 
word means a purification. These public 
expiations were made at Rome by one of 
the censors every fifth year, at the con- 
clusion of the census. (Latin, were, to 
purify.) 


Lus'us. The sons or race of Lusus. 
Pliny (iii. 1) tells us that Lusus was the 
companion of Bacchus in his travels, and 
settled a colony in Portugal; whence 
the country was termed Lusitania, and 
the inhabitants Lusians. 


Lusus Natura. A freak of nature; 
as a man with six toes, a sheep with 
two heads, or a stone shaped like some 
well-known object, ete. 


Lutestring. A glossy silk; a cor- 
ruption of the French word Justrine 
(from Justre). 

To speak in lutestring. Flash, highly- 
polished oratory. The expression was 
first used in Junius, Shakespeare has 
“ὁ taffeta phrases and silken terms pre- 
cise.”” We callinflated speech “ fustian ἢ 
(q.v-) or ‘‘ bombast”’ (q.v.); say a man 
talks stuff ; term a book or speech made 
up of other men’s brains, shoddy (q.v.) ; 
sailors call telling a story ‘‘ spinning a 
yarn,”’ etc. ete. 


Lute’tia. Mud-hovels; the ancient 
name of Paris. The Romans call it 
Lutetia Parisidrum, the mud-town of 
the Parisi, The former word being 
dropped, has left the present name Paris. 


Luther’s Hymn. “ Great God, what 
do I see and hear,”’ and ‘‘ A safe strong- 
hold,’’ ete. 


Lu'therans. Dr. Eck was the first 
to call the followers of Martin Luther 
by this name, It was used by way of 
contempt. 


Lu'tin. A sort of goblin in the 
mythology of Normandy, very similar 
to the house-spirits of Germany and 
Scandinavia. Sometimes it assumes the 


Luxembergers 


784 


Lyme-hound 


form of a horse ready equipped, and in 
this shape is called Le Cheval Bayard. 


To lutin is to twist hair into elf- 
locks. Sometimes these mischievous 


urchins so tangle the mane of a horse or 
head of a child that the hair must be 
cut off. 

Le Prince Lutin, by the Countess 
D’Aulnoy. 


Luxembergers. The people of 
Luxemberg. Similarly we have Augs- 
burgers, Carlsburgers, Edinburghers, Fri- 
burgers, Hamburghers and many more. 


Luz or Luéz. The indestructible 
bone ; the nucleus of the resurrection 
body. 


“How doth a man revive again in the world to 
come ?* asked Hadrian ; and Joshua Ben Hana- 


ni‘ah made answer. ‘From luz in the backbone.’ 
He then went on to demonstrate this to him: He 
took the bone luz, and put it into water, but the 
water bad no action on it; he put it in the fire, 


Dut the fire consumed it not; he placed it ina 
mill, but could not grind it; and laid it on an 
obi but the bammer crushed it not.'"—Light- 
oot. 


“The learnéd rabbins of the Jews 
Write there's a bone, which they call luez ...” 


Butler: Hudibras, iii. 2. 

Lybiius (Si). A very young knight 
who undertook to rescue the lady of 
Sinadone. After overcoming various 
knights, giants, and enchanters, he en- 
tered the palace of the lady. Presently 
the whole edifice fell to pieces about his 
ears, and a horrible serpent coiled round 
his neck and kissed him. The spell 
being broken, the serpent turned into 
the lady of Sinadone, who married the 
knight that so gallantly rescuea her. 
(Libeaux, a romance.) 


Lycaon‘ian Tables|[ Lycaoniemense). 
Execrable food. Lyca’on, desirous of 
testing the divine knowledge of Jove, 
who had honoured him with a visit, 
served up human flesh on his table ; for 
which the god changed him into a wolf. 


Lyc’idas. The name under which 
Milton celebrates the untimely death of 
Edward King, Fellow of Christ College, 
Cambridge, who was drowned in his 
passage from Chester to Ireland, August 
10th, 1037. He was the son of Sir John 
King, Secretary for Ireland. 


Lycis’ca (half-wolf, half-dog). One 
of the dogs of Acteon. In Latin it is 
a common term for a shepherd’s dog, 
and is so used by Virgil (Eeloguwe iii. 18). 
(See Doa.) 

Lycopo’dium. Wolf’s foot, from a 
fanciful resemblance thereto. 


Lydford Law is, ‘punish first and try 
afterwards. Lydford, in the county of 


Devon, was a fortified town, in which 
was an ancient castle, where were held 
the courts of the Duchy of Cornwall. 
Offenders against the stannary laws 
were confined before trial in a dungeon 
so loathsome and dreary that it gave 
rise to the proverb referred to. The 
castle was destroyed by the Danes. (See 
ΟὟΡΑΒ JUSTICE, CowPER’S LAW.) 
“T oft have heard of Lydford law, 
How in the morn they hang and draw, 
And sit in judgment later.” 
A Devonshire Poet. 

Lydia, daughter of the King of Lydia, 
was sought in marriage by Alcestes, a 
Thracian knight; his suit was refused, 
and he repaired to the King of Armenia, 
who gave him an army, with which he 
laid siege to Lydia. He was persuaded 
by Lydia to raise the siege. The King 
of Armenia would not give up the pro- 
ject, and Alcestes slew him. Lydia now 
set him all sorts of dangerous tasks to 
‘* prove the ardour of his love,’’ all of 
which he surmounted. Lastly, she in- 
duced him to kill all his allies, and 
when she had thus cut off the claws of 
this love-sick lion she mocked him, 
Alcestes pined and died, and Lydia was 
doomed to endless torment in hell, where 
Astolpho saw her, to whom she told her 
story. (Orlando Furioso, bk. xvii.) 


Lydia Languish, in Zhe Rivals, by 
Sheridan. 


Lydian Poet (712). Alcman of 
Lydia, (Flourished 8.6. 670.) 


Lying Traveller (7/c). So Sir John 
Mandeville has been unjustly called. 
(1300-1372.) 


Lying by the Wall. Dead but not 
buried. Anglo-Saxon, we@/ (death). He 
is lying with the dead. 


Lying for the Whetstone. Said of 
a person who is grossly exaggerating 
or falsifying a statement. One of the 
Whitsun amusements of our forefathers 
was the lie-wage or lie-match; he who 
could tell the greatest lie was rewarded 
with a whetstone to sharpen his wit. 
The nature of these contests may be 
illustrated by the following well-known 
extravaganza: one of the combatants 
declared he could see a fly on the top of 
a church-steeple; the other replied, 
‘¢Oh yes, I saw him wink his eye.”’ 

When Sir R. Dighy declared he had seen the 
“philosopher's stone,” Bacon quizzically replied, 
“perhaps it was a whetstone.” 

Lyme-hound and Gaze-hound. The 
stanch lyme-hound tracks the wounded 


Lynceus 


buck over hill and dale. The fleet gaze- 
hound kills the buck at view. 

“Thou art the lyme-hound, I am the gaze- 
hound. ... Thou bast deep sagacity and unre- 
lenting purpose, a steady, long-breathed malignity 
of nature, that surpasses mine, But then, I am 
the bolder, the more ready, both at action and 
expedient... . I say... shall we hunt in 
couples ?7"—Sir W. Scott : Kenilworth, chap. iy. 

Lyn’ceus (2 syl.) was so sharp-sighted 
he could see through the earth, and 
distinguish objects nine miles off. 

“That Lynceus may be matched with Gautard’s 
siglir.” Hall: Satires, iv. 1. 

“Non possis oculo quantum contendere Lynceus.” 
Horace: 1 Epistle, i. 28. 

Lynch Law. Mob-law, law ad- 
ministered by private persons. Ac- 
cording to Webster, the word lynch 
refers toa Mr. James Lynch, a farmer, of 
Piedmont, in Virginia. The tale is that, 
as Piedmont, on the frontier, was seven 
miles from any law court, the neigh- 
bours, in 1686, selected James Lynch, a 
man of good judgment and great im- 
partiality, to pass sentence on offenders 
for the nonce. His judgments were so 
judicious that he acquired the name of 
Judge Lynch, and this sort of law went 

g Ne ἢ 

by the name of Lynch law. In con- 
firmation of this story, we are told there 
was a James Lynch Fitz-Stephen, who 
was warden of Galway in 1526; and in 
the capacity of warden he passed sen- 
tence of death on his own son for 
murder. (See BURLAW.) 


son: English Traits, cbap. ix. 


785 


Lyneh-pin. (Anglo-Saxon, /ynis, an | 
axle), whence club. (Qy. lynch-law.) 
Lynchno’bians. Booksellers and 


publishers. Rabelais says they inhabit 
a little hamlet near Lantern-land, and 
live by lanterns. (Pantag’ruel, v. 33.) 


Lynx, proverbial for its piercing eye- 
sight, is a fabulous beast, half dog and 
half panther, but not like either in cha- 
racter. The cat-like avimal now called 
a lynx is not remarkable for keen-sight- 
edness. 


Lynx-eyed. Having as keen a sight 
asalynx. Some think the word lynx 
is a perversion of Lynceus. (See above.) 


Lyon King-of-Arms. Chief heraldic 
officer for Scotland; so called from the 
lion rampant in the Scottish regal es- 
cutcheon. 


Lyonnesse (3 50]... ‘‘ That sweet 
land of Lyonnesse’’—a tract between 
the Land’s End and the Scilly Isles, now 
submerged full ‘forty fathoms under 
water.’’ Arthur came from this mythical 
country. ἔξ i 


50 


M 


7 


Lyre (The). That of Terpander and 
Olympus had only three strings; the 
Scythian lyre had five; that of Si- 
mouidés had eight; and that of Timo- 
theus (3 syl.) had twelve. It was 
played either with the fingers or with a 
plectrum, The lyre is called by poets a 
‘*shell,’’? because the cords of the lyre 
used by Orpheus (2 syl.), Amphion, and 
Apollo, were stretched on the shell of a 
tortoise. Hercules used boxwood instead. 

Amphi'on built Thebes with the music 
of his lyre, for the very stones moved of 
their own accord into walls and houses. 

Arion charmed the dolphins by the 
music of his lyre, and when the bard was 
thrown overboard one of them carried 
him safely to Tz’narus. 

Hercules was taught music by Linus. 
One day, being reproved, the strong 
man broke the head of his master with 
his own lyre. 

Orpheus charmed savage beasts, and 
even the infernal gods, with the music 
of his lyre. 


Lysander and Rosicrucius, in the 
romance called Bibliomania, are meant 
for the author himself, Thomas Frog- 
nall Dibdin, D.D., a bibliographer, well 
known for his Classics—i.c. book on 
the Rare and Valuable Editions of the 
Greek and Latin Classics (1811). 


Lyttelton, invoked by Thomson in 


| his Spring, was George, Lord Lyttelton, 


“George was lynched, as he deserved."—Emer- | 


ot Hagley, Worcestershire, who procured 
from the Prince of Wales a pension of 
£100 a year for the poet. Lucinda was 
Lucy Fortescue, daughter of Hugh For- 
tescue, of Devonshire, 


M. This letter represents the wavy 
appearance of water, and is called in 
Hebrew mem (water). 


M. Every word in the Materia more 
Magistralis begins with the letter τη. 
(See C and P.) 


M (initial of manslaughter). The 
brand of a person convicted of that 
offence, and admitted to the benefit of 
clergy. It was burnt on the brawn of 
the left thumb. 


M in numerals is the initial of mille, 
a thousand. 


“Whosoever prayeth for the soul of John 
Gower he shall, so oft as he so doth, havea M and 
a D days of pardon.’—Gower's Tablet. 


M, to represent the human face. Add 
two dots for the eyes, thus, "Μ᾽, These 


M 


dots being equal to O's, we get OMO 
(homo) Latin tor man. 
“Who reads the name, 
For man upon his forehead, there the M 
Had traced most plainly.” 
Dante: Purgatory, xxiii. 
M. The five M’s: Mansa, Matsya, 

Madya, Maithuna, and Mudra (flesh, 
fish, wine, women, and gesticulation). 
The five forms of Hindu asceticism. 


M’, i.e. Mac. A Gaelic prefix mean- 
ing son, (Gothic, iagus, ἃ son; 
Sanskrit, wah, to grow; Welsh, magi, 
to breed.) The Welsh ap is Mace 
changed to Map, and contracted into ‘ap 
or ’p, as Apadam (‘4p Idan), Prichard 
(LP Richard). 


M or N in the Catechism. M is a 
coniraction of NN (names); N is for 


name. The respondent is required to 
give his names if he has more than one, 
or his name if only one. 

In the marriage service, M stands for 
mas (the man) or mari‘tus (the bride- 
groom), and N for vupla (the bride). 

There are some who think M stands 
for Mary, the patron saint of girls, and 
N for Nicholas, the patron saint of boys. 


M. B. Waistcoat. A clerical cassock 
waistcoat was so called (about 1830) 
when first introduced by the High 
Church party. M. B. means ‘ mark of 
the beast.” 

“He smiled at the folly which sticmatiséd an 


M.B. ‘waistcoat. “—Mrs. Oliphant: Phebe Juno, 
11. 3. : 


M.D. “The first woman that obtained 
this degree was Elizabeth Blackwell, of 
the United States (1849). 


M.P. Member of Parliament, but in 
s'ang language Member of the Police. 


MS., manuscript ; MSS., manuscripts; 
generally applied to literary works in 
penmanship. (Latin manuseriptin, that 
which is written by the hand.) 


Mab. The “ fairies’ midwife ’’—i.c. 
employed by the fairies as midwife of 
dreams (to deliver man’s brain of 
dreams). Thus when Romeo says, ‘‘ I 
dreamed a dream to-night,’’ Mercutio 
replies, ‘‘Oh, then, I see Queen Mab hath 
been with you.”? Sir Walter Scott fol- 
lows in the same track: ‘ [have a friend 
who is peculiarly favoured with the 
visits of Queen Mab,’’? meaning with 
dreams (The Antiquary). When Mab 
is called ‘‘queen,’’ it does not mean 
sovereign, for Titan'ia was Oberon’s 
wife, but simply female ; both midwives 
and monthly nurses were anciently called 
queens or queans. Qué or ewén in 


MacGregor 


Saxon means neither more nor less than 
woman ; so ** elf-queen,’’ and the Danish 
ellequinde, mean female elf, and not 
‘‘queen of the elves.” Excellent de- 
scriptions of ‘* Mistress Mab” are given 
by Shakespeare (Romeo and Juliet, i. 4), 
by Ben Jonson, by Herrick, and by Dray- 
ton in Vymphidea, (Mab,Welsh, a baby.) 


MacAlpin. It is said that the founder 
of this famous family was named Half- 
penny, and lived in Dublin in the 18th 
century. Having prospered in business, 
he called himself Mr. Halpen. The 
family, still prospering, dropped the H, 
and added Mae (son of), making Mac 
Alpen: and Kenny MacAlpen called 
himself Kenneth MacAlpin, the “ de- 
scendant of a hundred kings.’’ True or 
not, the metamorphose is ingenious, 


MacFarlane's Geese, The proverb 
is that ‘‘ MacFarlane's geese like their 
play better than their meat.’’ The wild 
geese of Inch-Tavoe (Loch Lomond) used 
to be called MacFarlane’s Geese because 
the MacFarlanes had a house and garden 
on the island. It is said that these geese 
never returned after the extinction of 
that house.” One day James VI. visited 
the chieftain, and was highly amused by 
the gambols of the geese, but the one 
served at table was so tongh that the 
king exclaimed, ‘‘ MacFarlane’s geese 
like their play better than their meat.” 


MacFleck’noe in Dryden’s famous 
satire, is Thomas Shadwell, poet-laure- 
ate, whose immortality rests on the not 
very complimentary line, ‘‘ Shadwell 
never deviates into seuse.”’ (1640-1692.) 

N.B. Flecknoe was an Irish Roman 
Catholic priest, doggerel sonneteer, and 
playwright. Shadwell, according to 
Dryden, was his double. 

“ The rest to some slight meaning make pretence, 

But Shadwell never deviates into sense.” 

Dryden: MacFleckaoe, 19, τὸς 

MacGirdie’s Mare, used by degrees 
to eat less and less, but just as he had 
reduced her to a straw a day the poor 
beast died. This isan old Greek joke, 
which is well known to schoolboys who 
have been taught the Analecta Minora. 
(See Waverley, p. 54.) 

MacGregor. The motto of the 
MacGregors is, ‘ E’en do and spair 
nocht,”’ said to have been given them in 
the twelfth century by the king of Scot- 
land. While the king was hunting he 
was attacked by a wild boar, when Sir 
Malcolm requested permission to encoun- 
ter the creature. ‘‘ E’en do,’’ said the 
king, “ud spair nocht.”” Whereupon 


MacIntyre 


the strong baronet tore up an oak sap- 
ling and despatched the enraged animal. 
For this defence the king gave Sir Mal- 
colm permission to use the said motto, 
and, in place of a Scotch fir, to adopt 
for crest an oal:-tree eradicate, proper. 

“ Another motto of the MacGregors 
is—‘‘ Sriogal mo dhream.”’ 

Rob Roy Maetrregor or Robert Cump- 
bell, the outlaw. A Highland freebooter, 
the hero of Sir Walter Scott's Jto) Roy. 
His wife’s name is Helen, and their 
eldest son Hamish. Inthe Zio Drovers 
MacGregor or MacCombich (Robin Oig) 
is a Highland drover. 

MacIntyre (Captain Hector). Brother 
of Maria MacIntyre, the antiquary’s 
niece, in Sir Walter Scott’s Antiquary. 


Maclvor (/vrgus). Chief of Glen- 
naquoich, and brother of Flora MacIvor, 
the heroine of Waverley, by Sir W. Scott. 


MacPherson. During the reign of 
David I. of Scotland, a younger brother 
of the chief of the powerful clan Chattan 
espoused the clerical life, and in due 
time became abbot of Kingussie. His 
elder brother died childless, and the 
chieftainship devolved on the abbot. 
He procured the needful dispensation 


787 


Macaronic Latin 


author, but others think the word is the 
Arabic makabir, a cemetery. The best 
illustrations are those by Minden, Lu- 
cerne, Lubeck, Dresden, and Basle. 
Holbein’s painting is very celebrated. 
“ What are these paintings on the wall around 
us? Thedance macaher.” 
Longfellow : The Golden Legend. 
Macad’amise (+ syl.). Using broken 
stones for road metal, and making the 
road convex instead of concave τὰ method 


/ introduced by Sir John L. Macadam 


from the Pope, married the daughter of | 


the thane of Calder, and a swarm of 
little “" Kingussies’’ was the result. The 
good people of Inverness-shire called 
them the Mac-phersons, i.c. the sons of 
the parson. 

MacTab, Zhe Honourable Miss Lu- 
eretia MacTab. A poor Scotch relative 
of Emily Worthington ‘on her deceased 
mother’s side, and of the noble blood of 
the MacTabs.’’ She lived on the Wor- 
thingtons, always snubbing them for not 
appreciating the honour of such a noble 
hanger-on, and always committing the 
most ludicrous mistakes from her extra- 
vagant vanity and family pride. ((eorge 
Colman: The Poor Gentleman.) 

MacTurk (Captain Mungo or Hector). 
‘‘ The man of peace’? at the Spa Hotel, 
and one of the managing committee. 
(Six Walter Scott: St. Ronan’s Well.) 
‘Macaber. The dance macaber. The 
Dance of the dead (7.v.) (French, dance 
macabre.) A dance over which Death 
presides, supposed to be executed by the 
dead of all ages and conditions. It is an 
allegory of the mortality of man, and 
was a favourite subject of artists and 
poets between the 13th and 15th centu- 
ries. It was originally written in German, 
then in Latin, and then in French. Some 
think Macaber was the name of the 


(1756-1836). 

Macaire (2 syl.). A favourite name 
in French plays, insomuch that Robert 
Macaire is sometimes used generically for 
a Frenchman. It is said that Aubrey 
de Montdidier was murdered in the forest 
of Bondy in 1371. His dog conceived 
such a hatred against Richard Maeaire 
that suspicion was aroused, and it was 
resolved to pit the man and dog together. 
The result was fatal to the man, who 
died confessing his guilt. The story is 
found in a chanson de geste of the 12th 
certutry, called La Reine Sibile, 


Mac’amut. Sultan of Cambaya, who 
lived upon poison, with which he was so 
saturated that his breath or touch carried 
instant death. (Purchas.) 


Macare (french). The impersona- 
tion of good temper, in Voltaire’s alle- 
gory of Theléme and Macare. 


Macaro’ni. A coxcomb (Italian, 1» 
maccherone). The word is derived from 
the Macaroni Club, instituted by a set of 
Hashy men who had travelled in Italy, 
and introduced Italian maccheroni at 
Almack’s subscription table. The Maca- 
ronies were the most exquisite fops that 
ever disgraced the name of man : vicious, 
insolent, fond of gambling, drinking, and 
duelling, they were (about 1773) the 
curse of Vauxhall Gardens. 


“We are indebted to the Macaronies for only 
two things: the one js the introduction of that 
excellent dish... macaroni, and the other is 
the invention of that useful slang word ‘ bore’ 
(boar), Which originaHy meant any opponent of 
dandyism.’—Cassell’s Magazine : London Legends. 


+ An American regiment raised in 


| Maryland during the War of Indepen- 


dence, was called The Macaronies trom 
its showy uniform. 

Macaron'ic Latin. Dog Latin, or 
modern words with Latin endings. The 
law pleadings of G. Steevens, as Daniel 
v. Dishelout and Bullwn v. Boatum, are 
excellent examples. (See Doe Latty.) 

~ Macaron'ic Latin is a mixture of 
Latin and some modern language. In 
Italy jmacheroni is a mixture of coarse 
meal, eggs, and cheese, 


Macaronic Verse 788 


Macaro’nic Verse. Verses in which 
foreign words are ludicrously distorted 
and jumbled together, as in Porson’s 
lines on the threatened invasion of Eng- 
land by Napoleon. (Lingo drawn for the 
Militia.) So called by Teofilo Folengo, 
a Mantuan monk of noble family, who 
published a book entitled Liber Maca- 
ronico'rum, a poetical rhapsody made 
up of words of different languages, and 
treating of ‘pleasant matters’? in a 
comical style (1520). Folengo is gene- 
rally called Merlinus Coccaius, or Mer- 
lino Coccajo. (See preceding.) The 
Vigonce of Tossa was published in 1494, 
The following Latin verse is an hexa- 
meter ; 


“Trumpeter unus erat qui 

habebat.” 

τ A. Cunningham published in 1801 a Delectus 
macaronicorum carminum, a history of macaronic 
poetry. 

Cane carmen SIXPENCE, pera plena rye, 

De multis atris avibus coctis In a pie: 

Simul hee apert’est, cantat omnis grex, 
Nonne permirabile, quod vidit ille rex? 
Dimidium rex esus, misit ad reginam 

Quod reliquit illa, sending back catinum. 

Rex fuit in vrario, multo nummo tumens ; 

In culina Domina, bread and mel consumens ; 
Ancell’ in horticulo, banging out the clothes, 
Quum descendens cornix rapuit her nee 


Macbeth (Shakespeare). The story is 
taken from Holinshed, who copied it 
from the History of Scotland, by Hector 
Boece or Boyce, in seventeen volumes 
(1527). The history, written in Latin, 
was translated by John Bellenden (1631- 
1535). 

‘. “ History states that Macbeth slew Duncan at 
Bothgowan, near Elgin, in 1039, and not, a8 Shake- 
speare says, at his castle of Inverness ; the attack 
was made hecatuuse Duncan bad usurped the throne, 
to which Macheth bad the better claim. As a 


king Macheth proved a very just and equitable 
prince, but the partisans of Malcaim got bead, and 
succeeded in deposing Macheth, who was slain in 
1056, at Lumphlanan. He was thane of Cromarty 
{Glamis}, and afterwards of Moray [Cawdor].— 
Lardner: Cabinet Cyclopedia. 


Lady Macbeth. The wife of Macbeth. 
Ambition is her sin, and to gain the 
object of her ambition she hesitates at 
nothing. Her masterful mind sways the 
weaker Macbeth to ‘the mood of what 
she liked or loathed.’’ She is a Mede’a, 
or Catherine de’ Medici, or Cesar 
Bor’gia in female form. (Shakespeare: 
Macbeth.) 


πὴ The real name of Lady Macheth was Graoch, 
and instead of heing urged to the murder of Dun- 
can through ambition, she was goaded by deadly 
injuries. She was, in fact, the granddaughter of 
Kenneth IV., killed in 1003, fighting against Mal- 
es IJ.— Lardner: Cabinet Cyclopedia, vol. i. 17, 
etc. 

_Macbriar (Zphiraim). Anenthusias- 
tic preacher in Sir Walter Scott’s Old 
Mortality. 

This was the young preacher Maccaul 
so hideously tortured in the reign of 


coatum scarlet 


Mackintosh 


Charles II. He died ‘‘in a rapture.’’ 
(See Cassell’s History of England, 
Charles IT., vol. iii. p. 422.) 


Maccabee'us. The Hammerer. <A 
surname given to Judas Asmonzus; 
similar to ‘‘ Martel,’’ the name given to 
Charles, son of Pepin Heristel, who beat 
down the Saracens as with a sledge- 
hammer. Some think the name is a 
notarica or acrostic: Mi Camokah Baelim 
Jehovah (Who is like to thee among the 

ods, O Lord?), (Exodusxv, 11.) (See 
VOTARICA.) 


Macdonald. Lord Macdonald's breed. 
Parasites. Lord Macdonald (son of the 
Lord of the Isles) once made a raid on 
the mainland. He and his followers, 
with other plunder, fell on the clothes of 
the enemy, and stripping off their own 
rags, donned the smartest and best they 
could lay hands on, with the result of 
being overrun with parasites. 


Macduff. The thane of Fife. A 
Scotch nobleman whose castle of Kenno- 
way was surprised by Macbeth, and his 
wife and babes ‘‘ savagely slaughtered.” 
Macduff vowed vengeance and joined 
the army of Siward, to dethrone the 
tyrant. On reaching the royal castle of 
Dunsinane, they fought, and Macbeth 
wasslain. (Shakespeare : Macbeth.) 


“ἢ History states that Machetb was defeated at 
Dunsinane, but escaped from the battle and was 
slain at Lumphanan in 1056.—Lardner: Cubinet 


Cyclopedia, i. p. 17, ete. 

Macheath (Captain). <A highway- 
man, hero of The Beggars Opera, by 
Gay. A fine, gay, bold-faced ruffian, 
game to the very last. 


Mac‘hiavelli. Zhe Inperial Machia- 
velli. Tiberius, the Roman emperor. 
(B.c. 42 to A.D. 37.) 

His political axiom was—‘‘He who 
knows not how to dissemble knows not 
how to reign.’’ It was also the axiom 
of Louis XI. of France. 


Machiavellism. Political cunning 
and overreaching by diplomacy, accord- 
ing to the pernicious political principles 
of Niccolo del Machiavelli, of Florence, 
set forth in his work called The Prince. 
The general scope of this book is to show 
that rulers may resort to any treachery 
and artifice to uphold their arbitrary 
power, and whatever dishonourable acts 
princes may indulge in are fully set off 
by the insubordination of their subjects. 
(1469-1527. ) 


Mackintosh or Macintosh. Cloth 
waterproofed with caoutchouc, patented 
by Mr. Macintosh, 


Macklin 


Macklin. The real name of this 
great actor was Charles M‘Laughlin, 
but he changed it on coming to England. 
(1690-1797.) 


Macmill’anites (4 syl.). A religious 
sect of Scotland, who succeeded the 
Covenanters ; so named from John Mac- 
millan, their leader, They called them- 
selves the ‘‘ Reformed Presbytery.” 


Macsyce’ophant (Siv Pertinar). In 
The Man of the World, by Charles 
Macklin, Sir Pertinax ‘‘ bowed, and 
bowed, and bowed,” and cringed, and 
fawned, to obtain the object of his 
ambition. 


Mace. Originally a club armed with 
iron, and used in war. Both sword and 
mace are ensigns of dignity, suited to 
the times when men went about in 
armour, and sovereigns needed cham- 
pions to vindicate their rights, 


Macedon is not Worthy of Thee, 
is what Philip said to his son Alexander, 
after his achievement with the horse 
Buceph’alos, which he subdued to his 
will, though only eighteen years of age, 

Edward III., after the battle of Crecy, 
in which the Black Prince behaved very 
valiantly, exclaimed, ‘‘ My brave boy, 
go on as you have begun, and you will 
be worthy of England’s crown.”’ 


Macedo’nian (716). Julius Polyx- 
nus, author of Stratage’mata, in the 
second century. 


Macedonian Madman (7/i). 
MapMavn.) 


Macedo’nians. A religious sect, so 
named from Macedo’nius, Patriarch of 
Constantinople, in the fourth century. 
They denied the divinity of the Holy 
Ghost, and that the essence of the Son 
is the same in kind with that of the 
Father. 


Macedon’icus. 
conqueror of Perseus. (230-160 B.c.) 


Mackerel Sky (4). A sky spotted 
like a mackerel. (Mackerel from the 
Latin, macula, a spot whence the French 
maquereau, German mackrele, Welsh 
macrell, etc.) 


Macon. Mahomet, Mahoun, or Ma- 
hound. 


“Praised (quoth he) be Macon whom we serve.” 
Fuirfax : Tasso, xii. 10. 


(See 


fEmil'ius Paulus, 


Macon. A poetical and romance name 
of Mecca, the birthplace of Mahomet. 


Mac’reons. The island of the Mac- 
reons. Great Britain. The word is 


789 


Madge 


Greek, and means long-lived. Rabelais 
describes the persecutions of the re- 
formers as a terrible storm at sea, in 
which Pantag’ruel and his fleet were 
tempest-tossed, but contrived to enter 
one of the harbours of Great Britain, an 
island called ‘‘ Long life,’? because no 
one was put to death there for his re- 
ligious opinions. This island was full 
of antique ruins, relics of decayed popery 
and ancient superstitions. 


Mac'rocosm (Greek, the great world), 
in opposition to the microcosm (the Jitt/e 
world), The ancients looked upon the 
universe a3 a living creature, and the 
followers of Paracelsus considered man 
a miniature representation of the uni- 
verse. The one was termed the Macro- 
cosm, the other the Microcosm (q.v.). 


Mad as a March Hare. (Sve Hane.) 
The French say, ‘‘ I/ est fow comme un 
jeune chien.”’ 


Mad Cavalier (7c). Prince Rupert, 
noted for his rash courage and impa- 
tience of control. (1619-1682.) 


Mad Parliament (76). The Parlia- 
ment which assembled at Oxford in 
1258, and_ broke out intq open rebellion 
against Henry III. The king was de- 
clared deposed, and the government 
was vested in the hands of twenty-four 
councillors, with Simon de Montfort at 
their head. 


Mad Poet (7/iz). Nathaniel Lee, who 
was confined for four years in Bedlam. 
(1657-1690.) 

Mad asa Hatter. By some said to 
be a corruption of ‘‘Mad as an atter”’ 
(adder) ; but evidence is wanting. The 
word adder is atter in Saxon, nattey in 
German. 


Madame. So the wife of Philippe, 
Due d’Orléans was styled in the reign 
of Louis XIV.; other ladies were only 
Madame This or That. 

Madame la Duchesse. Wife of Henri- 
Jules de Bourbon, eldest son of Prince 
de Condé. 

Madame la Princesse. Wife of the 
Prince de Condé, and natural daughter 
of Louis XIV. (See MonstEvR.) 


Mademoiselle (4 syl.). The daughter 
of Philippe, Duc de Chartres, grandson 
of Philippe, Duc d’Orléans, brother of 
Louis XIV. 

La Grande Mademoiselle. The Duchesse 
de Montpensier, cousin to Louis XIV., 
and daughter of Gaston, Duc d’ Orléans, 


Madge. An owl. 


Madge Wildfire 


790 


Magellan 


Madge Wildfire. The nickname of 
Margaret Murdochson, a beautiful but 
giddy girl, whose brain was crazed by 
seduction and the murder of her infant. 
(Sir Walter Scott : Heart of Midlothian.) 


Madman. Macedonia’s madman. 
Alexander the Great. (8.c. 356, 336- 
323.) 


The brilliant madman or Madman of 
the North. Charles XII. of Sweden. 
(1682, 1697-1718.) 


“ Heroes are much the same, the point’s agreed, 
From Macedonia’s madman to the Swede 
(Charles XII.).’ Pope: Essay on Man, iv. 


Madness. In Perthshire there are 
several wells and springs dedicated to 
St. Fillan, which are still places of pil- 
grimage. These wells are held to be 
efficacious in cases of madness. Even 
recently lunatics have been bound to the 
holy stone at night, under the expecta- 
tion that St. Fillan would release them 
before dawn, and send them home in 
their right minds. 


Madoc. The youngest son of Owain 
Gwyneth, King ot North Wales, who 
died in 1169. According to tradition he 
sailed away to America, and established 
a colony on the southern branches of the 
Missouri. About the same time the 
Az'tecas forsook Aztlan, under the guid- 
ance of Yuhid’thiton, and founded the 
empire called Mexico, in honour of 
Mexitli, their tutelary god. Southey 
has a poem in two parts called Madoc, 
in which these two events are made to 
harmonise with each other. 


Madonna. (Italian, my /udy.) Spe- 
cially applied to representations of the 
Virgin Mary. 

Ma’dor (Sir). The Scotch knight 
slain in single combat by Sir Launcelot 
of the Lake, who volunteered to defend 
the innocence of Queen Guinever. 


Madras System of Education. A 
system of mutual instruction, introduced 
by Dr. Andrew Bell into the institution 
at Madras for the education of the 
orphan children_of the European mili- 
tary. Bell lived 1753-1832. 


Mean’der. To wind like the river 
Meander, in Phrygia. The ‘‘ Greek 
pattern ’’ of embroidery is so called. 


Mece’nas. A patron of letters; so 
called from C, Cilnius Mece’nas, a 
Roman statesman in the reign of Augus- 
tus, who kept open house for all men of 
letters, and was the special friend and 
patron of Horace and Virgil. Nicholas 
Rowe so called the Earl of Halifax on 


his installation to the Order of the 
Garter (1714). 

The last English Maecenas. Samuel 
Rogers, poet and banker, (1763-18455.) 


Maelstrom (Norwegian, whirling 
stream). There are about fifty mael- 
stroms off the coast of Norway, but the 
one Englishmen delight to tremble at 
is at the foot of the Lofo’ten Islands, 
between the islands of Moskenés and 
Mosken, where the water is pushed and 
jostled a good deal, and when the wind 
and tide are contrary it is not safe for 
small boats to venture near. 

It was anciently thought that the 
Maelstr6m was a subterranean abyss, 
penetrating the globe, and communicat- 
ing with the Gulf of Bothnia. 


Mezeon'ides (4 syl.) or Meonian 
Poet. Homer, either because he was 
the son of Mzeon, or because he was 
born in Meon'ia (Asia Minor). (See 
HOMER.) 


Meeviad. A merciless satire by Gif- 
ford on the Della Cruscan school of 
poetry. Published 1796. The word is in 
Virgil’s Eelogue, iii. 99. (See BaviaD.) 

Mag. JVhatamag you are! jabberer, 
hence to chatter like a magpie. Mag isa 
contraction of magpie. The French have 
a famous word, ‘‘ caquet-bon-bee,.”’ We 
call a prating man or woman “a mag.”’ 
(See MAGPIE.) 

Not a mag to bless myself with—not a 
halfpenny. 


Mag’a. Blachwwood’s Magazine. <A 
mere contraction of the word maga-zine. 


Magalo’na. (See MAGUELONE.) 


Magazine (3syl.). A place for stores; 
(Arabic, makhzan, gazana, a place where 
articles are preserved. ) 


Mag’dalene (3 syl.). An asylum for 
the reclaiming of prostitutes; so called 
from Mary Magdalene or Mary of Mag’- 
dala, ‘‘out of whom Jesus cast seven 
devils.’’ A great profligate till she met 
with the Lord and Saviour. 


Mag‘deburg Centuries. The first 
great work of Protestant divines on the 
history of the Christian Church. It was 
begun at Magdeburg by Matthias Fla- 
cius, in 1552; and, as each century 
occupies a volume, the thirteen volumes 
complete the history to 1300. 


Magellan. Straits of Magellan. So 
called after Magellan or Magalhaens, 
the Portuguese navigator, who discovered 
them in 1520, 


Magenta 791 


Magician 


Magen'ta. A brilliant red colour 
derived from coal-tar, named in com- 
memoration of the battle of Magenta, 
which was fought in 1859. 


Maggot, Maggoty. Whimsical, full 
of whims and fancies. Fancy tunes 
used to be called inaggots, hence we have 
‘Barker's maggots,”’ ‘‘Cary’s maggots,” 


“‘Draper’s maggots,’ ete. (Dancing 
Master, 1721.) 
When the maggot bites. When the 


fancy takes us. Swift tells us that it 
was the opinion of certain virtuosi that 
the brain is filled with little worms or 
maggots, and that thought is produced 
by these worms biting the nerves. ‘‘If 
the bite is hexagonal it produces poetry ; 
if circular, eloquence; if conical, politics, 
ete. (Mechanical Operation of the Spirit.) 

Instead of maggots the Scotch say, 
‘*His head is full of bees ;’’ the French, 
“Tl a des vats dans la téte;’’ and in 
Holland, ‘‘ He hasa mouse’s nest in his 
head.” (See BEE.) 


Ma’gi (The), according to one tra- 
dition, were Mel’chior, Gaspar, and 
Balthazar, three kings of the East. The 
first offered gold, the emblem of royalty, 
to the infant Jesus; the second, frank- 
incense, in token of divinity ; and the 
third, my77rh, in prophetic allusion to the 
persecution unto death which awaited 
the ‘‘ Man of Sorrows.”’ 

MELCHIOR means “king of light.” 

GASPAR, cr CASPAR, means “the white one.” 

BALTHAZAR means “the lord of treasures.” 

(Klopstock, in his Messiah, book v., gives these 
five names: Hadad, Selima, Zimri, Beled, and 
Sunith.) 

Magi, in Camoens’ Lusiad, means 
the Indian ‘‘ Brahmins.’? Ammia’nus 
Marcelli’nus says that the Persian magi 
derived their knowledge from the Brah- 
mins of India (i. 23); and Aria’nus ex- 
pressly calls the Brahmins ‘*‘ magi’”’ (i.7.). 


Magic Garters. Made of the strips 
of a young hare’s skin saturated with 
motherwort. Those who wear these 
garters excel in speed. 

“ Were it not for my magic garters... 

T should not continue the business long.” 
Lonafellow: The Golden Legend. 

Magic Rings. This superstition 
arose from the belief that magicians had 
the power of imprisoning demons in 
rings. The power was supposed to 
prevail in Asia, and subsequently in 
Salamanca, Tolédo, and Italy. 

< Magic circles (like magic squares) 
are mathematical puzzles. 

Corcud’s ring. This magic ring was 
composed of six metals, and insured the 
Wearer success in any undertaking in 


which he chose to embark. (Chinese 
Tales ; Corcud and his Four Sons.) 

Dame Lidnés’s ring, given by her to 
Sir Gareth during a tournament. It 
insured the wearer from losing blood 
when wounded. 


“*This ring.’ said Dame Lionés, ‘increaseth my 
beauty ... That which is green it turns red, and 
that whichis red it turns green. That which 15 
bine it turns white, and that which is white it 
turns blue. Whoever beareth this ring can 
never lose blood, however wounded. "—distory of 
Prince Arthur, i. 146. 


Fairy ving (A). Whoever lives in a 
house built over a fairy ring will won- 
drously prosper in everything. (Athen- 
ian Ovacle, i. 307.) 

Gyges’ ring. (See GYGES.) 

Luned’s ring rendered the wearer in- 
visible. Luned or Lynet gave the ring 
to Owain, one of King Arthur’s knights. 


“Take this ring,and put it on thy finger, with 
the stone inside thy hand, and close thy hand 
upon it. As long as thou concealest the stone, 
the stone will conceal thee.’— The Mabinogion 
(Lady of the Fountain). 


Reynard’s ving. The ring which 
Reynard pretended he had sent to King 
Lion. It had three gems: one 7d, 
which gave light in darkness; one 
white, which cured all blains and 
sprains ; and one green, which would 
guard the wearer from all ills, both in 
peace and war. (Henrik von Alkmaar : 
Reynard the Fox.) 

The steel ving, made by Seidel-Beckit. 
It enabled the wearer to read the secrets 
of another’s heart. (Oriental Tales ; 
The Four Talismans.) 

The talking ving given by Tartaro, the 
Basque Cyclops, to a girl whom he 
wished to marry. Immediately she put 
it on, it kept incessantly saying ‘‘ You 
there, and 1 here.’’ In order to get rid 
of the nuisance, the girl cut off her 
finger, and threw both finger and ring 
intoa pond. (Lasque legends.) 

~ This tale appears in Campbell’s 
Popular Tales of the West Highlands (i. 
toiii.), and in Grimm’s Tales (The Robber 
and his Sons). 


Magic Wand. 

In Jerusalem Delivered the Hermit 
gives Charles the Dane and Ubaldo a 
wand which, being shaken, infused 
terror into all who saw it. 

In the Fuérie Queene, the palmer who 
accompanies Sir Guyon has a staff of 
like virtue, made of the same wood as 
Mercury’s caduceus. 


Magician. The Great Magician or 
Wizard of the North. Professor Wilson 
calls Sir Walter Scott the Great Magi- 
cian, from the wonderful fascination of 
his writings. 


Magliabechi 


Magician of the North. The title as- 
sumed by Johann Georg Hamann, of 
Prussia (1730-1788). 

Magliabechi. The greatest book- 
worm that ever lived. He never forgot 
what he had once read, and could even 
turn at once to the exact page of any 
reference. He was the librarian of the 
Great Duke Cosmo III. (1633-1714). 


Magna Charta. The (reat Charter 
of English liberty extorted from King 
John, 1215; called by Spelman— 

“Augustis’simum Anglica’rum, liberta tum 
diplo’ma et sacra an’chora,” 

Magnalia Christi. Cotton Mathers’s 
book, mentioned in Longfellow’s JJay- 
flower. 

Magnanimous (716). 

Alfonso V. of Aragon (1985, 1416-58). 

Chosroés or Khosru, twenty-first of 
the Sassan’idés, surnamed Noushir' wan 
(the Magnanimous) (531-579). 

Magna’no. One of the leaders of 
the rabble that attacked Hudibras at a 
bear-baiting. The character is a satire 
on Simeon Wait, a tinker and Indepen- 
dent preacher. (/Hudibras, pt.i. 2.) He 
calls Cromwell the ‘‘ archangel who did 
battle with the devil.”’ 


Magnet. The loadstone; so called 
from Magne'sia, in Lydia, where the ore 
was said to abound, The Greeks called 
it magnes. Milton uses the adjective 
for the substantive in the line “ As the 
magnetic hardest iron draws.”’ 


Magnet’ic Mountain. A mountain 
which drew out all the nails of any 
ship that approached within its magnetic 
influence. The ship in which Prince 
Agib sailed fell to pieces when wind- 
driven towards it. (Arabian Nights ; 
The Third Calendar.) 


Magneuse (French). An anonyma 
or fille de joie ; so called from the nun- 
nery founded at Rheims in 1654, by 
Jeanne Canart, daughter of Nicolas 
Colbert, seigneur de Magneux. ‘The 
word is “sometimes jocosely perverted 
into Magni-magno. 


Magnificat. To sing the Magnificat 
at matins.- To do things at the wrong 
time, or out of place. The Magnificat 
does not belong to the morning service, 
but to vespers. The Magnificat is Luke 
i, 46-55 in Latin. 


Magnificent (7/e). 


Khosru or Chosroés I. of Persia (*, 
531-579). The golden period of Persian 
history was 450-628, 


792 


Magpie 


Lorenzo de Medici (1448-1492). 

Robert, Duc de Normandie, also called 
Le Diable (*, 1028-1035). 

Soliman I., greatest of the Turkish 
sultans (1493, 1520-1566). 


Magnifique... Guerre. ‘(est 
magnifique, mais ce n'est pas la guerre”? 
Admirable, but not according to rule. 
The comment of Marshal Canrobert 
on the charge of the Light Brigade at 
Balaclava. 

“It is because the clergy, as a class, are ani- 
mated by a high ideal... that they, as a class 
are incomparably better than they need be... 
Cest magnifique, mais ce west pas la guerre.’ 
Nineteenth Ceniury, April, 1866, 

Magnolia. A flower so called from 
Pierre Magnol, professor of medicine at 
Montpelier, (1638-1715.) 


Magnum Opus. Chief or most im- 
portant of a person’s works. A literary 
man says of his most renowned book it 
is his magnwm opus. 


Magnum of Port (4), or other wine, 
a double bottle. 


Magnus Apollo (J/7), or Meus 
Magnus Apollo, My leader, authority, 
and oracle. 


Mago the Carthaginian, says Aris- 
totle, crossed the Great Desert twice 
without having anything to drink. 


Magopho'nia. A festival observed 
by the Persians to commemorate the 
massacre of the Magi. Smerdis usurped 
the throne on the death of Camby’ses ; 
but seven Persians, conspiring together, 
slew Smerdis and his brother; where- 
upon the people put all the Magi to the 
sword, and elected Darius, son of Hys- 
taspes, to the throne. (Greek, magos- 
phonos, the magi-slaughter.) 


Magot (/rench). Money, or rather 
a mass of secreted money ; a corruption 
of imago, the ‘‘image and superscrip- 
tion ’’ of coined money. 

“La ilvola de méme, revint ἃ Paris avec un bon 
magot.”—La Gazette Noire, 1784, p. 270. 

Magpie. A contraction of magot- 
pie, or mag’ata-pie. “ Mag ᾽ is generally 
thought to be a contraction of Margaret ; 
thus we have Robin red-breast, Tom-tit, 
Philip—i.e. a sparrow, etc. 
© Angurs and understood relations have 

(By magotpies, and choughs, and rooks) brought 
orth 
The secret’st man of blood.” ἂν 
Shakespeare : Macbeth, iii. 4. 
Magpie. Here is an old Scotch rhyme: 


τ One's sorrow, two’s mirth, 
Three's a wedding, fow’s a birth, 
Five’s a christening, six a dearth, 
Seven’s heaven, eight is hell, 
And nine’s the devil his ane sel’.” 


Magricio 


- 


Magricio. The champion of Isabella 
of Portugal, who refused to do homage 
to France. The brave champion van- 
quished the French chevalier, and thus 
vindicated the liberty of his country. 


Mag‘uelo‘ne or Magialo’na (‘he 
fair). Heroine of the romance called 
The History of the Fair Magalona, 
Daughter of the King of Naples, etc. 
Originally written in French. Cervantés 
alludes to itin Don Quixote. (See PETER 
OF PROVENCE.) 


Magus. (Se Stmon.) 


Mah-abade’an Dynasty (Zhe). The 
first dynasty of Persian mythological 
history. Mah Abad (the great Abad) and 
his wife were the only persons left on the 
earth after the great cycle, and from 
them the world was peopled. Azer 
Abad, the fourteenth and last of this 
dynasty, left the earth because ‘‘ all flesh 
had corrupted itself,’ and a period of 
anarchy ensued. 


Mahabharata. One of the two 
great epic poems of ancient India. Its 
story is the contests between descen- 
dants of Kuru and Pandu. (See Kurv.) 


Mahadi or Haken. The Kalif who 
reigned about 400 years after Mahomet. 
In one pilgrimage to Mecca he expended 
six million gold dinars. 


Mahatmas. Initiates who have 
proved their courage and purity by 
passing through sundry tests and trials. 
It is a Hindu word applied to certain 
Buddhists. They are also called ‘‘ Mas- 
ters.’’ According to Theosophists, man 
has a physical, an intellectual, and a 
spiritual nature, and a Mahatma is a 
person who has reached perfection in 
each of these three natures, As_ his 
knowledge is perfect, he can produce 
effects which, to the less learned, appear 
miraculous. Thus, before the telegraph 
and telephone were invented it would 
have appeared miraculous to possess such 
powers; no supernatural power, how- 
ever, is required, but only a more ex- 
tensive knowledge. 

“Mahatma is a well-known Sanskrit word ap- 
plied to men wh» have retired from the world, 
who, by means of a long ascetic discipline, have 
subdued the passions of the flesh,and gained a 
reputation for sanctity and knowledge. That 
these men are able to perform most startling 
feats. and to suffer the most terrible tortures, is 
perfectly true."—Max Muller; Nineteenth Century, 
May, 1893, p. 775. 

Mahdi (716). The supreme pontiff 
of the Shiites (2 syl.) Only twelve of 
these imaums have really appeared—viz. 
Ali, Hassan, Hosein, and the nine lineal 


Mahomet 


descendants of Hosein. Mohammed, the 
last Mahdi, we are told, is not really 
dead, but sleeps in a cavern near Bagdad, 
and will return to life in the fulness of 
time to overthrow Dejal (anti-Christ). 


The Mahdi which has of late been disturbing 
Egypt is hated by the Persians, who are Sunnites 
(2 syl.); but even the Turks and Persians are 
looking out fora Mahdi who will stamp out the 
“ infidels.” 

Mahmoud of Ghizni, the conqueror 
of India in the 11th century, kept 400 
greyhounds and bloodhounds, each of 
which wore a jewelled collar taken from 
the necks of captive sultanas. 


Mahmut. The name of the famous 
Turkish spy (¢.v.). 


Mahomet or Mohammed, according 
to Deutsch, means the Predicted Messiah. 
(Hag. ii. 7.) Itis the titular name taken 
by Halabi, founder of Islam. (570-632.) 

Angel of. When Mahomet was trans- 
ported to heaven, he says: ‘‘I saw there 
an angel, the most gigantic of all created 
beings. It had 70,000 heads, each had 
70,000 faces, each face had 70,000 mouths, 
each mouth had 70,000 tongues, and each 
tongue spoke 70,000 languages ; all were 
employed in singing God’s praises.”’ 

*’ This would make more than 31,000 trillion 
languages, and nearly five billion mouths, 

Banner of. Sanjaksherif, kept in the 
Eyab mosque, at Constantinople. 

Bible of. The Koran. 

Born at Mecca, A.D. 570, 

Bow. Catum (q.?.). 

Camel (Swiftest). Adha (q.v.). 

Cave. The cave in which Gabriel ap- 
peared to Mahomet was Hoia. 

Coffin. It is said that Mahomet’s 
coffin, in the Had’gira of Medi’‘na, is 
suspended in mid-air without any sup- 
port. Many explanations have been 
given of this phenomenon, the one 
most generally received being that the 
coffin is of iron, placed midway between 
two magnets. Burckhardt visited the 
sacred enclosure, and found the ingenuity 
of science useless in this case, as the 
coffin is not suspended at all. 

Cuirass. FADHA (q.v.). 

Daughter (His favourite). Fatima. 

Died at Medina, Monday, June 8th, 
632, age of seventy-two. The 10th of 
the Hedj’rah. 

Dove. Mahomet had a dove which 
he used to feed with wheat out of his 
ear, When the dove was hungry it 
used to light on the prophet’s shoulder, 
and thrust its bill into his ear to find 
its meal. Mahomet thus induced the 
Arabs to believe that he was inspired 
by the Holy Ghost in the semblance of 


Mahomet 794 Mahomet 
Mahomet (continued). Mahomet (continued). 
adove. (Sir Walter Raleigh : History Stepping-stone, The stone upon which’ 
of the World, bk. 1, pt. i. chap. vi. (See | the prophet placed his foot when he 


also Prideaux : Li ife of Mahomet.) 


“ Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?” 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry VI, i. 2. 


Father. Abdall, of the tribe of 
Koreish. He died a little before or 
little after the birth of Mahomet. 

Father-in-law (father of Ayesha). 
Abu-Bekr, Hesucceeded Mahomet and 
was the first calif. 

Flight fi ‘rie Mecca (called the Hedj’- 
rah), A.D. 622, He retired to Medi’na, 

ee (paternal), Abd-el-Mu- 
tallib, who adopted the orphan boy, but 
died in two years. 

Hedjvrah. (See above, Flight.) 

Heir (adopted), Said or Zaid. 

Horse. Al Borak [The Lightning]. It 
conveyed the prophet to the seventh 
heaven. (See Borax.) 

“ Borak was a fine-limbed, high-standing horse, 
strong in frame. and with a coat as glossy as 
marble, His colour was saffron, with one hair of 
gold for every three of tawny 
less and pointed liken reed ; ‘his eyes large and 


full of fire; his nostrils w ide and steaming; he 
had a white star on his fore head,a neck grac efully 


; his ears were rest- 


arched, a mane soft and silky, anda thick tail that 
swept the ground.’—Croque mitaine, ii. 9. 
Miracles. Chadin mentions several, 
but some say he performed no miracle, 
The miracle of the moon is best known. 


Moon (The). Habib the Wise told 
Mahomet to prove his mission by cleay- 
ing the moon in two. Mahomet raised 
his hands towards heaven, and ina loud 
voice summoned the moon to do Habib’s 
bidding. Accordingly, it descended to 
the top of the Caaba (q.v.), made seven 
circuits, and, coming to the ‘ prophet,’ 
entered his right sleeve and came out of 
the left. It then entered the collar of his 
robe, and descended to the skirt, clove 
itself into two plaits, one of which ap- 
peared in the east of the skies and the 
other in the west; and the two parts 
ultimately reunited and resumed their 
usual form. 

Mother of. Amina, of the tribe of 
Koreish. She died when Mahomet was 
six years old. 


Mule. Fadda (q.v.). 
Pond. Just inside the gates of Para- 
dise. It was white as milk, and he who 


drank thereof would never "thirst again. 
(Al Koran.) 

Revelation made when he was _ forty 
years old by Gabriel, on Mount Hora, 
in Mecea. 


Standard. ΒΑ] γα, 


mounted the beast Al Borak on his 
ascent to heaven. It rose as the beast 
rose, but Mahomet, putting his hand 
upon it, forbade ‘it to follow him,. 
whereupon it remained suspended in 
mid-air, where the true believer, if he 
has faith enough, may still behold it, 

Swords, Dhu’l Fakar (the trenchant), 
Al Battar (the beater), Medham (the 
keen), and Hatef (the deadly). (See 
Sworps.) 


Successor, (See above, Father-in-law.) 
Tribe. On both sides, the Koreish, 


Unele, who took charge of Mahomet at 
the death of his grandfather, Abu Taleb’. 


Wives. Ten in number, viz. (1) 
Kadidja, a rich widow of the tribe of 
Koreish, who had been twice married 
already, and was forty years of age. 
For twenty-five years she was his only 
wife, but at her death he married nine 
others, all of whom survived him. 

mare loved Mary, a Coptie girl, ani in 
order to justify the amour, added a nev chapter 
to the Koran, Which may be found in Gagnier’s 
Notes upon Abulfeda, γν. 151. 

The nine wives. (1) Ayesha, daughter 
of Abu Bekr, only nine years old on her 
wedding-day. This was his youngest 
and favourite wife. 

(2) Sauda, widow of Sokran, 
nurse to his daughter Fat’ima. 

(3) Hafsa, a widow twenty-eight years 
old, who also had a son. She was 
daughter of Omeya. 

(4) Zeinab, wife of Zaid, but divorced 
in order that the prophet might take her 
to wife. 

(5) Barra, wife of a young Arab and 
daughter of Al Hareth, chief of an Arab 
tribe. Both father and husband were 
slain in a battle with Mahomet. She 


and 


| was a captive. 


(6) Rehana, daughter of Simeon, and 
a Jewish captive. 

(7) Safiya, the espoused wife of 
Kena’na. Kena’na was put to death. 
Safiya outlived the prophet forty years. 

(8) Omm Habi’ba—i.e. mother of 
Habiba ; the widow of Abu Sof'ian. 

(9) Maimu’na, fifty-one years old, 
and a widow, who survived all his other 
wives. 

Also ten or fifteen concubines, chief 
of whom was Mari’yeh, mother of [bra- 
him, the*prophet’s son, who died when 
fifteen months old 

Year of Deputations, 


A.D. 630, the 
8th of the Hedj’rah, ; 


Mahoun 


~1 


ue 


Mahoun’ (2 syl.). Nameof contempt 
for Mahomet, a Moslem, a Moor. In 
Scotland it used to mean devi/. 


“There's the son of the renezgade—spawn of 
Mahoun (son of the Moorish princess).”’—Ven- 


geance of Mudarra. 
Mahound (2 syl.). Mahomet. (See 
Macon.) 
“Ofttimes by Termagant and Mahound swore.’ 
Spenser: Faérie Queene, Vii. 47. 
Mahu. The fiend-prince that urges 
to theft. 


“Five fiends have been in poor Tom at once: of 
lust, as Obidicut ; Hobbididance, prince of dumb- 
ness ; Mahu, of stealing ; Modo, of murder ; Flib- 
hertizibhet. of mopping and mowing. * — Shake- 
speare: King Lear, iv. 1. 

Maid Marian. A morris dance, or 
the boy in the morris dance, called Mad 
Morion, from the ‘‘morion’’ which he 
wore onhis head. (See Morris Dance.) 
Maid Marian is a corruption first of the 
words, and then of the sex. Having got 
the words Maid Marian, etymologists 
have puzzled out a suitable character in 
Matilda, the daughter of Fitz-Walter, 
baron of Bayard and Dunmow, who 
eloped with Robert Fitz-Ooth, the out- 
law, and lived with him in Sherwood 
Forest. Some refine upon this tale, and 
affirm that Matilda was married to the 
outlaw (commonly called Robin Hood) 
by Friar Tuck. 


“ A set of morrice dancers danced a maidmarian 

With a tabor and pipe.” —Temple. 
“Next ‘tis agreed 

That fair Matilda henceforth change her name, 

And while [she lives] i in Shirewodde . . 

She by maid Marian’s name be only called.” 

Downfall of Robert, Earl of Huntingdon. 

Maid of Athens, immortalised by 
Byron,was Theresa Macri. Some twenty- 
four years after this poem was written 
the maid was in dire poverty, without a 
single vestige of beauty. She had a 


large family, and lived in a hovel. 


Maid of Norway. Margaret, daugh- 
ter of Erie II. and Margaret of Norway. 
On the death of Alexander III. she 
was acknowledged Queen of Scotland, 
and was betrothed to Edward, son of 
Edward I. of England, but she died on 
her passage to Scotland. 


Maid of Orleans. Jeanne d’Arc 
(1412-1431). 


Maid of Perth (/uir). Catherine 
Glover, daughter of Simon Glover, the 
old, glover of Perth. She kisses Smith 
while asleep on St. Valentine’s morn- 


ing, and ultimately marries him. (See 
Smirn.) (Scott: Fair Maid of Perth.) 


Maid of Saragossa. ihe 
Zaragoza, distinguished for her heroism 
when Saragossa was besieged in 1808 


Maidenhair Γ 


and 1809. Byron refers to her in his 
Childe Harold. 


Maiden. A machine resembling the 
guillotine for beheading criminals in the 
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries ; 
brought to Scotland by the Regent 
Morton from Halifax, in Yorkshire, for 
the purpose of beheading the laird of 
Pennycuick. It was also called ‘the 
widow.” 

He who invented the maiden first han- 
selled it. Referring to Regent Morton, 
who introduced this sort of guillotine 
into Scotland, erroneously said to have 
been the first to suffer by it. Thomas 
Scott, one of the murderers of Rizzio, 

was beheaded by it in 1566, fifteen years 
before Morton’s execution. 


Maiden Assize (4). One in which 
there is no person to be brought to trial. 
We have also the expressions maiden 
tree, one never lopped; maiden fortress, 
one never taken; maiden speech; ete. 
In a maiden assize, the sheriff of the 
county presents the judge with a pair of 
white gloves. White gloves symbolise 
innocence. Maiden primarily means 
unspotted, unpolluted, innocent; thus 
Hubert says to the king— 

“This hand of mine 

Ts yet a maiden and an innocent hand, 

Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.” 
Shakespeare : King John, iy. 2. 

Maiden King (Z/e). Malcolm IV. 
of Scotland. (1141, 1153-1165.) 

“Malcolm... son of the brave and generous 
Prince Henry ... was so kind and gentle in his 


disposition, that he was usually called Malcolm 
the Maiden.”’—Scott : Tules of a Grandfather, iv. 


Maiden Lane (London). So called 
from an image of the Maiden or Virgin 
Mary, which stood there before the Re- 
formation. 


Maiden or Virgin Queen. Eliza- 
beth, Queen of England, who never 
married. (1433, 1558-1603.) 


Maiden Town, i.¢. ἃ town never 
taken by the enemy. Edinburgh. The 
tradition is that the maiden daughters 
of a Pictish king were sent there for 
protection during an intestine war. 


Maiden of the Mist. Anne of 
Geierstein, in Sir Walter Scott’s novel 
called Anne of Geierstein, 

Maidenhair (a fern, so-called from 
its hair-like stalks) never takes wet or 
moisture. 


“His skin is like the herb called true Maiden’s 
hair. which never takes wet or moisture, but still 
keeps dry, though laid at the bottom of a river as 
long as you please. For this reason it is called 
Adiantos.”—Rabelais: Pantagruel, iv. 24. 


Main-brace 


Main-brace. Splice the main-brace, 
in sea language, means to take a draught 
of strong drink to keep the spirits up, 
and give strength for extra exertion. 
The main-brace is the rope by which 
the mainsail of a ship is set in position, 
and to splice it, in a literal sense, when 
the rope is broken or injured, is to join 
the two ends together again. 


Main Chance (7/e). Profit or money, 
probably from the game called hazard. 

To have an eye to the main chance, 
means to keep in view the money to be 
made out of an enterprise. 

~ In the game of ‘‘hazard,’’ the 
first throw of the dice is called the main, 
which must be between four and nine, 
the player then throws his chance, which 
determines the main. 


Mainote (2syl.). A pirate that infests 

the coast of Attica, 
“... Like hoat 
Of island-pirate or Mainote.” 
Buron: The Giaour, 

Maintain is to hold in the hand; 
hence, to keep ; hence, to clothe and feed. 
(French, main tenir ; Latin, manus teneo.) 


Maitland Club (Zhe) of literary 
antiquities, instituted at Glasgow in 
1828. It published a number of works, 


Maize (1 syl.). According to Ame- 
rican superstition, if a damsel finds a 
blood-red ear of maize, she will have a 
suitor before the year is over. 

“Even the blood-red ear to Evangeline brought 
not her lover.” Lonyfellow : Evangeline. 

Majesty. Henry VIII. was the first 
English sovereign who was styled ‘‘ His 
Majesty.’’ Henry IV. was “‘ His Grace ;”’ 
Henry VI., ‘“‘ His Excellent Grace ;”’ 
Edward IV.,‘‘ High and Mighty Prince ;”’ 
Henry VII., ‘‘ His Grace,’ and ‘‘ His 
Highness ;’’ Henry VIII., in the earlier 
part of his reign, was styled ‘‘ His High- 
ness.”” ‘‘ His Sacred Majesty ’’ was a 
title assumed by subsequent sovereigns, 
but was afterwards changed to ‘‘ Most 
Excellent Majesty.” 


Majesty, in heraldry. An eagle 
crowned and holding a sceptre is ‘‘an 
eagle in his majesty.’’ 


Majolica Ware. A pottery ori- 
ginally made in the island of Majorca 
or Majolica, and lately revived by Mr. 
Minton. 


Majority. He has joined the majority. 
He is dead. Blair says, in his Grave, 
“°Tis long since Death had the ma- 
jority.” ‘* Abitt ad plures;” “ Quin 
prius me ad plures penetravi”’ (Plautus : 


796 


Make the Ice 


Trinummus, line 14). 
guando cum pluribus habitarint.” 
Polybius, viii. xxx. 7.) 


Make. 

What make you here? What do yon 
want? What are you come here for? 
A French phrase: ‘‘Que faites-vous ici ?”’ 

“Now, sir. what make you here?"—Shake- 
speare: As You Like It, 1.1. 

Make a hand of or on (70), To 

slay, destroy, waste, or spoil. 


“So when I came to myself again, I cried him 
mercy ; but he said,‘ I know not to show mercy ;' 
and with that knockt me down again. He had, 
doubtless, made a hand of me, but that one came 
by, and bid him forhear."—Bunyan; Pilgrim's 
Progress, p. 93 (first edition), 


Make a Hit (70). To succeed un- 
expectedly in an adventure or specula- 
tion, (See H1r.) 

Make a Virtue of Necessity (70). 
See Chaucer’s poem of the Knightes 
Tale, line 3,044; also The Two Gentle- 
men of Verona and Dryden’s poem of 
Pal&tmon and Arcite. 


Make away with(7»). To squander; 
to put out of the way ; to murder. The 
French verb défaire is used sometimes 
in a similar way; as, ‘‘ [/ tdcha de se 
défaire secretement de ses pariers.”” 

Make away with Oneself (70). To 
commit suicide, 


Make Bricks without Straw (70). 
To attempt to do something without 
having the necessary material supplied. 
The allusion is to the Israelites in 
Egypt, who were commanded by their 
taskmasters so todo. (Exodus ν. 7.) 


Make Eyes at (70). To flirt with 
the eyes, ‘‘ Ociilis venari.”’ (See Cast.) 


Make Mountains of Molehills 
(To). To make a difficulty of trifles, 
“Arcem ex cloaca& facére.”’ The corre- 
sponding French proverb is, ‘‘Faire d’un 
mouche un éléphant.”’ 


‘* Beatos eos fore, 
(See 


Make one’s Bread (70). To earn 
one’s living. 
Make the Door (70). To make it 


fast by shutting and bolting it. We 
still say, ‘‘ Have you made my room?” 
—i.e.made it tidy. Similarly, to ‘‘ make 
the bed”’ is to arrange it fit for use. 


“Why at this time the doors are made against 
you.” Shakespeare: Comedy of Errors, ili. 1. 


“Make the door upon a woman's wit, and it will 
one at the casement.”—Shakespeare: As You Like 
CiNal: 
Make the Ice (70). To near the 
whale-fishing ground. To make for the 
ice is to steer in that direction. 


* About the end of April we neared the fishing- 
round, or, to be more technical, ‘made the ice,’ a 
é. Thomsin; Autobiography, p, 128. 


Make-wage 


Make-wage. Wages supplemented 
by grants or rates. Similarly, a make- 
weight [loaf] is a small loaf added to 
make up the proper weight. 


Make-weight. A bit [of meat, 
cheese, bread, or other article] thrown 
into the scale to make the weight 
correct. 


Makeshift (4). A temporary ar- 
rangement during an emergency; a 
device. (The Anglo-Saxon seyft means 
a division, hence a device.) 


Malabar. 


Malagi’gi (in Orlando Furioso). Son 
of Buo’vo, and brother of Al’diger and 
Vivian, of Clarmont’s race; a wizard 
knight, cousin of Rinaldo. (See Mavueis.) 


Malagrowther (Malachi). The sig- 
nature of Sir Walter Scott to a series 
of letters in 1822 contributed to the 
Edinburgh Review upon the lowest 
limitation of paper money to £5. They 
caused immense sensation, not inferior 
to that produced by Drapier’s Letters 
(q.v.) in Ireland. No political tract, 
since Burke’s Leflections on the French 
Revolution, ever excited such a stir in 
Great Britain. 


(See under VEUVE.) 


Mal'agrow'ther (Sir Jfmmgo). An 
old courtier soured by misfortune, who 
tries to make everyone as discontented 
as himself. (Scott: Fortunes of Nigel.) 


Malakoff (in the Crime’a). In183la 
sailor and ropemaker, named Alexander 
Ivanovitch Malakoff, celebrated for his 
wit and conviviality, lived at Sebastopol. 
He had many friends and admirers, but, 
being engaged in a riot, was dismissed 
the dockyards in which he had been em- 
ployed. He then opened a liquor-shop 
on the hill outside the town. His old 
friends gathered round him, and his shop 
was called the Malakoff. In time other 
houses were built around, and the Mala- 
koff became a town, which ultimately 
was fortified. This was the origin of the 
famous Malakoff Tower, which caused 
so much trouble to the allied army in 
the Criméan War. (Gazette de France.) 


Malambru’no. The giant, first 
cousin of Queen Magun’cia, of Canday’a, 
who enchanted Antonomas’ia and her 
husband, and shut them up in the tomb 
of the deceased queen. The infanta he 
transformed into a monkey of brass, 
and the knight into a crocodile. Don 
Quixote achieved their disenchantment 
by mounting the wooden horse called 


797 Male Sapphires 


Clavile’no. (Cervantes: Don Quixote, 
part ii. book iii. chap. xlv.) 


Malaprop (M/7s.), in The Rivals, by 
Sheridan. (French, mal ἃ propos.) 
Noted for her blunders in the use of 
words. ‘‘ As headstrong as an allegory 
on the banks of the Nile’’ is one of her 
famous similes. (See PARTINGTON.) 


Malbec’co. <A ‘‘cankered, crabbed 
earl,’’? very wealthy, but miserly and 
mean. He seems to be the impersona- 
tion of self-inflicted torments. He 
married a young wife named Helenore, 
who set fire to his house, and eloped 
with Sir Paridel. Malbecco cast him- 
self over a high rock, and all his flesh 
vanished into thin air, leaving behind 
nothing but his ghost, which was meta- 
morphosed into Jealousy. (Spenser : 
Faérie Queene, book iii.) 


Malbrouk or Marlbrough (Jar/- 
bro’), does not date from the battle of 
Malplaq’uet (1709), but from the time 
of the Crusades, 600 years before. Ac- 
cording to a tradition discovered by M. 
de Chateaubriand, the air came from 
the Arabs, and the tale is a legend of 
Mambron, a crusader. It was brought 
into fashion during the Revolution by 
Mme. Poitrine, who used to sing it to her 
royal foster-child, the son of Louis XVI. 
M. Ar’ago tells us that when M. Monge, 
at Cairo, sang this air to an Egyptian 
audience, they all knew it, and joined 
init. Certainly the song has nothing to 
do with the Duke of Marlborough, as it 
is all about feudal castles and Eastern 
wars. We are told also that the band 
of Captain Cook, in 1770, was playing 
the air one day on the east coast of 
Australia, when the natives evidently 
recognised it, and seemed enchanted. 
(Moniteur de ?_Armee.) 

“ Malbrouk s’en va-t-en guerre, 
Mironton, mironton, mirontain® ; 
Malbrouk s’en va-t-en guerre, 
Nul sait quand reviendra, 
I] reviendra χὰ piques— 
Mironton,. mironton, mirontaine ... 
Ou a la Trinité.” 

“ The name Malbrouk occurs in the 
Chansons de Gestes, and also in the 
Basque Pastorales. 

Malcolm. Eldest son of Duncan, 
King of Scotland. He was called Can- 
More (Great-head), and succeeded Mac- 
beth (1056). (Shakespeare : Macbeth.) 

Maldine (French). School. So called 
because at school ‘‘ 07 dine assez mal.” 

Male. (See SEX.) 


Male Sapphires. Deep indigo- 
coloured sapphires. The pale blue are 


Male suada Fames 


798 


the female sapphires. (Emmanuel: Dia- 
monds and Precious Stones [1867].) 


Mailc suada Fames. Hunger is a 
bad counsellor. The Freuch say, ** }¢/ain 
affainé, demi envage.” 


Malebolge (4 syl.). The eighth 
circle of Dante’s Inferno, which con- 
tained in all ten δοϊχὶ or pits. 

“There is a place within the depths of hell 

* Called Malebolge.” Dante: luferno, xviii. 

Malecasta. The impersonation of 
lust. (Spenser; Faerie Queene, ii. 1.) 

Male’ger |wretchedly thin]. Captain 
of the’ rabble rout which attack the 
castle of Teniperance. He was ‘‘ thin 
asa rake,’’? and. cold as a serpent. 
Prince Arthur attacks him and flings 
him to the ground, but Maleger springs 
up with renewed vigour, Arthur now 
stabs him through and through, but it is 
like stabbing a shadow; he then takes 
him in his arms and squeezes him as in 
a vice, but it is like squeezing a piece of 
sponge ; he then remembers that every 
time the carl touches the earth his 
strength is renewed, so he squeezes all 
his breath out, and tosses the body into 
a lake. (See ANTHOS.) (Spenser: Faerie 
Queene. book ii. 11.) 
-Malengin [guile]. On his back he 
carried a net ὁ" to catch fools.’’. Being 
attacked by Sir Artegal and. his iron 
man, he turned himself first into a fox, 
then ἰο ἃ bush, then to a. bird, then to a 
hedgehog, then .to a: snake ; but: Talus 
was-a match for all his: deceits, and 
killed him... (Spenser: . Faerie Queene, 
γν. 9). “ τ Eimer \ ρα, 5 2 

Malepardus. The castle of Master 
Reynard the Fox, in the tale so called. 


Malherbe’s Canons of French 


Poetry. 
(1) Poetry is to contain only such 
words as are in common use by well- 


educated Parisians. 

(2) A word ending with a vowel must 
in no case be followed by a word begin- 
ning with a vowel. 

(3) One line in no wise is to run into 
another. . 

(4) The cxesura must always be most 
strictly observed. 

(5) Every alternate rhyme must be 
feminine. 

- Maliom. “Mahomet is so called in 
some of the old romances. 

“Send five, send six against me. By Maliom I 
swear, I'll take them all.’—Fierabras. 


‘Malkin. The nickname of Mary, 


| century : 


Malt 

now called Molly. Hence the Maid 
Marian is so termed. 

Malkin. A kitchen wench, now called 
a Molly, is by Shakespeare termed ‘ the 
kitchen Malkin. (Coriolanus, ii. 1. 

Malkin. A scarecrow or figure 
dressed like a scullion ; hence, anything 


| made of rags, as ἃ mop. 


Malkin. A Moll or female cat, the 
male being a ‘‘Tom.’’ When the cat 


| mews, the witch in Macbeth calls out, 


ΚΤ come, Grimalkin”’ (i. 1). 


Mall or Pail Mail (London). From 
the Latin pell@re imail’co (to strike with 
a mallet or bat); so called because it 
was where the ancient game of pell-mall 
used to be played. Cotgrave says :— 

“Pale malle*is a game wherein a round box- 
hallis struck witha mallet through a high arch 


of iron. He that can do this most frequently 
wins.” 


It was a fashionable game in the 
reign of Charles II., and the walk called 
the Mall was appropriated to it for the 
king and his court. 


Mall Supper (4). A harvest feast 
(North of England). A ma/ is a feast, 
our word meal (Anglo-Saxon, w@/). 


Mallows. dbstain from mallors. 
This is the ‘thirty-eighth symbol in the 
Protreptics. Pythagoras tells us that 
mallow was the first messenger sent by 
the gods to earth to indicate to mam 
that they sympathised with them and 
had. pity on them. To make food of 
mallows would be to dishonour the gods. 
Mallows are cathartic. i 


-Malmesbury (Ji//iain of). Eleventh 
author of numerous chron- 
icles. His Gesta Regum Anglorumn is.a 
resumé of English history from the 
arrival of the English in 440 to the 
year 1120, His Historia Novella gives 
a retrospect of the reign of Henry 1., 
and terminates abruptly with the year 


1143. His third work is called Gesta 
Pontificum. All the three are included 


in-the Sertptores post Bedam. 
Malmesbury Monastery. Founded 
by Maildulf, Meildulf, or Meldun, an 
Irishman. 
Malmsey Wine is the wine of Mal- 
va'sia, in Candia. | > 
“Thane spyces unsparyly thay spendyde there- 
: aftyre, - 


Malvesye and muskadelle, thase mervelyous 
drynkes.” Morte @ Arthure. 


(See DROWNED IN A BUTT OF . . .) 
Malt. Zhe Sermon on Malt was by 


John Dod, rector of Fawsley, North- 
ants, called the decalogist, from his 


Malt 


famous exposition of the Ten Command- 
ments. A Puritan divine. (1447-1645.) 

εν This was not Dr. William Dodd, who was 
executed for forgery (1729-1777). 

Malt... Meal. When the malt gets 
ahkoon the meal. When persons, after 
dinner, get more or less fuddled. 

“When the malt begins to get aboon the meal, 


they'll begin to speak about government In kirk 
and state.’ —Sir W. Scott: Old Mortality, chap. iv. 


Maltese Cross. Made thus: > 


Malthu'sian (4). <A_ disciple of 
Malthus, whose political doctrines are 
laid down in his Lssay on the Principles 
of Population. 

Malthu’sian Doctrine. That popu- 
lation increases more than the means of 
increasing subsistence does, so that in 
time, if no check is put upon the increase 
of population, many must starve or all 
be ill-fed. Applied to individual nations, 
like Britain, it intimated that something 
must be done to check the increase of 
population, as all the land would not 
suffice to feed its inhabitants. 


Malum, in Latin, means a apple; 
and “ jnalus, mala, malin”? means evil. 
Southey, in his Commonplace Book, quotes 
a witty etymon given by Nicolson and 
Burn, making the noun derived from 
the adjective, in allusion, I suppose, to 
the apple eaten by Eve. Of course, 
μι μι} (an apple) is the Greek mé/on or 
ma@/on (an apple-tree). 


Malum in Se (Latin). What is of 
itself wrong, and would be so even if no 
law existed against its: commission, as 
lying, murder, theft. 


Malum Prohib/itum (Latin). What 
is wrong merely because it is forbidden, 
as eating a particular fruit was wrong 
in Adam and Eve, because they were 
commanded not to do so. Doing secu- 
lar work on the Sabbath. 


_Malvo'lio. Steward to Olivia, in 
Shakespeare’s Zice/fith Night. 


Mamamouchi. A mock honour. 
Better be a country gentleman in Eng- 
land than a foreign Mamamouchi. The 
honour is conferred on M. Jourdain. 
(Wolicre: Bourgeois Gentilhomme.) 


Mambriro’s Helmet was of pure 
gold, and rendered the wearer invulner- 
able. It was taken possession of by 
Rinaldo (Orlando Firioso). Cervantes 
tells us of a barber who-was caught in a 
shower, aud to protect his hat clapped 
his brazen-basin on his head. Don 


799 


Mammon 


Quixote insisted that this basin was the 
enchanted helmet of the Moorish king. 


Mam elon (2syl., French). A mound 
in the shape of a woman’s breast. These 
artificial mounds were common in the 
siege of Sebastopol. (Latin, mamma, a 
breast.) 


Mamelukes (2 syl.) or Mamalukes 
(Arabic, mamluc, a slave), A name 
given in Egypt to the slaves of the beys 
brought from the Caucasus, and formed 
into a standing army. In‘ 1254 these 
military “ἢ slaves’? raised one of their 
body to the supreme power; and Nour- 
eddin Ali, the founder of the Baharites, 
gave twenty-three sultans; in 1852 the 
dynasty of the Borjites, also Mamlucs, 
succeeded, and was followed by twenty- 
one successors. Selim J., Sultan of 
Turkey, overthrew the Mamluc kingdom 
in 1517, but allowed the twenty-four 
beys to be elected from their body. In 
1811, Mohammed Ali by a wholesale 
massacre annihilated the Mamelukes, 
and became viceroy of Egypt. 


Mamma, Mother. The former is 
Norman-French, and the latter Anglo- 
Saxon. (See Papa.) 


Mammet. A puppet, a favourite, an 
idol. A corruption of Mahomet. Ma- 
hometanism being the most prominent 
form of false religion with which Chris- 
tendom was acquainted ‘before the Re- 
formation, it became a generic word to 
designate any false faith ; even idolatry 
is called mammetry. 


Mammon. The god of this world, 
The word in Syriac means riches. (See 
Milton: Paradise Lost, bk. 1. 678.) .. His 
speech in the council is book ii, 229, ete. 

Mammon. In Spenser's Fucrie Quecne, 
Mammon says if Sir Guyon will serve 
him he shall be the richest man in the 
world; but the knight says money has 
no charm for him. Mammon then takes 
him to his smithy, and tells him he may 
make what orders he likes, but Guyon 
declines to make any. The god -then 
offers to give him Phil’otine to wife, but 
Guyon will not accept the honour. 
Lastly, he takes him to Froserpine’s 
bower, and tells him to pluck the golden 
fruit, and rest on the silver stool; Sir 
Guyon again refuses, and after three 
days’ sojourn in the infernal regions 
is led back to earth. (1. 7.) 


Mammon of Unrighteousness 
(The). .Money. A Scripture phrase 


(Luke xvi. 9). Mammon was the Syrian 


‘Mammon’s Cave 


800 


Man of Brass 


god of wealth, similar to Plutus of 
Greek and Roman mythology. 


Mammon’s Cave. The abode of the 
Money-god. Sir Guyon visited this 
cave, and Spenser gives a very full de- 
scription of it. (Faérie Queene, 11. 7.) 

Sir Epicure Mammon, A worldly 
sensualist. (Ben Jonson: Alchemist.) 


Mammoth Cave (Zhe). In Edmon- 
son county, Kentucky, the largest in 
the world. 

Man (1516. of), called by the ancient 
Britons main-au (little island), Latinised 
into Menav-ia. Cesar calls it Mona (i.e. 
Mon-ah), the Scotch pronunciation of 
Manau. Mona and Pliny’s Monadbia are 
varieties of ‘‘ Menavia.”’ 


Man. Emblematic of St. Matthew, 
because he begins his gospel by tracing 
the manhood of Jesus back to David. 
Mark is symbolised by a /iov, because he 
begins his gospel with John the Baptist 
and Jesus in the wilderness. Luke is 
symbolised by a calf, because he begins 
his gospel with the Temple sacrifices. 
And John as a eagle, because he looks 
right into heaven and begins his gospel 
with Jesus the divine /ogos. The four 
are indicated in Ezekiel’s cherub (i. 10.) 

Man. Average weight 150 lbs.; height, 
69 inches ; strength, 420 lbs. 


Man Friday (4). A useful and 
faithful servant, like the Man Friday in 
Robinson Crusoe. 

“Count von Rechberg ...was Prince Bismarck’s 
‘Man Friday.’ ”—Athen@um, 1881. 

Man-jack. Every man-jack of you. 
Everyone of you. (See wider Jack.) 


Man... Monkey. The Bedouins 
affirm that the monkeys of Mount Kara 
were once human beings, thus trans- 
formed for disobedience to their pro- 
phet. The Arabs have a similar tradi- 
tion, that the monkey (Nasnds) and the 
ape (/Vabar) were once human beings, 


Man-Mountain or Qwinhus Flestrin. 
So Gulliver was called Lilliput. 


- Man Proposes, but (od disposes. 
So-we read in the Jmnitatio Christi ; 
Herbert (Jacula Prudentum) has nearly 
the same identical words. 


Man Threefold. According to Diog’- 
enés Laertius, the body was composed of 
(1) a mortal part; (2) a divine and 
ethereal part, called the phrén; and 
(3) an aérial and vaporous part, called 
the thumos. 


According to the Romans, man has a 
threefold soul, which at the dissolution 


of the body resolves itself into (1) the 
Manes ; (2) the An'ima or Spirit; (3) 
the Umbra. The Manés went either to 
Elysium or Tar’tarus; the Anima re- 
turned to the gods; but the Umbra 
hovered about the body as unwilling to 
quit it. 

According to the Jews, man consists 
of body, soul, and spirit. 

Man in Black (Z/c). Supposed to 
be Goldsmith’s father. (Citizen of the 
World.) Washington Irving has a tale 
with the same title. 


Man in the Iron Mask (7.6). (See 
Tron Mask.) 
Man in the Moon (Ziv). Some sa 


it is a man leaning on a fork, on whic 
he is carrying a bundle of sticks picked 
up on a Sunday. The origin of this 
fable is from Num. xy. 32-36. Some 
add a dog also; thus the prologue in 
Midsummer Night's Dream says, ‘*'This 
man with lantern, dog, and bush of 
thorns, presenteth moonshine ; ” Chaucer 
says ‘‘hestole the bush’ (Zest. of Cres- 
seide). Another tradition says that the 
man is Cain, with his dog and thorn- 
bush; the thorn-bush being emblema- 
tical of the thorns and briars of the 
fall, and the dog being the ‘‘ foul fiend.”’ 
Some poets make out the “‘ man”’ to be 
Endym’ion, taken to the moon by Diana. 

Man in the moon, The nameless per- 
son at one time employed in elections to . 
negotiate bribes. Thus the rumour was 
set flying among the electors that ‘‘ the 
Man in the Moon had arrived.”’ 

1 know no more about it than the man 
in the moon, I know nothing at all 
about the matter. 


Man of Belial. Any wicked man. 
Shimei so called David (2 Sam. xvi. 7). 
The ungodly are called ‘“ children of 
Belial,’’ or ‘‘ sons of Belial.’”’” The word 
Belial means worthlessness. 


Man of Blood. David is so called 
(2 Sam, xvi. 7). 

The Puritans applied the term to 
Charles I., because he made war against 
his Parliament. Any man of violence. 


Man of Blood and Iron (Zi). 
Otto von Bismarck (Prince Bismarck), 
called ‘‘ man of blood” fromhis great war 
policy, and “iron”? from his indomit- 
able will. Many years Chancellor of 
Prussia and Germany. (Born September 
Ist, 1815.) 

Man of Brass (Zhe). ‘Talos, the 
work of Hephestos (Vulcan). He tra- 
versed Crete to prevent strangers from 


Man of December 


801 


Manciple 


aT 


setting foot on the island, and threw 
rocks at the Argonauts to prevent their 
landing. Talos used to make himself 
red-hot, and hug intruders to death. 
“That portentous Man of Brass 
Hephiestos made in days of yore, 
Who stalked about the Cretan shore... 
And threw stones at the Argonauts.” 
Longfellow : The Wayside Inn. 
Man of December. Napoleon III. 
He was made President of the French 
Republic December 11, 1848; made his 
coup détat December 2, 1851; and was 
made Emperor December 2, 1852. 


Man of Destiny (7/7). Napoleon I. 
(1761, 1804-1814, died 1821). He looked 
on himself as an instrument in the 
hands of destiny. 

“The Man of Destiny ... had power for a time 
to bind kings with chains, and nobles with fetters 
of iron.”—Sir Walter Scott. 

Man of Feeling. The title of a 
novel by Henry Mackenzie. His ‘“‘man 
of feeling’’ is named Harley—a sensi- 
ane bashful, kind-hearted, sentimental 

ero. 


Man of Letters (4). An author. 
Man of Remnants (4). A tailor. 


Man of Ross. John Kyrie, of Ross, 
in Herefordshire, immortalised by Pope 
in his epistle On the Use of Riches. 

Man of Salt. A man like @néas, 
always ‘‘ melting into salt tears,’’ called 
“*drops of salt.” 

“ This would make a man a man of salt, 
To use his eyes for garden waterpots. 
Shakespeare: King Lear, iv.6. 

Man of Sedan. Napoleon III. was 
so called, because he surrendered his 
sword to William, King of Prussia, after 
the battle of Sedan (September 2, 1870). 


Man of Silence (7/c). 
IIL. (1808, 1852-70, died 1873.) 

“France? You must know better than T your 
position with the Man of Silence.”"—For Sceptre 
and Crown, chap. i. 

Man of Sin (Zhe) (2 Thess. ii. 3). 
The Roman Catholics say the Man of 
Sin is Antichrist. The Puritans applied 
the term to the Pope of Rome; the 
ΤΉ - Monarchy men to Cromwell ; 
many modern theologians apply it to 
that ‘wicked one’’ (identical with the 
“last horn’? of Dan. vii.) who is to 
immediately precede the second advent. 


Man of Straw (4). A person with- 
out capital. It used to be customary 
for a number of worthless fellows to 
loiter about our law-courts to become 
false witness or surety for anyone who 
would buy their services; their badge 
Was a straw in their shoes, 


δ᾽ 


” 


Napoleon 


Man of the Hill (7c). A tedious 
‘‘hermit of the vale,’’ which encumbers 
the story of Zom Jones, by Fielding. 


Man of the Sea. (Sce OLD, etc.) 


Man of the Third Republic (7/e). 
Napoleon III, (1802, reigned 1852-70, 
died 1873). (J. Gambetta ; 1838-1882.) 


Man of the World (4). One 
“knowing ’’ in world-craft; no green- 
horn. Charles Macklin brought out a 
comedy (1704), and Henry Mackenzie a 
novel (1773) with the same title. 


Man of Three Letters. 
Homo.) 


Man-of-War (4). A _ line-of-battle 
ship, or one carrying men armed for 
battle. A contraction of the phrase ‘‘ A 
man-of-war ship.” 

Man-of-war, or Portuguese man-of- 
war. The nautilus. 

“Frank went to the captain and told him that 
Tom had given him leave to have the man-of-war 
if he could get it.’—Goulding : Adventures of the 
Young Marooners, 17. 

Man of Wax. A model man; like 
one fashioned inwax. Horace speaks of 
the ‘‘ waxen arms of Telephus,’’ mean- 
ing model arms, or of perfect shape and 
colour; and the nurse says of Romeo, 
“Why, he’s a man of wax ”’ (i. 3), which 
she explains by saying, ‘‘ Nay, he’s a 
flower, i’ faith a very flower.” 

Man of Whipcord (4). A coach- 
man. The reference is to his whip. 

“He would not have suffered the coachman to 
proceed while the horses were unfif, for service. 
... Yetthe man of whipeord escaped some severe 

. reproach.’—Sir W. Scott: The Antiquary, 1. 

Manche (French). Aimer nvieux la 
manche que le bras. Cupboard love. 
Manche is a slang word; a gratuity 
given to a cicerone, cabman, or porter. 
It is the Italian buona mancia. 

Jeter le manche apres la cognée. To 
throw the helve after the hatchet. To 
abandon what may be useful, out of 
caprice, because a part of what you 
expected has not been realised. A horse 
is stolen, and the man, in ill-temper, 
throws away saddle and bridle. 


Manchester. ‘The first syllable is 
the Friesic »an (a common); and the 
word means the Roman encampment on 
the common. 


Manchester Poet. 
(1803-1874). 

Man’cipie (4). A purveyor of food, 
a clerk of the kitchen, Chaucer has a 
‘“‘manciple’? in his Canterbury Tales, 
(Latin manceps, mancipis.) 


(See 


Charles Swain 


Mandamus 


802 


Manfred 


Mandamus (Latin). <A writ of 
King’s Bench, commanding the person 
named to do what the writ directs. The 
first word is ‘‘ Mandamus’? (We com- 
mand, .. .). 


Manda’/na. A stock name in heroic 
romance, which generally represents the 
fate of the world turning on the caprice 
of some beautiful Mandana or δίας τα. 


Mandarin’ is not a Chinese word, 
but one given by the Portuguese colon- 
ists at Maca’o to the officials called by the 
natives Ahiouping (3 syl.) It is from 
the verb mandar (to command). 

The nine ranks of mandarins are distin- 
guished by the button in their cap :— 
1, ruby; 2, coral; 3, sapphire; 4, an 
opaque blue stone; 4, crystal; 6, an 
opaque white shell; 7, wrought gold; 
8, plain gold ; and 9, silver. 

“The whole body of Chinese mandarins consists 
of twenty-seven embers. They are appointed 
for (1) imperial birth; (2) long service ; (3) illus- 
trious deeds ; (4) knowledge ; (5) ability ; (6) zeal; 
(7) nobility ; and (8) aristocratic hirth.’—Gutzlay. 

Mandeville (Bernard de). <A licen- 
tious Deistical writer, author of Zhe 
Virgin Unmasked, and Free Thoughts on 
Religion, in the reign of George II. 


Mandouw'sians. Very short swords. 
So called from a certain Spanish noble- 
man of the house of Mendo’sa, who 
brought them into use. (See SwoRDs,) 


Man'‘drabul. fiom gold to nothing, 
like Man'drabul’s offering. Mandrabul, 
having found a gold-mine in Samos, 
offered to Juno a golden ram for the 
discovery; next year he gave a silver 
one, then a brazen one, and in the fourth 
year nothing. The proverb ‘‘ to bring a 
noble to ninepence, and ninepence to 
nothing,’’ carries the same meaning. 


Mandrake. The root of the mandrag’- 
ora often divides itself in two, and pre- 
sents a rude appearance of a man. In 
ancient times human figures were often 
cut out of the root, and wonderful 
virtues ascribed to them. It was used 
to produce fecundity in women (Gen. 
xxx, 14-16). Some mandrakes cannot 
be pulled from the earth without pro- 
ducing fatal effects, so a cord used to 
be fixed to the root, and round a dog’s 
neck, and the dog being chased drew 
out the mandrake and died. Another 
superstition is that when the mandrake 
is uprooted it utters a scream, in ex- 
planation of which Thomas Newton, in 
his Herball to the Bible, says, ‘It is 
supposed to be a creature having life, 
engendered under the earth of the seed 


of some dead person put to death for 

murder.”’ 

“ Shrieks like mandrakes’ torn out of the earth.” 
Shakespeare; Romeo and Juliet, iv. 3. 

Mandrakes called love-apples. From 
the old notion that they excited amorous 
inclinations ; hence Venus is called Man- 
dragori'tis, and the Emperor Julian, in 
his epistles, tells Calix’enés that he drank 
its juice nightly as a love-potion, 

He has eaten mandrake. Said of a 
very indolent and sleepy man, from the 
narcotic and stupefying properties of the 
plant, well known to the ancients. 

“Give me to drink mandragora .. . 
That I might sleep out this great cap of time 
My Antony is away.” ᾿ 
Shakespeare: Antony and Cleopatra, 1. 5, 

Mandrake. Another superstition con- 
nected with this plant is that a small 
dose makes a person vain of his beauty, 
and conceited; but that a large dose 
makes him an idiot. 


Mandricar’do. King of Tartary, 
or Scythia, son of Ag’rican. He wore 
Hector’s cuirass, married Dor’alis, and 
was slain in single combat by Roge’ro. 
(Orlando Innamorato, and Orlando 
Furioso.) 


Manduce (2syl.). The idol Gluttony, 
venerated by the Gastrol’aters, people 
whose god was their belly. 


_“It is a monstrous... figure, fit to frighten 
little children ; its eyes are biggerthan its belly, 
and its head larger than all the rest of its body, 
... having a goodly pair of wide jaws, lined with 
two rows of teeth, which, by the magic of a small 
twine ...are made to clash, chatter, and rattle 
against the other,as the jaws of St. Clement's 
dragon (called graul/i) on St. Mark’s procession 
at Metz.”—Rabelais : Pantagruel, iv. 59. 

Manes. Zo appease his Manes. To 
do when a person is dead what would 
have pleased him or was due to him 
when alive. The spirit or ghost of the 
dead was by the Romans called his 
Manes, which never slept quietly in the 
grave so long as survivors left its Wishes 
unfulfilled. The 19th February was the 
day when all the living sacrificed to the 
shades of dead relations and friends. 

Manes (2 syl.) from the old word manis, i.e. 
“bonus,” “quod eos venerantes manes yocarent, 
ut Greci chréstous.” (Bee Lucretius, ili.52.) It can- 
not come from ma@neo, to remain (because this 
part of man remains after the body is dead), he- 
cause the ὦ 15 long. 

In the Christian Church there is an 


All Souls’ Day. 


Manfred. Count Manfred. son of 
Count Sig’ismund, sold himself to the 
Prince of Darkness, and had seven 
spirits bound to do his bidding, viz. 
the spirits of ‘‘earth, ocean, air, night, 
mountains, winds,’ and the star of his 


Manger 803 


Manor 


— 


own destiny. He was wholly without 
human sympathies, and lived in splendid 
solitude among the Alpine mountains. 
He once loved the Lady As’tarte (2 syl.) 
who died, but Manfred went to the hall 
of Arima’nés to see and speak to her 
phantom, and was told that he would 
die the following day. The next day 
the Spirit of his Destiny came to sum- 
mou him; the proud count scornfully 
dismissed it, sak died. (Byron : Man- 
fred.) 

Manger or Manger le Morceau. To 
betray, to impeach, to turn king’s evi- 
dence. The allusion is to the words of 
Jesus to the beloved disciple—he will 
be the traitor ‘to whom I shall give a 
sop when I have dipped it,” ete. (John 
xili. 26.) 

Manheim, in Scandinavian myth- 
ology, is the abode of man. Vanirheim 
is the abode of the Vanir. Jotunheim 
is the abode of the giants. Gladsheim is 
the abode of Odin. MHelheim is the 
abode of Hela (goddess of death). Mus- 
pellheim is the abode of elemental fire. 
Niflheim is hell. Svartalheim is the 
abode of the dwarfs. 


Ma’‘ni, The sonof Mundilfori; taken 
to heaven by the gods to drive the moon- 
car. He is followed by a wolf, which, 
when time shall be no more, will devour 
both Mani and his sister Sol. 


Mani, Manes, or Manichzus. The 
greatest Persian painter, who lived in 
the reign of Shah-pour (Sapor’I.). It 
is said his productions rivalled nature. 
(226-274.) 


Maniche’ans or Manichees. <A 
religious sect founded by Mani or Mani- 
cheus, the Persian painter. It was an 
amalgamation of the Magian and Chris- 
tian religions, interlarded with a little 
Buddhism. In order to enforce his re- 
ligious system, Mani declared himself 
to be the Paraclete or Comforter pro- 
mised by Jesus Christ. 


Manitou. 
Setish. 


Manlian Orders. Overstrained se- 
verity. Manlius Torqua’tus, the Roman 
consul, gave orders in the Latin war 
that no Roman, on pain of death, should 
engage in single combat; but one of the 
Latins provoked young Manlius by re- 
peated insults, and Manlius slew him. 
When the young man took the spoils to 
his father, Torqua’tus ordered him to be 
put to death for violating the commands 
of his superior officer. - 


The American - Indian 


Manly, in the Plain Dealer, by Wy- 
cherly. He is violent and uncouth, but 
presents an excellent contrast to the 
hypocritical Olivia (q.v.). 

My. Manly, in The Provoked Husband, 
by Vanbrugh and Cibber. 


Manna (Exodus xvi. 15), popularly 
said to be a corrupt form of wan-hu 
(What is this?) The marginal reading 
gives—‘‘ When the children of Israel 
saw it [the small round thing like hoar- 
frost on the ground], they said to one 
another, What is this? for they wist not 
what it was.” 

“And the house of Israel called the name 
thereof manna. It was like coriander seed, 
white ; and the taste of it was like wafers made 
with honey.” (Verse 31.) 

Manna of St. Nicholas of Bari. 
The name given to a colourless and 
tasteless poison, sold in phials by a 
woman of Italy named Tofani, who con- 
fessed to having poisoned six hundred 
persons by this liquid. 


Man'‘nering. Colonel or Guy Man- 
nering ; Mrs. Mannering, née Sophia 
Wellwood, his wife; Julia Mannering, 
their daughter, who married Captain 
Bertram ; Sir Paul Mannering, the 
colonel’s uncle. In Sir Walter Scott’s 
novel of Guy Manneruig. 


Mannington (George). <A criminal 
executed at Cambridge in 1476. It is 
said that he could cut off a horse’s head 
at a single blow. 

“Tt is in imitation of Mannington’s—he that 
was hanged at Cambridge—that cut off the 
horse’s head at a blow.”—Eastwurd Ho! 

Manningtree (1.552). Noted for its 
Whitsun fair, where an ox was roasted 
whole. Shakespeare makes Prince Henry 
call Falstaff ‘‘ a roasted Manningtree ox, 
with the pudding in his belly.”” (1 Hevry 
TYP, ii. 4.) 

“You shall have a slave eat more ata meale 
than ten of the guard; and drink more in two 
days than all Manningtree doesat a Witsun-ale.” 

Mano’a. The fabulous capital of El 
Dora'do, the houses of which city were 
said to be roofed with gold. 


Manon Lescaut. A novel by the 
Abbé Prevost. It is the history of a 
young man possessed of many brilliant 
and some estimable qualities, but, being 
intoxicated by a fatal attachment, he is 
hurried into the violation of every rule 
of conduct, and finally prefers the life of 
a wretched wanderer, with the worthless 
object of his affection, to all the advan- 
tages presented by nature and fortune. 


Manor, Deimesne. ‘*Demesne land”’ 
is that near the demesne or dwelling 


Mansard Roof 


804 


Many 


(domus) of the lord, and which he kept 
for his own use. Manor land was all 
that remained (manco), which was let 
to tenants for mouey or service. 

In some manors there was common land also, 
ie. land belonging in common to two or more 
persons, to the whole village, or to certain natives 
of the village. 

Mansard Roof, also called the curb 
roof. A roof in which the rafters, in- 
stead of forming a A, are broken on each 
side into an elbow. It was devised by 
Francois Mansard, the French architect, 
to give height to attics. (1598-1666.) 


Mansfield. Zhe Miller of Mansfield. 
Henry 11. was one day hunting, and lost 
his way. He met a miller, who took 
him home to his cottage, and gave him 
a bed with his son Richard. Next 
morning the courtiers tracked the king 
to the cottage, and the miller discovered 
the rank of his guest. The king, in 
merry mood, knighted his host, who 
thus became Sir John Cockle. On St. 
George’s Day, Henry II. invited the 
miller, his wife and son to a royal ban- 
quet, and after being amused with their 
rustic ways, made Sir John ‘‘ overseer of 
Sherwood Forest, with a salary of £200 
a year.” (Percy : Reliques.) 


Mansion. The Latin *mansio was 
simply a tent pitched for soldiers on 
the march; and, hence a ‘‘day’s jour- 
ney’ (Pliny, xii. 14). Subsequently the 
word was applied to a roadside house 
for the accommodation of strangers. 
(Suetonius: Tit. 10). 


Mantaccini. A charlatan who pro- 
fessed to restore the dead to life. 


Mantali’ni (Jadame). A fashionable 
milliner near Cavendish Square. Her hus- 
band, noted for his white teeth, minced 
oaths, and gorgeous morning gown, is 
an exquisite man-milliner, who lives on 
his wite’s earnings. (Dickens: Nicholas 
Nickleby.) 


Mantel-piece (4). A shelf over a 
fire-place, originally used for drying 
clothes. 

“Around the spacious cupola, over the Italian 
fire-places, is a ledge to which are affixed pegs, on 
which postillions hung their wet clothes to dry. 
We call the shelves over the fire-places ‘mantel- 
pieces. but we no longer hang our mantles on 
them to dry."—Memoirs of Cal. Macaroni. 

Mantible (Bridge of) consisted of 
thirty arches of black marble, and was 
guarded by ‘‘a fearful huge giant,” 
slain by Sir Fierabras. 


Man’tiger. An heraldic monster, 
having a tiger’s body, and the head of 
an old man with long spiral horns, 


Mantle of Fidelity (Zhe). A little 
boy one day presented himself before 
King Arthur, and showed him a curious 
mantle, ‘‘ which would become no wife 
that was not 168]. Queen Guinever 
tried it, but it changed from green to 
red, and red to black, and seemed rent 
into shreds. Sir Kay’s lady tried it, but 
fared no better; others followed, but 
only Sir Cradock’s wife could wear it. 
(Perey : Reliques.) (See CHastiry.) 


Mantra or Mintra (Persian myth- 
ology). <A spell, a talisman, by which a 
person holds sway over the elements and 
spirits of all denominations. (JV7i/ford.) 


Man'tuan Swain, Swan, or Bard 
(The). Virgil, a native of Mantua, in 
Italy. Besides his great Latin epic, he 
wrote pastorals and Georgics. 


Ma‘nucodia’ta (716). An old name 
for a bird of paradise. It is a corrup- 
tion of the Malay manute-dewata, the 
bird of the gods. 


“Less pure the footless fowl of heaven, that 
never 
Rests upon earth, but on the wing for ever. 
Hovering o'er flowers, their fragrant food 
inhale, 
Drink the descending dew upon the way: 
And sleep aloft while float‘'ng on the gale.” 
Southey: Curse of Kehama, xxi. 6. 


Man'umit. To set free; properly 
“to send from one’s hand” (6. manu 
mittere). One of the Roman ways of 
freeing a slave was to take him before 
the chief magistrate and say, ‘‘I wish 
this man to be free.’? The lictor or 
master then turned the slave round in a 
circle, struck him with a rod across the 
cheek, and let him go, 


Manure (2 syl.) means hand-work 
(French, main-wuvre), tillage by manual 
labour. It now means the dressing ap- 
plied to lands. _ Milton uses it in its 
original sense in Paradise Lost, iv. 628 :— 


“Yon flowery arbours,... With branches over- 
grown 3 
That mock our scant manuring.* 


** In book xi. 26 he says, the repent- 
ant tears of Adam brought forth better 
fruits than all the trees of Paradise that 
his hands manured in the days of in- 
nocence. 


Many. (See Too Many.) 


Many a Mickle makes a Muckle, 
or Many a little makes a mickle. Little 
and often fills the purse. (See LiTTir.) 

French: ‘‘ Les petits ruisseaux font 
de grandes riviéres;”’ ‘‘ Plusieurs peu 
font un beaucoup.” 

Greek : 

‘ Εἰ yap κεν καὶ σμικρὸν emt σμικρῷ καταθεῖο, 

Καὶ θαμὰ τοῦτ᾽ ἔρδοις, τάχα κεν μέγα καὶ TO 

γένοιτο." Hesiod: Works and Days, 359, etc. 


Many Men 


80 


5 Marching Watch 


Many Men, Many Minds. 

Latin: ‘*Quot homines tot senten- 
tie ’’ (Terence). 

French: ‘* Autant @hommes, autant 
@avis;’’ “Tant de gens, tant de 
guises ;”? ‘‘Autant de testes, autant 
dopinions.”” 

Mao/’ri (716). The indigenous in- 
habitants of New Zealand. It is a New 
Zealand word, meaning natives, (Plur., 
Mao'ris.) 

Ma’ra. A goblin that seized upon 
men asleep in their beds, and took from 
them all speech and motion. 


Mar’abou Feathers. Feathers of 
the bird so called, used by ladies for 
head-gear. There are two species of 
marabou stork, which have white 
feathers beneath their wings and tail 
especially prized. The word ‘‘marabou”’ 
means ‘‘ devoted to God,”’ and the stork 
is a sacred bird. (Sze MARABUTS.) 


Mara’bout (in French). Α big- 
bellied kettle; a very large sail; an 
ugly baboon of a man; also a sort of 
plume at one time worn by ladies. The 
‘““marabout hat’? was a hat adorned 
with a marabou feather. 


Mara’buts. An Arab tribe which, in 
1075, founded a dynasty, put an end to 
by the Almohads. They form a priestly 
order greatly venerated by the common 
people. The Great Marabut ranks next 
tothe king. (Arabic, marabath, devoted 
to God.) 


Marana'tha (Syriac, the Lord will 
cone—i.e. to execute judgment). A 
form of anathematising among the Jews. 
The Romans called a curse or impreca- 
tion a devotion—i.e. given up to some 
one of the gods. 


Maravedi (4 syl.). A very small 
Spanish coin, less than a farthing. 


Marbles. The Avrunde'lian Marbles. 
Some thirty-seven statues and 128 busts 
with inscriptions, collected by W. Petty, 
in the reign of James I., in the island 
of Paros, and purchased of him by Lord 
Arundel, who gave them to the Univer- 
sity of Oxford in 1627. 

The Elgin marbles. A collection of 
basso-relievos and fragments of statuary 
from the Parthenon of Athens (built by 
Phid'ias), collected by Thomas, Lord 
Elgin, during his mission to the Ottoman 
Porte in 1802. They were purchased 
from him by the British Government, in 
1816, for £35,000, and are now in the 


British Museum. (The gin of ‘‘ Elgin”’ 
is like the -gin of ‘‘ begin.’’) 

Money and marbles, Cash and furni- 
ture. 

Mareassin (Zhe Prince). From the 
Italian fairy-tales by Straparola, called 
Nights, translated into French in 1585. 


Marcella. A fair shepherdess whose 
story forms an episode in Don Quixote. 


Marcelli’‘na. The daughter of Rocco, 
jailor of the state prison of Seville. She 
falls in love with Fide’lio, her father’s 
servant, who turns out to be Leonora, 
the wife of the state prisoner Fernando 
Florestan. (Deethoven : Fidelio.) 


Marcellus (in Dibdin’s Libliomania, 
a romance,) is meant for Edmund 
Malone, the well-known editor of 
Shakespeare’s works (1811). 

March. He may be a rogue, but hes 
no fool on the march. (Freuch, sur la 
marche likewise.) 

March borrows three days from April. 
(See BORROWED Days.) 

March Dust. 4 bushel of March 
dust is worth a king’s ransom. Accord- 
ing to the Anglo-Saxon laws, the fine of 
murder was a sliding scale proportioned 
to the rank of the person killed. The 
lowest was £10, and the highest £60; 
the former was the ransom of a churl, 
and the latter of a king. 


March Hare. Mad asa March have. 
Hares in March are very wild; it is 
their rutting time. (See Hare.) 

Marches (boundaries) is the Saxon 
meare ; but marsh, a meadow, is the 
Saxon mersc, anciently written marash, 
the French marais, and our morass. 
The other march is the origin of our 
marquis, the lord of the march. The 
boundaries between England and Wales, 
and between England and Scotland, 
were called ‘‘ marches.”’ 

tiding the marches—i.e. beating the 
bounds of the parish (Scotch). 

Marchaundes Tale (in Chaucer) is 
substantially the same as the first Latin 
metrical tale of Adolfus, and is not 
unlike a Latin prose tale given in the 
appendix of T. Wright’s edition of 
sop’ s Fables. (See January and May.) 


Marching Watch. A splendid pa- 
geant on Midsummer Eve, which 
Henry VIII. took Jane Seymour to 
Mercers’ Hall to see. In 1547 Sir John 
Gresham, the Lord Mayor, restored the 
pageant, which had been discontinued 
on account of the sweating sickness. 


»  Marchington 806 Mare's Nest 
Marchington (Staffordshire). Mardonius (Captain), in A King or 


Famous for a crumbling short cake. 
Hence the saying that a man or woman 
of crusty temper is ‘‘as short as Mar- 
chington wake-cake,”’ 


Marchioness (Ziv). The half- 
starved girl-of-all-work in The Old 
Curiosity Shop, by Charles Dickens. 


Marchpane. A confection of pis- 
tachio-nuts, almonds, and sugar; a 
corruption of the French masse-pain. 
(Italian, marzapan.) 


Mar’cionites (3 syl.). An ascetic 
Gnostic sect, founded by Marcion in the 
second century. 


Marek (William de la), or ‘*The 
Wild Boar of Ardennes,’? A French 
nobleman, called in French history 
Sanglicr des Ardennes, imtroduced by 
Sir Walter Scott in Quentin Dirward 
(1446-1485). 


Marcley Hill (Herefordshire), on 
February 7th, 1571, at six o’clock in the 
evening, ‘‘ roused itself with a roar, and 
by seven next morning had moved forty 
paces.’’ It kept on the move for three 
days, carrying with it sheep in their 
cotes, hedge-rows, and trees ; overthrew 
Kinnaston chapel, and diverted two 
high roads at least 200 yards from their 
former route. The entire mass thus 
moved consisted of twenty-six acres of 
land, and the entire distance moved was 
400 yards. (Speed; Herefordshire.) 


Marcos de Obregon. The model of 
Gil Blas, in the Spanish romance en- 
titled Relaciones de la Vida del Escudero 
Marcos de Obregon, 


Marcos‘ians. A branch of the 
Gnostics ; so-called from the Egyptian 
Marcus. ‘They are noted for their 
apocryphal books and religious fables. 


Mardi Gras. The last day of the 
Lent carnival in France, when the prize 
ox is paraded through the principal 
streets of Paris, crowned with a fillet, 
and accompanied with mock priests and 
a band of tin instruments in imitation of 
a Roman sacrificial procession. 

“ Tous les ans on vient de la ville 
Les marchands dans nos cantons, 
Pour les mener aux Tuileries, 
Au Mardi-Gras, devant le roi, 
τος, Et puit ies vendre aux boucheries, 

Jaime Jeanne ma femme, eh, ha! j'aimerais mienx 

La yo'r mourir que voir mourir mes beeufs.” 
Pierre Dupont : Les Beufs. 

Mardle. To waste time in gossip. 
(Anglo-Saxon, mathel-ian, to talk; 
methel, a discourse. ) 


No King, by Be.umont and Fletcher, 


Mare. The Cromlech at Gorwell, 
Dorsetshire, is called the White Mare ; 
the barrows near Hambleton, the Grey 
Mare. 

Away the mare—i.e. Off with the blue 
devils, good-bye to care. This mare is 
the incubus called the nightmare. 

To cry the mare (Herefordshire and 
Shropshire). In harvesting, when the 
in-gathering is complete, a few blades 
of corn left for the purpose have their 
tops tied together. The reapers then 
place themselves at a certain distance, 
and fling their sickles at the ‘ mare.’’ 
He who succeeds in cutting the knot 
cries out “1 have her!’’ ‘‘ What have 
you?”? ‘‘A mare.’’ ‘ Whose is she?’ 
The name of some farmer whose field 
has been reaped is here mentioned. 
‘*“Where will you send her?’’ The 
name of some farmer whose corn is not 
yet harvested is here given, and then all 
the reapers give a final shout. 

To win the mare or lose the halter—i.e, 
to play double or quits. 

The grey mare is the better horse. (See 
GREY MARE.) 

The two-legged mare, The gallows. 

Shanks’s mare. One’s legs or shanks. 

Money will make the mare to go. 


“* Will you lend me your mare to goa mile?" 
‘No, she is lame leaping over a stile,’ 
‘But if you will her to me spare, 
You shall have money for your mare.’ 
‘Oh, ho! say you 80 ? 
Money will make the mare to go.’ * 
Old Glees and Catches. 
Whose 


mare’s dead 2 What’s the 
matter? Thus, in 2 Henry 1}΄.. when 
Sir John Falstaff sees Mistress Quickly 
with the sheriff's officers, evidently in a 
state of great discomposure, he cries, 

“How now 2? Whose mare’s dead? What's the 
matter ?"'—Act ii. 1. 

Mare’s Nest. 70 find a imare’s nest 
is to make what you suppose to be a 
great discovery, but which turns out to 
be all moonshine. 

“Why dost thou laugh ? 
What mare’s neSt hast thou found?” 
Beaumont and Fletcher: Bonduca, ¥. 2. 

“ Are we to believe that the governor, executive 
council, the officers, and merchants have heen 
fluding mare's nests only ?"—Tie Times. 

N.B. In some parts of Scotland they 
use instead a skate’s nest. In Glouces- 
tershire a long-winded tale is called a 
Horse-nest. Yn Cornwall they say You 
have found a wee’s nest, and are laughing 
over the eggs. In Devon, nonsense is 
called a blind mare’s nest. Holinshed 
calls a gallows a foul’s nest (iii.). In 
French the corresponding phrase is 


Mareotic Luxury 


807 


Margate 


« Nid de lapin; Nid @une sowris dans 
Voreille Wun chat.’ (See CHAT.) 


Mareotic Luxury. The γα Ma- 
reotica mentioned by Ovid (Metamor- 
phoses, ix. 73) produced the white grapes, 
from which was made the favourite 
beverage of Cleopatra, and mention of 
which is made both by Horace (Odes, i. 
37) and Virgil (@eorgics, ii. 91). The 
Arva Mareotica were the shores of Lake 
Meeris, and ‘‘ Mareotic luxury ”’ is about 
equal to ‘‘ Sybaritic luxury.” 


Marfi'sa. Name of an Indian queen 
in Bojardo’s Orlando Innamorato, and 
in Ariosto’s Orlando Furioso. 

Marfo’rio. A pasquinade (.1.). 

Margan Monastery (Ji-gister of), 
1066 to 1232, published in Gale, 1687. 


Margaret, Queen of Denmark, Nor- 
way, and Sweden, called the ‘‘ Northern 
Semiramis ᾽᾽ (1353, 1887-1412). 

Margaret. A simple, uncultured girl 
of wonderful witchery, seduced, at the 
age of fifteen, by Faust. She drowns 
in a pool the infant of her shame, was 
sent to prison, where she lost her reason, 
and was ultimately condemned to death, 
Faust (whom she calls Henry) visits her 
in prison, and urges her to make her 
escape with him ; but she refuses, dies, 
and is taken to heaven; but Mephis- 
topheles carried off Faust to the In- 
ferno. (Goethe: Faust.) 

Ladye Margaret. 
Teviot,’’ daughter of the Duchess Mar- 
garet and Lord Walter Scott, of Brank- 
some Hall. She was beloved by Baron 
Henry of Cranstown, whose family had 
a deadly feud with that of Scott. One 
day the elfin page of Lord Cranstown 
inveigled the heir of Branksome Hall, 
then a lad, into the woods, where he fell 
into the hands of the Southerners; 
whereupon 3,000 of the English marched 
against the castle of the widowed 
duchess ; but, being told by a spy that 
Douglas with 10,000 men was coming 
to the rescue, they agreed to decide 
by single combat whether the boy was 
to become King Edward’s page, or be 
delivered up to his mother. The cham- 
pions to decide this question were to be 
Sir Richard Musgrave on the side of the 
English, and Sir William Deloraine on 
the side of the Scotch. In the combat 
the English champion was slain, and 
the boy was delivered to the widow; 
but it then appeared that the antagonist 
was not William of Deloraine, but Lord 
Cranstown, who claimed and received 


“The Flower of 


the hand of fair Margaret as his re- 
ward. (Scott: Lay of the Last Minstrel.) 

Lady Margaret's preacher. A preacher 
who has to preach a Concio ad clerun 
before the University, on the day pre- 
ceding Easter Term. This preachership 
was founded in 1503 by Lady Margaret, 
mother of Henry VII. 

Lady Margaret professor, A pyro- 
fessor of divinity in the University of 
Cambridge. This professorship was 
founded in 1502 by Lady Margaret, 
mother of Henry VII. These lectures 
are given for the ‘‘ voluntary theo- 
logical examination,’’ and treat upon 
the Fathers, the Liturgy, and the 
priestly duties, (See NORRISIAN.) 


Margaret (S/.). The chosen type of 
female innocence and meekness, 

In Christian art she is represented as 
a young woman of great beauty, bearing 
the martyr’s palm and crown, or with 
the dragon as an attribute. Sometimes 
she is delineated as coming from the 
dragon’s mouth, for the legend says 
that the monster swallowed her, but on 
making the sign of the cross he suffered 
her to quit his maw. 

St. Margaret and the dragon. Olyb'ius, 
Governor of Antioch, captivated by the 
beauty of St. Margaret, wanted to marry 
her, and, as she rejected him with scorn, 
threw her into a dungeon, where the 
devil came to her in the form of a 
dragon. Margaret held up the cross, 
and the dragon fled. 

St. Margaret is the patron saint of the 
ancient borough of Lynn Regis, and on 
the corporation seal she is represented 
as standing on a dragon and wounding 
it with the cross. The inscription of 
the seal is ‘‘SVB * MARGARETA * TERITUR * 
DRACO ‘ STAT ᾿ CRUCE * LETA.”” 


Margaret. A magpie. 


Margaret or Marguerite (petite). 
The daisy ; so called from its pearly 
whiteness, marguerite being the French 
for a pearl. (Sve MARGUERITE.) 

“ The daise, a flour white and redde, _ 
In French called ‘la belle Marguerite.’ ” 

Margarine Substitute (4). A 
mere imitation, Just asmargarine 1s an 
imitation and substitute of butter. 

“Between a real etching and that margarine 
substitute a pen-and-ink drawing ... the differ- 
ence is this: the margarine substitute 1s essen- 
tially flat... but true etching is in sensible 
relief.’—Nineteenth Century, May 1891, p. 780. 

Margate (Kent), is the sea-gate or 
opening. (Latin, mare; Anglo-Saxon, 


| mere, ete.) 


Margherita 


Margherit’'a di Valois married 
Hlenri the Béarnais, afterwards Henri 
IV. of France. During the wedding 
solemnities, Catherine de Medicis devised 
the massacre of the French Protestants, 
and Margherita was at a ball during 
the dreadful enactment of this device. 
(Meyerbeer : Gli Ugonotti, an opera.) 

Margin. In all our ancient English 
books, the commentary is printed in the 
margin. Hence Shakespeare: 


“ His face’s own margent did quote such amazes,” 
Love's Labour's Lost, ii. 1. 


“JT knew you must be edified by the margent.”— 
Hamlet, Vv. 2. 

“She... could pick no meaning... 

Writ in the glassy margents of such books.” 
Shakespeare: Rape of Lucrece, stanza 15. 

Margites. The first dunce whose 
name has been transmitted to fame, His 
rivals are Codrus and Flecknoe, 

“Margites was the name... whom Antiquity 
recordeth to have been dunce the first.’—Pope : 
Dunciad (Martinus Scriblerus). 

Marguerite des Marguerites [the 
pearl of pearls}. So Francois called his 
sister (Marguerite de Valois), authoress 
of the Heptameron. She married twice: 
first, the Duc d’Alencon, and then Henri 
d’Albret, king of Navarre, and was the 
mother of Henry IV. of France. Henri 
{IV.] married a Marguerite, but this 
Marguerite was the daughter of Henri 
II. and Catherine de Medicis. The 
former befriended the Huguenots, the 
latter was a rigid Catholic, like her 
mother. 


Margutte (3 syl.). A giant ten feet 
high, who died of laughter on seeing a 
monkey pulling on his boots. (μοὶ : 
Morgante Maggiore.) (See DEATH FROM 
STRANGE CAUSES.) 


Mari’a. Heroine of Donizetti's opera 
La Figlia del Reggimento. She first 
appears as a vivandiére or French sutler- 
girl, for Sulpizio (the sergeant of the 11th 
regiment of Napoleon’s Grand Army) 
had found her after a battle, and the 
regiment adopted her as their daughter. 
Tonio, a Tyrolese, saved her life and fell 
in love with her, and the regiment 
agreed to his marriage provided he 
joined the regiment. Just at this junc- 
ture the marchioness of Berkenfield 
claims Maria as her daughter ; the claim 
is allowed, and the vivandiere is obliged 
to leave the regiment for the castle of 
the marchioness. After a time the 
French regiment takes possession of 
Berkenfield Castle, and Tonio has risen 
to the rank of field officer. He claims 
Maria as his bride, but is told that her 
mother has promised her hand to the son 


808 


Marines 


of a duchess. Maria promises to obey 
her mother, the marchioness relents, and 
Tonio becomes the accepted suitor. 

Maria. <A fair, quick-witted, amiable 
maiden, whose banns were forbidden by 
the curate who published them; in con- 
sequence of which she lost her reason, 
and used to sit by the roadside near 
Moulines, playing vesper hymns to the 
Virgin all day long. She led by a ribbon 
a little dog named Silvio, of which she 
was very jealous, for she had first made 
a goat her favourite, but the goat had 
forsaken her. (Sterne: Sentimental 
Journey.) 


Maria There’sa. Wife of Sancho 
Panza. She is sometimes called Maria, 
sometimes Teresa Panza. (Don Quixote.) 


Mariamites (4 syl.). Worshippers 
of Mary, the mother of Jesus. They 
said the Trinity consisted of God the 
Father, God the Son, and Mary the 
mother of God. 


Marian’a. One of the most lovable 
of Shakespeare’s characters. Her plead- 
ing for Angelo is unrivalled. (Measvre 
Sor Measure.) 

Tennyson has two Marianas among 
his poems, 

Mariana. Daughter of the king of 
Sicily, beloved by Sir Alexander, one of 
the three sons of St. George, the patron 
saint of England. Sir Alexander married 
her, and was crowned king of Thessaly. 
(Seven Champions of Christendom, iii. 3.) 


Marigold. So called in honour of 
the Virgin Mary, and hence the intro- 
duction of marigold windows in lady 
chapels. (See MARYGOLD.) 


“ This riddle, Cuddy, if thou canst, explain... . 
What flower is that which bears the Virgin's 
name, 
The richest metal added to the same ?” 
Gay: Pastoral, 


Marina. Wife of Jacopo Fos’cari, 
son of the doge. (Byron: The Two 
Fos'cari.) 


‘ Marinda or Maridah. ‘The fair 
mistress of Haroun-al-Raschid, 


Marine (2 syl.). The female Marine. 
Hannah Snell, of Worcester, who took 
part in the attack on Pondicherry. She 
ultimately left the service and opened a 
public-house in Wapping (London), but 
retained her male attire (born 1728), 

* Doubts exist respecting the fact 
stated above. (See Notes and Queries, 
Dec, 3, 1892. 


Marines (2 syl.). Empty bottles. 
The marines were at one time looked 
down upon by the regular seamen, who 


Mariner’s Compass 809 


Mark Tapley 


considered them useless, like empty 
bottles. A marine officer was once din- 
ing at a mess-table, when the Duke of 
York said to the man in waiting, ‘‘ Here, 
take away these marines.’’ The officer 
demanded an explanation, when the 
duke replied, ‘‘They have done their 
duty, and are prepared to do it again.”’ 

Tell that to the marines. Tell that to 
greenhorns, and not to men who know 
better. Marines are supposed by sailors 
to be so green that they will swallow the 
most extravagant story. 

“Tell that to the marines, the s:ilors won't he- 
lieve it.’—Sir W. Scott: Redyauntlet, chap, xili. 

Mariner’s Compass. The /lewr-de-lis 
which ornaments the northern radius of 
the mariner’s compass was adopted out 
of compliment to Charles d’Anjou, whose 
device it was. He was the reigning 
king of Sicily when Flavio Gioja, the 
Neapolitan, made his improvements in 
this instrument. 


Marino Falie’ro. The forty-ninth 
doge or chief magistrate of the republic 
of Venice, elected 1354. A patrician 
named Michel Steno, having behaved 
indecently to some of the women assem- 
bled at the great civic banquet given by 
the doge, was kicked off the solajo by 
order of the Duke. In revenge he 
wrote upon the duke’s chair a scurrilous 
libel against the dogaressa. The insult 
was referred to the Forty, and the 
council condemned the young patrician 
to a month’s imprisonment. The doge, 
furious at this inadequate punishment, 
joined a conspiracy to overthrow the 
republic, under the hope and promise of 
being made a king. He was betrayed 
by Bertram, one of the conspirators, and 
was beheaded on the ‘‘Giant’s Stair- 
case,’’ the place where the doges were 
wont to take the oath of fidelity to the 
republic. (Byron - Marino Falie'vo.) 


Mariotte’s Law. At a given tem- 
perature, the volume of a gas 15 inversely 
as the pressure. So called from Ed. 
Mariotte, a Frenchman, who died 1684. 


Maritor’nes (Spanish, bad woman). 
A vulgar, ugly, stunted servant-wench, 
whom Don Quixote mistakes for a lord’s 
daughter, and her ‘“‘hair, rough as a 
horse’s tail,’’? his diseased imagination 
fancies to be ‘silken threads of finest 
gold.” (Cervantes : Don Quixote.) 

Marivaudage (4syl.). Animitation 
of the style of Marivaux (1688-1763). 
He wrote several comedies and novels. 
“Ὁ Tl tombe souvent dans une métaphysique 
alambiguée (far-fetched, over-strained] 


pour laquelle on a eréé le nom de marivau- 
dage.”’ 

“Ce qui constitue le marivaudage, cest une 
recherche affectee dans le style. une grande sub- 
tilité dans les sentiments, ct une grande complica- 
tion d‘intrigues.”—Bouwillet: Dict. Universel, etc. 

Marjoram. As «a pig loves marjoram. 
Not at all. Lucretius tells us (vi. 974), 
“ Amaricinum fugitat sus,” swine shun 
marjoram. The proverb is applied in 
somewhat this way: ‘* How did you like 
so-and-so?’’ Ans.: ‘‘ Well, as a pig 
loves marjoram.”’ 

Mark. 

God bless the mark ! 
of contempt or scorn, 


An ejaculation 
(See SAVE THE 


Mark.) 
“To be ruled by my conscience, I should stay 
with the Jew my master, who, God bless the 


mark ! is akind of devil.’—Shukespeare : Merchant 
of Venice, ii. 2. 

To make one’s mark. To distinguish 
oneself. He has written his name (or 
made his mark) on the page of history. 

Up to the mark. Generally used in 
the negative; as, ‘‘ Not quite up to the 
mark,’’ not good enough, not up to the 
standard fixed by the Assay office for 
gold and silver articles ; not quite well. 


Mark (4¢.), in Christian art, is repre- 
sented as being in the prime of life; 
sometimes habited as a bishop, and, as 
the historian of the resurrectiou, accom- 
panied by a winged lion (q.7.). He 
holds in his right hand a pen, and in his 
left the Gospel. (Sce LUKE.) 


Mark (Sir). A mythical king of 
Cornwall, Sir Tristram’s uncle. He 
lived at Tintag’el Castle, and married 
Is’olde the Fair, who was passionately 
enamoured of his nephew, Sir Tristram. 
The illicit loves of Isolde and Tristram 
were proverbial in the Middle Ages. 


Mark Banco. Aun _ hypothetical 
quantity of fine silver, employed as a 
money-valuer in the old Bank at Ham- 
burg, and used by the Hanseatic League. 
Deposits in gold and silver coins were 
credited in Marco Banco, and all bank- 
ing accounts were carried on in Marco 
Banco. The benefit was this: Marco 
Banco was invariable, but exchange 
varies every hour. The bank not only 
credited deposits by this unvarying 
standard, but paid withdrawals in the 
same way; so that it was a matter of no 
moment how exchange varied. I put 
£1,000 into the bank ; the money is not 
entered to my credit as £1,000, but so 
much Marco Banco. The same process 
was adopted on withdrawals also. 


Mark Tapley. Ever jolly, who re- 
cognises nothing creditable unless it is 


Mark Time 810 Markham 
overclouded by difficulties. (Charles the letter =s. (See Prtnrers’ 
Dickens: Martin Chuzzlewit.) peared 

- ilerow, to call attention to a 
Mark Time! Move the feet alter- ἂν ee ae a ον 


nately as in marching, but without 
advancing or retreating from the spot. 


Mark of the Beast (7c). To set 
the ‘‘mark of the beast’’ on an object 
or pursuit is to denounce it, to run it 
down as unorthodox. Thus, many 
persons set the mark of the beast on 
theatres, some on dancing, and others 
on gambling, races, cards, dice, ete. The 
allusion is to Revelation xvi. 2; xix, 23. 


Mark’s Eve (S/.). On St. Mark’s 
Eve all persons fated to be married or 
to die pass, in procession, the church 
porch, 

“Tis now,’ replied the village belle, 

‘St. Mark’s mysterious eve. ... 
The chosts of all whom Death shall doom 
Within the coming year 
Tn pale procession walk the gloom.” . . . 
J. Montgomery. 

Marks in Grammar and Printing. 

Printers’ marks on the first page of a 
sheet are called Signatures. (See 
LETTERS AT Foot oF PaG#.) 

Serifs are the strokes which finish off 
Roman letters, top and bottom. 
A, B, C, are “ block”’ letters, or 
“* sans serifs.”’ 

over the second of two vowels, as 
aérial, is called ‘‘ diseresis,’’ and in 
French, trema. 

An acute accent. In Greek it in- 
dicates a rise in the voice. It was 
not used till Greek became fami- 
liar to the Romans. 

\ A grave accent. In Greek it indi- 
cates a fall of the voice. It was 
not used till Greek became fami- 
liar to the Romans. 

over a vowel, as ὃ, ii, is called in 

German zweipunct. 

© over a yowel, as a, is called in 
Danish wnlauf. 

“A circumflex over the letter 2 (as 
Ofioro), in Spanish, is called a 
tilde (2 syl.). A circumflex in 
French indicates that a letter 
has been abstracted, as étve for 
“Cestre.” 

t between two hyphens in French, as 
parle-t-il 2 is called ‘“‘ ¢ ephel- 
cystic.’ (See N.) 

& The Tironian sign (g.v.). (See AND.) 

- Hyphen, as horse-guards. 

- joining a pronoun to its verb in 
French, as irai-je, donnait-on, is 
called le trait @union. 

» under the letter ὁ in French, is 
called a cedilla, and indicates that 


” 


/ 


§] A blind p, marks a new paragraph 
indirectly connected with pre- 
ceding matter. 

() Called parentheses, and 

[ ] Called brackets, separate some ex- 
planatory or collateral matter 
from the real sequence. 

, 18acomma; ; isa semicolon; : is a 
colon; . is a point or full stop. 

—or.... in the middle or at the end 
of a sentence is a break, and shows 
that something is suppressed. 


Marks of Gold and Silver. 

The date-mark on gold or silver articles 
is some letter of the alphabet indicating 
the year when the article was made. 
Thus, in the Goldsmith’s Company of 
London :— From 1716 to 1755 it was 
Roman capitals, beginning from A and 
following in succession year after year ; 
from 1746 to 1775 it was Roman small 
letters, a to u; from 1776 to 1796, 
Roman black letters, small, a to u; 
from 1796 to 1815, Roman capitals, A to 
U; from 1816 to 1835, Roman small 
letters ; from 1836 to 1855, Old English 
capitals ; from 1856 to 1875, Old English, 
small; 1876 to 1895, Roman capitals. 

The duty-mark on gold and_ silver 
articles is the head of the reigning 
sovereign, and shows that the duty has 
been paid, This mark is not now placed 
on watch-cases, ete. 

The Hall-mark, stamped upon gold 
and silver articles, is a leopard’s head 
crowned for London; three lions and a 
cross for York; a castle with two wings 
for Exeter; three wheat sheaves or a 
dagger for Chester; three castles for 
Newcastle ; an anchor for Birmingham ; 
a crown for Sheffield ; a castle and lion 
for Edinburgh ; a tree, salmon, and ring 
for Glasgow; Hibernia for Dublin, (Sze 
Hatt Mark, SILVER.) 

The Standard-mark of gold or silver 
is a lion passant for England ; a thistle 
for Edinburgh; a lion rampant for 
Glasgow ; and a harp crowned for 
Ireland. 


Market-penny (1). Money for re- 
freshments given to those who go to 
market. Now, however, it means a 
toll surreptitiously exacted by servants 
sent out to buy goods for their master. 


Markham (J/7's.). A nom de plone 
of Elizabeth Cartwright, afterwards 
Mrs. Penrose. 


Marl 811 


Marl. Latin, argill’; German, mar- 
gel; Spanish and Italian, manga; Ar- 
morie, arg ; Irish, marla ; Welsh, marl. 


Marlborough. Statutes of Marl- 
borough. Certain. laws passed in the 
reign of Henry III., by a parliament 
held in Marlborough Castle. (See Mat- 
BROUCK [Sen va-l'-en guerre}.) 


Marlborough Dog. 
Doe.) 


Marlow. Both Sir Charles Marlow 
and his son Young Marlow are char- 
acters in She Stoops to Conquer, by 
Goldsmith. Young Marlow is bashful 
before ladies, but easy enough before 
women of low degree. 


Mar'mion. Ralph de Wilton, being 
charged with treason, claimed to prove 
his innocence by the ordeal of battle, 
and, being overthrown by Lord Mar- 
mion, was supposed to be dead, but was 
picked up by a beadsman, who nursed 
him carefully; and, being restored to 
health, he went on a pilgrimage to 
foreign lands. Now, Lord Marmion was 
betrothed to Constance de Beverley; 
and De Wilton to Lady Clare, daughter 
of the Earl of Gloucester. When De 
Wilton was supposed to be dead, Lord 
Marmion proved faithless to Constance, 
and proposed to Clare, having an eye 
especially to her rich inheritance, Clare 
rejected his suit, and took refuge in the 
convent of St. Hilda, in Whitby ; Con- 
stance, on the other hand, took the veil 
in the convent of St. Cuthbert, in Holy 
Isle. In time, Constance eloped from 
the convent, but, being overtaken, was 
buried alive in the walls of a deep cell. 
In the meantime Lord Marmion was 
sent by Henry VIII. with a message to 
James IV. of Scotland, and stopped at 
the hall of Hugh de Heron for a night. 
Sir Hugh, at his request, appointed him 
a guide to conduct him to the king, and 
the guide wore the dress of a palmer. 
On his return, Lord Marmion hears 
that Lady Clare is in Holy Isle, and 
commands the abbess of Hilda to 
release her, that she may be placed 
under the charge of her kinsman, 
Fitz Clare, of Tantallon Hall. Here 
she meets De Wilton, the palmer-guide 
of Lord Marmion, Lord Marmion being 
killed at the battle of Flodden Field, De 
Wilton married Lady Clare. (Sir Walter 
Scott.) 

Lord Marmton, The hero of Scott's 
poem 80 called is a purely fictitious char- 
acter. There was, however, an historic 
family so called, descendants of Robert 


(See BLENHEIM 


Marpbisa 


de Marmion, a follower of the Conqueror. 
wko obtained the grant of Tamworth, 
and the manor of Scrivelby, in Lincoln- 
shire. 116 was the first royal champion, 
and his male issue ceased with Philip 
Marmion in the reign of Edward 1. Sir 
John Dymoke, who married Margery, 
daughter of Joan, the only surviving 
child of Philip, claimed the office and 
manor in the reign of Richard 11. ; they 
have remained in his male line ever since. 


Marmo Lunense. (Sve LUNA.) 


Ma’ro. Virgil, whose name was 
Publius Virgilius Maro, was born on the 
bauks of the river Mincio, at the village 
of Andes, near Mantua. (8.6. 70-19.) 

“ Sweet Maro’s muse, sun in inglorious rest, 

Had silent slept amid the Mincian reeds.” 
Thomson: Castle of Indotence, 

Maron or Marron (French). A cat’s- 
paw (ῳ.υ.). ‘‘ Se servir de la patte du 
chat pour tiver les marrons du feu ;”? in 
Italian, ‘‘ Cavarei marroni dal fuoco colla 
campa del gatto.”” 

“C'est ne se point commettre A fa‘re de Véclat 
Et tirer les marrons de la patte du chat.” 
DL’ ktourdi, iii. 7. 

Mar’onites (3 syl.). A Christian 
tribe of Syria in the eighth century ; so 
called from the monastery of Maron, on 
the slopes of Lebanon, their chief seat ; 
so called from John Maron, Patriarch of 
Antioch, in the sixth century. 


Maroon. A runaway slave sen’ to 
the Calabouco, or place where such slaves 
were vunished, as the Maroons of Brazil. 
Those of Jamaica are the offspring of 
runaways from the old Jamaica planta- 
tions or from Cuba, to whom, in 1738, the 
British Government granted a tract of 
land, on which they built two towns. 
The word is from the verb ‘‘ maroon,”’ to 
set a person on an inhospitable shore and 
leave him there (a practice common with 
pirates and buccaneers). The word is a 
corruption of Cimarron, a word applied 
by Spaniards to anything unruly, whether 
man or beast. (See Scott: Pirate, xxii.) 


Maroon (70). To set a man ona 
desert island and abandon him there. 
This marooning was often practised by 
pirates and buccaneers. (See above.) 


Maro’zia, duughter of Theodora. 
The infamous offspring of an infamous 
mother, of the ninth century. Her in- 
trigues have rendered her name prover- 
bial. By one she became the mother of 
Pope John XI. (See MESSALINA.) 


Marphi'sa (in Orlando Fuwrioso). 
Sister of Roge’ro, and a female knight 
of amazing prowess, She was brought 


Marplot 812 


Marrow-bones 


up by amagician, but, being stolen at the 
age of seven, was sold to the king of 
Persia. The king assailed her virtue 
when she was eighteen, but she slew him, 
and seized the crown. She came to Gaul 
to join the army of Ag’ramant, but 
hearing that Agramant’s father had 
murdered her mother Galacella, she en- 
tered the camp of Charlemagne, and was 
baptised. 

Marplot. A silly, cowardly, in- 
quisitive Paul Pry, in The Busybody, by 
Mrs. Centlivre. H. Woodward’s great 
part. 


Marque. (See LETTERS OF... . ) 


Marriage Knot (Zhe). The bond 
of marriage effected by the legal mar- 
riage service. The Latin phrase 15 xodus 
Herculéus, and part of the marriage ser- 
vice was for the bridegroom to loosen 
(solvére) the bride’s girdle, not to fiz it. 
In the Hindu marriage ceremony the 
brideg:1oom hangs aribbon on the bride’s 
neck and ties it in a knot. Before the 
knot is tied the bride’s father may refuse 
consent unless better terms are offered, 
but immediately the knot is tied the 
marriage is indissoluble. The Parsees 
bind the hands of the bridegroom with 
a sevenfold cord, seven being a sacred 
number. The ancient Carthaginians 
tied the thumbs of the betrothed with 
leather lace. See Nineteenth Century, 
Oct., 1893, p. 610. (4. Rogers.) 

* Around her neck they leave 
The marriage knot alone.” 
Southey : Curse of Kehana, 

“When first the marriage knot was tied 

Between my wife and me, 
Her age did mine as much exceed 
As three-times-three does three ; 
But when ten years and half ten years 
We man and wife had been, | 
Her age came then as near to mine 
As eight is to sixteen.” 

Ans.: 15 and 45 at marriage, 30 and 60 fifteen 
years afterwards. 

* The practice of throwing rice is also 

Ἂ to} 
Indian, 


“Hamilcar desired to unite them immediately 
by an indissoluble betrothal. In Salambo's hands 
was a lance, which she offered to Narr Havas. 
Their thumbs were then tied together by a leather 


D 


lace, and corn was thrown over their heads.”— 
Flaubert : Salambo, chap. xi. 

Marriage Plates. Sacred plates 
svith a circular well in the centre to hold 
sweetmeats. They were painted for 
bridal festivities by Maestro Georgio, 
Orazio Fontane, and other artists of 
Urbino and Gubbio, Pesaro and Pavia, 
Castelli and Savona, Faenza and Ferrara, 
and all the other art towns of Italy. 
These plates were hung upon the walls, 
and looked on with superstitious awe as 
household gods. They were painted in 


polychrome, and the chief design was 
some scriptural subject, like Rebecca 
and Isaac. 


Marriages. Carriers  vepublican 
marriages. A device of wholesale 
slaughter, adopted by Carrier, proconsul 
of Nantes, in the first French Revolution. 
It consisted in tying men and women 
together by their hands and feet, and 
casting them into the Loire. (1794.) 


Marriages. Close times of inarriages 
in the Catholic Church. 

(1) Ab Adventu usque ad Epiphaniam 
(from Advent to Epiphany). 

(2) A Septuagesima usque ad octavus 
Pasche inclusive (from Septuagesima to 
the eighth Easter). 

(3) A secunda feria in Rogationibus 
usque ad primam dominicam post Pen- 
tacosten (from the second feast in Roga- 
tion to the first Sunday after Pentecost 
exclusive). 

(Liber Sacerdotalis 
Ritum Sancte Romane 
Eeclesi@ ; 1537.) 


Marriages are Made in Heaven. 
This does not mean that persons in 
heaven ‘‘marry and are given in mar- 
riage,’’ but that the partners joined in 
marriage on earth were foreordained to 
be so united. As the French proverb 
move definitely expresses the idea, ‘‘ Les 
mariages se font au ciel et se consomment 
sur la terre.’ Andagain, ‘‘Les mariages 
sont écrits dans le ciel’ E. Hall (1499- 
1547) says, ‘‘ Consider the old proveybe 
to be true that saieth: Marriage is des- 
tinie.’’ Prov. xix. 14 says, “ἃ prudent 
wife is from the Lord.”’ 


Seeundian 
el Apostolice 


Marriages of Men of Genius. 
WIVES OF. . . .) 


Married Women take their hus- 
band’s surname. This was a Roman 
custom. Thus Julia, Octavia, etc., mar- 
ried to Pompey, Cicero, etc., would 
be called Julia of Pompey, Octavia of 
Cicero. Our married women are named 
in the same way, omitting ‘‘ of.’’ 


( See 


Marrow (Scotch) a mate, companion, 
friend. ‘‘ Not marrow ’’—that is, not a 
pair. The Latin word medu//a (marrow) 
is used in much the same way as ‘‘ mihi 
heres in medullis’”’ (Cicero) ; (very dear, 
my best friend, etc.). 

“ Busk ye, busk ye, my bonnie honnie bride, 

Busk ye, busk ye, my Winsome marrow.” 
The Braes of Yarrow. 
“One glove [or shoe] is not marrow to the other.” 

Landsdowne MS, 

Down on your 


Marrow-bones. 
That marrow 


marrow-bones, i.e, knees. 


Marrow Controversy 


in this phrase is not a corruption of 
“*Mary,’’ meaning the Virgin, is palpable 
from the analogous phrase, the marrow - 
bone stage—walking. The leg-bone is the 
marrow-bone of beef and mutton, and 
the play is on Marylebone (London). 


Marrow Controversy (Zhe). <A 
memorable struggle in Scotland between 
Puritanism and Presbyterianism; so 
called from a book entitled The Marrow 
of Modern Divinity, condemned by the 
General Assembly in 1720.  Abelli, 
Bishop of Rhodes, wrote the Medulla 
Theologica. 

Marrow-men. The twelve minis- 
ters who signed the remonstrance to the 
General Assembly tor condemning the 
evangelical doctrines of the ‘‘ Marrow.”’ 
(See Marrow ConTROVERSY.) 


Marry! An oath, meaning by Mary, 
the Virgin. 

“Yea, marry! you say truc."—Fore: Book of 
Martyrs. 

Marry Come Up! An exclamation 
of disapproval, about equal to ‘‘ Draw 
it mild!’? May Mary come up to my 
assistance, or to your discomfort ! 

“Marry come up, you suey jade !"—Nineteenth 
Century, November, 1892, p. 797. 

Mar’s Year. The year 1715, noted 
for the rebellion of the Earl of Mar. 

“ Auld uncle John wha wedlock’s joys, 

Sin Mar’s year did desire.” 
Burus : Halloween, 27. 

Mars, with the ancient alchemists, 
designated iron. 


Mars. Under this planet ‘‘is borne 
theves and robbers . . . nyght walkers 
and quarell pykers, bosters, mockers, 
and skoffers; and these men of Mars 
causeth warre, and murther, and 
batayle. They wyll be gladly smythes 
or workers of yron. . . lyers, gret 
swerers,... He is red and angry 
-.. ἃ great walker, and a maker of 
swordes and knyves, and a sheder of 
mannes blode ...and good to be a 
barboure and a blode letter, and to 
drawe tethe.”? (Compost of Ptholomeus.) 

Mars, in Camoén’s Lusiad, is “ divine 
fortitude ’’ personified. As Bacchus, 
the evil demon, is the guardian power 
of Mahometanism; so Mars or divine 
fortitude is the guardian power of 
Christianity. 

The Mars of Portugal. 
Albuquerque, Viceroy of India. 
1515.) 

Marseillaise (3 syl.). 
song of the French Revolution, 


Alfonso de 
(1452- 


The grand 
Claude 


813 


Marsiglio 


Joseph Rouget de Lisle, an arfillery 
officer in garrison at Strasbourg, com- 
posed both the words and the music 
for Dietrich, mayor of the town. On 
July 30th, 1792, the Marseillaise volun- 
teers, invited by Barbaroux at the in- 
stance of Madame Roland, marched to 
Paris singing the favourite song; and 
the Parisians, enchanted with it, called 


it the Hymne des Marseillais. (Rouget 
born 1760, died 1835.) 
Marseilles’ Good Bishop. In 1720 


and 1722 the plague made dreadful 
havoc at Marseilles. The Bishop, H. F. 
Xavier de Belsunce, was indefatigable in 
the pastoral office, and spent his whole 
time visiting the sick. During the 
plague of London, Sir John Lawrence, 
the then Lord Mayor, was no less con- 
spicuous in his benevolence. He sup- 
ported 40,000 dismissed servants so long 
as his fortune lasted, and, when he had 
spent his own money, collected and 
distributed the alms of the nation. 
Darwin refers to these philanthropists 
in his Loves of the Plants, ti, 433. (See 
BORROMEO. ) 


Marsh [16 Marais]. The pit of the 
National Convention, between Mountain 
benches on one side, and those occupied 
by the ministerial party and the opposi- 
tion on the other. These middle men or 
“flats”? were ‘“‘swamped,” or enforcés 
dans un marais by those of more decided 
politics. (See PLAIN.) 


Marshal means an ostler or groom. 
His original duty was to feed, groom, 
shoe, and physic his master’s horse. 
(British, marc, a mare ; scale, a servant.) 

Marshal Forward. Blucher; so called 
for his dash and readiness in the cam- 
paign of 1813. 

Marshal of the Army of God, and of 
Holy Church. The Baron Robert Fitz- 
walter, appointed by his brother barons 
to lead their forces in 1215 to obtain 
from King John redress of grievances. 
Magna Charta was the result. 


Marsham (Jen of). Those who 
committed the offence of felling the 
thorns, οἷο, in 1646, upon Marsham 
Heath, Norfolk. The inhabitants of 
Marshall and tenants of the manor 
petitioned against the offenders. 


Marsig’ lio or Marsilius. A Saracen 
king who plotted the attack upon Ro- 
land, under ‘‘the tree on which Judas 
hanged himself.’”?’ With a force of 
600,000 men, divided into three armies, 
he attacked the paladin and overthrew 


Marsyas 
him, but was in turn overthrown by 
Charlemagne, and hanged on the very 
tree beneath which he had arranged the 
attack, (Zurpin.: Chronicles.) 


Mar'syas. The Phrygian flute-player 
who challenged Apollo to a contest of 
skill, and, being beaten by the god, was 
flayed alive for his presumption, From 
his blood arose the river so called. The 
flute on which Marsyas played .was ons 
Athe’na had thrown away, and, being 
filled with the breath of the goddess, 
discoursed most excellent musie. The 
interpretation of this fable is as follows : 
A contest long existel between the 
lutists and the flautists as to the superi- 
ority of their respective instruments. 
The Dorian mode, employed in the 
worship of Apollo, was performed on 
lutes ; and the Phrygian mode, employed 
in the rites of Cyb’el@, was executed 
by flutes, the reeds of which grew on 
the banks of the river Marsyas. As 
the Dorian mode was preferred by the 
Greeks, they said that Apollo beat the 
flute-player. 


Martano (in Orlando Fuiioso), who 
decoyed Origilla from Gryphon. He 
was a great coward, and fled from the 
tournament amidst the jeers of the 
spectators. While Gryphon was asleep 
he stole his armour, went to King 
Norandi’no to receive the honours due 
to Gryphon, and then quitted Damascus 
with Origilla. A’quilant encountered 
them, and brought them back to Dam- 
ascus, when Marta’no was committed to 
the hangman’s mercies (books viii., ix.) 


Marteau des Heretiques. Pierre 
d’Ailly, also called /’ Aigle de la France. 
(1350-1420.) 


Martel. The surname given to 
Charles, natural son of Pépin d’ Heéristal, 
for his victory over the Saracens, who 
had invaded France under Abd-el-Rah- 
man in 732. It is said that Charles 
“knocked down the foe, and crushed 
them beneath his axe, as a martel or 
hammer crushes what it strikes.’’ 

Judas Asmonezus for a similar reason 
was called Maccabeus (the Hammerer). 

M. Collin de Plancy says that Charles, 
the palace mayor, was not called 
Martel because he martelé (hammered) 
the Saracens, but because his. patron 
saint was Martellus (or Martin). (Didb- 
liothéque des Légendes.) 

Avoir se mettre martel en téte. To 
have a bee in one’s bonnet, to be 
crotchety. Martel is a corruption of 


814 


| proprement " jalousie. 


Martin, an ass, a hobby-horse. M. 
Hilaire le Gai says, but gives no 
authority, ‘* Cette expression nous vient 
des Itahens, car en Italien martello signifie 
99 

“TIs. portent des martels, des capriches,’— 
Branutome: Des Dames Gullantes. 

“ Telle files... pourroient bien donner de bons 
martels ἃ leurs pauyres marys."—Bruntome ; Des 
Lames Galluntes. 

Martello Towers. Round towers 
about forty feet in height, of great 
strength, and situated on a beach or 
river; so called from the Italian towers 
built as a protection against pirates, 
As the warning was given by striking a 
bell with a martello, or hammer, the 
towers were called Zorri da Martello. 

Some say that these towers were so 
called from a tower at the entrance 


of St. Fiorenzo, in Corsica. Similar 
towers were common all along the 


Mediterranean coast as ἃ defence 
against pirates. They were erected in 
the low parts of Sussex and Kent in 
consequence of the powerful defence 


made (February 8th, 1794) by Le 
Tellier at the tower of Mortella, with 
only thirty-eight men, against a 


simultaneous sea and land attack—the 
former led by Lord Hood, and the latter 
by Major-General Dundas. 

Martext (Sir Oliver). The hedge- 
priest in As You Like It (iii. 3). 

Martha (54), patron saint of good 
housewives, is represented in Christian 
art as clad in homely costume, bearing 
at her girdle a bunch of keys, and 
holding a ladle or pot of water in her 
hand. Like St. Margaret, she is accom- 
panied by a dragon bound, but has 
not the palm and crown of martyrdom. 
The dragon is given to St. Martha from 
her having destroyed one that ravaged 
the neighbourhood of Marseilles. 

Martial. Pertaining to Mars, the 
Roman god of war. 


Martian Laws. Laws compiled by 
Martia, wife of Guithelin, great-grand- 
son of Mulmutius, who established in 
England the Mulmutian Laws. Alfred 
translated both these codes into Saxon- 
English. 

“ Guynteline ... whose queen,... to show her 
upright mind, 


To wise Malmutius’ laws her Martian first cid 
frame.” Drayton: Polyolbion, viii. 


Martin. One of the swallow tribe. 
Dies derives the word from St. Martin, 
but St. Martin’s bird is the raven. 

Martin. The ape, in the tale of 
Reynard the Fox. 


Martin 


81 


" 


9 


Martin’s Summer 


Martin. A jackass is so called from 
its obstinacy. “1 y a plus Wun ane qui 
sappelle Martin.” 


“Martinus, qui suam acrius quam par est opin- 
jonem tuetur; cujus modi fuit Martinus juris 
consultus celebris sub Friderico I.,a quo (inquit 
Baronius, A.D. 1150) in vulgare proverbium ejus 
durities in hance usque diem pertransut, ut Mar- 
tinum appellent, qui sue ipsius sententue singu- 
lari pertinaci studio, in herescat. Fuit et 
Martinus Grosia, legum professor in academia 
Bononiensi.’”—Du Cunge (Art. Martinus). 


Martin. (See ALL MY EYE.) 

Martin, in Dryden’s allegory of the 
Hind and Panther, means the Lutheran 
party; so called by a pun on the name 
of Martin Luther. 

Parler Wautre Martin. There are 
more fools than one in the fair. This 
phrase is very common. (Sve Bauduin 
de Seboure: Romans, ch. viii. line 855 ; 
Godefroid de Bouillon, p. 537 ; La branche 
des royaux lignage, line 11,419; Le Mys- 
tere de δ. Crespin et St. Crespinien [2nd 
day], p.43; Reynard the Fox, vol. ii. p. 17, 
line 10,096, vol. iii. p. 23, line 20,402, etc.) 

* Another phrase is ‘* Parler d’ autre 
Bernart,”? from bernart—a jackass or 


fool. 
“ Or vos metron el col la hart 
Puis parleron d’autre Bernart.” 
Le Roman du Renurt, iii. p. 
-“ Vous parlerés d’autre Martin.” 
Ditto, p. 23. 

For a hairy Martin lost his ass. The 
French say that Martin made a bet that 
his ass was black; the bet was lost be- 
cause a white hair was found in its coat. 

Girt like Martin of Cambray—in a very 
ridiculous manner. Martin and Martine 
are the two figures that strike with their 
marteaux the hours on the clock of 
Cambray. Martin is represented as a 
peasant in a blouse girt very tight about 
the waist. 

St. Martix. Patron of drunkards, to 
save them from falling into danger. This 
is a mere accident, arising thus: The 
11th November (St. Martin’s Day) is the 
Vina'lia or feast of Bacchus. When 
Bacchus was merged by Christians into 
St. Martin, St. Martin had to bear the 
ill-repute of his predecessor. 

St. Martin’s bird, A cock, whose blood 
is shed “‘sacrificially’’? on the 11th of 
November, in honour of that saint. 

δέ, Martin's cloak. Martin was a mili- 
tary tribune before conversion, and, while 
stationed at Amiens in midwinter, divided 
his military cloak with a naked beggar, 
who craved alms of him before the city 
gites of Amiens. At night, the story 
says, Christ Himself appeared to the sol- 
dier, arrayed in this very garment. 

δέ, Martin’s goose. The 11th of No- 
vember, St, Martin’s Day, was at one 


92 


time the great goose feast of France. 
The legend is that St. Martin was an- 
noyed by a goose, which he ordered to be 
killed and served up for dinner. As he 
died from the repast, the goose has been 
ever since ‘‘ sacrificed’? to him on the 
anniversary. The goose is sometimes 
called by the French St. Martin’s bird. 
St. Martins jewellery. Counterfeit 
gems. Upon the site of the old collegiate 
church of St. Martin’s le Grand, which 
was demolished upon the dissolution of 
the monasteries, a number of persons 
established themselves and carried on a 
considerable trade in artificial stones, 
beads, and jewellery. These Brumma- 
gem ornaments were called St. Martin’s 
beads, St. Martin’s lace, or St. Martin’s 
jewellery, as the case might be. 


St. Martin’s lace. A sort of copper 
lace for which Blowbladder Street, St. 
Martin’s, was noted. (Séow.) 

St. Martin's rings. Imitation gold 
ones. (See above.) 

St. Martin’s tree. St. Martin planted 
a pilgrim’s staff somewhere near Utopia. 
The staff grew into a large tree, which 
Gargantua pulled up to serve for a mace 
or club, with which he dislodged King 
Picrochole from Clermont Rock. (Lade- 
lais ; Gargantua and Pantag'ruel.) 

Faire la St. Martin or Martiner. To 
feast; because the people used to begin 
St. Martin’s Day with feasting and 
drinking. 

Martin Drunk. Very intoxicated 
indeed ; a drunken man ‘‘ sobered’’ by 
drinking more. The feast of St. Martin 
(November 11) used to be held as a day 
of great debauch. Hence Baxter uses 
the word Martin as a synonym of a 
drunkard :— 

“The language of Martin is there [in heavenJa 
stranger.”—Suint’s Rest. 

Martin of Bullions (‘/.). The St. 
Swithin of Scotland. His day is July 4, 
and the Scotch say, if it rains then, rain 
may be expected for forty days. 

““By St. Martin of Bullion—’ 

“And what hast theu to do with St. Martin ?’ 

‘Nay, little enough, sir, unless when he sends 
such frainy days that we cannot fly a hawk. "~ 
Scott : The Abbott, xv. 

Martin’s Running Footman (S‘.). 
The devil, assigned by legend to St. 
Martin for a running footman on a cer- 
tain occasion. 


“Who can tell but St. Martin’srunning footman 
may still be hatching us some further mischief.” 
Hab leis: 1 antagruel, iv. 23. 


Martin’s Summer (δέ,) 


(See under 
SUMMER.) 


Martine 


816 


Mary Anne 


es 


Martine. A sword. (Italian.) 

“ Quiconque aura affaire ἃ moy, il faut qu'il ait 
affaire a Martine que me voyla au coste (appel- 
Jant son espee * Martine’).”—Brantome : Ro lomon- 
tade Espagnoles, VO). ii. p. 16. 

Martinet. A strict disciplinarian ; 
so called from the Marquis of Martinet, 
a young colonel in the reign of Louis 
XIV., who remodelled the infantry, and 
was slain at the siege of Doesbourg, in 
1672 (Voltaire, owis XIV.,c. 10). The 
French still call a cat-o’-nine-tails a 
‘‘ martinet.”’ 

The French martinet was a whip with 
twelve leather thongs. 


Martinmas. The feast of St. Martin 
is November 11. His Martinmas will 
come, as it does to every hog—i.e. all must 
die. 

** November was the great slaughter- 
time of the Anglo-Saxons, when beeves, 
sheep, and hogs, whose store of food 
was exhausted, were killed and salted. 
Martinmas, therefore, was the slaying 
time, and the proverb intimates that 
our slaying-time or day of death will 
come as surely as that of a hog at St. 
Martin’s-tide. 

Martyr (Greek) simply means a wit- 
ness, but is applied to one who witnesses 
a good confession with his blood. 

The martyr king. Charles I. of Eng- 
land, beheaded January 30th, 1649. He 
was buried at Windsor, and was called 
“The White King.” 

Martyr to science. _ Claude Louis, 
Count Berthollet, who determined to test 
in his own person the effects of carbolic 
acid on the human frame, and died under 
the experiment. (1748-1822. 


Marvedie (4). A maravedi (7.v.), 
a small obsolete Spanish copper coin of 
less value than a farthing. 

“What a trifling, foolish girl you are, Edith, to 
send me by express a letter crammed with non- 
sense about books and gowns, and to slide the 
only thing I cared a maryedie about into the 
postscript.’—Sir W. Scott: Old Mortality, clap. X1. 

Marvellous. Zhe marvellous boy. 
Thomas Chatterton, the poet, author of 
a volume of poetry entitled Rowley’s 
Poems, professedly written by Rowley, a 
monk. (1752-1770.) 

Mary. 

As the Virgin, she is represented in 
Christian art with flowing hair, emblem- 
atical of her virginity. 

As Mater Dolorosa, she is represented 
as somewhat elderly, clad in mourning, 
head draped, and weeping over the 
dead body of Christ. 

As Our Lady of Dolours, she is re- 
presented as seated, her breast being 


pierced with seven swords, emblematic 
of her seven sorrows. 

As Our Lady of Mercy, she is repre- 
sented with arms extended, spreading 
out her mautle, and gathering sinners 
beneath it. 

As The glorified Madonna, she is re- 
presented as bearing a crown and 
sceptre, or a ball and cross, in rich robes 
and surrounded by angels. 

Her seven joys. The Annunciation, 
Visitation, Nativity, Adoration of the 
Magi, Presentation in the Temple, Find- 
ing Christ amongst the Doctors, and the 
Assumption. 

Her seven sorrows. Simeon’s Prophecy, 
the Flight into Egypt, Christ Missed, 
the Betrayal, the Crucifixion, the 
Taking Down from the Cross, and the 
Ascension, when she was left alone, 


Mary, of Lord Byron’s poetry, is 
Miss Chaworth, who was older than his 
lordship. Both Miss Chaworth and Lord 
Byron were under the guardianship of 
Mr. White. Miss Chaworth married 
John Musters, generally called Jack 
Musters; but the marriage was not a 
happy one, and the parties soon separ- 
ated. The Dream of Lord Byron refers 
to this love affair of his youth. 


Mary, of Robert Burns. (See HicH- 
LAND Mary.) 

* It may be added to what is said 
under Highland Mary that of Mary 
Morison the poet wrote :— 

“ Those smiles and glances let me see. 

That make the miser’s treasure poor.” 
And in Highland Mary we have— 
“ Still o'er those scenes my memry wakes, 
‘And fondly broods with miser’s care.” 
A statue to her has been recently erected 
in Edinburgh. 


Marys. The four Marys. | Mary 
Beaton (or Bethune), Mary Livingston 
(or Leuson), Mary Fleming (or Flemynq), 
and Mary Seaton (or Seyton) ; called the 
‘Queen's Marys,”’ that is, the ladies of 
the same age as Mary, afterwards Queen 
of Scots, and her companions. Mary 
Carmichael was not one of the four, 
although introduced in the well-known 
ballad. 

“ Yestre’en the queen had four Marys, 
This night she'll hae but three : 
There was Mary Beatcn, and Mary Seaton, 
Mary Carmichael, and me.” 

Mary Anne or Marianne. A slang 

name for the guillotine. (See below.) 


Mary Anne Associations. Secret 
republican societies in France. The 
name comes about thus: Ravaillac was 
instigated to assassinate Henri ΤΥ. by: 


Mary Magdalene 


817 Masher 


reading the treatise De Lege et Regio 
Institutione, by Mariana, and as Mariana 
inspired Ravaillac ‘‘ to deliver France,” 
the republican party was cailed the 
Mary-Anne. 

“Tho Mary Annes, which are essentially re- 
pubdlicans, are scattered about all the French 
provinces.”—Disraeli: Lothar. 

Mary Magdalene (‘/.). Patron 
saint of penitents, being herself the 
model penitent of Gospel history. 

In Christian art she is represented (1) 
as a patron saint, young and beautiful, 
with a profusion of hair, and holding a 
box of ointment; (2) asa penitent, ina 
sequestered place, reading before a cross 
or skull. 


Mary Queen of Scots. Shakespeare 
being under the patronage of Queen 
Elizabeth, and knowing her jealousy, 
would not, of course, praise openly her 
rival queen; but in the Midswmmer 
Night's Dream, composed in 1592, that 
is, five years after the execution of 
Mary, he wrote these exquisite lines :— 

“Thou rememberest 
Since once I sat upon a promontory, 
And heard a mermaid (1) on a dolphin'’s back (2) 
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath, 


That the rude sea (3) grew civilat her song ; 
And certain stars (4) shot madly from their 


spheres (5), J ) ΕἸ 
To hear the sea-maid’s music.” Actii. 1. 


(1) Mermaid and sea-maid, that is, Mary ; (2) on 
the dolphin’s back, she married the Dolphin or 
Daunhin of France ; (2) the rude sea grew civil 
the Scotch rebels ; (4) certain stars, the Earl o 
Northumberland, the Earl of Westmoreland, and 
the Duke of Norfolk ; (5)shot madly from their 
spheres, that is, revolted from Queen Elizabeth, 
bewitched by the sea-maid’s sweetness, 

Marybuds. The flowerof the mari- 
gold (7.v.). Like many other flowers, 
they open at daybreak and close at 
sunset, 


“And winking marybuds begin 
To ope the’r golden eyes” 
Shakespe wre: Cymbeline, ii. 3. 
Marygold or Marigold. A million 
sterling. A plum is £100,000. (Sve 
MARIGOLD.) 


Maryland (U.S. America) was so 
named in compliment to Queen Henrietta 
Maria. In the Latin charter it is called 
Terra Marie. 

Marylebone (London) is not a cor- 
ruption of Marie la bonne, but ‘‘ Mary 


on the bourne” or river, as Holborn is 
**Old Bourne.”’ 


Mas (plural, Masse). Master, Mr., 
Messrs.; as, Mas John King, Masse 
Fleming and Stebbing. 

Masaniello. A corruption of 
TomMASo ANIELLO, a Neapolitan 
fisherman, who led the revolt of July, 


52 


1647. The great grievance was a new 
tax upon fruit, and the immediate cause 
of Masaniello’s interference was the 
seizure of his wife (or deaf and dumb 
sister) for having in her possession some 
contraband flour. Having surrounded 
himself with 150,000 men, women, and 
boys, he was elected chief of Naples, 
and for nine days ruled with absolute 
control. The Spanish viceroy flattered 
him, and this so turned his head that he 
acted like a maniac. The people be- 
trayed him, he was shot, and his body 
flung into a ditch, but next day it was 
interred with a pomp and ceremony 
never equalled in Naples (1647). 

Auber has an opera on this subject 
called La Muette de Portici (1828), 


Masche-croute [graw-crust], <A 
hideous wooden statue carried about 
Lyons during Carnival. The nurses of 
Lyons frighten children by threatening 
to throw them to Masche-croute. 


Mascotte. One who brings good 
luck, and possesses a ‘‘ good eye.’? The 
contrary of Jettator, or one with an evil 
eye, who always brings bad luck. 
© Ces envoyés du paradis, 

Sont des Mascottes. mes amis, 


Heureux celui que le ciel dote d'une Mascotte.” 
The opera called La Mascotte (1883). 


“T tell you, she was a Mascotte of the first 
water.”’—The Ludgate Monthly, No. 1, vol. ii.; 
Tippitywitchet, Noy. 1891. 

Masdeu (Catalan for (rod’s field). 
The vineyard not far from Perpignan 
was anciently so called. 


Masetto. A rustic engaged to Zer- 
lina; but Don Giovanni intercepts them 
in their wedding festivities, and induces 
the foolish damsel to believe he meant 
to make her his wife. (Mozart: Don 
Giovanni, an opera.) 


Mashack’ering and Misguggling. 
Mauling and disfiguring. 

“T humbly protest against mauling and dis- 
fizuring this work; against what the great 
Walter Scott would, I think, have called mash- 
ackering and misguggling, after the manner of 
Nicol Muschat (in The Heart of Midlothian), when 
he put an end to his wife Arlie at the spot after- 
wards called by his name.”’—W. 1. Gladstone: 
Nineteenth Century, November, 1885. 

Masher. A dude (g.v.); an ex- 
quisite ; a lardy-dardy swell who dresses 
zsthetically, behaves killingly, and thinks 
himself a Romeo. This sort of thing 
used to be called ‘‘ crushing ”’ or killing, 
and, as mashing is crushing, the synonym 
was substituted about 1880. A lady- 
killer, a crusher, a masher, all mean the 
same thing. 

“The prattle of the masher between the acts.” 
Daily Telegraph, Oct. 10, 1883. 


818 Matamore 


Mask a Fleet 


Mask a Fleet (70). To lock up an 
enemy’s fleet that it cannot put to sea. 


Mason and Dixon’s Line. The 
southern boundary-line which separated 
the free states of Pennsylvania from 
what were at one time the slave states 
of Maryland and Virginia. It lies in 
39> 43’ 26" north latitude, and was run 
by Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, 
two English mathematicians and sur- 
veyors (between November 15th, 1763, 
and December 26th, 1767). 


Mass. 

High Mass or ‘‘ Grand Mass”? is sung 
by choristers, and celebrated with the 
assistance of a deacon and sub-deacon. 

Low Mass is simply read without sing- 
ing; there is one between these two 
called the ‘‘ chanted mags,’’ in which the 
service is chanted by the priest. 

Besides these there are a number of 
special masses, as the mass of the Beate, 
mass of the Holy Ghost, mass of the dead, 
mass of α saint, mass of scarcity, dry 
mass, votive mass, holiday mass, Ambro- 
sian mass, Gallic mass, mass of the 
presanctified for Good Friday, missa 
Mosara‘bum, ete. ete. 


Mass (Zhe). 


“Pope Celestinus ordained the introit and the 
gloria in excelsis. 

“Pope Gregory the Great ordered the kirie 
eleison to be repeated nine times, and introduced 
the prayer. 

“ Pope Gelasius ordained the Epistle and Gospel, 

“ Pope Damasus introduced the Credo. 

“ Pope Alexander put into the canon the follow- 
ing clause: ‘Qui pridie quam pateretur! 

“ Pope Sextus introduced the Sanctus, 

“Pope Innocent the pax. . 

“Pope Leo the Orate Fratres, and the words in 
the canon; ‘ Sanctwm Sacrificium et immaculatiani 
Hostram,” 

E. Kinesman: Lives of the Saints, p. 187 (1523). 


Massachusetts was so named from 
the bay massa [great], wadehuash 
[mountain], e¢ [near], The bay-near- 
the-great-mountain. 


Massacre of the Innocents. The 
slaughter of the babes of Bethlehem 
‘‘from two years old and under,’’ when 
Jesus was born. This was done at the 
command of Herod the Great in order 
to cut off ‘ the babe ’’ who was destined 
to become ‘‘ King of the Jews.” 


Micah y. 2 speaks of Bethlehem as a little 
place,a small village, probably containing about 
five hundred inhabitants. It will be easy to cal- 
culate the probable number of infants under two 
years of age in sucha village. It would be about 
ten. 


Massacre of the Innocents (7/2), 
in parliamentary phraseology, means the 
withdrawal at the close of a session of 
the bills which time has not rendered it 


possible to consider and pass. The 
phrase was so used in Zhe Times, 1859. 


“If the secretarial M.P. is to be condemned for 
εν Yoting against the Miner's Eight Hours Bill, 
he is equally censurable if he... does not sup- 
port the numerous... reforms which get the sanc- 
tion of the Congress during the Massacre of the 
Innocents at the close of the sitting.’—Nineteenth 
Century, October, 1892, p. 619. : Ἢ 
Mass’amore (3 syl.) or Massy More. 
The principal dungeon of a feudal castle. 
A Moorish word. 


“Proximus est circer subterra’neus, sine ut 
Mauri appellant ‘ Mazmorra.’”—Old Latin Jtin- 
erary. 


Mast. (See BEFORE THE Mast.) 


Master Humphrey. Narrator of 
the story called The Old Curiosity Shop, 
by Charles Dickens. 


Master Leonard. Grand-master of 
the nocturnal orgies of the demons. He 
is represented as a three-horned goat, 
with black human face.. He marked his 
novitiates with one of his horns... (Mid- 
dle Age demonology.) : 


Master Magrath. The dog whic 
won the Waterloo Cup for three suc- 
cessive years, and was introduced to the 
Queen. ‘ Waterloo’’ is on the banks of 
the Mersey, about three miles north of 
Liverpool. 


Master of Sentences. Pierre Lom- 
bard, author of a work called Sentences, 
a compilation from the fathers of the 
leading arguments, po and con., bearing 
on the hair-splitting theological ques- 
tions of the Middle Ages. (1100-1164.) 


Master of the Mint. A punning 
term for a gardener. 


Master of the Rolls. 
term for a baker. 


Mastic. A tonic which promotes 
appetite, and therefore only increases 
the misery of a hungry man, 


“Like the starved wretch that hungry mastic 
chews, 
But cheats himself and fosters his disease.” 
West; Triumphs of the Gout (Lucian) 


Matadore (3 syl.). In the game of 
Ombre, Spadille (the ace of spades), 


A. punning 


| Manille (the seven of trumps), and Basto 


(the ace of clubs), are called ‘‘ Mata- 
dores.”’ 


“Now move to war her sable Matadore . . . 
Spadillo first, unconquerable lord, 
Led off two captive trumps, and swept the 
board. ς 2 
As many more Manillo forced to yield, 
And marched a victor from the verdant ΠΟ]. 
Him Basto followed. . .° 
Pope: Rape of the Lock, canto iii. 


Matamoras. Mexicans or savages. 


Mat’amore (3 syl.). A_poltroon, a 
swaggerer, a Major Bobadil (q.7.). A 


Mate 


819 


Matthew 


French term composed of two Spanish 
words, matar-Mor'os (a slayer of Moors.) 

“Your followers ... must bandy’and brawl in 
my court... like so many, Matamoros.”—Sir W. 
Scott: Kenilworth, chap. xvi. 

Mate. A man does not get his hands 
out. of the tar by becoming second mate. 
A second mate is expected to put his 
hands into the tar bucket for tarring the 
rigging, like the men below him. The 
first mate is exempt from this dirty work. 
The rigging is tarred by the hands, and 
not by brushes. 


Maté (2 syl.). Paraguay tea is so 
called from maté, the vessel in which 
the herb is in Paraguay infused. These 
vessels are generally hollow gourds, and 
the herb is called yerba de inaté. 


Mate’rialism. The doctrines of a 
Materialist, who maintains that the soul 
and spirit are effects of matter. The 
orthodox doctrine is that the soul is dis- 
tinct from the body, and is a portion of 
the Divine essence breathed into the 
body. A materialist, of course, does 
not believe in a ‘‘spiritual deity’’ dis- 
tinct from matter. Tertullian contended 
that the Bible proves the soul to be 
‘*material,’’ and he charges the ‘ spir- 
itual ’’ view to the heretical doctrinas of 
the Platonic school. 


Matfellon. J%/la beate Marie de 
Matfellon. Whitechapel, dedicated to 
Mary the Mother. 


Mathew (father), 1799-1856, called 
The Apostle of Temperance. His success 
was almost miraculous. 


Math’isen. One of the three Ana- 
baptists who induced John of Leyden 
to**;oin their rebellion, (See JOHN oF 
LEYDEN.) 


Math’urin (S¢.). Patron saint of 
idiots and fools, A pun on his name. 
(See below.) 

The malady of St. Mathurin. Folly, 
stupidity. A French expression. 

Maturins, in French argot, means 
dice, and ‘‘ maturin plat,’ a domino. 

“Ces deux objets doivent leur nom a leur res- 
semblance avec le costume des Trinitaires (vul- 
gairement appeles Matwrins), qui, chez nous, 
portaient une sontane de serge blanche sur 
laquelle, quand ils sortaient, ils jetaient un man- 
teau noir.’—Francisque Michel. 

Matilda. Daughter of Lord Robert 
Fitzwalter. Michael Drayton has a poem 
of some 670 lines so called. 

Matilda. Daughter of Rokeby, and 
niece of Mortham. She was beloved by 
Wilfrid, son of Oswald, but loved Red- 
mond, her father’s page, who turns out 
to be Mortham’s son. (Scott : Rokeby.) 


Matilda, Sister of Gessler; in love 
with Arnold, a Swiss, who had saved her 
life when threatened by the fall of an 
avalanche. After the death of Gessler, 
who was shot by William Tell, the mar- 
riage of these lovers is consummated. 
(Rossini : Guglielmo Tell, an opera.) 

Rosa Matilda. (See Gifford’s Baviad 
and Meviad.) 


Matric'ulate means to enrol oneself 
in a society. The University is called 
our alma mater (propitious mother). The 
students are her a/wmni (foster-children), 
and become so by being enrolled in a 
register after certain forms and examina- 
tions. (Latin, matricula a roll.) 


Matter-of-fact. Unvarnished truth, 
prosaic, unimaginative. Whyte Melville 
speaks of a ‘‘ matter-of-fact swain.’’ 


Matter’s afoot (716). Is in train, is 
stirring. 71 marche bien, it goes well; 
ca wa. 

“ Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot ; 
Take thou what course thou wilt.” 
Shakespeare: Julius Cesar, iii. 2 

Matterhorn. The matrimonial 
Matterhorn. The leap in the dark. The 
Matterhorn is the German name for Mont 
Cervin, a mountain of the Pennine Alps, 
about 40 miles east-north-east of Mont 
Blane. Above an unbroken glacier-line 
of 11,000 feet high, it rises in an inacces- 
sible obelisk of rock more than 3,000 
feet higher. The total elevation of the 
Matterhorn is 14,836 feet. Figuratively 
any danger, or desperate situation 
threatening destruction. 


Matthew (54) in Christian art is re- 
presented (1) as an evangelist—an old 
man with long beard ; an angel generally 
stands near him dictating his Gospel. 
(2) As an apostle, in which capacity he 
bears a purse, in reference to his calling 
as a publican; sometimes he carries a 
spear, sometimes a carpenter’s rule or 
square. (See LUKE.) 

In the last of Matthew.. At the last 
gasp, on one’s last legs. Thisis a German 
expression, and arose thus: A Catholic 
priest said in his sermon that Protestant- 
ism was in the last of Matthew, and, 
being asked what he meant, replied, 
“The last five words of the Gospel of 
St. Matthew are these: ‘ The end of this 
dispensation.’’? Of course he quoted 
the Latin version ; ours is less correctly 
translated ‘‘ the end of the world.” 


Matthew Bramble, in Smollett’s 
Humphry Clinker, is Roderick Random 
grown old, somewhat cynical by experi- 
ence of the world, but vastly improved 


Matthew 


in taste. Chambers says, ‘ Smollett 
took some of the incidents of the family 
tour from Anstey’s New Bath Guide.” 
(English Literature, vol, ii.) 


Matthew Parker’s Bible, 1572. 
The second edition of the ‘ Great 
Bible,’’ with corrections, ete., by Arch- 
bishop Parker. 


Matthews’ Bible, 1537. <A version 
of the Bible in English, edited by John 
Rogers, superintendent of the English 
Church in Germany, and published by 
him under the fictitious name of Thomas 
Matthews. 


Matthias (S¢.) in Christian art is 
known by the axe or halbert in his right 
hand, the symbol of his martyrdom. 
Sometimes he is bearing a stone, in allu- 
sion to the tradition of his having been 
stoned before he was beheaded. 


Maudlin. Stupidly sentimental. 
Maudlin drunk is the drunkenness which 
is sentimental and inclined to tears. 
Maudlin slip-slop is sentimental chit- 
chat. The word is derived from Mary 
Magdalen, who is drawn by ancient 
painters with a lackadaisical face, and 
eyes swollen with weeping. 


Maugis. The Nestor of French 
romance, like Hildebrand in German 
legend. He was one of Charlemagne’s 
paladins, a magician and champion. 


Maugis d’Aygremont. Son of 
Duke Bevis of Aygremont, stolen in in- 
fancy by a female slave. As she rested 
under a white-thorn a lion and a leopard 
devoured her, and then killed each other 
in disputing for the infant. The babe 
cried lustily, and Oriande la Fée, who 
lived at Rosefleur, hearing it, went to the 
white-thorn and exclaimed, ‘‘ By the 
Powers above, this child is mal gist (badly 
lapped) ;”’ and ever after he was called 
mau-gis’. Oriande took charge of him, 
and was assisted by her brother Baudris, 
who taught him magic and necromancy. 
When grown a man Maugis achieved the 
adventure of gaining the enchanted 
horse Bayard, which understood like a 
human being all that was said, and took 
from Anthenor, the Saracen, the sword 
Flamberge or Floberge. Subsequently 
he gave both the horse and sword to his 
cousin Renaud. In the Italian romances 
Maugis is called ‘‘Malagi’gi”’ (q.v.). ; 
Renaud is called ‘‘ Renaldo” (qg.v.); 
Bevis is called ‘‘Buo’vo ;” the horse is 
called ‘‘Bayardo;’’ and the sword, 
‘““Fusberta.”’ (Romance - of » Maugis 
@ Aygremont et de Vivian son frere.) 


820 


Maunds 


Maugrab'in (Heyraddin). Brother 
of Zamet Maugrabin the Bohemian. He 
appears disguised as Rouge Sanglier, and 
pretends to be herald from Liege. (Sir 
Walter Scott : Quentin Durward.) 


Mau’'gys. A giant who keepsa bridge 
leading to a castle by a riverside, in 
which a beautiful lady is besieged. Sir 
Lybius, one of Arthur’s knights, does 
battle with the giant; the contest lasts 
a whole summer’s day, but terminates 
with the death of the giant and libera- 
tion of the lady. (Libeaux, avomance.) 


Maul. To beat roughly, to batter. 
The maul was a bludgeon with a leaden 
head, carried by ancient soldiery. It is 
generally called a ‘‘ mall.” 


Maul (Zhe Giant). A giant who used 
to spoil young pilgrims with sophistry. 
He attacked Mr. Greatheart with a club, 
and the combat between them lasted for 
the space of an hour. At length Mr. 
Greatheart pierced the giant under the 
fifth rib, and then cut off his head. 
(Bunyan: Pilgrim’s Progress, pt. ii.) 


Maul of Monks (772). Thomas 
Cromwell, visitor-general of English 
monasteries, many of which he sum- 
marily suppressed (1490-1540). 


Maunciples Tale. <A medieval ver- 
sion of Ovid’s tale about Coro’nis (Met. 
ii. 543, etc.). Phoebus had a crow which 
he taught to speak ; it was downy white, 
and as big as a swan. He had also a 
wife whom he dearly loved, but she was 
faithless to him. One day when Pheebus 
came home his bird ’gan sing ‘‘Cuckoo! 
cuckoo! cuckoo!’’? Phoebus asked what 
he meant, and the crow told him of" his 
wife’s infidelity. Phabus was very 
angry, and, seizing his bow, shot his wife 
through the heart; but no sooner did 
she fall than he repented of his rashness 
and cursed the bird. ‘‘Nevermore 
shalt thou speak,’’ said he; ‘‘ henceforth 
thy offspring shall be black.’”? Moral— 
‘¢‘ Lordlings, by this ensample, take heed 
what you say; be no tale-bearers, but— 
‘ Wher-so thou comest amongst high or low, 

Keep wel thy tong, and think upon the crow. 
Chaucer: Canterbury Titles. 

Maunds (foyal). Gifts distributed 
to the poor on Maundy Thursday (¢.7.). 
The number of doles corresponds to the 
number of years the monarch has been 
regnant, and the doles used to be dis- 
tributed by the Lord High Almoner. 
Since 1883 the doles have been money 
payments distributed by the Clerk of the 
Almonry Office. The custom began in 


” 


Maundrel 821 


Maximum 


1368, in the reign of Edward III. 
James I, distributed the doles personally. 


“ Tentries of ‘al maner of things yerly yevin by 
my lorde of his Maundy, and my laidis, and his 


lorishippis children.**'—Househoid Book of the 
Eurl of Northumberland, 1512. 
Maundrel. A foolish, vapouring 


gossip. The Scotch say, ‘‘ Haud your 
tongue, maundrel.’’ Asa verb it means 
to babble, to prate. In some parts of 
Scotland the talk of persons in delirium, 
in sleep, and in intoxication is called 
maundrel, The term is from Sir John 
Mandeville, the traveller, who published 
an account of his travels, full of idle 
gossip and most improbable events. 

“ There is another verb, maunder (to 
mutter, to vapour, or wander in one’s 
talk). This verb is from maund (to beg). 
(See Maunpy THURSDAY.) 


Maundy Thursday. The day before 
Good Friday is so called from the Latin 
dies manda'ti (the day of Christ’s great 
mandate), After He had washed His 
disciples’ feet, He said, ‘‘ A new com- 
mandment give I unto you, that ye love 
one another’’ (St. John xiii. 34). 

Spelman derives it from maund (a 
basket), because on the day before the 
great fast all religious houses and good 
Catholics brought out their broken food 
in maunds to distribute to the poor. 
This custom in many places gave birth 
to a fair, as the Tombland fair of 
Norwich, held on the plain before the 
Cathedral Close. 


Mauri-gasima. An island near 
Formo’sa, said to have been sunk in the 
sea in consequence of the great crimes 
of its inhabitants. (Mempfer.) 


Maurita‘nia. Morocco and Algiers, 
the land of the ancient Mauri or Moors. 


Mausole’um. One of the seven 
ἐς wonders of the world ;’’ so called from 
Mauso’lus, King of Caria, to whom Arte- 
mis’ia (his wife) erected at Halicarnassos 
a splendid sepulchral monument B.c. 353. 
Parts of this sepulchre are now in the 
British Museum. 

The chief mausoleums, besides the one 
referred to above, are: the mausoleum of 
Augustus; that of Ha’drian, now called 
the castle of St. An’gelo, at Rome; that 
erected in France to Henry II. by 
Catherine de Medicis ; that of St. Peter 
the Martyr in the church of St. Eusta- 
tius, by G. Balduccio in the fourteenth 
century ; and that erected to the memory 
of Louis XVI. 


Maut gets abune the Meal (177). 
malt liquor or drink gets more potent 


| than the food eaten—that is, when men 


get heady or boosy. 


“Tf the maut getsabune the meal with you, it 
is time for me to take myself away ; and you will 
come to my room, gentlemen, when you want a 
cup of tea.”’—Sir W. Scott : Redguuntlet. 

Mauthe Dog. A ‘‘spectre hound’’ 
that for many years haunted the ancient 
castle of Peel town, in the Isle of Man. 
This black spaniel used to enter the 
guard-room as soon as candles were 
lighted, and leave it at day-break. 
While this spectre-dog was present the 
soldiers forebore all oaths and profane 
talk. One day a drunken trooper en- 
tered the guard-house alone out of 
bravado, but lost his speech and died in 
three days. Scott refers to it in his Lay 
of the Last Minstrel, vi, stanza 26. 

* For the legend, see a long note at 
the beginning of Scott’s Peveril of the 
Peak, chapter xv. 


Mauvais Ton (French). Bad manners. 
Ill-breeding, vulgar ways. 


Mauvaise Honte (French). Bad or 
silly shame. Bashfulness, sheepishness, 


Mauvaise Plaisanterie (4). A 
rude or ill-mannered jest ; a jest in bad 
taste. 


Mavournin. Irish for darling. Erin 
mavournin = Ireland, my darling; Erin 
go bragh = Ireland for ever! 

“Land of my forefathers, Erin go bragh!... 

Erin mavournin, Erin go bragh !” 
Campbell: Exile of Erin, 


Mawther. (See MortHER.) 


Mawworm. A vulgar copy of Dr. 
Cantwell, the hypocrite, in Zhe Hypo- 
crite, by Isaac Bickerstaff. 


Max. A huntsman, and the best 
marksman in Germany. He was be- 
trothed to Ag’atha, who was to be his 
bride if he obtained the prize in the 
annual trial-shot. Having been unsuc- 
cessful in his practice for several days, 
Caspar induced him to go to the wolf’s 
glen at midnight and obtain seven 
charmed balls from Sa’miel the Black 
Huntsman. On the day of contest, the 
prince bade him shoot at a dove. Max 
aimed at the bird, but killed Caspar, who 
was concealed in a tree. The prince 
abolished in consequence the annual féte 
of the trial-shot. (Weber: Der Freis- 
chiitz, an opera.) 

Max O’Rell. The pen name of M. 
Blouet, author of John Bull and his 
Island, ete. 


Max’imum and Minimum. The 
greatest and the least amount; as, the 


Maximus 


82 


lo 


May-pole 


maximum profits or exports, and the 
minimum profits or exports; the maxi- 
mum and minimum price of corn during 
the year. The terms are also employed 
in mathematics. 

Maximus or Maxime (2 5}].)- 
Officer of the prefect Alma’chius, and 
his cornicular. Being ordered to put 
Valir'ian and Tibur’cé to death because 
they would not worship the image of 
Jupiter, he took pity on his victims and 
led them to his own house, where Cecilia 
was instrumental in his conversion ; 
whereupon he and ‘all his’ house 
were at once baptised. When Valir’ian 
and Tibur’cé were put to death, Maximus 
declared that he saw angels come and 
carry them to heaven, whereupon Alma’- 
chius caused him to be beaten with 
whips of lead ‘til he his lif gan lete.”’ 
(Chaucer : Secounde Nonnes Tale.) 


May. A lovely girl who married 
January, an old Lombard baron, sixty 
years of age. She had a liaison with a 
young squire named Damyan, and was 
detected by January ; but she persuaded 
the old fool that his eyes were to blame 
and that he was labouring under a great 
mistake, the effect of senseless jealousy. 
January believed her words, and ‘‘ who 
is glad but he?” for what is better 
than ‘a fruitful wife, and a confiding 
spouse ?’’ (Chaucer: The Marchaunrdes 
Tale. Pope: January and May,) 


May (the month) is not derived from 
Maia, the mother of Mercury, as the 
word existed long before either Mercury 
or Maia had been introduced. It is the 
Latin Maius—i.e. Magius, from the 
root mag, same as the Sanscrit mah, to 
grow ; and means the growing or shoot- 
ing month. 

May unlucky for weddings. Thisisa 
Roman superstition. Ovid says, ‘‘ The 
common people profess it is unlucky to 
marry in the month of May.” In this 
month were held the festivals of Bona 
Dea (the goddess of chastity), and the 
feasts of the dead called Lemuralia, 

“ Nec vidue tedis eddem, nec virglnis apta 
Tempodra ; que nupsit. non diuturna fuit ; 
Hee quoque de causa, si te proverbia fangunt, 

Mente malum Maio nubére vulgus ait.” 
Ovid: Fasti, v. 496, etc. 

Here we go gathering nuts of May. 

(See Nuts OF May.) 


May-day. Polydore Virgil says that 
the Roman youths used to go into the 
fields and spend the calends of May in 
dancing and singing in honour of Flora, 
goddess of fruits and flowers. The early 
English consecrated. May-day to Robin: 


Hood and the Maid Marian, because the 
favourite outlaw died on that day. 
Stow says the villagers used to set up 
May-poles, and spend the day in archery, 
morris-dancing, and other amusements. 

Evil May-day (1517), when the 
London apprentices rose up against the 
foreign residents, and did incalculable 
mischief. The riot lasted till May 22nd. 


_May-duke Cherries. Medoc, a 
district of France, whence the cherries 
first came to us, 


May Meetings. A title applied to 
the annual gatherings, in May and June, 
of the religious and charitable societies, 
to hear the annual reports and appeals 
for continued or increased support. 
The chief meetings are the British 
Asylum for Deaf and Dumb Females, 
British and Foreign Bible Society, British 
and Foreign Schools, Children’s Refuge, 
Church Home Mission, Church Mission- 
ary Society,Church Pastoral Aid Society, 
Clergy Orphan Society, Corporation of 
the Sons of the Clergy, Destitute Sailors’ 
Asylum, Field Lane Refuge, Governesses’ 
Benevolent Institution, Home and Colo- 
nial School Society, Irish Church Mis- 
sionary Society, London City Mission, 
Mendicity Society, National Temperance 
League, Propagation of the Gospel 
among the Jews, Ragged School Union, 
Religious Tract Society, Royal Asylum 
of St. Anne’s, Sailors’ Home, Sunday 
School Union, Thames Church  Mis- 
sionary Society, United Kingdom Band 
of Hope, Wesleyan Missionary Society, 
with many others of similar character. 


May Molloch, or The Maid of the 
Hairy Arms. An elf who condescends 
to mingle in ordinary sports, and even 
to direct the master of the house how to 
play dominoes or draughts. Like the 
White Lady of Avenel, May Molloch is 
a sort of banshee. 


May-pole, May-queen,etc. Dancing © 
round the May-pole on May-day, “‘going 
a-Maying,”’ electing a May-queen, and 
lighting bonfires, are all remnants of 
Sun-worship, and may be traced to the 
most ancient times. The chimney- 
sweeps used to lead about a Jack-i’-the- 
green, and the custom is not yet quite 
extinct (1895). 


May-pole (London). The races in 
the Dunciad take place ‘‘ where the tall 
May-pole overlooked the Strand.’”? On 
the spot now occupied by St. Mary- 
le-Strand, anciently stood a cross. In ~ 
the place of this cross a May-pole was 
set up by John Clarges, a blacksmith, 


Mayeux 


whose daughter Ann became the wife 
of Monk, Duke of Albemarle. It was 
taken down in 1713, and replaced by 
a new one erected opposite Somerset 
House. This second May-pole had two 
gilt balls and a vane on its summit. On 
holidays the pole was decorated with 
flags and garlands. It was removed in 
1718, and sent by Sir Isaac Newton to 
Wanstead Park to support the largest 
_ telescope in Europe. (Sze UNDERSHAFT.) 


“Captain, Baily . . . employed four hackney 
eoaches, with drivers in liveries, to ply at the 
May pole in the Strand, fixing his own rates, about 
the year L634. i 
heen the first of what are now called hackney 
couches.”—Note 1. The Tatler, iv. p. 415. 


May-pole. The Duchess of Kendal, 
mistress of George I. ; so called because 
she was thin and tall as a May-pole. 


Mayeux. The stock name in French 
plays for a man deformed, vain and 
licentious, brave and witty. 


“Mayflower” (7/e). A ship of 180 
tons, which, in December, 1620, started 
from Plymouth, and conveyed to Massa- 
chusetts, in North America, 102 Puritans, 
called the ‘Pilgrim Fathers,’’ © They 
called their settlement New Plymouth. 


Mayonnaise. A sauce made with 
pepper, salt, oil, vinegar, and the yolk of 
an egg beaten up together. A “‘may’’ in 
French is a cullender or strainer, also a 
‘* fort plancher sur lequel on met les 


raisins qw on veut fouler.”’ 


Mayor. The chief magistrate of a 
city, elected by the citizens, and holding 
office for twelve months. 


The chief magistrate of London is The Right 
Hon. the Lord Mayor, OE the Privy Council. 

Since 1339 the chief magistrate of York has been 
a Lord Mayor, and in 1894 those of Liverpool and 
Manchester. 

τ There are two Lord Mayors of Ireland, viz. 
those of Dublin (1665) and of Belfast : and four 
of Scotland—Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen, and 
Dundee. 


Ἵ At the Conquest the sovereign ap- 
pointed the chief magistrates of cities. 
That of London was called the Port- 
Reeve, but Henry II. changed the word 
to the Norman mire (ourmayor). John 
made the office annual : and Edward ITI. 
(in 1354) conferred the title of ‘“‘The 
Right Hon. the Lord Mayor of London.”’ 

ΓΝ The first Lord Mayor’s Show was 
1458, when Sir Johu Norman went by 
water in state, to be sworn in at West- 
minster; and the cap and sword were 
given by Richard II. to Sir William 
Walworth, for killing Wat Tyler. 


Mayor of Garratt. (See GARRATT.) 


Mayor of the Bull-ring (Old 
Dublin), This official and his sheriffs 


Bailey's coaches seem to have | 


823 Mazeppa 


were elected on May-day and St. Peter’s 
Eve ‘‘ to be captaine and gardian of the 
batchelers and the unwedded youth of 
the civitie.’’ For the year the Mayor of 
the Bull-ring had authority to punish 
those who frequented brotheis and 
houses of ill-fame. He was termed 
Mayor of the Bull-ring from an iron 
ring in the Corn Market, to which bulls 
for bull-baiting were tied, and if any 
bachelor happened to marry he was 
conducted by the Mayor and his fol- 
lowers to the market-place to kiss the 
bull-ring, 


Mayors of the Palace (Maire du 
Palais). Superintendents of the king’s 
household, and stewards of the royal 
leudes or companies of France before the 
accession of the Carlovingian dynasty. 


Maz’arinades (4  syl.). Violent 
publications issued against Mazarin, the 
French minister (1650, etc.). 


Mazarine Bible (712). The earliest 
book printed in movable metal type. It 
contains no date, but a copy in the 
Bibliothéque Mazarine contains the 
date of the illuminator Cremer (1456), 
so that the book must have been printed 
before that date. Called ‘‘ Mazarine”’ 
from Cardinal Mazarin, who founded 
the library in 1688, 

In 1873, at the Perkin's sale, Lord Ashburnham 
gave £3.400 for a copy in vellum, and Mr. Quaritch, 
bookseller, gave £2,600 for one on paper. At the 
Thorold sale, in 1884, Mr. Quaritch gave £3,900 for 


acopy.. In 1887 he bought one for £2,600 ; and in 
1889 he gave £2,000 for a copy slightly damaged. 


Mazeppa (Jan), historically, was 
hetman of the Cossacks. Born of a noble 
Polish family in Podolia, he became a 
page in the court of Jan Casimir, King 
of Poland. Here he intrigued with 
There’sia, the young wife of a Podolian 
count, who had the young page lashed to 
a wild horse, and turned adrift. The 
horse dropped down dead in the Ukraine, 
where Mazeppa was released by a Cos- 
sack family, who nursed him in their 
own hut. He became secretary to the 
hetman, and at the death of the prince 
was appointed his successor. Peter I. 
admired him, and created him Prince of 
the Ukraine, but in the wars with Sweden 
Mazeppa deserted to Charles XII., and 
fought against Russia at Pulto’wa. After 
the loss of this battle, Mazeppa fled to 
Valentia, and then to Bender. Some 
say he died a natural death, and others 
that he was put to death for treason by 
the Czar. ord Byron makes Mazeppa 
tell his tale to Charles after the battle of 
Pultowa. (1640-1709.) 


Mazer ὁ 824 


Mazer. A cup; so called from the 
British masarn (maple) ; Dutch, maeser. 
Like our copus-cups in Cambridge, and 
the loving-cup of the London Corpora- 
tion. 


“A mazer wrought of the maple ware.” 
Spenser; Calendar (August). 
“* Bring hither, he said, * the mazers four 
My noble fathers loved of yore." 
Sir Walter Scott: Lord of the Isles. 


Maz'ikeen or Siedeem. A species 
of beimgs in Jewish mythology exactly 
resembling the Arabian Jinn or genil, 
and said to be the agents of magic and 
enchantment. When Adam fell, says 
the Talmud, he was excommunicated 
for 190. years, during which time he 
begat -demons and spectres; for, it is 
written, ‘‘ Adam lived 130 years and 
(i.e. before he) begat children in his 
own image’ (Genesis vy. 3). (Radbi 
Jeremiah ben Eliczar.) 

“And the Mazikeen shall not come nigh thy 
tents."—Psalm xci. 5 (Chaldee version), 

Swells out like the Mazikeen ass. The 
allusion is to a Jewish tradition that a 
servant, whose duty it was to rouse 
the neighbourhood to midnight prayer, 
found one night an ass in the street, 
which he mounted. As he rode along 
the ass grew bigger and bigger, till at 
last it towered as high as the tallest 
edifice, where it left the man, and where 
next morning he was found. 


Mazzi’ni-ism. The political system of 
Giuseppe Mazzi'ni, who filled almostevery 
sovereign and government in Europe 
with a panic-terror. His plan was to 
establish secret societies all over Europe, 
and organise the several governments 
into federated republics. He was the 
founder of what is called ‘‘ Young Italy,”’ 
whose watchwords were ‘ Liberty, 
Equality, and Humanity,’’ whose 
motto was ‘‘God and the People,”’ 
and whose banner was a tricolour of 
white, red, and green, (Born at Genoa, 
1808.) 


Meal or Malt (Jv). In meal or in 
malt. Directly or indirectly ; some sort 
of subsidy. If much money passes 
through the hand, some profit will be 
sure to accrue either ‘‘in meal or in 
malt.”’ 

“When other interests in the country (as the 
cotton trade, the iron trade,and the coal trade) 
had been depressed, the Government had not heen 
called upon forassistance in meal and malt.”—Sir 
William Harcourt: On Agricultural Depression, 
13th April, 1894. 

He must pay either in meal or malt. 
In one way or another, A certain 


Measure 


percentage of meal or malt is the miller’s 
perquisite. 

“If they [the Tories) wish to get the working- 
class vote, they have got to pay for it either in 


meal or in malt.”"—Nineteenth Century, August, 
lave, p. 314. 


Meal-tub Plot. A plot by Danger- 
field against James, Duke of York, in 
1679 ; so called because the scheme was 
kept in a meal-tub in the house of Mrs 
Cellier. Dangerfield subsequently con-~ 
fessed the whole affair was a forgery, 
and was both whipped and condemned 
to stand in the pillory. 


Meals. In the fourteenth century 
breakfast hour was five; dinner, nine; 
supper, four. (Chaucer's Works.) 

In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries 
the breakfast hour was seven; dinner, 
eleven; supper, six. (Wright : Domestie 
Manners.) 

Towards the close of the sixteenth 
century dinner advanced to noon. 

In Ireland the gentry dined at between 
two or three in the early part of the 
eighteenth century. (Swift: Country 


Life.) 
Mealy-mouthed is the Greek icli- 
muthos (honey-speech), and means 


velvet-tongued, afraid of giving offence. 


Mean’der (3 syl.). To wind; so 
called from the Meander, a winding 
river of Phrygia. The ‘‘ Greek pattern ”’ 
in embroidery is so called. 


Measure. Ouiofall measure. ‘Outre 
mesure.’ Beyond all reasonable degree, 
“ Preter (or supra) modum.”’ : 


“This out of measure sad.’—Shakespenre : Much 
Ado About Nothing, i.3. 


To take the measure of one’s foot. To 
ascertain how far a person will venture ; 
to make a shrewd guess of another’s 
character. The allusion is to ‘‘ Lx pede 
Herculem.”’ 


Measure Strength (70). To wrestle 
together ; to fight, to contest. 


Measure Swords (70). To fight a 
duel with swords. In such cases the 
seconds measure the swords to see that 
both are of one length. 

“So we measured swords and parted.”"—Sh«ake. 
speare : As You Like It, v. 4. 

Measure for Measure (Shake- 
speare). The story is taken from a tale 
in G. Whetstone’s Heptam’eron, entitled 
Promos and Cassandra (1578). Promos is 
called by Shakespeare, ‘‘ Lord Angelo : 
and Cassandra is ‘‘Isabella.”’? Her 
brother, called by Shakespeare ‘‘ Clau- 
dio,’ is named Andru’gio in the story. 
A similar story is given in Giovanni 
Giraldi Cinthio’s third decade of stories. 


Measure 


Measure One’s Length on the 
Ground (70). To fall flat on the 
ground; to be knocked down. 

“Tf you will measure your Jubber's length, 
tarry.’--Shakespeare: King Lear, i. 4. 

Measure Other People’s Corn. 
To measure other people's corn by one’s 
own bushel. To judge of others by 
oneself, In French, ‘‘ Meswrer les autres 
ason anne ;”? in Latin, ‘Alios so modulo 
metiri.”’ 

Meat, Bread. These words tell a 
tale ; both mean tood in general. The 
Italians and Asiatics eat little animal 
food, and with them the word dread 
stands for food; so also with the poor, 
whose chief diet it is; but the English 
consume meat very plentifully, and this 
word, which simply means food, almost 
exclusively implies animal food. In the 
banquet given to Joseph’s brethren, the 
viceroy commanded the servants ‘‘ to 
set on bread’? (Genesis xliii. 31). In 
Psalm civ. 27 it is said of fishes, creeping 
things, and crocodiles, that God giveth 
them their meat in due season.”’ 

To carry off meat from the graves—i.e. 
to be poor as a church mouse. The 
Greeks and Romans used to make feasts 
at certain seasons, when the dead were 
supposed to return to their graves. In 
these feasts the fragments were left 
on the tombs for the use of the ghosts. 


Mec (French). Slang for king, gover- 
nor, master; méquard, a commander ; 
mequer, to command, ΑἸ] these are de- 
rived from the fourbesque word maggio, 
which signifies God, king, pope, doctor, 
seigneur, and so on, being the Latin 
major. (There are the Hebrew words 
melech and melchi also.) 


Mecca’s ThreelIdols. Lata, Alo’za, 
and Menat, all of which Mahomet over- 
threw. 


Meche (French). ‘‘J/yaméche,’”’ the 

same as “71 y a moyen ;”’ so the negative 

Ἢ Ξ 5 
“Il n'y a pas méche”’ (there is no possi- 
bility). The Dictionnaire du Bas-langage 
Says: 7% 

“Dans le langage typographique, lorsque des 
ouvriers Viennent proposer leurs services dans 
quelque imprimerie, ils demandent sil y a méche 
—ir. sion peut les occuper. Les compositeurs 
demandent ‘sil ya meéche pour la casse,’ et les 


pressiers demandent ‘s'il y a n.éche pour la 
presse.’ '’—Vol. ii. p. 122. 


“ Soit mis dedans ceste cayerne 
De nul honneur il n'y a maiche.” 
Moralité de la Vendition de Joseph. 
Medam’othi (Greek, never in any 
place). The island at which the fleet of 
Pantagruel landed-on the fourth day of 
their voyage, and where they bought 


5 Medicine 


many choice curiosities, such as the pic- 
ture of a man’s voice, echo drawn to 
life, Plato’s ideas, the atoms of Epicu’ros, 
asample of Philome'la’s needlework, and 
other objects of vertu which could be 
obtained in no other portion of the globe. 
(Rabelais: Pantagruel, iv. 3.) 


Médard (St.). Master of the rain. 
St. Médard was the founder of the rose- 
prize of Salency in reward of merit. 
‘The legend says, he was one day passing 
over a large plain, when a sudden 
shower fell, which wetted everyone to 
the skin except himself. He remained 
dry as a toast, for an eagle had 
kindly spread his wings for an umbrella 
over him, and ever after he was termed 
maitre de la pluie. 

“Sil pleut le jour deS. Médard [sth June] 

Tl pleut quaraute jours plus tard.” 

Mede’a. A sorceress, daughter of 
the King of Colchis. She married Jason, 
the leader of the Argonauts, whom she 
aided to obtain the golden fleece. 


Mede’a’s Kettle or Caldron, to boil 
the old into youth again. Medéa, the 
sorceress, cut an old ram to pieces, and, 
throwing the pieces into her caldron, 
the old ram came forth a young lamb. 
The daughters of Pelias thought to 
restore their father to youth in the same 
way; but Medea refused to utter the 
magic words, and the old man ceased to 
live. 

“Get thee Medea’s kettle and be boiled anew.” 
—Congreve. Love for Love, iv. 

Medham [te /ecn]. One of Maho- 
met’s swords, taken from the Jews when 
they were exiled from Medi’na. (See 
SWORDS.) 


Medizval or Middie Ages begin 
with the Council of Cha'cédon (451), 
and end with the revival of literature in 
the fifteenth century, according to the 
Rev. J. G. Dowling. According to 
Hallam, they begin from the downfall 
of the Western Empire. in 476, to the 
Italian expeditions of Charles VIII. of 
France (1494-1496). 


Me’dian Apptes. Pome-citrons. 


Median Stone (7/ir). Said to cure 
blindness, and, if soaked in ewe’s milk, 
to cure the gout. 


Medicine, in alchemy, was that agent 
which brought about the transmutation 
of metals, or renewed old age ; the philo- 
sopher’s stone, and the elixir of life. 


“ How much unlike art thou. Mark Antony ! 
οι: coming from him, that great medicine 
lath 
With his tinct gilded thee.” 
Shakespeare: Antony and Cleopatra, i. 5. 


Medicinal Days 


Father of Medicine. Aretzos of ΤΣ 
pado/cia, who lived at the close of the 
first and beginning of the second century, 
and Hippoc’ratés of Cos (B.c. 460-357) 
are both so called. 


Medicinal Days. The sixth, eighth, 
tenth, twelfth, sixteenth, eighteenth, 
etc., of a disease; so called because. 
according to Hippoc’ratés, no ‘‘ crisis ”’ 
occurs on these days, and medicine may 
be safely administered. (Seé CRISIS.) 


Medicinal Hours. Hours proper 
for taking medicine, viz. morning fast- 
ing, an hour before dinner, four hours 
after dinner, and bed-time. (Quiney.) 


Medi’na. (Economy, Latin medium, 
the golden mean.) Step-sister of Elissa 
and Perissa, but they could never agree 
upon any subject. (Spenser: Faerie 
Queene, book ii.) 

Medina means in Arabic ‘‘ city.’ The 
city so called is “"" Medinat al Nabi” (city 
of the prophet). 


Mediterranean (Acy of the). The 
fortress of Gibraltar, which commands 
the entrance. 


Me’dium (4), in the language of 
spirit-rappers, etc., is some one pos- 
sessed of ‘‘ odylic force,” who puts the 
question of the interrogator to the 
‘* spirit ’? consulted. 


Medo'ra. The betrothed of the 
Corsair. (Byron: The Corsair.) 


Medo’ro (in Orlando Furioso). A 
Moorish youth of extraordinary beauty ; 
a friend of Dardinello, King of Zuma'Ta. 
After Dardinello was slain, Medo'ro is 
wounded by some unknown spear. An- 
gelica dresses his wounds, falls in love 
with him, marries him, and they retire 
to India, where he becomes King of 
Cathay in right of his wife. 


Medu'sa. Chief of the Gorgons. 
Her head was cut off by Perseus (2 syl.), 
and Minerva placed it in her egis. 
Everyone who looked on this head was 
instantly changed into stone. 

“ The tale is that Medusa, famous for 
her hair, presumed to set her beauty 
above that of Minerva ; so the jealous 
goddess converted her rival’s hair into 
snakes, which changed to stone anyone 
who looked thereon. 

The most famous painting of Medusa 
is by Leonardo da Vinci; it is called his 
chef Vaurre. 


Meerschaum (2 syl., German, sca- 
froth.) This mineral, from having been 
found on the sea-shore in rounded white 


826 Meissonier-like Exactness 


lumps, was ignorantly supposed to be 
sea-froth petrified ; but it is a compound 
of silica, magnesia, lime, water, and car- 
bonic acid. When first dug it lathers 
like soap, and is used as a soap by the 
Tartars. 


Meg. Mons Meg. An old-fashioned 
piece of artillery in the castle of Edin- 
burgh, made at Mons, in Flanders. It 
was considered a palladium by the 
Scotch. (Sce Lona MEG.) 

“Sent awa’ our crown, and our sword, and our 
sceptre, and Mons Meg to Le keepit by thae 
English ».. in the Tower of London [N.B. Jt was 
restored in 182s).""—Scott: Rob Roy, chap. Xx Vii. 

A roaring Meg. A cannon given by 
the Fishmongers of London, aud used in 
1689, Burton says, ‘‘ Music is a roaring 
Meg against melancholy. 


Meg Dods. An old landlady in 
Scott’s novel called St, Ronan’s Well. 


Meg Merrilies (in Sir W. Scott's 
Guy Mannering). This character was 
based on that of Jean Gordon, an in- 
habitant of the village of Kirk Yetholm, 
in the Cheviot Hills, in the middle of 
the eighteenth century. A sketch of 
Jean Gordon’s life will be found in 
Blackwood’s Magazine, vol. i. p. 64. 
She is a half-crazy sibyl or gipsy. 


Mega'rian School. A philosophical 
school, founded by Euclid, a native of 
Meg’ara, and disciple of Socratés. 


Mega'rians (Zhe). <A people of 
Greece proverbial for their stupidity ; 
hence the proverb, ‘‘ Wise as a Mega~ 
rian ’’—i,e. not wise at all; yet sce 
above. 


Megathe’rium (Greek, great-beas?). 
A gigantic extinct quadruped of the 
sloth kind. 


Me’grims. A corruption of the 
Greek hemi-crania (half the skull), 
through the French migraine, A neu- 
ralgic affection generally confined to one 
brow, or to one side of the forehead ; 
whims, fancies. 


Meigle (in Strathmore). The place 
where Guinever, Arthur’s queen, was 
buried. 


Meiny (2  syl.). I 
attendants. (Norman, meignal 
mesnie, a household, our mental.) 
“ With that the smiling Kriemhild forth stepped 

a little srace, Ξ ! 

And Brunhild and her meiny greeted with 

gentle grace.” 3 
Lettsom's Nibelungen Lied, stanza CO4. 

Meissonier-like Exactness. Jean 

Louis Ernest Mei8sonier, R:A., a French 


A. company of 
and 


Meistersingers 


artist, born at Lyons, 1813, exhibited in 
1836 a microscopic painting called Petit 
Messager, and became proverbial for 
the utmost possible precision. 


Meistersingers. Minstrel trades- 
men of Germany, who attempted to 
revive the national minstrelsy of the 
minnesingers, which had fallen into 
decay.. Hans Sachs, the cobbler (1494- 
15745, was by far the most celebrated of 
these poets. 


Mejnoun and Leilah. A Persian 
love-tale, the Romeo and Juliet or Py- 
ranus and Thisbe of Eastern romance. 


-Melampode (3 syl.). Black helle- 
bore; so called from Melampus, a 
famous soothsayer and physician, who 
cured with it the daughters of Pretus 
of their melancholy. (Virgil: Georgics, 
iii. 550.) 

‘“* My seely sheep, like well below, 
They need not melampode ; 
For they been hale enough I trow, 
And liken their abode.” 
; Spenser: Eclogue vii. 
Mel'ancholy. Lowness of spirits, 

supposed at one time to arise from a 
redundance of black bile. (Greek, melas 
cholé.) 


-Mel'ancholy Jacques (1 syl.).. So 
Jean Jacques Rousseau was called for his 
morbid sensibilities and unhappy spirit. 
(1712-1777.) The expression is from 
Shakespeare, As You Like It, ii. 1. 


Melanch'thon is merely the Greek 
for Schwarzerde (black earth), the real 
name of this amiable reformer. (1497- 
1560.) Similarly, @colampa'dius is the 
Greek version of the German name 
Hausschein, and Desiderius Erasmus is 
one Latin-and one Greek rendering of 
the name (heraerd Gheraerd. 


Melan'tius. A brave, honest soldier, 
who believes everyone to be true and 
honest till convicted of crime, and then 
is he a relentless punisher. (Deawmont 
and Fletcher: The Maid’s Tragedy.) 


Melanuros. Abstain from the Me- 
lanurus. This is the sixth symbol in the 
Protreptics. _Melan-uros means the 
““black-tailed.’? Pythagoras told his 
disciples to abstain from that which has 
a black tail, in other words, from such 
pleasures and pursuits as end in sorrow, 
or bring grief. The Melanuros is a fish 
of the ee family, sacred to the ter- 
restrial gods. 


Melchior, Kaspar, and Balthazar. 
The three magi, according’to Cologne 
tradition, who came from’ the East ‘to 


827 


Melibeus 


make offerings to the ‘‘ Babe of Beth- 
lehem, born King of the Jews.”’ 


Melchisedec'ians. Certain heretics 
in the early Christian Church, who en- 
tertained strange notions about Mel- 
chis’edec. Some thought him superior 
to Christ, some paid him adoration, and 
some believed him to be Christ Himself 
or the Holy Ghost. 


Melea’ger. Distinguished for throw- 
ing the javelin. He slew the Calydonian 
boar, it was declared by the fates that 
he would die as soon as a piece of wood 
then on the fire was burnt up ; where- 
upon his mother snatched the log from 
the fire and extinguished it; but after 
Meleager had slain his maternal uncles, 
his mother threw the brard on the fire 
again, and Meleager died. 

The death of Meleager was a favourite subject 
in ancient reliefs. The famous picture of Charles 
le Brun is in the Musée Imperiale of Paris, 

Melesig’enes. So Homer is some- 
times called, because one of the tradi- 
tions fixes his birthplace on the banks of 
the Melés, in Ionia. In a similar way 
we call Shakespeare the ‘ Bard of 
Avon.’’ (See HoMER.) 

“ But higher sung 
Blind Melesigenes—then Homer called.” 
Milton: Puradise Regained, 

Mele'tians. The followers of Mele’- 
tius, Bishop of Lycop’olis, in Egypt, 
who is said to have sacrificed to idols in 
order to avoid the persecutions of Dio- 
cletian. A trimmer in religion. 


Melia’dus (Avg). Father of Tristan ; 
he was drawn to a chase par mal engin ct 
negromance of a fay who was in love 
with him, and from whose thraldom he 
was ultimately released by the power of 
the great enchanter Merlin. (Tristan 
de Leonois, a romance ; 1489.) 


Melibe’us or Melibe. A wealthy 
young man, married to Prudens. One 
day, when Melibeus ‘‘went into the 
fields to play,’’ some of his enemies got 
into his house, beat his wife, and 
wounded his daughter Sophie with five 
mortal wounds ‘‘in her feet, in her 
hands, in her ears, in her nose, and in 
her mouth,’’ left her for dead, and made 
their escape. When Melibeus returned 
home he resolved upon vengearce, but 
his wife persuaded him to forgiveness, 
and Melibeus, taking his wife’s counsel, 
called together his enemies, and told 
them he forgave them ‘‘to this effect 
and to this ende, that God of His endeles 
mercy wole at the tyme of oure deyinge 
forgive us oure giltes that. we have 


= 


Melibcean Dye 


828 


Mélusines 


trespased to Him in this wreeched 
world.’ (Chaucer: Canterbury Tales.) 

N.B. This prose tale of Melibeus is a 
literal translation of a French story, of 
which there are two copies in the British 
Museum. (MS. Reg. 19, c. vii.; and 
MS. Reg. 19, ὁ. xi.) 


Melibo’'an Dye. A rich purple. 
Melibcea, in Thessaly, was famous for 
the ostrwm, a fish used in dyeing purple. 

“A military vest of purple flowed, 
Loyeler than Melipoean.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, xi. 242. 

Melicer’tes (4 syl.). Son of Ino, a 
sea deity. Ath’amas imagined his wife 
to be a lioness, and her two sons to be 
lion’s cubs. In his frenzy he slew one of 
the boys, and drove the other (named 
Melicértés) with his mother into the sea. 
The mother became a sea-goddess, and 
the boy the god of harbours. 


Melior. A lovely fairy, who carried 
off Parthen’opex of Blois to her secret 
island in her magic bark. (French romance 
called Parthenopex de Blois, 12th cent.) 


Melisen’dra. Charlemagne’s daugh- 
ter, married to his nephew Don Gwyfe'- 
ros. She was taken captive by the 
Moors, and confined seven years in a 
dungeon, when Gwyfe'ros rescued her. 
(Don Quixote.) 


Melis'sa (in Orlando Furioso), The 
prophetess who lived in Merlin’s cave. 
Brad’amant gave her the enchanted ring 
to take to Roge'ro; so, assuming the form 
of Atlantés, she went to Alci’na’s island, 
and not only delivered Roge’ro, but dis- 
enchanted all the forms metamorphosed 
in the island. In book xix. she assumes 
the form of Rodomont, and persuades 
Agramant to break the league which 
was to settle the contest by single com- 
bat. A general battle ensues. 


Mell Supper. Harvest supper; so 
called from the French meler (to mix 
together), because the master and ser- 
vants sat promiscuously at the harvest 
board. 


Mellifiuous Doctor (Zhe). St. Ber- 
nard, whose writings were called a 
“‘yiver of Paradise.’”’ (1091-1153.) 


Mel'on. The Mahometans say that 
the eating of a melon produces a thou- 
sand good works. So named from 


Melos. 

Etre un melon, To be stupid or dull 
of comprehension. The melon-pumpkin 
or squash is soft and without heart, 
hence ‘‘étre wr melon”? is to be as soft 


as a squash, So also “‘ avoir un coeur de 


melon (or de citrouille)” means to have no 
heart αὖ 411. Tertullian says of Marcion, 
the heresiarch, ‘‘he has a pumpkin 
[ pep'onem] in the place of a heart [cordis 
loco].’? It will be remembered that 
Thersi’tés, the railer, calls the Greeks 
ἐς pumpkins ”’ (pep’onés). 


Melons (French). Children sent to 
school for the first time; so called be- 
cause they come from a ‘‘ hot-bed,”’ and 
are as delicate as exotics. At St. Cyr, 
the new-comers are called in school- 
slang ‘‘ Les melons,” and the old stagers 
“ὁ. Tes anciens.”’ 

Melons. There are certain stones on 
Mount Carmel called Stone Melons. 
The tradition is that Elijah saw a pea- 
sant carrying melons, and asked him for 
one. The man said they were not melons 
but stones, and Elijah instantly con- 
verted them into stones. 

A like story is told of St. Elizabeth of 
Thuringia. She gave so bountifully to 
the poor as to cripple her own house- 
hold. One day her husband met her 
with her lapful of something, and de- 
manded of her what she was carrying. 
‘¢ Only flowers, my lord,”’ said Elizabeth, 
and to save the lie God converted the 
loaves into flowers. (The Schénberg- 
Cotta Family, p. 19.) 


Melpom’ene (4 syl.). The muse of 
tragedy. The best painting of this muse 
is by Le Brun, at Versailles. 


Melrose Abbey (Περὶ δέον of) from 
735 to 1270, published in Fudman (1684). 


Melusina. The most famous of the 
fees of France. Having enclosed her 
father in a high mountain for offending 
her mother, she was condemned to be- 
come every Saturday a serpent from her 
waist downward. When she married 
Raymond, Count of Lusignan, she made 
her husband vow never to visit her on a 
Saturday ; but, the jealousy of the count 
being excited, he hid himself on one of 
the forbidden days, and saw his wife’s 
transformation. Melusina was now 
obliged to quit her mortal husband, and 
was destined to wander about as a 
spectre till the day of doom. Some say 
the count immured her in the dungeon 
of his castle. (See UNDINB.) 

Cri de Mélusine. A sudden scream ; 
in allusion to the scream of despair 
uttered by the fairy when she discovered 
the indiscreet visit of her beloved hus- 
band. (See above.) 


Mélusines (3 syl.). Gingerbread 
cakes bearing the impress of a beautiful 


Melyhalt 829 


woman ‘bien coiffée,’”? with a serpent’s 
tail ; made by confectioners for the May 
fair in the neighbourhood of Lusignan, 
near Poitiers. The allusion is to the 
transformation of the fairy Melusi’na 
every Saturday. (See above 


Melyhalt (Lady). A powerful sub- 
ject of King Arthur, whose domains 
Galiot invaded. She chose Galiot as 
her lover. 


Memento Mori (4). Something to 
put us in mind of the shortness and un- 
certainty of life. 

“T make as good use of it [Bardolph’s face] as 
many a man doth of a death's head or a memento 
mori.”’—Shakespeare: Henry 1V., iii. 3. 

Memnon. Prince of the Ethiopians, 
who went to the assistance of his uncle 
Priam, and was slain by Achilles. His 
mother Eos was inconsolable for his 
death, and wept for him every morning. 

The Greeks used to call the statue of 
Am’‘enoph'is III., in Thebes, that of 
Memnon. This image, when first struck 
by the rays of the rising sun, is said to 
have produced a sound like the snap- 
ping asunder of a chord. Poetically, 
when Eos (morning) kisses her son at 
daybreak, the hero acknowledges the 
salutation with a musical murmur. The 
word is the Egyptian mei-amun, beloved 
of Ammon. 

“Memnon bending o’er his broken lyre,” 
Darwin: Economy of Vegetation, i. 3. 

Memnon. One of Voltaire’s novels, 
designed to show the folly of aspiring to 
too much wisdom. 

Memnon’s sister. 
by Dictys Cretensis. 

“ Black, but such as in esteem 
Prince Memnon’s sister might beseem,” 
Milton: Il Penseroso. 

The legend given by Dictys Cretensis 
(book vi.) is that Himera, on hearing of 
her brother’s death, set out to secure his 
remains, and encountered at Paphos a 
troop laden with booty, and carrying 
Memnon’s ashes in an urn. Pallas, the 
leader of the troop, offered to give her 
either the urn or the booty, and she 
chose the urn. 

Probably all that is meant is this: 
Black so delicate and beautiful that it 
might beseem a sister of Memnon the 
son of Aurora or the early day-dawn. 


Memorable. The ever memorable, 
John Hales, of Eton (1584-1656). 


Memory. Magliabechi, of Florence, 
the book-lover, was called ‘‘ the univer- 
sal index and living cyclopedia.’’ (1633- 
1714.) (See WooDFALL.) 

Bard of Memory. Samuel Rogers, 


Himéra, mentioned 


Menechmians 
author of Pleasures of Memory. (1762- 
1858.) 
Men in Buckram. Hypothetical 


men existing only in the brain of the 
imaginer, ‘The allusion is to the vaunt- 
ing tale of Falstaff to Prince Henry. 
(Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV, ii. 4.) 


Men of Kent. (Sve KENT.) 


Men of Lawn. Bishops of the Ang- 
lican Chureh. (See Man.) 


Men are but Children of a Larger 
Growth. (Dryden: All for Love, iv. 1.) 

Me'nah, A large stone worshipped 
by certain tribes of Arabia between 
Mecca and Medi’na. This, stone, like 
most other Arabian idols, was demolished 
in the eighth year of ‘‘the flight.”” The 
“menah’’ is simply a rude large stone 
brought from Mecca, the sacred city, by 
certain colonists, who wished to carry 
wit them some memento of the Holy 

and. 


Menal’cas. Any shepherd or rustic. 
The name figures in the Eelogues of Vir- 
gil and the /dy/s of Theoc'ritos, 


Me’nam. A river of Siam, on whose 
banks swarms of fire-flies are seen. 


Menam’ber. A rocking-stone in the 
arish of Sithney (Cornwall) which a 
ittle child could move. The soldiers of 
Cromwell thought it fostered supersti- 
tion, and rendered it immovable. 


Mendicants. The four orders are 
the Jacobins, Franciscans, Augustinians, 
and Carmelites (3 syl.). 


Mendo’za (Danicl), the Jew. A 
prize-fighter who held the belt at the 
close of the last century, and in 1791 
opened the Lyceum in the Strand to 
teach ‘‘the noble art of boxing.’’ (1719- 
1791.) 

“When Humphreys stood up to the Israelite’s 
thumps 


In kerseymere breeches and touch-me-not 
pumps.” Mendoza the Jew. 


“ The Odiad (1798) is a mock heroic 
on the battle between Mendoza and 
Humphreys. The Art of Boxing (1799) 
was written by Mendoza, Memoirs of 
the Life of Daniel Mendoza (1816). See 
also Pugilistica, vol. i. (1880). 

Menech’mians. Persons exactly like 
each other, as the brothers Dromio. So 
called from the Menechmi of Plautus. 

~ In the Comedy of Errors, not only 
the two Dromios are exactly like each 
others, but also Antiphdlus of Ephesus is 
the facsimile of his brother, Antipholus 
of Syracuse. 


Menecrates 


830 


Merchant of “Venice 


Menec'rates (4 syl.). 
of Syracuse, of such unbounded vanity 
that he called himself Jupiter. Philip 
of Macedon invited him to a banquet, 
but served him with incense only. 

“Such was Menecrates of little worth, 

spl ert the saviour, to be called pre- 


To whom of incense Philip made a feast.” 
Lord Brooke : Inquisition upon Fame, etc. 


Mene'via. St. David’s (Wales), Its 
old British name was Henemenew. 


Meng-tse. The fourth of the sacred 
books of China; so called from its 
author, Latinised into Mencius, — It is 
by far the best of all, and was written 
in the fourth century B.c. Confucius 
or Kong-foo-tse wrote the other three : 
viz. Ta-heo (School of Adults), Chong- 
yong (The Golden Mean), and Lun-yu 
(or Book of Maxims). 

Mother of Meng. A Chinese expres- 
sion, meaning ‘‘an admirable teacher.’’ 
Meng’s father died soon after the birth 
of the sage, and he was brought up by 
his mother. (Died B.c. 317.) 


Me’nie (2 syl.). 
~ Marianne. 

“And maun 1 still on Menie doat, 

And bear the scorn that’s in her e’e?” 
Burns. 

Menip’pos, the cynic, called by 
Lucian ‘‘the greatest snarler and snap- 
per of all the old dogs” (cyies). 

Varro wrote in Latin Satyre Menip- 


A contraction of 


ee. 

τ The Menippean Satire is a political 
pamphlet, partly in verse and partly in 
prose, designed to expose.the perfidious 
intentions of Spain in regard to France, 
and the criminal ambition of the Guise 
family. The chief writers were Leroy 
(who died 1593), Pithou (1544-1596), 
Passerat (1534-1602), and Rapin, the 
poet (1540-1609). 


Men‘nonites (3 syl.). The followers 
of Simons Menno, a native of Friesland, 
who modified the fanatical views of the 
Anabaptists. (1496-1561.) 


Men/struum means a monthly dis- 
solvent (Latin, mensis), from the notion 
of the alchemists that it acted only at 
the full of the moon. 

“All liquors are called menstruums which are 


used as dissolvents, or to extract the virtues of 
ingredients by infusion or decoction.”—Quincy. 


Mental Hallucinations. The mind 
informing the senses, instead of the 
senses informing the mind. There can 
be no doubt that the senses may be 
excited by the mind (from within, as 


A physician, 


well as from without). Macbeth:.saw 
the dagger of his imagination as dis- 
tinctly as the dagger which he held in 
his hand. Malebranche declared that 
he heard the voice of God. Descartes 
thought he was followed by an invisible 
person, telling him to pursue his search 
for truth. Goethe says that, on one 
occasion, he met an exact counterpart 
of himself. Sir Walter Scott was fully 
persuaded that he had seen the ghost of 
the deceased Byron. All such hallucina- 
tions (due to mental disturbances) are 
of such stuff as dreams are made of. 


Mentor. A guide, a wise and faith- 
ful counsellor ; so called from Mentor, a 
friend of Ulysses, whose form Minerva 
assumed when she accompanied Telema- 
chos in his search for his father. 
(Fénelon ; Télémaque.) 

Me’nu. Son of Brahma, whose in- 


stitutes are the great code of Indian 
civil and religious law. 

Meo Peric’ulo (Latin). 
responsibility ; I being bond. 

“*T will vouch for Edie Ochiltree, meo periculo, 
.. . said Oldbuck.’—Sir W. Scott : The Antiquary, 
chap, XxXxViil. : 

Mephib’osheth, in <Adsaiom. and 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is 
meant for Pordage, a poetaster (ii. 403), 


Mephistoph’'eles, Mephistoph’ilis, 
Mephostoph‘ilus. A sneering, jeering, 
leering tempter. The character is that 
of a devil in Goethe’s Faust, He is 
next in rank to Satan. 


Mercador Amante—the basis of our 
comedy called The Curious Impertinent 
—was by Gaspar de Avila, a Spaniard. 


On my 


Merca'tor’s Projection is Merca- 
tor’s chart or map for nautical purposes. 
The meridian lines are at right angles to 
the parallels of latitude. It is so called 
because it was devised by Gerhard 
Kauffmann, whose surname Latinised is 
Mercator (Merchant). (1612-1594.) 


Merchant of Venice. A drama by 
Shakespeare. A similar story occurs in 
the Gesta Romano'rum. The tale of the 
bond is chapter xlviii., and that of the 
caskets is chapter xcix. Shakespeare, 
without doubt, is also indebted for his 
plot to the novelette I? Pecorone of Ser. 
Giovanni. (Fourteenth century.) : 

* Loki made a wager with Brock and 
lost. He wagered his head, but saved it 
on the plea that Brock could .not take 
his head without touching his neck, 
(Simroch’s Edda, p. 309.) 


Mercia. 


831. 


Merlo 


ΜΟΥ οἷα. The eighth and last king- 


dom of the Heptarchy, betsveen the . 


It was the 
exons 


Thames and the Humber. 
merc or boundary of the Auglo-S 
and free Britons of Wales. 


Mercurial. Light-hearted and gay, 
like those born under the planet Mer- 
eury. (Astrological ΚΡ κα 


Mercurial Finger (Ziv). 
little finger. 

“The thumb, in chiromancy, we give to Venus, 
The forefinger to Jove, the midst to Saturn, 
The ring to Sol, the least to Mercury.” M 

Ben Jonson: The Alchemist, i. 1. 
“ If pointed it denotes eloquence, if 
“square it denotes sound judgment. 


“.Mercuriale (4 syl., French). An 
harangue or rebuke; so called from 
Mercuriale, as the first Wednesday after 
the great vacation of the Parlhament 
under the old French régime used to be 
called. On this day the house discussed 
grievances, and reprimanded members 
for misconduct. 


. Mer’cury. Images of Mercury, or 
rather, shapeless posts with a marble 
head of Mercury on them, used to be 


The 


érected by the Greeks and Romans | 


Where two or more roads met, to point 
out the way. (Juvezal, viii. 53.) 

"ἢ There are two famous statues of this god in 
Paris: one in the garden of Versailles, hy Lerain- 
bert, and another in the Tuileries, by Melluna, 

You cannot snake a Merewry of every 
log. Pythagoras said: ““ Non ex quovis 
ligno Mercurius fit.’ That is, ‘* Not 
every mind will answer equally well to 
be trained into a scholar.’”’ The proper 
wood for a statue of Mercury was box- 
wood—‘‘ vel guod hominis pultorem pre 
se ferat, vel quod materies sit omninm 
maxime eterna.” (Evrasmus.) 


Mercury, in astrology, “ signifieth 
subtill men, ingenious, inconstant: 
rymers, poets, advocates, orators, phy- 
losophers, arithmeticians, and busie 
fellowes.”’ 


Mercury Fig. (In Latin Ficus ad 
Mercurium), The first fig gathered off a 
fig-tree was by the Romans devoted to 
Mercury. The proverbial saying was 
applied generally to all first fruits or first 
works, as the ‘‘ Guide to Science was my 
Mercury fig.”’ 


Mercu'tio. A kind-hearted, witty 
nobleman, kinsman to the Prince of 
Vero’na, in Shakespeare’s Romeo and 
Juliet. Being mortally wounded by 
Tybalt, he was asked if he were hurt, 
and replied, “Α scratch, a scratch; 
marry, ’tis enough.”’ 


The Mercutio of actors. Lewis, who 
displayed in acting the combination of 
the fop and real gentleman. (1748-1811.) 


Mercy. A young pilgrim who ac- 
companied Christiana in her pilgrimage 
to Mount Zion. She married Matthew, 
Christian’s son. (Bunyan: Pilgrim's 
Progress, part ii.) 

Mercy. The seven works of mercy 
are :— 


(1) To tend the sick. 
(2) To feed the hungry. | 
(3) To give drink to the thirsty. 
(4) To clothe the naked. 
(5) To house the homeless. . 
(6) To visit the fatherless and the afflicted. 
(7) To bury the dead, 
Matt. xxv. 35-40. 


Meredith (Owen). The pseudonym 
of Edward Robert Bulwer Lytton, 
author of Chronicles and Characters, in 
verse (1834). He became Lord Lytton 
(1873-1891), 


Meridian (4). 
spirits. 

“He received from the hand of the waiter the 
meridian, which was placed ready at the har.”"— 
Sir Walter Scott : Redgauntlet, chap, i. 

Meri’no Sheep. A Spanish breed of 
sheep, very valuable for their wool. 


Mer‘ioneth (Wales) is maeronacth (a 
dairy farm). 


Merlan (French). A whiting, or a 
hairdresser. Perruquiers are so called 
because at one time they were covered 
with flour like whiting prepared for the 
frying-pan. 

“ Madressantaun merlan qui filait une perruque 


surun peigne de fer.’—Chateaubriand: Mémoires 
ἃ Outre-Tombe. 


Merlin. Prince of Enchanters; also 
the name of a romance. He was the 
son of a damsel seduced by a fiend, but 
Blaise baptised the infant, and so rescued 
it from the power of Satan. He died 
spell-bound by his mistress Vivian in a 
hawthorn-bush, (See Spenser’s Faérie 
Queene, Tennyson’s Idylls of the King, 
and Ellis’s Specimens of Early English 
Metrical Romances.) 

The English Merlin. Willy, the astro- 
loger, who published two tracts under 
the assumed name of ‘‘ Mer’linus An’- 
glicus.”’ 


Merlin Chair (4). A three-wheeled 
invalid chair, with a double tyre to the 
two front wheels, the outer tyre being 
somewhat smaller than that on which 
the chair rests, so that by turning it 
with the hand the chair can be propelled. 
Named after the inventor. 


Merlo or Melo (Juan de). Born at 
Castile in the 15th century. A dispute 


A noonday dram of 


> 


Mermaids 832 


having arisen at Esalo’na upon the 
question whether Hector or Achilles was 
the braver warrior, the Marques de 
Ville’na called out in a voice of thunder, 
‘Let us see if the advocates of Achilles 
can fight as well as prate.’’ Presently 
there appeared in the midst of the as- 
sembly a gigantic fire-breathing monster, 
which repeated the same challenge. 
Everyone shrank back except Juan de 
Melo, who drew his sword and placed 
himself before the king (Juan II.) to 
protect him, for which exploit he was 
appointed alcayde of Alcala la Real 


(Granada). (Chronica de Don Alvaro 
de Luna.) 

Mermaids. Sir James Emerson 
Tennent, speaking of the dugong, 


a cetacean, says, ‘‘ Its head has a rude 
approach to the human outline, and 
the mother while suckling her young 
holds it to her breast with one flipper, 
as a woman holds her infant in her arm. 
If disturbed she suddenly dives under 
water, and tosses up her fish-like tail. 
It is this creature which has probably 
given rise to the tales about mermaids.”’ 

Mermaid. Mary Queen of Scots 
(q.v.). 

Mermaid’s Glove [Chalina oculata], 
the largest of British sponges, so called 
because its branches resemble fingers. 


Mermaids’ Purses. The empty 
cases of fishes’ eggs, frequently cast 
up by the waves on the sea-beach. 


Mer’ope. One of the Pleiads; dim- 
mer than the rest, because she married 
a mortal. 


Merops’ Son or 4 son of Merops. 
One who thinks he can set the world to 
rights, but can only setitonfire. Agita- 
tors and stump orators, demagogues 
and Nihilists, are sons of Merops. The 
allusion is to Phaeton, son of Merops, 
who thought himself able to drive the 
car of Phcebus, but, in the attempt, 
nearly set the world on fire. 


Merovin'gian Dynasty. The dyn- 
asty of Mero’vius, a Latin form of Mer- 
wig (great warrior). Similarly Louis 
is Clovis, and Clovis is Clot-wig (noted 
warrior). 


Merrie England may probably mean 
“illustrious,’’? from the old Teutonic 
mer. (Anglo-Saxon, mera, famous.) 
According to R. Ferguson, the word 
appears in the names Marry, Merry, 
Merick; the French. Méra, Méreau, 
Merey, Mérig ; and numerous others. 


Merry Dun 


(iratesie Name-System, p. 368.) (See 
elow MERRY.) 


Merrow. A mermaid, believed by 
Irish fishermen to forebode a coming 
storm. There are male merrows, but no 
word to designate them, (Irish, Miruadh 
or Murrighach, from muir, the sea, and 
oigh, a maid, ) 

“Tt was rather annoying to JacR that, though 
living in a place where the merrows were as 
plenty as lobsters, he never could vet aright view 
of one.’ —W. B. Yeates: Fuiry and Folk Tules, p. 63. 

Merry. The original meaning is not 
mirthful, but active, famous ; hence gal- 
lant soldiers were called ‘‘ merry men ;’’ 
favourable weather, ‘‘ merry weather ;’’ 
brisk wind, “ἃ merry gale;’’ London 
was ‘‘merry London;’’ England, ‘‘merry 
England;’’ Chaucer speaks of the 
‘“‘merry organ at the mass;’’ Jane 
Shore is called by Pennant the ‘ merry 
concubine of Edward IV.’’ (Anglo- 
Saxon, wera, illustrious, great, mighty, 
etc.). (See MERRY-MEN. 

?Tis merry in hall, when beards wag 
all (2 Henry IV., act v. 3). It is a sure 
sign of mirth when the beards of the 
guests shake with laughter. 


Merry Andrew. So called from 
Andrew Borde,physician to Henry VIIL., 
etc. To vast learning he added great 
eccentricity, and in order to instruct the 
people used to address them at fairs and 
other crowded places in a very ad cap- 
tandum way. "Those who imitated his 
wit and drollery, though they possessed 
not his genius, were called Merry An- 
drews, a term now signifying a clown 
or buffoon. Andrew Borde Latinised 
his name into Andreas Perfora' tus. (1500- 
1549.) Prior has a poem on ‘‘ Merry 
Andrew.”’ 

* The above is the usual explanation 
given of this phrase; but Andrew is a 
common name in old plays for a varlet 
or manservant, as Abigail is for a wait- 
ing gentlewoman. 


Merry Dancers. The northern lights, 
so called from their undulatory motion. 
The French also call them chevres dan- 
santes (dancing goats). 


Merry Dun of Dover. A _ large 
mythical ship, which knocked down 
Calais steeple in passing through the 
Straits of Dover, and the pennant, at 
the same time, swept a flock of sheep off 
Dover cliffs into the sea. The masts 
were so lofty that a boy who ascended 
them would grow grey before he could 
reach deck again. (Scandinavian myth- 


ology.) 


Merry-Men 


833 Metamorphic Words 


Merry Men (J/y). A chief calls his 


followers his merry men. (Sce above.) 


Merry Men of Mey. An expanse of 
broken water which boils like a caldron 
in the southern side of the Stroma 
channel. 


Merry Monarch. 
1660-1685). 

Merry-thought. 
wishing-bone in ‘the breast of a fowl; 
sometimes broken by two persons, and 
the one who holds the larger portion has 
his wish, as it is said. 


Merry as a Cricket, or as a Lark, 
oras a Grig. The French say, ‘‘ Fou 
(or Folle) comme le branlegai,’? and more 
commonly ‘‘ Gai comme wr pinson” (a 
chaffinch). ‘‘ Branlegai’’ is a dance, 
but the word is not in use now. 


Merse. Berwickshire was so called 
because it was the mere or frontier of 
England and Scotland, 


Mersenne (2 syl.). Zhe English 
Mersenne, John Collins, mathematician 
and physicist, so called from Marin 
Mersenne, the French philosopher (1624- 
1683). 

Merton (Zommy). One of the chief 
characters in the tale of Sandford and 
Merton, by Thomas Day. 


Merton College. Founded by Walter 
de Merton, Bishop of Rochester, and 
Lord High Chancellor in 1264. 


Meru. A fabulous mountain in the 
centre of the world, 80,000 leagues high, 
the abode of Vishnu, and a_ perfect 
paradise. It may be termed the Indian 
Olympos. 

Merveilleuse (3 syl., rench). The 
sword of Doolin of Mayence. It was so 
sharp that when placed edge downwards 
it would cut through a slab of wood 
without the use of force, (See Sworps.) 

+ Also a term applied to the 18th 
century French ladies’ dress. 


_Mesmerism. So called from Fried- 
rich Anton Mesmer, of Mersburg, in 
Suabia, who introduced the science into 
Paris in 1778. (1734-1815.) 


Mesopota’mia. The true ‘‘ Mesopo- 
tamia”? ring (London Review)—i.¢. 
something high-sounding and pleasing, 
but wholly past comprehension. The 
allusion is to the story of an old woman 
who told her pastor that she “found 
great support in that comfortable word 
Mesopotamia.” 


53 


Charles IT. (1630, 


_ great dinners . 
| usually arranged into fours.”’ 


The fureula or | 


Mess = 4. Nares says because ‘at 
. the company was 
That 
four made a mess is without doubt, 
Lyly expressly says, ‘‘ Foure makes a 
messe, and we have a messe of masters ”’ 
(Mother Bombie, ii. 1). Shakespeare 
calls the four sons of Henry his ‘* mess 
of sons’”’ (2 Henry VT., act i. 4); and 
“ Latine,’’? English, French, and Spanish 
are called a ‘‘ messe of tongues”? (J ocalw- 
lary, 1617). Again, Shakespeare says 
(Love’s Labour's Lost, iv. 3), ‘*You three 
fools lacked me... to make up the 
mess.’’ Though four made a mess, yet 
it does not follow that the ‘‘ officer’s 
mess’’ is so called, as Nares says, be- 
cause ‘‘the company was arranged into 
fours,’’ for the Anglo-Saxon mese, like 
the Latin mensa = table, mes Gothic = 
dish, whence Benjamin’s mess, a mess of 
pottage, ete. 

*t Mess, meaning confusion or litter, 
is the German seischen, to mix; our 
word mash. 


Messali‘na. Wife of the Emperor 
Claudius of Rome. Her name has be- 
come a byword for lasciviousness and 
incontinency. Catherine II. of Russia 
is called The Modern Messal’'na (1729- 
1796). (See MaroztA.) 


Messalina of Germany (177). 
Barbary of Cilley, second wife of Kaiser 
Sigismund (15th century). 


Metalo’gicus, by John of Salisbury, 


| the object of which is to expose the 


absurdity and injurious effects of 
‘‘wrangling,’’ or dialectics and meta- 
physics. He says, ‘‘ Prattling and 
quibbling the masters call disputing or 
wrangling, but I am no wiser for such 
Lat Ib) 
logic. 
Metals. The seven metals in alchemy. 


Gold, Apollo or the sun. 

Silver, Diana or the moon. 

Quicksilver, Mercury. 

Copper, Venus. 

Tron, Mars. 

Tin, Jupiter. 

Lead, Saturn. 

Metamor'phic Rocks. Those rocks, 
including gneiss, mica-schist, clay-slate, 
marble, and the like, which have become 
more or less crystalline. 


Metamorphic Words. Obsolete 
words slightly altered, and made current 
again—as ‘‘ chestnut”’ for castnut, from 
Castana, in Thessaly; ‘‘court-cards”’ 
for coat-cards ; ‘ currants”’ for corinths ; 
‘frontispiece’? for frontispice (Latin 


Metaphysics 834 


Mexitli 


frontispicium) ; ‘ Isinglass’? for hausen 
blase (the sturgeon’s bladder, Ger.) ; 
“« shame-faced ”’ for shamefast, as stead- 
fast, etc. ; ‘‘ sweetheart ”’ for seweethard, 
as drunkard, dullard, dotard, niggard. 


Metaphys’‘ies (Greek, aficr-physics), 
The disciples of Aristotle thought that 
matter or nature should be studied before 
mind. The Greek for matter or nature 
is physis, and the science of its causes 
and effects physics. _Meta-physics is the 
Greek for ‘‘ after-physics.”? Sir James 
Mackintosh takes a less intentional view 
of the case, and says the word arose 
from the mere accident of the compilers 
who sorted the treatises of Aristotle, and 
placed that upon mind and intelligence 
after that upon matter and nature, The 
science of metaphysics is the considera- 
tion of things in the abstract—that is, 
divested of their accidents, relations, 
and matter. 


Metasta’sio. The real name of this 
Italian poet was Trapassi (death). He 
was brought up by Gravina, who 
Greecised the name, (1698-1782.) 


Metathesis. A figure of speech in 
which letters or syllables are transposed, 
as ‘* You occupew my pie [py],’’ instead 
of ‘You occupy my pew ;”’ daggle-trail 
for “ draggle-tail,’’ etc. 


Methodical. Jost methodical doctor. 
John Bassol, a disciple of Duns Scotus. 
(1347.) 

Methodists. A name given (1729) 
by a student of Christ Church to the 
brothers Wesley and their friends, who 
used to assemble on given evenings for 
religious conversation. 

~ This word was in use many cen- 
turies before the birth of Wesley and of 
Whitfield. Gale (1678) speaks of a re- 
ligious sect called ‘‘the New Methodists ”’ 
(Court of the Gentiles). John Spencer 
uses the word as one familiarly known 
in Cromwell’s time. Even before the 
birth of Christ, Celsus tells us that those 
physicians were called ‘‘ Methodists” 
(methodici) who followed medical rz/es 
rather than experience. Modern Metho- 
dism dates no farther back than 1729. 

Primitive Methodists. Founded by 
Hugh Bourne (1772-1852). 


Meth’uen Treaty. <A commercial 
treaty between England and Portugal, 
negotiated by Paul Methuen, in 1705, 
whereby the Portuguese wines were 
received at a lower duty than those of 
Prange. This treaty was abandoned in 


Metonic Cycle (7c). A cycle of 
nineteen years, at the end of which 
period the new moons fall on the same 
days of the year, and eclipses recur, 
Discovered by Meton, 8.0, 432. 

Metra. Quen dit Metra (Louis XVI.)? 
Metra was a noted news-vendor of Paris 
before the Revolution—a notability with 
a cocked hat, who went about with his 
hands folded behind his back. 


Metropolitan (4). A prelate who 
has suffragan bishops subject to him. 
The two metropolitans of England are 
the two archbishops, and the two of 
Ireland the archbishops of Armagh and 
Dublin. In the Roman Catholic Church 
of Great Britain, the four archbishops 
of Armagh, Dublin, Cashel, and Tuam 
are metropolitans. The word does not 
mean the prelate of the metropolis in a 
secular sense, but the prelate of a 
‘mother city ’’ in an ecclesiastical sense 
—i.e. a city which is the mother or ruler 
of other cities. Thus, the Bishop of 
London is the prelate of the metropolis, 
but not ametropolitan. The Archbishop 
of Canterbury is metropolita'nus et primus 
toti‘us Anglia, and the Archbishop of 
York primus et metropolita'nus Angle. 


Mettre de la Paille dans ses 
Souliers, or Mettre du Foin dans ses 
Bottes. ‘To amass money, to grow rich, 
especially by illicit gains. The reference 
is to a practice, in the sixteenth century, 
followed by beggars to extort alms. 

νος Des quemands et belistres qui, pour abuser 


1 


le monde, mettent de la paille en leurs souliers.”— 
Supplément du Catholicon, ch. ix. 

Me’'um and Tu’um. That which 
belongs to me and that which is another’s. 
Meum is Latin for ‘‘ what is mine,’’ and 
tuum is Latin for ‘‘whatisthine.”’ Ifa 
man is said not to know the difference 
between mewn and tuwn, it is a polite 
way of saying he is a thief. 

“ Meum est pro'pos'itum in taberna 
mori.’?? A famous drinking song by 
Walter Mapes, who died in 1210. 


Mews. Stables, but properly a place 
for hawks on the moult. The muette 
was an edifice ina park where the officers 
of venery lodged, and which was fitted up 
with dog-kennels, stables, and hawkeries, 
They were called muettes from me, the 
slough of anything; the antlers shed by 
stags were collected and kept in. these 
enclosures. (Lacombe : Dictionnaire 
Portatif des Beaux-Arts.) 

Mexit/li. Tutelary god of the Aztecs, 
in honour of whom they named their 
empire Mexico. (Sowthey.) 


Mezentius 


Mezen’'tius, king of the Tyrrhenians, 
noted for his cruelties and impiety. He 
was driven from his throne by his sub- 
jects, and fled to Turnus, King of the 
Rutuli. When néas arrived he fought 
with Mezentius, and slew both him and 
his son Lausus. Mezentius put his sub- 
jects to death by tying a living man to 
a dead one. 


“He stretches out the arm of Mezentius, and 
fetrers the dead to the living.”—C. Bronté: Shir- 
ley, Chap. XxXxi. 

“This is like Mezentius in Virgil..... Such 
critics are like dead coals ; they may blacken, but 
cannot burn.”"—Broom : Preface to Poems. 

Mezzo Relie’vo. Moderate relief 
(Italian). This is applied to figures 
which project more than those of basso 
relievo (q.v.), but less than those of alto 
relievo (q.v.). 

Mezzo Tinto (Italian, medium tint), 
So engravings in imitation of Indian-ink 
drawings are called. 


Mezzoramia. An earthly paradise 
somewhere in Africa, but accessible by 
only one narrow road. Gaudentio di 
Lucca discovered this secret road, and 
resided in this paradise for twenty-five 
years. (Simon Berington : Gaudentio di 
Lucea.) 


Micah Rood’s Apples. Apples with 
a spot of red (like blood) in the heart. 
Micah Rood was a prosperous farmer at 
Franklin. In 1693 a pedlar with jewel- 
lery called at his house, and next day 
was found murdered under an apple- 
tree in Rood’s orchard. The crime was 
never brought home to the farmer, but 
next autumn all the apples of the fatal 
tree bore inside a red blood-spot, called 
“* Micah Rood’s Curse,’”’ and the farmer 
died soon afterwards, 


Micawber (J/r. Wilkins). A great 
speechifier and letter-writer, projector of 
bubble schemes sure to lead to fortune, 
but always ending in grief. Notwith- 
standing his ill success, he never de- 
spaired, but felt certain that something 
would ‘‘ turn up’’ to make his fortune. 
Having failed in every adventure in the 
old country, he emigrated to Australia, 
where he became a magnate, (Dickens : 
David Copperfield.) 


Micawberism. Conduct similar to 
that of Mr. Micawber’s. (Sve above.) 


Mi'chael. Prince of the celestial 
armies, commanded by God to drive the 
rebel angels out of heaven. Ga’briel 
was next to him in command. (60 
SEVEN SPIRITS.) 

Longfellow, in his Golden Legend, says 


5 _ Michel 


he is the presiding spirit of the planet 
Mercury, and brings to man the gift of 
prudence. 
“The planet Mercury, whose place 
Is nearest to the sun in space, 
Ts my allotted sphere ; 
And with celestial ardour swift 
J bear upon my hands the gift 
Of heavenly prudence here.” 
The Miracle Play, iii. 
St. Michael, in Christian art, is some- 
times depicted as a beautiful young man 
with severe countenance, winged, and 
either clad in white or armour, bearing 
a lance and shield, with which he com- 
bats a dragon. In the final judgment 
he is represented with scales, in which 
he weighs the souls of the risen dead. 

St. Michael’s chair. It is said that 
any woman who has sat on St. Michael’s 
chair, Cornwall, will rule the roost as 
long as she lives. 


Michael Angelo. The celebrated 
painter, born 1474, died 1563. The 
Michael-Angeloof battle-scenes. Michael- 
Angelo Cerquozzi, a native of Rome, 
famous for his battle-scenes and ship- 
wrecks. (1600-1660.) 


Michel-Ange des Bamboches. Peter 
van Laar, the Dutch painter. (1613- 
1673.) 

Michael-Angelo of music. Johann 


Christoph von Gluck, the German musi- 
cal composer. (1714-1787.) 
Michael-Angelo of sculptors. Pierre 
Puget, the French sculptor (1623-1694). 
Also Réné Michael Slodtz (1705-1764). 


Michaelmas Day, September 29th, 
one of the quarter-days when rents are 
paid, and the day when magistrates are 
elected. {Michael the archangel is re- 
presented in the Bible as the general of 
the celestial host, and as such Milton 
represents him. September 29th is dedi- 
cated to Michael and All Angels, and 
as magistrates were once considered 
‘‘angels’”’ or their representatives, they 
were chosen on the day of ‘‘ All Angels.’’ 


“ saw another sign in heaven ..... seven 
angels [magistrates, or executors of God’s judg- 
ments], having the seven last plagues..... 
filled with the wrath of God.” (Rey. xv.1.)_ Those 
ministers of religion who acted as magistrates 
were also called angels. “There is no power but 
of God. The powers that be are ordained of 
God.” 

Michal, in the satire of Absalom and 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is 
meant for Queen Catherine, wife of 
Charles II. As Charles II. is called 
David in the satire, and Michal was 


David’s wife, the name is appropriate. 


Michel or Cousin Michael. A Ger- 
man. Michel means a dolt; thus the 
French call a fool who allows himself to 


Miching Malicho 836 


Midden 


be taken in by thimble-rigs and card 
tricks mikel. In Old French the word 
mice occurs, meaning a fool. (See 
MIcHON.) 

“L’Anglais aime ἃ étre représenté comme un 
John Bull; pour nous, notre type est Allemand 
Michel, qui regoit une tape par derriere et qui 
demande encore; ‘Quy a-t-i] pour votre ser- 
vice ?’"—Dr. Weber: Dev Allemagne, ete. 

Miching Malicho. Secret or under- 
hand mischief; a veiled rebuke; a bad 
deed probed by disguised means. To 
mich or meech means to skulk or shrink 
from sight. Jichers are poachers or 
secret pilferers. Malicho is a Spanish 
word meaning an ‘evil action ;’’ as a 
personified name it means a malefactor. 
(Hamlet, iii. 2.) 

The ‘quarto’? reads munching mal- 
lico; the ‘‘folio”? has miching matlicho. 
Qy. The Spanish m'cho malhe'cho (much 
mischief) ? 


Michon, according to Cotgrave, is a 
“block, dunce, dolt, jobbernol, dullard, 
loggerhead.’’? Probably michon, Mike 
(an ass), mihel, and cousin Michel, are 
all from the Italian τοῖο, an ass, (See 
MIKE.) 


Mickleton Jury (716). A corrup- 
tion of mickle-tourn (magnus tenis). 
The jury of court leets.; These leets 
were visited Easter and Michaelmas by 
the county sheriffs in their towns. 


Microcosm. (Greek, Jitéle world.) 
So man is called by Paracelsus. The 
ancients considered the world as a living 
beipvg ; the sun and moon being its ¢2vo 
eyes, the earth its body, the ether its 
intellect, and the sky its wings. When 
man was looked on as the world in 
miniature, it was thought that the 
movements of the world and of man 
corresponded, and if one could be ascer- 
tained, the other could be easily inferred ; 
hence arose the system of astrology, 
which professed to interpret the events 
of a man’s life by the corresponding 
movements, etc., of the stars. (Sve 
DIAPASON.) 


Mid-Lent Sunday. The fourth 
Sunday in Lent. It is called domin’ica 
refectio' nis (refection Sunday), because 
the first lesson is the banquet given by 
Joseph to his brethren, and the gospel 
of the day is the miraculous feeding of 
the five thousand. In England it used 
to be called Mothering Sunday, from the 
custom of visiting the mother or cathe- 
dral church on that day to make the 
Easter offering. 

Mi'das. Like Midas, all he touches 
turns to gold. Midas, King of Phrygia, 


requested of the gods that everything he 
touched might be turned to gold. His 
request was granted, but as his food 
became gold the moment he touched it, 
he prayed the gods to take their favour 
back. He was then ordered to bathe in 
the Pacto’lus, and the river ever after 
rolled over golden sands. 


Midas-eared. Without discrimina- 
tion or judgment. Midas, King of 
Phrygia, was appointed to judge a 
musical contest between Apollo and 
Pan, and gave judgment in favour of 
the satyr; whereupon Apollo in con- 
tempt gave the king a pair of ass’s ears. 
Midas hid them under his Phrygian cap ; 
but his servant, who used to cut his hair, 
discovered them, and was so tickled at 
the ‘‘ joke,’’? which he durst not men- 
tion, that he dug a hole in the earth, 
and relieved his mind by whispering in 
it ‘‘ Midas has ass’s ears.’’ Budus 
gives a different version. He says that 
Midas kept spies to tell him everything 
that transpired throughout his kingdom, 
and the proverb ‘‘that kings have long 
arms’’ was changed in his case to 
“Ὁ Midas has long ears.’’ ‘* Ex co in pro- 
verbium venit, quod multos otacustas—i.e. 
auricularios habebat.”? (De Asse.) (See 
Pope: Prologues to Satires.) 

** Domenichino (1581-1661) has a 
painting on the Judgment of Midas. 

Midas has ass’s cars. An exact paral- 
lel of this tale is told of Portzmach, king 
of a part of Brittany. It is said Portz- 
mach had all the barbers of his kingdom 
put to death, lest they should announce to 
the public that he had the ears of a horse. 
An intimate friend was found willing to 
shave him, after swearing profound 
secrecy ; but not able to contain him- 
self, he confided his secret to the sands 
of ariver bank. The reeds of this river 
were used for pan-pipes and hautbois, 
which repeated the words ‘‘ Portzmach— 
King Portzmach has horse’s ears.” 


Midden. The kitchen midden. The 
dust-bin. The farmer’s midden is the 
dunghill. The word is Scotch. (Danish, 
modding ; Norwegian, mudder ; Welsh, 
mwydo (to wet), our mud and mire.) 

Better marry over the midden than over 
the moor. Better seek a wife among 
your neighbours whom you know than 
among strangers of whom you know 
nothing. The midden, in Scotland, is 
the domestic rubbish heap. 

Tika cock eraws loodest on its ain mid- 
den. In English, ‘“‘Every cock crows 
loudest on his own dunghill.”? A mid- 
den is an ash-pit, a refuse-heap. 


Middle Ages 837 


Midsummer 


Middle Ages. A term of no definite 
period, but varying a little with almost 
every nation. In France it was from 
Clovis to Louis XI. (481 to 1461). In 
England, from the Heptarchy to the 
accession of Henry VII. (409 to 1485). 
In universal history it was from the 
overthrow of the Roman Empire to the 
revival of letters (the fifth to the fifteenth 
century). 


Middlesex. The Middle Saxons— 
that is, between Essex, Sussex, and 
Wessex. 


Midgard. The abode of the first 
pair, from whom sprang the human race. 
It was made of the eyebrows of Ymer, 
and was joined to Asgard by the rainbow 
bridge called Bifrost. (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

Asgard is the abode of the celestials. 

Utgard is the abode of the giants. 

Midgard is between the two—better 
than Utgard, but inferior to Asgard. 


Midgard Sormen (earth’s monster). 
The great serpent that lay in the abyss 
at the root of the celestial ash. (Seandi- 
navian mythology.) Child of Loki. 


Midi. Chercher midi a quatorze heures. 
To look for knots in a bulrush; much 
ado about nothing; to explain prosily 
what is perfectly obvious. 

* There is a variant of this locution : 
Chercher midi ou il west qwonze heures, 
to look for a needle in a bottle of hay; 
to give oneself a vast lot of trouble for 
nothing. At one time, hundreds of 
persons looked for the millennium and 
end of the world on fixed dates, and to 
them the proverb would apply. 


Midlo'thian. Sir Walter Scott’s 
Heart of Midlothian is a tale of the 
Porteous riot, in which are introduced 
the interesting incidents of Effie and 
Jeanie Deans. Effie is seduced while in 
the service of Mrs. Saddletree, and is 
imprisoned for child-murder; but her 
sister Jeanie obtains her pardon through 
the intercession of the queen, and 
marries Reuben Butler. 


Midnight Oil. Late hours. 

Burning the midnight oil, Sitting up 
late, especially when engaged on literary 
work. 

Smells of the midnight oil. Said of 
literary work, which seems very elabor- 
ate, and has not the art of concealing 
art. (Sze Lamp.) 


Midrash’im (sing. Midrash). Jewish- 


expositions of the Old Testament. 


Midsummer Ale. The Midsummer 
banquet. Brand mentions nine ale- 
feasts: ‘‘ Bride-ales, church-ales, clerk- 
ales, give-ales, lamb-ales, leet-ales, 
Midsummer-ales, Scot-ales, Whitsun- 
ales, and several more.’’ Here “ale”’ 
does not mean the drink, but the feast 
in which good stout ale was supplied. 
The Cambridge phrase, ‘‘ Will you wine 
with me after hall? ’’ means, ‘‘ Will you 
come to my rooms for dessert, when 
wines, fruits, and cigars will be pre- 
pared, with coffee to follow? ”’ 


Midsummer Madness. Olivia says 
to Malvo’'lio, ‘‘ Why, this is very mid- 
summer madness” (Twelfth Night, iii. 
4). The reference is to the rabies of 
dogs, which is generally brought on by 
Midsummer heat, 


Midsummer Men. The plants called 
Orpine or Live-long, one of the Sedum 
tribe. Stonecrop is another variety of 
the same species of plants, Orpine is the 
French word for stonecrop. Live-long, 
so called because no plant lives longer 
after it is cut. It will live for months 
if sprinkled once a week with a little 
water. Sedum means the plant sedens 
in rupibus (sitting or growing on stones). 
It is called midsummer men because it 
used to be set in pots or shells on mid- 
summer eve, and hung up in the house 
to tell damsels whether their sweethearts 
were true or not. If the leaves bent to 
the right, it was a sign of fidelity ; if to 
the left, the “ true-love’s heart was cold 
and faithless, ”’ 


Midsummer-Moon Madness. ’7is 
Midsummer-moon with you. You are 
stark mad. Madness is supposed to be 
affected by the moon, and to be aggra- 
vated by summer heat; so it naturally 
follows that the full moon at mid- 
summer is the time when madness is 
most outrageous. 

“ What’s this midsummer moon ? 
Is all the world gone a-madding ?” p 
Dryden: Amphitryon, iy. 1. 

Midsummer Night’s Dream. Some 
of the most amusing incidents of this 
comedy are borrowed from the Diana of 
Montemayor, a Spanish writer of pas- 
toral romance in the sixteenth century ; 
and probably the Knightes Tale in 
Chaucer may have furnished hints to 
the author. 


Midsummer Nights Dream. Egéus 
of Athens went to Theseus, the reigning 
duke, to complain that his daughter 
Her’mia, whom he had commanded to 
mairy Demetrius, refused to obey him, 


Midwife 


838 Milesian Fables 


because she loved Lysander. Egeus de- 
mauded that Hermia should be put to 
death for this disobedience, according to 
the law. Hermia pleaded that Demetrius 
loved Helena, and that his affection was 
reciprocated. Theseus had no power to 
alter the law, and gave Hermia four 
days’ respite to consider the matter, and 
if then she refused the law was to take 
its course. Lysander proposed flight, to 
which Hermia agreed, and told Helena 
her intention; Helena told Demetrius, 
and Demetrius, of course, followed. The 
fugitives met in a wood, the favourite 
haunt of the fairies. Now Oberon and 
Tita’nia had had a quarrel about a 
changeling boy, and Oberon, by way of 
punishment, dropped on Titania’s eyes 
during sleep some loyve-juice, the effect 
of which is to make the sleeper fall in 
love with the first thing seen when 
waking. The first thing seen by Titania 
was Bottom the weaver, wearing an 
ass’s head. In the meantime King 
Oberon dispatched Puck to pour some 
of the juice on the eyes of Demetrius, 
that he might love Helena, who, Oberon 
thought refused to requite her love. 
Puck, by mistake, anointed the eyes of 
Lysander with the juice, and the first 
thing he saw on waking was not Hermia 
but Helena. Oberon, being told that 
Puck had done his bidding, to make all 
sure, dropped some of the love-juice on 
the eyes of Demetrius, and the first 
person he beheld on waking was Hermia 
looking for Lysander. In due time the 
eyes of all were disenchanted. Lysander 
married Hermia, Demetrius married 
Helena, and Titania gave the boy to her 
lord, King Oberon. 

Midwife (Anglo-Saxon, mid, with; 
uif, woman), The nurse who is with 
the mother in her labour. 

Midwife of mens thoughts. So Soc'- 
rates termed himself; and, as Mr. 
Grote observes, ‘‘No other man ever 
struck out of others so many sparks to 
set light to original thought.’? Out of 
his intellectual school sprang Plato and 
the Dialectic system; Euclid and the 
Megaric; Aristippos and the Cyrenaic ; 
Antisthénés and the Cynic; and his in- 
fluence on the mind was never equalled 
by any teacher but One, of whom it was 
said, ‘‘ Never man spake like this man.”’ 

Miggs (JZiss). Mrs. Varden’s maid, 
and the impersonation of an old shrew, 
(Dickens : Barnaby Rudge.) 

Mignon, The young Italian girl 
who fell in love with Wilhelm Meister’s 
apprentice, her protector. Her love not 


being returned, she became insane and 
died. (Goethe: Withelm Meister.) 


Mikado (Japan, mi, exalted; hado, 
gate), is not a title of the emperor of 
Japan, but simply means the person who 
lives in the imperial palace, 


Mike. To loiter. A corruption of 
muiche (to skulk); whence, micher (a 
thief), and michery (theft). (Old Norse, 
mak, leisure; Swedish, maka; Saxon, 
*mugan, to creep.) (See M1cHon.) 

“Shall the blessed sun of heaven prove a 
ee {loiterer] ? "—Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV., 

Mil’an Decree (7ie). <A decree 
made by Napoleon I., dated ‘‘ Milan, 
Dec. 27, 1807,” declaring ‘‘ the whole 
British Empire to be in a state of 
blockade, and forbidding all countries 
either from trading with Great Britain 
or from even using an article of British 
manutacture.”’ 

This very absurd decree was killing the goose 
which laid the golden eggs, for England was the 
best customer of the very countries thus re- 
stricted from dealing with her. 

Mil’an Steel. Armed in Milan steel. 
Milan was famous in the Middle Ages for 
itsarmoury. (Lvoissart, iv. 597.) 

Mil'ane’se (3 syl.). A native of Milan 
—i.e. mi-lano. (Old Italian for middle- 
land, meaning in the middle of the 
Lombardian plain.) 


Milden’do. The metropolis of Lilli- 
put, the wall of which was two feet and 
a half in height, and at least eleven 
inches thick. The city was an exact 
square, and two main streets divided it 
into four quarters. The emperor’s 
palace, called Belfab’orac, was in the 
centre of the city. (Gulliver’s Travels : 
Voyage to Lilliput, iv.) 


Mildew has nothing to do with 
either mil/s or dew. It is the Gaelic 
mehl-thew (injurious or destructive 


blight). 

Mile’sian Fables. The romances 
of Antonius Diog’enés, described by 
Photius, but no longer extant. They 
were greedily read by the luxurious 
Sybarites, and appear to have been of a 
very coarse amatory character. They 
were compiled by Aristi’dés, and trans- 
lated into Latin by Sisen’na, about the 
time of the civil wars of Ma/rius and 
Sylla. 

The tales of Parthe’nius Nice’nus were 
borrowed from them. Thename isfrom 
the Milesians, a Greek colony, the first 
to catch from the Persians their rage for 
fiction. Parthenius taught Virgil Greek. 


Milesian Story 


839 


Milliner 


Milesian Story or Jule (A). One 
very wanton and ludicrous. So called 
from the Milesie Fab'ule, the immoral 


tendency of which was notorious. (See 
above.) 
Mile’sians (112). Theancient Trish. 


The legend is that Ireland was once 
peopled by the Firbolgs, who were sub- 
dued by the Milesians, called the ‘‘ Gaels 
of Ireland.”’ 


“My family, by my father’s side, are all the true 
ould Milesians, and related to the O’Flahertys, 
and O*’Shaughnesses, and the M’Lauchlins, the 
O'Donnaghans, O°Callaghans, O’Geogaghans, and 
all the thick blood of the nation ; and I myself 
aman O’Brallaghan, which is the ouldest of them 
all.”"—Maclin: Love ἃ la Mode. 

Milk. 70 cry over spilt milk. 
under CRY.) 


Milk and Honey. A /and of mill: 
and honey. That is, abounding in all 
good things, or of extraordinary fertility. 
Joel iii, 18 speaks of ‘‘ the mountains 
flowing with milk and honey.”’ Figura- 
tively used to denote all the blessings of 
heaven. 

* Jerusalem the golden, 
With milk and honey blest.” 

Milk and Water. Insipid, without 
energy or character ; baby-pap (litera- 
ture, etc.). 


Milk of Human Kindness (71ε). 
Sympathy, compassion. 


Milksop (4). Aneffeminate person ; 
one without energy, one under petticoat 
government. The allusion is to very 
young children, who are fed on bread 
and milk. 


_ Milky Way (7ie). A great circle of 
stars entirely surrounding the heavens. 
They are so crowded together that they 
appear to the naked eye like a ‘‘ way”’ 
or stream of faint ‘‘milky’’ light. The 
Galaxy or Via Lactéa. 

“ A broad and ample road, whose dust is gold 
And pavement star's, as stars to thee appear, 
Seen in the galaxy—that Milky Way, 

Thick, nightly, as a circling zone, thou seest 
Powdered with stars.” 

Milton: Paradise Lost, vii. 577, etc. 
Mill. To fight; not from the Latin 

milés, a soldier, but from the noun mil/. 

Grinding was anciently performed by 

putverising with a stone or pounding 

with the hand. To mill is to beat with 
the fist, as persons used to beat corn with 

a stone. 

The word is Gaelic, in which there are 
numerous derivatives, meaning toravage, 
destroy, etc. 


Mills of God grind slowly (Zi). 
“ Dii pedes lanatos habent’’ (Petronius). 


(See 


Vengeance may be delayed, but it will 

come when least expected. 

“The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind 
exceeding small ; : 

Though with patience He stands waiting, with 

exactness He grinds all.” 

Longfellow : Retribution. 

Millen’nium means simply a thou- 
sand years. (Latin, mille annus.) In 
Rev. xx. 2 it is said that an angel bound 
Satan a thousand years, and in verse 4 
we are told of certain martyrs who will 
come to life again, and ‘‘reign with 
Christ a thousand years.’ ‘‘ This,”’ 
says St. John, ‘“‘is the first resurrec- 
tion ;”’ and this is what is meant by the 
millennium. 

Miller. Zo drown the miller. 
Drowy, etc.) 

To give one the miller is to engage a 
person in conversation till a sufficient 
number of persons have gathered to- 
gether to set upon the victim with 
stones, dirt, garbage, and 4ll the arms 
which haste supplies a mob with. (Sve 
MI11.) 

More water glideth by the mill than 
wots the miller of (Titus Andronicus, 11. 
1). Many things are done in a house 
which the master and mistress never 
dream of. 


Miller. A Joe Miller. A stale jest. 
John Mottley compiled a book of facetize 
in the reign of James II., which he en- 
titled Joe Miller’s Jests, from a witty 
actor of farce during the time that Con- 
greve’s plays were in vogue. A stale 
jest is called a ‘‘Joe Miller,” implying 
that it is stolen from Mottley’s compila- 
tion. (Joe Miller, 1684-1738.) 


Miller’s Eye (4). Lumps of un- 
leavened flour in bread ; so called because 
they are little round lumps like an eye. 

To put the millers eye out. To make 
broth or pudding so thin that the miller’s 
eye would be put out or puzzled to find 
the flour. 


Miller’s Thumb (4). A small fish, 
four or five inches long, so called from 
its resemblance to a miller’s thumb. 
The fish is also called Bullhead, from its 
large head. 


Milliner. A corruption of Ifi/'aner ; 
so called from Mil’an, in Italy, which at 
one time gave the law to Europe in all 
matters of taste, dress, and elegance. 

** Milliner was originally applied to 
the male sex; hence Ben Jonson, in 
Every Man in his Προ", i. 3, speaks 
of a ‘‘milliner’s wife.’? The French 
have still wne modiste and un modiste. 


(See 


Millstone 


840 Mind your Bye 


Millstone. 70 look (or see) through a 
millstone. To be wonderfully sharp- 
sighted, 

“Then... since youreies are so sharp that you 
can not only looke through a milstone, but cleane 
through the inde . . .’—ZLilly : Euphues, ete. 

Millstone used for a Ferry (4). 
The saint who crossed the Irish Sea on a 
millstone was St. Piran, patron saint of 
tanners. 


Millstones. 70 weep millstones. Not 
weep at all. 
“ Bid Glos’ter think on this, and he will weep— 
Aye, millstones, as he lessoned us to weep.” 
Shakespeare: Richard IIT, i. 6. 
Millstones of Montisci (716). They 
produce flour of themselves, whence 
the proverb, ‘‘ Grace comes from God, 
but millstones from Montisci.”’ (Boccae- 
cio : Decameron, day viii. novel 3. 
Millwood (Sarah). The courtesan 
who enticed George Barnwell to robbery 
and murder. (See BARNWELL.) 


Milo. An athlete of Croto’na. It is 
said that he carried through the stadium 
at Olympia a heifer four years old, and 
ate the whole of it afterwards. When 
old he attempted to tear in two an oak- 
tree, but the parts closed upon his 
hands, and while held fast he was de- 
voured by wolves. (See PoLYDAMUS.) 


Milton borrowed from St. Avi'tus his’ 


description of Paradise (book i.), of 
Satan (book ii.), and many other parts 
of Paradise Lost. He also borrowed 
very largely from Du Bartas (1544-1591), 
who wrote an epic poem entitled The 
Week of Creation, which was translated 
into almost every European language. 
St. Avitus wrote in Latin hexameters 
The Creation, The Fall, and The Expul- 
sion from Paradise. (460-525.) 

Milton. ‘‘Milton,’? says Dryden, in 
the preface to his Fubles, ‘‘ was the 
poetical son of Spenser. . . . Milton has 
acknowledged to me that Spenser was 
his original.”’ 

Milton of Germany. Friedrich G. 
Klopstock, author of Zhe Messiah. 
(1724-1803.) Coleridge says he is “a 
very German Milton indeed.” 


Mi’mer. 


giants. The Vanir, with whom he was 
left as a hostage, cut off his head. Odin 
embalmed it by his magic art, pro- 
nounced over it mystic runes, and ever 
after consulted it on critical occasions. 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Mi‘mer’s Well. A well in which all 
wisdom lay concealed. It was at the 


The Scandinavian god of | 
wisdom, and most celebrated of the | 


root of the celestial ash-tree. Mimer 
drank thereof from the horn Gjallar. 
Odin gave one of his eyes to be per- 
mitted to drink of its waters, and the 
draught made him the wisest of the 
gods. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Mimo’sa. Niebuhr says the Mimosa 
““droops its branches whenever anyone 
approaches it, seeming to salute those 
who retire under its shade.” 


Mince (French). A bank-note. The 
assignats of the first republic were so 
called, because the paper on which 
they were printed was exceedingly thin. 
(Dictionnaire du Bas- Langage, ii. 139.) 


Mince Pies at Christmas time are 
emblematical of the manger in which 
our Saviour was laid. The paste over 
the ‘‘ offering’? was made in form of a 
eratch or hay-rack. (See PLuM PuppINnG. ) 

Mince pies. Slang for “the eyes.” 
(See Cutvy.) 

Mince the Matter. Not to mince 
the matter. To speak outright; not to 
palliate or gloss over the matter. Ter- 
ence has ‘‘ Rem profer pala” (Heaut- 
timoroumenos, v. 2, 41). The French say, 
“ Je ne le lui ai point mache.’ About 
the same is the phrase ‘‘ Not to put too 
fine a point on the matter.”’ 


Mincemeat. 170 make mincemeat of. 
Utterly to demolish ; to shatter to pieces. 
Mincemeat is meat cut up very fine. 


Minch-house (4). A nunnery. 
(Anglo-Saxon, minicem, anun.) Some- 
times it means an ale- or road-house. 


Mincing Lane (London). A cor- 
ruption of Mynchen Lane; so called 
from the tenements held there by the 
mynchens or nuns of St. Helen’s, in 
Bishopsgate Street. (Minicen, Anglo- 
Saxon for a nun; minchery, a nunnery.) 


Min’cio or Min'tio. The birthplace 
of Virgil. The Clitumnus, a river of 
Umbria, was the residence of Proper’ - 
tius ; the Anio is where Horace had a 
villa; the river Melés, in Ionia, is the 
supposed birthplace of Homer. Little- 
ton refers to all these in his Monody on 
Miss Fortescue. 

Mind your Eye. Be careful or 
vigilant ; keep a sharp look out; keep 
your eyes open to guard against mis- 
chief. School-boy wit, Mens tous ego. 

“© Perhaps it may be so’ (says I); ‘but mind 
your eye, and take care you don’t put your foot in 
1t.’"—Haliburton. 


“*You must mind your eye, George + a good 
many tents are robbed every week.’ "—C. Reade. 


Mind your Own Business 841 


Minnesingers 


Mind your Own Business. “ Seest 
thou a man diligent in his business, he 
shall stand before kings ”’ (Prov. xxii. 29). 
‘“* He who doeth his own business de- 
fileth not his fingers”? (Fielding’s Pro- 
verbs). Let every tub stand on its own 
bottom. Never meddle with what does 
not concern you. 

“Bon homme, garde la yache. | 
metier, et les vaches son bien gardces. 
a ses affaires.” 4 J 

“Qui fa le fatti suoi, non s’embratta le mani.” 

“Tua quod nihil refert ne cures. Suum cura 
ποσοῦ), Tune quesiveris extra.’”—Horace, 

Minden Boys. The 20th Foot; so 
called from their noted bravery at Min- 
den, in Prussia, August 1, 1759. Now 
called ‘‘ The Lancashire Fusiliers.”’ 


Minerva (in Greek, Athe'nz). The 
most famous statue of this goddess was 
by Phidias, the Greek sculptor. It was 
wood encased with ivory; the drapery, 
however, was of solid gold. It repre- 
sented the goddess standing, clothed 
with a tunic reaching to the ankles, a 
spear in her left hand, and an image of 
Victory (four cubits high = about six 
feet) in her right. She is girded with the 
zgis, has a helmet on her head, and her 
shield rests by her side on the ground. 
The entire height was nearly forty feet. 
This statue was anciently one of the 
‘*“Seven Wonders of the World.” A 
superb statue of the goddess was found 
at Velletri, but whether this was the 
famous statue of Phidias is not known. 
It is preserved in the Imperial Museum. 

ἢ The exquisite antique statue of Minerva 
Medica is in the Vatican of Rome. 

Minerva. IJnvita Minerva, without 
sufficient ability; against the grain. 
Thus, Charles Kean acted comedy invita 
Minerva, his forte lying another way. 
Sir Philip Sidney attempted the Horatian 
metres in English verse invita Minerva. 


Chacun son 
Chacun 


Minerva Press (712). A printing 
establishment in Leadenhall Street, 
London, famous about a century ago 
for its trashy, ultra-sentimental novels. 
These novels were remarkable for their 
complicated plots, and especially for 
the labyrinths of difficulties into which 
the hero and heroine got involved before 
they could get married to each other. 


Miniature (3 syl.). Paintings by 
the Miniato’ri, a set of monks noted for 
painting with minim or red-lead, The 
first miniatures were the initial letters 
of rubrics, and as the head of the Virgin 
or some other saint was usually intro- 
duced into these illuminated letters, the 
word came to express a small likeness. 


The best miniature-painters have been 
Holbein, Nicholas Hilliard, Isaac Oliver 
and his son Peter, Samuel Cooper and 
his brother Alexander, etc. 

Minie Rifle. (Sce Gun.) 

Minims (Latin, Fratres Min'imz, least 
of the brethren). A term of self-abase- 
ment assumed by an order of monks 
founded by St. Francis of Paula, in 
1453. The order of St. Francis of Assisi 
had already engrossed the ‘‘ humble” 
title of Fratres Mino'res (inferior bro- 
thers). The superior of the minims is 
called corrector. 

Minister means an inferior person, 
in opposition to magister, a superior. One 
is connected with the Latin minus, and 
the other with magis. Our Lord says, 
‘“ Whosoever will be great among you, 
let him be your minister,’’ where the anti- 
thesis is well preserved. The minister of 
a church is a man who serves the parish 
or congregation ; and the minister of the 
Crown is the sovereign’s servant. 

Minister. Florimond de Remond, 
speaking of Albert Babinot, one of the 
disciples of Calvin, says, ‘‘He was a 
student of the Institutes, read at the 
hall of the Equity school in Poitiers, 
and was called /a Ministerie.’’? Calvin, 
in allusion thereto, used to call him ‘‘ Mr. 
Minister,” whence not only Babinot but 
all the other clergy of the Calvinistic 
church were called ministers. 


Minna Troil. Eldest daughter of 
Magnus Troil, the old Udaller of Zetland. 
Captain Clement Cleveland (Vaughan) 
the pirate loved her, and Minna recipro- 
cated his affection, but Cleveland was 
killed by the Spaniards in an encounter 
on the Spanish main. (Six Walter Scott : 
The Pirate.) 

Minnehaha [ Laughing-water]. The 
lovely daughter of the old arrow-maker 
of the Daco’tahs, and wife of Hiawath’a. 
She died of famine. Two guests came 
uninvited into Hiawatha’s wigwam, and 
the foremost said, ‘‘ Behold me! I am 
Famine ;”’ and the other said, ‘‘ Behold 
me! I am Fever;’”’ and Minnehaha 
shuddered to look on them, and hid her 
face, and lay trembling, freezing, burn- 
ing, at the looks they cast upon her. 
“Ah!” cried Laughing-water, ‘‘ the 
eyes of Pauguk [death] glare upon me, 
I can feel his icy fingers clasping mine 
amidst the darkness,’? and she died 
crying, “‘ Hiawatha! Hiawatha! ”’ (Long- 
fellow : Hiawatha.) 


Min’ne’singers. Minstrels. The 
earliest lyric poets of Germany were so 


Minories 


842 *Miramolin 


called, because the subject of their lyrics 
was minne-sang (love-ditty). These 
poets lived in the twelfth and thirteenth 
centuries. 


Min’ories (3 syl.) (London). The 
cloister of the Minims or, rather, Minor- 
esses (nuns of St. Clare), The Minims 
were certain. reformed Franciscans, 
founded by St. Francis de Paula in the 
fifteenth’ century. They went bare- 
footed, and. wore a coarse, black woollen 
stuff, fastened with a woollen girdle, 
which they never put off, day or night. 
The word is derived from. the Latin 
minimus (the least), in allusion to the 
‘text, “1 am less than the least of all 
saints’? (Eph, iii. 8). 


Minos. A king and lawgiver of 
Crete, made at death supreme judge of 


the lower world, before whom all the | 


dead appeared to give an account of 
their stewardship, and to receive the 
reward of their deeds. 


- Minotaur [J/inos-bull). 
of aman and head of a bull. 
slew this monster. 


Minot’'ti. Governor of Corinth, then 
under the power of the doge. In 1715 
the city was stormed by the Turks, and 
during the siege one of the magazines in 
the Turkish camp blew up, killing 600 
-men. - Byron says it was Minotti himself 
who fired -the train, and leads us to 
‘infer that he was one of those who 
perished in the explosion. (Byron: 
Siege of Corinth.) 


Minstrel simply means a servant or 
minister. Minstrels were kept in the 
service of kings and princes for the en- 
tertainment of guests. James Beattie 
has a poem in Spense'rian verse, called 
The Minstrel, divided into two books. 

The last minstrel of the English stage. 
James Shirley, with whom the school of 
Shakespeare expired. (1594-1666.) 


Mint. So called from the nymph 
Minthé, daughter of Cocy'’tus, and a 
favourite of Pluto. This nymph was 
metamorphosed by Pluto’s wife (Proser- 
pine) out of jealousy, into the herb 
called after her name. The fable is 
quite obvious, and simply means that 
mint is a capital medicine. Minthé was 
a favourite of Pluto, or death, that is, 
was sick and on the point of death; but 
was changed into the herb mint, or was 
cured thereby. 


“Could Pluto’s queen, with jealous fury stom 
4nd Minthé to a fragrant herb waustou 7 
vid. 


The body 
Theseus 


Min’uit (2-syl.). «‘‘ Enfants de la 
messe de minuit,’? pickpockets. - Cotgrave 
gives ‘‘ night-walking rakehells, such as 
haunt these nightly rites only to rob 
and play the knaves.”’ 


Min'ute. Make a minute of that. 
Take a note of it. A law term; a rough 
draft of a proceeding taken down in 
minite or small writing, to be after- 
wards engrossed, or written larger. 


Min’ute Gun. A signal of distress 
at sea, or a gun fired at the death of a 
distinguished individual; so called be- 
cause a minute elapses between each 
discharge. 


Miol'nier (3 syl.) [the crusher]. The 
magic hammer of Thor, It would never 
fail to hit a Troll; would never miss to 
hit whatever it was thrown at; would 
always return to the owner of its own 
accord ; and became so small when not 
in use that it could be put into Thor’s 
pocket. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Mir'abel. A_ travelled, dissipated 
fellow, who is proof against all the wiles 
of the fair sex. (Beaumont and Fletcher : 
Wildgoose Chase.) 


Miracles (Latin, miraciilwn). 

Vespasian, the Roman emperor, is said 
to have cured a blind man and a cripple 
by his touch during his stay in Alex- 
andria. 

Muahomet’s miracles. He took a scroll 
of the Koran from the horn of a bull; 
a white dove came from heaven to 
whisper in his ear a message from God; 
he opened the earth and found two jars, 
one of honey and one of milk, as em- 
blems of abundance; he brought the 


| moon from heaven, made it pass through 


his sleeve, and return to its place in 
heaven; he went to heaven on his horse 
Al Borak ; was taught the Koran by the 
angel Gabriel, ete. And yet we are told 
that he laid no pretensions to miracles. 
The Abbé Paris, or more correctly 
Francois de Paris, the deacon, buried at 
the cemetery of St. Médard. The num- 
berless cures performed at his tomb are 
said by Paley to be the best authenticated 
of any, except those of the Bible. 
Edward the Confessor and all our 
sovereigns up to the time of Queen Anne 
are said to have cured scorbutic diseases 
by their touch. (See THAUMATURGUS. ) 


Miram’olin. The title of the Em- 
peror of Morocco. Α miraman is a tem- 
porary Turkish officer. 


Miramont 


843 


Misers 


Mir‘amont. An ignorant, testy old 
man, an ultra-admirer of learning. 
(Fletcher : The Elder Brother.) 

Miran’da. Daughter of Prospero. 
(Shakespeare : Tempest.) 

Mirror of Human Salvation. An 
extended ‘‘ Bil'lia Paw perum” (q.v.) 
with the subject of the picture explained 
inrhymes. Called in Latin ‘‘ Spee'ulun 
humane salvatio'nis.”’ 


Mirror of King Ryence (Zi). 
This mirror was made by Merlin, and 
those who looked in it saw whatever 
they wished to see. (Spenser: Facrie 
Queene, bk. iii.) 


Mirror of Knighthood (7/ie). One 
of the books in Don Quixote’s library, a 
Spanish romance at one time very popu- 
lar. Butler calls Hudibras ‘* the Mirror 
of Knighthood ”’ (book i. 15). 

“The barber, taking another book, said, ‘ This is 
the Mirror of Knighthood. ”—Part 1, book 1. 6.) 

Mirrors. 

Alasnam’s mirror. The ‘ touchstone 
of virtue,’’ showed if the lady beloved 
was chaste as well as beautiful. (47a- 
bian Nights : Prince Zeyn Alasnam.) 

Cambuscav’s mirror, Sent to Cam- 
buscan’ by the King of Araby and Ind; 
it warned of the approach of ill-fortune, 
and toldif love wasreturned. (Chaucer : 
Canterbury Tales ; The Squires Tale.) 

Lao’s mirror reflected the mind and 
its thoughts, as an ordinary mirror re- 
flects the outward seeming. (Goldsmith : 
Citizen of the World, xlv.) 

Merluv’s magie mirror, given by Mer- 
lin to King Ryence. It informed the 
king of treason, secret plots, and pro- 


jected invasions, (Spenser : Fucrie 
Queene, 111. 2.) 
Reynard’s wonderful mirror. This 


mirror existed only in the brain of 
Master Fox; he told the queen-lion that 
whoever looked in it could see what was 
done a mile οὐ. The wood of the frame 
was not subject to decay, being made of 
the same block as King Crampart’s 
magic horse. (Reynard the Fox, ch, xii.) 

Vuleav’s mirror showed the past, the 
present, and the future. Sir John 
Davies tells us that Cupid gave the 
mirror to Antin’ous, and Antinous gave 
it to Penelopé, who saw therein ‘the 
court of Queen Elizabeth.” 


Mirza. Einir Zadah [prince’s son]. 
It is used in two ways by the Persians ; 
when prefixed to a surname it is simply 
a title of honour; but when annexed to 
the surname, it means a prince of the 
blood royal, 


Mis’creant (3 syl.) means a false be- 
liever. (French, mis-créance.) A term 
first applied to the Mahometans. The 
Mahometans, in return, call Christians 
infidels, and associate with the word all 
that we mean by ‘‘ miscreants.’’ 

Mise-money. An honorarium given 
by the people of Wales to a new “ Prince 
ot Wales”’ on his entrance upon his 
principality. At Chester a mise-book 
is kept, in which every town and village 
is rated to this honorarium. 

Littleton (Dict.) says the usual sum is £500, 
Bailey has the word in his Dictionary. 

Misers. The most renowned are :— 

(1) Baron Agealar or Ephraim Lopes 
Pereira d’Aguilar, born at Vienna and 
died at Islington, worth £200,000. (1740- 
1802.) 

(2) Daniel Dancer. Tis sister lived 
with him, and was a similar character, 
but died before him. (1716-1794.) 

(3) Colonel Ὁ Dogherty, though owner 
of large estates, lived in a windowless 
hut, which he entered by a ladder that 
he pulled up after him. His horse was 
mere skin aud bone. He wore an old 


| night-cap for wig, and an old brimless 


hat. His clothes were made up of 


_ patches, and his general appearance was 


that of extreme destitution. 

(4) Sir Harvey Elwes, who died worth 
£250,000, but never spent more than 
£110 a year. 

His sister-in-law inherited £100,000, 
but actually starved herself to death. 

Her son John, M.P., an eminent 
brewer in Southwark, never bought any 
clothes, never suffered his shoes to be 
cleaned, and grudged every penny spent 
in food. (1714-1789.) 

(5) Foscue, farmer-general of Langue- 
doc, who hoarded his money in a secret 
cellar, where he was found dead. 

(6) Thomas Guy, founder of Guy’s 
Hospital. (1644-1724.) 

(7) Vulture Hopkins. 

(8) Dick Jarrett died worth £10,000, 
but his annual expenses never exceeded 
£6. The beer brewed at his christening 
was drunk at his funeral. 

(9) Messrs. Jardin, of Cambridge. 

(10) Wilham Jennings, a neighbour 


| and friend of Elwes, died worth £200,000. 


(1701-1797.) 

(11) The Rev. — Jonas, of Blewbury. 

(12) John Little left behind him 
£40,000, 180 wigs, 173 pairs of breeches, 
and an endless variety of other articles 
of clothing. His physician ordered him 
to drink a little wine for his health’s 
sake, but he died in the act of drawing 
the cork of a bottle. 


Miserere 


S44 


Misnomers 


(13) Ostervald, the French banker, who 
died of starvation in 1790, possessed of 
£120,000. 

(14) John Overs, a Southwark ferry- 
man. 

(15) The King of Patterdale, whose 
income was £800 a year, but his ex- 
penses never exceeded £30, He lived at 
the head of Lake Ulleswater. His last 
words were, ‘ What a fortune a man 
might make if he lived to the age of 
Methuselah!’’ He died at the age of 
eighty-nine, 

(16) Guy Wilcocks, a female miser. 

(See Huctio, HARPAGON, etc.) 


Misere're (4 syl.). Our fifty-first 
psalm is so called. One of the evening 
services of Lent is called smisere’re, be- 
cause this penitential psalm is sung, after 
which a sermon is delivered. The under 
side of a folding-seat in choir-stalls is 
called a misere're ; when turned up it 
forms a ledge-seat sufficient to rest the 
aged in a kneeling position. 


“Misfortune will never Leave Me 
tillI Leave It,” was the expression of 
Charles VII., Emperor of Germany. 
(1742-1745.) 


Mishna. Instruction, A word ap- 
plied by the Jews to the oral law. It is 
divided into six parts: (1) agriculture ; 
(2) Sabbaths, fasts, and festivals; (9) 
marriage and divorce ; (4) civiland penal 
laws ; (Ὁ) sacrifices ; (6) holy persons and 
things. The commentary of the Mishna 
is called the Gema'ra. (Hebrew, shanah, 
to repeat.) 

Misnomers. 

Absalom means a Father’s Peace, a 
fatal name for David’s rebellious son. 

Acid (sour) applied in chemistry to a 
class of bodies to which sourness is only 
accidental and by no means a universal 
character—thus, rock-crystal, quartz, 
flint, etc., are chemical acids, though no 
particle of acidity belongs to them. 

America. So called from Amerigo 
Vespucci, a naval astronomer of Flor- 
ence. He wrote an account of his dis- 
coveries, which were very popular in 
Germany, but certainly he did not dis- 
cover the New World. 

Ant. Go to the ant, thou sluggard. 
(See ANTS, HONEYCOMB.) 

Antelope is a hopeless absurdity for 
the Greek anthos-ops, beautiful eye. 

Arabie figures were not invented by 
the Arabs, but by the Indians, 

Baffin’s Bay is no bay at all. 

Blacklead is a compound of carbon 
and iron. 


Blind-worms are no more blind than 
moles are; they have very quick and 
brilliant eyes, though somewhat small. 

Brazilian grass does not come from 
Brazil, or even grow in Brazil, nor is ita 
grass at all. It consists of strips of a 
palm-leaf (Chamerops argente'a), and is 
chiefly imported from Cuba. 

Bridegroom has nothing to do with 
groom. It is the old English gama, a 
man, bryd-gund. 

Burgundy pitch is not pitch, nor is it 
manutactured or exported from Bur- 
gundy. The best is a resinous substance 
prepared from common frankincense, and 
brought from Hamburg; but by far the 
larger quantity is a mixture of rosin and 
palm-oil. 

Canopy, as 1f from Canopus (the star 
in the southern hemisphere), is the Greek 
konopeion (from konops, a gnat), and 
means a cloth to keep off gnats. 

Catgut is not the gut of cats, but of 
sheep. 

Celandine should be chelidon, Greek 
and Latin for a swallow; so called be- 
cause it was at one time supposed that 
swallows cured with it the blindness of 
their young. (l7iny, xxv. 50.) 

China, as a name for porcelain, gives 
rise to the contradictory expressions 
British china, Sevres china, Dresden 
china, Dutch china, Chelsea china, ete.; 
like wooden milestones, iron milestones, 
brass shoe-horns, iron pens, ete. 

Cinerary, for a cemetery, should be 
‘‘Cinery.”’ Cinerarius is a woman’s 
tailor. 

Cuttle-bone is not bone at all, but a 
structure of pure chalk embedded loosely 
in the substance of a species of cuttle- 
fish. It is enclosed in a membranous 
sac, within the body of the ““ fish,’’ and 
drops out when the sac is opened, but it 
has no connection whatever with the sac 
or the cuttlefish. 

Cleopatra’s Needles were not erected by 
Cleopatra, or in honour of that queen, 
but by Thothmes III. 

Crawfish for cravis (Latin carabus, a 
lobster, French écrevisse). 

Cullander, ἃ strainer, 
“colanter’’ (Latin colans, 
straining). 

Custard, the food, is from the Welsh 
for curded milk; but ‘‘ custard,’ for a 
slap on the hand, should be custid, from 
the Latin custis, a club, 

Down for adown (the preposition) is 
a strange instance of caprice, in which 
the omission of the negative (a) utterly 
perverts the meaning. The Saxon diz 
is an upland or hill, and a-dwn is its 


should be 
colantis, 


Misnomers 


845 


Misnomers 


opposite —i.c. a lowland or descent. 
Going down stairs really means ‘ going 
upstairs,’ of ascending; and for de- 
scending we ought to say ‘‘ going a- 
down.”’ 

Dutch clocks are not of Dutch but 
German (Deutsch) manufacture. 

Elements. Fire, air, earth, and water, 
called the four elements, are not ele- 
ments at all. 

Fish, a counter, should be fiche (a five- 
sou piece), used at one time in France 
for card-counters, One of them, given 
“for the rub,’? was called Ja fiche de 
consolation. 

Foxglove is not the glove of the fox, 
but of the fays, called fo/s—the little 
folk’s glove; or else from jfusco, red. 

Frontispiece. A vile corruption of 
frontispice (Latin frontispicium, a view 
on the front page). The ‘piece’’ is 


specium. Frontispiece is an awful 
hybrid. 
Fusiliers, These foot-soldiers now 


carry Enfield rifles, and not fusils, 

Galvanised iron is not galvanised. It 
is simply iron coated with zinc, and this 
is done by dipping it in a zine bath con- 
taining muriatic acid. 

German silver is not silver at all, nor 
was the metallic mixture invented by a 
German, but has been in use in China 
time out of mind. 

Gothic architecture is not the archi- 
tecture of the Goths, but the ecclesias- 
tical style employed in England and 
France before the Renaissance. 

Guineapig. A blunder for Guiana, 
South America. Nota pig but a rodent. 

Honeydew is neither honey nor dew, 
but an animal substance given off by 
certain insects, especially when hunted 
by ants. 

Honey soap contains no honey, nor is 
honey in any way employed in its manu- 
facture. It is a mixture of palm-oil 
soap and olive soap, each one part, with 
three parts of curd soap or yellow soap, 
scented. 

Greyhound has no connection with the 
colour grey. It is the grayhound, or 
hound which hunts the gray or badger. 

Humble pie, for wnbil pie. The um- 
bils of venison were served to inferior 
retainers and servants. 

Hydrophobia (Greek, dread of water) 
applied to mad dogs is incorrect, as they 
will lap water and even swim in it. 

Indians (American). A blunder of 
geography on the part of the early dis- 
coverers of the New World, who set their 
faces westward from Europe to find 
India, and believed they had done so 


when they discovered Cat’s Island, off 
the south coast of America. 

Trish stew. A dish that is unknown 
in Ireland. 

Tron-mask was made of velvet. 

Japan lacquer contains no lac at all, 
but is made from the resin of a kind of 
nut-tree called Anacardiacez. 

Jerusalem artichoke has no connection 
with Jerusalem, but with the sunflower, 
girasole, which it resembles. 

Kensington Palace is not in Kensington 
at all, but in the parish of St. Margaret, 
Westminster. 

Ivid gloves ave not kid at all, but are 
made of lamb-skin or sheep-skin. 

Laudanum should be ladanum, origin- 
ally made from the leaves of the dada. 
(Pliny, xxvi. 47.) 

Longitude and latitude, the great 
dimension and little or broad dimension 
of the earth. According to the ancient 
notion, the world was bounded on the 
west by the Atlantic, but extended an 
ind<iinite length eastward. It was 
similarly terminated on the south by the 
Tropic of Cancer, whence it extended 
northwards, but this extent being much 
less than that east and west, was called 
the breadth or latitude. 

Louis de Bourbon, Bishop of Liége, is 
made by Sir Walter Scott, in Quentin 
Durward, an ‘old man,’’? whereas he 
was only eighteen, and a scholar at 
Louvain. He made his entry into his 
see in a scarlet jerkin and cap set jauntily 
on one side. (4. Dumas; Charles the 
Bold.) 

Lunar caustic is not a substance from 
the moon, but is simply nitrate of silver, 
and silver is the astrological symbol of 
the moon. 

Lunatics are not affected by the 
changes of the moon more than other 
invalids. No doubt their disorder has 
its periodicities, but it is not affected by 
the moon. 

Meerschaum. (See MEERSCHAUM, ) 

Mosaic gold has no connection with 
Moses or the metal gold. It is an alloy 
of copper and zinc, used in the ancient 
musivum or tesselated work. 

Mother of pearl is the inner layer of 
several sorts of shell. It is not the 
mother of pearls, as the name indicates, 
but in some cases the matrix of the 


pearl. 
Natives. Oysters raised in artificial 
beds. Surely oysters in their own 


natural beds ought to be called the 
natives. 

Oxygen means the generator of acids, 
but there are acids of which it is not the 


Misnomers 


846 


Misprision 


base, as hydrochloric acid. Indeed, 
chemists now restrict the term acid to 
compounds into which hydrogen enters, 
and oxy-acids are termed salts. 

Pen means a feather. (Latin, penna, 
awing.) A steel pen isnot avery choice 
expression. 

Philippe VT. of France was called ‘‘Le 
bien fortuné,”’ but never was name more 
inappropriate. He was defeated at Sluys 
[Siu-iz], and again at Cressy; he lost 
Calais ; and a fourth of all his subjects 
were carried off by the plague called the 
‘* Black Death.”’ 

Pompey’s Pillar, in Alexandria, was 
erected neither by nor to Pompey. It 
was set up by the Emperor Diocletian, 
according to its inscription. 

Prussian blue does not come. from 
Prussia, but is the precipitate of the salt 
of protoxide of iron with red prussiate 
of potass. 

Rice paper is not made from rice, but 
from the pith of Tung-tsau, or hollow- 
plant, so called because it is hollow when 
the pith has been pushed out. 

Salt is not salt at all, and has long 
been wholly excluded from the class of 
bodies denominated salts. Table-salt is 
‘* chloride of sodium.” 

Salt of lemon is in reality a binoxalate 
af potash, with a little of the quadroxa- 

ate. 

Salts. The substance of which junk 
bottles, French mirrors, window-panes, 
and opera-glasses are made is placed 
among the sa/¢s, but is no salt at all. 

Sand-blind is a mere corruption of sam 
(half) blind. ; 

Scuttle, to open a hole in a ship, means 
really to bolt or bar. (See ScUTTLE.) 

Sealing-wax isnot wax at all, nor does 
it contain a single particle of wax. It is 
made of shellac, Venice turpentine, and 
cinnabar. 

Shrew-mouse is no mouse (ms), but 
belongs to the genus sorer. 

Slave means noble, illustrious (s/av), 
but is now applied to the most ignoble 
and debased. (See Baron.) 

Sovereign. The last syllable of this 
word is incorrect. The word should be 
soverain (Latin, superare ; French, sowv- 
vain), It has no connection with 
“veion ” (Latin, reqgnare). 

Sperm oil properly means “ seed oil,” 
from the notion that it was the spawn 
or melt of a whale. It is chiefly taken 
from the head, not the spawn, of the 
“«spermaceti’’ whale. 

Titmouse (plur. titmice) is no mouse, 
but a bird. (Anglo-Saxon, tite-mase, 
little hedge-sparrow.) 


Toadflax has nothing at all to do with 
toads. It is tod flax, i.e. flax with tods 
or clusters. 

Tonquin beans. A geographical blunder 
for tonka beans, from Tonka, in Guinea, 
not Tonquin, in Asia. 

Turkeys do not come from Turkey, 
but North America, through Spain, or 
India. The French call them ‘‘ dindon,’’: 
i.e. d’ Inde or coq d’ Inde, a term equally 
incorrect. 

Turkey rhubarb neither grows “in 
Turkey, nor is it imported from Turkey. 
It grows in the great mountain chain 
between Tartary and Siberia, and is a 
Russian monopoly. 

Turkish baths are not of Turkish 
origin, nor are they baths, but hot-air 
rooms or therm. 


Vallombro'sa. Milton says :— 


“Thick as autumnal leaves that strew the brooks 
In Vallombrosa.” Paradise Lost, i. 302. 
But the trees of Vallombrosa, being 
pines, do not shed thickly in autumn, 
and the brooks are not strewed with 

their leaves. 

Ventriloquism is not voice from the 
stomach at all, but from the mouth. 

Well-beloved. UWouis XIII. A most 
inappropriate title for this most detest- 
able and detested of all kings. 

Whalebone is no bone at all, nor does 
it possess any properties of bone. It is 
a substance attached to the upper jaw 
of the whale, and serves to strain the 
water which the creature takes up in 
large mouthfuls. 

Wolf’s-bane. A strange corruption. 
Bane is the Teutonic word for all poison- 
ous herbs. The Greeks, mistaking banes 
for beans, translated it /wamos, as they 
did hen-bane (hwos-kuamos). Now 
wolf’s-bane is an aconite, with a pale- 
yellow - flower, and therefore called 
white-bane to distinguish it from the 
blue aconite. The Greek for white is 
leukos, hence ‘‘leukos-kuamos ;”’ but 
lukos is the Greek for wolf, and by a 
blunder Jewskos-uamos (white-bean) got 
muddled into /u/os-kuamos (wolf-bean). 
Botanists, seeing the absurdity of calling 
aconite a bean, restored the original 
word “ bane,’’ but retained the corrupt 
word luios (a wolf), and hence we get 
the name wolf’s-bane for white aconite. 
(HI. Fox Talbot.) 

Wormwood has nothing to do with 
worms or wood; it is the Anglo-Saxon 
wer mod, man-inspiriting, being a strong 
tonic. 


Mispris‘ion. Concealment, neglect 
of, (French, #¢pris.) 


Miss 


847 


Mite 


Misprision of clerks. Mistakes in 
accounts arising from neglect. 

Misprision of felony. Neglecting to 
reveal a felony when known. 

Misprision of treason. Neglecting to 
disclose or purposely concealing a trea- 
sonable design. 


Miss, Mistress, Mrs. (masteress, 
lady-master).. Miss used to be written 
Mis, and is the first syllable of Mistress ; 
Mrs. is the contraction of mistress, called 
Mis’ess. Even in the reign of George II. 
unmarried ladies used to be styled Mrs. ; 
as, Mrs. Lepel, Mrs. Bellenden,-~ Mrs. 
Blount, all unmarried ladies. (See Pope's 
Letters.) 

Early in Charles IT.’s reign, Evelyn 
tells us that ‘‘ lewd women began to be 
styled Misse;’’? now Mistress is more 
frequently applied to them. (See Lap.) 


Miss is as Good as a Mile (4). A 
failure is a failure be it ever so little, 
and is no more be it ever so great; a 
narrow escape is an escape, and a more 
easy one isno more. If I miss the train 
by one minute, I miss it as much as if it 
had run a mile from the station; and if 
I escape an evil by the skin of my teeth, 
I escape, and he who escapes it easily 
does no more. 

Missing Link (716). According to 
Darwin, the higher animals are de- 
veloped from the lower ones. The 
lowest form of animal life is proto- 
plasm, which develops into amcebe 
(cell life), and thence, successively, into 
synamcebe, gastrula, hydra, medusa, 
worms, hematega, ascidians, fish, amphi- 
bians, birds and reptiles, monotremata, 
marsupials, placental mammals, lemu- 
ride, monkeys [missing link], man. 


Mississip’pi Bubble. The French 
**South-Sea Scheme,’’ and equally dis- 
astrous. It was projected by John Law, 
a Scotchman, and had for its object the 
payment of the National Debt of France, 
which amounted to 208 millions sterling, 
on being granted the exclusive trade of 
Louisia’na, on the banks of the Missis- 
sippi. (1717-1720.) (See SourH Ska.) 

Mis'tletoe. Shakespeare calls it ‘‘ the 
baleful mistletoe’? (Litus Andronicus, 
ii, 3), in allusion to the Scandinavian 
story that it was with an arrow made 
of mistletoe that Balder was slain. (Sve 
Kissinc UNDER THE MISTLETOE.) 

The word mistletoe is a corruption of 
mistel-ta, where mist is the German for 
‘‘dung,”’ or rather the ‘‘ droppings of a 
bird,”’ from the notion that the plant 
was so propagated, especially by the 


missel-thrush. Zw is for tan, Old Norse 
tein, meaning ‘‘ a plant ”’ or ‘* shoot.”’ 


Mistletoe Bough. The talereferred 
to in this song, about Lord Lovel’s 
daughter, is related by Rogers in his 
Italy, where the lady is called ‘‘ Gi- 
nevra.’’ <A similar narrative is given 
by Collet in his Relics of Literature, and 
another is among the Causes Célébres. 

Marwell Old Hall, once the residence 
of the Seymour, and afterwards of the 
Dacre family, has a similar tradition 
attached to it, and (according to the 
Post Office. Directory) ‘‘ the very chest 
became the property of the Rev. J.. 
Haygarth, a rector of Upham.” - : 

Mistress Roper. The Marines, or 
any one of them; so called by the 
regular sailors, because they handle the 
ropes like girls, not being used to them. © 

Mistress of the Night (7/c). The 
tuberose is so called- because it emits its 
strongest fragrance after sunset. Some-- 
times, on a sultry evening, when the 
atmosphere is highly electrified, the 
fading flowers of the tuberose emit 
sparks of lucid flame. 

(In the language of flowers, the tube- 
rose signifies ‘‘ the pleasures of love.’’) 


Mistress of the World. Ancient 
Rome was so called, because all the 
known world gave it allegiance. 

Mita. Sister of Aude, surnamed 
“‘the Little Knight of Pearls,’’ in love 
with Sir Miton de Rennes, Roland’s 
friend, Charlemagne greeted her after 
a tournament with the Saracens at 
Fronsac, saying, ‘‘ Rise, Countess of 
Rennes.’? Mita and Sir Miton were 
the parents of Mitaine (¢.v.).  (Croque- 
nutaine, XV.) 

Mitaine. Godchild of Charlemagne ; 
her parents were Mita and Miton, Count 
and Countess of Rennes. She went in 
search of Fear fortress, and found that 
it only existed in the minds of the fear- 
ful, vanishing into thin air as it was 
approached by a bold heart and clear 
conscience. Charlemagne made her for 
this achievement Roland’s squire, and 
she followed him on her horse Vaillant 
to Spain, and fell in the attack at Ron- 
cesvalles. (Croquemitaine, pt. 111.) 

Mite. Sir Matthew Mite. A purse- 
proud East Indian merchant, who gives 
his servants the most costly exotics, and 
overpowers everyone with the profusion 
of his wealth. (iS, Foote: The Nabob.) 

Lady Oldham says: “He comes amongst us 
preceded by all the pomp of Asia. Profusely 


scattering the spoils of conquered provinces, cor- 
rupting the virtue, and alienating the affections 


) 


| ofall the old friends of the family,” 


Mithra 


848 


Moat 


Mith’ra or Mith’ras. The highest of 
the twenty-eight second-class divinities 
of the ancient Persians, and the ruler 
of the universe. Sometimes used as a 
synonym for the sun. The word means 
Sriend, and this deity is so called because 
he befriends man in this life, and pro- 
tects him against evil spirits after death. 
He is represented as a young man with 
a Phrygian cap, a tunic, a mantle on his 
left shoulder, and plunging a sword into 
the neck of a bull. (Sanskrit, mitram, 
a friend.) (See Thcbais, i.) 


Mith’ridate (5 syl.). <A confection 
said to be invented by Mithrida’tés, King 
of Pontus and Bithyn’ia, as an antidote 
to poison. It contains seventy-two in- 
eredients. 

“What brave spirit could be content to sit in 
his shop.... selling Mithridatum and dragon's 
water to infected houses ?”—Knight of the Burning 
Pestle. (1635.) 

Mitre. The episcopal mitre sym- 
bolises the cloven tongues of fire which 
descended on the apostles on the day of 
Pentecost. (Acts ii. 1-12.) Greek and 
Latin, mitra, a turban. 


Mitre Tavern (7Z/c). 
resort in the time of Shakespeare ; 
was in Bread Street, Cheapside. 


Mitten. Zhe Pardoner’s mitten. Who- 
ever put this mitten on would be sure to 
thrive in all things. 

“ He that his hondé put in this metayn, 

He shal have multiplying of his grayn, 

Whan he hath sowen, be it whete or otes, 

So that ye offre pans [pence] or ellés grootes.” 

Chaucer: Prologue to The Pardoneres Tale. 

To give one the mitten. To reject a 
sweetheart; to jilt. (Latin, mtto, to 
send [about your business], whence dis- 
missal; to get your dismissal.) Some 
say, it is to get the mitten instead of 
the hand. 


“There isa young lady I have set my heart on, 
though whether she is going to give me hern, or 
give me the mitten, I ain’t quite satisfied.’—Sam 
Slick: Human Nature, p. 90. 

ΚΤ don’t believe but what that Hammond girl’s 
given him the mitten, else he wouldn't a come, 
1 wouldn’t play second fiddle for any fellow.’ 

M. E.-Wilkins: A Tardy Thanksgiving (Ameri- 
can). 

Mit'timus (Latin). A command in 
writing toa gaoler, to keep the person 
named in safe custody, Also a writ for 
removing a record from one court to 
another, So called from the first ent 
of the writ, ‘‘Mittimus” (i.e. W 


sendb στ. 


Mitton. Zhe Chapter of Mitton. So 
the battle of Mitton was called, because 
so many priests took part therein. Hailes 
says that ‘‘three hundred ecclesiastics 


A place of 
it 


fell in this battle, which was fought 
September 20th, 1319.”’ 

‘So many priests took part in the fight that 
the Scots called it the Chapter of Mitton—a meet- 
ing of the clergymen belonging to a cathedral 
being called a chapters! ’—Sir Walter Scott: Tales 
of a Grandfather, » 


Mixon. cite 
than over the Moor. 


wed over the Mixon 
(See MIDDEN.) 


Mizentop, maintop, foretop. To 
serve in the mizentop is to be in the 
lowest degree; to serve in the foretop 
is to be coxswain ; captain’s coxswain 
or captain of the foretop is the highest 
degree below an officer. 

Ὁ The mizenmast is the aftermost 
mast of a ship; the foremast is in the 
forward part of a ship; the mainmast 
is between these two. 


“He was put into the mizentop, and served 
three years in the West Indies ;j thent he; was 
tra isferred to the maintop, and served five 
years in the Mediterranean; and then he was 
le captain οὐ the foretop, and served six 

years in the East Indies; and at. last he was 
rated captain's coxswain in the Druid frigate,” 
Capt. Marryat: Poor Jack, chap. i. 

Mjolnir (pron. yovul-ner),  Thor’s 
hammer. (See MIoLNER.) 


Mnemos’yne (4 syl.). Goddess of 
memory and mother of the nine Muses. 
(Classical mythology.) The best repre- 
sentation of this goddess is by A. R. 
Mengs, the ‘‘ Raphael of Germany ”’ 
(1720-1779). 

Moahite Stone (7/ic). Presented to 
the British Museum by the museum of 
the Louvre. It was discovered by the 
Rey. F. Klein at Dibhan in August, 
1868, and is 3 feet 10 inches high, 2 feet 
broad, and 144 inches thick. The Arabs 
resented its removal, and splintered it 
into fragments, but it has been restored. 
The inscription, consisting of forty-four 
lines, gives an account ‘of the war of 
Mesha, King of Moab, against Omri, 
Ahab, ‘and other kings of Israel. Mesha 
sacrificed his eldest son on the city wall 
in view of the invading Israelites. He 
set up this stone at Kermost B.c. 900. 


Moakkibat. A class of angels, ac- 
cording to the Mahometan mythology. 
Two angels of this class attend every 
child of Adam from the cradle to the 
grave. At sunset they fly up with the 
record of the deeds done since sunrise. 
Every good deed is entered ten times by 
the recording angel on the credit or 
right side οὗ his ledger, but when an 
evil deed is reported the angel waits 
seven hours, ‘‘if haply in that time the 
evil-doer may repent.”’” (Zhe Koran.) 


Moat. (See under BATTLE.) 


Mob 


849 Mohocks 


Mob. A contraction of the Latin 
mo'bile valgus (the fickle crowd). The 
term was first applied to the people by 
the members of the Green-ribbon Club, 
in the reign of Charles II. (Northern 
Examiner, p. 74.) 


Mob-cap (4). Is a plain cap, from 
Dutch mob =a cap, Probably mop is 
another form of the same word, and 
all come from the Latin mappa (a clout), 
whence our word map (a drawing on 
cloth), in contradistinction to a cartoon 
(a drawing on paper). 

Mobilise. To render soldiers lable 
to be moved on service out of the town 
where they live ; to call into active ser- 
vice men enrolled but not on the war 
establishment. (Latin, modilis.) 


Mock-beggar Hall or Manor. A 
grand, ostentatious house, where no 
hospitality is afforded, neither is any 
charity given. 

“No times observed, nor charitable lawes, 

The poor receive their answer from the dawes, 

Who, in their cawing language, call it plaine 

Mock-begger Manour, for they come in vaine.” 

Taylor: Workes. 

Mockery. ‘Jt will be a delusion, a 
mockery, and a snare.’ Thomas, Lord 
Denman, in his judgment on the case of 
O’Connell v. The Queen. 


Modality, in scholastic philosophy, 
means the mode in which anything exists. 
Kant divides our judgment into three 
modalities: (1) Problematic, touching 
possible events; (2) Assertoric, touch- 
ing real events; (3) dApodictic, touching 
necessary events. 

Modish (Lady Betty), in The Careless 
Husband, by Cibber. The name ex- 
plains the character. This was Mrs. 
Oldfield’s favourite character, and The 
Tatler (No. 10) accordingly calls this 
charming actress ‘‘ Lady Betty Modish.”’ 
(See NARCISSA. ) 


Mo'do. The fiend that urges to mur- 
der, and one of the five that possessed 
**Poor Tom.”? (See Manu.) (Shake- 
speare: Bing Lear, iv. 1.) 


Mo’dred, in the romance of The 
Round Table, is represented as the trea- 
cherous knight. He revolted from his 
Uncle Arthur, whose wife he seduced, 
was mortally wounded in the battle of 
Camlan, in Cornwall, and was buried in 
the island of Avalon. 

Sir Modred. The nephew of King 
Arthur, He hated Sir Lancelot, sowed 
discord amongst the Knights of the 
Round Table, and tampered with the 


‘*lords of the White Horse,” the brood | 


54 


that Hengist left. When the king went 
to chastise Sir Lancelot for tampering 
with the queen, he left Sir Modred in 
charge of the kingdom. Modred raised 
a revolt, and the king was slain in his 
attempt to quash it. (Zennyson : Ldylls 
of the King ; Guinevere.) 


Mods. In Oxford a contracted form 
of moderations. The three necessary ex- 
aminations in Oxford are the Smalls, 
the Mods, and the Greats. No one can 
take a class till he has passed the Mods. 
There are no Mods at Cambridge. 

“While I was reading for Mods T was not so 
unsettled in my mind.”—Grant Allen: The Back- 
slider, part 1:1. 

Mo'dus Operandi (Latin), The 
mode of operation’; the way in which a 
thing is done or should be done. 


Modus Vivendi (4). A mutual ar- 
rangement whereby persons not at the 
time being on friendly terms can be 
induced to live together in harmony. 
This may apply to individuals, to socie- 
ties, or to peoples (as the South Africans 
and the Boers). 


Mofus'sil (Kast Indies). The sub- 
ordinate divisions of a district ; the seat 
of government being called sudder. Pro- 
vincial. 

“To tell a man that fatal charzes have been 
laid against bim,and refuse him an opportunity 
for explanation, this is not even Mofussil justice.” 
—The Times. 

Mogul Cards. The best playing- 
cards were so called because the wrapper, 
or ‘‘ duty card’? (when cards were sub- 
ject to excise duty) contained the por- 
trait of the Great Mogul. Those cards 
which contained some mark, speck, 
or other imperfection, were called 
‘* Harrys.” 

Moha‘di [Jlohammed). The twelfth 
Imaun, who is said to be living in con- 
cealment till Antichrist appears, when he 
will come again and overthrow the great 
enemy. 


Mohair. (Probably the Arabic muh- 
hayyar, goat’s-hair cloth.) It is the hair 
of the Ango’ra goat, introduced into 
Spain by the Moors, and thence brought 
into Germany. 


Mohak’abad’ (4/). Abu-Rihan, 
the geographer and astronomer in the 
eleventh century. 

Mohocks. A class of ruffians who in 
the 18th century infested the streets of 
London. So called from the Indian Mo- 
hawks. One of their ‘‘ new inventions “ἢ 
was to roll persons down Snow Hill in a 


Mohun 


850 


Moloch 


tub ; another was to overturn coaches on 
rubbish-heaps. (See Gay - Trivia, iii.) 

A vivid picture of the misdoings in the 
streets of London by these and other 
brawlers is given in Zhe Spectator, No. 
924, 
“You sent your Mohocks next abroad, 

With razors armed, and knives ; 
Who on night-walkers made inroad, 
And scared our maids and wives ; 
They scared the watch,and windows broke. . . 
Plot upon Plot (about 1713). 

Mohun. Captain Hill and Lord 
Mohun made a dastardly attack on an 
actor named Mountford, on his way to 
Mrs. Bracegirdle’s house in Howard 
Street. Hill was jealous of the actor, 
and induced the ‘noble lord”? to join 
him in this ‘‘ valiant quarrel.’? Mount- 
ford died next day. Hill fled, and was 
never heard of more; Mohun was tried 
for his life, but acquitted. (Sve Issa- 
cHAR.) (Howell: State Trials, vol. xii. 
p. 947.) 


Mohyronus (/dricius). Said to cure 
wounds bysympathy. He did not apply 
his powder to the wounds, but to a cloth 
dipped in the blood, 


Moiré Antique (French) is silk, etc., 
moiré (watered) in the antique style, or 
to resemble the material worn in olden 
times. The figuring of tin like frost- 
work or scales is called moiré métallique. 


Mokan/na. [cc KHoRAssAN. | 


Moliére. 7.6 Italian Molicre. Carlo 
Goldon! (1707-1793). 

The Spanish Moliere. Teandro Fer- 
nandez Moratin (1760-1828). 


Mo'linism. The system of grace 
and election taught by Louis Mo'lina, the 
Spanish Jesuit (1535-1600). 

“Those Jansenists, re-nicknamed Molinists.” 

Browning : The Ring and the Book. 

Moll (Aentish). Mary Carlson, com- 
monly known as the German Princess. 
She was sentenced to transportation, but, 
being found at large, was hanged at 
Tyburn in 1672. 


Moll Cutpurse. Mary Frith, a 
woman of masculine vigour, who not 
unfrequently assumed man’s attire. 
She was a notorious thief and cutpurse, 
who once attacked General Fairfax on 
Hounslow Heath, for which she was 
sent to Newgate. She escaped by 
bribery, and died at last of dropsy in the 
seventy-fifth year of her age. (Time of 
Charles 1.) 


Moll Flanders. A woman of extra- 
ordinary beauty, born in the Old Bailey. 
She was twelve years a courtesan, five 


” 


times a wife, twelve years a thief, eight 
years a transport in Virginia ; but ulti- 
mately grew rich, lived honestly, and died 
a penitent. (Charles II.’s reign.) (Sce 
Daniel Defoe’s Moll Flanders.) 


Moll Thomson’s Mark. As ‘Take 
away this bottle, it has Moll Thomson’s 
mark on it.’’? Moll Thomson is M. ἽΝ 


(empty). 


Molly. He's a regular Molly. Said 
of a man or big boy who betties or inter- 
feres with women’s work, such as kitchen 
business, dressmaking, personal decora- 
tion, and so on. 


Molly Coddle (4). A pampered 
creature, afraid that the winds of heaven 
should visit him too roughly; though a 
mnale, a Molly ; not a valetudinarian, but 
ever fearing lest he should be so. 


Molly Maguires. An Irish secret 
society organised in 1843. Stout, active 
young Irishmen, dressed up in women’s 
clothes, blackened faces, and otherwise 
disguised, to surprise those employed to 
entorce the payment of rents. Their 
victims were ducked in bog-holes, and 
many were beaten most unmercifully. 

“The judge who tried the murderer was elected 
by the Molly Maguires ; the jurors who assisted 
him were themselves Molly Maguires, A score of 
Molly Maguires came forward to swear that the 
assassin Was sixty miles from the spot on which 
he had been seen to fire at William Dunn,. ..and 
the jurors returned a verdict of Not Guilty.”—W. 
Hepworth Divon: New America, il. 28. 

Molly Mog. This celebrated beauty 
was an innkeeper’s daughter, at Oaking- 
ham, Berks. She was the toast of all 
the gay sparks, in the former half of the 
eighteenth century, and died in 1766, at 
an advanced age. Gay has a ballad on 
this Fair Maid of the Inn. 

Molly Mog died at the age of sixty- 
seven, a spinster; Mr, Standen, of Ar- 
borfield, the enamoured swain alluded to 
in the ballad, died 1730. It is said that 
Molly’s sister Sally was the greater 


beauty. A portrait of Gay still hangs 
in the inn, 
Molmu'tius. A mythical king of 


Britain, who promulgated the laws called 
the Molmutine, and established the 
privilege of sanctuary. He is alluded to 
in Cynibeline, ii. 1 (Shakespeare). 


Moloch. Any influence which de- 
mands from us the sacrifice of what we 
hold most dear. Thus, a7 is a Moloch, 
king mob is a Moloch, the gi/lotine was 
the Moloch of the French Revolution, etc. 
The allusion is to the god of the Am- 
mouites, to whom children were ‘* made 


Moly 


851 


Money 


to pass through the fire’’ in sacrifice. 
Milton says he was ‘‘ worshipped in 
Rabba, in Argob, and Basan, to the 
stream of utmost Arnon.” (Paradise 
Lost, book 1. 392-398.) 


Moly. Wild garlic, called sorcerer’s 
garlic. There are many sorts, all of 
which flower in May, except ‘‘ the sweet 
moly of Montpelier,’’ which blossoms in 
September. The most noted are ‘the 
great moly of Homer,” the Indian moly, 
the moly of Hungary, serpent’s moly, 
the yellow moly, Spanish purple moly, 
Spanish silvyer-capped moly, and Dios- 
cor’ides’s moly. Pope describes it and its 
effects in one of his odes, and Milton 
refers to it in his Comes, (Greek, molv.) 

“That moly 
That Hermés once to wise Ulysses gave.” 
Milton: Comus, 655-6. 

Mome (lech), says Cotgrave, is a 
Momus, find-fault, carping fellow. So 
called from Momus, the god of raillery. 

“ Or cessent donques les momes, 
De mordre les escrits miens.” 
J. du Belluy: A. P. de Ronsard. 

Mo’miers (French, men of mummery). 
An Evangelical party of Switzerland, 
somewhat resembling our Methodists. 
They arose in 1818, and made way both 
in Germany and France. 


Mommur. The realm pf O’beron. 
(Middle Age romance.) 


Mo’mus. One who carps at every- 
thing. Momus, the sleepy god, was 
always railing and carping. 

Momus, being asked to pass judgment on the 
relative merits of Neptune, Vulcan, and Minerya, 
railed at them all. He said the horns of a bull 
ought to have been placed in the shoulders, where 
they would have been of much greater force ; as 
for man, he said Jupiter ought to have made him 


with a window in his breast, whereby his real 
thoughts might be revealed. Hence Dr. Gray 
Says that every unreasonable carper is called a 
“Momus.” 

Momus’s Lattice or Window. 
Momus blamed Vulean because he did 
not set a window or lattice in the human 
breast for discerning secret thoughts, 

“Were Momus’ lattice in our breasts ‘a 


Byron: Werner, iii. δ 

Mo’naciel'lo [/iftle monk]. A sort 
of incubus in the mythology of Naples. 
It is described as a thick little man, 
dressed in a monk’s garment and broad- 
brimmed hat. Those who will follow 
when he beckons will be led to a spot 
where treasure is concealed. Sometimes, 
however, it is his pleasure to pull the 
bed-clothes off, and sometimes to sit 
perched on a sleeper. 


Monarchi'ans. A theological party 
of the third century, who maintained 


that God is one, immutable and primary. 
Their opponents turned upon them, and 
nicknamed them Patripdssians (q.v.), 
saying that according to such a doctrine 
God the Father must have suffered on 
the cross. 


Monarchy. Jifth-monarchy men. 
Those who believed that the second 
coming of Christ was at hand, and that 
at His second coming He would establish 
the fifth universal monarchy. The five 
are these: the Assyrian, the Persian, 
the Macedonian, the Roman, and the 
Millennium. 


Monday Pops. A contraction of 
“Monday Populars,’’ meaning popular 
concerts for classical music, mtroduced 
at St. James’s Hall by Mr. Arthur 
Chappell in 1858. There are Saturday 
Pops also, 


Money. Shortly after the Gallic in- 
vasion, Lucius Furius built a temple to 
Juno Moue’ta (the Jonitress) on the spot 
where the house of Manlius Capitolinus 
stood. This spot of the Capitol was 
selected because Manlius was the first 
man alarmed by the cackling of the 
sacred geese. This temple was subse- 
quently converted into a mint, and the 
ΚΕ ases’’ there coined were called monceta. 

** Juno is represented on medals with 
instruments of coinage, as the hammer, 
anvil, pincers, and die. (See Livy, vii. 
28, and Cicero, De Divinitate, i. 15.) 

The oldest coin of Greece bore the im- 
press of anox. Hencea bribe for silence 
was said to be an ‘‘ ox on the tongue.”’ 
Subsequently each province had its own 
impress : 

Athens, an owl (the bird of wisdom). 
Beeotia, Bacchus (the vineyard of Greece). 
Delphos, a dolphin. 
Macedonia, a buckler (from its love of war). 
_ Rhodes, the disc of the sun (the Colossus was an 
image to the sun). 

Rome had a different impress for each 
coin: 

For the As, the head of Janus on one side, aud 
the prow of a ship on the reverse. 

The Semi-as, the head of Jupiter and the 
letter 5. 

The Triens. the head of a woman (ἢ Rome or 
Minerva) and four points to denote four ounces, 

The Quadrans, the lead of Hercules and three 
points to denote three ounces. 

The Sextus, the head of Mercury, and two 
points to denote two ounces. 

Bowed money. 
pledge of love. 

“Taking forth a bowed groat and an old penny 
bowed he gave it [sic] her.” —Coney-catchings 
(Time, Elizabeth.) 

Money makes the Mare to go, 

(See MaRE.) 


Bent coin, given asa 


Monimia 


852 


Monim’‘ia, in Otway’s tragedy of 
The Orphan. Sir Walter Scott says, 
“More tears have been shed for the 
sorrows of Monimia, than for those of 
Juliet and Desdemona.”’ 


Monism. The doctrine of the oneness 
of mind and matter, God and the uni- 
verse. It ignores all that is supernatural, 
and the dualism of mind and matter, God 
and creation ; and, as this is the case, 
of course, there can be no opposition 
between God and the world, as unity 
cannot be in opposition to itself. Monism 
teaches that ‘‘all are but parts of one 
stupendous whole, whose body nature is, 
and God the soul ;’’ hence, whatever is, 
only conforms to the cosmical laws of 
the universal ALL. 

Haeckel, of Jena, in 1866, revived this 
theory, and explains it thus: ‘* Monism 
(the correlative of Dualism) denotes a 
unitary conception, in opposition to a 
supernatural one. Mind can never exist 
without matter, nor matter without 
mind,”? As Godisthe same ‘‘ yesterday, 
to-day, and for ever,’’ creation must be 
the same, or God would not be un- 
changeable. 


Monitor. So the Romans called the 
nursery teacher. The Military Monitor 
was an officer to tell young soldiers of 
the faults committed against the service. 
The House Monitor was a slave to call 
the family of a morning, to amnounce 
meal-times, and so on. 

Monitor, A warship resembling a raft, 
with a movable turret. 


Monk, in printing, is a black smear 
or blotch made by leaving too much ink 
on the part. Caxton set up his printing- 
press in the seripto'viwn of Westminster 
Abbey ; and the associations of this 
place gave rise to the slang expressions 
monk and friar for black and white 
defects. (Sce FRIAR, CHAPEL.) 

Give a man a@ monk (French, ‘Lay 
bailler le moyne).’? To do one a mischief. 
Rabelais says that Grangousier (after 
the battle of Picrocho'le) asked ‘* what 
was become of Friar John ;”’ to which 
Gargantua replied, ‘‘No doubt the 
enemy has the mouk,”’ alluding to the 
pugnacious feats of this wonderful 
churchman, who knocked men down 
likeninepins. (Rabelais : Gargantua and 
Pantagruel, book i. 45.) 


Monk Lewis. Matthew Gregory 
Lewis is so called from his novel en- 
titled The Monk. (1773-1818.) 


Monk listening to a Bird. 


(See 
FrELIx, HILDESHEIM.) 


Monkey Spoons 


Richard of 
(Fourteenth 


Monk of Westminster. 
Cirencester, the historian. 
century.) 


Monkey (4). £500. (See MARYGOLD,) 


Monkey = the Devil ; an imp of mis- 
chief. Hence, a meddlesome child is 
spoken to as ‘‘ you little monkey; ”’ 
and is called ‘‘ a regular imp,’’ or “imp 
of mischief,’”’ The allusion is to the 
old drawings of devils, with long tails 
and monkey ugliness. 

To get (or have) one’s monkey up. To 
be riled. Here the allusion is also to 
the devil or evil spirit in man; he will 
be ‘fin a devil of a temper.’”? Even 
taken literally, monkeys are extremely 
irritable and easily provoked. 


Monkey, in sailor language, is the 
vessel which contains the full allowance 
of grog. Halliwell (Archaic Dictionary) 
has— 

“ Moncorn, ‘ Beere corne, barley bygge, or mon- 
corne.’ ”"—(15a2.) 

To suck the monkey, Sailors call the 
vessel which contains their full allow- 
ance of grog ‘‘a monkey.’’ Hence, to 
““suck the monkey” is surreptitiously 
to suck liquor from a cask through a 
straw. Again, when the milk has been 
taken from a cocoanut, and rum has 


| been substituted, ‘‘sucking the monkey ”’ 


means driiking this rum. Probably 
‘monkey ”’ in all such cases is a cor- 
ruption of moncorn (ale or beer). (See 
Marryat’s Peter Simple.) (See Monkey 
SPOONS.) 


Monkey Board. The step behind 
an omnibus on which the conductor 
stands, or rather skips about like a 
monkey. 


Monkey Boat. A long, narrow boat. 


Monkey Jacket. A coat with no 
more tail than ἃ monkey, or, more strictly 
speaking, an ape. 

Monkey-puzzle. ‘The name given 
to a Chilian, pine, whose twisted and 
prickly branches puzzle even a monkey 
to climb. 


Monkey Spoons. Spoons at one 
time given in Holland at marriages, 
christenings, and funerals. They may 
still be picked up occasionally at cu- _ 
riosity shops. The spoon at weddings 
was given to some Immediate relative of 
the bride, and just below the monkey on 
the handle was a heart. At funerals 
the spoon was given to the officiating 
clergyman. Among the Dutch, drink- 
ing is called ‘‘sucking the monkey”’ 


Monkey 


853 


Monsoon 


(zuiging de monky), and one fond of 
drink was called ‘‘a monkey sucker.” 
The Dutchman began the day with an 
appetiser—i.¢. rum, with a pinch of salt, 
served in a monkey spoon (monky lépel); 
and these appetisers were freely used at 
weddings, christenings, and funerals. 


Monkey with a Long Tail (4). 
A mortgage. A monkey (q.v.) is slang 
for £500. 

Monkey’s Allowance. More kicks 
than halfpence. The allusion is to the 
monkeys carried about for show; they 
pick up the halfpence, but carry them 
to the master, who keeps kicking or 
ill-treating the poor creatures to urge 
them to incessant tricks. 


Monkey’s Money. J will pay you in 
monkey’s money (‘*en monnaie de singe’’) 
—in goods, in personal work, in mumb- 
ling and grimace. The French had a 
law that when a monkey passed the 
Petit Pont, of Paris, if it was for sale it 
was to pay four deniers (two-thirds of a 
penny) for toll; but if it belonged to a 
showman and was not for sale, it should 
suffice if the monkey went through his 
tricks, 

“Tt was an original by Master Charles Char- 
mois, principal painter to King Megistus [of 
France], paid for in court fashion with monkey’s 
AUS Se δ Lae Gargantua and Pantagrucl, 

Mon‘kir and Na’kir, according to 
Mahometan mythology, are two angels 
who interrogate the dead immediately 
they are buried. The first two questions 
they ask are, ‘‘ Whois your Lord ?”’ and 
““Who is your prophet ἢ Their voices 
are like thunder, their aspects hideous, 
and those not approved of they lash into 
perdition with whips ha/f-iron and half- 
Jlame. (See MunKar.) 

“Do you not see those spectres that are stirring 
the burning coals? They are Monkir and Nakir,” 
—Beckford: Vathek. 

Monmouth. The town at the mouth 
of the Monnow. 

Monmouth. 'Thesurname of Henry V. 
of England, who was born there. 


Monmouth Cap. A soldier’s cap. 
“The soldiers that the Monmouth wear, 
On castles’ tops their ensigns rear.” 

“The best caps were formerly made at Mon- 
mouth, where the cappers’ chapel doth still re- 
main.” —Fuller: Worthies of Wales, p. 50. 

Monmouth Street (London) takes 
its name from the unfortunate son of 
Charles II., executed for rebellion in 
1685. Now Dudley Street. 


Monnaie de Basoche. Worth- 
less coin; coin not current; counters. 
“ Brummagem halfpennies.’’ Coins were 


at one time made and circulated by the 
lawyers of France, which had no cur- 
rency beyond their own community. 
(See BASOCHIANS. ) 


Mono’nia (3 syl.). Munster. 


“Remember the glories of Brien the bray 
Though the days of the hero are o'er, 
Though lost to Mononia, and cold in the grave, 
He returns to Kinko’ra [his palace] no more.” 
T. Moore : Lrish Melodies, No. |. 


Monoph’agous. The eater of one 
sort of food only. (Greek, monos pha- 
gein.) 


Monoph'ysites (4 syl.). A religious 
sect in the Levant, who maintained that 
Jesus Christ had only one nature, and 
that divine and human were combined 
in much the same way as the body and 
soul imman. (Greek, monos phusis, one 
nature.) 


Monoth’elism consisted in the doc- 
trine that, although Christ has two dis- 
tinct natures, He never had but one wil/, 
His human will being merged in the 
divine, (Greek, monos-thelema, one single 
will.) 


Monroe Doctrine. “The American 
States are never to entangle themselves 
in the broils of Europe, nor to suffer the 
powers of the Old World to interfere in 
the affairs of the New; and they,are to 
account any attempt on the part of the 
Old World to plant their systems of 
government in any part of North Ame- 
rica dangerous to American peace and 
safety. James Monroe was twice pre- 
sident of the United States. (1816 and 
1820.) 

Monsieur. Philippe, Duc d’Orléans, 
brother to Louis XIV., was called Jon- 
sieur ; other gentlemen were only Mon- 
sieur This or That. (1674-1723.) 

Monsieur le Coadjutew. Paul de Gondi, 
afterwards Cardinal de Retz (Ress). 
(1614-1679.) 

Monsieur le Duc. THenri-Jules de 
Bourbon, eldest son of the Prince de 
Condé, (1692-1740.) 

Monsieur le Grand, The Great Equerry 
of France. 

Monsiewr le Prince. Prince de Condé 
(1621-1686). (Sve MapAme.) 


Monsieur de Paris. The public 
executioner or Jack Ketch of France. 


“ Riceardo de Albertes was a personal friend of 
all the ‘Messieurs de Paris,’ who served the Re- 
public. He attended all ital executions, and 
possesses a curious library.”—Newspaper Pura- 
graph, January 25th, 1893. 


Monsoon is a corruption of the Malay 
word mooseem (year or season), For six 


Monster 


months it is a north-east trade-wind, and 
for six months a south-west. 


Monster (716). Renwick Williams, 
a wretch who used to prowl about Lon- 
don, wounding respectable women with 
a double-edged knife. He was con- 
victed of several offences in July, 1790. 

The green-cyed monster. Jealousy ; so 
called by Shakespeare in Othello. 

“Beware of Jealousy | 
It isa green-eyed monster that doth mock 
The meat it feeds on.” Act iii. 3. 

Monsters. See each under its name, 
as COCKATRICE, CHICHIVACHE, CHIMMRA, 
ete. 

Mont, in chiromancy, is the technical 
word for the eminences at the roots of 
the fingers. 

That at the root of the 

thumb is the Mont de Mars. 

index finger is the Mont de Jupiter. 
long finger is the Mont de Saturne, 
ring finger is the Mont de Soleil. 
little finger is the Mont de Venus. 

‘* There are two others: one between 
the thumb and index finger, called the 
Mont de Mercure, and one opposite 


called the Mont de Lune. (See FINGER.) 


Mont de Piété. A pawn depét. 
These depots, called ‘‘monti di pieta” 
(charity loans), were first instituted 
under Leo X., at Rome, by charitable 
persons who wished to rescue the poor 
and needy from usurious money-lenders. 
They advanced small sums of money on 
the security of pledges, at a rate of in- 
terest barely sufficient to cover the 
working expenses of the institution. 
Both the name and system were intro- 
duced into France and Spain. The 
model Loan Fund of Ireland is formed 
on the same system. Public granaries 
for the sale of corn are called in Italian 
Monti frumentarii. ‘‘ Monte”? means a 
public or State loan; hence also a 
“ bank.”’ 


Mont St. Michel, in Normandy, 
formerly called Belen. Here nine 
Druidesses sold to sailors the arrows to 
charm away storms. The arrows had to 
be discharged by a young man twenty- 
one years old. 


Montagnards [the mountain party). 
The extreme democratic politicians in 
the French Revolution; so called be- 
cause they occupied the highest tier of 
benches in the hall of the National Con- 
vention. The opposite party sat on the 
level of the floor, called the ‘‘ plain.”’ 


Mon'tague (3 syl.). The head of a 
faction in Vero'na (Shakespeare: Romeo 
and Juliet), The device of the family 


854. Montesinos 


is a mountain with sharply-peaked crest 
(mont-agu or aci). 


Monta‘nists. Heretics of the second 
century; so called from Monta’nus, a 
Phrygian, who asserted that he had re- 
ceived from the Holy Ghost special 
knowledge that had not been vouchsafed 
to the apostles. 


Montan'to. Signior Montanto. A 
master of fence rather than a soldier; a 
tongue-doughty knight. It is a word 
of fence, and hence Ben Jonson says, 
** Your punto, your reverso, your stoccata, 
your imbrocata, your passada, your 
montanto.”’ (Every Manin his Humour.) 


Monteer Cap. So called from s0n- 
tevos εἶ" Espinoza (mountaineers), who 
once formed the interior guard of the 
palace of the Spanish king. The way 
they came to be appointed is thus ac- 
counted for :—Sanchica, wife of Don 
Sancho Garcia, Count of Castile, entered 
into a plot to poison her husband, but 
one of the mountaineers of Espinoza 
revealed the plot and saved the count’s 
life. Ever atter the sovereigns of Castile 
recruited their body-guards from men 
of this estate, 


Monteith’. A scalloped basin to cool 
and wash glasses in; a sort of punch- 
bowl, made of silver or pewter, with a 
movable rim scalloped at the top; so 
called from its inventor, 


“New things produce new names, and tlhius 


Monteith 3 
Has by one vessel saved his name from death.” 
King. 
Montem. A custom formerly ob- 


served every three years by the boys of 
Eton school, who proceeded on Whit 
Tuesday ad montem (to a mound called 
Salt Hill), near the Bath Road, and 
exacted a gratuity called sa/¢ from all 
who passed by. Sometimes as much as 
£1,000 was thus collected. The custom 
was abolished in 1847. 


Monte’ro-cap (4) properly means a 
huntsman’s cap; but Sir Walter Scott 
tells us that Sir Jeffrey Hudson wore ‘‘a 


large Montero hat,’’ meaning a Spanish 


hat with a feather. 
Peak, chap. Xxxv.) 


Montesinos (Zhe Cave of). Close 
to the castle of Rochafrida, to which a 
knight of the same name, who had re- 
ceived some cause of offence at the 
French court, retired. Tradition ascribes 
the river Guadia’na to this cave as its 
source, whence the river is sometimes 
called Montesinos. 


(Peveril of the 


Montezuma’s Realm ‘ 


Ot 


Se 


Months 


Montezu'ma’s Realm. Mexico. 
Montezuma, the last emperor, was seized 
by Cortes, and compelled to acknowledge 
himself a vassal of Spain (1519). 


Montezu'ma’s Watch. A curious 
stone, weighing twenty-four tons, of 
basaltic porphyry, in Mexico. This im- 
mense stone is cut into figures denoting 
the Mexican division of time, and may 
be termed their calendar. 


Montfaucon Watch (4). ““ Le guet 
de Montfaucon.’ A man hanged. Mont- 
faucon is an eminence near Paris, once 
used as the Tyburn or :place of execu- 
tion. At one time it was crowded with 
gibbets, but at the Revolution they 
were destroyed, and it became the dust- 
bin of the city, ‘‘ Une voirie pour les 
immondices de Paris et Véscarrissage des 
chevaux.’’ In 1841 this sink of corrup- 
tion and infection was moved to ‘“ La 
plaine des Vertus,’? surely a strange 
satire on the word. 


Montgomery, in North Wales: so 
called from Roger de Montgomery, Earl 
of Shrewsbury, who won the castle of 
Baldwyn, lieutenant of the marches to 
William the Conqueror. Before this 
time it was called ‘‘ Tre Faldwyn.”’ 

Montgomery's division, all on one side. 
This is a French proverb, and refers to 
the Free Companies of the sixteenth 
century, of which Montgomery was 
a noted chief. The booty he took was 
all given to his banditti, and nothing 
was left to the victims. (See Lion’s 
SHARE.) 


Month of Sundays (4). An inde- 
finite long time ; never. (See NEVER.) 

“Such another chance might never turn up in 
a month of Sundays.”—Boldrewood : Robbery 
Under Arms, chap. x1. 

Month’s Mind (4). An irresistible 
longing (for something) ; a great desire. 

“T see you have a month’s mind for them.’— 
Shakespeare: Two Gentlemen of Verona, i. 2. 

Months. 

January. So called from ‘‘ Janus,’’ 
the Roman deity that kept the gates of 
heaven. The image of Janus is repre- 
sented with two faces looking opposite 
ways. One face is o/d, and is emblema- 
tical of time past ; the other is young, as 
the emblem of time future. The Dutch 
used to call this month Lamnvc-maand 
(frosty-month) ; the Saxons, JV7u/f-mo- 
nath, because wolves were very trouble- 
some then from the great scarcity of 
food. After the introduction of Chris- 
tianity, the name was changed to Sz 
eftera gedla (the after-yule) ; it was also 


JSebruo (to purify). 


called Forma-monath (first month). In 
the French Republican calendar it was 
called Nivése (snow-month, December 
20th to 20th January). 

February. So called from “‘ Februa,’’ 
a name of Juno, from the Sabine word 
Juno was so called 
because she presided over the purifica- 
tion of; women, which took place in 
this month. The Dutch used to term 
the month Spokkel-maand (vegetation - 
month) ; the ancient Saxons, Sprote-cal 
(from the sprouting of pot-wort or kele); 
they changed it subsequently to So/- 
monath (from the returning sun), In 
the French Republican calendar it was 
called Pluvidse (rain-month, 20th January 
to 20th February). 

March. So called from “" Mars,’’ the 
Roman war-god and patron deity. The 
old Dutch name for it was Lent-maand 
(lengthening-month), because the days 
sensibly lengthen ; the old Saxon name 
was Hréth-monath (rough month, from 
its boisterous winds); the name was 
subsequently changed to Length-monath 
(lengthening month) ; it was also called 
Hlyd-monath (boisterous-month). In 
the French Republican calendar it was 
called Ventése (windy-month, February 
20th to March 20th). 

April. So called from the Latin 
aperio (to open), in allusion to the 
unfolding of the leaves. The old Dutch 
name was Gras-maand (grass-month) ; 
the old Saxon, Easter-monath (orient or 
paschal-month). In the French Repub- 
lican calendar it was called Germinal 
(the time of budding, March 21st to the 
19th of April). 

May is the old Latin magius, softened 


into maius, similar to the Sanskrit mah 


(to grow), that is, the growing-month. 
The old Dutch name was Blou-maand 
(blossoming month); the Old Saxon, 7᾽)»- 
milehi (three milch), because cows were 
milked thrice a day in this month. In 
the French Republican calendar the 
month was called .Floréal (the time of 
flowers, April 20th to May 20th). 

June, So called from the ‘‘ junio’res”’ 
or soldiers of the state, not from Juno, 
the queen-goddess. The old Dutch name 
was Zomer-maand (summer-month) ; the 
old Saxon, Sere-monath (dry-month), and 
Iida-erra (joy-time). In the French 
Republican calendar the month was 
called Prairial (meadow-month, May 
20th to June 18th), 

July. Mark Antony gave this month 
the name of Julius, from Julius Cesar, 
who was born in it. It had been pre- 
viously called Quinti’lis (fifth-month), 


Months 


856 


Monumental Effigies 


The old Dutch name for it was /Hooy- 
maand (hay-month); the old Saxon, 
Mad-monath (because the cattle were 
turned into the meadows to feed), and 
Lida eftevy (the second mild or genial 
month). In the French Republican 
calendar it was called Aessidor (harvest- 
month, June 19th to July 18th). 

August. So called in honour of Au- 
gustus Cesar; not because it was his 
birth-month, but because it was the 
month in which he entered upon his first 
consulship, celebrated three triumphs, 
received the oath of allegiance from the 
legions which occupied the Janic’ulum, 
reduced Egypt, and put an end to the 
civil wars. He was born in September. 
The old Dutch name for August was Oost- 
maand (harvest-month); the old Saxon, 
Weod-monath (weed-month, where weed 
signifies vegetation in general. In the 
French Republican calendar it was called 
Ther-midoy (hot-mouth, July 19th to 
August 17th). 

September. The seventh month from 
March, where the year used to com- 
mence, The old Dutch name was Herst- 
maand (antumn-month) ; the old Saxon, 
Gerst-monath (barley-monath), or Ha@7- 
Sest-monath ; and after the introduction 
of Christianity Halig-monath (holy- 
month, the nativity of the Virgin Mary 
being on the 8th, the exaltation of the 
Cross on the 14th, Holy-Rood Day on 
the 26th, and St. Michael’s Day on the 
29th). In the French Republican cal- 
endar it was called Fructidor (fruit- 
month, August 18th to September 21st). 

October. The eighth month of the 
Alban calendar. The old Dutch name 
was Wyn-maand ; the Old Saxon, Vin- 
monath (wine-month, or the time of vin- 
tage); it was also called Zveo-monath 
(tenth - month), and /Vinter - fylleth 
(winter full-moon). In the French Re- 
publican calendar it was called Jendé- 
miaire (time of vintage, September 22nd 
to October 21st). 

November. The ninth Alban month. 
The old Dutch name was Slaght-maand 
(slaughter-month, the time when the 
beasts were slain and salted down for 
winter use); the old Saxon, /Vind-monath 
(wind-month, when the fishermen drew 
their boats ashore, and gave over fishing 
till the next spring) ; it was also called 
Blot-monath—the same as Slaght-maand. 
In the French Republican calendar it 
was called Brumaire (fog-month, Octo- 
ber 22nd to November 21st). 

December, The tenth month of the old 
Alban calendar. The old Dutch name 
was Winter-maand (winter-month) ; the 


— 


old Saxon, Mid-winter-monath (mid- 
winter-month) ; whereas June was Mid- 
sumor-monath, Christian Saxons ealled 
December Se wa gedia (the anti-yule). 
In the French Republican calendar it 
was called Frimaire (hoar-frost month, 
from November 22nd to December 20th), 


Monthawi (4/), [the mabye One 
of Mahomet’s lances, confiscated from 
the Jews when they were exiled from 
Medi’na. 


Montjoie St. Denis. The war-cry 
of the French. J/ontjoie is a corruption 
of Mons Jovis, as the little mounds were 
called which served as direction-posts in 
ancient times; hence it was applied to 
whatever showed or indicated the way, 
as the banner of St. Denis, called the 
Oriflamme. The Burgundians had for 
their war-cry, ‘‘ Montjoie St. André; ”’ 
the dukes of Bourbon, ‘‘ Montjoie Notre 
Dame;’’ and the kings of England 
used to have ‘‘Montjoie St. George.” 
There seems no _ sufficient reason to 
suppose that Montjoie St. Denis is a 
corruption of ‘‘St. Denis mon joie ’’— 
i.e. “St. Denis is my hope.’’ 

Montjoie. The ery of the French 
heralds in the ancient tournaments ; and 
the title of the French king-of-arms. 


Montrognon (Baron of), Lord of 
Bourglastie, Tortebesse, and elsewhere. 
A huge mass of muscle, who existed 
only to eat and drink. He was a de- 
scendant of Esau on his father’s side, 
and of Gargantua on his mother’s. He 
once performed ἃ gigantic feat—he 
killed six hundred Saracens who hap- 
pened to get in his way as he was going 
to dinner. He was bandy-legged, could 
lift immense weights, had an elastic 
stomach, and four rows of teeth. In 
Croquemitaine he is made one of the 
paladins of Charlemagne, and was one 
of the four knights sent in search of 
Croquemitaine and Fear-fortress, 


Montserrat’. The Catalonians aver 
that this mountain was riven and shat- 
tered at the Crucifixion. Every rift is 
filled with evergreens. Similar legends 
exist with regard to many other moun- 
tains. (Latin, mons serratus, the moun- 
tain jagged like a saw.) 


Monumental City. Baltimore, U.S., 
is so called because it abounds in monu- 
ments: witness the obelisk, the 104 
churches, etc. 

Monumental Effigies. In the age 
of chivalry the woman in monumental 
brasses and effigies is placed on the 


Monumental Figures 857 


Moon 


man’s right hand; but when chivalry 
declined she was placed on his left hand. 


Monumental Figures. No. 1. 

(1) Those in stone, with plain sloping 
roofs, and without inscriptions, are the 
oldest. 

(2) In 1160 these plain prismatic roofs 
began to be ornamented. 

(3) In the same century the sloping 
roofs gave place to armorial bearings. 

(4) In the thirteenth century we see 
flat roofs, and figures carved on the lids. 

(5) The next stage was an arch, built 
over the monument to protect it. 

(6) The sixth stage was a chapel an- 
nexed to the church. 

(7) The last stage was the head bound 
and feet tied, with children at the base, 
or cherubims at the feet. 


Monumental Figures. No. 2. 

Figures with their hands on their 
breasts, and chalices, represent priests. 

Figures with crozier, mitre, and ponti- 
ficals, represent predates. 

Figures with armour represent knights. 

Figures with legs crossed represent 
either crusaders or married men. 

Female figures with a mantle and large 
ring represent 771/78. 

Monumental Figures. No. 3. 

Those in sca/e armour are the most 
ancient (time, Hemry IT.). 

Those in chaiz armour or ring-mail 
come next (time, Richard I. to Henry 
III.). 

Those with children or cherubims, be- 
tween the fourteenth and seventeenth 
centuries. 

Brasses are for the most part subse- 
quent to the thirteenth century. 


Monumental Figures. No. 4. 

Saints lie to the east of the altar, and 
are elevated above the ground; the 
higher the elevation, the greater the 
sanctity. Martyrs are much elevated. 

Holy men not canonised lie on a level 
with the pavement. 

Founders of chapels, ete., lie with their 
monument built into the wall. 


Monumental Inscriptions. 

Capital letters and Latin inscriptions 
are of the first twelve centuries. 

Lombardic capitals and French inscrip- 
tions, of the thirteenth century, 

German text, of the fourteenth cen- 
tury. 

English and Roman print, subsequent 
to the fourteenth century. 

Tablets against the wall came in with 
the Reformation, 


Moohel. A Jew whose office it is to 
circumcise the young Jewish boys. 


Moon means ‘‘measurer’’ of time 
(Anglo-Saxon, ména, mase. gen.). It is 
masculine in all the Teutonic languages ; 
in the Edda the son of Mundilfori is 
Mani (moon), and daughter Sol (swe); 
so it is still with the Lithuanians and 
Arabians, and so was it with the ancient 
Mexicans, Slavi, Hindus, ete.; so that 
it was a most unlucky dictum of Harris, 
in his Hermes, that all nations ascribe to 
the Sun a masculine, and to the Moon a 
feminine gender. (Gothic, mena, mase. ; 
Sanskrit, mds, masc., from md, to mea- 
sure.) The Sanskrit mdétram is an in- 
strument for measuring; hence Greek 
metron ; French, metre ; English, meter. 

The Germans have Fraw Sonne (Mrs, 
Sun) and Herr Mond (Mr. ee 

Moon, represented in five different 
phases: (1) new ; (2) full; (3) crescent 
or decrescent ; (4) half ; and (5) gibbous, 
or more than half, 

Moon, in pictures of the Assumption 
of the Virgin, is represented as a crescent 
under her feet ; in the Crucifixion it is 
eclipsed, and placed on one side of the 
cross, the sun being on the other ; in the 
Creation and Last Judgment it is also 
introduced by artists. 

Hecate. The moon before she has 
risen and after she has set. 

Astarte. The crescent moon, ‘‘the 
moon with crescent horns.” 

Diana. The moon in the open vault 
of heaven, who ‘‘ hunts the clouds.”’ 

Cynthia. Same as Diana. 

Selené or Luna. The moon personified, 
properly the full moon, who loved the 
sleeping Endymion. 

Endymion. Moonlight on a bank, 
field, or garden. 

“How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this 
bank!” Shakespeare: Merchait of Venice, v.1. 
Phebe. The moon as the sister of the 

sun. (See ASTARTE, ASHTAROTH, etc.). 

Moon. Astolpho found treasured in 
the moon everything wasted on this 
earth, such as misspent time and wealth, 
broken vows, unanswered prayers, fruit- 
less tears, abortive attempts, unfulfilled 
desires and intentions, etc. All bribes 
were hung on gold and silver hooks; 
prince’s favours were kept in bellows ; 
wasted talent was kept in vases, each 
marked with the proper name; ete. 
Orlando Furioso, bk, xvii. (See Rape of 
the Loch, α. Vv.) 

Moon. (See under MAHOMET.) 

The moon is called “ triform,’’ because 
it presents itself to us either round, or 


Moon-calf 858 


waxing with horns towards the east, or 
waning with horns towards the west. 

- Island of themoon. Madagascar is so 
named by the natives. 

Minions of the moon. 'Thieves who 
rob by night. (See 1 Henry IV., i. 2.) 

Mountains of the Moon means simply 
White Mountains. The Arabs call a 
white horse ‘‘moon-coloured.”’ (Jackson.) 

He cries for the moon, He craves to 
have what is wholly beyond his reach. 
The allusion is to foolish children who 
want the moon for a plaything. The 
French say ‘‘ He wants to take the moon 
between his teeth’? (‘* Z/ veut prendre la 
lune avee le dents’’), alluding to the old 
proverb about ‘the moon,’’ and a 
‘* oreen cheese.”’ 

To cast beyond the moon. 'Tomake ex- 
travagant conjectures; to cast your 
thoughts or guesses beyond all reason. 

To level at the moon. To be very am- 
bitious ; to aim in shooting at the moon. 

You have found an elephant in the moon 
—found a mare’s nest. Sir Paul Neal, a 
conceited virtuoso of the seventeenth 
century, gave out that he had discovered 
‘an elephant in the moon.” It turned 
out that a mouse had crept into his 
telescope, which had been mistaken for 
an elephantin the moon. Samuel Butler 
has a satirical poem on the subject called 
The Elephant in the Moon. 

You would have me believe, I suppose, 
that the moon is a green cheese—i.c. the 
most absurd thing possible. A green 
cheese is a cream cheese which is eaten 
green or fresh, and is not kept to mature 
like other cheeses. 

Manin the moon. (See Man.) 

Hares sacred to the moon, not because 
Diana was a great huntress, but because 
the Hindus affirm that the outline of a 
hare is distinctly visible on the moon, 

Oncein a blue moon. (See BLUE.) 


Moon-calf is an inanimate, shape- 
less mass (Pliny : Natural History, x. 64). 
This abortion was supposed to be pro- 
duced by the influence of the moon. 
The primary meaning of calf is not the 
young of a cow, but the issue arising 
‘*from throwing out,’’ as a push, a pro- 
tuberance ; hence the calves of the legs. 

“A false conception, called mola, i.e. moon-calf 
... lump of flesh without shape or life.’-—Hol- 
lund: Pliny, vii. 15. 

Moon-drop. In Latin, virus linare, 
a vaporous drop supposed to be shed by 
the moon on certain herbs and other ob- 
jects, when influenced by incantations, 


“Upon the corner of the moon, 
There hangs a vaporous drop profound ; 
I'll catch it ere it come to ground.” 
Shakespeare: Macbeth, iii. 5. 


Moots 


Moon-maker [Sagendé Nah\, a sur- 
name given to the Veiled Prophet (¢.".), 
who caused a moon to issue from a 
deep well, so brilliant that the real moon 
was eclipsed by it. 


Moon-rakers. The people of Wilt- 
shire are so called. In the ‘‘ good old 
times’? they were noted smugglers, and 
one day, seeing the coastguard on the 
watch, they sunk in the sea some smug- 
gled whisky. When they supposed the 
coast was clear they employed rakes to 
get their goods in hand again, when lo! 
the coastguard reappeared and de- 
manded of them what they were doing. 
Pointing to the reflection of the moon 
in the water, they replied, ‘‘ We are 
trying to rake out that cream-cheese 
yonder.” 


Moon’s Men. ‘Thieves and highway- 
men who ply their trade by night. 


“The fortune of us that are but Moon's-men 
doth ebb and flow like the sea.”—Shakespeare : 
1 Henry IV., i. 2. 


Moonlight Flitting (./). A clan- 
destine removal of one’s furniture dur- 
ing the night, to avoid paying one’s rent 
or having the furniture seized in payment 
thereof. 


Moonstone. A mineral so called on 
account of the play of light which it 
exhibits. Wilkie Collins has a novel 
called The Moonstone. 

“The moonstone contains bluish-white spots, 
which, when held to the light, presenta... . 
silvery play of colour not unlike that of the 
moon,.’—Ure: Chemical Dictionary. 

Moor-slayer or Mata-moros. A 
name given to St. James, the patron- 
saint of Spain, because in almost all 
encounters with the Moors he came on 
his white horse to the aid of the Chris- 
tians. So, at least, it is said. 


Moors. In the Middle Ages, the 
Europeans called all Mahometans J/oors, 
in the same manner as the Eastern 
nations called all inhabitants of Europe 
Franks. Camoens, in the Lusiad, terms 
the Indians “‘ Moors.’”? (Bk. viii.) 


Moore (Thomas), called ‘‘ Anacreon 
Moore,’’ because the character of his 
poetry resembles that of Anacreon, the 
Greek poet of love and wine. He also 
translated Anacreon’s Odes. (1779-1852. ) 


Moot Point (4). A doubtful or un- 
settled question. The Anglo-Saxon jot. 
ian is ““ἴο debate,’”? and a moot point 
is one sw judice, or under debate, 


Moots were debates which formerly 
took place in the halls and libraries of 
Inns of Court. The benchers and the 


Mop 


859 


Morgan le Fay 


barristers, as well as the students, took an 
active part in these moots. Sir Simonds 
D’Ewes, in his Diary (1625-1629), says: 

“T had lived mooted in law French before I 
was called to the bar."—Nineteenth Century, No- 
vember, 1892, p. 775. 

Mop. In many places statute fairs 
are held, where servants seek to be 
hired. Carters fasten to their hats a 
piece of whipcord ; shepherds, a lock of 
wool; grooms, a piece of sponge, ete. 
When hired they mount a cockade with 
streamers. Some few days after the 
statute fair, a second, called a Mop, is 
held for the benefit of those not already 
hired. This fair mops or wipes up the 
refuse of the statute fair, carrying away 
the dregs of the servants left. 

Mop. One of Queen Mab’s attendants. 

All mops and brooms. Tntoxicated. 


Mora-stone, near Upsa’la, where the 
Swedes used anciently to elect their 
kings. 


Moral. Zhe moral Gower. John 
Gower, the poet, is so called by Chaucer. 
(1320-1402.) 

Father of moval philosophy. 
Aquinas (1227-1274). 


Moralist. The great moralist of Fleet | 


Street. Dr. Johnson (1709-1784). 


Moran’s Collar which strangled the 
wearer if he deviated from the strict 
rules of equity. Moran was the wise 
councillor of Feredach the Just, an 
early king of Ireland, before the Chris- 
tian era. Of course, the collar is an 
allegory of obvious meaning. 


Morasteen [great stone]. The an- 
cient Danes selected their king from the 
sacred line of royalty. The man chosen 
was taken to the Landsthing, or local 
court, and placed on the morasteen, 
while the magnates ranged themselves 
around on stones of inferior size. ‘This 
was the Danish mode of installation. 


Morat. JMorat and Marathon twin 
names shall stand (Childe Harold, iii. 
64). Morat, in Switzerland, is famous 
for the battle fought in 1476, in which 
the Swiss defeated Charles le Téméraire 
of Burgundy. 


Moratorium. A legal permission to 
defer for a stated time the payment of a 
bond, debt, cheque, or other obligation. 
This is done to enable the creditor to 
pull himself round by borrowing money, 
selling effects, or otherwise raising funds 
to satisfy obligations. The device was 
adopted in 1891 in the Argentine Repub- 
lics during the money panic caused by 


Thomas 


| eupiunt, 


the Baring Brothers’ ‘‘ difficulty,’’ a de- 
fault of some twenty millions sterling. 


Mora'vians or Pohemian Brethren. 
A réligious community tracing its origin 
from John Huss, expelled by persecu- 
tion from Bohemia and Moravia in the 
eighteenth century. They are often 
called The United Brethren, 


Morbleu! (French). A corruption of 
Mort de Dieu. (Sce VENTRE Sr. Gris.) 


More. 170 le no more. 
longer ; to be dead, 


To exist no 


Cassius is no more.” 
Shakespeare: Julius Cesar. 
More Kicks than Ha’pence. Like 
the monkey which plays tricks for his 
master. The monkey gets the kicks and 
the master the ha’pence. 


More Last Words. When Richard 
Baxter lost his wife, he published a 
broadsheet, headed Last Words of Mrs. 
Baxter, which had an immense sale. 
The printer, for his own profit, brought 
out a spurious broadsheet, headed 
More Last Words ; but Baxter issued a 
small handbill with this concise sen- 
tence: ‘‘ Mrs. Baxter did not say any- 
thing else.”’ 


More of More Hall. A legendary 
hero who armed himself with an armour 
of spikes; and, concealing himself in 
the cave where the dragon of Wantley 
dwelt, slew the monster by kicking it on 
the mouth, where alone it was mortal. 


More the Merrier (7%). Theauthor 
of this phrase was Henry Parrot. 


More one has, the More he Desires 
(The). In French, Plus il en a, plus il en 
veut. In Latin, Quo plus habent, co plus 


“My more having would be a source 
To make me hunger more.” 
Shakespeare : Macbeth, iv. 3. 

More’no (3 syl.). Don Antonio Mo- 
reno, a gentleman of Barcelo’na, who 
entertained Don Quixote with mock- 
heroic hospitality. 

Morestone. J ould you remove More- 
stone 2? (See MorvTsToNe.) 


Morgan le Fay. (Sve below.) W. 
Morris, in his Larthly Paradise (August), 
makes Morgan the bride of Ogier the 
Dane, after his earthly career was 
ended. 


Morgan le Fay, Morgaine la Fée, 
or Morgana the Fairy. Daughter of 
Queen Igrayne, and half-sister of King 
Arthur, who revealed to him the in- 
trigues of Sir Lancelot and Guinever. 


Morganatic 


860 Mormon 


She gave him a cup containing a magic 
draught, and Arthur had no sooner 
drunk it than his eyes were opened to 
the perfidy of his wife and friend. 


Morganat'ic Marriage (4). A mar- 
riage in which the wife does not take 
the husband’s rank, because legally, or 
according to court bye-laws, the mar- 
riage is not recognised. This sort of 
marriage is effected when a man of high 
rank marries a woman of inferior posi- 
tion. The children in this case do not 
inherit the title or entails of the father. 
The word is based on the Gothie morg- 
jan, ““ἴο curtail’? or ‘‘limit;’’ and the 
marriage settlement was called morgen- 
gabe or morgengnade, whence the Low 
Latin matrimoniwn ad legem morganat- 
icam, in Which the dowry is to be con- 
sidered all the portion the wife will 
receive, as the estates cannot pass to 
her or to her children. 

A. imorganatic marriage is called “ left- 
handed,”’ because a man pledges his 
troth with his left hand instead of his 
right. The ‘“ hand-fasted’’? marriages 
of Scotland and Ireland were mor- 
ganatic, and the ‘‘hand-fasted’’ bride 
could be put away for a fresh union. 


Morgane (2 syl.). A fay to whose 
charge Zephyr committed young Pas- 
selyon and his cousin Bennucq. Pas- 
selyon fell in love with Morgane’s 
daughter, and the adventures of these 
young lovers are related in the romance 
of Perceforest, vol. iti. (See Morean.) 

Morgans. <A Stock Exchange term, 
signifying the French 6 per cents., which 
were floated by the Morgans. 


Morgan'te. A ferocious giant, con- 
verted by Orlando to Christianity, After 
performing the most wonderful feats, he 
died at last from the bite of a crab. (See 
below.) 

Morgante Maggiore. A serio-comic 
romance in verse, by Pulci, of Florence 
(1494). He was the inventor of this 
species of poetry, called by the French 
bernesque, from Berni, who greatly ex- 
celled init. ‘Translated by Byron. 

Morgia‘na. The clever, faithful, 
female slave of Ali Baba, who pries into 
the forty jars, and discovers that every 
jar, but one, containsaman. She takes 
oil from the only one containing it, 
and, having made it boiling hot, pours 
enough into each jar to kill the thief 
concealed there. At last she kills the 
captain of the gang, and marries her 
master’s son. (Arabian Nights: Ali 
Baba and the Forty Thieves.) 


Morglay. A sword (glave de la mort, 
the sword of Sir Bevis of Southamp- 


ton), a generic name for a sword. (Sve 
Sworn.) 

“Had I been accompanied with my Toledo or 
Morglay.’—Every Woman in her Humour. 


“Carrying their morglays in their bands.’— 
Beaumont and Fletcher: Honest Man, 

Morgue, a dead-house, is generally 
associated with mors (death); but this is 
a blunder, as the word means visage, 
and was first applied to prison vestibules, 
where new criminals were placed to be 
scrutinised, that the prison officials 
might become familiar with their faces 
and general appearance. 


“On me conduit done au petit chastelet, on du 
cuichet estant passé dans Ia morgue, un homme 


eros, court, et carré, vint ἃ moy.’—Assoucy : La 
Prison de M. Dassouch (A674), p. 35. 
“Morgue. Endroit of l'on tient quelque temps 


ceux que l'on ecroue, afin qhe les gcuichetiers 
puissent les reconnaitre ensuit."—Fleming and 
Tibbins, vol. i. p. 688. 

Morgue la Faye, who watched over 
the birth of Ogier the Dane, and after he 
had finished his earthly career, restored 
him to perpetual youth, and took him 
to live with her in everlasting love in 
the isle and castle of Av’alon. 


Moribund. Declining; in a dying 
state ; on its last legs. Turkey is called 
a moribund state. Institutions on the 
decline are called moribund. Applied 
to institutions, commercial companies, 
states, ete. (Latin, moribundus, ready 
to die.) 


Moriso/nianism. The religious 
system of James Morison, the chief 
peculiarities being the doctrines of uni- 
versal atonement, and the ability of 
man unaided to receive or reject the 
Gospel. James Morison, in 1841, sepa- 
rated from the ‘‘ United Secession,’’? now 
merged into the ‘‘ United Presbyterian.”’ 
The Morisonians call themselves the 
“ἐ Evangelical Union.”’ 


Morley (J/7s.). The name under 
which Queen Anne corresponded with 
Mrs. Freeman (the Duchess of Marl- 
borough). 

Morma, in Pepys’s Diary, is Eliza- 
beth, daughter of John Dickens, who 
died October 22nd, 1662. 


Mormon. The last of a pretended 
line of Hebrew prophets, and the pre- 
tended author of The Book of Mormon, 
or Golden Bible, written on golden 
plates. This work was in reality written 
by the Rev. Solomon Spalding, but was 
claimed by Joseph Smith as a direct 
revelation to him by the angel Mornton. 
Spalding died in 1816; Smith, 1844. 


Mormon Creed 


861 


Morrice 


Mormon Creed. (1) God is a person 
with the form and flesh of man. (2) Man 
is a part of the substance of God, and 
will himself become a god. (3) Man 
was not created by God, but existed from 
all eternity, and will never cease to exist. 
(4) There is no such thing as original or 
birth sin. (5) The earth is only one of 
many inhabited spheres. (6) God is 
president of men made gods, angels, 
good men, and spirits waiting to receive 
a tabernacle of flesh. (7) Man’s house- 
hold of wives is his kingdom not for 
earth only, but also in his future state. 
(8) Mormonism is the kingdom of God 
onearth. (W. Hepworth Dixon: New 
America, 1. 24.) 

Mormonism. The religious and 
social system of the Latter-day Saints ; 


so called from their gospel, termed | 


The Book of Mormon. Joe Smith, the 
founder of the system, was born in 
Sharon, Windsor county, Vermont; his 
partner was Rigdon, The manuscript, 
which he declared to be written on gold 
plates, was a novel written by Spalding. 


He was cited thirty-nine times into | 


courts of law, and was at last assassi- 
nated by a gang of ruftians, who broke 
into his prison at Carthage, and shot 
him like a dog. His wife’s name was 
Emma ; he lived at Nauvoo, in Illinois ; 
his successor was Brigham Young, a car- 
peuter by trade, who led the ‘‘ Saints”’ 
(as the Mormons are called), driven from 
home by force, to the valley of the Salt 
Lake, 1,500 miles distant, generally 
called Utah, but by the Mormons them- 
selves Deseret (Bee-country), the New 
Jerusalem, Abraham is their model 
man, and Sarai their model woman, and 
English their language. Young’s house 
was called the Bee-hive. Every man, 
woman, and child capable of work has 
work to do in the community. 


Morning. The first glass of whisky 
drunk by Scotch fishermen in salutation 
to the dawn. Thus one fisherman will 
say to another, ‘‘Hae ye had your 
morning, Tam?” or ‘‘IT haena had my 
morning, yet, Jock.’’ 

“Having declined Mrs. Flockhart’s compliment 
of a ‘morning, ... he made his adieus.”—Sir W. 
Scott: Waverley, clap, xliv. 

Morning Star of the Reformation. 
John Wycliffe (1324-1384). 

Morocco. The name of Banks’s bay 
horse. (See BAnxKs and Horse.) 

Morocco, Strong ale made from burnt 
malt, used in the annual feast at Seven- 
halls, Westmoreland (the seat of the 
Hon. Mary Howard), on the opening of 


Milnthorpe Fair. This liquor is put into 
a large glass of unique form, and the 
person whose turn it is to drink is called 
the ‘‘colt.’’” Heis required to stand on 
one leg, and say ‘‘ Luck to Sevens as 
long as Kent flows,’’ then drain the glass 
to the bottom, or forfeit one shilling. 
The act is termed ‘‘ drinking the con- 
stable.’? The feast consists of radishes, 
oaten cake, and butter. 


Morocco Men (1762). Public-house 
and perambulating touts for lottery 
insurances. Their rendezvous was a 
tavern in Oxford Market, on the 
Portland estate, at the close of the 
eighteenth century. In 1796 the great 
State lottery employed 7,500 Morocco 
men to dispose of their tickets, 


Moros. The fool in the play entitled 
The Longer Thou Livest the More Fool 
Thou Art, by William Wager. 

Morpheus (2 syl., ‘ie Sleeper). Son 
of Sleep, and god of dreams: so called 


| because he gives these ‘airy nothings 


their form and fashion. 
Morrel. One of the shepherds in the 
Shepherd’s Calendar, by Spenser. 


Morrice ((i/ or Child). The natural 
son of an earl and the wife of Lord Bar- 


| nard or John Stewart, ‘‘ brought forth 


in her father’s house wi’ mickle sin and 
shame,’’ and brought up ‘‘in the gude 
grene wode,’’ One day he sent Willie to 
the baron’s hall, requesting his mother 
to come without delay to Greenwood, 
and by way of token sent with him a 
‘*oay mantel’’ made by herself. Willie 
went into the dinner-hall, and blurted 
out his message before all who were 
present, adding, ‘‘ and there is the silken 
sarke your ain hand sewd the sleive.”’ 
Lord Barnard, thinking the Child to 
be a paramour of his wife, forbade her 
to leave the hall, and, riding himself to 
Greenwood, slew Morrice with a broad- 
sword, and setting his head on a spear, 
gave it to “‘the meanest man in a’ his 
train’’ to carry it to the lady. When 
the baron returned Lady Barnard said 
to him, ‘‘ Wi’ that same spear, O pierce 
my heart, and put me out o’ pain;’’ 
but the baron replied, ‘‘ Enouch of blood 
by me’s bin spilt, sair, sair I rew the 
deid,’’ adding — 
“ΤῊ ἂν lament for Gil Morice, 
As gin he were mine ain ; 
I'll neir forget the dreiry day 
On which the youth was slain.” : 
Reliques of Ancient English Poetry, ser. iii. 1. 

Dr. Percy says this pathetic tale sug- 
gested to Home the plot of Douglas (a 
tragedy). 


Morris Dance 


Morris Dance, brought to England 
in the reign of Edward III., when John 
of Gaunt returned from Spain, In the 
dance, bells were jingled, and staves or 
swords clashed, It was a military dance 
of the Moors or Moriscos, in which five 
men and a boy engaged; the boy wore 
a morione or head-piece, and was called 
Mad Morion. (See Marp Marry.) 


Morse Alphabet (7/iv). An alpha- 
bet used in telegraphic messages, in- 
vented by Professor Samuel F, B. Morse, 
ot Massachusetts. 
flection of the electric needle corresponds 
to a dash, and the left-hand to a dot; 
and by means of dashes and dots every 
word may be spelt at length. Military 
signalling is performed in England by 
short and long flashes of a flag or some 
other instrument; the short flash corre- 
sponds with the dot, and the long with 
the dash. The following ten varieties 
will show how these two symbols are 
capable of endless combinations, * | * * | 
Sth sac. Deel hans 5. ἐν «a a 


“oe | (ete. 


Mort-safe. A wrought-iron frame 
to prevent dead bodies from being ex- 
humed by resurrectionists. (See Votes 
and Queries, March 14th, 1891, p. 210.) 


Mortal. J sav a mortal lot of people 
—i.e. a vast number. Mortal is the 
French @ mort, as in the sentence, ‘ // y 
avait du monde ἃ mort.’  Legonidec 
says, ** Ce mot [mort] ne s’enploie jamais 
au propre, mais seulement au figure, avec 
la signification de multitude, grand nom- 
bre, foule.”’ . 

Mortar-board. A college cap. A 
corruption of the French mortier, the 
cap worn by the ancient kings of France, 
and still used officially by the chief 
justice or president of the court of 
justice, As a college cap has a square 
board on the top, the mortier-board was 
soon transformed into mortar-board. 


Mortars differ from guns, in haying 
their trunnions placed behind the vent. 
They are short pieces, intended to pro- 
ject shells at high angles (45°), and the 
shells thus projected fall almost verti- 
cally on the object struck, forcing in 
the strongest buildings, and (bursting at 
the same time) firing everything around, 
Their splinters are very destructive. 


Morte q@’Arthur, compiled by Sir 
Thomas Malory, from French originals ; 
edited by Southey, the poet-laureate, 
The compilation contains— 

Lhe Prophecies of Merlin. 


The right-hand de- - 


Moscow 


The Quest of the St. Graal. 
᾿ The Romance of Sir Lancelot of the 
ake. 
The History of Sir Tristram ; ete. ete. 
Tennyson has a Morte d’Arthur 
among his poems. 


Mortgage. 


Morther. 
been this long while 2 (Norfolk), 
Mor, come hither! (Norfolk). Mor 
or Morther means a lass, a wench. It 
is the Dutch mocr (a woman). In Nor- 
folk they call a lad a dor, from the 
Dutch boer (a farmer), English door. 
‘Well, bor!’’ and ‘‘ Well, mor!”’ are 
to be heard daily in every part of the 
county. 

“When once a giggling morther you, 
And La red-faced chubby boy, 
Sly tricks you played me not a few, 
For mischief was your greatest joy.” 
Bloomfield: Richard and Kate. 

Mor’timer. So called from an an- 
cestor in crusading times, noted for his 
exploits on the shores of the Dead Sea. 
(De Mortuo Mari.) 


Mortlake Tapestry. The best Eng- 
lish tapestry made at Mortlake (Middle- 
sex), in the reign of James I. 

“Why, lady, do you think me 
Wrought ina loom, some Dutch-piece weaved at 
Mortlake ?” City Match. 

Mortstone. He say venove Mort- 
stone. A Devonshire proverb, said in- 
credulously of husbands who pretend to 


(See WELSH MORTGAGE. ) 


Well, Mor, where have you 
Psy, 


| be masters of their wives. It also means, 


“ΤΕ you have done what you say, you 
can accomplish anything.” 


Morven. Fingal’s realm; probably 
Argyllshire and its neighbourhood. 


Mosa‘ic Work is not connected with 
the proper name Moses, but with the 
Muses (Latin, opus mouse'um, musiwn, or 
musivum,; Greek, mouseion; French, 
mosaique ; Italian, mosaico). Pliny says 
it was so called because these tesselated 
floors were first used in the grottoes 
consecrated to the Muses (xxxv. 21, 
s. 42). The most famous workman in 
mosaic work was Sosus of Per’gamos, 
who wrought the rich pavement in the 
common-hall, called Asaroton cecon, 
(Pliny : Natural History, xxxvi. 4, 64.) 


Moscow. So called from the river 
Moscowa, on which it is built. 

The monarch of Moscow. A large bell 
weighing 193 tons, 21 feet high, and 21 
feet in diameter. 

[So-and-So] was my Moscow. The 
turning-point of my good fortune, lead- 


| ing to future shoals and misery. The 


Mosen 


reference is to Napoleon’s disastrous 
expedition, when his star hastened to its 
setting. 
“Juan, was my Moscow [the ruin of my repu- 
tation).” Byron: Don Juan, Xi. 56. 
Mosen (Spanish). A corruption of 
Mio Seiior, corresponding to the Casti- 
lian Don. 


Moses’ Horns. Exodus xxxiv. 30, 
“ All the children of Israel saw Moses, 
and the skin of his face shone,’’ trans- 
lated in the Vulgate, ‘‘Cornata esset facies 
sua.”? Rays of light were called horns. 


Hence in Habakkuk (iii. 4) we read of | 


God, ‘‘ His brightness was as the light, 


and He had horns [rays of light] coming | 


out of His hand.’’ Michel Angelo de- 
picted Moses with horns, following the 
Vulgate. 

The French translation of Habacuce, ili. 4 is:— 
“ Sa splendeur etait comme la lumiére meme, et des 
rayons sortuicnt de sa main.” 

Moses’ Rod. So the divining-rod 
was usually fealled. The divining-rod 
was employed to discover water or 
mineral treasure. In Blachiwood’s Maga- 
zine (May, 1850) we are told that nobody 
sinks a well in North Somersetshire 
without consulting the jowser (as the 
rod-diviner is called). The Abbé Richard 
is stated in the J/onde to be an extremely 
expert diviner of water, and amongst 
others discovered the ‘‘ Christmas Foun- 
tain’? on M. de Metternich’s estate, in 
1863. In the Quarterly Review (No, 44) 
we have an account of Lady Noel’s 
divining skill. (See World of Wonders, 
pt. ix. p. 283.) 


Moses Slow of Speech. The ac- 
count given in the Zulmud (vi.) is as 
follows:—Pharach was one day sit- 
ting on his throne with Moses on his lap, 
when the child took off the king’s crown 
and put it on his ownhead. The ‘‘ wise 
men”’ tried to persuade the king that 
this was treason, for which the child 
ought to be put to death; but Jethro, 
priest of Midian, replied, “ΤΕ is the act 
of a child who knows no better. Let two 


him, one containing gold and the other 
red-hot coals, and you will readily see 
he will prefer the latter to the former.” 
The experiment being tried, the little 
boy snatched up the live coal, put it into 
his mouth, and burnt his tongue so 
severely that he was ever after ‘ heavy 
or slow of speech.”’ 


Moses Primrose. Son of the Rev. 
Dr. Primrose, very green, and with a 
good opinion of himself. He is chiefly 
known for his wonderful bargain with a 


| Notre 


863 Mother Carey’s Chickens 


Jew at the neighbouring fair, when he 
gave a good horse in exchange for a 
gross of worthless green spectacles, with 
copper rims and shagreen cases, ((rold- 
smith: Vicar of Wakefield.) 

Mos'lem or Moslemin. Plural of 
Mussulman, sometimes written Mussul- 
mans. The word is Turkish, and means 
true believer. 

Mosse. Napping, as Mosse took his 
mare. Wilbraham says Mosse took his 
mare napping, because he could not 
catch her when awake. 

“Till day come, catch lim as Mosse his grey 
mare, napping.’ —Christmas Prince. 

Mosstrooper. A robber, a bandit. 
The marauders who infested the borders 
of England and Scotland were so called 


| because they encamped on the "0558. 


Mote and Beam (Matt. vii. 3-5), 7. 
alio pediculun video, in te riciniun non 
vides (Petronius). Here pediculn meaus 


| alouse, and ricinwn a tyke. 


Moth. Page to Don Adriano de 
Arma’do, all jest and playfulness, cun- 
ning and versatile. (Shakespeare : Love's 
Labou’s Lost.) 

Mother. Mother and Head of all 
Churches. So is St. John Lateran of 
Rome called. It occupies the site of the 
splendid palace of Plantius Latera’nus, 
which escheated to the Crown from 
treason, and was given to the Church by 
the Emperor Constantine. From the 
balcony of this church the Pope blesses 


| the people of the whole world. 


Mother Ann. Ann Lee, the ‘“ spiri- 
tual mother’? of the Shakers. (1735- 
1784.) 

Mother Bunch. (1) Mother Bunch 
whose fairy tales are notorious. These 
tales are in Pasquil’s Jests, with the 
Merriments of Mother Bunch. (1653.) 

(2) The other Mother Bunch is called 
Mother Buncl’s Closet newly Broke 
Open, containing rare secrets of art 


0 | and nature, tried and experienced by 
plates’? (he continued) ‘‘be set before | 


learned philosophers, and recommended 
to all ingenious young men and maids, 
teaching them how to get good wives 
and husbands. (1760.) 


Mother Carey’s Chickens. Stormy 
petrels. Mother Carey is Mater Cara. 
The French call these birds oiseaux de 
Dame or aves Sancte Marie. 
Chickens are the young of any fowl, or 
any small bird. 


“ They are called the ‘sailor's’ friends, come to 


| Warn them of an approaching storm; and it is 


most unlucky to kill them. The legend is that 


| each bird contains the soul of a dead seaman.” 


Mother Country 


864 


Motion 


(See Captain Marryat: Poor Jack, 
where the superstition is fully related.) 

Mother Carey’s Goose. The great Black 
Petrel or Fulmar of the Pacific Ocean. 

Mother Carey is plucking her goose. Vt 
is snowing. (See HULDA.) 


Mother Country. One’s native 
country, but the term applies specially to 
England, in relation to America and the 
Colonies. The inhabitants of North 
America, Australia, etc., are for the 
most part descendants of English parents, 
and therefore England may be termed 
the mother country. The Germans call 
their native country Fatherland, 


Mother Douglas. <A noted pro- 
curess, introduced in Zhe Minor by 
Foote. She also figures in Hogarth’s 
March to Finchley. Mother Douglas re- 
sided at the north-east corner of Covent 
Garden; her house was superbly fur- 
nished and decorated. She grew very 
fat, and with pious up-turned eyes used 
to pray for the safe return of her ‘‘ babes”’ 
from battle. She died 1761. 


Mother Earth. When Junius Brutus 
(after the death of Lucretia) formed one 
of the deputation to Delphi to ask the 
Oracle which of the three would succeed 
Tarquin, the response was, ‘‘ He who 
should first kiss his mother.’’ Junius in- 
stantly threw himself on the ground, 
exclaiming, ‘‘Thus, then, I kiss thee, 
Mother Earth,’? and he was elected 
Consul, 


Mother Goose. A name associated 
with nursery rhymes. She was born in 
Boston, and her eldest daughter Eliza- 
beth married Thomas Fleet, the printer. 
Mrs. Goose used to sing-the rhymes to 
her grandson, and Thomas Fleet printed 
the first edition in 1719. 


Mother Hubbard. The old lady 
whose whole time seems to have been 
devoted to her dog, who always kept her 
Ἢ the trot, and always made game of 
ner. 
wilfulness on the part of her dog, and 
her politeness never forsook her, for 
when she saw Master Doggie dressed in 
his fine clothes— 


τ The dame made a curtsey, the dog made a bow ; 
The dame said, ‘Your seryant,’ the dog said, 


‘ Bow-wow.,’” 
_ Mother Huddle’s Oven. Where 
folk are dried up so that they live for 
ever. (Howard Pyle: Robin Hood, 211.) 
Mother Shipton lived in the reign 
of Henry VIII,, and was famous for her 
prophecies, in which’ she foretold the 
death of Wolsey, Lord Percy, etc., 


Her temper was proof against this | 


and many wonderful events of future 


times. All her ‘‘ prophecies”’ are still 
extant. 
Mother-sick. Hysterical. 
Mother-wit. Native wit, a ready 


reply ; the wit which ‘‘ our mother gave 
us.” In ancient authors the term is used 
to express a ready reply, courteous but 
not profound. Thus, when Louis XIV. 
expressed some anxiety lest Polignac 
should be inconvenienced by a shower of 
falling rain, the mother-wit of the car- 
dinal replied, ‘‘It is nothing, I assure 
your Majesty ; the rain of Marly never 
makes us wet.”’ 


Mother of Believers. Ay-e'-shah, 
the second and favourite wife of Maho- 
met; so called because Mahomet being 
the ‘‘ Father of Believers,’’ his wife of 
wives was Mother of Believers. 

Mother of Books. Alexandria was 
so called from its library, which was the 
largest ever collected before the inven- 
tion of printing. 

Mother of Cities [Ainu-al-DBulud). 
Balkh is so called. 


Mother of Pearl. The inner irides- 
cent layers of the shells of many bivalve 
molluses, especially that of the pearl 
oyster. 

Mother of the Gracchi. A hard, 
strong-minded, rigid woman, without one 
soft point or effeminate weakness. Al- 
ways in the right, and maintaining her 
right with the fortitude of a martyr. 

Mother’s Apron Strings. 
TIED .. 

Mothering Sunday is Sunday in 
Mid-Lent, a great holiday, when the 
Pope blesses the golden rose, and chil- 
dren go home to their mothers to feast 
on ‘‘mothering cakes.”’ It is said that 
the day received its appellation from the 
ancient custom of visiting their ‘‘ mother 
church,’”’? and making offerings on the 
altar on that day. Used by school- 
children it means a holiday, when they 
went home to spend the day with their 
mother or parents, 


(See 


Motion. Zhe laws of motion, accord- 
ing to Galileo and Newton. 

(1) If no force acts on a body in 
motion, it will continue to move uni- 
formly in a straight line, 

(2) If force acts on a body, it will 
produce a change of motion proportion- 
ate to the force, and in the same direction 
(as that in which the force acts). 


Motley 


865 Mountains 


(3) When one body exerts force on 
another, that other body reacts on it with 
equal force, 


Motley. Men of motley. Licensed 
fools ; so called because of their dress. 
““ Motley is the only wear.” 
Shakespeare : As You Like It, ii. 7. 
Motu Pro’prio. A law brought in 
by Consal’vi, to abolish monopolies in 
the Papal States (1757). 


Mouch (70). To live as a vagrant. 


Mouchard (French). A spy, ‘‘qui 
fuit comme les mouches, qui voient si bien 
sans en avoir Vair.” At the close of the 
seventeenth century, those petits-maitres 
who frequented the Tuileries to see and 
be seen were called mouchards (fly-men). 
(Dictionnaire Ltymologique de Ménagqe.) 


Moulds. Jn the In the 
grave. 

“ After Sir John and her [the minister's wife] 
were ... baith in the moulds.”’—Sir W. Scott: 
Redgauntlet (Letter Xi.). 

Mound. The largest artificial mound 
in Europe is Silbury Hill, near Avebury 
(Wiltshire). It covers 5 acres, 34 perches, 
and measures at the base 2,027 feet ; its 
diameter at top is 120 feet ; its slope is 
316 feet ; perpendicular height, 107 feet ; 
and it is altogether one of the most 
stupendous monuments of human labour 
in the world. 

Alyattes, in Asia Minor, described by 
Herodotus, is somewhat larger than 
Silbury Hill. 


Mount Zion. The Celestial City or 
Heaven. (Bunyan: Pilgrim’s Progress.) 

“Tam come from the City of Destruction, and 
am going to Mount Zion.” (Parti.) 

Mountain (176) or Montagnards. 
The extreme democratical party in the 
first French Revolution; so called be- 
cause they seated themselves on the 
highest benches of the hall in which the 
National Convention met. Their leaders 
were Danton and Robespierre, but under 
them were Marat, Couthon, Thuriot, St. 
André, Legendre, Camille-Desmoulins, 
Carnot, St. Just, and Collot d’Herbois, 
the men who introduced the ‘‘ Reign of 
Terror.’”’? Extreme Radicals are still 
called in France the ‘‘ Mountain Party,”’ 
or Montagnards. 

Old Man of the Mountain. Tmaum 
Hassan ben Sabbah el Homairi. The 
Sheik Al Jebal was so called, because 
his residence was in the mountain fast- 
nesses of Syria. He was the prince of a 
Mahometan sect called Assassins (9.”.), 
and founder of a dynasty in Syria, put 
an end to by the Moguls in the twelfth 


59 


moulds. 


century. In Rymer’s Fwdera (vol. i.) 
two letters of this sheik are inserted. It 
is not the province of this Book of Lables 
to dispute their genuineness. 

Tf the mountain will not come to Ma- 
homet, Mahomet must go to the mountain. 
Tf what I seek will not come to me 
without my stir, I must exert myself to 
obtain it; if we cannot do as we wish, 
we must do as we can. When Mahomet 
first announced his system, the Arabs 
demanded supernatural proofs of his 
commission. ‘‘ Moses and Jesus,’ said 
they, ‘‘ wrought miracles in testimony 
of their divine authority; and if thou 
art indeed the prophet of God, do so 
likewise.”’ To this Mahomet replied, 
“Tt would be tempting God to do so, 
and bring down His anger, as in the case 
of Pharaoh.’? Not satisfied with this 
answer, he commanded Mount Safa to 
come to him, and when it stirred not at 
his bidding, exclaimed, ‘‘ God is merciful. 
Had it obeyed my words, it would have 
fallen on us to our destruction. I will 
therefore go to the mountain, and thank 
God that He has had mercy on a stiff- 
necked generation.” 

The mountain in labour. A mighty 
effort made for a small effect. The 
allusion is to the celebrated line of 
Horace, ‘‘ Parturiunt montes, nasce'tur 
ridiculus mus,’’? which Creech translates, 
“The travailing mountain yields a silly 
mouse ;”? and Boileau, ‘‘ La montagne 
en travail enfante une souris.”’ 


Mountain Ash (7/ic), or ‘“ Rowan- 
tree,’’? botanically called Pyrus aucu- 
paria, Which does not belong to the 
same family of plants as the fraxinus, 
or Common Ash. The Mountain Ash is 
icosandria, but the Common Ash 15 dian- 
dria. The Mountain Ash is pentagynia, 
but the Common Ash is monogynia. The 
Mountain Ash is of the Natural Order 
rosacé@, but the common Ash is of the 
Natural Order sepiavie; yet the two 
trees resemble each other in many re- 
spects. The Rowan or Rown-tree is 
called in Westmoreland the ‘‘ Wiggen- 
tree.’”? It was greatly venerated by the 
Druids, and was called the “ Witchen”’ 
by the early Britons, because it was 
supposed to ward off witches. 

“Their spells were vain. The hagsreturned } 

To their queen in sorrowful mood, 
Crying that witches have no power 
Where thrives the Rowan-tree wood.” 
Laidley Worm of Spindleston Heughs (a ballad). 


Mountain-dew. Whisky. 
Mountains of Mole-hills. 170 make 
mountains of mole-hills, ‘To make a 


Mountebank 


866 


Moussa 


great fuss about trifles, ‘ Hx elodca 


arcem factre”? (Cicero). 


Mountebank. The bank or bench 
was the counter on which shopkeepers 
of yore displayed their goods, Street- 
vendors used to mount on their Lark to 
patter to the public, The French word 
is “saltim banque ;’’? and the Italian 
word ‘ Cantambanco’’ (i.e. canta in 
banco, one who patters from his bank). 

~ In Italian, montambanco (a quack- 
doctor) is also in use. 


“ 


Se disant estre quelque trabe, ou quelque 
Juif convert, il se feignoit medecin du roi de 
Perse, et comme tel il montoit la banque. C’estoit 
la que, pour déhiter ses drogues, il Gtourdissoit 
de son babil toute lassemblee.”—Histoive Generale 
des Larrons, book i. chap. Xxix. 

There were temporary mountebanks as well as 
more regular merchants, In Attica, the names 
of Dolonand Susarion of Icaria are distinguished. 
In France, Tabaria, Tabarin, Turlupin, Gauthier- 
Garguille, Gros-Guillaume, Guillot-Gorju, Bo- 
héche, Galimaufré, and Gringalet (a marvellous 
number of G's). In England, Andrew Borde, 
and some few others of inferior note. 


Mourning. 


Black. To express the privation of 
light and joy, the midnight gloom of 
sorrow for the loss sustained. ‘The 
colour of mourning in Europe. It was 
also the colour of mourning in ancient 
Greece and in the Roman Empire. 

Black and white striped. 'To express 
sorrow and hope. The mourning of the 
South-Sea Islanders. 

Greyish brown. The colour of the 
earth, to which the dead return. The 
colour of mourning in Ethiopia. 

Pale brown. The colour of withered 
leaves. ‘The mourning of Persia. 

Sky-blue. 'To express the assured 
hope that the deceased has gone to 
heaven. The colour of mourning in 
Syria, Cappadocia, and Armenia, 

Deep blue, in Bokha'ra, is the colour 
of mourning (Hanway). The Romans 
in the Republic wore dark blue for 
mourning. : 

Purple and violet, To express royalty, 
‘kings and priests to God.’ The 
colour of mourning for cardinals and 
the kings of France. The colour of 
mourning in Turkey is violet. 

White, Emblem of ‘ white-handed 
hope.’ The colour of mourning in 
China, Henry VIII. wore white for 
Anne Boleyn. The ladies of ancient 
Rome and Sparta wore white for mourn- 
ing. It was the colour of mourning in 
Spain till 1498. In England it is still 
customary in some of the provinces to 
wear white silk hat-bands and white 
gloves tor the unmarried. 

Yellow. The sear and yellow leaf. 
The colour of mourning in Egypt and in 


—————___£.—— =. 


Burmah, where also it is the colour of 
the monastic order. In Brittany, widows’ 
caps among the paysannes are yellow. 
Anne Boleyn wore yellow mourning for 
Catherine of Aragon, Some say yellow 
is in token of exaltation. 


Mournival. Four cards all alike, as 
four aces, four kings, ete., in a game of 
cards called Gleek. Gleek is three cards 
alike. 

“A mournival of aces, gleek of knaves, 

Just nine a-piece.” Albumazuay, iil, 5. 
Poole in his Lvglish Parnassus called 
the tour elements Nature’s first mourni- 
val. 

Mouse. The soul or spirit was often 
supposed in olden times to assume a 
zoomorphic form, and to make its way 
at death through the mouth of man ina 
visible form, sometimes as a pigeon, 
sometimes as a mouse or rat. A red 
mouse indicated a pure soul; a black 
mouse, a soul blackened by pollution ; 
a pigeon or dove, a saintly soul. 

Exorcists used to drive out evil spirits 
from the human body, and Harsnet 
gives several instances of such expul- 
sions in his Popular Lmpositions (1604). 

-No doubt pigeons were at one time trained 


to represent the departing soul, and also to 1e- 
present the Holy Ghost, 


Mouse, Mousie, terms of endeur- 
ment. Other terms of endearment from 
animals are, bird or birdie (as “Μ 
bonnie bird’’) ; pass, pussy ; lamb, lamb- 
kin, ““Youlittle monkey” is anendearing 
reproof to a child. Dog and pig are 
used in a bad sense, as ‘* You dirty 
dog;”’ ‘‘ You filthy pig.”? Brave as a 
lion, surly as a bear, crafty as a fox, 
proud as a peacock, fleet as a hare, and 
several phrases of a like character are in 
common use. 

“"God bless you, mouse, the bridegroom said, 

And smakt Ler on the lips.” 
Warner: Alb. Eng., p. 17. 

Mouse Tower (7%), on the Rhine, 
said to be so called because Bishop Hatto 
(q.v.) was there devoured by mice. The 
tower, however, was built by Bishop 
Siegfried, two hundred years after the 
death of Bishop Hatto, as a toll-house 
for collecting the duties upon all goods 
which passed by. The word maus or 
mauth means ‘toll,’? and the toll col- 
lected on corn being very unpopular, 
gave rise to the tradition referred to. 
The catastrophe was fixed on Bishop 
Hatto, a noted statesman and councillor 
of Otho the Great, proverbial for his 
cunning perfidy. (See Haro.) 

Moussa, Moses. 


Moussali 


867 


Much Ado 


Moussali. A Persian musician. 
Haroun al Raschid was going to divorce 
his late favourite Mari‘dah or Marinda, 
but the poet Moussali sang some verses 
to him which so touched his heart, that 
he went in search of the lady and made 
peace with her. (D’ Herbelot.) 


Mouth. Down in 
under Down.) 

His mouth was made, he was trained 
or reduced to obedience, like a horse 
trained to the bit. 

“At first, of course, the flreworker showed 
ficht.—...butin the end ‘his mouth was made,’ 
his pices formed, and he hecame a yery seryice- 
able and willing animal.” —Le Fanuw: Howse in 
the Churchyard, ch, xcix. 


Mouth Waters. That makes my 
mouth water. ‘* Cela fait venir Veau a la 
bouche.’ The fragrance of appetising 
food excites the salivary glands. The 
phrase means—that makes me long for 
or desire it. 

Moutons. Jlevenons ἃ nos moutons. 
TNeturn we to our subject. The phrase 
is taken from an old French play, called 
I? Avocat, by Patelin, in which a woollen- 
draper charges a shepherd with stealing 
sheep. In telling his grievance he kept 
for ever running away from his subject ; 
ant to throw discredit on the defendant’s 
attorney, accused him of stealing a piece 
of cloth. The judge had to pull him up 
every moment with, ‘* Mais, mon ani, 
revenons ad nos moutons’? (What about 
the sheep, tell me about the sheep, now 
return to the story of the sheep). 


Movable. Tie first movable. Sir 
Thomas Browne (feligio Medici, p. 56, 
27) uses the phrase, ‘* Beyond the first 
movable,’’? meaning outside the material 
creation, According to Ptolemy the 
“pronun mobile’? (the first movable and 
first mover of all things) was the boun- 
dary of creation, above which came the 
empyrean heaven, or seat of God. 


the mouth. (See 


Moving the Adjournment of the 
House. This is the only method which 
the rules of the house leave to a member 
for bringing up suddenly, and without 
notice, any business which is not on the 
order paper, 


Moving the Previous Question. 
A parliamentary dodge for burking an 
obnoxious bill. The method is as fol- 
lows :—A ‘ question,” or bill, is before 
the house, an objector does not wish to 
commit himself by moving its rejection, 
so he moves ‘‘ the previous question,” 
and the Speaker moves, from the chair, 
“that the question be not put’’—that 


is, that the house be not asked to come 
to any decision on the main question, 
but be invited to pass to the ‘‘ orders of 
the day.”’ In other words, that the sub- 
ject be shelved or burked. 

N.B. A motion for ‘the previous 
question ’’ cannot be made on an amend- 
ment, nor in a select committee, nor yet 
in a committee of the whole house. The 
phrase is simply a method of avoiding a 
decision on the question before the 
House. 


Moving the World. (Give me where 
to stand, and I will move the world. So 
said Archime’des of Syracuse ; and the 
instrument he would have used is the 
lever. 


Mow, a heap, and Mow, to cut down, 
are quite different words. Mow, a heap, 
is the Anglo-Saxon mowe ; but mow, to 
cut down, is the Anglo-Saxon maw-an. 

There is a third Mow (a wry face), 
which is the French moue, as ‘* Faire la 
moue a [quel qwun),”’ to make faces at 
someone, and * Faire la moue,” to pout 
or sulk. (Dutch, mowe.) 


Mowis. The bridegroom of snow, 
who (according to American Indian tra- 
dition) wooed and won a beautiful bride; 
but when morning dawned, Mowis left 
the wigwam, and melted into the sun- 
shine. The bride hunted for him night 
and day in the forests, but never saw 
him more. 


Mozaide (2 syl.) or Monzaida. The 
“*Moor,”’ settled in Calicut, who be- 
friended Vasco da Gama when he first 
landed on the Indian continent. 

“The Moor attends, Mozaide, whose zealous care, 

To Gamn's eyes revealed each treacherous 

snare. Caumoens ; Lusiad, bk. 1x. 

Much or Mudge. The miller’s son, 
in Robin Hood dances, whose great feat 
was to bang with a bladder of peas the 
heads of the gaping spectators. Repre- 
sents the Fool. 


Much Ado about Nothing. The 
plot is from a novel of Belleforest, copied 
from one by Bandello (18th vol., vi.). 
There isa story resembling it in Ariosto’s 
Orlando Furioso, bk. v., another in the 
Geneura of G. Turberville, and Spenser 
has a similar one in the Fuérie Queene, 
book ii. canto iv. 

Much Ado about Nothing. After a war 
in Messina, Claudio, Benedick, and some 
other soldiers went to visit Leonato the 
governor, when the former fell in love 
with Hero, the governor’s daughter ; but 
Benedick and Beatrice, being great 
rattle-pates, fell to jesting, and each 


Muciana Cautio 


positively disliked the other. By a 
slight artifice their hatred was converted 
into love, and Beatrice was betrothed to 
the Paduan lord. In regard to Hero, 
the day of her nuptials was fixed ; but 
Don John, who hated Claudio and 
Leonato, induced Margaret, the lady’s 
maid, to dress up like her mistress, and 
to talk familiarly with one Borachio, a 
servant of Don John’s; and while this 
chit-chat was going on, the Don led 
Claudio and Leonato to overhear it. 
Each thought it to be Hero, and when 
she appeared as a bride next morning at 
church, they both denounced her as a 
light woman. ‘The friar, being per- 
suaded that there was some mistake, 
induced Hero to retire, and gave out 
that she was dead. Leonato now chal- 
lenged Claudio for being the cause of 
Hero’s death, and Benedick, urged on 
by Beatrice, did the same. At this 
crisis Borachio was arrested, and con- 
fessed the trick; Don John fled, the 
mystery was duly cleared up, and the 
two lords married the two ladies. 
Mucia’na Cau'tio. A law-quirk, so 
called from Mu’'cius Sce’vola, a Roman 
pontifex, and the most learned of jurists. 


Muc‘klebackit. Llspeth Muchle- 
backit, mother of Saunders. 

Little Jennie Muchklebackit. Child of 
Saunders. 

Maggie Mucklebachit, Wife of Saun- 
ders. 


Saunders Mucklebackit. The old fisher- 
man at Musslecrag. 

Steenie Mucklebackit. Eldest son of 
Saunders (drowned). (Sir [Valter Scott - 
The Antiquary.) 


Muc’klewrath. Habakkuk Muckle- 
wrath. Afanatic preacher. (Sir MWalter 
Scott: Old Mortality.) 

John Muchklewrath, Smith at Cairn- 
vreckan village. Dame Mucklewrath, 
his wife, isa perfect virago, (Six /Valter 
Scott: Waverley.) 

Mud-honey. So Tennyson calls the 


dirty pleasures of men-about-town. 
(Waud.) 


Mudar’ra. Son of a Moorish prin- 
cess and Goncalo Bustos de Salas de 
Lara, who murdered his uncle Rodri’go, 
while hunting, to avenge the death of 
his sewen half-brothers. (Sze Lara, 
The seven infants of Lava.) 


Muff (4). A dull, stupid person. Sir 
Henry Muff, one of the candidates in 
Dudley’s interlude, called The Rival 
Candidates (1774), is a stupid, blundering 


868 


Mugwump 


.-΄...... 


dolt. He is not only unsuccessful in his 
election, but he finds that his daughter 
has engaged herself during his absence. 


Muffins and Crumpets. Muffins is 
pain-moufiet. Du Cange describes the 
panis mofletus as bread of a more delicate 
nature than ordinary, for the use of pre- 
bends, etc., and says it was made fresh 
every day. Crumpets is erwmple-ettes, 
cakes with little crumples. 


Muffied Cats catch no Mice. (In 
Italian, ‘‘ Catta guantata non pigla 
807 100.) Said of those who work in 
gloves for fear of soiling their fingers. 


Mufti. We went in mufli—out of 
uniform, icog. 

The French say en pékin, and French 
soldiers call civilians pékins, An officer 
who had kept Talleyrand waiting, said 
he had been detained by some pékins, 
‘“* What are they ?’’ asked Talleyrand. 
“ΟΠ, said the officer, ‘‘ we call every- 
body who is not military a pékin.” ‘And 
we,” said Tallyrand, ‘‘ call everybody 
military that is not εἰν. Mufti is an 
Hastern word, signifying a judge. 


Mug-house. An ale-house was so 
called in the eighteenth century. Some 
hundred persons assembled in a large 
tap-room to drink, sing, and spout. One 
of the number wasmade chairman, Ale 
was served to the guests in their own 
mugs, and the place where the mug was 
to stand was chalked on the table. 


Mugello. The giant slain by Aver- 
ardo de Medici, a commander under 
Charlemagne. The tale is interesting, 
for it is said that the Medici took the 
three balls of this giant’s mace for their 
device. Everyone knows that pawn- 
brokers have adopted the three balls as 
a symbol of their trade. (See ender 
Bats for another account.) 


Muggins. A small borough magnate, 
a village leader. To mug is to drink, 
and Mr. Muggins is Mr. Drinker. 


Muggleto’nian. A follower of one 
Lodovic Muggleton, a journeyman tailor, 
who, about 1651, set up for a prophet. 
He was sentenced to stand in the pillory, 
and was fined £500. 


Iiugwump (4). A word borrowed 
from the Algonquin, meaning one who 
acts and thinks independently. In 
Eliot’s Indian Bible the word ‘‘cen- 
turion’’ in the Acts is rendered muq- 
wump. Those who refuse to follow the 
dictum of a caucus are called in the 
United States mugweumps, The chief of 


Mugwump Press 


869 


Multitudes 


the Indians of Esopus is entitled the 
Mugwump. 'Turncoats are mugwumps, 
and all political Pharisees whose party 
vote cannot be relied on. 

“*T suppose I ama political mugwump,’ said the 
Englishman. ‘Not yet,’ replied Mr. Reed. ‘ You 
will be when you have returned to your allegi- 
auce.’ "—The Liverpool Echo, July 19th, 1886. 

Mugwump Press (716). Those 
newspapers which are not organs of 
any special political party, but being 
‘neither hot nor cold,” are disliked by 
all party men.”’ 

“The Mugwump Press, whose function it is to 
enlighten the feeble-minded. . . .”—The New York 
Tribune, 1392. 

Mulat’'to (Spanish). A mule, a mcen- 
grel; applied to the male offspring of a 
negress by a white man. <A female off- 
spring is called a ‘ Mulatta.’? (See 
CREOLE.) 


Mulberry. The fruit was originally 
white, and became blood-red from the 
blood of Pyramus and Thisbé. The 
tale is, that Thisbé was to meet her 
lover at the white mulberry-tree near 
the tomb of Ninus, in a suburb of 
Babylon. Being scared by a lion, 
Thisbé fled, and, dropping her veil, it 
was besmeared with blood. Pyramus, 
thinking his lady-love had been de- 
voured by a lion, slew himself, and 
Thisbé, coming up soon afterwards, 
stabbed herself also. The blood of the 
lovers stained the white fruit of the 
mulberry-tree into its present colour. 

The botanical name is Morus, from the Greek 
moros (a fool) ; so called, we are told in the Mortus 
Anilicus, because “ it is reputed the wisest of all 
flowers, as it never buds till the cold weather is 
past and gone.” 

In the Seven Champions (pt. i. chap. iv.) we are 


told that Eglantine, daughter of the King of 
Thessaly, was transformed into a mulberry-tree. 


Mulciber —i.¢. Vulcan. It is said 
that he took the part of Juno against 
Jupiter, and Jupiter hurled him out of 
heaven. He was three days in falling, 
and at last was picked up, half-dead and 
with one leg broken, by the fishermen 
of the island of Lemnos. (See Milton : 
Paradise Lost, book i., 740, etc.) 


Mule. Mahomet’s favourite white 
mule was Daldah. (Sze ΒΆΘΡΑ.) 


To shoe one’s mule. To appropriate 
part of the money committed to one’s 
trust. This is a French locution— 


“Ferrer Ila mule—i.e. Vaction d'un domestique 
qui frompe son maitre sur le prix reel des choses 
qwvila achetees enson nom. Elle doit son origine 
au pretexte, facile 4 employer, de la depense faite 
pour ferrer la mule.” —Encyclopedie des Proverbes 
Franguis, 

“He had the keeping and disposall of the 
moneys, and yet shod not his own mule.” —Histury 
of Francion (1555), = : 


Mull. 170 makea mull of a job is to 
fail to do it properly. The failure of a 
peg-top to spin is called a mull, hence 
also any blunder or failure. (Scotch, 
mull, dust, or a contraction of muddle.) 
The people of Madras are called 
““Mulls,’’ because they are in a less 
advanced state of givilisation than the 
other two presidencies, in consequence 
of which they are held by them in low 
estimation. (Anglo-Saxon, my/, dust.) 


Mulla. Awbeg, a tributary of the 
Blackwater, in Ireland, which flowed 
close by Spenser’s home. Spenser is 
called by Shenstone ‘the bard of 
Mulla’s silver stream.”’ 


Mul’mutine Laws. ‘The code of 
Dunvallo Mulmutius, sixteenth Kine of 
the Britons (about B.c. 400). This code 
was translated by Gildas from British 
into Latin, and by Alfred into Anglo- 
Saxon. These laws obtained in England 
till the Conquest. (Jfolinshed ; History 
of England, ii. 1.) 

“Muhnutins made our laws, 

Who was the first of Britain which did put 

His brows within a golden crown, and called 

Himself a king.” 

Shakespeare : Cymbeline, iti. 1. 

* Mulmutius was the son of Cloten, King of 
Cornwall. (δὲ Geoffrey of Monmouth, British 
History, ii. 17.) 

Mulread’y Envelope (7%, 1840), is 
an envelope resembling a half-sheet of 
letter-paper, when folded. The space 
left for the address formed the centre of 
an ornamental design by Mulready, the 
artist. When the penny postage en- 
velopes were first introduced, these were 
the stamped envelopes of the day, which, 
however, remained in circulation only 
one year, and were more fit for a comic 
annual than anything else, 


* A set of those odd-looking envelope-things, 
Where Britannia (who seems to be crucified) 


flings 

To her right and her left, funny people with 
wings 

Amongst elephants, Quakers, and Catabaw 
kings,— 

And a taper and wax, and small Queen’s-heads 
in packs, 


Which, when notes are too big you must stick 
on their backs.” Ingoldsby : Legends. 

Multipliers. Alchemists, who pre- 
tended to multiply gold and silver. An 
act was passed (2 Henry IV., c. iv.) 
making the “art of multiplication ”’ 
felony. In the Canterbury Tales, the 
Chanoun Yeman says he was reduced to 
poverty by alchemy, adding: ‘‘ Lo, such 
advantage is’t to multiply.”? (Prologue 
to Chanounces Tale.) 

Multitudes. Dame Juliana Berners, 
in her Booke of St. Albans, says, in desig- 
nating companies we must not use the 


Multum in Parvo 


names of multitudes promiscuously, 
and examples her remark thus :— 


“we say a congregacyon of people, a hoost of 
men, a felyshuppynye of jomen, and a bevy of 
Jadyes ; we must speak of a herde of dere, 
swannys, cranys, or wrenys, a sege of herons or 
bytourys, a muster of pecockes, a wutche of 
nyghtyngales, a flyghte of doves a claterynze of 
choughes, a pryde of lyons, a slewthe of beeres, a 
gagle of geys,a skulke of foxes, a sculle of frerys, 
a pontificalitye of prestys, and a superjluyte of 
nonnes.’ "—Boole of St. Albuns (1486). 


She adds, that a strict regard to these 
niceties better distinguishes ‘‘ gentylmen 
from ungentylmen,”’ than regard to the 
rules of grammar, or even to the moral 
law. (Sce NUMBERS.) 


Multum in Parvo (Latin). Much 
[information] condensed into few words 
or into a small compass. 


Mum. A strong beer made in 
Brunswick ; so called from Christian 
Mummer, by whom it was first brewed. 

Mun (a mask), hence mummer. 

Mun’s the word. Keep what is told you 
a profound secret. (Sze MUMCHANCE.) 
“Seal up your lips, and give no words but—mum." 

Shakespeare: 2 Henry V1, i. 2. 

Mumbo Jumbo. A bogie or bug- 
bear in the Mandingo towns of Africa. 
As the Kaffirs have many wives, it not 
unfrequently happens that the house 
becomes quite unbearable. In such a 
case, either the husband or an agent 
dresses himself in disguise, and at dusk 
approaches the unruly house with a 
following, and makes the most hideous 
noises possible. When the women have 
been sufficiently geared, ‘* Mumbo’’ 
seizes the chief offender, ties her to a 
tree, and scourges her with Mumbo’s 
rod, amidst the derision of all present. 
Mumbo is not an idol, any more than 
the American Lynch, but one disguised 
to punish unruly wives. (See Mongo 
Park: Travels in the Interior of Africa.) 


Mumchance. Silence. Mumchance 
was a game of chance with dice, in which 
silence was indispensable. (Mum is con- 
nected with mumble ; German, mmme, 
a muffle; Danish, menle, to mumble.) 


ss eae ‘mumechance,’ ΠΟΥ Θ᾽ ΘΙ the cehane may 
a 
You must be mum for fear of spoiling all.” 
Machiavell’s Dog}. 
Mummy is the Egyptian word mz, 
wax ; from the custom of anointing the 
body with wax and wrapping it in cere- 
cloth. (Persian, momia, wax: Italian, 
mummia ; French, momie.) (See BEATEN.) 


Mummy Wheat. Wheat said to 
have been taken from some of the Egyp- 


870 


Mundilfori 


tian mummies, and sown in British soil. 
It is, however, a delusion to suppose that 
seed would preserve its vitality for some 
hundreds of years. No seed will do so, 
and what is called mummy wheat is a 
species of corn commonly grown on the 
southern shores of the Mediterranean. 


Mumpers. Beggars. Leland calls 
it a gipsy word. In Norwich, Christmas 
waits used to be called ‘‘ Mumpers.”’ 
In Lincolnshire, ‘‘ Boxing-day”’ is called 
Mumping-day (q.v.).. To mump is to 
beg. Beggars are called the ‘‘ Mumping 
Society.” 

“A parcel of wretches hopping ahout by the 
assistance of their crutches, like so many Lin- 
coln’s Inn Fields mumpers, drawing into a body 
to attack [infest or lbeset}) the coach of sone 
charitable Jord.“—Ned Waid: The London Spy, 
part vy. 

Mumping Pay. St. Thomas’s Day, 
December 2]. A day on which the poor 
used to go about begging, or, as it was 
called, ‘‘ going a-gooding,’’ that is, 
getting gifts to procure good things for 
Christmas (up, to beg). 

“ In Warwickshire the term used was 
“going a-corning,” 1.6, getting gifts of 
corn. In Staffordshire the custom is 
spoken of simply as ‘‘a-gooding.”’ (See 
MUMPERS.) 


Munchau'sen (/a01). The hero of 
a volume of travels, who meets with the 
most marvellous adventures. The in- 
cidents have been compiled from various 
sources, and the name is said to have 
pointed to Hieronymus Karl Friedrich 
von Miinchhausen, a German officer in 
the Russian army, noted for his marvel- 
lous stories (1720-1797). It is a satire 
either on Baron de Tott, or on Bruce, 
whose Zyavels in Abyssinia were looked 
upon as mythical when they first ap- 
peared. The author is Rudolf Erich 
Raspe, and the sources from which the 
adventures were compiled, are Brbel’s 
Facetie, Castiglione’s Cortegiano, Bilder- 
mann’s Utopia, and some of the baron’s 
own stories. 


Mundane Egg (1716). In the Phe- 
nician, Egyptian, Hindu, and Japanese 
systems, it is represented that the world 
was hatched from an egg. In some 
mythologies a bird is represented as lay- 
ing the mundane egg on the primordial 
waters. 


Mundilfo'ri. One of the giant race, 
who had a son and daughter of such 
surpassing beauty that their father called 
them Mani and Sol (moon and swn). 
(Scandinavian mythology. ) 


Mundungus 


871 


Music 


Mundun’‘gus. Bad tobacco. 

τ Mundungus, in Sterne’s Sentimental Journey 
(1768), is meant for Samuel Sharp, a surgeon, who 
published Letters from Italy. Tobias Smollett, 
who published Travels through France and Italy 
(1766), “ one continual snarl,’ was called “Smel- 
fungus.” 

Munera. The daughter of Pollente, 
the Saracen, to whom he gave all the 
spoilshe unjustly took from those who fell 
into his power. ‘Talus, the iron page of 
Sir Ar’tegal, chopped off her golden hands 
and silver feet, and tossed her over the 
castle wall into the moat. (Spenser: 
Faérie Queene, dk. v. 2.) 


Munkar and Nakir. Two black 
angels of appalling aspect, the inquisi- 
tors of the dead. ‘The Koran says that 
during the inquisition the soul is united 
to the body. If the scrutiny is satis- 
factory, the soul is gently drawn forth 
from the lips of the deceased, and the 
body is left to repose in peace; if not, 
the body is beaten about the head with 
iron clubs, and the soulis wrenched forth 
by racking torments. 


Munnin. Memory; one of the two 
ravens that sit perched on the shoulders 
of Odin; the other is Hugin (thought), 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Munta bur [ Wount Tabor]. Theroyal 
residence of the soldan whose daughter 
married Otnit, King of Lombardy. 


Mu'rad. Son of Hadra’ma and Mar- 
sillus, King of Portugal, Castile, Ara- 
yon, Leon, and Valence, when those 
countries were held by the Moors. He 
was called ‘* Lord of the Lion,’’ because 
he always led about a lion in silken 
fetters. When he carried defiance to 
Charlemagne at Fronsac, the lion fell in 
love with Aude the Fair; Murad chas- 
tised it, and the lion tore him to pieces. 
(Croquemitaine, Vi.) 


Mus’cadins of Paris. French dudes 
or exquisites, who aped the London 
mashers in the first French Revolution. 
Their dress was top-boots with thick 
soles, knee-breeches, a dress-coat with 
long tails, and a high stiff collar, and a 
thick cudgel called a constitution. It 
was thought to be John Bullish to as- 
sume a huskiness of voice, a discourtesy 
of manners, and a swaggering vulgarity 
of speech and behaviour. Probably so 
called from being ‘‘ perfumed like a 
popinjay.” 

“Cockneys of London, Muscadins of Paris.” 

Byron: Don Juan, viii. 124. 

Muscular Christianity. Healthy 
or strong-minded religion, which braces 
a man to fight the battle of life bravely 


and manfully. This expression has been 
erroneously attributed to Charles Kings- 
ley. (See his Life, ii. 74, 75.) 

Muses. Nine daughters of Jupiter 
and Mnemosyne, goddesses of poetry, 
history, and other arts and sciences. 
The paintings of Herculaneum show all 
nine in their respective attributes. In 
the National-Museum of Paris is the 
famous collection with which Pius VI. 
enriched the Vatican. lLesueur left a 
celebrated picture of the same subject. 


Muse’'um. The most celebrated are 
the British Museum in London; the 
Louvre at Paris ; the Vatican at Rome ; 
the Museum of Florence; that of St. 
Petersburg; and those ot Dresden, 
Vienna, Munich, and Berlin. 

A walking museum. So Longinus, 
author of a work on The Sublime, was 
called. (A.D. 213-273.) 


Mushroom (an archaic form is 
mushrump). (French, mousseron, a white 
mushroom ; Latin, mscus, moss.) 

“Vocatur fungus muscarum, eo quod in lacte 
ae venuatus interficit muscas.”—<Albertus Magnus, 

Music. futher of music. Giovanni 
Battista Pietro Aloisio da Palestrina. 
Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina was 
“* the prince of musicians.’’ (1429-1594.) 

Father of Greek music, Terpander, 
(Flourished B.c. 676.) 

The prince of music. 
Palestrina (1529-1594). 

Musie hath charms, ete. ; from Con- 
greve’s Mourning Bride, i. 1. 

Music. 


G. Pietro A. da 


Men of genius averse to music. 


The following men of genius were ac- 


tually averse to music: Edmund Burke; 
Byron had no ear for music, and neither 
vocal nor instrumental music afforded 
him the slightest pleasure. Charles 
Fox, Hume, Dr. Johnson, Daniel O’Con- 
nell, Robert Peel, William Pitt ; Pope 
preferred a street organ to Handel’s 
oratorios; the poet Rogers felt actual 
discomfort at the sounds of music; Sir 
Walter Scott, the poet Southey, and 
Tennyson. Seven of these twelve were 
actually poets, and five were orators. 
The Princess Mathilde (Demidoff), an 
excellent artist, with a veritable passion 
for art, may be added to those who have 
had a real antipathy to music. 


Music of the Spheres. Pythag’oras 
was the first who suggested the notion so 
beautifully expressed by Shakespeare— 
“There’s not the smallest orb which thou be- 

hold’st a 
But in his motion like an angel sings, 
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubims.” 
Merchant of Venice, vy. 1. 


Musical Notation 


Mutual Friends 


Plato says that a siren sits on each 
planet, who carols a most sweet song, 
agreeing to the motion of her own par- 
ticular planet, but harmonising with all 
the others. Hence Milton speaks of 
the ‘‘ celestial syrens’ harmony, that sit 
upon the nine enfolded spheres.”” (dA7- 
cades.) (Sce NINE SPHERES.) 

Maximus Tyrius says that the mere 
proper motion of the planets must create 
sounds, and as the planets move at 
regular intervals the sounds must har- 
mouise. 


Musical Notation. (Sve Do.) 


Musical Smail-coal Man (7iic). 
Thomas Britton (1654-1714). 


Musicians. luther of musicians. 
Jubal, ‘‘ the father of all such as handle 
the harp and organ” (Gen. iv. 21). 


Musidora. (Sce Damon.) 


Mu’sits or Musets. Gaps in a 
hedge; places through which a hare 
makes his way to escape the hounds. 


“Tbe many musits through the which heg goes 
Are like a labyrinth to amaze his foes.’ 
Shakespeare: Venus and Adonis. 


The passing of the hare through these 
gaps is termed musing. ‘The word is 
from jusse (old French), a little hole, 


Musket is the Spanish mosqguéte, a 
musket. 

Musiin. So called from Mosul, in 
Asia, where it was first manufactured. 
(French, mousseline ; Italian, mussolino. ) 


Musnud. Cushioned seats, reserved 
in Persia for persons of distinction. 

Muspel. A region of fire, whence 
Surtur will collect flames to set fire to 
the universe. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Muspetheim (3 syl.). The abode of 
fire which at the beginning of time 
existed in the south. It was light, 
warm, and radiant; but was guarded 
by Surt with a flaming sword. Sparks 
were collected therefrom to make the 
stars. (Scandinavian mythology.) (See 
MANHEIM.) 


“The Muspelbeim is a noted Scandinavian poem 
of the 4th century. Muspelheim is the Scandina- 
Vian hell,and the subject of the poem is the Last 
Judgment. The great Surt or Surtur is Anti- 
chivist, ὙΠῸ αὖ the end of the world will set fire to 

itl creation. The poem is in alternate ver se, and 
Bley, 5 both imagination and poetic talent.” 


Mustard. Connected with must. 
In 1382 Philip the Bold, Duke of 
Burgundy, granted to the town of 
Dijon, noted for its mustard, armorial 


bearings” with the motto Movunr ME 
TARDE (Muliwn ardeo, I ardently de- 
sire), The arms and "motto, engraved 


on the principal gate, were adopted as a 
trade-mark by the mustard merchants, 
and got shortened into Moult-tarde (to 
burn “much). 


The nasturtium is of the mustard family, in 
Spanish masturcio; and the Italian mustarda 185 
mustard. 


Mustard. After meat, 
have now no longer need of it, 
de la moutarde apres diner.’ 


Musulman (plural, IJvsulmans or 
Moslems)—that is, Moslemin, plural of 
Moslem. A Mahometan; so called from 
the Arabic muslim, a believer. 


Mutantur. ‘ Omniamutantur, nos et 
mutamur in ills,” is by Nicholas Bor- 
bonius, a Latin poet of the sixteenth 
century . Dr. Sandys says that the Em- 
peror Lothair, of the Holy Roman Em- 
pire, had already said, ‘* Zempora 
mutantur, nos et muta mur in illis.” 

MuteasaFish. Quitesilent. Some 


fish make noises, but these are me- 
chanical, not organic. 


Mutes at Funerals. This was a 
Roman custom. The undertaker, at- 
tended with lictors dressed in black, 
marched with the corpse; and the 
undertaker, as master of the cere- 
monies, assigned to each follower his 
proper place in the procession. 


Mutton (French, movton), A gold 
coi impressed with the image of a 
lamb. 


Mutton-eating King (7/ic), Charles 
11. of England. The witty Earl of 
Rochester wrote this mock epitaph on 
his patron :— 

“ Here lies our mutton-eating king, 
Whose word no man relies on ; 
He never saida foolish thing, 
And never did a wise one.’ 

Come and cat your mutton with me. 

Come and dine with me. 


Mutton-fist. A large, coarse, red fist. 


Muttons. A Stock xchange term 
for the Turkish ’65 loan, partly secured 
by the sheep-tax. 

Revenons a nos moutons. (See Movu- 
TONS.) 


Mutual Friends. Can two persons 
be called mutual friends? Does not the 
word of necessity imply three or more 
than three? (See the controversy in 
Notes and Queries, June 9, 1894, p. 451.) 


“ A mutual flame was quickly caught, 
Was qnickly, too, revealed ; 
For neither bosom lodged a thought 
Which virtue keeps concealed.” 
Edwin and Enna, 


mustard. 1 
8 C'est 


(Mutual = reciprocal.) 


Muzzle 


873 Mysterious Three 


Muzzle. Zo muzzle the ox that 
treadeth out the corn. Not to pay for 
work done; to expect other persons will 
work for nothing. The labourer is 
worthy of his hire, and to withhold that 
hire is to muzzle the ox that treadeth 
out your corn. 


My Eye (4//). (Sce under Aut.) 


Mynheer Closh. A Dutchman. 
Closh or Claus is an abbreviation of 
Nicholaus, a common name in Holland. 
Sandy, a contraction of Alexander, is a 
similar nickname for a Scotchman. 


My’nian Sails. The ship Argo; so 
culed because its crew were natives of 
Mynia. 

“ When his black whirlwinds o’er the ocean rolled 
And rent the Mynian sails.” , 
Camoens: Lusiad, bk. vi. 

Myr’midons of the Law. Bailifis, 
sheriffs’ officers, and other law menials. 
Any rough fellow employed to annoy 
another is the employer’s myrmidon. 

The Myrmidons were a people of 
Thessaly who followed Achilles to the 
siege of Troy, and were distinguished 
for their savage brutality, rude be- 
haviour, and thirst for rapine. 


Myron. A Greek statuary and sculp- 
tor, born in Boeotia, B.c. 480. A fellow- 
disciple of Polyclétus, and a younger 
contemporary of Phidias, His great 
works are in bronze. By far the most 
celebrated of his statues were his Dis- 
cobolus and his Cow. The cow is re- 
presented lowing. (Discobolus is a quoit 
or discus player.) It is said that the 
cow was so true to nature that a bull 
mistook it for a living animal. 

* There are several similar legends. Thus it is 
said ‘that Apelles painted Alexander’s horse so 
realistically that a living horse mistook it and 
began tu neigh. Velasquez painted a Spanish 
adiniral so true to life, that Felipe IV. mistook 
the painting for the manand reproved it severely 
for not being with the fleet. Zeuxis painted 
some grapes so well that birds flew at them to 
peck them. Quentin Matsys painted a fly on a 
man’s leg so inimitably that Mandyn, the artist, 
tried to brush it off with his handkerchief. Parr- 
hesios, of Ephesus, painted a curtain so well that 
Zeuxis was deceived by it,and told him to draw 
it aside that he might see the picture behind it. 


Myrra. An Ionian slave, the beloved 
concubine of Sardanapa’lus, the Assyrian 
king. She roused him from his indo- 
lence to oppose Arba’cés the Mede, who 
aspired to his throne, and when she 
found that his cause was hopeless in- 
duced him to place himself on a funeral 
pile, which she fired with her own hand, 
and springing into the flames, perished 
with her beloved lord and master. 
(Byron » Sardanapalus.) 


Myr’rophores (3 syl.; the myrrh 
bearers). The three Marys who went 
to see the sepulchre, bearing myrrh and 
spices. In Christian art they are re- 
presented as carrying vases of myrrh in 
their hands, 


Myrtle (76). If you look at a leaf of 
myrtle in a strong light, you will see 
that it is pierced with innumerable little 
punctures. According to fable, Phzedra, 
wife of Theseus, fell in love with Hip- 
polotus, her step-son; and when Hip- 
polotus went to the arena to exercise 
his horses, Pheedra repaired to a myrtle- 
tree in Troezen to await his return, and 
beguiled the time by piercing the leaves 
witha hair-pin. The punctures referred 
to are an abiding memento of this 
tradition. 

In the Orlando Furioso Astolpho is 
changed into a myrtle-tree by Acrisia. 

Myrtle. The ancient Jews believed that 
the eating of myrtle leaves conferred 
the power of detecting witches; and it 
Was a superstition that if the leaves 
crackled in the hands the person beloved 
would prove faithful. 

The myrtle which dropped blood. 7inéas 
(book iii.) is represented as tearing up 
the Myrtle which dropped blood. Poly- 
dorus tells us that the barbarous in- 
habitants of the country pierced the 
Myrtle (then a living being) with spears 
and arrows. The body of the Myrtle 
took root and grew into the bleeding 
tree. 


Mysteries of Woods and Rivers. 
The art of hunting and fishing. 


Mystery. A kind of medieval drama, 
the characters and events of which were 
drawn from sacred history. 


Mystery or Mysterium. Said tomake 
up the number 666 referred to in Rev, 
xvii. 6. This would not be worthy 
notice, except for the fact that the word 
“mystery ’’ was, till the time of the 
Reformation, inscribed on the Pope’s 
mitre. 

*’ Almost any phrase or long name 
can be twisted into this number. (See 
NUMBER OF THE BEAST.) 


Mysteries. The three greater mys- 
teries (in Christianity). The Trinity, 
Original Sin, and the Incarnation. 

*., Surely the resurrection of the body should he 
added. 

Mysterious Three (7712) of Scandi- 
navian mythology were ‘‘Har’’ (the 
Mighty), the ‘‘ Like-Mighty,”’ and the 
“Third Person,’’ who sat on three 
thrones above the rainbow, Then came 


N 


874 Nadir 


the ““ Msir,”’ of which Odin was chief, 
who lived in Asgard (between the rain- 
bow and earth) ; next come the ‘‘ Vanir,” 
or gods of the ocean, air, and clouds, of 
which deities Niord was chief. 


N 


N. This letter represents a wriggling 
eel, and is called in Hebrew nun (a 
fish). 


N, in Spanish, has sometimes a mark 
over it, thus—fi. This mark is called a 
tilde, and alters the sense and pro- 
nunciation of a word. Thus, ‘‘pena”’ 
means ponishment, but “pefia,”” a rock. 
(See MARKS IN GRAMMAR. ) 


N. (One whose name is not given.) 
(See M or N.) 


N, a numeral. 


50,000. N 
900,000. 


WN added to Greek words ending ina 
short vowel to lengthen it ‘by posi- 
tion,’ and ‘‘1’’ added to French words 
beginning with a vowel, when they 
follow a word ending with a vowel 
(as si on for δὲ on), is called N or L 
‘“‘epheleys’tic’’ (tagged-on); Greek, 
cpi helko, (See MARKS IN GRAMMAR.) 

N. H. Bugs. The letters are the 
initials of Norfolk Howard, in allusion 
to a Mr. Bugg who, in 1863, changed 
his name to Norfolk Howard. 


nth, or nth plus One, in University 
slang, means to the utmost degree. 
Thus, Cut to the nth means wholly un- 
noticed by a friend. The expression is 
taken from the index of a mathematical 
formula, where 7 stands for any num- 
ber, and 2 - 1, one more than any 
number. 


Nab. The fairy which offers Orpheus 
for food in the infernal regions a roasted 
ant, a flea’s thigh, butterflies’ brains, 
some sucking mites, a rainbow-tart, and 
other delicacies of like nature, to be 
washed down with dewdrops, beer made 
from seven barleycorns, and the super- 
naculum of earth-born topers. (Aug: 
Orpheus and Eurydice.) 


Greek ν = 0, but ,v ΕΞ 
(Rom.) = 900, but N = 


Nab. To seize without warning. A 
contraction of apprehend. (Norwegian, 
nappe, to catch at, nap, snatch ; Swedish, 
nappa.) Our nap (to filch or steal) is a 
variety of the same word. 


The keeper or catch of a latch or bolt is called 
the nab, 


Nab-man. A sheriff’s officer. (See 
Nas.) 


“Old Dornton has sent the nabman after him 
at last.’—Sir W. Scott: Guy Mannering (drama- 
tised by Terry, ii. 3). 

Nabo or Nebo. One of the divinities 
of the Assyrians, supposed to be the 
moon. (See Isa. xlvi. 1.) Many of the 
kings of Babylon assumed the name. 


Nabonassar is Nabo-n-assar, Nabe-of-Asshur or 
Assyria. 

Nabochadanasor is Naho-chadon (or adon)-[n]- 
assur, i.e. Nabo-king-of-Asshur or Assyria 

Nabopolassar is Nabo-[son of] pul- Assyrian. 

Nebochadnezzar is Nebo-chad (or adon)- n-assur, 
i.e. Nabo or Neho-king-of-Asshur. 


Belchazzar is Baal-ch’-azzar, 1,6. 
Baal-chadon-n-assar, or Baal-king-of 
Asshur, 


Nabob’ (generally called Na’bob). 
Corruption of the Hindu word nawah, 
the plural of naib, An administrator of 
a province and commander of the Indian 
army under the Mogul Empire. These 
men acquired great wealth and lived in 
Eastern splendour, so that they gave 
rise to the phrase, ‘* Rich as the nawaéb,” 
corrupted into ‘‘ Rich as a nabob.”? In 
England we apply the phrase to a mer- 
chant who has attained great wealth in 
the Indies, and has returned to live in 
his native country. 


Nabonassar or Nebo-adon-Assur. 
(Nebo, Prince of Assyria.) Founder of 
the Babylonian and Chaldean kingdom, 
and first of the dynasty of Nabonassar. 

Era of Nabonassar began Wednesday, 
February 26th, 747 B.c., the day of 
Nabonassar’s accession. It was used by 
Ptolemy, and by the Babylonians, in all 
their astronomical calculations. 


Naboth’s Vineyard. The possession 
of another coveted by one able to possess 
himself of it. (1 Kings xxi. 1-10.) 

“The little Manor House property had always 
been a Naboth’s vineyard to his father.’’—Good 
Words, 1887. 

Nadab, in Dryden’s satire of Absalom 
and Achitophel, 1s meant for Lord 
Howard, of Esrick or Escriek, a pro- 
fligate who laid claim to great piety. 
Nadab offered incense with strange fire, 
and was slain by the Lord (Lev. Xe 2); 
and Lord Howard, while imprisoned in 
the Tower, is said to have mixed the 
consecrated wafer with a compound of 
roasted apples and sugar, called lamb’s- 
wool, 


“ And canting Nadab let oblivion damn, 
Who made new porridge of the paschal lamb ” 
Absalom and Achitophel, part 1. 538-9, 


Na‘dir. An Arabic word, signifyi ing 
that point in the heavens which is directly 
opposite to the zenith. 

From zenith down to nadir, From the 


or 


Nail 


Nadir Shah 87 
highest point of elevation to the lowest 
depth. 

Nadir. A representation of the 


planetary system. 


“We then lost (1091) a most beautiful table, 
fabricated of different metals. .... Saturn was of 
copper, Jupiter of gold, Mars of iron, the Sun of 
latten, "Mercury of amber, Venus of tin, and the 
Moon of silver... . It was the most celebrate 1 
nadir in all England."—Jngulphus. 


Nadir Shah. Kouli Khan, a Persian 
warrior. (1687-1747.) 


Nag. A horse. This is an example 
of 7 of the article joined to the follow- 
ing noun, as in the word newt = an 
ewt. (Danish and Norwegian, og ; 
Anglo-Saxon, coh or eh ; Latin, eq{ wus] Ὁ 
Dutch, xegge.) Taylor (1630) has naggor, 
as— 


“Wert thon George with thy 
That foughtess with the dra 


“ Shakespeare’s naunt and uncle are 
mine-aunt and mine-uncle. 


Nag, Nagging. Constant fault- 
finding. (Anglo-Saxon, gnag-an, to 
gnaw, bite.) We calla slight but con- 
stant pain, like a tooth- -ache, a nagging 


pl in. 


Nag’s Head Consecration. On the 
passing of the first Act of Uniformity 
in Queen Elizabeth’s reign, fourteen 
bishops vacated their sees, and all the 
other sees, except Llandaff, were at the 
time vacant. The question was how to 
obtain consecration so as to preserve the 
succession called ‘‘ apostolic’? unbroken, 
as Llandaff refused to officiate at 
Parker’s consecration. In this dilemma 
(the story runs) Scory, a deposed bishop, 
was sent for, and officiated at the Vag’s 
Head tavern, in Cheapside, thus trans- 
mitting the succession. 

Such is the tale. Strype refutes 
the story, and so does Dr. Hook, We 
are told that it was not the consecration 
which took place at the Nag’s Head, 
but only that those who took part in it 
dined there subsequently. We are 
furthermore told that the Bishops 
Barlow, Scory, Coverdale, and Hodg- 
kins, all officiated at the consecration. 


Naga. Serpents; the king of them is 
Sesha, the sacred serpent of Vishnu. 
(Hindu mythology.) 


Na/glfar. The giants’ ship, in which 
they will embark on ‘‘the last day’ to 
give battle to the gods. It is made of 
the nails of the dead. (Old Norse, xag/, 
a human nail, and fara, to make.) 
(Scandinavian mythology.)  Piloted by 


Hr ymer, 


Nahushtan. Trumpery bits of brass, 
(2 Kings xviii. 4.) 


Naiads. Nymphs of lakes, foun- 
tains, rivers, and streams. (Classical 
mythology.) (See Farry.) 

Nail. 


Down on the nail, Pay down on the 


nail. In ready money. In Latin: 

ἐς Super unguem ἜΣ in) Brenchi 9707; 

Vongle;” as, “ Boire la goutte sur 
? 


Vongle’”? (sce SuPERNACULUM), ‘ Payer 
pubis sur Vongle,’”’ where rubis means red 
wine. The Latin wagulus (from wrgiis) 
means a ‘‘shot” or reckoning, hence 
ungulum dare, to pay one’s reckoning. 


“Quo quibus prisis, et cariagiis pleana flat 
solucio super unguem.”’—An Indenture dated 
mee 15th, 1326 (Scot's Act). 


* O'Keefe says: “In the centre of Limerick 
Exchange is a pillar with a circular plate of 
copper about three feet in diameter, called The 
Nail, on which the ear nest of all stock- exchange 
bargains has to be paid.” —(Recollections.) 


A similar custom prevailed at Bristol, where 
were four pillars, called nails, in front of the 
Exchange for a similar purpose. In Liverpool 
Exchange there is a plate of copper called 176 
Nail, on which bargains are settled, 

Hung on the nail. Up the spout, put 
in pawn. The custom referred to is that 
of hanging each pawn on a nail, with a 
number attached, and giving the cus- 
tomer a duplicate thereof, V ery similar 
to the custom of guarding hats, cloaks, 
walking-sticks, and umbrellas, in public 
exhibitions and assemblies. 

To hit the nail on the head. To come 
to a right conclusion. In Latin, ‘‘ Rem 
tenes.’ The Germans have the exact 
phrase, “Den Nagel auf den kopf treffen.”’ 


Nail (For want of a). ‘“ For want of 
a nail, the shoe is lost; for want of a 
shoe, the horse is lost; and for want of 
a horse, the rider is lost.” (Herbert : 
Jacula Prudent.) 


Nail-money. Six crowns given to 
the “ΤΟΥ des harnoys”’ for affixing the 
arms of a knight to the pavilion. 


Nail fixed in the Temple (of 
Jupiter). On September 15th a nail was 
annually driven into the wall of the 
temple of Jupiter. This was originally 
done to tally the year, but subsequently 
it lapsed into a religious ceremony for 
warding off calamities from the city. 
Originally the nail was driven in the 
wall by the praetor maximus, subse- 
quently by one of the consuls, and lastly 
by the dictator. (See Livy, vii. 3.) 


Nail in One’s Coffin. 170 drive a nail 
into one’s coffin. "Yo shorten life by 
anxiety, drink, ete. ‘Topers call a dram 


Nail 


876 Name 


‘a nail in their coffin,” in jocular allu- 
sion to the teetotal axiom. 

“ Care to our coffin adds a nail, no doubt ; 

But every grin so merry draws one out.” 

Peter Pindar (John Wolcot) : Bxpostulatory 
Odes, Ode Xv. 

Nail One’s Colours to the Mast 
(1.0). To refuse to surrender. When 
the colours are nailed to the mast they 
cinnot be lowered in proof of sub- 
mission. 

Nailed. Caught and secured in jail. 
(See του.) 

1 nailed him (or it.) I hooked him, 
Τ pinned him, meaning I seeured him. 
Tsaiah (xxii. 23) says, “1 will fasten 
him asa nail in a sure place.’? How- 
ever, the idea may still be, I secured 
him by making him pay down the 
earnest on 716 Nail. (See Pay on the 
Nuil, second clause. ) 


Nails driven into Cottage Walls. 
This was a Roman practice, under the 
notion that it kept off the plague. L. 
Manlius was named dictator (A.U.c. 390) 
‘*to drive the nail.”’ 

Our cottagers still nail horseshoes to 
thresholds to ward off evil spirits. Mr. 
Coutts, the banker, had two rusty horse- 
shoes fastened on the highest step out- 
side Holly Lodge. 


Nails of the Cross. Zhe nails with 
which our Lord was fastened to the cross 
were, in the Middle Ages, objects of 
great reverence. Sir Joho Maundeville 
says, ‘He had two in his hondes, and 
two in his feet ; and of on of theise the 
emperour of Caustantynoble made a 
brydille to his hors, to bere him in 
bataylle ; and throghe vertue thereof he 
overcam his enemyes”’ (c. vil.). Fifteen 
are shown as relics. (Sve Inon Crown.) 


Nain Rouge. A Lutin or goblin of 
Normandy, kind to fishermen. There is 
another called Le petit homme rouge. 


Naivete (pron. nah'-eve-ty). Ingen- 
uous simplicity; the artless innocence 
of one ignorant of the conventions of 
society. The term is also applied to 
poetry, painting, and sculpture. The 
word is formed from the Latin xatus, 
nara, ete., meaning nature without 
art. 

Naked Lady. Meadow saffron 
(Colchicum Autumnale). Called naked 
because, like the almond, peach, etc., 
the flowers come out before the leaves. 
It is poetically called ‘the leafless orphan 
of the year,”’ the flowers being orphaned 
or destitute of foliage. Some call it 


“Naked Boy,’ and the ‘‘ Naked Boy 
Courts”? of London were places where 
meadow saffron was sold. 


Naked Truth. The fable says that 
Truth and Falsehood went bathing ; 
Falsehood came first out of the water, 
and dressed herself in Truth’s garments. 
Truth, unwilling to take those of False- 
hood, went naked. 


Nakeer. (See MuNKAR.) 


Nala, a legendary king of India, 
whose love for Damayanti and subse- 
quent misfortunes have supplied subjects 
for numerous poems. Dean Milman has 
translated into English the episode from 
the Mahabharata, and W. Yates the 
famous Sanskrit poem called Nalodaya. 


Na’ma. A daughter of the race of 
man, who was beloved by the angel 
Zaraph. Her one wish was to love 
purely, intensely, and holily; but she 
fixed her love on a seraph, a creature, 
more than on her Creator; therefore, in 
punishment, she was condemned to abide 
on earth, ‘‘unchanged in heart and 
frame,’’ so long as the earth endureth ; 
but when time is no more, both she and 
her angel lover will be admitted into 
those courts ‘‘ where love never dies.’’ 
(Moore : Loves of the Angels, story iii.) 


Namby Pamby Philips. Ambrose 
Philips (1671-1749). His nickname was 
bestowed upon him by Harry Carey, the 
dramatist. for his verses addressed to 
Lord Carteret’s children, and was 
adopted by Pope. This was not John 
Philips, author of the Splendid Shilling. 
“‘ Namby”’ is a baby way of pronouncing 
Ambrose, and ‘‘ Pamby”’ is a jingling 
reduplication, 

Macaulay says: “ This sort of verse has been 
called [Namby Pamby] after the name of its 
author.” 

Name. 

“What'sina name? That which we calla rose, 

By any other name would smell as sweet.” | 

Shakespeare : Romeo and Juliet, ii. 2. 

To take God’s name invain. To use it 
profanely, thoughtlessly, or irreverently. 

“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy 
God in vain.” —Exod. xx. 7. 

Name. Fairies are extremely averse 
to having their names known, indeed 
there seems to be a strange identity be- 
tween personality and name. Thus we 
are forbidden to take God’s “name in 
vain,’’ and when Jacob wrestled with 
the angel, he was anxious to know his 
opponent’s name. (Compare the Greek 
onoina and the Latin anima.) 


Name-son 


877 


Napoleon ITI. 


Name-son. Name-sake ; also name- 
child, ete. 


“God for ever bless your honour, I am your 
name-son, sure enough.’—Smollett : Adventures of 
Sir Luuncelot Greaves. 

Name the Day. 
r1ag2. 

Names. 

To call a personnanes. To blackguard 
a person by calling him nicknames, 


Names of the Puritans. 

Praise-God Barebones. 
seller in Fleet Street. 

If-Jesus-Christ-had-not-died-for-thee- 
thou-hadst-been-damned Barebones. His 
son ; usually called Damned Dr. Bare- 
bones. 

Nancy. The sailor’s choice in Dib- 
din’s exquisite song beginning, ‘‘’ T'was 
post meridian half-past four.” At haltf- 
past four he parted by signal from his 
Nancy; at eight he bade her a long 
adieu; next morn a storm arose, and 
four sailors were washed overboard, 
* but love forbade the waves to snatch 
our tar from Nancy’’; when the storm 
ceased an enemy appeared, but when 
the battle was hottest our gallant friend 
*“pat up a prayer and thought on 
Nancy.”’ 

Miss Nancy. Mrs. Anna Oldfield, a 
celebrated actress, buried in Westminster 
Abbey. She died in 1730, and her re- 
mains lay in state, attended by two 
noblemen, She was buried in a very 
fine Brussels lace head-dress, a holland 
shift, with a tucker and double-ruffles 
of the same lace; new kid gloves, ete. 


“*Odious ! In woollen ?*Twouldasaint provoke !’ 
Were the last words that poor Narcissa spoke.” 
Pope: Morul Essaus. 


An effeminate young 


Fix the day of mar- 


A leather- 


Miss Nancy. 
man. 

Nancy of the Vale. A village 
maiden who preferred Strephon to the 
gay lordlings who sought her. (Shen- 
stone.) 


Nankeen. So called from Nankin, 
in China. It is the natural colour of 
Nankin cotton. 


Nanna. Wife of Balder. When the 
blind-god slew her husband, she threw 
herself. upon his funeral pile and was 
burnt to death. 


Nannie, to whom Burns has addressed 
several of his songs, was Miss Fleming, 
daughter of a farmer in the parish of 
Tarbolton, Ayrshire, 


Nantes (1 syl.). Edict of Nantes. 
The decree of Henri Iv. of France, 
published from Nantes in 1598, securing 


freedom of religion to all Protestants. 
Louis XLV. repealed this edict in 1685. 


Nap. Zo go nap. To stake all the 
wiunings on the cards in hand; hence, 
to risk allon one venture. Nap is a game 
of ecards; so called from Napoleon IIT. 


Nap (A), a doze or short sleep, as 
“To take a nap,’’ is the Anglo-Saxon 
hneppian or hnapp-ian (to take a nap ; 
the nap of cloth is the Anglo-Saxon 


hnoppa.) 


Naph'tha. The drug used by Mede’a 
for anomting the w edding robe of 
Glaucé, daughter of King Cre’on, 
whereby she was burnt to death on the 
morning of her marriage with Jason. 

Na’pier’s Bones. A method in- 
vented by Baron Napier, of Merchiston, 
for shortening the labour of trieno- 
metrical calculations. Certain figures 
are arranged on liitle slips of paper or 
ivory, and simply by shitring these slips 
the result required is obtainel. They 
are called bones because the baron used 
bone or ivory rods instead of cardboard. 


Napoleon III. Few men have had 


so many nicknames. 

MAN OF DECEMBER, So called hecanse his coup 
détat was December 2nd,and he was made em- 
peror December 2nd, 1852. 

MAN OF SEDAN, and, by a pun, WM. Sedantaire. 
Tt was at Sedan he surrendered his sword to 
William [., King of Prussia (187). 

MAN OF SLLENCE, from his great taciturnity. 

COMTE D ARENENBERG, the name and title he 
aoe punes When he escaped from the fortiess of 

am. 

BADINGUET, the name of the mason who 
changed clothes with him when he escaped from 
Ham. The emper..rs partisans were called 
Badingueur, those of the empress were Monti- 
joueanx, 

BOUSTRAPA is a compound of Bouflosne], 
Stra{sbourg], and Pafris], the places of his noted 
escapade. 

RANTLPOLE = harum-secarum, half-fool and 
hilf-madman. 
VERHUEL. 

explained, 


“" There are 


A patronymic, which cannot be h_re 


some very curious nu- 
merical coincidences connected with 
Napoleon III. and Eugénie. The last 
complete year of their reign was 1869. 
(In 1870 Napoleon was dethroned and 
exiled.) 

Now, if to the year of coronation 
(1852), you add either the birth of Napo- 
leon, or the birth of Eugénie, or the 
capitulation of Paris, or the date of mar- 
riage, the sum will always be 1869. For 
example: 


Coro- 
cl na- Vhsse 1852 1852 

tion. 

Birth 1) Birth 1) Da‘e 1) Capit- 
= of sl οἵ 8 of 5. Lulatn 
0 ( Napo- J Eugé-| 5( mar- HC LOS 
9) leon. 6) nie. 3) riage. 1) Paris, 

1869 1359 1369 1800 


Napping 


8 


- 


‘ 


8 


Nathaniel 


And if to the year of marriage (1853) 
these dates are added, they will give 1870, 
the fatal year. 

Napping. 170 catch one napping. To 
find a person unprepared or off his guard. 
(Anglo-Saxon, Anappung, slumbering.) 


Nappy Ale. Strong ale is so called 
because it makes one nappy, or because 
it contains a nap or frothy head, 


Nar'aka. The hell of the Hindus. 
It has twenty-eight divisions, in some of 
which the victims are mangled by ravens 
and owls; in others they will be doomed 
to swallow cakes boiling hot, or walk 
over burning sands. Hach division has 
its name: Ruwrava (fearful) is for liars 
and false witnesses; Rodha (obstruction) 
for those who plunder a town, kill a cow, 
or strangle a man; Siihara (swine) for 
drunkards and stealers of gold; ete. 


Narcissa, in the Night Thoughts, 
was Elizabeth Lee, Dr. Young’s step- 
daughter. In Night iii. the poet says 
she was clandestinely buried at Mont- 
pelier, because, being a Protestant, she 
was ‘‘denied the charity that dogs en- 
joy.’? (For Pope’s Narcissa see NANCY.) 

Narcissus (Ze). This charming 
flower is named from the son of Cephisus, 
This beautiful youth saw his reflection 
in a fountain, and thought it the pre- 
siding nymph of the place. He tried to 
reach it, and jumped into the fountain, 
where he died. ‘The nymphs came to 
take up the body that they might pay 
it funeral honours, but found “only a 
flower, which they called Narcissus, 
after the name of the son of Cephisus. 
(Ovid's Metamorphoses, 11. 346, ete.) 

Plutarch says the plant is called Narcissus from 
the Greek narke (Numbness), and ‘that it is pro- 


perly narcosis, meaning the plant which produces 
numbness or palsy. 


“Sweet Echo, sweetest nymph that 
seen . 
Canst thou not tell me of agentle pair, 
That likest thy Narcissus are ?’ 
Milton : Comus, 235, ete. 


Echo fell in love with Narcissus. 


Nardac. The highest title of honour 
in the realm of Lilliput. Gulliver re- 
ceived this distinction for carrying off 
the whole fleet of the Blefuscu’dians. 
(Swift: Gulliver's Travels ; Voyage to 
Lilliput, v.) 

Narrow House ὁ) Home. A coffin ; 
the grave. Gray calls the grave a 
‘“narrow cell.”’ 


“ Bach in his narrow cell for ever laid, 
The rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep.” 


Elegy. 
Narrowdale Noon (711). To defer 


a matter till Narrowdale noon is to defer 


liv’st un- 


ἐς Christmas is coming.”’ 
Ans., “80 is Narrowdale Noon.’’ Your 

. . was deferred or delayed, like 
Narrowdale Noon. Narrowdale is in 
Derbyshire. ‘The Dovedale is a valley 
about three miles long, and nowhere 
more than a quarter of a mile broad. 
It is approached from the north by a 
“narrow dale,’ in which dwell a few 
cotters, who never see the sun all the 
winter, and when its beams first pierce 
the dale in the spring it is only for a 
few minutes in the afternoon. 


Narses (2 syl.). A Roman general 
against the Goths ; the terror of children. 
(473-568.) (See Boats.) 

“The name of Narses was the formidable sound 
with which the Assyriiun mothers were accus- 
tomed to terrify their infants.’—Gibbon: Deeline 
and Fall, ete., Vill. 219. 

Narwhal. Drinking-cups made of 
the bone of the narwhal used to be 
ereatly valued, from the supposition 
that they counteracted the fatal effects 
of poison, 

Naseby (Northamptonshire) is the 
Saxon nafela (the navel). It is so called 
because it was considered the navel or 
centre of England. Similarly, Delphi 
was called the *‘ navel of the earth,’’ and 
in this temple was a white stone kept 
bound with a red ribbon, to represent 
the navel and umbilical cord. 


it indefinitely. 


Nasi. The president of the Jewish 
Sanhedrim. 
Na’so. The ‘‘surname”’ of Ovid, the 


Roman poet, author of J/etamorphoses, 
Naso means “ἢ nose,’’ hence Holofernes’ 
pun: ‘‘ And why Naso, but for smelling 
out the odoriferous flowers of fancy.’’ 


(Shakespeare : Love's Labow"s Lost, iv. 
4.) 
Nasser. The Arabian merchant 


whose fables are the delight of the Arabs. 
Τ᾽ Herbelot tells us that when Mahomet 
read to them the history of the Old Tes- 
tament, they cried out with one voice 
that Nasser’s tales were the best; upon 
which Mahomet gave his malediction on 
Nasser, and all who read hin. 


Na’strond [dead-man’s region]. The 
worst marsh in the infernal regions, 
where serpents pour forth venom in- 
cessantly trom the high walls. Here 
the murderer and the perjured will be 
doomed to live for ever. (Old Norse, 
na, a dead body, and strond, a strand.) 
(Scandinavian mythology.) (See Lix- 
STROND.) 


Nathaniel (Sir). A grotesque curate 
in Shakespeare’s Love’s Labour’s Lost. 


Nation 


Nation of Gentlemen. So George 
IV. called the Scotch when, in 1822, he 
visited that country. 


Naticn of Shopkeepers. Napoleon 
was not the first to call the English “a 
nation cf shopkeepers ”’ in contempt. 


Naticrai Anthem. Both the music 
and words were composed by Dr. Henry 
Carey in 1740. However, in Antwerp 
cathedral is a MS. copy of it which 
affirms that the words and music were by 
Dr. John Bull ; adding that it was com- 
posed on the occasion of the discovery 
of Gunpowder Plot, to which the words 
‘‘ frustrate their knavish tricks”’ espe- 
cially allude. 


National Anthems. 

Of Ausrrta. Haydn’s Hymn to the 
Emperor. 

Breictan. The Brabanconne. 

Denmark. Song of Danebrog [a flag 
with a white cross, which fell from 
heaven in the 13th century at the prayer 
of Waldemar II. }. 

Enotann. Lule Britannia, words by 
Thomson, music by Handel, and (od 
Save the King. (See above.) 

France. Ancient, the Chanson de 
Roland. Since the Revolution, the 
Marseillaise and the Chant du Départ. 

Germany. Arndt’s Des Deutschen 
Vaterland : *‘ Heil Dir im Siegeskranz.”’ 

Huneaary. The Rakoczy March. 

Traty. Daghela Avanti un Passo (i.e. 
Move a step onward], 1821. Garibaldi’s 
warlike Hymn, and Godfredo Mameli’s 
Italian Brethren, Italy has Awaked, 
composed by Mercantini. 

Russia. (God Protect the Czar. 

Scorranp. Several Jacobite songs, 
the most popular being The King shall 
Enjoy his own Again, When the King 
Comes o'er the Water, and Lilliburlero of 
1688. 

National Colours. (See CoLours.) 


National Convention. The assem- 
bly of deputies which assumed the 
government of France on the overthrow 
of the throne in 1792. It succeeded the 
National Assembly. 


National Debt. Money borrowed 
by the Government, on the security of 
the taxes, which are pledged to the 
lenders for the payment of interest. 

The National Debt in William ITT,’s 
reign was £15,730,439. 

At the commencement of the American 
war, £128,583,635. 

At the close thereof, £249,851,628. 

At the close of the French war, 
£810,850,491. 


79 Natural 

Cancelled between 1817 and 1854, 
£85,538, 790. 

Created by Crimean war, £68,623,199. 

In 1866, £802,842,949. 

In 1872 it was £792,740,000. 

In 187 it was £714,797,715. 

In 1879 it was £702,430,594. 

In 1892 it was £677,679,571. 

In 1893 it was £671,042,842. 


National Exhibition. So Douglas 
Jerrold called a public execution at the 
Old Bailey. These scandals were abol- 
ished in 1868. Executions now take 
place in the prison yard. 


National Workshops.— The English 
name of ‘‘ Ateliers nationaux,’’ estab- 
lished by the French provisional govern- 
ment in February, 1848, and which were 
abolished in three months, after a san- 
guinary contest, 


Native. In feudal times, one born a 
serf. Αὐτοῦ the Conquest, the natives 
were the serfs of the Normans. Wat 
Tyler said to Richard II. : 

“The firste peticion was that he scholde make 
alle men fre thro Ynglonde and quiete, so that 
there scholde not be eny native man after that 
time.”"—Higden: Polychronicon, viii. 457. 

Nativity (7c) means Christmas Day, 
the anniversary of the birth of Jesus, 

The Cave of the Nativity is under the 
chancel of the ‘“‘church of the Nativity.” 
In the recess, a few feet above the 
ground is a stone slab with a star cut in 
it, to mark the spot where the Saviour 
was born. Near it is a hollow scraped 
out of the rock, said to be the place 
where the infant Jesus was laid. 


To cast a man’s nativity is to construct 
a plan or map out of the position, etc., of 
the twelve houses which belong to him, 
and to explain the scheme. 


Natty. Tidy, methodical, and neat. 
(Italian vetto, French net, Welsh nith.) 


Natty Bumppo, called ‘‘ Leather 
Stocking.”” He appears in five of 
Fenimore Cooper’s novels: as the Deer- 
slayer; the Pathfinder; the Hawk-eye 
(La Longue Carabine), in the Last of the 
Mohicans; Natty Bumppo, in the 
Pioneers; and the Trapper in the 
Prairie, in which he dies, 

Natural (4). A born idiot; one on 
whom education can make no im- 
pression, As nature made him, so he 
remains. 

A natural child. One not born in 
lawful wedlock. The Romans called 
the children of concubines naturales, 


Nature 


children according to nature, and not 
according to law. 
“Cui pater est populus, pater est sibi nullus 
᾿ omnes : 
Cui pater est populus not habet 116 patrem.”’ : 
Ovid. 
Nature. Nude 


or naked, 


Naught (vot ‘‘nought”’). Naught is 
Ne (negative), aught (anything). Saxon 
naht, which is ne ait (not anything), 

“A headless man had a letter [o] to write, 

He who read it (naught) had lost his sight. 

The dumb repeated it [vaught] word for word, 


And deaf was the man who listened and heard 
Dr. Whewell. 


In a state of nature. 


(naught].” 
Naught, meaning bad, 
“The water is naught.”"—2 Kings, ii. 19. 


Naughty Figs (Jeremiah xxiv. 2). 
Worthless, vile (Anglo-Saxon nat, i.e. Ὁ 
negative, aft aught). We still say 
a ‘‘naughty boy,’’ a ‘naughty girl,” 
and a “naughty child.’’ 

“One basket had very good figs, even like the 
figs that are first ripe. ... The other basket had 
very naughty figs, which could not be eaten.” 

Navigation. Father of navigation. 
Don Henrique, Duke of Viseo, the great- 
est man that Portugal ever produced. 
(1394- 1460.) 

Father of British inland navigation. 
Francis Egerton, Duke of Bridgewater 
(1736-1803). 


Navvy. A contraction of navigator. 
One employed to make railways. 


“Canals were thought ofas lines of inland nayi- 
gation, anda tavern built by the side of a canal 
was called a ‘Navigation Inn.’ Hence it hap) ened 
that the men employed in excavating canals were 
called ‘navigators, shortened into navvies.”’"— 
Spencer: Principles of Sociology, vol. i,appendix C, 
p. 834. 

Nay-word. Pass-word. Slender, in 
The Merry Wives of Windsor, says— 

“We have a nay-word how to know each other. 
I come to her in white and cry Mum, she cries 
Budvet, and by that we know one another.”— 
Shakespeare. 

Nayres (1 syl.).. The aristocratic 
class of India. (See PoLEas.) 


Nazarzeans or Nazarenes (3 syl.). 
A sect of Jewish Christians, who believed 
Christ to be the Messiah, that He was 
born of the Holy Ghost, and that He 
possessed a Divine nature; but they 
nevertheless conformed to the Mosaic 
rites and ceremonies. (See below.) 


Nazare’ne (3 syl.). <A native of 
Nazareth; hence our Lord is so called 
(John xviii, 5, 7; Acts xxiv. 9). 


Nazareth. Cun any good thing come 
out of Nazareth? (John i. 46). A 
general insinuation against any family 
or place of ill repute, Can any great 


880 


Nebo 


"ον 


man come from such an insignificant 
village as Nazareth ? 


Nazarite (3 syl.). One separated or 
set apart to the Lord by a vow. These 
Nazarites were to refrain from strong 
drinks, and to suffer their hair to grow. 
king nazar, to separate. Numb, vi. 
1-21. 


Ne plus Ultra (Latin). The perfec- 
tion or most perfect state to which a 
thing can be brought. We have Ne- 
plus-ultra corkscrews, and a multitude 
of other things. 


Ne Sutor, etc. (8.6 CoBBLER.) 


Newra. Any sweetheart or lady-love. 
She is mentioned by Horace, Virgil, and 
Tibullus. 


“To sport with Amaryllis in the shade, 
Or with the tangles of Newra’s hair.” 
Milton: Lycidas, 


Neapolitan. A native of Naples; 
pertaining to Naples. 


Near, meaning mean, is rather a 
curious play on the word close (close- 
fisted). What is ‘‘ close by” is near. 


Near Side and Off Side. Left side 
and right side. ‘‘ Near wheel’? means 
that to the coachman’s left hand; and 
“near horse”’ (in a pair) means that to 
the left hand of the driver. In a four- 
in-hand the two horses on the left side 
of the coachman are the near wheeler 
and the near leader. Those on the right 
hand side of the coachman are ‘* off 
horses,’’ This, which seems an anomaly, 
arose when the driver walked beside his 
team. The teamster always walks with 
his right arm nearest the horse, and 
therefore, in a pair of horses, the horse 
on the left side is nearer than the 
one on his right. 

i Thus, 2 is the near wheeler 

113 and 1 the near leader, 4 
Sie is the off wheeler and 3 

Coachman. the off leader. 


Neat as a Bandbox. A band-hox 
isa slight box for caps, hats, and other 
similar articles, 


Neat as a Pin, or Neat as a New 
Pin. Very prim and tidy. 


Neat as Wax. Certainly the waxen 
cells of bees are the perfection of neat- 
ness and good order. 


Nebo, the god of science and litera- 
ture, is said to have invented cuneiform 
writing. His temple was at Borsippa, 
but his worship was carried wherever 
Babylonian letters penetrated. Thus we 


Nebraska 881 


Necromancy 


had Mount Nebo in Moab, and the city 
of Nebo in Judea. 


Nebraska, U.S. A word of Indian 
origin, meaning the ὁ“ shallow river.”’ 


Nebuchadnezzar. A correspondent 
of Notes and Queries (July 21, 1877) says 
that the compound Russian word Ne- 
boch-ad-ne-tzar means, ‘‘ There is no god 
but the ezar.’”’ Of course this is not the 
meaning of the Babylonian proper name, 
but the coincidence is curious. The 
-ezzar of Nebuchadnezzar means Assyria, 
and appears in such words as Nabon- 
assar, Bel-ch-azzar, _ Nebo-pol-assar, 
Tiglath-Pil-eser, Esar-haden, and so on. 

Nabonassar is Nebo-adan- Assur (Nebo 
prince of Assyria) ; Nebuchadnezzar is 
Nebo-chah-adun-Assar (Nebo, royal 
prince-of Assyria). Nebo was probably 
an Assyrian god, but it was no unusual 
thing for kings to assume the names of 
gods, as Bel-ch-azzar, where Bel = Baal 
(Baal king-of Assyria.) (See Naso.) 


Neb'uchadnezzar. The prophet 
Daniel says that Nebuchadnezzar walked 
in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon 
and said, ‘‘Is not this great Babylon 
that Ihave built . . . by the might of 
my power, and for the honour of my 
majesty?” And ‘‘the same hour. . 
he was driven from men, and did eat 
grass as oxen, and his body was wet 
with the dew of heaven, till his hairs 
were grown like eagles’ feathers, and 
his nails like birds’ claws ”’ (iv. 29-33). 


Necessity. MJuke avirtue of necessity. 
(Shakespeare: Two Gentlemen of Verona, 
dive JL) 


“Quintilian has laudem virtutis necessitati 
damus; St. Jerome (epistle 54 section 6), Fac de 
necessitate viitutem. Inthe Roman de la Rose, line 
11058, we tind ΑἿΣ ne fait de necessite virtu, and 
Boccaccio bas Si come savia fatta della necessita. 

Necessity the tyrant’s plea. (Milton: 
Paradise Lost, book iv. verse 393.) 


Neck. ‘ Oh that the Roman people had 
but one neck, that I might cut it off at a 
blow !”? The words of Calig’ula, the 
Roman emperor. 

To break the neck of an enterprise. To 
begin it successfully, and overcome the 
first difficulties. Well begun is half 
done. The allusion is to killing fowls 
by breaking their necks, 


Neck-verse (Psalm li. 1). ‘ Have 
mercy upon me, O God, according to 
Thy lovingkindness: according unto the 
multitude of Thy tender mercies blot 
out my transgressions.’’ This verse was 
so called because it was the trial-verse 
of those who claimed benefit of clergy ; 


56 


and if they could read it, the ordinary 
of Newgate said, “" Legit ut clericus,”’ 
and the convict saved his neck, being 
only burnt in the hand and set at 
liberty. 
“Ifa clerk had been taken 
For stealing of bacon, 
For burglary, murder, or rape. 
Tf he could but rehearse 
(Well prompt) his neck-verse, 
He never could fail to escape.” 
British Apollo (1710). 
Neck-weed. A slang term for hemp, 
of which the hangman’s rope is made, 


Neck and Crop. Entirely. Tho 
crop is the gorge of a bird. 

Neck and Heels. J bundied hiin out 
neck and heels. There was a certain 
punishment formerly in vogue which 
consisted in bringing the chin and knees 
of the culprit forcibly together, and then 
thrusting the victim into a cage. 


Neck and Neck. Very near to- 
gether in merit ; very close competitors. 
A phrase used in horse races, when 
two or more horses yun each other very 
closely. 


Neck or Nothing. Desperate. A 
racing phrase ; to win by a neck or to be 
nowhere—.¢. not counted at all because 
unworthy of notice. 


Necked. 4 stiff-necked people. Ob- 
stinate and self-willed. In the Psalms 
we read, ‘‘ Speak not with a stiff neck ”’ 
(ixxv. 5); and in Jeremiah xvii. 23, 
‘“* They obeyed not, but made their necks 
stiff ;’’ and Isaiah (xlviii. 4) says, ‘‘ Thy 
neck is an iron sinew.’’ The allusion is 
to a wilful horse, ox, or ass, which will 
not answer to the reins. 


Necklace. A necklace of coral or 
white bryony beads used to be worn 
round the necks of children to aid their 
teething. Necklaces of hyoscyamus or 
henbane-root have been recommended 
for the same purpose. In Italy coral 
beloques are worn as a charm against 
the ‘* evil eye.”’ 

The diamond necklace (1785). 
Dr1aMonpD NECELACE.) 

The fatal necklace. Cadmos received 
on his wedding-day the present of a 
necklace, which proved fatal to every- 
one who possessed it. Some say that 
Vulcan, and others that Euro’pa, gave 
the necklace to Cadmos. Harmonia’s 
necklace (qg.v.) was a similar fatal gift. 
(See Fata GIFTS.) 

Nec’romancy means _ prophesying 
by calling up the dead, as the witch of 
Endor called up Samuel. (Greek, nekros, 
the dead ; manteia, prophecy.) 


(See 


Nectar 882 Nemean Lion 
Nec’tar. Wine conferring immor- White father and cuarterona mother. 
tality, and drunk by the gods. The | Offspring, quintero, quintera. 


Koran tells us ‘‘the righteous shall be 
given to drink pure wine sealed with 
musk.’’ The food of the gods is Am- 
ὀγο δῖα. (Greek nektar.) 

Neddy (a man’s name). A contrac- 
tion and diminutive of Mine Edward— 
Mine Eddy, My N’Eddy. Teddy is the 
French ἔμ, toi, form; and eddy the 
nunation form. (Ed’, Ted, Ned.) 


Neddy. A donkey; a low cart used in 
Dublin; so called because its jolting keeps 
the riders eternally nodding. 

“The ‘Set-down’ was succeeded by the Noddy, 
so called from its oscillating motion backwards 
and forwards.’’—Sketches of Lreland (1847). 


Neddy. A dunce; a euphemism for 


Οὐ ΒΒ. 


Need Makes the old Wife Trot. 
In German, ‘‘ Die noth macht ein alte 
weib traben ;’’ in Italian, ‘‘ Bisogna fa 
trotterl a vecchia ; in French, “ἡ Besoin 
fait trotter la vieille ;”’ the Scotch say, 
** Need gars naked men run.” 


Needs must when the Devil 
Drives. ‘The French say: “ J/ faut 
marcher quand le diable est aux trousses ;”? 
and the Italians say: ‘‘ Bisogna andare, 
quando, il diavolo ἃ vella coda.? Tt I 
must, I must. 

“ He must needs go that the Devil drives.” 

Shakespeare: Alls Well That Buds Well, i. 3. 

Needfire. Fire obtained by friction. 
It has been supposed to defeat sorcery, 
and cure diseases assigned to witchcraft. 
(Danish, gride, to rub.) 


Needful (712). Ready money, cash. 
The one thing needful for this life. 


Weedham. Jo are on the high-road 
to Necdham—to ruin or poverty. The 
pun is on the word need. Needham is 
in Suffolk. (See ΤΑΝ or Nop.) 


Needle. 170 hit the needic. Hit the 
right nail on the head, to make a perfect 
hit. A term in archery, equal to hitting 
the bull’s-eye. 

Eye of a needle. (See EY.) 

Negative Pregnant (4). A denial 
which implies an affirmative, and is so 
interpreted. A law term. 


_ Ne’gro. Fuller saysa negro is ‘‘ God's 
image cut in ebony,.”’ 


Negro Offspring. 

White father and negro mother. 
spring, mulatto, mulatta. 

White father and mulatta mother. 
Offspring, cuarteron, -rona, 


Off- 


White father and quintera mother, 
Offspring, white. 


Negro’ni. A princess, a friend of 
Lucrezia di Bor’gia, Duchess of Ferra’ra. 
She invited to a banquet the nobles who 
had insulted her friend, and killed them 
with poisoned wine. (Donizetti: Lucrezia 
di Borgia, an opera.) 


Ne’gus. So called from Colonel 
Francis Negus, who first concocted it, 
in the time of George I. 


Nehalle'nia. The Flemish deity 
who presided over commerce and navi- 
gation. 

Nehushtan (2 Kings xviii. 4). Bits 
of brass, worthless tragments. When 
Hezekiah broke in pieces the brazen 
serpent, he called the broken pieces. Ne- 
hushtan, 

“Such matters to the agitatorsare Nehushtan.” 
—Nineteenth Century, December, 1892, p. 998. 

Neiges d’Antan (176). A thing of 
the past. Literally, ‘‘ last year’s snows.”’ 

“ Where are the snows of yester-year ?” 
Rossetti. 


“The whole las melted away like the neives 
dwitan.’—Nineteenth Century, June, 1891, p. 8Y5. 


Neken. (Scc NEC.) 
Neksheb. The city of Transoxia‘na. 


Nell’s Point, in Barry Island. Fa- 
mous for a well to which women resort 
on Holy Thursday, and having washed 
their eyes with the water of the well, 
each woman drops into it a pin, 


Nem. Con, Unanimously. <A con- 
traction of the Latin nem'ine contradi- 
cen'te (no one opposing). 


Nem. Diss. Without a dissentient 
voice. (Latin, nem'ine dissent iente.) 


Nem/ean Games (716). One of the 
four great national festivals of Greece, 
celebrated at Nem’ea, in Ar’golis, every 
alternate year, the first and third of each 
Olympiad. The victor’s reward was at 
first a crown of olive-leaves, but subse- 
quently a garland of ivy. Pindar has 
eleven odes in honour of victors at these 
games. 


Nem/ean Lion (Ze). The first of 
the labours of Herculés was to kill the 
Nemean lion (of Ar’golis), which kept 
the people in constant alarm. Its skin 
was so tough that his club made no im- 
pression on the beast, so Hercules caught 
it in his arms and squeezed it to death. 
He ever after wore the skin as a mantle. 


“ Ere Nemea’s boast resigned his shaggy spoils.’ 
Statius, l, 


Nemesis 


Nemesis. Retribution, or rather 
the righteous anger of God. A female 
Greek deity, whose mother was Night. 


Nemo Me Impune Lacessit. No one 
injures me with impunity. The motto 
of the Order of the Thistle. It was first 
used on the coins of James VI. of Scot- 
land (James I. of England). A strange 
motto for Puritans to adopt (Matt. xviii. 
21, 22). 

Neol'ogy. The Rationalistic inter- 
pretation of Scripture. The word is 
Greek, and means new-(theo)-logy. 
Those who accept this system are called 
Neolo’gians, 

Ne'optol’emos or Pyrrhos. Son of 
Achilles ; called Pyrrhos from his yellow 
hair, and Ne'optol’emos because he was a 
new soldier, or one that came late to the 
siege of Troy. According to Virgil, it 
was this young man that slew the aged 
Priam. On his return home he was 
murdered by Orestes, at Delphi. 


Nepen'the (5 syl.) or Nepen'thés, a 
drug to drive away care and superinduce 
love. Polydamna, wife of Tho’nis (or 
Thone, 1 syl.), King of Egypt, gave 
nepenthe to Helen (daughter of Jove and 
Leda). Homer speaks of a magic potion 
called nepenthé, which made persons 
forget their woes. (Odyssey, iv. 228.) 

“ That nepenthes which the wife of Thone 


In Egypt gave the Jove-born Helena.” 
Milton : Comus, 695, 696. 


* The water of Ardenne had the 
opposite effect. 


Neper’s Bones. (See NAPIER.) 


Neph’elo-coccyg’ia. A town in the 
clouds built by the cuckoos. It was 
built to cut off from the gods the incense 
offered by man, so as to compel them to 
come to terms. (dristophanes: The 
Birds.) 

“Without flying to Nephelo-coccygia we can 
mieet with sharpers and bullies.”—Macaulay. ,, 

Nephew (French vevew, Latin nepos). 
Both in Latin and in archaic English the 
word means a grandchild, or descendant. 
Hence, in 1 Tim. v. 4, we read—‘‘ If a 
woman have children or nephews [grand- 
children].’’ Propertius has it, ‘‘ Ie inter 
seros laudabit Roma nepotes [posterity ].’’ 

~ Niece (Latin neptis) also means a 
granddaughter or female descendant. 
(See NEPOTISM.) 


Nep’omuk. St. John Nepomuk, a 
native of Bohemia, was the almoner of 
Wenceslas IY., and refused to reveal to 
the emperor the confession of the em- 
press. After having heroically endured 


883 Nero 


torture, he was taken from the rack and 
cast into the Moldau. Nepomuk is the 
French 7é, born, and Pomuk, the village 
of his birth. A stone image of this 
saint stands on the Carl Briicke over the 
Moldau, in Prague. (1330-1383.) 


Nep’otism. An unjust elevation of 
our own kinsmen to places of wealth and 
trust at our disposal. (Latin, epos, a 
nephew or kinsman.) 


Nep’tune (2 syl.). The sea. In 
Roman mythology, the divine monarch 
of the ocean. (See BEN.) 

A son of Neptune. 
sailor, 


Neptune’s Horse. Hippocampos ; 
it had but two legs, the hinder part of 
the body being that of a fish. (See 
HOorRsE.) 


Neptu'nian or Nep'tunist. One who 
follows the opinion of Werner, in the 
belief that all the great rocks of the 
earth were once held in solution in water, 
and have been deposited as sediment. 
The Vuleanists or Plutonians ascribe 
them to the agency of fire. 


Ne’reids (2 syl.). Sea-nymphs, daugh- 
ter of Nereus (2 syl.), fifty in number. 

Nereids or Neréidés (4 syl.). Sea- 
nymphs, Camoens, in his Lusiad, gives 
the names of three—Doto, Nyse, and 
Neri‘ne ; but he has spiritualised their 
office, and makes them the sea-guardians 
of the virtuous. They went before the 
fleet of Ga’ma, and when the treacherous 
pilot supplied by Zacoc'ia, King of Mo- 
zam’'bique, steered the ship of Vasco da 
Gama towards a sunken rock, these 
guardian nymphs pressed against the 
prow, lifting it from the water and turn- 
ing it round. The pilot, looking to see 
the cause of this strange occurrence, be- 
held the rock which had nearly proved 
the ruin of the whole fleet (bk. 1.) 


Ne’reus (2 syl.) A sea-god, repre- 
sented as a very old man, whose special 
dominion was the ge’an Sea. 

Neri’ne (3 syl.). One of the Nereids. 
(See NYSE.) 

Neris’sa. Portia’s waiting-maid; 
clever, self-confident, and coquettish. 
(Shakespeare : Merchant of Venice.) 


A seaman or 


Ne'ro. Emperorof Rome. Somesay 
he set fire to Rome to see ‘how Troy 
would look when.it was in flames:”’ 
others say he forbade the flames to be 
put out, and went toa high tower, where 
he sang verses to his lute ‘‘ Upon the 
Burning of Old Troy.” 


Nero 


A Nero. Any bloody-minded man, 
relentless tyrant, or evil-doer of extra- 
ordinary savagery. 


Nero of the North. Christian 11. of 
Denmark (1480, 1534-1558, 1559). 


Nero’s Friend. After Nero’s fall, 
when his statues and monuments were 
torn down by order of the Senate, and 
every mark of dishonour was accorded 
to his memory, some unknown hand 
during the night went to his grave and 
strewed it with violets. 


Nesr. An idol of the ancient Arabs. 
Tt was in the form of a vulture, and was 
worshipped by the tribe of Hemyer. 


Nesrem. A statue some fifty cubits 
high, in the form of an old woman. It 
was hollow within for the sake of giving 
secret oracles. (Arabian mythology.) 


' Nessus. Shirt of Nessus. A source 
of misfortune from which there is no es- 
cape;.a fatal present; anything that 
wounds the susceptibilities. Thus Renan 
has ‘the Nessus-shirt of ridicule,” 
Herculés ordered Nessus (the centaur) 
to carry his wife Dejani'ra across a river. 
The centaur ill-treated the woman, and 
Hercules shot him with a poisoned arrow. 
Nessus, in revenge, gave Dejani’ra his 
tunic, saying to whomsoever she gave it 
would love her exclusively. Dejani'ra 
gave it to her husband, who was de- 
voured by poison as soon as he put it on; 
but, after enduring agony, the hero threw 
himself on a funeral pile, and was con- 
sumed. (Sce Harmonta’s ROBE.) 
“ While to my limbs th’ envenomed mantle clings, 
Drenched in the centaur’s -black, malignant 
Ses, : Triumphs of the Gout (Lucian). 


Nest. To feather one’s nest. (See 


FEATHER.) 


Nest-egg (4). Some money laid by. 
The allusion is to the custom of placing 
an egg in a hen’s nest to induce her to 
lay her eggsthere. Ifa person has saved 
a little money, it serves as an induce- 
ment to him to increase his store. 


Nestor. King of Pylos, in Greece; 
the oldest and most experienced of the 
chieftains who went to the siege of 
Troy. A ‘‘ Nestor’? means the oldest 
and wisest man of a class or company. 
(Homer: Iliad.) 

Nestor of the chemical revolution, A 
term applied by Lavoisier to Dr. Black. 
(1728-1799.) 

Nestor of Europe. 
Belgium (1790, 1831-1865) 


Leopold, King of 


884 New Christians 


Nesto'rians. Followers of Nesto’- 
rius, Patriarch of Constantinople in the 
fifth century. He maintained that Christ 
had two distinct natures, and that Mary 
was the mother of His human nature, 
which was the mere shell or husk of the 
divine, 

Neth'inim. The hewers of wood 
and drawers of water for the house of 
God, an office which the Gibeonites were 
condemned to by Joshua (Joshua ix, 
27). The word means given to God. 


Nettle. Camden says the Romans 
brought over the seed of this plant, that 
they might have nettles to chafe their 
limbs with when they encountered the 
cold of Britain. 


Nettles. Jt is ill work plucking 
nettles with bare hands, or belling the 
cat. It is ill work to interefere in 
matters which cannot but prove dis- 
agreeable or even worse. In French, 
“A ttacher le grelot.”’ 


Nettoyer (French). ‘‘ Nettoyer une 
personne, c’est a dive luy gagner tout son 
argent.” (Oudin : Curiositez Frangoises.) 

Our English phrase, ‘‘I cleaned him 
out,’ is precisely tantamount to it. 


Never. There are numerous locutions 
to express this idea ; as— 

At the coming of the Coqueligrues (Rabelitis : 
Pantagruel). 

At the Latter Lammas. (See LAMMAS.) 

On the Greek Calends (q.v.). 

In the reign of Queen Dick. (See Dick.) 

On St. Tib’s Eve. (See ΤΊ 5 EVE.) 

In a month of five Sundays. | 

(In) la semaine des trois jeudis. 

When two Fridays come together. 

When three Sundays come together. 

When Dover and Calais meet. (See DovEn.) 

When Dudman and Ramehead meet. (δὲς Dub- 
MAN.) 

When the world grows honest. 

When the Yellow River runs clear. 

Never Say Die. Never despair; 


never give up. 


Nevers. Il Conte di Nevers, the 
husband of Valentina. Being asked by 
the Governor of the Louvre to join in 
the massacre of the Protestants, he re- 
plied that his family contained a long 
list of warriors, but not one assassin. 
He was one of the Catholics who fell in 
the dreadful slaughter. (MWeyerbcer : 
Gh Ugonotti, an opera.) 


New Brooms sweep Clean. New 
servants work hard; new masters keep 
a sharp look out. (In French, ‘‘ 7 west 
rien tel que balai newf.’’) 


New Christians. Certain Jews of 
Portugal, who yielded to compulsion 
and suffered themselves to be baptised, 


New Jerusaiem 


885 Newgate 


but in secret observed the Mosaic cere- 
monies. (Fifteenth century.) 


New Jerusalem. The paradise of 
Christians, in allusion to Rey, xxi, 


New Man. The regenerated man. 
In Scripture phrase the unregenerated 
state is called the old man (q7.7.). 


New Style. The reformed or Gre- 
gorian calendar, adopted in England in 
September, 1752. 

New Testament. The oldest MSS. 
extant are :—(1) The Codex Sinait/icus 
(SN), published at the expense of Alex- 
ander II. of Russia since the Crimean 
war. This codex contains nearly the 
whole of the Old and New Testaments, 
and was discovered in the convent of St. 
Catherine on Mount Sinai, by Constan- 
tius Tischendorf. It is ascribed to the 
fourth century. (2) The Codex Vatica’- 
nus (B), inthe Vatican Library. Written 
on vellum in Egypt about the fourth 
century. (3) The Codex Alexandri‘nus 
(A), belonging to the fifth century. It 
was presented to Charles I. in 1628 by 
Cyrillus Lucaris, Patriarch of Alexan- 
dria, and is preserved in the British 
Museum. It consists of four folio 
volumes on parchment, and contains 
the Old and New Testaments (except 
the first twenty-four chapters of St. 
Matthew) and the Epistle of Clement 
to the Corinthians. 


New World. America; the Eastern 
Hemisphere is called the Old World. 


New Year’s Day. January Ist. 
The ancient Romans began their year 
in March; hence such words as Septem- 
ber, October, November, December, 
meaning the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th month, 
had a rational meaning. Since the 
introduction of the Christian era, Christ- 
mas Day, Lady Day, Easter Day, and 
March Ist have in turns been con- 
sidered as New Year’s Day; but since 
the reform of the calendar in the six- 
teenth century, January Ist has been 
accepted as New Year’s Day, because it 
was the eighth day after the Nativity, 


when Jesus was circumcised (Luke ἢν 


21). (See NEw STYLz.) 

The civil and legal year began 
March 25th till after the alteration of 
the style, in 1752, when it was fixed, like 
the historic year, to January Ist. In 
Scotland the legal year was changed to 
January Ist as far back as 1600; the 
proclamation was made Novy. 27, 1599. 


New Year’s Gifts. The Greeks 
transmitted the custom to the Romans, 


and the Romans to the early Britons. 
The Roman presents were called streve, 
whence the French term étvenne (a New 
Year's gift). Our forefathers used to 
bribe the magistrates with gifts on New 
Year’s Day—a custom abolished by law 
in 1290, but even down to the reign of 
James II. the monarchs received their 
tokens. 

N.B. Nonius Marcellus says that 
Tatius, King of the Sabines, was pre- 
seuted with some branches of trees cut 
from the forest sacred to the goddess 
Strenia (strength), on New Year’s Day, 
and from this happy omen established 
the custom. 


N 
News. The letters zy used to be 


prefixed to newspapers to show that 
they obtained information from the 
four quarters of the world, and the sup- 
position that our word news is thence 
derived is at least ingenious: but the 
old-fashioned wey of spelling the word, 
newes, is fatal to the conceit. The 
French nouvelles seems to be the real 


source. (See NOTARICA.) 
“News is conveyed by letter, word. or mouth, 
And comes to us from North, East, West. and 
South.” Witt's Recreations. 


Neweastle (Northumberland) was 
once called Moncaster, from the monks 
who settled there in Anglo-Saxon times ; 
it was called Newcastle from the castle 
built there by Robert, son of the Con- 
queror, in 1080, to defend the neigh- 
bourhood from the Scots. 

Newcastle (Staffordshire) is so called 
from the new castle built to supply the 
place of an older one which stood at 
Chesterton-under-Line, about two miles 
distant. 

Carry coals to Newcastle. A work of 
supererogation, Newcastle being the 
great seat of coals. The Latins have 
“ει Aquam mari infundére”’ (‘To pour 
water into the sea’’); ‘‘ Si’dera colo 
addéve”’ (“To add stars to the sky’) ; 
“© Nocttias Athe'nas”’ (‘To carry owls 
to Athens,’’ which abounds in them). 


Newcastle Programme. (Sve Pro- 
PLE’S CHARTER.) 


Newcome ((o/one/). A character in 
Thackeray’s novel called The Newcomes. 


Newcomes. Strangers newly ar- 
rived. 
Newgate. Before this was set up, 


London had but three gates: Aldgate, 

Aldersgate, and Ludgate. The new one 

was added in the reign of Henry I. 
Newgate, Nash, in his Pierce Penilesse, 


Newgate Fashion 


886 


Nibelungen-Lied 


says that Newgate is ‘‘a common name 
for all prisons, as iomo is a common 
name for a man or woman.”’ 


Newgate Fashion. Two by two. 
Prisoners used to be conveyed to New- 
gate coupled together in twos. 

τ Must we all march ὃ 
Yes, two and two, Newgate fashion.” ὁ ὃ 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV ,, iii. 3. 

Newgate Fringe. The hair worn 
under the chin, or between the chin and 
the neck. Socalled because it occupies 
the position of the rope when men are 
about to be hanged. 


Newgate Knocker (4). A lock of 
hair twisted into a curl, usually worn by 
costermongers and other persons of simi- 
lar stations in life. So called because it 
resembles a knocker, and the wearers of 
it are too often inmates of Newgate. 
Newgate as a prison is abolished, but 
many phrases referring to the prison 
still remain. 


Newland. An Abraham Newland. 
A bank-note, so called from Abraham 
Newland, one of the governors of the 
Bank of England in the early part of 
the nineteenth century, to whom the 
notes were made payable. 

“T've often heard say 
Sham Abr’am you may, 


But must not sham Abraham Newland.” 
The Euglet. 


“Trees are notes issued from the bank of Nature, 
and as current as those payable to Abraham New- 
land.’—G. Colman : The Poor Gentleman, i. 2. 

Newton (iv Jsaac) discovered the 
prismatic colours of light. (1642-1727.) 
“ Nature and Nature’s laws lay hid in night, 

_ God said, ‘Let Newton be, and all was light.” 
Pope. 

The Newton of Harmony. Sean Philippe 
Rameau was so called from his work en- 
titled a Dissertation on the Principles of 
Harmony. (1683-1764.) 


Newton'ian Philosophy. The as- 
tronomical system at present received, 
together with that of universal gravita- 
tion. So called after Sir Isaac Newton, 
who established the former and dis- 
covered the latter. (See APPLE.) 


Next Door to. . . . Very nearly ; as 
“next door to a fool.”’ 


Next to Nothing. A very little. As, 
“Tt will cost next to nothing,’’ ‘‘ He 
eats next to nothing.”’ 


Ni/belung. A mythical king of Nor- 
way, whose subjects are called Nibelun- 
gers and territory the Nibelungenland. 
There were two contemporary kings in 
this realm, against whom Siegfried, 


Prince of the Netherlands, fought. He 
slew the twelve giants who formed their 
paladins with 700 of their chiefs, and 
made their country tributary (Lay iii.). 
The word is from nebel (darkness), and 
means the children of mist or darkness. 
(See NIBELUNGEN- LIED.) 


Nibelungen Hoard. A mythical 
mass of gold and precious stones, which 
Siegfried obtained from the Nibelungs, 
and gave to his wife Kriemhild as her 
marriage portion. It was guarded by 
Albric the dwarf. After the murder of 
Siegfried, his widow removed the hoard 
to Worms; here Hagan seized it, and 
buried it secretly beneath ‘‘ the Rhine at 
Lochham,”’ intending at a future time to 
enjoy it, ‘‘ but that was ne’er to be.” 
Kriemhild married Etzel with the view 
of avenging her wrongs. In time Giin- 
ther, with Hagan and a host of Burgun- 
dians, went to visit King Etzel, and 
Kriemhild stirred up a great broil, at the 
end of which a most terrible slaughter 
ensued. (See KRIEMHILD.) 

“-Twas much as twelve huge waggons in four 
whole nights and days 

Could carry from the mountain down to the 

salt sea bay ; 

Though toand fro each waggon thrice journeyed 

every day. 


“Tt was made up of nothing but precious stones 

wos gold he world bought from it,and down 

the value told, 
Not a mark the less would there be left than 
erst there was I ween.” 
Nibelungen-Lied, xix. 

Nibelungen-Lied. A famous Ger- 
man epic of the thirteenth century, pro- 
bably a compilation of different lays, 
It is divided into two parts, one ending 
with the death of Siegfried, and the 
other with the death of Kriemhild, his 
widow. The first part contains the 
marriage of Giinther, King of Burgundy, 
with Queen Brunhild; the marriage of 
Siegfried with Kriemhild, his death by 
Hagan, the removal of the ‘‘ Nibelungen 
hoard”? to Burgundy, and its seizure by 
Hagan, who buried it somewhere under 
the Rhine. This part contains nineteen 
lays, divided into 1,188 four-line stanzas. 
The second part contains the marriage of 
the widow Kriemhild with King Etzel, 
the visit of the Burgundians to the court 
of the Hunnish king, and the death of 
all the principal characters, including 
Hagan and Kriemhild. This part, some- 
times called The Nibelungen-Not, from 
the last three words, contains twenty 
lays, divided into 1,271 four-line stanzas, 
The two parts contain thirty-nine lays, 
2,459 stanzas, or 9,836 lines. The tale is 
based on a legend in the Volsunga Saga. 


Nibelungen-N6ét 


887 


Nick 


Nibelungen-N6t. The second part 
of the famous German epic called the 
Nibelungen-Lied (q.v.). ' 


Nibelungers. Whoever possessed 
the “ Nibelungen hoard” (¢.v.). Thus at 
one time certain people of Norway were 
so called, but when Siegfried possessed 
himself of the hoard he was called King 
of the Nibelungers ; and at the death of 
Siegfried, when the hoard was removed 
to/Burgundy, the Burgundians were so 
called, (See NIBELUNG.) 

*. In all these Teutonic names ie = e, and εἰ τε ἡ. 


Nic Frog. (Sce FRoc.) 


Nice. The Council of Nice. The first 
cecumencial council of the Christian 
Church, held under Constantine the 
Great at Nice, or Nicwea, in Asia Minor, 
to condemn the Arian heresy (325). The 
seventh cecumenical council was also 
held at Nice (787). 


Nice as Ninepence. A corruption 
of ‘* Nice as nine-pins.’? In the game 
of nine-pins, the ‘‘ men”’ are set in three 
rows with the utmost exactitude or 
nicety. Nine-pence is an Irish shilling 
of 1561. (Seé NINEPENCE.) 


Nice’an Barks or Nyccan Barks, 
Elgar Poe, in his lyric Zo Helen, says— 
“ Helen, thy beauty is tome 
Like those Nicean barks of yore, 
That gently o'er a perfumed sea 
The weary, way-worn wanderer bore 
To bis own native shore.” 

The way-worn wanderer was Dionyso3 
or Bacchus, after his renowned con- 
quests. His native shore was the 
Westerr Horn, called the Amalthéan 
Horn. And the Nicean barks were vessels 
sent from the island Nysa, to which in 
infancy Dionysos was conveyed to screen 
him froxa Rhea. The perfumed sea was 
the sea surrounding Nysa, a paradisal 
is!and, 


Nicene Creed. (Sze Nice, Councin 
OF.) 


Niche. 4 niche in the Temple of 
Fuse. The Temple of Fame was the 
Panthe’on, converted (1791) into a re- 
ceptacle for illustrious Frenchmen. A 
niche in the temple is a place for a 
monument recording your name and 
deeds. 

Nicholas (S/.). The patron saint of 
boys, as St. Catherine is of girls, In 
Germany, a person assembles the chil- 
dren of a family or school on the 6th 
December (the eve of St. Nicholas), and 
distributes gilt nuts and sweetmeats ; 


but if any naughty child is present, he | 


receives the redoubtable punishment of 
the Aluubauf. The same as Santa Claus 
and the Dutch Aviss Kringle (q.v.). 
(See Santa Kuavs.) 

St. Nicholas. Patron saint of parish 
clerks. This is because he was the 
patron of scholars, who used to be called 
clerks, 

St, Nicholas. Patron saint of sailors, 
because he allayed a storm on a voyage 


to the Holy Land. 

St. Nicholas. The patron saint of 
Russia. 

St. Nicholas. The patron saint of 
Aberdeen. 


St. Nicholas, in Christian art, is repre- 
sented in episcopal robes, and has either 
three purses or golden balls, or three 
children, as his distinctive symbols. The 
three purses are in allusion to the three 
purses given by him to three sisters t» 
enable them to marry. The three chil- 
dren allude to the legend that an Asiatic 
gentleman sent his three boys to school 
at Athens, but told them to call on St. 
Nicholas for his benediction; they 
stopped at Myra for the night, and the 
innkeeper, to secure their baggage, mur- 
dered them in bed, and put their mangled 
bodies into a pickling-tub with some 
pork, intending to sell the whole as 
such. St. Nicholas had a vision of the 
whole affair, and went to the inn, when 
the man confessed the crime, and St. 
Nicholas raised the murdered boys to 
life again. (See Hone’s Everyday Book, 
vol. i. col. 1556; Maitre Wace, Metrical 
Life of St. Nicholas.) 

Clerks οὐ Knights of St. Nicholas. 
Thieves; so called because St. Nicholas 
was their patron saint; not that he aided 
them in their wrong-doing, but because 
on one occasion he induced some thieves 
to restore their plunder. Probably St. 
Nicholas is simply a pun for Nick, and 
thieves may be called the devil’s clerks 
or knights with much propriety. 

“T think yonder come prancing down the hills 
from Kingston acouple of St. Nicholas’s clerks.” 
—Rowley: Match at Midnight (1633). 

Nick, in Scandinavian mythology, is 
a water-wraith or kelpie. There are 
nicks in sea, lake, river, and waterfall. 
Both Catholic and Protestant clergy 
have laboured to stir up an aversion to 
these beings. They are sometimes re- 
presented as half-child, half-horse, the 
hoofs being reversed, and sometimes as 
old men sitting on rocks wringing the 
water from their hair. This kelpie must 
not be confounded with the nix (q.v.). 

Old Nick is the Scandinavian wraith 
under the form and fashion of an old 


Nicka-Nan Night 883 


Nicotine 


man. Butler says the word is derived 
from Nicholas Machiavel, but this can 
be only a poetical satire, as the term 
existed many years before the birth of 
that Florentine. 
“ Nick Machiayel had ne'er a trick 
(Though he gives name to our old Nick) 


But was below the least of these” 
Hudibras, iii. 1. 


Old Nick. Grimm says the word Nick 
is Neken or Nikken, the evil spirit of the 
North. In Scandinavia there is scarcely 
a river without its Nikr or wraith. (Sve 
Nickar and Nicor. Anglo-Saxon cor, 
a monster. ) 

He nicked it. Won, hit, accomplished 
it. A nick is a winning throw of dice. 
Hence Florio (p. 280) says: “Τὸ tye or 
nicke a caste of dice,”’ 

To nick the nick. To hit the exact 
moment. Tallies used to be called 
© nicksticks.’’ Hence, to make a record 
of anything is ‘*to nick it down,” as 
publicans nick a score on a tally. 

In the nick of time. Just at the right 
moment. ‘The allusion is to tallies 
marked with nicks or notches. Shake- 
speare has, ‘‘ "Lis now the prick of noon ἢ 
(Romeo and Juliet, ii. 4), in allusion to 
the custom of pricking tallies with a 
pin, as they do at Cambridge University 
still. Ifa man enters chapel just before 
the doors close, he would be just in time 
to get nicked or pricked, and would be 
at the nick or prick of time. 


Nicka-Nan Night. The night pre- 
ceding Shrove Tuesday is so called in 
Cornwall, because boys play tricks and 
practical jokes on that night. 


Nickar or [Hnichar. The name as- 
sumed by Odin when he impersonates 
the destroying principle. (Grimm : 
Deutsche Mythologie.) 


Nickel Silver. A mixed metal of 
copper, zine, and nickel, containing more 
nickel than what is called " German 
silver.’”? From its hardness it is well 
adapted for electroplating. (German, 
juckel, which also means a strumpet.) 


Nicker. One who nicks or hits a 
mark exactly. Certain night-larkers, 
whose game was to break windows with 
halfpence, assumed this name in the 
early part of the eighteenth century. 

“ His scattered pence the flying Nicker flings, 

And with the copper shower the casement 

rings.” Gay: Trivia, iii. 

Nicik’leby (J/is.). An endless talker, 
always introducing something quite 
foreign to the matter in hand, and 
pluming herself on her penetration. 
(Dickens : Nicholas Nickleby.) 


Nickname. ‘‘ An eke name,”’ written 
A neke name, An additional name, an 
ag-nomen. The ‘‘eke”’ of a beehive 
is the piece added te the bottom to en- 
large the hive. (See Now-A-Days.) 


Nicknames. National Nicknames : 


For an American of the United States, 
‘* Brother Jonathan ”’ (7..). 

For a Dutchman, “ Nie Frog”’ (q.v.), 
and ‘‘ Mynheer Closh ”’ (¢.v.). 

For an Lvuglishman, ‘John Bull,’’ 
(See BULL.) 

For a Ivenchman, ‘‘Crapaud”’ (7.v.), 
Johnny or Jean, Robert Macaire. 

For French Canadians, “Jean Bap- 
tiste.”’ 

For French reformers, ‘ Brissotins.”” 

For French peasantry, ** Jacques Bon- 
homme.”’ 

For a Glaswegian, *‘ Glasgow Keelie.”” 

For a German, ‘*Cousin Michael’? 
or ‘‘ Michel ’’ (q.7.). 

Foran Jrishman, ‘* Paddy.” 

For a Liverpudlian, ‘* Dicky Sam.”’ 

For a Londoner, ‘‘ A Cockney”? (q.v.). 

For a Russian, ‘‘ A bear.”’ 

For a Scot, ‘‘Sawney”’ (q.v.). 

For a Swiss, “ Colin Tampon”? (q.v.). 

For a Turk, ‘‘ Infidel.”’ 


Nick/nev’en. A gigantic malignant 
hag of Scotch superstition. Dunbar has 
well described this spirit in his /Vyting 
of Dunbar and Kennedy. 


Nicodemused into Nothing, that 
is, the prospects of one’s life ruined by 
a silly name; according to the proverb, 
“Give a dog a bad name and hang 
him.”’? It is from Sterne’s Zvistram 
Shandy (vol. i. 19), on the evil in- 
fluence of a silly name on the mind of 
the bearer of it. 


“How many Cresars and Pompeys... by mere 
inspiration of the names have been rendered 
worthy of them ; and how many ... might haye 
done... Well in the world... had they not 
been Nicodemused into nothing.” 

(This is, to call a man Nicodemus would be 
enough to sink a nayy.) 


Nicola/itans. The followers of Ni- 
colaius (second century). They were 
Gnosties in doctrine and Epicureans in 
practice. 


Nic’olas. (Sce NicHOLAS.) 


Nicor (4). A sea-devil, in Scandi- 
navian mythology, who eats sailors. 

“My brother saw a nicor in the Northern sea. 
Tt was three fathoms long, with the body of a 
bison-bull, and the head of a cat, the heard of a 
man, and tusks an ell long, lying down on its 
breast. It was watching for the fishermen.’ — 
Kingsley : Hypatia, chap. xil. 


Nic’otine (3 syl.) is so named from 
Jean Nicot, Lord of Villemain, who 


Nidhogg 


889 


Nimble 


eee ——— ae 


purchased some tobacco at Lisbon in 
1560, introduced it into France, and had 
the honour of fixing his name on the 
plant. Our word tobacco 18 from 
the Indian tabaco (the tube used by the 
Indians for inhaling the smoke). 


Nidhogg. The monster serpent, hid 
in the pit Hvergelmer, which tor ever 
enaws at the roots of the mundane ash- 
tree Ygedrasil’. (Scandinavian myth- 
ology.) 


Niece. (See NEPHEW.) 


Niflheim (2 syl., mist-home). The 
region of endless cold and everlasting 
night, ruled over by Hela. It consists 
of nine worlds, to which are consigned 
those who die of disease or old age. 
This region existed ‘‘from the begin- 
ning ’’ in the North, and in the middle 
thereof was the well Hvergelmeer, from 
which flowed twelve rivers. (Old Norse, 
nifl, mist; and heim, home.) In the 
South was the world called Muspelheim 
(q.v.). (Seandinavian mythology.) (See 
HVERGELMER MANHEIM.) 


Night. The celebrated statue of 
Night, in Florence, is the chef @ euvre of 
Michael Angelo. In the gallery of the 
Luxembourg, Paris, is the famous pic- 
ture of Night by Rubens; and at Ver- 
sailles is the painting of Mignard. 


Nightcap (4). 
before going to bed. 
mote sleep. 


_ “The nightcap is generally a little whisky left 
in the decanter. To do it honour it is taken neat. 


A glass of grog 
Supposed to pro- 


Then all get up and wish ‘ good-night.’ ’--Maxc 
O' Rell: Friend MacDonald, iii. 
Nightingale. Tereus, King of 


Thrace, fetched Philome’la to visit his 
wife; but when he reached the ‘ soli- 
tudgs of Heleas’’ he dishonoured her, 
and cut out her tongue that she might 
not reveal his conduct, Tereus told his 
wife that Philomela was dead, but 
Philomela made her story known by 
weaving it into a peplus, which she sent 
to her sister, the wite of Tereus, whose 
name was Procné. Procné, out of re- 
venge, cut up her own son and served it 
to l'ereus ; but as soon as the king dis- 
covered it he pursued his wife, who fled 
to Philomela, her sister. To put an end 
to the sad tale, the gods changed all 
three into birds ; Tereus (2 syl.) became 
the hawk, his wife the swallow, and 
Philomela the nightingale. 

Arcadian nightingales. 

Cumbridgeshire nightingales. Edible 
frogs. Liégeand Dutch “ nightingales”’ 
are edible, 


Asses. 


Nightmare (4). A sensation in 
sleep as if something heavy were sitting 
on our breast. (Anglo-Saxon, mara, 
an incubus.) This sensation is called 
in French cauchemar. — Anciently it 
was not unfrequently called the night- 
hag, or the viding of the witch. Fu’'seli 
used to eat raw beef and pork chops for 
supper to produce nightmare, that he 
might draw his horrible creations. (See 
Mare’s NEST.) 


“T do believe that the witch we call Mara has 
been dealing with you.’—Sir Walter Scott: The 
Betrothed, chap. Xv. 

Nightmare of Europe, Napoleon Bona- 
parte (1769, 1804-1814, 1821). 


Nihilists. A radical society of the 
maddest proclivities, which started into 
existence in 1848, under the leadership 
of Herzen and Bakunin. Their pro- 
fessed object was to annihilate all laws 
of social community, and reform the 
world de novo. The following is their 
code :— 


(1) Annibilate the idea of a God, or there can be 
no freedom. 

(2) Annihilate the idea of right, which is only 
might. 

(3) Annibilate civil:sation, property, marriage, 
morality, and justice. _ 

(4) Let your own happiness be your only law. 


Nihilo. Lx nihilo nihil fit. From 
nothing comes nothing—?.c. every effect 
must have a cause. It was the dictum 
of Xenophanés, founder of the Eleatic 
school (sixth century), to prove the 
eternity of matter. We now apply the 
phrase as equivalent to ‘‘ You cannot 
get blood from a stone.’”? You cannot 
expect clever work from one who has no 
brains. 

When all is said, “ deity” isan exception. 

Nil Admira’ri. To be stolidly in- 
different. Neither to wonder at any- 
thing, nor yet to admire anything. 


Nil Desperandum. Never say die ; 


never give up in despair. 


Nile. The Egyptians used to say that 
the swelling of the Nile was caused by 
the tears of Isis. The feast of Isis was 
celebrated at the anniversary of the death 
of Osi'ris, when Isis was supposed to 
mourn for her husband. 

The hero cf the Nile. 
Nelson (1758-1805). 

Nilica or Sephal'ica. A plant in the 
blossoms of which the bees sleep. 


Nimble as a Cat on a hot Bake- 
stone. In a great hurry to get away. 
The bake-stone in the north is a large 
stone on which bread and oat-cakes are 
baked. 


Horatio, Lord 


Nimbie 


Nimble as Ninepence. 
PENCE.) 


Nimbus characterises authority and 
power, not sanctity. The colour indi- 
cates the character of the person so 
invested :—The nimbus of the Trinity is 
gold ; of angels, apostles, and the Virgin 
Mary, either ved or white ; of ordinary 
saints, violet; of Judas, black ; of Satan, 
some very dark colour, The form is 
generally a circle or half-circle, but that 
of Deity is often triangular. 


(See NINE- 


The nimbus was used by heathen nations long 
before painters introduced it into sacred pictures 
of saints, the Trinity, and the Virgin Mary. Pros- 
erpine was represented with a nimbus; the 
Roman emperors were also decorated in the same 
manner, because they were divi. 

Nim‘ini Pim‘ini. Affected simpli- 
city. Lady Emily, in the Heiress, tells 
Miss Alscrip the way to acquire the 
paphian Mimp is to stand before a glass 
and keep pronouncing nimini pimini. 
‘““The lips cannot fail to take the right 
plie.”’ (General Burgoyne, ii. 2.) 

This conceit has been borrowed by 
Charles Dickens in his Little Dorrit, 
where Mrs. General tells Amy Dorrit— 

“ Papa gives a pretty form to the lips. Papa, 
potatoes, poultry, prunes, and prism. You will 
find it serviceable if you say to yourself on enter- 
ing a room, Pupa, potatoes, poultry, prunes, and 
prism, prunes and prism.” 

Nimrod. ‘A mighty hunter before 
the Lord”? (Gen, x. 9), which the Tar- 
gum says means a ‘sinful hunting of 
the sons of men.’’ Pope says of him, 
he was “ἃ mighty hunter, and his prey 
was man;’’ so also Milton interprets 
the phrase. (Paradise Lost, xii. 24, etc.) 

The legend is that the tomb of Nimrod still 
exists in Damascus,and that no dew ever “falls” 
upon it, even though all its surroundings are 
saturated with it. : 

Nimrod, Any tyrant or devastating 
warrior, 

Nimrod, in the Quarterly Review, is 
the xom-de-plume of Charles James Ap- 
perley, of Denbighshire, who was pas- 
sionately fond of hunting. Mr. Pittman, 
the proprietor, kept for him a stud of 
hunters. His best productions are 7he 
Chase, the Turf, and the Road. (\T77- 
1849.) 

Nincompoop. A poor thing of a 
man. Said to be a corruption of the 
Latin 20 compos [mentis], but of this 
there is no evidence. 


_Nine. Nine, five, and three are mys- 
tical numbers—the diapa’son, diapente, 
and diatri‘on of the Greeks. Nine con- 
sists of a trinity of trinities. According 
to the Pythagorean numbers, man is 
a full chord, or eight notes, and deity 


890 


᾿ς Nine 


comes next. Three, being the trinity, 
represents a perfect wnity ; twice three 
is the perfect dual; and thrice three is 
the perfect plural. This explains the 
use of nine as a mystical number, and 
also as an exhaustive plural, and conse- 
quently no definite number, but a simple 
representative of plural perfection. (See 
DIAPASON. ) 

(1) Nine indicating perfection or com- 
pletion :— 

Deucalion’s ark, made by the advice of 
Prome’theus, was tossed about for nine 
days, when it stranded on the top of 
Mount Parnassus. 

Rigged to the nines or Dressed up to 
the nines. To perfection from head to 
foot. 

There ave nine earths. Welais goddess 
of the ninth. Milton speaks of ‘*nine- 
enfolded spheres.” Cap 

There are nine worlds in Niftheim. 

There are nine heavens. (See HEAVENS.) 

Gods, Macaulay makes Porséna swear 
by the nine gods. (Sze NINE Gops,) 

There are nine orders of angels. 
ANGELS.) 

There are the nine korrigan or fays of 
Armorica. 

There were nine muses. 

There were nine Gallicene or virgin 
priestesses of the ancient Gallic oracle. 
The serpents or Nagas of Southern 
Indian worship are nine in number. 

There are nine worthies (q.v.); and 
nine worthies of London. (SeeWOrrTHIES.) 

There were nine rivers of hell, accord- 
ing to classic mythology. Milton says 
the gates of hell are ‘‘ thrice three-fold ; 
three folds are brass, three iron, three 
of adamantine rock. They had nine 
folds, nine plates, and nine linings.”’ 
(Paradise Lost, ii. 645.) 

Fallen angels, Milton says, when they 
were cast out of heaven, ‘‘ Nine days 
they fell.”’ (Paradise Lost, vi. 871.) 

Vulean, when kicked out of heaven, 
was nine days falling, and then lighted 
on the island Lemnos. 

Nice asninepence. (See Nice.) 

(2) Examples of the use of nine as an 
exhaustive plural :— 

Nine tailors make a man does not 
mean the number nine in the ordinary 
acceptation, but simply the plural of 
tailor without relation to number. Asa 
tailor is not so robust and powerful as 
the ordinary run of men, it requires 
more than one to match a man. (ce 
TAILORS.) 

A nine days’ wonder is a wonder that 
lasts more than a day; here nine equals 
ἐς several.” 


( Sce 


- Nine 891 


A cat has nine lives—i.e. a cat is popu- 
larly supposed to be more tenacious of life 
than animals in general. 

Possession is nine points of the law—i.e. 
several points, or every advantage a 
person can have short of right. 

There are nine crowns recognised in 
heraldry. (See Crowns.) 

A fée asked a Norman peasant to 
change babes with her, but the peasant 
replied, ‘‘No, not if your child were 


nine times fairer than my own.”’ (Fairy 
Mythology, p. 473.) 
(3) Nine as a mystic number, Exam- 


ples of its superstitious use :— 
The Abracadabra was worn nine days, 
and then flung into a river. 


Cadency. There are nine marks of 
cadency. 
Cat, The whip for punishing evil- 


doers was a cat-o’-nine-tails, from the 
superstitious notion that a flogging by 
a ‘‘trinity of trinities’? would be both 
more sacred and more efficacious. 

Diamonds, (See ‘* Diamond Jousts,”’ 
under the word DIAMOND.) 

Fairies. In order to see the fairies, a 
person is directed to put ‘‘ nine grains of 
wheat on a four-leaved clover.”’ 

Hel has dominion over nine worlds. 

Hydra. The hydra had nine heads. 
(See HypRA.) 

Leases used to be granted for 999 
years, that is three times three-thiec- 
three. Ἐνθῃ now they run for ninety- 
nine years, the dual of a trinity of 
trinities. Some leases run to 9,999 years. 

At the Lemuria, held by the Romans 
on the 9th, 11th, and 13th of May, per- 
sons haunted threw black beans over 
their heads, pronouncing nine times the 
words: ““ Avaunt, ye spectres from this 
house !’’ and the exorcism was complete. 
(See Ovid's Fasti.) 

Magpies, Tosee nine magpies is most 
unlucky, (See Macprn.) 

Odinv’s ving dropped eight other rings 
every ninth night. 

Ordeals, In the ordeal by fire, nine 
hot ploughshares were laid lengthwise at 
unequal distances. 

Peas. If a servant finds nine green 
peas in a peascod, she lays it on the 
lintel of the kitchen door, and the first 
man that enters in is to be her cavalier. 

Seal. The people of Feroes say that 
the seal casts off its skin every ninth 
month, and assumes a human form to 
sport about the land. (Thiele, iii. 51.) 

Styx encompassed the infernal regions 
in nine circles. 

Toast.. We drink a Three-times-three 
to those most highly honoured. 


Nine Days’ Wonder 


Witches. The weird sisters in Mac- 
beth sang, as they danced round the 
cauldron, ‘‘ Thrice to thine, and thrice 
to mine, and thrice again to make up 
nine;’’ and then declared ‘‘ the charm 
wound up.”’ 

Wresting thread. Nine knots are 
made on black wool as a charm for a 
sprained ankle. 

(4) Promiscuous examples :— 

Niobe’s children lay nine days in their 
blood before they were buried. 

Nine buttons of official rank in China. 

Nine of Diamonds (q.v.). The curse 
of Scotland. 

There are nine mandarins (¢.v.). 

Planets. The nine are: (1) Mer- 
cury, (2) Venus, (3) Earth, (4) Mars, 
(5) the Planetoids, (6) Jupiter, (7) 
Saturn, (8) Uranus, (9) Neptune. 

According to the Ptolemaic system, there were 
seven planets, the Firmament or the Fixt, and 
the Crystalline. Above these nine came the 
Primum Mobile or First Moved, and the Empy- 
rean or abode of Deity. 

The followers of Jaina, a heterodox 
sect of the Hindus, believe all objects 
are classed under nine categories. (See 
J AINAS. ) 

Shakespeare speaks of the ‘‘ ninth part 
of a hair.”’ 

δ Τὴ] cavil on the ninth part of a hair.” 

1 Hen. IV., ili 1. 

Nine. 70 look nine ways. To squint. 


Nine. The superlative of superla- 
tives in Eastern estimation. It is by 
nines that Eastern presents are given 
when the donor wishes to extend his 
bounty to the highest pitch of munifi- 
cence, 

“ He [Dakianos] caused himself to be preceded 
hy nine superb camels. The first was loaded with 
9 suits of gold adorned with jewels ; the second 
hore 9 sabres, the hilts and scabhards of which 
were adorned with diamonds; upon the third 
camel were 9 suits of armour; the fourth had 9 
suits of horse furniture ; the sifth had 9 cases full 
of sapphires ; the siath had 9 cases full of rubies ; 
the seventh, 9 cases full of emeralds ; the eighth 
liad 9 cases full of amethysts ; and the ninth had 
9 eases full of diamonds.’—Comte de Caylus: 
Oriental Tales ; Dakianos and the Seven Sleepers. 

Nine Crosses. Altar crosses, pro- 
cessional crosses, roods on lofts, reliquary 
crosses, consecration crosses, marking 
crosses, pectoral crosses, spire crosses, 
and crosses pendent over altars. (Pugin : 


Glossary of Ecclesiastical Ornaments.) 
Nine Crowns. (See Crowns.) 


Nine Days’ Wonder (4). Something 
that causes a great sensation for a few 
days, and then passes into the limbo of 
things forgotten. In Bohn’s Handbook 
of Proverbs we have ‘‘ A wonder lasts 
nine days, and then the puppy’s eyes are 
open,’’ alluding to cats and dogs, which 


Nine Gods 


892 


Nip-cheese 


are born blind. As much as to say, the 

eyes of the public are blind in astonish- 

ment for nine days, but then their eyes 
are open, and they see too much to 
wonder any longer. 

“King: You'd think it strange if I should marry 
Glister : That would be ten days’ wonder, at the 
King: That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.” 

Shakespeare: 3 Henry VI, iii. 2. 
Nine Gods (76). (1) Of the Etrus- 
cans: Juno, Minerva, and Tin’ia (the three 
chief) ; the other six were Vulcan, Mars, 
and Saturn, Herculés, Summanus, and 

Vedius. 


“ Lars Porséna of Clusium 
By the nine godshe swore | 
That the great house of Tayguin 
Should suffer wrong no m@re.” 
Macaulay: Lays of Ancient Rome UToratius, i.). 
(2) Of the Sabines (2 syl.). Hercules, 
Romulus, Esculapius, Bacchus, Aunéas, 
Vesta, Santa, Fortuna, and Fidés. 


Nine Points of the Law. Success 
in a law-suit requires (1) a good deal 
of money ; (2) a good deal of patience ; 
(3) a good cause; (4) a good lawyer; 
(5) a good counsel ; (6) good witnesses ; 
(7) a good jury; (8) a good judge; and 
(9) good luck. 


Nine Spheres (7/c). Milton, in his 
Aycudes, speaks of the ‘‘ celestial syrens’ 
harmony that sit upon the nine entolded 
spheres.’? The nine spheres are those 
of the Moon, of Mercury, of Venus, of 
the Sun, of Mars, of Jupiter, of Saturn, 
of the Firmament, and of the Crystalline. 
Above these nine heavens or spheres 
come the Primum Mobile, and then the 
Heaven of the heavens, or abode of 
Deity and His angels. 

The earth was supposed-to be in the 
centre of this system. 


Wine Worthies. Joshua, David, and 
Judas Maccabeeus ; Hector, Alexander, 
and Julius Cesar ; Arthur, Charlemagne, 
and Godfrey of Bouillon. . 

“Nine worthies were they called, of different 
rites— 
Three Jews, three pagans, and three Christian 
knights.” 
Dryden: The Flower and the Leaf. 

Nine worthies (privy councillors to 
William ITT.) :— 

Whigs: Devonshire, Dorset, Mon- 
mouth, and Edward Russell. 

Tories : Caermarthen, Pembroke, Not- 
tingham, Marlborough, and Lowther. 

Nine worthies of London, (See Wor- 
THIES. ) 

Ninepence. Nimble as ninepence. 


Silver ninepences were common till the 
year 1696, when all unmilled coin was 


called in. These ninepences were very 
pliable or nimble, and, being bent, were 
given as love tokens, the usual formula 
of presentation being Zo my love, from 
my love, (See Nick As NINEPENCE.) 


Ninian (S¢.). The apostle of the 
Picts (fourth aud fifth centuries). 


Ninon de YEnclos, noted for her 
beauty, wit, and gaiety. She had two 
natural sons, one of whom fell in love 
with her, and blew out his brains when 
he discovered the relationship. (1615- 
1706.) 

Ni/nus. Son of Belus, husband of 
Semir’amis, and the reputed builder of 
Nineveh. 


Niobe (3 syl.). The personification 
of female sorrow. According to Grecian 
fable, Niobe was the mother of twelve 
children, and taunted Lato’na because 
she had only two—namely, Apollo and 
Diana. Lato’na commanded her chil- 
drer to avenge the insult, and they 
caused all the sons and daughters of 
Niobe to die. Niobe was inconsolable, 
wept herself to death, and was changed 
into a stone, from which ran water. 
“ Tike Niobe, all tears’’ (/Zamlet.) 

The group of Niobe and her children, 
in Florence, was discovered at Rome in 
1583, and was the work either of Scopas 
or Praxit’eles. 

The Niobe of nations. So Lord Byron 
styles Rome, the ‘‘ lone mother of dead 
empires,’? with ‘“ broken thrones and 
temples;”? a ‘‘chaos of ruins;” a 
“‘desert where we steer stumbling o’er 
recollections.’ (Childe Harold, canto iv. 
stanza 79.) 


Niord. The Scandinavian sea-god. 
He was not one of the Aisir. Niord’s 
son was Frey (the fairy of the clouds), 
and his daughter was Freyja. His home 
was Noatun. Nidrd was not a sea-god, 
like Neptune, but the Spirit of water 
and air. The Scandinavian Neptune 
was /Egir, whose wife was Skadi. 


Nip (4). Asa “nip of whisky,”’ a 
“nip of brandy,” “just a nip.” A 
nipperkin was a small measure. (Dutch, 
nippen, ἃ sip.) 


Nip in the Bud. Destroy before it 
has developed. ‘‘ Nip sin in the bud,”’ 
Latin, ‘‘ Obsta principiis,” ‘* Venienti 
occurite morbo.”’ ‘* Resist beginnings.”’ 

Nip-cheese or Nip-farthing. A 


miser, who nips or pinches closely his 
cheese and farthings. (Dutch, #ippen.) 


Nipperkin 893 


Nipperkin (4). A small wine and 
beer measure. Now called a ‘‘ nip.” 
“ His hawk-economy won't thank him fort 
Which stops his petty nipperkin of port.” 
Peter Pindar: Hair Powder, 
Nirva’na. Annihilation, or rather 
the final deliverance of the soul from 
transmigration (in Buddhism). Sanskrit, 
nir, out; vdna, blow. (See GAUTAMA.) 


Nishapoor and Tous. Mountains 
in Khorassan where turquoises are 
found. 


Nisi Prius. 4 Wisi Case, a cause to 
be tried in the assize courts. Sittings at 
Οὐδὲ Prius, sessions of Nisi Prius Courts, 
which never try criminal cases. 7'rial 
at Nisi, a trial before judges of assize. 
An action at one time could be tried 
only in the court where it was brought, 
but Magna Charta provided that certain 
cases, Instead of being tried at West- 
minster in the superior courts, should be 
tried in their proper counties before 
judges of assize. The words “ Nisi 
Prius’? are two words on which the 
following clause attached to the writs 
entirely hinges :—‘‘ Wecommand you to 
come before our justices at Westminster 
on the morrow of All Souls’, NISI 
PRIUS justiciarii domini regis ad assisas 
capiendas venerint —7.¢. unless previously 
the justices of our lord the king come 
to hold their assizes at (the court of your 
own assize town).’” 


Nis’roch. An idol of the Ninevites 
represented in their sculptures with a 
hawk’s head. The word means (Great 
Lagle. 


Nit. 
Mab. 

Nitouche (S¢.) or Wie Touche (Touch- 
me-not). A hypocrite, a demure-looking 
pharisee. The French say, Faire la 
Sainte Nitouche, to pretend to great 
sanctity, or look as if butter would not 
melt in your mouth, 


“Tt is certainly difficult to believe hard things 
of a Woman who looks like Ste. Nitouche in 
profile.’—J. O. Hobbes : Some Emotions and a Moral, 
chap. lil. 

Nix (mas.), Nixie (fem.). Kind busy- 
body. Little creatures not unlike the 
Seotch brownie and German Sobol. 
They wear a red cap, and are ever ready 
to lend a helping hand to the industrious 
and thrifty. (See Nicx.) 


“ Another tribe of water-fairies are the Nixes, 
who frequently ee the appearance of beauti- 
ful maidens.” . F. T. Dyer: Folk-love of Plants, 


chap. vii. p. 90, 
Nixon. Red-faced. 


* Like a red-faced Nixon.’—Pickwick, 


One of the attendants of Queen 


Noakes 


Nizam’. A title of sovereignty in 
Hyderabad (India), derived from Nizamn- 
wl-mulk (regulator ot the state), who ob- 
tained possession of the Deccan at the 
beginning of the 18th century. The name 
Cesar was by the Romans used precisely 
in the same manner, and has descended 
to the present hour in the form of Aaiser 
(of the German Empire). 


Njord. God of the winds and waves. 
(Edda.) 


No Man is a Hero to his cwn 
Valet. Montaigne (1533-1592) said: 
** Peu a’ hommes ont esté admires par leurs 
domestiques.”” Mad, Cornuel (who died 
1694) wrote to the same effect: “" 7} n'y 
a pas de“rand homme pour son valet de 
chambre.” 

“A prophet is not without honour savein.... 
lis own louse.’’—Matt. xili. 56. 

No More Poles. Give over work. 
The cry in hop-gardens when the pickers 
are to cease working. 


“When the sun set, the ery of ‘No more poles’ 
resounded, and the work of the day was done.” 
—The Ludgate Monthly: Hops and Hop-pickers, 
November, 1891. 


No-Popery Riots. Those of Edin- 
burgh and Glasgow, February 5th, 1779. 


‘Those of London, occasioned by Lord 


George Gordon, in 1780, 


Noah’s Ark (Genesis vi. 15) was 
about as big as a medium-sized church, 
that is, from 450 to 500 feet long, from 
75 to 85 feet broad, and from 45 to 40 
feet high, with one window in the roof. 
Toy arks represent it with rows of 
windows on each side, which is in- 
correct. 

Noah’s Ark. A white band spanning 
the sky like a rainbow ; if east and west 
expect dry weather, if north and south 
expect wet. 


Noah’s Wife [Noraida], according 
to legend, was unwilling to go into 
the ark, and the quarrel. between the 
patriarch and his wife forms a very 
prominent feature of Noah’s Flood, in 
the Chester and Townley Mysteries. 

“ Tastow nought herd, quod Nicholas, also 

The sorwe of Noé with his fel: ischipe 
That he had or he gat his wyf to schipe ?’ 
Chaucer: Canterbury aie ean 534. 

Noakes (John) or John o’ Noakes. 
A fictitious name, formerly made use of 
by lawyers in actions of ejectment. His 
name was generally coupled with that of 
Tom Styles. Similarly, John Doe and 
Richard Roe were used. The Roman 
names were Titins and Seius (Juv. Sat. 
iv. 13). All these worthies are the 
hopeful sons of Mrs. Harris. 


Nob 894 


Nob (Zhe). The head. For synod. 


Nob of the First Water (4). A 
mighty boss; a grand panjandrum 
(7.v.). First water refers to diamonds. 
(See DraMonpDs.) 


Nobs and Snobs. Nobles 
pseudo-nobles. (See Mos, SNos.) 


Noble. An ancient coin, so called on 
account of the superior excellency of its 
gold. Nobles were originally disposed 
of as a reward for good news, or im- 
portant service done. Edward III. was 
the first who coined rose nobles (q¢.v.), 
and gave 100 of them to Gobin Agace of 
Picardy, for showing him a ford across 
the river Somme, when he wanted to 
join his army. 

The Noble, Charles III. of Navarre 
(1361-1425). Soliman T7ehelidi, Turkish 
prince at Adrianople (died 1410), 


Noble Soul. The surname given to 
Khosri I., the greatest monarch of the 
Sassanian dynasty. ( * , 531-579.) 

Noblesse Oblige (French). Noble 
birth imposes the obligation of high- 
minded principles and noble actions. 


Noctes Ambrosia’‘nz. While Lock- 
hart was writing J’a/e'rius, he was in the 
habit of taking walks with Professor 
Wilson every morning, and of supping 
with Blackwood at Ambrose’s, a small 
tavern in Edinburgh. One night Lock- 
hart said, ‘‘ What a pity there has not 
been a short-hand writer here to take 
down all the good things that have been 
5814 1 and next day he produced a 
paper from memory, and called it Voctes 
Ambrosiane. That was the first of the 
series. The part ascribed to Hogg, the 
Ettrick Shepherd, is purely supposi- 
titious. 

Noc'tuas Athe’nas Ferre. To carry 
coals to Newcastle. Athens abounded 
with owls, and Minerva was therefore 
symbolised by an owl. To send owls to 
Athens would be wasteful and extrava- 
gant excess. 


Nod. 4 nod is as good as a wink to 
a blind horse. Whether you nod or 
whether you wink, if a horse is blind he 
knows it not; and a person who will 
not see takes no notice of hints and 
signs. The common ‘use of the phrase, 
however, is the contrary meaning, viz. 
“Δ twig your meaning, though you speak 
darkly of what you purpose ; but mum’s 
the word.”’ 


“A nod isas good as a wink to a blind horse ; 
and there are certain understandings, in public as 
well as in private life, which it is hetter for all 
parties not to put into writing.’—The Nineteenth 
Century (July, 1893, p. 6). 


and 


Nolle Prosequi 
Nod (Zhe Land of). (See LAND oF 
Nop.) 
Noddy. A Tom Noddy is a very 


foolish or half-witted person, “ἃ 
noodle.’? The marine birds called 
Noddies are so silly that anyone can go 
up to them and knock them down with 
a stick. A donkey is called a Neddy 
Noddy. 

“ Minshew has a capital guess deriva- 
tion, well fitted for a Dictionary of 
Fable. He says, ‘‘ Noddy, a fool, so 
called because he nods his head when he 
ought to speak.’’ Just as well derive 
wise-man from why, because he wants 
to kuow the why of everything. 


Nodel. The lion in the beast-epic 
called Reynard the Fox. WNodel re- 
presents the regal element of Germany ; 
Isengrim, the wolf, represents the baro- 
nial element; and Reynard represents 
the church element. 


Noel. Christmas day, or a Christ- 
mas carol. <A contraction of xomvelles 
(tidings), written in old English, xorells, 

“A child this day is born, 
A child of high renown, 
Most worthy of a sceptre, 
A sceptre and a crown. 
Nowells, nowells, nowells ! 
Sing all we may, 
Because that Christ, the King, 
Was born this blessed day.” 
Old Caror. 

Noko’mis. Daughter of the Moon. 
Sporting one day with her maidens on a 
swing made of vine canes, a rival cut the 
swing, and Nckomis fell to earth, where 
she gave birth to a daughter named 
Weno’nah. 


Nollens Vo'lens. Whether willing 
or not. Two Latin participles meaning 
“being unwilling (or) willing.”’ 


Noli me Tan’gere. Touch me not. 
The words Christ used to Mary Mag- 
dalene after His resurrection. It is the 
motto of the Order of the Thistle. A 
plant of the genus impatiens. 'The seed- 
vessels consist of one cell in five divisions, 
and when the seed is ripe each of these, 
on being touched, suddenly folds itself 
into a spiral form and leaps from the 
stalk. (See Darwin - Loves of the Plants, 
1. 3.) 

Noll. Old Noll. Oliver Cromwell 
was so called by the Royalists. Noll is 
a familiar contraction of Oliver—7.e. OV 
with an initial liquid. 

Nolle Pros’equi [Don’t prosecute]. 
A petition from a plaintiff to stay a suit, 
(See Now Pros.) 


Nolo. Episcopari 


Nolo Episcopa'ri. [J am wiwilling 
to accept the office of bishop.| A very 
general notion prevails that every bishop 
at consecration uses these words. Mr. 
Christian, in his notes to Blackstone, 
says, ‘“‘ The origin of these words and of 
this vulgar notion I have not been able 
to discover ; the bishops certainly give 
no such refusal at present, and I am 
inclined to think they never did at any 
time in this country.’? When the see of 
Bath and Wells was offered to Beve- 
ridge, he certainly exclaimed, ‘Volo 
episcopari ;”? but it was the private 
expression of his own heart, and not a 
form of words, in his case. Chamber- 
layne says in former times the person 
about to be elected bishop modestly 
refused the office twice, and if he did so 
a third time his refusal was accepted. 
(Present State of England.) 


Nom. ‘ None de guerre” is French 
for a ‘‘ war name,”’ but really means an 
assumed name. It was customary αὖ 
one time for everyone who entered the 
French army to assume a name; this 
was especially the case in the times of 
chivalry, when knights went by the 
device of their shields or some other 
distinctive character in their armour, 
as the ‘‘ Red-cross Knight.”’ 

“ Nom de plume.’’? Euglish-French for 
the ‘‘ pen name,’’ and meaning the name 
assumed by a writer who does not choose 
to give his own name to the public; as 
Peter, Pindar, the nom de plume of Dr. 
John Wolcot; Peter Parley, of Mr. 
Goodrich; Cwurrer Bell, of Charlotte 
Bronté; Cuthbert Bede, of the Rev. 
Edward Bradley, etc. 


Nom’‘ads. Wanderers who live in 
tents ; pastoral tribes without fixed resi- 


dence. (Greek, nomddés: from -ndinds, 
a pasture. ) 
Nom/‘inalists. A sect founded by 


Roscelin, Canon of Compiégne (1040- 
1120). He maintained that if the Father, 
Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, they 
eannot be three distinct persons, but 
must be simply three ames of the same 
being ; just as father, son, and husband 
are three distinct names of one and the 
same man under different conditions. 
Abélard, William Occam, Buridan, 
Hobbes, Locke, Bishop Berkeley, Con- 
dillac, and Dugald Stewart are the most 
celebrated disciples of Roscelin. (See 
_REALISTS.) 


Non Angli sed Angeli, si forent 
Christiani. Words attributed to Gre- 
gory (the Great) in 573 when some 


89 


Nonce 


British children reduced to slavery were 
shown him at Rome. Gregory was at 
the time about thirty-five years of age, 
and was both abbot and cardinal- 
deacon. 


Non Bis in Idem (Latin). Nottwice 
for the same thing—/.e. no man can be 
tried a second time on the same charge. 


Non-Com. (4). A non-commissioned 
officer in the army. 

Non Compos Mentis or Non Com. 
Not of sound mind; a lunatic, idiot, 
drunkard, or one who has lost memory 
and understanding by accident or dis- 
ease. 


Non Con. (See NONCONFORMIST.) 


Non Est. A contraction of Now cst 
inventus (not to be-found). They are 
the words which the sheriff writes on a 
writ when the defendant is not to be 
found in his bailiwick. 


Non mi Recordo, a shuffling way of 
saying :‘‘.I don’t choose to answer that 
question.”? It was the usual answer of 
the Itahan courier and other Italian 
witnesses when on examination at the 
trial of Queen Caroline, wife of George 
IV., in 1820. 


“The Italian witnesses often created amuse- 
ment, when under examination, by the frequent 
answer, ‘ Now mi recordo.’’—Cussell’s History of 


England, vol. vit. iv. 16. 


Non Plus (‘‘no more’’ can be said 
on the subject). When aman is come to 
@ non-plus in an argument, it means 
that he is unable to deny or controvert 
what is advanced against him. ‘‘To 
non-plus’’ a person is to put him into 
such a fix, 

Non Pros. for Non pros’equi (not to 
prosecute). The judgment of Non pros. 
is one for costs, when the plaintiff stays 
a suit. 

Non Sequitur (4). A conclusion 
which does not follow from the premises 
stated. 

“The name hegan with B and ended with G. 


Perhaps it was’ Waters.” — Dickens: Nicholas 
Nickleby, 1ν. 198. 
Nonce. forthe nonce. A corruption 


of for then anes (for then once), mean- 
ing for this once. “‘An apron”’ for @ 
naperon is an example of » transferred 
the other way. We have some half- 
dozen similar examples in the language, 
as ‘‘tother day’’—i.e. the other or 
thet other =the other. Nuncle used in 
King Lear, which was originally mine- 
wicle, An arrant knaye is a narrant 
knaye. (See NaG.)... 


Nonconformists 


896 


Norrisian 


Nenconformists. The 2,000 clergy- 
meu who, in 1662, left the Church of 
England, rather than conform or sub- 
mit to the conditions of the Act of 
Uniformity—i.e. ‘‘ unfeigned assent to 
all and everything contained in the Book 
of Common Prayer.’’? The word is loosely 
used for Dissenters generally. 


Nones (1 syl.), in the Roman calen- 
dar. 
On March the 7th, June, July, 
October too, the NONES you spy ; 
Except in these, those Nones appear 
On the 5th day of all the year. 
If to the Nones you add an & 
Of every IDE you'll tind the date. 
Ε΄. C. 8. 


Nonjurors. Those clergymen who 
refused to take the oath of allegiance to 
the new government after the Revolu- 
tion. They were Archbishop Sancroft 
with eight other bishops, and four hun- 
dred clergymen, all of whom were 
ejected from their livings. (1691.) 


Nonne Prestes Tale. ἃ thrifty 
widow had a cock, ‘hight Chaunt’e- 
clere,’’ who had his harem ; but ‘‘ dam- 
ysel Per’tilote’? was his favourite, who 
perched beside him at night. Chaunte- 
clere once dreamt that he saw a fox who 
‘tried to make arrest on his body,’’ but 
Pertilote chided him for placing faith 
in dreams. Next day a fox came into 
the poultry-yard, but told Chaunteclere 
he merely came to hear him sing, for 
his voice was so ravishing he could not 
deny himself that pleasure. ‘The cock, 
pleased with this flattery, shut his eyes 
and began to crow most lustily, when 
Dan Russell seized him by the throat 
and ran off with him. When they got 
to the wood, the cock said to the fox, 
“IT should advise you to eat me, and 
that anon.’’ ‘‘It shall be done,”’ said 
the fox, but as he loosed the cock’s neck 
to speak the word, Chaunteclere flew 
from his back into a tree. Presently 
came a hue and cry after the fox, who 
escaped with difficulty, and Chaunteclere 
returned to the poultry-yard wiser and 
discreeter for his adventure. (Chaucer : 
Canterbury Tales.) 

This tale is taken from the old French 
“ὁ Roman de Renart.”’ The same story 
forms also one of the fables of Marie of 
France, ‘‘ Don Coe et Don Werpil.”’ 


Nor. The giant, father of Night. 
He dwelt in Utgard. (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 


Norfolk. The folk north of Kent, 
Essex, and Suffolk. 
Norfolk-Howards. 


Bugs, A man 


ie 


named Bugg, in 1868, changed his name 
into Norfolk- Howard. 


Norfolk Street (Strand), with 
Arundel, Surrey, and Howard Streets, 
were the site of the house and grounds 
of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, then 
of the Lord High Admiral Seymour, 
and afterwards ot the Howards, Earls 
of Arundel and Surrey, from whom it 
came into the possession of the Earl of 
Norfolk. 


Norma. A vestal priestess who has 
been seduced. She discovers her para- 
mour in an attempt to seduce her friend, 
also a vestal priestess, and in despair 
contemplates the murder of her base- 
born children. The libretto is a melo- 
drama by Romani, music by Bellini 
(1831.) (Norma, an opera.) 


Normandy. Zhe Poles are the vin- 
tagers in Normandy. The Norman vin- 
tage consists of apples beaten down by 
poles. The French say, ‘‘ En Normandie 
Von vendange avec la gaule,’’ where gaule 
is a play on the word Gaul, but really 
means a pole. 


The Gem of Normandy. Emma, 
daughter of Richard I. (*-1052.) 


Norna, The well of Urda, where the 
gods sit in judgment, and near which is 
that ‘‘fair building’? whence proceed 
the three maidens called Urda, Verdandi, 
and Skulda (Last, Present, and Future). 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Norna of the Fitful Head. A 
character in Sir Walter Scott’s /’%irate, 
to illustrate that singular kind of in- 
sanity which is ingenious in self-imposi- 
tion, as those who fancy a lunatic asylum 
their own palace, the employés thereof 
their retinue, and the porridge provided 
a banquet fit for the gods. Norna’s real 
name was Ulla Troil, but after her amour 
with Basil Mertoun (Vaughan), and the 
birth of a son, named Clement Cleve- 
land, she changed her name out of 
shame. ‘Towards the end of the novel 
she gradually recovered her 1ight mind. 


Nornir or Norns. The three fates of 
Scandinavian mythology, Past, Present, 
and Future. They spin the events of 
human life sitting under the ash-tree 
Yegegdrasil (Igq'-dra-sil’). 

Besides these three Norns, every 
human creature has a personal Norn or 


Fate. The home of the Norns is called 
in Scandinavian mythology ‘‘ Doom- 
stead.”’ 


Norrisian Professor. A Professor 
of Divinity in Cambridge University. 


Norroy 


This professorship was founded in 1760 
by John Norris, Esq., of Whitton in 
Norfolk. The four divinity professors 
are Lady Margaret’s Professor of Divin- 
ity, Regius Professor of Divinity, Nor- 
risian Professor, and Hulsean Professor. 


Norroy. North-roy or king. The 
third king-of-arms is so called, because 
his office is on the north side of the river 
Trent ; that of the south side is called 
Clarencieux (,.1}..). 


Norte. Violent northern gales, which 
visit the Gulf of Mexico from September 
to March. In March they attain their 
maximum force, and then immediately 
cease. (Spanish, 7érte, the north.) 


North (Christopher). A nom-de-plune 
of Professor Wilson, of Gloucester Place, 
Edinburgh, one of the chief contributors 
to Blackwood’s Magazine. 


North. He’s too far north for me, 
Too canny, too cunning to be taken in ; 
very hard in making a bargain. The 
inhabitants of Yorkshire are supposed to 
be very canny, especially in driving a 
bargain. 

North-east Passage (716). A way 
to India from Europe round the north 
extremit, of Asia. It had been often 
attempted even in the 16th century. 
Hence Beaumont and Fletcher : 

“ That everlasting cassock, that has worn 

As many servants out as the North-east Passage 

Has consumed sailors.” 

The Tamer Tamed, ii. 2. 

North Side of the Altar (7c). 
The side on which the Gospel is read. 
The north is the dark part of the earth, 
and the Gospel is the light of the world 
which shineth in darkness—‘‘ t//wiminare 
his qui in tenebris et in wnbré mortis 
vedent.’’ Facing the altar from the body 
᾿ξ the church, the north side is on your 
eft. 


North Side of aChurchyard. The 
poor have a great objection to be buried 
on the north side of a churchyard. 
They seem to think only evil-doers 
should be there interred. Probably the 
chief reason is the want of sun. On the 
north side of Glasgow cathedral is shown 
the hangman’s burial place. 

There is, however, an ecclesiastical 
reason :—The east is God’s side, where 
His throne is set; the west, man’s side, 
the Galilee of the Gentiles; the south, 
the side of the ‘‘ spirits made just’? and 
angels, where the sun shines in his 
strength; the north, the devil’s side, 
where Satan and his legion lurk to catch 
the unwary. Some churches have still 


57 


897 


Nose 


a “‘devil’s door”? in the north wall, 
which is opened at baptisms and com- 
munions to let the devil out. 

“ As men die, so shall they arise ; if in faith in 
the Lord, towards the south... and shall arise 
in glory ; if in unbelief ... towards the north, 
then are they pastall hope.’—Coverdule: Praying 
for the Dead. 

Northamptonshire Poet. John 
Clare, son of a farmer at Helpstone. 
(1793-1864) 


Northern Bear. Russia. 


Northern Gate of the Sun. The 
sign of Cancer, or summer solstice ; so 
called because it marks the northem 
tropic. 

Northern Lights. The Aurora 
Borea‘lis, ascribed by the northern 
savages to the merriment of the ghosts. 
(See AURORA.) 


Northern Wagoner (716). Ursa 
Major, called ‘‘Charles’s wain,’’ or 
wagon. Theconstellation contains seven 
large stars. ‘‘ King Charles’s Wain” is 
absurd. ‘‘ Charles’ Wain’’ is a blunder 
for the ‘‘ Churls’ or Peasants’ Wain.’’ 

“ By this the northern wagoner has set 
His sevenfold team beliind the stedfast star [the 
pole-star).” Spenser: Faérie Queene, i. 2. 

Norval. An aged peasant and his 

son in Home’s tragedy of Douglas. 


Norway (Maid of). Margaret, in- 
fant queen of Scotland. She was the 
daughter of Eric II., King of Norway, 
and Margaret, daughter of Alexander 
IIL. of Scotland. She never actually 
reigned, as she died on her passage to 
Scotland in 1290. 


Nose. Bleeding of the nose. 
love. 

©*Did my nose ever bleed when I was in your 
company ?’ and, poor wretch, just as she spake 
this, to show her true heart, her nose fell a-}leed- 
ing.”—Boulster : Lectures, p. 130. 

Bleeding of the nose. Grose says if it 
bleedsone drop only it forebodes sickness, 
if three drops the omen is still worse ; 
but Melton, in his Astiologaster, says, 
«ὁ Tf a man’s nose bleeds one drop at the 
left nostril it is a sign of good luck, and 
vice versa.” 

Ted by the nose. Isaiah xxxvii, 29 
says, ‘* Because thy rage against Me. . . 
is come up into Mine ears, therefore will 
I put My hook in thy nose . . . and will 
turn thee back... .’’ Horses, asses, 
etc., led by bit and bridle, are led by the 
nose. Hence Iago says of Othello, he 
was ‘‘ led by the nose as asses are ”’ (i. 3). 
But buffaloes, camels, and bears are 
actually led by a ring inserted into their 
nostrils, 


Sign of 


Nose 


Nose 


Golden nose. Tycho Brahe, the Danish 
astronomer. Having lost his nose in a 
duel with Passberg, he adopted a golden 
one, which he attached to his face by a 
cement which he carried about with him, 

“That eminent man who had a golden nose, 


Tycho Brahe."—Marryat : Jutland and the Danish 
Tsles, }0. 305. 


** General Zelislaus, having lost his 
right hand in battle, had a golden one 
given him by Boleslaus IIT. 

To count noses. 'Tocount the numbers 
of adivision. Itisa horse-dealer’s term, 
who counts horses by the nose, for the 
sake of convenience. Thus the Times, 
comparing the House of Commons to 
Tattersall’s, says, ‘‘ Such is the counting 
of noses upon a question which lies at 
the basis of our constitution.”’ 

To cut off your nose to spite your face, 
or... tobe revenged on your face. To 
act out of pique in such a way as to in- 
jure yourself: as torun away from home, 
to marry out of pique, to throw up a 
good situation in a fit of ill temper, etc., 
or any similar folly. 

To keep one’s nose to the grin’-stone. 
To keep one hard at work. ‘Tools, such 
as scythes, chisels, etc,, are constantly 
sharpened on a stone or with a grin’- 
stone. The nose of a stair is the edge, 
and “ nose’’ im numerous phrases stands 
for the person’s self. In French vez is 
so used in some phrases. 

_“ From this ... he kept Bill’s nose to the grind- 
ing-stone.”’—W. B. Yeats: Fairy Tales of the Irish 
Peasantry, Ὁ. 237. 

Paying through the nose. Grimm says 
that Odin had a poll-tax which was called 
in Sweden a nose-tax; it was a penny 
per nose or poll.  (Dewtsche Rechts 
Alterthimer.) (See Nose Tax, RuINo.) 

To snap one’s nose off. To speak snap- 
pishly. ‘‘ Ready to snap one’s nose off.’’ 
To ‘pull (or wring) the nose,’’ tive” or 
arracher le nez is to affront by an act of 
indignity ; tosnap one’s nose is to affront 
by speech. Fighting dogs snap at each 
other’s noses. 

To wipe [one’s| nose. To affront a 
person; to give one a blow on the nose. 
Similarly, fo wipe a person’s eye ; to fetch 
one a wipe over the knuckles, ete., con- 
nected with the Anglo-Saxon verb 
hiweop-an, to whip, to strike (our whip). 

“She was so nose-wipt, slighted, and dis- 
dained.”—Nares’ Glossary, p. 619. 

* “To wipe off a score,’’ ‘‘to wipe a 
person down,’’ meaning to cajole or 
pacity ; from the Anglo-Saxon wipian, 
to wipe, cleanse. Hence to fleece one 
out of his money. Quite another verb 
to that given above, 


To take pepper in the nose. To take 
offence. 


“A manis testy, and anger wrinkles his nose ; 
such a man takes pepper in the nose,’—Optick 
Glasse of Humors (1639). 

To turn up one’s nose. Toexpress con- 
tempt. When a person sneers he turns 
up the nose by curling the upper lip. 

Under your [very] nose. This is 
French also: ‘* Aw nez et a la barbe de 
quelqwun’’ (** Just before your face’’). 
Nose = face in numerous locutions, both 
in French and English; as, ‘‘ Montrer 
son nez;’’ ** Réegarder quelqwun sous le 
nez ;᾽ ‘* Mettre le nez a la fenétre,”’ ete. 


Nose-bag (4). A visitor to a house 
of refreshment who brings his own 
victuals and calls for a glass of water or 
lemonade. The reference is to carrying 
the feed of a horse in a nose-bag to save 
expense, 


Nose Literature. 
* Knows he, that never took a pinch, 
Nosey, the pleasure thence that flows ? 
Knows he the titillating joy 
Which my nose knows ? 
O nose, I am as proud of thee 
As any mountain of its snows ; 
I gaze on thee, and feel that pride 
A Roman knows.” 
Ff. C. H{usenbeth), translated from the 
French of ὁ. Basselin, 

Chapter on Noses, in Tristram Shandy, 
by L. Sterne. 

On the Dignity, Gravity, and Authority 
of Noses, by Taglicozzi or Tagliacozzo 
(1597). 

De Virginitate (sec. 77). 
in Kornmann. 

The Noses of Adam and Eve, by Mlle. 
Bourignon. 

Pious Meditations on the Nose of the 
Virgin Mary, by J. Petit. 

Review of Noses (Louis Brevitatis), by 
Théophile Raynaud. 

Sermon on Noses (La Diceriade’ Nasi), 
by Annibal Caro (1584). 


Nose Tax (716). In the ninth cen- 
tury the Danes imposed on Irish houses 
a poll tax, historically called the ‘‘ Nose 
Tax,’’ because those who neglected to 
pay the ounce of gold were punished by 
having their nose slit. 


Nose of Wax (4). 
accommodating (faith). 
may be twisted any way. 


“Sed addunt etiam simile quoddam non aptis- 
simum ; Eas esse quoddammodo nasum cereum, 
posse fingi, flectique in omnes modos, et omnium 
institutio inservire.”’—Juelli Apologia, Ecc. Angl., 


sec. 6. 


Nose Out of Joint. 70. put one’s 
nose out of joint is to supplant a person 
in another's good graces. To put 
another person’s nose where yours is 


A chapter 


Mutable and 
A waxen nose 


Nosey 


now. ‘There is a good French locution, 
“ Tui couper Vherbe sous le pied.’ (In 
Latin, ‘* Aliquem de jure suo dejicere.’’) 
Sometimes it means to humiliate a con- 
ceited person. 

“Fearing now least this wench which is 
brought over hither should put your nose out the 
joynt, comming betweene home and you.”— 
Terence in English (1614). 

Nosey. The Duke of Wellington was 
lovingly so called by the soldiery. His 
“‘commander’s nose’? was a very dis- 
tinguishing feature of the Iron Duke. 


Nos‘not-Bo'cai [Bo'-ky]. Prince of 
Purgatory. Purgatory is the ‘‘ realm 
of Nosnot-Bocai,”’ 

“ Sir, I last night received command 
To see you out of Fairy land, | 
Into the realm of Nosnot-Bocai ; 
But Jet not fear or sulphur choak-ye, 
For he’s a fiend of sense and wit.” 
King: Orpheus and Eurydice. 

Nostradamus (J/ichacl). An astro- 
loger who published an annual *‘ Al- 
manack,’’ very similar in character to 
that of ‘‘ Francis Moore,” and a Recueil 
of Prophecies, in four-line stanzas, ex- 


tending over seven centuries. (1503- 
1560.) 
The Nostradamus of Portugal. Gon- 


galo Annés Bandarra, a poet-cobbler, 
whose lucubrations were stopped by the 
Inquisition. (Died 1556.) 

Ls good a prophet as Nostradamus—i.e. 
so obscure that none can make out your 
meaning. Nostrada’mus was a provincial 
astrologer of the sixteenth century, who 
has left a number of prophecies in verse, 
but what they mean no one has yet been 
able to discover. (French proverb.) 


Nostrum means Owr own. It is 
applied to a quack medicine, the ingre- 
dients of which are supposed to be a 
secret of the compounders. (Latin.) 


Not, in riding and driving. 


“Upa hill burry not, 
Down a hill flurry not, 
On level ground spare him not.” 
On a Milestone in Yorkshire (near Richmond). 
Not at Home. Scipio Nasica was 
intimate with the poet Ennius. One 
day, calling on the poet, the servant 
said, ‘‘Ennius is not at home,’’ but 
Nasica could see him plainly in the 
house. Well, he simply walked away 
without a word. <A few days later 
Ennius returned the visit, and Nasica 
called out, ‘‘ Not at home.’ Ennius 
instantly recognised the voice, and re- 
monstrated. ‘‘ You area nice fellow”’ 
(said Nasica) ; ‘‘ why, I believed your 
slave, and you won't believe me.”’ 


__This tale is often attributed to Dean Swift, but, 
if authentic, it was a borrowed mot, 


899 Notarica 


Not Worth a Rap. 
Not Worth a Rush. 
Not Worth a Straw. (Sve Straw.) 


Not Worth Your Salt. Not worth 
your wages. ‘The Romans served out 
rations of salt and other necessaries to 
their soldiers and civil servants. These 
rations were called by the general name 
of salt (sa/), and when money was sub- 
stituted for these rations, the stipend 
went by the name of sa/-arium. 


Not’ables (in French history). An 
assembly of nobles or notable men, 
selected by the king, of the House of 
Valois, to form a parliament. They 
were convened in 1626 by Richelieu, and 
not again till 1787 (a hundred and sixty 
years afterwards), when Louis XVI. 
called them together with the view of 
relieving the nation of some of its 
pecuniary embarrassments. The last 
time they ever assembled was November 
6th, 1788. 


Notarica. 

A. E. I. Ο. U. Austria’s Empire Is 
Over all Universal. (See A. E. I. O. U.) 

“ra, A. ER. A—i.e, Anno ERat 
August. (See ASRA.) 

Cabal. Clifford, Ashley, Buckingham, 
Arlington, Lauderdale. (See Capat..) 


(See Rap.) 
(See Rusu.) 


Cho, Chelsea, London, Islington, 
Office. (See CLI0.) 
Hempe. ‘When hempe is spun, 


England is done.’”? Henry, /dward, 
Mary, Philip, Flizabeth. (See HEMPE.) 

Hip! hip! hurrah ! Hierosolyma Est 
Perdita. (See Hr.) 

Ichthus. Ie'sous CHristos THeou Vios 
Soter. (See IcHTHUS.) 

ΝΟ ΣΑ͂. Onell Us" Cit-120%- 
ga-otu)—i.e. In The Name Of The 
Great Architect Of The Universe. A 
Freemason’s notarica. 

Koli. King’s Own Light Imfantry 
(the 51st Foot). 

Limp. Louis, James, Mary, Prince. 
(See Limp.) 

Maccabees. Mi Camokah, Pazlim Je- 
hovah, (See MAccABRUS.) 

News. North, East, West, 
(See NEws.) 

Smectym nuus. Stephen Marshall, d- 
mund Calamy, Zhomas Young, Matthew 


South. 


Newcomen, Uuilliam Spurstow.  (Sce 
SMEC. ) z 
Tory. True Old Royal Yeoman. 


The following palindrome may be 
added : §.T..N.u.T.E. Eat to live, Never 
live to eat. In Latin thus: E.U.V.N.V.U.E. 
Ldas ut vivas, ne vivas ut edas. 


Notary Public 


900 


Noyades 


Whig. We Hope In God. 

Wise. Wales, Ireland, Scotland, Eng- 
land—i.c. Wales, Ireland, and Scotland 
added to England. 


Notary Public. A law officer whose 
duty it is to attest deeds, to make au- 
thentic copies of documents, to make 
protests of bills, and to act as a legal 
witness of any formal act of public 
concern. 


Notation or Notes. (Sze Do.) 


Notch. Out of all notch. Out of all 
bounds. The allusion is to the practice 
of fitting timber: the piece which is to 
receive the other is zotched upon ; the one 
to fit into the notch is said to be notched 
down. 


Note of Hand (4). A promise to 
pay made in writing and duly signed. 


Nothing. ‘A tune played by the 
picture of nobody.” (Shakespeare : 
Tempest, 111. 2.) 

Notoriety. Depraved taste for noto- 
riety 155- 

Cleom’brotos, who leaped into the sea. 
(See CLEOMBROTOS.) 

Emped’ocles, who leaped into Etna. 
(See EMPEDOCLES. ) 

Heros’tratos, who set fire to the tem- 
ple of Diana. (See D1Ana.) 

William Lloyd, who broke in pieces 
the Portland vase. (1815.) 

Jonathan Martin, who set fire to York 
Minster. (1829.) 


Nottingham (Saxon, Swotingahan, 
place of caves). So called from the 
caverns in the soft sandstone rock, 
Montecute took King Edward III. 
through these subterranean passages to 
the hill castle, where he found the 
‘‘eentle Mortimer’? and Isabella, the 
dowager-queen. ‘The former was slain, 
and the latter imprisoned. The passage 
is still called ‘‘ Mortimer’s Hole.” 

Nottingham oct. Philip 
Bailey, author of Festus. 
Bashford-in-the-Burgh, 
(1816.) 


Nottingham Lambs. The roughs of 
N.ttingham. 


James 
Born at 
Nottingham. 


Nourmahal’. Sultana. The word 
means Light of the Harem. She was 


afterwards called Nourjehan (Light of 
the World). In Lalla Rookh, the tale 
called The Light of the Harem is this: 
Nourmahal was estranged for a time 
from the love of Selim, son of Acbar’. 
By the advice of Namou’na, she. pre- 
pares a love-spell, and appears as a 


lute-player at a banquet given by ‘‘ the 
imperial Selim.’? At the close of the 
feast she tries the power of song, and 
the young sultan exclaims, ‘‘If Nour- 
mahal had sung those strains I could 
forgive her all;’’ whereupon the sul- 
tana threw off her mask, Selim 
“caught her to his heart,’? and, as 
Nourmahal rested her head on Selim’s 
arm, ‘‘she whispers him, with laughing 
eyes, ‘Remember, love, the Feast of 
lioses.’”’ (Lhomas Moore.) 


Nous (1 syl.). Genius, natural acu- 
men, quick perception, ready wit. The 
Platonists used the word for mind, or 
the first cause. (Greek, mows, contrac- 
tion of noos* Pronounce novce.) 


Nous Avons Change Tout Cela. 
A facetious reproof to a dogmatic prig 
who wants to lay down the law upon 
everything, and talks contemptuously 
of old customs, old authors, old artists, 
and old everything. The phrase is 
taken from Molitre’s Médecin Malgré 
Lui, act 11. se. vi, (1666.) 


“Geronte. ΤΊ n'y a qu’ seule chose qui m'a 
chogué; c'est lendroit du foie et du coeur, Tl me 
semble que vous les placez autrement quwils ne 
sont; que le cceur est du cote gauche, et le foie 


du cote droit. : : Α 3 

Sganarelle. Oui; cela étoit autrefois ainsi ; 
mais nous avons changé tout cela, et nous faisons 
maintenant la médecine d'une méthode toute 
nouvelle, 7 

Geroute. C'est ce que je ne savois pas, et je 
yous demande pardon de mon ignorance.” 

Nova'tians. Followers of Nova- 
tia’nus, a presbyter of Rome in the third 
century, who would never allow anyone 
who had lapsed to be readmitted into 
the church. 


November 17. (See QUEEN’s Day.) 
Novum Or’ganum. The great work 
of Lord Bacon. 


Now-a-days. <A corruption of In- 
our-days, J’ now days. (See APRON, 
Nac, NICKNAME, NUGGET, etc.) 


Now-now. Old Anthony Now-now. 
An itinerant fiddler, meant for Anthony 
Munday, the dramatist who wrote City 


Pageants. (Chettle: Kindhart’s Dream, 
1592.) 

No'wheres (2 syl.). (See Mepa- 
MOTHI. ) 


Noyades (2 syl.). A means of exe- 
cution adopted by Carrier at Nantes, in 
the first French Revolution, and called 
Carrier's Vertical Deportation. Some 
150 persons being stowed in the hold of 
a vessel in the Loire, the vessel was 
scuttled, and the victims drowned. 
Nero, at the suggestion of Anice’tus, 


Nucta 


a 


drowned his mother in this same manner, 
(French, xoyer, to drown.) 


Nucta, or miraculous drop which falls 
in Egypt on $t. John’s day (June), is 
supposed to have the effect of stopping 
the plague. Thomas Moore refers to it 
in his Paradise and the Peri. 


Nude. Rabelais wittily says that a 
person without clothing is dressed in 
“ orey and cold”’ of a comical cut, being 
“nothing before, nothing behind, and 
sleeves of the same.’’ King Shrovetide, 
monarch of Sneak Island, was so ar- 
rayed. (Rabelais: Gargantua, iv. 29.) 

The nude statues of Paris are said to 
be draped in ‘‘ cerulean blue.”’ 


Nugget of Gold. Nugget, a di- 
minutive of nig or nog, as logget is of 
log. ‘A nog of sugar’’ (Scotch) is a 
lump, and a “ nugget of gold”’ isa small 
lump. So ἃ ‘‘log of wood”? is a billet 
(Latin, /ignwn), and ‘‘loggets’? (Nor- 
folk) are sticks of toffy cut up into small 
lumps. 

A cozrespondent in Notes and Queries 
says #o0g 15. a wooden ball used in the 
game of shinney. Vg, in Essex, means 
a ‘*piece;’’ anda noggin of bread means 
a hunch. 


Nulla Linea. (Sve LIne.) 


Mulli Secun’dus Club. The Cold- 
stream Guards. 


Numa. The second king of Rome, 
who reduced the infant state to order by 
wise laws. 


Numancia. <A tragedy by Cervan- 
tes, author of Don Quixote, but never 
published in his lifetime, 


Wumber Nip. The gnome king of 
the Giant Mountains. (MJuseus : Popu- 
lar Tales.) 

“She was like one of those portly dowagers in 
Number Nip’s society of metamorphose and tur- 
re Funu: The House in the Ch urchyard, 

Number One. Oneself. 

To take care of number one, is to look 
after oneself, to seek one’s own interest ; 
to be selfish. 


Number of the Beast. “It is the 
number of a man, and his number is Six 
hundred threescore and six ’’ (Rev. xiii. 
18). This number has been applied to 
divers persons previously assumed to be 
Antichrist; as Apostités, Benedictos, 
Diocletian, Evanthas, Julian (the Apos- 
tate), Lampetis, Lateinos, Luther, Ma- 
homet, Mysterium, Napoleon I., Ni- 
ketés, Paul V., Silvester II., Trajan, 


901 


Numbers 


and several others. Also to certain 
phrases supposed to be descriptive of 
the Man of Sin, as Vicar - General of 
God, Arnoume (J venounce), Kakos 
Ode’gos (bad guide), Abinu Kadescha 
Papa (our holy father the pope), ¢.g. :— 


Maso m ὃ t i 5 
40, 1, 70; 40; 5, 300, 10, 200 = 666 
Τὰ ay ib ee i n ο 5 
sv, 1, 300, 5, 10, 50, 70, 200 = 665 


1, ΠΡ © ὦ n i) 5 
Ὧ0, 400, 9, 100, 1, 80, τύ, 6 = 666 


The Nile is emblematic of the year. 


Ne, eat Ly <0 s 
30, 5, 10, 30, 7, 200 = 365 
Numbers (from 1 to 13), theological 
symbols :— 


(1) The Unity of God. 

(2) The hypostatic union of Christ, both God 
and man. 

(3) The Trinity. 

(4) The number of the Evangelists. 

(5) The wounds of the Redeemer: two in the 
hands, two in the feet, one in the side. 

(6) The creative week. 

(7) The gifts of the Holy Ghost (Rey. i. 12). 
Seven times Christ spoke on the cross. 

(8) The number of the beatitudes (Matt. v. 3-11). 

(Ὁ) The nine orders of angels (q.v.). 

(10) The number of the Commandments. 

(11) The number of the apostles who remained 
faithful. 

(12) The original college. 

(13) The final number after the conversion of 
Paul. 


Numbers. 

Army of soldiers. 

Assembly of people. 

Dateh or Caste of bread. 

Bench of bishops, magistrates, ete. 

Bevy of roes, quails, larks, pheasants, 
ladies, ete. 

Board of directors. 

Brood of chickens, ete. 

Catch of fish taken in nets, ete. 

Clunp of trees. 

Cluster of grapes, nuts, stars, ete. 

Collection of pictures, curiosities, ete. 

Company of soldiers. 

Congregation of people at church, ete. 

Covey of game birds, 

Crew of sailors. 

Crowd of people. 

Drove of horses, ponies, beasts, etc. 

Drwn, a crush of company. 

Federation, A trade union, 

Fell of hair. 

Flect of ships. 

Flight of bees, birds, stairs, ete. 

Flock of birds, sheep, geese, etc. 

Forest of trees. 

Galaxy of beauties. 

Gang of slaves, prisoners, thieves, ete. 

Hani of fish caught in a net. 

Head of cattle. 

Herd of bucks, deer, harts, seals, 
swine, etc. 

Hive of bees, 


Regiment, ete. 


Numbers 


902 Nunc Dimnittis 


Host of men. 

JTTouse of senators. 

Legion of ““ foul fiends.”’ 

Library of books. 

Litter of pigs, whelps, ete. 

Menagerie of wild beasts. 

Mob of roughs, wild cattle, ete. 

Multitude of men. In law, more than 
ten. 

Muster of peacocks. 

Mute of hounds. 

Nest of rabbits, ants, etc. ; shelves, 
etc. 
Nursery of trees, shrubs, ete. 

Pack of hounds, playing cards, grouse, 
ete. 

Panel of jurymen. 

Pencil of rays, ete. 

Pile of books, wood stacked, ete. 

Posse (a sheriff’s), Posse (2 syl.). 

Pride of lions. 

Rabble of men ill-bred and ill-clad. 

Liegiment (A) of soldiers, 

Rookery of rooks and seals, also of un- 
healthy houses. 

Rouleau of money. 

School of whales, ete. 

Set of china, or articles assorted. 

Shoal of mackerel. 

Shock of hair, corn, ete. 

Skein of ducks, thread, worsted. 

Skulk of foxes. 

Society (A). Persons associated for 
some mutual object. 

Stack of corn, hay, wood (piled to- 
gether). 

String ot horses. 

Stud of mares. 

Suit of clothes. 

Suite of rooms. 

Swarin of bees, locusts, ete, 

Take ot fish. 

Team of oxen, horses, ete. 

Tribe of goats. 


Numbers. Odd Numbers. ‘Numero 
Deus impare gaudet”’ (Virgil: Eclogues, 
viii. 75). Three indicates the ‘‘ begin- 
ning, middle, and end.’’ The Godhead 
has three persons; so in classic myth- 
ology Hecate had threefold power; 
Jove’s symbol was a triple thunderbolt, 
Neptune’s ἃ sea-trident, Pluto’s a three- 
headed dog; the Fates were three, the 
Furies three, the Graces three, the Hore 
three; the Muses three - times - three. 
‘There are seven notes, nine planets, nine 
orders of angels, seven days a week, 
thirteen lunar months, or 365 days a 
year, etc.; five senses, five fingers on 
the hand and toes on the foot, five 
vowels, five continents, etc. ete. A 
volume might be filled with illustrations 


of the saying that ‘‘ the gods delight in 
odd numbers,”’ (See Opp, NINE.) 


Numbers, 170 consult the Book of 
Numbers is to call for a division of the 
House, or to put a question to the vote. 
(Parliamentary wit.) 


Numbers. Pythagoras looked on 
numbers as influential principles. 

1 is Unity, and represents Deity, 
which has no parts. 

2 is Diversity, and therefore disorder. 
The principle of strife and all evil. 

3 is Perfect Harmony, or the union of 
unity and diversity. 
4 is Perfection. 

(2% 2 = 4). 

5 is the prevailing number in Nature 
and Art. 

6 is Justice (Perfect Harmony being 3, 
which multiplied by Trinity = 6). 

7 is the climacteric number in all 
diseases. Called the Medical Number 
(2 syL). 

2. The Romans dedicated the second month 
to Pluto, and the second day of the month to the 
Manes. They believed it to be the most fatal 
number of all. 

τ 4 and 6 are omitted, not being prime num- 
ee ; 4is the multiple of 2,and ὃ 15 the multiple 
OT oy 

Numerals. All our numerals and 
ordinals up to a million (with one ex- 
ception) are Anglo-Saxon. The one 
exception is the word Second, which is 
French. The Anglo-Saxon word was 
other, as First, Other, Third, ete. Mil- 
lion is the Latin millio (-onis). 

There are some other odd excep- 
tions in the language: Spring, summer, 
and winter are native words, but autumn 
is Latin. The days of the week are 
native words, butthe names of the months 
are Latin. We have dag, monath, 
gear ; but minute is Latin, and hour is 
Latin through the French. 

Numerals (Greek), (See EPISEMoN.) 


Numero. Jfomme de nwnero—that 
is ‘San homme fin en affarres.” M. 
Walckenaer says it is a shop phrase, 
meaning that he knows all the numbers 
of the different goods, or all the private 
marks indicative of price and quality. 


“Tl n'étoit lors, de Paris jusqu’a Rome, 
Galant qui sat si bien lenus ero.” 
La tontaine: Richurd Minutolo. 


Numidicus. Quintus Cecilius Me- 
tellus, commander against Jugurtha, 
of Numidia, about 100 8.6, 


Nunation. Adding V to an initial 
vowel, as Nol for Olfiver], Ned’ for 
Ellfen], Ned for Ed[ ward]. 


Nune Dimittis. The canticle of 
Simeon is so called, from the first two 


It is the first square 


Nunc Stans 903 


Nut-brown Maid 


words in the Latin version (Luke ii. 

29-32), 
Nunc Stans. The everlasting Now. 
“Tt exists in the nunc stans of the schoolmen— 

the eternal Now that represented the conscious- 


ness of the Supreme Being in medizyal thought.” 
—Nineteenth Century, December, 1892, p. 953. 


Nuncu'pative Will. A will or testa- 
ment made by word of mouth. As a 
general rule, no will is valid unless re- 
duced to writing and signed ; but soldiers 
and sailors may simply declare their 
wish by word of mouth. (Latin, z2- 
cupo, to declare.) 


Nunky pays for all. (See Sam.) 


Nuremberg Eggs. Watches. Watches 
were invented at Nuremberg about 
1500, and were egg-shaped. 


Nurr and Spell or Avor and Spill. 
A game resembling trapball, and played 
with a wooden ball called a nurr or 
knor. The ball is released by means of 
a spring from a little brass cup at the 
end of a tongue of steel called a spell or 
spill, After the player has touched the 
spring, the ball flies into the air, and is 
struck with a bat. In scoring, the dis- 
tances are reckoned by the score feet, 
previously marked off by a Gunter’s 
chain. The game is played frequently 
in the West Riding of Yorkshire. 


Nurse an Omnibus (70) is to try and 
run it off the road. This is done by 
sending a rival omnibus close at its heels, 
or, if necessary, one before and one be- 
hind it, to pick up the passengers. Asa 
nurse follows a child about regardless of 
its caprices, so these four-wheel nurses 
follow their rival. 


Nurseries. In the language of horse- 
racing, handicaps for two-year-old 
horses. These horses can be run only 
with horses of their own age, after the 
Ist September ; and before the lst July 
must not run more than six furlongs in 
length. 


Nursery Tales. 


ones :--- 

ARABIAN NIGHTS: Aladdin's Lamp, The Forty 
Thieves, Sinbad the Sailor, and hundreds more. 

CARROLL (Lewis) : Alice in Wonderland, Hunting 
tne Snark, ete. 

D’'AULNOY (Mme.): King of the Peacocks, The 
Blue Bird, and many others. 

FouQquekE. De la Motte: Undine. 

GOLDSMITH (Oliver): Goody Twoshoes. 1765. 

GRIMM : Goblin Tales. 

JOHNSON (Richard) : 
Christendom. 

KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN (Lord Brabourne): 
Stories for Children, etc. 

LE SAGE: The Devil on Two Sticks. 

PERRAULT, Charles (A Frenchman): Blue Beard, 
Little Red Riding Hood, Puss in Boots, Riguet with 
the Tuft, Sleeping Beauty, etc. 

RIDLEY (James): Tales of the Genii. 

SCANDINAVIAN: Jack and the Beanstalk, Jack 
the Giant-killer, and some others. 


Well-known 


The Seven Champions of 


SouTHEY: The Three Bears. 

STRAPAROLA (an Italian): Fortunatus, 
SWIFT (Dean): Gulliver's Travels. 
VILLENEUVE (Mme.) : Beauty and the Beast. 

* It issaid that the old nursery rhyme 
about an old woman tossed in a blanket 
was written as a satire against the French 
expedition of Henry V., and the cob- 
webs to be swept from the sky were the 
points of contention between the King of 
England and the King of France. 


Nut. 4 hard nut to crack. A diffi- 
cult question to answer ; a hard problem 
to solve. (Anglo-Saxon, hnwt, a nut.) 

He who would eat the nut must first 
crack the shell. The gods give nothing 
to man without great labour, or ‘‘ Ni/ 
sine magno vita labore dedit mortalibus.”’ 
“ Qui nuclewn esse vult, frangit nucem” 
(Plautus). In French, ‘‘ 27 faut casser 
le noyau pour en avoir Vamande.”’ Tt was 
Heraclides who said, “Expect nothing 
without toil.” 

Tf you would reap, you also must plough ; 

For bread must be earned by the sweat of the 

brow. E.C. 8. 

Nuts of May. Here we go gather- 
ing nuts of May. <A corruption of 
knots or sprigs of May. We still speak 
of ‘‘love-knots,’’ and a bunch of flowers 
is called a ‘‘ knot.”’ 


Nuts. Heads; so called from their 
resemblance to nuts. Probably ‘ ecrack,’’ 
applied to heads, is part of the same 
figure of speech. 

“To go off their nuts about ladies, 
As dies for young fellars as fights.” 
Sims: Dagonet Ballads (Polly). 

It is time to lay owr nuts aside (Latin, 
Relin'quere nuces). To leave off our 
follies, to relinquish boyish pursuits. 
The allusion is to an old Roman marriage 
ceremony, in which the bridegroom, as 
he led his bride home, scattered nuts to 
the crowd, as if to symbolise to them 
that he gave up his boyish sports. 

That’s nuts to him. A great pleasure, 
a fine treat. Nuts, among the Romans, 
made a standing dish at dessert ; they 
were also common toys for children; 
hence, to put away childish things is, in 
Latin, to put your nuts away. 


Nut-brown Maid. Henry, Lord 
Clifford, first Earl of Cumberland, and 
Lady Margaret Percy, his wife, are the 
originals of this ballad. Lord Clifford 
had a miserly father and ill-natured step- 
mother, so he left home and became the 
head of a band of robbers. The ballad 
was written in 1502, and says that the 
“‘Not-browne Mayd’”’ was wooed and won 
by a knight who gave out that he was a 
banished man. After describing the 


Nutcrack Night 904 


Oak 


hardships she would have to undergo if 
she married him, and finding her love 
true to the test, he revealed himself to 
be an earl’s son, with large hereditary 
estates in Westmoreland. (Perey: Lte- 
liques, series 11.) 

Nutcrack Night. All Hallows’ Eve, 
when it is customary in some places to 
crack nuts in large quantities. 


Nutcrackers. The 3rd Foot; so 
called because at Albue’ra they cracked 
the heads of the Polish Lancers, then 
opened and retreated, but in a few 
minutes came again into the field and 
did most excellent service. Now called 
“The East Kent.”’ 


Nutshell. Zhe Iliad in a nutshell. 
Pliny tells us that Cicero asserts that 
the whole Iliad was written on a piece 
of parchment which might be put into 
a nutshell. Lalanne describes, in his 
Curiosités Bibliographiques, an edition 
of Rochefoucault’s JMZazxims, published 
by Didot in 1829, on pages one inch 
square, each page containing 26 lines, 
and each line 44 letters. Charles Toppan, 
of New York, engraved on a plate one- 
eighth of an inch square 12,000 letters, 
The Iliad contains 501,930 letters, and 
would therefore occupy 42 such plates 
engraved on both sides. Huet has proved 
by experiment that a parchment 27 by 
21 centimétres would contain the entire 
Iliad, and such a parchment would go 
into a common-sized nut ; but Mr. Top- 
pan’s engraving would get the whole 
Tliad into half that size. George P. 
Marsh says, in his Lectwres, he has seen 
the entire Arabic Koran in. a parchment 
roll four inches wide and half an inch in 
diameter. (See IttaD.) 

To lie in a nutshell. To be explained 
in a few words; to be capable of easy 
solution. 


Nym (Corporal). One of Falstaff’s 
followers, and an arrant rogue. ¢Nim is 
to steal. (Merry Wives of Windsor.) 

Ny’se (2 syl.). One of the Nereids 
(q.0.). 

“ The lovely Nysé and Neri’né spring, 
With all the yehemence and speed of wing.” 
Camoens; Lusiud, bk, il, 


oO 
_ ©. This letter represents an eye, and 
is called in Hebrew ain (an eye). 
Ο. The fifteen O's are fifteen prayers 
beginning with the letterO. (See Hore 
Beatissime Virginis Marie.) 


The Christmas O's. For nine days 
before Christmas (at 7 o’clock p,m.) are 
seven antiphones (3 syl.), each beginning 
with O, as O Sapientia, O Radix, etc. 


o’. An Irish patronymic. 
ogha; Trish, oa, a descendant.) 


(Gaelic, 


O’, in Scotch, means ‘‘ of,’’ as ‘‘ Tam- 
o’-Shanter.”’ 


O.H.M.S. On His [or Her] Majesty's 
Service. 


O.K. A telegraphic symbol for ‘“ All 
right”? (orl korrect, a Sir William 
Curtis’s or Ar’temus Ward’s way of 
spelling ‘all correct’). 


O. P. Riot (Old Price Riot). When 
the new Covent Garden theatre was 
opened in 1809, the charges of admission 
were increased; but night after night 
for three months a throng crowded the 
pit, shouting ‘‘ O. P.”’ (old prices) ; much 
damage was done, and the manager was 
obliged at last to give way. 


O tem'pora! O mores! Alas! how 
the times have changed for the worse! 
Alas! how the morals of the people are 
degenerated ! 


O Yes! O Yes! 
oyez (hear ye). 
“Fame with her loud'st O yes ! 
Cries, ‘ This is he.’” 
Shakespeare: Tvoilus and Cressida, iy. 5. 
Oaf. A corruption of owph (elf), A 
foolish child or dolt is so called from the 
notion that all idiots are changelings, left 
by the fairies in the place of the stolen 
ones. 
“This guiltless oaf his vacancy of sense 
Supplied, and amply too, by innocence.” 
Byron: Verses found in a Summer-house. 
Oak. Worn on May 29th. May 29th 
was the birthday of Charles 11. It 
was in the month of September that he 
concealed himself in an oak at Boscobel. 
The battle of Worcester was fought on 
Wednesday, September 3rd, 1651, and 
Charles arrived at Whiteladies, about 
three-quarters of a mile from Boscobel 
House, early the next morning. He re- 
turned to England on his birthday, when 
the Royalists displayed a branch of oak 
in allusion to his hiding in an oak-tree. 
To sport one’s oak. To be ““ποῦ at 
home”? to visitors. At the Universities 
the ‘‘chambers’’ have two doors, the 
usual room-door and another made of 
oak, outside it ; when the oak is shut or 
“sported”? it indicates either that the 
occupant of the room is out, or that he 
does not wish to be disturbed by visitors. 


O Yes! French, 


Oak and Ash 905 


Oaks 


Oak and Ash. The tradition is, if 
the oak gets into leaf before the ash we 
may expect a fine and productive year ; 
if the ash precedes the oak in foliage, 
we may anticipate a cold summer and 
unproductive autumn. In the years 
1816, 1817, 1821, 1823, 1828, 1829, 1830, 
1838, 1840, 1845, 1850, and 1859, the ash 
was in leaf a full month before the oak, 
and the autumns were unfavourable. 
In 1831, 1838, 1839, 1853, 1860, the two 
species of trees came into leaf about the 
same time, and the years were not re- 
markable either for plenty or the re- 
verse ; whereas in 1818, 1819, 1820, 1822, 
1824, 1825, 1826, 1827, 1833, 1834, 1835, 
1836, 1837, 1842, 1846, 1854, 1868, and 
1869, the oak displayed its foliage 
‘several weeks before the ash, and the 
summers of those years were dry and 
warm, and the harvests abundant. 


Oak-tree. (See PHILEMON.) 

The oak-tree was consecrated to the god 
of thunder because oaks are said to be 
more likely to be struck by lightning 
than other trees. 


Oaks (The). One of the three great 
classic races of England. The Derby 
and Oaks are run at Epsom. and the St. 
Leger at Doncaster. The Oaks, in the 
parish of Woodmanstone, received its 
name from Lambert’s Oaks, and an 
inn, called the ‘‘ Hunter’s Club,’’? was 
rented of the Lambert family, It after- 
wards became the residence of General 
Burgoyne, from whom it passed to the 
llth Earl of Derby. It was Edward 
Smith Stanley, 12th Earl of Derby, who 
originated the Oak Stakes, May 14, 1779. 
On his death, in 1834, the estate was 
sold to Sir Charles Guy, and was then 
held by Joseph Smith. The Oaks Stakes 
are for fillies three years old. (See 
DERBY. ) 


Oaks Famous in Story. 

(1) Owen Glendower’s Oak, at Shelton, 
near Shrewsbury, was in full growth in 
1403, for in this tree Owen Glendower 
witnessed the great battle between 
Henry IV. and Henry Percy. Six or 
eight persons can stand in the hollow of 
its trunk. Its girth is 40} feet. 

(2) Cowthorpe Oak, near Wetherby, in 
Yorkshire, will hold seventy persons in 
its hollow. Professor Burnet states its 
age to be 1,600 years. 

(9) Fairlop Oak, in Hainault Forest, 
was 36 feet in circumference a yard 
from the ground. It was blown down 
in 1820. 


(4) The Oak of the Partisans, in Parcy | 


Forest, St. Ouen, in the department of 
the Vosges, is 107 feet in height. It is 
700 years old. (1895.) 

(5) The Bull Oak, Wedgenock Park, 
was growing at the time of the Conquest. 

(6) The Winfarthing Oak was 700 
years old at the time of the Conquest. 

(7) William the Conquerors Oak, in 
Windsor Great Park, is 38 feet in girth. 

(8) Queen’s Oak, Huntingfield, Suttolk, 
is so named because near this tree 
Queen Elizabeth shot a buck. 

(9) Sir Philip Sidney's Oak, near 
Penshurst, was planted at his birth in 
1554, and has been memorialised by Ben 
Jonson and Waller. 

(10) The Ellerslie Oak, near Paisley, 
is reported to have sheltered Sir William 
Wallace and 300 of his men. 

(11) The Swilear Oak, in Needwood 
Forest, Staffordshire, is between 600 and 
700 years old. 

(12) The Adbbot’s Oak, near Woburn 
Abbey, is so called because the Woburn 
abbot was hanged on one of its branches, 
in 1537, by order of Henry VIII. 

(13) The Major Oak, Sherwood Forest, 
Edwinstowe, according to tradition, was 
a full-grown tree in the reign of King 
John. The hollow of the trunk will 
hold 15 persons, but of late years a new 
bark has considerably diminished the 
opening. Its girth is 37 or 38 feet, and 
the head covers a circumference of 240 
feet. 

(14) The Parliament Oak, Clipston, 
in Sherwood Forest, Notts, is the tree 
under which Edward I., in 1282, held 
his parliament. He was hunting in the 
forest, when a messenger came to tell 
him of the revolt of the Welsh. He 
hastily feconvened his nobles under the 
oak, and it was resolved to march at 
once against Llewellyn, who was slain. 
The oak is still standing (1895), but is 
supported by props. 

(15) Robin Hood’s Larder is an oak in 
that part of Sherwood Forest which 
belongs to the Duke of Portland. The 
tradition is that Robin Hood, the great 
outlaw, used this oak, then hollow, as 
his larder, to put the deer he had slain 
out of sight. Not long ago some school- 
girls boiled their kettle in the hollow of 
the oak, and burnt down a large part ; 
but every effort has been made to pre- 
serve what remains from destruction. 

(16) ‘whe Reformation Oal:, on Mouse- 
hold Heath, near Norwich, is where the 
the rebel Ket held his court in 1549, and 
when the Rebellion was stamped out, 
nine of the ringleaders were hanged on 
this tree. 


Oakum 906 


Oberthal 


Oakum. Untwisted rope; used for 
caulking the seams ({.6. spaces between 
the planks) of a ship. It is forced in by 
chisel and mallet. 

To pick oakwn. To make oakum by 
untwisting old ropes. A common em- 
ployment in prisons and workhouses. 


Oan'nes. The Chaldean sea-god. It 
had a fish’s head and body, and also a 
human head; a fish’s tail, and also feet 
under the tail and fish’s head, In the 
day-time he lived with men to instruct 
them in the arts and sciences, but at 
night retired to the ocean. Anedotés or 
Idotion was a similar deity, so was the 
Dagon [dag-On, fish On] of the Philis- 
tines. 

Oar. To put your oar into my boat. 
To interfere with my affairs. ‘* Paddle 
your own canoe, and don’t put your 
oar into my boat.’? ‘* Bor homme, 
garde ta vache”? ‘Never scald your 
lips with another man’s porridge”’ 
(Scotch). ‘‘Croyez moi chacun son metier, 
et les vaches sont bien gardées.”’ 

MY T put my oar in no man’s boat.”’—Thackeray. 


Oars. 170 rest on one’s oars. To take 
an interval of rest after hard work, A 
boating phrase. 


To toss the oars. To raise them ver- 


tically, resting on the handles. Itisa 
form of salute. 
Oasis. 4 perfect o'asis. A fertile 


spot in the midst of a desert country, a 
little charmed plot of land. The refer- 
ence is to those spots in the desert of 
Africa where wells of water or small 
lakes are to be found, and vegetation is 
pretty abundant. (Coptic word, called 
by Herodotos azasis.) ς 


Oath. The sacred oath of the Persians 
is By the Holy Grave—i.e. the Tomb of 
Shah Besa’de, who is buried in Casbin. 
(Strut.) 

Oaths. Rhadamanthus imposed on 
the Cretans the law that men should not 
swear by the gods, but by the dog, ram, 
goose, and plane-tree. Hence Socrates 
would not swear by the gods, but by the 
dog and goose. 


Oats. He has sown his wild oats. He 
has left off his gay habits and is become 
steady. The thick vapours which rise 
on the earth’s surface just before the 
lands in the north burst into vegetation, 
are called in Denmark Lok kens havre 
(Loki’s wild oats). When the fine 
weather succeeds, the Danes say, ‘‘ Loki 
has sown his wild oats.” 


Ob. and Sol. Objection and solution. 


Contractions formerly used by students 
in academical disputations. 


Obadi'ah. A 
Quaker. 

Obadiah. One of the servants of Mr. 
Shandy. (Sterne: Tristram Shandy.) 


Obam’bou. The devil of the Camma 
tribes of Africa. Itis exorcised by noise 
like bees in flight. 


Obelisk. (Sec DaccER.) 


Ob’elus. A small brass coin (neariy 
ld. in value) placed by the Greeks in 
the mouth of the dead to pay Charon 
for ferrying the body over the river 
Styx. Same as οὐδίοβ, an obol. 


Obermann. The impersonation of 
high moral worth without talent, and the 
tortures endured by the consciousness of 
this defect. (ktienne Pivert de Se'nan- 
cour : Obermann.) 


O'beron. King of the Fairies, whose 

wife was Titan’ia. Shakespeare intro- 
duces both O’beron and Titan’'ia, in his 
Midsummer Night's Dream. (Auberon, 
anciently -Alberon, German Alberich, 
king of the elves.) 
- Oberon the Fay. A humpty dwarf 
only three feet high, but of angelic face, 
lord and king of Mommur. He told Sir 
Huon his pedigree, which certainly is 
very romantic. The lady of the Hidden 
Isle (Cephalo’nia) married Neptane’bus, 
King of Egypt, by whom she had a son 
called Alexander the Great. Seven 
hundred years later Julius Cesar, on his 
way to Thessaly, stopped in Cephalonia, 
and the same lady, falling in love with 
him, had in time another son, and that 
son was Oberon, At his birth the fairies 
bestowed their gifts—one was insight 
into men’s thoughts, and another was 
the power of transporting himself to any 
place instantaneously. He became a 
friend to Huon (q¢.v.), whom he made 
his successor in the kingdom of Mommur. 
In the fulness of time, falling asleep in 
death, legions of angels conveyed his 
soul to Paradise. (Hon de Bordeaux, 
a romance.) 


Oberthal (Count). Lord of Dor- 
drecht, near the Meuse. When Bertha, 
one of his vassals, asked permission to 
marry John of Leyden, the count re- 
fused, resolving to make her his mistress, 
This drove John into rebellion, and he 
joined the Anabaptists. The count was 
taken prisoner by Gio’na, a discarded 
servant, but liberated by John. When 
John was crowned Prophet-king, the 
count entered his banquet-hall to arrest 


slang name for a 


Obidah 


907 Odd Numbers 


him, and perished with John in the 
flames of the burning palace. (Meyer- 
beer: Le Prophete, a romance.) 


Obi‘dah. Anallegory in the Rambler, 
designed to be a picture of human life. 
It is the adventures and misfortunes 
which a young man named ΟΡ Δ} met 
with ina day’s journey. 


Obidicut. The fiend of lust, and one 
of the five that possessed ‘‘ poor Tom.”’ 
(Shakespeare : King Lear, iv. 1.) 

O'biism. Serpent-worship. 
Egyptian Ob (the sacred serpent). The 
African sorceress is still called Oi. The 
Greek ophis is of the same family. 
Moses forbade the Israelites to inquire 
of Ob, which we translate wizard. 


Ob'iter dictum (Latin). An inci- 
dental remark, an opinion expressed by 
a judge, but not judiciously. An obiter 
dic'um has uo authority beyond that of 
deference to the wisdom, experience, 
and honesty of the person who utters 
it; but a judicial sentence is the verdict 
of a judge bound under oath to pro- 
nounce judgment only according to law 
and evidence. 


From 


Object means forecast, or that on 
which you employ forecast. (Latin, οὐ 


jacio.) 
Ovd’olus. Give an ob'olus to old Beli- 
swrvius. Tzetzes, a writer of the twelfth 


century, says that Belisarius, stripped of 
all his wealth and honours, was reduced 
to beggary in his grey old age; that he 
lived in a mud hut, from the window of 
which he hung an alms-bag, and that he 
used to cry to the passers-by, ‘‘ Give an 
ob’olus to poor old Belisa’rius, who rose 
by his merits and was cast down by 
envy.”’ 

Obsequies are the funeral honours, 
or those which follow a person deceased. 
(Latin, 0)-sequor.) 


Obstacle Race (47). 
obstacles such as gates, nets, sails laid 
on the ground, through hoops or tubs, 
etc. 


Obstinate. The name of an inhab- 
itant of the City of Destruction, who ad- 
vised Christian to return to his family, 
and not run on fools’ errands, (Bunyan : 
Pilgrim’s Progress, pt. i.) 

Obverse (1716). Of a coin or medal. 
That side which contains the principal 
device. Thus, the obverse of our money 
coin is the side which contains the 
sovereign’s head. The other side is 
called the ‘‘ reverse.”’ 


A race over ' 


Oby. Ariver in Russia. The word 
means Great River. Thomson the poet 
says it is the wltima thulé of the habit- 
able globe. 


Occam (JVi/liam of), surnamed Doctor 
Singula' ris et Invincil'ilis. He was the 
great advocate of Nominalism. (1270- 
1347.) 

Occam’s Razor. Lytia non sunt 
multiplicanda (entities are not to be 
multiplied). With this axiom Occam 
dissected every question as with a 
razor. 

Occasion. A famous old hag, quite 
bald behind. Sir Guyon seized her by 
the forelock and threw her to the ground. 
Still she railed and reviled, till Sir Guyon 
gagged her with an iron lock; she then 
began to use her hands, but Sir Guyon 
bound them behind her. (Spenser : 
Faérie Queene, book ii.) 


Occult Sciences. Magic, alchemy, 
and astrology; so called because they 
were occult or mysteries (secrets). 


Oce'ana. An ideal republic by James 
Harrington, on the plan of Plato’s At- 
lantis. Also the title of one of James 
Anthony Froude’s books, 


Ochiltree (dic). A gaberlunzie 
man or blue-coat beggar, in Sir Walter 
Scott’s Antiquary. The original of this 
bedesman was Andrew Gemmelles. 


Octa’vian. Chief character of The 
Mountaineers, a drama by George Col- 
man. He goes mad out of love for 
Donna Floranthe, whom he suspects of 
loving another ; but Roque, a blunt old 
attaché, seeks him, tells him Floranthe 
is faithful, and induces him to return. 


Octa'vo. A book where each sheet 
of paper is folded into eight leaves; 
contracted thus—8vo. (Italian, 2’ ot- 
tavo; French, in octavo; Latin, octo, 
eight.) 


Oc'ypus, son of Podalir’ius and As- 
ta’sia, was eminent for his strength, 
agility, and beauty; but used to deride 
those afflicted with the gout. This pro- 
voked the anger of the goddess who 
presided over that distemper, and she 
sent it to plague the scoffer. (Lucian.) 


Od. (See ODYLE.) 


Odd Numbers. Luci: in odd num- 
bers. A major chord consists of a funda- 
mental or tonic, its major third, and its 
just fifth. According to the Pytha- 
gore’an system, “all nature is a har- 
mony,’’ man is a full chord; and all 


’ 


Odd 


908 


Odorico 


— 


beyond is Deity, so that mine represents 
deity. Asthe odd numbers are the funda- 
mental notes of nature, the last being 
deity, it will be easy to see how they 
came to be considered the great or lucky 
numbers. In China, odd “numbers be- 
long to heaven, and νιν. (See Drapa- 
son, NUMBER.) 

“Good luck lies in odd numbers, .. They say, 
there is divinity in odd numbers, ὁ ither in nativ— 
ity, chance, or death,”—Shakespeare: Merry Wives 
of Windsor, v.1. 

* No doubt the odd numbers 1, 3, 

7, 9, playa far more important parethan 
the even numbers. Ove is Deity, thrce 
the Trinity, five the chief division (sce 
Five), seven is the sacred number, and 
nine is three times three, the great clim- 
acteric. 

Oddand Even. According to Pytha- 
goras, by the number of syllables in a 
man’s name, the side of his infirmity 
may be predicted; odd being left, even 
being right. 

Thus, to give only one or two examples: 
Nelson (even) lost his right arm and right eye. 
Rawian (even) lost his right arm at Waterloo. 
The fancy is quite worthless, but might afford 
anusement ona Winter's night. 

Odd’s or Od’s, used in oaths ; as— 

Odd’s bodikins | or Odsbody ! means 
“ God’s body,’’ of course referring to 
incarnate Deity. 

Od’s heart ! God's heart. 

Od’s pittikins! God’s pity. 

Od’s plessed will! (Merry Wives of 
Windsor, i. 1.) 

Od rot ’em! (Sce DRAT.) 

Od-zounds ἢ God’s wounds. 


Odds. By long odds. By a great 
difference ; 2s, “He is the best man by 
long odds.’”? A phrase used by betting 
men. In ee -racing, odds are offered 
in bets on favourite horses; so, in the 
Cambridge and Oxford races, long odds 
are laid on the boat which is expected 
to win. 

That makes no odds. WNo difference ; 
never mind; that is no excuse. An 
application of the betting phrase. 


Ode. Prince of The Ode. Pierre de 
Ronsard, a French lyrist. (1524-15835. ) 


Odherir. The mead or nectar made 
of Kvasir’s blood, kept in three jars. 
The second of these jars is called Sohn, 
and the Boi. Probably the nectar is 
the ‘‘spirit of poetry.” (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

Odin. Chief god of the Scandina- 
vians, 

His veal name was Siggé, son of Fri- 

dulph, but he assumed the name of Odin 
when he left the Tanais, because he had 


been priest of Odin, sepreme god of the 
Scythians. He became the All-wise by 
drinking from Mimer’s fountain, but 
purchased the distinction at the cost of 
one eye. His one eye is the Sun. 

The father of Odin was Bor. 

His brothers are Vilé and Ve. 

His wife is Frigga. 

His sons, Thor and Balder. 

His mansion is Gladsheim. 

His seat, Valaskjalf. 

His court as war-god, Valhalla. 

His fall, Einherian. 

His two black vavens are Hugin 
(thought) and Munin (memory). 

His stved, Sleipnir (q¢.v.). 

His ships, Skidbladnir and Naglfar. 

His spear, Gungner, which never fails 
to hit the mark aimed at. 

His ving, Draupner, which every ninth 
night drops eight other rings of equal 
value. 

His throne is Hlidskjalf. 

His wolves, Geri and Freki. 

He will be ultimately swallowed up by 
the wolf Fenris or Fenrir. (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

The vow of Odin, A matrimonial or 
other vow made before the ‘‘ Stone of 
Odin,” in the Orkneys. This is an oval 
stone, with a hole in it large enough 
to admit a man’s hand, Anyone who 
violated a vow made before this stone 
was held infamous. 


O'dium Theolog’icum. The bitter 
hatred of rival religionists. No wats so 
sanguinary as holy wars; no persecutions 
so relentless as religious persecutions ; 
no hatred so bitter as theological hatred. 


O'Doherty (Sir Morgan). Papers 
contributed to Blackwood’s Magazine by 
William Maginn’, LL.D., full of wit, 
fun, irony, and eloquence. (1819-1842.) 


Odor Lucri (Latin). The sweets of 
gain; the delights of money-making. 

“Tvery act of such a person is seasoned with the 
odor lueri.’ —Sir Walter Scott: The Betrothed 
(Introducticn), 

Odori'co (in Orlando Fuvio’so). 
Bisecayan, to whom Zerbi'uo commits 
Isabella. He proves a traitor and tries 
to ravish her, but, being interrupted by 
a pirate crew, flies for safety to Al- 
phonzo’s court. Here Almo’nio defies 
him, and overcomes him in single com- 
bat. King Alphonzo gives the traitor 
to the conqueror, and he is delivered 
bound to Zerbino, who awards him as 
a punishment to attend Gabri’na for one 
year as her champion, and to defend 
her against every foe. He accepts the 
charge, but hangs Gabrina to an elm, 


Odour 


Almonio in turn hangs Odorico to an 
elm. 


Odour. Jn good odour ; in bad odour. 
In favour, out of favour; in good 
repute, in bad repute. The phrases 
refer to the ‘‘ odour of sanctity’ (7.7.). 


Odour of Sanctity (/7 the). The 
Catholies tell us that good persons die in 
the *‘odour of sanctity ;’? and there is 
a certain truth in the phrase, for, when 
one honoured by the Church dies, it is 
not unusual to perfume the room with 
incense, and sometimes to embalm the 
body. Homer tells us (liad, xxiii.) 
that Hector’s body was washed with 
rose- water. In Egypt the dead are 
washed with rose-water and perfumed 
with incense (Waillet : Letters, x. Ὁ. 88). 
Herodstos says the same thing (History, 
ii. 86-90). When the wicked and those 
hated die, no such care is taken of them. 

“In both the Greek and Western Chureh in- 
cense is used, and the aroma of these consecrated 
oils follows the believer from birth to death.’— 
Nineteenth Century, April, 1894, p. 584. 

~ The Catholic notion that priests 
bear about with them an odour of 
sanctity may be explained in a similar 
manner: they are so constantly present 
when the censers diffuse sweet odour, 
that their clothes and skin smell of the 
incense. 

Shakespeare has a strong passage 
on the disodour of impiety. Antidchus 
and his daughter, whose wickedness 
abounded, were killed by lightning, and 
the poet says :— 

“A fire from heaven came and shrivelled up 

Their bodies, e’en to loathing; for they so 

stunk 

That all those eyes adored them ere their fall 

Scorned now their hand should give them 

burial.” Pericles, Prince of Tyre, ii. 4. 

Odrysium Carmen. The poetry 
of Orpheus, a native of Thrace, called 
Odrysia tellus, because the Od'rys’s 
were its chief inhabitants. 


O’dur. Husband of Freyja, whom he 
deserted. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Od'yle (2 syl.). That which emanates 
from a medium to produce the several 
phenomena connected with mesmerism, 
spirit-rapping, table-turning, and so on. 
The productions of these ‘* manifesta- 
tions’? is sometimes called od'ylism. 
Baron Reichenbach called it Od force, a 
force which becomes manifest wherever 
chemical action is going on. 


Od’yssey. The poem of Homer which 
records the adventures of Odysseus 
(Ulysses) in his home-voyage from Troy. 
The word is an adjective formed cut of 


909 


Off-hand 


the hero’s name, and means the things 
or adventures of Ulysses. 


@’dipus. J anno Edipus. I cannot 
guess what you mean. (&dipus guessed 
the riddle of the Sphinx, and saved 
Thebes from her ravages. (See SPHINX.) 


Gil. 4 /wil. On credit, for nothing. 
Corruption of the Italian a wffo (gratis). 
In the French translation of Don Quixote 
is this passage :— 

“Ma femme, disait Sancho Panca, ne m‘a jamais 
dit oui que quand il fallait dire non. Or elles sont 
toutes de méme... Elles sont toutes bonnes a 
yendre ... passé cela, elles ne valent pas ce que 
Jai dans l'eil.” 

Gil de Eceuf (Z’). A large recep- 
tion-room (sa//c) in the palace of Ver- 
sailles, lighted by round windows so 
called. The ceiling, decorated by Van 
der Meulen, contained likenesses of the 
children of Louis XIV. (seventeenth and 
eighteenth centuries). 

Les Fastes de { Bil de Bauf. The 
annals of the courtiers of the Grand 
Monarque ; anecdotes of courtiers gener- 
ally. The «il de baeuf is the round 
window seen in entresols, ete. The 
ante-room where courtiers waited at the 
royal chamber of Versailles had these 
ox-eye windows, and hence they were 
called by this name. 


Off (Saxon, of ; Latin, a), from, away). 
The house is a wile offi—i.e. is ‘‘ away” 
or ‘from’? us a mile. The word pre- 
ceding off defines its scope. To be 
‘* well off”? is to be away or on the way 
towards well-being ; to be badly off is to 
be away or on the way to the bad. In 
many cases ‘‘ off’? is part of acompound 
verb, as to cut-off (away), to peel-off, 
to march-off, to tear-off, to take-off, to 
get-off, ete. The off-side of horses when 
in pairs is that to the vigit hand of the 
coachman, the horses on his /eft-hand 
side are called the ‘‘ near’”’ horses. This, 
which seems rather anomalous, arises 
from the fact that all teamsters walk 
beside their teams on the left side, so 
that the horses on the left side are near 
him, and those on the right side are 
farther off. 

He is well off; he is badly off. He 
is in good circumstances; he is strait- 
ened in circumstances, étre bien [or 
mal| dans ses affaires. In these phrases 
“ off’? means fares, ‘he fares well [or 
ill]; his affairs go-off well [or ill]. 
(Anglo-Saxon, of-faran.) 


Off-hand. Without preparation ; im- 
promptu. The phrase, ‘‘in hand,” as, 
ΤῸ was long in hand,’’ means that it 
was long in operation, or long a-doing; 


Off his Head 


910 


Ogygian Deluge 


so that ‘‘ off-hand’? must mean it was 
not ‘in hand.”’ 


Off his Head. Delirious, deranged, 
not able to use his head; so “οἱ his 
feed,’’ not able to eat or enjoy his food, 
The latter phrase is applied to horses 
which refuse to eat their food. 


Off the Hooks. Indisposed and un- 
able to work. A door or gate off the 
hooks is unhinged, and does not work 
properly. Also, dead. 


Off with his Head! So much for 
Buckingham! (Colley Cibber : The 
Tragical History of Richard ILI,, altered 
from Shakespeare. ) 


Offa’s Dyke, which runs from Beach- 
ley to Flintshire, was not the work of 
Offa, King of Mercia, but was repaired 
by him. It existed when the Romans 
were in England, for five Roman roads 
cross it. Offa availed himself of it as a 
line of demarcation that was sufficiently 
serviceable, though by no means tally- 
ing with his territory either in extent 
or position. 


Og, King of Bashan, according to 
Rabbinical mythology, was an antedilu- 
vian giant, saved from the flood by 
climbing on the roof of the ark. After 
the passage of the Red Sea, Moses first 
conquered Sihon, and then advanced 
against the giant Og (whose bedstead, 
made of iron, was above 15 feet long and 
nearly 7 feet broad, Deut. iii. 11). The 
Rabbins say that Og plucked up a 
mountain to hurl at the Israelites, but 
he got so entangled with his burden, that 
Moses was able to kill him without much 
difficulty. 


Qg, in the satire of Absalom and 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is 
Thomas Shadwell, who succeeded Dry- 
den as poet-laureate. Dryden called 
him MacFlecknoe, and says ‘‘ he never 
deviates into sense.’? He is called Og 
because he was a very large and fat 
man. (Part ii.) 


Og’hams. The alphabet in use among 
the ancient Irish and some other Celtic 
uations prior to the ninth century. 


“The oghams seem to have been merely tree- 
runes. The Irish regarded the oghamsasa forest, 
the individual characters being trees (feada), 
while each cross-stroke is called a twig (fleasg).” 
—Tsaac Taylor: The Alphabet, vol. ii. chap. viii. 
p. 225, 

Oghris. The lion that followed Prince 
Murad like a dog. (Croguemitaine.) 


O'gier the Dane (2 syl.). One of 
the paladins of King Charlemagne. 


Various fairies attended at his birth, 
and bestowed upon him divers gifts, 
Among them was Morgue, who when 
the knight was a hundred years old 
embarked him for the isle and castle of 
Av'alon, ‘‘hard by the terrestrial para- 
dise.’”’ The vessel in which he sailed 
was wrecked, and Ogier was in despair, 
till he heard a voice that bade him 
‘“‘fear nothing, but enter the castle 
which I will show thee.’’ So he got to 
the island and entered the castle, where 
he found a horse sitting at a banquet- 
table. The horse, whose name wa3 
Papillon, and who had once been a 
mighty prince, conducted him to Morgue 
the Fay, who gave him (1) a ring which 
removed all infirmities and restored him 
to ripe manhood; (2) a Lethean crown 
which made him forget his country and 
past life; and (3) imtroduced him to 
King Arthur. Two hundred years rolled 
on, and France was invaded by the 
Paynims. Morgue now removed the 
crown from Ogier’s head and sent him 
to defend ‘le bon pays de France.’ 
Having routed the invaders, Morgue 
took him back to Avalon, and he has 
never reappeared on this earth of ours. 
(Ogier le Danois ; a romance.) 

O'gicr the Dane. Represented as the 
Knave of Spades in the French pack. 
He is introduced by Ariosto in his Ov- 
lando Furioso. 


The swords of Ogier the Dane. 
ta’na (the cutter), and Sauvagine. 
Morris: Earthly Paradise, August.) 


Ogleby (Lord). A superannuated 
nobleman who affects the gaiety and 
races of a young man. (Clandestine 
Marriage, by Garrick and Colman the 
Elder.) 


O’gres of nursery mythology are 
giants of very malignant dispositions, 
who live on human flesh. It is an 
Eastern invention, and the word is de- 
rived from the Ogurs, a desperately 
savage horde of Asia, who overran part 
of Europe in the fifth century. Others 
derived it from Orcus, the ugly, cruel 
man-eating monster so familiar to readers 
of Bojardo and Ariosto, The female is 
Ogress. 


O’Groat. (See JoHN 0’ GROAT.) 


Ogyg'ian Deluge. A flood which 
overran a part of Greece while Og'’ygés 
was king of Attica. There were two 
floods so called—one in Beeotia, when 
the lake Copa’is overflowed its banks ; 
and another in Attica, when the whole 


Cur- 
(See 


Oi Polloi 911 


territory was laid waste for two hundred 
years (B.C. 1764). 


Varro tells us that the planet Venus underwent 
a great change in the reign of Ogyges (3syl.). It 
changed its diameter, its colour, its figure, and its 
course. 


 Ogyges Deluge occurred more than 
200 years before Deucalion’s Flood. 


Oi Polloi, properly Hoi Polloi. 
(Greek.) The commonalty, the many. 


In University slang the ‘‘ poll men,’’ 
‘or those who take degrees without 
‘*honours.”’ 


Oignement de Bretaigne (French). 
A sound drubbing. Oignement is a 
noun corruptly formed from hogner. In 
Lyons boys called the little cuffs which 
they gave each other hognes. 

“Frere Eleuthere a trenchoisons, 
Et j’ay orgement de Bretaigne ; 
Qui garist de roigne et de taigne.” 
Le Martyre de δ, Denis, ete., p. 129. 

Oignons d’Egypte. The flesh-pots 
of Egypt. Hence ‘‘vegretter les oignons 
εἰ Egypte,’ to sigh for the flesh-pots of 
Egypt, to long for luxuries lost and 
gone. 

Je plume oignons. I scold or grumble. 
Also peler des oignons in the same sense. 
A corruption of hogner, to scold or 
grumble. 

“ Grifon, Que fais-tu Ἰὰ ἢ 
Braynault. Je plume ongnons.” 
La Quarte Journee du Mistere de la Pass‘on. 


“ Pas ne sayoit ongnons peler.” 
Villon: Ballade ii. 
Oil. 70 strike οἱ]. To make a happy 
hit or valuable discovery. |The phrase 
refers to hitting upon or discovering a 
bed of petroleum or mineral oil. 


Oil of Palms. Money. AHuile is 
French slang for ‘‘money,”’ as will ap- 
pear from the following quotation :— 
“Tl faudra que vostre bourse fasse les 
frais de vostre curiosité ; il fuut de la 
pecune, il faut de Vhuile.’ (La Fausse 
Coquette, τι. 7; 1694.) 


Oil on Troubled Waters. 70 pour 
oil on troubled waters, as a figure of 
speech, means to soothe the troubled 
spirit. ‘A soft answer turneth away 
wrath.”’ 

As a physical fact, Professor Horsford, 
by emptying a vial of oil upon the sea 
in a stiff breeze, did actually still the 
ruffled surface. Commodore Wilkes, 
of the United States, saw the same 
effect; produced in a violent storm off 
the Cape of Good Hope, by oil leaking 
from a whale-ship. 

Origin of the phrase: The phrase is 
mentioned by the Venerable Bede in his 
LKeclesiastical History, written in Latin, 


Old Dominion 


and completed in 735. Stapleton trans- 
lated the book in 1565. St. Aidan, it 
appears, gave his blessing to a young 
priest who was to set out by land, but 
return by water, to convoy a young 
maiden destined for the bride of King 
Oswin or Oswy. St. Aidan gave the 
young man a cruse of oil to pour on the 
sea if the waves became stormy. A 
storm did arise, and the young priest, 
pouring oil on the waves, did actually 
reduce them to a calm. Bede says he 
had the story from ‘‘a most creditable 
man in Holy Orders.”’ 

% St. Aidan died in 694, and Bede 
died in 735. There is no question in 


‘archeology so often asked to be ex- 


plained as this. 


Oil the Knocker (70). To fee the 
orter. The expression is from Racine, 
‘© On wentre point chez li sans graisscr 
le marteau”’ (**No one enters his house 
without oiling the knocker’’). (Les 
Plaideurs.) 


Ointment. Money. From the fable 
De la Vieille qu Oint la Palme au 
Chevalier (thirteenth century). 

“Vole’/bant autem priefa’ti clerici al’/iquem 
ha/beré lega’tum natio’né Roma/num, que un- 
guentis Anglicis, auro scilicet et argento solent 
ad queelibet inclina‘ri.”—Gervais de Canterbury: 
Chronicle; Scriptores decem il., 1533. 

Olaf or Olave (S¢.). The first Christian 
king of Norway, slain in battle by his 
pagan subjects in 1030. He is usually 
represented in royal attire, bearing the 
sword or halbert of his martyrdom, and 
sometimes carrying a loaf of bread, as a 
rebus on his name, which in Latin is 
Holofius or Whole-loaf. (Born 995.) 


Old Bags. John Scott, Lord Eldon; 
so called from his carrying home with 
him in different bags the cases still pend- 
ing his judgment. (1751-1838.) 


Old Blade (4x). “Un vieuxr routier”’ 
(an old stager), meaning one up to snuff. 
(See SNUFF.) 


Old Bona Fide. 
1643-1715). 

Old Boots. Like old boots. Famously. 
“Cheeky as old boots,’’ very saucy. 
‘* He ran like old boots,”’ 7.¢. very fast. 
The reference is to the nursery story of 
the Seven-leagued Boots, old bemg sim- 
ply a word of fondness, as ‘‘ Well, old 
boy,”’ ete. The allusion, suitable enough 
in many phrases, becomes, when used in 
slang, very remotely applicable. 

Old Dominion. Virginia. Every 
Act of Parliament to the Declaration of 


Louis XIV. (1638, 


Old England 


912 


Old as Adam 


Independence designated Virginia “ the 
Colony and Dominion of Virginia.” Cap- 
tain John Smith, in his History of Vur- 
ginia (1629), calls this ‘* colony and do- 
minion”’ Ould Virginia, in contradis- 
tinction to New England, and other 
British settlements. 


Old England. This term was first 
used in 1641, twenty-one years after our 
American colony of New Virginia re- 
ceived the name of New England. 


Old Faith Men. (Sce PHILIPPINS.) 


Old Fogs. The 87th Foot; so called 
from the war-cry ‘‘ Fag-an-Bealach”’ 
(Clear the way), pronounced Faug-a- 
ballagh. The 87th Foot is now called 
“The Royal Irish Fusiliers.” 


Cld Fox. Marshal Soult: so called 
by the soldiers because of his strategic 
abilities and never-failing resources. 
(1769-1851.) (See Fox.) 


Old Gentleman (Z/c). 
a cheating card. 


Old Glery. The United States’ Flag. 
Sir Francis Burdett (1770-1844). 


Old Gooseberry. 170 play [or play 
up| old gooseberry. 'To bea third person ; 
to be de trop. Old Gooseberry is the name 
given to a person accompanying an en- 
gaged couple. 


1d Grog. Admiral Edward Vernon ; 
so called by British sailors from his 
wearing a grogram cloak in foul weather. 
(1684-1757.) 
Old Hands, supernumeraries who 
have been used to the work. ‘‘ New 
hands ”’ are those new to the work. 


Old Harry. The 
Harry.) 


Old Humphrey. The xom-de-pluine 
of George Mogridge, of London, author 
of several interesting books for children. 
(Died 1854.) 


Old Mortality. The itinerant anti- 
quary in Sir Walter Scott’s novel of that 
name. It is said to be a picture of 
Robert Paterson, a Scotchman, who 
pusied himself in clearing the moss from 
the tombstones of the Covenanters. 


Old News. Stale news. Hawker’s 
(or piper’s) news. ‘* Le secret de poli- 
chinelle.”’ 

A pinch for old news, A schoolboy’s 
punishment to one of his mates for tell- 


ing as news what is well known. 


The devil; 


devil. (See 


Old Noll. (See NOLL.) 
Old Noll’s Fiddler. (See FIDDLER.) 


Old Port School. Old-fashioned 
clergymen, who stick to Church and 
State, old port and “ orthodoxy.” 


Old Reeky. (Sce AULD REEKIE.) 


Old Rowley, Charles II. was so 
called from his favourite racehorse. A 
portion of the Newmarket racecourse 15 
still called Rowley Mile, from the same 
horse. 


Old Salt (47). An 
sailor. 


Old Scratch. The devil; so called 
from Schratz or Skratti, a demon of 
Scandinavian mythology. (See NIcK.) 


Old Song. JWent for an old song. 
Was sold for a mere trifle, for a nominal 
sum or price. 


Old Style—New Style. Old Style 
means computed according to the un- 
reformed calendar. New Style means 
computed according to the calendar re- 
formed and corrected by Gregory XIII. 
in 1582. The New Style was introduced 
into England, in 1752, during the reign of 
George II., when Wednesday, September 
2nd, was followed by Thursday, Septem- 
ber 14th. This has givenrise to a double 
computation, as Lady Day, March 25th, 
Old Lady Day, April 6th ; Midsummer 
Day, June 24th, Old Midsummer Day, 
July 6th; Michaelmas Day, September 
29th, Old Michaelmas Day, October 
llth; Christmas Day, December 25th, 
Old Christmas Day, January 6th. 


Old Tom. Cordial gin. Thomas 
Norris, one of the men employed in 
Messrs, Hodges’ distillery, opened a gin 
palace in Great Russell Street, Covent 
Garden, and called the gin concocted by 
Thomas Chamberlain, one of the firm of 
Hodges, ‘‘ Old Tom,”’ in compliment to 
his former master. 


experienced 


Old Women, in theatrical parlance, 
means actresses who take the part of 
“old women.’’ In full companies 
there are first and second ‘‘ old women.” 
The term Old Men is similarly used. 


Old World. So Europe, Asia, and 
Africa are called when compared with 
North and South America (the New 
World). 


Old as Adam. Generally used as a 
reproof for stating as news something 
wellknown. ‘ That’s as old as Adam,”’ 
or was known as far back as the days of 
Adam. (See OLD AS METHUSELAH. ) 


Old as Methuselah 


913 Olindo 


Old as Methuselah. Of great age. 
Methuselah was the oldest man that 
ever lived. (See above.) 


Old as the Hills. ‘‘Old as Panton 
Gates.’’ (See Panton GATES.) 


Old Age Restored to Youth. ‘“‘la 
fontaine de Jouvence fit rejovenir la gent.” 
The broth of Medea did the same. 
Grinding old men young. Ogier’s Ring 
(7.v.) restored the aged to youth again. 
The Dancing Water restores the aged 
woman to youth and beauty. (See 
WATER.) 


Old Dogs will not Learn New 
Tricks. In Latin, ‘‘ Senex psittacus 
negligit fertilam’’ (An old parrot does 
not mind the stick). When persons are 
old they do not readily fall into new 
ways, 

Old Lady of Threadneedle Street, 
The Bank of England, situated in 
Threadneedle Street. So called from a 
caricature by Gilray, dated 22nd May, 
1797, and entitled The Old Lady in 
Threadneedle Street in Danger. It re- 
ferred to the temporary stopping of cash 
payments 26th February, 1797, and one 
pound bank-notes were issued 4th March 
the same year. 


id Man Eloquent. Isocra’tés ; so 
called by Milton. When he heard of 
the result of the battle of Cherone’a, 
which was fatal to Grecian liberty, he 
died of grief, 

“That dishonest victory 
At Clrerone’a. fatal to liberty, 
Killed with report that Old Man Eloquent.” 
Milton: Sonnets. 

Old Man of the Moon (7/ic). The 
Chinese deity who links in wedlock pre- 
destined couples. (See Man IN THE 
Moov.) 

“The Chinese have a firm belief in marriages 
heing made in heaven. <A certain deity, whom 
they call the ‘Old Man of the Moon, links with a 
silken cord all predestined couples."—J. N. Jor- 
dan: Modern Ching (Nineteenth Century, July, 
1385, p. 45). 

Old Man of the Mountain. Hassan- 
ben-Sabah, the sheik Al Jebal, and 
founder of the sect called Assassins 
(Gv). 

Old Man of the Sea. In the story 
of Sinbad the Sailor, the Old Man of the 
Sea, hoisted on the shoulders of Sinbad, 
clung there and refused to dismount. 
Sinbad released himself from his burden 
by making the Old Man drunk, (47ra- 
bian Nights.) 


Oidbuck. An antiquary; from the 
character of Jonathan Oldbuck, a 


53 


whimsical virtuoso in Sir Walter Scott’s 
Antiquary. 


Oldcastle (Six John), called the 
Good Lord Cobham, the first Christian 
martyr among the English nobility 
(December 14th, 1417). 


Old’enburg Horn. A horn long in 
the possession of the reigning princes of 
the House of Oldenburg, but now in the 
collection of the King of Denmark. <Ac- 
cording to tradition, Count Otto of 
Oldenburg, in 967, was offered drink in 
this silver-gilt horn by a ‘‘ wild woman,” 
at the Osenborg. As he did not lke 
the look of the liquor, he threw it away, 
and rode off with the horn. 


Oldest Nation and most ancient of 
all languages. Psammetichus of Egypt, 
wishing to penetrate these secrets, com- 
manded that two infants should be 
brought up in such seclusion that they 
should never hear a single word uttered. 
When they had been thus secluded for 
two years, the boys both cried out to 
the keeper, ‘‘ Becos ! Becos!”’ a Phrygian 
word tor Bread, so Psammetichus de- 
clared the Phrygian language to be 
man’s primitive speech. (See Lan- 
GUAGE.) 

G’/leum Adde Camino. To pour oil 
on fire; to avgravate a Saul under 
pretence of healing it. (JZorace: Satires, 
ii. 3, 321.) 

Olib’rius (47): The wrong man in 
the wrong place, Olib’rius was a Roman 
senator, proclaimed emperor by surprise 
in 472. but he was wholly unsuited for 
the office, 


Olifaunt. Lord Nigel Olifwmt cf 
Glenvarloch, on going to court to present 
a petition to King James I., aroused 
the dislike of the Duke of Buckingham ; 
Lord Dalgarno gave him the cut direct, 
when Nigel struck him, and was obliged 
to seek refuge in Alsatia. After various 
adventureshe married Margaret Ramsay, 
the watchmaker’s daughter. (Sir Valter 
Scott : Fortunes of Nigel.) 

Oligar’chy [olly-gar’-ky]. A govern- 
ment in which the supreme power is 
vested in a class. (Greek, oligos, the 
few ; arché, rule.) 


Clin'do. The Mahometan king of 
Jerusalem, at the advice of his magician, 
stole an image of the Virgin, and set it 
up as a palladium in the chief mosque. 
The image was stolen during the night, 
and the king, unable to discover the 
perpetrator, ordered all his Christian 


Olio 


--- 


subjects to be put to the sword. So- 
fronia, to prevent this wholesale mas- 
sacre, accused herself of the deed, and 
was condemned to be burnt alive. 
Olindo, her lover, hearing of this, went 
to the king and took on himself the 
blame ; whereupon both were con- 
demned to death, but were saved by the 
intercession of Clorinda, (Jerusalem 
Delivered.) 

O’lio or Oglio. A mixture or medley 
of any sort. (Spanish, ol/a, a pot for 
boiling similar to what the French call 
their pot au feu. The olio is the mixture 
of bread, vegetables, spices, meat, etc., 
boiled in this pot.) 


Ol'ive (2 syl.). Sacred to Pallas 
Athe’né. (See OLIVE-TREE.) 

Emerem of (1) Chastity. In Greece 
the newly-married bride wore an olive- 
garland ; with us the orange-blossom is 
more usual. 

(2) Fecundity. The fruit of the olive 
is produced in vast profusion; so that 
olive-trees are valuable to their owners. 
(See ORANGE-BLOSSOMS. ) 

(3) Merit. Inancient Greece a crown 
of olive-twigs was the highest distinction 
of a citizen who had deserved well of his 
country. 

(4) Peace. An olive-branch was 
anciently a symbol of peace. The van- 
quished who sued for peace carried olive- 
branches in their hands. And an olive- 
twig in the hands of a king (on medals), 
as in the case of Numa, indicated a reign 
of peace. 

To hold out the olive branch. To make overtures 
of peace. 

(5) Prosperity. David says, “1 am 
like a green olive-tree-in the house of 
God ”’ (Psalm lii. 8). 

(6) Victory. The highest prize in the 
Olympic games was a crown of olive- 
leaves. 

OriGINn of the olive-tree. The tale is, 
that Athéné (Minerva) and Poseidon 
(Neptune) disputed the honovr of giving 
a name to a certain city of Greece, 
and agreed to settle the question by a 
trial of which could produce the best 
gift for the new city. Athéné com- 
manded the earth to bring forth the 
olive-tree, Poseidon commanded the sea 
to bring forth the war-horse. Athéné’s 
gift was adjudged the better, and the 
city was called Athens, 


Olive Branches. Children of a 
parent. It is a Scripture term: ‘“‘ Thy 
wife shall be as a fruitful vine... thy 
children like olive plants round about 
thy table’? (Psalm exxviii. 3), 


914 Ollapod 


--- ---- 


Oliver. Son and heir of Sir Row- 
land de Boys, who hated his youngest 
brother Orlando, and persuaded him to 
try a wrestling match with a professed 
wrestler, hoping thus to kill his brother ; 
but when Orlando proved victorious, 
Oliver swore to set fire to his chamber 
when he was asleep. Orlando fled to 
the forest of Arden, and Oliver pursued 
him; but one day, as he slept in the 
forest, a snake and a lioness lurked near 
to make him their prey; Orlando hap- 
pened to be passing, and slew the two 
monsters. When Oliver discovered this 
heroic deed he repented of his ill- 
conduct, and his sorrow so interested 
the Princess Celia that she fell in love 
with him, and they were married. 
(Shakespeare: As You Like It.) 


Gliver or Olivier. Charlemagne’s 
favourite paladin, who, with Roland, 
rode by his side. He was Count of 
Genes, and brother of the beautiful 
Aude. His sword was called Haute- 
claire, and his horse Lerrant d’ Espagne. 

A Rowland for an Oliver. Tit for tat, 
guid pro quo. Dr. J. N. Scott says that 
this proverb is modern, and owes its rise 
to the Cavaliers in the time of the Civil 
wars in England. These Cavaliers, by 
way of rebuff, gave the anti-monarchical 
party a General Monk for their Oliver 
Cromwell. As Monk’s Christian name 
was (reorge, it is hard to believe that the 
doctor is correct. (See ROLAND.) 


Oliv’etans. Brethren of ‘‘ Our Lady 
of Mount Olivet,’ an offshoot of the 
Benedictine order, 

Oliv'ia. Niece of Sir Toby Belch, 
Malvo'lio is her steward, Maria her 
woman, Fabian and a clown her male 
servants. (Shakespeare: Twelfth Night.) 

Olivia. A female Tartuffe (φ.1.) in 
Wycherley’s Plain Dealer. A con- 
summate hypocrite, of most unblushing 
effrontery. 


Olia Podri’da. Odds and ends, a 
mixture of scraps. In Spain it takes the 
place of the French pot au feu, into 
which every sort of eatable is thrown 
and stewed. (See Oxto.) Used figura- 
tively, the term means an incongruous 
mixture, a miscellaneous collection of 
any kind, a medley. 


Ollapod. An apothecary, always 
trying to say a witty thing, and looking 
for wit in the conversation of others. 
When he finds anything which he can 
construe into ‘“‘ point’’ he says, ‘‘ Thank 
you, good sir; I owe you one.”’” Hehad 


Olympia 


915 


Omorca 


a military taste, and was appointed 
‘“cornet in the volunteer association of 
cavalry’’ of hisown town. (G, Colman : 
The Poor Gentleman.) 


Olym’pia (in Orlando Furioso). Coun- 
tess of Holland, and wife of Bire’no. 
Cymosco of Friza wanted to force her to 
marry his son Arbantés, but Arbanteés 
was slain. This aroused the fury of 
Cymosco, who seized Bireno, and would 
have put him to death if Orlando had 
not slain Cymosco, Bireno having de- 
serted Olympia, she was bound naked 
to a rock by pirates; but Orlando de- 
livered her and took her to Ireland. 
Here King Oberto espoused her cause, 
slew Bireno, and married the young 
widow. (Bks, iv., v.) 

Olym’piad, among the ancient 
Greeks, was a period of four years, 
being the interval between the celebra- 
tions of their Olympic Games. 


Olympian Jove, or rather Zeus (1 
syl.) Astatue by Phidias, and reckoned 
one of the ‘‘Seven Wonders of the 
World.’? Pausanias (vii. 2) says when 
the sculptor placed it in the temple at 
Elis, he prayed the god to indicate 
whether he was satisfied with it, and 
immediately a thunderbolt fell on the 
floor of the temple without doing the 
slightest harm. 

Φ The statue was made of ivory and 
gold, and though seated on a throne, 
was 60 feet in height. The left hand 
rested on a sceptre, and the right palm 
held a statue of Victory in solid gold. 
The robes were of gold, and so were the 
four lions which supported the footstool. 
The throne was of cedar, embellished 
with ebony, ivory, gold, and precious 
stones. (See MINERVA.) 

It was placed in the temple at Elis 
B.C. 433, was removed to Constantinople, 
and perished in the great fire of a.p. 475, 
It was completed in 4 years, and of 
course the materials were supplied by the 
Government of Elis. 

_ The “ Homer of Sculptors” died in prison, hay- 
ing been incarcerateu on the trumpery charge of 


having introduced on a shield of one of his 
Statues a portrait of himself. 


Olympic Games. Games held by 
the Greeks at Olym’pia, in Elis, every 
fourth year, in the month of July. 


Olympus. On the confines of Mace- 
donia and Thessaly, where the fabulous 
court of Jupiter was supposed to be held. 
It is used for any pantheon, as “" Odin, 
Thor, Balder, and the rest of the 
Northern Olympus.’’ The word means 


all bright or clear. In Greek the word 


is Olumpos. 

O’Lynn (Lian). 
Curvy. ) 

Om. A Sanscrit word, somewhat 
similar to Amen. When the gods are 
asked to rejoice in a sacrifice, the god 
Savitri cries out Om (Be itso). When 
Pravahan is asked if his father has in- 
structed him, he answers Om (Verily). 
Brahmans begin and end their lessons on 
the Veda with the word Om, for ‘‘ unless 
Om precedes his lecture, it will be like 
water on a rock, which cannot be 
gathered up; and unless it concludes 
the lecture, it will bring forth no fruit.’’ 

Om mani padém him. These are the 
first six syllables taught the children of 
Tibet and Mongolia, and the last words 
uttered by the dying in those lands. It 
is met with everywhere as a charm. 


The Persian Gulf. 


Ombre. A Spanish game of cards 
called the royal game of ombre. Prior 
has an epigram on the subject. He 
says he was playing ombre with two 
ladies, and though he wished to lose, 
won everything, for Fortune gave him 
“‘success in every suit but hearts.’’ 
Pope has immortalised the game in his 
Rape of the Lock. 


Omega. The alpha and omega, The 
first and the last, the beginning and the 
end. Alpha is the jist and omega the 
last letter of the Greek alphabet. 


Omens. (See ILL OMENS.) 


Omeyinger Saga. An historical 
tradition of Scandinavia, 


Om’nibus. The French have a good 
slang term for these conveyances. They 
call an omnibus a “‘ Four Banal”? (parish 
oven). 


ἡ Of course, omnibus (for all) is the oblique 
case of omnes (all). Yet Howitt, in his Visits to 
Remarkable Places (1840), says “ Cabs and cars and 
omnibi and stages” (Ὁ. 200). The plural of omni- 
bus is “ omnibuses.” 


Slang for gin. (See 


O'man’s Sea. 


Om’nium (Latin, of all). The par- 
ticulars of all the items, or the as- 
signment of all the securities, of a 
government loan. 


Om/nium Gath’erum. Dog Latin 
for a gathering or collection of all sorts 
of persons and things; a miscellaneous 
gathering together without regard to 
suitability or order. 


Omorca. The goddess who was 
sovereign of the universe when it was 
first created. It was covered with water 


Omphale 916 


Open Air Mission 


and darkness, but contained some few 
animals of monster forms, representa- 
tions of which may be seen in the Temple 
ot Bel. (Berosius.) 

Om'phale (3 syl.). The masculine 
but attractive Queen of Lydia, to whom 
Herculés was bound a slave for three 
years. He fell in love with her, and led 
an effeminate life spinning wool, while 
Om’phale wore the lion’s skin and was 
lady paramount. 


τ The celebrated picture of Hercules spinning 
in the presence of Omphale, by Annibal Carracci, 


" ty 


is in the Farnese Gallery. 


On dit (French). A rumour, a re- 
port; as, ‘‘ There is an on dit on Ex- 
change that Spain will pay up its back 
dividends.”’ 


On the Loose. Dissolute (which is 
dis-solutus), ‘‘ Living on the loose”’ is 
leading a dissolute life, or out on the 
spree, 


On the Shelf. fassé, no longer 
popular, one of the ‘‘ has-beens.’? The 
reference is not to pawns laid on the 
shelf, but to books no longer read, and 
clothes no longer worn, laid by on the 
shelf. 


One-horse System (4). A one- 
sided view; looking at all things from 
one standpoint ; bigotry. 


One-horse Universities. 
local universities. 


“The provincial University of Toronto was 
thrown open to Nonconformists, unluckily not 
before the practice of chartering sectarian in- 
stitutions had heen introduced, and Canada 
had been saddled with ‘ one-horse universities.’ ”’ 
—Prof. Goldwin Smith: Nineteenth Century, July, 
1886, p. 21. 


Petty 


One Step from the Sublime to the 
Ridiculous. Tom Paine said, ‘‘ The 
sublime and the ridiculous are often so 
nearly related that it is difficult to class 
them separately. One step above the 
sublime makes the ridiculous, and one 
step above the ridiculous makes the sub- 
lime again,”’ 


One too Many for Him (7 was). I 
outwitted him; or ‘‘One too much 
for you.”’ 

“You have lost, old fellow ; T was one too much 
for you.’—Gaboriau: The Mystery of Orcival, 
chap. x. 

One Touch of Nature Makes the 
whole World Kin. (Shakespeare: 
Troilus and Cressida, iii. 3.) 

Onion Pennies. Roman coins dug 
up at Silchester; so called from one 
Onion, a giant, who, the country people 
say, inhabited the buried city.  Sil- 
chester used to be called by the British 


Ard-Oneon—i.e. Ardal Onion (the region 
of Einion or Onion). 


Only (Zhe). Jean Paul Friedrich 
Richter (1763-1825). Carlyle says, ‘‘ In 
the whole circle of literature we look 
in vain for his parallel.’”? (German, Der 
Hinzigé.) 

On’slow, invoked by Thomson in his 
Autumn, was Arthur Onslow, the 
Speaker of the House of Commons, 
termed clarwn ae venera'bile nomen. It 
was said of him that ‘his knowledge of 
the Constitution was only equalled by 
his attachment to it.’’ 


Onus (Latin). The burden, the 
blame, the responsibility ; as, ‘‘The 
whole onus must rest on your own 
shoulders.”’ 


O’nus Proban’di. The obligation of 
proof; as, ‘‘The onus probandi rests 
with the accuser.”’ 


Onyx is Greek for a finger-nail ; so 
called because the colour of an onyx 
resembles that of the finger-nail, 


O’pal. From the Greek ops (the eye). 
Considered unlucky for the same reason 
that peacocks’ feathers in a house are 
said to be unlucky. A peacock’s feather, 
being full of eyes, act as spies in a house, 
prying into one’s privacy. Similarly, it 
is unlucky to introduce the eye-stone or 
opal into a house, because it will inter- 
fere with the sanctity of domestic pri- 
vacy. (See CERAUNIUM). 

“ Not an opal 
Wrapped in a bay-leaf in my left fist, 
To charm their eyes with.” 
Ben Jonson: New Inn, i. 6. 

Opal of Alphonso XII. (of Spain) 
seemed to be fatal. The king, on his 
wedding day, presented an opal ring to 
his wife (Mercedes, daughter of the Duke 
of Montpensier), but her death occurred 
soon afterwards. Before the funeral the 
king gave the ring to his sister (Maria 
del Pilar), who died a few days after- 
wards. The king then presented the 
ring to his sister-in-law (the Princess 
Christina, youngest daughter of the Duke 
of Montpensier), who died within three 
months. Alphonso, astounded at these 
fatalities, resolved to wear the ring him- 
self, but died also within a very short 
time. The Queen Regent then attached 
the ring to a gold chain, which she sus- 
pended on the neck of the Virgin of 
Almudena of Madrid. (See Faran 
GIFTS.) 


Open Air Mission. A mission 
founded in 1803. Its agents preach in 


Open Question 917 


Oracle 


the open air, especially at races, fairs, 
and on occasions when large numbers of 
people congregate. 


Open Question (47). A statement, 
proposal, doctrine, or supposed fact, re- 
specting which each individual is allowed 
to entertain his own private opinion. 
In the House of Commons every member 
may vote as he likes, regardless of party 
politics, on an open question. In the 
Anglican Church it is an open question 
whether the Lord’s Supper should be 
taken fasting (before breakfast), or 
whether it may be taken at noon, or in 
the evening. Indubitably the institution 
was founded by Christ ‘‘ after supper ;”’ 
but Catholics and the High Ritualistic 
party insist on its being taken fasting. 


Open Secret (4x). A piece of in- 
formation generally known, but not yet 
formally announced. 

“Tt was an open secret that almost every one 
{fof Lord Palmerston’s ecclesiastical appoint- 
ments] was virtually made by Lord Shaftesbury.” 
— Leisure Hour, 1887. ; 

Open, Ses‘amé. The charm by which 
the door of the robber’s dungeon flew 
open. The reference is to the tale of 
The Forty Thieves, in the Arabian 
Nights. 


“These words were the only ‘open sesame’ to 
their feelings and sympathies.”—E. Shelton. 


“The spell loses its power, and he who should 
hope to conjure with it would find himself as 
much mistaken as Cassim when he stood crying, 
‘Open, Wheat,’ ‘ Open, Barley,’ to the door which 
obeyed no sound but ‘ Open, Sesame.’ ” 


Open the Ball (70). To lead off the 
first dance; to begin anything which 
others will assist in carrying out. 


Ophelia. Daughter of Polo’nius the 
chamberlain. Hamlet fell in love with 
her, but after his interview with the 
Ghost, found it incompatible with his 
plans to marry her. Ophelia, thinking 
his ‘‘strange conduct’? the effect of 
madness, becomes herself demented, and 
in her attempt to gather flowers is 
drowned. (Shakespeare : Hamlet.) 


Opin/icus. A fabulous monster, 
composed of dragon, camel, and lion, 
used in heraldry. It forms the crest of 
the Barber Surgeons of London. 


O’pium-eater (116 English) was 
Thomas de Quincey, author of Confes- 
sions. (1785-1850.) 


Oppidan of Eton. A student not on 
the foundation, but who boards in the 
town. (Latin, oppidwn.) 


Optime (plural, op-ti-més), in Cam- 
bridge phraseology, is a graduate in 


honours below a wrangler. Of course, 
the Latin optimus (a best man) is the fons 
et origo of the term. Optimésare of two 
grades: a man of the higher group is 
termed a senior optimé, while one of the 
inferior class is called ἃ 7,10)" optimé. 


Op'timism, in moral philosophy, is 
the doctrine that ‘‘whatever is, is 
right,’’ that everything which happens 
is for the best. 

O'pus Maus. 
Roger Bacon. 

Opus Op’eran'tis, in theology, means 
that the personal piety of the person 
who does the act, and not the act itself, 
causes it to be an instrument of grace. 
Thus, in the Eucharist, it is the faith 
of the recipient which makes it efficient 
for grace. 


The great work of 


Opus Opera‘tum, in theology, means 
that the act conveys grace irrespectively 
of the receiver, Thus baptism is said 
by many to convey regeneration to an 
infant in arms. 


Or Ever. 
before.) 
“ Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio.” 
Shakespeare: Hamlet, i. 2. 
“Dying or ere they sicken.” 
Macbeth, iy. 3. 
Oracle. The answer of a god or in- 
spired priest to an inquiry respecting 
the future ; the deity giving responses ; 
the place where the deity could be con- 
sulted, ete. 


Oracle. The following are famous 
responses :— 

(1) When Creesus consulted the Del- 
phic oracle respecting a projected war, 
he received for answer, ‘ Cresus Halyn 
penetrans magnum, pervertet opum vim” 
(When Croesus passes over the river 
Halys, he will overthrow the strength of 
anempire). Croesus supposed the oracle 
meant he would overthrow the enemy’s 
empire, but it was his own that he 
destroyed. 

(2) Pyrrhus, being about to make war 
agaiast Rome, was told by the oracle: 
“Aio te, Aacide, Roma'nos vin'cere posse”’ 
(I say, Pyrrhus, that you the Romans 
can conquer), which may mean either 
You, Pyrrhus, can overthrow the Romans, 
or Pyrrhus, the Romans can overthrow 
you. 

(3) Another prince, consulting the 
oracle concerning a projected war, re- 
ceived for answer, “ Jhis redi'bis nun- 
quam per bella peribis”? (You shall go 
shall return never you shall perish by 
the war), Itwill be seen that the whole 


Ere ever. (Saxon, @7, 


Oracle 918 


gist of this response depends on the 
lace of the omitted comma; it may be 

ou shall return, you shall never perish mm 
the war, or You shall return never, you 
shall perish in the war, which latter was 
the fact. 

(4) Philip of Macedon sent to ask the 
oracle of Delphi if his Persian expedition 
would prove successful, and received for 
answer— 


“ The ready victim crowned for death 
Before the altar stands.” 


Philip took it for granted that the 
“ready victim ’’ was the King of Persia, 
but it was Philip himself, 

(5) When the Greeks sent to Delphi 
to know if they would succeed against 
the Persians, they were told—- 

τ“ Seed-time and harvest, weeping sires shall tell 

How thousands fought at Salamis and fell.” 
But whether the Greeks or the Persians 
were to be ‘‘ the weeping sires,’’ depo- 
nent stateth not, nor whether the thou- 
sands ‘‘ about to fall’’ were to be Greeks 
or Persians. (See PUNCTUATION.) 

(6) When Maxentius was about to en- 
counter Constantine, he consulted the 
guardians of the Sibylline Books as to 
the fate of the battle, and the prophetess 
told him, ‘‘ J/lo die hostem Romanorum 
esse periturun,”’ but whether Maxen- 
tius or Constantine was ‘‘ the enemy of 
the Roman people’ the oracle left un- 
decided. 

(7) In the Bible we have a similar 
equivoke: When Ahab, King of Israel, 
was about to wage war on the king of 
Syria, and asked Micaiah if Ramoth- 
Gilead would fall into his hands, the 
prophet replied, ‘‘ Go, for the Lord will 
deliver the city into the hands of the 
king” (1 Kings xxii. 15, 35). Ahab 
thought that he himself was the king re- 
ferred to, but the city fellinto the hands 
of the king of Syria. 

There are scores of punning prophecies 
equally equivocal. 


Oracle (Sir). A dogmatical person, 
one not to be gainsaid. The ancient 
oracles professed to be the responses of 
the gods, from which there could be no 
appeal. 

“Tam Sir Oracle, 
And when I ope my lips let no dog hark.” 
Shakespeure ; Merchant of Venice, i. 1. 

To work the oracle. To induce another 
to favour some plan or join in some 
project, 

_“They fetched a rattling price through Star- 
light’s working the oracle with those swells.”— 
Boldrewood: Robbery under Arms, chap. xii, 

Oracle of the Church (Zhe). St. 

Bernard. (1091-1153.) 


Orange Lilies 


Oracle of the Holy Bottle, Bac- 
bue, near Cathay, in Upper Egypt. 
Books iv. and v. of Rabelais are occu- 
pied by the search for this oracle. The 
ostensible object was to obtain an 
answer to a question which had been 
put to sibyl and poet, monk and fool, 
philosopher and witch, judge and 
“sort,”’ viz. ‘‘ whether Panurge should 
marry or not?’’ The whole affair is a 
disguised satire on the Church. The 
celibacy of the clergy was fora long time 
a moot point of great difficulty, and the 
“* Holy Bottle ’’ or cup to the laity was 
one of the moving causes of the “ great 
schisms’? from the Roman Catholic 
Church, The crew setting sail for the 
Bottle refers to Anthony, Duke of Ven- 
déme, afterwards king of Navarre, 
setting out in search of religious truth. 
Bacbuc is the Hebrew for a bottle. The 
anthem sung before the fleet set sail 
was When Israel went out of bondage, 
and all the emblems of the ships bore 
upon the proverb ‘liz vino veritas.” 
Bacbue is both the Bottle and the 
priestess of the Bottle. 


Oracle of Sieve and Shears (716). 
This method of divination is mentioned 
by Theoc’ritos. The modus operandi was 
as follows:—The points of the shears 
were stuck in the rim of a sieve, and 
two persons supported them with their 
finger-tips. Then a verse of the Bible 
was read aloud, and St. Peter and St. 
Paul were asked if it was A, B, or C 
(naming the persons suspected), When 
the right person was named, the sieve 
would suddenly turn round. 

“Searching for things lost with a sieve and 
shears.’’—Ben Jonson: Alchenvist, i. 1. 

Oracles were extremely numerous, 
and very expensive to those who con- 
sulted them. The most famous were 
Dodona, Ammon (in Libya), Delphos, 
Delos, that of Trophonius (in Beeotia), 
and that of Venus in Paphos, 

Oracle of APOLLO, at Delphi, the priestess of 
mbich was called the Pythoness ; at Delos,andat 
Claros. 

Oracle of Diana, at Colchis ; of ESCULAPIUS, at 
Epidaurus, and another in Rome. 

Oracle of HERCULES, at Athens, and another at 
Gadés. 

Oracle of JUPITER, at Dodona (the most noted) ; 
another at Ammon.in Libya ; another at Crete. 

Oracle of MARs, in Thrace: MINERVA, in My- 
cene ; PAN,in Arcadia. | 3 

Oracle of TRIPHO’NIUS, in Boeotia, where only 
men made the responses. 

Oracle of VENUS, at Paphos, another at Aphaca, 
and many others. 

In most of the temples women, sitting 
on a tripod, made the responses. 


Orange Lilies (7/c). The 35th Foot. 
Called ‘‘orange’’ because their facings 


Orange Lodges 919 


were orange till 1832; and “lilies ’’ be- 
cause they were given white plumes in 
recognition of their gallantry in the 
battle of Quebee in 1759, when they 
routed the Royal Roussillon French 
Grenadiers. The white plume was dis- 
continued in 1800. The 35th Foot is 
now called the ‘‘ The Royal Sussex.”’ 
William of Orange. William IIT. of 
England (1650, 1689-1702). ‘‘ Orange” 
is a corruption of Arausio, in the depart- 
ment of Vaucluse, some sixteen miles 
from Avignon. The town was the capi- 
tal of a principality from the eleventh 
to the sixteenth century. The last 
sovereign was Philibert de Chalons, 
whose sister married William, Count of 


Nassau. William’s grandson (William) 
married Mary, eldest daughter of 


Charles I., and their eldest son was our 
William III., referred to in the text. 


Orange Lodges or (/ubs are referred 
to in Hibernia Curiosa, published in 
1769. Thirty years later the Orange- 
men were a very powerful society, 
having a ‘‘ grand lodge”’ extending over 
the entire province of Ulster, and rami- 
fying through all the centres of Pro- 
testantism in Ireland.”? (See next 
article, and ORANGEMAN.) 

Orange Peel. A nickname given to 
Sir Robert Peel when Chief Secretary 
for Ireland (1812-1818), on account of 
his strong anti- Catholic proclivities, 
(See above, and ORANGEMAN.) 


Orange-tawny. The ancient colour 
appropriated to clerks and persons of 
inferior condition. It was also the 
colour worn by the Jews. Hence Lord 
Bacon says, ‘‘ Usurers should have 
orange-tawny bonnets, because they do 
Judaise’’? (Essay xli.). Bottom the 
weaver asked Quince what coloured 
beard he was to wear for the character 
of Pyr’amus: “1 will discharge it in 
either your straw-coloured beard, your 
orange-tawny beard, your purple-ingrain 
beard, or your French crown-colour, 
whichis a perfect yellow.”? (Midsummer 
Night's Dream, 1, 2. 

Orange Blossoms Worn at Wed- 
dings. The Saracen brides used to 
wear orange blossoms as an emblem of 
fecundity ; and occasionally the same 
emblem may have been worn by Euro- 
pean brides ever since the time of the 
Crusades ; but the general adoption of 
wreaths of orange blossoms for brides is 
comparatively a modern practice, due 
especially to the recent taste for flower- 
language. The subject of bridal de- 
corations being made a study, and the 


Ordeal 


orange flower being found suitable, from 
the use made of it by the ancient Sara- 
cens, it was introduced by modistes as 
a fit ornament for brides. The notion 
once planted, soon became a custom, 
now very generally adopted by thos2 
who study the conventions of society, 


and follow the accepted fashions. (Sve 
OLIVE.) 
To gather orange blossoms. To look 


for a wife. A bride wears orange blos- 
soms to indicate the hope of fruitfulness, 
no tree being more prolific. An orange 
tree of moderate size will yield three or 
four thousand oranges in a year; and 
the blossom being white, is a symbol of 
innocence and chastity. The orange 
was also used by Cardinal Wolsey as a 
pomander. It is said that some sweet 
oranges turn bitter by neglect. 


Orangeman. <A name given by 
Roman Catholics to the Protestants of 
Treland, on account of their adhesion to 
William IIT. of the House of Orange ; 
they had been previously called ‘* Peep- 
of-Day Boys.’’ The Roman party were 


Jacobites. (See ORANGE LODGES.) 
Orania. The lady-love of Am’adis 
of Gaul. 


Orator Henley. The Rev. John 
Henley, who for about thirty years de- 
livered lectures on theological, political, 
and literary subjects. (1692-1756.) 


Orbilian Stick (Z/e). 
birch-rod. 

Orbilius was the schoolmaster who 
taught Horace, and Horace calls him 
Plago'sus (the flogger). (Ep. ii. 71.) 


Ore (in Orlando Furioso). A sea- 
monster that devoured men and women. 
He haunted the seas near Ireland. Or- 
lando threw an anchor into his open 
jaws, and then dragged the monster to 
the Irish coast, where he died. 


A cane or 


Or’ca. The Orkney Islands, or Or- 


cades. 


Or'chard properly means a kitchen 
garden, a yard for herbs. (Saxon, ο)έ- 
geavd—t,e. wort-yard.) Wort enters 
into the names of numerous herbs, as 
mug-wort, liver-wort, spleen-wort, etc. 

“The hortyard entering [he] admires the fair 

And pleasant fruits.” Sandys. 

Or’cus. The abode of the dead; 
death. (Roman mythology.) 


Or’deal (Saxon, great judgment), in- 
stituted long before the Conquest, and 
not abolished till the reign of Henry IIT, 


Ordeal 


Ordeals were of several kinds, but the 
most usual were by wager of battle, by 
hot or cold water, and by fire. This 
method of ‘‘ trial’? was introduced from 
the notion that God would defend the 
right, even by miracle if needful. 

(1) Wager of battle, was when the ac- 
cused person was obliged to fight any- 
one who charged him with guilt. This 
ordeal was allowed only to persons of 
rank. 

(2) Of fire, was another ordeal for 
persons of rank only. The accused had 
to hold in his hand a piece of red-hot 
iron, or had to walk blindfold and bare- 
foot among nine red-hot plough-shares 
laid at unequal distances. If he escaped 
uninjured he was accounted innocent, 
aliter non. 'This might be performed by 
deputy. 

(3) Of hot water, was an ordeal for 
the common people. The accused was 
required to plunge his arm up to the 
elbow in scalding hot water, and was 
pronounced guilty if the skin was in- 
jured in the experiment. 

(4) Of cold water, was also for the 
common people. The accused, being 
bound, was tossed into a river; if he 
sank he was acquitted, but if he floated 
he was accounted guilty. 

(5) Of the bier, when a _ person 
suspected of murder was required to 
touch the corpse; if guilty the ‘‘ blood 
of the dead body would start forth 
afresh.”’ 

(6) Of the eross. Plaintiff and de- 
fendant had to stand with their arms 
crossed over their breasts, and he who 
cou'ld endure the longest won the suit. 

(7) Of the Eucharist. This was for 
clergymen suspected of crime. It was 
supposed that the elements would choke 
him, if taken by a guilty man. 

(8) Of the corsned, or consecrated 
bread and cheese. Godwin, Earl of 
Kent, is said to have been choked when 
he submitted to this ordeal, being 
accused of the murder of the king’s 
brother, 


“This sort of ordeal was by no means unusual. 
Thus in Ceylon, a man suspected of theft is re- 
quired to bring what he holds dearest before a 
pene and placing a heavy stone on the head of 
11S Substitute, says “ May this stone crush thee to 
death if lam guilty of this offence.” 

In Tartary,an ostiack sets a wild bear and an 
hatchet before the tribunal, saying,as he swallows 
a piece of bread, ‘‘ May the bear devour me, and 
the hatchet chop off my head, if lam guilty of the 
crime laid to my charge.” 


(9) Of lot, two dice, one marked by a 
cross, being thrown. 


Ordeal. 
severe test, 


It was a fiery ordeal, A 


(See above, No. 2.) 


9 


20 


Ordinary 


Order! When members of the 
House of Commons and other debaters 
call out Order, they mean that the per- 
son speaking is transgressing the rules 
of the House. 


Order of the Cockle. Created by 
St. Louis in 1269, in memory of a dis- 
astrous expedition made by sea for the 
succour of Christians. Perrot says it 
scarcely survived its foundation. 


Order of the Day (74), in parlia- 
mentary parlance, is applied to the 
prearranged agenda of ‘‘ Private Mem- 
bers’ Bills.” On Tuesdays these bills 
always stand after ‘‘ notices of motions.” 
(See PREVIOUS QUESTION.) 

To move for the Order of the Day isa 
proposal to set aside a government 
measure on a private members’ day 
(Tuesday), and proceed to the pre- 
arranged agenda. If the motion is 
carried, the agenda must be proceeded 
with, unless a motion “ to adjourn ἢ is 
carried. 

Orders. Jn Orders or In Holy Orders. 
Belonging to the clerical order or rank. 

To take Orders. To become a clergy- 
man. 

The word ‘ order’? means ποῦ 
only a mandate, but also an official rank, 
and in the Catholic Church, a ‘‘rule”’ of 
life, as Ordo albus (white friars or Au- 
gustines), Ordo niger (black friars or 
Dominicans). In ‘‘ Holy Orders’? is in 
the plural number, because in the Pro- 
testant Church there are three ranks 
of clergymen — deacons, priests, and 
bishops. In the Catholic Church there 
are four major orders and four minor 
ones. According to Du Cange, the 
Ordinés majorés are Subdeaconatus, 
Deaconatus, Presbyteratus, and Episco- 
palis (Subdeacon, Deacon, Priest, and 
Bishop). 

Orders of Architecture. These five 
are the classic orders: Tuscan, Doric, 
Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite. 

The following was the wsaal practice: 


CORINTHIAN, for temples of Venus, Flora, Pro- 
serpine, and the Water Nymphs. 

Dore, for temples of Minerva, Mars, and Her- 
cules. 

Tonic, for temples of Juno, Diana, and Bacchus. 

TUSCAN, for grottoes and all rural deities. 


Ordigale. The otter in the tale of 
Reynard the Fox (part iii.). 


Or’dinary (47). One who has an 
“ordinary or regular jurisdiction ἢ in his 
own right, and not by deputation. Thus 
a judge who has authority to take cog- 
nisance of causes in his own right is 
an ordinary, A bishop is an ordinary 


Ordinary 


921 


to 


Oriflamme 


in his own diocese, because he has 
authority to take cognisance of eccle- 
siastical matters therein ; but an arch- 
bishop is the ordinary οὐ his province, 
having authority in his own right to 
receive appeals therein from inferior 
jurisdictions. The chaplain of Newgate 
was also called the ordinary thereof. 


Ordinary (47). A public dinner 
where each guest pays his quota; a table 
d’hote. 

“Tis almost dinner; I know they stay for you at 
the ordinary.’—Beaumont and fletcher : Scornful 


Lady, iv. 1. 
Oread (plural, Oréads [3 syl.] or 
Oreades [1 syl. 7): Ny mphs of the 


mountains. (Greek, ὄρος, a mountain.) 


Oreilles. Sir W. Scott (Vaveriey, 
x.) speaks of vinwm prime note thus :— 
ἐς (δὲ des deux oreilles,”’ that is, it is 
strong and induces sleep. It makes one 
“ Dormir sur les deux oreilles.”? Littré, 
however, says, ‘Though wine d’wne 
oreille is excellent, that of deux oreilles 
is execrable.”’ 


“Vin d'une oreille, Je bon vin; vin de deux 
oreilles le mauvais. On appelle, ainsi le bon vin, 
parce que Je bon vin fait pencher la téte de celui 
guile goute dun cote seulement: et le mauvais 
Vin. parce qwon secoue la tete, et par consequent 
le deux oreilles.” 


Orelio. The steed of Don Roderick, 
the last of the Goths, noted for its speed 
and symmetry. (See Horsz.) 


Qrella’‘na. The river Amazon in 
America; so called from Orellana, lieu- 
tenant of Pizarro. 


Orfeo and Heuro’dis. The tale of 
Orpheus and Euryd'icé, with the Gothic 
machinery of elves or fairies. 


Or’gies (2 syl.). Drunken revels, 
riotous feasts; so called from the noc- 
turnal festivals in honour of Bacchus. 
(Greek, orgé, violent emotion.) 


Orgoglio (pron. Or-gole’-yo). The 
word is Italian, and means ‘ Arrogant 
Pride,”’ or The Man of Sin. A hideous 
giant as tall as three men ; he was son 
of Earth and Wind. Finding the Red 
Cross Knight at the fountain of Idleness, 
he beats him with a club and makes him 
his slave. Una, hearing of these mis- 
chances, tells King Arthur, and Arthur 
liberates the knight and slays the giant. 
Moral: The Man of Sin had power 
given him to ‘‘ make war with the saints 
and to overcome them”? for ‘‘ forty and 
two months” (Rey. xiii, ὅ, 7), then the 
“* Ancient of Days came,’’ and overcame 
him (Dan. vii. 21, 22). (Spenser : Faerie 
Queene, book i.) 

* Arthur first cut off Orgoglio’s left 


am—i.c. Bohemia was first cut off from 
the Church of Rome. He then cut oii 
the giant’s right leg—i.e. England ; and, 
this ‘being cut off, the ciant fell to the 
earth, and was afterwards dispatched. 


Or’gon. Brother-in-law of Tartuffe. 
His credulity is proverbial: he almost 
disbelieved his senses, and saw everyone 
and everything through the cov/eu de 
vose of his own honest heart, (Woliere : 


Tartuffe.) 
Oria’na. The beloved of Am‘adis of 
Gaul, who called himself Beltene’bros 


when he retired to the Poor Rock. 
(Aim'adis de Gaul, ii. 6.) 

Queen Elizabeth is sometimes called 
the ‘‘ peerless Oriana,’ especially in the 
madrigals entitled the Zrimmnphs of 
Oriana (1601). 

Oriana. The nurseling of a lioness, 
with whom Esplandian, son of Ona‘na 
and Amadis of Gaul, fell in love, and 
for whom he underwent all his perils 
and exploits. She is represented as the 
fairest, gentlest, and most faithful of 
womankind, 


Oriande [0'-1c-ond]. A fay who 
lived at Rosefleur, and brought up 
Maugis d’Aygremont (¢.v”.). When her 
protégé grew up she loved him ‘‘ @ wz 
si grand amour, quelle doute fort qwil ne 
se départe d’avecques elle.’ (Romance de 
Maugis @Aygremont et de Vivian son 
Frere.) 

Oriel. A fairy whose empire lay 
along the banks of the Thames, when 
King Oberon held his court in Ken- 
sington Gardens. (Zichell: Kensington 
Gardens. ) 


Orientation, The placing of the 
east window of a church due east, that 
is, so that the rising sun may at noon 
shine on the altar. Anciently, churches 
were built with their axes pointing to 
the rising sun on the saint’s day ; so that 
a church dedicated to St. John was not 
parallel to one dedicated to St. Peter. 
The same practice prevailed both in 
Egypt and ancient Greece. 

Modern churches are built as nearly due east 
and west as circumstances will allow, quite re- 
gardless of the saint's day. 

Oriflamme (9 syl.). First used in 
France as a national banner in 1119. It 
consisted of a crimson flag mounted on 
a gilt staff (wn glaive tout doré oie est 
attaché une bannicre vermeille). The flag 
was cut into three ‘‘ vandykes ”’ to repre- 
sent ‘‘ tongues of fire,’ and between 
each was a silken tassel. This celebrated 
standard was the banner of St. Denis; 


Origenists 


922 


Orlando 


but when the Counts of Vexin became 
possessed of the abbey the banner passed 
into their hands. In 1082 Philippe I. 
united Vexin to the crown, and the 
sacred Oriflamme belonged to the king. 
It was carried to the field after the 
battle of Agincourt, in 1410. The 
romance writers say that ‘‘ mescreans”’ 
(infidels) were blinded by merely look- 
ing onit. In the Roman de Garin the 
Saracens are represented as saying, ‘‘ If 
we only set eyes on it we are all dead 
men ”’ (‘‘ Se’s attendons tuit sommes mors 
et pris”). Froissart says it was no 
sooner unfurled at Rosbecq than the fog 
cleared off, leaving the French in light, 
while their enemies remained in misty 
darkness still. (Or, gold, referring to 
the staff ; famme, flame, referring to the 
tongues of fire.) 

Or’igenists. An early Christian 
sect who drew their opinions from the 
writings of Origen. They maintained 
Christ to be the Son of God only by 
adoption, and denied the eternity of 
future punishments. 


Original Sin. That corruption 
which is born with us, and is the in- 
heritance of all the offspring of Adam. 
As Adam was the federal head of his 
race, when Adam fell the taint and 
penalty of his disobedience passed to all 
his posterity. 

Oril’o or Orillo (in Orlando Furioso, 
book viii.). A magician and robber who 
lived at the mouth of the Nile. He was 
the son of an imp and fairy. When any 
limb was lopped off he restored it by his 
magic power, and when his head was 
cut off he put it on his neck again. 
Astolpho encountered him, cut off his 
head, and fled with it. Orillo mounted 
his horse and gave chase. Meanwhile 
Astolpho with his sword cut the hair 
from the head. Life was in one par- 
ticular hair, and as soon as that was 
severed the head died, and the magi- 
cian’s body fell lifeless. 


Orinda, called the ‘‘ Incomparable,”’ 
was Mrs. Katherine Philipps, who lived 
in the reign of Charles 11., and died of 
small-pox. Her praises were sung by 
Cowley, Dryden, and others. (See 
Dryden's Ode To the Memory of Mrs. 
Anne Killigrew.) 

Orion. A giant hunter, noted for 
his beauty. He was blinded by Gino- 
pion, but Vulcan sent Cedalion to be his 
guide, and his sight was restored by ex- 
posing his eyeballs to the sun. Being 
slain by Diana, he was made one of the 


constellations, and is supposed to be 
attended with stormy weather, ‘‘Assur- 
gens fluctu nimbo'sus Orion.”? (Virgil; 
Aineid, i. 539.) 

“ As beautiful as Orion.” omer; Iliad, xviii. 


Wife of Orion, Side. 


Dogs of Orion. Arctoph’onos and 
Ptodph’agos. 


Orkborne (/)7.). Α learned student, 
very dry and uncompanionable; very 
particular over his books, and the tutor 
of Eugenia, the niece of Sir Hugh. He 
is a character in Camilla, the third novel 
of Mme. D’Arblay. Eugenia wasdeformed 
owing to an accident partly caused by 
her uncle; and Sir Hugh, to make the 
best compensation in his power, ap- 
pointed Dr. Orkborne to educate her, 
and also left her heiress to his estates. 

“Mr. Oldbuck hated putting to rights as much 
as Dr. Orkhorne, or any other professed student.” 
—Scott: Antiquary. 

Orkneys. Lither the Teutonic Or/- 
n-eys (the water or islands of the whirl- 
pool), in allusion to the two famous 
whirlpools near the Isle of Swinna ; or 
else the Norwegian Orheyjar (northern 
islands), the Hebrides being the Sudrey- 
jar, ov southern islands. 

Orlando. The youngest son of Sir 
Rowland de Boys. Ata wrestling match 
the banished duke’s daughter, Rosalind, 
who took a lively interest in Orlando, 
gave him a chain, saying, ‘‘ Gentleman, 
wear this for me.’’ Orlando, flying be- 
cause of his brother’s hatred, met Rosa- 
lind in the forest of Arden, disguised ag 
a country lad, seeking to join her father. 
In time they become acquainted with 
each other, and the duke assented to 
their union. (Shakespeare: As You Like 
It.) (See OLIVER.) 

Orlando, called Rotolando or Roland, 
and Rutlandus in the Latin chronicles 
of the Middle Ages, the paladin, was lord 
of Anglant, knight of Brava, son of Milo 
d’ Anglesis and Bertha, sister of Charle- 
magne. Though married to Aldabella, 
he fell in love with Angel'ica, daughter 
of the infidel king of Cathay; but An- 
gelica married Medo’ro, a Moor, with 
whom she fled to India. When Orlando 
heard thereof he turned mad, or rather 
his wits were taken from him for three 
months by way of punishment, and de- 
posited in the moon. Astolpho went 
to the moon in Elijah’s chariot, and St. 
John gave him an urn containing the 
lost wits of Orlando. On reaching earth 
again, Astolpho first bound the madman, 
then holding the urn to his nose, the 
errant wits returned, and Orlando, cured 


Orlando Furioso 


923 Orpheus 


of his madness and love, recovered from 
his temporary derangement. (Orlando 
Furioso.) (See ANGELICA.) 

Orlando or Roland was buried at 
Blayes, in the church of St. Raymond; 
but his body was removed afterwards to 
Roncesvalles, in Spain. 

Orlando’s horn or Roland’s horr. An 
ivory horn called Olivant, mentioned 
frequently by Boiardo and Ariosto. 

“ Per acto bello, Rolandus ascendit in montem, et 
rediit retro ad viam Runciavallis. Tune insonuit 
tuba sua eburnea ; et tanta virtute insonuit, quod 
flatu omnis ejus tuba per medium scissa, et venze 
colli ejus et nervi rupti fuisse feruntur.” 

Orlando’s sword. Durinda’na, which 
once belonged to Hector. 


Orlando Furioso. An epic poem 
in forty-six cantos, by Ariosto (digested 
by Hoole into twenty-four books, but 
retained by Rose in the original form), 
The subject is the siege of Paris by 
Agramant the Moor, when the Saracens 
were overthrown. In the pagan army 
were two heroes—Rodo’mont, called the 


Mars of Africa, and Roge'ro, The latter 
became a Christian convert. The poem 


ends with a combat between these two, 
and the overthrow of Rodomont. 

The anachronisms of this poem are 
most marvellous. We have Charlemagne 
and his paladins joined by King Edward 
of England, Richard Earl of Warwick, 
Henry Duke of Clarence, and the Dukes 
of York and Gloucester (bk. vi.). We 
have cannons employed by Cymosco, 
King of Friza (bk. iv.), and also in the 
siege of Paris (bk. vi.). We have the 
Moors established in Spain, whereas they 
were not invited over by the Saracens for 
nearly 300 years after Charlemagne’s 
death. In book xvii. we have Prester 
John, who died 1202; in the last three 
Constantine the Great, who died 337, 


Orlando Innamora’to (Roland the 
paladin in love). A romantic epic in 
three books, by the Count Boiardo of 
Scandiano, in Italy (1495). 

There is a burlesque in verse of the 
same title by Berni of Tuscany (1538), 
author of Burlesque Rhymes. 


Orleans. Vowr explanation is like an 
Orleans comment—i.e. Your comment or 
explanation makes the matter more ob- 
scure. The Orleans College was noted 
for its wordy commentaries, which dark- 
ened the text by overloading it with 
words. (4 French proverb.) 

Or’mandine (5 syl.). The necro- 
mancer who by his magic arts threw St. 
David for seven years into an enchanted 


sleep, from which he was redeemed by 
St. George. (The Seven Champions of 
Christendom, i. 9.) 

Ormulum,. A paraphrase of Scrip- 
ture in Anglo-Saxon verse; so called 
from the name of the author, Orm or 
Ormin (13th cent.). 


Ormusd or Ormuzd. The principle 
or angel of light and good, and creator 
of all things, according to the Magian 
system. (See AHRIMAN.) 


Oromas'‘des (4 syl.). The first of 
the Zoroastrian trinity. The divine 
goodness of Plato; the deviser of crea- 
tion (the father). The second person is 
Mithras, the eternal intellect, architect 
of the world; the third, Ahrim’anés 
(Psyché), the mundane soul. 


O’roonda'tes. Only son of a Scythian 
king, whose love for Stati’'ra (widow of 
Alexander the Great, and daughter of 
Dari‘us) leads him into numerous dan- 
gers and difficulties, which he surmounts. 
(La Calprenéde ; Cassandra, a romance.) 


Orosius (General History of), from 
Creation to a.p. 417, in Latin by a 
Spanish presbyter of the 5th century, 
was translated into Anglo-Saxon by 
Alfred the Great. 


Orotalt, according to the Greek 
writers, was the Bacchus of the ancient 
Arabs. This, however, is a mistake, for 
the word is a corruption of Allah Taala 
(God the Most High). 


Orpheus (2 syl.). A Thracian poet 
who could move even inanimate things 
by his music. When his wife Eurydicé 
died he went into the infernal regions, 
andso charmed King Pluto that Eurydice 
was released from death on the condition 
that Orpheus would not look back till he 
reached the earth. He was just about 
to place his foot on the earth when he 
turned round, and Eurydice vanished 
from him inaninstant. Pope introduces 
this tale in his δέ, Cecilia’s Ode. 

The tale of Orpheus is thus explained : 
Aédoneus, King of Thespro’tia, was for 
his cruelty called Pluto, and having 
seized Eurydicé as she fled from Aristeos, 
detained her captive. Orpheus obtained 
her release on certain conditions, which 
he violated, and lost her a second time. 


There is rather astriking resemblance between 
the fate of Eurydicé and that of Lot’s wife. The 
former was emerging from hell, the latter from 
Sodom. Orpheus looked back and Eurydice was 
snatched away, Lot's wife looked back and was 
converted into a pillar of salt. 


A Scandinavian Orpheus. ‘‘ Odin was 
so eminently skilled in music, and could 


Orpheus 924 


Osiris 


sing airs so tender and melodious, that 
the rocks would expand with delight, 
while the spirits of the infernal regions 
would stand motionless around him, 
attracted by the sweetness of his strains.”’ 
(Scandinavia, by Crichton and Whea- 
ton, vol. i. p. 81.) 


Orpheus of Highwaymen. So 
Gay has been called on account of his 
Beggu’s Opera. (1688-1782.) 


Orrery. Anastronomical toy to show 
the relative movements of the planets, 
ete., invented by George Graham, who 
sent his model to Rowley, an instrument 
maker, to make one for Prince Eugéne. 
Rowley made a copy of it for Charles 
Boyle, third Earl of Orrery, and Sir 
Richard Steele named it an orrery out 
of compliment to the earl. One of the 
best is Fulton’s, in Kelvin Grove Mu- 

eum, West End Park, Glasgow. 


Orsin. One of the leaders of the 
rabble that attacked Hudibras at a bear- 
baiting. He was ‘‘famous for wise 
conduct and success in war.’’ Joshua 
Gosling, who kept the bears at ‘‘ Paris 
Garden,’’ in Southwark, was the aca- 
demy figure of this character. 


Orsini (Juafiv). A young Italian 
nobleman, whose life was saved by 
Genna’ro at the battle of Rim‘ini. Or- 
sini became the staunch friend of Gen- 
na'ro, but both were poisoned at a 
binquet given by the Princess Neg’roni. 
(Donizetti : Lucrezia di Borgia, an 
opera.) This was the name of the con- 
spirator who attempted the life of 
Napoleon III. 


Orson. Twin brother of Va'entine, 
and son of Bellisant, sister of King 
Pepin and wife of Alexander, Emperor 
ot Constantinople. The twin brothers 
were born ina wood near Orleans, and 
Orson was carried off by a bear, which 
suckled him with her cubs. When he 
grew up he was the terror of France, 
and was called the IWWild Man of the 
Forest. He was reclaimed by Valen- 
tine, overthrew the Green Knight, and 
married Fezon, the daughter of Duke 
Savary of Aquitaine. (French, ovrson, 
a little bear.) (Valentine and Orson.) 


Orthodox Sunday, in the Eastern 

Ὺ - -- οἷ Ὺ 5 
Church, is the First Sunday in Lent, to 
commemorate the restoration of images 
In $t3. 

“Τὰ the Church of England, on the first day in 
Lent, usually called Ash Wednesday,” the clergy 
ure directed to read “the... sentences of God's 
cursing against impenitent sinners,” 


Orts. Crumbs; refuse. (Low Ger- 
man, o7t—i.e. what is left after eating.) 
I shall not eat your orts—i.e. your 
leavings. 
“Let him have time a beggar’s orts to crave.” 
Shakespeare: Rape of Lucrece. 
Ortus. ‘ Ordus a quercu, non a@ sal'- 
ice.’ Latin for “sprung from an oak, 
and not from a willow ’’—i.¢. stubborn 
stuff; one that cannot bend to circum- 
stances. 


Ortwine (2 syl.). Knight of Metz, 
sister's son of Sir Hagan of Trony, a 
Burgundian in the Nibelungen Lied. 


Orvie’'tan (3 syl.) or Venice treacle, 
once believed to be a sovereign remedy 
against poison. From Orvieto, a city of 
Italy, where it is said to have been first 
used. 

“With these drugs will T, this very day, com- 
pound the true orvietan.”—Sir Walter Scott: Ken- 
ilworth, Clap. xill. 


Os Sacrum. (Sec Luz.) A trian- 
gular bone situate at the lower part of 
the vertebral column, of which it is a 
continuation. Some say that this bone 
was so called because it was in the part 
used in sacrifice, or the sacred part ; 
Dr. Nash says it is so called ‘* because it 
is much bigger than any of the verte- 
bre ;’’ but the Jewish rabbins say the 
bone is called sacred because it resists 
decay, and will be the germ of the ‘‘ new 
body’’ at the resurrection. (Hvudibras, 
part iii. canto 2.) 


Osbaldistone. Nine of the charac- 
ters in Sir Walter Scott's Rod Roy bear 
this name. There are (1) the London 
merchant and Sir Hildebrand, the heads 
of two families; (2) the son of the 
merchant is Francis, the pretendu of 
Diana Vernon; (3) the ‘‘ distinguished ”’ 
offspring of the brother are Percival the 
sot, Thorneliffe the bully, John the game- 
Keeper, Richard the horsejockey, Wilfred 
the fool, and Rashleigh the scholar, by 
far the worst of all. This last worthy 15 
slain by Rob Roy, and dies cursing his 
cousin Frank, whom he had injured in 
every way he could contrive. 


Oseway (Dame). The ewe in the 
tale of Reynard the For. 


Osiris (in Egyptian mythology). 
Judge of the dead, and potentate of the 
kingdom of the ghosts. This brother 
and husband of Isis was worshipped 
under the form of an ox. The word 
means Many-eycd, 


Osmand 


Osiris is the moon, husband of Isis. 

“We see Osiris represented by the moon,and 
by an eye at the top of fourteen steps. These 
sieps symbolise the fourteen days of the waxing 
moon.’—J. N. Lockyer, in the Ninéteenth Century, 
July, 1892, p. 81. 

Osiris is used to designate any waning 
luminary, as the setting sun, as well as 
the waning moon or setting planet. 

τ Osiris is the setting sun, but the rising sun is 
Horus, and the noonday sun Ra, 

Osmand. A necromancer, who by 
his enchantments raised up an army to 
resist the Christians. Six of the Cham- 
pions of Christendom were enchanted by 
Osmand, but St. George restored them. 
Osmand tore off his hair in which lay his 
spirit of enchantment, bit his tongue in 
two, disembowelled himself, cut off his 
arms, and then died, (The Seven Cham- 
vions of Christendom, i. 19.) 


Osnaburg. The Duke of York was 
Bishop of Osnabwg. Not prelate, but 
sovereign-bishop. By the treaty of 
Westphalia, in 1648, it was decreed that 
the ancient bishopric should be vested 
alternately in a Catholic bishop and a 
Protestant prince of the House of Lune- 
burg. Frederick, Duke of York, was 
the last sovereign-bishop of Osnaburg. 
In 1803 the district was attached to 
Hanover, and it now forms part of the 
kingdom of Prussia. 

Osnaburg. A kind of coarse linen made 
of flax and tow, originally imported 
from Osnaburg. 


Osprey or Os'pray (a corruption of 
Latin ossifragus, the bone-breaker). The 
fish-eagle, or fishing hawk (Pandion 
haliaétus). 


Ossa. LHeaping Pe'lion upon Ossa. 
Adding difficulty to difficulty ; fruitless 
efforts. The allusion is to the attempt 
of the giants to scale heaven by piling 
Mount Ossa upon Mount Pelion. 

“Ter sunt conati imponére Pelio Ossam.” 

Virgil: Georgics, i. 281. 

Osse’o. Son of the Evening Star. 
When “‘ old and ugly, broken with age, 
and weak with coughing,’’? he married 
Oweenee, youngest of the ten daughters 
of a North hunter. She loved him in 
spite of his ugliness and decrepitude, 
because ‘‘all was beautiful within him.” 
One day, as he was walking with his 
nine sisters-in-law and their husbands, 
he leaped into the hollow of an oak-tree, 
and came out “tall and straight and 
strong and handsome;’’ but Oweenee 
at the same moment was changed into a 
weak old woman, ‘‘ wasted, wrinkled, 
old, and ugly ;”’? but the love of Osse’o 


925 Ostrich Eggs 


was not weakened. The nine brothers 
and sisters-in-law were all transformed 
into birds for mocking Osseo and 
Oweenee when they were ugly, and 
Oweenee, recovering her beauty, had a 
son, whose delight as he grew up was 
to shoot at his aunts and uncles, the 
birds that mocked his father and mother. 
(Longfellow : Hiawatha, xii.), 


Os'sian. The son of Fingal, a Scot- 
tish warrior-bard who lived in the third 
century. The poems called Ossian’s 
Poems were first published by James 
M‘Pherson in 1760, and professed to be 
translations from Erse manuscripts col- 
lected in the Highlands. This is not 
true. M‘Pherson no doubt based the 
poems on traditions, but not one of them 
is a translation of an Erse manuscript ; 
and so far as they are Ossianic at all, 
they are Irish, and not Scotch. 


Ostend’ Manifesto. A declaration 
made in 1857 by the Ministers of the 
United States in England, France, and 
Spain, ‘‘that Cuba must belong to the 
United States.” 


Oster-Monath. 
name of April. 


The Anglo - Saxon 


Ostler, jocosely said to be derived 
from oat-stealer, but actually from the 
French jostelier, an innkeeper. 


Os'tracis’m. Oyster-shelling, black- 
balling, or expelling. Clis’thenés gave 
the people of Attica the power of re- 
moving from the state, without making 
a definite charge, any leader of the 
people likely to subvert the government. 
Each citizen wrote his vote on an earthen- 
ware table (ostracon), whence the term. 


Os'trich. When hunted the ostrich is 
said to run a certain distance and then 
thrust its head into a bush, thinking, 
because it cannot see, that it cannot be 
seen by the hunters. (See CROCODILE. ) 


Ostrich Brains. It was Heliogab’- 
alus who had battues of ostriches for the 
sake of their brains. Smollett says “‘ he 
had six hundred ostriches compounded 
in one mess.”? (Peregrine Pickle.) 


Ostrich Eggsin Churches. Ostrich 
eges are suspended in several Eastern 
churches as symbols of God’s watchful 
care. It is said that the ostrich hatches 
her eges by gazing on them, and if she 
suspends her gaze even for a minute or 
so, the eggs are addled. Furthermore, 
we are told that if an egg is bad the 


Ostrich Stomachs 926 


Out in the Fifteen 


ostrich will break it; so will God deal 
with eyil men. 
“Oh! even with such a look, as fables say 
The mother ostrich fixes on her eggs, 
Till that intense affection 
Kindle its light of life.” 
Southey: Thalaba. 
Ostrich Stomachs. Strong stomachs 

which will digest anything. ‘The ostrich 
swallows large stones to aid its gizzard, 
and when confined where it cannot ob- 
tain them will swallow pieces of iron or 
copper, bricks, or glass. 


Ostringers, Sperviters, Falconers. 
Ostringers are keepers of goshawks and 
tercelles. Sperviters are those who keep 
sparrowhawks or muskets. __Falconers 
are those who keep any other kind of 
hawk, being long-winged. (Markham: 
Gentlemnavs Academie, or Booke of δ. 
Albans.) 


Oswald’s Well commemorates the 
death of Oswald, Christian king of 
Northumbria, who fell in battle before 
Penda, pagan king of Mercia, in 642. 


Othello (in Shakespeare’s tragedy so 
called). A Moor, commander of the 
Venetian army, who eloped with Desde- 
mona. Brabantio accused him of nec- 
romancy, but Desdemona, being sent 
for, refuted the charge. The Moor, 
being then sent to drive the Turks from 
Cyprus, won a signal victory. On his 
return, Iago played upon his jealousy, 
and persuaded him that Desdemona 
intrigued with Cassio. He therefore 
murdered her, and then stabbed himself. 

Othello the Moor. Shakespeare bor- 
rowed this tale from the seventh of 
Giovanni Giraldi Cinthio’s third decade 
of stories, Cinthio died 1573. 


Othello’s Occupation’s Gone 
(Shakespeare). ‘ Jam quadrige@ mee 
decucurrérunt”’ (Petronius). I am laid 
on the shelf; I am no longer the ob- 
served of observers. 


Other Day (Zhe). The day before 
yesterday. The Old English other was 
used for second, as in Latin, wns, alter, 
tertius ; or proximus, alter, tertius. 
Starting from to-day, and going back- 
wards, yesterday was the proximus ab 
illo ; the day before yesterday was the 
altera ab illo, or the other day ; and the 
day preceding that was tertius ab illo, or 
three days ago. Used to express “ἃ 
short time ago,”’ 


Oth’man, Os’man, or Oth’oman, 
surnamed the Conqueror. Founder of 
the Turkish power, from whom the 
empire is called the Ottoman, and the 


Turks are called Osmans, Othmans, 
Osmanli, etc. Peter the Great, being 
hemmed in by the Turks on the banks 
of the Pruth, was rescued by his wife, 
Jatherine, who negotiated a peace with 
the Grand Vizier. 


O'tium cum Dig. [dignita'tc]. Re- 
tirement after a person has given up 
business and has saved enough to live 
upon in comfort. The words are Latin, 
and mean ‘retirement with honour.’’ 
They are more frequently used in jest, 
familiarity, and ridicule, 


Otos. A giant, brother of Ephialtés 
(q.v.). Both brothers grew nine inches 
every month. According to Pliny, Otos 
was forty-six cubits (sixty-six feet) in 
height. (Grech fable.) (See Grants.) 


O'Trigger (Sir Lucius) in The Rivals 
(Sheridan). 

Oui (French for *‘ yes’’). A contrac- 
tion of Hoc illud. Thus, hoc-ill’, ho’-il, 
il, oil, οἱ, oUt. 

Out. Out of God’s blessing into the 
warm sun. One otf Ray’s proverbs, 
meaning from good to less good. ‘* Ab 
equis ad asinos.”’ When the king says 
to Hamlet ‘‘ How is it that the clouds 
still hang on you? ”’ the prince answers, 
‘““No, my lord, I am too much i’ the 
sun,’?’ meaning, ‘‘I have lost God's 
blessing, for too much of the sun ’’— 
i.e. this far inferior state. 

“ Thou out of heaven’s benediction comest 

To the warm sun.” 
Shakespeare : King Lear, ii. 2. 

To have it out. To contest either 
physically or verbally with another to 
the utmost of one’s ability; as, “1 
mean to have it out with him one of 
these days;’’ ‘‘I had it out with him” 
—i.e. “1 spoke my mind freely and 
without reserve.’’ The idea is that of 
letting loose pent-up disapprobation. 


Out-Herod Herod (70). To go 
beyond even Herod in violence, brutal- 
ity, or extravagant language. In the 
old miracle plays Herod was the type of 
tyranny and violence, both of speech 
and of action. 


Out and Out. Incomparably, by far, 
or beyond measure; as, ‘‘ He was out 
and out the best man.’’ ‘‘It is an out- 
and-outer’’ means nothing can exceed 
it. It is the word wtter, the Anglo- 
Saxon uterre. 


Out in the Fifteen—i.c. in the rebel 
army of the Pretender, in 1710 


Out in the Forty-five 927 


Owl 


(George 1.). (Howitt: History of Eng- 
land, vol, iv. p. 347.) 


Out in the Forty-five—i.c. in the 
rebel army of the Young Pretender, in 


1745 (George II.). (Howitt: History of 


England, vol. iv. p. 596.) 


Out of Harness. Not in practice, 
re‘ired. A horse out of harness is one 
not at work. 


Out of Pocket. To be out of pocket 
by a transaction is to suffer loss of money 
thereby. More went out of the pocket 
than came into it. 


Out of Sorts. Indisposed, in bad 
spirits. The French locution is rather 
remarkable—WNe pas étre dans son assictte. 
“ς ΤῸ sort”? is to arrange in order, ‘“‘a 
sort’’ is one of the orders so sorted.”’ 

Out of sorts. In printers’ language, 
means not having sufficient of some par- 
ticular letter, mark, or figure. 


Out of the Wood. ‘ You are not 
out of the wood yet,’ not yet out of 
danger. ‘* Don’t shout till you are out 
of the wood,”’ do not think yourself safe 
till you are quite clear of the threatened 
danger. When freebooters were masters 
of the forests no traveller was safe till 
he had got clear of their hunting ground. 


Cu'tis (Greek, nobody). A name as- 
sumed by Odysseus in the cave of Poly- 
phemos. When the monster roared with 
pain from the loss of his eye, his brother 
giants demanded from a distance who 
was hurting him: ‘‘ Nobody,”’ thundered 
out Polyphemos, and his companions 
went their way. Odysseus in Latin is 
Ulysses. 


Outrigger. The leader of a unicorn 
team. The Earl of Malmesbury, in 1867, 
so called the representative of the minor- 
ity in the three-cornered constituency. 


Outrun the Constable. 
CONSTABLE.) 


Outworks, in fortification. All the 
works between the enceinte (g.v.) and 
the covered way (q.v.). 

Ou’'zel. The blackbird; sometimes 
the thrush is so called. (Anglo-Saxon, 
6ile, a blackbird.) Bottom speaks of 
the ‘‘ ousel cock, so black of hue with 
orange tawny bill.”’? (Midsummer Night's 
Drea.) 


Ovation. A triumph; a triumphal 
reception or entry of the second order ; 
so called from ovis, a sheep, because 
the Romans sacrificed a sheep to a vic- 
torious general to whom an ovation was 


(See wider 


accorded, but an ox to one who had ob- 
tained a ‘‘ triumph.”’ 

Over. (Greek, huper; Latin, super; 
German, tiber ; Anglo-Saxon, of¢c7.) 


Over, in cricket, means that the 
fielders are to go over to the other side. 
This is done when five balls have been 
delivered from one end. It used to be 
four, The bowling is taken up at the 
opposite wicket. 


Over and Over Again. Very fre- 
quently. (In Latin, ¢érwm iterumque.) 


Over Edom will I cast my Shoe 
(Psalm Ix. 8; eviii. 9). Will I march. 
“ Over Edom will I cast my shoe, over 
Philistia will I triumph.” 

“Every member of the Travellers’ Club who 
could pretend to have cast his shoe over Edom, 
was constituted a lawful critic."—Sir W. Scott: 
The Talisman (Introduction). 


Over the Left. (See LEFT.) 


O’verdo (Justice), in Ben Jonson’s 
Bartholomew Fair. 


Overreach (Sir Giles). The counter- 
part of Sir Giles Mompesson, a noted 
usurer outlawed for his misdeeds. He 
is an unscrupulous, grasping, proud, 
hard-hearted rascal in A New Way to 
Pay Old Debts, by Massinger. 

Overture. A piece of music for the 
opening of a concert. To ‘make an 
overture to a person”? is to be the first 
to make an advance either towards a re- 
conciliation or an acquaintance. (French, 
ouverture, opening.) 

Overy. St. Mary Overy (Southwark). 
John Overie was a ferryman, who used to 
ferry passengers from Southwark to the 
City, and accumulated a hoard of wealth 
by penurious savings. His daughter 
Mary, at his decease, became a nun, and 
founded the church of St. Mary Overy 
on the site of her father’s house. 


Ovid. The French Ovid. Du Bellay, 
one of the Pleiad poets; also called the 
ἐς father of grace and elegance.”” (1524- 
1560.) 

Ow’ain (Sir). The Trish knight who 
passed through St. Patrick’s purgatory 
by way of penance. (Henry of Saltrey: 
The Descent of Owain.) 

Owen Meredith. 
Lytton. 

Owl. J live too near a wood to be 
seared by an owl. Iam too old to be 
frightened by a bogie; I am too olda 
stager to be frightened by such a person 
as you. 


Robert Bulwer 


Owl 


998 


Cxford Blués 


- 


Owl, the emblem of Athens. Be- 
cause owls abound there. As Athe’na 
(Minerva) and Athe’n (Athens) are the 
same word, the owl was given to Minerva 
for her symbol also, 


Owl-light. Dusk; the blind man’s 
holiday. French, ‘* Lntre chien et loup.” 


Owl in an Ivy Bush (Like an). 
Very ugly, a horrible fright [ot a fellow |. 
Said of (or to) a person who has dressed 
his head unbecomingly, or that has a 
scared look, an untidy head of hair, or 
that looks inanely wise. The ivy bush 
was supposed to be the favourite haunt 
of owls, and numerous allusions to this 
supposition might be readily cited. 
“Good ivy, say to us what birds hast thou? 

None but the owlet that cries * How, how!’ ” 

Carol (time Henry V1.). 

Owl was a Baker’s Daughter 
(The). According to legend, our Saviour 
went into a baker’s shop to ask for some- 
thing to eat. The mistress of the shop 
instantly put a cake into the oven for 
Him, but the daughter said it was too 
large, and reduced it half. The dough, 
however, swelled to an enormous size, 
and the daughter cried out, ‘‘ Heugh! 
heugh ! heugh!”’ and was transformed 
into an owl. Ophelia alludes to this 
tradition in the lme— 


“Well, God ield you! They say the owl was a 
baker's daughter.’—Shakespeare : Hamlet. ἵν. ὃ. 


Owilery. A haunt or abode of owls. 
Owlgiass (German, wulenspiegel). 


Thyl, son of Klaus (Eulenspiegel) proto- 
type of all the knavish fools οἵ. modern 
times. He was a native of Brunswick, 
and wandered about the world playing 
all manner of tricks on the people he en- 


countered. (Died 1350.) 
Ox. Emblematic of St. Luke. It is 


one of the four figures which made up 
Ezekiel’s cherub (i. 10). The ox is the 
emblem of the priesthood, and has been 
awarded to St. Luke because he begins 
his gospel with the Jewish priest sacri- 
ficing in the Temple. (See LuKE.) 

The ox is also the emblem of St. 
Frideswide, St. Leonard, St. Sylvester, 
St. Medard, St. Julietta, and St. Blan- 
dina. 

He has an ox on his tongue, (Latin, 
Povem in lingua habe're, to be bribed to 
silence.) The Greeks had the same ex- 
pression. The Athenian coin was stamped 
with the figure of an ox. The French 
say, “Ll a wn os dans la bouche,” referring 
to a dog which is bribed by a bone. 

The black ox hath trampled on you 
(The Antiquary). ; 


Misfortune has come, 


to your house. You are henpecked. A 
black ox was sacrificed to Pluto, the 
infernal god, as a white one was to 
Jupiter. 

The black ox never trod upon his foot 
(common proverb). He never knew 
sorrow. Heis not married. (See above.) 

The dumb ox. St. Thomas Aqui'nas ; 
so named by his fellow students at Co- 
logne, on account of his dulness and 
taciturnity. (1224-1274.) 

Albertus said, ‘‘ We call him the dumb 
ox, but he will give one day such a 
bellow as shall be heard from one end of 
the world to the other.”” (Alban Butler.) 


Ox-eye. A cloudy speck which indi- 
cates the approach of a storm. When 
Elijah heard that a speck no bigger than 
a ‘*man’s hand’? might be seen in the 
sky, he told Ahab that a torrent of rain 
would overtake him before he could 
reach home (1 Kings xvii. 44, 44). 
Thomson alludes to this storm signal in 
his Swnmer. 


Ox of the Deluge. The Irish name 
for a great black deer, probably the 
Megace'vos Hiber'nicus, or Trish elk, now 
extinct. 


Oxford. The College Ribbons, 

Balliol, pink, white, blue, white, pink. 

Brasenose, black, and gold edges. 

Christ Church, blue, with red cardi- 
nal’s hat, 

Corpus, red and blue stripe. 

Ixeter, black, and red edges. 

Jesus, green, with white edges. 

Lincoln, blue, with mitre. 

Magdalen, black and white. 

Merton, blue, and white edges, with 
red cross. 

New College, three pink and two white 
stripes. 

Oriel, blue and white. 

embroke, pink, white, pink. 

Qucews, ved, white, blue, white, blue, 
white, red. 

St. John’s, yellow, black, red. 

Trinity, blue, with double dragon’s 
head, yellow and green, or blue, with 
white edges. 

University, blue, and yellow edges. 

Wadham, light blue. 

Worcester, blue, white, pink, white, blue. 

Hats. 

St. Albus, blue, with arrow-head, 

St. Edimond’s, red, and yellow edges. 

St. Mary, white, black, white. 

Magdalen, black, and blue edges. 

Oxford Blues. The Royal Horse 


Guards were so called in 1690, because of 
their blue facings. 


Oxford Boat 9 


P's and \O’s 


Oxford Boat Crew. Dark blue. 
Cambridge boat crew, light blue. 


Oxford Movement. (See Tracts 
FOR THE TIMES.) 


Oxford Stroke (inrowing). A long, 
deep, high-feathered stroke, excellent 
in very heavy water. The Cambridge 
stroke is a clear, fine, deep sweep, with 
a very low feather, excellent in smooth 
water. The Cambridge pull is the best 
for smooth water and a short reach, but 
the Oxford fora “lumpy” river and a 
four-mile course. 


Oxgang, as a land measure, was no 
certain quantity, but as much as an ox 
could gang over or cultivate. Also 
called a bovate. The Latin jugum was 
a similar term, which Varro defines 
“Quod juncti boves uno die exarare: 
possunt.”” 

Eight oxgangs made a carucate. If an oxgang 
Was as much as one ox could cultivate, itsayerage 
would be about fifteen acres, 

O’yer and Ter’miner (Cowrts of) are 
general gaol deliveries, held twice a year 
in every county. Oyer is French for to 
hear—i.c, hear in court or try; and fer- 
miner is French for to conclude. The 
words mean that the commissioners ap- 
pointed are to hear and bring to an end 
all the cases in the county. 


Oyster. Fast as a Kentish oyster, 
i.e. hermetically sealed. Kentish oys- 
ters are proverbially good, and all good 
oysters are fast closed. 


Oyster. No more sense than an oyster. 
This is French: ‘‘ 70 raisonne comme une 
huitre.”’? Oysters have a mouth, but no 
head. 


Oyster Part (4))). 
appears, speaks, or acts only once, 
an oyster, he opens but once. 


Oyster and Huitre (French) are 
variants of the same Latin word, ostréa. 
Old French wistre, uitre, huitre. 


Oysters. Who eats oysters on St. 
James's Day will never want. St. 
James’s Day is the first day of the oyster 
season (August 5th), when oysters are 
an expensive luxury eaten only by the 
rich. By 6, 7 Vict., c. 79, the oyster 
season begins September 1, and closes 
April 90. 

Oz. (for ounce). Z% made with a tail 
(3) resembles the old terminal mark 5, 
indicating a contraction—as vi3. a con- 
traction of vi[delicet] ; quib3, a contrac- 
tion of guibus ; s3, a contraction of sed 
(but), and so on, 


59 


An actor who 
Like 


P. 


P. This letter is a rude outline of a 
man’s mouth, the upright being the 
neck. In Hebrew it is called pe (the 
mouth). 


P. The five P's. William Oxberry 
was so called, because he was Printer, 
Poet, Publisher, Publican, and Player. 
(1784-1824.) 


P [alliterative]. In 1548, Placentius, 
a Dominican monk, wrote a poem of 
253 hexameter verses (called Pugna Por- 
corum), every word of which begins with 
the letter p. It opens thus :— 

“Praise Paul’s prize pig’s prolific progeny.” 

*. In English heroics the letter A or 7 would he 
far more easy, as they would give us articles. 

P.C. ( patres conscripti). The Roman 
senate. The hundred senators appointed 
by Romulus were called simply patres ; a 
second hundred added by Tatius, upon 
the union of the Sabines with the 
Romans, were called patres mino'rum 
gentium ; a third hundred subsequently 
added by Tarquin’ius Priscus were 
termed patres conscripti, an expression 
applied to a fourth and fifth hundred 
conscribed to the original patres or sena- 
tors. Latterly the term was applied to 
the whole body. 


Β: ΠΡ ΘΙ ΒΡ Gn music) 
piano, pp = pianissimo, and ppp = 
pianississimo, Sometimes pp means 
piu piano (more softly). 

* So £. = forte, fi = fortissimo, and 
fff = fortississimo. 


P.P.C. (pour prendre congé). For 
leave-taking ; sometimes written on the 
address cards of persons about to leave a 
locality when they pay their farewell 
visits. In English, paid parting call. 


P.S. (post-scriptum). Written after- 
wards—.¢. after the letter or book was 
finished, (Latin.) 


P’sandQ’s. Mind your P’s and Q’s. 
Be very circumspect in your behaviour. 

Several explanations have been sug- 
gested, but none seems to be wholly 
satisfactory. The following comes near- 
est to the point of the caution :—In the 
reign of Louis XIV., when wigs of un- 
wieldy size were worn, and bows were 
made with very great formality, two 
things were specially required, a ‘‘step”’ 
with the feet, and a low bend of the 
body. In the latter the wig would be 
very apt to get deranged, and even to 
fall off. The caution, therefore, of 


Pabana 930 


the French dancing-master to his pupils 
was, ‘‘ Mind your P’s [i.e. pieds, teet] 
and Q’s [i.e. queues, wigs].”’ 

Paba’/na (Zhe) or Peacock Dance. 
A grave and stately Spanish dance, so 
called from the manner in which the 
lady held up her skirt during the per- 
formance, 


Pacific Ocean (712). So called by 
Magellan, because he enjoyed calm 
weather and a placid sea when he sailed 
across it. All the more striking after 
the stormy and tempestuous passage of 
the adjoining straits. 

The Pacific. 

Amadeus VIII., Countof Savoy. (1383, 
1391-1439 ; died 1451.) 

Frederick I1I., Emperor of Germany. 
(1415, 1440-1493.) 

Olaus 111. of Norway. (*, 1030-1093.) 

Packing a Jury. Selecting persons 
on a jury whose verdict may be relied 
on from proclivity, far more than on 
evidence, 

Pac’olet. A dwarf in the service of 
Lady Clerimond. He had a winged 
horse, which carried off Valentine, Or- 
son, and Clerimond from the dungeon of 
Ferragus to the palace of King Pepin, 
and afterwards carried Valentine to the 
palace of Alexander, Emperor of Con- 
stantinople, his father. (J’alentine and 
Orson.) 

It is a horse of Pacolet. (French.) A 
very swift one, that will carry the rider 
anywhere ; in allusion to the enchanted 
flying horse of wood, belonging to the 
dwart Pac’olet. (See above.) 

“T fear neither shot nor arrow, nor any horse 
how swift soever he may be, not though he could 
outstrip the Pegasus of Perseus 6r of Pacolet, 
being assured that I can make good my escape." 
—Rabelais : Gargantua, Wk. ii. 24. 

Pacto'lus. The golden sands of the 
Pactolus, The gold found in the Pac- 
tolian sands was from the mines of 
Mount Tmo'lus; but the supply ceased 
at the commencement of the Christian 


era. (See Mrpas.) Now called Ba- 
gouly. 
Padding. The filling-up stuff of 


serials, The padding of coats and gowns 
is the wool, etc., put in to make the 
figure of the wearer more shapely. 
Figuratively, stuff in books or speeches 
to spin them out. 


Paddington Fair. A public exe- 
cution. Tyburn, where executions for- 
merly took place, is in the parish of 
Paddington, Public executions were 
abolished in 1868, 


Pagan 


Paddle Your Own Canoe. Mind 
your own business. The caution was 
given by President Lincoln, of North 
America, 

Paddock. Cold as a paddock. A 
paddock is a toad or frog ; and we have 
the corresponding phrases ‘‘cold as a 
toad,’’ and ‘‘ cold as a frog.’’ Both are 
cold-blooded. ‘‘ Paddock calls.”’ (Mae- 
beth, i. 1.) 

Paddi-whack means an Irish wag, 
wag being from the Saxon weg-ian. 


Paddy. AnlIrishman. A corruption 
of St. Patrick, Irish Padhrig. 


Pad'ua was long supposed by the 
Scotch to be the chief school of necro- 
mancy ; hence Sir Walter Scott says of 
the Earl of Gowrie— 

“ He learned the art that none may name 
In Padua, far beyond the sea.” 
Lay of the Last Minstrel. 

Paduasoy or Padésoy. A silk stuff 
originally made at Padua. 


Pean. The physician of the celestial 
gods; the deliverer from any evil or 


calamity, (Greek, pauo, to make to 
cease.) 
Pean. A hymn to Apollo, and ap- 


plied to the god himself. We are told 
in Dr. Smith’s Classical Dictionary, that 
this word is from Pzean, the physician 
of the Olympian gods; but surely it 
could be no honour to the Sun-god to 
be called by the name of his own vassal. 
Hermsterhuis suggests pawo, to make to 
cease, meaning to make diseases to cease ; 
but why supply diseases rather than any 
other noun’ ‘The more likely deriva- 
tion, me judice, is the Greek verb paio, 
to dart; Apollo being called the ‘ far- 
darter.”?” The hymn began with ‘ Jo 
Pean.’’ Homer applies it to a trium- 
phal song in general. 


Pagan properly means ‘‘ belonging to 
a village’? (Latin, pagus). The Chris- 
tian Church fixed itself first in cities, the 
centres of intelligence. Long after it had 
been established in towns, idolatrous 
practices continued to be observed in 
rural districts and villages, so pagan and 
villager came to mean the same thing. 
(See HEATHEN.) 


Pagan Works of Art. In Rome 
there are numerous works of art in- 
tended for Pagan deities and Roman 
emperors perverted into Christian nota- 
bilities. 

ANGELS, in St. Peter's of Rome, are old Pagan 
Statues of Cupids and winged genii. 


GABRIEL, in St. Peter's of Rome, is an old Pagan 
statue of the god Mercury. bs 


Page 


931 


Palace 


JOHN THE BAPTIST, in St. Peter's of Rome, is 
mmade out of a Statue of Herculés. 3 

51. CATHERINE, in St. Peter's of Rome, is made 
out of a statue of the goddess Forttna, 

St. GILEs (or EGIDIUS), in St. Peter’s of Rome, 
isa Statue of Vulcan. 

St. Paun. Sixtus V. perverted the original 
statue of Marcus Aurélius Antoninus into that of 
St. Paul. This beautiful marble column, 170 feet 
in height, contains a spiral of bas- reliefs of the 
wars of the Roman emperor, wholly out of cha- 
racter with the statue which surmounts it. 

St. PETER. The same Pope (Sixtus V.) con- 
verted the original statue of Trajan, on Trajan’s 
column, into a statue of St.Peter. This exquisite 
column, like that of Antoninus, contains a spiral 
of bas-reliefs, representing the wars of Trajan. 
Surmounted by St. Peter, “the perversion is ab- 
solutely Judicrous. In St. Peter’s of Rome the 
Statue of St. Peter was meant for “the old Roman 
god Jupiter, 

VIRGIN MARY. This statue, in St. Peter’s of 
Rome, is in reality a statue of Isis, standing on 
the crescent Moon. 

See Twentieth Century, 1892 : 

Page. A boy attendant. (Russian, 
Pay, « boy; Greek, pais ; Italian, pag- 
gio; Spanish, page; W elsh, bac hgen. 


But page, the leaf of a book, is the Latin 
pigint.) 

Page (Jf. and Mrs.). Tohabitants 
of Windsor. The lady joins with Mrs. 
Ford to trick Sir John Falstaff. 

Anne Page. Daughter of the above, 
in love with Fenton. Slender, the son 
of a country squire, shy, awkward, and 
a booby, greatly admires the lady, but 
has too faint a heart to urge his suit 
further than to sigh in audible whispers, 
‘Sweet Anne Page!” 

William Page. A school-boy, the 
brother of Anne. (Shakespeare: The 
Merry Wives of Windsor.) 

Pago'da. A temple in China, Hin- 
dustan, ete. (Hindustanee, boot-Lhuda, 
abode of God; Persian, put-gada, idol- 
house; Spanish, pagoda.) 


Paint. The North American Indians 
paint their faces only when they go to 
war; hostilities over, they wash it off. 

Paint the Lion (70), on board ship, 
means to strip a person naked and then 
smear the body all over with tar. (Sve 
Notes and Queries, 6th August, 1892.) 


Painter. The rope which binds a 
ship’s boat to theship. (Latin, panthéra ; 
French, pantiere, a drag-net; panteur, 
a stretcher.) 

DP llent your painter for you. Vl send 
you to the right about in double quick 
time. If the painter is cut, of course 
the boat drifts away. ΄ 


Painter of the Graces. Andrea 
Appia‘ni is so called. (1754-1817.) 


Painter of Nature. Remi Belleau, 
author of Loves and Transformations of 
the Precious Stones, One of the Pleiad 


ROME. 


poets is so called, and well deserves the 
compliment. ‘The Shepherd’s Calendar 
of Spenser is largely borrowed from 
Belleau’s Song on April. (1528-1577.) 


Painters and Artists.  Character- 
istics of great artists. The brilliant 
truth of a Watteau, the dead reality of 
a Poussin, the touching grace of a 
Reynolds. 


“The colouring of Titian, the expression of 
Rubens, the grace of R: uphael, the purity of Do- 
menichino, the correzgioscity of Corregsio, the 
learning of Poussin, the airs of Guido, the taste 
a the Caracci, the grand contour of Angelo.”— 
Sterne. 

“The April freshness of Giotto, the piety of Fra 
Angelo, the virginal purity of the young Raphael, 
the sweet gravity of John Bellini, the philosop hie 
depth of Da Vinci, the sublime elevation of 
Michael Angelo, the suavity of Fra Bartolommeo, 
the delicacy of ‘the Della Robbia, the restrained 
powers of Roscellini.” 


Defects of great artists. 


Tn MICHAEL ANGELO the ankles are too navrow. 

In TLTLAN the palm of the thumb is too promi- 
nent. 

In RAPHAEL the ears are badly drawn. 

In PLNTURICCHIO both ears and hands are badly 
drawn. 


Prince of painters. Parrhas‘ios, the 
Greek painter, so called himself. (Fifth 
century B.C.) 

Apelles of Cos. (Fourth century B.c.) 


Painting. It is said that Apelles, 
being at a loss to delineate the foam οὐ 
Alexander’s horse, dashed his brush at 
the picture in despair, and did by acci- 
dent what he could not accomplish by art. 


Pair Off. When two members of 
Parliament, or two opposing electors, 
agree to absent themselves, and not to 
vote, so that one neutralises the vote of 
the other. The Whips generally find 
the pairs for members. 

Paishdad’‘ian Dynasty. The Kai- 
Omurs dynasty of Persia was so called 
from the third of the line (Honshung), 
who was surnamed Puishdad, or the 


just lawgiver (B.c. 910-870). (See Kal 
OMURS.) 

Paix. Ja Paix des Dames. The 
treaty concluded at Cambray, in 1529, 


between Frangois I. and Charles v. 
of Germany; so called because it was 
brought about by Louise of Savoy 
(mother of the French king) and Mar- 
garet, the emperor’s aunt. 


Pal (4). A gipsy-word, meaning a 
brother, or companion. 


Palace originally meant a dwelling 
on the Pal’atine Hill of Rome. This hill 
was so called from Pa’lés, a pastoral 
deity, whose festival was celebrated on 
April 21st, the ‘‘ birthday of Rome,’’ to 
commemorate the day when Rom’ ulus, 


Paladin 


the wolf-child, drew the first furrow at 
the foot of the hill, and thus laid the 
foundation of the ‘‘ Roma Quadra’ta,”’ 
the most ancient part of the city. On 
this hill Augustus built his mansion, and 
his example was followed by Tibevrius 
and Nero. Under the last-named em- 
peror, all private houses on the hill had 
to be pulled down to make room for 
“The Golden House,”’ called the Pala’- 
tium, the palace of palaces. It con- 


939 


tinued to be the residence of the Roman | 


emperors to the time of Alexander 
Seve’rus. (See PALLACE.) 

Paladin. An officer of the Pala’tium 
or Byzantine palace, a high dignitary. 

Paladins. The knights of King Charle- 
magne. ‘The most noted are Allory de 
V’Estoc: Astolfo; Basin de Genevois; 
Fierambras or Ferumbras ; Florismart ; 
Ganelon, the traitor ; Geoffroy, Seigneur 
de Bordelois, and Geoffroy de Frises; 


Guerin, Duc de Lorraine ; Guillaume de | 


V’Estoc, brother of Allory; Guy de 
Bourgogne ; Hot], Comte de Nantes ; 
Lambert, Prince de Bruxelles; Mala- 
gigi; Nami or Nayme de Baviere ; 
Ogier or Oger the Dane ; Olivier, son of 
Regnier, Comte de Gennes; Orlando 
(see Roland); Otuél; Richard, Duce 
de Normandie ; Rinaldo ; Riol du Mans: 
Roland, Comte de Cenouta, son of 
Milon and Dame Berthe, Charlemagne’s 
sister; Samson, Duc de Bourgogne ; 
and Thiry or Thiery d’Ardaine. Of 
these, twelve at a time seemed to have 
formed the coterie of the king. (Latin, 
palalinus, one of the palace.) 
“Who hear the hows were knights in Arthur's 
imwalnemtien. and twelve the peers of Charle- 
main.” Dryden: The Flower and the Leaf. 
Pale’mon, originally called Meli- 
certes. Son of Ino; called Paleemon 
after he was made a sea-god. The 
Roman Portu’nus, the protecting god of 
harbours, is the same. (See PaLEMON.) 


Palais des Thermes. Once the 
abode of the Roman government of 
Gaul, as well as of the kings of the 
first and second dynasties. Here Julius 
fixed his residence when he was Cresar 
of Gaul. It is in Paris, but the only 
part now extant is a vast hall, formerly 
the chamber of cold baths (frigida’- 
rium), restored by Napoleon III. 


Palame‘des of Lombardy joined 
the squadron of adventurers with his 
two brothers, Achilles and Sforza, in 
the allied Christian army. He was shot 
by Clorinda with an arrow. (Zusso: 
Jerusalem Delivered, book iii. ο. ii. 4.) 


Pale Faces 


He is a Palamedes. A clever, in- 
genious person, The allusion is to 
the son of Nauplios, who invented 
measures, scales, dice, etc. He also 
detected that the madness of Ulysses 
was only assumed. 


Sir Palame'dés. A Saracen knight 
overcome in single combat by Sir 
Tristram. Both loved Isolde, the wife 
of King Mark ; and after the lady was 
given up by the Saracen, Sir Tristram 
converted him to the Christian faith, 
and stood his godfather at the fout. 
(Thomas the Ithymer.) 


Pal'amon and Arcite (2 syl.). Two 
young Theban knights who fell into the 
hands of ‘‘ Duke Theseus,’’ and were 
shut up in a donjon at Athens. Both 
fell in love with Emily, the duke’s 
sister-in-law. In time they obtained 
their liberty, and the duke appointed a 
tournament, promising Emily to the 
victor. Arcite prayed to Mars to grant 
him victory, Pal’amon prayed to Venus 
to grant him Emily, aud both obtained 
their petition. Arcite won the victory, 
but, being thrown from his horse, died ; 
Pal’amon, therefore, though not the 
winner, won the prize for which he 
fought. The story is borrowed from 
Le Teseide of Boccaccio, The Black 
Horse, a drama by John Fletcher, is the 
same tale; so called because it was a 
black horse from which Arcite was 
thrown. (Chaucer: The Knight’s Tale.) 


‘Palat/inate (4 syl.). The province 
of a palatine, as the Palatinate of the 
Rhine, in Germany. A palatine is an 
officer whose court is held in the royal 
palace, also called a palace-greave or 
ptalzgraf. There were three palatine 
counties in England — viz. Chester, 
Durham, and Lancaster, in which the 
count exercised a royal authority, just 
as supreme as though he had been the 
regal tenant of the palace itself. 


Pala’'ver comes from the Portuguese 
palavra (talk), which is padaver, a coun- 
cil of African chiefs. 


“Comparisons are odorous: palabras [words], 


neizhbour Verges.” — Shakespeare: Much Ado 
about Nothing, ill. 4. 
Pale. Within the pale of my observa- 


tion—i.e. the scope thereof. The do- 
minion of King John and his successors 
in Ireland was marked off, and the part 
belonging to the English crown was 
called the pale, or the part paled off. 


Pale Faces. So Indians call the 


European settlers. 


- Palemon 


933 


Pall 


Pale’‘mon. ‘The pride of swains”’ 
in Thomson’s Autuwnn; a poetical re- 
presentation of Boaz, while the ‘* lovely 
young Lavin'ia”’ is Ruth. 

Pulemon, in love with the captain’s 
daughter, in Falconer’s Shipwreck. 

Palermo Razors. Razors of su- 
preme excellence, made in Palermo. 


“Ttis a rayser, and that’s a very good one, 
Itcune lately from Palermo” ὁπ έ λλ᾽͵᾽͵᾽ 
Damon and Pithias, i. 227. 


Pales. The god of shepherds and 
their flocks. (Roman mythology.) 
Palestine Soup. Soup made of 


Jerusalem artichokes. This is a good 
example of blunder begetting blunder. 
Jerusalem artichoke is a corruption of 
the Italian Girasole articiocco —i.e. the 
“sunflower artichoke.’? From g/raso/e 
we make Jerusalem, and from Jerusalem 
artichokes we make Palestine soup. 


Pales'tra (3 syl.). Hither the act of 
wrestling, etc., or the place in which the 
Grecian youths practised athletic exer- 
cises. (Greek, pa/é, wrestling.) 


Palestrina or Pelestrina. An 
island nearly south of Venice, noted for 
its glass-houses. 

Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, 
called ‘*The Prince of Music.”’ (1529- 
1591.) 

Paletot [pal’-e-t0}. A corruption of 
pulla-toque, a cloak with a hood. Called 
hy Piers Plowman a paltock. ‘The hood 
or toque has disappeared, but the word 
remains the same. 


Pa'‘limpsest. A parchment on which 
the original writing has been effaced, 
and something else has been written. 
(Greek, palin, again; psao, I rub or 
efface.) When parchment was not 
supplied in sufficient quantities, the 
monks and others used to wash or rub 
out the writing in a parchment and use 
it again. As they did not wash or rub 
it out entirely, many works have been 
recovered by moderu ingenuity. Thus 
Cicero’s De Republica has been restored ; 
it was partially erased to make room for 
a commentary of St. Augustine on the 
Psalms. Of course St. Augustine’s com- 
mentary was first copied, then erased 
trom the parchment, and the original 
MS. of Cicero made its appearance. 

“Central Asia is a palimpsest ; everywhere 
actual barbarism overlays a bygone ciyillsation.” 
—The Times. 

Pal/indrome (3 syl.’.. A word or 
line which reads backwards and for- 
wards alike, as Madam, also Roma tibi 


subito motibus ibit amor. (Greek, palin 
dromo, to run back again.) (Sze SorapDic.) 
* The following Greek palindrome is 
very celebrated :— 
NIVONANOMHMATAMHMONANOVIN 
(Wash my transgressions, not only my 
face). The legend round the font at 
St. Mary’s, Nottingham. Also on the 
font in the basilica of St. Sophia, Con- 
stantinople; also on the font of St. 
Stephen d’Egres, Paris; at St. Menin’s 
Abbey, Orléans; at Dulwich College ; 
and at the following churches: Wor- 
lingsworth (Suffolk), Harlow (Essex), 
Knapton (Norfolk), Melton Mowbray 
(it has been removed to a neighbouring 
hamlet), St. Martin’s, Ludgate (London), 
and Hadleigh (Suffolk). (See /ngram : 
Churches of London, vol. ii.; Malcolm : 


Londinum Redivivum, vol. iv. p. 356; 
Allen ; London, vol. iii. p. 530.) 
ΛΠ It is said that when Napoleon was asked 


whether he could have invaded Engiand, he 
answered “ Able was I ere I saw Elba.” 

Palinode (3 syl.). A song or dis- 
course recanting a previous one. A good 
specimen of the palinode is Horace, book 
i. ode 16, translated by Swift. Watts 
has a palinode in which he retracts the 
praise bestowed upon Queen Anne. In 
the first part of her reign he wrote a 
laudatory poem to the queen, but he 
says that the latter part deluded his 
hopes and proved him a false prophet. 
Samuel Butler has also a palinode to 
recant what he said in a previous poem 
to the Hon. Edward Howard, who 
wrote a poem called The British Princes, 
(Greek, palin odé, a song again.) 


Palinurus (in English, Pulinwe). 
Any pilot; so called from Palinurus, the 
steersman of AMne’as. 

“Oh! think how to his [Pits] latest day, 

When death, just hovering, claimed his prey, 

With Palinure’s unaltered mood, 

Firm at his dangerous post he stood ; 


and other 


Dishes 
similar articles covered with models from 
nature of fish, reptiles, shells, flowers, 
and leaves, most carefully coloured and 
in high relief, like the wares of Della 


Palissy Ware. 


Robbia, Bernard Palissy was boru at 
Saintes. (1510-1590.) 


Pall, the covering thrown over a 
coffin, is the Latin pallimn, a square 
piece of cloth used by the Romans to 
throw over their shoulders, or to cover 
them in bed ; hence a coverlet. 

Pall, the long sweeping robe, is the 
Roman pall/a, worn ouly by princes and 


Pall-bearers 


934 


women of honest fame. This differed 
greatly from the palliwn, which was 
worn by freemen and slaves, soldiers, 
and philosophers. 
“Sometimes let gorgeous Tragedy 
In sceptred pall come sweeping by.” 
Milton: Il Penseroso. 

Pail-bearers, The custom of ap- 
pointing men of mark for pall-bearers, 
has come to us fromthe Romans. Julius 
Cesar had magistrates for his pall- 
bearers ; Augustus Czesar had senators; 
Germanicus had tribunes and centurions ; 
/Emil'is L. Paulus had the chief men of 
Macedonia who happened to be at Rome 
at the time; but the poor were carried 
on a plain bier on men’s shoulders. 0337 j 


Pali Mali. A game in which a palle 
or iron ball is struck through an iron 
ring with a mall or mallet. 


Pallace is by Phillips derived from 
pallicia, pales or paled fences. In 
Devonshire, a palace means a ‘store- 
house ;”’ in Totness, ‘‘a landing-place 
enclosed but not roofed in.” (See Pa- 
LACE.) 

“ All that cellar and the chamhers over the same, 
and the little pallace and landing-place adjoining 
the River Dart.”—Lease granted by the Corporation 
of Totness in 1703. 

“Out of the ivory palaces” (Psalm xly. 8)— 
i.e. store-places or cabinets made of ivory. For 
“palaces” read pallaces. 

Palia'dium. Something that affords 
effectual protection and safety. The 
Palla’diaum was a colossal wooden statue 
of Pallas in the city of Troy, said to 
have fallen from heaven. It was be- 
lieved that so long as this statue re- 
mained within the city, Troy would be 
safe, but if removed, the city would fall 
into the hands of the enemy. The 
statue was carried away by the Greeks, 
and the city burnt by them to the 
ground. 

The Scotch had a similar tradition 
attached to the great stone of Scone, 
near Perth. Edward I, removed it to 
Westminster, and it is still framed in 
the Coronation Chair of England. (See 
CORONATION, SCONE. ) 

Palladiwn of Rome. Anci'le (9.v.). 

Palladium of Meg'ara. A golden hair 
of King Nisus. (See ΒΟΥ ΙΔ, EpEN 
HAtt.) 


_Pallas. A name of Minerva, some- 
times called Pallas Minerva. According 
to fable, Pallas was one of the Titans, of 
giant size, killed by Minerva, who flayed 
him, and used his skin for armour ; 
whence she was called Pallas Minerva. 
More likely the word Pallas is from 
pallo, to brandish; and the compound 


Palm Tree 
means Minerva who brandishes the 
spear. 
Pallet. The painter in Smollett’s 


Peregrine Pickle. A man without one 
jot of reverence for ancient customs or 
modern etiquette. 


Pal'liate (3 syl.) means simply to 
cloak, (Latin, palliwm, a cloak.) 
“That we should not dissemble nor cloke them 


four sins]... . but confess them witha humble, 
lowly, and obedient heart.’ — Commen Prayer 


Book. 

Palm. An itching palm. A hand 
ready to receive bribes. The old super- 
stition is that if your palm itches you 
are going to receive money, 

“Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself 
Are much condemned to have an itching palm.” 
Shakespeare: Julius Caesar, iv. 3. 

To bear the paln. To be the best. 
The allusion is to the Roman custom of 
giving the victorious gladiator a branch 
of the palm-tree, 


Palm Off (70) wares, tricks, ete., upon 
the unwary. The allusion is to jugglers, 
who conceal in the palm of their hand 
what they pretend to dispose of in some 
other way. These jugglers were some- 
times called palmers. 

“You may palm upon us new for old.” 
Dryden. 

Palm Oil. Bribes, or rather money 

for bribes, fees, ete. 


“Tn Jreland the machinery of a political move- 
ment will not work unless there is plenty of 
paln-oil to prevent friction.”’—Jrish Seditions from 
1792 to 1880, p. 39. 

“The rich may escape with whole skins, but 
those without ‘palm-oil’ have scant mercy,’— 
Nineteenth Century, Aug., 1892, p. 515, 

Palm Sunday. The Sunday next 
before Easter. So called in memory of 
Christ’s triumphant entry into Jerusa- 
lem, when the multitude strewed the 


way with palm branches and leaves, 
(John xii.) 

Sad Palm Sunday. March 29, 1463, 
the day of the battle of Towton, the 
most fatal of all the battles in the do- 
mestic war between the White and Red 
Roses. Above 37,000 Englishmen were 
slain. 


“ Whose hanks received the blood of many thou- 
sand men, τ 
On‘Sad Palm Sunday’ slain, that Towton field 
Ὑ6 081 --, Ξ 
The bloodiest field betwixt the White Rose and 
the Red.” 


Drayton: Polyotbion, xxviii. 


Palm Tree is said to grow faster for 
being weighed down. Hence it is the 
symbol of resolution overcoming cala- 
mity. It is believed by Orientals to 
have sprung from the residue of the clay 
of which Adam was formed, 


Palmer 


5 Panacea 


Palmer. A pilgrim privileged to 
carry a palm-staff. In Fosbroke’s Brit- 
ish Monachism we read that ‘‘ certain 
prayers and psalms being said over the 
pilgrims, as they lay prostrate before 
the altar, they were sprinkled with holy 
water, and received a consecrated palm- 
staff, Palmers differed from pilgrims in 
this respect: a pilgrim made his pil- 
grimage and returned to public or private 
life; but a palmer spent all his days 
in visiting holy shrines, and lived on 
charity. 

“ His sandals were with travel tore, 
Staff, budget, bottle, scrip he wore ; 
The faded palm-hranch in his hand 


Showed pilgrim from the Holy Land.” 
Sir Walter Scott : Marmion, 1. 27. 


Pal'merin of England. A romance 
of chivalry, in which Palmerin is the 


hero. There is another romance called 
Palmerin dz Oliva. (See Southey’s 
Palmerin.) 


Palmy Days. Prosperous or happy 
days, as those were to a victorious 
gladiator when he went to receive the 
palm branch as the reward of his 
prowess, 


Palsy. The gentlemen's palsy, ruin 
from gambling. (Llizabeth’s reign.) 

Paludamentum. A distinctive 
mantle worn by a Roman general in the 
time of war. This was the ‘‘scarlet 
robe’? in which Christ was invested. 
(Matt. xxvii. 28.) 


“They flung on him an old scarlet paludamen- 
tim—some cast-off war-cloak with its purple lati- 
clive from the Prietorian wardrobe. —farrar: 
Life of Christ, chap. lx. ). 429. 


Pam. The knave of clubs, short for 


Pamphile, the French word for the 
knave of clubs, 
© Dr. Jolmson’s derivation of Pam fron palm, 


because ‘Pam’ triumphs over other cards, is ex- 
tremely comic. Of course, Pamis short for Pim- 
phile, the French name for the knave of clubs.” 
—Notes and Queries (W. W. Skeat, 1 May, 1885), 


p. 353. 

Pam’ela. The title of the finest of 
Richardson’s novels, which once enjoyed 
a popularity almost equal to that of the 


romances of Sir Walter Scott. 


Pamela. Uady Edward Fitzgerald 
(died 1831). 
Pampas. Treeless plains, some 2,000 


‘miles long and from 300 to 500 broad, 
in South America. They cover an area 
ot 750,000 square miles, It is an Indian 
word meaning flats or plains. 


Pamper, according to Junius, is from 
the Latin pam'pinus, French pampre 
(vine-tendril). Hence Milton— 


᾿ “Where any row 
Of fruit trees, over-woody, reached too far 
sails ρα νεῦας boughs, and needed hands to 
check 


Fruitless embraces,” Paradise Lost, v. 214. 


The Italian pambera'to (well-fed) is a 
compound of pane (bread) and Jere 
(drink), 

Pamphlet, said to be from Pamphila, 
a Greek lady, whose chief work is a 
commonplace book of anecdotes, epi- 
tomes, notes, ete. Dr. Johnson suggests 
par-un-filet (held ‘‘ by a thread’’)—7.e. 
stitched, but not bound; another de- 
rivation is pag'ine fila'te (pages tacked 
together). It was anciently written 
panfletus, pamflete, and by Caxton paun- 
οί. 

Pamphyle (3 syl.). A sorceress 
who converted herself into an owl 
(Apuleius). There was another Pam- 
phyle, the daughter of Apollo, who first 
taught women tv embroider with silk. 

“Tn one very remote village lives the sorceress 
Pamphyié, who turns ber neigh}ours into various 
animals. ... Lucius, peeping ... thro’ a chink 
in the door, [saw] the old witch transform herself 
into an owl.” — Pater: Marius the Epicurean, 
chap. Vv. 

Pan. The personification of deity 
displayed in creation and pervading all 
things. As flocks and herds were the 
chief property of the pastoral age, Pan 
was called the god of flocks and herds. 
He is also called the god of hy/é, not the 
“‘woods’* only, but ‘‘all material sub- 
stances.’”? The lower part was that of 
a goat, because of the asperity of the 
earth ; the upper part was that of a 
man, because ether is the ‘‘ hegemonic 
of the world ;’’ the lustful nature of the 
god symbolised the spermatic principle 
of the world; the libbard’s skin was to 
indicate the immense variety of created 
things ; and the character of ‘‘ blameless 
Pan” symbolised that wisdom which 
governs the world. (Greek, pan, every- 
thing.) (Phornutus: De Natura De- 
oruin, XXVil, 203.) 

“Universal Pan, 
Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance, 
Led on the eternal spring.” ᾿ 
Milton: Paradise Lost, iv. 50}, 

*t In the National Museum of Naples 
is the celebrated marble of ‘‘ Pan teach- 
ing Apollo to play on the panpipe.” 

The Great Pan. Francois Marie Arouet 
de Voltaire, also called the Jictator of 
Letters. (1694-1778.) 

Panace’a. Auniversal cure. Pana- 
cea was the daughter of Escula’pios (god 
of medicine). The name is evidently 
composed of two Greek words pan- 
akeomai (all I cure). Of course the 
medicine that cures is the daughter or 
child of the healing art. 

Panace'a. An Orkney proverb says 
the well of Kildinguie and the dulse 
(sea-weed) of Guiodin will cure every 


Panama 


936 


Panel 


NNN. 


(Sir Waiter 


malady save Black Death, 
(See 


Scott: The Pirate, chap. xxix.) 
AZOTH.) 

Other fumous panaceas. 

Prince Ahmed’s apple, or apple of 
Samarcand, cured all disorders, (See 
under APPLE.) 

The balsam of Fierabras (q.v.). 

The Prome’thean unguent rendered 
the body invulnerable. 

Aladdin’sring (q.v.) was a preservative 
against all the ills which flesh is heir to, 

Sir Gilbert’s sword. Sir T. Malory, 
in his History of Prince Arthur (i. 116), 
says :— 

“Sir Launcelot touched the wounds of Sir 
Meliot with Sir Gilbert’s sword, and wiped them 
with the cerecloth, and anon a wholler man was 
he neyer in all his life.” 

(See also ACHILLES’ SPEAR, MEDEA’S 
KETLLE, REYNARD’S RING [sce RING], 
PAN’THERA, etc.) 


Panama’. A word which, in 1892, 
became synonymous with government 
corruptions. M. de Lesseps undertook 
to cut a sea passage through the Isthmus 
of Panama, and in order to raise money 
irom the general public, bribed French 
senators, deputies, and editors of jour- 
nals to an enormous extent. An in- 
vestigation was made into the matter in 
1892, and the results were most damag- 
ing. Inthe beginning of 1893 Germany 
was charged with a similar misappro- 
priation of money connected with the 
Guelph Fund, in which Prince Ludwig 
of Bavaria was involved, 

“On the other side of the Vosges people will 


exult that Germany has also her Panama.”— 
Reuters Telegram, Berlin, January 2nd, 1893. 


Pancake (2 syl.) is a> pudding or 
“cake’’? madein a frying-pan. It was 
criginally to be eaten after dinner, to 
stay the stomachs of those who went to 
be shriven. The Shrove-bell was called 
the Pancake Bell, and the day of shriving 
‘** Pancake Tuesday.”’ 


Pancaste (3 syl.). An Athenian 
hetera, and her companion in sin, 
Phryné, were the models of Venus Rising 
Jrom the Sea, by Apellés. (See PHRYNE.) 


Pancras (S¢.). Patron saint of chil- 
dren. He was a noble Roman youth, 
martyred by Diocle’tian at the age of 
fourteen (A.D. 804). (See ΝΊΟΘΗΟΙ ΑΒ.) 


St. Pancras, in Christian art, is repre- 
sented as treading on a Saracen and 
Learing either a stone and sword, or a 
book and palm-branch. The allusions 
are to his hatred of infidelity, and the 
implements of his martyrdom, 


Pan'darus. Leader of the Lycians 
in the Trojan war, but represented as 
a pimp in medieval romances. (See 
PANDER. ) 

Pandects of Justin ian (71), found 
at Amalfi (1137), gave a spur to the 
study of civil law which changed the 
whole literary and legal aspect of 
Europe. The word means much the 
same as ‘ cyclopedia.’”? (Greek, pan, 
everything ; dech’-omai, I receive.) 

Pandemo’nium (4). 4 perfect pan- 
demonium. A bear-garden for disorder 
and licentiousness. In allusion to the 
parliament of hell in Milton’s Paradise 
Lost, book i. (Greek, pan daimon, every 
demon.) (Sze CORDELIERS, ) 


Pander. 170 pander to one’s vices is 
to act as an agent to them, and such an 
agent is termed a pander, from Pan’- 
dirus, who procures for Tro’ilus the love 
and graces of Cressida. In Mach Ado 
about Nothing it is said that Troilus was 
‘‘ the first employer of pandars”’ (v. 2). 
(Shakespeare : Troilus and Cressida ; 
Chaucer : Troilus and Cresseide.) 

“Let all pitiful goers-hetween he called to 
the world’s end after my name, call them all 
*Pandars,’ Let all constant men be * Trovluses,’ 
all false women be ‘Cressids, and all brokers- 
between, ‘Pandars.’ Say, Amen.’—Troilus and 
Cressida, ill. 2. 

Pando’ra’s Box (4). A present 
which seems valuable, but which is in 
reality a curse; as when Midas was 
permitted, according to his request, to 
turn whatever he touched into gold, and 
found his very food became gold, and 
therefore uneatable. Prometheus made 
an image and stole fire from heaven to 
endow it with life. In revenge, Jupiter 
told Vulcan to make a female statue, 
and gave her a box which she was to 
present to the man who married her. 
Prometheus distrusted Jove and_ his 
gifts, but Epime'theus, his brother, 
married the beautiful Pando’ra, and 
received the box. Immediately the 
bridegroom opened the box all the evils 
that flesh is heir to flew forth, and have 
ever since continued to afflict the world, 
The last thing that flew from the box 
was Hope. 

Panel (4), means simply a piece of 
rag or skin. (Latin, pannus ; Greek, 
pe'nos.) In law it means a piece of 
parchment containing the names of 
jurors. Zo empanel a jury is to enter 
their names on the panel or roll. The 
panels of a room are the framed wains- 
cot which supplies the place of tapestry, 
aud the panels of doors are the thin 
boards like wainscot, 


Pangloss 


937 Pantagruelion Herb 


Pangloss (J.). A learned pedant, 
very poor and very conceited, pluming 
himself on the titles of LL.D. and A.SS. 
(Greek, ‘‘ All-tongue.”’) (Colman: Heir- 
at-Law.) 


Pan'ic. On one occasion Bacchus, 
in his Indian expeditions, was encom- 
passed with an army far superior to his 
own ; one of his chief captains, named 
Pan, advised him to command all his 
men at the dead of night to raise a 
simultaneous shout. The shout was 
rolled from mountain to mountain by 
innumerable echoes, and the Indians, 
thinking they were surrounded on all 
sides, took to sudden flight. From this 
incident, all sudden fits of great terror 
have been termed panics. (Sce Judges 
vii. 18-21.) 

Theon gives another derivation, and 
says that the god Pan struck terror into 
the hearts of the giants, when they 
warred against heaven, by blowing into 
a sea-shell. 


Panjan’drum. The Grand Panjan- 
drum. A village boss, who imagines 
himself the ‘‘ Magnus Apollo’’ of his 
neighbours. The word occurs in Foote’s 
farrago of nonsense which he composed 
to test the memory of old Macklin, who 
said he had brought his memory to such 
perfection that he could remember any- 
thing by reading it over once. 

*. Lmyself knew a man at college who could do 
the same. He would repeat accurately one bun- 
dred lines of Greek by reading them twice over, 
although he could not accurately translate them. 
His memory was marvellous, but its uselessness 
was still more so. 

Pan’tables. 170. stand upon one’s 
pantables. ‘To stand upon one’s dignity. 
Pantables are slippers, and the idea is 
se tenir sur le haut bout—i.e. to remit 
nothing. 

“Hee standeth upon his pantables,and regardeth 
greatly his reputation.”—Saker : Narbonus (1590). 

Pantag’ruel’. So called because he 
was born during the drought which 
lasted thirty and six months, three 
weeks, four days, thirteen hours, and 
a little more, in that year of grace 
noted for having “three Thursdays in 
one week,’’ His father was Gargantua, 
the giant, who was four hundred four- 
score and forty-four years old at the 
time ; his mother, Badebec, died in 
giving him birth; his grandfather was 
Grangousier (7.v.)._ He was so strong 
that he was chained in his cradle with 
four great iron chains, like those used in 
ships of the largest size; being angry at 
this, he stamped out the bottom of his 
bassanet, which was made of weavers’ 


beams, and, when loosed by the ser- 
vants, broke his bonds into five hundred 
thousand pieces with one blow of his 
infant fist. When he grew to manhood 
he knew all languages, all sciences, 
and all knowledge of every sort, out- 
Solomoning Solomon in wisdom. Having 
defeated Anarchus, King of the Dip- 
sodes, all submitted except the Al- 
mirods. Marching against these people, 
a heavy rain fell, and Pantagruel covered 
his whole army with his tongue. While 
so doing, Alcofri’bas crawled into his 
mouth, where he lived six months, 
taking toll of every morsel that his lord 
ate. His immortal achievement was his 
voyage from Uto’pia in quest of the 
“ oracle of the Holy Bottle” (q.7.). 


“‘Wouldst thou not issue forth... 
To see the third part in this earthy cell 
Of the brave acts of good Pantag’ruel’.” 
Rabelais: To the Spirit of the Queen of Navarre. 
~ Pantagruel was the last of the race 
of giants. 
“My thirst with Pantagruel’s own would rank.” 
—Punch, June 15th, 1893, p. 17. 

Pantag’ruel’ Qneaut for Henri IT., son 
of Francois I.), in the satirical romance 
of Rabelais, entitled MHistory of Gar- 
gantua and Pantagrucel. 


Pantagruelion. Zhe great Pantay'- 
ruelion law case (Lord Busqueue rv. Lord 
Suckfist). This case, having nonplussed 
all the judges in Paris, was referred to 
Lord Pantagruel for decision. The 
writs, ete., were as much as four asses 
could carry, but the arbiter determined 
to hear the plaintiff and defendant state 
their own cases. Lord Busqueue spoke 
first, and pleaded such a rigmarole that 
no one on earth could unravel its mean- 
ing; Lord Suckfist replied, and the 
bench declared ‘* We have not under- 
stood one single circumstance of the 
defence.’? Then Pantagruel gave sen- 
tence, but his judgment was as obscure 
and unintelligible as the case itself. So, 
as no one understood a single sentence 
of the whole affair, all were perfectly 
satisfied, a ‘‘thing unparalleled in the 


annals of the law.”’ (ttabelais : Pantag- 
ruel, book ii.) 
Pantagruelion Herb (7)ε). 


Hemp; so called ‘‘ because Pantagruel 
was the inventor of a certain use which 
it serves for, exceeding hateful to felons, 
unto whom it is more hurtful than 
strangle-weed to flax.”’ 


“The figure and shape of the leaves are not 
much different from those of the ash-tree or the 
agrimony, the her) itself being so like the Eupa- 
to’rio that many herbalists have called it the 
‘Domestic Eupatorio, and the Eupatorio the 
‘Wild Pantagruelion.’” — Rabelais: Pantagruel, 
111,49, 


Pantaloon 


938 Panurge 


Pantaloon. A _ feeble-minded old 
man, the foil of the clown, whom he 
aids and abets in all his knavery. The 
word is derived from the dress he used 
to wear, a loose suit down to the heels. 

“That Licentio that comes a-wooing is my man 
Tranio bearing my port, that we might beguile 
the old pantaloon.’—Shukespeare: Tuming of the 
Shrew, il. 1. 

Pantaloon. Word Byron says the Ve- 
netians were called the Planters of the 
Lion—i.e, the Lion of St. Mark, the 
standard of the republic; and further 
tells us that the character of ‘‘ panta- 
loon,’”’ being Venetian, was called Pian- 
tuleone (Planter of the Lion). (Childe 
Harold, bk. iv. stanza 14, note 9.) 

Playing Pantaloon, Playing second 
fiddle ; being the cat’s-paw of another ; 
servilely imitating. 

Pantechnicon. A place where all 
sorts of manufactured articlesare exposed 
for sale; a storehouse for furniture. 


Panthe'a, wife of Abradatus, King of 
Susa. Abradatus joined the Assyrians 
against Cyrus, and his wife was taken 
captive. Cyrus refused to visit her, that 
he might not be tempted by her beauty 
to outstep the bounds of modesty. Ab- 
radatus was so charmed by this con- 
tinence that he joined the party of 
Cyrus, and, being slain in battle, his wife 
put an end to her life, and fell on the 
body of her husband. 

“Here stands Lady Rachel Russell—there the 
arch-virago old Bess of Hardwicke. The one is 
our English version of Panthés of Arria; the 
other of Xantip)é in a coif and peaked sto- 
inacher.”“—Mrs. Lynn Linton: Nineteenth Century, 
Oct., 1891, p. 605. 

Panthe'a (Greek), Statues carrying 
symbols of several deities, as in the 
medal of Antoni’‘nus Pius, where Sera’pis 
is represented by a imodins, Apollo by 
rays, Jupiter Ammon by vamn’s horns, 
Pluto by a large beard, and Ascula’pius 
by a wand, around which a serpent is 
twined. 


Panthe’on. The finest is that erected 
in Rome by Agrippa (son-in-law of 
Augustus). It is circular, 150 feet in 
diameter, and the same in height. It is 
now a church, with statues of heathen 
gods, and is called the Rotunda. In 
Paris the Pantheon was the church of 
St. Genevitve, built by Louis XV., 
finished 1790. Next year the Conven- 
tion called it the Pantheon, and set it 
apart as the shrine of those Frenchmen 
whom their country wished to honour 
(Saux grands hommes la patrie reconnais- 
sante”). (Greek, pantes theoi, all the 
gods.) 


Panther. The Spotted Panther in 
Dryden’s Hind and Panther means the 
Church of England fuil of the spots of 
error; whereas the Church of Rome is 
faultless as the milk-white hind. 

“ The panther, sure the noblest next the hind, 

And fairest creature of the spotted kind; 

Oh, could her inborn stains be washed away, 

She were too good to be a beast of prey.” _ 

Part 1. 

Pan'thera. A hypothetical beast 
which lived in the East. Reynard af- 
firmed that he had sent her majesty the 
queen a comb made of panthera bone, 
“more lustrous than the rainbow, more 
odoriferous than any perfume, a charm 
against every ill, and a universal pana- 
cea.” (H. von Alkmar: Reynard the 
Fox.) (1498.) 

She wears a comb made of panthera bone. 
She is all perfection. (See above.) 


Pantile Shop. A mecting-house, 
from the fact that dissenting chapels were 
often roofed with pantiles. Hence pan- 
tile was used in the sense of dissenting. 
Mrs. Centlivre, in the Gortiam Election, 
contrasts the pantile crew with a good 
churchman. 


Pan'tomime (3 syl.), according to 
etymology, should be a// dumb show, 
but in modern practice it is partly dumb 
show and partly grotesque speaking. 
Harlequin and Columbine never speak, 
but Clown and Pantaloon keep up a 
constant fire of fun, Dr. Clarke says 
that Harlequin is the god Mercury, with 
his short sword called ‘‘ herpé;’’ he is 
supposed to be invisible, and to be able 
to transport himself to the ends of the 
earth as quick as thought. Columbine, 
he says, is Psyche (the soul); the old 
man is Charon; and the Clown Jomas 
(the buffoon of heaven), whose large 
gaping mouth is an imitation of the 
ancient masks. (Zavels, iv. 459.) 

The best Roman pantomimists were 
Bathylus (a freedman of Meecénas), Py- 
ladés, and Hylas. 


Panton Gates. Old as Panton Gates. 
A corruption of Pandon Gates at New- 
castle-on-Tyne, 


Pantry. (French, pancterie (2 syl.) ; 
Latin, panarium, from panis, bread.) 
An archaic form is ‘‘ panary.’’ The 
keeper of a pantry was at one time 
called a ‘‘ panterer.”? (French, pan- 
terer.) 

Panurge (2 syl.). A companion of 
Pantag’ruel’s, not unlike our Rochester 
and Buckingham in the reign of the 
mutton-eating king. Panurge was a 


Panyer Stone 


desperate rake, was always in debt, had 
a dodge for every scheme, knew every- 
thing and something more, was a boon 
companion of the mirthfullest temper 
and most licentious bias ; but was timid 
of danger, and a desperate coward. He 
enters upon ten thousand adventures 
for the solution of this knotty point. 
‘Whether or not he ought to marry ?”’ 
and although every response is in the 
negative, disputes the ostensible mean- 
ing, and stoutly maintains that no means 
yes. (Greek for factotum.) (Rabelais.) 

Panurge, probably meant for Calvin, 
though some think it is Cardinal Lor- 
raine. He is a licentious, intemperate 
libertine. a coward and knave. Of 
course, the satire points to the celibacy 
of the clergy. 

“Sam Slick is the thoroughbred Yank7e, bold, 
cunning, and. above alla merchant. Inshort, he 
isa sort of Republican Panurge.” —Globe. 

As Panurge asked if he should marry. 
Asking advice merely to contradict the 
giver of it. Panurge asked Pantag’rucl’ 
whether he advised him to marry, 
“Yes,” said Pantagruel. When Panurge 
urged some strong objection, ‘‘ Then 
don’t marry,”’ said Pantagruel ; to which 
the favourite replied, ‘‘ His whole heart 
was bent on so doing.’”? ‘* Marry then, 
by all means,”’ said the prince, but Pan- 
urge again found some insuperable bar- 
rier. And so they went on; every time 
Pantagruel said ‘ Yea,’? new reasons 
were found against this advice; and 
every time he said ‘‘ Nay,’’ reasons no 
less cogent were discovered for the 
affirmative. (Zabelais: Gargantua and 
Pantagruel, bk. 11. 9.) 

* Besides Pantag’ruel’, Panurge con- 
sulted lots, dreams, a sibyl, a deaf and 
dumb man, the old poet Rominagrobis, 
the chiromancer Herr Trippa, the theo- 
logian Hippothadée, the physician Ron- 
dib’ilis, the philosopher Trouillogan, the 
court fool Triboulet, and, lastly, the 
Oracle of the Holy Bottle. 


Panyer Stone (7/c). <A stone let 
into the wall of a house in Panyer Alley. 
It is a rude representation of a boy 
sitting on a pannier. (French, panier ; 
Latin, panarium, a bread-basket.) The 
stone has the following inscription : — 

“When you have sought the city round, 
Yet still this is the highest ground. 
August 27th, 1688." 

Σ This is not correct, for there are 
higher spots both in Cornhill, and in 
Cannon Street. 


Pap. Tle gives pap with a hatchet. 
He does or says a kind thing in a very 
brusque and ungracious manner. The 


939 Par 


Spartan children were fed by the point 
of a sword, and the Teuton children 
with hatchets, or instruments so called— 
probably of the doll type. ‘‘ Ursus,”’ in 
Victor Hugo's novel of “ LZ’ Homme qui 
Rit,” gives ‘‘ pap with a hatchet.” 

Papa, Father. The former is Greek 
pappas (father); Chaldee, abba. For 
many centuries after the Conquest, the 
““gentry’’ taught their children to use 
the word ‘‘papa,’’? but this custom is 
now almost gone out. 


Papal Slippers (716) are wrought 
with a cross of rubies over each instep. 

Paper. So called from the papy’rus 
or Egyptian reed used at one time for 
the manufacture of a writing material, 
Bryan Donkin, in 1893, perfected a 
machine for making a sheet of paper to 
any required length. 


Paper a House (70). in theatrical 
phraseology, means to fill a house with 
‘* deadheads,”’ or non-paying spectators, 
admitted by paper orders. The women 
admitted thus, not being dressed so 
smartly as the paying ones, used to 
cover their shoulders with a “ scarlet 
opera cloak,’’ often lent or hired for the 
occasion. 


Paper King. John Law, the pro- 
jector of the Mississippi Scheme. (1671- 
1729.) 

Paper Marriages. Weddings of 
dons, who pay their fees in bank-notes. 


Paper-stainer (1). 
small repute. 


Paph'iian. Relating to Venus, or 
rather to Paphos, a city of Cyprus, where 
Venus was worshipped; a Cyprian; a 
prostitute. 


Papimany. The country of the 
Papimans; the country subject to the 
Pope, or any priest-ridden country, as 
Spain. (Rabelais: Gargantua and Pantag'- 
ruel, iv. 45.) 

Parpy'ra. The goddess of printing; 
so called from papy’rus, the Nile-reed, 
from which at one time paper was made, 
and from which it borrows its name. 

“ Till to astonished realms Papyra taught 
To paint in mystic colours sound and thought, 
With Wisdom’s voice to print the page sublime, 
And mark in adamant the steps of Time.” 
Darwin: Loves of the Plants, canto ii. 

Papy'ri. Written scrolls made of 
the Papy’rus, found in Egypt and Her- 
cula’neum. 


Par. (A). 
(Press slang.) 


An author of 


A newspaper paragraph. 


Par 


940 


Paradise 


Par (47). Stock at par means that 
it is to be bought at the price it repre- 
sents. Thus, £100 stock in the 24 per 
cent. quoted at par would mean that it 
would require £100 to invest in this 
stock ; if quoted at £105, it would be £5 
above par; if at £95, it would be £0 
below par. (Latin, par, equal.) 

Paracel'sists. Disciples of Para- 
celsus in medicine, physics, and mystic 
sciences. A Swiss physician, (1493-1541.) 

Paraclete. The advocate ; one called 
to aid or support another. (The word 
paraclete is from the Greek para-kaleo, 
to call to; and advocate is from the 
Latin ad-voco, the same thing.) 


Paradise. The Greeks used this 


word to denote the extensive parks and | 


pleasure-grounds of the Persian kings. 
(Persian, pardés; Greek, paradeisos.) 
(See CALAYA.) 

“An old word,‘ paradise, which the Hebrews 
lad borrowed from the Persians, and which at 
first designated the ‘parks of the Achwmenide, 
summed up the general dream.’—Renan: Life of 
Jesus, Xi. 

Upper and Lower Paradise. The 
rabbins say there is an earthly or lower 
paradise under the equator, divided 
into seven dwellings, and twelve times 
ten thousand miles square. A column 
reaches from this paradise to the upper 
or heavenly one, by which the souls 
mount upwards after a short sojourn on 
the earthly one. 

The ten dumb animals admitted to the 
Moslems paradise are :— 

(1) The dog Kratim, which accom- 
panied the Seven Sleepers, 

(2) Balaam’s ass, which spoke with the 
voice of a man to reprove the disobedient 
prophet. 

(5) Solomon’s ant, of which he said, 
“Go to the ant, thou sluggard . . .”’ 

(4) Jonah’s whale. 

(5) The ram caught in the thicket, and 
offered in sacrifice in lieu of Isaac. 

(5) The calf of Abraham. 

(7) The camel of Saleb. 

(8) The cuckoo of Belkis. 

(9) The ox of Moses. 

(10) Mahomet’s mare, called Borak. 


Paradise Lost. Satan rouses the 
panic-stricken host of fallen angels to 
tell them about a rumour current in 
Heaven of a new world about to be 
created. He calls a council to deliberate 
what should be done, and they agree to 
send Satan to search out for the new 
world, Satan, passing the gulf between 
Hell and Heaven and the limbo of 
Vanity, enters the orb of the Sun (in 


the guise of an angel) to make in- 
quiries as to the new planet’s where- 
abouts ; and, having obtained the neces- 
sary information, alights on Mount 
Nipha’tés, and goes to Paradise in the 
form of a cormorant. Seating himself 
on the Tree of Life, he overhears Adam 
and Eve talking about the prohibition 
made by God, and at once resolves upon 
the nature of his attack. Gabriel sends 
two angels to watch over the bower of 
Paradise, and Satan flees. Raphael is 
sent to warn Adam of his danger, and 
tells him the story of Satan’s revolt and 
expulsion out of Heaven, and why and 
how this world was made, After a time 
Satan returns to Paradise in the form 
of a mist, and, entering the serpent, 
induces Eve to eat of the forbidden 
fruit. Adam eats ‘* that he may perish 
with the woman whom he loved.”’? Satan 
returns to Hell to tell his triumph, and 
Michael is sent to lead the guilty pair 
out of the garden. (JMi/ton.) 


Paradise Regained (in four books). 
The subject is the Temptation. Eve, 
being tempted, fell, and lost Paradise ; 
Jesus, being tempted, resisted, and re- 
gained Paradise. (Jfi/ton.) 


Paradise Shoots. The lign aloe; 
said to be the only plant descended to 
us from the Garden of Eden. When 
Adam left Paradise, it is said, he took 
with him a shoot of this tree, which he 
planted in the land where he settled, 
and from which all other lign aloes have 
been propagated, 


Paradise of Fools. The Hindus, 
Mahometans, Scandinavians, and Roman 
Catholics have devised a place between 
Paradise and ‘‘ Purgatory ᾽ to get rid of. 
a theological difficulty. If there is no 
sin without intention, then infants and 
idiots cannot commit sin, and if they die 
cannot be consigned to the purgatory of 
evil-doers ; but, not being believers or 
good-doers, they cannot be placed with 
the saints. The Roman Catholics place 
them in the Paradise of Infants and the 
Paradise of Fools. 


Paradise and the Pe’ri. The second 
tale in Moore’s poetical romance of 
Lalla Rookh, The Peri laments. her 
expulsion from Heaven, and is told she 
will be readmitted if she will bring to 
the Gate of Heaven the ‘‘ gift most dear 
to the Almighty.”’ ist she went to a 
battle-field, where the tyrant Mahmoud, 
having won a victory, promised life to 
a young warrior, but the warrior struck 
the tyrant with a dart, The wound, 


Parallel 


941 


Pardouneres 


however, was not mortal, so ‘‘ The tyrant 
lived, the hero fell.’”’ The Peri took to 
Heaven’s Gate the last drop of the 
patriot’s blood as her offering, but the 
gates would not open to her, Newt she 
flew to Egypt, where the plague was 
raging, and saw a young man dying ; 
presently his betrothed bride sought him 
out, caught the disease, and both died, 
The Peri took to Heaven’s Gate the last 
sigh of that self-sacrificed damsel, but 
the offering was not good enough to 
open the gates to her. Lastly, she flew 
to Syria, and there saw an innocent 
child and guilty old man. The vesper 
call sounded, and the child knelt down 
to prayer. The old man wept with re- 
pentance, and knelt to pray beside the 
child, The Peri offered the Mepentant 
Tear, and the gates flew open to receive 
the gift. 

Parallel. None but himself can be 
his parallel. Wholly without a peer; 
“ Queris Alcide parem ν᾽ ‘nemo prox- 
imus nee secundus.’’ There are many 
similar sentences ; for example :— 

_ “Nemo est, nisi ipse.”—Seneca : Hercules Purens, 
i. 81. (Seneca lived B.C, 58-32.) 
“And but herself admits no parallel.” 


Massinger : Duke of Millaine, ui. 4. (1662.) 
“None but himself himself can parallel.” 
Anagram on John Lilburn. (1658.) 


“Ts there a treachery like this in baseness... 
None but itself can be its parallel.” 


Theobald: Double Falsehood, iii. 1. (1721) 


Paramatta. A fabric of wool and 
cotton. So called from a town in New 


South Wales, where the wool was ori- 
ginally bought. 


Parapet. Fortification, the shot- 
proof covering of a mass of earth on the 
exterior edge of the ramparts. The 
openings cut through the parapets to 
permit guns to fire in the required direc- 
tion are called embrasures: about 18 
feet is allowed from one embrasure to 
another, and the solid intervening part 
is called the mento. An indented para- 
pet isa battlement. (Italian, parapelto, 
breastwork. ) 


Paraphernalia means all that a 
Woman can claim at the death of her 
husband beyond her jointure. In the 
Roman law her paraphernalia included 
the furniture of her chamber, her wear- 
ing apparel, her jewels, etc. Hence 
personal attire, fittmgs generally, any- 
thing for show or decoration. (Greek, 
parapherne, beyond dower.) 


Par’asite (Greek, para sitos, eating 
at another’s cost). A plant or animal 
that lives on another ; hence a hanger-on, 


who fawns and flatters for the sake of 
his food. 


Pare aux Cerfs [idecr paris]. A 
mansion fitted up in a remote corner of 
Versailles, whither girls were inveigled 
for the licentious pleasure of Louis XV. 
The rank of the person who visited 
them was scrupulously kept concealed ; 
but one girl, more bold than the rest, 
rifled the pockets of M. le Comte, and 
found that he was no other than the 
king. Madame de Pompadour did not 
shrink from superintending the labours 
of the royal valets to procure victims for 
this infamous establishment. The term 
is now used for an Alsa’tia, or haven of 
shipwrecked characters. 

“Boulogne may be proud of being ‘pare aie 
cerfs’ to those whom remorseless greed drives 
from their island home.”"—Saturday Review, 

Parez. The Fates. The three were 
Clotho, Lach’esis, and At’ropos. (Latin 
mythology.) Pare is from pars, a lot; 
and the corresponding Moir is from 
meros, a lot. The Fates were so called 
because they decided the lot of every 
man, 


Parchment. So called from Per’- 
gamon in Lesser Asia, where it was used 
for purposes of writing when Ptol’emy 
prohibited the exportation of paper from 
Egypt. 


Par:ion Bell. The Angélus bell. So 
called because of the indulgence once 
given for reciting certain prayers form- 
ing the angels. 


Par’douneres Tale, in Chaucer, is 
Death and the Rioters. Three rioters 
ina tavern agreed to hunt down Death 
and kill him. As they went their way 
they met an old man, who told them 
that he had just left him sitting under a 
tree in the lane close by. Off posted the 
three rioters, but when they came to the 
tree they found a great treasure, which 
they agreed to divide equally. They 
cast lots which was to carry it home, 
and the lot fell to the youngest, who 
was sent to the village to buy food and 
wine. While he was gone the two who 
were left agreed to kill him, and so in- 
crease their share; but the third bought 
poison to put into the wine, in order to 
kill his two confréres. On his return 
with his stores, the two set upon him 
and slew him, then sat down to drink 
and be merry together; but, the wine 
being poisoned, all the three rioters 
found Death under the tree as the old 
man had said. 


Pari Passu 


Parisina 


Pari Passu. At the same time; in 
equal degrees; two or more schemes 
carried on at once and driven forward 
with equal energy, are said to be carried 
on pari pass, which is Latin for equal 
strides or the equally measured pace of 
persons marching together. 

“The cooling effects of surrounding matter go 
on nearly pari passu with the heating.’—Grove : 
Correlation of Physical Forces, p. 64. 

Pa'rian Chronicle. A chronological 
register of the chief events in the 
mythology and history of ancient Greece 
during a series of 1,318 years, beginning 
with the reign of Cecrops, and ending 
with the archonship of Diogne’tos. Itis 
engraved on Parian marble, and was 
found in the island of Paros. It is one 
of the Arunde’lian Marbles (q.v.). 


Pa'rian Verse. Ill-natured satire; 
so called from Archil’ochos, a native of 
Paros. 


Pa/rias or Par'iahs. The lowest 
class of the Hindu population, below the 
four castes. Literally drummers, from 
parai, a large drum. 


Pariidel. A young gentleman that 
travels about and seeks adventure, be- 
cause he is young, rich, and at leisure. 
(See below.) 

“Thee, too, my Paridel, she marked thee there, 
Stretched on the rack of a too-easy chair, 
And heard thy everlasting yawn confess 
The yains and penalties of idleness.” _ 

Pope: Dunciad, iy. 341. 

Sir Paridel. A male coquette, whose 
delight was to win women’s hearts, and 
then desert them. The model was the 
Earl of Westmoreland. (Spenser: Facrie 
Queene, bk. iti. cant. 10; bk. iv. ὁ. 1.) 


Paris or Alexander. Son of Priam, 
and cause of the siege of Troy. He was 
hospitably entertained by Menela’os, 
King of Sparta; and eloped with Helen, 
his host’s wife. This brought about the 
siege. Post-Homeric tradition says that 
Paris slew Achilles, and was _ himself 
slain either by Pyrrhos or Philocte'tés. 
(Homer ; Iliad.) 

Paris. Kinsman to the Prince of Ve- 
ro’na, the unsuccessful suitor of Juliet. 
(Shakespeare : Romeo and Juliet.) 

Paris, Rabelais says that Gargantua 
played on the Parisians who came to 
stare at him a practical joke, and the 
men said it was a sport ‘‘ par ris’’ (to 
be laughed at) ; wherefore the city was 
called Par-’is. It was called before 
Leuco’tia, from the ‘‘ white skin of the 


ladies.”? (Greek, /eukétes, whiteness, ) 
(Gargantua and Pantagruel, bk. i. 17.) 

Paris, called by the Romans “ Lute’tia 
Parisio’rum’’ (the mud-city of the 
Parisii). The Parisii were the Gallic 
tribe which dwelt in the ‘‘ Ile du Palais ”’ 
when the Romans invaded Gaul, (Sve 
1515.) 

Mons. de Paris. 
tioner of Paris. 

Little Paris. 

The ““ Galleria Vittorio Emanuele ’”’ of 
Milan is so called on account of its 
brilliant shops, its numerous cafés, and 
its general gay appearance. 

Brussels, the capital of Belgium, situ- 
ate on the Senne, is also called ‘ Little 
Paris.”’ 

Paris-Garden. <A bear-garden; a 
noisy, disorderly place. In allusion to 
the bear-garden so called on the ‘Thames 
bank-side, kept by Robert de Paris in 
the reign of Richard 11. 

“Do you take the court for a Paris-garden ?"— 
Shakespeare: Henry VI1i., v.3. 

Parish Registers. Bills of mor- 
tality. George Crabbe, author of Zhe 
Borough, has a poem in three parts, in 
ten-syllable verse with rhymes, entitled 
The Parish Register. 

Parisian. Made at Paris; after the 
mode of Paris; a native of Paris; like a 
native of Paris. 


Parisian Wedding (7Zice). The 
massacre of St. Bartholomew, part of 
the wedding festivity at the marriage 
ot Henri of Navarre and Margaret of 
France. 

“Charles IX., although it was not possible for 
him to recall to life the countless vietims of 
the Parisian Wedding, was ready to explain those 
murders to every unprejudiced mind,”"—Motley : 
Dutch Republic, iil. 9. 

Parisienne (J). A celebrated song 
by Casimir Delavigne, called the JMJar- 
seillaise of 1830. 

“Paris n’a plus qu'un cri de gloire: 
En avant marchons, 
Contre leurs canons. | 
A travers le feu des battaillons, 
Courons a la victoire !” 

Parisi‘na, the beautiful young wife of 
Azo. She falls in love with Hugo, her 
stepson, and betrays herself to her 
husband in a dream. _Azo condemns 
his son to be executed, but the fate 
of Parisina, says Byron, is unknown. 
(Parisina.) 

Frizzi, in his History of Ferrara, tells 
us that Parisi’na Malatesta was_ the 
second wife of Niccolo, Marquis of Este ; 
that she fell in love with Ogo, her step- 
son, and that the infidelity of Parisina 
was revealed by a servant named Zoe’sé, 


The publie execu- 


Parizade 


He says that both Ogo and Parisina 
were beheaded, and that the marquis 
commanded all the faithless wives he 
knew to be beheaded to the Moloch of 
his passion. 


Pariza’de (4 syl.). A lady whose 
adventures in search of the Talking Bird, 
Singing Tree, and Yellow Water, are 
related in the Story of the Sisters who 
Envied their Younger Sister, in the 
Arabian Nights. This tale has been 
closely imitated in Chery and Fairstar 
(q.2.)- 

Parkership. The office of pound- 
keeper; from parcus (a pound). 


Parks. There are in England 334 
parks stocked with deer; red deer are 
kept in 91 οὗ them. The oldest is Eridge 
Park, in Sussex, called in Domesda 
Book Iteredfelle (Rotherfield). | The 
largest private deer park is Lord Eger- 
ton’s, Tatton, in Cheshire, which contains 
2,500 acres. Blenheim Park contains 
2,800 acres, but only 1,150 acres of it are 
open to deer. Almost as extensive as 
Tatton Park are Richmond Park, in Sur- 
rey ; Eastwell Park, in Kent; Grims- 
thorpe Park, in Lincolnshire ; Thoresby 
Park, in Notts ; and Knowesley Park, in 
Lancashire. (2. P. Shirley: English 
Deer Parks.) Woburn Park is 3,500 


acres, 


Parlance. Jn common parlance. In 
the usual or vulgar phraseology. An 
English-French word ; the French have 
parler, parlant, parlage, ete.—to speak, 
speaking, talk—but not parlance. 


Parlement (French). A crown court, 
where, in the old régime, councillors 
were allowed to plead, and where justice 
was administered in the king’s name. 
The Paris Parlement received appeals 
from all inferior tribunals, but its own 
judgments were final. It took cogni- 
sance of all offences against the crown, 
the peers, the bishops, the corporations, 
and all high officers of state ; and, though 
it had no legislative power, had to 7e- 
gister the royal edicts before they could 
become law. Abolished by the Con- 
stituent Assembly in 1790. 


Parliament. 


“My Lord Coke tells us Parliament is derived 
from’ parler le ment’ (to speak one’s mind). He 
might as honestly have taught us that firmament 
is ‘firma mentis’ (a farm for the mind), or ‘ funda- 
ment’ the bottom of the mind.”—dymer: On 
Parliaments, 


The Addled Parliament (between April 
5th, 1614, and June 7th, 1615) ; so called 
because it remonstrated with the king 


94 


9 


3 Parliament 


b 


on his levying ‘‘benevolences,’’ but 
passed no acts. 

The Barebone Parliament. The Parlia- 
ment convened July 4th, 1653; over- 
ridden by Praise-God Barebone. 

The Black Parliament. Held by Henry 
VIII. in Bridewell. 

The Club Parliament. 
MENT OF Barts.) 

The Convention Parliament. Two Par- 
liaments were so called: one in 1660, 
because it was not held by the order of 
the king, but was convened by General 
Monk; the second was convened Janu- 
ary 22nd, 1689, to confer the crown on 
William and Mary. 

The Devil's Parliament. The Parlia- 
ment convened at Coventry by Henry 
VI., in 1459, which passed attainders on 
the Duke of York and his supporters. 

The Drunken Parliament. The Parlia- 
ment assembled at Edinburgh, January 
Ist, 1661, of which Burnet says the 
members ‘‘ were almost perpetually 
drunk,”’ 

The Good Parliament (1376, in the 
reign of Edward III., while the Black 
Prince was still alive). So called from 
the severity with which it pursued the 
unpopular party of the Duke of Lan- 
caster. 

Grattan’s Parliament (1782-1801). In 
1782 Grattan moved the ‘‘ Declaration 
of Rights,’’ repudiating the right of 
the British Parliament to interfere in 
the government of Ireland. Pitt pro- 
nounced the Parliament unworkable. 

The Illiterate or Lack-learning Parlia- 
ment. (See UNLEARNED PARLIAMENT.) 

The Little Parliament. Same as ‘‘ the 
Barebone Parliament’? (4.7.). 

The Long Parliament sat 12 years and 
5 months, from November 2nd, 1640, to 
April 20th, 1653, when it was dissolved by 
Cromwell ; but a fragment of it, called 
“The Rump,” continued till the Res- 
toration, in 1660. 

Historian of the Long Parliament. 
Thomas May, buried in Westminster 
Abbey. (1595-1650.) 

The Mad Parliament, in the reign of 
Henry III. (1258), was so called from its 
opposition to the king. It insisted on his 
confirming the Magna Charta, and even 
appointed twenty-four of its own mem- 
bers, with Simon de Montfort as presi- 
dent, to administer the government. 

The Merciless (or Unmerciful) Parlia- 
ment (from February 3rd to June 3rd, 
1388). A junto of fourteen tools of 
Thomas, Duke of Gloucester, which 
assumed royal prerogatives, and at- 
tempted to depose Richard II, 


(See PARLIA- 


Parliament 


944 Parolleg 


The Mongrel Parliament (1681), held 
at Oxford, consisting of Whigs and 
Tories, by whom the Exclusion Bill was 
passed. 

The Pacifie Parliament. A triennial 
Parliament, dissolved August 8th, 1713. 
It signed the treaty of peace at Utrecht, 
after a war of eleven years. 

The Pensioner (or Pensionary) Parlia- 
ment (from May 8th, 1661, to January 
24th, 1678 [7.e. 16 years and 260 days}). 
It was convened by Charles II., and was 
called ‘‘ Pensionary’’? from the many 
pensions it granted to the adherents of 
the king. 

The Rump Parliament, in the Protec- 
torate ; so called because it contained 
the rump or fag-end of the Long Parlia- 
ment (1659). It was this Parliament 
that voted the trial of Charles I. 

The Running Parliament. A Scotch 
Parliament ; so called from its constantly 
being shifted from place to place. 

The Unlearned or Lawless Parliament 
(Parliamentum Indoctum) (1404). So 
called by Sir E. Coke, because it con- 
tained no lawyer. 

The Uninerciful Parliament, in the 
reign of Richard II.; so called by the 
people from its tyrannical proceedings. 

The Useless Parliament. The Parlia- 
ment convened by Charles I., on June 
18th, 1625 ; adjourned to Oxford, August 
Ist; and dissolved August 12th ; having 
done nothing but offend the king. 

The Wondermaking Parliament. The 
same as ‘‘ The Unmerciful Parliament ;”’ 
convened February 3rd, 1388. By play- 
ing into the hands of the Duke of 
Gloucester it checkmated the king, 


Parliament Soldiers. The soldiers 
of General Monk, who restored Charles 
II. to the throne. 

“Ring a ding-ding : ring a ding-ding! 

The Parliament soldiers are gone for the king. 

Some they did laugh, and some they did cry 

To see the Parliament soldiers go by. 

(To fetch back the king.]” 

Parliament of Bats (7hc), 1426, 
during the regency in the reign of 
Henry VI. So called because the 
members, being forbidden by the Duke 
of Gloucester to wear swords, armed 
themselves with clubs or bats. 


Parliament of Dunces. Convened 
by Henry IV. at Coventry, in 1404, and 
so called because all lawyers were ex- 
cluded from it. 


Parliamentarian (4). One who 


favoured the Parliament in opposition 
to Charles I. 


$$ rr 


Parlour (4). The reception room in 
a religious house where the religious see 
their friends. (French, parlour.) 


Par'lous. A corrupt form of perilous, 
in slang = our modern use of ‘‘ awful,’’ 
amazing, wondrous. 

“Ob! ‘t's a parlous lad.” 
Shakespeare: As You Like It, iii, 2. 

Parme’nianists. A name given to 
the Don‘atists ; so called from Parmeni- 
avnus, Bishop of Carthage, the great 
antagonist of Augustine. 


Parmesan’. A 
Parma, in Italy. 

Parnassos (Greek), Parnassus 
(Latin). A mountain near Delphi, in 
Greece. It has two summits, one of 
which was consecrated to Apollo and 
the Muses, the other to Bacchus. It 
was anciently called Larnassos, from 
larnax, an ark, because Deucalion’s ark 
stranded there after the flood. After 
the oracle of Delphi was built at its 
foot it received the name of Parnassos, 
which Peucerus says is a corruption of 
Hur Nahas (mill of divination). The 
Turks call it Liakura. 

Parnassus. The region of poetry. 
Properly a mountaim of Phocis, in 
Greece, sacred to Apollo and the Muses. 
“ς Where lies your vein? Are you in- 
clined to soar to the higher regions of 
Parnassus or to flutter round the base 
of the hill?” (Zhe <Antiquary)—i.e. 
Are you going to attempt the higher 
walks of poetry, such as epic and dra- 
matic, or some more modest kind, as 
simple song ? 

To climb Parnassus. 


cheese made at 


To write poetry. 


Relating to a parish. 
(See LitrLe 


Parochial. 
Hence, petty, narrow. 
ENGLANDELS. ) 


Parody. luther of Parody. Wippo’- 
nax of Ephesus. The word parody 
means an ode which perverts the mean- 
ing of another ode. (Greek, para odé.) 


Parole (French). A verbal promise 
given by a soldier or prisoner of war, 
that he will not abuse his leave of ab- 
sence; the watchword of the day. 


Paroles (3 syl.). A man of vain 
words, who dubs himself ‘‘captain,”’ 
pretends to knowledge which he has 
not, and to sentiments he never feels. 
(French, paroles, a creature of empty 
words.) (Shakespeare: All’s Well that 
Ends Well.) 

“T know him a notorious liar, 

Think him a great way fool, solely a coward ; 


Yet these fixed evils sit so fit on him ν 
That they take place... .” Acti.1, 


Parr 


Or 


Parti 


He wasamere Parolles in a pedagogue’s 
wig. A pretender, a man of words, and 
apedant. The allusion is to the brag- 
ging, faithless, slandering villain men- 
tioned above. 

τ Rust, sword; cool, blushes ; and, Parolles, live 
Safest in shame; being fooled, by fooling 
There's ΣΕ and means for every manalive.” 

Shakespeare: All's Well that Ends Well, iv. 3. 

Parr. (ld Parr. Vhomas Parr lived 
in the reigns of ten sovereigns; married 
a second wife when he was 120 years 
old, and had a child by her. He was a 
husbandman, born at Salop in 1483, and 
died 1635, aged 152 years. Mr. Thoms, 
in his Records of Longevity, denies the 
truth of Parr’s great age. 


Par'ricide (3 syl.). La Belle Parri- 
cide. Beatrice Cenci (*-1599.) 


Parrot-coal. A name given to an- 
thracite because of the crackling or chat- 
tering noise it makes when burnt. 


Parsees or (riches. Fire-worship- 
pers. We use the word for Persian 
refugees driven out of their country by 
the persecutions of the Mussulmans. 
They now inhabit various parts of India. 
(The word means /ople of Pars or Fars 
—1t.e. Persia.) 


Parsley. Ie has need now of nothing 
but a little parsley—i.c. he is dead. The 
Greeks decked tombs with parsley, be- 
cause it keeps green a long time. 


_ δεῖσθαι σελίνου, he needs parsley; that is, he 
is dead, and should be strewed with parsley. 


Parson, says Blackstone, is ‘‘ perso’na 
ecclesia, one that hath full rights of 
the parochial church.” (See CLERICAL 
TITLES.) 


“ Among wy ves and wodewes ich am ywoned sute 
{wont to set], 
Yparroked [impaled] in puwes. The person hit 
knoweth.” 
Robeit Langland ; Piers Plowmes Vision. 


“God give you good morrow, master person” 
Ce. Sir Nathaniel, a parson).—Shakespeare: Love's 
Labow's Lost, iv. 2. 

Parson Adams. A simple-minded 
country clergyman of the eighteenth 
century, in Fielding’s Joseph Andyews. 

Fielding says that Parson Adams at 
the age of fifty was provided with a 
handsome income of £23 a year (1740). 
Timothy Burrell, Esq., in 1715, be- 
queathed to his nephew Timothy the 
sum of £20 year, to be paid during his 
residence at the University, and to be 
continued to him until he obtained some 
preferment worth at least £30 a year. 
(Sussex Archeological Collections, vol. 
iii. p. 172.) (See Passine Ricu.) 


60 


Parson Bate. A stalwart, choleric, 
sporting parson, editor of the Morning 
Post in the latter half of the eighteenth 
century. He was afterwards Sir Henry 
Bate Dudley, Bart. 

“When Sir Henry Bate Dudley was appointed 
an Irish dean, a young lady of Dublin said, * Oh, 
how I Jong to see our dane. They say be isa very 
handsome man, and that he fights an angel.” 
—Cussell’s Magazine: London Legends, iil. 

Parson Trulliber, in Fielding’s 
Joseph Andrews. A slothful, ignorant, 
and self-willed bigot. 


*’ Other parsons famous in story are the Rev. 
Micah Balwidder, the vicar of Eray, Brockle- 
hurst, Dr. Primrose, the parson in Goldsmith's 
Deserted Village, the parson in Chaucer's Canter- 
bury Twes, and some others. 


Parsons (JValter), the giant porter 
of King James, died in 1622. (Fuller's 
Worthies.) 


Part. The character assigned to an 
actor in a play. 
Part. A portion, piece, or fragment. 


For ny part. As far as concerns me. 

Foy the most part. Generally, as a 
rule. 

In good part. Favyourably. 

Part and parcel. An essential part, 
portion, or element. 


Partant pour la Syrie. The na- 
tional air of the French Empire. The 
words were composed by M. de Laborde 
in 1809; the music by Queen Hortense, 
mother of Napoleon III. It is a ballad, 
the subject of which is as follows :— 
Young Dunois followed the count, his 
lord, to Syria, and prayed the Virgin 
“that he might prove the bravest 


_ warrior, and love the fairest maiden.”’ 


After the battle, the count said to 
Dunois, “ΤῸ thee we owe the victory, 
and my daughter I give to thee.’’ Moral: 
“© Amour da la plus belle ; honneur au plus 
vaillant.’’ 


Parthe’nia. Mistress of Ar’galus, in 
the Arcadia, of Sir Philip Sydney. 


Parthen’ope (4 syl.). Naples; so 
called from Parthenopé, the siren, who 
threw herself into the sea out of love 
for Ulysses, and was cast up on the bay 
of Naples. 


Parthenopean Republic. That of 
Naples, from January 22, 1799, to the 
June following. 


Parti (4). 
big marriage. 
“Prince Frederick Leopold is a parti, as he has 


inherited the bulk of his father’s limmense for- 
tune [twenty-four millions sterling].”—Newspaper 


An eligible person for a 


| Paragraph, 1885., 


Particular Baptists 


Particular Baptists. That branch 
of the Baptist Dissenters who limit the 
Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper to those 
who have been recipients of adult bap- 
tism, Open Baptists admit any baptised 
person to receive it. 


Particularists. Those who hold 
the doctrine of particular election and 
reprobation, 

Parting. 

“ Parting is such sweet sorrow, 
That I shall say ‘Good Night’ till it be morrow.” 
Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet, ii. 2. 

Parting Cup (4), was, by the 
ancient Romans, drunk in honour of 
Mercury to insure sound sleep. (See 
Ovid, Fasti, ii. 685.) (See Stirrup 
Cup.) 

Partington. A Mrs. Malaprop, or 
Tabitha Bramble, famous for her mis- 
use of hard words. (2. P. Shillaber ; 
an American author.) 

Dame Partington and her mop. A 
taunt against those who try to with- 
stand progress. The newspapers say 
that a Mrs. Partington had a cottage at 
Sidmouth, in Devonshire. In Novem- 
ber, 1824, a heavy gale drove the sea- 
waves into her house, and the old lady 
laboured with a mop to sop the wet up, 
till she was obliged to take refuge in 
the upper part of the house. The Rev. 
Sydney Smith, speaking on the Lords 
rejection of the Reform Bill, October, 
1831, compares them to Dame Parting- 
ton with her mop, trying to push back 
the Atlantic. ‘‘She was excellent,’ he 
says, ‘‘at a slop or puddle, but should 
never have meddled with a tempest.”’ 


Partilet. The hen in Chaucer’s 
Nwi’s Priest’s Tale, and in the tale of 
Reynard the Fox (fourteenth century). 
So called from the partlet or loose collar 
of ‘‘the doublet,’’ referring to the frill- 
like feathers round the neck of certain 
hens. (A partlet was a ruff worn in 
the 16th century by women.) 


“Tn the barn the tenant cock 
Close to partlet perched on high.” 
Cuningham. 


Sister Partlet with her hooded head, 
allegorises the cloistered community of 
nuns in Dryden’s Hind and Panther, 
where the Roman Catholic clergy are 
likened to barnyard fowls. 


Partridge. The attendant of Jones, 
half - barber and_ half - schoolmaster ; 
shrewd, but simple as a child. His 
simplicity, and his strong excitement at 
the play-house, when he went to see 
Garrick in Hamlet, are admirably por- 
trayed. (Fielding : Tom Jones.) 


946 Parysatis 


Partridge’s Day (S/.), September 1, 
the first day of partridge shooting. 


Par'tula, according to Tertullian, 
was the goddess of pregnancy, who de- 
termined the time of gestation. (Aulus 
Gellius, iii. ce. 16.) 

Parturiunt Montes, “ Parturicnt 
montes, nascétur ridiculus mus.’? The 
Egyptian king Tachos sustained a long 
war against Artaxerxes Ochus, and sent 
to the Lacedemonians for aid. King 
Agesilaos went with a contingent, but 
when the Egyptians saw a little, ill- 
dressed lame man, they said: “Ἅ Par- 
turiebat mons ; formidabat Jupiter ; ille 
vero murem peperit.”? (‘* The mountain 
laboured, Jupiter stood aghast, and a 
mouse ran out.’’) Agesilaos replied, 
‘You call me a mouse, but I will soon 
show you I ama lion.” 


Party. Person or persons under con- 
sideration. ‘‘This is the next party, 
your worship ’’—i.e. the next case to be 
examined. ‘ This is the party that stole 
the things ’’—the person or persons ac- 
cused. (French, partie, a person.) 

“Tfan evil spirit trouble any, one must make a 
smoke ...and the party shall be no more vexed.” 
—Tohit vi. 7. 

Party Spirit. The animus or feeling 
of a party man. 


Par’venu’ (French). An upstart; 
one who has risen from the ranks. 


Parvis (London). The ‘‘place”’ or 
court before the main entrance of a 
cathedral. In the parvis of St. Paul’s 
lawyers used to meet for consultation, 
as brokers do πὶ exchange. The word 
is now applied to the room above the 
church porch. (Paravisus, a Low Latin 
corruption of paradisus, a church close. ) 

“ A sergeant of lawe, war and wys, 

That often hadde hen atte parvys.” 
Chaucer: Canterbury Tales (Introduction). ° 

Parviz’ [J%ctorious]. Surname of 
Khosru or Chosroes II., the grandson 
of Khosru the Magnificent. The reigns 
of Khosru I. and II. were the golden 
period of Persian history. Parviz’ kept 
15,000 female musicians, 6,000 house- 
hold officers, 20,500 saddle-mules, 960 
elephants, 200 slaves to scatter perfumes 
when he went abroad, 1,000 sekabers to 
water the roads before him, and sat on 
a pillared throne of almost inconceiv- 
able splendour. 

The horse of Chosroes Parviz. Shibdiz, 
the Persian Bucephalos. (See Horse.) 


Parysiatis. Wife of Darius Nothos. 
(A corruption of Peri ’Zadchér [fairy 


Pascal’s Thoughts 


947 


Passing Rich 


bird - of- Paradise], sometimes called 


Azad'chér (bird-ot-Paradise].) 


Pascal’s Thoughts. Pensées sur la 
Religisn (1670). Fugitive reflections 
and short sentences chiefly of a religious 
character, by Blaise Pascal (1623-1662). 


Pasch Eggs (pron. Pask). Easter 
eggs, given as an emblem of the resur- 
rection. They are generally coloured. 
Not unfrequently a name written with 
grease, which does not absorb the colour- 
ing matter, causes a pasch egg to appear 
with a name on it. 

The day before Easter Sunday is 
called Eyg Saturday. 

Donner un οὐ, pour avoir un beuf. 
Giving a sprat to catch a mackerel. To 
give an egg at Easter under the ex- 
peetation of receiving a more substantial 
present later on, 


Pasha of Three Tails (4). There 
are three grades of pashas distinguished 
by the number of horse-tails on their 
standard, In war the horse-tail stan- 
dard is carried before the pasha, and 
planted in front of his tent. The highest 
rank of pashas are those of three tails; 
the graud vizier is always ex officio 
such a pasha. Pashas of two tails are 
governors of provinces; it is one of 
these officers that we mean when we 
speak of a pasha in a general way. A 
pasha of one tail is a sanjak or lowest of 
provincial governors. (The word pasha 
is the Persian pa, support of Shah, the 
ruler.) 


Pasque Eggs. (See Pascu EaGs.) 


Pasquina’de (3 syl.). A lampoon or 
political squib, having ridicule for its 
object ; so called from Pasqui’no, an 
Italian tailor of the fifteenth century, 
noted for his caustic wit. Some time 
after his death a mutilated statue was 
dug up, representing either Ajax sup- 
porting Menela’os, or Menela’os carrying 
the dead body of Patroc’los, or else a 
gladiator, and was placed at the end of 
the Braschi Palace near the Piazza 
Navo’ni. As it was not clear what the 
statue represented, and as it stood op- 
posite Pasquin’s house, the Italians 
called it ‘* Pasquin.”’ The Romans 
made this torso the depository of their 
political, religious, and personal satires, 
which were therefore called Pasquin- 
songs or Pasquinades. In the Capitol is 
a rival statue called Marforio, to which 
are affixed replies to the Pasquinades. 


Pass. 4 pass or A common pass. 
An ordinary degree, without honours. 


Where a person is allowed to pass up 
the senate-house to his degree without 
being ‘‘ plucked.’’? (See PLucK.) 

Well to pass. Well to do. Here 
‘pass’? is the synonym of fare (Saxon, 
faran, to go or pass). Shakespeare has 
the expression, ‘‘ How goes it? ’’—i.e. 
How fares it, how passes it ? 


Passe Brewell. Sir Tristram’s horse. 
Sir Tristram was one of the round-table 
knights. (History of Prince Arthur, ii, 
68.) 

Passe-partout. A sort of picture- 
frame. The middle is cut out to the 
size of the picture, and the border or 
edge is embossed, so as to present a 
raised margin. The passe-partout and 
picture, being backed and faced with 
a glass, are held together by an edging 
of paper which shows on the glass face. 
The word means something to ‘‘ pass 
over all.” 

A master-key is also called a passe- 
partout (a pass through all the rooms). 


Passelourdin (3 syl.). A great rock 
near Poitiers, where there is a very 
narrow hole on the edge of a precipice, 
through which the. university treshmen 
are made to pass, to ‘‘matriculate’”’ them. 
The same is done at Mantua, where the 
freshmen are made to pass under the 
arch of St. Longi’nus. Passe-lourdan 
means ‘‘ lubber-pass.”’ 


Passelyon. A young foundling 
brought up by Morgane la Fée. He was 
detected in an intrigue with Morgane’s 
daughter, and the adventures of this 
amorous youth are related in the ro- 
mance called Perceforest, vol. iii. 


Passing Bell (716). It now means 
the bell tolled to announce the death of 
one who has died in the parish; but 
originally it meant the bell which an- 
nounced that the person was ἐ)) extrénis, 
or passing from time into eternity. 

“when a person lies in agony, the bells of the 
parish he belongs to are touched with the clap- 
pers until either he dies or recovers again. AS 
soon as this sign is given, everybody in the street, 
as well as in the houses, falls on his knees, offer- 
ing prayer for the sick person.” (See xvii. of 
the Canon Law.)—Diary of the Duke of Stettin's 
Journey. 

Passing Fair. Admirably fair. 
(Dutch, passer, to admire.) 


Passing Rich. Goldsmith tells us 
in his Deserted Village, that the clergy- 
man was ‘‘passing rich with £40 a 
year.”’? This is no covert satire, but a 
sober fact. Equal to about £350. 


“ΠΑ man he was toall the country dear, 
And passing rich with forty pounds a year.” 
Goldsmith: Deserted Village. 


Passion Flower 


in Norway and Sweden the clergy are 
paid from £20 to £40 a year, and in 
France £40 a year is the usual stipend 
of the working clergy. Of St. Yves it 
was said (1251-1303) :-— 

“11 distribuait,avec une sainte profusion aux 
pauvres, les revenus de son henéfice et ceux de 
son patrimoine, qui étaient de £60 de rente, alors 

e somme tres notable, particulierement en 
sse Bretagne.’—Dom Lobincau: Lives of the 
ints of Great Britain. 

Passion Flower. 

The leaf symbolises the spear. 

The five unthers, the five wounds, 

he tendrils, the cords or whips. 

The column of the ovary, the pillar of the cross. 

The stamens, the hammers. | 

The three styles, the three nails. 

The sleshy threads within the flowers, the crown 
of thorns. : 

The calyx, the glory or nimbus. 

The white tint, purity. 


Ba 
Sa 


1 
(See PrKe’s HEAD.) 


Passionists. Certain priests of the 
Roman Catholic Church, who mutually 
agreed to preach ‘Jesus Christ, and 
Him crucified.”” The founder of this 
κε congregation’? was Paul Francis, sur- 
named Paul of the Cross, (1694-1775.) 


Pass’over. <A Jewish festival to 
commemorate the deliverance of the 
Israelites, when the angel of death (that 
slew the first-born of the Egyptians) 
passed over their houses, and spared all 
who did as Moses commanded them. 


Passy-measure or Passing-mea- 
sure. A slow, stately dance; a cor- 
ruption of the Italian passamezzo (a 
middle pace or step). It is called a 
cinque measure, because it consists of 
tive measures— ‘“‘ two -singles and a 
double forward, with two singles side.”’ 
(Collier.) 

Passy-measure Pavin. A pavin is 
a stately dance (sce Pavan); a passy- 
measure pavin is a reeling dance or 
motion, like that of a drunken man, 
trom side to side. Sir Toby Belch says 
of Dick Surgeon— 

“He's a rogue and a passy-measure pavin, I 


hate a drunken rogue.” — Shakespeare: Twelfth 
Night, v.1. 
Pasteboard. A visiting card; so 


called from the material of which it is 
made. 

Paston Letters. The first two 
volumes appeared in 1787, entitled 
Original Letters written during the Reigns 
of Henry VI., Edward IV., and Richard 
111. by various Persons of Rank ; edited 
by Mr. (afterwards Sir John) Fenn. 
Chey are called Paston because chiefly 
written by or to members of the Paston 


948 


Patelin 


family in Norfolk. They passed from 
the Earl of Yarmouth to Peter le Neve, 
antiquary ; then to Mr, Martin, of 
Palgrave, Suffolk ; were then bought 
by Mr. Worth, of Diss; then passed to 
the editor. Charles Knight calls them 
‘fan invaluable record of the social 
customs of the fifteenth century ’’ (the 
time of the Wars of the Roses), but of 
late some doubt has been raised respect- 
ing their authenticity. Three extra 
volumes were subsequently added. 


Pastorale of Pope Gregory, by 
Alfred the Great. 


Patavin'ity. A provincial idiom in 
speech or writing; so called from Pata- 
vium (Padua), the birthplace of Livy. 
(See ῬΑΤΟΙΒ.) 


Patch. A fool; so called from the 
motley or patched dress worn by licensed 
fools. 

“What a pied ninny’s this ! thou scurvy patch 
Shakespeare: The Tempest, iil. 2. 

Cross-patch. An ill-tempered person. 
(See above.) 

Not a patch upon. Not to be com- 
pared with; as, ‘‘His horse is not a 
patch upon mine,”’ ‘‘ My patch is better 
than his garment.”’ : 


Patch (1710). To express certain 
political views. The allusion is to the 
custom, in Queen Anne’s reign, of 
wearing on the face little black patches. 
If the patch was on the right cheek, it 
indicated that the wearer was a Whig ; 
if on the left cheek, that she wasa Tory ; 
if on the forehead between the eyes, or 
on both cheeks, that she was of no 
political bias. (See Court PLASTER.) 

“Whatever might be her husband's politics, 
she was at liberty to patch as she pleased,”’— 
Nineteenth Century, February, 1890, p, 58. 

Patelin. The artful dodger, The 
French say, Savoir son Patelin (to know 
how to bamboozle you). Patelin is the 
name of an artful cheat in a farce of the 
fifteenth century so called. On one oc- 
casion he wanted William Josseaume to 
sell him cloth on credit, and artfully fell 
on praising the father of the merchant, 
winding up his laudation with this xe 
plus ultra: ‘‘He did sell on credit, or 
even lend to those who wished to 
borrow.’’ This farce was reproduced 
in 1706 by Brueys, under the name of 
LT? Avoeat Patelin. 

“Consider, sir, I pray you, how the noble 
Patelin, having a mind to extol to the third 
heaven the father of William Josseaume, said no 
more than this: ‘And he did lend to those who 


were desirous to borrow of hin. ”’—Rwvelais: 
Pantagr uel, i. 4, ‘ 


."» 


Patelinagé 


Patelinage. Foolery, buffoonery ; 
acting like Patelin in the French farce. 

“T never in my life laughed so much as at the 
acting of that Patelinage.’—2uabelais: Pantag- 
ruel, ili. 34. 

Patent Rolls. Letters patent col- 
lected together on parchment rolls. 
Each roll is a year, though in some 
cases the roll is subdivided into two or 
more parts. Each sheet of parchment 
is numbered, and called a membrane: 
for example, the 8th or any other sheet, 
say of the 10th year of Henry IIL., is 
cited thus: ‘‘ Pat. 10, Hen. III., m. 8.”’ 
Ii the document is on the back of the 
roll it is called dorso, and ‘‘ d”’ is added 
to the citation. 


Pater Nos’ter. The Lord’s Prayer; 
so called from the first two words in the 
Latin version. Every tenth bead of a 
rosary is so called, because at that bead 
the Lord’s Prayer isrepeated. Formerly 
applied to the Rosary beads. 


Pater Patrum. St. Gregory of 
Nyssa was so entitled by the Nicean 
Council. (332-395.) 


Paternoster Row (London) was so 
named from the rosary or paternoster 
makers, We read of ‘one Robert 
Nikke, a paternoster maker and citizen, 
in the reign of Henry IV.’’ Some say it 
was so called because funeral processions 
on their way to St. Paul’s began their 
pater noster at the beginning of the 
Row, and went on repeating it till they 
reached the church-gate. 


Pathfinder. Major-General John 
Charles Fremont, who conducted four 
expeditions across the Rocky Mountains. 
(1842. ) 

Pathfinder, in Fenimore Cooper’s five 
novels, is Natty Bumppo, called the 
Pathfinder, the Deerslayer, the Hawk- 
eye, and the Trapper. (See Natry 
Bumpro.) 


Patience cry the Lepers. A pun- 
ning proverbial phrase. Lepers seek 
diligently the herb patience (/apathum) 
to relieve them from their suffering. 


Patient (Zhe). Albert IV., Duke of 
Austria, (1377-1404.) (See HELEN.) 


Patient Gris’el, Grisil'des, Grisild, 
Grisilde, or Grisildis, according to 
Chaucer, was the wife of Wautier, 
Marquis of Sal’uces (Clerics Tale). <Ac- 
cording to Boceaccio, Griselda, a poor 
country lass, became the wife of Gual- 
tie’re, Marquis of Saluzzo (Tenth Day, 
novel x.), She is put upon by her hus- 


949 


Patrician 


manner, but bears it all, not only without 
a murmur, but even without loss of 
temper. She is the model of patience 
under injuries. The allegory means 
that God takes away our children and 
goods, afflicts us in sundry ways, and 
tries us ‘‘so as with fire;’’ but we 
should always say, ‘‘The Lord gave, 
and the Lord hath taken away; blessed 
be the name of the Lord.”’ 


Patin. Brother of the Emperor of 
Rome, who fought with Am/’‘adis of 
Gaul, and had his horse killed under 
him. 


Pat/ina. A beautiful surface deposit 
or fine rust, with which, in time, buried 
coins and bronzes become covered. It 
is at once preservative and ornamental, 
and may be seen to advantage in the 
ancient bronzes of Pompeii. (Greek, 
patané, a paten.) 


Patmos (J/y). My solitude, my 
place of banishment from society, my 
out-of-the-way home. As ‘‘ Good-b’ye, 
I must go to my Patmos.’”’ The allu- 
sion, of course, is to the banishment of 
St. John to the island of Patmos, in the 
reign of Domitian. 


Patois (2 syl.). Dialectic peculiarity, 
provincialism. <Asinius Pollio noticed 
something of the kind in Livy, which 
he called patavinitas, from Patavium, 
Livy’s birth-town. 


Patri-Passians. One of the most 
ancient sectaries of the Christian Church, 
who maintained the oneness of the God- 
head. The founder was Praxeas, of 
Phrygia, in the second century. The 
appellation was given to them by their 
opponents, who affirmed that, according 
to their theory, the Father must have 
suffered on the cross. 


Patrician, properly speaking, is oue 
of the patres or fathers of Rome. These 
patres were the senators, and their de- 
scendants were the patricians. As they 
held for mdny yearg all the honours of 
the state, the word came to signify the 
magnates or nobility of a nation. 


N.B. In Rome the patrician class 
was twice augmented: first by Tatins, 
after the Sabine war, who added a whole 
“century:”? and again by Tarquinius 
Priscus, who added another. The Sa- 
bine century went by the name of 
patricians of the senior races (majo'ri 
gentiwm), and the Tarquinian patricians 
were termed of the junior creation 


band in the most wanton and gratuitous | (sino'rum gentiun). 


Patrick 


Patroclos 


Patrick. Chambers says, ‘‘ We can 
trace the footsteps of St. Patrick almost 
from his cradle to his grave by the 
names of places called after him.”’ Thus, 
assuming the Scottish origin, he was 
born at Av/-patrick (the cell of Patrick), 
in Dumbartonshire ; he resided for some 
time at Dal-patrick (the district of Pat- 
rick), in Lanarkshire ; and visited Crag- 
phadrig (the rock of Patrick), near 
Inverness. He founded two churches, 
Kirk - patrick in Kirkcudbright, and 
Kirk-patrickin Dumfries; and ultimately 
sailed from Port-patrick, leaving behind 
him such an odour of sanctity that 
among the most distinguished families 
of the Scottish aristocracy Patrick has 
been a favourite name down to the 
present day. 

Arriving in England, he preached at 
Patter-dale (Patrick’s valley), in West- 
moreland; and founded the church of 
Kirk-patrick, in Durham. Visiting 
Wales, he walked over Sarn-badrig 
(causeway of Patrick), which now forms 
a dangerous shoal in Carnarvon Bay ; 
and, departing for the Continent, sailed 
from Llan-badrig (church of Patrick), in 
the isle of Anglesea. Undertaking his 
mission to convert the Irish, he first 
landed at Jnnis-patrick (island of Pat- 
rick), and next at Holm-patrick, on the 
opposite shore of the mainland, in the 
county of Dublin. Sailing northwards, 
he touched at the Isle of Man, called 
Innis-patrick, where he founded another 
church of Avrk-patrick, near the town 
of Peel. Again landing on the coast of 
Ireland, in the county of Down, he 
converted and baptised the chieftain 
Dichu on his own threshing-floor, an 
event perpetuated in the word Sazl—-i.e, 
Sabbal-patrick (barn of Patrick). He 
then proceeded to Zemple-patrick, in 
Antrim; and from thence to a lofty 
mountain in Mayo, ever since called 
Croagh - patrick. In East Meath he 
founded the abbey of Domnach- Padraig 
(house of Patrick), and built a church 
in Dublin on the spot where δέ, Patrich’s 
Cathedral now stands. Inan island of 
Lough Derg, in Donegal, there is Sf. 
Patrick's Purgatory ; mm Leinster, “δ, 
Patrick’s Wood ; at Cashel, St. Patricks 
Rock, There are scores of St. Patrich’s 
Wells from which he drank; and he 
died at Saul, March 17th, 493. 
Days.) 

τ St. Patrick's real name was Succat, changed 
first into Cothraige, then to Magonus, and after- 
Wards (on his ordination) to Patricius. (See Dr. 


Todd, in the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Acad- 
emy, Vol, Vi.) 


Patrick’s Cave (S/.), through which | 


(Book of 


was a descent to purgatory, for the be- 
hoof of the living who wished to expiate 
their evil deeds before death. 


Patrick’s Cross (54). The same 
shape as St. Andrew’s Cross (), only 
different in colour, viz. red on a white 
field, (See ANDREW.) 


Patrick’s Grave (54), in the yard 
of Downpatrick cathedral, The visitor 
is shown a spot where some of the mould 
has been removed, and is told that pil- 
grims take away a few grains as a 
charm, under the belief that the relic 
will insure good health, and help to 
atone for sin. 


Patrick’s Monument (‘/.), in the 
cemetery of Downpatrick cathedral. 
Visitors are shown the spot where the 
‘saint’? was buried, but, onasking why 
there is no memorial, is informed that 
both Protestants and Catholics agreed 
to erect a suitable one, but could not 
agree upon the inscription. Whatever 
the Protestants erected in the day the 
Catholics pulled down at night, and vice 
versa. ‘Tired of this toil of Penelopé, the 
idea was abandoned, and the grave was 
left unmarked by monumental stone. 


Patrick’s Purgatory (S/.), Ireland, 
described in the Italian romance called 
Guerino Meschino.- Here gourmands are 
tantalised with delicious banquets which 
elude their grasp, and are at the same 
time troubled with colic. (See TANTALUS.) 


Patrick and the Serpent (54). 
According to tradition, St. Patrick 
cleared Ireland of its vermin; one old 
serpent resisted him; but St. Patrick 
overcame it by cunning. He madea box, 
and invited the serpent to enter it. The 
serpent objected, saying it was too 
small; but St. Patrick insisted it was 
quite large enough to be comfortable. 
After a long contention, the serpent got 
in to prove it was too small, when St. 
Patrick slammed down the lid, and threw 
the box into the sea. ΤῸ complete this 
wonderful tale, the legend says the 
waves of the sea are made by the writh- 
ings of this serpent, and the noise of the 
sea is that of the serpent imploring the 
saint to release it. 


Pat'rico or Pater-cove. Hedge 
priests who for a fee married people 
under a hedge, as Abraham-men (q.v.). 


Patroc’los. The gentle and amiable 
friend of Achilles, in Homer’s Jad. 
When Achilles refused to fight in order 
to annoy Agamem’non, he sent his 


Patten 951 


Paulicians 


friend Patroc’los to battle, and he was 
slain by Euphorbos, 


Patten. Martha or Patty, says Gay, 
was the daughter of a Lincolnshire 
farmer, with whom the village black- 
smith fell in love. To save her from 
wet feet when she went to milk the 
cows, the village Mulciber invented a 
clog, mounted on iron, which he called 
patty, after his mistress. This pretty 
fable is of no literary value, as the word 
is the French patin (a high-heeled shoe 
or skate), from the Greek pa‘ein (to 
walk). 

‘The prtten now supports each frugal dame, 

Which from the blue-eyed Patty takes its 

name.” Gay: Trivia, i. 

Pattens-Money (Chapins de la 
Reina). Asubsidy levied in Spain on all 
crown tenants at the time of a royal 
marriage. 

Patter. To chatter, to clack. Dr. 
Pusey thinks it is derived from Pater- 
noster (the Lord’s Prayer). The priest 
recited it in a low, mumbling voice till 
he came to the words, ‘‘ and lead us not 
into temptation,’’ which he spoke aloud, 
and the choir responded, ‘‘ but deliver 
us from eyil.’’? In our reformed Prayer 
Book, the priest is directed to say the 
whole prayer “ with a Jlowd voice.” 
Probably the ‘‘pattering of rain ’’—1.e. 
the rain coming with its pit-pat, is after 
all the better derivation. 

πὴ Gipsy talk is so called from the French patois. 
(See PATAVINLTY.) 

Pattern. A corruption of patron. 
Asa patron is a guide, and ought to be 
an example, so the word has come to 


signify an artistic model. (French, 
pron Latin, patronus.) 
Pattieson (Jr. Peter). Introduced 


by Sir Walter Scott in the Introductions 
of the Heart of Midlothian and Bride 
of Lammermoor. He is represented as 
‘assistant’? at Gandercleugh, and 
author of the Tales of My Landlord, 
published posthumously by Jedidiah 
Cleishbotham. 


Paul (S¢.). Patron saint of preachers 
and tentmakers. Originally called Saul. 
The name was changed in honour of 
Sergius Paulus, whom he converted. 

His symbol are a sword and open 
book, the forn.er the instrument of his 
martyrdom, and the latter indicative of 
the new law propagated by him as the 
apostle of the Gentiles. He is repre- 
sented of short stature, with bald head 
and grey, bushy beard. 


Born at Giscalis, a town of Judza, from which 
he remoyed, with his parents, to Tarsus, of 
Cilicia. . 


Tribe, that of Benjamin. 

Taught by Gamaliel. 

Beheaded by a sword in the fourteenth year of 
Nero. On the same day as Peter was crucified. 

_ Buried in the Ostian Way. 
(See Eusebius : Hieronymus.) 

Paul Pry. An idle, meddlesome 
fellow, who has no occupation of his 
own, and is always interfering with 
other folk’s business. (John Toole : 
Paul Pry, a comedy.) The original was 
Thomas Hill. 


Pauland Virginia. A tale by Ber- 
nardin de St. Pierre. At one time this 
little romance was as popular as Uncle 
Tom’s Cabin. 


Paul the Hermit (‘St.) is represented 
as an old man, clothed with palm-leaves, 
and seated under a palm-tree, near which 
are a river and loat of bread. 


Paul of the Cross. 
founder of the Passionists, (1694-1775.) 


Paul's Man (4). A braggart; a 
captain out of service, with ἃ long 
rapier; so called because St. Paul’s 
Walk was at one time the haunt of stale 
knights. Jonson called Bobadil (q.v.) a 
Paul’s man. 


Paul’s Pigeons. 
Paul’s Schocl, London, 


Pauls Walkers. Loungers who 
frequented the middle of St. Paul’s, 
which was the Bond Street of London 
up to the time of the Commonwealth. 
(See Ben Jonson’s Every Man out of his 
Humour, where are a variety of scenes 
given in the interior of St. Paul’s. 
Harrison Ainsworth describes these 
ἐς walkers’ in his noyel entitled Old 
St. Pautl’s.) 

“The young gallants... used to meet at the 
central point, St. Paul's: and from this circum- 
stunce obtained the appellation of Paul’s Walkers, 
as we now say Bond Street Loungers."—Moser: 
European Magazine, July, 1807. 


Paul Francis, 


The boys of St. 


Paulianists. A sect of heretics so 
called from Paulia’nus Samosa’tanus 
(Paul of Samosa’ta), elected Bishop of 
Antioch in 262. He may be considered 
the father of the Socinians. 


Paulicians. A religious sect of the 
Eastern Empire, an offshoot of the Mani- 
che’ans. It originated in an Armenian 
named Paul, who lived under Justinian 
II. Neander says they were the fol- 
lowers of Constantine of Mananalis, and 
were called Paulicians because the 
apostle Paul was their guide. He says 
they rejected the worship of the Virgin 
and of saints, denied the doctrine of 
transubstantiation, and maintained the 


Paulina 


right of everyone to read the Scriptures 
freely. 

Paulina, wife of Antig‘onus, a Si- 
cilian nobleman, takes charge of Queen 
Hermi’one, when unjustly sent to prison 
by her jealous husband, and after a time 
presents her again to Leontes as a 
statue ‘‘by that rare Italian master, 
Julio Romano.”’ (Shakespeare : Winter's 


Tale.) 


Paulo. The cardinal, brother of 
Count Guido Franceschini, who advised 
his scapegrace bankrupt brother to 
marry an heiress, in order to repair his 
fortune. (Robert Browning: The Ling 
and the Book.) 


Pa/’van or Pavin. 
its galliard (Spanish). Every sage has 
his moments of folly. Every white 
must have its black, and every sweet its 
sour, The pavan was a stately Spanish 
dance, in which the ladies and gentle- 
men stalked like peacocks (Latin, 
pavo’nes), the gentlemen with their long 
robes of office, and the ladies with 
trains like peacocks’ tails. The pavan, 
like the minuet, ended with a quick 
movement called the galliard, a sort of 
gavot’te. 


Pavilion of Prince Ahmed (7/ic). 
This pavilion was so small it could be 
covered with the hand, and yet would 
expand so largely as to encamp a whole 
army. (Arabian Nights: Ahmed and 
Pari-Banon.) (See Sotomon’s CaRrPet.) 


Pawnbroker. The three golden balls. 
The Lombards were the first money- 
lenders in England, and those who bor- 
rowed money of them deposited some 
security or pawn. The Medici family, 
whose arms were three gilded pills, in 
allusion to their profession of medicine, 
were the richest merchants of Florence, 
and greatest money-lenders, (See BALLS.) 

** Roscoe, in his Life of Lorenzo de 
Medici, gives a different solution. He 
says that Averardo de’ Medici, a com- 
mander under Charlemagne, slew the 
giant Mugello, whose club he bore as a 
trophy. This club or mace had three 
iron balls, which the family adopted as 
their device. 

Pain is the Latin pign[us] (a pawn or pled ze). 


Every pavan has 


Pawnee. Brandy pawnee, Brandy 
grog. (Hindu, pa’n, water.) 
Pax. The ‘‘kiss of peace.’’ Also a 


sacred utensil used when mass is cele- 
brated by a high dignitary. It is some- 
times a crucifix, sometimes a tablet, 
and sometimes a reliquary. The pax 


952 Peace-makers 


is omitted on Maundy Thursday, from 
horror at the kiss of Judas. 


Pay (sea term). To cover with pitch. 
(Latin, picare, to cover with pitch.) 

Here's the devil to pay, and no pitch 
hot. (See under DEVI1.) 


Pay (170). 
(French, payer.) 

Who's to pay the piper 2 Who is to 
stand Sam? who is to pay the score? 
The phrase comes from the tradition 
about the Pied Piper of Hameln, who 
agreed to cure the town of rats and 
mice; when he had done so, the people 
of Hameln refused to pay him, where- 
upon he piped again, and led all the 
children to Koppelberg Hill, which 
closed over them, 

From the corresponding French 
phrase, ‘* payer les violons,’ it would 
seem to mean who is to pay the fiddler 
or piper if we have a dance [on the 
green]; who is going to stand Sam ? 


Pay (To). 
“Pay away’’ [more cable] ; 
“discharge ’? more cable. 
payer.) 


Pay (70). 
Dll pay him out. 
him, 11] punish him. 


“They witha foxe-tale him soundly did paye.” 
The King and Northerue Mau (1040). 


Pay off old Scecres (70). To pay 
off a debt, whether of money or revenge. 


Pay with the Roll of the Drum 
(To). Not to pay at all. No soldier 
can be arrested for debt when on the 
march. 

“ How happy the soldier who lives on his pay, 

And spends half-a-crown out of sixpence a 

day ; 

Tle cares not for justices, beadles, or bum, 

But jays all his debts with the roll of the 

drum.” O Keefe. 

Paynising. A process of preserving 
and hardening wood invented by Mr. 
Payne. (Sce KYANISE.) 


To discharge a debt. 


To slacken a cable; as, 
that is, 
(French, 


To requite, to punish. 
T’ll be a match for 


Pea-jacket (4). Dutch, pig or pie, 


a coarse thick cloth or felt. <A ‘‘pije 
jacket.”’ 
Peace. The Perpetual Peace. The 


peace concluded January 24th, 1502, 
between England and Scotland. But a 
few years afterwards the battle of Flod- 
den Field was fought. 


Peace-makers (7/ie). The nick- 
name of the Bedfordshire regiment. So 
called from having no battles on the 
colours, 


Peace 


9 


Pearl 


Peace of Antalcidas (7/c), between 
Artaxerxes and the states of Greece. It 
was brought about by Antal’cidas, the 
Spartan (B.c. 387). 


Peace of God. In 1035 the clergy 
interfered to prevent the constant feuds 
between baron and baron; they com- 
manded all men to lay down their arms 
on pain of excommunication. The com- 
mand and malediction were read daily 
from the pulpits by the officiating priests 
after the proper gospel :—‘‘ May they 
who refuse to obey be accursed, and 
have their portion with Cain, the first 
murderer ; with Judas, the arch-traitor ; 
and with Dathan and Abi’ram, who 
went down alive into the pit. May 
they be accursed in the life that now is; 
and in that which is to come may their 
light be put out as a candle.’? So say- 
ing, all the candles were instantly ex- 
tinguished, and the congregation had to 
make its way in the dark out of church 
as it best could. 


Peace with Honour. The rallying 
cry of the late Lord Beaconsfield; it 
originated with his speech after the Ber- 
lin Conference (1878), when he stated 
that he had brought back Peace with 
Honour. 


Peaceful (7ic). Kang-wang, third 
of the Thow dynasty of China, in whose 
reign no one was either put to death or 
imprisoned, (1098-1152.) 


Peach. To inform, to ‘‘split;” a 
contraction of inpeach. 


Peacock. Let him keep peacock to 
himself. Let him keep to himself his 
eccentricities. When George III. had 
partly recovered from one of his attacks, 
his Ministers got him to read the King’s 
Speech, but he ended every sentence with 
the word ‘‘ peacock.’’ The Minister who 
drilled him said that peacock was an 
excellent word for ending a sentence, 
only kings should not let subjects hear 
it, but should whisper it softly. The 
result was a perfect success: the pause 
at the close of each sentence had an 
excellent effect. 

By the peacock! A common oath which 
at one time was thought sacred. The 
fabled incorruptibility of the peacock’s 
flesh caused the bird to be adopted as a 
type of the resurrection. 


Peacock’s Feather Unlucky (4). 
The peacock’s tail is emblem of an Evil 
Eye, or an ever-vigilant traitor. The 
tale is this: Argus was the chief Minister 
ef Osiris, King of Egypt. When the 


iy 


king started on his Indian expedition, 
he left his queen, Isis, regent, and Argus 
was to be her chief adviser. Argus, 
with one hundred spies (called eyes), 
soon made himself so powerful and for- 
midable that he shut up the queen- 
regent in a strong castle, and proclaimed 
himself king. Mercury marched against 
him, took him prisoner, and cut off his 
head ; whereupon Juno metamorphosed 
Argus into a peacock, and set his eyes in 
its tale. 


Peak (The), Derbyshire. ‘The 
Queen of Scots’ Pillar’’ is a column in 
the cave of the peak as clear as alabaster, 
and so called because Mary Queen of 
Scots proceeded thus far, and then re- 
turned. 


Peal. 170 ring a peal is to ring 5,040 
changes; any number of changes less 
than that is technically called a towch or 
flourish. Bells are first raised, and then 
pealed. (Qy. Latin pello, to strike ?) 

“This society rung ... . a true and complete 
peal of 5,040 grandsire triples in three hours and 
fourteen minutes.”"—Jnseription in Windsor Cur- 
few Tower. 

Pearl (Zhe). Dioscor’idés and Pliny 
mention the belief that pearls are formed 
by drops of rain falling into the oyster- 
shells while open; the rain-drops thus 
received being hardened into pearls by 
some secretions of the animal. 

According to Richardson, the Persians 
say when drops of spring-rain fall into 
the pearl-oyster they produce pearls. 

“Precious the tear as that rain from the sky 


Which turns into pearls as it falls on the sea.” 
Thomas Moore. 


“Pearls .. . are believed to he the result of an 
abnormal secretory process caused by an irrita- 
tion of the mollusk consequert on the intrusion 
into the shell of some foreign body,asa grain of 
sand, an egg of the mollusk itself, or perhaps 
some cercarian parasite.”—G. F. King: Gems, etc., 
chap, xii. p. 211. 


“ Cardan says that pearls are polished 
by being pecked and played with by 
doves. (De Rerum Varietate, vii. 54.) 


Pearl. 
pearl in honour of Antony, see 
PATRA. 

A similar act of vanity and folly is 
told by Horace (2 Satire, ili. verse 239). 
Clodius, son of Msop the tragedian, 
drew a pear! from his ear of great value, 
melted it in a strong acid, and drank to 
the health of Cecilia Metella, Thisstory 
is referred to by Valerius Maximus, 
Macrobius, and Pliny. Horace says, 

“Qui sanior, ac si 
Illudidem in rapidum flumen jaceretye cloacam ?’ 

Sir Thomas Gresham, it is said, when 

Queen Elizabeth dined with him at the 


For Cleopatra melting her 
CLEO- 


Pearl 


954 


Pedlar’s Acre 


City banquet, melted a pearl worth 
£15,000, and drank to her health. 


“Here fifteen thousand pounds alone clap goes 
Instead of sugar, Gresham drinks the pearl 
Unto his gucen and mistress.” 

Thomas Heywood. 


Pearl of the East. Zenobia, Queen 
of Palmyra (reigned 266-272). 

Peasant Bard. Robert Burns, the 
lyric poet of Scotland. (1759-1796.) 


Peasant-boy Philosopher (Zc). 
James Ferguson. (1710-1776.) 


Peasants’ War (1716), between 1500 
and 1525. It was a frequent rising of 
the peasantry of Swabia, Franconia, 
Saxony, and other German states, in 
consequence of the tyranny and oppres- 
sion of the nobles. In 1502 was the 
rebellion called the Laced Shoe, from its 
cognisance ; in 1514, the League of Poor 
Conrad ; in 1528, the Latin War, The 
insurgents were put down, and whereas 
they had been whipped before with 
scourges, they were now chastised with 
scorpions. 


Peascod. Father of Peasblossom, 
if Bottom’s pedigree may be accepted, 

“JT pray you commend me to Mistress Squash 

your mother, and to Master Peascod your father, 
good Master Peasblossom.”—Shakespeare: Mid- 
summer Night's Dream, iil. 1. 

Winter for shoeing, peascod for woo- 
ing. The allusion in the latter clause 
is to the custom of placing a peascod 
with nine peas in it on the door-lintel, 
under the notion that the first man who 
entered through the door would be the 
husband of the person who did so. 
Another custom is alluded to by 
Browne— 

“The peascod greene oft with no little toyle 
Hee'd seeke for in the fattest, fertil’st soile, 
And rend it from the stalke to bring it to ber, 
And in her bosome for acceptance woo her.” 

Britannia’s Pastorals, 

Pee. Eton slang for money. <A con- 

traction of the Latin peew'nia. 


Peceavi. Zo cry peccavi. To ac- 
knowledge oneself in the wrong. It is 
said that Sir Charles Napier, after the 
battle of Hyderabad, in 1843, used this 
word as a pun upon his victory — 
** Peccavi’’ (1 have sinned, ἐ.6. Sinde). 

Peck (4). Some food. ‘‘To have 
a peck,”’ is to have something to eat. 

Peckish. Toangry, or desirous of some- 
thing to eat. Of course ‘‘ peck” refers 
to fowls, etc., which peck their food, 

“When shall I feel peckish again,’—Disraeli: 
Sybil, hook yi. chap. iil. 

Pecker. Acep your pecker up. As 
the mouth is in the head, pecher (the 


mouth) means the head; and to “‘ keep 
your pecker up,’’ means to keep your 
head up, or, more familiarly, ‘‘ keep your 
tail up;’’ ‘‘never say die.”’ 


Peckham. 4// holiday at Peckham, 
—i.e, no appetite, not peckish; a pun 
on the word peck, as going to Bedford- 
shire is a pun on the word bed. 

Going to Peckham. Going to dinner. 


Peck'sniff. A canting hypocrite, 
who speaks homilies of morality, does 
the most heartless things ‘‘as a duty 
to society,’’ and forgives wrong-doing 
in nobody but himself. (Dickens: Martin 
Chuzzlewit.) 

Peculiar. A parish or church exempt 
from episcopal jurisdiction, as a royal 
chapel, etc. 


Peculiars (Zhe Cowt of). A branch 
of the Court of Arches having juris- 
diction over the ‘“ peculiars’’ of the 
archbishop of Canterbury. (See above.) 


Pecu’lium. My own peeuliun. Pri- 
vate and individual property or posses- 
sion. The Roman slaves were allowed 
to acquire property, over which theif 
masters had no right or control; this 
was called their pecu'lium. 


Pecuniary. From pecs, cattle, 
especially sheep. Varo says that sheep 
were the ancient medium of barter and 
standard of value. Ancient coin was 
marked with the image of an ox or 
sheep. We have the Gold Sheep (ow- 
ton dor) and Gold Lamb (agneau d'or) 
of ancient France, so called from the 
figure struck on them, and worth about 
a shilling. (Latin, pecwniarius, pecwria.) 


Ped’'agogue (9 syl.) means a boy- 
leader. It was a slave whose duty it 
was to attend the boy whenever he left 
home. A schoolmaster ‘‘leads’’ his 
boys, morally and otherwise. (Greek, 
pais ago geus.) 

Pedlar is not a tramp who goes on 
his feet, as if from the Latin pedes 
(feet), but a man who carries a ped or 
hamper without a lid, in which are 
stored fish or other articles to hawk 
about the streets. In Norwich there is 
a place called the Ped-market, where 
women expose eggs, butter, cheese, etc., 
in open hampers. 


Pedlar’s Acre (Lambeth). Accord- 
ing to tradition, a pedlar of this parish 
left a sum of money, on condition that 
his picture, with a dog, should be pre- 
served for eyer in glass in one of the 


Pedlars’ French 9 


church-windows. In the south window 
of the middle aisle, sure enough, such a 
picture exists; but probably it is a rebus 
on Chapman, the name of some bene- 
factor. In Swaffham church there is a 
portrait of one John Chapman, a great 
benefactor, who is represented as a 
pedlar with his pack; and in that town 
a similar tradition exists. 


Pedlars’ French. The slang of the 
Romany folk. Even Bracton uses the 
word Frenchman as a synonym of 
foreigner, and it is not long since that 
everyone who could not speak English 
was called a Frenchman. The Jews, with 
a similar width, used the word Greek. 

“Instead of Pedlars’ French, gives him plain 
language.’ — Beaumont and Fletcher: Faithful 
Friends, i. 2. 

Peebles. Poor Peter Peebles. The 
pauper litigant in Redgauntlet, by Sir 
Walter Scott. 


Peel. A Lvel district. A clerical 
district (not a parish) devised by Sir 
Robert Peel. 


Peeler (4). Slang fora policeman ; 
so called from Sir Robert Peel, who 
reconstructed the police system. Bobby, 
being the nickname of Robert, is applied 
to the same force. (See ΒΟΒΒΥ.) 

Peeler. Yt is an extraordinary circum- 
stance that this word, now applied to a 
policeman or thief-catcher, was in the 
sixteenth century applied to robbers. 
Holinshed, in his Scottish Chronicle 
(1570), refers to Patrick Dunbar, who 
“delivered the countrie of these 
peelers.”” Thomas Mortimer, in his 
British Plutarch ; Milton, in his Paradise 
Regained (book iv.); and Dryden, all 
use the word “ peeler’’ as a plunderer 
or robber. The old Border towers were 
called ‘‘peels.’’ The two words are, of 
course, quite distinct. 


Peep. Tolookat. Asa specimen of 
the ingenuity of certain etymologists in 
tracing our language to Latin and Greek 
sources, may be mentioned Mr. Casau- 
bon’s derivation of peep from the Greek 
opipteuo (to stare at). (Pe-pe-pe ho ἢ 

Playing bo-peep or peep-bo. Hiding or 
skulking from creditors; in allusion to 
the infant nursery game. 


Peep-o’-Day Boys. The Irish in- 
surgents of 1784; so called because they 
used to visit the houses of their oppo- 
nents (called defenders) at peep of day 
searching for arms or plunder, 


55 Peers 


Peeping Tom of Coventry. Leofric, 
Earl of Mercia and Lord of Coventry, 
imposed some very severe imposts on the 
people of Coventry, which his countess, 
Godiva, tried to get mitigated. The 
earl, thinking to silence her importunity, 
said he would comply when she had 
ridden naked from one end of the town 
to the other. Godi’'va took him at his 
word, actually rode through the town 
naked, and Leofric remitted the imposts. 
Before Godi'va started, all the inhabi- 
tants voluntarily confined themselves to 
their houses, and resolved that anyone 
who stirred abroad should be put to 
death, A tailor thought to have a peep, 
but was rewarded with the loss of his 
eyes, and has ever since been called 
Peeping Tom of Coventry. There is 
still a figure in a house at Coventry 
said to represent Peeping Tom. 

Matthew of Westminster (1307) is 
the first to record the story of Lady 
Godi'va: the addition of Peeping Tom 
dates from the reign of Charles II. In 
Smithfield Wall is a grotesque figure of 
the inquisitive tailor in ὁ“ lowing wig and 
Stuart cravat.” 

In regard to the terms made by Leo- 
f'ric, it may be mentioned that Rudder, 
in his History of Gloucester, tells us that 
‘the privilege of cutting wood in the 
Herduoies was granted to the purish- 
ioners of St. Briavel’s Castle, in Glou- 
cestershire, on precisely similar terms 
by the Earl of Hereford, who was at 
the time lord of Dean Forest. 

Tennyson, in his Godiva, has repro- 
duced the story. 


Peerage of the Apostles. In the 
preamble of the statutes instituting the 
Order of St. Michael, founded in 1469 
by Louis XI., the archangel is styled 
‘““my lord,’? and is created a knight. 
The apostles had been already ennobled 
and knighted. We read of ‘‘ the Earl 
Peter,”’ “Count Paul,’ ‘‘the Baron 
Stephen,’”? and so on. ‘Thus, in the 
introduction of a sermon upon St. 
Stephen’s Day, we have these lines :— 


“ Contes vous Vueille la patron 
De St. Estieul le baron.” 

“The Apostles were gentlemen of bloude... 
and Christ... might, if He had esteemed of the 
vayne glorye of this world, have borne coat 
armour.’”—The Blazon of Gentrie. 

I myself was intimate with a rector who always 
laid especial stress on the word Lord, applied to 
Jesus Christ, 

Peers of the Realm. The five 
orders of duke, marquis, earl, viscount, 
and baron. The word peer is the Latin 
parés (equals), and in feudal times all 
great vassals were held equal in rank, 


Peg 


956 


Pélican 


The following is well fitted to a dic- 
tionary of Phrase and Fable :—- 


“Tt is well known that, although the English 
aristocracy recruits itself from the sons of barbers, 
as Lord Tenterden ; merchant tailors, as Count 
Craven ; mercera, a8 the Counts of Coventry, ete., 
it will never tolerate poverty within its ranks, 
The male representative of Simon de Montfort ts 
now a suidler in Tooley Street; the great-erand- 
gon of Oliver Cromwell, a porter in Cork market ; 
and Stephen James Penny, Verger of St. George's, 
Hanover Square, is a direct descendant of the 
fifth son of Edward 111." —The Gauloia, 

Peg or Peggy, for Margaret, cor- 
rupted into Meg or Meggy. Thus, Jat 
or Patty for Martha; voll or Polly, for 


Mary, corrupted into Moll or Molly; ete. 


Peg too Low (4). Low-spirited, 
moody. Our Saxon ancestors were 
accustomed to use peg-tankards, or 
tankards with a peg inserted at equal 
intervals, that when two or more drank 
from the same bowl, no one might 
exceed his fair proportion. We are told 
that St. Dunstan introduced the fashion 
to Liha brawling. 

an a μέ too low means, I want 
another draught to cheer me up. 


“Come, old fellow, drink down toe your peg! 
But do net drink any farther, | bew” 
Longfellow : Golden Legend, iv, 


To take one down a peg. To take the 
conceit out of a braggart or pretentious 
person. The allusion here is not to peg- 
tankards, but to a ship’s colours, which 
used to be raised and edison by pegs; 
the higher the colours are raised the 
greater the honour, and to take them 
down a peg would be to award less 
honour. 


“ Trepanned your oe with intrigue, 
And took your grandees down a peg.” 
Butler: Hudibraa, ii. 2. 


There ave always more round pegs than 
round holes. Always more candidates 
for office than places to dispose of. 


Peg’asos (Greek; Jvgasus, Latin). 
The inspiration of poetry, or, according 
to Boiardo (Orlando Inamorato), the 
horse of the Muses. A poet speaks of 
his Peg’asus, as ‘* My Pegasus will not 
go this morning,’’ meaning his brain will 
not work. ‘I am mounting Pegasus”’ 
—i.e. going to write poetry. “I am 
on my Pegasus,” i.e. engaged in writing 
verses, 

Peg’asus or Peg’asos, according to 
classic mythology, was the winged horse 
on which Bellerophon rode against the 
Chimera, When the Muses contended 
with the daughters of Pi'eros, Hel’icon 
rose heavenward with delight; but 
Peg’asos gave it a kick, stopped its 
ascent, and brought out of the mountain 
the soul-inspiring waters of Hippocrene 
[ Hi p'-po-ereen]. 


Pegg (Katharine). One of the mis- 
tresses of Charles II., daughter of 
Thomas Pegg, of Yeldersey, in Derby- 
shire, Esquire, 


Pegging Away (λέ). Keep on 
attacking, and you will assuredly pre- 
vail. ‘* But screw ee courage to the 
sticking-place, and we'll not fail” 
(Macbeth). Patience and perseverance 
will overcome mountains. It was 
President Lincoln who gave this advice 
to the Federals in the American civil 
war. 

Peine Forte et Dure. A species of 
torture applied to contumacious felons. 
In the reign of Henri IV, the accused 
was pressed to death by weights; in 
later reigns the practice prevai of 
tying the thumbs tightly together with 
whi to induce the accused to 
plead. following ns were 

ressed to death by weights:—Juliana 
Buick, in 1442; Anthony Arrowsmith, 
in 1598; Walter emer ἢ in 1605; 
Major Strangways, in 1657; and even 
in 1741 a person was to death 
at the Cambridge assizes. Abolished 


11 ἃ, 


Pela'gianism. The system or doe- 
trines taught by Pela’ gins (q.v.). He 
denied what is termed birth-sin or 
taint of Adam, and he maintained that 
we have power of ourselves to receive or 
reject the Gospel. 

Pela’gius. A Latinised Greek form 
of the name Morgan—the Welsh mér, 
like the Greek pel'agos, meaning the sea. 


Pelf. Filthy pelf. Money. The 
word was anciently used for refuse or 
rubbish, ‘‘ Who steals my purse steals 
trash.’ Filthy means ungodly; the 
Scripture eee is * unrighteous 
mammon,”’ It is certainly not connected 
with pi/fer, as it is usually given ; but it 
may possibly be with the Anglo-Saxon 
pila, a pile or heap. 

Ἱ The old French word pe/fre means 
spoil. 

Pel‘ias. The huge spear of Achilles, 
which none but the hero could wield; 
so called because it was cut from an ash 
growing on Mount Pel‘ion, in Thes- 

y. 


Pelican, in Christian art, is a symbol 
of charity. It is also an emblem of 
Jesus Christ, by ‘‘ whose blood we are 


healed " (Eucherius and Jerome). (See 
below.) J 
Pelican. A mystic emblem of Christ, 


called by Dante nos'ro Pelicano. St. 


Pelides 


Hieronymus gives the story of the peli- 


957 


can restoring its young ones destroyed. 


by serpents, and his salvation by the 
blood of Christ. The Bestia'riwn says 
that Physiol’ogus tells us that the peli- 
can is very fond of its brood, but when 
the young ones begin to grow they rebel 
against the male bird and provoke his 
anger, so that he kills them; the 
mother returns to the nest in three 
days, sits on the dead birds, pours her 
blood over them, revives them, and they 
feed on the blood. (Bib/. Nat. Belg., 
No. 10,074.) 

“Than sayd the Pellycane, 

When my byrdts be slayne 

With my bloude 1 them reuyue [revive]. 
Scrypture doth record, 
The same dyd our Lord, 


And rose from deth to lyue.” 
Skelton: Armoury of Birdta. 


Pelicans. The notion that pelicans 
feed their young with their blood arose 
from the following habit :—They have a 
large bag attached to their under bill. 
When the parent bird is about to feed 
᾿ its brood, it macerates small fish in this 
baz or pouch, then pressing the bag 
against its breast, transfers the mace- 
rated food to the mouths of the young. 

A pelican in her piety is the represen- 
tation of a pelican feeding her young 
with her blood. The Romans called 
filial love piety, hence Virgil’s hero is 
called pius 7Ene’as, because he rescied 
his father from the flames of Troy, 


Pelides. Sonof Peleus (2 syl.)—that 
is, Achilles, the hero of Homer’s J/iad, 
and chief of the Greek warriors that be- 
sieged Troy. 

“When, like Pel ‘des, bold beyond control, 
Homer ra’sed high to beaveo the loud impetuous 
Beattie: Minstrel. 

Pelion. Jleaping Ossa upon Pelion. 
Adding difficulty to difficulty, embar- 
rassment to embarrassment, etc. When 
the giants tried to scale heaven, they 
placed Mount Ossa upon Mount Pelion 
tor a sealing ladder. 


“Ter sunt conati imponére Pélio Ossam,.” 
Virgil: Georgics, i. 251. 


song.” 


ΘΑ noteworthy hexameter verse. 
Thei of “conati’’? does not elide, nor 
yet the ὁ of ‘‘ Pelio.”’ 


Pell-mell. Headlong; in reckless 
confusion. From the ἰνῶν of pall- 
mall, who rush heedlessly to strike the 
ball. The ‘pall’? is the ball (Italian, 
pula), and the “ mall’ is the mallet or 
bat (Italian, maglia; Latin, malleus). 
Sometimes the game is called ‘ pall 
mall;’’ and sometimes the ground set 
aay for the game, as Pall Mall, Lon- 
on, 


Penang Lawyers 


“ΤΕ is not quite certain that pel/-mell 
is the same compound word as pall-mall. 


Pelle'an Conqueror. Alexander the 
Great, born at Pella, in Macedo’nia. 


“Remember that Pellean conqueror,” Ὁ 
Milton: Paradise Re, ained, ii. 


Pelleas (Sir). Oneof the knights of 
the Round Table. Inthe /aérie Queene 
he goes after the “ blatant beast‘? when 
it breaks the chain with which it had 
been. bound by Sir Calidore. 


Pells. Clerk of the Pells, An officer 
of the Exchequer, whose duty it was to 
make entries on the pe//s or parchment 
rolls. Abolished in 1834. 


Pel’ops. Son of Tan'talos, cut to 
ieces and served as food to the gods. 

16 More’a was called Peloponne’sos or 
the ‘‘island of Pelops,’’ from this my- 
thical king. 

The ivory shoulder of the sons of Pelops. 
The distinguishing or distinctive mark 
of anyone. The tale is that Deme’ter 
ate the shoulder of Pelops when it was 
served up by Tan’‘talos, and when the 
gods put the body back into the cauldron 
to restore it to life, he came forth lack- 
ing a shoulder, Demeter supplied an 
ivory shoulder, and all his descendants 
carried this mark in their bodies. (See 
PYTHAGORAS, ) 


Pelo’rus. Cape di Faro, a promon- 
tory of Sicily. (Virgil: Aneid, iii. 
Gua.) 

“As when the force 
Of subterranean wind transports a hill 


Torn from Pelorus.” ; 
Milton: Paradise Loat, Wk. i. 2. 


Pelos [mud). Father of Physigna’- 
thos, king of the frogs. (Battle of the 
Frogs and Mice.) 


Pelt, in printing. Untanned sheep- 
skins used for printing-balls. (French, 
pelte ; Latin, pellis, a skin.) 


Pen Name, sometimes written 2)0})}- 
de-plume. A fiets ious name assumed by 
an author who does not wish to reveal 
his real name. (See NoM DE GUERRE.) 


Pen and Feather are varieties of 
the same word, the root being the San- 
skrit pat, to fly. (We have the Sanskrit 
pattra, a wing or instrument for flying ; 
Latin, petna or penna, pen; Greek, 
pteron ; Teutonic, phathra; Anglo- 
Saxon, fether ; our ‘‘ feather.’’) 

* Analogous examples are TEAR and 
Tarwe, Nac and Eauvus, Wia and 
ῬΈΒΟΚΕ, HEART and Ceur, etc. 


Penang Lawyers. Clubs. Penang 
sticks come from Penang, or the Prince 
of Wales Island, in the Malaccas. 


Penates 


Pena'tes (3 syl.). The household 


gods of the Romans. 


Pencil of Rays. All the rays that 
issue from one point, or that can be 
focussed at one point (Latin, penicillus, 
little tail, whence peniciliun, a painter’s 
brush made of the hair of a cow’s tail) ; 
so called because they are like the hairs 
of a paint-brush, except at the point 
where they aggregate, 


Pendennis (4)¢/w). The hero of 
Thackeray’s novel, entitled Zhe IHistory 
of Pendennis, ete. 

Major Pendennis. A tuft - hunter, 
similar in character to Macklin’s cele- 
brated Sir Pertinax M‘Sycophant. 


Penden'te Li'te (Latin). 
the suit; while the suit is going on. 


Pendrag’on. A title conferred on 
several British chiefs in times of great 
danger, when they were invested with 
dictatorial power: thus Uter and Arthur 
were each appointed to the office to 
repel the Saxon invaders. Cassibelaun 
was pendragon when Julius Cesar in- 
vaded the island; and soon. The word 
pen is British for head, and dragon for 
leader, ruler, or chief. The word there- 
fore means swmmus rex (chief of the 
kings). 

So much for fact, and now for the 
fable: Geoffrey of Monmouth says, 
when Aure’lius, the British king, was 
poisoned by Ambron, during the in- 
vasion of Pascentius, son of Vortigern, 
there ‘‘ appeared a star at Winchester of 
wonderful magnitude and _ brightness, 
darting forth a ray, at the end of which 
was a globe of fire in form of a dragon, 
out of whose mouth issued forth two 
rays, one of which extended to Gaul 
and the other to Ireland.’’? Uter ordered 
two golden dragons to be made, one of 
which he presented to Winchester, and 


the other he carried with him as his | 


royal standard, whence he received the 
name of Uter Pendragon. (Books viii. 
xiv. xvii.) 

Penelope (4 syl.). Zhe Web or 
Shroud of Penelope, A work ‘never 
‘ending, still beginning ;’’ never done, 
but ever in hand. Penelopé, according 
to Homer, was pestered by suitors while 
her husband, Ulysses, was absent at the 
siege of Troy. To relieve herself of 
their importunities, she promised to 
make a choice of one as soon as she 
had finished weaving a shroud for her 
father-in-law. Every night she un- 
ravelled what she had done in the day, 
and so deferred making any choice till 


958 


Pending | 


Pennals 


Ulysses returned, when the suitors were 
sent to the right-about without cere- 
mony. 


Penel’ophon. The beggar loved by 
King Cophetua. (See COPHETUA.) 

Penel'va. A knight whose adven- 
tures and exploits form a supplemental 
part of the Spanish romance entitled 
Amadis of Gaul. The first four books 
of the romance, and the part above re- 
ferred to, were by Portuguese authors— 
the former by Vasco de Lobeira, of 
Oporto, who died 1403 ; the latter by an 
unknown author, 


Penetra'lia. The private rooms of 
a house; the secrets of a family. That 
part of a Roman temple into which the 
priest alone had access; here were the 
sacred images, here the responses of the 
oracles were made, and here the sacred 
mysteries were performed. The Hol 
ot Holies was the penetralia of the Jews 
Temple. (Latin plural of penetralis.) 

Penfeather (lady Tenelope). The 
lady patroness of the ἽΝ (Stix Walter 
Scott : St. Ronan’s Weill.) 


Peninsular War. The war carried 
on, under the Duke of Wellington, 
against the French in Portugal and 
Spain, between 1808 and 1812. 


Penitential Psalms. The seven 
psalms expressive of contrition—viz. the 
Vi., XXXii., XXXVillL., li., ΟἿΣ. cxxx., cxliii., 
of the Authorised Version, or YVi., 
XXXI., XXXVI, I.) Cl., C&XIX., Gx ον 
the Vulgate. 


Penmanship. 

The ‘Good King Réné,”’ titular king 
of Naples in the middle of the fifteenth 
century, was noted for his initial letters. 

St. Thecla, of Isauria, wrote the entire 
Scriptures out without a blot or mis- 
take. 

St. Theodosius wrote the Gospels in 
letters of gold without a single mistake 
or blur. (See Longfellow’s Golden Legend, 
iv.) (See ANGEL.) 


Penmanship. Dickens says of John 
Bell, of the Chancery, that he wrote 
three hands: one which only de himself 
could read, one which only his clerk 
could read, and one which nobody could 
read. Dean Stanley wrote about as bad 
a hand as man could write. 


Pennals [pen-casces}]. So the Fresh- 
men of the Protestant universities of 
Germany were called, from the pennale 
or inkhorn which they carried with them 
when they attended lectures. 


Pennalism 9 


Pen'nalism. Fagging, bullying, petty 
persecution. The pennals or freshmen 
of the Protestant universities were the 
fags of the elder students, called schorists, 
Abolished at the close of the seventeenth 
century. (See above.) 


Pennant. The common legend is, 
that when Tromp, the Dutch admiral, 
appeared on our coast, he hoisted a 
broom on his ship, to signify his intention 
of sweeping the ships of England from 
the sea; and that the English admiral 
hoisted a horsewhip to indicate his in- 
tention of drubbing the Dutch. Ac- 
cording to this legend, the pennant 
symbolises a horsewhip, and it is not 
unfrequently called ‘‘ the whip.”’ 


Penniless (7/ic). The Italians called 
Maximilian I. of Germany Pochi Danari. 
(1459, 1493-1519.) 


Penny (in the sense of pound). Six- 
penny, eightpenny, and tenpenny nails 
are nails of three sizes. A thousand of 
the first will weigh six pounds; of the 
second, eight pounds; of the third, ten 
pounds, 


Penny sometimes expresses the duo- 
decimal part, as tenpenny and eleven- 
penny silver—meaning silver 10-12ths 
and 11-12ths fine. 

“One was to he tenpenny, another eleven, an- 
other sterling silver.’"—Wetdenfeld : Secrets of the 
A depts. 

Penny (4) (Anglo-Saxon, pening or 
penig). For many hundred years the unit 
of money currency, hence pening -monegre 
(a money-changer). There were two 
coins so named, one called the greater = 
the fifth part of a shilling, and the other 
called the less=the 12th part of a 
shilling. 

My penny of observation (Love's La- 
bows Lost, ii. 1). My pennyworth of 
wit; my natural observation or mother- 
wit. Probably there is some pun 
or confusion between penetration and 
‘‘ penny of observation ”’ or ‘* penn’orth 
of wit.” 

A penny for your thoughts. 
wood’s Dialogue, pt. 11. 4. 
WORTH.) 


Penny-a-liner (4). A contributor 
to the local newspapers, but not on the 
staff. At one time these collectors of 
news used to be paid a penny a line, 
and it was to their interest to spin out 
their report as much as possible. The 
word remains, but is now a misnomer. 


_Penny Dreadfuls. Penny sensa- 
tional papers, which delight in horrors. 


See Hey- 
(See PENNY- 


9 Pennyroyal 


Penny -father (4). <A miser, a 
penurious person, who ‘‘ husbands”? his 
pence. fs 
“Good old penny-father was glad of his liquor.” 

Pasquil: Jests (1629). 

Penny Gaff (4). A theatre the 
admission to which is one penny. 
Properly a gaff is a ring for cock- 
fighting, a sensational amusement which 
has been made to yield to sensational 
dramas of the Richardson type. (Ivish, 
φαΐ, a hook.) 


Penny Hop (1). A rustic dancing 
club, in which each person pays a penny 
to the fiddler. In towns, private dancing 
parties were at one time not uncommon, 
the admission money at the doors being 
one penny. 


Penny Lattice-house (4). <A low 
pothouse. Lattice shutters are a public- 
house sign, being the arms of Fitz- 
warren, which family, in the days of the 
Henrys, had the monopoly of licensing 
vintners and publicans. 


Penny Pots. Pimples and spots on 
the tippler’s face, from the too great 
indulgence in penny pots of beer. 


Penny Readings. Parochial enter- 
tainments, consisting of readings, mus:c, 
ete., for which one penny admission 15 
charged. 

Penny Saved (4). 4 penny saved 
is twopence gained. In French, ‘‘ Un 
centime épargné cn vaut deux.” 

Well, suppose a man asks twopence apiece for 


his oranges, and a haggler obtains hundred at a 
penny apiece, would he save 200 pence by his 
bargain? Ifso,let him go on spending, and he 
will soon become a millionaire. Or suppose, in- 


stead of paying £1,000 for a bad bet, I bad not 
wagered any money at all, would this have been 


worth £2,000 to me? 

Penny Weddings. Wedding ban- 
quets in Scotland, to which a number of 
persons were invited, each of whom paid 
a small sum of money not exceeding a 
shilling. After defraying the expevses 
of the feast, the residue went to the 
newly-married pair, to aid in furnishing 
their house. Abolished in 1645. 


“Vera true, vera true. We'll have a’ to pay 

..asort of penny-wedding it will prove, where 
all men contribute to the young folks’ mainten- 
ance.’—Sir Walter Scott : Fortunes of Nigel, chap. 
XXVil. 

Penny Wise. Unwise thrift. The 
whole proverb is Penny wise and pound 
Joolish, like the man who lost his horse 
from his penny wisdom in saving the 
expense of shoeing it afresh when one of 
its shoes was loose. 

Pennyroyal. Flea-bane, the odour 
being, as it is supposed, hateful to fleas. 


Pennyweight 


960 


Pentreath . 


This is a real curiosity of blundering 
derivation. The Latin word is pu/éciwm, 
the flea destroyer. from pulex, a flea, 
softened into pulégium, and corrupted 
into the English-Latin pule’-regium. 
* Pule,’’ changed first into puny, then 
into penny, gives us ‘*penny-regium,”’ 
whence «penny - ΤΟΥ]. The French 
call the herb pouliot, from pow (a louse 
or flea). 


Pennyweight. So called from being 
the weight of an Anglo-Norman penny. 
Dwt. is d = penny wt. 

Pennyworth or Pen’oth. A small 
quantity, as much as can be bought for 
a penny. Butler says, *‘ This was the 
pen'oth of his thought”? (Hudibras, ii. 
3), meaning that its scope or amount 
was extremely small, 


He has got his pennyworth. THe has 
got due value for his money. 
1.) turn an honest penny. To earn a 


little money by working for it. 


Pen'sion is something weighed out. 
Originally money was ‘weighed, hence 
our pound. When the Gauls were bribed 
ta leave Rome the ransom money was 
weighed in scales, and then Brennus 
threw his sword into the w eight-pan. 
(Latin, pendo, ta weigh money. ) 


Pen’sioners at the Universities and 
Inns of Court. So called from the French 
pension (board), pensionnaire (a boarder, 
one who pays a sum of money to dine 
and lodge with someone else). 


Pen'tacle. A five-sided head-dress 
of fine linen, meant to represent the five 
senses, and worn as a defence against 
demons in the act of conjuration. It is 
also called Solomon's Seal (δήλη Sala- 
mois). A pentacle was extended by 
the magician towards the spirits when 
they: pr oved contumacious. 

* And on her head, lest spirits should invade, 


A pentacle, for more assurance, laid.” 
Rose: Orlando Furioso, iii. 21. 


The Holy Pentacles numbered forty-four, of 
which seven were consecrated to each of the 
planets Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and the Sun: five 
to both Venusand Mercury : and six to the Moon. 
The divers figures were enclosed in a double 
circle, containing the name of God in Hebrew, 
and other mystical words. 

Pentap’olin. An imaginary chief- 
tain, but in reality the drover of a flock 
of sheep. Don Quixote conceived him 
to be the Christian King of the Gara- 
mantians, surnamed the Naked Arm, 
because he always entered the field with 
his right arm bare. The driver of a flock 
from the opposite direction was dubbed 
by the Don the Emperor Alifanfaron 


of theisle of Taproba’na, a pagan. (Cer- 
vantes : Don Quixote, pt. i. bk. ili, 4.) 


Pentap’olis. (Greek, pente polis.) 

(1) The five cities of the plain: Sodom, 
Gomorrah, Admah, Zebo’im, and Zoar; 
four of which were consumed with fire, 
and their site covered with the Lake 
Asphalti'tés, or the Dead Sea. 

(2) The five cities of Cyrena‘ica, in 
Egypt: Bereni’cé, Arsin’oe, Ptolema’is, 
Cyre’né, and Apollo’nia, 

(3) The five cities of the Philistines : 
Gaza, Gath, <As’calon, Ash’dod, and 
Ekron. 

(4) The five cities of Italy in the 
exarchate of Ravenna: Rim’ini, Pesaro, 
Fano, Sinigaglia, and Arco'na. These 
were given by Pepin to the Pope. 

(5) "The Dorian pentapolis : Cni’dos, 
Cos, Lindos, Ial'ysos, and Cami‘ros, 


Pentateuch. The first five books 
of the Old Testament, supposed to be 
written by Moses. (Greek, pente, five ; 
teuchos, a book.) 

The Chinese Pentatench, The five books 
of Confucius:—(1) The Shoo- hing, or 
Book of History ; (2) The Lee- King, or 
Book of Rites ; (3) The Book of Odes, οὐ 
Chinese Homer ; (4) The Yih- King, or 
Book of Changes ; and (5) The Chun- 
Ts'eu, or Spring and Autumn Annals, 


The Samaritan Pentateuch. Aversion 
of the Pentateuch in the Samaritan 
character. It varies in some measure 
from the Jewish version. Not earlier 
than the fourth, nor later than the 
seventh, century. (See Apocrypha: 
2 Esdras xiv. 21-48.) 


Pentecost (Greek, pen/ecosté, fiflieth). 
The festival held by the Jews on the 
fiftieth day after the Passover; our 
Whit-Sunday. 


Penthesile'a. Queen of the Ama- 
zons, slain by Achilles, Sir Toby Belch 
says to Maria, in the service of Olivia — 


“Good-night, 


Penthesilea any fine woiran).” 
Shakespeure : 


Twelfth Night, τι. 

Pent’house (2 syl.). A hat with a 
broad brim. The allusion is to the hood 
of a door, or coping of a roof. (Welsh, 
penty ; Spanish, pentice; French, ap- 
pentice, also pente, a slope.) 


Pentreath (ol/y). The last person 
who spoke Cornish. Daines Barrington 
went from London to the Land’s End to 
visit her. She lived at Mousehole. 


“Hail, a birthplace of old Doll Pent- 
reath, 
The last who , Jabbered Cornish, so says 
Daines . 
Peter Pindar (Ode xxi., To Myself). 


Peony 961 


Perdita 


Peony (Zhe). So called, according 
to fable, from Pon, the physician who 
cured the wounds received by the gods 
in the Trojan war. The seeds were, at 
one time, worn round the neck as a 
charm against the powers of darkness. 
Virgil and Ovid speak of its sanative 
virtues. Others tell us Peon was a 
chieftain who discovered the plant. 

“Vetustissima inventu. peonia est, nomenque 
auctoris retinet, quam quidam pentorobon appel- 
lant, alii glycysiden.’—Pliny, xxv. 10. 

People. Zhe people’s friend. Dr. 
William Gordon, the philanthropist. 
(1801-1849. ) 


People’s Charter (7c). The six 
points of the People’s Charter, formu- 
lated in 1848, are :— 

Manhood Suffrage (now practically 
established). 

Annual Parliaments. 

Vote by Ballot (established), 

Abolition of Property. 

Qualification for Members of Parlia- 
ment (the Qualification Test is abolished). 

Equal Electoral Districts, 


Pepper. 170 pepper one well. To 
give one a good basting or thrashing. 

To take pepper V the nose. To take 
offence. The French have a similar 
locution, ‘‘ a moutarde lui monte au 
nez.?” 

“Take you pepper in youY nose, you mar our 
sport.”’—The Spanish Gipsy, iv. 190. z 

Pepper Gate. When your daughter 
is stolen close Pepper Gate. Pepper Gate 
used to be on the east side of the city of 
Chester. It is said that the daughter 
of the mayor eloped, and the mayor 
ordered the gate to be closed up. ‘‘ Lock 
the stable-door when the steed is stolen.’’ 
(Albert Smith: Christopher Tadpole, 
chap. i.) 


Pepper-and-Salt. A light grey 
colour, especially applied to cloth for 
dresses. . 


Peppercorn Rent (4). A nominal 
rent. A pepper-berry is of no appre- 
ciable value, and given as rent is a 
simple acknowledgment that the tene- 
ment virtually belongs to the person to 
whom the peppercorn is given, 

Peppy Bap. A large erratic boulder, 
east of Leith. 


Per Saltum (Latin). 
promotion or degree given without go- 
ing over the ground usually prescribed. 
Thus, a clergyman on being made a 
bishop has the degree of D.D. given 


him yer saltum—i.e, without taking the | 


61 


By a leap. A | 


B.D. degree, and waiting the usual five 
years. 

“They dare not attempt to examine for the 
superior degree but elect per saltwm.’—Nine- 
teenth Century, January, 1893, p. 66. 

Perceforest (Hing). A prose ro- 
mance, printed at Paris in 1528, and said 
to have been discovered in a cabinet hid 
in the massive wall of an ancient tower 
on the banks of the Humber, named 
Burtimer, from a king of that name 
who built it. The MS. was said to be 
in Greek, and was translated through 
the Latin into French. 

It is also used for Perceval, an Ar- 
thurian knight, in many of the ancient 
romances. 


Perceval (Si), of Wales. A knight 
of the Round Table, son of Sir Pelli- 
nore, and brother of Sir Lamerock. He 
went in quest of the St. Graal (q.v.). 
Chrétien de Troyes wrote the Roman 
de Perceval. (1541-1596.) Menessier 
wrote the same in verse, 


Per’cinet. A fairy prince, who 
thwarts the malicious designs of Grog- 
non, the cruel stepmother of Gracio’sa. 
(Fairy Tales.) 

Percy [ pierce-eye|. When Malcolm 
111. of Scotland invaded England, and 
reduced the castle of Alnwick, Robert 
de Mowbray brought to him the keys of 
the castle suspended on his lance; and, 
handing them from the wall, thrust his 
lance into the king’s eye; from which 
circumstance, the tradition says, he re- 
ceived the name of ‘‘ Pierce-eye,’’ which 
has ever since been borne by the Dukes 
of Northumberland. 

“This is alla fable. The Percies are descended 
from a great Norman baron, who came over with 
William, and who took his name from his castle 
and estate in Normandy.’—Sir Walter Scott : Tales 
of a Grandfather, iv. 

Per’dita. Daughter of Leontés and 
Hermi'oné of Sicily. She was born when 
her mother was imprisoned by Leontes 
out of causeless jealousy. Paulina, a 
noble lady, hoping to sotten the king’s 
heart, took the infant and Jaid it at its 
father’s feet; but Leontes ordered it to 
be put to sea, under the expectation that 
it would drift to some desert island. 
The vessel drifted to Bohemia, where 
the infant was discovered by a shepherd, 
who brought it up as his own daughter. 
In time Florizel, the son and heir of the 
Bohemian king Polixenes, fell in love 
with the supposed shepherdess. The 
match was forbidden by Polixenes, and 
the young lovers fled, under the charge 
of Camillo, to Sicily. Here the story is 
cleared up, Polixenes and Leontes are 


Perdrix 


reconciled, and the young lovers married, 
(Shakespeare: Winter’sTale.) Polixénes 
(4 sy].), Leontes (3 syl.) 

Perdrix, toujours Perdrix. Too 
much of the same thing. Walpole tells 
us that the confessor of ons of the 
French kings reproved him for conjugal 
infidelity, and was asked by the king 
what he liked best. ‘‘ Partridge,’’ re- 
plied the priest, and the king ordered 
him to be served with partridge every 
day, till he quite loathed the sight of his 
favourite dish. After a time, the king 
visited him, and hoped he had been well 
served, when the confessor replied, 
“* Mais oui, perdrix, toujours perdrix.”’ 
“Ah! ah!” replied the amorous mon- 
arch, ‘‘ and one mistress is all very well, 
but not ‘ perdria, toujours perdrix, ”” 

“ Soup for dinner, soup for supper, and soup for 
breakfast again.” — Farquhar: The Inconstunt, 
re Σ 

Pére Duchéne. Jacques Réné Hé- 
bert, one of the most profligate charac- 
ters of the French Revolution. He was 
editor of a vile newspaper so called, con- 
taining the grossest insinuations against 
Marie Antoinette. (1755-1794.) 


Pére la Chaise, the Parisian ceme- 
tery, is the site of a great monastery 
founded by Louis XIV., of which his 
confessor, Pére la Chaise, was made the 
superior. After the Revolution, the 
grounds were laid out for a public ceme- 
tery ; first used in May, 1894. 


Peregrine (3 syl.) ran away from 
home, and obtained a loan of £10 from 
Job Thornbury, with which he went 
abroad and traded; he returned a 
wealthy man, and arrived in London on 
the very day Job Thornbury was made 
a bankrupt. Having paid the creditors 
out of the proceeds made from the 
hardwareman’s loan, he married his 
daughter. (George Colman the Younger : 
John Bull.) 


Peregrine Falcon (4). Thefemale 
is larger than the male, as is the case 
with most birds of prey. The female is 
the falcon of falconers, and the male the 
tercel: It is called peregrine from its 
wandering habits. 


.-Per’egrine Pic’kle. The hero of 
Smollett’s novel so called. A savage, 
ungrateful spendthrift ; fond of practical 
jokes to the annoyance of others, and 
suffering with evil temper the misfor- 
tunes brought on by his own wilfulness. 


Perfec'tionists. A society founded 
by Father Noyes in Oneida Creek. They 
take St. Paul for their law-giver, but 


962 


Perillo Swords 


read his epistles in a new light. They 
reject all law, saying the guidance of 
the Spirit is superior to all human codes. 
If they would know how to act in 
matters affecting others, they consult 
‘“public opinion,’’? expressed by a com- 
mittee ; and the “law of sympathy ᾽ so 
expressed is their law of action. In 
material prosperity, this society is un- 
matched by all the societies of North 
America. (WV. Hepworth Dixon: New 
America, vil. 20, 21.) 

Perfide Albion! 
words of Napoleon I. 

Per'fume (2 syl.) means simply 
‘*from smoke’? (Latin, per fumum), the 
first perfumes having been obtained by 
the combustion of aromatic woods and 
gums. ‘Their original use was in sacri- 
tices, to counteract the offensive odours 
of the burning flesh, 


Perfumed Terms of the Time. So 
Ben Jonson calls euphemisms. 


Pe’ri (plur. Penis). Peris are delicate, 
gentle, fairy-like beings of Eastern my- 
thology, begotten by fallen spirits. They 
direct with a wand the pure in mind the 
way to heaven. These lovely creatures, 
according to the Koran, are under the 
sovereignty of Eblis ; and Mahomet was 
sent for their conversion, as well as for 
that of man. 

“ Like peris’ wands, when pointing oxt the road 


For some pure spirit to the blest abode.” x 
Thomas Moore: Lalla Rookh, pt. i. 


(French), The 


Per‘icles, Prince of Tyre (Shale- 
speare). The story is from the Gesta 
Romano'rum, Where Periclés is called 
“¢ Apollo’nius, King of Tyre.’’ The story 
is also related by Gower in his Confessio 
Amantis (bk. vili.). 


Pericles’ Boast. When Pericles, 
Tyrant of Athens, was on his death-bed, 
he overheard his friends recounting his 
various merits, and told them they had 
omitted the greatest of all, that no 
Athenian through his whole administva- 
tion had put on mourning through his 
severity—i.¢c. he had caused no Athenian 
to be put to death arbitrarily. 


Perillo Swords. /evi//o is a “little 
stone,’ a mark by which Julian del 
Rey, a famous armourer of Tole’do and 
Zaragoza, authenticated the swords of 
his manufacture. All perillo swords 
were made of the steel produced from 
the mines of Mondragon. The swords 
given by Katharine of Aragon to Henry 
VIII. on his wedding-day were all 
Perillo blades. 


Perillos 


963 Perseus 


The most common inscription was, 
“& Draw me not without reason, sheathe me 
not without honors.” 


Perillos and the Brazen Bull. 
Perillos of Athens made a brazen bull 
for Phal’aris, Tyrant of Agrigentum, 
intended for the execution of criminals, 
They were shut up in the bull, and, fires 
being lighted below the belly, the metal 
was made ‘‘red hot.’? The cries of the 
victims, reverberating, sounded like the 
lowing of the bull. Phalaris admired 
the invention, but tested it on Perillos 
himself. (Sce INVENTORS.) 


Perilous Castle. The castle of Lord 
Douglas was so called in the reign of 
Edward I., because good Lord Douglas 
destroyed several English garrisons sta- 
tioned there, and vowed to be revenged 
on anyone who should dare to take pos- 
session of it. 
**Castle Dangerous.’’ (See Introduction 
of Castle Dangerous.) 


Per'ion. A fabulous king of Gaul, 
father of ‘‘ Amadis of Gaul.’’ His en- 
counter with the lion is one of his best 
exploits. It is said that he was hunting, 
when his horse reared and snorted at 
sceing a lion in the path. Perion leaped 
to the ground and attacked the lion, but 
the lion overthrew him ; whereupon the 
king drove his sword into the belly of 
the beast and killed him. (Amadis de 
Gaul, chap. i.) 


Peripatetics. Founder of the Peri- 
prtetics—Aristotle, who used to teach 
his disciples in the covered walk of the 
Lycénm. This colonnade was called the 
perip'a‘os, because it was a place for 
walking about (peri pateo). 


Peris. (See PERT.) 


Peris’sa (excess or 
Greek, Perissos). Step-sister of Elissa 
and Medina. These ladies could never 
agree on any subject. (Spenser: Faérie 


Queene, bk. 11.) 
Periwig. (Sve PERUKE.) 


Periwinkle. The bind-around plant. 
(Anglo-Saxon, pincwincle ; French, per- 
venche ; Latin, pervincio, to bind thor- 
oughly.) In Italy it used to be wreathed 
round dead infants, and hence its Italian 
name, for di morto. 


Perk. To perl: oneself. To plume 
oneself on anything. (Welsh, percu, to 
smarten or plume feathers. pevc, neat.) 

You begin to perk up a bit—i.e. to get 
a little fatter and more plump after an 
illmess. (See above.) 


prodigality ; 


Sir Walter Scott calls it. 


Perku’nos. God of the elements. 
The Sclavonic Trinity was Perku’nos, 
Rikollos, and Potrimpos. (Grimm: 
Deutsche Mythologic.) 


Perm’ian Strata. So called from 
Perm, in Russia, where they are most 
distinctly developed. 


Pernelle (J/adame). A scolding old 
woman in Molitre’s Zartuffe. 


Perpendiculars. Parties called 
crushes, in which persons have to stand 
almost stationary from the time of 
entering the suite of rooms to the time 
of leaving them. 


“The night before I duly attended my mother 
to three fashionable crowds, ‘ perpendiculars’ 
is the best name for them, for there is seldom 
more than standing room.’—L£dna Lyall: Dono- 
van, Chap. ix. 


Perpet’ual Motion. Restlessness ; 
fidgety or nervous disquiet; also a 
chimerical scheme wholly impracticable. 
Many have tried to invent a machine 
that shall move of itself, and never stop ; 
but, as all materials must suffer from 
wear and tear, it is evident that such an 
invention is impossible. 

“Tt were better to be eaten to death with rust, 
than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual 
motion.”—Shakespeare: 2 Henry IV., i. 2. 

Pers. Persia; called Fars. (French, 
Perse.) 


Persecutions (716 ten great). (1) 
Under Nero, a.p. 64; (2) Domitian, 95: 
(3) Trajan, 98; (4) Hadrian, 118; (5) 
Pertinax, 202, chiefly in Egypt; (6) 
Maximin, 236; (7) Decius, 249; (8) 
Valerian, 257 ; (9) Aurelian, 272; (10) 
Diocletian, 302. 


“Tt would be well if these were the only reli- 
gious persecutions ; but. alas ! those on the other 
side prove the truth of the Founder: “T came not 
to send peace [on earth]. but asword” (Matt x. 
31). Witness the longand relentless persecutions 
of the Waldenses and Albigenses, the six or seven 
crusades, the wars of Charlemagne against the 
Saxons, and the thirty years’ war of Germany. 
Witness, again, the persecution of the Guises, the 
Bartholomew slaughter, the wars of Louis XIV. 
on the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, the 
Dragonnades, and the wars against Holland. 
Witness the bitter 1ersecutions stirred up by 
Luther, which spread to England and Scotland. 
No wars so lasting, so relentless, so bloody as re- 
ligious wars. It bas been no thin red line. 


Persep’olis, called by the Persians 
‘““The Throne of Jam-sheid,’? by whom 
it was founded. Jam-sheid removed 
the seat of government from Balk to 
Istakhar. 


Per’seus (2 syl.). A bronze statue 
in the Loggia dei Lanzi, at Florence. 
The best work of Benvenuto Cellini 
(1500-1562). 


Persevere 


Perseus’ flying horse. A ship. 

“Perseus conquered the head of Medu’sa, and 
did make Peg‘ase, the most swift ship, which he 
always calls Perseus’ flying horse.”—Destruction 
of Troy. 
“ The strong-ribbed hark through liquid moun- 

_ tains cut... 
Like Perseus’ horse.” ) , 
Shakespeare: Troilus and Cressida, i.3. 

Perseve’re (3 syl.). This word comes 
from an obsolete Latin verb, sevéro (to 
stick rigidly) ; hence sevérws (severe or 
rigid), Asseverate is to stick rigidly to 
what you say; persevere is to stick 
rigidly to what you undertake till you 
have accomplished it. (Ler-sevéro.) 


Persian Alexander (7/ic). Sandjar 
(1117-1158). (See ALEXANDER.) 


Persian Bucepha/‘los (7/ic). Sheb- 
diz, the charger of Chosrves Parviz. (See 
BUCEPHALOS. ) 


Person (Latin, persona, a mask ; per- 
sona'tus, one who wears a mask, an 
actor), <A ‘*person’’ is one who imper- 
sonates a character. Shakespeare says, 
‘* All the world’s a stage, and all the 
men and women merely players ” or per- 
sons. When we speak of the ‘‘ person 
of the Deity ’’ we mean the same thing, 
the character represented, as that of the 
Father, or that of the Son, or that of the 


964 


Holy Ghost. There is no more notion of 


corporeality connected with the word 
than there is any assumption of the body 
of Hamlet when an actor impersonates 
that character. 


Persona Grata (Latin). 
ceptable person ; one liked. 

“The Count [Miinster] is not a persona grata at 
court, as the royal family did not relish the course 
he took in Hanoverian affairs in 1866,"—Z'ruth, 
October 22nd, 1885. 

Perth is Celtic for a bush. The 
county of Perth is the county of bushes. 

Fair Maid of Perth. Catherine Glover, 
daughter of Simon Glover, glover, of 
Perth. Her lover is Henry Gow, alias 
Henry Smith, alias Gow Chrom, alias 
Hal of the Wynd, the armourer, foster- 
son of Dame Shoolbred. (Sir Walter 
Scott: Fair Maid of Perth.) 

The Five Articles of Perth were those 
passed in 1618 by order of James VI., 
enjoining the attitude of kneeling to 
receive the elements ; the observance of 
Christmas, Good Friday, Easter, and 
Pentecost; the right of confirmation, 
etc. They were ratified August 4, 1621, 
called Black Saturday, and condemned 
x wae General Assembly of Glasgow in 

OOo. 


Peru. That’s not Peru. 
something utterly worthless. 


An ac- 


A French 


Said of | 


Peter 


expression, founded on the notion that 
Peru is the El Dorado of the world. 


Peru’vian Bark, called also Jesnit’s 
Bark, because it was introduced into 
Spain by the Jesuits. ‘‘ Quinine,’’ from 
the same tree, is called by the Indians 
quinguina, (See CrINCHONA.) 


Peruke or Periwig. Menage in- 
geniously derives these words from the 
Latin pilus (‘‘hair’’), Thus, pilus, pelus, 
peli’tus, pelu'ticus, peli'tica, perua, per- 
ruque. ‘The wigs are first mentioned in 
the 16th century ; in the next century 
they became very large. The fashion 
began to wane in the reign of George 
Ill. Periwig is a corrupt form of the 
French word perruque. 

Pescec’ola. The famous swimmer 
drowned in the pool of Charybdis. The 
tale says he dived once into the pool, 
and was quite satisfied with its horrors 
and wonders; but the King Frederick 
then tossed in a golden cup, which Pes- 
cecola dived for, and was never seen 
again. (See Schiller’s Diver.) 

Pess’imist. 
thing is as bad as possible, 
pess'imus, the worst.) | 

Petard’. THHoist on his own petard. 
Caught in his own trap, involved in the 
danger he meant for others. The petard 
was a conical instrument of war em- 
ployed at one time for blowing open 
gates with gunpowder. The engineers 
used to carry the petard to the place 
they intended to blow up, and fire it at 
the small end by a fusee. Shakespeare 
spells the word petar : ‘*’'Tis the sport to 
have the engineer hoist with his own 
petar.”? (Hamilet, ii. 4.) 


“Turning the muzzles of the guns Magdala- 
wards, and getting a piece of lighted rope [the 
party] blazed away as vigorously as possible .. . 
and tried to hoist Theodore on his own petard.”’— 


Dailu paper. 

Petaud. 715 the court of King 
Petaud, where everyone is master. There 
is no order or discipline at all. This is 
a French proverb. Petaud is a _cor- 
ruption of peto (I beg), and King 
Petaud means king of the beggars, in 


One who fancies every- 
(Latin, 


whose court all are equal. (See AL- 
SATIA.) 
Peter. (Sve BLUE PETER.) 


Great Peter. A bell in York Minster, 
weighing 102 tons, and hung in 1845. 

Lord Peter. The Pope in Swift’s 
Tale of a Tub. 

Rob Peter to pay Paul. (See ROBBING.) 

St. Peter. Patron saint of fishers and 
fishmongérs, being -himself a fisher- 
man. 


Peter Botte Mountain 96: 


Petitio Principii 


St. Peter, in Christian art, is repre- 
sented as an old man, bald, but with a 
flowing beard ; he is usually dressed in a 
white mantle and blue tunic, and holds 
in his hand a book or scroll. His pecu- 
liar symbols are the keys, and a sword, 
the instrument of his martyrdom. 

He has got St. Peter's fingers—i.e. the 
fingers of a thief. The allusion is to the 
fish caught by St. Peter with a piece of 


money in its mouth. They say that a | 


thief has a fish-hook on every finger. 


Peter Botte Mountain, in the is- 
land of Mauritius; so called from a 
Dutchman who scaled its summit, but 
lost his life in coming down. It is a 
rugged cone, more than 2,800 feet in 
height. 


Peter Parley. The nom de plume of 
Samuel G. Goodrich, an American 
(1793-1860). 


Peter Peebles. 
suit, 
Redgauntlet. Peter is a litigious hard- 
hearted drunkard, poor as a church- 
mouse, and a liar to the backbone. His 
““ganging plea’’ is Hogarthian comic, 
as Carlyle says. 


Peter-pence. An annual tribute of 
one penny, paid at the feast of St. Peter 
to the see of Rome. At one time it was 
collected from every family, but after- 
wards it was restricted to those ‘‘ who 
had the value of thirty pence in quick or 
live stock.”’ 
England from 740 till it was abolished 
by Henry VIII. 


Peter Pindar. The xom de plume 
of Dr. John Wolcot (Vool-cut), of Dod- 
brooke, Devonshire. (1738-1819.) 


Peter Porcupine. William Cob- 
bett, when he was a Tory. We have 
Peter Porcupine’s Gazette and the Porcu- 
pine Papers, in twelve volumes. (1762- 
1835.) 


Peter Wilkins was written by 
Robert Pultock, of Clifford’s Inn, and 
sold to Dodsley, the publisher, for £20. 


Peter of Provence came into pos- 


Peter Peebles’ Law- 


session of Merlin’s wooden horse. There | 


is a French romance called Peter of 
Provence and the Fair Magalo'na, the 
chief incidents of which are connected 
with this flying charger. 


Peter the Great of Russia built 
St. Petersburg, and gave Russia a place 
among the nations of Europe. He laid 
aside his crown and sceptre, came to 
England, and worked as a common 


In Sir Walter Scott’s novel of | 


This tax was collected in | 


labourer in our dockyards, that he might 
teach his subjects how to build ships. 


Peter the Hermit (in Tasso), ‘“‘ the 
holy author of the crusade” (bk. i.). 
It is said that six millions of persons 
assumed the cross at his preaching. 


Peter the Wild Boy, found 1725 in 
a wood near Hameln, in Hanover, at 


| the supposed age of thirteen. (Died 
1785.) 
Peterboat. A boat made to go 


either way, the stem and stern being 
both alike. 


Pe'terborough (Northamptonshire). 
So called from the monastery of St. 
Peter, founded in 655. Tracts relating 
to this monastery are published in 
Sparke’s collection. 


Pe'terloo. The dispersal of a large 
meeting in St. Peter’s Field, Man- 
chester, by an armed force, August 16th, 
1819. The assemblage consisted of 
operatives, and the question was par- 
liamentary reform. The word, suggested 
by Hunt, is a parody upon what he ab- 


| surdly called ‘the bloody butchers of 


Waterloo.’’ 

It isa most exaggerated phrase. The massacre 
consisted of six persons accidentally killed by 
the rush of the crowd, when the military and 
some 400 Special constables appeared on the field, 

Petit-Maitre, A fop; a lad who 


assumes the mauners, dress, and affecta- 
tions of aman. The term arose before 
the Revolution, when a great dignitary 
was styled a grand-maitre, and a preten- 
tious one a petit-maitre. 


Petit Serjeantry. Holding lands 
of the Crown by the service of rendering 


| annually some small implement of war, 


as a bow, a sword, a lance, a flag, an 
arrow, and the like. Thus the Duke 
of Wellington holds his country seat 


| at Strathfieldsaye and Apsley House, 


London, by presenting a flag annually 


| tothe Crown on the ai n'versary of the 


battle of Waterloo. The flag is hung in 
the guard-room of the state apartments 
of Windsor Castle till the next anniver- 
sary, when it becomes the perquisite of 
the officer of the guard. The Duke of 
Marlborough presents also a flag on the 
anniversary of the battle of Blenheim. 
for his estate at Blenheim. This also is 
placed in the guard-room of Windsor 
Castle. 


Petitio Princip'ii (4). A begging 


| of the question, or assuming in the pre- 


mises the question you undertake to 
prove. Thus, if a person undertook to 


Petitioners 966 


prove the infaliibility of the pope, and 
were to take for his premises—(1) Jesus 
Christ promised to keep the apostles and 
their successors in all the truth ; (2) the 
popes are the regular successors of the 
apostles, and therefore the popes are 
infallible—it would be a vicious syllo- 
gism from a petitio principii. 

Petitioners and Abhorrers. Two 
political parties in the reign of Charles 
11. When that monarch was first re- 
stored he used to grant everything he 
was asked for; but after a time this be- 
came a great evil, and Charles enjoined 
his loving subjects to discontinue their 
practice of ‘ petitioning.’’ Those who 
agreed with the king, and disapproved 
of petitioning, were called Abhorrers ; 
those who. were favourable to the 
objectionable practice were nicknamed 
Petitioners. 

Petrarch. The English Petrarch. 
Sir Philip Sidney; so called by Sir 
Walter Raleigh. Cowper styles him 
ἐς the warbler of poetic prose.’’ (15d4- 
1536.) 

Pet'rel. The stormy petrel. So 
named, according to tradition, from the 
Italian Petrello (little Peter), in allusion 
to St. Peter, who walked on the sea. 
Our sailors call them ‘‘ Mother Carey’s 
chickens.’? They are called stormy be- 
cause in a gale they surround a ship to 
catch small animals which rise to the 
surface of the rough sea; when the gale 
ceases they are no longer seen. 


Petrified (3syl.). The petrified city. 
Ishmonie, in Upper Egypt, is so called 
from the number of petrified bodies of 
men, women, and children to be seen 
there. (Latin, petra-fio, to become 
rock.) 


Petrobrus sians or Petrobrusians, 
A religious sect, founded in 1110, and so 
called from Peter Bruys, a Provengal. 
He declaimed against churches, asserting 
that a stable was as good as a cathedral 
for worship, and a manger equal to an 
altar. He also declaimed against the 
use of crucifixes. 


Pet'ronel. Sir Petrone! Flash. A 
braggadocio, a tongue-doughty warrior. 


“Give your scholler degrees and your lawyer 


his fees, 
And some dice for Sir Petronell Flash.” 
Brit. Bibl. 
Petru’chio. A gentleman of Verona 


who undertakes to tame the haughty 
Katharine, called the Shrew. He marries 
her, and without the least personal 
chastisement brings her to lamb-like 


Phaeton 
submission. (Shakespeare: Taming of 
the Shrew.) 
Petticoat. A woman. 


aE There's ἃ petticoat will prove to be the cause 
of this.’"—JZawley Smart; Struck Down, chap. xi, 


Petticoat Government. Femalerule., 


Petticoat and Gown. The dress. 
When the gown was looped up, the 
petticoat was an important item of dress. 

The poppy is said to have a red petti- 
coat and a green gown; the daffodil, a 
yellow petticoat and green gown; a 
candle, a white petticoat; and so on in 
our common nursery rhymes— 

1 ‘ The king’s daughter is coming to town, 

With a red petticoat and a green gown.” 

2“ Daffadown dilly is now come to town, 

Τ ἃ yellow petticoat and a green gown.” 

Petto. Jn petto. In secrecy, in re- 
serve (Italian, in the breast). The pope 
creates cardinals in petto—t.e. in his own 
mind—and keeps the appointment to 
himself till he thinks proper to an- 
nounce it. 

_ “Belgium, a department of France in petto—i.e. 
in the intention of the people.’—The Herald, 1837. 

Petty Cu’ry (Cambridge) means ‘‘The 
Street of Cooks.’’ It is called Parra 
Coke'via in a deed dated 13 Edward IIT, 
Probably at one time it was part of the 
Market Hall. It is a mistake to derive 
Cury from Eewie. Dr. Pegge derives it 
from cura've, to cure or dress food. 

Peutinge’rian Map. <A map of 
the roads of the ancient Roman world, 
constructed in the time of Alexander 
Seve’rus (A.D. 226), made known to us 
by Conrad Peutinger, of Augsburg. 


Peveril of the Peak. Sir Geoffrey 
the Cavalier, and Lady Margaret his 
wife ; Julian Peveril, their son, in love 
with Alice Bridgenorth, daughter of 
Major Bridgenorth, a Roundhead ; and 
William Peveril, natural son of William 
the Conqueror, ancestor of Sir Geofirey. 
(Sir Walter Scott : Peveril of the Peak.) 


Pewter. To do 
one’s work. 
“ But if she neatly scour her pewter, 
Give her the money that is due τ᾿ her.” 
King: Orpheus und Eurydiee. 


Pheedria [wantonness}. Handmaid 
of Acrasia the enchantress. She sails 
about Idle Lake in a gondola. Seeing 
Sir Guyon she ferries him across the lake 
to the floating island, where Cymoch’'les 
attacks him. Pheedria interposes, the 
combatants desist, and the little wanton 
ferries the knight Temperance over the 
lake again. (Spenser: Faerie Queene, it.) 

Pha’eton. The son of Phebus, who 
undertook to drive the chariot of the 


To scour the pewter, 


Phalanx 967 


sun, was upset, and caused great mis- 
chief ; Libya was parched into barren 
sands, and all Africa was more or less 
injured, the inhabitants blackened, and 
vegetation nearly destroyed. 
“ Gallop apace, you flery-footed steeds, 
Towards Phoebus’ mansion ; sucha waggoner 
As Phaeton would whip you to the wes 
And bring in cloudy night immediately.” 
Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet, 111. 2. 

Pha'eton. Asort of carriage ; so called 
from the sun-car driven by Phaeton. 
(See above.) 

Phaeton’s bird. The swan. Cyenus 
was the friend of Phaeton, and lamented 
his fate so grievously that Apollo 
changed her into a swan, and placed 
her among the constellations. 


Phalanx. The close order of battie 
in which the heavy-armed troops of a 
Grecian army were usually drawn up. 
Hence, any number of people distin- 
guished for firmness and solidity of union. 


Phalaris. The brazen bull of Phal’- 
avis. Perillos, a brass-founder of Athens, 
proposed to Phal’aris, Tyrant of Agri- 
gentum, to invent for him a new species 
of punishment; accordingly, he cast a 
brazen bull, with a door in the side. The 
victim was shut up in the bull and 
roasted to death, but the throat of the 
engine was so contrived that the groans 
of the sufferer resembled the bellowings 
of a mad bull. Phal’aris commended 
the invention, and ordered its merits to 
be tested by Perillos himself. 

The epistles of Phal'aris. Certain let- 
ters said to have been written by Phal’- 
aris, Tyrant of Agrigen’tum, in Sicily. 
Boyle maintained them to be genuine, 
Bentley affirmed that they were forgeries. 
No doubt Bentley is right. 


Phaleg, in the satire of Absalom and 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is My. 
Forbes, a Scotchman, 


Phantom Ship. (Se CarMILHAN.) 
“ Or of that phantom ship, whose form 
Shoots like a meteor through the storm ; 
When the dark scud comes driving hard, 
And lowered is every topsail yard... 
And well the doomed spectators know 
*Tis harbinger of wreck and woe.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Rokeby, ii. 11. 
Pha’on. A young man greatly ill- 
treated by Furor, and rescued by Sir 
Guyon. He loved Claribel, but Phile’- 
mon, his friend, persuaded him that 
Claribel was unfaithful, and, to prove his 
words, told him to watch in a given 
place. He saw what he thought was 
Claribel holding an assignation with 
what seemed to be a groom, and, rushing 
forth, met the true Claribel, whom he 
slew on the spot. Being tried for the 


᾽ 


Pharaoh 


murder, it came out that the groom was 
Philemon, and the supposed Claribel 
only her lady’s maid. He poisoned 
Philemon, and would have murdered 
the handmaid, but she escaped, and 
while he pursued her he was attacked by 
Furor, This tale is to expose the intem- 
perance of revenge. (Spenser: Facrie 
(Qucene, i, 4, 28.) 


Phar’amond. King of the Franks 
and a knight of the Round Table. He 
is said to have been the jirst king of 
France. This reputed son of Marcomir 
and father of Clo'dion, is the hero of one 
of Calprenéde’s novels. 


Pha’raoh (2 syl.). The kine. It is 
the Coptic article P and the word ον). Ὁ 
(king). There are eleven of this title 
mentioned in Holy Scripture : — 

i. Before Solomon's time. 

(1) The Pharaoh contemporary with 
Abraham (Gen. xii. 25). 

(2) The good Pharaoh who advanced 
Joseph (Gen. xli.). 

(9) The Pharaoh who ‘knew not 
Joseph”? (Exod. i. 8). 

(4) The Pharaoh who was drowned in 
the Red Sea (Exod, xiv. 28); said to be 
Menephthes or Meneptah, son of Ram’- 
eses IT. 

(6) The Pharaoh that protected Hadad 
(1 Kings xi. 19). 

(6) The Pharaoh whose daughter 
Solomon married (1 Kings iii. 1; ix. 
16). 

li. After Solomon’s time, 

(7) Pharaoh Shishak, who warred 
against Rehobo’am (1 Kings xiy, 25, 26). 

(8) Pharaoh Shabakok, or ‘‘ So,’’ with 
whom Hoshea made an alliance (2 Kings 
xvii. 4). 

(9) The Pharaoh that made a league 
with Hezekiah against Sennacherib, 
called Tirhakah (2 Kings xviii. 21; xix, 
Ὁ}: 

(10) Pharaoh Necho, who warred 
against Josiah (2 Kings xxiii. 29, etc.). 

(11) Pharaoh Hophra, the ally of 
Zedekiah (Jer. xliv. 30); said to be 
Apries, who was strangled B.c. 570. 
(Sze Kina.) 

After Solomon’s time the titular 
word Pharaoh is jomed to a proper 
name. 

iii. Other Pharaohs of historie note. 

(1) Cheops or Suphis I. (Dynasty IY.), 
who built the great pyramid. 

(2) Cephrenes orSuphis IT., his brother, 
who built the second pyramid. 

(3) Mencheres, his successor, who 
built the most beautiful pyramid of the 
three. 


Pharaoh 


968 Pharos _ 


(4) Memnon or A-menophis III. 
(Dynasty XVIII.), whose musical statue 
is so celebrated. 

(5) Sethos I. the Great (Dynasty XTX.), 
whose tomb was discovered by Belzoni. 

(6) Sethos II., called Proteus (Dynasty 
XIX.), who detained Helen and Paris in 
Egypt. 

(7) Phudris or Thuoris, who sent aid 
to Priam in the siege of Troy. 

(8) Rampsinitus or Rameses Neter, 
the miser (Dynasty XX.), mentioned by 
Herodotos, 

(9) Osorthon IV. or Osorkon (Dynasty 
XXIII.), the Egyptian Hercules. 


Pharaoh, in Dryden’s satire of Absa- 
lom and Achitophel, means Louis XLV. 
of France. 

“If Pharaoh's doubtful suecour he (Charles IT.) 
should use, 

A foreign aid would more incense the Jews 

(English nation.” 

Pharaoh who Knew not Joseph. 
Supposed to be Menephtah, son of 
Rameses the Great. Rider Haggard 
adopts this hypothesis. After Rameses 
the Great came a period of confusion in 
Egypt, and it is supposed the Pharaoh 
who succeeded wasa usurper. No trace 
of the destruction of Pharaoh and his 
host has been discovered by Egyptolo- 
gists. 

His wife was Asia, daughter of Moza- 
hem. Pharaoh cruelly maltreated her 
for believing in Moses. He fastened her 
hands and feet to four stakes, and laid a 
millstone on her as she lay exposed to 
the scorching sun; but God took her, 
without dying, into Paradise, (Sale: Al 
Koran, lxvi. note.) 

Among women, four have been per- 
fect: Asia, wife of Pharaoh; Mary, 
daughter of Imran ; Khadijah, daughter 
of Khowailed (Mahomet’s first wife); and 
Fatima, Mahomet’s daughter. Attri- 
buted to Mahomet. 


Pharaoh who made Joseph his 
Viceroy. Supposed to be Osertesen II. 
There is a tablet in the sixth year of his 
reign which is thought to represent 
Jacob and his household. 


Pharaoh’s Chicken. The Egyptian 
vulture, so called from its frequent re- 
presentation in Egyptian hieroglyphics. 


Pharaoh’s Daughter, who brought 
up Moses, Bathia. 


“Bathia, the daughter of Pharaoh, came, at- 
tended by her maidens, and entering the water 
she chanced to see the box of bulrushes, and, 
pitying the infant,she rescued him from death.” 


—The Talmud. 
Phar'ian Fields, Egypt. So called 


from Pharos, an island on the coast, 

noted for its lighthouse. 

“And passed from Pharian fields to Canaan 
land.” Milton: Psalm exiy. 

Pharisees means “separatists ἢ 
(Heb. parash, to separate), men who 
looked upon themselves as holier than 
other men, and therefore refused to hold 
social intercourse with them, The Tal- 
mud mentions the following classes :— 

(1) The ‘‘Dashers,” or ‘‘ Bandy- 
legged’? (Nikfi), who scarcely lifted 
their feet from the ground in walking, 
but ‘‘dashed them against the stones,’’ 
that people might think them absorbed 
in holy thought (Matt. xxi. 44). 

(2) The ‘Mortars,’ who wore a 
**mortier,’? or cap, which would not 
allow them to see the passers-by, that 
their meditations might not be disturbed. 
‘““Having eyes, they saw not’? (Mark 
viii. 18). 

(3) The ‘ Bleeders,’? who inserted 
thorns in the borders of their gaberdines 
to prick their legs in walking. 

(4) The ‘‘Cryers,’? or ‘ Inquirers,’’ 
who went about crying out, ‘‘ Let me 
know my duty, and I will do it’’ (Matt. 
xix. 16-22). 

(5) The ‘‘ Almsgivers,’? who had a 
trumpet sounded before them to summon 
the poor together (Matt. vi. 2). 

(6) The ‘‘Stumblers,’’ or ‘‘ Bloody- 
browed”’ (Avzai), who shut their eyes 
when they went abroad that they might 
see no women, being ‘‘ blind leaders of 
the blind’? (Matt. xv. 14). Our Lord 
calls them ‘‘ blind Pharisees,’’ “‘ fools 
and blind,’’ 

(7) The ‘‘Immovables,’’ who stood 
like statues for hours together, ‘‘ praying 
in the market places’? (Matt. vi. 5). 

(8) The ‘‘ Pestle Pharisees”? (Medin- 
kia), who kept themselves bent double 
like the handle of a pestle. 

(9) The ‘‘Strong-shouldered”’ (Shik- 
mt), who walked with their back bent as 
if carrying on their shoulders the whole 
burden of the law. 

(10) The ‘‘ Dyed Pharisees,”’ called by 
our Lord ‘‘ Whited Sepulchres,’’ whose 
externals of devotion cloaked hypocrisy 
and moral uncleanness. (Zualmud of 
Jerusalem, Berakoth, ix; Sota, v. 7; 
Talmud of Babylon, Sota, 22 b.) 

Pha'ros. A lighthouse; so called 
from the lighthouse built by Sostratus 
Cnidius in the island of Pharos, near the 
port of Alexandria, in Egypt. It was 
450 feet high, and could be seen at the 
distance of 100 miles. Part was blown 
down in 793. This Pharos was one of 
the Seven Wonders of the World. 


᾿ Pharsalia 


969 


Philisides 


Pharsa'lia. An epic in Latin hex- 
ameters by Lucan. The battle of Phar- 
salia was between Pompey and Cesar. 
Pompey had 45,000 legionaries, 7,000 
cavalry, and a large number of auxili- 
aries; Caesar had 22,000 legionaries and 
1,000 cavalry. Pompey’s battle-cry was 
“¢ Hercules invictus ;’? that of Caesar was 
“Venus victrix.”? On this occasion Cesar 
won the battle. 


Pheasant. So called from Phasis, a 
stream of the Black Sea. 

“There was formerly at the fort of Potia pre- 
serve of pheasants, which birds derive their 
Enropean name from the river Phasis (the pre- 
sent Rion).”"—Lieut.-General Monteith. 

Phe’be (2 syl.). A’ shepherdess. 
(Shakespeare : As You Like It.) 

Phelis, called the Fair. The wife of 
Sir Guy, Earl of Warwick. (Sve Guy.) 

Phenom’enon (plural, phenoim'cna) 
means simply what has appeared (Greek, 
phainomai, to appear). It is used in 
science to express the visible result of an 
experiment. In popular language it 
means a prodigy. (Greek, phainoménon.) 


Phid'ias. The French Phidias. Jean 
Goujon (1510-1572); also called the 
Correggio of sculptors. (2) J. B. Pigalle 
(1714-1785). 


Phiga'lian Marbles. A series of 
twenty-three sculptures in alto-relievo, 
discovered in 1812 at Phiga’lia, in Ar- 
οα΄ ἴα, and in 1814 purchased for the 
British Museum. They represent the 
combat of the Centaurs and Lapithe, 
and that of the Greeks and Am’azons. 
They are part of the ‘‘ Elgin Marbles’’ 
(qv). " 

Philadelphia Stones, called Chris- 
tian Bones. Itis said that the walls of 
Philadelphia, in Turkey, were built of 
the bones of Christians killed in the Holy 
Wars. This idle tale has gained credit 
from the nature of the stones, full of 
pores and very light, not unlike petrified 
bones. Similar incrustations are found 
at Knaresborough and elsewhere. 


Philander (in Orlando Furioso). 
sort of Joseph. (See GABRINA.) 


Philan'dering. Coquetting with a 
woman; paying court, and leading her 
to think you love her, but never declar- 
ing your preference. The word is coined 
from Philander, the Dutch knight who 
coquetted with Gabri’na (q.v.). 


Philanthropist (712). John How- 
ard, who spent much of his life in visiting 
the prisons and hospitals of Europe. 
(1726-1790.) (Greek, phil-anthropos.) 


A 


Philemon and Baucis entertained 
Jupiter and Mercury when everyone else 
refused them hospitality. Being asked 
to make a request, they begged that they 
might both die at the same time. When 
they were very old, Philemon was 
changed into an oak, and Baucis into a 
linden tree. (Ovid: Metamorphoses, iii. 
631, etc.) 

Philip. Philip, remember thou art 
mortal, A sentence repeated to the 
Macedonian king every time he gave an 
audience. 

Philip sober. When a woman who 
asked Philip of Macedon to do her jus- 
tice was snubbed by the petulant mon- 
arch, she exclaimed, ‘ Philip, I shall 
appeal against this judgment.’’ ‘‘ Ap- 
peal!’’ thundered the enraged king, 
“and to whom will youappeal?”’ “ΤῸ 
Philip sober,’’ was her reply. 

St. Philip is usually represented bear- 
ing a large cross, or a basket containing 
loaves, in allusion to St. John vi. 5-7. 


Philip Nye (in Hudibras), One of 
the assembly of Dissenting ministers, 
noted for his ugly beard. 


Philip Quarl. A castaway sailor, 
solaced on a desert island by a monkey, 
Imitation of Robinson Crusoe. (1727.) 


Philippe Egalité. Louis Philippe 
Joseph, Duc d’ Orléans (1747-1793), 


Philip’pic. A severe scolding; an 
invective. So called from the orations 
of Demos'thenes against Philip of Mace- 
don, to rouse the Athenians to resist his 
encroachments. The orations of Cicero 
against Anthony are called ‘ Philip- 
pics.”’ 


Philip’pins. A Russian sect; so 
called from the founder, Philip Pusto- 
swiit. They are called Old Faith Men, 
because they cling with tenacity to the 
old service books, old version of the 
Bible, old hymn-book, old prayer-book, 
and all customs previous to the reforms 
of Nekon, in the 17th century. 


Philips (Join), author of The Splendid 
Shilling, wrote a georgic on Cider in 
blank verse-—a serious poem modelled 
upon Milton’s epics. 

“Philips, Pomona’s bard, the second thou 
Who nobly durst, in rhyme-unfettered verse. 
With British freedom sing the British song.” 
Thomson: Autumn. 

Philisides (4 syl.). Philip Sidney 
(Phil’ Sid). Spenser uses the word in 
the Pastoral Alglogue onthe Death of Sir 
Philip. 


‘* Philisides is dead,” 


Philistines 


970 Philosopher's Stone 


Philistines, meaning the ill-behaved 
and ignorant. The word so applied 
arose in Germany from the Charlies or 
Philisters, who were in everlasting colli- 
sion with the students; and in these 
‘‘town and gown rows ”’ identified them- 
selves with the town, called in our uni- 
versities ‘* the snobs.”’ Matthew Arnold, 
in the Cornhill Magazine, applied the 
term Philistine to the middle class, which 
he says is ‘‘ignorant, narrow-minded, 
and deficient in great ideas,’’ insomuch 
that the middle-class English are objects 
of contempt in the eyes of foreigners. 


Philis'tines (3 syl.). Earwigs and 
other insect tormentors are so called in 
Norfolk. Bailiffs, constables, ete. ‘The 
Philistines are upon thee, Samson”’ 
(Judges xyi.). 


Philis'tinism. A cynical indifference 
and supercilious sneering at religion. 
The allusion is to the Philistines of 
Palestine. 


Phillis, A play written in Spanish 
by Lupercio Leonardo of Argensola. 
(See Don Quixote, vol. iii. p. 70.) 


Philoc’lea, in Sidney’s Arcadia, is 
Lady Penelope Devereux, with whom 
he was in love; but the lady married 
another, and Sir Philip transferred his 
affections to Frances, eldest daughter of 
Sir Francis Walsingham. 


Philoctetes. The most famous 
archer in the Trojan war, to whom 
Hercules, at death, gave his arrows. 
He joined the allied Greeks, with seven 
ships, but in the island of Lemnos, his 
foot being bitten by a serpent, ulcerated, 
and became so offensive that the Greeks 
left him behind. In the tenth year of 
the siege Ulysses commanded that he 
should be sent for, as an oracle had de- 
clared that Troy could not be taken 
without the arrows of Herculés. Phil- 
octetés accordingly went to Troy, slew 
Paris, and Troy fell. 

’ The Philoctetés of Sophoclés is one 
of the most famous Greek tragedies. 
Laharpe wrote a French tragedy, and 
Warren, in 1871, a metrical drama on 
the same subject. 


Phil’omel or 
NIGHTINGALE. ) 

Philome'lus. The Druid bard that 
accompanied Sir Industry to the Castle 
of Indolence. (Thomson, canto ii. 34.) 


Philome'la. (Sve 


Philopce’men, general of the Achean. 


league, made Epaminondas his model. 


| chance and sufferance.”’ 


He slew Mechan’idas, tyrant of Sparta, 
and was himself killed by poison, 
Philos’opher. The sages of Greece 
used to be called sophoi (wise men), but 
Pythag’oras thought the word too arro- 
gant, and adopted the compound phi/o- 
soph'oi (lover of wisdom), whence ‘‘ philo- 


sopher,’? one who courts or loves 
wisdom. 
Philosopher. ‘There was never yet 


philosopher who could endure the tooth- 
ache patiently, however they have writ 
the style of gods, and made a push at 
(Shakespeare : 
Much Ado About Nothing, v. 1.) 

The Philosopher. Marcus <Aure'lius 
Antoninus is so called by Justin Martyr. 
(121, 161-180.) 


Leo VI., Emperor of the East. (866, 
886-911.) 
Porphyry, the Antichristian. (233- 


305.) 

The Philosopher of China. Confucius, 
His mother called him Little Hillock, 
from a knob on the top of his head. 
(B.c. 591-479.) 

The Philosopher of Ferney. Voltaire; 
so called from his chateau of Ferney, 
near Gene’va. (1694-1778.) 

The Philsopher of Malmeshiury, Thomas 


Hobbes, author of Leviathan. (1588- 
1679.) 
The Philosopher of Persia. Abou Ebn 


Sina, of Shiraz. (Died 1037.) 
The Philosopher of Samosa'ta, Tucan. 


“Just such another feast as was that of the 
Laplithe, described by the philosopher of San:o- 
sata.”—Rabela’s: Pantagruel, book iy. 15. 


The Philosopher of Sans- Souci’. Fred- 
erick the Great (1712, 1740-1786). 

The Philosopher of Wimbledon, John 
Horne Took, author of Diversions of 
Purley. (1786-1812.) 


Philosopher with the Golden 
Thigh. Pythagoras, General Zelislaus 
had a golden hand, which was given 
him by Bolislaus III. when he lost his 
right hand in battle. Nuad had an 
artificial hand made of silver by Cred. 


“Quite discard the symbol of the old philo- 
sopher with the golden thigh.”—Labelais : Pun- 
tagruel (Prologue to book v.). 


Philosopher’s Egg (Tic). A pre- 
servative against poison, and a cure for 
the plague; a panacea. The sheil of a 
new egg being pricked, the white is 
blown out, and the place filled with 
saffron or a yolk of an egg mixed with 
saffron, 

Philosopher’s Stone. The way to 
wealth. The ancient alchemists thought: 
there was a substance which would 


Philosopher’s Tree 


convert all baser metals into gold. This 
substance they called the philosopher’s 
stone. Here the word stone is about 
equal to the word substratum, which is 
compounded of the Latin sw) and stratus 
(spread-under), the latter being related 
to the verb stand, stood, and meaning 
something on which the experiment 
stands. It was, in fact ,a red powder or 
amalgam to drive off the impurities of 
baser metals, (Stone, Saxon, sta.) 

Philosopher's stone. According to 
legend, Noah was commanded to hang 
up the true and genuine philosopher’s 
stone in the ark, to give light to every 
living creature therein. 

Inventions discovered in searching for 
the philosopher's stone, It was in search- 
ing for this treasure that Botticher 
stumbled on the invention of Dresden 
porcelain manufacture ; Roger Bacon on 
the composition of gunpowder; Geber 
on the properties of acids ; Van Helmont 
on the nature of gas; and Dr. Glauber 
on the ‘‘ salts’? which bear his name. 


Philosopher’s Tree (7c), or Diana’s 
tree. Anamalgam of crystallised silver, 
obtained from mercury in a solution of 
silver ; so called by the alchemists, with 
whom Diana stood for silver. 


Philosophers, 

The Seven Sages or Wise Men of Greece. 
Thalés, Solon, Chilon, Pit'tacos, Bias, 
Cleobu'los, Periander; to which add 
Sosi’adés, Anacharsis the Scythian, My- 
son the Spartan, Epimen’idés the Cretan, 
and Pherecy’dés of Syros. 

Philosophers of the Acade'mie sect. 
Flato, Speusippos, Xenoc’ratés, Pol’e- 
mon, Cratés, Crantor, Arcesila’os, Care’- 
adés, Clitom’achos, Philo, and Anti’- 
ochos. 

Philosophers of the Cynic sect. Antis’- 
thenés, Diog’enés of Sino’pé, Mon’imos, 
Onesic’ritos, Cratés, Metroc’lés, Hippar’- 
chia, Menippos, and Menede’mos of 
Lamps’‘acos. 

Philosophers of the Cyvrenaie sect. 
Aristippos, Hege’sias, Annic’eris, Theo- 
do’ros, and Bion. 

Philosophers of the Eleae or Fret'riae 
sect. Phedo, Plis'thenés, and Menede'’- 
mos of Eret’ria. 

Philosophers of the Eleatic sect. Xen- 
oph’anes, Parmen’idés, Melissos, Zeno of 
Tarsos, Leucippos, Democ’ritos, Pro- 
tag’oras, and Anaxarchos. 

Philosophers of the Epiecure'an sect, 
Epicu’ros, and a host of disciples. 

Philosophers of the Heracli'tan sect. 
Heracli'tos; the names of his disciples 
are unknown. 


Philosophers of the Ionic sect, Anaxi- 


> mander, Anaxim’enés, Anaxag’oras, and 


Archela’os. 

Philosophers of the Italie sect. Pythag’- 
oras, Emped’oclés, Epicharmos, Archy’- 
tas, Alemzon, Hip’pasos, Philola’os, and 
Endoxos. 

Philosophers of the Mega'ie sect. 
Euclid, Eubw'lidés, Alex’inos, Euphantos, 
Apollo’nios, Chron’os, Diodo’ros, Ich’- 
thyas, Clinom’achos, and Stilpo. 

Philosophers of the Peripatec'ie sect. 
Aristotle, Theophrastos, Straton, Lyco, 
Aristo, Critola’os, and Diodo’ros. 

Philosophers of the Sceptie sect. Pyrrho 
and Timon. 

Philosophers of the Socratic scet. Soc'- 
ratés, Xen’ophon, Als’chinés, Crito, 
Simon, Glauco, Simmias, and Ce’bes. 

Philosophers of the Stoic sect. Zeno, 
Cleanthés, Chrysippos, Zeno the Less, 
Diog’enes of Babylon, Antip’ater, Pance- 
tios, and Posido’nios. 


Philesophy. futher of Philosophy. 
Albrecht von Haller, of Berne. (1708- 
1777.) 

Philot'ime. The word means lorer of 
honowr. The presiding Queen of Hell, 
and daughter of Mammon. (Speer: 
Faérie Queene, ii.) 
© And fair Philotimé, the rightly hight, 

The fa-rest wight that wouneth under sky.” 

Book 11. canto vil. 

Philox’enos of Cythera. A most 
distinguished dithyrambic poet. He was 
invited to the court of Dionysius of 
Syracuse, who placed some poems in his 
hand to correct. Philoxenos said the 
only thing to do was to run a line 
through them and put them in the fire. 
For this frankness he was cast into 
prison, but, being released, he retired 
to Ephesus. The case of Voltaire and 
Frederick II. the Great of Prussia is an 
exact parallel. 

© Bolder than Philoxenus, 
Down the veil of truth I tear.” 
Amand Charlemagne: Les Grandes Veérités. 

Philox’enes of Leucadia. A great 
epicure, who wished he had the neck of 
a crane, that he might enjoy the taste of 
his food the longer. (Aristotle: Ethics, 
τι" LOS) 

Philt’er (A). A draught or charm to 
incite in another the passion of love. 
The Thessalian philters were the most 
renowned, but both the Greeks and 
Romans used these dangerous potions, 
which sometimes produced insanity. 
Lucre’tius is said to have been driven 
mad by a love-potion, and Calig’ula’s 
death is attributed to some philters 


Phineus 


administered to him by his wife, (Ὁ - 
so'nia, Brabantio says to Othello— 


“Thou hast practised on her [Desdemona] with 
foul charms, Ε : 
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or min- 
erals 
That weaken motion.” ἢ 
Shakespeare : Othello, i, 1. 


“ (‘ Philter,”’ Greek, philtron, philos, 
loving ) 

Phi'neus (2 syl.). A blind king of 
Thrace, who had the gift of prophecy. 
Whenever he wanted to eat, the Harpies 
came and took away or defiled his food. 
“ Blind Tham’yris, and blind Meeonidés, 

And Tire’sias, and Phi‘neus, prophets old.” 

Milton : ’aradise Lost, iii. BA. 

Phiz, the face, is a contraction of 
physiognomy. 

Phiz. Hablot K. Browne, who illus- 
trated the Lickwick Papers, ete. 

Phlez’ethon. A river of liquid fire 
in Hadés. (Greek, philego, to burn.) 

“Fierce Phlegethon, 
Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, ti. 

Phleg’ra, in Macedonia, was where 
the giants attacked the gods. Encel’ados 
was the chief of the giants. 


Phlogiston. The principle or ele- 
ment of heat, according to Stahl. When 
latent the effect is imperceptible, but 
when operative it produces all the 
effects of heat from warmth to com- 


bustion. Of course, this theory has long 
been exploded. (Greek, ph/ogis' ton, in- 
flammable.) 


Phocensian Despair. Desperation 
which terminates in victory. In the 
days of Philip, King of Macedon, the 
men of Phocis had to defend themselves 
single-handed against the united forces 
of all their neighbours, because they 
presumed to plough a sacred field 
belonging to Delphi. The Phocensians 
suggested that they should make a huge 
pile, and that all the women and 
children should join the men in one vast 
human sacrifice. The pile was made, 
and everything was ready, but the men 
of Phocis, before mounting the pile, 
rushed in desperation on the foe, and 
obtained a signal victory. 


Pho’cien, surnamed Zhe Good, who 
resisted all the bribes of Alexander and 
his successor. It was this real patriot 
who told Alexander to turn his arms 
against Persia, their common enemy, 
rather than against the states of Greece, 
his natural allies. 

“ Phocion the Good, in public life severe, 


To virtue still inexorably firm.” 
Thomson: Winter. 


972 Phoenix Period 


Pheebe. The moon, sister of Phebus. 


Phebus. The sun or sun-god. 
In Greek mythology Apollo is called 
Pheebos (the sun-god), from the Greek 
verb phao (to shine). 

“The rays divine of vernal Phoebus shine” 


Thomson; Spring. 

Pheenix. Said to live a certain 
number of years, when it makes in 
Arabia a nest of spices, sings a melo- 
dious dirge, flaps his wings to set fire to 
the pile, burns itself to ashes. and comes 
forth with new life, to repeat the former 
one, (See PHa:nrx PERIOD.) 

“ The enchanted pile of that lonely bird, 

Who sings at the last his own death-lay, 
Andin music and perfume dies away.” 
Thomas Moore: Paradise and the Peri. 

Phenix, as a sign over chemists’ shops, 
was adopted from the association of this 
fabulous bird with alchemy. Paracelsus 
wrote about it, and several of the al- 
chemists employed it to symbolise their 
vocation. 

A phenix anong women, A phoenix of 
his kind. A paragon, unique; because 
there was but one phoenix at a time. 

“ If she be furnished with a mind so rare, 

She is alone the Arabian bird.” 
Shakespeare : Cymbeline, \. 7. 

The Spanish Phenix. Lope de Vega 
is so called by G. H. Lewes. 

“ Insigne poeta, a cuyo verso Ο prosa 
Ninguno le avyentaja ni aun Mega.” 

Phoenix Alley (London). The alley 
leading to the Phoenix theatre, now 
called Drury Lane. 


Phoenix Park (Dublin). A corrup- 
tion of the Gaelic Fion-uise (fair water), 
so called from a spring at one time re- 
sorted to as a chalybeate spa. 


Pheenix Period or Cycle, generally 
supposed to be 500 years ; Tacitus tells 
us 1t was 250 years; R. Stuart Poole 
that it was 1,460 Julian years, like the 
Sothic Cycle ; and Lipsius that it was 
1,500 years. Now, the phcenix is said 
to have appeared in Egypt five times: 
(1) in the reign of Sesostris; (2) in the 
reign of Am-asis; (3) in the reign of 
Ptolemy Philadelphos ; (4) a year or two 
prior to the death of Tiberius ; and (5) in 
A.D. 384, during the reign of Constantine. 
These dates being accepted, a Phcenix 
Cycle consists of 300 years: thus, 
Sesostris, B.c. 866; Am-asis, B.C. 566; 
Ptolemy, B.c. 266; Tiberius, A.D. 34; 
Constantine, A.D. 334. In corroboration 
of this suggestion it must be borne in 
mind that Jesus Christ, who died A.p. 34, 
is termed the Phenix by monastic writers. 
Tacitus mentions the first three of these 
appearances, (Annales, vi. 28.) 


Phoenix Theatre 


973 


Piarists 


Phenix Theatre. (See PHOENIX 


ALLEY.) 


Phenix Tree. The palm. In 
Greek, phoinix means both phoenix and 
palm-tree. 

“Now IT will believe... that in Arabia 
There is one tree, the plienix’ throne—one 
phoenix : 
At this hour reigneth there.” ey 
Shakespeare : The Tempest, iii. 3. 

Phoo’ka or Pooka, A spirit of most 
malignant disposition, who hurries people 
to their destruction. He sometimes 
comes in the form of an eagle, and some- 
times in that of a horse, like the Scotch 
kelpie (g.v.). (Lvish superstition.) 


Phor’cos. ‘‘The old man of the 
sea.’ He was the father of the three 
Graizr, who were grey from their birth, 
and had but one eye and one tooth 
common to the three. (Greck myth- 
ology-) 


Phor'mio. A parasite who accom- 
modates himself to the humour of every- 
one. (Zerence : Phormio.) 


Phrygians. An early Christian sect, 
so called from Phrygia, where they 
abounded. They regarded Monta‘nus as 
their prophet, and laid claim to the spirit 
of prophecy. 


Phry’ne (2 syl.). A courtesan or 
Athenian hetra. She acquired so 
much wealth by her beauty that she 
offered to rebuild the walls of Thebes if 
she might put on them this inscription : 
“* Alexander destroyed them, but Phryné 
the hetra rebuilt them.’”’ The Cnidian 
Venus of Praxit’elés was taken from this 
courtesan. Apelles’ picture of Venus 
Rising from the Sea was partly from his 
wife Campaspe, and partly from Phryné, 
who entered the sea with dishevelled hair 
as a model. 


Phylac’'tery. A charm or amulet. 
The Jews wore on their wrist or forehead 
a slip of parchment bearing a text of 
Scripture. Strictly speaking, a phylac- 
tery consisted of four pieces of parch- 
ment, enclosed in two black leather cases, 
and fastened to the forehead or wrist of 
the left hand. One case contained Ex. 
ΧΙ, 1-10, 11-16; and the other case, 
Deut. vi. 4-9, xi. 13-21. The idea 
arose from the command of Moses, 
‘‘Therefore shall ye lay up these my 
words in your heart. . 
for asign upon yourhand . . . as front- 
lets between your eyes’ (Deut. xi. 18). 
(Greek, phylactérion, from the verb 
phylasso, to watch, 


. andbind them | 


Phyllis. A country girl. 
Eclogues, iii. and vy.) 
“ Country messes, 
Which the neat-handed Phyllis dresses.” 
Milton: L' Allegro. 
Phyllis and Brunetta. Rival beauties 
who for a long time vied with each other 
on equal terms. For a certain festival 
Phyllis procured some marvellous fabric 
of gold brocade to outshine her rival ; 
but Brunetta dressed the slave who bore 
her train in the same material, clothing 
herself in simple black. Upon this 
crushing mortification Phyllis went home 
and died. (Spectator.) 


Phyllising the Fair. Philandering 
—making soft speeches and winning 
faces at them. Garth says of Dr. Atter- 
bury— 

“ He passed his easy hours, instead of prayer, 

In madrigals and phyllising the fair.” 

The Dispensary, i. 

Phynnod deree [the Hairy-one]. A 
Manx spirit, similar to the Scotch 
“* brownie,’’ and German ‘‘ kobold.’’ He 
is said to be an outlawed fairy, and the 
offence was this: He absented himself 
without leave from Fairy-court on the 
great levée-day of the Harvest-moon, 
being in the glen of Rushen, dancing 
with a pretty Manx maid whom he was 


(Virgil: 


courting. 


Physician. 1716. Beloved Physician. 
Lucius, supposed to be St. Luke, the 
evangelist (Col. iv. 14). 

The Prince of Physicians. 
the Arabian (980-1037). 


Physician or Fool. Plutarch, in his 
treatise On the Preservation of Health, 
tells us that Tiberius was wont to say, 
“Α man of thirty is hisown physician or 
a fool.” 


Physician, heal Thyself. ‘First 
cast out the beam from thine own eye, 
and then shalt thou see clearly to cast 
out the mote which is in thy brother’s 
eye.”’ 

Physigna'thos [ove who swells the 
cheeks|. King of the Frogs, and son of 
Pelus [mud], slain by Troxartas, the 
Mouse-king. : 

“ Great Physignathos IJ, from Peleus’ race, 

Begot in fair Hydromede’s embrace, 

Where, by the nuptial bank that paints his side, 

The swift Erid’anus delights to glide.” 

Parneil: Battle of the Frogs, )k. i. 

Piarists, or Brethren of the Pious 
School. A religious congregation founded 
in the 16th century by Joseph of Cala- 


Avicenna, 


| sanza, for the better instruction and 


education of the middle and higher 
classes. 


Pic-nic 


974 


Pickwick 


Piec-nic. Dr. John Anthony derives 
it from the Italian piccola nicchia (a small 
task), each person being set a small 
task towards the general entertainment, 
(French, piguec-nique.) 

“ἢ The modern custom dates from 1802, but pie- 


nics, called éranoi, where each person contributed 
something. and one was appointed “ master of the 


Pic’ador (Spanish). A horseman; 
one who in bull fights is armed with a 
gilt spear ( pica-dovada), with which he 
pricks the bull to madden him for the 
combat. 


Picards. Animmoral sect of fanatics 
in the 15th century ; so called ‘from 
Picard of Flanders, their founder, who 
called himself the New Adam, and tried 
to introduce the custom of living nude, 
like Adam in Paradise. 

You areas hot-headed as a Picard. This 
isa French expression, and is tantamount 
to our ‘‘ Peppery as ἃ Welshman.”’ 


Picaroen. <A pirate; one who plun- 
ders wrecks. (French, picoreus, picorer, 
to plunder; Scotch, pikary, rapine ; 
Spauish, p.cavon, a villain.) 

Picatrix. The pseudonym of a 
Spanish monk, author of a book on de- 
monology, collected from the writings of 
224 Arabic magicians. It was dedicated 
to King Alfonso. 

“At the time whenT was a student in the Uni- 
versity of Toulouse, that same reverend VPicatrix, 
rector of the Diabol’cal Faculty, was wont to tell 
us that devils did naturally fear the bright glanc- 


int of swords, as much as the splendour and light 
of the sun.”—fabeluis: Pantagruel, iii. 23. 


Piccadilly (London). So called from 
Piccadilla Hall, the chief depét of a cer- 
tiin sort of lace, much in vogue during 
the reign of Queen Elizabeth. The lace 
was called piceadilly lace, from its little 
spear-points (a diminutive of pica, a pike 
or spear). In the reign of James I. the 
high ruff was called a piccadilly, though 
divested of its lace edging. Barnaby 
Rice, speaking of the piccadillies, says— 
“He that some forty years sithen should 
have asked after a piccadilly, I wonder 
who would have understood him, and 
would have told him whether it was fish 
or flesh’? (1614). Another derivation 
is given in the Glossographia (1681). 
Piccadilly, we are there told, was 
named from Higgins’ famous ordinary 
near St. James’s, called Higgins’s Picka- 
dilly, ‘‘because he made his money by 
selling piccadillies’’ (p. 495). (See also 
Hone: Everyday Book, vol, ii. p. 381.) 


” Where Sackville Street now stands was Picca- 
dilla Hall, where piccadillies or turnovers were 
sold, which gave name to Piccadilly.’"—Pennant. 


Picci‘nists (1774-1780). A French 
musico-political faction, who contended 
that pure Italian musicis higher art than 
the mixed German school. In other 
words, that music is the Alpha and 
Omega of opera, and the dramatic part 
is of very minor importance. 

Niccolo Piccino, of Naples (1728-1801), was the 
rival of Christopher Glick, of Bohemia, and these 
two musicians gave birth to a Jong paper war. 
Those who sided with the Italian were called 
Piccinist:, those who sided with the German were 
called Gliickists, 

Pick. To throw; same as pitch. 
The instrument that throws the shuttle 
is called the picker. (Anglo-Saxon, 
pye-an, to throw, pull, or pick.) 

“ ΤῊ] pick you o'er the pales.” 
Shakespeare: Henry VITT., ν, 3. 

Pick Straws (70). To show fatigue 
or weariness, as birds pick up straws to 
make their nests (or bed), 


“ Their eyelids did notonee pick strawa, 
And wink, and sink away ; 
No, no; they were as briskas bees, 
And loving things did say.” 
Peter Pindar: Orson and Ellen, canto y. 


Pick a Hole in his Coat (70). To 
find fault with one; to fix on some small 
offence as censurable, 


* And shall such mobas thou, not worth a groat, 
Dare pick a hole in such a great man’s coat?” 
Peter Pindar: Epistle to John Nichols, 


Pickanin’ny. <A young child. A 
West Indian negro word. (Spanish, 
pequéno, little ; nino, child.) 

Pick’elher’ringe (5syl.). A buffoon 
is so called by the Dutch. 

Pickers and Stealers. The hands. 


In French argot hands are called havpes, 
which is a contracted form of Aarpions ; 
and harpion is the Italian arpione, a 
hook used by thieves to pick linen, etc., 
from hedges, <A harpe d'un chien means 
a dog’s paw, and ‘‘J/ mania trés bien ses 
harpes’’ means he used his fingers very 
dexterously. 

* Rosencrantz. My lord, you once did love me. 

Hamlet. And do still, by these pickers and 
stealers."—Shakespeare: Hamlet, iii. 3. 

Pickle. A rod in pickle. One ready 
to chastise with at any moment. Pickled 
means preserved for use. (Danish, 
pekel.) 

LI’minapretty pickle. In asorry plight, 
or state of disorder. 

“ How cam'st thou in this pickle?” 
hakespeare: Tempest, v. 1. 


Pickwick (Jf. Samuel). The hero 
of the Pickwick Papers, by Charles 
Dickens. He is a simple-minded, bene- 
volent old gentleman, who wears spec- 
tacles, breeches, and short black gaiters, 
has a bald head, and “" good round belly.”’ 
He founds a club, and travels with its 


Pickwickian 


members over England, each member 
being under his guardianship. 


Pickwickian. Jn a Pichwickian 
sense. An insult whitewashed. Mr. 
Pickwick accused Mr. Blotton of acting 
in “a vile and calumnious manner,”’ 
whereupon Mr. Blotton retorted by call- 
ing Mr. Pickwick ‘‘a humbug.” 
finally was made to appear that both had 
used the offensive words only in a Pick- 
wickian sense, and that each had, in 
fact, the highest regard and esteem for 
the other. So the affront was adjusted, 
and both were satisfied, 


“ Lawyers and politic ans daily abuse each other 


in a Pickwickian sense.’—Bowditch. 
Pic’rochole, King of Lernée. A 
Greek compound, meaning ‘“ bitter- 


bile,”’ or choleric. The rustics of Utopia 
one day asked the cake-bakers of Lerné 
to sell them some cakes, but received 
only abuse; whereupon a quarrel en- 
sued. When Picrochole was informed 
thereof, he marched with all his men 


against Utopia. King Grangousier tried | 


to appease the choleric king, but all his 
efforts were in vain. At length Gargan- 
tua arrived, defeated Picrochole, and put 
his army to the rout. (Rabelais : Gar- 
guitud, dk. 1.) 

King Picrochole’s statesman. One who 
without his host reckons of mighty 
achievements to be accomplished. ‘The 
Duke of Smalltrash, Earl of Swashbuck- 
ler, and Captain Durtaille advised King 
Picrochole to divide his army into two 


parts: one was to be left to carry on the | 


war in hand, and the other to be sent 
forth to make conquests. They were to 
take England, France and Spain, Asia 
Minor, the Greek Islands, and Turkey, 
Germany, Norway, Sweden, Russia, 
ete., and to divide the lands thus taken 
among the conquerors. Echeph’ron, 
an old soldier, replied—‘‘ A shoemaker 
bought a ha’poth of milk; with this he 
was going to make butter, the butter 
was to buy a cow, the cow was to havea 
calf, the calf was to be changed for a 
colt, and the man was to becomea nabob; 
only he cracked his jug, spilt nis milk, 
and went supperless to bed.”? (Rabelais : 
Gargantua, bk. i. 33.) 

In 1870 the French emperor (Napo- 
leon III.) was induced to declare war 
against Germany. He was to make a 
demonstration and march in triumph to 
Berlin. Having taken Berlin, he was to 
march to Italy to restore the Pope to his 
dominions, and then to restore the Queen 
of Spain to her throne; but he failed in 
the first, lost his throne, and Paris fell 


Tt | perforce submit to Napoleon. 


975 


Pie Corner 


into the hands of the allied Prussian 
army. 

His uncle’s ‘‘ Berlin Decree,’’ for the 
subjection of Great Britain, was a similar 
miscalculation. This decree ordained 
that no European state was to deal with 
England; and, the trade of England 
being thus ruined, the kingdom must 
But as 
England was the best customer of the 
European states, the states of Europe 
were so impoverished that they revolted 
against the dictator, and the battle of 
Waterloo was his utter downfall. 


Picts. The inhabitants of Albin, 
north-east of Scotland. The name is 
usually said to be the Latin picti (painted 
{or tattooed] with woad), but in the 
Trish chronicles the Picts are called Pic- 
tones, Vietores, Piccardaig, etc. 


Picts’ Houses. Those underground 
buildings more accurately termed ‘‘earth 


| houses,’’ as the Pict’s House at Kettle- 


burn, in Caithness. 


Picture. A model, or beau-ideal, as, 
He is the picture of health ; A perfect 
picture of a house. (Latin, pictara.) 

The Picture. Massinger has borrowed 
the plot of this play from Bandello of 
Piedmont, who wrote novelles or tales in 
the fifteenth century. 


Picture Bible. 


Picture Galleries. 

London is famous for its Constables, 
Turners, Landseers, Gainsboroughs, ete. 

Madrid for its Murillos, Van Dycks, 
Da Vincis, Rubenses, etc. 

Dresden for its Raphael, Titian, and 
Correggio. 

Amsterdam for its Dutch masters. 

Rome for its Italian masters. 


(See ΒΙΒΙ1ΙΑ.) 


Pictures. (Sze CABINET, CARTOONS, 


etc.) 
Pie. Looking for a pie's nest (French). 


| Looking for something youare not likely 


to find. (See below.) 

He is in the pie’s nest (French). Ina 
fix, in great doubt, in a quandary. The 
pie places her nest out of reach, and for- 
tifies it with thorny sticks, leaving only a 
small aperture just large enough to ad- 
mit her body. She generally sits with 
her head towards the hole, watching 
against intruders. 

“Je m’en vay chercher un grand peut-estre. 1] 
est au nid de la pie.” —Rabelais. 

Pie Corner (London). So named 
from an eating-house—the [ Mag] pie. 


Pie Poudre 


Pie Poudre. A court formerly held 
at a fair on St. Giles’s Hill, near Win- 
chester. It was originally authorised by 
the Bishop of Winton from a grant of 
Edward IV. Similar courts were held 
elsewhere at wakes and fairs for the 
rough-and-ready treatment of pedlars 
and hawkers, to compel them and those 
with whom they dealt to fulfil their con- 
tracts. (French, pied poudreux, dusty 
foot. A vagabond is called in Paaidh 
pied, poudreus.) 
“ Have its proceedings disallowed or 
Allowed, at fancy of pie-powder.” 
Butler: Hudibras, pt. ii. 2. 

Piebald. Party-coloured. A corrup- 
tion of pie-bailed, speckled likea pie. The 
words Ball, Dun, and Favelare frequently 
given as names to cows. ‘‘ Ball’? means 
the cow witha mark on its face ; ‘‘ Dun ”’ 
means the cow of a dun or brownish- 

ellow colour; and ‘‘ Favel’’ means the 

ay cow. (Ball, in Gaelic, means a mark ; 
baltach, speckled.) 


Pied de la Lettre (11). 
literally. 

“ Of course, you will not take everything I have 
said quite au pied de la lettre.’—Fra. Ulle: A 
Philosophical Trilogy. 

Pied Piper of Hamelin. The Pied 
Piper was promised a reward if he would 
drive the rats and mice out of Hameln 
(Westphalia). This he did, for he 
gathered them together by his pipe, and 
then drowned them in the Weser. As 
the people refused to pay him, he next 
led the children to Koppelberg Hill, 
where 130 of them perished (July 22nd, 
1376). (See Hato.) 

“To blow the pipe his lips he wrinkled, 

And green and blue lis sharp eyes twinkled... 

And ere three notes his pipe had uttered... 

Out of the houses rats came tumbling— 

Great rats, small rats, lean rats, brawny rats, 

Brown rats, black rats, grey rats, tawny rats, 

And step by step they followed him dancing, 

Till they came to the river Weser.” 

Robert Browning. 

*} Hameln, on the river Hamel, is 
where the Rattenfanger played this 
prank. It is said that the children did 
not perish in the mountain, but were led 
over it to Transylvania, where they 
formed a German colony. 


Pierre. A conspirator in Otway’s 
Venice Preserved. He is described as a 
patriot of the bluntest manners, and a 
stoical heart. 

Uglier than Pierre du Coignet (French). 
Coignéres was an advocate-general in 
the reign of Philippe de Valois, who 
stoutly opposed the encroachments of 
the Church. The monks, in revenge, 
called, by way of pun, those grotesque 
monkey-like figures carved in stone, 


Quite 


used in church architecture, pierres du 
Coignet or pierres du Coigneéres. At 
Notre Dame de Paris they used to ex- 
tinguish their torches in the mouths and 
nostrils of these figures, which thus 
acquired a superadded ugliness. (See 
Recherches de Pasquier, iii. chap. xxvii.) 

“You may associate them with Master Peter du 
Coignet...in the middle of the porch... to 
perform the office of extinguishers, and with 
their noses put out the lighted candles, torches, 
tapers, and flambeaux.”’—Jtabelais. 

Pierrot [pe'er-i0]. A character in 
French pantomime representing a man 
in growth and a child in mind and 
manners. He is generally the tallest 
and thinnest man that can be got, has 
his face and hair covered with white 


| powder or flour, and wears a white 
| gown with very long sleeves, and a row 
| of big buttons down the front. 


The 
word means Little Peter. 


Piers. The shepherd who relates the 
fable of the Aid and her Dam, to show 
the danger of bad company. (Spenser: 
Shepherd’s Calendar.) 

Piers Plowman. ‘The hero of a 
satirical poem of the fourteenth century. 
He falls asleep, like John Bunyan, on 
the Malvern Hills, and has different 
visions, which he describes, and in which 
he exposes the corruptions of society, 
the dissoluteness of the clergy, and the 
allurements to sin, with considerable 
bitterness. The author is oe ae to 
be Robert or William Langland. 


Pieta’. A representation of the Virgin 
Mary embracing the dead body of her 
Son. Filial or parental love was called 
piety by the Romans. (See Prous.) 


Pi'etists. A sect of Lutherans in 
the seventeenth century, who sought to 
introduce a more moral life and a more 
ἐς evangelical” spirit of doctrine into the 
reformed church. In Germany the word 
Pietist is about equal to our vulgar use 
of Methodist. 

Pie'tro (2 syl.). The putative father 
of Pompil'ia, criminally assumed as his 
child to prevent certain property from 
passing to an heir not his own. (Robert 
Browning: The Ring and the Book, ii. 
580.) (See Rive.) 


Pig (Zhe) was held sacred by the 
ancient Cretans, because Jupiter was 
suckled by a sow ; it was immolated in 
the mysteries of Eleusis ; was sacrificed 
to Hercules, to Venus, the Lares (2 syl.), 
and all those who sought relief from 
bodily ailments. The sow was sacrificed 
to Ceres (2 syl.), ‘‘ because it taught men 

\ 


Pig 


9 


to turn up the earth;’’ and in Egypt it 
was slain on grand weddings on account 
of its fecundity. 


Pig. In the forefeet of pigs is a very 
small hole, which may be seen when the 
hair has been carefully removed. The 
tradition is that the legion of devils 
entered by these apertures. There are 
also round it some six rings, the whole 
together not larger than asmall spangle ; 
they look as if burnt or branded into the 
skin, and the tradition is that they are 
the marks of the devil’s claws when he 
entered the swine (Mark y. 11-15). 
(See CHRISTIAN TRADITIONS. ) 

Riding on apig. It was Jane, after- 
wards Duchess of Gordon, who, in 1770, 
undertook for a wager to ride down the 
High Street of Edinburgh, in broad day- 
light, on the back of a pig, and she won 
her bet. 

Some men there are love not a gaping 
pig (Merchant of Venice, iv. 1). Marshal 
d’ Albert always fainted at the sight of 
a roast sucking pig. (Sze ANTIPATHY, 
Cat.) 

The same is said of Vaugheim, the 
renowned Hanoverian huntsman. Keller 
used to faint at the sight of smoked 
bacon. 

Pig-back, Picka-back, or a- Pigger- 
back, does not mean as a pig is carried 
by a butcher, but as a piga or child is 
carried, It should be written apigga- 
back. 
downwards, with its legs over his 
shoulders ; but a child is carried with 
its arms round your neck, and legs 
under your arms. 

“She carries the other a pickapack upon her 
shoulders.” —L’ Estrange. 

Pig-eyes. Very small black eyes, 
like those of a pig. Southey says, 
‘““Those eyes have taught the lover 
flattery.’’ The ace of diamonds is called 
“ἃ pig’s eye.” 

Pig Hunt (4). A village sport, in 
which a certain number of persons 
blindfolded hunt a small pig confined by 
hurdles within a limited space. The 
winner, having caught the pig, tucks it 
under his arm, and keeps it as his prize. 

Pig-iron. This is a mere play upon 
the word sow. When iron is melted it 
runs off into a channel called a sow, the 
lat’eral branches of which are called the 
pigs ; here the iron cools, and is called 
pig-iron. 

Pig and Tinderbox. The Elephant 
and Castle. 

Pig and Whistle. 

€2 


The bowl and 


A butcher carries a pig head | 


i 


7 Pigskin 


wassail, or the wassail-cup and wassail. 
A piggen is a pail, especially a milk-pail ; 
and a pig isa small bowl, cup, or mug, 
making ‘‘ milk and wassail ;”’ similar to 
the modern sign of Jug and Glass— 
i.e. beer and wine. Thus a crockery- 
dealer is called a pig-wife. 


Pig in a Poke (4). A blind bar- 
gain. The French say Acheter chat en 
poche. The reference is to a common 
trick in days gone by of substituting a 
cat for a sucking-pig, and trying. to 
palm it off on greenhorns. If anyone 
heedlessly bought the article without 
examination he bought a ‘‘ cat’? for a 
‘“pig;’’? but if he opened the sack he 
“let the cat out of the bag,’’ aud the 
trick was disclosed. The French chat en 
poche refers to the fact, while our pro- 
verb regards the trick. Pocket is dimi- 
nutive of poke. 


Pigs. (See BartHoLoMEw PI1Gs.) 

He has brought his pigs to a pretty 
market. He has made a very bad bar- 
gain; he has managed his business in a 
very bad way. Pigs were the chief 
articles of sale with our Saxon herdsmen, 
and till recently the village cottager 
looked to pay his rent by the sale of his 


igs. 

“He follows me about like an Anthony 
pig, or such and such a one is a Tantony 
pig ; weaning a beggar, a hanger-on. 
Stow says that the officers of the market 
used to slit the ears of pigs unfit for 
food. One day one of the proctors of St. 
Anthony’s Hospital tied a bell about a 
pig whose ear was slit, and no one would 
ever hurt it. The pig would follow like 
a dog anyone who fed it. 

Please the pigs. Vf the Virgin permits. 
(Saxon, piga, a virgin.) In _ the 
Danish New Testament ‘‘maiden’’ is 
generally rendered pigen. ‘‘ Pig Cross,” 
dedicated to the Virgin Mary, is 


Virgin Cross, or the Lady Cross. So 
also ‘‘Pig’s Hill,”’? ‘‘ Pig’s Ditch,’’ in 


some instances at least, are the field and 
diggin’ attached to the Lady’s Chapel, 
though in others they are simply the hill 
and ditch where pigs were offered for sale. 
Another etymology is [ease the pixies 
(fairies), a saying still common in Deyon- 
shire. 

It is somewhat remarkable that pige 
should be Norse for maiden, and /iog or 
og Gaelic for young generally. Thus 
ogan (a young man), and goie (a young 
woman). 

Pigskin (4). A gentleman’s saddle, 
made of pigskin. ‘‘To throw a leg 
across a pigskin ’’ is to mount a horse. 


Pigtails 978 


Pigsney 


Pigtails (Zhe). The Chinese; so 
called because the Tartar tonsure and 
braided queue are very general. 

“We laid away telling one another of the pig- 


tiils till we both dropped off to sleep.”—Zules 
about the Chinese. 


Pigeon (70). To cheat, to gull one 
of his money by almost self-evident 
hoaxes. Pigeons are very easily gulled, 
caught by snares, or seared by malkins. 
One easily gulled is called a pigeon. The 
French pigeon means a dupe. 

“Je me deffieroy tantost qac tu serois un de 
ceux qui ne se laissent si facilement pigeonner ἃ 
telles gens."—Les Didloyues de Jucques Tahureau, 
(1585). 

Flying the pigeons. Stealing coals 
from a cart or sack between the coal- 
dealer’s yard and the house of the 
customer. 

Flying the blue pigeon. Stealing the 
lead from off the roofs of churches or 
buildings of any kind. 

To pigeon a person is to cheat him 
clandestinely. A gullible person is called 
a pigeon, and in the sporting world 
sharps and flats are called ‘‘rooks and 
pigeons.’’? The brigands of Spain used 
to be called palomos (pigeons) ; and in 
French argot a dupe is called pechon, or 
peschon deruby ; where pechon or peschon 
is the Italian piccione (a pigeon), and de 
ruby is a pun on dérobé, bamboozled. 

To pluck a pigeon. 'To cheata gullible 
person of his money. To fleece a green- 
horn. (See GREENHORN. ) 

“ “Here comes anice pigoon to pluck,’ said one of 
the thieves.”—C, Reade, 

Pigeon, Pigeons. Pitt says in 
Mecca no one will kill the blue pigeons, 
because they are held sacred. 

The black pigeons of Dodo'na. Two 
black pigeons, we are told, took their 
flight from Thebes, in Egypt; one flew 
to Libya, and the other to Dodo’na, in 
Greece. On the spot where the former 
alighted, the temple of Jupiter Ammon 
was erected ; in the place where the other 
settled, the oracle of Jupiter was estab- 
lished, and there the responses were made 
by the black pigeons that inhabited the 
surrounding groves. This fable is 
probably based on a pun upon the 
word peleiai, which usually means ‘‘old 
women,” but in the dialect of the Epi'rots 
signifies pigeons or doves. 

Mahomet’s pigeon. (See MAHOMET.) 


In Russia pigeons are not served for 
human food, because the Holy Ghost 
assumed the likeness of a dove at the 
baptism of Jesus; and part of the 
marriage service consists in letting loose 


two pigeons. (See Zhe Sporting Maga- 
zine, January, 1825, p. 307.) 

Pigeon lays only two eggs. THence the 
Queen says of Hamlet, after his fit he 
will be— 

“ As patient as the female dove 

When that her golden couplets are disclosed (i.e, 

hatched).” Hantlet, v.1. 

He who is sprinkled with pigeon’s blood 
will never die a natural death. Α sculp- 
tor carrying home a bust of Charles I. 
stopped to rest on the way; at the 
moment a pigeon overhead was struck 
by a hawk. and the blood of the bird fell 
on the neck of the bust. The sculptor 
thought it ominous, and after the king 
was beheaded the saying became 
current. 

Flocks of wild pigeons presage the pesti- 
lence, at leastin Louisia’na, Longfellow 
says they come with “naught in their 
craws but an acorn.” (Lvangeline.) 


Pigeon-English or Pigeon-talk. 


A corruption of dusiness-talk, Thus: 
business, bidginess, bidgin, pidgin, 
pigeon. A mixture of English, Portu- 


cuese, and Chinese, used in_ business 
transactions in “‘ The Flowery Empire.”’ 

“The traders care nothing for the Chinese lan- 
guage,and are content to carry on their business 
transactions ina hideous jargon called “ pigeon 
Enuglish.”—The Times. 

Pigeon-hole (4). A small compart- 
ment for filing papers. In pigeon- 
lockers a small hole is left for the 
pigeons to walk in and out. 


Pigeon-livered. Timid, _ easily 
frightened, like a pigeon. ‘The bile rules 
the temper, and the liver the bile. 


Pigeon Pair. A boy and gil, twins 
It was once supposed that pigeons always 
sit on two eggs which produce a, male 
and a female, and these twin birds live 
together in love the rest of their lives. 


Pigg. 
Piggy-wiggy or Piggy-whidden. 
A word of endearment ; a pet pig, which, 
being the smallest of the litter, is called 
by the diminutive Piggy, the τοῖν 
being merely alliterative. 
Pightel or Pigh’tle. 
of land enclosed with a hedge, 
eastern counties called a pi'Ale. 
“Neyer had that novelty in manure whitened 


(See under the word BREWER.) 


A small parcel 
In the 


the ... pightels of Court Farm.”—Miss Mitford: 
Our Village, Pp. 68. 
Pigmy. A dwarf. In fabulous his- 


tory the pigmies were a nation of dwarfs 
devoured by cranes. (See PYGMIES.) 


Pigsney or Pigsnie. A word of 


Pigwiggin 


endearment to a girl. (Diminutive of 
the Anglo-Saxon piga, a little girl.) 


Pigwiggin. An elf in love with 
Queen Mab. He combats the jealous 
O'beron with great fury. (Drayton: 
Nymphidia.) 


Pike’s Head (4). A pike’s head has 
all the parts of the crucifixion of Christ. 
There are the cross, three nails, and a 
sword distinctly recognisable. The Ger- 
man tradition is that when Christ was 
crucified all fishes dived under the waters 
in terror, except the pike, which, out of 
curiosity, lifted up its head and beheld 
the whole scene. (See Passion FLOWER.) 


Pikestaff. Plain as a _ pikestaff. 
Quite obvious and unmistakable. The 
pikestafi was the staff carried by pil- 
grims, which plainly and somewhat 
ostentatiously announced their ‘‘devo- 
tion.” It has been suggested that 
‘‘nikestaff’’? is a corruption of ‘‘ pack- 
staff,” meaning the staff on which a 
pedlar carries his pack, but there is no 
need for the change. 


Pilate Voice. A loud ranting voice. 
In the old mysteries all tyrants were 
made to speak in a rough ranting man- 
ner. Thus Bottom the Weaver, after a 
rant ‘*‘to show his quality,”’? exclaims, 
‘““That’s ’Ercles’ vein, a tyrant’s vein ;”’ 
and Hamlet describes a ranting actor as 
‘*out-heroding Herod.” 

“Tn Pilate voys he gan tu cry, 
Andswor by armés, and by blood and hones.” 
Chaucer: Canterbury Tules, 3126, 

Pilate’s Wife, who warned Pilate to 
have nothing to do with Jesus, is called 
Procla. (L. Johnson: The Mise of 
Christendom, p. 416.) 

Others call her Justitia, evidently an 
assumed name. 


Pila'tus (Jou?) in Switzerland. 
The similarity of the word with the name 
ot Pontius Pilate has given rise to the 
tradition that the Roman Governor, be- 
ing banished to Gaul by Tiberius, wan- 
dered to this mount and threw himself 
into a black lake on its summit. But 
Mont Pileatus means the ‘‘ hatted moun- 
tain,’ because it is frequently capped 
with clouds. 

* The story goes, that once a year 
Pilate appears in his robes of office, and 
whoever sees the ghost will die before 
the yearisout. In the sixteenth century 
a law was passed forbidding anyone to 
throw stones in the lake, for fear of 
bringing a tempest on the country. 


There is a town called Pilate in the island of 
Hispaniola, and a Mont Pilate in France. 


979 


Pillar to Post 


Pileh. The flannel napkin of an 
infant ; a buff or leather jerkin. (Anglo- 
Saxon pylce, a pilch.) 


Pilcher. A scabbard. (Anglo-Saxon, 
pylee ; Latin, pellis, skin.) 

“ Will you pluck your sword out of his pilcher ?” 
—Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet, iii. 1. 

Pilgarlic or Pilld Garlic (4). 
One whose hair has fallen off from 
dissipation. Stow says of one getting 
bald: ‘‘ He will soon be a peeled garlic 
like myself.’’ Generally a poor wretch 
avoided and forsaken by his fellows. 
The editor of Notes and Querics says 
that garlic was a prime specific for 
leprosy, so that garlic and leprosy be- 
came inseparably associated, As lepers 
had to pill their own garlic, they 
were nicknamed 1%/-garlics, and anyone 
shunned like a leper was so called like- 
wise. (To pill=to peel; see Gen. xxx. 
37.) 

** It must be borne in mind that at 
one time garlic was much more com- 
monly used in England than it is now. 

“ After this [feast] we jogged off to bed for the 
night ; but nevera bit could poor pilgarlic sleep 
one wink, for the everlasting jingle of bells.’— 
Rabelais : Pantagruel, v. 7. 

Pilgrim Fathers (Z/ic). The 102 
English, Scotch, and Dutch Puritans 
who, in December, 1620, went to North 
America in the ship called the Mayflower, 
and colonised Maine, New Hampshire, 
Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connec- 
ticut. 


Pil'grimage (3 syl.). The chief 
places in the West were (1) Walsingham 
and Canterbury (England); (2) Four- 
vitres, Puy, and St. Denis (France) ; (3) 
Rome, Loretto, Genetsano, and _ Assisi 
(Italy) ; (4) Compostella, Guadalupe, 
and Montserrat (Spain); (5) Oetting, 
Zell, Cologne, Trier, and LHinsiedeln 
(Germany). Chaucer has an admirable 
account, chiefly in verse, of a pilgrim- 
age to Becket’s tomb in Canterbury 
Cathedral. The pilgrims beguile the 
weariness of the way by telling tales. 
These Canterbury Tales were never com- 
pleted. 


Pillar Saints or S/yli'tés. A class 
of ascetics, chiefly of Syria, who took 
up their abode on the top of a pillar, 
from which they never descended. (See 
STYLITES. ) 


Pillar to Post. Running from pillar 
to post—from one thing to another with- 
out any definite purpose. This is an 
allusion to the manege. The pillar is 
the centre of the riding ground, and 
the posts are the columns at equal 


Pillars 


distances, placed two and two round 
the circumference of the ring. 


Pillars of Heaven (Zic). The 
Atlas Mountains are so called by the 
natives. 


Pillars of Hercules (Zie). The 
opposite rocks at the entrance of the 
Mediterranean Sea, one in Spain and 
the other on the African continent. The 
tale is that they were bound together till 
Hercules tore them asunder in order to 
get to Gadés (Cadiz). The ancients 
called them Calpé and Ab'yla; we call 
them Gibraltar Rock and Mount Hacho, 
on which stands the fortress of Ceu'ta 
(Ku’'tah). 


Pillory. The following eminent men 
have been put in the pillory for literary 
offences :—Leighton, for tracts against 
Charles I. ; Lilburn, for circulating the 
tracts of Dr. Bastwick ; Bastwick, for at- 
tacking the Church of England; Warton 
the publisher; Prynne, for a satire on 
the wife of Charles I.; Daniel Defoe, 
for a pamphlet entitled Zhe Shortest 
Way with Dissenters, ete. 


Pilot, according to Scaliger, is from 
an old French word, pile (a ship). 

Pilot Balloon (4). A _ political 
feeler; a hint thrown out to ascertain 
public opinion on some moot point. 

“As this gentleman is in the confidence of 
ministers, it 15 fair toassume that he was deputed 
to start this statementas a pilot balloon.”—Neuws- 
paper leader, 1883. 

Pilot Fish. So called because it is 
supposed to pilot the shark to its prey. 


Pilot that weathered the Storm 
(The). William Pitt, son of the first 
Earl of Chatham. George Canning, in 
1802, wrote a song so called in com- 
pliment to William Pitt, who steered us 
safely through the European storm 
stirred up by Napoleon. 


Pilpay’ or Bidpay. The Indian 
ZEsop. His compilation was in Sanskrit, 
and entitled Pantcha-Tantra. Khosru 
(Chosroes) the Great, of Persia, ordered 
them to be translated into Pehlvi, an 
idiom of Medish, at that time the lan- 
guage of Persia. This was in the middle 
of the sixth century. 


Pim’lico (London). At one time a 
district of public gardens much fre- 
quented on holidays. According to 
tradition, it received its name from Ben 
Pimlico, famous for his nut-brown ale, 
His tea-gardens, however, were near 
Hoxton, and the road to them was 
termed Pimlico Path, so that what is 


980 Pin 


now called Pimlico was so named from 
the popularity of the Hoxton resort. 

“Have at thee, then, my merrie hoyes, and heg 
for old Ben Pimlico's nut-brown ale.” — Newes 
Srom Hogsdon (1598). 

Pimlico. Zo walk in Pimlico. To 

promenade, handsomely dressed, along 
Pimlico Path. 


“Not far from this place were the Asparagus 
Gardens and Pimlico Path, where were fine walks, 
cool arbours, etc., much used by the citizens of 


London and their families.”—Nuat. Hist. Surrey. \. 

Pin (4). 
of ale or beer. 
the casks, Two pins 
gallons, and 2 firkins 
18 gallons, 


Pin. Not worth a pin. Wholly worth- 
less. 

I don't care a pir, or a pin’s point. In 
the least. 

The pin. The centre; as, ‘‘ the pin of 
the heart’? (Shakespeare: Romeo and 
Juliet, ti. 4). The allusion is to the pin 
which fastened the clout or white mark 
on a target in archery. 

Weak on his pins. Weak in his legs, 
the legs being a man’s pegs or sup- 
porters. 

A merry pin. A roysterer. 

We are told that St. Dunstan intro- 
duced the plan of pegging tankards, to 
check the intemperate habits of the 
English in his time. Called ‘‘ pin-tan- 
kards,”’ 

In merry pin. In merry mood, in 
good spirits. Pegge, in his Anonymiana, 
says that the old tankards were divided 
into eight equal parts, and each part was 
marked with a silver pin. The cups held 
two quarts, consequently the quantity 
from pin to pin was half a Winchester 
pint. By the rules of “good fellowship ”’ 
a drinker was supposed to stop drinking 
only at a pin, and if he drank beyond it, 
was to drink to the next one. As it was 
very hard to stop exactly at the pin, the 
vain efforts gave rise to much mirth, and 
the drinker had generally to drain the 
tankard, (Sce PEG.) 

“No song, no laugh, no jovial din 

Of drinking wassail to the pin.” 
Longfellow: Golden Legend. 

I do not pin my faith upon your sleare. 
Iam not going to take your ipse dizit 
for gospel. In feudal times badges were 
worn, and the partisans of a leader used 
to wear his badge, which was pinned on 
the sleeve. Sometimes these badges 
were changed for specific purpcses, and 
persons learned to doubt. Hence the 
phrase, ‘‘ You wear the badge, but I do 


A cask holding 41 gallons 
This is the smallest of 
a firkin or 9 
a kilderkin or 


Pin Money 


not intend to pin my faith on your 
sleeve.”’ 

He tirled at the pin, Rattled at the 
latch to give notice that he was about to 
enter. The pin was not only the latch 
of chamber-doors and cottages, but the 
“‘rasp’’ of castles used instead of the 
modern knocker. It was attached to a 
ring, which produced a grating sound to 
give notice to the warder. 

ΚΕ Sae licht he jumpéd up the stair, 
And tirléd at the pin ; 
And wha sae ready as hersel’ 
To let the laddie in.” 3 
Charlie is my Darling. 

Pin Money. A lady’s allowance of 
money for her own personal expenditure, 
Long after the invention of pins, in the 
fourteenth century, the maker was al- 
lowed to sell them in open shop only on 
January Ist and 2nd. It was then that 
the court ladies and city dames flocked 
to the depéts to buy them, having been 
first provided with money by their hus- 
bands, When pins became cheap and 
common, the ladies spent their allow- 
ances on other fancies, but the term pin 
money remained in vogue. 

It is quite an error to suppose that 
pins were invented in the reign of 
Francois I., and introduced into England 
by Catherine Howard, the fifth wife of 
Henry VIII. In 1347, just 200 years 
before the death of Francois, 12,000 pins 
were delivered from the royal wardrobe 
for the use of the Princess Joan, and 
in 1400 (more than a century before 
Francois ascended the throne) the 
Duchess of Orleans purchased of Jehan 
le Breconnier, espinglicr, of Paris, sev- 
eral thousand long and short pins, besides 
500 de la fagon εἰ Angleterre. So that pins 
were not only manufactured in England, 
but were of High repute even inthe reign 
of Henry IV. of England (1399-1413). 


Pinabel'lo or Pin’abel (in Orlando 
Furioso). Son of Anselmo, King of 
Maganza. Marphi’sa, having over- 
thrown him, and taken the steed of his 
dame, Pinabello, at her instigation, de- 
creed that nothing would wipe out the 
disgrace except a thousand dames and a 
thousand warriors unhorsed, and spoiled 
of their arms, steed, and vest. He was 
slain by Brad’amant. 


Pinch’beck. So called from Chris- 
topher Pinchbeck, a  musical-clock 
maker, of Fleet Street. (Died 1732.) The 
word is used for Brummagem gold; and 
the metal is a compound of copper, zinc, 
and tin. 


“Where, in these pinchbeck days, can we hope 
to find the old agricultural virtue in all its 
purity ?"—Anthony Trollope: Framley Parsonage. 


981 


Pink of Perfection 


Jean 
Also Ponce Denis 


Pindar. The French Pindar. 
Dorat (1507-1588). 
Lebrun (1729-1807). 

The Italian Pindar. Gabriello Chia- 
brera ; whence Chiabreresco is in Italian 


tantamount to ‘‘ Pindaric.’”’ (1552- 
1637.) 
Peter Findar. Dr. John Wolcott 


(1738-1812). 

Pindar of England. George, Duke of 
Buckingham, most extravagantly de- 
clared Cowley to be the Pindar, Horace, 
and Virgil of England. 

In Westminster Abbey, the last line 
of Gray’s tablet claims the honour of 
British Pindar for the author of The 
Bard. 

“She [Britain] felt a Homer's fire in Milton’s 


strains, ν᾽ A 
A Pindar’s rapture in the lyre of Gray.” 


Pindar and the Bees. (Se PLATO.) 


Pindar of Wakefield ((/corge-a- 
Green) has given his name to a celebrated 
house on the west side of the Gray’s Inn 
Road ; and a house with that name stilt 
exists in St. Chad’s Row, on the other 
side of the street. (Zhe Times.) (See 
PINDER.) 

Pindaric Verse. Irregular verse ; 
a poem of various metres, but of lofty 
style, in imitation of the odes of Pindar. 
Alexander's Feast, by Dryden, is the 
best specimen in English, 


Pinder. One who impounds cattle, 
or takes care of the cattle impounded ; 
thus George-a-Green was the ‘‘ Pinder 
of Wakefield,’ and his encounter with 
Robin Hood, Scarlet, and Little John 
forms the subject of one of the Robin 
Hood ballads. (Anglo-Saxon pwnd, a 
fold.) 


Pindo’rus (in Jerusalem Delivered). 
One of the two heralds; the other is 
Arideus. 


Pine-bender (7/c). Sinis, the Cor- 
inthian robber; so called because he 
used to fasten his victims to two pine- 
trees bent towards the earth, and then 
leave them to be rent asunder by the 
rebound. 


Pink (4). The flower is so called 
because the edges of the petals are pinked 
or notched. (See below.) 


Pink of Perfection (716). The 
acmé ; the beau-ideal. Shakespeare has 
‘‘the pink of courtsey”’ (Romeo and Juliet, 
ii. 4); the pink of politeness. (Welsh, 
pwne, a point, an acmé; our pink, to 
stab ; pinking, cutting into points.) 


Piony 


82 


Pireus 


Pi/ony or Peony. A flower; so 
called from the chieftain Paion, who 
discovered it. (Saxon Leechdoms, 1.) 


Piou-pieu. An infantry soldier, 
This is probably a corruption of pion, a 
pawn or foot-soldier. Cotgrave, how- 
ever, thinks the French foot-soldiers are 
so called from their habit of pilfering 
chickens, whose ery is piow piow, 

Pi'ous (2 syl.). The Romans called a 
man who revered his father pivs ; hence 
Antoni’nus was called μένα, because he 
requested that his adopted father (Ha- 
drian) might be ranked among the gods. 
JEne’as was called pius because he res- 
cued his father from the burning city of 
Troy. The Italian word pieta (q.v.) has 
a similar meaning. 

The Pious. Yrnst I., founder of the 
House of Gotha. (1601-1674.) 

Robert, son of Hugues Capet. (971, 
996-1031.) 

Eric IX. of Sweden. (*, 1155-1161.) 

Pip. The hero of Dickens’s (Great 
Expectations. He is first a poor boy, 
and then a man of wealth. 


Pipe. 
flute. 

Put that into your pipe and smoke it, 
Digest that, if you can. An expression 
used by one who has given an adversary 
a severe rebuke. ‘The allusion is to the 
pipes of peace and war smoked by the 
American Indians. ; 

Put your pipe out. Spoil your piping 
or singing ; make you sing another tune, 
or in another key. ‘‘ Take your shine 
out ” has a similar force. 

As you pipe, I must dance. I must 
accommodate myself to your wishes. 

To pipe your eye. To snivel; to cry. 


Pipe Rolls or Great Rolls of the Pipe. 
The series of Great Rolls of the Ex- 
chequer, beginning 2 Henry II., and 
continued to 1834, when the Pipe Office 
was abolished. These rolls are now in 
the Public Record Office, Chancery Lane. 


“Take, for instance the Pipe Rolls, that magni- 
ficent series of documents on which, from the 
middle of the 12th century until well on in the 
1911), we have a perfect account of the Crown 
revenue, rendered by the sheriffs of the different 
counties.”—Notes and Queries, June 3, 1893, p. 421. 


Office of the Clerk of the Pipe. A very 
ancient office in the Court of Exchequer, 
where leases of Crown lands, sheriffs’ 
accounts, ete,, were made out. It existed 
in the reign of Henry II., and was 
abolished in the reign of William IV. 
Lord Bacon says, ‘‘ The office is so called 
because the whole receipt of the court is 
finally conveyed into it by means of 


Anglo-Saxon pip, a pipe or 


divers small pipes or quills, cs water into 
a cistern, 


Pipe of Peace. The North Ameri- 
can Indians present a pipe to anyone 
they wish to be on good terms with. To 
receive the pipe and smoke together is 
to promote friendship aud goodwill, but 
to refuse the offer is virtually a declara- 
tion of hostility. 

Pipeclay. Routine; fossilised mili- 
tary dogmas of no real worth. In govern- 
ment offices the term 7¢d-tape is used to 
express the same idea. Pipeclay was at 
one time largely used by soldiers for 
making their gloves, accoutrements, and 
clothes look clean and smart. 


Pipelet. A concierge or French 
door-porter; so called from a character 
in Eugéne Sue’s Mysteries of Paris. 


Piper. Zhe Picd Piper. (See Prep.) 

Who's to pay the piper? (See Pay.) 

Tom Piper. So the piper is called in 
the morris dance, 

‘ There is apparently another Tom 
Piper, referred to by Drayton and others, 
of whom nothing is now known. He 
seems to have been a sort of Mother 
Goose, or raconteur of short tales. 

“Tom Piper is gone out, and mirth bewailes, 

He never will come in to tell us tales.” 

Piper that Played before Moses 
(By the). Per tibicinem qui coram Mose 
modulatus est, This oath is from Tules 
in Blackwood | Magazine, May, 1838]: 
Father Tom and the Pope (name of the 
tale). (Noles ana Queries, Apri! 2, 1887, 
p. 276.) 

'Piper’s News or Hawkers News, 
Fiddler’s News. News known to all the 
world, ‘* Le secret de polichinelle.” 

Piping Hot. Hot as water which 
pipes or sings. 

Pippa Passes. A little leaven 
leaveneth the whole lump. Some casual 
influence has dropped good seed, which 
has taken root and beareth fruit to per- 
fection. The words are the title of a 
dramatic poem by Robert Browning. 
Pippa is a chaste-minded, light-hearted 
peasant maiden, who resolves to enjoy 
New Year’s Day, her only holiday. 
Various groups of persons overhear her 
as she passes-by singing her innocent 
ditties, and some of her stray words, 
falling into their hearts, act with secret 
but sure influence for good. (1842.) 


Pire‘us. Now called the port 
Leo’né. 


Pirie’s Chair 983 


Pirie’s Chair. ‘‘ The lowest seat 0’ 
hell.”’? ‘‘ If you do not mend your ways, 
you will be sent to Pirie’s chair, the 
lowest seat of hell.”’ 

“ Τὴ Pirie’s chair you'll sit, I say, 
The lowest seat οὐ hell ; 
Tf ye do not amend your ways, 
It's there that ye must dwell.” 
Child's Enulish and Scottish Ballads : 
The Courteous Knight. 


*~ Pirrie or pyrrie means a sudden 
storm at sea (Scotch pirr). ‘‘ They were 
driven back by storme of winde and 
pyrries of the sea.” (North: Plutarch, 
p- 399.) 

Pirith’oos. King of the Lapithe, 
proverbial for his love of Theseus (2 syl.), 
King of Athens, 

Pis-aller (French). As a shift; for 
want of a better; a dernier ressort ; 
better than nothing. 


“She contented herself with a pis-aller, and 
gave her hand...in six months to the son of 
the haronet’s steward.”—Sir W. Scott: Waverley, 
chap. v. 


Pisa’nio. A servant noted for his 
attachment to Im’ogen. (Shakespeare: 
Cymbeline.) 


Piso’s Justice. That is Piso’s jus- 
tice. Verbally right, but morally wrong. 
Seneca tells us that Piso condemned a 
man on circumstantial evidence for mur- 
der; but when the suspect was at the 
place of execution, the man supposed to 
have been murdered exclaimed, ‘‘ Hold, 
hold! I am the man supposed to have 
been killed.’? The centurion sent back 
the prisoner to Piso, and explained the 
case to him ; whereupon Piso condemned 
all three to death, saying, ‘‘Jat justitia.”’ 
The man condemned is to be executed 
because sentence of death has been passed 
upon him, and fiat justitia ; the ceuturion 
is to be executed because he has disobeyed 
orders, and fiat justitia ; the man sup- 
posed to have been murdered is to be 
executed because he has been the cause 
ef death to two innocent men, and fiat 
Justitia etsi cel ruat. 

Pistol. Falstaff’s lieutenant or an- 
cient; a bully, but a coward, a rogue, 
and always poor. (Shakespeare : 1 and 
2 Henry IV. ; Merry Wives of Windsor.) 

Pis'tols. So called from Pistoja, in 
Tuscany, where they were invented in 
1545, (Latin, pistorium.) 

To discharge one’s pistol in the air. 
To fight a man of straw ; to fight harm- 
lessly in order to make up a foolish 
quarrel, 


“Dr. Réville has discharged his pistol in the 
air [that is, he pretends to fight against me, but 
discharges his shot against objections which I 
never made]."—W. 1. Gladstone: Nineteenth Cen- 
tary, November, 1885, 


Pitri 


Pistris, Pistrix, Pristis, or Pris- 
trix. The sea-monster sent to devour 
Androm’eda. In ancient art it is re- 
presented with a dragon's head, the neck 
and head of a beast, fins for the fore- 
legs, and the body and tail of a fish. 
In Christian art the pistris was usually 
employed to represent the whale which 
swallowed Jonah. (Aratus : Comment- 
aries.) Aratus died a.p. 213. 


Pit-a-pat. J/y heart goes pit-a-pat. 
Throbs, palpitates. ‘‘Pat’’ is a gentle 
blow (Welsh, fat), and ‘* pit’ is a mere 
ricochet expletive. We have a vast 
number of such ricochet words, as 
‘* fiddle - faddle,”? ‘‘ harum - scarum,”’ 
“* ding-dong,”’ etc. 

“ Anything like the sound ofa rat 
Makes my heart go pit-a-pat.”” 
Browning ; Pied Pi er of Hamelin. 

Pitch. Touch pitch, and you will be 
defiled, ‘* The finger that touches rouge 
will be red.’? ‘‘ Evil communications 
corrupt good manners.’ ‘‘A rotten 
apple injures its companions.”’ 


Pitch and Pay. Pitch down your 
money and pay at once. ‘There is a 
suppressed pun in the phrase: ‘‘ to pay 
a ship ”’ is to pitch it. 

“The word is pitch and pay—trust none.” 

Shakespeare: Henry V., ii. 3. 

Pitch into Him. Thrust or dart 

your fists into him. 


Pitcher. The pitcher went once too 
often to the well. The dodge was tried 
once too often, and utterly tailed. The 
same sentiment is proverbial in most 
European languages. 


Pitch’ers. Little pitchers have long 
ears. Little folk or children hear what 
is said when you little think it. The 
ear of a pitcher is the handle, made in 
the shape of a man’s ear. The handle 
of a cream-ewer and of other small jugs 
is quite out of proportion to the size of 
the vessel, compared with the handles of 
large jars. 

Pithos. A large jar to keep wine or 
oil in. Winckelmann has engraved a 
copy of a curious bas-relief representing 
Diogénés occupying a pithos and holding 
conversation with Alexander the Great. 
(Greek pithos, a large wine jar.) 


Piri (plur. Prraras). An order of 
divine beings in Hindu mythology in- 
habiting celestial regions of their own, 
and receiving into their society the 
spirits of those mortals whose funeral 
rites have been duly performed, 


Pitt Diamond 


984 


Pianets 


Pitt Diamond or Zhe Regent. Called 
Pitt diamond because it once belonged 
to Mr. Pitt, grandfather of the famous 
Earl of Chatham, Called the Regent 
diamond from the Duke of Orleans, Re- 
gent of France, who purchased it. This 
famous diamond was worn in the sword- 
hilt of Napoleon, and now belongs to 
the King of Prussia. 

Pitt's Mark. The printer’s name 
and place of business affixed to printed 
books, according to William Pitt's Act, 
39 Geo. III., c. 79. 


Pitt’s Pictures or Billy Pitt’s Pic- 
tures. Blind windows: so called because 


many windows were blocked up when | 


William Pitt augmented the Window 
Tax in 1784, and again in 1797. 


Pit'tacus (Greek, Pittakos). One of 
the ‘‘Seven Sages’’ of Greece. His 
great sayings were: (1) ‘* Know the 
right time’? (‘‘ Gno'thi kairon’’), and 
(2) ‘*’Tis a sore thing to be eminent ”’ 
(‘* Chalepon esthlon emmenai’’). 


Pit’tance. 


over and above bread and wine. An- 


thony du Pinet, in his translation of | 


Pliny, applies the term over and over 
again to figs and beans. The word 
originally comes from the people’s piety 
in giving to poor mendicants food for 
their subsistence. (Probably connected 
with pietas. Monkish Latin, pictancia ; 
Spanish, pitar, to distribute a dole of 
food ; pitancero, one who distributes the 
dole, or a begging friar who subsists by 
charity.) 

Pixies (2 syl.). The Devonshire 
Robin Goodfellows; said to be the 
spirits of infants who have died before 
baptism. The Pixy monarch holds his 
court like Titania, and sends his subjects 
on their several tasks. The word is a 
diminutive of Pix, probably the same as 
Puck. (Swedish, pyke; old English, 
pouk, bug, bogie; Danish, pog and pokker-.) 

“ Ne let the pouke nor other evil sprites . ον 

Fray us with things that be not.” 

Spenser: Epithalamion. 

Pixy-led (Devonshire), Poake- 
ledden (Worcestershire). Misled into 
bogs and ditches. 


Place aux Dames. Make way for 
the ladies; give place to the ladies; the 
ladies first, if you please. Indirectly it 
means women beat the men hollow in 
every contest, 


Place’bo. One of the brothers of 
January, an old baron of Lombardy. 
When J anuary held a family coyncil to 


An allowance of victuals | 


| the same title. 


know whether he should marry, Placebo 
very wisely told him to do as he liked, 
for says he— 
“ A ful gret fool is eny counselour/ 
That servith any lord of high honour’ 
That dar presume, or oonés [once] thenken it. 
That his counseil’ schuld pass his lordeés wit.” 
Chaucer: The Marchaundes Tale, line 9,121, ete. 
To sing Placébo. To seek to please ; to 
trim in order not to offend. The word 
Placébo is often used to denote vespers 
for the dead, from the fact that it is the 
first word of the first Antiphon of that 
Office. 


Pla’giarist means strictly one who 
kidnaps a slave. Martial applies the 
word to the kidnappers of other men’s 
brains. Literary theft unacknowledged 
is called plagiarism. (Latin, plagia'rius.) 

Plain (7ic). The Girondists were so 
called in the National Convention, be- 
cause they sat on the level floor or plain 
of the hall. After the overthrow of the 
Girondists this part of the House was 
called the marsh or swamp (arais), and 
included such members as were under 
the control of the Mountain (9.”.). 


Plain Dealer (716). Wycherly was 
so called, from his celebrated comedy of 
(1640-1715.) 

“The Countess of Drogheda inquired for the 
Plain Dealer. ‘Madame,’ says Mr. Fairbeard, 
‘since you are for the “ Plain Dealer,” there he is 
for you, pushing Mr. Wycbherly towards her.”"— 
Cibber : Lives of the Poets, tii. }ν. 252. 

Plan of Campaign (716). Often 
cited shortly as ‘‘The Plan,’ promul- 
gated by John Dillon in October, 1886, 
It provided that Irish tenants on an 
estate should band together, and deter- 
mine what abatement of rent they con- 
sidered to be called for. If the landlord 
accepted the abatement, well and good ; 
if not, the tenants were to pay into a 
campaign fund the amount offered to 
the landlord, and the money thus funded 
should be used in fighting the landlord 
if he went to law to recover his rents. 

“The Plan of Campaign proposed to reduce 
rents by an average of some 30 per cent.”"—Nine- 
teenth Century, April, 1894, p. 566. 

* In 1885 the Land Commission re- 
duced all the rents from 10 to 14 per 
cent. ; so that 30 per cent. more would 
equal from 40 to 42 per cent. 


Planets. 
i. In astrology there are seven 
planets :— 


APOLLO, the sun, represents gold. 
DIANA, the moon, represents silver, 
MrERcuRY represents quicksilver, 
VENUS represents copper. 

MARS represents iron, 

JUPITER represents tin. 

SATURN represents lead, 


Planet-struck 


98 


5 Platform 


ii. In heraldry the arms of royal per- 
sonages used to be blazoned by the names 
of planets, and those of noblemen by 
precious stones, instead of the correspond- 
ing colours. 

So1r—topaz—or (gold)—hezants. 

LuNA—pearl—argent (silver)—plates. 

SATURN—diamond—sable (black)—pellets. 

MArs—ruby—gules (ved)—torteaux. 

JUPLTER—Ssapphire—azure (blue)—hurts. 

VENUS—emerald—vert (green)—pommes, 

MEnrcURY—aimethyst—purpure (violet)—golpes. 

Inferior planets. Mercury and Venus ; 
so called because their orbits are within 
the orbit of the earth. 

Superior planets. Mars, the Planet- 
oids, Jupiter, Saturn, U’ranus, and Nep- 
tune; so called because their orbits are 
outside the earth’s orbit—i.e. farther 
from the sun. 

iii. Planets represented by symbols. 

Mercury, $; VENus, 2 ; EARTH, @ ; Mars, ὦ 5 
the PLANETOIDS, in the order of discovery— 


(Ὁ, @), @, ete. ; Juprrer, I! ; Saruny, h; URa- 
Nus, Hf ; NEPTUNE, ¥ ; the SUN, ἐξ ; the Moov, ). 

iv. The planets in Greece were sym- 
bolised by seven letters: 

JUPITER, v (u-psilon) ; MARS, o (0-micron); MER- 
CURY, € (e-psilon) ; THE MOON, a (alpha); SAT- 
URN, ὦ (o-mega) ; THE SUN, ε (iota): VENUS, ἢ 
(eta). 

To be born under a lucky [or unlucky] 
planet. According to astrology, some 
planet, at the birth of every individual, 
presides over his destiny. Some of the 
planets, like Jupiter, are lucky; and 
others, like Saturn, are unlucky. In 
casting a horoscope the heavens must be 
divided into twelve parts or houses, 
called (1) the House of Life; (2) the 
House of Fortune; (3) the House of 
Brethren; (4) the House of Relations; 
(5) the House of Children; (6) the 
House of Health; (7) the House of Mar- 
riage; (8) the House of Death; (9) the 
House of Religion; (10) the House of 
Dignities; (11) the House of Friends 
and Benefactors; (12) the House of 
Enemies. Each house had one of the 
heavenly bodies as its lord, (See Svar 
IN THE ASCENDANT.) 


Planet-struck. A blighted tree is 
said to be planet-struck. Epilepsy, 
paralysis, lunacy, etc., are attributed to 
the malignant aspects of the planets. 
Horses are said to be planet-struck when 
they seem stupefied, whether from want 
of food, colic, or stoppage. The Latin 
word is sideratus, 

_ “Evidentissimum id fuit, quod quacunque equo 
invectus est, ibi haud secus quam pestifero sidére 
icti payvévant.”—Livry, viii. 9. 

Plank (4). Any one principle of a 

political platform, (See PLATFORM.) 


Plank. 170 wail: the plank. To be 
about to die. Walking the plank wasa 
mode of disposing of prisoners at sea, 
much in vogue among the South Sea 
pirates in the 17th century. 


Plantagenet, from planta genista 
(broom-plant), the family cognisance 
first assumed by the Earl of Anjou, the 
first of his race, during a pilgrimage to 
the Holy Land, as a symbol of humility. 
(Sir George Buck: Richard III.) Died 
1622. 


_ Plaster of Paris. Gypsum, found 
in large quantities in the quarries of 
Montmartre, near Paris. 


Plate (4). A race in which a prize is 
given out of the race fund, or from some 
other source, without any stakes being 
made by the owners of the horses en- 
gaged. Usually entrance money is re- 
quired. (See SWEEPSTAKES, HANDICAP, 
PuLaTE, SELLING RacE, WEIGHT-FOR-AGE 
RACE.) 

“ Plate, meaning silver, is the Spanish 
plata. 


Piat’en, among printers, is the power 
or weight which presses on the tympan 
(q.v.), to cause the impression of the 
letters to be given off and transferred to 
the sheet. (French, plat, flat.) 

In type-writing machines, the 
platen is the feeding roller on which the 
paper rests to receive the proper im- 
pressions. 


Plates or Plates of Meat. Slang 
for feet. One of the chief sources of 
slang isrhyme. Thus wcat rhymes with 
feet, and ‘‘ warming my plates”’ is slang 
for warming my feet. Similarly, ‘‘ Rory 
O’ More ”’ is slang for door, and ‘‘ there 
came a knock at the Rory O’More”’ 
means there was a knock at the door. 
A prescott is slang for waistcoat. (See 
CHIVvY.) 


Platform, in the United States, is the 
policy of a political or religious party. 
Of course the meaning is the policy on 
which the party stands. An American 
revival. Each separate principle is a 
plank of the platform. 

Queen Elizabeth, in answer to the Supplication 
of the Puritans (offered to the Parliament in 
1506). said she “had examined the platform, and 
account it most prejudicial to the religion estab- 
lished, to her crown, her government, and her 
subjects.” eb Ν Z 

Again, the Rey. John Norris writes, in 1687, that 
Plato said, “God created τῶν ovtwy μέτρα. imply- 
ing that all things were formed according to His 
special platforms, meaning the ideas formed in 
the divine mind.” 


The word has been resuscitated in 
North America. Lily, in 1581, says he 


εῷ 
o 


Plato 


Pleasure 


“discovered the whole platform of the 
conspiracie.”? (Discovery of the New 
World, p. 115.) 

“Their declaration of principles—their ‘plat- 
form, to use the appropriate term—was settled 
and published to the world. Its distinctive ele- 
ments, or ‘ planks,’ are financial.”—The Vimes. 

Plato. His original name was Aris’ - 
toclés, but he was called Platon from the 
great breadth of his shoulders. 

The German Plato. Friedrich Hein- 
rich Jacobi (1743-1819). 

The Jewish Plato, Philo Judzeus, an 
Alexandrine philosopher. (Flourished 
20-40.) 

The Puritan Plato. John Howe, the 
Nonconformist (1630-1706), 


Plato and the Bees. When Plato 
was an infant, some bees settled on his 
lips when he was asleep, indicating that 
he would become famous for his honey ed 
words. The same is said of Sophoclés, 
Pindar, St. Ambrose, St. Chrysostom, 
and others. 

“Andas when Plato did i’ the cradle thrive, 
Bees to any lips broug ht honey from their hive.’ 
. Browne: Britunnia’s Pustorals, ii. 
Plato's Year. <A revolution of 
25,000 years, in which period the stars 
and constellations return to their former 
places in respect to the equinoxes. 
“Cut out more work than can be done 
In Plato's year, but finish none. 
Butler: Hudibras, pt. iii. 1. 

Platonic Bodies. The five regular 
geometric solids described by Plato— 
viz. the tetrahedron, hexahedron, octa- 
hedron, dodecahedron, and icosahedron, 
all of which are bounded by like, equal, 
and regular planes, 


Platonic Love. Spiritual love be- 
tween persons of opposite sexes. It is 
the friendship of man and woman, with- 
out mixture of what is usually called 
love. Plato strongly advocated this pure 
affection, and hence its distinctive name. 


Platonic Puritan (16). John 
Howe, the Noncontormist divine. (1630- 
1706.) 

Platonism. The philosophical sys- 

tem of Plato; dialectics. Locke main- 
tains that the mind is by nature a sheet 
of white paper, the five senses being the 
doors of knowledge. Plato maintained 
the opposite theory, drawing a strong 
line of demarcation between the province 
of thought and that of sensations in the 
production of ideas. (See DIALEcTICcs.) 

It is characterised by the doctrine of pre-exist- 
ing eternal ideas, and teaches the immortality and 
pre-existence of the soul, the dependence of yvir- 


tue upon discipline, and the trustworthiness of 
cognition, 


In theology, he taught that there are 
two eternal, primary, independent, and 
incorruptible causes of material things 
—(Cod the maker, and matter the sub- 
stance. 

In psychology, he maintained the ulti- 

mate unity and mutual dependence of 
all knowledge. 

In physics, he said that God is the 
measure cf all things, and that from 
God, in whom reason and being are one, 
proceed human reason and those ‘‘ideas’’ 
or laws which constitute all that can be 
called veal in nature. 


Platter with Two Eyes (4). Em- 
blematical of St. Lucy, in allusion to her 
sending her two eyes toa nobleman who 

wanted to marry her for the exceeding 
beauty of her eyes. (See Lucy.) 


Play. ‘‘This may be play to you, 
’tis death to us,’? The allusion is to the 
fable of the boys throwing stones at some 
frogs. (Roger L’ Estrange.) 

As good as a play. So said King 
Charles when he attended the discussion 
of Lord Ross’s ‘* Divorce Bill.”’ 


Play the Deuce. The Irish say, 
Play the pooka. Pooka or Pouke is an 
evil spirit in the form of a wild colt, who 
does great hurt to benighted travellers. 


Played Out. Outof date ; no longer 
in vogue ; exhausted. 


“Valentines, I suppose, are played out, said 


Milton.”—Vruth: Queer Story, Fel. 18, 1386. 

Playing to the Gods. Degrading 
one’s vocation ad captandum vulqus. 
The gods, in theatrical phrase, are the 
spectators in the uppermost gallery, the 
ignobile vulgus. The ceiling of Drury 
Lane theatre was at one time painted 
in imitation of the sky, with Cupids and 
other deities here and there represented. 
As the gallery referred to was near the 
ceiling, the occupants were called the 
gods. In French this gallery is nick- 
named paradis, 


Please the Pigs. (See under Pics.) 


Pleased as Punch. Greatly de- 
lighted. Our old friend Punch 15 
always singing with self-satisfaction in 
all his naughty ways, and his evident 
‘“‘nleasure’’ is contagious to the be- 
holders. 

“You could skip over to Europe whenever you 


liked ; mamma would be pleased as Punch.”"—2. 
Grant, 
Pleasure. It was Xerxes who offered 


a reward to anyone who could invent a 
new pleasure. 


Plebeians 


987 


Pliny’s Dove 


~ Plebeians. Common people; pro- 
perly it means the free citizens of Rome, 
who were neither patricians nor clients. 
They were, however, free landowners, 
and had their own ‘‘ gentés.’’ (Latin, 
plebes, 2 501.) 

Pleb’iscite (3 syl.). A decree of 
the people. In Roman hfstory, a law 
enacted by the ‘‘comitia’’ or assembly 
of tribes. In France, the resolutions 
adopted in the Revolution by the voice of 
the people, and the general votes given 
during the Second Empire—such as the 
general vote to elect Napoleon III. 
emperor of the French, 

Pledge. J pledge you in this wine— 
i.e. I drink to your health or success. 

“ Drink to me only with thine eyes, 
And I will pledge with mine.” 
Ben Jonson (translated from Philostratus) 
second century. 

To pledge. To guarantee. Pledging 
a drinker’s security arose in the tenth 
century, when it was thought necessary 
for one person to watch over the safety 
of a companion while in the act of 
drinking. It was by no means unusual 
with the fierce Danes to stab a person 


under such circumstances. 
ΤΟΥ 
Were a huge man, I should fear to drink at meals, 
Lest they should spy my windpipe’s dangerous 
notes. 
Great men should drink with barness on their 
throats.” Timon of Athens, 1. 2. 


Plei’ades (3 syl.) means the ‘sailing 
stars’’ (Greek, p’éo, to sail), because the 
Greeks considered navigation safe at the 
return of the Pleiadés, and never at- 
tempted it after those stars disappeared. 

The PLEIADES were the seven daugh- 
ters of Atlas and Pléioné (Πληζονη). 
They were transformed into stars, one 
of which (Merépé) is invisible out of 
shame, because she alone married a 
human being. Some call the invisible 
star ‘‘ Electra,’’ and say she hides her- 
self from grief for the destruction of the 
city and royal race of Troy. 

i, The Pleiad of Alexandria. <A 
group of seven contemporary poets in 
the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphos; so 
called in reference to the cluster of 
stars in the back of Taurus. Their 
names are—Callim’achos, Apollo’nios of 
Rhodes, Ara’tos, Philiscos (called Homer 
the Younger), Ly’cophron, Nicander, and 
Theoc'ritos, 

= There are in reality eleven stars in 
the Pleiades. 

ii. Lhe literary Pleiad of Chavle- 
imagne. Alcuin (Albi’‘nus), Angilbert 
(Homer), Adelard (Augustine), Riculfe 
(Dametas), Charlemagne (David), Var- 
nefrid, and Eginhard, 


contemporary poets in the sixteenth 
century, in the reign of Henri III., who 
wrote French poetry in the metres, style, 
and verbiage of the ancient Greek and 
Latin poetry. Of these, Ronsard was 
by far the most talented ; but much that 
would be otherwise excellent is spoilt by 
pedantry and Frenchified Latiz. The 
seven names are Ronsard, Dorat, Du 
Bellay, Remi-Belleau, Jodelle, Baif, and 
Thiard. 

The second French Pleiad. Seven con- 
temporary poets in the reign of Louis 
XIII., very inferior to the ‘‘first Pleiad.”’ 
Their names are Rapin, Commire, Larue, 
Santeuil, Ménage, Dupérier, and Petit. 

iv. The lost Pleiad, Electra, one 
of the Pleiadés, wife of Dardanus, dis- 
appeared a little before the Trojan war 
(B.c. 1193), that she might be saved the 
mortification of seeing the ruin of her 
beloved city. She showed herself oc- 
casionally to mortal eye, but always in 
the guise of a comet. Mons. Fréret 
says this tradition arose from the fact 
that a comet does sometimes appear in 
the vicinity of the Pleiadés, rushes in a 
northerly direction, and passes out of 
sight. (See Odyss. v. and Iliad, xviii.) 

Letitia Elizabeth Landon published, in 1829, a 
poem entitled The Lost Pleiad. 

(See above, PLEIADES.) 


Plét is a lash like a knout, but not 
made of raw hides. (Russian, pletu, a 
whip.) 

Pleydell (1%. Paulus). An advocate 
in Edinburgh, formerly sheriff of Ellan- 
gowan. 

“Mr. Counsellor Pleydell was a lively, sharp- 
looking gentleman, with a professional shrewd- 
ness in his eye, and, generally speaking, a profes- 
sional formality in his manner ; but this he could 
slip off on a Saturday evening, when... lie 
joined in the ancient pastime of High Jinks.”’— 
Sir W. Scott: Guy Mannering, XXxix. 

Pli‘able. One of Christian’s neigh- 
bours, who went with him as far as the 
Slough of Despond, and then turned 
back again. (Bunyan: Pilgrin’s Pro- 
gress, pt. 1.) 

Pliny. The German Pliny, Konrad 
von Gesner, of Ziirich (1516-1565). 

Pliny of the East, (See ZAKARISA.) 


Pliny’s Doves. In one of the rooms 
on the upper floor of the museum of the 
Capitol at Rome are the celebrated 
Doves of Pliny, one of the finest and 
most perfectly, preserved specimens of 
ancient mosaic. It represents four doves 
drinking, with a beautiful border sur- 
rounding the composition. The mosaic 
is formed of natural stones, so small 


Plith 


that 160 pieces cover only a square inch. 
It is supposed to be the work of Sosus, 
and is described by Pliny as a proof of 
the perfection to which that art had 
arrived. He says :— 

“At Pergamos is a wonderful specimen of a 
dove drinking, and darkening the water with the 
shadow of her head ; on the lip of the vessel are 
other doves pluming themselves.” 

This exquisite specimen of art was 
found in Villa Adria’na, in 1737, by 
Cardinal Furietti, from whom it was 
purchased by Clement XIII. 

Plith. A piece of iron made hot and 
put into an iron box, to be held for 
punishment by a criminal. (See PLET.) 


Plon-plon. The sobriquet of Prince 
Napoleon Joseph Charles Bonaparte, 
son of Jerome Bonaparte. He was nick- 
named Craint-plon (Fear-bullet) in the 
Criméan war (1854-1856), a nickname 
afterwards perverted into Plon-plon, 
(1822-1891.) 

Plot, in a theatrical sense, does not 
only mean the incidents which lead to 
the development of a play, but half a 
dozen other things; thus, the ‘‘ scene 
plot ”’ is a list of the various scenes to be 
used; the ‘‘flyman’s plot”? is a list of 
the articles required by the flyman in the 
‘flies ;”? there is also the ““ gasman’s 
plot; ’’ the ‘‘ property plot”’ is a list of 
all the properties required in the play, 
for which the manager is responsible. 


Plotcock. The old Scotch form of 
the Roman Pluto, by which Satan is 
meant. Chaucer calls Plato the ‘‘ king 
of Faérie,”’ and Dunbar names him 
ΚΕ Pluto the elrich incubus.”’ 


Plough, fond, Fool, or White 
Plough. The plough dragged about a 
village on Plough Monday. — Called 
white, because the mummers who drag 
it about are dressed in white, gaudily 
trimmed with flowers and _ ribbons, 
Called fond or fool, because the proces- 
sion is fond or foolish—not serious, or of 
a business character. 


Plough Monday. ‘The first Monday 
after Twelfth Day is so called because it 
is the end of the Christmas holidays, 
and the day when men return to their 
plough or daily work. It was customary 
on this day for farm labourers to draw a 
plough from door to door of the parish, 
and solicit ‘‘ plough-money”’ to spend in 
a frolic, The queen of the banquet was 
called Bessy. (See DISTAFF.) 


_Plover. 70 live like a plover, i.e. to 
live on nothing, to live on air. Plovers 
do not, however, live on air, but feed 


988 


Pluck 


largely on small insects. They also eat 
worms, which they hunt for in newly- 
ploughed fields. 


Plowden. ‘Zhe case is ailtered,’’ 
quoth Plowden. Plowden was a priest, 
very unpopular, and in order to bring 
him into trouble some men inveigled him 
into attending mass performed by a lay- 
man, and then impeached him for so do- 
ing. Being brought before the tribunal, 
the cunning priest asked the layman if it 
was he who officiated. ‘‘ Yes,’’ said the 
man. ‘And are you a priest?’’ said 
Plowden. ‘‘No,’’saidthe man, ‘‘Then,”’ 
said Plowden, turning to the tribunal, 
‘‘that alters the case, for it is an axiom 
with the church, ‘No priest, no mass.’ ”’ 


Plowman. Zhe Vision of Piers 
Plowman isa satirical poem by W. [or R.] 
Langland, completed in 1362. The poet 
supposes himself falling asleep on the 
Malvern Hills, and in his dream sees 
various visions of an allegorical charac- 
ter, bearing on the vices of the times, 
In one of the allegories, the Lady An‘ima 
(the soul) is placed in Castle Caro (flesh) 
under the charge of Sir Constable In- 
wit, and his sons See-well, Hear-well, 
Work-well, and Go-well. The whole 
poem consists of nearly 15,000 verses, 
and is divided into twenty parts, each 
part being called a passus, or separate 
vision. 

Pluck. To reject a candidate for 
literary honours because he is not up to 
the required mark. The rejected candi- 
date is said to be plucked. 

When degrees are conferred the name 
of each person is read out before he is 
presented to the Vice-Chancellor. The 
proctor used at one time to walk once 
up and down the room, and anyone who 
objected to the degree being conferred 
might signify his dissent by plucking or 
twitching the proctor’s gown. This was 
occasionally done by tradesmen to whom 
the candidate was in debt; but now all 
persons likely to be objected to, either by 
tradesmen or examiners, know it before- 
hand, and keep away. They are virtually 
plucked, but not really so. 

A case of pluck. An instance of one 
who has been plucked: as ‘‘Tom Jones 
isa case of pluck,”’ i.e. isa plucked man. 

A man of pluck. Of courage or spirit. 
The pluck is the heart, liver, and what- 
ever else is ‘‘ plucked’’ away from the 
chest of a sheep or hog. We also use 
the expressions bold heart, lily-divered, a 
man of another kidney, bowels of mercy, 
a vein of fun, it raised his bile, ete. (See 
LIvER.) 


Pluck his Goose 


Pluck his Goose. J’// pluck his 
goose for him, Thatis: 111 cut his crest, 
Pll lower his pride, I’1] make him eat 
umble pie. Comparing the person to a 
goose, the threat is to pluck off his 
feathers in which he prides himself. 


Plucked Pigeon (4). One fleeced 
out of his money ; one plucked by a rook 
or sharper. 

“There were no smart fellows whom fortune 
had troubled, ... no plucked pigeons or winged 
rooks, no disappointed speculators, no ruined 
miners."—Sir W. Scott: Peveril of the Peak, c. xi. 

Plugson of Undershot. Carlyle’s 
typical commercial Radical in the middle 
of the 19th century, who found that no 
decent Tory would shake hands with 
him; but at the close of the century 
found free-competition company with 
latter-day Tories. 

“There are two motive forces which may impel 
the Plugsons of Toryism ... the pressure is not 
ereat enough to... overcome the vis inertia of 
ΠΣ: and Co,.’—Nineteenth Century, Dec., 1805, 
p. 878. 

Plum. A plumbed (Devonshire). A 
soft bed, in which the down lies light. 

The dough pluns well (Devonshire). 
Rises well, and will not be heavy. 

The cake is nice and plum (Devonshire). 
Light. (2/wip, swelled out.) 

He is worth a plum. The Spanish 
plhona means both plumage and wealth. 
Hence tiene pluma (he has feathered his 
nest). We arbitrarily place this deside- 
ratum at £100,000, and the man who has 
realised only £50,000 has got only half 
a plum. ‘‘ Either a plum or a plum- 
stone ’’—i.e. “Aut Cesar aut nullus.”’ 


Plume Oneself (70). To be con- 
ΒΒ mot.) τ: LON boast ob... AL 
plume is a feather, and to plume oneself 
is to feather one’s own conceit, 

“Mrs. Bute Crawley ... plumed herself upon 
her resolute manner of performing [What she 
thought right).’—Thackeray: Vanity lair. 

Plumes. Jn borrowed plumes. As- 
sumed merit; airs and graces not merited, 
The allusion is to the fable of the jack- 
daw who dressed up in_ peacock’s 
feathers. 


Plumper (4). Every elector repre- 
sented in Parliament by two members 
has the power of voting for both can- 
didates at an election. To give a 
plumper is to vote for only one of the 
candidates, and not to use the second 
vote. If he votes for two candidates of 
opposite politics, his vote is termed a 
split vote. 


Plunger. One who plunges, or 
spends money recklessly in bets, etc. The 
Marquis of Hastings was the first person 


989 


Plymouth Brethren 


so called by the turf. One night he 
played three games of draughts for 
£1,000 a game, and lost all three. He 
then cut a pack of cards for £500 a cut ; 
and lost £5,000 in an hour and a half. 
He paid both debts at once before he left 
the room. 


Plus Ultra. The motto in the royal 
arms of Spain. It was once Ne plus ultra, 
in allusion to the pillars of Hercules, the 
ne plus ultra of the world; but after the 
discovery of America, and when Charles 
V. inherited the crown of Aragon and 
Castile, with all the vast American pos- 
sessions, he struck out ve, and assumed 
the words plus ultra for the national 
motto, as much as to say Spain and the 
plus ultra country. 


Plush (Joi). A gorgeous footman, 
conspicuous for his plush breeches. 


To take plush. To take a subordinate 
place in the ministry, where one can only 
act as a government flunkey. 

“Lord Rosebery perhaps remembers that, years 
ago,a young politician who had just finished his 
education, was warned by an old and affectionate 
teacher ‘not to take plush...’ The reply was, 
ΣΤ have been offered plush tied with red tape. and 


have refused it.”—Nineteenth Century, Jan., 1892, 
p. 137. 
Plu’to. The grave, or the god of 


that region where the dead go to before 
they are admitted into Elysium or sent 
to 'lar'taros. 

“ Brothers, be of good cheer, this night we shall 
sup with Pluto.’”—Leonidus to the three hundred 
Spartans before the battle of Thermopyle. 

“ Give the untasted portion you have won... 

To those who mock you, gone to Pluto's reign.” 

Thomson: Castle of Indolence, canto 1. 

Pluto. Many artists of great repute 
have painted this god, the three most 
famous being that by Jule-Romain 
(1492-1546), a pupil of Raphael, in 
Mantua; one by Augustin Carrache 
(1558-1601), in Modéna, generally called 
Il Famoso; and the third by Lue Gior- 
dano (1632-1701), in the gallery of the 
Palace Riccardi. Raphael has intro- 
duced Pluto in his Assembly of the Gods. 

* In the Villa Albani of Rome is the 
famous antique statue of Pluto and 
Cerberus. 

Piuton’ic Rocks. Granites, and 
certain porphyries, supposed to be of 
igneous, but not of volcanic, origin. So 
called by Lyell from Pluto, the principle 
of elemental fire. 


Plutus. Rich as Plutus. In Greek 
mythology Plutos is the god of riches. 
Plutus and Pluto are widely different. 


Plymouth Brethren. A sect that 
protests against all sectarianism, and 


Plymouth Cloak 


advocates the unity of the church ; some 
even go so far as to advocate a com- 
munity of goods. So called from Ply- 
mouth, where they sprang into existence 
in 1830. 


Plymouth Cloak (4). A good stout 
cudgel. In the time of the Crusades 
many men of good family used to land at 
Plymouth utterly destitute. They went 
to a neighbouring wood, cut themselves 
a good stout club, and, stopping the first 
passenger that passed by, provided them- 
selves with money and clothing. (Fudler: 
lV orthies.) 

Pocahontas. Daughter of Pow- 
hatan, an Indian chief of Virginia, who 
rescued Captain John Smith when her 
father’s hand was on the point of killing 
him. She subsequently married John 
Rolfe, and was baptised under the name 
of Rebecca, (1595-1617.) (See Old and 
New London, i. 481.) 


Pocket (diminutive of poche, a pouch). 

To put ones hand in one’s pocket. To 
give money (generally to some charity). 

Put your pride in your pocket. Lay 
your pride aside for the nonce, 

To be in pocket. To be a gainer by 
some transaction. 

To be out of pocket. 
some transaction, 


Pocket an Insult (70). To submit 
to an insult without apparent displea- 
sure. 


Pocket Borough (4). A borough 
where the influence of the magnate is so 
powerful as to be able to control the 
election of any candidate he may choose 
to support. Well nigh a thing of the 
past since the introduction of voting by 
ballot. 


Pocket Judgment (4). A _ bond 
under the hand of a debtor, counter- 
signed by the sovereign. This bond can 
be enforced without legal process, but 
has quite fallen into disuse. 


Pocket Pistol (4). A dram-flask 
for the pocket, in ‘‘self-defence,’’ be- 
cause we may be unable to get a dram 
on the road. 


Pocket Pistel (Qucen Bess’s). A 
formidable piece of ordnance given to 
Queen Elizabeth by the Low Countries 
in recognition of her efforts to protect 
them in their reformed religion. It 
used to overlook the Channel from 
Dover Cliffs, but in 1894 was removed 
to make room for a battery of modern 
guns. It is said that it contaims in 


To be a loser by 


900 


Poets 


Flemish the equivalent of the following 
words :— 
“ Load me well and keep me clean, 
And I'll carry a ball to Calais Green.” 
But this translation is only fanciful. 


Poco, rather, as a poco forte, poco 
animato, 

Pococurante (5 syl.). Insouciant, 
devil-may-care, easy-go-lucky. As the 
‘* Pococurante Guardsman ”’ (the imper- 
turbable and impassive...). Also 
used for one who in argument leaves the 
main gist and rides off on some minor 
and indifferent point. 


Pococurantism. Insouciance, im- 
perturbability. Also indifference to im- 
portant matters, but concern about trifles. 


Podgers. Toadies, venerators (real 
or pretended) of everything and every- 
one witha name. (John ILfollingshead : 
The Birthplace of Podgers, a farce.) 

Podsnap. A type of the heavy 
gentry, lumbering and straight-backed 
as Elizabethan furniture. (Dickens : 
Our Mutual Friend.) 

Podsnap’pery. The etiquette of 
the fossil gentry, stifi-starched and ex- 
tremely proper. 

“Tt may not be so in the Gospel according to 
Podsnappery ... but it has been the truth since 


the foundations of the universe were laid.’ —Our 
Mutual Friend, 


Poe (εἶχαν Allan). The alias of 
Arthur Gordon Pym, the American 
poet. (1511-1849.) 


Poet Squab. So Rochester calls 
Dryden, who was very corpulent, (1631- 
1701.) 

Poets (Greek, poico, to make). 

Skalds of Scandinavia (etym., scala, 
to sing, Swedish, etc.) 

Minnesingers of the Holy Empire 
(Germany), love-singers. 

Troubadours of Provence in France 
(troubar, to invent, in the Provencal 
dialect). 

Trouvéres of Normandy (rower, to 
invent, in the Walloon dialect). 

Bards of Wales (bardgan, a song, 
Celtic). 

Poet of Haslemere( The), AlfredTenny- 
son (Lord Tennyson), poet laureate (1809 - 
1893). (See Barn.) 

Poet of the poor. Rev. George Crabbe 
(1754-1832), 

Prince of poets. Edmund Spenser is 
so called on his monument in Westmin- 
ster Abbey. (1453-1598.) 

Prince of Spanish poets. Garcila’so 
de la Vega, frequently so called by Cer- 
vantes, (1503-1536.) 


Poets’ Corner 99] 


—_— 


Quaker poet (The). 
(1784-1849). 


Poets’ Corner (Zhe). In Westmin- 
ster Abbey. The popular name given to 
the south corner, because some sort of 
recognition is made of several British 
poets of very varied merits. Asa national 
Valhalla, it is a national disgrace. It is 
but secant honour to be ranked with 
Davenant, Mason, and Shadwell. Some 
recognition is taken of five of our first- 
class poets — viz. Chaucer, Dryden, 
Milton, ‘Shakespeare, and Spenser, 
Wordsworth and Tennyson are recog- 
nised, but not Byron, Pope, Scott, and 
Southey. Gray is very properly acknow- 
ledged, but not Cowper. Room is found 
for Longfellow, an American, but none 
for Burns and Hogg, both Scotchmen. 


to} 


Bernard Barton 


Poets Laureate, appointed by letters 
patent, 


Appointed, Buried. 
= ae .- « f Westminster 
BEN JONSON .. os +» 1615-6 { Abbey. 
Vestminster 
Stk Wai. DAVENANT (1) τ 1a33° { Westminster 
JOHN DRYDEN a +. 1670 { Se ater 
THOMAS SHADWELL (!) .. 1688 
NAHUM TATE Ὁ .- .. 1602 


NICHOLAS ROWE* .- ee 171d 
LAWRENCE EUSDEN (!) -- 1718 
COLLEY CIBBER* -» 1730 
WILLIAM WHITEHEAD (!) 1757 


{ Westminster 


Abbey. 


THOMAS WARTO%® .. ... 1785 
HENRY JAMES PYE(!) .. 1790 
ROBERT SOUTHEY .- «- 1813 
WM. WORDSWORTH ++ 1843 


ALFRED TENNYSON (Lord) 1850 Cr eemieater 


Abbey. 

The following are sometimes included, though 
not appointed by letters patent :—Chaucer, Gower, 
John Key, Bernard, Skelton, Rob. Whittington, 
Richard Edwards, Spenser,and Sam. Daniel. 

(!) Five of the fourteen known only by their 
names. *Three others quite third-rate poets. 
The remaining five were distinguished men. 


A poet laureate is one who has re- 
ceived a laurel crown. There were at 
one time ‘‘ doctors laureate,’’ ‘‘ bachelors 
laureate,”’ etc. 


Poetaster. A very inferior poet. 
The suffix -aster is depreciative (compare 
“‘disaster’’), At one time we had also 
“ὁ grammiatic - aster,’’ ‘‘ politic - aster,”’ 
‘*critic-aster,’”? and some others. (Ital- 
ian, poctastro, a paltry poet.) 


Poetical. (Sce AONIAN.) 


Poetical Justice. That ideal justice 
which poets exercise in making the good 
happy, and the bad unsuccessful in their 
evil schemes. 


Poetry on the Greek Model. (Sze 
CHIABRERESCO.) 
Father of English poetry. Geoffrey 


Chaucer (1328-1400); so called by 


Point 


Dryden. Spenser calls him ‘‘the pure 
well of English undefiled.’’ He was not 
the first English poet, but was so superior 
to his predecessors that he laid the 
foundation of a newera. He is some- 
times termed ‘‘the day-starre,’’? and 
Spenser the ‘‘sun-rise’’ of English 
poetry. 

Po'gram. A ‘“ creak-shoe3,”’ a Puri- 
tanical starch mawworm. 


Poille. An Apu'lian horse. The 
horses of Apulia were very greatly 
valued at one time. Richard, Arch- 
bishop of Armagh in the fourteenth 
century, says of St. Thomas, ‘‘ Neither 
the mule of Spain, the courser of Apulia, 
the repe’do ot Ethiopia, the elephant of 
Asia, the camel of Syria, nor the English 
ass, 1s bolder or more combative than 
he.”’ 

“ Therto so horsly, and so quyk of ye, 

As if ἃ gentil Poille hys courser were ; 

For certés, fro his tayl unto bis cere 

Nature ne art ne couthe him nought amend.” 
Chaucer: Canterbury Tules, line 10,536. 

Poins. One of the companions of 
Sir John Falstaff. (Shakespeare: 1 and 


2 Henry IV.) 


Point. Defined by Euclid as ‘‘ that 
which hath no parts.’? Playfair defines 
it as ‘* that which has position but not 
magnitude,’’ and Legendre says it ‘‘is a 
limit terminating a line;’’ but none of 
these definitions can be called either 
philosophical or exact. A point is not 
necessarily a ‘‘ limit terminating a line,”’ 
for if so a point could not exist, even in 
imagination, without a line. Besides, 
Legendre’s definition presupposes that 
we know what a line is; but assuredly a 
“‘noint’’ precedes a ‘‘line,’’ as a line 
precedes a. ‘‘ superficies.”’ ΤῸ arrive at 
Legendre’s idea we must begin with a 
solid, and say a supertficies is the ‘‘ iimit 
terminating each tace of a solid,’ lines 
are the ‘‘ limits terminating a superfi- 
cies,’? and points are the ‘limits ter- 
minating aline.’’? In regard to Euclid’s 
definition, we say: Bx nihilo nihil fit. 

In good point (French, embonpoint, 
plump.) (See Stretch a point.) 

To carry one’s point. To gain the 
object sought for. The allusion is to 
archery. 

To dine on potatoes and point. To have 
potatoes without salt, a very meagre 
dinner indeed. When salt was very 
dear, and the cellar was empty, parents 
used to tell their children to point their 
potato to the salt cellar, and eat it. 
This was potato and point. In the tale 
of Ralph Richards the Miser, we are told 
that he gave his boy dry bread, and 


Point-blank 


999 Poisonersg 


whipped him for pointing it towards the 
cupboard where a bit of cheese was kept 
in a bottle. 

To make a point of (doing something}. 
To consider the matter as a point of 
duty. The reference is to the old Roman 
way of voting by ballot. The ballot 
tablets were thrown by the voters into 
a chest, and were afterwards counted 
by points marked on a tablet, and to 
obtain every vote was to ‘‘ carry every 
point’ (‘‘ Omne talit punctum” [Horace]). 
Hence a point of duty or point of con- 
science is a plank on the platform of 
duty or conscience, 

10 stretch a point. To exceed what is 
strictly right. Points were the tagged 
laces used in ancient dress: hence, to 
“truss a point,’’ to truss or tie the laces 
which held the breeches ; to ‘‘ stretch a 
point ᾽ is to stretch these laces, so as to 
adjust the dress to extra growth, or the 
temporary fulness of good feeding. At 
Whitsuntide these points or tags were 
given away by the churchwardens, 

“Their points being broken, down fell their 
hose.’-—Shukespeare : 1 Henry LV., ii. 4. 

Point-blank. Direct. <A term in 
gunnery ; When a cannon is so placed 
that the lne of sight is parallel to the 
axis and horizontal, the discharge is 
point-blank, and is supposed to go 
direct to the object without a curve. In 
French point blanc is the white mark or 
bull’s eye of a target, to hit which the 
ball or arrow must not deviate in the 
least from the exact path. 

“Now art thou within point-blank of our juris- 
diction regal,”"—Shakespeare: 2 Henry VI., iv. 7. 

Point d’Appui (French). A stand- 
point ; a fulerum : a position from which 
you can operate; a pretext to conceal 
the real intention, Literally the point 
of support. 


“The material which gives name to the dish is 
but the point Cappui for the literary cayenne and 
curry-powder, by which it is recommended to the 
palate of the reader,’'—The Atheneum. 


Point de Judas (French). The 
number 13. The twelve apostles and our 
Lord made thirteen at the Last Supper. 


Point-devise. Punctilious : minutely 
exact. Holofernes says, ‘‘I abhor such 
insociable and point de vise companions, 
such rackers of orthography.’’ (French, 
point de vise.) 

“You are rather point de vise in your accoutre- 
ments.” —Shakespeare: As You Like It, iii. 2. 

Points. Armed at all points. ‘ Armé 
de toutes pieces,” or * Armé jusqw aua 
dents.’ ** Armed at all points exactly 
cap-a-pie,”’ 


To stand on points. On puuetilios; de- 
licacy of behaviour. 

“This fellow doth not stand upon points.”— 
Shakespeare : Midsummer Night's Dream, ν.1. 

Points of the Escutcheon. There 
are nine points distinguished in heraldry 
by the first nine letters of the alphabet 
—three at top, A, B, C; three down the 
middle, D, EK, F; and three at the bot- 
tom, G,H,I. The first three are chiefs ; 
the middle three are the collar point, fess 
point, and nombril or navel point ; the 
bottom three are the base points. 


Poison. It is suid that poisons had 
no effect on Mithrida’tes, King of Pontus. 
This was Mithridates VI., called the 
Great, who succeeded his father at the 
age of eleven, and fortified his consti- 
tution by drinking antidotes to poisons 
which might at any moment be adminis- 
tered to him by persons about the court. 
(See Aqua TOFANA.) 


Poison Detectors. 

Aladdin’s ving was 
against every evil. 

Gundoforus. No one could pass with 
poison the gate of Gundoforus. 

Nourgehaws bracelet. When poison 
was present the stones of this bracelet 
seemed agitated, 

Opals turn pale at the approach of 
poison, 

Peacocks ruffle their feathers at the 
sight of poison. 

Rhinoceros. If poison is put into a 
cup made of rhinoceros’ horn, the liquid 
will effervesce. 

Sign of the Cross was supposed in the 
Middle Ages to be a poison detector. 

Venetian glass will shiver at the ap- 
proach of poison. (See also PHiLo- 
SOPHER’S EGG.) 


Poison of Khaibar refers to the 
poisoned leg of mutton of which Maho- 
met partook while in the citadel of 
Khaibar. It was poisoned by Zainab, 
a Jewess, and Mahomet felt the effects 
of the poison to the end of his life. 


a preservative 


Poisoners (Sccvct). 

(1) Locusta, a woman of ancient Rome, 
who was employed by the Empress 
Agrippina to poison her husband Clau- 
dius. Nero employed the same woman 
to poison Britannicus and others. 

(2) The Borgias (Fope Alexander VI. 
and his children, Cesar and Lucrezia) 
were noted poisoners. 

(8) Hieronyma Spara and Toffania, of 
Italy. (See Aqua ToraNna.) 

(4) Marquise de Brinyilliers, a young 
profligate Frenchwoman, taught the art 


Poisson 993 


Polixenes 


by an officer named Sainte Croix, who 
learnt it in Italy. (See World of Won- 
ders, part vii. p. 203.) 

(5) Lavoisin and Lavigoreux, French 
midwives and fortune-tellers, 

(6) Anna Maria Zweinziger, sentenced 
to death in 1811. 

In English history we have a few in- 
stances: e.g. Sir Thomas Overbury was 
so murdered by the Countess of Somer- 
set. King James, it has been said, was a 
victim to similar poisoning, by Villiers, 
Duke of Buckingham. 


Pois’son d’Avril. An April fool. 
The poisson εἶ" Avril is the mackerel, and 
we have the expression ‘ You silly 
mackerel,’’ and silly indeed are those 
who allow themselves to be caught by 
the palpable jokes engendered on the 
Ist of April. The Scotch say ‘‘ hunting 
the gowk” (cuckoo). It is said that the 
best explanation is a reference to Matt. 
XxIX, 2: 

“ἢ The mackerel, says Oudin, is called the poisson 
d Avril, “parce que les mucquereauc se prennent 
et semangent environ ce mois-la.* 

A correspondent of Notes and Queries (June 20, 
1891, p. 494) says that the April fish is the aurata, 
sacred to Venus. 


Poke. A bag, pouch, or sack. 
Poke. A lazy person, a loafer, a 
dawdler. 


Poke. To thrust or push against; to 
thrust or butt with the horns. Also to 
busy oneself without any definite object. 

“Poking about where we had no business,”— 
Kingsley}: Two Years Ago. 

To poke fun at one is to make one a 
laughing-stock. 

“At table he was hospitable and jocose, always 
poking good-natured fun at Luke.’"—#. Lyin 
Lynton: Lizzie Lorton of Grevrigg, chap. xii. 

Poke Bonnet; A long, straight, pro- 
jecting bonnet, formerly commonly worn 
by women, 


Poker. 4 poker set leaning against 
the upper bars of a fire to draw it up. 
This is to make a cross to keep off Lob, 
the house spirit, who loves to lie before 
the fire, and, like Puck and Robin Good- 
fellow, dearly loves mischief and practi- 
cal jokes. 


Poker Pictures. Drawings executed 
by the point of a hot poker or ‘‘ heater ”’ 
of anItalianiron. By charring different 
parts more or less, various tints are 
obtained. 


Poker Talk. Gossip, fireside chit- 
chat. 


“Gaston rattled forth this specimen of poker 
talk lightly,"—Mrs. Edwardes: A Girton Girl, 
63 


Pokers. The ’squire Bedels who 
carry a silver mace or poker before the 
Vice-Chancellor are so called at Cam- 
bridge. 


Poky. Cramped, narrow, confined ; 
as, a poky corner. Also poor and shabby. 

“The ladies were in their pokiest old head- 
gear.”—Thackeray : The Newcomes, chap. lvii. 

Polack. An inhabitant of Poland. 
(French, Polaque.) 


“So frowned he once, when, in angry parle, 
He smote thesledded Polacks on the ice.” 
Shakespeare: Hamlet, i. 1. 
Polarisation of Light is the ab- 
sorption of those rays which are at right 
angles to the rays preserved: Thus AB 
is one ray in which Α is re- 


A G 
© c6p e@r flected to B and B to A; 
B H CDisaray, in which Ο is 


reflected to D and p to c. In EGFH, 
if the light is polarised, either E F or 
GH is absorbed. ABfand CD are the 
poles of light, or the directions in which 
the rays are reflected. 


Po’leas (2 syl.). The labouring class 
of India. 
“ Poleas the labouring lower clans are named, 

By the proud Nayres the noble rank is claimed.” 

Poles. Under bare poles. Said of a 
ship when all her sails are furled. 


Polichinelle. Jc secretde... 
SECRET.) 


(See 


Polinesso (in Orlando Furioso). Duke 
of Albany, who falsely accused Geneu'ra 
of incontinency, and was slain in single 
combat by Ariodantés. 


Polish off. To finish out of hand. 
In allusion to articles polished. 

Tul polish him off im no time means 
ΤΊ] set him dowp, 111 give him a drube 
bing. 

To polish off a meal isto eat it quickly, 
and not keep anyone waiting. 


Political Economy. This term was 
invented by Francois Quesnay, the French 
physician. (1694-1774.) 

Polixene (3 syl.). The name as- 
sumed by Madelon in Moliére’s Précicuses 
Ridicules. 

Polix’enes (4 syl.), King of Bohemia, 
being invited to Sicily by King Leontes, 
excites unwittingly the jealousy of his 
friend, because he prolongs his stay at 
the entreaty of Queen Hermi'oné. Leontes 
orders Camillo to poison the royal guest, 
but, instead of doing so, Camillo flees 
with him to Bohemia. In time Florizel, 
the son and heir of Polixenes, falls in 
love with Perdita, the lost daughter of 


Poll 994 


Polydamas 


a πα ἷὦὮὦἷἝἷἝἷἃἷςἷἝἷἝἷὙ΄΄΄΄ὖὋΠἔΡ,͵Ί“““΄΄ῇ΄ῇἰῇ΄ππππρ“««Φπ«τ-ΦτοὸοΗηυὑττΤτττ  ῦ τ ὋὋςαὄ 


Leontes. Polixenes forbids the match, 
and the young lovers, under the charge 
of Camillo, flee to Sicily. Polixenes 
follows the fugitives, the mystery of 
Perdita is cleared up, the lovers are 
married, and the two kings resume 
their friendship. (Shakespeare : Winter's 
Tale.) 

Poll. Zo go out in the poll. To take 
an ordinary degree—a degree without 


university ‘‘honours.”” (Greek, hot 
polloi, the many.) 

Poll Degree. (Sve above.) 

Poll Men. Those of the ‘hoi pol- 


loi,’”’ the many, not the honour-men. 


Pollenté. The puissant Saracen, 
father of Mu’nera. He took his station 
on ‘Bridge Perilous,’? and attacked 
everyone who crossed it, bestowing the 
spoil upon his daughter. Sir Artegal 
slew the monster. Pollente is meant tor 
Charles IX. of France, sadly notorious 
for the slaughter of Protestants on St. 
Bartholomew’s Eve. (Spenser: Faerie 
Queene, book vy. 2.) 


Pollio, to whom Virgil addresses his 
Fourth Eclogue, and to whom he ascribes 
the remarkable advent of the ‘‘ golden 
age,’’ was the founder of the first public 
library of Rome. (B.C. 76-A.D. 4.) 


Pollux. Zhe horses of Castor and 
Pollux. CylVaros and Har'pagos. Seneca 
and Claudian give Cyllaros to Castor, 
but Virgil (Georgic ii.) to Pollux. The 
two brothers mount it alternately on 
their return from the infernal regions. 
Har'’pagos, the horse from Harpa’gium in 
Phrygia, was common to both brothers. 


Polly. Mary. The change of M for 
P in pet pames is by no means rare ; 
6.7.-- 

Margaret. Maggie or Meggy, becomes 
Peggie, and Pegg or Peg. 

Martha. Matty becomes Patty. 

Mary. Molly becomes Polly or Poll. 

Here we see another change by no 
means unusual—that of + into ὦ or //. 
Similarly, Sarah becomes Sally ; Dorothea, 
Dora, becomes Dolly ; Harry, Hal. 


Polo’nius. An old courtier, garru- 
lous, conceited, and politic. He was 
father of Ophe'lia, and lord chamberlain 
to the king of Denmark, (Shakespeare : 
Hanilet.) 


Polo‘ny. A vulgar corruption of 
Bolo'gna sausage. 
Polt-foot. A club-foot. Ben Jon- 


son calls Vulcan, who was lame, the 


‘‘polt-footed philosopher.”” (Swedish, 
bult, a club; bulta, to beat; our dolt.) 


Poltron. A bird of prey, with the 
talons of the hind toes cut off to prevent 
its flying at game. (Latin, pollicetrun- 
cato, deprived of its toe or thumb.) 


Poltroon’. A coward. Menage de- 
rives it from the Italian poltio, a bed, 
because cowards feign themselves sick 
a-bed in times of war. Saumaise says it 
means ‘‘ maimed of the thumb,’’ because 
in times of conscription those who had 
no stomach for the field disqualitied 
themselves by cutting off their right 
thumb. More probably a poltroon is a 
hawk that will not or cannot fly at game. 
(See above.) 

Polybo'tes (4 syl.). One of the 
giants who fought against the gods. 
‘The sea-god pursued him to the island of 
Cos, and, tearing away part of the island, 
threw it on him and buried him beneath 
themass. (Greek fable.) (See GIANTS.) 

Polycle'tus. A statuary of Sic’yon, 
who deduced a canon of the proportions 
of the several parts of the human body, 
and made a statue of a Persian body- 
guard, which was admitted by all to be 
a model of the human form, and was 
called ‘‘ The Rule”’ (the standard). 


Polyc rates (4 syl.), Tyrant of Samos, 
was so fortunate in all things that 
Amasis, King of Egypt, advised him to 
chequer his pleasures by relinquishing 
something he greatly prized. Where- 
upon Polycratés threw into the sea a 
beautiful seal, the most valuable of his 
jewels. A few days afterwards a fine 
fish was sent him as a present, and in 
its belly was found the jewel. Amasis, 
alarmed at this good fortune, broke off 
his alliance, declaring that sooner or later 
this good fortune would fail; and not 
long afterwards Polycrates was shame- 
fully put to death by Orcetés, who had 
invited him to his court. 


“Richard [Mutimer], in surveying his guests, 
... had feelings not unlike those which lulled 
King Polycrates of old.”"—G. Gissiig: Deinos, 


chap. X11. 
Polycrates’ Ring. (Sce above.) 


Polycraticon, in eight books, by 
John of Salisbury. This is his chief 
work, and is an exposé of the frivolities 
of courtiers and philosophers. It is 
learned, judicious, and very satirical. 
(He died 1182.) 

Polyd’amas. A Grecian athlete of 
immense size and strength. He killed a 
fierce lion without any weapon, stopped 
a chariot in full career, lifted a mad bull, 


Polydore 


99 


9 


Pontiff 


and died at last in attempting to stop a 
falling rock. (See Mito.) 

Pol’ydore (3 syl.). The name as- 
sumed by Guide’rius, in Shakespeare’s 
Cymbeline. 

Polyphe’‘me (3 syl.). One of the 
Cyclops, who lived in Sicily. He was an 
enormous giant, with only one eye, and 
that in the middle of his forehead. When 
Ulysses landed on the island, this mon- 
ster made him and twelve of his crew 
captives ; six of them he ate, and then 
Ulysses contrived to blind him, and 
make good his escape with the rest of 
the crew. Polypheme was most passion- 
ately in love with Galate’a, ἃ sea-nymph, 
but Galate’a had set her heart on the 
shepherd Acis, whom Polypheme, in a fit 
of jealousy, crushed beneath a rock. 


Polyphemus sitting on a rock and playing a flute. 


Po'ma Alcinco Dare (2 syl.). (See 
ALCINOO. ) 
Poma’‘tum. So called because it was 


originally made by macerating over-ripe 
apples in grease. (Dr. John Quincy: 
Lexicon Physico-Medicum, 1723.) 


Pommard (French). Beer. This is 
a pun on the word pone. The Nor- 
mans called cider pomie ; whence pomat, 
a sort of beer. 

“Tl1s tiennent leure chaloupes... bien pourvues 
ou garnies de pain, de vin, de pomat, cidre, outre 
@autre boisson. ,. .”"—Cleirac: Les Us et Contumes 
de la Mer, p. 127. 

Pommel. The pommel of a saddle 
is the apple of it, called by the French 
pommeau. The Spaniards use the ex- 
pression pomo deespada (the pommel of a 
sword). To ‘‘ pommel a person’? is to 
beat him with the pommel of your 
sword. The ball used as an ornameut 
on pointed roofs is termed a pommel. 
(Latin, pour, an apple.) 


Pomo’na. Fruit; goddess of fruits 
and fruit-trees—one of the Roman 
divinities. (Latin, pom.) 

“ Bade the wide fabric unimpaired sustain 

Pomv/na’s store,and cheese, and golden grain.” 

Bloomfield: Farmers Boy. 

Pom’'padour, as a colour, is claret 
purple. The 56th Foot is called the 
Pompadours, from the claret facings of 
their regimental uniforms. There is an 
old song supposed to be an elegy on John 
Broadwood, a Quaker, which introduces 
the word :— 

“ Sometimes he wore an old brown coat, 
Sometimes a pompadore , 


Sonietimes ‘twas buttoned up bebind, 
And sometimes down before,” 


Pompey. A generic name for a black 
footman, as Abigail used to be of a lady’s 
maid, Moll or Molly isa cook; Betty, a 
housemaid ; Sambo, a black ‘‘ buttons ΠΣ 
ete. One of Hood’s jokes for a list of 
library books was, Pompeii ; ov, Memoirs 
of a Black Footman, by Sir W. Gill. 
(Sir W. Gell wrote a book on Pompeii.) 
Pompey is also a common name for a 
dog. 


Pompey’s Pillar, in Alexandria. A 
pillar erected by Publius, Prefect of 
Kgypt, in honour of the Emperor Dio- 
cletian, to record the conquest of Alex- 
andria in 296. It has about as much 
right to be called Pompey’s pillar as the 
obelisk of Heliop’olis, re-erected by 
Ram/’eses II. at Alexandria, has to be 
called Cleopatra’s Needle, or Gibraltar 
Rock to be called a Pillar of Her’culés, 


Pompey’s pillar is a Corinthiar 


; 1 2 column nearly 
100 feet high, the shaft being of r 


ed granite. 


Pompilia. The bride of Count 
Guido Franceschini, who is brutally 
treated by him, but makes her escape 
under the protection of a young priest, 
named Caponsacchi. She subsequently 
gives birth to a son, but is stabbed to 
death by her husband. (Robert Brown- 
ing: The Ring and the Book.) (See 
RING.) 


Pongo. The terrible monster of Sicily. 
A cross between a ‘ land-tiger and 
sea-shark.”? He devoured five hundred 
Sicilians, and left the island for twenty 
miles round without inhabitant. This 
amphibious monster was slain by the 
three sons of St. George. (The Seven 
Champions of Christendom, iii. 2.) A 
loose name for African anthropoid apes. 


Ponoc’rates (4 syl.). Gargantua’s 
tutor, in the romance of LPantag’ruel’ 
and Gargantua, by Rabelais, 


Pons Asinorum. The fifth pro- 
position, book 1., of Euclid—the first 
difficult theorem, which dunces rarely 
get over for the first time without 
stumbling. It is anything but a 
“bridge ;” it is really pedica asinorwn, 
the ‘‘ dolt’s stumbling-block.”’ 


Pontefract Cakes. Liquorice lo- 
zebges impressed with a castle ; so called 
from being made at Pontefract. 

“ Pont/efract” pronounce “ Pomfret.” 

Pontiff means one who has charge of 
the bridges. According to Varro, the 


highest class of the Roman priesthood 
had to superintend the construction of 


Pontius Pilate 


the bridges (pontes). (See Ramsay : 
Roman Antiquities, p. 51.) 

“ Wellhas the name of Pontifex heen given 
Unto the chureh’s head, as the chief builder 
And architect of the invisible bridge 
That leads from earth to heaven.” 

Longfellow: Golden Legend, v. 

*? Here Longfellow follows the general 
notion that ‘‘ pontiff’’ is from pons-facio, 
and refers to the tradition that a Roman 
priest threw over the Tiber, in the time 
of Numa, a svblician, or wooden bridge. 

Sublicins means made of timber or piles. There 
were subsequently eight stone bridszes, and 
Emilius converted the sublician bridge into a 
stone one. There were fifteen pontiffs in the time 
of Sylla. 

Pontius Pilate’s Body-Guard. 
The Ist Foot Regiment, uow called the 
Royal Scots, the oldest regiment in the 
service. When called Le Regiment de 
Douglas, and in the French service, they 
had a dispute with the Picardy regiment 
about the antiquity of their respective 
corps. The Picardy officers declared 
they were on duty on the night of the 
Crucifixion, when the colonel of the Ist 
Foot replied, ‘‘ If we had been on guard, 
we should not have slept at our posts.”’ 


Pony (4). Twenty-five pounds, A 
sporting term; a translation crib = to 
carry one over a difficulty. 

Pony in vingt-et-un, The person on 
the right-hand of the dealer, whose duty 
it is to collect the cards for the dealer ; 
so called from the Latin pone, ‘ behind,” 
being behind the dealer, 


Poona. A sovereign. Lingua Franca 
for pound. 


Poor. Poor as Job. The allusion is 
to Job, who was by Satan deprived of 
everything he possessed. 

Poor as Lazarus, ‘This is the beggar 
Lazarus, full of sores, who was laid at 
the rich man’s gate, and desired to be 
fed from the crumbs that fell from Divés’ 
table (Luke xvi. 13-31). 

Poor as a church mouse. Tn a church 
there is no cupboard or pantry, where 
mice most do congregate. 

There ave none poor but those whom 
God hates. This does not mean that 
poverty is a punishment, but that the 
only poverty worthy of the name is 
poverty of God’s grace. In this sense 
Divés may be the poor man, and Lazarus 
the begear abounding in that ‘* blessing 
of the Lord which maketh rich.”’ 


Poor Jack or John (4). Dried 
hake, Wehave “john-dory,”’ a ‘‘jack”’ 
(pike), a ‘‘ jack shark,’”’ and a ‘‘ jack 
of Dover.’’ Probably the word Jack is 


996 


pope). 


Pope 


a mere play on the word ‘‘ Hake,’’ and 
John a substitute for Jack, 


“Tis well thou art not Ash ; if thou hadst, thou 
hadst been poor-john.”—Shakespeare : Romeo and 
Juliet, i. 1. 


** We have a similar perversion in the school- 
boy proof that a pigeon-pie isa fish-pie. A pizeon- 
pie isa pie-john, and a pie-johnis a jack-pie,and 
a jack-pie is a fish-pie. 

Poor Man. ‘The blade-bone of a 
shoulder of mutton, so called in Seot- 
land, In some parts of England it is 
termed a‘ poor knight of Windsor,’’ be- 
cause it holds the same relation to Sir Loin 
as a Windsor knight does to a baronet. 
Sir Walter Scott tells of a Scotch laird 
who, being asked by an English land- 
lord what he would have tor dinner, 
produced the utmost consternation by 
saying, “1 think I could relish a morsel 
of a poorman.”’ (See Bride of Lammer- 
moor, chap. Xix.) 


Poor Richard. The assumed name 
of Benjamin Franklin in a series of 
almanacks from 1732 to 1757. These 
almanacks contain maxims and precepts 
on temperance, economy, cleanliness, 
chastity, and other homely virtues; and 
to several of the maxims are added the 
words, “as poor Richard says.’’ Nearly 
a century before Robert Herrick had 
brought out a series of almanacks under 
the name of Poor Robin's Almanack., 


Poor Tassel (4). A poor hand, a 
bad workman, no great shakes. The 
tassel or tiercel was a male goshawk, 
restricted to princes, and called a ‘ tassel 
gentle.”’ 

“Venturing this opinion to the brick-maker, he 
laughingly replied, ‘Come, then, and try your 
hand at a brick.’ The trial, however, proved me 
a ‘poor tassel, amidst the Jeers and laughter of 
the men.’—C. Thomson: Autobiography, ). 52. 

Poorer than Irus (‘“‘J70 pauperior’’). 
Irus was the beggar employed by the 
suitors of Penelopé to carry to her their 
tokens of love. When Ulysses returned 
home, Irus attempted to prevent his en- 
tering the gates, but Ulysses felled him 
to the ground, and threw the dead body 
into the road. 


Pop the Question (70). ΤῸ propose 
or make an offer of marriage. As this 
important demand is supposed to be 
unexpected, the question is said to be 
popped. 

Pope lived at Twickenham. 
1744.) 

“ For though not sweeter his own Homer sings, 


Yet is his life the more endearing song.” 
Themson: Summer. 


Pope (1 syl.), in Latin popa (plur. 
A priest who knocked on the 
head the ox offered in sacrifice, and cut 


(1688- 


Pope 


997 


Popinjay 


it up, a very small part being burnt, and 
all the rest distributed to those concerned 
in the sacrifice. Wine was poured 
between the horns, but the priest first 
sipped it, and all those who assisted 
him. After the beast had been stunned 
it was stabbed, and the blood was caught 
in a vessel used for the purpose, for the 
shedding of blood was indispensable in 
every sacrifice. It was the duty of the 
pope to see that the victim to be sacri- 
ficed was without spot or blemish, and 
to ascertain that it had never been 
yoked to the plough. The head was 
crowned with a fillet, and the horns gilt. 
Apparently the Roman soldiers of Pon- 
tius Pilate made a mockery imitation of 
these Roman and Greek sacrifices. 


Pope. Zhe Pope changing his name. 
According to Platina, Sergius II. was 
the first pope who changed his name on 
ascending the papal chair. His proper 
name was Hogsmouth. Chambers says 
his name was ‘‘ Peter di Porea,”’’ and it 
was the name Peter he changed, out of 
deference to St. Peter, thinking it arro- 
gant to style himself Peter II. (844-847). 

1 know no more about it than the Pope 
of Rome—than a man livirg as far 
off as the Cham of Tartary or Pope of 
Ttome. 

Drunk like a pope. Benedict XII. 
Was an enormous eater and such a 
wine-drinker that he gave rise to the 
bacchanalian expression, bildmus papa- 
liter. (See DRUNK.) 


Pope. Titles assumed by the popes. 

Universal Bishop. Prior to Gregory 
the Great. 

Servus Servorwn. Assumed by Gregory 
the Great in 591. 

The Lamb of God which taketh away 
the Sins of the World. Martin IY. in 
1281. 

Divine Majesty; Husband of the 
Church ; Prince of the* Apostles ; Key of 
the whole Universe; the Pastor and 
Physician possessed of all Power both in 
Heaven and Earth. Leo X, in 1513. 

Monarch of Christendom ; Vice-God ; 
Lord God the Pope. Paul V. in 1635. 

Master of the World; the Universal 
Father ; Viceregent of the Most High. 
Subsequent to Paul V. 

(See Brady: Clavis Calendaria, 247.) 

Pope Joan. Said to have succeeded 
Leo lV. Gibbon says, ‘‘ Two Protestants, 
Blondel and Bayle, annihilated her ;”’ 
but Mosheim seems half-inclined to be- 
lieve there was such a person. The vul- 
gar tale is that Joan conceived a violent 
passion for the monk Folda, and in order 


to get admission to him assumed the 
monastic habit. Being clever and popu- 
lar, she got to be elected pope. 


Pope’s Sermon (4). Only once has 
a pope been known to preach a sermon 
in three hundred years. In 1847 a great 
crowd had assembled to hear the famous 
Padre Ventura preach in Santa Andrea 
della Valle, of Rome, but the preacher 
failed to appear; whereupon Pius IX. 
ascended the pulpit, and gave a sermon. 
(De Liancourt : History of Pius IX.) 

The Pope's slave. So Cardinal Cajetan 
calls the Church. (Sixteenth century.) 


Pope’s Tiara (7c). He calls him- 
self (1) Head of the Catholic or Universal 
Church ; (2) Sole Arbiter of its Rights ; 
and (3) Sovereign Father of all the kings 
of the earth. From these assumptions 
he wears a triple crown—one as High 
Priest, one as Emperor, and one as 
King. (See Brady, 250, 251.) 

* For the first five centuries the 
Bishops of Rome wore a bonnet, like 
other ecclesiastics, 

Pope Hormasdas (514-523) placed on 
his bonnet the crown sent him by 
Clovis. 

Boniface VIII. (1224-1303) added a 
second crown during his struggles with 
Philip the Fair. 

John XXII, (1410-1415) assumed the 
third crown. 


Popefigland. An island inhabited 
by the Gaillardets (French, gaillard, gay 
people), rich and free, till, being shown 
one day the pope’s image, they ex- 
claimed, ‘‘ A fig for the pope! ’’ where- 
upon the whole island was put to the 
sword. Its name was then changed to 
Popefigland, and the people were called 
Popefigs. 


Pop'injay. A butterfly man, a fop; 
so called from the popinjay or figure of 
a bird shot at for practice. The jay was 
decked with parti-coloured feathers so 
as to resemble a parrot, and, being sus- 
pended on a pole, served as a target. 
He whose ball or arrow brought down 
the bird by cutting the string by which 
it was hung, received the proud title of 
‘* Captain Popinjay,”’ or ‘‘ Captain of the 
Popinjay,”’ for the rest of the day, and 
was escorted home in triumph. (See 
Old Mortality, ch. ii.) 

“ Τ then, all smarting with my wounds being cold, 
To be so pestered with a popinjay, 
Answered neglectingly I know not what, 
He should or he should not.” 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV., i. 3. 

The Festival of the Popinjay. The 

first Sunday in May. (See above.) 


Popish Plot 998 


Popish Plot. A plot in the reign of 
Charles II. to massacre the Protestants, 
burn London, and assassinate the king. 
‘Titus Oates invented this ‘‘wise’’ scheme, 
and obtained great wealth by revealing 
it; but ultimately he was_pilloried, 
whipped, and imprisoned. (See GuNn- 
POWDER Prot.) 


Poplar (716). (Latin, popiilus, from 
populus, the people.) Being symbolical of 
the people, both because its leaves are 
dark on one side and white on the other, 
and also because they are never still, but 
blown about by the least. gust of wind. 
In France, to the present day, the pop- 
lar is an emblem of democracy. There 
are black and white poplars, and the 
aspen-tree is one of the species, 

The white poplar was consecrated to 
Her’culés, because he destroyed Ka’kos 
in a cavern of Mount Aventine, which 
was covered with poplars. In the mo- 
ment of triumph the hero plucked a 
branch from one of the trees and bound 
it round his head. When he descended 
to the infernal regions, the heat caused 
a profuse perspiration which blanched 
the under surface of the leaves, while the 
smoke of the eternal flames blackened 
the upper surface. Hence the Hercu'- 
lean poplar has its leaves black on one 
side and white on the other. 


Porcelain (3 syl.), from porcelana, 
“a little pig.’ So called by the Portu- 
guese traders, from its resemblance to 
cowrie-shells, the shape of which is not 
unlike a pig’s back. The Chinese earthen- 
ware being white and glossy, like the 
inside of the shells, suggested the appli- 
cation of the name. (See Marryatt’s 
History of Pottery and Porcelain.) 


Poreh (Ziic). A philosophic sect, 
gencrally called Stoics (Greek, stoa, a 
porch), because Zeno, the founder, gave 
his lectures in the Athenian picture gal- 
lery, called the porch Pe'cilé. 

“The successors of Socratés formed societies 
which lasted several centuries; the Academy, 
the Porch, the Garden.’—Professor Seeley: Lecce 
Homo. 


Porcupine. (See PETER.) 


Porcus. The Latins call me ““ poreus.”’ 
A sly reproof to anyone boasting, show- 
ing off, or trying to make himself appear 
greater than he is. The fable says that 
a wolf was going to devour a pig, when 
the pig observed that it was Friday, 
and no good Catholic would eat meat on 
a Friday. Going on together, the wolf 
said to the pig, ‘‘ They seem to call you 
by many names,’’ ‘ Yes,’’ said the pig, 


Port 


““T am called swine, grunter, hog, and I 
know not what besides. The Latins call 
me porcus.’’ ‘* Porpus, do they τ᾽ said 
the wolf, making an intentional blunder. 
“Ὁ Well, porpoise isa fish, and we may eat 
fish ona Friday.’’ So saying, he devoured 
him without another word. 


Poreus Litera’rum. A _ literary 
glutton, one who devours books without 
regard to quality. 

Pork! Pork! Sylvester, in his trans- 
lation of Du Bartas, gives this instead of 
caw, caw, as the ery of the raven. 

Tork, Sir Thomas Browne says that 
the Jews abstain from pork not from 
fear of leprosy, as Tacitus alleges, but 
because the swine is an emblem of im- 
purity. (Vudgar Errors.) 


Pork, Pig. The former is Norman- 
French, the latter Saxon. 
“Pork, I think, is good Norman-French ; and 


so, When the brute lives. and is in charge of a 
Saxon slave, she goes hy her Saxon name; but 
hecomes a Norman,and 1s called pork, when she 


is carried to the cas.le-hall.’—Sir Walter Scott ; 
Ivanhoe. 

Porphyr'ion. One of the giants who 
made war with the gods. He hurled the 
island of Delos against Zeus (Jupiter) ; 
but Zeus, with the aid of Hercules, 
overcame him. (Greek fable.) (See 
GIANTS. ) 


Porridge. Lverything tastes of por- 
ridge. However we may deceive our- 


selves, whatever castles in the air we 
may construct, the fact of home life will 
always intrude. Sir Walter Scott tells 
us of an insane man who thought the 
asylum his castle, the servants his own 
menials, the inmates his guests. ‘‘ Al- 
though,”’ said he, ‘‘I am provided with 
a first-rate cook and proper assistants, 
and although my table is regularly fur- 
nished with every delicacy of the season, 
yet so depraved is my palate that every- 
thing I eat tastes of porridge.’”? His 
palate was less vitiated than his ima- 
gination. 


P«rt, meaning larboard or Jeft side, is 
an abbreviation of porta i/ timone (carry 
the helm). Porting arms is carrying 
them on the left hand. 

“ΤῸ heel to port’’ is to lean on the 
left side (Saxon, Ay/dan, to incline), ‘* To 
lurch to port’’ is to leap or rol] over on 
the left side (Welsh, //ercian). 

“ She gave a heel, and then a lurch to port, 
And, going down head-foremost, sunk in short.” 
Byrun: Don Juan. 

Port. Anair of music; martial music. 
Hence Tytler says, ‘‘I have never been 
able to meet with any of the ports here 


Port Royal Society 


990 


referred to’’ (Dissertation on Scotch 


Music), The word is Gaelic. 


Port Royal Society. In 1637, Le 
Maitre, a celebrated advocate, resigned 
the honour of being Cownseiller @ Etat, 
and with his brother De Sericourt conse- 
erated himself to the service of religion. 
The two brothers retired to a small house 
near the Port Royal of Paris, where in 
time they were joined by their three 
other brothers—De Sacy, De St. Elme, 
and De Valmont. Afterwards, being 
obliged to remove, they fixed their resi- 
dence a short distance trom the city, and 
called it Port Royal desChamps. These 
illustrious recluses were subsequently 
jomed by other distinguished persons, 
and the community was called the Society 
of Port Royal. 


Port Wine. 
wine, This renowned wine 
made— 
llons of rough cider, Ὁ 
llons of Bone Carlo wine, 
3 gailons of brandy. 

Porte (Zhe) or The Sublime Porte. 
The Ottoman Empire. In the Byzantine 
Empire, the gates of the palace were the 
place of assembly for judicial and legal 
administration. The word swhlime is 
French for “ lofty,’’ and the term was 
adopted naturally, as French has long 
been the language of diplomacy. The 
whole building contains four Turkish 
departments ot state—viz. (1) the Grand 
Vizierat ; (2) the Foreign Office; (3) the 
Interior; and (4) the State Council. 

“The government is to blame for not having 
done all in its power, like the Porte.’’— The 
Times, 

Porteous Riot. This notorious tu- 
mult took place at Edinburgh in Sep- 
tember, 1736. Porteous was captain of 
the city guard. At the examination ofa 
criminalnamed Wilson, Captain Porteous, 
fearing a rescue, ordered the guards to 
fire on the mob, which had become tu- 
multuous; in this discharge six persons 
were killed, and eleven wounded. Por- 
teous was tried for this attack and con- 
demned to death, but reprieved. The 
mob, at his reprieve, burst into the jail 
where he was confined, and, dragging 
him to the Grassmarket (the usual place 
of execution), hanged him by torchlight 
on a dyevr’s pole. 


Por'tia. A rich heiress in The JJer- 
chant of Venice, in love with Bassa‘nio. 
Her father had ordained that three 
caskets should be offered to all who 
sought her hand—one of gold, one of 
silver, and one of lead—with this 


Lord Pembroke’s port 
is thus 


Ὶ To make a hogs- 
j head of port, 


Posse 


proviso: he only who selected the casket 
which contained the portrait of the lady 
should possess her hand and fortune. 
(Shakespeare. ) 


Portland Stone. ‘So called from 
the island of Portland, where it is quar- 
ried. It hardens by exposure to the 
atmosphere. St. Paul’s Cathedral and 
Somerset House (London) are built of 
this stone. 


Portland Vase. A cinerary urn of 
transparent dark-blue glass, long in pos- 
session of the Barberini family. In 1770 
it was purchased by Sir William Hamil- 
ton, for 1,000 guineas, and came after- 
wards into the possession of the Duchess 
of Portland. In 1810, the Duke of Port- 
land, one of the trustees of the British 
Museum, allowed it to be placed in that 
institution for exhibition, William Lloyd, 
in 1845, dashed it to pieces ; it has since 
been carefully repaired, but is not now 
shown to the public. It is ten inches 
high, and six in diameter at the broadest 
part. 

Portmanteau Word (1). A word, 
like post, which contains several mean- 
ings packed together ; as, post (a stake), 
post for letters, post paper, slow as a 
post, fast as a post, post-horses, and so 
on. 

Portobello Arms. A _ public-house 
sign. The Jirror says: “ In 1739, after 
the capture of Portobello, Admiral 
Vernon’s portrait dangled from every 
sign-post, and he may figuratively be 
said to have sold the ale, beer, porter, 
and purl of England for six years.’”? The 
Portobello Arms is a mere substitution 
for the admiral. 


Portso’ken Ward (London). The 
soken or franchise at the port or gate. It 
was formerly a guild called the ‘‘ English 
Knighten Guild,’”’ because it was given 
by King Edgar to thirteen knights for 
services done by them. (See KNIGHTEN- 
GUILD.) 


Portugue’se (3 syl.). A native of 
Portugal, the language of Portugal, per- 
taining to Portugal, etc.; as Camocns 
was a Portuguese, and wrote in Portu- 
guese. 


Po’ser. The bishop’s examining 
chaplain ; the examiner at Eton for the 
King’s College fellowship. (Welsh, 
posiaw, to examine; French, poser ; 
Latin, pono.) Hence, a puzzling ques- 
tion. 

Posse. 4 whole posse of men. A large 
number; acrowd. (See next article.) 


Posse Comitatus 1000 Pot 
Posse Comita’tus (Latin). Power Poste Restante (French). To re- 
of the county. The whole force of the | main at the post till called for. In the 


county—that is, all the male members of 
a county over fifteen, who may be sum- 
moned by a sheriff to assist in preventing 
a riot, the rescue of prisoners, or other 
unlawful disorders. Clergymen, peers, 
and the infirm are exempt. 


Posset properly means a drink taken 
before going to bed; it was milk curdled 
with wine. 

“In his morning's draught... his concerves 
or cates ...and when he goeth to bedde his 
posset smoaking hot.”—Man in the Moone (1609), 

Post means placed. (Latin, positus.) 

ost. A piece of timber placed in the 
ground. 

A military post. A station where a 
man is placed, with instructions not to 
quit it without orders. 

An official postis where a man is placed 
in office. 

To post accounts is to place them under 
certain heads in methodical order. 
( Trench.) 

Post haste. Travelling by relays of 
horses, or where horses are placed on the 
road to expedite the journey. 

Post office. An office where letters are 
placed. 

Post paper. So called from its water- 

mark, a post-horn, or a post-boy blow- 
ing his horn. 
_ “The old original post [paper] with the stamp 
in the corner representing a post-boy riding for 
life, and twanging his horn.”—WMrs. Gaskell : Cran- 
Jord, chap. vy. 

Stiff as a post. That is, stiff [in the 
ground] like a gate-post. 

To run your head against a post. To 
go to work heedlessly and stupidly, or 
as if you had no eyes. 


Post Factum (Latin). 
has been committed. 


Post Meridian (Latin). After noon. 
“Twas post meridian half-past four, 
By signal I from Nancy parted.” 
Dibdin : Sea Songs. 

Post-mortem (Latin). After death; 
as a post-mortem examination for the 
purpose of ascertaining the cause of 
death, 


Post-mortem Degree (4). A degree 
after having failed at the poll. 

“ He had not even the merit of being a plodding 
man, and he finally took what used to be called a 
post-mortem degree. "—My Rectors, p. 68. 

Post Obit. An agreement to pay for 
a loan a larger sum of money, together 
with interest at death. (Latin post 
ob'itum, after the death of the person 
named in the bond.) 


After the act 


British post-office letters so addressed 
are kept one month, and then returned 
to the writer. 


Posted. Well posted up in the subject, 
Thoroughly informed. The metaphor 
is from posting up accounts, where one 
can see everything at a glance. 


Posteriori. Anargument a posterio'ri 
is one from effects to cause. Thus, to 
prove the existence of God α posterio’ri, 
we take the works of creation and show 
how they manifest power, wisdom, good- 
ness, and so on; and then we claim the 
inference that the maker of these things 
is powerful, wise, and good. Robinson 
Crusoe found the footprints of a man on 
the sand, and inferred that there must 
bera man on the island besides himself. 
(See PRIORI.) 

Posthumus (Je¢e’ona'tus). Husband 
of Imo’gen. Under the erroneous per- 
suasion of his wife’s infidelity, he plots 
her death, but his plot miscarries. 
(Shakespeare : Cymbeline.) 

Posting-Bills. Before the Great 
Fire the space for foot-passengers in 
London was defended by rails and posts ; 
the latter served for theatrical placards 
and general announcements, which were 
therefore called posters or posting-bills, 


Posy properly means a copy of verses 
presented with a bouquet. Itnow means 
the verses without the flowers, as the 
** nosy of a ring,’’ or the flowers without 
the verses, as a ‘* pretty posy.”’ 

“He could make anything in poetry, from the 
posy of aring to the chronicle of its most heroic 
wearer.’—Stedman : Victorian Poets (Landor), p. 47. 

Pot. This word, like “father,” 
“ mother,” ‘‘ daughter,”’ etc., is common 
to the whole A’rvan family. Greek, 
potér, a drinking-vessel ; Latin, poc-ulum 
—i.e. potaculum; Irish and Swedish, 
pota; Spanish, pote; German, pott ; 
Danish, potte ; French, Welsh, Anglo- 
Saxon, pott, etc. 

Gone to pot. Ruined, gone to the bad. 
The allusion is to the pot into which 
refuse metal is cast to be remelted, or 
to be discarded as waste. 

“Now and then a farm went to pot."—Dr. 
Arbuthnot. 

The pot calls the kettle black. This is 
said of a person who accuses another of 
faults committed by himself. The French 
say, ‘‘ The shovel mocks the poker” (La 
pelle se moque du fourgon). 

To betray the pot to the roses. To 
betray the rose pot—that is, the pot 


Pot-boilers 


1001 


which contains the rose-nobles. To 


“let the cat out of the bag.’’ (French, 
Decouvrir le pot aux roses.) 
Brazen and earthen pots, Gentlemen 


and artisans, rich and poor, men of mark 
and those unstamped. From the fable 
of the Brazen and Earthen Pots. 

“ Brazen and earthen pots float together in jux- 
taposition down the stream .of life.”"—Pall Mall 
Gazette. 

Pot-boilers. Articles written for 
periodicals or publishers, and pictures of 
small merit drawn or painted for the 
sake of earning daily bread, or making 
the pot supply needful food. 


Pot-luck. Come and take pot-luck 
with me. Come and take a family dinner 
at my house. The French pot au feu is 
the ordinary dinner of those who dine at 
home, 


Pot Paper. A Dutch paper ; so called 
from its bearing a pot as its water- 
mark, 


Pot-Pourri (French). <A mixture of 
dried sweet-smelling flower-petals and 
herbs preservedin a vase. Alsoa hotch- 
potch or olla podri‘da. In music, a 
medley of favourite tunes strung to- 
gether. (Sze Pasriccto.) 

Pourri means dead [flowers], and pot-pourri, 
strictly speaking, Is the vase containing the sweet 
mixture. 

Pot Valiant. Made courageous by 
liquor. 5 


Pot-de-Biére. 
Englishman. 


Pot of Hospitality (7112). The pot 
au feu which in Treland used to be shared 
with anyone who dropped in at meal- 
times, or required refreshment. 

“And the ‘pot of hospitality’ was set to boil 
upon the fire, and there was much mirth and 
heartiness and entertainment.’—Nineteenth Cen- 
tury, Oct., 1891, p. 643. 

Potage (Jean). The Jack Pudding 
of the French stage; very like the Ger- 
man ‘‘ Hanswurst,’’ the Dutch ‘‘ Pickel 
herringe,’’ and the Italian ‘* Macaro’ni.”’ 


Potato-bogle. So the Scotch call a 
scarecrow. The head of these bird- 
bogies being a big potato or a turnip. 


Potato-bury (4). A pit or trench 
for preserving potatoes for winter use, 
A turnip-bury is a similar pit for 
turnips. 


Pota'to-talk. (German, AKurtoffel 
gesprach.) That chit-chat common in 
Germany at the five o'clock tea-drinkings, 
when neighbours of the ‘‘ gentler sex ἢ 
take their work to the house of muster 


French slang for an 


and talk chiefly of the dainties of the 
table, their ingredients, admixture, and 
the methods of cooking them, 


Poteen (pron. pu-teen). Whisky that 
has not paid duty. (Irish poitin, diminu- 
tive of poite, a pot.) 

© Come and taste some good poteen 
That has not paid a rap to the Queen.” 

Pother or Bother. Mr. Garnett states 
this to be a Celtic word, and says it often 
occurs in the Irish translations of the 
Bible, in the sense of to be grieved or 
troubled in mind. (Greek, potheo, to 
regret. ) 

““ Friends, cried the umpire, cease your pother, 


The creature's neither one nor t’other.’ 
The Chameleon. 


Pothooks. The 77th Foot; so called 
because the two sevens resemble two 
pothooks. Now called the Second Batta- 
lion of the Middlesex Regiment, The 
first battalion is the old 57th. 


Pot'iphar’s Wife. According to the 
Koran her name was Zuleika, but some 
Arabian writers cal] her Rail. 


Pots. A Stock Exchange term, signi- 
fying the ‘‘ North Staffordshire Railway 
stock.’”? Of course, the word means 
‘“‘the potteries.” (See Stock EXcHANGE 
SLANG.) 


Potter. To go poking about, med- 
dling and making, in a listless, purpose- 
less manner, Pudder, podder, pother, 
bother, and puddle are varieties of the 
same word, To pudder is to stir with a 
puddering pole ; hence, to confuse, Lear 
says of the tempest—‘‘ May the great 
gods that keep this dreadful pudder o’er 
our head,’ meaning confusion. To 
puddle iron is to stir it about with a 
puddering-pole. 


Potwallopers, before the passing of 
the Reform Bill (1832), were those who 
claimed a vote because they had boiled 
their own pot in the parish for six 
months. (Saxon, weallan to boil; Dutch, 
opwallen ; our wallop.) 

Strictly speaking, a pot-walloper is one who 
wallops or boils his own pot-au-feu. 

Poult, a young turkey. Pullet, a 
young chicken. (Latin, pu/lus, the young 
of any animal; whence poultry, young 
domestic fowls; filly, a young horse; 
foal ; French, poule ; Italian, pollo, etc.) 


Pound. The unit of weight (Latin, 
pondus, weight) ; also cash to the value 
of twenty shillings sterling, because in 
the Carlovingian period the Roman 
pound (twelve ounces) of pure silver was 
coined into 240 silver pennies. The 


Pound of Flesh 


1002 


Pragmatic Sanction 


symbols £ and 7b. are for libra, the Latin 
fora pound, (See PENNy for PounD.) 


Pound of Flesh. The whole bar- 
gain, the exact terms of the agreement, 
the bond /iteratim et verbatim. The 
allusion is to Shylock, in The Merchant 
of Venice, who bargained with Antonio 
for a “ pound of flesh,’’ but was foiled in 
his suit by Portia, who said the bond was 
expressly a pound of flesh, and therefore 
(1) the Jew must cut the exact quantity, 
neither more nor less than a just pound ; 
and (2) in so doing he must not shed a 
drop of blood. 


Poundtext (/vter). An ‘indulged 
yastor’’ with the Covenanters’ army. 
(Sir Walter Scott: Old Mortality.) 


Pourceaugnac (Monsieur de) (pron. 
Poor-sone-yak). A pompous country 
gentleman who comes to Paris to marry 
Julie, but the lady has a lover of her 
own choice, and Monsieur is so mystified 
and played upon by Julie and her ani 
du ceur that he relinquishes his suit in 
despair. (JMoliére : Pourceaugnac.) 


Poussin. The British Poussin. 
Richard Cooper, painter and engraver, 
well known for his Jews of Windsor, 
(*-1806.) 

Gaspar Poussin, So Gaspar Dughet, 
the French painter, is called. (1613- 
1675.) 


Pouting Place of Princes (Ziv). 
Leicester Square is so called by Pennant, 
because George II., when Prince of 
Wales, having quarrelled with his father, 
retired to Leicester House; and his son 
Frederick, Prince of Wales, did the same, 
for the very same reason. 


Poverty ...Love. ‘‘ When poverty 
comes in at the door, love flies out at 
the window.’’ ‘“ Sine Cerere et Baccho 
friget Venus.” 

Powder. J’/l powder your jacket for 
you. A corruption of poudrer (to dust). 
(See Dust.) 

“Lo! in ‘powdur (dust] ye schall slepe, 

For out of powdur fyrst ye came.” 
Quoted by Halliwell wider “ Poudre.” 

Not worth powder and shot. ‘** Le jeu 
ne vaut pas la chandelle.’?’ The thing 
shot won’t pay the cost of powder and 
shot. 

Poyning’s Law or Statute of Dvrog- 
heda (pron. Dro'he-dah), An Act of 
Parliament made in Ireland in 1495 (10 
Henry VII., chap. 22), declaring all 
general statutes hitherto made in Eng- 
land to be in force in Ireland also. It 
received its name from Sir Edward 


Poyning, Lieutenant of Ireland at the 
time. 


P.P., Clerk of this Parish. The 
name given to a volume of memoirs, 
written by Dr. Arbuthnot, as a satire on 
Bishop Burnet’s Own Times. 


Premonstraten’sian Monks. (Sve 
PREMONSTRATENSIAN. ) 
Premuni're. <A barbarous word 


from the Latin premone'ri (to be fore- 
warned). The words of the writ begin 
“ Premunire facias A.B.’’—i.e. ‘ Cause 
A. B. to be forewarned,”’ to appear before 
us to answer the contempt wherewith he 
stands charged. If A. B. refuses to do 
so, he loses all civil rights, and before the 
reign of Elizabeth might have been slain 
by anyone with impunity. 


Pragmatic Sanction. 
Latin means a ‘‘decree or 
with a penalty attached,”’ or, in other 
words, a ‘‘ penal statute.”’ Pragmat'icus 
means ‘‘ relating to state affairs,’’ so that 
Pragmatie Sanction is a penal statute 
bearing on some important question of 
state. The term was first applied by the 
Romans to those statutes which related 
to their provinces. The French ap- 
plied the phrase to certain statutes 
which limited the jurisdiction of the 
Pope; but generally it is applied to’ an 
ordinance fixing the succession in a 
certain line. 

Pragmatic Sanction of Charles VII, 
(of France), 1438, defining and limiting 
the power of the Pope in France. By 
this ordinance the authority of a general 
council was declared superior to the 
dictum of the Pope; the clergy were 
forbidden to appeal to Rome on any 
point affecting the secular condition of 
the nation ; and the Roman pontiff was 
forbidden to appropriate a vacant bene- 
fice, or to appoint either bishop or parish 
priest. 

Pragmatic Sanction of St. Louis, 1268, 
forbade the court of Rome to levy taxes 
or collect subscriptions in France with- 
out the express sanction of the king. It 
also gave plaintiffs in the ecclesiastical 
courts the right to appeal to the civil 
courts. The ‘‘ Constitutions of Claren- 
don ’’ were to England what the ‘‘ Prag- 
matic Sanction ’’ was to France. 

Pragmatic Sanction of Germany, 1718. 
Whereby the succession of the empire 
was made hereditary in the female line, 
in order to transmit the crown to Maria 
Theresa, the daughter of Charles V1. 


This is emphatically the Pragmatic Sanction, 
unless some qualifying word or date is added, to 
restrict it to some other instrument. 


Sanctio in 
ordinance 


Prairie Fever 


1003 


Precious Stones 


Pragmatic Sanction of Naples, 1709, 
whereby Carlos II. of Spain ceded 
the succession to his third son in per- 
petuity. 


Prairie Fever (716). An enthusiastic 
love of prairie life, which seems to be 
part of our being, to strengthen our 
strength, invigorate our spirit, and en- 
dow us with new life. 

“What with gallops by day and the wild tales 
by the night watch-fires, 1 became intoxicated 
with the romance of my new life: I had caught 
the prairie fever.’—Muyne Reid: The Scalp Hunt- 
618, ch. iii. 

Prating Sophists. The doctors of 
the Sorbonne were so called by Budzus 
of Paris. (1467-1540.) 


Prayer-book Parade. The prom- 
enade in fashionable watering-places 
and other places of resort, after morning 
service on Sundays till luncheon or early 
dinner-time. 


Praying-wheels. It is said that the 
Buddhists pray by machinery; that they 
put prayers into a wheel, and unroll 
them by the length. This notion arises 
froma misconception. Saky’a-muni, the 
Buddha, is said to have ‘‘ turned the 
wheel of the law ’’—7.¢. to have preached 
Buddhism incessantly—we should say as 
a horse in a mill. 


Pre-Ad’amites. Before Adam was 
created. Isaac de la Peyreri maintained 
that only the Jews are descended from 
Adam, and that the Gentiles are de- 
scended from a race of men existing 
before Adam ; as the book of Genesis is 
the history of the Jews ouly, it does not 
concern itself with otherraces. (1655.) 


Pre-Raphaelites. A term intro- 
duced by Hunt and his friends, who 
wished to intimate that they preferred 
the simplicity and truthfulness of the 
painters who preceded Raphael. The 
term now signifies a very minute imita- 
tion of nature, brilliant colouring, and 
not much shadow. 


Preacher (712). Solomon, the author 
of Ecclesiastes (the Preacher). 

The glorious preacher. Saint John 
Chrysostom. (347-407.) 

The king of preachers. 
daloue. (1632-1704.) 

The little preacher. Samuel de Marets, 
Protestant controversialist. (1599-1663.) 


Louis Bour- 


Prebend, meaning a ‘“ clergyman 
attached to a prebendal stall,’ is a 
vulgarism. The prebend is the stipend 
given out of the revenues of the college 
or cathedral; he who enjoys the prebend 


is the prebendary. (Latin, prebeo, to 
give.) 

Preca’rious is what depends on our 
prayers or requests. A precarious tenure 
is one that depends solely on the will 
of the owner to concede to our prayer ; 
hence uncertain, not to be depended on. 
(Latin, precor.) 


Precep'tor. The superior of a pre- 
cep’tory was called by the Templars a 
Knight Preceptor; a ‘‘Grand Preceptor”’ 
was the head of all the preceptories, 
or houses of the Knights Templars, in 
au entire province, the three ot highest 
rank being the Grand Preceptors of Je- 
rusalem, Tripolis, and Antioch. Houses 
of these knights which were not pre- 
ceptories were called conumandcrics. 


Précieuses Ridicules (in Molicre’s 
comedy so called). Aminte and Pol- 
ixéne, who assume the airs of the Hotel 
de Rambouillet, a coterie of savants of 
both sexes in the seventeenth century. 
The members of this society were termed 
précieuses—i.e, *‘ persons of distinguished 
merit ’?’—and the précieuses ridicules 
means a ridiculous apeing of their ways 
and manners. 


Precio’sa. The heroine of Long- 
fellow’s Spanish Student, threatened with 
the vengeance of the Inquisition. 


Precious Stones. (1) Lach month, 
according to the Poles, is under the in- 
fluence of a precious stone :— 


January Garnet ‘onstancy. 
February .- Amethy3t Sincerity. 
March Bloodstone-- Cowruge. 
April..- Diamond Tnnocence. 
May -- Emerald Success in love. 
June .- Agate Health and long life. 
July .- Cornelian Content. 
August Sardonyx Conjugal felicity. 
September-- Chrysolite .. Antidoteto madness. 
October - Opal Tope. 

| November.- Topaz _ Fidelity. 
December -- Turquoise Prosperity. 


(2) In relation to the signs of the 
Zodiac -— 


Aries” .- Ruby. Libra .. Jacinth 
Taurus -- Topaz. | Seerpio - Agate. 
Gemini -- Carbuncle. | Sagittarius .. Amethyst. 
Cancer -- Emerald. | Capricornus’ Beryl. 
Leo -- Sapphire. | Aquarius - Onyx, 
Virgo -- Diamond. Pisces... ἐν Jasper, 
(8) In relation to the planets :-— 
Saturn Turquoise 1.6 τ. 
Jupiter Cornelian Tin, 
Mars -- Emerald Tron, 
Sun Diamond Gold. 
Venus Amethyst Copper. 
Mercury Loadstone Quicksilver. 
Moon Crystal Silver. 


* The ancients divided precious stones 
into maleand female. The darker stones 
were called the male, and the light ones 
were called the females. Male sapphires 


Precocious 


1004 


Prester John 


approach indigo in colour, but the 
female ones are sky-blue. Theophartos 
mentions the distinction. 


Precocious means ripened by the sun 
before it has attained its full growth ; 
premature; a development of mind or 
body beyond one’s age. (Latin, pre 
coquo.) 

“Many precocious trees. and such as have their 
spring in winter, may be found,’—Brown. 

Prel'ate means simply a man pre- 
ferred, a man promoted to an ecclesi- 
astical office which gives him jurisdic- 
tion over other clergymen. Cardinals, 
bishops, abbots, and archdeacons were 
at one time so called, but the term is re- 
stricted in the Protestant Church to 
bishops. (Latin, prefero, prelatus.) 


Preliminary Canter (4). Meta- 
phorically, means something which pre- 
cedes the real business in hand. The 
reference is to the preliminary canter of 
horses before the race itself begins. 

“The real business of the sessions commenced 
last night.... Everything that has preceded 
the introduction of this measure has been a pre- 
liminary canter.”—Newspaper paragraph, April 
14th, 1804, 

Premier Pas. (Ὁ nest que le premier 
pas qui coute. Pythagoras used to say, 
“The beginning is halt the whole.’’ 

“TneYpe Dimidium facti est cepisse.”’"—Ausonius. 

“Dinidium facti, qui coepit, habet.”"—Horuce. 

* Well begun is half done.” 

" The reverse of these proverbs is: 
“ (est le plus difficile que @écorcher la 
queue.”’ 

Premonstraten’sian or Norbertine 
Order. Founded in the twelfth century 
by St. Norbert, who obtained permission, 
in 1120, to found a cloister in the diocese 
of Laon, in France. A spot was pointed 
out to him in a vision, and he termed the 
spot Pré Montré or Pratum Monstra' ten 
(the meadow pointed out). The order 
might be called the reformed Augustine, 
or the White canons of the rule of St. 
Augustine. 


Prendre un Rat par la Queue. To 
pick a pocket. This proverb is very old 
—it was popular in the reign of Louis 
XIII. 

Prepense (2 syl.). Malice prepense 
is malice designed or before deliberated. 
(Latin, pre pensus.) 

Prepos'terous means ‘‘ the cart be- 


fore the horse.’? (Latin, pre posterus, 
the first last and the last first.) 


Presbyterian. (See BLUE.) 


Prescott. A waistcoat. Rhyming 
slang. (See CHIVY.) 


Pres'ents. <Mvnow all men by these 
presents—t.e, by the writings or docu- 
ments now present. (Latin, per presentes, 
by the [writings] present.) 


Preserver [Soté]. Ptolemy I. of 
Egypt was called Soter by the Rhodians, 
because he compelled Deme'’trios to raise 
the siege of Rhodes. (B.c. 367, 323-285.) 


Press-money and Press-men do not 
mean money given to inpress men into 
the service and men so impressed; but 
ready money, and men ready for service. 
When a recruit has received the money, 
he binds himself to be ready for service 
whenever his attendance is required. 
Similarly, a press-gang is a gang to get 
ready men, (Old French prest, now 
prét ; Italian presto.) 


Prester John, according to Mande- 
ville, a lineal descendant of Ogier the 
Dane. This Ogier penetrated into the 
north of India, with fifteen barons of 
his own country, among whom he divided 
the land. John was made sovereign of 
Teneduc, and was called Prester because 
he converted the natives. Another tra- 
dition says he had seventy kings for his 
vassals, and was seen by his subjects 
only three times in a year. In Mach 
Ado about Nothing, Benedick says :— 

“JT will fetch you a tooth-picker from the 
farthest inch of Asia; bring you the length of 
Prester John's foot: fetch you a hair off the great 
Cham’‘s beard... rather than hold three words’ 
conference with this harpy,’’"—Act ii. 1. 

Prester John (in Orlando Furioso, bk. 
xvii.), called by his subjects Sena’pus, 
King of Ethiopia. He was blind. Though 
the richest monarch of the world, he 
pined ‘‘in plenty’s lap with endless 
famine,’’ for whenever his table was 
spread hell-born harpies flew away with 
the food. This was in punishment of 
his great pride and impiety in wishing 
to add Paradise to his dominion. The 
plague was to cease ‘‘ when a stranger 
came to his kingdom on a winged horse.”’ 
Astolpho came on his flying griffin, and 
with his magic horn chased the harpies 
into Cocy’tus. The king sent 100,000 
Nubians to the aid of Charlemagne ; they 
were provided with horses by Astolpho, 
who threw stones into the air, which 
became steeds fully equipped (bk. xviii.) 
and were transported to France by As- 
tolpho, who filled his hands with leaves, 
which he cast into the sea, and they in- 
stantly became ships (bk. xix.). When 
Agramant was dead, the Nubians were 
sent back to their country, and the ships 
turned to leaves and the horses to stones 
again, 


Prestige 


1005 


Pride 


Prestige. This word has a strangely 
metamorphosed meaning. The Latin 
prestig’i@ means jug eling tricks, hence 
prestidig' itatew" (French), one who jug- 
gles with his fingers. We use the word 
for that favourable impression which 
results from good antecedents. The his- 
tory of the change is this : Juggling tricks 
were once considered a sort of enchant- 
ment; to enchant is to charm, and to 
charm is to win the heart. 


Presto. Quick. A name given to 
Swift by the Duchess of Shrew sbury, a 
foreigner. Of course, the pun is obvious: 
presto means swift (or quick). 


Preston and his Mastiffs. 70 
oppose Preston and his mastiffs is to be 
foolhardy, to resist what is irresistible. 
Christopher Preston established the Bear 
Garden at Hockley-in-the-Hole in the 
time of Charles 11, The Bible says he 
that employs the sword ‘‘shall perish 
by the sword,’’ and Preston was killed 
in 1709 by one of his own bears, 


«.. das good oppose 
My self to Preston and his mastiffs loose,’ 
—— Oldham: 111. Satyr of Juve ae 
Pretender. The Old Pretender. 


James Εἰ. E. Stuart, son of James II, 

(1688-1766.) 

The Young Pretender. Charles Edward 
Stuart, son of the ‘‘Old Pretender.”’ 
(1720- 1788. ) 

“ God bless the king, I mean the faith’s defender ; 
God bless—no harm in blessing—the Pretender. 
Who that Pretender is. and who is king— 

God bless us all !—that’s quite another thing.” 
xe John Byrom. 

Pretenders. 'Tanyoxarkés, in the time 
of Camby’ses, King of Persia, pretended 
to be Smerdis; but one of his wives felt 
his head while he was asleep, and dis- 
covered that he had no ears. 

Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck, 
in the reign of Henry VIII. 

Otrefief, a monk, pretended to be 
Demetrius, younger son of Czar Ivan 
Basilowitz II., murdered by Boris in 
1598. In 1605 Demetrius ‘‘ the False ”’ 
became Czar, but was killed at Moscow 
the year following, in an insurrection. 


Pre'text. A pretence. From the 
Latin preterta, a dress embroidered in 
the frontworn bythe Roman magistrates, 
priest’, and children of the aristocracy 
between the age of thirteen ard seven- 
teen. The » etexta’te were dramas in 
which actors personated those who wore 
the preetexta ; hence persons who pre- 
tend to be what they are not. 


Prettyman (Prizce), who figures 
sometimes as a fisherman’s son, and 


sometimes as a prince, to gain the heart 
of Cloris. (Buckingham : The Rehear sal.) 


Prevarica’tion. The Latin word 
varico is to straddle, and prevaricor, to 
go zigzag or crooked. The verb, says 
Pliny, was first applied to men who 
ploughed crooked ridges, and afterwards 
to men who gave crooked answers in the 
law courts, or deviated from the straight 
line of truth. (See DELIRIUM.) 


Prevent. Precede, anticipate. (Latin 
pre-venio, to go before.) And as what 
goes before us may hinder us, so prevent 
means to hinder or keep back. 

“My eyes prevent the night watches.”—Psalm 
ΟΧΊΧ. 148. 


“Prevent us,O Lord,in all our doings.’“—Com- 
mon Prayer Book. 


Previous Question. (Sve QUES- 
TION. ) 
Priam. King of Troy when that 


city was sacked by the allied Greeks. 
His wife’s name was Hec’uba ; she was 
the mother of nineteen children, the 
eldest of whom was Hector. When the 
gates of Troy were thrown open by the 
Greeks concealed in the Wooden Horse, 
Pyrrhos, the son of Achilles, slew the 
aged Priam. (See JZomer’s Iliad and 
Virgil's ine id.) 

Priiamond. Son of Ag’apé, a fairy. 
He was very daring, and fought on foot 
with battle-axe and spear. He wasslain 
by Cam’balo. (Spenser: Facrie Queene, 
bk. iy.) (See DIaAMonpD.) 


Pria’pus, in classical mythology, is 
a hideous, sensual, disgusting deity, the 
impersonation of the principle of fertility. 
(See BAAL PEOR, etc.) 


Prick-eared. So the Roundheads 
were called, because they covered their 
heads with a black skull-cap drawn down 
tight, leaving the ears exposed. 


Prick the Garter. (Sve Fast AnD 
Loose.) 


Pride, meaning ostentation, finery, 
or that which persons are proud of. 
Spenser | talks of ‘‘lofty trees yclad in 
summer’s pride’’ (verdure). Pope, of a 
‘sword whose ivory sheath [was] in- 
wrought with envious pride”’ (ornae 
mentation) ; and in this sense the word 
is used by Jacques in that celebrated 
passage— 


“ Why, who cries out on pride [dress] 

That can therein tax any private party ? 

What woman in the city do I name 

When that I say ‘ the city woman bears 

The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders’ ? 
What is he of baser function 

That says his bravery [finery] is not of ΤΥ 
cost?” Shakespeare: As You Like It, ii. 1. 


Pride of the Morning 


1006 


Primrose 


Fly pride, says the peacock, eae a δὶ 
for pride. (Shakespeare : 
Errors, iv. 3.) The pot calling the kettle 
“black face.” 

Sir Pride. First a drayman, then a 
colonel in the Parliamentary army, 
(Butler : Hudibras.) 


Pride of the Morning. That early 
mist or shower which promises a fine 
day. The Morning is too proud to come 
out in her glory all ‘at once—or the proud 
beauty being thwarted weeps and pouts 
awhile. Keble uses the phrase in a 
different sense when he says :— 

“ Pride of the dewy Morning, 
The swain’s experienced eye 
From thee takes timely warning, 
Nor trusts the gorgeous sky.” 
Keble: 25th Sunday after Trinity. 

Pride’s Purge. The Long Parlia- 
ment, not proving itself willing to con- 
demn Charles I. . was purged of its unruly 
members by Colonel Pride, who entered 
the House with two regiments of soldiers, 
imprisoned sixty members, droveone hun- 
dred and sixty out into the streets, and 
lett only sixty of the most complaisant. 


Pridwen. The name of Prince 
Arthur’s shield. 
“ He henge an his sweore [neck] acne sceld deore, 

His nome on Brutisc [in British] Pridwen ik aten 

{called].” 
Layamon: Brut (twelfth century). 

Pridwin. Same as pridwen. This 
shield had represented on it a picture 
of the Virgin. 


“The temper of his sword, the = ied ‘Excaliber,’ 
The bigness and the length of ‘Rone, his noble 
spear. 
With *Pridwin, his sreat shield, and what the 
proof could bear.” Drayton, 
Priest ... Knight. J wonld rather 
walk with Sir Priest than Sir Knight. I 
prefer peace to strife. 


Priest of the Blue-bag. A bar- 
rister. A blue-bag is a cant name fora 
barrister. (Sce BARRISTER’S BAG.) 

“ He [0°F lynn] had twice pleaded his own canse, 
without he Ip of attor ney,and showed himself as 
practised in every law quibble ... a8 if he had 
heen a regularly ordained priest of the blue bag.” 
—C. Kingsley : ‘Alton Locke, chap. Xx. 

Prig. A knavish beggar in the Beggar's 
Bush, by Beaumont and Fletcher. 

Priqg. A coxcomb, a conceited person. 
Probably the Anglo- Saxon pryt or pryd, 

Prig- lo filch or steal. Also a pick- 
pocket or thief. The clown calls Autol’- 
ycus a ‘‘ prig that haunts wakes, fairs, 
and bear - baitings.” (Shakespeare . 
Winter's Tale, iv. 3.) 


In Scotch, to pria means to cheapen, or haggle 
over the price asked ; priggin means cheapening. 


Prima Donna (Italian). A first-class 


lady ; applied to public singers. 


Comedy of 


| 
| 


Prima Facie (Latin). At first sight. 
A prima facie case is a case or statement 
which, without minute examination into 
its merits, seems plausible and correct. 


If would be easy to make out a strong prima 


fucie case. but I should advise the more cautious 


policy of audi allerain partem. 


Primary Colours. (‘ce CoLouRs.) 


Prime (1syl.). In the Catholic Church 
the first canonical hour after lauds. 
Milton terms sunrise ‘‘ that sweet hour 
of prime.” (Paradise Lost, bk. v. 170.) 


_“Allnight long ... came the sound of chant- 


ing... us the monks sang the service of matins, 
lauds, and priine.”—Shorthouse: John Inglesant, 


chap. i. p. 10. 


Primed. Full and ready to deliver 
aspeech. We say of a man whose head 
is full of his subject, ‘‘ He is primed to 
the muzzle.’’ Of course, the allusion 
is to firearms. 


Primero. A game at cards. 
“T left him at primero with the | Duke of 

Suffolk.’—Shakespeare: Henry VIIL, i. 
*“ Four cards were dealt to each ae er, the 


princip al groups being flush. prime, and point. 
Flush was the same as in Spahr prime was one 
card of each suit, and point was reckoned as in 
* piguet.’ “Cyclopedia of Games, 1». 270. 


Primitive Fathers (7116). The five 
Christian fathers supposed to be con- 
temporary with the Apostles: viz. 
Clement of Rome (30-102) ; Barnabas, 
cousin of Mark the Evangelist, and 
schoolfellow of Paul the Apostle; 
Hermas, author of The Shepherd ; 
Tenatius, martyred a.D. 115; and Poly- 
carp (85-169). 

The first two Epistles to the Corinthians are 
probably by Clement Romanus. buf everything 

else ascribed to him is undoubtedly spurious. 

The epistle ascrihed to Barnabas is of very 
doubtful authenticity. 

Hermas.—It is very doubtful whether this is a 
proper name at all; and. if a proper name, many 
think it is a Herinas in the second century, 
brother of Pius I. : 

Polyearp, some say, was a pupil of John the 
Evangelist, by whom he was made Bishop of 
Smyrna, addressed in the Revelation ; but if the 
Revelation was written in 96, Polycar p was not 
eleven years old at the time, ‘and could not pos- 
sibly have beena bishop. It is extremely doubt- 
ful whether he knew the Evangelist at all, and 
certainly he did not know either the Fourth 
Gospel or the Book of the Revelation. 


Primrose ((corge). Son of the 
worthy Vicar of Wakefield. He went to 
Amsterdam to teach the people English, 
but forgot that he could not do so till 
he knew something of Dutch himself. 
(Goldsmith : Viear of Wakefield.) 

Moses Primrose. Brother of the above, 
noted for giving in barter a good horse 
for a gross of worthless green spectacles 
with copper rims and shagreen cases. 
(Goldsmith : Vicar of Wakefield.) 

Mrs. Deborah Primrose. Mother of the, 


Primrose 


above; noted for her motherly vanity, 
her skill in housewifery, and her desire 
to be genteel. Her wedding gown is a 
standing simile for things that ‘‘ wear 
well.’’ Her daughters’ names are Olivia 
and Sophia, (Goldsmith: Vicar of IW ake- 
Jield.) 

The Rev. Dr. Primrose. Husband of 
Mrs. Deborah, and Vicar of Wakefield. 
As simple-minded and unskilled in the 
world as Goldsmith himself, unaffectedly 
pious, and beloved by all who knew him. 
(Goldsmith: Vicar of Wakefield.) 


Primrose. A curious corruption of 
the French primeverole, Italian prim- 
everola, compounds of the Latin prima 
vera (first spring flower). Chaucer calls 
the word primirole, which is a contrac- 
tion of the Italian pirime’rola. The 
flower is no 7056 at all. 


Primum Mo’bile, in the Ptolema’ic 
system of astronomy, was the tenth (not 
ninth) sphere, supposed to revolve from 
east to west in twenty-four hours, carry- 
ing with it all the other spheres. The 
eleven spheres are: (1) Diana or the 
Moon, (2) Mercury, (3) Venus, (4) Apollo 
or the Sun, (5) Mars, (6) Jupiter, (7) 
Saturn, (8) the starry sphere or that of 
the fixed stars, (9) the crystalline, (10) 
the primum mo’bile, and (11) the em- 
pyre'an. Ptolemy himself acknowledged 
only the first nine ; the two latter were 
devised by his disciples. The motion of 
the crystalline, according to this system, 
causes the precession of the equinoxes, 
its axis being that of the ecliptic. The 
motion of the primum mobile produces 
the alternation of day and night; its 
axis is that of the equator, and its ex- 
tremities the poles of the heavens. 

“They pass the planets seven, and pass the 
*fixed’ (starry sphere], 
And that crystal’/lin sphere .. . and that‘ First- 
Moved.” Milton: Paradise Lest, 111. 482. 

Primum Mobile is figuratively applied 
to that machine which communicates 
motion to several others ; 
persons and ideas suggestive of com- 
plicated systems. Socratés was the 
primum mobile of the Dialectic, Megaric, 
Cyrena‘ic, aud Cynic systems of philo- 
sophy. 

Primus, The archbishop, or rather 
“‘presiding bishop,’? of the Episcopal 
Church of Scotland. He is elected by 
the other six bishops, and presides in 
Convocation, or meetings relative to 
church matters. 


Prince. The Latin prin’cipés formed 
one of the great divisions of the Roman 
infantry; so called because they were 


1007 


Sinery. 


Printer’s Devil 


originally the first to begin the fight. 
After the Hasta’ti were instituted, this 
privilege was transferred to the new 
division. 

Prince, (See BLAck.) 

Prince of alchemy. Rudolph I1., 
Emperor of Germany, also called The 
German Hermes Trismegistus. 

Prince of gossips. Samuel Pepys, 
noted for his gossiping Diary, commenc- 
ing January Ist, 1659, and continued for 
nine years. (1632-1703.) 

Prince of grammarians. 
MARIANS.) 

Prince of Peace. 
ix. 6). 

Prince of the Power of the Air. Satan 
(Eph. 1. 2). 

Prince of the vegetable kingdom. So 
Linneus calls the palm-tree. 


Prince of Wales (Ziv). This title 
arose thus: When Edward I. subdued 
Wales, he promised the Welsh, if they 
would lay down their arms, that he 
would give them a native prince. His 
queen having given birth to a son in 
Wales, the new-born child was entitled 
Edward, Prince of Wales; and ever 
since then the eldest son of the British 
sovereign has retained the title. 

Prince of Wales Dragoon Guards. The 
8rd Dragoon Guards. 

Prince Rupert’s Drops. Drops of 
molten glass, consolidated by falling 
into water. Their form is that of a tad- 
pole. The thick end may be hammered 
pretty smartly without its breaking, but 
if the smallest portion of the thin end 
is nipped off, the whole flies into fine 
dust with explosive violence. These 
toys, if not invented by Prince Rupert, 
were introduced by him into England. 

Prince’s Peers. A term of contempt 


applied to peers of low birth. The son 
of Charles VII. of France (afterwards 


(See GRam- 


The Messiah (Isaiah 


| Louis XI.), in order to weaken the in- 
aud also to | 


fluence of the aristocracy, created a host 
of riff-raff peers, such as tradesmen, 
farmers, and mechanics, who were tools 
in his hands. 

Princox or Princocks. (Probably 
from prime and cock.) Capulet calls 
Tybalt a princor, or wilful spoilt boy. 
(Shakespeare - Romeo and Juliet.) 

Prink. She was prinked in all her 
Adorned. Prink and prank. 
Dutch pronken, to make a show; Ger- 
man prangen, Danish prange, Swedish 
prunka. 

Printer’s Devil. The newest ap- 
prentice lad in the press-room, whose 


Printers’ Marks 


duty it is to run errands, and to help the 
pressmen. 

Printing used to be called the Black 
Art, and the boys who assisted the press- 
men were called imps. (See wrder DEVIL.) 


Printers’ Marks. 

? is 1—that is, the first and last letters 
of questio (question), 

!is}. Jo in Latin is the interjection 
of joy. 

δ isa Greek p (π), the initial letter of 
paragraph. 

* is used by the Greek grammarians 
to arrest attention to something striking 
(asterisk or star). 

+ is used by the Greek grammarians to 
indicate something objectionable (obelisk 
or dagger). 

(See MARKS IN GRAMMAR.) 


Printing. (Sce Em.) 

Father of English printing. William 
Caxton (1412-1491). 

It is a mistake to suppose that 
Caxton (1471) was the first printer in 
England. <A book has been accidentally 
discovered with the date 1468 (Oxford). 
The Rev. T. Wilson says, ‘‘ The press at 
Oxford existed ten years before there 
was any press in Europe, except those at 
Haarlem and Mentz. The person who 
set up the Oxford press was Corsellis.”’ 


Prio’ri. An argument @ priori is one 
from cause to effect. To prove the ex- 
istence of God @ priori, you must show 
that every other hypoth’esis is more un- 
likely, and therefore this hypothesis is 
the most likely. All mathematical proofs 
are of this kind. (See PosTERIORI. ) 


Priscian’s Head. 70 break Priscian’s 
head (in Latin, “ Diminuére Priscia’ ni 
cap'ut’’). To violate the rules of gram- 
mar. Priscian was a great grammarian 
of the fifth century, whose name is 
almost synonymous with grammar. 

“Priscian’s head is often bruised without re- 
morse.” — P. Thompson. 

“ And held no sin so deeply red 
As that of breaking Priscian’s head.” 
Rutler: Hudibras, pt. 11. 2. 

Priscill/ianists. Followers of Pris- 
cillian, a Spaniard; an heretical sect 
which sprang up in Spain in the fourth 
century. They were a branch of the 
Manicheeans. 


Prisoner at the Bar. ‘The prisoner 
in the dock, who is on his trial ; so called 
because anciently he stood at the bar 
which separated the barristers from the 
common pleaders. 


Prisoner of Chillon’. Francois de 
Bonnivard, a Frenchman confined for 


1008 


Privy Seal 


six years in the dungeon of the Chateau 
de Chillon, by Charles III. of Savoy. 
Lord Byron, in his poem so called, has 
welded together this incident with 
Dante’s Count Ugoli'no. (See CHILLON.) 


Pri'thu. The favourite hero of the 
Indian Purdinas. Vena having been 
slain for his wickedness, and leaving no 
offspring, the saints rubbed his right arm, 
and the friction brought forth Prithu. 
Being told that the earth had suspended 
for a time its fertility, Prithu went forth 
to punish it, and the Earth, under the 
form of a cow, fled at his approach ; but 
being unable to escape, promised that in 
future ‘‘seed-time and harvest should 
never fail.”’ 


Priuli. Senator of Venice, noted for 
his unbending pride, and his unnatural 
harshness to his daughter Belvide'ra. 
(Otway : Venice Preserved.) 

Privolvans’. The antagonists of the 
Subvolvans, in 8. Butler’s satirical poem 
called The Elephant in the Moon. 

“ These,silly ranting Privolvans 
Have every summer their campaigns, 
And muster like the warlike sons 
Of Rawhead and of Bloodybones.” 
V. 85. etc. 

Privy Council. The council chosen 
by the sovereign to administer public 
affairs, It consists of the Royal Family, 
the two Primates, the Bishop of London, 
the great officers of State, the Lord 
Chancellor and Judges of the Courts of 
Equity, the Chief Justices of the Courts 
of Common Law, the Judge Advocate, 
some of the Puisne Judges, the Speaker 
of the House of Commons, the Ambassa- 
dors, Governors of Colonies, Commander- 
in-Chief, Master-General of the Ord- 
nance, First Lord of the Admiralty, 
Vice-President of the Board of Trade, 
Paymaster of the Forces, President of 
the Poor-law Board, etc. etc. ; a com- 
mittee of which forms the Cabinet or 
Ministry. The number of neither the 
Privy Council nor Cabinet is fixed, but 
the latter generally includes about fifteen 
or sixteen gentlemen specially qualified 
to advise on different departments of 
state business. Much of the business of 
the Privy Councilis performed by Boards 
or subdivisions, as the Board of Trade, 
the Board of Quarantine, the Committee 
of Council on Education, etc. 


Privy Seal. The seal which the 
sovereign uses in proof of assent to a 
document. Inmatters of minor import- 
ance it is sufficient to pass the privy seal, 
but instruments of greater moment must 
have the great seal also. 


Pro and Con 


1009 


Profound 


Pro and Con. (Latin). For and 


against. ‘‘Con.’’ is a contraction of 
contra, 
Pro Tanto. As an instalment, good 


enough as far as it goes, but not final ; 
for what it is worth. 

“T heard Mr, Parnell accept the Bill of 1580 5 a 
mesure that would close the differences between 
the two countries ; but since then he stated that 
he had accepted it asa pro tanto measure. ... It 
was a parliamentary bet, and he hoped to make 
future amendments on it.’—Mr. Chamberlain's 
speech, April 10th, 1893. 

Pro Tem’pore (3syl.). Temporarily ; 
for the time being, till something is 
permanently settled. Contracted into 
pro tem. 

Probate of a Will. A certified copy 
of a will by an officer whose duty it is to 
attest it. The original is retained in the 
court registry, and executors act on the 
proved copy. Anyone may see an official 
copy of any will at the registry office on 
payment of a shilling. 


Probe. J ist probe that matter to 
the bottom—must narrowly examine into 
it. The allusion is to a surgeon probing 
a wound, or searching for some extrane- 
ous substance in the body. 


Prov’ole (3 syl.), as applied to Jesus 
Christ, is this : that He was divine only 
because He was divinely begotten; in 
fact, He was a shoot of the divine stem, 
This heterodox notion was combated by 
Treneus, but was subsequently revived 
by Monta’nusand Tertullian. The word 
is properly applied to the process of a 
bone—that is, a bone growing out of a 
normal bone, (Greek, pro-dallo.) 


Proceés-Verbal. A minute and 
official statement of some fact. 

“We (says the procés-verbal) asked him what 
use he had made of the pistol [i.e. We, says the 
official report, etc.]."—The Times (Law Report). 

Procession of the Black Breeches. 
This is the heading of a chapter in vol. 
11. of Carlyle’s French Revolution. The 
chapter contains a description of the 
mob procession, headed by Santerre 
carrying a pair of black satin breeches 
on a pole. The mob forced its way into 
the Tuileries on June 20th, 1792, and 
presented the king (Louis XVI.) with the 
bonnet rouge and a tricolour cockade. 


Proclaim on the Housetop. To 
proclaim or make known to everyone ; to 
blab in public. Dr. Jahn says that the 
ancient Jews ‘‘ascended their roofs to 
announce anything to the multitude, to 
pray to God, and to perform sacrifices ”’ 
(Matt. x. 27). 


“No secret can escape being proclaimed from 
the housetop,”—London Review, 


64 


Proclivity. His proclivities are all 
evil. His tendencies or propensities have 
a wrong bias. The word means down- 
hill tendency. (Latin, proclivis,) 


Procris. Unerring as the dart of 
Procris. When Procris fled from Ceph’- 
alus out of shame, Diana gave her a dog 
that never failed to secure its prey, and 
a dart which not only never missed aim, 
but which always returned of its own 
accord to the shooter. (See CEPHALUS.) 


Procrustes’ Bed. Procrustes was 
a robber of Attica, who placed all who 
fell into his hands upon an iron bed. If 
they were longer than the bed, he cut 
off the redundant part; if shorter, he 
stretched them till they fitted it. Any 
attempt to reduce men to one standard, 
one way of thinking, or one way of 
acting, is called placing them on Pro- 
crustes’ bed, and the person who makes 
the attempt is called Procrustes. (Sce 
GIRDLE.) 

“Tyrant more cruel than Procrustes old, 
Who to his iron-hed by torture fits 
Their no}ler parts, the souls of suffering wits.” 
Mallet: Verbal Criticisin. 

Procrus'tean. Pertaining to Pro- 
erustes, and his mode of procedure. (See 
above.) 


Prodigal. Festus says the Romans 
called victims wholly consumed by fire 
prod'igeé hostie (victims prodigalised), 
and adds that those who waste their 
substance are therefore called prodigals, 
This derivation can hardly be considered 
correct. Prodigal is pro-ago or prod-igo 
(to drive forth), and persons who had 
spent all their patrimony were ‘‘ driven 
forth’? to be sold as slaves to their 
creditors. 

Prodigal (The). Albert VI., Duke of 
Austria, (1418-1463.) 


Prodigy. The prodigy of France. 
Guillaume Budé ; so called by Erasmus. 
(1467-1540.) 

The prodigy of learning. Samuel 
Hahnemann, the German, was so called 
by J. Paul Richter. (1755-1843.) 


Profane means literally before the 
temple (Latin, pro fanwmn). Those per- 
sons who came to the temple and were 
not initiated were called profane by the 
Romans. 


Pro’file (2 syl.) means shown by a 
thread. (Italian, profilo ; Latin, filo, 
a thread.) A profile is an outline. In 
sculpture or painting it means to give 
the contour or side-face. 

Profound (7c). Richard Middle- 
ton, theologian, ( * -1304.) 


Prog 1010 Proof Prints 
The Profound Doctor. Thomas Brad- Prome’thean. Capable of produc- 
warden, a schoolman. (Fourteenth | ing fire; pertaining to Prome’theus 
century.) (q.v.). 


Most Profound Doctor. 
Columna, a Sicilian schoolman. 
1510.) 

Prog. Food (connected with prod, 
and perhaps prov[ender]). Burke says, 
‘You are the lion, and I have been en- 
deavouring to prog [procure food] for 
you.”’ 


“ So saying, witha smile she left the rogue 
ΤῸ weave more lines of death, and plan for 
prog.” Dr. Wolcot : Spider and Fly. 


Pregn’e or Prok’ne. The swallow. 
(Sve NIGHTINGALE.) 
© As Progné or as Philome’la mourns . . 

That finds the nest by cruel bands dispoiled ;. . 


So Bradamant laments her absent knight.” ἢ 
Orlando Furioso, book XXiii. 


/Bgidius de 


(Died 


Progress. 170 report progress, in par- 
liamentary language, is to conclude for 
the night the business of a bill, and defer 
the consideration of all subsequent items 
thereof till the day nominated by the 
chief Minister of the Crown. 


Projection. Powder of projection, 
or the ‘‘ Philosopher’s Stone.’’ A powder 
supposed to have the virtue of changing 
baser metals into gold or silver. A little 
of this powder, being cast into molten 
metal of the baser sort, was to project 
from it pure gold or silver. Education 
may be called the true ‘f powder of pro- 
jection.”’ 


Proletaire (3 syl.). One of the 
rabble. Prolétaives in French means the 
lowest and poorest class in the commu- 
nity. Proletarian, mean or vulgar. The 
sixth class of Servius Tullius consisted 
of proletarit and the capite censi—i.e. 
breeders and human /eads. The prole- 
taries could not enter the army, but 
were useful as breeders of the race 
(proles). The capite censi were not en- 
rolled in the census by the value of their 
estates, but simply by their polls. 


Proleta'riat. 
PROLETAIRE.) 

“Traly has a clerical aristocracy, rich. idle, and 
corrupt ; and a clerical proletariat, needy and 
grossly ignorant.”—The Times. 

Prome’theus (3 syl.) made men of 
clay, and stole fire from heaven to ani- 
mate them. For this he was chained 
by Zeus to Mount Cau’casus, where an 
eagle preyed on his liver daily. The 
word means Forethought, and one of 
his brothers was Epime’theus or After- 
thought. 


“ Paster bound to Aaron’s charming eyes 
Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.” Ὁ 
Shakespeare: Titus Andronicus, ll. 1. 


Commonalty. (See 


_Prome'thean Fire. The vital prin- 
ciple; the fire with which Prometheus 
quickened into life his clay images. (See 
PROMETHEUS. ) 

“ T know not where is that Promethes ε 

That can thy life relume.” ae 
Shakespeare: Othello, v.2. 
Promethean Unguent (7.2). Made 
from a herb on which some of the blood 
of Prométheus (3 syl.) had fallen. Medéa 
gave J. ason some of this unguent, which 
rendered his body proof against fire and 
warlike instruments. 


Prome'theans. ‘The first invention 
which developed into Bryant and May’s 
‘‘satety matches.’? They were origin- 
ally made in 1805 by Chancel, a French 
chemist, who tipped cedar splints with 
paste of chlorate of potash and sugar. 
On dipping one of these matches into a 
little bottle containing asbestos wetted 
with sulphuric acid, it burst into flame 
on drawingitout. It wasnotintroduced 
into England till after the battle of 
Waterloo. (Sce Huey PErry.) 


Promise of Odin (7.2). The most 
binding of all promises to a Scandinavian. 
In making this promise the person passed 
his hand through a massive silver ring 
kept for the purpose ; or through a sacri- 
ficial stone, like that called the ‘‘ Circle 
of Stennis.” 

“JT will bind myself toyou... by the promise 
of Odin, the most sacred of our northern rites.”— 
Nir W. Scott: The Pirate, chap. xxii. 

Promised Land or Land of Pronise. 
Canaan; so called because God promised 
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob that their 
offspring should possess it. 


Prone’sia (in Orlando Furioso). One 
of Logistilla’s handmaids, famous for 
her wisdom. 


Proof. <A printed sheet to be ex- 
amined and approved before it is finally 
printed. The first proof is that which 
contains all the workman’s errors; when 
these are corrected the impression next 
taken is called a clean proof and is sub- 
mitted to the author; the final impres- 
sion, which is corrected by the reader ad 
unguem, is termed the press proof. 


Proof Prints. The first impressions 
of an engraving. India-proofs are those 
taken off on India-paper. Proofs before 
lettering are those taken off before the 
plate is sent to the writing engraver. 
After the proofs the orders of merit are 


Pro.’s 


letters are shaded with a black line ; (3) 
those in which some slight ornament is 
introduced into the letters; (4) those 
in which the letters are filled up quite 
black. 


Proof Spirit. A mixture of equal 
parts (by weight) of alcohol and water, 
The proof of spirit consists in little bub- 
bles or beads which appear on the top of 
the liquor after agitation. When any 
mixture has more alcohol than water it 
is called over proof, ‘and when less it is 
termed wnder proot. 


Prooshan Blue (J/y). A term of 
great endearment. After the battle of 
Waterloo the Prussians were immensely 
popular in England, and in connection 
with the Loyal True Blue Club gave rise 
to the toasts, ‘* The True Blue”’ and the 
“ Prussian Blue.’? Sam Weller addresses 
his father as ‘‘ Vell, my Prooshan Blue.”’ 


Propagan’da. The name given to 
the ‘‘ congregation ”’ de propaganda fide, 
established at Rome by Gregory XV., in 
1622, for propagating throughout the 
world the Roman Catholic religion. Any 
institution for making religious or politi- 
cal proselytes. 


Proper Names used as Common 
Nouns. 

Crebillon = terrible. 

Dimas = imazinative 

Fénelon = fabulous. 

Le Sage = humorous. 

Moliére = comic. 

Montaigne = thoughtful, 

Rabelais = unclean. 

tousscau = amorous, 

Victor Hugo = incendiary. 

Zola = licentious ; Z/aesque, in the manner or 
Style of Zola, the French novelist. 


Property Plot (7Z/ic), in theatrical 
language, means a list of all the ‘“ pro- 
perties’’ or articles which will be re- 
quired in the play produced. Such as 
the bell, when Macbeth says, ‘‘ The bell 
invites me; ἢ the knock, when it is said, 
“* Heard you that knocking ?’’ tables, 
chairs, banquets, tankards, etc., etc. 


Prophesy upon Velvet (170). To 
prophesy what is already a known fact. 
Thus, the issue of a battle flashed to an 
individual may, by some chance, get to 
the knowledge of a ‘“sibyl,’’ who may 
securely prophesy the issue to others; 
but such a prediction would be a ‘‘ pro- 
phecy on velvet;”’ it goes on velvet 
slippers without fear of stumbling. 


“Tf one of those three had spoken the news over 
again... the old lady [or sibyl] prophesies upon 
velvet.”—Sir W. Scott; The Pirate, ch. xxi. 


Prophet (7c). Mahomet isso called. 
(570-632.) 

The Koran says there have been 
200,000 prophets, only six of whom have 
brought new laws or dispensations; 
Adam, Nouh, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, 
and Mahomet. 

The Prophet. Jo’achim, Abbot of 
Fio're. (1130-1202.) 

Prophet of the Syrians, 
Syrus (4th century). 

The Great Prophets. Isaiah, Jeremiah, 
Ezekiel, and Daniel; so called because 
their writings are more extensive than 
the prophecies of the other twelve. 

The Minor or Lesser Prophets. Hose’a, 
7081, Amos, Obadiah, Micah, Jonah, 
Nahum, Habak’kuk, Zephani’ah, Haggai, 
Zechariah, and Mal’achi; so called be- 
cause their writings are less extensive 
than those of the four Great Prophets, 


Prophetess (7c). Ay-e’shah, the 
second wife of Mahomet; so called, not 
because she had any gift of prophecy, 
but simply because she was the favourite 
wife of the ‘‘ prophet; ”’ she was, there- 
fore, emphatically ‘‘ Mrs. Prophet.’’ 


Propositions, in logic, are of four 
kinds, called-Aj>B, I, Ὁ, “SA” is a 
universal affirmative, and “E”’ a uni- 
versal negative ; ‘‘ 1” a particular affirm- 
ative, and ‘“‘O” a particular negative. 

“ Asserit A, negat Τὸ, verum generaliter ambo ! 

Asserit J, negat O, sed particulariter ambo.” 

A asserts and E denies some universal propo- 

= 2 

I Bane and O denies, but with particular pre- 

cision. 

Props, in theatrical slang, means pro- 
perties, of which it is a contraction. 
Everything stored in a theatre for 
general use on the stage is a ‘‘prop,’’ 
but these stores are the manager’s props. 
An actor’s “props’’ are the clothing 
and other articles which he provides for 
his own use on the stage. In many 
good theatres the manager provides 
everything but tights and a few minor 
articles ; but in minor theatres each actor 
must provide a wardrobe and properties. 


Proro’gue (2 syl.). Zhe Parliament 
was provogued. Dismissed for the holi- 
days, or suspended for a time. (Latin, 
pro-rogo, to prolong.) If dismissed en- 
tirely it is said to be ‘‘ dissolved.”’ 

Pro.’s. Professionals—that is, actors 
by profession. 

“ A big crowd slowly gathers, 

And stretches across the strect ; 
The pit door opens sharply, 
And I hear the trampling feet ; 
And the quiet pro.’s pass onward 
To the stage-door up the court.” 
Sims; Ballads of Babylon; Forgotten, ete. 


Ephraem 


Proscenium 


Prosce’nium. The front part of the 
stage, between the drop-curtain and 


orchestra. (Greek, proskénion ; Latin, 
proscenium.) 
Proscrip'tion. A sort of hue and 


cry ; so called because among the Romans 
the names of the persons proscribed were 
written out, and the tablets bearing their 
names were fixed up in the public forum, 
sometimes with the offer of a reward for 
those who should aid in bringing them 
before the court. If the proscribed did 
not answer the summons, their goods 
were confiscated and their persons out- 
lawed. In this case the name was en- 
graved on brass or marble, the offence 
stated, and the tablet placed conspicu- 
ously in the market-place. 


Prose means straightforward speak- 
ing or writing (Latin, ora'tio pro’sa—i.e. 
proversa), in opposition to foot-bound 
speaking or writing, oratio vincta (fet- 


tered speech—i,.e. poetry). 


Prose. J! y a plus de vingt ans que je 
dis de la prose, sans que jen susse rien. 
I have known this these twenty years 
without being conscious of it. (Joliére : 
Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme.) 

“* Really,’ exclaimed Lady Ambrose, brigliten- 
ing, ‘Ily a plus devingt ans que je dis de la prose, 
sans que jen susse rien.’ And so it seems that 1 
have known history without suspecting it, just as 
Mons. Jourdain talked prose.”—Mallock : The New 
Republic, bk. 111. chap. 2. 

Father of Greek prose. Terod’otos 
(.σ, 484-405). 

Father of English prose. Wycliffe 
(1324-1384) ; and Roger Ascham (1515- 
1568). 

Father of French prose, Vitlehardouin 
(pron. Veal-hard-whah'n.) (1167-1213.) 


Proselytes (Ὁ syl.) among Jewish 
‘writers were of two kinds—vyiz. ‘‘ The 
proselyte of righteousness’? and the 
‘stranger of the gate.’’ The former 
submitted to circumcision and conformed 
to the laws of Moses. The latter ab- 
stained from offering sacrifice to heathen 
gods, and from working on the Sabbath. 
‘The stranger that is within thy gate ”’ 
= the stranger of the gate. 

“T must confess that his society wasat first irk- 
some; but... 1 now have hope that he may he- 
comes stranger of the gate.”—Eidad the Pilgrim, 

Proser’pina or Pros’erpine (3 syl.). 
One day, as she was amusing herself in 
the meadows of Sicily, Pluto seized her 
and carried her off in his chariot to the 
infernal regions for his bride. In her 
terror she dropped some of the lilies she 


1012 


Protector 


had been gathering, and they turned to 
daffodils, 
“© Proserpina, 


plese flowers now, that frighted thou let’st 
‘a 


From Dis’s waggon! daffodils, 

That come before the swallow dares, and take 

The winds of March with heauty.” 
Shakespeare: Winter's Tale, iv. 4. 

Proserpine’s Divine Calidore. 
Sleep. In the beautiful legend of Cupid 
and Psyche, by Apuleius, after Psyche 
had long wandered about searching for 
her lost Cupid, she is sent to Prosperine 
for “ the casket of divine beauty,’’ which 
she was not to open till she came into 
the light of day. Psyche received the 
casket, but just as she was about to step 
on earth, she thought how much more 
Cupid would love her if she was di- 
vinely beautiful; so she opened the 
casket and found the calidore it con- 
tained was sleep, which instantly filled 
all her limbs with drowsiness, and she 
slept as it were the sleep of death. 

This is the very perfection of allegory. Of 
course, sleep is the only beautifier of the weary 
and heart-sick ; and this calidore Psyche found 
before Cupid again came to her, 

Prosper'ity Robinson. Viscount 
Goderich, Earl of Ripon, Chancellor of 
the Exchequer in 1823. In 1825 he 
boasted in the House of the prosperity of 
the nation, and his boast was not yet 
cold when the great financial crisis oc- 
curred, It was Cobbett who gave him 
the name of ‘‘ Prosperity Robinson.’’ 


Pros’pero. Rightful Duke of Milan, 
deposed by his brother. Drifted on a 
desert island, he practised magic, and 
raised a tempest in which his brother was 
shipwrecked. Ultimately Prospero broke 
his wand, and his daughter married the 
son of the King of Naples. (Shake- 
speare : Tempest.) 


Protag’oras of Abde'ra was the first 
who took the name of ‘‘ Sophist.’’ (8.6. 
480-411.) 


Prote'an. Having the aptitude to 
change its form : ready to assume differ- 
ent shapes. (See PROTEUS.) 


Protec'tionist. One who advocates 
the imposition of import duties, to 
*‘protect’’ home produce or manufac- 
tures. 


Protector. 
(1216). 

Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester (1422- 
1447). 

Richard, Duke of Gloucester (1483). 

The Duke of Somerset (1548). 

The Lord Protector of the Common- 
wealth. Oliver Cromwell (1653-1658). 


The Earl of Pembroke 


Protesilaos 


Protesila’os,in Fnelon’s 7élémaque, 
is meant to represent Louvois, the French 
Minister of State. 


Prot’estant. One of the party who 
adhered to Luther at the Reformation. 
These Lutherans, in 1529, ‘‘ protested ”’ 
against the decree of Charles V. of 
Germany, and appealed from the Diet of 
Spires to a general council. A Protest- 
ant now means one of the Reformed 
Church. 

Protestant Pope. Clement XIV. 


Proteus (pron. Pro'-tuce). As many 
shapes as Proteus—i.e. full of shifts, 
aliases, disguises, ete. Proteus was Nep- 
tune’s herdsman, an old man and a 
prophet. He lived in a vast cave, and 
his custom was to tell over his herds of 
sea-calyes at noon, and then to sleep. 
There was no way of catching him but 
by stealing upon him during sleep and 
binding him ; if not so captured, he would 
elude anyone who came to consult him 
by changing his shape, for he had the 
power of changing it in an instant into 
any form he chose. 

“The changeful Proteus, wliose prophetic mind, 
The secret cause of Bacchus’ rage divined, 
Attending, left the flocks, his y charge, 

To graze the bitter weedy foam at large.” 

; Camoens: Lusiad, vi. 

Pro'teus. One of the two gentlemen 
of Verona; his serving-man is Launce. 
Valentine is the other gentleman, whose 
serving-man is Speed. (Shakespeare - 
Two Gentlemen of Verona.) 


Prothala’‘mion. Marriage song by 
Edmund Spenser, peculiarly exquisite— 
probably the noblest ever sung. 


Proto-martyr. The first martyr. 
Stephen the deacon is so called (Acts 
Vv. Vii.). 

Pro'tecol. The first rough draft or 
original copy of a despatch, which is to 
form the basis of a treaty. (Greek, 
proto-kdleon, a sheet glued to the front 
of a manuscript, and bearing an abstract 
of the contents and purport. (//a- 
molaus Barbarus.) 


Protoplasm, Sarcode. The material 
or cells of which all living things are 
built up. Each isa jelly-like substance, 
the former being the nucleus of plants 
and the latter of animals. Max Schultz 
proved the identity of these substances. 


τ Protoplasm is not a simple but a complicated 
structure, sometimes called a ‘‘ colony of plasts,” 
or nuclear granules. (Greek, proto-plasma, the 
first model; proto-sarkodes, the first flesh-like 
entity.) 


Protozoa. 
animal life (Greek, protos zon). 


The lowest class of 
In a 


1013 


Prussian Blue 


figurative sense, a young aspirant for 
literary honours: ‘‘They were young 
intellectual protozoa.”’ 


Proud (Zhe). Otho IV., Emperor of 
Germany. (1175, 1209-1218.) 

Tarquin II. of Rome. Swuperbus, 
(Reigned B.c. 635-510, died 496.) 

The proud Duke, Charles Seymour, 
Duke of Somerset. He would never 
suffer his children to sit in his presence, 
and would never speak to his servants 
except by signs. (Died 1748.) 

Proud as Lucifer ; proud as a peacock, 


Proud fute (Oliver), A boasting 
bonnet-maker of Perth. His widow is 
Magdalen or Maudie. (Sir Valter Scott : 
Fair Maid of Perth.) 


Prout, (See wider FATHER.) 


Province means a country previously 
conquered. (Latin, pro vinco.) 


Provincial. Like or in the manner 
of those who live in the provinces, 

Provincial of an Order. The superior 
of all the monastic houses of a province. 


Prudent Tree (7/c). Pliny calls the 
mulberry the most prudent of all trees, 
because it waits till winter is well over 
before it puts forth itsleaves. Ludovico 
Sforza, who prided himself on his pru- 
dence, chose a mulberry-tree for his 
device, and was called “ὁ // JMovo0.” 


Prudhomme. 4 Mons. Prud'homme. 
A man of experience and great prudence, 
of estimable character and _ practical 

1 Your M Prud‘ho eis 
good sense. our Mons. Prud’/homme is 
never a man of genius and originality, 
but what we in England should term a 
“¢ Quaker of the old school.” 


The council of prid hommes. A council 
of arbiters to settle disputes between 
masters and workmen. 


Prunello. Stuff. Prunello really 
means that woollen stuff of which com- 
mon ecclesiastical gowns used to be 
made; it was also employed for the 
uppers of women’s boots and_ shoes ; 
everlasting. A corruption of Brignoles. 
τς Worth makes the man,and want of it the fellow ; 

The rest is all but leather or prunello,” 

Pope: Essay on Man, iv. 

Prussia means zea Russia, the 
country bordering on Russia. In Neo- 
Latin, Borussia ; in Slavonic, Porussia ; 
po in Slavonic signifying ‘‘ near.’’ 


Prussian Blue. So called because 
it was discovered by a Prussian, viz. 


Prussic Acid 


1014 


Public-house Signs 


Diesbach, a colourman of Berlin, in 1710. 
It is sometimes called Berlin blue. 


Prus'sic Acid means the acid of 
Prussian blue. It is now termed in 
science hydrocyan'ic acid, because it is 
made from a cyanide of iron. 


Psalm cv. 28. The Prayer Book 
version is: ‘‘ They were not obedient 
unto his word.”’ 

The Bible version and the new version 
is: ‘They rebelled not against his 
word.”’ 


Psalms. Seventy-three psalms are 
inscribed with David’s name, twelve 
with that of Asaph the singer ; eleven go 
under the name of the Sons of Korah, a 
family of singers; one (¢.¢. Ps. xc.) is 
attributed to Moses. The whole com- 
pilation is divided into five books: bk. 1, 
from i. to xli. ; bk. 2, from xli. to lxxii. ; 
bk. 3, from Ixxiii. to Ixxxix. ; bk. 4, from 
xc. to evi. ; bk. 5, from cvii. to cl. 


Psalmist. The sweet psalmist of 
Isvacl. King David, who composed 
many of the Bible Psalms. (See Psalm 
Texan 20.) 

Psalter of Tara (Zhe). It contains 
a narrative of the early kings of Ireland 
from Ollam Fodlah to B.c. 900. 

© Their tribe, they said, their high degree, 
Was sung in Tara’s Psaltery.” 
Cumpbell : O'Connor's Child. 

Psaphon’s Birds (Psaph'onis aves). 
Puffers, flatterers. Psaphon, in order 
to attract the attention of the world, 
reared a multitude of birds, and having 
taught them to pronounce his name, let 
them fly. 

“To what far region have his songs not flown, 

Like Psaphon’s birds, speaking their master’s 

name.” Moore: Rhymes on the Road, iii. 

Psyear'pax [granary thief]. Son of 
Troxartas, King of the Mice. ‘The Frog- 
king offered to carry the young prince 
over a lake, but scarcely had he got mid- 
way when a water-hydra appeared, and 
King Frog, to save himself, dived under 
water. The mouse, being thus left on 
the surface, was drowned, and this catas- 
trophe brought about the battle of the 
Frogs and Mice, 

“The soul of great Psycarpax lives in me, 
Of great Troxartas’ line.” 
Parnell: Buttle of the Frogs and Mice, i. 

Psyche [Sy/e]. A beautiful maiden 
beloved by Cupid, who visited her every 
night, but left her at sunrise. Cupid 
bade her never seek to know who he was, 
but one night curiosity overcame her 
prudence, and she went to look at him. 


A drop of hot oil fell on his shoulder, 
awoke him, and he fled. Psyche next 
became the slave of Venus, who treated 
her most cruelly ; but ultimately she was 
married to Cupid, and became immortal, 
Mrs. Henry Tighe has embodied in six 
cantos this exquisite allegory from 
Apul€ios. 

This subject was represented by Raphael in a 
suite of thirty-two pictures,and numerous artists 
have taken the loves of Cupid and Psyche for 
their subject; as, for example, Canova, Gerard, 
Chaudet, ete. The cameo of the Duke of Marl- 


borough is said to have been the work of Tryphon 
of Athens. 


“ἢ Raphael's illustrations of the adventures of 
Psyche were engraved for a superb edition in 4to 
(De la Fable de Psyche), published by Henri Didot. 


“ Fair Psyche, kneeling at the ethereal throne, 
Warmed the fond bosom of unconquered love.” 
Darwin: Economy of Vezetation, iv. 
Psychography. Spirit - writing; 
writing said by spiritualists to be done 
by spirits. 


Ptolema'ic System. The system 
of Claudius Ptolemzeus, a celebrated as- 
tronomer of Palu’sium, in Egypt, of the 
eleventh century. He taught that the 
earth is fixed in the centre of the uni- 
verse, and the heavens revolve round it 
from east to west, carrying with them 
the sun, planets, and fixed stars, in their 
respective spheres. He said that the 
Moon was next above the earth, then 
Mercury, then Venus; the Sun he 
placed between Venus and Mars, and 
after Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, beyond 
which came the two crystalline spheres, 

* This system was accepted, tillit was replaced 
in the sixteenth century by the Copernican 
system. 

Public. The people generally and 
collectively ; the members generally of 
a state, nation, or community. 


Public-house Signs. Much of a 
nation’s history, and more of its manners 
and feelings, may be gleaned from its 
public-house signs. A very large number 
of them are selected out of compliment 
to the lord of the manor, either because 
he is the ‘‘ great man ”’ of the neighbour- 
hood, or because the proprietor is some 
servant whom ‘it delighted the lord to 
honour;”’ thus we have the Kal of 
March, in compliment to the Duke οὗ 
Richmond: the Grecn Man or game- 
keeper, married and promoted ‘‘to a 
public.’? When the name and titles of 
the lord have been exhausted, we get 
his cognisance or his favourite pursuit, 
as the Bear and Ragged Staff, the Tux 
and Hounds. As the object of the sign 
is to speak to the feelings and attract, 
another fruitful source is either some 


Public-house Signs 


1015 


Public-house Signs 


national hero or great battle; thus we 
get the Marquis of Granby and the 
Duke of Wellington, the Waterloo and 
the Alma. The proverbial loyalty of 
our nation has naturally shown itself in 
our tavern signs, giving us the ]icloria, 
Prince of Wales, the Albert, the Crown, 
and soon. Some signs indicate a spe- 
ciality of the house, as the Bowling 
Green, the Skittles ; some a political 


bias, as the Royal Oak ; some are an | 


attempt at wit, as the /ire Alls; and 
some are purely fanciful. The follow- 
ing list will serve to exemplify the 
subject :— 

The Angel. Inallusion to the angel 
that saluted the Virgin Mary. 

The Bag @ Nails. A corruption of the 
“ἢ Bacchanals.”’ 

The Bear. From the popular sport of 
bear-baiting. 

The Bear and Bacchus, in High Street, 
Warwick. <A corruption of Bear and 
Baculus—i.e. Bear and Ragged Staff, 
the badge of the Earl of Warwick. 

The Bear and Ragged Staff. The cog- 
nisance of the Earl of Warwick, the 
Ear! of Leicester, etc. 

The Bell, In allusion to races, a silver 
bell having been the winnevr’s prize up to 
the reign of Charles 11. 

La Belle Sauvage. (See BELL SAvaGe.) 

The Blue Boar, The cognisance of 
Richard 111. 

The Blue Pig (Bevis Marks). <A cor- 
ruption of the Biue Boar. (See above.) 

The Boars Head. The cognisance of 
the Gordons, etc. 

The Bolt-in-Tun. The punning he- 
raldic badge of Prior Bolton, last of 
the clerical rulers of Bartholomew’s, 
previous to the Reformation. 

Bosom’s Inn, A public-house sign in 
St. Lawrence Lane, London; a corrup- 
tion of Blossom’s Inn, as it is now called, 
In allusion to the hawthorn blossoms 
surrounding the effigy of St. Lawrence 
on the sign. 

The Bowling Green. Signifying that 
there are arrangements on the premises 
tor playing bowls. 

The Bull, The cognisance of Richard, 
Duke of York. The Black Bull is the 
cognisance of the house of Clare. 

Lhe Bull’s Head, The cognisance of 
Henry VIII. 

The Bully Ruffian. A corruption of 
the Bellerophon (a ship). 

The Castle. This, being the arms of 
Spain, symbolises that Spanish wines 
are to be obtained within. In some 
cases, without doubt, it is a compli- 
mentary sign of the manor castle, 


The Cat and Fiddle. A corruption of 
Caton Fidéle—i.e. Caton, the faithful 
governor of Calais. In Farringdon 
(Devon) is the sign of La Chatte Fidéle, 
in commemoration of a faithful cat. 
Without scanning the phrase so nicely, 
it may simply indicate that the game of 
cat (trap-ball) and a fiddle for dancing 
are provided tor customers. 

The Cat and Mutton, Hackney, which 
gives name to the Cat and Mutton 
Fields. 

The Cat and Wheel. A corruption of 
“¢St. Catherine’s Wheel;”’’ or an an- 
nouncement that cat and balance-whcels 
are provided for the amusement of cus- 
tomers. 

The Chequers. (1) In honour of the 
Stuarts, whose shield was “‘ checky,”’ like 
a Scotch plaid. (2) In commemoration 
of the licence granted by the Earls of 
Arundel or Lords Warrenne. (3) An in- 
timation that a room is set apart for 
merchants and accountants, where they 
can be private and make up their ac- 
counts, or use their ‘‘ chequers’’ undis- 
turbed. (See LaTrice.) 

The Coach and Horses. This sign 
signifies that it is a posting-house, a 
stage-coach house, or both. 

The Cock and Bottle. A corruption of 
the ‘‘Cork and Bottle,’ meaning that 
wine is sold there in bottles. Probably 
in some cases it may indicate that the 
house provides poultry, eggs, and wine. 

The Cow and Skittles, The cow is the 
real sign, and alludes to the dairy of the 
hostess, or some noted dairy in the 
neighbourhood. Skittles is added to in- 
dicate that there is a shitile ground on 
the premises. 

The Cross Keys. Common in the me- 
αἴθ νὰ] ages, and in allusion to St. Peter, 
or one of the bishops whose cognisance 
it is—probably the lord of the manor or 
the patron saint of the parish church. 
The cross keys are emblems of the 
papacy, St. Peter, the Bishop of Glou- 
cester, St. Servatus, St. Hippol’ytus, St. 
Genevitve, St. Petronilla, St. Osyth, St. 
Martha, and St. Germa’nus. 

The Devil. A public-house sign two 
doors from Temple Bar, Fleet Street. 
The sign represents St. Dunstan seizing 
the devil by the nose. (Sve wider DEVIL, 
Proverbial Phrases.) 

The Dog and Duck. Tea gardens at 
Lambeth (suppressed) ; to signify that 
the sport so called could be seen there. 
A duck was put into water, and a dog 
set to hunt it; the fun was to see the 
duck diving and the dog following it 
under water, 


Public-house Signs 


The Red Dragon, The cognisance of 
Henry VII. or the principality of Wales, 

The Spread Eagle. The arms of Ger- 
many; to indicate that German wines 
may be obtained within. 

The Fox and Goose. To signify that 
there are arrangements within for play- 
ing the royal game of Fox and Goose. 

St. George and the Dragon. In com- 
pliment to the patron saint of England, 
and his combat with the dragon. The 
legend is still stamped upon our gold 
coin. 

The George and Cannon. 
of ‘‘ George Canning.”’ 

The Globe, The cognisance of ΑἹ- 
fonso, King of Portugal ; and intimating 
that Portuguese wines may be obtained 
within. 

The Goat in Golden Boots. A corrup- 
tion of the Dutch Goed in der Gouden 
Boots (the god Mercury in his golden 
sandals). 

The Goat and Compasses. A Puritan 
sign, a corrupt hieroglyphic reading of 
**God encompasses us.”’ 

The Black Goats. A public-house sign, 
High Bridge, Lincoln, formerly Zhe 
Three Goats—i.e. three gowts (gutters 
or drains), by which the water from the 
Swan Pool (a large lake that formerly 
existed to the west of the city) was con- 
ducted into the bed of the Witham, 

The Golden Cross. This refers to the 
ensigns carried by the Crusaders. 

The Grecian Stairs. A corruption of 
“The Greesen or Stairs’? (Greesen is 
gree, a step, our de-gree). The allusion 
is to a flight of steps from the New 
Road to the MinsterYard. In Wickliffe’s 
Bible, Acts xxi. 40 is rendered—‘‘ Poul 
stood on the greezen.”’ 


“ Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence 
wee like a grize or step, may help these 
overs 


Into your favour.” 3 
Shakespeare : Othello, i. 3. 


The Green Man. The late game- 
keeper of the lord of the manor turned 
publican. At one time these servants 
were dressed in green. 

The Green Man and Still—i.e. the 
herbalist bringing his herbs to be dis- 
tilled, 

The Hare and Hounds, Ta compli- 
ment to the sporting squire or lord of 
the manor. 

The Hole-in-the- Wail (London), So 
called because it was approached by a 
passage or ‘‘hole’’ in the wall of the 
house standing in front of the tavern. 

The Ivon Devil. A corruption of 
“* Hirondelle ’’ (the swallow). There are 
numerous public-house signs referring 


A corruption 


1016 


Public-house Signs 


to birds; as, the Blackbird, the Thrush, 
the Peacock, the Martin, the Bird-in-the- 
Hand, ete. ete. 

The Three Kings. A public-house sign 
of the medieval ages, in allusion to the 
three kings of Cologne, the Magi who 
presented offerings to the infant Jesus, 
Very many public-house signs of the 
medieval period had a reference to ec- 
clesiastical matters, either because their 
landlords were ecclesiastics, or else from 
a superstitious reverence for ‘‘ saints ”’ 
and ‘‘ holy things.’’ 

The Man Laden with Mischief. A 
public-house sign, Oxford Street, nearly 
opposite to Hanway Yard. The sign is 
said to have been painted by Hogarth, 
and represents a man carrying a woman 
and a good many other creatures on his 
back. 

The Marquis of Granby (London, ete.). 
In compliment to John Manners, eldest 
son of John, third Duke of Rutland 
—a bluff, brave soldier, generous, and 
greatly beloved by his men. 

“What conquest now will Britain boast, 

Or where display her banners ? 


Alas! in Granby she has lost 
True courage and good Manners,” 


The Packhorse. To signify that pack- 
horses could be hired there. 

The Palgrave’s Head. A public-house 
sign near Temple Bar, in honour of 
Frederick, Palgrave of the Rhine. 

The Pig and Tinder Box, A. corrupt 
rendering of The Elephant and Castle ; 
the ““ pig ’’ is really an elephant, and the 
ἐς tinder-box ”’ the castle on its back. 

The Pig and Whistle. Wassailismade 
of apples, sugar, and ale. 

The Plum and Feathers. A public- 
house sign near Stoken Church Hill, 
Oxford. A corruption of the ‘‘ Plume 
of Feathers,’’ meaning that of the Prince 
of Wales, 

The Queen of Bohemia. In honour of 
Lady Elizabeth Stuart. (See BOHEMIA.) 

The Queer Door. A corruption of Carr 
Doré (Golden Heart). 

The Rose. A symbol of England, as 
the Zhistle is of Scotland, and the Sham- 
vock of Ireland. 

The Red Rose. The badge of the 
Lancastrians in the Civil War of the 
Roses, 


The White Rose. The badge of the 


*Yorkists in the Civil War of the Roses. 


The Rose of the Quarter Sessions. A 
corruption of La Lose des Quatre 
Saisons. 

The Salutation and Cat. The ‘ Salu- 
tation’? (which refers to the angel 
saluting the Virgin Mary) is the sign of 
the house, and the ‘‘ Cat’’ is added to 


Publicans 


1017 


Puff-ball 


signify that arrangements are made for 
playing cat or tipcat. 

The Saracen’s Head. Τὴ allusion to 
what are preposterously termed ‘‘ The 
Holy Wars ; ”’ adopted probably by some 
Crusader after his return home, or at 
any rate to flatter the natural sympathy 
for these Quixotic expeditions. 

The Ship, near Temple Bar, and op- 
posite The Palgrave’s Head ; in honour 
of Sir Francis Drake, the circumnavi- 
gator. 

The Ship and Shovel. Referring to Sir 
Cloudesley Shovel, a favourite admiral 
in Queen Anne’s reign. 

The Seven Stars. An astrological sign 
of the medieval ages. 

The Three Suns. The cognisance of 
Edward IV. 

The Sun and the Rose. The cognisance 
of the House of York. 

The Swan with Three Necks, A public- 
house sign in Lad Lane, etc. ; a corrup- 
tion of ‘‘ three nicks ”’ (on the bill). 

The Swan and Antelope. The cog- 
nisance of Henry V. 

The Talbot (a hound]. The arms of 
the Talbot family. 

The Turk’s Head. Alluding to the 
Holy Wars, when the Crusaders fought 
against the Turks. 

The Unicorn. The Scottish supporter 
in the royal arms of Great Britain. 

The White Hart. The cognisance of 
Richard II. ; the White Lion, of Edward 
IV., as Earl of March; the White Swan, 
of Henry IV. and Edward ITI. 


Publicans of the New Testament 
were the provincial underlings of the 
Magister or master collector who resided 
at Rome. The taxes were farmed by a 
contractor called the Manceps; this 
Manceps divided his contract into dif- 
ferent societies; each society had a 
Magister, under whom were a number of 
underlings called Pudblica’ni or servants 
of the state. 


Pucelle (Za). The Maid of Orle’ans, 
Jeanne d’Arc (1410-1431). (See Shake- 
speare’s 1 Henry VI., v. 4.) 


Puck or Lobin Goodfellow. <A fairy 
and merry wanderer of the night, 
‘rough, knurly-limbed, faun-faced, 
and shock-pated, a very Shetlander 
among the gossamer-winged”’ fairies 
around him. (See Shakespeare’s Mid- 
summer Night’s Dream, i. 1 ; iii. 1.) 


Pucka, an Indian word in very com- 
mon use, means real, Jona fide ; as, “ΗΘ 
is a commander, but not a pucka one”’ 
(i.e. not officially appointed, but only 


acting as -such, pro tempore). ‘‘The 
queen reigns, but her ministers are the 
pucka rulers.”’ A suffragan bishop, an 
honorary canon, a lLynch-judge, a 
lieutenant-colonel, the temporary editor 
of a journal, are not ‘‘ pucka,”’ or dona 
Jide so. 


Pudding. (See JACK.) 


Pudding-time properly means just 
as dinner is about to begin, for our fore- 
fathers took their pudding before their 
meat. It also means in the nick of time. 

“But Mars... 
In pudding-time came to hisaid.” _ 
Butler: Hudibras, i. 2. 

Pudens. A soldier in the Roman 
army, mentioned in 2 Tim. iv. 21, in 
connection with Linus and Claudia. Ac- 
cording to tradition, Claudia, the wife 
of Pudens, was a British lady; Linus, 
otherwise called Cyilen, was her brother ; 
and Lucius, ‘‘the British king,’ the 
grandson of Linus. ‘Tradition further 
adds that Lucius wrote to Eleutherus, 
Bishop of Rome, to send missionaries to 
Britain to convert the people. 


Puff. Exaggerated praise. The most 
popular etymology of this word is 
pouff, a coifiure employed by the ladies 
of France in the reign of the Grand 
Monarque to announce events of in- 
terest, or render persons patronised by 
them popular. Thus, Madame d’Eg- 
mont, Duke of Richelieu’s daughter, 
wore on her head a little diamond 
fortress, with moving sentinels, after 
her father had taken Port Mahon; and 
the Duchess of Orleans wore a little 
nursery, with cradle, baby, and toys 
complete, after the birth of her son and 
heir. These, no doubt, were poufis and 
puffs, but Lord Bacon uses the word 
puff a century before the head-gear 
was brought into fashion. Two other 
etymons present themselves: the old 
pictures of Fame puffing forth the 
praises of some hero with her trumpet : 
and the puffing out of slain beasts and 
birds in order to make them look 
plumper and better for food—a plan 
universally adopted in the abattoirs of 
Paris. (German, puffen, to brag or 
make a noise; and French, pou, our 
puff.) 

Puff, in The Critic, by Sheridan. An 
impudent literary quack, 


Puff-ball. A sort of fungus. The 
word isa corruption of Puck or Pouk ball, 
anciently called Puck-fist. The Trish 
name is Pooka-foot. (Saxon, Pulker- 
jist, a toadstool.) Shakespeare alludes 


Puffed Up 


1018 


Punch 


to this superstition when Pros’pero sum- 
mons amongst his elyes— 
_ “You whose pastime 
15 to make midnight mushrooms.” 
Shakespeare : Tempest, v.1. 
Puffed Up. Conceited; elated with 
conceit or praise; filled with wind. A 
puff is a tartlet with a very light or 
puffy crust. 
“That no one of you be puffed up one against 
another.’’—1 Cor. iv. 6, 
Pug, a variant of puck, is used to a 
child, monkey, dog, etc., as a pet term. 
You mischievous little pug. A playful 
reproof to a favourite. 


Pug. A mischievous little goblin in 
Ben Jonson’s drama of Zhe Devil i is an 
ASS, 


Pugna Pereo’rum (Battle of the 
Pigs). ‘The most celebrated poem of 
alliterative verse, extending to 253 Latin 
hexameters, in which every word begins 
with p. 


Puisne Judges means the younger- 
born judges, at one time called pany 
judges. They are the four inferior 
judges of the Court of Queen’s Bench, 
and the four inferior judges of the 
Court of Common Pleas. (French, 
puisné, subsequently born; Latin, post 
natus. ) 


Pukwa‘na (North American Indian), 
The curling smoke of the Peace-pipe ; a 
signal or beacon. 


Pull. 4 long pull, astr ong pull, and a 
pull all together—i.e. a steady, energetic, 
and systematic co- operation. The re- 
ference may be either to a boat, where 
all the oarsmen pull together with a 
long and strong pull at the oars ; ; or it 
may be to the act of hauling with a rope, 
when a simultaneous strong pull is in- 
dispensable. 


Pull Bacon (70). To spread the 
fingers out after having placed one’s 
thumb on the nose. 

“The officers spoke to him. when the man put 


his fingers to his nose and pulled bacon.”—Leeds 
Lolice Report, Oct, 6, 1887. 


Pull Devil, Pull Baker. Let each 
one do the best for himself in his own 
line of business, but let not one man in- 
terfere in that of another. 

“Tt’s all fair pulling, ‘pull devil, pull baker : 
someone has to get the worst of it. Nowit’s us 
(bushrangers], now it’s them (the police] that gets 

εν rubbed out."—Boldrewood : Robbery wider 
Aris, chap. XXXVil. 

Pulling. A jockey trick, which used 
to be called ‘‘ playing booty i. ὁ. ap- 
pearing to use every effort to come in 


first, but really determined to lose the 
race. 


“Mr. Kemble [in the Tron Chest) gave a sligh t 
touch of the jockey, and ‘played booty... He 
seemed to do justice to the play, but really ruined 
its success.’—George Colman the Younger. 


Pumblechook (Uncle). He bullied 
Pip when only a poor boy, but when the 
boy became wealthy was his lick-spittle, 
fawning on him most servilely with his 
“* May T, Mr, Pip ”’ [have the honour of 
shaking hands with you] ; ‘“‘ Might I, Mr. 
PipY? (ts ake the liberty of saluting you]. 
(Dickens : Great Expectations.) 


Pummel or Pommel. To _ beat 
black and blue. (French, pommeler, to 
dapple.) 


Pump. To sift, to extract informa- 
tion by indirect questions. In allusion 
to pumping up water. 

“ But pump not me for politics.” 
Olway. 

Pumpernickel. Brown George or 
rye-bread used by Westphalian peasants. 

His Transparency of Pumpernickel. 
So the 7imes satirised the minor German 
princes, ‘‘ whose ninety men and ten 
drummers constituted their whole em- 
battled host on the parade-ground before 
their palace; and whose revenue was 
supplied by a percentage on the tax levied 
on strangers at the Pumpernickel Kur- 
saal.”’ (July 18, 1866.) 

Thackeray was author of the phrase. 


Pun is the Welsh pw, equivalent ; it 
means a word equally applicable to two 
things. ‘The application should be re- 
mote and odd in order to give piquancy 
to the play. (Sce CALEMBOURG.) 


Pun and Pickpocket. Je who 
would make a pun would pick a pocket. 
Dr. Johnson is generally credited with 
this silly dictum (1709-1784), but Dennis 
had said before to Purcell, ‘‘ Any man 
who would make such an execrable pun 
would not scruple to pick my pocket’ 
(1657-1784). (Sir W. H. Pyne: Wine 
and Walnuts, vol. 11. p. 277.) 

The “execrable pun” was this: Purcell rang the 
hell for the drawer or waiter, but no one answered 
it. Purcell; tapping the table, asked Dennis * ‘why 
the table was like the tavern?” Ans. “ Because 

there is no drawer in it.’ 

Punch, from the Indian word pom 
(five) ; so called from its five ingredients 
—viz. spirit, water, lemon, sugar, and 
spice. It was introduced into England 
from Spain, where it is called ponche, 
It is called ‘‘ Contradiction,’’ because it 
is composed of spirits to make it strong, 
and azater to make it weak; of /emon- 


juice to make it sour, and swyar to make 


it sweet. 


Punch 


1019 


Purgatory 


Mr. Punch. A Roman mime called 
Maccus was the original of Punch. A 
statuette of this buffoon was discovered 
in 1727, containing all the well-known 
features of our friend—the long nose 
and goggle eyes, the hunch back and 
protruding breast. 

The most popular derivation of Punch 
and Judy is Pontius cum Judais (Matt. 
xxvii. 19), an old mystery play of Pontius 
Pilate and the Jews; but the Italian 
policinello seems to be from pollicé, a 
thumb (Tom-thumb figures), and our 
Punch is from pawnch. 

The drama or story of our Punch and 
Judy is attributed to Silvio Fiorillo, an 
Italian comedian of the seventeenth cen- 
tury. The tale is this: Punch, in a fit 
of jealousy, strangles his infant child, 
when Judy flies to her revenge. She 
fetches a bludgeon, with which she be- 
labours her husband, till Punch, exaspe- 
rated, seizes another bludgeon and beats 
her to death, then flings into the street 
the two dead bodies. ‘The bodies attract 
the notice of a police officer, who enters 
the house. Punch flees for his life; 
being arrested by an officer of the In- 
quisition, he is shut up in prison, from 
which he escapes by means of a golden 
key. The rest is an allegory, showing 
how Punch triumphs over all the ills that 
flesh is heir to. (1) En’nui, im the shape 
of a dog, is overcome; (2) Disease, in 
the disguise of a doctor, is kicked out ; 
(3) Death is beaten to death ; and (4) the 
Devil himself is outwitted. 

Pleased as Punch, (See PLEASED.) 


Punch. 4 Suffolk punch. A short, 
thick-set cart-horse, 

“T did hear them call their child Punch, which 
pleased me mightily, that word having become a 
word of common use for everything that is thick 
and short.”—Pepys's Diary. 

Pune'tual. No bigger than a point, 
exact to a point or moment. (Latin, ad 
punctum.) “Hence the angel, describing 
this earth to Adam, calls it ‘‘ This spa- 
cious earth, this’ punctual spot ’’—?.¢. a 
spot no bigger than a point. (Wilton : 
Paradise Lost, viii. 23.) 


Punctuality. Punctuality is the 
politeness of kings. Attributed to Louis 
XVIII. 


Punctuation. The following advice 
of Bishop Orleton to Gourney and Mal- 
travers in 1327 is an excellent example 
of the importance of punctuation :— 
Edwardum occidere nolite timere bonwn 
est—‘* Refrain not to kill King Edward 
is right.” If the point is placed after 
the first word, the sentence reads, ‘‘ Not 


to kill the king is right;”’ but if after 
the second word, the direction becomes, 
“ Refrain not ; to kill the king isright.”’ 
(Sce ORACLE.) 

Pundit. An East Indian scholar, 
skilled in Sanskrit, and learned in law, 
divinity, and science. We use the word 
for a porcus litera'rum, one more stocked 
with book lore than deep erudition. 

Pu’'nic Apple. A pomegranate; so 
called because itis the pomum or **apple”’ 
belonging to the genus Pw'niea. 


Punic Faith. Treachery, violation 
of faith. ‘‘ Punic faith” is about equal 
to ‘‘Spanish honesty.’? The Puni (a 
corruption of Poeni) were accused by the 
Romans of breaking faith with them, a 
most extraordinary instance of the ‘‘ pot 
calling the kettle black;” for whatever 
infidelity the Carthaginians were guilty 
of, it could scarcely equal that of their 
accusers. 

The Roman Peni is the word Pheni 
(Phoenicians), the Carthaginians being 
of Phoenician descent. 

“ Our Punic faith 
Is infamous, and branded to a proverb.” 
Addison: Cuto, ii. 

Punish a Bottie (70). To drink a 
bottle of wine or spirits. When the 
contents have been punished, the empty 
bottles are ‘‘ dead men.”’ 

“ After we'd punished a couple of bottles of old 
Crow whisky ... he caved in all of a sudden [he 
got completely powerless].”—The Barton Experi- 
ment, Chap, X1Y. 

Punjab [jive rivers]. They are the 
Jelum, Chenab, Ravee, Be’as, and Sutlej ; 
called by the Greeks pente-potamia. 


Pup properly means a little boy or 
girl. A little dog is so called because it 
15 ἃ pet. An insect in the third stage of 
existence. (Latin, pupys, fem. pupa; 
French, porupée, adoll; German, pppe.) 


Purbeck (Dorsetshire). Noted fora 
marble used in ecclesiastical ornaments. 
Chichester cathedral has a row of columns 
of this limestone. The columns of the 
Temple church, London; the tomb of 
Queen Eleanor, in Westminster Abbey ; 
and the throne of the archbishop in 
Canterbury cathedral, are other speci- 
mens. 


Purgatory. The Jewish Rabbi be- 
lieved that the soul of the deceased was 
consigned to a sort of purgatory for 
twelve months after death, during which 
time it was allowed to visit its dead 
body and the places or persons it es- 
pecially loved. This intermediate state 
they called by various names, as ‘‘ the 


Puritani 10 


0 Puss in Boots 


bosom of Abraham,’’ ‘‘the garden of 
Eden,”’ ‘‘upper Gehenna.’? ‘The Sab- 
bath was always a free day, and prayer 
was supposed to benefit those in this 
intermediate state. 


Purita/ni (1). The Puritans. Elvi'ra, 
daughter of Lord Walton, a Puritan, 
is affianced to Lord Arthur Talbot, a 
Cavalier. On the day of espousals, Lord 
Arthur aids Henrietta, the widow of 
Charles I., to escape ; and Elvira, think- 
ing him faithless, loses her reason. On 
his return to England, Lord Arthur ex- 
plains the circumstances, and the two 
lovers vow that nothing on earth shall 
part them more. The vow is scarcely 
uttered, when Cromwell’s soldiers enter 
and arrest Lord Talbot for treason ; but 
as they lead him forth to execution a 
herald announces the defeat of the 
Stuarts, and free pardon to all political 
prisoners, whereupon Lord Arthur is 
liberated, and marries Elvira. (Bellini : 
1 Puritani ; libretto by C. Pepoli.) 

Puritans. Seceders from the Re- 
formed Church ; so called because they 
rejected all human traditions and inter- 
ference in religion, acknowledging the 
sole authority of the ‘‘ pure Word of 
God,’’? without ‘note or comment.’’ 
Their motto was: ‘‘ The Bible, the whole 
Bible, and nothing but the Bible.’? The 
English Puritans were sometimes by the 
Reformers called Precisionists, from 
their preciseness in matters called ‘‘ in- 
different.’’ Andrew Fuller named them 
Non-conformists, because they refused to 
subscribe to the Act of Uniformity. 


Purkinge’s Figures. In optics, 
figures produced on a wall of uniform 
colour when a person entering a dark 
room with a candle moves it up and 
down approximately on a level with the 
eyes. From the eye near the candle an 
image of the retinal vessels will appear 
projected on the wall. 


Purler (4). <A cropper, or heavy 
fall from one’s horse in a steeplechase or 
in the hunting-field (probably allied to 
hurl and whirl). 

“ Seraph’s white horse... cleared it, but fall- 
ing with a mighty crash, gave him a_purler on 
the opposite side."—Ouida: Under Two Flags, 
chap. vi. 

Pur'lieu (2 syl.). French powrallé 
liew (a place free from the forest laws). 
Henry 11., Richard I., and John made 
certain lands forest lands; Henry III. 
allowed certain portions all round to 
be severed. These ‘‘rues,’’ or forest 
borders were freed from that servitude 
which was laid on the royal forests. The 


“‘nerambulation’’? by which this was 
effected was technically called powrallée, 
“Tn the purlieus of this forest stands 
A sheepcote fenced about with oliye-trees.” 
Shakespeare: As You Like It, iv. 3. 
Purple (blue and red) indicates the 
love of truth even unto martyrdom. (See 
weder CoLouR, for its symbolisms, etc.) 


Purple (Promotion to the). Promo- 
tion to the rank of cardinal in the Roman 
Catholic Church. 

“Dr. Moran’s promotion to the purple is cer- 
tain.’ —Newspaper paragraph. 

Purpure [purple]. One of the colours 
of an heraldic escutcheon. It is ex- 
pressed by vertical lines running down 
towards the left hand (as you look at 
the shield lying before you) ; ‘‘ Vert” 
runs the contrary way. 


Wj δὲ 


English heralds vary escutchecns by seven 
colours ; foreign heralds by nine. (See HERALDS.) 

Pursy,Pursiness. Broken-winded, 
or in a bloated state in which the wind 
is short and difficult. (French, povssi-f, 
same meaning. ) 

A fat ard pursy man. Shakespeare 
has ‘“ pursy Insolence,” the insolence of 
Jesurun, ‘‘ who waxed fat and kicked.’’ 
In Hamilct we have ‘‘ the fatness of these 
pursy times ’’—7.¢e, wanton or self-indul- 
gent times. 


Purura’vas and Urva’si. An Indian 
myth similar to that of ‘‘ Apollo and 
Daphne.”” Purtravas is a legendary 
king who fell in love with Urva'si, a 
heavenly nymph, who consented to be- 
come his wife on certain conditions. 
These conditions being violated, Urvasi 
disappeared, and Pururavas, inconsol- 
able, wandered everywhere to find her. 
Ultimately he succeeded, and they were 
indissolubly united. (See PsycHE.) 


Pu'seyite (3 syl.). A High Church- 
man; so called from Dr. Pusey, of Ox- 
ford, a chief contributor to the Zyacts 
for the Times. (See TRACTARIANS.) 


Puss. A cat, hare, or rabbit. (Irish, 
pus, a cat.) It is said that the word, 
applied to a hare or rabbit, is from the 
Latin Jepus, Frenchified into le pus, 
True or not, the pun may pass muster, 

“Oh, puss, it bodes thee dire disgrace, 

When I defy thee to the race. 
Come, ‘tis a bet ; nay, no denial, 


7111 lay my shell upon the trial.” Ἢ 
The Hare and the Tortoise. 


Puss in Boots [16 Chat Botié], from 
the Eleventh Night of Straparola’s 


Put 


-- — 


1021 


Pyrrhic Victory 


Italian fairy tales, where Constantine’s 
cat procures his master a fine castle and 
the king’s heiress. First translated into 
French in 1585. Our yersion is taken 
from that of Charles Perrault. There is 
a similar one in the Scandinavian nursery 
tales. This clever cat secures a fortune 
and a royal partner for his master, who 
passes off as the Marquis of Car’abas, but 
is in reality a young miller without a 
penny in the world. 


Put. A clown, a silly shallow-pate, a 
butt, one easily ‘‘ put upon.” 


“Queer country puts extol Queen Bess’s reign.” 
Bramson. 


Put the Cart before the Horse. 
(See CART.) 


Put up the Shutters (7). 
nounce oneself a bankrupt. 

Do you think Iam going to put up the shutters 
if we can manage to keep going ? 

Putney and Mortlake Race. The 
annual eight-oared boat-race between 
the two universities of Cambridge and 
Oxford. 


Putting on Frills (American). Giv- 
ing oneself airs. 


Putting on Side. Giving oneself 
airs. Side is an archaic word for a train 
or trailmg gown; also long, as ‘‘his 
beard was side.’’ A side-coat means a 
long trailing coat. (Anglo-Saxon sid, 
great, wide, long—as sid-fear, long 
hair.) 

“JT do not like side frocks for little girls.’— 
Skinner. 

Pygmalion. A statuary of Cyprus, 
who hated women and resolved never to 
marry, but fell in love with his own 
statue of the goddess Venus. At his 
earnest prayer the statue was vivified, 
and he married it. (Ovid: Metwnor- 
phoses, x.; Earthly Paradise, August.) 
“ Yew, like Pygmalion, doat on lifeless charms, 

Or care to clasp a statue in their arms.” 

S. Jenyns : Art of Dancing, canto i. 

In Gilbert’s comedy of Pygmalion 
and Galatéa, the sculptor is a married 
man, whose wife (Cynisca) was jealous 
of the animated statue (Galatéa), which, 
after enduring great misery, voluntarily 
returned to its original state. This, of 
course, is mixing up two Pygmalions, 
wide as the poles apart. 

John Marston wrote certain satires called The 
Metamorphoses of Pygmalion’s Image. These 
Satires were suppressed, and are now very rare. 

Pyg’mies (2 syl.). A nation of 
dwarfs on the banks of the Upper Nile, 
Every spring the cranes made war upon 
them and devoured them. They cut 
down every corn-ear with an axe. 


To an- 


When Hercules went to the country 
they climbed up his goblet by ladders to 
drink from it; and while he was asleep 
two whole armies of them fell upon his 
right hand, and two upon his left; but 
Hercules rolled them all in his lon’s 
skin. It is easy to see how Swift has 
availed himself of this Grecian legend in 
his Gulliver's Travels. Stanley met with 
a race of Pygmies in his search for Emin 
Pasha. 


Pylades and Orestes. Two model 
friends, whose names have become pro- 
verbial for friendship, like those of Da- 
mon and Pythias, David and Jonathan. 


Pyramid. The largest is that of 
Cholula, in Mexico, which covers fifty 
acres of ground. The largest in Egypt 
is that of Cheops, near Cairo, which 
covers thirteen acres. Sir William Tite 
tells us it contains ninety million cubic 
feet of stone, and could not be now built 
for less than thirty millions of money 
(sterling). 

Pyr’'amus. ‘The lover of Thisbé. 
Supposing Thisbe to be torn to pieces by 
a lion, he stabbed himself, and Thisbe, 
finding the dead body, stabbed herself 
also. Both fell dead under a mulberry- 
tree, which has ever since borne blood- 
red fruit. Shakespeare has a travesty 
of this tale in his Midswmmer Night's 
Dream. (Ovid : Metamorphoses, bk. iv.) 


Pyroc'les and Musidorus. Heroes 
whose exploits, previous to their arrival 
in Arcadia, are detailed in the Arca'dia 
of Sir Philip Sidney. 

Pyrodes (3 syl.), son of Clias was so 
called, according to Pliny (vii. 56), be- 
cause he was the first to strike fire from 
flint. (Greek, pur, fire; = ignifus.) 


Pyrrha. Seculum Pyrrhe. The 
Flood. Pyrrha was the wife of Deu- 
calion (Horace 1 Odes, ii. 6). So much 
rain has fallen, it looks as if the days of 
Pyrrha were about to return. 


Pyr’rhic Dance, the most famous 
war-dance of antiquity, received its 
name from Pyrrichos, a Dorian. — It 
was danced to the flute, and its time 
was very quick, Julius César intro- 
duced it into Rome. The Romaika, still 
danced in Greece, is a relic of the an- 
cient Pyrrhic dance. 

“ Ye have the Pyrrhie dance as often, 

Where is the Pyrrhic phalanx gone ?” 

Byron. 

Pyrrhic Victory (4). A. ruinous 
victory. Pyrrhus, after his victory over 
the Romans, near the river Siris, said 


Pyrrho 


Q.E.F. 


to those sent to congratulate him, ‘‘ One 
more such victory and Pyrrhus is un- 
done.”’ 

“The railway companies see that in fighting 
their customers they gain but a very Pyrrhic 
sort of victory.”"—Newspuper article, Feb. 1th, 
1893. 

Pyrrho. A sceptic. _Pyrrho was 
the founder of the sceptical school of 
philosophy. He was a native of Elis, 
in Peloponne’sos, 
© Blessed he the day I'scaped the wrangling crew 

From Pyrrho’s maze and Epicurus’ sty.” 

Beattie: Minstrel. 

Pyrrho’nian School (Zic). The 
sceptical platform founded by Pyrrho. 
(See above.) 


Pyrrhonism. Infidelity. (Sce above.) 


Pythag'cras, son of Mnesarchos, was 
called son of Apollo or Pythios, from 
the first two syllables of his name ; but 
he was called Pytha-goras because the 
Pythian oracle predicted his birth. 

Pythagoras, generally called The Long- 
haired Sa'mian. A native of Sa’mos, 
noted for his manly beauty and long 
hair. The Greeks applied the phrase to 
any venerable man or philosopher. 

Pythagoras maintained that he dis- 
tinctly recollected having occupied other 
human forms before his birth at Samos: 
(1) He was ASthal'ides, son of Mercury ; 
(2) Euphorbos the Phrygian, son of Pan’- 
thoos, in which form he ran Patroclos 
through with a lance, leaving Hector to 
dispatch the hateful friend of Achilles ; 
(3) Hermotimos, the prophet of Clazo- 
me’ne; and (4) a fisherman. To prove his 
Phrygian existence he was taken to the 
temple of Hera, in Argos, and asked to 
point out the shield of the son of Pan- 
thoos, which he did without hesitation. 
(See Rat.) 

The golden thigh of Pythagoras. This 
thigh he showed to Ab’aris, the Hyper- 
borean priest, and exhibited it im the 
Olympic games. 

Abaris, priest of the Hyperbo’reans, 
gaye him a dart, by which he was carried 
through the air, over inaccessible rivers, 
lakes and mountains; expelled pesti- 
lence ; lulled storms; and performed 
other wonderful exploits. 

Pythagoras maintained that the soul 
has three vehicles: (1) the ethereal, which 
is luminous and celestial, in which the 
soul resides in a state of bliss in the 
stars ; (2) the aninous, which suffers the 
punishment of sin after death; and (3) 
the terrestrial, which is the vehicle it 
occupies on this earth. 

Pythagoras asserted he could write on 


— rm 


write on a looking-glass in blood, and 
place it opposite the moon, when the 
inscription would appear photographed 
or reflected on the moon’s disc. 

Pythagoras. _Mesmerism was prac- 
tised by Pythagoras, if we may credit 
Iamblichus, who tells us that he tamed 
a savage Daunian bear by ‘‘ stroking it 
gently with his hand ; ’’ subdued an eagle 
by the same means; and held absolute 
dominion over beasts and birds by ‘‘ the 
power of his voice,” or ‘‘ influence of his 
touch.”’ 


Pythagore’an System. Pytha’goras 
taught that the sun is a movable sphere 
in the centre of the universe, and that 
all the planets revolve round it. This 
is substantially the same as the Coperni- 
can and Newtonian systems, 


Pythian Games. The games held 
by the Greeks at Pytho, m Phocis, sub- 
sequently called Delphi. They took 
place every fourth year, the second of 
each Olympiad. 

Pythias. (See Damon.) 


Py’'thon. The monster serpent hatcned 
from the mud of Deucalion’s deluge, and 
slain near Delphi by Apollo, 


Q 


Q. Qin a corner. Something not seen at 
first, but subsequently brought to notice. 
The thong to which seals are attached in 
legal documents is in French called the 
queue ; thus we have lettres scellées sur 


simple queue or sur double queue, aceord- 
ing to whether they bear one or two 
seals. In documents where the seal is 
attached to the deed itself, the corner 
where the seal is placed is called the 


queue, and when the document is sworn- 
to the finger is laid on the gueue. 

In a merry Q (cue). Humour, temper ; 
thus Shakespeare says, ‘‘ My cue is vil- 
lanous melancholy’? (Avg Lear, 1. 2). 

Old Q. The fifth Earl of March, 
afterwards Duke of Queensberry. 


Q@.E.D. Quod erat demonstrandun., 
Three letters appended to the theorems 
of Euclid, meaning: Thus have we 
proved the proposition stated above, as 
we were required to do. 


Q.E.F. Quod erat facien'dum. Three 
letters appended to the problems of 
Euclid, meaning: Thus have we done 
or drawn the figure required by the 


the moon. His plan of operation was to 


proposition, 


QP. 


QP. Quantiun placct. Two letters 
used in prescriptions, meaning the quan- 
tity may be as little or much as you 
like. Thus, in a cup of tea we might say 
“* Milk and sugar q.p.”’ 


QS. Quantwn sufficit. Two letters 
appeuded to prescriptions, and meaning 
as much as is required to make the pills 
up. Thus, after giving the drugs in 
minute proportions, the apothecary is 
told to ‘‘mix these articles in liquorice 
(see 

Q.V. (Latin, quantum vis). As much 
as you like, or quantum valeat, as much 
as 1s proper. 

g.v. (Latin, guod vide). 


Which see. 


Quack or Quack Doctor; once 
called quack-salver. A puffer of salves. 
(Swedish, qvak-salfraré ; Norwegian, 
qvak-salver ; German, quacksalber.) 

“Saltimbancoes, quacksalvers, and charlatans 
deceive the vulgar.”—Sir Thomas Lrowne. 

Quacks. Queen Anne’s quack oculists 
were William Read (tailor), who was 
knighted, and Dr. Grant (tinker). 


Quad. 70 be in quad. To be con- 
fined to your college-grounds or quad- 
rangle; to be in prison. 


Quadra. The border round a bas- 
relief. 

In the Santa Croce of Florence is a qnadra 
round a bas relief representing the Madonna, in 
white terra-cotta. Several other figures are 
introduced, 

Quadrages ima Sunday. The Sun- 
day immediately preceding Lent; so 
called because it is, in round numbers, 
the fortieth day before Easter. 


Quadragesimals. The farthings 
or payments made in commutation of a 
personal visit to the mother-church on 
Mid-Lent Sunday ; also called Whitsun 
farthings. 

Quadrilateral. The four fortresses 
of Peschie’ra and Mantua on the Mincio, 
with Vero’na and Legna’go on the 
Ad‘igé. Now demolished. 

The Prussian Quadrilateral. The for- 
tresses of Luxemburg, Coblentz, Sarre- 


τὸ =) 
louis, and Mayence. 


Quadril/le (2 syl., French) means 
a small square; a dance in which the 
persons place themselves in a square. 
Introduced into England in 1813 by the 
Duke of Devonshire. (Latin, quadrum, 
a square.) 

Le Pantalon. So called from the tune 
to which it used to be danced. 

I’ Ete. From a country-dance called 


1023 


Quadruple Alliance 


pas d’cté, very fashionable in 18(0; 
which it resembles. 

La poule. Derived from a country- 
dance produced by Julien in 1802, the 
second part of which began with the 
imitation of a cock-crow. 

Trenise. The name of a dancing- 
master who, in 1800, invented the figure. 

La pastourelle. So named from its 
melody and accompaniment, which are 
similar to the vilanelles or peasants’ 
dances, 


Quad’riloge (3 syl.). Anything 
written in four parts or books, as Childe 
Harold. Anything compiled from four 
authors, as the Life of Thomas a Becket. 
Any history resting on the testimony of 
four independent authorities, as The 
Gospel History. 

“The very authors of the Quadriloge itselfe or 
song of foure parts... doe all with one pen and 
mouth acknowledge the same.”"— Lumburde : 1 er- 
aanbulation, p. δῦ. 

Quadrivium. The four higher sub- 
jects of scholastic philosophy up to the 
twelfth century. It embraced music, 
arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy. 
The guadrivium was the ‘‘fourfold way ἢ" 
to knowledge; the ¢ri’viwm (q.v.) the 
“threefold way’? to eloquence; both 
together comprehended the seven arts 
or sciences. The seven arts are enu- 
merated in the following hexameter :— 
“Lingua, Tropus, Ratio, Numerus, Tonus, An- 

gulus, Astra.” 
And in the two following :— 
“Gram. loquitur, Dia. vera docet, Rhet. verba 


Ar. numerat, Geo. ponderat, Ast. 


colit as 


fourth of black blood; the offspring of 
a mulatto woman by a white man. The 
mulatto is half-blooded, one parent being 
white and the other black. (Latin, qua- 
tuor, four.) (See LAMB.) 


Quadruple Alliance of 1674, 
Germany, Spain, Denmark, and Holland 
formed an alliance against France to 
resist the encroachments of Louis XIV., 
who had declared war against Holland. 
It terminated with the treaty of Nime- 
guen in 1678, . y 

Quadruple Alliance of 1718-1719. An 
alliance between England, France, Ger- 
many, and Holland, to guarantee the 
succession in England to the House of 
Hanover; to secure the succession in 
France to the House of Bourbon; and 
to prohibit Spain and France from 
uniting under one crown, Signed at 
Paris. : 

Quadruple Alliance of 1834. The 


Queestio Vexata 


1024 


Quarter 


alliance of England, France, Spain, and 
Portugal for the purpose of restoring 
peace to the Peninsula, by putting down 
the Carlists or partisans of Don Carlos. 


Questio Vexa‘ta. An open question. 


Quail. A bird, said to be very sala- 
cious, hence a prostitute or courtesan. 

“ Here’s Agamemnon, an honest fellow enongh, 
and one that loves quails.’—Shakespeare: Troilus 
and Cressida, V. 1. 

The Iliad of Homer is based on the story that 
Agamemnon, being obliged to give up his mis- 
tress, took the mistress of Achilles to supply her 
place. This brought about a quarrel hetween 
Agamemnon and Achilles,and Achilles refused 
to have anything more to do with the siege of 
Troy. 

Quaint means odd, peculiar. A 
quaint phrase means a fanciful phrase, 
one not expressed in the ordinary way. 

“ His garment was very quaint and odd;...a 
long, long way behind the time.” — Dickens: 
Christmus Stories ; Cricket on the Hearth, chap. i. 

Quaker. It appears from the Jownal 
of George Fox, who was imprisoned for 
nearly twelve months in Derby, that the 
Quakers first obtained the appellation 
(1650) by which they are now known 
from the following circumstance :— 
‘* Justice Bennet, of Derby,” says Fox, 
‘“was the first to call us Quakers, be- 
cause I bade him quake and tremble at 
the word of the Lord.’? The system of 
the Quakers is laid down by Robert 
Barclay in fifteen theses, called Barclay’s 
Apology, addressed to Charles IT. 

“ Quakers (that, like lanterns, bear 

Their light within them) will rot swear.” 
Butler: Hudibras, ii, 2. 

Qualm. A sudden fit of illness, or 
sickly languor. Hence, a qualm of 
conscience = a twinge or uneasiness of 
conscience. 


Quanda'ry. 
of hesitation. 


Quanquam or Cancan. <A slang 
manner of dancing quadrilles permitted 
in the public gardens of Paris, etc. The 
word cancan is a corruption of the Latin 
quanguan, a term applied to the exer- 
cises delivered by young theological 
students before the divinity professors. 
Hence it came to signify ‘‘ babble,”’ 
ΚΕ jargon,” anything crude, jejee, ete. 


Quarantine (5 syl.). The forty 
days that a ship suspected of being in- 
fected with some contagious disorder is 
obliged to lie off port. (Italian, gvaran- 
tina, forty ; French, guarantaine.) 

To perform quarantine is to ride off 
port during the time of quarantine, (Sze 
Forty.) 


A perplexity; a state 


Quarll (Philip). A sort of Robinson 
Crusoe, who had a chimpanzee for his 
“man Friday.’’ The story relates the 
adventures and sufferings of an English 
hermit named Philip Quarll. 


Quarrel. A short, stout arrow used 
in the crossbow. (A corruption of car- 
vial; Welsh, chicarel; French, carrean. 
So called because the head was originally 
carré or four-sided. Hence also a quarrel 
or quarry of glass, meaning a square or 
diamond-shaped pane; guaricr, a square 
wax-candle, etc.) 

“ Quarelles qwayntly swappez thorowe knyghtez 

With iryne so wekyrly, that wynche they 

never.” Morte d Arthure. 

Quarrel. 170 quarrel over the bishop's 
cope—over something which cannot pos- 
sibly do you any good ; over goat’s wool. 
This is a French expression. The newly- 
appointed Bishop of Bruges entered the 
town in his cope, which he gave to the 
people; and the people, to part it 
among themselves, tore it to shreds, 
each taking a piece. 


Quarrel with your Bread and 
Butter (7/0). To act contrary to your 
best interest ; to snarl at that which 
procures your living, like a spoilt child, 
who shows its ill-temper by throwing its 
bread and butter to the ground. To cut 
off your nose to be avenged on your face, 


Quarry (4). Theplace where stone, 
marble, etc., are dug out and squared. 
(French, quarvé, formed into square 
blocks.) (Zomlinson.) 


Quarry. Prey. This is a term in 
falconry. When a hawk struck the 
object of pursuit and clung to it, she 
was said to ‘* bind ;”’ but when she flew 
off with it, she was said to ‘‘carry.”’ 
The ‘‘carry’’ or ‘‘ quarry,’’ therefore, 
means the prey carried off by the hawk. 
It is an error to derive this word from 
the Latin gu@ro (to seek). 

“To tell the manner of it, 

Were on the quarry of these murdered deer 

To add the death of you.” Ξ 

Shakespeare: Macbeth, iv. 3. 

Quart d@’Heure (Marais). <A time 
of annoyance. The time between the 
arrival of the guests and the announce- 
ment of dinner is emphatically called 
the maurais quart @Wheure; but the 
phrase has a much larger application: 
thus we say the Cabinet Ministers must 
have had a mauvais quart @heure when 
opening a number of telegrams of a 
troublesome character. 


Quarter. 170 grant quarter. Tospare 
the life of an enemy in your power. Dr. 
Tusler says:—‘‘It originated from an 


Quarter-days 10: 


agreement anciently made between the 
Dutch and the Spaniards, that the ran- 
som of a soldier should be the quarter of 
his pay.”’ (French, donner and de- 
mander quartier.) 

Quarter-days in England and 
Ireland :— 

(1) New Style: Lady Day (March 
25th), Midsummer Day (June 24th), 
Michaelmas Day (September 29th), and 
Christmas Day (December 26th). 

(2) Old Style: Old Lady Day (April 
6th), Old Midsummer Day (July 6th), 
Old Michaelmas Day (October 11th), 
and Old Christmas Day (January 6th). 

Quarter-days in Scotland :— 

Candlemas Day (February 2nd), Whit- 
Sunday (May 15th), Lammas Day (Au- 
gust Ist), and Martinmas Day (Noy. 11). 


Quarter Waggoner. A book of sea- 
charts. Waggoner, or rather Baron von 
Waggonaer, is a folio volume of sea- 
charts, pointing out the coasts, rocks, 
routes, etc. Dalrymple’s Charts are 
called The English Waggoner, ‘* Quar- 
ter’’ is a corruption of quarto 


Quarters. Residence or place of 
abode; as, winter quarters, the place 
where an army lodges during the winter 
months. We say ‘‘this quarter of the 
town,’’? meaning this district or part ; 
the French speak of the Latin Quartier 
—i.e. the district or part of Paris where 
the medical schools, ete., are located ; 
the Belgians speak of quartiers d louer, 
lodgings to let ; and bachelors in England 
often say, ‘‘ Come to my quarters ’’—?.¢. 
apartments. All these are from the 
French verb écarter (to set apart). 

“There shall no leavened bread be seen with 
thee, neither shall there be leayen seen... in 
all thy quarters [any of thy houses}.”—Exodus 
XMM. ἐν 

Quarterdeck. The upper deck of a 
ship from the main-mast to the poop ; if 
no poop, then from the main-mast to 
the stern. In men-of-war it is used as 
a promenade by officers only. 


Quartermaster. The officer whose 
duty it is to attend to the quarters of 
the soldiers. He superintends the issue 
of stores, food, and clothing. (Sve 
QUARTERS. ) 

As a nautical term, a quartermaster is 
a petty officer who, besides other duties, 
attends to the steering of the ship. 

Quartered. (See DRAWN.) 

Quarto. A book half the size of folio 
—i.e. where each sheet is folded into 
quarters or four leaves. 4to is the con- 
traction. (The Italian, Vibro in quarto ; 
French, in quarto ; from Latin quartus.) 


65 


fantes”’ (1 Pet. 11, 2). 


5 Queen Anne’s Bounty 


Quarto-De’cimans, who, after the 
decision of the Nicene Council, main- 
tained that Easter ought to be held on 
the fourteenth day of the first lunar 
month near the vernal equinox, whether 
that day fell on a Sunday or not. 


Quashee. A cant generic name of a 
negro; so called from a negro named 
Quassi. (See QUASSIA.) 


Quasi (Latin). Something which is 
not the real thing, but may be accepted 
in its place; thus a 

Quasi contract is not a real contract, 
but something which may be accepted 
as a contract, and has the force of one. 

Quasi tenant. The tenant of a house 
sub-let. 


Quasimo’do. A foundling, hideously 
deformed, but of amazing strength, in 
Victor Hugo’s Notre Dame de Paris, 


Quasimodo Sunday. The first 
Sunday after Easter; so called because 
the ‘‘Introit’’ of the day begins with 
these words :—‘‘ Qnasi modo gen'iti in- 
Also called ‘‘ Low 
Sunday,”’ being the first Sunday after 
the grand ceremonies of Easter. 


Quas’sia. An American plant, or 
rather genus of plants, named after 
Quassi, a negro. 

“Linneus applied this name to a tree of 
Surinam in honour of a negro, Quassi, . .. who 
employed its bark as ἃ remedy for fever ; and 
enjoyed sucha reputation among the natives as 
to be almost worshipped by some,’—Lindley and 
Moore: Treatise of Botany, part 11. p. 947.) 

Quatorziennes (fourteeners). Per- 
sons of recognised position in society 
who hold themselves in readiness to 
accept an invitation to dinner when 
otherwise the number of guests would 
be thirteen. (See THIRTEEN.) 


Queen. Greek, gyne (a woman) δ; 
Sanskrit, yoni ; Swedish, qvenna; Gothic, 
queins ; Anglo-Saxon, cwen. (See StR.) 

Queen, ‘‘woman,’’ is equivalent to 
‘‘mother.’? In the translation of the 
Bible by Ulfilas (fourth century), we 
meet with gens and gino (“ wife”’ and 
‘“woman’’); and in the Scandinavian 
languages karl and fone still mean 
“man” and “ wife.’? (See KING.) 

“He [Jesus] saith unto His mother, Woman, 
behold thy son.’—St. Joln xix, 26, 

Queen (Zhe White). Mary Queen of 
Scots; so called because she dressed in 
white mourning for her French husband. 


Queen Anne is Dead. The reply 
made to the teller of stale news. 


Queen Anne’s Bounty. A fund 
created out of the firstfruits and tenths, 


Queen Anne’s Style 


1026 


Queen’s Ware 


which were part of the papal exactions 
before the Reformation. ‘The first/ruits 
are the whole first year’s profits of a 
clerical living, and the tenths are the 
tenth part ae of the profits of a 
living. Henry VIII. annexed both these 
to the Crown, but Queen Anne formed 
them into a perpetual fund for the aug- 
mentation of poor livings and the build- 
ing of parsonages. The sum equals 
about £14,000 a year. 


Queen Anne’s Style (of architecture). 
Noted for many angles, gables, quaint 
features, and irregularity of windows. 


Queen Consort. Wife of a reigning 
king, 

Queen Dick. 
sometimes so called. 
CALENDS.) 


Queen Dowager. 
deceased king. 


Queen Passion (The Great). Love. 


“ The gailant Jew 
Of mortal hearts the great queen passion knew.” 
Peter Pindar: Portfolio; Dinah. 
Queen Quintessence. Sovereign of 
Etéléchie (q7.v.), in the romance of (ar- 
gantua and Pantag'ruel, by Rabelais. 


Queen Regnant. A queen who 
holds the crown in her own right, in 
contradistinction to a Queen Consort, 
who is queen only because her husband 
is king. 

Queen-Square Hermit. Jeremy 
Bentham, who lived at No. 1, Queen 
Square, London. He was the father of 
the political economists called Utilitar- 
ians, whose maxim is, ‘‘ The greatest 
happiness of the greatest number.,”’ 
(1748-1832.) 


Queen ofHearts. Elizabeth, daugh- 
ter of JamesI. This unfortunate Queen 
of Bohemia was so called in the Low 
Countries, from her amiable character 
and engaging manners, even in her 
lowest estate. (1596-1662.) 


Queen of Heaven, with the ancient 
Pheenicians, was Astarté ; Greeks, Hera ; 
Romans, Juno; Trivia, Hecate, Diana, 
the Egyptian Isis, etc., were all so 
called ; but with the Roman Catholics 
it is the Virgin Mary. 

In Jeremiah vii. 18: ‘‘ The children 
gather wood, . .. and the women 
knead dough to make cakes to the queen 
of heaven,”’ 1.6. probably to the Moon, 
to which the Jews, at the time, made 
drink-offerings and presented cakes, 
(Compare chapter xliy. 16-18.) 


Richard Cromwell is 
(See Dick, GREEK 


The widow of a 


~ 


Queen of the Dripping-pan. A 
cook, 


Queen of the Eastern Archips? - 
ago. The island of Java. 


Queen of the May. A village lass 
chosen to preside over the parish sports 
on May Day. ‘Tennyson has a poein on 
the subject. 


Gueen of the North. Edinburgh. 
(See the proper name for other queens. ) 


Queen of the Northern Seas. 
Elizabeth, who greatly increased the 
English navy, and was successful against 
the Spanish Armada, ete. 


Queen’s Benen or Aing’s Bench. 
One of the courts of law, in which the 
monarch used to preside in person. 


Queen’s College (Oxford), founded 
in 1340 by Robert de Eglesfield. and so 
called in compliment to Queen Philippa, 
whose confessor he was. 

Queen’s College (Cambridge), founded 
in 1448 by Margaret of Anjou, consort of 
Henry VI. MRefounded by Elizabeth 
Woodville. 


Queen’s Day. November 17th, the 
day of the accession of Queen Elizabeth, 
first publicly celebrated in 1570, and still 
kept as a holiday at the Exchequer, as 
it was at Westminster school. 

Noy. 17 at Merchant Taylors’ school 
is a holiday also, now called Sir Thomas 
White’s Founder’s Day. 

“A rumour is spread in the courf, and hath 
come to the eares of some of the most honourable 
counsell, how that T on the Queen’s day last past 
did forbidd in our college an oration to bee made 
in praise of Her Majesty’s government, etc.’—Dr. 
Whittaker to Lord Burghley (May 14th, 1590). 

Queen’s English (77,6). Dean Alford 
wrote a small book on this subject, 
whence has arisen three or four phrases, 
such as ‘clipping the Queen’s Eng- 
lish,”’ ‘‘murdering the Queen’s English,” 
ete. Queen’s English means grammatical 
English. 

Q@ueen’s Heads. Postage-stamps 
which bear a likeness of the Queen’s 
[Victoria’s] head. (1895.) 

Queen’s Pipe (7ie). Anovenat the 
Victoria Docks for destroying (by the 
Inland Revenue authorities) refuse and 
worthless tobacco. In 1892 the oven 
was replaced by a furnace. 

** In the Queen’s Warehouse, near 
the Monument, is a smaller pipe for the 
destruction of contraband articles, 


Queen’s Ware. Glazed earthen- 
ware of a creamy colour, 


Queen’s Weather 


Queen’s Weather. A fine day fora 
féte; so called because Queen Victoria 
is, for the most part, fortunate in hav- 
ing fine weather when she appears in 
public. 


Queenhithe (London). The hithe 
or strand for lading and unlading barges 
and lightersin the city. Called “ queen ”’ 
from being part of the dowry of Eleanor, 
Queen of Henry II. 


Queenstown (Ireland), formerly 
called the Cove of Cork. The name was 
changed in 1850, out of compiiment to 
Queen Victoria, when she visited Ireland 
with her husband, and created her eldest 
son Earl of Dublin. 


Queer. Counterfeit money. 
To shove the queer. To pass counterfeit 
mouey. 


Queer Card (1). A strange or 
eccentric person. In whist, etc., when 
a wrong card is played, the partner says 
to himself, ‘‘ That is a queer card,’’ which, 
being transferred to the player, means he 
is a queer card to playin such a manner. 
Hence any eccentric person, who does 
not act in accordance with social rules, 
is a *‘ queer card.”’ 


Queer Chap is the German querhopf, 
a cross-grained fellow. 


Queer Street. 70 live in Queer 
Street. 'To be of doubtful solvency. To 
be one marked in a tradesman’s ledger 
with a gu@re (inquire), meaning, make 
inquiries about this customer. 

That has put me in Queer Street. That 
has posed or puzzled me queerly. In 
this phrase queer means to puzzle; and 
Queer Street = puzzledom. 

Quency. A corruption of guintefvnuil 
(five-leaved), the armorial device of the 
family. 

Querelle @’Allemand. A contention 
about trifles, soon provoked and soon 
appeased. (See QUEUE.) 


Quern-Biter. The sword of Haco I. 
of Norway. (See Sworp.) 


“ Quern-biter of Hacon the Good, 
Wherewith ata stroke he hewed 
The millstone through and through” 
Longfellow. 


Quer’no. Camillo Querno, of Apulia, 
hearing that Leo X. was a great patron 
of poets, went to Rome with a harp in 
his hand, and sang his Alexias, a poem 
containing 20,000 verses. He was intro- 
duced to the Pope as a buffoon, but was 
promoted to the laurel. 


“ Nome in her Capitol saw Querno sit, 
Thronéd on seven hills, the Antichrist of wit.” 
Dunceiad, ii. 


1027 


Questionists 


Querpo (2 501... Shrill Querpo in 
Garth’s Dispensary, was Dr. Howe. 

In querpo. In one’s shirt-sleeves ; in 
undress. (Spanish, e cwerpo, without a 
cloak.) 

“Boy, my cloak and rapier ; it fits not a gentle- 
man of my rank to walk the streets in quer)o.’— 
Beaumont and Fietchir: Love's Cure, ti. 1. 

Questa Certesissima (Italian). 
Most courteous one; a love term used 
by Dante to Beatrice. 

“Tset myself to think of that most courteous 
one (questa cortesissima’, and thinking of her 
there fell upon mea sweet sleep.” —Mrs. Oliphant : 
Makers of Florence (Dante's description). 

Questa Gentilissima (Italian). Most 
gentle one; a love term used by Dante 
to Beatrice. 

“Common mortals stand and gaze with bated 
breath while that most gentle one (questa gentil- 
issima) goes on her way.’—M7s. Oliphant : Makers 
of Florence, Pp. 25. 

Question. 70 move the previous 
question. Noone seems able to give any 
clear and satisfactory explanation of 
this phrase. Erskine May, in his Par- 
liamentary Practice, p. 303 (9th edition), 
says: “Τὺ is an ingenious method of 
avoiding a vote upon any question that 
has been proposed, but the technical 
phrase does little to elucidate its opera- 
tion. When there is no debate, or after 
a debate is closed, the Speaker ordinarily 
puts the question as a matter of course, 
. . - but by a motion for the previous 
question, this act may be intercepted 
and forbidden. The custom [used to 
be] ‘that the question be now put,’ 
but Arthur Wellesley Peel, while 
Speaker, changed the words ‘be now 
put’ into ‘be not put’? The former 
process was obviously absurd. To con- 

inue the quotation from Erskine May : 
‘*Those who wish to ayoid the putting 
of the main question, vote against the 
previous (or latter question); and if it 
be resolved in the negative, the Speaker 
is prevented from putting the main 
question, as the House has refused to 
allow it to be put. It may, however, 
be brought forward again another day.’’ 

Of course this is correct, but what it means is 
quite another matter ; and why “the main ques- 
tion”? is called the ‘‘previous question” is past 
understanding. 

Question. When members of the House 
of Commons or other debaters call out 
Question, they mean that the person 
speaking is wandering away from the 
subject under consideration. 


Questionists. In the examinations 
for degrees in the University of Cam- 
bridge it was customary, at the begin- 
ning of the January term, to hold 
‘Acts,’ and the candidates for the 


Questions 


1028 


Bachelor’s degree were called ‘‘ Ques- 
tionists.”?> They were examined by a 
moderator, and afterwards the fathers 
of other colleges ‘‘ questioned ”’ them for 
three hours—i.e. one whole hour and 
parts of two others. (1 began my Act 
about a quarter to eleven and finished 
about halt-past one.) It was held alto- 
gether in Latin, and the words of dis- 
missal uttered by the Regius Professor 
indicated what class you would be placed 
in, or whether the respondent was 
plucked, in which, case the words were 
simply ‘‘ Descendas domine.”” 


Questions and Commands. A 
Christmas game, in which the commander 
bids his subjects to answer a question 
which is asked. If the subject refuses, 
or fails to satisfy the commander, he 
must pay a forteit or have his face 
smutted. 

“While other young ladies in the house are 
dancing, or playing at questions and commands, 
she [the devotee] reads aloud in her closet.”"—The 
Spectator, No. 394 (Hotspur's Letter), April 16, 1712. 

Queu'bus. Zhe equinoctial of Queu- 
dus. This line has Utopia on one side 
and Medam’othi on the other. It was 
discovered on the Greek Kalends by 
Outis after his escape from the giant’s 
cave, and is ninety-one degrees from the 
poles. 


“Thou wast in very gracious fooling last night, 
when thon spokest of Pigrogrom/‘itus, the Vapians 
passing the equinoctial of Queu bus. _’Twas very 
good, i’ faith.’—Shakespeare: Uwelfth Night, ii. 3. 


Queue. Gare la queue des Allemands. 
Before you quarrel, count the conse- 


quences. (See QUERELLE.) 
Queux. The seneschal of King 
Arthur. 


Quey Calves are dear Veal. Quey 
calves are female calves, which should 
be kept and reared for cows. Calves 
for the butcher are generally bull calves. 
The proverbiis somewhat analogous to 
killing the goose which lays the golden 


egg, (Danish qvie, a heifer.) 
Qui. 70 give a man the qui. When 


aman in the printing business has had 
notice to quit, his fellow-workmen say 
they ‘“‘have given him the qui.’’ Here 
gui is the contraction of quie'tus (dis- 
charge). (See QUIETUS.) 

Qui s’Excuse, s’Accuse. 
apologises condemns himself. 


Qui-Tam. A lawyer: so called from 
the first two words im an action on a 
penal statute. Qui tam pro dom'ind 
Regina, quam pro se-ipso, sequitur (Who 
sues on the Queen’s account as much as 
on his own), 


He who 


Quicksilver 


Qui Vive? (French). Who goes 
there? The challenge of a sentinel. 

To be on the qui vive. On the alert; 
to be quick and sharp; to be on the 
tip-toe of expectation, like a sentinel. 
(Sce above.) 


_ Quia Emptores, A statute passed 
in the reign of Edward I., and directed 
against the formation of new manors, 
whereby feudal lords were deprived of 
their dues. It isso called from its first 
two words. 


Quibble. An evasion ; a juggling with 
words, is the Welsh chiwibiol (a trill), 
and not the Latin gid libet (what you 
please), as is generally given. 


Quick. Living; hence animated, 
lively ; hence fast, active, brisk (Anglo- 
Saxon, ewe, living, alive), Our expres- 
sion, ‘‘ Look alive,’’? means Be bris/:, 

Quick at meat, quick at work. In 
French, ‘‘ Bonne béte s’échauffe en man- 
geant,”’ or ** Hardi gagneur, hardi man- 
geur.’ The opposite would certainly 
be true: 4 dawdle in one thing is a 
dawdle in all. 

The quick and dead, 
the dead. 


Quick Sticks (J). Without more 
ado; quickly. To cut one’s stick (q.v.) 
is to start off, and to cut one’s stick 
quickly is to start off immediately. 


The living and 


Quickly (Daince). Hostess of a tavern 
in Eastcheap. (Shakespeare: Henry LV, 
parts 1 and 2.) 

Mistress Quickly. Servant of all-work 
to Dr. Caius. She says: “1 wash, wring, 
brew, bake, scour, dress meat and drink, 
make the beds, and do all myself.’? She 
is the go-between of three suitors to 
Anne Page, and to prove her disin- 
terestedness she says: “1 would my 
master had Mistress Anne, or I would 
Master Slender had her, or in sooth 
IT would Master Fenton had her. I will 
do what I can for them all three, for so 
I have promised; and I’ll be as good as 
my word; but speciously for Master 
Fenton.” (Shakespeare : Merry Wives of 
Windsor.) 

Quicksand is sand which shifts its 
place as if it were alive. (See QUICK.) 


Quickset is living hawthorn set in 
a hedge, instead of dead wood, hurdles, 
and palings, (See QUICK.) 


Quicksilver is agen'tum vivwn 
(living silver), silver that moves about 


Quid 


1029 


like a living thing. (Anglo-Saxon, 
ewieseolfor.) 
“ Swift as quicksilver 
Tt courses through the natural gates 
And alleys of the body.” 
Shakespeare: Hamlet, i. 5. 

Quid, a sovereisn; Half a Quid, 
ΠΑ] ἃ sovereign; Quids, cash or money 
generally. A suggested derivation may 
be mentioned. Quo = anything, and 
Quid pro quo means an equivalent 
generally. If now a person is offered 
anything on sale he might say, I have 
not a guid for your quo, an equivalent 
in cash. 

“Then, looking at the gold piece, she added, ‘T 
guess you don’t often get one of these quids,’ "— 
Liberty Review, June 9, 1894, p. 437. 

Quid Libet. Quid-libets and quod- 
libets. Nice and knotty points, very 
subtile, but of no value. Quips and 
quirks, (Latin.) 

Quid of Tobacco. A corruption of 
cud (a morsel). We still say ‘‘ chew the 
eud.”’ 


Quid pro Quo. Tit fortat; areturn 


given as good as that received; a Ro-. 


land for an Oliver; an equivalent. 


Quid Rides. It is said that Lundy 
Foot, a Dublin tobacconist, set up his 
carriage, and asked Emmett to furnish 
him with a motto. The words of the 
motto chosen were Quid rides. The 
witticism is, however, attributed to H. 
Callender also, who, we are assured, 
supplied it to one Brandon, a London 
tobacconist. 

“Rides,” in English, one sylable. In Watin 
(why do you laugh ?) it isa word of two syllables. 

Quiddity. The essence of a thing, 
or that which differentiates it from other 
things. Schoolmen say Quid est (what 
is it?) and the reply is, the Quid is 
so and so, the What or the nature of 
the thing is as follows. The latter guid 
being formed into a barbarous Latin 
noun becomes Quidditas. Hence Quid 
est (what is it)? Answer: TZulis est 
quidditas (its essence is as follows). 


EE UENEW eve 
Where entity and quiddity__ 
(The ghosts of defunct bodies) fly.” 
Butler: Hudibras, 1.1. 


Quiddity. A crotchet; a trifling dis- 
tinction. (See above.) 


Quidnune. A political Paul Pry; a 
pragmatical village politician ; a political 
botcher or jobber, Quidnunc is the chief 
character in Murphy’s farce of The 
Upholsterer, or What News 9 The words 
are Latin, and mean ‘ What πον ἢ" 
“What has turned up?’’ The original 
of this political busybody was the father 


Quilp 


of Dr. Arne and his sister, Mrs. Cibber, 
who lived in King Street, Covent 
Garden. (See The Tatler, 155, etc.) 


“Familiar to a few quidnuncs.”—The Times. 

“The Florentine quidnuncs seem to lose sight 
of the fact that none of these gentlemen now 
hold office.”—The Times. 

Quidnunkis. Monkey politicians. 
Gay has a fable called The Quidnunkis, 
to show that the death not even of the 
duke regent will cause any real gap in 
nature. A monkey who had ventured 
higher than his neighbours fell from his 
estate into the river below. For a few 
seconds the whole tribe stood panic- 
struck, but as soon as the stream 
carried off Master Pug, the monkeys 
went on with their gambols as if nothing 
had occurred. 


“ Ah, sir! you never saw the Ganges ; 
There dwell the nation of Quidnunkis 
(So Monomotapa calls monkeys).” 


Gay: Tales. 

Qui’etist (4). One who believes 
that the most perfect state of man is 
when the spirit ceases to exercise any of 
its functions, and is wholly passive. 
This sect has cropped up at sundry 
times ; but the last who revived it was 
Michael Moli’nos, a Spanish priest, in 
the seventeenth century. 


Quie’tus. The writ of discharge 
formerly granted to those barons and 
kmghts who personally attended the 
king on a foreign expedition. At their 
discharge they were exempt from the 
claim of scutage or knight’s fee. Sub- 
sequently the term was applied to the 
acquittance which a sheriff receives on 
settling his account at the Exchequer; 
and, later still, to any discharge of an 
account: thus Webster says— 

κε You had the trick in audit-time to be sick till 
I had signed your quietus.”—Duchess of Mulfy 
(1623). 

Quictus, A severe blow; a settler; 
death, or discharge from life. 


“Who would fardels hear... 
When he himself might his quietus make 
Witha bare bodkin?” 
Shakespeare: Hamlet, iii. 1. 


Quill-drivers. Writing clerks. 


Quillet. An evasion. In French 
‘“‘ pleadings ’’ each separate allegation in 
the plaintiff's charge, and every distinct 
plea in the defendant’s answer used to 
begin with gw il est ; whence our quillet, 
to signify a false charge, or an evasive 
answer, 
“Oh, some authority how to proceed ; 

Some tricks, some quillets, how τὸ cheat the 


devil. Ὁ 
Shakespeare : Love's Labour's Lost, iy. 3. 


Quilp. A hideous dwarf, both fierce 


Quinapalus 


1030 


Quixada 


and cunning, in The Old Curiosity Shop, 
by Dickens. 

Quinap’alus. The Mrs. Harris of 
‘authorities in citations,’’ If anyone 
wishes to clench an argument by some 
quotation, let him cite this ponderous 
collection, 

“What says Quinapalus: ‘Better a witty fool, 
than a foolish wit.’—Shakespeare: Twelfth Night, 
i. δ. 

Quinbus Fiestrin, The man-moun- 
tain. So the Lilliputians called Gulliver 
(chap. ii.). Gay hasan ode to this giant. 

“ Bards of old of him told, 
When they said Atlas’ head 
Propped the skies.” 
Guy: Lilliputian Ode. 

Quince (Peicr). A carpenter, and 
manager of the play in Midsummer 
Night’s Dream. He is noted for some 
strange compounds, such as laughable 
tragedy, lamentable comedy, tragical 
mirth, etc. 

Quino’nes (Svero de), in the reign of 
Juan IL., with nine other cavaliers, held 
the bridge of Orbigo against all comers 
for thirty-six days, overthrowing in that 
time seventy-eight knights of Spain and 
France. Quinones had challenged the 
world, and such was the result. 

Quinquagesima Sunday (Latin, 
Jiftieth). Shrove Sunday, or the first 
day of the week which contains Ash- 
Wednesday. It is so calied because in 
round numbers it is the fiftieth day be- 
fore Easter. 

Quinsy. This is a curious abbrevia- 
tion. The Latin word is eynanchia, and 
the Greek word fynanché, from huon 
anche, dog strangulation, because persons 
suffering from quinsy throw open the 
mouth like dogs, especially mad dogs. 
From hwnmiche comes kwanchy, kuansy, 
quiusy. 

Quintessence. The fifth essence. 
The ancient Greeks said there are four 
elements or forms in which matter can 
exist—fire, or the imponderable form ; 
air, or the gaseous form; water, or the 
liquid form; and earth, or the solid form. 
The Pythagore’ans added a fifth, which 
they called ether, more subtile and pure 
than fire, and possessed of an orbicular 
motion. This element, which flew up- 
wards at creation, and out of which the 
stars were made, was called the fi/th 
essence ; quintessence therefore means 
the most subtile extract of a body that 
can be procured. It is quite an error to 
suppose that the word means an essence 
five times distilled, and that the term 
came from the alchemists. Horace 
speaks of ‘‘ kisses which Venus has 


imbued with the quintessence of her 
own nectar.”’ 


“Swift to their several quarters hasted then 
The cumbrous elements—earth, flood, air, fire ; 
But this ethereal quintessence of heaven 
Flew upward ... and turned to stars 
Nuwinberlessas thou seest.” 
Milton : Paradise Lost, iii. 716. 
QuintiVians. Disciples of Quintilia, 
held to be a prophetess. These heretical 
Christians made the Eucharist of bread 
and cheese, and allowed women to be- 


come priests and bishops. 


Quip Medest (7ic). Sir, it was done 
to please myself. Touchstone says: ‘‘ If 
I sent a person word that his beard was 
not well cut, and he replied he cut 
it to please himself,’’ he would answer 
with the quip modest, which is six re- 
moves from the lie direct ; or, rather, the 
lie direct in the sixth degree. 

Quis custodiet Custo’des? [The 
shepherds keep watch over the sheep], 
but who is there to keep watch over the 
shepherds ? 

Quisquilie. Light, dry fragments 
of things; the small twigs and leaves 
which fall from trees; hence rubbish, 
refuse. 

Quit. Discharged from an obligation, 
“acquitted.” 

“To John I owed great obligation ; 
But John unhappily thought fit 
To publish it to all the nation— 
Now I and Jolin are fairly quit.” 
Prior. 

Cry quits. When two boys quarrel, 
and one has had enough, he says, ‘‘ Cry 
quits,’’ meaning, ‘‘ Let us leave off, and 
call ita drawn game.”’? So inan unequal 
distribution, he who has the largest share 
restores a portion and ‘‘cries quits,” 
meaning that he has made the distribu- 
tion equal. Flere quit means ‘‘acquittal”’ 
or discharge. 

Double or quits. In gambling, especi- 
ally in a small way, one of the players 
says to the other, ‘‘ Double or quits? ”’ 
—-that is, the next stake shall be double 
the present one, or the winnings shall 
be returned to the loser, in which case 
both players would leave off as they 
began. 


Quit Rent. A rent formerly paid 
by a tenant whereby he was released 
from feudal service. 


Quixa’da ((utierrc). Lord of Villa- 
garcia. He discharged a javelin at Sire 
de Haburdin with such force as to pierce 
the left shoulder, overthrow the knight, 
and pin him tothe ground. Don Quixote 
calls himself a descendant of this brave 
knight. 


Quixote 


1031 R 


Quixote (Don) is intended for the 
Duke of Lerma. (Rawdon Brown.) 

Don Quixote. The romance so called 
is a merciless satire by Cervantes on the 
chivalric romances of the Middle Ages, 
and had the excellent effect of putting 
an end to knight-errantry. 

Don Quixote’s horse. Ros'inante (Span- 
ish, 7o0cin-ante, a jade previously). (See 
HORSE.) 

The wooden-pin wing-horse on which 
he and Sancho Panza mounted to achieve 
the liberation of Dolori’da and her com- 
panions was called Algie’ro Clavile'no 
(wooden-pin wing -bearer). 


Quixote of the North. Charles 
XII. of Sweden, sometimes called the 
Madman. (1682, 1697-1718.) 


Quixotic. Having foolish and un- 
practical ideas of honour, or schemes for 
the general good, like Don Quixote, a 
half-crazy reformer or knight of the 
supposed distressed. 


Quiz. One who banters or chaffs 
another. Daly, manager of the Dublin 
theatre, laid a wager that he would in- 
troduce into the language within twenty- 
four hours a new word of no meaning. 
Accordingly, on every wall, or all places 
accessible, were chalked up the four 
mystic letters, and all Dublin was in- 
quiring what they meant. The wager 
was won, and the word remains current 
in our language. 


Quo Warranto. A writ against a 
defendant (whether an individual or a 
corporation) who lays claim to something 
he has no right to; so named because 
the offender is called upon to show quo 
warranto [rem] usurpa'vit (by what right 
or authority he lays claim to the matter 
of dispute). 


Quod. To be in quod—in prison. A 
corruption of quad, which is a contrac- 
tion of quadrangle. The quadrangle is 
the prison enclosure in which the prison- 
ers are allowed to walk, and where 
whippings used to be inflicted. 

“Flogged and whipped in quod.” 
ITughes : Tom Brown's Schooldays. 

Quodling (The Rev. Mr.). Chaplain 
to the Duke of Buckingham. (Sir 
Walter Scott: Peveril of the Peak.) 

“ Why, said the duke, ‘I had caused my little 
Quodling to go through his oration thus: That 
whatever evil reports had passed current during 
the lifetime of the worthy matron whom they had 
restored to dust that day, Malice herself could not 
deny that she was born well, married well, lived 
well, and died well ; since she was born in Shad- 
well, married to Cresswell, lived in Camberwell 
poe died in Bridewell.’—Peveril of the Peak, chap. 
UG Se 


Quondam (Latin). Former. We 
say, He is a quondam schoolfellow—my 
former schoolfellow ; my quondam friend, 
the quondam candidate, ete.; also the 
quondam chancellor, ete. 

“My quondam barber, but ‘ his lordship’ now.” 
Dryden. 

Quo’rum. Such a number of persons 
as are necessary to make up a committee 
or board; or certain justices without 
the presence of whom the rest cannot 
act. Thus, suppose the commission to 
be named A, B, Ὁ, D, E, ete., it would 
run—‘‘ Of these I wish [A, B, C, Ὁ, 
or ἘΠ to be one”? (georum wnum esse 
volumus). These honoured names are 
called ‘* Justices of the Quorum.’’ 
Slender calls Justice Shallow justice of 
the peace and quorum. (Shakespeare: 
Merry Wives of Windsor, i. 1.) 

Quos Ego. A threat of punishment 
for disobedience. The words are from 
Virgil’s -dineid (i. 135), and were 
uttered by Neptune to the disobedient 
and rebellious winds. 

“Neptune bad but to appear and utter a quos ego 
for these wind-bags fo collapse,and hecome the 
most subservient of salaried public servants.“— 
Truth, January, 1886. 

Quot. Quotlinguas calles, tot homines 
vales, Asmany languages as you know, 
so many separate individuals you are 
worth, Attributed to Charles V. 


Quota (Latin). The allotted portion 
or share ; the rate assigned to each. Thus 
we say, ‘‘ Every man is to pay his quota 
towards the feast.”’ 


Quotem (Caleb). A parish clerk and 
Jack-of-all-trades, in Zhe Wags of 
Windsor, by Colman. 


R 


RZ in prescriptions. The ornamental 
part of this letter is the symbol of Jupiter 
(2), under whose special protection all 
medicines were placed. The letter itself 
(Recipe, take) and its flourish may be 
thus paraphrased: ‘‘ Under the good 
auspices of Jove, the patron of medi- 
cines, take the following drugs in the 
proportions set down.’”’ It has been 
suggested that the symbol is for Ltespon- 
sum Raphae'lis, from the assertion of 
Dr. Napier and other physicians of the 
seventeenth century, that the angel 
Raphael imparted them. 


B® is called the dog-letter, because a 
dog in snarling utters the letter r-r-r-r, 


ἘΠ 2 5 ἘΣ 


r-r, r-r-r-r-r, etc.—sometimes preceded 
by ag. 


“Trritata canis quod RR quam Bone ee, 
τε, 
“TR] that’s the dog's name. Τὸ is for the dog.” 
—Shakespeare : Romeo and Juliet, il. 4. 


The three 108. Sir William Curtis 
being asked to give a toast, said, ‘‘T will 
give you the three R’s—writing, read- 
ing, and arithmetic.’ 


“The House is aware that no payment is made 
except on the ‘three R’s.’”—Mr. Cory, M.P.: 
Address to the House of Commons, February 28th, 
1807, 

Ἐ.Α.Ρ. Rupees, annas, and pies, 


in India; corresponding to our £s, d. 
R.I.P. Requiescat in pace. 


R.M.T. In the reign of William 111. 
all child-stealers (comprachios) appre- 
hended were branded with red-hot iron: 
R (vogue) on the shoulders; M (man- 
slayer) on the right-hand ; and T (thief) 
on the left. 


Rab/iagas. A demagogue in the 
kingdom of the king of Monaco. He 
was won over to the court party by 
being invited to dine at the palace. (JZ. 
Sardou : Rabagas, 1872.) 

Rabbi Abron of Trent. A ficti- 
tious sage and wonderful linguist, ‘‘ who 
knew the nature of all manner of herbs, 
beasts, and minerals.”” (Reynard the 
Fox, xii.) 

Rabbi Bar-Coch’ba, in the reign of 
the Emperor Hadrian, made the Jews 
believe that he was the Messiah, because 


he had the art of breathing fire. (Beck- 
mann: History of Inventions.) 
Rabbit. 4 Ielsh rabbit. Toasted 


rather bread and cheese 
toasted together, (Qy. ‘‘ rare-bit.’’) 


Rab'elais. The English Rabelais. 
Swift, Sterne, and Thomas Amory have 
been so called. Voltaire so calls Swift. 

The modern Rabelais. William Maginn 
(1794-1842). 

Rabelais’ Dodge. Rabelais one day 
was at a country inn, and finding he had 
no money to pay his score, got himself 
arrested as a traitor who was forming a 
project to poison the princes. He was 
immediately sent to Paris and brought 
before the magistrates, but, as no tittle 
of evidence was found against him, was 
liberated forthwith. By this artifice he 
not only got out of his difficulty at the 
inn, but he also got back to Paris free 
of expense. Fathered on Tarleton also, 


Rabelais‘ian Licence. The wild 
grotesque of Rabelais, whether in words 
or artistic illustrations. 


cheese, or 


1032 


Races 


Rabica‘no or Rabican. The name 
of Astolpho’s horse, Its sire was Wind, 
and its dam Fire. It fed on unearthly 
food. (Orlando Furioso.) 

Argalia’s steed in Orlando Znnamorato 
is called by the same name. (See Horse.) 


Raboin or Rabuino (French). The 
devil; so called from the Spanish swbo 
(a tail). In the medieval ages it was 
vulgarly asserted that the Jews were 
born with tails; this arose from a con- 
fusion of the word rabbi or rabbins with 
raboin or rabuino. 

Rab’sheka, in the satire of Absalom 
and Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is 
meant for Sir Thomas Player. Rab- 
shakeh was the officer sent by Senna- 
cherib to summon the Jews to surrender, 
and he told them insolently that resist- 
ance was in vain, (2 Kings xviii.) 
“Next him, let railing Rabsheka have place— 

So full of zeal, he has no need of grace.” 


(Pt. ii.) 

Raby (Avrora). The model of this 
exquisite sketch was Miss Millbank, as 
she appeared to Lord Byron when he 
first knew her. Miss Millpond (a little 
farther on in the same canto) is the 
same lady after marriage. In cantoi., 
Donna ‘Inez is an enlarged portrait of 
the same person. Lord Byron describes 
himself in the first instance under the 
character of Don Juan, and in the last 
as Don José. 


Races. (roodwood Races. So called 
from Goodwood Park, in which they are 
held, They begin the last Tuesday of 
July, and continue four days, of which 
Thursday (the ‘‘ cup-day ’’) is the princi- 
pal. These races are very select, and 
admirably conducted. Goodwood Park 
was purchased by Charles, first Duke of 
Richmond, of the Compton family, then 
resident in East Lav’ant, a village two 
miles north of Chichester. 

The Newmarket Races. There are 
seven annual race meetings at New- 
market: (1) The Craven ; (2) first spring ; 
(3). second spring; (4) July; (4) first 
October ; (6) second October; (7) the 
Houghton. 

The Epsom. So called from Epsom 
Downs, where they are held. They last 
four days, 

The Derby. The second day (Wed- 
nesday) of the great May meeting at 
Epsom, in Surrey; so called from the 
Earl of Derby, who instituted the stakes 
in 1780. This is the great ‘Classic 
Race’”’ for colts and fillies three years 


old. 
The Oaks. The fourth day (Friday) 


Races 


of the great Epsom races ; so called from 
“‘Tambert’s Oaks,’’ erected on lease by 
the ‘‘ Hunter’s Club.’’ The Oaks estate 
passed to the Derby family, and the 
twelfth earl established the stakes so 
called. This is the great ‘‘ classic race”’ 
for fillies three years old. 

The St. Leger. The great Doncaster 
race; so called from Colonel St. Leger, 
who founded the stakes in 1776. This 
is the great ‘‘classic race”? for both 
colts and fillies of three years old. 
Horses that have competed in the Derby 
and Oaks may take part in the St. Leger, 

Ascot Races, held on Ascot Heath, in 
Berks. 

Races (Lengths run). 

(i) Under a mile and a half :-— 

The Newmarket Stakes, 1 mile 2 fur- 
longs. : 

The Prince of Wales’s Stakes (at 
Leicester), rather less, 

The Eclipse Stakes, 14 mile. 

The Kempton Park Stakes, 11 mile. 

The Lancashire Plate (at the Sep- 
tember Manchester meeting) is only 7 
furlongs. 


Tn 1890 the Duke of Portland won all these five 
races; Ayrshire won two of them,and Donovan 
the other three. 


(ii) Long distances (between 12 and 3 
miles) :— 

The Great Northampton Stakes, 12 
mile. 

Ascot (Gold Vase), 2 miles. 

Ascot (Gold Cup), 24 miles. 

Ascot (Alexander Plate), 3 miles, 

The Chester Cup, 21 miles. 

The Great Metropolitan Stakes (in the 
Epsom Spring Meeting), 2} miles. 

The Hardwicke Stakes, the Goodwood 
Cup, 24 miles (in July), and the Don- 
caster Cup, 2°634 miles (in September), 
are long races. 


Rach’aders. The second tribe of 
giants or evil genii, who had frequently 
made the earth subject to their kings, 
but were ultimately punished by Shiva 
and Vishnoo, (Jndian mythology.) 


Rache. A ‘‘setter,’’ or rather a dog 
said to hunt wild beasts, birds, and even 
fishes by scent. The female was called a 
brache—i.e. bitch-rache, (Saxon, rece ; 
French, draque.) 


“A leyshe of ratches to renne an hare.”"— 
Skelton: Magnificence. 


Rack. A flying scud, drifting clouds, 
{πε ατιθίο, rek, drift; verb, vecka, to 
rive.) 
‘The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, 
The solemn temples, the great globe itself, 
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve 


And... leaye not a rack hebind.” ᾿ 
Shakespeare : Tempest, ἵν, 1. 


1033 


Radegaste 


Rack, he instrument of torture so 
called was a frame in which a man was 
fastened, and his arms and legs were 
stretched till the body was lifted by the 
tension several inches from the floor. 
Not unfrequently the limbs were forced 
thereby out of their sockets. Coke says 
that the rack was first introduced into 
the Tower by the Duke of Exeter, con- 
stable of the Tower, in 1447, whence it 
was called the ‘‘Duke of Exeter’s 
daughter.”? (Dutch, rak ; verb, rakken, 
to stretch; Danish, vag ; Anglo-Saxon, 
reac.) 


Rack-rent. The actual value or 
rent of a tenement, and not that modi- 
fied form on which the rates and taxes 
are usually levied. (Saxon, s@can, to 
stretch ; Dutch, racken.) 

“A rent which is equivalent, or nearly equiva- 
lent in amount, to the full annual value of the 
land, is a rack-rent.’"—Encyclopedia Britannica, 
vol. xx. p. 403, 

Rack and Manger. 

To lie at rack and manger. 
at reckless expense. 

“When Virtue was a country maide, 
And had no skill to set up trade, 
She came up with a carrier’s jade, 

And lay at rack and manger.” 
Life of Robin Goodfellow. 1628.) 

Rack and Ruin. Utter destitution. 
Here ‘‘ rack’’ is a variety of wrack and 
wreck. 

“ The worst of all University snobs are those 
unfortunates who go to rack and ruin from their 
desire to ape their betters.’—Thackeray: Book of 
Snobs, chap. Xv. p. 87. 

Racket. Noise or confusion, like that 
of persons playing racket or tennis. 


Racy. Having distinctive piquancy, 
as racy wine. It was first applied to 
wine, and, according to Cowley, comes 
to us from the Spanish and Portuguese 
raiz (root), meaning having a radical or 
distinct flavour ; but probably it is a 
corruption of ‘‘ relishy ’’ (French, reléché, 
flavorous). 

“Rich, racy verse, in which we see 


The soil from which they come, taste, smell, and 
see.” Cowley. 


Housekeeping. 
To live 


Racy Style. Piquant composition, 
the very opposite of mawkish. 


Radcliffe Library (Oxford). 
Founded by Dr. John Radcliffe, of 
Wakefield, Yorkshire. (1650-1714.) 

“When King William [ITI.] consulted [Rad- 
cliffe] on his swollen ankles and thin body, Rad- 
cliffe said, ‘I would not have your Majesty’s two 
legs for your three kingdoms.’’’—Leigh Hunt: 
The Town, chap. V1. 

Radegaste. A tutelary god of the 
Slavi. The head was that of a cow, 
the breast was covered with an egis, 
the left hand held a spear, and a 


Radegund 


cock surmounted its helmet. 
mythology.) 


Rad@’egund. Queen of the Am’azons, 
“half like a man.’’ Getting the better 
of Sir Art’egal in a single combat, she 
compelled him to dress in ‘‘ woman’s 
weeds,’’ with a white apron before him, 
and to spin flax. Brit’omart, being in- 
formed by Talus of his captivity, went to 
the rescue, cut off the Amazon’s head, 
and liberated her knight. (Spenser: 
Facrie Queene, book ν. 4-7.) 

St. Radegonde or Radegund, wife of 
Clothaire, King of France. 

St. Radegonde’s lifted stone. A stone 
sixty feet in circumference, placed on 
five supporting stones, said by the his- 
torians of Poitou to have been so ar- 
ranged in 1478, to commemorate a great 
fair held on the spot in the October of 
that year, The country people insist 
that Queen Radegonde brought the 
impost stone on her head, and the five 
uprights in her apron, and arranged 
them all as they appear to this day. 


Radevore (3 syl.). Tapestry. 


This woful lady ylern’d had in youthe 
So that she worken and embrowden kouthe, 
Ard weven in stole [the loom] the radevore, 
As hyt of wommen had be woved yore.” 
Chaucer. 
Radical, An ultra-Liberal, verging 
ou republican opinions. The term was 
first applied as a party name in 1818 to 
Henry Hunt, Major Cartwright, and 
others of the same clique, who wished to 
introduce radical reform in the repre- 
sentative system, and not merely to 
distranchise and enfranchise a borough 
or two. Lord Bolingbroke, in his Dis- 
courses on Parties, says, ‘‘ Such a remedy 
might have wrought a radical cure of 
the evil that threatens our constitution.” 


(Slavonic 


Radiometer. The name ofan instru- 
ment invented by Crookes for measuring 
the mechanical effect of radiant energy. 
it is like a miniature anemometer, and 
is made to revolve by the action of 
light, the cups of the anemometer being 
replaced by discs coloured white on one 
side and black on the other, and the in- 
strument is enclosed in a glass globe from 
which the air has been exhausted, so that 
no heat is transmitted. 

Radit Usquead Cutem. He fleeced 
him to the skin; he sucked him dry. 
He shaved off all his hair (instead of 
only trimming it). 

Rag. A tatter, hence a remnant, 
hence a vagabond or ragamuffin. 


© Lash hence these overweening rags of France.” 
Shakespeare: Richard 11T., v. 3 


1034 


Ragnarok 


Rag. A cant term for a farthing. 
Paper money not easily convertible is 
called ‘‘ rag-money,”’ 


“Money by me? Heart and good-will you might, 

But surely, master, not a rag of money.” 

Shakespeare: Comedy of Errors, ἵν. 4. 

Rag (Thc). The Army and Navy 
Club. ‘The rag,’ of course, is the 
flag. 

“«By the way, come and dine to-night at the 
Rag, said the major.’—Vruth, Queer Story, April 1, 
1886. 

Rag-water. Whisky. 
Jargon.) 

Rags of Antisthenes. ans: pride 
may be seen peering through the rags of 
Antis'thenés’ doublet. (See ANTISTHENES.) 


( Thieves’ 


Rags and Jags. Rags and tatters. 
A jagged edge is one that is toothed. 
“ Hark, hark ! the dogs do bark, 
The beggars are coming to town ; 
Some in rags and some in jags, 
And some in silken gown.” 
Nursery Rhyme. 
Ragamuffin (French, maroufle). A 
muff or muffin is a poor thing of a 
creature, a ‘“‘regular muff;’’ so that a 
ragamuffin is a sorry creature in rags. 


“T have led my ragamuffins where they are 
peppered.”"—Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV., v.3. 


Ragged Robin. A wild-flower. The 
word is used by Tennyson to mean a 
pretty damsel in ragged clothes. 

“ The prince 
Hath picked a ragged robin from the hedge.” 
Tennyson: Idylls of the King ; Enid, 

Raghu. A legendary king of Oude, 
belonging to the dynasty of the Sun. 
The poem called the faghw-vaisa, in 
nineteen cantos, gives the history of these 
mythic kings, 


Ragman Roll originally meant the 
“Statute of Rageman”’ (De Ragemannis), 
a legate of Scotland, who compelled all 
the clergy to give a true account of their 
benefices, that they might be taxed at 
Rome accordingly. Subsequently it was 
applied to the four great rolls of parch- 
ment recording the acts of fealty and 
homage done by the Scotch nobility to 
Edward I. in 1296; these four rolls con- 
sisted of thirty-five pieces sewn together, 
The originals perished, but a record of 
them is preserved in the Rolls House, 
Chancery Lane. 


Ragnarok [twilight of the gods|. The 
day of doom, when the present world 
and all its inhabitants will be annihilated. 
Vidar of Vali will survive the conflagra- 
tion, and reconstruct the universe on 


Ragout 


1085 


Railways 


an imperishable basis. 
mythology.) 
“ And, Fritbiof, mayst thou sleep away 
Till Ragnarok, if such thy will.” 
Frithiof-Saga: £rithiof's Joy. 

Ragout is something ‘‘ more-ish,”’ 
something you will be served twice to. 
(Latin, e-gustus, tasted again ; French, 
re-gotite.) 


(Scandinavian 


Ra‘hu. Thedemon thatcauses eclipses, 
One day Rahu stole into Valhalla to 
quaff some of the nectar of immortality. 
He was discovered by the Sun and Moon, 
who informed against him, and Vishnu 
cut off his head. As he had already 
taken some of the nectar into his mouth, 
the head was immortal, and he ever after- 
wards hunted the Sun and Moon, which 
he caught occasionally, causing eclipses. 


(Hindu niythology.) 


Rail. 170 sit on the rail. To shuffle 
off a direct answer ; to hedge or to fence ; 
to reserve the decision of one’s vote. 
Here rail means the fence, and ‘to sit 
on the rail’’ to sit on one side. A com- 
mon American phrase. 

“If hesaid ‘ Yes, there wasan end toany church 
supportat once; if ‘No, he might as well go home 
atonce. So he tried to sit on the rajl again.”—7. 
Terrell: Lady Deliar, chap. 1. 

Railway Abtrcviations. 

C.& D. Collected and delivered—7.c. 
the rate quoted includes the entire charge 
from sender to consignee. Such goods 
are collected by the railway company and 
delivered according to the address at the 
price stated. 

S. to S. From station to station. 
This does not include collecting and de- 
livering. 

©: ἘΞ Owner's risk. 

C. R. Compzany’s risk. 

Ο. C.S. On company’s service ; such 
parcels go free. 

C. by B. Collection from the sender 
to the barge, both included. 

O/C. Overcharged. 

O/S. Outstanding. 


Railway King. George Hudson, 
of Yorkshire, chairman of the North 
Midland Company, and for a time the 
Dictator of the railway speculations. 
In one day he cleared the large sum of 
£100,000. It was the Rev. Sydney 
Smith who gave him this designation. 
(1800-1871.) 

Railway Signals. 
NALS.) 


Railways. 
A. & B. R. Aylesbury and Bucking- 
ham Railway. 


(See Frac Sie- 


B. &L. J. R. Bourn and Lynn Joint 


Railway. 
B. & M. R. Brecon and Merthyr 
Railway. 


Β. & N.C. R. Belfast and Northern 
Counties Railway. 

Cal. R. Caledonian Railway. 

Cam. R. Cambrian Railway. 

C.K. ἃ Ρ. R. Cockermouth, Keswick, 
and Penrith Railway. 

C. L. C. Cheshire Lines Committee, 
embracing the G. N., M. 8. & L., and 
Maid. Coys. 

C. V. RB. 
Railway. 

C. W. & C. R. Central Wales and 
Carmarthen Railway. 

C. ἃ C. R. Carmarthen and Cardigan 
Railway. 

DI Re Ce: 
Corwen Railway. 

I. L. R. East London Railway. 

E.& W.J.R. East and West Junc- 
tion Railway. 

Fur. R. Furness Railway. 

α. & K.R. Garstang and Knotend 
Railway. 

α. & 5S. W. R. Glasgow and South- 
Western Railway. 

G. E. R. Great Eastern Railway. 

G. Ν. 5. R. Great Northern of Scot- 
land Railway. 

G. Ν. R. Great Northern Railway. 

G. N. 1. R. Great Northern of Ire- 
land Railway. 

G. 5. ἃ W. R. Great Southern and 
Western Railway. 

G. W. R. Great Western Railway. 

H.R. Highland Railway. 


Colne Valley and Halstead 


Denbigh, Ruthin, and 


I, of M. R. [1516 of Man Railway. 

T. of ὟΝ. R. 1516 of Wight Railway. 

L. & Y.R. Lancashire and Yorkshire 
Tiailway. 


τ B: ᾧ S.C. R. Lordon, Brighton, 
and South Coast Railway. 

L. ©. ἃ Ὁ. R. London, Chatham, 
and Dover Railway. 

L. Ὁ. ἃ Τῇ. C. R. Lancashire, Derby, 
and Bast Coast Railway. 

L. & N. W. R. London and North- 
Western Railway. 
SL Abe ὁ Ἀπὸ Nilo Jat 
Western Railway. 

L. T. ἃ S.R. London, Tilbury, and 
Southend Railway. 

M. & M. R. Manchester and Milford 
Railway. 

M.S. & L. R. Manchester, Sheffield, 
and Lincolnshire Railway. 

M.S. J. & A. R. Manchester, South 
Junction, and Altrincham Railway. 

M. & C, R. Maryport and Carlisle 
Railway, 


London and South- 


Rain 


1036 


Raleigh 


Met. R. Metropolitan Railway. 

Met. D. R. Metropolitan District 
Railway. 

M. R. Midland Railway. 

M. W.R. Mid-Wales Railway. 

M. G. W.I. R. Midland Great-Wes- 
tern of Ireland Railway. 


N. ἃ B. R. Neath and Brecon Rail- 
way. 
N. & B. J. R. Northampton and 


Banbury Junction Railway. 


N. B. R. North British Railway. 

N. E. R. North-Eastern Railway. 

N. ie R. North London Railway. 

N.S. R. North Staffordshire Rail- 
way. 

P. & T. R. Pembroke and Tenby 
Railway. 

R. R. Rhymney Railway. 


S. &W. &S.B.R. Severn and Wye 
and Severn Bridge Railway. 

5. & Ὁ. J. R. Somerset and Dorset 
Joint Railway. 

8. E. R. South-Eastern Railway. 

5. M. & A. R. Swindon, Marl- 
borough, and Andover Railway. 

ΤῸ V. R. Taff Vale Railway. 

W.&L.R. Waterford and Limerick 
Railway. 

W. ἃ P. R. R. Watlington and 
Princes Risboro’ Railway. 

W. R. Wigtownshire Railway. 

W.M.&C.Q.R. Wrexham, Mold, 
and Connah’s Quay Railway. 


Rain. 7170 rain cats and dogs. In 
northern mythology the cat. is supposed 
to have great influence on the weather, 
and English sailors still say, ‘‘ The cat 
has a gale of wind in her tail,’’ when she 
is unusually frisky. Witches that rode 
upon the storms were said to assume the 
form of cats ; and the stormy north-west 
wind is called the cat’s-nose in the Harz 
even at the present day. 

The dog is a signal of wind, like the 
wolf, both which animals were attendants 
of Odin, the storm-god. In old German 
pictures the wind is figured as the ‘‘ head 
of a dog or wolf,’ from which blasts 
issue. 

The cat therefore symbolises the down- 
pouring rain, and the dog the strong 
gusts of wind which accompany a rain- 
storm ; and a “rain of cats and dogs”’ is 
a heavy rain with wind. (See CaT AND 
Doa.) 

The French catadoupe or catadupe 
means a waterfall. 


Rain Gauge. An instrument or con- 
trivance for measuring the amount of 
rain which falls on a given surface, 


Rainbow. (See CIRCLE oF ULLOA,) 


Rainbow Chasers. Problematical 
politicians and reformers, who chase 
rainbows, which cannot possibly be 
caught, to ‘‘find the pot of gold at the 
foot. thereof.” This alludes to an old 
joke, that a pot of gold can be dug up 
where the rainbow touches the earth. 


Raining Tree (Zhe). The Til, a 
linden-tree of the Canaries, mentioned 
by a host of persons. Mandelolo de- 
scribes it minutely, and tells us that the 
water which falls from this tree suffices 
for a plentiful supply for men and 
beasts of the whole island of Fierro, 
which contains no river. Glas assures 
us that ‘‘the existence of such a tree is 
firmly believed in the Canaries ’”’ (His- 
tory of the Canary Islands). Cordeyro 
(Historia Insulana, book ii. chap. v.) says 
it isan emblem of the Trinity, and that 
the rain is called Agua Santa. Without 
doubt a rain falls from some trees (as 
the lime) in hot weather. 


Rainy Day (4). Evil times. 
Lay by something for a rainy day. 
Save something against evil times. 


Raise the Wind. To obtain ready 
money by hook or crook. <A sea phrase. 
What wind is to a ship, money is to 
commerce. 

“T’ve tried queer ways 
The wind to raise, 
But ne'er had such a blow.” 
Judy (My Lost Dog), Mar. 27, 1889. 

Rajah. (Sanskrit for king, cognate 
with the Latin reg’ orrex.) Maha-rajah 
means the ‘‘ great rajah.”’ 


Rake. A libertine. A contraction 
of rakehell, used by Milton and others, 


* And far away amid their rakehell bands 
They speed a lady left all succourless.” 


Francis Quarles. 
Rak’shas. Evil spirits who guard 
the treasures of Kuvera, the god of 
riches. They haunt cemeteries and de- 
vour human beings ; assume any shape 
at will, and their. strength increases as 
the day declines. Some are hideously 


ugly, but others, especially the female 


spirits, allure by their beauty. (Hindu 
mythology.) 
Rakush. Rustem’s horse in the Shah 


Nameh of Firdusi, the Homer of Koras- 
san. (See HORSE.) 


Raleigh. Sir Walter Scott introduces 
in Kenilworth the tradition of his laying 
down his cloak on a miry spot for the 
queen to step on. 


“ Hark ye, Master Raleigh, see thou fail not to 
wear thy muddy cloak, in token of penitence, till 
our pleasure he further known.’—Sir Wi alter 
Scott; Kenilworth, chap. xy. 


Rally 


1037 


Raminagobris 


Rally is ve-alligo, to bind together 
again. (French vadlier.) In Spenser it 
is spelt re-allie— 

* Before they could new counsels re-allie.” 

Faérie Queene. 
“ Yes, we'll rally round the flag, boys, 
We'll rally once again.” 
G. Ε΄. Root : Battle-cry of Freedom, stanza i. 

Ralph or Ralpho. The squire of 
Hudibras. The model was Isaac Robin- 
son, a zealous butcher in Moorfields, 
always contriving some queer art of 
church government. He represents the 
Independent party, and Hudibras the 
Presbyterian, Ralph rhymes with half 
and safe. 


“He was himself under thetyranny of scruples 
as unreasonable as those of . . Ralpho.’— 
Macaulay. 


Ralph Roister Doister. The title 
of the earliest English comedy ; so called 
from the chief character. Written by 
Nicholas Udall. (16th century.) 


Ram. The usual prize at wrestling 
matches. Thus Chaucer says of his 
Mellere, ‘‘ At wrastlynge he wolde bere 
away the ram.” (Canterbury Tales: 
Prologue 550.) 

Ram Feast (716). May morning is 
so called at Holne, near Dartmoor, be- 
cause on that day a ram is run down in 
the ‘‘ Ploy Field.’ It is roasted whole, 
with its skin and fur, close by a granite 
pillar. At mid-day a scramble takes 
place for a slice, which is supposed to 
bring luck to those who get it. Said to 
be a relic of Baal worship in England. 


Ram and Teazle (Zhe). <A public- 
house sign, is in compliment to the 
Clothiers’ Company. The sw with the 
golden fleece is emblematical of wool, 
and the ¢eaz/le is used for raising the nap 
of wool spun and woven into cloth. 


Ram of the Zodiac (Zc). This is 
the famous Chrysomallon, whose golden 
fleece was stolen by Jason in his Ar- 
gonautic expedition. It was transposed 
to the stars, and made the first sign of 
the Zodiac. 

The Vernal signs the Ram begins τ: 

Then comes the Bull ; in May the Twins: 

The Crab in June ; next Leo shines ; 

And Virgo ends the northern signs., F.C. B. 

Ram’s Horn (4). A loud, vulgar, 
unpolished speaker. A smooth-tongued 
orator is called a * silver trumpet.”’ 


Rama. 
Vishnu. 

The first was the fish ; the second, the 
tortoise ; the third, the boar ; the fourth, 
the man-lion ; the fifth, the dwarf; the 
sixth, Parus'u-Rama, son of Jamadagni ; 


The seventh incarnation of 


the seventh, Rama, son of Das’aratha, 
King of Ayodhya ; the eighth, Avishna 
or Crishna ; the ninth, Buddha ; andthe 
last (tenth) will be Aa/ki, and the con- 
summation of all things—a kind of 
millennium. 

Rama performed many wonderful ex- 
ploits, such as killing giants, demons, 
and monsters. He won Sita to wife be- 
cause he was able to bend the bow of 
Siva. 


Rama-Yana. The history of Rama, 
the best great epic poem of ancient India, 
and worthy to be ranked with the Lhad 
of Homer. 


Ram/adan. The ninth month of the 
Mahometan year, and the Mussulman’s 
Lent or Holy Month. 

“November is the financial Ramadan of the 
Sublime Porte.”—The Times. 

That is, when the Turkish Government 
promises all kinds of financial reforms 
and curtailments of national expenses. 


Rambouillet. H4étel de Rambouillet. 
The réunion of rank and literary genius 
on terms of equality; a coterie where 
sparkling wit with polished manners pre- 
vails. The Marquise de Rambouillet, in 
the seventeenth century, reformed the 
French soirées, and purged them of the 
gross morals and licentious conversation 
which at that time prevailed. The pre- 
sent good taste, freedom without licen- 
tiousness, wit without double entendre, 
equality without familiarity, was due to 
this illustrious Italian. The Précieuses 
Ridicules of Moliére was a satire on those 
her imitators who had not her talent and 
good taste. Catherine, Marquise de 
Rambouillet (1588-1665). 


Ramee Samee. The conjurer who 
swallowed swords, and could twist him- 
self into a knot as if he had neither bones 
nor joints. 


Ram’eses (3 syl.). The title of an 
ancient Egyptian dynasty; it means 
Offspring of the Sun. This title was first 
assumed towards the close of the Eigh- 
teenth Dynasty, and ran through the 
Nineteenth. Rameses III. is called 
Rhampsini'tos by Herod’otos. Sesostris 
is supposed to be identical with Rameses 
the Great. (Eses, 1.6. Isis.) 

Ram‘iel (2 syl.). One of the fallen 
angels cast out of heaven, The word 


means one that exalts himself against 
God, 


Raminago’bris. A cat; a vile poet. 
La Fontaine in several of his fables gives 
this name to the cat, Rabelais under 


Rampallian 


1038 


Rape of the Lock 


this name satirises Guillaume Crétin, an 
old French poet in the reigns of Charles 
VIII., Louis XII., and Francois I. 
(Rabelais : Pantagruel, 11. 21.) 


Rampallian. A term of contempt ; 
probably it means a rampant or wanton 
woman ; hence in 4 New Trick to Cheat 
the Devil (1629) we have this line: 
“And bold rampalian-like, swear and 
drink drunk.”’ 

“Away, you scullion! you rampallian! you fus- 
tilarian! J'Il tickle your catastrophe.”—S/uke- 
speare: 2 Henry 1V., il. 1. 

Ramsay the Rich. Mamsay used 
to be called the Creesus of our English 
abbeys. It had only sixty monks of the 
Benedictine order to maintain, and its 
revenues allowed £1,000 a year to the 
abbot, and £100 a year ior each of its 
monks, 

David Ransay. 
near Temple Bar, 

Margaret Ramsay. His daughter, who 
became the bride of Lord Nigel. (Si: 
Walter Scott: Fortunes of Nigel.) 

Ramsbottom (J7s.). A vile speller 
of the Queen’s English. It was the 
signature of Theodore Hook in his letters 
published in the Join Bull newspaper, 
1829. 


Ra’na. Goddess of the sea, and wife 
of the sea-god Aeger. (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

“* May Rana keep them in the deep, 
Asis her wont, 
And no one save thein from the grave,” 
Cried Helgehont.” Ὺ 
Frithiof-Saga; The Banishment, 

Randem-Tandem. A tandem of 
three horses. (University term.) 

Random (Moderich). A young Scotch 
scapegrace in quest of fortune; at one 
time basking in prosperity, at another in 
utter destitution. He is led into dif- 
ferent countries, whose peculiarities are 
described ; and into all sorts of society, 
as that of wits, sharpers, courtiers, 
courtesans, and so on. Though occa- 
sionally lavish, he is inherently mean ; 
and though possessing a dash of humour, 
is contemptibly revengeful. His treat- 
ment of Strap is revolting to a generous 
mind. Strap lends him money in his 
necessity, but the heartless Roderick 
wastes the loan, treats Strap as a mere 
servant, fleeces him at dice, and cuffs 
him when the game is adverse. (Siollett: 
Roderick Random.) 


Rank and File. Soldiers of any 
grade below that of lance-sergeant are 
so called, collectively, in military phrase- 
ology, and any two soldiers of such 


The old watchmaker 


grade are spoken of as ‘‘a file ;”’ thus, 
100 rank and file would equal 40 file, 
that is, 50 men standing behind each 
other in arow. No soldier ever talks of 


Jiles in the plural, or about ‘‘a file of 


fours.”’ As there are two in a ‘‘ rank,’’ 
there is a left file anda vight file; and 
men may move in ‘‘single file”? or in 
“ double file.”’ A line of soldiers drawn 
up side by side or abreast is a rank. 
Rank distinguished by Colour. 
In China the emperor, empress, and 
prince imperial wear yellow ; the other 
wives of the emperor wear violet ; high 
state officers wear blue; officials of 
lower rank wear red; and the general 
public wear black or some dark shade, 


Ranks. Risen fromthe ranks. From 
mean origin ; a self-made man. <A mili- 
tary term applied to an officer who once 
served as a priyate soldier. Such an 
officer is now often called a ‘‘ranker.”’ 

Ran'tipole (3syl.). A harum-scarum 
fellow, a madcap (Dutch, vandten, to 
be in a state of idiotcy or imsanity, 
and pole,a head or person). The late 
Emperor Napoleon III. was called 
Rantipale, for his escapades at Stras- 
bourg and Boulogne. In 1852 I myself 
saw a man commanded by the police to 
leave Paris within twenty-four hours for 
calling his dog Rantipole. 

“Dick, bea little rantipolish."—Colman : Heir- 
at-Law. 

Ranz des Vaches. Simple melo- 
dies played by the Swiss mountaineers 
on their Alp-horn when they drive their 
herds to pasture, or call them home ( pour 
ranger des vaches, to bring the cows to 
their place). 


Rap. Not worth arap. The rap was 
a base halfpenny, intrinsically worth 
about half a farthing, issued for the 
nonce in Ireland in 1721, because small 
coin was so very scarce. There was 
also a coin in Switzerland called a sappe, 
worth the seventh of a penny. 

“Many counterfeits passed about under the 
name of raps.”—Swift: Drapier’s Letters. 

Rape (1 syl.). The division of a 
county. Sussex is divided into six 
rapes, each of which has its river, forest, 
and castle. Herepp is Norwegian for 
a parish district, and rape in Doomsday 
Book is used for a district under military 
jurisdiction. (Icelandic hreppr, a dis- 
trict.) 

Rape of the Lock. Lord Petre, in 
a thoughtless moment of frolic gallantry, 
cut off a lock of Arabella Fermor’s hair ; 
and this liberty gave rise to a bitter feud 


Raphael ‘ 


1039 


Rashleigh, 


between the two families, which Alex- 
ander Pope has worked up into the best 
hercj-comic poem of the language. The 
first.sketch was published in 1712 in two 
cantos. ‘The machinery of sylphs and 
gnomes is most happily conceived. 
Pope, under the name ot Esdras Barne- 
velt, apothecary, says the poem is a 
covert satire on Queen Anne and the 
Barrier Treaty. In the poem the lady 
is called Belinda, and the poet says she 
wore on her neck two curls, one of which 
the baron cut off with a pair of scis- 
sors borrowed of Clarissa, Belinda, in 
anger, demanded back the ringlet, but 
it had flown to the skies and become a 
meteor there. (See CoMA BERENY‘CES. ) 
* Say what strange motive, goddess, could compel 
A well-bred lord to assault a gentle belle ; 
O say, What stranger cause, yet unexplored, 
Could make a gentle belle reject a lord.” 
Introduction to the Poem. 
Raph’ael. The sociable archangel 
who travelled with Tobi’as into Me’dia 
and back again, instructing him on the 
way how to marry Sara and to drive 
away the wicked spirit. Milton intro- 
duces him as sent by God to advertise 
Adam of his danger. (See SEVEN Spintts, ) 
“Raphael, the sociable spirit, hath deigned 
To travel with Tobias,and secured 
His marriage with the seven-times-wedded 
maid.” Paradise Lost, ν. 221-3. 
Raphael, according to Longfellow, is 
the angel of the Sun, who brings to man 
the ‘‘ gift of faith.”’ 


“Tam the angel of the Sun, 
Whose flaming wheels began to run 
_ When God Almighty's breath 
Said to the darkness and the nizht, 
‘Let there be light, and there was light,— 
I bring the gift of faith.” 
Golden Legend : The Miracle Piay, iii. 

St. Raphael, the archangel, is usually 
distinguished in Christian art by a 
pilgrim’s staff, or carryimg a fish, in 
allusion to his aiding Tobias to capture 
the fish which performed the miraculous 
cure of his father’s eyesight. 

The French Raphael. Eustace Lesueur 
(1617-1655). 


Raphael of Cats (The). Godefroi 
Mind, a Swiss painter, noted for his cats. 
(1768-1814. ) 


Rapparee’. A wild Irish plunderer ; 
so called from his being armed with a 
rapary or half-pike. (Irish rappire, a 
robber.) 


Rappee. A coarse species of snufi, 
manutactured from dried tobacco by an 
instrument called in French a 7606, 
‘instrument en metal percé de plusieurs 
trous, dont on se sert pour réduire les 
corps en pulpe ou en fragments. On se 


sert surtout de la rape dans les ménages, 
pour le sucre, le chocolat, le poivre; et 
dans les usines, pour le tabac, les bette- 
raves, les pommes de terre qu’on réduit 
en fécule, ete.”? (Bouillet : Dictionnaire 
des Sciences.) 


Ra'ra A'vis (Latin, a rare bird). A 
phenomenon; a prodigy; a something 
quite out of the common course. Black 
swans are now familiar to us; they are 
natives of Australia, and have given its 
name to the ‘‘Swan river.’? At one 
time a black swan was emphatically a 
vara avis, 

“Nara avis in terris nigroque simillima cygne.” 

Juceial, 

Rare Ben. So Shakespeare called 
Ben Jonson, the dramatist. (1574-1637.) 
Aubrey says that this inscription on his 
tablet in the ‘‘ Poets’ Corner,’’ West- 
minster Abbey, ‘‘ was done at the charge 
of Jack Young (afterwards knighted), 
who, walking there when the grave was 
covering, gave the fellow eighteenpence 
to cut 10. At the late relaying of the 
pavement, this stone was unhappily re- 
moved. When Sir William Davenant 
was interred in Westminster Abbey, 
the inscription on his covering-stone 
was, ‘‘O rare Sir William Davenant”’ 
—showing how nearly the sublime and 
the ridiculous often meet. 


Raree Show, A peep-show; ashow 
carried about in a box. 


Rascal. Originally applied in the 
chase to a lean, worthless deer, then a 
collective term for the commonalty, the 
mob; and popularly to a base fellow. 
Shakespeare says, ‘‘ Horns! the noblest 
deer hath them as huge as the rascal ”’ 
[deer]. Palsgrave calls a starveling 
animal, like the lean kine of Pharaoh, 
‘‘a, rascall refus beest’’ (1530). ‘The 
French have racaille (riff-raft). 

“Come, you thin thing ; come, you rascal.”— 
Shakespeare: 2 Henry 1V., Vv. 4. 

Rascal Counters. Pitiful or paltry 
£s.d. Brutus calls money paltry com- 
pared with friendship, ete. 


* When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous, 
To lock such rascal counters from his friends, 
Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts, 
Dash him to pieces.” Ε 
Shakespeare: Julius Cesar, αν. ὃ. 


Rasher. Aslice, as arasher of bacon, 


Rash'leigh Osbaldistone. An ac- 
complished but deceitful villain, called 
‘the scholar.’’?. He is the youngest of 
the six hopeful sons of Sir Hildebrand 
Osbaldistone. The six brothers were 
nicknamed ‘the sot,’’? ‘‘the bully,” 
‘“the gamekeeper,”’ “ἢ the horse-jockey,”’ 


Rasiel 


‘the fool,’’ and the crafty ‘‘scholar.”’ 
(Six Walter Scott: Rob Roy.) 


Ra’siel. 


The angel who was the 
tutor of Adam. 


( Talmud.) 


Raspberry. Rhyming slang for 
‘heart,’ as “it made my raspberry 
beat.”’ (See Cuivy.) 


Ras’selas. Prince of Abyssinia, in 
Dr. Johnson’s romance so called. 


“*Rasselas’ is a mass of sense, ‘and its moral 
precepts are certainly conveyed in striking and 
happy language, The mad astronomer who im- 
agined that he possessed the regulation of the 
Weather and the distribution of the seasons, is an 
original character in romance; and the happy 
valley in which Rasselas resides is sketched with 
poetical feeling.”—Young. 


Rat. The Egyptians and Phrygians 
deified rats. The people of Basso’ra and 
Cambay to the present time forbid their 
destruction. In Egypt the rat symbol- 
ised ‘‘ utter destruction ;”’ it also sym- 
bolised ‘‘judgment,”’ because rats always 
choose the best bread for their repast. 

Rat. Pliny tells us (bk. viii. ch. lvii.) 
that the Romans drew presages from 
these animals, and to see a white rat 
foreboded good fortune. The bucklers 
at Lanu'vium being gnawed by rats pre- 
saged ill-fortune, and the battle of the 
Marses, fought soon after, confirmed this 
superstition, Prosperine’s veil was em- 
broidered with rats. 

Tvish vats rhymed to death. It was 
once a prevalent opinion that rats in pas- 
turages could be extirpated by anathema- 
tising them in rhyming verse or by me- 
trical charms. This notion is frequently 
alluded to by ancient authors. Thus, 
Ben Jonson says: ‘‘Rhyme them to 
death, as they do Ivish rats ”’ (Poetaster) ; 
Sir Philip Sidney says: ‘‘ Though I will 
not wish unto you .. . to be rimed to 
death, as is said to be done in Ireland ἢ" 
(Defence of Poesie); and Shakespeare 
makes Rosalind say: ‘‘I was never so 
berhymed since. . . 1 was an Irish rat,”’ 
alluding to the Pythagore’an doctrine of 
the transmigration of souls (As You Like 
It, iii. 2). (See CHARM.) 

I smell a vat. Iperceive there is some- 
thing concealed which is mischievous. 
The allusion is to a cat smelling a rat. 


Rat (Zo). To forsake a losing side for 
the stronger party. It is said that rats 
forsake ships not weatherproof. A rat 
is one who rats or deserts his party. 
Hence workmen who work during a 
strike are called ‘ rats,”” 
“ΠΑ ΘΙ ΠΡ wares 
The cup of sorrow from their lips, 
And fly like rats from sinking ships.” 
Swift: Epistle to Mr, Nugent. 


1040 


Raul 


Rat (Un). Apurse. Hence, a young 
boy thief is called a Raton. <A sort of 
pun on the word rapt from the Latin 
vapto, to carry off forcibly. Cowrir Te 
rat, to rob or break into a house at 
night-time. 


To take a rat by the tail, or Prendre un 
rat par la queue, is to cut a purse. A 
phrase dating back to the age of Lonis 
XIII., and inserted in Cotgrave’s Dic- 
tionary. Of course, a cutpurse would 
cut the purse at the string or else he 
would spill the contents. 


Rat, Cat, and Dog. 
“ The Rat, the Cat,and Lovell the Dog, 
Rule all England under the hog.” 

The Rat, i.e. Rat-cliff ; the Cat, i.e. 
Cat-esby ; and Lovel the dog, is Francis, 
Viscount Lovel, the king’s ‘ spaniel.’ 
The hog or boar was the crest of Richard 
III. William Collingham, the author of 
this rhyme (1413), was put to death for 
his pregnant wit. 


Rat-killer. Apollo received this 
aristocratic soubriquet from the follow- 
ing incident :—Crinis, one of his priests, 
having neglected his official duties, 
Apollo sent against him a swarm of 
rats: but the priest, seeing the invaders 
coming, repented and obtained forgive- 
ness of the god, who annihilated the 
swarms which he had sent with his far- 
darting arrows. For this redoubtable 
exploit the sun-god received the appella- 
tion of Apollo the Rat-killer, (Classic 
mythology.) 


Rat’atosk. The squirrel that runs 
up and down the mythological tree 
Yegedrasil’. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Ratten (70). To annoy for refusing 
to join ἃ tiude union, or for not submit- 
ting to its demands. This is done by 
destroying or taking away a workman’s 
tools, or otherwise incapacitating him 
from doing work. ‘‘Torat”’ is to desert 
one’s party ; to work for less than the 
price fixed by a trade union ; and ‘‘ rat- 
ten’’ is to act the part ofarat. (See Rat.) 


Rattlin (Jack). A famous naval 
character in Smollett’s Roderick Random. 
Tom Bowling is another naval character 
in the same novel. 


Raul. Sir Raul di Nangis, the Hu- 
guenot, in love with Valentina, daughter 
of the Comte de St. Bris, governor of the 
Louvre. Being sent for by Marguerite, 
he is offered the hand of Valentina in 
marriage, but rejects it, because he 
fancies she is betrothed to the Comte 
de Nevers, Nevers is slain in the 


Ravana 


1041 


Ravenglass 


Bartholomew massacre, and Valentina 
confesses her love for Raul. They are 
united by Marcello, an old Puritan ser- 
vant, but scarcely is the ceremony ended 
when both are shot by the musketeers 
under the command of St. Bris. (Meyer- 
beer : Gli Ugonotti, an opera.) 


Rava/na, according to Indian myth- 
ology, was fastened down between 
heaven and earth for 10,000 years by 
Siva’s leg, for attempting to move the 
hill of heaven to Ceylon. He is described 
as a demon giant with tenfaces, (Hindu 
mythology.) 


Ravelin (7.6) or demi-lune, in fortifi- 
cation. A work with two faces, form- 
ing a salient angle, placed beyond the 
main ditch, opposite the curtain (7.v.),and 
separated from the covered way (7.1.) by 
a ditch which ruus into the main ditch. 


Raven. A bird of ill omen. They 
are said to forebode death and bring in- 
fection. The former notion arises from 
their following an army under the expec- 
tation of finding dead bodies to raven 
on; the latter notion is a mere offshoot 
of the former, seeing pestilence kills as 
fast as the sword. 

“The boding raven on her cottage sat, 

And with hoarse croakings warned us of our 

fate.” Gay: Pastorals ; The Dirge. 
“ Like the sad-presaging raven that tolls 

The sick man’s passport in her hollow beak, 

And. in the shadow of the silent night, 

Does shake contagion from her sable wing.” 

Marlowe: Jew of Malta (1633). 

Raven. Jovianus Ponta’nus relates 
two skirmishes between ravens and kites 
near Beneventum, which prognosticated 
a great battle. Nice’tas speaks of a 
skirmish between crows and ravens as 
presaging the irruption of the Scythians 
into ‘Thrace. He also tells us that his 
friend Mr. Draper, in the flower of his 
age and robust health, knew he was at 
the point of death because two ravens 
flew into his chamber. Cicero was fore- 
warned of his death by the fluttering of 
ravens, and Macaulay relates the legend 
that a raven entered the chamber of the 
great orator the very day of his murder, 
and pulled the clothes off his bed. Like 
many other birds, ravens indicate by 
their cries the approach of foul weather, 
but ‘‘it is ful unleful to beleve that God 
sheweth His prevy counsayle to crowes, 
as Isidore sayth.”’ 

He has the foresight of a raven. A 
raven was accounted at one time a pro- 
phetic bird. (See above.) 

“Of inspired birds ravens are accounted the 
most prophetical. Accordingly, in the language 
of that district, ‘to have the foresight of araven’ 
is to this day a proverbial expression.”—Macau- 
lay: History of St, Kilda, yp. 174, 


66 


Ravens bode famine. When a flock of 
ravens forsake the woods we may look 
for famine and mortality, because 
‘‘ravens bear the characters of Saturn, 
the author of these calamities, and have 
a very early perception of the bad dis- 
position of that planet.’’ (See Athenian 
Oracle, Supplement, p. 476.) 

“As if the great god Jupiter had nothing else 
to doe but to dryve about jacke-dawes and 
ravens.’ —Carneades. 

Ravens were once as white as swans, 
and not inferior in size; but one day a 
raven told Apollo that Coro’nis, a 
Thessalian nymph whom he passionately 
loved, was faithless. The god shot the 
nymph with his dart; but, hating the 
tell-tale bird— 

“ He blacked the raven o’er, 
And bid him prate in his white plumes no more.” 
Addison: Translation of Ovid, bk. ii. 

Ravens in Christian art. Emblems of 
God’s Providence, in allusion to the 
ravens which fed Elijah. St. Oswald 
holds in his hand a raven with a ring in 
its mouth; St. Benedict has a raven at 
his feet; St. Paul the Hermit is drawn 
with a raven bringing him a loaf of 
bread, ete. 

The fatal raven, consecrated to Odin, 
the Danish war-god, was the emblem on 
the Danish standard. This raven was 
said to be possessed of necromantic 
power. The standard was termed Lan- 
deyda (the desolation of the country), 
and miraculous powers were attributed 
to it. The fatal raven was the device of 
Odin, god of war, and was said to have 
been woven and embroidered in one 
noontide by the daughters of Regner 
Lodbrok, son of Sigurd, that dauntless 
walrior who chanted his death-song 
(the Avakamal) while being stung to 
death in a horrible pit filled with deadly 
serpents. If the Danish arms were 
destined to defeat, the raven hung his 
wings; if victory was to attend them, he 
stood erect and soaring, as if inviting the 
warriors to follow. 

“The Danish raven, lured by annual prey, 

Hung o’er the land incessant.” i 

Thomson: Liberty, pt. iv. 

The two ravens that sit on the shoulders 
of Odin are called Hugin and Munnin 
(Mind and Memory). 

One raven will not pluck anothers eyes 
out (German, ‘‘ Keine krahe hackt der 
anderen Gé augen aus*’). Friends will 
not ‘‘ peach’’ friends; you are not to 
take for granted all that a friend says of 
a friend. 


Ravenglass (Cumberland), A cor- 
ruption of Afon-glass (Blue river). 


Ravenstone 


1042 


Reader 


Ra'venstone. The stone gibbet of 
Germany ; so called from the ravens 
which are wont to perch on it. (German 
rabenstein.) 

Ὁ Do you think 
Τ] honour you so much as save your throat 
From the Rayenstone, by choking you myself ?” 
Byron: Werner, ii. 2. 

Ra'venswood (Allan, Lord of). A 
decayed Scotch nobleman of the Royalist 
party. 

Master Edgar Ravenswood. His son, 
who falls in love with Lucy Ashton, 
daughter of Sir William Ashton, Lord- 
Keeper of Scotland. The lovers plight 
their troth at the Mermaid’s Fountain, 
but Lucy is compelled to marry Frank 
Hayston, laird of Bucklaw. ‘The bride, 
in a fit of insanity, attempts to murder 
the bridegroom and dies in convulsions. 
Bucklaw recovers, and goes abroad. 
Colonel Ashton, seeing Edgar at the 
funeral of Lucy, appoints a hostile meet- 
ing ; and Edgar, on his way to the place 
appointed, is lost in the quicksands of 
Kelpies-flow. (Sir Walter Scott - Bride 
of Lammermoor.) 

In Donizetti's opera of Lucia di Lan- 
mermoor, Bucklaw dies of the wound 
inflicted by the bride, and Edgar, heart- 
broken, comes on the stage and kills 
himself, that ‘‘ his marriage with Lucy, 
forbidden on earth, may be consummated 
in heaven.”’ 


Raw. To touch one on the raw. To 
mention something that makes a person 
wince, like touching a horse on a raw 
place in cleaning him. Y 


Raw Lobster (A). A policeman. 
Lobsters before they are boiled are a 
dark blue. A soldier dressed in scarlet 
is a lobster; a policeman, or sort of 
soldier, dressed in dark blue is a raw 
lobster. The name was given to the 
n2w force by the Weekly Dispatch news- 
paper, which tried to write it down. 


Rawhead and Bloody-Bones. A 
bogie at one time the terror of children. 
_ “ Servants awe children. and keep them in sub- 
jection by telling them of Rawhead and Bloody- 
bones.’ —Locke. 

Ray’mond (in Jerusalem Delivered). 
Master of 4.000 infantry, Count of Tou- 
louse, equal to Godfrey in the ‘‘ wisdom 
of cool debate ’’ (bk. iii.). This Nestor 
of the Crusaders slew Aladine, the king 
of Jerusalem, and planted the Christian 
standard upon the tower of David (bk. 
ΧΟ» 


Rayne or Raine (Essex). (Go and say 
your prayers at Raine. The old church 


of Raine, built in the time of Henry 11., 
famous for its altar to the Virgin, and 
much frequented at one time by preg- 
nant women, who went to implore the 
Virgin to give them safe deliverance. 


Razed Shees, referred to in Humlet, 
are slashed shoes, 

“Would not this, sir... with two Provencal 
roses on my razed shoes, get mea fellowship in a 
ery of players, sir ?”—Act Ili. 2. 

Razee (raz-za). A ship of war cut 
down to a smaller size, asa seventy-four 
reduced to a frigate. (French, 7aser.) 


Razor. THewing blocks with a razor. 
Livy relates how Tarquinius Priscus, 
defying the power of Attus Navius, the 
augur, said to him, ‘‘ Tell me, if you are 
so wise, whether I can do what Iam now 
thinking about.”? ‘‘ Yes,’’ said Navins. 
‘‘Ha! ha!” cried the king; “1 was 
thinking whether I could cut in twain 
that whetstone with a razor.’”’ ‘ Cut 
boldly! ’’ answered the augur, and the 
king cleft it in twain at one blow. 


Raz'zia. An incursion made by the 
military into an enemy’s country, for the 
purpose of carrying off cattle or slaves, 
or for enforcing tribute. It is an Arabic 
word much employed in connection with 
Algerine affairs. 

“Waris arazzia rather thanan art to the... 
merciless Pelissier.”—Vhe Standard, 

Re (Latin). Respecting; in refer- 
ence to; as, “76 Brown,’’ in reference 
to the case of Brown. 


Reach of a river. The part which 
lies between two points or bends; so 
called because it s¢aches from point to 
point. 

“ When he drew near them he would turn from 
each, 

And loudly whistle till he passed the Reach.” 

Crabbe: Borough. 

Read between the Lines. (‘ce 

under LINES.) 


Reade or Read (Siiov), alluded to 
by Ben Jonson in the dlehemist, ines 
was Simon Read, of St. George’s, 
Southwark, professor of physic. Rymer, 
in his Fuedéra, vol. xvi., says, ‘‘ he was 
indicted for invoking evil spirits in order 
to find out the name of a person who, 
in 1608, stole £37 10s. from Tobias 
Mathews, of St. Mary Steynings, London. 


Reader. In the University of Oxford, 
one who reads lectures on scientific 
subjects. In the Inns of Court, one who 
reads lectures in law. In printing, one 
who reads and corrects the proof-sheets 
of any work before publication ; a cor- 
rector of the press, 


Ready 


1043 


Rebus 


Ready (The). An elliptical expres- 
sion for ready-money. Goldsmith says, 
“ Hs in presenti perfectum format” 
(‘‘ Ready-money makes aman perfect’’). 
(Lton Latin Grammar.) 

“Lord Strut was not very flush in the ‘ready.’ ” 
—Dr, Arbuthnot. a 

Ready -to-Halt. A pilgrim that 
journeyed to the Celestial city on 
crutches. He joined the party under 
the charge of Mr. Greatheart, but 
‘* when he was sent for”’ he threw away 
his crutches, and, lo! a chariot bore 
him into Paradise. (Bunyan: Pilgrin’s 

*rogress, part 11.) 

Real Jam. Prime stuff, a real treat, 
something delightful. Of course, the 
allusion is to jam given to children for a 
treat. 

“There must have heen a charming climate in 
Parad‘se, and [the] connubial bliss [there]... 
was real jam.”—Sai Slick: Human Nature. 

Real Presence. The doctrine that 
Christ Himself is really and substantially 
present in the bread and wine of the 
Eucharist after consecration. 


Rear-mouse or Rere-mouse. The 
bat. (Anglo-Saxon /iere-mus, the flut- 
tering-mouse ; verb, iere-an, to flutter.) 
Of course, the ‘‘ bat’’ is not a winged 
mouse. 


Reason. The Goddess of Reason, 
November 10th, 1793. Mlle. Candeille, 
of the Opéra, was one of the earliest of 
these goddesses, but Mme. Momoro, wite 
of the printer, the Goddess of Liberty, 
was the most celebrated. On November 
10th a festival was held in Notre Dame 
de Paris in honour of Reason and 
Liberty, when women represented these 
“ ooddesses.’? Mlle. Candeille wore a 
red Phrygian cap, a white frock, a blue 
mantle, and tricolour ribbons. Her 
head was filleted with oak-leaves, and 
in her hand she carried the pike of 
Jupiter-Peuple. In the cathedral a sort 
of temple was erected on a mound, and 
in this ‘‘ Temple of Philosophy ”’ Mlle. 
Candeille was installed. Young girls 
crowned with oak-leaves were her at- 
tendants, and sang hymusin her honour. 
Similar installations were repeated at 
Lyons and other places. (See LIBERTY, 
Goddess of.) 

Mile. Maillard, the actress, is mentioned by 
Lamartine as one of these goddesses, but played 
the part much against her will. 

Mille. Aubray was another Goddess of Reason. 

Rebece’ca. Daughter of Isaac the 
Jew, in love with Ivanhoe. Rebecca, 
with her father and Ivanhoe, being taken 
prisoners, are confined in Front de Boeut’s 


castle. Rebecca is taken to the turret 
chamber and left with the old sibyl there; 
but when Brian de Bois Guilbert comes 
and offers her insult she spurns him with 
heroic disdain, and, rushing to the verge 
of the battlements, threatens to throw 
herself overif he touches her. Ivanhoe, 
who was suffering from wounds received 
in a tournament, is nursed by Rebecca. 
Being again taken prisoner, the Grand 
Master commands the Jewish maiden to 
be tried for sorcery, and she demands a 
trial by combat. The demandis granted, 
when Brian de Bois Guilbert is appointed 
as the champion against her; and Ivan- 
hoe undertakes her defence, slays Brian, 
and Rebecca is set free. ‘To the general 
disappointment of novel-readers, after all 
this excitement Ivanhoe tamely marries 
the lady Rowen’a, a ‘‘ vapid piece of still 
1116. Rebecca pays the newly-married 
pair a wedding visit, and then goes abroad 
with her father to get out of the way. 
(Sir Walter Scott : Ivanhoe.) 

Rebec’caites (4syl.). Certain Welsh 
rioters in 1843, whose object was to de- 
molish turnpike gates. The name was 
taken from Rebekah, the bride of Isaac. 
When she left her father’s house, Laban 
and his family ‘‘ blessed her,’”’ and said, 
‘* Let thy seed possess the gate of those 
that hate them ’’ (Gen. xxiv. 60). 


Rebellion (Zic). The revolts in 
behalf of the House of Stuart in 1715 
and 1745; the former in behalf of the 
Chevalier de St. George, son of James 
II., called the Old Pretender, and the 
latter in favour of Charles Edward, 
usually termed the Young Pretender. 

The Great Rebellion. The revolt of 
the Long Parliament against Charles I. 
(1642-1646.) 

The Great Irish Rebellion, 1789. It 
was caused by the creation of numerous 
Irish societies hostile to England, es- 
pecially that called ‘‘ The United Irish- 
men.’’ There have been eight or nine 
other rebellions. In 1365 the Irish 
applied to France for soldiers ; in 1597 
they offered the crown of Ireland to 
Spain ; in 1796 they concluded a treaty 
with the French Directory. 

Rebus (Latin, with things). A hiero- 
glyphic riddle, ‘‘ non verbis sed rebus.”” 
The origin of the word and custom is 
this: The basochiens of Paris, during the 
carnival, used to satirise the current 
follies of the day in squibs called De 
yebus que geruntur (on the current 
events). That these squibs might not 
be accounted libellous, they employed 
hieroglyphics either wholly or in part. 


Reception 


1044 


Red Boots 


Reception (70 get a), in theatrical 
language means to be welcomed with 
applause from the front, when you make 
your first appearance for the night. 
This signifies that the audience recog- 
nises your established reputation. 


Re’chabites (3 syl.). A religious 
sect founded by Jonadab, son of Rechab, 
who enjoined his family to abstain 
from wine and to dwellin tents. (Jer. 
5.6.0.0) ὁ; τ. 

Receipt is a direction for compound- 
ing or mixing together certain ingre- 
dients to make something required. It 
also means a written discharge to a 
debtor for the payment of a debt. 


Recipe (3 syl.), Receipt. Recipe is 
Latin for ¢a/e, and contracted into R is 
used in doctor’s prescriptions. The dash 
through the R is an abbreviated form 
of 2/,the symbol of Jupiter, and R means 
Recipe, deo volente. 


Reck his own Rede (70). Give 
heed to his own counsel. (Old English, 
Reclan], to heed ; Red, counsel, advice.) 


Reckon (1). A peculiar phraseology 
common in the Southern States of 
America. Those in New England say, 
“1 guess.’’? (See CALCULATE, ) 


Reckoning without your Host. 
To guess what your expenses at an hotel 
will be before the bill has been delivered ; 
to enter upon an enterprise without 
knowing the cost. 

“We thought that now our troubles were over ; 
... but we reckoned without our host.’—Mace- 
millan’s Magazine, 1887. 

Reclaim (2 syl.). To turn from evil 
ways. This is a term in falconry, and 
means to call back the hawk to the wrist. 
This was done when it was unruly, that 
it might be smoothed and tamed. (Latin, 
ve-clamo.) 


Death recorded means 
- death is recorded 
or written by the recorder against the 
verbally pronounced 
by the judge. This is done when capital 
punishment is likely to be remitted. It 
15. the verbal sentence of the judge that 
is the only sufficient warrant of an exe- 
cution, The sovereign is now not con- 
sulted about any capital punishment. 


Rec’reant is one who cries out 
(French, +écrier); alluding to the judicial 
combats, when the person who wished to 
give in cried for mercy, and was held a 
coward and infamous. (See CRAVEN.) 


Rector. (See CLERICAL TITLES.) 


Recorded. 
hat t 


t he sentence of 


eriminal, but not 


Reculer peur Mieux Sauter. To 
run back in order to give a better jump 
forwards; to give way a little in order 
to take up a stronger position. 


“Where the empire sets its foot, it cannot 
withdraw without much loss of credit, whereas 
reculer pour mieux sauter must often be the most 
effective action in that tide of European civilisa- 
tion, which is slowly, but surely, advancing into 
the heart of the Dark Continent.”—Nineteenth 
Century, December, 1892, p. 990, 

Recul'ver. The antiquities of this 
place are fully described in Antiguitates 
Rutupine, by Dr. Battley (1711). It 
was a Roman fort in the time of 
Claudius. 


Red. The colour of magic. 


“Red is the colour of magic in every country, 
and has been so from the very earliest times. 
The caps of fairies and musicians are well-nigh 
always red.”— Yeates: Fairy and Folk Tules of the 
Trish Peasantry, p. 61. 

Red applied to gold. 
watch is a ‘‘ red kettle.”’ 
* Thou shew’st an honest nature ; weep'st for thy 

master ; 

There’s a red rogue to buy the handkerchief.” 

Beaumont and Fletcher: Mad Lover, v. 4. 

Red Basque Cap. The cognisance 
of Don Carlos, pretender to the Spanish 
throne. 


Red Book. The book which gave 
account of the court expenditure in 
France before the Revolution was so 
called because its covers were red. We 
have also ἃ ‘‘ Red Book” in manuscript, 
containing the names of all those who 
held lands per baro'niam in the reign of 
Henry II., with other matters pertain- 
ing to the nation before the Conquest. 
(Ryley, 667.) 


Red Book of the Exchequer (776). 
Liber Rubens Scaccarii in the Record 
Office. It was compiled in the reign of 
Henry III. (1246), and contains the 
returns of the tenants in capite in 1166, 
who certify how many knights’ fees 
they hold, and the names of those who 
hold or held them, also much other 
matter from the Pipe Rolls aud other 
sources, It has not yet (1895) been 
printed, but is described in Sims’ J/aizwal 
(p. 41), Thomas’s fandbook (p. 255), 
and in the Ltecord Report of 1837 (pp. 
166-177). A separate account of it was 
printed by Hunter in 1837. It contains 
the only known fragment of the Pipe 
Roll of Henry II., and copies of the 
important Inquisition returned into the 
exchequer in 13 John. It is xot written 


Hence a gold 


in ved ink. (Communicated by A. 
Oldham.) 
Red. Boots. 4 pair of ved boots. 


A Tartar phrase, referring to a custom 


Red-breasts 


1045 


Red Herring 


of cutting the skin of a victim round the 
upper part of the ankles, and then 
stripping it off at the feet. A Tartar 
will say, ‘‘ When you come my way 
again, I will give you a pair of red boots 
to go home in.”’ 


Red-breasts. Bow Street runners, 
who wore a scarlet waistcoat. 


“The Bow Street runners ceased out of the 
land soon after the introduction of the new police. 
1 remember them very well as standing about the 
door of the office in Bow Street. They had no 
other uniform than a blue dress-coat, brass 
buttons... anda bright red cloth waistcoat. .. 
The slang name for them was ‘ Red-breasts.’ ’— 
Dickens: Letters, vol. 11. p. 178. 

Red Button (4). A mandarin of 
the first class, whose badge of honour is 
a red button in his cap. 


“An interview was granted to the admiral 
[Elliot] by Kishen, the imper ial commissioner, the 
third manin the empire, a mandarin of first class 
and red button.’—Howitt: History of England, 
1841, p. 471. 

Red Cap (Mother). An olduurse ‘at 
the Hungerford Stairs.”” Dame Ursley 
or Ursula, another nurse, says of her 
rival— 

“She may do very well for skipper’s wives, 
chandlers’ daughters, and such like, but nobody 
shall wait on pretty Mistress Mar garet . eX- 
cepting and saving myself.’’—Sir “Walter ‘Scott : 
Fortunes of Nigel. 

Red Coats in fox-hunting (or scarlet) 
is a badge of royal livery, fox-hunting 
being ordained by Henry II. a royal 
sport. 


Red Cock. The red cock will crow in 
his house. His house will be set on fire. 

“we'll see if the red cock craw not in his 
bonnie barn-yard ae ‘morning.’ ‘What does she 
mean?’ said Mannering. ... ‘Fire-raising,’ an- 
swered the... dominie.’—Sir Walter Scott : Guy 
Munnering, chap. iii. 

Red Com’yn. Sir John Comyn of 
Badenoch, son of Marjory, sister of King 
John Balliol; so called from his ruddy 
complexion and red hair, to distinguish 
him from his kinsman ‘‘ Black Comyn,”’ 
whose complexion was swarthy and hair 
black. He was stabbed by Sir Robert 
Bruce in the church of the Minorites at 
Dumfries, and afterwards dispatched by 
Lindesay and Kirkpatrick. 


Red Cross (7116). The badge of the 
royal banner of England till those of 
St. Patrick and St. Andrew were added. 

“The fall of Rouen (1419) was the fall of the 
whole province .. . and the red cross of England 
waved on all the towers of Normandy.”—Howitt : 
History of England, vol. i. p. 545. 

Red Cross Knight, in Spenser’s 
Faérie Queene, is the impersonation of 
holiness, or rather the spirit of Chris- 
tianity. _ Politically he typifies the 
Church of England. The knight is sent 
forth by the queen to slay a dragon 


which ravaged the kingdom of Una’s 
father. Having achieved this feat, he 
marries Una (q.v.). (Book i.) 

Red Feathers (716). The Duke of 
Cornwall’s Light Infantry. They cut to 
pieces Gener ‘al Wayne’s brigade in the 
American War, and the Americans 
vowed to give them no quarter. So 
they mounted red feathers that no others 
might be subjected to this threat. They 
still wear red puggarees on Indian ser- 
vice. (See LACEDAMONIANS.) 


Red Flag (4). (i) Inthe Roman em- 
pire it signified war and a call to arms. 

(ii) Hoisted by British seamen, it indi- 
cates that no concession will be made. 

As a railway signal, it intimates danger, and 
warns the engine-driver to stop. 

-(iii) In France, since 1791, it has been 
the symbol of insurrection and terrorism. 

(iv) It is a synonym of Radicalism 
and Anarchy. 

“Mr. Chamberlain sticks to the red fiz 
parently believes in its ultimate succes 
paper paragraph, January, 1886, 

Red Hand of Ulster. In anancient 
expedition to Ireland, it was given out 
that whoever first touched the shore 
should possess the territory which he 
touched; O’Neill, seeing another boat 
likely to outstrip his own, cut off his left 
hand and threw it on the coast. From 
this O’Neill the princes of Ulster were 
descended, and the motto of the O’Neills 
is to this day ‘‘ Lamh dearg Eirin’’ (ved 
hand of Erin). (See Hann.) 


Red-handed. In the very act; with 
red blood still on his hand. 

“T had some trouble to save him from the fury 
of those who had caught him red-handed,’”"—The 
Times (a correspondent). 


Red Hat (Zhe). The cardinalate. 


“David Beatoun was born of good family .... 
and was raised toared hat by Pope Paul III.’— 
Prince: Parallel History, vol. li. p. 81. 


Red Heads. (ce SCHIITES.) 


Red Herring (Ze) of a novel is a 
hint or statement in the early part of 
the story to put the reader on the wrong 
scent. In all detective stories a red 
herring is trailed across the scent. The 
allusion is to trailing a red herring on 
the ground to destroy the scent and set 
the dogs at fault. A ‘‘red herring’? is 
a herring dried and smoked, 


Red Herring. Drawing ared herring 
across the path. Trying to divert atten- 
tion from the main question by some 
side-issue. A red herring drawn across 
a fox’s path destroys the scent and sets 
the dogs at fault, 


r,and ap- 
. —News- 


Red Indians 


1046 


Red Snow 


Neither fish, flesh, nor good ved herring. 
Something insipid and not good eating. 
Neither one thing nor another, 


Red Indians (of Newfoundland). 
So called because they daub their skin, 
garments, canoes, weapons, and almost 
everything with red ochre. 

“Whether it is merely a custom, or whether 
they daub their skin with red ochre to protect it 
from the attacks of mosquitos and black-flies, 
which swarm by myriads in the woods and wilds 
during the summer, it is not possible to βὰν." - 
Lady Blake: Nineteenth Century, Dec. 1888, p. 905. 

Red Kettle (4). Properly a gold 
watch, but applied, in thieves’ slang, to 
any watch. 

Gold is often called red, hence ‘‘ red 
ruddocks ”’ (gold coin). 


Red-laced Jacket. Giving a mana 
red-laced jacket. Military slang for giv- 
ing a soldier a flogging. 


Red Land (1712). The jurisdiction 
over which the Vehmgericht of West- 
phalia extended. 


Red-lattice Phrases. Pot-house 
talk. Red-lattice at the doors and win- 
dows was formerly the sign that an ale- 
house was duly licensed; hence our 
chequers. In some cases ‘‘lattice’’ has 
been converted into J/eftwce, and the 
colour of the alternate checks changed to 
green: such a sign used to be in Brown- 
low Street, Holborn. Sometimes, with- 
out doubt, the sign had another meaning, 
and announced that ‘tables’? were 
played within; hence Gayton, in his 
Notes on Don Quixote (p. 340), m 
speaking of our public-house signs, re- 
fers to our notices of ‘‘ billiards, kettle- 
noddy-boards, tables, truncks, shovel- 
boards, fox-and-geese, and the like.” 
It is quite certain that shops with the 
sign of the chequers were not uncommon 
among the Romans, (826 a view of the 
left-hand street of Pompeii, presented by 
Sir William Hamilton to the Society of 
Antiquaries.) (See LATTICE.) 

“T,I,I myself sometimes, leaving the fear of 
heaven on the left hand, . . . am fain to shuffle, to 
hedge and to lurch ; and yet you, rogue, will en- 
sconce your rags... your red-lattice phrases... 
under the shelter of your honour.’’—Shakespeare:: 
Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 2. 

Red Laws (Zhe). The civil code of 
ancient Rome. Juvenal says, ‘‘ Per lege 
rubras majoram leges”’ (Satires, xiv. 193). 
The civil laws, being written in vermil- 
lion, were called rwbrica, and rubrica 
vetavit means, It is forbidden by the 
civil laws. 


The pretor’s laws were inscr ibed in white letters 
as Quintilian informs us (xii. 3 “ preetores edicta 
sua in albo proponebant”), and imperial rescripts 
were written in purple, 


Red-letter Day. A lucky day; 
day to be recalled with delight. In 
almanacks, saints’ days and holiday sare 
printed in red ink, other days in black. 

“That day,... 
letter day to me.”—Wanters : 
pedition, chap. vi. p. 111. 

Red Man. The French say that a 
red man commands the elements, and 
wrecks off the coast of Brittany those 
whom he dooms to death. The legend 
affirms that he appeared to Napoleon 
and foretold his downfall. 


Red Men. W. Hepworth Dixon tells 
us that the Mormons regard the Red 
Indians as a branch of the Hebrew race, 
who lost their priesthood, and with it 
their colour, intelligence, and physiog- 
nomy, through disobedience. In time the 
wild-olive branch will be restored, be- 
come white in colour, and will act asa 
nation of priests. (ew America, i. 15.) 


Red Rag (Zic). The tongue. In 
French, Le chiffon rouge; and balancer 
le chiffon rouge means to prate. 

“ Discovering in his mouth a tongue, 
He must not his palaver balk ; 
So keeps it running all day long, 
And fancies his red rag can talk.” 
Deter Pindar: Lord B. and his Motions. 

Red Republicans. Those extreme 
republicans of France who scruple not 
to dye their hands in blood in order to 
accomplish their political object. They 
used to wear a red cap. (See CARMAG- 
NOLE.) 


Red Rose Knight (Zhe). Tom 
Thumb or Tom-a-lin. Richard John- 
son, in 1597, published a ‘‘ history of 
this ever-renowned soldier, the Red Rose 
Knight, surnamed the Boast of Eng- 
land. . 


Red Rot (Zhe). The Sun-dew (¢.7.); 
so called because it occasions the rot in 
sheep. 


Red Sea. The sea of the Red Man— 
i.e. Edom. Also called the ‘‘sedgy sea,” 
because of the sea-weed which collects 
there. 


Red-shanks. A Highlander ; so 
called from a buskin formerly worn by 
them ; it was made of undressed deer’s 
hide, with the red hair outside. 


Red Snow and Gory Dew. The 
latter is a slimy damp-like blood which 
appears on walls. Both are due to the 
presence of the alge called by botanists 
Palmella eruenta and Heematococeus san- 
guineus, which are of the lowest forms 
of vegetable life, 


writes the doctor, was truly a red- 
Stanley's Emin Max- 


Red Tape 


1047 


Redgauntlet 


Red Tape. Official formality; so 
called because lawyers and government 
officials tie their papers together with 
red tape. Charles Dickens introduced 
the phrase. 


“There is a good deal of red tape at Scotland 
Yard, as anyone may find to his cost who has any 
business to transact there.”—W. Yerrell: Lady 
Delmar, dk. iil, 2. 


Red Tape. Dressing Edward VI. 


“ First a shirt was taken up by the Chief Equerry- 
in-Waiting, : 
who passed it to the First Lord of the Buck- 
hounds, 
who passed it to the Second Gentleman of 
the Bedchamber, 
who passed it to the Head Ranger of 
Windsor Forest, 
who teseed it to the Third Groom of the 
Stole, 
who passed it to the Chancellor Royal of 
the Duchy of Lancashire, 
who passed it to the Master of the Wardrobe, 
who passed it to Norroy King-cf-Arms, 
who passed it to the Constable of the Tower, 
who passed it to the Clief Steward of the 
Household, 
who passed it to the Hereditary Grand 
Diaperer, 
who passed it to the Lord High Admiral of 
England, 
oe passed it to the Archbishop of Canter- 
yury, 
who passed it to the First Lord of the 
Bedchamber, 
who put it on the young king.” 
Mark Twain: The Prince aud the Pauper, p. 143. 


Red Tapism. The following is from 
Truth, Feb. 10th, 1887, p. 207 :—There 
was an escape of gas at Cambridge 
Barracks, and this is the way of pro- 
ceeding : The escape was discovered by a 
private, who reported it to his corporal ; 
the corporal reported it to the colour- 
sergeant, and the colour-sergeant to the 
quartermaster-sergeant. The quarter- 
master-sergeant had to report it to the 
quartermaster, and the quartermaster to 
the colonel commanding the regiment. 
The colonel had to report it to the com- 
missariat officer in charge of the bar- 
racks, and the commissariat officer to the 
barrack-sergeant, who had to report it 
to the divisional officer of engineers. 
This officer had to report it to the 
district officer of engineers, and he to 
the clerk of works, Royal Engineers, 
who sends for a gasman to see if there is 
an escape, and report back again. While 
the reporting is going on the barracks 
are burnt down. 


Red Tincture. That preparation 
which the alchemists thought would 
convert any baser metal into gold. It 
is sometimes called the Philosopher’s 
Stone, the Great Elixir, and the Great 
Magisterium. (See WHITE TINCTURE.) 


Redan’. The simplest of fieldworks, 
and very quickly constructed. It con- 
sists simply of two faces and an angle 


formed thus A, the angle being towards 
the object of attack. A corruption of 
redens, (Latin.) 


Redder (Zie). The adviser, the 
person who redes or interferes, Thus 
the proverb, ‘“‘ The redder gets aye the 
warst lick of the fray.”’ 

“ Those that in quarrels interpose 
Must wipe themselves a bloody nose.” 

Redding-straik (4). A blow re- 
ceived by a peacemaker, who interferes 
between two combatants to sed or 
separate them ; proverbially, the severest 
blow a man can receive. 

“Said I not to ye,‘ Make not, meddle not ;’ he- 
ware of the redding-straik ?”—Sir W. Scott: Guy 
Mununering, chap, Xxvii. 

Redgaunt let. The sobriquet of 
Fitz-Aldin, given him from the great 
slaughter which he made of the South- 
ron, and his reluctance to admit them to 
quarter. ‘The sobriquet was adopted by 
him as a surname, and transmitted to 
his posterity. A novel by Sir W. Scott. 
(Sce chap. viii.) 

Redgauntilet. A novel told ina 
series of letters by Sir Walter Scott. Sir 
Edward Hugh Redgauntlet, a Jacobite 
conspirator in favour of the Young Pre- 
tender, Charles Edward, is the hero. 
When George III. was crowned he per- 
suaded his niece, Lilias Redgauntlet, to 
pick up the glove thrown down by the 
king’s champion. The plot ripened, but 
when the prince positively refused to 
dismiss his mistress, Miss Walkinshaw— 
a sine quad non with the conspirators— 
the whole enterprise was given up. 
General Campbell arrived with the mili- 
tary, the prince left Scotland, Red- 
gauntlet, who embarked with him, 
became a prior abroad, and Lilias, his 
niece, married her brother’s friend, 
Allan Fairford, a young advocate. 

Redgaunt let (Sir Aberick). An an- 
cestor of the family so called. 

Sir Edward. Son of Sir Aberick, 
killed by his father’s horse. 

Sir Robert. An old Tory in Wandering 
Willies Tale. He has a _ favourite 
monkey called ‘‘ Major Weir.” Sir John, 
son and successor of Sir Robert. Sir 
Redwald, son of Sir John. 

Sir Henry Darsie. Son of Sir Red- 
wald. Lady Henry Darsie, wife of Sir 
Henry Darsie. Sir Arthur Darsie alias 
Darsie Latimer, son of Sir Henry and 
the above lady. Miss Lilias alias Green- 
mantle, sister of Sir Arthur; she marries 
Allan Fairford. 

Sir Edward Hugh. A political enthu- 
siast and Jacobite conspirator, uncle of 


Redlaw 


1048 


Reekie 


Sir Arthur Darsie. He appears as 
“Ὁ Laird of the Lochs,’ ‘‘ Mr. Herries, of 
Birrenswork,’’ and ‘‘ Mr, Ingoldsby.”’ 
‘* When he frowned, the puckers of his 
brow formed a horseshoe, the special 
mark of his race.”’ (Sir Valter Scott : 
Redgauntlet.) 

Redlaw (J/7.). The haunted man, 
professor of chemistry in an ancient 
college. Being haunted, he bargained 
with his spectre to leave him, and the 
condition imposed was that Redlaw (go 
where he would) should give again ὁ“ the 
gift of forgetfulness’? bestowed by the 
spectre. From this moment the chemist 
carried in his touch the infection of 
sullenness, selfishness, discontent, and 
ingratitude. On Christmas Day the 
intection ceased, and all those who had 
suffered by it were restored to love and 
gratitude. (Dickens: The Haunted Man.) 


Redmain. Magnus, Earl of North- 
umberland, was so called not from his 
red or bloody hand, but on account of 
his long red beard or mane. He was 
slain in the battle of Sark (1449). 

“We was remarkable for his long red heard,and 
wis therefore called by the English Maznus Red- 
beard; but the Scotch in derision called him 
ene with the Red Mane.’”’—Godscroft, fol. 

io. 

Redmond O’Neale. Rokeby’spage, 
who is beloved by Rokeby’s daughter 
Matilda. Redmond turns out to be 
Mortham’s son and heir, and marries 
Matilda. (Sir Walter Scott ~ Rokeby.) 


Reductio ad Absurdum. A proof 
of inference arising from the demonstra- 
tion that every other hypothesis involves 
an absurdity. Thus, suppose I want to 
prove that the direct road from two given 
places is the shortest, I should say, “Τὸ 
must either be the shortest or not the 
shortest. If xo¢ the shortest, then some 
other road is the direct road ; but there 
cannot be two shortest roads, therefore 
the direct road must be the shortest.”’ 


Reduplicated or Ricochet Words, 
of intensifying force. Chit-chat, click- 
clack, clitter-clatter, dilly-dally, ding- 
dong, drip-drop, fal-lal, flim-flam, fiddle- 
faddle, flip-flop, fliffy-fluffy, flippity- 
floppity, handy-pandy, harum-scarum, 
helter-skelter, heyve-keyve (alliwell), 
hibbledy-hobbledy, higgledy-piggledy, 
hob-nob, hodge-podge, hoity - toity, 
hurly-burly, mish-mash, mixy-maxy 
(Brockett), namby-pamby, niddy-noddy, 
niminy-piminy, nosy-posy, pell-mell, 
pit-pat, pitter-patter, randem-tandem, 
randy-dandy, ribble-rabble,  riff-raff, 
roly-poly, rusty-fusty-crusty, see-saw, 


shilly-shally, slip-slop, slish-slosh, snick- 
snack, spitter-spatter, splitter-splutter, 
squish-squash, teeny-tiny, tick-tack, 
tilly-valley, tiny-totty, tip-top, tittle- 
tattle, toe-toes, wee-wee, wiggle-wagele, 
widdy-waddy (Halliwell), widdle- 
waddle, wibble-wobble, wish-wash, 
wishy-washy ; besides a host of rhyming 
synonyms, as bawling-squawling, mew- 
ling-pewling, whisky-frisky, musty- 
fusty, gawky-pawky, — slippy-sloppy, 
rosy-posy, right and tight, wear and 
tear, high and mighty, ete. ; and many 
more with the Anglo-Saxon letter- 
rhyme, as safe and sound, jog-trot, ete. 


Ree. Right. Thus teamers say toa 
leading horse, “‘ Ree!” when they want 
it to turn to the right, and ‘‘ Hey!” for 
the contrary direction, (Saxon, re/t ; 
German, recht ; Latin, rectus ; various 
English dialects, veet, whence rcetle, ‘ to 
put to rights.’’) 

“ Who with a hey and ree the beasts command.” 
Micro-Cynicon (1599). 

Riddle ime, riddle me vee. Expound 
my riddle rightly. : 

Reed. 4 broken reed. Something 
not to be trusted for support, Egypt is 
called a broken reed, to which Hezekiah 
could not trust if the Assyrians made 
war on Jerusalem, ‘‘ which broken reed 
if a man leans on, it will go into his 
hand and pierce it.”” Reed walking 
sticks are referred to. 

A bruised reed, in Bible language, 
means a believer weak in grace. 


bruised reed [God] will not break. 


Reed Shaken by the Wind (4A), 
in bible language, means a person blown 
about by every wind of doctrine. John 
the Baptist (said Christ) was nota “‘reed 
shaken by the wind,”’ but from the very 
first had a firm belief in the Messiahship 
of the Son of Mary, and this conviction 
was not shaken by tear or favour, 


Reef. 16 must take in a reef or so. 
He must reduce his expenses; he must 
retrench. <A reef is that part of a sail 
which is between two rows of eyelet- 
holes. The object of these eyelet-holes 
is to reduce the sail reef by reef as it is 
required. 


Reekie (4zuid). Chambers says: 
“An old patriarchal laird (Durham of 
Largo) was in the habit of regulating 
the time of evening worship by the ap- 
pearance of the smoke of Edinburgh. 
. .. When it increased in density, in 
consequence of the good folk preparing 
supper, he would .. . say, ‘It is time 
noo, bairns, to tak the buiks and gang 


Reel 


1049 


Regius Professor 


to our beds, for yonder’s auld Reekie, I 
see, putting on her night-cap.’”’ 

“Yonder is auld Reekie. You may see the 
smoke hover over her at twenty miles’ distance.” 
—Sir W. Scott: The Abbot, xvil. 

Reel. Light off the veel. Without 
intermission. A reel is a device for 
winding rope. A reel of cotton is a 
certain quantity wound on a bobbin. 
(Anglo-Saxon 7v9/.) 


Reel. <A Scotch 
righil.) 

“We've been travelling best part of twenty-four 
hours right off the reel.”’—Boldrewood: Liobbery 
under Arms, chap. XX Xi. 

Reeves Tale. Thomas Wright says 
that this tale occurs frequently in the 
jest- and story-books of the sixteenth and 
seventeenth centuries. Boccaccio has 
given it in the Decameron, evidently 
from a fabliau, which has been printed 
in Barbazan under the title of De Gom- 
bert et des Deux Clers. Chaucer took 
the story from another fabliau, which 
Wright has given in his Anecdota Liter- 
aria, Ὁ. 1d. 

Refresh’er. A fee paid toa barrister 
daily in addition to his retaining fee, to 
remind him of the case intrusted to his 
charge. 


dance. (Gaelic, 


Refreshments of public men, etc. 

Brawam’s fayourite refreshment was 
bottled porter. 

Byron almost lived on uncanny foods, 
such as garlic pottage, raw artichokes 
and vinegar, broths of bitter herbs, 
saffron biscuits, eggs and lemons. 

CaTALAN?’s favourite refreshment was 
sweetbreads. 

CoNTRALTO SINGERS can indulge even 
in pork and pease-pudding. 

Cook (G@. F.) indulged in everything 
drinkable. 

Disraeti (Lord Beaconsfield), cham- 
pagne. 

Emery, cold brandy and water. 

GLADSTONE, an ege beaten up in 
sherry. 

HENDERSON, gum arabic and sherry. 

InctEepon (J/s.), Madeira. 

JORDAN (J7s.), Calves’ -foot jelly dis- 
solved in warm sherry. 

Kean (Zdmund), beef-tea for break- 
fast ; brandy neat. 

KemsiE (both John and Charles), 
rump-steaks and kidneys. John indulged 
in opium, 

Lewis, oysters and mulled wine. 

Matipran, a dozen native oysters and 
a pint of half-and-half. 

Stppons (J7s.), mutton- chops, either 
neck or chump, and porter, 


Suir (JVilliam), coffee. 

Sopranos eschew much _ butcher’s 
meat, which baritones may indulge in. 

Tenors rarely indulge in beef-steaks 
and sirloins. 

Woop (JM/s.), draught porter. 


Rega'le (2 syl.). Τὸ entertain like a 
king. (Latin, rega'lis, like a king, 
kingly.) 

Re’gan and Gon’eril. Two of the 
daughters of King Lear, and types of 
unfilial daughters. (Shakespeare : King 
Lear.) 

Regatta (Jtalian). Originally ap- 
plied to the contests of the gondoliers 
at Venice. 

Regent (16). (See Surps.) 


Regent’s Park (London). This park 
was originally attached to a palace of 
Queen Elizabeth, but at the beginning 
of the seventeenth century much of the 
land was let on long leases, which fell in 
early in the nineteenth century, The 
present park was formed under the 
direction of Mr. Nash, and received 
its name in compliment to George IV., 
then Prince Regent. 

Regime de la Calotte. Adminis- 
tration of government by ecclesiastics. 
The calotte is the small skull-cap worn 
over the tonsure. 


Regiment de la Calotte. A society 
of witty and satirical men in the reign of 
Louis XIV. When any public character 
made himself ridiculous, a. calotte was 
sent to him to ‘‘ cover the bald or brain- 
less part of his noddle.”’ (See above.) 


Regi'na (S/.), the virgin martyr, is 
depicted with lighted torches held to her 
sides, as she stands fast bound to the 
cross on which she suifered martyrdom. 


Regiomonta’nus. The Latin equiva- 
lent of Aénigsherger. The name adopted 
by Johann Miiller, the mathematician. 
(1436-1476. 

Re'gium Do‘num (Latin). An an- 
nual grant of public money to the Pres- 
byterian, Independent, and Baptist 
ministers of Ireland, It began in 1672, 
and was commuted in 1869. 


Re’gius Professor. One who holds 
in an English university a professorship 
founded by Henry VIII. Each of the 
five Regius Professors of Cambridge re- 
ceives a royally-endowed stipend of 
about £40. In the universities of Scot- 
land they are appointed by the Crown. 
The present stipend is about £400 or 
£500. 


Regulars 


Reg’ulars (7/ic). All the British 
troops except the militia, the yeomanry, 
and the volunteers. ‘There are no ir- 
regulars in the British army, but such a 
force exists among the black troops. 


Rehobo’am (4). A clerical hat. 


“He (Mr. Helstone] was short of stature [and 
Wore) a rehoboam, or shovel hat, which he did 
not... remove.’—* Currer Bell” : Shirley, chap. i. 

Rehoboam,. 4 rehoboam of claret or 
runis a double jeroboam. (2 Chr. xiii, 3.) 

1 rehoboam = 2 jeroboams or 32 pints. 

1 jeroboam = 2 tappet-hens or 16 pints. 

1 tappet-hen = 2 magnunis or 8 pints, 

1 magnum = 2 quarts or 4 pints. 

Reign of Terror. The period in the 
French Revolution between the fall of 
the Girondists and overthrow of Robes- 
pierre. It lasted 420 days, from May 
150, 1793, to July 27th, 1794. 


Reimkennar (4). A sorceress, a 
pythoness; one skilled in numbers. 
Sorcery and Chaldean numbers are sy- 
nonymous terms. The Anglo-Saxon ?i- 
stafas means charms or conjuration, and 
the Norse reim-kennar means one skilled 
in numbers or charms. Norna of the 
Fitful Head was a Reimkennar, ‘‘a con- 
troller of the elements.” 


Reins. 170 give the reins. 
unrestrained ; to give licence, 

To take the veins. To assume the 
guidance or direction. 


Reins (Ze). The kidneys, supposed 
by the Hebrews and others to be the seat 
ot knowledge, pleasure, and pain. The 
Psalmist says (xvi. 7), ‘‘ My reins instruct 
me in the night season,” 1,6. my kidneys, 
the seat of knowledge, instruct me how 
to trust in God. Solomon says (Prov. 
xxiii, 16), ‘‘ My reins shall rejoice when 
{men] speak right things,”’ 1.6. truth ex- 
cites joy from my kidneys ; and Jeremiah 
says (Lam. iii. 13), God ‘‘caused His 
arrows to enter into my reins,’’ 1.6. sent 
pain into my kidneys. (Latin, ren, a 
kidney.) 


Rel'dresal. Principal secretary for 
private affairs in the court of Lilliput, 
and great friend of Gulliver. When it 
was proposed to put the Man-Mountain 
to death for high treason, Reldresal 
moved as an amendment, that the 
“traitor should have both his eyes put 
out, and be suffered to live that he might 
serve the nation,”? (Swift: Gulliver's 
Travels ; Voyage to Lilliput.) 

Relics. A writer in the Twentieth 


Century (1892, article RoME) says: 
‘Some of the most astounding relics are 


To let go 


1050 


Remember 


officially shown in Rome, and publicly 
adored by the highest dignitaries of the 
Christian Church, with all the magnifi- 
cence of ecclesiastical pomp and ritual.’’ 
The following are mentioned :—- 


A BOTTLE OF THE VIRGIN’S MILK. 

_ THE CRADLE AND SWADDLING CLOTHES of the 
infant Jesus. 

THE CROSS OF THE PENITENT THIEF, 

THE CROWN OF THORNS. 

THE FINGER OF THOMAS, With which he touched 
the wound in the side of Jesus. 

HAIR OF THE VIRGIN MARY. 

THE HANDKERCHIEF OF ST. VERONICA, on 
which the face of Jesus was miraculously 
pictured. 

HAY OF THE MANGER in which the infant Jesus 
was laid. 

HEADS OF PETER, PAUL, AND MATTHEW. 

THE INSCRIPTION set Over the cross by the 
order of Pilate. 

NAILs used at the crucifixion. 

PLECE OF THE CHEMISE of the Virgin Mary. 

THE SILVER MONEY given to Judas by the 
Jewish priests, which he flung into the Temple, 
and was expended in buying the potters’ field as a 
cemetery for strangers. 

THE TABLE on which the soldiers cast lots for 
the coat of Jesus, 


** Brady mentions many others, some 
of which are actually impossibilities, as, 
for example, a rib of the Verbum caro 


factum, a vial of the sweat of St. Michael 


when he contended with Satan, some of 
the rays of the star which guided the 
wise men. (See Claris Calendaria, 
p. 240.) 

Relief (7%c). In fortification, the 
general height to which the defensive 
masses of earth are raised. The direc- 
tions in which the masses are laid out 
are called the tracings. 


Rem Acu. You have hit the mark; 
you have hit the nail on the head. Lem 
acu tetigistt (Plautus). A phrase in 
archery, meaning, You have hit the 
white, or the bull’s-eye. 

“¢ Rem acu once again,’ said Sir Piercie.’—The 
Monastery, chap. Xvi. 

Remember. The last injunction of 
Charles I., on the scaffold, to Bishop 
Juxon. A probable solution of this 
mysterious word is given in Notes and 
Queries (February 24th, 1894, p. 144). 
The substance is this: Charles, who was 
really at heart a Catholic, felt persuaded 
that his misfortunes were a divine visita- 
tion on him for retaining the church 
property confiscated by Henry VIII., 
and made a vow that if God would re- 
store him to the throne, he would restore 
this property to the Church. This vow 
may be seen in the British Museum. 
His injunction to the bishop was to re- 
member this vow, and enjoin his son 
Charles to carry it out. Charles IL., 
however, wanted all the money he could 
get, and therefore the church lands were 
never restored. 


Remigius 


1051 


Reply Churlish 


Remig‘ius (S/.). 
confessor, is represented as carrying a 
vessel of holy oil, or in the act of anoint- 
ing therewith Clovis, who kneels before 
him. When Clovis presented himself for 
baptism, Rémy said to him, ‘‘ Sigam- 
brian, henceforward burn what thou 
hast worshipped, and worship what thou 
hast burned.”’ (438-533.) 


Remis atque Velis (Latin). With 
oars and sails. Toothand nail ; with all 
despatch. 

“We were going remis atque velis into the in- 
terests of the Pretender, since a Scot had pre- 
sented a Jacobite at court.”’—Sir W. Scott: Red- 
gauntlet (conclusion). 

Renaissance (French). A term ap- 
plied in the arts to that peculiar style of 
decoration revived by Raphael, and 
which resulted from ancient paintings 
exhumed in the pontificate of Leo X. 
(16th century). The French Renaissance 
is a Gothic skeleton with classic details. 


Renaissance Period (7ic). That 
period in French history which began 
with the Italian wars in the reign of 
Charles VIII. and closed with the reign 
of HenrilI. It was theintercourse with 
Italy, brought about by the Italian war 
(1494-1557), which ‘‘ regenerated ’’ the 
arts and sciences in France ; but as every- 
thing was Italianised—the language, 
dress, architecture, poetry, prose, food, 
manners, etc.—it was a period of great 
false taste and national deformity. 


Renard. Une queue de venard. A 
mockery. At one time a common prac- 
tical joke was to fasten a fox’s tail be- 
hind a person against whom a laugh was 
designed. ‘‘ Panurge never refrained 
from attaching a fox’s tail or the ears 
of a leveret, behind a Master of Arts or 
Doctor of Divinity, whenever he encoun- 
tered them.’’—Rabelais: Gargantua, 11. 
16. (See REYNARD.) 

“ C’est une petite vipére 
ui n’epargneroit pas son pére, 
t qui par nature ou par art 
Scait couper la queué au renard.” 
Beaucaire: L'Embarras de la Foire. 

Renarder (French). To vomit, es- 
pecially after too freely indulging in 
intoxicating drinks. Our word fox 
means also to be tipsy. 


“Tl Τὰν visite la machoire, 
Quand l’autre luy renarde aux yeux. 
Le baume qu’ils venoient de boire_ 
Pour se le rendre a qui mieux mieux.” 
Sieur de St. Amant : Chambre de Desbauche. 
Rena'ta. Renée, daughter of Louis 
XII. and Anne of Bretagne, married 
Hercules, second son of Lucretia Borgia 
and Alphonso. 


Rémy, bishop and | 


Renaud. French form of Rinaldo 
(χ.ν.). 

Renault of Montauban. In the 
last chapter of the romance of Aymon’s 
Four Sons, Renault, asan act of penance, 
carries the hods of mortar for the build- 
ing of St. Peter’s, at Cologne. 

“Since I cannot improve our architecture, ... 
Tam resolved to do like Renault of Montauban, 
and I will wait on the masons, ... As it Was not 
in my good luck to be cut out for one of them, I 
will live and die the admirer of their divine 
writings.” — Rabelais: Prologue to Book V. of 
Pantagr uel. 

Rendezvous. The place to which 
you are to repair, a meeting, a place of 
muster or call. Also used as a verb. 
(French, rendez, betake ; vows, yourself.) 
2 His house is a grand rendezvous of the elite of 

Paris. 

_ The Imperial Guard was ordered to rendezvous 
in the Champs de Mars. 

René (2 syl.). Le bon Roi René. Son 
of Louis 11., Duc d’Anjou, Comte de 
Provence, father of Margaret of Anjou. 
The last minstrel monarch, just, joyous, 
and debonair ; a friend to chase and tilt, 
but still more so to poetry and music. 
He gave in largesses to knights-errant 
and minstrels (so says Thiebault) more 
than he received in revenne. (1408-1480.) 

“Studying to promote, as far as possible, the 
immediate mirth and good humour of his subjects 
... he was never mentioned hy them excepting 
as Le bon Roi René,a distinction ... due to him 
certainly by the qualities of his heart, if not by 
those of his head.”—Sir Walter Scott: Anne of 
Geiersiein, Chap. XXix. 

René Leblanc. Notary-public of 
Grand Pré (Nova Scotia), the father of 
twenty children and 159 grandchildren. 
(Longfellow : Evangeline.) 


Rep’artee’ properly means a smart 
return blow in fencing. (French, 7¢- 
partir, to return a blow.) 


Repenter Curls. The long ringlets 
of a lady’s hair. Zepentir is the French 
for a penitentiary, and les repentirs are 
the girls sent there for reformation. 
Repentir, therefore, is a Lock Hospital 
or Magdalen. Now, Mary Magdalen is 
represented to have had such long hair 
that she wiped off her tears therewith 
from the feet of Jesus. Hence, Mag- 
dalen curls would mean the long hair of 
a Mary Magdalen made into ringlets. 


Reply Churlish (7.6). Sir, you are 
no judge; your opinion has no weight 
with me. Or, to use Touchstone’s illus- 
tration: ‘If a courtier tell memy beard is 
not well cut, and I disable his judgment, 
I give him the reply churlish, which is 
the fifth remove from the lie direct, or, 
rather, the lie direct in the fifth degree.”’ 


Reproof Valiant 


1052 


Revulsion 


Reproof Valiant (Ze). Sir, allow 
me to tell you that is not the truth. To 
use ‘Touchstone’s illustration: “If a 
courtier tells me my beard is not well 
cut, and I answer, ‘ That is not true,’ I 
give him the reply valiant, which is the 
fourth remove from the lie direct, or 


rather, the le direct in the fourth 
degree.”’ 

The reproof valiant, the countercheck quarrel- 
some, the lie circumstantial, and the lie direct, 


are not clearly defined by Touchstone. The fol- 
lowing, perhaps, will give the distinction re- 
quired: That is not true; How dare you utter 
such a falseuood ; Jf you said so, you area liar ; 
You area liar, or you lie, 

Republican Queen. Sophie Char- 
lotte, wife of Frederick I. of Prussia. 

Republicans. (Sce BLACK.) 


Resolute (1716). John Florio, the 
philologist, tutor to Prince Henry; the 
Holofernes of Shakespeare. (1545-1625.) 


The vesolute doctor. John Bacon- 
thorp (*-1346). 
The most vesolute doctor. Guillaume 


Durandus de St. Pourcgain (*-1332). 


Rest (Zhe). A contraction of resid’ ue 
—thus, resid’, resit, res’t. 


Rest on One’s Oars. (See Oars.) 


Res’tive (2 syl.) means inclined to 
resist, resist-ive, obstinate or self-willed. 
It has nothing to do with vest (quiet). 


Restora'tionists. The followers of 
Origen’s opinion that all persons, after a 
purgation proportioned to their demerits, 
will be restored to Divine favour and 
taken to Paradise. Mr. Ballow, of 
America, has introduced an extension of 
the term, and maintains that all retribu- 
tion is limited to this life, and at the 
resurrection all will be restored to life, 
joy, and immortality. 


Resurrection Men. Grave robbers. 
First applied to Burke and Hare, in 1829, 
who rifled graves to sell the bodies for 
dissection, and sometimes even murdered 
people for the same purpose. 


Resurrection Pie is made of broken 
cooked meat. Meat séchauffé is some- 
times called ‘‘ resurrection meat.’’ 


Retia’rius. A gladiator who made 
use of a net, which he threw over his 
adversary. 

“As in thronged amphitheatre of old, 
The wary Retiarius trapped his foe.” 
Thomson: Castle of Indolence, canto il. 

Retort Courteous (712). Sir, 1am 
not of your opinion; I beg to differ 
from you; or, to use Touchstone’s illus- 
tration, ‘‘ If I said his beard was not cut 
well, he was in the mind it was,’?’ The 


lie seven times removed; or rather, the 
lie direct in the seventh degree. 


Reuben Dixon. A village school- 
master ‘‘ of ragged lads.’’ 


“ Mid noise, and dirt,and stench, and play, and 
prate, 
He calinly cuts the pen or views the slate.” 
Crabbe: Borough, letter xxiv. 

Reveillé [1e-vay'-ya]. The beat of 
drum at daybreak to warn the sentries 
that they may forbear from challenging,. 
as the troops are awake. (French, 7é- 
veiller, to awake.) 

Revenons ἃ nos Moutons. 
Movurtons.) 


Reverend. An archbishop is the 
Most Reverend [Father in God]; a 
bishop, the Right Reverend ; a dean, 
the Very Reverend ; an archdeacon, the 
Venerable; all the rest of the clergy, 
the Reverend. 


Revetments, in fortifications. In 
“‘permanent fortification ’’ the sides of 
ditches supported by walls of masonry 
are so called. (See COUNTERFORTS.) 


Review. The British Review was 
nicknamed ‘‘My Grandmother,.’”’ In 
Don Juan, Lord Byron says, he bribed 
“My Grandmother's leview, the British.” 
The editor took this in dudgeon and 
gave Byron the lie, but the poet turned 
the laugh against the reviewer. 

Ain 1 flat, 1 tip ‘My Grandmother’ a bit of 
prose.”’—Noctes Ambrosiane. 

Revi'se (2 syl.). The second proof- 
sheet submitted to an author or 
‘* reader. ”’ 

“T at Jength reached a vaulted room,... and 
beheld, seated by a lamp and employed inreading 
a blotted revise ... the author of Waverley.’”— 
Sir Walter Scott: Fortunes of Nigel (Introduction), 

Revival of Letters in England 
dates from the commencement of the 
eleventh century. 


Revival of Painting and Sculp- 
ture began with Niccola Pisano, Giunta, 
Cimabue, and Giotto (2 syl.). 

Revo'ke (2 syl.). When a player at 
cards can follow suit, but plays some 
other card, he makes a revoke, and by 
the laws of whist the adversaries are en- 
titled to score three points. 

τ Good heaven ! Revoke ? Remember, if the set 

Be lost, in honour you should pay the debt.” 

Crabbe: Borough. 

Revulsion (in philosophy). Part ofa 
substance set off and formed into a dis- 
tinct existence; as when a slip is cut 
from a tree and planted to form a dis- 
tinct plant of itself. Tertullian the 
Montanist taught that the second person 


(See 


Rewe 


1053 


Rhone 


of the Trinity was a revulsion of the 
Father. (Latin, revilsio, re-vello, to pull 
back.) 


Rewe. A roll or slip; as Ragman’s 
Rewe. (See RAGMAN.) 

“There is a whole world of curious history con- 
tained in the phrase ‘ragman's rewe,’ meaning a 
list, roll, catalogue,. . . charter, scroll of any 
kind. In Piers Plowman’s Vision itis used for the 
pope’s bull.’—Edinburgh Review, July, 1870. 

“Tn Fescenium was first invented the joylitee 
of mynstrelsie and syngyng merrie songs for 
makyng laughter, hence called ‘Fescennia Car- 


mina,’ which I translate a‘ Ragman’s Rewe’ or 
Bible.”—Udull. 

Reyn’ard the Fox. The hero in 
the beast-epic of the fourteenth century. 
This prose poem is a satire on the state 
of Germany in the Middle Ages. Rey- 
nard typifies the church; his unele, 
Isengrin the wolf, typifies the baronial 
element; and Nodel the lion, the regal. 
The word means deep counsel or wit. 
(Gothic, raginohart, cunning in counsel ; 
Old Norse, hreinn and ard; German, 
reineke.) Reynard is commonly used as 
a synonym of fox. (Heinrich von Alk- 
maar.) 

“Where prowling Reynard trod his nightly 
round.” Bloomfield: Furmer’s Boy. 

Reynard the Fox.  Professedly by 
Hinreck van Alckmer, tutor of the Duke 
of Lorraine. This name is generally 
supposed to be a pseudonym of Hermann 
Barkhusen, town clerk and book printer 
in Rostock. (1498.) 

False Reynard. So Dryden describes 
the Unitarians in his Hind and Panther. 


(See RENARD.) 
“With greater guile 
False Reynard fed on consecrated spoil ; 
The graceless beast by Athana/sius first 
Was chased from Nice, then by Socinus nursed.” 
Part i. 51-54. 

Reynar’dine (3 syl.). The eldest son 
of Reynard the Fox, who assumed the 
names of Dr. Pedanto and Crabron. 


(Reynard the Fox.) 


Reynoid of Montalbon. One of 
Charlemagne’s knights and paladins. 


Rezio. (See Docror REzI0.) 


Rhadaman'thos. One of the three 
judges of hell; Minos and Afacos being 
the other two. (Greek mythology.) 


Rhampsini/tos. The Greek form 
of Ram/’eses IJI., the richest of the 
Egyptian kings, who amassed seventy- 
seven millions sterling, which he secured 
in a treasury of stone, but by an artifice 
of the builder he was robbed every 
night. 


Herodotos (bk. ii. chap. 121) tells us that two 
brothers were the architects of the treasury, and 


that they placed in the wall a removable stone, 


through which they crept every night to purloin 


the store. The king, after a time, noticed the 
diminution, and set a trap to catch the thieves. 
One of the brothers was caught in the trap, but 
the other brother, to prevent detection, cut off 
his head and made good his escape. 


*. This tale is almost identical with that of 
Trophonios, told by Pausanias. Hyrieus (3 syl.) 
a Bootian king employed Trophonios and_ his 
brother to build him a treasury. Inso doing they 
also contrived to place in the wall a removable 
stone, through which they crept nightly to pur- 
loin the king’s stores. Hyrieus also set a trap to 
catch the thief, and one of the brothers was 
caught ; but Trophonios cut off his head to prevent 
detection, and made good his escape. There can- 
not bea doubt that the two talesareinveality one 
and the same. 

Rhapsody means songs strung to- 
gether. The term was originally applied 
to the books of the Zliad and Odyssey, 
which at one time were in fragments, 
Certain bards collected together a num- 
ber of the fragments, enough to make a 
connected ‘“ballad,’’ and sang them as 
our minstrels sang the deeds of famous 
heroes. Those bards who sang the Z/iad 
wore a 7d robe, and those who sang the 
Odyssey a blue one.  Pisis’‘tratos of 
Athens had all these fragments care- 
fully compiled into their present form 
(Greek vapto, to sew or string together ; 
odé, a song.) 

Rhene (1 syl.). 
Rhenus.) 

“To pass 


Rhene or the Danaw [Danube].” _ 
Milton: Paradise Lost, )k. 1. 353. 


Rhine or Rhineland. The country 
of Gunther, King of Burgundy, is so 
called in the Nibelungen- Lied. 


“ Not a lord of Rhineland could follow where he 


The Rhine. (Latin, 


flew.” Lettsom’s Nibelungen-Lied, st. 210. 
Rhi'no. Ready money. (See Nose.) 


May not this explain the phrase ‘‘ pay- 
ing through the nose”’ (par le nez), that 
is, paying ready rhino. Rhino = money 
is very old. 


“Some.as 1 know, 
Have parted with their ready rhino.” 
The Seaman's Adieu (1670). 

Rhod/alind. A princess famous for 
her “ knightly "ἢ deeds; she would have 
been the wife of Gon’dibert, but he 
wisely preferred Birtha, a country girl, 

the daughter of the sage As‘tragon. 


Rhodian Bully (Zc). 
of Rhodes. 
“ Yet fain wouldst thou the crouching world be- 
stride, : : 
st like the Rhodian bully o'er the tide, 
ἩαΒΌΤΝΕ ΠΗ te ἌΣ ΤΣ The Lusiad, canto 2. 


The colossus 


᾽ 


BRho'dian Law. The earliest system 
of marine law known to history ; com- 
piled by the Rhodians about 900 8.0. 


Rhone. Zhe Rhone of Christian elo- 
quence. St. Hilary ; so called from the 
vehemence of his style. (300-368.) 


Rhopalic Verse 


Rhopal/ic Verse (wedge-verse). A 
line in which each successive word has 
more syllables than the one preceding it 
(Greek, rhopalon, a club, which from the 
handle to the top grows bigger.) 


doctissime, dulcisonorum. 
Spes deus :wterne-est stationis  conciliator, 
Hope ever solaces miserable indiyiduals, 

1 2 3 4 5 


Rem tibi confeci, 


Rhyme. Neither rhyme nor reason. 
Fit neither for amusement nor instruc- 
tion. An author took his book to Sir 
Thomas More, chancellor in the reign of 
Henry VIII., and asked his opinion, 
Sir Thomas told the author to turn it 
into rhyme. He did so, and submitted 
it again to the lord chancellor. ‘Ay! 
ay!” said the witty satirist, ‘that will 
do, that will do. ’Tis rhyme now, but 
before it was neither rhyme nor reason.”’ 


Rhymer. Thomas the Rhymer. 
Thomas Learmount, of Ercildoune, who 
lived in the thirteenth century. This 
was quite a different person to Thomas 
Rymer, the historiographer royal to 
William IIT. (who flourished 1283). (See 
TRUE THOMAS.) 

Rhyming to Death. The Irish at 
one time believed that their children and 
cattle could be ‘‘ eybitten,’’ that is, be- 
witched by an evil eye, and that the 
“‘ eybitter,”” or witch could ‘‘rime”’ them 
to death. (R. Scott : Discovery of Witch- 
craft.) (See Rats.) 


Rib’aldry is the language of a ribald. 
(French, ribaud ; Old French, ribaudie ; 
Italian, ribalderia, the language of a 
vagabond or rogue. ) 


Ribbon Dodge (Zhe). Plying a 
person secretly with threatening letters 
in order to drive him out of the neigh- 
bourhood, or to compel him to do some- 
thing he objects to. The Irish Ribbon 
men sent threatening letters or letters 
containing coffins, cross-bones, or dag- 
gers, to obnoxious neighbours. 


Ribbonism. A Catholic association 
organised in Ireland about 1808. Its two 
main objects were (1) to secure ‘ fixity of 
tenure,” called the tenant-right ; and (2) 
to deter anyone from taking land from 
which a tenant has been ejected. The 
name arises from a ribbon worn as a 
badge in the button-hole. 


Ribston Pippin. ‘So called from 
Ribston, in Yorkshire, where Sir Henry 
Goodricke planted three pips, sent to 
him from Rouen, in Normandy. Two 
pips died, but from the third came all 
the Ribston apple-trees in England. 


1054 


Richard 


Ricardo, in the opera of J Puritani, 
is Sir Richard Forth, a Puritan, com- 
mander of Plymouth fortress. Lord 
Walton promised to give him his daugh- 
ter Elvi’'ra in marriage, but Elvira had 
engaged her affections to Lord Arthur 
Talbot, a Cavalier, to whom ultimately 
she was married. 


Ricciardet’to. 
brother of Bradamante. 
lando £uvi0so.) 


Rice Christians. Converts to Chris- 
tianity for worldly benefits, such as a 
supply of rice to Indians. Profession of 
Christianity born of lucre, not faith, 


Rice thrown after a Bride. Τί 
was an Indian custom, rice being, 
with the Hindtis, an emblem of fecun- 
dity. The bridegroom throws three 
handfuls over the bride, and the bride 
does the same over the bridegroom. 
With us the rice is thrown by neighbours 
and friends, (See MarriaGE KNor.) 


Rich as Croesus. (Sve CRESUS.) 


Rich as a Jew, This expression 
arose in the Middle Ages, when Jews 
were almost the only merchants, and 
were certainly the most weaithy of the 
people. There are still the Rothschilds 
among them, and others of great wealth. 


Richard Cceur de Lion. (Sve 
BoGtrE. ) 


“His tremendous name was employed by the 
Syrian mothers to silence their infants ; and if a 
horse suddenly started from the way, his rider was 
wont to exclaim, ‘ Dost thou think King Richard 
is in the bush ?’"—Gibbon: Decline and Fall, etc., 
Xi. 146. 

Richard 11.5 Horse. Roan Barbary. 
(See Horse.) 


* Oh, how it yearned my heart when I beheld 
In London streets, that coronation day, 
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary, 
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid, 
That horse that 1 so carefully have dresse:l.” 
Shakespeare: Richard IT., V.5. 
Richard III.’s Horse. White Surrey. 
(See Horse.) 
“Saddle White Surrey for the field to-morrow.” 
Shakespeare: Richard I1I., v.8. 
Richard Roe. (Sve Dor.) 


Richard is Himself again. These 
words are not in Shakespeare’s Richard 
ITI., but were interpolated from Colley 
Cibber by John Kemble. 


Richard of Cirencester. Some- 
times called ‘‘ Tne Monk of West- 
minster,” an early English chronicler. 
His chronicle On the Ancient State of 
Britain was first brought to light by 
Dr. Charles Julius Bertram, professor 
of English at Copenhagen in 1747; but 


Son of Agmon and 
(Ariosto : Or- 


Richarda 


δῦ Ridotto 


the original (like the original of Mac- 
pherson’s Ossian and of Joe Smith’s 


Book of Mormon) does not exist, and j 


grave suspicion prevails that all three 
are alike forgeries. (See SANCHONIATHO.) 


Richar’da, wife of Nicholas d’Este. 
A widow who, with her son Hercules, 
was dispossessed of her inheritance by 
Lionello and Borso. Both were obliged 
to go into exile, but finally Hercules 
recovered his lordship. 

Richborough, Richeboro’, or 
Ratesburgh (a Roman fort in the time 
of Claudius), called by Alfred of Bever- 
ley, Richberge; by the Saxons (accord- 
ing to Bede) Reptacester, and by others 
Ruptimuth ; by Orosius, the port and 
city of Rhutubus; by Ammianus, 
Rhutupiz Statio; by Antoninus, Rhit- 
upis Portus; by Tacitus, Portus Trutu- 
lensis for Rhutupensis; by Ptolemy, 
Rhutupie. (Camden.) 

Rick Moulé. This is an April fool 
joke transferred to hay-harvest. The 
joke is this: some greenhorn is sent a 
good long distance to borrow a rick- 
mould, with strict injunction not to 
drop it. The lender places something 
very heavy in a sack or bag, which he 
hoists on the greenhorn’s back. He 
carries it carefully in the hot sun to the 
hayfield, and gets well laughed at for 
his pains. 

Rickety Stock. Stock bought or 
sold for a man of straw. If the client 
cannot pay, the broker must. 


Ricochet [rikko-shay]. Anything 
repeated over and over again. The 
fabulous bird that had only one note 
was called the ricochet; and the re- 
bound on water termed ducks and 
dvakes has the same name. Marshal 
Vauban (1633-1707) invented a battery 
of rebound called the ricochet battery, 
the application of which was ricochet 
firing. 

Riddle. Josephus relates how Hiram, 
King of Tyre. and Solomon had once a 
contest in riddles, when Solomon won a 
large sum of money ; but he subsequently 
lost it to Abde’mon, one of Hiram’s 
subjects. 

kiddie. Plutarch states that Homer 
died of chagrin because he could not 
solve a certain riddle. (Sze SPHINX.) 

Father of riddles. So the Abbé Cotin 
dubbed himself, but posterity has not 


confirmed his right to the title. (1604- 
1682.) (See REE.) 
Riddle of Claret (4). Thirteen 


bottles, a magnum and twelve quarts. 


So called because in golf matches the 
magistrates invited to the celebration 
dinner presented to the club a ‘‘ riddle of 
claret,”’ sending it in a riddle or sieve. 


Ride. 170 ride abroad with St. George, 
but at home with St. Michael; said of a 
hen-pecked braggart. St. George is 
represented as riding on a war charger 
whither he listed; St. Michael, on a 
dragon. Abroad a man rides, like 
St. George, on a horse which he can 
control and govern; but at home he has 
‘a dragon’’ to manage, like St. Michael. 


(French.) 


Ride for a Fall (70). 
race and lose it intentionally. 

“There were not wanting people who said that 
government had ‘ridden for a fall, in their 
despair of carrying out their policy.”’—Newspaper 
paragraph, November, 1885. 

Ride up Holborn Hill (70). 
to the gallows. 

“T shall live to see you ride up Holborn Hill."— 
Congreve: Love for Love. 

Rider. An addition to a manuscript, 
like a codicil to a will; an additional 
clause tacked to a bill in parliament ; so 
called because it over-rides the preceding 
matter when the two come into collision. 

“ Perhaps Mr. Kenneth will allow me to add the 
following as a rider to his suggestion.”—Notes 
and Queries, ἡ MN.” 

Riderhood (foguc). The villain in 
Dickens’s Our Mutual Friend. 


Ridicule (futher of). 
Rabelais (1495-1553). 


Riding [of Yorkshire]. Same as trith- 
ing in Lincolnshire; the jurisdiction of 
a third part of a county, under the 
government of a reeve (sheriff). The 
word ding or thing is Scandinavian, and 
means a legislative assembly ; hence the 
great national diet of Norway is still 
called a stor-thing (great legislative 
assembly), and its two chambers are the 
lag-thing (law assembly) and the odels- 
thing (freeholders’ assembly). Kent was 
divided into /aths, Sussex into rapes, 
Lincoln into parts. The person who 
presided over a trithing was called the 
trithing-man ; he who presided in the 
lath was called a lath-grieve. 

Ridolphus (in Jerusalem Delivered). 
One of the band of adventurers that 
joined the Crusaders. He was slain by 
Argantes (bk. vii.). 

Ridot’to (Italian). An assembly 
where the company is first entertained 
to music, and then joinsindancing. The 
word originally meant music reduced to 
afullscore, (Latin, reductus.) 


To ride a 


To go 


Francois 


Rienzi 


1056 


Right as a Trivet 


Rien’zi (Nicolo Gabri‘ni). The Re- 
former at Rome (1313-1354). Bulwer 
Lytton (Lord Lytton) has a novel called 
Ttienzi, and Wagner an opera. 


Rif or Rifle (French). Avoir riffe ct 
rajie. ‘To have everything. Also, the 
negative, N’avoir ni rif ni raf (to have 
nothing), 

“ Hélas ! j'ai goute miseraigne, 

J’ai rifle et rafle, et roigne et taigne.” 
Les Miracles de Ste. Genevieve. 

Riff-raff. The offscouring of society, 
or rather, ‘‘ refuse and sweepings.”’ Lief 
is Anglo-Saxon, and means a rag; Raff 
is also Anglo-Saxon, and means sweep- 
ings. (Danish, 77ps-raps.) The French 
have the expression ‘‘ A voir rifle et rafle,” 
meaning to have everything; whence 
rvadoux (one who has everything), and 
the phrase “Ἢ 11 1’ a laisse ni vif ni raf” 
(he has left nothing behind him). 

“T have neither ryff nor ruff frag to cover me 
nor roof oyer my head).”—Sharp : Coventry Myst., 
Dp. 224. 

“Tika man agayne his gud he gaffe 

That he had tane with ryfe and raffe.” 

Quoted by Hulliwell in his Archaie Dictionary. 


Rifle is from the German reifeln (to 
hollow into tubes). In 1851 the French 

ential Ε 7 
minié rifle was partially supplied to the 
British army. In 1853 it was superseded 
by the E£nfield rifle, which has three 
grooves. Sir William Armstrong’s gun, 
which has numerous small sharp grooves, 
was adopted by the government in 1859, 
The Whitworth gun has a _ polygonal 
bore, with a twist towards the muzzle. 
(‘‘ Rifle’? is Norwegian for a groove or 
flute. ) ὃ 

Ὁ Rifles are either “ breech-loaders "ἢ or “ maga- 
zine rifles” Breechb-loading rifles Joad at the 
breech instead of at the muzzle ; magazine rifles 
are those which contain a chamber with extra 
cartridges, ; 

The chief breech-loading rifles are the Ballard, 
the Berdan, the Chaffee, the Cha ot (a French 
needle-gun, 1870-1871), the Flohbert-Gras (an im- 
proved Chassepot, 1874-188), the Greene, the Hall, 
the Minie-Henry (Great Britain, 1890), the Maxim, 
the Magnard, the Minie, the Morgensten, the 
Peabody, the Peabody-Martini (Turkey), the 
Scott, the Sharp, the Springfield (United States. 
1893), the Werder (Bavaria, the Werndi, the 
Whittemore, the Westley-Richards, and the Win- 
chester. 

“ἢ The magazine or repeating-rifles are also very 
numerous. The best known to the general pub- 
lic are Colt’s revolver and the Winchester repeat- 
ing-rifle of 1892. They are of three classes: (1) 
those in which the magazine is in the stock; (2) 
those in which the inagazine is a tube parallel 
with the barrel (as in Colts revolver): and (3) 
those in which the magazine is either a fixed or 
detachable box near the lock. The once famous 
Enfield rifle was loaded at the muzzle. In Spen- 
cer’srifle the magazine was in the stock. 


Rift in the Lute (4). A small de- 
fect which mars the general result. 


“ Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all. 
It is the little rift within the lute 
That by-and-by will make the music mute, 
And, ever widening, slowly silence all.” 
Tennyson: Merlin and Vivien; Vivien’s Song, 
verses 1, 2. 


” 


foot first. 


Rig. A piece of fun, a practical joke. 
The Scotch say of a man who indulges in 
intoxication, ‘‘ He goes the 7ig.’’ The 
same word is applied in Scotland to a 
certain portion or division of a field. 
A wanton used to be called a rig. 
(French, se sgoler, to make merry.) 

“ He little thought when he set out 


Of running sucha rig.” 
Cowper: John Gilpin. 
tig. To dress; whence vigged out, to 
rig oneself, to rig a ship, well-rigged, ete. 
(Anglo-Saxon, wrigan, to dress; hieg/, 
a garment.) 
“Jack was rigged out in his gold and silver 
lace, with a feather in his cap.”—L’ Estrange. 
Rig-Marie. Base coin. The word 
originated from one of the billon coins 
struck in the reign of Queen Mary, which 
bore the words Ltey. Maria as part of 
the legend. 
ΝΠ Billon is mixed metal for coinage, expecially 
silver largely alloyed with copper. 
Rigadoon. A French figure-dance 
invented by Isaac Rig’adon. 


* And Tsaac’s Rigadoon shall live as long 
As Raphael's painting, or as Virgil's song.” 
Jenyns: Art of Dancing, canto ii, 

Rig’dum Fun/‘nidos, in Carey’s bur- 
lesque of Chrononhotonthologos. 

Rigdun Froidos. A sobriquet given 
by Sir Walter Scott to John Ballantyne, 
his publisher. So called because he was 
full of fun. (1776-1821.) 


“A quick, active, intrepid little fellow,. . . full 
of fun and merriment, ... allover quaintness and 
humorous mimicry, ...a keen and skilfu deyo- 


tee of all manner of field-sports, from fox-hunting 
to badger-baiting inclusive. ’—Lockhurt. 

Right Foot. Put the shoeon theright 
The twelfth symbol of the 
Protveptics of Jamblichus. This audi- 
tion is preserved in our word ‘awk- 
ward,’? which means ‘“ left-handed” 
(awke, the left hand), seen also in the 
French gauche. Pythagoras meant to 
teach that his disciples should walk dis- 
creetly and wisely, not basely and feebly 


or gauchely. 


Right Foot Foremost. In Rome 
a boy was stationed at the door of 
a mansion to caution visitors not to cross 
the threshold with their left foot, which 
would have been an ill omen. 


Right Hand. The right-hand side 
of the Speaker, meaning the Ministerial 
benches. In the French Legislative 
Assembly the right meant the Monarchy 
men. In the National Convention the 
Girondists were called the right hand, 
because they occupied the Ministerial 
benches. 


Right as a Trivet, The trivetisa 


Right of Way 


metallic plate-stand with three legs. 
Some fasten to the fender and are de- 
signed to hold the plate of hot toast, 
ete. (Anglo-Saxon, thiryfot, three-foot, 
tripod, ) 


Right of Way (1716). The legal 
right to make use of a certain passage 
whether high-road, by-road, or private 
road. Watercourses, ferries, rivers, 
ete., are included in the word ‘‘ ways.”’ 
Private right of way may be claimed 
by immemorial usage, special permission, 
or necessity; but a funeral cortége or 
bridal party having passed over a certain 
field does not give to the public the right 
of way, as many suppose, 


Rights. Declaration of Rights. An 
instrument submitted to William and 
Mary, on their being called to the throne, 
setting forth the fundamental principles 
of the constitution. The chief items are 
these: The Crown cannot levy taxes, nor 
keep a standing army in times of peace; 
the Members of Parliament are free to 
utter their thoughts, and a Parliament 
is to be convened every year; elections 
are to be free, trial by jury is to be in- 
violate, and the right of petition is not 
to be interfered with. 


Riglet. A thin piece of wood used 
for stretching the canvas of pictures; 
and in printing to regulate the margin, 
etc. (French, rveglet, a rule or regulator ; 
Latin, regula, a rule.) 


Rig’ol. A circle or diadem. (Italian, 
vigolo, a little wheel.) 
“TSleep] That from this golden rigol hath divorced 

So many English kings.” 
Shakespeare: 2 Henry IV., iv. 4. 

Rigolette (3 syl.). <A grisette, a 
courtesan ; so called from Rigolette, in 
Eugétne Sue’s Mysteries of Paris. 

Rigoletto. An opera describing the 
agony of a father obliged to witness the 
prostitution of his own child. The li- 
bretto is borrowed from the drama called 
Le Roi 8᾽ Amuse, by Victor Hugo; the 
music is by Guiseppe Verdi. 


Rigwoodie. Unyielding; stubborn. 
A rigwiddie is the chain which crosses 
the back of a’horse to hold up the shafts 
of a cart (rig = back, withy = twig.) 

“ Withered heldams, auld and droll, 


Rigwoodie hags. 
Burns: Tam O'Shanter. 
Rile. Don't rile the water. Do not 
stir up the water and make it muddy. 
The water is riled—muddy and unfit to 
drink. Common Norfolk expressions ; 
also, a boy is ri/ed (out of temper). I’sy, 
together, Joe Smith was regularly riled, is 


67 


1057 


| 


Ring 


quite Norfolk. The American 7oi/ has 
the same meaning. A corruption of 
ἘΣ (French, browiller; our 
broil.) Theadjective ri/y, turbid, angry, 
is more common. 

Rimer. Chief god of Damascus; so 
called from the word vimé, a ‘‘ pome- 
granate,’’ because he held a pomegranate 
in his right hand. The people bore a 
pomegranate in their coat armour. The 
Romans called this god Jupiter Cassius, 
from Mount Cassius, near Damascus, 


Rimfaxi [fvost-manc]. The horse 
of Night, the foam of whose bit causes 
dew. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Rimmon. A Syrian god, whose seat 
was Damascus. 


“ Him followed Rimmon, whose delightful seat 
Was fair Damascus, on the fertile bank 
Of Ab/bana and Pharphar, lucid streams.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, )k. i. 467. 


Rimthur’sar. Brother of Y'mer., 
They were called the ‘‘ Evil Ones.” 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Rinaldo (in Jerusalem Delivered). The 
Achilles of the Christian army. ‘‘ He 
despises gold and power, but craves re- 
nown”’ (bk, 1.). He was the son of 
Bertoldo and Sophia, and nephew of 
Guelpho, but was brought up by Matilda. 
At the age of fifteen he ran away and 
jomed the Crusaders, where he was en- 
rolled in the adventurers’ squadron, 
Having slain Gernando, he was sum- 
moned by Godfrey to public trial, 
but went into voluntary exile. The 
pedigree of Rinaldo, of the noble house 
of Este, is traced from Actius on the 
male side and Augustus on the female to 
Actius VI. (bk. xvii.). 

Rinaldo (in Orlando Furioso). Son of 
the fourth Marquis d’Este, cousin of Or- 
lando, Lord of Mount Auban or Albano, 
eldest son of Amon or Aymon, nephew 
of Charlemagne, and  Bradamant’s 
brother. (See ALBA’NO,) He was the rival 
of his cousin Orlando, but Angelica de- 
tested him. He was called ‘‘ Clarmont’s 
leader,’’? and brought an auxiliary force 
of English and Scotch to Charlemagne, 
which ‘‘ Silence ’? conducted into Paris. 

Rinaldo or Renaud, one of the paladins 
of Charlemagne, is always painted with 
the characteristics of a borderer—valiant, 
ingenious, rapacious, and unscrupulous. 


Ring. Ifa lady or gentleman is wil- 
ling to marry, but not engaged, a ring 
should be worn on the index finger of 
the left hand; if engaged, on the second 
finger ; if married, on the third finger ; 
but if either has no desire to marry, on 
the little finger. (Jdme, C. de la Tour.) 


Ring 


1058 


Ring Posies 


A ring worn on the forefinger indicates 
a haughty, bold, and overbearing spirit ; 
on the long finger, prudence, dignity, 
and discretion; on the marriage finger, 
love and affection ; on the little finger, a 
masterful spirit. 

Ring given in marriage, because it was 
anciently used as a seal, by which orders 
were signed (Gen. xxxvili. 18 ; Esther ii. 
10-12) ; and the delivery of a ring was a 
sign that the giver endowed the person 
who received it with all the power he 
himself possessed (Gen, xli. 42). The 
woman who had the ring could issue 
commands as her husband, and was in 
every respect his representative. 


“Tn the Roman espousals, the man gave the 
woman a ring by way of pledge,and the won.an 
put it on the third finger of her left hand, because 
it was believed that a nerve ran from that finger 
to the heart.”—Macrobius : Sat. vii. 15, 


Ring. The Ring and the Book, An 
idyllic epic by Robert Browning, founded 
on a cause céléebre of Italian history 
(1698). Guido Franceschi’ni, a Floren- 
tine nobleman of shattered fortune, by 
the advice of his brother, Cardinal 
Paulo, marries Pompilia, an heiress, to 
repair his state. Now Pompilia was 
only a supposititious child of Pietro, 
supplied by Violante for the sake of 
preventing certain property from going 
to an heir not hisown. When the bride 
discovered the motive of the bridegroom, 
she revealed to him this fact, and the 
first trial occurs to settle the said pro- 
perty. The count treats his bride so 
brutally that she quits his roof under 
the protection of Caponsacchi, a young 
priest, and takes refuge in Rome. Guido 
follows the fugitives and arrests them 
at an inn; a trial ensues, and a separa- 
tion is permitted. Pompilia pleads for 
a divorce, but, pending the suit, gives 
birth to a son at the house of her puta- 
tive parents. The count, hearing thereof, 
murders Pietro, Violante, and Pompilia ; 
but, being taken red-handed, is executed. 


Ring (Zhe). The space set apart for 
prize-fighters, horse-racing, ete. So called 
because the spectators stand round in a 
ring. 

Ring. To make a ving. 'To combine 
in order to control the price of a given 
article. ‘Thus, if the chief merchants of 
any article (say salt, flour, or sugar) 
combine, they can fix the selling price, 
and thus secure enormous profits. 


Ring. Jt has the true ring—has in- 
trinsic merit; bears the mark of real 
talent. A metaphor taken from the 
custom of judging genuine money by 
its “‘ring”’ or sound, Ring, a circlet, is 


the Anglo-Saxon /ring ; ring, to sound 
a bell, etc., is the verb hring-an, 


Ring Down. Conclude, end at once. 
A theatrical phrase, alluding to the cus- 
tom of ringing a bell to give notice for 
the fall of the curtain. Charles Dickens 
says, ‘‘It is time to ring down on these 
remarks.”? (Speech at the Dramatic 
Féte.) 

Ring Finger. Priests used to wear 
their rig on the fore-finger (which re- 
presents the Holy Ghost) in token of 
their spiritual office. (See WEDDING 
FINGER.) 

The ving finger represents the hinan- 
ity of Christ, and is used in matrimony, 
which has only to do with humanity. . 
(See FINGER BENEDICTION.) 

Ring finger. Aulus Gellius tells us 
that Appia’nus asserts in his Egyptian 
books that a very delicate nerve runs 
from the fourth finger of the left hand 
to the heart, on which account this 
finger is used for the marriage ring. 
(Noctes, x. 10.) 

The fact has nothing to do with the 
question; that the ancients believed it 
is all we require to know. In the 
Roman Catholic Church, the thumb and 
first two fingers represent the Trinity : 
thus the bridegroom says, ‘‘ In the name 
of the Father,’’ and touches the thumb ; 
‘‘in the name of the Son,’’ and touches 
the first finger; and ‘‘in the name of 
the Holy Ghost’’ he touches the long or 
second finger. The next finger is the 
husband’s, to whom the woman owes 
allegiance next to God. The /eft hand 
is chosen to show that the woman is to 
be subject to the man. In the Hereford, 
York, and Salisbury missals, the ring is 
directed to be put first on the thumb, 
then on the first finger, then on the long 
finger, and lastly on the ring-finger, 
quia in illo dig'ito est quedam vena pro- 
ce'dens usque ad cor. 

The ving finger. Myr. Henry Swin- 
burne, in his 77catise of Spousals, printed 
1680 (p. 208), says: ‘‘The finger on 
which this ring [the wedding-ring] is to 
be worn is the fourth finger of the left 
hand, next unto the little finger; be- 
cause by the received opinion of the 
learned .. . in ripping up and auzat- 
omising men’s bodies, there is a vein of 
blood, called vena amoris, which passeth 
from that finger to the heart.”’ 


Ring Posies or so/loes. 


(1) A EI (Greek for “ Always ᾽)). 
(2) For ever and for aye. Lae 
(3) In thee, my choice, I do rejoice, 
(4) Let love increase, 


Ring a Ding-ding 


(5) May God above Increase our love, 

(6) Not two but one, Till life is gone, 

(7) My heart. and I, Until I die. 

(8) When this you see, Then think of me, 
(9) Love is heaven, and heaven is love. 
(10) Wedlock, ’tis said, In heaven is made. 


Right to wear a gold ring. Amongst 
the Romans, only senators, chief magis- 
trates, and in later times knights, en- 
joyed the jus anunuli aurci. ‘The em- 
perors conterred the right upon whom 
they pleased, and Justinian extended 
the privilege to all Roman citizens, 


Ring a Ding-ding. 

“Ring a ding-ding, ring a ding-ding! 

The Parliament soldiers are gone to the king ; 

Some they dia laugh, and some they did cry, 

To see the Parlianient soldiers go by.” 

The reference is to the several re- 
movals of Charles I, from one place of 
captivity to another, till finally he was 
brought to the block. The Parliament 
party laughed at their success, the 
Royalists wept to see the king thus 
treated. 

Ring in the Ear. A sign of slavery 
or life-long servitude. 

“Then Eldad took an awl, and, piercing his 
[Jetur’s] ears against the doorpost, made him his 
servant for ever. The elders pronounced a bless- 
ing, and Eldad put a ring through the ears of 
Jetur, asa sign that he was become his property.” 
—Eldad the Pilgrim, chay. i. 

Ring of Invisibility (Zhe), which 
belonged to Otnit, King of Lombardy, 
given to him by the queen-mother when 
he went to gain in marriage the soldan’s 
daughter, The stone of the ring had 
the virtue of directing the wearer the 


right road to take in travelling. (Zhe 
Heldenbuch.) (See GycEs’ Rina.) 
Ring One’s Own Bell (70). To be 


one’s own trumpeter. Bells are rung 
to announce any joyous event, or the 
advent of some celebrity. 


Rings Noted in Fable. 

Agramant’s ring. This enchanted 
ring was given by Agramant to the 
dwarf Brunello, from whom it was 
stolen by Brad’amant and given to 
Melissa. It passed successively into the 
hands of Roge’ro and Angelica (who 
carried it in her mouth). (Orlando 
Furioso, bk. v.) 

The ving of Amasis, The same as the 
ring of Polycratés (¢.v.). 

The Doge’: ving. The doge of Venice, 
on Ascension Day, used to throw a ring 
into the sea from the ship Bucentawr, to 
denote that the Adriatic was subject to 
the republic of Venice as a wife is sub- 
ject to her husband, 

The ving of Edward the Confessor. 
It is said that Edward the Confessor 
was once asked for alms by an old man, 


1059 


Ringing Changes 


and gave him his ring. In time some 
English pilgrims went to the Holy Land, 
and happened to meet the same old 
man, who told them he was John the 
Evangelist, and gave them the identical 
ring to take to “ Saint’? Edward. It 
was preserved in Westminster Abbey. 

The ring of Gyges (2 syl.) rendered 
the wearer invisible when its stone was 
turned inwards. 

The ring of Ogier, given him by the 
Morgue de Fay. It removed all in- 
firmities, and restored the aged to youth 
again. (See OGIER.) 

Polyc'ratés’ ring was flung into the sea 
to propitiate Nem’esis, and was found 


again by the owner inside a fish. (Sve 
GLascow ARMs.) 
The ring of Pope Innocent. On May 


29th, 1205, Pope Innocent III. sent 
John, King of England, four gold rings 
set with precious stones, and in his letter 
says the gift is emblematical. He thus 
explains the matter: The rotundity sig- 
nifies e/ernity—remember we are passing 
through time into eternity. The number 
signifies the four virtues which make up 
constancy of mind—viz. ‘‘ justice, forti- 
tude, prudence, and temperance.’’ The 
material signifies ‘‘ wisdom from on 
high,’”’ which is as gold purified in the 
fire. The green emerald is emblem of 
‘faith,”’ the blue sapphire of ‘“ hope,”’ 
the red garnet of ‘‘charity,’”? and the 
bright topaz of ‘‘ good works.”” (Rymer: 
Feedera, vol, 1. 139.) 

Reynard’s wonderful ving. This ring, 
which existed only in the brain of Rey- 
nard, had a stone of three colours—red, 
white, and green. The 7ed made the 
night as clear as the day; the white 
cured all manner of diseases; and the 
green rendered the wearer of the ring 
invincible. (Leeynard the Fox, chap. xii.) 

He must have got possession of Rey- 
nard’s ring. He bore a charmed life; 
he was one of Nature’s favourites ; all 
he did prospered. Reynard affirmed 
that he had sent King Lion a ring with 
three gems—one ed, which gave light in 
darkness; one white, which cured all 
pains and wounds, even those arising 
trom indigestion and fever; and one 
green, Which guarded the wearer fram 
every ill both in peace and war. (A/k- 
mar: Reynard the Fox, 1498.) 

Solomon’s ring, among other wonderful 
things, sealed up the refractory Jins in 
jars, and cast them into the Red Sea. 


Ringing Changes. Bantering each 
other; turning the tables on a jester. 
The allusion is to bells. (Sce PEAL,) 


Ringing the Changes 1060 Rising in the Air 
Ringing the Changes. A method Rip Van Winkle slept twenty years 
of swindling by changing gold and silver | in the Kaatskill mountains. (See 
in payment of goods. For example: A | WINKLE.) 


man goes to a tavern and asks for two- 
pennyworth of whisky. He lays on the 
counter half a sovereign, and receives 
nine shillings and tenpence in change. 
“ΟἹ "ἢ (says the man) “give me the 
half-sovereign back, I have such a lot of 
change.’ He then takes up ten shillings 
in silver and receives back the half- 
sovereign. The barmaid is about to 
take up the silver when the man says, 
‘Give me a sovereign in lieu of this 
half-sovereign and ten shillingsworth of 
silver.’’ This is done, and, of course, the 
barmaid loses ten shillings by the trans- 
action. 


Ringing Island. The Church of 
Rome. It is an island because it is 
isolated or cut off from the world. It is 
a ringing island because bells are inces- 
santly ringing: at matin and vespers, at 
mass and at sermon-time, at noon, vigils, 
eves, and so on. It is entered only after 
four days’ fasting, without which none 
in the Romish Church enter holy orders. 


Ringleader. ‘The person who opens 
a ball or leads off a dance (see Holly- 
band’s Dictionary, 1593). ‘The dance 
referred to was commenced by the party 
taking hands round in a ring, instead of 
in two lines as in the country dance. 
The leader in both cases has to set the 


figures. One who organises and leads a 
party. 
Riot. Zo ru riot. To act ina very 


disorderly way. Riot means debauchery 
or wild merriment. 

“ See, Riot her luxurious howl prepares.” 

Tableau of Cebes. 

Rip (4). He's a regular vip. A rip 
of a fellow. A precious vip. Applied 
to children, means one who rips or tears 
his clothes by boisterous play, careless- 
ness, or indifference. Anglo-Saxon 
ryplan)|, to spoil, to tear, to break in 
pieces. 

He is a sad rip. A sad rake or de- 
bauchee; seems to be a perversion of 
rep, as in demirep, meaning rep, 7.¢. 
rep-robate. 

“Some forlorn, worn-out old rips, broken-kneed 
and broken-winded.”— Du Maurier; Peter Ibbet- 
son, part Vi. p. 376. 

Rip. 170 rip up old grievances or sores. 
To bring them again to recollection, to 
recall them. The allusion is to breaking 
up a place in search of something hidden 
and out of sight. (Anglo-Saxon.) 


“They ripped up all that had been done from 
the beginning of the Rebellion.”—Clarendon. 


Ripaille, J am living at Ripaille—in 
idleness and pleasure. (French, faire 
Ripaille.) Amadeus VIII., Duke of 
Savoy, retired to Ripaille, near Geneva, 
where he threw off all the cares of state, 
and lived among boon companions in the 
indulgence of unrestrained pleasure. 
(See SYBARITE. ) 


Riph’ean or Rhiphez’an Rocks. 
Any cold mountains in a north country, 
The fabled Rhiphzan mountains were in 
Scythia. 

τ“ Cold Riphean rocks, which the wild Russ 


Believes the stony girdle of the world.” 
Thomson: Autumn. 


The poet here speaks of the Weliki 
Camenypoys (great stone girdle) supposed 
by the early Russians to have girded the 
whole earth. 


Rip’on. True as Ripon steel. Ripon 
used to be famous for its steel spurs, 
which were the best in the world. The 
spikes of a Ripon spur would strike 
through a shilling-piece without turning 
the point. 


Riquet with a Tuft, from the French 
Riquet ἃ la Houppe, by Charles Per- 
rault, borrowed .from The Nights of 
Straparola, and imitated by Madame 
Villeneuve in her Beauty and the Beast. 
Riquet is the beau-ideal of ugliness, but 
had the power of endowing the person 
he loved best with wit and intelligence. 
He falls in love with a beautiful woman 
as stupid as Riquet is ugly, but possess- 
ing the power of endowing the person 
she loves best with beauty. The two 
marry and exchange gifts. 


Rise. 170 take arise out of one. Hot- 
ten says this is a metaphor from fly-fish- 
ing; the fish vise to the fly, and are 
caught. 


Rising in the Air. In the Middle 
Ages, persons believed that saints were 
sometimes elevated from the ground by 
religious ecstasy. St. Philip of Neri 
was sometimes raised to the height of 
several yards, occasionally to the ceiling 
of theroom. Ignatius Loyola was some- 
times raised up two or three feet, and 
his body became luminous. St. Robert 
de Palentin was elevated in his ecstasies 
eighteen or twenty inches. St. Dunstan, 
a little before his death, was observed to 
rise from the ground. And Girolamo 
Savonarola, just prior to execution, knelt 
in prayer, and was lifted from the floor 
of hiscell into mid-air, where heremained 


Rivals 


suspended fora considerable time. (Acta 
Sanctorum.) 


Rivals. ‘‘ Persons dwelling on oppo- 
site sides of a river.’? Forsyth derives 
these words from the Latin riva'lis, a 
riverman. Czlius says there was no 
more fruitful source of contention than 
river-right, both with beasts and men, 
not only for the benefit of its waters, but 
also because rivers are natural boun- 
daries. Hence Ariosto compares Orlando 
and Ag’rican to ‘‘ two hinds quarrelling 
for the river-right ”? (xxiii. 83). 

River Demon or River Horse was 
the Kelpie of the Lowlands of Scotland. 


River of Paradise. St. Bernard, 
Abbot of Clairvaux, ‘‘ the Last of the 
Fathers,’’ was so called. (1091-1153.) 


River Flowing from the Ocean 
Inland. The stream from the Bay of 
Tadjoura, on the north-east coast of 
Africa. It empties itself into Lake 
Assal. 


Rivers. Jiles in length. 

2,578, the Nile, the longest river in 
Africa. 

2,762, the Volga, the longest river in 
Europe. 

3,314, the Yang-tze-Kiang, the longest 
river in Asia. 

3,716, the Mississippi, the longest river 
in America. 


Roach. Sound as a roach (French, 
Sain comme une roche). Sound as a rock. 


Road. (Gentlemen of the road or 
Knights of the voad. Highwaymen. 
In the latter a dcuble pun is implied. 
A first-class highwayman, like Robin 
Hood, is a ‘‘ Colossus of Roads.”’ 

King of Roads [Rhodes]. John Loudon 
Macadam (1756-1836). 

The law of the road— 


“ The law of the road is a paradox quite, 
In riding or driving along ; ὃ 
If you go to the left you are sure to go right, 


ῃ 


If you go to the right you go wrong.” 


Road or Roadstead, as ‘‘ Yarmouth 
Roads,’’ a place where ships can ride at 
anchor. (French, vader, to anchor in a 
rade ; Anglo-Saxon, vad, a road or place 
for riding.) 


Road-agent. A highwayman in the 
mountain districts of North America. 


“Road-agent is the name applied in the moun- 
tains to a ruffian who has given up honest work 
in the store, in the mine, in the ranch, for the 
perils and profits of the highway.”’—W. Hepworth 
Dixon: New America, i. 14. 


Roads. All voads lead to Rome. All 
efforts of thought converge in a common 
centre, 


1061 


Rob Roy 


— 


Roan. A reddish-brown. This is 
the Greek eruthron or eruthreon ; whence 
the Latin rufwm. (The Welsh have 
rhudd ; German, roth; Anglo-Saxon, 
rud ; our ruddy.) 


Roan Barbary. The famous charger 
of Richard II., which ate from his royal 
hand. (See Ricuarp 11.) 


Roarer. <A broken-winded horse is 
so called from the noise it makes in 
breathing. 


Roaring Boys or Roarers. The 
riotous blades of Ben Jonson’s time, 
whose delight it was to annoy quiet folk. 
At one time their pranks in London were 
carried to an alarming extent. 

“ And bid them think on Jones amidst this glee, 

In hope to get such roaring boys as he.” 

Le ond of Captain Jones 059) 

Roaring Forties (7c). What sea- 
men understand by this term is a zone 
of strong winds about lat. 40° S., where a 
strong wind prevails throughout the 
year, from W.N.W. to E.S.E. There is 
a similar zone in the northern hemi- 
sphere, but the current of the wind is 
interrupted by the prevalence of land. 
The tendency, however, is from W.S.W. 
to E.N.E. 


Roaring Game (7). 
call the game of curling. 


Roaring Trade. 716 drives aroaring 
trade. He does a great business; his 
employees are driven till all their wind 
is gone. Hence fast, quick. (Sce above.) 


Roast. 170 rule the roast. To have 
the chief direction ; to be paramount. 

¥ It is usually thought that ‘‘roast”’ 
in this phrase means 70st, and that the 
reference is to a cock, who decides which 
hen is to roost nearest to him; but the 
subjoined quotation favours the idea of 
** council.” 

“John, Duke of Burgoyne, ruled the rost, and 
governed both King Charles... and his whole 
realme.”—Hall: Union (1548). 

Roasting One. 170 give one a roast- 
ing. To banter him, to expose him to 
sharp words. Shakespeare, in Hamlet, 
speaks of roasting ‘‘in wrath and fire.” 


Rob. A sort of jam. It is a Spanish 
word, taken from the Arabic 7004 (the 
juice of fruit). 

Faire un vob (in whist). To win the 
rubber; that is, either two successive 
games, or two out of three. Borrowed 
from the game of bowls. 


Rob Roy (Robert the Red). A nick- 
name given to Robert M‘Gregor, who 


So the Scotch 


Robber 


1062 


Robin Goodfellow 


τ ΄΄͵΄’’΄--.----ς-----.-.-Ἐ--- -- “-ς-- “ SSS 


assumed the name of Campbell when 
the clan M‘Gregor was outlawed by the 
Scotch Parliament in 1662. He may be 
termed the Robin Hood of Scotland. 


“ Rather beneath the middle size than above it, 
his limbs were formed upon the very strongest 


model that is consistent with agility... . Two 
points in his person interfered with the rules of 
symmetry : his shoulders were 50 broad... as to 


give him the air of being too square in respect to 
his stature ; and his arms, though round, sinewy, 
and strong, were so very long as to be rather a 
deformity.’ —Sir Walter Scott: Rob Roy McGregor, 
XXill. 

Robber. The highwayman who told 
Alexander that he was the greater robber 
of the two was named Dion‘idés. ‘The 
tale is given in Evenings at Home under 
the title of Alexander and the Robber. 

Robber. Edward IV. of England 
was called by the Scotch Edward the 
Robber. 


Robbing Peter to pay Paul. On 
December 17th, 1550, the abbey church 
of St. Peter, Westminster, was advanced 
to the dignity of a cathedral by letters 
patent ; but ten years later it was joined 
to the diocese of London again, and 
many of its estates appropriated to the 
repairs of St. Paul’s Cathedral. (Winkle: 
Cathedrals, ) 

“Tanquam siquis crucifigeret Paulum ut re- 
dimeret Petrum.” (Twelfth century.) 

“Tt was not desirable to rob St. Peter's altar in 
order to build one to St. Paul.’—Viglius: Com. 
Dec. Denurii, i. 9 (1509). 

Robert. King Robert of Sicily. A 
metrical romance of the Trouveur, taken 
from the Story of the Emperor Jovinian 
in the Gesta Romano'rum, and borrowed 
from the Zalmud. It finds ἃ place 
in the Arabian Nights, the Turkish 
Tutinameh, the Sanskrit Pantschatantra, 
and has been réchauffé by Longfellow 
under the same name. 

Robert, Robin. A highwayman. 


Robert Francois Damiens, who 
attempted to assassinate Louis XV., is 
called ‘* Robert the Devil.’’ (1714-1757.) 


Robert Macaire. He’s a Robert 
Macaire. A bluff, free-living, unblush- 
ing libertine, who commits the most 
horrible crimes without stint or com- 
punction. It is a character in M. Dau- 
mier’s drama of L’ Auberge des Adrets, 
His accomplice is Bertrand, a simpleton 
and villain. (See MACAIRE.) 


Robert Street (Adelphi, London). 
So called from Robert Adams, the 
builder. 


Robert le Diable. The son of 
Bertha and Bertramo. The former was 
daughter of Robert, Duke of Normandy, 
and the latter was a fiend in the guise of 


aknight. The opera shows the struggle 
in Robert between the virtue inherited 
from his mother, and the vice imparted 
by his father. He is introduced as a 
libertine; but Alice, his foster-sister, 
places in his hand the will of his mother, 
‘“‘which he is not to read till he is 
worthy.’’ Bertramo induces him to 
gamble till he loses everything, and 
finally claims his soul ; but Alice counter- 
plots the fiend, and finally triumphs by 
reading to Robert the will of his mother. 
(Meyerbeer: Roberto il Diavolo, an opera.) 


Robert the Devil. Robert, first 
Duke of Normandy; so called for his 
daring and cruelty. The Norman tradi- 
tion is that his wandering ghost will not 
be allowed to rest till the Day of Judg- 
ment. He is also called Robert the Mag- 
nificent. (1028-1035.) 


Robert of Brunne, that is, of 
Bourne, in Lincolnshire. His name 
was Robert Manning, author of an 
old English Chronicle, written in the 
reign of Edward III. It consists of two 
parts, the first of which is in octo- 
syllabic rhymes, and is a translation of 
Wace’s Brut; the second part is in 
Alexandrine verse, and is a translation 
of the French chronicle of Piers de 
Langtoft, of Yorkshire. 

“ Of Brunne Iam, if any me blame, ἡ 

Robert Mannying ismy name... 
In the thrid Edwardes tyme was I 
When I wrote alle this story.” 
Preface to Chronicle. 

Robert’s Men. Bandits, marauders, 

ete. So called from Robin Hood, the 


outlaw, 


Robespierre’s Weavers. The fish- 
women and other female rowdies who 
joined the Parisian Guard, and helped 
to line the avenues to the National As- 
sembly in 1793, and clamour ‘‘ Down 
with the Girondists!”’ 


Robin Goodfellow. A “ drudging 
fiend,’ and merry domestic fairy, famous 
for mischievous pranks and practical 
jokes. At night-time he will sometimes 
do little services for the family over 
which he presides. The Scotch call this 
domestic spirit a brownie ; the Germans, 
kobold or Knecht Ruprecht. The Scandi- 
navians called it Nissé God-dreng. 
Puck, the jester of Fairy-court, is the 
same. 


τ Bither I mistake your shape and making quite, 
Or else you are that shrewd and knayish sprite 
Called Robin Goodfellow. ... 

Those that Hob-goblin call you, and sweet Puck, 

You ae their work, and they shall haye good 
luck.’ 

Shakespeare: Midsummer Night's Dream, ii. 1, 


(See Farry.) 


Robin Gray 


Robin Gray (Auld). Words by Lady 
Anne Lindsay, daughter of the Earl of 
Balcarres, and afterwards Lady Barnard, 
in 1772, written to an old Scotch tune 
called ‘‘ The bridegroom grat when the 
sun gaed down.’”’ Auld Robin Gray was 
the herdsman of her father. When Lady 
Anne had written a part, she called her 
younger sister for advice. She said, ‘‘I 
am writing a ballad of virtuous distress 
in humble life. I have oppressed my 
heroine with sundry troubles: for ex- 
ample, I have sent her Jamie to sea, 
broken her father’s arm, made her 
mother sick, given her Auld Robin Gray 
for a lover, and want a fifth sorrow; can 
you help me toone?’’ ‘‘Steal the cow, 
sister Anne,’’ said the little Elizabeth; 
so the cow was stolen awa’, and the song 
completed. 

Robin Hood is first mentioned by 
the Scottish historian Fordun, who died 
in 1386, According to Stow, he was an 
outlaw in the reign of Richard I. 
(twelfth century). He entertained one 
hundred tall men, all good archers, with 
the spoil he took, but ‘‘he suffered no 
woman to be oppressed, violated, or 
otherwise molested; poore men’s goods 
he spared, abundantlie relieving them 
with that which by theft he got from 
abbeys and houses of rich carles.’’ He 
was an immense favourite with the com- 
mon people, who havedubbed him anear!. 
Stukeley says he was Robert Fitzooth, 
Earl of Huntingdon. (See RoBERT.) 

According to oue tradition, Robin 
Hood and Little John were two heroes 
defeated with Simon de Montfort at the 
battle of Evesham, in 1265, Fuller, in 
his /Vorthies, considers him an historical 
character, but Thierry says he simply 
represents a class—viz. the remnant of 
the old Saxon race, which lived in per- 
petual defiance of the Norman oppres- 
sors from the time of Hereward. 

Other examples of similar combina- 
tions are the Cumberland bandits, headed 
by Adam Bell, Clym of the Clough, and 
William of Cloudesley. 

An old sporting magazine of De- 
cember, 1808, says the true name of 
Robin Hood was Fitzooth, and Fitz 
being omitted leaves Ooth, and con- 
verting th into d it became ‘‘Ood.” 
He was grandson of Ralph Fitzooth, 
Karl of Kyme, a Norman, who came to 
England in the reign of William Rufus. 
His maternal grandfather was Gilbert 
de Gaunt, Earl of Lincoln, and his 
grandmother was Lady Roisia de Bere, 
sister to the Earl of Oxford. His father 
was under the guardianship of Robert, 


1063 


Robin Hood 


Earl of Oxford, who, by the king’s 
order, gave him in marriage the third 
daughter of Lady Roisia. (Noles and 
Queries, May 21st, 1887.) 

The traditions about Fulk Fitz- 
Warine, great-grandson of Warine of 
Metz, so greatly resemble those con- 
nected with ‘*‘ Robin Hood,”’ that some 
suppose them to be both one. Fitz- 
Warine quarrelled with John, and when 
John was king he banished Fulk, who 
became a bold forester. (See Notes and 
Queries, November 27th, 1886, pp. 421- 
424.) 

Bow and arrow of Robin Hood. The 
traditional bow and arrow of Robin 
Hood are religiously preserved at Kirk- 
lees Hall, Yorkshire, the seat of Sir 
George Armytage; and the site of his 
grave is pointed out in the park. 

Death of Robin Hood. He was bled 
to death treacherously by a nun, insti- 
gated to the foul deed by his kinsman, 
the prior of Kirklees, Yorkshire, near 
Halitax. Introduced by Sir Walter 
Scott in Zvanhoe. 

Epitaph of Robin Hood. 

“ Hear, underneath this latil stean, 
Laiz Robert earl of Huntington ; 
Nea arcir ver az hie sae geud, 
An pipl kauld him Robin Heud. 
Sich utlaz az he an hiz men 
Vil England nivr si agen.” 
|Obit. 24, Kalend Dikembris, 1247. 

** Notwithstanding this epitaph, it is 
generally thought that Robin Hood died 
in 1325, which would bring him into the 
reign of Edward II., not Richard I., ac- 
cording to Sir Walter Scott. 

In the accounts of King Edward II.’s 
household is an item which states that 
“Robin Hood received his wages as 
king’s valet, and a gratuity on leaving 
the service.’? One of the ballads relates 
how Robin Hood took service under this 
king. 

Many talk of Robin Hood who never 
shot with his bow. Many brag of deeds in 
which they took no part. Many talk of 
Robin Hood, and wish their hearers to 
suppose they took part in hisadventures, 
but they never put a shaft to one of his 
bows; nor could they have bent it even 
if they had tried. 

To sell Robin Hood’s pennyworth is to 
sell things at half their value. As Robin 
Hood stole his wares, he sold them, under 
their intrinsic value, for just what he 
could get on the nonce. 

Robin Hood and Guy of Gisborne. 
Robin Hood and Little John, having 
had a tiff, part company; when Little 
John falls into the hands of the sheriff of 
Nottingham, who binds him to a tree.. 


Robin Hood Wind 


1064 


Rochester 


Meanwhile, Robin Hood meets with Guy 
of Gisborne, sworn to slay the ‘ bold 
forrester.”’ The two bowmen struggle 
together, but Guy is slain, and Robin 
Hood rides till he comes to the tree 
where Little John is bound. The sheriff 
mistakes him for Guy of Gisborne, and 
gives him charge of the prisoner. Robin 
cuts the cord, hands Guy’s bow to Little 
John, and the two soon put to flight the 
sheriff and his men. (Lercy : Leliques, 
etc., series i.) 

Robin Hood Wind (4). A cold 
thaw-wind. ‘Tradition runs that Robin 
Hood used to say he could bear any cold 
except that which a thaw-wind brought 
with it. 

Robin Mutton (4). A simpleton. 

“Do you see this ram? His name is Robin. 
Here, Robin, Robin, Robin. ... We will get a 
pair of scales, and then you, Robin Mutton [Pan- 
urge], shall be weighed against Tup Robin,... 
etc.’—Rabelais : Pantagruel, iy. 7. 

Robin Redbreast. The tradition is 
that when our Lord was on His way to 
Calvary, a robin picked a thorn out of 
His crown, and the blood which issued 
from the wound falling on the bird dyed 
its breast with red. (See CHRISTIAN 
TRADITIONS. ) 

Robin Redbreasts. Bow Street runners 
were so called from their red waistcoats. 


Robin and Ma‘kyne (2 syl.). An 
ancient Scottish pastoral. Robin is a 
shepherd for whom Makyne sighs. She 
goes to him and tells her love, but Robin 
turns a deaf ear, and the damsel goes 
home to weep. After a time the tables 
are turned, and Robin goes to Makyne 
to plead for her heart and hand ; but the 
damsel replies— 

‘“ The man that will not when he may 

5411 have nocht when he wald.” 
Percy: Reliques, etc., series ii. 

Robin of Bagshot. Noted for the 
number of his aliases (see ALIAS); but 
Deeming had nine: viz. Williams, Ward, 
Swanston, Levey, Lord Dunn, Lawson, 
Mollatt, Drewe, and Baron Swanston. 

“You have as many aliases as Robin of Bag- 
shot.” 

Robinson Crusoe. Alexander Sel- 
kirk was found in the desert island of 
Juan Fernandez, where he had been left 
by Captain Stradling. He remained on 
the island four years and four months, 
when he was rescued by Captain Rogers, 
and brought to England. The embryo 
of De Foe’s novel may be seen in Captain 
Burney’s interesting narrative. 


Robinsonians. They were followers 
of John Robinson, of Leyden. The 


Brownists were followers of Robert 
Brown. The Brownists were most rigid 
separatists ; the Robinsonians were only 
semi-separatists. 


Roc. A fabulous white bird of enor- 
mous size, and such strength that it can 
“truss elephants in its talons,’’? and 
carry them to its mountain nest, where 
it devours them. (Arabian Nights ; The 
Third Calender, and Sinbad the Sailor.) 


Roch (S¢.). Patron of those afflicted 
with the plague, because he devoted his 
life to their service, and is said to inter- 
cede for them in his exaltation. He is 
depicted in a pilgrim’s habit, lifting his 
dress to display a plague-spot on his 
thigh, which an angel is touching that 
he may cure it. Sometimes he is accom- 
panied by a dog bringing bread in his 
mouth, in allusion to the legend that a 
hound brought him bread daily while he 
was perishing in a forest of pestilence. 

St. Roch’s Day (August 16th), for- 
merly celebrated in England asa general 
harvest-home, and styled ‘‘the great 
August festival.”” The Anglo - Saxon 
name of it was harfest (herb-feast), the 
word herd meaning autumn (German 
herbst), and having no relation to what 
we call herbs. 

St. Roch et son chien. 
Darby and Joan. 


Roche. Jen of la vieille roche. Old- 
fashioned men ; men of fossilised ideas ; 
non-progressive men. A geological ex- 
pression. 

“Perhaps it may be justly attributed toa class 
of producers, men of la vieille roche, that they 
haye been so slow to apprehend the changes 
which are daily presenting themselves in the re- 
quirements of trade.’—The Times. 

Sir Boyle Roche’s bird. Sir Boyle 
Roche, quoting from Jevon’s play (7he 
Devil of a Wife), said on one occasion 
in the House, ‘‘ Mr. Speaker, it is im- 
possible I could have been in two places 
at once, unless I were a bird.”’ 

“Presuming that the duplicate card is the 
knave of hearts, you may make a remark on the 
ubiquitous nature of certain cards, which, like 
Sir Boyle Roche’s bird, are in two places at once.” 
—Drawing-room Magic. 

Rochelle Salt. So called because it 
was discovered by an apothecary of 
Rochelle, named Seignette, in 1672. 


Roches (Catharine des) had a collec- 
tion of poems written on her, termed La 
Puce de Grands-jours de Poitiers. 


Inseparables ; 


Rochester, according to Bede, de- 
rives its name from “ Hrof,’? a Saxen 
chieftain, (Hrofs-ceaster, Hrof’s castle.) 


Rock 


1065 


Rodolpho 


τ 


Rock. A quack; so called from one 
Rock, who was the ‘ Holloway” of 
Queen Anne’s reign. 


“Ob, when his nerves had once received a shock, 
Sir Isaac Newton might have gone to Rock.” 
Crabbe: Borough. 


The Ladies’ Rock. A crag in Scotland 
under the castle rock of Stirling, where 
ladies used to witness tournaments. 

“In the castle hill is a hollow called The Valley 
about a square acre in extent, used for justings 
and tournaments, On the south side of the valley 
is a small rocky pyramidical mount, called The 
Ladies’ Hill or Rock, where the ladies sat to wit- 
ness the spectacle.’—Nimmo: History of Stirling- 
shire, p. 282. 

People of the Rock. The inhabitants 
of Hejaz or Arabia Petra. 

Captain Rock. A fictitious name as- 
sumed by the leader of the Irish insur- 
gents in 1822. 


Rock ahead (4). A _ sea-phrase, 
meaning that a rock is in the path of the 
ship, which the helmsman. must steer 
clear of ; a danger threatens; an oppo- 
nent ; an obstruction. 

“That yonker ... has been a rock ahead to me 
all my life.’—Sir W. Scott: Guy Mannering, 
chap. liy. 

Rock Cork. A variety of asbestos, 
resembling cork, It is soft, easily cut, 
and very light. 


Rock Crystal. Thespecimens which 
enclose hair-like substances are called 
Thetis’s hair-stone, Venus’s hair-stone, 
Venus’s pencils, Cupid’s net, Cupid’s 
arrows, ete. 


Rock Day. The day after Twelfth- 
day, when, the Christmas holidays being 
over, women returned to their rock or 
distaff. 


Rococo. C'est dw rococo. It is mere 
twaddle; Brummagem finery; make- 
believe. (Italian 7oco, uncouth.) 


Roco’co Architecture. A debased 
style, which succeeded the revival of 
Italian architecture, and very prevalent 
in Germany. The ornamentation is with- 
out principle or taste, and may be desig- 
nated ornamental design run mad. The 
Rock-temple of Ellora, in India, is most 
lavishly decorated. 

“The sacristy of St. Lorenzo. . . was the hegin- 
ning of that wonderful mixture of antique regu- 
larity with the capricious bizarrerie of modern 
times, the last barren fruit of which was the 
rococo.” — H. Grimm: Michel Angelo, vol. ii. 
chap. xi. p. 173. 

_ Roco’co Jewellery, strictly speak- 
ing, means showy jewellery made up of 
several different stones. Moorish decora- 
tion and Watteau’s paintings are rococo. 
The term is now generally used depre- 
ciatingly for flashy, gaudy. Louis XIV. 


furniture, with gilding and ormolu, is 
sometimes termed rococo. 


Rod. 70 kiss the rod. (See Kiss THE 
Ron.) 
Rod-men. Anglers, who use line 


and fishing-rod. 

“You will be nearly sure to meet one or two old 
rod-men sipping their toddy there."—J, K, Jerome: 
Three Men in a Boat, chap. xvii. 

Rod in Pickle (4). A scolding in 
store. ‘The rod is laid in pickle to keep 
it ready for use. 

Roderick, the thirty-fourth and last 
of the Visigothic kings, was the son of 


Theod’ofred, and grandson of King 
Chindasuin’tho. Witi’'za, the usurper, 


put out the eyes of Theod’ofred, and 
murdered Favil’a, a younger brother of 
Roderick; but Roderick, having re- 
covered his father’s throne, put out the 
eyes of the usurper. The sons of 
Witi’za, joining with Count Julian, in- 
vited the aid of Muza ibn Nozeir, the 
Arab chief, who sent Tarik into Spain 
with a large army. Roderick was 
routed at the battle of Guadale’te, near 
Xeres de la Fronte’ra (July 17th, 711). 
Southey has taken this story for an epic 
poem in twenty-five books—blank verse. 
(See RODRIGO.) 

Roderick Random. (Sve Ranpom.) 


Roderigo. A Venetian gentleman in 
Shakespeare’s Othello. He was in love 
with Desdemona, and when the lad 
eloped with Othello, hated the ‘‘noble 
Moor.”’ Jago took advantage of this 
temper for his own ends, told his dupe 
the Moor will change, therefore ‘ put 
money in thy purse.’? The burden of 
his advice was always the same—‘ Put 
money in thy purse.’ 

This word is sometimes pronounced 
Rod'r-igo: δι. ‘‘Itis as sure as you are 
Roderigo;”’ and sometimes Rode-ri’go : 
e.g. ‘*On, good Roderigo; I’ll deserve 
your pains.’’ (Act i. scene 1.) 


Rodhaver. The lady-love of Zal, a 
Persian hero. Zal wanted to scale her 
bower, and Rodhaver let down her long 
tresses to assist him; but the lover 
managed to climb to his mistress by 
fixing his crook into a projecting beam. 
(Champion : Ferdosi.) 

Rodilar’dus. A huge cat which 
scared Panurge, and which he declared 
to be a puny devil. The word means 
*“enaw-bacon”’ (Latin, vodo-lardum). 
(Rabelais: Gargantua and Pantagruel, 
iv. 67.) 

Rodol’pho (Count). The count, re- 
turning from his travels, puts up for the 


Rodomont 


1066 


Rogero 


night at an inn near his castle. While 
in bed, a lady enters his chamber, and 
speaks to him of her devoted love. It is 
Ami‘na, the somnambulist, who has wan- 
dered thither in her sleep. Rodolpho 
perceives the state of the case, and quits 
the apartment. _ The villagers, next 
morning, come to congratulate their lord 
on his return, and find his bed occupied 
bya lady, The tongue of scandal is loud 
against her, but the count explains to 
them the mystery, and his tale is con- 
firmed by their own eyes, which see 
Amina at the moment getting out of 
the window of a mill, and walking in 
her sleep along the edge of a roof under 
which the wheel of the mill is rolling 
with velocity. She crosses the crazy 
bridge securely, and everyone is con- 
vinced of her innocence. (Bellini: La 
Sonnambula.) (Sce Amina, ELVINO.) 


Rod’omont (in Orlando Inamorato 
and Orlando Furioso). King of Sarza 
or Algiers, Ulien’s son, and called the 
‘“Mars of Africa.’? He was commander 
both of horse and foot in the Saracen 
army sent against Charlemagne, and may 
be termed the Achilles of the host. His 
lady-love was Dorvalis, Princess of 
Grana’da, who ran off with Mandri- 
cardo, King of Tartary. At Roge’ro’s 
wedding-feast Rodomont rode up to the 
king of France in full armour, and 
accused Roge’ro, who had turned Chris- 
tian, of being a traitor to King Agra- 
mant, his master and ,a ‘renegade; 
whereupon Roge'ro met him in single 
combat, and slew him. (Sze RoGERO.) 

“Who more brave than Rodomont ?”— Cer- 
vantes : Don Quixote. 

Rod’omonta/’de (4 syl.). From Ro- 
domont, a brave but braggart knight 
in Bojardo’s Orlando Inamorato, He is 
introduced into the continuation of the 
story by Ariosto (Orlando Furioso), but 
the braggart part of his character is 
greatly toned down. Neither Rodo- 
mont nor Hector deserves the oppro- 
bium which has been attached to their 
names. (See RODOMONT.) 


Rodrigo [ Rod-7ce'-go| or Roderick, 
King of Spain, conquered by the Arabs, 
He saved his life by flight, and wandered 
to Guadalet’e, where he saw a shepherd, 
and asked food. In return he gave the 
shepherd his royal chain and ring. He 
passed the night in the cell of a hermit, 
who told him that by way of penance he 
must pass certain days in a tomb full of 
snakes, toads, and lizards. After three 
days the hermit went to see him, and he 
was unhurt, ‘‘ because the Lord kept His 


“Weyde, painter. 


anger against him,.”’ The hermit went 
home, passed the night in prayer, and 
went again to the tomb, when Rodrigo 
said, ‘‘They eat me now, they eat me 
now, I feel the adder’s bite.’’ So his sin 
was atoned for, and he died. 


Rogation Days. The Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday before Ascen- 
sion Day. Rogation is the Latin equiva- 
lent of the Greek word “‘ Litany,’’ and on 
the three Rogation days ‘the Litany of 
the Saints”’ is appointed to be sung by 
the clergy and people in public proces. 


sion. (‘‘Litany,’? Greek litaneia, sup- 
plication. ‘‘ Rogation,’’ Latin rogatio, 


same meaning. ) 


Rogation Week used to be called 
Gang Week, from the custom of ganging 
round the country parishes to mark 
their bounds. Similarly, the weed Milk- 
wort is still called Rogation or Gang- 
flower, from the custom of decorating 
the pole (carried on such occasions by 
the charity children) with these flowers. 


Rogel of Greece. A knight, whose 
exploits and adventures form a supple- 
mental part of the Spanish romance 
entitled Amadis of Gaul. This part 
was added by Feliciano de Silva. 


Roger. The cook in Chaucer’s Can- 
terbury Tales. ‘* He cowde roste, sethe, 
broille, and frie. Make mortreux, and 
wel bake a pye;’’ but Herry Bailif, the 
host, said to him— 


“ Now telle on, Roger, and loke it he good ; 
For many a Jakk of Dover hastow sold. 
That hath be twyés hoot and twyés cold.” 

Verse 4343, 

Roger Bontemps. (Sce BONTEMPS.) 

The Jolly Roger, The black flag, the 
favourite ensign of pirates, 

“Set all sail, clear the deck, stand to quarters, 
up with the Jolly Roger !"—Sir Walter Scott: The 
Pirate, chap. XxXi. 

Roger of Bruges. Roger van der’ 
(1455-1529.) 

Roger de Coverley. A dance invented 
by the great-grandfather of Roger de 
Coverley, or Roger of Cowley, near 
Oxford. Named after the squire de- 
scribed in Addison’s Spectator. 

Roger of Hoveden or Howden, in York- 
shire, continued Bede’s History from 
732 to 1202. The reigns of Henry II. 
and Richard I. are very fully given. 
The most matter-of-fact of all our old 
chroniclers; he indulges in no epithets 
or reflections. 


Roge’ro, Ruggiero, or Rizieri of 
Risa (in Orlando Furioso), was brother 
of Marphi’sa, and son of Rogero and 
Galacella. He married Brad’amant, 


Rogue Ingrain 


1067 


Charlemagne’s niece, but had no issue. 
Galacella being slain by Ag’olant and 
his sons, Rogero was nursed by a lioness. 
Rogero deserted from the Moorish army 
to the Christian Charles, and was bap- 
tised. His marriage with Bradamant 
and election to the crown of Bulgaria 
conclude the poem. 

Rogero was brought up by Atlantes, a 
magician, who gave him a shield of such 
dazzling splendour that everyone quailed 
who set eyes on it. Rogero, thinking it 
unknightly to carry a charmed shield, 
threw it into a well. 

“Who more courteous than Rogero?”—Cer- 
vantes : Don Quixote. 

Rogero (in Jerusalem Delivered), 
brother of Boemond, and son of Roberto 
Guiscardo, of the Norman race, was one 
of the band of adventurers in the cru- 
sading army. Slain by Tisaphernes. 
(Bk. xx.) 


Rogue Ingrain (4). Inerain colours 
are what we call ‘‘ fast colours,’’ colours 
which will not fly or wash out. A rogue 
ingrain means one rotten to the core, one 
whose villainy is deep-seated, 

“Tis ingrain, sir; ‘twill endure wind and 
weather.’”’—Shakespeare: Twelfth Night, i. 5. 

Roi Panade [King of Slops]. Louis 
XVIII. was so nicknamed. (1705, 1814- 
1824.) 


Roland, Count of Mans and Knight 
of Blaives, was son of Duke Milo of Aig- 
lant, his mother being Bertha, the sister 
of Charlemagne. His sword was called 
Durandal, and his horse Veillantiff. He 
was eight feet high, and had an open 
countenance, which invited confidence, 
but inspired respect. In Italian romance 
he is called Orlando, his sword Diuwan- 
da'na, and his horse Jeglianti’'no. (See 
Song of Roland.) 

“T knew of no one to compare him to but the 
Archangel Michael.”"—Croqguemitaine, iii. 

Roland, Called the Christian Theseus 
(2 syl.), or the Achilles of the West. 

Roland or Rolando (Orlando in Italian). 
One of Charlemagne’s paladins and 
nephews. He is represented as brave, 
loyal, and simple-minded. On the return 
of Charlemagne from Spain, Roland, 
who commanded the rear-guard, fell 
into an ambuscade at Roncesvalles, in 
the Pyrenees, and perished with all the 
flower of French chivalry (778). He 
is the hero of Theroulde’s Chanson de 
Roland ; the romance called Chronig de 
Turpin ; Boiardo’s epic Orlando in Love 
(Italian) ; and Ariosto’s epic of Orlando 
Mad (Italian). - 

Roland, atter slaying Angoulaffre, the 


Saracen giant, in single combat at Fron- 
sac, asked as his reward the hand of 
Aude, daughter of Sir Gerard and Lady 
Guibourg; but they never married, as Ro- 
land fell at Roncesvalles, and Aude died 
of a broken heart. (Croguemitaine, xi.) 

A Roland for an Oliver. A blow for 
a blow, tit for tat. Roland and Oliver 
were two of the paladins of Charlemagne, 
whose exploits are so similar that it is 
very difficult to keep them distinct. 
What Roland did Oliver did, and what 
Oliver did Roland did. At length the 
two met in single combat, and fought 
for five consecutive days on an island in 
the Rhine, but neither gained the least 
advantage. (See in La Légende des 
Srecles, by Victor Hugo, the poem en- 
titled Le Mariage de Roland.) 

The etymologies connecting the pro- 
verb with Charles II., General Monk, 
and Oliver Cromwell, are wholly un- 
worthy of credit, for even Shakespeare 
alludes to it: ‘‘ England all Olivers and 
Rolands bred”? (1 Henry VI., i. 2); 
and Edward Hall, the historian, almost 
a century before Shakespeare, writes— 

“But to have a Roland to res’st an Oliver, he 
sent solempne ambassadors to the Kyng of Eng- 
lande, offeryng hym hys doughter in mariage.’— 
Henry VI. 

(See OLIVER, BRECHE.) 

** In French, ἃ bon chat bon rat. 

To die like Roland. To die of starva- 
tion or thirst. It is said that Roland, the 
great paladin, set upon in the defile of 
Roncesvalles, escaped the general slaugh- 
ter, and died of hunger and thirst in 
seeking to cross the Pyrenees. 

“Post ingentem Hispano’rum cedem prope 
Pyrenei saltus juga... siti miserrime extinctum., 


Inde nostri intolera’hili siti et immi/ti volentes 
significa’re se torqué, face’re aiunt, Rolandi morte 
se perire.”’—John de la Bruiere Chaumpie: Re Ci- 
baiia, Xvi, δ. 

Faire le Roland. To swagger. 

Like the blast of Roland’s horn. When 
Roland was set upon by the Gascons at 
Roncesvalles, he sounded his horn to 
give Charlemagne notice of his danger, 
At the third blast it cracked in two, but 
so loud was the blast that birds fell dead 
and the whole Saracen army was panic- 
struck. Charlemagne heard the sound 
at St. Jean Pied de Port, and rushed to 
the rescue, but arrived too late. 


“ Oh, for one blast of that dread horn 
On Fontarabian echoes borne, 
That to King Charles did come.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Marmion, vi. 23. 


Song of Roland. Part of the Chansons 
de Geste, which treat of the achievements 
of Charlemagne and his paladins. Wil- 
liam of Normandy had it sung at the 
head of his troops when he came to in- 
vade England, 


Roland 


1068 


Roman 


Song of Roland. When Charlemagne 
had been six years in Spain, by the 
advice of Roland, his nephew, he sent 
Ganelon on an embassy to Marsillus, the 
pagan king of Saragossa. Ganelon, out 
of jealousy, betrayed to Marsillus the 
route which the Christian army designed 
to take on its way home, and the pagan 
king arrived at Roncesvalles just as 
Roland was conducting through the pass 
a rearguard of 20,000 men, | Roland 
fought till 100,000 Saracens lay slain, and 
only 50 of his own men survived, At 
this juncture another army, consisting of 
50,000 men, poured from the mountains. 
Roland now blew his enchanted horn, 
and blew so loudly that the veins of his 
neck started. Charlemagne heard the 
blast, but Ganelon persuaded him that 
it was only his nephew hunting the deer. 
Roland died of his wounds, but in dying 
threw his trusty sword Durandal into a 
poisoned stream, where it remained. 


Roland de Vaux (Si7). Baron of 
Triermain, who woke Gyneth from her 
long sleep of five hundred years and 
married her. (Sia Walter Scott : Bridal 
of Triermain.) 


Rolandseck Tower, opposite the 
Drachenfels. The legend is that when 
Roland went to the wars, a false report 
of his death was brought to his betrothed, 
who retired to a convent in the isle of 
Nonnewerth. When Roland returned 
home flushed with glory, and found that 
his lady-love had taken the veil, he built 
the castle which bears his name, and 
overlooks the nunnery, that he might at 
least see his heart-treasure, lost to him 
for ever, 


Roll. Zhe flying roll of Zechariah 
(νυ. 1-5). ‘‘ Predictions of evils to come 
on a nation are like the Flying Roll of 
Zechariah.”’ This roll (twenty cubits long 
and ten wide) was full of maledictions, 
threats, and calamities about to befall 
the Jews. The parchment being un- 
rolled fluttered in the air. 


Rolls [Chancery Lane, London]. So 
called from the records kept there in 
rolls of parchment. The house was ori- 
ginally built by Henry ITI. for converted 
Jews, and was called “" Domus Conver- 
so’'rum.’’ It was Edward III. who ap- 
propriated the place to the conservation 
of records. ‘‘Conversi’? means lay- 


monks, (Ducange, vol. ii. p. 703.) 
Glover’s Roll. A copy of the lost 
Roll of Arms, made by _ Glover, 


Somerset herald. It isa roll of the arms 
borne by Henry III., his princes of the 


blood, barons, and knights, between 1216 
and 1272. 

The Roll of Caerlaverock. An heraldic 
poem in Norman-French, reciting the 
names and arms of the knights present 
at the siege of Caerlaverock, in 1900, 


Rolling Stone. 4 rolling stone gathers 


nO MOSS. 

Greek : Λιθὸς κυλινδόμενος To φυκος ov ποιει. 
(Erasmus ; Proverbs ; Assi- 
duitas.) 

Latin ; Saxum volutum non obducitur 


musco (07 Saxum volubile, 
etc.) 

Planta que seepius transfertur 
non coalescit. (Jwhius.) 
Sepius plantata arbor fructum 

profert exiguum, 


French: Pierre qui roule n’amasse 
jamais mousse. 
La pierre souvent remuée 
n’amasse pas volontiers 
mousse. 


Pierre souvent remuée n’attire 
pas mousse, 
Italian : Pietra mossa non fa muschio. 
“ Three removes are as bad as a fire.” 
“ Τ never saw an oft-removed tree, 

Nor yet an oft-removed family. 

That throve so well as those that settled he.” 

Rollrich or Rowldrich Stones, 
near Chipping Norton (Oxfordshire). A 
number of large stones in a circle, which 
tradition says are men turned to stone. 
The highest of them is called the King, 
who ‘‘ would have been king of England 
if he could have caught sight of Long 
Compton,”’ which may be seen a few steps 
farther on; five other large stones are 
called the knights, and the rest common 
soldiers. 

Roly-poly (pron. rowl-y powl-y). A 
crust with jam rolled up into a pudding ; 
a little fat child. Roly is a thing rolled 
with the diminutive added. In some 
parts of Scotland the game of nine-pins 
is called rowly-pouly. 

Roma'‘ic. Modern or Romanised 
Greek. 

Roman {7Z/ie). 

Jean Dumont, the French painter, /e 
Romain (1700-1781). 

Stephen Picart, the French engraver, 
le Romain (1631-1721). 

Giulio Pippi, Giulio Romano (1492- 
1546). 

Adrian van Roomen, the mathemati- 
cian, Adria’nus Roma'nus (1561-1615). 

Most learned of the Romans. Marcus 
Terentius Varro (B.c. 116-28). 

Last of the Romans, Rienzi (1310- 
1364). 


Roman Birds 


1069 


Rome 


Last of the Romans. Charles James 
Fox (1749-1806.) (See SIDNEY.) 

Ultimus Romanorum. Horace Wal- 
pole (1717-1797). (See Last.) 

Roman Birds. Eagles; so called 
because the ensign of the Roman legion 
was an eagle. 


“Roma/nas aves propria legio’num nu/inina.”— 
Tucitus. 


Roman Remains in England. The 
most remarkable are the following :— 

The pharos, church, and trenches in 
Dover. 

Chilham Castle, Richborough, and 
Reculver forts, 


Silchester (Berkshire), Dorchester, 
Nisconium (Salop), and Caerleon, am- 
phitheatres. 


Hadrian’s wall, from Tyne to Boul- 
ness. 

The wall, baths, and Newport Gate of 
Lincoln. 

Verulam, near St. Albans, 

York (Eboracum), where Sevérus and 
Constantius Chlorus died, and Constan- 
tine the Great was born. 

Bath, ete. 


Roman de Chevalier de Lyon, 
by Maitre Wace, Canon of Caen in Nor- 
mandy, and author of Le Brut. The 
romance referred to is the same as that 
entitled Ywwain and Gawain. 


Roman dela Rose. (See Intap, The 
French.) 


Roman des Romans. A French 
version of Aim’adis of Gaul, greatly ex- 
tended, by Gilbert Saunier and Sieur de 
Duverdier, 


Romance. A tale in prose or verse 
the incidents of which are hung upon 
what is marvellous and fictitious. 

These tales were originally written in 
the Romance language (q.v.), and the 
expression, ‘‘In Romance we read,’’came 
in time to refer to the tale, and not to the 
language in which it was told. 

Romance of chivalry may be divided 
into three groups :—(1) that relating to 
Arthur and his Round Table; (2) that 
relating to Charlemagne and his pala- 
dins; (3) that relating to Am’adis and 
Pal'merin. In the first are but few 
fairies ; in the second they are shown in 
all their glory ; in the third (which be- 
longs to Spanish literature) we have no 
fairies, but the enchantress Urganda la 
Desconeci'da. 

~ It is misleading to call such poetical 
tales as the Bride of Abydos, Lalla Rookh, 
and the Chansons of the Mouveéres, etc., 
Ltomances, 


Romanes’‘que (3 syl.). 
In painting. Fanciful and romantic 
rather than true to nature. 


In architecture. Byzantine, Lombard, 
Saxon, and, indeed, all the debased 
Roman styles, between the time of Con- 
stantine (350) and Charlemagne (800). 

In literature, The dialect of Langue- 
doc, which smacks of the Romance. 


Roman ic or Romance Languages, 
Those modern languages which are the 
immediate offspring of Latin, as the 
Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, and French. 
Early French is emphatically so called ; 
hence Bouillett says, ‘‘ Le roman était 
universellement parle en Gaule au dixiéme 
siecle,”’ 

“ Frankis speechis called Romance, 
So say clerks and men of France.” 
Robert Le Brunn. 

Romanism. Popery, or what re- 
sembles Popery, the religion of modern 
Rome. (A word of implied reproach.) 


Roman'tic School. The name as- 
sumed, at the beginning of the nineteenth 
century, by a number of young poets 
and critics in Germany, who wished to 
limit poetry and art to romance. Some 
twenty-five years later Victor Hugo, 
Lamartine, and Dumas introduced it 
into France. 


Romanus (‘/.), a Norman bishop of 
the seventh century, is depicted fighting 
with a dragon, in allusion to the tale 
that he miraculously conquered a dragon 
which infested Normandy, 


Romany. Gipsy 
speech of the Roma or Zinca'li. 
has nothing to do with Rome. 

“A learned Sclavonian ... said of Rommany, 
that _he found it interesting to beable to study a 


Hindu dialect in the heart of Europe.’—Leland : 
English Gipsies, chap. viii. p. 109. 


language, the 
This 


Rome. Virgil says of Romulus, 
“© Mavortia condet menia, Romanosque 
suo de nomine dicet”’ (Aineid, i. 276). 
The words of the Sibyl, quoted by Ser- 
vius, are ““Ῥωμαιοι Popov matdes.”? Romu- 
lus is a diminutive or word of endear- 
ment for Romus. 

The etymology of Rome from Roma 
(mother of Romulus and Remus), or 
from Romulus, the legendary founder of 
the city, or from 7wma (a dug), in allu- 
sion to the fable of a wolf suckling the 
outcast children, is not tenable. Nie- 
buhr derives it from the Greek word 
rhoma (strength), a suggestion confirmed 
by its other name Valentia, from valens 
(strong). Michelet prefers Rwimo, the 
ancient name of the river Tiber. 


Rome 


1070 


Rome. Foundersof Rome. (1)Romu- 
lus, the legendary founder, B.c, 752; (2) 
Camillus was termed the Second Romulus, 
for saving Rome from the Gauls, B.c. 
365; (3) Caius Ma’rius was called the 
Third Romulus, for saving Rome from 
the Teuto’nes and Cimbri, B.c. 101. 

From Rome to May. A bantering ex- 
pression, equivalent to the following :— 
‘From April to the foot of Westminster 
Bridge;”’ ‘Inter pascha Rennesque feror”’ 
(Reinardus, ii. 690); “ Inter Cluniacum 
et Sancti festa Johannis obit”? (Reinardus, 
iv. 972) ; ““ Cela s’est passé entre Maubeuge 
et la Pentecéte.”’ 

Tis ill sitting at Rome and striving 
with the Pope. Never tread on a man’s 
corns. ‘‘Never wear a brown hat in 
Friesland ”’ (7.v.). 

“Mr. Harrison the steward, and Gudyell the 
butler, are no very fond o’ us, and it’sill sitting at 
Rome and striving with the pope, sae I thought it 
best to flit before ill came.”"—sSir W. Scott : Old 
Mortality, chap. viii. 

Oh, that all Rome had but one head, 
that I might strike it off at a blow! 
Caligula, the Roman emperor, is said to 
have uttered this amiable sentiment. 

When you go to Rome, do as Rome does— 
i.e. conform to the manners and customs 
of those amongst whom you live, and 
don’t wear a brown hatin Friesland. St. 
Monica and her son St. Augustine, 
said to St. Ambrose : At Rome they fast 
on Saturday, but not so at Milan ; which 
practice ought to be observed ? To which 
St. Ambrose replied, ‘“‘ When I am at 
Milan, I do as they do at Milan; but 
when I go to Rome, I do as Rome does.”’ 
(Epistle xxxvi.) Compare 2 Kings συ, 

᾽ 


Rome of the West. Aachen, or Aix 
la Chapelle, the favourite city of Charle- 
magne, where, when he died, he was 
seated, embalmed, on a throne, with the 
Bible on his lap, his sword (La Joyeuse) 
by his side, the imperial crown on his 
head, and his sceptre and shield at his 
feet. So well had the Egyptians em- 
balmed him, that he seemed only to be 
asleep. 


Rome was not Built in a Day. 
Achievements of great pith and moment 
are not accomplished without patient 
perseverance and a considerable interval 
of time. The French say, ‘‘ Grand bien ne 
vient pas en peu a’ heures,’ but the Eng- 
lish proverb is to be found in the French 
also: ‘‘ Rome na pas été faite en un 
jour.”? (1615.) 


Rome was not built in a day, like Anchiale, of 
Cilicia, where Sardanapalus was buried. Itissaid 
that Anchiale was actuallv built ina day 


Roncesvalles 


Rome’s best Wealth is Patriotism. 
So said Mettius Curtius, when he jumped 
into the chasm which the soothsayers 
gave out would never close till Rome 
threw therein ‘‘ its best wealth.”’ 


Romeo (4). <A devoted lover; a 
lady’s man; from Romeo in Shake- 
speare’s tragedy. (See Romeo and Juliet.) 
, * James in an evil hour went forth to woo 

Young Juliet Hart, and was her Romeo.” 
Crabbe: Borough. 

Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare), 
The story is taken from a poetical version 
by Arthur Brooke of Boisteau’s novel, 
called Rhomeo and Julietta. Boisteau 
borrowed the main incidents from a story 
by Luigi da Porto, of Vicenza (1535), 
entitled La Giulietta. In many respects 
it resembles the Ephesi’aca (in ten books) 
of Ephe’sius Xenophon, whose novel 
recounts the loves of Habroc’omas and 
Anthia. 


Rom/‘ulus. 1706 need no Romulus to 
account for Rome. We require no hypo- 
thetical person to account for a plain 
fact, 

δ Romulus and Remus were suckled 
by a wolf; Atalanta by a she-bear. 


Ron or Rone. The name of Prince 
Arthur’s spear, made of ebony. 
“ His spere he nom [took] an honde, tha Ron was 

thaten [called].” 
Layamon: Brut (twelfth century). 

Renald. Lord Ronald gave Lady 
Clare a lily-white doe as a love-token, 
and the cousins were to be married on 
the following day. Lady Clare opened 
her heart to Alice the nurse, and was 
then informed that she was not Lady 
Clare at all, but the nurse’s child, and 
that Lord Ronald was rightful heir to 
the estate. ‘‘Lady’’ Clare dressed her- 
self as a. peasant, and went to reyeal the 
mystery to her lord. Ronald replied, 
“ΓΕ you are not the heiress born, we 
will be married to-morrow, and you 
shall still be Lady Clare.”’? (Zennyson.) 


Roncesvalies (4 syl.). A defile in 
the Pyrenees, famous for the disaster 
which here befell the rear of Charle- 
magne’s army, on the return march from 
Saragossa. Ganelon betrayed Roland, 
out of jealousy, to Marsillus, King of the 
Saracens, and an ambuscade attacking 
the Franks, killed every man of them. 
Amongst the slain were Roland, Oliver, 
Turpin, and Mitaine, the emperor’s god- 
child. Anaccount of this attack is given 
in the epilogue of Croquemitaine ; but 
the historical narrative is derived from 
Eginhard, 


Rondo 


1071 


Rope-dancers 


Rondo. Luther of the rondo. Jean 
Baptiste Davaux; but Gluck was the 
first to introduce the musical rondo into 
France, in the opera of Orpheus. 


Rone (lsyl.). (See Ron.) 


Ron’yon or Ronion. A term of 
contempt toa woman. It is the French 
rogneux (scabby, mangy). 

“You hag, you baggage, you_polecat, you 
ronyon ! out, out !"—Shkakespeare : Merry Wives of 
Windsor, iv. 2. 

**Aroint thee, witch!’ the rump-fed ronyon 
cries.” Shakespeare: Macbeth, i.3. 

Reed Lane (London). So called 
from a rood or ‘‘Jesus on the Cross ”’ 
placed there, and in Roman Catholic 
times held in great veneration. 


Rood-loft (Zhe). The screen between 
the nave and chancel, where the rood 
or crucifix was elevated. In some cases, 
on each side of the crucifix were either 
some of the evangelists or apostles, 
and especially the saint to whom the 
church was dedicated. 

εἰ 4nd then to zee the rood-loft, 
Zo bravely zet with zaints.” 
Percy: Ballad of Pluin Truth, ii. 292. 

Roodselken. Vervain, or ‘ the herb 
of the cross.’’ 

“ Hallowed be thou, veryain, as thou growest in 
the ground, : 

For in the Mount of Calvary thou wast found. 

Tbou healedst Christ our Saviour, and staunch- 

edst His bleeding wound. 

In the name of Father, Son and Holy Ghost, I 

take thee from the ground.” 
Folkard: Plant Lore, p. 47. 

Rook (4). A cheat. ‘To rook,” 
to cheat; ‘‘to rook a pigeon,”’ to fleece 
a greenhorn, Sometimes it simply 
means, to win from another at a game 
of chauce or skill. (See RooKERY.) 

*“*My Lord Marquis,’ said the king, ‘you rooked 
me at piquet last night, for which disloyal deed 
thou shalt now atone, by givinga couple of pieces 
to this honest youth, and five to the 51}1. δὲν 
Walter Scott: Peveril of the Peak, clap. xxx. 

Rook’s Hill (Lavant, Chichester), 
celebrated for the local tradition that 
the golden calf of Aaron is buried there. 


Rook’ery (3 syl.). Any low neigh- 
bourhood frequented by thieves and 
vagabonds. A person fleeced or liable 
to be fleeced is a pigeon, but those who 
prey upon these “gulls”? are called 
rooks, 

“The demolition of rookeries has not proved an 


efficient remedy for overcrowding.”’—A. Egmont 
Hake: Free Trade in Capital, chap. xv. ao 


Rooky Wood (712). Not the wood 
where rooks do congregate, but the 


misty or dark wood. The verb reck (to 
emit vapour) had the preterite 7010, 


rook, or roak ; hence Hamilton, in his 
Wallace, speaks of the ‘‘ rooky mist.” 
“ Light thickens, and the crow | 
Makes wing to the roaky wood.” sw 
Shakespeare: Macbeth, iii. 2. 

Room. Vou room is better than your 
company, occurs in Green’s Quip for ait 
Upstart Courtier. 


Roost. A strong current or furious 
tide betwixt island groups. 

“This lofty promontory is constantly exposed 
to the current of a strong and furious tide, which, 
setting in betwixt the Orkney and Zetland is- 
lands, and running with force only inferior to 
that of the Pentland Frith,... is called the 
Roost of Sumburgh [from the headland].”—sSi 
Walter Scott: The Pirate, chap. 1. 

Roost. (one to roost. Gone to bed. 
(Anglo-Saxon, vost.) 

“The chough and crow to roost are gone.” 
Glee (words by Joanna Buillie, music by Bishop). 

Rope. The Brahmin teaches that 
“whoever hangs himself will wander 
eternally with a rope 1ound his neck.” 
(Asiatic Researches.) 

Rope. 170 fight with a rope round 
one’s neck. To fight with a certainty of 
being hanged unless you conquer. 

“You must send ina large force; .. . for,as he 
fights with a rope round his neck, he will struggle 
to the last.”"—Kingston: The Three Admirals, Vii. 

To give one rope enough. 'To permit a 
person to continue in wrong-doing, till 
he reaps the consequences. 


Rope. Jow carry a rope in your 
pocket (French). Said of a person very 
lucky at cards, from the superstition 
that a bit of rope with which a man has 
been hanged, carried in the pocket, se- 
cures luck at cards. 

“You have no occupation?’ said the Bench, 
inquiringly, toa vagabond at the bar. * Beg your 
worship’s pardon, was the rejoinder: ‘IT deal in 
bits of halter for the use of gentlemen as Plays.” 
—The Vimes (French correspondent). 

Rope-dancer (716). Yvo de Grent- 
mesnil, the crusader, one of the leaders 
of Robert, Duke of Normandy’s party 
against Henry I. of England. 

“Tvo was one of those who escaped from 
Antioch when it was besieged. He was let down 
by a rope over the wall, and hence called * Tue 
Rope-dancer.’ "—Gentleman's Magazine. 

Rope-darcers. Jacob Hall, in the 
reign of Charles II., greatly admired by 
the Duchess of Cleveland. 

Richer, the celebrated rope-dancer at 
Sadler’s Wells (1658). 

Signora Violante, in the reign of 
Queen Anne. 

The Turk who astonished everyone 
who saw him, in the reign of George 11. 

Froissart (vol. iv. chap. xxxviil. fol. 47) 
tells us of ‘‘a mayster from Geane,”’ 


ἢ Rope-walk 10 


who either slid or walked down a rope 
suspended to the highest house on St. 
Michael’s bridge and the tower of Our 
Lady’s church, when Isabel of Bavaria 
made her public entry into Paris. Some 
say he descended dancing, p'aced a 
crown on Isabel’s head, and then re- 
ascended. 

A similar performance was exhibited 
in London, February 19th, 1546, before 
Edward VI. The rope was slung from 
the battlements of St. Paul’s steeple. 
The performer of this feat was a man 
from Aragon. 

The same trick was repeated when 
Felipe of Spain came to marry Queen 
Mary. (See Holinshed : Chronicle, iii. 
p. 1121.) 


Rope-walk [darristers’ slang]. Old 
Bailey practice. Thus, ‘‘ Gone into the 
rope-walk ἢ means, he has taken up 
practice in the Old Bailey. (See Ropgs.) 

The ways of London low life are called “ ropes,” 


and to know the ropes means to be au fait with the 
minutivw of all sorts of dodges. (See Kopks.) 


Ropes. Fought back to the ropes. 
Fought to the bitter end. A pugilistic 
phrase. 

“Ttisa battle that must be fought game, and 
right back to the ropes.“—Boldrewood : Robbery 
Under Arms, chap. XxXlil. 

Ropes. ‘Tricks, artifices, A term in 
horse-racing. To rope a horse is to pull 
it in or restrain its speed, to prevent its 
Winning a race. When a boxer or any 
other athlete loses for the purpose, he is 
accused of roping. “ΤῸ know the 
ropes ’’ is to be up to all the dodges of 
the sporting world. Of course, the ropes 
mean the reins. 

“T am no longer the verdant country squire, 
the natural prey of swindlers, blacklegs, and 
sharks. No, sir, I ‘know the ropes, and these 
gentry would find me but sorry sport.”—Truth : 
Queer Story, September 3rd, 1885. 

Ropes. Sie is on her high ropes. In 
a distant and haughty temper. The 
allusion is to a rope-dancer, who looks 
down on the spectators. The French 
say, tre monté sur ses grands chevaux 
(to be on your high horse). 


Roper. Margaret Roper was buried 
with the head of her father, Sir Thomas 
More, in her arms, 

“ Her, who clasped in her last trance 
Her murdered father’s head.” Tennyson. 

Mistress Roper. A cant name given 
to the marines by British sailors. The 
wit, of course, lies in the awkward way 
that marines hardle the ship’s ropes. 

To marry Mistress Roper is to enlist in 
the marines. 


᾽ 


2 Rosalia 


Roque (1 syl.), A blunt, feeling old 
man in the service of Donna Floranthe. 
(George Colman: The Mountaineers.) 

Saint Roque. Patron saint of those 
who suffer from plague or pestilence ; 
this is because ‘‘ he worked miracles on 
the plague-stricken, while he was himself 
smitten with the same judgment.”’ 


Roque Guinart. A famous robber, 
whose true name was Pédro Rocha 
Guinarda, leader of los Nicerros, which, 
with the los Cadelles, levied heavy con- 
tributions on all the mountain districts 
of Catalo’nia in the seventeenth century. 
He was a Spanish Rob Roy, and was 
executed in 1616, (Fellicer.) 


Roquelaure. A cloak; so called from 
the Duke de Roquelaure. (George II.) 

“*Your honour’s roquelaure,’ replied the cor- 
poral, ‘has not once been had on since the night 
before your honow’ received your wound,’ ”’— 
Sterne: Tristram Shandy ; Story of Le Fevre. 

Rory O’More. Slang for ὦ door. 
(Explained under the word Cutvy.) 


Ros-crana. Daughter of Cormac, 
King of Moi-lena, wife of Fingal. 
(Ossian : Tamora, iv.) 


Ro’sa (Sa/va'tor). An Italian painter, 
noted for his scenes of savage nature, 
gloomy grandeur, and awe-creating 
magnificence. (1615-1673.) 

“Whate’er Lorrain light touched with softened 
or sivase Rosa dashed, or learnéd Poussin 
pote Thomson : Castle of Indolence, canto i. 

Rosabelle. The favourite palfrey of 
Mary Queen of Scots. (See Horse.) 

“T could almost swear I am at this moment 
mounted on my own favourite Rosabelle, who was 
never matched in Scotland for swiftness, for ease 
of motion, and for sureness of foot."—Sir W. 
Scott: The Abbot, chap. Xxxvi. 

Rosa'lia or St. Rosalie. A native of 
Palermo, who was carried by angels to 
an inaccessible mountain, where she lived 
for many years in the cleft of a rock, 
a part of which she wore away with her 
knees in her devotions. If anyone 
doubts it, let him know that a rock with 
a hole in it may still be seen, and folks 
less sceptical have built a chape! there, 
with a marble statue, to commemorate 
the event. 

“That grot where olives nod, 
Where, darling of each heart and eye, 
From all the youths of Sicily, 
St. Rosalie retired to God.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Marmion, i. 23. 

St. Rosalia, in Christian art, is depicted 
in a cave with a cross and skull, or else 
in the act of receiving a rosary or chap- 
let of roses from the Virgin. 


Rosalind 


--- 


Ros/alind. Daughter of the banished 
duke, but brought up with Celia in the 
court of Frederick, the duke’s brother, 
and usurper of his dominions. When 
Rosalind fell in love with Orlando, Duke 
Frederick said she must leave his house 
and join her father in the forest of Arden. 
Celia resolved to go with her, and the 
two ladies started on their journey. For 
better security, they changed their names 
and assumed disguises; Celia dressed 
herself as a peasant-girl, and took for 
the nonce the name of Aliena: Rosalind 
dressed as her brother, and called herself 
Gan'ymede. They took up their quarters 
in a peasant’s cottage, where they soon 
encountered Orlando, and (to make a 
long tale shert) Celia fell in love with 
Oliver, the brother of Orlando, and 
Rosalind obtained her father’s consent 
to marry Orlando. (Shakespeare: As 
You Like It.) 

Ros'alind, in the Shepherds’ Calendar, 
is the maiden vainly beloved by Colin 
Clout, as her choice was fixed on a shep- 
herd named Menalcas. (See below.) 


Ros‘alinde (3 syl.). The anagram 
of ‘‘Rose Danil”’ or ‘‘ Rose Daniel,’”’ with 
whom Spenser was in love, but the young 
lady married John Florio, lexicographer, 
In the Shepherds’ Calendar Rose is called 
“* Rosalinde,’’ and Spenser calls himself 
** Colin Clout.’? Shakespeare introduces 
John Florio in Love's Labour's Lost, 
under the imperfect anagram Holofernes 
( Hnes Floveo). 


Ros’aline (3 syl.). A negress of 
sparkling wit and great beauty, attend- 
ing on the Princess of France, and loved 
by Lord Biron’, a nobleman in the suite 
of Ferdinand, King of Navarre. (Shake- 
speare: Love's Labour’s Lost.) 


Ros'amond (fair). Higden, monk 
of Chester, says: ‘‘She was the fayre 
daughter of Walter, Lord Clifford, con- 
cubine of Henry II., and poisoned by 
Queen Elianor, a.D. 1177. Henry made 
for her a house of wonderfull working, 
so that no man or woman might come to 
her, This house was named Labyrinthus, 
and was wrought like unto a knot in a 
garden called a maze. But the queen 
came to her by a clue of thredde, and so 
dealt with her that she lived not long 
after. She was buried at Godstow, in 
an house of nunnes, with these verses 
upon her tombe :— 


“Hic jacet in tumba Rosa mundi, non Rosa 
a munda ; 


Non redolet, sed olet, que redole’ré solet.” 
Here Rose the graced, not Rose the chaste, re- 
poses ; 
The smell that rises is no smell of roses. E. C. Β. 


08 


1078 


Roscius 


* Rosamond Clifford is introduced by 
Sir Walter Scott in two of his novels— 
The Talisman and Woodstock. 


“ Jane Clifford was her name, as books aver ; 
Fair Rosamond was but her nom de guerre.” 
Dryden: Epilogue to Henry II, 
Rosa’na. Daughter of the Queen of 
Armenia. She aided the three sons of 
St. George to quench the seven lamps of 
the Knight of the Black Castle. (The 
Seven Champions of Christendom, ii, 8-9.) 
(See LAMes.) 


Ro’sary [the rose article]. A name 
given to the bead-roll employed by 
Roman Catholics for keeping count of 
their repetitions of certain prayers. It 
consists of three parts, each of which 
contains five mysteries connected with 
Christ or His virgin mother. The entire 
roll consists of 150 Ave Marias, 15 Pater 
Nosters, and 15 doxologies. The word 
is said by some to be derived from the 
chaplet of beads, perfumed with roses, 
given by the Virgin to St. Dominic. 
(This cannot be correct, as it was in use 
A.D. 1100.) Others say the first chaplet 
of the kind was made of rosewood ; 
others, again, maintain that it takes its 
name from the ‘‘ Mystical Rose,’’ one of 
the titles of the Virgin. The setis some- 
times called ‘fifteens,” from its con- 
taining 15 ‘‘doxologies,’ 15 ‘Our 
Fathers,’’ and 10 times 15 or 150 ‘‘ Hail 
Marys.”’ (Latin, rosdriwm.) 

*. The “ Devotion of the Rosary ” takes different 
forms :—(1) the Greater Rosary, or recitation of the 
whole fifteen mysteries ; (2) the Lesser Rosary, or 
recitation of one of the mysteries; and (3) the 
Living Rosary, or the recitation of the fifteen 
mysteries by fifteen different peisons in combina- 
ἘΠΕῚ to the “ rosewood,” this etymology is 
extremely doubtful. The heads are now mad® of 
berries, wood, stone, ivory, metal, etc., sometimes 
of considerable value. 

Ros‘ciad. <A satire published by 
Charles Churchill in 1761; it canvasses 
the faults and merits of the metropolitan 
actors. 


Ros’cius. A first-rate actor; so 
called from the Roman Roscius, un- 
rivalled for his grace of action, melody 
of voice, conception of character, and 
delivery. He was paid thirty pounds a 
day for acting ; Pliny says four thousand 
a year, and Cicero says five thousand. 

“ What scene of death hath Roscius now to act ?” 
Shakespeare: 3 Henry VI., Vv. 6. 

Another Roscius. So Camden terms 
Richard Burbage (1566-1619). 

The British Roscius, Thomas Better- 
ton, of whom Cibber says, ‘‘ He alone 
was born to speak what only Shakespeare 
knew to write.”’ (1655-1710.) 

David Garrick (1716-1779). 


Rose 


1074 


Rose 


The Roscius of France. Michel Boyron, 
generally called Baron. (1653-1729.) 

The Young Roscius. William Henry 
West Betty, who in fifty-six nights real- 
ised £34,000. (Died 1874, aged 84.) 


Rose. Sir John Mandeville says— 
A Jewish maid of Bethlehem (whom 
Southey names Zillah) was beloved by 
one Ham’uel. a brutish sot. Zillah re- 
jected his suit, and Hamuel vowed ven- 
geance. He gave out that Zillah was a 
demoniac, and she was condemned to be 
burnt; but God averted the flames, the 
stake budded, and the maid stood un- 
harmed under a rose-tree full of white 
and red roses, then ‘first seen on earth 
since Paradise was lost.’’ 

Rose. An emblem of England. It is 
also the cognisance of the Richmonds, 
hence the rose in the mouth of one of 
the foxes which support the shield in the 
public-house called the Holland Arms, 
Kensington. The daughter of the Duke 
of Richmond (Lady Caroline Lennox) ran 
away with Mr. Henry Fox, afterwards 
Baron Holland of Foxley. So the Fox 
stole the Rose and ran off with it. 


Rose. In the language of flowers, 
different roses have a different significa- 
tion. For example :— 

The Burgundy Rose signifies simplicity 
and beauty. 

The China Rose, grace or beauty ever 
fresh. 

The Daily Rose, a smile. 

The Dog Rose, pleasure mixed with 


ain. 
A Faded Rose, beauty is fleeting. 
The Japan Rose, beauty your sole 
attraction. 
The Moss Rose, voluptuous love. 
The Musk Rose, capricious beauty. 
The Provence Rose, my heart is in 
flames. 
i The White Rose Bud, too young to 
ove. 
The White Rose full of buds, secrecy, 
A wreath of Roses, beauty and virtue 
rewarded. 
The Yellow Rose, infidelity. 


Rose. The red rose, says Sir John 
Mandeville, sprang from theextinguished 
brands heaped around a virgin martyr at 
Bethlehem, named Zillah. (See Ross.) 

The Red Rose [of Lancaster]. (See 
Rosss, The Wars of the Roses.) 

The Red Rose (as a public-house sign), 
Camden says the red rose was the ac- 
cepted badge of Edmund Plantagenet, 
who was the second son of Henry IIL., 
and of the first Duke of Lancaster, sur- 
named Crouchbacke, It was also the 


cognisance of John of Gaunt, second 
Duke of Lancaster, in virtue of his wife, 
who was godchild of Edmund Crouch- 
backe, and his sole heir. (See above.) 

The white rose, says Sir John Mande- 
ville, sprang from the unkindled brands 
heaped around the virgin martyr at 
Bethlehem. (Sze RosE.) 

The White Rose (as a public-house 
sign) was xot first adopted by the York- 
ists during the contest for the crown, as 
Shakespeare says. It was an hereditary 
cognisance of the House of York, and 
had been borne by them ever since the 
title was first created. It was adopted 
by the Jacobins as an emblem of the 
Pretender, because his adherents were 
obliged to abet him sd rosa (in secret). 

No rose without a thorn, ‘Thereisa 
crook in every lot” (Boston) ; ‘‘ No joy 
without alloy;’’ ‘‘There is a poison- 
drop in man’s purest cup;”’ ‘‘ Every 
path hath its puddle ᾽᾽ (Scotch). 

French ; “1 n’y a point de roses sans 
épines,”’ or ‘‘ Point de rose sans épine;”’ 
“Tl nest si gentil mois d’ Avril qui n’ait 
son chapeau de grésil.”’ 

Italian : ‘‘ Non ν᾽ ὃ rosa senza spina ;”’ 
“*Ogni medaglia ha il suo reverso.”’ 

Latin: ‘* Nihil est ab omni parte 
beatum”’ (Horace: 2 Odes, x. 27); 
‘* Curte nescio quid semper abest rei.’’ 

Under the rose (sub rosa). In strict 
confidence. Cupid gave Harpoc’rates (the 
god of silence) a rose, to bribe him not 
to betray the amours of Venus. Hence 
the flower became the emblem of silence, 
It was for this reason sculptured on the 
ceilings of banquet-rooms, to remind the 
guests that what was spoken sab vino 
was not to be uttered sub divo. In 1526 
it was placed over confessionals. The 
banquet-room ceiling at Haddon Hall is 
decorated with roses, (French, parler 
sous la rose.) 


Rose (in Christian art). The attribute 
of St. Dorothe’a, who carries roses in a 
basket ; of St. Casilda, St. Elizabeth of 
Portugal, and St. Rose of Viterbo, who 
carry roses either in their hands or caps. 
St. Rosa‘lia, St. An’gelus, St. Rose of 
Lima, St. Ascylus, St. Victoria, etc., 
wear crowns of roses. 


“Rose, elle a vecu ce que vivent les roses 
L’espace dun matin.” — 
Malherbe: A Mme. du mae sur la Morte 
6. 


de sa Fi 
Like other roses, thy sweet rose survived 
While shone the morning sun, nea , 


and died, 
Rose for Rose-noble. A gold coin 


worth 6s. 8d. struck in 1344, under 
Edward III.; so called because it had 


Rose Sunday 


1075 


Rosetta Stone 


a rose, the badge of the Lancastrians 
and Yorkists. 
* De la pistole, 
De la guinée, et de I‘obole, 
Du louis d’or, du ducaton, 
De la rose, et du patagon.” 
Jacques Moreau, in Virgils Travesti. 

Rose Sunday. The fourth Sunday in 
Lent, when the Pope blesses the ‘“‘ Golden 
Rose.’’ He dips it in balsam, sprinkles 
it with holy water, and incenses_ it. 
Strange as it may seem, Pope Julius II., 
in 1510, and Leo X. both sent the sacred 
rose to Henry VIII. In 1856 Isabella 11. 
of Spain received the ‘‘ Rose;’’ and 
both Charlotte, Empress of Mexico, and 
Eugénie, Empress of France, were 
honoured by it likewise. 

The Rose Alley ambuscade. The attack 
on Dryden by hired ruffians in the 
employ of Rochester and the Duchess 
of Portsmouth, December 18th, 1679. 
This scandalous outrage was in revenge 
of a satire by Mulgrave, erroneously 
attributed to Dryden. 

Attacks of this kind were not uncom- 
mon in ‘‘ the age of chivalry ;’’ witness 
the case of Sir John Coventry, who was 
waylaid and had his nose slit by some 
young men of rank fora reflection on the 
kine’s theatrical amours. This attack 
gave rise to the ‘‘ Coventry Act ” against 
maiming and wounding. Of a similar 
nature was the cowardly assassination 
of Mr. Mountford, in Norfolk Street, 
Strand, by Lord Mohun and Captain 
Hill, for the hypothetical offence of his 
admiration for Mrs. Bracegirdle. 

The Rose coffce-house, formerly called 
“The Red Cow,’’ and subsequently 
‘‘Will’s,’’ at the western corner of Bow 
Street, where John Dryden presided over 
the literature of the town. ‘‘ Here,”’ 
says Malcolm, ‘‘ appeal was made to him 
upon every literary dispute.”? (Spence : 
Anecdotes, p. 263.) 

This coffee-house is referred to as 
“‘ Russell Street Coffee House,’ and 
ΤῊ Wits’ Coffee-house.”’ 

“ Will's continued to be the resort of the wits at 
least till 1710. Probably Addison established his 
servant [Button] in a new house about 1712.°— 
Spence: Anecdotes, p. 263. 

This Button had been a servant of 
the Countess of Warwick, whom Addison 
married ; and Button’s became the head- 
quarters of the Whig literati, as Will’s 
had been of the Tory. 


Rose of Jericho. Also called Rosa 
Marie or Rose of the Virgin. 

Rose of Raby (1716). Cicely, the 
twelfth and youngest daughter of Ralph 


Neville, Earl of Westmoreland, (1415- 
1495.) 


Roses. Zhe Wars of the Roses. A 
civil contest that lasted thirty years, in 
which eighty princes of the blood, a 
larger portion of the English nobility, 
and some 100,000 common soldiers were 
slain. It was a contest between the 
Lancastrians and Yorkists, whose sup- 
porters wore in their caps as badges a 
red or white rose, the Red rose (gules) 
being the cognisance of the House of 
Lancaster, and the White rose (argent) 
being the badge of the House of York. 
(1455-1485.) 


Ro’semary is os-mari’nus (sea- 
dew), and is said to be ‘‘ useful in 
love-making.’”? The reason is this: 
Both Venus, the love-goddess, and 
Rosemary or sea-dew, were offspring 
of the sea; and as Love is Beauty’s 
son, Rosemary is his nearest relative. 

“ The sea his mother Venus came on ; 

And hence some reverend men approve 
Of rosemary in making love.” = 
Butler : Hudibras, pt. ii. ¢. 1. 

Rosemary, an emblem of remembrance. 
Thus Ophelia says, ‘‘There’s rosemary, 
that’s for remembrance.”’ According to 
ancient tradition, this herb strengthens 
the memory. As Hungary water, it was 
once very extensively taken to quiet the 
nerves, It was much used in weddings, 
and to wear rosemary in ancient times 
was as significant of a wedding as to 
wear a white favour. When the Nurse 
in Romeo and Juliet asks, ““ Doth not 
rosemary and Romeo begin both with 
a [i.e. one] letter?” she refers to these 
emblematical characteristics of the herb. 
In the language of flowers it means 
« Fidelity in love.”’ 

Rosemary Lane (London), now 
called Royal Mint Street. 


Rosewood. So called because when 
cut it yields a perfume like that of roses. 


Ro'sencrantz and Guild’enstern. 
Time-serving courtiers, willing to betray 
anyone, and do any ‘‘genteel”’ dirty 
work to please a king. (Shakespeare: 
Hamlet.) 

Roset'ta (Africa). The orchards of 
Rosetta are filled with turtle-doves. 

*“ Now hangs listening to the doves 
In warm Rosetta.” 
T. Moore: Paradise and the Peri. 

Rosetta Stone (716). A stone found 
in 1799 by M. Boussard, a French officer 
of engineers, in an excavation made at 
Fort St. Julien, near Rosetta. It has an 
inscription in three different languages 
—the hieroglyphic, the demotic, and the 
Greek. It was erected B.c. 195, in 
honour of Ptolemy Epiph’anés, because 


Rosicrucians 


he remitted the dues of the sacerdotal 
body. The great value of this stone is 
that it furnished the key whereby the 
Egyptian hieroglyphics have been de- 
ciphered. 

Rosicru’cians. Not rosa crur, rose 
cross, but 205 crux, dew cross. Dew was 
considered by the ancient chemists as 
the most powerful solvent of gold; 
and cross in alchemy is the synonym of 
light, because any figure of a cross 
contains the three letters L V X (light). 
‘‘Tux’’ is the menstruum of the red 
dragon (i.e. corporeal light), and_ this 
gross light properly digested produces 
gold, and dew is the digester. Hence 
the Rosicrucians are those who used dew 
for digesting lux or light, with the object 
of finding the philosopher’s stone. 

“ As for the Rosycross philosophers, 

Whom you will have to be but sorcerers, 

What they pretend to is no more 

Than Trismegistus did before, 

Pythagoras, old Zoroaster, 

And Apollonius their master.” 

Butler : Hudibras, pt. ii. 3, 

Ross (Celtic). A headland; as Ros- 
lin, Culross, Rossberg, Montrose, Rox- 
burg, Ardrossan, etc. 

Ross, from the Welsh ros (“ἃ moor’’); 
found in Welsh and Cornish names, as 
Rossal, Rusholme, etc. 

The Man of Ross. A name given to 
John Kyrle, a native of Whitehouse, in 
Gloucestershire. He resided the greater 
part of his life in the village of Ross, 
Herefordshire, and died 1724. 

“ Who taught that heaven-directed spire to rise ὃ 
_ ‘The Man of Ross,’ each lisping babe replies.” 
Pope: Moral Essays. 

Rosse (2 syl.). A famous sword 
which the dwarf Elberich gave to Otwit, 
King of Lombardy. It struck so fine a 
cut that it left no ‘‘ gap.’’ It shone like 
glass, and was adorned with gold. (See 
SworpD and BALMUNG.) 

a wae sword to thee I give: it is all bright of 

τ ΒΞ ὃς it may cleave, no gap will there 

ensue, 

From Al/mari I brought it, and Rossé is its 

name ; 

Wherever swords are drawn, ’twill put them all 

to shame.” The Heldenbuch. 

Ross’el. One of Reynard’s sons. 
The word means ‘‘reddish.”” (Reynard 
the Fox.) 


Rossignol (French). Rossignol 
@ Arcadie. A donkey ; so called because 
its bray is quite as remarkable as the 
nightingale’s song, and Arcadia is called 


the land of asses and fools. (See FEN 
NIGHTINGALE. ) 
Ros'trum. A pulpit; properly the 


beak of a ship. In Rome, the pulpit 


1076 


Rothschild 


from which orators addressed the public 
was ornamented with the rostra or ship- 
prows taken from the Carthaginians. 


Ro'ta or Rota Men. A political club 
formed in 1651 by Harrington, author of 
Océana, Its objects were to introduce 
rotation in office, and voting by ballot. 
It met at the Turk’s Head, in New 
Palace Yard, Westminster, where the 
members drew up a popular form of 
commonwealth, which will be found in 
Harrington’s Oce'ana. It was called 
Rota because a third part of the mem- 
bers were roted out by ballot every year, 
and were not eligible for re-election for 
three years. 


Rota Aristote'lica (Aristotle’s 
wheel), A problem in mechanics 
founded on the motion of a wheel about 
its axis. First noticed by Aristotle. 


Rota Romana. An ecclesiastical 
court composed of twelve Catholic 
prelates, to adjudicate when a conflict 
of rights occurs. 


Rote. 170 learn by vote is to learn 
by turning words round and round in 
the memory as a wheel. To “learn by 
heart’’ is to learn thoroughly (French, 
apprendre par ceur). Shakespeare speaks 
of the “heart of loss,’’? meaning entire 
Joss, and to love with ‘‘all our heart ᾽ is 
to love thoroughly. (Latin, rota, a 
wheel.) 

“Take hackney'd jokes from Miller got by rote.” 

Byron: English Bards, ete, 

Rothschild [2ed Shield]. Mayer 
Amschel, in 1763, made his appearance 
in Hanover barefoot, with a sack on his 
shoulders and a bundle of rags on his 
back. Successful in trade, he returned 
to Frankfort and set up a small shop, 
over which hung the signboard of a red 
shield. As a dealer in old coins he be- 
came known to William I., Elector of 
Hesse-Cassel, who appointed him confi- 
dential agent. The serene elector being 
compelled to fly his country, Mayer 
Amschel took charge of his cash, amount- 
ing to £250,000. When Napoleon was 
banished to Elba, and the elector re- 
turned, Amschel was dead, but his son 
Anselm restored the money, an act of 
noble honesty which the elector _men- 
tioned at the Congress of Vienna. Hence 
arose the greatness of the house, which 
assumed the name of the Red Shield. 
In 1863 Charles received six millions 
sterling as his personal share and re- 
tiring pension from the firm of the five 
brothers 


Rotten Row 


Rotten Row. Musterrow. Camden 
derives the word from votteran (to mus- 
ter); hence vot, a file of six soldiers. 
Another derivation is the Norman fatten 
Row (roundabout way), being the way 
corpses were carried to avoid the public 
thoroughfares. Otherssuggest Route du 
voi ; and others the Anglo-Saxon rot, 
pleasant, cheerful; or rotten, referrin 
to the soft material with which the roa 
is covered. 


Rotundity of the Belt (Washington 
Irving). Obesity; a large projecting 
paunch; what Shakespeare calls a “ fair 
round belly with good capon lined.” (4s 
You Like It, ii. 7.) 


Roué. The profligate Duke of Or- 
leans, Regent of France, first used this 
word in its modern sense. It was his 
ambition to collect round him companions 
as worthless as himself, and he used 
facetiously to boast that there was not 
one of them who did not deserve to be 
broken on the whee/—that being the most 
ordinary punishment for malefactors at 
the time; hence these profligates went 
by the name of Orleans’ roués or wheels. 
The most notorious roués were the Dukes 
of Richelieu, Broglie, Biron, and Brancas, 
together with Canillac and Nocé; in 
England, the Dukes of Rochester and 
Buckingham. 

A notorious roué. A libertine. 


Rouen. Aller ἃ Rouen. To go to 
ruin. The French are full of these puns, 
and our merry forefathers indulged in 
them also. 

(1) I2 a fait son cours a Asniéres. He 
knows nothing ; he graduated at Dunse 
[Dunce] College. 

(2) Adler a Cachan. 
or ‘‘ se cacher”’ [de ses créanciers] ; 
to Hyde [Hide] Park 

(3) Aller a Dour dan. 
whipped (douder, étre batt) ; 
the road to Flogny. 

(4) Vous étes dé Lagny, vous nv’ avez pas 
hate. I see you are a man of Laggon. 
Don’t hurry yourself, Mr. Slowcoach. 

(6) Il est de Lunel, Il a une chambre a 
Lunel, I1 est des Luniers @ Orléans, or 11 
est Logéa la Lune. He is ἃ lunatic. 


To give leg-bail, 
to go 


To go to be 
to be on 


(6) Envoyer ἃ Mortaigne. Tobeslain, 
or sent to Deadham. 
(7) Aller ἃ Patras. To die; to be 


gathered to one’s fathers (ad patres). 

(8) Adler a Versailles. Tobe going to 
the bad. Here the pun is between Ver- 
sa-illes and renverser. This wretched 
pun is about equal to such a phrase as 
** Going to Downham.”’ 


1077 


Rough-shod 


The Bloody Feast of Rouen (1356). 
Charles the Dauphin gave a banquet to 
his private friends at Rouen, to which 
his brother-in-law Charles the Bad was 
invited. While the guests were at table 
King Jean entered the room with a 
numerous escort, exclaiming, ‘‘ Traitor, 
thou art not worthy to sit at table with 
my son!” Then, turning to his guards, 
he added, “Take him hence! By holy 
Paul, I will neither eat nor drink till his 
head be brought me!”’ Then, seizing an 
iron mace from one of the men-at- -arms, 
he struck another of the guests between 
the shoulders, exclaiming, ‘‘ Out, proud 
traitor ! by the soul of my father, thou 
shalt not live!” Four of the guests 
were beheaded on the spot. 


Rouge (A), 1.6. a red cap, a red re- 
publican, a democrat. 
“She had all the furious prejudices and all the 


instinctive truths in her of an uncompromising 
Rouge.”—Ouida: Under Two Flags, chap, xxxiy. 


Rouge Croix. One of the pursui- 
vauts of the heraldic establishment. So 
called from the red cross of St. George, 
the patron saint of England. 


Rouge Dragon. The pursuivant 
founded by Henry VII.; it was the 
ensign of Cadwaladyr, the last king of 
the Britons, an ancestor of Henry 
Tudor. 


Rouge et Noir (French, red and 
black). A game of chance; so called 
because of the red and black diamonds 
marked on the board. The dealer deals 
out to noir first till the sum of the pips 
exceeds thirty, then to rouge in the same 
manner. That packet ‘which comes 
nearest to thirty-one is the winner of the 
stakes, 


Rough-hewn. Shaped in the rough, 
not finished, unpolished, ill-mannered, 
seaman ἢ 


Taw; as (δ ‘‘rough-hewn 
(Bacon) ; ; a ‘‘rough-hewn discourse ᾽ἢ 
(Howel). 


Rough Music, called in Somersetshire 
skimmity-riding, and by the Basques 
toberac. A ceremony which takes place 
after sunset, when the performers, to 
show their indignation against some man 
or woman who has outraged propriety, 
assemble before the house, and make an 
appalling din with bells, horns, tin pans, 
and other noisy instruments. 


Rough-shod. Liding rough-shod over 
one. Treating one without the least 
consideration. The allusion is to riding 
a horse rough-shod, 


Rough and Ready 


1078 


Round ‘able 


Rough and Ready. Said to be de- 
rived from Colonel Rough, who was in 
the battle of Waterloo. The story says 
that the Duke of Wellington used to 
say ‘‘Rough and ready, colonel,’”’ and 
the family adopted the words as their 
motto. 


Rough and Ready. So General 
Zachary Taylor, twelfth president of the 
United States, was called. (1786-1853.) 


Roughs (Zhe). The coarse, ill-be- 
haved rabble, without any of the polish 
of good breeding. 

Roun’cival. Large; of gigantic size. 
Certain large bones of antediluvian ani- 
mals were at one time said to be the 
bones of the heroes who fell with Roland 
in Roncesyalles. ‘* Rounceval peas”’ are 
those large peas called ‘‘ marrowfats,”’ 
and a very large woman is called a 
rouncival. 


“ Hereof, I take it, it comes that seeing a great 
woman, we say she is a rouncival.’’—Mandeville. 


Round. <A watchman’s beat. He 
starts from one point, and comes round 
again to the same place. 

To walk the Round. The lawyers used 
frequently to give interviews to their 
clients in the Round church ; and ‘‘ walk- 
ing the Round” meant loitering about 
the Round church, under the hope of 
being hired for a witness. 


Round (170). To whisper. _ (Anglo- 
Saxon, runian; German, rawien, to 
whisper.) (See ROUNDED.) 

That lesson which I will round you in 
the-ear—which I will whisper in your 
ear. (Bunyan: Pilgrim’s Progress.) 

“France... rounded in the ear with [by]... 
commodity [self-interest] hath resolved to [on] a 
queer base... peace.”—Shakespeare: King John, 
“ And ner the feend he drough as nought ne were, 

Ful privély, and rounéd in hisfeere, 

*Herké, my brother, herké, by thi faith .. .” 

Chaucer: Canterbury Tales, 7132. 

Round Dealing. Honest, straight- 
forward dealing, without branching off 
into underhand tricks, or deviating from 
the straight path into the by-ways of 
finesse. 

“Round dealing is the honour of man’s nature.” 
—Buacon. 

Round Numbers (Jv). In whole 
numbers, without regarding the frac- 
tions. Thus we say the population of 
the British Isles is forty millions in 
round numbers, and that of London four 
millions (1895). The idea is that what 
is round is whole or perfect, and, of 
course, fractions, being broken numbers, 
cannot belong thereto. 


Round Peg. ound peg in the 
square hole, and square peg in the round 
hole. The wrong man in the wrong 
place; especially applied to government 
officials. The expression was used in 
1855, by Mr. Layard, speaking of the 
‘* Administration Reform Association.”’ 
The allusion is to such games as crib- 
bage, German tactics, etc. 

In 1804, Sydney Smith, in his Moral Philosophy, 
said: “ You choose to represent the various parts 
in life by holes upona table... . We shall gener- 
ally find that the triangular person has got into 
the square hole, the oblong into the triangular 


hole, and the round person has squeezed himself 
into the square hole.” 


Round Robin. A petition or protest 
signed in such a way that no name 
heads the list. Of course, the signatures 
are placed in a circular form. The 
device is French, and the term is a cor- 
ruption of rond (round) ruban (a ribbon). 
It was first adopted by the officers of 
government as a means of making known 
their grievances. 


Round Sum. 4 good round sum. 
A large sum of money. Shakespeare 
says the Justice has a ‘‘ big round belly, 
with good capon lined ; ’’ and the notion 
of puffed out or bloated is evidently the 
idea of Shylock when he says to Bas- 
sa‘nio, ‘‘’Tis a good round sum.”’ 


Round Table. Made by Merlin at 
Carduel for Uter Pendragon. Uter gave 
it to King Leodegraunce, of Camelyard, 
and King Leodegraunce gave it to 
Arthur when the latter married Guin- 
ever, his daughter. It seated 150 
knights, and a place was left in it for 
the San Graal. 

What is usually-meant by Arthur’s 
Round Table is a smaller one for the 
accommodation of twelve favourite 
knights. Henry VIII. showed Fran- 
cois I. the table at Winchester, which 
he said was the one used by the British 
king. 

The Round Table, says Dr. Percy, was 
not peculiar to the reign of King 
Arthur, but was common in all the ages 
of chivalry. Thus the King of Ireland, 
father of the fair Christabelle, says in 
the ballad— 


“ Ts there never a knighte of my round tablé 

This matter willundergo?” Sir Cauline. 
Round Table. In the eighth year of 
Edward I., Roger de Mortimer estab- 
lished a Round Table at Kenilworth 
for ‘‘the encouragement of military 
astimes.”? At this foundation 100 
ights and as many ladies were enter- 
tained at the founder’s expense. About 


Round Table 


1079 


Rout 


seventy years later, Edward ITI. erected 
a splendid table at Windsor. It was 
200 feet in diameter, and the expense 
of entertaining the knights thereof 
amounted to £100 a week. 


A round table. A tournament. ‘‘So 
called by reason that the place wherein 
they practised those feats was environed 
‘with a strong wall made in a round 
form” (Dugdale). We still talk of tadb/e- 
land. 


Holding a round table. Proclaiming or 
holding a grand tournament. Matthew 
of Paris frequently calls justs and tour- 
naments Hastilu'dia Mense Rotunde 
(lance games of the Round Table). 


Knights of the Round Table. There 
were 150 knights who had “sieges” at 
the table. King Leodegraunce brought 
over 100 when, at the wedding of his 
daughter Guinever, he gave the table to 
King Arthur; Merlin filled up twenty- 
eight of the vacant seats, and the king 
elected Gawaine and Tor; the remaining 
twenty were left for those who might 
prove worthy. (History of Prince 
Arthur, 45, 46.) 

Knights of the Round Table. The 
most celebrated are Sirs Acolon,* Ag’- 
ravain, Am’oral of Wales, Ball’amore,* 
Banier, Beaumans,* Beleo’bus,* Bevi- 
dere, Belvour,* Bersunt,* Bliom’beris, 
Borro or Bors * (Arthur's natural son), 
Brandiles, Brunor, Caradoc the Chaste 
(the only knight who could quaff the 
golden cup), Col’grevance, Din’adam, 
Driam, Dodynas the Savage, Eric, 
Floll,* Galahad or Galaad the Modest,* 
Gareth,* Gaheris,* Galohalt,* Gawain 
or Gauwin the Gentle * (Arthur’s 
nephew), Grislet,* Hector of Mares (1 
syl.) or Ector of Marys,* Iwein or 
Ewaine* (also written Yvain), Kay,* 
Ladynas, Lamereck o7 lLamerock,* 
Lancelot oy Launcelot du Lac* (the 
seducer of Arthur’s wife), Lanval of the 
Fairy Lance, Lavain, Lionell,* Lucan, 
Marhaus,* Melia’dus, Mordred the 
Traitor (Arthur’s nephew), Morolt o7 
Morhault of the Iron Mace, Pag’inet,* 
Palamede ov Palame’dés,* Phar’amond. 
Pell’eas,* Pell'inore, Persuant of Inde 
(meaning of the indigo or blue armour), 
Per'civall,* Peredur, Ryence, Sag’ra- 
mour le Desirus, Sa/gris,* Super’bilis,* 
Tor or Torres* (reputed son of Ariés 
the cowherd), Tristram ov Tristran 
the Love-lorn,* Tur’quine,* Wig’alois, 
Wig’amor, Ywain (see Iwein). 

* The thirty marked with a star (*) 
are seated with Prince Arthur at the 
Round Table, in the frontispiece of the 


Famous History of the Renowned Prince 
Arthur. 


“ There Galaad sat with manly grace, 
Yet maiden meekness in his face ; 
There Morolt of the iron mace, 
And love-lorn Tristrem there; 
And Dinadam with lively glance, 
And Lanval with the fairy lance, 
And Mordred with his looks askance, 
Brunor and Beyidere. 
Why should I tell of numbers more ? 
Sir Cay, Sir Banier, and Sir Bore, 
Sir Caradoc the keen, 
The gentle Gawain’s courteous lore, 
Hector de Mares, and Pellinore, 
And Lancelot, that evermore 
Looked stol’n-wise on the queen.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Bridal of Triermain, il. 13. 
Knights of the Round Table. Their 
chief exploits occurred in quest of the 
San Graal or Holy Cup, brought to 
Britain by Joseph of Arimathe’a. 
Hareourt’s Round Table. (See Har- 


ΟΊ Ε΄". <|-) 


Round asa Ball;.. 
as an orange, etc. 


Roundabout (4). A Pict’s camp, 


“His desire of his companion a Pict'’s camp, or 
Roundabout.’— Sir W. Scott: The Antiquary, 
chap. i. 

Roundheads. Puritans; so called 
because they wore their hair short, while 
the Royalists wore long hair covering 
their shoulders. 

“ Andere their butter ’gan fo coddle, 

A bullet churnd i’ th’ Roundhead’s noddle.” 
Men Miracles, p. 43 (1656), 

Roundle, in heraldry, is a charge of 
a round or circular form. ‘They are of 
eight sorts, distinguished by their tinc- 
tures: (1) a Bezant, tincture ‘“ or ;”’ (2) 
a Plate, tincture ‘“‘argent;’’ (3) a Tor- 
teau, tincture ‘‘gules;” (4) a Hurt, 
tincture ‘‘ azure ;”’ (0) απ Ogress or Pellet, 
tincture ‘‘ sable ;’’ (6) a Golpe, tincture 
““purpure ;’’ (7) a Guze, tincture ‘‘ san- 
guine ; bee (8) an Orange, tincture 


. as an apple, 


Rounfl. So the Britons called ogres, 
and the servants or attendants of the 
ogres they called Grewnds, 


Rouse (4). A contraction of ca- 
rousal, a drinking bout. (Swedish, 
rus; Norwegian, vwus, drunkenness ; 
Dutch, 7065, a bumper.) Rouse (1 syl.). 
“The king doth wake to-night, and takes his 

rouse.” Shakespeare: Hamilet, i. 4. 

Rou’sing. A rousing good fire. 
Rousing means large, great; hence a 
rousing falsehood (mendacium magnif'i-= 
cum). 


Rout (4). A large evening party. 


(Welsh, rhawter, a crowd.) (See Drum, 
HURRICANE, etc.) 


Routiers 


1080 


Royal Titles 


Rou'tiers, Adventurers who made 
war a trade and let themselves out to 
anyone who would pay them. So called 
because they were always on the route 
or moving from place to place. (Twelfth 
century.) 


Rove (lsyl.). To shoot with roving 
arrows—i.¢. arrows shot at a roving 
mark, either in height or distance. 

To shoot atrovers. To shoot at certain 
marks of the target so called; to shoot 
at random without any distinct aim. 

“Unhbelievers are said by Clobery to ‘shoot at 
rovers,’ "—Divine Glimpses, p. 4 (1659). 

Running at rovers. Running wild; 

being without restraint. 


Row (rhyme with zow). A tumult. 
It used to be written vowe, and referred 
to the night encounters of the roués or 
profligate bon-vivants whose glory it 
was to attack the ‘‘Charleys’’ and dis- 
turb the peace. (Sze Rove.) 

Row (thyme with low). The Row 
means ‘‘ Paternoster Row,’’ famous for 
publishing firms and wholesale book- 
sellers, or Rotten Row (g.v.\. (Anglo- 
Saxon, γι, a line.) 

Rowdy (rhyme with cloudy). A 
ruffian brawler, a ‘‘rough,’’ a riotous or 
turbulent fellow, whose delight is to 
make a row or disturbance. 


A Saxon princess, and 
(Sir Walter Scott : 


Rowe’na. 
bride of Ivanhoe. 
Ivanhoe.) 


Rowland. (Sce RoLAND.) 

Childe Rowland. Youngest brother 
of the ‘‘ fair burd Helen.”’ Guided by 
Merlin, he undertook to bring back his 
sister from Elf-land, whither the fairies 
had carried her, and succeeded in his 
perilous exploit. (Ancient Scotch ballad.) 

“ Childe Rowland to the dark tower came ; 

His word was still ‘ Fie, foh, and fum, 

I smell the blood of a Britishman.’” 

Shakespeare: King Lear, iii. 4. 

Rowley (Thomas). The fictitious 
priest of Bristol, said by Chatterton to 
have been the author of certain poems 
which he (Chatterton) published. 


Rowned in the Ear. Whispered 
in the ear. The old word vown, rowned 
(to whisper, to talkin private). Polonius 
says to the king in Hamlet—“‘ Let his 
queen-mother all alone entreat him to 
show his grief—let her be rowned with 
him;”’ not blunt and loud, but in 
private converse, (See Rounn, 70.) 

Roxburghe Club for printing rare 
works or MSS., the copies being rigidly 
confined to members of the club, It 


was called after John, Duke of Rox- 
burghe, a celebrated collector of ancient 
literature, who died 1812. Since the 
establishment of this club, others of a 
similar character have sprung up, as 
(1) the Camden, Cheetham, Percy, 
Shakespeare, Surtees, and Wharton, in 
England; (2) the Abbotsford, Bannatyne, 
Maitland, and Spalding, in Scotland: 
and (3) the Celtic Society of Ireland. 


Roy (Ze) [or la Reine] s’avisera. 
This is the royal veto, last put in force 
March 11,1707, when Queen Anne refused 
her assent to a Scotch Militia Bill. 

During the agitation for Catholic 
emancipation, George III. threatened a 
veto, but the matter was not brought to 
the test. 


Royal Arms worn bya subject. (See 
LANE. ) 


Royal Goats (Tie). The Royal 
Welsh Fusiliers, noted for their nanny- 
goat. This gallant regiment was at 
Blenheim, Oudenarde, Malplaquet, Det- 
tingen, Vittoria, Alma, Inkermann, and 
many another field. 


Royal Merchant. In the thirteenth 
century the Venetians were masters of 
the sea, and some of their wealthy mer- 
chants—as the Sanu'dos, the Justinia‘ni, 
the Grimal'di, and others—erected prin- 
cipalities in divers places of the Archi- 
pelago, which their descendants enjoyed 
for many centuries. These self-created 
princes were called ‘‘ royal merchants.” 
(Warburton.) 

τ Glancing an eye of pity on his losses, 

That have of late so huddled on his back, 
Enough to press a royal merchant down.” 
Shakespeare : Merchant of Venice, iv. 1. 

~ Sir Thomas Gresham was called a 

‘royal merchant.”’ 


Royal Road to Learning. Euclid, 
having opened a school of mathematics 
at Alexandria, was asked by King 
Ptolemy whether he could not explain 
his art to him in a more compendious 
manner. ‘‘Sire,’’ said the geometrician, 
‘* there is no royal road to learning.”’ 


Royal Titles. (1) Of England— 
Henry IV. was styled His Grace; Henry 
VI., His Excellent Grace ; Edward IV., 
High and Mighty Prince ; Henry VII., 
His Grace and His Majesty; Henry VIIL., 
His Highness, then His Majesty. Sub- 
sequently kings were styled His Sacred 
Majesty. Our present style is Her Most 
Gracious Majesty. 

(2) Royal titles, their meaning : Abime- 
lech (Father King). Autocrat (self-poten- 
tate, i.e, absolute). Caesar (in compliment 


Royston 


1081 


Rubric 


to Julius Cesar). Calif (successor). Cham 
(chieftain). Czax (autocrat, a contraction 
of Samodersheta). Darius (holder of 
the empire). Duke (leader). Emperor 
(commander). Hospodar (Slavonic, master 
of the house). Kaiser (Cesar). Khan 
(provincial chief). Khedive (swzerain). 
King (father). Landgrave (/and reeve). 
Maharajah (great sovereign), Margrave 
(border reeve). Nejus (lord protector). 
Nizam (ruler). Pharaoh (light of the 
world). Queen (mother). Rajah (prince 
or sovereign). Shah or Padishah (pro- 
tector, sceptred protector), Sheik (elder). 
Sultan (77/er). 


Royston (Herts) means king’s town; 
so called in honour of King Stephen, who 
erected a cross there. (French, 707.) 

A. Royston horse and Cambridge Master 
of Arts will give way tono one. A Cam- 
bridgeshire proverb. Royston was a 
village famous for malt, which was sent 
to London on horseback. These heavy- 
laden beasts never moved out of the 
way. The Masters of Arts, being the 
great dons of Cambridge, had the wall 
conceded to them by the inhabitants out 
of courtesy. 


Rozinante (4syl.). A wretched jade 
of ariding-horse. Don Quixote’s horse 
was so called, (Spanish, rocin-ante, a 
hack before.) 


“Tt is the only time he will sit. hehind the 
wretched Rosinante, and it would be Quixotic of 
him to expect speed.” —London Review. 


(See Horse.) 


Ruach. The Isle of Winds, visited 
by Pantag’ruel and his fleet on their 
way to the Oracle of the Holy Bottle, is 
the isle of windy hopes and unmeaning 
flattery. The people of this island live 
on nothing but wind, eat nothing but 
wind, and drink nothing but wind. They 
have no other houses but weathercocks, 
seeing everyone is obliged to shift his 
way of life to the ever-changing caprice 
of court fashion ; and they sow no other 
seeds but the wind-flowers of promise 
and flattery. The common people get 
only a fan-puff of food very occasionally, 
but the richer sort banquet daily on huge 
mill-draughts of the same unsubstantial 
stuff. (Rabelais : Pantag'ruel, iv. 43.) 


Rub. An impediment, The expres- 
sion is taken from bowls, where ‘‘rub”’ 
means that something hinders the free 
movement of your bowl. 


** Without rub or interruption,”"—Swift. 
“Likea bowle that runneth in a smooth allie, 
without anie rub.”—Stanihurst, p. 10. 


Rubber of Whist (4). 


A game of 
cards called ‘‘ whist,”’ 


*“Rubber”’ is 


transferred from bowls, in which the 
collision of two balls is a rubber, be- 
cause they rub against each other. 


Rubens’ Women. The portrait of 
Helena Forman or Fourment, his second 
wife, married at the age of 16, introduced 
in several of his historical paintings ; but 
the woman in Rubens and His Wife, 
in the Munich gallery, is meant for 
Isabella Brandt, of Antwerp, his first 
wife. 

Rubi. One of the Cherubim or 
«Spirits of Knowledge,’’ who was pre- 
sent when Eve walked in Paradise. He 
felt the most intense interest in her, 
and longed, as the race increased, to find 
one of her daughters whom he could 
love. He fixed upon Lir’is, young and 
proud, who thirsted for knowledge, and 
cared not what price she paid to obtain 
it. After some months had elapsed, 
Liris asked her angel lover to let her see 
him in his full glory; so Rubi showed 
himself to her in all his splendour, and 
she embraced him. Instantly Liris was 
burnt to ashes by the radiant light, and 
the kiss she gave on the angel’s forehead 
became a brand, which shot agony into 
his brain. That brand was “ left for ever 
on his brow,’’ and that agony knew no 


abatement. (Thomas Moore: Loves of 
the Angels, story ii.) 
Rubicon. 70 pass the Rubicon. To 


adopt some measure from which it is 
not possible to recede, Thus, when the 
Austrians, in 1859, passed the Tici’no, 
the act was a declaration of war against 
Sardinia ; and in 1866, when the Italians 
passed the Adige, it was a declaration of 
war against Austria. The Rubicon was 
a small river separating ancient Italy 
from Cisalpine Gaul (the province al- 
lotted to Julius Cesar). When Cesar 
crossed this stream he passed beyond the 
limits of his own province and became 
an invader of Italy. 


Rubo’nax. Sir Philip Sidney says, 
Rubonax ‘‘ was driven by a poet’s verses 
to hang himself.’? (Defence of Poesie.) 


Rubric (from the Latin rwbrica, ‘‘red 
ochre,’’? or ‘‘ vermilion’’), An ordin- 
ance or law was by the Romans called 
arubric, because it was written with ver- 
milion, in contradistinction to pretorian 
edicts or rules of the court, which were 
posted on a white ground. (Jwvenal, 
xiv. 192.) 


“ Rubrica vetavit” = the law has forbidden it, 
(Persius, v. 99.) 

“Praetores edicta sua in albo proponebant, ac 
rubricas [i.e. jus civile] translalérunt.’’—Quinti- 
lian, xil, 3, 11, 


Ruby 


1082 


Rue 


“Rules and orders directing how, when, and 
where all things in divine service are to be per- 
formed were formerly printed in red characters 
(now generally in italics), and called rubrics.’— 
Hook: Church Dictionary. 

Ru'by. The King of Ceylon has the 
finest ruby ever seen. ‘‘It is a span 
long, as thick as a man’s arm, and with- 
out a flaw.’’? Kublai-Khan offered the 
value of a city for it, but the king 
answered that he would not part with it 
if all the treasures of the world were laid 
at his feet. (Marco Polo.) 


Ruby (Ze). The ancients considered 
the ruby to be an antidote of poison, 
to preserve persons from plague, to 
banish grief, to repress the ill effects of 
luxuries, and to divert the mind from 
evil thoughts. 


Ruby (Zhe Perfect). The vhiloso- 
pher’s stone. (See FLOWER OF THE 
Sun.) 


Ruchiiel. God of the air. 
ruch, air; el,god.) (Jewish mythology.) 


Rudder. Who won't be ruled by the 
rudder must be ruled by the rock. Who 
won't listen to reason must bear the 
consequences, like a ship that runs upon 
a rock if it will not answer the helm. 


Ruddock. The redbreast, ‘‘ sacred 
to the household gods.’”? The legend 
says if a redbreast finds a dead body in 
the woods it will ‘‘ cover it with moss.’’ 
Drayton alludes to this tradition— 

“ Covering with moss the dead’s unclosed eye, 

The little redbreast teacheth charitie.” 
The Owl. 
Shakespeare makes Arvir’agus say over 
Imogen— 


(Hebrew, 


“Thou shalt not lack 
The flower that’s like thy face, pale primrose ; nor 
‘The azured barebell . . . the ruddock would 
With charitable bill . . . bring theeall these.” 
Cymbeline, iv. 2. 


So also in the folk tale of The Babes in 


the Wood— 
_“The Robins so red 
Fresh strawherry-leaves did over them spread.” 


Ruddy-mane [Bloody-hand]. The 
infant son of Sir Mordamt: so called be- 
cause his hand was red with his mother’s 
blood. She had stabbed herself because 
her husband had been paralysed by a 
draught from an enchanted stream. 
(Spenser: Faérie Queene, bk. ii. 1, 3.) 


Rudge (Barnaby). A half-witted 
lad, who had for his companion a raven, 
(Dickens : Barnaby Rudge.) 


Rudiger (3 syl.). Margrave of 
Bechelar’en, a wealthy Hun, liegeman of 
King Etzel, In the Vibelungen-Lied he 


is represented as a most noble character, 
He was sent to Burgundy by King Etzel, 
to conduct Kriemhild to Hungary if she 
would consent to marry the Hunnish 
king. When Gunther and his suite went 
to pay a visit to Kriemhild, he enter- 
tained them all most hospitably, and 
gave his daughter in marriage to Kriem- 
hild’s youngest brother, Gis‘elher; and 
when the broil broke out in the dining- 
hall of King Etzel, and Rudiger was 
compelled to take part against the Bur- 
gundians, he fought with Kriemhild’s 
second brother, Gernot. Rudiger struck 
Gernot ‘‘ through his helmet,” and the 
prince struck the margrave ‘‘ through 
shield and morion,’’ and ‘‘down dead 
dropped both together, each by the other 
slain.’’ —Nibelungen- Lied, 


Rudol'phine Tables (Zhe). Tabule 
Rudolphine, 1627. Astronomical calcu- 
lations begun by Tycho Brahé, and con- 
tinued by Kepler, under the immediate 


| patronage of Kaiser Rudolph IL, after 


whom Kepler named the work. 


Rudolph gave Tycho Brahéan annuity of £1,500 
sterling. George III, gave Herschel an annuity 
of £200, 

Rudolstadt (Za Comtesse de), or 
“*Consuelo,”? who marries the Count of 
Rudolstadt. (Romance by George Sand: 
Madame Dudevant.) (See CONSUELO.) 


Ruéra. Father of the tempest-gods, 
The word means ‘‘run about crying,” 
and the legend says that the boy ran 
about weeping because he had no name, 
whereupon Brahma said, “ Let thy name 
be Rud-dra.’? (Sanskrit, 7d, weep; 
dra, run.) (Vedie mythology.) 


Rue, to grieve for something done, 
to repent, is the Anglo-Saxon rveow, con- 
trition; German, veue. Rue (1 syl.). 


Rue, called ‘‘ herb of grace,’’ because 
it was employed for sprinkling holy 
water. Without doubt it was so used 
symbolically, because fo 716 means to 
be sorry, and penitence brings the water 
of grace with it. (Latin, swta, from 
the Greek rho, so called because it sets 
persons free from disease and death.) 
(See DIFFERENCE.) Ophelia says— 

“There’s rue for you, and here’s some for me! 
we may call it ‘*herl of grace’ οὐ Sundays,”"— 
Shakespeare : Hamlet, iv. 5. 

Rue. A slip of land (free of all mano- 
rial charges and claims) encompassing or 
bounding manorial land. It certainly is 
not derived from the French 7we, a street, 
nor is it a corruption of row. (See 
REWE.) 


Ruffe 


Rewe is a roll or slip, hence Ragman’s 
rewe or roll (7.v.). 

“There is a whole world of curious history con- 
tained in the phrase Ragman’s rewe, meaning a 
roll. In Piers Plowman’s Vision, the pope's bull 
is called a rewe.”—Edinburgh Review, July, 1870. 

Ruffe (1 syl.). A game at cards, now 
called slamm,; also playing a trump, 
when one cannot follow suit. 

“A swaggerer is one that plays at ruffre, from 


whence he took the denomination of ruffyn.’—J. 
H., (Gent.) Satirical Epigrams, 1619. 


Ruffian Hall. That part of West 
Smithfield which is now the horse- 
market, where ‘‘tryals of skill were plaid 
by ordinary ruffianly people with sword 
and buckler.”? (Blount, p. 562.) 


Rufus (Zhe Red). William II. of 
England. (1056, 1087-1100.) 

Otho II. of Germany ; also called The 
Bloody. (99, 973-983.) 

Gilbert de Clare, Earl of Gloucester, 
son-in-law of Edward I. (Slain 1313.) 


Ruggie’ro. (See RoGERO.) 


Rukenaw (Dame). 
in the tale of Reynard the Fox. 
word means noisy Insolence. 


Rule (54) or St. Reg’ulus, a monk 
of Patre in Achaia, is the real saint of 
Scotland. He was the first to colonise 
its metropolitan see, and to convert the 
inhabitants (370). The name Killrule 
(Cella Reg’ uli) perpetuates this fact, St. 
Andrew superseded the Achzan. 

“ But I have solemn vows to pay... 
To far St. Andrew’s bound, 
Within the ocean-cave to pray, 
Where good St. Rule his holy lay 


Sung to the billow’s sound.” 
Sir Walter Scott : Marmion, i. 20. 


Rule, Britannia. Words by Thom- 
son, author of Zhe Seasons ; music by 
Dr. Arne. It first appeared in a masque 
entitled Alfred, in which the name of 
David Mallett is associated with that of 
James Thomson, and some think he was 
the real author of this ‘‘ political hymn.”’ 
(August 1, 1740.) 


Rule Nisi. A ‘“‘rule”’ is an order 
from one of the superior courts, and a 
“rule nisi’? is such an order ‘‘to show 
cause.’’ That is, the rule is to be held 
absolute awnless the party to whom it 
applies can “show cause’’ why it should 
not be so, 


Rule of Thumb (7ze). A rough 
guess-work measure. Measuring lengths 
by the thumb. In some places the heat 
required in brewing is determined by 
dipping the thumb into the vat. 


The ape’s wife 
The 


1083 


Rump-fed 


Rule of thumb. In the legend of 
Knockmany Fin, Mr, Coul says :— 


“That baste Cucullin [is coming], ... for my 
thumb tells me so.’ To which his wife replies: 
‘ Well, my Cully, don’t be cast down. ... Maybe 
I'll bring you better out of this scrape than ever 
you could bring yourself by your rule of thumb 
Rasen te to the pricking of the thumb].’”"—W. B. 

veats: Fairy Tales of the Irish Peasantry, p. 270. 

Again, p. 274, Fin knew by the “pricking of his 
thumb” that the giant Cucullin would arrive at 
two o'clock. In these cases the “rule of thnmb” 
refers to the prognostics of the thumb, referred 
to by the witches of Machbeth.' .“ By the pricking 
of my thumbs, something evil this way comes.” 


Rule of the Road (1716). 


© The rule of the road’s an anomaly quite, 
In riding or driving along: 
Jf you go to the left you are sure to go right, 
If you go to the right you go wrong.” 


It is not so in France. 


Rule the Roost (70). The cock 
rules which of the hens is to have the 
honour of roosting nearest him, (See 
under Roast.) 

“Geate you nowe up into your pulpittes like 
bragginge cocks on the rowst, flappe your winges 
and crowe out aloude.”—Jevwell. 

Rum. Queer, quaint, old-fashioned. 
This word was first applied to Roman 
Catholic priests, and subsequently to 
other clergymen. Thus Swift speaks of 
“a rabble of tenants and rusty dull 
rums” (country parsons). As_ these 
“rusty dull rums’’ were old-fashioned 
and quaint, a ‘‘rum fellow’? came to 
signify one as odd as a ‘rusty dull 
rum.”’ 

*t Professor De Morgan thought that 
the most probable derivation was from 
booksellers trading with the West Indies. 
It is said that in the eighteenth century 
they bartered books tor rum, but set 
aside chiefly such books as would not sell 
in England. 


Ru'minate (3 syl.). To think, to 
meditate upon some subject; properly, 
“to chew the cud’’ (Latin, 7" η11710). 

“To chew the cud of sweet and bitter fancy.”— 


Milton. 
“On a flowery bank he chews the cud.”"—Dryden. 


Rumolt. Gunther’s chief cook. 


ΓΕ Sore toiled the chief cook, Rumolt; ah ! how his 

orders ran 

Among his understrappers! how many a pot 
and pan, 

How many a mighty cauldron rattled and rang 
again ! 

They dressed a world of dishes for the expected 
train.’ 

Lettsom’s Nibelungen-Lied, stanza 800. 


Rump-fed, that is, fed on scraps, 
such as liver, kidneys, chitlings, and 
other kitchen perquisites. 


“Aroint thee, witch! the rump-fed ronyon 
cries.” Shakespeare : Macbeth, i. 3. 


A ronyon or ronian is a kitchen 


Rump Parliament 


1084 


Running Footman 


wench fed on scraps (French, vognon, 
a kidney). 


Rump Parliament. Oliver Crom- 
well (1648) sent two regiments to the 
House of Commons to coerce the mem- 
bers to condemn Charles I. Forty-one 
were seized and imprisoned in a lower 
room of the House, 160 were ordered to 
go home, and the sixty favourable to 
Cromwell were allowed to remain. These 
sixty were merely the fag-end or rwmp 
of the whole House. (See PRIDE’s 
PURGE.) 

The name was revived again in the 
protectorate of Richard Cromwell. Sub- 
sequently the former was called The 
Bloody Rwnp, and the latter The Rwnp 
of a Rump. 

“The few, 
Because they're wasted to the stumps, 
Are represented best by rumps.” 
Butler: Hudibras, pt. iii. 2. 

Rumpelstilzchen| Rwmple-stilts- 
skin]. A passionate little deformed 
dwarf. A miller’s daughter was en- 
joined by a king to spin straw into gold, 
and the dwarf did it for her, on con- 
dition that she would give him her first 
child. The maiden married the king, 
and grieved so bitterly when her first 
child was born that the dwarf promised 
to relent if within three days she could 
find out his name. Two days were spent 
in vain guesses, but the third day one 
of the queen’s servants heard a strange 
voice singing— 

“ Little dreams my dainty dame 
Rumpelstilzchen i; my name.” 
The queen, being told thereof, saved her 
child, and the dwarf killed himself with 
rage. (German Popular Stories.) 


Rumping Dozen. A corruption of 
Rump and Dozen, meaning a rump of 
beef and a dozen of claret; or a rump 
steak and dozen oysters. 


Run. A long run, a short run. We 
say of a drama, ‘‘It had a long ΤΠ, 
meaning it attracted the people to the 
house, and was represented over and 
over again for many nights. The allu- 
sion is to a runner who continues his 
race for a long way. The drama ran 
on night after night without change. 

In the long run. In the final result. 
This allusion is to race-running: one 
may get the start for a time, but in the 
long run, or entire race, the result may 
be different. The hare got the start, 
but in the long run the patient per- 
severance of the tortoise won the race, 

To go with arun. A seaman’s phrase. 
A rope goes with a run when it is let 


go entirely, instead of being slackened 
gradually. 


Run Amuck. (See AMUCE.) 

“Tt was like a Malay running amuck, only with 
a more deadly weapon.”’—The Times. 
“ Frontless and satire-proof he scours the streets, 

And runs an Indian-muck at all he meets.” 

Dryden: The Hind and the Panther. 

Run a Rig (70). To play a trick, 
to suffer a sportive trick. Thus, John 
Gilpin, when he set out, “‘ little thought 
ot running such a rig’”’ as he suffered, 
Florio gives as a meaning of rig, ‘‘ the 
tricks of a wanton;’’ hence frolicsome 
and deceptive tricks. The rig of a ship 
means the way it is rigged, hence its 
appearance ; and, as pirates deceive by 
changing the rig of their vessel, so rig 
came to mean a trick to deceive, a trick, 
a frolicsome deception. 


Run Riot (70). To run wild. A 
hunting term, meaning to run at a 
whole herd. 


Run Thin (Zo). To start from a 
bargain. When liquor runs thin it 
indicates that the cask is nearly empty. 


Run a Man Down (70). To abuse, 
depreciate. A hunting term. 


Run of the House (71). He has 
the run of the house. Free access to it, 
and free liberty to partake of whatever 
comes to table. A ‘‘run of events”’ 
means a series of good, bad, and in- 
different, as they may chance to succeed 
each other. And the ‘‘run of the 
house’’ means the food and domestic 
arrangements as they ordinarily occur. 


Runs. Zhe tub vws—leaks, or lets 
out water. In this and all similar 
phrases the verb run means to ‘‘ be in a 
running state.” Thus we have ‘the 
ulcer runs,”’ ‘‘ the cup runs over,”’ ‘‘ the 
rivers run blood,” ‘‘ the field runs with 
blood.”’ 


Runs may Read (//e that). The 
Bible quotation in Habakkuk ii. 2 is, 
“Write the vision, and make it plain, 
that he may run that readeth it.’’ 
Cowper says-— 

* But truths, on which depends our main con- 

Shine pyle side of every path we tread 

With such a lustre, he that runs may read.” 

Tirocinium, 

Running. Quite out of the running. 
Quite out of court, not worthy of con- 
sideration. A horse which has been 
‘scratched ’’ is quite out of the run- 
ning. (See SCRATCHED.) 


Running Footman. The last of 
these menials died out with the infamous 
Duke of Queensberry. In the early part 


Running Leather 


108 


ὃ Rush 


of the eighteenth century no great house 
was complete without some half-dozen 
of them. Their duty was to run before 
and alongside the fat Flemish mares of 
the period, and advise the innkeeper of 
the coming guests. The pole which 
they carried was to help the cumbrous 
coach of their master out of the nu- 
merous sloughs on the northern and 
western high-roads. (See Bow STREET 
RUNNERS, ESTAFETTE. ) 


Running Leather. 
made of running leather. He is given to 
roving. Probably the pun is between 
roan and 7200. 


Running Thursday. In the be- 
ginning of the reign of William III. a 
rumour ran that the French and Irish 
Papists had landed; a terrible panic 
ensued, and the people betook them- 
selves to the country, running for their 
lives. Joseph Perry says: “1 was dis- 
mally affrighted the day called Running 
Thursday. It was that day the report 
reached our town, and I expected to be 
killed’? (his Zife). The day in ques- 
tion was Thursday, Dec. 13, 1688. 

Running Water. No enchantment 
can subsist in a living stream ; if, there- 
fore, a person can interpose a brook 
betwixt himself and the witches, sprites, 
or goblins chasing him, he is in perfect 
safety. Burns’ tale of Zam o’ Shanter 
turns upon this superstition. 


Running the Hood. It is said that 
an old lady was passing over Haxey Hill, 
when the wind blew away her hood. 
Some boys began tossing it from one to 
the other, and the old lady so enjoyed 
the fun that she bequeathed thirteen 
acres of land, that thirteen candidates 
might be induced to renew the sport on 
the 6th of every January. 


Runcible Spoon (4). A horn spoon 
with a bowl at each end, one the size of 
a table-spoon and the other the size of a 
tea-spoon. There is a joint midway 
between the two bowls by which the 
bowls can be folded over. 


Runes. The earliest alphabet in use 
among the Gothic tribes of Northern 
Europe. The characters were employed 
either for purposes of secrecy or for 
divination. vin is Gaelic for ‘‘ secret,’’ 
and helrtéim means ‘‘ divination.’’ 


There were several sorts of runes in Celtic my- 
thology : as (1) the Evil Rune. employed when evil 
was invoked ; (2) the Secwrable Rune, to secure 
from misadventure: (3) the Victorious Rune, to 
procure victory over enemies ; (4) Medicinal Rune, 
for restoring to health the indisposed, or for 
averting danger; and (5) the Maledictory Rune, 
to bring down curses on enemies. (Compare 
Balaam and Balak.) & 


His shoes are 


Runic Rhymes. Rhymes in imita- 
tion of the Edda or Book of Rune My- 
thology ; rude, old-fashioned poetry of 
a Runic stamp. 


Runic Wands. Willow wands with 
mystic characters inscribed on them, 
used by the Scandinavians for magic 
ceremonies. 


Runnymede. The nom de guerre of 
Disraeli in the Times. (1806-1881.) 


Rupee. A silver coin = 2s. English 
(a florin). A lac of rupees = £10,000 
sterling. Since the depreciation of silver 
the value of a rupee is considerably less. 


+: In 1870an ounce of silver Was worth 604d. ; in 
1876 it fell to 49d. ; to-day (May, 1895) it is quoted 
between 58d. and 59d. ; and at New York at 618... 
per ounce. 

Rupert of Debate. Edward Geof- 
frey, fourteenth Earl of Derby. It was 
when he was Mr. Stanley, and the oppo- 
nent of the great O (i.e. O’Connell), that 
Lord Lytton so describes him. (1799- 
1869.) 

“The brilliant chief, irregularly great, 
Frank, haughty, bold—the Rupert of Dehate.” 
New Timon. 

Rupert’s Balls, or Prince Rupert's 
Drops. Glass bubbles first brought to 
England by Prince Rupert. Each bubble 
has a tail, and if the smallest part of the 
tail is broken off the bubble explodes, 
The French term is larme Batavique, 
because these toys were invented in 
Holland. 


“The first production of an author... is 
usually esteemed as a sort of Prince Rupert's 
drop, which is destroyed entirely if a person make 
on it but a single scratch.”—Houselold Words. 


Rupert’s Head (Sir), Devonshire. 
The legend is that the young wife of Sir 
Rupert Leigh eloped with a paramour, 
and the guilty pair, being pursued, were 
overtaken on the Red Cliff. The woman 
fell over the cliff, and the paramour 
sneaked off ; but Sir Rupert let himself 
down some thirty feet, took up the fallen 
woman, and contrived to save her. She 
was terribly mutilated, and remained a 
sad disfigured cripple till death, but Sir 
Rupert nursed her with unwearied zeal. 
From this story the cliff received its name. 


Rush. Not worth arush. Worthless. 
The allusion is to the practice of strewing 
floors with rushes before carpets were 
invented. Distinguished guests had 
clean fresh rushes, but those of inferior 
grade had either the rushes which had 
been already used by their superiors, or 
none at all. The more modern expres- 
sion is ‘‘ Not worth a straw.”’ 


“Strangers have green rushes, when daily 
guests are not worth a rush,”—Lilly : Sappho and 
PRAM _-. 


Rush-bearing Sunday 


1086 


Ryot 


Friar Rush.  Will-o’-the-Wisp; a 
strolling demon, who once on a time got 
admittance into a monastery as ascullion, 
and played the monks divers pranks. 
(See Fr1ar’s LANTHORN.) 


Rush-bearing Sunday. A Sunday, 
generally near the time of the festival of 
the saint to whom the church is dedi- 
cated, when anciently it was customary 
to renew the rushes with which the 
church floor was strewed. The festival 
is still observed at Ambleside, Westmore- 
land, on the last Sunday in July, the 
church being dedicated to St. Anne, 
whose day is July 26. The present 
custom is to make the festival a flower 
Sunday, with rushes and flowers formed 
into fanciful devices, The preceding 
Saturday is a holiday, being the day 
when the old rushes were removed, 


Rush’van, The angel who opens and 
shuts the gates of Paradise or Al Janat. 
(The Koran.) 


Ruskine’se (3 syl.). Words and 
phrases introduced by Ruskin, or coined 
ἃ la Ruskin, The word is used in Zhe 
Times :— 

“Such writers as Ruskin and Carlyle have made 
for themselves technical terms, words, and 
phrases ; some of which will be incorporated into 
the language .. . while others may remain em- 
blems of Ruskinese and Carlylism.”— June 11, 
1509. 


Russ. The Russian language; ἃ 
Russian. 
Rus’sel. A common name given to 


a fox, from its russet colour. 
* Dann Russel, the fox, stert up at oones, 
And by the garget hente Chaunteclere 
And on his bak toward the wood him bere.” 
Chaucer: The Nonne Prestes Tale. 
Russia. ‘‘ Great Russia’’ is Muscovy. 
‘“White ov Little Russia’’ is that part 
acquired in 1654 by Alexei Mikalowitch, 
including Smolensk. The emperor is 
called the ‘‘Czar of All the Russias.”’ 
(See Buack Russia.) 


Rus’sian. The nickname of a Rus- 
sian is ‘‘a Bear,’’ or the ‘ Northern 
Bear.”’ 


Rustam. The Deev-bend and Persian 
Her’cules, famous for his victory over 
the white dragon named Asdeey’. He 
was the son of Zal, prince of Sedjistan. 
The exploits attributed to him must have 
been the aggregate of exploits performed 
by numerous persons of the same name. 
His combat for two days with Prince 
Isfendiar is a favourite subject with the 
Persian poets. The name of his horse 
was Reksh. Matthew Arnold’s poem, 
Sohrab and Rustam, gives an account of 


Rustam fighting with and killing his son 
Sohrab. 


Rusty. He turns rusty. Like a rusty 
bolt, he sticks and will not move. 


Rusty-Fusty. That odour and filth 
which accumulates on things and in 
places not used. 

“Then from the butchers we bought Jamb and 
sheepe, 

Beer from the alehouse, and a broome to sweepe 

Our cottage, that for want of use was musty, 

And most extremely rusty-fusty dusty.” 

Taylor: Workes, il. 24. 

Ruyde’ra. The duenna of Belerma. 
She had seven daughters, who wept so 
bitterly at the death of Durandarte, that 
Merlin, out of pity, turned them into 
lakes or estuaries, (Don Quixote, pt. ii. 
bk. ii. ch. 6.) 


Ry. <A Stock Exchange expression 
for any sharp or dishonest practice. It 
originated in an old stock-jobber, who 
had practised upon a young man, and, 
being compelled to refund, wrote on the 
cheque, ‘‘ Please to pay to R. Y.” etc., 
in order to ayoid direct evidence of the 
transaction. 


Rye-house Plot. A conspiracy to 
assassinate Charles II. and his brother 
James on their way from Newraarket. 
As the house in which the king was 
lodging accidentally caught fire, the 
royal party left eight days sooner than 
they had intended, and the plot mis- 
carried. It was called the Rye House 
Plot because the conspirators met at the 
Rye House Farm, in Hertfordshire. 
(1683.) 

Rykell (Join). 
tour in the reign of Heury V. 
TREGETOUR. ) 


““ Maister John Rykell sometime tregitour 
Of noble Henry, kinge of Englande, 
And of France the mighty conquerour.” 
John Lidgate: Dance of Macabre. 
Rykelot. A magpie (?); a little rook. 
The German roche, Anglo-Saxon hve, 
seem to be cognate words. The last 
syllable is a diminutive. 


Rymar (Jf. Robert). Poet at the Spa. 
(Sir Walter Scott: St. Ronan’s Well.) 


Ryme. The Frost giant, the enemy 
of the elves and fairies. At the end of 
the world this giant is to be the pilot of 
the ship Naglefare. (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

Ryot. A tenant in India who pays a 
usufruct for his occupation. _The Serip- 
ture parable of the husbandmen refers 
to such a tenure; the lord sent for his 
rent, which was not money but fruits, 


A celebrated trege- 
(See 


Ryparographer 


1087 


Sable 


and the husbandmen stoned those who 
were sent, refusing to pay their ‘‘lord.”’ 
Ryots have an hereditary and perpetual 
right of occupancy so long as they pay 
the usufruct, but if they refuse or neglect 
payment may be turned away. 


Ryparographer (Greek). So Pliny 
calls Pyri‘cus the painter, because he 
confined himself to the drawing of ridi- 
culous and gross pictures, in which he 
greatly excelled. Rabelais was the ry- 
parographer of wits. (Greek, ruparos, 
toul, nasty.) 


Rython. A giant of Bretagne, slain 
by King Arthur. 
“Rython, the mighty giant slain 


By his good brand, relieved Bretagne.” _ 
Sir Walter Scott: Bridalof Triermain, ii. 11. 


5. 


5. Yow have crossed your S (French). 
You have cheated me in your account; 
you have charged me pounds where you 
ought to have charged shillings, or shil- 
lings where you ought to have charged 
pence. 
(= s) stood for sous or pence, and / for 
francs. To cross your / meant therefore 
to turn it fraudulently into καὶ 


S.P.Q.R. Senatus Populus Que Ro- 
manus (the Roman Senate and People). 
Letters inscribed on the standards of 
ancient Rome, 


5.5. Collar. The collar consists of a 
series of the letter S in gold, either linked 
together or set in close order, on a blue 
and white ribbon. (See Cortar oF 8.8.) 

“On the Wednesday preceding Easter, 1465, as 
Sir Anthony was speaking to his royal sister, on 
his knees, all the ladies of the court gathered 
round him, and bound to his left kneea band of 
gold, adorned with stones fashioned into the 
letters S.S. (sowvenance, or remembrance) and to 
this band was suspended an enamelled Forget- 
ne-not.”—£ord Lytton : Last ofthe Barons, bk.iv.5. 

5.5.5. (Latin stra’ tem super stratum). 
Layer over layer. 


S.T.P. stands for Sancte Theologie 
Professor. Professor is the Latin for 
Doctor.. D.D.—i.e. Divinity Doctor or 
Doctor of Divinity—is the English 
equivalent of the Latin 8.T.P. 


Saadia (4/). <A cuirass of silver 
which belonged to King Saul, and was 
lent to David when he was armed for the 
encounter with Goliath. This cuirass fell 
into the hands of Mahomet, being part 
of the property confiscated from the Jews 
on their expulsion from Medi‘na. 


In the old French accounts, 7) 


Sabbath Day’s Journey (Exodus 
xvi. 29; Acts i. 12), with the Jews was 
not to exceed the distance between the 
ark and the extreme end of the camp. 
This was 2,000 cubits, somewhat short 
ot an English mile. (Exodus xvi. 29; 
Acts 1. 12.) 

“Up to the hill by Hebron, seat of giants old, 


No journey of a Sabbath Day, and loaded so.” 
Milton: Samson Agonistes, 


Sabbath of Sound (Zhe). Silence. 


Sabbath’ians. The disciples of Sab- 
bathais Zwi, the most remarkable 
‘*Messiah’’ of modern times. At the 
age of fifteen he had mastered the 
Talmud, and at eighteen the Cabbala. 
(1641-1677. ) 


Sabbat‘ical Year. One year in 
seven, when all land with the ancient 
Jews was to lie fallow for twelve months. 
This law was founded on Exodus xxiii. 
10, οἷο. ; Leviticus xxv. 2-7; Deutero- 
nomy xv. 1-11. 


Sabe’ans. An ancient religious sect ; 
so called from Sabi, son of Seth, who, 
with his father and brother Enoch, lies 
buried in the Pyramids. The Sabeans 
worshipped one God, but approached 
Him indirectly through some created 
representative, such as the sun, moon, 
stars, ete. Their system is called Sa- 
beanism or the Sabean faith. The Arabs 
were chiefly Sabeans before their con- 
version. 


Sabe’anism. The worship of the sun, 
moon, and host of heaven. (Chaldee, 
tzaba, a host.) 


Sa’beism means baptism—that is, the 
‘‘religion of many baptisms; ’’ founded 
by Boudasp or Bodhisattva, a wise Chal- 
dean. This sect was the root of the 
party called ‘‘ Christians of St. John;’’ 
and by the Arabs Μὲ Mogtasila. 


Sabellians. A religious sect; so 
called from Sabellius, a Libyan priest of 
the third century. They believed in the 
unity of God, and said that the Trinity 
merely expressed three relations or states 
of one and the same God. 


Sa’biens is the Aramean equivalent 
of the word ‘‘ Baptists.’’ (See below.) 

“The sects of Hemerobaptists, Baptists, and 
Sabiens (the Mogtasila of the Arabian writers) 
in the second century filled Syria, Palestine, and 
Babylonia.”’—Renan: Life of Jesus, chap. xii. 

Sable denotes—of the ages of man, 
the last ; of attributes, wisdom, prudence, 
integrity, singleness of mind; of dards, 
the raven or crow; of elements, the 
earth ; of metals, iron or lead; of 


sable 


1088 


Sack 


planets, Saturn; of precious stones, the 
diamond ; of trees, the olive; of aximals, 
a sort of weasel. 


Sable black. Expressed in heraldry 
by horizontal lines crossing perpendicular 
ones. 

In English heraldry escutcheons are varied by 
seven culuurs ; foreign heralds add two more. 

A suit of sables. A rich courtly dress. 
By the statute of apparel (24 Henry 
VIII. c. 13) it is ordained that none 
under the degree of an earl shall use 
sables. Bishop tells us that a thousand 
ducats were sometimes given for a ‘‘ face 
of sables” (Blossoms, 1577). Ben Jonson 
says, ‘‘ Would you not laugh to meet a 
great councillor of state in a flat cap, 
with trunk-hose . . . and yond haber: 
dasher in a velvet gown trimmed with 
sables?”? (Discoveries. 

“Solong? Nay, then, let the devil wear black, 
for I'll have a suit of sables.” — Shakespeure: 
TTamlet, iii. 2. 

Sablonniére (Ja). The sand-pits. 
So the Tuileries were called to the four- 
teenth century. Towards the end of 
that century ti/es were made there, but 
the sand-pits were first called the Tile- 
works or Tuileries in 1416. At the 
beginning of the sixteenth century, 
Nicolas de Neuville built a house in the 
vicinity, which he called the ‘‘ Hétel des 
Tuileries.’? This property was purchased 
in 1518 by Frangois I. for his mother. 


Sabra. Daughter of Ptolemy, King 
of Egypt, rescued by St. George from 
the fangs of the giant, and ultimately 
married to her deliverer. She is repre- 
sented as pure in mind, saintly in char- 
acter, a perfect citizen, daughter, and 
wife. Her three sons, born at a birth, 
were named Guy, Alexander, and David. 
Sabra died from the ‘‘ pricks of a thorny 
brake.”’ 


Sabreur. Le beau sabreur [the hand- 
some or famous swordsman]. Joachim 
Murat (1767-1815). 


Sabri’na (Latin). The Severn. In 
Milton’s Comus we are told she is the 
daughter of Locrine ‘‘that had the 
sceptre from his father, Brute,’’? and 
was living in concubinage with Estrildis. 
His queen, Guendolen, vowed vengeance 
against Estrildis and her daughter, 
gathered an army together, and over- 
threw Locrine by the river Sture. 
Sabrina fled and jumped into the river. 
Nereus took pity on her, and made her 
““goddess of the Severn,’”? which is 
poetically called Sabri’na. 


— 


Saccharine Frinciple in Things 
(The). Mr. Emerson means by this 
phrase, the adaptation of living beings 
to their conditions—the becoming callous 
to pains that have to be borne, and the 
acquirement of liking for labours that 
are necessary. 


Saccharis’sa. A name bestowed 
by Waller on Lady Dorothea Sidney, 
eldest daughter of the Earl of Leicester, 
for whose hand he was an unsuccessful 
suitor, for she married the Earl of Sun- 
derland. 


“The Earl of Leicester, father of Algernon 
Sidney, the patriot,and of Waller's Saccharissa, 
built for himself a stately house at the north 
corner of a square plot of ‘Lammas land’ be- 
longing to the parish of St. Martin's, which plot 
henceforth became known to Londoners as 
‘Leicester Fields.’"’—Cassell’s Magazine: London 
Legends, ii. 

Saccharissa turns to Joan (Fenton : The 
Platonic Spell). The gloss of novelty 
being gone, that which was once thought 
unparalleled proves only ordinary. Fen- 
ton says before marriage many a woman 
seems a Saccharissa, faultless in make and 
wit, but scarcely is ‘‘ half Hymen’s taper 
wasted ’’ when the ‘spell is dissolved,”’ 
and ‘‘ Saccharissa turns to Joan.” 


Sacco Benedetto or Saco Bendi'to 
[the blessed sack or cloak]. A yellow 
garment with two crosses on it, and 
painted over with flames and devils. In 
this linen robe persons condemned by 
the Spanish Inquisition were arrayed 
when they went to the stake. The 
word sack was used for any loose upper 
garment hanging down the back trom 
the shoulders ; hence ‘‘ sac-friars’’ or 
fratrés sacc'ati. 

Sachem. A chief among some of the 
North American Indian tribes. 


Sachentege (3 syl.). An instrument 
of torture used in Stephen’s reign, 
and thus described in the Anglo-Saxon 
Chronicle: ‘‘ It was fastened to a beam, 
having a sharp iron to go round the 
throat and neek, so that the person 
tortured could in no wise sit, lie, nor 
sleep, but that he must at all times bear 
all the iron.” 


Sack. Any dry wine, as sherry sack, 
Madeira sack, Canary sack, and Palm 
sack. (A corruption of the French sec, 
dry. ) 

Sack. Abag. According to tradition, 
it was the last word uttered before the 
tongues were confounded at Babel. 
(Saxon, s@c; German, sack; Welsh, sach; 
Trish, sac; French, sae ; Latin, saccus ; 

talian,-sacco; Spanish, saeco; Greek, 


Sack Race 


1089 


Sacrifice 


— 


sakkos ; Hebrew, sak; Swedish, sdck ; 
etc., etc.) 

To get the sack or To give one the sack. 
To get discharged by one’s employer. 
Mechanics travelling in quest of work 
carried their implements in a bag or 
sack; when discharged, they received 
back the bag that they might replace in 
it their tools, and seek a job elsewhere. 
Workmen still often carry a bag of 
tools, but so much is done by machines 
that bags of tools are decreasing. 

The Sultan puts into a sack, and 
throws into the Bosphorus, any one of 
his harem he wishes out of the way. 

There are many cognate phrases, as 
To give one the bag, and Get the bag, which 
is merely substitutional. To receive the 
canvas is a very old expression, referring 
to the substance of which the sack or 
bag was made. The French Tiousser vos 
quilles (pack up your ninepins or toys) 
is another idea, similar to ‘‘ Pack up 
your tatters and follow the drum.’’ (See 
CASHIER.) 


Sack Race (A). A village sport in 
which each runner is tied up to the neck 
in asack. In some cases the candidates 
have to make short leaps, in other cases 
they are at liberty to run as well as the 
limits of the sack will allow them. 


Sackbut. A corruption of saimbuca. 
(Spanish, sacabuche ; Portuguese, saque- 
buxo ; French, saquebute; Latin, sacra 
buccina, sacred trumpet.) 


Sack’erson. The famous bear kept 
at “‘ Paris Garden’’ in Shakespeare’s 
time. (See Paris GARDEN.) 


Sacrament. Literally, ‘“‘a military 
oath”? taken by the Roman soldiers not 
to desert their standard, turn their 
back on the enemy, or abandon their 
general. We also, in the sacrament 
of baptism, take a military oath ‘‘to 
fight manfully under the banner of 
Christ.’”’ The early Christians used the 
wortl to signify ‘‘ a sacred mystery,’’ and 
hence its application to the Baptism and 
Eucharist, and in the Roman Cathoiic 
Church to marriage, confirmation, etc. 

The five sacraments are Confirmation, 
Penance, Orders, Matrimony, and Ex- 
treme Unction. (See Thirty-nine Articles, 
Article xxxy.) 

The seven sacraments are Baptism, 
Confirmation, the Eucharist, Penance, 
fan Matrimony, and Extreme Unc- 

ion. 

The two sacraments of the Protestant 
Church are Baptism and the Lord’s 
Supper. es 


69 


Sacramenta'rians. Those who be- 
lieve that no change takes place in the 
eucharistic elements after consecration, 
but that the bread and wine are simply 
emblems of the body and blood of Christ. 
They were a party among the Reformers 
who separated from Luther. 


Sacred Anchors, in Greek vessels, 
were never let go till the ship was in the 
extremity of danger. 


Sacred City. (See Hoty Crry.) 


Sacred Heart. The ‘‘Feast of the 
Sacred Heart of Jesus”’ owes its origin 
to a French nun, named Mary Margaret 
Alacoque, of Burgundy, who practised 
devotion to the Saviour’s heart in conse- 
quence of a vision. The devotion was 
ΤΣ μὸν by Pope Clement XII. in 
1732. 


Sacred Isle, or Holy Island. Ireland 
was so called because of its many saints, 
and Guernsey for its many monks. The 
island referred to by Thomas Moore in 
his Ivish Melodies (No. I1.) is Scattery, 
to which St. Sena’nus retired, and vowed 
that no woman should set foot thereon. 

“Oh, haste and leave this sacred isle, 
Unholy bark, ere morning smile.” 
St. Senanus and the Lady. 

Enhallow (from the Norse Lyinhalga, 
Holy Isle) is the name of a small island 
in the Orkney group, where cells of the 
Trish anchorite fathers are said still to 
exist, 


Sacred War. 

(1) A war undertaken by the Am- 
phictyon'ic League against the Cirrhzeans, 
in defence of Delphi. (B.c, 594-587.) 

(2) A war waged by the Athenians for 
the restoration of Delphi to the Pho’cians, 
from whom it had been taken. (B.c. 
448-447.) 

(3) A war in which the Phocians, who 
had seized Delphi, were conquered by 
Philip of Macedon. (8.σ. 346.) 


Sacred Way (1716) in ancient Rome, 
was the street where Romulus and 
Tatius (the Sabine) swore mutual alli- 
ance. It does not mean the ‘holy 
street,’’ but the ‘‘ street of the oath.”’ 


Sacred Weed (Zhe). Vervain. (See 
HERBA SACRA.) 


Sacrifice. Never sacrifice a white cock, 
was one of the doctrines of Pythagoras, 
because it was sacred to themoon. The 
Greeks went further, and said, ‘‘ Nourish 
a cock, but sacrifice it not,’? for all 
cockerels were sacred either to the sun or 
moon, as they announced the hours, The 


Sacrifice 


1090 


Saga 


cock was sacred also to the goddess of 
wisdom, and to Escula’pios, the god of 
health; it therefore represented time, 
wisdom, and health, none of which are 
ever to be sacrificed. (See Lamblichus : 
Protreptics, symbol xviii. ) 


Sacrifice to the Graces is to render 
oneself agreeable by courteous conduct, 
suavity of manners, and fastidiousness of 
dress. The allusion is to the three 
Graces of classic mythology. 


Sa'ering Bell. The little bell rung 
to give notice that the ‘‘ Host”’ is ap- 
proaching. Nowcalled sanctus bell, from 
the words ‘‘ Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus, 
dominus, Deus Sabaoth, pronounced by 
the priest. (French, sacrer; Latin, 
sacey.) 

“He heard a little sacring hell ring to the eleva- 
tion of a to-morrow mass,” —Reginald Scott : Dis- 
covery of Witchcraft (584). 

“The sacring of the kings of France.’—Temple. 

Sa’cripant. <A braggart, a noisy 
hectorer. Heis introduced by Alexander 
Passoni, in a mock-heroic poem called 
The Rape of the Bucket. 

Sa'cripant (in Orlando Furioso), King 
of Circassia, and a Saracen. 


Sad Bread (Latin, pais gravis). 
Heavy bread, ill-made bread. Shake- 
speare calls it “ distressful bread ’’—not 
the bread of distress, but the panis gravis 
or ill-made bread eaten by the poor. 


Sad Dog (He’sa). Un triste sujet. A 
playful way of saying a man is a 
debauchee. 


Sadah. The sixteenth night of the 
month Bayaman. (Persian mythology.) 


Sadda. One of the sacred books of 
the Guebres or Parsis containing a sum- 
mary of the Zend-Avesta. 


Sadder and a Wiser Man (4). 
“ A sadder and a wiser man 
He rose the morrow morn.” 
Coleridge: The Ancient Mariner. 

Saddle. Set the saddle on the right 
horse. Lay the blame on those who de- 
serve it. 

Lose the horse and win the saddle. (See 
Lose. ) 

Saddletree (If. Bartoline). _ The 
learned saddler. (Sir Valter Scott : The 
Heart of Midlothian.) 


Sad’ducees. A Jewish party which 
denied the existence of spirits and angels, 
and, of course, disbelieved in the resur- 
rection of the dead; so called from Sadoce 
(righteous man), thought to be the name 
of a priest or rabbi some three centuries 
before the birth of Christ. As they did 


not believe in future punishments, they 


punished offences with the utmost 
severity. 
Sadi orSaadi. A Persian poet styled 


the ‘nightingale of thousand songs,’’ 
and ‘‘one of the four monarchs of elo- 
quence.’’ His poems are the Gulistan 
or Garden of Roses, the Bostan or Garden 
of Fruits, and the Pend-Nameh, a moral 
poem. He is admired for his sententious 
march, (1184-1263.) 


Sadler’s Wells (London). There was 
a well at this place called Holy Well, 
once noted for ‘‘its extraordinary cures.’’ 
The priests of Clerkenwell Priory used to 
boast of its virtues. At the Reformation 
it was stopped up, and was wholly for- 
gotten till 1683, when a Mr. Sadler, in 
digging gravel for his garden, accident- 
ally discovered it again. Hence the 
name. In 1765 Mr. Rosoman converted 
Sadler’s garden into a theatre. 


Sadlerian Lectures. Lectures on 
Algebra delivered in the University of 
Cambridge, and founded in 1710 by Lady 
Sadler. 

Sezehrimnir [Sza-rim'-ner]. The boar 
served to the godsin Valhalla every even- 
ing; by next morning the part eaten 
was miraculously restored. (Scandina- 
vian mythology.) 


Safa, in Arabia, according to Arabian 
legend, is the hill on which Adam and 
Eve came together, after having been 
parted for two hundred years, during 
which time they wandered homeless over 
the face of the earth. 


Safety Matches. In 1847 Schrotter, 
an Austrian chemist, discovered that red 
phosphorus gives off no fumes, and is 
virtually inert; but being mixed with 
chlorate of potash under slight pressure 
it explodes with violence. In 1855 Herr 
Bottger, of Sweden, put the red phos- 
phorus on the doz and the phosphorus on 
the match, so that the match must be 
rubbed on the box to bring the two to- 
gether. (See PROMETHEANS, LUCIFERS:) 


Saffron. He hath slept in a bed of 
saffron. In Latin dormivit in sacco croc, 
meaning he has a very light heart, in 
reference to the exhilarating effects of 


saffron, 
“ With genial joy to warm his soul, 
Helen mixed saffron in the bowl,’ 


Saffron Veil. The Greek and Latin 
brides wore a flammeum or yellow veil, 


which wholly enveloped them. (See 
SAOPHRON. ) 
Saga (plural Sagas). The northern 


| mythological and historical traditions, 


Sagan 


chiefly compiled in the twelfth and three 
following centuries. The most remark- 
able are those of Lodbrok, Hervara, Vil- 
kina, Volsunga, Blomsturvalla, Ynglinga, 
Olaf Tryggva-Sonar, with those of Joms- 
vikingia and of Knytlinga (which contain 
the legendary history of Norway and 
Denmark), those of Sturlinga and Eryr- 
biggia (which contain the legendary 
history of Iceland), the Heims- Kringla 
and New Edda, due to Snorro-Sturleson. 

All these legends are short, abrupt, 
concise, full of bold metaphor and graphic 
descriptions. 


Sa’gan of Jerusalem, in Dryden’s 
Absalom and Achitophel, is designed for 
Dr. Compton, Bishop of London; he 
was son of the Earl of Northampton, 
who fell in the royal cause at the battle 
of Hopton Heath. The Jewish sagan 
was the vicar of the sovereign pontiff. 
According to tradition, Moses was 
Aaron’s sagan. 

*. The Sagan was the vicar of the Jewish pon- 
tiff. Thus they called Moses “ Aaron's Sagan.” 


Sages (The Seven). (See WiszE MEN.) 


Sagitta’rius, the archer, represents 
the Centaur Chiron, who at death was 
converted into the constellation so called. 
(See next article.) 


Sag‘ittary. A terrible archer, half 
beast and half man, whose eyes sparkled 
like fire, and struck dead like lightning. 
He is introduced into the Trojan armies 
by Guido da Colonna, 

“The dreadful Sagittary 
Appals our numbers.” 
Shakespeare : Troilus and Cressida, v. 5. 

Sag’/ramour le De’sirus. A knight 
of the Round Table, introduced in the 
Morte @ Arthur, Lancelot du Lac, ete. 


Sahib (in Bengalee, Saheb). 
our Mr., or rather to such gentlemen as 
we term ‘ Esquires.’’ Sahiba is the 
lady. (Arabic for lord, master.) 


Sail. You may hoist sail. Cut your 
stick, be off. Maria saucily says to 
Viola, dressed in man’s apparel— 

© Will you hoist sail, sir? Here lies your way.” 
—Shakespeare: Twelfth Night, i. 5. 

To set sail, To start on a voyage. 

To strike sail. (See STRIKE.) 


Sail before the Wind (70). To 
prosper, to go on swimmingly, to meet 
with great success, to go as smoothly and 
rapidly as a ship before the wind. 


Sailing under False Colours. Pre- 
tending to be what you are not. The 
allusion is to pirate vessels, which hoist 
any colours to elude detection. 


1091 


Equalto | 


St. Bees’ College 


————— 


Sailing within the Wind or Sailing 
close to the Wind. Going to the very 
verge of propriety, or acting so as just 
to escape the letter of the law. The 
phrase, of course, is nautical. 


“The jokes [of our predecessors] might have 
been broader than medern manners allow, . 
but ... the masher sails nearer the wind than 
did his ruder forefathers.”"—Nineteenth Century, 
November, 1892, p. 795. 

“Ea defended himself by declaring that he did 
not tell Hasisadra anything ; he only sent her a 
dream. This was undoubtedly sailing very near 
the wind.’—Nineteenth Century, June, 1891, p. 911. 

Sailor King. William IV. of Eng- 
land, who entered the navy as midship- 
man in 1779, and was made Lord High 


Admiral in 1827. (1765, 1830-1837.) 


Saint. Kings and princes so called :— 

Edward the Martyr (961, 975-978). 

Edward the Confessor (1004, 1042- 
1086). 

Eric IX. of Sweden ( *, 1155-1161). 

Ethelred I., King of Wessex ( *, 866- 
871). 

Eugenius I., pope ( *, 654-657). 

Felix I., pope ( ἢ, 269-274). 

Ferdinand III. of Castile and Leon 
(1200, 1217-1252). 

Julius I., pope ( *, 337-352). 

Kang-he, second of the Manchoo 
dynasty of China, who assumed the 
name of Chin-tsou-jin (1661-1722). 

Lawrence Justinia’ni, Patriarch of 
Venice (1380, 1451-1465). 

Leo IX., pope (1002, 1049-1054). 

Louis IX. of France (1215, 1226- 
1270). 

Olaus II. of Norway, brother of 
Harald II1., called ‘‘ St. Olaf the Double 
Beard’’ (984, 1026-1030). 

Stephen I. of Hungary (979, 997- 
1038). 

Dom Fernando, son of King John of 
Portugal, was, with his brother Henry, 
taken prisoner by the Moors at the siege 
of Tangier. The Portuguese general 
promised to give Ceuta for their ransom, 
and left Fernando in prison as their 
surety. The Portuguese government 
refused to ratify the condition, and 
Fernando was left in the hands of the 
Moors till he died. For this patriotic 
act he is regarded as a saint, and his 
day is June 5th. His brother Edward 
was king at the time. (1402-1443.) 


St. Bees’ College (Cumberland), 
situated on the bay formed by St. Bees’ 
Head, founded by Dr. Law, Bishop of 
Chester, in 1816. St. Bees’ was s0 
called from a nunnery founded here in 
650, and dedicated to the Irish saint 
named Bega. A ‘‘man of wax” is a 
‘* Bees’ man.”’ 


St. Cecilia 


St. Cecilia, born of noble Roman 
parents, and fostered from her cradle 
in the Christian faith, married Valirian. 
One day she told him that an angel, 
‘‘ whether she was awake or asleep, was 
ever beside her,’’ Valirian requested to 
see this angel, and she said he must be 
baptised first. Valirian was baptised and 
suffered martyrdom. When Cecilia was 
brought before the Prefect Alma’chius, 
and refused to worship the Roman 
deities, she was ‘‘shut fast in a bath 
kept hot both night and day with great 
fires,’’ but ‘‘ felt of it no woe.’’? Alma- 
chius then sent an executioner to cut off 
her head, ‘‘ but for no manner of chance 
could he smite her fair neck in two.” 
Three days she lingered with her neck 
bleeding, preaching Christ and Him 
crucified all the while ; then she died, 
and Pope Urban buried the body. 
‘“‘Her house the church of St. Cecily 
is hight’? unto this day. (Chaucer: 
Secounde Nonnes Tale.) (See CECILIA.) 

* Towards the close of the seven- 
teenth century an annual musical festival 
was held in Stationers’ Hall in honour of 
St. Cecilia, 


St. Cuthbert’s Duck. ‘The eider 
duck. 


St. Distaff. (Sze DIsTAFr.) 


St. Elmo, called by the French Sf. 
Elme. ‘The electric light seen playing 
about the masts of ships in stormy 
weather. (See CASTOR AND POLLUX.) 

“ And sudden breaking on their raptured sight, 


Appeared the splendour of St. Elmo’s light.’ 
Hoole’s Furioso, book ix. 


St. Francis. (See FRANCIS.) 


St. George’s Cross, in heraldry, is a 
Greek cross gules upon a field argent. 
The field is represented in the Union 
Jack by a narrow fimbriation. It is the 
distinguishing badge of the British navy. 

St. George's flag is a smaller flag, 
without the Union Jack. 


St. John Long. An illiterate quack, 
who professed to have discovered a 
liniment which had the power of dis- 
tinguishing between disease and health. 
The body was rubbed with it, and if 
irritation appeared it announced secret 
disease, which the quack undertook to 
cure. He was twice tried for man- 
slaughter: once in 1830, when he was 
fined for his treatment of Miss Cashan, 
who died; and next in 1831, for the 
death of Mrs. Lloyd. Being acquitted, 
he was driven in triumph from the Old 
Bailey in a nobleman’s carriage, amid 
the congratulations of the aristocracy. 


1092 


St. Monday 


St. John is pronounced Sin'jin, as 
in that verse of Pope’s— 
“ Awake, my St. John! leave all meaner things 
To low ambition and the pride of kings.” 
Essay on Man. 
St. John’s Eve, St. Mark’s Eve, and 
Allhallow Even, are times when poets 
say the forms of all such persons as 
are about to die in the ensuing twelve 
months make their solemn entry into 
the churches of their respective parishes. 
On these eves all sorts of goblins are 
about. Brand says, ‘‘On the Eve of 
John the Baptist’s nativity bonfires are 
made to purify the air (vol. i. p. 305). 


St. Johnstone’s Tippet. A halter; 
so called from Johnstone the hangman. 

“Sent to heaven wi’ a St. Johnstone's tippit 
about my hause.”—Sir Walter Scott: Old Mortality, 
chap, Vill. 

St. Leger Sweepstakes. The St. 
Leger race was instituted in 1776, by 
Colonel St. Leger, of Park Hill, near 
Doncaster, but was not called the ‘‘St. 
Leger ”’ till two years afterwards, when 
the Marquis of Rockingham’s horse 
Allabaculia won the race. (See DERBY, 
LEGER.) 


St. Leon became possessed of the 
elixir of life, and the power of trans- 
muting the baser metals into gold, but 
these acquisitions only brought him in- 
creased misery. (/Villiam Goodwin: St 
Leon.) 


St. Lundi (Za). St. Monday. Mon- 
day spent by workmen in idleness. One 
of the rules enjoined by the Sheffield 
unionists was that no work should be 
permitted to be done on a Monday by 
any of their members. 


St. Michael’s Chair. The projecting 
stone lantern of a tower erected on St. 
Michael’s Mount, Cornwall. It is said 
that the rock received its name from a 
religious house built to commemorate 
the apparition of St. Michael on one of 
its craggy heights. (See MICHAEL.) 


St. Monday. A holiday observed by 
journeyman shoemakers and other in- 
terior mechanics, and well-to-do mer- 
chants. 

In the Journal of the Folk-love Society, 
vol. i. p. 245, we read that, ‘‘ While 
Cromwell’s army lay encamped at Perth, 
one of his zealous partisans, named 
Monday, died, and Cromwell offered a 
reward for the best lines on his death. 
A shoemaker of Perth brought the 
following, which so pleased Cromwell 
that he not only gave the promised 
reward, but made also a decree that 


St. Simonism 


1093 


Salacacabia 


shoemakers should be allowed to make 
Monday a standing holiday. 
“ Blessed be the Sabbath Day, 
And cursed be worldly pelf ; ° 
Tuesday will begin the week, 
Since Monday’s hanged himself.” 

St. Si’monism. The social and 
political system of St. Simon. He pro- 
posed the institution of a European 
parliament, to arbitrate in all matters 
affecting Europe, and the establishment 
of a social hierarchy based on capacity 
and labour. He was led to his “ social 
system’’ by the apparition of Charle- 
magne, which appeared to him one 
night in the Luxembourg, where he was 
suffering a temporary imprisonment. 
(1760-18235.) 

~ For other saints, sce the names. 


St. Stephen’s. The Houses of Par- 
liament are so called, because, at one 
time, the Commons used to sit in St. 
Stephen’s Chapei. 


St. Stephen’s Loaves. Stones. 


“Having said this, he took up one of St. 
Stephen’s loaves, and was going to hit him with 
it.’—Rabelais: l’antagruel, v. 8. 

St. Thomas’s Castle. The peniten- 
fiary in St. Thomas’s parish, Oxford, 
where women of frail morals are kept 
under surveillance. 


St. Wilfrid’s Needle, often called 
“St. Winifred’s Needle.’’ In the crypt 
of Ripon Minster is a passage regarded 
as a test of chastity. 


Saints. City of Saints. 
City and Houy Cry.) 


Sai'vas (2 syl.). Worshippers of Siva, 
one of the three great Indian sects ; they 
are at present divided into— 

(1) Dandins or staff-bearers, the Hindu 
mendicants ; so called because they carry 
a danda or small staff, with a piece of 
red cloth fixed on it. In this piece of 
cloth the Brahmanical cord is enshrined. 

(2) Yogins. Followers of Yoga, who 
practise the most difficult austerities. 

(3) Lingavats, who wear the Linga 
emblem on some part of their dress. 

(4) Paramahansas, ascetics who go 
naked, aud never express any want or 
wish. 

(5) Aghorins, who eat and drink what- 
ever is given them, even ordure and 
carrion. 

(6) Urdhaba'hus, who extend one or 
both arms over their head till they be- 
come rigidly fixed in this position. 

(7) Akas'mukhins, who hold up their 
faces to the sky till the muscles of ‘the 
neck become contracted, 


(See under 


Saker. A piece of light artillery. 
The word is borrowed from the saker 
hawk. (See Facon.) 


“ The cannon, blunderbuss, and saker, 
He was the inventor of and maker.” | 
Butler: Hudibras,i. 2. 


Sakhrat [Sak-rah’]. Asacred stone, 
one grain of which endows the possessor 
with miraculous powers. It is of an 
emerald colour ; its reflection makes the 
sky blue. (Mahometan mythology.) 


Sak’ta. A worshipper of a Sakti, or 
female deity, in Hindu mythology. The 
Saktas are divided into two branches, 
the Dakshin’acha’rins and the Vam’acha’- 
rins (the followers of the right-hand and 
left-hand ritual). The latter practise the 
grossest impurities. (Sanskrit, sakti, 
power, energy.) 


Sa-kun'tala. Daughter of St. Vis’- 
wa'mita, and Menaka a water-nymph. 
Abandoned by her parents, she was 
brought up by a hermit. One day 
King Dushyanta came to the hermitage 
during a hunt, and persuaded Sakuntala 
to marry him, and in due time a son 
was born. When the boy was six years 
old, she took it to its father, and the 
king recognised his wife by a ring 
which he had given her. She was 
now publicly proclaimed his queen, 
and Bharata, his son and heir, became 
the founder of the glorious race of the 
Bharatas. This story forms the plot 
of the celebrated drama of Kalida’sa, 
called Sakewntala, made known to us by 
Sir W. Jones. 


Sak’ya-Mu'ni. Sakya, the hermit, 
founder of Buddhism. 


Sal Prunella. A mixture of refined 
nitre and soda for sore throats. Prunella 
is a corruption of Brunelle, in French 
sel de brunelle, from the German breune 
(a sore throat), braune (the quinsy). 


Salacaca’bia or Salacac’aby of 
Apicius. An uneatable soup of great 
pretensions. King, in his Art of Cookery, 
gives the recipe of this soup: ‘‘ Bruise 
in a mortar parsley-seed, dried peneryal, 
dried mint, ginger, green coriander, 
stoned raisins, honey, vinegar, oil, and 
wine. Put them into a cacab/ulum, with 
three crusts of Pycentine bread, the flesh 
of a pullet, vestine cheese, pine-kernels, 
cucumbers, and dried onions, minced 
small; pour soup over all, garnish with 
snow, and serve up in the cacab’ulum.”’ 


“ At each end thereare dishes of the salacacabia 
of the Romans: one is made of parsley, penny- 
royal, cheese, pinetops, honey, vinegar, brine, 
eggs, cucumbers, onions, and hen-livers ; -the 
other is much the same as soup maigre.”"—Smollett: 
Peregrine Pickle, 


Salace 


1094 


Saliens 


Sal’ace (3 syl.). The sea, or rather 
the salt or briny deep; the wife of 
Neptune. 
© Triton, who boasts his high Neptunian race, 

Sprung from the god by Salace’s embrace.” | 

Camoens : Lusiad, book vi. 
Salad Days. Days of inexperience, 
when persons are very green. 
““My salad days, 
When I was green in judgment.” 
Shakespeare: Antony and Cleopatra, i. 5. 

A pen’orth of salad oil. A strapping; 
a castigation. It isa joke on All Fools’ 
Day to send one to the saddler’s for a 
““pen’orth of salad oil.’? The pun is 
between ‘‘ salad oil,”? as above, and the 
French avoir de la salade, ““ἴο be 
flogged.’’ The French salader and salade 
are derived from the salle or saddle on 
which schoolboys were at one time 
birched. A block for the purpose used to 
be kept in some of our public schools. 
Oudin translates the phrase ‘‘ Donner la 
salle ἃ un escolier’’ by *‘ Scopar un scolari 
innanzi ἃ tutti gli αἰέν.) (Recherches 
Italiennes et Frangoises, part ii. 508.) 


Salamander, in Egyptian hierogly- 
phics, is a human form pinched to death 
with the cold. (See UNDINEs.) 

Salamander. A sort of lizard, fabled 
to live in fire, which, however, it 
quenched by the chill of its body. Pliny 
tells us he tried the experiment once, 
but the creature was soon burnt to a 
powder. (Natural History, x. 67; xxix. 
4.) Salamanders are not uncommon, 
especially the spotted European kind 
(Greek, salamandria). 

Salamander, Francois I. of France 
adopted as his badge ‘‘a lizard in the 
midst of flames,’’ with the legend ‘‘ Nw- 
trisco et extinguo”? (‘I nourish and 
extinguish’’). The Italian motto from 
which this lezend was borrowed was, 
 Nudrisco il buono e spengo il reo”? (“1 
nourish the good and extinguish the 
bad’’). Fire purifies good metal, but 
consumes rubbish. (See ante.) 

Salamander. Anything of a fiery-red 
colour. Falstaff calls Bardolph’s nose 
“ἐᾷ, burning lamp,’’ ‘‘ a salamander,’’ 
and the drink that made such ‘‘a fiery 
meteor”’ he calls ‘‘ fire.’’ 

“T have maintained that salamander of yours 
with fire any time this two-and-thirty years.” 
—Shakespeare: 1 Henry 1V., iv. 3. 

Salamander’s Wool. Asbestos, a 
fibrous mineral, affirmed by the Tartars 
to be made ‘‘ of the root of a tree.”” It 
is sometimes called ‘‘mountain flax,’’ 
and is not combustible. 


SaYary. The salt rations. The 
Romans served out rations of salt and 


other necessaries to their soldiers and 
civil servants. The rations altogether 
were called by the general name of salt, ~ 
and when money was substituted for the 
rations the stipend went by the same 
name. (Latin, salarium, from sal, 
salt.) 


Salchichon. A huge Italian sausage. 
Thomas, Duke of Genoa, a boy of 
Harrow school, was so called, when he 
was thrust forward by General Prim as 
an ‘inflated candidate ” for the Spanish 
throne. 


Sale by the Candle. A species of 
auction, An inch of candle being lighted, 
he who made the bid as the candle gave 
its expiring wink was declared the buyer ; 
sometimes a pin is stuck in a candle, and 
the last bidder before the pin falls out is 
the buyer. 


Sa‘lem is Jireh-Salem, or Jerusalem. 


“ Melchisedec, King of Salem... being by in- 
terpretation ... King of peace.’”—Hebrews Vii. 
1,2 


Salic Law. The law so called is 
one chapter of the Salian code regarding 
succession to salie lands, which was 
limited to heirs male to the exclusion of 
females, chiefly because certain military 
duties were connected with the holding 
of those lands. In the fourteenth cen- 
tury females were excluded from the 
throne of France by the application of 
the Salic law to the succession of the 
crown. 

“ Which Salique, as I said, *twixt Elbe and Sala, 

Is at this day in Germany called Meisen,”’ 

Shakespeare: Henry V., i. 2. 

~ Philippe VI. of France, in order to 
raise money, exacted a tax on salt, 
called Gabelle, which was most un- 
popular and most unjustly levied. 
Edward III. called this miquitous tax 
“Philippe’s Salie law.” (Latin, sad, 
salt.) 


Saliens (Zhe). A college of twelve 
priests of Mars instituted by Numa. 
The tale is that a shield fell from 
heaven, and the nymph Egéria_ pre- 
dicted that wherever that shield was 
preserved the people would be the domi- 
nant people of the earth. To prevent 
the shield from being surreptitiously 
taken away, Numa had eleven others 
made exactly like it, and appointed 
twelve priests for guardians. Hvery 
year these young patricians promenaded 
the city, singing and dancing, and they 
finished the day: with a most sump- 
tuous banquet, insomuch that saliares 
cena became proverbial for a most 


Salient Angles 


1095 


sumptuous feast. The word ‘ saliens”’ 
means dancing. 


“Nunc est bibendum.., 
.. Dune Saliaribus 
Ornare pulvinar Deorum 
Tempus erat dapibus.” ἂν 
Horace: 1 Odes, xxxvii. 2-4, 


Salient Angles, in fortification, are 
those angles in a rampart which point 
outwards towards the country; those 
which point inwards towards the place 
fortified are called ‘‘ re-entering angles.” 


Salisbury Cathedral. Begun in 
1220, and finished in 1258; noted for 
having the loftiest spire in the United 
Kingdom. It is 400 feet high, or thirty 
feet higher than the dome of St. Paul’s. 


Salisbury Craigs. Rocks near 
Edinburgh ; so called from the Earl of 
Salisbury, whoaccompanied Edward IIT. 
on an expedition against the Scots. 


Sallee. A seaport on the west coast 
of Morocco. ‘The inhabitants were 
formerly notorious for their piracy. 


Sallust of France. César Vichard, 
Abbé de St. Réal; so called by Voltaire. 
(1639- 1692.) 

Sally. Saddle. (Latin, se//a; French, 
selle.) 

“The horse ... stopped his course by degrees, 
and went with his rider .. . into a pond to drink; 
and there sat his lordship upon the sally.”—Lives 
of the Norths. ᾿ 

“ Vaulting ambition ... o’erleaps its sell, 

And falls οὐ the other...” 
Shakespeare: Macbeth, i. 7. 

Sally Lunn. A tea-cake; so called 
from Sally Lunn, the pastrycook of Bath, 
who used to cry them about in a basket 
at the close of the eighteenth century. 
Dalmer, the baker, bought her recipe, 
and made a song about the buns. 


Sallyport. The postern in fortifi- 
cations. Itisa small door or port whence 
troops may issue unseen to make sa//ies, 
ete. (Latin, salio, to leap.) 


Sal‘macis. <A fountain of Caria, 
which rendered effeminate all those who 
bathed ‘therein. It was in this fountain 
that Hermaphroditus changed his sex. 
(Ovid: Metamorphoses, iv. 285, and xvi. 
319.) 

“Thy moist limbs melted into Salmacis.” 
Swinburne: Hermaphroditus. 


Sal’magun’di. A mixture of minced 
veal, chicken, or turkey, anchovies or 
pickled herrings, ard onions, all chopped 
together, and served with lemon-juice 
and oil; said to be so called from 
Salmagondi, one of the ladies attached 
to the suite of Mary de Medicis, wife 
of Henri IV. of France. She either 
invented the dish or was so fond of it 
that it went by her name. : 


Salt 
Salmon (Latin, salmo, to leap), The 
leaping fish. 
Salmon, as food for servants. At one 


time apprentices and servants stipulated 
that they should not be obliged to feed 
on salmon more than five days in a 
week. Salmon was one penny a pound. 
_ “A large boiled salmon would now-a-days have 
indicated most liberal housekeeping ; butat that 
period salmon was caught in such plenty (1679) 
... that, instead of being accounted a delicacy, 
it was generally applied to feed the servants, who 
are said sometimes to have stipulated that they 
should not be required to eat food so luscious and 
surfeiting ... above five times a week.”—Sir W. 
Scott: Old Mortality, chap. Vii. 

Salmo‘neus (3 syl.). A king of Elis, 
noted for his arrogance and impiety. He 
wished to be called a god, and to receive 
divine honour from his subjects. To 
imitate Jove’s thunder he used to drive 
his chariot over a brazen bridge, and 
darted burning torches on every side to 
imitate lightning, for which impiety the 
king of gods and men hurled a thunder- 
bolt at him, and sent him to the infernal 
regions. 


Sal’sabil. A fountain in Paradise. 
(Al Koran, xxvi.) 

“ Mahomet was taking his afternoon nap in his 
Paradise. A houri had rolled a cloud under his 
head, and he was snoring serenely near the foun- 
tain of Salsabil.’— Croquemitaine, ii. 8. 

Salt. Flavour, smack. ‘The salt of 

outh is that vigour and strong passion 
which then predominates. Shakespeare 
uses the term on several occasions for 
strong amorous passion. Thus Iago re- 
fers to it as ‘‘hot as monkeys, salt as 
wolves in pride’? (Othello, 111. 3). The 
Duke calls Angelo’s base passion his 
‘¢ salt imagination,” because he supposed 
his victim to be Isabella, and not his be- 
trothed wife whom the Duke forced him 
to marry. (Measure for Measure, v. 1.) 

“Though we are justices, and doctors, and 
churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our 
youth in us."—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 3. 

Spilling salt was held to be an unlucky 
omen bythe Romans, and the superstition 
has descended to ourselves. In Leonardo 
da Vinci’s famous picture of the Lord’s 
Supper, Judas Iscariot is known by the 
salt-cellar knocked over accidentally by 
his arm. Salt was used in sacrifice by 
the Jews, as well as by the Greeks and 
Romans; and it is still used in baptism 
by the Roman Catholic clergy. It was 
an emblem of purity and the sanctifying 
influence of a holy life on others. Hence 
our Lord tells His disciples they are “ the 
salt of the earth.”? Spilling the salt after 
it was placed on the head of the victim 
was a bad omen, hence the superstition. 


Salt 


1096 


Salt 


A covenant of salt (Numbers xviii. 19). 
A covenant which could not be broken. 
As salt was a symbol of incorruption, it, 
of course, symbolised perpetuity. 


“The Lord God of Israel gave the kingdom... 
to David... bya covenant of salt.”—2 Chronicles 


xiii. 5. 

Cwm grano salis. With great limita- 
tion; with its grain of salt, or truth. 
As salt is sparingly used in condiments, 
so is truth in the remark just made, 

He won't earn salt for his porridge. He 
will never earn a penny. 

Not worth one’s salt. Not worth the 
expense of the food he eats, 

To eat a man’s salt, Τὸ partake of his 
hospitality. Among the Arabs to eat a 
man’s salt was a sacred bond between 
the host and guest. No one who has 
eaten of another’s salt should speak ill 
of him or do him an ill turn. 

“One does not eat a man’s salt...at these 
dinners. There is nothing sacred in... London 
hospitality.”—Thackeray. 

To sit above the salt—in a place of dis- 
tinction, Formerly the family saler (salt 
cellar) was of massive silver, and placed 
in the middle of the table. Persons of 
distinction sat above the ‘saler’’—i.e. 
between it and the head of the table; 
dependents and inferior guests sat below. 

“ We took him upabove the salt and made much 
of him.’’—Kingsley : Westward Ho/ chap. xy. 

True to his salt. Faithful to his em- 
ployers. Here salt means salary or in- 
terests. (Seeabove, 70 eat a man’s salt.) 

“M. Waddington owes his fortune and his con- 
sideration to his father’s adopted country[France], 
and he is true to his salt.”—Newspaper paragraph, 
March 6, 1893, 

Salt. A sailor, especially an old 
sailor; e.g. an old salt. 


Salt Bread or Bitter Bread. The 
bread of affliction or humiliation. Bread 
too salt is both disagreeable to the taste 
and indigestible. 

“Tearning how hard it is to get back when once 
exiled, and how salt is the bread of others.’’—Mrs. 
Oliphant : Makers of Florence, p. 8. 

Salt-cellar (4). A table salt-stand. 
(French, saliere ; Latin, salarium.) 


Salt Hill (Eton). The mound at Eton 
where the Eton scholars used to collect 
money from the visitors on Montem day. 
The mound is still called Salt Hill, and 
the money given was called sa/t. The 
word salt is similar to the Latin sala’riwn 
(salary), the pay given to Roman soldiers 
and civil officers. (See MONTEM, SALARY.) 

*“ Cakes of salt are still used for money in 
Abyssinia and Thibet. 


Salt Junk, (See JUNE.) 


- Salt Lake, It has been stated that 
three buckets of this water will yield one 
of solid salt. This cannot be true, as 
water will not hold in solution more than 
twenty-five per cent. of saline matter. 
The Mormons engaged in procuring it 
state that they obtain one bucket of salt 
for every five buckets of water. (Quebec 
Morning Chronicle.) 


Salt Ring. An attempt to monopo- 
lise the sale of salt by a ring or company 
which bought up some of the largest of 
our salt-mines. 


Salt River. 70 row up Salt River. 
A defeated political party is said to be 
rowed up Salt River, and those who 
attempt to uphold the party have the 
task of rowing up this ungracious stream. 
J. Inman says the allusion is to a small 
stream in Kentucky, the passage of which 
is rendered both difficult and dangerous 
by shallows, bars, and an extremely tor- 
tuous channel, 


Salt an Invoice (70) is to put the 
extreme value upon each article, and 
even something more, to give it piquancy 
and raise its market value, according to 
the maxim, sa/sapit omnia. The French 
have the same expression: as ‘* /endre 
bien salé’’ (to sell very dear) ; ‘‘Z7 me ἴα 
bien salé’’ (He charged me an exorbitant 
price) ; and generally saler is to pigeon 
one. 


Salt in Beer. In Scotland it was 
customary to throw a handful of salt on 
the top of the mash to keep the witches 
from it. Salt really has the effect of 
moderating the fermentation and fining 
the liquor. 


Salt in a Coffin. It is still not un- 
common to put salt into a coffin, and 
Moresin tells us the reason ; Satan hates 
salt, because it is the symbol of incor- 


ruption and immortality. (Papatus, 
Ρ. 154.) 
Salt Losing its Savour. ‘If salt 


has lost its savour, wherewith shall it be 
salted?’’ If men fall from grace, how 
shall they be restored? The reference 
is to rock-salt, which loses its saltness if 
exposed to the hot sun. 


“ Along one side of the Valley of Salt (that to- 
wards Gibul) there is a small precipice about two 
men’s lengths, occasioned by taking away of the 
salt. I brokea piece off that was exposed to the 
sun, rain, and air; though it had the sparks and 
particles of salt, yet it had perfectly lost its 
savour, The inner part, however, retained its 
saltness.’’—Maundrel, quoted by Dr. Adam Clarke, 


Salt on His Tail (Zay). Catch or 
apprehend him. The phrase is based on 
the direction given to small children to 


Saltarello 


lay salt on a bird’s tail if they want to 
catch it. 

“His intelligence is so good, that were you to 
come near him with soldiers or constables, ... I 
shall answer for it you will never lay salt on his 
tail."—Sir W. Scott: Redgauntlet, chap. xi. 

Saltarello, ‘‘/e fils de la Folie et de 
Pulcinello”” A supposititious Italian 
dancer, sent to amuse Bettina in the 
court of the Grand Duke Laurent. 
Bettina was a servant on a farm, in love 
with the shepherd Pippo. But when 
she was taken to court and made a 
countess, Pippo was forbidden to ap- 
proach her. Bettina languished, and to 
amuse her a troop of Italian dancers 
was sent for, of which Saltarello was the 
leader. He soon made himself known 
to Bettina, and married her. Bettina 
was a ‘‘mascotte”’ (¢.v.), but, as the 
children of mascottes are mascottes also, 
the prince became reconciled with the 
promise that he should be allowed to 
adopt her first child. (La Mascotte.) 

Hence a Saltarello is an assumed 
covert to bring about a forbidden mar- 
riage and hoodwink those who forbade 
it. 

Saltpetre (French, saltpetre), sel de 
pierre, parcegwil forme des efflorescences 
salines sur lesmurs. (οι θέ : Dict, des 
Sciences.) 


Salu'te (2 syl.). According to tradi- 
tion, on the triumphant return of Maxi- 
milian to Germany, after his second 
campaign, the town of Augsburg ordered 
100 rounds of cannon to be discharged. 
The officer on service, fearing to have 
fallen short of the number, caused an 
extra round to be added. ‘The town of 
Nuremberg ordered a like salute, and 
the custom became established. 

Salute, in the British navy, between 
two ships of equalrank, is made by firing 
an equal number of guns. If the vessels 
are of unequal rank, the superior fires 
the fewer rounds. 

Royal salute, in the British navy, con- 
sists (1) in firing twenty-one great guns, 
(2) in the officers lowering their sword- 
points, and (3) in dipping the colours. 


Salutations. 


Shaking hands. A relic of the ancient 
custom of adversaries, in treating of a 
truce, taking hold of the weapon-hand 
to ensure against treachery. 

Lady's curtsey. A relic of the ancient 
custom of women going on the knee to 
men of rank and power, originally to 
beg mercy, afterwards to acknowledge 
superiority. 


Laking of the hat. <A relic of the 


1097 


1 


Samanides 


ancient custom of taking off the helmet 
when no danger is nigh. A man takes 
off his hat to show that he dares stand 
unarmed in your presence. 

Discharging guns as a salute. To show 
that no fear exists, and therefore no 
guns will be required. This is like 
** burying the hatchet ”’ (q.7.). 

Presenting arms—i.e, offering to give 
them up, from the full persuasion of the 
peaceful and friendly disposition of the 
person so honoured. 

Lowering swords. To express a willing- 
ness to put yourself unarmed in the 
power of the person saluted, from a full 
persuasion of his friendly feeling. 


Salve (1 syl.) is the Latin sal'via 
(sage), one of the most efficient of me- 
dizeval remedies. 

“To other woundes, and to broken armes, 

Some hadde salve, and some hadde charmes.” 

Chaucer : Canterbury Tales, line 2,715. 

Salve. To flatter, to wheedle. The 

allusion is to salving a wound, 


Salve (2 syl.). Latin ‘‘ hail,’ ‘‘ wel- 
come.’? The word is often woven on 
door-mats. 


Sam. Uncle Sam. The United States 
Government. Mr, Frost tells us that the 
inspectors of Elbert Anderson’s store on 
the Hudson were Ebenezer Wilson and 
his uncle Samuel Wilson, the latter of 
whom superintended in person the work- 
men, and went by the name of ‘‘ Uncle 
Sam.’? The stores were marked E.A.— 
U.S. (Elbert Anderson, United States). 
and one of the employers, being asked 
the meaning, said U.S. stood for ‘‘ Uncle 
Sam.’’? The joke took, and in the War 
of Independence the men carried it with 
them, and it became stereotyped. 

To stand Sam. To be made to pay the 
reckoning. This isan Americanism, and 
arose from the letters U.S. on the knap- 
sacks of the soldiers. The government 
of Uncle Sam has to pay, or ‘stand 
Sam ἢ for all. (See above.) 


Sam Weller. Servant of Mr. Pick- 
wick, famous for his metaphors, He is 
meant to impersonate the wit, shrewd- 
ness, quaint humour, and best qualities 
of London low life. (Charles Dickens ; 
Pickwick Papers.) 

Sa‘mael. The prince of demons, 
who, in the guise of a serpent, tempted 
Eve; also called the angel of death. 
(Jewish demonology.) 


Sam’anides (3 syl.). A dynasty of 
ten kings in Western Persia (902-1004), 
founded by Ismail al Sam’ani. 


Samaria 


Samaria, according to 1 Kings xvi. 
24, means the hill of Shemer. Omri 
‘bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for 
two talents of silver, and built on the 
hill, and called the name of [his] city 

. after the name of Shemer.. . 
Samaria.” (B.0. 925.) 


Samaritan. A good Samaritan. A 
philanthropist, one who attends upon 
the poor to aid them and give them 
relief. (Luke x. 30-37.) 


Sambo. A pet name given to anyone 
of the negro race, The term is properly 
applied to the male offspring of a negro 
and mulatto, the female offspring being 
called Zamba, (Spanish, zambo, bow- 
legged; Latin, scambus.) 


Samedi (French). Saturday. <A 
contraction of Satwrni-dies. In French, 
m and » are interchangeable, whence 
Saturne is changed to Saturme, and con- 
tracted into Swime. M. Masson, in his 
French etymologies, says it is Sabbati 
dies, but this cannot be correct. MArpr 
is Martis-dies,,VENDREDI is J’eneris dies, 
JEUDI is Jovis-dies, etc. (The day of 
Saturn, Mars, Venus, Jove, etc.) 


Sa'mian. Zhe Samian poet. Simon’- 
idés the satirist, born at Samos. 


Samian Letter (Zhe). The letter Y, 
used by Pythag’oras as an emblem of the 
straight narrow path of virtue, which is 
one, but, if once deviated from, the far- 
ther the lines are extended the wider 
becomes the breach. ; 

* When reason doubtful, like the Samian letter, 

Points him two ways, the narrower the better.” 

Duneiad, iv. 

Samian Sage (Zhe). Pythag’oras 
born at Samos; sometimes called ‘‘ the 
Samian.’’ (Sixth century B.c.) 

““Tis enough, 

In this late age, adventurous to have touched 

Light on the numbers of the Samian sage.” 

Thomson. 

Samia’sa. A seraph, who fell in love 
with Aholiba‘mah, a granddaughter of 
Cain, and when the flood came, carried 
her under his wing to some other planet. 
(Byron: Heaven and Earth.) 


Samiel, the Black Huntsman of the 
Wolt’s Glen. A satanic spirit, who gave 
to a marksman who entered into com- 
pact with him seven balls, six of which 
were to hit infallibly whatever was aimed 
at, but the seventh was to deceive. The 
person who made this compact was 
termed Der Frei'schutz. (Weber: Der 
Freischutz, libretto by Kind.) 


Sa’miel Wind, or Simoom’. A hot 
suffocating wind that blows occasionally 


1098 


Samson 


in Africa and Arabia. 
suffocatingly hot.) 
“ Burning and headlong as the Samiel wind.” 
Thomas Moore: Lalla Rookh, pt. i. 
Sammael, The chief of evil spirits, 
who is for ever gnashing his teeth over 
the damned. Next to him is Ashmedai 
(Asmodeus). (Cabalists.) 


Samoor. The south wind of Persia, 
which so softens the strings of lutes, 
that they can never be tuned while it 
lasts. (Stephen: Persia.) 


“ Like the wind of the south o’er a summer lute 
blowing, 
Hushed all its music, and withered its frame.” 
Thomas Moore: The Fire Worshippers. 


(Arabic, sama, 


Samosa'tian Philosopher. Lucian 
of Samos’ata. (Properly Samos'a-tan.) 


Sampford Ghost (1716). A kind of 
exaggerated ‘‘ Cock Lane ghost”’ (¢.v.), 
which ‘‘haunted’’? Sampford Peverell 
for about three years in the first decade 
of the 19th century. The house selected 
was occupied by a man named Chave, 
and besides the usual knockings, the in- 
mates were beaten; in one instance a 
powerful ‘‘unattached arm” flung a 
folio Greek Testament from a bed into 
the middle of a room. The Rev. Charles 
Caled Colton (credited as the author of 
these freaks) offered £100 to anyone who 
could explain the matter except ou 
supernatural grounds, No one, how- 
ever, claimed the reward. Colton died 


1832. 

Sampi. <A Greek numeral. (See 
EPIsEMON.) 

Sampler. A pattern, A piece of 
fancy-sewed or embroidered work done 
by girls for practice. 

Samp’‘son. A domminie Sampson. A 


humble pedantic scholar, awkward, 
irascible, and very old-fashioned. The 
character occurs in Sir Walter Scott’s 
Guy Mannering. 


Samson. Any man of unusual 
strength; so called from the Judge of 
Israel. 

The British Samson, Thomas Topham, 
son of a London carpenter. He lifted 
three hogsheads of water, weighing 1,836 
pounds, in the presence of thousands of 
spectators assembled in Bath Street, 
Coldbath Fields, May 28th, 1741. Being 
plagued by a faithless woman, he put an 
end to his life in the flower of his age. 
(1710-1753.) 

The Kentish Samson, Richard Joy, 
who died 1742, at the age of 67. His 
tombstone is in St. Peter’s churchyard, 
Isle of Thanet. 


Samson Carrasco 


Samson Carrasco. (See Don Quixote, 
pt. 11. bk. i. chap. iv.) 

San Benito (Zhe). The vest of peni- 
tence. It wasa coarse yellow tunic worn 
by persons condemned to death by the 
Inquisition on their way to the auto da fé; 
it was painted over with flames, demons, 
etc. In the case of those who expressed 
repentance for their errors, the flames 
were directed downwards. Penitents 
who had been taken before the Inqui- 
sition had to wear this badge for a stated 
period. Those worn by Jews, sorcerers, 
aud renegades bore a St. Andrew’s 
cross in red on back and front. 


San Chris’tobal. A mountain in 
Grana'da, seen by ships arriving from the 
African coast ; so called because colossal 
images of St. Christopher were erected in 
places of danger, from the superstitious 
notion that whoever cast his eye on the 
gigantic saint would be free from peril 
for the whole day. 


San Suen’a. 


Sance-bell. Same as “‘ Sanctus-bell.’’ 
(Sze SACRING-BELL. ) 


San’cha. Daughter of Garcias, King 
of Navarre, and wife of Fernan Gonsa‘lez 
of Castile. She twice saved the life of 
the count her husband; once on-his 
road to Navarre, being waylaid by per- 
sonal enemies and cast into a dungeon, 
she liberated him by bribing the gaoler. 
The next time was when Fernan was 
waylaid and held prisoner at Leon. On 
this occasion she effected his escape 
by changing clothes with him. 

< The tale resembles that of the Count- 
ess of Nithsdale, who effected the escape 
of her husband from the Tower on Feb- 
ruary 23rd, 1715; and that of the 
Countess de Lavalette, who, in 1815, 
liberated the count her husband from 
prison by changing clothes with him. 


Zaragoza, 


Sancho Panza, the squire of Don 
Quixote, was governor of Barata’ria, ac- 
cording to Cervantes. He is described 
as a short, pot-bellied rustic, full of 
common sense, but without a grain of 
‘“spirituality.’? He rode upon an ass, 
Dapple, and was famous for his pro- 
verbs. Panza, in Spanish, means pawich. 

A Sancho Panza. A justice of the 
peace. In allusion to Sancho, as judge 
im the isle of Barata/ria. 

Sancho Panza’s wife, called Terésa, pt. 
ii. i, 5; Maria, pt. ii. iv. 7; Juana, pt. i. 
7; and Joan, pt. i. 21. 

Sancho. The model painting of this 
squire is Leslie’s Sancho and the Duchess. 


1099 


Saney Diamond 


Sanchoni'atho. A forgery of the 
nine books of this ‘‘author’’ was printed 
at Bremen in 1837. The “ original’’ 
was said to have been discovered in the 
convent of St. Maria de Merinhao by 
Colonel Pereira, a Portuguese; but it 
was soon discovered (1) that no such 
convent existed, (2) that there was no 
colonel in the Portuguese service of the 
name, and (3) that the paper of the MS. 
displayed the water-mark of an Osna- 
brick paper-mill. (See RicHARD ΟΕ 
CIRENCESTER. ) 


Sanctum Sancto’rum. A private 
room into which no one uninvited enters. 
The reference is to the Holy of Holies 
in the Jewish Temple, a small chamber 
into which none but the high priest 
might enter, and that only on the Great 
Day of Atonement. A man’s -private 
house is his sanctuary ; his own special 
private room in that house is the sanctu- 
ary of the sanctuary, or the sanctum 
sancto'rum. 


Sancy’ Diamond. So called from 
Nicholas de Harlay, Sieur de Sancy, who 
bought it for 70,000 francs (£2,800) of 
Don Antonio, Prince of Crato and King 
of Portugal in partibus. It belonged 
at one time to Charles the Bold of Bur- 
gundy, who wore it with other diamonds 
at the battle of Granson, in 1476 ; and 
after his defeat it was picked up by a 
Swiss soldier, who sold it for a gulden 
toaclergyman, The clergyman sold it 
sixteen years afterwards (1492) to a 
merchant of Lucerne for 5,000 ducats 
(£1,125). It was next purchased (1495) 
by Emanuel the Fortunate of Portugal, 
and remained in the house of Aviz till 
the kingdom was annexed to Spain 
(1580), when Don Antonio sold it to 
Sieur de Sancy, in whose family it re- 
mained more than a century. On one 
occasion the sieur, being desirous of 
aiding Henri I. in his struggle for the 
crown, pledged the diamond to the Jews 
at Metz. The servant entrusted with it, 
being attacked by robbers, swallowed 
the diamond, and was murdered, but 
Nicholas de Harlay subsequently re- 
covered the diamond out of the dead 
body of his unfortunate messenger. We 
next find it in the possession of James 
II., who purchased it for the crown of 
England. James carried it with him 
in his flight to France in 1688, when it 
was sold to Louis XIV. for £25,000. 
Louis XV. wore it at his coronation, but 
during the Revolution it was again sold. 
Napoleon in his high and palmy days 
bought it, but it was sold in 1835 to 


Sand 


Prince Paul Demidofi for £80,000. The 
prince sold it in 1830 to M. Levrat, 
administrator of the Mining Society, 
who was to pay for it in four instal- 
ments; but his failing to fulfil his en- 
gagement became, in 1852, the subject 
of a lawsuit, which was given in favour 
of the prince. We next hear of it in 
Bombay ; and in 1867 it was transmitted 
to England by the firm of Forbes & Co. 
It now belongs to the Czar. 


Sand (George). The nom de plume of 
Madame Dudevant, a French authoress, 
assumed out of attachment to Jules 
Sand or Sandeau, a young student, in 
conjunction with whom she published 
her first novel, Rose et Blanche, under 
the name of ‘‘Jules Sand.’”’ (1804- 
1876.) 

Sand. 4A rope of sand. Something 
nominally effective and strong, but in 
reality worthless and untrustworthy. 

My sand of life is almost run. The 
allusion is to the hour-glass. 

“ Alas! dread Jord, you see the case wherein I 
stand, and how little sand is left to run in my 
poor glass.”—Reynard the Fox, iv. 

Sand-blind. Virtually blind, but 
not wholly so; what the French call 
ber-lue; our par-blind. (Old English 
suffix sam, half; or Old High German 
sand, virtually.) It is only fit for a 
Launcelot Gobbo to derive it from sand, 
a sort of earth. 


“This is my true-hegotten father, who, being 
more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind, knows 
me not.’—Shukespeare: Merchant of Venice, 11. 2. 


Sand-man is about (Zhe). (See 
DusTMAN. ) 
Sands. Jvotprints on the sands of 


Time (Longfellow : Psalm of Life). This 
beautiful expression was probably sug- 
gested by a letter of the First Napoleon 
to his Minister of the Interior respecting 
the poor-laws :—‘‘It is melancholy [he 
says] to see time passing away without 
being put to its full value. Surely ina 
matter of this kind we should endeavour 
to do something, that we may say that 
we have not lived in vain, that we may 
leave some impress of our lives on the 
sands of Time,”’ 
To number sands. To undertake an 
endless or impossible task. 
“ Alas! poor duke, the task he undertakes 
Isnumbering sands and drinking oceans dry.” 
Shakespeare: Richard IT., il. 2. 
San’dabar. An Arabian writer, cele- 
brated for his Parables. He lived about 


a century before the Christian era. 
Sandal. 4 man without sandals. A 

prodigal ; so called by the ancient Jews, 

because the seller gave his sandals to the 


1100 


Sandwich 


buyer as a ratification of his bargain. 
(Ruth iv. 7.) ; 


Sandals of Theram’enes (4 syl.), 
which would fit any foot. Theramenes, 
one of the Athenian oligarchy, was 
nicknamed ‘‘the trimmer’’ (cothwrnus, 
a sandal or boot which might be worn 
on either foot), because no dependence 
could be placed on him. He blew hot 
and cold with the same breath. The 
proverb is applied to a trimmer. 


Sandal’phon. One of the three 
angels who receive the prayers of the 
Israelites, and weave crowns for them, 
(Long fellow.) 


Sandalwood. A corruption of 
Santalwood, a plant of the genus San’- 
talwm and natural order Santala'cee. 


Sandbanks. Wynants, a Dutch artist, 
is famous for his homely pictures, where 
sandbanks form a most striking feature. 


Sandema‘nians or (Glassites, A re- 
ligious party expelled from the Church 
of Scotland for maintaining that na- 
tional churches, being ‘‘ kingdoms of this 
world,’’ are unlawful. Called Glassites 
from John Glass, the founder (1728), 
and called Sandemanians from Robert 
Sandéman, who published a series of 
letters on the subject in 1756, 


Sanden [sandy-den|. The great 
palace of King Lion, in the tale of 
Reynard the Fox. 

Sandford and Merton. 
Day’s tale so called. 


Sandjar. One of the Seljuke Sultans 
of Persia; so called from the place of 
his birth. Generally considered the 
Persian Alexander. (1117-1168.) 

Sandschaki or Sandschaki-sherif 
[the standard of green silk]. ‘The sacred 
banner of the Mussulmans. It is now 
enveloped in four coverings of green 
taffeta, enclosed in a case of green cloth. 
The standard is twelve feet high, and the 
golden ornament (a closed hand) which 
surmounts it holds a copy of the Koran 
written by the Calif Osman III, In 
times of peace this banner is guarded 
in the hall of the ‘‘ noble vestment,”? 
as the dress worn by ‘‘the prophet’? 
is styled. In the same hall are pre- 
served the sacred teeth, the holy beard, 
the sacred stirrup, the sabre, and the 
bow of Mahomet. 


Sandwich. A piece of meat between 
two slices of bread; so called from the 
Earl of Sandwich (the noted “" Jeommy 
Twitcher’’), who passed whole days in 


Thomas 


Sandwichman 


— — =—— 


1101 


Sanhedrim 


gambling, bidding the waiter bring him 
for refreshment a piece of meat between 
two pieces of bread, which he ate 
without stopping from play. This con- 
trivance was not first hit upon by the 
earl in the reign of George III., as the 
Romans were very fond of ‘“ sand- 
wiches,”’ called by them offwda. 


Sandwichman (4). A perambu- 
lating advertisement displayer, with an 
advertisement board before and behind, 


“The Earl of Shaftesbury desired to say a word 
on behalf of a very respectable body of men, 


ordinarily called * sandwiches.’” — The Times, 
March 16th, 1867. 

Sang Bleu. Of high aristocratic 
descent. The words are French, and 


mean blue blood, but the notion is 
Spanish. The old families of Spain who 
trace their pedigree beyond the time of 
the Moorish conquest say that their 
venous blood is blue, but that of com- 
mon people is black. 


Sang Froid (French, ‘‘ cool blood’), 
meaning indifference ; without temper 
or irritation. 


Sangaree’. A West Indian drink, 
consisting of Madeira wine, syrup, 
water, and nutmeg. 


San’glamore (3 syl.). Braggado- 
chio’s sword. (Spenser: Faerie Queene.) 


San’glier (Si7). Meant for Shan 
O’Neil, leader of the Irish insurgents 
in 1567. (Spenser : Faérie Queene, v.) 

Sanglier des Ardennes. Guillaume 
de la Marck. driven from Liége, for the 
murder of the Bishop of Liége, and be- 
headed by the Archduke Maximilian. 
(1446-1485.) 


Sangra’do (D7.), in the romance of 
Gil Blas, prescribes warm water and 
bleeding for every ailment. The charac- 
ter is a satire on Helvetius. (Book ii. 2.) 

“Tf the Sangra’dos were ignorant, there was at 
any rate more to spare in the veins then than 
there is now.’—Daily Telegraph. 

Sangreal. The vessel from which 
our Saviour drank at the Last Supper, 
and which (as it is said) was afterwards 
filled by Joseph of Arimathe’a with the 
blood that flowed from His wounds. This 
blood was reported to have the power of 
prolonging life and preserving chastity. 
The quest of this cup forms the most 
fertile source of adventures to the 
knights of the Round Table. The story 
of the Sangreal or Sangraal was first 
written in verse by Chrestien de Troyes 
(end of the tenth century), thence 
Latinised (thirteenth century), and 
finally turned into French prose by 


Gautier Map, by ‘‘order of Lord 
Henry ’”’ (Henry III.). It commences 
with the genealogy of our Saviour, and 
details the whole Gospel history; but 
the prose romance begins with Joseph 
of Arimathe’a. Its quest is continued 
in Percival, a romance of the fifteenth 
century, which gives the adventures of 
a young Welshman, raw and inex- 
perienced, but admitted to knighthood. 
At his death the sangreal, the sacred 
lance, and the silver trencher were 
carried up to heaven in the presence of 
attendants, and have never since been 
seen on earth. 

Tennyson has a poem entitled Zhe 
Holy Grail. 


Sanguine [mzurrey]. One of the nine 
colours used by foreign heralds in 
escutcheons. It is expressed by lines of 
vert and purpure crossed, that is, 
diagonals from right to left crossing 
diagonals from left to right. (δὲσ 
TENNE.) 

Tennée and Sanguine are not used by English 
heralds. (See HEKALDS.) 

Sanguinary James (4). A sheep’s 
head not singed. A jemmy is a sheep’s 
head ; so called from James I., who 
introduced into England the national 
Scotch dish of ‘‘ singed sheep’s head and 
trotters.’”” No real Scotch dinner is 
complete without a haggis, a sheep’s 
head and trotters, and a hotch-potch (in 
summer), or cocky leekie (in winter). 

A cocky leekie is a fowl boiled or 
stewed with leeks or kale—.e. salt beef 
and curly greens. 

Gimmer (a sheep) cannot be the origin of 
Jemmy, as the G is always soft. 

San’/hedrim. TheJewish Sanhedrim 
probably took its form from the seventy 
elders appointed to assist Moses in the 
government. After the captivity it seems 
to have been a permanent consistory 
court. The president was called ‘‘ Ha- 
Nasi’”’ (the prince), and the vice-pre- 
sident ‘‘ Abba’’ (father). The seventy 
sat in a semicircle, thirty-five on each 
side of the president; the ‘‘father”’ 
being on his right hand, and the 
‘“‘hacan,’’ or sub-deputy, on his left. 
All questions of the ‘‘ Law” were dog- 
matically settled by the Sanhedrim, and 
those who refused obedience were ex- 
communicated. ‘(Greek, swnedrion, a 
sitting together.) 

Sanhedrim, in Dryden’s satire of Ab- 
salon and Achitophel, stands for the 
British Parliament. 


“ The Sanhedrim long time as chief he ruled, 
Their reason guided, and their passion cooled.” 


Sanjaksherif 


1102 


Sapphics 


Sanjaksherif. The flag of the pro- 
phet. (Turkish, sanjak, a standard.) 


Sans Culottes (French, without 
trousers), A name given by the aristo- 
cratic section during the French Revolu- 
tion to the popular party, the favourite 
leader of which was Henriot. (1793.) 

Sans Culottides. The five com- 
plementary days added to the twelve 
months of the Revolutionary Calendar. 
Each month being made to consist of 
thirty days, the riff-raff days which 
would not conform to the law were 
named in honour of the sans culottes, 
and made idle days or holidays. 

Sans-culottism. Red republicanism. 


Sans Peur et Sans Reproche. 
Pierre du Terrail, Chevalier de Bayard, 
was called Le chevalier sans peur et sans 
reproche. (1476-1524.) 

Sans Souci (French). Free and easy, 
void of care. There is a place so called 
near Potsdam, where Frederick II. (the 
Great) built a royal palace. 

Linfjans Sans Souci. The Tradesmen’s 
company of actors, as opposed to the 
Lawyers’, called ‘‘ Basochians’’ (q.v.). 
This company was organised in France 
in the reign of Charles VIII., for the 
performance of short comedies, in which 
public characters and the manners of 
the day were turned into ridicule. The 
manager of the ‘‘ Care-for-Nothings ”’ 
(sans souct) was called ‘‘The Prince of 
Fools.’’ One of their dramatic pieces, 
entitled Master Pierre Pathelin, was an 
immense favourite with the Parisians, 


Sansca’ra. The ten essential rites 
of Hindus of the first three castes: (1) 
at the conception of a child; (2) at the 
quickening ; (3) at birth ; (4) at naming ; 
(6) carrying the child out to see the 
moon; (6) giving him food to eat; (7) 
the ceremony of tonsure ; (8) investiture 
with the string; (9) the close of his 
studies; (10) the ceremony of “ mar- 
riage,’’ when he is qualified to perform 
the sacrifices ordained. 


Sansfoy ([Jnjidelity]|. A Saracen 
‘“who cared for neither God nor man,”’’ 
encountered by St. George and slain. 
(Spenser : Faérie Queene, book i. 2.) 


Sansjoy [Without the peace of God]. 
Brother of Sansfoy (Infidelity) and 
Sansloy (Without the law of God). He 
is a paynim knight, who fights with St. 
George in the palace grounds of Pride, 
and would have been slain if Duessa had 
not rescued him. He is carried in the 


car of Night to the infernal regions, 


where he is healed of his wounds by 
Escula’pius. (Spenser: Faérie Queene, 
book i. 4, 5.) 


Sansloy [/rreligion], brother of Sans- 
foy (q.v.). Having torn off the disguise 
of Archima’go and wounded the lion, he 
carries off Una into the wilderness. Her 
shrieks arouse the fauns and satyrs, 
who come to her rescue, and Sansloy 
flees. Una is Truth, and, being without 
Holiness (the Red-Cross Knight), is de- 
ceived by Hypocrisy. As soon as Truth 
joins Hypocrisy, instead of Holiness, 
Irreligion breaks in and carries her 
away. The reference is to the reign 
of Queen Mary, when the Reformatfon 
was carried captive, and the lion was 
wounded by the ‘‘ False-law of God.’’ 
(Spenser : Faérie Queene, book i. 2.) 

In book ii, Sansloy appears again as 
the cavalier of Perissa or Prodigality. 


Sansonetto (in Orlando Furioso). A 
Christian regent of Mecca, vicegerent of 
Charlemagne, 


Santa Casa (Italian, the holy house). 
The reputed house in which the Virgin 
Mary lived at Nazareth, miraculously 
translated to Fiume, in Dalmatia, in 
1291, thence to Recana’ti in 1294, and 
finally to Macera‘ta, in Italy, to 2 piece 
of land belonging to the Lady Loretto. 


Santa Claus or Santa Klaus. A 
corrupt contraction of Sankt Nikolaus 
(Sank’ni kolaus—i.e. St. Nicolas), the 
patron saint of children. The vigil of 
his feast is still held in some places, but 
for the most part his name is now asso- 
ciated with Christmas-tide. The old 
custom used to be for someone, on 
December δέῃ, to assume the costume 
of a bishop and distribute small gifts to 
‘‘sood children.*? The present custom 
is to put toys and other little presents 
into a stocking or pillow-case late on 
Christmas Eve, when the children are 
asleep, and when they wake on Christ- 
mas morn each child finds in the stocking 
or bag hung at the bedside the gift sent 
by Santa Claus. St. Nicholas’ day is 
December 6. The Dutch Aviss Lvingle. 


Saophron. The girdle worn by 
Grecian women, whether married or not. 
The bridegroom loosed the bride’s girdle, 
whence ‘‘ to loose the girdle’’ came to 
mean to deflower a woman, and a pros- 
titute was called “ἃ woman whose 
girdle is unloosed”’ (Luv Avaigwvos). 


Sapphics. A Greek and Latin 
metre, so named from Sappho, the in- 
ventor, Horace always writes this 


Sappho 


1103 


metre in four-line stanzas, the last 
being an Adon’ic. There must be a 
exsura at the fifth foot of each of the 
first three lines, which runs thus :— 
—~|——|-llv-~]—-l—-~ 
The Adonic is— | 
---.ϑ|--τ- οὶ] - - 

The first and third stanzas of the 
famous Ode of Horace (i. 22) may be 
translated thus, preserving the metre :— 


He of sound life, who ne'er with sinners 
wendeth, 
Needs no Maurish bow, such as malice bendeth, 
Nor with poisoned darts life from harm de- 
fendeth, 
Fuscus believe me. 
Once I, unarmed, was in a forest roaming, 
Singing s love lays, when i’ the secret eloaming 
Rushed a huge wolf, which, though in fury 
foaming, 4 ᾿ 
Did notaggrieveme. F.C. Β. 
Sappho of Toulouse. Clémence 
Tsaure (2 syl.), a wealthy lady of Tou- 
louse, who instituted in 1490 the ‘‘ Jeux 
Floraux,”’ and left funds to defray their 
annual expenses. She composed a beau- 


tiful Ode to Spring. (1463-1513.) 


Sar’acen Wheat (French, Blé-sar- 
vasin). Buck-wheat ; so called because it 
was brought into Spain by the Moors or 
Saracens. (See BUCKWHEAT.) 


Sar’acens. Ducange derives this 
word from Sarah (Abraham’s wife) ; 
Hottinger from the Arabic saraca (to 
steal) ; Forster from sahra (a desert) ; 
but probably it is the Arabic sharakyoun 
or sharkeyn (the eastern people), as op- 
posed to Mag“haribé (the western people 
—i.e. of Morocco). Any unbaptised 
person was called a Saracen in medieval 
romance. (Greek, Swrakénos.) 

© So the Arabs, or Saracens, as they are called 
δ gave men the choice of three things.’—4£, 4. 
Freeman: General Sketch, chap. vi. p. 117. 

Saragoz’a. The Maid of Saragoza. 
Augustina, who was only twenty-two 
when, her lover being shot, she mounted 
the battery in his place. The French, 
after besieging the town for two months, 
had to retreat, August ldth, 1808. 


Sar’aswa ti. 
goddess of fine arts. 


Sar’casm. 
of the skin; a cutting “taunt. 
sarkazo, to flay, etc.) 


Sarce’net (2 syl.). A corruption of 
Swracennet, from its Saracenic or Oriental 
origin. 


Sarcenet Chidings, Loving rebukes, 
as those of a mother to a young child— 
** You little rogue,”’ ete. 

“The child reddened... and hesitated, while 
the mother, with many a fye . . and such sar- 


cenet ¢ hidings as tender mothers. give to spoiled 
children . . .”—Sir W. Scott: The Monastery, ii. 


Wife of Brahma, and 
(Hindu mythology). 


A flaying or plucking off 
(Greek, 


Sardonyx 


Sarcoph’/agus. A stone, according 
to Pliny, which consumed the flesh, and 
was therefore chosen by the ancients for 
coffins, It is called sometimes Jdapis 
Assius, because it was found at Assos of 
Lycia. (Greek, δα), flesh ; phagein, to 
eat or consume.) 


Sardanapa'lus. King of Nineveh 
and Assyria, noted for his luxury and 
voluptuousness. His effeminacy induced 
Arba’ces, the Mede, to conspire against 
him. Myrra, an Ionian slave, and his 
favourite concubine, roused him from his 
lethargy, and induced him to appear at 
the head of his armies. He won three 
successive battles, but being then de- 
feated, was induced by Myrra to place 
himself on a funeral pile, which she 
herself set fire to, and then jumpin 
into the flames, perished with her be- 
loved master. (Died 8.0. 817.) (Byron: 
Sardanapalus.) 

A Sardanapalus. Any luxurious, ex- 
travagant, self-willed tyrant. (See above.) 

Sardanapalus of China. Cheo-tsin, 
who shut himself and his queen in his 
palace, and set fire to the building, that 
he might not fall into the hands of Woo- 
wong, who founded the dynasty of 
Tchow (B.c. 1154-1122). It was Cheo- 
tsin who invented the chopsticks. 


Sardinian Laugh. Laughing on 
the wrong side of one’s mouth. The 
Edinburgh Tteview says: ‘The ancient 
Sardinians used to get rid of their old 
relations by throwing them into deep 
pits, and the sufferers were expected to 
teel delighted at this attention to their 
well- being. ” (uly, 1849.) 


Sardon’‘ic Smile, Grin, or Laugh- 
ter. A smile of contempt: so used by 
Homer. 


“The Sardonic or Sardinian laugh. A laugh 
caused, it was supposed, by a plant growing in 
Sardinia, of which they who ate died laughing.” 
—Trench : Words, lecture iy. p. 176, 


The Herba Sardon'ia (so called from 
Sardis, in Asia Minor) is so acrid that it 
produces a convulsive movement of the 
nerves of the face, resembling a painful 
grin. Byron says of the Corsair, There 
was a laughing devil in his sneer. 


“Tis envy’s safest, surest rule 
To hide her rage in ridicule ; 
The vulgar eye the best beguiles 
When all her snakes are decked w ith smiles, 
Sardonic smiles by rancour raised.” 
Swift: Pheasant and Lark. 


Sar’donyx. An orange-brown cor- 
nelian. Pliny says it is called sard from 
Sardis, in Asia Minor, where it is found, 
and onyx, the nail, because its colour re- 
sembles that of the skin under the nail 


(XXXVii. 6). 


Sarnia, 


Sarnia, Adjective, Sar- 
nian. 


“Sometimes... mistakes occur in our little bits 
of Sarnian intelligence.’”—Mrs, Edwardes: A 
Girton Girl, chap. 111. 

Sarpe'don. A favourite of the gods, 
who assisted Priam when Troy was 
besieged by the allied Greeks. When 
Achilles refused to fight, Sarpe'don made 
great havoc in battle, but was slain by 
Patroc'‘los. (Homer: Iliad.) 


Sars’en Stones. The ‘ Druidical”’ 
sandstones of Wiltshire and Berkshire 
are so called. The early Christian 
Saxons used the word Saresyn as a syno- 
nym of pagan or heathen, and as these 
stones were popularly associated with 
Druid worship, they were called Saresyn 
or heathen stones. Robert Ricart says 
of Duke Rollo, ‘‘ He was a Saresyn come 
out of Denmark into France.’’? Another 
derivation is the Phoenician sarsen (a 
rock), applied to any huge mass of stone 
that has been drawn from the quarry in 
its rude state. 

** These boulders are no more con- 
nected with the Druids than Stonehenge 
is (q.v.). 

Sartor Resartus. (The Tailor 
Patched.) By Thomas Carlyle. 

Diogenes Teufelsdréckh is Carlyle him- 
self, and Entepfuhlis his native village 
of Ecclefechan. 

The Rose Goddess, according to Froude, 
is Margaret Gordon, but Strachey 
is Blumine, i.e. Witty. Kirkpatrick, 
daughter of Colonel Achilles Kirk- 
patrick, and Rose Garden is Strachey’s 
garden at Shooter’s Hill. The duenna is 
Mrs. Strachey. 

The Zahdarms are Mr. and Mrs. Buller, 
and Toughgut is Charles Buller. 

Philistine is the Rev. Edward Irving. 


Sash Window is a window that 
moves up and down in a groove. 
(French, chassis, a sash or groove.) 


Sassan‘ides (4 syl.). The first Per- 
sian dynasty of the historic period ; so 
named because Ard’eshir, the founder, 
was son of Sassan, a lineal descendant of 
Xerxes, 


Sassenach (ch =k). A Keltic word 
for a Saxon, or for the English language. 


Sa'tan, in Hebrew, means enemy. 
“To whom the Arch-enemy 
(And hence in heaven called Satan).” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, bk. i. 81, 82. 

Satan’s Journey to Earth (Milton: 
Paradise Lost, iii, 418 to the end), He 
starts from Hell, and wanders a long 
time about the confines of the Universe, 


Guernsey. 


1104 


Saturn’s Tiree 


where he sees Chaos and Limbo, The 
Universe is a vast extended plain, forti- 
fied by part of the ethereal quintessence 
out of which the stars were created. 
There is a gap in the fortification, 
through which angels pass when they 
visit our earth. Being weary, Satan 
rests awhile at this gap, and contem- 
plates the vast Universe. He then 
transforms himself into an angel of light 
and visits Uriel, whom he finds in the 
Sun. He asks Uriel the way to Paradise, 
and Uriel points out to him our earth. 
Then plunging through the starry vault, 
the waters above the firmament, and the 
firmament itself, he alights safely on 
Mount Niphatés, in Armenia. 

Satan’ic. The Satanie School. So 
Southey called Lord Byron and his 
imitators, who set at defiance the gener- 
ally received notions of religion. Of 
English writers, Byron, Shelley, Moore, 
and Bulwer are the most prominent; of 
French writers Rousseau, Victor Hugo, 
Paul de Kock, and George Sand, 


Satire (2syl.). Scaliger’s derivation 
of this word from satyr isuntenable. It 
is from satwa (full of variety), δα γα 
lanx, a hotchpotch or olla. podrida. As 
max unus, optu mus, etc., became maxi- 
mus, optimus, so ‘satura’’ became sat'ira. 
(See Dryden’s Dedication prefixed to his 
Satires.) 

Father of satire. Archil’ochos of 
Paros (B.c. seventh century). 


Father of French satire. Mathurin 
Regnier (1573-1613). 
Father of Roman satire, Liucilius 


(.σ. 148-103). 


* Lucilius was the man who, bravely bold, 
To Roman vices did the mirror hold ; 
Protected humble goodness from reproach, 
Showed worth on foot, and rascals in a coach.” 
Dryden: Art of Poetry, 6. 11. 


Saturday. (Sce Brack SaTURDAY.) 


Saturn or Kronos [Time] devoured 
all his children except Jupiter, Neptune, 
and Pluto. Jupiter means air, Neptune 
water, and Pluto the grave. These Time 
cannot consume. 

Saturn is a very evil planet to be born 
under, ‘The children of the sayd 
Saturne shall be great jangeleres and 
chyders ... and they will never forgyve 
tyll they be revenged of theyr quarell.”’ 
(Compost of Ptholomeus.) 


Saturn, with the ancient alchemists, 
designated lead. 


Saturn’s Tree, in alchemy, is a de- 
posit of crystallised lead, massed_to- 
gether in the form of a ‘‘ tree.” It is 


Saturnalia 


1105 


Saul 


produced by a shaving of zinc in a solu- 
tion of the acetate of lead. In alchemy 
Saturn = lead. (See DIANA’s TREE.) 


Saturna'lia. A time of licensed 
disorder and misrule, With the Romans 
it was the festival of Saturn, and was 
celebrated the 17th, 18th, and 19th of 
December. During its continuance no 
public business could be transacted, the 
law courts were closed, the schools kept 
holiday, no war could be commenced, 
and no malefactor punished. Under the 
empire the festival was extended to 
seven days. 


Saturnian Days. Days of dulness, 
when everything is venal. 
‘Then rose the seed of Chaos and of Night 
To blot out order and extinguish light, 
Of dull and venal a new world to mould, 
And bring Saturnian days of lead and gold.” 
Dunciad, iy, 
They are /ead to indicate dulness, 
and gold to indicate venality. 


Satur’nian Verses. Old-fashioned. 
A rude composition employed in satire 
among the ancient Romans. Also a 
peculiar metre, consisting of three iam- 
bics and a syllable over, joined to three 
trochees, according to the following 
nursery metre :— 

“The queen was in the par-lour ... 
The maids were in the garden...” 

“The Fescennine and Saturnian were the same, 
for as they were called Saturnian from their 
ancientness, when Saturn reigned in Italy, they 
were called Fescennine from Fescennina [s/c], 
where they were first practised.’—Dryden: Dedi- 
cation of Juvenal. 

Saturnine (3 syl.). A grave, phleg- 
matic disposition, dull and heavy. As- 
trologers affirm that such is the disposi- 
tion of those who are born under the 
influence of the leaden planet Saturn. 


Satyr. The most famous representa- 
tion of these goat-men is that of Prax- 
it’eles, a sculptor of Athens in the fourth 
century B.C. 


Sat'yrane (3 syl.). A blunt but 
noble knight who delivered Una from the 
fauns and satyrs, The meaning is this: 
Truth, being driven from the towns and 
cities, took refuge in caves and dens, 
where for a timeit lay concealed. At 
length Sir Satyrane (Luther) rescues 
Una from bondage ; but no sooner is this 
the case than she falls in with Archima’go, 
to show how very difficult it was at the 
Reformation to separate Truth from 
Error. (Spenser: Faérie Queene, bk. i.) 


_ Sauce means “salted food,” for giv- 
ing a relish to meat, as pickled roots, 
herbs, and so on. (Latin, sa/sws.) 


70 


The sauce was better than the fish. The 
accessories were better than the main 
part. This may be said of a book in 
which the plates and getting up are 
better than the matter it contains. 

To serve the same sauce. To retaliate ; 
to give as good as you take ; to serve in 
the same manner. 

“ After him another came unto her, and served 
her with the same sauce ; thena third. . .°—The 
Man in the Moon, etc. (1609), 

Sauce (70). To intermix. 


“Then she fell to sauce her desires with 
threatenings.’’—Sidney. 


“Folly sauced with discretion.”—Shakespeare: 
Troilus and Cressida, i. 2. 

Sauce to the Goose is Sauce to 
the Gander. (See GANDER.) 


Saucer Eyes. Big, round, glaring 
eyes, 
“ Yet when a child (bless me !) I thought 
That thou a pair of horns had'’st got, 
With eyes like saucers staring.” 
Peter Pindar: Ode to the Devil. 
Saucer Oath. When a Chinese is 
put in the witness-box, he says: ‘‘If I 
do not speak the truth may my soul be 
cracked and broken like this saucer.’’ So 
saying, he dashes the saucer on the 
ground, The Roman Catholic impreca- 
tion, known as ‘‘ Bell, Book, and Candle ”’ 
(q.v.), and the Jewish marriage custom 
of breaking a wine-glass, are of a similar 
character. 


Saucy. Rakish, irresistible ; or rather 
that care-for-nobody, jaunty, daring 
behaviour which has won for many of 
our regiments the term as a compliment. 
It is also applied metaphorically to some 
inanimate things, as ‘‘saucy waves,” 
which dare attack the very moon; the 
ΚΕ ΒΆΤΟΥ world,’’ which dares defy the 
very gods; the ‘‘saucy mountains,’’ 
ἐς winds,”’ ‘‘ wit,’’ and so on, 

“But still the little petrel was saucy as the 
wayes. 
Eliza Cook: The Young Mariners, stanza 7. 

Saul, in Dryden’s satire of Absalom 
and Achitophel, is meant for Oliver 
Cromwell. As Saul persecuted David 
and drove him from Jerusalem, so 
Cromwell persecuted Charles II. and 
drove him from England. 

“They who, when Saul was dead, without a blow 

Made foolish Ishhbosheth [Richard Cromwell] 

the crown forego.” Part i. lines 57, 58. 

Saul among the prophets 2 The Jews 
said of our Lord, ‘‘ How knoweth this 
man letters, having never learned ἢ ἢ 
(John vii. 16.) Similarly at the conver- 
sion of Saul, afterwards called Paul. the 
Jews said in substance, ‘‘Is it possible 
that Saul can be a convert?’ (Acts ix. 
21.) The proverb applies to a person 


Saut Lairds 


who unexpectedly bears tribute to a 
party or doctrine that he has hitherto 
vigorously assailed. (1 Sam. x. 12.) 


Saut Lairds οὐ Dunsccre (7Zje). 
Lords or gentlefolk who have only a 
name but no money. The tale is that 
the ‘‘puir wee lairds of Dunscore”’ 
clubbed together to buy a stone of salt, 
which was doled out to the subscribers 
in small spoonfuls, that no one should 
get more than his due quota. 


Sav’age (2 syl.). One who lives in 
a wood (Greek, Awlé, a forest; Latin, 
silva; Spanish, salvage ; Italian, sel- 
vaggio ; French, sawage). 

Save. 170 save appearances. To do 
something to obviate or prevent exposure 
or embarrassment. 


Save the Mark. In archery when 
an archer shot well it was customary to 
cry out ‘‘ God save the mark! ’?’—i.¢, 
prevent anyone coming after to hit the 
same mark and displace my arrow. 
Ironically it is said to a novice whose 
arrow is nowhere. 

God save the mwvk! (1 Henry IV, i. 
3). Hotspur, apologising to the king 
for not sending the prisoners according 
to command, seys the messenger was 
a ‘‘popinjay,’? who made him mad 
with his unmanly ways, and who talked 
“like a waiting gentlewoman of guns, 
drums, and wounds (God save the 
mark!) ’’—meaning that he himself had 
been in the brunt of battle, and it would 
be sad indeed if ‘‘his mark’’ was dis- 
placed by this court butterfly. It was 
an ejaculation of derision and contempt. 

* So Gn Othello, i. 1) Iago says he 
was ‘‘his Moorship’s ancient; bless the 
mark!’ expressive of derision and con- 
tempt. 

In like manner (in The Merchant of 
Venice, ii, 2), Launcelot Gobbo says his 
master [Shylock] is a kind of devil, 
“(ἀραὶ bless the mark! "ἢ 

So (in Zhe Ring and the Book) Brown- 
ing says: 

“ Deny myself [to] pleasure you, 

The sacred and superior. Save the riark!” 

The Observer (Oct. 26, 1894) speaks of 
‘<the comic operas (save the mark !) that 
have lately been before us.’’ An ejacu- 
lation of derision and contempt. 

And Mr. Chamberlain (in his speech, 
September 5th, 1894) says: 

“The policy of this government, which calls it- 
self (God save the mark!) an English govern- 
MeN bin ΤΕ 

*t Sometimes it refers simply to the 
perverted natural order of things, as 


1106 


Sawdust Parlance 


“ 


‘travelling by night and resting (save 
the mark!) by day.”? (U. δ. Magazine, 
October, 1894.) 

“ And sometimes it is an ejaculated 
prayer to avert the ill omen of an ob- 
servation, as (in Romeo and Juliet) where 
the nurse says : 

“T saw the wonnd, I saw it with mine eyes (God 
saye the mark !) upon his manly breast.” 

Savoir Faire (French). Ready wit; 
skill in getting out of a scrape; hence 
“Vwre de son savoir-faire,” to live by 
one’s wits; ‘‘ Avoir di savoir-faire,”’ 
to be up to snuff, to know a thing or 
two, 

“He had great confidence in his savoir-faire.’~ 
Sir W. Scott: Guy Mannering, chap. Xxxxiy. 

Savoy (Zhe). A precinct of the 
Strand, London, noted for the palace 
of Savoy, originally the seat of Peter, 
Earl of Savoy, who came to England to 
visit his niece Eleanor, wife ot Henry 
III. At the death of the earl the house 
became the property of the queen, who 
gave it to her second son, Edmund 
(Earl of Lancaster), and from this 
period it was attached to the Duchy 
of Lancaster. When the Black Prince 
brought Jean le Bon, King of France, 
captive to London (1356), he lodged him 
in the Savoy Palace, where he remained 
till 1359, wken he was removed to 
Somerton Castle, in Lincolnshire. In 
1360 he was lodged in the Tower ; but, 
two months afterwards, was allowed to 
return to France on certain conditions, 
These conditions being violated by the 
royal hostages, Jean voluntarily re- 
turned to London, and had his old 
quarters again assigned to him, and 
died in 1364. The rebels under Wat 
Tyler burnt down the old palace in 
1381 ; but it was rebuilt in 1505 by 
Henry VII., and converted into a hos- 
pital for the poor, under the name of 
St. John’s Hospital. Charles II. used 
it for wounded soldiers and sailors. St. 
Mary-le-Savoy or the Chapel of St. 
John still stands in the precinct, and 
has recently been restored. 

N.B. Here, in 1552, was established 
the first flint-glass manufactory. 


Saw. In Christian art an attribute 
of St. Simon and St. James the Less, in 
allusion to the tradition of their being 
sawn to death in martyrdom. 


Sawdust Parlance (Jz). Circus 
parlance. Of course, the allusion is to 
the custom of sifting sawdust over the 
arena to prevent the horses from slip- 


ping. 


Sawny 


1107 


Scevola 


Sawny or Sandy. A Scotchman; a 
contraction of ‘‘ Alexander.’’ 


Saxifrage. So called because its 
tender rootlets will penetrate the hardest 
rock, and break it up. 


Saxon Castles. 

Alnwick Castle, given to Ivo de Vesey 
by the Conqueror. 

Bamborough Castle (Northumber- 
land), the palace of the kings of North- 
umberland, and built by King Ida, who 
began to reign 559; now converted into 
charity schools and signal-stations, 

Carisbrook Castle, enlarged by Fitz- 
Osborne, five centuries later. 

Conisborough Castle (York). 

Goodrich Castle (Herefordshire). 

Kenilworth Castle, built by Kenelm, 
King of Mercia. Kenil-worth means 
Kenhelm’s dwelling. 

Richmond Castle (York), belonging to 
the Saxon earl Edwin, given by the 
Conqueror to his nephew Alan, Earl of 
Bretagne; a ruin for three centuries, 
The keep remains. 

Rochester Castle, given to Odo, natural 
brother of the Conqueror. 


Saxon Characteristics (architec- 
tural). 

(1) The quoining consists of a long 
stone set at the ccrner, and a short 
one lying on it and bonding into the 
wall, 

(2) The use of large heavy blocks of 
stone in some parts, while the rest is 
built of Roman bricks. 

(8) An arch with straight sides to the 
upper part instead of curves. 

(4) The absence of buttresses. 

(5) The use in windows of rude 
balusters. 

(6) A rude round staircase west of the 
tower, for the purpose of access to the 
upper floors. 

(7) Rude carvings in imitation of 
Roman work. (Rickman.) 


Saxon Duke (in Hudibras), John 
Frederick, Duke of Saxony, a very cor- 
pulent man. When taken prisoner, 
Charles V. said, “1 have gone hunting 
many a time, but never saw I such a 
swine before.”’ 


Saxon English. The ‘Lord’s 
Prayer” is almost all of it Anglo-Saxon. 
The words trespasses, trespass, and 
temptation are of Latin origin. The 
substitution of ‘‘ debts’’ and ‘‘ debtors ”’ 
(as ‘‘ forgive us our debts as we forgive 
our debtors’) is objectionable. Perhaps 
‘Forgive us our wrongdoings, as we 
forgive them who do wrong to us” 


would be less objectionable. The latter 
clause, ‘‘lead us not into temptation,’’ 
is far more difficult to convert into 
Anglo-Saxon. The best suggestion I 
can think of is ‘‘lead us not in the ways 
of sinners,’’ but the real meaning is 
‘put us not to the test.’”’ We have the 
word assay (Assay us not), which would 
be an excellent translation, but the word 
is not a familiar one. 


Saxon Relics. 

The church of Earl’s Barton (North- 
amptanshire). The tower and west 
doorway. 

The church of St. Michael’s (St. 
Albans), erected by the Abbot of St. 
Albans in 948. 

The tower of Bosham church (Sussex). 

The east side of the dark and principal 
cloisters of Westminster Abbey, from 
the college dormitory on the south to 
the chapter-house on the north. Edward 
the Confessor’s chapel In Westminster 
Abbey, now used as the Pix office. 

The church of Darenth (Kent) con- 
tains some windows of manifest Saxon 
architecture. 

With many others, some of which are 
rather doubtful. 


Saxon Shore. The coast of Nor- 
folk, Suffolk, Essex, Kent, Sussex, and 
Hampshire, where were castles and 
garrisons, under the charge of a count 
or military officer, called Comes Litioris 
Saxonicr per Britanniam. 

Fort Branodunum (Brancaster) was on the 


Norfolk coast. ἣ 
Gariannonum (Burgh) was on the Suffolk 


coast. 

Othona (Ithanchester) was on the Essex 
coast. 

Regulbium (Reculver), Rutupie (Rich- 
borough), Dubris (Dover), P. Lemanis 
(Lyme), were on the Kentish coast. 

Anderida (Hastings or Pevensey), Portus 
Adurni( Worthing), were on the Sussex 
coast, 

Say. To take the say. To taste meat 
or wine before it is presented, in order 
to prove that it is not poisoned. The 
phrase was common in the reign of 
Queen Elizabeth. 

“Nor deem it meet that you to him convey 

The proffered bowl, unless you taste the say.” 

Rose: Orlando Furioso, xxi. 61. 

Sbirri (Italian). A police-force which 
existed in the pope’s dominions, They 
were domiciled in private houses. 

“He points them out to his sbirri and armed 
ruffians.’—Vhe Daily Telegraph. 

Scevola [left-handed]. So Caius 
Mucius was called, because, when he 
entered the camp of Porsenna as a spy, 
and was taken before the king, he 
deliberately held his hand over a lamp 


Scaffold 


1108 


Scapegoat 


till it was burnt off, to show the Etrus- 
can that he would not shrink from 
torture, 


Scaffold, Scaffolding. A temporary 
gallery for workmen. In its seconda 
sense it means the postulates and roug 
scheme of a system or sustained story. 
(French, échafaud, échafaudage.) (See 
CINTER.) 


Scagliola. Imitation marble, like 
the pillars of the Pantheon, London. 
The word is from the Italian seaglia 
(the dust and chips of marble); it is so 
called because the substance (which is 
gypsum and Flanders glue) is studded 
with chips and dust of marble. 


Seales. The Koran says, at the judg- 
ment day everyone will be weighed in 
the seales of the archangel Gabriel. 
His good deeds will be put in the scale 
called ‘‘ Light,’’ and his evil ones in the 
seale called ‘‘ Darkness ;’’ after which 
they will have to cross the bridge Al 
Serat, not wider than the edge of a 
scimitar. The faithful will pass over in 
safety, but the rest will fall into the 
dreary realms of Jehennam. 


Scallop Shell. Emblem of St. James 
of Compostella, adopted, says Erasmus, 
because the shore of the adjacent sea 
abounds in them. Pilgrims used them 
for cup, spoon, and dish; hence the 
punning crest of the Disington family 
is a scallop shell. On returning home, 
the pilgrim placed his scallop shell in 
his hat to command admiration, and 
adopted it in his coat-armour. (Danish, 
schelp, a shell; French, escalope.) 

“T will give thee a palmer’s staff of ivory anda 
seallop-shell of beaten gold."—The Old Wives’ 
Tale. (1595.) 

Scalloped [scollopt]. Having an edge 
like that of a scallop shell. 


Scammoz'zi’s Rule. The jointed 
two-foot rule used by builders, and 
invented by Vincent Scammozzi, the 
famous Italian architect. (1540-1609.) 


Scamp [qui exit ex campo]. A de- 
serter from the field; one who decamps 
without paying his debts. S privative 
and camp. (See SNOB.) 

Scandal means properly a pitfall or 
snare laid for an enemy ; hence a stum- 
bling-block, and morally an aspersion. 
(Greek, skan'dalon.) 


“We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a 


[scandal].""—1 Cor, i. 23. 

The Hill of Scandal, So Milton calls 
the Mount of Olives, because King Solo- 
mon built thereon ‘‘an high place for 


Chemosh, the abomination of Moab; and 
for Moloch, the abomination of the 
children of Ammon ”’ (1 Kings xi. 7). 


Scandal-broth. Tea. The refer- 
ence is to the gossip held by some of the 
womenkind over their ‘‘cups which 
cheer but not inebriate.’? Also called 
““Chatter-broth.”’ 

ΜΕΤ proposed to my venerated visitor... to 
summon my ... housekeeper... with the tea- 
equipage; but he rejected my proposal with 
disdain... .’ ‘No scandal-broth,’ he exclaimed, 
‘No unidea’d woman's chatter for me.’”—Sir W. 
Scott: Peveril of the Peak (Prefatory letter). 

Scan’dalum Magna’tum [scandal of 
the magnates]. Words in derogation 
of peers, judges, and other great officers 
of the realm. What St. Paul calls 
“speaking evil of dignities.”” 


Scanderbeg. A name given by the 
Turks to George Castriota, the patriot 
chief of Epi‘rus, The word is a corrup- 
tion of Iskander-beg, Prince Alexander 
(1414-1467). 


Scanderbeg’s Sword must have 
Scanderbeg’s Arm—i.e. None but 
Ulysses can draw Ulysses’ bow. Scan- 
derbeg is a corruption of Iskander-beg 
(Alexander the Great), not the Mace- 
donian, but George Castriota, Prince 
of Albania, so called by the Turks. 
Mahomet wanted to see his scimitar, but 
when presented no one could draw it ; 
whereupon the Turkish emperor sent 
it back as an imposition ; but Iskander- 
beg replied, he had only sent his ma- 
jesty the sword without sending the 
arm that drew it. (See Rosrn Hoop.) 


Scandinavia. Norway, Sweden, Den- 
mark, and Iceland. Pliny speaks of 
Scandia as an island. 


Scant-of-grace (4). A madcap; a 
wild, disorderly, graceless fellow. 

“You, a gentleman of birth and breeding,.. . 
associate yourself with a sort of scant-of-grace, 
as men call me.’—Sir W. Scott : Kenilworth, iii. 

Scantling, a small quantity, is the 
French échantillon, a specimen or pat- 
tern. 

“A scantling of wit.”’—Dryden. 


Scapegoat. The Biajis or abori- 
genes of Borneo observe a custom bear- 
ing a considerable resemblance to that 
of the scapegoat. They annually launch 
a small bark Jaden with all the sins 
and misfortunes of the nation, which, 
says Dr. Leyden, ‘“‘they imagine will 
fall on the unhappy crew that first 
meets with it.’’ 

The scapegoat of the family. One 
made to bear the blame of the rest of 
the family ; one always chidden and 


Scaphism 


1109 


found fault with, let who may be in 
the wrong. The allusion is to a Jewish 
custom: Two goats being brought to 
the altar of the tabernacle on the Day 
of Atonement, the high priest cast lots ; 
one was for the Lord, and the other for 
Azazel. The goat on which the first 
lot fell was sacrificed, the other was the 
scapegoat ; and the high priest having, 
by confession, transferred his own sins 
and the sins of the people to it, the goat 
was taken to the wilderness and suffered 
to escape. 


Scaph'ism. Locking up a criminal 
in the trunk of a tree, bored through so 
as just to admit the body. Five holes 
were made—one for the head, and the 
others for the hands and legs. These 
parts were anointed with honey to 
invite the wasps. In this situation the 
criminal would linger in the burning 
sun for several days. (Greek, skaphé, 
anything scooped out.) 


Scapin. <A “barber οἵ Seville;”’ 
a knavish valet who makes his master 


his tool. (Moliére: Les Fourberies de 
Scapin.) 
Scar'amouch. A braggart and fool, 


very valiant in words, but a poltroon. 
According to Dyche, the Italian posture- 
master, Tiberio Fiurelli, was surnamed 
Scaramouch Fiurelli. He came to Eng- 
land in 1673, and astonished John Bull 
with feats of agility. 
“ Stout Scaramoucha with rush-lance rode in, 
And ran a tilt with centaure Arlequin.” 
Dryden: Tie Silent Woman (Epilogue), 
Scaramouch Dress (4), in Moliére’s 
time, was black from top to toe ; hence 
he says, ‘‘ Night has put on her ‘scara- 
mouch dress,’ ”’ 


Scarborough Warning. No warn- 
ing at all; blow first, then warning. 
In Scarborough robbers used to be dealt 
with in a very summary manner by a 
sort of Halifax gibbet-law, lynch-law, 
or an @ la lanterne. Another origin is 
given of this phrase: It is said that 
Thomas Stafford, in the reign of Queen 
Mary, seized the castle of Scarborough, 
not only without warning, but even 
before the townsfolk knew he was afoot 
(1557). (See GonE UP.) 

“This term Scarborrow warning grew, some say, 
By hasty hanging for rank robbery there. 
Who that was met, but sus’pect in that way, 

Straight he was trust up, whatever he were.” 
J, Heywood. 

Scarlet. Though your sins be as scarlet, 
they shall be as white as snow (Isa. i. 
18). The allusion is to the scarlet fillet 
tied round the head of the scapegoat. 


Scene Painters 


Though your sins be as scarlet as the 
fillet on the head of the goat to which 
the high priest has transferred the sins 
of the whole nation, yet shall they be 
forgiven and wiped out. 


Searlet (Will). One of the com- 
panions of Robin Hood. 


Scarlet Coat. Worn by fox-hunters. 
(See Rep Coat.) 


Scarlet Woman. Some controversial 
Protestants apply the words to the 
Church of Rome, and some Romanists, 
with equal ‘‘ good taste,’’ apply them 
to London. ‘The Book of Revelation 
says, “1 is that great city which 
reigneth over the kings of the earth,”’ 
and terms the city ““ Babylon”’ (chap. 
XVli.), 

Scavenger’s Daughter. An in- 
strument of torture invented by Sir 
William Skevington, lieutenant of the 
Tower in the reign of Henry VIII. As 
Skevington was the father of the instru- 
ment, the instrument was his daughter. 


Sceatta. Anglo-Saxon for ‘‘ money,’’ 
or a little silver coin. <A sceat was an 
Anglo-Saxon coin. 


Scene Painters. The most cele- 
brated are— 

Inigo Jones, who introduced the first 
appropriate decorations for masques. 

D'Avenant, who produced perspective 
scenes in 1656, for Lhe Siege of Rhodes. 

Betterton was the first to improve the 
scenic effects in ‘‘ Dorset Gardens; ’’ his 
artist was Streater. 

John Rich may be called the great 
reformer of stage scenery in ‘Covent 
Garden.”’ 

Richards, secretary of the Royal Aca- 
demy ; especially successful in The 
Maid of the Mill. His son was one 
of the most celebrated of our scene- 
painters. 

Philip James de Loutherbourg was 
the greatest scene-artist up to Garrick’s 
time. He produced the scenes for The 

“inter’s Tale, at the request of that 
great actor. 

John Kemble engaged William Capon, 
a pupil of Novosielski, to furnish him 
with scenery for Shakespeare’s historic 
plays. 

Patrick Nasmyth, in the North, pro- 
duced several unrivalled scenes. 

Stanfield is well known for his scene 
of Acis and Galate'a. 

William Beverley is the greatest 
scene-painter of modern times. 

Frank Hayman, Thomas Dall, John 


Scene Plot 


1110 


Schoolmen 


Laguerre, William Hogarth, sobert 
Dighton, Charles Dibdin, David Roberts, 
Grieve, and Phillips have all aided in 
improving scene-painting. 


Scene Plot. (See Por.) 


Scent. We are not yet on the right 
seent. We have not yet got the right 
clue. The allusion is to dogs following 
game by their scent. 


Sceptic (Greek) means one who 
thinks for himself, and does not receive 
onanother’s testimony. Pyrrho founded 
the philosophic sect called ‘‘ Sceptics,”’ 
and Epictetus combated their dogmas. 
In theology we apply the word to those 
who will not accept & 27 elation. 


Sceptre. That of Agamemnon is the 
most noted. Homer says it was made 
by Vulcan, who gave it to the son of 
Saturn. It then passed successively to 
Jupiter, to Mercury, to Pelops, to 
Atreus (2 syl.), to Thyestes (3 syl.), and 
then to Agamemnon. It was found at 
Phocis, whither it bad been taken by 
Electra. It was looked on with great 
reverence, and several miracles are at- 
tributed to it. It was preserved for 

nany years after the time of Homer, 
ut ultimately disappeared. 


Scheherazade [ She-he'-ra-zay'-de]. 
Daughter of the Grand Vizier of the 
Indies. The Sultan Schahriah, having 
discovered the infidelity of his sultana, 
resolved to marry a fresh wife every 
night and have her strangled at day- 
break. Scheherazade entreated to become 
his wife, and so amused him with 
tales for a thousand and one nights 
that he revoked his cruel decree, be- 
stowed his affection on his amiable and 
talented wife, and called her ‘the 
liberator of the sex.’? (Arabian Nights.) 


Schel’trum., An army drawn up in 
a circle instead of in a square. 


Scheme is something entertained. 
Scheme is a Greek word meaning what 
is had or held (sche’o) ; and entertain is 
the Latin tenga, to have or hold, also. 


Schiedam. Hollands gin, so called 
from Schiedam, a town where it is prin- 
cipally manufactured. 

Schiites. (Sce SurITEs.) 

Schliem’ihl (Peter). The name of a 
man who sold his shadow to the devil, 
in Chamisso’s tale so called. It is a 
synonym for any person who makes a 
desperate and silly bargain. 

Scholas'tic. Anselm of Laon, Doc- 
tor Scholasticus, (1050-1117.) 


Epipha'nius the Scholastic. An Italian 
scholar. (Sixth century.) 

Scholastic Divinity. Divinity sub- 
jected to the test of reason and ar- 
gument, or at least ‘‘ darkened by the 
counsel of words,”? The Athanasian 
creed is a favourable specimen of this 
attempt to reduce the mysteries of 
religion to ‘‘right reason;’’ and the 
attempts to reconcile the Mosaic cos- 
mogony with modern geology smack of 
the same school. 


Schools. 

The six old schools: Eton, Harrow, 
Winchester, Charterhouse, Westminster, 
and Rugby. 

* Some add St. Paul’s, Merchant 
Taylors’, and Shrewsbury. 

The six modern schools : Marlborough, 
Wellington, Clifton, Cheltenham, Rep- 
ton, and Haileybury. 

* Charterhouse has been removed to 
the hills of Surrey. 

St. Paul’s has migrated to the West 
End. 


Schcolmaster Abroad (Zhe). Lord 
Brougham said, in a speech (Jan. 29, 
1828) on the general diffusion of edu- 
cation, and of intelligence arising there- 
from, ‘‘ Let the soldier be abroad, if 
he will; he can do nothing in this age. 
There is another personage abroad .. . 
the schoolmaster is abroad; and I 
trust to him, armed with his primer, 
against the soldier in full military 
array.”’ 

Schoolmen. Certain theologians of 
the Middle Ages ; so called because they 
lectured in the cloisters or cathedral 
schools founded by Charlemagne and his 
immediate successors. They followed 
the fathers, from whom they differed in 
reducing every subject to a system, and 
may be grouped under three periods— 

First Period. PLavonists (from ninth 
to twelfth century). 

(1) Pierre Abélard (1079-1142). 

(2) Flacius Albinus Alcuin (735-804). 

(3) John Scotus Erigéna. 

(4) Anselm. Doctor Scholasticus. (1050- 
1117. 

(5) Berenga’rius of Tours (1000-1088). 
(6) Gerbert of Aurillac, afterwards 
Pope Sylvester IT. (930-1003). 

(7) John of Salisbury (1110-1180), 

(8) Lanfrane, Archbishop of Canter- 
bury. (1005-1089.) 

(9) Pierre Lombard. Master of the 
Sentences, sometimes called the founder 
of school divinity. (1100-1164.) 

(10) John Roscelinus (eleventh cen- 
tury). 


Schoolmistress 


Second Period, or Golden Age of Scho- 
lasticism. ARISTOTELIANS (thirteenth 
and fourteenth centuries). 

(1) Alain de Lille. Universal Doctor. 
(1114-1203.) 

(2) Albertus Magnus, of Padua, (11938- 


1280.) 
(3) Thomas Aquinas. Zhe Angelic 
Arch- 


Doctor. (1224-1274.) 

(4) Augustine  Trinmphans, 
bishop of Aix. Zhe Eloquent Doctor, 

(5) John Fidanza Bonaventure, Zhe 
Seraphie Doctor, (1221-1274.) 

(6) Alexander of Hales. Irrefrangible 
Doctor. (Died 1245.) 

(7) John Duns Scotus. The Subtle 
Doctor, (1265-1308.) 

Third Period, NoMInauisM REVIVED. 
(To the seventeenth century.) 

(1) Thomas de Bradwardine. The 
Profound Doctor, (1290-1348.) 

(2) John Buridan (1295-1360). 

(8) William Durandus de Pourcain. 
The Most Resolving or Resolute Doctor. 
(Died 1332.) 

(4) Giles, Archbishop of Bourges. The 
Doctor with Good Foundation. 

(5) Gregory of Rim'ini. The Authentic 
Doctor. (Died 1357.) 

_(6) Robert Holkot. 
vine. 

(7) Raymond Lully. The Illwninated 
Doctor. (1234-1315.) 

(8) Francis Mairon, of Digne, in Pro- 
vence. 

(9) Wiliam Oceam. The Singular or 
Invincible Doctor, (Died 1347.) 

(10) Frangois Suarez, the last of the 
schoolmen. (1548-1617.) 


Schoolmistress (716), by Shenstone, 
is designed for a ‘portrait of Sarah 
Lloyd,’’ the dame who first taught the 
poet himself. She lived in a thatched 
house before which grew a birch tree. 


Scian. (See CEAN.) 


Science. The Gay Science or ‘‘ Gay 
Saber.’’? The poetry of the Troubadours, 
and in its extended meaning poetry 
generally. 


An English di- 


Science Persecuted. 


(1) Anaxagoras of Clazom’ene held 
Opinions in natural science so far in 
advance of his age that he was accused 
of impiety, thrown into prison, and con- 
demned to death. Pericles, with great 
difficulty, got his sentence commuted to 
fine and banishment. 

(2) Virgilius, Bishop of Salzburg, de- 
nounced as a heretic by St. Boniface 
for asserting the existence of antipodes. 
(Died 784.) 


1111 


Scipio 


(3) Galileo was imprisoned by the 
Inquisition for maintaining that the 
earth moved. In order to get his 
liberty he ‘‘abjured the heresy,’’ but 
as he went his way whispered half- 
audibly, ‘* 2 par si muove’’ (‘but 
nevertheless it does move’’), (1564- 
1642.) 

(4) Gebert, who introduced algebra 
into Christendom, was accused of dealing 
in the black arts, and shunned as a 
magician. 

(5) Friar Bacon was excommunicated 
and imprisoned for diabolical know- 
ledge, chiefly on account of his chemical 
researches. (1214-1294.) 

(6) Dr. Faust, the German philo- 
sopher, suffered in a similar way in the 
sixteenth century. 

(7) John Dee. (See DEE.) 

(8) Robert Grosseteste. 
TED.) 

(9) Averroes, the Arabian philosopher, 
who flourished in the twelfth century, 
was denounced as a heretic and degraded 
solely on account of his great eminence 
in natural philosophy and medicine. 
(He died 1226.) 

(10) Andrew Crosse, electrician, who 
asserted that he had seen certain ani- 
mals of the genus Acarus, which had 
been developed by him out of inorganic 
elements. Crosse was accused of im- 
piety, and was shunned as a ‘‘ profane 
man,’’ who wanted to arrogate to him- 
self the creative power of God. (1784- 
1855.) 


Scien’ter Nes’ciens et Sapien’te 
Indoctus was how Gregory the Great 
described St. Benedict. 


Scio’s Blind Old Bard. Homer. 
Scio is the modern name of Chios, in the 
/Kge'an Sea. 

“Smyrna, Chios, Colophon’, Salamis’, Rhodos, 
Argos, Athe‘nie, 

Your just right to call Homer your son you 

must settle hetween ye.” 


(See GRos- 


Scipio dismissed the Iberian 
Maid (Paradise Regained, ii.). Referring 
to the tale that the conqueror of Spain 
not only refused to see a beautiful prin- 
cess who had fallen into his power after 
the capture of New Carthage, but that 
he restored her to her parents, and ac- 
tually gave her great presents that she 
might marry the man to whom she had 
been betrothed. (See CONTINENCE.) 

The Lusian Scipio. Nunio. 

“The Lusian Scipio well may speak his fame, 

But nobler Nunio shinesa greater name ; 
On earth's green bosom, or on ocean grey, 


A greater never shall the sun survey.” 
Camoens : Lusiad, bk, viii, 


Scissors to Grind 


1112 


Scotch Breakfast 


Scissors to Grind. Work to do; 
purpose to serve. 

“That the Emperor of Austria [in the Servian 
and Bulgarian war, 1885] has his own scissors to 
grind goes without saying ; but for the present it 
is Russia who keeps the ballrolling.”—Newspaper 
parugraph, November, 1885. 

Sclavon'ic. The language spoken 
by the Russians, Servians, Poles, Bohe- 
mians, etc. ; anything belonging to the 
Sclavi. 


Scobellum. A very fruitfulland, but 
the inhabitants ‘‘ exceeded the cannibals 
for cruelty, the Persians for pride, the 
Egyptians for luxury, the Cretans for 
lying, the Germans for drunkenness, and 
all nations together for a generality of 
vices.” In vengeance the gods changed 
all the people into beasts: drunkards 
into swine, the lecherous into goats, the 
proud into peacocks, scolds into mag- 
pies, gamblers into asses, musicians into 
song-birds, the envious into dogs, 1.116 
women into milch-cows, jesters into 
monkeys, dancers into squirrels, and 
misers into moles. Four of the Cham- 
pions of Christendom restored them to 
their normal forms by quenching the fire 
of the Golden Cave.”? (Zhe Seven Cham- 
pions of Christendom, 111. 10.) 


Scone (pron. Sioon). Edward I. re- 
moved to London, and placed in West- 
minster Abbey, the great stone upon 
which the kings of Scotland were wont 
to be crowned. This stone is still pre- 
served, and forms the support of Edward 
the Confessor’s chair, which the British 
monarchs occupy at their coronation. 
It is said to have been brought from 
Ireland by Fergus, son of Eric, who led 
the Dalriads to the shores of Argyll- 
shire. (See TANIST-STONE.) 

“Ni fallat fatum, Scoti, quocunque locatum 

Invenient lapidem, regnare tenentur ihbidem.” 

Lardner, i. p. 67. 

Unless the fates are faithless found 

And prophets’ voice be vain, 
Where’er is placed this stone, e’en there 
The Scottish race shall reign. 

Score. <A reckoning; to make a 
reckoning ; so called from the custom 
of marking off ‘‘runs’’ or ‘‘ lengths,’’ in 
games by the score feet. (See Nur, 
SPELL, TALLY.) 


Scornful Dogs will eat dirty 
Puddings. In emergency men will do 
many things they would scorn to do in 
easy circumstances. Darius and Alex- 
ander will drink dirty water and think 
it nectar when distressed with thirst. 
Kings and queens, to make good their 
escape in times of danger, will put on 
the most menial disguise. And hungry 


men will not be over particular as to 
the food they eat. 


“All nonsense and pride, said the laird. ... 
*Scornful dogs will eat dirty puddings.’ ”"—Sir W. 
Scott : Redgauntlet, chap. xi. 

Scor’pion. It is said that scorpions 
have an oil which is a remedy against 
their stings. The toad also is said to 
have an antidote to its ‘‘ venom.”’ 

“oTis true, a scorpion’s oil is said 

To cure the wounds the venom made, 

And weapons dressed with salves restore 

And heal the hurts they gave before.” 

Butler: Hudibras, iii. 2. 

Scor’pions. Whips armed with metal 
or knotted cords, 

“My father chastised you with whips, but I will 
chastise you with scorpions.’”’—1 Kings xii. 11. 

Scot. The same as Scythian in ety- 
mology ; the root of both is Sct. The 
Greeks had no ὁ, and would change ¢ 
into th, making the root sith, and by 
adding a phonetic vowel we get Skuth-ui 
(Scythians), and Soth-ai (Scoths). The 
Welsh disliked s at the beginning of a 
word, and would change it to ys; they 
would also changed cor ἢ; to g, and th to 
d; whence the Welsh root would be 
Ysgd, and Skuth or Skoth would become 
ysgod. Once more, the Saxons would 
cut off the Welsh y, and change the 
g back again to ὁ, and the d to ¢, con- 
verting the Ysgod to Scot. 

N.B. Before the third century Scot- 
land was called Caledonia or Alban. 


Scot-free. Tax-free, without pay- 
ment. (See below.) 


Scot and Lot. A levy on all sub 
jects according to their ability to pay. 
Scot means tribute or tax, and lot means 
allotment or portion allotted. To pry 
scot and lot, therefore, is to pay the 
ordinary tributes and also the personal 
tax allotted to you. 


Scots Greys. The 2nd Dragoons, 
the colour of whose horses is grey. 
(Heavy-armed.)} 


Scots wha hae. Words by Robert 
Burns, to the music of an old Scotch 
tune called Hey Tuttie Taittie. The 
Land οὗ the Leal is to the same tune. 


Scotch. The people or language of 
Scotland. 

Highland Scotch. Scottish Gaelic. 

Lowland Scotch. The English dialect 
spoken in the lowlands of Scotland. 

* Broad Scotch. he official lan- 
guage of Scotland in the fifteenth and 
sixteenth centuries. Sometimes used in 
novels and in verse. 


Scotch Breakfast (4). A substan- 
tial breakfast of sundry sorts of good 


Scotch Mist 


things to eat and drink. The Scotch are 
famous for their breakfast-tables and 
tea-fights. No people in the world are 
more hospitable, 


Scotch Mist. A thick fog with 
drizzling rain, common in Scotland. 


“A Scotch fog will wet an Englishman through.” 


—Common saving. 
Scotch Pint (4). A Scotch pint = 


2 English quarts. 


Scotch Pound (4) was originally of 
the same value as an English pound, but 
after 1355 it gradually depreciated, until 
in 1600 it was but one-twelfth of the 
value of an English pound, that is 
about 15. 8d. 


Scotch Shilling = a penny sterling. 
The Scotch pound in 1600 was worth 
20d., and as it was divided into twenty 
shillings, it follows that a Scotch shilling 
was worth one penny English. 


Sco’tia. Now applied poetically to 
Scotland, but at one time Ireland was so 
called. Hence Claudius says— 

τ pen Scots came thundering from the Irish 
Nd ocean trembled, struck with hostile oars.” 

Scotists. Followers of Duns Scotus, 
who maintained the doctrine of the Im- 
maculate Conception in opposition to 
Thomas Aqui’nas. 

“ Scotists and Thomists now in peace remain.” 
Pope: Essay on Criticism, 

Scotland. St. Andrew is the patron 
saint of this country, and tradition says 
that the remains of the apostle were 
brought by Reg’ulus, a Greek monk, to 
the eastern coast of Fife in 363. (See 
Rute, St.) 

Scotland a fief of England. Edward 
I, founded his claim to the lordship of 
Scotland on these four grounds :—(1) 
the ancient chroniclers, who state that 
Scotch kings had occasionally paid 
homage to the English sovereigns from 
time immemorial. Extracts are given 
from St. Alban, Marianus Scotus, Ralph 
of Diceto, Roger of Hoveden, and Wil- 
liam of Malmesbury, (2) From charters 
of Scotch kings: as those of Edgar, son 
of Malcolm, William, and his son Alex- 
ander II, (9) From papal rescripts: as 
those of Honorius III., Gregory IX., and 
Clement IV. (4) By an extract from 
The Life and Miracles of St. John of 
Beverley. The tenor of this extract is 

uite suited to this Dictionary of Fable: 
n the reign of Adelstan the Scots in- 
vaded England and committed great 
devastation. Adelstan went to drive 
them back, and, on reaching the Tyne, 


1113 


Scourge of God 


=k 


found that the Scotch had retreated. 
At midnight St. John of Beverley ap- 
peared to him, and bade him cross the 
river at daybreak, for he ‘‘should dis- 
comfit the foe.’? Adelstan obeyed the 
vision, and reduced the whole kingdom 
to subjection. On reaching Dunbar on 
his return march, he prayed that some 
sign might bevouchsafed to him to satisfy 
all ages that ‘God, by the intercession 
of St. John, had given him the kingdom 
of Scotland.’? Then struck he with his 
sword the basaltic rocks near the coast, 
and the blade sank into the solid flint 
‘Sas if it had been butter,’’ cleaving it 
asunder for ‘“‘an ell or more,’’ and the 
cleft remains even to the present hour, 
Without doubt there is a fissure in the 
basalt, and how could it have come there 
except in the way recorded above ? And 
how could a sword cut three feet deep 
into a hard rock without miraculous aid ? 
And what could such a miracle have 
been vouchsafed for, except to show that 
Adelstan was rightful lord of Scotland ? 
And if Adelstan was lord, of course Ed- 
ward should be so likewise. Q. E. D. 
(Rymer : Federa, vol, i. pt. ii. p. 771.) 

Scotland Yard (London). So called 
from a palace built there for the recep- 
tion of the kings of Scotland when they 
visited England. Pennant tells us it was 
originally given by King Edgar to Ken- 
neth of Scotland when he came to Lon- 
don to pay homage. 

Scotland Yard. The headquarte.s of 
the Metropolitan Police, whence all 
public orders to the force proceed. 

“Mr. Walpole has only to spexk the word in 
Scotland Yard, and the parks will be cleared.”’— 
Pull Mall Gazette. 

Scott. The Walter Scott of Belgiun. 
Hendrick Conscience. (Born 1812.) 

The Southern Scott. Word Byron calls 
Ariosto the Sir Walter Scott of Italy. 
(Childe Harold, iv. 40.) 


Scotus (Duns). Died 130). His 
epitaph at Cologne is— 
“Scotia me genuit, Anglia me suscep*t, 
Gallia me docuit, Colonia me tenet.’ 
Scourge of Christians. Noured- 


din-Mahmid of Damascus. (1116-1174.) 


Scourge of God. (1) Attila, king of 
the Huns. A. P. Stanley says the term 
was first applied to Attila in the Hungar- 
jan Chronicles. In Isidore’s Chronicle 
the Huns are called Tiga Dei. (*, 
434-453.) 

(2) Gen’seric, king of the Vandals, 
who went about like a destroying angel 
“against all those who had, in his 
opinion, incurred the wrath of God.” 


Scourge of Princes 


1114 


Screw Plot 


(Probably the word Godegesal (Goth- 
gesal, God-given) was purposely twisted 
into God-gesil (God’s scourge) by those 
who hated him, because he was an Arian. 
God-gesal (or Deoda’ tus) was the common 
title of the contemporary kings, like our 
Dei Gratid. (*, 429-477.) 

Scourge of Princes. Pietro Are- 
tino was so called for his satires. (1492- 
1556.) 

Seouring. J ’scaped a scowring—a 
disease. Scouring is a sort of flux in 
horses and cattle. (Latin, MWalwn pre- 
tervehi ; French, L’échapper belle.) 


Scowerers. A set of rakes in the 
eighteenth century, who, with the Nic’- 
kers and Mohocks, committed great an- 
noyances in London and other large 
towns. 

“Who has not heard the Scowerers’ midnight 
fame? “" 

Who has not trembled at the Mohocks’ name ? 

Was therea watchman took his hourly rounds, 

Safe from their blows and new-invented 

wounds ?” Gay: Trivia, iii. 

Serape. J’ve got into a sad scrape 
—a reat difficulty. We use rub, squeeze, 
pinch, and scrape to express the same 
idea. Thus Shakespeare says, ‘‘ Ay, 
there’s the rub”’ (difficulty); “1 have 
got into tribulation”’ (a squeeze, from 
the Latin ¢tiib'ulo, to squeeze) ; “1 am 
come to a pinch”? (a difficulty). Some 
think the word a corrupt contraction of 
escapade, but Robert Chambers thinks it 
is borrowed from aterm in golf. A rab- 
bit’s burrow in Scotland, he says, is called 
a ‘‘scrape,’’? and if the ball gets into 
such a holeit can hardly be played. The 
rules of the game allow something to the 
player who ‘‘ gets into a scrape.’’ (Book 
of Days.) 

Serape an Acquaintance (70). The 
Gentleman's Magazine says that Hadrian 
went one day to the public baths, and 
saw an old soldier, well known to him, 
scraping himself with a potsherd for 
want of a flesh-brush. The emperor 
sent him a sum of money. Next day 
Hadrian found the bath crowded with 
soldiers scraping themselves with pot- 
sherds, and said, ‘‘ Scrape on, gentlemen, 
but you'll not scrape acquaintance with 
me.” (δε ὅ., Ξεα σῖκ. 29,095) 

Seratch. Old Scratch. Scrat, the 
house-demon of the North. (Icelandic, 
scratti, an imp.) (See DEucE, Nick, etc.) 

Scratch (4). One who in a race 
starts from the scratch, other runners in 
the same race being a yard or so in ad- 
vance. The scratch runner generally is 
one who has already won a similar race, 


Coming up to the scratch—up to the 
mark; about to do what we want him 
to do. In prize-fighting a line is scratched 
on the ground, and the toe of the fighter 
must come up to the scratch. 


Scratch Cradle. A game played 
with a piece of string stretched across the 
two hands. The art is so to cross the 
thread as to produce a resemblance to 
something, and for another so to transfer 
it to his own hands as to change the 
former figure into some other resem- 
blance. A corruption of ‘‘ cratch cradle ”’ 
(the manger cradle), because the first 
figure represents a cradle, supposed to 
be the cradle of the infant Jesus, 


Scratch Crew (4), in a boat-race, 
means a random crew; not a regular 
crew. 


Scratch Eleven (4), or “scratch 
team,’’ in cricket, means eleven men 
picked up anyhow ; not a regular team. 


Seratch Race (4). A race of horses, 
men, boys, etc., without restrictions as 
to age, weight, previous winnings, etc. 


Scratched. A horse is said to be 
scratched when its name 18. scratched 
out of the list of runners. ‘‘ Tomboy 
was scratched for the Derby at ten a.m. 
on Wednesday,” and no bet on that horse 
made subsequently would be valid. 


Screw (4), meaning asmall quantity, 
is in allusion to the habit of putting a 
small quantity of small articles into a 
“screw of paper.”’ 

An old screw. One who keeps his 
money tight, and doles it out in screws 
or small quantities. 

To put on the screw. To press for pay- 
ment, as a screw presses by gradually- 
increasing pressure. 

Raised your screw, 
wages. 

“*Has Tom got his screw raised ?’ said Milton.” 
—Truth : Queer Story, 18th February, 1836. 

Screw Loose (4). Something amiss. 
The allusion is to joinery kept together 
by screws. 

Screw Plot (Zhe). 1708, when Queen 
Anne went to St. Paul’s to offer thanks- 
givings for the victory of Oudenarde. 
The tale is that the plotters took out 
certain screw-bolts from the beams of 
the cathedral, that the roof might fall on 
the queen and her suite and kill them. 


“ Some of your Machiavelian crew 
From heavy roof of Paul 
Most traitorously stole every screw, 
To make that fabric fall ; 
And so to catch Her Majesty, 
And all her friends beguile.” 
Plot upon Plot (about 1718), 


Raised your 


Screwed 


Screwed. Intoxicated. A playful 
synonym of tight, which again is a play- 
ful synonym of blown out. 

Screwed on Right. His head was 
screwed on right. He was clear-headed 
and right-thinking. 

“His heart was in the right place... and his 
head was screwed on right, too.”—Boldrewood: 
Robbery under Arms, Xv. 

Screwed on the wrong way. Crotchety, 
ungainly, not right. 


Scribe (1 syl.), in the New Testa- 
ment, means a doctor of thelaw. Thus, 
in Matthew xxii. 35, we read, ‘t Then one 
of them, which was a lawyer, asked Him, 
Which is the great commandment of the 
law ?’? Mark (xii. 28) says, ‘‘ One of 
the scribes came and asked Him, Which 
is the first commandment of all? ’’ 

In the Old Testament the word is used 
more widely, Thus Seraiah is called the 
scribe (secretary) of David (2 Sam. viii. 
17); in the Book of Chronicles ‘ Jael 
the scribe’? was an officer in the king’s 
army, who reviewed the troops and 


called over the muster-roll, Jonathan, 
Baruch, Gemariah, etc., who were 
princes, were called scribes. Ezra, how- 


ever, called ‘‘a ready scribe in the law 
of Moses,’’ accords with the New Testa- 
ment usage of the word. 


Scrible’rus (Martinus). A merciless 
satire on the false taste in literature cur- 
rent in the time of Pope. Cornelius 
Scrible'rus, the father of Martin, was a 
pedant, who entertained all sorts of ab- 
surdities about the education of his son. 
Martin grew up a man of capacity; but 
though he had read everything, his judg- 
ment was vile and taste atrocious. 


Scrimmage. A tussle; a slight 
battle. From the obsolete serimer, a 
fencer ; French, escrimeur ; same root as 
escarmouch, our skirmish, 


“ Prince EAU at this skrymage, for all his 
pryde, 
Fled full fast and sought no guide.” 
MS. Lansdowne, 200, f. 10. 


Scripto’res Decem. A collection of 
ten ancient chronicles on English his- 
tory, edited by Roger Twysden and John 
Selden. The ten chroniclers are Simeon 
of Durham, John of Hexham, Richard 
of Hexham, Ailred of Rieval, Ralph de 
Diceto (Archdeacon of London), John 
Brompton of Jorval, Gervase of Canter- 
bury, Thomas Stubbs, William Thorn of 
Canterbury, and Henry Knighton of 
Leicester, 


Scripto’res Quingue. A collection 
of five chronicles on the early history of 
England, edited by Thomas Gale. 


1115 


Scutch 


Seripto'res Tres [the three writers]. 
Meaning Richard of Cirencester, Gildas 
Badon'icus, and Nennius of Bangor. 
Julius Bertram, professor of English at 
Copenhagen, professed to have discovered 
the first of these treatises in 1747, in the 
royal library of that city. Its subject is 
De Situ Britannie, and in 1757 he 
published it along with the two other 
treatises, calling the whole The Three 
Writers on the Ancient History of the 
British Nations. Bertram’s forgery was 
completely exposed by J. E. Mayor, 
in his preface to Ricardi de Cirencestria 
Speculum Historiale. (See SANCHONI- 
ATHO. ) 

Scripto'rium. An apartment in 
every abbey where writers transcribed 
service-books for the choir and books for 
the library. (/Varton.) 


Scriptures. (Sce SEVEN BIBLES.) 


Scu’damore (Si7). The lover of 
Am'oret, whom he finally marries. 
(Spenser : Faerie Queene, book iii. iv.) 

Scudding under Bare Poles. In 
seaman’s language to scud means to 
drive before a gale with no sails, or only 
just enough to keep the vessel ahead of 
the sea; ‘‘scudding under bare poles”’ 
is being driven by the wind so violently 
that no sail at all is set. Figuratively it 
means to cut and run so precipitately as 
to leave no trace behind. 


Scuilabogue Massacre. In the 
Trish rebellion of 1798 Scullabogue 
House, Wexford, was seized by the rebels 
and used for a prison. Some thirty or 
forty prisoners confined in it were 
brought out and shot in cold blood, 
when the news of a repulse of the rebels 
at New Ross arrived (5th June, 98). 
The barn at the back of the house was 
filled with prisoners and set on fire, and 
Taylor, in his history, written at the 
time and almost on the spot, puts the 
number of victims at 184, and he gives 
the names of several of them. 


Sculls. (See DIAMOND . . .) 
Sculpture. Fathers of French sculp- 
tune. 


Jean Goujon (1510-1572). 
Germain Pilon (1515-1590). 


Seutch. The scrapings of hides; 
also refuse of flax. (English, scotch, to 
cut; Saxon, sceadan.) We have the 
word in the expression, ‘‘ You have 
scotched the snake, not killed it.’’ 


“About half a mile from the southern outfall 
are two manufactories, where the refuse from the 
London tanneries, known as scutch, is operated 
upon.”—The Times. 


Scuttle 


1116 


Sea Deities 


Scuttle. 70 scuttle a ship is to bore 
a hole in it in order to make it sink. 
Rather strangely, this word is from the 
same root as our word shut or bolt (Saxon 
scyttel, a lock, bolt, or bar). It was first 
applied to a hole in a roof with a door or 
lid, then to a hatchway in the deck of a 
ship with a lid, then to a hole in the 
bottom of a ship plugged up ; then comes 
the verb to pull out the plug, and leave 
the hole for the admission of water. 

Scuttle (of coals, etc.) is the Anglo- 
Saxon, scutel, a basket. 

“The Bergen [Norway] fishwomen .. . in every 
direction are coming... with their scuttles 
swinging on theirarms. In Bergen fish is never 
carried in any other way.’ —H. H, Jackson: 
Glimpses of Three Coasts, pt. ili. p. 235. 

Scuttle Out (70). To sneak off 
quickly, to skedaddle, to cut and run. 
Anglo-Saxon sccotan, to flee precipi- 
tately ; scitel, an arrow; sceota, a dart- 
ing fish, like the trout ; scot, an arrow, 
ete: 


Scylla, daughter of Nisus, promised 
to deliver Meg’ara into the hands of 
Minos. To redeem ttis promise she had 
to cut off a golden hair on her father’s 
head, which she effected while he was 
asleep. Minos, her lover, despised her 
for this treachery, and Scylla threw her- 
self from a rock into the sea. At death 
she was changed into a lark, and Nisus 
into a hawk. Scylla turned into a rock 
by Circe ‘‘has no connection’? with 
the daughter of Nisus. 

“Think of Seylla’s fate. 
Changed toa bird, and sent to fly in air, 
She dearly pays for Nisus’ injured hair.” 
Pope: Rape of the Lock, iii. 

Secylla. Glaucus, a fisherman, was in 
love with Scylla; but Circé, out of 
jealousy, changed her into a hideous 
monster, and set dogs and wolves to bark 
round her incessantly. On this Scylla 
threw herself into the sea and became a 
rock. It is said that the rock Scylla 
somewhat resembles a woman at a dis- 
tance, and the noise of the waves dashing 
against it is not unlike the barking of 
dogs and wolves. 

“Glaucus, lost to joy, 

Curst in his love by vengeful Circé’s hate, 
Attending wept his Scylla’s hapless fate.” | 
Camoens : Lusiad, bk. vi. 

Avoiding Scylla, he fell into Charybdis. 
Trying to avoid one error, he fell into 
another ; or, trying to avoid one danger, 
he fell into another equally fatal. Scylla 
and Charybdis are two rocks between 
Italy and Sicily. In one was a cave 
where ‘‘Scylla dwelt,” and on the other 
Charybdis dwelt under a fig-tree. Ships 
which tried to avoid one were often 
wrecked on the other rock. It was Circe 


who changed Scylla into a frightful sea- 
monster, and Jupiter who changed Cha- 
rybdis into a whirlpool. 

“When I shun Scylla your father, I fall into 
Charybdis your mother.”—Shakespeare: Merchant 
of Venice, iil. 5. 

Between Scylla and Charybdis. Be- 
tween two difficulties or fatal works. 

To fall fromScyllainto Charybdis—out 
of the frying-pan into the fire. 


Scythian or Tartarian Lamb (77). 
Agnus Scythicus, a kind of fern, called 
the borametz, or polypodium of Cayenne. 
It is said to resemble a lamb, and even 
in some cases to be mistaken for one, 


Scythian Defiance. When Darius 
approached Scythia, an ambassador was 
sent to his tent with a bird, a frog, a 
mouse, and five arrows, then left without 
uttering a word. Darius, wondering 
what was meant, was told by Gobrias it 
meant this: Either fly away like a bird, 
and hide your head in a hole like a 
mouse, or swim across the river, or in 
five days you will be laid prostrate by 
the Scythian arrows. 


Sea. Any large collection of water, 
more or less enclosed ; hence the expres- 
sion ‘‘molten sea,’? meaning the great 
brazen vessel which stood in Solomon’s 
temple (2 Chronicles iv. 5, and 1 Kings 
vii. 26). We have also the Mediter- 
ranean Sea, the Black Sea, the White 
Sea, the Red Sea, the Sea of Galilee, the 
Dead Sea, etc.; and even the Nile, the 
Euphrates, and the Tigris are some- 
times called seas by the prophets. The 
world of water is the ocean. (Anglo- 
Saxon, sae.) 

The Old Man of the sea (Arabian 
Nights). A creature encountered by 
Sinbad the Sailor in his fifth voyage. 
This terrible Old Man contrived to get 
on the back of Sinbad, and would 
neither dismount again nor could he 
be shaken off. At last Sinbad gave 
him some wine to drink, which so in- 
toxicated him that he relaxed his grip, 
and Sinbad made his escape. 

At sea. Quite at sea. Wide of the 
mark; quite wrong; like a person in 
the open ocean without compass or chart. 


Sea-blue Bird of March (Zhe). 
The wheatear, not the kingfisher. 


Sea Deities. 

Amphitrite (4 syl.). Wife of Posei- 
don (3 syl.), queen goddess of the sea. 

N.B. Neptune had no wife. 

Doto, a sea-nymph, mentioned by 
Virgil. 

Galatéa, a daughter of Nereus. 


Sea-girt Isle 


1117 


Sebastian 


Glaucus, a fisherman of Beeotia, after- 
wards a marine deity. 

Ino, who threw herself from a rock 
into the sea, and was made a sea- 
goddess. 

Neptune (2 syl.), king of the ocean. 

The Nereids (3 syl.) or Neréides (4 
syl.), fifty in number. 

Nereus (2 syl.) ard his wife Doris. 
Their palace was at the bottom of the 
Mediterranean Sea, His hair was sea- 
weeds. 

Oceainos and his wife Tethys. Oce&nos 
was not god of the sea, but of the 
ocean, supposed to form a boundary 
round the world. 

Oceanides (4 syl.). 
Oceinos. 

Palémon, the Greek Portumnus. 

Portumnus, the protector of harbours. 

Poseidon (3 syl.), the Greek Neptune. 

Proteus (2 syl.), who assumed every 
variety of shape. 

Sirens (The). 
charmed by song. 

Tethys, wife of Oceanos, and daughter 
of Uranus and Terra. 

Thetis, a daughter of Nereus and 
mother of Achillés. 

Triton, son of Poseidon (3 syl.). 

~ The Naiads or Naiides (3 syl.) were 
river nymphs. 

Sea-girt Isle. England. Socalled be- 
cause, as Shakespeare has it, it is ‘‘ hedged 
in with the main, that water-walléd bul- 
wark” (King John, ii. 1). 

“ This precious stone set in the silver sea, 

Which serves it in the office of a wall, 

Or as a moat defensive to a house, 

Against the envy of less happier lands.” 
Shakespeare: King Richard IT., ii. 1. 

Sea-green Incorruptible (7/e). So 
Carlyle called Robespierre in his French 
Revolution. 


“The song is a short one, and may perhaps 
serve to qualify our judgment of the ‘sea-green 


Daughters of 


Sea nymphs who 


incorruptible. ”’— Notes and Queries, September 
19th, 1891, p, 225, 
Sea Legs. He has got his sea legs. 


Is able to walk on deck when the ship 
is rolling ; able to bear the motion of the 
ship without sea-sickness. 


Sea Serpent. Pontoppidan, in his 
Natural History of Norway, speaks of 
sea serpents 600 feet long. The great 
sea serpent was said to have been seen 
off the coast of Norway in 1819, 1822, 
1837. Hans Egede affirms that it was 
seen on the coast of Greenland in 1734. 
In 1814, 1817, 1819, 1833, and in 1869, it 
made its appearance near Boston. In 
1841 it was ‘‘ seen”? by the crew of Her 
Majesty’s frigate Dedalus, in the South 
Atlantic Ocean. In 1875 it was seen 


by the crew of the barque Pauline. 
Girth, nine feet. 


Seaboard. That part of a country 
which dorders on the sea ; the coast-line. 
It should be scabord. (French, bord, 
the edge.) 


Seal. The sire is called a bu], its 
females are cows, the offspring are 
called pups ; the breeding-place is called 
a rookery, a group of young seals is 
called a pod. The male seai till it is 
full grown is called a bachelor, A 
colony of seals is called a herd. A 
sealey is a seal-hunter, seal-hunting is 
called sealing, and the seal trade sealery. 


Seamy Side (712). The ‘ wrong” 
or worst side; as, the ‘‘seamy side of 
Australia,” ‘‘the seamy side of life.” 
Thus, in velvet, in Brussels carpets, in 
tapestry, etc., the ‘‘ wrong”’ side shows 
the seams or threads of the pattern ex- 
hibited on the right side. 

“You see the seamy side of human nature in its 
most seamy attire.’—Review of R. Buchanai's play 
Alone in London, November, 1885. 

“My present purpose is to call attention to the 
seamy side of the Australian colonies. There is, 
as we know, such a thing as cotton-backed satin ; 
but the colonists take care to show us only the 
face of the guods."—Nineteenth Century, April, 


1391, p. 524. 

Seasons (716). In art. The four 
seasons have often been sculptured or 
painted by artists : 

Poussin drew his symbolic characters 
from the Old Testament. Thus, Adam 
and Eve in Paradise represent Spring ; 
Ruth in the cornfields represents Sum- 
mer ; Joshua and Caleb bringing grapes 
from the Land of Promise represent 
Autumn; and the Deluge represents 
Winter. 

The Ancient Greeks characterised 
Spring by Mercury, Summer by Apollo, 
Autumn by Bacchus, and Winter by 
Hercules. 

M. Girondet painted for the King of 
Spain four pictures, with allegoric cha- 
racter, from the Herculaneum. 

Seba'ra‘im (4 syl.). Rabbis who 
lived after the Talmud was finished, and 
gave their judgment on traditionary 
difficulties (Al derek sebaroth, ** by way 
of opinion’’), (Buaxtorf-) 


Sebastian (S/.). Patron saint of 
archers, because he was bound to a tree 
and shot at with arrows. As the arrows 
stuck in his body, thick as pins in a 
pin-cushion, he was also made patron 
saint of pin-makers. And as he wasa 
centurion, he is patron saint of soldiers. 

The English St. Sebastian. St. Ed- 
mund, the martyr-king of East Anglia. 


Sebastianistes 


1118 


Seian Horse 


He gave himself up to his enemies under 
the hope of saving his people by this 
sacrifice. The Danes first scourged him 
with rods, and then, binding him to a 
tree, shot arrows at him, and finally cut 
off his head. A legend tells how a wolf 
guarded the head till it was duly in- 
terred. The monastery and cathedral 
of St. Edmundsbury were erected on the 
place of his martyrdom. 


Sebas'tianistes. Persons who be- 
lieve that Dom Sebastian, who fell in 
the battle of Alcazarquebir in 1578, will 
return to earth, when Brazil will be- 
come the chief kingdom of the earth. 

“ΠΑ similar tradition is attached to 
several other names, 


Second. (Sve Two.) 


Second-hand. Not new or original ; 
what has already been the property of 
another; as, ‘‘second-hand books,’’ 
“second-hand clothes,’’ ete. 


Second Sight. The power of seeing 
things invisible to others; the power of 
foreseeing future events by means of 
shadows thrown before them. Many 
Highlanders claim this power, which 
the ancient Gaels called shadow-sight 
(taischitaraugh). 


“ Nor less availed his optic sleight, 
And Scottish gift of second sight.” 
Trumbull, 


Second Wind (7/c),in running. All 

animals soon after the start get out of 
breath, but as the body becomes heated, 
breathing becomes more easy, and en- 
dures till fatigue produces exhaustion ; 
this is called the second wind. 
_ “That mysterious physical readjustment, known 
in animals as ‘second breath, came to the rescue 
of his fainting frame.’—Yhe Barton Experiment, 
chap. x. 

Second of Time (4). The sixtieth 
part of an hour was called by the Romans 
serupilum, and the sixtieth part of a 
minute was scrupiilum secundwn. 


Sec’ondary Colours. (See wider 
CoLouRs.) 


Secret de Polichinelle (Jc). No 
secret at all. A secret known to all 
the world; old news. We have also 
‘““Hawker’s News,’’ ‘‘Piper’s News.”’ 
The secrets of Polichinelle are ‘‘stage 
whispers ”’ told to all the audience. 

“ Entre nous, c’est qu'on appelle 


* Le secret de polichinelle.’ ἧς 
La Mascotte, τὶ. 12. 
Secular Clergy (7116). The parish 
clergy who live in the world, in contra- 
distinction to monks, who live in monas- 
teries, etc., out of the world. (Latin, 
secularis.) 


- See’ular Games. Those held by the 
Romans only once in a century, While 
the kings reigned they were held in the 
Campus Martius, in honour of Pluto 
and Proserpine, and were instituted in 
obedience to the Sibylline verses, with 
the promise that ‘‘the empire should 
remain in safety so long as this ad- 
monition was observed,”’ 
“Daté, que precamur 
Temp/ore sacro 
Quo Sibyllini monuére versus.” 

Horace: Carmen Seculare, A.U.C.,737, ἢ 

Sedan Chairs. So called from sedes 
(Latin, ‘‘a seat”), Their introduction 
into England is by Hume (vol. iv. 505) 
erroneously attributed to the Duke of 
Buckingham, who, it is said, gave great 
offence by employing men as beasts of 
burden. Sir 8. Duncombe used one in 
1634, when Buckingham was a boy, and 
we find it spoken of as far back as 1581. 
It was introduced into France (in 1617) 
by the Marquis de Montbrun, and called 
chaise ἃ porters, 

Ψ It is generally said that these chairs 
were first made at Sedan, on the Meuse; 
but thisis not at all probable, as, without 
doubt, the invention was introduced into 
France from England. 


Sedrat. The lotus-tree which stands 
on the right-hand side of the invisible 
throne of Allah. Its branches extend 
wider than the distance between heaven 
and earth. Its leaves resemble the ears 
of an elephant. Each seed of its fruit 
encloses a houri; and two rivers issue 
from its roots. Numberless birds sing 
among its branches, and numberless 
angels rest beneath its shade. 


See’dy. Weary, worn out, out of 
sorts; run to seed. A hat or coat is 
termed seedy when it has become shabby. 
A man is seedy after a debauch, when 
he looks and feels out of sorts. 


Seel. To close the eyelids of a hawk 
by running a thread through them; to 
hoodwink. (French, cidler, cil, the eye- 
lash.) 


“She that so young could give out such a seem- 
ing, 
To 566] her father’s eyes up, close as oak.” 
Shakespeare : Othello, iii. 3. 


See’murgh. The wonderful bird that 
could speak all the languages of the 
world, and whose knowledge embraced 
past, present, and future events. (/e7- 
sian mythology.) 


Seian Horse (7112). A possession 
which invariably brought ill luck with 
it. Hence the Latin proverb “‘//e homo 
habet equum Seianum.’?  Cneius Seius 
had an Argive horse, of the breed of 


Seidlitz Water 


1119 


Selling the Pass 


Diomed, of a bay colour and surpassing 
beauty, but it was fatal to its possessor. 
Seius was put to death by Mark Antony. 
Its next owner, Cornelius Dolabella, 
who bought it for 100,000 sesterces, was 
killed in Syria during the civil wars. 
Caius Cassius, who next took possession 
of it, perished after the battle of Philippi 
by the very sword which stabbed Cesar, 
Antony had the horse next, and after 
the battle of Actium slew himself. 

Like the gold of Tolosa and Her- 
mione’s necklace, the Seian or Sejan 
horse was a fatal possession. 


Seidlitz Water. Natural mineral 
water from a spring in the village of 
Seidlitz, in Bohemia. (See SELTZER.) 


Seiks (pron. Seeks). A religious sect 
in Hindustan, founded in 1500. They 
profess the purest Deism, and are dis- 
tinguished from the Hindus by worship- 
ping one invisible god. The word means 
lion, and was applied to them on ac- 
count of their heroic resistance to the 
Moslem. Ultimately they subdued La- 
hore, and established a military common- 
wealth in the Punjab, ete. 

~ In 1849 the Punjab was annexed 
to the British empire. 


Selah, in the Psalms. Mattheson, 
the musical critic, says the word is 
equivalent to da capo, and is a direction 
to the choir to repeat the psalm down to 
the part thus indicated. 


Sela’ma or Sele’meh. The headland 
of the Persian Gulf, commonly called 
Cape Musseldom, The Indians throw 
cocoanuts, fruits, and flowers into the 
sea when they pass this cape, to secure 
a propitious voyage. (JLorier.) 

“Breezes from the Indian sea 
Blow round Selama’s sainted’cape.” 
Moore: Fire Worshippers. 

Sele‘ne. The moon-goddess ; some- 
times, but improperly, called Diana, as 
Diana is always called the chaste hunt- 
ress; but Selene had fifty daughters by 
Endymion, and several by Zeus, one of 
whom was called *‘ The Dew” (Δ) 5). 
Diana is represented with bow and 
arrow running after the stag; but 
Selene is represented in a chariot drawn 
by two white horses; she has wings 
on her shoulders and a sceptre in her 
hand, 


Seleu'cidz. The dynasty of Seleu- 
cus. Seleucus succeeded to a part of 
Alexander’s vast empire. The mon- 
archy consisted of Syria, a part of Asia 
Minor, and all the eastern provinces. 


Se’lim. Son of Abdallah and cousin 
of Zuleika (3 syl.). When Giaffir (2 syl.) 
murdered Abdallah, he took Selim and 
brought him up as his own son. The 
young man fell in love with Zuleika, 
who thought he was her brother; but 
when she discovered he was Abdallah’s 
son, she promised to be his bride, and 
eloped with him. As soon as Giafiir 
discovered this he went after the fugi- 
tives, and shot Selim. Zuleika killed 
herself, and the old pacha was left child- 
less. The character of Selim is bold, 
enterprising, and truthful. (Byrov-: 
Bride of Abydos.) 

S¢lim (son of Akbar). The name of 
Jehanguire, before his accession to the 
throne. He married Nourmahal’ (the 
Light of the Harem). (Sve NouRMAHAL). 


Sel'juks. A Perso-Turkish dynasty 
which gave eleven kings and lasted 158 
years (1056-1194). It was founded by 
Togrul Beg, a descendant of Seljuk, 
chief of a small tribe which gamed 
possession of Boka’ra. 


Sell. Asaddle. ‘‘ Vaulting ambition 
. . . o’erleaps its sell’? (Macbeth, i. 7). 
(Latin, se/la; French, sel/e.) Window 
sill is the Anglo-Saxon sy/ (a basement). 

“He left his loftie steed with golden sell.” 
Spenser : Faérie Queene, ii. 2. 

Sell, sold. Made a captive, as a pur- 
chased slave. St. Paul says he was 
‘* sold under sin”’ (Rom. vii. 14). (Anglo- 
Saxon, se//-an, to give.) 

A sell. A‘ do,’’ adeception, a ‘‘ take- 
in.”? Street vendors who take in the 
unwary with catchpennies, chuckle like 
hens when they have laid an egg, ‘‘ Sold 
again, and got the money!”’ 


Selling Race (4), in which horses to 
be sold are run. ‘These horses must have 
the sale price ticketed. The winner is 
generally sold by auction, and the owner 
gets both the selling price and the 
stakes. If at the auction a price is ob- 
tained above the ticketed price it is 
divided between the second-best horse 
and the race-fund. (See Hanpicap, 
SWEEPSTAKES, PLATE, WEIGHT-FOR-AGE 
Race.) 

The owner of any of the herses may claim any 
horse in a selling race at the price ticketed. 

Selling the Pass. This isa phrase, 
very general in all Ireland, applied to 
those who turn queen’s or king’s evi- 
dence, or who impeach their comrades 
for money. The tradition is that a regi- 
ment of soldiers was sent by Crotha, 
“lord of Atha,’’ to hold a pass against 
the invading army of Trathal, ‘‘ King cf 
Cael.’ The pass was betrayed for 


Seltzer Water 


1120 


Seraphim 


money. The Fir-bolgs being subdued, 
Trathal assumed the title of ‘‘ King of 
Treland,”’ 

Selt’zer Water. A corruption of 
Selters Water ; so called from the Lower 
Selters, near Limburg (Nassau). 


Semir’amis of the North. Mar- 
garet of Deumark, Sweden, and Norway. 
(1353-1412.) 

Catherine II. of Russia (1729-1796). 


Sena‘nus (Si.) fled to the island of 
Scattery, and resolved that no female 
form should ever step uponit. Anangel 
led St. Can’ara to the island, but the 
recluse refused to admit her. Tom 
Moore has a poem on this legend, St. 
Senanus and the Lady. (Irish Melodies, 
No.1. (See KevIn.) 


Sen’eca. Zhe Christian  WSen'eca, 
Bishop Hall of Norwich. (1574-1656,) 


Senior Op’time (3 syl.) A Cam- 

bridge University expression meaning 
one of the second-class in the mathe- 
matical tripos. The first class consists 
of Wranglers. 
Ὁ Inthe University of Cambridge every branch 
is divided into three classes,and the three classes 
are called a tripos. In the mathematical tripos, 
those of the first class are called wranglers, those 
of the second class are senior optimes (3 syl.), and 
those of the third class junior optimes. Law, 
classical, and other triposes have no distinctive 
names, but are called Class 1., II., or 111. of the 
respective tripos. 

Sennacherib, whose army was de- 
stroyed by the Angel of Death, is by 
the Orientals called King Moussal, 
(D’ Herbelot, notes to the Koran.) 


Se’nnight. A week; seven nights, 
Fortnight, fourteen nights. These words 
are relics of the ancient Celtic custom of 
beginning the day at sunset, a custom 
observed by the ancient Greeks, Baby- 
lonians, Persians, Syrians, and Jews, 
and by the modern representatives of 
these people. In Gen. i. we always find 
the evening precedes the morning ; as, 
‘‘ The evening and the morning were the 
first day,”’ etc. 


Sen'tences (3 syl.). The four books 
of Sentences, by Pierre Lombard, the 
foundation of scholastic theology of the 
middle period. (See SCHOOLMEN. ) 

Master of the Sentences. Pierre Lom- 
bard, schoolman. (Died 1164.) 


Sen'tinel. Archd. Smith says, ‘‘ It is 
one set to watch the sentina (Lat.) or 
hold of a ship,’”? but the Fr. sevtier, a 
path or ‘‘ beat,’’ is far more probable, 
(French, sentinelle; Italian, sentinella ; 
the French sentier is from the Latin 
semitd.) 


Sepoy. The Indian soldier is so 
called, says Bishop Heber, from sip, a 
bow, their principal weapon in olden 
times. (Sipahi, a soldier.) 


Sept. A clan (Latin, septum, a fold), 
all the cattle, or all the voters, in a given 
enclosure. 


September Massacres. An indis- 
criminate slaughter of Loyalists confined 
at the time in the Abbaye and other 
French prisons. Danton gave order for 
this onslaught after the capture of 
Verdun by the allied Prussian army. It 
lasted the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th of Septem- 
ber, 1792. As many as 8,000 persons 
fell in this massacre, among whom was 
the Princess de Lamballe. 


Septuages ima Sunday. In round 
numbers, seventy days before Easter. 
The third Sunday betore Lent. Really 
ouly sixty-eight days before Easter, 


Sep’tuagint. A Greek version of the 
Old Testament, so called because it was 
made, in round numbers, by seventy 
Jews; more correctly speaking, by 
seventy-two, Dr. Campbell disapproves 
of this derivation, and says it was so 
called because it was sanctioned and 
authorised by the Jewish San’hedrim or 
great council, which consisted of seventy 
members besides the high priest. This 
derivation falls in better with the modern 
notion that the version was made at 
different times by different translators 
between B.c. 270 and 130, (Latin, sep- 
tuaginta, seventy.) 

** The Septuagint contains the Apocrypha. 
According to legend, the Septuagint was made 
at Alexandria by seventy-two Jews in seventy- 
two days. 

Serag'lio. The palace of the Turkish 
sultan, situated in the Golden Horn, and 
enclosed by walls seven miles and a half 
in circuit. The chief entrance is the 
Sublime Gate ; and the chief of the large 
edifices is the Harem, or ‘‘ sacred spot,”’ 
which contains numerous houses, one for 
each of the sultan’s wives, and others 
for his concubines. The black eunuchs 
form the inner guard, and the white 
eunuchs the second guard. The Seraglio 
may be visiicd by strangers ; not so the 
Harem. 


Ser’aphim. An order of angels dis- 
tinguished for fervent zeal and religious 
ardour. The word means ‘to burn.’’ 
(See Isaiah vi. 2.) 

τ ue celestial ardours [serarhs] where he 
stoo 

Wee with his gorgeous wings, up springing 

light, 

Flew through the midst of heaven.” 

Milton: Paradise Lost, v. 249. 


Serapis 


1121 


Serpent 


Sera’pis. The Ptolemaic form of the 
Egyptian Osiris. The word is a cor- 
ruption of osorapis (dead apis, or rather 
‘‘ osirified apis ’’), a deity which had so 
many things in common with Osi'ris 
that it is not at all easy to distinguish 
them. 

Serapis. 
fertility. 

Serat (4). The ordeal bridge over 
which everyone will have to pass at the 
resurrection. It is not wider than the 
edge of a scimitar, and is thrown across 
the gulf of hell, The faithful, says the 


Symbol of the Nile and of 


Koran, will pass over in safety, but | 


sinners will fall headlong into the dreary 
realm beneath. 


Serbo'’nian Bog or Serbo’/nis. A 
mess from which there is no way of ex- 
tricating oneself. The Serbonian bog 
was between Egypt and Palestine. 
Strabo calls it a lake, and says it was 
200 stadia long, and 50 broad; Pliny 
makes it 150 miles in length. Hume 
says that whole armies have been lost 
therein. Typhon lay at the bottom of 
this bog, which was therefore called 
Typhows Breathing Hole. It received 
its name from Sebaket-Bardoil, a king 
of Jerusalem, who died there on his 
return from an expedition into Egypt. 


“ Now, sir, I must say I know of no Serbonian 
bog deeper than a £5 rating would prove to be.”— 
Ji, Disraeli (Chance. of the Exch.), Tumes, March 19, 
1867. 


“ΠΑ gulf profound as that Serbonian bog, 
Betwixt Damiatiand Mount Cassius old, 
Where armies whole have sunk.” 

Milton: Paradise Lost, ii. 592. 

Sereme'‘nes (4 syl.). Brother-in-law 
of King Sardanapa’lus, to whom he en- 
trusts his signet-ring to put down a 
rebellion headed by Arba’ces the Mede 
and Bel’esis, the Chaldean soothsayer. 
He is slain in a battle with the insur- 
gents. (Byron: Sardanapalus.) 


Serena’de (3syl.). Music performed 
in the serene—i.e. in the open air at 
eventide (Latin, seve’iuwm, whence the 
French sévénade and Italian serenata), 

“ Or serenate which the starved lover sings 

To his proud fair.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, iii. 769. 

Sere’ne (2 syl.). A title given to 
‘certain German princes. Those princes 
who used to hold under the empire were 
entitled Serene or Most Serene High- 
NESSES, 

It’s all serene, All right (Spanish, 
sere'no, ‘all right ’’—the sentinel’s coun- 
tersign). Sereno, the night-watch. 

“*Let us clearly understand each other.’ ‘All 


serene, responded Foster.’—Watson: The Web of 
the Spider, chap, viii, 


a 


Serif and Sanserif. The former is 
a letter in typography with the ‘‘ wings”’ 
or finishing-strokes (as T); the latter is 
without the finishing-strokes (as T). 


Serjeants-at-Law. French, fréres- 
serjens, a corruption of fratres-servientes 
of the Templars. 

Sermon Lane (Doctors Commons, 
London). A corruption of Shere-moniers 
Lane (the lane of the money-shearers or 
clippers, whose office it was to cut and 
round the metal to be stamped into 
money). ‘The Mint was in the street 
now called Old Change. (Maitland. 
London, 11. 880.) 


Serpent. An attribute of St. Cecilia, 
St. Euphe’mia, and many other saints, 
either because they trampled on Satan, 
or because they miraculously cleared 
some country of such reptiles. (See 
DaGon.) 

Serpent, in Christian art, figures in 
Paradise as the tempter. 

The brazen serpent gave newness of 
life to those who were bitten by the fiery 
dragons and raised their eyes to this 
symbol, (Numb. xxi. 8.) 

It is generally placed under the feet 
of the Virgin, in allusion to the promise 
made to Eve after the fall. (Gen. i1. 15.) 

Satan is called the great serpent 
because under the form of a serpent 
he tempted Eve. (Rev. xii. 9.) 

* It is rather strange that, in Hindu 
mythology, hell is called Narac (the 
region of serpents). (Sir IV. Jones.) 

Serpent metamorphoses. Cadmos and 
his wife Harmonia were by Zeus con- 
verted into serpents and removed to 
Elysium. Escula’pius, god of Epidau’- 
ros, assumed the form of a serpent when 
he appeared at Rome during a pesti- 
lence. Therefore is it that the goddess 
of Health bears in her hand a serpent. 
“Ὁ wave, Hyge‘a, o’er Britannia’s throne 

Thy serpent-wand, and mark it for thine own.” 

Darwin: Economy of Vegetation, iv. 

Jupiter Ammon appeared to Olym’- 
pia in the form of a serpent, and became 
the father of Alexander the Great. 


‘When glidesa silver serpent, treacherous guest ¥ 
And fair Olympia folds him to her breast.” 
Darwin: Economy of Vegetation, i. 2. 

Jupiter Capitoli’nus, in a similar form, 
became the father of Scipio Africanus. 

The serpent is emblematical— 

(1) Of wisdom. ‘‘ Be ye therefore 
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves ”’ 
(Matt. x. 16). 

(2) Of subtilty. ‘‘ Now the serpent 
was more subtil than any beast of the 
field’”’ (Gen. iii, 1), 


Serpent 


It is said that the ceras’tés hides in 
sand that it may bite the horse’s foot 
and get the rider thrown. In allusion 
to this belief, Jacob says, ‘* Dan shall be 

. an adder in the path, that biteth 
the horse’s heels, so that his rider shall 
fall backward ”’ (Gen. xlix. 17). 

It is said that serpents, when attacked, 
swallow their young, and eject them 
again on reaching a place of safety. 

Thomas Lodge says that people called 
Sauveurs have St. Catherine’s wheel in 
the palate of their mouths, and therefore 
can heal the sting of serpents. 

The Bible also tells us that it stops 
up its ears that it may not be charmed 
by the charmer. (Ps. lviii. 4.) 

The serpent is symbolical— 

(1) Of deity, because, says Plutarch, 
“it feeds upon its own body ; even so 
all things spring from God, and will be 
resolved into deity again.’’ (De Iside et 
Osiride, i, 2, p.5 3 and Philo Byblius.) 

(2) Of eternity, as a corollary of the 
former. It is represented as forming a 
circle and holding its tail in its mouth. 

(8) Of renovation. It is said that the 
serpent, when it is old, has the power of 
growing young again “like the eagle,” 
by casting its slough, which is done by 
squeezing itself between two rocks, 

(4) Of guardian spirits. It was thus 
employed by the ancient Greeks and 
Romans, and not unfrequently the figure 
of a serpent was depicted on their altars. 
' In the temple of Athen’a at Athens, a 
serpent was kept in a cage, and called 
“the Guardian Spirit of the Temple.’’ 
This serpent was supposed to be ani- 
mated by the soul of Erictho’nius. 

To cherish a serpent in your bosom. To 
show kindness to one who proves un- 
grateful. The Greeks say that a hus- 
bandman found a serpent’s egg, which 
he put into his bosom, The egg was 
hatched by the warmth, and the young 
serpent stung its benefactor. 
“ Therefore think him as a serpent’s egg 

Which, hatched, would (as his kind) grow dan- 

gerous.” Shakespeare: Julius Cesar, ii.1. 

Their ears have been serpent-licked. 
They have the gift of foreseeing events, 
the power of seeing into futurity. This 
is a Greek superstition. It is said that 
Cassandra and Hel’enus were gifted 
with the power of prophecy, because 
serpents licked their ears while sleeping 
in the temple of Apollo. 

The seed of the woman shall bruise the 
serpent’s head (Gen. iii. 15), The ser- 
pent bruised the /ecel of man; but 
Christ, the ‘‘seed of the woman,”’ 
bruised the serpent’s ead. 


1122 


Set Off 


Serpent’s food. Fennel is said to be 
the favourite food of serpents, with the 
juice of which it restores its sight when 
dim. 

Serpents. Brazilian wood is a panacea 
against the bite of serpents. The 
Countess of Salisbury, in the reign of 
James I., had a bedstead made of this 
wood, and on it is the legend of ‘‘ Honi 
soit qui mal y pense.” 


Serpentine Verses. Such as end 
with the same word as they begin with. 
The following are examples :— 

“Crescit amor nummi, quantum ipsa pecunia 
crescit.” 

(Greater grows the love of pelf, as pelf itself 
grows greater.) 

“ Ambo florentes wtatibus, Arcades amho.” 

(Both in the spring of life, Arcadians both.) 

Serrapur’da. High screens of rep 
cloth, stiffened with cane, used to en- 
close ἃ considerable space round the 
royal tent of the Persian army. 


Servant ([withful). (See ADAM.) 


Serve. ll serve him out—give him 
a quid pro quo, ‘This is the French des- 
server, to do an ill turn to one. 

To serve a rope. To roll something 
upon it to prevent it from being fretted. 
The ‘‘ service’’ or material employed is 
spun yarn, small lines, sennit, ropes, old 
leather, or canvas. 


Servus Servorum (Latin). The 
slave of slaves, the drudge of a servant. 
The style adopted by the Roman pon- 
tiffs ever since the time of Gregory the 
Great is Servus Servorun Det. 

“ Alexander episcopus, servus servorum Dei, 
Karissimo filio Willielmo salutem.’—Rymer: 
fadera, i. p. 1. 


Ses’ame (3 syl.). Oily grain of the 


| natural order Pedalia’cee, originally 


from India. In Egypt they eat sesame 
cakes, and the Jews frequently add the 
seed to their bread. The cakes made of 
sesame oil, mixed with honey and pre- 
served citron, are considered an Oriental 
luxury; sesame is excellent also for 
puddings, (See OPEN SESAME.) 

“ Among the numerous objects .. . wasa black 
hors2. .. . On one side of its manger there was 
clean barley and sesame, and the other was filled 
τα rose-water.’—Arabidn Nights (Third Calen- 

Se’sha. King of the serpent race, on 
which Vishnu reclines on the primeval 
waters. It has a thousand heads, on one 
of which the world rests. The coiled-up 
sesha is the emblem of eternity. (Hindu 


mythology.) 

Set Off (4). A commercial expres- 
sion. The credits are set off against the 
debits, and the balance struck, 


Set-to 


1128 


Seven Champions 


Set off to advantage. A term used by 
jewellers, who set off precious stones by 
appropriate ‘‘ settings.” 


Set Scene. In theatrical parlance, 
a scene built up by the stage carpenters, 
or a furnished interior, as a drawing- 
room, as distinguished from an ordinary 
or shifting scene. 


Set-to (4). <A boxing match, a 
pugilistic fight, a scolding. In pugilism 
the combatants are by their seconds 
“*set to the scratch ”’ or line marked on 
the ground. 


Set’ebos. A deity of the Patago- 
nians, introduced by Shakespeare into 
his Ze:nvest. 

5 “His art is of such power, 
Tt would control my dam’s god, Setebos, 
And lake a vassal of hun.” Tempest, 1. 2. 

Sethites (2 syl.). A sect of the 
second ceutury, who maintained that 
the Messiah was Seth, son of Adam. 


SettingaHen. Giving her a certain 
number of eggs to hatch. The whole 
number for incubation is called a setting. 


Setting a Saw. Bending the teeth 
alternately to the right or lett in order 
to make it work more easily. 


Setting of a Jewel. The frame of 
gold or silver surrounding a jewel in a 
ring, brooch, etc. 


“This precious stone set in the silver sea.” 
Shakespeare: Richard II,, ii. 1. 


Setting of Plaster or Paint. Its 
hardening. 


Setting of Sun, Moon, and Stars. 
Their sinking below the horizon. 


Setting the Thames on Fire. (See 
THAMES.) 
Settle your Hash (70). ‘To cook 


his goose;’’ or ‘“‘make mince-meat of 
him.” Our slang is full of similar 
phrases. 

“ About earls as goes wad in their castles, 

And females what settles their hash.” 
Sims; Dagonet Ballads (Polly). 

Seven (Greek, hepta; Latin, septem ; 
German, sieben ; Anglo-Saxon, seofan ; 
etc.). Aholynumber. There are seven 
days in creation, seven spirits before the 
throne of God, sevén days.in the week, 
seven graces, seven divisions in the 
Lord’s Prayer, seven ages in the life of 
man, and the just fall ‘seven times a 
day.” There are seven phases of the 
moon, every seventh year was sabbat- 
ical, and seven times seven years was the 
que The three great Jewish feasts 


asted seven days, and between the first 


weeks, Leyvitical purifications lasted 
seven days. We have seven churches 
of Asia, seven candlesticks, seven stars, 
seven trumpets, seven spirits before the 
throne of God, seven horns, the Lamb 
has seven eyes, ten times seven Israelites 
go to Egypt, the exile lasts the same 
number of years, and there were ten 
times seven elders. Pharaoh in his 
dream saw seven kine and seven ears of 
corn, ete. 

It is frequently used indefinitely to 
signify a long time, or a great many ; 
thus in the Interlude of the Four LEle- 
ments, the dance of Apetyte is called 
the best ‘‘ that I have seen this seven 
yere.”’ Shakespeare talks of a man 
being ‘‘a vile thief this seven year.”’ 


Seven Bibles (Zhe) or Sacred Books. 

(1) The Brdble of Christians. (Canon 
completed a.p. 494; Old Testament as 
we have it, B.c. 130.) 

(2) The Eddas of the Scandinavians. 

(3) The Five Kings of the Chinese. 
“King”? here means web-of-cloth on 
which they were originally written. 

(4) The Koran of the Mohammedans. 
(Seventh century, A.D.) 

(5) The 7ri Litikes of the Buddhists. 
(Sixth century 8.6.) 

(6) The Three Vedas of the Hindts. 
(Twelfth century B.c.) 

(7) Zendavestaof the Persians. (Twelfth 
century B.C.) 


Seven Bodies in Alchemy. Sun is 
gold, moon silver, Mars iron, Mercury 
quicksilver, Saturn lead, Jupiter tin, 
and Venus copper. 

“The bodies seven, eek, lo hem heer anoon ; 
Sol gold is,and Luna silver we threpe, 
Mars yren, Mercurie quyksilver we clepe ; 
Saturnus leed, and Jubitur is tyn; 

And Venus coper, by my fader kyn.” 

Chaucer: Prol. of the Chanounes Yemanes Tale. 

Seven Champions of Christendom 
is by Richard Johnson, who lived in the 
reigns of Elizabeth and James I. 

(1) St. George of England was seven 
years imprisoned by the Almi'dor, the 
black King of Morocco. 

(2) St. Denys of France lived seven 
years in the form of a hart. 

(3) St. James of Spain was seven years 
dumb out of love to a fair Jewess. 

(4) St. Anthony of Italy, with the 
other champions, was enchanted into a 
deep sleep in the Black Castle, and was 
released by St. George’s three sons, who 
quenched the seven lamps by water from 
the enchanted fountain. 

(5) St. Andrew of Scotland, who de- 
livered six ladies who had lived seven 


and second of these feasts were seyen | years under the form of white swans, 


Seven Churches 


1124 


Seven Weeks’ War 


(6) St. Patrick of Ireland was immured 
in a cell where he scratched his grave 
with his own nails. 

(7) St. David of Wales slept seven 
years in the enchanted garden of Orman- 
dine, but was redeemed by St. George. 


Seven Churches of Asia, 

(1) Ephesos, founded by St. Paul, 57, 
in a ruinous state in the time of Justinian. 

(2) Smyrna, still an important seaport. 
Polycarp was its first bishop. 

(3) Per’gamos, renowned forits library. 

(4) Thyati‘ra, now called Ak-hissar 
(the White Castle). 

(5) Sardis, now a small village called 
Sart. 

(6) Philadelph’ia, now called Allah 
Shehr (City of God), a miserable town. 

- (7) Laodice’a, now a deserted place 
called Eski-hissar (the O/d Cast). 

’ It is strange that all these churches, 
planted by the apostles themselves, are 
now Mahometan. Read what Gamaliel 
said, Acts v. 38, 39. 


Seven Deadly Sins (7/ic). Pride, 
Wrath, Envy, Lust, Gluttony, Avarice, 
and Sloth, 


Seven Dials (London). A column 
with seven dials formerly stood in St. 
Giles, facing the seven streets which 
radiated therefrom. 

“ Where famed St. Giles’s ancient lim‘ts spread 

An in-ra'led column rears its lofty head, 

Here to seven streets seven dials count the day, 

And from each other catch the circling ray.” 

Gay: Trivia, ii. 

Seven Joys of the Virgin. (ce 

Mary.) 


Seven Sages of Greece. 
(1) Solon of Athens, whose motto was, 
“* Know thyself.”’ 
(2) Chilo of Sparta—‘‘ Consider the 
end.”’ 
(3) Thalés of Mile’tos—‘‘ Who hateth 
suretyship is sure.”’ 
(4) Bias of Prie’n¢—‘‘ Most men are 
bad.” 
(5) Cleobu’'los of Lindos—‘‘ The golden 
mean,’’ or ‘‘ Avoid extremes.”’ 
(6) Pittacos of Mityle’né—‘‘ Seize Time 
by the forelock.”’ 
_ (7) Periander of Corinth—‘‘ Nothing 
is impossible to industry.”’ 
First, Solon, who made the Athenian laws; 
While Chilo, in Sparta, was famed for his saws ; 
~ In Mile’tos did Thales astronomy teach ; 
Bias used in Prie’ne his morals to preach ; 
Cleobulos, of Lindos, was handsome and wise ; 
Mityle’ne ‘gainst thraldom saw Pittacos rise ; 
Periander is said tou haye gained through his 
court 
The title that Myson, the Chenian, ought. 
- a £.C. 


Seven Senses. Svared out of my 
seven senses. According to very ancient 
teaching, the soul of man, or his 
“inward holy body,’’ is compounded 
of the seven properties which are under 
the influence of the seven planets, Fire 
avimates, earth gives the sense of feel- 
ing, water gives speech, air gives taste, 
mist gives sight, flowers give hearing, 
the south wind gives smelling. Hence 
the seven senses are animation, feeling, 
speech, taste, sight, hearing, and smell- 
ing. (See Common SENSE.) (Sce Ec- 
clesiastes xvii. 5.) 

Seven Sisters. Seven culverins so 
called, cast by one Borthwick. 

“ And these were Borthwick’s ‘Sistera Feven,’ 
And culverins which France bad given ; 
IH-omened gift! The guns remain 
The conquerors spoil on Flodden plain.” 

Sir Walter Scott ; Marmion, iv, 

Seven Sleepers. Seven noble youths 
of Ephesos, who fled in the Decian 
persecution to a cave in Mount Celion, 
After 230 years they awoke, but soon 
died, and their bodies were taken to 
Marseilles in a large stone coffin, still 
shown in Victor’s church. ‘Their names 
are Constantine, Dionysius, John, Max- 
im‘ian, Malchus, Martin‘ian, and Serap’- 
ion. This fable took its rise from a 
misapprehension of the words, ‘‘ The 
fell asleep in the Lord ’’—i.e, die 
(Gregory of Tours: De Gloria Martyrun, 
i. 9.) (See Horan, xviii. ; Golden Legend, 
etc.) 


Seven Sorrows of the Virgin. (See 
Mary.) 


Seven Spirits stand before the 
Throne of God: Michael, Gabriel, La- 
mael, Raphael, Zacharie!, Anael, and 
Oriphel. (Gustavini.) 


Seven Spirits of God (Ziv). (1) 
the Spirit of Wisdom, (2) the Spirit of 
Understanding, (3) the Spirit of Counsel, 
(4) the Spirit of Power, (4) the Spirit of 
Knowledge, (6) the Spirit of Righteous- 
ness, and (7) the Spirit of Divine Aw- 
fulness. 


Seven Virtues (Zc). Faith, Hope, 
Charity, Prudence, Justice, Fortitude, 
and Temperance. The first three are 
called ‘‘ the holy virtues.” 
DEADLY SDs.) 


Seven Weeks’ War (7Ziice). From 
June 8th to July 26th, 1866, between 
Prussia and Austria, for German su- 
premacy. Italy was allied to Prussia. 
Hostilities broke out between Austria and 
Italy July 25th, but the Bavarians were 


(See SEVEN 


defeated the following day (July 26th), 


Seven Wise Masters 


1125 


Sforza 


The Treaty of Prague was signed 
August 23rd, 1866, and that of Vienna 
October 3rd. By these treaties, Austria 
was wholly excluded from Germany, 
and Prussia was placed at the head of 
the German States. 


Seven Wise Masters. Lucien, son 
of Dolopithus, received improper ad- 
vances from his stepmother, and, being 
repelled, she accused him to the king of 
offering her violence. By consulting the 
stars the prince found out that his life 
was in danger, but that the crisis would 
be passed without injury if he remained 
silent for seven days. ‘The wise masters 
now take up the matter; each one in 
turn tells the king a tale to illustrate 
the evils of inconsiderate punishments, 
and as the tale ends the king resolves to 
relent; but the queen at night per- 
suades him to carry out hissentence. The 
seven days being passed, the prince also 
tells a tale which embodies the whole 
truth, whereupon the king sentences the 
queen to lose her life. This collection 
of tales, called Sandabar’s Parables, is 
very ancient, and has been translated 
from the Arabic into almost all the 
languages of the civilised world. John 
Rolland, of Dalkeith, turned it into 
Scotch metre. 

Seven Wonders of the World. 

() Of Antiquity. 

The Pyramids first, which in Egypt were laid; 
Then Babylon's Gardens for Am/‘ytis made: 
Third, Mauso’lus's Tomb of affection and guilt ; 
Fourth, the Temple of Dian, in Ephesus built ; 
Fifth, Colossos of Rhodes, cast in brass, to the sun ; 
Sixth, Jupiter's Statue, by Phidias done ; 

The Pharos of Egypt, last wonder of old, 

Or the Palace of Cyrus, cemented with sara 

(ii) Of the Middle Ages. 

(1) The Colise’um of Rome. 

(2) The Catacombs of Alexandria. 

(3) The Great Wall of China. 

(4) Stonehenge. 

(5) The Leaning Tower of Pisa. 

(6) The Porcelain Tower of Nankin. 

(7) The Mosque of St. Sophia at Con- 
stantinople. 


Seven Years’ Lease. Leases run 
by seven years and its multiples, from 
the ancient notion of what was termed 
‘climacteric years,’’ in which life was 
supposed to be in special peril. (Levins 
Lemnius.) (See CLIMACTERIC YEARS. ) 


Seven Years’ War (712). The third 
period of the War of the ‘‘ Austrian 
Succession,’’? between Maria Theresa of 
Austria and Friedrich 11. of Prussia. It 
began 1756, and terminated in 1763. At 
the close, Silesia was handed over to 
Prussia, 


. B. 


Seven Years’ War between Sweden 
and Denmark (1563-1570). Erik XIV. 
of Sweden was poisoned, and his suc- 
cessor put an end to the war. 


Several = separate; that which is 
severed or separate ; each, as ‘‘all and 
several.” 

Azariah was a leper, and “dwelt in a several 
house” (2 Kings xv. 5). 

Severn. (See SABRINA.) 


Seve’rus (S¢.). Patron saint of ful- 
lers, being himself of the same craft. 

The Wall of Severus, A stone ram- 
part, built in 208 by the Emperor 
Seve'rus, between the Tyne and the 
Solway. It is to the north of Hadrian’s 
wall, which was constructed in 120. 


Sévres Ware. Porcelain of fine 
quality, made at the French government 
works at Sevres. Chiefly of a delicate 
kind, for ornament rather than use. 

Sew the Button on. Jot down at 
once what you wish to remember, other- 
wise it may be lost or forgotten. 

Sex. (Sve GENDER WORDS.) 


Sexagesima Sunday. The second 
Sunday before Lent; so called because 
in round numbers it is sixty days before 
Easter. 

Sex'tile (2 syl.). The aspect of two 
planets when distant from each other 
sixty degrees or two signs. This position 
is marked thus *. As there are twelve 
signs, two signs are a si.rth, 

“In sextile, square, and trine, and oppos:te 

Of noxious efficacy.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, x. 659. 

Sex'ton. A corruption of sa/cristan, 
an official who has charge of the sacra, 
or things attached to a specific church, 
such as vestments, cushions, books, boxes, 
tools, vessels, and so on. 


Seyd [ced]. Pacha of the More’a, 
assassinated by Gulnare, his favourite 
concubine. (Byron: The Corsair.) 

Sforza. The founder of the illus- 
trious house which was so conspicuous 


| in the fifteenth and sixteenth cen- 


turies, was the son of a day-labourer. 
His name was Giacomuzzo Attendolo, 
changed to Sforza from the follow- 
ing incident:—Being desirous of going 
to the wars, he consulted his hatchet 
thus: he flung it against a tree, saying, 
“Tf it sticks fast, I will go.”’ It did 
stick fast, and he enlisted. It was 
because he threw it with such amazing 
force that he was called Sforza, the 
Italian for force. 


Shack 


1126 


Shafton 


Sforza (in Jerusalem Delivered) of 
Lombardy. He, with his two brothers, 
Achilies and Palame’des, were in the 
squadron of adventurers in the allied 
Christian army. 

Shack. Ascamp. To shack or shackle 
is to tie a log to a horse, and send it out 
to feed on the stubble after harvest. A 


shack is either a beast so shackled, the | 


right of sending a beast to the stubble, 
or the stubble itself. Applied to men, 
a shack is a jade, a stubble-feeder, one 
bearing the same ratio to a well-to-do 
man as a jade sent to graze on a common 
bears to a well-stalled horse. (Anglo- 
Saxon, sceacul ; Arabic, shakal, to tie the 
fect of a beast.) 


Shaddock. A large kind of orange, 
so called from Captain Shaddock, who 
first transplanted one in the West Indies. 
It is a native of China and Japan. 


Shades. Winevaults. The Brighton 
Old Bank, in 1819, was turned by Mr. 
Savage into a smoking-room and gin- 
shop. There was an entrance to it by 
the Pavilion Shades, and Savage took 
down the word dank, and inserted in- 
stead the word shades. This term was 
not inappropriate, as the room was in 
reality shaded by the opposite house, 
occupied by Mrs. Fitzherbert. 


Shadoff or Shadoof. A contrivance 
in Egypt for watering lands for the 
summer crops, It consists of a long rod 
weighted at one end, so as to raise the 
bucket attached by a rope to the other 
end, . 


Shadow. A ghost. 

the ghost of Banquo— 

“Hence, horrible shadow! unreal mockery, 
hence!” Shakespeare : Mucbeth, iii. 4. 

He would quarrel with his own shadow. 
He is so irritable that he would lose his 
temper on the merest trifle. (See SCHLE- 
MIHL.) 

Gone to the bad for the shadow of an ass. 
Demosthenes says a young Athenian 
once hired an ass to Meg’ara. The heat 
was so great and the road so exposed, 
that he alighted at midday to take shel- 
ter from the sun under the shadow of 
the poor beast. Scarcely was he seated 
when the owner passed by, and laid 
claim to the shadow, saying he let the 
ass to the traveller, but not the ass’s 
shadow. After fighting for a time, they 
agreed to settle the matter in the law 
courts, and the suit lasted so long that 
both were ruined, ‘‘If you must quar- 
rel, let it be for something better than 
the shadow of an ass,”’ 


Macbeth says to 


May your shadow never be less. When 
students have made certain progress in 
the black arts, they are compelled to 
run through a subterranean hall with 
the devil after them. If they run so 
fust that the devil can only catch their 
shadow, or part of it, they become first- 
rate magicians, but lose either all or 
part of their shadow. Therefore, the 
expression referred to above means, May 
you escape wholly and entirely from the 
clutches of the foul fiend. 

A servant earnestly desireth the shadow 
(Job vii. 2)—-the time of leaving off work. 
The people of the East measure time by 
the length of their shadow, and if you 


| ask a man what o’clock it is, he will go 


into the sun, stand erect, and fixing his 


| eye where his shadow terminates, will 


measure its length with his feet ; having 
done so, he will tell you the hour cor- 
rectly. A workman earnestly desires his 
shadow, which indicates the time of 
leaving off work. 


Shadow (70). To follow about like 
a shadow, ‘This is done by some person 
or persons appointed to watch the move- 


| ments and keep aw fait with the doings 


of suspicious characters. 
“He [Jesus] was shadowed by spies, who were 


| stirring up the crowd against Him,”—Lonyman's 


Mugazine, 1891, p. 238. 

Shady. On the shady side of forty— 
the wrong side, meaning more than forty, 
As evening approaches the shadows 
lengthen, and as man adyances towards 
the evening of life he approaches the 
shady side thereof. As the beauty of 
the day is gone when the sun declines, 
the word shady means inferior, bad, ete.; 
as, a shady character, one that will not 
bear the light ; a shady transaction, etc. 


Shaf'alus. So Bottom the weaver 
and Francis Flute the bellows-mender, 
call Ceph’alus, the husband of Procris. 

“ Pyvamus : Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true. 
Thisbe: As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you,” 

Shakespeare: Midsummer Night's Dream, y. 1. 

Sha’fites (2 syl.). One of the four 
sects of the Sunnites or orthodox Mos- 
lems ; so called from Al-Shafei, a descen- 
dant ot Mahomet. (See SHIITES.) 


Shaft. J will make either a shaft or 
bolt of it. Iwill apply it to one use or 
another. The bolt was the crossbow 
arrow, the shaft was the arrow of the 
long-bow. 


Shatton (Sir Piercie), In this char- 
acter Sir Walter Scott has made familiar 
to us the euphuisms of Queen Elizabeth’s 
age. The fashionable cavalier or pedan- 
tic fop, who assumes the high-flown style 


Shah 


1127 


Shakespeare 


rendered fashionable by Lyly, was grand- 
son of old Overstitch the tailor. 
Walter Scott : Monastery.) 


Shah. Have you seen the Shah? A 
query implying a hoax, popular with 
street arabs when the Shah of Persia 
visited England, (1873.) 


Shah-pour, the Great (Sapor II.). 
Surnamed Zu-lectaf (shoulder- breaker), 
because he dislocated the shoulders of all 
the Arabs taken in war. The Romans 
called him Post’humus, because he was 
born after the death of his father Hor- 
muz II. He was crowned in the womb 
by the Magi placing the royal insignia 
on the body of his mother. 


Shahzada. A prince, the son of a 
king. (Anglo-Indian.) 


Shakedown. Come and take a shake- 
down at my house—a bed. The allusion 
is to the time when men slept upon litter 
or clean straw. (See below, SHAKES.) 


Shakers. Certain agamists founded 
in North America by Ann Lee, called 
‘Mother Ann,’? daughter of a poor 
blacksmith born in Toad Lane (Todd 
Street), Manchester. She married a 
smith named Stanley, and had four 
children, who died in infancy, after 
which she joined the sect of Jane Ward- 
law, a tailoress, but was thrown into 
prison as a brawler. While there she 
said that Jesus Christ stood before her, 
and became one with her in form and 
spirit. When she came out and told 
her story six or seven persons joined 
her, and called her ‘‘ the Lamb’s bride.”’ 
Soon after this she went to America and 
settled at Water Vliet, in New York. 
Other settlements were established in 
Hancock and Mount Lebanon. 


“ The Shakers never marry, form no earthly,ties, 


believe in no future resurrection.”—W, Hepworth 
Dixon: New America, vii. 12. 
Shakes. Wo great shakes. Nothing 


extraordinary ; no such mighty bargain. 
The reference is to shingle for the roof 
of shanties, or to stubble left after har- 
vest for the poor. 

“The cabin itself is quite like that of the 
modern settlers, but the shingles, called shakes, 
-.. make the wood roof unique.” — Harper's 
Weekly, July 18th, 1891, p. 534. 

Dil doit in a brace of shakes—instantly, 
as soon as you can shake twice the 
dice-box. 


Shakespeare, usually called ‘‘ Gentle 
Walle? 

His wife was Anne Hathaway, of 
Shottery, about eight years older than 
himself, 


(Sir | 


He had one son, named Hamnet, who 
died in his twelfth year, and two daugh- 
| ters. 
| Ben Jonson said of him—“ And 
| though thou hadst small Latin and less 
Greeks ase 

Milton calls him ‘ Sweetest Shake- 
speare, fancy’s child,”’ and says he will 
go to the well-trod stage to hear him 
‘“warble his native wood-notes wild.’’ 
(L’ Allegro, 133.) 

Akeuside says he is “‘ Alike the master 
of our smiles and tears.’? (Ode i.) 

Dryden says of him—‘“‘ He was a man 
who of all modern and perhaps ancient 
poets, had the largest and most compre- 
hensive soul.” 

Young says—‘‘ He wrote the play the 
Almighty made.’ (Ljpistle to Lord 
Lansdowne.) 

Mallett says—‘‘ Great above rule... . 
Nature was his own.” (Verbal Criti- 
cism.) 

Collins says he ‘‘ joined Tuscan fancy 
to Athenian force.”? (Lpistle to Sir 
Thomas Hanmer.) 

Pope says— 


oe Se ee a (whom you and every play-lLouse 
ill 


i 
Style “the divine,” “the matchless,” what you 
will) 
For gain, not glory, winged his roving flight, 
And grew immortal in his own despite.” ᾿ 
Imitations of Horace, Ep. i. 


The dedication of Shakespeare's Sonnets 
has provoked much controversy. It:is 
as follows :— 


TO THE ONLIE BEGETTER OF 
THESE INSUING SONNETS 
MR. W. H. ALL HAPPINESSE 
AND THAT ETERNITIE 
PROMISED 
BY 
OUR EVER-LIVING POET 
WISHETH ; 
—that is, Mr. William Herbert [after-: 
wards Lord Pembroke] wisheth to [the 
Earl of Southampton] the only begetter 
or instigator of these sonnets, that happi- 
ness and eternal life which [Shakespeare] 


the ever-living poet speaks of. The 
rider is — 
THE WELL-WISHING 
ADVENTURER IN 
SETTING 
FORTH. oT 


That is, Thomas Thorpe is the adven- 
turer who speculates in their publication, 
(See Atheneum, Jan. 25, 1862.) 
Shakespeare. There are six accredited 
signatures of this poet, five of which are 
attached to business documents, and one 
is entered in a book called Florio, a 
| translation of Montaigne, published in 


Shaking Hands 


1603. A passage in act ii. 5. 2 of The 
Tempest is traced directly to this trans- 
lation, proving that the Florio was 
possessed by Shakespeare before he wrote 
that play. 

The Shakespeare of divines, 
Taylor (1613-1667). 

The Shakespeare of eloquence. So 
Barnave happily characterised the Comte 
de Mirabeau (1749-1791). 

The Spanish Shakespeare, 
(1601-1687). 


Shaking Hands. Horace, strolling 
along the Via Sacra, shook hands with 
an acquaintance. <Arreptéque manu, 
“ Quad agis dulcissimé rerum 2” 

/Eneas, in the temple of Dido, sees his 
lost companions enter, and ‘‘ avidi con- 
jungere dextras ardebant’’ (Afn., i. 514.) 

Nestor shook hands with Ulysses on 
his return to the Grecian camp with the 
stolen horses of Rhesus. 

And in the Old Testament, when Jehu 
asked Jehonadab if his “heart was 
right’ with him, he said, ‘‘ If it be, give 
me thine hand,” and Jehonadab gave 
him his hand. 


Shaky. Not steady; not in good 
health; not strictly upright; not well 
prepared for examination ; doubtfully 
solvent. The allusion is to a table or 
chair out of order and shaky. 


Shallow. <A weak-minded country 
justice, intended as a caricature of Sir 
Thomas Lucy, of Charlecote. He is 
described as one who had been a madcap 
in his youth, and still dotes on his wild 
tricks ; he is withal a liar, a blockhead, 
and a rogue. (Shakespeare: Merry 
Wives of Windsor, and 2 Henry IV.) 


Shalott (lady of). A poem by 
Tennyson, the tale of which is similar 
to that of Elaine the “fair maid of 
Astolat’’ (g.v.). Part I. describes the 
island of Shalott, and tells us that the 
lady passed her life so secluded there 
that only the farm-labourers knew her. 
Part II. tells us that the lady passed her 
time in weaving a magic web, and that 
a curse would light on her if she looked 
down the river towards Camelot. Part 
III. describes how Sir Lancelot, in all 
his bravery, rode to Camelot, and the 
lady looked at him as he rode along. 
Part IV. says that the lady entered a 
boat, having first written her name on 
the prow, and floated down the river to 
Camelot, but died on the way. When 
the boat reached Camelot, Sir Lancelot, 
with all the inmates of the palace, came 
to look at it, They read the name on 


Jeremy 


Calderon 


1128 


Shandy 


the prow, and Sir Lancelot exclaimed, 
‘‘She has a lovely face, and may God 
have mercy on the lady of Shalott !”’ 


Shambles means benches (Anglo- 
Saxon, scamel ; Latin, scamnwm, and the 
diminutive scamellum, a little bench). 
The benches or banks on which meat is 
exposed for sale. (See BANK.) 

“ Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that eat, 


asking no question.”—l Cor, x 


Sham'rock, the symbol of Ireland, 
because it was selected by St. Patrick 
to prove to the Irish the doctrine of the 
Trinity. (Irish and Gaelic, seam-rog.) 

Shamrock. According to the elder 
Pliny, no serpent will touch this plant. 


Shan Van Voght. This excellent 
song (composed 1798) may be called the 
Trish Marseillaise. The title of it is 
a corruption of An t-sean bean bochd 
(the poor old woman-—i.e. Ireland). 
(Halliday-Spurling: Irish Minstvelsy, 
Ρ. 13.) The last verse is— 

* Will Treland then he free ? 

Said the Shan Van Voght ? (repeat) 
Yes, Ireland shall he free 
From the centre to the sea, 
Hurrah for liberty ! 

Said the Shan Van Vors!:'.” 

Shande’an Exactness. Sir Walter 
Scott says, “‘ The author proceeds with 
the most unfeeling prolixity to give a 
minute detail of civil and common law, 
of the feudal institutions, of the archi- 
tecture of churches and castles, of 
sculpture and painting, of minstrels, 
players, and parish clerks. . . Tristram 
can hardly be said to be fairly born, 
though his life has already attained the 
size of half a volume.”’ (See below.) 

“With ἡ Shandean exactness... Lady Anne 
begins her memoirs of herself nine months before 
her nativity, for the sake of introducing a beauti- 
ful quotation from the Psalms.”"—Jioy. Borealis, 
p. 269. 

Shandy. Captain Shandy is called 
Uncle Toby. He was wounded at the 
siege of Namur, and had retired from 
the service. He is benevolent and 
generous, simple as a child, brave as a 
lion, and gallant as a courtier. His 
modesty with Widow Wadman and his 
military tastes are admirable. He is 
said to be drawn for Sterne’s father. 
(Tristram Shandy.) 

Mrs. Elizabeth Shandy, mother of 
Tristram. The deaw-ideal of uonentity. 
Sir Walter Scott describes her as a 
‘** ροοῦ lady of the poco-curante school.”’ 
(Sterne: Tristram Shandy.) 

Tristram Shandy. The hero of Sterne’s 
novel so called. 

Walter Shandy, Tristram’s father. He 
is a metaphysical Don Quixote in his 


Shandygaff 11 


9 Shear Steel 


way, full of superstitious and idle 
conceits. He believes in long noses 
and propitious names, but his son’s 
nose is crushed, and his name is Tris- 
tram instead of Trismegistus. (Sterne - 
Tristram Shandy.) 


Shandygaff is a mixture of beer and 
ginger-beer. (See SMILER.) 

Shanks’ Nag. To ride Shanks’ nag 
is to go on foot, the shanks being the 
legs. A similar phrase is ‘“‘ Going by 
the marrow-bone stage”’ or by Walker’s 
*bus. (Anglo-Saxon, scanca, shanks.) 


Shannon. Dipped in the Shannon. 
One who has been dipped in the Shannon 
loses all bashfulness. At least, sie aiwnt. 


Shanty. A log-hut. (Ivish, sea, old; 
tig, house. ) 

Shanty Songs. Songs sung by sailors 
at work, to ensure united action. They 
are in sets, each of which has a different 
cadence adapted to the work in hand. 
Thus, in sheeting topsails, weighing 
anchor, etc., one of the most popular of 
the shanty songs runs thus :— 


“Τὴ bound away, this very day, 
I’m bound for the Rio Grande, 
Ho, you, Rio! 
Then fare you well, my bonny blue bell, 
I'm bound for the Rio Grande.” 


(French, chanter, to sing ; a sing-song.) 

Shark. A swindler, a pilferer; one 
who snaps up things like a shark, which 
eats almost anything, and seems to care 
little whether its food is alive or dead, 
fish, flesh, or human bodies, 


a hee ehiowes doe rob us with our owne good 
wi 
And have Dame Nature's warrant for it still ; 
Sometimes these sharks doe worke each other's 
wrack, 
The ravening belly often robs the backe.” 
Taylor's Workes, ii. 117. 

The shark flies the feather. Thisisa 
sailor’s proverb founded on observation. 
Though a shark is so voracious that it 
will swallow without distinction every- 
thing that drops from a ship into the 
sea, such as cordage, cloth, pitch, wood, 
and even knives, yet it will never touch 
a pilot-fish (¢.v.) or a fowl, either alive 
or dead. It avoids sea-gulls, sea-mews, 
petrels, and every feathered thing. (δέ, 
Pierre: Studies, i.) 

Sharp (Leck). The impersonation 
of intellect without virtue in Thackeray’s 
Vanity Fair. (See SEDLEY.) 

“Becky Sharp, with a haronet for a brother-in- 
law and an ear!’s daughter for a friend, felt the 
hollowness of human grandeur, and thought she 


was happier with the Bohemian artists in Soho,” 
—The Express: 
Look 


Sharp. Sharp’s the word. 
out, keep your eyes open and your wits 
about you, When ἃ shopman suspectsa 


customer, he will ask aloud of a brother- 
shopman if ‘‘Mr. Sharp is come in;’’ 
and if his suspicion is confirmed, will 
receive for answer, ‘‘ No, but he is ex- 
pected back immediately.”’ (/Hotten.) 


Sharp-beak. The Crow’s wife in 
the tale of Reynard the Fox. 


Sharp-set. Hungry. A term in fal- 
conry. (See Hawk.) 

“Tf anie were so sharpe-set as to eat fried flies, 
buttered bees, stued snails, either on Fridaie or 
Sundaie, he could not be therefore indicted of 
haulte treason.”—Stunihurst : Ireland, p. 19 (1580). 

Shave. 170 shave a customer. Hotten 
says, when a master-draper sees anyone 
capable of being imposed upon enter his 
shop, he strokes his chin, to signify to 
his assistant that the customer may be 
shaved. 

I shaved through; he was within a 
shave of a pluck. I just got through [my 
examination] ; he was nearly rejected as 
not up to the mark. The allusion is to 
carpentry. 


Shaveling. A lad; a young man. 
In the year 1348 the clergy died so fast 
of the Black Death that youths were ad- 
mitted to holy orders by being shaven. 
‘* William Bateman, Bishop of Norwich, 
dispensed with sixty shavelings to hold 
rectories and other livings, that divine 
service might not cease in the parishes 
over which they were appointed. (Blom- 
Ποιά. History of Norfolk, vol. iii.) 


Shaving. Bondmen were com- 
manded by the ancient Gauls to shave, 
in token of servitude. 

In the Turkish seraglio the slaves are 
obliged to shave their chins, in token of 
their servitude. 


She Stoops to Conquer. This 
comedy owes its existence to an incident 
which actually occurred to its author. 
When Goldsmith was sixteen years of 
age, a wag residing at Ardagh directed 
him, when passing through that village, 
to Squire Fetherstone’s house as the 
village ino. The mistake was not dis- 
covered for some time, and then no one 
enjoyed it more heartily than Oliver 
himself. 


Shear Steel. Steel which has been 
sheared. When the bars have been 
converted into steel, they are sheared 
into short pieces, and forged again from 
a pile built up with layers crossed, so as 
to produce a web-like texture in the 
metal by the crossing of the fibres. 
Great toughness results from this mode 
of manipulation, and the steel thus 
produced is used for shears and other 


Sheb-seze 


instruments where a hard sharp edge is 
required, 

Sheb-seze. The great fire festival of 
the Persians, when they used to set fire 
to large bunches of dry combustibles, 
fastened round wild beasts and birds, 
which, being then let loose, the air and 
earth appeared one great illumination. 
The terrified creatures naturally fled to 
the woods for shelter, and it is easy to 
conceive the conflagration they produced. 
(Richardson ; Dissertation.) 

She’ba (Queen of). The Assyrians 
say her name was Macqueda, but Arabs 
call her Belkis, 


Shebeen. A small Irish store for the 
sale of whisky and something else, as 
bacon, eggs, general provisions, and 
groceries. 

“ Drinking your health wid Shamus 
O'Shea at Katty’s sheheen.” 
Tennyson: To-morrow, stanza 2. 

Sheep. awn or tup, the sire; ewe, 
the dam; /wnb, the new-born sheep till 
it is weaned, when it is called a hogget ; 
the tup-lamb being a ‘‘ tup-hogget,”’ 
and the ewe-lamb a ‘‘ ewe-hogget ;”’ if 
the tup is castrated it is called a wether- 
hogget. 

After the removal of the first fleece, 
the tup-hogget becomes a shearling, the 
ewe-hogget a grimmer, and the wether- 


hogget a dinmont (hence the name 


‘Dandy Dinmont ’’). 

After the removal of the second fleece, 
the shearling becomes a two-shear tup, 
the grimmer a ewe, and the dinmont a 
wether. 

After the removal of the third fleece, 


the ewe is called a twinter-ewe ; and 


when it ceases to breed, a draft-ewe. 
The Black Sheep (Kara-koin-loo), A 

tribe which established a principality in 

Armenia, that lasted 108 years (1360- 


1468) ; so called from the device of their | 


standard. 

The White Sheep (Ak-koin-loo), A 
tribe which established a principality in 
Armenia, ete., on the ruin of the Black 
Sheep (1468-1508) ; so called from the 
device of their standard. 

To cast a sheep’s eye at one is to look 
askance, like a sheep, at a person to 
whom you feel lovingly inclined. 

“ But he, the beast, was casting sheep's eyes at 
her.’—Colman: Broad Grins. 

Sheet Anchor. 7) αὐ is my sheet anchor 
—my chief stay, my chief dependence. 
The sheet anchor is the largest and 
heaviest of all. The word is a corrup- 
tion of Shote-anchor, the anchor shot or 
thrown out in stress of weather, Many 


1130 


Shells 


ships carry more than one sheet-anchor 
outside the ship’s waist. 

“The surgeon no longer bleeds. Ifgouask bir 
‘why this neglect of What was once considere 


the sheet anchor of practice in certain diseases ?’ 
he will. . ."—Vhe Times. 


Sheik (Arabic,- elder). A title of 
respect equal to the Italian signo're, 
the French siew, Spanish senor, ete. 
There are seven sheiks in the Kast, all 
said to be direct descendants of Ma- 
homet, and they all reside at Mecca. 


Sheki'nah (shachan, to reside), The 
glory of the Divine Presence in the sha 
of a cloud of fire, which rested on the 
mercy-seat between the Cherubim, 

Shekinah or Shechinah is not a biblical word. 
Tt was first mentioned in the Jerusalem Targum. 
The Sheckinabh was not supposed to dwell in the 
Second Temple. Its responses were given either 
by the Urim and Thunmmim of the high priest, by 
prophets, or orally. (See Deut, iii, 24; and Luke 
Xvi. 2.) 

Sheldo’nian Theatre. The “ Senate 
House”? of Oxford; so called from 
Gilbert Sheldon, Archbishop of Canter- 
bury, who built it, (1598-1669.) 


Shelf. Laid on the shelf, or shelved. 
A government officer no longer actively 
employed ; an actor no longer assigned 
a part; a young lady past the ordinax 
age of marriage ; a pawn at the broker's; 
a question started and set aside. All 
mean laid up and put away. 


Shell (4) is a hollow iron ball, with 
a fuze-hole in it to receive a fuze, which 
isa plug of wood containing gunpowder. 
It is constructed to burn slowly, and, on 
firing, the piece ignites, and continues to 
burn during its flight till it falls on the 
object at which it is directed, when it 
bursts, scattering its fragments in all 
directions. 


Shell Jacket (4). An undress mili- 
tary jacket. 


Shell of an Egg. After an egg in 
the shell has been eaten, many persons 
break or crush the empty shell. Sir 
Thomas Brown says this was done ori- 
ginally ‘‘to prevent house-spirits from 
usivg the shell for their mischievous 
pranks.’’? (Book v., chap. xxiii.) 

Shells on churches, tombstones, and 
used by pilgrims : 

(1) If dedicated to James the Greater, 
the scallop-shell is his recognised em- 
blem. (See James.) If not, the allusion 
is to the vocation of the apostles gene- 
rally, who were fishermen, and Christ 
said He would make them ‘‘fishers of 
men.”’ 

(2) On tombstones, the allusion is to 


‘Shemitic 


1131 


Shibboleth 


the earthly body left behind, which is 
the mere s/el/ of the immortal soul. 

(3) Carried by pilgrims, the allusion 
may possibly be to James the Greater, 
the patron saint of pilgrims, but more 
likely it originally arose as a convenient 
drinking-cup, and hence the pilgrims of 
Japan carry scallop shells, 


Shemit'ic. Pertaining to Shem, de- 
scendant of Shem, derived from Shem. 

The Shemitic languages are Chaldee, 
Syriac, Arabic, Hebrew, Samaritan, 
Ethiopic, and old Pheenician. The great 
characteristic of this family of languages 
is that the roots of words consist of three 
consonants. 

Shemitie nations or Shemites (2 syl.). 
(See above.) 

Shepherd. 776 shepherd. Moses who 
fed the flocks of Jethro, his father-in- 
law. 

“Sing, heavenly muse, that on the secret top 


Of Oreb or of Sinai didst inspire 
That shepherd, who first taught the chosen seed 
In the beginning how the Leavens and earth 


Rose out of chaos.” 
Milton: Paradise Lost, bk. i. 8. 


N.B. Oreb, or Horeb and Sinai, are 
two heights of one mountain. 


Shepherd Kings or Hyksos. Some 
2,000 years B.c. a tribe of Arabian shep- 
herds established themselves in Lower 
Eeypt, and were governed by their own 
chiefs. J Ἢ 
511 years;’’ Eratos’thenés says 470 years ; 
Africanus, 284 years; Eusebius, 103 
years. Some say they extended over 
tive dynasties, some over three, some 
limit their sway to one ; some give the 
name of only one monarch, some of 
four, and others of six. Bunsen places 
them B.c. 1639; Lepsius, B.c. 1842; 
others, 1900 or 2000. If there ever were 
such kings, they were driven into Syria 
by the rulers of Upper Egypt. (Hyf, 
ruler ; sos, shepherd.) 


Shepherd Lord (7/c). Henry, the 
tenth Lord Clifford, sent by his mother 
to be brought up by a shepherd, in order 
to save him from the fury of the 
Yorkists. At the accession of Henry 
VII. he was restored to all his rights 
and seigniories. (Died 1523.) 

* The story is told by Wordsworth 
in ΤῈ Song for the Feast of Brougham 

‘astle. 


Shepherd of Banbury (7/ic). The 
ostensible author of a Weather Guide. 
He styles himself John Claridge, Shep- 
herd ; but the real author is said to have 
been Dr. John Campbell. (First pub- 
lished in 1744.) ἃ 


Man’etho says ‘‘they reigned | 


| in 


Shepherd of Salisbury Plain 
(The). Said to be David Saunders, 
noted for his homely wisdom and prac- 
tical piety. Mrs. Hannah More wrote 
the religious tract so entitled, and makes 
the hero a Christian Arcadian. 


Shepherd of the Ocean (Zhe). So 
Sir Walter Raleigh is called by Spenser, 
in his poem entitled Colin Clout’s Come 
Home Again. (1552-1618.) 


Shepherd’s Sundial (Zhe). The 
scarlet pimpernel, which opens at a little 
past seven in the morning, and closes at 
a little past two. When rain is at hand, 
or the weather is unfavourable, it does 
not open at all. 


Shepherded. Watched and followed 
as suspicious of mischief, as a shepherd 
watches a wolf. 

“Russian vessels of war are everywhere being 
carefully ‘shepherded’ by British ships, and it is 
easy to 566 that such a state of extreme tension 
cannot be continued much longer without an 
actual outbreak.’’—Newspaper leader, April 27th, 
1885. 

Sheppard (Jaci). Son of a carpenter 
in Smithfield, noted for his two escapes 
from Newgate in 1724. He was hanged 


at Tyburn the same year. (1701-1724.) 


Shepster Time. The time of sheep- 
shearing. 

Sheriftmuir. There was mair lost at 
the Shirramuir. Don’t grieve for your 
losses, for worse have befallen others 
before now. ‘The battle of Sheriffmuir, 
1715, between the Jacobites and 
Hanoyerians was very bloody ; both 
sides sustained heavy losses, and both 
sides claimed the victory. 

She’va, in the satire of Absalom and 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is de- 


| signed for Sir Roger Lestrange. (Partii.) 


Shewbread. Food for show only, 
and not intended to be eaten except by 
certain privileged persons. The term is 
Jewish, and refers to the twelve loaves 
which the priest ‘‘ showed ”’ or exhibited 
to Jehovah, by placing them week by 
week on the sanctuary table. At the 
end of the week, the priest who had been 
in office was allowed to take them home 
for his own eating ; but no one else was 
allowed to partake of them. 


Shewri-while. A spirit-woman that 
haunts Mynydd Llanhilleth mountain, 
in Monmouthshire, to mislead those who 
attempt to cross it. 


Shiahs. (Se SHIITES.) 


Shib’boleth. The password of a 
secret society ; the secret by which those 
of a party know each other. The. 


Shield 


1132 


Shingebis 


Ephraimites quarrelled with Jephthah, 
and Jephthah gathered together the men 
of Gilead and fought with gates 
There were many fugitives, and when 
they tried to pass the Jordan the guard 
told them to say Shibboleth, which the 
Ephraimites pronounced Sibboleth, and 
by this test it was ascertained whether 
the person wishing to cross the river was 
a friend or foe. (Judges xii, 1-16.) 


“Their foes a deadly shibboleth devise.” 
Dryden: Hind and Panther, pt. iii. 


Shield. 

The Gold and Silver Shield. Two 
knights coming from different directions 
stopped in sight of a trophy shield, one 
side of which was gold and the other 
silver. Like the disputants about the 
colour of the chameleon, the knights 
disputed about the metal of the shield, 
and from words they proceeded to 
blows. Luckily a third knight came 
up at this juncture, to whom the point 
of dispute was referred, and the dis- 
putants were informed that the shield 
was silver on one side and gold on the 
other. This story is from Beaumont’s 
Moralities. It was reprinted in a col- 
lection of Useful and 
sages in Prose, 1826, 

The other side of the shield. The other 
side of the question. The reference is 
to the “Gold and Silver Shield.”’ (See 
above.) 

That depends on which side of the shield 
you look at. That depends on the stand- 
point of the speaker. (Sve above.) 


Shield-of-Arms. Same as Coat of 
Arms ; so called because persons in the 
Middle Ages bore their heraldic devices 
on their shields. 


Shield of Expectation (7/c). The 
naked shield given to a young warrior 
in his virgin campaign. As he achieved 
glory, his deeds were recorded or sym- 
bolised on his shield, 


Shields. The most famous in story 
are the Shield of Achilles described by 
Homer, of Hercvles, described by Hesiod, 
and of Mnéas described by Virgil. 

Other famous bucklers described in 
classic story are the following :—That of 


ntertaining Pas- 


Agamemnon, a gorgon. 

Amiicos (son of Poseidon or Neptune),a crayfish, 
Symbol of prudence. 

Cudmos and his descendants, a dragon, to indi- 
cate their descent from the dragon's teeth. 

Etedcles (4 sy1.), one of the seven heroes against 
Thebes, a man scaling a wall. 

Hector,a lion. 

Idoméneus (4 syl.), a cock. 

Menelavs, a serpent at his heart; alluding to 
the elopement of his wife with Paris, 


Parthenopos, one of the seven heroes, a sphinx 
holding a man in its claws. 

Ulysses, a dolpbin. Whence he is sometimes 
called Delphinosemos, 


‘ Servius says that the Greeks in the 
siege of Troy had, as a rule, Neptune on 
their bucklers, and the 7'rejans Minerva. 

It was a common custom, after a great 
victory, for the victorious general to 
hang his buckler on the walls of some 
temple. 

The clang of shields, When a chief 
doomed a man to death, he struck his 
shield with the bluat end of his spear, 
by way of notice to the royal bard to 
begin the death-song. (Sze A®’aIs.) 


“ Cairbar rises in his arms, 
The clang of shields is heard." Ά 
Ossiun: Temora, i. 


Shi-ites (2 syl.). Those Mahometans 
who do not consider the Sunna, or oral 
law, of any authority, but look upon it 
as εὐ μρόνος ἀν They wear red turbans, 
and are sometimes called ‘* Red Heads.”’ 
The Persians are Shiites. (Arabic, shiah, 
asect.) (See SUNNITES.) 

Shillelagh (pronounce she-/Jay-lah). 
An oaken sapling or cudgel (Irish). 

Shilling. Said to be derived from 
St. Kilian, whose image was stamped on 
the ‘‘ shillings ” of Wurzburg. Of course 
this etymology is of no value. (Anglo- 
Saxon, seylling or scilling, a shilling.) 

According to Skeat, from the verb 
seylan (to divide). The coin was origin- 
ally made with a deeply-indented cross, 
and could easily be divided into halvcs 
or quarters, 


Shilly Shally. A corruption of 
‘¢ Will I, shall I,’’ or ‘‘ Shall I, shall I.” 
“There's no delay, they ne'er stand shall J, 
shall |, 
Hermog’enes with Dal‘lila doth dally.” 
Taylor's Workes, iii. 3 (1630). 
Shim’ei (2 syl.), in Dryden’s satire of 
Absalom and Achitophel, is designed for 
Slingsby Bethel, the lord mayor. 
*Shimei, whose youth did early promise bring, 
Of zeal to God and hatred to lis king ; 
Did wisely from expensive sins refrain, 
And never broke the Sabbath but for gain.” 
Part 1, lines }48—551. 


Shi’‘nar. The land of the Chaldees. 


Shindy. A row, a disturbance. To 
kick up a shindy, to make a row. 
(Gipsy, chinda, a quarrel.) 


Shin’gebis, in North American In- 
dian mythology, is a diver who dared 
the North Wind to single combat. The 
Indian Boreas rated him for staying in 
his dominions after he had routed away 
the flowers, and driven off the sea-gulls 
and herons, Shin’gebis laughed at him, 


Ship 


1133 


Shirt 


and the North Wind went at night and 
tried to blow down his hut and put out 
his fire. As he could not do this, he 
defied the diver to come forth and 
wrestle with him. Shin’gebis obeyed 
the summons, and sent the blusterer 
howling to his home. (Longfellow: 
Hiawatha.) (See KaBIBONOKKA.) 


Ship (the device of Paris). Sauval 
says, ‘* L’ile de la cité est faite comme un 
grand navire enfoncé dans la vase, et 
échoué au fil de Veau vers le milieu de la 
Seine.’ This form of a ship struck the 
heraldic scribes, who, in the latter half 
of the Middle Ages, emblazoned it in the 
shield of the city. (See VENGEUR.) 

When my ship comes home, When my 
fortune is made. The allusion is to the 
argosies returning from foreign parts 
Jaden with rich freights. 


Ship Letters. These are to indicate 
when a ship is fully laden, and this 
depends on its destination. 

I’. W. (Fresh Water line), 1.6. it may 
be laden till this mark touches the water 
when loading in a fresh-water dock or 
river. 

I.S. (Indian Summer line). It was to 
be loaded to this point in the Indian 
seas in summer time. 

S. The summer draught in the Medi- 
terrancan. 

W. The winter draught in the Medi- 
terranean. 

W.N.A. (Winter North Atlantic line), 


Ship-shape. As methodically ar- 
ranged as things in a ship; in good 
order. When a vessel is sent out tem- 
porarily rigged, it is termed ‘ jury- 
rigged”? (i.e. jowr-y, meaning pro tem., 
for the day or time being). Her rigging 
is completed while at sea, and when the 
jury-rigging has been duly changed for 
ship-rigging, the vessel is in ‘‘ship- 
shape,’’ 1.6. due or regular order. 


Ship of the Desert. The camel. 
“ Three thousand camels his rank pastures fed, 

Arabia's wandering ships, for traftic bred.” 

α΄. Sandys: Paraphrase from Job (1610). 

Ships. There are three ships often 
confounded, viz. the Great Harry, the 
Regent, and the Henry Grace de Dieu. 

The GREAT Harry was built in the 
third year of Henry VIT. (1488). It was 
a two-decker with three masts, and was 
accidentally burnt at Woolwich in 1553. 
’ The REGENT was burnt in 1512 in an 
engagement with the French. 

The Henry GrAce ΡῈ DIEU was 
built at Erith in 1515. It had three 
decks and four masts, It was named 


Edward, after the death of Henry VIII. 
in 1547. There is no record of its de- 
struction. 

“Though we are not acquainted with all the 
particular ships that formed the navy of Henry 
VIII., we know that among them were two very 
large ones. viz. the Regeut,and the Henry Grace 
de Dieu. The former being burnt in 1512, in an 
engagement with the French, occasioned Henry 
to build the latter.’—Willet : Naval Architecture, 
ΧΙ, 158. 

Ships of the Line. Men-of-war 
large enough to have a place ina line 
of battle. They must not have less than 
two decks or two complete tiers of guns. 


Shipton. (Sce MorHER.) 


Shire and County. When the Saxon 
kings created an earl, they gave him a 
shire or division of land to govern. At 
the Norman conquest the word count 
superseded the title of earl, and the 
earldom was called a county. Even to 
the present hour we call the wife of an 
earl a countess. (Anglo-Saxon, scire, 
from sciran, to divide.) 

Ile comes from the shires; has a seat in 
the shires, ete —in those English coun- 
ties which terminate in ‘‘ shire: ’’ a belt 
running from Devonshire and Hamp- 
shire in a north-east direction. In a 
general way it means the midland 
counties. 

Anglesey in Wales, and twelve 
counties of England, do not terminate 
in “ὁ shire.”’ 

Shire Horses originally meant horses 
bred in the midland and eastern shires 
of England, but now mean any draught- 
horses of a certain character which can 
show a registered pedigree. The sire 
and dam, with a minute description of 
the horse itself, its age, marks, and so 
on, must be shown in order to prove 
the claim of a ‘‘shire horse.’? Shire 
horses are noted for their great size, 
muscular power, and beauty of form ; 
stallions to serve cart mares. 

Clydesdale horses are Scotch draught- 
horses, not equal to shire horses in size, 
but of great endurance. 

A hackney is not a thoroughbred, but 
nearly so, and makes the best roadster, 
hunter, and carriage-horse. Its action 
is showy, and its pace good, A first- 
class roadster will trot a mile in two and 
a half minutes. American trotters some- 
times exceed this record. The best 
hackneys are produced from thorough 
sires mated with half-bred mares. 


Shirt. (See NEssus.) 
Shirt for ensign. When Sultan Saladi 
died, he commanded that no ceremony 
should be used but this: A priest was 


Shittim Wood 


1134 


Shoe 


to carry his shirt on a lance, and say: 
‘¢Saladin, the conqueror of the East, 
carries nothing with him of all his 
wealth and greatness, save a shirt for 
his shroud and ensign.’”? (Knolles : 
Turkish History.) 

Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin— 
1.6. My property is dear to me, but 
dearer my lite; my belongings sit close 
to my heart, but ‘ Lyo proximus mihi.” 


Shittim Wood. The acacia. 

“The scented acacia of Palestine furnished the 
shittim wood so much esteemed hy the ancient 
Jews." —Lible Flowers, p. 12. 

Shivering Mountain. Mam Tor, 
a hill on the Peak of Derbyshire ; so 
called from the waste of its mass by 
“shivering ’’—that is, breaking away in 
‘shivers’? or small pieces. This shiver- 
ing has been going on for ages, as the 
hill consists of alternate layers of shale 
and gritstone. The former, being soft, 
is easily reduced to powder, and, as it 
crumbles away, small ‘‘shivers’’ of the 
gritstone break away from want of 
support. 


_ Shoddy properly means the flue and 
fluff thrown off from cloth in the process 
of weaving. This flue, being mixed with 
new wool, is woven into a cloth called 
shoddy—i.e. cloth made of the flue 
““shod”’ or thrown off. Shoddy is also 
made of old garments torn up and 
re-spun. The term is used for any 
loose, sleazy cloth, and metaphorically 
for literature of an inferior character 
compiled from other works. (Shed, pro- 
vincial pret. ‘‘shod;’’ shoot, obsolete 
pret. shottcn.) ἢ 

- Shoddy characters. Persons of tar- 
nished reputation, like cloth made of 
shoddy or refuse wool. 


Shoe. (Sve CHOPINE.) 

Shoe.+ It was at one time thought 
unlucky to put on the left shoe before 
the right, or to put either shoe on the 
wrong foot. It is said that Augustus 
Cesar was nearly. assassinated by a 
mutiny one day when he put on his 
left shoe first. Ae 
= “ Auguste, cet empereur qui-gouverna avec tant 
‘de sagesse, et dont le régne’ fut ἘΠ florissant, 
restoit immobile et consterné Jorsqwil lui ar- 
rivoit par mégarde de mettre le souller droit au 
pied gauche, et le souliér gauche au pied droit.”— 
St. Foi, 

A. shoe too large trips one up, A Latin 
proverb, ‘‘ Calceus major subvertit.” An 
empire too large falls to pieces ; a busi- 
ness too large comes to grief; an am- 
bition too large fails altogether. 

Loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the 
place whereon thou standest is holy (Josh. 


v. 15), Loosing the shoe is a mark of 
respect in the East, among Moslems and 
Hindus, to the presenthour. The Mus- 
sulman leaves his slippers at the door of 
the mosque. The Mahometan moonshee 


' comes barefooted into the presence of 


his superiors. The governor of a town, 


| in making a visit of ceremony to a 
| European visitor, leaves his slippers at 


the tent entrance, as a mark of respect. 
There are two reasons for this custom: 
(1) It is a mark of humility, the shoe 
being a sign of dignity, and the shoeless 
foot a mark of servitude. (2) Leather, 
being held to be an unclean thing, would 
contaminate the sacred floor and offend 
the insulted idol. (See SANDAL.) 

Plucking off the shoe among the Jews, 
smoking a pipe together among the In- 
dians, breaking a straw together among 
the 'Teutons, and shaking hands among 
the English, are all ceremonies to con- 
firm a bargain, now done by Δ earnest 
money,”’ 

Put on the right shoe first. One of 
the auditions of Pythagoras was this: 
‘* When stretching forth your feet to 
have your sandals put on, first extend 
your right foot, but when about to step 
into a bath, let your left foot enter 
first.’’ Iamblichus says the hidden 
meaning is that worthy actions should 
be done heartily, but base ones should 
be avoided. (Protreptics, symbol xii.). 

Throwing the wedding-shoe. It has 
long been a custom in England, Scot- 
land, and elsewhere, to throw an old 
shoe, or several shoes, at the bride and 
bridegroom when they quit the bride’s 
home, after the wedding breakfast, or 
when they go to church to get married. 
Some think this represents an assault 
and refers to the ancient notion that the 
bridegroom carried off the bride with 
force and violence. Others look upon it 
as a relic of the ancient law of exchange, 
implying that the parents of the bride 
give up henceforth all right of dominion 
to their daughter. This was a Jewish 
custom. Thus, in Deut. xxv. 5-10 we 
read that the widow refused by the 
surviving brother, asserted her indepen- 
dence by ‘‘loosing his shoe;” and in 
the story of Ruth we are told ‘‘ that it 
was the custom”’ in exchange to deliver 
a 5866 in token of renunciation. When 
Boaz, therefore, became possessed of his 
lot, the kinsman’s kinsman indicated his 
assent by giving Boaz his shoe. When 
the Emperer Wladimir proposed mar- 
riage to the daughter of Reginald, she 
rejected him, saying, ‘‘I will not take 
off my shoe to the son of a slave,’ 


Shoe 


1135 


Shoemakers 


Luther being at a wedding, told the 
bridegroom that he had placed the hus- 
band’s shoe on the head of the bed, 
“afin gwil prit ainsi la domination et le 
gouvernement.” (Michel : Life of Luther.) 

In Anglo-Stx0on marriages the father 
delivered the bride’s shoe to the bride- 
groom, who touched her with it on the 
head to show his authority. 

In Twrkey the bridegroom, after mar- 
riage, is chased by the guests, who either 
administer blows by way of adieux, or 
pelt him with slippers. (Thirty Years 
in the Harem, p. 330.) 

Another mais shors. 
anothor man’s shoes.”’ 
p'ace or lay claim to the honours of 
another. Among the ancient Northmen, 
when a man adopted a son, the person 
adopted put on the shoes of the adopter. 
(Brayley : Graphic Illustrator ; 1834.) 

_ Inthe tale of Reynard the For (four- 
teenth century), Master Reynard, having 
turned the tables on Sir Bruin the Bear, 
asked the queen to let him have the 
shoes of the disgraced minister; so 
Bruin’s shoes were torn off and put upon 
Reynard, the new favourite. 

Another pur of shoes, 
matter. 

“But how a world that notes his [the Prince of 
Wales's] daily doings—the everlasting round of 
weary fashion, the health-returnings, speecties, 
interviewings—can grudge him some relief, with- 
out compunction, them's quite another pair of 
shoes."—Punch, lith June, 19]. 
᾿ς Dead men’s shoes, Waiting or looking 
fordead men’sshoes. Counting on some 
advantage to which you will succeed 
‘when the present possessor is dead. 

~ ‘A man without sandals’? was a 
proverbial expression among the Jews 
tor a prodigal, from the custom of giving 
one’s sandals in confirmation of a bar- 
gain. (See Deut. xxv. 9, Ruth iv. 7.) 

_ Over shoes, over boots. Infor a penny, 
in for a pound. 
“ Where true courage roots, 
The pr over) says, “once over shoes, o'er boots,’ ” 
Taylor’ 8s Werkes, 11. 145 (1690), 

To die in onz’s shoes.’ To die on the 

scaffold. 


“And there’s.Mr. Fuse,and Lieutenant Tregooze, 
‘And there is Sir Carnaby Jenks, of the Blues, 
All come to see ἃ man die in his shoes.” 

Barham. 


To be in a 


“To stand in 
To occupy the 


Another 


To shake in one’s shoes. 
state of nervous terror. 

To step into another man’s shoes. To 
take the office or position previously held 
by another, 

“*That will do, sir, he thundered, ‘ that will do. 


Ttis very ev ident now what would happen if you 
stepped into my shoes.”—Good Words, 1887. 


Waiting for my shoes. Hoping for my 


death. Amougst the ancient Jews the 
transfer of an inheritance was made by 
the new party pulling off the shoe of the 
possessor. (Sze Ruth iv. 7.) 

Whose shoes I an not worthy to bear 
(Matt. ili.11). This means, “1 am not 
worthy to be his humblest slave.’? It 
was the business of a slave recently pur- 
chased to loose and carry his master’s 
sandals. (Jahn: Archeologica Biblica.) 


Shoe-loosed. A man without shoes; 
an unnatural kinsman, a selfish prodigal 
(Hebrew). If a man refused to marry 
his brother's widow, the woman pulled 
off his shoe in the presence of the elders, 
spat in his face, and called him ‘“ shoe- 
loosed."’? (Deut. xxv. 9.) 


Shoe Pinches. Vo one knows where 
the shoe pinches like the wearer. This 
was said by a Roman sage who was 
blamed for divorcing his wife, with 
whom he seemed to live happily. 


“ For, God it wot, he sat ful stilland song, 
When that his scho ful bitterly him wrong.” 
Chaucer: Canterbury Tules, 6,074. 


Shoe a Goose (7 Ὁ). To engage in a 
silly and fruitless task. 


Shoe the Anchor (70). To cover the 
flukes of an anchor with a broad triangu- 
lar piece of plank, in order that the 
anchor may have a stronger hold in soft 
ground. ‘Che French have the same 
phrase: ensoler Vancre. 


Shoe the Cobbler (70). To givea 
quick peculiar movement with the front 
toot in sliding. 

Shoe the Horse (70). (French, 
Ferrer la mule.) Means to cheat one’s 
employer out of a small sum of money. 
The expression is derived from the 
ancient practice of grooms, who charged 
their masters for ‘‘shoeing,’ but 
pocketed the money themselves. 


Shoe the Wild Colt (70). To exact 
a fine called ‘‘ footing’? from a new- 
comer, who is called the ‘‘colt.’’ Colt 
is ἃ common synonym for a greenhorn, 
or a youth not brokenin. Thus Shake- 
peare says—‘‘ Ay, that’s a colt indeed, 
for he doth nothing but talk of his 
horse.”” — (Merehant of Venice, 1. 2.) 


Shoes.  Scarpa’s shoes for curing 
club feet, ete. Devised by Antonio 
Scarpa, an Italian anatomist. 


Shoemakers. The patron saints of 
shoemakers are St. Crispin and his bro- 
ther Crispian, who supported themselves 
by making shoes while they preached 
to the people of Gaul and Britain. In 
compliment to these saints the trade 


Shoot the Moon 


1136 


Shot in the Locker 


of shoemaking is called ‘‘ the gentle 
craft.” 


Shoot the Moon (70). To remove 
house furniture by night to avoid dis- 
traint. 


Shoot the Sun (70). 
nautical observation, 

“Unless a man understood how to handle his 
vessel. it would be very little use his being able 
to‘ shoot the sun,’ as sailors call it.’—Notes and 
Queries, November 19th, 1892, p. 403. 

Shooting-iron (4). A gun. 

“Catch old Stripes [a tiger] coming near my 
bullock, if he thought a * shooting-iron’’ anywhere 
about.’—Cornhill, July, 1883 (My Tiger Watch). 

Shooting Stars, called in ancient 
legends the ‘‘fiery tears of St. Law- 
rence,’ because one of the periodic 
swarms of these meteors is between the 
9th and 14th of August, about the time 
of St. Lawrence’s festival, which is on 
the 10th. 


To take a 


Shooting stars are said by the Arabs | 


to be firebrands hurled by the angels 
against the inquisitive Jinns or Genii, 
who are for ever clambering up on the 
constellations to peep into heaven. 


Shop. 170 talk shop. To talk about 
one’s affairs or business, to illustrate 
by one’s business, as when Ollipod the 
apothecary talks of a uniform with 
rhubarb-coloured facings. 


‘Shop-lifting is secretly purloining 


goods from a shop. Dekker speaks of 
the lifting-law—i.e. the law against 
theft. (Gothic, hlifan, to steal; hliftus, 
a thief ; Latin, /evo, to disburden.) 


Shore (Jae). Sir Thomas More says, 
‘She was well-born, honestly brought 
up, and married somewhat too soon to 
a wealthy yeoman.’ 
Jane Shore is by Nicholas Rowe. 


Shoreditch, according to tradition, 
is so called from Jane Shore, who, it is 
said, died there in a ditch. This tale 
comes from a ballad in Pepys’ col- 
lection ; but the truth is. it receives its 


name from Sir John de Soerdich, lord of | 


the manor in the reign of Edward III, 


“ T could not get one bit of bread 
Whereby my hunger might he fed... . 
So, weary of my life, at length 
I yielded up my vital strength 
Within a ditch .. . which since that day 
Is Shoreditch called, as writers say.” 


Duke of Shoreditch. The most suc- 
cessful of the London archers received 
this playful title. 

“Good king. make not good Lord of Lincoln 


Duke of Shoreditch !"—The Poore Man’s Peticion 
to the Kinge. (1603.) 


The tragedy of | 


Shorne (Sir John) or Master John 
Shorne, well known for his feat of con- 
juring the devil into a boot. He was 
one of the uncanonised saints, and was 
prayed to in cases of ague. It seems 
that he was a devout man, and rector of 
North Marston, in Buckinghamshire, at 
the close of the thirteenth century. He 
blessed a well, which became the resort 
of multitudes and brought in a yearly 
revenue of some £500. 

“To Maister John Shorne, that blessed man 
borne, 

For the ague to him we apply. 

Which juggleth with a bute; I beschrewe his 

herte rote 

That will trust him, and it be I.” 

Funtassie of Tdolatrie. 

Short. Jy name is Short. Vmina 
hurry and cannot wait. 

“Well, but let us hear the wishes (said the old 
man); my name is short, and I cannot stay much 
longer.”"—W. )eats: Fairy Tales of the Irish Pea- 
santry, p. 240. 

Short Stature (Noted Men of). 
Aetius, commander of the Roman army 
in the days of Valentinian; Agesilaus 
(5 syl.) ** Statura fuit humnili, et corpore 
exiguo, et claudius altero pede’ (Nepos) ; 
Alexander the Great, scarcely middle 
height ; Attila, ‘‘the scourge of God,’’ 
broad-shouldered, thick-set, sinewy, and 
short; Byron, Cervantes, Claverhouse, 
Condé the Great, Cowper, Cromwell, 
Sir Francis Drake, Admiral Kepple 
(called ‘‘ Little Kepple ’’), Louis XIV., 
barely 5 feet 4 inches; Marshal Lux- 
embourg, nicknamed “ the Little”? ; 
Mehemet Ali, Angelo; Napoleon 1., le 
petit caporal, was, according to his 
school certificate, δὲ feet: Lord Nelson, 
St. Paul, Pepin le Bref, Philip of Mace- 
don (searcely middle height), Richard 
Savage, Shakespeare; Socratés was 
stumpy; Theodore 11., King of the 
Goths, stout, short of stature, very 
strong (so says Cassiodorus); Timon the 
Tartar, self-described as lame, decrepit, 
and of little weight; Dr. Isaac Watts, 
ete. 


Shot. Hand out your shot or Down 
with your shot—your reckoning or quota, 
your money. (Saxon, sceat; Dutch, 
schot.) (See Scot anp Lor.) 


“ As the fund of our pleasure, let us each pay his 
' shot.” Ben Jonson. 


He shot wide of the mark. He was 
altogether in error. The allusion is to 
shooting at the mark or bull’s-eye in 
archery, but will now apply to our 
modern rifle practice. 


Shot in the Locker. 7 haven’t a shot 
in the locker—a penny in my pocket or 
inmy purse, Ifa sailor says thereis not 


Shot Window 


1137 


Si Quis 


a shot in the locker, he means the ship 
is wholly without ammunition, powder 
and shot have all been expended. 


Shot Window (1)—i.c. shot-out or 
projecting window, and not, as Ritson 
explains the word, a ‘‘ window which 
opens and shuts.’? Similarly, a pro- 
jecting part of a building is nal an 
out-shot. The aperture to give light to 
a dark staircase is called a ‘* shot win- 
dow.”’ 

“Mysie flew tothe shot window. ... ‘St, Mary! 
sweet lnudy, here come two well-mounted gal- 
lants.’"—Sir W. Scott: The Monastery, chaps, xiv. 
and xxviii. 

Shotten Herring. A lean spiritless 
creature, a Jack-o’-Lent, like a herring 
that has shot or ejected its spawn. 
Herrings gutted and dried are so called 
also. 

“ Though they like shotten-herrings are to see, 
Yet such tall souldiers of their teeth they he, 
That two of them, like greedy cormorants, 
Devour more then sixe honest Protestants.” 

Taylor's Workes, iii. 5. 

Shoulder. Showing the cold shoulder. 
Receiving without cordiality some one 
who was once on better terms with you. 
(See Coup.) 

The government shall be upon his 
shoulders (Isaiah ix. 6). The allusion 
is to the key slung on the shoulder 
of Jewish stewards on public occasions, 
and as a key is emblematic of govern- 
ment and power, the metaphor is very 
striking. 

Straight from the shoulder. 
force, A boxing term. 

“He was letting them have it straight from the 
shoulder.”—7". Tyrell: Lady Delmar, chap. v. 

Shovel-board. <A game in which 
three counters were shoved or slid over 
a smooth board; a game very popular 
in the sixteenth and seventeenth cen- 
turies; the table itself, and sometimes 
éven the counters were so called. Slen- 
der speaks of ‘two Edward shovel- 
boards.”? (Shakespeare: Merry Wives 
of Windsor, i. 1.) 

Show. Show himan egg, and instantly 
the whole air is full of feathers. Said of 
a very sanguine man. 


Shrew-mouse. A small insectivor- 
ous mammal, resembling a mouse in 
form. It was supposed to have the 
power of injuring cattle by running 
over them; and to provide a remedy our 
forefathers used to plug the creature 
into a hole made in an ash-tree, any 
branch of which would cure the mischief 
done by the mouse, (Anglo-Saxon, 
screawa, a shrew-mouse; mouse is eX- 
pletive.) 


12 


With full 


Shrieking Sisterhood (7/ir). Wo- 


men who clamour about ὁ women’s 
rights.”’ < 


“ By Jove, 1 suppose my life wouldn't be worth 
ὅν moment's purchase if | made public these senti- 
ments of mine at a meeting of the Shrieking 
Sisterhood.’"—The World, 24th February, 1sv2, 
». 25, 

‘Shrimp. A child, a puny little fellow, 
in the same ratio to a man as a shrimp 
to a lobster. Jy is also used for chil- 
dren. (Anglo-Saxon, serine-an, to shrink; 
Danish, shrvwnpe » Dutch, krimpen.) 

“Tt cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp 

Would strike such terror to his enemies.” 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry VI, 1.3. 
Shropshire. A contraction of 
Shrewsbury-shire, the Saxon Scrobbes- 
burh (shrub-borough), corrupted by the 
Normans into Sloppes-burie, whence our 
Salop. 


Shrovetide Cocks. Shrove Tuesday 
used to be the great ‘‘ Derby Day” of 
cock-fighting in England. 

“Or martyr beat, like Shroyetide cockswith hats.” 
Peter Puendar: Subjects for Painters, 

Shunamite’s House (//c). An 
inn kept for the entertainment of the 
preachers at Paul’s Cross. ‘These preach- 
ers were invited by the bishop, and were 
entertained by the Corporation of Lon- 
don from Thursday before the day of 
preaching, to the following Thursday 
morning. (Maitland : London, ii. 949.) 


Shunt. A railway term. (Anglo- 
Saxon, scwr-ran, to shun.) 


Shut up. Hold your tongue. 
up your mouth. 


Shy. 170 have ashy at anything. To 
fling at it, to try and shoot it. 


Shylock. The grasping Jew, who 
“would kill the thing he _hates,’’ 
(Shakespeare : Merchant of Venice.) 

Shylock (A). A grasping money-~ 
lender. (See above.) 

“Respectable people withdrew from the trade, 
and the money-lending business was entirely ip 
the hands of the Shylocks, ... Those who had tu 
horrow coin were obliged to submit to the ex pen 
sive subterfuges of theShylocks, from whose net 
once caught, there was little chance of escape,’ — 
A, BEymont-Hake: Free Trade in Capital, chap, vil. 

Si, the seventh note in music, was nov 
introduced till the seventeenth century. 
The original scale introduced by Guido 
d’Arezzo consisted of only six notes. 
(See ARETINIAN SYLLABLES.) 


Si Quis. A notice to all whom it 
may concern, given in the parish church 
before ordination, that a resident means 
to offer himself as a candidate for holy 
orders; and Sr Quis — i.e. if anyone 
knows any just cause or impediment 


Shut 


Siamese Twins 


thereto, he is to declare the same to the 
bishop. 


Si/amese Twins. Yoke-fellows, in- 
separables; so called from two youths 
(Eng and Chang), born of Chinese 
parents at Bang Mecklong. Their bodies 
were united by a band of flesh, stretching 
from breast-bone to breast-bone. They 
married two sisters, and had offspring. 
(1825-1872. ) 

Siamese Twins. The Biddenden Maids, 
born 1100, had distinct bodies, but were 
joined by the hips and shoulders. They 
lived to be thirty-four years of age. 


Sib’beridge (3 syl.). Banns of mar- 
riage. (Anglo-Saxon sibbe, alliance ; 
whence the old English word sibrede, 
relationship, kindred.) (See Gossrp.) 

“For every man it schuldé drede 
And Nameliche in his sibrede.” 
Gower : Coifessio Amantis. 


Sibyl. (See AMALTH@A.) 


Sibyls. Plato speaks of only one (the 
Erythrzan) ; Martian Capella says there 
were two, the Lrythrean and the PAry- 
gian; the former being the famous 
‘*Cumeean Sibyl;” Solinus and Jackson, 
in his Chronologic Antiquities, maintains, 
on the authority of /Llian, that there 
were four—the Lrythraan, the Sanian, 
the Egyptian, and the Sardian ; Varro 
tells us there were ten, viz. the Cumean 
(who sold the books to Tarquin), the 
Delphic, Egyptian, Erythran, Helles- 
pontine, Libyan, Persian, Phrygian, 
Samian, and Tiburtine. 

** The name of the Cumean sibyl was 
Amalthea. 

“ How know we but that she may he an eleventh 
Sibyl or a second Cassandra ?”—Rabelais : Gargan- 
tua and Puntagruel, iii. 16. ; 

Sibyls, The medieval monks reckoned 
twelve Sibyls, and gave to each a sepa- 
rate prophecy and distinct emblem :— 

(1) The Lib’yan Sibyl: ‘‘ The day shall 
come when men shall see the King of 
all living things.”? Emblem, a lighted 
taper. 

(2) The Sa’mian Sibyl: “The Rich 
One shall be born of a pure virgin.” 
Emblem, a rose. 

(9) The Cunan Sibyl: ‘Jesus Christ 
shall come from heaven, and live and 
reign in poverty on earth.”” Emblem, a 
crown. 

(4) The Cumean Sibyl: ‘*God shall 
be born of a pure virgin, and hold con- 
verse with sinners.” Emblem, a cradle. 

(5) The Erythrean Sibyl: “Jesus 
Christ, Son of God, the Saviour.’”? Zim- 
blem, a horn. 

(6) The Persian Sibyl: ‘Satan shall 


1138 


_ palm-leaves, 


Sibylline Leaves 


be overcome by a true prophet.’? Em- 
blem, a dragon under the Sibyl’s feet, 
and a lantern, 

(7) The Tiburtine Sibyl: ‘ The High- 
est shall descend from heaven, and a 
virgin be shown in the valleys of the 
deserts.’’ Emblem, a dove. 

(8) The Delphic Sibyl: ‘‘The Prophet 
born of the virgin shall be crowned with 
thorns.”? Emblem, a crown of thorns, 

(9) The Phrygian Sibyl: ‘‘ Our Lord 
shallrise again.”’? Zmblem,a banner and 
a cross. 

(10) The European Sibyl: “ΠΑ virgin 
and her Son shall flee into Egypt.’’ 
Emblem, a sword. 

(11) The <Agrippi'ne Sibyl: ‘Jesus 
Christ shall be outraged and scourged.’’ 
Emblem, a whip. 

(12) The Hellespontic Sibyl: ‘ Jesus 
Christ shall suffer shame upon the cross.”. 
Emblem, a T cross. 

This list of prophecies is of the six- 
teenth century, and is manifestly a 
clumsy forgery or mere monkish legend. 
(See below, SIBYLLINE VERSES.) 

The most famous of the ten sibyls was 
Amalthea, of Cume in AMo’lia, who 
offered her nine books to Tarquin the 
Proud. The offer being rejected, she 
burnt three of them; and after the 
lapse of twelve months, offered the re- 
maining six at the same price. Again 
being refused, she burnt three more, and 
after a similar interval asked the same 
price for the remaining three. The sum 
demanded was now given, and Amalthea 
never appeared again. (Livy.) 

Sibyl. The Cumean sibyl was the 
conductor of Virgil to the infernal 
regions. (neid, vi.) 

Sibyl. A fortune-teller. 


“ How they will fare it needs a sibyl to say.” 
—The Times. 


Sibylline Books. The three sur- 
viving books of the Sibyl Amalthea 
were preserved in a stone chest under- 
ground in the temple of Jupiter Capi- 
tolinus, and committed to the charge of 
custodians chosen in the same manner 
as the high priests. The number of 
custodians was at first two, then ten, 
and ultimately fifteen. The books were 
destroyed by fire when the Capitol was 
burnt (A.D. 670). 

Sibylline Books. A collection of poetical 
utterances in Greek, compiled in the " 
second century (138-167). The collec- 
tion is in eight books, relates to Jesus 
Christ, and is entitled Ora’culz Sibyli'na. 

Sibylline Leaves. The Sibylline 
prophecies were written in Greek, upon 
(Varro.) 


“ 


Sibylline Verses 


Sibylline Verses. When the Sibyl- 
line books were destroyed (see above), all 
the floating verses of the several Sibyls 
were carefully collected and deposited in 
the new temple of Jupiter. Augustus 
had some 2,000 of these verses destroyed 
as spurious, and placed the rest in two 
gilt cases, under the base of the statue 
of Apollo, in the temple on the Palatine 
Hill; but the whole perished when the 
city was burnt in the reign of Nero. 
(See Siby/s [of the medizeval monks].) 


Siccis pedibus [with dry feet]. Meta- 
phorically, without notice. 

“Tt may be worth noticing that both Mrs. 
Shelley and Mr. Rossetti pass over the line siccis 
pedibus.’’—Notes aid Queries (26th May, 1893, p. 417). 

Sice (1 syl.). A sizing, an allowance 
of bread and butter. ‘‘ He’ll print for 
asice.”’ In the University of Cambridge 
the men call the pound loaf, two inches 
of butter, and pot of milk allowed for 
breakfast, their ‘‘sizings;’’ and when 
one student breakfasts with another in 
the same college, the bed-maker carries 
his sizings to the rooms of the enter- 
tainer, (See SIZINGS.) 


Sicilian Dishes (Siciile dapés) were 
choice foods. The best Roman cooks 
were Sicilians. Horace (3 Odes, i. 18) 
tells us that when a sword hangs over 
our head, as in the case of Damoclés, 
not even ‘‘ Sicule dapés dulcem elabora- 
bunt saporen.”” 


Sicilian Vespers. The massacre 
of the French in Sicily, which began at 
the hour of vespers on Easter Monday 
in 1282. 

Sick Man (Zhe). So Nicholas of 
Russia (in 1844) called the Ottoman 
Empire, which had been declining ever 
since 1586, 

“T repeat to you that the sick man is dying ; 
and we must never allow such an event to taxe 
us by surprise.”—Annual Register, 1853. 

N.B. Don John, Governor-General 
of the Netherlands, writing in 1579 to 
Philip II. of Spain, calls the Prince of 
Orange ‘‘the sick man,’’ because he 
was in the way, and he wanted him 
** finished.’’ 


“*Money’ (he says in his letter)‘1s the gruel 
with which we must cure this sick man (for spies 
and assassins are expensive drugs)’.”“—Motley: 
Dutch Republic, bk. v. 2. 


Sick asa Cat. (See SIMILEsS.) 
Sickasa Dog. (See SIMILES.) 


Sick as a Horse, Nausea unrelieved 
by vomiting. A horse is unable to 
vomit, because its diaphragm is not 
a complete partition in the abdomen, 


1139 


Sidney-Sussex College 


perforated only by the gullet, and against 
which the stomach can be compressed 
by the abdominal muscles, as is the case 
inman, Hence the nausea of a horse is 
more lasting and more violent. (See 
Notes and Queries, C. 8. xii., August 15th, 
1885, p. 134.) 


Siddons (J/s.), Sidney Smith says 
it was never without awe that he saw 
this tragedy queen stab the potatoes ; 
and Sir Walter Scott tells us, while she 
was dining at Ashestiel, he heard her 
declaim to the footman, ‘‘ You’ve 
been me water, boy! I asked for 

eer,” 


Side of the Angels. Punch, Dec. 
10, 1864, contains a cartoon of Disraeli, 
dressing for an Oxford bal masqué, as 
an angel, and underneath the cartoon 
are these words— 

“The question is, is manan ape oranangel? I 
am on the side of the angels.”—Disraeli’s Oxford 
Speech, Friday, Nov. 25 (1804). 

Sidney (Algernon), called by Thom- 
son, in his Swnmer, ‘‘The British 
Cassius,’’ because of his republican 
principles. Both disliked kings, not 
from their misrule, but from a dislike 
to monarchy. Cassius was one of the 
conspirators against the life of Cesar, 
and Sidney was one of the judges that 
condemned Charles I. to the block 
(1617-1683). 


Sidney (Sir Philip). The academy 
figure of Prince Arthur, in Spenser’s 
Faérie Queene, and the poet’s type of 
magnanimity. 

Sir Philip Sidney, called by Sir Walter 
Raleigh ‘‘the English Petrarch,’’ was 
the author of Arcadia. Queen Eliza- 
beth called him ‘‘the jewel of her 
dominions ;’’ and Thomson, in his 
Summer, “the plume of war.’’ The 
poet refers to the battle of Zutphen, 
where Sir Philip received his death- 
wound. Being thirsty, a soldier brought 
him some water; but as he was about to 
drink he observed a wounded man eye 
the bottle with longing looks. Sir Philip 
gave the water to the wounded man, 
saying, ‘‘ Poor fellow, thy necessity is 
greater than mine.’’ Spenser laments 
him in the poem called Astrophel (q.v.). 

Sidney’s sister, Dembroke’s mother. 
Mary Herbert (ce Sidney), Countess of 
Pembroke, poetess, ete. (Died 1621.) 
The line is by William Browne (1645). 


Sidney-Sussex College, Cam- 
bridge, founded by Lady Frances Sidney, 
Countess of Sussex, in 1598, 


Siegfried 


Sieg’fried (2 syl.). Hero of the first 
part of the Nibelungen-Lied. He was 
the youngest son of Siegmund and Sieg- 
lind, king and queen of the Nether- 
lands, and was born in Rhinecastle 
called Xanton. He married Kriemhild, 
Princess of Burgundy, and sister of 
Giinther. Giinther craved his assist- 
ance in carrying off Brunhild from Iss- 
land, and Siegfried succeeded by taking 
away her talisman by main force. This 
excited the jealousy of Giinther, who 
induced Hagan, the Dane, to murder 
Sieg’fried. Hagan struck him with a 
sword in the only vulnerable part (be- 
tween the shoulder-blades), while he 
stooped to quench his thirst at a foun- 
tain. (Nibelungen-Lied.) 

Horny Siegfried. So called because 
when he slew the dragon he bathed in 
its blood, and became covered all over 
with a horny hide which was invulner- 
able, except in one spot between the 
shoulders, where a linden-leat stuck. 
(Nibelungen-Lied, st. 100.) 
© Siegfried’s cloak of invisibility, called 
“tarnkappe”’ (tarnen, to conceal; kappe, 
a cloak). It not only made the wearer 
invisible, but also gave him the strength 
of twelve men. (Tarnkappe, 2 syl.) 
“The mighty dwarf successless strove with the 

mightier man ; 

Like to wild mountain lions to the hollow hill 

they ran ; 

He ravished there the tarnkappe from strug- 

gling Albric’s hold, 

And then became the master of the hoarded 


gems and gold.’ 
Lettsom: Fall of the Nibelungers, Lied iii. 


Sieg’lind (2 syl.). Mother of Sieg- 
fried, and Queen of the Netherlanders. 
(Lhe Nibelungen- Lied.) 


_ Sien’na (3 syl.). The paint so called 
is made of terra di Siena, in Italy, 


Sier’'ra (3 syl., Spanish, @ saw). A 
mountain whose top is indented like a 
saw ; a range of mountains whose tops 
form a saw-like appearance; a line of 
craggy rocks ; as Sierra More’na (where 
many of the incidents in Don Quixote 
are laid), Sierra Neva’da (the snowy 
range), Sierra Leo’ne (in West Africa, 
where lions abound), etc. 


Sies'ta (3 syl.) means ‘‘the sixth 
hour”’—i.e, noon. (Latin, serta hora). 
It is applied to the short sleep taken in 
Spain during the mid-day heat. (Span- 
ish, sesta, sixth hour; sestéar, to take a 
mid-day nap.) 

Sieve and Shears. The device of 
discovering a guilty person by sieve and 
shears is to stick a pair of shears in a 


sieve, and give the sieve into the hands | 


1140 


Significavit 


of two virgins, then say: “ΒΥ St. 


Peter and St. Paul, if you [or you] 
have stolen the article, turn shears to 
the thief.’’ Sometimes a Bible and key 
are employed instead, in which case the 
key is placed in a Bible. 


Sif. Wife of Thor, famous for the 
beauty of her hair. Loki having cut it 
off while she was asleep, she obtained 
from the dwarfs a new fell of golden 
hair equal to that which he had taken. 


Sight for ‘‘multitude”’ is not an 
Americanism, but good Old English. 
Thus, in Morte d’ Arthur, the word is 
not unfrequently so employed; and the 
high-born, dame, Juliana Berners, lady 
prioress in the fifteenth century of Sop- 
well nunnery, speaks of a bomynable 
syght of monkes (a large number of 
friars). 

“Where is so huge a syght of mony.”—lals- 
grave: Acolastus (1540). 

Sight (Far). Zarga, the Arabian 
heroine of the tribe Jadis, could see at 
the distance of three days’ journey. 
Being asked by Hassan the secret of her 
long sight, she said it was due to the 
ore of antimony, which she reduced to 
powder, and applied to her eyes as a 
collyrium every night. 


Sign your Name. It is not correct 
to say that the expression ‘‘ signing 
one’s name”’ points to the time when 
persons could not write. No doubt 
persons who could not write made their 
mark in olden times as they do now, but 
we find over and over again in ancient 
documents these words: ‘‘ This [grant] 
is signed with the sign of the cross for 
its greater assurance (or) greater invio- 
lability,’ and after the sign follows 
the name of the donor. (See Jtymer’s 
Federa, vol. i. pt. i.) 

Signs instead of words, A symbolic 
language made by gestures. Members of 
religious orders hound to silence, com- 
municate with each other in this way. 
John, a monk, gives, in his Life of δὲ. 
Odo, a number of signs for bread, tart, 
beans, eggs, fish, cheese, honey, milk, 
cherries, onions, ete. (See Susser Arch- 
eological Collection, vol. iii. p. 190.) 


Significa'vit. A writ of Chancery 
given by the ordinary to keep an ex- 
communicate in prison till he submitted 
to the authority of the Church. The 
writ, which is now obsolete, used to 
begin with ‘‘ Significavit nobis venerabilis 
pater,’ etc. Chaucer says of his Somp- 


nour— 4 , 
“ And 4150 ware him of ἃ." significavit.’” 
Canterbury Tales (Prologue), 664. “- 


Siguna 


1141 


Silly 


Sigun’a. Wife of Loki. She nurses 
him in his cavern, but sometimes, as she 
carries off the poison which the serpents 
gorge, a portion drops on the god, and 
his writhings cause earthquakes. (Scan- 
dinavian mythology.) 


Sigurd. The Norse Siegfried (7.7.). 
He falls in love with Brynhild, but, 
under the influence of a love-potion, 
marries Gudrun, a union which brings 
about a volume of mischief. 

Sigurd the Horny. A German romance 
based on a legend in the Sagas. An 
analysis of this legend is published by 
Weber in his J/lustrations of Northern 
Antiquities. (See StEGFRIED, Horny.), 


Sikes (Bi//), A ruffian housebreaker 
of the lowest grade in Oliver Twist, by 
Charles Dickens. 


Sikh. (Hindu sikh, disciple.) The 
Sikhs were originally a religious body 
like the Mahometans, but in 1764 they 
formally assumed national independence. 
Since 1849 the Sikhs have been ruled by 
the English. 


Silbury, near Marlborough. An arti- 
ficial mound, 130 feet high, and covering 
seven acres of ground. Some say it is 
where ‘‘ King Sel’’ was buried ; others, 
that it is a corruption of Solis-bury 
(mound of the sun) ; others, that it is 
Sel-barrow (great tumulus), in honour 
of some ancient prince of Britain. The 
Rey. A. C. Smith is of opinion that it 
was erected by the Celts about B.c. 1600. 
There is a natural hill in the same 
vicinity, called St. Martin’s Sell or 511], 
in which case sill or sell means seat or 
throne. These etymologies of Silbury 
must rest on the authority of those who 
have suggested them. 


Sil’chester (Berks) is Silicis castrum 
(flint camp), a Saxon-Latin form of the 
Roman Calleva or Galleva. Galleva is 
the Roman form of the British Gwal 
Vaur (great wall), so called from its 
wall, the ruins of which are still striking. 
Leland says, ‘‘ On that wall grow some 
oaks of ten cart-load the piece.’’ Ac- 
cording to tradition King Arthur was 
crowned here ; and Ninnius asserts that 
the city was built by Constantius, father 
of Constantine the Great. 


Silence gives Consent, Latin, ‘‘ Qui 
tacet consenti're vide tur ;”’ ( reek, ‘‘ Auto 
de to sigan homologountose % sow’? (Bu- 
ripidés) ; French, ‘‘ Assez consent qui ne 
dit mot ;”’ Italian, ‘‘ Chi tace confessa.” 
‘But that you shall not say I yield, be:ng silent, 

I would not speak.” 2 
Shakespeare : Cymbeline, ii. 3. 


Silent (The). William I., Prince of 
Orange (1533-1584). - 


Sile/nus. The foster-father of Bac- 
chus, fond of music, and a prophet, but 
indomitably lazy, wanton, and given to 
debauch. He is described as a jovial 
old man, with bald head, pug nose, and 
face like Bardolph’s. 


Silhouette (3 syl.). A black pro- 
file, so called from Etienne de Silhouette, 
Contréleur des Finances, 1757, who made 
great savings in the public expenditure 
of France. Some say the black portraits 
were called Silhouettes in ridicule; others 
assert that Silhouette devised this way of 
taking likenesses to save expense. 


Silk. Received sill:, applied to a bar- 
rister, means that he has obtained licence 
to wear a silk gown in the law courts, 
having obtained the degree or title of 
sergeant. 


Silk Gown. A queen’s counsel. So 
called because his canonical robe is a 
black silk gown. That of an ordinary 
barrister is made of stuff or prunello. 


Silk Purse. You cannot make a silk 
purse of asow’scar. ‘* Youcannot make 
a horn of a pig’s tail.’? A sow’s ear may 
somewhat resemble a purse, and a curled 
pig’s tail may somewhat resemble a 
twisted horn, but a sow’s ear cannot be 
made into a silk purse, nor a pig’s tail 
into a cow’s horn. 

“You cannot make, my lord, I fear, 
A velvet purse of a sow’s ear.” 
Peter Pindar : Lord B. and His Motions. 

Silken Thread. In the kingdom of 
Lilliput, the three great prizes of honour 
are ‘‘fine silk threads six inches long, 
-»e blue, another red, and a third green.”’ 
The emperor holds a stick in his hands, 
and the candidates ‘‘ jump over it or 
creep under it, backwards or forwards, 
as the stick indicates,’’? and he who does 
so with the greatest agility is rewarded 
with the blue ribbon, the second best 
with the red cordon, and the third with 
the green. The thread is girt about 
their loins, and no ribbon of the Legion 
of Honour, or Knight of the Garter, is 
won more worthily or worn more 
proudly, (Gulliver's Travels.) 


Silly is the German se/ig (blessed), 
whence the infant Jesus is termed “ the 
harmless silly babe,’’ and sheep are 
called ‘‘ silly,’’ meaning harmless or in- 
nocent, As the ‘‘holy”’ are easily taken 
in by worldly cunning, the word came 
to signify ‘‘ gullible,” ‘‘foolish.”’ (See 
SIMPLICITY.) 


Silly Season 


1142 


Silver Wedding 


Silly Season (Z/e), for daily news- 
papers, is when Parliament is not in 
session, and all sorts of ‘‘ silly ”’ stuff are 
vamped-up for padding. Also called the 
“ Big Gooseberry Season,’’ because para-~ 
graphs are often inserted on this subject. 


Siluria—that is, Hereford, Mon- 
mouth, Radnor, Brecon, and Glamorgan. 
The ‘‘sparkling wines of the Silurian 
vats ’’ are cider and perry. 

“ From Silurian vats, high-sparkling wines 

Foam in transparent floods.” 
Thomson: Autumn. 

Silu'rian Rocks. A name given by 
Sir R. Murchison to what miners call 
gray-wacke, and Werner termed transi- 
tion rocks. Sir Roderick called them 
Silurian because it was in the region of 
the ancient Silurés that he investigated 
them. 


Silva’‘na. A maga or fata in Tasso’s 
Amadi'gi, where she is made the guar- 
dian spirit of Alido’ro. 

Silvanella. A beautiful maga or 
fata in Bojardo, who raised a tomb over 
Narcissus, and then dissolved into a 
fountain. (Lib. ii. xvii. 56, etc.) 


Silver was, by the ancient alchemists, 
called Diana or the Moon. 


Silver. The Frenchman employs the 
word silver to designate money, the 
wealthy Englishman uses the word gold, 
and the poorer old Roman drass (es). 

Silver and gold articles are marked 
with five marks: the maker’s private 
mark, the standard or assay mark, the 
hall mark, the duty mark, and the date 
mark. The standard mark states the 
proportion of silver, to which figure is 
added a lion passant for England, a harp 
crowned for Ireland, a thistle for Edin- 
burgh, and a lion rampant for Glasgow. 
(For the other marks, see Mark.) 


Silver Cooper (Ze). A kidnapper. 
““'To play the silver cooper,”’ to kidnap. 
A cooper is one who coops wp another. 

“You roband you murder, and you want me to 
... play the silver cooper.”—Sir W. Scott: Guy 
Mannering, chap. Xxxiv. 

Silver Fork School. Those novelists 
who are sticklers for etiquette and the 
graces of society, such as Theodore Hook, 
Lady Blessington, Mrs. Trollope, and 
Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton (Lord 
Lytton). 

Silver-hand. Nuad, the chieftain 
who led back the tribe of the Danaans 
from Scotland to Ireland, whence they 
had migrated. Nuad cf the Silver-hand 
had an artificial hand of silver made by 
Cred, the goldsmith, to supply the loss 


sustained from a wound in the battle of 
Moytura. Miach, son of Dian Kect, set 
it on the wrist. (O'Flaherty: Ogygia, 
part 111. chap. x.) (See Iron Hann.) 


Silver Lining. The prospect of 
better days, the promise of happier 
times. Theallusionis to Milton’s Comus, 
where the lady lost in the wood resolves 
to hope on, and sees a ‘‘ sable cloud turn 
forth its silver lining to the night.” 


Silver Pheasant (4). A beautiful 
young lady of the high aristocracy. 

“One would think you were a silver pheasant, 
you give yourself such airs."—Ouida: Under Two 
Flags. 

Silver Spoon. Born with a silver 
spoon in one’s mouth. Born to luck and 
wealth. The allusion is to silver spoons 
given as prizes and at christenings. The 
lucky man is born with it in his mouth, 
and needs not stop to earn it, 


“ One can seo, young fellow, that you were born 
with a silver spoon in your mouth.”"—Longman’s 


Magazine, 1886. 

Silver Star of Love (71ε). When 
Gama was tempest-tossed through the 
machinations of Bacchus, the ‘ Silver 
Star of Love’’ appeared to him, calmed 
the sea, and restored the elements to 
harmony again. 

“ Thesky and ocean blending, each on fire, 
Seemed as all Nature strugyled to expire ; 
When now the Silver Star of Love appeared, 
Bright in the East her radiant front she reared.” 

Camoéns : Lusiad, bk. vi. 

Silver Streak (Zhe). The British 

Channel. 


“Steam power has much lessened the value of 
the silver streak as a defensive agent.”—News- 
paper puragraph, November, 1885. 

Silver-Tongued. William Bates, 
the Puritan divine. (1625-1699.) 

Anthony Hammond, the poet, called 
Silver-tongue. (1668-1738.) 

Henry Smith, preacher. (1550-1600.) 

Joshua Sylvester, translator of Du 
Bartas. (1563-1618.) 


Silver Trumpet (4). A smooth- 
tongued orator, A rough, unpolished 
speaker is called a ram’s horn. 


Silver Weapon. JVith silver wea- 
pons you may conquer the world, is what 
the Delphic oracle said to Philip of 
Macedon, when he went to consult it. 
Philip, acting on this advice, sat down 
before a fortress which his staff pro- 
nounced to be impregnable. ‘‘ You 
shall see,’ said the king, ‘‘how an ass 
laden with gold will find an entrance.”’ 


Silver Wedding. The twenty-fifth 
anniversary, when, in Germany, the 
woman has a silver wreath presented her, 


Silver of Guthrum 


On the fiftieth anniversary, or GOLDEN 
WEDDING, the wreath is of gold. 


Silver of Guthrum, or Guthram’s 
Lane. Fine silver; so called because in 
the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries 
the principal gold- and silver-smiths 
resided there. 


Silverside of Beet (Zie). The 
upper side of a round, which not only 
shows the shining tissue uppermost, but, 
when carved cold has a silvery appear- 
ance. Generally boiled. ; 


Sim‘eon (St¢.) is usually depicted as 
bearing in his arms the infant Jesus, or 
receiving Him in the Temple. 


Similes in common use :— 


BALD asa coot. 

BITTER as gall, as soot. 

BLACK as ink, as a coal,as 2 crow. 

BLIND asa hat, a beetle, a mole. 

BLUNT as a hedge-hook. 

BRAVE as Alexander, 

BRIGHT as silver. 

BRITTLE as glass. 

BROWN as a berry. 

Busy asa bee. 

CHATTER like a jay. 

CLEAR as crystal. 

COLD as ice, a8 a frog, as charity. 

CooL as a cucumber. 

Cross as the tongs, as two sticks. 

DARK as pitch [pitch-dark]. 

DEAD as a door-nail. 

DEAF 48 a post. 

Dry asa bone. 

Fain asa lily. 

FALSE as hell. ’ 

FAT as a pig, aS a porpoise. 

FLAT as a flounder,as a pancake. 

FLEET as the wind, as a racehorse, 

FREE as air. 

Gay asa lark, 

Goop as gold. 

GREEN a8 grass. : 

HARD as iron, as a flint. 

HARMLESS a8 a dove. 

HEAVY as lead. 

HOARSE as a hog, as araven. 

HELPLESS a8 a bahe. 

HOLuLowW as a drum. 

Hor as fire, as an oven, as ἃ coal, 

HwuNGRY as ἃ hunter. 

LIGHT as a feather, as day. 

LIMP as a glove. 

Loup as thunder. ἢ 

MERRY a8 ἃ grig,as a cricket. 

MILD as Moses, as milk. _ 

NEAT as Wax, as a new pin. 

OBSTINATE as a pig (pig-headed.) 

OLD as the hills, as Methuselah, 

PALE a8 a ghost. 

PATIENT as Job. 

PLAIN as a pikestaff. 

PLAYFUL as a kitten. 

PLUMP asa partridge. 

Poor asa rat, asa church mouse, as Joh. 

ProvupD as Lucifer. 

RED us bluod, as a fox, a rose, a brick. 

ROUGH as a nutmeg-grater. 

ROUND as an orange, a hall. 

RUDE as a hear. 

SAFE as the bank [of England], or the stocks. 

SAVAGE as a bear, as a tiger,as a boar with a 
sore head. 

SICK as a cat, adog,a horse, a toad, 

SHARP as a needle, 

SLEEP like a top. 

SLow as a snail, asa tortoise. 

Siy asa fox, as old boots. 

SOFT as silk,as velvet, a8 80ap. 

SouND asa roach, asa hell. 

SouR as vinegar, as verjuice, 


1143 


Simon Pure 


STARE like a stuck pig. 

STEADY as Old Time. 

STIFF as a poker. 

STRAIGHT as an arrow. 

STRONG as iron, asa horse, as brandy. 

SURE as a gun, as fate, as death and taxes. 

SURLY a8 a bear. 

SWEET as sugar. 3 

SWIFT as lightning, as the wind, as an arrow. 

THICK as hops. " 

THIN as a lath, as ἃ whipping-post, 

TIGHT as a drum. 

TOUGH as leather. 

TRUE as the Gospel. 

VAIN as a peacock. 

WARM asa toast. 

WEAK as water, 

WET asa fish. 

WHITE as driven snow, as milk, as aswan,as@ 
sheet, as chalk. 

WISE as a Serpent, as Solomon. 

YELLOW as ἃ guinea, as gold, as saffron. 

Similia Similibus Curantur. Like 
cures like. (See under Har: Take a 


hair of the dog that bit you.) 


Simmes’ Hole. The cavity which 
Captain John C. Simmes maintained 
existed at the North and South Poles. 


Simnel Cakes. Rich cakes eaten in 
Lancashire in Mid-Lent. Simnel is the 
German semmel, a manchet or roll; 
Danish and Norwegian sim/e ; Swedish, 
simla, In Somersetshire a teacake is 
called a simlin. A simnel cake is a cake 
manchet, or rich semmel. The eating 
of these cakes in Mid-Lent is in com- 
memoration of the banquet given by 
Joseph to his brethren, which forms the 
first lesson of Mid-Lent Sunday, and the 
feeding of five thousand, which forms 
the gospel of the day. (See M1p-LENT.) 


Simon (S/.) is represented with a saw 
in his hand, in allusion to the instrument 
of his martyrdom. He sometimes bears 
fish in the other hand, in allusion to his 
occupation as a fishmonger. 


Simon Magus. Isidore tells us that 
Simon Magus died in the reign of Nero, 
and adds that he (Simon) had proposed 
a dispute with Peter and Paul, and had 
promised to fly up to heaven. He suc- 
ceeded in rising high into the air, but at 
the prayers of the two apostles he was 
cast down to earth by the evil spirits who 
had enabled him to rise into the air. 

Milman, in his History of Christianity, 
vol. ii. p. 51, tells another story. He 
says that Simon offered to be buried 
alive, and declared that he would re- 
appear on the third day. He was actu- 
ally buried in a deep trench, ‘‘ but to this 
day,’”? says Hippolytus, ‘‘his disciples 
have failed to witness his resurrection.”’ 

Simon Pure. The real man. In 
Mrs. Centlivre’s Bold Stroke for a Wife, 
a Colonel Feignwell passes himself off for 
Simon Pure, and wins the heart of Miss 


Simony 


Lovely. No sooner does he get the 
assent of her guardian, than the veritable 
Quaker shows himself,.and proves, be- 
yond a doubt, he is the real Simon Pure. 


Simony. Buying and selling church 
livings; any unlawful traffic in_ holy 
things. So called from Simon Magus, 
who wanted to purchase the * gift of 
the Holy Ghost,’’ that he might have 
the power of working miracles. (Acts 
Vili. 9-23.) , 

Simony. The friar in the tale of 
Reynard the Fox ; so called from Simon 
Magus. 


Simple (716). Charles III. of France. 
(879, 893-929.) 


Sunples cut, (See BATTERSEA.) 


Simple Simon. A simpleton. The 
character is introduced in the well- 
known nursery tale, the author of which 
is unknown. 


Simplicity is sine plica, without a 
fold; as duplicity is duplex plica, a 
double fold. Conduct ‘‘ without a fold”’ 
is straightforward, but thought without 
a fold is mere childishness. It is ‘* tor- 
tuity of thought ’’ that constitutes philo- 
sophic wisdom, and ‘‘simplicity of 
thought’? that prepares the mind for 
faith. 


“The flat simplicity of that reply was admir- 
able.’—) anbruyh and Cibber : The Provoked Hus- 
band, i. 


Simplon Road. Commenced in 
1800 by Napoleon, and finished in 1806. 
It leads over a shoulder of what is called 
the Pass of the Simplon (Switzerland). 


Sin, according to Milton, is twin- 
keeper with Death of the gates of Hell. 
She sprang full-grown from the head of 


Satan. 
«|. Woman to the waist,and fair, 

But ending foul in many a scaly fold 

Voluminous and vast, a ser} ent armed 

With mortal sting.” Paradise Lost, ii, 650-653. 


Original sin. (See ADAM.) 


Sin-eaters. Persons hired at fune- 
rals in ancient times, to take upon them- 
selves the sins of the deceased, that the 
soul might be delivered from purgatory, 


“Notice was given to an old sire before the door 
of the house, when some of the family came out 
and furnished him with a cricket [low stool), on 
which he sat down facing the door ; then they 
gaye him a groat which he put in his pocket, a 
crust of bread which he ate, and a bowl of ale 
which he drank off at a draught. After this he 
got up from the cricket and pronounced the ease 
and rest of the soul de,arted, for which he would 
pawn his own soul.’—Bagford’s letter on Leland’s 
Collectunea, 1. 76. 


Since’re (2 syl.) properly means 
without wax (sie cera). The allusion is 
to the Roman practice of concealing 


1144 


Sing Old Rose 


flaws in pottery with wax, or to honey 
from which all the wax has heen ex- 
tracted. (See Trench: On the Study of 
Words, lect. vii. p. 322.) 

Sin'dhu’. 
river Indus, 


The ancient name of the 
(Sanskrit, syand, to flow.) 


Sin’don. A thin manufacture of the 
Middle Ages used for dresses and hang- 
ings; also a little round piece of linen 
or lint for dressing the wound left by 
trepanning. (Du Cange gives its etymo- 
logy Cyssus tenwis ; but the Greek sindon 
means ‘‘ fine Indian cloth.” India is 
Sind, and China Sina.) 


Sine Die (Latin). No time being 
fixed ; indefinitely in regard to time. 
When a proposal is deferred sine die, 
it is deferred without fixing a day for its 
reconsideration, Which is virtually ‘‘ for 
ever.” 


Sine qua Non. An indispensable 
condition. Latin, Sine qua non potest 
es'se or fieri (that without which [the 
thing] cannot be, 0” be done). 


Sinecure [si’-ve-hure]. An enjoy- 
ment of the money attached to a bene- 
fice without having the trouble of the 
‘“‘cure’’; also applied to any office to 
which a salary is attached without any 
duties to perform. (Latin, sine cura, 
without cure, or care.) 


Sinews of War. Money, which 
buys the sinews, and makes them act 
vigorously. Men will not fight without 
wages, and the materials of war must be 
paid for. 


Sing a Song o’ Sixpence. 
Macaronic VERSE.) 


Sing my Music, and not Yours, 
said Guglielmi to those who introduced 
their own ornaments into his operas, so 
eminently distinguished for their sim- 
plicity and purity. (1727-1804.) 


Sing Old Rose. Sing Old Rose and 
burn the bellows. ‘‘ Old Rose”? was the 
title of a song now unknown; thus, 
Izaak Walton (1590-1683) says, ‘‘ Let’s 
sing Old Rose.’ Burn the bellows is 
said to be a schoolboy’s perversion 
of burn libellos. At breaking-up time 
the boys might say, *‘Let’s sing Old 
Rose [ἃ popular song}, and burn. our 
schoolbooks ᾽ (dibellos). This does not 
accord with the words of the well- 
known catch, which evidently means 
ἐς throw aside all implements of work,”’ 

“ Now were met like jovial fellows, 


Let us do as wise men tell us, 
Sing Old Rose and bury the bellows,” 


(See 


Sing Out 


a 


Sing Out. To cry or squall from 
chastisement. 

To sing small. 'To cease boasting and 
assume a lower tone. 


Sing-su-hay. A lake of Thibet, 

famous for its gold sands, 
“ Bright are the waters of Sing-su-hay 
And the golden floods that thitherward stray.” 
Thomas Moore: Paradise and the Peri. 

Singapores (3 syl.), in Stock-Ex- 
change phraseology, means, ‘‘ British 
Indian Extension Telegraph Stock.’’ (See 
Stock-EXcHANGE SLANG.) 


Singing Apple was a ruby apple on 
a stem of amber. It had the power of 
persuading anyone to anything merely 
by its odour, and enabled the possessor 
to write verses, make people laugh or 
ery, and itself sang so as to ravish the 
ear. The apple was in the desert of 
Libya, and was guarded by a dragon 
with three heads and twelve feet. Prince 
Chery put on an armour of glass, and 
the dragon, when it saw its thousand 
reflections in the armour and thought a 
thousand dragons were about to attack 
it, became so alarmed that it ran into its 
cave, and the prince closed up the mouth 
of the cave. (Comntess d’? Aunoy ; Cherry 
and Fairstar.) (See SINGING-TREE.) 


Singing-Eread, consecrated by the 
priest singing. (French, pain ἃ chanter.) 
The reformers directed that the sacra- 
mental bread should be similar in fine- 
ness and fashion to the round bread- 
and-water singing-cakes used in private 
Masses. 


Singing Chambermaiés, in theatri- 
cal parlance, mean those smart young 
light comedy actresses who perform 
chambermaids and are good singers. 


Singing Tree. A tree whose leaves 
were so musical that every leaf sang in 
concert. (Arabian Nights: Story of the 
Sisters who Envied their Younger Sister.) 
(See Stncrna APPLE.) 


Singing in Tribulaticn. Confess- 
ing when put to the torture. Such a 
person is termed in gaol slang a ‘‘ can- 
ary bird.” 

““This man, sir,is condemned to the galleys for 
being a canary-hird.’ ‘A canary-bird Ε΄ exclaimed 
the knight. * Yes, sir, added the arch-thief; ‘I 
mean that he is very famous for his singing.’ 
‘What!’ said Don Quixote: ‘are people to be 
sent to the galleys for singing ?’ * Marry, that 
they are, answered the slave; ‘for there is 
nothing more dangerous than singing in tribu- 
lation.” ’—Cervantes : Don Quixote, ili. 8. 


Single-Speech Hamilton. The 
Right Hon. W. G. Hamilton, Chancellor 
of the Exchequer in Ireland, spoke one 


1145 


| 


‘Siren 


speech, but that was a masterly torrent 
of eloquence which astounded everyone, 
(November 13th, 1759.) 
“No one likes a reputation analogous to that of 
‘single-speech Hamilton.’ ’—The Times. 
“ Or is it he, the wordy youth, 
So early trained for statesman’s part, 
Who talks of honour, faith, and truth, 
As themes that he has got by heart, 
Whose ethics Chesterfield can teach, 
Whose logic is from Single-speech ?” 
Sir Walter Scott: Bridal of Triermain, ii. 4. 
Sinister (Latin, on the left hand). 
According to augury, birds, ete., appear- 
ing on the left-hand side forbode ill- 
luck ; but, on the right-hand side, good 
luck. Thus, corva sinistra (a crow on 
the left-hand) is a sign of ill-luck which 
belongs to English superstitions as much 
as to the ancient Roman or Etruscan. 
(Virgil: Eclogues, i. 18.) 
“That raven on yon left-hand oak 
(Curse on his ill-betiding croak) 2 
Bodes me no good.” Gay: Kable xxxvii. 


Sinister. (See Ban SINISTER.) 


Sinning One’s Mercies. Being un- 
grateful for the gifts of Providence. 
“T know your good father would term this 
‘sinning ny mercies.’ "—Sir W. Scott : Redyauntlet, 
Sinon. A Greek who induced the 
Trojans to receive the wooden horse. 
(Virgil: -dAtneid, ii. 102, ete.) Anyone 
deceiving to betray is called ‘a Sinon.”’ 
“ And now securely trusting to destroy, 
As erst false Sinon snared the sons of Troy,” 
Camoéns : Lusiad, dk. i. 
Sintram. The Greek hero of the 
German romance, Sintram and his Com- 
panions, by Baron Lamotte Fouqué. 
Sintram’s famous sword was called 
‘¢Welsung.’’ The same name was given 
to Dietlieb’s sword, (See Sworp.) 


Sir. Latin, senev ; Spanish, senor; 
Italian, signor; French, siew; Norman, 
sive; English, sir. According to some, 
Greek ἀναξ is connected with Sir; on 
the analogy of ἐμ-μι (εἰμι) = Latin sewn ; 
ἀμπερες = Latin semper; ὑπὸς = Latin 
sapa. 

Sir (a clerical address). Clergymen 
had at one time Si prefixed to their 
name. This is not the Sir of knight- 
hood, but merely a translation of the 
university word dominus given to gradu- 
ates, as ‘* Dominus Hugh Evans,” ete. 


Sir Cracle. (See ORACLE.) 


Sir Reger de Coverley. An ima- 
ginary character by Addison; type of a 
benevolent country gentleman of the 
eighteenth century. Probably the model 
was William Boevey, lord of the manor 
of Flaxley. 

Siren. 
blandishments, 


A woman of dangerous 
The allusion is to the 


Sirius 


fabulous sirens said by Greek and Latin 
poets to entice seamen by the sweetness 
of their song to sucha degree that the 
listeners forgot everything and died of 
hunger (Greek, sir¢’nes, entanglers). In 
Homeric mythology there were but two 
sirens; later writers name three, viz. 
Parthen’ope, Lig’ea, and Leucos'ia; but 
the number was still further angmented 
by those who loved ‘“‘ lords many and 
gods many.”’ 

“There were several s'rens up and down the 
coast; one at Panormus, another at Naples, 
others at Surrentum, but the greatest number 
lived in the delightful Caprew, whence they 
passed over to the rocks [Sirenu’se]) which bear 
their name.’—Jnquiry into the Life of Homer. 

Sirens, Plato says there are three 
kinds of sirens—the celestial, the genera- 
tive, and the cathartic. The first are 
under the government of Jupiter, the 
second under the government of Nep- 
tune, and the third under the govern- 
ment of Pluto. When the soul is in 
heaven, the sirens seek, by harmonic 
motion, to unite it to the divine life of 
the celestial host ; and when in Hadés, 
to conform them to the infernal regimen ; 
but on earth they produce generation, of 
which the sea is emblematic. (Proclus: 
On the Theology of Plato, bk. vi.) 


Sirius. The Dog-star; so called by 
the Greeks from the adjective seirios, 
hot and scorching. The Romans called 
it canic'ula ; and the Egyptians, sothis, 


Sirloin of Beef. A corruption of 
Surloin. (French, selonge.) La partie du 
δα qui resteaprésqu on enacoupé Vépaule 
et la cuisse. In Queen Elizabeth’s ‘* Pro- 
gresses,’’ one of the items mentioned 
under March 31st, 1573, is ἃ ‘* sorloyne 
of byf.”’ Fuller tells us that Henry VIII. 
joeneuy knighted the surloin. If so, 

ames I. could claim neither wit nor 
originality when, at a banquet given him 
at Hoaron Tower, near Blackburn, he 
said, ‘‘ Bring hither that surloin, sirrah, 
for ‘tis worthy of a more honourable 
post, being, as I may say, not swrloin, 
but sirloin.” 


“ Dining with the Abhot of Reading, he [Henry 
VIII.) ate so heartily of a loin of beef that the 
abbot suid he would give 1(00 marks for sucha 
stomach. ‘Done!’ said the king, and kept the 
abbot a prisoner in the ‘Lower, won his 1,000 
marks, and knighted the beef.’—See Fuller: 
Chuich History, vi. 2, p. 299 (1655), 

Sis’yphus (Latin ; Siswphos, Greek). 
A fraudulent avaricious king of Corinth, 
whose task in the world of shades is to 
roll a huge stone to the top of a hill, and 
fix it there. It so falls out that the stone 
no sooner reaches the hill-top than it 
bounds down again, 


1146 Six 


Sit Bodkin (70). (See ΒΟΡΕΙΝ,) 


Sit Out (70). To remain to the end. 
Not to join, as ‘‘ to sit out a dance.” 


Sit Under...(7Z0). To attend the 
ministry of... 

“Ona Sunday the household marched away in 
separate groups to half-a-dozen edifices, each to 
sit under his or ber favourite minister.”"—W, ΔΙ, 
Thackeray. 

Sit Up (for anyone) (70). To await 
the return of a person after the usual 
hour of bed-time. 

“His own maid would sit up for him.’”—George 
Eliot. 

Sit Upon (70). To snub, squash, 
smother, set down; the Latin insideo. 
Charlotte Bronté, in Shirley (xxviii.), 
uses a phrase which seems analagous: 
Miss Keeldar says she mentioned the 
mischance to no one—‘‘I preferred to 
cushion the matter.”’ 

“Mr, Schwann and his congeners should he 
most energetically sat upon hy colleagues and 
opponents alike, by everyone, in fact, who has 
the welfare of the empire at heart.’—The World, 
April 6th, 1892, p. 19. 

Sit on the Rail or Fence (70). To 
refuse to promise your support to a 
party ; to reserve your vote. 


“Tn American slang, he was always sitting on 
the rail hetween Catholicsand Huguenots.”"—The 
Times. 


Sit on Thorns (70) or on Tenter- 
hooks. To be in a state of anxiety, 
fearful that something will go wrong. 


Sita. Wife of Rima or Vishnu in- 
carnate, carried off by the giant Ravana. 
She was not born, but arose from a 
furrow when her father Jan’aka, Kin 
of Mith’ila, was ploughing. The mae 
means ‘‘ furrow.” 


Sitting in Banco. The judges of 
the courts of law at Westminster are 
said to be ‘‘ sitting in banco”’ so long as 
they sit together on the benches of their 
respective courts—that is, all term time. 
Banco is the Italian for ‘* bench.” 


Sieve and Shears, (See wnder 
ORACLE.) 


Si’va (Indian). The destroyer who, 
with Brahma and Vishnu, forms the 
divine trinity of the Brahmins. He has 
five heads, and is the emblem of fire. 
His wife is Parvati or Parbutta (Sanscrit, 
auspicious). 


Six. Six thrice or three dice. Every- 
thing or nothing. ‘“ Cesar aut nullus.” 
The Greeks and Romans used to play 
with three dice. The highest throw was 
three sixes, and the lowest three aces. 
The aces were left blank, and three aces 
were called ‘‘ three dice.’’ (See C8AR.) 


Six-and-Hightpence 


Six-and-Eightpence used to be 
called a ‘‘noble”’ (q.v.), the third of a 
pound. The half-noble was often called 
“ten groats,’’ and was in Shakespeare’s 
time the usual lawyer’s fee. 

“As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an 
Pieenes 2" —snakesneare : All's Wellthat Ends Weil, 

Six Articles (33 Henry VIII.) en- 
joins the belief in (1) the real presence 
of Christ in the Eucharist; (2) the suf- 
ficiency of communion in one kind; (3) 
the celibacy of the priests; (4) the obli- 
gation of vows of chastity ; (5) the ex- 
pediency of private masses ; and (6) the 
necessity of auricular confession. 


Six-hooped Pot. <A two-quart pot. 
Quart pots were beund with three hoops, 
and when three men joined in drink- 
ing each man drank his hoop, Mine 
host of the Black Bear calls Tressalian 
‘*A six-hooped pot of a traveller,’’ 
meaning a first-class guest, because he 
paid freely, and made no complaints. 
(Kenilworth, chap. ili.) 


Six Members. The six members 
that Charles I. went into the House of 
Commons to arrest were Lord Kimbol- 
ton, Pym, Hollis, Hampden, Sir Arthur 
Haselrig, and Stroud. Being warned in 
time, they made good their escape, 


Six Months’ War. The Franco- 
Prussian (July 28th, 1870, to January 
28th, 1871). 


Six Nations (Zie). The Iroquois 
confederacy since the Tuscaroras was 
added. 


Six Points. (See PEOPLE’s CHARTER.) 


Six-Principle Baptists 716). Those 
whose creed is Hebrews iv. 1, 2. 

Sixes and Sevens (4//).  Ill- 
assorted; not matched; higgledy-pig- 
gledy. 

To be at sixes and sevens. Spoken of 
things, it means in confusion ; spoken of 
persons, it means in disagreement or 
hostility. ‘‘Six, yea seven,’? was a 
Hebrew phrase meaning an indefinite 
number; hence we read in Job (v. 19), 
“Ἢ [God] shall deliver thee in six 
troubles, yea in seven,’’ etc. What is 
indefinite is confused. Our modern 
phrase would be five or six things here, 
and five or six things there, but nothing 
in proper order. 

“* Old Odcomhs odness makes not thee uneven, 

Nor carelessly set all at six and seven.” 

Taylor : Workes, ii. 71 (1620). 

Tong and short sixes. Certain dip 

candles, common in the first half of the 


nineteenth century. Long sixes were | 


1147 


Skeggs 


those eight inches long, short sixes were 
thicker and about five inches long. 
Called sixes because six went to a pound. 


Sixteen-string Jack. John Rann, 
a highwayman, noted for his foppery. 
He wore sixteen tags, eight at each knee. 
(Hanged in 1774.) 

“Dr. Johnson said that Gray’s poetry towered 
above the ordinary run of verse as Sixteen-string 
Jack above the ordinary foot-pud.”—Boswell : 
Life of Johnson. 

Si’zar. A poor scholar whose assize 
of food is given him. Sizars used to 
have what was left at the fellows’ table, 
because it was their duty at one time to 
wait on the fellows at dinner. Each 
fellow had his sizar. (Cambridge Uni- 
versity.) 

Sizings. The quota of food allowed 
at breakfast, and also food ‘‘ sized for”’ 
at dinner. At Cambridge, the students 
are allowed meat for dinner, but tart, 
jelly, ale, etc., are obtained only by pay- 
ing extra. These articles are called 
sizings, and those who demand them size 
for them. The word is a contraction of 
assize, a statute to regulate the size or 
weight of articles sold. (See SIcE.) 

“A size isa portion of brend or drinke: it is a 
farthing which schollers in Cambridge have at 
the buttery. It is noted with the Jetter 5." - 
Minshen. (See also Ellis: Literary Letters, p. 178.) 

Skains-mate or Skeins-mate. A 
dagger-comrade ; a fencing-school com- 

anion; a fellow cut-throat. Skain is 
an Irish knife, similar to the American 
bowie-knife. Swift, describing an Irish 
feast, says, ‘‘ A cubit at least the length 
of their skains.’”? Green, in his Quip 


Sor an Upstart Courtier, speaks of “an 


ill-favoured knave, who wore by his side 
a skane, like a brewer’s bung-knife.”’ 


“Scurvy knave!...Iam none of his skains- 
mates.”—Shakespeare : Romeo and Juliet, 11. 4. 


Skald. An old Norse poet, whose 
aim was to celebrate living warriors or 
theirancestors; hence they were attached 
to courts. Few complete Skaldic poems 
have survived, but a multitude of frag 
ments exist. 


Skedad’dle. To run away, to be 
scattered in rout. The Scotch apply the 
word to the milk spilt over the pail in 
carrying it. During the late American 
war, the New York papers said the 
Southern forces were ‘‘skedaddled”’ by 
the Federals. (Saxon, scedan, to pour 
out; Chaldee, scheda; Greek, skeda’o, 
to scatter.) 

Skeggs. Miss Carolina Withelni'na 


Amelia Skeggs. A pretender to gen- 
tility who boasts of her aristocratic 


Skeleton 


connections, but is atrociously vulgar, 
and complains of being ‘‘ all of a muck 
of sweat.’’ (Goldsmith : Vicar of Wake- 
field.) 

Skel'eton. There is a skeleton in 
every house. Something to annoy and to 
be kept out of sight. 

That is my skeleton—my trouble, the 
‘¢ crook in my lot.”’ 

A woman had an only son who obtained 
an appointment in India, but his health 
failed, and his mother longed for his 
return. One day he wrote a letter to 
his mother, with this strange request: 
‘‘Pray, mother, get someone who has 
no cares and troubles to make me six 
shirts.’”’ The widow hunted in vain for 
such a person, and at length called upon 
a lady who told her to go with her to 
her bedroom. Being there she opened 
a closet which contained a human skele- 
ton. ‘‘Madam,”’ said the lady, “1 try 
to keep my trouble to myself, but 
every night my husband compels me to 
kiss that skeleton.’’ She then explained 
that the skeleton was once her husband’s 
rival, killed in a duel. ‘‘ Think you I 
am happy?’’ The mother wrote to her 
son, and the son wrote home: ‘‘I knew 
when I gave the commission that every- 
one had his cares, and you, mother, 
must have yours. Know then that I am 
condemned to death, and can never 
return to England. Mother, mother! 
there is a skeleton in every house.”’ 


Skeleton Jackets. Jackets on which 
the trousers buttoned, very commonly 
worn by boys in the first quarter of the 
nineteenth century. In the illustrations 
of Kate Greenaway, The Pickwick Papers, 
Nicholas Nickleby, etc., are plenty of 
such skeleton suits. Shell-jackets are 
short fatigue jackets worn especially by 
military officers. 


Skevington’s Daughter, corrupted 
into Scavenger’s Daughter, was an in- 
strument of torture invented by Ske- 
vington, lieutenant of the Tower under 
Henry VIII. It consisted of a broad 
hoop of iron in two parts, fastened to- 
gether by a hinge. The victim was made 
to kneel while the hoop was passed 
under his legs; he was then squeezed 
gradually till the hoop could be got over 
his back, where it was fastened. 


Skibbereen and Connemara (in 
Ireland). Types of poverty and distress. 


“You would then see the United Kingdom one 
vast Skibbereen or Connemara ; you might con- 
yert its factories into poor-houses, and its parks 
into potters’ flelds to bury strangers in.”—C. 
Thomson: Autobiography, Ὁ. 307, 


1148 


Skimmington 


Skibbereen Eagle (Ze). The chiel 
amang ye takin’ notes. It was the Shib- 
bereen, or West Cork Eagle newspaper, 
that solemnly told Lord Palmerston that 
it had ‘‘ got its eye both upon him and on 
the Emperor of Russia.’’ This terrible 
warning has elevated the little insignifi- 
cant town of Skibbereen, in the south- 
west coast of Ireland, quite into a Lilli- 
putian pre-eminence. Beware, beware, 
ye statesmen, emperors, and thrones, for 
the Shkibbereen Eagle has its eye upon 
you! 


Skid. A drag to check the wheels of 
a carriage, cart, etc., when going down 
hill, (Anglo-Saxon, scid, a splinter.) 


Skiddaw. Whenever Skiddaw hath 
a cap, Scruffell wots full well of that. 
When my neighbour’s house is on fire 
mine is threatened; When you are in 
misfortune I also am a sufferer; When 
you mourn I have cause also to lament. 
Skiddaw and Scruffell are two neigh- 
bouring hills—one in Cumberland and 
the other in Annandale in Scotland. 
When Skiddaw is capped with clouds, 
it will be sure to rain ere long at Scruf- 
fell. (Fuller: Worthies.) 


Skied. Pictures are said to be skied 
when they are hung so high as not to be 
easily seen. 

“Bad pictures are hung on the line by dozens 
and many excellent ones are rejected or skied,’ 
—Truth, p. 431 (September 17, 1885). 

Skillygolee. Slip-slop, wish-wash, 
twaddle, talk about gruel. ‘‘ Skilly”’ is 
prison-gruel or, more strictly speaking, 
the water in which meat has been boiled 
thickened with oatmeal. Broth served 
on board the hulks to convicts is called 
skilly. 

“Tt is the policy of Cursitor Street and skilly- 
golee."—The Daily Telegraph. 

Skimble-Skamble. Rambling, 
worthless. ‘‘Skamble”’ is merely a 
variety of scramble, hence ‘‘ scambling 
days,’’ those days in Lent when no regu- 
lar meals are provided, but each person 
““serambles’’ or shifts for~ himself, 
‘‘Skimble’’ is added to give force. 
(See REDUPLICATED WORDS.) 

“ And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff 

As put me from my faith.” ie 

Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV,, iii. 1. 

“With such scamble-scemble, spitter-spatter, 

As puts me cleane beside the money-matter.” 

Taylor's Workes, il. 39 (1630). 

Skim’mington. 170 ride the skim- 
mington, or Riding the stang. To be 
hen-pecked. Grose tells us that the 
man rode behind the woman, with his 
face to the horse’s tail. The man held 
a distaff, and the woman beat him about 


Skin 


1149 


Sky 


the jowls with a ladle. As the proces- 
sion passed a house where the woman 
Was paramount, each gave the threshold 
a sweep. The ‘‘stang’’ was a pole 
supported by two stout lads, across 
which the rider was made to stride. 
Mr. Douce derives ‘‘ skimmington ”’ from 
the skimming-ladle with which the 
rider was buffeted. 

The custom was not peculiar to Scot- 
land and England ; it prevailed in Sean- 
dinavia ; and Hoefnagel, in his Jews i 
Seville (1591), shows that it existed in 
Spain also. ‘The procession is described 
at length in Haudibras, pt. ii. ch. ii. 

“* Wark ye, Dame Ursley Suddlechop,' said Jen- 
kin, starting up, his eyes flashing with anger: 
‘remember, Tam none of your husband, and if I 
were you would do well not to forget whose 
threshold was swept when they last rode the 
skimmington upon such another scolding jade 
as yourself.’”’—Scott: Fortuues of Nigel. 

Skin. 170 sell the skin before you have 
caught the bear, To count of your 
chickens before they are hatched. In 
the South Sea mania (1720), dealing in 
bear-skins was a great stock-jobbing 
item, and thousands of skins were sold 
as mere time bargains. Shakespeare 
alludes to a sinzilar practice :— 

“The man that once did sell the lion’s skin 

While the beast lived, was killed with hunting 

him.” Henry V., iv. 3. 

Skin a Flint. To be very exacting 
in making a bargain. The French say, 
“ς Tondre sur ur euf.’? The Latin, lana 
caprv’na (goat’s wool), means something 
as worthless as the skin of a flint or 
fleece of an eggshell. (See SKINFLINT.) 


_ Skin of his Teeth. J an escaped 
with the skin of my teeth (Job xix. 20). 
Just escaped, and that is all—having 
lost everything. 


’ Skinfaxi, in Scandinavian mythology, 
is the ‘‘ shining horse which draws Day- 
light over the earth.’’ (See Horse.) 


Skinflint. A pinch-farthing; a nig- 
gard. In the French, ‘‘ pince-maille.’’ 
Maille is an old copper coin. 


Skinners. A predatory band in the 
American Revolutionary War which 
roamed over the neutral ground rob- 
bing and fleecing those who refused to 
take the oath of fidelity. (See Ecor- 
CHEURS. ) 


Skirt. 70 sit upon one’s skirt. To 
insult, or seek occasion of quarrel. Tarl- 
ton, the clown, told his audience the 
reason why he wore a jacket was that 
“no one might sit upon his skirt.’ 
Sitting on one’s skirt is, like stamping 


πο Ὁ 


on one’s coat in Ireland, a fruitful 
source of quarrels, often provoked. 
“ Crosse me not, Liza, uether be so perte, 
For if thou dost, I'll sit upon thy skirte.” 
The Abortive of an Idle Howre (1620). 
(Quoted by Halliwell: Archaic Words.) 
Skogan (Henry). A poet in the reign 
of Henry IV. Justice Shallow says he 
saw Sir John Falstaff, when he was a 
boy, ‘‘ break Skogan’s head at the court 
gate, when he [Sir John] was a crack 
[child] not thus high.” (2 Henry .1]"., 
πὶ. 2.) 
“Scogan ? What was he ? 
Oh, a fine gentleman, and a master of arts 
Of Henry the Fourth’s times, that mad» disguises 
Yor the king’s sons, and writ in ballad royal 
Da‘ntily well.” 
Ben Jonson: The Fortunate Isles (1626), 
John Skogan. The favourite buffoon 
of the court of King Edward IV. 
Scoguv’s Jests were published by Andrew 
Borde, a physician, in the reign of 
Henry VIII. 


Skopts, Skopti, or Jhite Doves, 
A Russian religious sect who, taking 
Matt. xix. 12 and Luke xxiii, 29 as the 
bases of their creed, are all eunuchs, and 
the women are mutilated in a most 
barbarous manner, as they deem it a 
Christian grace not to be able to bear 
children. They are vegetarians and 
total abstainers. Origen was a Skopt in 
everything but name. 

“Look at the Mormons, the Skopts, the Shakers, 
the Howling Dervishes, the Theosophists, and 
the Fakirs.”—With the Immortals, vol. 11. p. 50. 

Skull. You shall quaff beer out of the 
skulls of your enemies. (Scandinavian.) 
Skull means a cup or dish; hence a per- 
son who washes up cups and dishes is 
called a scullery-maid. (Scotch, s/ol/, 
a bowl; French, éevelle ; Danish, skaal, 
a drinking-vessel ; German, schale ; our 
shell.) 

Skurry (4). A scratch race, or race 
without restrictions. 

Hurry-skurry. A confused bustle 
through lack of time; in a confused 


bustle. A  reduplicated or ricochet 
word. 
Sky, slang for pocket. Explained 


under the word Curvy (¢.2.). 

Sky. To elevate, ennoble, raise. It 
is a term in ballooning; when the ropes 
are cut, the balloon mounts upwards to 
the skies. (Sec SKIED.) 

“We found the same distinguished personage 
doing his best to sky some dozen or so of his best 
friends [referring to the peers made by Glad- 
stone].”—The Times, November 16, 1869. 

Tf the sky falls we shall catch larks, & 
bantering reply to those who suggest 
some very improbable or wild scheme, - 


Sky-blue 


Sky-blue. Milk and the 


eolour of the skies. 


* Tts name derision and reproach pursue, 
And strangers tell of three times skimmed sky- 
blue,” Bloomspield: Farmer's Boy, 
Sky-rakers, strictly speaking, is a 
sail above the fore-royal, the main-royal, 
or the mizzen-royal, more frequently 
called ‘“‘sky-scrapers.’’ In general par- 
lance any top-sail is so called. 

“Dashed by the strange wind’s sport, we were 
sunk deep in the green sea’s trough; and before 
we could utter an ejaculatory prayer, were up- 
heaved upon the crown of some fantastic surge, 
peering our sky-rakers into the azure vault of 
heaven.”—C. Thomson: Autobiography, p. 120, 

Skye (Js/e of) means the isle of gaps 
or indentations (Celtic, shyb, a gap). 
Hence also the Skibbereen of Cork, 
which is Skyb-bohreen, the byway gap, 
a pass in a mountain to the sea. 


Skylark. A spree. 


Skylark, among sailors, is to mount 
the highest yards (called sky-scrapers), 


water, 


and then slide down the ropes for 
amusement. (See LARK.) 
Slander, Offence. Slander is a 


stumbling-block or something which 
trips a person up (Greek, shan'dalon, 
through the French esclandre). Offence 
is the striking of our foot against a stone 
(Latin, οὐ fendo, as scopulum offendit 
navis, the ship struck against a rock). 


Slang. Slangs are the greaves with 
which the legs of convicts are fettered ; 
hence convicts themselves; and slang is 
the language of convicts. 


Slang. The difficulty of tracing the 
ons et origo of slang words is extremely 
great, as there is no law to guide one. 
Generally, a perversion and a pun may 
be looked for, as Monsecigneur = toe 
(q.v.), Monpensier = ventre (i.e. mon- 
panse, my paunch or belly), etc. (See 
‘Sanpis, S@UASH, and numerous other 
examples in this dictionary. For rhym- 
ing slang see CHIVY.) 


Siap-bang, in sport, means that the 
gun was discharged incessantly ; it went 
slap here and bang there. As a term of 
laudation it means ‘‘ very dashing,’’ both 
words being playful synonyms of ‘‘dash- 
ing,”’ the repetition being employed to 
give intensity. Slap-bang, here we are 
again, means, we have ‘“‘popped”’ in 
again without ceremony. Pop, slap, 
bang, and dash are interchangeable. 

** Dickens uses the word to signify a 
low eating-house, 


“ They lived in the same street, walked to town 
every morning at the same hour, dined at the 
Same slap-bang every day,” 


1150 


l 


Slave 


Slap-dash. In an off-hand manner, 
The allusion is to the method of colouring 
rooms by slapping and dashing the walls, 
so as to imitate paper. At one time 
slap-dash walls were very common. 


Slap-up. Prime slap-up or slap-bang- 
up. Wery exquisite or dashing. Here 
slap is aplayful synonym of dashing, and 
‘‘up’’ is the Latin seper, as in “ super- 
fine.”” The dress of a dandy or the 
equipage of an exquisite is ‘‘slap-up,”’ 
‘prime slap-up,”’ or ‘‘ slap-bang-up.’’ 

“[The] more slap-up still have the shields 
printed on the panels with the coronet over.”— 
Thackeray. 

Slate. He has a slate or tile loose. 
He is a little cracked ; his head or roof 
is not quite sound, 


Slate Club (4). A sick benefit club 
for working-men. Originally the names 
of the members were entered ona folding 
slate; in the universities the names of 
members are marked on a board, or on 
boards; hence such expressions as ‘‘ his 
name is on the boards,”’ ‘‘I have taken 
my name off the boards.”’ 


Slate One (70). To criticise, expose 
in print, show up, reprove. A scholastic 
term. Rebellious and idle boys are 
slated, that is, their names are set down 
ona slate to expose their offence, and 
some punishment is generally awarded. 
“ The journalists there lead each other a dance. 

ee man ‘slates’ another for what he has 


It is pistols for two, and then coffin for one.” 
Punch (The Puyracious Penmen), 1885. 


Slating (4). A slashing review. 

“He cut it uproot and branch... . He gave it 
what he technically styled ‘a slating’; and as he 
threw down his pen... he muttered, ‘I think 
l've pretty well settled that dunce’s business,.”"— 
The World, February 24th, 1892, p, 24. 

Slave (1 syl.). This is an example 
of the strange changes which come over 
some words. The Slavi were a tribe 
which once dwelt on the banks of the 
Dnieper, and were so called from s/av 
(noble, illustrious) ; but as, in the lower 
ages of the Roman empire, vast multi- 
tudes of them were spread over Europe 
in the condition of captive servants, the 
word came to signify a slave, 

Similarly, Goths means the good or 

odlike men; but since the invasion of 
the Goths the word has become synony- 
mous with barbarous, bad, ungodlike. 

_ Distraction is simply ‘‘ dis-traho,’’ as 
diversion is ‘‘di-verto.’”’ The French 
still employ the word for recreation or 
amusement, but when we talk of being 
distracted we mean anything but being 
amused or entertained, ᾿ 


Sleave 11 


Sleave. 1716 ravelled sleave of care 
(Shakespeare: Macbeth). The sleave is 
the knotted or entangled part of thread 
or silk, the raw edge of woven articles. 
Chaucer has “ sleeveless words’? (words 
like ravellings, not knit together to 
any wise purpose) ; Bishop Hall has 
“ sleaveless rhymes ’’ (random rhymes) ; 
Milton speaks of ‘‘sleeveless reason’’ 
(reasoning which proves nothing) ; Tay- 
lor the water-poet has ‘‘ sleeveless mes- 
sage ’’ (a simple message; it now means 
a profitiess one). The weaver’s slaie is 
still used. (Saxon, s/@, a weaver’s reed ; 
Danish, s/éjfe, a knot.) 

“ Tf all these faile, a beggar-woman may 

A sweet love-letter to her hands conyvay, 

Or a neat laundresse or a hearb-wife can 

Carry a sleevelesse message now and than.” 
Taylor's Workes, ii. 111 (1620), 

Sleck-stone. The ebon stone used 
by goldsmiths to slecken (polish) their 
gold with. Curriers use a similar stone 
ΤΟΥ smoothing out creases of leather; the 
slecker is also made of glass, steel, etc. 
(Icelandic, s/ii7, our word sleek.) 

Sledge-hammer. <A sledge-hammer 
argunent. A clincher; an argument 
which annihilates opposition at a blow. 
The sledge-hammer is the largest sort of 
hammer used by smiths, and is wielded 
by both hands, The word sledge is the 
Saxon s/ecge (a sledge). 


Sleep (Anglo-Saxon s/epen). Crabbe’s 
etymology ot doze under this word is 
exquisite :— 

“Doze, a variation from the French dors and 
the Latin dormio (to sleep), which was anciently 
dermio. and comes from the Greek derma (a skin), 
because people lay on skins when they slept” /— 
Synonyms. 

To sleep away. To pass away in sleep, 
to consume in sleeping; as, to sleep 
one’s life away. 

To sleep off. To get rid of by sleep. 


Sleep like a Top. When peg-tops 
and humming-tops are at the acme of 
their gyration they become so steady 
and quiet that they do not seem to move, 
‘In this state they are said to sleep. 
Soon they begin to totter, and the tipsy 
movement increases till they fall. The 
French say, Dormir comme un sabot, and 
Mon sabot dort. (See SIMILEs.) 


Sleeper (Ze). Epimen’idés, the 
Greek poet, is said to have fallen asleep 
in a cave when a boy, and not to have 
waked for fifty-seven years, when he 
found himself possessed of all wisdom. 
Rip Van Winkle, in Washington Irving’s 


~ 


v 


tale, is supposed to sleep for twenty 
years, and wake up an old man, un- 
knowing and unknown. (See Kaus.) 


i Sleeveless Errand 


Sleepers. Timbers laid asleep or rest- 
ing on something, as the sleepers of a 
railway. (Anglo-Saxon, sl@pere.) 

The Seven Sleepers. (See SEVEN.) 

Sleeping Beauty. From the French 
La Belle au Bois Dormante, by Charles 
Perrault (Contes du Temps). She is shut 
up by enchantment in a castle, where 
she sleeps a hundred years, during which 
time an impenetrable wood springs up 
around. Ultimately she is disenchanted 
by a young prince, who marries her. 
Epimen'idés, the Cretan poet, went to 
fetch a sheep, and after sleeping fifty- 
seven years continued his search, and 
was surprised to find when he got home 
that his younger brother was grown 
grey. (See Rip VAN WINELE.) 


Sleepless Hat (4). A worthless, 
worn-out hat, which has no nap. 


Sleepy Hollow. The name given, 
in Washington Irving’s Sketeh Book, to 
a quiet old-world village on the Hudson. 


Sleeve. Zo hang on one’s sleeve. To 
listen devoutly to what one says; to 
surrender your freedom of thought and 
action to the judgment of another. The 
allusion is to children hanging on their 
mother’s sleeve. 

To have in one’s sleeve is to offer a 
person’s name for a vacant situation. 
Dean Swift, when he waited on Harley, 
had always some name in his sleeve. 
The phrase arose from the custom of 
placing pockets in sleeves. These sleeve- 
pockets were chiefly used for memo- 
randa, and other small articles. 

To laugh in one’s sleeve. To ridicule 
a person not openly but in secret; to 
conceal a laugh by hiding your face in 
the large sleeves at one time worn by 
men. tre sous cape. 

To pin to one’s sleeve, as, “1 shan’t 
pin my faith to your sleeve,’’ meaning, 
‘*T shall not slavishly believe or follow 
you.’’? The allusion is to the practice of 
knights, in days of chivalry, pinning 
to their sleeve some token given them 
by their ladylove. This token was a 
pledge that he would do or die. 


Sleeve of Care. (Sce SLEAVE.) 


Sieeve of Hildebrand (712), from 
which he shook thunder and lightning. 


Sleeveless Errand. A _ fruitless 
errand. It should be written s/eaveless, 
as it comes from s/eave, ravelled thread, 
or the raw-edge of silk. In Troilus 
and Cressida, Thersi'tés the railer calls 
Patroclus an ‘‘idle immaterial skein of 
sleive silk’’ (v. 1). 


Sleight of Hand 


Sleight of Hand is artifice by the 
hand. (Icelandic, sledgh ; German, 
schlich, cunning or trick.) 

“ And still the less they understand, 
The more they admire his sleight of land.” 
Butler: Hudibras, pt.il. ¢. 3. 

Sleip’nir (2 syl.). Odin’s grey horse, 
which had eight legs, and could carry 
his master over sea as well as land. 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Slender. A country lout, a booby 
in love with Anne Page, but of too faint 
a heart to win so fair a lady. (Shake- 
speare: Merry Wives of Windsor.) 

Sleuth-Hound. A _ blood-hound 
which follows the s/ewth or track of an 
animal, (οί, the track of a deer, is 
the Anglo-Saxon sleting; Icelandic, 
sloth, trail; Dutch, s/oot.) 

“There is a law also among the Borderers in 
time of peace, that whoso denieth entrance or 
sute of a sleuth-hound in pursuit made after 
fellons and stolen goods, shall be holden as 
accessarie unto the theft.’—Holinshed : Descrip 
tion of Scotland, p. 14. 

Slewed. Intoxicated. When a 
vessel changes her tack, she staggers 
and gradually heels over, A drunken 
man moves like a ship changing her 
angle of sailing. (Probably from the 
Icelandic, swa, turn.) 


“Mr. Hornby was just a bit slewed by the liquor 
he’d taken.’—W. C. Russell: A Strange Voyage, 


chap. xii. p. 25. 

Slick (Sam). A Yankee clock-maker 
and pedlar, wonderfully ’cute, a keen 
observer, and with plenty of ‘soft 
sawder.’? Judge Haliburton wrote the 
two series called Sam Slick, or the Clock- 
maker. 

Slick Off. To finish a, thing there 
and then without stopping; to make a 
clean sweep of a job in hand. Judge 
Haliburton’s Sam Slick popularised the 
word. (German, schlicht, sleek, polished, 
hence clean; Icelandic, slike, sleek.) We 
say, “ΤῸ do a thing clean off’ as well 
as ‘‘slick off.’’ 

Sliding Seale. A schedule of pay- 
ment which slides up and down as the 
article to which it refers becomes dearer 
or cheaper. In government duty it 
varies as the amount taxed varies. 


Slip. Many a slip’ twixt the cup and 
the lip. Everything is uncertain till you 
possess it. (See ANCZOS.) 

“Multa cadunt inter calicem supremaque labra.” 


Ho: ace. 
To give one the slip. To steal off 
unperceived ; to elude pursuit. A sea- 


phrase. In fastening a cable to a buoy, 
the home end is slipped through the 
hawse-pipe. To give the slip is to cut 


1152 


Slubber-Degullion 


= 


away the cable, so as to avoid the noise 
of weighing anchor. 


Slippers. The Turks wear yellow 
slippers; the Armenians, ved ; and the 
Jews, blue. 

Slipshod, applied to literature, means 
a loose, careless style of composition ; no 
more fit for the public eye than a man 
with his shoes down at heels. 


Slipslop. A ricochet word meaning 
wishy-washy. (Anglo-Saxon, s/ip-an, 
to melt, which makes s/open in the past 
participle.) 

Sloane MSS. 3,560 MSS. collected 
by Sir Hans Sloane, now in the British 
Museum. The museum of Sir Hans 
formed the basis of the British Museum, 
(1660-1753. ) 

Slogan. A war-cry, a Scotch gather- 
ing-cry. (Anglo-Saxon, s/ean, to fight, 
pret. slog; Gaelic, sluagh-gairm, an 
army-yell.) 

Slop (D.). A choleric physician in 
Sterne’s 7ristram Shandy. 

Dr, Slop. Sir John Stoddart, M.D., 
a choleric physician who assailed Napo- 
leon most virulently in Zhe Times, of 
which he was editor. (1773-1856.) 


Slops (Zhe). The police; originally 
“ ecilop.”” 
“1 dragged you in here and saved you, 
And sent out a gal for the slops ; 
Ha ! they're acomin’, sir! Listen! 
The noise and the shoutin’ stops.” 
Sims: Ballads of Bubylon (The Matron’s Story). 

Slo’pard (Dame). The wife of Grim- 
bard, the brock (or badger), in the tale 
of Reynard the Fox. 

Slope (1 syl.). 
away. 

Slough of Despond. A deep bog 
which Christian has to cross in order to 
get to the Wicket Gate. Help comes to 
his aid. Neighbour Pliable went with 
Christian as far as the Slough, and then 
turned back again. (Banyan: Pilgrin’s 
Progress, part 1.). 

Slow. Stupid, dull. A “ quick boy”’ 
is one who is sharp and active. Amfully 
slow, slang for very stupid and dull, 


Slow Coach. A dawdle. As a slow 
coach in the o!d coaching-days ‘‘ got 
on” slowly, so one that ‘gets on” 
slowly is a slow coach. 


Slubber-Degullion. A nasty, paltry 
fellow. A slubisa roll of wool drawn 
out and only slightly twisted ; hence to 
slubber, to twist loosely, to do things by 


To decamp; to run 


Slug-abed 


1153 


Smell 


halves, to perform a work carelessly. 
Degullion is compounded of the word 
“‘oull,”? or the Cornish ‘‘gullan,” a 
simpleton. 


“ Quoth she, ‘Although thou hast deserved, 
Base slubhber-degullion, to be served 
As thou didst vow to deal with me.” 


Butler; Hudibras, i. 3. 
Slug-abed (4). A late riser. 


“The butercup is no slug-abed.”"—Notes and 
Queries (Aug. 11, 1894, p. 1118, col. 2). 


Slumland. The localities of the des- 
titute poor who dwell in the slums. 


“Not only have we the inhabitants of Slum- 
Jand to deal with, but a steadily growing number 
of sxilled and fairly educated artisans,’’—Nine- 
teenth Century, December, 1892, p. 888, 

Slums. ‘‘ The back slums ’’—i.¢. the 
purlieus of Westminster Abbey, etc., 


where vagrants get a night’s lodging. 


Sly (Christopher). A keeper of bears 
and a tinker, son of a pedlar, and a 
sad, drunken sot. In the Induction of 
Shakespeare’s comedy called Taming of 
the Shrew, he is found dead drunk by a 
lord, who commands his servants to put 
him to bed, and on his waking to attend 
upon him like a lord, to see if they 
can bamboozle him into the belief that 
he is a great man, and not Christopher 
Sly at all. The ‘‘commonty” of Taming 
of the Shrew is performed for his delec- 
tation. The trick was played by the 
Caliph Haroun Alraschid on Abou Has- 
san, the rich merchant, in the tale called 
The Sleeper Awakened (Arabian Nights), 
and by Philippe the Good, Duke of Bur- 
gundy, on his marriage with Eleanor, 
as given in Burton’s Anatomy of Melan- 
choly (pt. ii. sec. 2, num. 4). 


Sly-Boots. One who appears to bea 

dolt, but who is really wide awake; a 
cunning dolt. 
_ “The frog called the lazy one several times, but 
In Vain ; there was no such thing as stirring him, 
though the sly-boots heard well enough all the 
while.”—Adventures of Abdalla, p. 32 (1729). 

Sly Dog. You're a sly dog. ‘‘ Un fin 
matois.”’ A playful way of saying, You 
pretend to be disinterested, but I can 
read between the lines. 


Sly as a Fox. (See SILEs.) 


Slyme (Chevy). In Martin Chuzzlewit, 
by Charles Dickens. 


Small. Small by degrees and beauti- 
fully less. Prior, in his Henry and Emma, 
wrote ‘‘ Fine by degrees,”’ etc. 


Small-back. Death. So called be- 
cause he is usually drawn as a skeleton. 


“Small-back must lead down the dance with us 
all in our time.”—Sir Walter Scott, 


72 


Small Beer. ‘To suckle fools and 
chronicle small beer.’”? (Iago in the 
play of Othello, ii. 1.) 

He does not think small beer of himself. 
He has avery good opinion of number 
one. 

“To express her self-esteem [it might he said] 
that she did not think small beer of herself.”—De 
Quincey : Historical Essays. 

Small-endians. The Big-endians of 
Lilliput made it a point of orthodoxy to 
crack their eggs at the big end; but 
were considered heretics for so doing 
by the Small-endians, who insisted that 
eges ought to be broken at the small 
end. (Swift: Gulliver's Travels.) 


Small Hours of the Morning (7/c). 
One, two, three, four, etc., before day- 
break. A student who sits up all night, 
and goes to bed at one, two, three, etc., 
is said to work till the small hours of 
the morning, or to go to bed in the 
small hours of the morning. 


Smalis. In for his smalls ; Passed his 
smalls—his ‘‘ Little-go,’’ or previous ex- 
amination; the examination for degree 
being the ‘‘ Great-go,”’ or ‘‘ Greats.”’ 


Smart Money. Money paid by a 
person to obtain exemption from some 
disagreeable office or duty; in Jaw it 
means a heavy fine ; and in recompense 
it means money given to soldiers or 
sailors for injuries received in the service. 
It either makes the person ‘‘ smart,”’’ ἐ.6, 
suffer, or else the person who receives it 
is paid for smarting. 


Smash. Come to smash—to ruin. 
Smashed to pieces, broken to atoms. 
Smash is a corruption of mash ; Latin, 
mastico, to bite to pieces. (See SLOPE.) 

“T havea great mind to... let social position 
go to smash.”—Eggleston : Faith Doctor, 1». 63. 

Smee (in Hudibras). A contraction 
of Smectymnuus, a word made from the 
initial letters of five rebels— 

Stephen Marshal. 

Edward Calamy. 

Thomas Young. 

Matthew Newcomen. 

William Spurstow, who wrote a book 
against Episcopacy and the Common 
Prayer. (See ΝΟΤΑΒΙΟΑ.) 

“ The handkerchief about the neck, 


Canonical cravat of Smec.” Ε 
Butler: Hudibras, pt. 1.5, 


Smectym’nuans, Anti-Episcopa- 
lians. 
Smectym'nus. (See NoTARICcA.) 


Smell (an acute sense). James Mit- 
chell was deaf, dumb, and blind from 
birth, ‘‘ but he distinguished persons by 


Smell a Rat 


1154 


Snakes 


their smell, and by means of the same 
sense formed correct judgments as to 
character.”’ Gioneraonih Century, April, 
1894, p. 579.) 


Smell a Rat (710). To suspect some- 
thing about to happen. ‘The allusion is 
to a cat or dog smelling out vermin. 

I smell treason. I discern treason in- 
volved ; I have some aim that would lead 
to treason. 


Smelling Sin. Shakespeare says, 
“Do you smell a fault ?”’ (ing Lear, i. 
1) ; and Iago says to Othello, ‘‘ One may 
smell in this a will most rank.’’ Pro- 
bably the smell of dogs may have some- 
thing to do with such phrases, but St. 
Jerome furnishes even a better source. 
He says that St. Hilarion had the gift of 
knowing what sins or vices anyone was 
inclined to by simply smelling either the 
person or his garments; and by the 
same faculty he could discern good feel- 


ings and virtuous propensities. (Life of 
Hilarion, A.D. 390.) 
Smells of the Lamp. Said of a 


literary production manifestly laboured. 
Plutarch attributes the phrase to Pytheas 
the orator, who said, ‘‘ The orations of 
Demos'thenés smell of the lamp,’’ allud- 
ing to the current tale that the great 
orator lived in an underground cave 
lighted by a lamp, that he might have 
no distraction to his severe study. 


Smelts (Stock-Exchange term), mean- 
ing ‘“‘English and Australian copper 
shares.”’? (Sce Stock-EXcHANGE SLANG.) 


Smiler, the name of a drink, is a 
mixture of bitter beer and lemonade. 
In the United States, a drink of liquor 
is called a ‘‘smile,’? and the act of 
treating one at the bar is giving one a 


‘*smile.’? Of course this is metaphor- 
ical. (See SHANDY-GAFF.) 

Smith. A proper name. (See 
BREWER.) 


Smith of Nottingham. Ray, in his 
Collection of Proverbs, has the following 
couplet :— 

“ The little Smith of Nottingham, 
Who doth the work that no man can,” 
_Applied to conceited persons who ima- 
gine that no one is able to compete with 
themselves. 


Smith’s Prize-man. One who has 
obtained the prize (£25), founded in the 
University ot Cambridge by Robert 
Smith, D.D. (once master of Trinity), for 
proficiency in mathematics and natural 
philosophy. There are annually two 


rizes, awarded to two commencing 
Bachelors of Arts. 


Smithfield. The smooth field (Anglo- 
Saxon, smethe, smooth), called in Latin 
Jampus Planus, and described by Fitz- 
Stephen in the twelfth century as a 
‘*plain field where every Friday there 
is a celebrated rendezvous of fine horses 
brought thither to be sold.”’ 


Smoke. To detect, or rather to get 
a scent, of some plot or scheme, The 
allusion is to the detection of robbers by 
the smoke seen to issue from their place 
of concealment. 

No smoke without fire. Tivery slander 
has some foundation. The reverse pro- 
verb, ‘‘ No fire without smoke,’’ means 
no good without some drawback. 

To end in smoke. 'Tocome to no prac- 
tical result. The allusion is to kindling, 
which smokes, but will not light a fire. 

To smoke the calumeé (or pipe) of peace. 
(See CALUMET.) 


Smoke Farthings. An offering 
given to the priest at Whitsuntide, ac- 
cording to the number of chimneys in 
his parish. 

“The Bishop of Elie hath out of everie parish in 
Cambridgeshirea certain tribute called... smoke- 
Jarthings, which the churchwardens do levie ac- 
cording to the number of... chimneys that be 
in a parish.”’—MSS. Baker, Xx xix. 326. 

Smoke Silver. A modus of 6d. in 
lieu of tithe firewood. 


Snack, Zhe snack of adoor (Norfolk). 
The latch. Generally called the ‘‘ sneck’’ 


.0.). 
To take a snack. Τὸ take a morsel. 
To go snacks. Toshare and share alike. 


Snails have no sex, ‘‘chacun remis- 
sant les deux sexes.’ (Anglo-Saxon, 
snegl.) 


Snake-Stones. Small rounded stones 
or matters compounded by art, and sup- 
posed to cure snake-bites. Mr. Quekett 
discovered that two given to him for 
analysis were composed of vegetable 
matters. Little perforated stones are 
sometimes hung on cattle to charm away 
adders. 


Snake in the Grass. A _ secret 
enemy ; an enemy concealed from sight. 
Rhyming slang, ‘‘ a looking-glass.”’ 

“ Latet anguis in her)a.”’. ἊΝ 
Virgil, Eclogue iii. 93. 

Snakes in his Boots (710 have). To | 
suffer from D.T. (delirium tremens). 
This is one of the delusions common to 
those so afflicted. 


“He's been pretty high on whisky for two or 
three days, ... and they say_he’s got snakes in 
his boots now.”—Zhe Barton Experiment, chap. ix. 


Snap-Dragons 1 


5 Snowdrop 


SS nS as ee eg 


Snap-Dragons. (See Fiap-Dracon.) 


Snap of the Fingers. Not worth a 
snap of the fingers. A fico, (See Fic.) 


Snap One’s Nose Off. (Sve under 
Nos.) 


Snarling Letter (Latin, lit'era ca- 
una). The letter γ. (See R.) 


Sneck Posset. To give one a sneck 
posset is to slam the door in his face 
(Cumberland and Westmoreland), The 
*‘sneck ’’ or snick is the latch of a door, 
and to ‘‘ sneck the door in one’s face”? is 
to shut a person out. Mrs. Browning 
speaks of ‘‘ nicking’? the door. 


“The lady closed 
That door, and nicked the lock.” 
Aurora Leigh, book vi. line 1,007. 
Probably allied to niche, to put the latch 
into its niche. 


Sneezed. T¢ is not to be sneczed at— 
not tobe despised. (See SNUFF.) 


Sneezing. Some Catholics attribute 
to St. Gregory the use of the benediction 
*‘God bless you,’ after sneezing, and 
say that he enjoined its use during a 
pestilence in which sneezing was a mortal 
symptom, and was therefore called the 
death-sneeze. Aristotle mentions a 
similar custom among the Greeks; and 
Thucyd'idés tells us that sneezing was a 


crisis symptom of the great Athenian. 


plague. The Romans followed the same 
custom, and their usual exclamation was 
** Absit omen!’? We also find it pre- 
valent in the New World among the 
native Indian tribes, in Sennaar, Mono- 
matapa, etc. etc. 


*. It is almost incredible how ancient and low 
widely diffused is the notion that sneezing is an 
omen which requires to be averted. The notion 
prevailed not only in ancient Greece and Rome, 
but is existent in Persia, India, and even Africa. 
The rabbins tell us that Jacob in bis flight gave 
a sneeze, the evil effects of which were averted 
by prayer. 

Τὴ the conquest of Florida, when the Spaniards 
arrived, the Cazique, we are told, sneezed, and all 
the court lifted up their hands and implored the 
sun to avert the evil omen. 

In the rebellion of Monomatapa, in Africa, the 
king sneezed, and a signal of the fact heing given, 
all the faithful subjects instantly made vows and 
offerings for his safety. The same is said respect- 
ing Sennaar, in Nubia, in Sweden, etc. 

The Sadder (one of the sacred books of the 
Parsees) enjoins that all. people should have 
recourse to prayer if a person sneezes, because 
sneezing isa proof that the“ Evil Spirit is abroad.” 

Foote, in his farce of Dr. Last in His Chariot, 
makes one of the consulting doctors ask why, 
when a person sneezes, all the company bows? and 
the answer given wasthat “ sneezing is a mortal 
symptom which once depopulated Athens.” 

“In Sweden .... you sneeze, and they cry God 
bless you."—Longfeliow. 


Snickersnee. A large clasp-knife, 
or combat with clasp-knives. (‘‘Snick,”’ 
Icelandie snikka, to clip; verb, snitte, 


to cut. ‘‘Snee”’ is the Dutch snee, an 
edge; snijden, to cut.) Thackeray, in 
his Little Billee, uses the term ‘snick- 
ersnee.”’ 


“One man heing busy in lighting his pipe. and 
another in sharpening his snickersnee.”—J7ving : 


Bracebridge Hall, p. 462. 
Snider Rifle. (Sze Gun.) 


Snob. Not a gentleman; one who 
arrogates to himself merits which he does 
not deserve. Thackeray calls George IV. 
a snob, because he assumed to be ‘the 
greatest’ gentleman in Europe,” but had 
not the genuine stamp of a gentleman’s 


mind. (S privative and 7b.) 
Snood. The lassie lost her silfcen 
snood. The snood was a riband with 


which a Scotch lass braided her hair, 
and was the emblem of her maiden cha- 
racter. When she married she changed 
the snood for the curch or coif; but if 
she lost the name of virgin before she 
obtained that of wife, she “lost her silken 
snood,”’ and was not privileged to assume 
the curch. (Anglo-Saxon, svdd.) 


Snooks. An exclamation of incredu- 
lity ; a Mrs. Harris. A person tells an 
incredible story, and the listener cries 
Snooks—gammon ; or he replies, Zé was 
Snooks—the host of the Chateau d’Es- 
pagne. This word ‘‘snook’’ may bea cor- 
ruption of Noakes or Nokes, the mythical 
party at one time employed by lawyers 
to help them in actions of ejectment. 
(See STYLES.) 


Snecre. Vow snore like an owl. It is 
very generally believed that owls snore, 
and it is quite certain that a noise like 
suoring proceeds from their nests; but 
this is most likely the ‘‘ purring ”’ of the 
young birds, nestling in comfort and 
warmth under the parent wing. 


Snow King. Gustavus Adolphus, of 
Sweden. (1594, 1611-1632. 


“At Vienna he was called in derision the Snow 
King, who was kept together by the cold, but 
would melt and disappear as he approached a 
warmer soil."—Dr. Crichton : Scandinavia, vol. ii. 


p. 61. 

Snowdo’nia. The district which 
contains the mountain range of Snow- 
don. 

The King of Snowdonia. Moel-y- 
Wyddfa (the conspicuous peak), the 
highest in South Britain. (3,571 feet 
above the sea-level.) 


Snowdrop (The). Tickell’s fable is 
that King Albion’s son fell in love with 
Kenna, daughter of Oberon, but Oberon 
in anger drove the lover out of fairyland. 
Albion’s son brought an army to avenge 
the indignity, and was slain, Kenna 


Snuff 


1156 


Société de Momus 


applied the herb moly to the wounds, 
hoping to restore life; but the moment 
the juice of the herb touched the dead 
body it was converted into a snowdrop. 
Called the Fair Maid of February. 


Snuff. Up to snuff. Wide awake, 
knowing, sharp; not easily taken in or 
imposed upon; alive to scent (Dutch, 
smiffen, to scent, suf; Danish, snéfte). 

Took vt in snuff—in anger, in huff. 

“You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff.” 

Shakespeare: Love's Labour's Lost, v. 2. 


_ “Who, ... when it nexf_ came there, took it 
in snuff.""—Shakespeare : 1 Henry IV., i. 3. 


Snuff Out. He was snuffed out—put 
down, eclipsed. The allusion is to a 
candle snuffed with snuffers. 


Soane Museum, formed by Sir John 
Soane, and preserved in its original 
locality, No. 13, Lincoln’s Inn Fields, 
the private residence of the founder. Sir 
John Soane died in 1837. 


Soap. An English form of savor, the 
French for soap. 

How are you off for soap 2? (for money 
or any other necessity). The insurgent 
women of Paris, in February, 1793, went 
about crying, ‘‘ Du pain et du savon!”’ 
(bread and soap). 

“A deputation of washwomen petitioned the 
Convention for soap, and their plaintive cry was 
heard round the Salle de Manege, ‘ Du pain et du 
ἘΠΌΟΝ !’"°—Carlyle: French Revolution, pt. iii. bk. 

Soap (Castile). A hard white soap 
made of olive oil, sometimes mottled 
with ferruginous matter. 


There are also Marseilles soap, Spanish soap, 
Venetian soap, and marine soap (usually made of 
cocoanut oil: and used with sea-water). 

Sceaped-pig Fashion (/z). Vague; 
a method of speaking or writing which 
always leaves a way of escape. The 
allusion is to the custom at fairs, etc., of 
soaping the tail of a pig before turning 
it out to be caught by the tail. 

“He is vague as may be; writing in what is 
called the ‘soaped-pig’ fashion.”.—Carlyle: The 
Diamond Necklace, chap. iv. 

Scapy Sam. Samuel Wilberforce, 
Bishop of Oxford, and afterwards of 
Winchester. (1805-1873.) It is some- 
what remarkable that the floral decora- 
tions above the stall of the bishop and 
of the principal of Cuddesdon, were 
8S. O. A. P. (the initials of Sam Oxon 
and Alfred Pott. When Samuel Wilber- 
force went to inspect the building he 
was dismayed at seeing his sobriquet 
thus perpetuated. 


Someone asking the bishop why he was so 
called, the bishop replied, “ Because Tam often in 
he act and always come out with clean 

8. 


Sober or Sobrius is the Latin s pri- 
vative, and ebrius, drunk, (5 priva- 
tive is for 8601) 51))}.} 


Sober as a Judge—i.c. grave and 
sedate, (See SIMILES.) 


Sobri'no (in Orlando Furioso). One 
of the most valiant of the Saracen army. 
He is called the Sage. He was aged, 
and counselled Ag’ramant to give up the 
war and return home, or, if he rejected 
that advice, to entrust the fight to single 
combat, on condition that the nation of 
the champion overthrown should pay 
tribute to the other. Roge’ro was chosen 
for the pagan champion, and Rinaldo for 
the Christian, but Agramant broke the 
league. Sobri‘no soon after this received 
the rite of baptism. 

Don Quixote asks— 

“Who more prudent than Sobrino ?” 


So’briquet (French). A nickname, 
Ménage thinks the etymology is the 
Latin subridiculum (somewhat ridicu- 
lous); Count de Gebelin suggests the 
Romance words sopra-quest (a name ac- 
quired over and above your proper 
names) ; while Leglay is in favour of 
soubriquet, a word common in the four- 
teenth century to express a sound of 
contempt, half whistle and half jeer, 
made by raising quickly the chin. Pro- 
bably sous-brechet, where brechet means 
the breast, seen in our word ‘‘ brisket.” 


So’cialism (3 syl.). The political 
and social scheme of Robert Owen, of 
Montgomeryshire, who in 1816 published 
a work to show that society was in a 
wretched condition, and all its institu- 
tions and religious systems were based 
on wrong principles. The prevailing 
system is competition, but Owen main- 
tained that the proper principle is co- 
operation; he therefore advocated a 
community of property and the aboli- 
tion of degrees of rank. (1771-1858.) 

The Socialists are called also Owenites 
(3 syl.). In France the Fourierists and 
St. Simonians are similar sorts of com- 
munists, who receive their designations 
from Fourier and St. Simon (¢.v.). 


Société de Momus. One of the 
minor clubs of Paris for the reunion of 
song-writers and singers. The most 
noted of these clubs was the Caveau, or 
in full Les Diners du Caveau, founded in 
1733 by Piron, Crébillon, jun., and Col- 
let. Thisclub lasted tillthe Revolution. 
In the Consulate was formed Les Diners 
du Vaudeville, for the habitués of the 
drama; these diners were held in the 
house of Julliet, an actor. In 1806 the 


vociety 


old Caveau was revived under the name 
of the Caveau Moderne, and the muster 
was once a month at a restaurant en- 
titled Za Rocher de Cancale, famous 
for fish dinners, and Laujon (the French 
Anacreon) was president. Béranger be- 
longed to this club, which lasted ten 
years. In 1824 was founded the Gymnase 
Lyrique, which, like the Caveau, pub- 
lished an annual volume of songs; this 
society was dissolved in 1841. In 1894 
was founded La Lice Chansonniére, for 
those who could not afford to join the 
Caveau or the Gymnase, to which we owe 
some of the best French sungs. 


Society. The upper ten thousand, or 
“‘the upper ten.’’ When persons are in 
“society,’’ they are on the visiting lists 
of the fashionable social leaders, The 
‘society’? of a district are the great 
panjandrums thereof. 

“ All the society of the district were present at 
the prince's ball.”"—Newspaper paragraph, Decem- 
ber, 1885. : 

Sock [comedy]. The Greek comic 
actors used to wear a sandal and sock. 
The difference between the sock and the 
tragic buskin was this—the sock went 
only to the ankle, but the buskin ex- 
tended to the knee. (See ΒΌΒΚΙΝ.) 

“Then to the well-trod stage anon, 
If Jonson's learned sock he on.” 
Milton: L’ Allegro. 

Sock a Cerpse (70). To shroud it. 
(French, sac, a cerement or shroud.) 

“1591. Item paid fora sheet to sock a poor man 
that died at Byneons, ls. 6d."°—Parish Register. 

Socrates. The greatest of the an- 
cient philosophers, whose chief aim was 
to amend the morals of his countrymen, 
the Athenians. Cicero said of him that 
ἔξ ἢ brought down philosophy from the 
heavens to earth ;’’ and he was certainly 
the first to teach that ‘‘ the proper study 
of mankind is man.’’ Socrates resisted 
the unjust sentence of the senate, which 
condemned to death the Athenian gene- 
rals for not burying the dead at the 
battle of Arginu’se. 

“Socratés— 
Who, firmly good in a corrupted state, 
Avainst the rage of tyrants single stood 
Invincible.” Thonson: Winter. 

Socrates used to call himself ‘the 
midwife of men’s thoughts.’’ Out of 
his intellectual school sprang those of 
Plato and the Dialectic system; Euclid 
and the Megaric: Aristippos and the 
Cyrenaic ; Antis’thenes and the Cynic. 


Sodom. Apples of Sodom or mad 
apples. Strabo, Tacitus, and Josephus 
describe them as beautiful externally 
and filled with ashes, These ‘‘apples’’ 


1157 


Softly 


are in reality gall-nuts produced by the 
insect called Cynips insa’na. 


Sof’farides (3 syl.). A dynasty of 
four kings, which lasted thirty-four 
years and had dominion over Khorassan, 
Seistan, Fars, etc. (873-907); founded 
by Yacoub ebn Laith, surnamed αὐ 
Soffar (the brazier), because his father 
followed that trade in Seistan. 


Soft. He's a soft—half a fool. The 
word originally meant effeminate, un- 
manly; hence soft in brains, silly, etc., 
“soft in courage.” (8 Henry VTI., ii. 2.) 

Soft Sawder. Flattery, adulation. 
A play is intended between solder (pro- 
nounced sawder) and sawder, a com- 
pound of saw (a saying). Soft solder, a 
composition of tin and lead, is used for 
soldering zine, lead, and tin ; hard solder 
for brass, ete. (French, sowdwre, Latin, 


solidus.) 
Soft Soap. Flattery, complimentary 
words. (See SOAPY Sam.) 


Soft as Soap—as “‘silk,”’ as ‘‘velvet.”’ 
(See SIMILES.) 


Soft Fire makes Sweet Malt (4). 
Too fierce a fire would burn malt and 
destroy its sweetness, and too much 
hurry or precipitation spoils work. 
“<Soft and fair goes far;’’ ‘‘Love me 
little, love me long ;”’ ‘‘ Slow and steady 
wins the race ;’’ ‘‘ He who is in haste 
fishes in an empty pond:”’ ‘‘ The more 
haste the worse speed;’’ ‘‘He who 
walks too hastily will stumble in a plain 
way ;”’ ‘‘ Hastily and well never met ;”’ 
“‘Ttis good to have a hatch before the 
door ;’’ ‘‘ Hasty climbers have sudden 
falls.”’ 


Soft Words Butter no Parsnips, 
or ‘‘ Fair words,’”’ etc. Saying ‘‘ Be 
thou fed’? will not feed a hungry man. 
“*Good words will not fill a sack.’’ To 
‘“ butter parsnips’’ means also ‘‘ dover la 


pilule”’ (**soft words will not gild the 


pill of distress”’). 

Softly. 170 waik softly. Tobe out of 
spirits. In Greece, mourners for the 
dead used to cut off their hair, go about 
mufiled, and walk softly to express want 
of spirit and strength. When Elijah 
denounced the judgments of heaven 
against Ahab, that wicked king ‘fasted, 
and lay in sackcloth, and went softly ἢ 
to show that his strength was exhausted 
with sorrow (1 Kings xxi. 27). Isaiah 
says, ‘‘ I shall go sottly all my years in 
the bitterness of my soul”? (xxxvili. 15). 
The Psalmist says, ‘“‘ My clothing was 
sackcloth .., I walked as [for] a friend 


Softy 


or brother.’’ The French Je vais donce- 
ment means precisely the same thing: 
(1 go softly,’ because I am indisposed, 
out of sorts, or in low spirits. 


Softy. A soft, simple person. 

“She were but a softy after all.’—Mrs, Gaskell : 
Sylvia's Lovers, chap. Xv. 

Soho! The cry made by huntsmen 
when they uncouple the dogs in hunting 
the hare. Also to pointers and setters 
when they make a point. Tally-ho! 
(q.v.) is the cry when a fox breaks 
cover. So! or see! is to call attention, 
and ho! is virtually ‘‘ hie after him,” 


“Now is the fox drevin to hole. Hooto hym! 
Hoo! Hoo! 
For and he acpe out he will you alle undo.” 
Excerpta Historica, p. 279. 


“Tf ye hounte at the hare, ye shall say, atte un- 
coupling, hors de couple, avaunt/ And after, 
three times, Sohow ! Sohow ! Sohow !"—A fifteenth- 
century translation of Relique Autique. 


“When a stag breaks covert the cry is ‘tayho!* 
... When a hare... ‘soho!’"—Herbert: Field 
Sports, vol. 111. appendix B, p. 313. 

‘ Of course ‘‘Ho!’’ is often used 
merely to call attention. Thus we say 
to one in advance, ‘‘ Ho! stop!”’ and 
‘“‘Ho! every one that thirsteth, come ye 
to the waters’ (Isaiah lv, 1). This use 
of the word isa contracted form of λαΐοο ! 
In the hunting-field ‘‘ So-ho ”’ is doubt- 
less a cry to encourage the dogs to follow 
up the quarry. 


Soi-disant (French). 
would-be. 


Soil. 70 take soil. A hunting term, 
signifying that the deer has taken to the 
water. Soil, in French, is the mire in 
which a wild boar wallows. (Danish, 
sol, mire; Swedish, δία, to wallow.) 

“ Rida went downe the dale to seeke the hinde, 

And founde her taking soyle within a flood.” 

Browne: Britannia’s Pustorals, i. 84. 

Soil the Milk before Using It. 
Yorkshire for ‘‘ Sile the milk, etc.’’—i.¢. 
strain it, or skimit. A sile is a sieve or 
strainer. 


“Take a handeful of sauge, and stampe it, and 
temper it with hate ale, and sythene syle it 
thorowe a hate clothe.’—MS. Lincoln, A i. 17 f 281, 


“ Drink the licoure siled thorgh a clothe.”—Ms, 
in Mr. Pettigrew's possession (fifteenth century). 

So’journ (2 syl.) is the Italian sog- 
giorno—i.e. sub-giorno; Latin, sub-diur- 
nus (for a day, temporally). 


Sol (Latin). The sun. 
“And when Dan Sol to slope his wheels began.” 
Thomson: Castle of Indolence, canto i. 
Sol. The term given by the ancient 
alchemists to gold. Silver was γα. 
Sol in the Edda was the daughter of 
Mundilfori, and sister of Ma’ni. She 
was so beautiful that at death she was 


Self - styled, 


1158 


Soldats 


placed in heaven to drive the sun- 
chariot. Two horses were yoked to it, 
named Arvakur and Alsvith (watchful 
and rapid). (Seandinavian mythology.) 
(See MANI.) 


Sol-fa. (See Do, ΒῈ, etc.) 


Solan Goose, The gannet. (French, 
Oie de Soland (ou) d’ Ecosse ; Icelandic, 
sula.) 


Sola’no. Ask no favour during the 
Solano (Spanish). Ask no favour during 
a time of trouble, panic, or adversity. 
The Solano of Spain is a south-east 
wind, extremely hot, and loaded with 
fine dust. It produces giddiness and 
inritation. Called the Sirocco in Italy. 


Solatium (4). A recompense; a 
sop; asolace, (Latin, so/atiwn.) 

“Tt may be that Mr. Elden will be persuaded to 
take one, by way of solatium for his defeat in 
Somorsetshire.”"—Newspaper paragraph, Decem- 
ber, 1885. 

Soldan or Sowdan. A corruption 
of sultan, meaning in medieval romance 
the Saracen king; but, with the usual 
inaccuracy of these writers, we have the 
Soldan of Egypt, the Soudan of Persia, 
the Sowdan of Babylon, etc., all repre- 
sented as accompanied by grim Saracens 
to torment Christians. 

The Soldan, meant for Felipe of Spain, 
who used all his power to bribe and 
seduce the subjects of Elizabeth. Queen 
Mercilla sent to negotiate a peace, but 
the ambassador sent was treated like a 
dog, referring to Felipe’s detention of 
the deputies sent by the States of Hol- 
land. Sir Artegal demands of the sol- 
dan the release of the damsel ‘‘ held as 
wrongful prisoner,’? and the soldan 
“swearing and banning most blasphe- 
mously,’’ mounts his ‘‘high chariot,’’ and 
prepares to maintain his cause. Prince 
Arthur encounters him ‘‘ on the green,’’ 
and after a severe combat uncovers his 
shield, at sight of which the soldan and 
all his followers take to flight. The 
“swearing and banning” refer to the 
excommunications thundered out against 
Elizabeth; the ‘‘high chariot” is the 
Spanish Arma’da; the “ green” is the 
sea; the ‘‘ uncovering of the shield” in- 
dicates that the Arma’da was put to 
flight, not by man’s might, but by the 
power of God. Flavit Jehovah et dis- 
sipa'ti sunt (God blew, and they were 
scattered). (Spenser: Faerie Queene, v. 


-) 

Soldats (Des). Money. Shakespeare, 
in The Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 2, 
has ‘‘ Money is a good soldier, sir, and 
will on.’”’ Doubtless the French use of 


Soldier 


1159 


Solyman 


the word is derived from the proverbial 
truth that ‘‘ Money is the sinews of 
war,’’ combined with a pun on the word 
solidus (the pay of a soldier). The Nor- 
man soud (i.e. sould) means ‘‘ wages ;”’ 
Swedish, Jesolda, to pay; Danish, besolde, 
to pay wages; the French soldat, our 
soldier, a hireling or mercenary, and the 
French sol or sov. 


Soldier originally meant a hireling 
or mercenary; one paid a solidus for 
military service ; but hireling and soldier 
convey now very different ideas, (Sze 
above.) 

To come the old soldier over one. To 
dictate peremptorily and profess superi- 
ority of knowledge and experience. 


Soldier’s Heart. A complaint com- 
mon in the English army, indicated by a 
weak voice and great feebleness of the 
chest, for which soldiers are discharged. 
It is said to be the result of the present 
system of drill, which enforces expan- 
sion of the chest by restraining free 
breathing. 

Soldiers’ Battles (Zhe).  Malpla- 
quet, 1709, and Inkermann, 1854, were 
both ‘‘ soldiers’ battles.”’ 


Soldiers of Fortune. Chevaliers 
de Vindustrie; men who live by their 
wits. Referring to those men in medi- 
zeval times who let themselves for hire 
into any army. 

“His father was a soldier of fortune,as I ama 
sailor.”"—Sir W. Scott: The Antiquary, chap. xx. 

Soldiering. A barrack term for fur- 
bishing up of accoutrements. 

“T got the screws last night, but I was busy 
soldiering till too late."—J. H. Ewing: Story of ὦ 
Short Life, p. 35. 

Solecism (3 syl.). Misapplication of 
words; an expression opposed to the 
laws of syntax; so called from the city 
of Soli, in Cilicia, where an Athenian 


colony settled, and forgot the purity of | 
| stice is June 21st; 


(Suidas.) 


Solemn. Habitual, customary. (Latin, 
sollemmnis, strictly speaking means ‘‘ once 
a year,” ‘‘annual,”’ solis-annus.) 


their native language. 


“Silent night with this her solemn bird” [i.e. 
the nightingale, the bird familiar to night].— 
Milton: Paradise Lost, v. 

~ Of course the usual meaning of 
“solemn ’’ is devout; but an annual 
festival, like Good Friday, etc., may be 
both devout and serious. The Latin 
for ‘‘it is usual,’ is solemne est, and to 
““solemnise’’ is to celebrate an annual 
custom. 


The Solemn Doctor, Henry Goethals 


was so called by the Sorbonne, 
1293.) 

Solemn League and Covenant, for the 
suppression of Popery and Prelacy, 
adopted by the Scotch Parliament in 
1638, and accepted by the English in 
1643. Charles II. swore to the Scotch 
that he would abide by it and therefore 
they crowned him in 1651 at Dunbar ; 
but at the Restoration he not only re- 
jected the covenant, but had it burnt 
by the common hangman, 


(1227- 


Soler. An upper room, a loft, a 
garret. (Latin, solariwn.) 
“ Hastily than went thai all, 
And soght him in the maydens hall, 
In chambers high, es noght at hide, 
And in solers on ilka side.” 
Ywaine and Gawin, 807. 
Solid Doctor. Richard Middleton, 
a cordelier; also called the Profound 
Doctor. (*-1304.) 


Solingen. The Sheffield of Germany, 
famous for swords and fencing-foils. 


Solomon. The English Solomon. 
James I., called by Sully ‘‘the wisest 
fool in Christendom.’ (1566, 1603-1625.) 

Henry VII. was so called for his wise 
policy in uniting the York and Lancaster 
factions. (1457, 1485-1509.) 

Solomon of France. Charles V., le 
Sage. (1837, 1364-1380.) 

St. Louis or Louis ΙΧ, 
1270.) 

Solomon’s Carpet. 
PET, PAVILION.) 


Solomon’s Ring. The rabbins say 
that Solomon wore a ring in which was 
set a chased stone that told the king 
everything he desired to know. 


Solon of Parnassus. So Voltaire 
called Boileau, in allusion to his Art 
of Poetry. (1636-1711.) 


Sol’stice (2 syl.). 


(1215, 1226- 


(See under Car- 


The summer sol- 
the winter solstice 
is December 22nd; so called because, 
on arriving at the corresponding points 
of the ecliptic, the sun is stopped and 
made to approach the equator again. 
(Latin, sol sisti¢ or stat, the sun stops.) 


Sol’yman, kine of the Turks (in 
Jerusalem Delivered), whose capital was 
Nice. Being driven from his kingdom, 
he fled to Egypt, and was there ap- 
pointed leader of the Arabs (bk. ix.). 
He and Argantes were by far the most 
doughty of the pagan knights. Solyman 
was slain by Rinaldo (bk, xx.), and 
Argantes by Tancred. 


Soma 


Soma. The moon, born from the eyes 
of Atri, son of Brahma; made the 
sovereign of plants and planets. Soma 
ran away with Tara (Star), wife of Vri- 
haspata, preceptor of the geds, and 
Buddha was their offspring. (Hindu 
mythology.) 

To drink the Soma. To become im- 
mortal. In the Vedic hymns the Soma 
is the moon-plant, the juice of which 
confers immortality, and exhilarates 
even the gods. It is said to be brought 


down from heaven by a falcon. (Scan- 
dinavian mythology.) 
Somagia (singular somagiuin). 


Horse-loads. Italian, soma, a burden; 
soma'ro, a beast of burden, an ass, (See 
SUMPTER. ) 


Sombre’ro. A Spanish hat with a 
very wide brim, 


Somerset. Anciently Swmnorsete or 


Sumorset—i.e, Suth-mor-set (south 
moor camp). 
Somerset or Somersault. A leap 


in which a person turns head over heels 
in the air and lights on his feet, (Latin, 
super saltus ; French, sowbresaut.) Some- 
times a person will turn twice or thrice 
in the air before he touches the ground. 
“ First that could make love faces, or could do 
The valter’s sombersalts.”’ 
Donne: Poems, p. 300. 
Somerset House occupies the site 
of a princely mansion built by Somerset 
the Protector, brother of Lady Jane 
Seymour, and uncle of Edward VI. At 
the death of Somerset on the scaffold 
it became the property of the Crown, 
and in the reign of James I. was called 
Denmark House in honour of Anne of 
Denmark, his queen. Old Somerset 
House was pulled down in the eighteenth 
century, and the present structure was 
erected by Sir William Chambers in 1776, 


Somoreen. (See ZAMORIN.) 


Son (or descendant of). Norman, 
Fitz- ; Gaelic, Mac; Welsh, Ap- (some- 
times contracted into P, as P-richard) ; 
Trish, 0’; Hebrew and Arabic, Ben-, 
all prefixes: English, -sor; Russian, 
-vitch or -witch, postfixes. 


Son of Be’lial. One of a wicked 
disposition ; a companion of the wicked. 
(See Judges xix. 22.) 

“Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial, they 
knew not the Lord.”’—1 Samuel ii. 12. 

Son of Dripping (4). A man cook, 

a turnspit. 


“Yet, son of dripping... let us halt ; 
Soft fires, the prover) tells us, make sweet malt.” 
Petey Pinday : The Lousiad, canto ii, 


1160 


Song 


Son of One Year. A child one year 
old; similarly a “‘son of sixty years,’ 
etc. (Exodus xii. 5.) 


Son of Perdition. 
(John xvii. 12.) 

Son of perdition. Antichrist, who not 
only draws others to perdition, but is 
himself devoted to destruction. (2 Thes- 
salonians ii. 3.) 


Son of the Morning. A traveller. 
An Oriental phrase, alluding to the 
custom of rising early in the morning to 
avoid the mid-day heat, when on one’s 
travels. 


Son of the Star [Bar Cochab]. A 
name assumed by Simon the Jew, in the 
reign of Hadrian, who gave himself out 
to be the ‘Star out of Jacob’? men- 
tioned in Numbers xxiv. 17. 


Sons of God. Angels, genuine 
Christians, or believers who are the sons 
of God by adoption. 


“As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they 
are the sons of God.”—Romans Viil. 14. 


Sons of God. When Judea was a 
theocracy the representative of God on 
earth was by the Jews called god ; hence 
angels, rulers, prophets, and priests were 
called gods. Moses as the messenger 
of Jehovah was ‘‘a god to Pharaoh”’ 
(Exodus vii. 1); magistrates generally 
were called gods ; thus it is said, ‘‘ Thou 
shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the 
ruler of thy people’’ (Exodus xxii, 28). 
By a still further extension, anyone 
who gave a message to another was 
his god, because he ‘‘ inspired him,’’ as 
Moses was a god to Aaron his spokes- 
man (Exodus iv. 16). Our Lord refers 
to this use of the word in John x. 34. 
(See also Genesis vi. 2, 4; Job i. 6; ii, 
1; Psalm Ixxxii. 6; Exodus iv. 22, 23; 
Hosea xi. 1.) 


Sons of the Band. Soldiers rank 
and file. (2 Chronicles xxv. 13.) 


Sons of the Mighty. Heroes. 
(Psalm xxix. 1.) 


Sons of the Prophets. Disciples or 
scholars belonging to the ‘‘ college of 
the prophets,’’ or under instruction for 
the ministry. In this sense we call the 
University where we were educated our 
‘Alma ma'ter.”’? (See 1 Kings xx. 39.) 


Sons of the Sorceress. Those who 
study and practise magic. (Isaiah lvii. 
3.) 

Song. Futher of modern French song. 
Panard; also called the ‘‘ La Fontaine 
of the Vaudeville.’”’ (1691-1765.) 


Judas Iscariot. 


Song of Degrees 


Song of Degrees. The fifteen 
Psalms, cxx. to cxxxiv. ; so called be- 
cause they are prophetic of the return 
or ‘‘ going up” from captivity. Some 
think there is a connection between 
these Psalms and the fifteen steps of 
the Temple porch. (Hzekiel xl. 22-26.) 
In the Revised Version called ‘‘ Song of 
Ascents.”’ 


Song of Roland, the renowned 
nephew of Charlemagne, slain in the 
pass of Roncesvalles. At the battle of 
Hastings, Taillefer advanced on horse- 
back before the invading army, and 
gave the signal for onset by singing this 
famous song. 

“ Taillefer, who sung well and loud, 
Came mounted on a charger proud ; 
Before the duke the minstrel sprang, 
And the Sony of Roland sang.” 
Brut of Wace (translated). 

Song of Songs. The Canticles, or 

**Solomon’s Song.”’ 


Sonna or Sunna. The Mishna or 
oral law of the Mahometans, Reland 
(De Relig. Mahom., p. 54) says these 
traditions were orally delivered by Ma- 
homet, and subsequently committed to 
writing. Albulphara’gius asserts that 
Ali, the son-in-law aud cousin of Ma- 
homet, was set aside because he refused 
to regard the oral traditions of the 
prophet of the same authority as the 
Koran. (Hist, Dynast., 182.) (Arabic, 
swind, tradition.) (See SUNNITES.) 


Sennam’bula (La). (Sce Amina, 
ELVINO.) 


Sonnet. Prince of the sonnet. 
Joachim du Bellay, a French sonneteer 
(1524-1560) ; but Petrarch better de- 
serves the title. (1834-1374.) 


Sop. A sop in the pan. A bonne- 
bouche, tit-bit, dainty morsel; a piece 
of bread soaked in the dripping of meat 
caught in a dripping-pan ; also a bribe. 
(Sve below.) 

To give a sop to Cerberus. To give a 
bribe, to quiet a troublesome customer. 
Cerberus is Pluto’s three-headed dog, 
stationed at the gates of the infernal 
regions. When persons died the Greeks 
and Romans used to put a cake in 
their hands as a sop to Cerberus, to allow 
them to pass without molestation. 


Soph. A student at Cambridge 15 
« Freshman for the first term, a Junior 
Soph for the second year, and a Senior 
Soph for the third year. The word 
Soph is a contraction of ‘‘sophister,”’ 
which is the Greek and Latin sophistés 
(a sophist). At one time these students 


1161 


Sorites 


had to maintain a given question in the 
schools by opposing the orthodox view 
of it. These opponencies are now limited 
to Law and Divinity degrees. 


Sophi or Safi [mystic], applied in 
Persia to ascetics generally, was given 
to Sheik Juneyd u Dien, grandfather of 
Shah Ismail, a Mahometan sectary or 
Shiite, who claimed descent, through 
Ali, from the twelve saints. 


So’phis. The twelfth dynasty of 
Persia, founded by Shah Ismail IL, 
grandson of Sheik Juneyd (1509). (Sze 
above.) 


Sophiia (St.), at Constantinople, is 
not dedicated to a saint named Sophia, 
but to the ‘‘ Logos,’’ or Second Person 
of the Trinity, called Hagia Sophia 
(Sacred Wisdom). 


Sophist, Sophistry, Sophism, So- 
phisticator, etc. These words have 
quite run from their legitimate meaning. 
Before the time of Pythagoras (B.c. 586- 
506) the sages of Greece were called 
sophists (wise men). Pythagoras out of 
modesty called himself a philosopher (a 
wisdom-lover). A century later Protag’- 
oras of Abde’ra resumed the title, aud 
a set of quibblers appeared in Athens 
who professed to answer any question 
on any subject, and took up the title 
discarded by the Wise Samian. From 
this moment sophos and all its family of 
words were applied to ‘‘ wisdom falsely 
so called,’”’ and philo-sophos to the 
‘*modest search after truth.” 


Sorkon‘ica. The public disputations 
sustained by candidates for membership 
of the Sorbonne. They began at ὃ a.m. 
and lasted till 7 p.m. 


Sorbonne. The institution of theo- 
Ingy, science, and literature in Paris 
founded by Robert de Sorbon, Canon of 
Cambrai, in 1252. In 1808 the buildings 
were given to the University, and since 
1821 have been the Académie universi- 
tare de Paris. 


Sorceress. (Sce CANIDIA, CIRCE, 
etc. etc.) 
Sordello. A poem by Robert 


Browning, showing the conflict of a 
minstrel about the best way of making 
his influence felt, whether personally or 
by the power of song. 


Sori'tes (Greek). A heaped-up or 
cumulative syllogism. The following 
will serve as an example :— 

All men who believe shall be saved, 


Sorrows of Werther 


1162 


All who are saved must be free from 
sin. 

All who are free from sin are innocent 
in the sight of God. 

All who are innocent in the sight of 
God are meet for heaven. 

All who are meet for heaven will be 
admitted into heaven. 

Therefore all who believe will be ad- 
mitted into heaven. 

The famous Sorites of Themistocles was: 
That his infant son commanded the 
whole world, proved thus :— 

My infant son rules his mother. 

His mother rules me. 

I rule the Athenians. 

The Athenians rule the Greeks, 

The Greeks rule Europe. 

And Europe rules the world. 


Sorrows of Werther. A novel by 
Goethe. The heroine is Charlotte. 


Sortes Bib'licz. Same as the Sortés 
Virgilia’nx (¢.v.), only the Bible was 
substituted for the works of the poet. 


Sortes Virgilia‘nz. Telling one’s 
fortune by consulting the ®ne’id of 
Virgil. You take up the book, open it 
at random, and the passage you touch at 
random with your finger is the oracular 
response. Seve’rus consulted the book, 
and read these words: ‘‘ Forget not thou, 
O Roman, to rule the people with royal 
sway.’’ Gordia’nus, who reigned only a 
few days, hit upon this verse: ‘‘ Fate 
only showed him on the earth, but 
suffered him not to tarry.”’? But, cer- 
tainly, the most curious instance is that 
given by Dr. Wellwood respecting King 
Charles I. and Lord Falkland while they 
were both at Oxford. Falkland, to 
amuse the king, proposed to try this 
kind of augury, and the king hit upon 
bk. iv. ver. 881-893, the gist of which 
passage is that ‘‘ evil wars would break 
out, and the king lose his life.”? Falk- 
land, to laugh the matter off, said he 
would show his Majesty how ridiculously 
the ‘‘lot’’ would foretell the next fate, 
and he lighted on book xi. ver. 2380-237, 
the lament of Evander for the untimely 
death of his son Pallas. King Charles, 
in 1643, mourned over his noble friend, 
who was shot through the body in the 
battle of Newbury. 


Sorts. Out of sorts. Not in good 
health and spirits. The French δέ) 
dérangé explains the metaphor. If cards 
are out of sorts they are deranged, and 
if a person is out of sorts the health or 
spirits are out of order. 

In printers’ language it means out of 


Soul Cakes 


some particular letter, in which case they 
substitute for a time another letter. 

To run upon sorts. In printing, said of 
work which requires an unusual number 
of certain letters, etc. ; as an index, which 
requires a disproportionate number of 
capitals. 


Sos'ia. The living double of another, 
as the brothers Antiph’olus and brothers 
Dromio in the Comedy of Errors, and 
the Corsican brothers in the drama so 
called. Sosia is a servant of Amphit’- 
ryon, in Plautus’s comedy so called. It 
is Mercury who assumes the double of 
Sosia, till Sosia doubts his own identity. 
Both Dryden and Moliére have adapted 
this play to the modern stage, but the 
Comedy of Errors is based on another 
drama ot the same author, called the 
Menachmi. (See AMPHITRYON.) 


Sotadics or Sotad'ic Verse. One 
that reads backwards and forwards the 
same, as ‘‘ llewd did I live, and evil I did 
dwell.’”? So called from Sot’ades, the 
inventor. These verses are also called 
palindromic. (See PatinDROME.) 

N.B. 11] is the old way of writing a 
capital L. 


Sothic Year. The Persian year 
consists of 363 days, so that a day is 
lost in four years, and the lost bits in 
the course of 1,460 years amount to a 
year. This period of 1,460 years is 
called a sothie period, and the reclaimed 
year made up of the bits is calledasothic 
year. (Greek, sothis, the dog-star, at 
whose rising it commences. ) 


Seoul. The Moslems fancy that it is 
necessary, When a man is bow-strung, to 
relax the rope a little before death oc- 
curs to let the soul escape. The Greeks 
and Romans seemed to think that the 
soul made its escape with life out of the 
death- wound. 

Soul. The Moslems say that the souls 
of the faithful assume the forms of snow- 
white birds, and nestle under the throne 
of Allah until the resurrection, 

Soul. Heraclitus held the soul to be 
a spark of the stellar essence: “‘ scintilla 
stellaris essentie.’ (Maerobius: Som- 
nium Scipioris, lib. i. cap. 14.) 

τ Vital spark of heavenly flame, 
Quit, oh ! quit this mortal frame.” 
Pope: The Dying Christian to his Soul. 

Soul, in Egyptian hieroglyphics, is re- 
presented by several emblems, as a basket 
of fire, a heron, a hawk with a human 
face, and a ram. 


Soul Cakes. Cakes given in Stafford- 
shire and Cheshire on All Souls’ Day, 


Soul and Spirit 


1163 


Spade 


to the poor who go a-souling, i.e. begging 
for soul-cakes. The words used are— 

τὴ Soul, soul, for soul-cake 

Pray you, good mistress, a soul cake.” 

Soul and Spirit. ἡ ψυχὴ (the soul) 
contains the passions and desires, which 
animals have in common with man. 
τὸ mvevua (the spirit) is the highest and 
distinctive part of man, In 1 Thess. 
Paul says, “1 pray God your whole 
spirit, soul, and body be_ preserved 
blameless unto the coming of our Lord 
Jesus Christ.’? (See also Heb. iv. 12; 
1 Cor. ii. 14 and 15; xv. 45, 46.) 


Soul of a Goose or Canon, The 
liver, called by the French ame. The 
renowned Strasbourg ‘‘patés de foie 
gras”? are made of these souls. 

“Draw out all the entrails ... but leave the 
soul.’—Drigg: English Dictionary of Cookery. 

Sound, a narrow sea, is the Anglo- 
Saxon sd; hence such words as Bo- 
marsund, ete. 


Sound Dues. A toll or_ tribute 
which was levied by the king of Denmark 
on all merchant vessels passing through 
the Sound. (Abolished 1857.) 


Sound as a Bell. Quitesound. A 
cracked bell is useless as a bell. 
“ Blinde Fortune did so happily contrive, 
That we,as sound as bells, did safe arive 
At Dover.” Taylor's Workes. ii. 22 (1620). 
Sound as a Roach. Quitesound. A 
pun upon vouch or roche the fish, and 
the French roche, a rock. 


Soundings. In wautical language, 
the depths of water in rivers, harbours, 
along shores, etc. 


Sour Grapes. Things despised be- 
cause they are beyond ourreach. Many 
men of low degree call titles and digni- 
ties ‘‘sour grapes;’’ and men of no 
parts turn up their noses at literary 
honours. The phrase is from sop’s 
fable called The Fox and the Grapes. 


Sour Grapeism. An assumed con- 
tempt or indifference to the unattainable. 
(See above.) 

“There, econony was always ‘elegant, and 
money-spending always * vulgar’ and ostentatious 
—a sort of sour grapeism, which made us very 
peaceful and satistied.”—Mvs. Gaskell: Cranford, 
chap. 1. 

South-Sea Scheme or Bubble. A 
stock-jobbing scheme devised by Sir 
John Blunt, a lawyer. The object of 
the company was to buy up the National 
Debt, and to be allowed the sole privi- 
lege of trading in the South Seas. The 
£100 shares soon realised ten times that 
sum, but the whole bubble burst in 1720 


and ruined thousands. (1710-1720.) The 
term is applied to any hollow scheme 
which has a splendid promise, but whose 
collapse will be sudden andruinous. (See 
MIssISSIPPI BUBBLE, ) 


Southampton Street (London). So 
called in compliment to the noble family 
of that title, allied to the Bedford 
family, the proprietors, 

Southampton’s Wise Sons. In the 
early part of the present century, the 
people of Southampton cut a ditch for 
barges betweer Southampton and Red- 
bridge; but as barges could go without 
payiug dues through the ‘‘ Southampton 
Water,’’ the ditch or canal was never 
used. This wise scheme was compared 
to that of the man who cut two holes 
through the wall—one for the great cat 
and the other for its kitten. 


Southern Gate of the Sun. The 
sign Capricornus or winter solstice. So 
called because it is the most southern 
limit of the sun’s course in the ecliptic. 


Seutras. The discourses of Buddha, 
(See TRIPITAKA.) 

Sovereign: A strangely misspelled 
word, the last syllable being mistaken 
for the word reign. It is the Latin 
supern (supreme over all), with the p 
changed to v. The French souverain 
is nearer the Latin word; Italian, sov- 
rano ; Spanish, soberano. 

Sovereign, a gold coin of the value of 
twenty shillings, was first issued by 
Henry VIII., and so called because he 
was represented on it in royal robes. 

Sow (to rhyme with ‘“‘‘now’’). You 
have got the wrong sow by the car. Sow 
is a large tub with two ears or handles ; 
it is used for pickling or sowsing. ‘The 
expression means, therefore, You have 
got hold of the wrong vessel, or, as the 
Latin phrase has it, ‘‘ Pro am’phora 
ur'ceus”? (You have brought me the 
little jug instead of the great gotch). 
French, seauz (a bucket). 

You have got the right sow by the car. 
You have hit upon the very thing. 

Sow. (See Pia Iron.) 

Spa or Spa Water. A general name 
for medical springs. So called from Spa, 
in Belgium, in the seventeenth century 
the most fashionable watering-place in 
Europe. 

Spade. Why not call a spade a spade ? 
Do not palliate sins by euphemisms. 


“ We calla nettle but a nettle, and the faults of 
fools but folly...—Shakespeare : Coriolanus, il. 1. 

“T haye learned to call wickedness by its own 
terms: a fig a fig, and a spade a spade,’—Jolin 
Knox, 


Spadish Language 


1164 


Speaking 


Spades in cards. A corruption of the 
Spanish spados, pikes or swords, called 
by the French pigues (pikes). 


Spadish Language (J). In plain 
English without euphuism; calling a 
spade a ‘‘ spade.” 

“Tad I attempted to express my opinions in 
full ‘Spadish’ language, 1 should have had to say 
mieny harder things.”—Fra Olla. 

Spa’fiel’'ds (London). So called from 
“«the London Spa,’’ the name of certain 
tea-gardens once celebrated for their 
“* spa- water.’ 


Spag’irie Art. Alchemy. 


Spag'iric Food. Cagliostro’s ‘elixir 
of immortal youth ”’ was so called from 
the Latin word spagir’icus (chemical). 
Hence, chemistry is termed the ‘‘ spag’- 
iric art,’’ and a chemist is a spag'irist. 

Spagnaletto [the little Spaniard]. 
José Ribera, the painter. Salva’tor Rosa 
and Guerci’no were two of his pupils. 
(1588-1656.) 

Spaie. A red deer of the third year. 


“The young male is called in the first yeere 
a cafe, in the second a broket, the third a spaie, 
the fourth a stegon or stag, the fifth a great stag, 
the sixth an hart, and so foorth unto his death,” 


—HMurvrison. 

Spain. (See 
CASTLE. ) 

Patron saint of Spain, St. James the 
Greater, who is said to have preached 
the Gospel in Spain, where what are 
called his ‘‘ relics’ are preserved. 


Span New. (Sce SPicK.) 


Spaniel. The Spanish dog, from es- 
parol, through the French. 


Spanish Blades. A sword is called 
a tole’do, from the great excellence of 
the Toletan steel. 


Chateau W@ Espagne. 


Spanish Brutus (716). Alfonzo 
Perez de Guzman (1258-1309). Lope de 
Vega has celebrated this hero. When 


besieged, he was threatened with the 
death of his son, who had been taken 
prisoner, unless he surrendered. Perez 
replied by throwing a dagger over the 
walls, and his son was put to death in 
his sight. 


Spanish Main. The circular bank 
of islands forming the northern and 
eastern boundaries of the Caribbe’an 
Sea, beginning from Mosquito, near the 
isthmus, and including Jamaica, St. 
Domingo, the Leeward Islands, and the 
Windward Islands, to the coast of Vene- 
zue’la in South America. 


“We turned conquerors, and invaded the main 
of Spain.”—Bacon, 


Spanish Money. Fair words and 
compliments. ‘he Spanish government 
is a model of dishonest dealings, the 
byword of the commercial world, yet 
no man is more irate than a Spaniard if 
any imputation is laid to his charge as 
inconsistent with the character of a man 
of honour. 


Spanish Worm. A nail concealed 
in a piece of wood, against which a 
carpenter jars his saw or chisel. So 
called from Spanish woods used in cabi- 
net-work, 


Spank (4). A slap to urge one to 
greater energy. (See below.) 


Spanker (4). A fore-and-aft sail set 
upon the mizen-mast of a three-masted 
vessel, and the jigger-mast of a four- 
masted vessel. ‘There is no spanker in a 
one- or two-masted vessel of any rig. 
A ‘‘spanker’’ used to be called a 
‘*driver.”? (Supplied by an old sailor 
of long service.) 


Spanking. Large, rapid, strong; as 
a ‘spanking big fellow,’’ a ‘‘ spanking 
speed,’’ a ‘‘ spanking breeze.’? A nauti- 
cal term. (See above.) 


Spare the Rod and Spoil the 
Child. Solomon (Proy. xii. 24) says: 
‘‘He that spareth the rod hateth his 
son ;’’ but Samuel Butler, in his Hudi- 
bras (pt. ii. canto 1, line 843), says : 

“ Love isa hoy, by poets styled, ' 
Then spars the rod, and spoil the child.” 

Sparkling Heat. Heat greater than 
white heat. 

“There be several degrees of heat ina smith’s 
forge, according to the purpose of their work : (1) 
a bloud-red heat; (2) a white flame heat; (3) a 
sparkling or welding heat, used to weld barrs or 
pieces of iron.’—Henunett: Ms. Lansd., 1033, f. 388. 

Spartan Dog. A blood-hound; a 
blood-thirsty man. 

“Ὁ Spartan dog, 
More fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea.” 
Shakespeare: Othello, vy. il. 

Spasmodiic School. A name ap- 
plied by Professor Aytoun to certain 
authors of the nineteenth century, whose 
writings are distinguished by spasmodic 
or forced conceits. Of this school the 
most noted are Carlyle, Bailey (author 
of Festus), Alexander Smith, Sydney 
Dobell, etc. 


Speaker’s Eye. 70 catch the Speaker's 
eye. The rule in the House of Commons 
is that the member whose rising to 
address the House is first observed by 
the Speaker is allowed precedence. 


Speaking. They are on speaking 
terms, ‘They just know each other, 


Speaking Heads 


1165 


Spectacles 


They are not on speaking terms. Though 
they know each other, they do not even 
salute each other in the street, or say 
** How dye do?”’ 

Speaking Heads and Sounding 

tones, 

(1) Jabel Nagus [mountain of the bell), 
in Arabia Petra, gives out sounds of 
varying strength whenever the sand 
slides down its sloping flanks. 

(2) The white dry sand of the beach 
in the isle of Eigg, of the Hebrides, 
produces, according to Hugh Miller, a 
musical sound when walked upon. 

(3) The statue of Memnon, in Egypt, 
utters musical sounds when the morning 
sun darts on it. 

(4) The speaking head of Orpheus, at 
Lesbos, is said to have predicted the 
bloody death which terminated the ex- 
pedition of Cyrus the Great into Scythia. 

(5) The head of Minos, brought by 
Odin to Scandinavia, is said to have ut- 
tered responses. 

(6) Gerbert, afterwards Pope Sylves- 
ter II., constructed a speaking head of 
brass (tenth century). 

(7) Albertus Magnus constructed an 
earthen head in the thirteenth century, 
which both spoke and moved. Thomas 
Aquinas broke it, whereupon the me- 
chanist exclaimed, ‘‘There goes the 
labour of thirty years!”’ 

(8) Alexander made a statue of Escu- 
la‘pios which spoke, but Lucian says the 
sounds were uttered by a man concealed, 
and conveyed by tubes to the statue. 

(9) The ‘‘ ear of Dionysius ’’ communi- 
cated to Dionysius, Tyrant of Syracuse, 
whatever was uttered by suspected sub- 
jects shut up in a state prison. This 
“ear”? was a large black opening in a 
rock, about fifty feet high, and the 
sound was communicated by a series of 
channels not unlike those of the human 
ear. 


Spear. Cairbar asks if Fingal comes 
in peace, to which Mor-annal replies: 
“Τὴ peace he comes not, king of Erin, I 
have seen his forward spear.”? If a 
stranger kept the point of his spear 
forward when he entered a strange land, 
it was a declaration of war; if he carried 
the spear on his shoulder with the point 
behind him, it was a token of friendship. 
(Ossian: Temora, i.) 

Achilles’ spear. Te'lephus, King of 
Mys'‘ia, in attempting to hinder the 
Greeks from marching through his coun- 
try against Troy, was wounded by 
Achilles’ spear, and was told by an 


only by the weapon that gave it; at 
the same time the Greeks were told that 
they would never reach Troy except by 
the aid of Te'lephus. So, when the 
Mysiian king repaired to Achilles’ tent, 
some of the rust of the spear was applied 
to the wound, and, in return for the 
cure which followed, Telephus directed 
the Greeks on their way to Troy. 
“ Telephus eterna consumptus tahé perisset 

Si non que noc’uit dextra tulisset opem."” Ovid. 

The spear of Te'lephus could both kill 
andcure. (Plutarch.) (See Achilles’ spear.) 

The heavy spear of Valence was οἵ 
great repute in the days of chivalry. 

Arthurs spear. Rone or Ron. 

To break a spear. To fight in a tour- 
nament. 


Spear-half. The male line. The 
female line was called by the Anglo- 
Saxons the Spindle-half (¢.v.). 


Spear of Ithuriel (7/e), the slightest 
touch of which exposed deceit. Thus 
when Ithuriel touched with his spear 
Satan squatting like a toad close to the 
ear of Eve, the ‘‘toad’’ instantly re- 
sumed the form of Satan. (Jlilton: 
Paradise Lost, bk. iv. 810-814.) 

“The acute pen of Lord Halles, which, like 
Tthuriel's spear, conjured so many shadows from 
Scottish history, dismissed among the rest those 
of Banquo and Fleance.”—Sir W. Scott. 

Special Pleading. Quibbling; 
making your own argument good by 
forcing certain words or phrases from 
their obvious and ordinary meaning. A 
pleading in law means a written state- 
ment of a cause pro and con., and 
“ special pleaders ’’ are persons who have 
been called to the bar, but do not speak 
as advocates. They advise on evidence, 
draw up affidavits, state the merits and 
demerits of a cause, and soon, After a 
time most special pleaders go to the bar, 
and many get advanced to the bench. 


Specie, Species, means simply what 
is visible. As things are distinguished 
by their visible forms, it has come to 
mean kind or class. As drugs and con- 


| diments at one time formed the most 


important articles of merchandise, they 
were called species—still retained in the 
French épices, and English spices. Again, 
as bank-notes represent money, money 
itself is called specie, the thing repre- 
sented. 

Spectacles, the device of Thackeray 
in drawings made by him. In Punch, 
vol. xx. No. 495, p. 8, is a butcher's 
boy chalking up ‘‘No Popery,’’ and 
the tray forms a pair of spectacles, 


oracle that the wound could be cured | showing it was designed by Thackeray. 


Spectre of the Brocken 


1166 


Spheres 


Spectre of the Brocken. The 
Brocken is the highest summit of the 
Hartz mountains in Hanover. This 
summit is at times enveloped in a thick 
mist, which reflects in a greatly magnified 
degree any form opposite at sunset. In 
one of De Quincey’s opium-dreams 
there is a powerful description of the 
Brocken spectre. 


Spectrum, Spectra, Spectre (Latin, 
specto, to behold), In optics a spectrum 
is the image of a sunbeam beheld on a 
screen, after refraction by one or more 
prisms. Spectra are the images of 
objects left on the eye after the objects 
themselves are removed from sight. A 
spectre is the apparition of a person no 
longer living or not bodily present. 


Specu'late means to look out of a 
watch-tower, to spy about (Latin). Meta- 
phorically, to look at a subject with the 
mind’s eye, to spy into it; im commerce, 
to purchase articles which your mind has 
speculated on, and has led you to expect 
will prove profitable. (Specula’'ris lapis 
is what we should now call window- 
glass, ) 


Speech. Speech was given to conceal 
or disguise men’s thoughts. Voltaire. 
But erroneously fathered on Talleyrand. 


Speed. A great punster, the serving- 
man of Valentine, one of the Two Gen- 
tlemen of Vero’na. lLaunce is the 
serving-man of Proteus, the other 
gentleman. (Shakespeare: Two Gentle- 
men of Verona.) 


Spell (4), in workman’s language, 
means a portion of time allotted to some 
particular work, and from which the 
men are relieved when the limited time 
expires. 

To spell is to relieve another at his 
work. 

Spell ho! An exclamation to signify 
that the allotted time has expired, and 
men are to be relieved by another set. 

A pretty good spell. A long bout or 
pull, as a ‘‘spell at the capstan,” ete. 
(The German spied means a performance 
as well asa play, game, or sport.) 


Spellbinders, Orators who hold their 
audience spellbound, The word came 
into use in America in the presidential 
election of 1888, 

“The Hon. Daniel Dougherty says: ‘The proud- 
est day of his life was when he beheld his name 
among the “spell-binders” who held the andi- 
ence in rapture with their eloquence,’ ’—Liberty 
Review, July 7th, 184, p. 13. 

Spelter. A commercial name for zinc. 
Also an abbreviation of spelter-solder. 


Spence. A salle a manger, the room 
in which meals are taken, a dining- 
room; also a store-room or pantry. 
(Dispensorium, Old French dispense, a 
buttery.) 

“The rest of the family held counsel in the 
spence,”"—Sir W. Scott: Lhe Monastery, chap. Xxx. 

Spencer. An outer coat witheut 
skirts ; so named from the Earl Spencer, 
who wore this dress. (George III.) 


Spendthrift. The Danish thrift is 
the noun of the word thrive (to increase 
or prosper). Shakespeare says, ‘‘I have 
a mind presages me such thrift’? (in- 
crease, profit). As our frugal ancestors 
found saving the best way to grow rich, 
they applied the word to frugality and 
careful management. A spendthrift is 
one who spends the thrift or saving of 
his father, or, as Old Adam says, the 
‘“‘thrifty hire Lsaved.”’? (ds You Like It.) 


Spenser (Zdmund), called by Milton 
‘‘the sage and serious Spenser.’? Ben 
Jonson, in a letter to Drummond, states 
that the poet ‘‘ died for lake of bread.”’ 
(1443-1599.) 


Spenserian Metre (Zhe). The metre 
in which Spenser’s Laerie Queene is 
written. It is a stanza of nine iambic 
lines, all of ten syllables except the last, 
which is an Alexandrine. Only three 
different rhymes are admitted into a 
stanza, and these rhymes are thus dis- 
posed: Lines 1 and 3 rhyme; lines 2, 4, 
5, 7 rhyme; lines 6, 8, 9 rhyme ; thus :-— 


LPR a Sages ΧΕΙ ΘΕ ΕΣ, ride 

7 Ce ee μοῦ δε low 

I WE FS Se side 

BO Pave ss a= soa throw 
δ; Faye oS See snow 
8... fe - τ τ = ee had 
| ee eee ΞΣΞ blow 

SF tees a Sat ae lad 


sad (an alex- 
andrine). 
Spent. Weary. A hunting term. A 
deer is said to be spent when it stretches. 
out its neck, and is at the point of death. 
In sea language, a broken mast is said to 
be ‘‘spent.”’ 


Spheres. The music or harmony of 
the spheres. Pythag’oras, having ascer- 
tained that the pitch of notes depends 
on the rapidity of vibrations, and also 
that the planets move at different rates 
of motion, concluded that. the sounds 
made by their motion must vary accord- 
ing to their different rates of motion. 
As all things in nature are harmoniously. 
made, the different sounds must har- 
monise, and the combination he called 
the ‘‘ harmony of the spheres.”? Kepler 
has a treatise on the subject. 


Sphinx 


Sphinx (The Egyptian). Half a 
woman and half a lion, said to sym- 
bolise the ‘‘ rising of the Nile while the 
sunisin Leo and Virgo.’’ This ‘‘saying”’ 
must be taken for what it is werth, 

Sphinx. Lord Bacon’s ingenious reso- 
lution of this fable is a fair specimen 
of what some persons call ‘‘ spiritualis- 
ing’ incidents and parables. He says 
that the whole represents ‘‘ science,”’ 
which is regarded by the ignorant 
as ‘‘a monster.’’? As the figure of the 
sphinx is heterogeneous, so the sub- 
jects of science ‘‘are very various.”’ 
‘The female face ‘‘ denotes volubility of 
speech ;’’ her wings show that ‘‘ know- 
ledge like light is rapidly diffused ;’’ her 
hooked talons remind us of ‘‘the ar- 
guments of science which enter the mind 
and lay hold of it.’? She is placed on 
a crag overlooking the city, for ‘‘all 
science is placed on an eminence which 
is hard to climb.’’ If the riddles of the 
sphinx brought disaster, so the riddles 
of science ‘perplex and harass the 
mind.” 

You are a perfect sphinx—You speak 
in riddles. ou are nothing better than 
a sphinz—You speak so obscurely that I 
cannot understand you. The sphinx was 
a sea-monster that proposed a riddle to 
the Thebans, and murdered all who 
could not guess it. Cdipus solved it, 
and the sphinx put herself to death. 
The riddle was this— 
© What goes on four feet, on two feet, and three, 

But the more feet it goes on the weaker it be?” 

Spice. A small admixturo, a flavour- 
ing ; as, ‘‘ He is all very well, but there’s 
a spice of conceit about him.’’ Probably 
the French espéece. 

“God's bounté is all pure, without ony espece 
of evyll.’—Caxton: Mirrour of the World, 1. 

Spick and Span New. Quite and 
entirely new. A spice is a spike or nail, 
and a span is a chip. So that a spick 
and span new ship is one in which every 
nail and chip is new. Halliwell men- 
tions ‘‘span new.’’ According to Dr. 
Johnson, the phrase was first applied to 
cloth just taken off tho spannans or 
stretchers, (Dutch, spiispelderniew.) 


Spider. 

Bruce and the spider. In the spring 
of 1305, Robert Bruce was crowned at 
Scone king of Scotland, but, being at- 
tacked by the English, retreated first to 
the wilds of Athole, and then to the 
little island of Rathlin, off the north 
coast of Ireland, and all supposed him 
to be dead. While lying perdu in this 
island, he one day noticed a spider near 


1167 


Spider 


his bed try six times to fix its web on a 
beam in the ceiling. ‘‘ Now shall this 
spider (said Bruce) teach me what I am 
to do, for I also have failed six times.”’ 
The spider made a seventh effort and 
succeeded; whereupon Bruce left the 
island (in the spring of 1307), collect- 
ing together 300 followers, landed at 
Carrick, and at midnight surprised the 
English garrison in Turnberry Castle ; 
he next overthrew the Earl of Glouces- 
ter, and in two years made _ himself 
master of well nigh all Scotland, which 
Edward III. declared in 1328 to be an 
independent kingdom. Sir Walter Scott 
tells us, in his Zales of a Grandfather 
(p. 26, col. 2), that in remembrance of this 
incident, it has always been deemed a 
foul crime in Scotland for any of the 
name of Bruce to injure a spider, 

“T will grant you, my father, that this valiant 
burgess of Perth is one of the best-hearted men 
that draws breath... He would be ‘as loth, in 
wantonness, to kill a spider, as if he were a kins- 
man to King Robert of happy memory.’—Sir 
Walter Scott: Fair Maid of Perth, ch. il. 

Frederick the Great and the spider. 
While Frederick II. was at Sans Souci, 
he one day went into his ante-room, as 
usual, to drink a cup of chocolate, but 
set his cup down to fetch his hand- 
kerchief from his bedroom. On his 
return he found a great spider had fallen 
from the ceiling into his cup. He called 
for fresh chocolate, and next moment 
heard the report of a pistol. The cook 
had been suborned to poison the choco- 
late, and, supposing his treachery had 
been found out, shot himself. On the 
ceiling of the room in Sans Souci a spider 
has been painted (according to tradition) 
in remembrance of this story. 

Spider. When Mahomet fled from 
Mecca he hid in a certain cave, and the 
Koreishites were close upon him, Sud- 
denly an acacia in full leaf sprang up at 
the mouth of the cave, a wood-pigeon 
had its nest in the branches, and a spider 
had woven its net between the tree and 
the cave. When the Koreishites saw 
this, they felt persuaded that no one 
could have recently passed that way, and 
went on, 

Spider anciently supposed to envenom 
everything it touched. In the examina- 
tion into the murder of Sir Thomas 
Overbury, one of the witnesses deposed 
‘that the countess wished him to get 
the strongest poison that he could. . .” 
Accordingly he brought seven great 
spiders. ἢ 

“There may be in the cup 
A spider steeped, and one may drink, depart, 


And yet partake no venom.” : 
Shakespeare: Winter's Tale, ii. 1. 


Spidireen 


1168 


Spirited Away 


Spider. According to old wives’ fable, 
fever may be cured by wearing a spider 
in a nutshell round the neck. 

“Cured by wearing a spider hung round one’s neck 
in a nutshell.” Longfellow: Evangeline. 

Spiders will never set their webs on a 
cedar roof. (Caughey : Letters, 1848.) 

Spiders spin only on dark days. 

“ The subtle spider never spins, 
But on dark days, his slimy gins.” 
S. Butler : On a Nonconformist, iv. 

Spider. The shoal called the Sham- 
bles at the entrance of Portland Roads 
was very dangerous before the break- 
water was constructed. According to 
legend, at the bottom of the gigantic 
shaft are the wrecks of ships seized and 
sunk by the huge spider Avaken, called 
also the fish-mountain, 


Spid'ireen or Spidereen. The ano- 
nyma of ships. Τῇ ἃ sailor is asked what 
ship he belongs to, and does not choose 
to tell, he willsay, ‘‘ The spidireen frigate 
with nine decks.’’ Officers who will not 
tell their quarters, give B.K.S. as their 
address. (See B.K.S.) 


Spigot. Spare at the spigot and spill 
at the bung. To be parsimonious in 
tifles and wastefulin great matters, like 
a man who stops his beer-tub at the 
vent-hole and leaves it running at the 
bung-hole. 


Spilt Milk. (See Cry.) 


Spindle-half. The female line. A 
Saxon term. The spindle was the pin 
on which the thread was wound from 
thespinning-wheel. (See SPEAR-HALF. ) 


Spinning Jenny. Jennie is a di- 
minutive and corruption of engine 
(ginie). A little engine invented by 
James Hargreaves, a Lancashire weaver, 
in 1767. It is usually said that he so 
called it after his wife and daughter ; 
but the name of his wife was Elizabeth, 
and he never had a daughter. 


Spino’za’s System. The ‘system 
of Spinoza”’ is that matter is eternal, 
and that the universe is God. 


Spinster. An unmarried woman. 

The fleece which was brought home 
by the Anglo-Saxons in summer, was 
spun into clothing by the female part of 
each family during the winter. King 
Edward the Elder commanded his 
daughters to be instructed in the use of 
the distaff. Alfred the Great, in his 
will, calls the female part of his family 
the spindle side ; and it was a regularly 
received axiom with our frugal fore- 
fathers, that no young woman was fit to 


be a wife till she had spun for herself a 
set of body, table, and bed linen. Hence 
the maiden was termed a spinner or 
spinster, and the married woman a wife 
or ‘‘one who has been ἃ spinner.’’ 
(Anglo-Saxon, wif, from the verb wyfan 
or wefan, to weave.) 

The armorial bearings of women 
are not painted on a shicld, like those 
of men, but on a spindle (called a 
“lozenge’’). Among the Romans the 
bride carried a distaff, and Homer tells 
us that Kryseis was to spin and share 
the king’s bed. 


Spirit. 170 give up the spirit. To 
die. At death the “spirit is given back 
to Him who gave it.”’ 


Spirit-writing. Pneumatology. Al- 
leged visible writing by spirits. 


Spirits. Inflammable liquors ob- 
tained by distillation. This is connected 
with the ancient notion of bottle-imps 
(q.v.), Whence these liquors were largely 
used in the black arts. 

Spirits. There are four spirits and 
seven bodies in alchemy. The spirits 
are quicksilver, orpiment, sal-ammoniac, 
and brimstone. (See SEVEN ΒΟΡΙΕΒ.) 

“ The first spirit quyksilver called is: 

The secound orpiment: the thrid I wis 
Sal armoni’ac ; and the ferth bremstoon.” 

Chaucer : Prol. of the Chanounes Yemanes Tale. 

Spirits. There were formerly said to 
be three in animal bodies :— 

(1) The animal spirits, seated in the 
brain ; they perform through the nerves 
all the actions of sense and motion. 

(2) The vital spirits, seated in the 
heart, on which depend the motion of 
the blood and animal heat. 

(3) The natural spirits, seated in the 
liver, on which depend the temper and 
“spirit of mind.” 


Spirits (Elemental). There are four 
sorts of elemental spirits, which rule re- 
spectively over the four elements, The 


jire spirits are SALAMANDERS ; the water 


spirits UNDINES (2 syl.); the air spirits 
ΞΎΓΡΗΒ ; and the earth spirits GNOMES 
(1 syl.). 

Spirited Away. Kidnapped; al- 
lured. Kidnappers who beguiled or- 
phans, apprentices, and others on board 
ship in order to sell them to planters in 
Barbadoes and Virginia, were called 
“spirits.” Mr. Doyle (English in 
America, p. 512) finds the word used in 
this sense in official papers as early as 
1657. (Notes and Queries, 17th Decem- 
ber, 1892.) 


Spiritual Mother 


1169 


Spoon 


Spiritual Mother. So Joanna 
Southcott is addressed by her disciples. 
(1750-1814.) 

Spiritualism or Spiritism. A sys- 
tem which started up in America in 
1848. It professes that certain living 
persons have the power of holding com- 
munion with the ‘‘ spirits of the dead.”’ 
Nineteenth century spiritualism pro- 
bably owes its origin to Andrew Jack- 
son Davis, ‘‘ the seer of Poughkeepsie.”’ 

SpirtorSpurté. A sudden convulsive 
effort (Swedish, syruta ; Danish, sprude ; 
Icelandic, spretta, to start; our spout, 
to throw up water in a jet). 


Spitalfields (London). A spital isa 
charitable foundation for the care of 
the poor, and these were the fields of 
the almshouse founded in 1197 by Walter 
Brune and his wife Rosia. 


Spite of His Teeth (Jv). In spite 
of opposition; though you snarl and 
show your teeth like an angry dog. 

Spitfire. An irascible person, whose 
angry words are like fire spit from the 
mouth of a fire-eater. 


Spitting for Luck. Boys often spit 
ou a piece of money given to them for 
luck. Boxers spit upon their hands for 
luck. Fishwomen not unfrequently spit 
upon their hansel (1.6, the first money 
they take) for luck. Spitting was a 
charm against fascination among the 
ancient Greeks and Romans. Pliny says 
it averted witchcraft, and availed in giv- 
ing to an enemy a shrewder blow. 

“ Thrice on my breast I spit to guard me safe 

From fascinating charms.’ Theocritos. 

Spittle or Spital. An hospital. 

“ A spittle or hospital] for poore folks diseased ; 
a spittle, hospitall, or lazarhouse for lepers.’— 
Buret: Alveaire (1580). 

Spittle Sermons. Sermons preached 
formerly at the Spittle in a pulpit erected 
expressly for the purpose. Subsequently 
they were preached at Christchurch, 
City, on Easter Monday and Tuesday. 
Ben Jonson alludes to them in his 
Under woods, ap. Gifford, viii. 414. 


Splay is a contraction of display (to 
unfold ; Latin, dis-plico). A splay win- 
dow is one in a V-shape, the external 
opening being very wide, to admit as 
much light as possible, but the inner 
opening being very small. A splay-foot 
is a foot displayed or turned outward. 
A splay-mouth is a wide mouth, like 
that of a clown. 


Spleen was once believed to be the 
seat of ill-humour and melancholy. The 


74 


herb spleenwort was supposed to remove 
these splenic disorders. 

Splendid Shilling. 
poem by John Philips. (1676-1708.) 


Splice. To marry. Very strangely, 
ΚΕ splice’? means to split or divide. The 
way it came to signify wnite is this: 
Ropes’ ends are first untwisted before 
the strands are interwoven. Joining two 
ropes together by interweaving their 
strands is ‘‘splicing’’ them. Splicing 
wood is joining two boards together, 
the term being borrowed from the 
sailor. (German, sp/eissen, to split.) 


Splice the Main Brace. (Sce MAIN 
BRACE, ) 

To get spliced is to get married or tied 
together as one. 


Spoke (verb). When members of the 
House of Commons and other debaters 
call out Spoke, they mean that the 
person who gets up to address the as- 
sembly has spoken already, and cannot 
speak again except in explanation of 
something imperfectly understood. 

Spoke (noun). J have put my spoke 
into his wheel. Ihave shut him up. The 
allusion is to the pin or spoke used to 
lock wheels in machinery. 

Dowt put your spoke into my wheel. 
Don’t interfere with my business ; Let 
my wheel turn, and don’t you put a 


A mock-heroic 


| pin in to stop it or interrupt its move- 


ment. The Dutch have “ Ken spaak in 
Cwiel stecken,” to thwart a purpose. 

When solid wheels were used, the 
driver was provided with a pin or spoke, 
which he thrust into one of the three 
holes made to receive it, to skid the cart 
when it went down-hill. The carts used 
by railway navvies, and tram-waggons 
used in collieries, still have a wheel 
ἐξ spoked ” in order to skid it. 

Sponge. Throw up the sponge. Give 
up; confess oneself beaten. The meta- 
phor is from boxing matches. 

“We must stand up to our tight now. or throw 
up the sponge. There’s no two ways about the 
inatter.”"—Buldrewood: Robbery under Arms, chap. 
ΧΧΧΙ. 

“We hear that the followers of the Arab chief 
have thrown up the sponge.”—Newspuper pura- 
graph, April 2nd, 1888. 

Spontaneous Combustion. Taking 
fire without the intervention of applied 
heat. Greasy rags heaped together, hay 
stacked in a damp state, coal-dust in 
coal mines, cinders and ashes in dust 
bins, are said to be lable to spontaneous 
combustion. 


Spoon. (See APOSTLE-SPooNs.) 
He hath need of a long spoon that 


Spoon 


1170 


Spread-eagle 


eateth with the devil. Shakespeare al- 
ludes to this proverb in the Comedy of 
Errors, iv. 3; and again in the Zempest, 
ii. 2, where Stephano says: ‘‘ Mercy! 
mercy ! this is a devil . . . I will leave 
him, I have no long spoon.”’ 


“ Therefor behoveth bim a ful long spoon 
That schal ete with a feend.” 
Chaucer: The Squieres Tale, 10,916. 


Spoen (4). One who is spoony, or 
sillily love-sick on a girl. 

“He was awful spoons at the time.”—Truth 
(Queer Story), March 25th, 1886. 

Spooning, in rowing, is dipping the 
oars so little into the water as merely to 
skim the surface. The resistance being 
very small, much water is thrown up 
and more disturbed. 


Spoony. JLovingly soft. A sea- 
phrase. When a ship under sail in a 
sea-storm cannot bear it, but is obliged 
to put right before the wind, she is said 
to ‘‘ spoon ;’’ so a young man under sail 
in the sea of courtship ‘‘ spoons ”’? when 
he cannot bear it, but is obliged to put 
right before the gale of his lady’s ‘‘ eye- 
brow.” 


Sporran (Gaelic). The heavy pouch 
worn in front of the philibeg of a High- 
landeyr’s kilt. 


Sport a Door or Oak. To keep an 
outer door shut. In the Universities the 
College rooms have two doors, an outer 
and an inner one. ‘The outer door is 
called the sporting door, and is opened 
with a key. When shut it is to give 
notice to visitors that the person who 
occupies the rooms is not at home, 
or is not to be disturbed. The word 
sport means to exhibit to the public, 
as, “to sport a new equipage,’”’ ‘‘ to 
sport a new tile [hat],’’ ete. ; whence to 
have a new thing, as ‘‘ to sport an gro’ - 
tat [sick-leave] ;’? or merely to show to 
the public, as ‘‘sport a door or oak,’’ 
The word is a contraction of support. 
(French, sepporter, to sustain, carry ; 
Latin, sepporto.) 


Sporting Seasons in England. 


pee marked thus (*) are fixed by Act of Par- 
jament. 

Black Game* from August 20th to December 
10th ; but in Somerset. Devon, and New Forest, 
from September Ist to December 10th. 

Blackcock, August 20th to December 10th. 

Buck hunting, August 20th to September 17th. 

Bustard,* September lst to March Ist. 

Red Deer hunted, August 20th to September 30th. 

Male Deer (1reland),* October 20th to June 10th. 

Fallow Deer (Ireland), June 20th to Michaelmas. 

Fels, (about) April 20th to October 28th. 

Fox hunting, (about) October to Lady Day. ; 

_For Cubs, August 1st to the first Monday in 
November. 

Grouse shooting,* August 12th to December 10th. 

Hares, March 12th to August 12th. 

Hind, hunted in October and again between 
April loth and May 20th, - io 


Moor Game (Ireland),* August 20th to Decem- 
ber 10th. 
Ovster season, August 5th to May. 
: ἘΣ ΔΩ͂Ρ shooting,* September Ist to February 
st. 
Pheasant shooting,* October Ist to February Ist, 
Ptarmiaan, August 12th to December loth. 
Quail, Ausust 12th to January loth. 2 
Rabbits, hetween October and March. Rabbits, 
as vermin, are shot at any time. 
Salnon,” February Ist to September 1st. 
: Salmon, rod fishing,* November Ist to Septem- 
er Ist. 

Trout fishing, May Ist to September 10th. 

theif in the Thames, April Ist to September 
10th. 

Woodcocks, (about) November to January. 

For Ireland and Scotland there are spe- 
cial game-laws. (See Time oF GRACE.) 

N.B. Game in England: hare, pheasant, par- 
tridge, grouse, and moor-fowl ; in Scotlaud, same 
as England, with the addition of ptarmigan ; in 
Keland, sune as England, with the addition of 
deer, black-game, landrail, quail, and bustard, 

Spouse (Spouze, 1 sy]l.) means one 
whom sponsors have answered for. In 
Rome, before marriage, the friends of 
the parties about to be married met at 
the house of the woman’s father to 
settle the marriage contract. This con- 
tract was called sponsa'lia (espousals) ; 
the man and woman were spouses. The 
contracting parties were each asked, ‘‘4n 
spondes” (Do you agree’), and replied 
ἐν Spyondeo”’ (I agree). 

Spouse of Jesus. ‘Our seraphie mo- 
ther, the holy Tere’sa,”’ born at Av’ila in 
1515, is so called in the Roman Catholic 
Church, 


Spout. Up the spout. At the pawn- 
broker’s. In allusion to the ‘‘ spout ’’ up 
which brokers send the articles ticketed. 
When redeemed they return down the 
spout—7.7. from the store-room to the 
shop. 

“ As for spoons,forks, and jewellery, they are not 
taken so readily to the smelting-pot, but to well- 
known places where there is a pipe [spout] which 
your lordships may have seen In a_pawnbroker's 
shop. The thief taps, the pipe is lifted up, and in 
the course of a minute a hand comes out, covered 
with a glove, takes up the article, and gives out 
the money for it."—Lord Shaftesbury: The Times, 
March Ist, 1869. 

Sprat. To bait with a sprat to catch a 
mackerel. To give a small thing under 
the hope of getting something much 
more valuable. The French say, ‘‘ A pea 
for a bean.” (Sce GARVIES.) 


Spread-eagle (70). To fly away 
like a spread-eagle; to beat. (Sporting 
term.) 

“You'll spread-eagle all the [other] cattle in a 
brace of shakes.’—Ouida ; Under Two Flags, chap. 
1x. 

Spread-eagle Oratory. ‘‘ A com- 
pound of exaggeration, effrontery, bom- 
bast, and extravagance, mixed with 
metaphors, platitudes, threats, and ir- 
reverent appeals flung at the Almighty.” 


Spring Gardens 


1171 


Squalls 


(North American Review, November, 
1858.) 


Spring Gardens (London). Socalled 
from a playfully contrived waterwork, 
which, on being unguardedly pressed by 
the foot, sprinkled the bystanders with 
water. (James I., etc.) 


Spring Tide. The tide that springs 
or leaps or swells up. These full tides 
occur at the new and full moon, when 
the attraction of both sun and moon act 
in a direct line, as thus— 


6 O x or x @ @ 


Sprout-kele. The Saxon name for 
February. Kele is colewort, the great 
pot-wort of the ancient Saxons; the 
broth made thereof was also called Kele. 
This important pottage herb begins to 
sprout in February. (Verstegan.) 


Spruce. Smart, dandified. Hall 
tells us it is a contraction of Prussian- 
like, ἃ 7a Prusse, and gives the subjoined 
quotation :— 


“ After them came Sir Edward Hayward, and 
with him Sir Thomas Parre,in doublets of crim- 
son velvet, faced on the breast with chains of 
silver, and over that short cloaks of cvimson 
satin, and on their heads hats after dancers’ 
fashion, with feathers in them. They were ap- 
parelled after the fashion of Prussia or Spruce.” 


πῇ In confirmation of this it may be mentioned 
that “Spruce leather” is certainly a corruption 
of Prussian leather ; Spruce-heer is heer made 
from the Spruce or Prussian fir, and Danzig, in 
Prussia, is famous for the beverage. 


Spun (70 de). 
ruined, 
“Tshall be spun. There isa voice within 
Which tells me plainly 1am all undone ; 
For though | toil not, neither do I spin, 
I shall be spun.” Robert Murray (1863). 


Exhausted, undone, 


Spun Out. As “the tale was spun 
out’’—that is, prolonged to ἃ dispro- 
portionate length. It is a Latin phrase, 
and the allusion is to the operation of 
spinning and weaving. Cicero says, 
κε Tenu'o deducta poemata filo’’—that is, 
poems spun out to a fine thread. 


Spunging House. A victualling 
house where persons arrested for debt 
are kept for twenty-four hours, before 
lodging them in prison. The houses so 
used are generally kept by a bailiff, and 
the person lodged is spunged of all his 
money before he leaves. 


Spur Money. Money given to re- 
deem a pair of spurs. Gifford says, in 
the time of Ben Jonson, in consequence 
of the interruptions to divine service 
occasioned by the ringing of the spurs 
worn, 2 small fine was imposed on those 
whe entered church in spurs. Tke 


| 


enforcement of this fine was committed 
to the beadles and chorister-boys. 


Spurs. Lipon spurs. The best spurs 
were made at Ripon, in Yorkshire. 


“Tf my spurs he not right Rippon.” ἢ 
Ben Jonson: Staple of News. 


The Battle of Spwrs, The battle of 
Guinnegate, fought in 1513, between 
Henry VIII. and the Due de Longue- 
ville. So called because the French used 
their spurs in flight more than their 
swords in fight. 

The Battle of the Spurs. The battle of 
Courtrai, in 1302. So called because the 
victorious Flemings gathered from the 
field more than 700 gilt spurs, worn by 
French nobles slain in the fight. 

To dish up the spurs. In Scotland, 
during the times of the Border feuds, 
when any of the great families had come 
to the end of their provisions the lady 
of the house sent up a pair of spurs for 
the last course, to intimate that it was 
time to put spurs to the horses and 
make a raid upon England for more 
cattle. 

_“ He dishes up the spurs in his helpless address, 
like one of the old Border chiefs with an empty 
larder.”—The Daily Telegraph. 

To win his spurs. To gain therank of 
knighthood. When a man was knighted, 
the person who dubbed him presented 
him with a pair of gilt spurs. 


Spy. Vidocq, the spy in the French 
Revolution, was a short man, vivacious, 
vain, and talkative. He spoke of his 
feats with real enthusiasm and gusto. 


Spy (of Vanity Iuir). Leslie Ward, 
successor of ‘‘Ape’”’ (Pellegrini, the 
caricaturist), 


Spy Wednesday. The Wednesday 
before Good Friday, when Judas bar- 
gained to become the spy of the Jewish 
Sanhedrim, (Matt. xxvi. 3-5, 14-16.) 


_Squab Pie. Pie made of squabs— 
i.c. young pigeons; also a pie made of 
mutton, apples, and cnions, 

“ cara squab-pie, and Devon white-pot 

rings, 
And Leicester beans and hacon, fit for kings.” 
King: Art of Cookery. 

Squad. The awkward squad consists 
of recruits not yet fitted to take their 
places in the regimental! line, Squad is 
a mere contraction of squadron. 

Saualls. Look out for squalls. Expect 
to meet with difficulties. A nautical 
term. 


“J this is the case, let the ministry look out 
for sqnalls.”—-Wewspaper paragraph, July th, 1595. 


Square 


Square. To put oneself in the atti- 
tude of boxing, to quarrel. (Welsh, 
ewer’ —i.e. cweryl, cwerylu, to quarrel.) 

“ Are you such fools 
To square for this?” ἐξ 
Shakespeare: Titus Andronicus, li. 1. 

Square the Circle. To attempt an 
impossibility. The allusion is to the 
mathematical question whether a circle 
can be made which contains precisely 
the same area as a square. The diffi- 
culty is to find the precise ratio between 
the diameter and the circumference. 
Popularly it is 3°14159 ... . the next 
decimals would be 26537, but the num- 
bers would go on ad infinitum. 


Squash. A sort of pumpkin, called 
oy the American Indians ascutaquash. 


Squib (4). A political joke, printed 
and circulated at election times against 
a candidate, with intent of bringing him 
into ridicule, and influencing votes. 

“ Parodies, lampoons, rightly named squihs, flre 
and brimstone, ending in smoke, with a villainous 
sinell of saltpetre.”"—Dean Hole: Rose-garden and 
Pulpit. 

Squint-eyed [Guwerci'no]. Gian 
Francesco Barbie'ri, the great painter. 
(1590-1666.) 

Squintife’go. Squinting. 

“The squintifego maid 
Of Isis awe thee, lest the gods for sin β 
Should with a swelling dropsy stuff thy skin.” 
Dryden: Fiftir Satire of Juvenal. 

Squire of Dames. Any cavalier 
who is devoted to ladies. Spenser, in 
his Faérie Queene (bk. 111. chap, vii.) in- 
troduces the ‘‘squire,’”’ and records his 
adventure. 


Stabat Ma'ter. The celebrated 
Latin hymn on the Crucifixion, which 
forms a part of the service during 
Passion week, in the Roman Catholic 
Church. It was composed by Jacopone, 
a Franciscan of the thirteenth century, 
and has been set to music by Pergole’se, 
also by Rossi‘ni. 
~ In the catalogue of the Library of 
Burgundy, No.13,993, is the following :— 

“Ttem, fol. 77. Benedictus Papa XIT. composuit 

bane orationem: ‘Stabat Mater dolorosa iuxta 
crucein, ete., concessitque cuilihbet confesso peeni- 
tenti dicenti eam pro qualibet vice 30 dies indul- 
gentium.” (Sixteenth century.) 
: Stable-door. Locking the stable-door 
after the horse [or steed| is stolen. 
Taking precautions after the mischief is 
done. 

Stable Keys, as those of cow-houses, 
have frequently a perforated flint or 
horn appended to them. This is a 
charm to guard the creatures from night- 
mare. The flint is to propitiate the 


1172 


Stagirite 


gnomes, and the horn to obtain the 
good graces of Pan, the protector of 
cattle. 


Staff. J keep the staff in my own hand. 
I keep possession; I retain the right. 
The staff was the ancient sceptre, and 
therefore, figuratively, it means, power, 
authority, dignity, etc. 

To part with the staff. To lose or give 
up office or possession. (See above.) 
“Give up your Staff, sir.and the king his realm.” 

Shakespeare: 2 Henry VI, ii, 3. 

To put down one’s staff in a place. To 
take up one’s residence. The allusion 
is to the tent-staff: where the staff is 
placed, there the tent is stretched, and 
the nomad resides. 

To strike my staff. To lodge for the 
time being. 

“Thou mayst see me at thy pleasure, for 1 
intend to strike my staff at yonder hostelry."— 
Cesur Borgia, Xv. 

Staff of Life (Zhe). Bread, which is 
the swpport of life. Shakespeare says, 
‘*The boy was the very staff of my age.’’ 
The allusion is to a staff which supports 
the feeble in walking. 


Stafford. He has had a treat in 
Stafford Court. He has been thoroughly 
cudgelled. Of course the pun is on the 
word staff, a stick. The French have a 
similar phrase—‘‘ /7 a esté au festin de 
Martin Baston’’ (He has been to Jack 
Drum’s entertainment). 


Stafford Law. Club law. A beating. 
The pun is on the word staff, a stick. 
(Italian, Braccésca licenza.) (Florio, p. 
66.) (See above.) 


Stag. The reason why a stag sym- 
bolises Christ is from the superstition 
that it draws serpents by its breath from 
their holes, and then tramples them to 
death. (See Pliny : Nat. Hist., viii. 50.) 

Stag in Christian art. The attribute 
of St. Julian Hospitaller, St. Felix of 
Valois, and St. Aidan. When it has a 
crucifix between its horns it alludes to 
the legendary tale of St. Hubert. When 
luminous it belongs te St. Eustachius. 


Stags, in Stock Exchange phrase- 
ology, are persons who apply for the 
allotment of shares in a joint-stock com- 


| pany, not because they wish to hold 


the shares, but because they hope to sell 
the allotment at a premium. If they 
fail in this they férbear to pay the de- 
posit and the allotment is forfeited. (Sve 
BEAR, BULL.) 


Stagirite or Stagyrite (5 syl.). 
(Greek, στάγειρος.) Aristotle, who was 


Stain 


1173 


Standards 


born at Stagi’ra, in Macedon. Gener- 
ally called Stag’irite in English verse. 
“Tn one rich soul 
Plato the Stagyrite, and Tully joined.” 
Thomson: Summer. 
“ And rules as strict his laboured work confine 
As if the Stagirite o’erlooked each line.” 
Pope: Essay on Criticism. 
“ Andall the wisdom of the Stagirite. 
Enriched and beautified his studious mind.” 
Wordsworth, 


Stain. A contraction of 
(Latin, dis-tingere, to discolour.) 


distain. 


Stalking-horse. A mask to conceal 
some design; a person put forward to 
mislead ; asham. Fowlers used to con- 
ceal themselves behind horses, and went 
on stalking step by step till they got 
within shot of the game. 

N.B. To stalk is to walk with. strides, 
from the Anglo-Saxon st@lcan. 

“He uses his folly like a stalking-horse, and 
under the presentation of that he shoots his wit.” 
—Shakespeare: As You Like It, v. 4. 

Stammerer (7/c). 

Louis II. of France, le Bégue. 
877-879.) 

Michael II., Emperor of the Hast, /e 
Begue. (*, 820, 829.) 

Notker or Notger of St. Gall. 
912.) 

Stamp. 715 of the right stamp—has 
the stamp of genuine merit. A meta- 
phor taken from current coin, which is 
stamped with a recognised stamp and 
superscription. 

Stampede. A sudden panic in a 
herd of buffaloes, causing them to rush 
away pell-mell. The panic-flight of the 
Federals at Bull Run, near the Poto’mac, 
U.S., in 1861, was a stampede, 


Stand. 170 stand for achild. Tobe 
sponsor for it; to stand in its place and 
answer for it. 


Stand Nunky (70). (Sec Nunxy.) 
Stand Off (70). To keep ata distance. 


Stand Out (70). I'll stand it out— 
persist in what I say. A mere transla- 
tion of ‘persist’? (Latin, per-sisto or 
per-sto). 


Stand Sam (70). 


Stand Treat (70). 
penses of a treat. 


Stand Upon (70). As 70 stand upon 
one’s privilege or on punctilios ; this is 
the Latin insisto. In French, ‘‘ Jnsister 
sur son privilege or sur des vétilles.”’ 

Stand to a Bargain (70), to abide 
by it, is simply the Latin stare conventis, 
conditionibus stare, pactis stare, etc. 


(846, 


(830- 


(See Sam.) 
To pay the ex- 


Stand to his Guns (70). To per- 
sist in a statement; not to give way. A 
military phrase. 

“The Speaker said he hoped the gallant gentle- 
min would try to modify his phrase ; but Colonel 
saunderson§ still stood to his guns.’ — Daily 
Graphic, 8rd February, 1893, 

Stand to Reason (70), or Jt stands 
to reason, is the Latin constare, constat, 


Standing Dish (4). An article of 
food which usually appears at table. 
Cibus quotidiadnus. 


Standing Orders. Rules or instruc- 
tions constantly in force. 

Standing orders. hose bye-laws of 
the Houses of Parliament for the con- 
duct of their proceedings which stand in 
force till they are either rescinded or 
suspended. Their suspension is gener- 
ally caused by a desire to hurry through 
a Bill with unusual expedition. 


Standing Stones. (See STONES.) 


Standard. American standard of 1776. 
A snake with thirteen rattles, about to 
strike, with the motto ‘* Don’r TREAD ON 
ΜῈ." 


Standards. 

Standard of Augustus. A globe, to 
indicate his conquest of the whole 
world. 

Standard of Edward 1. The arms of 
England, St. George, St. Edmond, and 
St. Edward. 

Standard of Mahoiet. 
CHAKI.) 

Standard of the Anglo-Saxons, A 
white horse. 

Royal Standard of Great Britain, A 
banner with the national arms covering 
the entire field. 

The Celestial Standard. So the Turks 
call their great green banner, which they 
say was given to Mahomet by the angel 
Gabriel. (Sce SANDSCHAKI. ) 

Constantinople (Standard of), called 
Lab’arum. It consisted of a silver- 
plated spear with a cross-beam, from 
which hung a small silk banner, bearing 
the portrait of the reigning family and 
the famous monogram. 

Danish Standard, A raven. 

Egypt (ancient), Aneagle stripped of 
its feathers, an emblem of the Nile; the 
head of an ox. 

Franks (ancient). A tiger or wolf; 
but subsequently the Roman eagle. 

Gauls (ancient). A lion, bull, or bear. 

Greco- Egyptian Standard. A round- 
headed table-knife or a semicircular fan. 

Greece (ancient). A purple coat on the 
top of a spear. 


(See Sanps- 


Standards 


1174 


Stank Hen 


i 


(1) Athens, Minerva, an olive, an owl. 

(2) Corinth, a pegasus or flying horse. 

(3) Lacedenon, the initial letter L, in 
Greek (A). 

(4) Messi’na, the initial letter M. 

(5) Thebes, a sphinx. 

Heliop'olis. On the top of a staff, the 
head of a white eagle, with the breast 
stripped of feathers and without wings. 
This was the symbol of Jupiter and of 
the Lagides. 

Jews (ancient), (‘‘degel”’) belonged to 
the four tribes of Judah, Reuben, 
Ephraim, and Dan. The Rabbins say 
the standard of Judah bore a dion, that 
of Reuben a man, that of Ephraim a 
bull, and that of Dan the cherubim (Gen. 
xlix. 3-22), They were ornamented with 
white, purple, crimson, and blue, and 
were embroidered. 

Persia (ancient). The one adopted by 
Cyrus, and perpetuated, was a golden 
eagle with outstretched wings; the 
colour white. 

Persian Standard. A blacksmith’s 
apron. Kaivah, sometimes called Gao, 
a blacksmith, headed a rebellion against 
Biver, surnamed Deh-ak (ten vices), a 
merciless tyrant, and displayed his apron 
asabanner, The apron was adopted by 
the next king, and continued for cen- 
turies to be thenationalstandard. (B.c. 
800.) 

Roman Standards. In the rude ages a 
wisp of straw. This was succeeded by 
bronze or silver devices attached to a 
staff. Pliny enumerates five—viz. the 
eagle, wolf, minotaur, horse, and boar. 
Tn later ages the image of the emperor, 
a hand outstretched, a dragon with a 
silver head and body of taffety. Ma’rius 
confined all promiscuous devices to the 
cohorts, and reserved the eagle for the 
exclusive use of the legion. This eagle, 
made of gold and silver, was borne on 
the top of a spear, and was represented 
with its wings displayed, and bearing in 
one of its talons a thunderbolt. 

Turkish Standards. 

(1) Sanjak Cherif (Standard of the 
Prophet), green silk. This is preserved 
with great care in the Seraglio, and is 
never brought forth except in time of 
war. 

(2) The Sanjak, red. 

(3) The Tug, consisting of one, two, 
or three horse-tails, according to the 
rank of the person who bearsit. Pachas 
with three tails are of the highest dig- 
nity, and are entitled beglerbeg (prince of 
princes). Beys have only one horse-tail. 


The tails are fastened to the end of a | 


gilt lance, and carried before the pacha 
or bey. 

(4) The Alem, a broad standard which, 
instead of a spear-head, has in the mid- 
dle a silver plate of a crescent shape. 


Standards of Individuals. 

Avaustus (Of). A globe, to indicate 
his ‘‘ empire of the world.”’ 

Epwarp I, (Uf). The arms of England, 
St. George, St. Edmund, and St. Ed- 
ward. 

Manomer (Of). 
Standards. 


See under Turkish 


Standards (Size of) varied according 
to the rank of the person who bore them, 
The standard of an emperor was eleven 
yards in length; of a king, nine yards ; 
of a prince, seven yards; of a marquis, 
six and a half yards; of an earl, six 
yards ; of a viscount or baron, five yards ; 
of a knight-banneret, four and a half 
yards; of a baronet, four yards. They 
generally contained the arms of the 
bearer, his cognisance and crest, his 
motto or war-cry, and were fringed with 
his livery. 

The Battle of the Standard, between 
the English and the Scotch, at Cuton 
Moor, near Northallerton, in 1138. Here 
David I., fighting on behalf of Matilda, 
was defeated by King Stephen’s general 
Robert de Moubray. It received its 
name from a ship’s mast erected on a 
waggon, and placed in the centre of the 
English army; the mast displayed the 
standards of St. Peter of York, St. John 
of Beverley, and St. Wilfred of Ripon. 
On the top of the mast was a little 
casket containing a consecrated host. 
(Hailes : Annals of Scotland, i. p. 85.) 


Stang. 170 ride the stang. To be 
under petticoat government. At one 
time a man who ill-treated his wife was 
made to sit on a ‘‘stang’’ or pole hoisted 
on men’s shoulders. On this uneasy 
conveyance the “ stanger’’? was carried 
in procession amidst the hootings and 
jeerings of his neighbours, (Saxon, 
steng, a pole.) (See SKIMMINGTON.) 


Stanhope (4). A light open one- 
seated carriage, with two or four wheels. 
Invented by a Mr. Stanhope. 


Stanhope Lens. A cylindrical lens 
with spherical ends of different radii. 
The covering of the tube into which the 
lens is fitted is called the ‘‘ cap.”’ 


Stank Hen (4). Amoor-hen. (Stag- 
nun (Latin], a pool, pond, or stank 
[tank still common]; s¢o, to stand.) 


Stannary Courts 11 


τὸ Starvation Dundas 


Stannary Courts. Courts of record 
in Counwall and Devon for the adminis- 
tration of justice among the tinners. 
(Latin, sfannum, tin.) 


Star (4), in theatrical language, 
means a popular actor. 


Star (in Christian art). St. Bruno 
bears one on his breast; St. Dominic, 
St. Humbert, St. Peter of Alcan’tare, 
one over their head, or on their fore- 
head, etc. 

Star. The ensign of knightly rank. 
A star of some form constitutes part of 
the insignia of every order of knight- 
hood. 

His star is in the ascendant. He isin 
luck’s way; said of a person to whom 
some good fortune has fallen and who 
is very prosperous. According to astro- 
logy, those leading stars which are above 
the horizon at a person’s birth influence 
his life and fortune; when those stars 
are in the ascendant, he is strong, 
healthy, and lucky; but when they are 
depressed below the horizon, his stars 
do not shine on him, he is in the shade 
and subject to ill-fortune. 

“The star of Richelieu was still in the ascend- 
ant.""—St. Simon. 

Star Chamber. A court of civil and 
criminal jurisdiction at Westminster, 
abolished in the reign of Charles I. 
So called because the ceiling or roof was 
decorated with gilt stars. Its jurisdic- 
tion was to punish such offences as the 
law had made no provision for. 

The chamber where the ‘‘starrs”’ 
or Jewish documents were kept was a 
separate room. The Star Chamber was 
the Caméra Stellata, not Caméra StarGate. 

“Tt is well known that, before the banishment 
of the Jews by Edward I., their contracts and ob- 
ligations were denominated ... starra, or stars. 
... The room in the exchequer wheré the chests 
“ον Were kept was .. . the starr-chamber.’— 
Blackstone: Commentaries, vol. ii. book iy. p. 266, 
a note. 

Star-crossed. Not favoured by the 
stars; unfortunate. 


Star of Bethlehem (77%), botanic- 
ally called ornithogalum. The French 
peasants call it ‘La dame @onze heures,” 
because it opens at eleven o’clock. 
Called ‘‘ star ’’ because the flower is 
star-shaped ; and ‘‘ Bethlehem ”’ because 
it is one of the most common wild 
flowers of Bethlehem and the Holy 
Land generally. 


Star of the South. A splendid 
diamond found in Brazil in 1853. 


Stars and Garters! (J/y). An ex- 
pletive, or mild kind of oath, ‘The stars 


and garters of knighthood, Shakespeare 
makes Richard III. swear “ΒΥ my 
George, my garter, and my crown!”’ 
(Richard LIT, iv. 4.) 


Stars and Stripes (7/e) or the Star- 
spangled Banner, the flagof the United 
States of North America. 


The first flag of the United States, raised by 
Washington June 2, 1776, consisted of thirteen 
stripes, alternately red and white, with a blue 
canton emblazoned with the crosses of St. George 
and St. Andrew. 

In 1777 Congress ordered that the canton should 
have thirteen white stripes in a blue field. 

In 1794 (after the admission of Vermont and 
Kentucky) the stripes and stars were each in- 
creased to fifteen. 

In 1818 S. R. Reid suggested that the original 
thirteen stripes should he restored, anda star he 
added to signify the States in the union. 

πὴ The tlag preceding 1776 represented a coiled 
rattlesnake with thirteen rattles,and the motto 
Dowt tread onme. This was an imitation of the 
Scotch thistle and the motto Nemo me impure 
lacessit. 


“Oh! say, does that star-spangled banner yet 

O'er the land of the free and the home of the 

brave ?” 

Starboard and Larboard, Star- 
is the Anglo-Saxon steor, rudder, bord, 
side ; meaning the right side of a ship 
(looking forwards), Larboard is now 
obsolete, and ‘‘ port’ is used instead. 
To port the helm is to put the helm to 
the larboard. Byron, in his shipwreck 
(Don Juan), says of the ship— 

“She gave a heel [i.e. turned on one side], and 
then a lurch to port, 

And going down bead foremost, sunk, in short.” 

Stareh. Mrs. Anne Turner, half- 
milliner, half-procuress, introduced into 
England the French custom of using 
yellow starch in getting up bands and 
cuffs. She trafficked in poison, and 
being concerned in the murder of Sir 
Thomas Overbury, appeared on the 
scaffold with a huge ruff. This was 
done by Lord Coke’s order, and was the 
means of putting an end to this absurd 
fashion. 


“T shall never forget poor Mistress Turner, my 
honoured patroness, peace be withher! She had 
the ill-luck to meddle in the matter of Somerset 
and Overbury, and so the great earl and his lady 
siipt their necks out of the collar,and left her 
and some half-dozen others to suffer in their 
stead.”—Sir Walter Scott: Fortunes of Nigel, viii. 

Starry Sphere. The eighth heaven 
of the Peripatetic system; also called 
the ‘‘ Firmament.”’ 


“ The Crystal Heaven is this, whose r-gour guides 
And binds the starry sphere.” J 
Caumoens : Lusiad, bk. x. 


Starvation Dundas. Henry Dundas, 
first Lord Melville, who was the first to 
introduce the word starvation into the 
language, on an American debate in 
1775. (Anglo-Saxon, steorfan, to perish 
of hunger; German, sterben ; Dutch, 
sterven.) 


Starved with Cold 11 
Starved with Cold. Half-dead with 
cold. (Anglo-Saxon, steorfan, to die.) 


Stations. The fourteen stations of the 
Catholie Church. These are generally 
called ‘‘Stations of the Cross,’’ and the 
whole series is known as the via Calvaria 
or via Crucis. Each station represents 
some item in the passage of Jesus from 
the Judgment Hall to Calvary, and at 
each station the faithful are expected to 
kneel and offer up a prayer in memory 
of the event represented by the fresco, 
picture, or otherwise. They are as fol- 
lows :— 

(1) Jesus is condemned to death. 

(2) Jesus is made to hear His cross. 

(3) Je us falls the ffrst time under His cross. 

(4) Jesus meets His afflicted mother, 

(5) Simon the Cyrenean helps Jesus to carry 
His cross, 

(6) Veronica wipes the face of Jesus. 

(7) Jesus falls the second time. 


(8) Jesus speaks to the diughters of Jerusalem. 
(9) Jesus falls the third time. 
(10) Jesus is stripped of His garn ents. 


(Ll) Jesus is nailed to the cross. 


(19 Jesus dies on the cross. 

(13) Jesus is taken down from the cross. 

(14) Jesus is placed in the sepulchre. 

Statira. <A stock name of those his- 
torical romances which represented the 
fate of empires as turning on the effects 
produced on a crack-brained lover by 
some charming Manda’na or Statira. In 
La Calprentde’s Cassandra, Statira is 
represented as the perfection of female 
beauty, and is ultimately married to 
Oroonda’tes. 


Stator [the stopper or arrestor). 
When the Romans fled from the Sabines, 
they stopped at a certain place and 
made terms with the victors. Ou this 
spot they afterwards built a temple to 
Jupiter, and called it the temple of 
Jupiter Stator or Jupiter who caused 
them to stop in their flight. 

“ Here, Stator Jove and Phabus, god of verse 
The yotive tablet 1 suspend.” Prior. 

Statue. The largest ever made was 
the Colossos of Rhodes ; the next largest 
is the statue of Bavaria, erected by 
Louis I., King of Bavaria. The Bartholdi 
statue of Liberty is also worthy of men- 
tion. (See LIGHTHOUSES.) 

Statue. It was Pygmalion who fell in 
love with a statue he had himself made. 

Statue. Of all the projects of Alex- 
ander, none was more hare-brained than 
his proposal to have Mount Athos hewed 
into a statue of himself. It is said he 
even arranged with a sculptor to under- 
take the job. 


Status of Great Men. 
MEN.) 


Statute Fairs. 


(See GREAT 


(‘See Mor.) 


~ 


‘ 


6 Stéeplechase 


Steak. LBeef-steak is a slice of beef 
fried or broiled. In the north of Scot- 
land a slice of salmon fried is called a 
‘“salmon-steak.’? Also cod and hake 
split and fried. (Icelandic, s¢ei/, δέοι γα, 
roast.) 


Steal. A handle. Stealing --putting 
handles on (Yorkshire). This is the 
Anglo-Saxon sfela (a stalk or handle). 


“Steale or handell of a staffe, manche, hantel.” 
Pulsgrave. 


Steal a Herse. One man may steal 
a horse, but another must not look over 
the hedge. Some men are chartered 
libertines, while others are always eyed 
with suspicion, (Latin: “ Jat veniam 
corvis, vexat censura columbas.’’) 


Steal a March on One (7). To 
come on one unexpectedly, as when an 
army steals a march or appears unex- 
pectedly before an enemy. 


Steam-kettles. Contemptuous name 
applied to vessels propelled by steam- 
power, whether steamers, men-of-war, 
or any other craft. 

“These steam-kettles of ours can never he de- 
pended upon. 1 wish we could go back to the 
good old sailing shi, s. When we had them we 
knew what we were about. .. . Now we trust to 
machinery, and it fails us in time of need.”— 
Kingston: The Vhree Admirals, chap. xvi. 

Steelyard (London, adjoining Dow- 
gate); so called from being the place 
where the king’s steelyard or beam was 
set up, for weighing goods imported 
into London. 


Steenie (2 syl.). A nickname given 
by James I. to George Villiers, Duke of 
Buckingham. The half-profane allusion 
is to Acts vi. 15, where those who looked 
on Stephen the martyr ‘‘saw his face 
as it had been the face of an angel.” 


Steeple-engine. A form of marine 
engine common on American river-boats, 


Steeple-Jack (4). A man who 
ascends a church spire to repair it. This 
is done by a series of short ladders, tied 
one to another as the man ascends, the 
topmost one being securely tied to the 
point of the spire. Not many men have 
nerve enough for the dangerous work or 
a steeple-Jack. 


Steeplechase. A horse-race across 
fields, hedges, ditches, and obstacles of 
every sort that happen to lie in the way, 
The term arose from a party of fox- 
hunters on their return from an un- 
successful chase, who agreed to race to 
the village church, the steeple of which 
was in sight; he who first touched the 
church with his whip was to be the 


Stelvio 


—— 


Stewing 


= 


winner. The entire distance was two 
miles. 
< The Grand National Steeplechase 


is run on the Aintree course, Liverpool. 


Stel’vio. Te pass of the Stelvio. The 
highest carriage-road in Europe (9,176 
feet above the sea-level). It leads from 
Bor’mio to Glurns. 


Sten'tor. The voice of a Stentor. A 
very loud voice. Stentor was a Greek 
herald in the Trojan war. According to 
Homer, his voice was as loud as that of 
fifty men combined. 


Stento’rian Lungs. Lungs like those 
of Stentor. 


Sten'toropho’nic Voice. A voice 
proceeding from a speaking-trumpet or 
stentorophonic tube, such as Sir Samuel 
Moreland invented to be used at sea. 


“T heard a formidable noise 

Loud as the stentrophonic voice, 

That roared far off, ‘ Dispatch ! and strip! 

Butler: Hudibras, iii. 1. 

Stepfather and Father-in-law. 
The stepfather is the father of one 
bereaved of his natural father by death. 
A stepmother is the mother of one 
bereaved of his mother by death. A 
stepfather must be married to a widow, 
and thus become the stepfather of 
her children by a previous husband; 
and a stepmother must be married to 
a widower, and thus become the step- 
mother of his children by a former wife. 
Similarly, stepson and _ stepdaughter 
must be the son and daughter by the 
father or mother deceased, the relict 
marrying again. FATHER-IN-LAW and 
MorHeR-IN-LAW are the father and 
mother of the wife to her husband, and 
of the husband to the wife. Similarly, 
sons-in-law and daughters-in-law are 
the sons and daughters of the parents 
of the wife to the husband and of the 
husband to the wife. (Anglo-Saxon, 
steop, bereaved.) 


Stephen. Crown of St. Stephen. 
crown of Hungary. 

“Tf Hungarian independence should be secured 
through the help of Prince Napoleon, the P rince 


himself should receive the crown of St. Stephen.” 
—Kossuth: Memoirs of my Exile 1830°. 


Stephen’s Bread (S¢.). Stones. Fed 


γ᾽ 


The 


with St. Stephen’s bread. Stoned. In 
French, ‘‘ Miches de St. Etienne.’? In 
Italian, ‘* Pan di St. Stefano.” Of 


course the allusion is to the stoning of 
Stephen. 


Stephens (Joanna) professed to have 
made a very wonderful discovery, and 
Drummond, the banker, set on foot a 


subscription to purchase her secret. The 
sum she asked was £5,000. When 
£1,500 had been raised by private sub- 
scription, government voted £3,500. ‘The 
secret was a decoction of soap, swine’s 
cresses, honey, egg-shells, and snails, 
made into pills, and a powder to match. 
Joanna Stephens got the money and 
forthwith disappeared. 


Stepney Papers. A _ voluminous 
collection of political letters between 
Mr. Stepney, the British minister, and 
our ambassadors at various European 
courts, the Duke of Marlborough, and 
other public characters of the time. Part 
of the correspondence is in the British 
Museum, and part in the Public Record 
Office. It is very valuable, as this was 


the period called the Seven Years’ War. 
The original letters are preserved in 
bound volumes, but the whole corre- 
spondence is im print also. (Between 
1692 and 1706.) 


Sterling Money. Spelman derives 
the word from ester/ings, merchants of 
the Hanse Towns, who came over and 
reformed our coin in the reign of John. 
Others say it is starling (little star), in 
allusion to a star impressed on the coin. 
Others refer it to Stirling Castle in Scot- 
land, where money was coined in the 
reign of Edward I. (Sir Matthew Haile.) 

“Tn the time of King Richard I., monie coine | 
in the east parts of Germany began to be of 
especiall request in England for the puritie 
thereof, and was called Easterling monie as all 
the inhabitants of those parts were called Kaster- 
lings; and shortly after some of that countrie, 
skillfull in mint matters and allaies, were sent 
for into this realm to bring the coine to perfec- 
tion, which since that time was called of them 
sterling for Easterling.’—Camden. 

Stern. 170 sit at the stern; At the 
stern of public affairs. Having the man: 
agement of public affairs. The stern is 
the steer-ern—i.e. steer-place; and to sit 
at the stern is ‘‘to sit at the helm.”’ 

“Sit at chiefest stern of public weal.” 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry VI., i. 1. 

Sternhold (Zhoms) versified fifty- 
one of the Psalms. The remainder were 
the productions of Hopkins an some 
others. Sternhold and Hopkins’ Psalms 
used to be attached to the Common 
Prayer BES 

“ Mista’cen cho’rs refuse the solemn strain 

Of ancient S-erahol.” Crabbe: Borough. 

Sterry (in Hidlibras). A fanatical 

preacher, admired by Hugh Peters. 


Stewing in their own Gravy. 
Especially applied to a besieged city. 
The besiegers may leave the hostile city 
to suffer from want of food, loss of com- 
merce, confinement, and so on. The 


Stick 


phrase is very old, borrowed perhaps 
from the Bible, ‘‘ Thou shalt not seethe 
a kid in its mother’s milk.’’ Chaucer 
says— i κἂν 
“Tn his own gress I made him frie. 
For anger and for verry jalousie.” 
Prologue to the Wife of Buthes Tale. 

* We are told that the Russian ambassador, 
when Louis Philippe fortified Paris, remarked, if 
ever again Paris 15 in insurrection, it “can _ he 
made to stew in its own gravy Gus)"; and Bis- 
marck, at the siege of Paris, in 1871, said, the Ger- 
mans intend to leave the city “to seethe in its 
own milk.”"—See Snell: Chronicles of Twyford, 
p. 295. 

“He relieved us out of our purgatory ... after 
we had been stewing in our own gravy.’ —The 
London Spy, 1716. 

Stick. A composing stick is a hand 
instrument into which a compositor 
places the letters to be set up. Each 
row or line of letters is pushed home 
and held in place by a movable *‘ setting 
rule,’’ against which the thumb presses. 
When a stick is full, the matter set up 
is transferred to a ‘‘galley”’ (q.v.), and 
from the galley it is transferred to the 
‘*chase”’ (g.v.). Called a stich because 
the compositor sfic/s the letters into it. 


Stickler. One who obstinately main- 
tains some custom or opinion; as a 
stickler for Church government. (Sve 
below.) 

A stickler about trifles. One particu- 
lar about things of no moment. Stick- 
lers were the seconds in ancient single 
combats, very punctilious about the 
minutest points of etiquette. They 
were so called from the white stic 
which they carried in emblem of their 
office. 

“Tam willing ... to give thee precedence,and 
content myself with the humbler office of stick- 
ler.’—Sir Walter Scott: Fair Maid of Perth, chap. 
XVI. 

Stiff, AnI.0.U.; a bill of accept- 
ance. ‘‘ Hard,’’ means hard cash. ‘‘ Did 
you get it stiff or hard?’’ means by an 
I.0.U. or in cash. Of course ‘‘stiff’’ 
refers to the stiff interest exacted by 
money lenders. 

“His ‘stiff’ was floating about in too many 
directions, at too many high figures."—Ouida: 
Under Two Flags, chap. vii. 

Stigmata. Impressions on certain 
persons of marks corresponding to some 
or all of the wounds received by our 
Saviour in His trial and crucifixion. The 
following claim to have been so stigma- 
tised : 

(1) Men. Angelo del Paz (all the 
marks) ; Benedict of Reggio (the crown 
of thorns), 1602; Carlo di Saeta (the 
lance-wound) ; Dodo, a Premonstraten- 
sian monk (all the marks); Francis of 
Assisi (all the marks, which were im- 
pressed on him by a seraph with six 


1178 Still Waters Run Deep 


wings), September 15th, 1224; Nicholas 
of Ravenna, etc. 

(2) Women. Bianca de Gazeran; St. 
Catharine of Sienna; Catharine di Ra- 
conisco (the crown of thorns), 1583; 
Cecilia di Nobili of Nocera, 1655; Clara 
di Pugny (mark of the spear), 1514; 
‘* Estatica’’ of Caldaro (all the marks), 
1842; Gabriella da Piezolo of Aquila 
(the spear-mark), 1472 ; Hieronyma Car- 
vaglio (the spear-mark, which bled every 
Friday); Joanna Maria of the Cross; 
Maria Razzi of Chio (marks of the thorny 
crown); Maria Villani (ditto); Mary 
Magdalen di Pazzi; Mechtildis von 
Stanz; Ursula of Valencia; Veronica 
Guliani (all the marks), 1694; Vincenza 
Ferreri of Valencia, ete. . 


Stigmatise. To puncture, to brand 
(Greek, stigna, a puncture). Slaves 
used to be branded, sometimes for the 
sake of recognising them, and some- 
times by way of punishment. The 
branding was effected by applying a 
red-hot iron marked with certain letters 
to their forehead, and then rubbing 
some colouring matter into the wound. 
A slave that had been branded was by 
the Romans called a stigmatic, and the 
brand was called the stigma. 


Stigmites, or St. Stephen’s Stones, 
are chalced’onies with brown and red 
spots. 


Stiletto of the Storm (7/v). 
ning. 

Still. Cornelius Tacitus is called 
Cornelius the Still in the Fardle of 
Facions, ‘‘still’’ being a translation of 
the Latin word tacitus. 

“Cornelius the Stylle in his firste hook of his 
yerely exploietes called in Latine Ansales.. ."— 
Ch. iii. 8. 3 (1555). 

Still Sow. A man cunning and sel- 
fish ; one wise in his own interest ; one 
who avoids talking at meals that he may 
enjoy his food the better. So caHed 
from the old proverb, ‘‘ The still sow eats 
the wash ”’ or ‘‘ draff.’’ 


‘““ We do not act that often jest and Jangh ; 
'Tis old but true, ‘Still swine eat all the 


Light- 


draugh.’” A 
Shakespeare: Merry Wives of Windsor, iv. 2. 
Still WatersRun Deep. Silent and 


quiet conspirators or traitors are most 
dangerous; barking dogs never _ bite; 
the fox barks not when he would steal 
the lamb. 


“ Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep ; 
And in his simple show he harbours treason. 
The fox barks not when he would steal the 

lamb ; 
No, no, my sovereign, Gloucester is a man 
Unsounded yet, and full of deep deceit” 
_. Shakespeare: 2 Henry VI,, iii. 1, - 


Stilling 


1179 Stock, Lock, and Barrel 


Stilling (John 
Jung, the mystic or pietist; called by 


Henry), surnamed 


(‘‘ Will you give it?’ “1 will’’); the 
third question was to the surety, An 


Carlyle the German Dominie Sampson; | spondes? to which he replied, Spondeo 


‘“‘awkward, honest, irascible, in old- 
fashioned clothes and bag-wig.’’ Areal 
character. (1740-1817.) 


Stilo No’ve. New-fangled notions. 
When the calendar was reformed by 
Pope Gregory XIII. (1582), letters used 
to be dated stilo nove, which grew in 
time to be a.cant phrase for any innova- 
tion. 

“And su I leave you to your stilo novo.” 
Beaumont and Fletcher. 

Stimulants of Great Men, 

BONAPARTE took snuff when he wished to 
stimulate his intellect, or when he was greatly 
annoyed. 4 

BRATIAM (the singer) drank bottled porter. _ 

The Rev. WILLIAM BULL, the Nonconformist, 
Was an inveterate smoker. 

ΤΟΝ Byion took gin and water. 

G. F. COOKE took all sorts of stimulants. 

LORD ERSKINE took large doses of opium. 

_ GLADSTONE'S restorative is an egg beaten up 
in sherry. 

HossEs drank cold water. 

Ep. KEAN drank raw brandy. 

J. KEMBLE was an opium eater. 

NEWTON smoked. 

Pope drank strong coffee. 

WEDDERBURNE (the first Lord Ashburton) 
placed a blister on his chest when he was about 
to make a great speech. (Dr. Paris: Pharmaco- 
logia.) 

Stink’omalee’. So Theodore Hook 
called University College, London. The 
fun of the sobriquet is this: the buildings 
stand on the site of a large rubbish 
store or sort of refuse field, into which 
were cast potsherds and all sorts of 
sweepings. About the same time the 
question respecting Trincomalee in Cey- 
lon was in agitation, so the wit spun the 
two ideas together, and produced the 
word in question, which was the more 
readily accepted as the non-religious 
education of the new college, and its 
rivalry with Oxford and Cambridge, 
gave for a time very great offence to the 
High Church and State party. 


Stip’ulate (5 syl.). The word is 
generally given from the Latin stipula (a 
straw), and it is said that a straw was 
given to the purchaser in sign of a real 
delivery. Isidore (vy. 24) asserts that the 
two contracting parties broke a straw 
between them, each taking a moiety, 
that, by rejoinmg the parts, they might 
prove their right to the bargain. With 
all deference to the Bishop of Seville, his 
“*fact ’? seems to belong to limbo-lore. 
All bargains among the Romans were 
made by asking a question and replying 
to it. One said, An stipem vis? the 
other replied, Stipem volo (‘‘ Do you re- 
quire money?”’ “1 do’’) ; the next ques- 
tion and answer were, An dabis 2? Dabo 


(‘‘ Will you be security?”’ “1 will’’), 
and the bargain was made. So that 
stipulate is compounded of stips-volo 
(stip'ulo), and the tale about breaking 
the straws seems to be concocted to 
bolster up a wrong etymology. 


“Stir Up” Sunday. The last Sunday 
in Trinity. So called from the first two 
words of the collect. It announces to 
schoolboys the near approach of the 
Christmas holidays. 


Stirrup (4). A rope to climb by. 
(Anglo-Saxon, sti’g-ra'p, a climbing 
rope. The verb sti’g-an is to climb, to 
mount.) 


Stirrup Cup. A “parting cup,’’ 
given in the Highlands to guests on 
leaving when their feet are in the 
stirrups. In the north of the Highlands 
called ‘‘ cup at the door.’ (Sze COFFEE.) 

* Lord Marmion’s bugles blew to horse ; 
Then came the stirrup-cup in course ; 
Between the baron and his host 
No point of courtesy was lost.” 

Sir Walter Scott : Marmion, i. 51. 

Stirrup Oil. A beating; a variety 
of ‘strap oil”? (qg.v.). The French De 
Vhuile de cotret (faggot or stick oil). 


Stiver. Not a stirer. Not a penny. 
The stiver was a Dutch coin, equal to 
about a penny. (Dutch, stwiver.) 


Stock. From the verb to stick (to 
fasten, make firm, fix). 

Live stock. The fixed capital of a farm.. 

Stock in trade. 'The fixed capital. 

The village stocks, in which the feet 
are stuck or fastened. 

A gun stock, in which the gun is stuck 
or made fast. 

It is on the stocks. Itis in hand, but 
not yet finished. The stocks is the frame 


| in which a ship is placed while building, 


and so long as it is in hand it is said to 
be or to lie on the stocks. 


Stock Exchange Slang. Sve each 
article : 
Backwardation. Floaters. 
Bears. Fourteen Hundred. 
Berthas. Kite. 
Berwicks. Lame Duck. 
Brums. Leeds. 
Bulls. Morgans. 
Caleys. Muttons. 
Claras. Pots. 
Cohens. Singapores. 
Contango. Smelts. 
Dogs. Stag. 
Dovers. Yorks. 


Stock, Lock, and Barrel. Every 
part, everything. Gun-maker’s phrase. 


Stockdove 


ἘΞ 


1150 


Stohe Jug 


‘‘Bverything is to be sold off—stock, 
lock, and barrel.”’ 


Stockdove. The wild pigeon; so 
called because it breeds in the stocks of 
hollow trees, or rabbit burrows. 


Stockfish. J will beat thee like a 
stockfish. Moffet and Bennet, in their 
Health’s Improvement (p. 262), inform us 
that dried cod, till it is beaten, is called 
buckhorn, because it is so tough; but 
after it has been beaten on the stock, 
it is termed stockfish. (In French, 
etriller quelqwiun, a double carillon, 
‘to a pretty tune.’’) 

“Peace! thou wilt be beaten like a stockfis' 
else."—Jonson: Every Man in his Lumour, iii. 2. 


Stocking. (Sve BLUE Srock1na.) 


Stockwell Ghest. A supposed ghost 
that haunted the village of Stockwell, 
near London, in 1772. The real author 
of the strange noises was Anne Robin- 
son, aservant. (See Cock ΤΑΝΕ GuHost.) 


Sto'ies. Founder of the Stoie school. 
Zeno of Athens. These philosophers 
were so called because Zeno used to give 
his lectures in the Stoa Pecilé of Athens, 
(Greek, stoa, a porch.) 

Epicte’tus was the founder of the New 
Stoic school. 

“The ancient Stoics in their porch 

With fierce dispute maintained their church, 

Beat out their brains in fight and study 

To prove that virtue is a body, 

That bonwn is an animal, 

Made good with stout polemic haw.” 

Butler : Mudibras, ii. 2. 

Stole (Latin, sfo/a). An ecclesiastical 
vestment, also called the Orarium, 
“ὁ Deinde circundat collum sun stola, 
que et Orariun dicitur.”’ It indicates 
“ Obedientiam fiilii Dei et jugum servi- 
tutis, quod pro salute hominum portavit. 
Deacons wear the stole over the left 
shoulder, and loop the two parts to- 
gether, that they may both hang on 
the right side. Priests wear it over both 
shoulders. (See Ducange: Stola.) 


Stolen Things are Sweet. A sop 
filched from the dripping-pan, fruit 
procured by stealth, and game illicitly 
taken, have the charm of dexterity to 
make them the more palatable. Solo- 
mon says, ‘‘ Stolen waters are sweet, and 
bread eaten in secret [?.e. by stealth] is 
pleasant.’ 


“ From busie cooks we love to steal a bit 
Behind their backs, and that in corners eat ; 
Nor need we here the reason why entreat ; 
All know the prover), ‘Stolen bread is sweet.’” 
History of Joseph, τι. ἃ. 


Stomach. Appetite: ‘‘He who hath 
no stomach for this fight.” (Shake- 
speare: Henry V., iv. 3.) 


~_ 


Appetite for honours, etc., or ambition: 
“Wolsey was a man of an unbounded 
stomach.”” (Henry VIIZ., iv. 2.) 

Appetite or inclination: ‘‘ Let me 
praise you while I have the stomach.”’ 
(Merchant of Venice, iii. 5.) 

Stomach. To swallow, to accept with 
appetite, to digest. 

To stomach an insult. 
and not resent it. 

“Tfyou must believe,stomach not all.”"—Shake- 
speare: Antony and Clevpatra, iii. 4. 

Stomech, meaning ‘“‘ wrath,’’ and the 
verb ‘to be angry,’ is the Latin stom’- 
achus, stomacha'ri. 

“ Pelifdwe stomachum cedere nescii.” Horace. 
(“The stomach (wrath) of relentless Achilles.) 

“Stomachahatur si quid asperius dixerim.”— 
Cicero, ( His stomach rose if I spoke sharper 
than usual.’’) 

The fourth stomach of vrwmninating 
animals is called the aboma'sus or abo- 
masun (from ab-oma'sum), 


Stone (1 syl.). The sacred stone of 
the Caa’ba (q7.r.) is, according to Arab 
tradition, the guardian angel of Paradise 
turned into stone. When first built by 
Abraham into the wall of the shrine it 
was clear as crystal, but it has become 
black from being kissed by sinful man. 

A hag-stone. A flint with a natural 
perforation throughit. Sometimes hung 
on the key of an outside door to ward off 
the hags. Sometimes such a stone used 
to be hung round the neck ‘‘ for luck” ; 
sometimes on the bedstead to prevent 
nightmare ; and sometimes on a horse- 
collar to ward off disease. 

Leave no stone unturned. Omit no 
minutiz if you would succeed. After the 
defeat of Mardonius at Plateea (B.c. 477), 
a report was current that the Persian 
General had left great treasures in his 
tent. Polycrites (4 syl.) the Theban 
sought long but found them not. The 
Oracle of Delphi, being consulted, told 
him ‘* to leave no stone unturned,”’ and 
the treasures were discovered. 


Stone Age (7ie). The period when 
stone implements were used. It pre- 
ceded the bronze age. 


Stone Blind. Wholly blind. 
Stone Cold. Cold asa stone. 
Stone Dead. Dead asa stone. 


Stone Jug. Either a stone jar or a 
prison, The Greek word κέραμος (λεγὰ- 
mos) means either an earthen jar or a 

rison, as IN χαλκέῳ ev κεράμῳ (chalkéo en 
keramo), in a brazen prison, When 
Venus complained to the immortals that 
Diomed had wounded her, Didné bade 


To swallow it 


Stone Soup 


1181 


Stones 


.-. ΤΠ nee se 


her cheer up, for other immortals had 
suffered also, but had borne up under 
their affliction: as Mars, for example, 
when Otos and Ephialtés bound him 

. . and kept him for thirteen months 
χωλκέῳ ev κεράμῳ (in a brazen prison, or 
brazen jug). (omer: Iliad, v. 381, ete. ; 
se? also ix. 469.) Ewing says keramos, 
p»tter’s earth or pottery, was also a 
prison, because prisoners were made to 
work up potters’ earth into jugs and other 
vessels. Thus we say, ‘‘ He was sent to 
the treadmill, meaning, to prison to 
work in the treadmill. 


Stone Soup or St. Bernard’s Soup. 
A beggar asked alms at a lordly mansion, 
but was told by the servants they had 
nothing to give him. ‘Sorry for it,’’ 
said the man, ‘ but will you let me boil 
a little water to make some soup of this 
stone?’’ This was so novel a proceed- 
ing, that the curiosity of the servants 
was aroused, and the man was readily 
furnished with saucepan, water, and a 
spoon. In he popped the stone, and 
begged for a little salt and pepper for 
flavouring. tirring the water and 
tasting it, he said it would be the better 
for any fragments of meat and veget- 
ables they might happen tohave. These 
were supplied, and ultimately he asked 
for a little catsup or other sauce. When 
fully boiled and fit, each of the servants 
tasted it, and declared that stone soup 
was excellent. (La soupe au caillou.) 


Stone Still. Perfectly still; with no 
more motion than a stone. 

1 will not struggle : I will stand stone still.” 

Shikespeare: King John, iv. 1. 

Stone of the Broken Treaty. 
Limerick. About a century and a half 
ago England made a solemn compact 
with Ireland. Ireland promised fealty, 
and England promised to guarantee to 
the Irish people civil and _ religious 
equality. When the crisis was over 
England handed Ireland over to a 
faction that has ever since bred strife 
and disunion. (Address of the Corpora- 
tion of Limerick to Mr. Bright, 1868.) 

* The ‘stone of the hrroken treaty’ is there, and 
from early in the morning till late at night 
gronps gither round it,and foster the tradition 


Ξ their national wrongs. ’—The Times. 


Stene ef Stumbling. This was 
much more significant among the Jews 
than it is with ourselves. One of the 
Pharisaic sects, called ΔΊ Δ or ‘* Dash- 
ers,”’? used to walk abroad without lifting 
their feet from the ground. They were 
for ever ‘“‘ dashing their feet against the 


stones,’? and 
way. 

Stone of Tongues, This wasastone 
given to Otnit, King of Lombardy, by 
his father dwarf Elberich, and had the 
virtue, when put into a person’s mouth, 
of enabling him to speak perfectly any 
foreign language. (Lhe Heldenbuch.) 


“stumbling ’’ on their 


Stones. 

Aerolites, or stones which have fallen 
from heaven. J. Norman Lockyer says 
the number of meteors which fall daily 
to the earth ‘‘ exceeds 21 millions.” (Vine- 
teenth Century, Nov., 1830, p. 787.) The 
largest aerolith on record is one that fell 
in Brazil. It is estimated to weigh 
14,000 Ibs. In 1806 a shower of stones 
fell near L’Aigle, and M. Biot was de- 
puted by the French Government to re- 
port on the phenomenon. He found 
between two and three thousand stones, 
the largest being about 17 lbs. in weight. 

Eagle stones. (See EAGLE-STONES, ) 

Health stones. Purites (2 syl.) found 
in Geneva and Savoy. So called from 
the notion that it loses its steel-blue 
colour if the person in possession of one 
is in ill health. 

Square stones. The most ancient idols 
were square stones. The head and limbs 
were subsequent additions. 

Touchstones. (q.v.) 

Stones. After the Moslem pilgrim has 
made his seven processions round the 
Caaba, he repairs to Mount Arafat, and 
before sunrise enters the valley of Mena. 
where he throws seven stones at each of 
three pillars, in imitation of Abraham 
and Adam, who thus drove away the 
devil when he disturbed their devotions. 

Standing stones. 'The most celebrated 
croups are those of Stonehenge, Avebury, 
in Wiltshire, Stennis in the Orkneys, and 
Carnac in Brittany. 

The Standing Stones of Stennis, in the 
Orkneys, resemble Stonehenge, and, says 
Sir W. Scott, furnish an irresistible re- 
futation of the opinion that these circles 
are Druidical. There is every reason to 
believe that the custom was prevalent in 
Scandinavia as well as in Gaul and 
Britain, and as common to the myth- 
ology of Odin as to Druidism. They 
were places of public assembly, and in 
the Eyrbiggia Saga is described the 


' manner of setting apart the Helga Feli 


(Holy Rocks) by the pontiff Thorolf for 
solemn meetings. 

4 Stones fallen down from Jupiter. 
Anaxag’oras mentions a stone that fell 
from Jupiter in Thrace, a description of 
which is given by Pliny. The Ephesians 


Stonebrash 


1182 


Stops 


asserted that their image of Diana came 
from Jupiter. The stone at Emessa, in 
Syria, worshipped as a symbol of the 
sun, was a similar meteorite. At Aby’- 
dos and Potide’a similar stones were 
preserved. At Corinth was one venerated 
as Zeus. At Cyprus was one dedicated 
to Venus, a description of which is given 
by Tacitus and Maximus Tyr'ius. Hero’- 
dian describes a similar stone in Syria. 
The famous Caa’ba stone at Mecca is a 
similar meteor. Livy recounts three falls 
of stones. On November 27th, 1492, just 
as Maximilian was on the point of en- 
gaging the French army near Ensisheim, 
a mass weighing 270 lbs. fell between 
the combatants ; part of this mass is now 
in the British Museum. In June, 1866, 
at Knyahinya, a village of Hungary, a 
shower of stones fell, the largest of which 
weighs above 5 cewt.; it was broken in 
the fall into two pieces, both of which 
are now in the Imperial Collection at 
Vienna. On December 13th, 1795, in 
the village of Thwing, Yorkshire, an 
aérolite fell weighing 56 lbs,, now in the 
British Museum. On September 10th, 
1813, at Adare, in Limerick, fell a 
similar stone, weighing 17 lbs., now in 
the Oxford Museum. On May Ist, 1860, 
in Guernsey county, Ohio, more than 
thirty stones were picked up within a 
space of ten miles by three; the largest 
weighed 103 Ibs. (Kesselmeyer and Dr. 
Otto Buchner: The Times, November 14th, 
1866.) 

“1 You have stones in your mouth. Said 
to a person who stutters or speaks very 
indistinctly The allusion is to Demos’- 
thenés, who cured himself of stuttering 
by putting pebbles in his mouth and 
declaiming on the sea-shore. 

Ὁ The orator who once 
Did fill his mouth with pebble stones 
When Le harangued,” 
Butler : HMudibras, i. 1. 

Precious stones. Said to be dew-drops 

condensed and hardened by the sun. 


Stonebrash. A name given in Wilt- 
shire to the subsoil of the north-western 
border, consisting of a reddish calcareous 
loam, mingled with flat stones; a soil 
made of small stones or broken rock. 


Stonehenge, says Geoffrey of Mon- 
mouth, was erected by Merlin (the magi- 
cian) to perpetuate the treachery of 
Hengist, who desired a friendly meeting 
with Vortigern, but fell upon him and 
his 400 attendants, putting them all to 
the sword. Aurelius Ambrosius asked 
Merlin to recommend a sensible memento 
of this event, and Merlin told the king 


| 
| 


| These stones had been brought b 


to transplant the ‘‘ Giants’ Dance ’’ from 
the mountain of Killaraus, in Ireland. 
the 
giants from Africa as baths, and all pos- 
sessed medicinal qualities. Merlin trans- 
planted them by magic, This tale owes 
its birth to the word ‘‘ stan-hengist,”’ 


| which means uplifted stones, but ** hen- 


in the American war. 


gist’? suggested the name of the tradi- 
tional hero, 
τ ΒΕ ΠΕΡΠΘΆΘΘΙ once thought a temple, you have 
A tnrens where kings, our earthly gods, were 
crowned, 
When by their wong, subjects they were 
sven. ryden: Epistles, ti. 
Stonewall Jackson. Thomas J. 
Jackson, one of the Confederate generals 
The name arose 
thus: General Bee, of South Caroli’na, 
observing his men waver, exclaimed, 
‘“‘Look at Jackson’s men; they stand 
like a stone wall!*’ (1826-1863.) 
Stony Arabia. A mistranslation of 
Aralia Petrea, where Petra is sup- 
posed to be an adjective formed from 
the Greek pefros (a stone), and not, as 
it really is, from the city of Petra, the 
capital of the Nabatheans. This city 


was called ZYhamud (rock-built). (See 
YEMEN.) 
Stool of Repentance. A low stool 


placed in front of the pulpit in Scotland, 
on which persons who had incurred an 
ecclesiastical censure were placed during 
divine service. When the service was 
over the ‘‘ penitent ’’ had to stand on the 
stool and receive the minister’s rebuke. 
Even in the present century this method 
of rebuke has been repeated. 

“Colonel Knox ... tried to take advantage of 
a merely formal proceeding to set Mr. Gladstone 
on the stool of repentance.’—The Times. 

Stops. Organs have no fixed number 
of stops; some have sixty or more, and 
others much fewer. A stop is a collec- 
tion of pipes similar in tone and quality, 
running through the whole or part of an 
organ. They may be divided into 
mouth-pipes and reed-pipes, according 
to structure, or into (1) metallic, (2) 
reed, (3) wood, (4) mixture or compound 
stops, according to material. The fol- 
lowing are the chief :— 

(1) Metallic. Principal (so called be- 
cause it is the first stop tuned, and is 
the standard by which the whole organ 
is regulated), the open diapason, dulci- 
ana, the 12th, 15th, tierce or 17th, lari- 
got or 19th, 22nd, 26th, 29th, 33rd, ete. 
(being respectively 12, 15, 17, ete., notes 
above the open diapason). 

(2) Reed (metalreed pipes). Bassoon, 


-Store 


1183 


Strain 


cremona, hautboy or oboe, trumpet, vox- 
humana (all in unison with the open 
diapason), clarion (an octave above the 
diapason and in unison with principal). 

(3) Wood. Stopt diapason, double 
diapason, and most of the flutes. 

(4) Compound or mixture. Flute (in 
unison with the principal), cornet, mix- 
ture or furniture, sesquialtera, cymbel, 
and cornet. 

* Grand organs have, in addition to 
the above, from two to two and a half 
octaves of pedals. 


Stops, strictly speaking, are three-fold, called 
the foundation stop, the mutation stop. and the 
miature stop. 

The foundation stop is one whose tone agrees 
with the normal pitch of the digital struck, or 
some octave of it. 

The mutation stops produce a tone that is neither 
the normal pitch nor yet an octave of the digital 
struck. 

The mixture stop needs no explanation. 

Among varieties of organ-stops may be men- 
tioned the complete stop, which has one pipe or 
reed to a note, The compound stop, which has 
more than one pipe or reed toa note. The five stop, 
comp sed of flue-pipes. The incomplete (or im- 
perfect) stop, Which has less than the full number 
of pipes. The manual stop, corresponding to the 
manual keyboard. The open stop, which has the 
pipes open at the upperend. The pedal stop, as 
distinguished fromthe“ manual” stop. The solo 
stop, the string stop, etc. 

Store (1 syl.). Store is no sore. 
Things stored up for future use are no 
evil. Sore means grief as wellas wound, 


our sorrow. 


Stork, a sacred bird, according to 
the Swedish legend received its name 
from flying round the cross of the cruci- 
fied Redeemer, crying Styrka! styrka! 
(Strengthen! strengthen!). (See Christ, 
in CHRISTIAN TRADITIONS.) 

Storks are the sworn foes of snakes. 
Hence the veneration in which they are 
held. They are also excellent scaven- 
gers. (Stork, Anglo-Saxon, sfoyc.) 

“ “Twill profit when the stork, sworn foe of snakes, 

Returns, to show compassion to thy plants.” 

Philips: Cyder, bk. i. 

Storks’ Law or Lex Ciconaria. A 
Roman law which obliged children to 
maintain their necessitous parents in old 
age, ‘‘in imitation of the stork.” Also 
called “ Antipelargia.’’ 


_Stormina Teapot. A mighty to-do 
about a trifle. ‘A storm in a puddle.”’ 


Storms. The inhabitants of Com- 
acchio, a town in Central Italy, between 
the two branches of the Po, rejoice ina 
storms. because then the fish are driven 
into their marshes. 

“ Whose townsmen loathe the lazy calm's repose, 

And pray that stormy waves may lash the 

heach.” Lose’s Orlando Furioso, ii. 41. 

Cape of Storms. So Bartholomew Diaz 

named the south cape of Africa in 1486, 


but King John II. changed it into the 
Cape of Good Hope. 


Stormy Petrel (4). 
bad augury. 

“Dr. von Esmarch is regarded at court as a 
stormy petrel, and every effort was made τὸ con- 
ceal his visit to the German emperor.’—Tie World, 
6th April, 1592, p. 15. 

Stornello Verses are those in which 
certain words are harped on and turned 
about and about. ‘They are common 
among the Tuscan peasants. The word 
is from lorna’re (to return). 

“I'll tell him the white, and the green,and the red, 

Mean our country has flung the vite yoke from 

her head ; 

Τ᾽] tell him the green,and the ved,and the white 

Would look well by his side as a sword-knot 50 

bright ; 

I'll tell him the red, and the white, and the green 

Is the prize that we play for, a prize we will 

win.” Notes und Queries. 

Stor'thing (pron. stor-ting). The 
Norwegian Parliament, elected every 
three years (Norse, stor, great; thiuvy, 
court.) 

Stovepipe Hat (4). 
hat (7.v.). 

“High collars, tight coats, and tight sleeves 
were worn at home and abroad, and, as though 
that were not enough,a stovepipe bat was worn.” 
—Illustrated Spurting und Drumatic News, Sep- 
tember, 1891. 

Stowe (1 syl.). The fair mastic 
paradise of Stowe (Thomson: Autwnn). 
The principal seat of the Duke of Buck- 


ingham. 


Stowe Nine Churches. A hamlet of 
Stowe, Northamptonshire. The tradi- 
tion is that the people of this hamlet 
wished to build a church, and made nine 
ineffectual efforts to do so, for every time 
the church was finished the devil came 
by night and knocked it down again. 


Stra’bo (JValafridus). A Germa 
monk, (807-849.) 


Stradivarius (4ifonio). A famous 
violin-maker, born at Cremo’na. Some 
of his instruments have fetched £400. 
(1670-1728.) (See CREMONAS.) 


Straight as an Arrow. 
SIMOLEs.) 

Strain (1 syl.). 70. strain courtesy. 
To stand upon ceremony. Here, strain 
is to stretch, as parchment is strained on 
a drum-head. When strain means to 
filter, the idea is pressing or squeezing 
through a canvas or woollen bag. 

Strain at agnat and swallow a camel, 
To make much fuss about little pec- 
cadillos, but commit offences of real 
magnitude. ‘Strain at” is strain out 
or off (Greek, di-ulizo). The allusion is 
to the practice of filtering wine for fear 


An ill omen ; a 


A chimney-pot 


(See 


Stralenheim 


of swallowing an insect, which was “ἢ un- 
clean.’’ Tyndale has ‘‘ strain out” in his 
version, Our expression ‘‘ strain at” 15 
a corruption of strain-ut, ‘ut’? being 
the Saxon form of out, retained in the 
words wt-most, utter, uttermost, ete. 

The quality of merey is not strained 
(Merchant of Venice, iv. 1)—constrained 
or forced, but cometh down freely as 
the rain, which is God's gift. 


Stral’enheim (Cownt of). A feudal 
baron who hunted Werner like a par- 
tridge in order to obtain his inheritance. 
Ulric, Werner’s son, saved him from 
the Oder, but subsequently murdered 
him. (Byron: Werner.) 


Strand (London). The bank of the 
Thames (Saxon for a beach or shore) ; 
whence stranded, run ashore or grounded. 


Strange (1 syl.). Latin, extra (with- 
out); whence extra’neus (one without) ; 
old French, estrange; Italian, strano, 
etc. Stranger, therefore, is exrtraneus, 
oue without. 


tranger of the Gate (Zi). 
wnicr PROSELYTE. ) 


Strangers Sacrificed. It is said 
that Busi'ris, King of Egypt, sacrificed 
to his gods all strangers that set foot on 
his territories. Diomed, King of Thrace, 
gave strangers to his horses for food. 
(See DIOMEDES.) 

“On fly. or here with strangers’ blood imbrued 

Bus'ris’ altars thou shalt find renewed : 

Amidst his slaughtered guests his altars stood 

Ovscene with gore, and baked with human 

blood.” Camoens: Lusiad, book ii. 

Strap Oil. A beating. A corrup- 
tion of strap ’eil, i.e. German ¢heil (a 
dole). The play is palpable. The 
‘* April fool”’ asks for a pennyworth of 
strap ’eil, that is dole of the strap, in 
French l’hwile de cotret. (Latin, stroppus.) 


Strappa'do. A military punishment 
formerly practised ; it consisted of pull- 
ing an offender to a beam and then let- 
ting him down suddenly ; by this means 
a limb was not unfrequently dislocated. 
(Italian, strappa're, to pull.) 

“Were I at the strappado or the rack, I'd give 
no man a reason on compulsion.’—Shukespeare : 
1 Henry IV., ii. 4. 

Strasburg Goose (4). A _ goose 
fattened, crammed, and confined in 
order to enlarge its liver. Metaphoric- 
ally, one crammed with instruction and 
kept from healthy exercise in order to 
pass examinations. 

“The anemic, myopic, worn-out creature who 


comes to [the army]—a new kind of Strasburg 
goose.” —Nineteenth Century, January, 1893, p. 26. 


(See 


1184 


Straw 


Strat’agem means generalship. 
(Greek, strate'gos, a general; stratos-ago, 
to lead an army.) 


Straw. Servants wishing to be hired 
used to go into the mirket-place of 
Carlisle (Carel) with a straw in their 
mouth. (See Mop.) 

“ At Carel I stuid wi’ a strae ii my mouth, 

The wey ves com roun’ me in custers ; 

‘What weage dus te ax, canny lad ?* says yen.” 
Anderson: Cumberland Ballads, 

Straw, chopped or otherwise, at a 
wedding, signifies that the bride is no 
virgin. Flowers indicate purity or vir- 
ginity, but straw is only the refuse from 
which corn has been alreadv taken. 

A little straw shows which way the 
wind blows, Mere trifles often indicate 
the coming on of momentous events. 
They are shadows cast before coming 
events, 

A man of straw. A man without 
means; a Mrs. Harris; a sham. In 
French, “Ἢ Un homme de paille,” like a 
malkin, (See MAN or STRAW.) 

1 have a straw to break with you. I 
am displeased with you; I have a re- 
proof to give you. In feudal times 
possession of a fief was conveyed by 
giving a straw to the new tenant. If 
the tenant misconducted himself, the 
lord dispossessed him by going to the 
threshold of his door and breaking a 
straw, saying as he did so, ‘* As I break 
this straw, so break I the contract made 
between us.’’ In allusion to this custom, 
it is said in Leynard the Foxr—‘ The 
kinge toke up a straw fro’ the ground, 
and pardoned and forguf the Foxe,”’ 
on condition that the Fox showed King 
Lion where the treasures were hid (ch. v.), 

In the straw. “ Etre en couche” (in 
bed). The phrase is applied to women 
in childbirth. The allusion is to the 
straw with which beds were at one time 
usually stuffed, and not to the litter laid 
before a house to break the noise of 
wheels passing by. The Dutch of Haar- 
lem and Enckhuysen, when a woman is 
confined, expose a pin-cushion at the 
street-door. If the babe is a boy, the — 
pin-cushion has a red fringe, if a gil a 
white one. 

Not to care a straw for one. In Latin, 
ἐς ΓΔ θη} nihili, flocei, nauci, pili, 
teruncit facére.”? To hold one in no 
esteem; to defy one as not worth your 
steel. 

Not worth a straw. Worthless. In 
French, ‘‘ Je n’en donnerais pas wi fetu 
(or wn zeste).”? Not worth a rap; not 
worth a pin’s point; not worth a fig 
(q.v.); not worth a twopenny dam, ete. 


-α....--.......οθο 


She wears a straw in her ear. She is 
looking out for another husband. This 
is a French expression, and refers to 
the ancient custom of placing a straw 
between the ears of horses for sale. 

The last straw. ‘The only hope left; 
the last penny. 

Tis the last straw that breaks the 
horse’s (or camel’s) back. In weighing 
articles, as salt, tea, sugar, ete., it is the 
last pinch which turns the scale; and 
there is an ultimate point of endurance 
beyond which calamity breaks a man 
down. 

To carry off the straw (‘ Enlever la 
paille’’). To bear off the belle. The 
pun is between ὁ" pal,’’ a slang word for 
a favourite, and ‘‘paille,’’ straw. The 
French palot means a ‘‘pal,’”? Thus 
Gervais says— 

*“ Mais, oncore un coup, man palot.” 
Le Coup αἰ Gil l’wrin, p. 64. _ 

To catch at a straw. Tohope a forlorn 
hope. A drowning man will catch at a 
straw. 

To inake bricks without straw. To 
attempt to do something without the 
proper and necessary materials. The 
allusion is to the exaction of the Egyp- 
tian taskmasters mentioned in Exodus 
v. 6-14. Even to the present, ‘‘ bricks ” 
in India, ete., are made of mud and 
straw dried in the sun. To make plum- 
puddings without plums. 

To stumble at a straw. ‘* Nodos in 
scirpo querére.”’ To look for knots in a 
bulrush (which has none), To stumble 
in a plain way. 

To throw straws against the wind. To 
contend uselessly and feebly against 
what is irresistible ; to sweep back the 
Atlantic with a besom. 


Strawberry means the straying 
plant that bears berries (Anglo-Saxon, 
streow berie). So called from its runners, 
which stray from the parent plant in all 
Cirections. 


Strawberry Preachers. So Lati- 
mer called the non-resident country 
clergy, because they strayed from their 
parishes, to which they returned only 
once a year. 
to stray.) 


Streak of Silver (Zhe). The British 
Channel. So called in the Edinburgh 
Review, October, 1870. 


Street and Walker (J/essys.). ‘‘In 
the employ of Messrs, Street and 
Walker.’’ Said of a person out of em- 
ployment. A gentleman without means, 


vp) 


(Anglo-Saxon, streowan, 


Strawberry 118 


5 Strike Sail 


---- 


whose employment is walking about the 
streets, 


Stretch’er. An exaggeration; a 
statement stretched out beyond the 
strict truth. Also a frame on which the 
sick or wounded are carried ; a frame on 
which painters’ canvas is stretched ; etc. 


Strike (4). A federation of workmen 
to quit work unless the masters will sub- 
mit to certain stated conditions. 170 
strike is to leave off work, as stated 
above. (Anglo-Saxon, stric-an, to go.) 

“Co-operation .... prevents strikes by .... 
identifying the interests of labour and capital.” 
R.T. Ely: Political Economy, part iv. chap. iy. 233. 

Strike (1 syl.). Strike, but hear me ! 
So said Themis'tocles with wonderful 
self-possession to Eurybi'ades, the Spar- 
tan general. The tale told by Plutarch 
is this: Themistocles strongly opposed 
the proposal of Eurybiades to quit the 
bay of Sal’amis. The hot-headed Spar- 
tan insultingly remarked that ‘‘ those 
who in the public games rise up before 
the proper signal are _ scourged.’’ 
‘“*True,’’ said Themistocles, ‘‘ but those 
who lag behind win no laurels.”? On 
this, Eurybiades lifted up his staff to 
strike him, when Themistocles earnestly 
but proudly exclaimed, “Strike, but 
hear me "ἢ 

To strike hands upon a bargain or strike 
a bargain. ‘To confirm it by shaking 
or striking hands, 

Strike Amain. Yield or suffer the 
consequences. The defiance of a man- 
of-war to a hostile ship. ‘To strike 
amain is to lower the topsail in token of 
submission. To wave a naked sword 
amain is a symbolical command to a 
hostile ship to lower her topsail. 


In Latin, 


Strike a Bargain (170). 


fudus ferwe; in Greek, horkia temein, 


The allusion is to the Greek and Roman 
custom of making sacrifice in concluding 
an agreement or bargain. After calling 
the gods to witness, they struck—z.e. 
slew—the victim which was offered in 
sacrifice. The modern English custom 
is simply to strike or shake hands. 


Strike Sail. To acknowledge one- 
self beaten ; to eat umble pie. A mari- 
time expression. When a ship in fight 
or on mecting another ship, lets down 
her topsails at least half-mast high, she 
is said to strike, meaning that she sub- 
mits or pays respect to the other. 

“Now Margaret 
Must strike her sail, and learn awhile to serve 


When kings command.” Lok δ’. 
Shalespeare ; 3 Henry VI, iii. 8. 


Strike 


1186 


Stump Orator 


Strike while the Iron is Hot. In 
French, ‘‘ 1d faut battre le fer pendant 
qwil est chaud.” Bither act while the im- 
pulse is still fervent, or do what you do 
at the right time. ‘The metaphor is 
taken froma blacksmith working a piece 
of iron, say ἃ horse-shoe, into shape. 
It must be struck while the iron is red- 
hot or it cannot be moulded into shape. 
Similar proverbs are: ‘*‘ Make hay whiie 
the sun shines,’’ ‘* Take time by the 
forelock.”’ 


String. Always harping on one string. 
Always talking on one subject ; always 
repeating the same thing. The allusion 
is to the ancient harpers; some, like 
Paganini, played on one string to show 
their skill, but more would have endorsed 
the Apothecary’sapology—“ My poverty, 
and not my will, consents.”’ 


Stripes. A tiger. In India a tiger 
is called Master Stripes. 


“Catch old Stripes come near my )ullock, if he 
thought a ‘shooting-iron’ was anywhere about. 
tven if there were another Stripes, he would not 
show himself that night.’ — Cornhill Magazine 
(My Tiger Watch), July, 1883. 


Strode. The babes of Strode are born 
aith tails. 


* As Becket, that good saint, sublisely rode, 

Thoughtless of insult, through the town of 
Strode, 

What did the mob? Attacked h’s horse’s rump 

And cut the tail, so flowing, to the stump. 

ee the saint? Quoth he, ‘ For this vile 
trick 

The town of Strode shall heartily he sick.” 

And lo! by power divine, a curse prevails— 

The babes of Strodeare horn with horse's tails.” 

Peter Pindar: Epistle tothe Pope. 


Stroke. The oarsman who sits on 


the bench next the coxswain, and sets 
the stroke of the oars. 


Stromkar}]. A Norwegian musical 
spirit. Arndt informs us that the 


Strémkarl has eleven different musical 
measures, to ten of which people may 
dance, but the eleventh belongs to the 
night-spirit, his host. If anyone plays 
it, tables and benches, cups and cans, old 
men and women, blind and lame, babies 
in their cradles, and the sick in their 
Leds, begin to dance. (Sve Fairy.) 


Strong—as iron, as a horse, as brandy, 
(See SIMILEs.) 


Strong-back. One of Fortunio’s 
servants. He was so strong he could 
carry any Weight upon his back without 


difficulty. (Grimms Goblins; For- 
tunio.) 

Strong-bow. Richard de Clare, 
Earl of Strigul. Justice of Ireland. 
(*-1176,) 


Stron'tian. This mineral receives 
its name from Strontian, in Argyleshire, 
where it was discovered by Dr. Hope, in 
1792. 

Struldbrugs. Wretched inhabitants 
of Lugenagg, an imaginary island a 
hundred leagues south-east of Japan. 
These human beings have the privilege 
of eternal life without those of immortal 
vigour, strength, and intellect. (Swift: 
Gulliver's Travels.) 

“Many persons think that the picture of the 
Stulbrugs (sic) Was intended to wean us froma 
love of life... but Iam certain that the dean 
never had any such thing in view.”"—Paley's 
Natural Theology (Lord Brougham's note, bk. i. 
p. 140). 

Stub’ble Geese, called in Devonshire 
Avish Geese. The geese turned into the 
stubble-fields or arrishers, to pick up the 
corn left after harvest. (See Earrna.) 


Stuck Pig. 70 stare like a stuck pig. 
A simile founded on actual observation. 
Of course, the stuck pig is the pig in the 
act of being killed. (See SrMILEs. ) 


Stuck Up. An Australian phrase for 
robbed on the highway. (See GONE UP.) 

Stuck-up People. Pretentious peo- 
ple; parvenus; nobodies who assume to 
be somebodies. The allusion is to birds, 
as the peacock, which sticks up its train 
to add to its ‘‘importance’’ and ‘awe 
down”’ antagonists. 


Stuck his Spoon in the Wall. 
Took up his residence. Sometimes it 
means took up his long home, or died. 
In primitive times a leather strap was 
very often nailed to the wall, somewhere 
near the fireplace, and in this strap were 
stuck such things as scissors, spoons for 
daily use, pen-case, and so on, In 
Barclay’s Ship of Fools is a picture of a 
man stirring a pot on the fire, and on 
the wall is a strap with two spoons stuck 
into it. 


Stuff Gown. An outer barrister, or 
one without the bar. (See BARRISTER.) 


Stumers, in the language of the turf, 
are fictitious bets recorded in the books 
of bookmakers, and published in the 
papers, to deceive the public by running 
up the odds on a horse which is not 
meant to win. 


Stump. 170 take to the stump. To 
roam about the country speechifying. 

To stump the country. To go from 
town to town making [political] speeches. 

“The Irish members have already taken to the 
stump.’”—A Daily Journal. 

Stump Gvrator (in America). A 
person who harangues the people from_ 


Stump Up 


the stump of a tree or other chance ele- 
vation ; a mob orator. 


Stump Up. Pa:y your reckoning ; pay 
what is due. Ready money is called 
stumpy or stumps. An Americanism, 
meaning money paid down on the spot — 
i.c. on the stump of a tree. (Sez NAIL.) 


Stumps. 70. stir one’s stumps. To 
get on faster; to set upon something 
expeditiously. The stumps properly are 
wooden legs fastened to stumps or muti- 
lated limbs. (Icelandic, stumypr.) 

“ This makes him stirre his stunips.” 
Tie Tuo Lancashire Lovers (1640). 

Stumped Ont. Onutwitted; put 
down. A term borrowed from the game 
of cricket. 

fore 


tupid Boy. St. Thomas Aqui’nas, 
nicknamed the Dremb Ox by his school- 
fellows. (1224-1274.) 


Sty or Stye. Christ styed up to 
heaven. Talliwell gives sty = a ladder, 
and the verb would be to go to heaven, 
as it were, by Jacob’s ladder. ‘The 
Anglo-Saxon verb s‘igaz means to 
ascend. 
©The beast ... 

Vhought with his wingcs to stye above the 

eround,” 
Spenser: Faérie Queene, bk. i. canto Xi. 25. 

Styg’ian (3 syl.). Infernal; pertain- 
ing to Styx, the fabled river of hell. 

“Ὁ At that so sudden blaze the Stygian throns 

Bent their aspect.” 
Milton : Tayadise Lost, x. 45%. 

Style (1 syl.) is from the Latin sty/is 
(an iron pencil for writing on waxen 
tablets, etce.). The characteristic of a 

erson’s writing is called his style. 

etaphorically it is applied to com- 
position and speech. Good writing is 
stylish, and, metaphorically, smartness 
of dress and deportment is so called. 

“Styleis the dress of thought,anda well-dressed 
thought, like a well-dressed man, appears to great 
advantage.’—Chesterfield: Letter ccxl. p. 361. 

Styles. Tom Styles οὐ John a Styles, 
connected with John οὐ Noakes in actions 
of ejectment. These mythical gentle- 
men, like John Doe and Richard Roe, 
are no longer employed. 

“ And, like blind Fortune, with a sleight 
Convey men’s interest and right 
From Stiles’s pocket into Nokes's.” 
Butler: Hudibras, iii. 3. 

Styli’tes or Pillar Saints. By far the 
most celebrated are Simeon the Stylite 
of Syria, and Daniel the Stylite of Con- 
stantinople. Simeon spent thirty-seven 
years on different pillars, each loftier 
and narrower than the preceding. The 
last was sixty-six feet high. He died in 
460, aged seventy-two. Daniel lived 


1187 


Sub-Lapsarian 


thirty-three years on a pillar, and was 
not unfrequently nearly blown from it 
by the storms from Thrace. He died in 
494. Tennyson has a poem on Simeon 
Stylites. 


ἜΤ Simeon of the Pillar by surname, 
Scylites among men—I, Simeon, 
Yhe watcher on the column till the end.” 
Tennyson. 


Styx. The river of Hate, called by 
Milton ‘‘abhorréd Styx, the flood of 
burning hate’? (Paradise Lost, i. 577). 
It was said to flow nine times round the 
infernal regions. (Greek, stug'eo, to 
hate.) 

* The Styx is a river of Egypt, and 
the tale is that Isis collected the varivuus 
parts of Osiris (murdered by Typhon) 
and buried them in secrecy ou the banks 
of the Styx. he classic fables about 
the Styx are obviously of Egyptian 
origin. Charon, as Diodorus informs us, 
isan Egyptian word for a “ἢ ferryman,”’ 
and styx means ‘‘ hate.” 

“The Thames reminded Lin 
Taine. 

Styx, the dread oath of gods. 

“ For by the black infernal Styx I swear 

(That dreadful oath which binds the Thunderer) 

"his fixed1” Pope: Thebais of Slautius, 1. 

Suaviter in Modo (Latin). An 
inoffensive manner of doing what is to 
be done. Suaviter in iodo, fortiter in 
ye, doing what is to be done with un- 
flinching firmness, but in the most in- 
offensive manner possible. 


Sub Cultro Liquit. He left me in 
the lurch, like a toad under the harrow, 
or an ox under the knife. 


Sub Hasta. By auction. When an 
auction took place among the Romans, it 
was customary to stick a spear in the 
ground to give notice of it to the public. 
In London we hang from the first-floor 
window a strip of bed-room carpet. 


Sub Jo’ve (Latin). Under Jove; in 
the open air. Jupiter is the deified per- 
sonification of the upper regions of the 
air, Juno of the lower regions, Neptune 
of the waters of the sea, Vesta of the 
earth, Ceres of the surface soil, Hades of 
the invisible or under-world. 


of £tyx.’—M. 


Sub-Lapsa rian, Supra-Lapsarian. 
The svb-lapsarian maintains that God 
devised His scheme of redemption after 
the ‘‘lapse’’ or fall of Adam, when He 
elected some to salvation and left others 
to run their course. The swpra-lapsarian 
maintains that all this was ordained by 
God from the foundation of the world, 
and therefore before the “ lapse”’ or fall 
of Adam, 


Sub Rosa 


Sub Rosa. (See Rose.) 


Sublime Port. Wine merchants say 
the port of 1820 is the true ‘‘ Sublime 
Port.’’ Of course, the play is on the 
Porta Sublima or Ottoman empire. 


- Sublime Porte (7c). The Ottoman 
empire. It is the French for Porta 
Sublima, the ‘‘lotty gate.’’ Constan- 
tinople has twelve gates, and near one 
of these gates is a building with a lofty 
gateway called ‘ Bab-i-humajun.”? In 
this building resides the vizier, in the 
same are the offices of ail the chief 
ministers of state, and thence all the 
imperial edicts are issued. The French 
phrase has been adopted, because at one 
time French was the language of Euro- 
pean diplomacy. 


Submerged (7/ic) or The Sub- 
merged Tenth. The proletariat, sunk 
or submerged in poverty; the gutter- 
class ; the waifs and strays of society. 

“All but the ‘submerged’ were hent upon 
merrymaking.’—Society, November 12th, 1895 p. 


1273. 

“Tf Mr. Booth has not inaugurated remedial 
work among the submerged tenth, he has cer- 
tainly set the fashion of writing and talking 
about them.’ — Newspaper paragraph, October 
13th, 1891. 

Submit means simply ‘‘to lower,” 
and the idea usually associated with the 
word is derived from a custom in gladia- 
torial sports: When a gladiator acknow- 
ledged himself vanquished he lowered 
(submitted) hisarms asa sign that he gaye 
in; it then rested with the spectators to 
let him go or put him to death. If they 
wished him to live they held their thumbs 
down, if to be put to death they held their 
thumbs wpewards. 


Subpee’na is a writ given to a man 
commanding him to appear in court, to 
bear witness or give evidence on a certain 
trial named in the writ. It is so called 
because the party summoned is bound to 
appear sub pena centum libro'rwn (under 
a penalty of £100). We have the verb 
to subpoena. 


Sub’sidy means literally a sediment ; 
that which is on the ground. It isa 
military term. In battle the Romans 
drew up their army in three divisions: 
first, the light-armed troops made the 
attack, and, if repulsed, the pike-men 
came up to their aid; if these two were 
beaten back, the swordsmen (prin'cipes) 
advanced ; and if they too were defeated, 
the reserve went forward. These last 
were called subsidies because they re- 
mained vesting on their left knee till their 
time of action. Metaphorically, money 


1188 ᾿ 


Sucre 


aid is called a subsidy. (Latin, subsideo, 
to subside.) 


Substitution of Service (7/c), in 
Ireland. Instead of serving a process 
personally, the name of the detaulter 
was posted on the walls of a Catholic 
chapel in the parish or barony, or in some 
other public place. 


Subtle Doctor. 


John Duns Scotus, 
one of the schoolmen. 


(1265-1308.) 


Subvolvans or Subvolva'ni. The 
antagonists of the Privolvans in Samuel 
Butler’s satirical poem called The Lle- 
phant in the Moon, 

“The gallant Subvolyani rally, 
And from their trenches make a sally.” 
Verse 83, elec. 

Succession Powder. The poison 
used by the Marquise de Brinvilliers in 
her poisonings, for the benefit of succes- 
sors. (See POISONERS.) 

Succinct means undergirded ; hence 
concise, terse. (Latin, swb-cinetis.) 


Succoth. The Jewish feast of taber- 
nacles or tents, which began on the 15th 
Tisri (September), and lasted eight days. 
It was kept in remembrance of the 
sojourn in the wilderness, and was a 
time of grand rejoicing. Those who 
kept it held in their hands sprigs of 
myrtle, palm-branches, and _ willow- 
twigs. The Pentateuch was read on the 
last eight days. 


Suck the Monkey. (Svc MonkKEY.) 


Sucking Young Patricians. ‘The 
younger sons of the aristocracy, who 
sponge on those in power to get places 
of profit and employment. 

Suckle. 70 suckle fools and chronicle 


small beer, Tago says women are of no 
use but to nurse children and keep the 


accounts of the household. (Shake- 
speare : Othello, ii. 1.) 
Sucre. Manger du sucre. Applause 


given by claqueurs to actors is called 
sucre (sugar), French actors and ac- 
tresses make a regular agreement with 
the manager for these hired applauders. 
While inferior artists are obliged to ac- 
cept a mere murmur of approval, others 
receive a ‘‘ salvo of bravos,’’ while those 
of the highest role demand a ‘‘ furore”’ 
or éclat de rire, according to their line 
of acting, whether tragedy or comedy. 
Sometimes the manager is bound to give 
actors ‘‘sugar to eat’? in the public 
journals, and the agreement is that the 
announcement of their name shall be 
preceded with the words ‘‘ celebrated,” 


Suds 


1189 


Summer 


“ admirable,’’ and so on. The following 
is part of the agreement of a French 
actor on renewing his engagement 
(1869) :—‘‘ Que cinquante claqueurs au 
moins feraient manger du sucre dés 
entrée en scene, et que l’actrice rivale 
serait privée de cet agrément. (See 
CLaAQveE.) 


Suds (J/rs.). 
a washwoman or laundress, 
the allusion is to soap-suds. 

To b2 in the suds—in ill-temper. Ac- 
cording to the song, ‘‘Ne’er a bit of 
comfort is upon a washing day,”’ all 
are put out of gear, and therefore out of 
temper. 

Suffolk. The folk south of Norfolk. 


Suffrage means primarily the hough 
or pastern of a horse; so called because 
it bends wider, and not over, like the 
knee-joint. When a horse is lying 
down and wants to rise on his legs, it is 
this joint which is brought into action ; 
and when the horse stands on his legs 
it is these ‘‘ankle-joints’’ which 
support him. Metaphorically, voters are 
the pastern joints of a candidate, where- 
by he is supported. 

A suffragan is a titular bishop who 
is appointed to assist a prelate; and in 
relation to an archbishop all bishops are 
suffragans. The archbishop is the horse, 
and the bishops are his pasterns. 


A facetious name for 
Of course, 


Sugar-candy. Rhyming slang for 
ἐς brandy.”’ 
Sugar-lip. Hafiz, the great Persian 


lyrist. (*-1389.) 


Sugar and Honey. Rhyming slang 
for! © y.”” (See CHtIvy.) 


money. 
= παι ο Words. Sweet, flattering 
ords. When sugar was first imported 
ante Europe it was a very great dainty. 
The coarse, vulgar idea now associated 
with it is from its being cheap and com- 
mon. 
Sui Gen’eris (Latin). Having a 
distinct character of its own; unlike 
anything else, 


Sui Juris. Of one’s own right; the 
state of being able to exercise one’s legal 
rights—i.e. freedom from legal dis- 
ability. 

Suicides were formerly buried igno- 
miniously on the high-road, with a stake 
thrust through their body, “and without 
Christian. rites. (Chambers Encyclo- 
eee Ix. p. 184, col. 1.) 


“ They buried Ben at four cross roads, 
With a stake in his inside.” 
Hood: Faithless Nelly Gray. 


Suisse. Tw fais suisse. You live 
alone; you are a misanthrope. Suisse 
means porter or door-keeper, hence 
“ Parley au Suisse’? (‘* Ask the porter,”’ or 
‘* Enquire at the porter’s lodge’’). The 
door-keeper lives in a lodge near the 
main entrance, and the solitariness of 
his position, cut off from the house and 
servants, gave rise to the phrase. At 
one time these porters were for the most 
part Swiss. 

Suit (1 syl.). 
follow the leader ; 
are taken as your exemplars. 
is from games of cards. 


Suit of Dittss (4). A suitof clothes 
in which coat, waistcoat, and trousers 
are all of one cloth. 


Sullt [starvation]. The knife which 
the goddess Hel (g.v.) is accustomed to 
use when she sits down to eat from her 
dish Hunger. 


Sultan of Persia. Mahmoud Gazni, 
founder of the Gaznivide dynasty, was 
the first to assume in Persia the title of 
Sultan (4.D. 999). 


Sultan’s Horse, Deadly (Tic). 


τε Byvzantians boast that on the clod 
W here once the Sultan’s horse hath trod 
Grows ne.ther grass, nor shrub, nor tree.* 
Swift: Pethox the Great. 
Sulta’na. A beautiful bird, allied to 
the moorhen, with blue feathers, show- 
ing beautiful metallic gloss, generally 
with red beak and legs. 


“Some parple-winged sultana.’ 
Moore: Paradise and ine Peri. 


To follow suit. To 
to do as those do who 
The term 


Summa Diligentia. On the top of a 
diligence. ‘‘Casar crossed the Alps 
‘summa diligentia.’’’ This is a famous 
schoolboy joke, and one of the best of 
the kind. 


Summer. The second or autumnal 
summer, said to last thirty days, begins 
about the time that the sun enters 
Scorpio (October 23rd). It is variously 
called— 

(1) St. Martin’s summer (L’é¢é de St. 
Martin). St. Martin’s Day is the 11th 
November. 

“Expect St. Martin's summer. halcyon days.” 

Shakespeare! 1 Henry VI, τ. 2. 

(2) All Saints’ summer (All Saints’ is 
the Ist November), or All Hallowen 
summer. 


“Then followed that beautiful season, 
Called by the pious Arcadian peasants the sum- 
mer Of All Saints.” 
Longfellow : Evangeline. 
“ Farewell, All Hallowen summer.” — Shake- 
speare: 1 Henry IV.,i. 2. 


Summer King 


1190 


Sun and Moon Falling 


(3) St. Luke’s little summer (St. Luke’s 
day is 18th October). 


Summer King (Ze). 
Spain, 

Summons. Peter and John de Car- 
vajal, being condemned to death on cir- 
cumstantial evidence, appealed without 
success to Ferdinand IV. of Spain. On 
their way to execution they declared 
their innocence, and summoned the king 
{5 appear before God within thirty days. 
Ferdinand was quite well on the thirtieth 
day, but was found dead in his bed next 
morning. (See WISHART.) 


Summum Bonum. ‘The chief excel- 
lence ; the highest attainable good. 

Socrates said knowledge is virtue, 
and ignorance is vice. 

ARISTOTLE said that happiness is the 
greatest good. 

BERNARD DE MANDEVILLE and HEtL- 
VETIUS contended that self-interest is the 
perfection of the ethical end. 

BrentTHAM and Mitt were for the 
greatest happiness of the greatest num- 
ber. 

HERBERT Spr>cenr places it in those 
actions which best tend to the survival 
of the individual and the race. 

LiToURNEAU places it in utilitarian- 
isi. 

Sumpter Horse or Mule. One that 
carries baggage. (Italian, soma,a burden. ) 
(See SomaGra.) 


Sumptuary Laws. Laws to limit 
the expenses of food and dress, or any 
luxury. The Romans had their sumptu- 
ary laws (leges sumptudrii). ~ Such laws 
have been enacted in many states at 
various times. Those of England were 
all repealed by 1 James L., ο. 25, 


Sun. Hebrew, Elohim (God) ; Greek, 
hehos (the sun); Breton, /eo/; Latin, 
sol; German, sonve; Anglo-Saxon, 
sunne. Asa deity, called Ado’nis by the 
Pheenicians, and Apollo by the Greeks 
and Romans. 

Sun. Harris, in his J/ermés, asserts 
that all nations ascribe to the sun a mas- 
culine and the moon a feminine gender. 
For confutatiou sce Moon. 

City of the Sun. Rhodes was so called 
because the sun was its tutelar deity. 
The Colossos of Rhodes was consecrated 
to the sun. On or Heliopolis, Egypt. 


Sun (Zhe), called in Celtic mytho!ogy 
Sunna (fem ), lives in constant dread of 
being devoured by the wolf Fenris. It 
is this contest with the wolf to which 
eclipses are due. According to this 


Amadeus of 


mythology, the sun has ἃ beautiful 
daughter who will one day reign in place 
of her mother, and the world will be 
wholly renovated. 

Horses of the Sun. 

Arva’kur, Aslo, and Alsvidur, 
dinavian mythology.) 

Bronté (thunder), Eo'os (day-break), 
Ethiops (flashing), Ethon (fiery), Eryth- 
reos (red-producers), Philoge’a (earth- 
loving), Pyr’ois (fiery). All of them 
‘‘breathe fire from their nostrils.” 
(Greek and Latin mythology.) 

The horses of Aurora are Abrax and 
Pha’‘eton. (See Horse.) 

More worship the rising than the set- 
ting sun, said Pompey; meaning that 
more persons pay honour to ascendant 
than to fallen greatness. The allusion is, 
of course, to the Persian fire-worshippers. 

Heaven cannot support tivo suns, nor 
earth two masters. So said Alexander 
the Great when Darius (before the battle 
of Arbe'la) sent to offer terms of peace. 
Beautifully imitated by Shakespeare :— 
“ Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere ; 

Nor can one England brook a double reign, 
Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.” 
1 Henry 1V., Vv. 4. 

Tlerve lies a she-sun, and ahe-moon there 
(Donne). Epithalamium on the marriage 
of Lady Elizabeth, daughter of James I., 
with Frederick, elector palatine. It was 
through this unfortunate princess, called 
“*Queen of Bohemia ”’ and ‘‘ Queen of 
Hearts,” that the family of Brunswick 
succeeded to the British throne. Some 
say that Lord Craven married (secretly) 
the ‘‘ fair widow.”’ 


(Sean- 


Sun-burst. The fanciful name given 
by the ancicnt Irish to their national 
banner. 

“Ὁ At once, lke a sun-burst, ber banner unfurled.” 
Thomas Moore: lrish Melodies, No. 6, 

Sun Inn. In compliment to the ill- 
omened House of York. The Sw Jnn, 
Westminster, is the badge of Richard II. 


Sun and Moon Falling. By the old 
heralds the arms of royal houses were 
not emblazoned by colours, but by sun, 
moon, and stars. Thus, instead of or 
(gold), a royal coat has the sux ; instead 
of argent (silver), the moon ; instead of 
the other five heraldic colours, one of the 
other five ancient planets. In connec- 
tion with this idea, read Matt. xxiv. 29: 
‘‘Immediately after the tribulation of 
those days shall the sw be darkened, 
and the moon shall not give her light, 
and the s/ays shall fall from heaven, and 
the powers of the heavens shall be 
shaken.’’ (See PLANETS.) 


Sun in one’s Eyes 


1191 


Superstition 


Sun in one’s Eyes (70 have the). To 
be tipsy. 

Sun of Righteousness. Jesus Christ. 
(Mal. iv. 3.) 


Sunday. Lunporiart battles fought on 
Sunday. Barnet, Bull Run, Carberry 
Hill, Friedland, Fuentes d’Onoro, Jar- 
nac, THE GLORIOUS First or JUNE (Lord 
Howe’s great victory), Killiecrankie, 
Kunersdorf, Leipsig, Lepanto, Lincoln, 
Newbury, RamiLiies, Ravenna, Saar- 
bruck (the ‘‘ baptism of fire’’), SEDAN, 
Seringapatam, Stony Creek, of the 
Thirty, ‘Toulouse, Towton, Vienna, 
Vimiera, WATERLOO, WORCESTER. 


Sunday Saint. One who observes 
the ordinances of religion, and goes to 
church on a Sunday, but is worldly, 
grasping, indifferently honest, and not 
**too moral”’ the following six days. 


Sundays. MWhen three Sundays come 
together. (See NEVER.) 

Sundew, the Droséra, which is from 
the Greek drosos, dew. So called from 
the dew-like drops which rest on the 
hairy fringes of the leaves. 

* By the lone fountain’s secret hed, 

Where buman footsteps rarely tread ; 
Mid the wild moor or silent glen, 
The sundew blooms unseen hy men, 
And, ere the summer's sun can rise, 
Drinks the pure water of the skies.” 

The Wild Garland. 

Sunflower (Z/ic). Clytie, a water- 
nymph, was in love with Apollo, but 
meeting no return, she died and was 
changed into a sunflower, which still 
turns to the sun through its daily course. 
“ The sunflower turns on the god, when he sets, 

The same look which she turned when he rose.” 


1. Moore: (Believe me if all those endearing 
young charms). 


*“T will not have the mad Clytie, 
Whose head is turned by the sun.’ 
Tood. 


" What we call a sunflower is the 
Tlelianthus, so called, not because it fol- 
lows the sun, but because it resembles a 
picture sun. A bed of these flowers will 
turn in every direction, regardless of the 
sun. The Turnsole is the Heliotropium, 
quite anotber order of plants. 


Sunna or Senna. The Oral Law, or 
the precepts of Mahomet not contained 
in the Koran, collected into a volume. 
Similar to the Jewish Mishna, which 
is the supplement of the Pentateuch. 
(Arabic, sia, custom, rule of conduct.) 


Sunnites (2 syl.). Orthodox Ma- 
hometans, who consider the Sunna or 
Oral Law as binding as the Koran. They 
wear white turbans, The heterodox 


Moslems are called Shiites or Shiahs 
(q.0.). 

Suo Jure (Latin). 
right. 

Suo Marte (Latin). By one’s own 
strength or personal exertions. 


Super, Supers. In theatrical par- 
lance, ὁ supers’? means supernumeraries, 
or persous employed to make up crowds, 
processions, daucing or singing choirs, 
messengers, etc., where little or no 
speaking is needed. 

Supercilious (5 syl.). Having an 
elevated eyebrow ; hence contemptuous, 
haughty. (Latin, swper-ciliuim.) 


Supernac’ulum. The very best wine. 
The word is Low Latin for ‘‘ upon the 
181]. meaning that the wine is so good 
the drinker leaves only enoughiu his glass 
to make a bead on his nail. The French 
say of first-class wine, ‘‘It is fit to 
make a ruby on the nail” (faire rudis 
sur Vongle), referrmg to the residue left 
which is only sufficient to make a singie 
drop on the nail. Tom Nash says, 
‘* After ἃ man has drunk his glass, it is 
usual, in the North, to turn the bottom 
of the cup upside down, and let a drop 
fall upon the thumb-nail. If the drop 
rolls off, the drinker is obliged to fill and 
drink again.”? Bishop Hall alludes to 
the same custom: ‘*The Duke Tenter- 
belly . exclaims . . . ‘ Let never 
this goodly-formed goblet of wine go 
jovially through me;’ and then he set 
it to his mouth, stole it off every drop, 
save a little remaimder, which he was by 
custom to set upon his thumb-nail and 
lick off.”’ 

ΓΕ ΤῚΝ here! the supernaculum ! twenty years 

Of ave, if “tis a day.” Lyron: Werner, i.1. 

Supernaculum. Entirely. To drink 
supernaculum is to leave no heel-taps ; 
to drink so as to leave just enough not 
to roll eff one’s thumb-nail if poured 
upon it, but only to remain there as a 
wine-bead, 


“This is after the fashion of Switzerland. Clear 
off neat, supernaculum.”’—Iubeleis: Gargantua 
and Pantagruel, Wk. 1. 5. 


« Their jests were supernaculum, 

J snatched the rubies from each thuinh, 

And in th’s crystal have them here. 

Perhaps you'll like it more than beer.” | 

King: Orpheus and Eurydice. 
Superstition. That which survives 

when its companions are dead. (Latin, 
supersto.) Those who escaped in battle 
were called superstifés. Superstition is 
religious credulity, or that religion which 
remains when real religion is dead. 


Paul said to the Athenians that he perceived 
they were “ too superstitious,”—Acts XY. 22. 


In one’s own 


Supped all his Porridge 


Supped all his Porridge (7716 has). 
Eaten his last meal; he is dead. 


Supper of Trimalchio (./). A 
supper for gourmands of the upper 
classes in the reign of Nero. It forms a 
section of Petronii Arbitri Satyricon. 


Supplica’tion. This word has 
greatly changed its original meaning. 
‘The Romans used it for a thanksgiving 
after a signal victory (Livy, iii, 63). 
(‘‘ His rebus gestis, supplicatio a senatu 
decreta est”? (Cesar: Bell. Gall., ii.).) 
The word means the act of folding the 
knees (sed-plico). We now use the word 
for begging or entreating something. 


oD t=] 

Sure as Demoivre. Abraham De- 
moivre, author of Zhe ) 
Chances, or Method of Calculating the 
Probabilities of Events at Play, was 
vroverbially accurate in his calculations. 
It was Pope who said, ‘‘Sure as De- 
moivre, without rule or line.’’ 

Sure as a gun, as fate, as death and 
taxes, etc. (See SIMILES.) 


“Surest Way to Peace is a con- 
stant Preparation for War.” Fox, 
afterwards Bishop of Hereford, to 
Henry VIII. (In Latin, ‘‘ Si vis pacem, 
para bellum.*’) 


Surety. One who takes the place of 
another, a substitute, a hostage. 


Surfeit Water. 
cure surfeits. 
_ Water that cures surfeits. A little cold dis- 
ied poppywater is the true surfeit water.’— 
ΙΝ 


Cordial water to 


Surgeon is the Greek form of the 
Latin word manufacturer. The former 
is cheir-ergein (to work with the hand), 
and the latter manu-facere (to do or 
make with the hand), 


Surloin of Beef. (Sve Srrrorn.) 


Surlyboy. (Irish, 
surley buie.) 


Yellow hair. 


Sur’name (2 syl.). The over-name; 
either the name written over the Chris- 
tian name, or given over and above it; 
an additional name. For a long time 
persons had no family name, but only 
one, and that a personal name. Sur- 
names are not traced farther back than 
the latter part of the tenth century. 

Surnames of places. 

ΤῊ ford,in ham, and ley, and ton, 
The most of English surnames run. 

Sur’plice (2 syl.). Over the fur robe. 
(Latin, swper-pellicium.) The clerical 
robe worn over the bachelor’s ordinary 


1192 


Doctrine of 


Swaddler 


dress, which was anciently made of 
sheepskin, The ancient Celts and 
Germans also wore a garment occasion- 
ally over their fur skins, 

Durandus says: “The garments of the Jewish 
priesthood were girt tight about them, to signify 
the bondage of the law; but the surplice of the 
Christian priest is loose, to signify the freedom of 
the gospel.” 

Surrey. Anglo-Saxon, Suth-rea (south 
of the river—i.e. the Thames), or Suth-rie 
(south kingdom). 

Saddle White Surrey for the field to- 
morrow (Shakespeare: Richard III.). 
Surrey is the Syrian horse, as Roan Bar- 
bary in Richard 11. is the Barbary horse 
or barb. (See Horse.) 

Surt or Surtur. The guardian of 
Muspelheim, who keeps watch day and 
night with a flamingsword. At the end 
of the world he will hurl fire from his 
hand and burn up both heaven and earth. 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Susan (S/.). The patron saint who 
saves from infamy and reproach. This 
is from her fiery trial recorded in the 
tale of Susannah and the Elders. 

~ This wife of Joiachim, being ac- 
cused of adultery, was condemned to 
death by the Jewish elders ; but Daniel 
proved her innocence, and turned the 
tables on her accusers, who were put to 
death instead. (The Apocrypha.) 


Sussex. The territory of the South 
Saxons (Suth-Seare). 

Sutor. Ne sutor, ete. (See COBBLER.) 

Stick to the cow. Boswell, one night 
sitting in the pit of Covent Garden 
theatre with his friend Dr. Blair, gave 
an extempore imitation of a cow, which 
the house applauded. He then ventured 
another imitation, but failed, whereupon 
the doctor advised him in future to 
ΚΕ stick to the cow.” 


Suttee (Indian). A pure and model 
wife (Sanskrit, sa¢ti, chaste, pure); a 
widow who immolates herself on the 
funeral pile of her deceased husband. 
Abolished by law in British India. 


Svalin. The dashboard placed by 
the gods before the sun-car to prevent 
the earth from being burnt up. The 
word means ‘‘ cooling.”” (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

Swaddler. A contemptuous syno- 
nym for Protestant used by the Roman 
Catholics. Cardinal Cullen, in 1869, 
gave notice that he would deprive of 
the sacrament all parents who sent their 
children to be taught in mixed Model 


Swag 


schools, where they were associated 
with ‘‘ Presbyterians, Socinians, Arians, 
and Swaddlers.”’ (See Zimes, Septem- 
ber 4, 1869.) 

The origin of the term is as follows :— 

ΚΕ ΤΟ happened that Cennick, preach- 
ing on Christmas Day, took for his text 
these words from St. Luke’s Gospel: 
‘And this shall be a sign unto you; ye 
shall find the babe wrapped in swad- 
dling clothes lying in a manger.’ A 
Catholic who was present, and to whom 
the language of Scripture was a novelty, 
thought this so ridiculous that he called 
the preacher a swaddler in derision, and 
this unmeaning word became a nick- 
name for ‘ Protestant,’ and had all the 
effect of the most opprobrious appella- 
tion.” (Southey : Life of Wesley, τι. 153.) 


Swag. Luggage, knapsack, a bundle ; 
also food carried about one. Swag-shop, 
a store of minor, or cheap-priced goods, 
(Scotch, sweq.) 

“TPalliser] began to retrace the way by which 
he had fled, and, descending carefully to the spot 
where he had thrown off his swag, found it as 
he had left it.’—Watson: The Web of the Spider, 
chap. y. 

Swag. Plenty. Rhyming slang: A 
bag-full means plenty, and by omitting 
full, ‘‘ bag’? remains to rhyme with 
swag. (See CHIvyY.) 

Swagger. Bluster; noisy boasting. 

Swainmote. (See SWANIMOTE.) 


Swallow. According to Scandina- 
vian tradition, this bird hovered over 
the cross of our Lord, crying ‘‘ Sra/a! 
svala!’’? (Console! console!) whence it 
was called svalow (the bird of consola- 
tion). (See CHRISTIAN TRADITIONS.) 

The swallow is said to bring home 
from the sea-shore a stone which gives 
sight to her fledglings, 

Seeking with eager eyes that wondrous stone 
which the swallow 
Brings from the shore of the sea to restore the 
sight of its fledglings.” 
Longfellow: Evangeline, part i. 

It is lucky for a swailow to build about 
one’s house. This is a Roman supersti- 
tion. /élian says that the swallow was 
sacred to the Pena’tés or household gods, 
and therefore to injure one would be to 
bring wrath upon your own house. 

It is unlucky to kill a swallow. 

“Perhaps you failed in your foreseeing skill, 
For swallows are unlucky birds to kill.” 
Dryden: Hind and Panther, part iil. 

One swallow does not make spring. You 
are not to suppose winter is past because 
you have seen a swallow; nor that the 
troubles of life are over because you 
have surmounted one difficulty, 


1193 


Swan of Avon 


Swan. Fionnua’la, daughter of Lir; 
was transformed into a swan, and con- 
demned to wander for many hundred 
years over the lakes and rivers of Ire- 
Jand till the introduction of Christianity 
into that island. T. Moore has a poem 
entitled The Song of Fionnualz. (Irish 
Melodies, No. 11.) 

The male swan is called a cob, the 
female a pen ; a young swan is called a 
cygnet. 

Swan, Erman says of the Cygnus olor, 
“‘This bird, when wounded, pours forth 
its last breath in notes most beautifully 
elear and loud.”’ (Travels in Siberia, 
translated by Cooley, vol, ii.) 

Emilia says, ‘‘I will play the swan, 
and die in music.”? (Othello, v. 2.) 

“* What is that, mother?’ ‘The swan, my love. 
He is floating down to his native grove... 
Death darkens his eyesand unplumes his wings, 
Yet the sweetest song is the last he sings. 
Live so, my son, that when death shall come, 


Swan-like and sweet, it may waft thee home.” 
Dr. αἰ. Doane. 


Swan. Mr. Nicol says of the Cygnus 
mu'sicus that its note resembles the tones 
of a violin, though somewhat higher, 
Each note occurs after a long interval. 
The music presages a thaw in Iceland, 
and hence one of its great charms. 

Swan. A nickname for a blackamoor. 
(See Lucus ἃ Non LUCENDO.) 

“ Ethiopem yoca’mus cygnum.” 
Juvenal, viii. 32. 

A black swan. A curiosity, a rara 
avis. The expression is borrowed from 
the well known verse—‘‘ Rava avis in 
terris, nigroque simillima eycno.”’ 

“*What! is it my rara avis, my black swan ?’’’— 
Sir Walter Scott: The Antiquary. 

Swan. Swan, a public-house sign, like 
the peacock and pheasant, was an emblem 
of the parade of chivalry. Every knight 
chose one of these birds, which was 
associated in his oath with God, the 
Virgin, or his lady-love. Hence their 
use as public-house signs. 

The White Swan, a public-house sign, 
is in compliment to Anne of Cleves, 
descended from the Knight of the Swan. 

Swan with Two Necks. A corrup- 
tion of ‘‘ Swan with Two Nicks.’’ The 
Vintners’ Company mark their swans 
with two nicks in the beak. 

N.B. Royal swans are marked with 
five nicks—two lengthwise, and three 
across the bill. 


Swan-hopping. A corruption of 
Swan Upping—that is, taking the swans 
up the River Thames for the purpose of 
marking them. (Sce above.) 


Swan of Avon (Z/ic), or Sweet 
Swan of Avon, Shakespeare is so 


Swan of Cambray 


called by Ben Jouson because his home 
was on the Avon. (1564-1616.) 


Swan of Cambray (Z/ic). Fénelon, 
Archbishop of Cambray, and author of 
Telemachus. (1601-1719.) 


Swan of Mantua (7c), or The 
Mantuan Swan. Virgil, who was born 
at Mantua. (B.c, 70-29.) 


Swan of Meander (7/-). Homer, 
who lived on the banks of the Meander, 
in Asia Minor. (Fl. B.c, 950.) 


Swan of Padua (16). Count Fran- 
cesco Algarotti. (1712-1764.) 


Swans... Geese. A// your swans 
are geese. All your fine promises or expec- 
tations have proved fallacious. ‘* Hope 
told a flattering tale.’? The converse, 
All your geese ave swans, means all your 
children are paragons, and whatever 
you do is in your own eyes superlative 
work, 


Swan’‘imote. A court held thrice a 
year before forest verderers by the stew- 
ard of the court. So called because the 
swans or swains were the jurymen. 
(Swans, sivains, or siveins, freeholders ; 
Anglo-Saxon, swan or sivein, a herds- 
man, shepherd, youth; our swan.) 

* This court was incident to a forest, 
as the court of pie-powder or piepoudre 
to a fair. 


Swarga. The paradise of Indra, and 
also of certain deified mortals, who rest 
there under the shade of the five won- 
derful trees, drink the nectar of immor- 
tality called Am’rita, and dance with the 
heavenly nymphs. 


Swashbuckler. A ruffian; a swag- 
gerer. ‘‘ From swashing,”’ says Fuller, 
‘‘and making a noise on the buckler.” 
The sword-players used to ‘‘ swash”’ or 
tap their shield, as fencers tap their foot 
upon the ground when they attack. 
(Worthies of England.) (a.D. 1662.) 
(Sve SWINGE-BUCKLER. ) 

“ A bravo, a swashbuckler, one that for mone 
and good checere will follow any man to defend 
him; but if any diner come, he runs away the 
fi st, and leaves him in the lurch.“—Florio. 

Swear now means to take an oath, 
but the primitive sense is merely to ares 
or afirm; when to affirm on oath was 
meant, the word oath was appended, as 
‘“‘T swear by oath.” Shakespeare uses 
the word frequently in its primitive 
sense ; thus Othello says of Desdemona— 
“She swore, in faith, twas strange, ‘twas passing 

strange.” Othello, i, 3. 

Swear Black is White (Zo). To 

swear to any falsehood, 


1194 


= ———— 


Swear by my Sword (J/auilet, i. 5) 
—that is, ‘‘ by the cross on the hilt of 
my sword.’? Again in Winter's Tale, 
‘* Swear by this sword thou wilt perform 
my bidding” (ii. 3). Holinshed says, 
εὐ Warwick kisses the cross of King Ed- 
ward’s sword, as it were a vow to his 
promise ;”’ and Decker says, ‘‘ He has 
sworn to me on the cross of his pure 
Tole’do” (Old Fortunatus). 


Sweat. 170 sweat a client. 
him bleed; to fleece him. 

To sweat coin. To subtract part of 
the silver or gold by friction, but not to 
such an amount as to render the coin 
useless as a legal tender. The French 
use suver in the same sense, as ** Sver sou 
argent,” to sweat his money by usury. 
‘© Vous faites suer le bonhomme—tel est 
rotre dire quand vous le pillez.’? (Ha- 
rangue du Capitaine la Carbonnade.) 
(1615.) 


Sweating Sickness appeared in 
England about a century and a_ half 
after the Black Death. (1485.) It broke 
out amongst the soldiers of Richmond's 
army, after the battle of Bosworth Field, 
and lasted five weeks. It was a vio- 
lent inflammatory fever, without boils 
or ulcers. Betwebn 1485 and 1529 there 
were five outbreaks of this pest in Eng- 
land, the first four being confined to 
England and France; but the fifth spread 
over Germany, Turkey, and Austria. 


To make 


Swedenbor’gians, called by them- 
selves ‘tthe New Jerusalem Chureh”’ 
(Rev. xxi. 2). Believers in the doctrines 
taught by Emanuel Swedenborg (1688- 
1772). Their views of salvation, inspi- 
ration of Scripture, and a future state, 
differ widely from those of other Chris- 
tians; and as to the Trinity, they 
believe it to be centred in the person 
of Jesus Christ (Col. ii. 9). (Supplied by 
the Auxiliary New Church Missionary 
Society.) 


Swedish Nightingale. Jenny 
Liud (Madame Goldschmidt), a native 
of Stockholm, and previous to her mar- 
riage a public singer. (1821-1586.) 


Sweep. To sweep the threshold. To 
announce to all the world that the 
woman of the house is paramount. 
When the procession called “ὁ Skim- 
mington’’ passed any house where the 
woman was dominaut, each one gave 
the threshold a sweep with a broom or 
bunch of twigs. (Sve SKIMMINGTON.) 


Sweepstakes (4). A race in which 
stakes are made by the owners of horses 


1195 


Swithin 


engaged, to be awarded to the winner 
or other horse in the race. In all sweep- 
stakes entrance money has to be paid to 
therace fund, (See PLATE, SELLING-RACE, 
Hanpicap, WEIGHT-FOR-AGE RACE.) 

Tf the horse runs, the full stake must be paid; 
but if it is withdrawn, a forfeit only is imposed. 

Also a gambling arrangement by 

which the successful bettor sweeps up or 
carries off all the other stakes. It is 
sometimes applied to a game of cards in 
which one of the players may win all the 
tricks or all the stakes. 


Sweet assugar. (“ce SMILES.) 


Sweet Singer of Israel, 
David (B.c. 1074-1001). 


Sweet Singers. A puritanical sect 
in the reicn of Charles II., etc., common 
in Edinburgh. They burnt all story- 
books, ballads, romances, etc., denounced 
all unchaste words and actions, and even 
the printed Bible. 


Sweet Veices. Backers, votes. Corio- 
lanus speaks with contempt of the sweet 
voices of the Roman mob voters, 


King 


Sweethoar:. A lover, male or female. 


Swell Mob. The better-dressed 
thieves and pickpockets. <A ‘‘ swell’? is 
a person showily dressed; one who putts 
himself out beyond his proper dimen- 
sions, like the frog in the fable, 


Swi Dynasty. The twelfth Im- 
pevial dynasty of China, founded hy 
Yang-kien, Prince of Swi, A.p. 587. He 
assumed the name of Wen-tee (King 
Wen). 


Swift as lightning, as the wind, as an 
arrow, etc. (Sze SIMILES.) 


Swim (1) the). In society. The 
upper crust of society. An angler’s 
phrase, A lot of fish gathered together 
is called a swim, and when an angler can 
pitch his hook in such a place he is said 
to be “ἴῃ a good swim.”’ To know per- 
sons in the swim is to know society folk, 
who always congregate together. 

“Cottontree, who knows nearly everybody in 
the swim of European society ... informs him 
that Lucy Annerley is the daughter of Sir Jonas 
Stevens.’—A. C. Gunter: Mr. Potter of Texas, book 
iii. chap. xiy. 

Swindle. To cheat; from the Ger- 
man schicindeln, to totter. It origin- 
ally meant those artifices employed by a 
tradesman to prop up his credit when 
it began to totter, in order to prevent or 
defer bankruptcy. 


Swine. Boar or brawn, the sire; 
sow, the dam ; sucklings, the new-born 


pigs. A castrated boar-pig is called a 
hog or shot. Young pigs tor the butcher 
are called porker's. 

A sow-pig after her first litter be- 
comes a byo0d-sow, and her whole stock 
of pigs cast at a birth is called a lifter or 
Surrow of pigs. 

Swing (Captain). The name assumed 
by certain persous who sent threatening 
letters to those who used threshing 
machines. (1830-1833.) ‘The tenor of 
these letters was as follows :—‘‘ Sir, if 
you do not lay by your threshing 
machine, you will hear from Swing.”’ 

“Excesses of the Luddites and Swing.”"—The 
Times. 

Swinge-buckler. A _ roisterer, a 
rake. ‘The continuation of Svow’s An: 
vals tells us that the ‘* blades” of 
London used to assemble in West Smith- 
field with sword and buckler, in the 
reign of Queen Elizabeth, on high days 
and holidays, for mock fights called 
“pragging”’ fights. They swashed and 
swinged their bucklers with much show 
of fury, ‘‘but seldome was any man 
hurt.”’ (See SWASHBUCKLER.) 

“There was I, and little Jolin Doit of Stafford- 
shire,and black George Barnes,and Francis Pick- 
bone, and Will Squele. a Cotswold man ; you hag 
not four such swinge-bucklers in all the Inns-of- 
court ; and, I may say to you, we knew where the 
hona-robas were.’—Shakespeare: 2 Henry IV., 
lil. 2. 

Swiss. The nickname of a Swiss is 
“¢ Colin Tampon ”’ (q7.v.). 

No money, no Swiss—i e. no servant, 
The Swiss have ever been the mercen- 
aries of Europe —willing to serve anyone 
for pay. The same was said of the 
ancient Ca‘rians. In the hotels of Paris 
this notice is common: ὁ“ Demandez [or 
Parlez\ au Suisse”? (Speak to the porter), 


Swiss Boy (7Zie). 
cheles. 


Swiss Family Robinson. An 
abridged translation of a German tale by 
Joachim Heinrich Kampe, tutor to Baron 
Humboldt. 


Swithin (S/.). Jf it rains on δ΄. 
Swithin’s day (ld5th July), there will be 
rain for forty days. (See GERVAIS.) 

“ St. Swithin’s day, gif ye do rain, for forty days 
it will remain ; 

St. Swithin’s day, an_ye be fair, for forty days 

"twill rain nae mair.” 

The French have two similar pro- 
verbs—** S’i/ pleut le jour de St. ἡ] αν" 
(8th June), “εἰ pleut quarante jours plus 
tard; and ““ S’id pleut le jour de St. 
Gervais” (19th June), ‘‘ tl pleut quarante 
jours apres.” ; ; 

The legend is that St. Swithin, Bishop 
of Winchester, who died 862, desired to 


Music by Mos- 


Switzers 


1196 


Sword-makers 


be buried in the churech-yard of the 
minster, that the “ sweet rain of heaven 
might fall upon his grave.’’ At canoni- 
sation the monks thought to honour 
the saint by removing his body into 
the choir, and fixed July 15th for the 
ceremony; but it rained day after day 
for forty days, so that the monks saw 
the saints were averse to their project, 
and wisely abandoned it. 

The St. Swithin of Scotland is St. 
Martin of Bouillons. The rainy saint in 
Flanders is St. Godelitve ; in Germany, 
the Seven Sleepers. 


Switzers. Swiss mercenaries, The 
king in /lamiet says, ‘‘Where are my 
Switzers? Let them guard the door”’ 
(iv. 5). 


Sword. 
swords. 

(1) AGRICANE’s was called Tyanch’‘era. 
Afterwards BRaNDEMART'S. 

(2) Α΄ sword was Zu/figar. 

(3) AnTONY’s was Philippan, so named 
from the battleof Philippi. (Shakespeare: 
Antony and Cleopatra, ir. 4.) 

(4) ARTEGAL’S was called Chrysa‘or. 
(Spenser : Faérie Queene.) 

(5) ArtHUR’s was called E£scalibar, 
Exealibar, or Caliburn ; given to him by 
the Lady of the Lake. 

(6) Str Bevis’s oF Hamproun was 
called Morglay. 

(7) Brrerour’s was called Schrit. 

(8) Braccapocuio’s was called Sang- 
lamore. (Kaérie Queene.) 

(9) Casar’s was called Crocea Mors 
(yellow death). (See Commentaries, 
bk. iv. 4.) : 

“Erat nomen gladio ‘Crocéa Mors, qua nullus 
evadebat vivus qui eo vulnerabatur.”—Geoffrey of 
Monmouth, iv. 4. 

(10) CHARLEMAGNE’S were Joyeuse or 
Fusherta Joyo'sa, and Flamberge; both 
made by Galas. 

(11) ‘THe Crn’s was called Co/a'da ; the 
sword Zizo'na was taken by him from 
King Buear, 

(12) CLrosamont’s was called Haute- 
claire, made by Galas. 

(13) Drierricn’s was Nagelring. 

(14) Dooxry’s oF MAYENCE was called 
Merveilleuse (wonderful). 

(15) Ecx’s was called Sacho. 

(16) EDWARD THE CONFESSOR’S was 
called Curta’na (the cutter), a blunt 
sword of state carried before the sove- 
reigns of England at their coronation, 
emblematical of mercy. 

(17) EnGiisn Kryes’ (the ancient) was 
called Curta’na. 


Owners’ names for their 


(18) Frrrutor’s was called Angurva'« 
del (stream of anguish). 

(19) Haco I.’s or Norway was called 
Quern-biter (foot-breadth). 

(20) Hieme’s was called Blutgang. 

(21) Hi~pEBRAND’s was Brinnig. 

(22) Inrne’s was called Waské. 

(23) Kon, THE THRALLS, Greysteel. 

(24) LauncELOT OF THE Lakx’s, 
Ar'oundight. 

(25) Manomet’s were called Dhw ἢ 
Fakar (the trenchant), a scimitar; Al 
Battar (the beater) ; Medham (the keen) ; 
Halef (the deadly). 

(26) Mavers’s or MALaGcici's was 
called Ilamberge or Ficherge. We gave 
it to his cousin Rinaldo, It was made 
by Wieland. 

(27) OcrEer THE Danr’s, Comrtain and 
Sauvagine, both made by Munifican. 

“ He (Ogier) drew Courtain, his sword, out of its 
sheath."—Murris: Earthly Paradise, @A. 

(28) Oxrver’s was Hante-Claire. 

(29) Orntanpo’s was called Durinda'ua 
or Durindan, which once belonged to 
Hector, and is said to be still preserved 
at Rocamadour, in France. 

(30) OTUEL’s was Corrougue (2 syl.). 

(31) Rryarpo’s was called Fusherta or 
Flamberge (2 syl.). (See above, Mauets.) 

(32) Rocrro’s was called Balisarda. 
It was made by a sorceress. 

(33) Rotann’s was called Durandal, 
made by Munifican. ‘Tiis is the French 
version of Orlando and Duvandana. 

(34) StEGFRIED’S was called Balmung, 
in the Nibelungen-Lied. It was made 
by Wieland. Also Gram. Mimung was 
lent to him by Wittich. 

(35) StvrraM’s was called [Velsung. 

(36) STRONG-1’-THE-ARM’s, Paptisin, 
Florence, and Graban, by Ansias. 

(37) THoRALF SKOLINSON’s—i.e. Tho- 
ralf the Strong, of Norway—was called 
Quern-biter (foot-breadth). 

(38) Wretanp. The swords made by 
the divine blacksmith were [Vamberge 
and Balmung. 


Sword-makers. 

ANSTAS, GALAS, and MUNIFICAN made 
three swords each, and each sword took 
three years a-making. 

Awnsras. The three swords made by 
this cutler were Baptism, Florence, and 
Graban, all made for Strong-i’-the- 
Arm. 

Gatas. The three swords made by 
this cutler were Flamberge (2 syl.) and 
Joyeuse for Charlemagne ; and Hazite- 
claire for Closamont. 

Mountirican. The three swords made 
by this cutler were Durandal, for Roland; 


Sword-makers 


1197 


Sword (phrases) 


Sauvagine and Courtain for Ogier the 
Dane. 


WIELAND (‘the divine blacksmith ’’) 
also made two famous swords—viz. 


Flamberge, for Maugis; and Balmung, 
for Siegfried. 


N.B. Oliver’s sword, called Glorious, 
hacked all the nine swords of Ansias, 
Galas, and Munifican ‘‘a foot from the 
pommel.” (Croquemitaine.) 


An alphabetical list of the famous 
swords :— 

Al Battar (the beater), one of Mahomet’s 
swords, 

Angurva (stream of anguish), Frithiof'’s sword. 

Ar’oundight(? Aron-diht), the sword of Launce- 
lot of the Lake. 

Balisarda, Rogero's sword, made by a sorceress. 

Balmung, one of the swords of Siegfried, made 
by Wieland, “ the divine blacksmith.” 

Baptism,one of the swords of Strong-i’-the-Arm, 
which took Ansias three years to make. 

Blutgang (blood-fetcher), Hieme’s sword. 

Brinnig (flaming), Hildebrand’s sword. 

Caliburn, Arthur's sword. 

Chrysaor (sword of gold, i.e.as good as gold). 
Artegal’s sword. 

Colada, the Cid’s sword. 

Corrougue, Otuel’s sword. 

Courtam (the short sword),one of the swords of 
Ogier the Dane, which took Munifican three years 
to make, 

Crocea Mors (yellow death), Caesar's sword. 

Curtana (? the short sword). (See Edward the 
Confessor and English kings.) 

Diw 1 Fukdér (the trenchant), Mahomet’s scimi- 
tar. 

Durandal, same as Durandan. Roland's sword, 
which took Munifican three years to make. 

Durandan or Durandana (the inflexible), Or- 
lando’s sword. 

Escalibar or Exrcalibar, the sword of King 
Arthur. (Ex cal{cejliber(are), to liberate from the 
stone.) (See below, SWORD EXCALIBAR.) 

Flamberge or Floberge (2 syl., the flame-cutter), 
one of Charlemagne’s swords, and also the sword 
of Rinaldo, which touk Gallas three years to 
make. 

Flumborae, the sword of Maugis or Malagigi, 
made by Wieland, “ the divine blacksmith.” 

Florence, one of the swords of Strong-i-the-Arm, 
which took Ansias three years to make. 

ee Joyésa, another name for Joyeuse 


q.v.). 

Glorious, Oliver’s sword, which hacked to pieces 
ihe nine swords made by Ansias, Galas,and Mun- 
ifican. 

Graban (the graye-digger), one of the swords of 
Strong-i'-the-Arm, which touk Ansias three years 
to make, 

Gram (grief), one of the swords of Siegfried. 

Greysteel, the sword of Koll the Thrall 

Haute-claire (2 syl., very bright), both Closa- 
mont’s and Oliver’sswords were so called. Closa- 
mont’s sword took Gallas three years to make. 

Halef (the deadly), one of Mabomet’s swords. 

Joyeuse (2 syl., joyous), one of Charlemagne’s 
swords, which took Gallas three years to make. 

Mandousian swords (q.v.). 

Medham (the keen), one of Mahomet's swords. 

Merveilleuse (the marvellous), Doolin’s swerd. 

Mimung, the sword that Wittich lent Siezfried. 

Morglay, i.e. mor-glaif (big glaive), Sir Bevis’s 
sword. 

Nagelring (nail-ring), Dietrich’s sword. 

Philippan. The sword of Antony, one of the 
triunivirs. 

Quern-biter (a foot-breadth), both Haco I, and 
Thoralf Skolinson had a sword so called. 

Sacho, Eck’s sword. : 

Samsamha Haroun-al-Raschid’s sword. 

Sanglamore (the big hloody glaive), Braggado- 
chio’s sword, 

Sauvagine 3 syl., the relentless), one of the 


swords of Ogier the Dane, which took Munifican 
three years to make. 4 

Schrit or Schritt (? the lopper), Biterolf's sword. 
Ξ Tizona (the poker), King Bucar’s sword. (See 

ID.) 

Tranchéra (the trenchant), Agricane’s sword. 

Waske(2 sy|.), Iring’s sword. | 

Welsung, both Dietlieb and Sintram had a sword 
so called. 

Zuflagar, Ali’s sword. 


Sword Excalibar (7/ic). At the 
death of Uter Pendragon there were 
many claimants to the crown; they 
were all ordered to assemble in Δ the 
great church of London,’’ on Christmas 
Eve, and found a sword stuck in a stone 
and anvil with this inscription: ‘‘ He 
who can draw forth this sword, the same 
is to beking.’? The knights tried to pull 
it out, but were unable. Oneday, when 
a tournament was held, young Arthur 
wanted a sword and took this one, not 
knowing it was a charmed instrument, 
whereupon he was universally acknow- 
ledged to be the God-elected king. This 
was the sword of Excalibar. (History 
of Prince Arthur, i. 3.) 

The enchanted sword (in Amadis of 
Gaul). Whoever drew this sword from 
a rock was to gain access to a subter- 
ranean treasure. (Cap. cxxx. See also” 
caps. Ixxii. and xcix.) 


Sword of God (7%). Khaled Ibn al 
Waled was so called for his prowess at 
the battle of Muta. 


Sword of Rome (712). Marcellus, 
who opposed Hannibal. (B.c. 216-214.) 


Sword of the Spirit (712). The 
Word of God (Eph. vi. 17). 


“| Sword (phrases and proverbs). 


At swords’ point. In deadly hostility, 
ready to fight each other with swords. 

Poke not fire with a sword. This was 
a precept of Pythagoras, meaning add 
not fuel to fire, or do not irritate an 
angry man by sharp words which will 
only increase hisrage. (See Jamblichus: 
Protreptics, symbol ix. ) 

To put to the sword. Toslay. 

Your tongue is a double-edged sword. 
You first say one thing and then the 
contrary ; your argument cuts both ways. 
The allusion is to the double-edged sword 
out of the mouth of the Son of Man—one 
edge to condemn, and the other to save. 
(Rev. i. 16.) 

Yours is a Delphic sword—it cuts both 
ways. Erasmus says a Delphic sword is 
that which accommodates itself to the 
pro or con. of asubject. The reference 
is to the double meanings of the Delphic 
oracles, called in Greek Delphiké mach- 
αἴγα. 


Sword and Cloak 


1193 


Sylvester 


Sword and Cloak Plays. So Cal- 
deron called topical or modern comedies, 
because the actors wore cloaks and 
swords (worn by gentlemen of the 
period) instead of heraldic, antique, or 
dr2matico-historie dresses, worn in 
tragedy. 


Swords Prohibited. Gaming ran 
high at Bath, and frequently led to dis- 
putes and resort to the sword, then 
generally carried by well-dressed men. 
Swords were therefore prohibited by 
Nash in the public rooms; still they 
weve worn in the streets, when Nash, in 
consequence of a duel fought by torch- 
light by two notorious gamesters, made 
the rule absolute—‘‘'That no swords 
should on any account be worn in Bath.” 


Sworn Brothers, ‘“‘in the Old 
English law, were persons who by 
mutual oath covenunted to share each 
other’s fortune.”” (Burvrill.) 


Sworn at Highgate. 
GATE.) 

Sybarite (3 syl.). A self-indulgent 
person ; a wanton. The inhabitants of 
Syb‘aris, in South Italy, were proverbial 
for their luxurious living and self- 
indulgence. A tale is told by Seneca 
of a Sybarite who complained that he 
could not rest comfortably at night, and 
being asked why, replied, ‘‘ He founda 
rose-leaf doubled under him, and it hurt 
him.’? (Sve RIPAILLE.) 


“Allis calm as would deligut the heart 
Of Sy barite of old.” 
Thomson: Custle of TIndovence, canto i. 


Sybarite. The Sybarites taught their 
horses to dance to the sound of a pipe. 
When the Crotonians marched against 
Sybaris they began to play on their 
pipes, whereupon all the Sybarite horses 
drawn out in array before the town 
began to dance; disorder soon prevailed 
in the ranks, and the victory was quick 
and easy. 


Sycamore and Sycomore. Syca- 
more is the plane-tree of the maple 
family (Acer pseudo-platénus, or greater 
maple), The sycomore is the Egyptian 
fig-tree (Greek, swkomoros, sukos, a tig). 
The tree into which Zaccheus climbed 
(Luke xix. 4) to see Christ pass is 
wrongly called a sycamore or maple, as 
it was the sycomore or wild fig. The 
French have translated the word cor- 
rectly-—“* [17] montait sur un sycomore 
pour le voir,”’ 

Syc’ophant, from the Greek sm/o- 


phantés, “ fig-blabbers.’”? The men of 
Athens passed a law forbidding the 


(Sve Hicu- 


exportation of figs ; the law was little 
more than a dead letter, but there were 
always found mean fellows who, for 
their own private ends, impeached those 
who violated it ; hence sycophant came 
to signify first a government toady, and 
then a toady generally. 

“T here use ‘sycophant’ in its original sense,as 
a wretch who flatters the prevailing party by in- 
forming against his neighbours, under pretence 
thut they are exporters of prohibited tigs.”—Cole- 
ridye: Biography, Vol. lil. clap. X. p. 285. 

Syc’orax. A witch, whose son was 
Caliban, (Shakespeare : The Tempest.) 


Sye’nite. A granite so called from 
Syene, in Egypt, its great quarry. 


Syl/logism. The five hexameter 
verses which contain the symbolic names 
of all the different syllogistic figures are 
as follow :— 

“ Barbara, Celarent, Darii, Ferd jue. prigris. 
Cesare, Camestres, Festind, Βα οὔ, secundar. 
Tertia, Darapti, D.samis, Datisi, Felapton, 
Bokardd, Fei isd9, hubet. Quarta insuper addit 
Bramantip.Caméavs, Dimaris, Fesapo, Fresison.” 


N.B. The vowel 
A universal affirmative. 
F universal negative. 
I particular affirmative. 
O particular negative. 
Taking the first line as the standard, 
the initial letters of all the words below 
it show to which standard the syllogism 
is to be reduced ; thus, Ba1dko is to be 
reduced to ‘‘ Barbara,’’ Cesiire to ‘‘ Cela- 
rent,’’ and so on. 


Sytphs, according to Middle Age 
belief, are the elemental spirits of air; 
so named by the Rosicrucians and Cabal- 
ists, from the Greek si/p)é (a butterfly 
or moth). (Se GNOMES.) 

Sylphs. Any mortal who has ‘pre- 
served inviolate chastity may enjoy in- 
timate familiarity with these gentle 
spirits. All coquettes at death become 
sylphs, ‘‘and sport and flutter in the 


fields of air.”’ 
“ Whoever, fair and chas‘e, 


Rejects mankind, is by some syTph embraced.” 
Pope: Rupe of the Lock, 1. 

Sylvam Lignum Ferre (/”). To 
carry coals to Newcastle. The French 
say, ‘Porter de Veau a la riviere.” To do 
a work of supererogation ; to paint the 
lily, or add another perfume to the 
violet, or perform any other superfluous 
or ridiculous excess, 


Sylvester (S/.). The pope who con- 
verted Constantine the Great and his 
mother by ‘ the miracle of restoring to 
life a dead ox.’’ The ox was killed by a 
magician for a trial of skill, and he who 
restored it to life was to be accounted 
the servant of the true God, This tale 


Sylvius Bonus 


‘ 1199 


Symbols of Saints 


is manifestly an imitation of the Bible 
story of Elijah and the prophets of Baal, 
(L Kings xviii.) 

Syl vius Bo’nus. Supposed to be 
Coil the Good, a contemporary of Auso’- 
nius, who often mentions him; but not 
even the titles of his works are known 
He was a British writer. 


Symbol originally meant the corre- 
ponding part of a tally, ticket, or coin 
cutin twain, The person who presented 
the piece which fitted showed a 
“symbol”? of his right to what he 
claimed. (Greek, si ballo, to put or 
cast together.) 


Symbols of Saints. 


SAINTS. SYMBOLS. 
Agatha Carrying her breastsin a dish. 
Ayuthon A book and crozier. 
Aques A Jum at her side. 


A palm branch, 

A saltire cross. 

A book in her hand. 

A tan cross, with a bell at the 
end, anda pig by his side. 

A tooth and palm branch. She 
isapplied to by those who 
suffer from toothache. 

Asaph and sudan A crozier. 

Barbora -- A book and palm branch, 

Barnabas - -. A staff in one hand and an 
open book in the other ; or 
a rake, 

Aknife ; ora processional cross. 


Anitsta’ sia 
Andrew 
Anne 
Authony 


Apoll./nia -. 


Bartholomew 


Liaise δὲ Jron combs, with which his 
body was torn to pieces. 
Bridget A crozier and book. 


An inyerted sword, or large 
wheel. 

Paying on a harp or organ. 

antic figure carrying 
Christ over a river. 

A palm branch. 

A papal crown, or an anchor. 
He was drowned with an 
anchor tied round his neck; 
also a pot. 


Two shoemakers at work. 


St. Oshald’s head in his hand. 

A leek, in commemoration of 
lis victory over the Saxons. 

Holding his mitred head in 
his band. 

Dorothy .. +» Carrying a basket of fruit. 

Βασαν the Crowned with a nimbus, and 
Confessor ay holding a sceptre. 

Elizaveth -- St. John and the lamb at her 


futherine «- 


Cecilia δ 
Christopher + A 


Clare 
Cremeit 


Crispin and 

Crispian 
Cuthbert 
David 


Denys ate 


feet. 
Faith ὡ- -- A gridiron, 
Felix Ἵ »» Ananchor. 


Fiower .. Her head in her hand, and a 
flower sprouting out of her 


neck. 


Francis A seraph inflicting the five 
wounds of Christ ; or a lily 
ona trampled globe. 

Fyacre Arrayed in a long robe, pray- 
ing and holding his beads 
in one hand. 

Gabriel 3 - A flower-pot full of lilies he- 
tween him and the Virgin. 

George Mounted on horseback, and 
transfixing a dragon. 

Giles oe A hind, with its head in the 


saint's lap, 

The monogram 1.H.S. on the 
breast or in the sky, circled 
Withaglory. Fairhold says 
the mystery of the Trinity 

‘ was thus revealed to him. 

James the A pilgrim’s staff ; or a seallop 
Greater } ἊΣ shelL 


Tynatius .- εἰς 


SYMBOLS. : 
-A fuller’s pole. He was killed 
by Simon the fuller. 

A camel-hair garment, small 
rude cross, and a lamb at 
his feet. 

John Evangelist-. A chalice, out of which a 
dragon or serpent is issuing, 
and an open book; or a 
young man with an eagle 
in the background. (Ezekiel 


SAINTS. 
James the Less 


John Baptist 


Vii. 1-10.) 

Jerome Ae -- A bine hat, and studying a 
large folio volume, 

Jude.. as εὐ Withaclub or lance. 

Julian .. Ferrying travellers across a 
streain. 


Lawrence 
Louis 


A book and gridiron. 

A king kneeling, with the 
arms of France at his feet 
a bishop blessing him, and 
a dove descending on his 
head. 

Loy -- os -. Acroz.er and hammer. He is 
the patron saint of smiths. 

With a short staff in her hand, 
and tbe devil behind her ; 
or with eyes ina dish. (see 
Lucy.) 

Sitting at a reading-desk, he- 
neath which appears an ox’s 


Lucy 


Luke 


head; or pictorially engaged 
upon a Bambino. (Ezekiel 
Vii. 1-10.) 


Margaret .. Treading on a dragon, or 


piercing it with the cross. 


Mark A ian seated writing, with a 
lion couchant at his feet. 
Martin a +» On horseback, dividing his 


cloak witha beggar behind 
him on foot. 

Carrying the child Jesus,anda 
lily is somewhere displayed. 

A box of ointment. 

With a balberd, with which 

Nadabar killed him. As an 
evangelist, he holds a pen. 
with which he is writing on 
ascroll. The most ancient 
svimbol is a man's face. 
(Ezekiel vii. 1-10.) 

Michael.» εὐ In armour, with a cross, or 
else holding scales, in which 
he is weighing souls. 

A tub with naked infants in 
it. He is patron saint of 
children, 

A sword and a book. 
as a Roman. 

Teter ee -- Keys and a triple cross ; or a 

fish ; or a cock. 

Philip A jpastoral staff, surmounted 
with a cross. He was hung 
on a tall pillar. 

Roche “- -. A wallet, and a dog witha loaf 
in its mouth sitting by. He 
shows a boil in his thigh. 

Bound to a tree, his arms tied 
behind him, ‘and his hody 
transfixed with arrows. Two 
archers stand by his side; 
sometimes presenting a 
sheaf of arrows to the Lord, 

A saw, because he was sawn 
asander. 

A book anda stone in his hand. 

The devil holding her hand, 
and tempting her. 


Mary the Virgn.. 


Mary ἈΓΟΘ ΘΙ 
Matthew = 


Nicholas 


Paul.. Dressed 


Sebastian .. 


Simon ee 


Stephen 
Theodora -- 


Theodore Armed with a halberd in his 
hand, and with a sabre by 
his side. 

Thomas With a builder’s rule, or a 


stone in his hand, or holding 
the lance with which he 
was slain at Meliapour. 

Kneeling, and a man hebind 

* him striking at him with a 
sword, 

A book and arrows, She was 
shot through with arrows 
by the Prince of the Huns. 

(See APOSTLES, EVANGELISTS, etc.) 


Thomas of Can- } 
terbury ᾿ 


Ursula: 


Symbolism of Colours 1 


Symbols of other sacred characters, 


Abraham «+ An old man grasping a knife, 
ready to strike his Son Isaac, 
who is bound on an altar, 
An angel arrests his hand, 
anda ram 18 Caught in the 
thicket. 


David Kneeling, above is an angel 
With a sword. Sometimes 
he is represented playing a 
harp. 

Esau With bow and arrows, going 
To meet Jdacoh. 

Job Sitting naked on the ground, 
with three fricucs talking 
to him. Ὶ 

Joseph Conversing with his brothers. 


Benjamin is represented as 
a mere boy. 

Vith a money bag. In the 
last supper le has knocked 
over the salt with his right 
elbow, 


Judas [scur.o: .. 


Judith With Holofernes’ head in one 
hand, and a sabre in the 
other. 

Noah Is represented as looking out 


of the ark window at a dove, 
which is flying to the ark, 
olive branch in its beak. 

Is represented as arrayed ina 
rich tunic and crowned. A 
harp is placed behind him. 

Is represented in royal robes, 
standing under an arch, 


King Saul.. 
Sulumon 


Symbolism of Colours, whether 
displayed in dresses, the background 
of pictures, or otherwise : 

Black typifies grief, death. 

Biue, hope, love of divine works; (in 
dresses) divine contemplation, piety, sin- 
cerity. 

Pale blue, peace, Christian prudence, 
love of good works, a serene conscience. 

Gold, glory and power. 

Green, faith, gladness, immortality, 
the resurrection of the just ; (in dresses) 
the gladness of the faithful. 

Pale green, baptism. 

Grey, tribulation. 

Purple, justice, royalty. 

Red, martyrdom for faith, charity ; (in 
dresses) divine love. 

Rose-colour, martyrdom. Innocent ITI. 
says of martyrs and apostles, ‘‘ Hi et ili 
sunt flores rosarun et lilia convallium.”’ 
(De Sacr. alto Myst., 1. 64.) 

Saffron, confessors. 

Scarlet, the fervour and glory of wit- 
nesses to the Church. 

Silver, chastity and purity. 

Violet, penitence. 

White, purity, temperance, innocence, 
chastity, faith; (in dresses) innocence 
and purity. 


Symbolism of Metals and Gems. 
Amethyst typifies humility. 

Diamond, invulnerable faith. 

Gold, glory, power. 

Sardonyx, sincerity, 

Sapphire, hope. 

Stlver, chastity, purity. 


00 Tabard 


Syrens of the Ditch. Frogs. So 


called by Tasso. 


Syr’ia, says Richardson, derives its 
name from Swi (a delicate rose) ; hence 
Suvistan (the land of roses). The Jews 
called Syria Avram. 


Syrtis. A quicksand. Applied es- 
pecially toa part of the African coast. 
(Greek syrtis.) 


τῇ 

T, in music, stands for 7 μέλ (all), 
meaning all the instruments or voices 
are to join, It is the opposite of S for 
Solo. 

-t- inserted with a double hyphen 
between a verb ending with a vowel and 
the pronouns ¢//e, i/, or on, is called “Ὁ 
epheleystic,’? as, ame-t-il, dire-t-on. 
(See N, Marks IN GRAMMA4R.) 

Marked with ὦ 7. Criminals con- 
victed of felony, and admitted to the 
benefit of clergy, were branded on the 
brawn of the thumb with the letter T 
(thief). The law was abolished by 7 
and 8 George IV., c. 27. 

It fits toa T, Exactly. The allusicn 
is to work that mechanics square with 
a T-rule, especially useful in making 
right angles, and in obtaining perpen- 
diculars on paper or wood. 

The saintly T’s. Sin Tander, Sin 
Tantony, Sin Tawdry, Sin Tausin, Sin 
Tedmund, and Sin Telders; otherwise 
St. Andrew, St. Anthony, St. Audry, St. 
Austin [Augustine], St. Edmund, and 
St. Ethelred. Tooley is St. Olaf. 


T.Y.C., in the language of horse- 
racing, means the Two- Year-Old Course 
scurries. Under six furlongs. 


T-Rule (4). <A ruler shaped like a 
Greek T. (See above.) 


Tab. An old Tab. An old maid; 
an old tabby or cat. So called because 
old maids usually make a cat their com- 
panion. 


Tab/ard. The Zalard, in Southwark, 
is where Chaucer supposes his pilgrims 
to have assembled. ‘The tabard was a 
jacket without sleeves, whole before, 
open on both sides, with a square collar, 
winged at the shoulder like a cape, and 
worn by military nobles over their 
armour. It was generally emblazoned 
with heraldic devices. Heralds still wear 
a tabard. 


“Ttem...achascun ung grand tabart 
De cordelier, jusques aux pieds.” Ὁ 
Le Petit Tesiament de Maistre Frangois Villon 


Tabardar 


1201 


Tabouret 


Tab’ardar. A sizar of Queen’s Col- 
lege, Oxford. So called because his 
gown has tabard sleeves—that is, loose 
sleeves, terminating a little below the 
elbow in a point. 


Tab’arin. Π|ε᾽5 a Tabarin—a merry 
Andrew. Tabarin was the fellow of 
Mondor, a famous vendor of quack 
medicines in the reign of Charles IX. 
By his antics and coarse wit he collected 
great crowds, and both he and _ his 
master grew rich. Tabarin bought a 
handsome chateau in Dauphiné, but the 
ee ΟΌΣΒΟΥ out of jealousy murdered 
1im, 


Tabby, a cat, so called because the 
brindlings of the tabby were thought to 
resemble the waterings of the silk of the 
name. (French, tadis; Italian, etc., 
tubi; Persian, retabi, a rich figured silk.) 

“ Demurest of the tabby kind, 
The pensive Selima reclined.” Gay. 

Tabla Rasa (Latin). A clean slate 
on which anything can be written. 

“When a girl has been taught to keep her mind 
a tublu rasa till she comes to years of discretion, 
she will be more free to act on her own natural 
lmpulses.”"—W. S. 2. 

Table. <Apcellés’ table. A pictured 
table, representing the excellency of 
sobriety on one side, and the deformity 
of intemperance on the other. 

Tables of Celés. Cebes was a Theban 
philosopher, a disciple of Socrates, and 
one of the interlocutors of Plato’s 
Phedo. His Tables or Tableau supposes 
him to be placed before a tableau or 
panorama representing the life of man, 
which the philosopher describes with 
great accuracy of judgment and splend- 
our of sentiment. This tableau is some- 
times appended to Lpiciétus. 

Table of Pythag'oras. The common 
multiplication table, carried up to ten. 
The table is parcelled off into a hundred 
little squares or cells. (See TaBUL®.) 

Knights of the Round Table. A mili- 
tary order instituted by Arthur, the 
“first king of the Britons,’’ a.p. 416. 
Some say they were twenty-four in 
number, some make the number as high 
as 150, and others reduce the number to 
twelve. They were all seated at a 
round table, that no one might claim a 
post of honour. 

The Twelve Tables. The tables of the 
Roman laws engraved on brass, brought 
from Athens to Rome by the decemvirs. 

Turning the tables. Rebutting a 
charge by bringing forth a counter- 
charge. Thus, if a husband accuses 
his wife of extravagance in dress, she 


76 


“turns the tables upon him”? by accus- 
ing him of extravagance in his club. 
The Romans prided themselves on their 
tables made of citron wood from Mau- 
rita’nia, inlaid with ivory, and sold at a 
most extravagant price—some equal to 
a senator’s income. When the gentle- 
men accused the ladies of extravagance, 
the ladies retorted by reminding the 
gentlemen of what they spent in tables. 
Pliny calls this taste of the Romans 
mensa' rum msania, 

It is also used for “audi alteram 
partem,” and the allusion is then slightly 
modified—‘‘ We have considered the 
wife’s extravagance ; let us now look to 
the husband’s,”’ 

“We will now turn the tables, and show the 
hexameters in all their vigour.’—The Ties. 

Table d@’Hote [the host's table]. An 
ordinary. In the Middle Ages, and even 
down to the reign of Louis XIV., the 
landlord’s table was the only public 
dining-place known in Germany and 
France. The first restaurant was opeued 
in Paris during the reign of the Grand 
Monarque, and was a great success. 


Table Money. Money appropriated 
to the purposes of hospitality. 


Table-Turning. The presumed art 
of turning tables without the applica- 
tion of mechanical force. Said by some 
to be the work of departed spirits, and 
by others to be due to a force akin to 
mesmerism. Jackson Davis (the Seer of 
Poughkeepsie), a cobbler, professed, in 
1848, to hear ‘‘ spirit voices in the air.”’ 
(See SPIRITUALISM.) 


Tableaux Vivants (French, Uring 
pictures). Representations of statuary 
groups by living persons, invented by 
Madame Genlis while she had charge of 
the children of the Duc d’Orléans. 


Tabooed. Devoted. Forbidden. This 
is a Polynesian term, and means conse- 
crated or set apart. Like the Greek 
anathema, the Latin sacer, the French 
sacre, ete., the word has a double mean- 
ing—one to consecrate, and one to incur 
the penalty of violating the consecra- 
tion. (Sve Tapu.) 


Taborites (3 syl.). A sect of Hus- 
sites in Bohemia. So called from the 
fortress Tabor, about fifty miles from 
Prague, from which Nicholas von Hussi- 
neez, one of the founders, expelled the 
Imperial army. They are now inccr- 
porated with the Bohemian Brethren. 


Tabouret. 
the presence of the queen. 


The right of sitting in 
In the 


Tabule Toletance 1 


Taghairm 


ancient French court certain ladies had 
the droit de taboureé (right of sitting on a 
tabouret in.the presence of the queen). 
At first if was limited to princesses ; 
but eubsoduen yy it was extended to all 
the chief ladies of the queen’s house- 
hold; and later still the wives of am- 
bassadors, dukes, lord chancellor, and 
keeper of the seals, enjoyed the privi- 
lege. Gentlemen similarly privileged 
had the droit de fauteuil. 


© Qi me resisterait 
La marquise a le tubouret. 
Beraunger : Le Marguis de amar 


Tab'ule Toleta’nz. The astro- 
nomical tables composed by order of 
Alphonso X. of Castile, in the middle of 
the thirteenth century, were so called 
because they were adapted to the city of 
Tole’do, 

“His Tables Tolletanes forth he brought, 

Ful wel corrected, ne ther lakked nouzht.” 
Chaucer : Canterbury Tules, 11,585. 

Ta'ce (2 syl.). Latin for candle. Si- 
lence is most discreet. ὕπο is Latin for 
‘be silent,” and candle is symbolical of 
light.” The phrase means ‘‘keep it 
dark,’ do not throw light upon it, 
Felling, in his Amelia (chap. X.), says, 
ἐς Tace, madam, is Latin for candle.”’ 
There is an historical allusion worth re- 
membering. It was customary at one 
time to express disapprobation of a play 
or actor by throwing a candle on the 
stage, and when this was done the cur- 
tain was immediately drawn down. 


Oultor (vol. 1. p. 6), in his History cf 


the Theatres of London, gives us an in- 
stance of this which occurred January 
25th, 1772, at Covent Garden theatre, 
when the piece before the public was 41 
Hour Before Marriage. Someone threw 
a candle on the stage, and the curtain 
was dropped at once. 


“There are some auld stories that cannot be 
ripped upagain with entire sifety toall concerned. 
Tace is Latin for candle.’—Sir W. Scott: Redquunt- 


let, chap. xi. (Sir Walter is rather fond of the 
purase.) 

“Mun, William, mum. Titce is Latin for 
eindle.’— VW. B. Yeats: Fairy Tales of the Irish 


Peasantry, p. 250. 

N.B. We have several of these old 
purases ; one of the best is, ‘* Brandy is 
Latin for goose”’ (q.v.). 


Tache’brune (2 syl.). The horse 
of Ogier le Dane. The word means 
ἐν brown- -spot.’’ (Sve Horse.) 


Tenia Rationis. Show of argument. 
Argument which seems prima facie 
plausible and specious, but has no real 
depth or value. 

“Mr. Spencer is again afflicted with his old 
coaipls nt tenia rationis, and takes big words for 


real things.*°—#ra Olla: Mr, Spencer's First 
Principles. 


Taeé’-pings. Chinese rebels. The 
word means Universal Peace, and arose 
thus: Hung-sew-tseuen, a man of hum- 
ble birth, and an unsuccessful candidate 
for a government office, was induced by 
some missionary tracts to renounce idol- 
atry, and found the society of Tat-ping, 
which came into collision with the im- 
perial authorities in 1850. Tung now 
gave out that he was the chosen instru- 
meut in God’s hands to uproot idolatry 
and establish the dynasty of Universal 
Peace; he assumed the title of Taé- 
ping-wang (Prince of Universal Peace), 
and called his five chief officers princes, 
Nankin was made their capital in 1860, 
but Colonel Gordon (cal'ed Chinese Gor- 
don) in 1864 quelled the insurrection, 
and overthrew the armies of Hung. 


Taf fata or Taffety. A fabric made 
of silk; at one time it was watered ; 
hence Taylor says, “No taffaty more 
changeable than they.”’ ‘* Notre mot 

taffeta est Jorié, par onomatopée, εἶνε bruit 
que fuit cette étoffe.” (Francisque- 
Michel.) 

τ The fabric has often changed its character, 
At one time it was ΕΚ and linen, at another silk 
and wool. In the cizhteenth century if was lus- 
trous silk, sometimes striped with gold. 

Taffata phrases. Smooth sleek phrases, 
euphemisms. We also use the words 
fustian, stuff, silken, shoddy, buckram, 
velvet, satin, lutestring, etc., ete., to 
qualify phr: ises and literary compositions 
spoken or written. 

“ Taffata phrases, silken terms 1 recis®, 

Three-piled byperboles.” 
Shakespeare: Love's Labour's Lost, v. 2 

Taffy. A Welshman. So called from 
David, a very common Weish name. 
David, familiarly Davy, becomes in 
Welsh Taffid, Taffy. 


Tag Rag, and Bobtail. The vi/yis 
ignobilé. A **tag’’ is adoe in the second 
year of her age; a ‘‘rag,”’ a herd of 
deer at rutting time ; ““bobtail,” a fawn 
just weaned. 

** According to Halliwell, a sheep of 
the first year is called a tag. ‘Tag is 
sometimes written shag. 


“Tt will swallow us all up, sh'ps and wen, shag, 
rag,and bobtail.”—Rabelais: Pantagruel, iv. £3. 


Tag’hairm (2 syl.). A means em- 
ployed hy the Scotch mm inquirmg into 
futurity. A person wrapped up im the 


hide of a fresh-slain bullock was placed 
beside a waterfall, or at the foot of a 
precipice, and there left to meditate on 
the question propounded. Whatever his 
fancy suggested to him in this wild 


Taherites 1: 


Take in Tow 


situation passed for the inspirat-on of 
his disembodied spirit. 
“Last evening 
Brian an augury hath tr 
Of that kind which must hot be 
Unless in dread extremity, 
The Tagbairm called.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Lady of the Lake, iv. 4. 
Ta‘herites (9 syl.). A dynasty of 
five kings who reigned i in Khorassan for 
fifty- two years (8: 20-872). So called 
from the founder, Tahér, general of the 
Calif’s army. 


Tail. Lion’s tail. Lions, according 
to legend, wipe out their footsteps with 
their | tail, that they may not be tracked. 

Twisting the lion’s tail. (See Twist- 
ING.) 

He has no more tail than a Manx eat. 
There isa breed of cats in the Isle of Man 
without tails. 


Tails. The men of Kent are born 
with tails, as a punishment for the 
murder of Thomas a Becket. (Lambert: 
Peranb.) (See the Spectator, 173.) 


“ For Becket” 
“Andrew Marvel. 


Tails. It is said that the Ghilane 
race, which number between 30,000 and 
40,0U0, and dwell “ἢ far beyond the Sen- 
naar,’’? have tails three or four inches 
Jong. Colonel du Corret tells us he care- 
fully examined one of this race named 
Bellal, the slave of an emir in Mecca, 
whose house he frequented. 
Wonders, p. 206.) 

The Niam-niams of Africa are tailed, 
so we are told. 


Tails. The Chinese men were made 
to shave their heads and wear a queue or 
we by the Manchu Tartars, who, in the 

eventeenth century, subdued the coun- 
ph and compelled the men to adopt the 
Manchu dress. The women were allowed 
to compress their feet as before, although 
the custom is uot adopted by the 
‘Tartars. 

2 “Anglieus a tergo caudam gerit” 
probably refers to the pigtails once 
worn. 


Tailors. The three tailors of Tool2y 
Street. Canning says that three tailors 
ot Tooley Street, Southwark, addressed 
a petition of grievances to the House of 
Commons, beginning —** We, the people 
ot England.”’ (Sze V AUGHAN. ) 

Nine tailors mahkea man, The present 
scope of this expression is that a tailor 
is so much more feeble than another 
mau that it would take nine of them 
to make a man of average stature and 
strength. There is a tradition that an 


ssake, Kent always shall baye tris.” 


(World cf 


Suisait mort, 


orphan lad, in 1742, applied to a fashioz- 
able London tale for alms. Thera 
were nine journeymen in the es‘ablish- 
ment, each of whom contributed some- 
thing to set the little orphan up with a 
fruit barrow. The little merchant in 
time became rich, and adopted for his 
motto, ‘‘ Nine tailors made me a man,’’ 
or ** Nine tailors make a man.”’? This 
certainly is not the origin of the ex- 
pression, inasmuch as we find a similar 

one used by Taylor a century before that 
date, aud referred to as of old standi ing, 
even then. 


*Some foolish knave, I thinke, at first began — 
The slander that thre @ taylers are one tan 
Taylor: Workes, iti. 73 ἜΘ 


Another suggestion is this: At the 
death of aman the tolling bell is rung 
thrice three tolls; at the death of a 
weman it is rung only three-two tolls. 
Hence nine tolls indicate the death of a 
man. Halliwell gives ¢e//ed = told, and 
a tolling-bell is a teller. In regard to 
“‘make,’’ it is the French faire, as Ov le 
ἐν. some one gave out or 
made it known that he was dead. 


“The fourme of the Trinitie was founded in 
manne. ... 4 Adam our forefather, ...and Eve 
of Adam the secunde personne, and of them both 
was the third persone. At the death of a manne 
three bells schulde be ronge as h's kKnyll, in wor- 
scheppe of the Trinit e—for a womanne, who is 
the secunde personne of the Trinitie, two Lelles 
schulde be rangen.’—An old English Homily for 


Trinity ea (See Strutt: Manners und Cus- 
tums, VOL. 111. p. 176.) 

Tailor’s Sword (4), οὐ A Taiiox’s 
Dagger. A needle. 


Ὁ The tailors cross-legged on their hoards, 
Needle-arimed, hand-extended, prepared 
To stab the black cloth with their swords [to 
make up mourning) 
The instant that death is declare 1.” 

Peter Pindar: Great Cry and Little Wool, Epist. i. 

Take a Back Seat (70). To be 
set aside ; to be deferred for the present. 
A parliamentary phrase. 

“When there seemed to he atendency .. . to 
make the Trisb question, in the cant of the day 

take a back seat,’ Unionist indignation knew no 
bounds.”—Tie Daily Gruphic, February 9th, 1393. 

Take a Hair οἵ the Dog that Bit 
Wou. After a debauch, take a little 
wine the next day. Take a cool draught 
οἵ ale in the morning, after a night’s 
excess. The advice was given literally 
10 ancient HIMES) 1 ἢ dog bites you, 
put a hair of the dog into the wound,’ 
ou the homceopathic ‘principle Olas Simi - 
lia similibus corantur”? (like cures like). 


Take in Tow (70). Take under 
guidance. A man who takes a lad im tow 
acts as his euide and director. To tow a 
ship or barge is to guide and draw it 
along by tow-lines. 


“Too proud for bards to take in tow my name, 
Peter Pindar: Future Laureate, Part ii. 


Take Mourning 


Take Mourning (70). Attending 
church the Sunday after a funeral. It 
is the custom, especially in the northern 
counties, for all the mourners, and some- 
times the bearers also, to sit in a specific 
pew all together the Sunday after a 
funeral. It matters not what place of 
worship they usually attend-—all unite 
in the ‘‘ taking mourning.”’ 


Take Tea with Him (J), ie. I 
floor my adversary by winning every 
rubber. If he beats me in billiards, he 
‘‘has me on toast.’? (Indian slang.) 


Takin’ the Beuk. A Scotch phrase 
for family worship. 

Taking On. Said of a woman in 
hysterics ; to fret ; to grieve passionately, 
as, ‘‘ Come, don’t take on so!”’ 

“Lance, who... took upon himself the whole 
birden of Dame Debbitch’s... ‘taking on,’ as 
such fits of passio hysterica are usually termed.” 
—Sir W. Scott : Peveril of the Peak, chap. Xxvi. 

Taking a Sight. Putting the right 
thumb to the nose and spreading the 
fingers out. ‘This is done as much as to 
say, ‘‘ Do yousee any green in my eye ?”’ 
‘Tell that to the marines;’’ ““ Credat 
Judaeus, non ego.’? Captain Marryat tells 
us that some ‘‘of the old coins of Den- 
mark represent Thor with his thumb to 
his nose, and his four fingers extended 
in the air;”’ and Panurge (says Rabe- 
lais, Pantagruel, book ii. 19) ‘* suddenly 
lifted his right hand, put his thumb to 
his nose, and spread his fingers straight 
out ”’ to express incredulity. 

“ERE en he says no word that indicates a 

But See thumb unto his nose, and spreads 

iis fingers out.” Ingoldsby : Nell Cook. 

Taking Time by the Forelock. 
Seize the present moment; ‘‘ Carpe 
diem.’ Time personified is represented 
with a lock of hair on his forehead but 
none on the rest of his head, to signify 
that time past cannot be used, but time 
present may be seized by the forelock, 


Tal/botype (3 syl.). A photographic 
process invented in 1839 by Fox Talbot, 
who called it ‘‘the Calotype Process.’’ 
(Sve DAGUERREOTYPE. ) 


Tale (1 syl.). A tally; a reckoning. 
In Exod. v. we have tale of bricks. A 
measure by number, not by weight. 

An old wife's tale. Any marvellous 
legendary story. 

Te tell tales out of school. To utter 
abroad affairs not meant for the public 
ear. 

Tale of a Tub (7ie). A ridiculous 
narrative or tale of fiction. The refer- 
cnce is to Dean Swift’s tale so called, 


1204 


Talking Bird 


Talent, meaning cleverness or ‘‘gift”’ 
of intelligence, is a word borrowed from 
Matt. xxv. 14-30. 


Ta/‘les (2 syl.). Persons in the court 
from whom the sheriff or his clerk makes 
selections to supply the place of jurors 
who have been empanelled, but are not 
in attendance. It is the first word of 
the Latin sentence which provides for 
this contingency. (Zales de circum- 
stant’ ibus.) 

“To serve for jurymen or tales.” Ὁ 
Butler : Iludibras, part ii. 8. 

To pray a talés. To pray that the 
number of jurymen may be completed. 
It sometimes happens that jurymen are 
challenged, or that less than twelve are 
in the court. When this is the case the 
jury can request that their complement 
be made up from persons in the court. 
Those who supplement the jury are 
called talesmen, and their names are set 
down in a book called a taleshool:. 


Talgol (in JZudibras), famous for 
killing flies, was Jackson, butcher of 
Newgate Street, who got his captain’s 
commission at Naseby. 

Talisman. A figure cut or engraved 
on metal or stone, under the influence of 
certain planets. In order to free any 
place of vermin, the figure of the ob- 
noxious animal is made in wax or con- 
secrated metal, in a planetary hour, and 
this is called the talisman. (Warburten.). 

“ He swore that you had robbed his house, 
And stole his talismanic louse.” 
S. Butler: Hudibras, part iii. 1. 

Talisman. The Abraxas Stone is a 
most noted talisman. (Sze ABRAXAS.) In 
Arabia a talisman is still used, consisting 
of a piece of paper, on which are written 
the names of the Seven Sleepers and 
their dog, to protect a house from ghosts 
and demons. The talisman is supposed 
to be sympathetic, and to receive an in- 
fluence from the planets, which it com- 
municates to the wearer. 


Talk. 170 talk over. To discuss, to 
debate ; also to gain over by argument. 


Talk Shop. (Sve SHop.) 


Talkee Talkee. (A reduplication of 
talk with termination ee, borrowed in ri- 
dicule from some attempt of dark races 
to speak English.) A copius effusion of 
talk with no valuable result. 


Talking Bird. A bird that spoke 
with a human voice, and could call all 
other birds to sing in concert. (The 
Sisters who Envied their Younger Sister ; 
Arabian Nights.) (See GREEN BrRD.) 


Tall Men 1 


05 Tlam-o’-Shanter’s Maré 


Tall Men. Champions (a Welsh 
phrase) ; brave men. 

“You were good solders, and tall fellows.’— 
Shakespeure: Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 2. 

“The undaunted resolution and stubborn fero- 
city of Gwenwyn ... had long made him beloved 
among the ‘Tall Men,’ or champions of Wales.’— 
Sir W. Scott: The Betrothed, chap. 1. 

Talleyrana, anciently written Zuil- 
levan, is the sobriquet derived from the 
words ‘* tailler les rangs,” ‘‘cut through 
the ranks,” 

Tally (4). The price paid for picking 
a bushel of hops. It varies (1891) from 
Iya. to-23d. 


Tally. To correspond. The tally 
used in the Exchequer was a rod of 
wood, marked on one face with notches 
corresponding to the sum for which it 
was an acknowledgment. Two other 
sides contained the date, the name of 
the payer, and so on. The rod was then 
cleft in such a manner that each half 
contained one written side and half of 
every notch. One part was kept in the 
Exchequer, and the other was circulated. 
When payment was required the two 
parts were compared, and if they 
‘* tallied,’’ or made a tally, all was right ; 
if not, there was some fraud, and pay- 
ment was refused. ‘Tallies were not 
finally abandoned in the Exchequer till 
1834. (French, tailler, to cut.) 

‘ In 1834 orders were issued to 
destroy the tallies. There were two 
cartloads of them, which were set fire 
to at six o’clock in the morning, and the 
conflagration set on fire the Houses of 
Parliament, with their offices, and part 
of the Palace of Westminster. 

To break one’s tally (τὰ Latin, ‘‘ Con- 
Sringere tesseram’’). When public houses 
were unknown, a guest entertained for 
a night at a private house had a tally 
given him, the corresponding part being 
kept by the host. It was expected that 
the guest would return the favour if 
required to do so, and if he refused he 
“violated the rites of hospitality,’’ or 
confregisse tesseram. The ‘* white stone ”’ 
spoken of in the Book of the Revelation 
is a tessera which Christ gives to His 
disciples, 

To live tally is to live unwed as man 
and wife. A tally-woman is a con- 
cubine, and a tally-man is the man who 
keeps a mistress. These expressions are 
quite common in Cheshire, Yorkshire, 
and Laneashire. In mines a tin label is 
attached to each tub of coals, bearing 
the name of the man who sent it to the 
bank, that the weighman may credit it 
to the right person, As the tallies of 


the miner and weighman agree, so the 
persons who agree to live together tally 
with each other’s taste. 


Tally-ho! is the Norman hunting cry 
Taillis au ! (Lo the coppice), The tally- 
ho was used when the stag was viewed 
in full career making for the coppice. 
We now cry ‘Tally-ho!’’? when the 
fox breaks cover. The French cry is 
“ὁ Tavaut !” 


Tallyman (4). A travelling draper 
who calls at private houses to sell wares 
on the tally system—that is, part pay- 
ment on account, and other parts when 
the man calls again. 


Talmud (712). About 120 years after 
the destruction of the Temple, the rabbi 
Judah began to take down in writing the 
Jewish traditions ; his book, called the 
Mishna, contains six parts: (1) Agri- 
culture and seed-sowing ; (2) Festivals ; 
(3) Marriage; (4) Civil affairs; (5) Sac- 
rifices ; and (6) what is clean and what 
unclean. The book caused immense dis- 
putation, and two Babylonish rabbis 
replied to it, and wrote a commentary in 
sixty parts, called the Babylonian Talmud. 
Gemara (Qmpertect). This compilation 
has been greatly abridged by the omis- 
sion of Nos, ὃ and 6. 


Talpot or Talipot Tree. A gigantic 
palm. When the sheath of the flower 
bursts it makes a report like that of a 
cannon, 

“ They burst, like Zeilan’s giant palm, 

W hose buds fly open with a sound 


That shakes the pigmy forest round.” 
Moore: Fire Worshippers. 


Zeilan is Portuguese for Ceylon. 


Talus. Sir Artegal’s won man. 
Spenser, in his Fueérie Queene, makes 
Talus run continually round the island 
of Crete to chastise offenders with an 
iron flail. He represents executive 
power—“ swift as a swallow, and as lion 
strong.’”’ In Greek mythology, Talos 
was a man of brass, the work of He- 
phiestos (Vulcan), who went round the 
island of Crete thrice a day. Whenever 
he saw a stranger draw near the island 
he made himself red-hot, and embraced 
the stranger to death. 


Tam-o’-Shanter’s Mare. emember 
Tum-o’-Shanter’s mare. You may pay 
too dear for your whistle, as Meg lost 
her tail, pulled off by Nannie of the 
“ἐ Cutty-sark.”’ 

“ Think, ye may buy the joys owre dear— 


Remember Tam-o'-Shanter’s mare.” 
Burns, 


Tamarisk 


1206 


Tanner of Tamworth 


Tamarisk, from a Hebrew word 
meaning to cleanse, so called from its 
abstersive qualities. ‘The Romans 
wreathed the brows of criminals with 
tamarisk. The Arabs make cakes called 
manna of the hardened juice extracted 
from this tree. 


Tame Cat (4). 
after a married woman ; 
servant ; a cicisbeo. 

“He soon installed himself as atayve cat in the 


Mi NCAEEDE Os AUS sion. —Truth (ueer Story), © cto- 
} ἔν ΚΕ 


A harmless dangier 
a cavalier 


Snipe ς (Bsyl.).° A corruption of 
Timour Levyh (Timour the Lame), one 
of the greatest warrior-kings that ever 
lived. Under him Persia became a pro- 
vince of Tartary. He modestly called 
himself Ameer (chief), instead of sultan 
or shah. (1380-1408.) 


Taming of the Shrew. The plot 
was borrowed from a drama of the same 
title, published by ὃ. Leacroft, of Char- 
ing Cross, under the title of Six Old 
Plays on which Shakespeare Founded his 
Comedies. The induction was borrowed 
from Heuterus’ Rerwn Burgundarwun 
(lib. iv.), a translation of which was pub- 
lished in 1607 by E. Grimstone, and cal- 
led Admirable and Memorable Histories. 
Dr. Percy thinks that the ballad of 7he 
Frolicksome Duke, or the Tinker’s Good 
Fortune, published in the Pepys Collec- 
tion, may have suggested the induction. 
(See SLY.) 


Tammany (‘/.). Tammany was of 
the Delaware nation in the seventeenth 
century, and became a chief, whose rule 
Was wise and pacific. He was chosen 
by the American democrats as their tute- 
lary saint. His dayis May Ist. Cooper 
calls him Tammenund, but the correct 
word is Liananend. 


Tammany Ring. A cabal or power- 
ful organisation of unprincipled officials, 
who enriched themselves by plundering 
the people. So called from Tammany 
Hall, the head-quarters of the high 
officials of the U.S., whose nefarious 
practices were exposed in 1371. 


Tammuz. (See THAMMUZ.) 


Tan’ered (in Jerusalem Delivered) 
shows a generous contempt of danger. 
fon of Kudes and Emma (sister. of 
Robert Guiseard), Bcemond or Boke- 
mond was his cousin. Tanered was the 
greatest of all the Christian warriors 
except Rinaldo. His one fault was 
‘woman’s love,’? and that woman 
Clorinda, 2 Pagan (bk, i.). He brought 


800 horse from Tuscany and Campania 
to the allied Christian army. He slew 
Clorinda (uot knowing her) in a night 
combat, and lamented her death with 
great lamentation (bk. xii). Being 
wounded, he was nursed by Ermin’‘ia, 
who was in love with him (bk. xix.). 


Tan’dem. At length. A pun applied 
to two horses driven one before the other. 
This Latin is of a similar character to 
plenum sed (full butt). 


Tandem D.O.M. Tandem Deo optimo 
maximo (Now at the end ascribe we 
praise to God, the best and greatest). 


Tangie. The water sprite of the 
Orkneys; from Danish tang (sea-weed), 
with which it. is covered. The tangie 
sometimes appears in a human form, 
and sometimes as a little apple-green 
horse. 


Tanist (4). One who held lands in 
Treland uuder the Celtic law of tanistry. 
The chief ofasept. (Irish, ¢anaiste, heir 
apparent to a chief.) 

““Whoever stood highest in the estimation vf 
the cliss was nominated * Tanist, or successor. 
BE. Luwiess: Story of Ireland, chap. ili. p. 27. 

Tanist Stone. A monolith erected 
by the Celts at a coronation. We read 
in the Book of Judges (ix. 6) of Ahime- 
lech, that a “ pillar was erected in 
Shechem’’ when he was made king ; and 
(2 Kings xi. 14) it is said that a pillar 
was raised when Joash was made king, 
“Cas the manner was.”? The Lia Fuil of 
Treland was erected in Icolmkil for the 
coronation of Fergus Eric. This stone 
was removed to Scone, and became the 
coronation chair of Scotland. It was 
taken to Westminster by Edward I., and 
is the coronation chair of our sovereigns, 
(Celtic, Zunist, the heir-apparent.) 


Tankard of October (4). A tan- 
kard of the best and strongest ale, 
brewed in October. 


“He was in high favour with Sir Geoffrey, not 
merely on account of his sound orthodoxy and 
deep learning, but {also for] his excellent skill in 
playing at bowls, and his facetious conver sation 
over a pipe and tankard of October.”"—Sir Was 


Scott : Peveril of the 4 eal, chap.iv. 

Tanner. Sixpence. (The Italian 
danaro, small change; Gipsy, tarno, 
little one. Similarly ἃ ¢thaler is called a 


dollar.) 


Tanner. A proper name, (Sve 
BREWER. ) 
Tanner of Tamworth. Edward 


IY. was hunting in Drayton Basset when 
a tanner met him. The king asked him 
several questions, and the tanner, taking 
him for a highway robber, was verv 


Tannhauser 


1207 


Tappit-hen 


chary. At last they swopped horses ; 
the tanner gave the king his gentle mare 
Brocke, which cost 4s., and the king 
gave the tanner his hunter, which soon 
threw him, Upon this the tanner paid 
dearly for changing back again. Kd- 
ward now blew his horn, and when his 
courtiers came up in obedience to the 
summons, the tanner, in great alarm, 
cried out, “1 hape 1 shall be hanged to- 
morrow ”’ (i.e. I expect) ; but the king 
gave him the manor of Plumpton Park, 
with 800 marks a year. (lereu: Le- 
liques, etc.) 

Tann‘hau'ser (3 syl.). A legendary 
hero of Germany, who wins the affections 
of Lisaura ; but Lisaura, hearing that Sir 
Tannhiuser has set out for Venusberg to 
kiss the queen of love and beauty, de- 
stroys herself. After living scme time 
in the cave-palace, Sir Tannhauser ob- 
cains leave to visit the upper world, and 
goes to Pope Urban for absolution. 
“ΝΟ, said his holiness, ‘‘ you can no 
tore hope for mercy than this dry staff 
can be expected to bud again.’”? On this 
the knight returned to Venusberg. Ina 
few days the papal staff actually did bud, 
and Urban sent for Sir Tannhauser, but 
the knight was nowhere to be found. 


Tansy. A corruption of the Greek 
word athanasia, immortality, as thansa, 
tansy. So called because itis “ἃ sort of 
everlasting flower.”? (Πογίις Anglicus, 
vol, ii. p. 366.) 


Tan'talise. 


To excite a hope and 
disappoint it. 


(See next article.) 

Tan’talos (Latin, Tantalus), accord- 
ing to fable, is punished in the infernal 
regions by intolerable thirst. To make 
his punishment the more severe, he is 
plunged up to his chin in a river, Lut 
whenever he bends forward to slake his 
thirst the water flows from him. 

“ So bends tormented Tantalus to drink, 
While irom his lips the refluent waters shrink ; 

Again the rising stream his bosem laves, 

And thirst consumes him ‘mid circun. fluent 

wayes.” 

Darwin: Loves of the Plants, τ. 419. 

Tantalus. Emblematical of a coveious 
man, who the move he has the more he 
craves. (Scé COVEIOUS.) 

Tantalus. A parallel story cyxists 
among the Chipouyans, who inhabit the 
deserts which divide Canada from the 
United States. At death, they say, the 
soul is placed in a stone ferry-boat, till 
judgment has been passed on it. If the 
judgment is averse, the boat sinks in the 
stream, leaving the victim chin-deep in 
water, where he suffers endless thirst, 


and makes fruitless attempts to escape 
to the Islands of the Blessed. (Alexander 
Mackenzie: Voyages in the interior of 
America.) (1789, 1792, 1798.) 

Tanthony (St. Anthony). In Nor- 
wich are the churches called Sin Tel- 
der’s (St. Ethelied’s), Sin Tedmund’s (Νὰ, 
Edmund's), Sin Tander’s (St. dndiew’s), 
and Sin Tausin’s (δέ. Austin’s). (See 
TawDRY.) 


Tantum Ergo. The most popular 
of the Eucharistic hymns sung in the 
Roman Catholic churches at Benediction 
with the Holy Sacrament. So called trom 
the first two words of the last stanza 
but cne of the hymn Lange Lingua. 


Tacu. The sect of Reason, founded 
in China by Laou-Tsze, a contemporary 
of Confu’cius. He was taken to heaven 
on a black buffalo. (8.6. 428.) 

Tap tke Acmiral. 
from a cask by astraw. Hotten says it 
was first done with the rum-cask m 
which the bedy of Admiral Lord Nelscii 
was brought to England, and when the 
cask arrived the admiral was found 
“high and dry.”’ 


Tap the Till (7v). To pilfcr froma 
till. 


Tap-up Sunday. ‘The Sunday pre- 
ceding the fair held on the 2nd October, 
on St. Catherine’s Hill, near Guildford, 
and so called because any person, with 
or without a licence, may open a ‘‘ tap,”’ 
or sell beer on the hill for that one day. 


Tapis. Onthetapis. On the carpet; 
under consideration; now being veuti- 
lated. An English-French phrase, re- 
ferring to the tapis or cloth with which 
the table of the council-chamber is 
covered, and on which are laid the 
motions before the House. 

“My business comes now upon the tapis.’— 
Farquhar: The Beaux Stratacem, 111. 3. 

Tapisserie. Fuire tapisserie. Τὸ 
play gooseberry-picker; to be mere 
chaperon for the sake of ‘‘ propriety.” 
“Se dit des perscnnes qui assertent a un 
bal ou a quelque autre grande réunicn sans 
y prendre part.” 


To suck liquor 


“You accepted out of pure kindness fairetayi-- 
serie; Mrs. Arbuthnot, you are too amiable. — 
Mrs. Edwardes: A Girton Girl, chap, XX V1. 

Tappit-hen (4). A huge pewter 
measuring-pot, containing at least three 
English quarts. Readers of Waverley 
will remember (in chap. xi.) the Baron 
Bradwardine’s tappit-hen of claret from 
Bordeaux. To have a tappit-hen under 
the belt is to have swallowed three quarts 


Tapster 


of claret. 4 hen and chickens means 
large and small drinking mugs or pewter 
pots. A tappit was served from the 
tap. (See JEROBOAM.) 
* Weel she lo'ed a Hawick gill, 
And leugh to see a tappit-len.” 

Tapster, says E. Adams (Μη φίλ 
Language), properly means a bar-iaid ; 
κε -ster’’ is the Anglo-Saxon feminine 
suffix -estve, which remains in spin-ster 
(a female spinner). 

τ Thisisonly a half-truth. After the thirteenth 
century, the sumx το δ) was used for an agent of 
either sex. We have barrister, ganiester, punster, 
ete.,and Wickl ffe uses songster for a male singer. 
Gsee Ur. Morris: Historic Outlines, p. 89.) 

Tapu, among the South Sea Islanders, 
means ‘‘devoted”’ in a religious sense. 
Thus, a temple is fapu, and he who vio- 
lates a temple is tapu. Not only so, but 
everyone and everything connected with 
what is tapu becomes tapu also. Thus, 
Captain Cook was tapu because some of 
his sailors took rails from a ἢ temple’ of 
the Hawauans to supply themselves with 
fuel, and, being devoted, he was slain. 
Our tabco is the same word, 


Tarabelus or Tantrabolus. 11 
ehall live till we die, ike Tarabolus [or 
Tantrabolus|. Tarabolus, Ali Pacha, was 
grand vizier in 1693, and was strangled 
in 1695 by order of Mustapha IT. 

We shall live till we die, like Tantra- 
Jolus, is said to be a Cornish proverb. 
There is a cognate saying, ‘ Like Tan- 
trabolus, who lived till he died.’’ 

~ Tantarabobs means the 
Noisily playful children are 
Tantrabols. 


Tarakee, the Brahmin, was the 
model of austere devotion. He lived 
1,100 years, and spent each century in 
some astounding mortification. 

Ist century. He held up his arms and 
one foot towards heaven, fixing his eyes 
on the sun the whole time. 

2nd century. He stood on tiptoe the 
whole time. 

5th century. He stood on his head, 
with his feet towards the sky. 

Sth century. He vested wholly on the 
palm of one hand. 

llth century. He hung from a tree 
with his head downwards. 


“One century he lived wholly on water, another 
wholly on air, another steeped to the neck in 
earth, and for another century he was always 
enveloped in fire. J don*t know that the world 
has heen henefited hy such deyotion.”—Maurice: 
History of Hindostai. 


Tarant’ism. The dancing mania, ex- 
tremely contagious. It broke out in 
Germany in 1374, and in France in the 
Great Revolution, when it was called 


devil. 
called 


1208 


Tarring and Feathering 


the Carmagnole. Clergymen, judges, 
men and women, even the aged, joined 
the mad dance in the open streets till 
they fell from exhaustion. 


Taran'tula. This word is derived 
from Taranto the city, or from Thara 
the river in Apulia, in the vicinity of 
which the venomous hairy spiders 
abound. (Kircher: De Arte Mag.) 


Tarentella or Tarantella. Tunes 
and dances in triplets, supposed to cure 
the dancing mania. 


Tariff. A list in alphabetical order 
of the duties, drawbacks, bounties, ete., 
charged or allowed on exports and im- 
ports. The word is derived from Tari‘fa, 
a seaport of Spain about tweuty miles 
from Gibraltar, where the Moors, during 
the supremacy in Spain, levied contri- 
butions according to a certain scale on 
vessels entering the Mediterranean Sea, 
(French, {αν}, Spanish, tarifa.) 

Tarpaulins or Tars. Sailors: more 
frequently called Jack Tavs. Tarpau- 
lins are tarred cloths used commonly 
on board ship to keep articles from the 
sea-spray, etc. 

The more correct spelling is tar-palling, from 
pall, Latin palliwm, a cloak or cloth. 

Tarpeian Rock. So called fiom 
Tarpeia, a vestal virgin, the daughter of 
Spurius Tarpeius, governor of the citadel 
on the Capit’oline Hill. Tarpeia agreed 
to open the gates to the Sabines if they 
would give her ‘‘ what they wore on 
their arms’”’ (meaning their bracelets). 
The Sabines, ‘‘ keeping their promise to 
the ear,’’ crushed her to death with their 
shields, and she was buried in that part 
of the hill called the Tarpeian Rock. 
Subsequently, traitors were cast down 
this rock and so killed. 


“ Tear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thence 

Into destruction cast him.” 

Shakespeare: Coriolanus, iii. 1. 

Tarred. All tarred with the same 
brush, All alike to blame; all sheep of 
the same flock, The allusion is to the 
custom of distinguishing the sheep of 
any given flock by a common mark with 
a brush dipped in tar. 


Tarring and Feathering. ‘The 
first record of this punishment is in 
1189 (1 Rich. I.). A statute was made 
that any robber voyaging with the cru- 
saders ‘‘ shall be first shaved, then boil- 
ing pitch shall be poured upon his head, 
and a cushion of feathers shook over 
1. The wretch was then to be put on 
shore at the very first place the ship 
came to. (ymer.: Fadera, i. 65.) 


Tarrinzeau Field 


1209 


Tarrinzeau Field. The bowling- 
green of Southwark. So called because 
it belonged to the Barons Hastings, who 
were Barons Tarrinzeau and Mauchline. 


Tartan Plaid. A plaid is a long 
shawl or scarf—some twelve yards of 
narrow cloth wrapped round the waist, 
or over the chest and one shoulder, 
and reaching to the knees. It may be 
chequered or not; but the English use 
of the word in such a compound as 
Seotch-plaids, meaning chequered cloth, 
is a blunder for Scotch tartans. The 
tartan is the chequered pattern, every 
clan having its own tartan. A tartan- 
plaid is a Seotch scarf of a tartan or 
checked pattern. 


Tartar, the deposit of wine, means 
“internal stuff,’ being derived from 
the word Tar'taros (7.v.). Paracelsus 
says, ‘‘It is so called because it pro- 
duces oil, water, tincture, and salt, which 
burn the patient as the fires of Tartarus 
burn,” 

Tar’tarcs (Greek), Tartarus (Latin). 
That part of the internal regions where 
the wicked are punished, (Classic myth- 
olcqy.) 

The word ‘“‘ Hell” occurs seventeen 
times in the English version of the New 
Testament. Im seven of these the ori- 
ginal Greek is ‘‘Gehenna,’”? in nine 
‘““Hadés,’’? and in one instance if is 
“ Tartaros’’ (2. Peter il. 4) σειραῖς ζόφου 
ταρταρώσας, παρέδωκεν. It is a very great 
pity that the three words are translated 
alike, especially as Gehenna and Hadés 
are not synonymous, nor should either 
be confounded with Tartarus. The 
Anglo-Saxon verb /é/-ai means to cover, 
hence fell = the grave or Hadés. 


Tartuffe (2 syl.). The principal 
character of Molitre’s comedy so called. 
The original was the Abbé de Roquette, 
a parasite of the Prince de Condé. It is 
said that the name is from the Italian 
tartuffoli (truffles), and was suggested to 
Moliére on seeing the sudden animation 
which lighted up the faces of certain 
monks when they heard that a seller 
of truffles awaited their orders. Bicker- 
staff’s play, The Hypocrite, is an English 
version of Zarit 70. 

Tassel-Gentle. The fierce] is the 
male of the goshawk. So called because 
it is a tierce or third less than the female. 
This is true of all birds of prey. The 
tiercel-gentle was the class of hawk ap- 
propriate to princes. (Sve Hawk.) 

Ὁ for a faleconer’s voice 


To lure this tassel-gentle hack again!" 
Shakespeare: Remeo and Juliet, il. 2. 


Taurus 
Tasselled Gentleman. A fop; a 
man dressed in fine clothes. A corrup- 


tion of Tercel-gentle by a double blunder: 
(1) Tereel, erroneously supposed to be 
tassel, and to refer to the tags and tassels 
worn by men on their dress; and (2) 
gentle corrupted into gentlemen, accord- 
ing to the Irish exposition of the verse, 
‘*The gentle shall inherit the earth.”’ 


Ta'tianists. The disciples of Tatian, 
who, after the death of Justin Martyr, 
‘‘formed a new scheme of religion ; for he 
advanced the notion of certain invisible 
wons, branded marriage with the name 
of fornication, and denied the salvation 
of Adam.’ (Ireneus : Adv. Hereses (ed. 
Grabe), pp. 104, 106, 262.) 

* Two Tatians are almost always 
confounded as one person in Church 
history, although there was at least a 
century between them. The older Ta- 
tian was a Platonic philosopher, born in 
Syria, and converted to Christianity by 
Justin the Martyr. He was the author 
of a Discourse to the Greeks, became a 
Gnostic, and founded the sect of the 
Tatianists. The other Tatian was a 
native of Mesopotamia, lived in the 
fourth century, and wrote in very bad 
Greek a book called Diatessaron, sup- 
posed to be based on four Gospels, but 
what four is quite conjectural. 


Tatterdemaliion. <A ragamuffin. 


Tattoo. A beat on the drum at night 
to recall the soldiers to their barracks. 
It sounded at nine in summer and eight 
in winter. (French, tapoter or tapotez 
tous.) 

The devil’s tattoo. Dramming with 
one’s finger on the furniture, or with 
oue’s toe on the ground—a monotonous 
sound, which gives the listener the ‘‘ blue 
deyils.”’ 

Tattoo (70). To mark the skin, es- 
pecially the face, with indelible pigments 
rubbed into small punctures. (Tahitan, 
tatu ; from ta, mark.) 


Tau. Marked with a tau, i.e. witha 
cross. Tertullian says, ‘‘ Hae est litera 
Grecorum τ, nostra autem T, species 
crucis.”? And Cyprian tells us that the 
sign of the cross on the forehead is the 
mark of salvation. 

“This reward (Ezek. ix. 4) is for those whose 
foreheads are marked with Tau.’—Bbp, Andrews: 
Sermons (Luke xvil. 32). 

Taurus [16 1} indicates to the 
Egyptians the time for ploughing the 
earth, which is done with oxen, 

Mount Taurus, in Asia. In Judges 
xy. 3-19 we have an account of Samson 


Tawdry 


1219 


Tear 


and the jawbone, but probably Chamor 
(translated an ass) was the name of a 
hill or series of hills like Taurus, and 
should not have been translated. Simi- 
larly, Lehi (translated a jawbone) is prob- 
ably a proper name also, and refers to a 
part of Chamor. If so, the meaning is, 
When he (Samson) came to Leli, the 
summit of Mount Chamor, seeing a 
moist boulder, he broke it off and rolled 
it on his foes. Down it bounded, crush- 
ing “ heaps upon heaps”’ of the Philis- 
tines. Where the boulder was broken 
off a spring of water jetted out, and 
with this water Samson quenched his 
thirst. 

" What is now called the Mountain 
of St. Patrick was previously called 
‘““Mount Eagle’’—in Irish, Cruachan 
Aichle, 


Tawdry. Showy, worthless finery ; 
a corruption of St. Audrey. At the 
annual fair of St. Audrey, in the isle of 
Ely, showy lace called St. Audrey’s lace 
was sold, and gaye foundation to our 
word tawdry, which means anything 
gaudy, in bad taste, and of little value, 
(See TANTHONY.) 

“Tucdry. ἡ Astrigmenta, timbrim, sen fascioke, 
emptwe nundinis 8S. Ethelredw.’ ’—Henshare. 

“Come, you vromised me a tawdry lace and a 
pair of sweet gloves.’—Winter’s Tale, iv. 4. 

Tawny (76). Alexandre Bonvici’no 
the historian, called /7 Moretto. (1514- 
1564.) 


Taylor, called The Water- Poet, who 
confesses he never learnt so much as 
the accidence. He wrote fourscore 
books, and afterwards opened an ale- 
house in Long Acre. (1580-1654.) 
“Taylor, their better Charon, lends an oar, 

Once swan of Than.es, though now be sings no 
nore,” Dunciad, iii. 

Taylor’s Institute. The Fitzwilliam 
Museum of Oxtord. So called from Sir 
Robert Taylor, who made large bequests 
towards its erection. (1714-1788.) 


Tchin. The military system adopted 
in the municipal and momestie regimen 
of Russia, 

“Peter the Great established what is here [in 
Russia] the ‘tchin, that is to say, he applied the 
military system to the general administration of 
the empire.’’-- De Custine: Russia, chap. vil. 

Tchow Dynasty. The third im- 
perial dynasty of China, which gave 
thirty-four kings, and lasted 866 years 
(B.c. 1122-256). It was so called from 
the seat of government. 


Te Deum, etc.,is usually ascribed to 
St. Ambrose, but is probably of a much 
later date. It is said that St. Ambrose 


improvised this hymn while baptising 
St. Augustine. In allusion to this tradi- 
tion, it is sometimes called “the Am- 
brosian Hymn,’’ 

Te Dewn (of ecclesiastical architecture) 
isa ‘* theological series”’ of carved figures 
in niches: (1) of angels, (2) of patri- 
archs and prophets, (9) of apostles and 
evangelists, (4) of saints and martyrs, 
(5) of founders. In the restored west 
front of Salisbury cathedral there is a 
“Te Deum,”’ but the whole 123 original 
figures have been reduced in number. 


Te Ig'itur. One of the service- 
books of the Roman Catholic Church, 
used by bishops and other dignitaries. 
So called from the first words of the 
canon, ‘* Te igitur, clemntissime Pater.” 

Oaths upon the Te Igitur. Oaths 
sworn on the 7e Jgitw service-book, 
regarded as especially solemn. 


Teague (4). An Irishman, abont 
equal to Pat or Paddy. Sometimes we 
find the word Teague-lander. Teague 
is an Irish servant in Farquhar’s 7win 
Rivals ; in act ui. 2 we find the phrase 
“a downright Teague,’? meaning a 
regular Irish character — blundering, 
witty, fond of whisky, and lazy. ‘The 
name is also introduced in Shadwell’s 
play, The Lancashire Witches, and 
Teague O Divelly, the Irish Priest (168). 

© Was’t Carwell, brother James, or Teague, 

That made thee break the Triple League 7” 
Rochester: History of Insipids. 

Teakettle Broth consists of hot 
water, bread, and a small lump of butter, 
with pepper and salt. The French soup 
maigre. 


Tean or Teian Poet. Anacron, 
who was born at Teos, in Io’nia. (B.c. 
563-478.) 

Teanlay Night. ‘The vigil of Ali 
Souls, or last evening of October, when 
bonfires were lighted and revels held for 
succouring souls in purgatory. 


Tear (to rhyme with “‘snare”’). Zo 
tear Chrisi’s body. To useimprecations. 
The common oaths of medizeval times 
were by different parts of the Lord's 
body ; hence the preachers used to 
talk of ‘‘ tearing God’s body by impre- 
cations,” 

“ Her othes been so grect and so dampnabie. 

That it is grisly for to hiere hém swere, 

Our blisful Lordés hody thay to-tere.” 

Chaucer: Canterbury Tales, 13,829. 

Tear (to rhyme with ‘‘fear’’). Zvar 
and larme. (Anglo-Saxon, teher ; 
Gothic, tagr ; Greek, dakru; Latin, 
lacrim-a ; French, /av’m.) 


Tear Handkerchief 


1211 


Teian Muse 


Tears of Eos. The dew-drops of the 
morning were so called by the Greeks. 
Eos was the mother of Memnon (η.1..), 
and wept for him every morning. 

St. Lawrences tears. Falling stars, 
St. Lawrence was roasted to death on a 
gridiron, and wept that others had not 
the same spirit to suffer for truth’s sake 
ashe had. (Sze LAWRENCE.) 


Tear Handkerchief (7c). A hand- 
kerchief blessed by the priest and given, 
in the Tyrol, to a bride, to dry her tears. 
At death, this handkerchief is laid in her 
coffin over the face of the deceased. 


Teaspoon (4). £5,000. (See Spoon.) 


Tea‘zle (Lady). <A lively, innocent 
country maiden, married to Sir Peter, 
who is old enough to be her father. 
Planted in the hotbed of London gaiety, 
she formed a /iaison with Joseph Surface, 
but, being saved from disgrace, repented 
and reformed. (Sheridan: School for 
Scandal.) (See TOWNLY.) 


Teazle (Sir Peter). A man who had 
remained a bachelor till he had become 
ola, when he married a girl from the 
country, who proved extravagant, fond 
of pleasure, selfish, and vain. Sir Peter 
was always gibing his wife for her 
inferior rank, teasing her about her 
manner of life, and yet secretly liking 
what she did, and feeling proud of her. 
(Sheridan : School for Scandal.) 


Teck (4). A detective. Every sus- 
picious man is a ‘‘teck’’ in the eyes of 
a thief. Of course, the word is a con- 
traction of [de]tec!tive]. 


Teeth. 


From the tecth outwards. Merely talk ; 
without real significance. 

“Much of the... talk about General Gordon 
lately was only from the teeth outwards.’—The 
Daily News, 1885. 

To set one’s teeth on edge. (Sce EGE.) 

He has cut his eye-teeth. Heis** up to 
snuff ;’’ he has ‘‘ his weather-eye open.” 
The eye-teeth are cut late — 


Months. 
First st—5 to &, the four central incisors. 
7 ,, 10 ,, lateral incisors. ΓΞ 
; : anterior molars. 
the eye-teeth. 


6, the anterior molars. 

» §& 3, Incisors. 

9 ,, 10 ,, bicuspids. 
ll ,, 12 ,, eye-teeth. 

In spite of his teeth. In opposition to 
lis settled purpose or resolution. Hol- 
inshed tells us of a Bristol Jew, who 
suffered a tooth to be drawn daily for 


. 
Με 
8 
s 
ΓΝ 
w 
ὥ 
i 
OnmTO ee 
o 


seven days before he would submit ἐς 
the extortion of King John. (Sve JEw’s 
EYE.) 

“In despite of the teeth of all the rhyme and 


reason.” —Shakespeare: Merry Wives of Windsor, 
Υ. 4. 


To cast into one’s teeth. To utter 


reproaches, 
“ All his faults observed, 
Setin a note-book, learned, and couned by rote, 
To cast into my teeth.” Ν 
Shakespeare: Julius Cesar, iv.3. 


The skin of his teeth. (See SKIN.) 

Teeth. The people of Ceylon and 
Malabar used to worship the teeth of 
elephants and monkeys. The Siamese 
once offered to a Portuguese 700,000 
ducats to redeem a monkey’s tooth. 

Wolf’s tooth. An amulet worn by 
children to charm away fear. 


Teeth are Drawn (His). His power 
of doing mischief is taken from him. 
The phrase comes from the fable of The 
Lion in Love, who consented to have his 
teeth drawn and claws cut, in order that 
a fair damsel might marry him. When 
the teeth were drawn and claws cut off, 
the father of the maid fell on the lion 
and slew him. 


Teeth of the Wind (Jz the). With 
the wind dead against us, with the wind 
blowing in or against our teeth. 

“To strive with all the tempest in my teeth.” 
Pope. 

Teetotal. Those who sign the ab- 
stinence pledge are entered with O. P. 
(old pledge) after their name. Those 
who pledge themselves to abstain whoily 
from alcoholic drinks have a T (fota/) 
after their name. Hence, T = total 
abstainer. 

** The tale about Dick Turner, a 
plasterer or fish-hawker at Preston, in 
Lancashire, who stammered forth, “1 
have nowt to do with the moderation 
botheration pledge; I’ll be reet down 
t—total, that or nowt,’’ is not to be re- 
lied on. 


It is said that Turner’s tombstone contains this 
inscription: “ Beneath this stone are depos.tet 
the remains of Richard Turner, author of the 
word Teetotal as applied to abstinence from all 
intoxicating liquors, Who departed this life onthe 
27th day of October, 1846, aged 56 years.’ 

Teetotum (4). <A working-man’s 
club in which all intoxicants are pro- 
hibited. 

“You can generally depend upon getting your 
money's worth if you go to a teetotum.”—Slephen 
Remar, chap. ν΄. 

Teian Muse (7716). ( 
native of Teion, in Paphlagonia, 
563-478.) 


Anacreon, 2 
(B.C. 


2 Temper 


Teinds 121 
Teinds, ‘Tithes. 
“Taking down from the window-seat that 
amusing folio (Lhe Scottish Coke upon Littleton), 
he opened it, as if instinctively, at the tenth title 
of Book Second, ‘of Teinds or Tythes.’”—Sir W. 


Scott: The Antiquary, chap. XXXy. 
N.B. Those entitled to tithes were 
called in Scotland ‘‘ teind-masters.’’ 


Telamo’nes. Supporters. (Greek, 
telamon.) Generally applied to figures 
of men used for supporters in archi- 
ture. (Sve ATLANTES. ) 


Telegram. Milking a telegran. A 
telegram is said to be ‘‘ milked’? when 
the message sent to a specific party is 
surreptitiously madé use of by others. 


“They receive their telegrams in cipher to 
avoid the risk of their being ‘milked’ by rival 
journals.”—The Times, August Mth, 1859. 

Telem’achos. ‘The only son of 


Ulysses and Penel’ope. After the fall of 
Troy he went, under the guidance of 
Mentor, in quest of his father. He is 
the hero of Fénelon’s prose epic called 
Téléimaque. 


Tell (JVilliam). The boldest of the 
Swiss mountaineers. The daughter of 
Leu'thold having been insulted by an 
emissary of Albrecht Gessler, the enraged 
father killed the ruffian and fled. William 
Tell carried the assassin across the lake, 
and greatly incensed the tyrannical 
governor. The people rising in rebel- 
lion, Gessler put to death Melch’tal, the 
patriarch of the district, and, placing the 
ducal cap of Austria on a pole, com- 
manded the people to bow down before 
it in reverence. Tell refused to do so, 
whereupon Gessler imposed on him the 
task of shooting an apple from his little 
boy’s head. Tell succeeded in this peril- 
ous trial of skill, but, letting fall a con- 
cealed arrow, was asked with what object 
he had secreted it. ‘‘To kill thee, Ὁ 
tyrant,’’ he replied, ‘‘if I had failed in 
the task imposed on me.’’ Gessler now 
ordered the bold mountaineer to be put 
in chains and carried across the lake to 
Kiissnacht Castle ‘‘ to be devoured alive 
by reptiles,’’ but, being rescued by the 
peasantry, he shot Gessler and liberated 
his country. (Rossini: Guglielmo Tell, 
an opera.) 

“ Kissling’s monument at Altorf 
(1892) has four reliefs on the pedestal : 
(1) Tell shooting the apple; (2) Tell’s 
leap from the boat; (3) Gessler’s death ; 
and (4) Tell’s death at Schachenbach. 

William Tell. The story of William 
Tell is told of several other persons: 

(1) Egil, the brother of Wayland 
Smith. One day King Nidung com- 
manded him to shoot an apple off the 


head of his son. Egil took two arrows 
from his quiver, the straightest and 
sharpest he could find. When asked hy 
the king why he took fio arrows, the 
god-archer replied, as the Swiss peasaut 
to Gessler, ‘*‘ To shoot thee, tyrant, with 
the second if the first one fails.’’ 

(2) Saxo Grammaticus tells nearly the 
same story respecting Toki, who killed 
Harald. 

(9) Reginald Scot says, ‘‘ Puncher 
shot a pennie on his son’s head, and 
made ready another arrow to have slain 
the Duke Remgrave, who commanded 
it.’ (1584.) 

(4) Similar tales are told of Adam 
Bell, Clym of the Clough, William of 
Cloudeslie and Henry IV,, Olaf and 
Kindridi, ete. 


Tellers of the Exchequer. A cor- 
ruption of ¢a/licrs—i.e. tally-men, whose 
duty it was to compare the tallies, re- 
ceive money payable into the Exchequer, 
give receipts, and pay what was due ac- 
cording to the tallies. Abolished in the 
reign of William IV. The functionary 
of a banix who receives and pays bills, 
orders, and so on, is still called a 
“teller,” 

Tem’ora. One of the principal poems 
of Ossian, in eight books, so called from 
the royal residence of the kings of Con- 
naught, Cairbar had usurped the throne, 
having killed Cormac, a distant relative 
of Fingal; and Fingal raised an army 
to dethrone the usurper. The poem 
begins from this point with an invitation 
from Cairbar to Osear, son of Ossian, to 
a banquet. Oscar accepted the invita- 
tion, but during the feast a quarrel was 
vamped up, in which Cairbar and Oscar 
fell by each other’s spears. When Fingal 
arrived a battle ensued, in which Fillan, 
son of Fingal, the Achilles of the Cale~ 
donian army, and Cathmor, brother of 
Cairbar, the bravest of the Irish army, 
were both slain. Victory crowned the 
army of Fingal, and Ferad-Artho, the 
rightful heir, was restored to the throne 
οἵ Connaught. 


Temper. To make trim. The 
Italians say, tempera're la lira, to tune 
the lyre; temperare una penna, to mend 
a pen; temperare Voriuélo, to wind up 
the clock. In Latin, temperare calamox 
is ‘‘to mend a pen.” Metal well tem- 
pered is metal made trim or meet for its 
use, andif not so itis called i//-tempered. 
When Otway says, ‘‘ Woman, nature 
made thee to temper man,’’ he means to 
make him trim, to soften his nature, to 
mend him. 


Templars 


1213 


Teniers 


Templars or Knights Templars. 
Nine French knights bound themselves, 
at the beginning of the twelfth century, 
to protect pilgrims on their way to the 
Holy Land, and received the name of 
Templars, because their arms were kept 
in a building given to them for the pur- 
pose by the abbot of the convent called 
the Temple of Jerusalem. They used to 
call themselves the ‘‘ Poor Soldiers of 
the Holy City.’? Their habit was a long 
white mantle, to which subsequently was 
added a red cross on the left shoulder. 
‘heir famous war-cry was ‘‘ Bauseant,”’ 
from their banner, which was striped 
biack and white, and charged with a 
ved eross; the word DBauseant is old 
trench for a black and white horse. 

Seal of the Knights Templars (two 
Lnights riding on one horse). The first 
Master of the Order and his friend were 
so poor that they had but one horse 
between them, a circumstance comme- 
morated by the seal of the order. The 
order afterwards became wealthy and 
powerful. 


Temple (Zondon) was once the seat 
of the Knights Templars. (Sve above.) 


The place under inspection 
from the Latin verb fzeor, to behold, to 
look at. It was the space marked out 
by the Roman augurs as the field of ob- 
servation. When augurs made their ob- 
servations they marked out a space 
within which the sign was to occur. 
Rather remarkable is it that the Greek 
theos and Latin dews are nouns from the 
verbs theaomai and tueor, meaning the 
“ presence ”’ in this space marked out by 
the augurs. 


Temple (4). A kind of stretcher, 

used by weavers for keeping Scotch car- 
ae at its pr oper | breadth during 
weaving. The weaver’s temple is a sort 
of wooden rule with teeth of a pothook 
form. 


* Temple Bar, called ‘‘ the City Gol- 
gotha,’’ because the heads of traitors, etc., 
were exposed there. (Removed 1878.) 


Temple of Solomon. Timbs, in his 
Notabilia, p. 192, tells us that the trea- 
sure provided by David for this building 
exceeded 900 millions sterling (!). The 
building was only about 150 feet long 
and 105 wide. Taking the whole re- 
venue of the British empire at 100 mil- 
lions sterling annually, the sum stated 
by Timbs would exhaust nine years of 
the whole British revenue. The kingdom 
of David was not larger than Wales, and 
by no means populous. 


Temple. 


Temples (Pagai) in many respects 
resembled Roman Catholic churches. 
There was first the vestibule, in which 
were the piscina with lustral water to 
sprinkle those who entered the edifice ; 
then the nave (or aos), common to all 
comers; then the chancel (or ad#fwin) 
from which the general public was ex- 
cluded. In some of the temples there 
was also an qpsis, like our apse; and in 
some others there was a portico, which 
not unfrequently was entered by steps 
or ‘‘degrees’’; and, like churches, the 
Greek and Roman temples were conse- 
crated by the pontiff. 

τ The most noted temples were that of Vulcan, 
in Egypt; of Jupiter Olympus, and of Apollo. in 
Delphos; of Diana, in Ephesus; the Capitol and 
the Pantheon of Rome ; the Jewish temple built 
by Solomon, and that of Herod the Great. 

Tempora Mutantur. (Sve Muran- 
TUR.) 


Ten. Gothic, tai-hun (two hands); 
Old German, ze-en, whence zhi, zen. 


Ten Commandments (176). The 
following rhyme was written under the 
two tables of the commandments :— 


‘*PRSVR Y PRECT MN 
VER KE ΤῊ PROCPTS IN. 
The vowel E 
Supplies the key.” 

Ten Commandments (7%e). Scratch- 
ing the face with the ten fingers of an 
angry woman; or a blow with the two 
fists of an angry man, in which the “ ten 
commandments are summarised into 
two.”’ 


“Could I come near your beauty with my nails, 
I'd set my ten commandments in your face.” 
Shakespeare: 2 Henry VL., i. 


“<T daur you to touch him, spreading abroad ΕΣ 
long and muscular fingers, garnished wi ith claws, 
which a yulture might bave envied. ‘I'll set my 
ten commandments on the face of the first loon 
that lays a finger on him.’—Sir W. Scott: Wav.7- 
ley, chap. XXX. 

Tench is from the Latin fizc-a, so 
called, says Aulus Gellius, because it is 


tincta (tinted). 


Tend inthe Eyes. Dutch, ‘Jemand 
naar de oogen te zien.’? The English 
equivalent is, ‘‘to wait on his nod”? or 
beck. 


“Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides, 
So many mermaids, tended her 1’ the eyes. 
Shakespeare: Antony and Cleopatra, τὶ. 


Tendon. (Sec ACHILLES.) 
Ten’glio. A river in Lapland on 
whose banks roses grow. 
surprised to see upon the banks of this 
s of as lovely a red as any thatare in 
ardens.”—M. de Maupertuis. 


Malplaquet, in France, 


” 


riverr 
our own 


Teniiers. 


| famous for the victory of the Duke 


Tenner 


1214 


Term Time 


of Marlborough and Prince Kugene cver 
the French under Marshal Villars on 
September 11, 1709. 
“ Her courage tried 
On Teniers’ dreadful field.” 
Thomson: Autunn, 

The Scottish Tenicrs. Sir David Wilkie 
(1785-1841). 

Tenner (4). A ten-pound uote. 
“fiver ’’ 1s a five-pound note. 


A 


Tennis Ball of Fortune. Pertinax, 
the Roman emperor, was so called, 
He was first a seller of charcoal, then a 
schoolmaster, then a soldier, and lastly 
an emperor, but in three months he was 
vethroned and murdered. 


Tennyson (d/fied). Bard of Ar- 
thurian Lomance, His poems on the 
legends of King Arthur are—(1) Zhe 
Coming of Arthur; (2) Geraint and 
Enid; (3) Merlin and Vivien; (4) Lan- 
celot and Klaine ; (5) The Holy Grail ; 
(6) Lelleas and Ettare; (7) Guinevere ; 
(5) The Passing of Arthur. Also The 
Morte εἰ Arthur, Six Galahad, The Lady 
cf Shallott. (1810-1892.) ; 


Tenpenny Nails. Very large nails, 
1.000 of which would weigh 10 Ibs. 
Four-penny nails are those which are 
much smaller, as 1,000 of them would 
weigh only 4 Ibs. ; two-penny nails, 
being half the size, 1,000 of them would 
weigh only 2 lbs. ‘Then we come to the 
ounce nails, 1,000 weighing only 8, 12, 
or 16 ounces, the standard unit being 
always 1,000 nails. Penny is a corrup- 
tion of pounder, porm’er, prover, penny, 
as two-penny nails, four-penny nails, 
ten-penny nails, ete., according to the 
weight of 1,000 of them. 


Tenson. A subdivision of the chan- 
zos or poems of love and gallantry by the 
Troubadours. When the public jousts 
were over, the lady of the castle opened 
her ‘‘ court of love,’’? in which the com- 
batants contended with harp and song. 


Tent. Father of such as dwellin tenis. 
Jabal, (Genesis iv. 20.) 


Tent (Shidbladnir’s) would cover a 
whole army, and yet fold up into a parcel 
not too big for the pocket. (Arabian 
Nights.) 

Ten'terden. Tenterden steeple was 
the cause of Goodwin Sands. The reason 
alleged is not obvious ; an apparent 2)0)}- 
sequitur, Mx. More, being sent with a 
commission into Kent to ascertain the 
cause of the Goodwin Sands, called to- 
gether the oldest inhabitants to ask their 
opinion, A very old man said, “1 


< 


believe Tenterden steeple is the cause.” 
This reason seemed ridiculous enough, 
but the fact is, the Bishop of Rochester 
applied the revenues for keeping clear 
the Sandwich haven to the building of 
Tenterden steeple. (Se Goopwin 
SaNDs.) 

_ 7. Some say the stone collected for strengthen- 
ing the wall was used for building the chureh 
tower. 


Tenterhooks. J «ain cn tenlerhool , 
or on tenterhookhs of great expectat.on, 
My curiosity is on the full streteh, I am 
most curious or anxious to hear the 


issue. Cloth, after being woven, is 
stretched or ‘tentered’? on hocks 
passed through the selvages. (Latin, 


tentus, stretched, hence ὁ tent,’’ canvas 
stretched, ) 


“Tle was not kept an instant on the tenter- 
hooks of Impatience longer than the appointed 
moment.”—Sir W. Scott: Redgauntlet, chap. xvi. 


Tenth Legion (7c), or the Sub- 
merged Tenth. The lowest of the pro'e- 
tariat class. A phrase much populavise] 
in the last quarter of the uineteenth 
century by ‘‘General’’? Booth’s book, 
In Darkest England. (Seé SUBMERGED. ) 


Tenth Wave. i j 
tenth wave is the biggest. (See WAVL.) 

“At length, tumbling from the Gallic coast, the 
victorious tenth wave shall ride, like the boa, 
over all the rest.’”— Burke. 

Tercel. The male hawk. So called 
because it is one-third smaller than the 
female. (French, fies.) 


Terence. The Terence of England, 
the smender of hearts, is the exquisite 
compliment which Goldsmith, in his 
Retaliation, pays to Richard Cumber- 
land, author of The Jew, The IWest 
Indian, The Wheel of Foriune, ete. 
(1732-1811.) 


Tere’sa (St.). The reformer of the 
Carmelites, canonised by Gregory XV. 
in 1621. (1615-1582. (See SaANncHo 
PANZA.) 

Term Time, called, since 1873, 
SESSIONS. 

Michaelmas Sessions begin Noyemher 2nd, and 
end December 2'st. 

Hiluvy Sessions beg'n January llth, and end 
the Wednesday before Easter. 

Faster Sessions begin the Tuesday after Easter- 
week, and end the Friday before Whit-Sunday._ 

Trinity Sessions hegin the Tuesday after Whit- 
sun-week, and end August 8th. 

Term Time of our Universities, 
There are three terms at Cambridge in a 
year, and four at Oxford, but the two 
middle Oxford terms are two only in 
name, as they run on without a break. 
The three Cambridge terms are Lent, 
Easter, and Michaelmas. The four 


It is said that every 


Law 


Termagant 


1215 


Terza Rima 


Oxford terms are Lent, Easter + Trinity, 
and Michaelmas. 


LENT— 7 - 
Cambridge, begins January loih,and ends on 
the Friday before Palm Sunday. 
Oxford, begins January l4th,and ends on the 
Saturday before Palm Sunday. 


EASTER— Γ Ε 

Cambridge, begins on the Friday of Waster- 

week, and ends Friday nearest June 20th. 

Oxford, begins on the Wednesday of Easter- 

week, and ends Friday before Whit-Sunday. 
The continuation, called “Trinity term,” 
runs on till the second Saturday of July. 
MICHAELMAS— 
Combridage, begins October 151, and ends Le- 
_cember 16th. 

Orford, begins October loth, and ends Deccm- 

ber 17th. 

Termagant. The author of Junins 
suys this was a Saxon idol, and derives 
the word from tyr nagan (very mighty) ; 
but perhaps it is the Persian ¢27°-magian 
(Magian lord or deity). The early 
Crusaders, not very nive in their dis- 
tinctions, called all Pagans Sw-acens, 
and muddled together Magianism and 
Mahometanism in wonderful confusion, 
so that Termagant was called the god of 
the Saracens, or the co-partner of Ma- 
hound. Hence Ariosto makes Ferrau 
‘blaspheme his Mahound and Terma- 
gant’? (Orlando Furioso, xii. 59); and 
in the legend of Syr Guy the Soudan or 
Sultan is made to say— 


“S$ hel)e me, Mahoune, of might, 

And Termagaunt, me God so bright.” 

Terimagart was at one time apptied to 
men. Thus Massinger, in The lcture, 
says, ‘‘A hundred thousand Turks as- 
sailed him, every one a Termagant 
[Pagan].’”’ At present the word is 
applied to a boisterous, brawling woman. 
Thus Arbuthnot says, ‘‘The eldest 
daughter was a termagant, an imperious 
profligate wretch.”’ The change of sex 
arose from the custom of representing 
Termagant on the stage in Eastern 
robes, like those worn im Europe by 
females. 

“'Twas time to counterfeit, or that hot ter- 
magant Scot [Douglas] had paid me scot and lot 
too.”—Shakespeare: 1 Henry IV., Vv. 4. 

Outdoing Termagant (Hamlet, iti. 2). 
In the old play the degree of rant was 
the measure of villainy. Termagant and 
Herod, being considered the beart-ideal 
of all that is bad, were represented as 
sottling everything with club law, and 
bawling so as to split the ears of the 
groundlings. Bully Bottom, having 
ranted to his heart’s content, says, 
“ That is Ercles’ vein, a tyrant’s vein,” 
(See Heron.) 

Terpsichore (properly Zerp-sik'-0-re, 
but often pronounced  7Zerp'-si-core). 
The goddess of dancing. TZerpsichore'an, 


relating to dancing. Dancers are called 
‘the votaries of 'Terpsichore.”’ 


Terra Firma. Dry land, in oppo- 
sition to water; the continents as dis- 
tinguished from islands. The Venetians 
so called the mainland of Italy under 
their sway; as, the Duchy of Venice, 
Venetian Lombardy, the March of Tre- 
viso, the Duchy of Friu’li, and Istria. 
The continental parts of America be- 
longing to Spain were also called by the 
same term. 


Terrestrial Sun (7hat). Gold, 
which in alchemy was the metal cor- 
responding to the sun, as silver did to 
the moon. (Sir Thomas Browne: Re- 
ligio Medici, p. 149, 3.) 


Terrible (Zhe). Ivan IV. {or 11.] 
of Russia. (1529, 1588-1584.) 


Terrier is a dog that ‘takes the 
earth,’’ or unearths his prey. Dog Tray 
is merely an abbreviation of the same 
word. ‘Terrier is also applied to the 
hole which foxes, badgers, rabbits, and 
so on, dig under ground to save them- 
selves from the hunters. The dog called 
a terrier creeps into these holes like a 
ferret to rout out the victim. (Latin, 
terra, the earth.) Also a land-roll or 
description of estates. 

τ There are short- and lon:-haired terriers 

(1) Short-haived: the black-and-tan, the schip- 
perke, the bull-terrier, and the fox-terrier. 

(2) Long-haived: the Bedlington, the Dandy 
Dinmont, and the Irish, Scotch, and YorksLire 
terrier. 

Terry Alts. Insurgents of Clare, 
who appeared after the Union, and com- 
mitted numerous outrages, These rebels 
were similar to ‘‘ the Thrashers’’ of Con- 
naught, *‘ the Carders,’’ the followers of 
“‘Captain Rock”? in 1822, and the 
Tenians (1869). 


Ter'tium Quid. A third party which 
shall be nameless. The expression ori- 
ginated with Pythago’ras, who, defining 
bipeds, said — 

“Sunt bipes homo, et avis, et tertinin quid.” 

“A manisa biped,soisabirdandathird thing 
Qvhich shall be nameless).” 

Tamblichus says this third thing was 
Pythagoras himself. (Jvta LPyth., 
CXXVii.) 

In chemistry, when two substances 
chemically unite, the new substance is 
called a ον λίην guid, as a neutral salt 
produced by the mixture of an acid and 
alkali. 

Terza Rima. A poem in triplets, in 
which the second or middle line rhymes 
with the first and third lines of the suc- 
ceeding triplets. In the beginning of 


Tesserarian Art 


the poem lines 1 and 3 rhyme indepen- 
dently, and the poem must end with the 
first line of a new triplet. Dante’s 
Divine Comedy is in this metre, and 
Byron has adopted it in Zhe Prophecy of 


Dante. The scheme is as follows :— 
—la - 
x2a - feel------- (a new rhyme for 1b and 3b). 
—3a - 
1b - heal 
x2b- - - - cries - - - - (a@newrhyme for 16 and 4c). 
3b - steal 
lc - - - - skies 
xte------- place - (anew rhyme for 1d and 3d). 
3c - arise 
1d - --- race 
ΧΕ - ---- (anew rhyme for le and 3e). 
3d - - space 
etc. ete. 


Tesserarian Art. The art of gamb- 
ling. (Latin, fessera, a die.) 

Tester. A sixpence. Called testone 
(teste, a head) because it was stamped on 
one side with the ead of the reigning 
sovereign. Similarly, the head canopy 
of a bed is called its tester (Italian, festa ; 
French, teste, ¢éte). Copstick in Dutch 
means the same thing. Worth 12d. in 
the reign of Henry VIITI., but 6d. in the 
reign of Elizabeth. 

© Hold, there's a tester for thee.’—Shalkespewre : 
2 Henry ΤΣ ili. 

Testers ave gone to Oxford, to study at 
Brazenose, When Henry VIII. debased 
the silver testers, the alloy broke out in 
red pimples through the silver, giving 
the royal likeness in the coin a blotchy 
appearance ; hence the punning proverb. 


Téte-a-téte. 
sation. 

Téte Bottée [Booted Head]. 
nickname of Philippe des Comines. 


“You, Sir Philip des Comines, were at a hunt- 
ing-match with the duke your inaster ; and when 
he ‘alighted after the chase, he required your ser- 
vices in drawing off his boots. Reading in your 
Jooks some natural resentment, he ordered you to 
sit down in turn, and rendered you the same 

Office... .. but . . . no sooner had he plucked one 
bf your boots off than he brutally beat it about 
your head. ...and his privileged fool Le Glorieux 
gave you the name of 126 Bottee.”—Sir W. Scott : 
Quentin Durward, chap. Xxx. 

Tete du Pont. The barbican or 
watch-tower placed on the head of 
drawbridge. 


Tether. [He has come to the end of his 
tether. He has outrun his fortune; he 
has exhausted all his resources. The 
reference is to a cable run out to the 
bitrer end (sce BrrrER END), or to the 
lines upon lines in whale fishing. If the 
whale runs out all the lines it gets away 
and is lost. 

Horace calls the end of life ‘‘ w/tima 
linea rerum,’ the end of the goal, refer- 
ring to the white chalk mark at the end 
of a racecourse. 


A confidential conver- 


The 


1216 


Teutonic Knights 


Teth'ys. The sea, properly the wife 
of Oce'anos. 

“The golden sun above the watery bed 

Of hoary Tethys raised his heamy head.” 
Hoole’s Ariosto, Wk. viii. 

Tetragram’maton. ‘The four let- 
ters, meaning the four which compose 
the name of Deity. The ancient Jews 
never pronounced the word Jehovah 
composed of the four sacred letters 
JHVH. The word means ‘‘I am,” or 
“T exist’? (Exod. iii, 14); but Rabbi 
Bechai says the letters include the three 
times—past, present, and future. Pytha- 
goras called Deity a Tetrad or Tetractys, 
meaning the ‘‘ four sacred letters.” 


The words in different languages :— 
Arabic, ALLA. 
Assyrian, ADAD. 
Brahmins, JOss. 
Danish, GODH. 
Duteh, Govt. 
East Indian, ZEUL and ESAT. 
Egyptian, ZEUT, AUMN, AMON. 
French, Dik 
Gorman, GO Lid 
Greek, ZEUS. 
Hebrew, JAVH, ADON. 
Trish, DICH. 
Italian, IDLO. 
Japanese, ZAIN. 
Latin, DEUS. 
Malayan, EESF. 
Persian, SORU, SYRA. 
Peruvian, LUAN. 
Scandinavian, ODIN: 
Spanish, Dios. 
Sivedish, OODD, GOTH. 
Syriac, ADAD. 
Tahitan, ATUA. 
Tarturian, TYAN, 
Turkish, ADDI. 
Vaudois, DLOU. 
Wallachian, SEUE. 


‘Such was the sacred Tetragrammaton. 
Things worthy silence must not be revealed.” 
Dryden: Britannia Redivinva. 


[We have the Egyptian @wv9, like the 
Greek Geos. ] 


Tetrapla. The Bible, disposed by 
Origen under four columns, each of 
which contained a different Greek ver- 
sion. The versions were those of Aquila, 
Symmachus, Theodosian, and the Sep- 
tuagint. 


Teucer. Brother of Ajax the Greater, 
who went with the allied Greeks to the 
siege of Troy. On his return home, his 
tather banished him the kingdom for not 
avenging on Ulysses the death of his 
brother. (Homer: Iliad.) 


Teutons. Thuath-duiné (north men). 
Our word Dutch and the German Deiisch 
are variations of the same word, origin- 
ally written Theodish. 


Teutonic Knights. An order which 
the Crusades gave birth to. Originally 
only Germans of noble birth were ad- 
missible to the order. (Abolished by 
Napoleon in 1800.) ; 


Ry 


1217 


That 


Th (0, theta). The sign given in the 
verdict of the Areopagus of condemna- 
tion to death (θάνατος). 

“Et potis es vitio nigrum prefigere theta,’— 
Persius. μὲ 

++ T (τελέωσις) meant absolution, and 
A =xnon liquet. Inthe Roman courts C 
meant condemnation, A absolution, and 
N L (non liguet) remanded. 


Thais (2 syl.). An Athenian courte- 
san who induced Alexander, when ex- 
cited with wine, to set fire to the palace 
of the Persian kings at Persep’olis, 


“ The king seized a flamheau with zeal to destroy ; 
Thais led the way to light him to his prey, 
And, like another Helen, firedanother Troy.” 


Dryden : Alexander's least. 
Thal/aba. The Destroyer, son of 
Hodei'rah and Zei’nab (Zeno'bia) ; hero 
of a poem by Southey, in twelve books. 


Thales. (Sce SEVEN SAGES.) 


Thales‘tris. Queen of the Am’azons, 
who went with 300 women to meet Alex- 
ander the Great, under the hope of rais- 
ing a race of Alexanders, 

“This was no Thalestris from the fields, but a 
quiet domestic character from the fireside.”—C. 
Bronté’s Shirley, chap. Xxvili. 

Thali’a. One of the muses, generally 
regarded as the patroness of comedy. 
She was supposed by some, also, to pre- 
side over husbandry and planting, and is 
represented leaning on a column holding 
a mask in her right hand, ete. 


Thames (1 syl.). The Latin Zham- 
esis (the broad Isis, where isis is a mere 
variation of es, ouse, wisg, etc., meaning 
water). The river Churn unites with the 
Thames at Cricklade, in Wiltshire, where 
it was at one time indifferently called the 
Thames, Isis, or Thamesis. ‘Thus, in the 
Saxon Chronicle we are told the East 
Aneglians ‘‘ overran all the land of Mercia 
till they came to Cricklade, where they 
forded the Thames.’”’ In Camden’s 
Britannia mention is made of Summer- 
ford, in Wiltshire, on the east bank of 
the ‘Isis’? (cajus vocabuliun Temis juxcta 
vadum, qui appellatur Summerford). 
Canute also forded the Thames in 1016 
in Wiltshire. Hence Thames is not a 
compound of the two rivers Thame and 
Isis at their junction, but of Thamesis. 
Tham is a variety of the Latin ais, 
seen in such words as North-ampton, 
South-ampton, Tam-worth, etc. Pope 
perpetuates the notion that Thames = 
‘Thame and Isis in the lines— 


** Around his throne the sea-born brothers stood ; 
Who swell with tributary urns his flood :— 
First the famed authors of his ancient name, 
The winding 1515 and the fruitful Thame ! 

The Kennet swift, for silver eels renowned ; 
The Loddon slow, with verdant alders crowned ; 


77 


Coles whose dark streams his flowery islands 
ave; 

And chalky Wey that rolls a milky wave ; 

The blue transparent Vandalis appears ; 

The gulphy Lee bis sedgy tresses rears ; 

And sullen Mole that hides his diving flood ; 

And silent Darent stained with Danish blood.” 

Pope: Windsor Forest. 

He'll never set the Thames on fire. He'll 
never make any figure in the world; 
never plant his footsteps on the sands of 
time. The popular explanation is that 
the word 7hames is a pun on the word 
temse, a corn-sieve ; and that the parallel 
French locution He will never set the 
Seine on fire is a pun on seine, a drag-net ; 
but these solutions are not tenable. 
There is a Latin saw, “ Tiberim accendére 
nequaquam potest,’ which is probably 
the fons et origo of other parallel sayings. 
Then, long before our proverb, we had 
“To set the Rhine on fire” (Den Rhein 
anzinden), 1630, and Er hat den Rhein 
wid das Meer angezundet, 1580. 

τ There are numerous similar phrases : as “ He 
will never set the Liffey on fire τ᾿ to “set the 
Trent on fire ;” to “set the Humber on fire ;” ete. 
Of course it is possible to set water on fire. but 
the scope of the proverb lies the other way,and it 
may take its place beside such sayings as “ If the 
sky falls we may catch larks.” 

Tham’muz. The Syrian and Pheeni- 
cian name of Ado’nis. His death hap- 
pened on the banks of the river Adonis, 
and in summer-time the waters always 
become reddened with the hunter’s 
blood. (See Ezekiel viii. 14.) 

“Thammuz came next behind, 

Whose annual wound on Lebanon allured 
The Syrian damsels to Jament his fate 
In amorous ditties all a summer's day, 
While smooth Adonis from his native rock 
Ran purple to the sea, supposed with blood 
Of Thammuz yearly wounded.” 

Milton: Paradise Lost, bk. 111. 446-452. 

Tham’yris. A Thracian bard men- 
tioned by Homer (Lliad, ii. 595). He 
challenged the Muses to a trial of skill, 
and, being overcome in the contest, was 
deprived by them of his sight and power 
ofsong. He isrepresented with a broken 
lyre in his hand. 

“ Blind Thamyris and blind Meon/idés [Homer], 

And Tivesias and Phineus, prophets old.” 

Milton: Paradise Lost, iil. 35-55. 

“+ “ Tiresias’’ pronounce 7v'-re-sas ; 

‘«Phineus ’’ pronounce Li'nvce. 


That. Seven ‘thats’? may follow 
each other, and make sense. 
“ For be it known that we may safely write 
Or say that ‘ that that* that that man wrote was 
right ; 
Nay, e’en that that that, that ‘that THAT’ has 
followed, 
Through six repeats, the grammar’s rule has 
hallowed ; 
And that that that that that ‘that THAT’ 
began 
Repeated seven times is right, deny’t who can.” 
“My lords, with humble submission that that I 
say is this: That that that ‘that that’ that that 
gentleman has advanced is not that that he 
should haye proved to your lordships.’”"—Spectator, 
No, 86. 


That's the Ticket 


1218 cs 


Theist 


That’s the Ticket. That’s the nght 
thing to do; generally supposed to be a 
corruption of ‘* That’s the etiquette,’’ or 
proper mode of procedure, according to 
the programme; but the expanded 
phrase ‘‘ That’s the ticket for soup”’ 
seems to allude to the custom of showing 
a ticket in order to obtain a basin of 
soup given in charity. 


Thatch. A straw hat. A hat being 
called a tile, and the word being mis- 
taken for a roof-tile, gave rise to several 
synonyms, such as roof, roofing, thatch, 
ete. 

Thau matur’gus. A miracle-workcr; 
applied to saints and others who are 
reputed to have performed miracles. 
(Greek, thauma ergon.) 

Prince Alexander of Hohenlohe, whose 
power was looked upon as miraculous, 

Apollonius of Tywna, Cappadocia (Aa.d. 
3-98). (See his Life, by Philos'tratus.) 

St. Bernard of Clairvans, called * the 
Thaumaturgus of the West.’’ (1091- 
1153.) 

St. Francis d@ Assisi, founder of the 
Franciscan order, (1182-122.) 

J. Joseph Gassner, of Bratz, in the 
Tyrol, who, looking on disease as a pos- 
session, exorcised the sick, and his cures 
were considered miraculous. (1727- 
1779.) 

Gregory, Bishop of Neo-Cesare'a, in 
Cappado’cia, called emphatically ‘the 
Thaumaturgus,” from the numerous 
miracles he is reported to have per- 
formed, (212-270.) 

St. Isidorus. (See his Life, by Damas- 
cius.) 

Jannes and Jambres, the magicians of 
Pharaoh who withstood Moses. 

Blaise Pascal. (1623-1662.) 

Yot'nus, and several other Alexan- 
drine philosophers. (205-270.) (See the 
Life of Plotinus, by Porphyry.) 

Proclus. (412-415.) (See his Life, by 
Marinus. ) 

Simon Magus, of Samaria, called 
ἰὴ Great Power of God,”’ (Acts viii. 

Several of the Sophists. (See Lives of 
the Philosophers, by Eunapius. ) 

Sospitra possessed the omniscient 
power of seemg all that was done in 


every part of the globe. (Lwunuapius: 
(deseus.) 
Vineent de Paul, founder of the 


“Sisters of Charity.’”’ (1576-1660.) 

* Peter Schott has published a treatise 
on natural magic called Lhaumaiurgus 
Physicus. (See below.) 

Lhaunaturgus,  Filuména is called 


Thaumaturga, asaint unknown till 1802, 
when a grave was discovered with this 
inscription on tiles: ‘‘ LUMENA PAXTE 
CYMII, Which, being rearranged, makes 
Pax tecum Filumena. Filumena was at 
once accepted as a saint, and so many 
wenders were worked by ‘her’ that 
she has been called La Thawmnaturge du 
Dixneuviéme Siecle. 


Theag’enes and Charicle’a. Thie 
hero aud heroine of an erotic romance in 
Greek by Heliodo'rus, Bishop of Trikka 
(fourth century). 


Theban Bard or Eagle. 
born at Thebes. (8.6. 518-489.) 


Theban Legion. The legion rais:d 
in the Thebais of Egypt, and composed 
of Christian soldiers, led by St. Maurice. 
This legion is sometimes caled ‘ the 
Thundering Legion” (4.v.). 


Thebes (1 syl.), called The Ilundred- 
Gated, was not Thebes of Beotia, but of 
Thebais of Egypt, which extended cver 
tweuty-three miles of land. Homer says 
out of each gate the Thebans could seud 
forth 200 war-chariots. (Egyptian, 
Taape or Taouah, city of the sun.) 

“The mae great empress on the Egyptian 
That ἘΣ ΩΕ her conqrests o'er a thousand 
states, 
And pours her heroes through a hundred gates, 
Two hundred borsemen and two Lundred cars 
From cach wide portal issuing to the wars.” 
Pope: liad, i. 

Thec'la (S/.), styled in Greek mar- 
tyrologies the pro.o-mariyress, as St. 
Stephen is the profo martyr. All that is 
known of her is from a book called the 

vriods, or Acts of Paul and Theela, pro- 
nounced apocryphal by Pope Gela’sius, 
and unhappily lost. According to the 
legend, Thecla was born of a noble 
family in Ico’nium, and was converted 
by the preaching of St. Paul. 


Theist, Deist, Atheist, Agnestic. 
A theist believes there is a God who 
made and governs all creation; but does 
not believe in the doctrine of the Trinity, 
nor in a divine revelation. 

A <dcist believes there is a God wlio 
created all things, but docs not believe 
in His superintendence and government. 
He thinks the Creator implinted in all 
things certain immutable laws, called the 
Laws of Nature, which act per se, as a 
watch acts without the supervision of its 
maker. Like the theist, he does not 
believe in the doctrine of the ‘Trinity, 
nor in a divine revelation. 

The atheist disbelieves even the ex- 
istence of a God. He thinks matter 1s 


Piadar, 


Thelusson Act 


1219 


Theseus 


eternal, and what we call ‘ creation ”’ 
the result of natural laws, 

The agnostic believes ouly what is 
knowable. He rejects revelation and 
the doctrine of the Trinity as ‘ past 
human understanding.’’ He is neither 
tieist, deist, nor atheist, as a!l these 
are past understanding. 


Thelusssn Act. The 39th and 4 th 


George 111 ‘cap. 98.. An Act to 
prevent testators from leaving their 


property to accumulate for more than 
twenty-one years. So called because it. 
was passed in reference to the Jast will 
and testament of the late Mr. Thelusson, 
in which he desized his property to be 
invested till it had accumulated to some 
nineteen millions sterling. 


The'nct. An old shepherd who re- 
lates to Cuddy the fable of The Oak and 
the Briar, with the view of curing him 


of his vanity. (Spenser: Shepherd's 
Calendar.) 
Theocritus. The Scottish Theocritus. 


Allan Ramsay, author of The Gentle 


Shepherd. (1685-1758.) 


Theod’cmas. A famous trumpeter 
at the siege of Thebes. 


“At every court ther cam lond menstralcye 
That never tromped Joab for to heere, 
Ne he Theodemas yit ha'f so cleere 
At The)és, when the cité was in doute.” 
Chaucer: Canterbury Tales, 9592. 


Theodora (in (@rlando Furioso), 
sister of Constantine, the Greek Iim- 
peror. Greatly enraged against Roge’ro, 
who slew her son, she vowed vengeance. 
Rogero, captured during sleep, being 
committed to her hands, : she cast him 
into a foul dungeon, and fed him on the 
bread of affliction till Prince Leon re- 
leased him. 


Theod orick. Cne of the heroes of 
the Nibeling, a legend of the Sagas. 
This king of the Goths was also selected 
as the ceutre of a set of champions by 
the German minnesangers (jvs/re/s), 
but he is called by these romancers 
Diderick of Bern (Verona). 


Theon’s Tooth. The bite of an ill- 
natured or carping critic. “ Dente The- 
anino eivcunrod:,”’ to be nastily aspersed. 
(Horace: Episties, i. 18, 82.) Theon 
Was a carping grammatrian of Rome. 


Theosophy (the society was founded 
in November, 1875). It means divine 
wisdom, the ‘wisdom religion,’ the 
“hidden wisdom.’’ It is borrowed from 
Ammonius Saceas of the third century 
A.D. Theosophists tell us there has ever 
been a body of knowledge, touching the 


universe, known to certain sages, and 
communicated by them in doles, as the 
world was able to bear the secrets. Cer- 
tauly Esdras supports ths hypothesis. 
Of the two hundred books Jehovah 
said :— 

“The firs’ that thou hast written publish openl- 
that the worthy [esoterics] and the unworthy [e x- 
oter.cs] may read it; but keep the seventy last 
that thou mayst deliver them only to such as be 
Wse among the people, for in them is wisdom 
and the stream of knowledge.”—2 Esdras xiv. 
45-47. 

“At my first approach to the ‘Wisdom Reli- 
gion, 1 rather resented the necessity of having 
to master the profusion of technical terms which 
Madime Blavatsky very freely s rnkles al out 
her Ken to sheosophy, such as DAVACHAN ΒΡ, 
ATMA, MANAS, SAMADHI, etc.”"—F’. J. Gould. 

Therapeu'tze. The Therapeute cf 
Philo were a branch of the Essenes. 
The word Essenes is Greek, and means 
“doctors”? (essaiov), and 'Therapeutie is 
merely a synonym of the same word 


Theresa. Daughter of the Count 
Palatine of Pado’'lia, beloved by Ma- 
zeppa. The count, her father, was very 
indignant that a mere page should pre- 
sume to fall in love with his daughter, 
and had Mazeppa bound to a wild herse 
and set adrift. As for Theresa, Mazeppa 
never knew her future history. Theresa 
was historically not the daughter, Lut 


the young wife, of the fiery ccunt. 
(Byron: Mazeppi.) 


Thermidorians. Those who tceok 
part in the coap d'état which effectel 
the fall of Robespierre, with the desire 
of restoring the legitimate monarchy. 
So called because the Reign of Terror 
was brought to an end on the ninth 
Thermidor of the second Republican 
year (July 27th, 1794). Ther’midor cr 
** Hot Month” was from July 19th to 


August 18th. (Duval: Souvenirs Ther 
midoriens.) 
Thersi'tes. A deformed, scurrilors 


officer in the Greek army which went 
to the siege of Troy. He was always 
railing at the chiefs, and one day 
Achilles felled him to the earth with 
his fist and killed him. (Homer: Ihad.) 


“ He squinted, halted, ribbous was behind. 
And pinched before, and on his tapering bead 
Grew patches only of the fluns est down, 
Him Greece had sent to Troy, 
The miscreant, w τ shamed his « ‘ountry most.” 


Cowper's Translation, hook i’. 
«1 Thersites, A dastardly, malevolent, 
impudent railer 


against the powers that 
be. (Sve above.) 


Theseus (2 syl.). Lord and governor 
of Athens, called by Chaucer Duke The- 
seus. He married Hippol'ita, and as he 
returned home with his bride, and Emily 
her sister, was accosted by a crowd of 


Thespians 


1220 


Thirteen Unlucky 


female suppliants, who complained of 
Creon, King of Thebes, The Duke forth- 
with set out for Thebes, slew Creon, 
and took the city by assault. Many 
captives fell into his hands, amongst 
whom were the two knights named Pal’- 
amon and Arcite (q.v.). (Chaucer: The 
Knight's Tale.) 


The Christian Theseus. Roland the 
Paladin. 
Thes'pians. Actors. (See below.) 


Thes pis, Thes pian. Dramatic. Thes- 
pis was the father of Greek tragedy. 
“The race of learned men, 
_. oft they snatch the pen, 
As if inspired, and ina Thespian rage ; 
Then write.” 
Thomson: Castle of Indolence, ¢. i. 52. 
*“Thespis, the first professor of our art, 
At country wakes sang ballads from a cart.” 
Diuden: Prologue to Sophonisha. 


Thessalian. Deceitful, fraudulent; 
hence Θεσσαλῶν νόμισμα = fraud or deceit. 
ΘεσσάλῶΩῶν σόφισμα = double dealing, re- 
ferring to the double-dealing of the 
Thessalians with their confederates, a 
notable instance of which occurred in 
the Peloponnesian War where, in the 
very midst of the battle, they turned 
sides, deserting the Athenians and going 
over to the Lacedzemonians. The Lo- 
crians had a similar bad repute, whence 
Λοκρῶν σύνθημα; but of all people, the 
Spartans were most noted for treachery. 

Thes’tylis. Any rustic maiden. In 
the Jdylls of Theoc’ritos, Thestylis is a 
young female slave. 


“ And then in haste her bower she leaves, 
With Thestylis to bind the sheaves.” 
Milton: L’ Allegro. 


Thick. Through thick and thin (Dry- 
den). Through evil and-through good 
report; through stoggy mud and stones 
only thinly covered with dust. 

“Through perils both of wind and limb 

she followed him through thick and thin.” 


: _ Butler: Hudibras. 
* “Thick and thin blocks’? are 


pulley blocks with two sheaves of differ- 
ent thickness, to accommodate different 
sizes of ropes. 

Thick-skinned. Not sensitive; not 
irritated by rebukes and slanders. Thin- 
skinned, on the contrary, means im- 
patient of reproof or censure ; their skin 
is so thin if annoys them to be touched. 

Thief. (Svc Autorycus, Cacus, etc.) 

Thieves’ Latin. Slang ; dog, or dog’s 
Latin ; gibberish. 

“What did actually reach his ears was dis- 
suised so completely by the use of cant words 
and the thieves’ Latin, called slang, that he... 
could make no sense of the conversation.’—Sir 
W. Scott: Redgauntlet, chap. xiii. 

“He can vent Greek and Hebrew as fast as I 


can thieves’ Latin.’—Sir W. Scott: Kenilworth, 
ehap. xxix, 


Thieves on the Cross, called Ges- 
mas (the impenitent) and Desmas (after- 
wards ‘St. Desmas,’’ the penitent thief) 
in the ancient mysteries. Hence the 
following charm to scare away thieves: 
“ Tmpartibus meritis pendent tria corpora ramis 

Desmas et Gesmas, media est divina potestas ; 

Alta petit Desmas, infelix, infima, Gesinas : 

Nos et res nostras conservet summa potestas, 

Hos versus dicas, ne tu furto tua perdas.” 

Thimble. Scotch, Zhiwmnmie, origin- 
ally ‘‘ Thumb-bell,’’ because it was worn 
on the thumb, as sailors still wear their 
thimbles. It is a Dutch invention, in- 
troduced into England in 1695 by John 
Lofting, who opened a thimble manu- 
factory at Islington. 


Thimble-rig. A chcat. The cheat- 
ing game so called is played thus: A 
pea is put ona table, and the conjurer 
places three or four thimbles over it in 
succession, and then sets the thimbles on 
the table. You are asked to say under 
which thimble the pea is, but are sure to 
guess wrong, as the pea has been con- 
cealed under the man’s nail. 


Thin-skinned. 
SKINNED. ) 


Thin Red Line (Zc). The old 
93rd Highlanders were so described at 
the battle of Balaclava by Dr. W. H. 
Russell, because they did not take the 
trouble to form into square. ‘* Bala- 
clava’’ is one of the honour-names-on 
their colours, and their regimental 
magazine is named Zhe Thin Red Line. 


Thin as a Whipping-post. As a 
lath; asa wafer, (Sve SIMILES.) 

“T assure you that, for many weeks afterwards, 
I was as thin as a whipping-post.”—Kingston: 
The Three Admirals, chap. V1. 

“*T wish we had something to eat,’ said Tom. ‘I 
shall grow as thin asa whipping-post ... I sus- 
pect.’"—Ningston: The Three Admirals, chap. Xi. 

Think about It (/’//). A courteous 
refusal, When the sovereign declines 
to accept a bill, the words employed are 
Le vot (or la reine) savisera. 


Thirteen Unlucky. The Turks so 
dislike the number that the word is al- 
most expunged from their vocabulary. 
The Italians never use it in making up 
the numbers of their lotteries. In Paris 
no house bears the number, and persons, 
called Quartorziennes (g.v.), are reserved 
to make a fourteenth at dinner parties. 

“ Jamais on ne devrait 
Se mettre a table treize, 
Mais douze c'est parfait.” 
La Mascotte (an opera), i. 5. 

Sitting down thirteen at dinner, in old 
Norse mythology, was deemed unlucky, 
because at a banquet in the Valhalla, 


(See above, Tut¢0cK- 


Thirteens 


Loki once intruded, making thirteen 
guests, and Baldur was slain. 

In Christian countries the superstition 
was confirmed by the Last Supper of 
Christ and His twelve apostles, but the 
superstition itself is much anterior to 


Christianity. 
Twelve at a dinner table, supposing one sits at 
the head of the table and one at the bottom, gives 


a party to these two, provided a couple is div ided ; 
but thirteen, like any other odd number, is a uni- 
corn. 


Thirteens. Throwing the thirteens 
about. A thirteen is an Irish shilling, 
which, prior to 1825, was worth 19 
pence, and many years after that date, 
although reduced to the English stan- 
dard, went by the name of ‘‘thirteens.”’ 
When Members of Parliament were 
chaired after their election, it was by no 
means unusual to carry a bag or two of 
“thirteens,’? and scatter the money 
amongst the crowd, 


Thirteenpence-halfpenny. A 
haneman. So called because thirteen- 
pence-halfpenny was at one time his 
wages for hanging aman. (See Hane- 
MAN.) 

Thivty. A man at thirty must be 
either a fool or a physician. (Z'iber ius.) 

Thirty Tyrants. The thirty magis- 
trates appointed by Sparta over Athens, 
at the termination of the Peloponnesian 
war. This ‘‘ reign of terror,’’ after one 
year’s continuance, was overthrown by 
Thrasybu’los (B.c. 403). 

The Thirty Tyrants of the Roman 
empire. So those military usurpers are 
called who endeavoured, in the reigns 
of Vale’rian and Gallienus (253-268), to 
make themselves independent princes. 
The number thirty must be taken with 
ereat latitude, as only nineteen are 


given, and their resemblance to the 
thirty tyrants of Athens is extremely 
fanciful, They were— 
Inthe Lust. Tilyricum. 
(1) Cyri/ade s. (11) Ingen‘uus. 
(2) Maeria‘nus. (12) Regillianus. 
(3) Balista. (13) Aure’olus, 
ey - 
) paens ob ne. Promiscuous. 
(14) Saturni’nus in Pon 
Ε tus.) 
Tn the West. (15) Trehellia/nus in Ts- 
(6) Post/humus. auria 
(7) Lollia’nus. (16) Piso in Thessaly. 
(8) Victori/‘nusand his | (17) Va‘lens in Achaia. 
mother Victoria, Qs) Emilia’/nus in 
(9) Ma’rius. Egypt. 


(0) Tet’ricus., (19) Celsus in Africa, 


Thirty Years’ War. A series of 
wars between the Catholics and Protes- 
tants of Germany in the seventeenth 
century. It began in Bohemia in 1618, 
and ended in 1648 with the ‘‘ peace of 
Westphalia.” 


1221 


Thistle of Scotland 


Thisbe. A Babylonish maiden be- 
loved by Piramus. They lived in eon- 
tiguous houses, and as their parents 
would not let them marry, they con- 
trived to converse together through a 
hole in the garden wall. On one occa- 
sion they agreed to meet at Ninus’ tomb, 
and Thisbe, who was first at the spot, 
hearing a lion roar, ran away in a fright, 
dropping her carment on the way. The 
lion seized the garment and tore it. 
When Piramus arrived and saw the gar- 
ment, he concluded that a lion had eaten 
Thisbe, and he stabbed himself. Thisbe 
returning to the tomb, saw Piramus 
dead, and killed herself also. This story 
is travestied in the Midsummer Neght’s 
Dream, by Shakespeare. 


Thistle (Zhe). ‘The species called 
Silybun Maridnum, we are told, owes 
the white markings on its leaves to the 
milk of the Virgin Mary, some of which 
fell thereon and left a white mark be- 
hind. (See CHRISTIAN TRADITIONS. ) 

Thistles are said to be a cure for 
stitch in the side, especi: ally the species 
called “ Our Lady’ s Thistle.’ Accord- 
ing to the Doctrine of Signatures, Nature 
has labelled every plant, and the prickles 
of the thistle tell us the plant is effica- 
cious for prickles or stitches in the side. 
(See TURMERIC.) 


Thistle Beds. Withoos, a Dutch 
artist, is famous for his homely pictures 
where thistle-beds abound, 


Thistle of Scotland. The Danes 
thought it cowardly to attack an enemy 
by night, but on one occasion deviated 
from their rule. On they crept, bare- 
footed, noiselessly, and unobserved, when 
one of the men set his foot on a thistle, 
which made him ery out. The alarm 
was given, the Scotch fell upon the 
night-party, and defeated them with 
terrible slaughter. Ever since the thistle 
has been adopted as the insignia of Scot- 
land, with the motto ‘‘ Nemo me UNpuUne 
lucessit.” This tradition reminds us of 
Brennus and the geese. (See a/so STARS 
AND STRIPES. ) 

Thistle. The device of the Scotch 
monarchs was adopted by Queen Anne ; 
hence the riddle in Pope’s pastoral pro- 
posed by Daphnis to Strephon : 
“Tellme...in what more happy fields | 

The thistle springs, to which the lily yields ? 
Pope: Spring. 

In the reign of Anne the Duke of 
Marlborough ‘made the ‘ lily ’’ of France 
eld to the thistle of Queen Anne. The 
ines are a parody of Virgil’s Eclogue, 
ii. 104-108, 


” 


Thomas 1 


20» Thorn in the Flesh 


Thomas (S¢.). Patron saint of archi- 
tects. The tradition is that Gondof'orus, 
king of the Indies, gave him a large sum 
of money to build a palace. St. Thomas 
spent it on the poor, ‘‘thus erecting a 
superb palace in heaven.”’ 

Lhe symbol of St. Thomas is a builder's 
syuare, because he was the patron of 
inasous and architects, 

Ciristians of St. Thomas. In tie 
southern parts of Mal’abar there were 
some 200,000 persons who called them- 
selves ‘* Christians of St. Thomas ’’ when 
Gama discovered India. They had been 
1,300 years under the jurisdicticn of the 
patriarch of Babylon, who appointed 
their materene (archbishop). When 
Gama arrived the head of the Malabar 
Christians was Jacob, who style 1 himselt 
‘* Metropolitan of India and China.”’? In 
1625 a stone was found near Sigantu 
with a cross on it, and containing a list 
of the materenes of India and China. 

Sy Thomas. The dogmatical prating 
syuire in Crabbe’s Borough (letter x.). 


Thomas-2-Kempis. Thomas Ham- 
merlein of Kempen, an Augustinian, in 
the diocese cf Cologne. (1339-1471.) 


Thomas the Rhymer. Thomas 
Learmont, of Ercildoune, a Scotchman, 
in the reign of Alexander ILI., and con- 
temporary with Wallace. He is also 
called Thomas of Eraldonne,. Sir Walter 
Scott calls him the ‘‘ Merlin of Scot- 
111. He was magician, prophet, and 
poet, and is to return again to earth at 
some future time when Shrove Tuesday 
and Good Friday change places. 

“ Care must be taken not to confound 
“Thomas the Rhymer’”? ‘with Thomas 
Rymer, the historiographer and compiler 
of the Iwdera. 


Themasing. In some rural districts 
the custom still prevails of ‘* Thomas- 
ing’’—that is, of collecting small sums 
of money or obtaining drmk from 
the employers of labour on the 21st 
of December—‘* St. Thomas’s Day.”’ 
December 21st is still noted in London as 
that day when every one of the Common 
Council has to be either elected or re- 
elected, and the electors are wholly 
without restriction except as to age and 
sex. The aldermen and their officers are 
not elected on St. Thomas’s Day. 


Thom ists. Followers of Thomas 
Aquinas, who deniel the doctrine of 
the immaculate conception maintained 
by Duns Scotus. 


* Seotis's and Thomists now in peace remain.” 
Lope: Essay on Criticism, 444. 


Thomson (James), author of The 
Seasons and Castle of Indolence, in 1729 
brouzht out the tragedy of Sophonisha, 
in which occurs the silly line: “Ὁ So- 
phonisba, Sophonisba, O !”? which a wag 
in the pit parodied into ‘‘O Jemmy 
Thomson, Jemmy Thomson, O!”? (1700- 
174%.) 


Thone (1 syl.) or Thonis. Governor 
of a province of Egypt. His wife was 
Polydamnia. It issaid by post- Homeric 
poets that Paris took Helen to this pro- 
vince, and that Polydamnia gave her a 
drug named nepenthes to make her forget 
her sorrows, and fill her with joy. 

“Not that nepenthes which the wife of Thone 

In Egypt gave to love-lorn Helena, — 

Is of such power to stir wp joy as this.” 

Milton : Comus, 095-697. 

Tho'pas (Si7). Native of Poperyng 
in Flanders ; a capital sportsman, archer, 
wrestler, and runner. He resolved to 
marry no one but an ‘elf queen,’’ and 
set out for fairy-land. On his way he 
met the three-headed giant Olifaunt, 
who challenged him to single combat, 
Sir Thopas got permission to go back for 
his armour, and promised to meet him 
next day. Here mine host interrupts 
the narrative as “ἢ intolerable nonsense,” 
and the ‘‘rime ”’ is left unfinished. 

“An elf queen wolT have, Το w:s, 
For in this world no woman is 
Worthy to be my mate.” 
Chaucer: Rome of Sir Thopas. 
Thor. Son of Odin, and god of war. 


His αὐ οη τη was THITALFT, the swift runner. 

His belt was MEGINGJARDIR or MEGINJARD, 
which doubled his strength whenever be put it 
on. 

His goats wore CRACK, GRIND, CRASH, and 
CHASER. 

His hammer or mace was M.AOLNTR. 

His palace Was BLUSKIRNIR (Bright Space), 
where fie received the warriors who had fallen in 
Lattle. 

His realm was THRUDVANG, 

His wsfe was StF (Love). 

** He is addressed as Asa Thor or 
Ring Thor (Winged Thor, 7.¢e, Lightning). 
(Seandinavian mythology.) 

The word enters into many names of 
places, ete., as Thorsby in Cumberland, 
Thunderhill in Surrey, Thurso in Caith- 
ness, Torthorwald (1.6. ‘‘ Hill of Thor- 
in-the-wood”’) in Dumfriesshire, Thurs- 
day, ete. 

Thorn. The Conference of Thorn met 
October, 1645, at Thorn, in Prussia, to 
remove the difficulties which separate 
Christians into sects. It was convoked 
by Ladislas 1V. of Poland, but no gocd 
result followed the conference. 


Thorn in the Flesh (4). Something 
to mortify ; a skeleton in the cupboard. 
The allusion is to a custom common 


Thoriis 


amongst the ancient Pharisees, one class 
of which used to insert thorns in the 
borders of their gaberdines to prick their 
legs in walking and make them bleed. 
(See PHARISEES.) 


Thorns. Calvin (Admonitio de Reli- 
qiiis) gives a long list of places claiming 
to possess cne or more of the thorns 
which composed the Saviour’s crown. 
To his list may be added Glastonbury 
Abbey, where was also the spear of 
Longius or Longinus, and some of the 
Virgin’s milk. 

The thorns of Dauphiné will never 
prick anless they prick the first day. 
‘This proverb is applied to natural talent. 
If talent does not show itself early, it 
will never do sc—the truth of which 
application is very doubtful indeed. 

“ Si lespine non pieque quand nai, 
A pene que picqgue jamai.” 
Proveib in Dauphine. 

Thorps-men. Villagers. This very 
pretty Anglo-Saxou word is worth re- 
storing. (Zherpe, Anglo-Saxon, a vil- 
lage.) 


Thoth. The Hermes of Egyptian 
mythology. He is represented with the 
head of an ibis on a human body, He 
i; the inventor of the arts and sciences, 
music and astronomy, speech and let- 
ters. The name means ‘‘ Logos”’ or ‘the 


Word.”’ 


Though Lest to Sight, to Memcry 
Dear. A writer in Harpers Magazine 
tells us that the author of this line was 
Ruthven Jenkyns, and that the poem, 
which consists of two stanzas each of 
eight lines, begins each stanza with 
“Sweetheart, good-bye,’’ and ends with 
the line, ‘‘'Though lost to sight, to 
memory dear.”” ‘The poem was pub- 
lished in the Greenwich Magazine for 
Marines in 1701 or 1702. 


Thousand. Everyone knows that a 
dozen may be either twelve or thirteen, 
a score either twenty or twenty-one, a 
hundred either one hundred or one hun- 
dred and twenty, and a thousand either 
one thousand or one thousand two hun- 
dred. The higher numbers are the old 
Teutonic computations. Hickes tells us 
that the Norwegians and Icelandic people 
have two sorts of decad, the lesser and 
the greater called ‘‘ Tolfreed.’’ The 
lesser thousand =10 x 100, but the greater 
thousand = 12 x 100. The word to/f, 
equal to tolv, is our twelve. (Institutiones 
Gramnatice, p. 43.) 


δ Five score of men, money, or pins, 
Six score of all other things.” Old Saw. 


1223 


Threadnéedle Streét 


Thousand Years as One Day (4). 
(1 Peter iii. 8.) Precisely the same is said 
of Brahma. ‘‘A day ot Brahma isas a 
thousand revolutions of the Yoogs, and 
his might extendeth also to a thousand 
more.” (Aveeshna : Bhagavat Geeta.) 


Thrall. <A slave; bondage; wittily 
derived from drill, in allusion to the 
custom of drilling the ear of a slave in 
token of servitude, a custom common to 
the Jews. (Deut. xv. 17.) Our Saxon 
forefathers used to pierce at the church- 
door the ears of their bond-slaves. 
(Anglo-Saxon, thracl, slave or bondman.) 


Thread. The thread of destiny—i.c. 
that on which destiny depends. The 
Greeks and Romans imagined that a 
grave maiden called Clotho spun from 
her distaff the destiny of man, and as 
she spun one of her sisters worked out 
the events which were in store, and 
At’ropos cut the thread at the poimt 
when death was to occur. 

A St. Themas’s thread. The tale is 
that St. Thomas planted Christianity in 
China, and then returned to Mal’abar. 
Here he saw a huge beam of timber 
floating on the sea near the coast, and 
the king endeavouring, by the force of 
men and elephants, to haul it ashore, 
but it would not stir. St. Thomas de~- 
sired leave to build a church with it, 
and, his request being granted, he drag- 
ged it easily ashore with a piece of 
packthread. (Faria y Sousa.) 

Chicf of the Triple Thread. Chief 
Brahmin. Oso’rius tells us that the 
Brahmins wore a symbolical Tessera of 
three threads, reaching from the right 
shoulder to the left. Faria says that the 
religion of the Brahmins proceeded from 
fishermen, who left the charge of the 
temples to their successors on the con- 
dition of their wearing some threads of 
their nets in remembrance of their voca- 
tion; but Oso’rius maintains that the 
triple thread symbolises the Trinity. 

“Terna fila ab hwmero dex’tero in latus sinis* 
trum gerunt, ut designent trinam 10 natura 
divi/na ratic/nem.” 

Threadneedle Street. <A corrup= 
tion of Thryddanen or Thryddenal Strect, 
meaning third street from ‘‘ Chepesyde”? 
to the great thoroughfare from London 
Bridge to ‘‘ Bushop Gate ’’ (consisting of 
New Fyshe Streate, Gracious Streate, 
and Bushop Gate Streate). (Anglo-Saxon, , 
thrydda or thrydde, third.) 

Another etymology is Thrig-needle 
(three-needie street), from the three 
needles which the Needlemaker’s Com- 
pany bore in their arms. It begins from 


Three 


1224 


Three Sheets 


the Mansion House, and therefore the 
Bank stands in it. 

The Old Lady in Threadneedle Street. 
The directors of the Bank of England 
were so called by William Cobbett, be- 
cause, like Mrs. Partington, they tried 
with their broom to sweep back the At- 
lantic waves of national progress, 

“A silver curl-paper that I myself took off the 
shining locks of the ever-heautiful old lady of 
Threadneedle Street [a bank-note].”—Dickens: 
Dr. Marigold. 

Three. Pythagoras calls three the 
perfect number, expressive of ‘‘ begin- 
ning, middle, and end,’’? wherefore he 
makes it a symbol of Deity. The world 
was supposed to be under the rule of 
three gods, viz. Jupiter (heaven), Nep- 
tune (sea), and Pluto (Hades). Jove is 
represented with three-forked lightning, 
Neptune with a trident, and Pluto with 
a three-headed dog. The Fates are three, 
the Furies three, the Graces three, the 
Harpies three, the Sibylline books three ; 
the fountain from which Hylas drew 
water was presided over by three 
nymphs, and the Muses were three times 
three; the pythoness sat on a tripod. 
Man is three-fold (body, soul, and 
spirit) ; the world is three-fold (earth, 
sea, and air); the enemies of man are 
three-fold (the world, the flesh, and the 
devil) ; the Christian graces are three- 
fold (Faith, Hope, and Charity); the 
kingdoms of Nature are threefold 
(mineral, vegetable, and animal); the 
cardinal colours are three in number 
(red, yellow, and blue), ete. (See NINE, 
which is three times three.) 

*. Even the Bible consists of the Old Testa- 
ment, the New Testament, and the Apocrypha. 
Our laws have to pass the Commons, Lords, and 
Crown. > 

Three Bishoprics (716). So the 
French call the three cities of Lorraine, 
Metz, and Verdun, each of which was at 
one time under the lordship of a bishop. 
They were united to the kingdom of 
France by Henri 11. in 1552. Since the 
Franco-German war they have been at- 
tached to Germany. 


Three-Decker (4). The pulpit, 
reading-desk, and clerk’s desk arranged 
in a church, towering one above the 
other. Now an obsolete arrangement. 

“In the midst of the church stands... the 
offensive structure of pulpit, reading-desk, and 
clerk’s desk; in fact,a regular old three-decker 
in full sail westward."—Zhe Christian Remem- 
brancer, July, 1852, p. 92. 

Three Chapters (712). Three books, 
or parts of three books—one by Theo- 
dore of Mopsuestia, one by Theod’oret 
of Cyprus, and the third by Ibas, Bishop 


- the same anomaly. 


of Edessa, These books were of a Nes- 
torian bias on the subject of the incar- 
nation and two natures of Christ. The 
Church took up the controversy warmly, 
and the dispute continued during the 
reign of Justinian and the popedom of 
Vigilius. In 543 the Three Chapters were 
condemned at the general council of 
Constantinople. 


Three Estates of the Realm are 
the nobility, the clergy, and the com- 
monalty. In the collect for Gunpowder 
Treason we thank God for ‘ preserving 
(1st) the king, and (2nd) the three estates 
af the realm ;’’ from which it is quite 
evident that the sovereign is not one of 
the three estates, as nine persons out of 
ten suppose. These three estates are 
represented in the two Houses of Par- 
liament. (See FourtH Estate.) 


Three Holes in the Wall (77%), to 
which Macaulay alluded in his speech, 
September 20th, 1831, are three holes or 
niches in a ruined mound in the borough 
of Old Sarum, which before the Reform 
sent two members to Parliament. Lord 
John Russell (March, 1831) referred to 
(See Notes and 
Queries, March 14th, 1885, p. 213.) 

Three Kings’ Day. Epiphany or 
Twelfth Day, designed to commemorate 
the visit of the ‘‘ three kings’’ or Wise 
Men of the East to the infant Jesus. (See 
under KINGS. ) 

Three-pair Back (Living wp a). 
Living in a garret, which is got at by 
mounting to the third storey by a back 
staircase. 

Three-quarters or 3. Rhyming 
slang for the neck. This certainly is a 
most ingenious perversion, ‘‘ Three- 
quarters of a peck” rhymes with ech, 
so, in writing, an expert simply sets down 
3. (See CHIvyY.) 

Three R’s (7116). (See under R.) 


Three Sheets in the Wind. Un- 
steady from over-drinking, as a ship 
when its sheets are in the wind. The 
sail of a ship is fastened at one of the 
bottom corners by a rope called a 
‘tack; *’ the other corner is left more 
or less free as the rope called a ‘‘sheet’’ 
is disposed; if quite free, the sheet is 
said to be ‘‘in the wind,’ and the sail 
flaps and flutters without restraint. If 
all the three sails were so loosened, the 
ship would “reel and stagger like a 
drunken man.”’ 


“Captain Cuttle looking, candle in hand, at 
Bunsby more attentively, perceived that he was 
three sheets in the wind, or, in plain words, 
drunk.”—Dickens : Dombey and Son. 


Three-tailed Bashaw 


1225 


Thule 


Three-tailed Bashaw. 
SHAW.) 


Three Tuns. A fish ordinary in 
Billingsgate, famous as far back as the 
reign of Queen Anne. 


Threshers. Members of the Catholic 
organisation instituted in 1806, One ob- 
ject was to resist the payment of tithes. 
Their threats and warnings were signed 
“* Captain Thresher.”’ 


Threshold. Properly the door-sill, 
but figuratively applied to the beginning 
of anything; as, the threshold of life 
(infancy), the threshold of an argument 
(the commencement), the threshold of the 
inquiry (the first part of the investiga- 
tion). (Saxon, tharscwald, door-wood ; 
German, thirschwelle ; Icelandic, thros- 
ulldur. From thir comes our door.) 


Thrift-box. A money-box, in which 
thrifts or savings are put. (See SPEND- 
THRIET.) 


Throgmorton Street (London). So 
named from Sir Nicholas Throckmorton, 
head of the ancient Warwickshire family, 
and chief banker of England in the reign 
of Queen Elizabeth. 


Through-stone (4). A flat grave- 
stone, a stone coffin or sarcophagus, also 
a bond stone which extends over the 
entire thickness of a wall. In archi- 
tecture, called ‘‘ Perpent”’ or ‘‘ Perpend 
Stones”? or ‘ Throughs.’’ (French, 
Pierre parpainge.) 

“Od! he is not stirring yet, mair than he were 


a through-stane."—Sir W. Scott: The Monastery 
(introduction). 


Throw. 170 throw the helve after the 
hatchet. (See HELVE.) 


Throw. Throw lots of dirt, and some 
will stick. Find plenty of fault, and 
some of it will be believed. In Latin, 
Fortiter calunniari, aliquid adherébit. 


Throw Up the Sponge (170). (See 
SPONGE.) 


Throw your Eye on. Give a glance 
at. In Latin, oculos [in aliquem] conjicere, 
“ Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye 
On yon young boy.” 
Shakespeare: King John, iii. 3. 
Throwing an Old Shoe for Luck. 
(See under SHOE.) 


“Now, for goode luck caste an old shoe after 
me.”—Haywood (1693-1756). 


“Ay, with all my heart, there’san old shoe after 
you."—The Parson's Wedding (Dodsley, vol. ix. p. 
49). 


Thrums. Weayer’s ends and fag- 
ends of carpet, used for common rugs. 
(The word is common to many languages, 
as Icelandic, thraum ; German, triwmnin ; 


(See Ba- 


‘and bad together. 


Dutch, drom; Greek, thrumma; all 
meaning ‘‘fag-ends”’ or ‘‘ fragments.’’) 
“ Come, sisters, come, cut thread and thrum ; 


Quail, crush, conclude, and quell Ὁ 
Shakespeare: Midsummer Night's Dream, v.1. 


Thread and thrum. Everything, good 


Thrummy Cap. A sprite described 
in Northumberland fairy tales as a 
“ἐ queer-looking little auld man,’’ whose 
exploits are generally laid in the cellars 
ot old castles, 


Thug [a cheat]. So a religious fra- 
ternity in India was called. ‘Their patron 
goddess was Devi or Kali, wife of Si’va. 
The Thugs lived by plunder, to obtain 
which they never halted at violence or 
even murder. In some provinces they 
were called ‘‘stranglers”’ (phansigars), 
in the Tamil tongue ‘‘noosers’”’ (at 
tulukar), im the Canarese ‘‘ catgut 
thieves”? (tanti kalleru). They banded 
together in gangs mounted on horse- 
back, assuming the appearance of mer- 
chants ; some two or more of these gangs 
concerted to meet as if by accident at a 
giventown. They then ascertained what 
rich merchants were about to journey, 
and either joined the party or lay in wait 
for it. This being arranged, the victim 
was duly caught with a lasso, plundered, 
andstrangled. (Hindu, thaga, deceive.) 


Thuggee (2 syl.). The system of 
secret assassination preached by Thugs; 
the practice of Thugs. 


Thuig or Tuig (Norse). The mounds 
raised by the old Scandinavians where 
their courts were held. The word is met 
with in Iceland, in the Shetlands, and 
elsewhere in Scotland, 


Thule (2 syl.). Called by Drayton 
Thuly. Pliny, Solinus, and Mela take 
it for Iceland. Pliny says, ‘‘It is an 
island in the Northern Ocean discovered 
by Pyth’eas, after sailing six days from 
the Orcadés.’? Others, like Camden, 
consider it to be Shetland, still called 
Thylens-el (isle of Thylé) by seamen, in 
which opinion they agree with Marinus, 
and the descriptions of Ptolemy and 
Tacitus. Bochart says it is a Syrian 
word, and that the Phoenician merchants 
who traded to the group called it Gezirat 
Thulg (isles of darkness). Its certain 
etymology is unknown; it may possibly 
be the Gothic Tiu/e, meaning the ‘‘ most 
remote land,’? and connected with the 
Greek telos (the end). 


“ Where the Northern Ocean, in vast whirls, 
Boils round the naked melancholy isles 
Of farthest Thule,’ _ Thomson: Autumn. 


Thumb 


1226 


Thunder 


Ultima Thulé. The end of the werld ; 
the last extremity. Thule was the most 
northern point known to the ancient 
Romans, 


“Tibi seryiat Ultima Thule. 
Virgil: een 12.30; 


“Peshawar cantonment is the Ultima Thule of 
B itish Indin.’—Nineteenth Οὐ ταν, Oct., 1893, p. 
533. 


Thumb. When a gladiator was van- 
quished it rested with the spectators to 
decide whether he should be slain or 
not. If they wished him to live, they 
shut up their thumbs in their fists (police 
compressa fuvor judicabaiur) » if to be 
slain, they t«ned out their thumbs, 
Adam, in his Roman Antiquities (p. 287), 
says, ‘‘ If they wished him to be saved, 
they pressed down their thumbs ; if to be 
sliun, they tuned up [he'd out] their 
thumbs.”? (Pliny, xxviii. 2; Juvenal, 
iii. 86; Torace: 1 Epist., xviii. 66.) 

It is not correct to say, if they 
wished the man to live they held their 
thumbs downicards ; if to be slain, they 
held their thumbs upwards. “ Police 
compressio”’ means to hold their thumbs 
close. 

“ Where, influenced by the rabble’s bloody w:ll, 

With thumbs bent back, they popularly kill.” 

Dryden: Third Satire, 

By the pricking of my thumbs, some- 
thing wicked this way comes, Another 
proverb says, ‘ My little finger told me 
that.” When your ears turn hot and 
red, it is to indicate that someone is 
speaking about you. When a sudden fit 
Oja* shivering”? oceurs, if is because 
someone is treading on the place which 
is to form your grave. When the ἐγ’ 
itches, it indicates the visit of a friend, 
When the palm itches, it shows that a 
present will shortly be received, When 
the bones ache, it prognosticates a 
coming storm. Plautus says, ‘* Zunco 
quod rerum gesscrim hic ita dorsus totus 
pruvit.”” (ildiles Gloriosus.) All these 
and many similar superstitions rest on 
the notion that “coming events cast 
their shadows before,’’ because our 
“Cangel,”’ ever watchful, forewarns us 
that we may be prepared. Sudden paius 
and prickings are the warnings of evil 
ou the road; sudden glows and pleasur- 
able sensations are the couriers to tell us 
of joy close at hand, These superstitions 
are relics of demonology and witchcraft. 

“In ancient Rome the augurs took spec/al 
notice of the prlpitation of the heart, the flicker- 
ing of the eye and the pricking of the thumb. In 
regard to the last, if the pricking was on the left 
hand it was considereda very bad sign, indicating 
mischief at hand, 

Do you bite your thumb at me? Do 
you mean to insult me? The way of 


ae 


expressing defiance and contempt was 
by snapping the finger or putting the 
thumb in the mouth. Both these acts 
are termed a fico, whence our expressions 
“ Not worth a fig,” “1 don’t care a fig 
for you,”? Decker, describing St. Paul's 
Walk, speaks of the biting of thumbs to 
beget quarrels, (See GLOVE.) 

“T see Contempt marching forth, giving 1105 


the fico with his thombe in his mouth.’— Wits 
Miserie (1596). 


“T will bite my thumb at th em; which is * 
disgrace to them, if they bear it.”—Shakespeare : 
Romeo and Juliet, El: 

Every honest miller has a thumb of gout. 
Even an honest miller grows 1ich with 
what he prigs. Thus Chaucer says of 
his miller— 

“ Wel cowde he stelé and tollen tliries, 
And yet he had a thomb of gold parde [was 


what is called an‘ honest miller’).” 
Canterbury Tales (Prolojue, 565). 


Rule of thumb, Rough measure. 
Ladies often measure yard lengths by 
their thumb. Ind+ed the expression 
‘sixteen nails make a yard’’ seems to 
point to the thumb-nail as a standard. 
Countrymen always measure by their 
thumb. 

Tom Thumb. (See Tom.) 

Under one’s thumb, Under the in- 
fluence or power of the person named. 


Thumb-nail Legacies. Legacies so 
small that they could be written on one’s 
thumb-nail. 

“oPis said, some men may make their wills 
Ou their thumb-nails, for aught they can 


bestow.’ 


P.ter Pindar: Lord B. and iis Motions. 


Thum bikins or Thumbscrew. Au 
instrument of torture largely used by 
the Inquisition. The torture was com- 
pressing the thumb between two bars of 
iron, made to approach each other by 
means of a scre.’. Principal Carstairs 
was the last person put to this torture 
in Britain ; he suffered for half an hour 
at Holyrood, by order of the Scotch 
Privy Council, to wring from him a con- 
fession of the secrets of the Argyll and 
Monmouth parties. 


Thunder. The giant who fell into 
the river and was killed, because Jack 
cut the ropes that suspended the draw- 
bridge, and when the giant ventured to 
cross it. the bridge fell in. (Jack the 

Giant Killer.) 


Thunder (Sons of) [Boaner'gés]. 
James and John, the sons of Zebedee 
(Mark iii. 17). So called because they 
asked to be allowed to consume with 
lightning those who rejected the mission 
of Christ, (Luke ix. 54; Mark iii. 17.) 


Thunder and Lightning 1 


τ Tiburtius’'s Da 


Thunder and Lightning or Ton- 
mans. Stephen Il. of Hungary (1100, 
Lit{1-1131). 


Thunders of the Vatican. The 
apathemas and dennneinr'ions of the 


Pope, 
tome. 

Properly speaking, the Vatican con- 
sists of the Papal pa‘ac2, the court and 
gurilen of Belvedere, the library, and 
the museum, all on the right bank of 
the Tiber. 

Thunderodols of Italy. 
Toix, nephew of Louis Χ 11. (143)-1512.) 


Thunderbolts. Jupiter was depicted 
by the ancients as a man seated on a 
throne, holding a sceptre in his left hand 
and thunderbolts in his right. Modern 
s‘ience has proved there are no such 
things as thunderstones, though many 
tons of bolides (2 syl.), acrolites (3 syl.), 
meteors, or shooting stars (of stony or 
metallic substance) fall annually to our 
earth. These ‘‘ air-stones,’? however, 
hive no connection with thunder and 
lightning. 

* Be ready, gods, with all your thunderiolts ; 

Dash him to pieces !”” ; 

Suakespeare: Julius Cesar, iv. 3. 

Thunderer (716). A name applied 
to Dhe Times newspaper, in allusion to 
an article by Captain Ind. Sterling, be- 
ginning thus :— 

“We thundere 1 forch the other day an article 
onthe sabject of social and political reform.” 
Tae Times. 

Thundering Legion. 
of a thunderstorm which 


whose palace is the Vatican of 


Gaston de 


Under cover 
broke over 


them they successfully attacked the 
Marcomanni, (See Lrcion, 'THEBAN 
ΠΈΘΙΟΧ.) 


* This is a mere legend of no historic value. 
Tlie levion was so calted at least a century before 
the reign of Aure‘iius ; probably because it bore 
on its Shields or ensigus a representation of 
Jupiter Tonans, 

Thun’stone. The successor of King 
Arthur. (Vursery Tule: Tom Thumb.) 


Thursday. That is, Thor's day. In 
French, Jeudi—i.e. Jove’s day. 


Thursday. (Sce BLACK.) 

When three Thursdays meet. 
(q.v.). In French, 
semaine des trois jeudis, 

Maundy Thursday. 
TiunrsDav.) 


Tiara. <A composite emblem. Its 
primary meaning is purity and chastity 
—the foundation bet ing of fine linen. 
The gold band denotes supremacy. The 
first cap of dignity was adopted by Pope 
Damasus 11. in 1018. The cap was 


Never 
“Cela arrivera la 
i) 


(Sve Maunpy 


surmounted with a igh coronet in 1295 
by Boniface VIII. The second coronet 
was added in 1385 by Benedict XII., to 
indicate the prerogatives of spiritual and 
temporal power combined in the Papacy, 
The third coronet is indicative of the 
Trinity, but it is not known who first 
adopted it; some say Urban V., others 
John EXIM John XXIII, or Bene- 
dict Rif. 

~The symbol of my threefold dignity. in heaven, 
wea earth, and ia purgatory.’ —Voepe rus LX, 
(1811). 

The triple crown most likely was in 

imitation of that of the Jewish high 
priest. 


“On his head was a white turban, and over this 
a second striped with dark blue. On his fore- 
head he wore a plate of gold, on which the name 
of Jehovah was inscribed. And, being at once 
high priest and p ince, this was connected with 
a triple crown on the templesand back of the 


head.’—Lldad the Pilgrim, chap. x. 
Tib. St. Til’s Eve. Never. <A cor- 
ruption of St. Ubes. There is no such 


saint in the calendar as St. Ubes, and 
therefore her eve falls on the ‘*‘ Greek 
Kalends’’ (7.v.), neither before Christ- 
mas Day nor atter it. 


Tib and Tom. Tib is the ace of 
trumps, and ‘Tom is the knave of trumps 
in the game of Gleek. 

“That gumester needs must overcome, 
That can play both Vib and Tom.” 
Randolph: Hermaphrodite, p. 610. 

Tiber, called The Yellow T ber, be- 

cause it is discoloured with yellow mud. 
“Verticfous rap’id’s, et multa flavus are’na.” 
Virgil: Afneid, vii. 31. 

Tibul’lus. Zhe French Tibullus. 
Evariste Désiré Desforges, Chevalier de 
Parny (1753-1814). 


Tibur’ce (3 syl.) or Tiburce (2 sy ). 
Brother of Valirian, converted by the 
teaching of St. Cecilia, his sister-in-law. 
and baptised by Pope Urban. Being 
brought before Almachius the prefect, 
and commanded to worship the image of 
Jupiter, both the brothers refused, and 
were decapitated. (Chaucer : Secounde 
Nonnes Tale.) 

“Al this thing sche unto Tiburce told (3 sy1.), 

And after this Tiburce, in good entente (2 syl.), 


With Valiri‘an to Pope Urban wente.” 
Chaucer: Canterbury Tules, 12276. 


Tiburtius’s Day (‘/.). April 14th. 
ae cuckoo sings from St. Tiburtius’s 

Day (April 1: 4th) 1 to St. John’s Day (June 
24th). 

This most certainly is not correct, as I have 
heard the cuckoo eyen in August ; but withovr 


doubt July is the month of its migt: ation sener- 
ally. 


The proverb says: 
“ July, prepares to fly ; August, go he must.” 


+; It is said that he migrates to Egypt. 


Tick 
Tick. 170 go on tick—on ticket. In 
the seventeenth century, ticket was the 
ordinary term for the written acknow- 
ledgment of a debt, and one living on 
credit was said to be living on tick. Bet- 
ting was then, and still is to a great ex- 
tent, a matter of tick—i.¢, entry of par- 
ticulars in a betting-book. We have an 
Act of Parliament prohibiting the use of 
betting tickets: ‘‘ Be it enacted, that if 
any person shall play at any of the said 
games. . . (otherwise than with and for 
ready money), or shall bet on the sides 
of such as shall play . . . a sum of money 
exceeding £100 at any one time. . 
upon ticket or credit . . . he shall,”’ ete. 
(16 Car, IT. cap. 16.) 

“Tf aservant usually buy for the master upon 
tick, and the servant buy some things without the 
master’s order... the master is liable.’—Chief 
Justice Holt (Blackstone, chap. xy. p. 408), 

Ticket. That's the ticket or That’s 
the ticket for soup. 'That’s the right 
thing. The ticket to be shown in order 
to obtain something. Some think that 
the word ‘‘ticket”’ in this phrase is a 
corruption of etiquette. 

What's the ticket 2 
rangement ? 

“Well, said Bob Cross, ‘what's the ticket, 
youngster? Are you to go aboard with us ?"— 
Captain Marryat. 

Ticket of Leave (4). A warrant 
given to convicts to have their liberty on 
condition of good behaviour. 


Tickle the Public (70). When an 
actor introduces some gag to make the 
audience laugh, “ὁ il chatouille le public.” 
One of the most noted chatouilleurs was 
Odry, a French actor, 


Tide-rode, in seaman phrase, means 
that the vessel at anchor is swung about 
by the force of the tide. Metaphorically, 
a person is tide-rode when circumstances 
over which he has no control are against 
him, especially a sudden glut in the 
market. 'Tide-rode, ridden at anchor 
with the head to the tide; wind-vode, 
with the head to the wind. 


Tide-waiters. Those who vote 
against their opinions. 5. G,O. (the 
Rev. Lord Osborne), of the Times, calls 
the clergy in Convocation whose votes do 
not agree with their convictions “ eccle- 
siastical tide-waiters.”’ 


What is the ar- 


Tidy means in fide, in season, in 
time. We retain the word in even-tide, 
spring-tide, and so on. Tusser has the 
phrase, ‘‘If the weather be fair and 
tidy,” meaning seasonable. Things done 
punctually and in their proper season are 
sure to be done orderly, and what is 


1228 


Tigris 


orderly done is neat and well arranged. 
Hence we get the notion of methodical, 
neat, well-arranged, associated with tidy. 
(Danish, ¢idiy, seasonable, favourable.) 

How are you getting on? Oh! pretty 
tidily—tavourably. (See above.) 

A tidy fortune, A nice little bit of 
money. ‘Tidy means neat, and neat 
means comfortable. 


Tied. Tied to your mother’s apron- 
strings. Not yet out of nursery goyern- 
ment ; not free to act on your own 
responsibility. The allusion is to tying 
naughty young children to the mother’s 
or nurse’s apron, 


Tied House (4). A retail shop, 
stocked by a wholesale dealer, and 
managed by some other person not the 
owner of the stock. The wholesale 
dealer appoints the manager. 

“There are tied housesin the drapery, grocery, 
dairy, boot and shoe, hardware, liquor, and book 
trades, ASIEN 1f rumour is to he trusted, ig 
a tied house ; and the majority of Italian restaur- 
ants in London begin by being tied to the Gattis.” 
—Liberty Review, 14th April, 1894, p. 310, col. 1. 

Tied-up. Married; tied up in the 
marriage-knot. 

“When first the marriage-knot was tied 
Between my wife and me.” ι 
Walkingame'’s Arithmetic. 

Tiffin (Indian). Luncheon; refresh- 

ment. (Ziff, a draught of liquor. ) 


Ti ger (4) properly means ‘“‘a gentle- 
man’s attendant, and page a lady’s 
attendant; but the distinction is quite 
obsolete, and any servant in livery who 
rides out with his master or mistress is 
so called ; also a boy in buttons attend- 
ant on a lady, like a page ; a parasite. 

“*Ves,’ she cried gaily over the hanisters, “ my 
fiacre and my tiger are waiting.”—A Fellow of 
Trinity, chap. Xv. 

Tiger-kill (4). An animal tied up 
by hunters in a jungle to be killed by a 
tiger. This is a lure to attract the tiger 
preparatory to a tiger-hunt. 


Tigers. The car of Bacchus was 
drawn by tigers, and tigers are generally 
drawn by artists crouching at the feet of 
Bacchus. Solomon (Prov. xx. 1) says 
‘“‘Strong drink is raging ” (like a tiger). 
In British India a tiger is called ‘‘ Brother 
Stripes.”’ 

Tigernach. Oldest of the Ivish an- 
nalists. His annals were published in 
Dr. O’Connor’s Rerum Hibernicarun 
Scriptores Veteres, at the expense of the 
Duke of Buckingham (1814-1826). 


Tight. Intoxicated. 


Tigris [the Arrow]. 
the rapidity of its current. 


So called from 
Hiddekel is 


Tike 


“‘ The Dekel,” or Diglath, a Semitic cor- 
ruption of 7igra, Medo-Persic for arrow. 
(Gen, 11. 14.) 

“Flu/mini, a celerita’te qua defiuit Tigri nomen 
est; quia Persica lingua, tigrim sagittam appel- 
lant.”—Quintus Curtius, 

Tike. A Yorkshire tike. A clownish 
rustic. In Scotland a dog is called a 
tyke (Icelandic, ¢i/’); hence, a snarling, 
obstinate fellow. 

Tilbert (Sir). 
Reynard the For. 

Tile. A hat. (Anglo-Saxon, ¢ivel ; 
Latin, ¢¢go, to cover.) 


Tile Loose. [He has a tile loos’, He 
is not quite compos mentis ; he is not all 
there. 


Tile a Lodge, in Freemasonry, 
means to close the door, to prevent any- 
one uninitiated from entering. Of 
course, to tile a house means to finish 
building it, and to tile a lodge is to 
complete it. 


Timber-toe (4). 
one with a wooden leg. 


Time. 
man. 
“ For the next inn he spurs vrain, 
In haste alights, and scuds away— 
But time and tide for no man stay.” 
Somerville: The Sweet-scented Miser. 
Take {or Seize| Time by the forelock 
(Tha'lés of Milétus.). Time is represented 
as an old man, quite bald, with the ex- 
ception of a single lock of hair on the 
forehead. Shakespeare calls him ‘ that 
bald sexton, Time.”’ (Hing John, iii. 1.) 
Time is, Time was, Time’s past. Friar 
Bacon made a brazen head, and it was 
said if he heard his head speak he would 
succeed in his work in hand, if not he 
would fail. Aman named Miles was set 
to watch the head, and while Bacon was 
sleeping the head uttered these words : 
‘¢7rME 15; ᾽᾽ and half an hour afterwards 
it said ““ΤΙΜῈ WAS ;”’ after the expiration 
of another half-hour it said ‘‘ TrME’s 
past,’ fell down, and was broken to 
pieces. 
“ Like Friar Bacon's brazen head, I’ve spoken ; 
Time is, time was, time’s past.” 
Pyron: Don Juan, i. 217-8. 
Time-bargain (4), in Stock, is a 
speculation, not an investment. A time- 
bargain is made to buy or sell again as 
soon as possible and receive the differ- 
ence realised. An investment is made 
for the sake of the interest given. 


The cat in the tale of 
(See TYBALT.) 


A wooden leg ; 


Time and tide wait for no 


Time of Grace. The lawful season 
for venery, which began at Midsummer 
and lasted to Holyrood Day. The fox 


1229 


Tintagel 


and wolf might be hunted from the Na- 
tivity to the Annunciation; the roebuck 
from Easter to Michaelmas ; the roe from 
Michaelmas to Candlemas ; the hare from 
Michaelmas to Midsummer; and the boar 
from the Nativity to the Purification. 
(See SPORTING SEASONS. ) 


Time-honoured Lancaster. Old 
John of Gaunt. His father was Edward 
111., his son Henry IV., his nephew 
Richard IT. of England ; his second wife 
was Constance, daughter of Peter the 
Cruel of Castile and Leon; his only 
daughter married John of Castile and 
Leon; his sister Johanna married Al- 
phonso, King of Castile. Shakespeare 
calls him ‘‘ time-honoured ” and “ old ;”’ 
honoured he certainly was, but was only 
fifty-nine at his death. Hesiod is called 
Old, meaning ‘‘ long ago,.”’ 


Times (712). A newspaper, founced 
by John Walter. In 1785 he established 
The Daily Universal Register, but in 1788 
changed the name into The Times, or 
Daily Universal Register. (See THun- 
DERER. ) 

Timo’leon. The Corinthian who so 
hated tyranny that he murdered his own 
brother Timoph’anés when he attempted 
tomake himself absolute in Corinth. 


©“ The fair Corinthian hoast 
Timoleon, happy temper, mild and firm, 
Who wept the brother while the tyrant bled.” 
Thomson: Winter. 


Timon of Athens. The misanthrope. 
Shakespeare’s play so called. Lord Ma- 
caulay uses the expression to ‘‘out-Timon 
Timon ’’—7.e. to be more misanthropical 
than even Timon. 


Tin. Money. A depreciating syno- 
nym for silver, called by alchemists 
“¢ Jupiter.” 

Tine-man (77). The Earl of Doug- 
las, who died 1424. (See Sir W. Scott : 
Tales of a Grandfather, chap, xviii.) 


Ting. The general assembly of the 
Northmen, which all capable of bearing 
arms were bound to attend on occasions 
requiring deliberation and action. The 
words Volksthing and Storthing are still 
in use. 

“ A shout filled all the Ting, a thousand swords 

Clashed loud approval.” 

Frithiof-Saga (The Parting). 

Tinker. The man who ἐϊ)ι 5, or beats 
cna kettle to announce his trade. John 
Bunyan (1628-1688) was called The in- 
spired Tinker.) 

Tintag’el or Tintag’il. A strong 
castle on the coast of Cornwall, the 
reputed birth-place of King Arthur. 


“When Uthur in Tintagil passed away.” 
Tennyson: The Coming of Arthur, 


Tintern Abbey 


1230 


Tirled 


Tin'tern Abbey. Wordsworth has 
a poem 
above Tintern Abbey, but these lines have 
nothing whatever to do with the fa- 


mous ruin, not even once alluding to it. 


Tintoretto, the historical painter. 
So called becanse his father was a dyer 
(tintore). His real name was Jacopo 
Robusti. He was nicknamed J/ [iioso, 
from the rapidity of his productions. 
(1512-1594.) 


Tip. Private information, secret warn- 
ing. In horse-racing, it means such 
secret information as may guide the 
person tipped to make bets advantage- 


ously. A ‘straight tip’? comes straight 
or direct from the owner or trainer of 
the horse in question. A man wil 


sometimes give the police the ‘* tip,”’ or 
hint where a gang of confederates lie 


concealed, or where Jaw-l reakers may be 
found. Thus, houses of ill-fame and 
keepers of clandestine gaming housrs in 
league with the police, receive the ‘* tip”’ 
when spies are on them or legal danger 
is abroad, 


“Tf he told the police, he felt assured that the 
‘tip’ would be given to the parties concerned, 
and his efforts would he frustrated.”—Mr. Stead’s 
defence, November 2nd, 1885. 

Ile gave me a tip—a present of money, 
a bribe. (See Dias.) 

Tip efmy Tengue. 170 hareathing 
cit the tip of my tongue means to have it 
so pat that it comes without thought ; 
also, to have a thing on the verge of 
one’s memory, but bot quite perfectly 
remembered, (In Latin, i labris natat.) 


Tip Cne the Wink (10). To make 
a signal to another by a wink. Here tip 


means ‘‘ to give,’’ as tip in the previous 
example means ‘‘a gift,”’ 

Tiph’any, according to the calendar 
saints, was the mother of the Three 
(See COLOGNE.) 


of 
Kings of Cologne. 


Ti'phys. <A pilot. He was the pilot 
of the Argonauts. 
© Many a Tiphys ocean's dept! sexplere, 


To open Wwoncrous ways untried hefore.* 

Heolcs Artasto, bk. Vill. 
Tipperary Rifie (4). A shillelagh 
cr stick made of blackthorm. At Bally- 
brophy station an itinerant vendor of 
walking-sticks pushed up close to their 
Royal Highnesses [the Prince and Prin- 
cess of Wales] The Prince asked 
him what he wanted, and the man re- 
plied, ‘‘ Nothing, your honour, but to 
ask your honour to accept a present 
of a Tipperary rifle,’? and so saying he 
handed his Royal Highness a stout 


called Lines Composed a few Miles . 


hawthorn. The Prince sent the man a 
sovereign, for which a geutleman offered 
him 25s. “' No,” said the man? 
would not part with it for twenty-five 
gold guineas.”? In a few minutes the 
man had sold all his Ne for princcly 
prices. (April 25th, 1885.) 


Tippling Act ἕν: 24 Geo, IT..chap. 
40, which restricted the sale of spiritous 
liquors retailed on credit for less than 
20s. at one time. In part repealed. A 
ΚΣ tippler ’”? originally meant a tavern- 
keeper or tapster, and the tavern was 
called a * tippling-Louse,’’ At Boston, 
Lincolnshire, in 1577, five persons weie 
appomted 5" tipplers of Lincoln beer,”’ 
and no ‘‘ other tippler [might] draw cr 
sell beer’? . . . under penalties. 


Tippling House. A contemptuous 
name for a tavern or public-house. 


Tipstaff. A constable so called be- 
cause he carried a staff tipped with a 
bull’s horn. In the documents of Kd- 
ward II]. allusion is often made to his 
staff. (See Rymer’s Fudera.) 


Tiptoe of Expectation (J fhe). 
All agog with curiosity. I aim like one 
standing on tiptoe to see over the shoul- 
ders of a crowd, 


Tirer une Dent. To draw a man’s 
tooth, or extort money from him. ‘The 
allusion is to the tale told by Holin- 
shed of King John, who extorted 10,010 
marks from a Jew living at Bristol ly 
extracting a tooth daily till he consented 
to provide the money. For seven suc- 
cessive days a tooth was taken, and then 
the Jew gave in. 


Tiresias. Blind as Tirvc'sias, Tire- 
sias the Theban by accident saw Athena 
bathing, and the goddess struck him 
with blindness Ly s splashing water in his 
face. She afterwards repented doing so, 
and, as she could not restore his sight, 
conferred on hii the power of soothsay- 
ing, and gave him a staff with which le 
could waik as safely as if he had his - 
sight. He found death at last by drink- 
ing from the well of Tilpho’sa. 

‘Juno the truth of what was said denied, 
Tivesias, therefore, must the cause decide.” 
Addison: Transformation of Tiresias. 

Tiring Irens. Iron rings io be put 
on or taken off a ving asa puzzle Light- 
foot calls them ‘‘ tiring irons never to be 
untied.”’ : 

Tirled. He tirled at the pin, He. 
twiddled or rattled with the lateh before 
opening the door, Guillaume di Lorris, 


Tironian Sign 12: 


Tittle Tattle 


in his Romance of the Rose (thirteenth 
century), says, ‘‘ When persons visit a 
friend they ought not to bounce all at 
once into the room, but should announce 
their approach by a slight cough, or few 
words spoken in the hall, or a slight 
shuffling of their feet, so as not to take 
their friends unawares.’? The pin is the 
door-latch, and before a visitor entered 
2 room it was, in Scotland, thought good 
manners to fumble at the latch to give 
notice of your intention to enter. (Til 
is the Anglo-Saxon thwer-an, to turn ; 
Dutch dwarlen, our twirl, etc. ; or Danish 
trille, German triller, Welsh treillio ; our 
trill, to rattle or roll.) 
“ Right qvick he mounted up the stair, 
And tirléd at the pin. 
Charlie is ny Darling. 

Tiro’nian Sign (7/ic). The symbol 
(&) for ‘‘and”’ or the Latin ct. Said to 
have been invented by Tullius Tiro, 
Cicero’s freed-man. (Sze Marks IN 
GRAMMAR.) 


Tiryns. An ancient city of Ar’golis 
in Greece, famous for its Cyclopean 
architecture. The ‘‘ Gallery of Tiryns”’ 
is the oldest and noblest structure of the 
heroic ages. It is mentioned by Homer, 
and still exists. 


Tiryn'thian Swain. Hercules is so 
called by Spenser, but he is more fre- 
quently styled the Ziryithian Hero, be- 
cause he generally resided at Tiryns, a 
town of Ar’golis. 


Tit. A horse. 


“ They scorned the coach, they scorned the rails, 
Two spanking t.ts with stream ne tails.’ 
The End of All things. 


“ What spurres need now for an untamed titt.”* 
. Burnefield : Affictionate Shepherd (1594). 
Tit for Tat. J. Bellenden Ker says 
this is the Dutch “ Dit ror dat”’ (this 
for that) ; ‘‘ Quid pro quo.’ Heywood 
uses the phrase ‘‘ tat for tat,’’ perhaps 
the French phrase, ὁ“. af pour tant.” 


Ti'tan. The sun, so called by Ovid 
and Virgil. 
“ And fleckéd Darkness like a drunkard reels 


From forth Day’s path and Titan's fiery whe ee 
Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet, ii. 


The Titans. The children of Heaven 
and Earth, who, instigated by their 
mother, deposed their father, and liber- 
ated from Tar'taros their brothers the 
Hundred-handed giants, and the Cy- 
clopes. (Classic inythology.) 


Titan’s War with Jove (7ihe). The 
Titans set their brother Cronos on the 
throne of heaven ; and Zeus [Ze] tried 
to dethrone him. The contest lasted ten 


years, when Zeus became the conqueror 
and hurled the Titans into hell. 

* This must not be contounded with 
the war of the giants, which was a 
revolt against Zeus, and was soon put 
down by the ie of the other gods and 
the aid of Hercu és (S-e GIANTS.) 


Titania. Wife of O’beron, king of 
the fairies. According to the belief in 
Shakespeare’s age, fairies were the same 
as the classic nymphs, the attendants of 
Diana. The queen of the fairies was 
therefore Diatia herself, called Titania 
by Ovid ( Metamorphoses, 11.118). (Keigh.- 
ley: Fairy Mythology.) 


Titho’nus. A beautiful Trojan Le- 
loved by Auro’ra. He begged the go.l- 
dess to grant him immortality, which 
request the goddess granted; but as 
he had forgotten to ask for youth and 
vigour he soon grew o'd, infirm, and 
ugly. When life became insupportab!e 
he prayed Aurora to remove lim from 
the world ; this, however, she could not 
do, but she changed him into a grass- 
hopper. Synonym for ‘‘ an old man.” 

“ An idle scene Tithonus acted 


When to ἢ grasshop er coutracted.* 
Prior: The Turtle aud Sparrows. 


“Thinner than Tithonus was 
Pefore he faded into air. 
Tales of Miletus, ii. 


Titi (Prince). Frederick, Prince of 
Wales, eldest son of George II. Seward, 
a contemporary, tells us that Prince 
Frederick was a great reader of French 
memoirs, and that he himself wrote 
memoirs of his contemporaries under 
the pseudonym of *‘ Prince Titi.” 

There was a pol'tical fairy tale by St Hyacinthe 
(1684-1740) called the History of Prince Titi, Ralyh 
also wrote a Ilistory of Prince Titi. These hix- 


tor es are manifestly covert retiections on Gecrge 
11. and his belongings. 


Titian [ 7iziano Vecellio|). An Italian 
landscape painter, celebrated for the fine 
effects of his clouds. (1477-1576.) 

“Not Titian’s pencil e’er could so array, 
So fleece with clouds the pure ethere al space, 
Thomson: Custle of Indoloice, canto 1. 

The French Titian. Jacques Blanch- 
ard, the painter (1600-1638). 

The Titian of Portugal. Alonzo San- 
chez Coello (1515-1590). 


Tit‘ivate (3 syl.). To tidy up: to 
dress up; to set in order, ‘* Titi” is 
a variant of tidy; and ‘‘vate”’’ is an 
affix, from the Latin vado (to go), mean- 
ing ‘‘ to go and do something.” 


Tittle Tattle. Tattle is prate. (Dutch 
tateren, Italian, tatta-mélla.) Tittle is 


Titus 


1232 


Toads 


little, same as tit in titmouse, little tit, 

tit-bit. 

“Pish! Why do Ispend my time in tittle-tattle?” 
Otway : Cheats of Scapin,i. 1. 

The penitent thief, called 

(See 


Titus. : 
Desmas in the ancient mysteries. 
DUMACHUS.) 


Titus the Roman Emperor was 
called ‘the delight of men.’’? (40, 79- 
81.) 

“Titus indeed gave one short evening gleam, 

More cordial felt, as in the midst it spread 

Of storm and horror ; the delight of men.” 

Thomson: Liberty, iii. 

The Arch of Titus commemorates the 

capture of Jerusalem, A.D. 70. 


Tityos. A giant whose body covered 
nine acres of land, He tried to defile 
Latona, but Apollo cast him into Tar- 
tarus, where a vulture fed on his liver, 
which grew again as fast as it was de- 
voured. (Greek fable.) (See Giants.) 

“ Prométheus (3 syl.) was chained to 
Mount Caucasus, and had his liver 
gnawed by a vulture or eagle. (Sce also 
St. GEORGE, who delivered Sabra, 
chained to a rock.) 


Tit'yre Tus. Dissolute young scape- 
graces, whose delight was to worry 
the watchmen, upset sedans, wrench 
knockers off doors, and be rude to pretty 
women, at the close of the seventeenth 
century. Thename comes from the first 
line of Virgil’s first Eclogue, ‘‘ Tityre tu 
patule recubans sub tegmine fagi”’ (Tityre 
Tus loved to lurk in the dark night look- 
ing for mischief). ‘‘Tus’’= tuze. 

Tit’'yrus. Any shepherd. So called 
in allusion to the name familiar from its 
use in Greek idyls and Virgil’s first 
Eclogue. In the Shepherd’s Calendar 
Spenser calls Chaucer by this name : 

“Heroes and their feats 

Fatigue me, never weary of the pipe 

Of Tityrus, assembling as he sang 

The rustic throng beneath his favourite beech.” 

Cowper. 

Tizo'na. One of the favourite swords 
of the Cid, taken by him from King 
Bucar. His other favourite sword was 
Cola’da, Tizona was buried with him. 
(See Sworp.) 

Tizzy (A). A sixpence. A variant 
of fester. In the reign of Henry VIII. 
a ‘‘testone’’ was a shilling, but only 
sixpence in the reign of Elizabeth. 
(French, teste, ¢éte, the [monarch’s] 
head.) 

To (1) (to rhyme with do). To be 
compared to ; comparable to. Thus, Sir 
Thomas Browne (Religio Medici) says: 
“There is no torture to the rack of a 


disease’? (p. 69, 20); and again, ‘‘ No 
reproach ἕο the scandal of a story.’’? And 
Shakespeare says : — 


“ There is no woe to his correction, 
Nor to his service no such joy on earth? _ 
Two Gentlemen of Verona, ii. 4, 


To. Altogether; wholly. 


“If the podech he burned to... we saye the 
byshope hath put his fote in the potte.”—Tyu- 


dale. 
To-do. Here's a pretty to-do. Dis- 
turbance. The French affaire—i.e. a 


Saire (to do). 

To Rights. In apple-pie order. 70 
put things to rights. To put every 
article in its proper place. In the 
United States of America the phrase is 
used to signify directly. (Latin, ’rectus, 
right. ) 

“T said I had never heard it, so she hegan to 
rights and told me the whole thing.’—Story of the 
Sleigh-ride. 

To Wit. For example. 
Saxon, wit-an, to know.) 


To (2) (to rhyme with so, foe, etc.). 


To En (712). The One—that is, the 
Unity. This should be 70 hen properly. 


To On (Ze). The reality. 
To Pan (716). The totality. 


“So then he falls hack upon force as the “ult1- 
mate of ultimates,” as the To EN, the To ON, and 
the To PAN of creation.”—Fra. Olle. 

Toads. The device of Clovis was 
three toads (or botes, as they were called 
in Old French), but after his baptism the 
Arians greatly hated him, and assembled 
a large army under King Candat to put 
down the Christian king. While on his 
way to meet the heretics, he saw in the 
heavens his device miraculously changed 
into three lilies ov on a banner azure. 
He had such a banner instantly made, 
and called it his ifambe. Even before 
his army came in sight of King Candat, 
the host of the heretic lay dead, slain, 
like the army of Sennacherib, by a blast 
from the god of battles. (/taoul de 
Présles : Grans Croniques de France.) 

“It is wytnessyd of Maister Robert Gagwyne 
that hefore thyse dayes all French kynges used to 
bere in their armes iii Todys, but after this Clodo- 
veus had recognised Cristes relygyon iii Floure de 
lys were sent to hym by diuyne power, sette ina 
shylde of azure, the whiche syns that heen borne 
of all French kynges.”"—Fabian’s Chronicle. 

The toad, ugly and venomous, wears yct 
a precious jewel in its head. Fenton says: 
‘““There is to be found in the heads of 
old and great toads a stone they call 
borax or stelon, which, being used as 
rings, give forewarning against venom ”’ 
(1569). These stones always bear a 
figure resembling a toad on their surface. 


(Anglo- 


Toad-eater 


Lupton says: “Α toad-stone, called 
crepaudia, touching any part envenomed 
by the bite of a rat, wasp, spider, or 
other venomous beast, ceases the pain 
and swelling thereof.’’ In the Londes- 
borough Collection is a silver ring of the 
titteenth century, in which one of these 
toad-stones is set. The stone was sup- 
posed to sweat and change colour when 
poison was in its proximity. Technically 
called the Batrachyte or Batrachos, an 
antidote of all sorts of poison. 

Toads unknown in Ireland. Tt is said 
that St. Patrick cleared the island of all 
‘*varmint”’ by his malediction. 


Toad-eater. At the final overthrow 
of the Moors, the Castilians made them 
their servants, and their active habits 
and officious manners greatly pleased the 
proud and lazy Spaniards, who called 
them mi todita (my factotum), Hence a 
cringing officious dependent, who will do 
all sorts of dirty work for you, is called 
a todita or toad-cater. 

Pulteney’s toad-eater. Tenry Vane. 
So called by Walpole (1742). 


Toady. (Sve TOAD-EATER.) 


Toast. A name given, to which 
guests are invited to drink in compli- 
ment, The name at one time was that 
of a lady. The word is taken from the 
toast which used at one time to be put 
into the tankard, and which still floats in 
the loving-cup, and also the cups called 
copus, bishop, and cardinal, at the Uni- 
versities. Hence the lady named was the 
toast or savour of the wine—that which 
gave the draught piquancy and merit. 
The story goes that a certain beau, in 
the reign of Charles II., being at Bath, 
pledged a noted beauty in a glass of 
water taken from her bath ; whereupon 
another roysterer cried out he would have 
nothing to do with the liquor, but would 
have the toast—i.e. the lady herself. 
(Rambler, No. 24.) 

“Let the toast pass, drink to the lass.’—Sheri- 
dan: School for Scandal. 

“Say, why are beauties praised and honoured 
Tike plea man’s passion and the vain man’s 
toast.” Pope: Rape of the Lock, canto i. 

Tobit, sleeping one night outside the 
wall of his courtyard, was blinded by 
sparrows ‘‘muting warm dung into his 
eyes.”’ His son Tobias was attacked on 
the Tigris by a fish, which leapt out of 
the water toassail him. Tobias married 
Sara, seven of whose betrothed lovers 
had been successively carried off by the 
evil spirit Asmode’us, Asmodeus was 
driven off by the angel Azari’as, and, 


73 


1233 


Toddy 


fleeing to the extremity of Egypt, was 
found: Old Tobit was cured of his 
blindness by applying to his eyes the 
gall of the fish which had tried to devour 
his son. (Apocrypha: Book of Tobit.) 


Tobo'so. Dulcin'ea del Toboso. Don 
Quixote’s lady. Sancho Panza says she 
was ‘fa stout-built sturdy wench, who 
could pitch the bar as well as any young 
fellow in the parish.’”’ The knight had 
been in love with her when he was 
simply a gentleman of the name of 
Quix’ada. She was then called Aldonza 
Lorenzo (daughter of Lorenzo Corchuelo 
and Aldonza Nogales) ; but when the 
gentleman became a don, he changed 
the style of address of the village damsel 
into one more befitting his new rank. 
(Cervantes : Don Quixote, bk. i. chap. 1.) 

“Sir, said Don Quixote, ‘she is not a descend- 
ant of the ancient Caii, Curtiil, and Scipios of 
Rome ; nor of the modern Colonas and Orsini ; 
nor of the Rebillas and Villanoyvas of Valencia ; 
neither is she a descendant of the Palatoxes, 
Newcas, Rocabertis, Corellas, Lunas, Alagonés, 
Ureas, Fozes, and Gurreas of Aragon: neither 
does the Lady Dulcinea descend from the Cerdas, 
Manriquez, Mendozas, and Guzmans of Castile ; 
nor from the Alencastros, Pallas, and Menezés of 
Portugal; but she derives her origin from a 
family of Toboso, near Mancha’” (bk. 11. chap. v.). 

** In English the accent of Dulcinea 
is often on the second syllable, but in 
Spanish it is on the third. 

“© Ask you for whom my tears do flow so? 

Why, for Dulcinea del Tohoso.” 
Don Quixote’s Love-song. 

Tobo'sian. The rampant Mai'che- 
gan lion shall be wnited to the white 
Tobosian dove. Literally, Don Quixote 
de la Mancha shall marry Dulein’ea del 
Toboso. Metaphorically, ‘‘ None but 
the brave deserve the fair,”’ 


Toby (the dog), in Punchinello, wears 
a frill garnished with bells, to frighten 
away the devil from his master, This is 
a very old superstition. (See PassinG 
BELL.) 

The Chinese and other nations make a great 
noise at death to scare away evil spirits. “ Keen- 
ing” is probably based on the same superstition. 

Toby. The high toby, the high-road ; 
the low toby, the by-road. A highway- 
man is a ‘thigh tobyman;’’? a mere 
footpad is a ‘‘ low tobyman.”’ 


“So we can do a touch now... .as well as you 


grand gentlemen on the high toby.” —Loldre- 
wood: Robbery under Arms, chap. XX V1. 
Toddy. A favourite Scotch beverage 


compounded of spirits, hot water, and 
sugar. The wordisa corruption of tavdi, 
the Indian name for the saccharine juice 
of palm spathes. ‘The Sanskrit is to/de 
or taldi, from tal (palm-juice). (hind: 
Vegetable Kingdon.) ; 


Toes 


1234 


Tom 


Toes. The most dexterous man in 
the use of his toes in lieu of fingers was 
William Kingston, born without hands 
or arms. (See World of Wonders, pt. 
x.3 Correspondence, p. 6d.) 


Tofana. An old woman of Naples 
immortalised by her invention of a taste- 
less and colourless poison, called by her 
the Manna of St. Nicola of Bari, but 
better known as Aqua Tofa'na, Above 
600 persons fell victims to this insidious 
drug. ‘'Tofana died 1730. 

Hieronyma Spara, generally called La 
Spara, a reputed witch, about a century 
previously, sold a similar elixir. The 
secret was revealed by the father confes- 
sors, after many years of concealment 
and a frightful number of deaths. 


Tog. ‘vgs, dress, (Latin, toga.) 
““Togged out in his best”? is dressed in 
his best clothes. Zoggery is finery. 

Toga. The Romans were called /o- 
ga'ti or gens toga'ta, because their chief 
outer dress was a toga. 


Toga’d or Togated Nation (7c). 
Gens togata, the Romans, who wore 
togas. ‘The Greeks wore “ palls,’? and 
were called the gens pallia ta ; the Gauls 
wore breeches, and were called gens 
braceata. (Toga, pallium, and bracce.) 


Tole‘do. Famous for its swords. 
“The temper of Tole’dan blades is such 
that they are sometimes packed in 
boxes, curled up like the mainsprings of 
watches ’?!! Both Livy and Polyb’ius 
refer to them, 


Tolmen (in French, Dolmen). An 
immense mass of stone placed on two or 
more vertical ones, so as to admit a 
passage between them. (Celtic, to/ or 
dol, table; men, stone.) 

The Constantine Tolmen, Cornwall, 
consists of a vast stone 33 feet long, 144 
deep, and 183 across. This stone is cal- 
culated to weigh 750 tons, and is poised 
on the points of two natural rocks, 


Tolo’sa. He has got the gold of Tolosa, 
(Latin proverb meaning “ἢ His ill-gotten 
wealth will do him no good.’’) Czepio, 
in his march to Gallia Narbonensis, stole 
from Toulouse (Zolosa) the gold and 
silver consecrated by the Cimbrian 
Druids to their gods. In the battle 
which ensued both Cxepio and his brother 
consul were defeated by the Cimbrians 
and Teutons, and 112,000 Romans were 
left dead on the field. (B.c. 106.) 


Tom. Between ‘‘Tom”’ and “ Jack”’ 
there is a vast difference. ‘‘Jack’’ is the 


sharp, shrewd, active fellow, but Tom 
the honest dullard, Counterfeits are 
“ Jack,’ but Toms are simply bulky 
examples of the ordinary sort, as Tom- 
toes. No one would think of calling 
the thick-headed, ponderous male cat a 
Jack, nor the pert, dexterous, thieving 
daw a “Tom.’? The former is in- 
stinctively called a Tom-cat, and the 
latter a Jack-daw. The subject of 
‘Jack’? has been already set forth. 
(Sve Jack.) Let us now see haw Tom is 
used :— 

Tom ο᾽ Bedlam (q.u.). A mendicant 
who levies charity on the plea of insanity. 

Tom-cat. ‘The male cat. 

Tom Drs entertainment. 
clumsy sort of horse-play. 

Tom Farthing. A born fool. 

Tom Fool. A clumsy, witless fool, 
fond of stupid practical jokes, but very 
different from a ‘‘ Jack Pudding,’? who 
is a wit and bit of a conjurer. 

Tom Long. A lazy, dilatory sluggard. 

Tom Lony. A simpleton, 

Tom Noddy. A puffing, fuming, stupid 
creature, no more like a ‘‘ Jack-a-dandy”’ 
than Bill Sikes to Sam Weller. 

Tom Noodle. A mere nincompoop. 

Tom the Piper's son. A poor stupid 
thief who got well basted, and blubbered 
like a booby. 

Tom Thumb. A man cut short or 
stinted of his fair proportions. (For the 
Tom Thumb of nursery delight, see next 


» 


A very 


age.) 

Tom Tidler. An occupant who finds it 
no easy matter to keep his own against 
sharper rivals. (See Tom 'TIDLER’S 
GROUND.) 

Tom Tiller. A hen-pecked husband. 

Tom Tinker. The brawny, heavy 
blacksmith, with none of the wit and 
fun of a ‘‘Jack Tar,’? who can tell a 
yarn to astonish all his native village. 

Tom Tit. The ‘Tom Thumb” of 
birds, 

Tom-Toe. The clumsy, bulky toe, 
“bulk without spirit vast.’? Why the 
great toe? ‘For that being one 0’ the 
lowest, basest, poorest of this most wise 
rebellion, thou goest foremost.”” (Shale- 
speare : Coriolanus, i, 1.) 

Tom Tug. Awaterman, who bears the 
same relation to a Jack Taras a cart- 
horse to an Arab. (See Tom Tue.) 

Great Tom of Lincoln, A bell weigh- 
ing 5 tons 8 ewt. 

Mighty Tom of Oxford. A bell weigh- 
ing 7 tons 12 ewt. 

Old Tom. A heavy, strong, intoxicat- 
ing sort of gin. 


Long Tom, A huge water- jug. 


Tom Folio 


1235 


Tommy Atkins 


Tom Folio. Thomas Rawlinson, 
the bibliomaniac. (1681-1725.) 

Tom [0015 Colours. Red and yel- 
low, or searlet and yellow, the colours 
of the ancient motley. 


Tom Foolery. 
jokes of a ‘Tom Tool. 


The coarse, witless 


(See above.) 


Tom Long. JVuiting for Tom Long— 
i.e. a wearisome long time. The pun, 
of course, is on the word dong. 


Tom Raw. The griffin; applied at 
one time to a subaltern in India for a 
year and a day after his joining the 
army. 


Tom Tailor. A tailor. 

“*Werend our hearts,and not our garments.— 
‘The better for yourselves, and the worse for Tom 
Tiylor, said the baron.”’—sSir W. Scott: The Monas- 
tery, Chap. XXV. 

Tom Thumb, the nursery tale, is 
from the French Le Petit Poucet, by 
Charles Perrault (1630), but it is pro- 
bably of Anglo-Saxon crigin. There is 
in the Bodleian Library a ballad about 
Tom Thumb, ‘‘ printed for John Wright 
in 1630.”’ 

Tom Thunb. The son of a common 
ploughman and his wite, who was 
knighted by King Arthur, and was killed 
by the poisonous breath of a spider, in 
the reign of King Thunstone, the suc- 
eessor of Arthur. (Nursery tale.) 

Tom Tidier’s Ground. The ground 
or tenement of a sluggard. The expres- 
sion occurs in Dickens’s Christmas story, 
1861. idler is a contraction of ‘the 
idler’? or idler. The game so called 
consists in this: Tom Tidler stands on a 
heap of stones, gravel, etc. ; other boys 
rush on the heap crying, ‘‘ Here I am 
on Tom Tidler’s ground,’ and Tom 
bestirs himself to keep the invaders off. 


Tom Tug. A waterman, In allusion 
to the tue or boat so called, or to tug- 
ging at the oars. 


Tom and Jerry 1.26. Corinthian 
Tom and Jerry Hawthorn, the two chief 
characters in Pierce Egan’s Life in 
London, illustrated by Cruikshank. 


Tom, Dick, and Harry. A set of 
nobodies ; persons of no note; persons 
unworthy notice. Jones, Brown, and 
Robinson are far other men: they are 
the vulgar rich, especially abroad, who 
give themselves airs, and look with scorn 
on all foreign ways which differ from 
their own. 


Tom o’ Bedlams. A race of mendi- 
cants. The Bethlem Hospital was 


made to accommodate six lunatics, but 
in 1644 the number admitted was forty- 
four, and applications were so numerous 
that many inmates were dismissed half- 
cured. These ‘‘ticket-of-leave men ἢ 
used to wander about as vagrants, 
chanting mad songs, and dressed in 
fantastic dresses, to excite pity. Under 
cover of these harmless ‘‘innocents,”’ a 
set of sturdy rogues appeared, called 
Abram men, who shammed lunacy, and 
committed great depredations. 
“With as:gh like Tom ο᾽ Bediam.” 
Shakespeare: King Lear, i.2. 

Tomboy. A romping girl, formerly 
used for a harlot. (Saxon, twmnbere, a 
dancer or romper; Danish, tewmle, “" to 
tumble about ;”’ French, tomber ; Span- 
ish, teunbar ; our tumble.) The word 
may either be tumbe-boy (one who 
romps like a boy), or a tember (one who 
romps), the word Joy being a corruption. 

“A lady 
So fair... to he partner’d 
With tomboys.” 
Shakespeare: Cymbeline, i. 6. 

Halliwell gives the following quota- 
tion :— 

“ Herodias dougter that was a tumb-estre. and 
tumblede before [the king] and other grete lordes 
of the contré, he granted to geve Lure whatevere 
she would bydde.” 

Tomahawk. A war-hatchet. The 
word has slight variations in different 
Indian tribes, as tomehagen, tumnahagen, 
tamoihecan, ete. When peace was made 
between tribes in hostility, the toma- 
hawks were buried with certain cere- 
monies; hence, to ‘‘ bury the hatchet” 
means to make peace. 


Tomb of Our Lord. This spot is 
now covered by ‘‘’The Church of the 
Holy Sepulchre.’? A long marble slab 
is shown on the pavement as the tomb- 
stone. Where the Lord was anointed 
for His burial three large candlesticks 
stand covered with red velvet. The 
identity of the spot is doubtful. 


Tommy Atkins (1). A British sol- 
dier, as a Jack Tar is a British sailor. 
The term arose from the little pocket 
ledgers served out, at one time, to all 
British soldiers. In these manuals were 
to be entered the name, the age, the 
date of enlistment, the length of service, 
the wounds, the medals, and so on of 
each individual. The War Office sent 
with each little book a form for filling it 
in, and the hypothetical name selected, 
instead of John Doe and Richard Roe 
(selected by lawyers), or M. N. (selected 
by the Church), was ‘‘ Tommy Atkins.”’ 


Tommy Dodd 


1236 


Tooth 


The books were instantly so called, and 
it did not require many days to transfer 
the name from the book to the soldier, 


Tommy Dodd. The ‘‘odd’’ man who, 
in tossing up, either wins or loses accord- 
ing to agreement with his confederate. 
here is a music-hall song so called, in 
which Tommy Dodd is the * knowing 
one.” 


Tommy Shop. Where wages are 
paid to workmen who are expected to 
lay out a part of the money for the good 
of the shop. Tommy means bread or a 
penny roll, or the food taken by a work- 
man in his handkerchief ; it also means 
goods in lieu of money. A Tom and 
Jerry shop is a low drinking-room, 


To morrow never Comes. A re- 
proof to those who defer till to-morrow 
what should be done to-day. 

“YT shall aequaint your mother, Miss May, with 
your pretty behaviour to-morrow.’ suppose 
you mean to-morrow come never,’ answered Mag- 
nolia.’—Le Fanu: The House in the Churchyard, 
p. 118, 

Tonans,. Deliriwn tonars. Loud talk, 
exaggeration, gasconade. Blackwood’s 
Magazine (1869) introduced the expres- 
sion in the following clause :— 

“Trishmen are the victims of that terrible 
malady that is characterised by a sort of sub- 
acute raving, and may, for want of a better name, 
be called ‘delirium tonans.’” 


Tongue of the Trump (7%v). The 
spokesman or leader of a party. The 
trump means a Jew’s harp, which is 
vocalised by the tongue. 

“The tongue of the trump to them ἃ." 
Burns. 

Tongues. 

The Italian is pleasant, but without 
sinews, as still fleeting water. 

The French—delicate, but like an over- 
nice woman, scarce daring to open her 
lips for fear of marring her counten- 
ance, 

Spanish—majestical, but fulsome, run- 
ning too much on the letter 0; and ter- 
rible, like the devil in a play. 

Dutch—manlike, but withal very harsh, 
as one ready at every word to pick a 
quarrel, 

We (the English), in borrowing from 
them, give the strength of consonants 
to the Italian; the full sound of words 
to the French; the variety of termina- 
tions to the Spanish; and the mollifying 
of more vowels to the Dutch. Thus, 
like bees, we gather the honey of their 
good properties and leave the dregs to 
themselves. (Camden.) 


Tonna (Jfrs.), Charlotte Elizabeth, 


the author of TLersonal Recollections. 
(1792-1846.) 


Ton’sure (2 syl.). Zhe tonswre of St. 
Peter consists in shaving the crown and 
back of the head, so as to leave a ring or 
“crown”? of hair. 

The tonsure of James consists in shay- 
ing the entire front of the head. This is 
sometimes called ‘‘the tonsure of Simon 
the Magician,’’ and sometimes ‘‘ the 
Scottish tonsure,’’ from its use in North 
Britain. 

Tonsures vary in size according to 
rank. 

For clerics the tonsure should he 1 inch in di- 
ameter. (Gastaldus, ii. sect, i. chap. viii.) 

For those in minor orders it should be 14 ineh, 
(Council of Palencia under Urban VI.) ὃ 

For a sub-deacon lf inch. (Gastaldus, x1. sect. 1. 
chap. viii.) : 

For a deacon 2 inches. 
chap. 1x.) 

For a priest 2} inches. 

Tontine (2syl.). A legacy left among 
several persons in such a way that as 
anyone dies his share goes to the sur- 
vivors, till the last survivor inherits 
all. So named from Lorenzo Tonti, a 
Neapolitan, who introduced the system 
into France in 1653. 

Tony Lumpkin. A young clownish 
bumpkin in She Stoops to Conquer, by 
Oliver Goldsinith. 


Too Many for [Me] or One too many 
Sor [me]. More thana match. ‘“ J/ est 
trop fort pour moi.” 

“The L[rishman is cunning enough ; but weshall 
he too many for him.”—Mrs. Edgeworth. 

Tooba or Touba [efernal happiness). 
The tree Touba, in Paradise, stands m 
the palace of Mahomet. (Sale: Prelimi- 
nary Discourse to the Koran.) 


Tool. 170 tool a coach. To drive one; 
generally applied to a gentleman Jehu, 
who undertakes for his own amusement 
to drive a stage-coach. ‘To tool is to use 
the tool as a workman; a coachman’s 
tools are the reins and whip with which 
he tools his coach or makes his coach go. 


Tooley Street. <A corruption of St. 
Olaf—i.e. ’T-olaf, Tolay, Tooly. Simil- 
arly, Sise Lane is St. Osyth’s Lane. 


Toom Tabard [empty jacket]. A 
nickname given to John Baliol, because 
of his poor spirit, and sleeveless appoint- 
ment to the throne of Scotland. The 
honour was an ‘‘empty jacket,’’? which 
he enjoyed a short time and then lost. 
He died discrowned in Normandy. 


Tooth. Greek, odont’; Latin, dent’; 
Sanskrit, dant’; Gothic, tunth’; Anglo- 
Saxon, (6th, plural, ¢é¢h. 


(Gastaldus, xi. sect. i. 


(Council of Palencia.) 


Tooth and Egg 


1237 


Torr’s MSS. 


Golden tooth. (See GOLDEN.) 
Wolf's tooth. (See TEETH.) 
In spite of his teeth, (See TEETH.) 


Tooth and Egg. A corruption of 
Tutanag, a Chinese word for spelter, the 
metal of which canisters are made, and 
tea-chests lined. It is a mixture of 
English lead and tin from Quintang. 


Tooth and Nail. In right good 
earnest, like a rat or mouse biting and 
scratching to get at something. 


Top. (Sve SLEEP.) 


Top-heavy. Liable to tip over be- 
cause the centre of gravity is too high. 
Intoxicated. 


Top Repes. 4 display of the top- 
ropes. A show of gushing friendliness ; 
great promise of help. ‘The top-rope is 
the rope used in hauling the top-mast up 
or down. 

“This display of the top-ropes was rather new 


to me, for time had blurred from my memory the 
*General’s’ rhapsodies.’—C. Thomson: Autobio- 
graphy, p. 189. 

Top-sawyer. A first-rate fellow. 
The sawyer that takes the upper stand 
is always the superior man, and gets 
higher wages, 


Topham. Juke him, Topham. Catch 
him if you can; lay hold of hin, tip- 
staff. ‘Topham was the Black Rod of 
the House of Commons in the reign of 
Charles II., very active in apprehending 
‘suspects’? during the supposed con- 
spiracy revealed by Titus Oates. ‘‘ Take 
him, Topham,’’ became ἃ proverbial 
saying ot the time, much the same as 
“Who stole the donkey?’ ‘‘ How are 
your poor feet? ’’ and so on. 

“Till ‘Take him, Topham’ became a proverb, 
and aformidable one,in the mouth of the people.” 
—Sir Walter Scott: Peveril of the Peak, chap. xx. 

To’phet. A valley near Jerusalem, 
where children were made to ‘pass 
through the fire to Moloch.’? Josiah 
threw dead bodies, ordure, and other 
unclean things there, to prevent all 
further application of the place to re- 
ligious use. (2 Kings xxii. 10, 11.) 
Here Sennacherib’s army was destroyed. 
(Isaiah xxx. 31-33.) The valley was 
also called ‘* Gehinnom”’ (valley of Hin- 
nom), corrupted into Gehenna; and 
Rabbi Kimchi tells us that a perpetual 
fire was kept burning in it to consume 
the dead bodies, bones, filth, and ordure 
deposited there. (Hebrew, toph, a 
drum. When children were offered to 
Moloch, their shrieks were drowned by 
beat of drum,) 


Top'ic. This word has wholly changed 
its original meaning. It now signifies a 
subject for talk, a theme for discussion 
or to be written about; but originally 
‘topics’? were what we call common- 
place books ; the ‘‘sentences’’ of Peter 
Lombard were theological topics. (Greek, 
topikos, from topos, a place.) 


Topsy. A slave-girl, who imper- 
sonates the low moral development but 
real capacity for education of the negro 
race. Her reply to Aunt Ophelia, who 
questioned her as to her father and 
mother, is worthy Dickens. After main- 
taining that she had neither father nor 
mother, her solution of her existence was 
“T ’spects I growed.’ (Mrs. Beecher 
Stowe: Uncle Tom’s Cabin.) 


Topsy-turvy. Upside down. (Anglo- 
Saxon, top side twrn-aweg.) As Shake- 
speare says, ‘‘Turn it topsy-turvy 
down.” (1 Henry 1V., iv. 1.) (See 
HALF-SEAS OVER.) 


Toralva. The licentiate who was 
conveyed on a cane through the air, with 
his eyes shut. In the space of twelve 
hours he arrived at Rome, and lighted 
on the tower of Nona, whence, looking 
down, he witnessed the death of the 
constable de Bourbon. The next morn- 
ing he arrived at Madrid, and related 
the whole affair. During hisflightthrough 
the air the devil bade him open his eyes, 
and he found himself so near the moon 
that he could have touched it with his 
finger. (Cervantes: Don Quixote, pt. 
ii. bk. ili. chap. v-) 


Torne’a. A lake, or rather a river 
of Sweden, which rises from a lake in 
Lapland, and runs into the Gulf of 
Bothnia, at the town called Torne’a or 
Torne. 

“Still pressing on beyond Tornea’s lake.” 
Thomson: Winter. 

Torqua to—i.c. Torquato Tasso, the 
poet. (1544-1595.) (See ALFONSO. ) 

“ And see how dearly earned Torquato’s fame.” 

Lord Byron: Childe Harold, iv. 36. 

Torquema’da (Inquisitor-general of 
Spain, 1420-1498). A Dominican of 
excessive zeal, who multiplied confisca- 
tions, condemnations, and punishments 
to a frightful extent; and his hatred of 
the Jews and Moors was diabolical. 


“General Strelnikoff was the greatest scoundrel 
who defiled the earth since Torquemada.”’—Step- 
niak: The Explosion of the Winter Palace, Febru- 
ary, 1880. 

Torr’s MSS., in the library of the 
dean and chapter of York Minster. 
These voluminous records contain the 


clergy list of eyery parish in the diocese 


Torralba 


of York, and state not only the date of 
each vacancy, but the cause of each 
removal, whether by death, promotion, 
or otherwise. 


Torralba (Doctor), who resided some 
time in the court of Charles V. of Spain. 
He was tried by the Inquisition for 
sorcery, and confessed that the spirit 
Cequiel took him from Vall'adolid’ to 
Rome and back again in an hour anda 
half, (JLelicer.) 


Torre (Sir) (1 syl.). Brother of 
Elaine, and son of the lord of As’tolat. 
A kind blunt heart, brusque in manners, 
and but little of a knight. (Zennyson : 
Ldyls of the King ; Elaine.) 

Torricelli, an Italian mathematician 
(1608-47), noted for his explanation of | 
the rise of water in a common barometer. 
Gatileo explained the phenomenon by the 
ipse dixit of ‘* Nature abhors a vacuum.”’ 

Torso. A statue which has lost its 
head and members, as the famous ‘‘ torso 
of Herculés,’’ (Italian, ἐ0).50.}) 

* The Torso Belvedere, the famous torso of Her- 
cules,in the Vatican, was discovered in the fif- 


teenth century. It is said that Michael Angelo 
ereatly admired it. 


1238 


Touch 


Tortoise which Supports the 
Earth (Z7/ec) is Chukwa; the elephant 
(between the tortoise and the world) is 
Maha-pudma. 


Torture (2 syl.). The most cele- 
brated instruments of torture were the 
rack, called by the English ‘‘the Duke 
of Exeter’s daughter ;”’ the thumdikins, 
or thumbscrews, the boots, the pincers, 
the manacles,and the scavengers daughter 
(q.v.). 

Tory. This word, says Defoe, is the 
Trish torwigh, used in the reign of Queen 
Elizabeth to signify a band of Catholic 
outlaws who haunted the bogs of Ire- 
land. It is formed from the verb forwig- 
him (to make sudden raids).  Golius 
says—‘‘ Tory, silvestris, montana, avis, 
homo, et utrumque ullus haud ibi est”? 
(Whatever inhabits mountains and for- 
ests isa Tory). Lord Macaulay says— 
“The name was first given to those who 
refused to concur in excluding James 
from the throne.’”’ He further says— 
‘*The bogs of Ireland afforded a refuge 
to Popish outlaws, called tories.”’ Tory- 
hunting was a pastime which has even 
found place in our nursery rhymes—‘‘ I 
went to the wood and I killed a tory.” 

F. Crossley gives as the derivation, 
Tuaobh-righ (Celtic), ‘ king’s party.” 

H. T. Hore, in Notes and Queries, gives 
Luath-righ, “ partisans of the king.’ 


G. Borrow gives Tur-a-ri, ‘‘ Come, O 
king.’’ 


ΝΣ In 1832, after the Reform Act, the Tory party 
began to call themselves * Conservatives,” and 
after Gladstone's Bill of Home Rule for Jreland, 
in 1886, the Whigs and Radicals who objected to 
the bill joined the Conservatives, and the two 
combined called themselves * Unionists.” Τὴ 1895 
the Queen sent for Lord Salisbury, who formed a 
Unionist government. 


Totem Pole (4). A _ pole, elaho- 
rately carved, erected before the dwelling 
of certain American Indians, Itis asort 
of symbol, like a public-house sign or 
flagstalf, 


“Tmagine a huge log, forty or fifty feet hint, set 
up flagstaff fashion in front or at the side of a 
low one-storied wooden house, and carved in its 
whole height into inmense but grotesyne repre- 
sentations of man, beast, and bird... . [ΠῚ is em- 
blematic of] family pride, veneration of ancestors 

. and legendary religion. Sometimes [the 
totem) is only a massive pole, with a bird or some 
weird animal at the top... the crest of the chief 
by whose house it stands. ... Sometimes it was 
so broad at the base as to allow a doorway to be 
eutthroughit. Usually the whole pole was carved 
into grotesque flzures one above the other, and 
the effect heightened ... by dabs of paint—blue, 
red, and green.”—Nincteenth Century, December, 
1802, J’. 993. 


Totemism, Totem is the representa- 
tion of a symbol by an animal, and 
totemism is the system or science of such 
symbolism. Thus, in Egyptian myth- 
ology, what is represented as a pig or 
hippopotamus by one tribe, is (for some 
totemic reason) represented as a croco- 
dile by another. 

“The apparent wealth of (Egyptian) mythology 
depends on the totemism of theinhabitants of the 
Nile Valley... . Each district had its own special 
nninal as the emblem of the tribe dwelling in 
that locality."—Lockyer : Nineteenth Century, July 
1892, p. 81. 

Toto Colo. Entirely. The allusion 
is to augurs who divided the heavens 
into four parts.. Among the Greeks the 
left hand was unlucky, and the right 
lucky. When all four parts concurred 
a prediction was certified toto cwlo, The 
Romans called the east Antica, the west 
Postiea, the south Dextra, and the north 
Sinistra. 

“Even when they are relaxing thos? general 
roquirements ... the education differs toto cwlo 
from instruction induced by the tests of an ex- 
mmnining body.” — Nineteenth Century, January, 
lsu, D. 29, 

Totus Teres atque Rotundus, 
Finished and completely rounded off. 


Touch. In touch with him. En vap- 
port; in sympathy. The allusion is to 
the touchstoue, which shows by its 


-colour what metal has touched it. 


Touch. 70 /icep touch -—faith, fidelity. 
The allusion is to ‘‘ touching ”’ gold and 
other metals on a touchstone to prove 


Touch At 1 


39 Tout 


them. Shakespeare speaks of ‘friends 
of noble touch ” (proof). 
“ And trust me on my truth, 
If thou keep touch with me, 
My dearest friend, as my own heart, 
Thou shalt right welcome be.” 
George Barnwell (1720). 
Touch At (70). To go to a place 

without stopping at it. 


“The next day we touched at Sidon.” 
XXVii-3. 


Touch Bottom (70). 
worst. A sea-phrase. 

“Tt is much better for the ministry to touch 
bottom at once and know the whole truth, than 
to remain any longer in suspense.”’—Newspuper 
paragraph, January, 1886. 

Touch Up (70). To touch a horse 
with a whip for greater speed. To touch 
up a picture, etc., is to give it a few 
touches to improve it. 


Touch and Go (4). A very narrow 
escape; a very brief encounter. A 
metaphor derived from driving when the 
wheel of one vehicle touches that of 
another passing vehicle without doing 
mischief. It was a touch, but neither 
vehicle was stopped, each went on its 
way. 


Tou'echnet. When Charles IX, intro- 
duced Henri of Navarre to Marie 
Touchet, he requested him to make an 
anagram on her name, and Henri there- 
upon wrote the following :—Je charme 
tout, 


Touchstone. A dark, flinty schist, 
called by the ancients Lapis Lydius ; 
called touchstone because gold is tried 
by it, thus: A series of needles are 
formed (1) of pure gold; (2) of 23 gold 
and 1 copper; (9) of 22 gold and 2 cop- 
per, and soon. The assayer selects one 
of these and rubs it on the touchstone, 
when it leaves a reddish mark in pro- 
portion to the quantity of copper alloy. 
Dr. Ure says: ‘‘In such small work 
as cannot be assayed . . . the as- 
Sayers . . ascertain its quality by 
‘touch.’ ‘They then compare the colour 
left behind, and form their judgment 
accordingly.” 

“ The fable is, that Battus saw Mer- 
cury steal Apollo’s oxen, and Mercury 
gave him a cow to secure his silence on 
the theft. Mercury, distrustful of the 
man, changed himself into a peasant, 
and offered Battus a cow and an ox if he 
would tell him the secret. Battus, 
caught in the trap, told the secret, and 
Mercury changed him into a touchstone. 
(Ovid : Metamorphoses, ii.) 


“Gold is tried by the touchstone,and men by 
gold.”—Bacon, 


— Acts 


To know the 


Touchstone. A clown whose mouth is 
filled with quips and cranks and witty 
repartees, (Shakespeare: As You Like 
Jt.) The original one was Tarlton. 


Touchy. Apt to tike offence on 
slight provocation. Ne tonchez pus, 
* Noli me tangere,’’ one not to be touched. 


Tour. The Grand Tow. Through 
France, Switzerland, Italy, and home by 
Germany. Before railways were laid 
down, this tour was made by most of the 
young aristocratic families as the finish 
of their education. Those who merely 
went to France or Germany were simply 
tourists. 


Tour de Fores. A feat of strength. 


Tourlourou. Young unfledged sol- 
diers of the line, who used to be called 
‘ Jean-Jean.”’ 

“Les Tourlourous sont les nouveaux enrolés, 
ceux qui n'ont pas encore de v jeilles moustaches, 
et qui flanent sur les boulevards en regardaut les 


images, les paillasses, et en cherchant des payses, 
—P.aulde Kock: Un Tourlourou, chap. xiii. 


Tournament or Tournay. A tilt 
of kuights; the chief art of the game 
being so to manceuyre or fi"? your horse 
as toavoid theadversary’s blow. (French, 
tournoiement, verb, towrnoyer.) 

Tournament of the Druwn. A comic 
romance in verse by Sir David Lindsay ; 
a ludicrous mock tournament. 

Tournament of Tottenham. A comic 
romance, printed in Percy’s Leliques. 
A number of clowns are introduced, 
practising warlike games, and making 
vows like knights of high degree. They 
ride tilt on cart-horses, fight with 
plough-shares and flails, and wear for 
armour wooden bowls and saucepan-lids. 
It may be termed the ‘‘high life below 
stairs ’’ of chivalry. 


Tour’nemine (3syl.).  That’s Tow- 
nemine. Your wish was father to the 
thought. Tournemine was a Jesuit of 
the eighteenth century, of a very sau- 
guine and dreamy temperament. 


Tours. Geoffrey of Monmouth says: 
ΚΕ Τὴ the party of Brutus was one Turo’- 
nes, his nephew, inferior to none in 
courage and strength, from whom Tours 
derived its name, being the place of his 
sepulture. Of course, this fable is 
wholly worthless historically. Tours is 
the city of the Tu’ronés, a people of 
Gallia Lugdunensis. 


Tout (pronounce fowt). To ply or 
seek for customers. ‘‘ A touter’’ is one 
who touts. (From Tooting, where 


Tout Hnsemble 1 


40 Tracy 


persons on their way to the court held at 
psom were pestered by ‘‘ touts.”’ 


“A century or two ago, when the court took up 
its quarters at Epsom .. . [many of] the inhabit- 
ants used to station themsely esat the point where 
the roads fork off to Epsom by Tooting and Mer- 
ton, and ‘tout’ the travellers to pass through 
Tooting. It become a common expression for 
carriage-folk to say, ‘The Toots are on us 
again.’’—Walford: Greater London, Vol. ii. p. 530. 


Tout Ensemble (French). The whole 
massed together ; the general effect. 


Tout est Perdu Hormis L’Hon- 
neur, is what Francois I. wrote to his 
mother after the battle of Pa’via. 


Tout le Monde. 
anyone. 


Tower of Hunger. 
UGOLI'NO.) 

Tower of London. The architect 
of this remarkable building was Gundul- 
phus, Bishop of Rochester, who also 
built or restored Rochester keep, in the 
time of William 1. In the Tower lie 
buried Anne Boleyn and her brother ; 
the guilty Catherine Howard, and Lady 
Rochford her associate; the venerable 
Lady Salisbury, and Cromwell the min- 
ister of Henry VIII.; the two Seymours, 
the admiral and pr otector of Edward V Jig 
the Duke of Norfolk and Earl of Sussex 
(Queen Elizabeth’s reign) ; the Duke of 
Monmouth, son of Charles IT. ; the Earls 
of Balmerino and Kilmarnock, and Lord 
Lovat; Bishop Fisher and his ‘illustrious 
friend More. 


Towers of Silence. Towers in 
Persia and India, some sixty feet in 
height, on the top of which Parsees place 
the dead to be eaten by vultures. The 
bones are picked clean in the course of 
a day, and are then thrown into a re- 
ceptacle and covered with charcoal. 


“A procession is then formed,-the friends of 
the dead following the priests to the Towers of 
Silence on Malabar Hill.’—Col. Floyd-Jones. 


* The Parsees will not burn or bury their dead. 
rac ‘use they consider a dead body impure, and 
they will not suffer themselves to defile any of the 
elements. They carry their dead on a bier to the 
Tower of Silence. At theentrance they look their 
last on the dead, and the corpse- hearers carry the 
dead body within the precinctsand lay it down to 
he devoured by vultures which crowd the tower. 
(Vineteenth Century, Oct., 1898, p. 611.) 


Town (1) is the Anglo-Saxon tun, a 
plot of ground fenced round or enclosed 
by a hedge; ; a single dwelling ; a num- 
ber of dwe elling-houses enclosed together 
forming a village or burgh. 


“Our ancestors in time of war... would cast a 
ditch, or make a strong hedge about their houses, 
and houses so eny ironed... got the name tunes 
annexed unto them (as. Cote- tun, now Cotton, the 
cote or house fenced in or tuned about ; North- 
tun, now Norton . South- tun, now Sutton). In 
troublous times whole " thorpes’ were fenced in, 


Everyone who is 


Gualandi. (Sve 


and took the name of tunes (towns), and then 
*stedes’ (now ape and ‘thorpes’ (villages), eo 
burghs (burrows)... got the name of townes 
Restitution, p. 232. 

Town and Gown Row (4). A col- 
lision, often leading to a fight, in the 
English universities between the students 
or gownsmen, and non-gownsmen— 
principally bargees and roughs. (See 
PHILISTINES.) 


Toyshop of Europe (7/v). So 
Burke called Birmingham. Here ‘‘toy”’ 
does not refer to play things for children, 
but small articles made of steel. “ Light 
toys’? in Birmingham mean mounts, 
small steel rings, sword hilts, and so 
on; while ‘‘heavy steel toys’’ mean 
champagne-nippers, sugar-cutters, nut- 
crackers, and all similar articles. 

2Α whim or fancy is a toy. Halli- 
well quotes (JS. Harl. 4888), ““ For 
these causes...she ran atrandom... 
as the toy took her.”’ 

It also means an anecdote or trifling 
story. Hence Latimer (1550) says, ‘‘And 
here I will tell you a merry toy.”’ 


Tracing of a Fortress (712). The 
outline of the fortification, that is, the 
directions in which the masses are laid 
out. 


Tracts for the Times. Published 
at Oxford during the years 1833-1841, 
and hence called the Oxford Tracts. 

A. 1.6. Rev. John Keble, M.A., author 
of the Christian Year, fellow of Oriel, 
and formerly Professor of Poetry at 
Oxford. 

B. Rev. Isaac Williams, Fellow of 
Trinity ; author of The Cathedral, and 
other Poems. 

C. Rev. E. B. Pusey, D.D., Regius 
Professor of Hebrew, and Canon of 
Christ Church. 

D. Rev. John Henry Newman, D.D., 
Fellow of Oriel, writer of the celebrated 
Tract No. 90, which was the last. 

E. Rev. Thomas Keble. 

F. Sir John Provost, Bart. 

G. Rey. R. F. Wilson, of Oriel. 


Tracta'rians. Those who concur in 
the religious views advocated by the 
Oxford Tracts. 


Tracy. A// the Tracys have the wind 
in their faces. Those who do wrong 
will always meet with punishment. Wil- 
liam de Traci was the most active of the 
four knights who slew Thomas a Becket, 
and for this misdeed all who bore the 
name were saddled by the Church with 
this ban: ‘‘ Wherever by sea or land 
they go, the wind in their face shall 


Trade 


1241 


Trammel 


ever blow.’? Fuller, with his usual 
naiveté, says, ‘‘So much the better in 
hot weather, as it will save the need of 
a fan.” 


Trade. 


Trade Mark. A mark adopted by 
a manufacturer to distinguish his pro- 
ductions from those made by other 
persons. 


Trade Winds. Winds that trade 
or tread in one uniform track, In the 
northern hemisphere they blow from the 
north-east, aud in the southern hemi- 
sphere from the south-east, about thirty 
degrees each side of the equator. In 
some places they blow six months in one 
direction, and six in the opposite. It is 
a mistake to derive the word from trade 
(commerce), under the notion that they 
are ‘“‘ good for trade.’? (Anglo-Saxon, 
tredde-wind, a treading wind—i.e. wind 
of a specific “ beat’’ or tread; tredan, 
to tread. ) 


Trade follows the Flag. Colonies 
promote the trade of the mother coun- 
try. The reference is to the custom of 
planting the flag of the mother country 
in every colony. 


(See BALANCE.) 


Tradesmen’s Signs, removed by Act 
of Parliament, 1764. The London Pav- 
ing Act, 6 Geo. 111. 26, 17. 


Traditions. 
TIONS. ) 


Traia Meat. Meat prohibited as food 
by Jews from some ritual defect. It was 
sold cheap to general butchers, but at one 
time the law torbade the sale. In 128) 
Roger de Lakenham, of Norwich, was 
fined for selling ‘‘ Trafa meat.”’ 


(See CHRISTIAN TRADI- 


Tragedy. ‘The goat-song (Greck, 
tragos-odé). The song that wins the 
goat asa prize. This is the explanation 
given by Horace (De Arte Poetica, 220). 
(Sve Comrpy.) 

Tragedy. The first English tragedy 
of any merit was Gorbodue, written by 
‘Thomas Norton and Thomas Sackville. 
(See Ltalph Roister Doister.) 

The Father of Tragedy. Zschylos the 
Athenian. (8.6. 525-426.) Thespis, the 
Richardson of Athens, who went about 
in a waggon with his strolling players, 
was the first to introduce dialogue i in the 
choral odes, and is therefore not unfre- 
quently called the “ Father of Tragedy 
or the Drama.”’ 

“ Thespis was first wlio, all besmear ed with lee, 


Began this pleasure for posterity.” 
Dryden: Art of Poetry (Tragedy), c. iii. 


Father of French Tragedy. Garnier 


(1534-1590). 


Trail. The trail of the serpent is over 
them all. Sin has set his mark on all. 
(Thomas Moore: Paradise and the Peri.) 


Traitors’ Bridge. 4 loyal jheart 
may be landed under Traitors’? Bridge. 
Traitor’s Bridge, in the Tower, was the 
way by which persons charged with high 
treason entered that State prison, 


Traitors’ Gate opens from the Tower 
of London to the Thames, and was the 
gate by which persons accused of treason 
entered their prison. 


Trajan’s Column commemorates his 
victories over the Dacians. It was the 
work of Apollodorus. The column of 
the Place |’endéme, Paris, is a model 
of it. 

Trajan’s Wall. A line of fortifica- 
tions stretching across the Dobrudscha 
from Czernavoda to the Black Sea, 


Tram (4). A car which runs on a 
tramway (η.1.). “rams in collieries 
were in use in the seventeenth century, 
but were not introduced into our streets 
till 1868. 

Tramway or Tram Rails. A rail- 
way for tram-carts or waggons, origin- 
ally made of wooden rails. ron 
rails were first laid down in 1738, but 
apparently were called ‘‘dram-roads ”’ 
(Greek, dram-ein, torun). We are told 
there were waggons called drams (or 
trams). Benjamin Outram, in. 1800, 
used s/one rails at Little Eaton, Derby- 
shire; but the similarity between trai 
and Outram is a mere coincidence. 
Perhaps he was the cause of the word 
dram being changed to dram, but even 
this is doubtful. (See Rees’ Cyclopedia.) 

“Trams are a kind of sledge on which coals are 
hrought from the place where they are hewn to 
the shaft. A tram has four wheels. but a sledge 
is without wheels.’— Brand: History of New- 
castle-upon- Tyne, VO. li. Pp. 681, 1. (A789) 

Tramecksan and Slamecksan. 
The high heels and low heels, the two 
great political factions of Lilliput. The 
high heels are the Tories, and the low 
heels the Radicals of the kingdom. ‘‘ The 
animosity of these two factions runs so 
high that they will neither eat, nor drink, 
nor speak to each other.’? The king was 
a low heel in politics, but the heir-ap- 
parent a high heel. (Swift: Gulliver's 
Travels ; Voyage to Lilliput, chap. iv.) 

Trammel means to catch in a net. 
(French, tramail, trame, a woof; verb, 
tramer, to weaye.) 


Tramontane 


Tra/montane (3 syl.). The north 
oe ; so called by the Italians because 
to them it comes over the mountains. 
The Italians also apply the term to Ger- 
man, French, and other artists born 
north of the Alps, French lawyers, on 
the other hand, apply the word to /falian 
canonists, whom they consider too Ro- 
manistic. We in England generally call 
overstrained Roman Catholic notions 
* Ultramontane.”’ 


Translator (4). A cobbler, who 
translates or transmogrifies two pairs of 
worn-out shoes into one pair capable of 
being worn; a reformer, who tries to 
cobble the laws, 

“The dull ἃ la mode reformers or translators 
lave pulled the church all to p eces and Know 


not how to pateh if up again.”—Mereurius Prag- 
geaticus (March, 1017. No. 27). 


Translator-General. So Fuller, in 
his Worthies, calls Philemon Holland, 
who translated a large number of the 
Greek and Latin classics, (1991-1636.) 


Trap. A carriage, especially such as 
a phieton, dog-cart, commercial sulky, 
and such like. It is not applied to a 
gentleman’s close carriage. Contraction 
of trappings (whatever is ‘‘ put on,” 
furniture for horses, decorations, etc.). 

“The trap in question was a carriage which the 
Major had bought for six pounds: sterling.’ — 
Thackeray: Vanity Fair, chap. 1xvil. 

Traps. Luggage, as ‘‘ Leave your traps 
at the station,” ‘‘I must look after my 
traps,”’ ete. (See above.) 

“The traps were packed up as quickly as pos- 
sible, and the party droveaway.”—WUaily Telegraph, 

Trapani. The Count de Trapani 
was the ninth child of Mary Isabel and 
Ferdinand II. of the two Sicilies. He 
married the Archduchess Mary, daughter 
of Leopold II., Grand Duke of Tuscany. 

N.B. Francis de Paul, usually called 
Louis- Emmanuel, Count of Trapani, was 
born in 1827. 

Trapani, The Spaniards, in pitiless 
raillery of the Spanish marriages, called 
the ¢vapos or dishclouts used by waiters 
in the cafés to wipe down the dirty tables 
trapani. 


Trapper, in America, is one whose 
vocation is to set traps for wild animals 
for the sake of their furs. 

The Trapper. (Sce Narry Bumrro.) 


Trappists. A religious order, so 
called from La Trappe, an abbey of the 
Cistercian order, founded in the middle 
of the twelfth century. 


Tras'go. Same as Duende (¢7.7.). 


124 


2 Treasures 


Travels in the Blue. A brown 


study ; in cloudland. 
“Finding him gone for‘ travels in the blue,’ 1 


respected his mood, and did not resent bis long 
mutism. —Remin, ton Annual, sv, p. 61. 


Traveller’s Licence. The long bow ; 
exaggeration, 

Tt the οἱ aptain has not taken ‘traveller's li- 
cence, we have in Norway a most successful de- 
velopme nt of peasant proprietorship.” — W. 
Bowermun, 

Travia'ta. An opera representing 
the progress of a courtesan. The li- 
bretto is borrowed from a French novel, 
called La Dame aux Camélias, by Alex- 
audre Dumas, jun. It was dramatised 
for the French stage. The music of the 
opera is by Giuseppe Verdi. 


Tre, Pol, Pen. 
“ By their Tre, their Pol, and Pen, 
Ye shall know the Cornish men.” 
The extreme east of Cornwall is noted 
Tre, the extreme west for J’o/, the 
centre for Pen, 

On December 19th, 1891, the follow- 
ing residents are mentioned by the Lamn- 
cesion Weekly News as attending the 
funeral of a gentleman who lived at 
Tre-hummer House, Tresmere :—Resi- 
dents from Trevell, Tresmarrow,Treglith, 
Trebarrow, Treludick, etc., with Tre- 
leaven the Mayor of Launceston. 


Treacle [#)ce-/’/] properly means an 
antidote against the bite of wild beasts 
(Greek, the'rviaka [pharmaka], from ἐλ δ)" 
a wild beast). The ancients gave the 
name to several sorts of antidotes, but 
ultimately it was applied chiefly to 
Venice treacle (ti¢riaca androchi), a 
compound of some sixty-four drugs in 
honey. 

* Sir Thomas More speaks of “a 
most strong treacle (1.6. antidote) against 
these venomous heresies.’? And in an 
old version of Jeremiah viii. 22, “ἢ balm”’ 
is translated treacle —‘‘ Is there no treale 
at Gileal? Is there πὸ phisitian 
there?” ; 


Treading on QOne’s Corns. 
CoRNS. ) 


Treasures. These are my treasures ; 
meaning the sick and poor, So said St. 
Lawrence when the Roman preetor com- 
manded him to deliver up his treasures, 
He was then condemned to be roasted 
alive on a gridiron (258). 

One day a lady from Campa‘nia called 
upon Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, 
and after showi ing her jewels, requested 
in return to see those belonging to the 
famous mother-in-law of Africanus, 


(See 


- Ξ 
ot «- 


Treasury of Sciences 


1243 


Tree 


Cornelia sent for her two sons, and said 
to the lady, ‘‘ These are my jewels, <n 
which alone I delight.”’ 


Treasury of Sciences. Bokhara 
(Asia), the centre of learning. It has 
103 colleges, with 10,009 students, be- 
sides a host of schools and 360 mosques, 


Tree. The oldest in the world— 

(1) De Candolle considers the decidu- 
ous cypress of Chapultepec, in Mexico, one 
of the oldest trees in the world, 

(2) The chestnut-trecs on Mount Etna, 
and the Oriental p/ane-tice in the valley 
of Bujukdere, near Constantinople, are 
supposed to be of about the same age. 

(3) The Rev. W. Tuckwell says the 
** oldest tree in the world is the Soni 
cypress of Lombardy. It was forty years 
old when Christ was born.” 

Trees of a patriarchal age. 

I. Oaks. 

(1) Danorey’s Oak, Dorsetshire, 2,000 
years old, Blown down in 1703. 

(2) The great Oak of Saintes, in the 


department of Charente Inférieure, is | 


from 1,800 to 2,000 years old. 

(3) The Winfarthing Oal:, Norfolk, 
and the Bentley Oak were 700 years old 
at the time of the Conquest. 

(4) Cowthorpe Oak, near Wetherby, 
Yorkshire, according to Professor Burnet, 
is 1,600 years old, 

(5) Witham the 


Yonqueror’s Oak, 


Windsor Great Park, is at least 1,200 


years old. 

(6) The Ball Oak, Wedgenock Park, 
and the Plestor Oak, Colborne, were in 
existence at the time of the Conquest. 

(7) The Oak of the Partisans, in the 
forest of Parey, St. Quen, is above 650 
years old. Wallace’s Oak, at Ellersley, 
near Paisley, was probably fifty years 
older. Blown down in 1859. 

(8) Owen Glendower’s Oak, Shelton, 
near Shrewsbury, is so called because 
that chieftain witnessed from its branches 
the battle between Henry IV. and Harry 
Perey, in 1403. Other famous oaks are 
those called The Twelve Apostles and 
The Four Evangelists. 

(9) In the Dukeries, Nottinghamshire, 
are some oaks of memorable age and 
renown: (4) In the Duke of Portland’s 
Park is an oak called Ltobin Hood's Lar- 
der. It is only a shell, held together 
with strong iron braces. 

The Parliament Oak, Clipston, Notts, is 
said to be above 1,000 years old. We are 
told that EewardI., hunting in Sherwood 
Forest, was informed of the Welsh revolt, 
and summoued a ‘‘ parliament” of his 
barons under this oak, and it was agreed 


to make war of extermination on Wales. 
Others say it was under this tree that 
King John assembled his barons and 
decreed the execution of Prince Arthur. 
The Parliament Oak is split into two 
distinct trees, and though both the 
trunks are hollow, they are both covered 
with foliage and acorns atop during the 
season. 

The Major Oal:, in the park of Lord 
Manvers, is a veritable giant. In the 
hollow trunk fifteen persous of ordinary 
size may find standing room. At its 
base it measures 90 feet, and at 5 feet 
from the ground about 35 feet. Its head 
coyers a circumference of 270 yards. 

Another venerable oak (some say 1,500 
years old) is Greendale Oak, about halt a 
mile from Welbeck Abbey. [10 is a mere 
ruin supported by props and chains. It 
has a passage through the bole large 
enough to admit three horsemen abreast, 
and a coach-and-four has been driven 
through it. 

The Seren Sisters Oak, in the same 
vicinity, is so called because the trunk 
was composed of seven stems. It still 
stands, but in a very dilapidated state. 


11. Yrews. 


(1) Of Braburn, in Kent, according to 
De Candolle, is 3,000 years old. 

(2) The Scotch yew at Fortingal, in 
Perthshire, is between 2,500 and 3,000 
years. 

(3) Of Darley churchyard, Derbyshire, 
about 2,050 years. 

(4) Of Crowhurst, Surrey, about 1,400. 

(5) The three at Fuuntains Abbey, in 
Yorkshire, at least 1,200 years. Beneath 
these trees the founders of the abbey 
held their council in 1132. 

(6) The yew grove of Norbury Parl, 
Surrey, was standing in the time of the 
Druids. 

(7) The yew-trees at Aingsley Botiom, 
near Chichester, were standing when the 
sea-kings landed on the Sussex coast. 

(8) ‘lhe yew-tree of Harlington church- 
yard, Middlesex, is above 850 years old. 

(9) That at Ankerwyke House, near 
Staines, was noted when Magna Charta 
was signed in 1215, and it was the 
{rystiug tree for Henry VIII. and Anne 
Boleyn. 

IIT. MiscELLANEOUS. 

(0) The eight olive-trees on the Mount 
of Ulives Were flourishing 870) years ago, 
when the Turks took Jerusalem. 

(2) The lime-tree in the Grisons is up- 
wards of 590 years old. 

< The spruce will reach to the age of 
1,200 years, 


Tree of Buddha 


1244 


Tressure 


4 The poet’s tree. A tree grows over 
the tomb of Tan-Sein, a musician of in- 
comparable skill at the court of Akbar, 
and it is said that whoever chews a 
leaf of this tree will have extraordinary 
melody of voice, (IV. ILunter,) 

“ His voice was as sweet as if he had chewed the 
leaves of that enchanted tree which grows over 
the tomb of the musician Tan-Sein.’’— Moore: 
Lalla Rookh. 

"| The singing tree. Each leaf was a 
mouth, and every leaf joined in concert. 
(Arabian Nights.) 

He is altogether up the tree. Quite 
out of the swim, nowhere in the com- 
petition list. 

Upatree. In a difficulty, in a mess. 
It is said that Spurgeon used to practise 
his students in extempore preaching, and 
that one of his young men, on reaching 
the desk and opening the note containing 
his text, read the single word ‘‘Zacchzeus” 
as his text. He thought a minute or 
two, and then delivered himself thus :— 
“ Zaccheus was a little man, so am I; 
Zaccheus was up a tree, so am I; Zac- 
cheus made haste and came down, and 
so do I.” 


Tree of Buddha (7/c). 
tree. 


Tree of Knowledge (712). Genesis 
11: 9. 

Tree of Liberty. A tree set up by 
the people, hung with flags and devices. 
and crowned with a cap of liberty. 
The Americans of the United States 
planted poplars and other trees during 
the war of independence, ‘‘as symbols 
of growing freedom.” The Jacobins in 
Paris planted their first tree of liberty 
in 1790. The symbols used in France 
to decorate their trees of liberty were 
tricoloured ribbons, circles to indicate 
unity, triangles. to signify equality, and 
acap of hberty. Trees of lhberty were 
planted by the Italians in the revolution 
of 1848. 


Tree of Life. 


The bo- 


Genesis li. 9, 


Trees. 7ices burst into leaf— 

Ash earliest May 13th, Jatest June 14th. 
Becch Ἢ April 19th, » May 7th. 

Damson ay March 28th, .. May 13th. 
Tlorse-chestnut  ,, March lith, ,, April 19th. 
Larch “4 March 2ist, = ,,. April 14th. 
Line ἘΞ April 6th, »* May 2nd. 

Mulberry = May 12th, » sune 23rd. 
Ouk = April 10th, May 26th. 
Poplar A March 6th, » Aprill9th. 
Spanish chestnut,, April 20th, » May 20th. 


Sycamore a March zsth, ,, April 23rd, 


§| Trees of the Sunand Moon. Oracular 
trees growing “αὖ the extremity of 
India,’’ mentioned in the Italian ro- 
mance of Guerino Meschino, 


Tregea’gle. 70 roar like Tregeagle — 
very loudly. Tregeagle is the giant of 
Dosmary Pool, on Bodmin Downs rae 
wall), whose allotted task is to bale out 
the water with a limpet-shell. When 
the wintry blast howls over the downs, 
the people say it is the giant roaring. 
(See GIANTS. ) 


Tregetour. A conjurer or juggler. 
(From Old French, tresgiat = a juggling 
trick.) The performance of a conjurer was 
anciently termed his ‘‘ minstrelsy ; ’’ thus 
we read of Janio the juggler—‘‘ Janio 
ie tregettor, facienti ministralsiam suam 
coram rege... 205." (Lib. Comput. 
Garderobe, an, (4 Edw. 11. fol. 86), ALS. 
Cott. Nero, chap. viii.) 


Tremont. Boston in Massachusetts 
was once so called, from the three hills 
on which the city stands. 


Trench-the-Mer. The galley of 
Richard Caur de Lion ; so called from 
its ‘‘fleetness,’? Those who sailed in it 
were called by the same name. 


Trencher. 4 good trencher-man. A 
good eater, The trencher is the platter 
on which food is cut (French, ¢rancher, 
to cut), by a figure of speech applied to 
food itself. 

He that waits for anothers trencher, 
eats many a late dinner. He who is 
dependent on others must wait, and 
wait, and wait, happy if after waiting 
he gets anything at all. 


“Oh, how wretched 
Ts that poor man that hangs on princes’ favours! 
There is, betwixt that smile he would aspire to, 
That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin, 
More pangs and fears than wars or women have.” 
Shakespeare: Henry VIIL, iii. 2. 

Trencher Cap. The mortar-board 
cap worn at college; so called from the 
trenchered or split boards which form 
the top. Mortar-board is a perversion 
of the French mortier. 


Trencher Friends. Persons who 
cultivate the friendship of others for the 
sake of sitting at their board, and the 
good things they can get. 


Trencher Knight. A table knight, 
a suitor from cupboard love. 


Trenchmore. <A popular dance in 
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 
“Nimble-heeled mariners ... capering .. 
sometimes a Morisco, or Trenchmore of forty 

miles long.”—Taylor the Water-Poet. 
Tres’sure (2 syl.). A border round 
a shield in heraldry. The origin of the 
tressure in the royal arms of Scotland is 
traced by heralds to the ninth century. 
They assert that Charlemagne granted it 


Tréves 


1245 


Trieste 


to King Achaius of Scotland in token of 
alliance, and as an assurance that ‘‘ the 
lilies of France should be a defence to 
the lion of Scotland.’’ Chalmers insinu- 
ates that these two monarchs did not 
even know of each other’s existence, 

Tréves (1 syl.). 
Tréves. A relic preserved in the cathedral 
of Treves. It is said to be the seamless 
coat of our Saviour, which the soldiers 
would not rend, and therefore cast lots 
for. (John xix. 23, 25.) The Empress 
Helena, it is said, discovered this coat 
in the fourth century. 


Trevéthy Stone. St. Clear, Corn- 
wall. A cromlech, ‘Trevédi, in British, 
means a place of graves. 


Tria Juncta in Uno, 
the Order ot the Bath. 


Triads. Three subjects more or less 
connected formed into one continuous 
poem or subject: thus the Creation, Le- 
demption, and Resurrection would form a 
triad. The conquest of England by the 
Romans, Saxons, and Normans would 
form a triad. Alexander the Great, Julius 
Caesar, and Napoleon Bonaparte would 
form a triad. So would Law, Physic, 
and Divinity. The Welsh triads are col- 
lections of historic facts, mythological 
traditions, moral maxims, or rules of 
poetry disposed in groups of three. 


Trials at Bar. Trials which occupy 
the attention of the four judges in the 
superior court, instead of at Visi Prius. 
These trials are for very difficult causes, 
and before special juries. (See /Vharton : 
Law Lexicon, article ‘ Bar,’’) 


Triamond. Son of Ag‘apé, a fairy; 
very daring and very strong. He fought 
on horseback, and employed both sword 
and shield. Hemarried (ποθ, (Spev- 
ser : Faérie Queene, bk. iv.) (See PRIA- 
MOND.) 

Triangles. Tied up at the triangles. 
A machine to which a soldier was at one 
time fastened when flogged. 

“ He was tied up at the triangles, and branded 
*D."—Ouida: Under Two Flags, chap. vii. 

Triangular Part of Man (7/e). 
The body. Spenser says, ‘‘The divine 
part of man is cireular, but the mortal 
part is triangular.” (Faérie Queene, 
book ii. 9.) 

Tribune. Last of the Tribunes. Cola 
di Rienzi, who assumed the title of 
“Tribune of liberty, peace, and justice.”’ 
Rienzi is the hero of one of Lord Lyt- 
ton’s most vigorous works of fiction. 
(1313-1354.) 


The motto of 


The Holy Coat of 


Tribune of the People (4). A 
democratic leader. 

“Delmar had often spoken of Alman, and of his 
power in the East End, and she had come to the 
conclusion that he was no ordinary man, this 
tribune of the people.’—T. Terrell : Lady Delmar, 
bk. ii. chap. vill. ἐ 

Trice. 11 doit ina trice. The hour 
is divided into minutes, seconds, and 
trices or thirds. 11] do it ina minute, 
ΤΊ] do it in a second, 111 do it in a trice. 


Trick. An old dog learns no tricks. 
When persons are old they do not readily 
conform to new ways. ‘The Latin pro- 
verb is ‘ Senex psittacus negligit feru- 
lam ;’’ the Greeks said, ‘‘ Nekvon vat’ - 
reuecin kai geronta nor'thetein tauton 
esti ;’’? the Germans say, ‘‘ Hin alter 
hund ist nicht gut kundigen.” 


Tricolour. Flags or ribbons with 
three colours, assumed by nations or in- 
surgents as symbols of political liberty. 
The present European tricolour ensigns 
are, for— 

Belgium, vlack, yellow, red, divided 
vertically. 

France, blue, white, red, divided verti- 


cally. (Sce below.) 

Holland, ved, white, blue, divided 
horizontally. 

Italy, green, white, red, divided verti- 
cally. 


Tricolour of France. The insurgents 
in the French Revolution chose the three 
colours of the city of Paris for their 
symbol. The three colours were first 
devised by Mary Stuart, wife of Francois 
II. The white represented the royal house 
of France; the δέ, Scotland ; and the 
ved, Switzerland, in compliment to the 
Swiss guards, whose livery it was. The 
heralds afterwards tinctured the shield 
of Paris with the three colours, thus ex- 
pressed in heraldic language: ‘‘ Paris 
portait de gueules, sur vaisseau εἰ argent, 
Jlottant sur des ondes de méme, le chef 
cousu de France”? (a ship with white 
sails, on a ved ground, with a blue chef). 
The usual tale is that the insurgents in 
1789 had adopted for their flag the two 
colours, red and blue, but that Lafayette 
persuaded them to add the Bourbon 
white, to show that they bore no hos- 
tility to the king. The first flag of the 
Republicans was green. The tricolour 
was adopted July 11th, when the people 
were disgusted with the king for dis- 
missing Necker. 

“Tf you will wear a livery, let it at least be that 


of the city of Paris—blue and red.’—Dumas:; Six 
Years Afterwards, chap. Xv. 


Triest’e (2 syl.). Since 1816 it has 


Trigon 


borne the title of ‘‘the most loyal of 
towns.” 


Trigon. The junction of three signs. 
The zodiac is partitioned into four tri- 
gons, hamed respectively after the four 
elements ; the «watery trigon includes 
Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces ; the fiery, 
Avies, Leo, and Sagittarius ; the carthy, 
Taurus, Virgo, and Capricornus; and 
the airy, Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius. 


Trilogy. A group of three tragedies. 
Everyone in Greece who took part in the 
poetic contest had to produce a trilogy 
and a satyric drama. We have only one 
specimen, and that is by ASschylos, em- 
bracing the Agamemnon, the Choéphore, 
and the Bwnen'idés, 


Trimilki. The Anglo-Saxon name 
for the month of May, because in that 
month they began to milk their kine 
three times a day. 


Trimmer. One who runs with the 
hare and holds with the hounds. Charles 
Montagu, Earl of Halifax, adopted the 
term in the reign of Charles IT. to signify 
that he was neither an extreme Whig 
nor an extreme Tory. Dryden was called 
a trunmer, because he professed attach- 
ment to the king, but was the avowed 
enemy of the Duke of York. 


Trin’culo. A jester in Shakespeare’s 
Tempest, 


Trine. In astrology, a planet distant 
from another one-third of the circle is 
said to be in trine ; one-fourth, it is in 
square ; one-sixth or two signs, it is in 
sextile ; but when one-half distant, it is 
said to be “ opposite.” 


“Tn sextfle, square, and trine, and opposite 
Of noxious efficacy. 
Milton: Paradise Lost, x. 659. 


N.B. Planets distant from each other 
six signs or half a circle have opposite 
influences, and are therefore opposed to 
each other. 


Trinity. Tertullian (160-240) intro- 
duced this word into Christian theology. 
The word triad is much older. Almost 
every mythology has a threefold deity. 
(See THREE.) 


American Indians, 
ata. 

Brahmins. Their “ tri-murti” isa three-headed 
deity, representing Brahma (as creator), Vishuu 
(as preserver), and Siva (as destroyer), 

Celis. Hu, Ceridwen,and Craiwy. 

Cherusci. A three- headed god called Trigiat. 

Chinese have the triple goddess Pussa. 

Druids. Tanlac., Fan. and Mollac, 

Evyptians. Osiris, Isis, and Horus. 

Eleusin'ian Mysteries. Bacchus, Persephone 
(4syl., and Demeter, 

Goths, Woden, Frigga,and Thor. 

Greece (ancient). Zeus ‘a syl.), Aphrodite, and 
Apollo, 


Otkon, Messou, and Atahu- 


1246 


Tripos 


Tesini of Britain. 

Mevicans., 

Peruvians. 
quuequi. 

Persians (ancient), Their “ Triplasian deity” 
was Oromasdes, Mithras, and Arim/anes, 

Phenicians. ‘Ast: troth, Mileom, and Chemoth, 

Romans Cancient). Jupiter (divine power), 
Minery a (divine Logos or wisdom), and Juno 
tealled “amor et delicium Jovis ").—Vossius : De 
Theologia Gentil, viii, 12. Their three chief deities 
were Jupiter, Neptone, and Pluto. 

Se undinavians. Odin (who gave the breath of 
life), Hwnir (who gave sense and motion), and 
Lodur (who gaye blood, colour, Speech, sight, and 
hearing). 

a ians. Belus, Venus, and Tamuz, ete. 

~ Orpheus (2 syl.). His triad was Phanés, 
τ πεν and Kronos. 

Plato, His triad was To Ag’athon (Goodness), 
Nous or Eternal Wisdom (architect of the World) 
oe Proverbs iii. 19), and Psyché (the mundane 
Soul. 

Pythagoras, Wis triad was the Monad or Unity, 
Nous or Wisdom, and Psyche, 


Got, Ertha, and Issus. 
Vitzputzli, Tlaloc, and Tezeailipoea. 
Aponiti, Chureonti, and = Inte- 


Trinoban'tes (4 syl.). Inhabitants 
of Middlesex and Essex, referred to in 
Cesar’s Gallic Wars. This word, con- 
verted into Trinovantes, gave rise to the 
myth that the people referred to came 
from Troy. 


Trino'da Necessitas. The three 
contributions to wich all lands were 
subject in Anglo-Saxon times, viz.— 
(1) Bryge-bot, for keeping bridges and 
high roads in repair; (2) Burg-lot, for 
Fyrd, for maintaining the military and 
keeping fortresses in repair; and (5) 
naval force of the kingdom. 


Tripit’aka means the ‘‘triple basket,” 
a term applied to the three classes into 
which the canonical writings of the 
Buddha are divided—viz. the Soutras, 
the Vina’ya, and the Abidharma. (Sze 
these words.) 


Triple Alliance. 

A treaty entered into by England, 
Sweden, and Holland against Louis X1V. 
in 1668. It ended in the treaty of Aix- 
la-Chapelle. (See next page.) 

A treaty between England, France, and 
Holland against Charles XII. This 
league was called the Quadruple after 
Germany joined it. (1717.) 

A third (1789) between Great Britain, 
Holland, and Russia, against Catherine 
of Russia in defence of ‘Turkey. 

A fourth in 1883, between Germany, 
Italy, and Austria, against France and 
Russia. 


Tripos. A Cambridge term, meaning 
the three honour classes into which the 
best men are disposed at the final exami- 
nation, whether of Mathematics, Law, 
Theology, or Natural Science, ete. The 
word is often emphatically applied to 
the voluntary classical examination. 


Trismegistus 


1247 


Troilus 


Trismegis'tus [t/rice greatest]. Her- 
més, the Egyptian philosopher, or Thoth, 
councillor of Osiris, King of Egypt, to 
whom is attributed a host of inventions 
—amongst others the art of writing in 
hicroglyphics, the first code of Keyptian 
luws, harmony, astrology, the lute and 
lyre, magic, and all mysterious sciences. 

Tristram (Sir), Tristrem, Tristan, 
or Tristam. Son οὗ Roulaad Rise, Lord 
of Ermonie, and Blanche Fleur, sister of 
Marke, King of Cornwall. Having lost 
both his parents, he was brought up by 
his uncle. Tristram, being wounded in a 
duel, was cured by Ysolde, daughter of 
the Queen of Ireland, and on his return 
to Cornwall told his uncle of the beauti- 
ful princess. Marke sent to solicit her 
hand in marriage, and was accepted. 
Ysolde married the king, but was in 
love with the nephew, with whom she 
had guilty connection, Tristram being 
banished from Cornwall, went to Brit- 
tany, and married Ysolt of the White 
Hand, daughter of the Duke of Brittany. 
Tristram then went on his adventures, 
and, being wounded, was informed that 
he could be cured only by Ysolde. A 
messenger is dispatched to Cornwall, 
and is ordered to hoist a white 511] 
if Ysolde accompanies him back. The 
vessel came in sight with a white sail 
displayed; but Ysolt of the White Hand, 
out of jealousy, told her husband that 
the vessel had a black sail flying, and 
Tristram instantly expired. Sir Tristram 
was one of the knights of the Round 
Table. Gotfrit of Strasbourg, a German 
minnesdnger (minstrel) at the close of the 
twelfth century, composed a romance in 
verse, entitled 7vistan εὐ Isolde. It was 
continued by Ulrich of Turheim, by 
Henry of Freyberg, and others, to the 
extent of many thousand verses. The 
best edition is that of Breslau, two vols. 
8vo, 1823. (See Ysour, HERMITE.) 

Sir Tristrau’s horse, Passet’reul. 

Triton. Son of Neptune, represented 
as a fish with a human head. It is this 
sea-god that makes the roaring of the 
ocean by blowing through his shell. 
“Hear old Triton blow his wreathéd horn [hear 

the sea roar].” Wordsworth. 

A Triton among the minnows. The 
sun among inferior lights. Luna inter 
MiNOYES ignes, 


Triumph. A word formed from 
thriambos, the Dionysiac hymn. 


“Some...have assigned the origin of... 
triumphal processions to the mythic pomps of 
Dionysus, after his conyuests in the East, the 
very word triumph being ... the Dionysiac 
hymn.’—Pater: Marius the Epicurean, clay. Xii. 


Trivet. Rightasatrivet. (See Riau.) 


_ Trivia. Goddess of streets and ways. 
Gay has a poem in three books so en- 
titled. 


Through 
along ... 
To pave thy realm, and smooth the broken ways, 
Karth from her womb a flinty tribute pays.” _ 
Gay: Trivia, bk. 1. 
Trivial, strictly speaking, means 
“belonging to the beaten road.”’ (Latin, 
trivinm, which is not tres vie {three 
roads], but from the Greek ¢ribo [to 
rub], meaning the worn or beaten path.) 
As what comes out of the road is com- 
mon, so trivial means of little value. 
Trench connects this word with trivimn 
(tres vie or cross ways), and says the 
gossip carried on at these places gave 
rise to the present meaning of the word. 


Trivium. The three elementary 
subjects of literary education up to the 
twelfth century—Grammar, Rhetoric, 
and Logic. (Sze QUADRIVIUM.) 

N.B. Theology was introduced in 
the twelfth century. 

Trochilus (Ze), says Barrow, 
‘fenters with impunity into the mouth 
of the crocodile. This is to pick from 
the teeth a leech which greatly torments 
the creature. 


_ “Thon, Trivia, aid my song. 
spacious streets conduct thy bard 


“Not half so bold 
The puny bird that dares, with teasing hum, 
Within the crocodile's stretched jaws to come.” 
Thomas Movre,: Lalla Rookh, pt. i. 
Troglodytes (3 syl.). A people of 
Ethiopia, south-east of Egypt. Remains 
of their cave dwellings are still to be 
seen along the banksof the Nile. There 
were Troglodytes of Syria and Arabia 
also, according to Strabo. Pliny (v. 8) 
asserts that they fed on serpents. (Greek, 
trog'lé, a cave ; duo, to get into.) 
“King Francois, of eternal memory 


horred these hypocritical snake-eaters Ξ 
belais: Gargantua and Pantagruel (Ep. Ded. ἵν.). 


Trog'lodyte. A person who lives so 
secluded as not to know the current 
events of the day, is so self-opinion- 
ated as to condemn everyone who sees 
not eye to eye with himself, and scorns 
everything that comes not within the 
scope of his own approval ; a detractor ; 
a eritic. The Saturday Review intro- 
duced this use of the word. (See above.) 

“" Miners are sometimes facetiously 
called Troglodytes. 


Troilus (3 syl.). The prince of 
chivalry, one of the sons of Priam, 
killed by Achilles in the siege of Troy 
(Homer's Iliad). The loves of Troilus 


and Cressida, celebrated by Shakespeare 


Troilus and Cressida 


and Chaucer, form no part of the old 
classic tale. 

As true as Troilus. Troilus is meant 
by Shakespeare to be the type of con- 
stancy, and Cressid the type of female 
inconstancy. (See CRESSIDA.) 

“ After all comparisons of truth... 

* As trueas Troilus’ shall crown up the verse, 

And sanctify the numbers.” 

Troilus and Cressida, iii. 2. 

Troilus and Cres'sida (Shajse- 
speare). ‘he story was originally writ- 
ten by Lollius, an old Lombard author, 
and since by Chaucer (/pe). Chaucer’s 
poem is from Boceaccio’s Liostrato. 


Trois pour Cent. A cheap hat. 
“Running with bare head about, 
While the town is tempest-tost, 
*Prentice lads unheeded shout 
That their three-per-cents. are lost.” 
Deéswugiers : Le Pilier du Café. 

Trojan. J/e is a regular Trojan. A 
fine fellow, with good courage and plenty 
of spirit; what the French call a brave 
homme. 'The Trojans in Homer’s Jliad 
and Virgil’s -2neid are described as 
truthful, brave, patriotic, and confiding. 

“There they say rizht, and like true Trojans.” 
Butler: Hudibras, i. 1. 

Trojan War (1716). The siege of 
Troy by the Greeks. After a siege of 
ten years the city was taken and burnt 
to the ground. The last year of the 
siege is the subject of Homer’s J/iad ; 
the burning of Troy and the flight of 
/Mnéas is a continuation by Virgil in his 
Enéid. 

The Trojan War, by Henry of Veldig, 
(Waldeck), a minnesinger (twelfth cen- 
tury) is no translation of either Homer 
or Virgil, but a German adaptation of 
the old tale. By far the best part of this 
poetical romance is where Lavinia tells 
her tale of love to her mother, 


Trolls. Dwarfs of Northern mytho- 
logy, living in hills or mounds ; they are 
represented as stumpy, misshapen, and 
humpbacked, inclined to thieving, and 
fond of carrying off children or substi- 
tuting one of their own offspring for that 
of a human mother. They are called 
hill-people, and are especially averse to 
noise, from a recollection of the time 
when Thor used to be for ever flinging 
his hammer after them. (Icelandic, 
troll.) (See Farry.) 

“ Out then spake the tiny Troll, ' 
No bigger than an emmet he.” 
Danish ballad, Eline of Villenskov. 

Trolly. A cart used in mines and on 
railways. A railway trolly is worked 
by the hand, which moves a treadle; a 
coal-mine trolly used to be pushed by 
trolly-boys; ponies are now generally 


1248 


Troubadours 


employed instead of boys. (Welsh, trol, 
a cart; trolio, to roll or trundle, whence 
“to troll a catch’’—i.e. to sing a catch 
or round. ) 


Trompée. Jolre religion a été trompée. 
You have been greatly imposed upon. 


Similarly, ‘* Suprendre la religion de 
quelqwiun”? is to deceive or impose 
upon one. Cardinal de Bonnechose 


used the former phrase in his letter to 
The Times respecting the Report of the 
(Ecumenical Council, and it puzzled the 
English journals, but was explained by 
M. Notterelle. (See Zhe Limes, January 
Ist, 1870.) 

We use the word fuith both for 
“‘ credulity ’’ and ‘religion’? — e.g. - 
“Your faith (credulity) has been im- 
posed upon.’? The ‘‘Catholie faith,” 
**Mahometan faith,’? ‘* Brahminical 
faith,”’ ete., virtually mean ‘‘ religion.”’ 


Troness, Tronis, or Trophy Money, 
or Trophy Tax. ‘‘ A duty of fourpence 
{in the pound] paid annually by house- 
keepers or their landlords, for the drums, 
colours [trophies], ete., of the companies 
or regiments of militia.’”? (Dr. Scott's 
Baileys Dictionary.) 


Troopers mean troopships, as ‘‘ In- 
dian troopers,’’ ships for the convey- 
ance of troops to India, especially be- 
tween February and October, when the 
annual reliefs of British forces in India 
are made. Similarly, whaler is a ship 
for whaling. 


Troops of the Line. ΑἸ] numbered 
infantry or marching regiments, except 
the foot-guards. 


Tropho’nios (Greek), Latin, 17)0- 
pho'nius, He has visited the cave of 
Trophonius (Greek). Said of a melan- 
choly man. The cave of Trophonius 
was one of the most celebrated oracles 
of Greece. The entrance was so narrow 
that he who went to consult the oracle 
had to lie on his back with his feet 
towards the cave, whereupon he was 
caught by some unseen force and vio- 
lently pulled inside the cave. After 
remaining there a time, he was driven 
out in similar fashion, and looked most 
ghastly pale and terrified; hence the 
proverb. 

Trou badours (3 syl.). Minstrels of 
the south of France in the eleventh, 
twelfth, and thirteenth centuries; so 
called from the Proy-ngal verb trowbar 
(to invent). Our werd poet signifies ex- 
actly the same thing, being the Greek 
for ‘‘create.”? (See TROUVERES.) 


Trouble 


1249 


Truces 


. Trouble means a moral whirlwind. 
(Latin, twrbo, a whirlwind ; Italian, tw- 
bare ; French, trowbler.) Disturb is 
from the same root. The idea pervades 
all such words as agitation, commotion, 
vexation, a tossing up and down, etc. 


Trouillogan’s -Advice. Do and 
do not; yes and no. When Pantag’- 
ruel asked the philosopher Trouillogan 
whether Panurge should marry or not, 
the philosopher replied ‘‘ Yes.’? ‘* What 
say you?’’ asked the prince. ‘ What 
you have heard,” answered Trouillogan. 
‘What have I heard,” said Pantagruel. 
‘*What I have spoken,’ rejoined the 
sage. ‘Good,’ said the prince; ‘ but 
tell me plainly, shall Panurge marry or 
let it alone?’ ‘‘ Neither,’ answered 
the oracle. ‘‘ How?” said the prince; 
‘“‘that cannot be.’’ ‘*Then both,’’ said 
Trouillogan. (Rabelais : Gargantua and 
Pantagruel, iii. 35.) 


Trout is the Latin ¢roct-a, from the 
Greek troktés, the greedy fish (tvogo, to 
eat). The trout is very voracious, and 
will devour any kind cf animal food. 

“TRoland] was ... engaged in a keen and ani- 
mated discussion about Lochleven trout and sea 
trout, and river trout, and bull trout, and char 
which never rise to the fly,and par which some 
suppose [to be] infant salmon,and herlings which 
frequent the Nith, and yendisses which are only 
found in the castle loch of Lochmaben.”—Sir W. 
Scott: The Abbot, chap. xxii. 


Trouveres (2 syl.) were the trouba- 
dours of the worth of France, in the 


twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth cen- 
turies. So called from trowver, the Wal- 


loon verb meaning ‘“‘ to invent.’’ (Sze 
TROUBADOURS. ) 
Trovatore (J/) (4 syl.). Manri’co, 


the son of Garzia, brother of the Comte 
di Luna. Verdi’s opera so called is 
taken from the drama of Gargia Gut- 
tierez, which is laid in the fifteenth cen- 
tury. -Trovatore means a troubadour. 


Trows. Dwarfs of Orkney and 
Shetland mythology, similar to the Scan- 
dinavian Trolls. There are land-trows 
and sea-trows. ‘‘ Trow tak’ thee’’ is a 
phrase still used by the island women 
when angry with their children. 


Troxar'tas [bread-eater], Wing of 
the mice and father of Psycar’pax, who 
was drowned, 

“ Fix their council... 
Where great Troxartas crowned in glory 
reigns... 

Psycar’pax’ father, father now nomore!” _ 

Purnell: Battle of the Frogs and Mice, bk. i. 


Troy-Novant (London). This name 
gave rise to the tradition that Brute, a 


79 


Trojan refugee, founded London and 
called it New Troy; but the word is 
British, and compounded of Zri-nou- 
hant (inhabitants of the new town). 
Civitas Trinobantum, the city of the Tri- 
nobantes, which we might render ‘‘ New- 
townsmen.”’ 


“ For noble Britons sprong from Trojans bold, 
And Troy-noyant was built of old Troyes ashes 
cold.” Spenser: Fuérie Queene, iil. 9. 


Troy-town has no connection with 
the Homeric ‘‘ Troy,’’ but means a maze, 
labyrinth, or bower. (Welsh ἐγοῖ, to 
turn ; ¢voed/e, a trodden place [ἢ street], 
whence the archaic trode, a path or 
track ; Anglo-Saxon thraw-an, to twist 
or turn.) There are numerous Troys 
and Troy-towns in Great Britain and 
North America. The upper garden of 
Kensington Palace was called ‘‘ the siege 
of Troy.” 

+ A Troy-town is about equivalent 
to ‘‘Julian’s Bower,’’ mentioned in 
Halliwell’s Archaie Dictionary. 


Troy Weight means ‘“ Londen 
weight.’’? London used to be called 
Troy-novant. (See above.) The general 
notion that the word is from Troyes, a 
town of France, and that the weight was 
brought to Europe from Grand Cairo by 
crusaders, is wholly untenable, as the 
term Troy Weight was used in England 
in the reign of Edward the Confessor. 
Troy weight is old London weight, and 
Avoirdupois the weight brought over by 
the Normans. (See AVOIRDUPOIS.) 


Truce of God. In 1040 the Church 
forbade the barons to make any attack 
on each other between sunset on Wed- 
nesday and sunrise on the following 
Monday, or upon any ecclesiastical fast 
or feast day. It also provided that no 
man was to molest a labourer working in 
the fields, or to lay hands on any imple- 
ment of husbandry, on pain of excom- 
munication, (See PEACE OF GoD.) 


Truces. Juithless and fatal truces. 

The Emperor Antonius Caracalla de- 
stroyed the citizens of Alexandria, at one 
time, and at another cut off the atten- 
dants of Artabanus, King of Persia, 
under colour of marrying his daughter. 

Jacob’s children destroyed the She- 
chemites to avenge the rape of Dinah. 

- Gallienus, the Roman Emperor, put 
to death the military men in Constanti- 
nople. 

Antonius, under colour of friendship, 
enticed Artavasdes of Armenia; then, 
pndiae him in heavy chains, put him to 

eath. 


ΕἸΣ Truchuela 1 


0 Truth 


Truchue’la. A very small trout 
with which Don Quixote was regaled at 
the road-side inn where he was dubbed 
knight. (Cervantes ; Don Quixote, bk. i, 
chap. ii.) 

True Blue—thatis, “Coventry blue,” 
noted for its fast dye. An epithet ap- 
plied to a person otf inflexible honesty 
and fidelity. 


True-lovers’ Knot is the Danish 
trolovelses knort, ‘* a betrothment bond,”’ 
not a compound of ¢rwe and dover. Thus 
in the Icelandic Gospel the phrase, “ἃ 
virgin espoused to a man,”’ is, er trulofad 
var einum manné. 

“ Three times a true-love’s knot I tie secure ; 

Firm be the knot, flrm may his love endure.” 

Gay's Pastorals : The Spell. 
True as Touch. The reference is to 
gold tested by the touchstone (q.v.). 
“Tf thou lovest me too much 
It will not prove as true as touch.” 
Love me Little, Love me Long (1570). 

True Thomas and the Queen of 
Elfiand. An old romance in verse by 
Thomas the Rhymer. 

True Thomas. 'Thomas the Rhymer 
was so called from his prophecies, the 
most noted of which was the prediction 
of the death of Alexander 111, of Scot- 
Jand, made to the Earl of March in the 
Castle of Dunbar the day before it oc- 


curred. It is recorded in the Scoti- 
chron'icon of Fordun. (14380.) (See 
RHYMER.) 

Truepenny. Hamlet says to the 


Ghost, ‘‘ Art thou there, Truepenny ?”’ 
Then to his comrades, ‘‘ You hear this 
fellow in the cellarage?’’ (i. 5). And 
again, ‘‘ Well said, old mole; canst 
work?’’ Truepenny means earth-borer 
or mole (Greek, trupanon, trupao, to bore 
or perforate), an excellent word to apply 
to a ghost ‘* boring through the cellar- 
age’’ to get to the place of purgatory 
before cock-crow. Miners use the word 
for a run of metal or metallic earth, 
which indicates the presence and direc- 
tion of a lode. 


Trulli. Female spirits noted for their 
kindness tomen. (Randle Holins : Aca- 
demy of Armory.) 

Trump. 70 trump up. To devise or 
make up falsely ; to concoct. 


Trump Card. The French carte de 
triomphe (card of triumph), 


Trumpet. 170 trumpet one’s good 
decds. The allusion is to the Pharisaic 
sect called the Almsgivers, who had a 
trumpet sounded before them, ostensibly 


* 


to summon the poor together, but in re- 
ality to publish abroad their abnegation 
and benevolence. 

You sound your own trumpet. The 
allusion is to heralds, who used to an- 
nounce with a flourish of trumpets the 
knights who entered a list, 


Trumpeter. Your trwmpeter is dead 
—1.e. you are obliged to sound your own 
praises because no one will doit for you. 


Trumpets (east of). A Jewish fes- 
tival, held on the first two days of Tisri, 
the beginning of the ecclesiastical year. 


Trundle. A military earthwork 
above Goodwood. ‘The area is about 
two furlongs. It has a double vallum. 
The situations of the porte are still to be 
traced in the east, west, and north. The 
fortifications of the ancient Britons being 
cireular, it is probable that the Trundle 
is British. The fortified encampments 
of the Romans were square ; examples 
may be seen at the Broyle, near Chiches- 
ter, and on Ditching Hill. 


Truss his Points (70). To tie the 
points of hose. The points were the 
cords pointed with metal, like shoe-laces, 
attached to doublets and hose; being 
very numerous, some second person was 
required to ‘‘ truss ’’ them or fasten them 
properly. 

“T hear the gull [Sir Piercie] clamorous for 
someone to truss his points. He will find himself 
fortunate if he lights on anyone here who can do 
him the office of groom of the chamber.”’—Sir W. 
Scott: The Monastery, chap. Xvi. 

Trusts. The combinations called 
rings or corners in the commercial world. 
The chief merchants of an article (say 
sugar, salt, or flour) combine to fix the 
selling price of a given article and thus 
secure enormous profits. These enter- 
prises are technically called ‘‘trusts,”’ 
because each of the merchants is on trust 
not to undersell the others, but to remain 
faithful to the terms agreed on, 


Truth. Pilate said, ‘What is truth 2” 
This was the great question of the 
Platonists. Plato said we could know 
truth if we could sublimate our minds 
to their original purity. _Arcesila’os 
said that man’s understanding is not 
capable of knowing what truth is. Car’- 
neadés maintained that not only our un- 
derstanding could not comprehend it, 
but even our senses are wholly inade- 
quate to help us in the investigation. 
Gorgias the Sophist said, ‘“‘ What is 
right but what we prove to be right? 
and what is truth but what we believe 
to be truth ?”” ἢ 


Truth in a Well 


1251 


Tuck 


Truth in a Well. This expression 
is attributed both to Clean’thés and to 
Democ'’ritos the derider. 


“Naturam accusa, que in profundo yeritatem 
(ut ait Democritus) penitus abstruser it.”""—Cicero: 
Academics, i. 10. 


Tryanon. Daughter of the fairy 
king who lived on the island of Oléron. 
“She was as white as lily in May,” and 
married Sir Launfal, King Arthur’s 
steward, whom she carried off to ‘Oli- 
roun her jolif isle,”’ and, as the romance 
says— 

““ Since saw him in this land no man, 
Ne no more of him tell I n'can 
For soothé without lie.” 
Thomas Chestre: Sir Launfal (sth century). 

Try’gon. A poisonous fish. It is 
said that Tele’gonos, son of Ulysses by 
Circé, coming to Ith’aca to see his father 
was denied admission by the servants ; 
whereupon a quarrel ensued, and his 
father, coming out to see what was the 
matter, was accidentally struck with his 
son’s arrow, pointed with the bone of a 
trygon, anddied.  __ 
“The lord of Ithaca, 
by phe poisonous trygon’s bone, expired.” 

West: Triumphs of the Gout (Luc iam). 

Tsin Dynasty. The fourth Imperial 
Dynasty of China, founded by Tchao- 
siang-wang, prince of Tsin, who con- 
quered the ‘‘ fighting kings” (q¢.v.). He 
built the Wall of China (8.c. 211). 


Tsong Dynasty. The nineteenth 
Imperial Dynasty of China, founded by 
Tchao-quang-yn, the guardian and chief 
minister of Yéng-tee. He was a de- 
scendant of Tchuang-tsong, the Tartar 
general, and on taking the yellow robe 
assumed the name of Taé-tsou (great 
ancestor). This dynasty, which lasted 
300 years, was one of the most famous 
in Chinese annals, (960-1276.) 


Tu Autem. Come to the last clause. 
In the long Latin grace at St. John’s 
College, Cambridge, the last clause used 
to be ‘* Tu autem misere’re mei, Domine. 
Amen.”? It was not unusual, when a 
scholar read slowly, for the senior Fellow 
to whisper ‘ Zw autem ’?—i.e. Skip all 
the rest and give us only the last sen- 
tence. 


Tu Vas Voulu, George Dandin 
(Tis your own fault, George Dandin), 
You brought this upon yourself ; as you 
have made your bed so you must le on 
it. (See DANDIN.) 


Tu Quogue. The tu quogue style of 
arguinent. Personal inivectives; argu- 
ment of personal application ; arguinen- 
tum ad hominem. 


‘We miss_in this work his usual tu quwoque 
sty le.”—Public Opinion. 


Struck 


Tu-ral-lu, the refrain of comic songs, 
is a corruption of the Italian ¢urluru, 
and the French turlwreau or teurelure. 
“‘Loure” is an old French word for a 
bagpipe, and ‘‘toure loure’’ means a 
refrain on the bagpipe. The refrain of 
a French song published in 1697 is— 


“ Toure loure, lourirette,. 
Lironfa, toure lourira.” ὁ ὁ 
Suite du Théatre ΞΕ lll. p. 453. 


Tub. A tale of a tub, A cock-and- 
bull story: a rigmarole, nonsensical ro- 
mance. The Tale of a Tub is a religious 
satire by Dean Switt. 

Throw a tub to the whale. To createa 
diversion in order to avoida real danger ; 
to bamboozle or mislead an enemy. In 
whaling, when a ship is threatened by a 
whole school of whales, it is usual to 
throw a tub into the sea to divert their 
attention, and to make off as fast as 
possible. 

A tubof naked children. Emblematical 
of St. Nicholas, in allusion to two boys 
murdered and placed in a pickling tub 
by a landlord, but raised to life again by 
this saint. (See NIcHOLAS.) 


Tub, Tubbing. Tubs, in rowing 
slang, are gig pairs of college boat clubs, 
who- practice for the term’s races. They 
are pulled on one side when a pair-oar 
boat in uniform makes its appearance. 
Tubbing is taking out pairs under the 
supervision of a coach to train men for 
taking part in the races. 


Tub-woman (4). A drawer of beer 
at a country public-house. 

“The common people had always a tradition 
that the queen’s[Anne] grandmother... had been 
a washerwoman, or,as Cardinal York asserted, a 
tub-woman—that is, a drawer of beer ata country 
pe elonee poner : History of England ; Anne, 
p. 

Tuba [/appiness]. A tree of Para- 
dise, of gigantic proportions, whose 
branches stretch out to those who wish 
to gather their produce; not only all 
luscious fruits, but even the flesh of 
birds already cooked, green garmeuts,and 
even horses ready saddled and bridled. 
From the root of this tree spring the 
rivers of Paradise, flowing with milk 
and honey, wine and water, and from 
the banks of which may be picked up 
inestimable gems. 


Tuck. A longnarrow sword. (Gaelic, 
tuca, Welsh twa, Italian stocco, German 
stock, French estoc.) In Hamlet the 
word is erroneously printed ‘* stuck,’ in 
Malone’s edition. 


“Tf he by chance escape your venomous tuck, 
Our purpose may hold there.” Act iv. 7, 


Tucker 


1952 


- Tunkers ' 


eR , κα -ςοῃτλτο͵.ιι ι ικ τ Ἕδ “  ι͵ΐ͵ῖ͵ τ αοα͵ τ ! λτορ τ τ.“ 


A good tuck in or tuck out. A good 
feed, ΤῸ tuck is to full, a tucker is a 
fuller. Hence, to cram. The fold of a 
dress to allow for growth is called a 
tuck, anda little frill on the top thereof is 
called a tucker. (Anglo-Saxon, tuc-ian.) 

Pll tuck him up. Stab him, do for 


him. Tuck is a small dirk used by 
artillerymen. (See above.) 
Tucker. Food. ‘‘A tuck in,” a 


cram of food. (See above.) 
“No! said Palliser, ‘we've no food.’ ‘ By 


Jove !’ said the other, ‘I'll search creation for 
tucker to-night, Give me your gun.’ "—Watson: 
Tie Web of the Spider, chap. X1i. 


Tuffet (4). A small tuft or clump. 
Strange that this word, so universally 
known, has never been introduced into 
our dictionaries, to the best of my know- 
ledge. 

‘“ Little Miss Muffet 
Sat on a tuffet 
Eating her curds and whey... .” 
Nursery Rhymes. 

Tuft. A nobleman or fellow com- 
moner. So called at Oxford because he 
wears a gold tuft or tassel on his college 
cap. 


Tuft-hunter. A nobleman’s toady ; 
one who tries to curry favour with the 
wealthy and great for the sake of feeding 
on the crumbs which fall from the rich 


man’s table. A University term. (See 
above.) 
Tug. A name by which collegers are 


known at Eton. Either from tog (the 
gown worn in distinction to Oppidans), 
or from ‘‘ tough mutton.” 
“A name in college handed down 
From mutton tough or ancient gown.” 
The World, Fe)ruary 17, 1893 (p. 31). 

Tug of War (716), a rural sport, in 
which a number of men or boys, divided 
into two bands, lay hold of a strong 
rope and pull against each other till one 
side has tugged the other over the divid- 
ing line. 

Tuileries (Paris) [tile-kilns]. The 
palace was on the site of some old tile- 
kilns. _ (Sze SABLONNIERE. ) 


Tulean Bishops. Certain Scotch 
bishops appointed by James I., with the 
distinct understanding that they were to 
hand over a fixed portion of the revenue 
to the patron. A tu/ean is a stuffed calf- 
skin, placed under a cow that withholds 
her milk. The cow, thinking the “ tul- 
can’’ to be her calf, readily yields her 
milk to the milk-pail. ~ 


Tulip. The turban plant; Persian, 
thoulyb’ (thoulyban, a turban), by which 
name the flower is called in Persia. 


My tulip. A term of endearment to 
animals, as ‘‘Gee up, my tulip!” or 
“‘Kim up, my tulip!’’ Perhaps a pun 
suggested by the word too/. A donkey 
is a costermonger’s tool. 


Tulip Mania. A reckless mania 
for the purchase of tulip-bulbs in the 
seventeenth century. Beckmann says it 
rose to its greatest height in the years 
1634-1637, A root of the species called 
Viceroy sold for £250; Semper Augus- 
tus, more than double that sum. The 
tulips were grown in Holland, but the 
mania which spread over Europe was a 
mere stock-jobbing speculation. 


Tumbledown Dick. Anything that 
will not stand firmly. Dick is Richard, 
the Protector’s son, who was but a 
tottering wall at best. 


Tun. Any vessel, even a goblet or 
cup. (Anglo-Saxon ¢unne.) 

“Tun, sucha cupas jugglers use to show divers 
tricks by."—Minshew: Spanish Dictionary. 

Tunding. A thrashing with ashen 
sticks given to a school-fellow by one of 
the monitors or ‘‘prefects’’? of Win- 
chester school, for breach of discipline. 
(Latin tundo, to beat or bruise.) 


Tune the Old Cow Died of (7/ic). 
Advice instead of relief ; remonstrance 
instead of help. As St. James says 
(ii. 15, 16), ‘“‘If a brother or sister be 
naked, and destitute of daily food, and 
one of you say to them, Depart in 
peace, be ye warmed and filled; not- 
withstanding ye give them not those 
things which are needful to the body; 
what doth it profit?’’? Your words are 
the tune the old cow died of. The 
reference is to the well-known song— 
“There was an old man, and he had an old cow, 

But he had no fodder to give her, 

So he took up his fiddle and played her the 

i Cerniine good cow, consider, 

This isn’t the time for the grass to grow. 

Consider, good cow, consider.’ ~ 

Tuneful Nine. The nine Muses: 
Calliopé (epic poetry), Clio (history), 
Era’to (elegy and lyric poetry), Euterpe 
(music), Melpom’ené (tragedy), Poly- 


hym’nia (sacred song), _Terpsic’hore 
(dancing), Thali’a (comedy), Ura'nia 
(astronomy). 


Tuning Goose. The entertainment 
given in Yorkshire when the corn at 
harvest was all safely stacked. 

Tunisian. The adjective form of 
Tunis. 

Tun’kers. A politico-religious sect 
of Ohio, ‘They came from a small 


Turcaret 12 


3 Turpin 


German village on the Eder. They be- 
lieve all will be saved; are Quakers in 
plainness of dress and speech ; and will 
neither fight, nor go to law. Both sexes 
are equally eligible for any office. Celi- 
bacy is the highest honour, but not 
imperative. They are also called Tum- 
blers, and incorrectly Dunkers. Tunker 
means ‘‘ to dip a morsel into gravy,’ ‘‘a 
sop into wine,’’ and as they are Baptists 
this term has been given them ; but they 
call themselves ‘‘the harmless people.’’ 
(W. Hepworth Dixon: New America, 
ii. 18.) 

Tur’caret. One who has become 
rich by hook or by crook, and, having 
nothing else to display, makes a great 
display of his wealth. A chevalier in 
Le Sage’s comedy of the same name. 


Tureen’. A deep pan for holding 
soup. (French, ἔθ)" 716, a pan made of 
terre, earth.) 

Turf (Zhe). The racecourse; the 
profession of horse-racing, which is done 
on turf or grass. One who lives by the 
turf, or whose means of living is derived 
from running horses or betting on races. 

“All men are equal on the turf and under it.”— 
Lord Georye Bentinck, 

Turk. Slave, villain. A term of re- 
proach used by the Greeks of Constanti- 
nople, 

‘ou young Turk, a playful reprimand 
to a young mischievous child. 


Turk Gregory. Gregory VII., called 
Hildebrand, a furious Churchman, who 
surmounted every obstacle to deprive 
the emperor of his right of investi- 
ture of bishops. He was exceedingly 
disliked by the early reformers. 

“Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms 


as I have done this day.”—1 Henry IV., v.3. 


Turkey. The bird with a red wattle. 
A native of America, at one time sup- 
posed to have come from Turkey, 


Turkish Spy was written by John 
Paul Mara’na, an Italian, who had been 
imprisoned for conspiracy. After his 
release he retired to Mon’aco, where he 
wrote the History of the Plot. Subse- 
quently he removed to Paris, and pro- 

uced his Turkish Spy, in which he 
gives the history of the last age. 


Turlupin, a punster or farceur, with 
turlupinade, and the verb turlupiner. 
It was usual in the 17th century for 
play-writers in Italy and France to 
change their names. Thus Le Grand 
called himself Belleville in tragedy, and 
Turlupin in farce; Hugues Guéret took 


the name of Fléchelles; and Jean Bap- 
tiste Poquelin called himself Moliére, 
but there was a Moliére before him who 
wrote plays. 


Turmeric, like berberry, being yellow, 
was supposed to cure the yellow jaun- 
dice. According to the doctrine of 
signatures, Nature labels every plant 
with a mark to show what it is good for. 
Red plants are good for fever, white 
ones for rigor. Hence the red rose 
is supposed to cure hemorrhage. (Sve 
THISTLES.) 


Turnecoat. As the dominions of the 
duke of Saxony were bounded in part 
by France, one of the early dukes hit 
upon the device of a coat b/ue one side, 
and white the other. When he wished 
to be thought in the French interest he 
wore the white outside; otherwise the 
outside colour was blue. Whence a 
Saxon was nicknamed Emmanuel Turn- 
coat. (Scots’ Magazine, October, 1747.) 

Without going to history, we have a 
very palpable etymon in the French 
towrne-cote (turn-side), (See Coat.) 

Turning the Tables. (See wider 
TABLES.) 


Turnip-Garden (7c). So called by 
the Jacobites. George IT. was called 
the ‘‘Turnip-hougher’”’ [hoer], and his 
hiring of troops was spoken of as “ sell- 
ing the turnips,” or ‘‘ trying to sell his 
roots.’”? Hanover at the time was emi- 
nently a pastoral country. 


Turnip Townsend. The brother- 
in-law of Sir Robert Walpole, who, 
after his retirement from office in 1731, 
devoted himself to the improvement of 
agriculture. 


Turnspit Dog. One who has all 
the work but none of the profit; he 
turns the spit but eats not of the roast. 
The allusion is to the dog used formerly 
to turn the spit in roasting. Topsel says, 
‘‘They go into a wheel, which they turn 
round about with the weight of. their 
bodies, so dilligently Ξ that 
no drudge . . . can do the feate 
more cunningly,’’ (1697.) 


Turpin, Archbishop of Rheims. A 
mythological contemporary of Charle- 
magne. His chronicle is supposed to 
be written at Vienne, in Dauphiny, 
whence it is addressed to Leoprandus, 
Dean of Aquisgranensis(Aix-la-Chapelle), 
It was not really written till the end of 
the eleventh century, and the probable 
author was a canon of Barcelo’na. 


Turtle Doves 12 


4 Twickenham 


The romance turns on the expedition 
of Charlemagne to Spain in 777, to 
defend one of his allies from the ag- 
gressions of some neighbouring prince. 
Having conquered Navarre and Aragon, 
he returned to France. The chronicle 
says he invested Pampeluna for three 
months without being able to take it; 
he then tried what prayer could do, and 
the walls fell down of their own accord, 
like those of Jericho. Those Saracens 
who consented to become Christians 
were spared; the rest were put to the 
sword, Charlemagne then visited the 
sarcophagus of James, and Turpin bap- 
tised most of the neighbourhood. The 
king crossed the Pyrenees, but the rear 
commanded by Roland was attacked by 
50,000 Saracens, and none escaped. 


Turtle Doves. Rhyming slang for 
a pair of gloves. (See CHIVY.) 

Tussle. <A struggle, a skirmish. A 
corruption of tousle (German, zausen, to 
pull); hence a dog is named Towser 
(pull ’em down). In the Winter's 
Tale (iv. 4.), Autol’ycus says to the 
Shepherd, “I ¢oze from thee thy busi- 
ness’’ (pnp or draw out of thee). In 
Measure for Measure, Escalus says to 
the Duke, ‘‘ We'll douze thee joint by 
JOE  ν1} 


Tut. A word used in Lincolnshire 
for a phantom, as the Spittal Hilti Tut. 
Tom Tut will get you is a threat to 
frighten children, T'wt-gotten is panic- 
struck. Our tush is derived from the 
word tut. 


Tutivillus. The demon who collects 
all the words skipped over or mutilated 
by priests in the performance of the 
services. These literary scraps or shreds 
he deposits in that pit which is said to 
be paved with ‘‘ good intentions’’ never 
brought to effect. (Piers Plowman, 
p. 547; Townley Mysteries, pp. 310, 
319; etc.) 


Twa Dogs of Robert Burns, perhaps 
suggested by the Spanish Colloguio de 
Dos Pervos, by Cervantes. 


Twangdillo, the fiddler, lost one leg 
and one eye by a stroke of lightning on 
the banks of the Ister. 

“ Yet still the merry bard without regret 

Bears his own ills, and with his sounding shell 

And comic phiz relieves his drooping friends. 

He tickles every string, to every note 

He bends his pliant neck, his single eye 

Twinkles with joy, hisactive stump beats time.” 

Somerville: Hobbinol, 


Tweeds. Checked cloths for trousers, 
ete. The origin of this name is sup- 
posed to have been a blunder for 


““tweels,’’? somewhat blotted and badly 
written in 1829. The Scotch manu- 
facturer sent a consignment of these 
goods to James Locke, of London, who 
misread the word, and as they were 
made on the banks of the Tweed, the 
name was appropriated and accordingly 
adopted. 

“ἢ However, the Anglo-Saxon twaed (duplex), 
which gave rise to tweddlin (cloth that is tweeled), 
and twedden sheets, is more likely to have given 
rise to the word. In fact, tweels and tiweddles 


both mean cloth in which the woof crosses the 
warp vertically. 
Tweedledum and Tweedledee, 
“ Some say compared to Bononcini 

That mynheer Handel's but a ninny ; 

Others aver that he to Handel 

Is scarcely fit to hold a candle, 

Strange all this difference should he 

'Twixt Tweedledum and Tweediedee.” 

J, Byrom, 

This refers to the feud between the Bon- 
oncinists and Handelists. The Duke of 
Marlborough and most of the nobility 
took Bononcini by the hand; but the 
Prince of Wales, with Pope and Ar- 
buthnot, was for Handel, (See GLUCK- 
ISTS.) 


Twelfth (772), the 12th of August. 
The first day of grouse-shooting. 


Twelfth Cake. The drawing for 
king and queen is a relic of the Roman 
Saturna/lia. At the close of this festival 
the Roman children drew lots with beans 
to see who would be king. Twelfth Day 
is twelve days after Christmas, or the 
Epiphany. 

Twelfth Night (Shakespeare). The 
serious plot is taken from Belleforest’s 
Histoires Tragiques. The comic parts 
are of Shakespeare’s own invention. 
(See BEFANA.) 

Twelve. Each English archer carries 
twelve Scotchmen under his girdle. This 
was @ common saying at one time, be- 
cause the English were unerring archers, 
and each archer carried in his belt twelve 
arrows (Sir Walter Scott: Tales of a 
Grandfather, Vii.). 

The Twelve. All the prelates of the 
Roman Catholic Church. Of course the 
Twelve Apostles. 


“The Pope identifies himself with the ‘Master, 
and uddresses those 700 prelates as the ‘ Twelve.” 
—The Times, December 11, 1869. 

Twelve Tables. The earliest code 
of Roman law, compiled by the Decem- 
viri, and cut on twelve bronze tables or 
tablets (Livy, iii. 57 ; Diodorus, xii. 56.) 


Twickenham. Zhe Bard of Twick- 


enham. Alexander Pope, who lived 
there for thirty years. (1688-1744.) 


Twig 1255 


Two Strings to his Bow 


Twig. J twig you; do you twig my 
meaning 2 1 catch your meaning; I un- 
derstand. (Irish, twigim, I notice.) 


Twinkling. (See BED-POST.) 


Twins. One of the signs of the con- 
stellation (May 21st to June 2151). 


“When now no more the alternate twins are fired, 
Short is the doubtful empire of the night.” 


Thomson: Summer. 
Twist (Oliver). A boy born in a 
workhouse, starved and ill-treated ; but 
always gentle, amiable, and pure- 
minded, Dickens’s novel so called. 


Twisting the Lion’s Tail. Sceing 
how far the ‘‘ Britishers”’ will bear pro- 
vocation. ‘‘To give the lion’s tail 
another twist’? is to tax the British for- 
bearance a little further. No doubt the 
kingdom is averse to war with civilised 
nations, and will put up with a deal 
rather than apply to the arbitration of 
arms. Even victory may be bought too 
dearly. Such provocation may provoke 
a growl, but there will the matter end. 


Twitcher. Jemmy Twitcher. <A 
name given to John, Lord Sandwich 
(1718-1792), noted for his /iaison with 
Miss Ray, who was shot by the Rev. 
‘Captain’? Hackman out of jealousy. 
His lordship’s shambling gait is memo- 
rialised in the Heroic Epistle. 

“See Jemmy Twitcher shambles—stop, stop 
thief!” 


Twitten. A narrow alley. 


Two. The evil principle of Pytha- 
goras. Accordingly the second day of 
the second month of the year was sacred 
to Pluto, and was esteemed unlucky. 

Two an unlucky number in our dynas- 
ties. Witness Ethelred II. the Unready, 
forced to abdicate ; Harold IL., slain at 
Hastings; William 11., shot in New 
Forest ; Henry II., who had to fight for 
his crown, ete. ; Edward II., murdered 
at Berkeley Castle; Richard II., de- 
posed; Charles II., driven into exile; 
James II., forced to abdicate; George 
11. was worsted at Fontenoy and Law- 
feld, his reign was troubled by civil war, 
and disgraced by General Braddock and 
Admiral Byng. 

It does not seem much more lucky 
abroad: Charles II, of France, after a 
most unhappy reign, died of poison; 
Charles 11. of Navarre was called Zhe 
Bad; Charles 11. of Spain ended his 
dynasty, and left his kingdom a wreck; 
Charles 11. of Anjou (le Boitewx) passed 
almost the whole of his life in captivity ; 
Charles 11. of Savoy reigned only nine 
months, and died at the age of eight, 


Frangois II. of France was peculiarly 
unhappy, and after reigning less than 
two years, sickened and died; Napoleon 
II. never reigned at all, and Napoleon 
111., really the second emperor, was a 
most disastrous prince; Franz II. of 
Germany lost all his Rhine possessions, 
and in 1806 had to renounce his title of 
emperor. 

Friedrich II., Emperor of Germany, 
was first anathematised, then excom- 
municated, then dethroned, and lastly 
poisoned. 

Jean II. of France, being conquered 
at Poitiers, was brought captive to Eng- 
land by the Black Prince; Juan 11. of 
Aragon had to contend for his crown 
with his own son Carlos. 

It was Felipe 11]. of Spaim who sent 
against England the ‘‘ Invincible Ar- 
mada’’; it was Francesco II. of the 
Two Sicilies who was driven from his 
throne by Garibaldi; it was Romulus 11. 
in whom terminated the empire of the 
West; Peter 11. of Russia died at the 
age of fifteen, and he was a disgrace to 
the name of Menschikoff ; Pietro II. de 
Medicis was forced to abdicate, and died 
of shipwreck ; James II. of Scotland was 
shot by a cannon at the siege of Rox- 
burgh; James II. of Majorca, after 
losing his dominions, was murdered. 
Alexander 11. of Scotland had his king- 
dom laid under an interdict ; Alexander 
II., the Pope, had to contend against 
Honorius 11., the anti-pope ; Alexis II., 
Emperor of the East, was placed under 
the ward of his father and mother, who 
so disgusted the nation by their cruelty 
that the boy was first dethroned and 
then strangled; Andronicus 11., Em- 
peror of Greece, was dethroned ; Henri 
11. of France made the disastrous peace 
called La Paix Malheureuse, and was 
killed by Montgomery in a tournament ; 
etc. etc. (See JANE and JOHN.) 


Two Eyes of Greece. Athens and 
Sparta. 


Two Fridays. When two Fridays 
come together. Never (q.v.). 


Two Gentlemen of Vero/na. The 
story of Proteus and Julia was bor- 
‘rowed from the pastoral romance of 
Diana, by George of Montemayor, a 
Spaniard, translated into English by 
Bartholomew Younge in 1598, ‘The love 
adventure of Julia resembles that of 
Viola, in Twelfth Night. 


Two Strings to his Bow (/e has). 
He is provided against contingencies ; 
| if one business or adventure should fail, 


Two of a Trade 


1256 


Typhon 


he has another in reserve ; two sweet- 
hearts; two devices, etc. 

Latin: ‘*Duabus anchoris nititur ἢ 
(i.e. “He is doubly moored’’), or 
“Ὁ Duabus anchoris sis fultus.”’ 

Greek : ‘Em Svow oopew.” 

French : 41] a deux cordes ason are.” 

Italian; “ Navigar per piu venti.” 


Two of a Trade never agree. The 
French say, Lin contre fin west bon a 
Suire doublure—i.e. Two materials of the 
same nature never unite well together. 

“ Ten a beggar sees with woe 
A beggar to the house-door go.” 

Greek: “Καὶ ptochos ptocho phth- 

onei.’’ (Hesiod.) 


Latin ; ‘* Etiam mendicus mendico 
invidit.’’ ‘ Figtilus figulo invidet, faber 


fabro”’ (‘‘ Potter envies potter, and 
smith smith ᾽ἢ). 


Twopenny Dam (4). A dim was 
an Indian coin and weight. Originally 
a gold mohur contained sixteen dams ; 
a punchee was = the quarter of a dam, 
and a barahgini = half a punchee, 
Putting this in a tabular form, it would 
be thus :— 

2 barahganis = 1 punchee, 

4 punchees = 1 dam (worth in its 
diminished value 
about 2 pence). 

16 dams = 1 gold mohur, 


Tybalt. A, Capulet; ἃ ‘‘fiery”’ 
young noble. (Shakespeare : Romeo and 
Juliet.) 


It is the name given to the cat in the 
story of Reynard the Fox. Hence Mer- 
cutio says, ‘‘ Tybalt, you rat-catcher, 
will you walk?” (iii. 1); and again, 
when Tybalt asks, ‘‘ What wouldst thou 
have with me?’ Mercutio answers, 
““Good king of cats! nothing but one 
of your nine lives’” (iii. 1). 


Tyburn is Twa-burne, the ‘two 
rivulets;’’ so called because two small 
rivers met in this locality. 

Tyburn’s triple tree. A gallows, which 
consists of two uprights and a beam 
resting on them. Previous to 1783 
Tyburn was the chief place of execu- 
tion in London, and a gallows was 
permanently erected there. In the reign 
of Henry VIII. the average number of 
persons executed annually in England 
was 2,000. The present number is under 
twelve. 

Kings of Tyburn, Public executioners, 
(See HANGMEN. ) 


Tyburn Ticket. Under a statute 
of William III. prosecutors who had 


secured a capital conviction against a 
criminal were exempted from all parish 
and ward offices within the parish in 
which the felony had been committed, 
Such persons obtained a Tyburn Ticket, 
which was duly enrolled and might be 
sold. The Stamford Mercury (March 
27th, 1818) announces the sale of one of 
these tickets for £280. The Act was 
repealed by 58 Geo. III., ο. 70. 


Tybur'nia (London). Portman and 
Grosvenor Squares district, described by 
Thackeray as ‘‘the elegant, the pros- 
perous, the polite Tyburnia, the most 
respectable district of the habitable 
globe.”’ 


T’Year—i.e. to-year; as, to-day, to- 
night, to-morrow. (Anglo-Saxon, to-dege, 
to-geare.) 

Tyke. (Sce TIKE.) 


Tyler Insurrection. Jat Tyler's 
insurrection. An insurrection headed 
by Wat Tyler and Jack Straw, in con- 
sequence of a poll-tax of three groats 
to defray the expenses of a war with 
France. (1381.) 


Tyl'wyth Teg [the Fair Fanily], 
A sort of Kobold family, but not of 
diminutive size. They lived in the lake 
near Brecknock. (Davies: Mythology, 
ete., of the British Druids.) 

Type. Pica (large type), litera pica'ta, 
the great black letter at the beginning 
of some new order in the liturgy. 

Brevier’ (small type), used in printing 
the breviary. 

Primer, now called ‘‘long primer,”’ 
(small type), used in printing small 
prayer-books called primers. 

A fount of types. A complete assorte 
ment contains 1,117,000 pieces of type. 


a .... 8,500 | ἢ ..... 6.400 {0 «--- 8,000] V---- 1.200 
b ..+. 1,600 ΟΣ .--- 8000 [Ρ ---. 1.100} W---- 2,000 
C eee 3,000 j ...«. 400 [4 .... 5001] Χ.... 40 
ἀπ 4400 ἐ: 800} r---. 6,200| y ---- 2,000 
@ ...-12,000 1 .... 4,000] S «++. 8,000) Z---- 200 
f .... 2500 m.--. 3,000] 6 ---- 9,000] , 4,500 ; 800 
Β' ..-. 1 ἢ -.... 8,000 1κὶ.--. 3.400}. 2,000 : 600 


Typhe'us. A giant with a hundred 
heads, fearful eyes, and a most terrible 
voice. He was the father of the Harpies. 
Zeus [Zuce] killed him with a thunder- 
bolt, and he lies buried under Mount 
Etna, (Hesiod: Theogony.) (See GIANnts.) 


Ty'phon. Son of Typhe'us, the giant 
with a hundred heads. He was so tall 
that he touched the skies with his head. 
His offspring were Gorgon, Geryon, 
Cerbérus, and the hydra ot Lerne. Like 
his father, he lies buried under Etna. 
(Homer; Hymns.) (See Giants.) 


Typhoon 


1257 


Vlania 


Typhoon’. The evil genius of Egyp- 
tian mythology ; also a furious whirling 
wind in the Chinese seas. (Typhoon or 
typhon, the whirling wind, is really fhe 
Chinese ?’ai-fun [the great wind].) 

“ Beneath the radiant line that girts the globe, 
The Seon Ty’phon, whirled from point to 
poin 
τ π πε της all the rage of all the sky, 
And dire Ecneph’ia, reign.” 
Thomson: Summer. 

Tyr. Son of Odin, and _ younger 
brother of Thor. The wolf Fenrir bit 
off his hand. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Tyrant did not originally mean a 
despot, but an absolute prince, and es- 
pecially one who made himself absolute 
in a free state. Napoleon III. would 
have been so called by the ancient 
Greeks. Many of the Greek tyrants 
were pattern rulers, as Pisis’tratos and 
Pericles, of Athens; Per’iander, of 
Corinth ; Dionysios the Younger, Gelon, 
and his brother Hiero, of Syracuse ; 
Polyc’ratés, of Samos; Phi'dion, of 
Argos, etc. ete. (Greek, tewrannos, an 
absolute king, like the Czar of Russia. ) 

Tyrant of the Chersonese, Milti’‘adés 
was so called, and yet was he, as Byron 
says, ‘ Freedom’s best and bravest 
friend.”? (See TurrtTy TYRANTS.) 

A tyrant’s vein. A ranting, bullying 
manner. In the old moralities the 
tyrants were made to rant, and the 
loudness of their rant was proportionate 
to the villainy of their dispositions. 
Hence to out-Herod Herod is to rant 
more loudly than Herod; to o’erdo 
Termagant is to rant more loudly than 
Termagant. (See PILATE, VOICE.) 


Tyre, in Dryden’s satire of Absalom 
and Achitophel, means Holland; Egypt 
means France. 


“JT mourn, my countrymen, your lost estate . 
Now all Your liberties a spoil are made, 
Egypt and Tyrus intercept your trade.” 

Ρ 


‘art i. 700-707. 


Tyrtzeus. The Spanish Tyrteus. 
Manuel José Quinta’na, whose odes 
stimulated the Spaniar ds to vindicate 
their liberty at the outbreak of the War 
of Independence. (1772-1857.) 


U 


U.S. The United States of North 


America. 


Ube’da. Orbaneia, painter of Ubeda, 
sometimes painted a cock so prepos- 
terously designed that he was obliged to 
write under it, ‘* This is a cock.’? (Cer- 
vantes : Don Quixote, pt. ii, bk, i, 3.) 


Udal Tenure. The same as “allo- 
dial tenure,’ the opposite of ‘‘ feudal 
tenure.’’ Feudal tenure is the holding 
of a tenement of land under a feudal 
lord. Udal tenure is a sort of freehold, 
held by the right of long possession. 
(Icelandic, othal, allodial.) 


Ugly means hag-like. Mr. Dyer de- 
rives it from ouph-lic, like an ough or 
goblin. The Welsh hag7, ugly, would 
rather point to hag-lic, like a hag ; but 
we need only go to the Old English’ verb 
ugge, to feel an abhorrence of, to stand 
in fear of. (Icelandic, ΩΣ ugg’, 
horrcr.) 

“ For tha paynes are so felle and harde . 
That re may ugge bothe yhowng and 
a Hampole, MS. Bowes, p. 189. 
Ugly. (Sce PrerRE du Coignet.) 


Ugly as Sin. 


“Sin isa creature of such hideous mien 
That to be hated needs but to be seen.” 
Pope. 


Ugoli'no, Count of Pisa, deserted his 
party the Ghibellines, and with the hope 
of usurping supreme power in Pisa 
formed an alliance with Giovanni Vis- 
conti, the head of the Guelphic party, 
who promised to supply him secretly 
with soldiers from Sardinia. The plot 
was found out, and both were banished. 
Giovanni died, but the latter joined the 
Florentines, and forced the Pisans to 
restore his territories. In 1284 Genoa 
made war against Pisa, and Count 
Ugolino treacherously deserted the Pi- 
sans, causing their total overthrow. 
At length a conspiracy was formed 
against him, and in 1288 he was cast 
with his two sons and two grandsons 
into the tower of Gualandi, where they 
were all starved to death. Dante, in 
his Inferno, has given the sad tale an 
undying interest. 

N.B. Count Ugolino was one of the 
noble family of Gheradesca, and should 
be styled Ugolino Count of Gheradesca. 


Uhlan (German), A_ horse-soldier 
chiefly employed in reconnoitering, skir- 
mishing, and outpost duty. 

Uka’se (2 syl.). A Russian term for 
an edict either proceeding from the 
senate or direct from the emperor. 
(Russian, waza, an edict.) 


Ul-Erin. ‘‘The Guide of Ireland.’’ 


A star supposed to be the guardian of 
that island. (Ossian: Temora, iv.) 


Ula/nia, Queen of Perdu'ta or Islanda, 
sent a golden shield to Charlemagne, 
which he was to give to his bravest 


Ulema 12: 


8 Ulysses 


paladin. Whoever could win the shield 
from this paladin was to claim the hand 
of Ulania in marriage. (Orlando Furi- 
oso, bk, xv.) 


Ule’ma. In Turkey, either a member 
of the college or the college itself, The 
Ulema consists of the imaums, muftis, 
and cadis (ministers of religion, doctors 
of law, and administrators of justice). 
“‘Ulema’’ is the plural of wlim, a wise 
man, 

“The Ulema is notan ecclesiastical body, except 
so far as law in Mahometan countries is based on 
the Koran.’’—Creasy : Oltoman Turks, vi. 105. 

Uller. The god of archery and the 
chase. No one could outstrip him in his 
snow-shoes. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Uliin. Fingal’s aged bard. (Ossian.) 

Lord Ullin’s Daughter. A ballad by 
Campbell. She eloped with the chief of 
Ulva’s Isle, and, being pursued, induced 
a boatman to row them over Lochgyle 
during a storm. The boat was over- 
whelmed just as Lord Ullin and his 
retinue reached the lake. In an agony 
of distress, he now promised to forgive 
the fugitives, but it was too late: ‘ the 
waters wild rolled o’er his child, and he 
was left lamenting.’’ 


Ulric. Son of Count Siegendorf. He 
rescues Stral’enheim from the Oder, but, 
being informed by his father that the 
man he had saved is the enemy of their 
house, he murders him. (Byron: Werner.) 

St. Ulric. Much honoured by fisher- 
men. He died 973 on ashes strewed in 
the form of a cross upon the floor, 

Ulster. A long loose overcoat, worn 
by males and females, and originally 
made of frieze cloth in Ulster. 

Ulster. The Ted Hand of Ulster, 
(See under Hann, The open red hand.) 

Ulster Badge. A sinister hand, 
erect, open, and couped at the wrist 
(gules), sometimes borne in a canton, 


and sometimes on the escutcheon. (Sve 
under HAND as above.) 
Ulster King of Arms. Chief 


heraldic officer of Ireland. 

Edward VI. in 1552, 
Ultima Thule. (See THULE.) 
Ulitima’tum (Latin). A final pro- 

posal, which, if not accepted, will be 

followed by hostile proceedings, 

_ UVtimum Vale (Latin), A finish- 

ing stroke, a final coup, 


“ Atropos, cutting off the thread of his life, gave 
an ultimum vale to my good fortune.’—Lhe Seven 
Champions of Christendom, iii, 4, 


Created by 


Ul'timus Romanorum. So Horace 
Walpole was preposterously called. 
(1717-1797.) (See Last oF THE RoMANs,) 

Carlyle so called Dr. Johnson, but 
he might, with greater propriety, be 
termed ‘‘ the last of the Catos.’’ (1709- 
1784.) 

Pope called Congreve ‘‘Ultimus 
Romanorum,”’ (1670-1729.) (See Lasr 
OF THE RoMANS.) 


Ultra Vires. Beyond their legiti- 
mate powers. Said of a company when 
exceeding the licence given to it by Act 
of Parlhament. Thus if a company, 
which had obtained an Act of Parlia- 
ment to construct a railway from 
London to Nottingham were to carry its 
rails to York, it would be acting «tra 
vires, If the Bank of England were to 
set up a mint on their premises, it would 
be acting wltra vires, 

Ultramontane Party. The ultra- 
Popish party in the Church of Rome. 
Ultramontane opinions or tendencies are 
those which favour the high ‘‘ Catholic”’ 
party. Ultramontane (‘‘ beyond the 
Alps”) means Italy or the Papal States. 
The term was first used by the French, 
to distinguish those who look upon the 
Pope as the fountain of all power in 
the Church, in contradistinction to the 
Gallican school, which maintains the 
right of self-government by national 
churches. (See 'TRAMONTANE, ) 


Ulys’ses (3 syl.), King of Ith’aca, a 
small rocky island of Greece. He is 
represented in Homer’s J/iad as full 
of artifices, and, according to Virgil, hit 
upon the device of the wooden horse, by 
which Troy was ultimately taken. (The 
word means The Angry or Wrathful.) 

After the fall of Troy,- Ulysses was 
driven about by tempests for ten years 
before he reached home, and his adven- 
tures form the subject of Homer’s other 
epic, called the Odyssey. 

Ulysses. When Palaine’des summoned 
Ulysses to the Trojan war, he found him 
in a field ploughing with a team of 
strange animals, and sowing salt instead 
of barley. This he did to feign in- 
sanity, that he might be excused from 
the expedition. The incident is em- 
ployed to show what meagre shifts are 
sometimes resorted to to shuffle out of 
plain duties. 


Ulysses (The). 
grave of Brandenburg. 
called ‘‘ The Achilles” (q.v.). 
1486.) ; 

The Ulysses of the Highlands. Sir 


Albert III., Mar- 
He was also 
(1414- 


- Ulysses’ Bow 


Evan Cameron, lord of Lochiel, sur- 
named ‘‘The Black.’* (Died 1719.) 
His son Donald was called ‘‘ The Gentle 
Lochiel.”’ 


Ulysses’ Bow. Only Ulysses could 
draw his own bow, and he could shoot 
an arrow through twelve rings. By 
this sign Penel’opé recognised her hus- 
band after an absence of twenty years. 

Ulysses’ bow was prophetic. It be- 
longed at one time to Eu’rytus of 
Qchal'ia, 

“This how of mine sang to me of present war 
... ‘IT bave heard but once of sucha weapon... 
the bow of Odysseus,’ said the queen.”—J/, Rider 
Haggard: The World's Desire, bk. ii. chap. i. 

Uma, consort of Siva, famous for her 
defeat of the army of Chanda and 
Munda, two demons. She is represented 
as holding the head of Chanda in one of 
her four hands, and trampling on Munda. 
The heads of the army, strung into a 
necklace, adorn her body, and a girdle 
of the same surrounds her waist. 


Umber. The paint so called was first 
made in Umbria, Italy. 


Umble-pie. A pie made of umbles— 
i.e. the liver, kidneys, ete., of a deer. 
These ‘‘ refuse’? were the perquisites of 
the keeper, and umble-pie was a dish for 
servants and inferiors, 


“The keeper hath the skin, head, umbles, chine, 
and shoulders.”—Holinshed : Chronicle, i. 204. 


Umbra. Obsequious Umbra, in Garth’s 
Dispensary, is Dr. Gould. 


Umbrage. 170 take umbrage. To 
take offence. Umbrage means shade 
(Latin, wnbra), a gloomy view. 


Umbrella. Common in JLoxdon in 
1710. First used in Edinburgh by Dr. 
Spens. First used in Glasgow in 1780. 
Mentioned by Drayton in his J/uses 
Eliziun (1630); but Drayton evidently 
refers to a sort of fan. Quarles’s Hin- 
blems (1635) also uses the word to signify 
the Deity hidden in the manhood of 
Christ. ‘‘ Nature is made th’ umbrella 
of the Deity” (bk. iv. emblem 14). 
Drayton’s lines are: 

“ And like umbrellas, with their feathers, 

Shield you in all sorts of weathers.” 


The Graphic tells us, “An umbrella is now 
being made in London for an African potentate 
which, when unfurled, will cover a space sufti- 
cient for twelve persons. The stickis... fifteen 
feet long.”’—March 1sth, 1894, p. 270. 


The Tatler, in No, 238 (October 17th, 
1710), says: 
“The young gentlemen belonging to the Custom 


House... borrowed the umbrella from Wilk’s 
coffee-Louse,” 


1259 


Una 


So that umbrellas were kept on hire at 
that date. 


“ Jonas Hanway (born 1712) used an 
umbrella in London to keep off the rain, 
and created a disturbance among the 
sedan porters and public coachmen. So 
that probably umbrellas were not com- 
monly used in the streets at the time. 
“The tucked-up semstress walks with hasty 

strides, 

While streams ran down her oiled umbrella’s 

sides.” Swift: A City Shower (1710), 
“ Or underneath th* umbrella’s oily shed 

Safe thro’ the wet on clinking pattens tread.” 

Gay: Trivia, bk. i. (1711). 

Umbrella, as, wnder Gladstone's wn- 
brella, means dominion, regimen, influ- 
ence. The allusion is to the umbrella 
which, as an emblem of sovereignty, is 
carried over the Sultan of Morocco. In 
Travels of Ali Bey (Lenny Magazine, 
December, 1835, vol. iv. 480), we are 
told, ‘‘The retinue of the sultan was 
composed of a troop of from fifteen to 
twenty men on horseback. About 100 
steps behind them came the sultan, 
mounted on a mule, with an officer 
bearing his umbrella, who rode beside 
him on a mule... Nobody but the 
sultan himself [not even] his sons and 
brothers, dares to make use of it.” 

“As a direct competitor for the throne—or, 
strictly speaking, for the shereefian umbrella—he 
(Muley Abbas] could scarcely hope to escape.”’— 
Nineteenth Century, August, 1892, p. 314. 

*: In 1874 the sacred umbrella of King 
Koffee Kalcalli, of the Ashantees, was 
captured, It was placed in the South 
Kensington Museum. 


U'na (Truth, so called because truth 
is one). She starts with St. George on 
his adventure, and being driven by a 
storm into ‘‘ Wandering Wood,”’ retires 
for the night to Hypocrisy’s cell. St. 
George quits the cell, leaving Una be- 
hind. In her search for him she is 
caressed by a lon, who afterwards 
attends her. She next sleeps in the hut 
of Superstition, and next morning meets 
Hypocrisy dressed as St. George. As 
they journey together Sansloy meets 
them, exposes Hypocrisy, kills the lion, 
and carries off Una on his steed to a 
wild forest. Una fills the air with her 
shrieks, and is rescued by the fauns and 
satyrs, who attempt to worship her, but, 
being restrained, pay adoration to her 
ass. She is delivered from the satyrs 
and fauns by Sir Satyrane, and is told 
by Archi‘mago that St. George is dead, 
but subsequently hears that he is the 
captive of Orgoglio. She goes to King 
Arthur for aid, and the king both slays 
Orgoglio and rescues the knight. Una 


Una Serranilla 


now takes St. George to the house of 
Holiness, where he is carefully nursed, 
and then leads him to Eden, where their 
union is consummated. (Spenser > Faérie 
Queene, bk. i.) (See Lion.) 


Una Serranilla [a /ittle mountain 
song], by Mendo’za, Marquis of Santil- 
lana, godfather of Diego Hurtado de 
Mendoza. This song, of European cele- 
brity, was composed on a little girl 
found by the marquis tending her 
father’s flocks on the hills, and is called 
The Charming Milk-maiden of Sweet 
Fin'ojo'sa. 

Un'anel’ed (3 syl.). Unanointed ; 
without extreme unction. (Saxon ell 
means ‘‘oil,’? and an-ell to ‘anoint 
with oil.’’) 

“ Unhouseled hl the last sacrament], dis- 


appointed, unaneled.” ἢ 
Shakespeare: Hamlet, i.5. 


Uneas, the son of Chingachcook ; 
called in French Le Cerf Agile (Deer- 
foot) ; introduced into three of Fenimore 
Cooper’s novels—viz. The Last of the 
Mohicans, The Pathfinder, and The 
Pioneer. 

Un'cial Letters. Letters an inch in 
size. From the fifth to the ninth cen- 
tury. (Latin τοῖα, an inch.) 


Uncircumcised in Heart and 
Ears (Acts vii. 51). Obstinately deaf 
and wilfully obdurate to the preaching 
of the apostle. Heathenish, and per- 
versely so. 

Uncle. Don’t come the uncle over me. 
In Latin, ‘‘ Ne sis patruus mihi”? 
(Horace ; 2 Sat., iti. 88)—i,.e. do not overdo 
your privilege of reproving or castigating 
me. The Latin notion of a patruus or 
uncle left guardian was that of a severe 
castigatorandreprover. Similarly, their 
idea of a step-mother was a woman of 
stern, unsympathetic nature, who was 
unjust to her step-children, and was 
generally disliked. 

“ Metuentes patruz verbera linguz.”—Horace : 
8 Odes, xii. 3. 

Uncle. Gone to my unele’s, Uncle’s 
isa pun on the Latin word wncus, a hook. 
Pawnbrokers employed a hook to lift 
articles pawned before spouts were 
adopted. ‘‘Gone to the wzcus’’ is ex- 
actly tantamount to the more modern 
phrase ‘‘Up the spout.’”’ The pronoun 
was inserted to carry out the pun. In 
French, ‘‘ C’est chez ma tante.’’ At the 
pawnbroker’s, 


Uncle Sam. (See Sam.) 


Uncle Tom. A negro slave, noted 
for his fidelity, piety, and the faithful 


1260 


Under which King 


discharge of all his duties. Being sold, 
he has to submit to the most revolting 
cruelties. (Mrs. Beecher Stowe: Unele 
Tom’s Cabin.) 

“ This tale was founded on the story 
of Josiah Henson (1787), told to Mrs, 
Stowe by Henson himself. 


Unco has two meanings: As an ad- 
Jective it means unknown, strange, un- 
usual; but as an adver) it means very— 
as unco good, unco glad, etc. ‘lhe 
‘‘unco guid’? are the pinchbeck saints, 
too good by half. 


“The race of the ‘unco guid’ is not yet quite 
extinct in Scotland.’—A UVaily Journal. 


Uncumber (S¢.), formerly called St. 
Wylgeforte. ‘*Women changed her 
name’’ (says Sir Thomas More) ‘ be- 
cause they reken that for a pecke of 
otys she will not faile to «wncuwmber them 
of their husbondys,’’ The tradition 
says that the saint was very beautiful, 
but, wishing to lead a single life, prayed 
that she might have a beard, after 
which she was no more cumbered with 
lovers, ‘For a peck of oats,’’ says Sir 
Thomas More, ‘‘she would provide a 
horse for an evil housebonde to ride to 
the Devill upon.”’ 

“Ifa wife were weary of a husband, she offered 
oats at Poules . . . to St, Uncumber,’—Michael 
Woode (1554). 

Un'der-cur’rent metaphorically 
means something at work which has an 
opposite tendency to what is visible or 
apparent. Thus in the Puritan supre- 
macy there was a strong under-current 
of loyalty to the banished prince. Both 
in air and water there are frequently 
two currents, the upper one running in 
one direction, and the under one in 
another. 


Under-spur-leather. An under- 
strapper; a subordinate; the leather 
strap which goes under the heel of the 
boot to assist in keeping the spur in the 
right place. 

“Everett and Dangerfield , . were subor- 
dinate informers—a sort of under-spur-leathers, 
as the cant term went.’—Sir W. Scott: Peveril of 
the Peak, chap. xli. 

Under the Rose [sud vo'sa]. (806 
article ROSE.) 


Under Weigh. The undertaking is 
already begun. A ship is said to be 
under weigh when it has drawn its an- 
chors from their moorings, and started 
on its voyage. ; 

Under which King, Bezonian? 
Which horn of the dilemma is to be 
taken? (See BEZOQNIAN.) 


Underwriter 


Underwriter. An underwriter at 
Lloyds. One who insures a ship or its 
merchandise to a stated amount. So 
called because he writes his name under 
the policy. 


Undine’ (2 syl.). The water-nymph, 
who was created without a soul, like all 
others of her species. By marrying a 
mortal she obtained a soul, and with it 
all the pains and penalties of the human 
race. (La Motte Fouqué: Undine.) 

*t Founded on a tale told by Para- 
celsusin his Treatise on Elemental Sprites. 
(See Farry, SYLPHS.) 


Ungrateful Guest (Zhe). (Sce 
GUEST. ) 
Unguem. 4d wrgiucm. To the mi- 


nutest point. To finish a statue ad wr- 
guem is to finish it so smoothly and 
perfectly that when the nail is run over 
the surface it can detect no imperfection. 


Unhinged. J am quite unhinged. 
My nerves are shaken, my equilibrium 
of mind is disturbed; I am like a door 
which has lost one of its hinges. 


Unhou selled (3 syl.)._ Without hav- 
ing had the Eucharist in the hour of 
death. To house! is to administer the 
“‘sacrament’’ to the sick in danger of 
death. Housel is the Saxon /wsel (the 
Eucharist). Lye derives it from the 
Gothic hwnsa (a victim). 


U'nicorn. According to the legends 
of the Middle Ages, the unicorn could be 
caught only by placing a virgin in his 
haunts; upon seeing the virgin, the 
creature would lose its fierceness and lie 
quiet at her feet. This is said to be an 
allegory of Jesus Christ, who willingly 
became man and entered the Virgin’s 
womb, when He was taken by the hunters 
of blood. The one horn symbolises the 
great Gospel doctrine that Christ is one 
with God. (Guillaume, Clerc de Norman- 
die Trouvere.) 

++ The unicorn has the legs of a buck, 
the tail of a lion, the head and body of a 
horse, and a single horn in the middle of 
its forehead. ‘The horn is white at the 
base, black in the middle, and red at the 
tip. The body of the unicorn is white, 
the head red, and eyes blue. The oldest 
author that describes it is Cte’sias 
(Β.σ. 400); Aristotle calls it the Wild 
Ass; Pliny, the Indian Ass; Lobo also 
describes it in his History of Abyssinia. 

Unicorn. James I. substituted a uni- 
corn, one of the supporters of the royal 
arms of Scotland, for the red dragon of 


1261 


Union Jack 


Wales, introduced by Henry VII. Ari- 
osto refers to the arms of Scotland thus : 
“Yon lion placed two unicorns between 
That rampant with a silver sword is seen. 
Is for the king of Scotland's banner known.” 
Hoole, iii. 
Unicorn. According to a belief once 
popular, the unicorn by dipping its horn 
into a liquid could detect whether or 
not it contained poison. In the designs 
for gold and silver plate made for the 
Emperor Rudolph 11. by Ottavio Strada 
is a cup on which a unicorn stands as if 
to essay the liquid. 
Driving unicorn. Two wheelers and 
one leader. The leader is the one horn, 
(Latin, wnewm cornu, one horn.) 


Unicorns. So whale-fishers call nar- 
whals, from the long twisted tusks, often 
eight feet long. 


Unigen'itus (Latin, The Only-Be- 
gotten). A Papal bull, so called from 
its opening sentence, ‘* Unrgen'itus Det 
Filius.’ It was issued in condemnation 
of Quesnel’s Réflexions Morales, which 
favoured Jansenism; the bull was issued 
in 1713 by Clement XI., and was a 
damnatio in globo —i.e. a condemnation 
of the whole book without exception. 
Cardinal de Noailles, Archbishop of Paris, 
took the side of Quesnel, and those who 
supported the archbishop against the 
pope were termed ‘‘Appelants.’? In 
1730 the bull was condemned by the civil 
authorities of Paris, and the controversy 
died out. 


Union Jack. The national banner 
of Great Britain and Ireland. It consists 
of three united crosses—that of St. George 
for England, the saltire of St. Andrew for 
Scotland, and the cross of St. Patrick for 
Treland. 

In the Union Jack the white edging of 
St. George’s cross shows the white field. 
In the saltire the cross is reversed on 
each side, showing that the other half of 
the cross is covered over. The broad 
white band is the St. Andrew’s cross ; 
the narrow white edge is the white field 
of St. Patrick’s cross. 

In regard to the word ‘‘ Jack,’’ some 
say it is Jacque (James), the name of the 


| king who united the flags, but this is not 


correct. Jacque is a surcoat emblazoned 
with St. George’s cross. James I. added 
St. Andrew’s cross, and St. Patrick’s 
cross was added in 1801. (Jaque, our 
ἐς jacket.’”) 

Technically described thus : 


“The Union Flag shall be azure, the Crosses 
Saltire of St. Andrew and St. Patrick quarterly 
per saltire, counterchanged, argent and gules, the 


Union Rose 


1262 


Up 


ee ———————eeeeeEeEeEeEeEeeeEeEeEeEeEeEeEE———————— ΞΟ 


latter fimbriated of the second, surmounted by 
the Cross of St. George of the third, fimbriated 
as the saltire.’—By order of the Council. 


“Jaque, de Vallemand jacke, espece de_ petite 
casaque militaire qu’ on portait au moyen age sur 
les armes et sur Ja cuirasse."—Bowillet: Dic- 
tionnaire Universel. 

Union Rose (Z/ic). The York and 
Lancaster, the petals of which are white 
and red; the white representing the 
white rose of the House of York, and 
the red representing the red rose of the 
House of Lancaster. 


Unionists. A Whig and Radical 
party opposed to Home Rule in Ireland. 
It began in 1886, and in 1895 joined the 
Conservative government. 

Unita'rians, in England, ascribe 
their foundation to John Biddle (1615- 
1662). Milton (?), Locke, Newton, Lard- 
ner, and many other men of historic note 
were Unitarians. 


United Kingdom. The name adopted 
on January Ist, 1801, when Great Bri- 
tain and Ireland were united. 


United States. The thirty-six 
states of North America composing the 
Federal Republic. ach state is repre- 
sented in the Federal Congress by two 
senators, and a number of representa- 
tives proportionate to the number of 
inhabitants. The nickname of a United 
States man~is ‘‘a Brother Jonathan,”’’ 
and of the people in the aggregate 
‘‘Brother Jonathan” (g.v.). Declared 
their independence July 4th, 1776. 


Unities. (See ARISTOTELIAN.) 


Universal Doctor. Alain de Lille 
(1114-1203). 

Universe (3 syl.). According to the 
Peripatetics, the universe consists of 
eleven spheres enclosed within each other 
like Chinese balls. The eleventh sphere 
is called the empyre’an or heaven of the 


blessed. (See HEAVEN.) 
Univer'sity. First applied to col- 
legiate societies of learning in the 


twelfth century, because the wriversitas 
literarum (entire range of literature) 
was taught in them—zi.e. arts, the- 
ology, law, and physic, still called the 
“learned”? sciences. Greek, Latin, 
erammar, rhetoric, and poetry are called 
humanity studies, or humanorés litera, 
meaning ‘lay’ studies in contradis- 
tinction to divinity, which is the study 
of divine things. (See Can.) 


Unknown. Zhe Great Unknown. 
Sir Walter Scott. So called because the 
Waverley Novels were at first. published 


anonymously. It was James Ballan- 
tyne who first applied the term to the 
unknown novelist. 


Unlicked or Unlicked Cub. A 
loutish, unmannerly youth. According 
to tradition, the bear cub is misshapen 
and imperfect till its dam has licked it 
into form. 


Unlucky Gifts. (See Farau Gers.) 


Unmanned (2 syl.). A man reduced 
to tears. It is a term in falconry applied 
to a hawk not yet subservient to man; 
metaphorically, having lost the spirit, 
etc., of a man. 


Unmarried Men of Note. 
WIVES.) 

Unmentionables. Breeches. 

“Corinthians and exquisites from Bond Street, 
sporting an eye-glass, ... Waiting-men in laced 
eoats and plush unmentionables of yellow, green, 
hlue, red, and all the primary colours.”—Rev. N.S. 
Wheaton: Journal (1830). 

Unready (Zhe). Ethelred II.—i.e. 
lacking rede (counsel), (*, 978-1016.) 

Unrighteous [Adokimos]. St. 
Christopher’s name before baptism. It 
was changed to Christ-bearer because he 
carried over a stream a little child, who 
(according to tradition) proved to be 
Jesus Christ. 


Unwashed (2 syl.). It was Burke 
who first called the mob ‘‘ the great un- 
washed,’’? but the term ‘‘ unwashed ”’ 
had been applied to them before, for 
Gay uses it. 

τε The king of late drew forth his sword 
(Thank God, ‘twas not in wrath), 
And made, of many a squire and lord, 


An unwashed knight of Bath.” 
A Ballad on Quadrille. 


Up. The House is up. The business 
of the day is ended, and the members 
may rise up from their seats and go 
home. 

ALB, is up. 
a speech. 

“ Up, Guards, and ut them !”’ Creasy, 
in his Fifteen Decisive Battles, states that 
the Duke of Wellington gave this order 
in the final charge at the battle of Water- 
loo. It has been utterly denied by re- 
cent writers, but it is the fashion to deny 
or discredit all cherished traditions. 1, 
for one, wish the tradition were true, 
because, like Nelson’s mot at Trafalgar, 
it gives a memorable interest to the 
charge; but alas! we are informed that 
it was not the Guards, but the 52nd 
light infantry which broke the column 
of the French Imperial Guard in the 
final charge, and “honour to whom 
honour is due.” ee Lisa 


(See 


A.B. is on his legs, in for 


Up a Tree 


1263 


Urda 


Up a Tree. Shelved; nowhere ; done 
for. A ’possum up a gum-tree. (ASce 
under TREE.) 


Up the Spout. In pawn. (See Spout.) 
Up to Snuff. (See SNUFF.) 


Up to the Hub. Hub is an archaic 
word for the nave of a wheel, the hilt of 
a weapon, or the mark aimed at in 
quoits. If a cart sinks in the mud up 
to the hub, it can sink no lower; if a 
man is thrust through with a sword up 
to the hub, the entire sword has passed 
through him ; and if a quoit strikes the 
hub, it is not possible to do better. 
Hence the phrase means fully, entirely, 
as far as possible. It is not American, 
but archaic English. (Se2 Hus.) 

“T shouldn't commune with nobody that didn’t 
believe in election up to the hub.“—Mrs. Stowe: 
Dred, Vol.i. p. 211. 

Up to the Mark. In good condition 
of health; well skilled in proposed work. 
“ΕἾΝ οὗ up to the mark’? means a cup too 
low, or not sufficiently skilled. 


Up-turning of his Glass. He felt 
that the hour for the up-turning of his 
glass was at hand. He knew that the 
sand of life was nearly run out, and that 
death was about to turn his hour-glass 
upside down. 


Upas-tree or foison-trce of Macassar. 
Applied to anything baneful or of evil 
influence. The traditionis that a putrid 
stream rises from the tree which grows 
in the island of Java, and that whatever 
the vapour touches dies. This fable is 
chiefly due to Foersch, a Dutch phy- 
sician, Who published his narrative in 
1783. ‘Not a tree,’’ he says, ‘‘nor 
blade of grass is to be found in the 
valley or surrounding mountains. Not 
a beast or bird, reptile or living thing, 
lives in the vicinity.”’ He adds that on 
“fone occasion 1,600 refugees encamped 
within fourteen miles of it, and all but 
300 died within two months.’? This 
fable Darwin has perpetuated in his 
Loves of the Plants. Bennett has shown 
that the Dutchman's account is a mere 
traveller’s tale, for the tree while grow- 
ing is quite innocuous, though the juice 
may be used for poison; the whole 
neighbourhood is most richly covered 
with vegetation; men can fearlessly 
walk under the tree, and birds roost on 
its branches. A upas tree grows in 
Kew Gardens, and flourishes amidst 
other hot-house plants. 

“On the blasted heath 


Fell Upas sits, the hydra-tree of death.” 
, Darwin: Loves of the Plants, ili. 233, 


Upper Crust. The lions or crack 
men of the day. The phrase was first 
used in Sam Slick. The upper crust 
was at one time the part of the loaf 
placed before the most honoured guests. 
Thus, in Wynkyn de Worde’s Boke of 
Keruinge (carving) we have these di- 
rections: ‘Then take a lofe in your 
lyfte hande, and pare ye lofe rounde 
about; then cut the ouer-cruste to your 
souerayne .. .”? Furnwall, in Manners 
and Meales, etc., says the same thing— 
‘Kutt the vpper cruste for your souer- 
ayne.”’ 

“T want you to see Peel, Stanley, Graham, Shicl, 


Russell, Macaulay, old Joe,and soon, They are 
all upper crust here.” é 
Upper Storey. The head. “TIIl- 


furnished in the upper storey ;”’ a head 


without brains. 


Upper Ten Thousand or The 
Upper Ten. The aristocracy. The 
term was first used by N. P. Willis, in 
speaking of the fashionables of New 
York, who at that time were not more 
than ten thousand in number. 


Uproar is not compounded of wp and 
roar, but is the German auf-ruhren (to 
stir up). 


Upsee-Dutch. A heavy Dutch beer ; 
Upsee Freese a Friesland strong ale; 
Upsee English, a strong English ale. 
Upsee Dutch also means tipsy, stupid 
with drink, 

“T do not like the dulness of your eye, 
It hath a heavy cast ; tis upsee-Dutch, 
And says you are a lumpish whoremaster.” 
Ben Jonson: The Alchemist, iv. 4. 
“ Yet whoop, Barnaby! off with thy liquor, 
Drink upsees out, and a fig for the vicar.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Lady of the Lake, Vi. 5. 
“Teacli me how to take the German upsy freeze, 
the Danish rouser,the Switzer’s stoop of Rbenish.” 
—Dekker: Gulls Hornbook (1609). 

Up’set Price. The price at which 
goods sold by auction are first offered 
for competition. If no advance is made 
they fall to the person who made the 
upset price. Our ‘‘reserved bid” is 
virtually the same thing. 

Urbi et Orbi [Zo Rome and the vest 


of the world]. A form used in the pub- 
lication of Papal bulls. 


Urd [Zhe Past]. Guardian of the 
sacred fount called Urda, where the 
gods sit in judgment. (Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

Urda or Urdan Fount (7/7). The 
sacred fount of light and heat, situated 
over the Rainbow Bridge, Bifrost. (Scav- 
dinavian mythology.) 

Urda, Verdandi, and Skulda. The 
three Nornir (Past, Present, and Future) 


a. 


Urgan 


1264 


Usher 


who dwell ina beautiful hall below the 
ash-tree Yggdrasil’. Their employment 
is to engrave on a shield the destiny of 
man. (Scandinavian mythology.) 

*? Urd (Past) takes the threads from 
Verdandi (Present), and Verdandi takes 
them from Skuld (/wtewe). 

4 ‘‘ What is that which was ¢o-morrow 
and will be yesterday δ) Verdandi 
stands between Skuld (¢o-morrow) and 
Urd (yesterday). 


Urgan. <A mortal born and chris- 
tened, but stolen by the king of the 
fairies and brought up in elf-land. He 
was sent to Lord Richard, the husband 
of Alice Brand, to lay on him the ‘‘ curse 
of the sleepless eye ’’ for killing his wife’s 
brother Ethert. When Lord Richard 
saw the hideous dwarf he crossed him- 
self, but the elf said, ‘‘I fear not sign 
made with a bloody hand.’? Then for- 
ward stepped Alice and made the sign, 
and the dwarf said if any woman would 
sion his brow thrice with a cross he 
should recover his mortal form, Alice 
signed him thrice, and the elf became 
‘‘the fairest knight in all Scotland, in 
whom she recognised her brother 
Ethert.”’ (Sir Walter Scott: Alice Brand; 
Lady of the Lake, iv. 12.) 


Urganda la Desconeci'da. An 
enchantress or sort of Mede’a in the 
romances belonging to the Am‘adis and 
Pal'merin series, inthe Spanish school of 
romance. 


Ur'gel. Oneof Charlemagne’s pala- 
dins, famous for his ‘‘ giant strength.”’ 


Uriah. Letter of Uriah, 
15.) (See LETTER. . .) 


Uriel. ‘‘Regent of the Sun,” and 
“sharpest-sighted spirit of all in 
heaven.”’ (I/ilton: Paradise Lost, iii. 690. ) 

Longfellow, in the Golden Legend, 
makes Raphael the angel of the Sun, 
and Uriel the minister of Mars. (Sve 
RAPHAEL.) 


“Tam the minister of Mars, 
The strongest star among the stars. 
My songs of power prelude 
The march and battle of man’s life, 
And for the suffering and the strife 
I give him fortitude.” 
The Miracle Play, iit. 


U'rim, in Garth’s Dispensary, is Dr. 
Atterbury. 
“‘Urim was civil, and not void of sense, 
Had humour and courteous confidence. ... 
Constant at feasts, and each decorum knew, 
And soon as the dessert appeared, withdrew.” 
Canto i. 
Urim and Thummim consisted of 
three stones, which were deposited in 


the double lining of the high priest’s 


(2 Sam, xi. 


breastplate. One stone represented Yes, 
one No, and one No answer is to be given. 
When any question was brought to the 
high priest to be decided by ‘‘ Urim,’’ 
the priest put his hand into the ‘‘ pouch”’ 
and drew out one of the stones, and ac- 
cording to the stone drawn out the 
question was decided. (Lev. viii. 8; 
1 Sam. xxviii. 6.) 


Ursa Major. Calisto, daughter of 
Lyca’on, was violated by Jupiter, and 
Juno changed her into a bear. Jupiter 
placed her among the stars that she 
might be more under his protection. 
Homer calls it Arktos the bear, and 
Hamaxa the waggon. The Romans 
calledit Ursa the bear, and Septemtrio'nés 
the seven ploughing oxen; whence ‘‘Sep- 
tentriona’lis’’ came to signify the north, 
The common names in Europe for the 
seven bright stars are ‘‘ the plough,” 
‘the waggon,” ‘‘ Charles’s wain,”’ *‘ the 
Great Bear,’’ ete. 

Boswell’s father used to call Dr. John- 
son Ursa Major. (See BEaR.) 


Ursa Minor. Also called Cynosw'ra, 
or ‘‘ Dog’s tail,’’ from its circular sweep. 


The pole star is @ in the tail. (See 
CYNOSURE. ) 
St. Ursula and the eleven thousand 


virgin martyrs. Ursula was a British 
princess, aud, as the legend says, was 
going to France with her virgin train, 
but was driven by adverse winds to 
Cologne, where she and her 11,000 com- 
panions were martyred by the Huns. 
This extravagant legend is said to have 
originated in the discovery of an inscrip- 
tion to Ursula et Undecimilla Virgines, 
‘the virgins Ursula and Undecimilla ;”’ 
but by translating the latter name, the 
inscription reads “ Ursula and her 11,000 
virgins.’’ Visitors to Cologne are shown 
piles of skulls and human bones heaped 
in the wall, faced with glass, which the 
verger asserts are the relics of the 11,000 
martyred virgins. (Sce VIRGINS.) 


Used Up. Worn out, tired out, utterly 
fatigued, or exhausted. Used up alludes 
to articles used up. Worn out alludes 
to dresses and articles worn out by use. 
Exhausted alludes to wells, water, etc., 
dried up. Tired out means tired utterly. 

τ Being out night after night, she got kinder 
used up.”—Sum Slick: Human Nature, p. 192. 

Ush’er means a porter. (Old French, 
huisher, a door; whence /wissier, an 
usher; Latin, ostiarius.) One who 
stands at the door to usher visitors into 
the presence. (Scotch, Wishart.) 


Usquebaugh 


1265 


ννυν. 


Us’quebau’gh (9 syl.). Whisky 
(Irish, wisge-beatha, water ot life). Simi- 
lar to the Latin agua vite, and the 
French eau de vie. 


Ut. Saxon owt, as Utoxeter, in Staf- 
fordshire ; Utrecht, in Holland; ‘‘ outer 
camp town’’; the ‘‘out passage,’’ so 
called by Clotaire because it was the 
grand passage over or out of the Rhine 
before that river changed its bed. Ut- 
most isout or outer-most. (See UTGARD.) 

“Strain at [wt, “out’] a gnat, and swallow a 
camel.”’—Matt. Xxiii. 24. 

Ut Queat Laxis, etc. This hymn 
was composed in 770. Dr. Busby, in 
his Musical Dictionary, says it is 
ascribed to John the Baptist, but has 
omitted to inform us by whom. (See Do.) 


τα. Queen of Burgundy, mother of 
Kriemhild and Gunther. (The Nibe- 
lungen- Lied.) 


U’ter. Pendragon (chief) of the 
Britons ; by an adulterous amour with 
Igerna (wife of Gorlois, Duke of Corn- 
wall) he became the father of Arthur, 
who succeeded him as king of the Silmés, 


U'terine (3syl.). 4 uterine brother 
or sister. One born of the same mother 
but not of the same father. (Latin, 
uterus, the womb.) 


Ut'gard (Old Norse, outer ward). The 
circle of rocks that hemmed in the ocean 
which was supposed to encompass the 
world, The giants dwelt among the 
rocks. (Scandinavian mythology.) 


Utgard-Lok. The demon of the 
infernal regions. (Scandinavian myth- 
ology.) 

Uti Posside’tis (latin, as you at 
present possess them). The belligerents 
are to retain possession of all the places 
taken by them before the treaty com- 
menced. 


U'ticen’sis. Cato the Younger was 
so called from U’tica, the place of his 
death. 


Utilita’rians. A word first used by 
John Stuart Mill; but Jeremy Bentham 
employed the word ‘‘ Utility ’’ to signify 
the doctrine which makes ‘‘ the happi- 
ness of man” the one and only measure 
of right and wrong. 

“Oh, happiness, our being’s endandaim.... 

For which we bear to live, or dare to die.” 

Pope: Essay on Man, Epistleiv+ 

Uto’pia properly means nowhere 
(Greek, ow topos). It is the imaginary 
island of Sir Thomas More, where every- 
thing is perfect—the laws, the morals, 


80 


the politics, ete. In this romance the 
evils of existing laws, etc., are shown by 
contrast. (1516.) (See WEISSNICHTWO.) 

Utopia, the kingdom of Grangousier. 
When Pantagruel’ sailed thither from 
France and had got into the main ocean, 
he doubled the Cape of Good Hope and 
made for the shores of Melinda, ‘‘ Part- 
ing from Me’damoth, he sailed with a 
northerly wind, passed Me’dam, Ge- 
lasem, and the Fairy Isles; and keeping 
Uti to the left and Uden to the right, 
ran into the port of Utopia, distant 
about three and a half leagues from the 
city of the Amaurots.” (Medamoth, 
from no place ; Me'dam, nowhere ; Gela- 
sem, hidden land: Uti, nothing at all; 
Uden, nothing ; Utopia, no place, dis- 
tant three and a half leagues from 
Amauros, the vanishing point — all 
Greek.) (See QUEUBUS.) 

Uto'pian. An impracticable scheme 
for the improvement of society. Any 
scheme of profit or pleasure which is not 
practicable. (See UTOPIA.) 


U'traquists [Both -kinders}, The 
followers of Huss were so called, because 
they insisted that both the elements 
should be administered to all communi- 
cants in the Eucharist. (Latin, utraque 
specie, in both kinds.) 


Utter and Inner Barristers. An 
utter or outer barrister means (in some 
cases at least) a full-fledged barrister, 
one licensed to practise. ~An inner 
barrister means a student. (Sve Nine- 
teenth Century, No. 1892, p. 775, note.) 

Uz'ziel. The angel next in command 
to Gabriel. The word means ‘‘ Strength 
of God.’’ Uzziel is commanded by Ga- 
briel to ‘‘ coast the south with strictest 
watch.”’ (Milton: Paradise Lost, iv. 782.) 


ν 


V represents a hook, and is called in 
Hebrew vav (a hook), 


V. D. M. on monuments is 171) Dei 
Minis' ter, or Verbi Dei Minister. 

ν. ἢ. Μ. 1. 2B. (Verbum Dei manet in 
@ternum). The word of God endureth for 
ever. The inscription on the livery of 
the servants of the Duke of Saxony 
and Landgrave of Hesse, the Lutheran 
princes, at the Diet of Spires in 1526. 


V. V. V., the letters found on the 
coin of the 20th Roman legion, stand 
for “‘ Valeria, Vicesima, Victrix.”’ 


Vacuum 


Vacuum now means a space from 
which air has been expelled. Descartes 
says, ‘‘If a vacuum could be effected in 
a vessel, the sides would be pressed into 
contact.’’? Galileo said, ‘‘ Nature abhors 
a vacuum,’’ to account for the rise of 
water in pumps. (See Pornt.) 


Vac'uum Boylea’‘num. Such a 
vacuum as can be produced by Boyle’s 
improved air-pump, the nearest approach 
to a vacuum practicable with human 
instruments, 

The Guerickian vacuum is that produced hy 
ordinary air-pumps, so called from Otto von 
Guericke, who devised the air-pump. 

The Yorricellian yvacuwn is the vacuum pro- 
duced by a mercury-pump, 

Va/de Mecum [a go-with-me]. A 
pocket-book, memorandum-book, pocket 
cyclopzedia, lady’s pocket companion, or 
anything else which contains many 
things of daily use in a small compass, 


Vex Victis ! 


Vail (10). To lower; to cast down. 
Brutus complained that he had not 
lately seen in Cassius that courtesy and 
show of love which he used to notice ; to 
which Cassius replies, ‘‘ If I have vailed 
[lowered] my looks, I turn the trouble 
of my countenance merely on myself. 
Vexed I am of late. . . [and this may] 
give some soil to my behaviour.”’ 

© His hat, which never vailed to human pride, 

Walker with reverence took and laid aside.” 

Duneiad, iv. 

Vails. Blackmail in-the shape of 
fees to servants. (From the Latin verb 
waleo, to be worth, to be of value; 
French, valoiv.) The older form was 
avails, 

“Vailas to servants being much in fashion.” 

Russell: Representative Actors. 


Vain as a Peacock. (See SIMILES.) 


Valdar'no. The valley of the Arno, 
in Tuscany. 


“__ the Tuscan artist [Galileo] views 
At evening from the top of Fesolé, 
Or in Valdarno ?” 
Milton : Paradise Lost, bk. i. 207-209. 


Vale of Avo’ca in Wicklow, Ireland. 


“Sweet Vale of Avoca, how calm could I rest 
In thy bosom of shade, with the friends I love 
hest.”’ 
T. Moore: Trish Melodies, No.1 (The Meeting of 
the Waters.) 


Woe to the vanquished, 


Vale of Tears. This world. (See 
Baca.) 
Vale the Bonnet (70). Tocaptoa 


superior; hence to strike sail, to lower 
(French, avaler, to take off.) 
“My wealthy Andrew docked in sand, 


Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs.” 
Shakespeare : Merchant of Venice, i. 1, 


1266 


Valerian 
Valens or Vala’nus. Mercury was 
the son of Valens and Phoro’nis. This 


Mercury is called Tropho’nius in the 


regions under the earth. (Cicero: De 
Nat. Deorum, iii, 22.) 
“Ciclin‘ius [Mercury] riding in his hirachee 
Fro Venus V’lanus might this palais see.” 
Chaucer: Compl. of Mars and Venus. 
Valentia. The southern part of 
Scotland was so called from the Emperor 


Valens. 


Valentine. A corruption of galan- 
tin (a lover, a dangler), a gallant. St. 
Valentine was selected for the sweet- 
hearts’ saint because of hisname. Simi- 
lar changes are seen in gallant and 
valiant. 

Valentine. One of the Two Gentle- 
men of Vero’na; his serving-man is 
Speed. The other gentleman is Pro- 
teus, whose serving-man is Launce. 
(Shakespeare: Two Gentlemen of Verona.) 

Valentine, in Congreve’s Love for 
Love. Betterton’s great character, 

Valentine (The Brave). Brother of 
Orson and the son of Bellisant, sister of 
King Pepin and wife of Alexander, Em- 
peror of Constantinople. The twin 
brothers were born in a wood, near 
Orleans, and while their mother went in 
search of Orson, who had been carried 
off by a bear, Pepin happened to see 
Valentine and took him under his 
charge. He married Clerimond, niece 
of the Green Knight. (Valentine and 
Orson.) 


Valentin'‘ians. An ancient sect of 
Gnostics. So called from Valentinus, 
their leader, 


Vale'rian or Valirian. Husband of 
St. Cecilia. Cecilia told him she was 
beloved by an angel who frequently 
visited her, and Valerian requested he 
might be allowed to see this constant 
visitant. Cecilia told him he should do 
so provided he went to Pope Urban and 
got baptised. On returning home, he 
saw the angel in his wife’s chamber, who 
gave to Cecilia a crown of roses, and to 
himself a crown of lilies, both of which 
he brought from Paradise. The angel 
then asked Valerian what would please 
him best, and he answered that his 
brother might be brought “ to saving 
faith’? by God’s grace. The angel ap- 
proved of the petition, and said both 
should be holy martyrs. Valerian being 
brought before Alma’chius, the prefect, 
was commanded to worship the image of 
Jupiter, and, refusing to do so, was led 
forth to execution. (Chaucer : Secounde 
Nonnes Tale.) (See CECILIA.) 


Valerian 


Valerian (the herb). An irresistible 
attraction to cats, (The word is from 
the Latin valére, to be well, and hence 
to make well and keep well.) It is an 
excitant, antispasmodic, tonic, and em- 
menagogue. ‘The ‘‘ Father of Botany”’ 
says: 

“Valerian hath been had in such veneration, 
that no brothes, pottage, or physical meates are 
worth anything, if this be not at one end.” 

Valhalla, in Scandinavian myth- 
ology, is the great hali or refectory of 
Gladsheim, the palace of the Adsir or 
Asgard. The Times, speaking of West- 
minster Abbey, says ‘‘ The Abbey is our 
Valhalla.”’ 


“We both must pass from earth away, 
Valhalla’s joys to see ; 
And if I wander there to-day 
To-morrow may fetch thee.” ἢ 
Frithiof-Saga, lay xi. 
Valiant (Zhe). Jean LV. of Brittany. 
(1389-1442.) 


Valis’e (2 syl.). A small leather 
portmanteau. (French, valise.) 


Valkyriur or Valkyries. The twelve 
-nymphs of Valhalla. They were mounted 
on swift horses, and held drawn swords 
in their hands. In the mélée of battle 
they selected those destined to death, 
and conducted them to Valhalla, where 
they waited upon them, and served them 
with mead and ale in cups of horn called 
skulls. The chief were Mista, San’grida, 
and Hilda. Valkyriur means ‘‘ chooser 
of the slain.”’ 


“ Mista black, terrific maid, 
Sangrida and Hilda see.” 
Gray: Fatal Sisters. 
Valla (Laurentius). One of the first 
scholars of the Renaissance, noted for 
his Latin sermons, and his admirable 
Latin translations of Herodotus and 
Thucydides. 


Val/lary Crown. A crown bestowed 
by the ancient Romans on the soldier 
who first surmounted the vallum of an 
enemy’s camp. 


Valley of Humiliation. The place 
where Christian encountered Apollyon, 
just before he came to the ‘ Valley of 
the Shadow of Death.” (Bunyan: Pil- 
gruws Progress, pt. i.) 

Valley of the Shadow of Death, 
through which Christian had to pass in 
order to get to the Celestial City. The 
prophet Jeremiah describes it as a ‘‘ wil- 
derness, a land of deserts and of pits, a 
land of drought and of the shadow of 
death’’ (ii. 6); and the Psalmist says, 
“Though I walk through the valley of 
the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, 


1267 


Van 


for Thou art with me; Thy rod and Thy 
staff they comfort me’’ (xxiii. 4). 

“The light there is darkness, and the way full 
of traps and gins to catch the unwary.”—Bunyan: 
Pilgrim's Proyress, pt. 1. 

Vallombro’sa. Milton says, ‘‘ Thick 
as autumnal leaves that strew the 
brooks in Vallombrosa”’ (Paradise Lost, 
i. 302); but as the trees of Vallombrosa 
are chiefly pines, they do not strew the 
brooks with autumnal leaves. The beech 
and chestnut trees are by no means 
numerous, 


Valorem. dd valorem. A sliding 
scale of duty on excisable articles, regu- 
lated according to their market value. 

Thus, tea at 4s. per pound would pay more duty 
than tea at 2s. per pound, 

Vamp. 170 vamp up an old story. To 
vamp is to put new uppers to old boots. 
Vampes were short hose covering the 
feet and ankles, (Perhaps the French 
avant-pied, the fore-part of the foot.) 


Vampire. An extortioner. Accord- 
ing to Dom Calmet, the vampire is a 
dead man who returns in body and 
soul from the other world, and wanders 
about the earth doing mischief to the 
living. He sucks the blood of persons 
asleep, and these persons become yam- 
pires in turn. 

The vampire lies as a corpse during 
the day, but by night, especially at full 
moon, wanders about. Sir W. Scott, in 
his Rokeby (part iii. chap. ii. s. 3) alludes 
to the superstition, and Lord Byron in 
his Giaouwr says, 

© But first on earth,as vampire sent, 
Thy corse shall from the tomb be rent, 
Then ghastly haunt thy native place 
And suck the blood of all thy race.” 

Van of an army is the French avant ; 
but van, a winnowing machine, is the 
Latin vannus, our fan. 

The Spirit of the Van. A sort of fairy 
which haunts the Van Pools in the 
mountains of Carmarthen on New 
Year’s Eve. She is dressed in white, 
girded with a golden girdle; her golden 
hair is very long, and she sits ina golden 
boat, which she urges along with a 
golden oar. A young farmer fell in 
love with her and married her, but she 
told him if he struck her thrice she 
would quit him for ever. After a time 
they were invited to a christening, and 
in the midst of the ceremony she burst 
into tears. Her husband struck her, and 
asked why she made such a fool of her- 
self. “1 weep,’’ she said, ‘‘to see the 
poor babe brought into a vale of misery 
and tears’? They were next invited to 
the funeral of the same child, and she 


ΤΥ 


Van 


1268 


Vatican 


could not resist laughing. Her husband 
struck her again, and asked the same 
question. ‘‘I laugh,’’ she said, ‘‘to think 
how joyous a thing it is that the child 
has left a world of sin for a world of joy 
and innocence.’? They were next in- 
vited to a wedding, where the bride was 
young and the man advanced in years. 
Again she wept, and said aloud, ‘‘It is 
the devil’s compact. The bride has sold 
herself for gold.’? Her husband bade 
her hold her peace, struck her, and she 
vanished for ever from his sight. (]Velsh 
mythology.) 


Van (pl. Vanir), in Scandinavian 
mythology. Gods of the ocean, air, 
fountains, and streams, 


Vandal. One who destroys beautiful 
objects to make way for what he terms 
“‘improvements,’? or to indulge his 
own caprice. When Gen'seric with his 
Vandals captured Rome in A.D. 445, he 
mutilated the public monuments regard- 
less of their worth or beauty. 

“The word *‘yandalism’ was invented by the 
Abbé Grégoire, @ propos of the destruction of 
works of art by revolutionary fanatics."—Nine- 
teenth Century (Aug., 1893, p. 272). 

Vandy’ck. The Vandyck of sculpture. 
Antoine Coysevox (1640-1720). 

The English Vandyck. William Dob- 
son, painter (1610-1647). 


Vandy’ke (2 syl.). To scollop an 
edge after the fashion of the collars 
painted by Vandyck in the reign of 
Charles I. The scolloped edges are said 
to be vandyked. 


Vanessa is Miss Esther Vanhom- 
righ, and Cade’nus is Dean Swift. While 
he was still married to Stella [Miss 
Hester Johnson, whose tutor he , had 
been] Miss Vanhomrigh fell in love with 
him, and requested him to marry her, 
but the dean refused. The proposal 
became known to his wife (?), and both 
the ladies died soon afterwards. Hester 
Johnson was called Stella by a pun 
upon the Greek aster, which resembles 
Hester in sound, and means a “star.” 
Miss Vanhomrigh was called Van-essa 
by compounding Van, the first syllable 
of her name, with Essa, the pet form of 
Esther. Cadenus is simply deca'nus 
(dean) slightly transposed. 


Vanity Fair. A fair established by 
Beelzebub, Apollyon, and Legion, for 
the sale of all sorts of vanities. It was 
held in the town of Vanity, and lasted 
all the year round. Here were sold 
houses, lands, trades, places, honours, 
preferments, titles, countries, kingdoms, 


lusts, pleasures, and delights of all sorts. 

(Bunyan: Pilgrim’s Progress, pt. i.) 
Va'noc. Son of Merlin, one of 

Arthur’s Round-Table Knights. 


“ Young Vanoc of the beardless face 
(Fame spoke the youth of Merlin’s race), 
O’erpowered at Gyneth’s footstool, bled, 
His heart's blood dyed her sandals red.” 
Sir Walter Scott : Bridal of Triermain, ii. 25. 

Vantage Loaf. The thirteenth loaf 
of a baker’s dozen. 

Vari/na. Swift, in his early life, 
professed to have an attachment to 
Miss Jane Waryng, and Latinised her 
name into Varina. (See VANESSA.) 


Varnish, from the French vernis ; 
Italian, ver’nice. Sir G. C. Lewis says 
the word is a corruption of Bereni’ce, 
famous for her amber hair, which was 
dedicated in the temple of Arsin’oé, and 
became a constellation. (See BERENICE.) 


Varro, called ‘‘the most learned of 
the Romans.’’ (B.c. 116-28.) 


Varun’a. The Hindu Neptune. He 
is represented as an old man riding on a 
sea-monster, with a club in one hand and 
a rope in the other. In the Vedic hymns 
he is the night-sky, and Mitra the day- 
sky. Varuna is said to set free the 
‘* waters of the clouds.”’ 


Vassal. A youth. In feudal times 
it meant a feudatory, or one who held 
lands under a ‘‘lord.’’ In law it means 
a bondservant or political slave, as 
‘* England shall never be the vassal of a 
foreign prince.’’ Christian says, in his 
Notes on Blackstone, that the corruption 
of the meaning of vassal into slave ‘‘is 
an incontrovertible proof of the horror 
of feudalism in England.’? (Welsh, 
guwas, a boy or servant; gwasan, a page ; 
like the French gargon, and Latin puer ; 
Italian, vassallo, a servant.) 

Vath’ek. The hero of Beckford’s 
fairy romance. He isa haughty, effemi- 
nate monarch, induced by a malignant 
genius to commit all sortsof crimes. He 
abjures his faith, and offers allegiance to 
Eblis, under the hope of obtaining the 
throne of the pre-Adamite sultans. 


Vat'ican. The palace of the Pope; 
so called because it stands on the 
Vatican Hill. Strictly speaking, the 
Vatican consists of the Papal palace, 
the court and garden of Belvidere, the 
library, and the museum. 

“The sun of the Vatican sheds glory over the 
Catholic world.”—The Times. 

The thunders of the Vati'can. The 
anathenias of the Pope, which are issued 
from the Vatican. 


Vaudeville 


1269. 


Vengeur 


The Council of the Vatican, The 
twenty-first General or (écumenical 
Council. It commenced in 1869, Pius 
IX. being Pope. (See Councits.) 


Vaude'ville (2 syl.). A corruption 
of Val de Vire, or in Old French, Vax 
de Vire, the native valley of Oliver 
Basselin, a Norman poet, the founder of 
a certain class of convivial songs, which 
he called after the name of his own 
valley. These songs are the basis of 
modern vaudeville. 


Father o of the Vaudeville. Oliver Bas- 
selin, a Norman poet. (Fifteenth cen- 
tury.) 

Vau'girard. The deputies of Vaugi- 
yard. Only one individual. This applies 
to all the false companies in which the 
promoter represents the directors, chair- 
man, committee, and entire staff. T he 
expression is founded on an incident in 
the reign of Charles VIII. of France: 
The usher announced to the king “‘ The 
deputies of Vaugirard.”’ ‘‘ How many 
are there?’’? asked the king. ‘‘ Only 
one, and please your majesty,’’ was the 
answer. (See TAILORS.) 


Vauxhall or Fuaurhall (2 syl.). 
Called after Jane Vaux, who held the 
copyhold tenement in 1615, and was the 
widow of John Vaux, the vintner. 
Chambers says it was the manor of 
Fulke de Breauté, the mercenary fol- 
lower of King J ohn, and that the word 
should be Fulke’s Hall. Pepys calls it 
Fox Hall, and says the entertainments 
there are "mighty divertising.”’ (Book 
of Days.) 

Thackeray, in Vanity Fair (chap. vi.), 
sketches the loose character of these ‘‘di- 
vertising’’ amusements. 


Ve. Brother of Odin and Vili. He 
was one of the three deities who took 
part in the ereation of the world. 
(Scandinavian mythology.) 


Veal, Calf. The former is Norman, 
and the latter Saxon. (See BEEF, Pork.) 

““Mynheer Calf becomes Monsieur de Veau in 
the like manner. He is Saxon when he requires 
tendance, but takes a Norman name when he 
becomes matter of enjoyment.”—Sir Walter Scott : 
Ivanhoe. 

Ve'das or Ve'dams. The generic 

name of the four sacred books of the 
Hindus. It comprises (1) the Rig or 
Rish Veda; (2) Yajar or Yajush Veda; 


(9) the Sama or Saman Veda ; and (4 ) 
the Atharva'na or Ezour Veda. (San- 
skrit, vid, know; Chaldee, yed-a ; 


Hebrew, id-o ; Greek, 


eid-o ; Latin, 
video, etc.) 


Vehm’gerichte or Holy Vehme Tri- 
bunal. A secret tribunal of Westphalia, 
said to have been founded by Charle- 
magne. (See FEHM-GERICHT. ) 


Veil. At one time men wore veils, 
as St. Ambrose testifies. He speaks of 
the ‘‘ silken garments and the veils inter- 
woven with gold, with which the bodies 
of rich men are encompassed,”’ (St. Am- 
brose lived 340-397.) 


Veiled Prophet of Khorassan. 
The first poetical tale in Thomas Moore’s 
Lalla Rookh. 

The Veiled Prophet of Khorassan was 
Hakim ben Allah, surnamed the Veiled 
(Mokanna), founder of an Arabic sect in 
the eighth century. Having lost an eye, 
and being otherwise disfigur ed in battle, 
he wore ἃ veil to conceal his face, but his 
followers said it was done to screen his 
dazzling brightness. He assumed to be 
a god, and maintained that he had been 
Adam, Noah, and other representative 
men, When encompassed by Sultan 
Mahadi, he first poisoned all his fol- 
lowers at a banquet, and then threw 
himself into a burning acid, which wholly 
destroyed his body. 


Vendémiaire (4 syl.), in the French 
Republican calendar, was from Septem- 
ber 22 to October 21, The word means 
‘Vintage.’ 


Vendetta. The blood-feud, or duty 
of the nearest kin of a murdered man to 
kill the murderer. It prevails in Corsica, 
and exists in Sicily, Sardinia, and Cala- 
bria. It is preserved among the Druses, 
Circassians, Arabs, ete, (Latin, vindicta.) 


Vendredi (French), Friday. (Latin, 
Venéris dies, Here jener is metamor- 
phosed into Vendre. The Italian is 
Venerdi.) 

Venerable. The Venerable. Bede, 
the ecclesiastical historian. (672-735.) 

The Venerable Doctor. William de 
Champeaux, founder ofrealism. (Twelfth 
centur 


ve 
Peter, Abbot of Clugny. (1093-1156.) 


Vengeur (Je). A man-of-war com- 
manded by Cambrone. The tale is this: 
June 1, 1794, Lord Howe encountered the 
French fleet off Ushant. Six ships were 
taken by the English admiral, and the 
victory was decisive: but Le Vengewr, 
although reduced to a mere hulk, refused 
to surrender, and, discharging a last 
broadside, sank in the waves, while the 
crew shouted ““ Vive la République!”’ 
The Convention ordered a medal to be 
struck with this legend—Le Triomphe 


__ Veni, Creator Spiritus 


1270. 


Venus 


du Vengeur. It is almost a pity that 
this thoroughly French romance should 
lack one important item—a grain of 
truth, The day of this victory is often 
called ‘‘The Glorious First of June.”’ 
The historic fact is, the ship sank, with 
the crew crying for help, which was 
readily given by the British foe. 
“ We'll show the haughty British race 
E: The Frenchman can such honour hoast— 
ἕ That when one Vengeur we have lost, 
Another hastes to take her place. 
F Translated by J, Oxenford. 
Veni, Crea'tor Spiritus. A hymn 
of the Roman Breviary used on the Feast 
of Pentecost. It has been ascribed to 
Charlemagne, but Mone thinks that Pope 
Gregory I. was the author. 


Veni, Sancte Spiritus. A Latin 
hymn in rhyme, ascribed to Robert, King 
of France ; also to Archbishop Langton. 


Veni, Vidi, Vici. It was thus that 
Julius Cesar announced to his friend 
Amintius his victory at Zela, in Asia 
Minor, over Pharna’cés, son of Mithri- 
da'tés, who had rendered aid to Pompey. 
(Plutarch.) 


Ve'nial Sin. One that may be par- 
doned; one that does not forfeit grace. 
In the Catholic Church sins are of two 
sorts, mortal and venial; in the Pro- 
testant Church there is no such distinc- 
tion ; but see Matt, xii. 31. 


Venice Glass. The drinking glasses 
of the Middle Ages, made at Venice, 
were said to break into shivers if poison 
were put into them. 

Doge. ‘’Tis said that our Venetian crystal has 
Such pure antipathy to poison, as F 

To burst, if aught of venom touches it.” 

Byron: The Two Foscari, v. 1. 

Venice glass, from its excellency, 
became a synonym for perfection. 


Venice of the West. Glasgow. 


“ Another element in the blazon of the ‘ Venice 
of the West’ isa fish laid across the stem of the 
tree, ‘in base,’ as the heralds say.”—J. H. Burton. 

Venison. Anything taken in hunt- 
ing or by the chase. Hence Jacob bids 
Esau to go and get venison such as he 
loved (Gen. xxvii. 3), meaning the wild 
kid. The word is simply the Latin 
vena’ tio (hunting), but is now restricted 
to the flesh of deer. 


Ven’om. The venom is in the tail. 
The real difficulty is the conclusion, 
The allusion is to the scorpion, which 
has a sting in its tail. 

The French say, “ It is always most 
difficult to flay the tail”? (C'est le plus 
difficile que W écorcher la queue). 


“Venomous Preacher (The). 
Robert Traill (1642-1716). 


Ventilate a Subject (70). To moot 
it, to throw it out for discussion that it 
may be winnowed or sifted. To ven- 
tilate a room is to let air and light into 
it, to drive away bad gases, etc. So in 
ventilating a subject, light is thrown on 
it, and all that is false, extraneous, or 
doubtful is blown away. 


Ventre-saint-Gris! The usual oath 
of Henri IV. About equal to ‘‘ Corpus 
Christi.”? A similar juron is ‘‘ Par le 
ventre de Dieu’? (Ventre-dieuw! or Ven- 
trebleu ἢ). Cris for Christ is familiarised 
by our common phrase “ the criss-cross 
or cris-cross row’’; and if saint refers 
to Christ we have a similar phrase in 
St. Saviour’s. Rabelais has ‘‘ Par sainct 
Gris’? ; and William Price, ‘‘ the Arch- 
Druid,’ who died in 1893, describes 
himself in the Wedical Directory as ‘‘ De- 
cipherer of the Pedigree of Jessu Grist.’’ 
Chaucer writes the word ‘ Crist.”” 


~ Mr. F. Adams has sent me two 
ὙΠΟΙΒΗΕΣ from the Romance of Huon de 

ordeau, from a MS. dated 1250— 

“ Abes, dist Karles, tort avés, par saint Crist.” 

- Ξ (Line 1,473.) 
“ Sire, dist Hues, tort ayes, par saint Crist.” 
(Line 2,218.) 
But a correspondent of Notes and Queries 
sends this quotation— 

“Ce prince [Henri IV.] avoit pris l’habitude 
d’employer cette expression, ‘ Ventre-saint-Gris,” 
comme une espece de jurement, Jorsqu’il étoit 
encore infant, ses gouverneurs craignant qu'il ne 
Ε΄ habitual ἃ jurer .. . lui avoient permis de dire 
‘Ventre-saint-Gris,’ qui étoit un terme derision 
quwils appliquoent aux Franciscans...de la 
couleur de leur habillements.’—Feb. 10th, 1894, 
p. 113. 

Ventril oquism, ‘“‘ speaking from the 
belly.’? From the erroneous notion that 
the voice of the ventriloquist proceeded 
from his stomach. The best that ever 
lived was Brabant, the ‘‘ engastrimist”’ 
of Francois I. (Latin, venter-loguor.) 


Venus. Love; the goddess of love; 
courtship. Copper was called Venus by 
the alchemists. (See APHRODITE.) 

“Venus smiles not in a house of tears.” 
Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet, iv. 1. 

Venus is the name of the second planet 
from the sun, and the nearest heavenly 
body to the earth except the moon. 

Statues of Venus. Themost celebrated 
statues of this goddess are the Venus de 
Medici, the Aphrodite of Praxit’elés, the 
Venus of Milo, the Venus Victorious of 
Cano’va, and the Venus of Gibson. 

Capitoline Venus (The). In the Capi- 
toline Museum of Rome. 


Venus 


1271 


Vera Causa 


Canova’s Venus is the most noted of 
modern sculpture. (1757-1822.) 

Ura'nian Venus of the Lusiad is the 
impersonation of heavenly love. She 
pleads to Destiny for the Lusians, and 
appears to them in the form of ‘‘ the 
silver star of love.’? Plato says she was 
the daughter of Heaven (U’ranos), and 
Xenophon acdds that ‘‘she presided over 
the love of wisdom and virtue, the 
pleasures of the sow/.’? ‘Nigidius says 
that this “heavenly Venus”’ was not born 
from the sea-foam, but from an egg 
which two fishes conveyed to the sea- 
shore. This egg was hatched by two 
pigeons whiter than snow, and gave 
birth to the Assyrian Venus, who in- 
structed mankind in religion, virtue, 
and equity. (See APHRODITE.) 

Venus in astrology ‘‘ signifiethe white 
men or browne. . . . joyfull, laughter, 
liberall, pleasers, dauncers, entertayners 
of women, players, perfumers, musitions, 
messengers of love.” 

“Venus loveth ryot and dispense.” 
Chaucer ; Canterbury Tules, 6,282. 

My Venus turns out a whelp (Latin), 
All my swans are changed to geese ; my 
cake is dough. In dice the best cast 
(three sixes) was called ‘‘ Venus,’”’ and 
the worst (three aces) was called ‘‘ Canis,”’ 
My win-all turns out to be a lose-all. 

The Island of Venus in the Lusiad 
is a paradisa’ical island raised by ‘‘ Di- 
vine Love,”’ asa reward for the heroes of 
the poem. Here Venus, the ocean-god- 
dess, gave her hand to Gama, and com- 
mitted to him the empire of the sea. It 
was situate ‘‘near where the bowers of 
Paradise are placed,’’ not far from the 
mountains of Ima‘us, whence the Ganges 
and Indus derive their source. This 
paradise of Love is described in the 
ninth book, 

*~ We have several parallel Edens, as 
the ‘‘gardens of Alcin’ous,’”’ in the 
Odyssey, bk. vii. ; the ‘‘ island of Cires,”’ 
Odyssey, x.; the ‘‘ Elysium” of Virgil, 
Aineid, vi.; the “island and palace of 
Alci‘na’’ or Vice, in Orlando Furioso, 
vi. vii.; the ‘country of Logistilla ’’ or 
Virtue, in the same epic, bk. x.; the 
description of ‘‘ Paradise,’’ visited by 
Astolpho, the English duke, in bk. 
xxxiv.; the ‘‘island of Armi’da,’’ in 
Tasso’s Jerusalem Delivered ; the ‘‘ bower 
of Acras‘ia,”’ in Spenser’s Fucrie Queene ; 
the ‘‘ palace with its forty doors,’’ the 
keys of which were entrusted to prince 
Agib, whose adventures form the tale of 
the ‘‘ Third Calendar,” in The Arabian 
Nights’ Entertainments, ete. HE, A, Poe 


calls Eden ‘‘ Aiden,’? which he rhymes 
with ‘“‘laden.” (Zhe Raven, 16.) (See 
VENUSBERG. ) 


Venus Anadyom’ene (6 syl.). Venus 
rising from the sea, accompanied by 
dolphins. 


Venus Genetrix. Worshipped at 
Rome, especially on April day, as the 
mother of /Enéas, and patroness of the 
Julian race. > 


Venus Victrix. Venus, as goddess 
of victory, represented on numerous 
Roman coins. 


Venus de Medicis, supposed to be 
the production of Cleom’enés of Athens, 
who lived in the second century before 
the Christian era. In the seventeenth 
century it was dug up in the villa of 
Hadrian, near Tivoli, in eleven pieces ; 
but it is all ancient except the right arm. 
It was removed in 1680, by Cosmo III., 
to the Imperial Gallery at Florence, 
from the Medici Palace at Rome, 

“ So stands the statue that enchants the world, 
So bending tries to veil the matchless boast, 
The mingled beauties of exulting Greece.” 

Thomson: Summer. 

Venus of Cnidus. The wnidraped 
statue of Praxit’eles (4 syl.) purchased 
by the ancient Cnidians, who refused to 
part with it, although Nicome’dés, King 
of Bithyn’ia, offered to pay off their 
national debt as a price for it. The 
statue was subsequently removed to 
Constantinople, and perished in the 
great fire during the reign of Justinian. 
(A.D. 80.) 

Praxiteles made also a draped statue of the 
same goddess, called the ** Venus of Cos.” 

Venus of Milo or Melos. The 
statue, with three of Hermés, was dis- 
covered in 1820 by Admiral Dumont in 
Milo or Melos, one of the Greek islands, 
whence its name. It now stands in the 
Louvre. 


Ve'nusberg.. The mountain of de- 
light and love, where Lady Venus holds 
her court. Human beings occasionally 
are permitted to visit her, as Heinrich 
von Limburg did, and the noble Tann- 
hauser (qg.v.) ; but as such persons run 
the risk of eternal perdition, Eckhardt 
the Faithful, who sat before the gate, 
failed not to warn them against entering. 
(German Legend: Children of Limburg, 
a poem. (1337.) (See Lhe Island of 
Venus.) 


Vera Causa. A cause in harmony 
with other causes already known. A 
fairy godmother may be assigned in story 
as the cause of certain marvellous effects, 


Verbatim et Literatim 


1272 


Vesper Hour 


but is not a vera causa. The revolution 
of the earth round the sun may be as- 
signed as the cause of the four seasons, 
and is a vera causa. 


Verba'tim et Litera‘tim. Accur- 
ately rendered, word for word and letter 
for letter. 


Verbum Sap. [4 word to the wise.| A 
hint is sufficient to any wise man; a 
threat implying if the hint is not taken 
I will expose you. (Latin, Verbum 
sapienti,) 

Verbum Sat. [4 word is enough.) 
Similar to the above. (Latin, Verdun 
sat [satienti}. A word to the wise is 
enough.) 


Ve're Adep’tus. One admitted to 
the fraternity of the Rosicrucians. 
“Tn Rosycrucian lore as learned 
As he the Vere-adeptus earned.” 
Butler : Hudibras. 
Verger. The officer in a church who 
carries the rod or mace, (Latin, verga, 
a wand.) 


Vernon, mentioned by Thomson in 
his Swnmer, was Admiral Edward Ver- 
non, who attacked Carthage’na in 1741 ; 
but the malaria reached the crew, and, 
as the poet says— 


“To infant weakness sunk the warrior’s arms.” 


Diana Vernon. An enthusiastic Roy- 
alist of great beauty and talent. (Sir 
Walter Scott : Rob Roy.) 


Verone’se (3 syl.). A native of 
Verona, pertaining to Verona, etc.; a 
Paul Veronese, Paul a native of Verona ; 
a Veronese fashion, and so on. 


Veronica. It is said that a maiden 
handed her handkerchief to our Lord on 
His way to Calvary. He wiped the sweat 
from His brow,returned the handkerchief 
to the owner, and went on. The hand- 
kerchief was found to bear a perfect 
likeness of the Saviour, and was called 
Vera-Tcowica (true likeness), and the 
maiden was ever after cailed St. Veron- 
ica. One of these handkerchiefs is pre- 
served at St. Peter’s church in Rome, 
and another in Milan cathedral. 


Versailles of Poland. The palace 
of the Counts of Braniski, which now 
belongs to the municipality of Bialystok. 


Versaillese (Zhe). The government 
troops, in the presidency of M. Thiers. 
The Communist troops were called the 
Federals, short for the ‘‘ Federated Na- 
tional Guards,”’ 


Versi Bernes'chi. Jocose poetry. 


So called from Francesco Berni, the 
Italian poet. (1490-1536.) 


Vert [green], in heraldry, signifies 
love, joy, and abundance. It is repre- 
sented on the shields of noblemen by the 
emerald, and on those of kings by the 
planet Venus. 


Φ In heraldry vert is symbolically ex- 
pressed by diagonal lines running from 
right to left of the shield. Lines run- 
ning the reverse way—i.¢. from left to 
right—mean purpure. 

N.B. English heralds vary escut- 
cheons by only seven colours, but foreign 
heralds employ nine colours. (Ace 
HERALDS.) 


Vertum'nus. The god of the seasons, 
who married Pomo’na. August 12th 
was his festival. (Roman mythology.) 


Ver’'ulam Buildings (London). So 
named in compliment to Lord Bacon, 
who was Baron Verulam and Viscount 
St. Albans. 


Vervain. Called ‘holy herb,’’ from 
its use in ancient sacred rites. Also 
called ‘‘ pigeons’ grass,’”’ ‘‘ Juno’s tears,’” 
and ‘‘simpler’s joy.’? Supposed to cure 
scrofula, the bite of rabid animals, to 
arrest the diffusion of poison, to avert 
antipathies, to conciliate friendships, and 
to be a pledge of mutual good faith ; 
hence it was anciently worn by heralds 
and ambassadors. (See ROODSELKEN.) 

Verbena is the botanical name. 

“The term Verbena (quasi herbena) originally 
denoted all those herbs that were held sacred on 
account of their being employed in the rites of 
sacrifice.’—Mill: Logic, book iv. chap. v. p. 485. 

Vesi'ca Piscis (Latin, fish-dladder). 
The ovoidal frame or glory which, in the 
twelfth century, was much used, espe- 
cially in painted windows, to surround 
pictures of the Virgin Mary and of our 
Lord. It is meant to represent a fish, 
from the anagram IcHTHUS. (See Nota- 
RICA.) 


Vesper Hour is said to be between the 
dog and the wolf; ‘betwixt and be- 
tween,” neither day nor night; a breed 
between the dog and wolf; too much 
day to be night, and too much night 
to be day. Probably the phrase was 
suggested by the terms ‘‘dog watch”’ 
(which begins at four), and ‘‘ dark as a 
wolf’s mouth,”’ 

Sicilian Vespers. Easter Monday, 
March 30, 1282. So called because John 
of Pro’cida on that day led a band of 
conspirators against Charles d’ Anjou and 
his French countrymen in Sicily. These 


Vesta! 


Frenchmen greatly oppressed the Sici- 
lians, and the conspirators, at the sound 
of the vesper bell, put them all to the 
sword without regard to age or sex. 

The Fatal Vespers. October 26th, 
1623. A congregation of some 300 per- 
sons had assembled in a small gallery 
over the gateway of the French am- 
bassador, in Blackfriars, to hear Father 
Drury, a Jesuit, preach. The gallery 
gave way, and about 100 of the congre- 
gation were precipitated into the street 
and killed. Drury and a priest named 
Redman were also killed. This accident 
was, according to the bigotry of the 
times, attributed to God’s judgment 
against the Jesuits. (Stow : Chronicles.) 
(See St. Luke xiii. 4.) 


Vesta, in Roman mythology, was the 
Home-goddess, called by the Greeks 
‘*Hestia.”’ She was custodian of the 
sacred fire brought by A‘néas from Troy. 
This fire was lighted afresh annually on 
March day, and to let it go out would 
have been regarded as ἃ national 
calamity. 


Vestal Virgin. A nun, a religieuse ; 
properly a maiden dedicated to the ser- 
vice of the goddess Vesta. ‘The duty of 
these virgins was to keep the fire of the 
temple always burning, both day and 
night. They were required to be of 
spotless chastity. (See IMMURING.) 


Veto (Monsiewr and Madame). Louis 
XVI. and Marie Antoinette. So called 
by the Republicans, because the Consti- 
tuent Assembly allowed the king to have 
the power of putting his veto upon any 
decree submitted to him. (1791.) 


Monsieur Veto swore he'd hide 
To the constitution true ; 

But he cast his oath aside, 
Teaching us the like to do. 


Madame Veto swore one day 

All the Paris rout to slay ; 

But we snapped the tyrant’s yoke, 
Turning all her threats to ane 


Vetturino [ Vettu-ree'no], in Italy, is 
one who for hire conveys persons about 
in a vet'tura or four-wheeled carriage ; 
the owner of a livery stable ; a guide for 
travellers. Thetwo latter are, of course, 
subsidiary meanings. 

“We were accosted in the steamer by a well- 
dressed man, who represented himself to be a 
vetturino.’—The Times (One of the Alpine Club). 

Via Doloro’sa. The way our Lord 
went to the Hall of Judgment, from the 
Mount of Olives to Golgotha, about a 
mile in length. 


Vial. Vials of wrath. Vengeance, 
the execution of wrath on the wicked. 


1273 


Vice 


The allusion is to the seven angels who 
pour out upon the earth their vials full 
of wrath. (Rev. xvi.) 


Viat‘icum (Latin). The Eucharist 
administered to the dying. The word 
means ‘‘ money allowed for a journey,” 
and the notion is that this sacrament 
will be the spirit’s passport to Paradise. 


Vie'ar. Rector, one who receives 
both great and small tithes. Vicar 
receives only the small tithes. At the 
Reformation many livings which be- 
longed to monasteries passed into the 
hands of noblemen, who, not being in 
holy orders, had to perform the sacred 
offices vica-riously. The clergyman who 
officiated for them was called their vicar 
or representative, and the law enjoined 
that the lord should allow him to receive 
the use of the glebe and all tithes except 
those accruing from grain (such as corn, 
barley, oats, rye, etc.), hay, and wood. 

The term Vicar is now applied to the 
minister of a district church, though he 
receives neither great nor small tithes ; 
his stipend arising partly from endow- 
ment, partly from pew-rents, and in 
part from fees, voluntary contributions, 
offerings, and so on. ‘The vicar of a 
pope is a Vicar-apostolic, and the vicar 
of a bishop is a curate or vicar in charge. 

A lay vicar is a cathedral officer who sings 
certain portions of the service. The Pope is 
called the “ Vicar of Christ.” 

Vicar of Bray (Zhe). Let who will 
be king, I will be vicar of Bray still. 
Brome says of Simon Alleyn that he 
“lived in the reigns of Henry VIII., 
Edward VI., Mary, and Elizabeth. In 
the first two reigns he was Protestant, 
in Mary’s reign he turned Papist, and 
in the next reign recanted—being re- 
solved, whoever was king, to die Vicar 
of Bray.’’ (1540-1588.) Others say it 
is Pendleton. 

Ray refers to Simon Symonds, a 
vicar who was Independent in the 
Protectorate, Churchman in the reign 
of Charles II., Papist under James IL., 
and Moderate Protestant under William 
and Mary, 

The well-known song, “1 will be Vicar 
of Bray,’’ was written by an officer in 
Colonel Fuller’s regiment. This vicar 
lived in the reigns of Charles II,, James 
II., William III., Anne, and George I. 


Vicar of Wakefield (Zhe). Dr. 
Primrose. 


Vice (1 syl.), in Old English morali- 
ties, was a buffoon who wore a cap with 
ass’s ears. 


Vice Versa 


1274 


Vincent de la Rosa 


Vi’ce Versa (Latin). The reverse; 
the terms of the case being reversed, 


Victor Emmanuel of Italy, called 
King Honest-Man, for his honest con- 
cessions to the people of constitutional 
freedom promised by his father and by 
himself in less prosperous circumstances. 


Vierge (2 syl.). A curious conversion 
in playing-cards occurs in reference to 
this word. The invention is Indian, and 
the game is called ‘‘ The Four Rajahs.”’ 
The pieces are the king, his general or 
Jierche, the elephant or phi/, the horse- 
men, the camel or rwvch, and the infantry. 
The French corrupted jierche (general) 
into ‘‘ vierge,”’ and then converted “ vir- 
gin”’ into dame. Similarly they corrupted 
phil into ‘ fol”’ or ““ fou ”’ (knave) ; ruch 
is our ‘‘rook.”? At one time playing- 
cards were called ‘‘the Books of the 
Four Kings,’’ and chess ‘‘ the Game of 
the Four Kings.’”? It was for chess, and 
not cards, that Walter Sturton, in 1278, 
was paid 8s. 5d., according to the ward- 
robe rolls of Edward L., “ ad opus regis 
ad ludendum adquatuor reges.’? Malkin 
said it was no great proof of our wisdom 
‘that we delighted in cards, seeing they 
were ‘‘invented for a 100]. Malkin 
referred to the vulgar tradition that 
cards were invented for the amusement 
of Charles VI., the idiot king of France ; 
but it was no proof that Jacquemin 
Gringonneur inverted cards because ‘‘ he 
painted and gilded three packs for the 
king in 1392.” ; 

View-holloa. The shout of hunts- 
men when a fox breaks cover = ‘‘Gone 
away!’’ (See SoHo, TALLY-HO.) 


Vignette (2 syl.) means properly a 
likeness having a border of vine-leaves 
roundit. (French, ‘‘little vine, tendril.’’) 


Vi/king. A pirate. So called from the 
vik or creek in which he lurked. The 
word is wholly unconnected with the 
word ‘‘king.”’ There were sea-kings, 
sometimes, but erroneously, called ‘ vi- 
kings,’’ connected with royal blood, and 
having small dominions on the coast, 
These sea-kings were often vikingr or 
vikings, but the reverse is not true that 
every viking or pirate was a sea-king. 
(Icelandic vikingr, a pirate.) 


Village Blacksmith (716). in Long- 
fellow’s poem, we are told in an 
American newspaper, was Henry Francis 
Moore, of Medford, Massachusetts, born 
1830, But as the Village Blacksmith 
was published in 1842, this is impossible, 


as Moore was not then twelve years of | 


age, and could not have had a grown-up 
daughter who sang in the village choir. 


Villain means simply one attached 
to a villa or farm. In feudal times the 
lord was the great landowner, and under 
him were a host of tenants called villains. 
The highest class of villains were called 
regardant, and were annexed to the 
manor ; then came the Coliberti or Burés, 
who were privileged vassals; then the 
Bord'arii or cottagers (Saxon, bord, a 
cottage), who rendered certain menial 
offices to their lord for rent; then the 
Coscets, Cottarii, and Cotmanni, who paid 
partly in produce and partly in menial 
service ; and, lastly, the villains in gross, 
who were annexed to the person of the 
lord, and might be sold or transferred as 
chattels. The notion of wickedness and 
worthlessness associated with the word is 
simply the effect of aristocratic pride and 
exclusiveness—not, as Christian says in 
his Notes on Blackstone, ‘‘a proof of the 
horror in which our forefathers held all 
service to feudal lords.’”? The French 
vilain seems to connect the word with 
vile, but it is probable that vile is the 
Latin vilis vile (of no value), and that the 
noun vilain is independent of vidlein, 
except by way of pun. (See CHEATER.) 

“Tam no villain [base-born]; Tam the youngest 
son of Sir Rowland de Boys ; he was my father, 
and he is thrice a villain [rascal] that says such a 
jJather begot villains [bastards).”—Shasespeare: 
As You Like It,i. 1. 

Villiers. Second Duke of Bucking- 
ham. (1627-1688.) 


Villoner. (French.) To cheat. Villon 
was a poet in the reign of Louis XI., but 
more famous for his cheats and villainies 
than for his verses. Hence the word 
villoner, ‘‘to cheat, to play a rogue’s 
trick.”? (Rabelais: Pantagruel, iv. 17; 
note by Molleux.) 


Vincent (St¢.). Patron saint of 
drunkards. This is from the proverb— 
“Tf on St. Vincent's Day [Jan. 22] the sky is clear, 

More wine than water will crown the year.” 

Vincent de la Rosa. The son of a 
poor labourer who had served as a 
soldier. According to his own account, 
«Ἢρ had slain more Moors than ever 
Tunis or Morocco produced; and as for 
duels, he had fought a greater number 
than ever Ganté had, or Luna either, 
or Diego Garcia de Paredez, always com- 
ing off victorious, and without losing a 
drop of blood.’ He dressed ‘‘ superbly,”’ 
and though he had but three suits, the 
villagers thought he had ten or a dozen, 
and more than twenty plumes of feathers. 
This gay young spark soon caught the 


Vindicate 


affections of Leandra, only child of an 
opulent farmer. The giddy girl eloped 
with him ; but he robbed her of all her 
money and jewels, and left her in a cave 
to make the best of her way home again. 
(Cervantes : Don Quixote, pt. i. iv, 20.) 


-Vin'dicate (3 syl.), to justify, to 
avenge, has aremarkableetymon. Vin- 
dicius was a slave of the Vitelli, who 
informed the Senate of the conspiracy of 
the sons of Junius Brutus to restore 
Tarquin, for which service he was re- 
warded with liberty (Livy, 11. 5) ; hence 
the rod with which a slave was struck in 
manumission was called vindicta, a Vin- 
dicius rod (sce MANumiIr) ; and to set free 
was in Latin vindica're in libertatem. 
One way of settling disputes was to give 
the litigants two rods, which they crossed 
as if in fight, and the person whom the 
pretor vindicated broke the rod of his 
opponent. These rods were called vin- 
dicie@, and hence vindicate, meaning to 
“justify.” To avenge is simply to 
justify oneself by punishing the wrong- 

oer. 


Vine (1 syl.). The Rabbins say that 
the fiend buried a lion, a lamb, and a 
hog at the foot of the first vine planted 
by Noah; and that hence men receive 
from wine ferocity, mildness, or wallow- 
ing in the mire. (See MipRASH.) 


Vinegar (Hannibal’s). Livy tells us 
that when Hannibal led his army over 
the Alps to enter Rome he used vinegar 
to dissolve the snow, and make the 
march less slippery. Of course this 
tradition is fabulous. Where did the 
vinegar come from? WNepos has left a 
short memoir of Hannibal, but says 
nothing about the vinegar. (Livy, B.c. 
59 to Α.Ὁ. 17; Nepos about the same 
time ; Hannibal, B.c, 247-183.) 


Vin'egar Bible. Printed at the 
Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1717. So called 
because it has the word vinegar instead 
of vineyard in the running head-line of 
Luke xxii. 


Vineyard Controversy. A paper 
war provoked by the Hon. Daines Bar- 
rington, who entered the lists to over- 
throw all chroniclers and antiquaries 
from William of Malmesbury to Samuel 
Pegge, respecting the vineyards of 
Domesday Book. He maintained that 
the vines were currants, and the vine- 
yards currant-gardens. 


Vi'no. Jn vino veritas. In wine is 
truth, meaning when persons are more 
or less intoxicated they utter many 


1275 


Violet 


things they would at other times conceal 
or disguise. (Latin.) 


Vin'try Ward (London). So called 
from the Vintry, or part occupied by the 
Vintners or wine-merchants from Bor- 
deaux, who anciently settled on this 
part of the Thames’ bank, They landed 
their wines here, and, till the 28th Edw. 
I., were obliged to sell what they landed 
within forty days. 


Vinum Theolog’icum, The best 
wine in the nation. Holinshed says it 
was so called because religious men 
would be sure ‘‘ neither to drinke nor be 
served of the worst, or such as was anie 
Waies vined by the vintner; naie, the 
merchant would have thought that his 
soule would have gone streightwaie to 
the devil if he would have served them 
with other than the best.”? (i. 282.) 


Violet, said to have sprung from the 
blood of Ajax; but how the blood of 
the mad boaster could produce this 
modest flower is past understanding. 
(Latin, viola ; Greek, iov.) 

“ As when stern Ajax poured a purple flood, 


The violet rose, fair daughter of his blood.” 
Dr. Young: The Instalment. 
Chemical test paper is steeped in syrup of 
violets ; used to detect acids and alkalis. If an 
acid is present, it will change the violet paper 
into red, an alkali will turn the paper green. 


Slips of white paper stained with the ee of 
violets (kept from the air) will serve the same 
purpose. Litmus and turmeric are also used for 
similar purposes. The paper should be unsized. 

Violet. The colour indicates the 
love of truth and the truth of love. Pugin 
says it is used for black in mourning and 
fasting. 

The violeé on the tyrant’s grave. 
(Tennyson: Aylmer’s Field.) The re- 
ference is to Nero’s grave. It is said 
that some unknown hand went by night 
and strewed violets over his grave. 
Eyen Nero had one who loved him. 
Lempritre states that the statues of 
Nero, at death, ‘‘were crowned with 
garlands of flowers.” 

“T would give you some violets, but 
they withered all when my futher died.”’ 
So says Ophelia to the Queen. The 
violet in flower-language is emblem- 
atical of innocence, and Ophelia says the 
King, the Queen, and even Hamlet him- 
self now he has killed Polonius, are 
unworthy of this symbol. Now m 
father is dead a// the violets are withered, 
all the court family are stained with 
blood-guiltiness. 

This entire posy may be thus para- 
phrased: Both you and I are under a 
spell, and there is ‘‘herb of grace’’ to 
disenchant us; there’s a “daisy”’ to 


Violet 


1276 


Virgil 


caution you against expecting that such 
wanton love as yours will endure long ; 
I would have given you a ‘‘ violet” if I 
could, but now that my father is killed 
all of you are blood-guilty. (Shake- 
speare : Hamlet, iv. 5.) 


Violet (Corporal). Napoleon Bona- 
parte. When Bonaparte was banished 
to Elba he told his friends he would 
return with the violets, and ‘‘ Corporal 
Violet’’ was the favourite toast of his 
partisans. When he broke his parole 
and reached Frejus, a gang of women 
assembled with violets, which were 
freely sold. The shibboleth was, ‘‘ Do 
you like violets?’’ If the answer given 
was ‘‘ Oui,” the person was known not 
to be a confederate ; but if the answer 
was ‘“‘ Eh bien,’ the respondent was 
recognised as an adherent. 


Violet-crowned City. Aristophinés 
calls Athens ἰοστέφανος (Hquités, 1323 and 
1329), and again in the Acharnians, 
637. Macaulay uses the phrase, ‘“ city 
of the violet crown.’’ Ion (@ violet) was 
a representative king of Athens, whose 
four sons gave names to the four Athe- 
nian classes; and Greece in Asia Minor 
was called ‘‘Ion-ia.” Athens was the 
city of Ion, crowned king, and hence 
the ‘‘ Ion crowned ”’ or violet-crowned, 

Similarly Paris is called the ‘‘ City of 
Lilies,” by a pun on the word Louis 
(‘ys, ἃ lily). 


Violin. The following musicians are 
very celebrated: Arcangelo Corelli, 
noted for the melodious tones he pro- 
duced (1653-1713); Pierre Gaviniés, 
native of Bordeaux, founder of the 
French school of violinists, noted for 
the sweetness of his tones (1722-1800) ; 
Nicolo Paganini, whose mastery over 
the instrument has never been equalled, 
especially known for his musical feats 
on one string (1784-1840); Gaetan 
Pugnani, of Turin, founder of the 
Italian school of violinists; his playing 
was ‘‘ wild, noble, and sublime’ (1727- 
1803); Giuseppe Tartini, of Padua, 
whose performance was plaintive but 
full of grace (1698-1770) ; G. B. Viotti 
of Piedmont, whose playing was noted 
for grandeur and audacity, fire and ex- 
citement (1753-1824). (See CREMONAS.) 

The best makers of violins. Gaspar di 
Salo (1560-1610); Nicholas Amati, of 
Cremona (1596-1684); Antonio Stradi- 
vari, his pupil (1670-1728); Joseph A. 
Guarneri (1683-1745). Almost equal. 
Joseph Steiner (1620 - 1667) ; Matthias 
Klotz (1650-1696). (See FIDDLE.) 


Vi'olon’. A temporary prison. Galig- 
nani says: ‘‘In the time of Louis XI. 
the Salle-de-Perdus was so full of tur- 
bulent clerks and students that the 
bailiff of the palace shut many up in the 
lower room of the conciergerie (prison) 
while the courts were sitting; but as 
they were guilty of no punishable offence, 
he allowed them a violin to wile away 
the tedium of their temporary cap- 
tivity.” 

M. Génin says the seven penitential 
psalms were called in the Middle Ages 
the psalte’rion, and to put one to pen- 
ance was in French expressed by mettre 
au psalterion, As the psaltery was an 
instrument of music, some witty French- 
man changed psalte’rion to violon, and 
in lieu of mettre au psalte'rion wrote 
mettre au violon. 

“A prisonnier et lui furent mis au salterion.” 

Antiquites Nativnales de Millin, iv. p. 6. 

Viper and File. The biter bit. 
JEsop says a viper found a file, and tried 
to bite it, under the supposition that it 
was good food; but the file said that 
its province was to bite others, and not 
to be bitten. (See SERPENT.) The viper 
of real life does not bite or masticate 
its food, but swallows it whole. 

“T fawned and smiled to plunder and betray, 
Myself betrayed and plundered all the while ; 
So gnawed the viper the corroding file.” 

Beattie: Minstrel. 

“Thus he realised the moral of the fable: the 
viper sought to bite the file, but broke his own 
teeth.”—The Times. 

Vir'gil. In the Gesta Romanorum 
Virgil is represented as a mighty but 
benevolent enchanter. ‘This is the char- 
acter that Italian tradition always gives 
him, and it is this traditional character 
that furnishes Dante with his conception 
of making Virgil his guide through the 
infernal regions. From the ne'id 
grammarians illustrated their rules, 
rhetoricians selected the subjects of their 
declamations, and Christians looked on 
the poet as half-inspired ; hence the use 
of his poems in divination, (See SoRTES 
VIRGILIANZE.) 

** Dante makes Virgil the personi- 
fication of hwmnan wisdom, Beatrice of 
that wisdom which comes of faith, and 
St. Bernard of spiritual wisdom. Virgil 
conducts Dante through the Inferno, 
Beatrice through Purgatory, and St. 
Bernard through Paradise. 

{| Virgil was wise, and as craft was 
considered a part of wisdom, especially 
over-reaching the spirits of evil, so he is 
represented by medizval writers as out- 
witting the demon. On one occasion, it 
is said, he saw an imp in a hole of a 


. Virgilius 


1277 


Vitellius 


mountain, and the imp promised to teach 
the poet the black art if he released him, 
Virgil did so, and after learning all the 
imp could teach him, expressed amaze- 
ment that one of such imposing stature 
could be squeezed into so small a rift. 
The imp said, ‘‘ Oh, that is not wonder- 
ful,” and crept into the hole to show 
Virgil how it was done, whereupon 
Virgil closed up the hole and kept the 
imp there. (Ken Schone Historie Van 
Virgilius, 1552.) 

This tale is almost identical with that 
of the Fisherman and the Genius in the 
Arabian Nights. The fisherman trapped 
in his net a small copper vessel, from 
which, when opened, an evil genius 
came out, who told the fisherman he 
had vowed to kill the person who re- 
leased him. The fisherman began to 
mock the genius, and declared it was 
quite impossible for such a monster to 
squeeze himself into so small a vessel. 
The genius, to convince the fisherman, 
metamorphosed himself into smoke and 
got into the vessel, whereupon the 
fisherman clapped down the lid and 
flung the vessel back into the sea. 

The Swiss tale of Theophrastus and the 
Devil is another analogous story. Theo- 
phrastus liberates the devil from a 
hollow tree, and the sequel is like those 
given above. (Gorres: Folksbucher, p. 
226.) 

** There are numerous tales of the 
devil outwitted. 

The Christian Virgil. Marco Giro- 
lamo Vida, author of Christias in six 
books, an imitation of the ne'id. 
(1490- 1566.) 

The Virgil and Horace of the Chris- 
tians. So Bentley calls Aur elius Clemens 
Prudentius, a native of Spain, who wrote 
Latin hymns and religious poems. (348-*.) 

Le Virgile au Rabot. (Au rabot is diffi- 
cult to render into English. ‘ Virgil 
with a Plane”’ is far from conveying the 
idea. ‘‘'The Virgil of Planers,”’ or ‘‘ The 
Virgil of the Plane,’’ is somewhat nearer 
the 1 meaning.) Adam Billaut, the poet- 
ical carpenter and joiner, was so called 
by M. Tissot, both because he used the 
plane and because one of his chief 
recueils is entitled Le Rabot. He is 
generally called Maitre Adam. His 
roaring Bacchanalian songs seem very 
unlike the Eclogues of Virgil, and the 
only reason for the title seems to be 
that Virgil was a husbandman and wrote 
on husbandry, while Billaut was a car- 
penter and wrote on carpentry. (*-1662.) 


Virgilius, Bishop of Salzburg, an 


Irishman, whose native name was Fear- 
gil or Feargal. He was denounced as a 
heretic for asserting the existence of 
antipodes. (Died 784.) (See ScIENCE.) 


Virgin. One of the constellations. 
(August 23rd to September 23rd.) 

Astrea, goddess of justice, was the 
last of the deities to quit our earth, and 
when she returned to heaven became 
the constellation Virgo. 
“When ἐς bright Virgin gives the beauteous 

day Thomson: Autumn. 

τος Mary’s Guard (171λε). The 
Scotch guard of France, organised in 
1448 by Charles VII. Louis XI. made 


the Virgin Mary their colonel, Dis- 
banded in 1830. 
Virgin Mary’s Peas (Zhe). Near 


Bethlehem are certain crystallisations in 
limestone so called. 


Virgin Queen (1712). 
beth (1533, 1558-1603). 


Virgins. The eleven thousand virgins 
of Cologne, according to the legend, were 
born at Bao’za in Spain, which contained 
only 12,000 families. The bones ex- 
hibited were taken from an old Roman 
cemetery, across which the wall of 
Cologne ran, and which were exposed 
to view after the siege in 1106. (See 
URSULA.) 


Virginal. An instrument used in 
convents to lead the virginals or hymns 
to the Virgin. It was a quilled key- 
board instrument of two or three octaves, 
common in the reign of Elizabeth. 


Queen Eliza- 


Virtuo’so. A man fond of virtu or 
skilled therein ; a dilettante. 


Vis Iner’'tize. That property of mat- 
ter which makes it resist any change. 
Thus it is hard to set in motion what is 
still, or to stop what is in motion. Figu- 
ratively, it applies to that unwillingness 
of change which makes men ‘ rather 
bear the ills they have than fly to others 
they know not of.”’ 


Vish’nu [Jnzdian]. The Preserver, 
who forms with Brahma and Siva the 
divine triad of the system of Hinduism. 

* Vishnu rides on an eagle; Brahma 
on a goose. 

Vital Spark of Heavenly Flame. 
(Pope.) Heracli'tus held the soul to be 
a spark of the stellar essence. (JMacro- 
bius : In Somniwm Scipionis, i. 14.) 

Vitellius. A glutton. So named 
from Vitellius the Roman emperor, who 


Vitex 1 


8 Voltaire 


took emetics after a meal that he might 
have power to swallow another. 


Vitex. Called Abraham’s balm, Agnus 
Castus, and the chaste-tree. In the lan- 
guage of flowers it means ‘‘ insensibility 
to love.’’ Dioscoridés, Pliny, and Galen 
mention the plant, and say that the 
Athenian ladies, at the feast of Ceres, 
used to strew their couches with vitex 
leaves as a palladium of chastity. In 
France a beverage is made of the leaves 
by distillation, and is (or was at one 
time) given to novitiates to wean their 
hearts from earthly affections. JVitea, 
from vico, to bind with twigs; so called 
from the flexible nature of the twigs. 


Vitru’vius. There were two Roman 
architects of this name. The one best 
known was Marcus Vitruvius Pollio, 
who wrote a book on architecture, 

The English Vitruvius. Inigo Jones 
(1572-1652). 


Vit'ulos. The scourgings which the 
monks inflicted on themselves during 
the chanting of the psalms, 


Vitus (54). St. Vitus’s dance, once 
widely prevalent in Germany and the 
Low Countries, was a ‘‘ dancing mania,’’ 
So ealled from the supposed power of 
St. Vitus over nervous and hysterical 
affections. 

“ At Strasbourg hundreds of folk began 
To dance and leap, both maid and man ; 
In open market, lane, or street, 
They skipped along, nar cared to eat, 
Until their plague had ceased to fright us. 


*Twas called the dance of holy Vitus.” 
Jan of Konigshaven (an old German chronicler). 


St. Vitus’s Dance. A description of the 
jumping procession on Whit-Tuesday to 
a chapel in Ulm dedicated to St. Vitus, 
is given in Notes and Queries, September, 
1856. (See TARANTISM.) 


Vi'va Vo'ce. Orally; by word of 
mouth. A viva voce examination is one 
in which the respondent answers by 
word of mouth. (Latin, ‘‘ with the liv- 
ing voice,’’) 

Viv’ien. A wily wanton in Arthur’s 
court ‘‘ who hated all the knights.’’ She 
tried to seduce ‘‘the blameless king,”’ 
and succeeded in seducing Merlin, who, 
“‘overtalked and overworn, told her his 
secret charm ’?’— 


“The which if any wrought on anyone 
With woven paces and with waving arms, 
The man so wrought on ever seemed to lie 
Closed in the four walls of a hollow tower, 
From which was no escape for evermore.” 


Having obtained this secret, the wan- 


ton “put forth the charm,’’ and in the 
hollow oak lay Merlin as one dead, 


‘lost to life, and use, and name, and 
fame.” (Tennyson: Idyls of the King ; 
Vivien.) 

Vixen. A female fox. Metaphorically, 
a woman of villainous and ungovernable 
temper. (Anglo-Saxon, 7.122.) 


Vixe're, ‘‘Vixere fortes ante Agamem- 
nona’’ (Horace), You are not the first 
great man that ever lived, though you 
boast so mightily. Our own age does 
not monopolise the right of merit. 


Viz. A contraction of videlicet. The 
z is a corruption of 3, a common mark 
of contraction in the Middle Ages; as 
hab3—i.e. habet; omnib3--i.e. omni- 
bus ; vi3—i.e. videlicet. 

Vogue (1 syl.). A French word. ‘‘In 
vogue’’ means in repute, in the fashion. 
The verb voguer means to sail or move 
forwards. Hence the idea of sailing 
with the tide. 


Vogue la Galére. Let the world go 
how it will; “ arrive qui pourra.” 


Vole. He has gone the vole—i.e. been 
everything by turns. Vole is a deal at 
cards that draws the whole tricks. The 
verb vole means to win all the tricks. 
Vole is a French word Laire la vole—i.e, 
“ Faire seul toutes les levées,” de voler— 
i.e. enlever, 

“Who is he [Edie Ochiltree] ? Why, he has gone 
the yvole—has been soldier, ballad-singer, travel- 
ling tinker, and now a beggar.”’—Sir W. Scott: The 
Antiquary, chap. iy. 

Volta'ic Battery. An apparatus 
for accumulating electricity. So called 
from Volta, the Italian, who first con- 
trived it. 

Voltaire. His proper name was 
Francois Marie Arouet. The word Vol- 
taire is simply an anagram of Arouet 
L. I. (le jeune). Thus have we Stella, 
Astrophel (q.v.), Vanessa and Cadenus 
(g.v.), and a host of other names in 
anagrams, 


Voltaire, the infidel, built the church 
at Ferney, which has this inscription: 
“Deo erexit Voltaire.’? Cowper alludes 
to this anomaly in the following lines : 


“ Nor he who, for the bane of thousands born 
Built God a church, and laughed His Word to 


scorn.” 
Voltaire. Dr. Young said of hin— 
“ Thou art so witty, profligate and thin, 
Thou seem’st a Milton, with his Death and Sin.” 
An excellent comparison between J’o/- 
taire and Gibbon is given by Byron in 
Childe Harold, canto 111. 106, 107. 
The German Voltaire. Johann Wolf 
gang von Goethe (1749-1838). 


Volume 1 


79 Wadman 


Christoph Martin Wieland (1733- 
13 


The Polish Voltaire. Ignatius Krasicki 
(1774-1801). 

Vol'ume (2 syl.). Avroll. Anciently 
books were written on sheets fastened 
together lengthwise and rolled; some 
were rolled on a pin or roller. The rolls 
were placed erect on shelves. Each one 
was labelled in red letters or rubrics. 
Rolls of great value were packed in 
cases or boxes. (Latin, volvo, to roll up.) 


Vox et Preterea Nihil. Echo; a 
threat not followed out. When the 
Lacedemonian plucked the nightingale, 
on seeing so little substance he ex- 
claimed, ‘* Vox tu es, et nihil preterea.”’ 
(φωνά tv τις ἐσσὶ, καὶ οὐδεν ἄλλο. Plut. 


Opp. Mor, Apophthegmata Laconica.) 


Vox Populi Vox Dei. This does 
not mean that the voice of the many is 
wise and good, but only that it is ir- 
resistible. You might as well try to 
stop the tide of the Atlantic as to resist 
the vox populi. As God’s laws cannot 
be withstood, neither can the popular 
will. After Edward II. had been de- 
throned by the people in favour of his 
son (Edward III.), Simon Mepham, 
Archbishop of Canterbury, preached 
from these words as his text, 


Vulcan. The divine blacksmith, 
whose workshop was on Mount Etna, 
where the Cyclops assisted him in forg- 
ing thunderbolts for Jove. He was also 
called Mulciber. 


Vulcan’s Badge. That of cuck- 
oldom. Venus was Vulcan’s wife, but 
her amour with Mars gave Vulcan the 
badge referred to. 


Vul'canised Indiarubber. India- 
rubber combined with sulphur by vul- 
canic agency or heat, by which means 
the caoutchoue absorbs the sulphur and 
becomes carbonised. 


Vul'canist. One who supports the 
Vulcanian or Plutonian theory, which 
ascribes the changes on the earth’s 
surface to the agency of fire. These 
theorists say the earth was once in a 
state of igneous fusion, and that the 
crust has gradually cooled down to its 
present temperature. 


Vulgar Errors, 

Aristotle taught that women have 
more teeth than men, 

From an account given in Genesis ii. 
21 it was once generally believed that a 
woman has one rib more than a man. 


It is a vulgar error to suppose that 
beetles and moles are blind. 

It is a vulgar error to suppose that 
lowly-organised animals are as sensible 
of pain as the highly-organised are. 

To exhaust the subject of vulgar errors 
would require many pages of this Dic- 
tionary. Every reader will be able to 
add to the few examples given above. 
(See Upas TREE.) 


VXL, a monogram on lockets, etc., 
stands for U XL (you excel). 


Ww 


Wa'bun. Son of Mudjekee’wis (North- 
American Indian), East-Wind,the Indian 
Apollo, Young and beautiful, he chases 
Darkness with his arrows over hill and 
valley, wakes the villager, calls the 
Thunder, and brings the Morning. He 
married Wabun-Annung (¢.v.), and 
transplanted her to heaven, where she 
became the Morning Star. (Longfellow : 
Hiawatha.) 


Wa'bung An’nung, in North Ameri- 
can Indian mythology, is the Morning 
Star. She was a country maiden wooed 
and won by Wabun, the Indian Apollo, 
who transplanted her to the skies, (Long- 
fellow: Hiawatha.) 


Wade (1 syl.), to go through watery 
places, is the Anglo-Saxon wad (a 
ford), wadan (to ford or go [througha 
meadow]). (See WEYD-MONAT.) 

General Wade, famous for his mili- 
tary highways in the Highlands, which 
proceed in a straight line up and down 
hill like a Roman road, and were made 
with a crown, instead of being lowest 
in the middle. 


* Had you seen but these roads before they were 
made, 
You would hold up your hands and bless General 
ade.’ 


Wade’s Boat, named Guin’gelot. 
Wade was a hero of medieval romance, 
whose adventures were a favourite theme 
in the sixteenth century. Mons. F. 
Michel has brought together all he could 
find about this story, but nevertheless, 
the tale is very imperfectly known. 


“ They can somoché craft of Wadés boot 
So moché broken harm whan that hem list, 
That with hem schuld I never lyy in rest.” 
haucer ; Canterbury Tales, 9,298. 
Wadham College (Oxford) was 
founded by Nicholas Wadham in 1613. 


Wad’man (Widow), A comely 
widow who tries to secure Uncle Toby 
for her second husband. Amongst other 


‘Wag Beards 


1280 


Waldemar’s Way . 


wiles she pretends that she has some- 
thing in her eye, and gets Uncle Toby to 
look for it; as the kind-hearted hero of 
Namur does so, the widow gradually 
places her face nearer and nearer the 
captain’s mouth, under the hope that 
he will kiss her and propose. (Sterne : 
Tristram Shandy.) 

Wag Beards (70). ‘‘’Tis merry in 
hall when beards wag all’’—i.e. when 
feasting goes on. 

τ amen was the minstrel’s harp with rapture 
whe sone of ancient days gave huge delight ; 

With pleasure too did wag the minstrel’s beard, 

For Plenty courted him to drink and bite.” 

Peter Pindar: Elegy to Scotland, 

Wages. Giles Moore, in 1659, paid 
his mowers sixteenpence an acre. In 
1711 Timothy Burrell, Esq., paid twenty- 
pence an acre ; in 1686 he paid Mary his 
cook fifty shillings a year; in 1715 he 
had raised the sum to fifty-five shillings. 
(Sussex Archeological Collections, 111, pp. 
163, 170.) 

“ For wages in the reign of Henry 
VIII., see preface of vol. i. Letters and 
Papers of the Reign of Henry VIIL, 
edited by J. S. Brewer, pp. 108-119. 

Wages of Sin (Zhe). To earn the 
wages of sin, To be hanged, or con- 
demned to death. 


“T believe some of you will be hanged unless 
you change a good deal. It’s cold blood and bad 
blood that runs in your veins, and you'll come to 
earn the wages of sin.—Boldrewood: Robbery 
under Arms, il. 

“The wages of sin is death.”—Rom. vi. 23. 


Wagoner. (Sve ΒΟΟΤΕΒ.) 


Waha’/bites (3 syl.). A Mahometan 
sect, whose object is to bring back the 
doctrines and observances of Islam to the 
literal precepts of the Aovan ; so called 
from the founder, Ibn-abd-ul- Wahab. 


Waifs and Strays. ‘ Waifs”’ are 
stolen goods, which have been waived or 
abandoned by the thief. ‘‘Strays”’ are 
domestic animals which have wandered 
from their owners and are lost tempora- 
rily or permanently. 

Waifs and strays of London streets. 
The homeless poor. 


Waistcoat. The M. B. waistcoat. 
The clerical waistcoat. (See M.B.) 


Waiters upon Providence. Those 
who cling to the prosperous, but fall 
away from decaying fortunes. 


“The side of the Puritans was deserted at this 
period by a numerous class of ... prudential 
persons, who never forsook them till they hecame 
unfortunate. These sagacious personages were 
called... Waiters upon Providence, and deemed 
it a high delinquency towards heaven to afford 
countenance to any cause longer than it was 
favoured by fortune,”—Sir W, Scott: Peveril of the 


Peak, chap, iy, 


Waits. Street musicians, who sere- 
nade the principal inhabitants at Christ- 
mas-time, especially on Christmas Eve. 
From Rymer’s Federa we learn it was 
the duty of musical watchmen ‘‘ to pipe 
the watch”’ nightly in the king’s court 
four times from Michaelmas to Shrove- 
Thursday, and three times in the sum- 
mer; and they had also to make “the 
bon gate’’ at every door, to secure them 
against ‘‘pyckeres and pillers.” They 
form a distinct class from both the watch 
and the minstrels. Oboes were at one 
time called ‘‘ waits.”’ 

“Dr. Busby says the word is a corruption of 
wayghtes, hauthoys, transferred from the instru- 
ments to the performers.’—Dictionary of Music. 

Wake (1 syl.). To keep vigils. 
(Anglo-Saxon, weccan.) <A vigil cele- 
brated with junketing and dancing. 

“Tt may, therefore, he permitted them [the 
Irish] on the dedication day, or other solemn days 
of martyrs, to make them bowers about the 
churches, and refresh themselves, feasting toge- 
ther after a good religious sort; killing their 
oxen now to the praise of God and increase of 
charity, Which they were wont before to sacrifice 
to the deyil.”"—Gregory the Great to Melitus [Meli- 
tus was an abbot who came over with St. Augus- 
tine}. 

“Waking a Witch.” Ifa ‘‘ witch”’ 
was obdurate, the most effectual way of 
obtaining a confession was by what was 
termed ‘‘ waking her.’’ For this pur- 
pose an iron bridle or hoop was bound 
across her face with four prongs thrust 
into her mouth. The ‘bridle’? was 
fastened behind to the wall by a chain 
in such a manner that the victim was 
unable to lie down; and in this position 
she was kept sometimes for several days, 
while men were constantly by to keep 
her awake. In Scotland some of these 
bridles are still preserved. 


Walbrook Ward (London) is so 
called from a brook which once ran along 
the west wall of Walbrook Street. 


Walcheren Expedition. A well- 
devised scheme, ruined by the stupidity 
of the agent chosen to carry it out. 
Lord Castlereagh’s instructions were ‘to 
advance instantly in full force against 
Antwerp,” but Lord Chatham wasted 
his time and strength in reducing Flush- 
ing. Ultimately, the red-tape ‘ In- 
capable ’’ got possession of the island of 
Walcheren, but 7,009 men died of ma- 
laria, and as many more were perma- 
nently disabled. 


Wal'demar’s Way. So the Milky 
Way is called in Denmark. This was 
Waldemar or Valdemar the Victorious, 
who substituted the Danebrog for the 
national banner of Denmark. 


Waldenses 


1281 


Walking Sword 


Walden’ses. So called from Peter 
Waldo, a citizen of Lyons, who founded 
a preaching society in 1176. 


Waldo, a copse between Lav’ant and 
Goodwood (Sussex), Same as weald. 
wold, wald, walt, ‘a wood.’’ (Anglo- 
Saxon.) The final ὁ is about equivalent 
to ‘‘ the,’’ as helo, the whole, i.e. health ; 
menegeo, the many—i.e, multitude, etc. 


Wales. The older form is Vealhas 
(plural of Wealth), an Anglo-Saxon word 
denoting foreigners, and applied by them 
to the ancient Britons; hence, also, 
Corn-wall, the horn occupied by the 
same ‘‘refugees.’”’ JW alschland isa Ger- 
man name for Italy ; Valais are the non- 
German districts of Switzerland; the 
parts about Liége constitute the Valloon 
country. The Welsh proper are Cimbri, 
and those driven thither by the Teutonic 
invaders were refugees or strangers. 
(See WALNUT.) 


Walk (in Hudibras) is Colonel Hew- 
son, so called from Gayton’s tract. 

To walk. 'This is a remarkable word, 
It comes from the Anglo-Saxon wealean 
(to roll) ; whence ewealcere, a fuller of 
cloth. In Percy’s Reliques we read— 

“ She cursed the weaver and the walker, 

The cloth that they had wrought.” 

To walk, therefore, is to roll along, as 
the machine in felting hats or fulling 
cloth, 


Walk Chalks. An ordeal used on 
board ship as a test of drunkenness. 
Two parallel lines being chalked on the 
deck, the supposed delinquent must walk 
between them without stepping on 
either, 


Walk Spanish. 170 make a man 
walk Spanish is to give him the sack ; to 
give him his discharge. In 1885 one of 
the retired captains in the Trinity House 
Establishment said, ‘If I had to deal 
with the fellow, I would soon make him 
walk Spanish, I warrant you.”’ 


Walk not in the Public Ways. 
The fifth symbol of the Protreptics of 
Iamblichus, meaning follow not the 
multitude in their evil ways; or, wide is 
the path of sin and narrow the path of 
virtue, few being those who find it. The 
‘‘public way ἢ is the way of the public 
or multitude, but the way of virtue is 
personal and separate. The arcana of 
Pythagoras were not for the common 
people, but only for his chosen or elect 
disciples. 


“ Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, 
but narrow is the path of truth and holiness,” 


81 


Walk the Plank (70). (Sce PLANK.) 


Walk through One’s Part (70). A 
theatrical phrase, meaning to repeat 
one’s part at rehearsal verbally, but 
without dressing for it or acting it. To 
do anything appointed you in a listless 
indifferent manner. 

“A fit of dulness, such as will at times creep 
over all the professors of the fine arts, arising 
either from fatigue or contempt of the present 
audience, or that caprice which tempts painters, 
musicians, and great actors ... to walk through 
their parts, instead of exerting themselves with 
the energy which acquired their fame.”—Sir W. 
Scott : Redgauntlet, chap. xix. 

Walker, a proper name, is gene- 
rally supposed to be wealcere, a fuller, 
but the derivation of ancient names 
from trades is to be received with great 
caution. It is far more probable that 
Walker is derived from the old High 
German walah, Anglo-Saxon wealh, a 
foreigner or borderer; whence Wallack, 
Walk, Walkey, Walliker, and many 
others. (See BREWER.) 

Helen Walker. The prototype of 
Jeanie Deans. Sir Walter Scott caused 
a tombstone to be erected over her grave 
in the churchyard of Irongray, stewartry 
of Kirkcudbright. In 1869 Messrs. A. 
and C. Black caused a headstone of red 
freestone to be erected in Carlaverock 
churchyard to the memory of Robert 
Paterson, the Old Mortality of the 
same novelist, buried there in 1801. 

Hookey Walker. John Walker was an 
outdoor clerk at Longman, Clementi, 
and Co.’s, Cheapside, and was noted for 
his eagle nose, which gained him the 
nickname of Old Hookey. Walker’s 
office was to keep the workmen to their 
work, or report them to the principals. 
Of course it was the interest of the em- 
ployées to throw discredit on Walker’s 
reports, and the poor old man was so 
badgered and ridiculed that the firm 
found it politic to abolish the office ; but 
Hookey Walker still means a tale not to 
be trusted. (John Bee.) 


Walker’s "Bus. 170 go by Walkev’s 
bus, to walk. Similarly, “ΤῸ go by the 
Marrowbone stage,’”’ “ΤῸ ride Shank’s 
pony.”’ 


Walking Gentleman (4), in theatri- 
cal parlance, means one who has little or 
nothing to say, but is expected to deport 
himself as a gentleman when before the 
lights. 


Walking Sword (4). A short, light 
sword, when long swords wielded by two 
hands were in use. (See Sir W. Scott’s 
Abbot, chap. xx.) 


Walkyries 


1282 


> Walnut 


Walkyries (Zc). (See VALKYRIES.) 


Wall (Zhe), from the Tyne to Boul- 
ness, on the Solway Firth, a distance of 
eighty miles. Called— 

The Roman Wall, because it was the 
work of the Romans. 

Agricola’s Wall, because Agricola 
made the south bank and ditch. 

Hadrian’s Wall, because Hadrian 
added another vallum and mound paral- 
lel to Agricola’s. 

The Wall of Sevérus, because Severus 
followed in the same line with a stone 
wall, having castles and turrets. 

The Picts’ Wall, because its object 
was to prevent the incursions of the 
Picts. 

The wall of Antoninus, now called 
Graeme’s Dyke, from Dunglass Castle on 
the Clyde to Blackness Castle on the 
Forth, was made by Lollius Urbicus, 
legate of Antoninus Pius, A.p. 140. It 
was a turf wall. 


Wall. 170 give the wall. Nathaniel 
Bailey’s explanation of this phrase is 
worth perpetuating. He says it is “ἃ 
compliment paid to the female sex, or 
those to whom one would show respect, 
by letting them go nearest the wall or 
houses, upon a supposition of its being 
the cleanest. This custom,’ he adds, ‘‘is 
chiefly peculiar to England, for in most 
parts abroad they will give them the 
right hand, though at the same time 
they thrust them into the kennel.’’ 

10 take the wall. Yo take the place of 
honour, the same as to choose ‘‘ the 
uppermost rooms at feasts.’’ (Matt. xxiii. 
6.) At one time pedestrians gave the 
wall to persons of a higher grade in 
society than themselves. 

“T will take the wall of any man or maid of 
Montague’s.”—Shakespeawre: Romeo and Juliet, i. 1, 

To go to the wall. To be put on one 
side; to be shelved. This is in allusion 
to another phrase, ‘‘ Laid by the wall”’ 
—i.e. dead but not buried; put out of 
the way. 

To hang by the wall. To hang up 
neglected ; hence, not to be made use of. 
(Shakespeare : Cymbeline, iii. 4.) 


Wall-eyed properly means ‘“ with- 
ered-eyed.’’? Persons are wall-eyed when 
the white is unusually large, and the 
sight defective ; hence Shakespeare has 
wall-eyed wrath, wall-eyed slave, ete. 
When King John says, ‘‘ My rage was 
blind,” he virtually says his “ wrath was 
wall-eyed.’? (Saxon, hwelan, to wither. 
The word is often written whall-eyed, or 
whallied, from the verb whally.) 


Walls have Ears. The Louvre was 
so constructed in the time of Catherine 
de Medicis, that what was said in one 
room could be distinctly heard in an- 
other. It was by this contrivance that 
the suspicious queen became acquainted 
with state secrets and plots. The tubes 
of communication were called the auri- 
culaires, and were constructed on the 
same principle as those of the con- 


fessionals. The ‘‘Ear of Dionysius’’ 
communicated to him every word 
uttered in the state prison. (Sce 


SPEAKING Heaps, 9.) 
Wallace’s Larder. 


Wallflower. So called because it 
grows on old walls and ruined buildings. 
10 is a native plant. Similarly, wadl- 
cress, wall-creeper, ete., are plants which 

row on dry, stony places, or on walls. 
Wall-fruit is fruit trained against a 
wall. (See WALNUT.) 

Herrick has a pretty fancy on the 
origin of this flower. A fair damsel was 
long kept in durance vile from her lover ; 
but at last 4 

“Up she got ΡΟΝ ἃ wall, 
‘Tempting down to slide withal ; 


But the silken twist untied, 
So she fell, and, bruised, she died. 


“Love, in pity of the deed, 
And her loving luckless speed, 
Turned her to this plant we call 
Now the ‘ Flower of the wall.’ ” 
Young ladies who sit out against the 
wall, not having partners during a dance, 
are called ‘‘ wallflowers.”’ 


(See LARDER.) 


Walioons. Part of the great Romaic 
stock. They occupied the low track 
along the frontiers of the German- 
speaking territory, as Artois, Hainault, 
Namur, Litge, Luxemburg, with parts 
of Flanders and Brabant. (See WALEs.) 

“The Wallons...are the Romanised Gauls, 
lineal representatives of the ancient Belgie.’— 
Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. XXi. p. 332. 

Wallop. To thrash. Sir John 
Wallop, in the reign of Henry VIIL., 
was sent to Normandy to make repri- 
sals, because the French fleet had burnt 
Brighton. Sir John burnt twenty-one 
towns and villages, demolished several 
harbours, and ‘‘ walloped”’ the foe to his 
heart’s content. 


Wallsend Coals. Originally from 
Wallsend, on the Tyne, but now from 
any part of a large district about New- 
castle. 


Walnut [foreign nut]. It comes 
from Persia, and is so called to distin- 
cuish it from those native to Europe, as 


Walnut Tree 


1283 


Wandering Jew 


hazel, filbert, chestnut. (Anglo-Saxon, 
walh, foreign ; hnutu, nut.) 


“Some difficulty there isin cracking the name 
thereof. Why wallnuts, having no affinity to a 
wall, should be so called. The truth is, gual or 
wall in the old Dutch signifieth ‘strange’ or 
‘exotic’ (whence Welsh. foreigners) ; these nuts 
being no natives of England or Europe, but 
probably first fetched from Persia, and called by 
the French nua persique.’"—Fuller: Worthies of 
England. 


Walnut Tree. It is said that the 
walnut tree thrives best if the nuts are 
beaten off with sticks, and not gathered. 
Hence Fuller says, ‘‘ Who, like a nut 
tree, must be manured by beating, or 


else would not bear fruit’? (bk. 1]. 
ch. 11). The saying is well known 
that— 


“A woman, ἢ spaniel, and a walnut tree, 

The more you beat them the better they be.” 
Taylor, the Water-Poet. 

Walpurgis Night. The eve of 
May Day, when the old pagan witch- 
world was supposed to hold high revelry 
under its chief on certain high places. 
The Brocken of Germany was a favourite 
spot for these revelries. 

Walpurgis was a female saint con- 
cerned in the introduction of Christianity 
into Germany. She died February 25th, 
779. 

“We changed hands, and whisked and rioted 
like a dance of Walpureis in his Jonely brain.”— 
J. S. Le Funu: The House in the Churchyard, 
p. 109. 

Walston (S7.). A Briton who gave 
up all his wealth, and supported himself 
by manual husbandry. Patron saint of 
husbandmen ; usually depicted with a 
scythe in his hand, and cattle in the 
background. Died mowing, 1016. 


Walter Multon, Abbot of Thornton- 
upon-Humber, in Lincolnshire, was 
immured in 1443. In 1722, an old wall 
being taken down, his remains were 
found with a candlestick, table, and 
book. Stukeley mentions the fact. In 
1845 another instance of the same kind 
was discovered at Temple Bruer, in 
Lincolnshire. 


Waltham Blacks. (Sve Buack Act.) 


Walton. An Izaak Walton. One 
devoted to ‘‘ the gentle craft”’ of angling. 
Izaak Walton wrote a book called Zhe 
Complete Angler, or Contemplative Man's 
Reereation. (1655.) 

~ “Gentle”? is a pun. Gentles are 
the larve of flesh-flies used as bait in 
angling. 

Walton Bridle (716). The ‘ gos- 
sip’s or scold’s bridle.’? One of these 
bridles is preserved in the vestry of the 
church of Walton-on-Thames. Iron 


bars pass round the head, and are fas- 
tened by a padlock. In front, a flat 
piece of iron projects, and, this piece of 
iron being thrust into the mouth, effectu- 
ally prevents the utterance of words. 
The relic at Walton is dated 1633, and 
the donor was a person named Chester, 
as appears from the inscription : 

“Chester presents Walton with a bridle 

To curb women’s tongues that talk too idle.” 

*t It is also called a “‘ brank.’’ (Teu- 
tonic, pranque, ‘a bridle.'’) 


Wam’'ba. Son of Witless, and jester 
of Cedric ‘‘ the Saxon,’’ of Rotherwood. 
(Sir Walter Scott - Ivanhoe.) 


Wan means thin. (Anglo-Saxon, 
wan, ‘‘deficient’?; our wane, as the 
“waning moon.’’) As wasting of the 
flesh is generally accompanied with a 
grey pallor, the idea of leanness has 
yielded to that of the sickly hue which 
attends it. (Verb wan-ian, to wane.) 


Wand. The footman’s wand. (See 
under RUNNING FooTMeEN.) 


Wandering Jew. 

(1) Of Greek tradition. Aris'teas, a 
poet who continued to appear and dis- 
appear alternately for above 400 years, 
and who visited all the mythical nations 
of the earth. 

(2) Of Jewish story. Tradition says 
that Kartaph’ilos, the door-keeper of the 
Judgment Hall, in the service of Pontius 
Pilate, struck our Lord as he led Him 
forth, saying, ‘‘ Go on faster, Jesus”’ ; 
whereupon the Man of Sorrows replied, 
“T am going, but thou shalt tarry till 
Tcome again.”’? (Chronicle of St. Alban’s 
Abbey ; 1228.) 

τὴ The same Chronicle, continued by Matthew 
Paris, tells us that Kartaphilos was baptized by 
Ananias, and received the name of Joseph. At 
the end of every hundred years he falls into a 
trance, and wakes up a young man about thirty. 

Another legend is that Jesus, pressed 
down with the weight of His cross, 
stopped to rest at the door of one 
Ahasue’rus, a cobbler. The craftsman 
pushed him away, saying, ‘‘Get off! 
Away with you,away!’’ Our Lord re- 
plied, “Truly I go away, and that 

uickly, but tarry thou till I come.”’ 
Scebece has a poem entitled Ahasuer 
(the Wandering Jew). (Paul von Kitzen ; 
1547.) 

A third legend says that it was Ana- 
nias, the cobbler, who haled Jesus before 
the judgment seat of Pilate, saying to 
Him, ‘‘ Faster, Jesus, faster !’’ 

(3) In Germany the Wandering Jew is 
associated with John Buttadzeus, seen 
at Antwerp in the thirteenth century, 


Wandering Willie 


1284 


Ward 


again in the fifteenth, and a third time 
in the sixteenth. His last appearance 
was in 1774 at Brussels. Signor Gualdi 
about the same time made his appear- 
ance at Venice, and had a portrait of 
himself by Titian, who had been dead at 
the time 130 years. One day he dis- 
appeared as mysteriously as he had 
come. (Turkish Spy, vol. ii.) 

(4) The French call the Wandering Jew 
Isaac Laquedem, a corruption of Lake’- 
dion. (Mitternacht Diss. in Jno. xxi. 19 ; 
1640.) 

Wandering Jew. Salathiel ben Sadi, 
who appeared and disappeared towards 
the close of the sixteenth century, at 
Venice, in so sudden a manner as to 
attract the notice of all Europe. Croly 
in his novel called Sa/athie/, and Southey 
in his Curse of Kehama, trace the course 
of the Wandering Jew, but in utter 
violation of the general legends. In 
Eugene Sue’s Le Juif Errant, the Jew 
makes no figure of the slightest import- 
ance to the tale. 

The Wandering Jew. Alexandre Du- 
mas wrote a novel called Jsaae Laquedem. 

Sieur Emmerch relates the legend. 

Ed. Grenier has a poem on the sub- 
ject, La Mort du “μὰ Errant, in five 
cantos. 

Halévy has an opera on the same 
subject, words by Scribe. 

Doré has illustrated the legend. 


Wandering Willie or Willie Steen- 


son. The blind fiddler who tells the tale 
of Redgauntlet. (Sir Walter Scott: 
Redgauntlet. 


Wandering Wood, in book i. of 
Spenser’s Faerie Queene, is where St. 
George and Una encounter Error, who 
is slain by the knight. Una tries to 
persuade the Red Cross knight to leave 
the wood, but he is self-willed. Error, 
in the form of a serpent, attacks him, 
but the knight severs her head from her 
body. The idea is that when Piety will 
not listen to Una or Truth, it is sure to 
get into ‘‘ Wandering Wood,’’ where 
Error will attack it; but if it listens 
then to Truth it will slay Error. 


Wans Dyke, Sir Richard Colt Hoare 
tells us, was a barrier erected by the 
Belge against the Celts, and served as a 
boundary between these tribes. Dr. 
Stukeley says the original mound was 
added to by the Anglo-Saxons when they 
made it the boundary-line of the two 
kingdoms of Mercia and Wessex. It was 
also used by the Britons as a defence 
against the Romans, who attacked them 


from the side of Gloucestershire and 
Oxfordshire. 

In its most perfect state it began at 
Andover, in Hampshire, ran through the 
counties of Berkshire, Wiltshire, and 
Somersetshire, and terminated in the 
κε Severn Sea’’ or Bristol Channel. It 
was called Wodenes Dyke by the Saxons, 
contracted into Wondes-dyke, and cor- 
rupted to Wans-dyke, as Wodenes-deg 
isinto Wed'nes-day. (See Wat’s DYKE.) 


Want or Went. A road. Thus ‘the 
four-want way,’’ the spot where four 
roads meet. Chaucer uses the expression 
‘‘a privie went’’ (private road), ete. 

Wants, meaning ‘‘ gloves.”” Accord- 
ing to the best Dutch authorities, the 
word is a corruption of the French gant, 
Italian guanto, our ‘‘ gauntlets.”’ 

“Wanten are worn by peasants and working 
people when the weather is cold, They are in shape 
somewhat like boxing-gloves, having only a 
thumband ne fingers. They are made of a coarse 
woollen stuff."—Teding von Berkhout: Letter from 
Breda. 


Wantley. (See Dracon.) 


Wa'pentake. A division of York- 
shire, similar to that better known as a 
hundred. The word means ‘‘touch- 
arms,’’ it being the custom of each vassal, 
when he attended the assemblies of the 
district, ‘‘ to touch the spear of his over- 
lord in token of homage.’’ Victor Hugo, 
in his novel of LZ’ Homme qui Rit, calls a 
tipstaff a ‘‘ wapentake.’? (Anglo-Saxon, 
wapen, arms; tacan, to touch.) 


Wapping Great means astonish- 
ingly great. (Anglo-Saxon, wafian, to 
be astonished ; wafwng, amazement.) A 
‘‘wapper ” is a great talsehood. 


War of the Meal-sacks. After the 
battle of Beder, Abu Sofian summoned 
two hundred fleet horsemen, each with 
a sack of meal at his saddle-bow (the 
scanty provision of an Arab for a foray), 
and sallied forth to Medi’na. Mahomet 
went forth at the head of a superior 
force to meet him, and Abu Sofian with 
his horsemen, throwing off their meal- 
sacks, fled with precipitation. 


War of the Roses. (Sce RosEs.) 


Ward. A district under the charge 
of a warden. The word is applied to the 
subdivisions of Cumberland, Westmore- 
land, and Durham, which, being con- 
tiguous to Scotland, were placed under 
the charge of lord wardens of the 
marches, whose duty it was to protect 
these counties from inroads, (See Hun- 
DRED.) 


Ward 


Ward (47"temus). 
WARD.) 


Ward Money, Ward-penny, or 
Wardage. Money paid for watch and 
ward. (Domesday.) 


Warden-pie. Pie made of the 
Warden pear. Warden pears are so 
called from Warden Abbey, Berks, where 
they are grown in great profusion. 


“Myself with denial I mortify 
With a dainty bit of a Warden-pie.” 
The Friar of Orders Grey. 


Ware. (Sce BED.) 
War'lock. 


(See ARTEMUS 


A wandering evil spirit ; 
a wizard. (Anglo-Saxon, wer-loga, a 
deceiver, one who breaks his word, 
Satan is called in Scripture ‘‘ the father 
of lies,’’ the arch-warlock.) 


Warm Reception (4). A hot oppo- 
sition. Also, a hearty welcome. 

“The Home Rule members are prepared to give 
the Coercion Billa warm reception ; Mr. Parnell’s 
followers will oppose it tooth and nail.”—Neuvs- 
pauper paragraph, May 19th, 1885. 

Warm asa Bat. Hot as burning 
coal. In South Staffordshire that slaty 
coal which will not burn, but which lies 
in the fire till it becomes red-hot, is 
called ““ bat.”’ 


Warming-pan (4). One who keeps 
a place warm for another, 1.6. holds it 
temporarily for another. The allusion 
is to the custom in public schools of 
making a fag warm his ‘‘superior’s’”’ bed 
by lying in it till the proper occupant 
was ready to turn him out. 


“If Mr, Mellor took a judgeship, Grantham 
might object to become a warming-pan for am- 
bitious lawyers.’— Newspaper paragraph, March 
5th, 1885. 


Warming-pan. (Svc JACOBITES.) 


Warning Stone. Anything that 
gives notice of danger. Bakers in Wilt- 
shire and some other counties used to 
put a ‘‘certain pebble” in their ovens, 
and when the stone turned white it gave 
the baker warning that the oven was hot 
enough for his bakings. 


Warp (170). A sea term, meaning to 
shift the position of a vessel. This is 
done by means of a rope called a warp. 
Kedging is when the warp is bent to a 
kedge, which is let go, and the vessel is 
hove ahead by the capstan. 


“The potent rod 

Of Amram’s son [Moses], in Egypt's evil day, 
Wayed round the coast, up-called a pitchy cloud 
Of locusts, warping [shifting about] in the eastern 

wind.” Milton: Paradise Lost, i. 338. 

In Lancashire, warping means lay- 
ing eggs; and boys, on finding a bird’s 
nest, will ask—‘‘ And how many eggs 
has she warped ?”’ 


1285 


Wassailers 


Warp and Weft, or Woof. The 
‘warp ’’ of a fabric are the longitudinal 
threads; the ‘‘weft’’ or ‘‘ woof’ are 
threads which run from selvage to sel- 
vage. 

“ Weave the warp and weave the woof, 
The winding-sheet of Edward's race ; 
Give ample room and verge enough 


The characters of hell to trace.” 
Gray: The Bard. 


Warrior Queen (716). Boadicea, 
Queen of the Iceni. 


“When the British warrior queen, 

Bleeding from the Roman rods, 

Sought, with an indignant mien, 
Counsel of her country’s gods.... 
Cowper: Boadicea. 


The Iceni were the faithful allies of 
Rome; but, on the death of Prasutagus, 
king of that tribe, the Roman procurator 
took possession of the kingdom of Prasu- 
tagus; and when the widow Boadicea 
complained thereof, the procurator had 
her beaten with rods like a s'ave. 

Warwick. (Anglo-Saxon, wer-wie, 
contracted from wering-wie (the forti- 
fied or garrisoned town). A translation 
of the ancient British name Cacr Leon. 


Warwick Lane (City). The site of 
a magnificent house belonging to the 
famed Beauchamps, Earls of Warwick. 


Warwolf, (Sve WERWOLF.) 


Washed Out (J am thoroughly). I 
am thoroughly exhausted or done up; I 
have no strength or spirit left in me. 


Washing. /JVash your dirty linen at 
home (French). The French say the 
English do not follow the advice of 
washing their dirty linen en famille— 
meaning that they talk openly and 
freely of the faults committed by min- 
isters, corporations, and individuals, All 
may see their dirty linen; and as for its 
washing, let it be but washed, and the 
English care not who has the doing of 
it. Horace (2 Ep., i. 220) says, ‘‘ Vine'ta 
egomet eadam mea”? (I do my own wash- 
ing at home). Though the French assert 
that we disregard this advice, we have 
the familiar proverb, ‘‘It is an ill bird 
that fouls its own nest.” 

Washington of Columbia. 
Bolivar (1783-1831). 

Was’sail (2 syl.). A salutation used 
on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s 
Day over the spiced-ale cup, hence 
called the “‘wassail bowl.”? (Anglo- 
Saxon, IVs hel, be whole, be well.) 


Wassailers. Those who join a was- 
sail; revellers, drunkards. 
“T should be loath _ ¢ 
To meet the rudeness and swilled insolence 


Of such late wassailers.” 
Milton: Comus (The Lady). 


Simon 


Wastlers 


1286 


Water 


Wastlers. Wandering musicians ; 
from waestle, to wander. The earol- 
singers in Sussex are called wastlers. 


Wat. A familiar name for a hare, 
“ By this, poor Wat, far off upon a hill, . 
Stands on his hinder legs, with listening ear.” 
Shakespeare : Venus and Ad: nis. 

Wat’s Dyke (Flintshire). A corrup- 
tion of Wato’s Dyke. Wato was the 
father of Weland, the Vulcan of North- 
ern mythology, and the son of King 
Vilkinr by a mermaid. This dyke ex- 
tends from the vicinity of Basingwerk 
Abbey, in a south-easterly direction, 
into Denbighshire. The space between 
it and Offa’s Dyke, which in some parts 
is three miles, and in others not above 
500 yards, is neutral ground, ‘‘ where 
Britons, Danes, and Saxons met for com- 
mercial purposes.’’ (See WAN’s DYKE.) 

“ There is a famous thing 
Called Offa's Dyke, that reacheth far in length, 
All kinds of ware the Danes might thither bring ; 
It was free ground, and called the Briton’s 

strength. 

Wat's Dyke, likewise, about the same was set, 
Between which two both Danes and Britons met, 
And trafic still. 

Churchyard : Worthiness of Wales (1587). 

Watch Night. December 31st, to see 
the Old Year out and the New Year in 
by a religious service. John Wesley 
grafted it on the religious system, but 
it has been followed by most Christian 
communities. 

“Southey in his biography of the evangelist 
(Wesley) denounces watclhi-night as another of 
Wesley's objectionable instiputions.”’—Nolting- 
ham Guardian, January 1, 1895, p. 5. 

Watch on Board Ship. There are 
two sorts of watch—the /ong watch of 
four hours, and the dog watch of two, 
from 4 to 6; but strictly speaking a watch 
means four hours. The dog watches are 
introduced to prevent one party always 
keeping watch at the same time. (Sve 
Wo tr, Between dog and wolf, Ἰ)οα- 
WATCH.) 


15 to 4p.m. Afternoon watch. 


4to 6 , First dog-watch. 
6to 8 ,, Second dog-watch, 
8tol2 ,, First night watch. 


12to 4a.m. Middle watch. 
4to 8 ,, Morning watch. 
8tol2 Forenoon watch. 


There are two divisions which perform duty 
alternately—the starboard watch and the port 
watch, The former is called the captain's watch 
in the merchant service, often under the com- 
mand of the second mate; the port watch is 
under the command of the first mate. 


The Black Watch. The gallant 42nd, 
linked with the 73rd, now called the 
Royal Highlanders, The 42nd was the 
first corps raised for the royal service in 
the Highlands. Their tart’an (1729) 
consisted of dark blue and dark green, 
and was called black from the contrast 


which their dark tartans furnished to the 
scarlet and white of the other regiments. 


Watch’et. Sky-blue. (Anglo-Saxon, 
waadchet, probably dye of the woad 
plant.) 


Water. (See Danctna WA7ER.) 

The Father of Waters. The Missis- 
sippi (Indian, Miche Sepe), the chief 
river ot North America. The Missouri 
. its child, The Irrawaddy is so called 
also, 


Water. Blood thicker than 
(See under BLooD.) 

Court holy water. Fair but empty 
words, In French, ‘‘Eau bénite de cour.” 

In deepwater. In difficulties ; in great 
perplexity. 

lt makes my mouth water. It is very 
alluring; it makes me long for it. 
Saliva is excited in the mouth by strong 
desire. The French have the same 
one “Cela fait venir Peau ἃ la 
ouche.”? 

More water glideth by the mill than 
wots the miller of (Titus Andronicus, ii. 
1). The Scotch say, ‘‘ Mickle water 
goes by the miller when he sleeps.” 
(See under MILLER.) 

Oer muckle water drowned the miller. 
(See DROWN THE MILLER.) The weaver, 
in fact, is hanged in his own yarn. The 
French say, ‘‘ Un embarras de richesse.” 

Of the first water, Of the highest 
type; very excellent. (See wider ὍΤΑ - 
MOND.) 

Smooth water runs deep. Deep thinkers 
are persons of few words ; barking dogs 
do not bite. ‘There are two or three 
French proverbs of somewhat similar 
meaning. For example: ‘‘ En eau en- 
dormie point ne se fe;”’ again, “ L’ean 
qui dort est pire que celle qui court.” 
A calm exterior is far more to be feared 
than a tongue-doughty Bobadil, 

The modest water saw its God and 
blushed. The allusion is to Christ’s 
turning water into wine at the marriage 
feast. Richard Crashaw (1670) wrote 
the Latin epigram in pentameter verse. 

“Nympha pudica Deum vidit et erubuit.” 

To back water. To row backwards in 
order to reverse the forward motion of a 
boat in rowing. 

To carry water to the river, To carry 
coals to Newcastle. In French, ‘‘ Porter 
de Veau ἃ la riviere.”’ 

To fish in troubled water. The French 
saying is, ‘‘ Pécher en eau trouble,” 1.6. 
‘*'"Profiter des époques de trouble et de 
révolution pour faire ses affaires et sa 
fortune. (Hilaire Le Gai.) 


water, 


Water 


1287 


Watling Street 


To hold water. That wowt hold water. 
That is not correct; it is not tenable. 
It is a vessel which leaks. 

To keep one’s head above water. To 
remain out of debt. When immersed in 
water, while the head is out of water, 
one is not drowned. 

To throw cold water on a scheme. To 
discourage the proposal; to speak of 1% 
slightingly. 

Water. The coldest water known, 

Colder than the water of Nonacris 
(Pliny, xiii. 2). 

Colder than the water of Dircé. ‘‘ Dirce 
et Neme fontes sunt frigidissimi estate, 
inter Bilbilim et Segobregam, in vipa fere 
Salonis annis.”? (Martial) 

Colder than the water of Dircenna. 
(Martial, i. 81.) 

Colder than the Conthoporian Spring 
of Corinth, that froze up the gastric 
juices of those that sipped it. 


Water-gall, The dark rim round 
the eyes after much weeping. A pecu- 
liar appearance ina rainbow which indi- 
cates more rainat hand. ‘‘ Gall” isthe 
Anglo-Saxon gealew (yellow). 

“ And round about her tear-distainéd eve 

Blue circles streamed, like rainbows in the sky ; 

These watergalls... foretell new storms.” 
Shakespeare: Rape of Lucrece. 

Water-hole. The big water-hole. 
The bed of the sea ; the ocean. 

“We've got to the big water-hole at last... 
‘Tis a long way across,”—Boldrewood: Robbery 
under Aris, chap. Χ ΤΙ, 

Water-logged. Kendered immov- 
able by too much water in the hold. 
When a ship leaks and is water-logged, 
it will not male any progress, but is 
like a log on the sea, tossed and sta- 
tionary. 

Water-Poet. John Taylor, the 
Thames waterman. (1580-1654.) 

“ T must confess I do want eloquence, 

And never scarce did learn my accidence, 

For having got from ‘ possum" to * posset,’ 

1 there was gravelled, nor could farther get.” 

Taylor the Water-Pvet. 

Water-sky (4), in Arctic naviga- 
tion, is a dark or brown sky, indicating 
an open sea. An ice-sky is a white one, 
or a sky tinted with orange or rose- 
colour, indicative of a frozen sea. (See 
Ick-BLINK.) 


Water Stock (10). To add extra 
shares. Supposea ‘‘trust’’ (q.v.) consists 
of 1,000 shares of £50 each, and the profit 
available for dividend is 40 per cent., 
the managers ‘‘ water the stock,’’ that 
is, add another 1,000 fully paid-up shares 
to the original 1,000. There are now 
2,000 shares, and the dividend, instead 


of £40 per cent., is reduced to £20; but 
the shares are more easily sold, and the 
shareholders are increased in number. 


Water of Jealousy (716). If a 
woman was known to commit adultery 
she was to be stoned to death, according 
to the Mosaiclaw. (Deut. xxii. 22.) If, 
however, the husband had no proof, but 
only suspected his wife of infidelity, he 
might take her before the Sanhedrim to 
be examined, and if she denied it, she 
was given the ‘‘ water of jealousy’’ 
to drink (Numb. v. 11-29). In this 
water some of the dust of the sanctuary 
was mixed, and the priest said to the 
woman, ‘If thou hast gone aside may 
Jehovah make this water bitter to thee, 
and bring on thee all the curses written 
in this law.’”’ The priest then wrote on 
a roll the curses, blotted the writing 
with the water, gave it to the woman, 
and then handed to her the ‘‘ water 
of jealousy ”’ to drink, 


Water Tasting like Wine. Pliny 
(ii. 103) tells us of a fountain in the Isle 
of Andros, in the temple of Bacchus, 
which every year, on January oth, tasted 
like wine. 

Baccius de Thermis (vi. 22) gives 
numerous examples of similar vinous 
springs. 

In Lanternland there was a fountain 
in the. middle of the temple, the water of 
which had the flavour of the wine which 
the drinker most liked. (Rabelais : Pan- 
tagruel, Vv. 42.) ᾿ 


Waters (Sanitary). 


For anemia, Schwalbach, St. Moritz. . 

articular rheumatism, Aix les Bains. 

» asthma, Mont Dore. 

» atonie gout, Royat. 

biliary obstructions, Carlsbad. +. 

, calculous disorders, Vichy and Contrexeville. 

» diabetes, Neuenahr and Carlsbad. 

.. gout, Aix les Bains. 

» gouty and catarrhal dyspepsia, Homburg and 
Kissingen. 

» obesity, Marienbad. 

» plethoric gout, Carlsbad. 

» scrofulous glandular affections, Kreuznacn. 

. Skin diseases, Aix la Chapelle and Constadt. 

, throat affections, La Bourbonne, Aix-les- 
Bains, Uriage, Auterets, Eaux Bonnes. 


Waterloo Cup (Zhe). A dog prize. 
Waterloo is on the banks of the Mersey, 
about three miles north of Liverpool. 


Waterworks (7Z/ic). The shedding 
of tears. Many other meanings also. 

“<Oh, miss, I never thought to have seen this 
day,’ and the waterworks began to play.’ 
Thackeray. 

Watling Street. A road extending 
east and west across South Britain. Be- 
ginning at Dover, it ran through Can- 
terbury to London, and thence to Cardi- 
gan, The word is a corruption of 


Watteau 


1288 


Weak as Water 


Vitellina strata, the paved road of Vitel- 
lius, called by the Britons Guet'alin. 
Poetically the ‘‘ Milky Way”’ has been 
called the Watling Street of the sky. 


“Secunda via principalis dicitur Wateling- 
streate, tendens ab euro-austro in zephyrum sep- 
tentrionalem. Incipit...a Dovaria... usque 
Cardigan.’’—Leland. 


Watteau. ‘ Peintre de féles galantes 
du roi.’ (1684-1721.) 


Wave. The ninth wave. A notion 
prevails that the waves keep increasing 
in regular series till themaximum arrives, 
and then the series begins again, No 
doubt when two waves coalesce they 
form a large one, but this does not occur 
at fixed intervals. The most common 
theory is that the tenth wave is the 
largest, but Tennyson says the ninth. 

“ And then the two 
Dropt to the cove, and watch'd the great sea fall, 
Wave after wave, each mightier than the last, 
Till last, a ninth one, gathering half the deep 
And full of voices, slowly rose and plunged 
Roaring, and all the wave was in a flame.” 
Tennyson: The Holy Grail. 

Wax-bond End (4). A thread 
waxed with cobbler’s wax and used for 
binding whips, fishing-rods, ropes, ete., 
for sewing boots and shoes, etc, It is 
waxed and used for a bond. 


Way-bit. A Yorkshire way-bit. A 
largeoverplus. Aska Yorkshireman the 
distance of any place, and he will reply 
so many miles and a way-bit (wee-dit) ; 
but the way-bit will prove a frightful 
length to the traveller who imagines it 
means only a /ittle bit over. The High- 
landers say, ‘‘A mile and a bittoch,”’ 
which means about two miles. 


Ways and Means. A parliamentary 
term, meaning the method of raising the 
supply of money for the current require- 
ments of the state. 


Wayfaring Tree (Zi). 
der rose (q.v.). 


The Guel- 


“ Wayfaring Tree! What ancient claim 
Hast thou to that right pleasant name ? 
Was it that some faint pilgrim came 

Unhopedly to thee, 
In the brown desert’s weary way, 
*Midst thirst and toil’s consuming sway, 
And there, as “neath thy shade he lay, 
Blessed the Wayfaring Tree ?~ W. I. 
Wayland, the Scandinavian Vulcan, 
was son of the sea-giant Wate, and the 
sea-nymph Wac-hilt. He was bound 
apprentice to Mimi the smith. King 
Nidung cut the sinews of his feet, and 
cast him into prison, but he escaped in a 
feather-boat. (Anglo-Saxon weallan, to 
fabricate.) 


Wayland Smith’s Cave. A crom- 
lech near Lambourn, Berkshire. Scott, 
in his Kenilworth (chap. xiii.), says, 
“Here lived a supernatural smith, who 
would shoe a traveller’s horse fora ‘ con- 
sideration.’ His fee was sixpence, and if 
more was offered him he was offended.” 


Wayland Wood (near Watton, Nor- 
folk), said to be the scene of the Babes 
in the Wood, and a corruption of ‘‘ Wail- 
ing Wood.” 


Wayleaves. Right of way through 
private property for the laying of water- 
pipes and making of sewers, ete., pro- 
vided that only the surface-soil is util- 
ised by the proprietor. 

“Mr. Woods made an attempt to get the House 
of Commons to commit itself to the proposition : 
That the present system of royalty rents and 


wayleaves 1s injurious to the great industries."— 
Liberty Review, April 14th, 1894, p. 307. 


Wayzgoose. An entertainment 
given to journeymen, or provided by the 
journeymen themselves. It is mainly a 
printers’ affair, which literary men and 
commercial staffs may attend by invi- 
tation or sufferance. The word wayz 
means a ‘‘ bundle of straw,’’ and wayz- 
goose a ‘*stubble goose,’’ properly the 
crowning dish of the entertainment. The 
Dutch wassen means ‘‘ to wax fat.’? The 
Latin anser sigatum. (See BEANFEAST, 
HARVEST GOOSE.) 

“Tn the midlands and north of England, every 
newspaper has its wayzgoose.’—The Pall Mail 
Gazette, June 26th, 1894. 

We. Coke, in the Jnstitutes, says the 
first king that wrote we in his grants was 
King John. All the kings before him 
wrote ego (I). This is not correct, as 
Richard Lion-heart adopted the royal 
we. (See Rymer’s Federa.) 


We Three. Did you never see the 
picture of “We Three” ? asks Sir Andrew 
Aguecheek—not meaning himself, Sir 
Toby Belch, and the clown, but referring 
to a public-house sign of Zwo Logger- 
heads, with the inscription, ‘‘ We three 
loggerheads be,’’ the third being the 
spectator. 


We Left Our Country for Our 
Country’s Good. We are transported 
convicts. The line occurs in a prologue 
written by George Barrington (a notori- 
ous pickpocket) for the opening of the 
tirst playhouse at Sydney, in Australia, 
16th January, 1796. 


“ True patriots we, for be it understood, 
We left our country for our country’s good.” 


Weak as Water. (Sce SIMILES.) 


Weak-kneed 


1289 Wedding Anniversaries 


Weak-kneed Christian or Poli- 
tician (4). Irresolute ; not thorough ; 
a Laodicean, neither hot nor cold. 

“Tf any weak-kneed Churchman, now hesitating 
between his [political] party and his Church, is 
trying to persuade himself that no mischief is in 
the air, let him take warning.’—Newspaper para- 
graph, October 16th, 1885. 

Weap’on Salve. A salve said to 
cure wounds bysympathy. The salve is 
not applied to the wound, but to the 
instrument which gave the wound. The 
direction ‘‘ Bind the wound and grease 
the nail”’ is still common when a wound 
has been given by a rusty nail, Sir 
Kenelm Digby says the salve is sympa- 
thetic, and quotes several instances to 
prove that ‘‘as the sword is treated the 
wound inflicted by it feels. Thus, if the 
instrument is kept wet, the wound will 
feel cool; if held to the fire, it will feel 
hot;”’ etc. 


τε But she has ta’en the broken lance, 
And washed it from the clotted gore, 
And salyed the splinter o’er and o'er.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Lay of the Last Minstrel, iii. 23. 


-: If grease must be used to satisfy the ignor- 
ant, it can do no harm on the rusty nail, but 
would certainly be harmful on the wound itself. 


Wear. Never wear the image of Deity 
in a ving. So Pythagoras taught his 
disciples, and Moses directed that the 
Jews should make no image of God. 
Both meant to teach their disciples that 
God is incorporeal, and not to be likened 
to any created form. (See Lamblichus : 
Protreptics, symbol xxiv.) 

Never wear a brown hat in Friesland. 
(See Hat.) 

To wear the 
WOOoDEN.) 

To wear the willow. (See W1LLoWw.) 

To wear one’s heart upon one’s sleeve. 
(See under HEART.) 


Weasel. JVeasels such eggs. 

Shakespeare— 
“The weazel Scot 
Comes sneaking, and so sucks the princely egg.” 
Henry V., i. 2. 
“T can suck melancholy out ΟΥ̓ ἃ song, as a 
weazel sucks eggs.""—As You Like It, 11. 5. 

To catch a weasel asleep. 'To expect to 
find a very vigilant person nodding, off 
his guard; to suppose that one who has 
his weather-eye open cannot see what is 
passing before him. The French say, 
Croir avoir trouvé la pie au nid (To ex- 
pect to find the pie on its nest). The 
vigilant habits of these animals explain 
the allusions. . 


Weather Breeder (4). A day of 
unusual fineness coming suddenly after 
a series of damp dull ones, especially at 
the time of the year when such a genial 


wooden sword. (See 


Hence 


day is not looked for. Such a day is 
generally followed by foul weather. 


Weather-cock. By a Papal enact- 
ment made in the middle of the ninth 
century, the figure of a cock was set up 
on every church-steeple as the emblem 
of St. Peter. The emblem is in allusion 
to his denial of our Lord thrice before 
the cock crew twice. On the second 
crowing of the cock the warning of his 
Master flashed across his memory, and 
the repentant apostle ‘‘went out and 
wept bitterly.” 

Weather-eye. J have my weather- 
eye open. 1 have my wits about me; I 
know what I am after. The weather- 
eye is towards the wind to forecast the 
weather. 


Weather-gage. 70 get the weather- 
gage of a person, To get the advantage 
over him. A ship is said to have the 
weather-gage of another when it has got 
to the windward thereof. 

“Were the line 
Of Rokeby once combined with mine, 
I gain the weather-gage of fate.” 
Sir Walter Scott: Rokeby. 

Weather-glass (Zhe Peasant’s) or 
‘¢Poor man’s warning.’ The scarlet 
pimpernel, which closes its petals at the 
approach of rain. 


* Closed is the pink-eyed pimpernel : 
*Twill surely rain ; I see with sorrow, 
Our jaunt must be put off to-morrow.” 


Dr. Jenner. 
Web of Life. The destiny of an 
individual from the cradle to the grave. 
The allusion is to the three Fates who, 
according to Roman mythology, spin 
the thread of life, the pattern being the 


events which are to occur. 


Wed is Anglo-Saxon, and means a 
pledge. The ring is the pledge given by 
the man to avouch that he will perform 
his part of the contract. 


Wedding Anniversaries. 


The 5th anniversary is called the 
Wooden wedding, 

The 10th anniversary is 
Tin wedding, 

The 15th anniversary is 
Crystal wedding, 

The 20th anniversary is 
China wedding, 

The 25th anniversary is 
Silver wedding, 

The 50th anniversary is 
Golden wedding, 

The 60th anniversary is called the 
Diamond wedding. From the nature of 
the gifts suitable for each respective 
anniversary. 


called the 
called the 
called the 
called the 
called the 


Wedding Finger 


1299 


Well of St. Keyne 


Wedding Finger. Macrobius says 
the thumb is too busy to be set apart, 
the forefinger and little finger are only 
half protected, the middle finger is called 
med'icus, and is too opprobrious for the 
purpose of honour, so the only finger left 


1s the prontibus or wedding finger. (See 
Rine, Fryeers.) 
Wedding Knives. Undoubtedly, 


one knife or more than one was in 
Chancer’s time part of a bride’s para- 
phernalia. Allusions to this custom are 
very numerous, 

“ See, at my girdle hang my wedding knives.” 

Dekker : Match Me in London (1631). 

Wednesday. Woden-es or Odin-es 
Day, called by the French ‘‘ Mercredi ”’ 
(Mercury’s Day). The Persians regard 
it as a ‘‘red-letter day,’’ becaus2 the 
moon was created on the fourth day, 
(Genesis iv. 14-19.) 

ἢ But the last Wednesday of November is 
called “ Black Wednesday.” 

Weed of Worcester (Zi/c). The 
elm, which is very common indeed in the 
county. 


Weeds. Widow's weeds. (Anglo- 
Saxon, wed, a garment.) There are the 
compounds wed-bréc (breeches or gar- 
ment for the breech), wedless (uaked or 
without clothing), and so on. Spenser 
speaks of 

“A goodly lady clad in hunter's weed.” 


Weeping Brides. A notion long 
prevailed in this country that it augured 
ill for a matrimonial alliance if the bride 
did not weep profusely at the wedding. 

As no witch could shed more than 
three tears, and those from her left eye 
only, a copious flow of tears gave assur- 
ance to the husband that the lady had 
not ‘‘ plighted her troth”’’ to Satan, and 
was no witch. 


- ΄-- 4 

Weeping Cross. 70 go by Weeping 
Cross. Το repent, to grieve. In ancient 
times weeping crosses were crosses where 
penitents offered their devotions. In 
Stafford there is a weeping cross. 

“Few men have wedded... their paramours 
... but have come home by Weeping Cross.”— 
Florio: Montaigne. 

Weeping Philosopher. Heracli’tos. 
So called because he grieved at the foll 

. 5 - 
of man. (Flourished B.c. 400.) 


Weeping Saint (7ke). St. Swithin. 
So called from the tradition of forty 
days’ rain, if it rains on July 1dth. 


Weigh Anchor. Be off, get you 
gone. ΤῸ weigh anchor is to lift it from 
its moorings, so that the ship may start 


on her voyage. As soon as this is done 
the ship 1s weder-weigh—i.e. in move- 
ment. (Saxon, wagan, to lift up, carry.) 

“Get off with you ; come, come ! weigh anchor,” 
—Sir W. Scott: The Antiquary. 

Weighed in the Balance, and 
found Wanting. The custom of weigh- 
ing the Maharajah of Travancore in a 
scale against gold coin is still in use, and 
is called Talabbaram. The gold is heaped 
up till the Maharajah rises well in the 
air, The priests chant their Vedic 
hymns, the Maharajah is adored, and 
the gold is distributed among some 15,000 
Brahmins, more or less. 


Weight. 4 dead weight. (See DEAD.) 


Weight-for-age Race (4). A sort 
of handicap (¢.v.), but the weights are 
apportioned according to certain con- 
ditions, and not according to the dictum 
of a ‘“‘capper.’’ Horses of the same age 
carry similar weights cetcris paribus. 
(See SELLING- RACE, PLatr, SWEEP- 
STAKES. ) 

Weissnichtwo (vice-necchi-vo). I 
know not where; Utopia; Kennaquhair ; 
an imaginary place in Carlyle’s Sartor 
Resavtus. (See Urorta.) 

Welcher. (See WELSHER.) 


Weld or Wold. The dyer’s-weed 
(reséda lutedla), which yields a beautiful 
yellow dye. (Anglo-Saxon, geld or gold, 
our yellow, etc.) 


Well Begun is Half Done. 

eginning is half the whole.”’ 
goras.) 

French: ‘*‘ Heureux commencement 
est la moitié de l’ceuvre.’’ ‘‘Ce n’est 
que le premier pas qui cotite.”’ 

Latin: ‘Incipe dimidium facti est, 
ceepisse.”’? (Ausonius.) 

“ Dimidium facti, qui ecepit, habet.’’ 

Horace, 

“ Facilius est incitare currentem, quam 

commovere languentem.”’ (Cicero.) 


Well-beloved. Charles VI. of 
France, /e Bien-aimé. (1368, 1380-1422.) 


Well-founded Doctor. A‘gid’ius 
de Columna. (*-1316.) 


Well of English Undefiled. So 
Geoffrey Chaucer is spoken of by 
Spenser in the Fuacrie Queene, iv, 2. 
(1328-1400.) 


Well of St. Keyne [Cornwall]. The 
reputed virtue of this well is that which- 
ever of a married pair first drinks its 
waters will be the paramount power of 
the house. Southey has a ballad on the 
subject. The gentleman left the bride 


“ ΤῊ 6 
(Pytha- 


Well of Samaria 


1291 


Werwolf 


at the church door, but the lady took a 
bottle of the water to church. 


Well of Samaria, now 
Nablis, is seventy-five feet deep. 


Well of Wisdom. This was the 
well under the protection of the god Mi- 
mir (g.v.). Odin, by drinking thereof, 
became the wisest of all beings. (Sea- 
dinavian mythology.) 


Wells (Somersetshire). 
from St. Andrew’s Well. 


Weller (Sam). Pickwick’s factotum- 
His wit, fidelity, archness, and wide- 
awakedness are inimitable. (Dickens: 
Lick wick Papers.) 

Tony Weller. Father of Sam. Type 
of the old stage-coachman; portly in 
size, and dressed in a broad-brimmed 
hat, great-coat of many capes, and top- 
boots. His stage-coach was his castle, 
and elsewhere he was as green as a 
sailor on terra firma. (Dickens: Piek- 
wick Papers.) 

Wellington. Arthir Wellesley, Duke 
of Wellington, called ‘‘ The Iron Duke,”’ 
from his iron constitution and iron will. 
(1769-1852.) 

Wellington's horse, Copenhagen. (Died 


called 


So called 


at the age of twenty-seven.) (66 
HLonsE.) 
Le Wellington des Jouewrs. Lord 


Rivers was so called in Paris. 

“Le Wellington des Joueurs lost £23,000 at a 
sitting, beginning at twelve at night, and ending 
at seven the following morning.” — Edinburgh 
Review, July, 1844. 

Welsh Ambassador (Ziic). The 
euckoo. Logan, in his poem 70. the 
Cuckoo calls it the ‘messenger οὗ 
Spring’; but the Welsh ambassador 
means that the bird announces the 
migration of Welsh labourers into 
England for summer employment. 

“Why, thou rogue of universality, do T not 
know thee? This sound is like the cuckoo, the 
Welshambassador.”"—Dampet : A Trick to Cutch the 
O'd One, iv. 5. 

Welsh Main. Same as a “battle 
royal,”’ (Sve BATTLE.) 

Welsh Mortgage (4). A pledge of 
land in which no day is fixed for re- 
demption. 


Welsh Rabbit. Cheese melted and 
spread over buttered toast. The word 
rabbit is a corruption of rare-bit. 

“The Welshman he loved toasted cheese, 

Which made his mouth like a mouse-trap.” 

When Good King Arthur Ruled the Land. 

Welsh’er. One who lays a bet, but 
absconds it he loses. It means a Welsh- 
man, and is based upon the nursery 


rhyme, ‘‘ Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy 
was a thief.” 


Wench (4) is the Anglo-Saxon word 
wencle, a child. It is now chiefly 
used derogatorily, and the word wench- 
ing is quite offensive. In the Midland 
counties, when a peasant addresses his 
wife as ‘‘my wench,’’ he expresses 
endearment. 

Wench, like girl, was at one time applied 
to either sex. Chaucer has “yonge-girls” for 
youngsters of both sexes. We find the phrase 
“knave-girl” used for boys; and Isaac, in the 
Ormulum, is called a wench or wenchel, Simi- 
Tarly, “maid” is applied to both sexes, hence 
the compound meden-famne, a female child or 
maiden. 


Wer’ner, alias Avwitzner, alias Count 
Siegendorf. Being driven from the do- 
minion of his father, he wandered about 
as a beggar for twelve years. Count 
Stral’enheim, being the next heir, hunted 
him from place to place. At length 
Stral’enheim, travelling through Silesia, 
was rescued from the Oder by Ulric, and 
lodged in an o!d palace where Werner 
had been lodging for some few days. 
Werner robbed Stral’enheim of a rouleau 
of gold, but scarcely had he done so when 
he recognised in Ulric his lost son, and 
chid him for saving the count. Ulric 
murdered Stral’enheim, and provided for 
his father’s escape to Siegendorf castle, 
near Prague. Werner recovered his do- 
minion, but found that his son was a 
murderer, and imagination is left to fill 
up the future fate of both father and 
son. (Byron: Werner.) 


Wer'ther. The sentimental hero of 
Goethe’s romance called The Sorrows of 
Werther. 


Werwolf (French, Jowp-garou). A 
bogie who roams about devouring in- 
fants, sometimes under the form of a 
man, sometimes as a wolf followed by 
dogs, sometimes as a white dog, some- 
times as a black goat, and occasionally 
invisible. Its skin is bullet-proof, unless 
the bullet has been blessed in a chapel 
dedicated to St. Hubert. This super- 
stition was once common to almost all 
Europe, and still lingers in Brittany, 
Limousin, Auvergne, Servia, Wallachia, 
and White Russia. In the fifteenth cen- 
tury a council of theologians, convoked 
by the Emperor Sigismund, gravely 
decided that the Jlouwp-garow was a 
reality. It is somewhat curious that we 
say a ‘‘bug-bear,’”? and the French a 
“bug-wolf.” (‘* Wer-wolf’’ is Anglo- 
Saxon wer, aman,and wolf—a man in the 
semblance of a wolf. ‘Gar’ of gar-ou 


Wesleyan 


1292 


Wharton 


is wer or war, a man; and “ou,” a 


corruption of ore, an ogre.) 

** Ovid tells the story of Lycaon, 
King of Arcadia, turned into a wolf 
because he tested the divinity of Jupiter 
by serving up to him a ‘“‘hash of human 
flesh.’’ 

Herodotus describes the Neuri as sor- 
cerers, who had the power of assuming 
ounce a year the shape of wolves. 

Pliny relates that one of the family of 
Antieus was chosen annually, by lot, to 
be transformed into a wolf, in which 
shape he continued for nine years. 

St. Patrick, we are told, converted 
Vereticus, King of Wales, into a wolf. 


Wesleyan. A _ follower of John 
Wesley (1703-1791), founder of the Wes- 
leyan Methodists. 

Wessex, or West Saxon Kingdom, 
included Hants, Dorset, Wilts, Somerset, 
Surrey, Gloucestershire, and Bucks. 


Westmoreland [Land of the West 
Moors). Geoffrey of Monmouth says (iv. 
17) that Mar or Marrius, son of Arvir’- 
agus, one of the descendants of Brutus 
the Trojan wanderer, killed Rodric, a 
Pict, and set up a monument of his vic- 
tory in a place which he called ‘‘ West- 
mar-land,’’ and the chronicler adds that 
the ‘‘inscription of this stone remains to 
this day.’’ (Saxon, /Vest-moring-land.) 


Wet. Tohaveawet. To have a drink. 


Wet-bob and Dry-bob. At Eton 
a wet-bob is a boy who goes in for 
boating, but a dry-bob is one who goes 
in for cricket. 

Wet Finger (/Vith a), easily, directly. 
“ Dun tour de main.’? The allusion is 
to the old custom of spinning, in which 
the spinner constantly wetted the fore- 
finger with the mouth. 


ἜΤ can bring myself round with a wet flnger."— 
Sir W. Scott: Redgauntlet, chap. xxiii. (and in 
many other places). 

“The spirit being grieved and provoked. ... 
will not return again witha wet finger.”—Gouge: 
Whole Armour of God, p. 458 (1616). 


. Σ ‘“T can find “ 
One witha wet finger that is stark blind.” 
Trial of Love and Fortune (1598). 
Flores. “ Canst thou bring me thither ? 
Peasant. Witha wet finger.” 
Wisdom of Dr. Dodypoll (1600). 
Wetherell (Liizabeth). A pseudo- 
nym adopted by Miss Susan Warner, an 
American writer, author of Zhe Wide 
Wide World, and other works. 


Wexford Bridge Massacre. In 
the great Irish Rebellion of 1798, May 
25th, some 14,000 Irish insurgents at- 
tacked Wexford, defeated the garrison, 
put to death all those taken prisoners, 


and on the 30th frightened the town 
into a surrender. They treated the Pro- 
testants with the utmost barbarity, and, 
after taking Enniscorthy, encamped on 
Vinegar Hill (g.v.).. When informed 
that Wexford was retaken by the Eng- 
lish, the insurgents massacred about a 
thousand Protestant prisoners in cold 
blood. 


Weyd-monat. The Anglo-Saxon 
name for June, ‘‘ because the beasts did 
then weyd in the meadow, that is to say, 
go and feed there.’? (J erstegan.) 


Whale. 


mammal, 


Not a fish, but a cetaceous 


A group of whales is called a school. 

The fat is called blubber. 

The female is called a cow. 

The fore-limbs are called paddles, 

The male is called a bull-whale. 

The spear used in whale-fishing is called a 
barpoon. 

The young of whales isa cub or calf. 

TooOTHED- WHALES include 
whales and dolphins. 

WUALE-BONE WHALES 


quals and humpbacks, 


Whale. Jery like a whale. Very 
much like a cock-and-bull story; a 
fudge. Hamlet chaffs Polo'‘nius by com- 
paring a cloud toa camel, and then to a 
weasel, and when the courtier assents 
Hamlet adds, ‘‘Or like a whale’’; to 
which Polonius answers, ‘‘ Very like a 
whale.”’ (Act ili. 2. 


Whalebone (9 syl.). White as 
whalebone. Our forefathers seemed to 
confuse the walrus with the whale; 
ivory was made from the teeth of the 
walrus, and ‘‘ white as whalebone”’ is 
really a blunder for ‘‘ white as walrus- 
ivory.” 


Wharncliffe (2 syl.). A Wharneliffe 
meeting is a meeting of the shareholders 
of a railway company, called for the 
purpose of obtaining their assent to a 
billin Parliament bearing on the com- 
pany’s railway. So called from Lord 
Wharncliffe, its originator. 


Wharton. Philip Wharton, Duke of 
Northumberland, described by Pope in 
the Moral Essays in the lines begin- 
ning— 

“ Wharton, the scorn and wonder of our days.” 


sperm- 


include ror- 


A most brilliant orator, but so licentious 
that he wasted his patrimony in drunk- 
enness and self-indulgence. He was 
outlawed for treason, and died in a 
wretched condition at a Bernardine con- 
vent in Catalonia, (1698-1731.) 


What we Gave we Have, What 
we Spent we Had, What we Had 
we Lost. Epitaph of the Good Earl of 
Courtenay. (Gibbon : History of the 
Courtenay Family.) 

The epitaph in St. George’s church, 
Doncaster, runs thus: 

“How now, who is here? 
I, Robin of Doncastere 
And Margaret, my feere. 
That 1 spent, that I had ; 
That I gave, that I have ; 
That I left, that I Jost.” 

This is a free translation of Martial’s 
distich— 

“Extra fortunam est quidquid donatur amicis 

Quas dederis, solas seinper habebis opes.” 

What’s What. He knows what's 
what. Heisa shrewd fellow not to be 
imposed on. One of the senseless ques- 
tions of logic was ‘‘ Quid est quid 2”’ 

“He knew what's what, and that’s as high 
As metaphysic wit can fly.” 
Butler: Hudibrus, part i. canto 1. 

Whately, Archbishop of Dublin, 
nicknamed at Oxford ‘‘the White 
Bear’’ (White from his white overcoat, 
and Bear from the rude, unceremonious 
way in which he would trample upon 
an adversary in argument). (1787-1863.) 


Wheal or Hucl means a tin-mine. 
( Cornwall.) 


Wheatear (the bird) has no connec- 
tion with either wheat or ear, but it is the 
Anglo-Saxon hwit (white), ears (rump). 
Sometimes called the White-rump, and 
in French dblanculet (the little blanc- 
cul). So called from its white rump. 


Wheel. Emblematical of St. Catha- 
rine, who was put to death on a wheel 
somewhat resembling a chaff-cutter. 

St. Dona’tus bears a wheel set round 
with lights. 

St. Euphe’mia and St. Willigis both 
carry wheels. 

St. Quintin is sometimes represented 
with a broken wheel at his feet. 

To put one’s spoke into another man’s 
wheel. (See under SPOKE.) 


Wheel of Fortune (712). Fortuna, 
the goddess, is represented on ancient 
monuments with a wheel in her hand, 
emblematical of her inconstancy. 
“Though Fortune’s malice overthrow my state, 

My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.” 
Shakespeare: 3 Henry VI., iv. 3. 

Whelps. Fifth-rate men of war. 
Thus, in Howell’s letters we read, ‘‘ At 
the return of this fleet two of the whelps 
were cast away’’; and in the Ziavels 
of Sir W. Brereton we read, ‘‘I went 
aboard one of the king’s ships, called the 
ninth wkelp, whichis. ., . 215 ton and 


Whip 


tonnage in king’s books.’”? In Queen 
Elizabeth’s navy was a ship called Lion’s 
Whelp, and her navy was distinguished 
as first, second . . . tenth whelp. 


Whetstone. (Sve Accius Navivs.) 


Whetstone of Witte (Zc) (1556), 
by Robert Recorde, a treatise on algebra, 
The old name for algebra was the 
‘“Cossic Art,’? and Cos Ligenii rendered 
into English is ‘‘the Whetstone of 
Wit.’’ It will be remembered that the 
maid told the belated traveller in the 
Fortunes of Nigel that her master had 
“no other books but her young mis- 
tress’s Bible. ... and her master’s 
Whetstone of Witte, by Robert Recorde.”’ 


Whig is from Vhiggam-more, a cor- 
ruption of Ugham-more (pack-saddle 
thieves), from the Celtic wgham (a pack- 
saddle). The Scotch insurgent Coven- 
anters were called pack-saddle thieves, 
from the pack-saddles which they used 
to employ for the stowage of plunder. 
The Marquis of Argyle collected a band 
of these vagabonds, and instigated them 
to aid him in opposing certain govern- 
ment measures in the reign of James 
1., and in the reign of Charles 11. all 
who opposed government were called 
the Argyle whiggamors, contracted into 
whigs. (See Tory.) 

“The south-west counties of Scotland have 
seldom corn enough to serve them all the year 
round, and, the northern parts producing more 
than they used, those in the west went insummer 
to buy at Leith the stores that came from the 
north, From the word whiggam, used in driving 
their horses, all that drove were called the whig- 
gamors, contracted into whigs. Now,in the year 
before the news came down of Duke Hamil- 
ton's defeat, the ministers animated their people 
to rise and march to Edinburgh ; and they came 
up, marching on the head of their parishes, with 
an unheard-of fury, praying and preaching all 
the way as they came. The Marquis of Argyle 
and his party came and headed them, they being 
about 6,000. This was called the * Whiggamors’ 
Inroad” ; and ever after that, all who opposed 
the court came in contempt to he called whigqs. 
From Scotland the word was brought into Eng- 
land, where it is now one of our unhappy terms 
of disunion.’”"—Bishop Burnet : Own Times. 

Whig'’gism. The political tenets of 
the Whigs, which may be broadly stated 
to be political and religious liberty. 
Certainly Bishop Burnet’s assertion that 
they are ‘‘ opposed to the court’? may or 
may not be true. In the reigns of 
Charles II. and his brother James, no 
doubt they were opposed to the court, 
but it was far otherwise in the reign of 
William 111., George I., etc., when the 


Tories were the anti-court party. 

Whip (4), in the Legislative Assem- 
blies, is a person employed to whip up 
members on either side, The Whips 
give notice to members that a motion is 


Whip 


expected when their individual vote may 
be desirable. The circular runs: ‘A 
motion is expected when your vote is 
‘earnestly’ required.” If the word 
ἐς earnestly’ has only one red-ink dash 
under it the receiver is expected to come, 
if it has two dashes it means that he 
ought to come, if it has three dashes it 
means that he must come, if four dashes 
it means ‘‘stay away at your peril.” 
These notices are technically called 
“Rep Wurps.”? (Annual Register, 1877, 
p. 86.) 

A whip. A notice sent to a member 
of Parliament by a ‘‘ whip ”’ (sce above) 
to be in his place at the time stated 
when a ‘‘ division ’’ is expected. 


Whip. He whipped round the corner 
—ran round it quickly. (Dutch, wippen ; 
Welsh, chwipwio, to whip; chwip, a 
flick or flirt.) 

He whipped it up in a minute, The 
allusion is to the hoisting machine called 
a whip. A sizgle whip is a rope passing 
over one pulley ; a dowble whip is a rope 
passed over two single pulleys attached 
to a yard-arm. 


Whip-dog Day. October 18 (St. 
Luke’s Day). Brand tells us that a 
priest about to celebrate mass on St. 
Luke’s Day, happened to drop the pyx, 
which was snatched up by a dog, and 
this was the origin of Whip-dog Day. 
(Popular Antiquities, ii. 273.) 


Whip with Six Strings (7/e). Called 
“the Bloody Statute.’”’ The religious 
code of six articles enacted by Convo- 
cation and Parliament in the reign of 
Henry VIII. (1539). 


Whipping Boy. A boy kept to be 
whipped when a prince deserved chas- 
tisement. Mungo Murray stood for 
Charles I., Barnaby Fitzpatrick for 
Edward VI. (fuller: Church History, 
ii. 342.) D’Ossat and Du _ Perron, 
afterwards cardinals, were whipped by 
Clement VIII. for Henri IV. of France. 
Also called a whip-boy. 


Whis’kers. A security for money. 
John de Castro of Portugal, having cap- 
tured the castle of Diu, in India, bor- 
rowed of the inhabitants of Goa 1,000 
pistoles for the maintenance of his fleet, 
and gave one of his whiskers as security 
of payment, saying, ‘‘ All the gold in 
the world cannot equal the value of this 
natural ornament, which I deposit in 
your hands.”’ 


Whis'ky. Contracted from the 
Gaelic ooshk-a-pai (water of health). 


1294 


Whistle 


Usquebaugh, Irish wisge-’a-bagh (water 
ἐξ life); eau de vie, French (water of 
ife). 
LD. whisky. (See 1,..1,. WHIskyY.) 

Whisky, drink divine (the song) was 
by O’Leary, not by John Sheehan. 

** As a pretty general rule the Scotch 
word is whiskey, and the Irish word 
whisky, without the e. 


Whisky-drinker. The Irish whishy- 
drinker, Sohn [Jack] Sheehan, author 
of The Irish Whisky-drinker’s Papers 
in Bentley’s Miscellany. 


Whist. Cotton says that ‘‘ the game 
is so called from the silence that is to be 
observed in the play.’’ Dr. Johnson has 
adopted this derivation; but Taylor the 
Water-poet (1650), Swift (1728), and 
Barrington (1787) called the game Whisk, 
to the great discomfiture of this ety- 
mology. Pope (1714) called it whist. 

* The first known mention of whist 
in print was in a book called The 
Motto, published in 1621, where it is 
called whisk. The earliest known use 
of the present spelling is in Butler’s 
Hudibras (1663). 

“ Let nice Piquette the boast of France remain,’ 
And studious Ombre be the pride of Spain ; 
Invention’s praise shall England yield to none, 
While she can call delightful Whist her own.” 

Alexander Thomson: A poem in eight cantos on 

Whist. (Second edition, 1792.) 

§ Whistle (noun). Champion of the 
whistle. The person who can hold out 
longest in a drinking bout. A Dane, in 
the train of Anne ot Denmark, had an 
ebony whistle placed on the table, and 
whoever of his guests was able to blow 
it when the rest of the company were too 
far gone for the purpose was called the 
champion. Sir Robert Laurie of Max- 
welton, after a rouse lasting three nights 
and three days, left the Dane under 
the table and blew his requiem on the 
whistle. 

To wet one’s whistle. To take a drink. 
Whistle means a pipe (Latin, fistula ; 
Saxon, hiwistle), hence the wind-pipe. 

“So was hir joly whistal well y-wet.” 
Chaucer : Canterbury Tales. 

You paid too dearly for your whistle, 
You paid dearly for something you 
fancied, but found that it did not 
answer your expectation. The allusion 
is to a story told by Dr. Franklin of his 
nephew, who set his mind on a common 
whistle, which he bought of a boy for 
four times its value. Franklin says the 
ambitious who dance attendance on 
court, the miser who gives this world 
and the next for gold, the libertine who 
ruins his health for pleasure, the girl 


‘Whistle 


1295 


White Czar 


who marries a brute for money, all pay 
*“too much for their whistle.’’ 

Worth the whistle. Worth calling ; 
worth inviting; worth notice. The dog 
is worth the pains of whistling for. Thus 
Heywood, in one of his dialogues con- 
sisting entirely of proverbs, says, ‘‘ It 
is a poor dog that is not worth the 
whistling.’’ Goneril says to Albany— 

“T have been worth the whistle.” 
Shakespeare: King Lear, iy. 2. 

Whistle (verb). You may whistle for 
that. You must not expect it. The re- 
ference is to sailors whistling for the 
wind. ‘They call the winds, but will 
they come when they do call them ?”’ 


“ Only a ljttle hour ago ' 
Iwas whistling toSt. Antonio | 
For a capful of wind to fill our sail, 
And instead of a breeze he has sent a gale.” 
Longfellow : Golden Legend, v. 
You must whistle for more. In the old 
whistle-tankards, the whistle comes into 
play when the tankard is empty, to an- 
nounce to the drawer that more liquor 
is wanted. Hence the expression, If a 
man wants liquor, he must whistle for it. 


Whistle Down the Wind (70). To 
defame a person. The cognate phrase 
‘blown upon’? is more familiar, The 
idea is to whistle down the wind that 
the reputation of the person may be 
blown upon. 


Whisile for the Wind. 
FULI.) 

* What gales are sold on Lapland’s shore ! 

How whistle rash bids tempests roar !”” 
Sir Walter Scott : Rokeby, ii. 11. 

White denotes purity, simplicity, and 
candour; innocence, truth, and hope. 

The ancient Druids, and indeed the 
priests generally of antiquity, used to 
wear white vestments, as do the clergy 
of the Established Church of England 
when they officiate in any sacred service. 
The magi also wore white robes. 

The head of Osiris, in Egypt, was 
adorned with a white tiara; all her 
ornaments were white ; and her priests 
were clad in white. 

The priests of Jupiter, and the Fla- 
men Dialis of Rome, were clothed in 
white, and wore white hats. The victims 
offered to Jupiter were white. The 
Roman festivals were marked with white 
chalk, and at the death of a Cesar the 
national mourning was white; white 
horses were sacrificed to the sun, white 
oxen were selected for sacrifice by the 
Druids, and white elephants are held 
sacred in Siam, 

The Persians affirm that the divinities 
are habited in white. 


(Sve Car- 


White Bird (1716). Conscience, or 
the soul of man. The Mahometans have 
preserved the old Roman idea in the 
doctrine that the souls of the just lie 
under the throne of God, like white 
birds, till the resurrection morn. 

“A white bird, she told him once... he must 
carry on his bosom across a crowded public place 
—his own soul was like that.’—Puter : Marius the 
Epicurean, chap. 11. 

White Brethren or White-clad 
Brethren. A sect in the beginning of 
the fifteenth century. Mosheim says 
(bk. ii. p. 2, chap. v.) a certain priest 
came from the Alps, clad in white, with 
an immense concourse of followers all 
dressed in white linen also. They 
marched through several provinces, fol- 
lowing a cross borne by their leader. 
Boniface X. ordered their leader to be 
burnt, and the multitude dispersed. 


White Caps. A rebellious party of 
zealous Mahometans, put down by Kien- 
long the Chinese emperor, in 1758. So 
called from their head-dress. 


White Caps. An influential family 
in Kerry (Ireland), who acted a similar 
part as Judge Lynch in America. When 
neighbours became unruly, the white 
caps visited them during the night and 
beat them soundly. Their example was 
followed about a hundred years ago in 
other parts of Ireland. 


White Caps (1891). A party in North 
America opposed to the strict Sabba- 
tarian observance, So called because 
they wear high white caps. First heard 
of at Okawaville, Illinois. 


White-coat (4). An Austrian sol- 
dier. So called because he wears a white 
coat. Similarly, an English soldier is 
called a red-coat. In old Rome, ad 
saga ive meant to ‘‘ become a soldier,”’ 
and tumere sagum to enlist, from the 
sagun or military cloak worn by the 
soldier, in contradistinction to the toga 
worn by the citizen in times of peace. 


White Cockade. The badge worn 
by the followers of Charles Edward, the 
Pretender. 


White Company (Ze). ‘‘ Le Blanche 
Compagnie.”? A band of French cut- 
throats organised by Bertrand du Gues- 
clin and led against Pedro the Cruel. 


“Se faisoient appeller ‘ La Blanche Compagnie, 
parce qwils portoient tous une croix blanche 
sur l’épaule, comme voulant temoigner quils 
n'ayoient pris les armes que pour abolir le Ju- 
daisme en Espagne, et combattre le Prince qui 
le protégesit.”—Meémoires Historiques. 


White Czar (Zhe). Strictly speak- 
ing means the Czar of Muscovy; the 


White Elephant 


King of Muscovy was called the White 
King from the white robes which he 
wore. The King of Poland was called 
the Black King. 

“Sunt qui principem Moscovie Album Regem 
nuncupant. Ego quidem causam diligenter 
quier€hbam, cur regis albi nomine appellarétur, 
cum nemo principum Moscovie eo titulo antea 
(Ivan 111.} esset usus. . . Credo autem ut Persam 
hune propter rubea tegumenta capitis * Kissil- 
passa’ (i.e. rubeum caput) vocant; ita reges 
Moscoviwe propter alba tegumenta ‘ Albos Reges’ 
appellari.”’—Sigismund, 

“The marriage of the Czarevitch with the 
Princess Alex of Hesse (2 syl.) .will_ impress the 
Oriental mind with the expectation that the 
Empress of India and the White Czar will Lence- 
forth ... labour τὸ avoid the ... mischief of 
disagreement.”—The Standard, April 21st, 1894. 


White Elephant. King of the 
White Elephant. The proudest title 
borne by the kings of Ava and Siam. 
In Ava the white elephant bears the 
title of ‘‘lord,’’ aud has a minister of 
high rank to superintend his household. 

The land of the White Elephant. Siam. 

To have a white elephant to keep. To 
have an expensive and unprofitable dig- 
nity to support, or a pet article to take 
care of, For example, a person movin 
is determined to keep a pet carpet, aa 
therefore hires his house to fit his carpet. 
The King of Siam makes a present of a 
white elephant to such of his courtiers as 
he wishes to ruin. 


White Feather. 170 show the white 
feather. To show cowardice. No game- 
cock has a white feather. A white 
feather indicates a cross-breed in birds, 

Showing the white feather. Some years 
ago a bloody war was raging between 
the Indians and settlers of the back- 
woods of North America. A Quaker, 
who refused to fly, saw one day a horde 
of savages rushing down towards his 
house. He set food before them, and 
when they had eaten the chief fastened 
a white feather over the door as a badge 
of friendship and peace. Though many 
bands passed that house, none ever 
violated the covenant by injuring its 
inmates or property. 


White Friars. The Carmelites. So 
called because they dressed in white. 

Whitefriars, London. So called from 
a monastery of White Friars which for- 
merly stood in Water Lane. 

Whitefriars. A novel, by Emma 
Robinson. 

White Harvest (4). A late harvest, 
when the ground is white of a morning 
with hoarfrost. The harvest of 1891 
was a white harvest, 


White Hat. (See wnder Hat.) 


1296 


White Horse of Wantage (Berk- 
shire), cut in the chalk hills, This horse 
commemorates a great victory gained by 
Alfred over the Danes, in the reign of 
his brother Ethelred I. The battle is 
called the battle of Aiscesdun (Ashtree- 
hill). The horse is 374 feet long, and 
may be seen at the distance of fifteen 
mniles. (Dr. Wise.) 

An annual ceremony was once held, 
called ‘‘ Scouring the White Horse.”’ 


White Horses. Foam-crested waves. 


“The resemblance ... has commonly been 
drawn between the horse [and the waves], in 
regard to his mane,and the foam-tipped waves, 
which are still called white horses.’—W. ΑΕ. Glud- 
stone: Nineteenth Century, November, 1885. 


White House. The presidential 
mansion in the United States. It is a 
building of freestone, painted white, at 
Washington. Figuratively, it means 
the Presidency ; as, ‘‘ He has his eye on 
the White House.’’ (See WHITEHALL. ) 


White Ladies [Les Danes Blanches). 
A species of fée in Normandy. They 
lurk in ravines, fords, bridges, and other 
narrow passes, and ask the passenger to 
dance. If they receive a courteous an- 
swer, well; but if a refusal, they seize 
the churl and fling him into a ditch, 
where thorns and briars may serve to 
teach him gentleness of manners. 

The most famous of these ladies is 
La Dame d’ Aprigny, who used to occupy 
the site of the present Rue St. Quentin, 
at Bayeux, and La Dame Abonde. 
“Vocant dom’inam <Adun'diam pro eo 
quod dom/ibus, quas frequentant, abun- 
dan'tiam bono’rum tempora’lium prees- 
ta’re putantur non al‘iter tibi sentiendum 
est neque al'iter quam quemad’modum 
de illis audivisti.”” (William of Auvergne, 
1248.) (See BERCHTA.) 

* One kind of these the Italians Fata name ; 


The French call Fee ; we Sybils ; and the same 
Others White Dames, and those that them have 


Night Ladies some, of which Habundia’s queen.” 
Hierarchie, viii. p. 507. 

The White Lady. The legend says 
that Bertha promised the workmen of 
Neuhaus a sweet soup and carp on the 
completion of the castle. In remem- 
brance thereof, these dainties were given 
to the poor of Bohemia on Maundy 
Thursday, but have been discontinued. 

The most celebrated in Britain is the 
White Lady of Avenel’, the creation of 
Sir Walter Scott. 

White Lady of German legend. A 
being dressed in white, who appears at 
the castle of German princes to forebode 
a death. She last appeared, it is said, in 


‘White Lies 


1297 


White Water-lotus 


1879, just prior to the death of Prince 
Waldemar. Shecarries a bunch of keys 
at her side, and is always dressed in 
white. The first instance of this appari- 
tion occurred in the sixteenth century, 
and the name given to the lady is Bertha 
von Rosenberg (in Bohemia). 

ν᾿ Twiee, we are told, she has been heard to 
speik, once in December, 1628, when ‘she said,“ I 
wait for judgment!” and once at the castle of 
Neuhaus. in Bohemia, when she said to the 
princes, “Tis ten o'clock.” 

The White Lady of Ireland. 
Banshee. 


White Lies. A conventional lie, such 
as telling a caller that Mrs. A. or Mrs. 
B. is not at home, meaning not “δῇ 
home ”’ to that particular caller. 

It 15 said that Dean Swift called on a“ friend,” 
and was told by Jeames that“ master is not at 
home.” After a time this very “friend” called 
on the dean, and Swift, opening the window, 
shouted, “Not at home.” When the friend ex- 
postwated, Swift said, “I believed your footman 
when he said his master was not at home ; surely 
you can believe the master himself when he tells 
you he is not at home.” 


White Moments of Life (72). The 
red-letter days or happy moments of 
life. The Romans used to mark un- 
lucky days, in their calendars, with 
black chalk, and lucky ones with white 
chalk ; hence Notare diem lactea gemma 
or alba means to mark a day as a lucky 
one, 

“These, my young friend, these are the white 
moments of one’s life."—Sir W. Scott: The Anti- 
query, clap. iii. 

White Moen (Anight of the). Samp- 
son Carrasco assumed this character and 
device, in order to induce Don Quixote 
to abandon knight errantry, and return 
home. The Don, being worsted, returned 
home, lingered a little while, and died. 
(Cervantes: Don Quixote, pt. ii. bk. iv. 
chap. 12, etc.) 


White Night (4). A sleepless night; 
hence the French phrase ‘‘ Passer wne 
nuit blanche.” 


White Poplar. This tree was 
originally the nymph Leuce, beloved by 
Pluto, and at death the infernal Zeus 
metamorphosed her into a white poplar, 
which was ultimately removed into 
Elysium. 

White Rose. The House of York, 
whose emblem it was. 

Tne White Rose. Cardinal de la Pole. 
(1400-1558. ) 

White Rose of England. So Perkin 
Warbeck or Osbeck was always ad- 
dressed by Margaret of Burgundy, the 
sister of Edward IV. (*-1449.) Lady 


82 


The 


Catherine Gordon, given by James IV. 
as wife to Perkin Warbeck, was called 
“The White Rose.’? She married three 
times more after the death of Warbeck. 
The White Rose of Raby. Cecily, wife 
of Richard, Duke of York, and mother of 
Edward IV. and Richard III. She was 
the youngest of twenty-one children. 


White Sheep [ 4/:-koin-loo]. A tribe 
of Turkomans, so called from their 
standards, The Sophive’an dynasty of 
Persia was founded by one of this tribe. 


White Squall. One which produces 
no diminution of light, in contradistinc- 
tion to a black squall, in which the clouds 
are black and heavy. 


White Stone. Days marked with a 
white stone. Days of pleasure; days to 
be remembered with gratification. The 
Romans used a white stone or piece of 
chalk to mark their lucky days with on 
the calendar. ‘Those that were unluck 
they marked with black charcval. (Sze 
RED-LETTER Day.) 


White Stone (Rev. ii. 17). Zo him 
that overcometh will I give... awhite 
stone ; and in the stone a new name [is] 
written which no man knoweth saving he 
that receiveth it [i.e. the stone]. In 
primitive times, when travelling was 
difficult for want of places of public ac- 
commodation, hospitality was exercised 
by private individuals to a great extent. 
When the guest left, the host gave him 
a small white stone cut in two; on one 
half the host wrote his name, and on 
the other the guest; the host gave the 
guest the half containing his [host’s] 
name, and rice versd. This was done that 
the guest at some future time might re- 
turn the favour, ifneeded. Our text says, 
“T will give him to eat of the hidden 
manna ’’—i.¢. I will feed or entertain 
him well, and I will keep my friendship, 
sacred, inviolable, and known only to 
himself. 


White Surrey. The horse of Rich- 

ard III. (See Horse.) 
“Saddle White Surrey for the field.” 
Shakespeare: Richard 111,, v.3. 

White Tincture. That prepara- 
tion which the alchemists believed would 
convert any baser metal into silver. It 
is also called the Stone of the Second 
Order, the Little Elixir, and the Little 
Magisterium, (Sze Rep TINCTURE.) 


White Water-lotus [ Pe-licn-kaou]. 
A secret society which greatly disturbed 
the empire of China in the reign of Kea- 
King. (1796-1820.) 


White Widow 1 


White Widow. The Duchess of 
Tyrconnel, wife of Richard Talbot, Lord- 
deputy of Ireland under James IL, 
created Duke of Tyrconnel a little before 
the king’s abdication. After the death 
of Talbot, a female, supposed to be his 
duchess, supported herself for a few 
days by her needle. Ske wore a white 
mask, aud dressed in white. (Lennant : 
London, p. 147.) 

White Witch (1). A cunning fellow ; 
one knowing in white art in coutradis- 
tinction to black art. 

“Two or three years past there came to these 


partsone... What the vulgar calla white witeh, 
a cunning man, and such like."—Sir ΤῊ, Scott: 
Frenilworth, clay. ix. 

White as Driven Snow. (Se 


SIMILES. ) 

White in the Eye. It is said that 
the devil has no white in his eyes, and 
hence the French locution, ‘* Celui gui 
wea point deblaneenVail.” ‘*Doyousee 
any white in my eye?” is asked by one 
who means to insinuate he is no fool or 
no knave—that is, he is not like the 
devil with no white in the eye. 


Whitebait Dinner. The ministerial 
dinner that announces the near close 
of the parliamentary session. Sir Robert 
Preston, M.P. for Dover, first invited 
his friend George Rose (Secretary of 
the Treasury) and an elder brother of 
the Trinity House to dine with him at 
his fishing cottage on the banks of 
Dagenham Lake. This was at the close 
of the session. Rose on one occasion 
proposed that Mr. Pitt, their mutual 
friend, should be asked to join them; 
this was done, and Pitt promised to re- 
peat his visit the year following, when 
other members swelled the party. This 
went on for several years, when Pitt 
suggested that the muster should be in 
future nearer town, and Greenwich was 
selected. Lord Camden next advised 
that each man should pay his quota. 
The dinner became an annual feast, and 
was until lately (1892) a matter of 
course. The time of meeting was 
Trinity Monday, or as near Trinity 
Monday as circumstances would allow, 
and therefore was near the close of the 
session. 


Whiteboys. A secret agrarian asso- 
ciation organised in Ireland about the 
year 1759. So called because they wore 
white shirts in their nightly expeditions, 
In 1787 a new association appeared, the 
members of which called themselves 
“ Right-boys.” The Whiteboys were 
originally called ‘‘ Levellers,’’ from their 


98 


Whittington 


throwing down fences and levelling en- 
closures. (See LEVELLERS.) 


Whitehall (London) obtained its 
name from the white and fresh appear- 
ance of the front, compared with the 
ancient buildings in York Place. (Bray- 
ley: Londoniana.) (See WuitE Hous.) 

Whitewashed. Said of a person 


who has taken the benefit of the Insol- 
vent Act. He went to prison covered 


with debts and soiled with ‘‘dirty 
ways :”’ he comes out with a clean bill 
to begin the contest of life afresh. 


Whit-leather. The skin of a horse 
cured and whitened for whip-thongs, 
hedging-gloves, and so on. 


“Thy gerdill made of whitlether whange... 
Is turned now to velvet,” 
MS. Lansd., 241. 


Whitsunday. White Sunday. The 
seventh Sunday after Easter, to com- 
memorate the ‘‘ Descent of the Holy 
Ghost’’ on the day of Pentecost. In 
the Primitive Church the newly-baptised 
wore white from Easter to Pentecost, 
and were called alba’ ti (white-robed), 
The last of the Sundays, which was also 
the chief festival, was called emphati- 
cally Domin’ica in Albis (Sunday in 
White). : : 

Another etymology is Jit or IVisdom 
Sunday, the day when the Aposties 
were filled with wisdom by the Holy 
Ghost. 

“This day Wit-sonday is cald. 

For wisdom and wit serene falda. 
Was zonen to the Apostles as this day.” 
Cambr, Univer. ΜΙ ΝΟ, Dd. i. 1, p. 234. 
(Compare I itten-agemote.) 

“We ought to kepe this our Witsonday bicause 
the law of God was ther of the Holy Wyglt or 
Ghost deliured gostly vnto vs."—Tuverner (1540). 

“This day is called Wytsonday hecause the 
Holy Ghost brought wytte and wysdom into 
Christis disciples...and filled them full of 
chostly wytte.”—In die Pentecostis (printed by 
Wynken de Worde). 

Whittington. 
WITTINGTON.) : 

Riley in his Menimenta Gildhalle 
Londenensis (p. xviii.) says achat was 
used at the time for “trading” (i.e. 
buying and selling), and that Whitting- 
ton made his money by achat, called 


(See under Cat; also 


acat, We have the word in cater, caterer. 


++ As much error exists respecting Dick Whit- 
tington, the following account will be useful. He 
was born in Gloucestershire, in the middle of the 
fourteenth century, and was the son of a knight 
of good property. He went to London to learn 
how to become a merchant. His master was 
a relative, and took a great interest in the hoy, 
who subsequently married Alice, his master’s 
daughter. He became very rich, and was four 
times Mayor of London, but the first time was 
before the office was created Lord Mayor by. 
Richard 11. He died in 1423, during his year ΟΣ 
office, about sixty-three years of age. 


Whittle 


1299 


Widow’s Piano 


Whittle (4). Aknife. (Anglo-Saxon 
hwytel, a knife ; hwet, sharp or keen.) 

“Walter de Aldeham holds land of the king 
in the More, in the county of Salop, hy the service 
of paying to the king yearly at his exchequer 
two knives [whittles], whereof one ought to he 
of that value or goodness that at the first stroke 
if would cut asunder in the middle a hasle rod 
of a year’s growth, and of the length of acubit, 
which service ought to he ... on the morrow 
of St. Michael... The said knives [whittles] to 
le delivered to the chamberlain to keep for the 
king’s use.’—Blount: Ancient Tenures. 

Whittle Down. To cut away with 
a knife or whittle; to reduce; to en- 
eroach. In Cumberland, underpaid 
schoolmasters used to be allowed JVhittle- 
gait—i.e. the privilege of knife and fork 
at the table of those who employ them. 

The Americans ‘‘ whittled down the 
royal throne;”’ ‘‘ whittled out a com- 
monwealth ; ”’ ‘* whittle down the forest 
trees ;’’ ‘‘whittle out a railroad;” 
‘‘whittle down to the thin end of no- 
thing.’’ (Saxon, hiwytel, a large knife.) 

“We have whittled down our Joss extremely, 
and will not allow a man more than 350 English 
slain out of 4,000.”— Walpole. 


Whitworth Gun. (See GUN.) 


Whole Duty cf Man. Tenison, 
Bishop of Lincoln, says the author was 
Dr. Chaplin, of University College, Ox- 
ford. (Lvelyn: Diary.) 

Thomas Hearne ascribes the author- 
ship to Archbishop Sancroft. 

Some think Dr. Hawkins, who wrote 
the introduction, was the author. 

The following names have also been 
suggested :—Lady Packington (assisted 
by Dr, Fell), Archbishop Sterne, Arch- 
bishop Woodhead, William Fulham, 
Archbishop Frewen (President of Mag- 
dalen College, Oxford), and others. 


Whole Gale (4). <A very heavy 
wind. The three degrees are a fresh 
gale, a strong gale, and a heavy or whole 
gale. 


Whom the Geds Love Die Young 
Herodotos}. Citedin Don Juan, cauto 
iv. 12 (death of Haidee). 


Wick, Wicked, and in French Jléche, 
Méchant. That the two English words 
and the two French words should have 
similar resemblances and similar mean- 
ings is a remarkable coincidence, es- 
pecially as the two adjectives are quite 
independent of the nouns in their ety- 
mology. ‘‘ Wick” is the Anglo-Saxon 
weoce, a Tush or reed, but ‘‘ wicked ”’ 
is the Anglo-Saxon wee or wac, vile. 
So ‘‘méche” is the Latin myxa, a wick, 
but ‘‘méchant’’ is the old French mes- 
chéant, unlucky. 


Wicked Bibie. (S.¢ BIBLE.) 


Wicked Prayer Book (716). Printed 
1686, octavo. ‘The Fourteenth Sunday 
after Trinity reads :— 


“Now the works of the flesh are manifest, 
which are these: adultery, fornication, unclean- 
ness, idolatry ... they who do these things shall 
inherit the kingdom of God.” 

(Of course, “shall inherit” should he shall not 
inherit.) 


Wicked Weed (716). Hops. 

“After the introduction into England of the 
wicked weed called hops..—fReturn to Edward 
1.1.8 Parliament, 1524. 

icket-gate. The entrance to the 
road that leadeth to the Celestial City. 
Over the portal is the inscription— 
““ KNOCK, AND IT SHALL BE OPENED UNTO 
you.” (Bunyan: Pilgrims Progress.) 

Wieliffe (John), called ‘‘ The Morn- 
ing Star of the Reformation.” (1324- 
1484.) 

Wide-awake. Felt hats are socalled 
by a pun, because they never have a nap 
at any time; they are always wide 
awake. 


Wide'nostrils (3 syl.). (French, 
Bringuenarilles.) A huge giant, who 
subsisted on windmills, and lived in the 
island of Tohu. When Pantagruel and 
his fleet reached this island no food could 
be cooked because Widenostrils had 
swallowed ‘‘ every individual pan, skil- 
let, kettle, frying-pan, dripping-pan, 
boiler, and saucepan in the land,’”’ and 
died from eating a lump of butter. Tohu 
and Bohu, two contiguous islands (in 
Hebrew, foil and confusion), mean lands 
laid waste by war. ‘The giant had eaten 
everything, so that there was ‘‘ nothing 
to fry with,’ as the French say—.e. 
nothing left to live upon. 


Widow. (Sze Grass WIDOW.) 


Widow (in Hudibras). The relict of 
Aminadab Wilmer or Willmot, an Inde- 
pendent, slain at Edgehill. She had 
£200 left her. Sir Hudibras fell in love 
with her. 


Widow Bird. A corruption of Why- 
daw bird. So called from the country 
of Whydaw, in Western Africa. The 
blunder is perpetuated in the scientific 
name given to the genus, which is the 
Latin Vid'ua, a widow. 


Widow’s Cap. This was a Roman 
custom. Widows were obliged to wear 
‘weeds’? for ten months. (Seneca: 
Epistles, \xv.) 

Widow's Piano. Inferior instru- 
ments sold as bargains; so called from 
the ordinary advertisement announcing 
that a widow lady is compelled to sell 


Widow's Port 


1300 


Wild 


her piano, for which she will take half- 
price. 


Widow’s Port. A wine sold for 
port, but of quite a different family. 
As a widow retains her husband’s name 
after her husband is taken away, so this 
mixture of potato spirit and some in- 
ferior wine retains the name of port, 
though every drop of port is taken 
from it. 

“We have all heard of widow's port, and of the 
instinctivedread all persons who have any respect 
for their health have for it."—The Times. 

Wie'land (2 syl.). Thefamous smith 
of Scandinavian fable. He and Amilias 
had a contest of skill in their handicraft. 
Wieland’s sword cleft his rival down to 
the thighs ; but so sharp was the sword, 
that Amilias was not aware of the cut 
till he attempted to stir, when he divided 
into two pieces. This sword was named 
Balmung. 


Wife is from the verb to weave. 
(Saxon wefan, Danish vave, German 
aeben, Whence weih, a woman, one who 
works at the distaff.) Woman is called 
the distaff. Hence Dryden calls Anne 
‘a distaff on the throne.’? While a girl 
was spinning her wedding clothes she 
was simply a spinster; but when this 
task was done, aud she was married, she 
became a wife, or one who had already 
woven her allotted task: 

Alfred, in his will, speaks of his male 
and female descendants as those of the 
spear-side and those of the spindle-side, 
a distinction still observed by the Ger- 
mans ; and hence the effigies on graves 
of spears and spindles. 


Wig. A variation of the French per- 
rugue, Latin pilucea, our periwig cut 
short. In the middle of the eighteenth 
century we meet with thirty or forty 
different names for wigs: as the arti- 
choke, bag, barrister’s, bishop’s, brush, 
bush [buzz], buckle, busby, chain, chan- 
cellor’s, corded wolt’s paw, Count Saxe’s 
mode, the crutch, the cut bob, the de- 
tached buckle, the Dalmahoy (a bob- 
wig worn by tradesmen), the drop, the 
Dutch, the full, the half-natural, the 
Jansenist bob, the judge’s, the ladder, 
the long bob, the Louis, the periwig, the 
pigeon’s wing, the rhinoceros, the rose, 
the scratch, the she-dragon, the small 
back, the spinach seed, the staircase, the 
Welsh, and the wild boar’s back. 

A bigwig. A magnate. Louis XIV. 
had long flowing hair, and the courtiers, 
out of compliment to the young king, 
wore perukes, When Louis grew older 
he adopted the wig, which very soon 


encumbered the head and shoulders of 
the aristocracy of England and France. 
Lord Chancellors, judges, and barristers 
still wear big wigs. Bishops used to 
wear them in the House of Lords till 1880, 

“ An ye fa’ over the cleugh, there will be but ae 
wig left in the parish, and that’s the minister's,” 
—Sir Walter Scott: The Antiquary. 

Make wigs. A rag ee who fancied 
himself ‘‘married to immortal verse,’’ 
sent his epic to Voltaire, asking him to 
examine it and give his “ candid opinion”’ 
of its merits. The witty patriarch of 
Ferney simply wrote on the MS. ‘‘ Make 
wigs, make wigs, make wigs,’’ and re- 
turned it to the barber-poet. (See ΤΟΙ, 
Stick to the cow.) 

Wig (4). A head. Similarly, the 
French callahead abinette. As “ Quelle 
binette !” or ‘Ila une drole de binette!” 
M. Binet was the court wig-maker in the 
reign of Louis XIV. ‘‘ i. Binet, qui 
Soit les perruques du roy, demeure Rue des 
Petits-Champs.’”? _(Almanack des ad- 
dresses sous Louis XIV.) 

“Fleas are not lobsters, dash my wig.” 

S. Butler: Hudibras. 

Wig. War (Anglo-Saxon). The word 
enters into many names of places, as 
Wigan in Lancashire, where Arthur is 
said to have routed the Saxons. 


Wight (7516 of) means probably chan- 
nel island. (Celtic gwy, water; gwyth, 
the channel.) The inhabitants used to 
be called Uuhtii or Gwythii, the inhabi- 
tants of the channel isle. 


“ According to the famous <Avglo- 
Saxon Chronicle, the island is so called 
from Wihtgar, great grandson of King 
Cerdic, who conquered it. All eponymic 
names—that is, names of persons, like 
the names of places, are more fit for 
fable than history : as Cissa, to account 
for Cissanceaster (Chichester) ; Horsa to 
account for Horsted ; Hengist to account 
for Hengistbury ; Brutus to account for 
Britain ; and so on. 


Wig’wam’. An Indian hut (America). 
The Knisteneaux word is wigwaum, and 
the Algonquin wéhou-om-ut, contracted 
into wekouom (ou =w, as in French), 
whence wéhkwoim. 


Wild (Jonathan), the detective, born 
at Wolverhampton, in Staffordshire. 
He brought to the gallows thirty-five 
highwaymen, twenty-two housebreakers, 
and ten returned convicts. He was him- 
self hanged at Tyburn for housebreak- 
ing ‘‘amidst the execrations of an en- 
raged populace, who pelted him with 
stones to the last moment of his 


Wild Boar 


existence.’’ (1682-1725.) Fielding has a 
novel entitled Jonathan Wild. 


Wild Boar. An emblem of warlike 
fury and merciless brutality. 


Wild Boy of Hamelin or Jan of 
Nature, found in the forest of Hertswold, 
Hanover. He walked on all fours, 
climbed trees like a monkey, fed on grass 
and leaves, and could never be taught 
to articulate a single word. Dr. Ar- 
buthnot and Lord Monboddo sanctioned 
the notion that this poor boy was really 
an unsophisticated specimen of the genus 
homo; but Blumenbach showed most 
conclusively that he was born dumb, of 
weak intellect, and was driven from his 
home by a stepmother. He was dis- 
covered in 1725, was called Peter the 
Wild Boy, and died at Broadway Farm, 
near Berkhampstead, in 1785, at the 
supposed age of seventy-three. 


Wild Children. 

(1) Peter the Wild Boy. (See above.) 

(2) Mlle. Lablanec, found by the vil- 
lagers of Soigny, near Chalons, in 1731; 
she died at Paris in 1785, at the supposed 
age of sixty-two. 

(3) A child captured by three sports- 
men in the woods of Cannes (France) in 
1798. (See World of Wonders, p. 61, 
Correspondence.) 


Wild-goose Chase. A hunt after a 
mare’s nest. This chase has two de- 
fects: First, it is very hard to catch the 
goose ; and, secondly, it is of very little 
worth when it is caught. 

To lead one a wild-goose chase. Τὸ be- 
guile one with false hopes, or put one on 
the pursuit of something not practicable, 
or at any rate not worth the chase. 


Wild Huntsman. 

The German tradition is that a spec- 
tral hunter with dogs frequents the Black 
Forest to chase the wild animals. (Sir 
Walter Scott : Wild Huntsman.) 

The French story of Le Grand Veneur 
is laid in Fontainebleau Forest, and is 
considered to be “St. Hubert.”? (Father 
Matthieu.) 

The English name is ‘‘Herne the 
Hunter,’? who was once a keeper in 
Windsor Forest. In winter time, at 
midnight, he walks about Herne’s Oak, 
aud blasts trees and cattle. He wears 
horns, and rattles a chain in a ‘most 
hideous manner.” (Merry Wives of 
Windsor, iv. 4.) 

Another legend is that a certain Jew 
would not suffer Jesus to drink out of a 
horse-trough, but pointed to some water 
in a hoof-print as good enough for ‘‘ such 


1301 


Wilfrid 


an enemy of Moses,’’ and that this man 
is the ‘‘ Wild Huntsman.” (Kuhn von 
Schwarz: Nordd. Sagen, p. 499.) 

Wild Oats. He is sowing his wild 
oats—indulging the buoyant folly of 
youth ; living in youthful dissipation. 
The idea is that the mind is a field of 
good oats, but these pranks are wild oats 
or weeds sown amongst the good seed, 
choking it for a time, and about to die 
out and give place to genuine corn. The 
corresponding French phrase is ‘‘ Jeter 
ses premiers faux,’ which reminds us of 
Cicero’s expression, ‘* Nondwn illi defer- 
buit adolescentia.’’ (See Oats.) 


Wild Women [ΠῚ Frauén] of 
Germany resemble the Ellé-maids of 
Scandinavia. Like them, they are very 
beautiful, have long flowing hair, and 
live in hills. (Sze WUNDERBURG.) 

Wild Women. Those who go in for 
“¢ women’s rights ’’? and general topsy- 
turvyism. Some smoke cigars in the 
streets, some wear knickerbockers, some 
stump the country as ‘“‘ screaming ora- 
tors,”’ all try to be as much like men as 
possible, 

“Let anyone commend to these female runag- 
ates quietness, duty, home-staying, and the whole 
cohort of wild women is like an angry beehive, 
which a rough hand has disturbed.”—Nineteenth 
Century, March, 1892, p. 403. 

Wild as a March Hare. The hare 
in spring, after one or two rings, will 
often run straight on end for several 
miles. This is especially the case with 
the buck, which therefore affords the 
best sport. 


Wilde. 4 John or Johnny Wilde is 
one who wears himself to skin and bone 
to add house to house and barn to barn. 
The tale is that John Wilde, of Roden- 
kerchen, in the isle of Riigen, found one 
day a glass slipper belonging to one of 
the hill-folks. Next day the little 
brownie, in the character of a merchant, 
came to redeem it, and John asked as 
the price “that he should find a gold 
ducat in every furrow he ploughed.” 
The bargain was concluded, and_ the 
avaricious hunks never ceased ploughing 
morning, noon, nor night, but died 
within twelve months from over-work. 
(Rigen tradition.) 

Wile away Time (not While). Itis 
the same word as “ guile,” ta ‘* heguile 
the time”’ (fall'ere tempus). 

“To wile each moment with a fresh delight.” 

Lowell: Legend of Brittany, part i. stanza 6. 

Wilfrid (St.). Patron saint of bakers, 
being himself of the craft. (634-709.) 

St. Wilfrid’s Needle is a narrow 


Wilhelm Meister 


passage in the crypt of Ripon cathedral, 
built by Odo, Archbishop of Canterbury, 
and used to try whether virgins deserve 
the name or not. It is said that none 
but virgins can pass this ordeal. 


Wilhelm Mei'ster (2 syl.). The 
first true German novel. It was by 
Goethe, who died 1832, aged eighty- 
three. 


Will not when They may. 7/iose 
who will not when they may, when they 
will they shall have nay. 

‘*Qui ne prend le bien quand il peut, 
il ne l’a pas quand il veut.” 

“Quand le bien vient, on le doit 
prendre.”’ 

‘*Saisir en tout l’occasion et l’d-propos 
est un grand élément de bonheur et de 
succes.” 

Wil'liam (2 syl.; in Jerusalem De- 
livered), Archbishop of Orange. An 
ecclesiastical warrior, who  besought 
Pope Urban on his knees that he might 
be sent in the crusade. He took 400 
armed men in his train from his own 
diocese. 

William, youngest son of William 
Rufus. He wore a casque of gold, and 
was the leader of a large army of British 
bow-men and Irish volunteers in the 
crusading army. (Zuasso: Jerusalem 
Delivered, bk. 111.) 

** English history teaches that Wil- 
liam Rufus was never married, (See 
ORLANDO FuRIOSO.) 

Belted Will. William, Lord Howard, 
warden of the Western Marches. (1563- 
1640.) 

“His Bilboa blade, by Marchmen felt, 

Hung ina broad and studded helt : 
Hence, in rude phrase, the borderers still 
Called noble Howard ‘ Belted Will.” 

Sir Walter Scott: Lay of the Last Minstrel, y. 16. 

St, William of Aquitaine was one of 
the soldiers of Charlemagne, and helped 
to chase the Saracens from Languedoc. 
In 808 he renounced the world, and died 
812. He is usually represented as a 
mailed soldier. 

St. William of Mallavaile or Maleval. 
A French nobleman of very abandoned 
life ; but, being converted, he went as 
pilgrim to Jerusalem, and on his return 
retired to the desert of Malavalle. He is 
depicted in a Benedictine’s habit, with 
armour lying beside him. (Died 1147.) 

St. William of Montpelier is repre- 
sented with a lily growing from his 
mouth, with the words Ave Maria in 
gold letters on it. 

St. William of Monte Virgine is drawn 
with a wolf by his side, (Died 1142.) 


1302 


William 

St. William of Norwich was the cele- 
brated child said to have been crucified 
by the Jews in 1137. He is represented 
as a child crowned with thorns, or cruci- 
fied, or holding a hammer and nails in 
his hands, or wounded in his side with a 
knife. (See Polyolbion, song xxiv.) 

’ In Percy’s /eliques (bk. i. 3) there 
is a tale of a lad named Hew, son of 
Lady Helen, of Merryland town (Milan), 
who was allured by a Jew’s daughter 
with an apple. She stuck him with a 
penknife, rolled him in lead, and cast 
him into a well. Lady Helen went in 
search of her boy, and the child’s ghost 
cried out from the bottom of the well— 

“The lead is wondrous heavy, mither, 

The well is wondrous deip ; 
A keen penknife sticks in my heirt, mither ; 
A word I dounae speik.” (See Huai). 

St. William of Roeschild is represented 
with a torch flaming on his grave. (Died 
1203. 

δι. Willian of York is depicted in 
pontificals, and bearing his archiepis- 
copal cross. (Died 1144.) 

William 1]. The body of this king 
was picked up by Purkess, a charcoal- 
burner of Minestead, and conveyed in a 
cart to Winchester. The name ot Purkess 
is still to be seen in the same village. 

* A Minestead churl, whose wonted trade 

Was burning charcoal in the glade, 
Outstretched amid the gorse 

The monarch found ; and in his wain 

He raised, and to St. Swithin’s fane 
Conveyed the bleeding corse.” W.S. Rose, 

William 11]. Tt was not known till 
the discovery of the correspondence of 
Cardonnel, secretary of Marlborough, by 
the Historical MS. Commission in 1869, 
that our Dutch king was a great eater. 
Cardonnel, writing from The Hague, 
October, 1701, to Under-Secretary Ellis, 
says—‘‘ It is a pity his majesty will not 
be more temperate in his diet. Should 
I eat so much, and of the same kinds, 
I dare say I should scarce have survived 
it so long, and yet I reckon myself none 
of the weakest constitutions.”’ 

William of Cloudes'lie (2 syl.). A 
noted outlaw and famous archer of the 
‘‘north countrie,”” (See CLYM OF THE 
CLouGH.) 

Willian of Newburgh (Gulielmus Neu- 
brigensis), monk of Newburgh in York- 
shire, surnamed Little, and sometimes 
ealled Gulielmus Parvus, wrote a histo 
in five books, from the Conquest to 1197, 
edited by Thomas Hearne, in three 
volumes, octavo, Oxford, 1719. The 
Latin is good, and the work ranks with 
that of Malmesbury. William of New- 
burgh is the first writer who rejects 
Geoffrey of Monmouth’s Trojan descent 


William I. 1303 ‘Winchester 
of the old Britons, which he calls a “ fig- The tradition. The mandarin had an 


ment made more absurd by Geoffrey’s 
impudent and impertinent lies.’’ He is, 
however, quite as fabulous an historian 
as the ‘‘impudent’’ Geoffrey. (1136- 
1208.) 

William I., King of Prussia and 


Emperor of Germany, was called by his 
detractors Kaiser Turtuffe. 


Willie-Wastle (ihe child’s game). 
Willie Wastle was governor of Hume 
Castle, Haddington. When Cromwell 
sent a summons to him to surrender, he 
replied — 

“Here T, Willie Wastle, 


Stand firm in my castle, 
And all the dogs in the town 


Shan't pull Willie Wastle down.” 
Willow. 70 handle the willow—i.e. 
the cricket bat. 
To wear the willow. To go into 


mourning, especially for a sweetheart or 
bride, Fuller says, ‘‘The willow is a 
sad tree, whereof such as have lost their 
love make their mourning garlands.” 
The psalmist tells us that the Jews in 
captivity ‘‘ hanged their harps upon the 
willows ”’ in sign of mourning. (cxxxvii.) 


Willow Garland. An emblem of 
being forsaken. ‘All round my hat I 
wear a green willow.’? So Shakespeare : 
“1 offered him my company to a willow- 
tree to make him a garland, 
as being forsaken.”? (JMuch Ado About 
Nothing, ii. 1.) The very term weeping 
willow will suffice to account for its 
emblematical character. 


Willow Pattern. To the right is 
a lordly mandarin’s country seat. It is 
two storeys high to show the rank and 
wealth of the possessor; in the fore- 
ground is a pavilion, in the background 
an orange-tree, and to the right of the 
pavilion a peach-tree in full bearing. 
The estate is enclosed by an elegant 
wooden fence. At one end of the bridge 
is the famous willow-tree, and at the 
other the gardener’s cottage, one storey 
high, and so humble that the grounds 
are wholly uncultivated, the only green 
thing being a small fir-tree at the back. 
At the top of the pattern (left-hand side) 
is an island, with a cottage; the grounds 
are highly cultivated, and much has been 
reclaimed from the water. The two birds 
are turtle-doves. The three figures on 
the bridge are the mandarin’s daughter 
with a distaff nearest the cottage, the 
lovers with a boat in the middle, and 
nearest the willow-tree the mandarin 
with a whip. 


only daughter named Li-chi, who fell in 
love with Chang, a young man who lived 
in the island home represented at the 
top of the pattern, and who had been 
her father’s secretary. The father over- 
heard them one day making vows of love 
under the orange-tree, and sternly for- 
bade the unequal match ; but the lovers 
contrived to elope, lay concealed for a 
while in the gardener’s cottage, and 
thence made their escape in a boat to 
the island home of the young lover. The 
enraged mandarin pursued them with a 
whip, and would have beaten them to 
death had not the gods rewarded their 
fidelity by changing them both into 
turtle-doves. The picture is called the 
willow pattern not only because it is a 
tale of disastrous love, but because the 
elopement occurred ‘‘ when the willow 
begins to shed its leaves.’’ 


Willy-nilly. Nolens volens ; willing 
or not. JWill-he, nill-he, where nill is 
wm negative, and will, just as nolens is 
n’-volens, 


Wilmington, invoked by Thomson 
in his Winter, is Sir Spencer Compton, 
Earl of Wilmington, the first patron of 
our poet, and Speaker of the House of 
Commons. 


Wilt or Welk, to wither. This 
is the Dutch and German welken (to 
fade). Spenser says, ‘When ruddy 
Pheebus ’gins to welk in west’’—.¢. 
fade in the west. 

“ A wilted debauchee is not a fruit of the tree 
of life.’—J. Cook: The Orient, p. 149. 

Wilt'shire (2 syl.) is Wilton-shire, 
Wilton being a contraction of Wily-town 
(the town on the river Wily). 

Win'chester. According to the 
authority given below, Winchester was 
the Camelect of Arthurian romance. 
Hanmer, referring to King Lear, ii. 2, 
says Camelot is Queen Camel, Somerset- 
shire, in the vicinity of which ‘‘are many 
large moors where are bred great quan- 
tities of geese, so that many other places 
are from hence supplied with quills and 
feathers.’’ Kent says to the Duke of 
Cornwall— 

“Goose, if I had you upon Sarum Plain, 

I'd drive ye cackling liome to Camelot.” 
With all due respect to Hanmer, it seems 
far more probable that Kent refers to 
Camelford, in Cornwall, where the Duke 
of Cornwall resided, in his castle of Tin- 
tag’el. He says, “If I had you on 
Salisbury Plain [where geese abound], I 
would drive you home to Tintagel, on 


Wind Egg 


1304 


Windmills 


the river Camel.’? Though the Camelot 
of Shakespeare is Tintagel or Camelford, 
yet the Camelot of King Arthur may be 
Queen Camel; and indeed visitors are 
still pointed to certain large entrench- 
ments at South Cadbury (Cadbury 
Castle) called by the inhabitants ‘‘ King 
Arthur’s Palace.”’ 

“Sir Balin’s sword was put into marble stone, 
standing as upright as a great millstone, and it 
swam down the stream to the city of Camelot— 
that is,in English, Winchester.”—Listory of Prince 
Arthur, 44, 

Wind Egg. An egg without a shell. 
Dr. Johnson’s notion that the wind egg 
does not contain the principle of life is 
no more correct than the superstition 
that the hen that lays it was impreg- 
nated, like the ‘‘ Thracian mares,’’ by 
the wind. The usual cause of such eggs 
is that the hen is too fat. 


Winds. Poctical names of the winds. 
The North wind, Aquilo or Bo’reas; 
South, Notus or Auster; Last, Eu'rus; 
West, Zephyr or Favonius; North-east, 
Arges’tés; North-west, Corus; South- 
east, Volturnus ; South-west, Afer ventus, 
Af'ricus, Africa’/nus, or Libs, ‘The 
Thra'scias is a north wind, but not due 
north. 

“ Boreas and Cecias, and Argestes loud, 

And Thrascias rend the woods, and seas upturn ; 

Notus and Afer, black with thunderous clouds, 

From Serralio’na, Thwart of these, as flerce, 

Forth rush .... Eurusand zephyr.... 

Sirocco and Libecchio [Libycus).” 

Milton: Paradise Lost, x. 699-705, 

Special winds, 

(1) The Evestan Winps are refresh- 
ing breezes which blow annually for 
forty days in the Mediterranean Sea, 
(Greek, et’os, a year.) 

(2) The Harmarran. A wind which 
blows periodically from the interior parts 
of Africa towards the Atlantic. It pre- 
vails in December, January, and Feb- 
ruary, and is generally ‘accompanied 
with fog, but is so dry as to wither vege- 
tation and cause human skin to peel off. 

(3) The Kuamsrn. A fifty days’ wind 
in Egypt, from the end of April to the 
inundation of the Nile. (Arabic for 
fifty.) 

(4) The Mistran. A violent north- 
west wind blowing down the Gulf of 
Lyons; felt particularly at Marseilles 
and the south-east of France. 

(5) The Pamprero blows in the sum- 
mer season, from the Andes across the 
pampas to the sea-coast. It is a dry, 
north-west wind. 


(6) The Puna Winps prevail for four 
months in the Puna (table-lands of Peru). 
The most dry and parching winds of any. 


When they prevail it is necessary to 
protect the face with a mask, from the 
heat by day and the intense cold of the 
night. 

(7) ΒΑΜΊΕΙ, or ϑιμοομ', A hot, suffo- 
cating wind that blows occasionally in 
Africa and Arabia. Its approach is in- 
dicated by a redness inthe air. (AraLic, 


samoon, from samma, destructive.) 


(8) The Srrecco. A wind from North- 
ern Africa that blows over Italy, Sicily, 
etc., producing extreme languor and 
mental debility. 

(9) The Sora’no of Spain, a south- 
east wind, extremely hot, and loaded 
with fine dust. It produces great un- 
easiness; hence the proverb, ‘‘ Ask no 


favour during the Solano.”’ (See TRaDE 
WINDs. ) 
To take or have the wind. To get or 


keep the upper hand. Lord Bacon uses 
the phrase. “Τὸ have the wind of a 
ship ᾽ is to be to the windward of it. 


Windfall. Unexpected legacy; 
money which has come de celo. Some 
of the English nobility were forbidden 
by the tenure of their estates to fell 
timber, all the trees being reserved for 
the use of the Royal Navy. Those trees, 
however, which were J/own down were 
excepted, and hence a good wind was 
often a great godsend. 


Windmills. Don Quixote de la 
Mancha, riding through the plains of 
Montiel, approached thirty or forty wind- 
mills, which he declared to Sancho Panza 
‘“were giants, two leagues in length or 
more.’’ Striking his spurs into Rosi- 
nante, with his lance in rest, he drove 
at one of the ‘‘monsters dreadful as 
Typheus.”? The lance lodged in the 
sail, and the latter, striking both man 
and beast, lifted them into the air, 
shivering the lance to pieces. When 
the valiant knight and his steed fell to 
the ground they were both much injured, 
and Don Quixote declared that the en- 
chanter Freston, ‘‘ who carried off his 
library with all the books therein,”’ had 
changed the giants into windmills “ἢ out 
of malice.’”’? (Cervantes: Don Quixote, 
bk. i. ch. viii.) 

To fight with windmills, To combat 
chimeras. The French have the same 
proverb, ‘‘ Se battre contre des moulins 
a vent.’ The allusion is, of course, to 
the adventure of Don Quixote referred 
to above. 

To have windmills in your head. Fan- 
cies, chimeras. Similar to ‘‘ bees in 


Windmill Street 


your bonnet” (q.2.). Sancho Panza 
says— 

“Did 1 not tell your worship they were wind- 
mills? and who could bave thought otherwise, 
except such as had windmills in their head? - 
Cervantes : Don Quixote, bk. 1. ch. Viil. 

Windmill Street. When Charnel 
chapel, St. Paul’s, was taken down by 
the Protector Somerset, in 1549, more 
than 1,000 cart-loads of bones were re- 
moved to Finsbury Fields, where they 
formed a large mound, on which three 
windmills were erected. It was from 
these mills that the street obtained its 
name. (Leigh Hunt.) 


Window. (Norwegian, vindue.) A 
French window opens like folding doors ; 
a sash window is in two parts, called 
sashes, one or both of which are made to 
slide up and down about half way. 


Wine. A magnum of wine is two 
quarts ; a tappit-hen of wine or rum is 
a double magnum; a jeroboam of wine 
or rum is a double “‘ tappit-hen”’ ; and 
a rehoboam (q.v.) is a double jeroboam. 


Wine. The French say of wine that 
makes you stupid, it is vin dane ; if it 
makes you maudlin, it is vi de cerf (from 
the notion that deer weep) ; if quarrel- 
some, it is vin de lion ; if talkative, it is 
vin de pie ; if sick, it is vin de pore ; if 
crafty, it is vin de renard ; if rude, it is 
vin de singe. (See below.) 

Win of ape (Chaucer). ‘‘I trow that 
ye have drunken win of ape "ἢ δ, wine 
to make you drunk; in French, vin de 
singe. There is a Talmud parable which 
says that Satan came one day to drink 
with Noah, and slew a lamb, a lion, a 
pig, and an ape, to teach Noah that man 
before wine is in him is a Zamb, when he 
drinks moderately he is a lion, when like 
a sot he is a swine, but after that any 
further excess makes him an ape that 
senselessly chatters and jabbers. 


Wine-month. (Anglo-Saxon, Win- 
monath.) The month of October, the 
time of vintage. 


Wine Mingled with Myrrh (Mark 
xv. 23). Called by the Romans Mur- 
rhina (vinum myrrha conditum), given 
to malefactors to intoxicate them, that 
their sufferings from crucifixion might 
be somewhat deadened. 

“*Ralernum * (that divina potio) Was flavoured 
with myrrh.” 

Win'trith, ThesameasSt. Boniface, 
the apostle of Germany, an Anglo-Saxon, 
killed by a band of heathens in 799. 


Wing, Wings. Wing of a house, 
wing of an army, wing of a battalion or 


1305 


Winter 


squadron, etc., are the side-pieces which 
start from the main body, as the wings 
of birds. 

Don't try to fly without wings. Attempt 
nothing you are not fit for. A French 
proverb. 

On the wing. Au vol, about to leave. 

To clip one’s wings. To take down 
one’s conceit; to hamper one’s action. 
In French, Jtogner les ailes [ἃ quelgw un). 

To lend wings. ΤῸ spur one’s speed. 


“This sound of danger lent me wings.” 
R. L. Stevenson. 


To take one under your wing. To 
patronise and protect. The aliusion is 
to a hen gathering her chicks under her 
wing. 

To take wing. To fly away ; to depart 
without warning. (French, s’envoler.) 


Wings of Azrael (Zhe). (Sve AZz- 
RAEL. ) 


Winged Rooks. Outwitted sharpers. 
A rook is a sharper, and a rookery the 
place of resort for sharpers. A rook is 
the opposite of a pigeon ; ἃ rook cheats, 
a pigeon is the one cheated. 

“This light, young, gay in appearance, the 
thoughtless youth of wit and pleasure — the 
pigeor rather than the rook—but the heart the 
same sly, shrewd, cold-blooded calculator.”—Sir 
W. Scott: Peveril of the Peak, chap. XXYlil. 


Win'ifred (S/.). Patron saint of 
virgins, because she was beheaded by 
Prince Caradoc for refusing to marry 
him. She was Welsh by birth, and the 
legend says that her head falling on the 

round originated the famous healing 
well of St. Winifred in Flintshire. She 
is usually drawn like St. Denis, carrying 
her head in her hand, Holywell, in 
Wales, is St. Winifred’s Well, celebrated 
for its ‘* miraculous’’ virtues. 


Winkle (Rip van). A Dutch colonist of 
New York. He met witha strange man 
in a ravine of the Kaatskill Mountains. 
Rip helps him to carry a keg, and when 
they reach the destination Rip sees a 
number of odd creatures p'aying nine- 
pins, but no one utters ἃ word, Master 
Winkle seizes the first opportunity to 
take a sip at the keg, falls into a stupor, 
and sleeps for twenty years. On wak- 
ing, his wife is dead and buried, his 
daughter is married, his native village 
has. been remodelled, and America 
has become independent. (Washington 
Irving.) 

Wint-monath [/ind-month}. 
Anglo-Saxon name for November. 


The 


Winter, Summer. We say of an 
old man, ‘‘ His lite has extended to a 


é 


. 


Winter's Tale 


1306 


Wishart 


hundred winters ;’’ but of a blooming 
girl, ‘‘ She has seen sixteen summers.”’ 


Winter's Tale (Shakespeare). Taken 
from the Pleasant History of Dorastus 
and Fawnia by Robert Green. Dorastus 
is called by Shakespeare Florizel and 
Doricles, and Fawnia is Perdita. Leontes 
of the Winter's Tale is Egistus in the 
novel, Polixenes is Pandosto, and Her- 
ini‘one is Bellaria, 


Wipple-tree or Whipultre. Men- 
tioned in Chaucer’s Anight’s Tale, is 
the cornel-tree or dogwood (Cornus 
sanguinea) (= whiffle-tree, from whiffle 
= to turn). 


Wisdom-tooth. The popular name 
for the third molar in each jaw. Wisdom- 
teeth appear between 17 and 25. 


Wisdom of Many and the Wit of 
One (116). This is Lord John Russell's 
definition of a proverb. 

Wise (The). 

ALBER? II., Duke of Austria, called 
The Lame and Wise. (1289, 1330-1358.) 

ALFonso X, (or IX.) of Leon, and IV. 
of Castile, called Zhe Wise and The 
Astronomer, (1203, 1252-1235.) 

ABEN-ESRA, a Spanish rabbi, born at 
Toledo. (1119-1174.) 

Cuaruts V. of France, called Le Sage. 
(1337, regent 1358-1360, king 1364-138.) 

CueE-tsov, founder of the fourteenth 
dynasty of China, called Hou-pe-lae (the 
model ruler), and his sovereignty Ze 
Wise Government, (1278-1295.) 

CoMTE DE LAS Cases, called Le Sage. 
(1766-1812.) 

FREDERICK, Elector of Saxony. (1463, 
1544-1554.) 

Joun VY. of Brittany, called The Good 
and Wise. (1889, 1399-1442.) 

@ Nathan the Wise. A drama by 
Lessing, based on a story in the De- 
cameron. (Day x., Novel 3.) 


Wise asa Serpent. This refers to 
the serpent which tempted Eve, or more 
probably to the old notion that serpents 
were extremely wise. 


Wise as Solomon. (See SmMLFs.) 


Wise as the Mayor of Banbury. 
A blundering Sir William Curtis. The 
mayor referred to insisted that Henry 
111. reigned in England before Henry U1. 


The following isa fict which happened to my- 
self in lss0. I was ona visit toa country mayor 
of great wealth, whose house was full of most 
exquisite Works ofart, I was particularly struck 
with a choice china figure, when the mayor told 
me how many guineas he had given for it, and 
added, ‘‘Of course you, know ‘who’ it is meant 
for. It is John Knox signing Magna’Charta.” 


Wise as the Women of Mungret. 
At Mungret, near Limerick, was a 
famous monastery, and one day a depu- 
tation was sent to it from Cashel to try 
the skill of the Mungret scholars. The 
head of the monastery had no desire to 
be put to this proof, so they habited 
several of their scholars as women, and 
sent them forth to waylay the deputa- 
tion. The Cashel professors met one 
and another of these ‘‘ women,’’ and 
asked the way, or distance, or hour of 
the day, to all which questions they 
received replies in Greek, Thunder- 
struck with this strange occurrence, 
they resolved to return, saying, ‘‘ What 
must the scholars be if even the towns- 
women talk in Greek? ”’ 


Wise Men or Wise Women, 
tune-tellers. 


Wise Men of Greece. 
SAGEs.) 

Wise Men of the East. The three 
Magi who followed the guiding star to 
Bethlehem. They are the patron saints 
of travellers. (See Maat, SEVEN SaGEs.) 


Wise Men of Gotham (7.6). (See 
GormsM.) 


Wiseacre. A corruption of the Ger- 
man weissager (a soothsayer or prophet). 
This, like the Greek sophisim, has quite 
lost its original meaning, and is applied 
to dunces, wise only ‘‘in their own 
conceit.”’ 

There is a story told that Ben Jonson, 
at the Devil’s Tavesn, in Fleet Street, 
said to a country gentleman who boasted 
of his landed estates, ‘‘ What care we 
for your dirt and clocs? Where you 
have an acre of land, I have ten acres of 
wit.’? The landed gentleman retorted 
by calling Ben ‘‘ Good Mr. Wiseacre.’’ 
The story may pass for what it is worth, 


Wisest Man of Greece. So the 
Delphic oracle pronounced Soc'ratés to 
be, and Socrates modestly made answer, 
‘Tis because I alone of all the Greeks 
know that I know nothing.’’ 


Wish-wash. A reduplication of wash. 
Any thin liquor for drinking. 

Wishy-washy. <A reduplication of 
washy. Very thin, weak, and poor; 
wanting in substance or body. 


Wishart (George). One of the early 
reformers of Scotland, condemned to the 
stake by Cardinal Beaton. While the 
fire was blazing about him he said: ‘‘ He 
who from yon high place beholdeth me 
with such pride shall be brought low, 


For- 


(See SEVEN 


Wishing-bone 


even to the ground, before the trees 
which supplied these faggots have shed 
their leaves.”” It was March when 
Wishart uttered these words, and the 
cardinal died in June. (See Summons.) 


Wishing-bone. (See Merny- 
THOUGHT.) 
Wishing-cap. Fortuna’tus had an 


inexhaustible purse and a wishing-cap, 
but these gifts proved the ruin of himself 
and his sons. ‘The object of the tale is 
to show the vanity of human prosperity. 


Wishing-coat. Willie Wynkin’s 
wishing-coat. An Irish locution. 

“T wish I bad here Willie Wynkin’s wishing- 
coat."—Howard Pyle: Robin Hood, p. 200. 

Wishing-rod (712) of the Nibelungs 
was of pure gold. Whoever had it 
could keep the whole world in subjec- 
tion. It belonged to Siegfried, but 
when the ‘‘ Nibelung hoard’ was re- 
moved to Worms this rod went also. 


“And fgets IS was lying the wishing-rod of 
Lol, 
Which whoso could discover might in subjec- 
tion hold 
All this wide world as master, with all that 
dwell therein.” 
Lettsom’s Nibelungen-Lied, st. 1160. 


Wisp. Willo’ the Wisp. 
FAtuvs.) 

Wisp cf Straw (4). Sign of danger. 
Often hung under the arch of a bridge 
undergoing repairs, to warn watermen ; 
sometimes in streets to warn passengers 
that the roof of a house is under repair. 
The Romans used to twist straw round 
the horns of a tossing ox or bull, to warn 
passers-by to beware, hence the phrase 
Senwn habet in cornu, the man is crochety 
or dangerous. The reason why straw 
(or hay) is used is because it is readily 
come-at-able, cheap, and easily wisped 
into a bundle visible some long way off. 


Wit. To wit, viz. that is to say. A 
translation of the French savoir. Wit 
is the Anglo-Saxon witan (to know). I 
divide my property into four parts, ¢o 
wit, or savoir, or namely, or that is to 
θα. τ" 


Wits. (Sze under FIVE.) 


Witch. By drawing the blood of a 
witch you deprive her of her power of 
sorcery. Glanvil says that when Jane 
Brooks, the demon of Tedworth, be- 
witched a hoy, his father scratched her 
face and drew blood, whereupon the boy 
instantly exclaimed that he was well. 


“ Blood will I draw on thee ; thou art a witch.” 
Shakespeare: 1 Henry V1.,1. 5. 


(See Iants 


Five wits. 


1307 


δ ὡς 
Witenagemot 


Hammer for Witches (Malleus Mate- 
Jicarum). A treatise drawn up by 
Heinrich Institor and Jacob Sprenger, 
systematisivg the whole doctrine of 
witchcraft, laying down a regular form 
of trial, and a course of examination. 
Innocent VIII. issued the celebrated bull 
Siwumis Desiderantes in 1484, directing 
inquisitors and others to put to death 
all practisers of witchcraft and other 
diabolical arts. 

~ Dr. Sprenger computes that as 
many as nine millions of persons have 
suffered death for witchcraft since the 
bull of Innocent. (Life of Mohammed.) 
As late as 1705 two women were exe- 
cuted at Northampton for witchcraft. 


Witch-finder. Matthew Hopkins, 
who, in the middle of the seventeenth 
century, travelled through the eastern 
counties to find out witches. At last 
Hopkins himself was tested by his own 
rule. Being cast into a river, he floated, 
was declared to be a wizard, and was 
put to death. 
Witches.) 


Witch Hazel. A shrub supposed to 
be efficacious in discovering witches. A 
forked twig of the hazel was made into 
a divining-rod for the purpose. 


Witch of Endor. A diving woman 
consulted by Saul when Samuel was 
dead. She called up the ghost of the 
prophet, and Saul was told that his 
death was at hand. (1 Sam. xxviii.) 


Witch’s Bridle. An instrument of 
torture to make obstinate witches con- 
fess. (Pitcairn, vol. i. part ii. p. 50.) 
(See WAKING A WITCH.) 

Witches’ Sabbath. The muster at 
night-time of witches and demons to con- 


coct mischief. The witch first anointed 
her feet and shoulders with the fat of a 


murdered babe, then mounting a broom- 


stick, distaif, or rake, made her exit by 
the chimney, and rode through the air 
to the place of rendezvous. The as- 
sembled witches feasted together, and 
concluded with a dance, in which they 
all turned their backs to each other. 


Witcherafi. The epidemic demon- 
pathy which raged in the fifteenth, 
sixteenth, and seventeenth centuries. 


Witenagemot. The Anglo-Saxon 
parliament. 


“The famous assembly of our forefathers was 
called by various names [as] Mycel Gemot (or great 
meeting); the Witenagemot (or meeting of the 
wise); and sometimes the Mycel Getheaht (or 
great thought).—Freeman: The Norman Conquest, 
ὙΠ 


(See above, Hammer 70)" 


Witham 


1308 


Wokey 


Witham. You were born, I suppose, 
at Little Witham. Areproof to a noodle. 
The pun, of course, is on little wit. 
Witham is in Lincolnshire. 


ἜΤ will be sworn she was not born at Wittham, 
for Gaffer Gibbs .. . says she could not turn up 
a single lesson like a Christian.’—Sir Walter 
Scott: Heart of Mid-Lothian, chap, Xxxil. 

Puns of this sort are very common. 
(See BEDFORDSHIRE, Nop, DvuNcgE, 
CRIPPLEGATE, SHANKS’ Naa, etc.) 


Withe (1 syl.). When Delilah asked 
Samson what would effectually bind 
him he told her ‘‘green withes,’’ but 
when she called in the Philistines he 
snapped his bonds like tow. Also spelt 
with. A boy, being asked what part of 
speech is with, replied a noun, and being 
reproved for ignorance made answer: 
‘‘ Please, sir, Samson was bound with 
seven withs,”’ 

“Ttseems impossible that Samson can be held 
by such green withes [1.6. that a great measure 
can be carried by such petty shifts]."—The Times. 

Withers of a Horse (716) are the 
muscles which unite the neck and shoul- 
ders. The skin of this part of a horse is 
often galled by the pommel of an ill- 
fitting saddle, and then the irritation of 

. the saddle makes the horse wince. In 
1 Henry IV, ii. 1, one of the carriers 
gives direction to the ostler to ease the 
saddle of his horse, Cut, ‘‘I prythee, 
Tom, beat Cut’s saddle . . . the poor 
jade is wrung on the withers,” that is, 
the muscles are wrung, and the skin 
galled by the saddle. And Hamlet says 
(iii. 2): 

“Let the galled jade wince, our withers are un- 
wrung.” 

That is, let those wince who are galled; 

as for myself, my withers are not wrung, 

and I am not affected by the ‘‘ bob.” 


Within the Pale. (See wieder PALE.) 


Witney (Oxfordshire) is the Anglo- 
Saxon /liten-ey, the island of Wise- 
men—i.é. of the Witenagemot or national 
parliament. 


Wit'tington. (See WHITTINGTON.) 


“ Beneath this stone lies Wittington, 
Sir Richard rightly named, 
Who three times Lord Mayor served in London, 
In which he ne’er was blamed. 
He rose from indigence to wealth 
By industry and that. 
For lo! he scorned to gain by stealth 
What he got by a cat.” 
Epitaph (destroyed by the fire of London). 


Witwold. 4 Sir Jerry Witwold. A 
pert, talkative coxcomb, vain of a little 
learning ; one whoswims with the stream 
of popular opinion, and gives his judg- 
ment on men and books as if he were Sir 
Oracle. A great pretender to virtue and 


modesty, like Mr. Pecksniff, but always 
nosing out smut and obscenity, which he 
retails with virtuous indignation. 


Wives of Literary Men. The fol- 
lowing literary men, among many others, 
made unhappy marriages : 


ADDISON, LYTTON. 
ARISTOTLE. MILTON (first wife). 
BACON (LORD), MOLIBRR. 
BOCCAccLo, MORR. 

BYRON, PITTACUS. 

DANTR. RACLNE. 

DICKRNS. ROUSSEAU (J. J.). 


DURER (ALBERT), SCALIGER (both 


EURIPIDES. wives). 

GARRICK, SHAKESPEARE, 
HAYDN. SHELLEY (first wife), 
HOOKER, 


SocRATES, 
5S tLK. 
STERNE. 


JOHNSON (DR... 
JONSON (BEN). 


KNOX. . W YCHERLEY (first 
LILLy (second wife). wife). 
Wo! Stop! (addressed to horses). 


‘““Ho!” or “Hoa!” was formerly an 
exclamation commanding the knights at 
tournaments to cease from all further 
action. (See Woo’sH.) 

“Scollers,as they read much of love,so when 
they once fall in love, there is no ho with them 
till they have their love.”—Cvbler of Canterburie 
(1608), 

Woo’ or Woo’e. Stop, addressed to a 
horse. The Latin word οὐ δ has the same 
meaning. ‘Thus Horace (1 Sat. v. 12) ; 
“ Ohe, gam satis est.” 


Woo'sh, when addressed to horses, 
means ‘‘ Bear to the left.’’ In the West 
of England they say /Voag—i.e. wag off 
(Anglo-Saxon, woh, a bend or turn). 
Woo’sh is ‘* Move off a little.”’ 


Woo-tee Dynasty. The eighth 
Imperial dynasty of China, established 
in the south Liou-yu. A cobbler, having 
assassinated the two preceding monarchs, 
usurped the crown, and took the name 
of Woo-tee (King Woo), a name assumed 
by many of his followers. 


Woden. Another form of Odin (ῳ.1..). 
The word is incorporated in Wodens- 
bury (Kent), Wednesbury (Suffolk), 
Wansdyke (Wiltshire), Wednesday, etc. 


Woe to Thee, Ο Land, when thy king 
is a child. This famous sentence is from 
Keclesiastes x. 6. Often quoted in Latin, 
Ve@ terris ubi rex est puer. 

Woful. Knight of the Woful Coun- 
tenance. The title given by Sancho Panza 
to Don Quixote. (Bk. iii. chap. v.) After 
his challenge of the two royal lions (pt. 
ii, bk. i. chap. xvii.), the adventurer 
called himself Anight of the Lions, 


Wokey. Wicked as the Witch of 
Wokey. Wookey-hole is a noted cavern 
in Somersetshire, which has given birth 
to as many weird stories as the Sibyls’ 


Wolf 


1309 


Wolf 


Cave in Italy. The Witch of Wokey 
was metamorphosed into stone by a 
‘“Jerned wight’? from Gaston, but left 
her curse behind, so that the fair damsels 
of Wokey rarely find ‘‘a gallant.” 
(Percy: Reliques, iii. 14.) 


Wolf (in music). In almost all 
stringed instruments (as the violin, organ, 
piano, harp, ete.) there is one note that 
is not true, generally in the bass string. 
This false note is by musicians called a 
“‘ wolf.”’ 

* The squeak made in reed instru- 
ments by unskilful players is termed a 
“* soose.”” 

“Nature bath implanted so inveterate a hatred 
atweene the wolfe and the sheepe, that, being 
dead, yet in the operation of Nature appeareth 
there a sufficient trial of their discording nature ; 
so that the enmity hetweene them seemeth not 
to dye with their bodies ; for if there he put upon 
a harpe... strings made of the intralles of a 


sheepe, and amongst them... one made of the 
intralles of a wolfe... the musician... cannot 


recoucile them toa unity and concord of sounds, 
s) discording is that string of the wolfe.”"—Ferie: 
Blazon of Gentrie (1580). 

** Here Mr. Ferne attributes the 
musical ‘‘ wolf” to a wolf-gut string ; 
but the real cause is a faulty interval. 
Thus, the interval between the fourth 
and fifth of the major scale contains nine 
commas, but that between the fifth and 
the sixth only eight. Tuners generally 
distribute the defects, but some musicians 
prefer to throw the whole onus on the 
“wolf”? keys. 


Wolf. (Anglo-Saxon, τ.) 
Fenris, The wolf that scatters venom 


through air and water, and will swallow 
Odin when time shall be no more. 


Skall, The wolf that follows the sun 
and moon, and will swallow them ulti- 
mately. (Scandinavian mythology.) 

The Wolf. So Dryden calls the Pres- 
bytery in his Hind and Panther. 

“Unkennelled range in thy Polonian plains, 

A ftiercer foe the insatiate Wolf remains.” 

She-wolf of France. Isabella le Bel, 
wife of Edward 11. According to a tra- 
dition, she murdered the king by burning 
his bowels with a hot iron, or by tearing 
them from his body with her own hands. 
© She-wolf of France, with unrelenting fangs, 

That tear’st the bowels of thy mangled mate.” 

Gray: The Bard. 

Between dog and wolf. In Latin, ** Tiz- 
ter canem et lupwn”’ ; in French, ‘‘ Entre 
chicn et loup.”? Thatis, neither daylight 
nor dark, the blind man’s holiday. 
Generally applied to the evening dusk. 


Dark as a wolf’s mouth, Pitch dark. 
He has seenawolf. Said of a person 


who has lost his voice. Our forefathers 
used to say that if a man saw a wolf 
before the wolf saw him he became dumb, 
at least for a time. 
“ Vox quoque Mocrin 
Jam fugit ipsa ; lupi Meerin vide’re prio’res.” 
Virgil: Bucolica, eclogue ix. 

“Our young companion has seen a wolf,’ said 
Lady Hameline, ‘and has lost his tongue in con- 
sequence.’”’—Scott ; Quentin Durward, ch. xviii. 

To see a wolf is also a good sign, inas- 
much as the wolf was dedicated to Odin, 
the giver of victory. 

He put his head into the wolf’s mouth. 
He exposed himself to needless danger. 
The allusion is to the fable of the crane 
that put its head into a wolf’s mouth in 
order to extract a bone. The fable is 
usually related of a fox instead of a 
wolf. (Hrench.) 

Holding awolf by the ears. So Augus- 
tus said of his situation in Rome, mean- 
ing it was equally dangerous to keep 
hold or to let go. Similarly, the British 
hold of Ireland is like that of Augustus. 
The French use the same locution: Zenir 
le loup par les oreilles. 

To cry ““ Wolf!’ To give a false 
alarm. The allusion is to the well- 
known fable of the shepherd lad who 
used to cry ““ Wolf! ’’ merely to make fun 
of the neighbours, but when at last the 
wolf came no one would believe him. 


In Chinese history it is said that Yeu- 
wing, of the third Imperial dynasty, was 
attached to a courtesan named Pao-tse, 
whom he tried by various expedients to 
make laugh. At length he hit upon the 
following: He caused the tocsins to be 
rung as if an enemy were at the gates, and 
Pao-tse laughed immoderately to see the 
people pouring into the city in alarm. 
The emperor, seeing the success of his 
trick, repeated it over and over again; 
but at last an enemy really did come, 
and when the alarm was given no one 
paid attention to it, and the emperor 
was slain. (B.c. 770.) (Sce AMYCLa@AN 
SILENCE. ) 

To keep the wolf from the door. To 
keep out hunger. We say of aravenous 
person ‘‘ He has a wolf in his stomach,” 
an expression common to the French 
and Germans. Thus manger comme un 
loup is to eat voraciously, and wo/fs- 
magen is the German for a keen appetite. 


Wolf, Duke of Gascony. One of 
Charlemagne’s knights, and the most 
treacherous of all, except Ganelon. He 
sold his guest and his family. He wore 
browned steel armour, damasked with 
silver; but his favourite weapon was 


Wolf Men 


1310 


Wood 


the gallows. He was never in a rage, 
but cruel in cold blood. 

“Tt was Wolf, Duke of Gascony, who was the 
originator of the plan of tying wetted ropes round 
the temples of Lis prisoners, to make their eye- 
balls start from their sockets. It was he who 
had them sewed up in freshly-stripped_ bulls’ 
hides, and exposed to the sun till the hides in 
shrinking broke their hones.’—Croguemitaine, iii. 

Wolf Men. = Giraldus Cambrensis 
tells us (Opera, vol. v. p. 119) that 
Trishmen can be ‘* changed into wolves.’ 
Nennius asserts that the ‘' descendants of 
wolves are still in Ossory,’’ and ‘they 
retransform themselves into wolves when 
they bite.” (Wonders of £71, xiv.) 

‘t These Ossory men-wolves are of 
the race of Laighne Fxlaidh. 

Wolf-month or Wolf-monath. The 
Saxon name for January, because ‘‘ people 
are wont always in that month to be 
in more danger of being devoured by 
wolves than in any other.”’ (Verstegan.) 


Wolf’s-bane. The Germans call all 
poisonous herbs ‘‘banes,’”? and the 
Greeks, mistaking the word for ‘‘ beans,”’ 
translated it by /i’amoi, as they did 
‘“‘hen-bane’’ (Awos ku'amos). Woltf’s- 
bane is an aconite with a pale yellow 
flower, called therefore the whife-bane 
to distinguish it from the d/ve aconite. 
White-bean would be in Greek /es/os 
/:uamos, which was corrupted into ἐγ 5 
kuamos (wolf-bean) ; but botanists, see- 
ing the absurdity of calling aconite a 
‘“‘pean,’’ restored the original German 
word ‘‘ bane,’’ but retained the corrupt 
word /ikos (wolf), and hence the ridicu- 
lous term ‘‘ wolf’s-bane.” (H. Fox 
Talbot.) 

** This cannot be correct: (1) dave is 
not German; (2) huos kuamos would 
be hog-bean, not hen-bane; (3) How 
could Greeks mistranslate German? The 
truth is, wolf-bane is so called because 
meat saturated with its juice: was sup- 
posed to be a wolf-poison. 


Wolves. It is not true that wolves 
were extirpated from the island in the 
reign of Edgar. The tradition is based 
upon the words of William of Malmes- 
bury (bk. ii. ch. vili.), who says that the 
tribute paid by the King of Wales, con- 
sisting of 300 wolves, ceased after the 
third year, because ‘‘ xl se ulterius 
posse invenive professus’’ (because he 
could find no more—?.¢. in Wales) ; but 
in the tenth year of William I. we find 
that Robert de Umfraville, knight, held 
his lordship of Riddlesdale in Northum- 
berland by service of defending that 
part of the kingdom from ‘* wolves.”’ 
In the forty-third year of Edward III. 


Thomas Engarne held lands in Pitchley, 
Northamptonshire, by service of finding 
dogs at his own cost for the destruction 
of ‘‘ wolves’? and foxes, Even in the 
eleventh year of Henry VI. Sir Robert 
Plumpton held one bovate of land in the 
county of Notts by service of "" frighting 
the wolves ”’ in Shirewood Forest. 


Wonder. A nine days’ wonder. 
Something that causes a sensational 
astonishment for a few days, and is then 
placed in the limbo of ‘‘ things forgot.’’ 
Three days’ amazement, three days’ dis- 
cussion of details, and three days of sub- 
sidence. (See NINE, and SEVEN.) 

“ The eighth wonder. The palace of 
the Escurial in Toledo, built by Felipe 11. 
to commemorate his victory over the 
French at St. Quentin. It was dedicated 
to San Lorenzo, and Juan Baptista de 
Toledo, the architect, took a gridiron 
for his model—the bars being repre- 
sented by rows or files of buildings, 
and the handle by a church. It has 
1,860 rooms, 6,200 windows and doors, 
80 staircases, 73 fountains, 48 wine cel- 
lars, 51 bells, and 8 organs. Its cir- 
cumference is 4,809 feet (nearly a mile), 
Escurial is scovia ferri, iron dross, be- 
cause its site is that of old iron works. 
(See TUILERIES. ) 

An cighth wonder. A work of extra- 
erdinary mechanical ingenuity, such as 
the Great Wall of China, the dome of 
Chosroes in Madain, St. Peter’s of 
Rome, the Menai suspension bridge, 
the Thames tunnel, the bridge over the 
Niagara, Eddystone lighthouse, the 
Suez Canal, the railroad over Mont 
Cenis, the Atlantic cable, ete. 

“1 The Three Wonders of Babylon. 

The Palace, eight miles in circum- 
ference. 

The Hanging Gardens. 

The Tower of Babel, said by some 


| Jewish writers to be twelve miles in 


height! Jerome quotes coutemporary 
authority for its being four miles high. 
Strabo says its height was 660 feet. 


Wonder-worker. St. Gregory, of 
Neo-Cesare’a, in Pontus. So called be- 
cause he ‘‘ recalled devils at his will, 
stayed a river, killed a Jew by the mere 
effort of his will, changed a lake into 
solid earth, and did many other wonder- 
ful things.”’ (See THAUMATURGUS ) 


Woed. Knight of the Wood or Knight 
of the Mirrors. So called because his 
coat was overspread with tumerous 
small mirrors. It was Sampson Czr- 
rasco, a bachelor of letters, wio adopted 


Wood. 


the disguise of a knight under the hope 
of overthrowing Don Quixote, when he 
would have imposed upon him the 
penalty of returning to his home for 
two years; but it so happened that Don 
Quixote was the victor, and Carrasco’s 
scheme was abortive. As Anight of the 
White Moon Carrasco again challenged 
the Man’chegan lunatic, and overthrew 
him ; whereupon the vanquished knight 
was obliged to return home, and quit 
the profession of knight-errantry for 
twelve months. Before the term ex- 
pired he died. (Cervantes : Don Quixote, 
pt. 0. bk. i. 11, ete. ; bk. iv. 12.) 


Wood. Don’t ery [or halloo] till you 
are out of the wood. Do not rejoice for 
having escaped danger till the danger 
has passed away. 


Wood's Halfpence. A penny coined 
by William Wood, to whom George I. 
granted letters patent for the purpose. 
(See DRAPIER’S LETTERS.) 

“Sir Walter’s [Scott] real belief in Scotch one- 
pound notes may he advantageously contrasted 
with Swift's forced frenzy about Wood's half- 
pence, more especially as Swift really did under- 
Stand the defects of Wood's scheme, and Sir 
Walter was absolutely ignorant of the currency 
controversy in which he engaged,’—The Times. 

Woodbind. The bindweed or wild 
convolvulus, This is quite a different 
plant to the woodbine. It is a most 
troublesome weed in orchards, as its 
roots run to a great depth, and its long, 
climbing stalks bind round anything 
near it with persistent tenacity. It is 
oue of the most difficult weeds to ex- 
tirpate, as every broken fragment is apt 
to take root. 


Woodbine. The honeysuckle or bee- 
wort; or perhaps the convolvulus. 


: * Where the bee 
Strays diligent, and with extracted balm 
Of fragrant woodbine loads his little thigh.” 
Phillips. 
Shakespeare says— 
*So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle 
Gently entwist.” 
Midsummer Night's Dream, iv. 1. 
Gone where the woodbine twineth. To 
the pawnbroker’s, up the spout, where, 
in Quebec, ‘‘on cottage walls the wood- 
bine may be seen twining.”” (4 corre- 
spondent of Quebec supplied this.) 


Woodcock (A). A fool is so called 
from the supposition that woodcocks 
are without brains. /Polonius tells his 
daughter that protestations of love are 
‘«springes to catch woodcocks.”? (Shake- 
speare : Hamlet, i. 3.) 


Wooden Horse (Zhe). Babiéca, 


1311 


Wooden Sword 


Peter of Provence had a wooden horse 
named Babiéca. (See CLAVILEN 0.) 


“This very day may be seen in the king’s ar- 
moury the identical peg with which Peter of 
Provence turned his Wooden Horse, which 
carried him through the air. It is rather b gger 
than the pole of a coach,and stands near Ba- 
bieca’s saddle.”’—Don Quixote, pt. 1. DK. iv. 19. 


Wooden Horse (70 ride the). To 
sail aboard a ship, brig, or boat, ete. 

“He felt a little out of the way for riding the 
wooden horse.’—Sir Walter Scott: Redgauntlet, 
chap. XV. 

Woeden Horse of Troy. Virgil 
tells us that Ulysses had a monster 
wooden horse made after the death of 
Hector, and gave out that it was an 
offering to the gods to secure a pros- 
perous voyage back to Greece. The 
Trojans dragged the horse within their 
city, but it was full of Grecian soldiers, 
who at night stole out of their place of 
concealment, slew the Trojan guards, 
opened the city gates, and set fire to 
Troy. Menelaios was one of the Greeks 
shut up init. It was made by Epeios 
(Latin, Epéus). 

Cambusca’s wooden horse. The Arab- 
ian Nights tells us of Cambuscan’s horse 
of brass, which had a pin in the neck, 
and on turning this pin the horse rose 
into the air, and transported the rider to 
the place he wanted to go to. (See 
CLAVILENO. ) 


Wocden Mare (7ic). ‘‘ The mare 
foaled of an acorn.’? An instrument of 
torture to enforce military discipline, 
used in the reign οὐ Charles II. and long 
after. ‘The horse was made of oak, the 
back was a sharp ridge, and the four 
legs were like a high stool. The victim 
was seated on the ridge, with a firelock 
fastened to each foot. 

“Here, Andrews, wrap a cloak round the 
prisoner,and do not mention his name. .. unless 
you would have a trot on the wooden horse.”— 
Sir Walter Scott: Old Mortality, chap. ix. 

Wocden Spoen. The last of the 
honour men—i.¢. of the Junior Optimes, 
in the Cambridge University. Some- 
times two or more ‘‘last’? men are 
bracketed together, in which case the 
group is termed the spoon bracket. It 
is said that these men are so cal'ed 
because in days of yore they were pre- 
sented with a wooden spoon, while the 
other honour men had a silver or golden 
one, a spoon being the usual prix de 
mériteinstead of a medal, (See WOODEN 
WEDGE. ) 


Wooden Sword. 70 wear the wooden 
sword. To keep back sales by asking 
too high a price. Fools used to wear 
wooden swords or ‘‘ daggers of lath.” 


Wooden Wall 


1312 


Word 


Wooden Wall, When the Greeks 
sent to Delphi to ask how they were to 
defend themselves against Xerxes, who 
had invaded their country, the evasive 
answer given was to this effect— 

Pallas hath urged, and Zeus, the sire of all, 

Hath safety promised in a wooden wall ; 

Seed-time and harvest, weeping sires shall tell 

How thousands fought at Salamis and fell. 

Wooden walls of Old England. The 
ships of war. We must now say, ‘‘ The 
iron walls of Old England,”’ 


Wooden Wedge. Last in the clas- 
sical tripos. When, in 1524, the classical 
tripos was instituted at Cambridge, it 
was debated by what name to call the 
last on the list. It so happened that 
the last on the list was Wedgewood, 
and the name was accepted and moulded 
into Wooden-wedge. (See WOODEN 
SPOON.) 


Woodall, brother of the Woodfall 
of Junius, and editor of the Morning 
Chronicle. Woodfall would attend a de- 
bate, and, without notes, report it accu- 
rately next morning. He was called 
Memory Woodfall.  (1745-1803.) W. 
Radcliffe could do the same. 


Woodwardian Professor. The 
professor of geology in the University 
οὗ Cambridge. This professorship was 
founded in 1727 by Dr. Woodward. 


Wool. Dyed in the wool. A hearty 
good fellow. Cloth which is wool-dyed 
(not piece-dyed), is true throughout 
“‘and will wash.” 

No wool is so white that a dyer cannot 
blacken it. No one is so free from faults 
that slander can find nothing to say 
against him ; no book is so perfect as to 
be free from adverse criticism, 

* Maister Mainwaring’s much abuzed, 

Most grievously for things accused, 

And all the dowlish [devilish] pack ; 

Ten let mun all their poison spit, 

My Jord, there is no wooll zo whit 
That dyers can’t make black.” af 

Peter Pindur: Middlesex Election, letter iil. 
Wool-gathering. Your wits ave gone 
wool-gathering. As children sent to 
gather wool from hedges are absent 
for a trivial purpose, so persons in 
a ὁ brown study”? are absent-minded 
to no good purpose. 

“ But, my dear, if my wits are somewhat wool- 
gathering and unsettled, my heart is as true as a 
star.’—Harvriet B, Stowe. 

Woollen. In 1666 an Act of Parlia- 
ment was passed for ‘‘ burying in woollen 
ouly,’’ which was intended for ‘‘ the en- 
couragement of the woollen manufac- 
tures of the kingdom, and prevention of 
the exportation of money for the buying 


and importing of linen.’ 
1814, 


“*Odious ! in woollen ! twould a saint provoke !” 
(Were the last words that poor Narcissa spoke), 
‘No! let a charming chintz and Brussels lace 
Wrap my cold limbs,and shade my lifeless face. 
Bes a not, sure, be frightful when one's , 
And—Betty—give the cheeks a little red.’” 

Pope: Moral Essays, Ep. i. 
This was the ruling passion strong in 
death. At the time this was written it 
was compulsory to bury in woollen. 

Narcissa did not dread death half so 

much as being obliged to wear flannel 

instead of her fine mantles. Narcissa 
was Mrs. Oldfield, the actress, who died 

1721- 

Woollen goods. (See LINEN Goons.) 
Woolsack. To sit on the woolsach. 

To be Lord Chancellor of England, whose 

seat in the House of Lords is called the 

woolsack. It is a large square bag of 
wool, without back or arms, and covered 
with red cloth. In the reign of Queen 

Elizabeth an Act of Parliament was 

passed to prevent the exportation of 

wool; and that this source of our 
national wealth might be kept con- 
stantly in mind woolsacks were placed 
in the House of Peers, whereon the 
judges sat. Hence the Lord Chancellor, 
who presides in the House of Lords, is 
said to ‘‘ sit on the woolsack,”’ or to be 
‘* appointed to the woolsack,”’ 


Woolwich Infant (7/e). (Sce Gun.) 


Worcester (JVoost'-er). A con- 
traction of Iieii-ware-ceaster (the camp- 
town of the Wicii people). /Vare means 
people, and Wicii was a tribe name. 


Repealed in 


Worcester College (Oxford), 
founded by Sir Thomas Cookes, of 
Bentley, Worcestershire. Created a ba- 
ronet by Charles 11. 


Word. 4 man of his word. 
whose word may be 
trustworthy. 

As good as his word. In French, * Ux 
homme de parole.” One who keeps his 
word. 

By word of mouth. Orally. As ‘‘he 
took it down by word of mouth” (as it 
was spoken by the speaker). 

1 take you at your word. In French, 
“© Je vous prend au mot.’? Iwill act in 
reliance of what you tell me. 

Pray, make no words about it. In 
French, ‘‘ V’en dites mot.’’ Don’t mention 
it ; make no fuss about it. 

Speak a good word for me. In French, 
ἐς Dites un mot en ma faveur.”’ 

To pass one’s word, In French, 


One 
depended on; 


Word 


1313 


Worship 


“* Donner sa parole.’’ 
something required. 
Upon my word. Assuredly; by my 
troth. 
“Upon my word, you answer . . 
—Jane Austen. 
Upon my word and honour! A strong 
affirmation of the speaker as to the truth 
of what he has asserted. 


Word (Zhe). The second person of 
the Christian Trinity. (Johni. 1.) 


Word to the Wise (4). ““ Verbum 


To promise to do 


. discreetly.” 


sap.”” 
Words. Soft words butter no pars- 
nips. In Seotland an excellent dish is 


made of parsnips and potatoes beaten 
up with butter. (See BUTTER.) 

Many words will not fill a bushel. 
Mere promises will not help the needy. 
If we say to a beggar, ‘‘ Be thou filled,”’ 
is he filled ? 

The object of words is to conceal 
thoughts. (See LANGUAGE.) 

To have words with one. To quarrel ; 
to have an angry discussion. Other 
phrases to the same effect are — They 
exchanged words together ; There passed 
some words between them (in French, 
ἐς Tls ont en quelques paroles ”’), 


Working on the Dead Horse, doing 
work which has been already paid for, 
Such work is a dead horse, because you 
can get no more out of it. 


World. 4 man of the world. One 
acquainted with the ways of public and 
social life. 

A woman of the world. 
woman. (Sce above.) 

“Touchstone. To-morrow will we be married. 

Auorey. I do desire it withall my heart ; and I 
hope it is no dishonest desire to be a woman of 
the world.”—Shukespeare : As You Like It, v. 3. 

Ali the world and his wife. Everyone 
without exception. 

To go to the world. To get married. 
The Catholics at one time exalted 
celibacy into “ἃ crown of glory,’ and 
divided mankind into celibates and 
worldlings (or laity). The former were 
monks and nuns, and the latter were the 
monde (or people of the world). Simi- 
larly they divided literature into sacred 
and profane, 


“Everyone goes to the world but I,and I may 
sit in a corner and cry heigho! for a husband.”— 
Shakespeare: Much Ado About Nothing, ii. 1. 

“Tf I may have your ladyship's good will to go 
to the world, Isabel and I will do as we may.”— 
All's Well that Ends Well, 1. 3. 


World (Zhe). The world, the flesh, 
and the devil. ‘“*The world,’’ 1.6. the 
things of this world, in contradistinction 


89 


A married 


to religious matters; ‘‘the flesh,’’ 1.6, 
love of pleasure and sensual enjoyments : 
“the devil,”’ 7.e. all temptations to evil 
of every kind, as theft, murder, lying, 
blasphemy, and so on. 


Worm. 1710 have a worm in one’s 
tongue. To be cantankerous; to snarl 
and bite like a mad dog. 

“There is one easy artifice 

That seldom has been known to miss— 

To snarlat all things right or wrong, 

Like a mad dog that hasa worm in’s tongue.” 

Samuel Butler : Upon Modern Critics. 

To worm out information. To elicit 
information indirectly and piecemeal. 

To worm oneself into another's favour. 
To insinuate oneself in an underhand 
manner into the good graces of another 
person. ; 

*t A worm is a spiral instrument re- 
sembling a double corkscrew, used for 
drawing wads and cartridges from 
cannon, etc. 


Worms, in Germany, according to 
tradition, is so called from the Lind- 
wurm or dragon slain by Siegfried under 
the linden tree. 


“Yet more 1 know of Siegfried that well your 

your ear may hold. 

oe the linden tree he slew the dragon 
bold ; 

Then in its blood he bathed him, which turned 
to horn his skin, Ε 

So now no weapon harms him, as oft hath 
proven been.” Nibelungen, st. 104. 


Wormwood. The tradition is that 
this plant sprang up in the track of the 
serpent as it writhed along the ground 
when driven out of Paradise. 


Worse than a Crime. Jt was worse 
than a crime, it was a blunder. Said by 
Talleyrand of the murder of the Duc 
d’Enghien by Napoleon I. 


Wor’ship means state or condition 
of worth, hence the term ‘‘ his worship,”’ 
meaning his worthyship. ‘*Thou shalt 
have worship in the presence of them that 
sit at meat with thee’’ (Luke xiv. 10) 
means ‘‘ Thou shalt have worth-ship 
[value or appreciation].’’ In the mar- 
riage service the man says to the woman, 
“With my body I thee worship, and 
with all my worldly goods I thee endow ”’ 
—that is, I confer on you my rank 
and dignities, and endow you with my 
wealth ; the worthship attached to my 
person I share with you, and the wealth 
which is mine is thine also. 

Never worship the gods unshod. So 
taught Pythagoras, and he meant in a 
careless and slovenly manner. (See 
TIamblichus ; Protreptics, symbol 9.) The 
Jews took off their shoes when they 


entered holy ground (Exodus iii. 5). 


Worsted 


This custom was observed by the ancient 
Egyptians. Mahometans and Brahmins 
enter holy places bare-footed ; indeed, 
in British India, inferiors take off their 
shoes when they enter the room of a 
British officer, or the wife of an officer. 
The idea is that shoes get covered with 
dust, and holy ground must not be defiled 
by dirt. (Justin Martyr : Apology, i. 62.) 

The command given to the disciples 
by Christ was to shake off the dust of 
their feet when they left a city which 
would not receive them. 


Worsted. Yarn or thread made of 
wool; so called from Worsted in Nor- 
folk, now a village, but once a Jarge 
market-town with at least as many 
thousand inhabitants as it now contains 
hundreds, (Camden.) 


Worth = betide. 


“Thus saith the Lord God: Howl ye, wo worth 


the day !’’"—IEzekiel xxx, 2. 
“ Wo worth the chase ! wo worth the day 
That costs thy life, my gallant grey.” 
Sir Walter Scott. 

Worthies (Zhe Nine). (See NINE.) 

“ The Nine Worthies of London. 

(1) Sir William Walworth, tishmonger, 
who stabbed Wat Tyler, the rebel. Sir 
William was twice Lord Mayor. (1374, 
1380.) 

(2) Six Henry Pritchard, who (in 1356) 
feasted Edward III., with 5,000 followers ; 
Edward the Black Prince; John, King 
of Austria; the King of Cyprus; and 
David, King of Scotland. 

(3) Sir William Sevenoke, who fought 
with the Dauphin of France, built twenty 
almshouses and a free school. (1418.) 

(4) Sir Thomas White, merchant tailor, 
son of a poor clothier. In 1553 he kept 
the citizens loyal to Queen Mary dur- 
ing Wyatt’s rebellion. Sir John White 
founded St. John’s College, Oxford, on 
the spot where ‘‘two elms grew from 
one root.”’ 

(5) Sir John Bonham, entrusted with a 
valuable cargo for the Danish market, 
and made commander of the army raised 
to stop the progress of the great Soly- 
man. 

(6) Christopher Croker. Famous at 
the siege of Bordeaux, and companion 
of the Black Prince when he helped Don 
Pedro to the throne of Castile. 

(7) Sir John Hawkwood. One of the 
Black Prince’s knights, and immortal- 
ised in Italian history as Giovanni 
Acuti Cavaliero. 

(8) Sir Hugh Caverley. Famous for 
ridding Poland of a monstrous bear. 

(9) Six Henry Maleverer, generally 
called Henry of Cornhill, who lived 


1314 


Wraxen 


in the reign of Henry IV. He was a 
crusader, and became the guardian of 
‘* Jacob’s well.”’ 

The chronicle of these worthies is 
told in a mixture of prose and verse 
by Richard Johnson, author of The Seven 
Champions of Christendom, (1592.) 

~ Among these nine worthies we 
miss the names of Whittington, Gres- 
ham, and Sir John Lawrence (Lord 
Mayor in 1664), second to none, 


Wound. Bind the wound, and grease 
the weapon. This is a Rosicrucian 
maxim, These early physicians applied 
salve to the weapon instead of to the 
wound, under the notion of a magical 
reflex action. Sir Kenelm Digby quotes 
several anecdotes to prove this sympa- 
thetic action, 

Wraith. The spectral appearance 
of a person shortly about to die. It 
appears to persons at a distance, and 
forewarns them of the event.”’ (/igh- 
land superstition.) (See Farry.) 


Wrangler, in Cambridge phrase, is 
one who has obtained a place in the 
highest mathematical tripos. The first 
man of this class is termed the senior 
wrangler, the rest are arranged accord- 
ing to respective merit, and are called 
second, third, fourth, ete., wrangler, as 
it may be. In the Middle Ages, when 
letters were first elevated to respecta- 
bility in modern Europe, college exer- 
cises were called disputations, aud those 
who performed them disputants, because 
the main part consisted in pitting two 
men together, one to argue pro and the 
other con. In the law and theological 
“schools”? this is still done for the 
bachelor’s and doctor’s degrees. The 
exercise of an opponent is called an 
opponency. Wrangling is a word-battle 
carried on by twisting words and trying 
to obfuscate an opponent—a most excel- 
lent term for the disputations of school- 
men. The opponency begins with an 
essay on the subject of dispute, 


Wrath’s Hole (Cornwall). The legend 
is that Bolster, a gigantic wrath or evil 
spirit, paid embarrassing attention to St. 
Agnes, who told him she would listen to 
his suit when he filled with his blood a 
small hole which she pointed out to him. 
The wrath joyfully accepted the terms, 
but the hole opened into the sea, and 
the wrath, being utterly exhausted, St. 
Agnes pushed him over the cliff. 


Wrax’en. Overstretched, strained, 
rank, They go to school all the week, 
and get wraxen. The weeds are quite 


Wright of Norwich 


1315 


Wynd 


wraxen. The child fell and wraxed his 
ankle. (Anglo-Saxon, wre@c, miserable, 
wretched.) 


Wright of Norwich. Do you know 
Dr. Wright of Norwich? A reproof 
given to a person who stops the decanter 
at dinner. Dr. Wright, of Norwich, was 
a great diner-out and excellent talker. 


When a person stops the bottle and is — 


asked this question, it is as much as to 
say, Dr. Wright had the privilege of 
doing so because he entertained the 
table with his conversation, but you 
are no Dr. Wright, except in stopping 
the circulation of the wine. 

A similar reproof is given in the 
combination room of our Universities 
in this way: The bottle-stopper is 
asked if he knows A or B (any name), 
and after several queries as to who A 
or B is, the questioner says, ‘‘He was 
hanged,’’ and being asked what for, re- 
plies, ‘‘ For stopping the bottle,”’ 


Write. 170 write up. To bring into 
public notice or estimation by favour- 
able criticisms or accounts cf, as to write 
up a play or an author. 


Write Like an Angel (170). 


(See 
under ANGEL.) 


Wrong. The king (or queen) can do no 
wrong. 


“Tt sees incredible that we should have to 
remind Lord Redesdale that the sovereign ‘can 
do no wrong,’ simply because the sovereign can 
do nothing except by and with the advice and 
consent of the ministers of the Crown.’—The 
Times. 

Wrong End of the Stick (low have 
got hold of the). You have quite misap- 
prehended the matter; you have got the 
wrong sow by the ear. There is another 
form of this phrase which determines the 
allusion. The toe of the stick is apt to 
be fouled with dirt, and when laid hold 
of defiles the hand instead of supporting 

he feet. 


Wrong Side of the Blanket (Z/v). 
(See BLANKET.) 


Wrong Side of the Cloth (7iut is 
the). The inferior aspect. In French, 
Venvers du drap. 


Wrong Sow by the Ear (Vou have 
the). You have made a mistake in 
choice ; come to the wrong shop or box ; 
or misapprehended the subject. Pigs are 
caught by the ear. (Sze Sow.) 


Wrong ’un (4). A horse which has 
run at any flat-race meeting not recog- 
nised by the Jockey Club is technically 
so called, and is boycotted by the club. 


Wroth Money or Wroth Silver. 
Money paid to the lord in lieu of castle 
guard for military service; a tribute 
paid for killing accidentally some person 
of note ; a tribute paid in acknowledg- 
ment of the tenancy of unenclosed land. 
Dugdale, in his History of Warwich- 
shire, says :— 

“There is a certain rent due unto the lord of 
this Hundred (1.6, of Knightlow, the property of 
the Duke of Buccleuch), called wroth-money, or 
warth-money, or swarff-penny. .. Denarii vice- 
comiti vel aliis castellanis persoluti ob castrormun 
presidium vel excubias agendas (Sir Henry Spel- 
man: Glossary). The rent must be paid on Mar- 
tinmas Day, in the morning at Knightlow Cross, 
hefore sun-rise. The party paying it must go 
thrice about the cross and say, ‘The wrath- 
money,’ and then lay it [varying from 1d. to 
2s. 3d.) in a hole in the said cross hefore good 
witnesses, or forfeit a white bull with red nose 
and ears. The amount thus collected reached in 
1892 to about 9s.,and_ all who complied with the 
custom were entertained at a substantial break- 
fast at the Duke’s expense, and were toasted in 
a glass of rumand milk.” 


Wulstan (S/.). A Saxon Bishop of 
Worcester, who received his see trom 
Edward the Confessor. Being accused 
of certain offences, and ordered to resign 
his see, he planted his crozier in the 
shrine of the Confessor, declaring if any 
of his accusers could draw it out he 
would submit to resign; as no one 
could do so but St. Wulstan himself, his 
innocence was admitted. This sort of 
‘* miracle’? is the commonest of legend- 
ary wonders, Arthur proved himself 
king by a similar ‘‘ miracle.”’ 


Wunderberg or Underbeg, on the 
great moor near Salzberg, the chief 
haunt of the Wild-women, Τύ is said to 
be quite hollow, and contains churches, 
gardens, and cities, Here is Charles V. 
with crown and sceptre, lords and 
knights, His grey beard has twice en- 
compassed the table at which he sits, 
and when it has grown long enough to 
go a third time round it Antichrist will 


appear. (German superstition.) (See 
BARBAROSSA.) 
Wyn-monath [JVine-imonth]. The 


Anglo - Saxon name for October, the 
month for treading the wine-vats. In 
Domesday Book the vineyards are per- 
petually mentioned. 


Wynd. Lvery man for his own hand, 
as Henry Wynd fought. Every man for 
himself ; every man seeks his own advan- 
tage. When the feud between Clan 
Chattan and Clan Kay was decided by 
deadly combat on the North Inch of 
Perth, one of the men of Clan Chattan 
deserted, and Henry Wynd, a. bandy- 
legzed smith, volunteered for half-a- 
crown to supply his place. After killing 


Wyoming 


1316 


xXury 


one man he relaxed in his efforts, and 
on being asked why, replied, ‘‘I have 
done enough for half-a-crown.’’ He 
was promised wages according to his 
deserts, and fought bravely. After the 
battle he was asked what he fought for, 
and gaye for answer that he fought ‘‘ for 
his own hand ;’’? whence the proverb, 
(Sir Walter Scott : Tales of a Grand- 
father, xvii.) 

Wyo'ming (3 syl.). In 1778 a force 
of British provincials and Indians, led by 
Colonel Butler, drove the settlers out of 
the valley, and Queen Esther toma- 
hawked fourteen of the fugitives with 
her own hand, in revenge for her son’s 
death, Campbell has foanded his Gey- 
trude of Wyoming on this disaster, but 
erroneously makes Brandt leader of the 
expedition, and calls the place Wy’- 
oming. 

“Susquchanna’s side, fair Wyoming.” 


x 


XX on beer-casks indicates beer which 
paid ten shillings duty, and hence it 
came to mean beer of a given quality. 
Two or three crosses are mere trade- 
marks, intended to convey the notion of 
twice or thrice as strong as that which 
pays ten shillings duty, 


Xan'thos [reddish yellow]. Achilles’ 
wonderful horse. Being chid by his 
master for leaving Patroclos on the field 
ot battle, the horse turned his head re- 
proachtully, and told Achilles that he 
also would soon be numbered with the 
dead, not from any fault of his horse, 
but by the decree ot inexorable destiny. 
(lliad, xix.) (Compare Numbers xxii, 
28-30.) ἢ 

" Xanthos and Balios (swift as the 
wind) were the offspring of Podargé the 
harpy and Be rake (See Horse. ) 

Xanthos, the river of Troas. Elian 
and Pliny say that Homer called the 
Scamander ‘‘ Xanthos” or the ‘‘ Gold- 
red river,’? because it coloured with 
such a tinge the fleeces of sheep washed 
in its waters, Others maintain that it 
was so called because a hero named 
Xanthos defeated a body of Trojans on 
its banks, and pushed half of them into 
the stream, as in the battle of Blenheim 
the Duke of Marlborough drove the 
French into the Danube. 

_ Xanthus. A large shell like those as- 
eribed to the Tritons. The volutes 
generally run from right to left ; and if 


the Indians find a shell with the volutes 
running in the contrary direction, they 
persist that one of their gods has got 
into the shell for concealment. 


Xantip’pe or Xanthip’pe (5 syl.). 
Wite of the philosopher Socrates. Her 
bad temper has rendered her name 
proverbial for a conjugal scold. 

“ Be she as foul as was Florentius’ love, 

As old as Sibyl, and as curst and shrewd 

As Socrates’ Xanthippe, or a worse, 

She moves me not.” 

Shakespeare: Taming of the Shrew, i. 2. 

Xenoc'rates. A disciple of Plato, 
noted for his continence and contempt 
of wealth, (8.6. 396-3514.) 

“Warmed by such youthful beauty, the severe 


Xenocrates would not have more heen chaste.” 
Orlundo Furioso, Xi. 8. 


Xerx’es (2 syl.). A Greek way of 
writing the Persian Ksathra or Kshatra, 
a royal title assumed by Istundear, son 
of Gushtasp, darawesh. (See Darrius.) 

When Xerxes invaded Greece he con- 
structed a pontoon bridge across the 
Dardanelles, which, being swept away 
by the force of the waves, so enraged 
the Persian despot that he ‘‘ inflicted 
three hundred lashes on the rebellious 
sea, and cast chains of iron across it.” 
This story is probably a Greek myth, 
founded on the peculiar construction of 
Xerxes’ second bridge, which consisted 
of three hundred boats, lashed by iron 
chains to two ships serving as supporters. 
As for the scourging, without doubt it 
was given to the engineers and not to 
the waves. 


Xerxes’ Tears. It is said that when 
Xerxes, King of Persia, reviewed his 
magnificent and enormous army before 
starting for Greece, he wept at the 
thought of slaughter about to take 
place. ‘‘ Of all this multitude, who 
shall say how many will return?’’? Em- 
erson, in his Lvglish Traits, chap. iv., 
speaks of the Emperor Charlemagne 
viewing the fleet of the Norsemen in the 
Mediterranean Sea with tears in bis 
eyes, and adds, ‘‘ There was reason for 
these Xerxes’ tears.” 

Xerxes wept at the prospective loss 
he expected to suffer in the invasion 
prepared, but Charlemagne wept at the 
prospective disruption of his kingdom 
by the hardy Norsemen. 


Xime’na. The Cid’s bride. 
Xit. Royal dwarf to Edward VI. 


Xu'ry. A Moresco boy, servant to 
Robinson Crusoe. (De Foe: Robinson 
Crusoe.) 


AS 


1317 


Yellow 


Y 


Y. A letter resembling ‘‘y’’ was the 
Anglo-Saxon character for th (hard); 
hence γ΄, γ΄, γ᾽, etc., are sometimes 
made to stand for the, that, this. 


Y. See Samran LETTER. 


Ya'coub ebn Laith, surnamed a/ 
Soffar (the brazier), because his father 
followed that trade in Seistan, was cap- 
tain of a bandit troop, raised himself 
to the sovereignty of Persia, and was 
the first independent monarch of that 
country of the Mahometan faith. (873- 
879.) 


Yaeu-mama, [other of waters]. A 
fabulous sea-snake, fifty paces long and 
twelve yards in girth, said to lurk in 
the lagunes of South America, and in 
the river Amazon. This monster draws 
into its mouth whatever passes within 
a hundred yards of it, and for this 
reason an Indian will never venture to 
enter an unknown lagune till he has 
blown his horn, which the yacu-mama 
never fails to answer if it is within 
hearing. By this means the danger ap- 
prehended is avoided. (J aterton.) 


Ya'hoo. A savage; a very ill-man- 
nered person. In Gulliver’s Travels 
the Yahoos are described as brutes with 
human forms and vicious propensities. 
They are subject to the Houyhnhnms, 
or horses with human reason. 


Ya'ma. Judge of departed souls, the 
Minos of the Hindus. He is repre- 
sented as of a green colour, and sits on 
a buffalo. 


Yamuna. A sacred river of the 
Hindus, supposed by them to have the 
eflicacy of removing sin. 


Yankee. A corruption of ‘‘ English.” 
The word got into general use thus: 
In 1713 one Jonathan Hastings, a 
farmer at Cambridge, in New York, 
used the word as a puffing epithet, 
meaning genuine, American-made, what 
cannot be surpassed, etc.; as, a ‘* Yankee 
horse,’’? ‘* Yankee cider,’’ and so on. 
The students of the college, catching up 
the term, called Hastings ‘‘ Yankee 
Jonathan.’’ It soon spread, and became 
the jocose pet name of the New Eng- 
lander. Since then the term has been 
extended to any American of the 
Northern States. (Indian corruption of 
Anglais or English, thus: Yengees, Yen- 
ghis, Yanghs, Yankees.) 

Yankee Dosdle is Nankee Doodle 


(Oliver Cromwell), who went to Oxford 

‘‘with a single feather fastened in a 

macaroni knot,’’ whence the rhyme— 

“ Nankee Doodle came to town upon his little 
pony, 

Stuck a feather in his hat, and called it 

macaroni.” 

The brigade under Lord Percy marched 

out of Boston playing this air ‘*‘ by way 

of contempt,’’ but were told they should 

dance to it soon in another spirit. 


Yarmouth Bloater. A red herring, 
for which Yarmouth is very famous. 
(Lex Balatronicum.) . 


Yarmouth Capons, 


Yawn. Greek, chaino; German, 
gahnen ; Anglo-Saxon, gan-ian. 


Yea, Yes. Tea and nay are in 
answer to questions framed in the affirm- 
ative ; as, ‘‘ Art thou a prophet ?’’ Yea 
ornay. Jes and 210 to questions framed 
in the negative; as, ‘Art thou not a 
prophet?’? Yes or no. (George P. 
Marsh: Lectures on the English Lan- 
guage.) (See his note on the celebrated 
passage of Sir Thomas More, who re- 
bukes Tyndale for using zo instead of 
nay, p. 422. 


Year. Annus magnus.- The Chal- 
daic astronomers observed that the fixed 
stars shift their places at about the rate 
of a degree in seventy-two years, ac- 
cording to which calculation they will 
perform one revolution in 25,920 years, 
at the end of which time they will return 
to their ‘‘as you were.” This revolu- 
tion of the fixed stars is the annus 
magnus. The Egyptians made it 30,000 
years, and the Arabians 49,000. (See 
Abuthasaw's Meadows of Gold.) 

9] For a year and aday. Tu law many 
acts are determined by this period of 
time—c.g. if a person wounded does not 
die within a year and a day, the offender 
is not guilty of murder; if an owner 
does not claim an estray within the same 
leneth of time, it belongs to the lord of 
the manor; a year and a day is given 
to prosecute appeals, etc. 


Yellow. Anglo-Saxon, geoli, yellow ; 
Italian, gia//o ; Danish, gua ; Icelandic, 
gull, our gold, yellow metal. 

Yellow indicates jealousy, inconstancy, 
and adultery. In France the doors of 
traitors used to be daubed with yellow. 
In some countries the law ordains that 
Jews be clothed in yellow, because they 
betrayed our Lord. Judas in medieval 
pictures is arrayed in yellow. In Spain 
the vestments of the executioner are 
either fed or yellow—the former to 


Red herrings, 


Yellow-bellies 


1318 


Yellowhammer 


indicate blood-shedding, and the latter 
treason. 

Yellow, in blazonry, is gold, the 
symbol of love, constancy, and wisdom. 

Yellow, in Christian symbolism, also 
gold, is emblematical of faith. St. Peter 
is represented in a robe of a golden 
yellow colour. In China yellow is the 
imperial colour. 


Yellow-bellies. Frogs, fenmen. The 
Mexicans are so called. 

“When the Queen’s Prize was won at Wimble- 
don, July 2Ist, 1885, by Sergeant Bulmer, 2nd 
Lincoln, his victory was hailed with ‘ Well done, 
yellow-belly "ἢ in allusion to his being a Lincoln- 
shire man.” —Notes and Queries, August 22nd, 
Isso, p. 146, 

“Ah, then, agin, it kin searce be Mexikins 
neyther. It ur too fur noth for any Οὐ them 
yellow-bellies.’—Cuptain Mayne Reid: The War 
Trail, chap. xxi. 

Yellow Book of France. A report 
drawn up by government every year 
since 1861, designed to furnish historians 
with reliable information of the state, 
external and internal, of the French 
nation, It is called Yellow from the 
colour of its cover. It corresponds to 
our ‘Blue Book”? and the ‘ White 
Books ”’ of Germany and Portugal, 


Yellow-boy (4). A gold sovereign. 


“John did not starve the cause; there wanted 
not yellow-boys to fee counsel.”—Arbuthnot : John 
Bull. 


Yellow-boy (4). A bankrupt. The 
French call a bankrupt Safranier, and 
Aller au safran means to be made a 
bankrupt. The allusion is to the ancient 
custom of painting the house of a traitor 
yellow. It will be remembered that the 
house of the Petit Bourbon was long so 
stigmatised on account of the treason of 
the Constable Bourbon. 


Yellow Caps. A notable insurrec- 
tion in China, in the reign of Han-ling- 
tee (168-189), headed by Tchang-keo, 
and so called from the caps worn by the 
rebels, which were all of the imperial 
colour. 


Yellow Dwarf. A certain queen 
had a daughter named Atu-Fatr, of in- 
comparable beauty. One day the queen 
went to consult the Desert-Fairy, but, 
being weary, lay down to rest, and fell 
asleep. On waking she saw two lions 
approaching, and was greatly terrified. 
At this juncture the Yellow Dwarf 
arrested her attention, and promised to 
save her from the lions if she would 
consent to give him Atu-Farr for his 
bride. The queen made the promise, 
and an orange-tree opened, into which 
the queen entered, and escaped the lions. 


The queen now sickened, and ALL-Farr 
went to consult the Desert-Fairy, but, 
like her mother, was threatened by the 
lions, and promised to be the dwarf’s 
bride if he would contrive her escape. 
Next morning she awoke in her own 
room, and found on her finger a ring 
made of a single red hair, which could 
not be got off. The princess now 
sickened, and the States resolved to 
give her in marriage to the powerful 
king of the Gold Mines, On the day of 
espousals the Yellow Dwarf came to 
claim his bride, carried her off on 
his Spanish cat, and confined her in 
Steel Castle. In the meantime the 
Desert-Fairy made the king of the Gold 
Mines her captive. One day a mermaid 
appeared to the captive king, carried 
him to Steel Castle, and gave him a 
sword made of one entire diamond. 
Thus armed, the king went in, and was 
first encountered by four sphinxes, then 
by six dragons, then by twenty-four 
nymphs. All these he slew with the syren 
sword, and then came to the princess. 
Here he dropped his sword, which the 
Yellow Dwarf took possession of. The 
Yellow Dwarf now made the king his 
captive, and asked if he would give up 
the princess. ‘‘No,’’ said the king; 
whereupon the dwarf stabbed him to 
the heart ; and the princess, seeing him 
fall, threw herself upon the dead body 
and diedalso. (Countess D’ Aulnoy : Fairy 
Tales.) 


Yellow Jack. The flag displayed 
from lazarettos, naval hospitals, and 
vessels in quarantine. (See UNION JACK.) 


Yellow Jack (716). The yellow 
fever. 

“Raymond and all his family died of yellow 
fever, and Fernando... had passed a few weeks 
recovering from a touch of yellow Jack.’—4aA. @. 
Gunter: Baron Montez, hook iv. chap. x. 

Yellowhammer (712). The eggs 
of this bird are spotted with red. The 
tradition is that the bird fluttered about 
the Cross, and got stained with the blood 
in its plumage, and by way of punish- 
ment its eggs were doomed ever after to 
bear marks of blood. ’Tis a very lame 
story, but helps to show how in tormer 
times every possible thing was made to 
bear some allusion to the Redeemer. 
Because the bird was ‘“ cursed,’’ boys 
who abstain from plundering the eggs of 
small birds, were taught that it is as 
right and proper to destroy the eggs of 
the bunting as to persecute a Jew. (See 
CHRIS’IAN TRADITIONS. ) 

** Hammer is a corruption of the 
German ammer, a bunting. 


Yemen 


1319 


York Stairs 


Ye'men. Arabia Felix. Felix is a 
mistranslation by Ptolemy of Yemen, 
which means to the ‘‘right’’—z.e. of 
Mecca. (See Stony ARABIA.) 

τ Beautiful are the maids that glide 

On summer-eyes through Yemen’s dales.” 
Thomas Moore: Fire-Worshippers. 

Yeoman (4) was anciently a 
forty-shilling freeholder, and as such 
qualified to vote, and serve on juries. 
In more modern times it meant a farmer 
who cultivated his own freehold. Later 
still, an upper farmer, tenant or other- 
wise, is often called a yeoman. 

“His family were yeomen of the richer class, 
who for some generations had held property.”— 
Lt. C. Jebb : Richard Lentley, chap. 1. p. 2. 

VYeoman’s Service. Regular hard 
work; effectual service; excellent ser- 
vice whether in a good or bad cause. 
The reference is to the yeomen of the 
Free Companies. 

“The whole training of Port Royal did him yeo- 
man's service.”—Shorthouse: Sir Percival, p. 56. 

“We found a long knife, and_a knotted hand- 
kerchief stained with blood, with which Claude 
had no doubt recently done yeoman's service.” 
—Miss Robinson: Whitefriars, chap. viii. 


Yeomen of the Guard. The beef- 


eaters (q7.v.). 

Yeth-Hounds. Dogs without heads, 
said to be the spirits of unbaptised 
children, which ramble among the 
woods at night, making wailing noises. 
(Devonshire.) 


Yezd (1 syl.). Chief residence of 
the Fire-worshippers. Stephen says 
they have kept the sacred fire alight 
above 3,000 years, without suffering it 
to go out forasecond. The sacred fire 
is on the mountain Ater Quedah (A/an- 
sion of the Fire), and he is deemed un- 
fortunate who dies away from the moun- 
tain. (Lersia.) 

“From Yezd's eternal ‘ Mansion of the Fire,’ 

Where aged saints in dreams of heaven expire.” 

Thomas Moore: Laila Rookh, pt. i. 

Yegeg’drasil’. The ash-tree, whose 
roots run in three directions: One to the 
Asa-gods in heaven, one to the Frost- 
giants, and the third to the under-world. 
Under each root is a fountain of won- 
derful virtues. In the tree, which drops 
honey, sit an eagle, a squirrel, and four 
stags. At the root lies the serpent 
Nithhéger gnawing it, while the squirrel 
Ratatoskr runs up and down to sow strife 
between the eagle at the top and the 


serpent. (Scandinavian mythology.) 
“The Nornas besprinkle 
The ash Ygedrassil.” 
Lord Lytton: Harold, bk. viii. 
Y’mir. The personification of Chaos, 


or the first created being, produced by 


the antagonism of heat and cold, He 
is called a giant, and was nourished by 
the four milky streams which flowed 
from the cow Audhum’'la. While he 
slept, a man and woman grew out of his 
left arm, and sons from his feet. Thus 
was generated the race of the frost-giants. 
CLrimthursar.) 

Odin and his two brothers slew Ymir, 
and threw his carcase into the Ginnun’- 
gagap (abyss of abysses), when his blood 
formed the water of the earth, his gore 
the ocean, his bones the mountains, his 
teeth the rocks, his skull the heavens, 
his brains the clouds, his hair plants of 
every kind, and his eyebrows the wall 
of defence against the giants. (Scan- 
dinavian mythology.) 


Yn'iol. An earl of decayed fortune, 
father of Enid, ousted from his earldom 
by his nephew Ed’yrn, son of Nudd, 
called the ‘‘Sparrow-hawk.’? When 
Edyrn was overthrown in single combat 
by Prince Geraint’, he was compelled to 
restore the earldom to Yn‘iol. (Zenny- 
son: Idyls of the King ; Enid.) 

Yo’ke (1 syl.). Greek zugon, Latin 
jugun, French jog, Dutch juk, German 
joch, Anglo-Saxon geoc (pron. yoc). 

To pass under the yoke. To suffer the 
disgrace of a vanquished army. The 
Romans made a yoke of three spears— 
two upright and one resting on them, 
When an army was vanquished, the 
soldiers had to lay down their arms and 
pass under this archway of spears. 


Yor’ick. The King of Denmark’s 
jester, ‘‘a fellow of infinite jest and 
most excellent fancy.’ (Hamlet, v. 1.) 
In Tristram Shandy Sterne introduces 
a clergyman of that name, meant for 
himself. 


York, when it was Saxon, was called 
Eorwic, and the legend is that a Duke 
of Effroc being drowned at the foot of 
the wall caused this name to be given 
to the city. Southwark Wall was also 
called the Effroe Wall or Stone. (Victor 
Hugo: L’ Homme qui Rit, pt. ii. bk. 
11. 1.) 

York is Ewre-wie (pron. Yorric), and 
means the town on the Kure, now called 
the Ouse, The Romans Latinised the 
word Lure or Evre into ‘‘ Kvora’’ or 
‘‘Ebora,’’ and wie into ‘‘vicum;”’ 
whence Ebora-vicum, contracted into 
Ebor'acum, 


York Stairs (London), by Inigo 
Jones. The only remains left of the 
splendid mansion of the Buckinghams. 
The site is part of the precincts of a 


Yorks 


palace belonging to the bishops of Nor- 
wich. It then passed to Charles Brandon, 
Duke of Suffolk, then to the archbishops 
of York, then to the Crown, then to the 
Duke of Buckingham, who rebuilt it. 
The second Duke of Buckingham pulled 
it down, and converted it into the 
five streets, etc., called respectively, 
‘¢ George,’’ ‘‘ Villiers,”’ ‘‘ Duke,” ‘* Of,”’ 
“‘Buckingham.’’ The gate leading to 
the Thames is the only part of this 
‘mansion which remains, 


Yorks (a Stock-Exchange term), the 
Great Northern Railway Ordinary Stock, 
the York line. Similarly, there are the 
Berwicks, the Brums, the Dovers, the 
Leeds, the Pots or Potteries, the Singa- 
pores, and soon. (See Stock-EXCHANGE 
SLANG. ) 

Yorkshire. J’se Yorkshire, too. I 
am as deep as you are, and am not to 
be bamboozled, The North-countrymen 
are proverbially ‘‘long-headed and can- 
nie.’’ A tale is told of a Yorkshire rustic 
under cross-examination. The counsel 
tried to make fun of him, and said to 
him, ‘‘ Well, farmer, how go calves at 
York?’? ‘Well, sir,’’ said the farmer, 
‘“‘on four legs, and not on two.” ‘‘Si- 
lence in the court!” cried the baffled 
bigwig, and tried again. ‘‘ Now, farmer 
—remember you are on your oath—are 
there as many fools as ever in the West 
Riding ν᾽ ‘Well, no, sir, no; we’ve 
got our share, no doubt; but there are 
not so many as when vow were there.”’ 


Young Chevalier. Charles Edward 
Stuart, the second Pretender. (1720- 
1788.) 

Young England. A set of young 
noblemen and aristocratic gentlemen 
who tried to revive the formality and 
court manners of the Chesterfield school. 
They wore white waistcoats, patronised 
the pet poor, looked down upon shop- 
keepers, and were altogether Red-Tape 
Knights. Disraeli has immortalised their 
ways and manners, but scarcely a caput 
mortwum of their folly now remains. 

Young Germany. A literary school 
headed by Heinrich Heme, whose aim 
was to liberate politics, religion, and 
manners from the old conventional 
trammels. 


Young Italy. A league of Italian 
refugees, who associated themselves with 
the French republican party, called the 
Charbonnerie Démocratique (q.v.). It was 
organised at Marseilles by Mazzini, and 
its chief object was to diffuse republican 
principles, 


1320 


Yue-Laou 


Your Petitioners shall ever Pray, 
etc. The part omitted is, if a petition 
to the Crown, ‘‘for your Majesty’s most 
prosperous reign’’; but if to Parlia- 
ment, the suppressed words are, ‘for 
the prosperous success of this high and 
honourable court of Parliament.”’ 


Youth Restored. [ola’us was re- 
stored to youth, as Euripidés says. 

Phaon, the beloved of Sappho, was 
restored to youth on the behalf of 
Venus. 

βου was restored to youth by Medea, 
and so was Jason. 

The muses of Bacchus and their hus- 
bands were restored to youth, according 
to Esch¥los. 


Ysolde, Ysonde, or Jsev/¢. Daughter 
of the Queen of Ireland. Sir Tristram, 
being wounded, was cured by Ysolde, 
and on his return to Cornwall gave his 
uncle such a glowing description of the 
young princess that he sent to ask her 

and inmarriage. Ysolde married King 
Mark of Cornwall, but entertained a 
criminal passion for the nephew. This 
attachment being discovered by the king, 
he banished Tristram from Cornwall. 
Sir Tristram went to Wales, where he 
performed prodigies of valour, and his 
uncle invited him back again. The 
guilty intercourse being repeated, Sir 
Tristram was banished a second time, 
and went to Spain, Ermonie, and Brit- 
tany. In this last place he met with 
Ysolt of the White Hand, daughter of 
the Duke of Brittany, whom he married. 
After many marvellous exploits he was 
severely wounded, and, being told that 
no one could cure him but Ysolde, he 
sent a messenger to Cornwall, and told 
him if the queen consented to accompany 
him he was to hoist a white flag. The 
queen hastened to succour her lover, but 
Ysolt told her husband that the vessel 
was coming with a d/ack: sail displayed. 
Sir Tristram, in an agony of despair, 
fell on his bed and instantly expired. 
Soon as Ysolde heard thereof, she flung 
herself on the corpse and died also. 
King Mark buried the two in one grave, 
and planted over it a rose- bush and vine, 
which so intermingled their branches 
as they grew up that no man could 
separate them. 


Ysolt of the White Hand. Daugh- 
ter of the Duke of Brittany and wife of 
Sir Tristram. (See above.) 


Yue-Laou, in Chinese mythology, 
is the old man of the moon, who unites 
with a silken cord all predestined 


Yuga 


1321 


Zacocia 


couples, after which nothing can prevent 
their union. 


Yuga. A mundane period of years, 
four of which have already passed, 
making up an aggregate of four million 
solar years. In the first period men 
were innocent and free from disease, in 
the second their life was shortened by 
one quarter. In the first period devotion 
was man’s object, in the second spiritual 
knowledge, in the third sacrifice. Com- 
pare the Hindu legend with the account 
given in Genesis. 


Yule (1 syl.). 


Yule Log. A great log of wood laid 
in ancient times across the hearth-fire 
on Christmas Eve. This was done with 
certain ceremonies and much merry- 
making. (Norwegian, jw/, Christmas.) 
“Ever at Yuletide, when the great log flamed 

In chimney corner, laugh and jest went round,” 

Aldrich: Wyndham Towers, stanza 5, 

Yule Swain (72). A kind of Santa 
Klaus among the Lapps. He is eleven 
feet high, and rides on a goat. He 
appears on St. Thomas’s Day, and con- 
tinues his visits till Christmas Eve ; but 
where he comes from and whither he 
goes nobody has the least idea. 


Christmas time. 


Yuletide has been held as a sacred 
festival by numberless nations. 


Christians hold December 25th as the anniver- 
sary of the birth of Jesus. 

China on the same day celebrates the birth of 
Buddha, son of Maya, (Bunsen.) 

Druids held during the winter solstice the fes- 
tival of Nolagh. (Tiggins.) 

Equpt held that Horus, son of Isis, was born 
towards the close of December. (Le Clerk de 
Septehenes.) 

Greece celebrated in the winter solstice the birth 
of Deméter (Ceres), Dionysos (Bacchus),and Hera- 
klés (Hercules). 

India. Numerous Indian tribes keep Yuletide 
asa religious festival. (Monier Williams.) 

Mexico holds in the winter solstice the festival 
of Capacrame. (History of the Indies, vol. ii. 


p. 354.) ; : 
Persia at the same period honours the birth of 
Mithras. (@ross.) 


Rome celebrated on December 25th the festival 
“Natalis Solis Invicta.” 

Scandinavia held at Yuletide the festival called 
Jul, in honour of Freya, son of Odin. 


Yum’'boes (2 syl.). Fairies of African 
mythology, about two feet high, of a 
white colour, and dressed like the people 
of Jaloff. Their favourite haunt is the 
range of hills called The Paps. 

“ When evening’s shades o'er Goree’s isle extend, 
The nimble Yumhboes from The Paps descend, 
Slily approach the natives’ huts, and steal 
With secret hand the pounded coos coos meal.” 

Keightley : Fairy Mythology. 

Y'ves (Sf.) (1 syl.). Patron saint of 
lawyers, being himself a lawyer. As 
he used his knowledge of the law in 


defending the oppressed, he is called in 
Brittany ‘‘ the poor man’s advocate.” 
“ Advocatus, sed non latro, 


Res miranda populo.” 
Hymn to St. Yves. 


_Y'veto't (pron. Hve-t6). The King of 
Yretot. Yvetot is a town in Normandy, 
and the king referred to is the lord of 
the town, called 10% d’ Yvetot in old 
chronicles. The tradition is that Clotaire, 
son of Clovis, having slain Gaulthier, 
lord of Yvetot, before the high altar of 
Soissons, made atonement by conferring 
the title of king on the heirs of the 
murdered man. 

“Tl était un roi d’Yvetot 
Peu connu dans histoire ; 
Se levant tard, se couchant tét, 
Dormant fort bien sans gloire, 
Et couronne par Jeanneton 
Τ᾽ ἢ simple bonnet de coton, 
Dit-on. 
Oh! oh! oh! oh! ah! ah! al! ab! 
Quel bon petit roi c’était, la! la! la!” 
Beranger : Roi d' Yvetot (1813). 


A king there was, “roi d’Yvetot” clept, 
But little known in story ; 

Went soon to bed, till daylight slept, 
And soundly without glory. 

His royal brow in cotton cap 

Would Janet, when he took his nap, 

Enwrap. 
Ah! ah! ah! ah! ho! ho! ho! ho! 
A famous king this “roi d°Y vetot.” 
E. C. B. 


Ζ 


Za/bian. The Zabian world of fashion. 
The world of fashion that worships the 
stars, or men and women of notoriety. 
A Zabian is a worshipper of the sun, 
moon, and stars. The Chaldees and 
ancient Persians were Zabians. 

“This is the new meteor, admired with so much 
devotion by the Zabian world of fashion.”’—Bel- 
gravia, No.1. 

Zacociia. King of Mozam’bec. 
Camoens, in his Lrsiad, says that he 
received Vasco da Gama and his men 
with great hospitality, believing them to 
be Mahometans, but the moment he 
discovered that they were Christians all 
his kindness turned to the most ran- 
corous hate. He tried to allure them 
into ambush, but, failing in this, sent to 
Gama a pilot to conduct the fieet to 
Momba’ze (2 syl.), where the whole 
party would have been killed or reduced 
to slavery. This treachery failed also, 
because Venus drove the fleet in a con- 
trary direction by a storm. The faith- 
less pilot lastly attempted to run the 
ships upon hidden rocks, but the Nereids 
came to the rescue, and the pilot threw 
himself into the sea to escape the anger 
of the Portuguese adventurer, (Camoens: 
Lusiad, ΚΒ. i. 11.) 


Zadkiel 1322 Zephon 
Zad'kiel (3 syl.). Angeloftheplanet | elect of Paradise,’’ and became ‘‘priestess 
Jupiter. (Jewish mythology.) of the faith.” When Azim joined the 


Zadkiel. The pen-name of Lieu- 
tenant Morrison, author of the Prophetic 
Almanae, 


Za‘doc, in Dryden’s satire of Absalom 
and Achitophel, is designed for Sancroft, 
Archbishop of Canterbury. 

“Zadoc the priest, whom (shunning power and 
a8 ἘΤΩ͂Ν mind advanced to David's [Charles 11. 
grace.” Part i. lines ¢01-2, 

Zakarija ibn Muhammed, sur- 
named Awzwini, from Kaswin, the place 
of his birth. De Sacy ealls him ὁ the 
Pliny of the East.’? (12U0-1283.) 

Zakkum, A tree growing in the 
Muhammadan hell, from which a food is 
prepared for the damned of inexpressible 
bitterness. 

“How will it be for him whose food is Zak- 
kum ?"—The Koran, 

Zal. Son of Sim Nerimin, exposed 
on Mount Elburz, because he was born 
with white hair, and therefore supposed 
to be the offspring of a deer. He was 
brought up by the wonderful bird See- 
murgh (¢.v.), and when claimed by his 
father, received from the foster-bird a 
feather to give him insight into futurity. 
(Persian mythology.) 


Za'nes. The statues dispersed about 
the grounds on which the public games 
of Greece were celebrated. They were 
the produce of fines imposed on those 
who infringed the regulations. 


Zano’ni. Hero of a novel so called 
by Lord Lytton. Zanoni is supposed to 
possess the power of communicating with 
spirits, prolonging life, and producing 
gold, silver, and precious stones. 


Zan'y. More correctly, Zanny 
(Italian zanni, a buffoon; Latin sannio, 
‘‘sanna’’? means a grimace, and ‘‘ san- 
neo’ one who makes grimaces). 

: 5 © For indeed, 
He's like the ‘zani* toa tumbler 
That tries tricks after him to make men laugh.” 
BP. Jonson: Every Man out of his Hwmour, iy. 2. 
f “He helonged to one of those dramatic com- 
panies called zanni, who went about the country 


rec ting and acting.’— John Inglesant, chap. 
XXVii. 
Zel. A Moorish cymbal. 


“Where, some hours since, was heard the swell 
+ Of trumpet, and the clash of zel.” 
Thomas Moore: Fire-Worshippers. 
Zelica was in love with Azim. Azim 
left his native Bokhara to join the Per- 
sian army, and was taken captive by the 
Greeks. Report said ‘‘ he was dead ; ᾽" 
Zel’ica lost her reason, joined the harem 
of the Veiled Prophet as ‘‘one of the 


| 
| 
| 
| 


prophet’s band, Zelica was appointed to 
lure him to his destruction, both of body 
and soul. They meet—Azim tells her 
to fly with him, but she tells him she is 
the prophet’s bride, and flees from his 
embrace. After the death of the prophet 
Zelica puts on his veil, and Azim, think- 
ing he sees the prophet, rushes on her 
and kills her. (Thomas Moore: Veiled 
Prophet of Khorassan ; Lalla Rookh.) 


Zelo’tes (3 syl.) or Sicavii were pious 
assassins among the Jews, who imposed 
on themselves the task of killing all who 
broke the Mosaic law. (Mishnah - San- 
hedrim, ix. 6.) 

“Simon Zelotes was probably adisciple of Judas 
the Gaulonite, leader of a party of the Kenaim 
(Sicar.i)."'—Renan: Life of Jesus, ix. 

Zem. The sacred wellof Mecca. Ac- 
cording to Arab tradition, this is the 
very well that was shown to Hagar when 
Ishmael was perishing of thirst. Mecca 
is built round it. 


Zen’chis Khan [qicatchicf]. Α title 
assumed in 1206 by Temoudin, a Persian 
rebel, in the presence of 100 tribes. His 
progress was like that of a destroying 
angel, and by his sword Persia became 
part of the vast Mogul empire, 


Zend-Aves'ta. ‘The great work of 
Zoroaster, or rather Zarathustra, the 
Mede, who reformed the Magian religion. 
It is the Avesta or ‘‘ Living Word,’’ 
written in the Zend language (B.c. 490). 
It now contains the Yacna, the Vis- 
pered, the Vendidad, and the Khordah- 
Avesta. 


“The sacred writings of the Parsees have 
usually been called Zend-Avesta by Europeans ; 
but this is, without doubt, an inversion of the 
proper order of the words, as the Pahlavi books 
always style them ὁ Avistak-va-Zand’ (text and 
commentary). — Hang: Essays on the Parsis, 
Essay lili. p. 19. 


Zenel/ophon. A corruption of Penel- 
ophon. The beggar-maid loved by King 


Cophe’tua. 

“The magnanimous and most illustrate king 
Cophetna set eve upon the pernicious and indubi- 
tate beggar Zenelophon.”—Shakespeare: Love's 
Labour's Lost, iv. 1. 

Ze’nith, Na'dir. Zenith is the point 
of the heavens immediately over the 
head of the spectator. Nadir is the 
opposite point, immediately beneath the 
spectator’s feet. (French, zénith, nadir.) 


Zephon [searcher of secrets]. The 
cherub despatched by Gabriel to find 
Satan, after his flight from hell. Ithn’- 
riel goes with him, (Milton: Paradise 
Lost, iv. 788-796.) 


Zephyr 


1323 


Zodiac 


Zeph’yr. The west wind, the son 
of A®’olus and Auro’ra, and the lover of 
Flora. (Roman mythology.) 

Pas de zephyr. Standing on one foot 
and balancing the other backwards and 
forwards. 


Zeus (1 syl.). The Grecian Jupiter. 
The word means the ‘‘living one.’’ 
(Sanskrit, Djaus, heaven.) (See Ju- 
PITER.) 


Zeux'is (2 syl.), a Grecian painter, 
is said to have painted some grapes so 
well that the birds came and pecked at 
them. 

ΕἸ ἢ as poor birds, deceived with painted grapes, 


Do surfeit by the eye, and pine the maw.” 
Shakespeare: Venus and Adonis. 
Zif. Hypcthetical stock, entered in 


‘salted accounts,’’ to give a colourable 
balance ‘‘ to the good.”? (Hebrew ziphr, 
a book.) (Vidocq: Les Voleurs, vol, 11. 
pp. 81, 87.) 


Zig. A prodigious cock, which stands 
with its feet on the earth aud touches 
heaven with its head. When its wings 
are spread it darkens the sun, and causes 
a total eclipse. ‘This cock crows before 


the Lord, and delighteth Him. (Baby- 
lonish Talnad.) 
Zig. A chum, a comrade. (Italian 


zigno, a newt or little lizard.) It gener- 
ally means we mauvais camarade, unless 
otherwise qualified, (French argot.) 

“Only the bon zig Rac.’—Ouida: Under Two 
Flags, chap xxv. 

Zim and Jim. ‘‘His house was 
made a habitation for Zim and Jim, and 
every unclean thing”’ (Godly Man’s Por- 
tion, 1663). The marginal reading of 
Isa. xii. 21, 22, explains Zim to be wild 
beasts, and Jim jackals. 


Zimri, in Dryden’s Absalom and Achi- 
tophel, is the second Duke of Bucking- 
ham. Like the captain who conspired 
against Asa, King of Judah, he ‘‘formed 
parties and joined factions,” but pending 
the issue ‘‘ he was drinking himself drunk 
in the house of Arza, steward of his 

nm 29 C7 oy 

house.’’ (1 Kings xvi. 9.) 

“Some of the chiefs were princes in the land ; 
In the first rank of these did Zimri stand ; 
A man so various that he seemed to be 
Not one, but all mankind's epitome. 

Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong, 

Was everything by starts, and nothing long.” 
Part 1. 543: 


Zin’cali. Gipsies; so called in Spain 
from Site or Sind (India) and calo 
(black), the supposition being that they 
came from Hindustan, which no doubt 
is true. The Persian Zangi means an 
Ethiopian or Egyptian. 


Zin'dikites (3 syl.). An heretical 
Mahometan sect, who disbelieve in God, 
the resurrection, and a future life, They 
think that the world is the production of 
four eternal elements, and that man is a 
microcosm of the world. 


Zineu'ra, in the Decameron of Boc- 
caccio (day ii. novel 9), is the Imogen of 
Shakespeare’s Cymbeline. In male attire 
Zineura assumed the name of Sicura’no 
da Finale, and Imogen of Fidelle. Zin- 
eura’s husband was Bernard Lomellin, 
and the villain was Ambrose. Imogen's 
husband was Posthumus Leonatus, and 
the villain Iachimo. In Shakespeare, 
the British king Cymbeline takes the 


place assigned by Boccaccio to the 
sultan. 
Zion. Daughter of Zion. Jerusalem 


or its inhabitants. The city of David 
stood on Mount Zion. Zion and Jeru- 
salem were pretty much in the same 
relation to each other as Old and New 
Edinburgh. (Hebrew, 7siyov, a hill.) 


Zist. ‘Se trouver entre le zist et le 
zest.”?> To be ina quandary; in a state 
of perfect bewilderment. Also, to shilly 
shally, ‘* Zest’? is anything of no value, 
as ‘* Cela ne vaut pas un zest”? (It is not 
worth a fig). ‘‘ Zist’’ is the same word 
slightly varied. 


Zobeide (2 syl.). A lady of Bagdad, 
whose history is related in the Three 
Calenders. ‘The Kalif Haroun-al-Ras- 
chid married her. (Arabian Nights.) 


Zo'diac. An imaginary belt or zone 
in the heavens, extending about eight 
degrees each side of the ecliptic. 

Signs of the Zodiac. The zodiac is 
divided into twelve equal parts, pro- 
ceeding from west to east; each part is 
thirty degrees, and is distinguished by a 
sien, Beginning with ‘‘ Ariés,” we have 
first six northern and then six southern 
signs—?.¢. six on the north side and six 
on the south side of the equator; be- 
ginning with ‘‘ Capricornus,’” we have 
six ascending and then six descending 
signs—i.¢. six which ascend higher and 
higher towards the north, and six which 
descend lower and lower towards the 
south. The six northern signs are: 
Ayvies (the ram), Zaurus (the bull), 
Gemini (the twins), spring signs; Cancer 
(the crab), Leo (the lion), ]%rgo (the 
virgin), summer signs. The six southern 
are: Libra (the balance), Scorpio (the 
scorpion), Sagittarius (the archer), 
autumn signs; Capricornus (the goat), 
Aqua'rius (the water-bearer), and Pisces 


Zohar 


1324 


Zulfagar 


(the fishes), winter signs. (Greek, 20-07, 
living creatures.) 


Our vernal signs the RAM begins, 

Then comes the BULL, in May the TWINS ;— 
The CRAB in June, next LEO shines, 

And Virco ends the northern signs, 


The BALANCE brings autumnal fruits, 
The SCORPION stings, the ARCHER shoots ;— 
December's GOAT brings wintry blast, 
AQUARIUS rain, the Fis come last. F.C. B. 

Zohar. The name of a Jewish book 
containing cabalistic expositions of the 
‘books of Moses.*’ ‘Traditionally as- 
cribed to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, first 
century ; but probably belonging to the 
thirteenth century. 

“The renowned Zobar is written in Aramaic, 
and sa commentary on the Pentateuch, accord- 
ing to its divisions into fifty-two hebdomadal 
le-sons."—Encyclpedia Britannica, vol. Xii. 
1". 818. 

Zoilism. Harsh, ill-tempered criti- 
cism ; so called from Zoilos (7.’.). 


Zoilos (Latin, Zoilus). The sword of 
Zvi'os. The pen of a critic. Zoilos was 
a literary Thersi'tés, shrewd, witty, and 
spiteful. He was nicknamed Home'ro- 
mastix (Homer’s scourge), because he 
mercilessly assailed the epics of Homer, 
and called the companions of Ulysses in 
the island of Circé ‘‘ weeping porkers”’ 
(‘‘choirid'ia klaionta”’). He also flew 
at Plato, Isoc’'rates, and other high 
game. 

“Pendentem volo Zoilum videre.” Martial. 

Zola-ise. To write like Zola, the 
French novelist, the last quarter of the 
nineteenth century. Zola is noted for 
his realistic novels, many of which are 
unfit for circulating libraries. His speci- 
ality is a reckless exposition of the licen- 
tious habits of the French. His historic 
novel, called the Débdcle, exposed the 
breakdown of Napoleon III. and his 
army in the Franco-German war (1870- 
1871). : 

Other parts of speech from Zola are 
Zolaesque, Zolaisation, Zolaiser, ete. 

* The most complimentary meaning 


of Zolaesque is the terrible descriptive 
style of writing. The more general 
meaning is licentious and coursely erotic. 


Zollverein, meaning customs union, 
a commercial union of German states 
for the purpose of establishing a uniform 
tariff of duties. (Begun 1819.) 


Zo'phiel. An angelic scout of ‘‘ swift- 
est wing.” The word means “ God’s 
spy.’ (Milton: Paradise Lost, vi. 355.) 


Zoraida (3 syl.). Daughter of Agi- 
mora'to of Algiers, who becomes a 
Christian and elopes with Ruy Perez de 
Viedma, an officer of Leon. The story 
is told in an episode of Don Quixote, 
called The Captives Life and Adven- 
tures. (Bk. iv. chap, ix.-xi.) 


Zoraide (3 syl.) or Zoraida. The 
name of a yacht belonging to the squad- 
ron at Cowes. This name is taken from 
Rossini’s Zoraidi et Coradin, 


Zounds! An oath, meaning God's 
wounds. 


Zulal. That stream of Paradise, clear 
as crystal and delicious as nectar, which 
‘the spirits of the just made perfect” 
drink οὗ, 

Zulei'ka. Daughter of Giaffir, Pacha 
of Abydos, She is all purity and love- 
liness. Her intelligence, joyousness, 
undeviating love, and strict regard to 
duty are beautifully portrayed, She 
promises to flee with Selim and become 
his bride ; but her father, Giaffir, shoots 
her lover, and Zuleika dies of a broken 
heart. (Byron: Bride of Abydos.) 

Zuleika, The wife of Joseph. 

“Tt is less costly than the others, and if is re- 
markable that, although his wife’s name, Zuleika 


(according to tradition), is inserted in the cer- 
tificates given to pilgrims, no grave having that 


name is shown.”—The Times (Report of the visit of 
the Prince of Wales to the mosque of Hebron), 


Zulfa’gar. Ali’ssword. (See Sworn.) 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL APPENDIX. 


—— 9 


A’Beckett, Arthur W. (b. Ham- 
mersmith, October 25th, 1844), ‘‘ Fallen 
among Thieves ’’ (1870) ; ‘* Our Holiday 
in the Highlands’’ (1876); ‘‘ The Ghost 
of Greystone Grange ”’ (1877) ; with Bur- 
nand, ‘‘ The Doom of St. Querce”’ (1875) ; 
‘“* The Shadow Witness ᾽ (1876) ; ‘‘ Hard 
Luck”? (1884) ; ““ Tracked Out’’ (1888) ; 
“Papers from Pump-Handle Court” 
(from Punch), (1889); ‘*The Member 
tor Wrottenborough’”’ (1892). Plays: 
“oT ἢ D2 (1872): “About Town "ἢ 
(1873); ‘‘On Strike ’’ (1873). Edited 
Glowworm and Tomahawk, and has pub- 
lished an edition of Gilbert A’Beckett’s 
ςς Comic Blackstone ”’ (1887). 


A’Beckett, Gilbert Abbot (Ὁ. 1811; 
d. Boulogne, August 30th, 1856). More 
than thirty plays. The ‘‘ Quizziology 
of the British Drama ᾽᾽ (1846) ; ““ Comic 


Blackstone ” (1846) ; ““ Comic History of | 


England ’”’ (1847-48), ‘‘ The Comic His- 
tory of Rome” (1852). He _ edited 
Lligaro in London and The Squib, and 
contributed much to various journals, 


Abbott, Rev. Edwin, D.D. (b. 
London, 1838). ‘‘ Shakespearian Gram- 
mar ᾽᾽ (1869) ; ‘‘ Bible Lessons”’ (1872) ; 
“Cambridge Sermons ”’ (1875) ; ‘* Con- 
cordance to Pope”? (1875); ‘‘ Through 
Nature to Christ ’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Bacon and 
Essex ’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Philochristus ” (1878) ; 
** Onesimus ” (1882); ‘‘ Flatland ’’ (1884); 
“ Francis Bacon’ (1885) ; ‘* The Kernel 
and the Husk ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Philomythus”’ 


(1891); ‘* The Anglican Career of 
Cardinal Newman’ (1892). Edited 


“ Bacon’s Essays” (1876). 


Addison, Joseph (b. Milston, Wilt- 
shire, May Ist, 1672; d. Holland House, 
June 17th, 1719). ‘The Campaign”’ 
(1704) ; ‘‘ Remarks on Several Parts of 
Italy” (1705); ‘‘ Present State of the 
War”? (1707); ‘‘ Poems” (1712); five 
of the Whig Examiner (1712); ‘‘ Cato” 
(1713) ; ‘* Essay Concerning the Error in 
Distributing Modern Medals’? (1715) ; 
“Poems to the Princess of Wales and 
Sir Godfrey Kmeller”’ (1716); “ Disser- 


Poets”’ (1718) ; ‘* Notes upon the Twelve 
Books of ‘ Paradise Lost,’’’ (1719); ‘‘ Free- 
holder’’ (1722); ‘‘ Dialogues upon the 
Usefulness οὐ Ancient Medals’ (1726) ; 
“* Ode to Dr. Thomas Burnet ”’ (1727) ; 
“Divine Poems ”’ (1728) ; ‘‘ On the Evi- 
dence of the Christian Religion ᾽ (1730) ; 


| and ‘‘ Discourses on Ancient and Mod- 


ern Learning”? (1739). Wrote for 
Steele’s Tatler (1709), and 274 out of 635 
numbers of Spectator (1711-12). His 
‘* Works’’ were published in 1765 with 
a ‘* Life’? by Tickell. The best edition, 
Greene’s (New York and London, 1854). 
For Biography, see Johnson’s ‘ Lives 
of the Poets;’’ the ‘‘ Lives’’ by Steele 
(1724), Sprengel (1810), Lucy Aikin 
(1843), Elwin (1857), and the ‘‘ Addi- 
soniana’’ of Sir Richard Phillips. For 
Criticism, see Macaulay’s ““ Essays,”’ 
Jefirey’s ‘‘ Essays,’’? Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Comic 
Writers,’’ TThackeray’s ‘* Humorists 
of the Eighteenth Century,’ Leslie 
Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours in a Library,”’ ete. 


Aidé, Hamilton (b Paris, 1830). 
“*Carr of Carlyon”’ (1862); ‘‘Mr. and 
Mrs. Faulconbridge” (1864); ‘‘ The 
Romance of the Scarlet Leaf and Other 
Poems” (1865); ‘‘The Marstons’’ 
(1868) ; ‘‘ In that State of Life’’ (1871) ; 
‘* Morals and Mysteries ’’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Pen- 


| ruddocke’’ (1873); ‘‘ Poet and Peer” 


(1880);  ‘‘ Introduced to Society” 
(1884) ; “ΤῈ Cliff Mystery ’’ (1884) ; 
“Songs Without Music” (1889); ‘A 
Voyage of Discovery ”’ (1892); ‘‘ Eliza- 
beth’s Pretenders” (1895). He has also 
written the words to many songs, 


Ainger, Canon Alfred (b. London, 


1837). ‘*Sermons Preached in the 
Temple Church” (1870); ‘‘ Charles 
Lamb” (1882). Has edited Lamb’s 
Works. 


Ainsworth, William Francis, M.D. 
(Ὁ. Exeter, November 9th, 1807), ‘‘ Re- 
searches in Assyria, Babylonia, etc.’’ 
(1838) ; ‘‘ Travels and Researches in 
Asia Minor, Mesopotamia, ete.’’ (1842) ; 
“Travels in the Track of the Ten 


tations on the most celebrated Roman | Thousand Greeks”? (1844), etc. 


Ainsworth 


1826 


Alcuin 


Ainsworth, William Harrison (b. 
February 4th, 1805; d. January 3rd, 
1882). ‘‘Sir John Chiverton’’ (1826) ; 
“Rookwood”? (1884) ; ‘Crichton’? (1837) ; 
“¢ Jack Sheppard ”’ (1839) ; ‘‘ The Tower 
of London’’ (1840); ‘* Guy Fawkes,” 
“(Old St. Paul’s ’”’ (1841) ; ‘* The Miser’s 
Daughter,’’ ‘‘ Windsor Castle,’’ ‘St. 
James’s,’’ ‘‘ Lancashire Witches”’ (1848) ; 
‘¢The Star Chamber”’ (1854); ‘*The 
Flitch of Bacon,’’ ‘‘ Ballads, Roman- 
tic, Fantastical, and Humorous”’ (1856); 
the ‘‘Spendthrift’”’? (1856); ‘‘ Mervyn 
Clitheroe ᾽ (1857) ; the ‘‘ Combat of the 
Thirty” (a poem), ‘‘Ovingdean Grange ”’ 
(1860) ; “6 Constable of the Tower” 
(1861) ; the ‘* Lord Mayor of London”’ 
(1862) ; ‘* Cardinal Pole ’’ (1863) ; ‘‘ John 
Law, the Projector” (1864); the ‘‘ Con- 
stable de Bourbon”? (1866); ‘* Old 
Court,” ‘‘ The Spanish Match’’ (1867) ; 
‘‘Myddleton Pomfret ’’ (1868); ‘* Hil- 
ary St. Ives’’ (1870); ‘* The Good Old 
Times’ (1873); ‘* Merry England ”’ 
(1874); ‘‘ Preston Fight ’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ The 
Goldsmith’s Wife’? (1875); ‘‘Chet- 
wynd Calverley ’’ (1876) ; and ‘‘ Beatrice 
Tyldesley ’’ (1878). Edited DBentley’s 
and New Monthly. 


Aird, Thomas (b. Bowden, Rox- 
burghshire, August 28th, 1802; d. Dum- 
fries, 1876).  ‘* Religious Character- 
istics’? (1827); the ‘*Old Bachelor in 
the Old Scottish Village’’ (1848) ; the 
‘‘ Devil’s Dream,’? the ‘‘Captive of 
Fez,’’ and other poems (1856 and 1878, 
with ‘‘ Life’’), Edited Dumfries Herald. 
See Gilfillan’s ‘‘ Literary Portraits,”’ 


Airy, Sir George B., K.C.B. (b. 
Alnwick, November 27th, 1801; d. 
January Ist, 1892). ‘* Astronomical Ob- 
servations’’ (Cambridge, 9 vols., 1829- 
38) ; ““ Gravitation”? (1834) ; ‘‘ Ipswich 
Nectures on Astronomy ’’ (1849) ; ‘ Trig- 
onometry ”’ (1855); ‘Errors of Obser- 
vation’? (1861); ‘The Invasion of 
Britain by Julius Cesar’? (1865) ; 
““ Sound ”’ (1869) ; ““ Magnetism ᾽ (1870), 
etc. Also contributed important papers 
to the Transactions of several scientific 
societies, 


Akenside, Mark, M.D. (Ὁ. New- 
castle, November 9th, 1721; d. London, 
June 23rd, 1770). ‘*An Epistle to 
Curio”’ (1744); ‘Pleasures of the 
Imagination ”’ (1744); 2nd edition with 
the Poems (1772) ; ‘‘ Ode to Lord Hunt- 
ingdon’’ (1748); ‘‘ Ode to Country 
Gentlemen of England’’ (1757) ; ‘‘ Ode 
to the Late Thomas Edwards” (1763) ; 
“De Ortu et Incremento Fetus Hu- 


mani’’ (1744) ; ‘‘ Notes on the Postscript 
of a Pamphlet entitled ‘ Observations, 
Anatomical, etc.’ ’’ (1758); ‘* Oratio 
Harveiana’’ (1760); ‘‘De Dysentaria 
Commentarius ”’ (1764). Poetical Works, 
including unpublished fragment (1804). 
Lives by Johnson, Bucke, Dyce. 


Alcock, Sir Rutherford, K.C.B., 
D.C.L. (b. London, 1809). ““ Notes on 
the Medical History of the British 
Legion of Spain’? (1838); ‘* Elements 
of Japanese Grammar ”’ (1861); ‘* The 
Capital of the Tycoon ”’ (1863) ; ‘‘ Fam- 
iliar Dialogues in Japanese’? (1863); 
“ Art in Japan ”’ (1878). 


Alcuin (Ὁ. York, 735; ἃ, Tours, May 
19th, 804). Works:—(1) The ‘‘ Com- 
mentaries on the Scriptures,’ consisting 
of ‘‘ Questions and Answers on the Book 
ot Genesis ;’’ ‘‘ Comments on the Peni- 
tential Psalms,’’ on the ‘‘Song of Solo- 
mon,’’ and on the ‘‘ Book of Ecclesi- 
astes ;’’ the “ Interpretationes Nominum 
Hebraicum ;’’ and the ‘‘ Commentaries 
on the Gospel of St. John,’’ and on the 
‘‘Three Epistles of St. Paul.”? (2) The 
“Dogmatie Writings,’ including the 
treatises ‘‘De Fide Trinitatis et De 
Processione Spiritus Sancti,’? and the 
books ‘‘ Against Felix’? and ‘ Elipan- 
dus.’? (3) The Liturgic Works: the 
‘‘Liber Sacramentorum,’’ the treatise 
‘“‘De Psalmorum Usu,’’ the ‘ Officia 
per Ferias,’’ and the tracts ‘‘De Vir- 
tutibus et Vitiis’? and ‘‘De Anime 
Ratione.”? To these are added ‘‘ Lives 
of St. Martin of Tours,’”’ of ‘St, Rich- 
arius,’? of ‘‘ Wilbrord,’? and of ‘St. 
Vedastus,’? the last of which was 
merely corrected and edited by Alcuin 
from an older writer ; and four treatises, 
“De Grammatica,”’ ‘‘ De Orthographia,’’ 
“De Rhetorica et Virtutibus,’’ and ‘‘ De 
Dialectica.’’ The complete ‘‘ Works”’ 
were published by André Duchesne 
under the Latinised name of ‘‘ Andreas 
Quercetanus’’? in 1617, and again, in 
1777, by Frobenius, Prince-Abbot of St. 
Emmeram, at Ratisbon. A list of the 
editions of the separate works will be 
found in Wright’s ‘‘ Biographia Britan- 
nica Literaria.”’ For Biography, sce 
the ‘‘ Life,’’ written in $29 and printed 
in the editions of the ‘‘ Works”’ in the 
** Acta SS. Ord. 8. Bened.”’ of Mabillon, 
in the collection of Surius, and in the 
‘* Acta Sanctorum ’’ of the Bollandists; 
also the sketch by Mabillon ; the ‘‘ Life ”’ 
by Frobenius, prefixed to his edition ; 
the ‘‘ Life’? by Professor Lorenz, of 
Halle (1829), translated into English by 
Jane Mary Slee (1837) ; the ‘‘ Dictionary 


Aldrich 


1327 


Andrewes 


of National Biography,’’ and Morley’s 
“English Writers,” vol. ii. 

Aldrich, Henry, D.D. (b. Westmin- 
ster, 1647; d. Oxford, Dec. 14th, 1710). 
‘‘ Artis Logica Compendium” (162), 
and ““ Elementa Architecturz Ciyilis ad 
Vitruvii Veterumque Disciplinum οὗ 
Recentiorum presertim ad Paladiu Ex- 
empta Probatiori Concinnata”’ (trans- 
lated 1789). 


Alexander, Mrs., vee Mrs. Annie 
Hector, ”é¢ French (Ὁ. Dublin about 1825). 
‘* Which Shall It Be?” (1860); ‘‘ The 
Wooing o’t’’ (1873); ‘‘ Maid, Wife, or 
Widow? ”’ (1879) ; ‘* Mammon ”’ (1892) ; 
‘The Snare of the Fowler”’ (1892) ; ‘‘For 
His Sake’’ (1892); ‘‘The Heritage of 
Langdale ’”’ (1894) ; ‘‘ A Choice of Evils”’ 
(1894) ; ‘*‘What Gold Cannot Buy” 
(1895), ete. ete. ~ 


Alexander of Hales [Halensis] 
(d. 1245). ‘Summa Theologize Quadri- 
partite ’’ (1481-82); ‘‘ Super Tertium 
Sententiarum”’ (1475); ‘‘Commentaries”’ 
(1496), See Kerchinger’s ‘‘ Clavis Theo- 
logiz seu Repertorium in Summam 
Alexandri de Hales”’ (1502). Best edition 
of ‘‘Summa,’’ Cologne, 1622, 

Alford, Henry, D.D. (b. London, 
1810; d. Jan. 12th, 1871). ‘*‘ Poems and 
Poetical Fragments’’ (1831); ‘* The School 
of the Heart and Other Poems” (1838) ; 
“The Abbot of Muchelnaye and Other 
Poems”’ (1841); ‘*‘Chapters on Poetry 
and Poets’’ (1841); ‘‘ The Doctrines of 
Redemption ”’ (1842-43) ; Edition of the 
Greek 'festament (1844-52) ; ‘* Sermons’’ 
(1854-57) ; ‘‘ Village Sermons ”’ (1846) ; 
**Plea for Queen’s English’? (1864). 
“* Life’? (1873). “ 

Alfred, King of England (Ὁ. Wan- 
tage, Berkshire, 848 ; d. Oct. 27th, 901). 
Translated into English Bede’s ‘‘ Eccle- 
siastical History,’’ Orosius’s ‘‘ Universal 
History,’ Beethius’s ‘‘ De Consolatione 
Philosophie,” and Gregory I.’s ‘‘ Pastoral 
on the Care of the Soul.’’ ‘* Biographies”’ 
by Powell (1634), Spelman (1678), Bick- 
nell (1777), and by Thomas Hughes, 
M.P., in the Sunday Library. See also 
Wright’s ‘‘ Biographia Britannica,”’ the 
**Dictionary of National Biography,”’ 
and Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vol. ii. 

Alison, Rev. Archibald (b. Edin- 
burgh, 1757 ; d. Edinburgh, 1839). ‘* Es- 
say on the Nature and Principles of 
Taste’’ (1790) ; ‘‘ Sermons” (1814-15) ; 
and a ‘‘ Memoir of the Life and Writings 
of Lord Woodhouselee’’ (1818). See 
Lord Jeffrey’s ‘‘ Essays,” and Sinclair’s 
**Old Times and Distant Places.”’ 


Alison, Sir Archibald, Bart. (b. 
Kenley, Shropshire, 1792 ; ἃ. May, 1867). 
‘* History of Europe, from the French 
Revolution of 1789 to the Accession of 
Napoleon ITI.’’ (1839-42) ; ‘‘ Principles 
of Population ’’ (1840); ‘‘ Free Trade and 
Fettered Currency ’’ (1847) ; a ‘‘ Lite of 
the Duke of Marlborough” (1848) ; 
“Hssays : Historical, Political, and Mis- 
cellaneous’”’ (1850); and other Works. 
See the Quarterly Review, vols. 1xx., 
Ixxii., Ixxiii., Ixxvi.; the Ldinburgh 
Review, vol. Ixxvi.; the Westminster 

Review, vol. xli.; and the North Aimeri- 
can Review, vols. vill., X., ΧΙ.) XX. 


Allen, Charles Grant (b. Kingston, 
Canada, Feb. 24th, 1848). ‘* Physiologi- 
cal Aisthetics’’ (1877); ‘‘The Colour 
Sense” (1879); ‘‘The Evolutionist at 
Large’’ (1881) ; ‘‘ Colin Clout’s Calen- 
dar”? (1883);  ‘‘ Philistia’’ (1884) ; 
‘* Flowers and their Pedigrees’’ (1885) ; 
“‘Charles Darwin ᾽᾽ (1885) ; ‘‘ Babylon ”’ 
(1885) ; ‘‘ For Maimie’s Sake’? (1886) ; 
“Tn all Shades ”’ (1886) ; ‘* The Beckon- 
ing Hand ”’ (1887); “ Force and Energy ” 
(1888); ‘‘ The Devil’s Die’ (1888) ; 
“This Mortal Coil’’ (1888) ; “ὙΠΟ Tents 
of Shem’”’ (1889) ; ‘*‘ The Woman Who 
Did” (1895) ; ‘* Under Sealed Orders ”’ 
(1895), etc. 


Allingham, William (b. Ballyshan- 
non, March 19th, 1823; d. Noy. 18th, 
1889). ‘Poems’ (1850); ‘‘Day and 
Night Songs”’ (1850) ; ‘‘‘The Music Mas- 
ter and Other Poems” (1857) ; ‘‘ Choicest 
British Ballads” (1864); ‘‘ Fifty Modern 
Poems”’ (1865) ; ‘‘ Laurence Bloomfield 
in Ireland” (1869); ‘‘In Fairy Land ”’ 
(1870) ; ‘Songs, Ballads, and Stories”’ 
(1877); ‘‘The Fairies”? (1883) ; ‘*‘ Evil 
May-Day”’ (1883); ‘‘ Ashby Manor” 
(1883) ; ‘‘ Rhymes for the Young”’ (1887); 
‘Trish Songs and Poems’ (1887); 
‘“‘Flower Pieces and Other Poems”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ Life and Phantasy”’ (1889). 
Edited Fraser’s Magazine. 

Allon, Henry, D.D. (b. Yorkshire, 
Oct. 13th, 1838; d. April 16th, 1892). 
‘“*Memoir of Rev. J. Sherman’’ (1863) ; 
“The Vision of God,’ etc. (1876). 
Edited the British Quarterly Review. 
Memoir by Rev. J. Hardy Harwood, 
with selections (1894). 


Andrewes, Lancelot (b. London, 
1555 ; d. Winchester, March 27th, 1625). 
Reply to Bellarmine’s treatise against 
King James I.'s ‘‘ Defence of the Right 
of Kings’’ (1609) ; ‘‘ Manual of Devo- 
tion,’ in Greek and Latin, translated by 
Dean Stanhope; ‘‘ Works ’’ (1589-1610). 


Angus 


1328 


Arnold 


Selected ‘‘ Sermons’? (1868) ; ‘f Manual 
for the Sick,’’ edited by Canon Liddon 
(1869). 


, Rev. Joseph, D.D. (b. 
Bolam, Northumberland, Jan. 16th, 
1816). ‘*Handbook of the Bible,”’ 


‘*Handbook of the English Tongue,’’ 
‘English Literature,’’ etc. Has edited 
works of Bishop Butler, ete. 


Anstey, F., vere Thomas Anstey 
Guthrie (b. Kensington, 1856). ‘* Vice 
Versa ’’ (1882); ‘‘The Giant’s Robe” 
(1884); ‘* The Black Poodle,”’ ete. (1884); 
‘* The Tinted Venus ”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ A Fallen 
Idol’? (1886); ‘‘ Burglar Bill,’’ ete. 
(1888) ; ‘‘ The Pariah’’ (1889); ‘ Tour- 
malin’s Time Cheques’’ (1891); ‘ The 
Talking MHorse,”’ etc. (1892); ‘‘ Mr. 
Punch’s Model Music Hall Songs and 
Dramas’? (1892); ‘The ‘Travelling 
Companions’”’ (1892); ‘‘ The Man from 

*Blankley’s,’”’ ete. (1893) ; ‘‘ Mr. Punch’s 
Pocket Ibsen’’ (1893); ‘‘ Under the 
Rose”? (1894); ‘‘Lyre and Lancet’’ 
(1895); ‘* Voces Populi,” ete. 


Arbuthnot, John, M.D. (b. Arbuth- 
not, near Montrose, 1675 ; ἃ. Hampstead, 
Feb. 27th, 1735). ‘‘ An Examination of 
Dr.Woodward’s Account of the Deluge ”’ 
(1697) ; ‘*‘ An Essay on the Usefulness of 
Mathematical Learning ;’”’ ‘‘ A Treatise 
Concerning the Altercation or Scolding 
of the Ancients;’’ ‘‘ The Art of Political 
Lying; ”’ ‘‘ Law is a Bottomless Pit, or 
the History of John Bull” (1713); 
“Tables of Ancient Coms’ (1727). 
“ Works’’ (1650-51). 


Archer, William (b. Perth, 1856). 
“ English Dramatists of bees i (1882) ; 
“Henry Irving: A Critical Study ” 
(1883) ; ‘‘About the Theatre’’ (1886) ; 
‘Masks or Faces?” (1888); ‘ Wil- 
liam Charles Macready ”’ (1890) ; ‘‘The 
Theatrical World’’ (annual); transla- 
tions from Ibsen, ete. 


Argyll, Duke of, George Douglas 
Campbell (Ὁ. 1823). ‘‘ Letter to the 
Peers from a Peer’s Son” (1842) ; ‘‘ Duty 
of Immediate Legislative Interposition in 
Behalf of the Church of Scotland ”’ 
(1842); ‘* Letter to Dr. Chalmers ”’ 
(1842) ; ** Presbytery Examined ”’ (1848); 
“Administration of Lord Dalhousie’’ 
(1865) ; ‘‘The Reign of Law” (1866) ; 
“Primeval Man ”’ (1869) ; ‘‘ The History 
and Antiquities of Iona’’ (1870); ‘‘The Pa- 
tronage Act’’ (1874) ; ‘‘ On the Relations 
of Landlord and Tenant” (1877) ; ‘‘ The 
Eastern Question, from the Treaty of 
Paris to the Treaty of Berlin, and to the 
Second Afghan War’’ (1879); ‘The 


Prophet of San Francisco,’ in the Nine- 
teenth Century (1884); ** The Unity of 
Nature ’’ (1884); ‘‘ Scotland as it Was 
and as it Is’? (1887) ; ‘‘ The New British 
Constitution and its Master-Builders” 
(1888); ‘‘What is Truth?’’ (1889); 
‘Trish Nationalism’ (1893); “The 
Unseen Foundations of Society ’’ (1893) ; 
‘“‘The Burdens of Belief and Other 
Poems ᾽᾽ (1894). 


Arnold, Sir Arthur (b. May 28th, 
1833). ‘‘Ralph’’ (1863); ‘“‘The His- 
tory of the Cotton Famine’’ (1864) ; 
‘* Hever Court’’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Letters from 
the Levant’? (1868); ‘* Through Persia 
by Caravan’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Social Politics ”’ 
(1878); ‘*Free Land” (1880). First 
editor of the Echo. 


Arnold, Sir Edwin, K.C.I.E., C.S.I. 
(Ὁ. June 10th, 1832). ‘* The Feast of 
Belshazzar ’’ (Newdigate Prize, 1852) ; 
‘“‘Poems, Narrative and Lyrical ” 
(1853) ; ““ Griselda, a Drama ’”’ (1856) ; 
‘* Education in India” (1860); ‘‘The 
Hitapodesa,’’ a translation (1861); ‘A 
History of the Administration of India 
under the late Marquis of Dalhousie’’ 
(1864) ; ‘‘ The Poets of Greece ’’ (1869) ; 
translation of ‘‘ Hero and Leander’”’ 
1873); ‘* The Indian Song of Songs”’ 
(1875); The Light of Asia” (1879) ; 
‘Pearls of Faith” (1883); ‘‘ Indian 
Idylls’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ The Secret of Death ”’ 
(1885) ; ‘* The Song Celestial ’’ (1885) ; 
“India Revisited ’’ (1886) ; ‘* Lotus and 
Jewel ’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ With Sadi in a Gar- 
den’’ (1888); ‘‘Poems, National and 
Non-Oriental’’ (1888) ; “Τὴ My Lady’s 
(1889) ; ‘‘ The Light of the 
World”’’ (1891); “‘Seas and Lands” 
(1891); ‘Japonica’? (1891); ‘‘ Poti- 
phar’s Wife and Other Poems”’ (1892) ; 
‘The Book of Good Counsels’’ (1893) ; 
“ Adzuma’’ (1893) ; “ Wandering 
Words” (1894); ‘‘The Tenth Muse,”’ 
Editor of the Daily Tae- 


Praise ’’ 


ete. (1895). 
graph. 

Arnold, Matthew, D.C.L. (Ὁ. Lale- 
ham, 1822; ἃ. 1888). ‘‘Cromwell’’ 
(Newdigate Prize, 1843) ; ‘‘ The Strayed 
Reveller ”’ (1848) ; ‘‘ Empedocles on Etna 
and Other Poems’ (1852) ; ‘‘ Poems ”’ 
(1854) ; ‘‘ Merope ”’ (1858) ; ‘‘ Lectures on 
Translating Homer’’ (1861-62); ‘A 
French Eton,or Education and theState”’ 
(1864) ; ‘‘ Essays on Criticism ”’ (1865) ; 
“The Study of Celtic Literature’’ (1867) ; 
“‘ Schools and Universities on the Con- 
tinent ”’ (1868) ; ‘‘ New Poems ”’ (1868) ; 
“‘Culture and Anarchy ᾿ (1869); ‘‘St. 


Paul and Protestantism’? (1870) ; 


Arnold 


1329 


Austin 


‘« Friendship’s Garland’’ (1871); “A 
Bible Reading for Schools’? (1872) ; 
“Literature and Dogma’ (18738); 
“¢ Higher Schools of Germany ”’ (1874) ; 
“God and the Bible’’ (1875); ‘ Last 
Essays on Church and State’’ (1877) ; 
“Mixed Essays’’ (1879); ‘‘ Irish Es- 
says’? (1882); and ‘“ Discourses in 
America’’ (1886). An edition of his 
‘Poems’? was published in 1877. For 
Criticism, see ‘‘ Hissays,’’ by W. Ὁ. 
Roscoe; ‘‘ My Study Windows,” by J. 
R. Lowell; A. C. Swinburne’s ‘‘ Essays 
and Studies ;’’ Hutton’s ‘‘ Essays ;’’ the 
Bishop of Derry in ‘‘ Dublin Lectures 
ou Literature, Science, and Art;”’ ‘‘The 
ey and Letters of A. H. Clough,’ vol. 

: the Westininster Review , July, 1863 ; 
the Quarterly Review, October, 1868, and 
April, 1869; the Edinburgh Review, 
April, 1869; the Contemporary Review, 
vol. xxiv., etc. 


Arnold, Thomas, D.D. (b. West 
Cowes, 1795; d. Fox How, Ambleside, 
July 12th, 1842). ‘‘ History of Rome,”’’ 
“The Later Roman Commonwealth ” 
(1845); ‘‘Sermons’”’ (1845). Edited 
of Thucydides.” Biographies : Stanley’s 
(1844), Warboise’s (1859). See Nean- 
der’s ‘* Arnold’s Theology.”’ 


Ascham, Roger (b. Kirkby Wiske, 
1515; ἃ. December, 1568). ‘‘'Toxophilus, 
the Schole of Shootinge”’ (1544); ‘A 
Report and Discourse on the Affaires and 
State of Germany, and the Emperor 
Charles his Court during Certaine Yeares 
(1550-52)? (1452) ; ‘* The Scholemaster ἢ 
(1570) ; ‘* Apologia pro Ccoena Dominica 
contra Missam et eius Prestigias’’ (1577) ; 
“ Bpistolarum Libri Tres”? (1578). Eng- 
lish ‘‘ Works’? were collected 1761, with 
“Life”? by Dr. Johnson; again edited 
by Dr. Giles in 1865. Sve also Graut’s 
““De Vita et Ob. Rogeri Aschami,’’ 
Hartley Coleridge’s ‘‘ Northern Wor- 
thies,’’ and Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,”’ 
vols. vill. and ix, 

Ashmole, Elias (b. 
23rd, 1617; ἃ. May 18th, 1692). ‘‘ Thea- 
trum Chemicum Britannicum’’ (1652) : 
‘¢Fasciculus Chemicus’’ (1654) ; ‘* The 
Way to Bliss” (1658); ‘‘The Institu- 
tion, Laws, and Ceremonies ot the Most 
Noble Order of the Garter’’ (i672) ; and 


Lichfield, May 


* Antiquities of Berkehine OUP 
“* Memoirs ”’ (1717). 
Atherstone, Edwin (b. 1788, d. 


1872). ‘*Last Days of Herculaneum ”’ 
(1821); ‘‘Midsummer Day’s Dream”’ 
(1822) ; ‘The Fall of Nineveh” (1828, 
1830, 1847) ; ‘‘ Sea-Kings of England ” 


84 


| many ”’ 


(1830) ; ‘* The Handwriting on the Wall’’ 
(1858) ; ‘‘ Israel in Egypt’’ (1861). 
Atterbury, Francis, D.D., Bishop 
of Rochester (b. Milton Keynes, Bucks, 
March 6th, 1662; d. Paris, February 15th, 
1732). ‘‘* Absalom and Achitophel’ Lat- 
inised ’’ (1682) ; ‘* Considerations on the 
Spirit of Martin Luther ’’ (1687); ‘‘Atter- 
buryana”’ (1727); ‘‘Sermons’’ (1740) ; 
“Works” (1789-98) ; “ Private Corre- 
spondence” (1768) ; ‘‘Epistolary Corre- 
spondence ”’ (1783); Biographies: Stack- 
house’s (1727). ‘*‘ Memoirs’’ (1723) and 
“* Memoirs and Correspondence ᾽ (1869). 


Austen, Jane (b. Steventon, Hamp- 
shire, December 16th, 1775; d. Winches- 
ter, July 24th, 1817). ‘*Sense and Sen- 
sibility ’’ (1811); ‘‘ Pride and Prejudice ”” 
(1812) ; ‘* Mansfield Park’ (1814) ; 
“Emma ”’ (1816) ; ‘‘ Northanger Abbey”’ 
(1818) ; ‘* Persuasion’? (1818); ‘‘ Lady 
Susan’ (1872). Life prefixed to ‘‘ North- 


anger Abbey”? and Memoir by Austen- 
Leigh (1870). Sze also ‘‘ Jane Austen’s 


Letters,’’ edited by Lord Brabourne, 
and ‘‘ Life’? by Goldwin Smith (1890). 


Austin, Alfred (b. Devonshire, 
1835). ‘* Randolph”’ (1854) ; ‘‘ The Sea- 
son ’’ (1861); ‘‘The Human Tragedy ”’ 
(1862 and 1876); “An Artist’s Proof”’ 
(1864); “οι by a Head” (1865) ; “A 
Vindication of Lord Byron’’ (1869) ; 
‘““The Poetry of the Period’? (1870) ; 
“The Golden Age’’ (1871); ‘‘ Inter- 
ludes’’? (1872); ‘‘Rome or Death” 
(1873) ; * Madonna’s Child” (1873) ; ‘‘ The 
Towcr of Babel’? (1874); ‘‘ Lezko the 
Bastard ”’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Savonarola”’ (1881); 
‘* Soliloquies in Song ’”’ (1882); ‘‘ At the 
Gate of the Convent” (1885) ; ‘* Prince 
Lucifer ’’ (1887) ; ‘* Love’s Widowhood "ἢ 
(1889) ;  ‘*‘ Lyrical Poems” (1891); 
‘* Narrative Poems ”’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Fortuna- 
tus the Pessimist’’ (1892); ‘* The Gar- 
den that I Love” (1894). Collected 
Edition of the Poems, 1892. Edited the 
National Review. 

Austin, Sarah (Ὁ. Norwich, 1793; 
d. Weybridge, August 8th, 1867). 
‘Characteristics of Goethe” (1833) ; 
“Selections from the Old Testament ”’ 
(1833) ; ‘* National Education’ (1839) ; 
‘*Fragments from the German Prose 
Writers "ἢ (1841) ; ‘‘Sketches of Ger- 
J (1854); ‘* Letters on Girls’ 
Schools ” (1857); and translations of 
“The Story without an End” (1856) ; 
“Ranke’s History of the Popes,’ and 
his ‘* History of the Reformation in 
Germany.” ce Macaulay’s Essay in 
the Edinburgh Review for 1840. 


Aytoun 


Aytoun, William Edmonstoune 
(b. Edinburgh, 1813; d. Edinburgh, 
1865). ‘‘The Life and Times of Richard 
1., King of England ”’ (1840) ; ‘‘ Lays of 
the Scottish Cavaliers’? (1849); ‘* Fir- 
milian ’? (1854); ‘‘ Bothwell”? (1856) ; 
“Norman Sinclair ’’ (1861) ; “Α Nup- 
tial Ode on the Marriage of the Prince 
οὗ Wales ᾽ (1863) ; ‘* The Glenmutchkin 
Railway ’’ and ‘“‘ How I Became a Yeo- 
man,” tales from Blackwood (1858). 
Collaborated with Sir T. Martin in ‘‘ Bon 
Gaultier Ballads’’ (1854), and edited 
“ Ballads of Scotland ”’(1858). Biography 
by Martin (1867). 


B 


Babbago, Charles (b. Teignmouth, 
December 26th, 1792; d. October 18th, 
1871). ‘*‘ Differential Calculus ’’ (1816) ; 
“Letter to Sir H. Davy ’’ (1822); ‘ As- 
surance of Life’? (1826); ‘* Table 
of Logarithms ἢ 
Science’? (1830) ; ‘‘ Economy of Manu- 
factures”’ (1832) ; ‘‘ Ninth Bridgewater 
Treatise’? (1837); ‘Turning and Plan- 
ing Tools’ (1846); ‘‘The Great Exhi- 
bition’? (1851); ‘‘ Passages from the 
Life of a Philosopher ’’ (1864), 


Babington, Professor Charles 
Cardale (Ὁ. Ludlow, 1808; d. June 22nd, 
1895). ‘* Floraof Channel Islands” (1839); 
“*Manual of British Botany” (1843) ; 
‘* Ancient Cambridgeshire ’’ (1851) ; 
‘“‘ Flora in Cambridgeshire’? (1860) ; 
“The British Rubi” (1869) ; ““ History 
of St. John’s College Chapel, Cam- 
bridge ᾽ (1874). 


Bacon, Francis, Lord Verulam 
(Ὁ. London, January 22nd, 1561; d. High- 
gate, 1626). ‘‘ Essays’’ (1597, 1612, 1624) ; 
‘* Advancement of Learning’ (1605) ; 
“ Πρ Sapientia Veterum ”’ (1609) ; “Νο- 
vum Organum’”’ (1620); ‘‘ History of 
the Reign of Henry VII.” (1623); ‘* De 
Augmentis Scientiarum ’’ (1623); ‘* Ap- 
ophthegms”’ (1625) ; ‘* Sylva Sylvarum,”’ 
‘* New Atlantis,’ ‘‘ Historia Ventorum.”’ 
Posthumously published: ‘‘ Elements of 
the Law of England ”’ (1636) ; ‘* History 
of the Alienation Office.”’ Biographies: 
Mallet’s (1740) ; Birch’s (1763); Raw- 
ley’s (1825) ; Basil Montagu’s (1825) ; 
Macaulay’s ‘* Essays ’’ ; Kuno Fischer’s 
(translated 1557); Remusat’s ‘‘ Vie” 
(1857) ; Hepworth Dixon’s (1862); Dean 
Church’s (1879); and Th. Fowler’s. 
Best edition, with Letters and Life, 
Spedding’s (1870). ‘* Novum Organum,”’ 
with notes, edited by Fowler (1878). 


(1826); ‘* Decline of | 


1330 


Bain 


See Abbott’s ‘‘ Bacon and Essex,’’ 1877, 
and Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vol. xi. 

Bacon, Roger (Ὁ. Ilchester, 1214; 
ἃ. Oxford, June 11th, 1292). ‘* Specu- 
lum Alchemie’’ (1541); ‘‘ De Potestate 


| Artis et Natura’? (1442) ; Opus Majus”’ 


(1733); ** Opus Minus,’’ **Opus Ter- 
uum,” ete., in ‘*‘ Works’’ (Brewer, 1859). 
Biographies: Siebert's ‘* Leben ᾽ (1861) ; 
Charles’s ‘* Vie’? (1861). 


Bage, Robert (b. Darley, near 
Derby, February 29th, 1728 ; d. Septem- 
ber Ist, 1801. ‘‘ Mount Heneth ”’ 
(1781); _ *‘ Barham Downs” (1784) ; 
“The Fair Syrian’? (1787); ‘‘ James 
Wallace”? (1788); ‘‘Man as He Is”’ 
(1792) ; ‘‘Hermstrong: or, Man as He 
is Not’’ (1796). Biography in Sir W. 
Scott’s ‘‘ Novelist’s Library.” 

Bagehot, Walter (b. 1826, d. 1877). 
‘“‘The English Constitution ” (1867) ; 
‘Physics and Tolities; ’’? ‘* Lombard 
Street ’’ (1873) ; and ‘‘ Essays on Silver’’ 
(1877). ‘Literary Studies,’’ edited by 
Hutton, with ‘‘ Memoir ᾽ (1878) ; ‘‘ Eeo- 
nomic Studies’? (18830). Edited the 
Economist. 

Bailey, Philip James (b. Notting- 
ham, April 22nd, 1816). ‘‘ Festus ”’ 
(1839); ‘*The Angel World”? (1850) ; 
“The Mystic’? (1855); ‘‘The Age” 
(1858) ; ‘‘ The International Policy of the 
Great Powers’’ (1862) ; ‘‘ The Universal 
Hymn ”’ (1867). ; 

Bailey, Samuel (Ὁ. Sheffield, 1791; 
ἃ. there, January 18th, 1870). ‘‘ Value”’ 
(1825) ; ‘‘ Essays on the Philosophy of the 
Human Mind ”’ (1855, 1858, and 1863) ; 
ete. 

Baillie, Joanna (b. Bothwell, 1762; 
d. Hampstead, February 23rd, 1851). 
“Plays on the Passions’? (1798, 1802, 
1812, and 1836) ; ‘* Miscellaneous Plays” 
(1804) ; ‘The Family Legend ”’ (1810) ; 
“‘ Metrical Legends ”’ (1821); ‘‘ Fugitive 
Verses ’’ (1823) ; ‘‘ Metrical Legends of 
Exalted Characters,’’ and ‘‘A View of 
the General Tenor of the New Testa- 
ment regarding the Nature and Dignity 
of Jesus Christ.”? ‘‘ Works,’’ with a 
‘¢ Life ”’ (1853). 


Bain, Professor Alexander, LL.D. 
(Ὁ. Aberdeen, 1818). ‘‘ The Senses and the 
Intellect ’’ (1855) ; ‘‘ The Emotions and 
the Will”’ (1859) ; ‘‘ The Study of Char- 
acter’? (1861); ‘fA Manual of English 
Composition and Rhetoric’? (1866) ; 
‘*Mental and Moral Science ᾽ (1868) ; 
‘Logic’? (1870); “Α Higher English 
Grammar ᾽ (1872); ‘‘ Mind and Body ”’ 


Baker 


(1873); ‘‘Companion to the Higher 
English Grammar” (1874); ‘The 
Science of Education ” (1879); ‘‘ James 
Mill: A Biography” (1882); “John 
Stuart Mill: Criticism”? (1882) ; 
“Practical Essays”? (1884) ; ‘On Teach- 
ing English”? (1887) ; ete. Edited James 
Mill’s ‘* Analysis of the Human Mind”? 
(1869), Grote’s ““ Minor Works ’’ (1873), 
and Grote’s ‘‘ Plato ”’ (1885), 

Baker, Sir Richard (b. Sitting- 
hurst, Kent, about 1568; d. London, 
February 18th, 1644). *‘Chronicles of 
the Kings of England’ (164!) ; trans- 
lated ‘‘ Malvezzi’s Discourses on Tacitus” 
(1642) ; ‘‘ Theatrum Redivivum”’ (1661). 


Baker, Sir Samuel White (b. 1821, 
d. 1893). ‘‘The Rifle and Hound in 
Ceylon ”’ (1853); ‘‘ Right Years’ Wan- 
derings in Ceylon”? (1855) ; ‘The Albert 
N’Yanza”’ (1866); ‘*The Nile Tribu- 
taries of Abyssinia’ (1871) ; ‘‘ Ismailia ”’ 
(1874) ; ‘‘ True Tales for my Grandsons’’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘The Egyptian Question ” 
(1884) ; ‘* Wild Beasts and Their Ways” 
(1890). Memoir by T. Douglas Murray 
and A. Silya White (1895). 

Balfour, Right Hon. Arthur 
James, LL.D., F.R.S. (b. J uly 25th, 
1848). ‘A Defence of Philosophic 
Doubt’ (1879); ‘The Religion of 
Humanity ”’ (1888); ‘‘ Essays and Ad- 
dresses ’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ The Foundations of 
Belief ’’ (1895), 

Ballantine, James (Ὁ. 1808, d. 1877). 
“The Gaberlunzie’s Wallet’? (1843) ; 
““The Miller of Deanhaugh”? (1844) ; 
«Stained Glass’’ (1845) ; ‘‘ Ornamental 
Art”’ (1847) ; ““ Poems”? (1856) ; ‘‘Songs”’ 
(1865) ; ‘‘ Whistle Binkie’”’ (new edition, 
1878) ; ‘‘ Life of David Roberts’’ (1866) ; 
“* Lilias Lee’’ (1872). 

Bancroft, Thomas (b. circa 1600). 
“‘ The Glutton’s Fever” (1633) ; ‘‘ Epi- 
grams and Epitaphs’’ (1639); part of 
‘**Lachryme Musarum”’ (1650); ‘‘ The 
Heroical Lover’ (1658). 

Banks, Mrs. George Linnzus (Ὁ. 
1821). ‘*Ivy Leaves”? (1844); ‘*God’s 
Providence House ἡ (1864) ; ‘‘ Daisies in 
the Grass’? (1865); ‘Stung to the 
Quick ”’ (1867) ; ‘‘ The Manchester Man ”’ 
(1876); “Glory ” (1877); “Caleb 
Booth’s Clerk’’ (1878); ‘‘ Ripples and 
Breakers ’’ (1878); ‘‘ Wooers and Win- 
ners’? (1880); ““ Forbidden to Marry” 
(1883) ; ‘‘In His Own Hand’”’ (1885) ; 
“Glory”? (1892) ;.‘*A Rough Road” 
(1892); ‘* Bond Slaves’? (1893); ‘‘The 
Slowly Grinding Mills ”’ (1893) ; ‘* Bridge 
ot Beauty ”’ (1894), 


1331 


Baring-Gould 


Barbauld, Anna Letitia (b. Kib- 
worth Harcourt, Leicestershire, June 
20th, 1743; ἃ. March 9th, 1825). ‘ Mis- 
cellaneous Poems’ (1773); ‘ Miscel- 
laneous Pieces in Prose”? (with her 
brother, Dr. Aikin) (1773) ; “‘ Karly Les- 
sons for Children ”’ (1774) ; ‘‘ Hymns in 
Prose ”’ (1774); ‘‘ Devotional Pieces, Com- 
posed from the Psalms and the Book of 
Job” (1774) ; ‘* A Poetical Epistle to Mr. 
Wilberforce on the Rejection of the Bill 
for the Abolition of the Slave Trade” 
(1790) ; ‘‘ Remarks on Gilbert Wake- 
field’s Inquiry into the Expediency and 
Propriety of Public and Social Worship ”’ 
(1792) ; ‘* Evenings at Home”? (with Dr. 
Aikin) (1792-95); ‘Selections from 
the Spectator, Tatler, Guardian, and 
Freeholder’? (1804) ; ‘‘ A Life of Samuel 
Richardson ”’ (1805) ; an edition of ‘‘ The 
British Novelists ’’ (1810) ; ‘‘ The Female 
Spectator’ (1811) ; and ‘‘ Eighteen Hun- 
dred and Eleven”’ (1812). Works, with 
‘“Memoir”? by Lucy Aikin in 1827. 
“Letters and Notices’? by Breton ap- 
peared in 1874. 


Barham, Richard Harris (b. Can- 
terbury, 1788; d. London, June 17th, 
1845). ‘* My Cousin Nicholas ;”’ ‘‘ In- 
goldsby Legends”? (1840), part of 
‘*Gorton’s Biographical Dictionary.”’ 
Biography by his son (1870). 


Baring-Gould, Rev. Sabine (b. 
Exeter, 1834). ‘‘ The Path of the Just”? 
(1854) ; ““ Ireland: Its Scenes and Sagas”’ 
(1861); ‘* Post - Medieval Preachers”’ 
(1865) ; ‘‘ Curious Myths of the Middle 
Ages” (1866-67); ‘“‘ The Silver Store” 
(1868) ; ‘*‘ The Book of Were-Wolves’”’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ Curiosities of the Olden Time ᾽" 
(1869) ; ‘The Origin and Development of 
Religious Belief ’’ (1870) ; ‘‘ The Golden 
Gate ’’ (1870); ‘‘The Lives of the Saints ’’ 
(1872); ‘‘ Difficulties of the Faith” 
(1874) ; ‘* The Lost and Hostile Gospels ’’ 
(1874) ; ‘‘ Yorkshire Oddities’? (1874) 
‘‘Some Modern Difficulties’? (1875) - 
“Life of the Rey. R. 5. Hawker ”’ (1876) , 
“The Mystery of Sufferine’’ (1877) ; 
“Germany, Past and Present”? (1879) ; 
“The Passion of Christ’? (1885); ‘‘ Our 
Parish Church”’ (1885); ‘‘The Birth of 
Jesus’? (1885) ; ‘‘ Nazareth and Caper- 
naum’’ (1886); ‘‘Germany’’ (1886) ; 
“The Way of Sorrows”’ (1887); ‘‘The 
Death and Resurrection of Jesus ”’ (1888); 
“Our Inheritance’’ (1888); ‘‘ Historic 
Oddities’ (1889) ; ‘‘Old Country Life’’ 
(1890) ; “Τὰ Troubadour Land ᾽ (1890) ; 
““Conscience and Sin” (1890); ‘*‘The 
Church in Germany’ (1891); ‘The 
Tragedy of the Cesars”’ (1892); ‘‘Strange 


Barker 


1332 


Survivals’’ (1892); ‘*The Icelander’s 
Sword”? (1898). In addition to the 
above works he has written the follow- 
ing novels: ‘‘ Mehalah”’ (1880); ‘* John 
Herring’’ (1883);  ‘‘Court Royal” 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Red’ Spider’? (1887); ‘* The 
Gaverocks’’ (1887); ‘Eve’? (1888) ; 
‘“‘Grettir the Outlaw” (1889); ‘The 
Pennycomequicks ᾽᾽ (1889) ; ‘‘ My Prague 
Pig’? (1890); ‘‘Arminell’”? (1890) ; 
‘‘Urith’’ (1891); ‘‘ Margery of Quether ”’ 
(1891); ‘*Through all the Changing 
Scenes of Life’? (1892) ; “Τὴ the Roar 
of the Sea ’’ (1892) ; ‘* Cheap Jack Zita ”’ 
(1893) ; ‘* The Queen of Love”’ (1894) ; 
“* Kitty Alone ’’ (1894). 


Barker, Edmund H. (b. Hollym, 
Yorkshire, December 22nd, 1788; ἃ. 
London, March 21st, 1899). ‘‘ Classical 
Recreations ’’ (1812) ; ‘‘Aristarchus Anti- 
Blomfieldianus ’’ (1820); ‘‘ Parriana”’ 
(1828-29). Edited Stephen’s ‘‘ Thesau- 
rus”? (1816-28). 

Barlow, Miss Jane (b. Clontarf, 
County Dublin). ‘‘ Irish Idylls”’ (1892) ; 
“‘The Mockers of the Shallow Waters ”’ 
(1893); ‘‘ Kerrigan’s Quality’ (1894) ; 
“ Maureen’s Fairing, etc.’’ (1895). 


Barnes, Rev. William (b. Bagber, 
Dorsetshire, 1810; d. 1886). ‘‘ Poems 
of Rural Life in Dorset Dialect ’’ (1844) ; 
“ An . Anglo-Saxon Delectus’’ (1849) ; 
“*Philological Grammar’? (1854) ; ‘‘ Notes 
on Ancient Britain’? (1858); ‘‘ Early 
England”? (1859); ‘‘ Views of Labour 
and Gold’? (1859); ‘‘ Rural Poems in 
Common English’’ (1862); ‘‘ Tiw, or 
a View of the Roots and Stems of 
English ”’ (1862) ; ““ Grammar and Glos- 
sary of the Dorset Dialect ’’ (1864). 


Barnfield, Richard (Ὁ. 1574). ‘‘The 
Affectionate Shepherd, containing the 
Complaint of Daphnis for the Love 
of Ganymede”’ (1524) ; ‘*Cynthia, with 
Certaine Sonnets,’’ and the ‘‘ Legend of 
Cassandra ’’ (1595); ‘* The Encomion of 
Lady Pecunia; or, the Praise of Money”’ 
(1598); and ‘*Poems,’’ reprinted by 
James Boswell, and including ‘‘ Remarks 
by the late Edmund Malone”’ (1816). 
Sce Warton’s ‘‘ English Poetry,’’ and 
Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vol. x. 


Barr, Mrs. Amelia Edith, xé 
Huddleston (b. Ulverston, March 29th, 
1831). _ ‘* Cluny Macpherson”’ (1884) ; 
““™he Hallam Succession ”’ (1885) ; “‘ Jan 
Vedder’s Wife’? (1885); ‘‘The Lost 
Silver of Briffault’’ (1886); ‘‘The Bow 
of Orange Ribbon” (1886); ‘* Between 
Two Loves”? (1886); “Α Daughter of 
Fite ”’ (1886) ; “ΑΔ Border Shepherdess ”’ 


(1887); ‘* Paul and Christina’’ (1887) ; 
‘The Squire of Sandal-side”’ 888 ; 


“ΠῊΡ Household of McNeil’’ (1888) ; 
““Remember the Alamo’’ (1888); ‘‘ In 
Spite of Himself’? (1888); ‘‘Feet of 
Clay ” (1889) ; ‘* Woven of Love and 
Glory ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Friend Olivia ’’ (1890) ; 
“Last of the Macallisters’’ (1890) ; 
“Scottish Sketches’? (1890); ‘‘She 
Loved a Sailor’? (1892); “Α Sister to 
Esau’’ (1892); ‘‘Love for an Hour is 
Love for Ever’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ The Preacher’s 
Daughter ᾽ (1892) ; ‘* A Singer from the 
Sea’? (1893); ‘Beads of Tasmer’’ 
(1893) ; ‘* A Rose of a Hundred Leaves” 
(1893) ; “ΒΘ Lone House ”’ (1894) ; ete. 


Barr, Robert, ‘Luke Sharp.” 
“‘In a Steamer Chair, etc.’’ (1892) ; 
‘“‘From Whose Bourne, ete.’ (1893); 
“The Face and the Mask’ (1894); 
“In the Midst of Alarms’’ (1894). 
Has edited the /dler. 


Barrie, James Matthew (b. Kirrie- 
muir, May 9th, 1860). ““ Better Dead”’ 
(1887); ‘‘ Auld Licht Idylls’’ (1888) ; 
““When a Man’s Single’? (1888); ‘A 
Window in Thrums” (1889); ‘An 
Edinburgh Eleven” (1889) ; ‘‘ My Lady 
Nicotine’? (1890); ‘*The Little Minis- 
ter’? (1891). 


Barrow, Isaac, D.D. (b. London, Oc- 
tober, 1630; d. London, May 4th, 1677). 
“ Euclidis Elementa”’ (1655) ; ‘‘ Lectiones 
Optice”’ (1669); “ Lectiones Geome- 
trice ’’ (1670); ‘‘ Euclidis Data ’’ (1675) ; 
““ Archimedis Opera’? (1675); ‘‘ Theo- 
dosii Opera *’ (1675) ; ‘‘ Lectio de Sphera 
et Cylindro” (1678); ‘‘Opuscula La- 
tina’’ (1687); ‘‘Lectiones Mathematice”’ 
(1783). Theological works first published 
by Tillotson (1683); best edition, 1818. 
Best edition of mathematical works, 
1861. ‘Selected Writings’? (1866). 
See Hill’s ‘‘ Life.”’ 

Barry, Right Rev. Alfred, D.D., 
D.C.L. (Ὁ. 1826). ‘Introduction to 
Old Testament’? (1856); ‘‘ Life of Sir 
C. Barry, R.A.’ (1867) ; ‘‘Sermons for 
Boys” (1868) ; The Boyle Lectures for 
1876, ‘‘What is Natural Theology ἢ 
(1877); ‘*Sermons Preached at West- 
minster Abbey ᾽ (1884) ; ‘‘ First Words 
in Australia’’ (1884); ‘‘ Parables of the 
Old Testament’’ (1889); ‘‘ Lectures on 
Christianity and Socialism’? (1890) ; 
“Some Lights of Science on the Faith ”’ 
(1892). 

Barton, Bernard (b. London, Jan- 
uary 31st, 1784; d. February 19th, 1849). 
“Metrical Effusions’’ (1812); ‘* Poems 


| by an Amateur” (1818); ‘‘ Poems”? 


Bastian 


(1820) ; ‘* Napoleon and Other Poems”? 
(1822); ‘“The Reliquary’’ (1836) ; ‘“House- 
hold Verses ’’ (1845) ; ‘‘ Selected Poems ”’ 
(1849). Gurney’s ‘‘ Memoir” (1847). 
‘Poems and Letters,’’ with his daugh- 
ter’s Memoir (1853). 


Bastian, Henry Charlton, M.D. 
(Ὁ. Truro, April 26th, 1837). ‘* Modes 
of Origin of Lowest Organisms’? (1871) ; 
“‘The Beginnings of Life’ (1872); 
“Evolution and the Origin of Life’’ 
(1874) ; ‘‘ Clinical Lectures on Paralysis 
from Brain Disease’? (1875); ‘‘'The 
Brain as an Organ of Mind’’ (1880) ; 
‘““Paralyses Cerebral, Bulbar, and 
Spinal’? (1886); ‘* Various Forms of 
Hysterical or Functional Paralysis’’ 
(1893), ete. 


Baxter, Richard (b. Rowton, 
Shropshire, November 12th, 1615; ἃ. 
London, December 8th, 1691). ‘‘Aphor- 
isms of Justification’? (1649); ‘‘The 
Saint’s Everlasting Rest ’’ (1649) ; ‘‘Con- 
fessions of Faith ’’ (1655) ; ‘* Gildas Silvi- 
anus; or, the Reformed Pastor ’’ (1656) ; 
“Call to the Unconverted”’ (1657) ; ‘* Uni- 
versal Concord’’ (1658) ; ‘‘The Reformed 
Liturgy ’’ (1661); ‘‘Now or Never”’ 
(1663) ; ‘* Reasons for the Christian Re- 
ligion”’? (1667); ‘‘A Life of Faith”’ 
(1670) ; “Α Christian Directory ᾽᾽ (1673) ; 
“The Poor Man’s Family Book”’ 
(1674) ; ‘‘ Catholic Theology’’ (1675) ; 
“Church History of Government of 
Bishops ’’ (1680) ; ‘‘ Poetical Fragments”’ 
(1681) ; ‘‘ Kpiscopacy ’’ (1681); ‘‘ Life of 
Mrs. Baxter ’’ (1681) ; ‘‘ Methodus Theo- 
logiz Christiane ’’ (1681) ; ‘‘ Paraphrase 
of the New Testament ”’ (1685) ; ‘‘ Cer- 
tainty of the World of Spirits ’’ (1691). 
“‘Universal Redemption ”’ (1694). Bio- 
graphies : ‘‘ Sylvester’s ‘‘ Reliquie Bax- 
terianz ’’ (1696) ; ‘‘ Abridgment of Bax- 
ter’s History of his Life and Times”’ 
(1713); Life prefixed to Orme’s edition 
of Baxter’s works (1830), and Life 
(1865). 

Bayly, Thomas Haynes (b. 1797; 
d. 1836). Thirty-six dramatic pieces, 
and ‘‘ Kindness in Women’? (1837) ; 
‘‘ Parliamentary Letters,’’? ‘‘ Weeds of 
Kitchery ” (1837), etc. ‘‘ Poetical 
Works”’ with Memoir (1844). 


Bayne, Peter, LL.D. (b. Fodderty, 
1830). ‘*The Christian Life’? (1855) ; 
“‘Hssays in Biographical Criticism ”’ 
(1857-58); ‘‘Testimony of Christ to 
Christianity ’’ (1862) : ‘‘The Church’s 
Curse and Nation’s Claim’”’ (1868) ; ‘‘ Life 
of Hugh Miller’? (1870); ‘ Days 
of Jezebel’’ (1872); ‘‘ The Chief 


1333 


Beatimont 


Actors in the Puritan Revolution” 
(1878) ; ‘‘Lessons from my Master”? 
(1879); ‘Two Great Englishwomen”’ 
(1880); ‘* Martin Luther ’’ (1887) ; 
‘Six Christian Biographies’? (1887) ; 
‘* The Free Church of Scotland ’’ (1894). 
Edited Glasgow Commonwealth, Edin- 
burgh Witness, the Dial, the Weekly 
Review. 

Baynes, Thomas Spencer, LL.D. 
(b. Wellington, Somersetshire, March 
24th, 1823; ἃ. May 29th, 1887). ‘‘New 
Analytic of Logical Forms”? (1850) ; ‘Port 
Royal Logic”? (1851). One of the editors 
of the ““ Encyclopedia Britannica.”’ 


Beale, Professor Lionel Smith, - 
M.D. (Ὁ. London, 1828). ‘Life 
Theories’’ (1871); “ὍΘ Mystery of 
Life’”’ (1871); ‘‘Our Morality and the 
Moral Question’? (1887); ‘‘ Lectures 
on the Principles and Practice of Medi- 
cine’’ (1889), ete. Edited Archives of 
Medicine. 

Beattie, James (b, Laurencekirk, 
Kincardineshire, October 25th, 1735; d. 
August 18th, 1803). ‘‘ Poems and Trans- 
lations’? (1760); ‘‘Judgment of Paris’’ 
(1765) ; ‘* Essay on Truth”? (1770) ; ‘The 
Minstrel”? (1771 and 1774); ‘Essays”’ 
(1776) ; ‘‘ Dissertations’’ (1783) ; ‘‘ Hivi- 
dences of Christianity’’ (1786) ; ‘‘ Ele- 
ments of Moral Science’? (1790-93). 
Works, with Forbes’s Life (1806). 


Beaumont and Fletcher (Francis 
Beaumont, b. Grace Dieu, 1586, 4. 
1616; John Fletcher, b. 1576, d. 1625) 
together wrote ‘‘The Woman Hater’’ 
(1607); ““ Cupid’s Revenge ”’ (1615) ; 
“The Scornful Lady” (1616); ‘‘A 
King and No King” (1619); ‘The 
Maid’s Tragedy ”’ (1619); ‘* Philaster ἢ 
(1620); ‘‘ Monsieur Thomas’ (1639) ; 
“Wit Without Money” (1639) ; ‘‘The 
Coronation ”’ (1640), Works (1660) ; best 
edition, 1845. Beaumont himself wrote 
“*Paraphrase of Ovid’s ‘Salmacis and 
Hermaphroditus’’’ (1602) ; “Α Masque’’ 
(1613) ; ‘‘ Poems’’ (1640); and another 
set of Poems (1653). See Campbell’s 
‘Specimens ;’’ Hallam’s ‘‘ Literature ;’’ 
Collier’s ‘‘ Dramatic Poetry ;’’ Lamb’s 
“Specimens ;’’ Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Age of Eliza- 
beth;”’? Leigh Hunt’s ‘ Imagination 
and Fancy,”’ and ‘‘ Selections ; ’? Macau- 
lay’s ‘‘Hssays;’’ Ward’s ‘* Dramatic 
Literature ;’’ and Minto’s ‘‘ Character- 
istics of English Poets.’’? For recent 
critical opinion as to the authorship of 
the various works, see Professor Hall 
Griffin’s Bibliography in Morley’s ‘‘ Eng- 
lish Writers,’’ vol, x1. 


Beche 


Beche, Sir Henry T. de la (b. 
London, February 10th, 1796; d. April 
13th, 1855). ‘‘ Discovery of a New Fossil 
Animal ”’ (1823) ; ‘‘ Geology of Jamaica”’ 
(1826) ; ‘‘ Classification of European 
Rocks ”’ (1828) ; ‘‘ Geological Manual’”’ 
(1831) ; ‘‘ Theoretical Geology ”’ (1834) ; 
“Geology of Cornwall, Devon, and 
West Somerset’? (1839); ‘‘ Geological 
Observer ’”’ (1851). 

Beckford, William (b. 1760; d. 
Bath, May 2nd, 1844). ‘‘ Memoirs of Ex- 
traordinary Painters ”’ (1780); ‘‘ Dreams, 
Incidents, etc.’? (1783); ‘* Vathek”’ 
(English 1784, French 1787); ‘‘ Italy ”’ 
(1834) ; ‘‘ Recollections of an Excursion 
to the Monasteries of Alcobaca and 
Batalha’’ (1835). See Redding’s “ Fifty 
Years’ Recollections.”’ 

Beddoes, Thomas, M.D. (b. Shif- 
nall, Shropshire, 1760; d. 1808). ‘‘ Trans- 
lation of Spallanzani’s ‘ Dissertation on 
Natural History ’’’ (1784); ‘* Translation 
of Bergman’s ‘ Elective Attractions’ ”’ 
(1785); ‘* Chemical Experiments ”’ 
(1790); ‘‘Alexander’s Expedition to 
the Indian Ocean”’ (1792); ‘‘Observa- 
tions on Demonstrative Evidence ”’ 
(1792) ; ‘‘ Cure of Calculus, οἷο." (1792) ; 
‘* History of Isaac Jenkins”’ (1793) ; 
“«Α Word in Defence of Bill of Rights 
against Gagging Bills ’’ (1795) ; *‘ Public 
Merits of Mr. Pitt’’ (1796); ‘‘Con- 
tributions to Medical Knowledge from 
the West of England’? (1799); ‘‘On 
Consumption”’ (1799); ‘‘ Hygeia”’ (1801- 
2); ‘On Fever” (1807); ‘‘ Advice 
to Husbandmen in Harvest’? (1808). 
Edited Cullen’s ‘‘ Translation of Berg- 
man’s Physical Essays.’’ 


Beddoes, Thomas Lovell (b. Clif- 
ton, July 20th, 1803; d. Basle, January 
26th, 1849). ‘*The Improvisatore’’ 
(1821) ; ‘‘ The Bride’s Tragedy ᾽ (1822) ; 
‘‘Death’s Jest Book; or, the Fool’s 
Tragedy ’’ (1850); ‘‘Poems’’ (1851), 
with ‘‘ Memoir.”’ 

Bede (Ὁ. 672; ἃ. 735), ‘‘ The Vener- 
able.’’? List of works in Wright’s ‘‘ Bio- 
graphia Literaria Britannica’? and in 
Allibone’s ‘‘ Dictionary of English and 
American Authors.’? Complete edition 
in 1610. Dr. Giles, in 1843, published 
original Latin, with a new English 
translation of the Historical Works and 
a Life of the author. For Biography, 
see also his own “‘ Ecclesiastical History ᾽ἢ 
and the accounts by Simon of Durham, 
William of Malmesbury, Baronius, Ma- 
billon, Stevenson, and Gehle (1838), the 
“Dictionary of National Biography,’’ 
and Morley’s ‘‘English Writers,”’ vol. ii. 


1334 


Bennett 


Bede, Cuthbert. (See ΒΠΑΡΙΕΥ, 
Rev. EpWArp.) 


Beesly, Professor Edward 
Spencer (b. Feckenham, Worcester- 
shire, 1831). ‘‘ Catiline, Clodius, and 
Tiberius ’’ (1878); ‘‘ Queen Elizabeth ”’ 
(1888). Translated Comte, ete. 


Behn, Aphra (b. Canterbury, 1642 ; 
ἃ. London, April 16th, 1689). ‘‘The 
Forced Marriage ’’ (1671) ; ‘‘'The Amor- 
ous Prince’”’ (1671); ‘‘The Dutch 
Lover’”’ (1673); ‘‘Adelazar’’ (1677); 
“The Town Fop’’ (1677); ‘‘The 
Rover’? (1677); “ΒΘ Debauchee” 
(1677); ‘‘Sir Patient Fancy” (1678) ; 
“The Feigned Courtesaus” (1679); 
“The Rover’? (part ii. 1681); ‘The 
City Heiress’? (1682); ‘The False 
Count”’ (1682); ‘‘The Roundheads” 
(1682); “ΤΠ Young King” (1683); 
“* Poems”? (1684) ; ‘* Miscellany ᾽" (1685) ; 
“The Lover’s Watch’ (1686); ‘* The 
Lucky Chance’’ (1687); ‘‘ The Emperor 
of the Moon”’ (1687); ‘‘ Lycidus’’ (1688) ; 
‘The Widow Ranter’”’ (1690); ‘‘ The 
Younger Brother’? (1696); Histories 
and Novels (1698, eighth edition with 
Life, 1735). Works (1871). See Ward’s 
“Dramatic Literature;’? Kavanagh’s 
“Women of Letters;”’ Jeaffreson’s 
“Novelists ;’? Forsyth’s ‘‘ Novelists,”’ 
ete. 


Beke, Charles Tilstone (bh. London, 
October 10th, 1800; ἃ. July 31st, 1874). 
‘‘Origines Biblice ’’ (1834); ‘‘ Nile and 
its Tributaries ’’ (1847) ; ‘‘ Sources of the 
Nile’’ (1848); ‘‘ Mémoire Justificatif 
des Péres Paez et Lobo”’ (Paris, 1848) ; 
“‘The British Captives in Abyssinia” 
(1867). 


Bell, Henry Thomas Mackenzie 
(Ὁ. Liverpool, March 2nd, 1856). ‘‘ The 
Keeping of the Vow and Other Verses ”’ 
(1879) ; ‘* Verses of Varied Life ’’ (1882) ; 
“ΟἹ Year Leaves’’ (1883); ‘fA For- 
gotten Genius: Charles Whitehead ”’ 
(1884) : ‘*Spring’s Immortality and 
Other Poems”’ (1893). 


Bell, Mrs. Hugh (Florence) (b. 
Paris). ‘‘ Will o’ the Wisp” (1890); 
‘‘Chamber Comedies ”’ (1890); ‘‘ Nursery 
Comedies’? (1892); ‘‘The Story of 
Ursula’? (1895); French Plays for 
Children, etc. 


Bennett, William Cox, LL.D. (b. 
Greenwich, October 14th, 1820; ἃ. 
March 4th, 1895). ‘* Poems”’ (1850) ; 
‘‘Verdicts’’ (1852); ‘‘War Songs ”’ 
(1855); ‘Collected Poems’? (1862); 
** Songs for Sailors’ (1873), etc. 


Bentham 


1335 


Bickerstaff 


_ (SS ae 


Benitlain, Jeremy (Ὁ. London, Feb- 
ruary 15th, 1748; ἃ. 1832). ““ Fragment 
on Government”? (1776); ‘‘The Hard 
Labour Bill” (1778); ‘‘ Principles of 
Morals and Legislation ’’ (1780) ; ‘‘ Use- 
fulness of Chemistry ’’ (1783) ; ‘‘ Defence 
of Usury” (1787) ; ‘ Panopticon”? (1791); 


‘Draft of a Code for Judicial Establish- | 


ment in France” (1791); ‘ Political 
Tactics’? (1791); ‘‘Emancipate your 
Colonies” (1793) ; ‘‘ Supply without Bur- 
den”? (1796); ‘‘ Pauper Management”’ 
(1797) ; ““ Traités de Législation Civile et 
Penale’’ (1802) ; ‘‘ Two Letters to Lord 
Pelham’”’ (1802) ; ‘‘ Plea for the Con- 
stitution’? (1803); ‘* Scotch Reforms ”’ 
(1808); ‘‘ Chrestemathia”’ (1816-17) ; 
“Parliamentary Reform Catechism” 
(1817); ‘‘ Codification and Public In- 
struction” (1817); ‘‘Swear Not at All” 
(1817); ‘Springs of Action”? (1817) ; 
“Church of Englandism’’ (1818) ; 
“ Radical Reform Bill” (1819); ‘‘ The 
King against Sir C. Wolseley ’’ (1820) ; 
“The King against Edmonds”? (1820) ; 
‘Restrictive and Prohibitory Commer- 
cial System” (1821) ; ‘ Art of Packing 
Special Juries” (1821) ; ‘‘ Tracts Rela- 
tive to Spanish and Portuguese Affairs” 
(1821) ; “‘ Liberty of the Press”’ (1821) ; 
“ Letter to Count Toreno”’ (1822); ‘‘ Not 
Paul, but Jesus” (1823) ; “ Truth versus 
Ashurst”’ (1823) ; ‘‘ Book of Fallacies” 
(1824) ; ‘ Peel’s Magistrates’ Salary 
Bill’? (1824); ‘‘Mother Church Re- 
lieved by Bleeding ”’ (1825) ; “ Rationale 
of Reward” (1825); ‘‘ Indications Re- 
specting Lord Elgin’? (1825, Postscript 
1826) ; ‘Rationale of Judicial Evidence a? 
(1827) ; ‘‘ Codification Proposal ”’ (1871). 
Biography in Bowring and Burton’s 
edition of Works (1843). See Burton’s 
“‘Benthamiana”’ (1838). 


Bentley, Richard, D.D. (b. Oulton, 
Wakefield, January 27th, 1662; ἃ. July 
14th, 1142). ‘‘ Dissertation on the 
Epistles of Phalaris”’ (1099) ; ‘* Dis- 
cursus on Latin Metres” (1726) ; ‘‘ Re- 
marks on a Late Discourse on Freethink- 
ing ’’ (1743) ; ‘‘Sermons’”’ (1809). Edited 
numerous Classics. Biography by Monk 
(1830) and by Jebb_ (184. ** Corre- 
spondence”? (1842). Works (1856). See 
De Quincey’s Essay. 


Berkeley, George, Bishop of Cloyne 
(Ὁ. Kilerin, Kilkenny, March 12th, 1684 ; 
ἃ. Oxford, January 14th, 1754). ‘An 
Attempt to Demonstrate Arithmetic 
without Algebra and Geometry” (1707); 
“‘ New Theory of Vision’? (1709) ; “ Prin- 
ciples of Human Knowledge’’ (1710) ; 
“Three Dialogues ”’ (1713) ; “‘ Principle 


- 


of Motion” (1721); ‘‘ Alciphron”’ (1792); 
‘‘ Siris”’ (1747). Biographies by Prior 
(1784) ; Wright (1843), and Fraser, with 
ἐς Commonplace Book,” in complete 
Works (1871). 


Besant, Mrs. Annie (b. London, 
October Ist, 1847). ‘‘ Through Storm to 
Peace,”’? Autobiography (1893), ete. 


Besant, Sir Walter (b. Portsmouth, 
1838). ‘Studies in Karly French 
Poetry”? (1868); with Professor Pal- 
mer, ἐς Jerusalem’? (1871). ‘The Golden 
Butterfly? (1811); ‘‘ Ready - Money 
Mortiboy’’ (1872) ; ‘The French Humor- 
ists’? (1873); ‘The Monks of The- 
lema’’ (1878); “ΒΥ Celia’s Arbour 2 
(1878) ; “‘’Twas in Trafalgar’s Bay ”’ 
(1879) ; ‘‘ The Seamy Side ”’ (1880); ‘‘‘The 
Ten Years’ Tenant’? (1881); ‘The 
Chaplain of the Fleet” (1881). The 
above novels were written in conjunc- 
tion with James Rice. Sir Walter has 
written alone, ‘‘The Revolt of Man’”’ 
(1882); ‘* All Sorts and Conditions of 
Men ” (1882); ‘‘ The Captain’s Room”’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ Life of E. H. Palmer ᾽᾽ (1883) ; 
ἐς All ina Garden Fair” (1883) ; ‘‘ Read- 
ings in Rabelais” (1883); * Dorothy 
Forster’ (1884) ; ‘The Art of Fiction ὦ 
(1884); ‘Uncle 940Κ᾽’ (1885) ; * Chil- 
dren of Gibeon’”’ (1886); “Ὑπὸ World 
Went Very Well Then”? (1887) ; “‘ Herr 
Paulus” (1888); “Fifty Years Ago”’ 
(1888); ‘The Eulogy of Richard Jef- 
feries”? (1888) ; ‘‘For Faith and Free- 
dom’? (1889) ; “‘ The Bell of St. Paul’s”’ 
(1889) : ‘‘ Captain Cook ”” (a biography) 
(1889); “Τὸ Call Her Mine’ (1889) ; 
ὃς Armorel of Lyonesse’’ (1890) ; ‘The 
Holy Rose ”’ (1890); ‘‘St. Katherine’s by 
the Tower ” (1891) ; ‘‘ The Ivory Gate ἢ 
(1892); ““Τοπάοῃ ”’ (1892); ‘The His- 
tory of London”’ (1893) ; ‘The Rebel 
Queen’? (1893); ‘‘ Beyond the Dreams 
of Avarice’’ (1895). 


Betham-Edwards, Miss Matilda 
Barbara (Ὁ. Westerfield, Suffolk, 1836). 
“John and 1” (1862); ‘‘Dr. Jacob” 
(1864) ; ‘Kitty ” (1869) ; ‘‘ The Sylves- 
tres”? (1871); ‘‘A Year in Western - 
France’? (1876); ‘‘ Bridget UST) 5 
ἐς Disarmed ” (1883) ; ‘‘Pearla”’ (1883) ; 
« Loveand Mirage”? (1884) ; “ὙΠΟ Part- 
ing of the Ways” (1888) ; “The Root 
of France’? (1889) ; “‘ France of To-day Ἢ 
(1892) ; “Α Romance of Dijon”? (1894) ; 
ἐς Brother Gabriel’ (1895) ; etc. 


Bickerstaff, Isaac (Ὁ. Ireland, 1735; 
ἃ. circa 1800). ‘Love in a Village” 
(1762) ; “Μαῖα of the Mill” (1105) - 


Birrell 


1336 


Blind 


‘Lionel and Clarissa ’”’ and 


many other plays. 


Birrell, Augustine (b. Wavertree, 
January 19th, 1850). ‘ Obiter Dicta”’ 
(1884 and 1887); ‘Life of Charlotte 
Bronté ’’ (1887). 


Black, William (b. Glasgow, 1841). 
‘“*Love or Marriage’’ (1867); ‘ In Silk 
Attire’’ . (1869); ‘* Kilmeny’’ (1870) ; 
“The Monarch of Mincing Lane ”’ 
(1871) ; “Α Daughter of Heth’? (1871); 
“ The Strange Adventures of a Phaeton ”’ 
(1872) ; “Α Princess of Thule” (1873) ; 
“The Maid of Killeena’”’ (1874) ; ‘*Three 
Feathers’? (1875); ‘‘ Madcap Violet”’ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ Lady Silverdale’s Sweetheart ”’ 
(1876); ‘*Green Pastures and Picca- 
dilly’? (1877); ‘‘Macleod of Dare”’ 
(1878); ‘‘ White Wings’? and ‘Sun- 
rise ’’ (1880) ; ‘* That Beautiful Wretch”’ 
(1881) ; ‘Shandon Bells ’’ (1883) ; ** Yo- 
lande’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Judith Shakespeare ἢ 
(1884) ; ‘‘ White Heather ”’ (1885) ; ‘* The 
Wise Woman of Inverness, ete.’’ (1885) ; 
“‘Sabina Zembra”’ (1887); ‘‘ The Strange 
Adventures of a House Boat’’ (1888) ; 
“The Penance of John Logan,’’ ete. 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Nanciebel ᾽ (1889) ; ** The New 
Prince Fortunatus’’ (1890); ‘* Donald 
Ross of Heimra’”’ (1891) ; “ Stand Fast, 
Craig-Royston’’ (1891); ‘*The Magic 
Ink and Other Tales ’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ Wolfen- 
berg ’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ The Handsome Humes ἢ 
(1893) ; ‘* Highland Cousins ’’ (1894). 


Blackburn, Henry (b. 1830). 
“Travelling in Spain’? (1866); ‘* The 
Pyrenees ’’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Artists and Arabs ”’ 

1868) ; ““ Breton Folk’’ (1880) ; ““ Ran- 

olph Caldecott: A Personal Memoir of 
his Early Art Career ’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Artistic 
Travels in Normandy, Brittany, the 
Pyrenees, Spain, and Algeria’ (1892) ; 
‘““The Art of Illustration ’’ (1894) ; 
“ Academy Notes’’ every year, 


Blackie, John Stuart (b. Glasgow, 
1809; ἃ. March 2nd, 1892). ‘* Pronun- 
ciation of Greek’? (1852); ‘‘ Lays and 
Legends of Ancient Greece’’ (1857); 
‘*'Three Discourses on Beauty ’’ (1858) ; 
** Lyrical Poems”’ (1860); ““ Homer and 
the Iliad ”’ (1866); “" Democracy’? (1867); 
‘Musa Burschicosa’’ (1869); ‘*‘ War 
Songs of the Germans” (1870) ; ‘‘ Four 
Phases of Morals’? (1871); ‘‘ Lays of 
the Highlands and Islands’ (1872); 
“Self-Culture’’ (1873); ‘‘ Hore Hel- 
lenice *’ (1874) ; ‘* Songs ’’ (1876); ‘The 
Wise Men οὗ Greece’? (1877); ‘‘The 
Natural History of Atheism’ (1877) ; 
“ Self-Culture ᾿" (1877); ‘‘Lay Ser- 
mons’ (1881); ‘ Altavona ᾽ (1882) ; 


(1768) ; 


‘““The Wisdom of Goethe’? (1883) ; 
‘* Life of Robert Burns ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Seot- 
tish Song ’’ (1889) ; “Α Song of Hersea” 
(1890) ; ** Essays on Subjects of Moral 
and Social Interest’? (1890); ‘‘ Chris¢- 
ianity and the Ideal of Humanity in Old 
Times and New” (1893). ‘Translated 
‘* Faust ᾽᾽ (1834) ; ‘‘ ASschylus”’ (1850). 


Blackmore, Richard Doddridge 
(Ὁ. Longworth, Berkshire, 1825). ‘ The 
Fate of Franklin’ (1860); ‘‘ The Farm 
and Fruit of Old” (part of the Georgics, 
1862); “Clara Vaughan” (1864) ; 
‘*Cradock Nowell’? (1866); ‘* Lorna 
Doone” (1869) ; ‘* The Maid of ὅκου" 
(1872) ; ‘* Alice Lorraine’ (1875) ; 
‘* Cripps the Carrier”? (1876) ; ‘* Erema” 
(1877) ; ** Mary Anerly ”’ (1880) ; ‘* Chris- 
towel’? (1881); ‘*'Tommy Upmore”’ 
(1882) ; ‘*Springhaven ᾽ (1887); “ Kit 
and Kitty” (1889);  ‘* Perlycross”’ 
(1894) ; ** Fringilla’’ (1895), ete. Trans- 
lation of the Georgics (1871). 


Blackstone, Sir William, LL.D. (b. 
London, July 10th, 1723; ἃ. February 
14th, 1780). ‘‘Great Charter’? (1759) ; 
“Commentaries on the Laws of Eng- 
land’? (1765); ““ Tracts’ (1771); ‘ Re- 
ports of Cases”? (1781). “‘ Life ’”’ (1782). 


Blake, William (b. London, 1757 ; 
ἃ. August 12th, 1828), « Poetical 
Sketches”? (1783); ‘‘Songs of Inno- 
cence’? (1789) ; ‘* Book of Thiel ᾽᾽ (1789) ; 
“* America’? (1793); ‘‘Songs of Ex- 
perience ’’ (1798) ; " Gates of Paradise ἢ 
(1793); “ Vision of the Daughters of 
Albion’”’ (1793); ‘* Kurope”’ (1794) ; 
“Book of Ahania’”’ (1795); ‘‘ Urizen”’ 
(1800) ; “‘ Jerusalem ”’ (1804) ; ‘‘ Milton ”’ 
(1804). Biographies: Gilchrist’s (1863, 
enlarged 1881); Rossetti’s in “ἢ B.’s 
Poems *’ (1866) ; Swinburne’s ‘‘ Essay ”’ 
(1868). 


Blakey, Robert (Ὁ. 1795, ἃ. 1878). 
“History of Moral Science’? (1833) ; 
“The History of the Philosophy of 
Mind” (1848); ‘‘ History of Political 
Literature’’ (1855). Also wrote several 
works on Angling, among them ‘‘ The 
Rivers of England and Wales.’’ 

Blessington, Countess of (Ὁ. near 
Clonmel, September Ist, 1789; d. Paris, 
June 4th, 1849). ‘‘The Idler in Italy,”’ 
“Country Quarters,” ‘‘ Conversations 
with Byron,” etc. ‘‘Life,”? by Mad- 
den (1855). 


Blind, Miss Mathilde (b. March 
21st, 1847). ‘‘ Tarantella’? (1884); 
“‘ The Heather on Fire ’’ (1886) ; ‘* Mad- 
ame Roland ᾽ (1886) ; ‘‘ George Eliot ᾽ἢ 


Blomfield 


(1888) ; ‘‘ The Ascent of Man ”’ (1885) ; 
“‘ Dramas in Miniature”? (1891) ; ‘Songs 
and Sonnets’’ (1893); ‘‘ Birds of Pas- 
sage’’ (1895). Has edited the works of 
Shelley and Byron, and translated the 
“* Journal ’’ of Marie Bashkirtseff, etc. 


Blomfield, C. J., Bishop of London. 
(Ὁ. 1786; d. 1857). ‘Posthumous 
Tracts of Porson;’’ ‘‘ Adversaria Por- 
soni;’’ ‘‘ A Dissertation upon the Tra- 
ditional Knowledge of a Promised Re- 
deemer’’ (1819); ‘‘ Five Lectures on 
the Gospel of St. John”? (1823); “A 
Letter on the Present Neglect of the 
Lord’s Day”? (1830). Edited Callimachus 
and /Hschylus, 


Bloomfield, Robert (b. Honington, 
Suffolk, 1766; ἃ. Shefford, Bedfordshire, 
August 19th, 1829). ‘*The Farmer’s 
Boy ”’ (1800); ‘‘ Rural Tales and Ballads”’ 
(1802) ; ‘* Good Tidings ”’ (1804) ; ** Wild 
Flowers’? (1806);  ‘ Miscellaneous 
Poems’? (1805); ‘The Banks of the 
Wye”? (1811) ; ‘* Works ”’ (1814) ; ‘‘ May 
Day with the Muses” (1822); ‘‘ Re- 
mains’? (1824). Selected Correspond- 
ence (1870). 


Bolingbroke, Henry St. Jchn, 
Viscount (b. Battersea, October Ist, 
1678 ; ἃ. December 12th, 1751). ‘‘ Dis- 
sertation on Parties ’’ (1735) ; ““ Letters 
on Patriotism” (1749) ; ‘* On the Study 
of History’? (1752). Selected Corre- 
spondence (1788). Biography: Mac- 
knight’s (1865). See also J. Churton 
Collins’s ** Bolingbroke,”’ ete. (1886), 


Borrow, George (b. Norfolk, 1803; 
d. 1881). ‘* The Zincali ; or, An Account 
of the Gipsies of Spain”’ (1841); ‘‘ The 
Bible in Spain” (1843) ; ‘‘ Lavengro: 
The Scholar, the Gipsy, and the Priest ἢ 
(1851); ‘‘The Romany Rye’’ (1857) ; 
“Wild Waves” (1852) ; ““ Romano Lavo 
Lil ’’ (1874). 


Boswell, James (b. Edinburgh, Oc- 
tober 29th, 1740; d. London, June 19th, 
1795). ‘* Account of Corsica ’’ (1768) ; 
κε Hssays in Favour of the Corsicans ”’ 
(1769); ‘Journal of a Tour to the 
Hebrides with Dr. Johnson”’ (1785) ; 
“‘ Life of Johnson’’ (1791); ‘‘ Letters 
to Rey. W. J. Temple’’ (1856). ‘* Bos- 
welliana’’ (1874). See the Essays by 
Macaulay and Carlyle, ete. 


Bowles, Rev. William Lisle (b. 
King’s Sutton, Northamptonshire, Sep- 
tember 24th, 1762; died Salisbury, April 
7th, 1850). ‘*‘ Fourteen Sonnets ’’ (1789) ; 
““ Poems’”’ (1798-1809) ; ‘The Spirit of 
Discovery’? (1805); ‘*The Missionary 


1337 


Bradley 


of the Andes” (1815).  ‘‘ Collected 
Poems”? (1855). 

Boyd, Rev. Andrew Kennedy 
Hutchison, D.D., LL.D. (b. Auchin- 
leck, November, 1825). ‘‘ Recreations 
of a Country Parson ᾽᾿ (1859) ; ‘* Leisure 
Hours in Town;”’ ‘‘East Coast Days 
and Memories ’’ (1887); ‘*The Best 
Last ”’ (1888); “ Twenty-five Years of 
St. Andrews’’- (1892); ‘St. Andrews 
and Elsewhere ’’ (1895), ete. 


Boyle, Charles, Earl of Orrery (b. 
Chelsea, 1676: d. August 28th, 1731). 
Edited ‘‘ Epistles of Phalaris’’ (1695). 


Boyle, Hon. Robert (b. Lismore, 
January 25th, 1626; d. London, De- 
cember 30th, 1692). ““ Physiological 
Essays’? (1661) ; ‘‘The Usefulness of 
Experimental Natural Philosophy ”’ 
(1663), ete. ‘* Works,’’ with Lite and 
Correspondence (1744). 

Brabourne, Lord, Edward Hugessen 
Knatchbull- Hugessen (Ὁ. Mersham 
Hatch, April 29th, 1829; d. 1893). 
“Stories tor My Children’? (1869) ; 
“Crackers for Christmas’? (1870); 
‘*Moonshine’’ (1871) ; ‘* Tales at Tea- 
time” (1872); ‘‘Queer Folk’? (1878) ; 
“Whispers from Fairyland’’ (1874); 
“ River Legends’? (1874) ; ‘‘ Higgledy- 
Piggledy’’ (1875) ; ‘* Uncle Joe’s Stories ἢ 
(1878) ; ‘‘ Friends and Foes from Fairy- 
land ’’ (1885), ete. Edited ‘‘ Letters of 
Jane Austen ’’ (his maternal great-aunt) 
(1885). 

Braddon, Mary Elizabeth, 1)" 
Mrs. Maxwell (Ὁ. London, 1837). 
“‘ Lady Audley’s Secret ’’ (1862) ; ‘‘ Au- 
rora Floyd’? (1863); “Το the Bitter 
End’’ (1872); ‘‘ Dead Men’s Shoes”’ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ Joshua Haggard’s Daughter ’’ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ Weavers and Weft”’ (1877) ; 
“An Open Verdict’? (1878); ‘‘The 
Cloven Foot’’ (1878) ; ‘‘ Vixen”’ (1879) ; 
“The Story of Barbara ’’ (1880) ; ‘‘ Just 
as I Am”? (1880) ; ‘* Asphodel’’ (1881) ; 
“Mount Royal’ (1882); ‘‘ Phantom 
Fortune ’’ (1883) ; ‘* The Golden Calf’’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ Ishmael’’ (1884) ; ‘*‘ Wyllard’s 
Weird ”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ One Thing Needful’’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Mohawks ”’ (1886); ‘‘ Like 
and Unlike’’ (1887); ‘‘ Cut by the 
County ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ The Fatal Three’’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ The Day will Come” (1889) ; 
“One Iife, One Tove’ (1890) ; 
‘“‘Gerard’’ (1891); ‘‘The Venetians ”’ 
(1891) ; “‘ All Along the River ᾽᾽ (1893) ; 
“Thou Art the Man’”’ (1894); ‘* The 
Christmas Hirelings”’ (1894), ete. Edited 
Belgravia. 

Bradley, Rev. Edward, ‘“ Cuthbert 


Brewer 


Bede’’ (Ὁ. Kidderminster, 1827; d. De- 
cember 12th, 1889). ‘* Adventures of 
Verdant Green”? (1853); “ Glencreg- 
gan ’’ (1861); ‘‘ The Curate of Cranston”? 
δοῦν: A Tour in Tartan Land” 
(1863); “The White Wife’? (1864) ; 
«The Rook’s Garden ”? (1865); “ Mattins 
and Muttons’’ (1866); ‘* Fotheringay 
and Mary Queen of Scots’’ (1886), ete. 


Brewer, The Rev. John Sherren 
(b. 1810; d. 1879). “© Monumenta 
Franciseana’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ Calendar of 
Letters and Papers, Foreign and Do- 
mestic, of the Reign of Henry VIII.” 
(1862, ete.) ; ‘The Reign of Henry 
VIIl.”’ Also edited Fuller’s ‘‘ Church 
History of Britain’? (1845), Roger 
Bacon’s ‘‘ Opus 'Testirum ”’ and ‘* Opus 
Minus”? (1859), and the Carte and 
Carew Papers relating to Ireland (1867). 


Brewster, Sir David, LL.D. (b. 
Jedburgh, December llth, 1781; ἃ, 
February 10th, 1808). ‘* Depolarisation 
of Light’? (1813); ‘Polarisation of 
Light by Reflection’? (1815) ; “Οἱ the 
Production of Polarising Structure by 
Pressure’? (1816); ‘*The Laws of 
Polarisation’? (1818); ‘‘The Kaleido- 
scope’? (1819);  ‘ Elliptical Polarisa- 
tion” (1830); |‘ Opties”? (1831), ete. 
“« Life” (1869), 

Bridges, Robert Seymour, M.B., 
M.R.C.P. (Ὁ. 1844). ‘‘ Growth of Love”’ 
(1876), another edition, 1890; ‘‘ Prome- 
theus the Fire-giver’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Plays ”’ 
(1885); ‘‘Feast of Bacchus’? (1889) ; 
ἐς Shorter Poems ’’ (1890, 1898-1894) ; 
‘Eden ᾽ (1891) ; ‘‘ Achilles in Seyros”? 
{1802}. «ἡ Humours of the Court” (1893); 
** Milton’s Prosody " (1893); ‘* Over- 
heard in Arcady ”’ (1894) ; “John Keats, 
a Critical Essay ’’ (1895). 

Britton, John (b. Kingston-St.- 
Michael, Wiltshire, July 7th, 1771; d. 
January Ist, 1857). ‘‘'The Beauties of 
Wiltshire’? (1801); ‘‘The Cathedral 
Antiquities of England” (1814-1835), 
ete. 


Brontes, The, ‘‘ Poems by Currer, 
Ellis, and Acton Bell’’ (1846).—Char- 
lotte (Ὁ. Thornton, Yorkshire, April 21st, 
1816; d. Haworth, March 3lst, 1855) ; 
*« Jane Eyre ᾽᾽ (1847) ; ‘‘Shirley’’ (1849) ; 
‘Villette’? (1852); ‘‘The Professor ’’ 
(1856). Life by Mrs. Gaskell (1857). See 
“Charlotte Bronté,’? by Wemyss Reid 
(1877) ; Swinburne’s ‘‘ Notes on Char- 
lotte Bronté’’? (1877);  ‘‘ Charlotte 
Bronté,’”’ by Birrell (1887) ; and ‘‘ The 
Brontés in Ireland,” by Dr. William 
Wright (1894).—Emily (Ὁ. idid., 1818 ; 


1338 


Brown 


d. Haworth, 1848): ‘* Wuthering 
Heights ’’ (1847).—Anne (Ὁ. ihid., 1820 ; 
d. Scarborough, 1849) : ‘The Tenant of 
Wildfell Hall ;’”’ ‘‘ Agnes Grey ’’ (1847). 


Brooke, Rev. Augustus Stopford 
(Ὁ. Dublin, 1832). ‘ Life of Fredk. Wm. 
Robertson ”’ (1865); several vols, of ‘‘Ser- 
mons ”’ (1868-94); ‘* Theology in the 
English Poets’? (1874); ‘‘ Primer of 
English Literature ’’ (1878) ; ‘* Milton ἢ 
(1879) ; ‘* Poems”’ (1888); ‘‘ Dove Cot- 
tage’? (1890); ‘‘ History of Early Eng- 
lish Literature’? (1592); ‘* Develop- 
ment of Theology’? (1893); ‘‘ Irish 
Literature ᾿ (1893); ‘Tennyson: His 
Art and Relation to Modern 1116 (1894), 
Has also published an edition of Turner's 
“* Liber Studiorum’’ (1882) ; Meryon’s 
“ Etchings ”’ (1887), and “ The Golden 
Book of ‘Coleridge *” (1894). 


Brooks, Charles Shirley (b. Brill, 
Oxfordshire, 1816; d. February 23rd, 
1874). ‘‘ The Silver Cord ’’ (1841) ; ‘* As- 
pen Court’? (1855); ‘* The Gordian 
Knot’? (1858); ‘‘ Sooner or Later’’ 
(1868) ; ** Poems of Wit and Humour ’”’ 
(1875), ete. Was editor of Punch. 


Brougham, Henry, Baron 
Brougham and Vaux (b, Edinburgh, 
September 19th, 1778; d. Cannes, May 
7th, 1868). “Colonial Policy of the 
European Powers ;’’ ‘‘ Discourses of 
Natural Theology ”’ ’(1835) ; ‘* Speeches ᾽ἢ 
(1838); ‘* Dissertations on Subjects of 
Science’? (1839); ‘‘Statesmen of the 
Time of George 111. (1839-43) ; 
“¢ Political Philosophy ”’ (1840) ; ‘* Albert 
Lunel’”’ (1844); ‘‘Men of Letters and 
Science’? (1845); ‘‘The Revolution in 
France’’ (1849) ; ‘‘ Dialogue on Instinct”’ 
(1849) ; ‘* Analytical View of Newton’s 
‘Principia’’’ (w ah Routh) (1855) ; ‘* Con- 
tributions to the Ldinburgh "Review 
(1857). See Works (1868); Autobio- 
graphy (1871); Bibliography of his 
writings (1873). 


Broughton, Miss Rhoda (b. North 
Wales, November 29th, 1840). ‘‘ Cometh 
up as a Flower”’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Not Wisely, 
but Too Well”? (1867) ; ἐς Red as a Rose 
is She’? (1870); “ Good- -by e, Sweet- 
heart, Good-bye Pa Si2) sass Naneyi22 
(1873) ; “‘ Joan’? (1876); ‘* Second 
Thoughts »? (1880) ; “ Belinda ᾽ (1883) ; 
“« Doctor Cupid’? (1886); ‘ Alas!” 
(1890) ; “Α Widower Indeed,” in col- 
laboration (1891) ; ‘‘ Mrs. Bligh 7, (1892); 
“ A Beginner ”’ (1894), ete. 


Brown, John, M.D. (b. September, 
1810; ἃ. May 11th, 1882). 


‘““Rab and 


δ. 


Brown 


1339 


Buchanan, 


His Friends ”’ 
1858-60). 


Brown, Rev. John, D.D. (b. Bolton- 
le-Moors, Lancs., June 19th, 1830), 
“‘God’s Book for Man’s Life’’ (1881) ; 
“John Bunyan: His Life, Times, and 
Work’? (1885); ‘‘Bunyan’s Home” 
(1890); ‘‘ The Historic Episcopate ”’ 
(1891). Editor of John Bunyan’s Works. 


Browne, Sir Thomas (b. London, 
October 19th, 1605; d. October 19th, 
1682). ‘‘Religio Medici’’ (1642) ; ‘‘Pseu- 
dodoxia Epidemica; or, Inquiry into 
Vulgar Errors’’ (1646) ; ‘‘ Hydriotaphia’’ 
(1658) ; ‘‘ The Garden of Cyrus”? (1658) ; 
“Treatise on Christian Morals”’ (1756, 
with Life by Johnson), Works (1686, 
new edition 1836), 


Browning, Elizabeth Barrett (b. 
London, 1809; d. Florence, June 29th, 
1801. ‘*The Battle of Marathon,”’ 
“Essay on Mind and other Poems”’ 
(1826) ; ‘‘ Prometheus Bound, translated, 
with Poems ”’ (1833) ; ‘The Seraphim ᾽ἢ 
(1838); ‘* The Romaunt of the Page”’ 
(1889); ‘‘Poems’”’ (1844); ‘‘ Sonnets 
from the Portuguese,’’ printed in the 
2nd edition of her ‘‘ Poems’? (1850) ; 
“Casa Guidi Windows”’ (1851) ; ‘* Au- 
rora Leigh’’ (1856); ‘‘ Poems before 
Congress’’ (1860); “ΧΑ Curse for a 
Nation ’’ (1861) ; ‘‘ Last Poems’”’ (1862) ; 
“The Greek Christian Poets’ (1863), 
Works (1864-66). See her ‘ Letters”’ 
(1877) ; Memoir by Stedman; Selden’s 
“Portraits de Femmes’ (1877); and 
Mrs. Ritchie’s ‘‘ Records of Tennyson, 
Ruskin, and the Brownings”’ (1892). 


Browning, Robert (b. Camberwell, 
May 7th, 1812; d. Florence, December 
12th, 1889). ‘‘ Paracelsus’? (1835) ; 
“Strafford”? (1837); ‘* Sordello’’ (1839) ; 
“‘Pippa Passes’? (1842); ‘‘The Blot in 
the ’Scutcheon”’ (1843); ‘Romances and 
Lyrics ’’ (1845); ‘‘A Soul’s Tragedy ”’ 
(1846) ; ‘‘ King Victor and King Charles,”’ 
“Dramatic Lyrics,’ ‘‘ Return of the 
Druses,”’ ‘‘Colombe’s Birthday,’’ ‘* Dra- 
matic Romances,”’ ‘The Soul’s Errand,”’ 
“‘Christmas Eve’? (1850); ‘‘Men and 
Women” (1855); ‘‘ Dramatis Per- 
sone’? (1864); ‘The Ring and the 
Book”? (1868); ‘‘ Balaustion’s Adven- 
ture’? (1871); ‘Prince Hohenstiel- 
Schwangau”’ (1871); ‘‘Fifine at the 
Fair’’ (1872); ‘Red Cotton Nightcap 
Country ’’ (1873) ; ‘‘ Aristophanes’ Apo- 
logy’? (1875) ; ‘‘ The Inn Album”? (1875) ; 
“‘Pacchiarotto ’’? (1876); ‘‘ Agamemnon 
of Aischylus”? (1877); ‘‘La Saisiaz,’’ 
““The Two Poets of Croisie’’ (1878); 


(mn Hore Subsecive, 


“Dramatic Idyls’’ (1879-80) ; ‘‘ Joco- 
seria’? (1883); ‘‘Ferishtah’s Fancies’’ 
(1884) ; ‘‘ Parleyings with Certain Peo- 
ple”’ (1887); ‘* Asolando’’ (1889) ; 
“Prose Life of Strafford’? (1892). Col- 
lected edition, 1888-89. Sve ‘‘ Essays 
on Browning ”’ by Nettleship (1868), and 
McCrie’s ‘‘ Religion of our Literature ; ἢ 
F. J. Furnivall’s ‘‘A Browning Biblio- 
graphy,’? ‘‘The Browning Society 
Papers ;’’ Mrs, Orr’s ‘‘ Handbook to 
Browning,”’ and her ‘‘ Life and Letters ”’ 
(1891) : Mr, Symons’s ‘‘ Introduction to 
the Study of Browning’? (1886); W. 
Sharpe’s ‘‘ Life ’’ (1890) ; Professor 
Henry Jones’s ‘‘ Browning as a Philoso- 
phical and Religious Teacher’’ (1891) ; 
F. Mary Wilson’s ‘‘ Browning Primer’? 
(1891); Mrs, Ritchie’s ‘‘ Records of 
Tennyson, Ruskin, and the Brownings ”’ 
(1892). 

Bryce, The Right Hon. James 
(Ὁ. Belfast, May 10th, 1838). ‘‘ The 
Holy Roman Empire ”’ (1864) ; ‘* Trans- 
caucasia and Ararat’? (1877); ‘*The 
American Commonwealth ”’ (1888). 


Buchanan, George (b. Killearn, 
Stirlingshire, February, 1506; d. Sep- 
tember 28th, 1582), ‘‘ Rudimenta Gram- 
matica’’ (1550); ‘‘ Jepthes’’? (1554) ; 
“Franciscanus’’ (1564); ‘‘Admonition to 
the Lordis Maintenaris of the King’s 
Authoritie’’ (1571) ; ‘‘De Maria Scotorum 
Regina ”’ (1572); ‘‘ Baptistes ’’ (1578) ; 
“*Dialoous de Jure Regni’’ (1579) ; 
“Rerum Scoticorum Historia ’’ (1582) ; 
‘¢ Paraphrasis Psalmorum  Poetica ”’ 
(1569) ; ‘‘De Prosodia”’ (1600). Life 
by Irving (1807). Works (1725). 

Buchanan, Robert Williams (b. 
August 18th, 1841). ‘‘ Undertones ”’ 
(1860) ; ‘*Idyls of Inverburn ”’ (1865) ; 
“London Poems’’ (1866); ‘*‘ Napoleon 
Fallen ’”’ (1871); ‘‘ The Land of Lorne ’’ 
(1871) ; ‘The Drama of Kings”? (1871) ; 
“ The Fleshly School of Poetry ”’ (1872) ; 
‘¢Master Spirits’? (1873) ; ‘* Balder the 
Beautiful’? (1877) ; ‘‘God and the Man”’ 
(1881); ‘*A Child of Nature’? (1881) ; 
“The Martyrdom of Madeleine’”’ (1882) ; 
‘Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour ”’ 
(1882); ‘Love Me for Ever”’ (1883) ; 
“Annan Water’? (1883); ‘‘The New 
Abelard ’’ (1884); ‘‘ Foxglove Manor’”’ 
(1884); ** Matt’? (1885); ‘‘ Stormy 
Waters’’ (1885); ‘‘The Master of the 
Mine ”’ (1885) ; “Α Look Round Litera- 
ture”? (1887); ‘‘The Heir of Linn”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ The City of Dream ”’ (1888) ; 
“The Moment After’? (1890); ‘‘The 
Outcast ᾽᾽ (1891) ; ‘Come, Live with Me 
and be My Love”’ (1891); ‘‘ The Coming 


Buckingham 


1340 


Burns 


Terror, ete.’’ (1891); ‘‘ Poems for the 
People ”’ (1892) ; ‘‘ The Wandering Jew”’ 
(1893) ; ‘* Woman and the Man”? (1893) ; 
‘‘Rachel Dene’ (1894); “Ηρα and 
White Heather’? (1894). With C. 
Gibbon, ‘‘ Storm- Beaten.’? Plays: 
‘The Witchfinder,’? ‘*A Madcap 
Prince,’ ‘‘Sophia,’? ‘‘ The Piper of 
Hamelin,’’ ete. Works (1874). 


Buckingham, George Villiers, 
Duke of (b. Wallingford, January 30th, 
1627; ἃ. Kirkby Moorside, April 16th, 
1688). ‘* The Rehearsal ᾽" (1671), ete. 


Buckle, Henry Thomas (b. 1521; 
ἃ. 1862). ‘‘ History of Civilisation in 
Europe,’”’ vol. 1. (1857), vol. ii. (1861) ; 
“¢ Miscellaneous and Posthumous Works”’ 
(1872). See J. H. Stirling’s ‘‘ Buckle, 
his Problem and his Metaphysies,’’ in 
North American Review (1872), 


Bunyan, John (b. Elstow, Bedford, 
1628; ἃ. London, August 3lst, 1688), 
“Sighs from Hell’’ (1650); ‘* Gospel 
Truths Opened” (1656); ‘The Holy 
City ’’ (1665) ; ‘‘ Grace Abounding ”’ 
(1666) ; ‘‘ Justification by Christ’’ (1671); 
“ Detence of Justification’? (1672) ; 
“ Water Baptism ’”’ (1673) ; ‘‘ The Pil- 
grim’s Progress’’ (1678, 1684); ‘‘ Life 
and Death of Mr. Badman’’ (1680) ; 
‘“‘The Barren Fig-Tree’’ (1683) ; ‘‘ The 
Holy War ’’ (1684) ; ‘‘ The Pharisee and 
Publican”? (1685); ‘*The Jerusalem 
Sinner Saved’’ (1688). Works (1853), 
Biographies by Southey, Macaulay, 
Ivimey (1899); Philip (1839); Froude 
(1880); Dr. John Brown (1885); and 
Canon Venables. 


Burgon, John William, Dean of 
Chichester (Ὁ. 1819; ἃ. 1888). ‘‘ Life 
and Times of Sir Thomas Gresham ἢ 
(1839); ‘* Petra”? (1846) ; ‘‘ Oxford Re- 
formers’? (1854); ‘‘ Historical Notice 
of the Colleges of Oxford’? (1857) ; 
“‘Tnspiration and Interpretation ”’ 
(1861): ‘* Treatises on the Pastoral 
Office’? (1864); ““ Ninety-one Short 
Sermons’ (1867); ‘‘ Disestablishment 
the Nation’s Formal Rejection of God 
and Denial of the Faith’? (1868) ; 
“The Protests of the Bishops against 
Dr. Temple’s Consecration’? (1870) ; 
“The Athanasian Creed to be Retained 
in its Entirety, and Why?” (1872); 
“Α Plea for the Study of Divinity at 
Oxford ”’ (1875) ; ‘The Prayer Book, a 
Devotional Guide and Manual ”’ (1876) ; 
“Divergent Ritual’? (1881); ‘The 
Revision Revised ”’ (1883). 


Burke, Edmund (b. Dublin, January 
12th, 1728 or 1729; d. Beaconsfield, July 


9th, 1797). ‘‘ Vindication of Natural 
Society’? (1756); ‘*The Sublime and 
Beautiful’? (1757); ‘‘ Present State of 
the Nation ᾽ (1769) ; ‘‘ Thoughts on the 
Present Discontents’? (1770); ‘‘ Reflec- 
tions on the French Revolution ”’ (1790) ; 
‘*Appeal from the New to the Old 
Whigs” (1791); ‘‘Letter to a Noble 
Lord ”’ (1795); ‘* Letters on a Regicide 
Peace’? (1796); ‘‘ Observations on the 
Conduct of the Minority”? (1797) ; ete. 
Works (1801); Select Works (1874). 
Correspondence (1817). Best Biogra- 
phies: Macknight’s (1858-60), John 
Morley’s (1867 ; Sketch, 1879). 

Burnaby, Colonel F. G. (Ὁ. 1842; 
ἃ. 1885). ‘‘A Ride to Khiva’’ (1876) ; 
“On Horseback Through Asia Minor ’’ 
(1877); ‘*A Ride Across the Channel’’ 
(1882); ‘‘ Our Radicals ’’ (1886). Life 
by Rt. Τῷ. Mann. 


Burnand, Francis Cowley (b. 
1837). ‘* My Time and What I’ve Done 
with It’ (1874); ‘* The Incompleat 
Angler’ (1887); ‘*‘ Very Much Abroad ”’ 
(1890) ; ‘* Rather at Sea ’’ (1890) ; ‘* Quite 
at Home”’ (1890); ‘‘ The Real Adventures 
of Robinson Crusoe”? (1893); ‘* Happy 
Thoughts ”’ Series; ete. Has been editor 
of Punch since 1880, and has written 
many burlesque and other dramatic 
pieces. 


Burnet, Gilbert, Bishop of Salis- 
bury (Ὁ. Edinburgh, September 15th, 
1643; ἃ. March 17th, 1715). ‘‘ History 
of the Reformation ”’ (1679, 1681, 1715) ; 
“History of My Own Time’? (1724) ; 
etc. Life by Le Clere (1715) and. 
Flaxman. 


Burnett, Mrs. Frances, #é¢ Hodg- 
son (b. Manchester, November 20th, 
1849). ‘‘ That Lass 0’ Lowrie’s ”’ (1877) ; 
“ Kathleen’ (1878); ‘‘Surly Tim” 
(1878) ; ‘‘ Haworth’s”’ (1879) ; ‘‘ Louis- 
jana’’ (1880) ;‘‘A Fair Barbarian ᾽᾽ (1881); 
““Through One Administration ”’ (1883) ; 
‘‘Vagabondia’’ (1884); ‘Little Lord 
Fauntleroy ’’ (1886); ‘‘ Sara Crewe, 
οἷο." ( 1888) ; ‘* The Fortunes of Philippa 
Fairfax ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The Pretty Sister of 
José’? (1889) ; ‘* Little Saint Elizabeth ”’ 
(1890) ; ‘‘ Children I Have Known, ete.”’ 
(1891) ; *‘ Dolly ’? (1893) ; ‘‘The One I 
Know the Best of All’’ (1893), ete. 


Burns, Robert (b. Ayr, January 
25th, 1759; ἃ. Dumfries, July 2181, 
1796). ‘Poems’ (1786). Complete 
Works, Currie (1800). Bibliography by 
McKie (1875). Best edition of Poems, 
Douglas (1877-79). 
graph (1879), οἷο, 


See Nichol’s mono. 


Burton 1341 Byron 
Burton, John Hill, LL.D. (Ὁ. Aber- | Sioux” (1882); ‘‘Campaign of the 
deen, August 22nd, 1809; ἃ. 1882). Cataracts’ (1887); ‘‘ Charles G. Gor- 
‘‘Benthamiana’’ (1838); ‘Life and | don’ (1889); ‘‘ Sir Charles Napier” 
Correspondence of Hume’ (1846); | (1890). 


“Lives of Lovat and Forbes’ (1847); 
“ Political and Social Economy ”’ (1849) ; 
“History of Scotland from the Revolu- 
tion”? (1858); ‘The Book-Hunter”’ 
(1862); ‘‘The Scot Abroad” (1864) ; 
“The Cairngorm Mountain’? (1864) ; 
‘‘History of Scotland from the Earliest 
Period”’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Reign of Queen Anne”’ 
(1880), ete. 


Burten, Sir Richard Francis (b. 
1821 ; 4. October 19th, 1890). ‘‘Sindh”’ 
(1851); ‘* A Pilgrimage to El Medinah 
and Meccah ”’ (1856) ; ‘‘ First Footsteps 
in EF. Africa’’ (1856); ‘‘The Lake Re- 
gions of Central Africa’ (1860) ; ‘* The 

Jity of the Saints’? (1861); ‘‘’‘The Nile 
Basin ’’ (1864) ; ‘ Wit and Wisdom from 
West Africa ’’ (1865) ; ‘‘ Explorations of 
the Highlands of Brazil”? (1869) ; ** Zan- 
zibar ᾿ (1872); ‘‘ Etruscan Bologna” 
(1876); ‘‘Sindh Revisited’’ (1877) ; 
“‘Camoens, his Life and his Lusiads”’ 
(1881); ‘*The Book of the Sword” 
(1884). Has translated and published 
privately ‘‘The Thousand Nights and a 
Night”? (1885). Life by Lady Burton. 


Burton, Robert (Ὁ. Lindley, Lei- 
cestershire, February 8th, 1576; ἃ. Jan- 
uary 25th, 1639). ‘* Anatomy of Melan- 
choly " (1621): ‘* Philosophaster ᾿" (with 
Poemata) (1662). 


Butler, Arthur John (b. Putney, 
June 215, 1844). ‘* Divina Commedia”’ 
withnotesand translation—‘“ Purgatory”’ 
(1880), ‘‘ Paradise’? (1885), ‘‘ Hell” 
(1891); ‘<A Companion to Dante ”’ (1893) ; 
‘*Letters of Count Cavour’’ (1894) ; 
“Dante; his Time and his Work” (1895) ; 
ἐς Select Essays of Sainte-Beuve” (1895). 


Butler, Joseph, Bishop of Durham 
(b. Wantage, Berkshire, May 18th, 1692; 
ἃ. Bath, June 16th, 1752). ‘‘ Sermons” 
(1726) ; “‘ Analogy of Religion ᾽ (1736). 

Butler,Samuel (b. Strensham, Wor- 
cester, 1612; ἃ. 1680). ‘‘ Hudibras”’ 
(1663, 1664, 1678). ‘‘PosthumousWorks”’ 
(many spurious), 1715; “ὁ Remains” 
(1789); ‘‘ Works”? (1861). Life (1849). 


Butler, Major-General Sir Wil- 
liam Francis, K.C.B. (b. Tipperary, 
1838). ‘‘A Narrative of the Historical 
Events Connected with the Sixty-ninth 
Regiment "ἢ (1870); “ὙΠῸ Great Lone 
Land” (1872) ; “The Wild North Land”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘In Akinfoo”’ (1874); ‘ Far 
Out”? (1881) ; ‘Red Cloud, the Solitary 


Byron, Lord, George Gordon Noel 
(b. London, January 22nd, 1788; 
Missolonghi, April 19th, 1824). ‘‘ Hours 
of Idleness ᾽ (1807) ; ‘‘ Poems ’’ (1808) ; 
‘* English Bards and Scotch Reviewers ”’ 
(1809) ; ‘*‘ The Curse of Minerva ᾽ (1812); 
“Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage ’’ (cantos 
i, and ii. in 1812, canto ili, in 1816, 
and canto iv. in 1818); ‘‘ The Waltz ”’ 
(1813); ‘‘The Giaour’’ (1818) ; ‘‘ The 
Bride of Abydos’? (1813); ‘‘Ode_ to 
Napoleon Buonaparte’’ (1814) ; “ὙΠῸ 
Corsair ’’ (1814) ; ‘‘ Lara”’ (1814) ; ““ He- 
brew Melodies’? (1815); ‘‘ The Siege of 
Corinth ᾽" and “‘ Parisina’’ (1816) ; ‘‘ The 
Prisoner of Chillon”’ (1816) ; ‘‘ Manfred ”’ 
(1817) ; ‘“‘ The Lament of Tasso ”’ (1817): 
“‘Monody on the Death of the Right 
Hon. R. B. Sheridan ’’ (1817) ; “‘ Beppo”’ 
(1818) ; ‘‘Mazeppa” (1819); ‘Don 
Juan’ (cantos i. and ii. in 1819, iii., iv., 
and vy. in 1821, vi., vii., and viii. in 
1823) i) xs, τις exalt, amdexiy-.tn 
1823, xv. and xvi. in 1824); ‘‘A Letter 
to John Murray on the Rev. W. L. 
Bowles’s Strictures on the Life and 
Writings of Pope” (1821); ‘‘ Mar- 
ino Faliero,’”? and ‘‘The Prophecy of 
Dante ”’ (1821) ; ‘‘ Sardanapalus,”’ ‘‘ The 
Two Foscari,’’ and ‘‘Cain”’ (1821); 
“ς Werner’? (1822); ‘‘The Vision of 
Judgment’? (1822);  ‘‘Heaven and 
Earth’ (1822); ‘‘The Island” (1823) ; 
“ΤῊ Age of Bronze”? (1823) ; canto 1. of 
the ‘‘ Morgante Maggiore di Messer Luigi 
Pulci,”” translated; ‘‘The Deformed 
Transformed ”’ (1824); ‘‘ Parliamentary 
Speeches in 1812 and 1813”’ (1824). The 
following are the chief publications on 
the poet:—‘‘Memoirs, Historical and 
Critical, of the Life and Writings of Lord 
Byron, with Anecdotes of Some of _his 


| Contemporaries” (1822) ; “Lord By- 


ron’s Private Correspondence, Including 
his Letters to his Mother, Written from 
Portugal, Spain, Greece, and Other Parts 
of the Mediterranean ; Published from 
the Originals, with Notes and Observa- 
tions,” by A. R. C. Dallas (1824) ; ‘‘ Re- 
collections,’ by A. R. C. Dallas (1824) ; 
ἐς Conversations with Lord Byron, Noted 
during a Residence with his Lordship at 
Pisa in the Years 1821 and 1822,” by 
Thomas Medwin (1824) ; ‘‘ Letters on the 
Character and Poetical Genius of Lord 
Byron,”’ by Sir Egerton Brydges (1824) ; 
‘“Lord Byron,’ by Madame Louise 
Belloc (1824); ‘Anecdotes of Lord 
Byron, from Authentic Sources, with 


Cedmon 


1342 


Campbell 


Remarks Illustrative of his Connecticn 
with the Principal Literary Characters 
of the Present Day ᾽ (1824); “ὙΠ Last 
Days of Lord Byron, with his Lordship’s 
Opinions on Various Subjects, particu- 
larly on the State and Prospect of 
Greece,’ by William Parry (1825); 
“‘ Lord Byron en Italie et en Gréce; ou, 
Apercu de sa Vie et de ses Ouvrages, 
@apres des Sources authentiques,’’ by 
the Marquis de Salvo (1825); ‘‘ Narra- 
tive of Lord Byron’s Voyage to Corsica 
and Sardinia, 1821 ᾽ (1825); ‘‘A Short 
Narrative of Lord Byron’s Last Journey 
to Greece, extracted from the Journal 
of Count Peter Gamba ’’ (1825); ‘* Cor- 
respondence of Lord Byron with his 
Friends, Including his Letters to his 
Mother, Written in 1809, 1810, and 1811,” 
edited by A. R. C, Dallas (1825) ; “" Life,”’ 
by J. Galt (1825); ‘*An Inquiry into 
the Moral Character of Lord Byron,”’ 
by J. W. Simmonds (1826); ‘*‘ Memoir,”’ 
by Sir H. Bulwer (1826); ‘‘ Life,’’ by 
W. Lake (1826); ‘*Lord Byron and 
Some of his Contemporaries ’’ (1828) ; 
“‘Life,”’? by Sir Egerton Brydges (1828) ; 
“Memoirs of Lord Byron,’’ by α΄. Clin- 
ton (1828); ‘‘ Life, Letters, and Jour- 
nals,’’ edited by Moore (1830); ‘‘ Con- 
versations with Lord Byron,’’? by Lady 
Blessington (1831); ‘‘Life,’? by Arm- 
strong (1846) ; ‘‘ The True Story of Lady 
Byron’s Life,’’ by Mrs. Beecher-Stowe 
(1867) ; ‘‘ Medora Leigh,’’? by Dr. Mac- 
kay (1869); ‘Recollections of Lord 
Byron,’ by the Countess Guiccioli 
(1870) ; ‘‘ Life,” by Karl Elze (1871) ; 
‘*Trelawney’s Recollections’? (new ed. 
1879) ; ‘‘ Lite,’’ by Nicholl (1881) ;.‘* The 
Real Lord Byron,’’ by J. Cordy Jeaftre- 
son (1882). 


Hazlitt’s ‘‘Spirit of the Age’? and 


“English Poets;’’ Macaulay’s ‘ Es-. 


says ;’’ Swinburne’s preface to a ‘‘ Selec- 
tion from the Poems;”? Sir Henry 
Taylor’s preface to his own ‘* Poems ;”’ 
Brimley’s ‘‘ Essays ; ’? W. M. Rossetti’s 
preface to an edition of the ‘‘ Poems; ”’ 
Kingsley’s ‘‘ Miscellanies;”’ Quarterly 
Review tor July, 1868; the ““ Dictionary 
of National Biography,”’ ete. 


Cc 


Cedmon (d. circa 680).  ‘ Para- 
phrase ἢ (1655) ; best editions—Thorpe’s 


(1832); Bouterwek’s (1849-54); Grein’s | 


(1857-65). — See Watson’s ‘‘ Czedmon, 
the First English Poet’? (1875), and 
Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vol. ii, 


Pr} “4 : “cc ava ὁ 37 
See Jettrey’s ‘‘ Essays ;”? 9th, 1623). 


'“Tnstitutio Greece Grammatices Com- 


Caine, Thomas Henry Hall (b. 
Runcorn, 1853). ‘ Recollections of Ὁ, G. 
Rossetti’? (1882): ‘‘Cobwebs of Criti- 
cism”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ The Shadow of a Crime ”’ 
(1885); ‘‘A Son of Hagar’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Life 
of S. T. Coleridge ’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ The Deem- 
ster’? (1887) ;.‘* The Bondman”’ (1890) ; 
‘The Scapegoat ’’ (1891); “The Little 
Manx Nation ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Captain Davy’s 
Honeymoon, ete,’’ (1892) ; ‘* The Manx- 
man ᾽᾽ (1894). 


Caird, Edward, Master of Balliol 
(Ὁ. Greenock, March 22nd, 1835), ‘* The 
Social Philosophy and Religion of 
Comte ”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ The Critical Philoso- 
phy of Immanuel Kant’’ (1889); ‘‘ Es- 
says on Literature and Philosophy” 
(1892); ‘* The Evolution of Religion ” 
(1893), ete. 


Caird, Principal John, D.D., LL.D. 
(b. Greenock, December, 1820). ‘‘ An 
Introduction to the Philosophy of Reli- 
gion ”’ (1880) ; ‘Spinoza ’’ (1888), ete. 


Cairns, Principal John, D.D., LL.D. 
(b. Ayton, Berwickshire, August 28rd, 
1818; ἃ. March 12th, 1892). ‘‘ Life of 
John Brown, D.D.”’ (1860); ‘ Unbelief 
in the Eighteenth Century’? (1881) ; 
‘Christ, the Morning Star,”’ etc. (1892). 
“Life,” by Dr. Alexander McEwen 
(1898.) 


Calverley, Charles Stuart (b. 1833; 
d. 1884). ‘‘ Verses and Translations ”’ 
(1862) ; ‘‘ A Verse Translation of Theo- 
critus ’’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Fly Leaves ’’ (1872). 
See W. J. Sendall’s “The Literary 
Remains of C. 8. C.”’ 


Camden, William (b. London, May 
2nd, 1551; d. Chislehurst, November 
‘Britannia’? (1586-1607) ; 


pendiaria’’ (1597) ; ““ Anglica, Hiber- 
nica, Normanica, Cambrica, a Veteris 
Scripta ”’ (1604) ; "“ Remains Concerning 
Britain’? (1605); ‘‘ Reges, Regine, 
Nobiles, et alii in Ecclesia Collegiata B. 
Petri Westmonasterii Sepulti, usque ad 
annum 1606’ (1606); ‘* Annales Rerum 
Anglicarum et Hibernicarum regnante 
Elizabetha”’ (1615) ; ‘‘ A Description of 
Scotland’? (1695); and some minor 
works. 5 

Campbell, John, Baron (b. 1781, 
ἃ. 1861). ‘‘ Reports of Cases Determined 
at Nisi Prius’’ (1807-16) ; ‘‘ Letter to 
Lord Stanley ’’ (1837) ; ‘‘ Speeches at the 
Bar and House of Commons” (1842) ; 
ΚΕ Lives of the Chancellors and Keepers 
of the Great Seal of England” (1845- 
48); “Lives of the Chief Justices of 


Campbell 


1348 


Carpenter 


England”? (1849-57); ‘‘ Shakespeare’s 
Legal Acquirements.”’ See ‘‘ Life of John 
Campbell,’’? by Hon. Mrs. Hardcastle. 


Campbell, Thomas (b. Glasgow, 
July 27th, 1777 ; d. Boulogne, June 15th, 
1844). ““ Pleasures of Hope’ (1799) ; 
‘Poems ”’ (1803) ; ‘‘ Annals of Great 
Britain’? (1806) ; ‘‘ Gertrude of Wyo- 
ming’’ (1809); ‘‘Specimens of the 
British Poets ”’ (1819-48) ; ‘* Theodoric”’ 
(1824) ; ‘* Lite of Mrs, Siddons”’ (1834) ; 
“Tetters from the South’ (1837) ; 
‘* Life of Petrarch ᾽᾽ (1841); ‘‘ The Pil- 
grim of Glencoe’’ (1842); ‘‘ Frederick 
the Great’’ (1843); ‘‘ History of Our 
Own Times ”’ (1843) ; ‘CA Poet’s Resi- 
dence in Algiers’’ (1845). ‘‘ Life and 
Letters,”’ by. Beattie (1849), ‘* Literary 
Reminiscences of Thomas Campbell,”’ 
by Cyrus Redding (1859). 


Candlish, Robert Smith, D.D. 
(Ὁ. March 23rd, 1807; d. October 19th, 
1873). ‘‘ Scripture Characters and Mis- 
cellanies’? (1850); ‘‘Examination of 
Mr. Maurice’s Theological Essays ”’ 
(1854) ; “Life ina Risen Saviour’’ (1858) ; 
“Reason and Revelation’? (1859) ; 
‘“The Atonement’’ (1861); ‘* The 
Fatherhood of God”’ (1865) ; ‘‘ Sermons, 
with Biographical Preface’’ (1874) ; 
“Gospel of Forgiveness’? (1878). 
“* Life,” by J. L. Watson. 


Carleton, William (b. Prillisk, Co. 
Tyrone, 1794 ; d. January 30th, 1869), 
“Traits and Stories of the Irish Peasan- 

try ”’ (1830, 1833) ; ‘‘ Tales of Ireland ”’ 
(1834); “ Fardorougha the Μίδου ἢ 
(1889) ; *‘ Valentine McClutchy, the 
Trish Agent” (1845); ‘* Parry Sastha ”’ 
(1845) ; ‘‘ The Black Prophet ”” (1847) ; 
“The Tithe Proctor’? (1849); ‘‘The 
Red Hall’? (1852) ; “¢ The Squanders of 


Castle ,Squander”’ (1852) ;__-** Willy 
Reilly;  {1890) ἢ So the Emigr ants” 
(1857) ; ‘‘ The Evil Hye ”’ (1860) ; “The 


Double Prophecy”? (1862); ‘ Redmond 
Count O’Hanlon ”’ (1862) ; ‘The Silver 
Acre’’ etc. (1862) ; ‘‘ The Fair of Emy- 
vale ’’ (1870), ete. 


Carlyle, Thomas (b. Ecclefechan, 
Dumfriesshire, December 4th, 1795; d. 
London, February 4th, 1881). Brew- 
ster’s ‘‘ Edinburgh Encyclopedia ”’ 
(1820-28), articles on Lady Mary 
Wortley Montague, Montaigne, Mon- 
tesquieu, Montfaucon, Dr. Moore, Sir 
John Moore, Necker, Nelson, Nether- 
lands, Newfoundland, Norfolk, North- 
amptonshire, Norihumberland, Mungo 
Park, Lord Chatham, William Pitt ; 
in The New Edinburgh Review (1821-22) 


papers on Joanna Baillie’s ‘ Metrical 
Legends’? and Goethe’s ‘“ Faust; 
“Schiller’s Lite and Writings ”’ (1823- 
25); translation of ““ Legendre’ s Geo- 
metry,’’ with essay on “ Proportion ” 
(1824) ; a translation of Goethe’s ‘‘ Wil- 
helm Meister ’”’ (1824) ; ‘‘ German Rom- 
ances : Specimens of the Chief Authors, 
with Biographical and Critical Notices ἢ 
(1827); Essays in various Reviews and 
Magazines, republished in the Jfs- 
cellanies (1827-1837); ‘Sartor Resar- - 
tus”? (1833-34) ; ‘‘The French Revo- 
lution’ (1837); ‘*‘Chartism’’ (1839) ; 
‘“*Heroes and Hero-Worship’’ (1840) ; 
“Past and Present’’ (1843); ‘‘ Oliver 
Cromwell’s Letters and Speeches, with 
Elucidations and a Connecting Narra- 
tive ”’ (1845) ; ‘* Latter-Day Pamphlets ”’ 
(1850) ; articlesin The Examiner (1848) 
on Louis Philippe (March 4th), Repeal of 
the Union (April 29th), Legislation for 
Ireland (May 15th); articles in The 
Spectator (1848) on Ireland and the 
British Chief Governor, and Irish Regi- 
ments (of the New Era) (May 13th) ; 
The Death of Charles Buller, in 726 
BLaeaminer (December 2nd, 1848) ; ‘‘ Life 
of John Sterling’ (1851); “Life of 
Friedrich IT.’’ (1865); ‘‘ On the Choice 
of Books”’ (1866); and ‘‘Shooting Nia- 
gara and After? ”? in Macinillan’s 
Magazine for 1867. In 1875 Carlyle 
published a small volume on the ‘‘ Early 
Kings of Norway, and the Portraits of 
John Knox.’ For Biography, see Horne’s 
‘“‘Spirit of the Age;’’ the preface to 
“The Choice of Books;’’ ‘‘ Remini- 
scences’’ (1881) ; Wylie’s ‘“‘ Life,’’ (1881); 
Froude’s ‘‘ Life of Carlyle’’ (1882- 
84), ‘* Reminiscences’ (1883), and 
“* Letters and Memorials of Jane Welsh 
Carlyle’’ (1883); ‘*The Correspon- 
dence of Thomas Carlyle and R. W. 
Emerson,’? edited by C. E. Norton 
(1883) ; Norton’s ‘‘ Letters of Carlyle”’ 
(1887). Seealso British and Foreign Re- 
view for October, 1840, by Giuseppe Maz- 
zini Fag) Essays,’’ by George Brimley ; 
Greg’s ‘Literary and Social Judgments :᾿ 
Morley’s ’s “Critical Miscellanies : 22 Quay - 
terly Review for July, 1865 5 West- 
minster Review for January, 1865 ; 
J. Russell Lowell’s ‘‘ My Study Win- 
dows;’’ Mozley’s ‘‘ Essays”? (1878) ; 
es Lives,” by Moncure D. Conway, H. Je 
Nicholl, and Richard Garnett, and D. 
Masson’s ‘‘ Carlyle, Personally and in 
his Writings ”’ (1885), etc. 


Carpenter, William Benjamin, 
M.D., LL.D. (b. Bristol, 1513; ἃ. 1885). 


| “Principles of Human Physiology” 


Carpenter 


1344 


Chapman 


(1846) ; ‘‘ Animal Physiology ’’ (1847) ; 
“ Mechanical Physiology ’’ (1847) ; ‘‘The 
Physiology of Temperance’’(1843) ; ‘*The 
Principles of Comparative Physiology ἢ 
(1854) ; ‘‘ The Microscope and its Revela- 
tions’’ (1856); ““ Principles of Mental 
Physiology ’’ (1874), ete. 


Carpenter, Right Rev. William 
Boyd, D.D., D.C.L. (b. circa 1841). 
‘Witness of the Heart for Christ”’ 
(1879); ‘*The Permanent Elements of 
Religion’’ (1889); ‘** Lectures on Preach- 
ing ’’ (1895). 


Carroll, Lewis, pseudonym of Rev. 


™. L. Dodgson (Ὁ. 1833). ‘ Alice’s 
Adventures in Wonderland’ (1868); 
‘* Phantasmagoria’’ (1869); ‘ Alice 


Through the Looking-Glass’’ (1872) ; 
“The Hunting of the Snark "ἢ (1876) ; 
“Ὁ Doublets ’’ (1879); ‘‘ Euclid aud his 
Modern Rivals’? (1879) ; ‘* Rhyme ? and 
Reason ?’’ (1883); “Α Tangled Tale” 
(1886) ; ‘‘ The Game of Logic ᾽᾽ (1887), 
etc. 


Cary, Henry Francis (Ὁ. 1772; ἃ, 
1844). ‘Inferno of Dante, with an 
English Translation in Blank Verse” 
(1806) ; ‘‘ Translation of the Inferno, 
Purgatorio, and Paradiso’? (1813) ; 
“* Lives of the English Poets, from John- 
son to Kirke White’’ (1846); ‘‘ The 
Early French Poets ”’ (1847). Mr. Cary 
also translated the ‘‘ Birds’’ of Aristo- 
phanes and the ‘‘Odes”’ of Pindar. ce 
“Ὁ Memoirs of the Rev. H. F. Cary,’’ by 
his son. 


Chalmers, George (b. Fochabers, 
Morayshire, 1742; ἃ. May 3lst, 1825). 
““Caledonia’’ (1807-24) ; ‘‘ Lives”’ of 
Defoe (1786), Ruddiman (1794), Allan 
Ramsay (1800), ete. 


Chalmers, Thomas, D.D. (b. Ans- 
truther, March 17th, 1780; d. Edin- 
burgh, May 30th, 1847). ‘‘ Extent and 
Stability of the National Resources ’”’ 
(1808); ““ Astronomical Discourses ” 
(1816); ‘* Political Eeonomy”’ (1832) ; 
‘« Adaptation of Nature to the Constitu- 
tion of Man” (1833), ete. ‘ Life’? by 
Hanna prefixed to Works (1849). See 
also Memoir by Mrs. Oliphant (1893). 


Chambers, Robert (b. Peebles, 1802; 
d. March 17th, 1811): ‘‘ Illustrations of 
the Author of ‘ Waverley’’’ (1822); ‘‘Tra- 
ditions of Edinburgh ”’ (1824) ; ‘‘ Walks 
in Edinburgh” (1825); ‘History of 
the English Language and Literature ”’ 
(1837) ; ‘‘ Vestiges of the Natural His- 
tory of Creation’? (1844); ‘‘ Explora- 


tion,” a sequel to the ‘ Vestiges”’ Ὁ 


(1845) ; ““ Essays ”’ (1847); ‘‘ Ancient Sea 
Margins ’’ (1848) ; ‘‘ History of Scotland ”’ 
(new edition, 1849); ‘* Scottish Jests and 
Anecdotes ’’ (1856); ‘‘ Edinburgh Mer- 
chants and Merchandise in Old ‘Times ἢ 
(1859); ‘* Edinburgh Papers’? (1861); 
‘*Domestic Annals of Scotland.”’ Me- 
moir by William Chambers (1871). (See 
also CHAMBERS, WILLIAM, LL.D.) 


Chambers, William, LL.D. (b. 
Peebles, 1800; d. May 20th, 1883), “A 
History of the Gipsies’’ (1822); ‘ The 
Book of Scotland ’’ (1830) ; ““ Glenormis- 
ton ”’ (1849); ‘* Fiddy ᾽ (1851) ; “ Some- 
thing of Italy’’ (1862); “ A History of 
Peebles-shire’’ (1864) ;** Sketches’? (1866); 
** France *’ (1866); ‘* About Railways ” 
(1866) ; ‘*‘ Memoir of Robert Chambers ”’ 
(1871) ; ‘* Ailie Gilroy ” (1872) ; ‘* Stories 
of Old Families’ (1878); ‘Story of 
St. Giles’s Church, Edinburgh ’’ (1879) ; 
““The Story of a Long and Busy Life.’ 
(1882), ete. Editor, with his brother 
Robert, of many educational and other 
works, 


Chapman, George (b. near Hitchin, 
Hertfordshire, 1557 or 1559; ἃ. 1634), 
‘‘Skianuktos, the Shadow of Night” 
(1595); ‘*Ovid’s Banquet of Sense” 
(1595); ‘*The Shield of Achilles ”’ 
(1596); ‘* The Blind Beggar of Alexan- 
dria’? (1598); ‘*An Humerous Dayes 
Myrth”’ (1599); ‘‘ All Fooles’’ (1605) ; 
“Eastward Hoe” (1605); ‘* Monsieur 
dOlive”’ (1606); “Ὑπὸ Gentleman 
Usher’? (1606); ‘* Bussy d’Ambois’’ 
(1607) ; ‘* The Conspiracie and Tragedie 
of Charles, Duke of Byron’’ (1608) ; 
‘*Euthymize Raptus; or, the Teares of 
Peace’’ (1609); ‘‘May Day”’ (1611); 
‘* An Epicede, or Funerall Song, on the 
Most Disastrous Death of Henry, Prince 
of Wales’? (1612); ‘*The Widowes 
Teares’’ (1612); ‘*The Memorable Maske 
of the Two Honourable Houses of 
Inns of Court’? (1614); ‘* Andromeda 
Liberator; or, the Nuptials of Perseus 
and Andromeda” (1614) ; ‘‘ Eugenia; or, 
True Nobilities Trance’? (1614) ; ‘* Two 
Wise Men and all the Rest Fooles”’ 
(1619); ‘* Pro Vere Autumni Lachryme, 
to the Memory of Sir Horatio Vere”’ 
(1622) ; “Α Justification of the Strange 
Action of Nero, being the Fifth Satire 
of Juvenal, Translated *’ (1629); ‘* Caesar 
and Pompey” (1631); ‘‘The Ball,’’ 
“ΤῊ Tragedie of Chabot, Admirall of 
France ἢ (1639); ‘‘ Revenge for Honour ”’ 
(1654); ‘*The Tragedie of Alphonsus, 
Emperor of Germany” (1654); and 
‘““The Second Maiden’s Tragedy.’? He 
also published translations of Homer 


- Charles 


1345 


Chaucer 


(1596), Hesiod (1612), and Muszus 
(1016). Chapman’s Works were edited, 
in 1874, by R. H. Shepherd. For 
Biography and Criticism, see Wood’s 
‘Athenee Oxonienses ;’’ Longbaine’s 
“‘Dramatick Poets;’’ Warton’s ‘‘ Eng- 
lish Poetry;’’ Campbell’s ‘ English 
Poets ;’’ Hazlitt s ‘‘ Age of Elizabeth;”’ 
Hallam’s ‘‘ Literature of Europe ;’’ Swin- 
burne’s introduction to the Works (1875) ; 
and Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vols. 
x. and xi. He has been panegyrised by 
Waller, Pope, Dr. Johnson, Godwin, 
Lamb, Coleridge, Keats, ete. 


Charles, Mrs. Elizabeth (b. 1826). 
“The Draytons and Davenants”’ (1841); 
‘<The Chronicles of the Schonberg-Cotta 
Family”’ (1863) ; ‘‘ Lapsed but not Lost”’ 
(1881); ‘*The Diary of Mrs, Kitty 
Trevylyan”’ (1884), ete. 


Chatterton, Thomas (Ὁ. Pristol, 
November 20th, 1752; d. Holborn, 
August 25th, 1770). Wrote various 


pieces—ascribed by him to one Thomas 
Rowley—which were first published in 
a collective form by Thomas Tyrwhitt, 
in 1777, under the title of ‘‘'The Poems 
supposed to have been written at Bristol 
by ‘Thomas Rowley and Others in the 
Fifteenth Century, with an Introduc- 
tory Account of the several Pieces, and 
a Glossary.”? This was followed, in 
1778, by ‘‘ Chatterton’s Miscellanies in 
Prose and Verse,’? and in 1784 by a 
‘‘Supplement to the Miscellanies of 
Thomas Chatterton.’’ Of the bitter and 
protracted controversy that arose upon 
the question of the authenticity of the 
Poems, an account is given in Kippis’s 
“Biographia Britannica,’ a list of 
the principal pamphlets published in the 
course of the dispute being contained 
in Lowndes’s *‘ Bibliographer’s Manual”’ 
under the heading of *‘ Rowley.’? Edi- 
tions of the Poems were issued in 1803, 
1842, 1865, and 1871; but sce ““ Poetical 
Works by Thomas Chatterton, with 
Essay on the Rowley Poems,’ by 
Prof. W. Skeat, and ‘‘ Memoir ᾽" by Ed- 
ward Bell (1875). For Biography, see 
the ‘‘ Lives’? by Gregory (1789), Da- 
vis (1809), Dix (1837), Martin (1865), 
Wilson (1869), and Masson (1875). For 
Criticism, sce the Essays by Tyrwhitt, 
Southey, Warton, Campbell, Scott, 
Masson, Wilson, etc. 


Chaucer, Geoffrey (b. about 1510; 
d. Westminster, 1400), was author of 
the following works :—‘‘ The Canterbury 
Tales :’’ ‘* The Court of Love;’’ ‘‘ The 
Parlement of Birddes; or, the Assembly 


85 


of Foules;’’ ‘‘ The Boke of Cupid, God 
of Love; or, the Cuckow and the Night- 
ingale ;’’ ‘‘ The Flower and the Leaf ;”’ 
“<'Troylus and Cresseyde ;’’ ‘* Chaucer’s 
A, B, C;”’ ‘*Chaucer’s Dream ;’’ ‘* The 
Boke of the Duchesse;’’ ‘‘Of Quene 
Anelyda and the False Arcite ;’’ ‘‘ The 
House of Fame;’’ ‘‘The Legende of 
Goode Women ;”’ ‘‘'The Romaunt of the 
Rose ;’’ ‘* The Complaynt of a Loveres 
Lyfe ;’’ ‘‘ The Complaynt of Mars and 
Venus; ”’ ‘‘ A Goodly Ballade of Chau- 
cer;’’ and ‘‘ A Praise of Women.’’ His 
minor poems are :—‘‘ The Compleynte of 
the Dethe of Pite;’’ ‘‘ Ballade de Vilage 
Sauns Peynture;’’ ‘‘ Ballade Sent to 
King Richard ;’’ ‘*The Compleynte of 
Chaucer to his Purse ;”’ ‘* Good Counseil 
of Chaucer ;’’ ‘‘ Prosperity ;”’ ‘‘ A Bal- 
lade ;”’ ‘‘L’Envoy de Chaucer a Sco- 
gan;’’ ‘‘L’Envoy de Chaucer a Bule- 
ton ;’’ ‘* Aitas Prima,”’ “‘ Leaulté Vault 
Richesse ;”’ ‘‘ Proverbes de Chaucer ;”’ 
‘““Roundel;”’ ‘‘ Virelai;’’ ‘‘ Chaucer’s 
Prophecy ;”’ ‘‘ Chaucer’s Wordes unto 
his own Scrivener ;’’ and ‘‘ Oratio Gal- 
fridi Chaucer.” These two lists, at any 
rate, represent the poems attributed to 
Chaucer by the earlier editors. Later 
critics deny his claim to such poems as 
“The Court of Love,” ‘‘The Flower 
and the Leaf,’’ and ‘‘Chaucer’s Dream.’’ 
Works of Chaucer were first printed in 
1532 ; followed by editions in 1542, 1561 
(Stowe), 1598 (Speght), 1721 (Urry), 
1775 (Tyrwhitt), 1822 (Singer), 1846 
(Sir H. Nicolas), and 185 (Bell). Edi- 
tions have been published by Professor 
Childs in America, by D. Morris in the 
«¢ Aldine Poets,’’ and by Professor W. 
W. Skeat, ete. A Biography of the poet 
is given by his editors, and a ‘‘ Life” 
has been written by Godwin. Sce 
also ‘‘ Illustrations’? by Todd (1810) ; 
ἐς The Riches of Chaucer,’’? with a Me- 
moir by Charles Cowden Clarke (1835) ; 
‘“¢Poems of Chaucer Modernised,’’? by 
Wordsworth, Leigh Hunt, Horne, Bell, 
and others, with ‘‘ Life’? by Schmitz 
(1841) ; ‘¢ Tales from Chaucer in Prose ; ”’ 
“Chaucer’s England,’ by Matthew 
Browne; the Memoir by Skeet; the publi- 
cations of the Chaucer Society, passim ; 
Warton’s ‘‘ English Poetry ;’’ Hazlitt’s 
ἐς English Poets ;’? Campbell’s “ English 
Poets;’’ Coleridge’s ‘‘ Table Talk ;”’ 
J. R. Lowell’s ‘‘ My Study Windows; "ἢ 
Minto’s ‘English Poets;’’ Kissner’s 
«Essays on Chaucer;” . Lindner’s 
ἐς Hssay on Chaucer’s Alliterations;”’ the 
“Dictionary of National Biography,” 
and Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,”’ vols. 
v. and yi, 


᾿ Chesterfield 


1346 


Clarendon 


Chesterfield, Earl of, Philip Dor- 
mer Stanhope (b. London, September 
22nd, 1694; ἃ. March 24th, 1773). ‘* Let- 
ters to his Son, Philip Stanhope,’’ which, 
together with several other ‘‘ Pieces on 
Various Subjects,’ were first published 
in 1774. In addition to his ‘* Miscellane- 
ous Works,’’ published with ‘* Memoirs 
of his Life’? by Dr. Maty in 1777, are 
included ‘* Miscellaneous Pieces and 
Characters ;’’ ‘‘ Letters to his Friends ;”’ 
‘“*The Art of Pleasing ;”’ ‘* Free Thoughts 
and Bold Truths ;”’ ‘‘ The Case of the 
Hanover Forces, with Vindication and 
Further Vindication ;’? ‘‘'The Lords’ 
Protest;’’ ‘‘ Letter to the Abbé de 
Ville ;’’ and “ὁ Poems.’ Selections from 
the Works were published in 1874. His 
Letters were edited by Earl Stanhope in 
1846. See Mrs. Oliphant’s ‘ Historical 
Sketches of the Reign of George II.,”’ 
Hayward’s  ‘‘ Biographical Essays,”’ 
Quarterly Review for 1845, and M. 
Sainte-Beuve’s ‘* Causeries de Lundi.”’ 


Cheyne, Rev. Professor Kelly, 
D.D. (b. London, September 18th, 1841). 
“The Hallowing otf Criticism ’’ (1888) ; 
“The Origin and Religious Contents 
of the Psalter’? (1891); ‘* Aids to the 
Devout Study of Criticism’? (1892) ; 
“* Founders of the Old Testament Criti- 
cism’’ (1893); ‘‘ Introduction to the 
Book of Isaiah’’ (1895), ete. 


Chillingworth, William (b. Oxford, 
October, 1602; d. January 30th, 1644). 
‘Religion of Protestants a Way to 
Salvation ’’ (1638); Works, with ‘‘ Life ”’ 
by Birch (1742) ; best edition, 1838. See 
Principal Tulloch’s ‘* Rational Theology 
in England,’’? Hunt’s ‘‘ History of Re- 


ligious Thought,’’ Wood’s ‘ Athens 
Oxonienses,’’ Fuller’s ‘* Worthies,’’ 
Mazeaux’ ‘Historical ~and _ Critical 


Account of the Life and Writings of 
William Chillingworth,’’ and Cheynell’s 
** Chilimgworthii Novissima.”’ 

Church, Rev. Alfred John (Ὁ. Lon- 
don, January 29th, 1820), ‘ Roman Life 
in the Days of Cicero”’ (1883); ‘‘The 
Chantry Priest of Barnet’? (1884) ; 
“‘Carthage * (1886) ; ‘‘ Early Britain ”’ 
(1889) ; ‘* Stories from the Early Come- 
dians’’? (1892); ‘The Fall of Athens” 
(1894), ete. ete. 


Church, Richard William, Dean of 
St. Paul’s (b. Lisbon, 1815 ; d. December 
9th, 1890). ‘* Life of St. Anselm ”’ (1871); 
“The Beginning of the Middle Ages” 
(1877) ; ‘*Spenser’’ (1878); ‘‘ Bacon” 
(1878); ‘‘ Dante and Other Essays”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ Miscellaneous Essays ᾽ (1888) ; 


“The Oxford Movement’ (1891); 
“ Cathedral and University Sermons” 
(1892); ‘* Village Sermons’’ (1892-94), 
‘Life and Letters,’ by his daughter, 
M. C, Church. 


Churchill, Charles (b. Westmixster, 
February, 1731; d. Boulogne, November 
4th, 1764). ‘* The Rosciad ᾽" (1761) ; “An 
Apology to the Critical Reviewers ” 
(1761); “Night, an Epistle” (1761) ; 
‘“‘The Ghost”? (1762); ‘‘ The paepnecy 
of Famine” (1763); ‘‘An Epistle to 
William Hogarth’ (1763); ‘* The Con- 
ference ’’ (1763); ‘* The Duellist ”’ (1763); 
“The Author’? (1764); ‘‘Gotham” 
(1764) ; ‘* The Candidate ’’ (1764) ; ‘The 
Farewell” (1764) ; ‘‘ The Times ᾽ (1764) ; 
“Independence”? (1764); ‘*The Jour- 


| ney;’’ and the ‘‘ Dedication to Churchill's 


Sermons.’’? Works in 1770. Sce the 
edition of 1804, with ‘‘An Authentic 
Account of his Life,’? by W. Tooke. Sve 
also Campbell’s ‘* English Poets,’’ Cow- 
per’s ‘Letters,’ Forster’s ‘‘ Essays,” 


| and the introductory essay, by Hannay, 


prefixed to the ‘‘ Aldine Edition’? of 
the poems (1867). 


Cibber, Colley (b. London, 1671; 
ἃ. December 12th, 1757). ‘‘ Love’s Last 
Shift ; or, the Fool in Fashion ’’ (1695) ; 
‘“Woman’s Wit’? (1697); ‘‘ Xerxes” 
(1699) ; ‘* The Careless Husband”? (1704); 
‘The Nonjuror’” (1717). ‘* Works” 
(1721). See his ‘‘ Apology for His Own 
Life’’ (1740). 

Clarendon, Earl of, Edward Hyde 
(b. Dinton, Wilts, February 18th, 1608 ; d. 
Rouen, December 9th, 1674). ‘‘ Brief 
View and Survey of the Dangerous and 
Pernicious Errors to Church and State in 
Hobbes’ ‘ Leviathan’’’ (1676); ‘The 
History of the Rebellion and Civil 
Wars in England, to which is added 


an Historical View of the Affairs’ 
in Ireland” (1702); ‘The History 


of the Rebellion and Civil War in 
Treland”’ (1720); ‘‘The Life of Ed- 
ward, Earl of Clarendon, Lord High 
Chancellor of England, and Chancellor 
of the University of Oxford, being a 
Continuation of the History of the Grand 
Rebellion, from the Restoration to his 
Banishment in 1667, written by Himself 7 
(1759) ; “Essay on an Active and 
Contemplative Life, and Dialogue on 
Education and the Respect Due to Age”’ 
(1764-95) ; ¢ Religion and Policy, and the 
Countenance and Assistance Each should 
Give to the Other’ (1811); ‘* Essays, 
Moral and Entertaining, on the Various 
Faculties and Passions of the Human 
Mind” (1815); ‘‘The Natural History 


Clarke 


1347 


Cobbe 


of the Passious.’’ For Biography, sce 
Wood’s ‘* Athenze Oxonienses;’’ ‘¢ An 
Historical Inquiry respecting the Cha- 
racter of Edward Hyde, Earl of Claren- 
don,’’ by the Hon. Agar Ellis (1827) ; and 
the ‘‘Life of Clarendon,’’ by T. H. 
Lister; Hallam’s ‘“‘ Literary History ;”’ 
Macaulay’s ‘‘ History ;’’? Campbell’s 
‘Lord Chancellors,’? and the ‘‘ Dic- 
tionary of National Biography.’’ The 
Clarendon Press edition of ‘‘The Re- 
bellion in England,”’ with Warburton’s 
Notes (1849); ‘‘State Papers”? (1767, 
1773, 1786). 

Clarke, Charles Cowden (b. En- 
field, December 15th, 1787 ; d. March 13th, 
1877). ‘* Tales from Chaucer’? (1833) ; 
ἐς Shakespeare Characters, chiefly Subor- 
dinate ’”’ (1863) ; ‘‘Moliére Characters” 
(1865), ete. See “" Recollections of Charles 
and Mary Cowden Clarke”’ (1878). 


Clarke, Mrs. Mary Cowden, n/c 
Novello (Ὁ. June, 1809). ‘* A Complete 
Concordance to the Works of Shake- 
speare’’? (1845); ‘*The Adventures of 
Kit Bam, Mariner” (1848); ‘‘The 
Girlhood of Shakespeare’s Heroines’’ 
(1850); ‘*The Iron Cousin’? (1854) ; 
‘“‘World-Noted Women”? (1857) ; ‘‘ Many 
Happy Returns of the Day: A Birthday 
Book”? (1860) ; ‘‘ Trust and Remittance ”’ 
(1873); ‘A Rambling Story’’ (1874). 
Edited (with her husband) ‘‘ Cassell’s 
Illustrated Shakespeare’? (1865-69 ; new 
form, 1874). (Sve CLARKE, CHARLES 
CowDEN.) 


Clarke, Samnel, D.D. (b. Norwich, 
October 11th, 1675; d. May 17th, 1729). 
‘¢Sermons”’ (including those on ‘‘ The 
Being and Attributes of God” and ‘‘ The 
Evidences of Natural and Revealed Re- 
ligion’’); ‘‘A Paraphrase of the Four 
Evangelists,’ ‘Three Practical Mssays 
on Baptism, Confirmation, and Repent- 
ance,’’? ‘*An Exposition on the Church 
Catechism,’’ “ΔΑ Letter on the Immor- 
tality of the Soul,” ‘ Reflections on 
Toland’s ‘ Amyntor,’’’ ‘*The Scripture 
Doctrine of the Trinity,’ ‘Several 
Tracts Relating to the Subject of the 
Trinity,’ ‘Papers on the Principles of 
Natural Philosophy and Religion,” ‘‘ A 
Letter on Velocity and Force in Bodies 
in Motion ;”’ all included in the collected 
edition of Clarke’s ‘‘ Works,”’ published 
in 1738 under the editorship of Benjamin 
Hoadley, Bishop of Winchester.  Sce 
the ‘‘ Lives’’ by Hoadley and by Whiston 
(1748). 

Clayden, Peter William (b. Wal- 
lingford, October 20th, 1827). ‘‘ Samuel 


Sharpe’? (1884); ‘‘The Early Life of 
Samuel Rogers’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Rogers and 
his Contemporaries’ (1889), ete. 


Clifford, Rev. John, LL.B., D.D. 
(b. Sawley, near Derby, October 16th, 
1836). ‘¢Is Life Worth Living ?”’ (1880) ; 
“The Dawn of Manhood’ (1886) ; 
‘““The Inspiration and Authority of the 
Bible’”’? (1892); ‘‘The Christian Cer- 
tainties’’ (1893), ete. 

Clifford, William Kingdon (b. 1845; 
d. 1879). ‘‘Elements of Dynamics”’ 
(1878) ; ‘* Seeing and Thinking ’’ (1879) ; 
“Lectures and Essays,’ edited by Leslie 
Stephen and W. H. Pollock, with a 
Memoir (1879) ; ‘‘ The Common Sense of 


the Exact Sciences’? (1885); ‘'The 

Elements of Dynamics”’ (1887). 
Clifford (Lucy), Mrs. William 

Kingdon, #c Lane. “* Anyhow 


Stories ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Mrs, Keith’s Crime ”’ 
(1885) ; ‘* Very Short Stories and Verses 
for Children ’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Love-Letters of 
a Worldly Woman’ (1891); ‘ Aunt 
Anne’’ (1892); ‘*The Last Touches,”’ 
etc. (1892) ; “Α Wild Proxy’ (1898). 


Clough, Arthur Hugh (b. Liver- 
pool, January Ist, 1819 ; d. Florence, No- 
vember 13th, 1801). “ὙΠ Bothie of 
Tober-na- Vuolich, a Long Vacation Pas- 
toral;”’ ‘‘ Dipsychus;’’ ‘‘ Amours de 
Voyage ;”’ ‘Mari Magno;”’ ‘ Ambar- 
valia’’; a translation of the ‘‘ Lives ”’ 
of Plutarch. “Poems and Prose 


Remains,’”’ edited by Mrs, Clough 
(1869); ‘*Poems and Essays,’’ with 


“Tife’? by J. A. Symonds (1871) ; 
S. Waddington’s ‘‘ Arthur Clough: A 
Monograph” (1883). See ‘‘ Memoir,’’ by 
F.T. Palgrave, prefixed to the ‘‘ Poems ”’ 
(1863) ; ‘‘ Essays,” by R. H. Hutton ; 
Cornhill for 1866; Quarterly Review for 
1869; Contemporary Review for 1869, and 
Macmillaw’'s Magazine, vols. vi. and xv. 
Cobbe, Miss Frances Power (b. 
December 4th, 1822). ““ Essays on the 
Pursuits of Women”’ (1863); ‘‘ Broken 
Lights: Prospects of Religious Faith” 
(1864) ; ‘‘ Cities of the Past” (1864) ; 
“Religious Duty ”? (1864) ; ‘‘ Studies of 
Ethical and Social Subjects ’’ (1865) ; 
“Dawning Lights”’ (1868); ‘‘Alone to the 
Alone”? (1871) ; ‘‘ Darwinism in Morals ”’ 
(1872) ; ‘Hopes of the Human Race’’ 
(1874) ; ‘* Moral Aspects of Vivisection ”’ 
(1877); ‘‘ Duties of Women” (1881) ; 
“‘The Peak in Darien ’’ (1882) ; ‘* Scien- 
tific Spirit of the Age’ (1888); ‘‘ The 
Friend of Man, and his Friends—the 
Poets”? (1889); ‘‘The Modern Rack’’ 
(1889). ‘‘ Life of Ἐς P, Cobbe’’ (1894). 


Cobbett | 


Cobbett, William (b. Farnham, 
Surrey, March 9th, 1762; d. Ash, near 
Farnham, June 18th, 1835). ‘The 
Works of Peter Porcupine’’ (1801) ; 
“‘The Political Register’? (1802-35) ; 
“Α History of the Reformation ”’ (1810) ; 
“A Year’s Residence in the United 
States’ (1818-19) ; ‘*An English Gram- 
mar, in a Series of Letters to his Son”’ 
(1819); ‘Cottage Economy,’ ‘“ Rural 
Rides in England,’’ ‘‘Curse of Paper 
Money,’’ ‘‘Advice to Young Men,”’ 
‘““A Legacy to Parsons,’? and other 
works, A selection from his political 
writings was published, with a ‘ Life,’ 
by his son, in 1837. See the ‘‘ Life’? by 
Huish (1835), by Smith (1878). 


Cockburn, Henry Thomas, Lord 
(b. Edinburgh, October 26th, 1779; d. 
Bonaly, near Edinburgh, April 26th, 
1854). ‘* The Life and Correspondence 
of Lord Jeffrey’? (1852); ‘* Memorials 
of his Times’? (1856), of which addi- 
tional volumes appeared in 1874; 
““ Correspondence ’’ (1874). 

Coke, Sir Edward (b. Mileham, 
Norfolk, 1551; d. September 3rd, 1633) 
“The Institutes,’ the first part of 
which, originally published in 1628, was 
reprinted in 1823 and 1832 as ‘‘The 
Institutes of the Laws of England; or, 
a Commentary upon Littleton by Lord 
Coke, Revised and Corrected, with Addi- 
tions of Notes, References, and Proper 
Tables, by Francis Hargrave and Charles 
Butler, including also the Notes of Lord 
Hale and Lord Chancellor Nottingham, 
with additional Notes by Charles Butler, 
of Lincoln’s Inn.’? The second part 
of “The Institutes,’’ containing a com- 
mentary on Magna Charta and an 
exposition of many ancient and other 
statutes, appeared in 1642; the third 
part, concerning high treason and other 
pleas of the crown and criminal causes, 
in 1644; and the fourth part, concerning 
the jurisdiction of courts, in the same 
year. ‘*The Book of Entries’’ (1614) ; 
““Reports from 14 Elizabeth to 13 
James 1. (1600-16); ‘‘The Compleat 
Copyholder,”’ ‘* Reading en 27 Edward 
the First,’ called the ‘‘ Statute de Fini- 
bus Levatis,’? and ‘* A Treatise on Bail 
and Mainprize,’’ the last three being 
published in 1764. 

Colenso, John William, D.D., Bishop 
of Natal (Ὁ. January 24th, 1814; ἃ. June 
20th, 1883). Several works on arith- 
metic and algebra; ‘‘ Village Sermons”? 
(1868) ; “*Ten -Weeks in Natal” 
(1855); a translation of ‘The Epistle 
to the Romans’’ (1861); ‘‘The Penta- 


1348 


Collier 


teuch and Book of Joshua Critically 


Examined”? (1862-72); ‘‘ Natal Sermons 
(1866); a criticism on ‘‘The Speaker's 
Commentary ”’ (1871) ; ‘* Lectures on the 
Pentateuch’’ (1873). He also wrote a 
Zulu Grammar and Dictionary. ‘ Life’’ 
by Rev. Sir G. W. Cox (1888). 

Coleridge, Hartley (b. Clevedon, 
1796; ἃ. Ambleside, 1849), ‘‘ Worthies 
of Yorkshire and Lancashire.’’ His 
‘Poetical Remains’? and ‘‘ Essays and 
Marginalia”’ appeared in 1851, with a 
““Memoir”’? by his brother, the Rev. 
Derwent Coleridge. See Macmillan’s 
Magazine, vol. v. 

Coleridge, Samuel Taylor (Ὁ. 
Ottery St. Mary, Devonshire, October 
21st, 1772 ; ἃ. Highgate, July 24th, 1834). 
“The Fall of Robespierre’’ (1794) ; 
“Poems”? (1794) ; ‘* Conciones ad Popu- 
lum”? (1795); ‘* The Ancient Mariner ”’ 
(1798) ;. ‘* The Friend’? (1812); ‘ Re- 
morse’? (1813); ‘*Christabel’’ (1816) ; 
‘* Biographia Literaria’’ (1817); ‘ Lay 
Sermons ”’ (1816-17) ; ‘‘ Zapolya”’ (1818); 
“ Aids to Reflection’? (1825); ‘ Table 
Talk”? (1835); and ‘‘ Remains’’ (1836). 
See the ‘Life’? by Gilman (1838) ; 
the ‘‘ Reminiscences ’’ by Cottle (1847) : 
and edition of ‘‘Poems and Dramas”’ 
(:878) ; H D. Traill’s Biography in the 
English Men of Letters series; Hail 
Caine’s Biography (1887); ‘* Samuel 
Taylor Coleridge and the Romantic 
School,”’? by Alois Brandl, translated by 
Lady Eastlake (1887). For Criticism, sce 
Shairp’s ‘‘Studies in Poetry,’’? Swin- 
burne’s ‘‘ Essays and Studies,’’ Hazlitt’s 
“« English Poets,’? Hunt’s ‘‘ Imagination 
and Fancy,’’ Quarterly Review for 1868, 


Westminster Review for 1868, ete. Sve 
also Carlyle’s ‘‘ Life of Sterling,’’ 


Coleridge’s own ‘ Biographia Literaria,”’ 
‘“ Specimens of Coleridge’s Table Talk,” 
Lamb’s ‘‘ Letters,’’ Chorley’s ‘* Authors 
of England,’ and Stopford Brooke's 
“Golden Book of Coleridge’? (1895). 
“‘Letters,’’ edited by E. Hartley Cole- 
ridge (1895). 


Collier, Jeremy (b. September 23rd, 
1650; ἃ. April 26th, 1726). ‘‘ Essays 
upon Several Moral Subjects’? (1697- 
1705) ; “Α Short View of the Immorality 
and Profaneness of the English Stage’’ 
(1698) ; ‘*The Great Historical, Geo- 
graphical, Genealogical Dictionary ”’ 
(1701); ‘An Ecclesiastical History of 
Great Britain, Chiefly of England, from 
the First Planting of Christianity to the 
End of the Reign of King Charles the 
Second, with a Brief Account of the 
Affairs of Religion in Ireland, Collected 


- Collier 


1349 


Congreve 


ne 


from the Best Ancient Historians ”’ 
(1708), and ‘Discourses on Practical 
Subjects.”’ 

Collier, John Payne (b. January 
llth, 1789; d. September 17th, 1883), 
“The Poetical Decameron’? (1820) ; 
‘The Poet’s Pilerimage’’ (1822); an 
edition of Dodsley’s ‘“ Old Plays’? (i825); 
“ History of Dramatic Poetry ’’ (1831) ; 
ἜΝ ον I'acts regarding the Life of Shake- 
speare’’ (1835): editions of Shake- 
speare’s Works (1842 and 1853) ; ‘‘ Me- 
moirs of Actors in the Plays of Shake- 
speare’’ (1846) ; an edition of the ‘‘Works 
of Spenser’? (1862); and a ‘ Biblio- 
graphical Account of Rare Books” 
(1865). Reproductions of some of our 
curious old classie works, begun in 1866. 


Collins, John Churton (b. Bourton- 
on-the-Water, Gloucestershire, March 
26th, 1849). ‘* Bolingbroke and Voltaire 
in England’’ (1886) ; ‘‘Illustrations of 
Tennyson”’ (1891) ; ‘* The Study of Eng- 
lish Literature’? (1891); ‘‘ Jonathan 
Swift ’? (1893); ‘* Essays and Studies ’’ 
(1895). Has edited works of Cyril 
Tourneur, Milton, Lord Herbert of 
Cherbury, Dryden, ete. 


Collins, Mortimer (b. Plymouth, 
1827; ἃ. 1876). ‘*Summer Songs ”’ 
(1860) ; ‘* The Vivian Romance;” “* Who 
is the Heir?”’ (1865) ; “* Mv. Carrington ; ”’ 
‘Marquis and Merchant ;’’ ‘‘ The Ivory 
Gate’’ (1869); ‘‘The Inn of Strange 
Meetings, and Other Poems’’ (1871) ; 
“The Secret of Long Life’ (1871); 
“ὁ Miranda”? (1873); ‘‘ Sweet Anne 
Page;’’ ‘‘Two Plunges for a Pearl’’ 
(18/2); ‘‘Squire Silchester;’’ ‘‘ Trans- 
migration ;’’ ‘‘Frances;’’ ‘Princess Clar- 
ice;”? “‘Sweet and Twenty’’ (1874); 
“From Midnight to Midnight;’? ‘A 
Fight with Fortune; ’’ and ‘‘ Blacksmith 
and Scholar.”’? Sve his “ Life’? (1877). 


Collins, William (b. Chichester, De- 
cember 25th, 1721; d. June 12th, 17456). 
“Persian Eclogues and Odes’? (1742) ; 
“Verses to Sir Thomas Hanmer on his 
Edition of Shakespeare’s Works”? (1743) ; 
“* Odes on Several Descriptive and Alle- 
goric Subjects’? (1747) ; and ‘‘ An Ode 
Occasioned by the Death of Mr. Thom- 
son’? (1749). Poetical works, with 
Memoir by Langhorne, in 1765; with a 
prefatory essay by Mrs. Barbauld, in 
1797; with ‘* Life’? by Dr. Johnson, in 
1798 ; with biographical and critical 
notes by Dyce, in 1827; with a Memoir 
by Sir Harris Nicolas, in 1830; with a 
Memoir by Moy Thomas, in 1858. 


Collins, William Wilkie (b. Lon- 


don, January, 1824; d. 1889). ‘‘Anto- 
nina; or, the Fall of Rome”? (1850); 
‘*Rambles Beyond Railways; or, Notes 
on Cornwall’? (1851) ; ‘* Basil”? (1852) ; 
““ Mr. Wray’s Cash-box”’ (1852); ‘‘ Hide 
and Seek’? (1854); ‘* After Dark, and 
Other Stories’? (1856); ‘‘The Dead 
Secret ᾽ (1857) : ‘The Queen of Hearts ”’ 
(1859) ; ‘* The Womanin White” (1859) ; 
“No Name”? (1862) ; ‘‘ My Miscellanies ᾽ἢ 
(1863); ‘* Armadale’”’ (1866); ‘‘ The 
Moonstone ᾽᾿ (1868) ; ‘‘ Man and Wife ”’ 
(1870); ‘*‘ Poor Miss Finch”? (1872): 
““Miss or Mrs.? and Other Stories”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘ The New Magdalen ” (1873) ; 
“The Law and the Lady”’ (1875) ; ‘¢ Two 
Destinies ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Haunted Hotels ”’ 
(1879) ; “‘ Little Novels ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ The 
Legacy of Cain” (1888) ; ‘ Blind Love”’ 
(1890) ; two plays, ‘‘ The Lighthouse,”’ 
and ‘The Frozen Deep,’’ with dramatic 
versions of ““ Armadale,’’ “ΝΟ Name,”’ 
and ‘‘ The Moonstone.’’ 


Colman, George, the Elder (b. Flor- 
ence, 1733: d. 1794). ‘* Polly Honey- 
comb’? (1760); ‘‘The Jealous Wite’”’ 
(1761); ‘* The Clandestine Marriage ”’ 
(in conjunction with Garrick) (1766) ; a 
translation of Horace’s ‘De Arte 
Poetica’’ (1783), ete. See ‘* Random 
Records ”’ (1839), by his son George (b. 
October 21st, 1762; 4. October 26th, - 
1836). 

Colquhoun, Archibald Ross (b. off 
the Cape, March, 1848).  ‘‘ Across 
Chryse”’ (1883); ‘‘The Truth about 
Tonquin ”’ (1884) ; ‘‘Amongst the Shins’’ 
(1885) ; ‘‘Burmah and the Burmese”’ 
(1885) ; ‘* Report on the Railway Con- 
nection of Burmah and China”? (in col- 
laboration) (1888); ‘‘ Matabeleland ’’ 
(1894). 

Colvin, Sidney (b. Norwood, June 
18th, 1845). ‘* Children in Italian and 
English Design’? (1872); ‘* Landor’’ 
(1882) ; ‘‘ Keats”? (1886), ete. Editor of 
“ὁ Selections from the Writings of Walter 
Savage Landor,’’ in 1884; the Works of 
Rk. L. Stevenson (in progress), etc. 

Combe, George (b. Edinburch, Octo- 
ber 21st, 1788; ἃ. August 14th, 1858). 
ἐς Hssays on Phrenology ”’ (1819); ‘‘ The 
Constitution of Man’’ (1828) ; ‘f A Sys- 
tem of Phrenology”’ (1835); ‘‘ Notes on 
the United States’ (1841); ‘‘ Phreno- 
logy Applied to Painting and Sculpture,”’ 
“The Relation of Science to Religion,”’ 
“¢ Capital Punishment,”’ ‘‘ National Edu- 
cation,’? ‘‘The Currency. Question,’’ 
ete. See ‘‘ Life,”’ by C. Gibbon (1878). 


Congreve, William (b. Stafford, 


Conway 


1350 


Cowper 


February, 1670; d, January 19th, 1729). 
“The Old Bachelor’? (1693); ‘‘The 
Double Dealer’? (1694); ‘* Love for 
Love ’’ (1695); ‘‘ The Mourning Bride ἢ 
(1697); ‘*The Way of the World”’ 
(1700) ; and ‘* Poems” (1710), Editions 
of his Works appeared in 1710 and 1840, 
an introduction being written to the 
latter by Leigh Hunt. ‘ Memoirs of 
the Life, Writings, and Amours of 
William Congreve’’ was published by 
Charles Wilson in 1730. See Thack- 
eray’s ‘‘ English Humorists,’’? Johnson’s 
“Lives of the Poets,’ Macaulay’s 
“« Essays,’’ and Εἰ. Gosse’s ‘‘ Congreve.” 


Conway, Hugh, pseudonym of F. 
Fargus (Ὁ. 1840; ἃ. 1882). “ Called 
Back’? (1883); ‘‘ Dark Days’’ (1884); 
“A Family Affair’? (1885), and several 
posthumous novels, 


Conway, Sir William Martin, Knt, 
(Ὁ. Rochester, 1856). “" Zermatt Pocket- 
Book”’ (1881); ‘* Woodcutters of the 
Netherlands in the Fifteenth Century ”’ 


Institution, Liverpool ’’ (1884) ; ** Artis- 
tic Development of Reynolds and Gains- 
borough”’ (1885); ‘* Karly Flemish Ar- 
tists, etc.”? (1887); ‘* Literary Remains 
of Albrecht Diirer’’ (1889); ** Climber’s 
Guide to the Central Pennine Alps” 
(1890) ; ‘* Climber’s Guide to the Eastern 
Pennine Alps”? (1891); ‘‘ Dawn of Art 
in the Ancient World ”’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Climb- 
ing and Exploration in the Karakoram- 
Himalayas”? (1894); ‘*The Alps from 
End to End”’ (1895), ete. 


Cook, Dutton (b, 1832; d. 1883). 
“Paul Foster’s Daughter’? (1861) ; 
** Hobson’s Choice ᾽ (1866); ‘Over Head 
and Ears’? (1868) ; ‘‘ Doubleday’s Chil- 
dren” (1875). He was for many years 
a dramatic critic, and published ‘some 
volumes of collected essays on theatrical 
subjects. 


Cooper, Thomas (b. Leicester, March 
28th, 1805; d. July 15th, 1892). ‘The 
Purgatory of Suicides’? (1845); ‘* Wise 
Saws and Modern Instances’ (1845) ; 
“The Baron’s Yule Feast’? (1846); 
“The Condition of the People ’’ (1846) ; 
“« The Triumphs of Perseverance’? (1847); 
‘‘The Triumphs of Enterprise’’ (1847) ; 
“Alderman Ralph” (1853); ‘The 
Family Feud” (1854) ; ‘‘ The Bridge of 
History over the Gulf of Time” (1871) ; 
“‘The Verity of Christ’s Resurrection ἢ 
(1875), etc.- Edited in 1849 The Plain 
Speaker, and in 1850 Coopers Journal. 
See his Autobiography (1872). Poetical 
Works (1878). 


Corelli, Marie (b. 1864). ‘A Ro- 
mance of Two Worlds ᾽᾽ (1886) ; ‘* Ven- 
detta’? (1886); ‘Thelma’? (1887) ; 
“Ardath’’ (1889); ‘*My Wonderful 
Wire”? (1889); ““ Wormwood ”’ (1890) ; 
‘“The Soul of Lilith’? (1892); ‘* Barab- 
bas ’’ (1893). 

Cornwall, Barry. 
Bryan WALLER.) 


Couch, Arthur Thomas Quiller, 
““Q” (Ὁ. Bodmin, November 21st, 186%). 
‘*Dead Man’s Rock”’’ (1887); ‘The 
Astonishing History of Troy Town” 
(1888) ; ‘*'Lhe Splendid Spur ’’ (1889); 
‘*Noughts and Crosses’? (1891); ‘The 
Blue Pavilions”? (1891); ‘*The War- 
wickshire Avon’”’ (1892) ; ‘‘ [Saw Three 
Ships,’”’ ete. (1892); ‘* The Delectable 
Duchy ” (1893) ; ‘Green Bays” (1893). 
Edited ‘‘'The Golden Pomp ”’ (1895). 

Courthope, William John, C.B. 
(Ὁ. Malling, near Lewes, 1842). ‘The 
Tercentenary of Corydon’? (1864) ; 


(See Procter, 


| ‘Genius of Spenser ἢ (1868) ; ‘‘ Ludibra 
(1884) ; ‘*Gallery of Art of the Royal | 


Lune ᾽᾽ (1869); ‘ Paradise of Birds’’ 
(1870); ‘* Addison” (1884); ‘ Liberal 
Movement in English Literature”’ 
(1885) ; ‘‘ A History of English Poetry,’’ 
vol. i. (1895). 

Cowley, Abraham (Ὁ. London, 
1618; ἃ. July 28th, 1667). ““ Poetical 
Blossoms ”’ (1633) ; ‘* Naufragium Jocu- 
lare, Comeedia”’ (1638) ; ‘‘ Love’s Riddle, 
a Pastoral Comedy ’”’ (1638) ; ‘‘ A Satyr 
against Separativity ’’ (1642) ; ‘A Satyr: 
the Puritan and the Papist’’ (1643) ; 
‘““The Mistresse; or, Severall Copies of 
Love Verses’? (1647); ‘‘ Four Ages of 
England’? (1648); ‘‘The Guardian, a 
Comedie’’ (1650); ‘*Ode upon the 
Blessed Restoration and Returne of 
Charles the Second” (1660); ‘‘ A Pro- 
position for the Advancement of Experi- 
mental Philosophy ’’ (1661); ‘‘ A Vision 
concerning his late Pretended Highness, 
Cromwell the Wicked ”’ (1661) ; ‘* Plan- 
tarum Libri duo ”’ (1662) ; ‘* Verses upon 
Several Occasions’’ (1663) ; ‘* Cutter of 
Coleman Street, a Comedy’ (1663) ; 
‘“‘Poemata Latina’’ (1668); and “A 
Poem on the late Civil War’’ (1679). 
His complete Works, with ‘‘ Life,’ by 
Bishop Sprat, appeared in 1688. His 
select Works were edited by Bishop Hurd 
in 1772-77; his ‘‘ Prose Works, includ- 
ing his Essays in Prose and Verse,’’ 1826, 
See Johnson’s ‘‘ Lives of the Poets.”’ 


Cowper, William (b. Great Berk- 
hampstead, Hertford, November 26th, 
1731; d. Dereham, Norfolk, April 25th, 
1800). ‘* Anti- Thelypthora’’ (1781) ; 


Cox 


1351 


“Table Talk,”’ ‘“‘ Truth,’”’ “‘ Expostula- 
tion,’ and ‘The Progress of Error ”’ 
(1782) ; ‘John Gilpin,” a ballad (1782) ; 
““The Task’? (1784); ““ Tirocinium ”’ 
(1784) ; a translation of Homer (1791) ; 
Gay’s ‘Fables’? in Latin and ‘‘ The 
Castaway’ (1799). An edition of his 
Works was edited by Southey, and in- 
cludes his ‘‘ Life,’? Poems, Correspond- 
ence, and Translations complete. See 
-also Poems, edited by Dr. John Johnson 
(1808) ; ‘* The Works and Correspond- 
ence, with Life,’’ by Grimshaw (1836) ; 
“Poems and Translations,’’ with ‘‘ Life,’’ 
by the Rev. H. F. Cary (1839); 
“*Poems,’”’ with ‘‘ Life,’? by Sir Harris 
Nicholas ; and the editions of the Poems 
by Bell, Willmott, Benham (the ‘‘ Globe”’ 
edition), and C. C. Clarke (1872). For 
additional Biography, see ‘‘ Life and 
Posthumous Writings,’ by William 
Hayley (1803) ; ‘‘ Memoirs of the Early 
Life of William Cowper, written by 
Himself’? (1816); the “Life,” by 
Thomas Taylor (1835), and that by 
Wright (1892); also Cheever’s ‘ Lec- 
tures on Cowper ”’ (1856), 


Cox, Rev. Sir George William (b. 
1827). ‘‘ Poems, Legendary and His- 
torical’? (1850); ‘‘ Tales of Ancient 
Greece ’’ (1868) ; ‘‘ The Mythology of the 
Aryan Nations’’ (1870) ; ‘‘ A History of 
Greece”’ (1874) ; ‘‘ British Rule in India’’ 
(1881) ; ‘‘ A Concise History of England”’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘ Life of J. W. Colenso’’ (1888) ; 
etc. He also edited, with W. T. Brande, 
a Dictionary of Science, Literature, and 
Art. 


Cox, Samuel, D.D. (b. London, 
1826; ἃ. March 29th, 1893). ‘‘The 


Secret of Life ’’ (1866) ; ‘‘ Quest of the 
Chief Good”’ (1868) ; ‘‘ The Resurrec- 
tion’’ (1869); ‘‘An Expositor’s Note- 
book’? (1872) ; ‘The Pilgrim Psalms ”’ 
(1874) ; ‘‘ Biblical Expositions ’’ (1874) ; 
“Inductive Theology’? (1874); ‘‘ The 
Book of Ruth” (1876); ““ Salvator 
Mundi” (1877); ‘‘ Expository Essays 
and Discourses’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Commentary 
on the Book of Job’’ (1880); ‘‘ The 
Genesis of Evil,’’ etc. (1880); ‘‘ The 
Larger Hope”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Balaam”’ (1884) ; 
“ Miracles’? (1884); ““ Expositions ”’ 
(1885 and 1888) ; ‘‘ The House and its 
Builder,”’ etc. (1888). First editor of 
the Expositor. 

Crabbe, George (Ὁ. Aldborough, 
Suffolk, December 24th, 1754; d. Trow- 
bridge, Wiltshire, February 8th, 1852). 
“‘ Inebriety ”’ (1775) ; ‘‘ The Candidate ”’ 
(1779) ; “ὙΠΟ Library ’’ (1781); ‘‘ The 
Village’? (1783); ‘‘The Newspaper ”’ 


Crawford 


(1785) ; ‘* The Parish Register ’’ (1807) ; 
“The Borough” (1810); ‘‘ Tales in 
Verse”? (1812); ‘‘ Tales of the Hall”’ 
(1819) ; ““ Variation of Publick Opinion as 
it Respects Religion ”’ (1817) ; ‘‘ Outlines 
of Natural Theology”? (1840); and 
“Posthumous Sermons”’ (1850). ‘‘ Life,’’ 
by his son, in 1838. Sve also T. E. 
Kebbel’s ‘‘Life.’”’ For Criticism, sce 
Jefirey’s and Roscoe’s Essays. 

Craik, Mrs. (Sze Munocu, Dinan 
Maria.) 

Craik, George Lillie (b. Fifeshire, 
1798 ; d. June, 1866). ‘* The Pursuit of 
Knowledge under Difficulties’? (1831) ; 
“A History of English Literature ”’ 
(1844) ; ‘*A Manual of English Litera- 
ture ;”’ ‘* A History of the Origin of the 
English Language ;’’ ‘‘ Spenser and his 
Poetry ;”’ ‘‘ Bacon: his Writings and 
Philosophy ’’ (1846) ; ‘‘ The English of 
Shakespeare ;”’ ‘A History of British 
Commerce from the Earliest Time ;”’ 
“The Romance of the Peerage ’’ (1850) ; 
ete. 


Cranmer, Thomas (Ὁ. Aslacton, 
Notts., July 2nd, 1489; d. at stake, 
Oxford, July 21st, 1556). ‘‘ Catechismus, 
that is to say, a Shorte Instruction into 
Christian Religion for the singular Com- 
moditie and Profyte of Children and 
Yong People’’ (1548) ; ‘‘ A Defence of 
the True and Catholike Doctrine of the 
Sacrament, with a Confutation of Sundry 
Errors concernyng the Same”’ (1550) ; 
“* An Answer unto a Crafty and Sophis- 
tical Cavillation devised by Stephen 
Gardner, Byshop of Winchester, agaynst 
the Trewe and Godly Doctrine of the 
moste Holy Sacrament’? (1551) ; “‘ A Con- 
futation of Unwritten Verities, both bi 
the Holye Scriptures and most Auncient 
Autors”’ (1558) ; ete. ‘‘ Works”? edited 
by the Rev. H. Jenkyns (1834), and by 
the Rev. J. C. Cox, for the Parker Society. 
See Hook’s ‘‘ Lives of the Archbishops of 
Canterbury,” the ‘‘ Lives”? by Strype 
(1694), Gilpin (1784), Todd (1831), Cox 
(1844), and J. M. Norton (1863); and 
“¢ Vindieation of Cranmer’s Character,”’ 
by D’Aubigné (1849). 

Crashaw, Richard (b. London, circa 
1616; d. circa 1650), ‘* Epigrammata 
Sacra ”’ (1634); ‘‘Steps to the Temple ’’ 
(1646) ; ete. Works (1858). 


Crawford and Balcarres, Earl of, 
Alexander William, Lord Lindsay (b. 
October 16th, 1812; d. 1880). ‘‘ Letters 
on Egypt’ (1838); ‘‘ The Evidence and 
Theory of Christianity ’’ (1841) ; ‘‘ Pro- 
gression by Antagonism” (1846) ; 


Creasy 


‘“‘Sketches of the History of Christian 
Art’? (1847); ‘‘The Lives of the Lind- 
says’’ (1849); ‘‘The Case of Gorham 
wv. the Bishop of Exeter ’’ (1850) ; ‘‘ Scep- 
ticism and the Church of England”’ 
(1861); ‘‘icumenicity”’ (1870); ‘* Argo”’ 
(1876) ; ete. 

Creasy, Sir Edward (b. 1812; d. 
1878). ‘The Fifteen Decisive Battles of 
the World” (1851); ‘*The Rise and 
Progress of the British Constitution ”’ 
(1853) ; ‘‘ The History of the Ottoman 
Turks’? (1854-56); ‘‘The History of 
England from the Earliest to the Present 
Time”? (1869-70) ; ‘‘ The Imperial and 
Colonial Institutions of the Britannic 
Empire ”’ (1872). 

Creighton, Right Rev. Mandell, 
D.D. (Ὁ. Carlisle, 1843). ‘‘ Age of Eliza- 
beth ”’ (1876) ; ‘* Life of Simon de Mont- 
fort”? (1876) ; ‘‘The Tudors and the 
Reformation ”’ (1876) ; ‘‘ History of the 
Papacy during the Period of the Refor- 
mation ”’ (1882-6) ; “Α Life of Thomas 
Wolsey’? (1888); ‘‘ Carlisle’? (1889) ; 
‘‘Persecution and Tolerance’ (1895). 
Editor of English Historical Review. 

Crockett, S. R. (b. Duchrae, New 
Galloway, 1859). ‘* Dulce Cor’? (1886) ; 
“The Stickit Minister,’ ete. (1893) ; 
«ΠῚ Raiders’? (1894); ‘‘Mad Sir 
Uchtred’’ (1894); “ΤΙ Lilac Sun- 
bonnet’? (1894); ‘‘ The Play Actress ”’ 
(1894) ; ‘* Bog-Myrtle and Peat ’’ (1895) ; 
ete. 

Croker, John Wilson (b. Galway, 
December 20th, 1780; ἃ, Moulsey, Hamp- 
ton Court, August 10th, 1857). ‘* Fami- 
liar Epistles on the Irish Stage ᾽ (1803) ; 
‘* An Intercepted Letter from Canton”’ 
(1805); **Songs of Trafaigar’’ (1806) ; 
“Α Sketch of Ireland, Past and Present’ 
(1807) ; ‘‘ The Battle of ‘Talavera ”’ 
(1809) ; ‘* The Battle of Albuera”’ (1811); 
voluminous contributions to the Quar- 
terly Review, and annotated edition of 
Boswell’s ‘* Lite of Johnson.”’ 


Croker, Thomas Crofton (b. 1798; 
ἃ. 1854). ‘* Researches in the South of 
Treland”’ (1824); ‘‘ The Fairy Legends 
and Traditions of Ivreland’’ (1825) ; 
“¢ Legends of the Lakes ᾽ (1828) ; ‘‘ Daniel 
O’Rourke’”’ (1828) ; ‘‘ Barney Mahoney”’ 
(1832) ; ‘‘ My Village versus Our Village”’ 
(1832) ; ‘‘The Popular Songs of Ireland ἢ 
(1839) ; ‘The Tour of M. Boullaye le 
Gour in Treland”’ (1844). 


Crowe, Mrs. Catherine (b. 1800; d. 
1876). ‘*Susan Hopley’”’ (1841) ; ‘‘ Men 
and Women”? (1849) ; ‘* Lily Dawson ”’ 
(1847); ‘*Pippie’s Warning’ (1848) ; 


1352 


Dale 


“The Night Side of Nature’? (1848) ; 
“ Light and Darkness ᾽᾽ (1850) ; ‘*‘ Adven- 
tures of a Beauty” (1852) ; ‘* The Last 
Portrait ᾽ (1871). 


Cruden, Alexander (b. Aberdeen, 
May 3lst, 1700; d. Islington, November 
Ist, 1770). ‘* A Complete Concordance 
to the Holy Scriptures’? (1737); “A 
Scripture Dictionary ; or, Guide to the 
Holy Scriptures ’’ (1770) ; ete. 


Cumberland, Richard (b. Cam- 
bridge, February 19th, 1752; d. London, 
May 7th, 1811). ‘*The West Indian ”’ 
(1711); **The Wheel of Fortune ;”’ 
“The Jew;”’ and “The Fashionable 
Lover ;”’ three Novels, entitled ‘* Arun- 
del’? (1789), ‘Henry’ (1795), and 
** John de Lancaster ;’’ and some poems : 
“Calvary; or, the Death of Christ’’ 
(1792); ‘*The Exodiad’’ (1807-8); and 
‘*Retrospection’’ (1811); ‘‘ Anecdotes 
of Eminent Spanish Painters ’’ (1782) ; 
“The Observer’? (1785). Posthumous 
Dramatic Works, edited by Jansen, in 
1813, The ‘* Memoirs of Richard Cum- 
berland, written by Himself,’’ appeared 
in 1806, 


Cunningham, Allan (b. Blackwood, 
near Dumtries, 1784; d. October 29th, 
1842), ‘* Memoirs of Mark Macrabin, 
the Cameronian;’’? ‘‘Sir Marmaduke 
Maxwell;’’ ‘‘ Traditional Tales of the 
English and Scottish Peasantry ;”’ ‘* Paul 
Jones;”’ ‘* Sir Michael Scott ;’’ ‘‘ Lord 
Roldan;”’ ‘*The Maid of Elvar;”’ 
‘““Lives of Eminent British Painters, 
Sculptors, and Architects; ’’ ‘‘ A Life of 
David Wilkie;’’ and an edition of 
Burns, with memoir. ‘' Poems and 
Songs ’’ edited by Peter Cunningham in 
1847. See his ‘‘ Life’? by David Hogg 
(1875). 

Cunningham, Peter (b. Pimlico, 
April 7th, 1816; d. May, 1869). “A 
Handbook to London ;’’a ** Life of Drum- 
mond of Hawthornden ;”’ a “ Handbook 
to Westminster Abbey;” a ‘‘ Life of 
Tnigo Jones;’’ ‘‘ Modern London;”’ a 
“Memoir of J. M. W. Turner;”’ and 
“The Story of Nell Gwynne ;”’ besides 
editions of ‘‘ The Songs of England and 
Scotland ;’’ Campbell’s ‘‘ Specimens of 
the English Poets ;*’ the Works of Oliver 
Goldsmith; Johnson’s ‘‘ Lives of the 
Poets;’’ Massinger’s Works; and the 
“* Letters’? of Horace Walpole. 


D 


Dale, Robert Wm., D.D., LL.D. 
(b. London, December Ist, 1829; 


Dalling 


1353 


Davenant 


4. Birmingham, March 13th, 1895). 
“Lite of John Angell James’’ (1861) ; 
“ Protestantism ’’ (1874) ; ‘The Atone- 
ment;’’ ‘‘The Epistle to the Ephe- 
sians’’ (1882) ; “‘A Manual of Congre- 
gational Principles’? (1884); ‘‘ Laws 
of Christ for Common Life’’ (1884) ; 
‘‘Impressions of Australia’? (1889) ; 
“The Living Christ and the Four Gos- 
pels’”’ (1890); ‘‘The Fellowship of 
Christ ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Christian Doctrine ”’ 
(1894) ; ete. Edited the Congregationalist. 


Dalling and Bulwer, Lord (b. 
1804; d. 1872). ‘*Ode on the Death of 
Napoleon”? (1822); ‘‘The Autumn in 
Greece ”’ (1826) ; ‘The Monarchy of the 
Middle Classes’’ (1834) ; ‘‘A Lite of Lord 
Byron” (1838) ; ‘‘ Historical Characters ἢ 
(1867) ; ‘‘ Life of Lord Palmerston ”’ 
(1871-74) ; ‘Sir Robert Peel’ (1874). 


Daniel, Samuel (b. Taunton, 1562 ; 
ἃ. Beckington, near Frome, Somerset- 
shire, October 14th, 1619). ‘‘ Delia and 
Rosamond ᾽ (1592); ‘‘ The Civil Wars 
between the Two Houses of Lancaster 
and York’ (1595-1609) ; ‘‘ Philotas ; ’’ 
“Cleopatra”? (1599); ‘‘ Hymen’s Tri- 
umph’”’ (1615); ete. Works in 1623, 


D’Arblay, Madame (Ὁ. King’s Lynn, 
1752; d. Bath, 1840). ‘‘ Evelina ”’ 
(1778) ; ‘‘ Cecilia ᾽" (1782) ; ‘‘ Edwin and 
Elgitha’’ (1795); ““ Camilla’? (1796) ; 
““The Wanderer; or, Female Difficulties’’ 
(1814); and ‘‘ Memoirs of Dr. Charles 
Burney ”’ (1832). Her “ Diary,”’ edited 
by her niece, was published in 1846. 
For Biography and Criticism, see Jeaffre- 
son’s ** Novels and Novelists;’’? Miss 
Kavanagh's ‘‘ English Women of Let- 
ters ;’? and Macaulay’s ‘‘ Essays.”’ 


Darwin, Charles Robert (b. Feb- 
ruary 12th, 1809; d. April 19th, 1882). 
“ Journal of Researches in Various Coun- 
tries visited by H.M.S. Beagle in 1831- 
36;° “The Structure and Distribution 
of Coral Reefs’? (1842); ‘‘ Geological 
Observations on Volcanic Islands ”’ 
(1844); ‘*Geological Observations on 
South America’’ (1846) ; ‘‘ Monograph 
of the Family Cirrhipedia’’ (1851) ; 
“The Fossil Lepodide ot Great Britain ”’ 
(1855); ‘The Origin of Species by 
means of Natural Selection’? (1859) ; 
“fertilisation of Orchids’ (1862) ; 
“‘Domesticated Animals and Cultivated 
Plants ; or, the Principles of Variation, 
Inheritance, Reversion, Crossing, Inter- 
breeding, and Selection under Domesti- 
cation ’’ (1867) ; ‘‘ The Descent of Man, 
and Selection in Relation to Sex’? (1871) ; 
‘“The Expression of Emotion in Man 


and Animals’’ (1872) ; ““ Movements and 
Habits of Climbing Plants’? (1875) ; 
“ὁ Tnsectivorous Plants’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Effects 
of Cross-Fertilisation in Plants ’’ (1876) ; 
‘Formation of Vegetable Mould”’ (1881). 
See Krause’s ‘Charles Darwin, und 
sein Verhiltniss zu Deutschland”? (1885) ; 
and ‘‘ Lives’? by J. G. Romanes (1882), 
Grant Allen (1885), Francis Darwin 
(1887), and T. G. Bettany (1887). 


Darwin, Erasmus (b. Elton, Not- 
tinghamshire, December 12th, 1731; d. 
Derby, August 18th, 1802). ‘‘ The 
Botanic Garden’’ (1791) ; ‘‘ Zoonomia : 
or, the Laws of Organic Life’? (1794- 
96); ‘* A Plan for the Conduct of Female 
Edueation in Boarding Schools ’’ (1797) ; 
‘*Phytologia ; or, the Philosophy of 
Agriculture and Gardening’’ (1799); 
‘*The Temple of Nature ; or, the Origin 
of Society ’’ (1803) ; and ‘* The Shrine of 
Nature.”’ ‘‘ Works ”’ in 1809. ‘‘Memoirs, 
with Anecdotes and Criticisms,’’? by Miss 
Seward in 1804; Krause’s ‘‘ Erasmus 
Darwin ”’ (translated, 1829). 

Dasent, Sir George Webbe (b. 
St. Vincent, 1820). ‘‘The Prose or 
Younger Edda” (1842); ‘‘ Theophilus 
Eutychianus, from the original Greek, 
in Icelandic, Low German, and other 
Languages’? (1845) ; ‘‘ The Norseman in 
Iceland”? (1855); ‘‘ Popular Tales from 
the Norse, with au Introductory Essay ”’ 
(1859); “ὙΠΟ Story of Gisli, from the 
Icelandic’”’ (1866); ‘‘ Annals of an 
Eventful Life’? (1870); ‘‘ Three to 
One” (1872); ‘‘Jest and Earnest ”’ 
(1873) ; *‘ Tales from the Fjeld’’ (1873) ; 
“Half a Life’? (1874); and ‘The 
Vikings of the Baltic ’’ (1874). 

Davenant, Sir William (b. Ox- 
ford, 1605; d. London, April 7th, 1668). 
“The Tragedy of Albovine, King of 
the Lombards’? (1629); ‘‘The Cruel 
Brother ’’ (1630) ; ‘‘The Just Ttalian ”’ 
(1630); ‘‘The Temple of Love”’ 
(1634) ; “ΤῊ Triumphs of the Prince 
@Amour” (1635); ‘The Platonick 
Lovers’’ (1636); ‘‘ The Witts’’ (1636) ; 
“ Britannia Triumphans ”’ (1637) ; ‘‘ Ma- 
dagascar, and other Poems’’ (1638); 
“ Salmacida Spolia ”’ (1639) ; *‘ The Un- 
fortunate Lovers’’ (1643); ‘‘ London, 
King Charles, his Augusta, or City 
Royal” (1648); ‘* Love and Honour” 
(1649) ; ‘‘ Gondibert, an Heroic Poem ἢ 
(1651); ‘‘ The Cruelty of the Spaniards 
in Peru’’ (1658) ; ‘* A Panegyric to his 
Excellency the Lerd General Monck ”’ 
(1659); ‘* The History of Sir Francis 
Drake’’ (1659); ‘‘ A Poem on his Sacred 
Majesties Most Happy Return to His 


Davids 13: 


4 Denham 


Dominions’? (1660); ‘‘The Siege of 
Rhodes”? (1663) ; ‘* The Rivals ’? (1668) ; 
and ‘*The Man’s a Master’ (1668). 
His Works were printed collectively in 
1672-73. See Wood’s ‘ Athenze Oxoni- 
enses.”’ 


Davids, Thomas William Rhys, 
Ph.D., LL.D. (b. Colchester, May 12th, 
1843). ‘* Buddhism” (1877) ; ‘* Budd- 
hist Birth Stories’’ (1880) ; ‘* Origin and 
Growth of Religion as illustrated by 
Buddhism * (1881), ete. 


Davidson, John (b. Banhead, Ren- 
frewshire, April 11th, 1857). ‘* Bruce” 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Plays”? (1889) ; ‘‘In a Music- 
hall,’’ ete. (1891) ; ‘* Perfervid’’ (1891) ; 
‘The Great Men and a 
Novelist’? (1891); ‘Fleet Street Ec- 
logues”’ (1893); ‘*A Random Itiner- 
ary’’ (1893); ‘‘ Sentences and Para- 
graphs ”’ (1893) ; ‘ Baptist Lake’? (1894) ; 
“Ballads and Songs’ (1894); ‘‘ The 
Wonderful Mission of Earl Lavender ”’ 
(1894) ; ‘* Collected Edition of Plays’’ 
(1894). 

Davidson, Samuel, D.D., LL.D. 
(Ὁ. Ballymena, Ireland, 1807). “ὁ Sacred 
Hermeneutics”? (1843); ‘* The Ecele- 
siastical Polity of the New ‘Testa- 
ment’? (1848 and 1858); ‘An Intro- 
duction to the New Testament’ (1848) ; 
‘““The Interpretation of the Bible” 
(1856); ‘*The English Old Testament 
Version Revised’? (1873); an English 
version of Tischendort’s ‘‘ New Testa- 
ment”? (1875); ‘‘The Canon of the 
Bible ’’ (1877); *‘ The Doctrine of Last 
Things” (1882). 

Davies, Rev. John Llewelyn (b. 
Chichester, February 26th, 1826), has 
translated, conjointly with Dr. Vaughan, 
“The Republic’? of Plato; edited the 
Epistles to the Ephesians, Colossians, 
and Philemon ; and written ‘‘ The Mani- 
festation of the Son of God” (15864) ; 
“ Morality according to the Sacrament of 
the Lord’s Supper ’’ (1865) ; **The Gospel 
and Modern Life’’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Theology 
and Morality’? (1878);  ‘* Warnings 
against Superstition’? (1874); ‘‘ Order 
and Growth ”’ (1891), ete. 

De Tabley, John Byrne Leicester, 
Lord (Ὁ. 1835). ‘‘ Philoctetes ’’ (1866) ; 
‘* Rehearsals’? (1870);  ‘‘ Searching 
the Net ’’ (1878) ; ‘‘ The Soldier of For- 
tune ’’ (1876); ‘‘ Guide to the Study of 
Book-Plates’’ (1880); ‘‘ Poems, Dra- 
matic and Lyrical ’’ (1893 and 1895), 


De Vere, Aubrey Thomas (b. 1814). 
“The Waldenses’’ (1842); “Ἢ Searches 
after Proserpine ’’ (1843); ‘‘ English 


Practical | 


Misrule and Irish Misdeeds’’ (1848) ; 
‘“Poems, Miscellaneous and Sacred ”’ 
(1853) ; ** The Church Establishment of 
Treland’’ (1867) ; ** The Church Settle- 
ment of Ireland’’ (1868) ; ‘* The Legends 
of St. Patrick’’ (1872); ‘‘ Legends of 
the Saxon Saints’’ (1879); ‘* Constitu- 
tional and Unconstitutional Political 
Action’? (1881); ‘Foray of Queen 
Meade, and other Legends of Ireland's 
Heroic Age’’ (1882); ‘St. Peter’s 
Chains’? (1888); ‘* Medieval Records 
and Sonnets "ἢ (1893) ; “ Religious Prob- 
lems of the Nineteenth Century” (1893). 


Defoe, Daniel (b. London, 1661; ἃ, 
London, 1731). ‘* Presbytery Rough- 
drawn ”’ (1683); ‘‘A Tract against the 
Proclamation of the Repeal of the Penal 
Laws ”’ (1687); “Α Tract upon the Dis- 
ες Power’ (1689); ‘Essay on 

rojects ’ (1697); “Ὑπὸ True-Born 
Englishman” (1701); ‘*The Shortest 
Way with Dissenters’? (1702); ‘A 
Hymn to the Pillory”’ (1703) ; ** Jure 
Divino”? (1706); ‘*A History of the 
Union”’ (1709); ‘‘ Reasons against the 
Succession of the House of Hanover’”’ 
(1713); ‘* Appeal to Honour and Jus- 
tice’ (1715); ‘ Robinson Crusoe ” 
(1719); ‘* Captain Singleton”? (1720) ; 
“Duncan Campbell’? (1720); ‘* Moll 
Flanders’? (1721); ‘‘Colonel Jack ”’ 
(1722) ; ‘‘ Journal of the Plague ”’ (1722); 
“‘Memoirs of 4 Cavalier’’ (1723); ‘‘ Rox- 
ana’? (1724); ‘‘ New Voyage Round the 
World ”’ (1725); “ὙΠῸ Lite of Captain 
Carleton ’’ (1728), ete. Works in 1841. 
“Life, and Recently-discovered Writ- 
ings,’ by Lee, in 1869. See also the 
Biographies by Chalmers (1790), Wilson 
(1830), Forster (1855), Chadwick (1859), 
and Wright (1894). For Criticism, see 
Foster’s ‘‘ Essays.’’ Masson’s ‘‘ British 
Novelists,’ Kingsley’s introduction to 
his edition of ‘* Robinson Crusoe,’’ 
Roscoe’s ‘‘ Essays,’’ Lamb’s ‘‘ Works,’’ 
Scott’s ‘‘ Biographies,’’ Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours 
in a Library,’’ and Minto’s monograph 
(1879), ete. 


Dekker, Thomas (Ὁ. circa 1570; ἃ. 
1637). ‘‘ Phaeton’’ (1597); ‘‘ Old For- 
tunatus ’? (1600) ; ‘‘Shoemaker’s Holi- 
day ’’ (1600) ; ‘‘ Satiro-mastix ’’ (1602), 
etc. Works (1873). 


Denham, Sir John (b. Dublin, 1615; 
ἃ. March, 1668). ‘‘ Cooper’s Hill,”’ a 
poem (1642); and ‘The Sophy,” a 
tragedy (1642). Poems and Transla- 
tions collected in 1709 and 1719. See 
Wood’s ‘Athenz Oxonienses’’ and 
Johnson’s ‘‘ Lives of the Poets.’’ 


Dibdin 


ww 


Disraeli 


ce 


Dibdin, Thomas Frognall, D.D. 
(Ὁ. Calcutta, 1776; ἃ. November 18th, 
1847). ‘‘ Poems’ (1797) ; ‘‘ An Intro- 
duction to the Knowledge of Rare and 
Valuable Editions of the Greek and 
Latin Classics’? (1803); ‘‘ Bibliomania, 
or Book Madness’’ (1811); ‘‘ Biblio- 
theca Spenseriana’’ (1814); ‘‘The Bib- 
liographical Decameron ; or, Ten Days’ 
Pleasant Discourse upon Illuminated 
Manuscripts, ete.’? (1817); ‘‘Sermons”’ 
(1820-25) ; ‘* The Bibliographical, Anti- 
quarian, and Picturesque Tour in France 
and Germany’’ (1821) ; ‘‘ Aides Althorpi- 
ane’? (1822); ‘‘ The Library Companion’”’ 
(1824) ; ‘‘ La Belle Marianne: a Tale of 
Truth and Woe”’ (1824); ‘‘ Sunday 
Library ’’ (1831) ; ‘‘ Bibliophobia”’ (1832) ; 
“‘A Bibliographical, Antiquarian, and 
Picturesque Tour in the Northern Coun- 
ties of England and of Scotland’’ (1838) ; 
and editions of the works of Ames, Sir 
Thomas More, Thomas ἃ Kempis, Féne- 
lon, and others. Sve his ‘‘ Reminiscences 
of a Literary Life ’’ (1836). 


Dickens, Charles (Ὁ.  Jandport, 
Hampshire, February 7th, 1812; d. 
Gadshill, June 9th, 1870). ‘‘ Sketches 
by Boz’ (1886); ‘‘ The Pickwick 


Papers’ (1836) ; ‘‘ Sunday under Three 
Heads”? (1836) ; “ὙΠῸ Strange Gentle- 
man’”’ (1836) ; ‘‘ The Village Coquettes ”’ 
(1836) ; ‘Oliver Twist ’’ (1838) ; ‘‘ Nich- 
olas Nickleby ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The Old Curi- 
osity Shop”? (1849) ; ‘‘ Barnaby Rudge ”’ 
(1840) ;  ‘‘ American Notes’? (1842) ; 
“ Martin Chuzzlewit’’ (1843) ; ‘‘ A Christ- 
mas Carol’’ (1843); ‘‘The Chimes”’ 
(1844); ‘*‘ Dombey and Son”’ (1846) ; 
“ΤῊ Haunted Man”’ (1847); ‘‘ David 
Copperfield ”’ (1849) ; ‘* The Child’s His- 
tory of England” (1851); ‘‘ Bleak 
House’’ (1852) ; ‘‘ Hard Times’”’ (1854) ; 
‘“‘Little Dorrit’’ (1855); ‘‘A Tale of 
Two Cities’? (1859) ; ‘‘ Hunted Down ”’ 
(1860) ; ‘‘ The Uncommercial Traveller ᾽ἢ 
(1860) ; ““ Great Expectations ”’ (1861) ; 
“ΟΣ Mutual Friend’’ (1864); ‘‘ The 
Holiday Romance’’ (1868); ‘‘ The 
Mystery of Edwin Drood,”’ unfinished 
(1870) ; ‘“‘ Speeches’? (1871); and vari- 
ous Christmas numbers, or portions of 
Christmas numbers, in 4// the Year 
Round. ‘Letters’? (1879). For Bio- 
graphy, 866 ‘‘ A Story of his Life,’ by 
Theodore Taylor (1870); the ‘‘ Life’’ by 
R. S. Mackenzie (1870) ; and the ‘‘ Life”’ 
by John Forster, completed in 1873; 
“Charles Dickens,’? by Mary Dickens 
(1885) ; and T. Marzial’s Biography 
(1887). See also ‘‘Sketch”’ and ‘* Things 
and People”? by G. A. Sala; ‘‘ Yester- 


days with Authors,’ by J. T. Fields. 
For Criticism, see ‘‘ Essays’? by George 
Brimley ; George Stott in Zhe Contem- 
porary Review for February, 1869 ; 
Jeaffreson’s ‘‘ Novels and Novelists ;”’ 
Masson’s ‘‘ Novelists and their Styles ;”’ 
Buchanan’s ‘‘ Master Spirits ;’? Horne’s 
ΚΕΝ ον Spirit of the Age;’’ The IVest- 
minster Review tor July, 1864, and April, 
1865 ; Canning’s ‘* Philosophy of Charles 
Dickens ”’ (1880), ete. 

Dilke, Sir Charles Wentworth 
(Ὁ. 1848). ‘‘ Greater Britain’? (1868) ; 
“The Fall of Prince Florestan of Mo- 
naco ’’ (1874); ‘The Eastern Question ’’ 
(1878); ‘* European Politics’? (1887) ; 
“The British Army ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Problems 
of Greater Britain ”’ (1890) ; ““ Imperial 
Defence’’ (part author) (1892). Has 
edited ‘* The Papers of a Critic’’ by his 
grandfather. 

Dilke, Lady Emilia Frances (for- 
merly Mrs. Mark Pattison, γέ. Strong). 
“The Renaissance of Art in France’’ 
(1879) ; ““ Claude Lorraine,’’? in French 
(1884) ; ‘‘The Shrine of Death, οἷο. 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Art in the Modern State’’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘The Shrine of Love,” etc. 
(1891). Edited Memoirs of Mark Patti- 
son (1885). 

Disraeli, Benjamin, Karl of Beacons- 
field (Ὁ. London, December 21st, 1804 ; 
ἃ. London, April 19th, 1881). ‘* Vivian 
Grey’”’ (1826 and 1827); ‘‘The Voyage 
of Captain Popanilla’’ (1825) ; ‘*The 
Young Duke” (1831) ; ‘‘Contarimi Flem- 
ing ’’ (1832) ; ‘‘The Wondrous Tale of 
Alroy’’ (1833); ‘The Rise of Iskan- 
der’’ (1838) ; ‘‘ Ixion in Heaven”’ (1833) ; 
“The Revolutionary Epic” (1854) ; 
‘“‘ Vindication of the English Constitu- 
tion ᾽᾽ (1835) ; ‘* Letters of Runnymede ”’ 
(1835); ‘‘ Henrietta Temple’’ (1837) ; 
ἐς Venetia’? (1837) ; ‘‘ Alarcos,’’ a tra- 
gedy (1839); ‘‘ Coningsby ; or, the New 
Generation’’ (1844); ‘‘Sybil; or, the 
Two Nations’’ (1845) ; ‘‘ Tancred ; or, 
the New Crusade’”’ (1847); ‘‘ Lord 
George Bentinck, a Political Bio- 
graphy ’’ (1851) ; ‘‘ Church and Queen : 
Speeches’’ (1865) ; ““ Constitutional Re- 
form: Speeches” (1866) ; ‘‘ Parliamentary 
Reform: Speeches’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Speeches 
on Conservative Policy’ (1870) ; ‘‘ Lo- 
thair’’ (1871); ‘‘ Address at Glasgow 
University’? (1873) ; and ‘‘Endymion”’ 
(1881). See ‘‘ Life’ by O’Connor (1879), 
Brandes (1880), Clarigny (1880), Foggo 
(1881), and Froude (1890) ; McCarthy’s 
“History of Our Own Time”’ (1878- 
80); Clayden’s ‘‘ England under Lord 
Beaconsfield’ (1879); ‘‘The Selected 


D’Israeli 


Speeches of Lord Beaconsfield,’’ edited 
by T. E. Kebbel. 


D'Israeli, Isaac (b. Enfield, 1766; 
d. Bradenham House, Bucks, 1548). 


‘A Poetical Epistle on the Abuse of | 
| June 26th, 1702 ; ἃ. Lisbon, October 26th, 


Satire ’’ (1789) ; ‘‘ A Defence of Poetry ᾽᾽ 
(1790) ; ‘* Vaurien ᾽ (1797); ‘* Romances”’ 
(1799) ; ‘‘ Narrative Poems’ (1803) ; 
“ Plim-Flams ”’ (1805); ‘‘ Despotism; or, 


the Fall of the Jesuits’? (1811) ; ‘‘ The | 


History of Cupid and Psyche ”’ (1813) ; 
“The Genius of Judaism’ (1833) ; 
“The Crisis Examined ᾽ (1834) ; and a 
few others, besides his 
works, ‘‘ The Curiosities of Literature ᾽ἢ 


better-known | 


(1791, 1793, 1823); ‘* The Calamities of | 


Authors’? (1812); “ὙΠῸ Quarrels 
Authors’? (1814) ; ‘‘ The Literary Cha- 
racter’’ (1816) ; and ‘* The Literary and 
Political Character of James I.’’ (1816). 
‘* Life,’’ by his son, in library edition of 
the ‘‘ Curiosities.”’ 

Dixon, William Hepworth (b. 
Newton Heath, Yorkshire, June 30th, 
1821; ἃ. December, 1879). ‘* John 
Howard, a Memoir ”’ (1849) ; ‘‘ A Life of 
William Penn”? (1851) ; ‘‘ Robert Blake, 
Admiral and General, at Sea ’’ (1852) ; 
** The Personal History of Lord Bacon’’ 
(1860); ‘‘ The Holy Land”’ (1865); ‘‘ New 
America’’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Spiritual Wives ”’ 
(1868) ; ‘‘ Free Russia ’’ (1870); ‘‘ Her 
Majesty’s Tower’ : (1871); ‘‘ The 
Switzers’’ (1872); ‘‘ Two Queens ”’ 
(1879); ‘‘ White Conquest’? (1875) ; 
“Diana, Lady Lyle’’ (1877); ‘‘ Ruby 
Grey ’’ (1878); ‘‘ Royal Windsor”’ (1878); 
“British Cyprus’? (1879). Edited the 
Atheneun. 


Dobell, Sydney (b. near London, 
1824; ἃ. November 14th, 1874). ‘* The 
Roman ᾽ (1850); ‘‘ Sonnets on the War ”’ 
(with Alex. Smith, 1853) ;. ‘‘ Balder’’ 
(1854) ; ‘‘ England in Time of War” 
(1856); ‘‘ Parliamentary Reform’’ (1865); 
“FEngland’s Day’ (1871); ““ Poetical 
Works ’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Thoughts on Art, 
Philosophy, and Religion’? (1876). 
* Life’? (1878). Sve also John Nichol’s 
‘‘Tntroductory Notice and Memoirs to 
the Poetical Works of Sydney Dobell.”’ 


Dobson, Henry Austin (b. Ply- 
mouth, January 18th, 1840). ‘ Vig- 
nettes in Rhyme’”’ (1873); ‘‘ Vers de 
Société”? (1873) ; ‘‘ Proverbs in Porce- 
lain ’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ The Life of Fielding ”’ 
in the English Men of Letters series ; 
“The Life of Hogarth ’’ (1879); ‘‘ Old- 
World Idyls’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ At the Sign of 
the Lyre ᾽᾿ (1885) ; ‘‘ The Life of Steele ”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Life of Oliver Goldsmith ”’ 


of | 


1556 


Doran 


(1888) ; ‘‘ Poems on Several Occasions ”’ 
(1889) ; ‘* Four Frenchwomen ”’ (18:0) ; 
“Horace Walpole’ (1890); ‘‘Eighteenth 
Century Vignettes’? (1892 and 1895). 


Doddridge, Philip, D.D. (Ὁ. London, 


1751). ‘*Some Remarkable Passagesin the 
Life of Colonel James Gardiner ’’ (1747); 
‘*The Rise and Progress of Religion in 
the Soul’’ (1750); ‘‘The Family Ex- 
positor ’’ (1760) ; ‘‘ A Course of Lectures 
on the Principal Subjects in Pneu- 
matology, Ethics, and Divinity ’’ (1794) ; 
and ‘‘Sermons on Various Subjects”’ 
(1820). ‘* Memoirs,’”? by Job Orton 
(1766) ; ‘ Life’? (1831). 

Dods, Professor Marcus, D.D. (b. 
Belford, Northumberland, 1834). ‘* The 
Prayer that Teaches to Pray” (1863) ; 
‘“«The Epistles to the Seven Churches ”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘Israel’s Iron Age’’ (1874) ; 
‘*“Mohammed, Buddha, and Christ’’ 
(1877); “ὙΠῸ Parables of Our Lord” 
(1886) ; ‘‘ An Introduction to the New 
Testament’? (1888); ‘* Erasmus and 
other Essays’ (1891). 

Donaldson, Principal James, 
LL.D. (b. Aberdeen, April 26th, 1831). 
** Critical History of Christian Literature 
and Doctrine from the Death of the 
Apostles to the Nicene Council ”’ (1864- 
66), ete. Co-editor of ‘*The Ante- 
Nicene Christian Library.”’ 

Donne, John, D.D. (b. London, 1573; 
d. March 31st, 1631). ‘‘The Pseudo- 
Martyr’’ (1610); ‘‘Conclave Ignatii; 
or, Ignatius, his Conclave ”’ (1611) ; ‘‘An 
Elegy on the Untimely Death of the 
Incomparable Prince Henry’ (1613) ; 
** Devotions upon Emergent Occasions, 
and Severall Steps in my Sickness’’ (1624); 
“An Anatomy of the World”’ (1625) ; 
“Ε Polydoron ; or, a Miscellania of Morall, 


Philosophical, and Theological Sen- 
tences’’ (1631); ‘‘ Death’s Duell ” 


(1632): ‘A Sheaf of Miscellany Epi- 
grams’’ (1632); ‘‘ Juvenilia; or, Cer- 
taine Paradoxes and Problems’’ (1633) ; 
“Bia Thanatos’”’ (1644); ‘‘ Essays in 
Divinity ’’ (1651) ; ‘‘ Letters to Severall 
Persons of Honour’’ (1651) ; and other 
‘* Works,”’ collected in 1635, and repub- 
lished with a ‘‘ Memoir’? by Dean Al- 
ford in 1839.  ‘‘Sermons,’’ with a 
* Life’? by Izaak Walton, in 1640-49. 


Doran, John, LL.D. (b. 1807; d. 
January 25th, 1878). ‘‘ History and 
Antiquities of the Town and Borough 
of Reading” (1835) ; ‘‘ Filia Dolorosa, 
Memoirs of the Duchess of Angouléme”’ 
(1852) ; Anthon’s ‘‘ Anabasis of Xeno- 


Dowden 


1357 


Dryden 


phon ”’ (1858) ; “ΔΑ Life of Dr. Young ”’ 
(1854) ; *‘ Table Traits, and Something 
on Them”? (1854) ; ‘‘ Habits and Men”’ 
(1855) ; ‘‘ Lives of the Queens of the 
House of Hanover’ (1855) ; ‘‘ Knights 
and their Days’? (1856) ; ““ Monarchs 
Retired from Business”? (1857) ; ‘‘ The 
History of Court Fools ”’ (1848) ; ‘‘ New 
Pictures and Old Panels ”’ (1859) ; ‘‘ The 
Last Journals of Horace Walpole”’ 
(1859) ; ‘‘ Lives of the Princes of Wales ”’ 
(1860); ‘*‘ A Memoir of Queen Adelaide ”’ 
(1861) ; ‘‘ The Bentley Ballads’’ (1861) ; 
“‘Their Majesties’ Servants” (1863) ; 
“ Saints and Sinners; or, In Church and 
About It’’ (1868); ‘*A Lady of the 
Last Century—Mrs. Elizabeth Mon- 
tague”’ (1873) ; ‘‘‘ Mann’ and Manners 
at the Court of Florence, 1740-1786’ 
(1875) ; ‘‘London in Jacobite Times”’ 
(1878); ‘‘ Memories of our Great Towns”’ 
(1878), ete. Edited Noles and Queries. 


Dowden, Professor Edward, Li.D. 
(Ὁ. Cork, May ord, 18438), *‘ Shake- 
speare: A Critical Study of his Mind 
and Art’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Poems; ”’ ‘‘ Studies 
in Literature’? (1878); ‘‘ Southey ”’ 
(1878) ; ‘‘ Shakespeare’s Sonnets with 
Notes” (1881) ; ‘* Life of Percy Bysshe 
Shelley’? (1886); ‘‘ Transcripts and 
Studies’? (1888); ‘‘ Introduction to 
Shakespeare’”’ (1893); ‘* New Studies 
in Literature’? (1895). Editions of 
Shakespeare, Spenser, Wordsworth, 
Sheliey, etc, 

Deylic, Arthur Conan (Ὁ. Edin- 
burgh, 1859). “Α Study in Scarlet ”’ 
(1883) ; ‘* The Mystery of Cloomber’”’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Micah Clarke ’’ (1889) ; ‘* The 
Firm of Girdlestone’’ (1890); ‘‘ The 
Sign of Four’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ The Captain of 
the Polestar,’’ ete. (1890) ; ‘* The White 
Company ’”’ (1891); ‘‘ The Doings of 
Raffles Haw’? (1892); ‘‘ Adventures of 
Sherlock Holmes ’”’ (1892) ; ‘‘ Memoirs 
of Sherlock Holmes’? (1893); ‘‘ The 
Great Shadow,’’ ete. (1893); “Jane 
Annie’? (with J. M. Barrie) (1893) ; 
“ The Refugees’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ Round the 
Red Lamp’’ (1894); ‘‘The Parasite”’ 
(1894). 

Drayton, Michael (Ὁ. Hartshill, near 
Atherston, Warwickshire, 1563 ; d. 1631). 
«ΕἸ Polyolbion ”’ (1612-22) ; ‘‘ The Barons’ 
Wars;”’ ‘ England’s Heroical Epistles;’’ 
“<The Man in the Moone ;”’ ‘* Endimion 
and Phcebe;’’ ‘‘Idea;’’ ‘‘The Shep- 
herd’s Garland :’’ ‘‘ Matilda ;”’ ‘‘ Mor- 
timeriados;’’ ‘‘The QOwle:”’ ‘* The 
Battle of Agincourt’? (1627); ‘‘ The 
Muses Elizium ;”’ ‘‘ Piers Gaveston ;”’ 
‘“Nymphidia, the Court of Fairy;”’ 


and other works, collected in 1752, with 
‘*An Historical Essay on his Life and 
Writings.’”’ See Hooper’s edition of 


“Works” (1876). 


Driver, Professor Samuel Rolles, 
D.D. (Ὁ. Southampton, 1846). ‘‘ Isaiah: 
his Life and Time, and the Writings 
which bear his Name ’”’ (1888); ‘* An 
Introduction to the Literature of the 
Old Testament ”’ (1891); ‘‘Sermons on 
Subjects connected with the Old Testa- 
ment”’ (1892); a ““ Critical and Exe- 
getical Commentary on Deuteronomy ”’ 
(1895) ; Works on Hebrew, etc. 


Drummond, Professor Henry (b. 
Stirling, 1851). ‘‘ Natural Law in the 
Spiritual World’? (1883) ; ‘‘ Tropical 
Africa’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The Ascent of Man”’ 
(1894), ete. 


Drummond, Principal James, 
LL.D. (Ὁ. Dublin, May 14th, 1835). 
‘Spiritual Religion ’’ (1870) ; ‘‘ The 
Jewish Messiah ’’ (1877); ‘* Introduction 
to the Study of Theology” (1834) ; 
“Philo-Judzeus”’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Via, Veritas, 
Vita’’ (1894). 


Drummond, William (b. Hawthorn- 
den, near Edinburgh, December 13th, 
1585; d. December 4th, 1649). ‘‘ The 
Cypress Grove ;”’ ‘‘ Tears on the Death 
ot Meliades ᾿ (1613); ‘* Poems: Amorous, 
Funerall, Divine, Pastorall, in Sonnets, 
Songs, Sextains, Madrigals’’ (1616); ‘‘For 
the Feasting, a Panegyric on the King’s 
Most Excellent Majestie’’ (1617) ; 
“Floures of Sion’’ (1623) ; ‘‘ Polemo- 
Middinia,carmen Macaronicum”’ (71684); 
and ‘‘ The History of Scotland from the 
Year 1423 untill the Year 1542’ (1655). 
His ““ Conversations with Ben Jonson’? 
(1619), edited in 1842 by David Laing, 
who also wrote a ‘‘ Memoir”’ of the poet 
in the fourth volume of ‘ Archologia 
Seotica.’? Poems edited by W. C. Ward, 
with ‘‘ Memoir’ (1895). See the 
“Memoirs ’’ by Cunningham (1823) and 
Masson (1873). 

Dryden, John (b. Aldwinkle, North- 
amptonshire, August 9th, 1631; d. 
London, May Ist,1701). ‘‘ Heroic Stanza‘ 
on the Death of Oliver Cromwell ”’ 
(1658) ; ‘‘ Astrea Redux’’ (1660) ; “ To 
His Sacred Majesty ’’ (1661): “Τὸ my 
Lord Chancellor’’ (1662); ‘‘The Wild 
Gallant”? (1663) ; ‘The Rival Ladies ”’ 
(1665) ; ‘‘ The Indian Queen’’ (with Sir 
Robert Howard) (1664); ‘‘ The Indian 
Emperor”’ (1665) ; ‘‘ Annus Mirabilis ”’ 
(1667) ; ‘‘Essay of Dramatic Poesie”’ 
(1667); ‘‘Secret. Love’? (1667) ; ‘Sir 
Martin Marr-all”’ (1667) ; ‘All for Love”’ 


Du Maurier 


1668); ‘‘An Evening’s Love’’ (1668) ; 
( 


“¢ Tyrannic Love’’ (1669) ; ‘‘ Of Heroick 
Plays ’’ and ‘‘ The Conquest of Granada’”’ 
(1672); ‘‘ Marriage a la Mode ”’ (1672) ; 
‘The Assignation’’ (1672) ; ‘‘ Amboyna”’ 
(1673); ‘The State of Innocence and 
the Fall of Man”’ (1674); ‘‘ Aurenge 
Zebe; or, the Great Mogul’ (1675) ; 
‘“(Edipus”’ (1679); ‘‘Limherham”’ (1679); 
“Epistles of Ovid” (1679); ‘*The 
Spanish Friar’’ (1681) ; ‘‘ Absalom and 
Achitophel”’ .(1681); ‘‘The Medal: a 
Satire against Sedition ᾽ (1681) ; ‘* Mac- 
Flecknoe’’ (1652); ‘‘Religio Laici”’ 
(1682) ; ‘*The Duke of Guise ’’ (1682) ; 
“* Albion and Albanus’’ (1685) ; ‘* Thre- 
nodia Augustalis ’’ (1685) ; “* The Hind 
and the Panther’’ (1687) ; ‘* Britannia 
Rediviva ᾽᾽ (1689); ‘* Don Sebastian ”’ 
(1690) ; ‘‘ Amphitryon”’ (1690) ; ‘* King 
Arthur ’’ (1691) ; ‘* Cleomenes’’ (with 
Thomas Southern) (1692) ; ‘‘ Love Tri- 
umphant’’ (1694); a ‘Translation of 
Virgil’’ (1697) ; *‘ Alexander’s Feast ”’ 
(1697) ; ‘*‘ Fables’? (1700); and other 
works, including translations and edi- 
tions. The dramatic works have been 
frequently reprinted, and editions of the 
poems published by Bell and Christie. 
For Biography, sce the ‘*Lives’’ by Scott, 
Hooper, and Malone ; for Criticism, Bell, 
Christie, Scott, Johnson’s ‘* Lives,’’ 
Hazlitt’s ‘‘ English Poets,’’? Campbell’s 
“Ὁ Specimens,’ Clough’s ‘‘ Life and 
Letters,’’ Lowell’s ‘* Among my Books,”’ 
Masson’s ‘‘ Essays,’’? and Ward’s ‘‘ Dra- 
matic Literature.”’ 


Du Maurier, George Louis Pal- 
mella Busson (b. March 6th, 1854). 
“‘Peter Ibbetson’’ (1891); ‘‘ Trilby ”’ 
(1894). 


D'Urfey, Thomas (Ὁ. Exeter, 1630; 
ἃ. 1723). Wrote twenty-six plays (a 
list of which is given in Lowndes’s 
“ Bibliographer’s Manual’’): ‘* Archerie 
Revived ; or, the Bowman’s Excellence : 
an Heroic Poem”? (1676) ; ‘*‘ The Progress 
of Honesty: a Pindarique Poem ”’ 
(1681) ; ‘* Butler’s Ghost ; or, Hudibras, 
the Fourth Part, with Reflections upon 
these Times ’’(1682) ; ‘‘ Songs ”’ (1687) ; 
“* Collins’ Walk through London and 
Westminster, a Poem in Burlesque ”’ 
(1690) ; ‘‘Satires, Elegies, and Odes”’ 
(1690) ; ‘‘ Stories, Moral and Comical ”’ 
(1691) ; ‘‘ Tales, Tragical and Comical ”’ 
(1704) ; ‘* A Collection of New Ballads ”’ 
(1715) ; ‘‘ The Merry Musician ’”’ (1716) ; 
“* New Operas’? (1721) ; and ‘‘ The Eng- 
lish Stage Italianized, in anew Dramatic 
Entertainment called Dido and neas ”’ 
(1727). His Dramatic Works appeared 


1358 


in a collected form in 1676-1709, His 
poetical pieces were published in six 
volumes, in 1719-20, under the title of 
“Wit and Mirth; or, Pills to Purge 
Melancholy,’”’ and have since been re- 
printed. 


Duff, The Right Hon. Sir Mount- 
stuart Elphinstone Grant, G.C.S.I. 
(b. 1829). ‘Studies on European 
Politics’? (1866); ‘‘A Glance over 
Europe’”’ (1867) ; “Α Political Survey ”’ 
(1868) ; ‘* East India Financial State- 
ment’? (i869); ‘‘Elgin Speeches ’’ 
(1871) ; ‘f Expedit Laboremus”’ (1872) ; 
‘** Notes of an Indian Journey ”’ (1876) ; 
‘*Miscellanies, Literary and Political”’ 
(1879) ; ‘‘ Ernest Renan ᾽ (1893), 


Dufferin and Ava, Marquis of, 
Frederick Temple Hamilton Blackwood 
(Ὁ. 1826). ‘‘ Narrative of a Journey 
from Oxford to Skibbereen”’ (1848) ; 
‘*¢ Letters from High Latitudes’’ (1860) ; 
“The Honourable Impulsia Gushing- 
ton;’’ ‘‘TIrish Emigration and the 
Tenure of Land in Ireland ;”’ “ Con- 
tribution to an Inquiry into the State of 
Treland,’’ ete. ; ‘‘ Speeches Delivered in 
India ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Address Delivered at 
St. Andrews’? (1891). Has edited 
‘* Songs, Poems, and Verses of Baroness 
Dufferin, afterwards Countess of Gif- 
ford’’ (1894). 


Dufferin and Ava, Marchioness 
of, Harriot Georgina Blackwood, née 
Hamilton. ‘‘Our Vice-Regal Life in 
India’? (1889); ‘*‘My Canadian Jour- 
nal’? (1891), ete, 


Duffy, The Hon. Sir Charles 
Gavan, K.C.M.G. (b. Monaghan, 1816). 
“Young Ireland: a Fragment of Irish 
History, 1840-50’ (1880) ; ‘‘ Four Years 
of Irish History, 1845-49 ”’ (1883), ete. 


Dugdale, Sir William (b. at Shus- 
toke, Warwickshire, September 12th, 
1605; ἃ. February 10th, 1686). ‘* Mon- 
asticon Anglicanum’’ (1655-73, new 
edition 1846); ‘‘ Antiquities of War- 
wickshire ”’ (1656) ; ‘‘ Memoirs of Eng- 
lish Laws” (1666) ; ‘‘ The Ancient Use 
of Bearing Arms”? (1682). | Autobio- 
graphy in second edition of his ‘* His- 
tory of St. Paul’s”’ (1658), and with 
Journal and Correspondence (1827). 


Dyce, the Rev. Alexander (b. 
1798; ἃ. 1869). ‘* Select Translations of 
Quintus Smyrneus’’ (1821) ; ‘‘Speci- 
mens of the English Poetesses ’’ (1523) ; 
ςς Recollections of the Table Talk of 
Samuel Rogers’? (1858). [15 chiefly 
known for his excellent editions of 


Dykes 


1359 


Etherege . 


Marlowe, Peele, Greene, Webster, Mid- 
dleton, Beaumont and Fletcher, etc. 


Dykes, Principal James Oswald, 
D.D. (Ὁ. Port Glasgow, 1835). ‘‘ The 
Written Word,”’ etc. (1868) ; ‘* Problems 
of Faith’? (1875) ; ‘‘ Sermons ”’ (1881) ; 
‘The Law of the Ten Words’’ (1884) ; 
““The Gospel According to St. Paul”? 
(1888) ; ““ PlainWords on Great Themes”’ 
(1892), εἴο, 


E 


Eadie, John, LL.D. (b. Alloa, 1813; 
d. Glasgow, 1876). Edited ‘‘ The Bible 
Cyclopedia,’? and published Commen- 
taries on several of St. Paul’s Epistles ; 
“Divine Love: Doctrinal, Practi- 
eal, and Experimental; ’’ ‘‘ Paul the 
Preacher ;”’ ‘‘ The Classified Bible; ”’ 
“ Dictionary cf the Bible for Young 
Persons ;’’ and a ‘‘ History of the Eng- 
lish Bible’? (1877). See his ‘‘Life”’ 
(1878). 

Eastlake, Sir Charles Lock (b. 
Plymouth, 1793 ; ἃ. Florence, December 
23rd, 1865). ‘‘ Materials for a History 
of Oil Painting’’ (1847); ‘‘ Contribu- 
tions to the Literature of the Fine 
Arts’? (1848). He also edited Kugler’s 
** Handbook of Painting ”’ (1848), and 
translated Goethe’s ‘‘Theory of Colours”’ 
(1840). 

Edgeworth, Maria (b. Hare Hatch, 
Berkshire, January Ist, 1767; d. Edge- 
worthstown, Longford, Ireland, May 
21st, 1849). ‘Collected Works”’ in 
1825. The edition of 1856 includes 
“* Moral Tales,’’ ‘‘ Popular Tales,’’ ‘‘ Be- 
linda,’’ ‘* Castle Rackrent,’’ ‘‘ Essay on 
Trish Bulls,” ‘‘ The Noble Science of 
Self - Justification,’? ‘‘ Eunice,’’? ‘‘The 
Dun,’’ ‘Tales of Fashionable Life,’’ 
τος Patronage,”’ ‘* Comic Dramas,’’ ‘‘ Leo- 
nora,’ ‘‘ Letters for Literary Ladies,’’ 
“Ὁ Harrington,’ ‘‘ Thoughts on Bores,’’ 
*Ormond,”? and ‘‘Ellen.’”? Besides 
these Miss Edgeworth published ‘‘ Early 
Lessons for Children;’’ ‘‘The Parent’s 
Assistant; or, Stories for Children ;’’ 
‘* Harry and Lucy : ‘‘ Little Plays for 
Young People;’’? and ‘‘ Orlandino ;”’ 
and concluded the Memoirs of her 
father, Richard Lovell Edgeworth, Sve 
her Memoir by Mrs. Edgeworth (1867) ; 
also ‘‘ Life and Letters” by A. J. Ὁ. 
Hare (1894). 

Edwards, Amelia Blandford (b. 
155 ἃ eAprily loth, 1892). e.My 
Brother’s Wife”? (1835) ; ‘‘ Hand and 


Glove”’ (1859) ; ‘‘Barbara’s History ” 
(1864); ‘‘ Half a Million of Money ” 
(1865) ; “‘ Miss Carew ᾽ (1865) ; ‘‘ Deb- 
enham’s Vow” (1870); “In the Day: 
of my Youth” (1873) ; “Μ. Maurice’ 
(1873) ; ‘* Untrodden Peaks’? (1873) , 
‘“‘A Thousand Miles up the Nile” 
(1877) ; ‘*‘ Lord Brackenbury ’’ (1880) ; 
‘*Pharaohs, Fellahs, and Explorers” 
(1891). Also wrote many articles on 
Egyptology, and translated M. Mas- 
péro’s “1 Archéologie Egyptienne.”’ 


Egerton, George, vere Mary Chara- 
lita Egerton Clairmonte, γιός Dunne (b. 
Melbourne, Australia). ‘‘ Keynotes’’ 
(1899); ** Discords’’ (1894); transla- 
tions from the Swedish. 


Eliot, George, Mrs. J. W. Cross, né 
Marian Evans (b. November 22nd, 1819; 
d. December 22nd, 1880). Besides trans- 
lations of Strauss’s ‘‘ Life of Jesus’! 
(1846) and Feuerbach’s ‘‘ Essence of 
Christianity ’? (1853), she published :— 
‘* Scenes of Clerical Life’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ Adam 
Bede ’’(1859) ; ‘‘ The Millon the Floss ”’ 
(1860) ; ‘‘ Silas Marner ”’ (1861) ; ‘‘ Ro- 
mola’’ (1863); ‘‘ Felix Holt’? (1866) ; 
“Middlemarch ’’ (1871-72); ‘‘ Daniel 
Deronda’’ (1876); ‘‘ Impressions of 
Theophrastus Such’? (1879); ‘‘ The 
Spanish Gipsy’? (1868); ‘‘ The Legend 
of Jubal’’ (1874). See R. H. Hutton’s 
‘* Essays’? and ‘‘ The Beauties of George 
Eliot.”’ For Biography, sce the ‘‘ Life ”’ 
by J. W. Cross and Mathilde Blind’s 
“George Eliot”? in the Lminent Women 
series. 


Ellicott, The Right Rev. Charles 
John, D.D. (b. Whitwell, near Stam- 
ford, April 25th, 1819). ‘‘ The Life of Our 
Lord Jesus Christ’? (1860) ; ‘‘ Consider- 
ations on the Revision of the English 
Version of the New Testament’’ (1870) ; 
‘Present Dangers of the Church”’ 
(1877) ; ‘‘Modern Unbelief” (1877); 
“The Being of God’’ (1879) ; ‘‘ Funda- 
mental Doctrine’? (1885), ete. Editor 
of Commentaries on the Old and the 
New Testament, etc. 


Elliott, Ebenezer (b. near Rother- 
ham, March 17th, 1781; d. near Barnsley, 
December Ist, 1849). “*Corn - Law 
Rhymes ”’ (1831-46), etc. Works (1876). 
“Tife’? by Searle. Sce Carlyle’s 
‘* Bssay on the Corn-Law Rhymes ”’ and 
Autobiographical Sketch in Atheneum of 
January 12th, 1850. 

Etherege, Sir George (b. Oxford- 
shire, 1636; d. Ratisbon, 1694). ‘* The 
Comical Revenge ; or, Love in a Tub’’ 


Evelyn 


1360 


Fawcett 


(1664); ‘‘She Would if She Could” 
(1668); ‘The Man of Mode; or, Sir 
Fopling Flutter ”’ (1676) ; ‘‘ The Trial of 
the Poets for the Bays,’? ‘* Works”’ 
in 1704. For Biography, see the ‘* Bio- 
graphia Britannica,”’ the “ὁ Dictionary of 
National Biography,’’ and The Fort- 
nightly Review, first series. 


Evelyn, John (b. Wotton, Surrey, 
October 9150, 1620; d. February 20th, 
1706). ‘‘Sylva’’ (1664) ; ‘‘ Terra’’ (1675) ; 
‘Mundus Muliebris ’’ (1690) ; ‘* Diary ”’ 
(1818 and 1857 ; new edition, 1859). 


Ewing, Juliana Horatia Orr (b. 
1842; ἃ. 1885). ‘*The Brownies, and 
Other Tales ”’ (1870) ; ‘* A Flat Iron for a 
Farthing”’ (1873) ; ‘‘ A Great Emergency, 
and Other Tales’? (1877); ‘‘ We and the 
World” (1881) ; “ Old-fashioned Fairy 
Tales ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Jackanapes’’ (1884) ; 
‘The Story of a Short Life ’’ (1885). 


Ε 
Fairbairn, Principal Andrew 
Martin, D.D. (b. near Edinburgh, 


November 4th, 1838). ‘Studies in the 
Philosophy of Religion and History ”’ 
(1876) ; ‘Studies in the Life of Christ ’’ 
(1880) ; ‘The City of God” (1883) ; 
“‘Religion in History and in the Life of 
To-day ’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ The Place of Christ 
in Modern Theology ”’ (1895). 

Falconer, William (b. Edinburgh, 
February 11th, 1732; ἃ. at sea, 1769). 
‘* The Shipwreck ”’ (1762) ; ‘*The Dema- 
gogue”’ (1765) ; ‘The Marine Diction- 
ary’ (1769). See the Rev. J. Mitford’s 
preface to the Aldine edition of his 
Poems, ‘“‘The Lives of the Scottish 
Poets,’ Laing’s ‘‘ Lives: of Scottish 
Authors,’ and the ‘* Dictionary of 
National Biography.”’ 

Falkland, Viscount. 
Lucivs.) 


Faraday, Michael, D.C.L. (Ὁ. Stoke 
Newington, September 22nd, 1791; ἢ. 
Hampton Court, August 25th, 1867). 
‘* Chemical Manipulation ”’ (1827) ; ‘‘ Ex- 
perimental Researches on Electricity,” 
ete. Sve Tyndall’s ‘‘ Faraday as a Dis- 
coverer’’ (1869), and the ‘‘ Life and 
Letters ’’ (1870). 


Farjeon, Benjamin Leopold (b. 


(See Cary, 


London, May 12th, 1833). ‘‘ Grif” 
(1870); ‘‘Joshua Marvel”? (1871); 
‘“‘TLondon’s Heart’? (1873); ‘‘ Jessie 


Trim’? (1874); ‘Christmas Stories’’ 


(1874); ‘‘Love’s Victory’? (1875), 
“* Duchess of Rosemary Lane”’ (1876) ; 
“House of White Shadows’ (1884) ; 
“Great Porter Square’’ (1884); ‘‘ The 
Sacred Nugget’? (1885); ‘‘In a Silver 
Sea’’? (1886); ‘‘The Nine of Hearts ’’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ A Secret Inheritance ’’ (1887) ; 
“ΤῊ 6 Tragedy of Featherstone’’ (1887) ; 
‘‘ Miser Farebrother ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Toilers 
of Babylon’’ (1888) ; ‘‘A Young Girl’s 
Life’’ (1889); ‘‘A Strange Enchant- 
ment’? (1889); ‘*The Blood-White 
Rose ’’ (1889) ; *‘ Dr. Glennie’s Daugh- 
ter’? (1889); ‘‘ Basil and Amnette”’ 
(1890) ; ‘‘ The Peril of Richard Pardon ”’ 
(1890) ; ‘‘ Mystery of M. Felix’? (1890) ; 
‘* For the Defence ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ March of 
Fate’? (1892) ; ‘‘Something Occurred ”’ 
(1893); ‘‘The Last Tenant’ (1893) ; 
“* Aaron the Jew ”’ (1894). 


Farquhar, George (b. Londonderry, 
1678; ἃ. 1707). ‘‘ Love and a Bottle”’ 
(1698) ; ‘‘ The Constant Couple ’’ (1700) ; 
“Sir Harry Wildair’’ (1701); ‘‘ The 
Inconstant”’ (1703) ; ‘‘ The Stage Coach”’ 
(1704); ** The Twin Rivals” (1705) ; 
‘*The Recruiting Officer’’ (1706) ; and 
“The Beaux’ Stratagem’’ (1707). 
‘* Works’ in 1714. The comedies were 
edited, with a critical introduction, by 
Leigh Hunt. See also Hazlitt’s ‘*‘ Comic 
Writers’’ and Ward’s ‘‘ Dramatic Litera- 
ture.” 


Farrar, -Very Rev. Fredericlh 
William, D.D. (b. Bombay, 1831). 
‘‘Origin of Language ;”’ ‘‘ Chapters on 
Language ’’ (1865); ‘‘ The Fall of Man, 
and Other Sermons’? (1865) ; ‘‘A Lec- 
ture οὐ Public School Education ”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘ Seekers after God’’ (1869) ; 
‘*Families of Speech’ (1870); ‘‘ The 
Witness of History to Christ ’’ (1871) ; 
“The Silence and Voices of God” 
(1873) ; “ὝΠΟ Life of Christ ’’ (1874) ; 
** Marlborough Sermons”’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Eter-. 
nal Hope”? (1878) ; ‘‘ Saintly Workers ”’ 
(1878) ; ‘‘The Life and Work of St. 
Paul’ (1879) ; ‘‘ Mercy and Judgmen*”’ 
(1881) ; ‘‘ Early Days of Christianity "ἢ 
(1882) ; ‘*Solomon’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Lives of 
the Fathers’’ (1889); ‘‘The Minor 
Prophets ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ The Wider Hope”’ 
(1890) ; ‘The Passion Play at Ober- 
Ammergau”’ (1890); ‘‘ Truths to Live 
By” (1890) ; ‘‘ Darkness and Dawn”’ 
(1891) ; ‘‘ Social and_ Present - Day 
Questions’? (1891); “ὙΠῸ Voice from 
Sinai’”’? (1892); also some stories of 
school life. 


Fawcett, Henry (b. 1833; d. 1884). 
‘‘ A Manualof Political Economy,”’ ‘‘ The 


Fenn 


1361 


Flecknoe 


ee 


Economic Position of the British La- 
bourer,”’ ‘‘Pauperism, its Causes and 
Remedies,’ ‘‘Speeches,’”? and ‘Free 
Trade and Protection,’”’ ete. See ‘‘ Life 
of Henry Faweett,’’ by Leslie Stephen 
(18835). 

Fenn, George Manville (b. Pimlico, 
1831). ‘*Bent, not Broken’’ (1866) ; 
“Double Cunning’’ (1886); ‘‘ The 
Story of Autony Grace” (1887) ; ““ Com- 
modore Junk’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The Lass that 
Loved a Soldier’? (1889); ‘‘ Lady 
Maude’s Mania’’ (1890); ‘‘ The Black 
Bar” (1893); ‘‘ Fire Island’? (1894) ; 
“The Tiger Lily’’ (1894) ; ‘* The Queen’s 
Scarlet’ (1895), ete. ete. 


Ferguson, Sir Samuel (b. 1510; 
ἃ, 1886). ‘‘The Cromlech on Howth” 
(1864); ‘The Lays of the Western 
Gael’? (1865) ; ‘‘Congal, a Poem in Five 
Books”? (1872) ;*‘ Leabhar Breac”’ (1876); 
“ Poems”? (1880) ; ““ Shakespearian Bre- 
viates’’? (1882); ‘‘The Forging of the 
Anchor ᾽ (1883). 


Ferrier, James Frederick (b. 
Edinburgh, November, 1808; d. June 
11th, 1864). ‘‘ Institutes of Metaphysics : 
The Theory of Knowing and Being”’ 
(1854) ; ‘‘ Lectures on Greek Philosophy” 
(1864). Edited Works of Professor 
Wilson. 


Ferrier, Susan Edmonston (b. 
Edinburgh, 1782; d. November 7th, 
1854).  ‘* Marriage”? (1818); ‘‘ The 
Inheritance’? (1824); and ‘‘ Destiny ; 
or, The Chief’s Daughter” (1831). 
‘* Works’’ in 1841. 

Field, Michael (pseudonym οἵ 
Miss Bradley and Miss Cooper). ‘* Cal- 
lirrhot, ete.’? (1884); ‘‘The Father’s 
Tragedy, ete.’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Brutus Ultor”’ 
(1886) ; ““ Canute the Great, etc.”’ (1887); 
“Long Ago’? (1889) ; 
Mary” (1890); ‘‘Sight and Song’’ 
(1892) ; ‘‘Stephania ’’ (1892) ; ** A Ques- 
tion of Memory ᾽᾽ (1893) ; ‘‘ Underneath 
the Bough” (1893). 

Fielding, Henry (b. near Glaston- 
bury, April 22nd, 1707; d. Lisbon, 
October 8th, 1154). ‘‘ The Adventures 
of Joseph Andrews” (1742); “ΑΔ Jour- 
ney from this World to the Next” (1748); 
‘“‘ The History of Jonathan Wild” (1743); 
“The History of Tom Jones”’ (1742) ; 
“* Amelia’? (1751) ; the following drama- 
tic pieces: ‘‘Love in Several Masques,” 
‘‘The Temple Beau,’’ ‘The Author’s 
Farce,’’ ‘‘ The Coffee-house Politician,”’ 
“Tom Thumb,” ‘‘The Modern Hus- 
band,’? ‘‘The Mock Doctor,’ ‘‘ The 
Miser,” ‘‘The Intriguing Chamber- 


86 


“The ‘Tragic | 


maid,’’? ‘‘Don Quixote in England,” 
“ Pasquin,”’ ‘‘ The Historical Register,” 
“The Wedding Day,’”’ and various mis- 
cellaneous works, including ‘‘ Essays on 
the Characters of Man,”’ and *‘ A Jour- 
nal of a Voyage to Lisbon.’”’ Collected 
editions of his writings appeared in 1743, 
1762, and (edited by Roscoe) 1848. His 
novels were published, with an introduc- 
tion by Sir Walter Scott, in 1821, in 
Ballantyne’s ‘‘ Novelist’s Library.’’ For 
Biography and Criticism, se¢ the ** Lives”’ 
by Murphy and Lawrence, Lady M. 
Wortley Montagu’s ‘“‘ Letters,’’ Jesse’s 
“Celebrated Etonians,’? Thackeray’s 
“ Lectures on the Humorists,’’ Masson’s 
‘“‘ Novelists and their Styles,’? and Dob- 
son’s “ Fielding’ in the English Men cf 
Letters series. 


Finlay, George, LL.D. (b. Scotland, 
1799 ; ἃ. January 26th, 1875). ‘* Greece 
under the Romans’’ (1843); ‘‘ History 
of Greece, from its Conquest by the 
Crusaders to its Conquest by the Turks” 
(1851) ; ‘* History of the Byzantine Em- 
pire’? (1852) ; ‘‘ History of the Byzantine 
and Greek Empires ᾽ (1854) ; ‘* History 
of Greece under Othoman and Venetian 
Dominion’? (1854); ‘‘ History of the 
Greek Revolution ”’ (1861). 


Fitzgerald, Edward (b. 1809; d. 
1883). Published translations of ‘* Six 
Dramas of Calderon’ (1853); the 
‘““Agamemnon;’’ ‘‘ Omar Khayyam 
and Salaman and Absal;’’ and wrote 
‘‘Euphranor, a Dialogue on Youth,” 
and ‘*‘ Polonius, a Collection of Wise Saws 
and Modern Instances.’ ‘‘ Letters and 
Literary Remains,”’ edited by W. Aldis 
Wright (1389). 


Flecknoe, Richard (d. 1678). ‘‘ Hie- 
rothalamium ; or, the Heavenly Nup- 
tials of our Blessed Saviour with a Pious 
Soule’? (1626); ‘“‘The Affections of a 
Pious Soule unto our Savicur Christ ”’ 
(1640) ; ‘* Miscellania ; or, Poems of all 
Sorts’? (1653); “ΔΑ Relation of Ten 
Years’ Travells in Europe, Asia, Affrique, 
and America’? (1654); ‘‘ Love’s Do- 
minion”? (1654); ‘‘The Diarium or 
Journal, divided into twelve jornadas 


| in burlesque Rhime or Drolling Verse” 


(1656) ; ‘* Enigmaticall Characters, all 
taken from the Life’’ (1658); ‘‘ The 
Marriage of Oceanus and Britannia ”’ 
(1659); ‘‘ Heroic Portraits”’ (1660) ; 
“Love’s Kingdom, a Pastoral Trage- 
Comedy, with a Short Treatise on the 
English Stage’’ (1664) ; ‘“ Erminia: a 
Trage-Comedy ”’ (1665) ; ‘* The Damoi- 
selles ἃ la Mode, a Comedy’’ (1667) ; 


Fletcher 


‘¢ Sir William Davenant’s Voyage to the 
other World’’ (1668), ete. 


Fletcher, John (b. Rye, Sussex, 
December, 1579; ἃ. 1625). ‘* The Elder 
Brother ;’’ ‘‘The Spanish Curate ;”’ 
“The Humorous Lieutenant ;’’ ‘‘ The 
Faithful Shepherdess ;’’ ‘* Boadicea ;”’ 
“The Loyal Subject ;”’ ‘‘ Rule a Wife 
and Have a Wife;’’ ‘‘ The Chances; ”’ 
‘““The Wild-goose Chase;’’ ‘‘A Wite 
fora Month ;”’ ‘‘ The Captain ;”’ ‘* The 
Prophetess; ’’ ‘‘ Love’s Cure;’’ ‘*‘ Women 
Pleased ;’’ ‘‘The Sea Voyage ;”’ ‘‘ The 
Fair Maid of the Inn;” *‘ The Two 
Noble Kinsmen ’’ (supposed to have 
been revised by William Shakespeare) ; 
““The False One;’’ ‘* The Lover’s Pro- 
gress’? and ‘The Noble Gentleman ”’ 
(which are supposed to have been 
written with Shirley) ; ‘‘ Love’s Pilgrim- 
age;’’ “Το Night Walker;’’ ‘‘ The 
Queen of Corinth ;’’ ‘‘ The Maid in the 
Mill; " ‘‘The Nice Valour ;’’ a number 
of plays written in conjunction with 
Beaumont, for which see BEAUMONT 
AND FLETCHER. 


Foote, Samuel (Ὁ. Truro, 1719; ἃ. 


Dover, October 2Ist, 1777). ‘* The 
Diversions of the Morning’’ (1747) ; 
“The Auction of Pictures’? (1748) ; 


“Taste” (1752) ; ‘*The Englishman in 
Paris ’’ (1758) ; **‘ The Knights ᾽᾽ (1754) ; 
“The Englishman Returnedfrom Paris ᾽ἢ 
(1756) ; ‘*The Author’? (1757); ‘‘ The 
Minor ”’ (1760) ; ‘‘ The Orators’’ (1762) ; 
“The Lyar’’ (1762); ‘“‘The Tryal of 
Samuel Foote’ (1763); ‘‘The Mayor 
of Garrat’? (1764); ‘‘The Patron ”’ 
(1764); ‘*The Commissary’? (1765) ; 
“Prelude on Opening the Theatre” 
(1767) ; ‘* The Devil upon Two Sticks’’ 
(1768) ; ‘‘The Lame Lover’? (1770) ; 
“The Maid of Bath’’ (1771); ‘‘The 
Nabob’’ (1772); ‘‘ Piety in Pattens”’ 
(1778) ; ‘‘ The Cozeners’’ (1774) ; ‘‘ The 
Bankrupt’? (1776) ; ‘‘ The Capuchin”’ 
(1776); ‘*A Trip to Calais”? (1778) ; 
“ Lindamira’’ (1805) ; ‘‘ TheSlanderer ;”’ 
and ‘‘The Young Hypocrite.’”’ ‘* Dra- 
matic Works’’ in 1778. For Biography, 
see the ‘Life’? by Cooke (1805), 
Davies’s “Life of Garrick,’’ Boswell’s 
“Life of Johnson,’”’ the ‘‘ Biographia 
Dramatica,”’ the ‘‘ Dictionary of Na- 
tional Biography,’’ and Forster’s ‘‘ Es- 
says.”’ 


Forbes, James David, D.C.L. (b. 
Edinburgh, April 20th, 1809; d. 1868). 
“Travels through the Alps of Savoy ”’ 
(1843) ; ‘*‘ Norway and its Glaciers ”’ 
(1853) ; ‘‘ Tour of Mont Blane ᾽ (1855) ; 


1362 


Fox 


=] πτ-ΠΠ-πτ----ΠΠΤΠἕὯὃ' -ὠ-. 


“The Theory of Glaciers’? (1859). Life 
by Principal Shairp and others (1873), 


Ford, John (b. Ilsington, N. Devon, 
1586 ; ἃ. Ilsington, 1640). ‘* The Lover’s 
Melancholy ’’ (1629) ; ‘‘’Tis Pity She’s 
a Whore”’ (1633) ; ‘* The Broken Heart’’ 
(1633); ‘‘ Love’s Sacrifice’? (1633) ; 
‘* Perkin Warbeck”’ (1634); ‘The 
Fancies, Chaste and Noble’’ (1638) ; 
‘The Lady’s Trial’ (1639) ; ‘‘ Beauty in 
a Trance ’’ (1653) ; ‘The Sun’s Darling”’ 
(1657) ; ‘‘ Witch of Edmonton’? (with 
Dekker and Rowley) ; ‘‘ The Royal Com- 
bat ;’’ **An ΠῚ Beginning has a Good 
End ;”’ ‘*The Fairy Knight” (with 
Dekker) ; ‘‘ A Late Muther of the Sonne 
upon the Mother ’’ (with Webster) ; and 
‘*The Bristowe Merchant’? (with Dek- 
ker). ‘‘ Works,’? 1869. See Swin- 
burne’s “* Essays and Studies,’’ Minto’s 
‘“‘English Poets,’? Ward’s ‘ Dramatic 
Literature.’’ Works edited by Gifford 
and Dyce (1895). 


Forman, Harry Buxton (b. London, 
July 11th, 1842). ‘‘ Our Living Poets”’ 
(1861), ete. Has edited the works of 
Shelley, Keats, etc. 


Forster, John (b. Newcastle, 1812; 
ἃ. February Ist, 1870). ‘‘ Statesman of 
the Commonwealth of England ”’ (1831- 
34); “Α Life of Oliver Goldsmith ”’ 

1848); ‘‘ Biographical and Historical 
Yssays’’ (1859); ‘‘The Arrest of the 
Five Members by Charles the TVirst”’ 
and ‘Debates on the Grand Remon- 
strance’’ (1860); ‘‘Sir John Eliot,’ a 
biography (1864); ‘‘ Walter Savage 
Landor,’’ a biography (1868); ‘‘ The 
Life of Charles Dickens’? (1872-74) ; and 
“A Life of Jonathan Swift”? (un- 
finished), (1876). Edited the Daily 
News (1846) and the Examiner (1847-58). 

Foster, John (b. Halifax, September 
17th, 1770; d. Stapleton, near Bristol, 
October 15th, 1843). ‘‘ Essays, in a 
Series of Letters to a Friend’’ (1805) ; 
“On the Evils of Popular Ignorance ”’ 
(1819) ; followed by other works, the 
chief one, ‘‘ Contributions, Biographi- 
eal, Literary, and Philosophical, to the 
Eclectic Review ”’ (1840). Selected Works 
in Bohn’s Standard Library. See ‘‘ The 
Life and Correspondence of John Fos- 
ter,’ by Dr. Ryland; also the “ Life”’ 
by Shepherd. 

Fox or Foxe, John (b. Boston, 
1517 ; ἃ. 1587). Wrote ‘‘De Non Plec- 
tendis Morte Adulteris Consultatio”’ 
(1548) ; “De Censura seu Excommuni- 
catione Ecclesiastica (1551) ; ‘‘ De Christo 
Triumphante”’ (1581); ‘‘ Tables οὗ 


Francillon 


1363 


Fuller 


Grammar” (1552); ““ Acts and Monu- 
ments of the Church” (1562); and 
many other works, for a list of which 
see Wood’s ‘* Athenze Oxonienses.’’ See 
also Churton’s ‘‘ Life of Nowell,’’? Ful- 
ler’s ‘‘ Church History,’’ and Morley’s 
** English Writers,”’ vols. viii. and xi. 


Francillon, Robert Edward (b. 
Gloucester, 1841). ‘‘Earl’s Dene” 
(1870) ; ‘‘ Pearl and Emerald”’ (1872) ; 
** Zelda’s Fortune ’’ (1873) ; ‘‘ Olympia”’ 
(1874); ‘*‘A Dog and his Shadow ’”’ 
(1876) ;  “‘Strange Waters’? (1878) ; 
** Queen Cophetua’’ (1880); ““A Real 


Queen’’ (1884); ‘‘Romances of the 
Law’’ (1889); ‘‘Ropes of Sand” 
(1899); ‘*Jack Doyle’s Daughter”’ 


(1894), ete. 


Freeman, Professor Edward 
Augustus, D.C.L., LL.D. (b. Har- 
borne, Staffordshire, 1823; d. 1892). 
“‘ Church Restoration ’’ (1846) ; ‘‘ A His- 
tory of Architecture’? (1849); ‘‘ An 
Essay on Window Tracery’’ (1850) ; 
“The Architecture of Llandaff Cathe- 
dral”’ (1851) ; ‘‘ The History and Con- 
quests of the Saracens’? (1856); ‘‘ An- 
cient Greece and Medizyal Italy’ in 
‘*Oxford Essays’’ (1858); ‘‘ The His- 
tory and Antiquities of St. David’s,”’ 
with Rev. W. Basil Jones (1860) ; ‘‘ The 
History of Federal Government”’ (1863) ; 
“*The History of the Norman Conquest’’ 
(1867-76) ; ‘‘ Old English History for 
Children”? (1869); ‘‘The Cathedral 
Church of Wells”’ (1870) ; ‘* Historical 
Essays’? (1871-2-3) ; ““ Growth of the 
English Constitution ’’? (1872); ‘‘ The 
Unity of History’? (1872) ; ‘‘ Compara- 
tive Politics’? (1873); ‘‘ Disestablish- 
ment and Disendowment’’ (1874) ; 
** Mistorical and Architectural Studies ”’ 
(1876); ‘‘ The Ottoman Power in 
Europe ”’ (1877); ‘‘ The Reign of Wil- 
liam MRufus’’ (1881); ‘‘Some In- 
pressions of the United States’’ (1883) ; 
*“The English People in their Home’’ 
(1884) ; ‘* The Practical Bearing of Gen- 
eral European History’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ The 
Methods of Historical Study ᾽ (1886) ; 
“ Chief Periods of European History ”’ 
(1886) ; ““ Exeter’? (1887); ‘‘ Four Ox- 
ford Lectures’? (1887); ‘*‘ William the 
Conqueror ”’ (1888) ; ‘‘ History of Sicily 
from the Earliest Times’’ (1891); 
“Sicily, Phoenician, Greek, and Ro- 
man,’’ (1892); ‘‘ History of Federal 
Government in Greece 
(1893); ‘‘Studies of Travel’’ (1893). 
‘The fourth volume of the ‘‘ History of 
Sicily ’’ appeared in 1895. ‘‘Life’”’ by 
W. R. W. Stephens (1895), 


and Italy 5 5 


Fremantle, The Hon. and Very 
Rev. Wm. Henry (b. Swanbourne, 
Bucks., 1831). ‘‘‘The Gospel of the 
Secular Life”? (1882); ‘“‘The World as 
the Subject of Redemption ’’ (1885), etc. 


Frere, John Hookham (b. 1769; 
4. 1841). Contributed to the famous 
Anti-Jacobin, in which he wrote, among 
other jeux @esprit, ‘*‘The Loves of the 
Triangles,’’? and, with George Canning, 
““The Needy Knife-Grinder.’”’ He also 
published a translation of Aristophanes 
(1840), and a work called ‘‘ Theocritus 
Restitutus.”? See ‘* The Works of the 
Right Hon. J. H. Frere,’ with a Memoir 
by Sir Bartle Frere (1871). 


Friswell, James Hain (b. New- 
port, 1827; d. 1878). ‘‘ Life Portraits 
of Shakespeare’’; ‘‘The Gentle Life ”’ 
(1864); ‘*The Better Self’’; ‘‘ Other 
People’s Windows ”’; ‘‘ One of Το"; 
“Out and About’’; ‘‘About in the 
World”’ ; ‘‘ A Man’s Thoughts”’ ; ‘‘ Va- 
vria’’?; ‘*Francis Spira, and_ other 
Poems,”’ besides editions of Sidney, 
Montaigne, A’Kempis, and others. 


Froude, Professor James An- 
thony, LL.D. (b. Dartington, Devon- 
shire, April 23rd, 1818; d. October 
20th, 1894). ‘‘The Shadows of the 
Clouds’? (1847); ‘“‘The Nemesis of 
Faith’? (1849); ‘‘The History of Eng- 
land from the Fall of Wolsey to the 
Death of Elizabeth’? (1856-70) ; three 
series of ‘Short Studies on Great Sub- 
jects’? (1869, 1872, and 1877); ‘‘ The 
English in Ireland in the Highteenth 
Century’”’ (1871-74); ‘‘ Julius Cesar”’ 
(1879); ‘‘Bunyan”’ (1880); ‘* Thomas 
Carlyle; a History of the First Forty 
Years of his Life’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Carlyle’s 
Reminiscences’? (1883); ‘‘ Letters and 
Memorials of Jane Welsh Carlyle” 
(1884) ; ‘‘ Oceana’’ (1886); ‘*The Eng- 
lish in the West Indies ”’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The 
Two Chiefs of Dunboy”’ (1889) ; ‘‘ Lord 
Beaconsfield "ἢ (1890); ‘* Divorce of 
Catherine of Aragon’’ (1891); ‘‘The 
Spanish Story of the Armada,” ete. 
1892) ; ‘‘ Life and Letters of Erasmus”’ 
(1894); ‘English Seamen in the Six- 
teenth Century ’’ (1895). 


Fuller, Thomas (b. 1608; d. August 
16th, 1661). ‘‘ David’s Hainous Sinne, 
Heartie Repentance, Heavie Punish- 
ment,’’? a poem (1631) ; ‘‘The Historie 
of the Holy Warre”’ . (1659-40-42-47 
-51); ‘The Holy and Profane States” 
(1642-48-52-58) ; ‘*Good Thoughts in 
Bad Times’’ (1648); ‘‘ Good Thoughts 
in Worse Times’’ (1646) ; ‘‘ Mixt Con- 


Fullerton 


templations in Better Times’? (1660) ; 
** Andronicus ; or, the Unfortunate Poli- 
tician’? (1649); “A Pisgah-sight of 
Palestine’? (1650); ‘‘ Abel Redivivus ; 
or, the Dead yet Speaking’’ (1651) ; 
“The Church History of Britain from 
the Birth of Christ to 1048 (1656) ; 
‘“‘The Appeal of Injured Innocence ”’ 
(1659); ‘*The History of the Worthies 
οὐ England ”’ (1662), ete., ete. “A Se- 
lection from the Writings of Fuller”’ 
wus made by Arthur Broome (1815) ; 
see also Charles Lamb’s ‘* Works ”’ and 
Basil Montagu’s ‘‘Selections.’’ There 
are ‘‘ Lives’? of Fuller by A. T, Russell 
(1844) and J. BE. Bailey (1874). 

Fullerton, Lady Georgina (b. Tix- 
all Hall, Staffs., September 23rd, 1812; 
ἃ. January 19th, 1885). ‘ Ellen Middle- 
ton”’ (1844) ; ‘* Grantley Manor ᾽ (1847) ; 
“Tady-bird’? (1852); ** Laurentia’’ 
(1861); ‘*Too Strange not to be True ”’ 
(1864) ; ““ Constance Sherwood ”’ (1865) ; 
“Α Stormy Life ’’ (1867) ; ‘‘ Mrs. Gerald’s 
Niece ’’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Dramas from the Lives 
of the Saints’’ (1872); ‘‘The Gold- 
Digger, and other Verses’’ (1872); ‘*A 
Will and a Way ”’ (1881). Several bio- 
graphical works, ete. ‘Life,’ by A. 
Craven. 


G 


Gairdner, James (b. 1828). ‘‘ His- 
toria Regis Henrici Septimi’’ (1858) ; 
“Letters and Papers illustrative of the 
Reigns of Richard III. and Henry VII.”’ 
(1861-63) ; ‘*'The Houses of York and 
Lancaster ’’ (1874) ; ““ Historical Collee- 
tions of a London Citizen’’ (1876) ; 
“Life and Reign of Richard III.” 
(518): ** Three Fifteenth - Century 
Chronicles’ (1880) ; ‘‘ Studies in Eng- 
lish History,’? with James Spedding 
(1881); ‘‘ Henry the Seventh’’ (1889). 
Has also edited the ‘‘ Paston Letters”’ 
(1872-75), and several volumes of the 
ee and Papers of Henry VIII.,’’ 
ete. 

Gale, Norman Rowland (b. Kew, 
1862). ‘*A Country Muse”’ (1892 and 
1895); “Α June Romance’’ (1892) ; 
“Orchard Songs’? (1893); ‘‘ Cricket 
Songs ᾽ (1894). 

Galt, John (b. Irvine, Ayrshire, 
May 2nd, 1779; ἃ. Greenock, April 11th, 
1839). ‘* Annals of the Parish ”’ (1821) ; 
“Sir Andrew Wylie’? (1822); ‘The 
Entail’’ (1823), ete. See ‘‘ Autobio- 
graphy” (1833); ‘‘ Literary Life and 
Miscellanies ”” (1834), and Delta’s ‘* Me- 


ΤΟΙ} 


1301 


Gaskell 


Galton, Francis, F.R.S. (Ὁ. 1522). 
“The Telotype’’ (1850); ‘* The Art of 
Travel’? (1855) ; ‘* Vacation Tourists ”’ 
(1861); ‘*Meteorographica’’ (1863) ; 
“ Hereditary Genius ᾽ἢ 11869) ; ** English 
Men of Science, their Nature and Nur- 
ture’? (1874) ; ‘‘ Inquiries into Human 
Faculties’ (1883) ; ‘* Record of Family 
Faculties’? (1884); “ Experiences an 
Prehension’’ (1887); ‘‘ Natural In- 
heritance’’ (1889); ‘Finger Prints” 
(1892). 

Gardiner, Professor Samuel Raw- 
son, LL.D. (b. 1829). ‘‘ The History of 
England from the Accession of James I. 
to the Disgrace of Chief Justice Coke ἢ 
(1863) ; ‘* Prince Charles and the Spanish 
Marriage’? (1869); ‘*The Personal 
Government of Charles I.’’ (1877); 
‘* England under the Duke of Bucking- 
ham and Charles I.’’ (1878); ‘The 
Fall of the Monarchy of Charles I.” 
(1879) ; ‘The History of the Great 
Civil War’’ (1886-91); ‘‘ History of 
the Commonwealth and Protectorate,”’ 
vol. i. (1894). Has edited ‘‘ The Con- 
stitutional Documents of the Puritan 
Revolution’’ (1889), and for the Camden 
Society ‘‘ The Fortescue Papers’’ (1871); 
ΤῊ Hamilton Papers’’ (1880); ‘* Docu- 
ments Illustrating the _ Impeachment of 
the Duke of Buckingham”’ (1889), ete. 


Garnett, Richard, LL.D., C.B. (b. 
Lichfield, February 27th, 1835). “10 in 
Egypt, and other Poems” (1859) ; 
“Iphigenia in Delphi’”’ Nose ‘Poems’? 
(1893) ; Biographies of Carlyle, Emerson, 
Milton, ete. 

Gascoigne, George (b. 1530; d. 
1577). Works first published in 1589, 
as ‘‘ The Pleasauntest Works of George 
Gascoigne, Esquire; newlye compyled 
into One Volume; that is to say, his 
‘Flowers, Herbes, Weedes’; ‘The 
Fruites of Warre’ ; ‘ The Comedy called 
Supposes’ ; ‘The Tragedy of Iocasta ;’ 
“The Steele Glasse’; ‘The Complaynt 
of Philomene’ ; ‘The Story of Ferdinando 
Jeronimi;’ and ‘ The Pleasures at Kenil- 
worth Castle.’’’? See Warton’s ‘* History 
of English Poetry,’’ Morley’s ‘‘ English 
Writers,’’ vols. viii. and xi., and the 
‘* Dictionary of National Biography.”’ 

Gaskell, Elizabeth Cleghorn (b. 
1810; d. 1865). ‘‘ Mary Barton” (1848) ; 
‘* Moorland Cottage ’’ (1850); ‘‘ Cran- 
ford ’’ (1853) ; ‘‘ Ruth’? (1853) ; ‘‘ North 
and South ”’ (1855); ‘‘ Memoir of Char- 
lotte Bronté’’ (1857) ; ‘‘ Cousin Phyllis’ 
(1857) ; ‘* Right at Last ’’ (1860) ; ““ Sil- 
via’s Lovers’? (1863); ‘* Wives and 
Daughters ”’ (unfinished) (1865). 


Gay 


1365 


Godwin 


Gay, John (b. near Barnstaple, 1688 ; 
d. London, December 4th, 1732). ‘‘ Rural 
Sports’? (1711);  ‘*The Shepherd’s 
Wicks? {(117132}.} oPrivia?? {({716}: 
““What d’ye Call It?’ (1715) ; ‘* Three 
Weeksafter Marriage” (1715); ‘* Fables”’ 

1726) ; ‘‘ Beggar’s Opera’’ (1727), etc. 
Lives by Coxe (1796) and Owen (1804). 

Geikie, Rev. John Cunningham, 
D.D. (Ὁ. Edinburgh, 1824). ‘* The Life 
and Words of Christ’’ (1877); ‘‘ The 
English Reformation ’’ (1879) ; ‘* Hours 
with the Bible ᾽ (1880) ; ‘‘ Old Testament 
Characters’? (1884); ‘‘The Holy Land 
and the Bible ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ The Bible by 
Modern Light ’’ (1894) ; ‘* Landmarks of 
Old Testament. History ’’ (1894), ete. 


Gibbon, Edward (b. Putney, April 
2ith, 1737; d. January 16th, 1794). 
‘““The History of the Decline and Fall 
of the Roman Empire’ (1776-88) ; 
“* Essais sur |’ Etude de la Littérature ”’ 
(1761) ; ‘‘ Antiquities of the House of 
Brunswick,’’ and other miscellaneous 
works, published, with Memoir, in 1799, 
under the editorship of John, Lord 
Sheffield. The Autobiography was after- 
wards edited by Dean Milman (1839). 
See Memoir by J. C. Morison (1879), 
and ‘‘ Proceedings of the Gibbon Com- 
memoration’’ (1895). 


Gifford, William (b. Ashburton, 
Devonshire, April, 1756; d. London, 
December 31st, 1826). ‘‘ Baviad’’ (1794); 
** Meviad”’ (1795), ete. Autobiography 
prefixed to his translation of ‘“‘Juvenal.” 


Gilfilan, Rev. George (b. Comrie, 
Perthshire, 1813 ; d. August 13th, 1878). 
“Gallery of Literary Portraits,’’ three 
series (1845, 1849, 1855) ; ‘‘ Bards of the 
Bible’’ (1850); ‘‘Book of British 
Poesy’? (1851); ‘‘ Martyrs, Heroes, 
and Bards of the Scottish Covenant ”’ 
(1852) ; “ὙΠῸ Grand Discovery ”’ (1854); 
‘* History of a Man ”’ (1856) ; ‘‘ Christ- 
ianity and Our Era”’ (1857) ; ‘‘ Night ”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘ Remoter Stars in the Church 
Sky ” (1867); ‘‘ Modern Christian 
Heroes ”’ (1869) ;‘* Life of Sir W. Scott”’ 
(1870); ‘‘ Comrie and its Neighbour- 
hood ’”’ (1872); ‘‘ Life of Rev. W. 
Anderson ”’ (1873) ; ‘‘ Sketches, Literary 
and Theological’’ (1881), etc. Editor 
of ** Library Edition of the Popular 
Poets and Poetry of Britain,” etc. 

Ginsburg, Christian, LL.D. (b. 
Warsaw, 1830). ‘‘ The Karaites, their 
History and Literature ’’ (1862) ; ‘‘ The 
Essenes’’ (1864); ‘‘ The Kabbalah ”’ 
(1865); Commentaries, an edition of the 
Massorah, ete. 


Gissing, Algernon (b. Wakefield, 
November 25th, 1860). ‘‘ Joy Cometh 
in the Morning ”’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Both of this 
Parish ’’ (1889) ; ‘‘A Village Hampden”’ 
(1890) ; ‘* A Moorland Idyll’’ (1891) ; 
“Α Masquerader’’ (1892) ; ‘* At Society’s 
Expense’ (1893); ‘' Between Two 
Opinions ”’? (1893) ; ‘* A Vagabond in 
Arts’ (1894). 


Gissing, George Robert (b. Wake- 
field, 1857). ‘‘ A Life’s Morning ”’ 
(1888) ; “ΒΘ Nether World ’’ (1889) ; 
‘The Emancipated ᾽᾽ (1890) ; ‘*‘ New 
Grub Street’ (1891) ; ‘* Born in Exile”’ 
(1892) ; ‘‘ Denzil Quarrier’’ (1892) ; 
“The Odd Women’? (1893); ‘In the 
Year of Jubilee”? (1894); ‘* Eve's 
Ransom ”’ (1895). 


Gladstone, Right Hon. W. E. (b. 
Liverpool, December 29th, 1809). ‘‘The 
State considered in its Relations with 
the Church”’ (1838); ‘‘ Church Principles 
considered in their Results’’ (1841); 
“* Remarks on recent Commercial Legis- 
lation ’’ (1845) ; ‘‘ Letters to the Earl of 
Aberdeen on the State Prosecutions of 
the Neapolitan Government ”’ (1850-51) ; 
“* Studies on Homer and the Homeric 
Age’? (1858); ‘‘Wedgwood: an Ad- 
dress’’ (1863); ‘‘ Ancient Greece : an 
Address ’’ (1864) ; ‘‘ A Chapter of Auto- 
biography”’ (1868) ; ‘‘On ‘Ecce Homo’”’ 
(1868); ‘‘Juventus Mundi: Gods and 
Men of the Heroic Age in Greece’’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ The Vatican Decrees” (1874) ; 
“* Vaticanism’”’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Rome and the 
Latest Fashions in Religion ’’ (1875) ; 
‘* Homeric Synchronism ᾽᾽, (1876) ; ‘‘ The 
Turk in Europe”’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Lessons in 
Massacre’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Gleanings of Past 
Years’ (1879) ; ‘‘ The Trish Question ”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ The Impregnable Rock of 
Holy Scripture’’ (1890) ; ““ Landmarks 
of Homeric Study ’’ (1890) ; ‘*‘ An Acad- 
emic Sketch’ (1892) ; ‘‘ Horace’s Odes 
and the Carmen Seculare,’’ translation 
(1895); ‘‘ The Psalter”? (1895); and 
various pamphlets and magazine articles. 
Collected edition of his Speeches, edited 
by A. W. Hutton and H. J. Cohen, in 
progress. See ‘‘ Political Portraits,’’ re- 
printed from the Daily News; R. H 
Hutton’s ‘‘Sketches of Contemporary 
Statesmen ;”’ ‘‘ Life’? by Barnett 
Smith (1879) ; by G. W. E. Russell ; 
and H. W. Lucy’s ‘Diary of Two 
Parliaments’? (1885), and the same 
author’s biography (1895). See also 
** Macaulay’s Essays.”’ 


Godwin, Mary. 
CRAFT.) 


(See WoLLSTONE- 


Godwin 


1366 


Gower 


Godwin, William (b. Wisbech, 
Cambridgeshire, March 8rd, 1756; ἃ, 
London, April 7th, 1836).  ‘*Sketches 
of History ’’ (1784) ; ‘* Political Justice ”’ 
(1798) ;_ ‘Caleb Williams’’ (1794) ; 
“« Life of Lord Chatham;’’ ‘‘Cloudesley ;’’ 
‘‘Damon and Delia;’’ ‘ Deloraine ; ”’ 
‘The Enquirer ;’’ ‘‘The Genius of 
Christianity Unveiled ;’’ ‘* On Popula- 
tion’’ (1820); ‘The Herald of Litera- 
ture ;’’ ** The History of the Common- 
wealth of England ; ”” * Tmogen Ὁ" 
‘“‘ Lives of the Necromancers”’ (1834) ; 
“ὁ Mandeville ;’’ ‘ Life of Geoffrey 
Chaucer”? (1803); ‘‘St. Leon,’”’ and 
“Thoughts on Man.’’ He also pub- 
lished a Memoir of his wife in 1798. See 
the ‘‘ Life’? by Kegan Paul (1876), and 
Leslie Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours in a Library.” 


Goldsmith, Oliver (b. Pallas, Long- 
ford, Ireland, November 10th, 1728; d. 
London, April 4th, 1774). ‘‘ Essays ”’ 
(1758-65) ; ‘*The Bee’ (1759) ; ‘* An 
Enquiry into the Present State of Polite 
Learning’? (1759); ‘* Biographies ἢ 
(Voltaire, 1759 ; Thomas Parnell, 1768 ; 
Bolingbroke, 1770; Richard Nash) ; 
“The Citizen of the World”’ (1760-62) ; 
“The Traveller; or, a Prospect of 
Society’? (1764); ‘‘ The Vicar of Wake- 
field ’’(1766) ; ‘‘ The Hermit: a Ballad”’ 
(1766); ‘*'The Good- Natured Man ”’ 
(1768) ; ‘‘ The Deserted Village”’ (1770) ; 
“* She Stoops to Conquer ”’ (1773) ; ‘‘ Re- 
taliation: a Poem”’ (1774) ; ‘‘ The Cap- 
tivity: an Oratorio;’’ some miscella- 
neous poems and various compilations, 
including ‘‘ Memoirs of a Protestant 
condemned to the Galleys of France for 
his Religion ;”’ ‘‘ History of England in 
a Series of Letters from a Nobleman to 
his Son ;”’ ‘‘ A Survey of Experimental 
Philosophy ;’’ ‘‘ A Short English Gram- 
mar;’’a translation of a French ‘‘ His- 
tory of Philosophy ;’’ a collection of 
““Poems for Young Ladies ;’’ another 
collection called ‘‘ Beauties of English 
Poetry ;”’? a “‘Roman History;” a 
‘* History of the Earth and of Animated 
Nature ;’’ a ‘“‘ History of England;” a 
“History of Greece ;’’ a translation of 
Scarron’s ‘‘ Comic Romance ;’’ and con- 
tributions to The Gentleman’s Journal, 
The Lady’s Magazine, The Westminster 
Magazine, The Public Ledger, The Busy 
Body, The Critical Review, The Monthly 
Review, and The British Magazine. His 
Life has been written by Sir James Prior 
(1837), John Forster (1848), W. Irving 
(1849), W. Black (1879), and Henry 
Austin Dobson (1888). 


Goodwin, Harvey, D.D., Bishop of 


Carlisle (Ὁ. King’s Lynn, 1818 ; ἃ. Novem- 
ber 25th, 1891). ‘*Memoir of Bishop 
Mackenzie’? (1864); ‘‘ Essays on the 
Pentateuch’’ (1867); ‘‘ Walks in the 
Regions of Science and Faith’’ (1883) ; 
‘The Foundations of the Creed ’’ (1889), 
ete. 


Gordon-Cumming,Miss Constance 
Frederica (b. Altyre, May 26th, 1837). 
‘* From the Hebrides to the Himalayas ”’ 
(1876); “Αὐ Home in Fiji’ (1881) ; 
‘© A Lady’s Cruise in a French Man-of- 
War ”’ (1882) ; ‘* Fire Fountains ᾽᾽ (1883); 
‘“‘Granite Crags’? (1884); “ }7@ Corn- 
wall to Egypt”? (1885) ; ‘‘ Wanderings 
in China ’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Two Happy Years 
in Ceylon”’ (1891), ete. 


Gore, the Rev. Canon Charles, 
(Ὁ. 1853). ** Roman Catholic Claims ”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ The Ministry of the Christian 
Church’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The Incarnation of 
the Son of God”’ (1891). Editor of and 
contributor to ‘* Lux Mundi;’’ also 
edited G. J. Romanes’ ‘‘ Thoughts on 
Religion ”’ (1895), ete. 


Gosse, Edmund William (b. London, 
September 218, 1849). ‘‘On Viol and 
Flute’’ (1873); ‘‘ King Erik’ (1876) ; 
“The Unknown Lover” (1878) ; 
‘* Studies in the Literature of Northern 
Europe ᾽ (1879) ; ‘‘ New Poems ᾽᾿ (1879); 
‘A Selection of English Odes’’ (1881) ; 
“ Gray,’’ in the Lnglish Men of Letters 
series (1882); ‘‘A Memoir of Cecil 
Lawson ’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ A Critical Essay on 
George Tinworth’’ (1883); ‘‘Seven- 
teenth-Century Studies”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ The 
Works of Thomas Gray’? (1884) ; 
“‘Firdausi in Exile’? (1885); ‘‘ From 
Shakespeare to Pope’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Sir W. 
Raleigh’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Northern Studies’’ 
(1886) ; ‘* Life of William Congreve’’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘ History of Eighteenth-Century 
Literature’’ (1889); “1.116 of P. H. 
Gosse’’ (his father) (1890) ; ‘‘ On Viol and 
Flute’’ Poems (collected) (1890) ; “Robert 
Browning : Personalia ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Gossip 
in a Library”’ (1891) ; ‘‘ The Jacobean 
Poets”? (1891); ‘‘ The Secret of Nar- 
cisse’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ Questions at Issue ”’ 
(1893) ; “Τὰ Russet and Silver,’’? poems 
(1894) ; ‘‘ The Works of L. T. Beddoes ”’ 
(1894). Editor of Heinemunn’s Inter- 
national Library, ete. 


Gower, John (b. 1325?; d. 1402). 
‘Speculum Meditantis,’’ in French; 
‘Vox Clamantis,’’ in Latin; ‘‘ Confessio 
Amantis,’? in English. See Warton’s 
“History of English Poetry,’’ and 
Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,”’ vols. iv.- 
Vi, 


Grand 


1367 


Greene 


Grand, Madame Sarah, vere Mrs. 
Frances Εἰ. MacFall. ‘‘ Ideala”’ (1888) ; 
‘“ A Domestic Experiment ’’ (1891) ; 
“Singularly Deluded ’’ (1893); ‘‘The 
Heavenly Twins ’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ Our Mani- 
fold Nature ’’ (1894). 


Grant, James (b. Edinburgh, August 
Ist, 1822; d. 1886). ‘‘The Romance of 
War; or, Highlanders in Spain ’’ (1846); 
‘* Highlanders of Belgium”’ (1847) ; ‘‘ The 
Adventures of an Aide-de-Camp”’ (1848); 
‘*Memoirs of Kirkcaldy of Grange ”’ 
(1849); ‘‘ Walter Fenton’ (1850) ; 
“Edinburgh Castle’’ (1850); ‘‘ Bothwell; 
or, the Days of Mary, Queen of Scots ”’ 
(1851); ‘‘ Memoirs of Sir John Hep- 
burn, Marshal of France, and Colonel 
of the Scots Brigade”? (1851); ‘‘Jane 
Seton ; or, the King’s Advocate ’’ (1853); 
“Philip Rollo; or, the Scottish Mus- 
keteers’’ (1854); ‘‘ Frank Hilton; or, 
the Queen’s Own” (1855); ‘‘ The 
Yellow Frigate’’ (1855) ; ‘‘ The Phan- 
tom Regiment ”’ (1850) ; ‘‘ Harry Ogil- 
vie; or, the Black Dragoon ᾽᾽ (1856) ; 
‘*Taura Everingham”’ (1857) ; ‘‘ Mem- 
oirs of the Marquis of Montrose ᾽᾽ (1858); 
‘“ Arthur Blane; or, the Hundred 
Cuirassiers’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ The Cavaliers of 
Fortune’’ (1858); ‘‘Lucy Arden: a 
Tale of 1715” (1859) ; ‘‘ Legends of the 
Black Watch’? (1859); ‘‘ Mary of 
Loraine ’’ (1860); ‘‘ Oliver Ellis; or, 
the Fusiliers’? (1861); ‘‘ Dick Rodney ; 
or, the Adventures of an Eton Boy”’ 
(1861) ; ‘‘ The Captain of the Guard ”’ 
(1862) ; ‘‘ The Adventures of Rob Roy”’ 
(1863) ; ‘‘ Letty Hyde’s Lovers”’ (1863); 
**Second to None”’ (1864) ; ‘‘ The King’s 
Own Borderers’? (1865); ‘‘ The Con- 
stable of France ’’ (1866) ; ‘‘ The White 
Cockade; or, Faith and Fortitude ”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘ First Love and Last Love”’ 
(1868) ; ‘‘ The Secret Dispatch” (1868) ; 
“<The Girl He Married ”’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Jack 
Manly, his Adventures ”’ (1870) ; ‘‘ Lady 
Wedderburn’s Wish ’’ (1870); ‘‘ Only 
an Ensign’? (1871); ‘‘ Under the Red 
Dragon’’ (1871); ‘‘ British Battles on 
Land and Sea’”’ (1873); ‘‘Shall I Win 
Her ?”’ (1874); ‘‘ Fairer than a Fairy”’ 
(1874); ‘*One of the Six Hundred”’ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ Morley Ashton ᾽ (1876); ‘Six 
Years Ago”? (1877); ‘‘Old and New 
Edinburgh ;’’ and other works. 


Gray, Thomas (b. London, Decem- 
ber 26th, 1716; d. Cambridge, July 30th, 
1771). ‘‘Ode ona Distant Prospect of 
Eton College”? (1742) ; “‘ Ode on Spring,”’ 
“Hymn to Adversity,’ ‘‘ Elegy written 
in a Country Churchyard ”’ (1751) ; ‘‘ The 
Alliance of Education and Government,” 


“Ode to Vicissitude,’’ ‘‘ The Progress of 
Poesy,’’ and ‘‘ The Bard”’ (1757) ; ‘‘ Ode 
on the Installation of the Duke of Graf- 
ton to the Chancellorship of the Univer- 
sity of Cambridge’’ (1769) ; and some 
minor pieces. His poems have been 
edited by Gilbert Wakefield (1786), Mit- 
ford (1835-43), Moultrie (1845), E. W. 
Gosse (1884), and several others. The 
standard Biography is that by Mason, 
published in 1778. There is another by 
Gosse, in the English Men of Letters 
series. For Criticism, sce Johnson’s 
‘* Lives of the Poets,’’ Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Lec- 
tures on the English Poets,’ Roscoe’s 
ἐς Essays,’’ Drake’s ‘‘ Literary Hours,’’ 
Brydges’ ‘‘Censura Literaria,’’ and 
other works. 


Green, John Richard (Ὁ. 1837; 
d. 1883). ‘‘A Short History of the 
English People” (1874) ; ‘‘ A History of 
the English People’’ (1877-80) ; ‘‘ The 
Making of England” (1882); ‘‘ The 
Conquest of England ”’ (1884). 


Green, Mrs. John Richard, τέο 
Stopford (Ὁ. Kells, co. Meath). ‘‘ Henry 
the Second’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Town Life in the 
Fifteenth Century ”’ (1894). 


Green, Professor Thomas Hill 
(Ὁ. 1836; d. 1882). ‘* Prolegomena to 
Ethics,’’ edited by A. C. Bradley (1883). 
‘* Works,’’ edited by R. L. Nettleship 
(1885-88). ‘‘ Lectures on the Principles 
of Political Obligations”’ (1895). Edited 
the Philosophical Works of David Hume. 


Greene, Robert (b. Norwich, 1560; 
d. September 3rd, 1592). A full cata- 
logue of this writer’s works may be 
found in Lowndes’s ‘ Bibliographer’s 
Manual.’? Romances — ‘‘ Menaphon”’ 
(1587) ; ‘‘ Pandosto, the Triumph of Time ; 
or, the History of Doraustus and Fau- 
nia ’’ (1588) ; ‘‘ A Pair of Turtle Doves ; 
or, the Tragicall History of Bellora 
and Fidelio’’ (1606) ; ‘‘ The History of 
Arbasto, King of Denmark”’’ (1617). 
Autobiography—‘‘ Greene’s Never Too 
Late’? (1590); ‘‘ Farewell to Folly”’ 
(1591) ; ‘‘ Greene’s Groat’s-worth of Wit, 
bought with a Million of Repentance”’ 
(1592) ; ‘‘Greene’s Vision’”’ (1592) ; ‘* The 
Repentance of Robert Greene’’ (1592). 
Plays — ““ Mammilia’’ (1593); ‘‘ The 
Honourable Historie of Frier Bacon and 
Frier Bongay ”’ (1594) ; ‘‘ The Historie of 
Orlando Furioso’’ (1594); ‘‘ Comical 
Historie of Alphonsus, King of Arra- 
gon;”’? ‘A Looking-Glasse for Lon- 
don and England’’ (with Lodge, 
1594) ; ‘‘The Scottish Historie of 
James IY.’’ (1598). Miscellaneous — 


Greg 


1368 


Hakluyt 


‘““The Myrrour of Modestie’’ (1584) ; 
**Morando’’ (1584); ‘* Euphues, his 
Censure to Philautus’’ (1587); ‘* Peri- 
medes, the Blacksmith ᾽ (1588) ; ‘* Alci- 
da’’ (1588) ; ‘* The Spanish Masquerado”’ 
(1589). For Biography and Criticism, 
sce Collier’s ‘* Poetical Decameron ”’ and 
‘** Dramatic Poetry,’’ Campbell's ‘* Speci- 
mens οὗ the English Poets,’’? Hazlitt’s 
‘Age of Elizabeth,’’ Dyce’s edition of 
Greene’s Works, Prydges’ “ὁ Censura 
Literaria,’’ Beloe’s ‘* Anecdotes,’’ Rit- 
son’s ** Bibliographia Poetiea,’? Wood's 
** FWasti Oxomieuses,’? The Retrospective 
Review, the ‘‘Shakespeare Library,’’ 
Jusserand’s “ἢ English Novel in the Time 
of Elizabeth,’ the “ Dictionary of 
National Biography,’’? and Morley’s 
“English Writers,’’ vols. x. and xi. 


Greg, William Rathbone (bh. 1809, 
d. 1881). ‘*‘Why are Women Redund- 
ant 7’’ (1869) ; “ Essays on Political and 
Social Science;’’ ‘‘ Enigmas of Life’’ 
(1872); ‘‘Literary and Social Judg- 
ments ;’’ ‘* Political Problems ;”’ ‘ The 
Creed of Christendom” (8rd edition, 
1873) ; ‘‘ The Great Duel, its Meaning 
and Results;”’ “ἢ Truth versus Editica- 
tion ;”? ‘Rocks Ahead; or, Warnings 
of Cussandra’’ (1874) ; ‘* Mistaken Aims 
and Attainable Ideals of the Artisan 
Class’? (1876); ‘‘ Literary and Social 
Judgments’? (1877); “ὁ Miscellaneous 
Essays’ (1881-82). 

Greville, Fulke (Ὁ. 1556; d. 1628). 
“The Life of the Renowned Sir Philip 
Sidney ’’ (published 1652) ; ‘* A Letter to 
an Honourable Lady ;”’’ ‘‘ A Letter of 
Travell;’’ ‘* Celica, a Collection of 109 
Songs ; ‘‘ A Treatise on Human Learn- 
ing, in 15 Stanzas;’’ ‘‘ An Inquisition 
upon Fame and Honour, in 68 Stanzas ;”’ 
‘““ A Treatise on Wars, in 68 Stanzas ;”’ 
“* Alaham,”’ a tragedy ; “‘ Mustapha,” a 
tragedy. Some ot his poems appeared 
in ‘‘England’s Helicon.”? His ‘‘ Re- 
mains ’’? were published in 1670. 


Grote, George (b. Clay Hill, Beck- 
enham, November 17th, 1794 ; d. London, 
June 18th, 1871). ‘‘ The Essentials of 
Parhamentary Reform”’ (1831) ; ‘‘ The 
History of Greece’’ (1846-56) ; ‘‘ Plato 
and other Companions of Sokrates”’ 
(1865) ; ‘* A Review of Mill’s Examin- 
ation of Sir W. Hamilton’’ (1868) ; 
“* Aristotle’? (1872). Sce the ‘‘ Life”’ 
by his wife (1873), and ‘*‘ Minor Works”’ 
(1873). 

Grove, Sir George, D.C.L. (b. 
Clapham, 1820). Has edited Mac- 
millan’s Magazine, and the “ Dictionary 


of Music and Musicians’? (1879-89), 
to which he was one of the chief con- 
tributors, as also to Smith’s ‘‘ Dictionary 
of the Bible.”’ 


Grundy, Sydney (b. Manchester, 
1848). ‘The Days of his Vanity” 
(1876). Has also written many plays. 


Guthrie, Thomas, D.D. (b. Brechin, 
Fortarshire, 1803; d. February 24th, 
1873). ‘* Lhe Gospel in Ezekiel *’ (1855) ; 
‘*The City: its Sins and Sorrows ”’ (1887) ; 
‘Christ and the Inheritance of the 
Saints’’ (1858); ‘* Seed-time and Har- 
vest of Ragged Schools’? (1860) ; 
‘* Speaking to the Heart ᾽ (1862) ; ‘‘ The 
Angels’ Song’”’ (1865) ; ‘‘ The Parables ”’ 
(1866); ‘*Out of Harness’’ (1867); 
“Studies of Character from the Old 
Testament ’’ (1868 and 1870) ; ‘‘ Sundays 
Abroad’’ (1871); ete. Autobiography, 
with Memoir, by his sous (J874-75). 


Haggard, H. Rider (b. June 22nd, 
1850). ** Cetewayo and his White 
Neighbours ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Dawn ”’ (1884) ; 
“The Witch’s Head’? (1885); ‘‘ King 
Solomon’s Mines”’ (1885) ; ‘‘She’’ (1886) ; 
ἐς Jess’? (1887); ‘* Allan Quatermain”’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘Mr. Meeson’s Will’? (1888) ; 
“ Maiwa’s Revenge’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Colonel 
Quaritch, V.C.’’ (1888) ; ‘* Allan’s Wife, 
and other Tales’’ (1889) ; ““ Cleopatra ”’ 
(1889) ; ““ Beatrice’’ (1890); ‘‘ The 
World’s Desire,’ with Mr. Andrew Lang 
(1850); ‘*Eric Brighteyes’’ (1891) ; 
“« Nada the Lily ”’ (1892) ; ‘* Montezuma’s 
Daughter’? (1893); ‘*Dawn’’ (1894) ; 
“‘The People of the Mist ’’ (1895). 

Hake, Thomas Gordon, M.D., 
M.R.C.P. (b. 1809; ἃ, 1895). ‘*‘ Poetic 
Lucubrations’’ (1828) ; ‘The Piromides”’ 
(1839) ; ‘* Vates ”’ (1840) ; ‘‘ The World’s 
Epitaph ’’ (1866); ‘‘ Madeline, etc.” 
(1871); ‘‘ Parables and Tales ”’ (1872) ; 
“New Symbols ᾽ (1875) ; ‘‘ Legends of 
the Morrow’’ (1878); ‘‘ Maiden Kc- 
stasy’’ (1880); ‘‘The Serpent Play ”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘The New Day” (1890) ; 
“Memoirs of Eighty Years’? (1892) ; 
“* Selected Poems ”’ (1894). 


‘Hakluyt, Richard (Ὁ. 1553; d.1616).. 
Voyages published in the following 
order :—(1) ‘‘ Divers Voyages touching 
the Discoverie of America and the 
Lands adjacent unto the Same ’’ (1682) 5 
(2) ‘*Foure Voyages unto Florida” 
(1587) ; and (8) ** The Principal Naviga- 
tions, Voyages, Traffiques, and Dis- 


Hall 


1369 


Hardy 


coveries of the English Nation, made by 
Sea or over Land, to the Most Remote 
and Farthest Distant Quarters of the 
Earth”? (1589). Of these, a new edition 
was published in 1809-12, followed by 
a supplementary volume in 1812, con- 
taining several Voyages which Hakluyt 
had recommended for publication, For 
biographical and bibliographical par- 
ticulars, sce the ‘‘ Biographia Britan- 
nica,’? Oldys’s ‘ Librarian,’? Wood’s 
“ΕἸ Athenze Oxonienses,’? Lowndes’s 
“εἰ Bibliographer’s Manual,’? and _ the 
“Dictionary of National Biography.” 


Hall, Samuel Carter (Ὁ. 1801; d. 
March 16th, 1880). ‘‘Treland’’ (1841- 
43); ‘‘ Poems ᾽᾽ (1850); ‘‘ Book of the 
Thames’? (1859); ‘‘Book of South 
Wales,”’ etc. (with Mrs. Hall) (1861) ; 
“Ὁ Memories of Great Men and Women of 
the Age’’ (1870); ‘‘A Memory of T. 
Moore”’ (1879) ; ‘* Retrospect of a Long 
Life ”’ (1883), ete. 


Hallam, Henry (b. Windsor, 1777; 
d. Penshurst, January 21st, 1859). ‘‘ View 
of Europe during the Middle Ages ”’ 
(1818) ; ‘‘ Constitutional History of Eng- 
land”? (1827) ; ‘* An Introduction to the 
Literature of Europe’’ (1837-39), and 
various essays in The Edinburgh Review. 
Sve sketch of his ‘‘ Life’? by Dean Mil- 
man in “ὁ Transactions of the Royal 
Society,” vol. x. 

Hamerton, Philip Gilbert (b. Lane- 
side, Shaw, Lancashire, September 10th, 
1834; ἃ. November, 1894). ‘‘ A Painter’s 
Camp in the Highlands”’ (1862); ‘‘ Con- 
temporary French Painters’? (1867) ; 
“ Etching and Etchers’’ (1868) ; ‘‘ Wen- 
derholme’’ (1869); ‘‘The Intellectual 
Lite ’’ (1873) ; ‘‘ Life of Turner”’ (1878); 
‘“*Modern Frenchmen ’”’ (1878); ‘‘ The 
Graphic Arts ᾿ (1882) ; ‘‘ Human Inter- 
course ’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Landscape ’’ (1885) ; 
‘‘ Imagination in Landscape Painting ”’ 
(1837) ; ‘‘ The Saone: a Summer Voyage ”’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘ French and English ᾽᾽ (1889); 
“Portfolio Papers’’ (1889) ; ‘* Drawing 
and Engraving ᾽᾽ (1892); ‘‘Man in Art”’ 
(1892) ; ‘‘ Present State of the Fine Arts 
in France’ (1892). 

Hamilton, Sir William (b. Glas- 
gow, March 3rd, 1791; d.1856). Author 
of ‘* Discussions on Philosophy ”’ (1852) ; 
and of lectures on metaphysics and logic, 
published by Professors Mansel and 
Veitch im 1859-60. Edited the works 
of Reid, with Notes and Dissertations 
(1846). See Veitch’s ‘‘ Memoirs”? and 
Ueberweg’s ‘‘ History of Philosophy.”’ 


Hamley, Lieut.-Gen. Sir Edward 


Bruce (b. Bodmin, April 27th, 1824; d. 
August 14th, 1893). ‘* The Story of the 
Campaign of Sebastopol’’ (1855) ; ‘* Wel- 
lington’s Career’ (1860) ; ‘‘ The Opera- 
tions of War’ (1866); ‘‘ Voltaire”’ 
(1877); ‘‘ National Defence’’ (1889) ; 
‘* Shakespeare’s Funeral, and Other 
Papers’? (1889); ‘‘The War in the 
Crimea” (1890), ete. ‘‘ Life,’’ by Alexan- 
der Innes Shand (1895). 


Hanna, Rev. Professor William, 
LL.D. (b. 1808; d. May 24th, 1882). 
““Notes on a Visit to Hayti’’ (1836) ; 
“On Religion ’’ (1857) ; ‘‘ Wycliffe and 
the Huguenots’? (1860); ‘‘ Last Days 
ot Our Lord’s Passion ’’ (1862) ; ‘‘ The 
Forty Days After Our Lord’s Resurrec- 
tion’’ (1863) ; ‘‘ Earlier Years of Our 
Lord’s Life on Earth’ (1864); ‘‘ The 
Passion Week”’ (1866) ; ‘‘ The Ministry 
in Galilee’’ (1868); ‘‘ Our Lord’s Life 
on Earth” (1869); ‘‘The Close of the 
Ministry’? (of Jesus Christ) (1869) ; 
‘““Wars of the Huguenots’’ (1871). 
Edited the North British Review. 


Hannay, James (b. 1827; d. 1873). 
“Biscuits and Grog ’’ (1848); “Α Claret 
Cup”’ (1848) ; ‘‘ King Dobbs’ (1848) ; 
“ Hearts are Trumps ”’ (1849) ; ‘‘ Single- 
ton Fontenoy’’ (1850); ‘‘ Sketches in 
Ultramarine’ (1853); ‘‘ Satire and 
Satirists’? (1854) ; ““ Eustace Conyers’’ 
(1855); ‘‘ Essays from the Quarterly”’ 
(1861) ; ‘‘ A Course of English Litera- 
ture’’ (1866) ; and ‘‘ Studies on Thack- 
eray’’ (1869). Edited The Edinburgh 
Courant. 


Hardy, Miss Iza Duffus (b. Enfield). 
“ Between Two Fires’’ (1873) ; ‘‘ Glen- 
cairn’’ (1876); ‘‘Only a Love Story ”’ 
(1877); ‘‘A Broken Faith’ (1878) ; 
‘Friend and Lover’ (1880); ‘‘ Love, 
Honour, and Obey’ (1881); ‘The 
Love That He Passed By’”’ (1884) ; 
“* Between Two Oceans” (1884): ‘‘ Hearts 
or Diamonds’ (1885): ‘‘ Oranges and 
Alligators’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ The Girl He Did 
Not Marry’ (1887); ‘‘ Love in Idle- 
ness”’ (1887) ; ‘‘A New Othello ”’ (1890) ; 
“«(Α Woman’s Loyalty’ (1893); “A 
Buried Sin’’ (1893), ete. 


Hardy, Thomas. (Ὁ. Dorsetshire, 
June 2nd, 1840). ‘* Under the Green- 
wood Tree’’ (1872); ‘‘ A Pair of Blue 
Eyes”’ (1873) ; ‘‘ Far from the Madding 
Crowd”’ (1874) ; ‘‘ The Hand of Ethel- 
berta’’ (1876); ‘‘The Return of the 
Native’’ (1878); ‘‘The Trumpet Major”’ 
(1880) : ‘‘ A Laodicean”’ (1881); ‘* Two 
on a Tower’’ (1882); ‘‘The Mayor of 
Casterbridge’’ (1886); ‘‘The Wood- 


Hayward 


(1892) ; ‘* The Dorsetshire Labourer ”’ 
(article in Longman’s Magazine) (1893) ; 
‘* Life’s Little Ironies’’ (1894). 


Hare, Augustus John Cuthbert 
(Ὁ. 1894). ‘‘Epitaphs from Country 
Churehyards”’ (1856); ‘* Walks in 
Reme’’ (1871) ; ‘*‘ Memorials of a Quiet 
Life ’’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Wanderings in Spain”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘Days Near Rome’’ (1875) ; 
‘** Cities of Northern and Central Italy ἢ 
(1876); ‘‘ Walks in London’? (1878) ; 
“ Cities of Southern Italy and Sicily ”’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ Cities of Central and North- 
ern Italy’’ (1884); ‘‘ Venice’’ (1884) ; 
ἐς Studies in Russia ’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Sketches 
in Holland and Scandinavia’’ (1885) ; 
‘Paris’? (1887); ‘‘ North - Eastern 
France’? (1890); ‘* South - Eastern 
France’’ (1890); ““ South- Western 
France ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Memorials of Char- 
lotte, Countess Canning, and Louisa, 
Marchioness of Waterford’? (1893) ; 
‘Sussex’? (1894); ‘‘Life and Letters 
of Maria Edgeworth ”’ (1894). 


Hare, Ven. Julius Charles (b. 
1795; ἃ. 1855). ‘The Victory of Faith,”’ 
ete. (1840); ‘* Mission of the Comforter,” 
etc. (1846) ; ‘‘ Guesses at Truth,’’ with 
A. W. Hare (1847); ‘‘ Vindication of 
Luther ’’ (1855) ; ‘‘ Charges to the Clergy 
of the Archdeaconry of Lewes’’ (1856) ; 
translated (with Connop Thirlwall) Nie- 
buhr’s ‘‘ History of Rome,”’ ete. 


Harrington, Sir John (b. 1561; 
ἃ. 1612). ‘* Orlando Furioso, translated 
into Heroical English Verse’’ (1591) ; 
‘«The Metamorphosis of Ajax ”’ (1596) ; 
‘“‘The Englishman’s Doctor; or, the 
School of Salerne’’ (1609) ; ‘f The Most 
Elegant and Witty Epigrams of Sir 
J. Η.᾽ (1615). 


Harrison, Frederic (b. London, 
October 18th, 1831). ‘*‘ The Meaning 
of History’? (1862); ‘‘ England and 
France’’ (1866) ; ‘‘Questions for a Re- 
formed Parliament’? (1867); ‘‘ Order 
and Progress’”’ (1875) ; a translation of 
Comte’s ‘‘ Social Statics ’’ (1875) ; ‘* The 
Present .and the Future’? (1880) ; 
‘“‘ Martial Law in Cabul”’ (1880) ; 
‘* Lectures on Education ’’ (1883) ; ‘‘On 
the Choice of Books’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Oliver 
Cromwell’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Annals of an Old 
Manor House’’ (1893), ete. Editor of 
the Positivist Calendar. 


Hatch, Edwin, D.D. (Ὁ. Derby, 1835; 
d. November llth, 1889). ‘* Student’s 


Handbook to the University and Col- 
leges of Oxford’’ (1873); ‘ Organisa- 
tion of Early Christian Churches’’ 
(1881) ; ‘‘ Progress in Theology ’’ (1885); 
“Study of LEcclesiastical History ”’ 
(1885) ; ‘Growth of Church Institu- 
tions’’ (1887); ‘‘Studies in Biblical 
Greek ’’ (1889). 


Hatton, Joseph (b. Andover, Feb- 
ruary 3rd, 1839). ‘‘ Christbpher Henrick”’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ Clytie’’ (1874); ‘‘ The Queen 
of Bohemia’’ (1877); ‘‘ Cruel London ”’ 
(1878); ‘* Three Recruits”? (1880) ; ‘‘ To- 
day in America’’ (1881); ‘* The New 
Ceylon”’ (1881); ‘‘ Journalistic London ᾽ἢ 
(1882) ; ‘‘ Henry Irving’s Impressions of 
America’’ (1884); ‘John Needham’s 
Double’’ (1885); “ΒΘ Old House at 
Sandwich ’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Captured by Can- 
nibals’’ (1888) ; ‘* Reminiscences of J. 
L. Toole’’ (1889); “ΒΥ Order of the 
Czar’ (1890) ; ‘* The Princess Mazaroff ᾽ἢ 
(1891); ‘‘Cigarette Papers’? (1892) ; 
“‘Under the Great Seal’? (1893); “Τὴ 
Jest and Earnest’ (1893) ; ‘‘ The Ban- 
ishment of Jessop Blythe ”’ (1895), ete. 


Havergal, Frances Ridley (b. Ast- 
ley, Worcestershire, 1836; ἃ, 1879). 
Author of many devotional poems, οἷο., 
of which a collected edition appeared in 
three volumes in 1881, supplemented by 
further volumes of verse and _ story. 
“ὁ Memorials,’? by M. V. G. Havergal, 
her sister (1880). 


Haweis, Rev. Hugh Reginald (b. 
Egham, April 3, 1838). ‘‘ Music and 
Morals’? (1871); ‘‘Thoughts for the 
Times’’ (1872); ‘‘Speech in Season’”’ 
(1874) ; ** Current Coin’ (1876) ; ‘* Ar- 
rows in the Air’’ (1878); ‘‘ American 
Humorists’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ My Musical Life ”’ 
(1884) ; ‘‘ Christ and Christianity ”’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘ Sir Morell Mackenzie’’ (1893), 
etc. 


Hawker, Robert Stephen (b. 1805; 
ἃ. 1875). ‘‘ Ecclesia ’’ (1841) ; ‘‘ Echoes 
from Old Cornwall’ (1845); ‘‘ The 
Quest of the Sangrail’’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Corn- 
ish Ballads’? (1869); ‘‘ Footprints of 
Former Men in Cornwall”’ (1870). See 
Baring-Gould’s ‘‘ Vicar of Morwenstow”’ 
and F. G. Lee’s “‘ Life of R. 5. Hawker.’’ 


Hayward, Abraham (b. 1803; d. 
1884). ‘The Art of Dining’’ (1852) ; 
‘Biographical and Critical Essays’’ 
(1858); ‘‘ The Letters and Remains of 
Mrs. Piozzi’’ (1861) ; ‘‘ Selections from 
the Diary of a Lady of Quality ’’ (1864) ; 
‘‘Goethe, a Biographical Sketch”’ (1877); 
ἐς Short Rules of Modern Whist’’ (1878) ; 
“Sketches of Eminent Statesmen and 


Hazlitt 


1371 


Henry 


Writers’? (1880). He also translated 
Goethe’s ‘‘ Faust’? (1883), edited the 
Law Magazine, and contributed con- 
stantly to the Ldinburgh and Quarterly 
Reviews, See his ‘Correspondence ”’ 
(1886). 

Hazlitt, William (b. Maidstone, 
April 10th, 1778; d. September 18th, 
1830). ‘‘An Essay on the Principles 
of Human Action’? (1805); ‘‘ Free 
Thoughts on Public Affairs’? (1806) ; 
“A Reply to Malthus’? (1807); ‘‘ The 
Eloquence of the British Senate”’ (1807); 
“A New Grammar of the English 
Tongue’’ (1810) ; ‘‘ Memoirs of Thomas 
Holeroft’’ (1816) ; ‘‘ Characters of Shake- 
speare’s Plays”’ (1817); ‘‘The Round 
Table’? (1817); “Α View of the English 
Stage ’’ (1818) ; ‘‘ Lectures on the Eng- 
lish Poets’? (1818) ; ‘‘ Lectures on the 
English Comic Writers ’’ (1819) ; ‘‘ Poli- 
tical Essays’? (1819) ; ‘‘Table Talk”’ 
(1821); ‘*Lectures on the Dramatic 
Literature of the Age of Elzabeth”’ 
(1821) ; ‘‘ Characteristics in the Manner 
of Rochefoucauld’s Maxims’ (1823) ; 
‘‘Tiber Amoris; or, the New Pygma- 
lion’? (1823); ‘‘ Notes of a Journey 
through France and Italy”? (1825) ; 
“The Spirit of the Age; or, Contem- 
porary Portraits ’’ (1825) ; ‘‘ Select Poets 
of Great Britain ’’ (1825) ; ‘‘ The Plain 
Speaker ; or, Opinions on Books, Men, 
and Things’’ (1826); ‘‘The Life of 
Napoleon Bonaparte’’ (1828); ‘* Con- 
versations with James Northcote” 
(1830) ; and ‘A Life of Titian ”’ (1830). 
See the ‘ Life’’ by his grandson (1867), 
and the ‘‘ Literary Remains,’’ with the 
first Lord Lytton’s Introduction, and 
Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours in a Library. 

Head, Sir Francis Bond (b. near 
Rochester, 1793; ἃ. July 28rd, 1875). 
‘* Rough Notes on the Pampas ”’ (1826) ; 
“© \ Lite of Bruce the Traveller ’’ (1830) ; 
‘‘ Bubbles from the Brunnen of Nassau’”’ 
(1833) ; “‘ The Emigrant”? (1846) ; ‘‘ The 
Defenceless State of Britain’? (1850) ; 
“A Faggot of French Sticks’? (1851) ; 
‘‘ A Fortnight in Ireland’? (1852) ; ‘‘De- 
scriptive Essays’’ (1857) ; ‘‘ The Horse 
and his Rider’? (1860); ‘‘The Royal 
Engineer ᾽᾽ (1860), etc. 


Heber, Reginald, Bishop of Cal- 
cutta (b. Malpas, Cheshire, April 21st, 
1783; ἃ. 1826). ‘‘ Poems” (1812) ; “The 
Personality and Office of the Christian 
Comforter” (1815); an edition of the 
works of Jeremy Taylor, and numerous 
essays in The Quarterly Review, besides 
his Newdigate prize poem, called ‘* Pales- 
tine.’ Sce his ‘Journal,’’ the ‘‘ Life” 


by his widow (1830), ‘*The Last Days of 
Heber,” by Thomas Robinson, and the 
Memoirs by Potter and Taylor. 


Helps, Sir Arthur (b. 1817; d. Lon- 
don, March 7th, 1875). “Thoughts 
in the Cloister and the Crowd” (1835) ; 
‘Essays written in the Intervals of 
Business’? (1841); ‘‘ Friends in Coun- 
611 (1841, 1859) ; ‘‘ King Henry II.,” 
an historical drama (1843); ‘‘ Cathe- 
rine Douglas,” a tragedy (1848) ; ‘‘ The 
Claims of Labour’? (1845) ; ‘‘ Companions 
of my Solitude’’ (1851) ; ‘‘ A History of 
the Spanish Conquest of America ”’ 
(1855-61) ; ‘‘Oulita, the Serf’? (1858) ; 
“ Realmah’’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Life of Pizarro ”’ 
(1869) ; ““ Casimir Maremma”’ (1870) ; 
“Brevia: Short Essays and Aphorisms” 
(1870); ‘‘Conversations on War and 
General Culture’? (1871); ‘Thoughts 
upon Government” (1871); ‘Life of 
Cortez’? (1871); ‘‘Ivan de Biron” 
(1874) ; and “ Social Pressure ’’ (1874). 


Hemans, Felicia Dorothea (b. 
1794; ἃ. 1835). ‘‘ Early Blossoms of 
Spring”? (1808) ; ‘England and Spain ; 
or, Valour and Patriotism”’ (1808) ; ‘‘'The 
Domestic Affections ’”’ (1812) ; ‘‘ Restora- 
tion of the Works of Artin Italy’ (1817); 
“¢ Modern Greece”? (1817) ; ‘‘ Meeting of 
Wallace and Bruce’? (1819); ‘‘The 
Sceptic”’ (1820) ; ““ Dartmoor”? (1821) ; 
‘“‘Welsh Melodies’’ (1822); ‘‘Siege of 
Valencia’? (1823); ‘‘ The Forest Sanc- 
tuary ’’ (1826) ; ‘‘ Records of Woman”? 
(1828); ‘Songs of the Affections”’ 
(1830); ‘National Lyrics”’ (1834) ; 
“Hymns of Childhood ”? (1834) ; ‘Scenes 
and Hymns of Life ”’ (1834) ; ‘‘ Poetical 
Remains”’ (1836). 


Henley, W. E., LL.D. (b. Glouces- 
ter, 1849). ‘‘ A Book of Verses”’ (1888); 
‘‘ Views and Reviews’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Three 
Plays,” with R. L. Stevenson (1892) ; 
‘‘The Song of the Sword, ete.’’ (1892) ; 
‘London Voluntaries, οἷο." (1893). 
Editor of ‘English Classics,’? the 
“Tudor Translations,’’ etc. ; also Editor 
of the New Review, and formerly of the 
National Observer. 


Henry, Matthew (Ὁ. Broadoak, 
Whitchurch, Shropshire, 1662 ; ἃ. Nant- 
wich, June 22nd, 1714). ‘‘ An Exposi- 
tion of the Old and New Testaments,”’ 
‘Life of the Rev. Philip Henry ”’ (1696); 
‘Discourse concerning Meekness ”’ 
(1698) ; ‘The Communicant’s Com- 
panion’’ (1704); ‘‘ Direction for Daily 
Communion”? (1712), and ‘‘The Plea- 
santness of a Religious Life’’ (1714). 
Sce the ‘‘ Lives’? by Tong and Williams. 


Henty 


Henty, George Alfred (b. Trump- 
ington, December 8th, 1832). ‘‘ The 
March to Magdala”’’ (1868); ‘* All But 
Lost’ (1869) ; ‘‘Out on the Pampas”’ 
(1870); ‘*The Young Franc-Tireurs”’ 
(1871); ‘*The March to Coomassie’”’ 
(1874) ; ‘*The Young Colonist’’ (1884) ; 
“Condemned as a Nihilist’? (1892) ; 
‘Wulf the Saxon’’ (1894); ‘‘In the 
Heart of the Rockies” (1894), ete. 

Herbert, George (b. Montgomery 
Castle, April 8rd, 1593; d. Bemerton, 
1632). ‘*The Temple’? (1631); ‘* The 
Country Parson’? (1652), ete. See the 
** Lives’? by Izaak Walton (1670) and 


Duyckinck (1858) ; also the edition of | 


his Works, with a Memoir, by A. B. 
Grosart (1879). 


Herrick, Robert (b. London, 1591; 
d. October 15th, 1674). ‘*‘ Noble Num- 
bers, or Pious Pieces’? (1647). The 
remainder of his writings appeared in 
1648 under the title of ‘‘ Hesperides.’’ 
See the ‘‘Complete Poems,’ edited by 
A. B. Grosart (1877), and the ‘ Selec- 
tion,’’ by F. T. Palgrave (1877). 


Herschel, Sir John Frederick 
William (Ὁ. 1792; ἃ. 1871). ‘‘A Pre- 
liminary Discourse on the Study of 
Natural Philosophy ’’ (1830) ; “Α Trea- 
tise on Astronomy ’”’ (1833); ‘‘ Results 
of Astronomical Observations made 
during the Years 1834-38 at the Cape 
of Good Hope’”’ (1847); ‘‘ Outlines of 
Astronomy”’ (1849); “ΧΑ Manual of 
Scientific Enquiry’ (1849); ‘‘ Essays 
from the Edinburgh and Quarterly 
Reviews’? (1857). 

Heywood, John (b. North Mimms, 
Hertfordshire, 1506; d. Mechlin, 1565). 
Works :—‘‘ The Play of Love”? (1538) ; 
“ A Mery Play betweene Johan the Hus- 
band, Tyb the Wife, and St. Johan the 
Prestyr ’’ (1533); ‘‘ A Mery Play be- 
tweene the Pardoner and the Frere, the 
Curate and Neybour Prattle’’ (1533) ; 
“ΟΥ̓ Gentylnes and Nobylyte, a Dya- 
logue’? (1535); ‘‘A Dialogue, ete.” 
(1546) ; ‘‘The Spider and the Flie”’ 
(1556) ; ‘‘A Breefe Balet ’’ (1557) ; ‘‘ The 
Play called the Foure P’s”’ (1569); “Α 
Balade,”’ etc., in MS. Harl. ; ‘‘ Dialogue 
of Wit and Folly,”’ in Fairholt’s edition ; 
‘* Poetical Dialogue,’ etc.,in MS. Harl., 
Brit. Mus. ; ‘‘ A Description of a Most 
Noble Ladye,’’ in MS. Harl. An edition 
of the Works was printed in 1562. 


Hinkson, Mrs. Katharine, xéc 
Tynan (Ὁ. Dublin, 1861). ‘‘ Louise de 
la Valliére’’ ete, (1885) ; ‘‘Shamrocks ”’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘ A Nun, her Friends, and her 


1372 


Hoey 


Order”? (1891) ; ‘‘ Ballads and Lyrics” 
(1891); ‘*A Cluster of Nuts’’ (1894) ; 
‘** Cuckoo Songs’’ (1894), ete. 


Hinton, James, M.R.C.S. (b. Read- 
ing, 1822; ἃ, 1875). ‘*‘Man and his 
Dwelling-place’’? (1859); “Τρ in 
Nature’? (1862); ‘‘ Mystery of Pain’’ 
(1866) ; ‘‘ Selections from MSS.’’ (1870- 
74) ; ‘* Chapters on the Art of Thinking”’ 
(1879); and various medical works. 
‘*Life,’’ by Miss Jane Ellice Hopkins 
(1878). 

Hinton, Rev. J. Howard (bh. March 
24th, 1791; ἃ. December 17th, 1873). 
** History and Topography of the United 
States’? (1832) ; ‘*Man’s Responsibility ’’ 
(1842); ‘* Voluntary Principle in the 
United States ”’ (1851) ; ‘‘ Acquaintance 
with God ”’ (1856) ; ‘* God’s Government 
of Man”? (1856) ; ‘‘Redemption”’ (1859); 
‘** Tour in Holland and North Germany”’ 
(1860);  ‘* Moderate Calvinism Re- 
examined”? (1861); ‘* Theological Works”’ 
(1864), ete. 

Hobbes, John Oliver, verve Mrs. 
Pearl Craigie (b. Boston, Mass., Novem- 
ber 3rd, 1807). ‘‘ Some Emotions and a 
Moral’? (1891) ; ‘The Sinner’s Comedy ”’ 
(1892) ; ‘‘A Bundle of Life’? (1893) ; 
“A Study in Temptations’ (1893) ; 
“The Gods, Some Mortals, and Lord 
Wickenham”’ (1895). 


Hobbes, Thomas (b. Malmesbury, 
April 5th, 1588 ; ἃ. December 4th, 1679). 
“The Wonders of the Peak,’’ a poem 
(1636) ; ‘*‘De Cive”’ (1646); ‘Human 
Nature ’’ (1650) ; ‘‘De Corpore Politico”’ 
(1650) ; ‘‘ Leviathan ”’ (1651) ; ‘* Liberty 
and Necessity ’’ (1654); ‘* Decameron 
Physiologicum’’ (1678); ‘‘The Behe- 
moth’’; a free translation of Aristotle’s 
“ Rhetoric’’?; a translation of Homer 
into English verse; and his own ‘‘ Life,’ 
in Latin verse (1672). Sze also the ‘‘ Life”’ 
by Blackburne (1681). A complete col- 
lection of his Works was published by 
Sir W. Molesworth (1842-45). 

Hodder, Edwin (b. Staines, 1837). 
“* Heroes of Britain ’’ (1878-80) ; ‘‘ Cities 
of the World’ (1881-84); ‘‘ Life and 
Work of the Seventh Earl of Shaftes- 
ἢ ; ‘‘Life of Samuel Mor- 
ley’? (1887); ‘‘Sir George Burns” 
(1890) ; ‘‘ George Fife Angas’ (1891) ; 
“History of South Australia ’’ (1893) ; 
“John MacGregor: ‘Rob Roy’’’ (1894). 


Hoey, Mrs. Frances Sarah (b. 
Rathfarnham, County Dublin, February 
15th, 1830). ‘‘A House of Cards’’ 
(1808); ‘‘ Falsely True’’ (1870); “A 
Golden Sorrow’? (1872); ‘‘Out of 


Hogg 


1373 


Hornung 


Court ’’ (1874) ; ‘‘ The Blossoming of an 
Aloe’’ (1875); ‘* No Sign, etce.’’ (1876) ; 
‘‘Griffith’s Double’’ (1876); ‘‘ All or 
Nothing’”’ (1879); ‘‘The Question of 
Cain”’ (1882); ‘‘The Lover’s Creed ’’ 
(1884); “Α Stern Chase’? (1886); 
‘Translations from the French,”’’ ete. 


Hogg, James (b. Forest of Ettrick, 
Selkirkshire, January 25th, 1772; d. 
Altrive, November 21st, 1835). ‘‘ The 
Mistakes of a Night’’ (1794) ; ‘* Verses’’ 
(1801) ; ‘*‘ The Mountain Bard’’ (1807) ; 
‘*The Queen’s Wake ”’ (1813) ; ‘‘ Madoc 
of the Moor,’’ ‘‘The Pilgrims of the 
Sun,’? ‘The Poetie Mirror,’’ ‘‘ Queen 
Hynde,’ and other poems; together 
with the following prose works :—‘‘ The 
Brownie of Bodsbeck,’’ ‘* Winter Even- 
ing Tales,’’ ‘‘ The Three Perils of Man,”’ 
“'The Three Perils of Women,’’ ‘‘ The 
Altrive Tales,’’ ‘‘ The Confessions of a 
Justified Sinner,’’ ‘‘ Lay Sermons,’’ and 
“A Life of Sir Walter Scott.”’ 


Hole, The Very Rev. Samuel 
Reynoids, D.P. (Ὁ. December Sth, 
1819). ‘*A Littie Tour in Ireland ᾽" 
(1859) ; ‘*‘ A Book about Roses’’ (1869) ; 
“*Six of Spades’? (1872); ‘‘ Hints to 
Preachers’? (1880); ‘‘ Nice and her 
Neighbours”? (1881); ‘fA Book about 
the Garden and the Gardener’’ (1892) ; 
‘*The Memories of Dean Hole ᾽ (1892) ; 
‘* More Memories’’ (1894), ete. 


Hood, Thomas (b. London, May 
23rd, 1799; ἃ. London, 1845). ‘‘Odesand 
Addresses to Great People,’’ with J. H. 
Reynolds (1825) ; ‘‘The Plea of the Mid- 
summer Fairies, and Other Poems’”’ 
(1827) ; ‘*‘ National Tales ’’ (1827); ‘‘ The 
Epping Hunt”? (1829) ; ‘‘ Comic Annual’’ 
(1830 to 1839); ‘‘ Tylney Hall’’ (1834) ; 
“*Hood’s Own”’ (1838-39) ; ‘‘Up the 
Rhine ”’ (1840) ; and ‘*‘ Whimsicalities ”’ 
(1843-44). The ‘‘ Poems,”’ and ‘‘ Poems 
of Wit and Humour,”’ are published in 
a collected form. For Biography, sce 
his Literary Reminiscences m ‘* Hood’s 
Own,’’ and the ‘‘ Life’’ by Hood’s son 
and daughter. 


Hock, Thecdore Edward (b. Lon- 
don, September 22nd, 1788 ; d. London, 
August 24th, 1841). ‘‘Sayings and 
Doings” (1824, 1825, 1828); ‘* Max- 
well” (1830); ‘‘Gilbert Gurney’’ (1835); 
“*Gurney Married”’ (1837) ; ‘‘Jack Brag”’ 
(1837); ‘‘ Births, Deaths, and Marriages” 
(1839) ; ‘‘ Precepts and Practice ᾽᾽ (1540); 
“‘Fathers and Sons’’ (1840); and ‘‘ Pere- 
grine Bunce ;’’ also several plays, includ- 
ing ‘‘Peter and Paul” and ‘‘ Killing No 
Murder.”” His ‘‘Life of Sir David 


Baird’ in 1832. Edited John Bull and 
New Monthly. ‘Life’ by Barham (1848). 


Hook, Walter Farquhar, D.D., 
Dean of Chichester (Ὁ. London, 1798 ; 
d. October 20th, 1875). “ὙΠ Last 
Days of Our Lord’s Ministry ’’ (1832) ; 
“Ὁ Sermons Preached before the Univer- 
sity of Oxford’’ (1837); ‘“‘ Hear the 
Church ’’ (1838); ‘A Church Diction- 
ary ’’ (1842); ‘* An Ecclesiastical Bi- 
ography ’’ (1845-52); ‘‘The Three Re- 
formations: Lutheran, Roman, Angli- 
can’ (1847) ; ‘‘ Lives of the Archbishops 
of Canterbury ”’ [to Archbishop Juxon] 
(1860-76) ; ‘* The Church and its Ordin- 
ances’’ (1876). ‘‘ Life’? by W. R. W. 
Stephens (1878). 

Hooker, Richard (Ὁ. 1553 ; d. 1600). 
“On the Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity,’ 
books i.—iv. (1593); book ν. (1597); 
book vii. (1617); books vi. and viii. 
(1648). Rev. John Keble published an 
excellent edition of Hooker in 1836, re- 
vised by Dean Church and Canon Paget 
(1888). 


Hope, Anthony, ve7¢ Anthony Hope 
Hawkins (b. London, February $th, 
1863). “Α Man of Mark’? (1890) ; 
‘* Father Stafford ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Mr. Witt’s 
Widow’’ (1892); “Α Change of Air’’ 
(18938) ; ‘‘ Sport Royal’? (1893); ‘‘ Half 
a Hero” (1893); ‘The Prisoner of 
Zenda ’’ (1894) ; “ΠΕ God in the Car’”’ 
(1894) ; ‘* The Dolly Dialogues ’’ (1894). 


Horne, George, Bishop of Norwich 
(b. Otham, Kent, November Ist, 1730 ; 
d. Bath, January 17th, 1792). ““ Com- 
mentary of the Psalms” (1776), ete. 
“716. (1795): 

Horne, Richard Hengist (Ὁ. Lon- 
don, 1803; d. 1884). ‘‘Cosmo de 
Medici”? (1837); “ὙΠΟ Death of Mar- 
lowe ”’ (1838) ; ‘‘ Exposition of the False 
Medium and Barriers excluding Men 
of Genius from the Public”’ (1838) ; 
““Gregory the Seventh,’ a tragedy 
(1840) ; ‘* A Life of Napoleon ’’ (1841) ; 
“*Orion, an Epic Poem”’ (1843); ‘A 
New Spirit of the Age”’ (1844) ; ‘* Bal- 
lads and Romances’? (1846); ‘‘ Judas 
Iscariot’? (1848); ‘‘The Dreamer and 
the Worker’? (1851); ‘‘ Undeveloped 
Characters of Shakespeare ;’’ ‘‘ Austra- 
lian Facts and Prospects ;’’ and ‘‘ Laura 
Dibalzo’’ (1880). See ‘‘ Letters of E. B. 
Browning to R. H. Horne”’ (1877). 


Hornung, Ernest William (b. Mid- 
dlesbrough, June 7th, 1866). ‘‘ A Bride 
from the Bush’’ (1890); ‘‘ Under Two 
Skies ”’ (1892) ; ‘‘ Tiny Luttrell ’’ (1893) ; 


Horton 


1374 


Hunt 


“The Boss of Taroomba ”’ (1894) ; ‘* The 
Unbidden Guest ’’ (1894). 

Horton, Rev. Robert Forman, 
D.D. (Ὁ. London, September 18th, 1855). 


“History of the Romans’ (1884) ; 
‘‘Tnspiration and the Bible’’ (1888) ; 
“The Book of Proverbs’? (1888) ; 


“Revelation and the Bible’? (1892) ; 
**Verbum Dei’”’ (1893) ; “‘ The Cartoons 
of St. Mark’’ (1894); ‘‘ The Apostles’ 
Creed,’’ ete. (1895). 

Houghton, Richard Monckton 
Milnes, Baron (b. 1809; d. 1885). 
‘““Memorials of a Tour in Greece ”’ 
(1833) ; ‘* Memorials of a Residence on 
the Continent’’ (1838); ‘* Poems of 
Many Years ’’ (1838) ; ‘‘ Poetry for the 
People ’’ (1840); ‘‘ Poems, Legendary 
and Historical’? (1844); ‘‘ Keats’s Life, 
Letters, and Literary Remains’’ (1848) ; 
“ς Boswelliana’’ (1855); ‘‘ Essays on 
Reform ’’ (1867); ““ Monographs, Per- 


sonal and Social’? (1873). ‘‘ Life’’ by 
Wemyss Reid (1890). 
Howe, John Loughborough, 


(b. 

Leicestershire, May 17th, 1630 ; ἃ. Lon- 
don, April 2nd, 1706). ‘‘The Living 
Temple’ (1676-1702) ; ‘‘The Redeemer’s 
Tears’’ (1685) ; ‘‘The Calm and Sober 
Inquiry Concerning the Possibility of a 
Trinity in the Godhead ”’ (1695) ; ‘* The 
Blessedness of the Righteous;’’ ‘‘ The 
Redeemer’s Dominion over the Invisible 
World ;’’ ““ Delighting in God ”’ (1700). 
See the ‘‘Lives’? by Calamy, Hunt 
(1823), and Rogers (1836). 

Howell, James (b. 1594; d. 1666). 
“* Dendrologia ; or, the Vocall Forest "ἢ 
(1640) ; ““ Instructions for Forraine Tra- 
vell’’? (1642); ‘‘ Epistole Ho-eliane ᾽ἢ 
(1645-55) ; “Α Perfect Description of 
the People and Country of Scotland ”’ 
(1649) ; ‘*‘ Londinopolis, an Historicall 
Discourse or Perlustration of the City of 
London and of Westminster "ἢ (1657) ; 
** Poems upon Divers Emergent Occa- 
sions’’ (1664). Sve ‘‘Athene Oxo- 
nienses,”’ ‘‘ Biographia Britannica,’’ the 
“Dictionary of National Biography,” 
and Hallam’s ‘‘ Literature of Europe.’’ 


Howitt, Mary (b. Uttoxeter, 1800; 
d. January 30th, 1888). ‘‘ The Seven 
Temptations ;’’ ‘‘Wood Leighton ;” 
“The Heir of West Wayland ;”’ ‘‘ The 
Dial of Love; ”’ ‘‘ Lilieslea ;’’ ‘‘ Stories 
of Stapleford; ’’ ‘‘ The Cost of Caerg- 
wyn,”’ etc. She also translated into 
English Andersen’s ‘‘ Improvisatore,”’ 
and all the works of Frederika Bremer. 


Howitt, William (Ὁ. Heanon, Derby- 
shire, 1795; d. March 38rd, 1879). ‘‘ The 


Book of the Season’? (1831); ‘‘ The 
History of Priestcraft’’ (1833); ‘The 
Rural Life of England’’ (1837) ; ‘ Stu- 
dent Life in Germany’ (1841); ‘‘ The 
Rural and Domestic Life of Germany ἢ 
(1842) ; ‘The Aristocracy of England ”’ 
(1846) ; ‘*The Haunts and Homes of 
British Poets’? (1847); “The Man of 
the Pecple’’ (1860); ‘“‘The Ruined 
Castles and Abbeys of England ”’ (1861) ; 
‘““The History of the Supernatural’’ 
(1863); ‘‘The Mad War Planet, and 
other Poems ’”’ (1871), ete. 


Howson, John Saul, Dean of 
Chester (Ὁ. 1816; ἃ. December 15th, 
1885). ‘* The Life and Epistles of St. 
Paul,’? with W. J. Conybeare (1852) ; 
‘““The Miracles of Christ’? (1871-77) ; 
‘‘Chester as It Was’’ (1872); ‘The 
River Dee, its Aspect and History ” 
(1875) ; ‘‘ Horee Petrine ’’ (1883). 


Hughes, Thomas (b. October 20th, 
1823). ‘*Tom Brown’s School Days’’ 
(1856) ; ‘Tom Brown at Oxford ”’ (1861); 
“The Scouring of the White Horse”’ 
(1858) ; ‘‘ Alfred the Great’’ (1869) ; 
‘“*The Memoirs of a Brother’ (1873) ; 
** Our Old Church ”’ (1879) ; ‘‘ The Man- 
liness of Christ’? (1879) ; ‘‘ Memoir of 
Daniel Macmillan ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ A Manual 
for Co-operators’’ (1881); ‘‘ Gone to 
Texas’? (1884); ‘Memoir of Bishop 
Fraser ’’ (1887); ‘‘ David Livingstone’’ 
(1889) ; and sundry miscellanies, 


Hume, David (b. Edinburgh, April 
26th, 1711; ἃ. Edinburgh, August 26th, 
1776). ‘* Treatise of Human Nature’’ 
(1738) ; ‘‘ Essays, Moral, Political, and 
Literary ’’ (1741-42) ; an ‘‘ Inquiry Con- 
cerning Human Understanding ”’ (1748) ; 
an ‘‘ Inquiry Concerning the Principles 
of Morals”? (1751); ‘‘ Political Dis- 
course’? (1751) ; ‘‘ The History of Eng- 
land ᾽᾽ (1754, 1756, 1759, and 1761) ; and 
the ‘‘ Natural History of Religion ”’ 
(1755). See the ‘‘ Autobiography,” 
edited by Adam Smith (1789) ; and the 
“Lives? by Pratt (1777), Dalrymple 
(1787), Ritchie (1807), and Hill Burton 
(1846). ‘‘ Philosophical Works ”’ (1875). 
See Huxley’s monograph (1879). 


Hunt, James Henry Leigh (b. 
Southgate, Middlesex, October 19th, 
1784; ἃ. August 28th, 1859). ‘‘The 
Feast of the Poets’’ (1814); ‘‘ The De- 
scent of Liberty’’ (1815) ; ‘‘ Bacchus in 
Tuscany ’’ (1816) ; ‘‘ Hero and Leander”’ 
(1816) ; ““ Francesca da Rimini ’”’ (1816) ; 
ἐς Ultra-Crepidarius ’’ (1819) ; ‘‘ Amyn- 
tas’? (1820); ‘‘ Recollections of Lord 
Byron’ (1828); ‘‘Sir Ralph Esher” 


Huxley 


(1832) ; ‘*Captain Sword and Captain 
Pen”? (1839) ; “Α Legend of Florence ”’ 
(1840) ; ‘* The Palfrey ’’ (1842) ; “ Chris- 
tianism”’ (1846) ; “Men, Women, and 
Books”? (1847) ; ‘The Town” (1848) ; 
“* Autobiography " (1850); ‘The Re- 
ligion of the Heart” (1853) ; ** Stories 
in Verse”? (1855); “The Old Court 
Suburb ”’ (1855) ; ‘Table Talk:” “A 
Jar of Honey from Mount Hybla ; ”’ 
“ΧΑ Tale for the Chimney Corner ;”’ 
** Wishing Cap Papers; ᾿ and “ A Day 
by the Fire.” He was also the com- 
pier, with notes, of “Wit and Hu- 
mour”’ and ‘‘ Imagination and Fancy.”’ 
Edited The Examiner (1808-21) ; The 
Literary Examiner (1817); The Indicator 
(1819-21) ; Zhe Companion (1828) ; Zhe 
Tatler (1830-32); The London Journal 
(1834-35); and Zhe Reflector. For 
Biography, seethe ‘‘ Life and Letters”’ by 
his son; Cosmo Monkhouse’s “Tiife;”’ 
Hawthorne’s ‘Our Old Home ;”’ 


Grundy’s ‘ Pictures of the Past,”’ 
ete. See also Alexander Smith’s 
‘* Dreamthorpe.”’ 

Huxley, Thomas He LL.D. 


nry, 

(b. Ealing, May 4th, 1825; d. June 29th, 
1895). ‘*Man’s Place in Nature” 
(1803); ‘ Lectures on Comparative 
Anatomy ’’ (1864); ‘‘Lessons on Ele- 
mentary Physiology”? (1866); ‘The 
Classification of Animals”? (1869) ; ‘* Lay 
Sermons, Addresses, and Reviews "ἢ 
(1870) ; ““ Critiques and Addresses ”’ 
(1873) ; ““ Elementary Biology " (1875) ; 
*‘American Lectures and Addresses”? 

1877) ; ‘‘ Hume ” (1879) ; “The Cray - 
fish ᾿᾽ (1881) ; ‘* Science, Culture, etc.” 
(1881); ‘Social Diseases and Worse 
Remedies ”’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Essays upon some 
Controverted Questions ”’ (1892) ; ‘* Evo- 
lution and Ethics” (1893). Collected 
Essays, in nine volumes, completed 
1895. 


I 


Ingelow, Jean (b. Boston, about 
1830). ‘‘ Tales of Orris”’ (1860) ; ‘The 
Round of Days” (1861); ‘“ Poems” 
(1862) ; ‘A Story of Doom, and other 
Poems ’’ (1867); ‘‘Mopsa the Fairy ”’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ Little Wonderhorn’’ (1872) ; 
“ΟΥ̓́ the Skelligs’’ (1873) ; ‘Fated to 
be Free” (1876) ; ‘“‘ Don John”’ (1876) ; 
‘Sarah de Berenger’’ (1880); ‘The 
High Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire ”’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ Very Young, οἷο." (1890) ; 
** Stories Told to a Child ’’ (1892), 


Ingoldsby, Thomas, (Sze Baruam, 
RicHARD HENRY.) 


1375 


Jeaffreson 


J 


James I. of England (b. Edin- 
burgh, June 19th, 1566; d. March 27th, 
1625), ‘Essays of a Prentice in the 
Divine Art of Poesie”’ (1584) ; ‘‘ Majesty’s 
Poetical Exercises”? (1591) ; ““ Demono- 
logie”’ (1597); ‘‘ Basilikon Doron” 
(1599) ; ‘* Triplici Nodo Triplex Cuneus ” 
(1605) ; ‘*Remonstrance for the Right 
of Kings”? (1615) ; ““Α Counterblaste to 
Tobacco” (1616). Prose Works (1616). 
See Arber’s reprints: also ‘‘ Lives”? by 
Wilson (1058), Sanderson (1656), 
Harris (1753), Laing (1804), Thompson 
(1825); Nichol’s ‘* Progresses, δέοι, of 
James I.’’ (1829) ; D’Israeli’s “*Tnquiry 
into the Literary and Political Character 
of James I.’’ (1816); and S. R. Gar- 
diner’s ‘‘ History of England from the 
Accession of James I.”? 


James I. of Scotland (b. Dunferm- 
line, 1391; d. Perth, February 20th, 
1437). ‘The King’s Quhair”’ (1783) ; 
“Christis Kirk on the Green,”’ and 
‘* Peblis to the Play.”” See ‘ Lives” by 
Wilson and Chalmers (1830). 


James, George Payne Rainsford 
(Ὁ. London, 1801; d. Venice, June 9th, 
1860). About 180 novels— ““ Riche- 
lieu”’ (1825) ; “Darnley ᾽" (1830), ete. ; 
and a few historical works, 

Jameson, Mrs. (Ὁ. Dublin, May 
19th, 1797 ; ἃ. March 17th, 1860). “The 
Loves of the Poets’? (1829); ‘Cele- 
brated Female Sovereigns”? (1831) ; 
‘Characteristics of Shakespeare’s Wo- 
men’’ (1832) ; ‘‘ Beauties of the Court 
of Charles II.” (1833) ; “Winter Stu- 
dies and Summer Rambles in Canada ”’ 
(1838) ; “Lives of the Early Italian 
Painters’? (1845); ‘Memoirs and 
Essays’ (1846) ; ‘‘Sacred and Legen- 
dary Art’? (1848); ‘‘Legends of the 
Madonna’”’ (1852); “A Commonplace 
Book of Thoughts. Memories, and 
Fancies”’ (1854); ‘‘The Diary of an 
Ennuyée”’ (1856) ; ete. ‘‘ Life?’ (1878). 

Jeafireson, John Cordy (b. Fram- 
lingham, January 14th, 1831). “‘ Novels 
and Novelists from Elizabeth to Victoria’’ 
(1858) ; ‘‘A Book about Doctors ”’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ Life of Robert Stephenson "ἢ 
(1864) ; “Α Book about Lawyers ”’ 


“The Real Lord 
“The Real Shelley "ἢ 
(1885) ; *‘ Lady Hamilton and Lord 
Nelson ”’ (1887) ; ‘The Queen of Naples 


Jefferies 


and Lord Nelson’’ (1889) ; ‘ Victoria, 
Queen and Empress’’ (1893) ; ‘* A Book 
of Recollections’? (1893) ; ete. 


Jefferies, Richard (b. Wiltshire, 
1848; ἃ. 1887). ‘*The Scarlet Shawl ”’ 
(1874) ; ““ Restless Human Hearts ”’ 
(1875) ; ““ World’s End’? (1877); ‘* The 
Gamekeeper at Home ’”’ (1878) ; ** Wild 
Life in a Southern County ’’ (1879) ; 
‘“The Amateur Poacher’’ (1879) ; 
‘* Hodge and his Masters’’ (1880) ; 
‘* Greene Ferne Farm ”’ (1880) ; ‘* Round 
About a Great Estate’? (1880) ; ‘* Wood 
Magic”’ (1881); ‘‘ Bevis ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ The 
Story of My Heart”’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Nature 
Near London’ (1883); ‘‘ Red Deer ’”’ 
(1884) ; ‘*The Dewy Morn’’ (1884) ; 


‘‘Life of the Fields’? (1884); ‘The | 


Open Air”? (1885); ‘* After London”? 


(1885) ; ‘‘ Amaryllis at the Fair ᾽ (1887) ;_ | 


“ Field and Hedgerow,’’ essays collected 


by Mrs. Jefferies (1889) ; ‘The Toilers | 


ot the Field’’ (1892). ‘*Eulogy’’ by 
Walter Besant (1888) and ‘ Lite’’ by 
H. S. Salt (1894). 


Jeffrey, Francis, Lord (Ὁ. Edin- 
burgh, October 23rd, 1773; d. Edin- 
burgh, January 26th, 1850). Edited 
Edinburgh Review from 1803 to 1829. 
‘* Essays’ (1818). See his ‘ Life” 
(with ‘* Letters’’) by Lord Cockburn 
(1852). 

Jerome, Jerome Klapka (b. Wal- 
sall, May 2nd, 1801). ‘‘ On the Stage— 
and Off’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Barbara’’ (1886) ; 
“Tdle Thoughts of an Idle Fellow "ἢ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Sunset ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Stageland ”’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Three Men in a Boat”’ (1889) ; 
“*Diary of a Pilgrimage, οἷο. (1891) ; 
‘Told After Supper’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Novel 
Notes’ (1893) ; ‘‘ John Ingerfield, οἷς. 
(1894). Editor of Zhe Idler, 


Jerrold, Douglas William (b. 
London, January 3rd, 1803; d. June Sth, 
1857). ‘‘Black-eyed Susan’? (1829) ; 
“The Rent Day’? (1832); ‘‘Men of 
Character ’’ (1838); ‘‘ Cakes and Ale”’ 
(1841) ; ‘The Story of a Feather ”’ 
(1843) ; ‘‘ Mrs. Caudle’s Curtain Lee- 
tures’? (1845) ; ‘‘Punch’s Complete 
Letter Writer’? (1846); ‘* The Chro- 
nicles of Clovernook ’’ (1846) ; “ΔΑ Man 
made of Money ”’ (1849) ; ‘‘ The Cats- 
paw ”’ (1850) ; ‘* Retired from Business ”’ 
(1851) ; and ‘‘ A Heart of Gold’ (1854). 
His ‘‘ Works’’ have been published in a 
collected form, ‘‘ Life’’ (1858), 


Jessopp, Rev. Augustus, D.D. (b. 
Cheshunt, 1824). ‘‘ Norwich School 
Sermons ’’ (1864) ; ‘‘ One Generation of 
a Norfolk House”’ (1878) ; ‘‘ History of 


1376 


Jonson 


the Diocese of Norwich ’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Ar- 
ἫΝ for Better for Worse’’ (1887) ; 
“The Coming of the Friars, and other 
Historical Essays’? (1888) ; ‘‘ Trials ot a 
Country Parson’’ (1890) ; “ Studies by 
a Recluse’’ (1892); ‘‘ Random Roam- 
ing, ete.’’ (1894). Editor of "" Visitations 
ot the Diocese of Norwich "ἢ (1888). 


Johnson, Samuel, LL.D. (b. Lich- 
field, September 18th, 1709 ; ἃ, London, 
December 13th, 1784). ‘* London”’ 
(1738) ; ‘* The Life of Richard Savage ** 
(1744) ; ‘‘ Miscellaneous Observations on 
the Tragedy of Hamlet, with Remarks 
on Hanmer’s Edition of Shakespeare ἢ 
(1745) ; ** The Vanity of Human Wishes’ 
(1749) ; ‘‘ Irene’’ (1749); ““ Rasselas”’ 
(1759); ‘‘A Visit to the Hebrides ”’ 
(1773) ; ** Dictionary of the English Lan- 
guage ’’ (1775); and ‘*The Lives of the 
Poets’’ (1779-81) ; besides writing 7he 
Idler, a weekly essay in The Universal 
Chronicle (1708-60), and nearly the 
whole of Zhe Rambler. His edition of 
Shakespeare appeared in 1765. See the 
‘* Lives’? by νὰν (1786), Hawkins 
(1787), Boswell (1791), Anderson (1794), 
and Russell gt ; also Carlyle’s “ Es- 
says;’’ Leslie Stephen’s monograph 
(1878) ; Matthew Arnold’s introduction 
to **'The Lives of the Poets’’ (1879) ; 
Birkbeck Hill’s “Ὧν, Johnson, his 
Friends and his Critics ”’ Made ; the 
same author’s edition of ‘‘ Boswell’s Life 
of Johnson,”’ ete. 


Jones, Henry Arthur (b. Grand- 
borough, Bucks., September 20th, 1851). 
‘“‘Saints and Sinners’’ (1891); ‘‘ The 
Crusaders’? (1893); ‘‘Judah’’ (1894) ; 
and many other plays. ‘‘ Renascence 
of the English Drama” (1895). 

Jonson, Ben (b. Westminster, 1574; 
ἃ, August 6th, 1037). ‘* Every Man in 
his Humour ”’ (1596); ‘* Every Man out 
of his Humour” (1599); “" Cynthia’s 
Revels”? (1600); ‘* The Poetaster’’ 
(1601) ; ‘*Sejanus’’ (1603) ; ‘‘ Eastward- 
Hoe” (with Chapman and Marston) 
(1605) ; ‘* Volpone ”’ (1605) ; ‘* Epicene ; 
or, the Silent Woman’’ (1609); ‘The 
Alchemist ’’ (1610) ; ‘‘ Catiline’’ (1611) ; 
‘“‘ Bartholomew Fair’? (1614); ‘* The 
Devil’s an Ass”’ (1616) ; ‘‘ The Forest’’ 
(1616) ; ‘* The Staple of News’”’ (1625) ; 
“The New Inn”? (1630) ; ‘‘ The Magnetic 
Lady ᾽" (1632) ; and ‘‘ The Tale of a Tub” 
(1633) ; besides his unfinished pastoral, 
‘““The Sad Shepherd”? (1637); various 
Masques; ‘‘ Underwoods;’’ ‘‘ Tim 
ber;’’ a ‘‘ Grammar ;”’ and many mis- 
cellaneous poems and translations. See 
Lewndes’s ‘‘ Manual.’’? His Works were 


Jowett 


1377 


Kingsley 


published in 1616-31, 1640, 1641, 1692, 
1716, 1756, 1816 (Gifford), 1838 (Proctor), 
1875. (Cunningham). See the ‘ Bio- 
graphies’’ by Chetwood (1746), Gifford 
(1816), Proctor (1838), Cunningham and 
Bell (1870), and J. A. Symonds (1887) ; 
and Criticism by the two latter, Hazlitt 
(‘‘Comie Writers’’), Leigh Hunt (CS Wat 
and Humour,’ ‘ Imagination and 
Fancy,’? and ‘‘Men, Women, and 
Books’’), Swinburne’s ‘‘ Study”’ (1889), 
the ‘‘ Dictionary of English Biography 
and Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,”’ mole, 
x. and xi. 


Jowett, Rev. Benjamin, LL.D. 
(Ὁ. Camberwell, 1817; d. October 1st, 
1893).  ‘‘Epistles of St. Paul to the 
Thessalonians, Galatians, and Romans ”’ 
(1855) ; Translations of Thucydides 
(1881), Aristotle (1885), Plato (1892), 
etc. 


K 


Kaye, Sir John William (b. London, 
1814; ἃ. July 24th, 1876). ‘‘ History of 

the War in Afghanistan (L851) athe 
Administration of the East India Com- 
pany”’ (1853) ; Biographies of ‘ Lord 
Metcalfe ”’ (1854), ‘* Sir George Tucker”’ 
(1854), and ‘* Sir John Malcolm”? (1856); 
“‘Christianity in India’? (1859) ; “x 
History of the Sepoy War, 1857-587’ 
(1864-76) ; ‘‘ Lives of Indian Officers ’’ 
(1867) ; and ‘‘ Essays of an Optimist’’ 
(1870). 

Keats, John (b. London, October 
29th, 1795; d. Rome, February : 27th, 
1820). Published ‘Poems ” (1817) ; 
** Endymion ”’ (1818) ; and ‘‘ Hyperion ”’ 
(1820). See the ‘‘Life’’ by Lord 
Houghton (1848), Colvin’s ‘‘ Keats’’ in 
the Lnglish Men of Letters series (1887), 
and W. M. Rossetti’s ‘‘ Keats’ (1887). 
For Criticism, sce Jefirey’s and Matthew 
Arnold’s ‘‘ Essays,’’ Rossetti’s edition 
of the ‘‘Poems,’’ Buxton Forman’s 
** Poetical. Works and other . Writings 
of John Keats” (1883), and Dr. R. 
Bridges’ ‘‘John Keats’’ (1895), ete. 
See εἶ his ‘ ‘Letters to Fanny Brawne”’ 
(1879), and Owen’s ‘‘ Keats, a Study ”’ 
(1879). 


Keble, John (b. Fairford, Glouces- 
tershire, April 25th, 1792; ἃ, Bourne- 
mouth, March 29th, 1865).  ‘‘ The 
Christian Year’’ (1827) ; ‘‘ De Poetics 
Vi Medica”’ (1844); “Lyra Innocentium”’ 
(1846) ; ὡς Sermons ἢ (1848) ; “1118 of 
Bishop Wilson’’ (1863) ; “Letters of 
Spiritual Guidance’”’ (1870); ‘*Occasional 


87 


Papers 2 as77), etc. See ‘Life’? by 
Jes Coleridge and by Walter 

Toa Shairp’s ‘‘ Studies,’’ Miss Yonge’s 

‘** Musings on the Christian Year,”’ ete. 


Kelvin, Lord. (See THomson, Sir 
WILLIAM.) 


Kernahan, Coulson (b. Ilfracombe, 
August Ist, 1858). ‘‘A Dead Man’s 
Diary ”’ (1890) ; “ΚΑ Book of Strange 
Sins’? (1893); ‘‘ Sorrow and Song?” 
(1894). 


Kidd, Benjamin. 
tion’ (1894). 


Kinglake, Alexander William (b. 
1811; ἃ. January 2nd, 1891), ‘‘Eothen”’ 
(1844), and ‘‘A History of the War in 
the Crimea’’ (1863-77). 

Kingsley, Charles (b. Holne, Devon- 
shire, June 12th, 1819; d. Eversley, 
January 23rd, 1875). ‘‘ The Saint’s 
Tragedy’? (1846) ; ,* Yeast” (1848) ; 
“Village Sermons ἢ" (1849) ; ‘* Alton 
Locke” (1850) ; ‘* Cheap Clothes and 
Nasty’? (1850) ; “ ΒΕ ΤΣ γπι. (1852): ; 
“ Hypatia ”” (1853) ; “Westward Ho!”’ 
(1835); ““Glaucus”’ (1855); ““The Heroes ; 
or, Greek Fairy Tales ’’ (18: 56); “ Alex- 
andria and Her Schools” (1857) ; “Two 
Years Ago ”’ (1857) 5 « Andromeda ;”” 
ἐς Miscellanies ἢ (1859) ; “The Water 
Babies’’ (1863) ; ‘‘ The Roman and the 
Teuton : Lectures” (1864) ; ““ What, 
then, does Dr. Newman Mean ὃ" (1864) ; 
‘“‘Hereward, the Last of the English ”’ 
(1866) ; ‘‘ The Ancien Régime ”’ (1867) ; 
“The Hermits ”’ (1868) ; “ Madam 
How and Lady Why”’ (1870) ; At 
Last’’ (1871) ; ‘‘ Prose Idylls”’ (1873) ; ; 
‘* Plays and Puritans ”? (1873); “Health 
and Education ’’ (1874) ; ‘ The Limits 
of Exact Science as applied to History ;”’ 
and several volumes of ‘‘Sermons.’? A 
collected edition of his Essays, etc., has 
appeared since his death. See the 
‘“* Life’? by Mrs. Kingsley (1876). 


Kingsley, Henry (Ὁ. Holne, Devon- 
shire, 1830; d. May 24th, 1876). ‘‘ Austin 
Elliot ;’’ ‘‘ The Boy in Grey; ”’ ‘‘Geofirey 
Hamlyn” (1859); ‘‘The Harveys;”’ 
“‘Hetty, and Other Stories;” ‘The 
Hillyars and the Burtons ;”’ «Hornby 
Mills, and other Stories ; ᾿ ‘Leighton 
Court ;’’ ‘‘ The Lost Child ; ” « Made- 
moiselle Mathilde ;”’ “Number Seven- 
teen ;”’ “" Oakshott Castle : “Old Mar- 
garet; »? <““Ravenshoe”’ (1861) ; ‘Reginald 
Hetheredge ; »” “*Silcote of Sileotes ; 
“Stretton 5”? ‘“‘Valentin;’’ ‘‘Tales ‘of 
Old Travel; ’’ ‘ Fireside Studies ;”” and 
other works. 


* Social Evolu- 


1378 


Lane-Poole 


Kipling 
Kipling, Rudyard (b. Bombay, 
1864). ‘* Soldiers Three’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The 
Phantom Rickshaw,’’ ete. (1888) ; : 


‘‘Plain Tales from the Hills’ (1890) ; 
‘*Under the Deodars’’ (1890); ‘‘ Wee 
Willie Winkie,’’ etc. (1890) ; ‘* Depart- 
mental Ditties’? (1890); ‘The Light 
that Failed’? (1890); ‘‘ In Black and 
White’? (1891); ‘‘Life’s Handicap ”’ 
(1891) ; ‘‘ Letters of Marque’”’ eae 
‘The Story of the Gadsbys’’ (1891) ; 
ἣν Barrack - room Ballads and_ other 
Verses ’’ (1892) ; ‘*The Naulahka”’ (with 
C. Wolcott Balestier, 1892); ‘*‘ Many 
Inventions ”’ (1893) ; “The Jungle 
Book”? (1894). 


Knowles, James Sheridan (b. Cork, 
May 12th, 1784; d. Torquay, Decem- 
ber, 1862). ‘‘Leo; or, the Gipsy;”’ 
‘* Brian Boroihme”’ (1814) ; ‘‘ Caius Grac- 
chus’’ (1815); ‘* William Tell’? (1825) ; 
“The Beggar’s Daughter of Bethnal 
Green ’’ (1828); ““ Virginius’’ (1828) ; 
* Alfred the Great’? (1831) ;° ‘*The 
Hunchback”’ (1852) ; ‘‘ The Wife’’ (1833) ; 
“The Love Chase’’ (1837); ‘* Woman’s 
Wit’ (1838) ; “Μαῖα of Mariandorpt’’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ Love,’’ ‘‘John of Procida’’ 
(1840); “ΟἸἹα Maids”’ (1841) ; ‘‘ The Rose 
of Aragon’? (1842); and ‘‘ The Secre- 
tary ’’ (1843). All but the first two of 
these were published in three volumes 
Ἢ θεῖς The Works were reprinted in 

63. 


Knox, John (b. Gifford, East Lothian, 
1505; d. November 24th, 1572). ‘The 
First Blast of the Trumpet against the 
Monstrous Regiment of Women” and a 
“* History of the Reformation of Religion 
within the Realm of Scotland.” ‘‘ Life ”’ 
by Smeaton (1579), McCrie (1812), Nie- 
meyer (1824), Laing (1847), and Brandes 
(1863). See also Lorimer's ‘‘ John Knox 
and the Church of England”? and 
Tulloch’s ‘* Leaders of the Reforma- 
tion. 


L 


Laing, Samuel (b. Edinburgh, 1810). 
““Modern Science and Modern Thought”? 
(1885) ; ‘*‘ Problems of the Future,’’ etc. 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Human Origins ᾽᾽ (1892). 


Lamb, Charles (b. London, Febru- 
ary 18th, 1775 ; d. Edmonton, December 
27th, 1834). ‘* Poems ”’ (with Coleridge) 
(1797) ;_‘* Rosamond Gray’ (1798) ; 
‘John Woodvil” (1801) ; ‘‘ Specimens 
from Dramatic Poets;’’ ‘‘ Adventures 
of Ulysses”? (1807) ; ** Essays of Elia’’ 
(1828) ; ‘ Last Essays ” and ‘‘ Popular 


Fallacies ᾽ (1833). With his sister Mary, 
‘Mrs. Leicester’s School;’’ ‘* Tales 
from Shakespeare ’’ (1806) ; ‘* Poetry 
for Children’? (1809). Works (1876). 
A new edition of Lamb’s Works was 
published by A. Ainger in 1883-4. See 
Talfourd’s ‘‘ Letters’’ (1837); ‘‘ Final 
Memorials of Charles Lamb’’ (1848) ; 
Procter’s ‘*Memoir’’ (1866); A. Ain- 
er’s ‘‘Lamb”’ in the English Men of 
Letters series; and Percy Fitzgerald’s 
‘* Life, Letters, and Writings of Lamb”’ 
(1895). 


Landon, Letitia Elizabeth (Ὁ. 
Chelsea, 1802; d. October 15th, 1839). 
ἐς The Fate of Adelaide ’’ (1820) ; ‘‘ The 
Improvisatrice, and other Poems”’ 
(1824) ; ‘‘The Troubadour’ (1825) ; 
“The Venetian Bracelet’’ (1829) ; “The 
Lost Pleiad’’ (1829) ; “ Francisca Car- 
rara’’ (1834); ‘‘The Vow of the Pea- 
cock’? (1835); ‘‘ Ethel Churchill ”’ 
(1837) ; and ‘Duty and Inclination”’ 
(1838). ‘Life’? with literary remains 
by Laman Blanchard in 1841. Poems 
edited by W. B. Scott in 1873. 


Landor, Walter Savage (b. Ipsley 
Court, Warwick, January 30th, 1775; 
d. Florence, September 178 
‘* Poems ”’ (1795) ; ΤΥ τα Gebir ”? 
“Count Julian’? (1812); ‘Idyllia 
Heroica,’’ (1820) ; “" Imaginar on- 
versations ’’ (1824-29) ; ‘‘ Latin Poems ’”’ 
(1824) ; “ὙΠ Examination of William 
Shakespeare ’’ (1834) ; ‘‘ Pericles and 
Aspasia’’ (1836) ; “ Letters of a Con- 
servative ’’ (1836) ; ‘‘ Satire on Satirists”’ 
(1836) ; “‘Pentameron ; or, Interviews 
of Messer Giovanni Boccaccio and 
Messer Francese Petrarcha’’ (1837) ; 
‘*Giovanna of Naples,’ ‘‘ Andrea of 
Hungary,” ‘Fra Ruperto " (1840-41) ; 
‘* Hellenics ’’ (1847); ‘* Last Fruit off an 
Old Tree’? (1853) ; ‘‘ Dry Sticks Fag- 
goted’’ (1858) ; and other works edited 
by Forster, with “Life” (1876). See 
also Sidney Colvin’s ‘‘ Landor”’ (1881). 


Lane, Edward William (b. 1801; 
ἃ. 1876). ‘*‘ The Manners and Customs 
of the Modern Egyptians’’ (1836) ; ‘* A 
Translation of the Arabian Nights’’ 
(1838-40) ; ‘‘ Selections from the Koran’”’ 
(18438) ; εὐ Arabic Lexicon” (1863-74) ; 
“ Arabian Society in the Middle Ages” 
(1883). 


Lane-Poole, Stanley (b. London, 
December 18th, 1854). ‘‘ Essays in 
Oriental | Numismatics” (1872-77) : 
‘“*Coins of the Urtuki Turkomans”’ 
(1874) ; “‘ Egypt’? (1881); ‘Studies in 
a Mosque’’ (1883) ; “Social Life in 


Lang 


1379 


Lemon 


Egypt ’’ (1884); ‘Coins and Medals”’ 
(1885); ‘*The Art of the Saracens in 
Egypt’ (1886) ; ‘‘ The Moors in Spain,’’ 
with A. Gilman (1886); ‘‘Turkey”’ 
(1888); ‘‘Life of Stratford Canning, 
Viscount de Redcliffe’? (1888); ‘‘The 
Barbary Corsairs’’ (1890); ‘‘Cairo’’ 
(1892) ; ‘‘ Life of Sir Henry Parkes,”’ 
with F. V. Dickins (1894), etc. 


Lang, Andrew (b. Selkirk, March 
dist, 1844). ‘* Ballads and Lyrics of 
Old France ’’ (1872); ‘‘ XXII. Ballades 
in Blue China’’ (1880); ‘XXXII. 
Ballades in Blue China’’ (1881) ; ‘‘ The 
Library’’ (1881); ‘‘Helen of Troy’”’ 
(1882) ; ‘‘Custom and Myth”’ (1884) ; 
‘* Rhymes a la Mode’”’ (1885) ; ‘In the 
Wrong Paradise’? (1886); ‘‘ Letters to 
Dead Authors’? (1886); ‘‘ Books and 
Bookmen ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Myth, Ritual, and 
Religion’ (1887); ‘*‘ Grass of Parnas- 
sus’’ (1888); ‘‘ Letters on Literature’’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Lost Leaders’”’ (1889) ; ‘‘ Prince 
Prigio”’ (1889); ‘‘Life, Tetters, and 
Diaries of Sir Stafford Northcote, First 
Earl of Iddesleigh’’ (1890); ‘‘ Old 
Friends”’’ (1890) ; ‘* The World’s Desire,”’ 
in collaboration with H. Rider Hag- 
gard (1890) ; ‘‘ Essays in Little’’ (1891); 
“Angling Sketches’? (1891); ‘‘ Prince 
Ricardo of Pantouflia’’ (1893); ‘St. 
Andrews’? (1893); ‘‘ Homer and the 
Epic’’ (1893); ‘‘Cock Lane and Com- 
mon Sense’’ (1894) ; ‘‘ Ban and Arri®re 
Ban’’ (1894). Has trans'ated Theo- 
critus and Bion, collaborated in trans- 
lating both the ‘‘Iliad’’ and ‘‘Odyssey”’ 
of Homer, and edited the Border 
Edition of Scott, ‘‘ English Worthies,”’ 
a Series of Fairy Books, etc. 


Langland, William (temp. Edward 
111). ‘*The Vision of Piers Plow- 
man”’ ¢Skeat’s edition, 1869), 


Lardner, Dionysius, LL.D. Ξ 
Dublin, April erd, 1793; d. Naples, 
April 29th, 1859). ‘‘ Handbook of 
Natural Philosophy and Astronomy”’ 
(1851-53) ; “ὙΠΟ Museum of Science 
and Art’’ (1854-56), etc. Edited the 
** Cabinet Cyclopedia ᾽ (1829-46). 

Latimer, Hugh (b. Thurcaston, 
Leicestershire, about 1491; d. Oxford, 
September, 1555). Was the author of a 
“Sermon on the Ploughers’’ (1549) ; 
“‘ Seven Sermons before Edward VI.,”’ 
‘« Seven Sermons on the Lord’s Prayer,” 
and ‘‘Sermons Preached in Lincoln- 
shire,’’ etc. Editions of these appeared in 
1562 and 1571; later, in 1825 and 1845. 
Sze the Biographies by Gilpin (1780), 


Watkins (1824), and Demaus (1869) ; | 


Tulloch’s ‘‘ Leaders of the Reformation,” 
and Froude’s ‘‘ History of England,” 
chap. iv. <A ‘Life’? and selections in 
vol. ii. of ‘‘ The Fathers of the Church.”’ 


Lawless, The Hon. Emily, daughter 
of the third Lord Cloncurry (b. 1845). 
“Hurrish’’ (1886); ‘‘ With Essex in 
Ireland’? (1890); ‘‘Grania’’ (1892) ; 
“* Maelcho”’ (1894). 


Le Galiienne, Richard (b. Liver- 
pool, January 20th, 1866), ‘‘ My Ladies’ 
Sonnets, etc.’? (1887); ‘‘ Volumes in 
Folio”’ (1889); “ὙΠῸ Student and the 
Body-Snatcher,’? with R. K. Leathes 
(1890); ‘*George Meredith: Some 
Characteristics’? (1890); ‘‘ Book-Bills 
of Narcissus’’ (1891); ‘‘ English Poems”? 
(1892) ; ‘‘ Religion of a Literary Man”’ 
(1893) ; ‘‘ Prose Fancies, οἷο. (1894) ; 
‘** Robert Louis Stevenson: An Elegy, 
ete.”’ (1895). Has edited the Poems of 
Arthur Henry Hallam, etc. 


Leathes, Rev. Stanley, D.D. (Ὁ. 
Ellesborough, Bucks, March 21st, 1830). 
‘““Witness of the Old Testament to 
Christ ’’ (1868); ‘‘ Witness of St. Paul 
to Christ’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Witness of St. John 
to Christ’’ (1870); ‘Structure of the 
Old Testament’’ (1873) ; ‘‘ The Gospel 
its Own Witness ”’ (1874) ; ‘‘ Religion of 
the Christ’? (1874); ‘‘The Christian 
Creed’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Old Testament Pro- 
phecy ’’ (1880) ; ‘‘The Foundations of 
Morality ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Characteristics of 
Christianity ’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Christ and the 
Bible”? (1885) ; ‘‘ The Law in the Pro- 
phets’’ (1891), ete. 


Lecky, William Edward Haritpcle 
(Ὁ. Dublin, March 26th, 1838). ‘‘ Lea- 
ders of Public Opinion in Ireland ”’ 
(1861); ‘‘ History of Rationalism’’ (1865); 
** History of European Morals’’ (1869) ; 
** History of England in the Eighteenth 
Century ”’ (1878-87) ; *‘ Poems”’ (1891) ; 
“The Political Value of History "ἢ 
(1892) ; ‘*The Empire: Its Value and ᾿ 
Its Growth”’ (1893). 

Lee, Nathaniel (b. 1655; d. 1692). 
“Nero” (1675) ; ‘‘The Rival Queens ”’ 
(1677) ; ‘‘ Theodosius’? (1680); ‘‘ The 
Princess of Cleves’’ (1689) ; ‘‘ The Mas- 
sacre of Paris” (1690);  ‘‘ Brutus,”’ 
‘* Mithridates,’? and other plays pub- 
lished in 1834. Helped Dryden in ‘* The 


| Duke of Guise.’’ 


Lemon, Mark (b. November 30th, 
1809; ἃ. May 23rd, 1810). Edited 
Punch, and wrote ‘‘The Enchanted 
Doll’? (1849); “ΑΔ Christmas Ham- 
per’? (1859); ‘‘ Wait for the End” 
(1863) ; ‘‘Loved at Last’’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Falk- 


Lever 


ner Lyle”’ (1866) ; besides several other 
novels, over sixty dramatic pieces, and 
“The Jest Book.’? See Joseph Hatton’s 
‘With a Show in the North.’’ 


Lever, Charles James (b. Dublin, 
August 31st, 1809; d. Trieste, June Ist, 
1872). ‘‘The Adventures of Harry 
Lorrequer”’ (1839) ; ‘‘ Charles O’ Malley ”’ 

1841); ‘‘ Jack Hinton” (1842); ‘Tom 

urke of Ours’’ (1844) ; “Τὴ O’Dono- 
ghue”’ (1845); ‘The Knight of 
Gwynne’ (1847); ‘‘ Roland Cashel’’ 
(1849) ; ‘The Daltons’’ (1852); ““ The 
Dodd Family Abroad’’ (1854); “The 
Martins of Cro’ Martin’’ (1856); ‘‘ The 
Fortunes of Glencore’’ (1857) ; ‘‘ Daven- 
port Dunn” (1859); ‘ Barrington”’ 
(1863) ; ‘‘A Day’s Ride’’ (1863); ‘* Lut- 
trell of Arran’ (1865) ; ‘‘Tony Butler’’ 
(1865) ; *‘Sir Brooke Fosbrooke’”’ (1866); 
“The Bramleighs of Bishop’s Folly” 
(1868) ; ‘‘ That Boy of Norcott’s’’ (1869); 
“Paul Gosslett’s Confessions’? (1871) ; 


“Lord Kilgobbin ’’ (1872), ete. Sve the 
“*Life’’ (1879). Edited Zhe Dublin 


University Magazine. 

Lewes, George Henry (b. London, 
April 18th, 1817; ἃ. November 30th, 
1878). ‘‘ Biographical History of Philo- 
sophy ’’ (1847; remodelled and enlarged 
edition, 1867); ‘‘ Ranthorpe: A Tale ”’ 
(1847) ; “ὙΠῸ Spanish Drama—Lope de 
Vega and Calderon’ (1848); ‘Rose, 
Blanche, and Violet’’ (1848); ‘“‘ A Life 
of Robespierre’’ (1850): ‘‘The Noble 
Heart,’’ a tragedy (1850); ‘‘ Comte’s 
Philosophy of the Sciences’? (1859) ; 
“Life of Goethe’? (1859); ‘Seaside 
Studies ”’ (1859) ; ‘‘ Physiology of Com- 
mon Life’’ (1860) ; ‘‘ Studies in Animal 
Life’”’ (1861); ‘‘Aristotle’”’ (1861) ; 
“Problems of Life and Mind’’ (1873- 
76); and ‘‘ Physical Basis of Mind’? (1877). 
Edited The ae and The Fortnightly 
Review. 

Lewis, Sir George Cornewall (b. 
London, April 21st, 1806 ; d. April 13th, 
1863). ‘‘ Remarks on the Use and 
Abuse of Political Terms” (1832) ; ‘‘ Lo- 
cal Disturbances in Ireland and the 
Irish Church Question ’’ (1836) ; ““ Glos- 
sary of Herefordshire Provincial Words”’ 
(1839) ; ‘‘ Essay on the Origin and For- 
mation of the Romance Languages”’ 
(1839) ; ‘* Essay on the Government of 
Dependencies ’’ (1841) ; ‘‘ Essay on the 
Influence of Authority in Matters of 
Opinion ’’ (1849); ‘‘A Treatise on the 
Methods of Observation and Reasoning 
in Politics ’’ (1850); ‘‘ An Inquiry into 
the Credibility of Early Roman His- 
tory ;”’ ‘‘ Our Foreign Jurisdiction and 


1380 


Lindsay 
the Extradition of Criminals ; ’’ ‘‘ Let- 
ters’’ in 1870. He translated Béckh’s 
‘* Public Economy of Athens,’’ Miiller’s 
ὁ History of Greek Literature,’ and 
Miiller’s ‘Dorians.” See Bagehot’s 
‘* Biographical Studies.”’ 


Lewis, Matthew Gregory, called 
‘*Monk”’ Lewis (Ὁ. 1775; ἃ. 1818). ‘‘The 
Monk,”’ a romance (1795) ; ‘‘ The Castle 
Spectre,’? a drama (1797); ‘ Tales of 
Wonder’? (1801); ‘‘ The Bravo of 
Venice ᾿ (1804); ‘‘ Romantic Tales” 
(1808) ; besides many plays, and trans- 
lations from the German. Sze ‘* Lewis’s 
Life and Correspondence ’’(1839). 


Liddon, Henry Parry, D.D., Canon 
of St. Paul’s (b. Stoneham, Hauts., 
1829 ; d. September 9th, 1890), ‘* Di- 
vinity of Our Lord’’ (1867); -‘‘ Wal- 
ter Kerr Hamilton ’’ (1869); ‘‘Ser- 
mons on Old Testament Subjects”’ 
(1891) ; ‘* Passiontide Sermons’’ (1891) ; 
“*Some Words of Christ’’ (1892) ; ‘* Es- 
says and Addresses ’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ Life of 
E. B. Pusey,’’ vols. i. and ii., edited by 
J.O. Johnston and R. J. Wilson (1893) ; 
**Clerical Life and Work’ (1894); 
several series of sermons preached 
before the University of Oxford, in St. 
Paul’s, ete. 


Lightfoot, Joseph Barber, D.D., 
Bishop of Durham (b. Liverpool, 1828 ; d. 
December 2Ist, 1889). ‘‘ Essays on 
Supernatural Religion’’ (1889); ‘‘ Leaders 
in the Northern Church’ (1890); 
“« Ordination Addresses,’’ ete. (1890) ; 
Edition of ‘‘The Apostolic Fathers’’ 
completed by J. R. Harmer (1891) ; 
“‘Notes on the Epistles of St. Paul’’ 
(1895), ete. 

Lilly, William Samuel (b. Fife- 
head, Dorset, 1840). ‘‘ Ancient Re- 
ligion and Modern Thought’’ (1884) ; 
‘*Chapters in European History ”’ 
(1886); ‘‘A Century of Revolution ”’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ On Right and Wrong ’”’ (1890) ; 
“¢ On Shibboleths ᾽ (1892) ; ‘‘ The Great 
Enigma’’ (1892); ‘‘ The Claims of 
Christianity ’’ (1894). 


Lindsay, Sir David (b. probably at 
Garmylton, East Lothian, 1490; ἃ. 
1555). ‘‘ The Dreme’’ (1528) ; ‘‘ The 
Complaynt of the King’s Papingo”’ 
(1530) ; ‘‘ The Testament of the Papin- 
go”’ (1530) ; ‘“‘ Ane Pleasant Satyre of 
the Three Estatis’’? (1540); ‘‘The Re- 
gister of Arms”? (1542), with plates (1822); 
“ΤῊ Historie of Squyer William Mel- 
drum ’’ (1550) ; ‘‘The Monarchie”’ {500} 
and some minor works, first co lected 
in 1568. Poetical Works, with Life, ἡ 


Linton 


1381 


Lodge 


by George Chalmers in 1806; but the 
completest edition is Laing’s (1879). 


Linton, Mrs. Eliza Lynn (Ὁ. Kes- 
wick, 1822). ‘‘ Witch Stories’? (1861) ; 
“The Lake Country’’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Our- 
selves’? (1870) ; *‘ Joshua Davidson ”’ 
(1874) ; ‘* Patricia Kemball’’ (1875) ; 
“The Atonement of Leam Dundas’’ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ The World Well Lost ’’ (1877) ; 
** Under which Lord ?’’ (1879); ‘‘ The 
Girl of the Period’’ (1888); ‘‘The 
Autobiography of Christopher Kirk- 
land ’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Paston Carew ᾽᾽ (1886) ; 
‘Through the Long Night’ (1889) ; 
‘* About Ireland ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ An Octave 
of Friends’? (1891) ; ‘‘ About Ulster’’ 
(1862) ; ‘‘ The One Too Many ”’ (1894) ; 
‘In Haste and at Leisure ’’ (1895). 


Linton, William James (Ὁ. Lon- 
don, 1812). ‘‘ A History of Wood En- 
graving’’ (1846-47). ‘‘Claribel, and 
other Poems’? (1865); ‘‘ The Flower 
and the Star ’’ (1568) ; ‘* Practical Hints 
on Wood Ereraving’’ (1879) ; ‘ Voices 
of the Dead’’ (18797); ‘*‘Wood En- 
graving ”’ (1884) ; ‘* Love Lore ”’ (1887) ; 
**Poems and ‘Translations’? (1889) ; 
“The Masters of Wood Engraving ’”’ 
(1889). ‘Life of J. G. Whittier’ 
(1893) ; ‘* European Republicans”’ (1893); 
‘** Memories’ (1895). 


Livingstone, David (b. 1813; d. 
M:y 4th, 1873). ‘* Missionary Travels 
and Researches in South Africa ’’ (1857) ; 
‘Narrative of an Expedition to the 
Zambesi and its Tributaries’’ (1865). 
* Last Journals,’ edited by Rev. H. 
Wa'ler (1874). See Stanley’s ‘‘ How I 
found Livingstone.”’ 


Locke, John (b. Wrington, Somer- 
setshire, August 29th, 1632; d. Oates, 
Essex, October 28th, 1704). ‘‘ A Letter 
on 'oleration’”’? (1689); ‘‘A Second 
Letter on ‘Toleration’’ (1690); ‘‘ Two 
Treatises on Government ”’ (1690) ; ‘* An 
Essay Concerning Human Understand- 
ing’’ (1690) ; “6. Inspiration of the 
Holy Scriptures’? (1690); ‘‘A Third 
Letter on Toleration”’ (1692) ; ‘Thoughts 
Concerning Education ’’ (1693); “ΓΘ 
Reasonableness of Christianity ’’ (1694) ; 
“ΟΣ the Conduct of the Understand- 
ing;’’ ‘‘ Examination of Malebranche; ”’ 
‘“*Hlements of Natural Philosophy ;”’ 
“Thoughts on Reading and Study ;”’ 
‘“Bssay for the Understanding of St. 
Paul’s Epistles by Consulting St. Paul 
Himself ;’’ and some minor works in- 
cluded in the edition of the ‘*‘ Works”’ 
published in 1777. His Life has been 
written by Le Clere (1713), Lord King 


(1829), and Fox-Bourne (1876). See 
also the essay by J. A. St. John, pre- 
fixed to the ‘“ Philosophical Works,”’ 
published in 1843. 


Locker, Frederick (b. 1821). ‘‘ Lon- 
don Lyrics’? (1857). Edited ‘‘ Lyra 
Elegantiarum.’’ ‘‘ Selections’? from 
his works appeared in 1865; a volume 
of ‘‘ Patchwork ’’ in 1879, ete. 


Locker-Lampson, Frederick (b. 
1821; d. May 28th, 1895). ‘* London 
Lyrics ’’ (1857) ; edited *‘ Lyra Elegan- 
tiarum ’’ (1867; enlarged edition 1891). 

Lockhart, John Gibson (b. Cam- 
busnethan, Lanarkshire, 1794; d. Ab- 
botsford, November 25th, 1854). ‘‘ Peter’s 
Letters to his Kinsfolk’’ (along with 
Wilson, 1819) ; ‘‘ Ancient Spanish Bal- 
lads”? (1821); ‘‘Valerius’’ (1821) ; 
οἰ Wssays on Cervantes ”’ (1822) ; ‘* Adam 


Blair’? (1822) ;  ‘‘ Reginald Dalton”’ 
(1828); ‘‘ Matthew Wald” (1824) ; 


“1116 of Burns’’ (1828) ; and ““ Lite of 
Scott’? (1837-39). Edited The Quar- 
terly Review. See Dr. R. Shelton Mac- 
kenzie’s ‘‘Memoir of John Gibson 
Lockhart,’’ prefixed to an edition of 
“The Noctes Ambrosiane’’ (New 
York, 1855). 

Lockyer, Protessor Joseph Ner- 
man, C.B. (b. Rugby, May 17th, 1836). 
‘Elementary Astronomy,’ ‘‘ Solar 
Physics’’ (1873) ; ‘The Spectroscope 
and its Applications ’’ (1873) ; “ Primer 
of Astronomy’’ (1874) ; ‘‘ Star Gazing ”’ 
(1878); ‘‘ Researches in Spectrum Ana- 
lysis’ (1882); ‘* Chemistry of the Sun”’ 
(1887); ‘‘Movements of the Earth” 
(1887); ‘‘The Dawn of Astronomy ”’ 
(1894). Edits Nature. 


Lodge, Thomas (Ὁ. 1555; d. 1625). 
** Reply to the Schoole of Abuse ’”’ (1579- 


80); ‘*An Alarm against Usurers’’ 
(158) ἢ; ‘* Seillee’s | Metamorphosis ”’ 


(1589) ; ““ Rosalynde”’ (1590) ; ‘* Cath- 
aros’’ (1591); ‘‘Euphues’ Shadow’”’ 
(1592) ; ‘*‘ Phillis”? (1598); ‘* William 
Longbeard ”’ (1593); ‘‘ The Wounds of 
Civill War’ (1594); “ΑΔ Looking- 
Glasse for London and England’”’ (with 
Robert Greene, 1594); ‘‘A Fig for 
Momus’? (1594) ; ‘‘ The Divel Conjured”’ 
(1596) ; ‘‘ Wit’s Miserie and the World’s 
Madnesse’’ (1596); and others. See 
Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Handbook to Early Eng- 
lish Literature,’’ Collier’s ‘‘ Dramatic 
Poetry’? and ‘‘ Poetical Decameron,”’ 
Wood’s ‘‘ Athenze Oxonienses,’’ Beloe’s 
“Anecdotes of Literature,’ Ritson’s 
‘“‘ Bibliographia Poetica,’’ Brydges’ ‘‘Cen- 
sura Literaria,’’? Letrospective Review, 


Lovelace 


1382 - 


Lytton 


and the Shakespeare Society’s publi- 
cations for 1853, and the ‘‘ Dictionary of 
National Biography.” 


Lovelace, Richard (b. Kent, 1618; 
d. London, 1658). ‘* Lucasta: Odes, 
Sonnets, Songs, etc.’’ (1649) ; and some 
posthumous pieces (1699). Also, ‘*‘ The 
Scholar,’’ a comedy ; and ‘* TheSoldier,”’ 
a tragedy (1649), neither of which is 
extant. ‘*Poems’’ were edited in 
1864 by Carew Hazlitt. See Wood’s 
‘“*Athenw Oxonienses’’?’ and Morley’s 
“The King and the Commons.”’ 


Lover, Samuel (b. 1797; d. July 
Gth, 186s). ‘Legends and Stories of 
Treland’’ (1832); ‘‘Songs and Bal- 
lads ’’ (1839) ; ‘‘ Rory O’More’’ (1837) ; 
‘‘ Handy Andy, an Irish Tale’? (1842) ; 
“*Metrical Tales ’’ (1860). See B. Ber- 
nard’s ‘* Samuel Lover.”’ 


Lubbock, Right Hon. Sir John, 
Bart., M.P., D.C.L., LL.D. (Ὁ. London, 
April 30th, 1894). ‘* Prehistoric Times 
as Illustrated by Ancient Remains and 
the Manners and Customs of Modern 
Savages’? (1865); “The Origin of 
Civilisation and the Primitive Condition 


of Man”’ (1870); ‘‘ On the Origin and | 


Metamorphosis of Insects’? (1873) ; 
““Monograph on the Thysanura and 
Collembola’’? (1878); ‘‘Our British 
Wild Flowers Considered in their Re- 
lation to Insects’’ (1873); ‘‘A Volume 
of Scientific Lectures’? (1879); ‘* Fifty 
Years of Science ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Ants, Bees, 


and Wasps”’ (1882) ; ‘* The Pleasures of | 


Life’’ (1887) ; ‘‘The Beauties of Na- 
ture’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ A Contribution to our 
Knowledge of Seedlings ’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ The 
Use of Lite’’ (1894). 


Lucy, Henry W. (b. Crosby, near ; 


Liverpool, December 5th,- 1845). “Α 
Popular Handbook of Parliamentary 
Procedure’’ (1880); ‘‘ Men and Man- 
ners in Parliament; ’’ ‘‘Gideon Fleyce”’ 
(1882); ‘‘ East by West’’ (1885); “A 
Diary of Two Parliaments’’ (1885-86) ; 
‘© A Diary of the Salisbury Parliament ’”’ 
(1892); ‘‘Faces and Places’’ (1892); 
“The Rt. Hon. W. E. Gladstone”’ (1895). 
Lyall, Edna, verve Ada Ellen Bayly 
(Ὁ. Brighton). ‘‘ Won by Waiting” (1879); 
‘*Donovan”’ (1882) ; ‘* We Two”’ (1884); 
“Tn the Golden Days”’ (1885) ; ‘“‘ Knight 
Errant’’ (1887); ‘‘ Autobiography of a 
Slander’? (1887); ‘‘ Derrick Vaughan, 
Novelist’? (1889); ‘‘ Their Happiest 
Christmas’’ (1889) ; ‘‘ A Hardy Norse- 
man’”’ (1889); ‘“‘The Autobiography of 
a Slander’? (1892); “Τὸ Right the 
Wrong ’’ (1893) ; ‘* Doreen”’ (1894). 


Lydgate, John (b. Suffolk, not later 
than 1370; ἃ, 1460). ‘The cha 


| Sege, and Destruccyon of Troye”’ (1515) ; 


“The Story of Thebes’? (1561); ‘* The 
Falls of Princes’’ (1494) ; aud several 
minor works, including ** The Werke of 


| Sapience;’’ ‘‘ The Lyf of Our Ladye ;”’ 


“The Chorle and the Byrde;”? “A 
Lytell Treatise of the Horse, the Shepe, 
and the Goos;’’ ‘ Proverbes;’’ ‘* he 
Temple of Glass ;’’ and ‘** The Cronycle 
of all the Kynges Names.”’ 


Lyell, Sir Charles(b. November lith, 
1797; ἃ. Feb. 22nd, 1875). ‘* Principles 


| of Geology ”’ (1830-33); ““ Elements of 
ey 


Geology’’ (1838); ‘‘ Travels in North 


| America’? (1845); “Α Second Visit to 


the United States’? /1849) ; ‘‘ The An- 
tiquity of Man”’ (1863). He also con- 
tributed many papers to the Transac- 
tions of scientific societies, Sve Kath- 
leen Lyell’s ‘‘ Life and Letters of Sir 
Charles Lyell’’ (1881). 

Lyly, or Lilly, John (b. Kent, 1553 ; 
ἃ. November, 1606). ‘‘ Euphues: The 
Anatomy of Wit’’ (1579); ‘* Euphues 
and his England ᾽ (1580) ; ‘* Alexander 
and Campaspe’’ (1584); ‘‘ Pap with a 
Hatchet’? (1589); ‘‘Sapho and Phao”’ 
(1591); ‘* Endymion, the Man in the 
Moon’’ (1592); ‘* Euphues’ Shadow ἢ 
(1592) ; ** Galathea ’’ (1592) ; ‘‘ Midas ”’ 
(1592) ; ‘* Mother Bombie ”’ (1594) ; 
“The Woman in the Moon’’ (1597) ; 
“The Maydes Metamorphoses’’ (1600) ; 
“Love’s Metamorphosis ’’ (1601); “ΙΧ 
Court Comedies”’ (1632); and ‘‘ Euphues 
and Lucilla’’ (1716). For Biography, 
see Collier’s ‘‘ History of Dramatic 
Poetry’? and W. C. Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Hand- 
book to Early English Poetry.’’ For 
Criticism, Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Age of Elizabeth;”’ 
Hallam’s ‘ Literature of Europe;”’ 
Lamb’s ‘‘ Specimens of English Dramatic 
Poets ;’’ Coleridge’s ‘‘ Remains ;’’ H. 
Coleridge’s ‘‘ Notes and Marginalia ;”’ 
ard Jusserand’s ‘‘ History of the Eng- 
lish Novel in the Time of Elizabeth.” 
An edition of Lyly’s dramatic works was 
edited by F. W. Fairholt in 1858. Exact 
reprint of ‘‘ Euphues’’ by Arber. See 
also Morley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vols. 
Vili. - αὶ. i 

Lytton, Lord (Edward George Earle 
Lytton Bulwer-Lytton, Ὁ. May, 1805; 
ἃ. January 18th, 1873). ‘‘ Ismael, with 
other Poems’’ (1820); prize poem on 
ἐς Sculpture ᾽᾽ (1824) ; ‘Weeds and Wild 
Flowers,’’? poem (1826) ; ‘‘ O’Neill; or, 
the Rebel’’ (1827) ; ‘‘ Falkland ”’ (1827) ; 
“Pelham; or, the Adventures of a 
Gentleman ”’ (1827) ; ‘‘ The Disowned”’ 


Lytton 


1828); ‘‘Devereux’’ (1829); ‘‘ Paul 
lifford ’’ (1830) ; ‘‘ The Siamese Twins, 
and other Poems’ (1831); ‘‘ Eugene 
Aram’’ (1831) ; ““ Godolphin”? (1833) ; 
“England and the English’? (1833) ; 
“The Pilgrims of the Rhine’’ (1834) ; 
“The Last Days of Pompeii’’ (1834); 
“The Crisis,’ a pamphlet (1834) ; ‘‘The 
Student,’’ essays (1835); ‘‘ Rienzi, the 
Last of the Tribunes’’ (1835) ; ‘‘ The 
Duchess de la Valliére,’’ a play (1836) ; 
‘Athens, its Rise and Fall’’ (1836) ; 
“Ernest Maltravers’’ (1837); ‘‘ Alice; 


“ or, the Mysteries’? (1838) ; ‘‘ Leila; or, 


the Siege of Granada,’’ and ‘‘ Calderon, 
the Courtier’’ (1838); “ὙΠΟ Lady of 
Lyons,”’ a play (1838) ; ‘‘ Richelieu,’’ a 
play (1839) ; ‘‘ The Sea Captain,”’ a play 
(1839) ; ‘‘ Money,’’ a play (1840) ; ‘‘ Night 
and Morning’”’ (1841); ‘‘ Zanoni ’’ (1842) ; 
“γ᾽ and ‘‘ The Ill-omened Marriage”’ 
(1842) ; ‘‘ Poems and Ballads of Schiller,”’ 
translated (1844); ‘‘The Last of the 


Barons’’ (1843); ‘‘Confessions of a 
Water Patient’’ (1845); ‘‘The New 
Timon” (1845); ‘‘Lucretia; or, the 


Children of the Night (1847) ; ‘‘ King 
Arthur’’ (1848); ‘‘The Caxtons: a 
Family Picture’’ (1849) ; ‘‘ Harold, the 
Last of the Saxcns’’ (1850); ‘‘ Not so 
Bad as We Seem,”’ a play (1851); ‘‘My 
Novel; or, Varieties of English Life ’’ 
(1853) ; ‘‘ What will He do with It?”’ 
(1858); “Α Strange Story’? (1862) ; 
“ Caxtoniana ; or, Essays on Life, Liter- 
ature, and Manners’’ (1863); ‘The 
Lost Tales of Miletus’? (1866); ‘‘ The 
Rightful Heir,’’ a play (1868) ; ‘‘ Wal- 
pole’’ (1869); ‘‘The Coming Race”’ 
(1871) ; ‘‘The Parisians’’ (1873) ; ‘‘Ken- 
elm Chillingley ’’ (1873); and ‘‘ Pausa- 
nias the Spartan’’ (1876). An edition 
of his ‘‘ Dramatic Works’’ appeared in 
1863, of his ‘‘Poems’”’ in 1865, and of 
his ‘‘ Miscellaneous Prose Works ’’ in 
1868. His ‘‘ Novels’? are published in 
numerous editions. For Biography, see 
the ‘“‘ Memoir ”’ prefixed by Robert, Lord 
Lytton, to his father’s ‘‘ Speeches ”’ 
1874), and “ΤΠ Life, Letters, and 
iterary Remains of Edward Bulwer, 
Lord Lytton,’’ by his son (1883). For 
Criticism, see ‘‘ Essays’? by George 
Brimley; ‘‘ Essays on Fiction’’ by 
Nassau W. Senior; ‘‘ Essays’? by W. 
C. Roscoe; Quarterly Review for Janu- 
ary; 1865; Blackwood’s Magazine for 
March, 1873, etc. 


Lytton, Lord, ‘‘ Owen Meredith ”’ 
(Edward Robert Bulwer-Lytton, b. No- 
vember 8th, 1831; d. November 24th, 
1891). ‘‘Clytemnestra,”’ etc. (1855); ‘*The 


1383 


McCartiy 


Wanderer”’ (1859) ; ‘‘ Lucile’? (1860) ; 
“ Julian Fane: ἃ Memoir”’ (1861) ; ‘‘ The 
Ring of Amasis’’ (1863); ‘‘ Poetical 
Works of Owen Meredith’’ (1867) ; 
“Chronicles and Characters’’ (1868) ; 
“ Orval; or, the Fool of Time’’ (1869) ; 
“Fables in Song’’ (1874); ‘‘ Glenaveril ; 
or, the Metamorphoses”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ After 
Paradise’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ The Ring of Ama- 
sis’? (1890); ‘‘ King Poppy’’ (1892) ; 
also, in conjunction with Julian Fane, 
“Tannhiuser; or, the Battle of the 
Bards’’ (1861). In 1883 he published 
a Life of his father. 


M 


Maartens, Maarten (b. Holland). 
““The Sin of Joost Avelingh” (1889) ; 
“An Old Maid’s Love’? (1891); “A 
Question of Taste’’ (1892); ‘*God’s 
Fool’”’ (1892); ‘‘ The Greater Glory ’’ 
(1894) ; *‘ My Lady Nobody ”’ (1895). 


Macaulay, Thomas Babington, 
Lord (b. Rothley Temple, Leicester- 
shire, October 25th, 1800; d. Kensing- 
ton, December 28th, 1859). Wrote 
several papers in nights Quarterly 
Magazine (1823-24); ‘‘ Essays’? in The 
Edinburgh Review (1825-44) ; ‘ Lays of 
Ancient Rome ”’ (1842); ‘‘ History of 
England’’ (unfinished, 1849-55-61) ; 
biographies in ‘‘'The Encyclopedia Brit- 
annica’’ (1857-58) ; ‘‘Speeches,’’ and 
various miscellanies. His Life has been 
written by Dean Milman (1862), the 
Rev. Frederick Arnold (1862), Sir G. O. 
Trevelyan (1876), and J. C. Morison in 
the English Men of Letters series. Sir 
G. O. Trevelyan has also published ‘‘ Se- 
lections’’ from his writings (1876). See 
also the ‘‘Correspondence of Macvey 
Napier ’’ (1879). 

McCarthy, Justin, M.P. (b. Cork, 
November 22nd, 1830). ‘‘ Paul Massie’’ 
(1866) ; ‘‘The Waterdale Neighbours ”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘ My Enemy’s Daughter”’ (1869) ; 
** Lady Judith”’ (1871); “Α Fair Saxon”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘Linley Rochford’’ (1874) ; 
‘‘Dear Lady Disdain’’ (1875); ‘‘ Miss 
Misanthrope”? (1877) ; ‘‘ Donna Quixote ’’ 
(1879) ; ‘‘A History of Our Own Times’”’ 
(1878-80) ; ‘‘ Con Amore’’ (1880) ; ‘‘ The 
Comet of a Season’’ (1881) ; ‘* Maid of 
Athens”? (1883) ; ‘‘ The History of the 
Four Georges’? (1884); ‘‘Ireland’s 
Cause in England’s Parliament ’’ (1888) ; 
‘‘A Short History of Our Own Times”’ 
(1888); ‘‘ The Grey River,’’ in collabora- 
tion (1889); ‘‘ Roland Oliver ’’ (1889) ; 
“Sir Robert Peel’’ (1890); ‘‘Charing 


McCarthy 


Cross to St. Paul’s’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ The Dic- 
tator’’ (1893) ; also ‘‘ The Right Honour- 
able’’? (1886), and ‘‘ The Rebel Rose’’ 

1888), written in conjunction with Mrs, 
Campbell Praed. Has been connected 
with several journals, especially the 
Daily News. 


McCarthy, Justin Huntly (b. 
1860). ‘‘ Outline of Irish History ”’ 
(1883); ‘*Serapion and other Poems’’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ England under Gladstone ”’ 
(1884) ; ‘*Camiola”’ (1885) ; *‘ Doom !”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Our Sensation Novel ᾽ (1886) ; 
“Hafiz in London’’ (1886); ‘Ireland 
since the Union ᾽ (1887) ; ‘‘ The Case for 
Home Rule ”’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Harlequinade ᾽ἢ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Lily Lass’? (1889) ; ‘‘ Dolly ’’ 
(1889) ; ‘* French Revolution ’’ (1890) ; 
** Red Diamonds” (1893) ; “Α London 
Legend”? (1895); ‘* Translation of the 
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam’’ (1889), 
and ‘‘ Persian Tales’’ (1893) ; ete. 


MacDonald, George, LL.D. (b. 
Huntly, Aberdeenshire, 1825). ‘* Within 
and Without” (1855); ‘‘ Poems’’ 
(1857) ; ‘‘ Phantastes’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ David 
Elginbrod ’’ (1862) ; “ὙΠΟ Hidden Life, 
and other Poems ”’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Adela Cath- 
cart’’ (1864) ; ‘The Portent’’ (1864) ; 
‘“*Alec Forbes, of Howglen’’ (1865) ; 
“Annals of a Quiet Neighbourhood ”’ 
(1866) ; ‘‘ Unspoken Sermons ’’ (1866) ; 
“Guild Court’? (1867); ‘* Dealings 
with the Fairies’’ (1867); ‘“‘The Sea- 
board Parish’’ (1867); ‘‘The Disciple, 
and other Poems’’ (1868) ; ‘‘ England’s 
Antiphon’’ (1868); ‘‘ Robert Fal- 
coner’’ (1868) ; ‘*Ranald Bannerman’s 
Boyhood ’’ (1869); ‘*The Miracles of 
our Lord’’ (1870); ‘At the Back of 
the North Wind’’ (1870) ; ““ The Prin- 
cess and the Goblin’’ (1871); ‘‘The 
Vicar’s Daughter’? (1872); ‘* Wilfrid 
Cumbermede ”’ (1872); ‘‘ Gutta Percha 
Willie’? (1873); ‘* Malcolm ’’ (1874) ; 
‘St. George and St. Michael”? (1875) ; 
‘“'The Wise Woman ”’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Thomas 
Wingfold, Curate ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘ The Mar- 
quis of Lossie ᾽ (1877) ; ‘‘ Paul Faber ’’ 
(1878) ; ‘‘Sir Gibbie’”’ (1879); ‘‘ Mary 
Marston ”’ (1881) ; *‘ Weighed and Want- 
ing”’ (1882); ‘‘The Gifts of the Child 
Christ,”’ ete. (1882) ; ‘‘ Castle Warlock ”’ 
(1882) ; ‘‘ Donal Grant ᾽ (1883); ‘‘ The 
Princess and Curdie’’ (1883); ‘‘ The 
Imagination and other Essays ’’ (1883) ; 
‘*What’s Mine’s Mine ᾽ (1886) ; ‘‘ Home 
Again’’ (1887); ‘‘The Elect Lady ’”’ 
(1888) ; ‘*A Rough Shaking’’ (1890) ; 
““The Light Princess,’’ etc. (1890); 
‘*Cross Purposes and the Shadows’’ 
(1890) ; ‘The Flight of the Shadow ”’ 


1384 


Mackintosh 


(1891); ‘*There and Back’? (1891); 
““The Hope of the Gospel’’ (1892); 
“Poetical Works’ (1893); ‘‘ Heather 
and Snow ”’ (1893), ete. 


Mackay, Charles, LL.D. (b. Perth, 
1812 ; ἃ. December, 1889). “ὁ Poems ”’ 
(1834); ‘Memoirs of Extraordinary 
Popular Delusions’? (1841); ‘* The 
Salamandrine’’ (1842); ‘Legends of 
the Isles’’ (1845); ‘‘ Voices from the 
Mountains”’ (1846); ‘*Town Lyrics ”’ 


(1847); ‘‘ Egeria’’ (1850); ‘*The 
Lump of Gold’ (1856); ‘ Under 
Green Leaves’? (1897); ‘‘A Man’s 


Heart’’ (1860) ; ‘‘Studies from the An- 
tique and Sketches from Nature ’’ (1864) ; 
“Under the Blue Sky’”’ (1871); ** Lost 
Beauties of the English Language’’ 
(1874) ; and other works. A collected 
edition of his Poems appeared in 1876. 
He was editor of the Glasgow Argus 
from 1844 to 1847. See his ‘ Forty 
Years’ Recollections’? (1876), and 
‘* Through the Long Day ”’ (1887). 


Mackay, George Eric. ‘‘Songs of 
Love and Death”? (1865); ‘Love 
Letters. By a Violinist ’’ (1884) ; 
“ Gladys, the Singer’’ (1887); ‘A 
Lover’s Litanies’’ (1888); ‘‘ Nero and 
Actea’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ A Song of the Sea”’ 
(1895), ete. 

Mackenzie, Henry (b. Edinburgh, 
1745; ἃ. January 14th, 1831). -“ The 
Man of Feeling ’’ (1771) ; ‘‘ The Man of 
the World’? (1773); ‘‘Julia de Rou- 
bigné ’’ (1777) ; besides contributing to 
The Mirror (1778), The Lounger (1785), 
and the “Transactions of the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh.’’ He also pub- 
lished a volume of translations and 
dramatic pieces in 1791, a ‘Life of 
Blacklock”? in 1793, and a ‘‘ Life of 
John Home” in 1812. ‘‘Works”’ in 
1808. 


Mackintosh, Sir James (b. ΑἹ- 
dourie, Inverness-shire, October 24th, 
1765; d. London, May 30th, 1832). 
“The Regency Question’? (1788) ; 
“*Vindicie Gallice’’ (1791); contribu- 
tions to The Monthly Review (1796) ; 
“On the Study of the Law of Nature 
and Nations’’ (1799); ‘‘The Trial of 
John Peltier, Esq.’’ (1803) ; a ‘* Disser- 
tation on Ethical Philosophy’’ (1830) ; 
a ‘History of England”’ (1830-32) ; 
‘History of the Reformation in Eng- 
land in 1688’? (1834) ;.a ‘‘ Life of Sir 
Thomas More”’ (1844) ; and other pub- 
lications. His miscellaneous Works 
were published in three volumes (1846). 
His ‘“‘ Memoirs’’ were edited by his son 
Robert in 1835. 


McLaren 


McLaren, Alexander, D.D. (Ὁ. 
Glasgow, February 11th, 1826). ‘‘ The 
Secret of Power,”’ etc. (1882) ; ‘‘ Christ 
in the Heart’’ (1886) ; ‘‘The Holy of 
Holies”’ (1890); ‘*The Unchanging 
Christ,’’ ete. (1890) ; ‘‘ The Conquering 
Christ,’’ etc. (1891) ; ‘‘ The God of the 
Amen,’’ etc, (1891); ‘‘The Wearied 
Christ,’’ etc. (1893) ; ‘‘ Paul’s Prayers,”’ 
etc. (1893). 


Macleod, Norman, D.D. (b. Camp- 
belltown, June 3rd, 1812; d. Glasgow, 
June 16th, 1872). _‘‘ The Old Lieutenant 
and his Son;’’ ‘* The Starling; ’’ ‘‘ Wee 
Davie;’’ ‘*The Gold Thread and Other 
Stories ; ’’ ‘‘ Eastward; ᾽᾽ ‘‘ Peeps at the 
Far East ;’’ ‘‘ Reminiscences of a High- 
land Parish ;’’ ‘‘ Simple Truths Spoken 
to Working People ;’’ and some fugitive 
sermons. See the ‘‘ Life’ written by his 
brother (1876); also W. E. Gladstone’s 
“Gleanings of Past Years ’’ (1878-79). 


Macmillan, The Rev. Hugh (b. 
1833). ‘‘ First Forms of Vegetation ”’ 
(1861) ; ‘‘ Bible Teachings in Nature”’ 
(1866) ; ‘‘ Holidays on High Lands”’ 
(1869) ; “ΒΘ True Vine”? (1871) ; ‘‘ The 
Ministry of Nature’’ (1871) ; ‘‘ The Gar- 
den and the City ’”’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Sun Glints 
in the Wilderness ”’ (1872) ; ‘‘ The Sab- 
bath of the Fields ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Our Lord’s 
Three Risings from the Dead’? (1876) ; 
‘* Two Worlds are Ours ”’ (1880) ; ‘‘ The 
Marriage in Cana of Galilee’’ (1882) ; 
“The Riviera’? (1885); ‘‘The Olive 
Leaf ’’ (1886); ‘‘ Roman Mosaics ’’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ The Gate Beautiful’’ (1891) ; 
“* My Comfort in Sorrow ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ The 
Mystery of Grace ’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ The Daisies 
of Nazareth’’ (1894). 

Macpherson, James (b. 1738; d. 
1796). ‘The Highlander’? (1758) ; 
“ Fragments of Ancient Poetry ᾽ (1760) ; 
“Fingal, an Ancient Poem, in Six 
Books, composed by Ossian’’ (1762) ; 
“Temora, an Ancient Epic Poem, in 
Eight Books, composed by Ossian’’ 
(1763); ‘‘Introduction to the History 
of Great Britain and Ireland ”’ (1771) ; 
“The Iliad of Homer, translated into 
English Prose’’ (1773). 


Mahafty, Professor John Pent- 
land, D.D., Mus.D., D.C.L. (b. Chap- 
ponnaire, near Vevey, Switzerland, 
February 26th, 1839). ‘‘ Twelve Lec- 
tures on Primitive Civilisation ’’ (1868) ; 
“*Prolegomena to Ancient History ”’ 
(1871) ; ‘‘ Kant’s Critical Philosophy for 
English Readers ”’ (1871) ; ‘‘ Greek Social 
Life from Homer to Menander’”’ (1874) ; 
“Greek Antiquities ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Rambles 


1385 


Mandeville 


and Studies in Greece ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Greek 
Edueation’’ (1879); ‘‘A History of 
Classical Greek Literature’? (1880) ; 
“The Decay of Modern Preaching ’’ 
(1882) ; ‘The Story of Alexander’s 
Empire ’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Art of Conversation ”’ 
(1887) ; ‘t Greek Life and Thought ”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ The Greek World under Roman 
Sway’ (1890); ‘‘Problems of Greek 
History ’’ (1892), ete. 


Mahony, F., ‘‘ Father Prout’ (Ὁ. 
1805; ἃ. May 18th, 1866). ‘* The Re- 
liques of Father Prout ’’ (1836) ; ‘‘ Facts 
and Figures from Italy’? (1847). Edited 
the Globe. 


Maine, Sir Henry J. Sumner (b. 
1822; ἃ. February 3rd, 1888). ‘* Roman 
Law and Legal Education’’ (1856) ᾿ 
‘ Ancient Law ’’ (1861) ; ‘* Village Com- 
munities in the East avd in the West ”’ 
(1871) ; ‘‘ The Early History of Institu- 
tions ’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Dissertations on Early 
Law Customs ”’ (1883). 


Malet, Lucas, vere Mrs. Mary St. 
Leger Harrison, γέ. Kingsley (Ὁ. 1852). 
“Mrs. Lorimer’? (1882); ‘* Colonel 
Enderby’s Wife’’ (1885); ‘‘ Little Peter”’ 
(1887); “SA Counsel of Perfection ”’ 
(1888) ; “ὙΠῸ Wages of Sin”’ (1891). 


Mallock, William Hurrell (Ὁ. 
1849). “Τὴ New Republic ’’ (1876) ; 
“‘The New Paul and Virginia ”’ (1877) ; 
“Is Life Worth Living ?’’ (1879) ; 
“*Poems’’ (1880); “Α Romance of the 
Nineteenth Century ᾿" (1881); ‘ Social 
Equality ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Property and Pro- 
gress’ (1884) ; ““ Atheism and the Value 
of Life” (1884); ‘‘The Old Order 
Changes ’’ (1886); “Τὴ an Enchanted 
Island ”’ (1889) ; “Α Human Document”’ 
(1892) ; ** Labour and the Popular Wel- 
fare’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ Verses’’ (1893) ; ‘* Stu- 
dies of Contemporary Superstition ”’ 
(1895) ; ‘‘The Art of Life’’ (1895). 


Malory, Sir Thomas. ‘‘ The Byrth, 
Lif, and Actes of Kyng Arthur’ (1485, 
printed by Caxton). This popular ro- 
mance has been several times reprinted, 
Sir Edward Strachey’s edition in the 
Globe Library being the most convenient. 


Malthus, Thomas Robert (b. near 
Dorking, 1766 ; d. December 29th, 1834). 
An unpublished pamphlet, ‘‘The Crisis ”’ 
(1792); ‘‘Essay on the Principle of 
Population ”’ (1798, 1803) ; ‘‘ An Inquiry 
into the Nature and Progress of Rent ἢ 
(1815); ‘Principles of Political Eco- 
nomy”’ (1820); etc, ‘‘Life’’ by Dr. 
Otter in 1836. 


Mandeville, Sir John (b. St. Albans, 


Manning 


Hertfordshire, 1300; ἃ, Liége, November 
17th, 1372). ‘‘The Voyaige and Tra- 
vaile, which treateth of the Way to the 
Hierusalem, and of the Marvayles of 
Inde, with other Islands and Countries,”’ 
written in 1356, in French, in Latin, and 
in vulgar English, and printed in Italian 
at Milan in 1480. Best edition, 1839, 


Mauning, Henry Edward, Car- 
dinal (b. Totteridge, Hertfordshire, 
July 15th, 1808; ἃ, January 14th, 1892). 
‘“The Rule of Faith’? (1838); ‘* Holy 
Baptism”? (1843); ‘The Unity of the 


Church ’’ (1845); ‘* Oxford University | 


Sermons’’ (1845) ; ‘‘ Thoughts for those 
that Mourn”? (1850) ; ‘‘ The Grounds of 
Faith’? (1853) ; ‘*The Temporal So- 
vereignty of the Popes” (1860) ; ‘* The 
Blessed Sacrament, the Centre of In- 
scrutable Truth’’ (1864); ‘‘ The Werk- 
ings of the Holy Spirit’’ (1864); ‘‘ The 
Temporal Mission of the Holy Ghost ”’ 
(1865) ; ‘‘ The Reunion of Christendom ”’ 
1866) ; ‘‘ The Temporal Power of the 
ope ’’ (1866) ; ‘‘ England and Christen- 
dom”? (1867) ; “ΤῊ GEcumenical Coun- 
cil’? (1869); ‘‘The Vatican Council” 
(1870) ; ‘* The Demon of Socrates ”’ 
(1872) ; ‘‘ The Vatican Decrees’’ (1875) ; 
‘““The Eternal Priesthood ’’ (1883) ; 
‘‘National Education’’ (1889); ete. 
“Life”? by A. W. Hutton (1892). 
Mansel, Henry Longueville, D.D. 
(b. Cosgrove, Northamptonshire, Octo- 
ber 6th, 1820; ἃ, Cosgrove, July 31st, 
1871). ‘‘ Demons of the Winds, and 
Other Poems”? (1838) ; Aldrich’s ‘‘ Logie, 
with Notes’? (1849); ‘* Prolegomena 
Logica’? (1851); ‘‘The Philosophy of 
Kant ’’ (1856); an article on ‘‘ Meta- 
physics’ in the eighth edition of ‘‘ En- 
cyclopedia Britannica ’’ (1857); ‘‘ The 
Limits of Religious Thought,’’ being the 
“ἐ Bampton Lectures ’’ for 1858 ; ‘‘ Meta- 
physics; or, the Philosophy of Con- 
sciousness’? (1860) ; ‘‘ Lectures on His- 
tory ’’ (1861-62) ; ‘* The Witness of the 
Church to the Promise of Christ’s 
Coming ’’ (1864); ‘‘ The Philosophy of 
the Conditioned’? (1866); and other 
works. 


Marlowe, Christopher (b. Canter- 
bury, February, 1564; d. Deptford, 
June 16th, 1593). ‘‘ Tamburlaine the 
Great, Part the First’? (1590) ; ‘‘Tam- 
burlaine the Great, Part the Second ’’ 
(1590) ; ‘‘ Edward the Second ᾽ (1594) ; 
‘* Dido”? (with T. Nash, 1594) ; ““ Ovid’s 
Elegies”’ (translated about 1596) ; ‘‘ Hero 
and Leander ’’ (completed by Chapman, 
1598) ; ‘‘ First Book of Lucan”? (trans- 
lated 1600); ‘‘ The Tragicall History-of 


Marshall 


Dr. Faustus’’ (1604); ‘‘The Jew of 
Malta’’ (1633); and ‘‘The Massacre 
at Paris.’ For Biographical Notices of 
Marlowe, sce ‘‘Athene Cantabrigi- 
enses;’’ Beard’s ‘‘ Theatre of God’s 
Judgments’? (1597) ; Meres’ “ Palladis 
Tamia’’ (1598); Vaughan’s ‘ Golden 
Grove, Moralised in Three Books” 
(1600) ; Dyce’s ‘‘ Edition of the Works;”’ 
and Robert Bell’s ‘‘ Introduction to the 
Poems.”’ 


Marryat, Florence (now Mrs. Lean) 
Ὁ. Brighton, 1837). ‘* For Ever and 

ver ᾽ (1866); ““ Véronique ’’ (1869) ; 
‘* Life and Letters of Captain Marryat’”’ 
(1872) ; ‘‘ Her Father’s Name’ (1876) ; 
‘*A Harvest of Wild Oats’’ (1877) ; 
“With Cupid’s Eyes’’ (1881); ‘* How 
She Loved Him’”’ (1882); ‘‘ Facing the 
Footlights ’’ (1883); ‘* The: Master 
Passion’? (1886) ; ‘*On Circumstantial 
Evidence ’’ (1889) ; ‘‘ Mount Eden ”’ 
(1889) ; ‘* Blindfold ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ There is 
no Death’’ (1891) ; ‘* Miss om 5 }." 
Husband’’ (1891); ‘‘How Like ἃ 
Woman ”’ (1892); ‘‘ The Nobler Sex ”’ 
(1892); ‘* The Hampstead Mystery ”’ 
ate ; “ Parson Jones ’’ (1893) ; ‘The 

eautiful Soul’? (1894) ; “Α Bankrupt 
Heart ’’ (1894) ; ‘‘The Spint World” 
(1894), ete. 


Marryat, Captain Frederick (b. 
London, July 10th, 1792; d. Langham, 
Norfolk, August 2nd, 1848). ‘‘ Frank 
Mildmay ; or, the Naval Officer ’’ (1829) ; 
“The King’s Own’’ (1830) ; ‘‘ Newton 
Forster’? (1832); ‘‘ Peter Simple ”’’ 
(1834) ; ‘‘ Jacob Faithful’’ (1834); ‘* The 
Pacha of Many Tales’ (1835) ; ‘‘Japhet 
in Search of a Father ’”’ (1836); ‘* Mr. 
Midshipman Easy ’’ (1836) ; ‘‘ The Pirate 
and the Three Cutters’’ (1836) ; ‘‘ Snar- 
ley-yow ’’ (1837); ‘‘ The Phantom Ship”’ 
(1839); “Α Diary in America ’’ (1839) ; 
‘*Olla Podrida ’’ (1840) ; ‘‘ Poor Jack”’ 
(1840); ‘‘ Masterman Ready’’ (1841) ; 
“Joseph Rushbrook”’ (1841); ‘‘ Percival 
Keene ’’ (1842); ‘‘ Monsieur Violet ’’ 
(1842) ; ‘* The Settlers in Canada ”’ 
(1843) ; ‘‘ The Privateer’s Man”’ (1844); 
“ ΤῊ 6. Mission; or, Scenes in Africa ”’ 
(1845) ; ‘“‘ The Children of the New 
Forest ’’ (1847) ; ‘The Little Savage ”’ 
(1847) ; and ‘‘ Valerie ’”’ (1849). His 
‘* Life ’’ has been written by his daughter 
Florence (1872). 


Professor Alfred (Ὁ. 
1842). ‘* Economics of Industry,’’ part 
author (1879); ‘‘ Principles of Econ- 
omics ᾿ (1890) ; ‘‘Elements of Econ- 
omics of Industry.’’ (1892). 


Marston 


1387 


Marvell 


Marston, John (b. 1575; d. after 
1633). ‘‘ The Scourge of Villanie ᾽" 
(1598) ; ‘‘ The Metamorphosis of Pig- 
malion’s Image ”’ (1598) ; ‘‘ Antonio and 
Mellida ’’ (16U2) ; ‘‘Antonio’s Revenge ”’ 
(1602) ; ‘The Malcontent’? (1604) ; 
“* Bastward-Hoe!”’ (in conjunction with 
Chapman and Johnson, 1605); ‘The 
Dutch Courtezan”’ (1605); ‘‘ Parasitaster ; 
or, the Fawn ”’ (1606) ; ‘‘ The Wonder of 
Women ”’ (1606) ; ‘‘ What You Will’’ 
(1607) ; ‘‘ The Insatiate Countess”’ (1613); 
and several minor publications, His 
“Works”? were edited by Bowles in 
1764, by Halliwell (with ‘ Life’’) in 
1856, by Gifford and by A. H, Bullen 
in 1887. See also Wood’s ‘‘ Athens 
Oxonienses,’’ Warton’s ““ English 
Poetry,’’ Ritson’s ‘‘ Bibliographia Poet- 
ica,’ Lhe Retrospective Review, Lamb’s 
‘*Works,’’ Hazlitt’s ‘‘Age of Eliza- 
beh,’ Leigh FEunt’s ‘Imagination 
and Fancy,’’ the “ Dictionary of National 
Biography,’? and “forley’s ‘‘ English 
Writers,’’ vol. x. 

Marston, Jchn Vesticnd (Ὁ. Boston, 
January 30th, 1820; ἃ. January δίῃ, 
1890). ‘* The Patrician’s Daughter ”’ 
(1841) ; ‘‘ The Heart and the World’’ 
(1847) ; ete. Dramatic and Poetic 
Works (1876); ‘‘ Our Recent ‘Actors”’ 
(1888). 

Marston, Philip Bourke (b. 1850; 
d. 1887). ‘‘Song ‘Tide’? (1871); ‘* All 
in All’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Wind-voices ’’ (1884) ; 
“For a Song’s Sake and other Stories ”’ 
(1887). 

Martin, Sir Theodere, LL.D. (Ὁ. 
Edinburgh, 1810). With Professor 
Aytoun, the ‘‘Bon Gaultier Ballads ”’ 
(1854) ; *‘ Poems, Original and Selected ”’ 
(1863); ‘‘ Life of Aytoun’”’ (1867); 
“The Life of the Prince Consort ’’ 
(1874-80) ; ‘‘ Life of Lord Lyndhurst”’ 
(1883); ‘‘Sketch of the Life of Prin- 
cess Alice’? (1885) ; ‘‘Shakespeare or 
Bacon?’’’ (1888), and the translator (with 
Aytoun) of ‘‘ Poems and Ballads of 
Goethe”? (1858) ; of Céhlenschlager’s 
“ Correggio’’ and ‘‘Aladdin”’ (1854 and 
1857) ; of Horace’s ‘‘ Odes ’’ (1860) ; the 
“*Poems’’ of Catullus (1861) ; Dante’s 
‘Vita Nuova’? (1862); Goethe’s 
“Faust ’’ (the first part in 1865, the 
second in 1886); Hartz’s ‘‘ King Réné’s 


Daughter’? and Heine’s ‘‘ Poems”’ 
(1878). 
Martineau, Harriet (b. Norwich, 


June 12th, 1802; d. Ambleside, June 
27th, 1876). ‘‘ Devotional Exercises for 
the Use of Young Persons’ (1829) ; 
“ Christmas Day”’ (1824) ; ‘‘ The Friend’”’ 


(1825) ; ‘‘ Principle and Practice ’’ (1826) ; 
“ΤῊ Rioters’’ (1826); ‘‘ The Turn-Out’’ 
(1827); ‘‘ Traditions of Palestine’? 
(1830) ; ‘‘ Illustrations of Taxation ’’ 
(1834) ; ‘‘ Poor Laws and Paupers’’ 
(1834) ; ‘‘Society in America’’ (1887) ; 
“* Retrospect of Western Travel’’ (1838) ; 
“ Deerbrook ”’ (1839) ; *‘ The Hour and 
the Man” (1840) ; ‘‘ Life in the Sick 
Room: Essays by an Inyalid’’ (1843) ; 
** Letters . on Mesmerism’’ (1845) ; 
“Forest and Game Law Tales’’ (1845) ; 
‘The Billow and the Rock’’ (1846) ; 
“Eastern Life, Past and Present”’ 
(1847) ; ‘‘ History of England during 
the Thirty Years’ Peace, 1816-46”’ 
(1849-50) ; “᾿ Introduction to the History 
of the Peace from 1800 to 1815”’ (1851); 
‘*The Laws of Man’s Nature and De- 
velopment’? (with Atkinson, 1851) ; 
a condensation of the ‘‘ Philosophie 
Positive ’’ of Comte (1853) ; ‘‘ Household 
Education ’’ (1854) ; ‘‘ Complete Guide 
to the Lakes’’ (1854); ‘‘'the Factory 
Controversy’’ (1855); ‘fA History of 
the American Compromise ’’ (1856) ; 
‘* British Rule in India ’’ (1857) ; ‘‘ Cor- 
porate Tradition and National Rights ”’ 
(1857) ; ‘‘ Local Dues on Shipping ”’ 
(1857); ‘‘ England and her Soldiers ”’ 
(1859) ; ‘*‘ Endowed Schools in Ireland ἢ 
(1859) ;  ‘‘ Health, Husbandry, and 
Handicraft ’’ (1861); ‘‘ Biographical 
Sketches ’’ (1872), ete. Sce her ‘‘ Auto- 
biography ’’ (1877); and ‘‘ Life’’ by 
Mrs. Fenwick Miller. 


Martineau, James, D.D., LL.D. (b. 
Norwich, April 21st, 1805). ‘‘The Ra- 
tionale of Religious Inquiry’ (1837); 
‘Hymns of the Christian Church and 
Home’’ (1840) ; ‘‘ Endeavours after the 
Christian Life ’’ (1843, 1847) ; ‘‘ Miscel- 
lanies’’ (1852); ‘‘Studies of Christianity ”’ 
(1858) ; ‘‘ Essays’’ (1869) ; ‘‘ Hymns of 
Praise and Prayer’’ (1874) ; ‘‘ Religion 
and Modern Materialism’’ (1874) ; 
“Hours of Thought’’ (1876); ‘‘ Ideal 
Substitutes for God’ (1878) ; ‘‘ Essays, 
Philosophical and Theological ᾽᾽ (1879) ; 
“Α Study of Spinoza ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Types 
of Ethical Theory ᾽᾿ (1885); “ΑΔ Study 
of Religion’? (1888); ‘‘The Seat of 
Authority in Religion”’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Essays, 
Reviews, and Addresses’’ (1890-91) ; 
“Home Prayers’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ The Three 
Stages of Unitarian Theology ’’ (1894). 


Marvell, Andrew (b. Winestead, 
Holderness, November 15th, 1620; d. 
August 12th, 1678). ‘The Rehearsal 
Transposed’’ (1672); ‘‘Mr. Smirke’”’ 
(1674); ‘‘An Account of the Growth 
of Popery and Arbitrary Government 


Massey 


in England’? (1678); ‘‘ Miscellaneous 
Poems”’ (1681); and ‘A Seasonable 
Argument.’? ‘‘ Works,’’ with ‘‘ Life” 
by Cooke, in 1772, and by Thompson in 
1776. 

Massey, Gerald (b. Tring, Hert- 
fordshire, May 29th, 1828). ‘* Poems 
and Chansons’’ (1846); ‘* Voices of Free- 
dom and Lyrics of Love’’ (1849) ; ‘* The 
Ballad of Babe Christabel, and Other 
Poems’”’ (1855) ; ‘* Craigcrook Castle, and 
Other Poems’ (1866); ‘* Havelock’s 
March, and Other Poems” (1861) ; 
‘* Shakespeare’s Sonnets and his Private 
Friends ”’ (1866) ; ‘‘ A Tale of Eternity, 
and Other Poems’’ (1869); ‘‘ Carmen 
Nuptiale’’ (7 1880) ; ‘* My Lyrical Life: 
Poems Old and New ”’ (1889), ete. 


Massinger, Philip (b. Salisbury, 
1584; ἃ. London, March, 1638). ‘* The 
Virgin Martyr’’ (1622); ‘‘ The Duke of 
Milan ᾽ (162%); ‘* The Bondman’”’ (1624); 
“The Roman Actor’? (1629); ‘The 
Renegado”’ (1630); "ὙΠῸ Picture’’ (1630); 
‘“The Emperor of the East’? (1632) ; 
‘The Fatal Dowry’’ (1632); ‘* The Maid 
ot Honour”’ (1632); ‘* A New Way to Pay 
Old Debts ’’ (1633) ; ‘* The Great Duke 
of Florence ’’ (1686); ‘‘ The Unnatural 
Combat’’ (1689); ‘‘Alexius; or, the 
Chaste Lover ”’ (1639) ; ‘‘ The Fair An- 
choress of Pausilippo’’ (1640); ‘‘ The 
Noble Choice’’ (1643); ‘*‘ The Wandering 
Lovers’’ (1658) ; ‘‘ Philenzo and Hippo- 
lyta’’ (1653) ; ‘The Spanish Viceroy ”’ 
(1653) ; ** Minerva’s Sacrifice’? (1658) ; 
‘* Believe as You List’’ (1653) ; ‘‘ The 
Guardian ᾽ (1655); ‘‘ A Very Woman”’ 
(1655) ; “ΤῊ Bashful Lover’’ (1655) ; 
“The City Madam”’ (1659) ; ‘‘ Antonio 
and Vallia’’ (1660); ‘‘The Tyrant” 
(1660) ; ‘‘ Fast and Welcome” (1660) ; 
“The Old Law,”’ ‘‘ The Judge,”’ ‘*‘ The 
Honour of Women,” ‘‘The Forced Lady,”’ 
‘The Woman’s Plot,’’ ‘‘ The Parliament 
of Love,’’ ‘‘The Unfortunate Piety,’’ 
“The Tragedy of Cleander,’’ ‘‘ The 
Orator,’’ ‘‘ The King and the Subject,”’ 
and other pieces. The ‘‘ Works’”’ of 
Massinger were edited by Gifford and 
Lieut.-Colonel Cunningham (cheap edi- 
tion, with the addition of the recovered 
“ Believe as You List’’ 1874). ‘‘ Some 
Account of his Life and Writings” 


Ww blished by Tl Davies 1 
was publishe y Thomas Davies in | Motion.”” 


1858. 
Masson, David (b. Aberdeen, De- 
cember 2nd, 1822). ‘Essays, Bio- 


graphical and Critical, chiefly on English 
Poets’? (1856); ‘‘The Life of John 
Milton ’’ (six vols., 1858-79); ‘‘ British 
Novelists and their Styles” (1859) ; 


1338 


May 


“Recent British Philosophy ’’ (1865) ; 
“ Drummond of Hawthornden ’’ (1873) ; 
‘““The Three Devils—Milton’s, Luther's, 
and Goethe’s’’ (1874); ‘* Wordsworth, 
Shelley, Keats, οἷς." (1874); ‘De 
Quincey”? in the English Men of 
Letters series (1878); ‘*‘A Memoir of 
Goldsmith ’’ (1879); ‘* Carlyle’’ (1885). 
‘*Edinburgh Sketches and Memories”’ 
(1892). Has edited Cambridge ‘* Milton”’ 
1874) ; the Collected Writings of ‘Vhomas 
e Quincey, ete. 


Matheson, Rev. George, D.D. (b. 
Glasgow, March 27th, 1842). ‘* Aids to 
the Study of German Theology ’’ (1874); 
‘*Growth of the Spirit of Christianity ”’ 
(ΠῚ; ‘Natural Elements of Revealed 
Theology ™ (1881) ; " Religion of China’”’ 
(1881) ; ** Confucianism ’’ (1882) ; ** Can 
the Old Faith Live with the New?;”’ 
(1885) ; ‘* The Psalmist and the Scien- 
tist’’ (1887); ‘‘Landmarks of New 
Testament Morality ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Voices 
of the Spirit’’ (1888) ; ‘* Spiritual De- 
velopment of St. Paul’? (1890) ; *‘ Sacred 
Songs ”’ (1890) ; ‘* Distinctive Messages 
of the Old Religions ”’ (1892) ; ** Search- 
ings in the Silence ’’ (1894), ete. 


Maurice, Frederick Denison (". 
August 29th, 1806; ἃ. April Ist, 1872). 
‘* Eustace Conyers ;’’ ‘* Subseription no 
Bondage ;’’ ‘‘ The Kingdom of Christ’’ 
(1842) ; ‘* History of Moral and Physical 
Philosophy ’’ (1853-62); ‘* Theological 
Essays’? (1854) ; ‘* Patriarchs and Law- 
givers of the Old Testament’’ (1855) ; 
‘* The Bible and Science’’ (1863) ; ‘‘ The 

ingdom of Heaven ’’ (1864) ; ‘* Conflict 
of Good and Evil”’ (18645) ; “ὙΠῸ Com- 
mandments”’ (1866) ; ‘‘ Christian Ethics’’ 
(1867); ‘‘ The Conscience”’ (1868); ‘‘ Social 
Morality ’’ (1869); ‘‘The Friendship of 
Books ’’ (1873), ete. Sce ‘‘ The Lite of 
F. Maurice, edited by his son, F. 
Maurice ’’ (1884). 


Maxwell, James Clerk (b. June 
13th, 1831; ἃ. November éth, 1879). 
‘‘ The Stability of the Motion of Saturn’s 
Rings ”’ (1859) ; ‘‘ The Kinetic Theory of 
Gases ;’’ ‘‘ Faraday’s Lines of Force ;”’ 
“ Theory of Heat’’ (1871) ; ‘‘ A Treatise 
on Electricity and Magnetism ”’ (1873) ; 
‘‘ The Electrical Researches of the Hon. 
Henry Cavendish;’’ ‘Matter and 
See his ‘‘Life’’ by Prof. 
Campbell and W. Garnett (1882). 


May, Thomas (b. Mayfield, Sussex, 
1594; ἃ. November 30th, 1650). ‘‘ The 
Heir’? (1622); ‘‘ Antigone’? (1631) ; 
“ΤῊ Reigneof King Henry the Second”’ 
(1633) ; ‘‘The Victorious Reigne of King 


May 


1389 


Mill 


Edward the Third”’ (1635); ‘‘Cleopatra”’ 
(1639) ; ‘‘ Julia Agrippina, Empresse of 
Rome’? (1639); ‘‘Supplementum Lucani’”’ 
(1640) ; ‘‘ The History of the Parliament 
of England which began November 3rd, 
1640’ (1647); ‘‘ A Breviary of the His- 
tory of the Parliament of England”’ 
(1650); ‘‘The Old Couple’ (1658) ; 
translations of Virgil’s ‘‘ Georgics,’’ 
Tuean’s ‘‘ Pharsalia,’’? some of Martial’s 
‘* Epigrams,’’ Barclay’s ‘‘ Argenis,’’ and 
some other works. See The New Monthly 
Magazine, vol. ii. 


May, Sir Thomas, Erskine, D.C.L. 
(Ὁ. 1815; d. 1886). ‘* A Treatise on the 
Law, Privileges, Proceedings, and Usage 
of Parliament’’ (1844); ‘‘ Constitu- 
tional History of England since the 
Accession of George III.”’ (1861-63, 1871); 
““Democracy in Europe: a History”’ 
(1877), ete. 


Meredith, George (b. Hampshire, 
1828). ““ Poems”’ (1851) ; ‘‘ The Shav- 
ing of Shagpat’? (1855); ‘‘ Farina: 
a Legend of Cologne’? (1857) ; ‘‘ The 
Ordeal of Richard Feverel’’ (1859) ; 
‘Mary Bertrand ”’ (1860) ; ‘‘ Evan Har- 
rington’’ (1861) ; “ Modern Love: Poems 
and Ballads’’ (1862), republished 1892 
with ‘‘The Sage Enamoured”’ and 
‘“The Honest Lady ;’’ ‘‘ Emilia in Eng- 
land”? (1854); ‘‘Rhoda Fleming”’ 
(1865) ; ‘* Vittoria ’’ (1866); ‘‘ Adven- 
tures of Harry Richmond” (1871) ; 
‘‘Beauchamp’s Career’’ (1875); ‘‘ The 
Egoist ’’ (1879); ‘‘ Tragic Comedians”’ 
(1881) ; ‘Poems and Lyrics of the Joy 
of Earth ᾽ (1883) ; ‘‘ Diana of the Cross- 
ways ”’ (1885); ‘‘ Poems and Ballads”’ 
(1887) ; “Α Reading of Earth”’ (1888) ; 
“Tale of Chloe’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ One of Our 
Conquerors’’ (1891); ‘‘Jump-to-Glory 
Jane’’ (1892); ‘‘The Empty Purse ”’ 
(1892) ; ‘* Lord Ormont and his Aminta”’ 
(1894) ; ‘‘ Ballads and Poems of Tragic 
Life’’ (1894). See Le Gallienne’s 
‘George Meredith ”’ (1890). 


Merivale, Charles, D.D., Dean of 
Ely (b. 1808; d. December 26th, 1893). 
“History of the Romans under the 
Empire” (1850-64); ‘‘ Conversion of 
the Roman Empire’’ (1864); ‘‘Con- 
version of the Northern Nations”’ 
(1865); ‘‘ General History of Rome”’ 


(1875) ; ‘‘ Lectures on Early Church 
History’ (1879); translation of the 
Iliad, ete. 


Meynell, Mrs. Alice, 7é¢ Thompson 
(b. Barnes). “ Preludes’? (1875) ; 
ὡς The Poor Sisters of Nazareth’ (1889) ; 
“The ‘Rhythm of Life” etc. (1893) ; 


““Poems’’ (1893); ‘‘ Lourdes: Yester- 
day, To-Day, and To-Morrow,”’ trans- 
lation (1894). 


Middleton, Conyers, D.D. (b. Rich- 
mond, Yorkshire, December 27th, 1683 ; 
d. July 28th, 1750). ‘‘ A Method for the 
Management of a Library’’ (1728) ; “A 
Letter from Rome ”’ (1729) ; ‘‘ A Disser- 
tation on the Origin of Printing in Eng- 
land”’ (1735) ; “ὙΠῸ History of the Life 
of Marcus Tullius Cicero ’’ (1711) ; ‘‘The 
Letters of Cicero to Brutus, and of 
Brutus to Cicero”’ (1743); ‘‘ A Free 
Inquiry into Miracles’’ (1749). His 
“ Works ’’ were collected in 1752. 


Middleton, Thomas (b. 1570; d. 
July, 1627). ‘*‘ The Wisdom of Solomon 
Paraphrased’’ (1597); ‘* Blurt, Master 
Constable; or, the Spaniard’s Night 
Walke’’ (1602) ; ‘‘ Michaelmas Terme ”’ 
(1607) ; ‘‘ Patient Grissel’’ (1607) ; ‘‘The 
Pheenix ’’ (1607) ; ‘*‘ Four Fine Gallants”’ 
(1607) ; ‘‘ The Familie of Love’’ (1608) ; 
«Α Mad World, My Masters’’ (1608) ; 
‘A Tricke to Catch the Old One”’ 
(1608) ; ““ Account of Sir Robert Sherley ἢ 
(1609); ‘The Triumphs of Truth”’ 
(1613) ; ““ Civitatis Amor ”’ (1616) ; ‘‘ The 
Triumphs of Honour and Industry ”’ 
(1617) ; ‘‘ A Fair Quarrel”’ (1617) ; ‘‘The 
Triumphsof Loveand Antiquity”’ (1619) ; 
“ς ΤῊ 6 Masque of Heroes”’ (1619); “A 
Courtly Masque ’”’ (1620) ; ‘The Sun in 
Aries’? (1621); ‘‘The Triumphs of 
Honour and Virtue’”’ (1622); ‘‘ The 
Triumphs of Integrity’’ (1623); ‘‘ The 
GameatChesse’’ (1624) ;‘‘ The Triumphs 
of Health and Prosperity ’’ (1626) ; ‘‘ The 
Chast Mayd in Cheape-side,’’ ‘‘ The 
Widow,’’ ‘‘The Changeling’? (1653) ; 
“The Spanish Gipsie’”’ (1653) ; ‘‘ The 
Old Law,” ‘‘ More Dissemblers Besides 
Women” (1657); ‘‘Women Beware 
Women’”’ (1657); ‘‘No Wit, no Help 
like a Woman’s’’ (1657) ; ‘‘ The Mayor 
of Quinborough’’ (1661); ‘ Anything 
for a Quiet Life’’ (1662) ;‘‘ The Witch”’ 
(1778) ; and other works. The ‘‘ Works”’ 
of Middleton were edited in 1840, with 
‘Some Account of the Author, and 
Notes,’’ by the Rev. Alexander Dyce. 
For Criticism, see Hazlitt’s ‘“‘ Elizabethan 
Literature ’’ and Lamb’s ‘‘ Specimens of 
Dramatic Poets.’’ See also the ‘‘ Dic- 
tionary of National Biography.” 


Mill, James (b. Northwater Bridge, 
Montrose, April 6th, 1773; d. Kensing- 
ton, June 23rd, 1836). ‘‘ Essay on the 
Impolicy of a Country in the Exporta- 
tion of Grain’’ (1804); a translation, 
with notes, of Villiers’ ‘‘ Essay on Luther 


Mill 


and the Reformation ’’ (1805) ;”’ a ‘* His- 
tory of British India ’’ (1817-18) ; ‘‘ Ele- 
ments of Political Economy ”’ (1821-22) ; 
‘* Analysis of the Phenomena of the 
Human Mind” (1829); “Τὴ Prin- 
ciples of Toleration’’ (1837), ete. See 
Bain’s ‘‘ James Mill, a Biography” (1882). 


Mill, John Stuart (b. London, 
May 20th, 1806; d. Avignon, May 8th, 
1873). ‘‘System of Logic’? (1843) ; 
κε Essays on Some Unsettled Questions 
in Political Economy ’’ (1844); ‘ Prin- 
ciples of Political Economy’’ (1848) ; 
‘* An Essay on Liberty ’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ Disser- 
tations and Discussions’? (1859-67) ; 
“Thoughts on Parliamentary Reform ”’ 
(1859) ; ‘* Considerations on Representa- 
tive Government,’’? “ὁ Utilitarianism ”’ 
(1862) ; ‘‘ Auguste Comteand Positivism ”’ 
(1865) ; ‘‘An Examination of Sir William 
Hamilton’s Philosophy ”’ (1865) ; ‘* The 
Subjection of Women’? (1867); ‘* Ad- 
dress to the Students of St. Andrews”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘ England and Ireland ”’ (1868) ; 
“The Irish Land Question’* (1870) ; 
and ‘‘ Nature, and other Essays ’’ (1874). 
See his ‘‘ Autobiography ᾽ (1873) and 
Bain’s ‘‘ Personal Recollections ’’ (1882). 
For Criticism, see Taine’s ‘‘ English Lit- 
erature,’’ vol. iv.; Ribot’s ‘‘ Contem- 
porary English Psychology”’ ; and Court- 
ney’s ‘‘Metaphysics of John Stuart 
Mill’’ (1879), ete. 

Miller, Hugh (b. Cromarty, October 
10th, 1802; d. Portobello, December 
23rd, 1856). ‘‘ Poems Written in the 
Leisure Hours οἵ ἃ Journeyman Mason ”’ 
(1829) ; ‘*Scenes and Legends in the 
North of Scotland’’ (1834); ‘* The Old 
Red Sandstone’’ (1841) ; ‘‘ First Impres- 
sions of England and Its People”’ (1847) ; 
“Footprints of the Creator’ (1850) ; 
ΝΥ Schools and Schoolmasters ’’ (1854); 
“The Testimony of the Rocks’? (1857) ; 
“‘TheCruise of the Betsy’? (1858) ; ‘* The 
Headship of Christ ;’’ ‘‘ Edinburgh and 
its Neighbourhood;’’ ‘Tales and 
Sketches; ᾽ a ‘‘Sketch-book of Popular 
Geology ;’’ and ‘‘ Miscellaneous Essays,’ 
Edited The Witness. His complete 
‘““Works’’ have been published in a 
uniform shape. ‘‘ Life’’ by Peter Bayne 
(1870). 

Milman, Henry Hart, D.D., Dean of 
St. Paul’s (b. London, February 10th, 
1791; ἃ. Septeniber 24th, 1868). ‘* The 
Apollo Belvedere ”’ (1812) ; ‘‘ Alexander 
Tumulum Achillis invisens’’ (1813) ; 
“* Fazio ’? (1815) ; ‘‘Samor”’ (1818) ; ‘The 
Fall of Jerusalem”? (1820) ; ‘‘ The Martyr 
of Antioch’’ . (1822); ‘‘ Belshazzar’’ 
(1822) ; ‘‘ Poems”’ (1826) ; “Anne Boleyn”’ 


1390 


Milton 


ee 


(1826) ; ‘‘ The Office of the Christian 
Teacher Considered’? (1826); ‘The 
Character and Conduct of the Apostles 
Considered as an Evidence of Christi- 
anity ’’ (1828) ; a ‘‘ History of the Jews” 
(1829-30); ‘* Nala and Damayanti,’’ 
and other translations from the Sanscrit 
(1834); a ‘Life of Edward Gibbon ἢ 
(1839) ; a ‘‘ History of Christianity *’ 
(1840) ; a ‘* Life of Horace,’ prefixed 
to an edition of his ‘* Works’ (1849) ; 
a ‘History of Latin Christianity ’’ (1854- 
55); and various contributions to Tie 
Quarterly Review, which have been re- 
published in 1870. 


Milton, John (b. London, December 
9th, 1608; ἃ, London, November 8th, 
1674). Written before 1632 :—First four 
‘Familiar Epistles;’’ ‘‘ Prolusiones 
queedam Oratorie;’’ first seven pieces 
in ‘Elegiarum Liber;’’ first six of 
‘*Sylvarum Liber;’’ ‘‘On the Death 
of a Fair Infant’’ (1626); ““ Vacation 
Exercise’’ (1628); ‘‘Hymn on _ the 
Nativity ’’ (1629) ; ‘‘On the Passion ;”’ 
“On Time ;”’ ** On the Circumcision ; ”’ 
** Ata Solemn Musick ”’ (1630); ‘‘ Song 
on May Morning”’ (1680); ‘* On Shake- 
speare ἢ (1630); ‘On the University 
Carrier;’’ ‘*‘ Another on the same;”’ 
‘Epitaph on the Marchioness of Win- 
chester ;”? ‘‘Sonnet on Twenty-third 
Birthday ”’ (1631). Between 1632 and 
1637:—Three of ‘‘ Familiar Epistles ;” 
“Sonnet to the Nightingale ;’’ ‘‘ L’Al- 
legro;’’ ‘Il Penseroso;’’ ‘‘ Arcades’? 
(1633) ; ‘‘Comus’”’ (1634) ; ‘‘ Lycidas’”? 
(1637). After travels abroad. (1637) :— 
«ΟΥ̓ Reformation;:’’? “Οἵ Prelatical 
Episcopacy ;”’ ‘‘ The Reason of Church 
Government urged against Prelacy ;”’ 
‘* Animadversions against the Remon- 
strant’s Defence ;’’ ‘‘ Apology against 
a Pamphlet called ‘A Modest Confuta- 
tion,’’’ ete. After marriage with Mary 
Powell (1643) :—‘‘ Doctrine and Disci- 
pline of Divorce’’ (1644) ; ‘‘ Judgment 
of Martin Bucer touching Divorce”’ 
(translated extracts) ; ‘‘On Education ; ἢ 
** Areopagitica’’ (1644); ‘‘ Tetrachord- 
on’? (1645); ‘* Colasterion’’ (1645) ; 
“Tenure of Kings and Magistrates ;”’ 
“Observations on Articles of Peace ”’ 
(1649) ; ‘‘ Ikonoclastes *’ (1649); ‘‘ Pro 
Populo Anglicano Defensio’’ (1651) ; 
“* Defensio Secunda”’ (1654) ; ‘‘ Authoris 
pro se Defensio contra Alexandrum 
Morum;”’ ‘ Ecclesiasten ;’’ ‘* Authoris 
ad Alexandri Mori Supplementum Re- 
sponsio’’ (1655). His twenty years of 
polemical writing close with ‘‘ A Treatise 
of Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes;”’ 


Minto 


1391 


Molesworth 


‘* Considerations touching the Means to 


Remove Hirelings out of the Church; ”’ 
“Letter to a Friend concerning Rup- 
tures of the Commonwealth ;”’ ‘‘ Ready 
Way to Establish a True Common- 
wealth ;’’ ‘‘ Brief Notes upon a Late 
Sermon entitled, ‘The Fear of God and 
the King.’’’ After his pardon by the 
Oblivion Act, and his third marriage 
(1664) :—‘‘ Accidence Commenc’t Gram- 
mar ;’’ ‘‘ History of Britain;’’ ‘‘ Artis 
Logice Plenior Institutis;’’? “ΟΥ̓ True 
Religion ;’’ ‘‘ Epist. Fam. Liber Unus;”’ 
“ὁ Brief History of Moscovia ;’’ ‘‘ Litera 
Senatus Anglicani;’? ‘‘De Doctrina 
Christiana ;’’ ‘‘ Paradise Lost ’’ (1667) ; 
“Paradise Regained ᾽ (1671) ; ‘‘ Samson 
Agonistes ’’ (1671) ; translation of ‘‘ De- 
claration of the Poles on the Election of 
Sobieski,’? with ‘‘ Hpist. Fam.’’ and 
“ς Acad. Exercises’’ (1674). He edited 
two MSS. of Raleigh’s—‘‘ The Cabinet 
Council’? (1658) and ‘‘ Aphorisms of 
State’? (1661). A Commonplace Book 
and a Latin Essay and Latin Verses, 
presumed (on almost conclusive proofs) 
to be by Milton, edited for Camden 
Society (1570). 

More than 140 editions of Milton pub- 
lished. Concordances by Prendergast 
(Madras, 1857-59), Cleveland (London, 
1867), and Dr. John Bradshaw (1895). 
See Masson’s “" Life of Milton’? (4 vols., 
1858-59), his accurate edition of Milton’s 
Poetical Works (1874); ‘‘ Milton und 
seine Zeit,’? by Stern (Leip.); Stop- 
ford Brooke’s ‘‘ Milton” (‘‘ Classical 
Writers’’) (1879); the monograph in 
Men of Letters, by Pattison (1879) ; 
Dr. R. Bridges’ ‘‘ Milton’s Prosody”’ 
(1893), ete. Facsimile of ‘‘ Paradise 
Lost,’’ by Elliot Stock (1877). See also 
the ‘‘ Dictionary of National Biography.”’ 


Minto, Professor William (Ὁ. 
Auchintoul, Aberdeenshire, October 
10th, 1845; ἃ. March Ist, 1893). ‘‘Eng- 
lish Prose Literature”’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Cha- 
racteristics of English Poets’’ (1874) ; 
“‘Defoe’’ (1879) ; ‘‘ The Crack of Doom”’ 
(1886) ; ‘The Mediation of Ralph Harde- 
lot ᾽" (1888) ; ‘‘ Was She Good or Bad?”’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Logic, Inductive and Deduc- 
tive’’ (1898) ; ‘‘ The Literature of the 
Georgian Era’’ (1894), etc. Was editor 
of the Lxaminer. 


Mitford, Mary Russell (b. Alres- 
ford, Hampshire, December 16th, 1787 ; 
d. near Reading, January 10th, 1855). 
ἐ Christine’? (1811); ‘‘Poems on the 
Female Character’’ (1812); ‘‘ Watlington 
Ball. (1812))3 “So duliany?) (1828))5 SS Our 
Village’? (1824); ‘‘Foscari’’ (1826) ; 


“ Rienzi’’ (1828) ; ‘Charles the First,’’ 
‘* American Stories for Young People”’ 
(1832) ; ‘‘ Lights and Shadows of Ameri- 
can Life’’ (1832); ‘‘ Belford Regis”’ 
(1835) ; ‘‘ Country Stories’? (1837) ; 
‘Recollections of a Literary Life ”’ 
(1851); ‘‘ Atherton and Other Tales’’ 
(1854); and other works. For Bio- 
graphy, sce Miss Mitford’s ‘‘ Life and 
Letters,’ edited by Harness and 
L’Estrange; ‘‘ Letters,’ edited by 
Henry F. Chorley; and the ‘‘ Life and 
Letters of Charles Boner.”’ 


Mitford, William (b. London, Feb- 
ruary 10th, 1744; d. February δίῃ, 
1827). ‘‘Treatise on the Military Force, 
and particularly on the Militia of this 
Kingdom”? (1774); ‘‘ Inquiry into the 
Principles of Harmony in Language 
and of the Mechanism of Verse, Modern 
and Ancient” (1774); ‘‘History of 
Greece’’ (1784, 1790, 1797, 1808, 1818); 
and ‘‘ Observations on the History and 
Doctrine of Christianity’? (1823). See 
the Life prefixed by Lord Redesdale to 
‘History ’’ (1829). 


Mivart, Professor St. George, 
London, November 30th, 


“The Genesis 


Mind and Matter ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘The Cat”’ 
(1881) ; ‘‘ Nature and Thought’’ (1883) ; 
‘*Philosophical Catechism’? (1884) ; ‘The 
Origin of Human Reason ”’ (1889); “ΟΠ 
Truth: A Systematic Inquiry’ (1889) ; 
“Dogs, Jackals, and Wolves’’ (1890) ; 
‘Birds: the Elements of Ornithology ”’ 
(1892); ‘‘ Essays and Criticisms”’ (1892) ; 
‘* An Introduction to the Elements of 
Science’? (1893); ‘‘Types of Animal 
Life ’’ (1893). 

Moir, David Macbeth, “᾿ Delta”’ 
(Ὁ. Musselburgh, January 6th, 1798; 
ἃ. Dumfries, July 6th, 1851). ‘The 
Bombardment of Algiers, and Other 
Poems ”’ (1818) ; ‘‘ The Legend of Gene- 
vitve, and Other Tales’’ (1824); ‘‘The 
Autobiography of Mansie Waugh” 
(1828); ‘‘ Outlines of the Ancient His- 
tory of Medicine’’ (1831) ; ‘‘ Domestic 
Verses’’ (1843); and ‘‘ Sketches of the 
Poetical Literature of the Past Half- 
Century’? (1851). ‘‘ Works”? edited, 
with a Memoir, by Thomas Aird (1852). 


Molesworth, Mrs. Mary Louisa, née 
Stewart (Ὁ. 1842), ‘‘ Carrots ;’’ ‘* Hather- 
court Rectory’’ (1878); ‘‘ Marrying and 
Giving in Marriage ᾽ (1887) ; ‘* That Girl 


Monier-Williams 


in Black’’ (1889) ; ‘‘ Neighbours’’ (1889); 
“Leona”? (1892); ‘‘ The Next-Door 
House ”’ (1893) ; ‘* Studies and Stories ἢ 
(1893) ; ‘‘ My New Home”? (1894), etc, 


Monier-Williams, Professor Sir 
Monier, D.C.L. LL.D., Ph.D. (Ὁ. 
Bombay, 1819). ‘‘ Indian Epic Poetry ’’ 
(1863) ; ‘ Indian Wisdom ;”’ ‘* Hinduism’’ 
(1877) ; ‘‘ Modern India and the Indians’”’ 
(1878) ; ‘‘ Religious Thought and Life in 
India’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Brahmanism and Hin- 
duism ’’ (1887); ‘‘ Sakuntala,’’ transla- 
tion (1887) ; ‘‘ Buddhism ”’ (1889), ete. 


Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley 
(b. London, 1689; d. London, August 
21st, 1762). ‘‘ Town Eclogues’’ (1716), 
etc. Letters first printed by Captain 
Cleland in 1763, with additional can dea 
(forged?) in 1767. ‘‘ Poetical Works”’ 
(1768) ; ‘‘ Works, including her Corre- 
spondence, Poems, and Essays, with 
Memoirs of her Life,’’ were edited b 
Dallaway in 1803, and reached a sixt 
edition in 1817. In 1836 her Letters 
and Works, with introduction by Lady 
Louisa Stewart; the third edition, in 
1861, including additions, notes, and 
a new memoir by W. Moy Thomas. 


Montgomery, Alexander (b. Hazel- 
head Castle, Ayrshire, 1540; d. 1607). 
“The Cherrie and the Slae’’ (1597); 
““The Mindes Melody’’ (1605); and 
“The Flyting Betwixt Montgomerie and 
Polwart’’ (1629). His Poems were 
pubiened with biographical notices by 

avid Irving, LL.D., in 1821. 


Montgomery, Florence (b. 1847). 
“A Very Simple Story ’’ (1867); ‘* Mis- 
understood ’? (1869); ‘‘ Thrown To- 
gether’ (1872); ‘‘ Thwarted ’’ (1874) ; 
‘“ Wild Mike and his Victim ’’ (1875) ; 
‘‘ Seaforth ”’ (1878); ‘‘ Peggy, and Other 
Tales’? (1880) ; ‘‘The Blue Veil’’ (1883) ; 
“Transformed ᾽ (1886) ; ‘‘ The Fisher- 
man’s Daughter ’’ (1889). 


Montgomery, James (b. Irvine, 
Ayrshire, November 4th, 1771; d. Shef- 
field, April 30th, 1854). ‘The Wan- 
derer of Switzerland, and Other Poems’”’ 
(1806); ‘‘ The West Indies, and Other 
Poems’? (1810) ; ‘‘ Prison Amusements ;”’ 
“ΤῊ World before the Flood’’ (1813) ; 
‘*Thoughts on Wheels”’ (1817); ‘‘ The 
Climbing Boy’s Soliloquy ;”’ ‘‘ Green- 
land ”’ (1819) ; ‘‘Songs of Zion ”’ (1822) ; 
“‘The Christian Poet’? (1825); ‘‘ The 
Pelican Island ’’ (1827) ; ‘‘ Lectures on 
Poetry and General Literature ”’ (1833) ; 
““A Poet’s Portfolio’ (1835); ‘‘ The 
Christian Psalmist’? (1852) ; and ‘‘ Ori- 
ginal Hymns for Public, Private, and 


1392 


Moore 


— 


Social Devotion’ (1853). His Life 
has been written by J. W. King (1858), 
and his ‘‘ Memoirs, including Selections 
from his Correspondence, Remains in 
Prose and Verse, and Conversations on 
Various Subjects,’’ were published by 
John Holland and James Everett in 
1854-56. See also his ‘‘ Life and Times”’ 
by Ellis (1864). For Criticism, see 
Gilfillan’s ‘‘Literary Portraits,’’ Jeffrey’s 
‘*Essays,’’ and ‘‘ Critical Essays”’ ‘by 


As KH: B 


Moore, Frank Frankfort (b. Lim- 
erick, 1855). ‘‘'Told by the Sea ”’ (1877) ; 
‘* Daireen " (1879); “41 Forbid the 
Banns ”’ (1893); ‘‘ A Gray Eye or So”’ 
(1893) ; ‘‘ One Fair Daughter’? (1894) ; 
‘** A Journalist’s Notebook ’’ (1895), ete. ; 
“The Secret of the Court’ (1895) ; 
“The Sale of a Soul” (1895); ‘* They 
call it Love ’’ (1895), ete. 


Moore, George. ‘‘ Flowers of Pas- 
sion ’’ (1878) ; ‘‘ Pagan Poems” (1881) ; 
‘* A Modern Lover ’’ (1883) ; “Α Mum- 
mer’s Wife ;’’ ‘‘A Drama in Muslin ”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Parnell and His Island ”’ 
t1887) ; ‘‘A Mere Accident’? (1887) ; 
“Spring Days’’ (1888); ‘* Confessions 
of a Young Man’’ (1888); ‘Mike 
Fletcher’’ (1889) ; ‘‘ Impressions and 
Opinions ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Vain Fortune” 
(1892); ‘‘ The Strike at Arlingford ”’ 
(1893); ‘‘ Modern Painting’’ (1893) ; 
“ Esther Waters ’’ (1894) ; ‘‘ Celibates”’ 
(1895). 

Moore, Thomas (b. Dublin, May 
28th, 1779; d. Sloperton Cottage, near 
Devizes, February 26th, 1852). ‘‘ Ode to 
Nothing; ”’ ‘‘Odes of Anacreon”’ (1800) ; 
** Poetical Works of the late Thomas 
Little’? (1801) ; ‘‘Odes and Epistles ”’ 
(1806) ; ‘‘ Intolerance and Corruption ”’ 
(1808) ; ‘‘ The Sceptic’’ (1809); ‘* M.P.; 
or, the Blue Stocking ᾿ (1811) ; ‘‘ Inter- 
cepted Letters ; or, the Twopenny Post- 
bag ᾽᾽ (1811) ; ‘‘ National Airs ”’ ete ‘ 
ἐς ΤῊ World at Westminster’’ (1816) ; 
“Sacred Songs’’ (1816) ; ‘‘ Lalla Rookh”’ 
(1817) ; ‘‘ The Fudge Family in Paris;”’ 
“Tom Crib: His Memorial to Congress’’ 
(1819) ; ‘‘ Rhymes for the Road ’’ (1820); 
‘* Fables for the Holy Alliance’’ (1820) ; 
‘* Loves of the Angels’’ (1823) ; ‘‘ Memoirs 
of Captain Rock’’ (1824); ‘‘ Life of R, 
B. Sheridan’? (1825); ‘‘ History of 
Treland ’’ (1827) ; ‘‘ Travels of an Irish 
Gentleman in Search of a Religion ”’ 
(1827); ‘‘The Epicurean’ (1827) ; 
“* Odes upon Cash, Corn, and Catholics’? 
(1828); ‘* Life of Byron ”’ (1830); “‘ Life of 
Lord Edward Fitzgerald ’’ (1831) ; ‘‘Alci- 
phron ”’ (1839) ; and some miscellaneous 


More 


1393 


More 


‘ Proseand Verse.’’ (1878). See ‘‘ Moore’s 
hitherto Uncollected Writings’’ (1877). 
For Biography, see Earl Russell’s edition 
of the ‘“‘Diary’’ (1852-56), and the 
“TLife’’ by R. H. Montgomery (1850). For 
Criticism, see Hazlitt’s ‘‘ English Poets ”’ 
and ‘Spirit of the Age,” Jeffrey’s 
‘* Essays,’”? W. C. Roscoe’s “" Essays,”’’ 
and W. M. Rossetti’s introduction to 
the Poems. 


More, Hannah (b. Stapleton, Feb- 
ruary 2nd, 1745; d. Clifton, September 
7th, 1833). ‘*The Search after Hap- 
piness’’ (1773) ; ‘‘ The Inflexib!e Captive”’ 
(1774) ; ‘‘ Percy”? (1777); ‘‘ The Fatal 
Falsehood’’ (1779) ; ‘‘ Sacred Dramas’”’ 
(180) ; ‘Florio: a Tale for Fine 
Gentlemen and Fine Ladies’’ (1786) ; 
“The Bas Bleu; or, Conversation ”’ 
(1786) ; ‘* Thoughts on the Importance 
of the Manners of the Great to General 
Society ’’ (1783) ; ‘‘ An Estimate of the 
Religion of the Fashionable World”’ 
(1790) 3) S" Village ‘Politics’ {1798}: 
“The Modern System of Female Educa- 
tion’? (1799); ‘*Coelebs in Search of a 
Wate’? (1809)); “* Practical Piety: 2? 
(1811); ““ Christian Moyrals’’ (1818) ; 
‘““Stories for the Middle -Ranks of 
Society ’’ (1818); ‘‘ Tales for the Common 
People’’ (1818); ‘‘ Moral Sketches of 
Prevailing Opinions and Manners ”’ 
(1819); ‘* Bible Rhymes’’ (1821); and 
many other works. Her ‘‘ Poetical 
Works”’ appeared in 1829. Her complete 
works were published in eleven volumes 
in 1830, and again, with Memoir and 
Notes, in 1853. Her Life has been 
written by Shaw (1802), Roberts (1834), 
Thompson (1838), and Smith (1844). 
See “Letters to Zachary Macaulay ’’ 
(1860). 


More, Honry (Ὁ. Grantham, October 
12th, 1614; d. September Ist, 1687). 
“*Psychodia’’ (1642) ; ‘* Philosophical 
Poems” (1647); ‘‘ Philosophical Writ- 
ings,’’ containing ‘‘ An Antidote against 
Atheism,’? ὁ Enthusiasmus Triumph- 
atus,’’ ‘‘ Letters to Des Cartes,’’ ‘‘ Im- 
mortality of the Soul,’”’ ‘‘ Conjectura 
Cabalistica ’’ (1662); ““ Theological 
Works,’’ containing ‘‘ An Explanation 
of the Grand Mystery of Godliness,”’ 
‘An Inquiry into the Mystery of 
Iniquity,’’? “ΓΑ Prophetical Exposition 
of the Seven Churches in Asia,’? ‘‘A 
Discourse of the Grounds of Faith in 
Points of Religion,’? ‘‘An Antidote 
against Idolatry,’’ and ‘‘Some Divine 
Hymns ”’ (1708) ; ‘‘ Divine Dialogues,’’ 
containing ‘‘ Disquisitions concerning 
the Attributes and Providence of God”’ 


88 


(1743), ““ Discourses on Several Texts of 
Scripture ’’ (1692), ‘‘Enchiridion Ethi- 
cum ”’ (1668), and ‘‘ Enchiridion Meta- 
physicum’’ (1671). The Life of More 
was published by R. Ward in 1710. 
See Tulloch’s ‘‘ Rational Theology and 
Christian Philosophy in the XVIIth 
Century,’”’ and Vaughan’s ‘‘ Half-hours 
with the Mystics.’’ 


More, Sir Thomas (b. London, 1478; 
d. London, July 6th, 1535). ‘‘The 
Sergeant and the Frere;’’ ‘‘Utopia”’ (in 
Latin, first ed. 1516); ‘The Supplycacyon 
of Soulys against the Supplycacyon of 
Beggars; ”’ ‘A Dyalogue of Sye'thomas 
More, Knyghte, wherein he treatyd 
divers matters, as of the Veneration and 
Worshyp of Ymages and Relyques, 
praying to Sayntys, and goyng on Pyl- 
grymage, wyth many othere thyngs 
touchying the pestylent Sect of Luther 
and ‘Tyndale, by the tone bygone in 
Saxony, and by the tother labour’d to 
be brought into England ”’ (1529); ‘*The 
Confutacyon of Tyndale’s Answere’’ 
(1532) ; ‘* The Second Parte’’ of ditto 
(1533) ; ‘‘ The Debellacyon of Salem and 
Bizance’’ (1533); “6 Apologye of 
Syr Thomas More, Knyghte’’ (1533) ; 
“Α Letter Impugnynge the erronyouse 
wrytyng of John Fryth against the 
Blessed Sacrament of the Aultare ”’ 
(1533) ; ‘‘ The Answer to the First Part 
of the Poysoned Booke whyche a name- 
less Heretike (John Frith) hath named 
the Supper of the Lord” (1534); 
“Utopia: written in Latine, by Syr 
Thomas More, Knyghte, and translated 
into Englishe by Raphe Robynson’’ 
(1551) ; ‘* A Dialogue of Comfort against 
Tribulation’? (1553); ‘‘ A Treatise to 
receave the Blessed Body of our Lord 
Sacramentally and Virtually both”’ 
(1572) ; “ΒΘ Historie of the pittiful 
Life and unfortunate Death of King 
Edward V. and the Duke of York, his 
brother, with the ‘Troublesome and 
Tyrannical Government of the Usurp- 
ation of Richard III. and his Miserable 
End;’’ and ‘‘The Book of the Fayre 
Gentlewoman, Lady Fortune.’’ The 
English works of Sir Thomas More were 
published in 1557, the Latin works in 
1565 and 1566. The following are the 
Biographical Authorities:—‘‘ The Life 
and Death of Sir Thomas More,”’ by his 
grandson, Cresacre More (1626); ‘‘ Life,”’ 
by his son-in-law, W. Roper (third 
edition, 1626); ‘‘Tho. Mori Vita et 
Exitus,’”’ by J. Hoddesdon (1652) ; 
“Tomaso Moro, Grand Cancellario 
d’Inghilterra ’’ (1675); ‘‘ Vita Thome 


Morgan 


Mori,’ by Stapleton (1689); ‘ Life of 
Sir Thomas More,’ by Ferdinando War- 
ner (1758); ‘‘ Memoirs of Sir Thomas 
More,’’ by Cayley (1808) ; ‘Thomas 
Morus, Lord Chancelier du Royaume 
d’Angleterre ’’? (1833); ‘Life of Sir 
Thomas More,”’ by Emily Taylor (1834) ; 
‘Life of Sir Thomas More,’’ by Sir 
James Mackintosh (1844) ; ‘* The House- 
hold of SirThomas More” (1851); ‘‘ Life,’’ 
by T. E. Bridgett (1891); ‘‘ Life of Sir 
Thamas More,”’ in Wordsworth’s ‘‘ Ec- 
clesiastical Biography ;’’ Lord Camp- 
bell’s ‘‘ Lives of the Lord Chancellors.”’ 
Facsimile of first edition of ‘* Utopia,’’ 
by Arber. » 

Morgan, Lady (b. Dublin, 1783; d. 
London, April 13th, 1859). ‘‘ Poems’’ 
(1797) ; ‘* The Wild Irish Girl ’’ (1801) ; 
‘*The Novice of St. Dominick’ (1806) ; 
“The Lay of an Irish Harp” (1807) ; 
‘*Patriotic Sketches of Ireland ᾽ (1807) ; 
‘*Woman ; or, Ida of Athens’’ (1809) ; 
“St. Clair’? (1810); “ The Missionary ”’ 
(1811) ; ‘*O’Donnell”’ (1814) ; ‘* France 
in 1816” (1817); ‘Florence MacCarthy”’ 
(1818); ‘‘ Life and Times of Salvator 
Rosa’’ (1824) ; ‘‘ Absenteeism’? (1825) ; 
“The O’Brians and the O’Flahertys”’ 
(1827) ; ‘*The Book of the Boudoir”’ 
(1829) ; ‘‘ France in 1829-30’ (1830) ; 
‘Dramatic Scenes from Real Life”’ 
(1839); ‘*The  Priiicess’’ (1835) ; 
‘*Woman and Her Master’’ (1840) ; 
“‘The Book without a Name”’ (in con- 


junction with her husband, Sir T. C.. 


organ, M.D., 1841); ‘‘ Luxima, the 
Prophetess’’ (1859); and ‘ Passages 
from my Autobiography’’ (1859). See 
W. J. Fitzpatrick’s ‘‘ Lady Morgan” 
(1860). 

Morison, J. Cotter (Ὁ. 1831; ἃ. 
1888). ‘‘ Life and Times of St. Ber- 
nard’’ (1868); ‘‘Irish Grievances Shortly 
Stated”? (1868); ‘‘ Gibbon” (i878); 
“ Macaulay ᾽ (1882) ; ‘‘ The Service of 
Man”? (1887). 

Morley, Henry (b. London, 1822; 
ἃ. May ldth, 1894). ‘‘ Sunrise in Italy, 
and Other Poems’’ (1848) ; ‘‘ How to 
inake Home Unhealthy’’ (1850); “A 
Defence of Ignorance’? (1851); the 
Lives of Palissy the Potter (1852), Je- 
rome Cardan (1854), Cornelius Agrippa 
(1856), and Clement Marot (1870); 
‘“Memoirs of Bartholomew Fair”? (1857) ; 
‘Fairy Tales’? (1859, 1860, 1881) ; 
“‘English Writers’? (1864-67) ; begun 
again in 1887, and continued to the 
eleventh volume (1895); ‘‘ Journal of 
a London Playgoer’’ (1866); ‘*Tables 
of English Literature ’’ (1870); ‘A 


1394 


Morris 


First Sketch of English Literature” 
1873) ; ““ English Literature in the 

eign of Victoria’? (1881); ‘ Early 
Papers and Some Memories” (1891). 
Edited ‘‘ King and Commons’’ (1868), 
‘““The Spectator’’ (1868), ‘* Cassell’s 
Library of English Literature,’ ‘Cas- 
sell’s National Library,’’ ‘‘The Caris- 
brooke Library,” ‘‘ Morley’s Universal 
Library,” ‘‘ Lubbock’s Hundred Books,”’ 
ete. 

Morley, Right Hon. John, LL.D. 
(Ὁ. Blackburn, 1838), ‘* Edmund Burke”’ 
(1867, Sketch 1879); ‘Critical Miscel- 
lanies’’ (1871-77); ‘‘ Voltaire’’ (1871) ; 
‘*Rousseau’’ (1873); ‘The Struggle for 
National Education’? (1873); ‘On 
Compromise ’’ (1874) ; ‘ Diderot and 
the Encycloprdists ’’ (181) ; ‘‘Cobden”’ 
Sree ; ‘On the Study of Literature” 
(1887 
016 ”’ 


; ‘‘ Aphorisms’? (1887); ‘* Wal- 
(1888) ; ‘Studies in Literature ’”’ 
(1891). Has edited The Morning Star, 
The Fortnightly Review, Pall Mall 
Gazette, and Macmillan'’s Magazine, as 
well as the English Men of Letters series, 
ete. 

Morris, Sir Lewis (b. Carmarthen, 
1833). ‘* Songs of ''wo Worlds”? (1872, 
1874, and 1875) ; *‘ The Epic of Hades ”’ 
(1876-77) ; ‘*Gwen’’ (1879); ‘* The Ode 
of Life’’ (1880); ‘Songs Unsung’’ 

1883); ‘*Gycia’’ (1886); ** A Vision of 

ints’? (i890): ““ Odatis ” (1892) ; 

‘** Love and Sleep,” ete. (1893) ; “ Songs 

Without Notes’? (1894). Works, in one 
volume (1890). 


Morris, Richard (). Southwark, 
September 8th, 1833 ; d. May 12th, 1894). 
“The Etymology of Local Names”’ 

1857) ; ‘* Historical Outlines of English 
ecidence’’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Elementary Les- 
sons in Historical English Grammar’”’ 
1874); and ‘‘A Pnmer of English 
rammar’”’ (1875) ; besides editions of 
old English works, such as ‘‘ The Pricke 
of Conscience,’’ ‘‘The Ayenbite of In- 
wit,’”’? ‘Sir Gawayne and the Green 
Knight,’’ and the like. He also editeG 
the poems of Chaucer and Spenser, ete. 


Morris, William (b. Walthamstow, 
1834). ‘*The Defence of Guenevere’”’ 
(1858) ; “ὙΠῸ Life and Death of Jason ”’ 
(1867) ; *‘ The Earthly Paradise’’ (1868- 
70) ; “ Translations from the Icelandic ’’ 
(1869); ‘The Story of Grettir the 
Strong’’ (1869); ‘‘ Love is Enough’’ 
(1872) ; ‘‘ Three Northern Love Stories ”’ 
(1875) ; ‘‘ The Story of Sigurd the Vol- 
sung and the Fall of the Niblungs”’ 
(1876) ; a translation of the ‘‘ #2neid”’ 
(1876); a translation of the ‘‘ Odyssey ”’ 


Mozley . 


1395 


Napier 


(1887); ‘‘A Dream of John Ball,” 
etc. (1888) ; ““ Signs of Change ’’ (1888) ; 
“The Roots of the Mountains’’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘A Tale of the House of the 
Wolfings’’ (1889); ‘‘News from No- 
where’”’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Poems by the Way”’ 
1891); ‘*The Story of the Glittering 
lain ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Gothic Architecture ”’ 
(1899); ‘‘Socialism, its Growth and 
Outcome,’’ with E. Belfort Bax (1893) ; 
‘*The Wood Beyond the World ᾽" (1894). 
Co-editor of the Saga Library, and 
translator of some of the Sagas. For 
Criticisms, see Stedman’s ‘ Victorian 
Poets,’’ Swinburne’s ‘“‘ Essays and Stu- 
dies,’’ Forman’s ‘‘ Living Poets,’’ Hdin- 
burgh Review (1871), Quarterly Review 
oO) Westminster Review (1868), 
Blackwood’s Magazine (1869), ete. 


Mozley, James Bowling, D.D. (Ὁ. 
Lincolnshire, 1813; d. January 4th, 
1878). ‘*The Doctrine of Predestina- 
tion’’ (1855) ; ‘*‘ The Doctrine of Bap- 
tismal Regeneration’’ (1856); ‘The 
Baptismal Controversy ᾽᾽ (1862) ; ‘‘Sub- 
scription to the Articles’? (1863) ; “ΟΠ 
Miracles ’’ (1865) ; ‘‘Sermons’’ (1876) ; 
‘*Hssays’’ (1878), ete. Letters edited 
by his sister, A. Mozley. 


Mozley, Rev. Thomas (b. Gains- 
borough, 1806; d. June 17th, 1893). 
‘* Reminiscences, chiefly of Oriel College 
and the Oxford Movement’’ (1882) ; 
‘* Reminiscences, chiefly of Towns, Vil- 
lages, and Schools”’ (1885) ; ‘‘The Word’’ 
(1889) ; ‘The Son” (1891); ‘‘ Letters 
from Rome ”’ (1891) ; ‘‘ The Creed, or a 
Philosophy ’’ (1893). 


Muller, Friedrich Max (Ὁ. Dessau, 
December 6th, 1823). ‘‘ The Rig-Veda, 
with Sayana’s Commentary ”’ (1849-74) ; 
“A Survey of Languages’ (1855) ; 
‘Essay on Comparative Mythology ”’ 
(1858) ; ‘‘ History of Sanskrit Literature”’ 
(1859); ‘*‘ Lectures on the Science of 
Language’’ (1861-64); ‘‘Chips from a 
German Workshop” (1868-70); ‘‘On 
Missions’’ (1873); ‘‘The Origin and 
Growth of Religions, as illustrated by 
the Religions of India’’ (1878) ; ‘‘ Bio- 
graphical Essays’’ (1883) ; “‘ The Science 
of Thought’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Biographies of 
Words’’ (1888); ‘* Natural Religion ”’ 
(1889) ; ‘‘ Physical Religion ’’ (1891) ; 
“ΤῊ Science of Language and its Place 
in General Education’’ (1891); ‘‘ An- 
thropological Religion ’’ (1892) ; *‘ Theo- 
sophy ’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ The Vedanta Philo- 
sophy ’’ (1894). Has also edited ‘‘ The 
Sacred Books of the East’’ (1875-85), 
ete, 


Muloch, Dinah Maria (Mrs. Craik) 
(b. Stoke-upon-Trent, 1826; d. 1888). 
‘* The Ogilvies’’ (1849) ; ‘‘ Olive ’’ (1850) ; 
““The Head of the Family”’ (1851) ; 
“‘Agatha’s Husband”’ (1852) ;. ‘‘ John 
Halifax, Gentleman’’ (1857); ‘‘A Life 
for a Life’’ (1859) ; ‘‘ Mistress and Maid’’ 
(1863) ; ‘‘ Christian’s Mistake ’’ (1865) ; 
‘* A Noble Life’’ (1866) ; ‘‘ Studies from 
Life’’ (1869); ‘‘The Woman’s King- 
dom”? (1870) ; ‘‘ Hannah ᾽" (1871) ; Poems 
in 1872; ‘‘Sermons out of Church”’ 
(1875) ; “ΒΘ Laurel Bush’’ (1877); 
‘““A Legacy’? (1878); “Απ Uusenti- 
mental Journey in Cornwall’’ (1886), 
etc. See North British Review (1858). 


Murray, David Christie (b. West 
Bromwich, April 13th, 1847). ‘‘ A Life’s 
Atonement’’ (1880) ; ‘‘Joseph’s Coat ”’ 
(1881) ; ‘‘Coals of Fire,’’ etc. (1882) ; 
“ Hearts ’’ (1883); ‘‘ By the Gate of the 
Sea’’ (1883) ; ‘Val Strange’? (1883) ; 
“The Way of the World’’ (1884) ; 
‘Rainbow Gold” (1885); ‘‘ Aunt 
Rachel’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ A Novelist’s Note- 
book” (1887) ; ‘‘ The Traveller Returns ”’ 
(1887) ; ‘Old Blazer’s Hero*’ (1887) ; 
“The Weaker Vessel’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Wild 
Dorrie”’ (1889) ; ‘‘ John Vale’s Guard- 
ian’’ (1890) ; ‘*‘ He Fell Among Thieves”’ 
(1891); ‘Only a Shadow’? (1891); 
‘“Bob Martin’s Little Girl’’ (1892) ; 
‘°A Wasted Crime’”’ (1893); ‘‘ Time’s 
Revenges” (1893) ; ‘‘ The Making of a 
Novelist’? (1893); ‘‘A Rising Star”’ 
(1894): ‘“‘In Direst Peril’? (1894) ; 
““The Investigations of John Pym”’ 
(1895) ; ** Mount Despair,’’ ete. (1895) ; 
“The Martyred Fool’’ (1895). 

Myers, Ernest James (b. Kes- 
wick, 1844), ‘‘The Puritans’ (1869) ; 
‘‘Poems’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Defence of Rome, 
and Other Poems”’ (1880) ; ‘“‘ Judgment 
of Prometheus”’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Lord Althorp ”’ 
(1890). Also translated Pindar, and 
collaborated in the translation of the 
“Thiad.”’ 


Myers, Frederic W. H. (b. Kes- 
wick, February 6th, 1843). ‘Saint 
Paul’? (1867); ‘‘Poems’’ (1870) ; 


‘‘Wordsworth”’ in the Lvglish Men 
of Letters series (1881); ‘‘ Renewal of 
Youth”? (1882); ‘‘Essays’’ (18838) ; 
‘Phantoms of the Living’’ (1886) ; 
“* Science and a Future Life ’’ (1893). 


N 


Napier, Lieut.-General Sir Wil- 
liam Francis Patrick (b. Castle- 
town, 1785; d, 1860). ‘‘ History of the 


Nash 


1396 


Nichol 


Peninsular War’’ (1828-40); ‘‘ The 
Conquest of Scinde”’ (1845) ; ‘* History 
of Sir Charles James Napier’s Adminis- 
tration of Scinde’’ (1851); ‘‘ Life and 
Opinions of General Sir Charles James 
Napier’? (1857). See Lord Aberdare’s 
“Το and Letters of Sir W. Napier”’ 
(1862). 


Nash, Thomas (b. Lowestoft, Suf- 
folk, 1567; ἃ, cirea 1600). ‘‘ Plaine 
Percevall,the Peace- Maker of England;”’ 
‘“*Martin’s Months Minde’’ (1589) ; 
‘¢ Pappe with a Hatchet ’’ (1589 ?) ; ‘* The 
Returne of the Renowned Cavaliero 
Pasquill of England’’ (1589) ; ‘‘ The Ana- 
tomie of Absurditie ’’ (1589) ; ‘‘ Pasquil’s 
Apologie’’ (1590); ‘‘ Pierce Pennilesse, 
his Suplication to the Divel’’ (1592) ; 
“Strange Newes of the Intercepting 
certaine Letters’’ (1592) ; ‘‘ Apologie of 
Pierce Pennilesse’’ (1592); ‘‘ Christ’s 
Teares over Jerusalem ’’ (1593) ; ‘* Dido ”’ 
(with Christopher Marlowe) (1594); ‘‘The 
Unfortunate Traveller’? (1594); ‘* The 
Terrors of the Night’’ (1594); ‘‘ Have 
with you to Saffron Walden ’’ (1596) ; 
‘“*Nashe’s Lenten Stuffe’’? (1599) ; 
“‘Summer’s Last Will and Testament’”’ 
(1600) ; ‘‘ The Returne of the Knight of 
the Post from Hell’’ (1606) ; and other 
works. 


Nesbit, Miss Edith, now Mrs. Hubert 
Bland (b. Kensington, August 15th, 
1858). ‘Lays and Legends ’’ (1886 and 
1892) ; ‘‘ Leaves of Life ’’ (1888) ; ‘Songs 
of Two Seasons’’ (1890); ‘‘ Something 
Wrong ”’ (1893) ; ““ Grim Tales ’’ (1893), 
ete. 

Nettleship, Professor Henry (b. 
Kettering, May 5th, 1839; d. July 10th, 
1893). ‘* Lectures and Essays on Latin 
Literature and Scholarship ’’ (1885). 


Nettleship, John T. (Ὁ. Kettering, 
February llth, 1841). ‘‘Essays on 
Robert Browning’s Poetry’? (1868) ; 
enlarged edition, 1890. 


Newman, Francis William (b. 
London, June 27th, 1805). ‘*‘ The Human 
Soul: its Sorrows and Aspirations”’ 
(1849) ; ‘‘ Phases of Faith: Passages 
from My Own Creed’’ (1850); “A 
Church of the Future’’ (1854) ; ‘‘ Theism: 
Doctrinal and Practical’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ Mis- 
cellanies: Academical and Historical ’’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ A Libyan Vocabulary ”’ (1882) ; 
“A Christian Commonwealth ᾽᾽ (1883) ; 
“‘Rebilius; or, Robinson Crusoe in 
Latin’? (1884); ‘‘Life after Death’’ 
(1886) ; ‘*‘ Reminiscences of Two Exiles 
and Two Wars’’ (1888); and many 


other works, including ‘‘The Early 
History of the late Cardinal Newman ’”’ 
(1891). 


Newman, John Henry, D.D. (b. 
London, February 21st, 1801; ἃ, August 
llth, 1890). ‘* Parochial Sermons ”’ 
(1838-44) ; ‘Sermons on Subjects of 
the Day’? (1844); ‘‘The Theory of 
Religious Belief’’ (1844) ; ‘‘ The Deve- 
lopment of Christian Doctrine ’’ (1846) ; 
‘Loss and Gain: the Story of a Con- 
vert ’’ (1848) ; ‘* The Office and Work of 
Universities’’ (1854-56);  ‘*Sermons 
Preached on Various Occasions ᾽᾽ (1857) ; 
“ Apologia pro Vita Sud”? (1864) ; ** The 
Dream of Gerontius’’ (1865) ; ‘* Poems”’ 
(1868); ‘*The Grammar of Assent ”’ 
(1870) ; and ‘* Mr. Gladstone’s ‘ Expos- 
tulation’’’ (1875). See Fortnightly 
Review for 1877, F. W. Newman’s 
‘*Early History of the late Cardinal 
Newman” (1891), Dr. Edwin Abbott’s 
“The Anglican Career of Cardinal 
Newman,’’ R. H. Hutton’s ‘‘ Cardinal 
Newman”’ (1891), ete. 


Newton, Sir Isaac (b. Woolsthorpe, 
Lincolnshire, December 25th, 1642; d. 
Kensington, March 20th, 1727). ‘‘ Prin- 
cipia Philosophie Naturalis Mathe- 
matica’’? (1687); ‘Quadrature of 
Curves’? (1700); ‘‘Opticks’’ (1704) ; 
“ Arithmetica Universalis’? (1707) ; 
“ Analysis per Quantitatum Series ”’ 
(1711) ; ‘* De Mundi Systemate”’ (1728) ; 
“Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms’’ 
(1728) ; ‘‘ Observations on the Prophecies 
of Daniel’? (1733); ‘‘The Method of 
Fluxions and Analysis by Infinite Series’’ 
(1736) ; and other works, published by 
Bishop Horsley in 1779-85, under the 
title of ‘‘Opera que extant Omnia.” 
The Life of Newton has been written by 
Fontenelle (1728), Frisi (1778), Biot 
(1822), De Morgan (1833), Whewell 
(1836), and Sir David Brewster (1853 
and 1855). His ‘‘ Correspondence with 
Professor Cotes’? appeared in 1850. 
Best edition of ‘‘ Principia,’’ 1871. 


Newton, John (b. London, July 24th, 
1725; ἃ. December 31st, 1807). ‘* Car- 
diphonia ; or, Utterance of the Heart ’’ 
(1181); ‘* Messiah: Fifty Expository 
Discourses ’’ (1786) ; and, with Cowper 
the poet, the ‘‘ Olney Hymns.”’ 


Nichol, Professor John, LL.D. (b. 
Montrose, September 8th, 1833; ἃ. 
October 11th, 1894). ‘‘ Fragments of 
Criticism ’’ (1860) ; ‘‘ Hannibal ’’ (1873) ; 
“* Byron” (1880) ; ‘‘ Death of Themisto- 
cles, and Other Poems’? (1881) ; ‘‘ Robert 
Burns ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ American Literature ἢ 


Nichols 


1397 


O’Connor 


(1882) ; ‘‘ Francis Bacon, his Life and 
Philosophy ’’ (1888-9) ; ‘‘ Thomas Car- 
lyle’’ (1892), ete. 


Nichols, John (b. Islington, Feb- 
ruary 2nd, 1745; d. November 26th, 
1826). ‘‘ Brief Memoirs of Mr. Bowyer ἢ 
(1778) ; ‘* Biographical Anecdotes of 
William Hogarth’ (1781) ; ‘* Anecdotes 
of Bowyer and many of his Literary 
Friends ”’ (1782) ; ‘‘ The Progresses and 
Public Processions of Queen Elizabeth ’’ 
(1788-1807) ; ‘‘ The History and Anti- 
quities of the Town and County of 
Leicester’? (1795-1815) ; ‘* Literary 
Anecdotes of the Highteenth Century ’”’ 
(1812-15) ; ‘‘ Mlustrations of the Literary 
History of the Eighteenth Century ”’ 
(1817-58) ; ‘‘ Progresses, Processions, and 
Magnificent Festivities of King James 
the First, etc.’’? (1828) ; editions of the 
Letters of Sir Richard Steele and Bishop 
Atterbury; ‘‘ The Bibliotheca Topo- 
graphica Britannica’’ (1789-1800) ; and 
other works. 

Nicelas, Siz Nicholas Harris (Ὁ. 
Cornwall, March 10th, 1799; d. near 
Boulogne, August 3rd, 1848). ‘* Life of 
William Davison’? (1823); ‘ Notitia 
Historica ’’ (1824) ; ‘‘ A Synopsis of the 
Peerage of England” -(1825) ; ‘‘ Testa- 
menta Vetusta’’ (1826); ‘‘ History of 
the Town and School of Rugby ”’ (1827) ; 
“Lives of Izaak Walton and Charles 
Cotton ”’ (1837) ; ‘‘ History of the Orders 
of Knighthood of the British Empire ᾽ἢ 
(1842); and ‘‘Life and Times of Sir 
Christopher Tlatton’’ (1847). Edited 
The Retrospective Revricw, and certain of 
the Aldine Poets. 


Nicoll, W. Robertson, LL.D. (b. 
Auchindoir, Aberdeenshire, October 10th, 
1851). ‘‘Life of James Macdonald ”’ 
(188y) ; ‘‘ Memoirs of Professor Elmslie,”’ 
ete. Editor of 716 Expositor, The 
British Weekly, The Bookman, and of 
several theological series. 


Norman, Herry (b. Leicester, 1858). 
‘The Real Japan’ (1891); ‘‘The 
People and Politics of the Far East”’ 
(1894). 

Norris, W. E. ‘‘ Heaps of Money”’ 
(1877); ‘*Mlle. de Mersac’’ (1880) ; 
“* Matrimony ”’ (1881) ; ‘‘ Thirlby Hall”’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ No New Thing ”’ (1885) ; “Α 
Man of His Word’’ (1885); ‘‘ Adrian 
Vidal’? (1885); ‘‘My Friend Jim”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ A Bachelor’s Blunder’’ (1886); 
‘“*Major and Minor’? (1887); ‘‘ The 
Rogue ”’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Mrs. Fenton’’ (1889); 
“Miss Shafto’’ (1889); ‘‘ The Baffled 
Conspirators’’ (1890); ‘ Marcia’’ (1890); 


| 


‘* Misadventure ’’ (1890); ‘‘Mr. Chaine’s 
Sons’? (1891); ‘‘Miss Wentworth’s 
Idea’? (1891); ‘‘Jack’s Father, οἷο. 
{1891}... ΦἬΠΗ Grace’? (sony eA 
Deplorable Affair ’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ Matthew 
Austin”? (1894) ; ‘Saint Ann’s’’ (1894); 
“Style in Fiction’? (1894) ; ‘* A Victim 
of Good Luck’”’ (1894) ; ‘‘ Billy Bellew ” 
(1895), ete. 

North, Roger (Ὁ. 1650; d. 1733). 
“Lives of the Right Hon. Francis 
North, Baron of Guildford, Sir Dudley 
North, and the Hon. and Rey. Dr. John 
North”? (1742-44) ; ‘‘ Examen; or, an 
Enquiry into the Credit and Veracity of 
a Pretended Compleat History of Eng- 
land’’ (1740); ‘‘A Discourse on the 
Study of the Laws”’ (1824) ; and ‘‘ Me- 
moirs of Musick,’”’ edited by Dr. Rim- 
bault in 1846. 


Norton, The Hon. Mrs. Caroline 
Elizabeth 5., Lady Maxwell (Ὁ. 1808; 
ἃ. June ldth, 1877). ‘‘The Dandie’s 
Rout”? (1825); ‘*The Sorrows of 
Rosalie ’’ (1829) ; ‘‘ The Undying One’”’ 


(1831); ‘‘The Coquette and Other 
Stories’’ (1834); ‘‘The Wife and 
Woman’s Reward” (1835); ‘‘The 


Dream, and Other Poems” (1840) ; 
““The Child of the Islands’’ (1845) ; 
“ Aunt Carry’s Ballads” (1847); ‘‘ The 
Martyr’’? (1849); ‘‘A Residence in 
Sierra Leone” (1849); ‘‘Tales and 
Sketches in Prose and Verse’? (1850— 
identical with ‘‘The Coquette’’) ; 
“ Stuart of Dunleath”’ (1851) ; ‘‘ English 
Laws of Custom and Marriage for 
Women of the 19th Century ”’ (1854) ; 
‘Letter to the Queen on the Marriage 
and Divorce Bill’’ (1855) ; ‘‘ The Lady 
of La Garaye’’ (1862); ‘‘ Lost and 
Saved’’ (1863); ‘‘Old Sir Douglas”’ 
(1867) ; ‘‘'The Rose of Jericho”’ (1870). 


Norton, Thomas (b. Sharpenhoe, 
Bedfordshire, 1532; d. 1584). Trans- 
lation of Calvin’s ‘‘ Institutes’? (1562) ; 
Three Acts of ‘‘ Ferrex and Porrex.”’ - 


oO 


O’Brien, William (b. 1852). ‘‘ When 
We Were Boys’’ (1890); ‘‘ Irish Ideas”’ 
(1893). 

O’Connor, Thomas Power, M.P. 
(b. Athlone, 1848). ‘Benjamin Dis- 
raeli’’ (1878); ‘‘ Lord Beaconsfield: a 
Biography”’ (1879); ‘‘Gladstone’s House 
of Commons” (1885); ‘‘The Parnell 
Movement’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Charles Stewart 
Parnell” (1891) ; ‘‘The Book of Pity 


Occam 


and of Death,’’ translation (1892) ; 
«Sketches in the House’’ (1893). 


Occam, William of (b. Ockham, 
Surrey, 1270; d. Munich, April 7th, 
1347). ‘‘Disputatio inter Clericum et 
Militem’’ (1475); ‘* Dialogorum libri 
septem adversus hereticos; et Tractatus 
de dogmatibus Johannis XXIT.’’ (1476); 
““Opus nonaginta dierum et dialogi, 
compendium errorum contra Johannem 
XXIT.”’ (1481) ; ‘*Seriptum in primum 
librum sentenciarum, in quo ati 
simul et arcium atque philosophie dog- 
mata usque ad principia resolvuntur stilo 
clarissimo facili et apto”’ (1483) ; *‘Quod- 
libeta septem’’ (1487); ‘* Tractatus 
Logics divisus in tres partes ’’ (1488) ; 
“‘Centiloquium Theologicum’’ (1494) ; 
‘‘Questiones et Decisiones in quatuor 
libros Sententiarum’’ (1495); ‘‘ Ex- 
positio aurea super totam artem Veterem, 
continens hosce tractatus’’ (1496) ; and 
“Summa totius logica:’’ (1498). Fora 
list of Occam’s other works, see Jécher’s 
“*Gelehrten Lexicon.”’ 


Occleve, Thomas (b. about 1370). 
English translation of ‘‘De Regimine 
Principum,’’ and minor pieces, printed 
by George Mason in 1796. See Warton’s 
“‘History’”’?; Ritson’s ‘‘ Bibliographia 
Poetica,’’ and Ellis’s ‘‘Specimens of the 
English Poets;”’ also Morley’s ‘‘ English 
Writers,’’ vol. vi. 


Ogilby, John (b. Edinburgh, 1600; 
d. 1676). Translations of ‘‘The Aineid’’ 
(1649) ; ‘‘ ANsop’s Fables ”’ (1651) ; ‘‘ The 
Tliad”’ (1660); and ‘‘The Odyssey ’’ 
(1661). 


Oliphant, Laurence (b. 1829; d. 
1888). “Α Journey to Katmandhu,”’’ 
“The Russian Shores of the Black Sea’”’ 
(1853) ; ““ Minnesota and the Far West”’ 
(1855) ; ‘‘ The Transcaucasian Campai 
under Omar Pasha’’ (1856); ‘‘ Earl of 
Elgin’s Mission to China and Japan in 
1857-59” (1860); ‘‘ Patriots and Fili- 
busters’’ (1861) ;‘‘ Incidents of Travel ; ’’ 
“Ὁ Piccadilly ᾽ (1870) ; ‘‘ Land of Gilead”’ 
(1881) ; ‘‘ Tracts and Travesties’’ (1882); 
“‘Altiora Peto”’ (1883); ‘‘ Sympneu- 
mata’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Episodes in a Life of 
Adventure’? (1887). Memoir by Mrs. 
Margaret Oliphant (1891). 


Oliphant, Mrs. Margaret (b. Liver- 
pool, about 1828). ‘‘Mrs. Margaret 
Maitland’’ (1849) ; ‘‘ Merkland”’ (1851); 
“Adam Graeme of Mossgray’’ (1852) ; 
“‘Harry Muir’’ (1853); ‘‘ Magdalen 
Hepburn”? (1854) ; “‘ Lilliesleaf ’’ (1855); 
**Zaidee’? (1856); ‘Katie Stewart” 


1398 


Oliphant 


(1850); ‘The Quiet Heart’’ (1856) ; 
‘* Chronicles of Carlingford ”’ oe 
‘‘Salem Chapel,’’ ‘‘ The erpe 

Curate,’’ ‘‘The Rector,’’ ‘‘Miss Mar- 
joribanks,”’ and ‘‘Phaebe Junior’’) ; 
‘*Memoirs of Edward Irving ’’ (1862) ; 
** Agnes’’ (1866); ‘‘The Brownlows’”’ 
(1868) ; ‘‘ The Minister’s Wife’? (1869) ; 
“ Historical Sketches of the Reign of 
George IT.’’ (1809); ‘‘John’’ (1870) ; 
‘‘Three Brothers’’ (1870); ‘‘A Son of 
the Soil’? (1870) ; ‘‘ Memoir of Francis 
d’Assissi’’ (1870); ‘* Squire Arden”? 


(1871); ‘Memoir of Montalembert ”’ 
(1872); ‘‘Ombra’”’ (1872); ‘At his 
Gates’? (1872); ‘‘Innocent’’ (1878) ; 


“May ’’ (1873); ‘‘A Rose in June”’ 
(1874) ; ‘For Love and Life ’’ (1874) ; 
‘* Valentine and his Brothers’ (1875) ; 
‘‘The Curate in Charge’’ (1876); ‘‘ The 
Makers of Florence ”’ (1876) ; ‘* Dante”’ 
(1877); οὐδ" (1877), ire 
Arthur ’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ Young Musgrave ”’ 
(1877) ; ‘‘ Dress ’’ (1878); ‘‘ The Prim- 
rose Path’’ (1878); ‘‘ Within the Pre- 
cincts’’ (1879); ‘‘He that Will Not 
when he May’’ (1880); ‘‘A Literary 
History of England, 1710-1825” (1882) ; 
“In Trust’? (1882); ‘‘The Ladies 
Lindores’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ It was a Lover and 
his Lass’? (1883); ‘‘ Hester’? (1884) ; 
“The Wizard’s Son’ (1884); ‘Sir 
Tom’? (1884) ; ‘‘Madam”’ (1885); ‘‘ Two 
Stories of the Seen and the Unseen’’ 
(1885) ; “Α Country Gentleman and his 
Farm” (1886); ‘‘The Son of his 
Father’? (1887); ‘‘The Makers of 
Venice ’’ (1887); ‘‘ The Second Son’’ 
ΤΩ ‘“*Memoir of John Tulloch’’ 
1888) ; ‘‘Cousin Mary”’ (1888); ‘‘Joyce”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ Lady Car’’ (1889) ; ‘‘A Poor 
Gentleman’’ (1889); ‘‘ Neighbours on 
the Green’? (1889); ‘The Duke’s 
Daughter ’’ (1890); ‘‘The Mystery of 
Mrs. Blencarrow’”’ (1890);  ‘‘ Royal 
Edinburgh ”’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Sons and Daugh- 
ters’? (1890); ‘‘Kirsteen’’ (1890) ; 
“ Jerusalem ᾽᾽ (1891); ‘‘ Janet ”’ (1891) 3 
““The Railway Man and his Chil- 
dren’’ 
Oliphant and of Alice Oliphant”’ ‘ ee 

1892) ; 


Presumptive and the Heir Apparent”’ 
(1892: ‘‘Lady William’? (1898) ; 
‘* Memoir of Thomas Chalmers”’ (1893); 
‘“*The Sorceress’’ (1893); ‘‘ The Pro- 
digals and their Inheritance ’’ (1894) ; 
“Α΄ House in Bloomsbury’’ (1894) ; 
‘“‘ Historical Characters of the Reign of 
Queen Anne” (1894). Editor of 
“ Foreign Classics for English Readers,”’ 


Opie’ 


1399 


Opie, Amelia (Ὁ. 1769; d. 1853). 
“The Dangers of Coquetry,” * The 
Father and the Daughter ’”’ (1801) ; “An 
Elegy to the Memory of the Duke of 
Bedtford’’ (1802) ; ‘‘ Adeline Mowbray ”’ 
(1804) ; ‘‘ Simple Tales’’ (1806), ete. 


Otway, Thomas (b. Trotton, Sussex, 
March 3rd, 1651; ἃ. London, April 14th, 
1635).- ““ Alcibiades ”’ (1675); ‘* Don 
Carlos”? (1675) ; ‘*Caius Marius ’”’ (1680); 
‘The Orphan”? (16380); “ Venice Pre- 
served’ (1682) ; ‘ Titus and Berenice,” 
‘Friendship in Fashion,” and ‘‘ The 
Soldier’s Fortune.’? His Works in 1813, 
with Life. 

Ouida (Louisa ce la Ramée). 
“Ariadne ;’’ ‘‘ Cecil Castlemaine’s Gage ;”” 
‘‘Chandos;” “Δ Dog of Flanders; a 
“Under Two Flags’’ (1868) ; a5 nel ie ἢ 
(1869) ; ‘‘Folle-Farine; » « Priendship; ”’ 
ὡς Feld in Bondage ;”’ “‘ Idalia”’ (1867) ; 
‘‘ Ina Winter City;’’ ‘‘ Pascarel”’ (1873); 
“Sigma;”’ “Strathmore, 5) εἰ Tricotrin ν᾽" 
“Two Little Wooden Shoes’’ (1874) ; 
‘‘Moths’’ (1880) ; ‘‘ Pipistreilo and Other 
Stories’’ (1880) ; ‘A Village Commune Be 
(1881) ; “Τὰ Maremma » and ‘‘ Bimbi’”’ 
{882}: te Wanda” and ‘‘Frescoes”’ 
(1883) ; ‘‘ Princess Napraxine’’ (1884) ; 
“ A House Party ’’ (1886) ; “" Othamar~’ 
(1887) ; ‘‘ Guilderoy »? (1889) ; ‘‘ Ruffino, 
οἷο.» (1890) ; ‘‘ Syrlin”’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Tower 
of Taddeo’’ (1890); ‘‘ Santa Barbara, 
εἰ.) (1891); ‘The New Priesthood ”’ 
{the Medical Profession] (1893) ; ‘* The 
Silver Christ,’? and ‘‘A Lemon Tree’’ 
(1894); τ Two Offenders’’ (1894) ; 
ὡς Views and Opinions”’ (1895), ete. 


Overbury, Sir Thomas (b. 1581; 
de 1613). A Witte” (1614) ; ‘* Charac- 
ters’? (1614); “* Observations on _ his 
Travels upon the State of the Seventeen 
Provinces as they stood Anno Dom. 
1609? (1626); ‘*Crumms fallen from 
King James’s Table; or, his Table- 
Talk?’ (1716). 

Owen, John, D.D. (Ὁ. 1616; d. Baling, 
August 24th, 1683). 
of Arminianism’’ (1642) ; “" Communion 
with God’ (1607); “On the Nature, 
Rise and Progress, and Study of True 
Theology ᾽ (1661) ; ‘‘ Exposition of the 
Fpistle to the Hebrews’ (1668) ; ‘‘ On 
Justification” (1677); ‘Salus Electorum, 
Sanguis Jesu; or, the Death of Death in 
the Death of Christ,” “ Diatriba de 
Divina Justitia,’ ‘ Doctrine of the 
Saints, Perseverance Explained and Con- 
firmed,”  ‘‘ Vindicize Evangelice,”’ 
ἐς Mortification of Sin by Believers,” 
“On the Divine Original, 


“The Display | 


Authority, | 


Paley 


Self-evidencing Light and Power of the 
Scriptures,”’ ‘‘ Animadversions on ‘ Fiat 
Lux,’”’ ‘Indwelling Sin,” “A Dis- 
course of the Holy Spirit,’’ ‘‘ Christo- 
logia.”” ‘‘ Works, with Life,’”? in 1826. 

Owen, Sir Richard, K.C.B. (b. 
Lancaster, July 20th, 1804; d. December 
18th, 1892). ‘«‘Qdontography’”’ (1840- 
45); ‘‘Lectures on the Invertebrate 
Animals’’ (1846) ; ‘* History of British 
Fossil Mammals and Birds”’ (1846) ; 
ἐς Parthenogenesis ’? (1849) 5 “ History 
of British Fossil Reptiles” (1849-51) ; 
ἐς Paleontology ᾽᾽ (1860) ; ‘* Lectures on 
Comparative Anatomy,” “ The Arche- 
type Skeleton,” “" Fossil Reptiles” 
(1884), ete. ‘* Life’’ by R.S. Owen (1894). 


Owen, Robert (b. Newton, Mont- 
gomeryshire, May 14th, 1771; d. 1858). 
τ New Views of Society ’’ (1812), ete. 


Owen, Robert Dale (b. New 
Lanark, 1804; d. 1877). “System of 
Education at New Lanark”’ (1824) ; 
“Moral Physiology”’ (183h); ““Ἐδτ- 
sonality of God’? and * Authenticity of 
the Bible’’ (1832) ; ες Footfalls on the 
Boundary of Another World’’ (1860) ; 
“The Debatable Land”’ (1872) ; 
“Threading My Way: an Autobio- 
graphy ” (1874), etc. 


P 
Pain, Berry Eric Odell. ‘In a 
Canadian Canoe, etc.’’ (1891) ; “* Stories 
and Interludes’’ (1892) ; “ Playthings 
and Parodies’? (1892); ‘* Graeme and 
Cyril’? (1893) ; ‘‘Kindness of the 
Celestial, οἷο." (1894). 


Paine, Thomas (b. Thetford, Nor- 
folk, January 29th, 1737 ; d. New York, 
June Sth, 1809). ‘* Common Sense ”’ 
δ) τ he American Crisis’? (1776- 
83) ; ‘The Rights of Man”? (1791-92) ; 
and ‘‘The Age of Reason’? (1792 and 
1796). His Life was written by ‘‘ Francis 
Rydys”’ (George Chalmers) (1791), 
Oldys (1791), Cheetham (1809), Rick- 
man (1814), Sherwin (1819), Richard 
Carlile (1819), Harford (1820), and 
Vale (1853). See Zhe North American 
Review, vol. lvii., and the new Life by 
Moncure D. Conway. Works, Boston, 
1856; Political Works, London, 1879. 
The third volume of an edition by Mr. 
Conway appeared in 1895. 

Paley, William (Ὁ. Peterborough, 
July, 1743; ἃ. May 25th, 1805). ** Prin- 
ciples of Moral and Political Philosophy”? 


Palgrave 


(1785) ; ‘‘ Hore Pauline’? (1790); “A 
View of the Evidences of Christianity ”’ 
(1794); ‘‘ Natural Theology ’’ (1831) ; 
“* Sermons ’’ (1808) ; ‘‘Reasons for Con- 
tentment,’? and ‘The Clergyman’s 
Companion in Visiting the Sick.’? Works 
(1815), with Life; Memoirs by G. W. 
Meadley in 1809. 

Palgrave, Sir Francis (b. London, 
July, 1788; d. Hampstead, July 6th, 
1861). ‘‘ History of the Anglo-Saxons ”’ 
(1831) ; ‘* The Rise and Progress of the 
English Commonwealth ”’ (1832) ; ** Ro- 
tuli Curiz Regis ’’ (1835) ; ‘The Ancient 
Kalendars and Inventories of His 
Majesty’s Exchequer ’’ (1836); ‘* Truths 
and Fictions of the Middle Ages: the 
Merchant and the Friar”? (1837) ; ‘* The 
History of Normandy and of England”’ 
(1851-57) ; aud other works. 


Palgrave, Professor Francis 
Turner (b. London, September 28th, 
1824). ‘‘Idylls and Songs’? (1854) ; 
“The Golden Treasury of English Songs 
and Lyrics,’’ selections (1861); ‘* Essays 
on Art’’ (1866); ‘‘Hymns”’ (1867) ; 
‘*Five Days’ Entertainments at Went- 
worth Grange’? (1868) ; ‘‘ Lyrical Poems”’ 
(1871); “Α Lyric Garland’ (1874) ; 
‘“The Treasury of Lyrical Poems’’ 
(1875); ‘* Chrysomela, a Selection from 
the Poems of Robert Herrick’’ (1877) ; 
“The Vision of England’’ (1881): ‘* The 
Golden Treasury of Sacred Song,’’ 
selections (1889); ‘‘Amenophis and 
Other Poems’’ (1892). He has also 
edited the poems of Clough (1862), 
Keats (1884), Wordsworth (1885), and 
Scott, ete. 

Palgrave, Sir Reginald Francis 
Douce, K.C.B. (b. London, June 28th, 
1829). ‘The House of Commons”’ 
(1869) ; “ΤῊ. Chairman’s Handbook ”’ 
(1877); ‘‘ Oliver Cromwell, the Pro- 
tector ’’ (1890). 


Palgrave, William Gifford (b. 
1826; d. 1888). ‘* Personal Narrative of 
a Year’s Journey through Central and 
Eastern Arabia ’’ (1862-63) ; ‘*‘ Hermann 
Agha’’ (1872); ‘‘ Essays on Eastern 
Questions ’’ (1872); ‘‘ Dutch Guiana ”’ 
(1876). Contributed much to periodical 
literature. 


Palmer, Edward Henry (b. 1840; 
d. 1882). ‘‘The Desert of the Exodus’’ 
(1871); ‘‘ History of Jerusalem ’’ (1871); 
“ Arabic Grammar’’ (1874); ‘‘ History 
of the Jewish Nation”’ (1874); ‘‘ Persian- 
English Dictionary ’’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Poems of 
Beha-ed-din Zoheir’’ (1876-77) ; 
roun Alraschid’”’ (1880); ‘‘ Koran ”’ 


1400 


Pater 


(1880). Was also for some time a 
journalist. 


Parker, Gilbert (b. Canada, 1862). 
‘** Pierre and his People ’’ (1892) ; ‘* Mrs. 
Falchion ’’ (1893); ‘* The Translation of 
a Savage’’ (1894); “ὙΠΟ Trail of the 
Sword”? (1895) ; ‘* When Valmond came 
to Pontiac ”’ (1895). 

Parker, Rev. Joseph, D.D. (b. 
Hexham, April 9th, 1890). ‘ Church 
Questions’? (1862); ‘‘Ecce Deus;’”’ 
“ Ad Cleram ”’ (1870) ; ‘‘ The Paraclete ”’ 
(1874); ‘The Priesthood of Christ” 
(1876) ; ‘* Tyne Childe,’’ autobiography 
(1880); ‘‘ Weaver Stephen ’’ (1886) ; 
*'The People’s Family Prayer-book ”’ 
(1889); *‘ Some One’’ (1893); ‘* None 
Like It’’ (1893) 5 ‘‘ Well Begun ”’ (1893) ; 
‘*The People’s Bible,’’ ete. 


Parnell, Thomas (b. Dublin, 1679; 
ἃ. Chester, July, 1717). ‘‘ The Life of 
Zoilus,”’ etc. Poems, with miscellaneous 
Prose Works, and Life by Goldsmith 
(1778). 

Parr, Samuel, LL.D. (b. Harrow, 
January 15th, 1747; ἃ. March Gth, 1825). 
‘*Prefatio ad Bellendenum de Statu 
Prisci Orbis’? (1788); ‘‘ Letter from 
Irenopolis to the Inhabitants of Eleu- 
theropolis’’ (1792) ; ‘* Characters of the 
Late Right Honourable Charles James 
Fox, selected and in part written by 
Philopatris Varvicencis’’ (1809), ete. 
“Aphorisms, Opinions, and Reflections 
of the late Dr. 8. Parr’’ were published 
in 1826; ‘* Bibliotheca Parriana: a Cata- 
logue of the Library of the Rev. Samuel 
Parr, LL.D.,’’ in 1827; ‘‘ Parriana; or, 
Notices of the Rey. Samuel Parr, LL.D., 
collected and in part written by E. H. 
Barker, Esq.,’’ in 1828-29; and ‘‘ Me- 
moirs of the Rev. Samuel Parr, LL.D.,’’ 
by the Rey. William Field, in 1828. In 
the same year appeared an edition of his 
Works, ‘‘ with Memoirs of his Life and 
Writings, and a selection from his Cor- 
respondence, by John Johnstone, M,D.”’ 


Parry, Charles Hubert Hastings, 
Mus.D. (b. Bournemouth, February 
27th, 1848). ‘‘ History and Develop- 
ment of Mediwval and Modern Euro- 
pean Music ”’ (1877) ; ‘* Studies of Great 
Composers’? (1886); ‘‘ The Art of 
Music ”’ (1893). 

Pater, Walter H. (Ὁ. August 4th, 
1839; ἃ. July 30th, 1894). ‘‘ Studies 
in the History of the Renaissance ”’ 
(1873) ; ‘The Renaissance’? (1875) ; 
‘‘ Marius the Epicurean ᾽ (1885); ‘‘ Im- 
aginary Portraits’? (1887); ‘‘ Appre- 
ciations’’? (1889); ‘‘Plato and Platon- 


Patmore 


1401 


Pepys 


ism ’’ (1893) ; ‘‘ An Imaginary Portrait "ἢ 
(1894) ; ‘‘ Greek Studies ”’ (1895). 


Patmore, Coventry Kearsay 
Dighton (b. Woodford, Essex, J uly 
2nd, 1823). ‘* Poems’’ (1844), with ad- 
ditions in 1853, under the title of ‘‘Tam- 
erton Church Tower, and Other Poems;”’ 
““The Angel in the House,’’ in four 
parts—‘‘ The Betrothal’’ (1854), ‘‘ The 
Espousal’’ (1856), ‘‘ Faithful for Ever ”’ 
(1860), and ‘‘ The Victories of Love”’ 
(1862) ; besides ‘‘ The Unknown Eros ἢ 
(1877) ; ‘‘Principle in Art’? (1889) ; 
“ Religio Poet’? (1893); ‘‘The Rod, 
the Root, and the Flower’’ (1895). A 
selection from his poems has been pub- 
lished by Richard Garnett, entitled 
‘* Florilegium Amantis”’ (1879). 


Pattison, Rev. Mark (b. Hornby, 
Yorks., 1813; d. July 30th, 1884). ‘Isaac 
Casaubon ’’ (1875) ; ‘‘ Milton ’’ (1879) ; 
‘Sermons’? (1885) ; ‘‘ Essays,’’ collected 
by H. Nettleship (1889). Edited Works 
of Milton and Pope. ‘‘Memoirs,”’ edited 
by Mrs. Pattison, now Lady . Dilke 
(1885). Recollections by T. F. Althaus 
and by Hon. L. A. Tollemache. 


Payn, James (Ὁ. 1830). ‘‘ Lost 
Sir Massingberd’’ (1864); ‘‘ A County 
Family ’’ (1869) ; ‘‘ A Perfect Treasure ”’ 
(1869); ‘‘ Like Father, Like Son”’ (1870); 
ἐν At Her Mercy ”’ (1874) ; ‘‘ Less Black 
than we’re Painted’’ (1878); ‘By 
Proxy ”’ (1878) ; ‘‘ What He Cost Her ’”’ 
(1878) ; ‘*‘ High Spirits’ (1879) ; ‘* Under 
One Roof’ (1879); ‘‘ Two Hundred 
Pounds Reward ᾽ (1880); ‘‘ A Confi- 
dential Agent’’ (1880) ; ‘‘ A Grape from 
a Thorn’’ (1881); “For Cash Only ”’ 
(1882) ; ‘‘ Some Private Views ”’ (1882) ; 
“ Literary Recollections ”’ (1884) ; ‘‘ The 
Luck of the Darrells ’’ (1885) ; ““ Glow- 
Worm Tales ’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Holiday Tasks”’ 
(1887); ‘‘A Prince of the Blood”’ 
(1888) ; ‘‘ The Eavesdropper’’ (1888) ; 
‘““The Mystery of Mirbridge’’ (1888) ; 
“The Burnt Million’’ (1890); ‘‘ Notes 
from the News’ (1890); “ΠΟ Word 
and the Will”’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Sunny Stories, 
and Some Shady Ones’’ (1891); “A 
Modern Dick Whittington’’ (1892) ; “Α 
Stumble on the Threshold ”’ (1892) ; “Α 
Trying Patient’’ (1893); ‘‘Gleams of 
Memory ’’ (1894) ; ‘‘In Market Overt ”’ 
(1895). 

Payne-Smith, Robert, D.D., Dean 
of Canterbury (b. Gloucestershire, 1818 ; 
ἃ. March 3150, 1895). ‘* Prophecy as 
a Preparation for Christ’? (1869) ; 
“* Daniel ’’ (1886), etc. 


Peacock, Thomas Love (b. Wey- 


mouth, 1785; d. 1866). ‘‘ Headlong 
Hall (1815); ‘‘ Melin Court’’ (1817) ; 
“*Rhododaphne ”’ (1818); ‘‘ Nightmare 
Abbey ”’ (1818); ‘‘ Maid Marian”’ (1822) ; 
““The Misfortunes of Elphin’’ (1829) ; 
“Crotchet Castle’? (1831); ‘‘ Gryll 
Grange ”’ (1860). 

Pearse, Rev. Mark Guy (b. Cran- 
borne, 1842). ‘‘ Mister Horn and His 
Friends ”’ (1872); ‘‘John Tregenoweth ”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘ Daniel Quorm and His Re- 
ligious Notions’? (1875); ‘‘ Homely 
Talks ”’ (1880) ; ‘‘ Simon Jasper’? (1883) ; 
“Thoughts on Holiness’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Corn- 
ish Stories ’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Some Aspects of 
the Blessed Life ’’ (1886): ‘‘ The Chris- 
tianity of Jesus Christ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Short 
Talks for the Times’ (1889); ‘‘ Jesus 
Christ and the People ’’ (1891); ‘‘ Elijah 
the Man of God”’ (1891); ‘‘ Naaman 
the Syrian ’’ (1893); ‘‘ The Gospel for 
the Day’ (1893) ; ‘* Moses ’’ (1894), ete. 

Pearson, Charles Henry (b. Isling- 
ton, 1830; ἃ. 1894). ‘‘The Early and 
Middle Ages of England’’ (1861) ; 
“ History of England During the Early 
and Middle Ages’’ (1867); ‘‘ National 
Life and Character”’ (1893). 

Peele, George (Ὁ. 1552; ἃ. 1598 *). 
‘“‘The Arraignment of Paris’’ (1584) ; 
““The Device of the Pageant ’’ (1585) ; 
“An Kelogue Gratulatorie’’ (1589) ; 
“CA Farewell’’ (1589) :. ‘‘ Polyhymnia ”’ 
(1590) ; ‘‘Descensus Astraese’’ (1591) ; 
“The Hunting of Cupid’’ (1591); 
‘«King Edward the First’’’ (1593); ‘‘’‘The 
Honour of the Garter’? (1593); ‘‘ The 
Battle of Alcazar’’ (1594); ‘‘The Old 
Wives’ Tale’? (1595); ‘‘The Love of 
King David and Fair Bethsabe”’ (1599); 
‘Historie of Two Valiant Knights”’ 
(1599); ‘‘ Merrie Conceited Jests”’ 
(1627); ‘The Turkish Mahomet and 
Hyren the Faire Greek.’”’ ‘‘ Life” by 
Dyce, prefixed to Works, in 1828. 

Pemberton, Max (b. Birmingham, 
1863). ‘The Diary of a Scoundrel”’ 
(1891); ‘*The Iron Pirate’ (1893) ; 
“Jewel Mysteries I have Known’ (1894); 
‘The Sea Wolves’’ (1894); ‘‘ The Im- 
pregnable City ’’ (1808); “ὙΠῸ Little 
Huguenot ᾽ (1895). 

Pepys, Samuel (b. Brampton, Hunt- 
ingdonshire, February 23rd, 1633; d. 
May 26th, 1703). ‘‘ Memoirs relating to 
the State of the Royal Navy of Eng- 
land”’ (1690). ‘‘ Diary ’’ edited by Lord 
Braybrooke in 1825; another edition, 
1879. The ‘“ Life, Journals, and Corre- 
spondence”? of Pepys published in 1841 ; 
new and enlarged edition, with notes by 
Henry B. Wheatley, in progress (1895). 


Percy 


Percy, Thomas, Bishop of Dromore 
(b. Bridgnorth, Shropshire, April 13th, 
1728; d. Dromore, Ireland, September 
30th, 1811). ‘* Reliques of Ancient Eng- 
lish Poetry ’’ (1765); ‘‘ Five Pieces of 
Runic Poetry, translated ᾽ (1763) ; ‘‘ The 
Songs of Solomon, translated, with a 
Commentary”? (1764); translation of 
Mallet’s ‘‘ Northern Antiquities’ (1770); 
“The Hermit of Warkworth” (1771); 
“‘A Key to the New Testament”? (1779); 
and ‘An Essay on the Origin of the 
English Stage’ (1798). The “ Reliques’’ 
were edited by Hales and Furnivall in 
1868. 

Philips, Ambrose (b. Leicestershire, 
1671; ἃ, London, June 8th, 1749). ‘* Pas- 
torals ’’ (1708); “Α Poetical Letter from 
Copenhagen ”’ (1709); ‘‘ Persian Tales ”’ 
(1709) ; ‘‘ The Distrest Mother ’’ (1712) ; 
“The Briton” (1722); ‘* Humphrey, 
Duke of Gloucester’? (1722), and 
‘“‘Poems’”’ (1748). Edited The Free- 
thinker. ‘‘ Life’? by Dr. Johnson. 

Philips, Francis Charles (Ὁ. 1849). 
“As ina Looking-Glass”’ (1885); ‘‘ Jack 
and Three Jills’? (1886); ‘‘A Lucky 
Young Woman”? (1886); ‘‘ Social Vicis- 
situdes ᾽ (1886); ** The Dean and his 
Daughter ’’ (1887); ‘‘ Strange Adven- 
tures of Lucy Smith’ (1887); ‘‘ Little 
Mrs. Murray” (1888); ‘‘ Young Mr. 
Ainslie’s Courtship ᾽ (1889) ; “Α French 
Marriage’’ (1890); ‘‘ Extenuating Cir- 
cumstances’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ Madame Valérie”’ 
(1892); ‘Constance’? (1893); 
Never Knows’ (1893); ‘‘ Mrs. Bou- 
verie’’ (1894); “Α Doctor in Difficulties ”’ 
(1894); ** The Worst Woman in London”’ 
(1895); ‘‘ A Question of Taste’? (1895) ; 
also works in collaboration. 


Pinero, Arthur Wing (b. London, 


1855). ‘‘The Plays of A. W. Pinero,”’ 
begun 1891. : 
Pinkerton, John (b. Edinburgh, 


February 17th, 1758; ἃ. Paris, March 
10th, 1826). ‘‘ Scottish Tragic Ballads ”’ 
(1781); ‘‘ Essay on Medals’ (1782); 
‘* Rimes ᾽ (1782); ‘‘Select Scottish Bal- 
lads’ (1783); ‘‘ Letters on Literature ”’ 
(1785); ‘‘ Ancient Scottish Poems”? (1786); 
‘* A Dissertation on the Origin and Pro- 
gress of the Scythians or Goths’ (1787) ; 
“Vita Antique Sanctorum,” ete. (1789) ; 
“An Inquiry into the History of Scot- 
land’’ (1789); ‘‘ The Medallic History of 
England to the Revolution’ (1790) ; 
“Scottish Poems’? (1792); ‘‘ Observa- 
tions on the Antiquities, etc., of Western 
Scotland”? (1793); ‘* Ichonographia 
Scotica’’? (1797); ‘‘The History of 
Scotland from the Accession of the 


1402 


Pope 


— 


House of Stuart to that of Mary” 
(1797); ‘* The Scottish Gallery ᾽᾽ (1799) ; 
‘** Walpoliana;’’ ‘* Modern Geography ;”” 
“Recollections of Paris;’’ ‘‘ Petralogy;”’ 
an edition of Barbour’s ‘‘ Bruce; and 
other works. ‘‘ Literary Correspond- 
ence”? (1830). 


Planché, James Robinson (b. 1796; 
ἃ. 1880). ‘‘Lays and Legends of the 
Rhine’”’ (1826-27); ‘‘ Descent of the 
Danube from Ratisbon to Vienna’’ 
(1828); ‘‘ History of British Costume ἢ 
(1834); ‘‘ Regal Records: Coronation of 
Queens ”’ (1888) ; “Souvenir of the Bal 
Costumé”’? (1842); ‘‘ Pursuivant at 
Arms; or, Heraldry Founded upon 
Facts”’ (1851); ‘‘ Corner of Kent; or, 
some Account of the Parish of Ash-next- 
Sandwich ”’ (1864). 

Plumptre, Edward Hayes, D.D., 
Dean of Wells (b. August 6th, 1821; ἃ, 
February Ist, 1891). ‘‘ Things Old and 
New’ (1844); ‘Sermons at King’s 
College’? (1859); ‘* Lazarus and Other 
Poems”’ (1864); ‘‘ Master and Scholar ᾽ἢ 
(1866); ‘** Christ and Christendom” 
(1867) ; “ὙΠΟ Spirits in Prison ’’ (1884) ; 
“The Commedia and Canzonniere of 
Dante’’ (1886); ‘‘Life of Thomas Ken”’ 
(1888). Translated Sophocles (1866) 
and /Eschylus (1870); a leading contri- 
butor to Bishop Ellicott’s ‘‘Old and New 
Testament Commentaries for English 
Readers.”’ 

Pollock, Professor Sir Frederick, 
Bart. (Ὁ. December 10th, 1845). ‘*Spin- 
oza, his Life and Philosophy ’’ (1880) ; 
‘* Essays in Jurisprudence and Ethics ”’ 
(1882); ‘‘The Land Laws’’ (18838) ; 
‘* An Introduction to the History of the 
Science of Politics’’ (1890); ‘* Oxford 
Lectures and Other Discourses ”’ (1890) ; 
‘* History of English Law before the 
Time of Edward 1.’’ (1895), ete. Editor 
of the Law Reports. 


Pope, Alexander (b. London, May 
21st, 1688; ἃ. Twickenham, May 30th, 
1744). ‘‘ Pastorals’’ (1709); ‘‘ An Essay 
on Criticism’ (1711); ‘‘ The Rape of the 
Lock’? (1711 and 1714) ; ‘‘ The Messiah”’ 
(1712). ‘‘ The Temple of Fame”? (1712) ; 
‘Prologue to Cato’’ (1713); ‘‘ Windsor 
Forest’? (1713); ‘‘ Ode for St. Cecilia’s 
Day ’’ (1713) ; ‘‘ Narrative of Dr. Robert 
Norris, concerning the Strange and De- 
plorable Frenzy of J. 1). (John Dennis) ’’ 
(1713); ‘‘ Elegy to the Memory of an 
Unfortunate Lady’ (1717); ‘‘ Epistle 
from Eloisa to Abelard’’ (1717); ‘‘ Three 
Hours After Marriage ;”’ translation 
of the ‘Iliad’ (1715-20); edition of 
Shakespeare (1725); translation of the 


Porson 


1403 


Priestley 


ἐς Odyssey ’’ (1725-26); ‘‘ Letters to 
Cromwell’? (1726); ‘‘Treatise on the 
Bathos”’ (1727); “ὙΠΟ Dunciad”’ (1728); 
contributions to The Grub Street Journal 
(1780-37) ; ‘‘ Epistle on Taste’’ (1731) ; 
‘* Essay on Man” (1732-34); ‘* Moral 
Essays’? (1732-35); ‘‘ Epistle to Ar- 
buthnot’’ (1735); ‘‘ Correspondence ἢ 
(1735 and 1736) ; ‘‘ Imitations of Horace ἢ 
1733-4-7); ‘‘ Epilogue to the Satires ”’ 
C738): “The New Dunciad” (1742- 
43). Best edition of Works, Elwin’s. 
See also the editions by A. W. Ward 
1869), Mark Pattison (1869), Cowden 
larke (1873), and Rossetti (1873), with 
biographies; ‘‘Concordance to Pope’s 
Works,”’ by Abbot (1875); and ‘‘ Pope”’ 
(1880). For Criticism, see Johnson's 
‘*Lives of the Poets,’ Hazlitt’s ‘ Eng- 
lish Poets,’? De Quincey’s ‘‘ Leaders of 
Literature,’’ Sainte Beuve’s ““ Caus- 
eries,’”? Taine’s ‘‘ English Literature,’’ 
Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours in a Library’ and 
his “Pope”? (Men of Letters), a Ger- 
man ‘‘ Life’? by Deetz (Leipzic, 1876), 
Lowell’s ‘‘ Study Windows,” etc. 


Porson, Richard (b. East Ruston, 
Norfolk, December 25th, 1759; d. Lon- 
don, September 28th, 1808). ‘‘ Letters 
to Mr. Archdeacon Travis’? (1790); 
editions of the ‘‘ Hecuba’’ (1797), 
“ὁ Orestes’’ (1798), ‘‘ Phoenissee’’ (1799), 
‘‘ Medea’? (1801); and other publica- 
tions collected by Monk and Bloom- 
field in the ‘‘ Adversaria’”’ (1812); by 
Dobree in the ‘‘ Note in Aristophanem”’ 
(1820); by Kidd in the ‘‘Tracts and 
Miscellaneous Criticisms’’ (1815); the 
whole forming, with his  ‘‘ Photii 
Greecum Lexicon’’ and ‘‘ An Imperfect 
Outline of his Life’’ by Kidd, the six 
volumes of ‘‘Opera Philologica οὗ 
Critica,’’ See also “" Porsoniana’’ (1814) ; 
ΓΑ Short Account of the Late Mr. 
‘Richard Porson,’’ by the Rev. Stephen 
Weston (1808); ‘‘A Narrative of the 
Last Illness and Death of Richard Por- 
son,’’? by Dr. Adam Clarke (1808); ‘A 
Vindication of the Literary Character of 
the late Professor Porson,’”’ by Crito 
Cantabrigiensis (Dr. Turton, Bishop of 


Ely) (1827); ‘The Life of Richard | 


Porson,’’ by the Rev. J. Selby Watson 
(1861) ; and Aiken’s ‘‘ Athenzeum,”’ 


Porter, Anna Maria (b. 1780; d. 
Bristol, June 2150, 1832). ‘‘ Artless 
Tales’ (1798) ; ““ Octavia”’ (1798); ‘‘ The 
Lakes of Killarney’’ (1804); “‘ A Sailor’s 
Friendship and a Soldier’s Love ”’ (1805); 
‘““The Hungarian Brothers’’ (1807) ; 
“Ton Sebastian’? (1809); ‘‘ Ballads, 
Romances, and Other Poems”’ (1811) ; 


‘‘The Recluse of Norway” (1814); 
““ Walsh Colville’’ (1819); ‘‘ The Feast 
of St. Magdalen ’”’ (1818) ; ‘‘ The Village 
of Mariendorpt’’ (1821); ‘‘The Knight 
of St. John’? (1821) ; ‘‘ Roche Blanche ”’ 
(1822) ; ‘Tales Round a Winter Hearth”? 
(im_conjunction with her sister Jane) ; 
‘‘Honor O’Hara’’ (1826); ‘ Barony ”’ 
(1830) ; and other works. 


Porter, Jane (b. Durham, 1776; 
d. Bristol, May 24th, 1850). ‘‘ Thaddeus 
of Warsaw” (1808); ‘‘The Scottish 
Chiefs’’ (1810); ‘‘The Pastor’s Fire- 
side ’’ (1815) ; ‘‘ Duke Christian of Lune- 
berg’? (1824); ‘‘Coming Out,” and 
“The Field of Forty Fcotsteps’’ (1828); 
‘Tales Round a Winter Hearth” (in 
conjunction with her sister Anna 
Maria) (1826) ; ‘‘ Sir Edward Seaward’s 
Narrative ; ᾽ and other works. 

Praed, Mrs. Rachel Mackworth 
(b. Queensland, March 27th, 1852). 
“An Australian Heroine’? (1880) ; 
“ Policy and Passion’’ (1881) ; ‘‘ Na- 
dine’’ (1882) ; ““ Moloch ”’ (1883) ; ““ Ze- 
ro’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Affinities ’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Aus- 
tralian Life ᾽᾽ (1885) ; ‘‘ The Head Sta- 
tion’? (1885); “ΤΠ Brother of the 
Shadow’? (1886); ‘* Miss Jacobsen’s 
Chance’ (1886) ; ‘‘ The Bond of Wed- 
lock ’’ (1887) ; ‘* Longleat of Kooralbyn”’ 
(1887); ‘‘ Ariane’’ (1888); *‘ The Ro- 
mance of a Station’’ (1891) ; ‘* The Soul 
of Countess Adrian ’’ (1891) ; ‘‘ The Ro- 
mance of a Chalet’? (1892); ‘‘ Outlaw 
and Law-maker’’ (1893); ‘‘ Christina 
Chard’? (1894). Has also written novels 
in collaboration with Mr. Justin Mc- 
Carthy. 

Praed, Winthrop Mackworth (b. 
London, July 26th, 1802; d. July 1th, 
1839). ‘* Poems ’”’ (1864), with Memoir 
by Derwent Coleridge. 

Price, Richard, D.D. (b. Llangeinor, 
Glamorganshire, February 23rd, 1723; 
d. March 19th, 1791). ‘‘ Review of the 
Principal Questions and Difficulties in 
Morals’’ (1758) ; three dissertations on 
“ Prayer,’’ ‘‘ Miraculous Evidences of 
Christianity,’’ and ‘‘ On the Reasons for 
Expecting that Virtuous Men shall meet 
after Death in a State of Happiness ”’ 
(1767) ; and ‘‘ A Free Discussion of the 
Doctrines of Materialism ’’ (1778). See 
the ‘‘ Life’? by Morgan (1815). 


Priestley, Joseph, LU.D. (Ὁ. Field- 
head, near Leeds, March 138th, 1733; 
d. February 6th, 1804). ‘‘The Scrip- 
ture Doctrine of Remission ;’’ ‘‘ Lectures 
on the Theory of Language and Uni- 
versal Grammar’ (1762), ‘‘Chart of 


Prior 


Biography ’’ (1765); ‘‘'The History and 
Present State of Electric Science, with 
Original Observations ’’ (1767) ; ‘* Rudi- 
ments of English Grammar’’ (1769) ; 
“ἢ Theological Repository’? (1769-88) ; 
‘* The History and Present State of Dis- 
coveries relating to Vision, Light, and 
Colours ᾽ (1772) ; *‘ Institutes of Natural 
and Revealed Religion ’’ (1772); ‘‘ Ex- 
amination of Reid, Beattie, etc. ’’ (1774) ; 
‘‘ Experiments and Observations on 
Different Kinds of Air”’ ee ; ‘*The 
Doctrine of Philosophical Necessity ’’ 
(1777); ‘‘ Lectures on Oratory and 
Criticism’? (1777) ; ““ Disquisitions Re- 
lating to Matter and Spirit’? (1777) ; 
“ἜΑ Harmony of the Evangelists, in 
Greek’? (1777) ; ‘* Observations on Edu- 
cation’’ (1778); ‘* Letters to a Philo- 
sophical Unbeliever’’ (1781-87); “Α 
History of Corruptions of Christianity ”’ 

1782) ; ‘‘ A History of Early Opinions 
Concerning Jesus Christ ’’ (1786) ; ‘* Lec- 
tures on History and General Policy ”’ 
(1783); ‘*A General History of the 
Christian Church to the Fall of the 
Western Empire ”’ (1790) ; ‘* Discourses 
on the Evidences of Revealed Religion ”’ 
(1794); ‘‘An Answer to Mr. Paine’s 
‘Age of Reason’” (1795); “Α Com- 
parison of the Institutes of Moses with 
tiose of the Hindoos and other Ancient 
Nations’ (1799) ; ‘‘ A General History 
of the Christian Church from the Fall of 
the Western Empire to the Present 
Time’’ (1802) ; ‘‘ Notes on all the Books 
of Scripture’? (1803) ; ‘‘ The Doctrines 
of Heathen Philosophy Compared with 
those of Revelation’’ (1804) ; and other 
‘““Works”’ included in the 26-volume 
edition published with a ‘ Life’? by 
J. Towill Rutt, in 1823. 


Prior, Matthew (Ὁ. July 2lst, 1664; 
d. Wimpole, September 18th, 1721). 
“ The City and Country Mouse’’ (1687) 
(with Halifax); ‘‘Carmen Seculare”’ 
(1700); and other works, a collected 
edition of which appeared in 1718. 
‘*Poems”’ edited, with biographical and 
critical introductions, by Dr. Johnson 

(1822), John Mitford (1835), and George 
Gilfillan (1857). ‘* Memoirs”? and ‘* Sup- 
plement ’’ to Poems in 1722. 

Procter, Adelaide Anne (b. Lon- 
don, October 30th, 1825; d. London, 
February 2nd, 1854). ‘‘ Legends and 
Lyrics’? (1858). Sze the ‘‘ Memoir”’ 
prefixed to her Poems by Charles 
Dickens (1866). 

Procter, Bryan Waller, ‘ Barry 
Cornwall’ (Ὁ. Wiltshire or London, No- 
vember 21st, 1787; ἃ, London, October 


1404 


Pusey 


4th, 1874). ‘* Dramatic Scenes’’ (1819); 
“Α Sicilian Story ’’ (1820); ‘* Marcian 
Colonna ’’ (1820) ; ‘* Mirandola,”’ a play 
(1821); “The Flood of Thessaly” 
(1822) ; ‘‘ Effigies Poetic ;’’ ‘‘ English 
Songs’’ (1832); “ Essays and Tales in 
Prose’? (1851); besides ‘* Biographies ”’ 
of Kean and Lamb. Edited Bhake- 
speare and Ben Jonson. See Miss Mar- 
tineau’s ‘‘ Biographical Sketches’? and 
his ‘* Autobiography ᾽ (1877). 


Proctor, Richard Anthony (b. 
March 23rd, 1837; ἃ. 1888). ‘* Saturn 
and its System ’’ (1865) ; ‘‘ Handbook of 
the Stars, and Gnomonic Star Atlas” 
(1866) ; ‘‘ Constellation Seasons ’’ (1867) ; 
‘* Half-Hours with the Stars’’ (1869) ; 
‘Other Worlds than Ours’ (1870); 
‘“*The Borderland of Science’’ ΤῊΝ : 
“Transits of Venus’? (1874); ‘*The 
Universe and Coming Transits ’’ (1874) ; 
‘Wages and Wants of Science Workers”’ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ Myths and Marvels of Astro- 
nomy’’ (1877); ‘‘ Pleasant Ways in 
Science ἢ (1878) ; ‘‘ Rough Ways Made 
Smooth ’’ (1879) ; ‘‘ Easy Star Lessons ’”’ 
(1881); ‘‘ Familiar Science Studies ’’ 
(1882) ; ‘‘Chance and Luck”’’ (1887). 
Was the editor of Knowledge. 


Prynne, William (b. Swainswick, 
Somersetshire, 1600 ; d. London, October 
24th, 1669). ‘* Histrio- Mastix: the 
Player’s Scourge, or Actor’s Tragedie ’’ 
(1633) ; ‘‘ Newes from Ipswich ᾽ (1637) ; 
“The Antipathie of the English Lordly 
Legacie both to Regall Monarchy and 
Civill Unity’? (1641); ‘‘A Pleasant 
Purge fora Roman Catholic to Evacuate 
his Evill Humours” (1642); ‘* Pride’s 
Purge ’’ (1648) ; ‘‘ Recordsof the Tower; ἢ 
‘Parliamentary Writs,’’ ete. See vol. 
iii. of Howell’s ‘‘ State Trials and Docu- 
ments Relating to William Prynne,”’ 
etc. (Camden Society, 1877). 


Purchas, Samuel (b. Thaxted, Es- 
sex, 1577; d. London, September 30th, 
1626). ‘* Purchas, his Pilgrimage; or, 
Relations of the World, and the Re- 
ligions Observed in all Ages and Places 
discovered from the Creation to this 
Present ’’ (1613); ‘‘ Microcosmus ; or, 
the Historie of Man” (1619); ‘The 
King’s Tower and Triumphant Arch of 
London ᾽ (1623); ‘‘ Haklytus Posthu- 
mus; or, Purchas his Pilgrimes, con- 
tayning a History of the World, in Sea 
Voyages and Lande Travels, by English- 
men and Others ”’ (1625-26). 


Pusey, Edward Bouverie, D.D. 
(b. 1800; d. September 16th, 1882). 


& The Doctrine of the Real Presence 


Puttenham 


1405 


Raleigh 


Vindicated’”’ (1855); ‘‘A History of 
the Councils of the Church’’ (1857) ; 
‘Sermons Preached before the Uni- 
versity of Oxford ’’ (1859 and 1872) ; 
““The Minor Prophets, with Commen- 
tary ’’ (1862-67) ; ‘‘ Daniel the Prophet”’ 
(1864) ; ‘* The Church of England a Por- 
tion of Christ’s One Holy Catholic 
Church ᾽ (1865); ‘‘ Un- Science, rot 
Science, Adverse to Faith’’ (1878); 
“* Advice on Hearing Confession”? (1878) ; 
‘* Parochial Sermons;’’ ‘‘ What is of 
Faith as to Everlasting Punishment ’’ 
(1880) ; ‘‘Sermons for the Church’s 
Seasons’’ (1883); ‘* Private Prayers’’ 
(1883). Edited ‘* Tracts for the Times.” 
Vols. i. and ii. of ‘‘Life’’ by Liddon 
and others (1893). 


Puttenham, George (Ὁ. circa 1530). 
“‘Partheniades’? (1579); ‘‘ Arte of 
English Poesie ’’ (1589) ; both reprinted, 
with Memoir of the Author by Hazle- 
wood in 1811. Facsimile of the ‘‘ Arte”’ 
by Arber (1869). 

Pye, Henry James (b. London, 
1745; d. 1813). ‘*The Progress of Re- 
finement’”’ (1783); ‘‘ Shooting’? (1784) ; 
“Α Commentary Illustrating the Poetics 
of Aristotle, by Examples taken chiefly 
from the Modern Poets’’ (1792); ‘‘ Al- 
fred’? (1801); and ‘‘ Comments on the 
Commentators of Shakespeare ’’ (1807) ; 
** Poems ᾽᾽ (1810). 


Q 


“Q.” (See Coucn, ARTHUR THOMAS 
QUILLER. 


Quarles, Francis (Ὁ. Romford, Essex, 
1592; ἃ, September 8th, 1644). “A 
Feast for Wormes ”’ (1620); ‘‘ Pentalogia; 
or, the Quintessence of Meditation ’’ 
(1620) ; ‘‘ Hadassa; or, the History of 
Queen Esther”? (1621); ‘‘ Argalus and 
Parthenia ’’ (1621); ‘‘ Job Militant, with 
Meditations Divine and Moral’’ (1624) ; 
‘*Sion’s Elegies Wept by Jeremie the 
Prophet " (1624) ; “‘ Sion’s Sonnets Sung 
by Solomon the King, and periphras’d ”’ 
(1625) ; ‘* Divine Poems ’”’ (1630); ‘‘ Di- 
vine Fancies’’ (1632); ‘‘ Emblems, Di- 
vine and Moral”’ (1635); ‘‘ Hieroglyphics 
of the Life of Man’’ (1688); ‘The 
Shepherd’s Oracles’? (1644); ‘‘ The 
Virgin Widow’’ (1649); ‘‘ Enchiridion, 
Containing Institutions Divine, Contem- 
plative, Practicall, Moral, Ethical, Eco- 
nomical, Political’ (1652), etc. 


Quincey, Thomas de (b. Manches- 
ter, August 15th, 1785; d. Edinburgh, 


December 8th, 1859). ‘‘ Works”? (1853): 
—i. ‘‘Autobiographic Sketches’’; ii. 
‘* Autobiographic Sketches, with Recol- 
lections of the Lakes’’; iii. ‘‘ Miscel- 
lanies, chiefly Narrative’’; iv. ‘‘ Miscel- 
lanies’’; v. ‘‘ Confessions of an English 
Opium Eater’’ (1822); vi. ‘‘ Sketches, 
Critical and Biographic’’; vii. ‘‘ Studies 
of Secret Records, Personal and His- 
toric’; viii, ‘Essays, Sceptical and 
Anti-Seeptical ; or, Problems Neglected 
or Misconceived’’?; ix. ‘‘ Leaders in 
Literature, with a Notice of Traditional 
Errors affecting Them’’; x. ‘Classic 
Records, Reviewed and Deciphered”? ; 
xi, ‘‘ Critical Suggestions on Style and 
Rhetoric, with German Tales’; xii. 
‘* Speculations, Literary and Philosophie, 
with German Tales’’; xiii. ‘‘Specula- 
tions, Literary and Philosophic’”’; and 
xiv. ‘‘ Letters to a Young Man whose 
Education has been Neglected.’? Much 
more complete edition by Ticknor and 
Field, of Boston, U.S., in twenty 
volumes. For biography, sce his 
“‘Autobiography,’’ Miss Martineau’s 
‘* Biographical Sketches,’’ his ‘‘ Life’’ 
by Page (1877), and Prof. Masson in the 
English Men of Letters series. For 
Criticism, sce Stirling’s ‘“‘ Essays’? and 
Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours in a Library,”’ etc. 


R 


Radcliffe, Anne (b. London, July 
9th, 1764; d. London, February 7th, 
1823). ‘‘The Castles of Athlin and 
Dunbayne’’ (1789); ‘‘The  Silician 
Romance’”’ (1790); ‘‘The Romance of 
the Forest’’ (1791) ; ‘‘ The Mysteries of 
Udolpho”’ (1794) ; ‘‘ A Journey Through 
Holland”’ Cs “The Italian’’ (1797); 
‘Gaston de Blondeville’’ (1826) ; and 
‘Poems’? (1834). For Biography and 
Criticism, see Scott’s ““ Biographies,’’ 
Dunlop’s ‘‘ History of Fiction,’’? Ka- 
vanagh’s ‘*Women of Letters,’’ and 
Jeaffreson’s ‘‘ Novels and Novelists.”’ 


Raleigh, Sir Walter (b. Hayes, 
Devonshire, 1552; d. London, October 
29th, 1618). ‘‘The Discovery of the 
Large, Beautiful, and Rich Empire of 
Guiana’’ (1596); ‘‘A History of the 
World” (1614) ; ‘‘ Advice to his Son,” 
etc. ‘‘ Works” in 1751 and 1829. For 
Biography, see the ‘‘ Lives’? by White- 
head, Oldys, Birch, Cayley (1805), 
Thomson (1830), Tytler (1833), Napier 
(1857), St. John (1868), and Edwards 
(1870) ; also, D’Israeli’s ‘‘ Curiosities of 
Literature,’’ and Kingsley’s ‘‘ Miscel- 


Ramsay 


1406 


Reeves 


lanies.’’ For Criticism, see Zhe Edin- 
burgh Review, vol. lxxi., and Hannah’s 
edition of the ‘‘Poems’’ (1875). See 
also the ‘ Bibliography’? by T. N. 
Brushfield (1886). 


Ramsay, Allan (Ὁ. Leadhills, Lan- 
arkshire, October 15th, 1686; d. Edin- 
burgh, January 7th, 1758). ‘‘ Poems”’ 
(1721); ‘*Fables and Tales’? (1722); 
“The Monk and the Miller’s Wife’ 
(1723); ‘‘Health,’? ‘‘Tea-Table Mis- 
cellany,’’ and ‘‘Evergreen’’ (1724); 
‘The Gentle Shepherd’? (1725); 
“Thirty Fables’? (17380); ‘* Scots Pro- 
verbs’’ (1786). ‘* Works,’’ with *‘ Life”’ 
(1877). 

Ramsay, Edward Bannerman, 
LL.D., Dean of Edinburgh (b, Aberdeen, 
January 3lst, 1793; ἃ. Edmburgh, De- 
cember 27th, 1872). ‘‘ Reminiscences of 
Scottish Life and Character ”’ (1857). See 
‘*‘Memoir’’ by Professor Cosmo Innes, 
prefixed to twenty-third edition of 
** Reminiscences,’’ and ‘‘ Memorials and 
Recollections ’’ by C. Rogers (1873). 


Randolph, Thomas (b. Newnham, 
Northamptonshire, 1605; d. March 17th, 
1635), ‘* Aristippus; or, The Jovial 
Philosopher ᾿" (1630); ‘The Jealous 
Lovers’? (1632); ‘‘Cornelianum Dolium”’ 

1638); ‘* Amyntas; or, The Impossible 
owry ”’ (1638); ‘* Hey for Honesty ”’ 
(1651); and ‘‘ Poems,’’ published with 
‘*The Muses’ Looking-Glass,’’ and his 
other works (1668). ‘‘ Dramatic Works,’’ 
edited by W. Carew Hazlitt (1875). Sze 
Wood’s ‘‘ Athenze Oxonienses’’ and The 
Retrospective Review, vi. 61-87. 

Rawlinson, The Rev. Professor 
George (Ὁ. 1815). ‘‘ New Version of 
Herodotus” (1858-62); ‘‘ The Five Great 
Monarchies of the Ancient Eastern 


World” (1862); ‘* Manual of Ancient 
History ’’ (1869); ‘‘The Sixth Great 
Oriental Monarchy” (1873); ‘The 


Seventh Great Oriental Monarchy ”’ 
(1876); ‘‘ The History of Ancient Egypt”’ 
(1881); ‘The Religions of the Ancient 
World ”’ (1882); ‘‘ Egypt and Babylon ”’ 
(1885); ‘*Parthia’’ (1886); ‘‘ Moses: 
his Life and Times” (1887); ‘‘ Biblical 
Topography ’’ (1887); ‘‘The Kings of 
Israel and Judah’’ (1889); ‘* Isaac and 
Jacob ᾽ (1890) ; ‘* History of Phoenicia ”’ 
(1893), etc. Has also written expositions 
of several books of the Old Testament. 


Rawlinson, Major-Gen. Sir Henry 
Creswicke, F.R.S., D.C.L., LL.D. (b. 
Chadlington, Oxon., 1810; d. March 
δίῃ, 1895). ‘The Persian Cuneiform 
Inscription at Behistun ’’ (1846); ‘‘ The 


Cuneiform Inscription of Babylon and 
Assyria’? (1850); ‘Outline of the 
History of Assyria ’’ (1852); ‘‘ Notes on 
the Early History of Babylonia’ (1854); 
translation of ‘The Inscription of 
Tiglath Pileser’’ (1857); ‘‘ England and 
Russia in the East’? (1874). Joint 
editor of ‘‘ The Cuneiform Inscriptions 
of Western Asia’’ (1861-70), ete. 


Rayleigh, John William Strutt, 
Lord, D.C.L., LL.D. (b. November 12th, 
1842), “ὙΠῸ Theory of Sound” (1877- 
78), ete. Edited Clerk Maxwell’s 
ἐς Heat ᾽ (1891-94). 


Reade, Charles, D.C.L. (b. 1814; 

ἃ. April 11th, 1884). “Ῥορ Woftington”’ 
(1851); ‘* Christie Johnstone’’ (1853) ; 
‘It is Never Too Late to Mend”’ ΠΩ : 
‘* The Course of True Love Never Does 
Run Smooth’? (1857); ‘Jack of All 
Trades ’’ (1858); ‘*‘ Love Me Little, Love 
Me Long” (1859); ‘‘White Lies” 
(1860) ; ‘* The Cloister and the Hearth "ἢ 
(1801); ‘* Hard Cash ’’ (1863); ‘‘ Griffith 
Gaunt’? (1866); “ Foul Play,’’ with 
Dion Boucicault (1869) ; ‘* Put Yourself 
in his Place’? (1870); ‘‘A Terrible 
Temptation ’’ (1871); ‘‘ A Simpleton”’ 
(1873) ; ** The Wandering Heir ’’ (1875); 
‘“‘A Hero and Martyr” (1876); ‘A 
Woman-Hater’’ (1877); and “Α Peril- 
ous Secret ’’ (1883); besides the follow- 
ing dramas: ‘Gold’ (1850); ‘‘Two 
Loves and a Life’’ (1854); ‘‘ The King’s 
Rivals’’ (1854); ‘‘ Masks and Faces’? 
with Tom Taylor, 1854); ‘‘ Foul Play ”’ 
wien Boucicault) (1868) ; ‘* The Wander- 
ing Heir”? (1875) ; ‘* The Scuttled Ship” 
(1877); ‘‘Drink’’ (1879); and ‘* Love 
and Money’? (1883). ‘‘ Life’’ by C, L. 
Reade and Compton Reade (1887). 


Reeve, Clara (b. Ipswich, 1738; d. 
Ipswich, December 3rd, 1803). ‘‘ Poems”’ 
(1769); ‘The Phoenix” (1772); ‘‘ The 
Champion of Virtue; or, the Old Eng- 
lish Baron”? (1777); ‘‘ The Progress of 
Romance ’”’ (1785); ‘* The Two Monitors,’’ 
“ΤῊ Exile,’’ ‘‘ The School for Widows,”’ 
‘Plans of Education,’’ and ‘‘ The Me- 
moirs of Sir Roger de Clarendon,.’’ See 
Sir Walter Scott’s ‘‘ Biographies’? and 
Jeaffreson’s ‘‘ Novels and Novelists.” 


Reeves, Mrs. Henry, xée Helen 
Buckingham Mathers (b. Crewkerne, 
1852). ‘Comin’ Through the Rye’”’ 
(1875) ; ‘* The Token of the Silver Lily ”’ 
ΤΩΣ ‘“‘Cherry Ripe” (1878); “ΜΥ 
Lady Green Sleeves” (1879); ‘‘ The 
Story of a Sin” (1882); ‘‘Sam’s Sweet. 
heart’? (1883); ‘‘Eyre’s Acquittal’’ 
(1884); ‘‘ Jock ο᾽ Hazelgreen’’ (1884) ; 


Reid 


1407 


Riddell 


ee  ““-  ---------΄------- 


‘‘Found Out’? (1885); ‘Murder or 
Manslaughter”? (1885); ‘‘The Fashion 
of This World’? (1886); ‘Blind 
Justice’? (1889); ‘The Mystery of 
No. 13”? (1891) ; ‘‘My Jo, John” (1891); 
‘‘™other Dear Charmer’’ (1892); ‘A 
Study of a Woman” (1893); ‘* What 
the Glass Told” (1893); ‘‘A Man of 
To-day ᾽ (1894). 


Reid, Mayne (Ὁ. Ulster, 1818; ἃ. 
London, October 22nd, 1883). ‘‘ The 
Rifle Rangers” (1849); ‘‘ The Scalp 
Hunters’? (1850); ‘* The Boy Hunters” 
(1852) ; ‘‘ The Young Voyagers”’ (1853); 
“The White Chief’? (1855); ‘‘ The 
Quadroon”’ (1856) ; “ὙΠῸ War Trail” 
(1858) ; “Τὴ Wild Huntress’’ (1861) ; 
“The Cliff Climbers’”’ (1864); ‘‘The 
Headless Horseman”? (1865) ; ‘‘ Afloat in 
the Forest’? (1866); ‘‘The Guerilla 
Chief’? (1867); ‘‘The Child Wife” 
(1868) ; ‘‘ The Castaways” (1870); ‘The 
Finger of Fate”? (1872); ‘‘ The Death 
Shot”? (1873); and ‘The 
Distress ’’ (1876), ete. 


Reid, Sir τ. Wemyss, LL.D. (Ὁ. 
Newcastle-on-Tyne, 1842). ‘* Cabinet 
Portraits ”’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Charlotte Bronté ”’ 
(1877) ; ‘‘ Politicians of To-day”’ (1879); 
“The Land of the Bey’ (1882); 
‘“‘ Gladys Fane’? (1883) ; ‘‘ Mauleverer’s 
Millions” (1886); ‘‘ Life of the Right 
Hon. W. Ἐ- Forster’’ (1888); ‘‘ Life, 
Letters, οἷο, of Richard Monckton 
Milnes, First Lord. Hovghton”’ (1890). 
Editor of Zhe Speaker, and formerly of 
the Leeds Mercury. 


Reid, Thomas (b. Strachan, Kin- 
cardineshire, April 26th, 1710; ἃ. Glas- 
gow, October 7th, 1796). ‘“ Hssay on 
Quantity ’’ (1745); ‘‘ An Inquiry into the 
Human Mind on the Principles of Com- 
mon Sense’? (1764); ‘‘The Logics of 
Aristotle”? appended to Lord Kames’s 
“Sketches of the History of Man” 
(1773); ‘‘ Essays on the Intellectual 
Powers of Man’’ (1785); and ‘* Essays on 
the Active Powers of the Human Mind” 
(1788). ‘‘ Works,’’__with Dissertation 
and Notes, by Sir William Hamilton, 
and with a ‘‘ Life’? by Dugald Stewart, 
in 1846. For Criticism, see Priestley, 
Dugald Stewart, Brown, Royer Collard, 
Cousin, Professor Fraser, and McCosh, 


Reynolds, Sir Joshua (b. Plymp- 
ton, Devonshire, July 16th, 1723; d. 
February 23rd, 1792). ‘‘ Discourses on 
Painting ’’ (1771); three contributions 
to The Idler, some notes to Mason’s 
translation of Du Fresnoy’s ‘‘ Art of 
Painting,’ and ‘s Notes’? on a tour 


Flag of 


through Flanders and Holland. ‘‘ Lit- 
erary Works” in 1797, with ‘‘ Life”’ by 
Malone. ‘‘Life’? by Northcote, in 
1813; by Farrington, in 1819; by Cot- 
ton, in 1856 ; and by Leslie and Taylor, 
in 1865. See also Stephen’s ‘‘ English 
Children, as painted by Reynolds” 
1866) ; and Dr. Hamilton’s ‘‘ Catalogue 

aisonné”’ (1875). 

Ricardo, David (b. London, April 
19th, 1772; d. Gateomb Park, Gloucester- 
shire, September 11th, 1823). “ὙΠῸ High 
Price of Bullion a Proof of the Deprecia- 
tion of Bank Notes’’ (1809); ‘‘ On the 
Influence of a Low Price of Corn on the 
Profits of Stock’? (1815); ‘‘ Proposals 
for an Economical and Secure Currency ”” 
(1816); ‘Principles of Political Economy 
and Taxation’? (1817); ‘‘ On Protection to 
Agriculture’ (1822); and a ‘‘ Plan for 
the Establishment of a National Bank”’ 
(1824). ‘* Works,”? with “ Life”? by 
J. R. McCulloch (1846). 

Richard of Cirencester (d. 1402). 
ςς Historia ab Hengista ad annum 1348,” 
“De Situ Britanniw,’’ with Life, in 1509, 
now one of the ‘‘ Six Old English Chroni- 
cles’? in Bohn’s Antiquarian Library 
(1848). See Mayor’s ‘‘ Ricardi de Ciren- 
castria Speculum Historiale de Gestis 
Regum Angliz” (Public Record Series, 
1863, 1869). 

Richardson, Sir Benjamin Ward, 
M.D., LL.D. (b. Somerby, October 3lst, 
1828). ‘* Hygeia’’ (1876) ; “Α Ministry 
of Health, ete.’’ (1879) ; “ὙΠῸ Son of a 
Star’? (1888); ‘Thomas Sopwith” 
(1891) ; also many medical works. 


Richardson, Samuel (b. Derby- 
shire, 1689; d. July 4th, 1761). * Nego- 
ciations of Sir Thomas Roe in his Em- 
bassy to the Ottoman Porte” (1740) ; 
‘‘ Pamela”? (1741) ; “ Clarissa Harlowe”’ 
(1748) ; ‘‘ Sir Charles Grandison”’ (1784); 
and No. 97 of Dr. Johnson’s Rambler, 
Complete Works, with Life (1811); Cor- 
respondence (1804). For Criticism, see 
Masson’s ‘‘ Novelists and Their Styles,”’ 
Scott’s ‘‘ Novelists and Dramatists,” 
Hazlitt’s ‘‘Comic Writers,” Taine’s 
‘¢ English Literature,”’ Stephen’s 
‘Hours in a Library,”’ etc. 


Riddell, Mrs. Charlotte ἘΠ. L. (Ὁ: 
1837). ‘*The Moor and the Fens”’ 
(1858); ‘‘ George Geith”’ (1864) ; ‘* Max- 
well Drewett”’ (1865); ‘‘ The Race for 
Wealth” (1866) ; ‘‘ Far Above Rubies ’”’ 
1867); ‘‘ Austin Friars”’ (1870); ‘Home, 

weet Home” (1873); ‘‘The Ruling 
Passion”’ (1876); ‘‘ The Mystery in Palace 
Gardens” (1880); ‘‘A Struggle for 


Rigg 


1408 


Robinson 


Fame ”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Mitre Court ’’ (1885) ; 


‘*Miss Gascoigne”’ Seg ‘*Tdle Tales” 
(1888); ‘*The Nun’s Curse’’ (1888) ; 
“Ὁ Princess Sunshine ’’ (1889); ‘A Mad 


Tour’? (1891); ‘‘My First Love”’ 
(1891) ; ‘‘The Head of the Firm”? (1892); 
“A Silent Tragedy” (1893); ‘‘The 
Rusty Sword ᾽ (1893), ete. 


Rigg, Rev. James Harrison, D.D. 
(Ὁ. Newcastle-on-Tyne, 1821), ‘* Prin- 
ciples of bias be Methodism ”’ (1850) ; 
‘* Modern Anglican Theology’ (1887) ; 
‘*Relations of J.Wesley... tothe Church 
of England’”’ (1868) ; ** National Educa- 
tion’’ (1873); ‘‘The Living Wesley ”’ 
(1875) ; “Discourses and Addresses on 
Leading Truths of Religion and Philo- 
sophy’’ (1880); ‘*Character and Life 
Work of Dr. Pusey’ (1883); ‘* Com- 
parative View of the Church Organisa- 
tions ’’ (1887), ete. Editor of the London 
Quarterly Review. 


“Rita,” vere Mrs. Eliza M. J. von 
Booth (b. in Scotland). ‘* Vivienne ”’ 
(1877); ‘‘Like Dian’s Kiss’? (1878) ; 
**Countess Daphne’’ (1880); ‘* A Sin- 
less Secret’’ (1881); ‘‘ My Lady Coquette”’ 
(1881) ; ‘* Faustine’’ (1882); ‘‘ After 
Long Grief and Pain’’ (1883) ; ‘*‘ Dame 
Durden”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ My Lord Conceit’’ 
(1884) ; ‘* Two Bad Blue Eyes’’ (1884) ; 
“ Corinna’’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Gretchen” (1887) ; 
“Darby and Joan’? (1888); ‘ Miss 
Kate ’’ (1889) ; ‘‘ Sheba ’’ (1889) ; ‘‘ The 
Laird οὐ Cockpen’’ (1891); ‘‘ Asenath 
of the Ford”’ (1892); ‘f Brought Toge- 
ther ’’ (1892) ; ‘‘ The Man in Possession ἢ 
(1893) ; ““ Countess Pharamond ᾽ (1893) ; 
“The Ending of My Day’ (1894); 
“Peo the Rake’’ (1894) ; ‘‘ A Husband 
of No Importance’’ (1894) ; ‘‘ A Gender 
in Satin ᾽ (1895), ete. 


Ritson, Joseph (b. Stockton, Octo- 
ber 2nd, 1752; ἃ. September 8rd, 1803). 
‘‘English Songs’? (1783); ‘* Ancient 
Songs’? (1790); ‘‘ Ancient Popular 
Poetry ’’ (1791) ; ‘‘ An English Antho- 
logy’’ (1793-94); ““ Scottish Songs”’ 
(1794) ; ‘Robin Hood Poems”’ (1795) ; 
*“*Minot’s Poems’? (1795); ‘‘ Biblio- 
graphia Poetica’’? (1802); ‘‘ Northern 
Garlands” (1810) ; ‘‘ Gammer Gurton’s 


Garland?’ (1810); ‘* The Caledonian 
Muse’’ (1821); “A Life of King 
Arthur’’ (1825); ‘‘Memoirs of the 


Celts or Gauls’? (1827); ‘‘ Annals of 
the Caledonians’’ (1828) ; ‘‘ Fairy Tales”’ 
(1831). ‘‘Life and Letters,” by Sir 
Harris Nicolas (1833). 


Robertson, Frederick William (b. 
London, February 8rd, 1816; d. Brigh- 


ton, August 14th, 1853). ‘‘Sermons’”’ 
1855-73); ‘* Lectures and Addresses on 
iterary and Social Subjects’? (1858) ; 
ἐς Expository Lectures on St. Paul's 
Epistles to the Corinthians’’ (1859); 
“An Analysis of Mr. Tennyson’s ‘In 
Memoriam’’’ (1862); and ‘ Notes on 
Genesis’’ . (1877). “‘ Life,’”’ by Rev. 
Stopford A. Brooke (1865), 


Robertson, William, D.D. (b. 
Borthwick, Midlothian, September 19th, 
1721; ἃ. June 11th, 1793). ‘*The His- 
tory of Scotland during the Reigns of 
Queen Mary and of King James VI., till 
his Accession to the Crown of England ”’ 
(1759, and, with additions and corree- 
tions, 1787); ‘* The History of the Reign 
of the Emperor Charles V., with a View 
of the Progress of Society in Europe, 
from the Subversion of the Roman Em- 
pire to the beginning of the Sixteenth 
Century”? (1769); “The History of 
America’? (1777, and, with additions 
and corrections, 1788); and ‘‘ An His- 
torical Disquisition concerning the 
Knowledge which the Ancients had of 
India, and the Progress of Trade with 
that Country prior to the Discovery of 
the Passage to it by the Cape of Good 
Hope” (1791). Works, with Life, by 
Bishop Gleig, in 1828. ‘‘ Account of the 
Life and Writings of William Robertson, 
D.D.,’’ by Digald Stewart (1801). See 
also Brougham’s ‘‘ Men of Letters of the 
Time of George ITI.”’ 


Robinson, A. Mary F., Madame 
Darmesteter (Ὁ. Leamington, February 
27th, 1857). “Α Handtul of Honey- 
suckle ’’ (1878); ‘‘ The Crowned Hippo- 
lytus ’’ (1880) ; ‘‘ Emily Bronté ”’ (1883) ; 
“Arden”? (1883) ; ‘‘ New Arcadia, and 
Other Poems’’ (1884); ‘‘An Italian 
Garden”’ (1886); ‘‘The End of the 
Middle Ages ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Songs, Ballads, 
and a Garden Play’’ (1888); ‘* Retro- 
spect and Other Poems ”’ (1893). 


Robinson, Γ΄. W. (Ὁ. Spitalfields, De- 
cember 23rd, 1830). ‘‘A Woman's 
Ransom’”’ (1863); ‘*‘ Mrs. Stewart’s In- 
tentions ’’ (1864); ‘‘ No Man’s Friend” 
(1867) ; ‘‘ Anne Judge, Spinster ’’ (1867) ; 
“For Her Sake’’ (1869); ‘‘ True to 
Herself ’’ (1870); ‘‘ A Bridge of Glass ”’ 
(1872); ‘‘Her Face was Her Fortune ”’ 
(1873); ‘‘ Little Kate Kirby”? (1873) ; 
‘¢ As Long as She Lives”’ (1876) ; ‘‘ Poor 
Zeph,”’ etc. (1880); ‘‘ Women are 
Strange,’’ etc. (1889); ‘‘ The Hands of 
Justice ’’ (1883); ‘‘ The Man She Cared 
For ’’ (1884) ; ‘‘ Poor Humanity ”’ (1884) ; 
‘‘Tazarus in London”’ (1885); “Α Fair 


Kopinson 


1409 


Rossetti 


Maid’”’ (1886); ‘‘The Youngest Miss 
Green ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The Courting of Mary 
Smith’’ (1885); ‘‘ The Keeper of the 
Keys’? (1890); ‘‘A Very Strange 
Family ’’ (1890); ‘‘ Her Love and His 
Life’’ (1891); ‘‘The Wrong that was 
Done”’ (1892); ‘‘The Fate of Sister 
Jessica,’’ etc. (1893). 


Robinson, Henry Crabb (b. Bury 
St. Edmunds, May 138th, 1775; ἃ. Lon- 
don, February 5th, 1867). ‘Diary, 
Reminiscences, and Correspondence ”’ 
(1869). 

Rochester, Earl of, John Wilmot 
(Ὁ. Ditchley, Oxfordshire, April 10th, 
1647; ἃ. July 26th, 1680). ““ Poems”’ 
teary “Valentinian” (1685); ‘‘ Letters’’ 
1697); ‘‘ Works” (1709). See Burnet’s 
**Passages of the Life and Death of 
John, Earl of Rochester.”’ 


Rogers, Henry (b. about 1814; d. 
August 20th, 1877). ‘‘ Essays from The 
Edinburgh leview” (1850, with additions 
in 1874); ‘‘ The Kclipse of Faith ”’ 
(1852) ; ‘‘ Life of Thomas Fuller ᾽᾽ (1856) ; 
**Reason and Faith’’ (1866); ““ Essays 
from Good Words’’ (1868) ; ““ Theological 
Controversies of the Time”’ (1874); ‘* The 
Superhuman Origin of the Bible ’’ (1874); 
and ‘‘ Selections from the Correspondence 
ot R. E. H. Greyson.’ Edited Burke’s 
“*Works,”’ etc. 


Rogers, Samuel (b. Newington 
Green, near London, July 30th, 1763; 
d. London, December 18th, 1855). ‘‘ The 
Scribbler,’ in The Gentleman's Maga- 
zine; ‘‘Ode to Superstition, and Other 
Poems’? (1786); ‘‘The Pleasures of 
Memory” (1792); ‘“‘An Epistle to a 
Friend ’’ (1798); ‘‘Columbus’’ (1812) ; 
‘* Jacqueline’’ (1814); ‘‘ Human Life’’ 
(1819) ; and ‘‘Italy”’ (1822). ‘‘ Recol- 
lections of the Table Talk of Samuel 
Rogers, Esq., with a Memoir of His 
Life,’’ in 1856, and further ‘‘ Recollec- 
tions,’’ edited by William Sharpe, in 
1859. See Hayward’s ‘‘ Biographical 
and Critical Essays,’’ first series; Ros- 
coe’s ‘‘ Essays;’’ Jeffrey’s ‘‘ Essays; ”’ 
Hazlitt’s ‘‘ English Poets; ’’ Lockhart’s 
‘Life of Scott,’? chaps. Ixii., Ixxvi.; 
Martineau’s ‘‘ Biographical Sketches ; ”’ 
and P. W. Clayden’s ‘‘ Early Life of 
Samuel Rogers’ (1887), and ‘‘ Rogers 
and His Contemporaries ”’ (1889). 


Romanes, George John, LL.D. (b. 
May 20th, 1848; d. May 23rd, 1894). 
‘‘ Mental Evolution’? (1878); ‘‘ Animal 
Intelligence ’’ (1882) ; ‘‘ Charles Darwin, 
His Character and Life’’ (1882); ‘* The 
Scientific Evidences of Organic Evolu- 


89 


tion”? (1883); ‘‘ Mental Evolution in 
Animals’? (1883) ; ‘‘ The Starfish, Jelly- 
fish, and Sea Urchins”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Mental 
Evolution in Man’”’ (1888); ‘* Darwin, 
and After Darwin” (1892); ‘‘ An Ex- 
amination of Weismannism ”’ 
“Thoughts on Religion,”’ 
Canon Gore (1895); ‘* Mind, Motion, 
and Monism”’ (1895). 


Roscoe, William (Ὁ. Liverpool, 
March 8th, 1753; d. Liverpool, June 
30th, 1831). ‘* The Life of Lorenzo di 
Medici, the Magnificent ’’ (1795) ; ‘*‘ The 
Life and Pontiticate of Leo the Tenth ”’ 
(1805) ; ‘* On the Origin and Vicissitudes 
of Literature” (1817), etc. ‘‘ Life’’ by 
his son (1833). 

Roscommon, The Earl of (b. 1663 ; 
d. 1684). ‘Translation of Horace’s 
Art of Poetry’? (1683); ‘‘ Essay on 
Translated Verse’’ (1684). His verses 
were published in Johnson’s ‘* Collection 
of the Poets,’’ and a collection of his 
‘* Works ’’ was published in 1700. 


Rosebery, The Right Hon. Archi- 
bald Philip Primrose, Earl of, 
LL.D. (Ὁ. London, 1847). ‘‘Pitt’’ (1891). 


Rossetti, Christina Georgina (b. 
London, December Sth, 1830; ἃ. De- 
cember 29th, 1894). ‘‘ Goblin Market 
and Other Poems” (1862); ‘‘ The 
Prince’s Progress, and Other Poems ”’ 
1866) ; ““ Commonplace and other Short 
tories ’’ (1870); ‘‘ Sing-Song: a Nursery 
Rhyme-book”’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Speaking Like- 
nesses’? (1874); ‘‘Annus Domini: A 
Prayer for Every Day in the Year”’ 
1874); ‘‘ Seek and Find ”’ (1879); ‘‘ Short 
tudies of the Benedicite’”’? (1879); 
“Called to be Saints’’ (1881); ‘‘ Letter 
and Spirit’? (1883); ‘‘Time Flies” 
(1885) ; ‘‘ The Face of the Deep ”’ (1892). 
Poems collected in 1875; enlarged edi- 
tion, 1891. 


Rossetti, Dante Gabriel (Ὁ. 1828; 
ἃ. April 9th, 1882). ‘* The Early Italian 
Poets’’ (1861) (reproduced in 1873 as 
‘“‘Dante and His Circle’’); ‘‘ Poems’”’ 
(1870); ‘‘ Ballads and Sonnets” (1881). 
Edited The Germ. For Biography, see 
William Sharp’s “1. G. Rossetti” 
ΤᾺ and Joseph Knight’s ‘‘Life’’ 


1887). See also Stedman’s ‘‘ Victorian 
Poets,’ Swinburne’s ‘‘ Essays and 
Studies,’ and Forman’s ‘Living 


Poets,’ and W. M. Rossetti’s “Ὁ. G. 
Rosetti as Designer and Writer ’’ (1889). 


Rossetti, Maria Francesca (Ὁ. 
London, February 17th, 1827; d. No- 
vember 24th, 1876). ‘‘ The Shadow of 
Dante ’’ (1871), ete. 


Rossetti 


1410 


Russell 


Rossetti, William Michael (b. | Architecture and Painting’? (1854) ; 


London, about 1832). ‘‘ Dante’s Hell, 
Translated”? (1865); ‘‘ Criticisms on 
Swinburne’s Poems and Ballads”’ (1866); 
“Fine Art: chiefly Contemporary No- 
tices’? (1867); ‘‘Memoir of Percy 
Bysshe Shelley ”’ (1886); ‘‘ Life of John 
Keats ’’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Dante Gabriel Rossetti 
as Designer and Writer’’ (1889). Has 
edited Blake’s ‘‘ Poems,’’? with ‘* Me- 
moir’’ (1866); Walt Whitman’s ‘‘ Poems”’ 
(1868); Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s ‘* Po- 
etical Works ’’ (1886); and Moxon’s 
‘* Poets, with Short Biographies,”’ etc. 


Rowbotham, John Frederick (b. 
1854). “Α History of Music’ (1885-87) ; 
“ΤῊ 6 Death of Roland ’’ (1887); ‘* The 
Human Epic” (1890); ‘‘ Private Life of 
the Great Composers ’’ (1892) ; ‘* History 
of Rossal School’’ (1894); ** The Trou- 
badours and the Courts of Love” (1895). 


Rowe, Nicholas (b. Little Barford, 
Bedfordshire, 1673; d. December 6th, 
1718). ‘*'The Ambitious Stepmother ἢ 
(1700); ‘* Tamerlane ’’ (1702) ; ** The Fair 
Penitent ᾽ (1703); ‘‘ The Biter ”’ (1705) ; 
“Ulysses’’ (1707); ‘* The Royal Convert’”’ 
(1708); ‘‘Jane Shore’”’ (1713); ‘‘ Lady 
Jane Grey” (1715), and other works 
printed with the Plays. His edition 
of Shakespeare appeared in 1709, his 
translation of Lucan’s ‘‘ Pharsalia’’ in 
1718. 


Rowley, William (of uncertain date). 
“The Travailes of the English Brothers” 
(1607) ; with John Day, ‘‘ A Fair Quar- 
rel’? (1617); with J. Middleton, ‘‘A 
New Wonder, a Woman Never Vext’’ 
(1632); ‘* All’s Lost by Lust’? (1633) ; 
“Α΄ Match at Midnight’? (1633); “Α 
Shoemaker a Gentleman ἡ (1638) ; ‘* The 
Birth of Merlin’’ (1662); ‘‘The Fool 
without Book;’’ ‘‘ A Knave in Print; 
or, One for Another;’’ ‘‘The None- 
Such;’’ ‘‘The Booke of the Four 
Honoured Loves ;’’ *‘ The Parliament of 
Love.’? Rowley also wrote a pamphlet, 
“A Search for Money’ (1609), and 
collaborated with Massinger, Middleton, 
etc., in several other plays. 


Ruskin, John, LL.D. (b. London, 
February, 1819).  ‘‘Salsette and Ele- 
Ea a Poem’ (1839); ‘* Modern 

ainters’’ (1843-1860); ‘‘The Seven 
Lamps of Architecture ’’ (1849); ‘‘ Pre- 
Raphaelism ’’ (1850); ‘‘The Stones of 
Venice’? (1851-53); ‘‘ Notes on the 
Construction of Sheepfolds’? (1851) ; 
““The King of Golden River’’ (1851) ; 
“Notes on the Academy’’ (1853-60) ; 
‘‘The Two Paths ᾽ (1854) ; ‘‘ Lectures on 


‘The Opening of the Crystal Palace”’ 
(1854); “Οἱ -the Nature of Gothic 
Architecture ’’ (1854); “ Giotto and His 
Works”? (1855); ‘* The Harbours of 
England ᾽ (1856) ; ‘‘ Notes on the Turner 
Collection’? (1857); ‘*The Political 
Economy of Art’’ (1858); ‘The Cam- 
bridge School of Art’? (1858); ‘‘ Ele- 
ments of Perspective ’’ (1859); ** Decora- 
tion and Manufacture ’’ (1859); ‘* Unto 
this Last ’’ (1862) ; ‘* Ethics of the Dust ᾽ἢ 
(1865); ‘Sesame and Lilies”? (1865) ; 
“The Study of Architecture im Our 
Schools’ (1865); ** The Crown of Wild 
Olive ’’ (1866); “ Time and Tide by Wear 
and Tyne ’’ (1868); ‘‘ The Queen of the 
Air: the Greek Myths of Cloud and 
Storm’’ (1869); ‘Lectures on Art”’ 
(1870) ; “ tra Pentelici ;”’ ‘‘ The Ele- 
ments of Sculpture’? (1872); ‘The 
Eagle’s Nest”’ (1872); ‘‘ Michael Angelo 
and Tintoret’’ (1872) ; ‘‘ Ariadne Floren- 
tina ’’ (1872); ‘* Love’s Meinie’’ (1873) ; 
‘*Val d’Arno”’ (1874); ‘‘ Proserpina”’ 
(1875-76); ‘*Frondes Agrestes: Read- 
ings in Modern Painters’? (1879); 
** Deucalion’’ (1876); ‘* Mornings in 
Florence’ (1877); ‘‘ The Laws of Fesole’’ 
(1877) ; edition of Xenophon’s ὁ Econo- 
mics,’’ and ‘* Notes on the Turner Collec- 
tion ᾽᾽ (1878); ‘‘ Annotated Catalogue of 
the Works of Hunt and Prout’? (1879) ; 
‘*The Lord’s Prayer and the Church ”’ 
(1880) ; ‘Fors Clavigera;’’ ‘‘ Elements of 
English Prosody’’ (1880); ‘‘ Arrows of 
the Chace’’ (1880); ‘‘ Fiction Fair and 
Foul’’ (1880); ‘‘ Lectures on the Art of 
England”’ (1883); ‘‘The Pleasures of 
England’? (1884); ‘‘ Sir Herbert Ed- 
wards ᾽ (1885) ; ‘* Praeterita ’’ (1885-87) ; 
“ Hortus Inclusus’’ (1887); ‘* Poems’’ 
(1891) ; ‘‘ The Poetry of Architecture ”’ 
1892); ‘* Verona, and Other Lectures ᾽ἢ 
(1894). The following volumes of his 
letters have appeared :—‘‘ Stray Letters 
from Professor Ruskin to a Bibliophile ”’ 
(1892); ‘Letters... to Various Corre- 
spondents ’’ (1892); ‘‘ Letters . . . to 
William Ward ᾽ (1893) ; ‘‘ Three Letters 
and an Essay on Literature’? (1893) ; 
“‘ Letters Addressed to a College Friend ”’ 
(1894) ; ‘Letters to Ernest Chesneau ”” 
(1894), ‘* Bibliography of Ruskin,” by 
Shepherd (1878); ‘‘ Selections from the 
Writings of Ruskin”’ (1871). See W. G. 
Collingwood’s ‘‘ Art ‘Teaching of John 
Ruskin ᾽ (1891) ; and ‘“‘ Life ’’ (1893), ete. 


Russell, William Clark (b. New 
York, February 24th, 1844. ‘‘ John 
Holdsworth’? (1874); ‘‘The Wreck of 
the Grosvenor , “ΑΔ Sailor’s Sweet- 


Russell 


1411 


Sayce 


heart’’ (1880); ‘‘An Ocean Free Lance ”’ 
1881); ‘‘ The Lady Maud” (1882); “Α 

ea Queen” (1883); ‘‘ Sailors’? Lan- 
guage”’ (1883); ‘‘ On the Fo’k’sle Head”’ 
1884) ; ‘‘ Jack’s Courtship ᾽᾽ (1884) ; “A 
Strange Voyage ”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ A Voyage to 
the Cape ’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ The Golden Hope”’ 
(1887); ‘‘The Frozen Pirate’ (1887) ; 
“The Death Ship’’ (1888); ‘‘ William 
Dampier: a Biography’’ (1889); ‘‘ Be- 
twixt the Forelands: Essays’? (1889) ; 
“Marooned”? (1889); ‘An Ocean 
Tragedy’? (1890); ‘*My Shipmate 
Louise’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Horatio Nelson,’’ in 
collaboration (1890) ; ‘‘ Collingwood,”’ a 
biography (1891); ‘‘ My Danish Sweet- 
heart’? (1891); ‘* Master Rockafellar’s 
Voyage ’’ (1891); ‘‘ A Marriage at Sea’”’ 
(1891); ‘‘ Mrs. Dines’ Jewels’’ (1892); 
** Alone on a Wide, Wide Sea ’”’ (1892) ; 
“A Strange Elopement ”’ (1892) ; ““ List, 
NE Landsmen”’ (1893); ‘¢ The Emigrant 
Ship ’’ (1893); ‘‘ The Convict Ship”’ 
(1893); ‘‘The Tragedy of Ida Noble ”’ 
(1893); ‘*The Phantom Death,” etc. 
(1895), ete. 


Russell, Sir Wiiliam Howard, 
Knt., LL.D. (Ὁ. Lilyvale, co. Dublin, 
March 28th, 1821). ‘‘ Rifle Clubs and 
Volunteer Corps’’ (1859); ‘‘My Diary 
in India” (1860); ‘‘My Diary North 
and South’’ (1863); ‘‘ Canada: Its De- 
fences ”’ ee ““The Adventures of 
Dr. Brady’’ (1868); ‘‘ Diary in the 
East,”’ ee (1869) ; “My Diary During 
the last Great War” (1870); * The 
Prince of Wales’s Tour’ [in India] 
(1877); ‘‘ The Crimea, 1854-55”? (1881); 
‘* Hesperothen’’ (1882); ‘‘A Visit to 
Chile,’’ etc. (1890); ‘‘The Great War 
with Russia ’’ (1895), ete. 


5 


Sackville, Thomas, Earl of Dorset, 
and Lord Buckhurst (b. Buckhurst, 
Sussex, 1536; d. London, April 19th, 


1608). ‘‘The Induction”? to ‘The 
Mirror for Magistrates’? and (with 
Thomas Norton) ‘‘ The Tragedy of Gor- 


bodue.’’ See Wood’s ‘* Athenze Oxonien- 
ses,’’ also Cooper’s ‘‘ Athenze Cantabrigi- 
enses,’’ and Lloyd’s ‘‘ Worthies.’’ Works 
in 1859. 


Saintsbury, George Edward 
Bateman (Ὁ. Se aeipion: October 
23rd, 1845). ‘* Primer of French Litera- 
ture” (1880) ; ‘‘ Dryden ’”’ (1881); “Α 
Short History of French Literature "ἢ 
(1882) ; 


“‘ Marlborough”’ (1885) ; ‘‘ Man- | 


chester ’’ (1887) ; ‘‘A History of Eliza- 
bethan Literature” (1887) ; ‘‘ Essays on 
French Novelists ’’ (1891) ; ᾿ς Miscellane- 
ous Essays’? (1892); ‘ The Earl of 
Derby ”’ (1892); ‘ Corrected Impres- 
sions’ (1895). Has edited Herrick’s 
and Fielding’s Works, etc. 


Sala, George Augustus (b. London, 
November 24th, 1828). ‘The Seven 
Sons of Mammon ; ἢ “Captain Dan- 
gerous;”’ ‘‘ Quite Alone;’’ ‘“‘The Two 
Prima Donnas, and other Stories;”’ 
““Twice Round the Clock’? (1859); 
‘‘Breakfast in Bed,’’ ‘ Gaslight and 
peynet, > “Under the Sun,”’ and other 


essays ; besides ‘‘ America in the Midst 
of the War “Two Kings and a 
Kaiser,” ‘‘A Journey due North,’’ 


“* Dutch Pictures,’’ ‘‘ From Waterloo to 
the Peninsula,’ ‘‘ Rome and Venice,”’ 
“ William Hogarth,’ ‘‘ Paris Herself 
Again ’”’ (1879) ; ‘‘ America Revisited ”’ 
(1882) ; ‘* A Journey due South ”’ (1885) ; 
“Right Round the World’ (1887) ; 
““Things I have Seen and People I have 
Known”? (1894) ; ‘‘ London Up to Date”’ 
(1894) ; ‘‘The Life and Adventures of 
G. A. Sala’’ (1895). First editor of 
Temple Bar, founder of Sala’s Jowrnal, 
and for many years a contributor to the 
Daily Telegraph and Illustrated London 
News, to which latter he contributed the 
well-known ‘‘ Echoes of the Week.”’ 


Sanday, Professor William, D.D., 
LL.D. (b. Holme Pierrepoint, August Ist, 
1843). ‘Authorship and Historical Cha- 
racter of the Fourth Gospel’? (1872); 
“The Gospels in the Second Century ἢ 
(1876) ; ‘‘ The Oracles of God”’ (1891) ; 
“Inspiration ’’ (1893), etc. Joint editor 
of ‘* Old Latin Biblical Texts.”’ 


Savage, Richard (b. London, Jan- 
uary 10th, 1698; d. Bristol, July 31st, 
1743). ‘‘ Love in a Veil ”’ (1718) ; ‘‘ The 
Bastard’? (1728); ‘‘ The Wanderer ᾽ἢ 
(1729), ete. See Johnson’s ‘‘ Lives of 
the Poets.’”’ Works collected in 1775. 


Sayce, Prefessor Archibald Henry, 
D.D., LL.D. (Ὁ. Shirehampton, near 
Bristol, September 25th, 1846). ‘* Baby- 
lonian Literature ᾽᾽ (1877); ‘‘ Fresh Light 
from the Monuments’’ (1883); ‘‘ The 
Ancient Empires of the East’’ (1884) ; 
‘‘ Assyria, its Princes, Priests, and 
People” (1885) ; ** Religion of the An- 
cient Babylonians”? (1887) ; “The Hit- 
tites ’? (1888) ; ‘* The ‘ Higher Criticism’ 
and the Verdict of the Monuments” 
(1893); ‘*Social Life Among the As- 
syrians and Babylonians” (1893) ; 
Works on Philology, ete. ᾿ 


Schreiner 


Schreiner, Olive, now Mrs. Cron- 
wright (b. Cape Town). ‘‘ The Story of 
an African Farm’’ (1891); ‘‘ Dreams”’ 
(1893). 

Scott, Thomas (Ὁ. Braytoft, Spilsby, 
Lincolnshire, February 16th, 1747; d 
Aston Sandford, Buckinghamshire, April 
16th, 1821). ‘‘ Essays on the Most Im- 
portant Subjects of Religion’’ (1793); 
‘*Sermons on Select Subjects’”’ 17969: 
a ‘‘ Commentary ’’ on the Bible (1796) ; 
‘* Vindication of the Inspiration of Scrip- 
ture” (1796); ‘‘The Force of Truth’’ 
(1799); ‘* Remarks on the Refutation of 
Calvinism by G, Tomline, Bishop of 
Carlisle ’’ (1812); and ‘‘ A Collection of 
the Quotations from the Old Testament 
in the New,” in Zhe Christian Observer 
for 1810 and 1811. Works, edited by his 
son, in 1823-5; Life and his ‘‘ Letters 
and Papers, with Observations,’’ in 1824. 


Scott, Sir Walter (b. Edinburgh, 
August 15th, 1771; ἃ. Abbotsford, Sep- 
tember 2I]st, 1832). Translation of 
Biirger’s ‘‘ Ballads’ (1796) ; a version of 
Goethe’s ‘*Goetz von Berlichingen”’ 
(1799) ; ‘* The Eve of St. John,” ‘‘ Glen- 
finlas,’’ and ‘‘The Grey Brothers ”’ 
(1800); ‘*'The Minstrelsy of the Scottish 
Border” (1802-3); ‘The Lay of the 
Last Minstrel’? (1805); ‘‘ Ballads and 
Lyrical Pieces’? (1806); ‘* Marmion ”’ 
(1808) ; ‘* The Lady of the Lake ”’ (1810) ; 
‘The Vision of Don Roderick”’ (1811) ; 
‘Rokeby”’’ (1812); ‘‘The Bridal of 
Triermain”’ (1813) ; ‘‘Waverley’’ (1814); 
““The Lord of the Isles’? (1815); ‘‘ The 
Field of Waterloo ”’ (1815); ‘‘ Guy Man- 
nering ”’ (1815) ; “Paul’s Letters to his 
Kinsfolk’’ (1815); ‘*The Antiquary ”’ 

1816) ; ““ Old Mortality ’’ (1816) ; ‘‘ The 
lack Dwarf” (1816); ‘‘ Harold the 
Dauntless ’’ (1817) ; ‘‘ Rob Roy ”’ (1817); 


“The Heart of Midlothian’’ (1818); 
‘“‘The Bride of Lammermoor”’ (1819); 
“The Legend of Montrose’’ (1819) ; 


“Tvanhoe’’ (1819); ‘‘ The Monastery ”’ 
(1820); ‘‘ The Abbot ’’ (1820); ‘‘ Kenil- 
worth ’’ (1821); ‘‘ The Pirate’? (1821); 
“The Fortunes of Nigel’? (1822) ; 
“‘Halidon Hill’’ (1822); ‘ Peveril of 
the Peak ”’ (1822); ‘‘ Quentin Durward ”’ 
(1823); “50. Ronan’s Well’? (1823); 
“* Redgauntlet ’? (1824); ‘‘ The Be- 
trothed’’ (1825); ‘‘ The Talisman ᾽ἢ 
(1825) ; “‘ Lives of the Novelists ᾽ (1825) ; 
‘Woodstock’? (1826); ‘‘The Life of 
Napoleon”’ (1827) ; ‘‘ The Two Drovers ᾽ἢ 
(1827) ; ‘‘ The Highland Widow ” (1827); 
““The Surgeon’s Daughter’? (1827); 
“Tales of a Grandfather’’ (1897-308: 
“The Fair Maid of Perth’’ (1828); 


1412 


Seeley 


‘Anne of Geierstein’’ (1829); ‘‘ Letters 
on Demonology and Witchcraft ᾽ (1830) ; 
a “History of Scotland’? (1829-30) ; 
“The Doom of Devorgoil ’’ (1830) ; ‘* Au- 
chindrane ” (1830); ‘**‘Count Robert of 
Paris ’’ (1831) ; and ‘‘ Castle Dangerous ”’ 
1851); besides editions of Dryden 
1808), Swift (1814), Strutt’s “ Queenhoo 

all’ (1808), Carleton’s ‘‘ Memoirs of 
the War of the Spanish Succession ᾽ἢ 
(1808) ; ‘‘ Memoirs of the Earl of Mon- 
mouth’? (1808); ‘‘ Original Memoirs 
written during the Great Civil Wars,” 
‘“The State Papers and Letters of Sir 
Ralph Sadler’’ (1809); ‘‘ The Somers 
Tracts ’’ (1809-15), and ‘‘ Paul’s Letters 
to his Kinsfolk”’ (1815) ; “" Border Anti- 
quities of Scotland ᾽ (1818); ‘* Letters of 
Malachi Malagrowther ” (1826); and ‘‘ Sir 
Tristram,’’ a romance (1804). For Bio- 
graphy, see Life by Lockhart (1837-39), 
Gilfillan (1870), Rossetti (1870), Chambers 
(1871), Hutton (1878), and Yonge, ete. See 
Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Spirit of the Age,’’ Jeffrey’s 
‘*Essays,’’ Keble’s ‘‘ Occasional Papers,’’ 
Carlyle’s ‘‘ Essays,’’ Senior’s ‘ Essays 
on Fiction,’’ Masson’s “Ἢ Novelists and 
their Styles,’’ Jeaffreson’s ‘‘ Novels and 
Novelists,’ Taine’s ‘‘ English Litera- 
ture,’’ Stephen’s ‘‘ Hours in a Library,” 
Mortimer Collins’s Introduction to the 
Miniature Edition of the Poems, and F. 
T. Palgrave’s preface to the Globe Edi- 
tion. See also ‘‘Scott Dictionary,’’ by 
Mary Rogers, New York (1879), and 
Canning’s “ἢ Philosophy of the Waverley 
Novels.”’ 


Scrivener, Rev. Frederick Henry 
Ambrose, LL.D., D.C.L. (b. Bermond- 
sey, September 29th, 1813; d. November 
2nd, 1891). ‘‘ Supplement to the Au- 
thorised English δῖοι of the New 
Testament’’ (1845), only one volume pub- 
lished ; ‘‘ Plain Introduction to the Cri- 
ticism of the New Testament ’’ (1861) ; 
“Six Lectures on the Text of the New 
Testament’? (1874). 


Sedley, Sir Charles (b. 1639; d. 
1701). ‘* The Mulberry Garden”? (1668) ; 
‘* Antony and Cleopatra ’’ (1677) ; ‘‘ Bel- 
lamira’’ (1687); ‘‘ Beauty the Con- 
queror ; or, the Death of Mark Antony ” 

1702) ; ‘‘ The Grumbler”’ (1702) ; ‘‘ The 

yrant King of Crete ’’ (1702), All the 
above are dramatic. His complete 
works, including his plays, poems, songs, 
etc., were published in 1702. 


Seeley, Sir John Robert, K.C.M.G. 
(b. 1834; ἃ. January 13th, 1895). ‘Ecce 
Homo”’ (1866); ‘‘ Livy,” bk. 1 (1866) ; 
“‘TLectures and Essays” (1870); ‘‘ Life 
and Times of Stein ”’ (1879); ‘‘ Natural 


Selden 


1413 


Shakespeare 


Religion ’’ (1882); ‘‘ The Expansion of 
England ” (1883) ; ‘‘ A Short History of 
Napoleon ”’ (1886); ‘‘Our Colonial Ex- 
pansion ”’ (1887). 


Selden, John (b. Salvington, Sussex, 
September 16th, 1584; d. London, Nov- 
ember 30th, 1654), ‘‘ England’s Epino- 
mis”’ (1610); ‘‘ Jani Anglorum facies 
altera”’ (1610); ‘‘ The Duello; or, Single 
Combat’? (1610); Notes to Drayton’s 
‘**Polyolbion ” (1613); ‘* Titles of Hon- 
our’’ (1614); ‘‘ Analecton Anglo-Britan- 
nicon ’’ (1615) ; ‘‘ De Diis Syris ”’ (1617) ; 
‘“‘The History of Tithes’’ (1618) ; 
“*Marmora Arundelliana ’’ (1628); ‘‘ De 
Successionibus” (1631); ‘‘ Mare Clau- 
sum’? (1635); ‘*De Jure Naturali et 
Gentium juxta Disciplinam Hebreorum” 
(1640); ‘‘ Table Talk ”’ (1689). See the 
Lives by Wilkins (1726), Aikin (1811), 
and Johnson (1835); also Hannay’s 
κε Essays from The Quarterly.” 


Senior, Nassau William (b. 1790; 
ἃ. 1864). ‘*‘ An Outline of the Science of 
Political Economy ᾽" (1836) ; ‘‘ A Journal 
kept in Turkey and Greece’ (1859); 
“ Suggestions on Popular Education ”’ 
(1861) ; ** Biographical Sketches ”’ (1863); 
ΚΕ Bssays on Fiction ’’ (1864) ; ““ Histori- 
cal and Philosophical Essays’’ (1865) ; 
‘Conversations with Thiers, Guizot, 
and other Distinguished Persons during 
the Second Empire ”’ (1878). 


Shaftesbury, Earl of, Anthony 
Ashley Cooper (b. London, February 
26th, 1671; d. Naples, February 15th, 
1713). ‘Inquiry Concerning Virtue ”’ 
(16)1); ‘‘ An Inquiry concerning Virtue 
or Merit ’’ (1699) ; ‘‘ A Letter concerning 
Enthusiasm ’’ (1708); ‘‘Sensus Com- 
munis ”’ (1709); ‘‘ Moralists: a Philo- 
sophical Rhapsody” (1709); ‘‘ Soliloquy ; 
or, Advice to an Author’? (1710); 
‘‘ Miscellaneous Reflections’? (1714) ; 
forming the seven treatises of his ‘‘ Char- 
acteristics of Men, Manners, Opinions, 
and Times”? (1711); ‘‘The Judgment 
of Hercules’’ (1713). He also wrote 
‘“‘Several Letters by a Noble Lord 
to a Young Man at the University” 
(1716) ; and ‘‘ Letters to Robert Moles- 
worth, Esq., with Two Letters to Sir 
John Cropley’’ (1721). See Gizycki’s 
‘Philosophie Shaftesburys’’ (Leip. ,1876). 


Shakespeare, William (b. Strat- 
ford-upon-Avon, 1564; d. Stratford, 
April 26th, 1616). Furnivall’s order :-— 
First Preriop: (Ὁ 1588-94): ‘* Love’s 
Labour’s Lost”’ (Ὁ 1588-9); ‘‘ The Comedy 
of Errors’? (Ὁ 1589); ‘‘ A Midsummer 
Night’s Dream” (Ὁ 1590-1) ; ‘“‘ Two Gen- 


tlemen of Verona” (? 1590-1) ; ‘‘ Romeo 
and Juliet”? (1591-3); ‘‘ Venus and 
Adonis ”’ (1593) ; ‘‘ The Rape of Lucrece ᾽ἢ 


(1593-4) ; ‘* The Passionate Pilgrim ”’ 
(Ὁ 1589-99); ‘‘Richard II.’’ (? 1593); 
2 eo. soeennyy IVA {5 100. Ξ 
“Richard 111. (? 1594). SECOND 


Prriop (? 1595-1601): ‘‘ King John”’ 
? 1595); ‘*The Merchant of Venice’’ 
Ὁ 1596); ‘* The Taming of the Shrew ”’ 
Ὁ 1596-7); 1‘‘Henry IV.’’ (1596-7); 
2 “Henry IV.”’ (1597-8); ‘‘The Merry 
Wives of Windsor’’ (1598-9) ; ‘‘ Henry 
V.”’ (1599) ; ‘*‘ Much Ado about Nothing ”’ 
(1599-1600) ; ** As You Like 10 (1600) ; 
“Twelfth Night’? (1601); ‘‘ All’s Well 
that Ends Well’’ (1601-2); ‘‘ Sonnets ”’ 
(? 1592-1608). Tuirp Perrtop (1601- 
1608): ‘‘ Julius Cesar ’’ (1601); ‘‘ Ham- 
let’ (1602-3) ; ‘‘ Measure for Measure ᾽ἢ 
? 1603); ‘*‘ Othello”’ (Ὁ 1604); ‘‘ Macbeth”’ 
1605-6); ‘* King lLear’’ (1605-6) ; 
“Troilus and Cressida’’ (Ὁ 1606-7) ; 
“Antony and Cleopatra” (? 1606-7); 
“‘Coriolanus’’ (? 1607-8); ‘* Timon of 
Athens”’ (ἢ 1607-8), FourtH PERIOD 
(1609-1613) : ‘* Pericles ’’ (1608-9) ; ‘‘ The 
Tempest’? (1609-10); ““ Cymbeline ”’ 
(Ὁ 1610); ‘“‘ The Winter’s Tale’’ (1611), 
‘Henry VIII.’’ (1612-13).  Shake- 
speare’s name has also been more or less 
connected with ‘‘ Arden of Feversham”? 
(1592); ‘*The Two Noble Kinsmen”’ 
(before 1616); ‘‘ A Lover’s Complaint ”’ 
(1609) ; ‘‘Sir Thomas More’’ (written 
about 1590); ‘‘Sir John Oldcastle ”’ 
(1000); ‘‘ The Passionate Pilgrim ”’ 
(1599) ; ““ Titus Andronicus ”’ (1594) ; 
*¢Kdward III.’ (1596); and ‘‘ A York- 
shire Tragedy’’ (1608). First folio, 
1623; third, 1664. The leading editions 
by Rowe (1709), Pope (1725), Theobald 

(1733), Hanmer (1744-6), Warbunton 
1747), Blair (1743), Johnson (1765), 
apell (1767-8), Johnson and Steevens 

(1773), Bell (the Stage Edition, 1774), 

Ayscough (1784), Nichols (1786-90), 

Malone (1790), Boydell (1802), Johnson, 

Steevens, and Reed (1803), Chalmers, 

the Cambridge Edition (1805), Bowd- 

ler (the ‘‘ Family ’’ Edition, 1818), Har- 
ness (1825), Singer (1826), Campbell 

(1838), Knight (1838-43), Proctor (1839- 
43), Collier (1841), Hazlitt (1851), Halli- 

well-Phillipps (1851-53), Hudson (1852- 
57), Collier (1853), Halliwell - Phillipps 

(1853-61), Lloyd (1856), Dyce (1857), 
Grant- White (1857-60), Staunton (1858- 
60), Mary Cowden Clarke (1860), Car- 

ruthers and Chambers (1861), Clark 

and Wright (‘‘ Globe”’ Edition, 1863-66, 

and Clarendon Press Select Plays), Dyce 

(1866-68), Keightley (1867), Hunter (sep-" 


Shakespeare 


arate plays, 1869-73), Moberly (separate 
plays, 1872-73), Bell (1875), and Delius 
oon Furnivall(‘‘ Leopold”? Edition, 1877). 
The Biographies of Shakespeare, besides 
those contained in the above-mentioned 
editions, are by :—Gentleman (1774), 
Wheler (1806), Britton (1814) Drake 
(1817 and 1828), Skottowe (1824), Wheeler 
(1824), Moncreiff (1824), roth eee 
Symmonds (1826), Neill (1861), Fullom 
(1861), and Kenney (1864). For foreign 
Biography, sce Guizot, ‘* Shakespeare ”’ 
(1841), Delius, ‘‘Der Mythus von 
William Shakespeare’’ (Bonn, 1851) 
and Grant-White (Boston, U.S., 1865). 
For Criticism, see, in addition to the 
above editions and biographies, Abbot’s 
ἐς Shakespearian Grammar,’ Bathurst’s 
ἐς Shakespeare’s Versification,’”’? T. 8. 
Baynes’ ‘‘ Shakespeare Studies,’’ Brown’s 
‘*Sonnets of Shakespeare,’? Bucknill’s 
“ Mad Folk of Shakespeare,’’ 8. T. Cole- 
ridge’s ‘‘ Literary Remains” and ‘‘ Bio- 
graphia Literaria,’’ Hartley Coleridge’s 
**Notesand Marginalia,” Cohn’s ‘‘ Shake- 
speare in Germany,’’ Courtenay’s ** Com- 
mentaries on Shakespeare,’ Craik’s 
‘* English of Shakespeare,’’ De Quincey’s 
“Ὁ Essays,’ Douce’s ‘‘ Illustrations of 
Shakespeare,’’ Dowden’s ‘* Mind and Art 
of Shakspere,’’ and ‘‘ Introduction to 
Shakespeare,’’ Farmer’s ‘‘ Learning of 
Shakespeare,’’? Fletcher’s ‘‘ Studies of 
Shakespeare,’’ Hallam’s ‘‘ Literary His- 
tory,’’ Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Characters of Shake- 
spear’s Plays,’’ ‘‘ English Poets,’”’ and 
‘Comic Writers,’’ Heraud’s ‘‘ Inner Life 
of Shakspere,’’ Leigh Hunt's ‘‘ Imagina- 
tion and Fancy,’’ Hudson’s “ Art and 
Characters of Shakespeare,’ Ingleby’s 
“Complete View of the Shakespearian 
Controversy” (1861), Ingram (in ‘‘ Dublin 
Afternoon Lectures,’’ 1863), Jameson’s 
“Characteristics of Shakespeare’s Wo- 
men,’’ Lamb’s ‘‘ Works,’’ Langbaine’s 
‘“‘Dramatick Poets,” Lowell’s‘‘Amongmy 
Books,” Maginn’s ‘‘Shakespeare Papers,” 
Massey’s ‘‘Shakspeare’s Sonnets and 
his Private Friends,’’ Mrs. Montagu’s 
‘‘Genius of Shakespeare,’’ Richardson’s 
“Ὁ Essays on Shakespeare’s Characters,”’ 
Reed's ‘‘ Lectures,’’ Rushton’s ‘‘ Shak- 
speare’s Euphuism’”’ and ‘‘ Shakspeare 
a Lawyer,’’ Ruskin (in ‘‘ Dublin After- 
noon Lectures,’’ 1869), Simpson’s 
‘¢ Philosophy of Shakespeare’s Sonnets,” 
Walker’s ‘‘ Versification of Shake- 
speare,’? Wordsworth’s ‘‘ Shakespeare’s 
Knowledge and Use of the Bible,’ 
etc. See also French’s ‘‘Shakespeareana 
Genealogica’’ (1869), Friswell’s ‘‘ Life 
Portraits of Shakespeare,” Green’s 
~“«Shakespere and the Emblem Writers,” 


1414 


_ Shelley 


= — 


Ingleby’s ‘‘ Shakspere Allusion Books,”’ 
and his ‘‘Shakspere, the Man and the 
Book ”’ (1877), W. C. Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Shake- - 
speare Jest Books ’’ and ‘‘Shakespeare’s 
Library,’’ Mrs. Cowden Clarke’s ‘‘ Con- 
cordance to Shakespeare,’ Schmidt's 
“ἢ Shakespeare Lexicon,’’ John Bart- 
lett’s ‘‘ Concordance,’’ and the various 

ublications of the Shakespeare and 
New Shakespeare Societies, ete. Among 
foreign authorities on Shakespeare may 
be mentioned the biographies by Moratin 
(Spanish, 1795), and Buchon (Dutch, 
1824). France has yielded, besides the 
Lives by Hugo, Guizot (1821), Villemain 
(1840), Pichot (1841), and Chasles (1851), 
Taine’s ‘‘ History of English Literature,’’ 
Mezitre’s ‘‘ Shakespeare, ses GSuvres et 
ses Critiques,’’ Lacroix’s ‘‘ Influence de 
Shakspeare sur le Théatre Frangais,”’ 
and Reymond’s ‘‘ Corneille, Shakespeare, 
et Goethe.’”’ From Germany we have 
Goethe's ‘‘Shakespeare und Kein Ende,” 
the ‘Shakespeare Jahrbuch,’’ Gervinus’s 
“ε Commentaries,’’ Schlegel’s ‘‘ Dramatic 
Art and Literature,’’ Ulrici’s “ἢ Dramatic 
Art of Shakespeare,’’ Friesen’s “ Alt- 
england und William Shakespeare,’’ 
Hebler’s ‘‘ Aufsatze ΡΟΣ Shakespeare,’’ 
Tschischwitz’ ‘‘ Shakespeare - Forsch- 
ungen,’’ Benedix’s ‘‘ Die Shakespearo- 
manie,’’ Ludwig’s ‘‘ Shakespeare-Stu- 
dien,’’ Rotscher’s ‘‘Shakespeare in 
seinen hodchsten Charaktergebilden,’’ 
Riimelin’s ‘* Shakespeare - Studien,’’ 
Kreyssig’s ‘« Shakspeare - Fragen,’’ 
Hertzberg’s ‘‘Shakespeare’s Drama- 
tische Werke,’’ Vehse’s ‘‘ Shakespeare 
als Protestant, Politiker, Psycholog, und 
Dichter,’’ Flathe’s ‘‘ Shakspeare in seiner 
Wirklichkeit,’’ Delius’s ‘‘ Der Mythus 
von W. Shakespeare,’’ Simrock’s ‘‘ Die 
Quellen des Shakespeare,’’? Ten Brink’s 
Lectures, and the ‘‘ Jahrbuch der Deut- 
schen Shakespeare Gesellschaft.’? For 
further particulars as to the various 
editions, and as to the dates of the plays, 
etc., sce Professor Hall Griffin’s Bibli- 
ography at the end of vol. xi. of Morley’s 
“ English Writers.” 


Shaw, George Bernard (b. Dublin, 
1856). ‘*An Unsocial Socialist ’’ (1887) ; 
ἐς Cashel Byron’s Profession ;’’ ‘‘ Quint- 
essence of Ibsenism”’ (1891); ‘‘Widower’s 
Houses”? (1893). Editor of and con- 
tributor to ‘‘ Fabian Essays in Social- 
ism’’ (1839). 

Shelley, Mrs. Mary (b. 1797; d. 
1851). ‘* Frankenstein” (1818) ; ‘* Val- 
perga ” (1823); ‘‘ The Last Man” (1824); 
ἐς Perkin Warbeck ” (1830) ; ‘‘ Lodore ἢ 
(1835) ; ‘‘ Falkner” (1837) ; and “‘ Ram- 


Shelley , 


1415 


Shirley 


-bles in Germany and Italy” (1844). 
Edited her husband’s ‘ Poems,” with 
biographical notes, in 1839. 

Shelley, Percy Bysshe (b. Field 
Place, Sussex, August 4th, 1792; d. Gulf 
of Spezzia, July 8th, 1822). ‘‘ Zas- 
trozzi” (1809) ; the greater part of ‘‘ Ori- 
ginal Poetry by Victor and Cazire ” 
(1810); part of ‘‘ Posthumous Frag- 
ments of Margaret Nicholson ;” ‘‘'The 
Necessity of Atheism; ” ‘‘ Queen Mab” 
(1813); ‘‘ Alastor; or, the Spirit of Soli- 
tude” (1816) ; ‘St. nvyne” (1818); ‘The 
Revolt of Islam” (1818); ““ Rosalind and 
Helen” (1818) ; ‘‘ Julian and Maddalo ” 
(85): “ὙΠ δ᾽ iCenci {1819}}; se eter 
Bell the Third’ (1819) ; ‘‘ Gidipus 
Tyrannus: or, Swellfoot the Tyrant” 
(1820) ; ‘‘The Witch of Atlas ” (1820) ; 
“ Epipsychidion ” (1821); ‘‘ Adonais ” 
(1821) ; ‘‘ Prometheus Unbound ” (1821); 
“ Hellas” (1821). See also ‘‘ The Shelley 
Papers”? (about 1815); ‘‘ Remarks on 
Mandeville and Mr. God:win ” (1816); 
‘““The Coliseum” (about 1819); and a 
translation of Spinoza’s ‘ Tractatus 
Theologico-Politicus ’’ (1820); ‘‘ Essays, 
Letters from Abroad, Translations, and 
Fragments,”’? edited by Mrs. Shelley ; 
“The Shelley Memorials,’’ edited by 
Lady Shelley ; and R. Garnett’s ‘‘ Relics 
of Shelley.’’? For Biography, sce Hogg’s 
“Life of Shelley;’’ Trelawney’s ‘‘ Recol- 
lections of the Last Days of Shelley and 
Byron ;’’ Medwin’s ‘‘ Life of Shelley ; ”’ 
articles by T. L. Peacock in Fraser's 
Magazine for 1858 and 1860; Leigh 
Hunt’s ‘‘Autobiography,”’ ‘‘ Correspond- 
ence,’? and ‘‘Lord Byron and some of 
his Contemporaries ;”’ ‘‘ Shelley, by One 
who knew him”? (Thornton Hunt),in 716 
Atlantic Monthly for February, 1863; 
R. Garnett in Macmillaw’s Magazine for 
June, 1860; ‘‘ Shelley and his Writings,”’ 
by C. 5. Middleton; Moore’s ‘‘ Life 
ot Lord Byron;”’’ and the Memoirs by 
W. M. Rossetti, J. Addington Symonds 
(1878), and Barnett Smith (1877), ‘‘ The 
Real Shelley,’ by J. C. Jeaffreson 
(1880), Rossetti’s ‘‘ Memoir of Shelley ”’ 
(1886) ; Dowden’s ‘‘ Life of P. B. Shel- 
ley ” (1886). See the Criticism by A. C. 
Swinburne, in ‘‘ Essays and Studies ;”’ 
by De Quincey, in his ‘‘ Essays,”’ vol. v. ; 
by Professor Masson, in ‘‘ Wordsworth, 
Shelley, Keats, and Other Fssays;”’ 
by R. H. Hutton, in his ‘‘ Essays ;”’ 
and Leigh Hunt’s ‘‘ Imagination and 
Fancy.”’ Best editions of ‘‘ Poems,” 
Buxton Forman’s (1876-77), and Ros- 
setti’s (1878). Prose Works, edited by 
Forman (1880). See also the publications 
of the ‘‘ Shelley Society.” 


- - - 


Shenstone, William (Ὁ. Hales Owen, 
Shropshire, November 18th, 1714; d. 
February 11th, 1763).  ‘‘Poems upon 
Several Occasions ”’ (1737); ‘‘The School- 
mistress ’’ (1737 and 1742) ; ‘‘ Kssays on 
Men and Manners.” ‘ Works’ in 
1764-69. ‘‘ Recollections of some Par- 
ticulars in his Life,’’ by William Seward, 
in 1788. See Gilfillan’s edition of 
“Poems,’’ with ‘‘ Memoir ”’ (1854). 

Sheridan, Richard Brinsley (Ὁ. 
Dublin, December 30th, 1751; d. Lon- 
don, July 7th, 1816). ‘‘'The Rivals” 
(1778); ‘‘St. Patrick’s Day; or, the 
Scheming Lieutenant’? (1775); ‘The 
Duenna”’ (1775); ‘‘The School for 
Scandal”? (1777); ‘‘A Trip to Scar- 
borough (177); <°he Οὐδ. vor, 
a Tragedy Rehearsed”’ (1779); ‘‘ The 
Stranger’? (1798); and _ ‘‘ Pizarro”’ 
(1799). His Dramatic ‘‘ Works,’’ with 
acritical essay by Leigh Hunt, in 1846, 
in Bohn’s Library im 1848, and by 
Browne (1873). ‘' Life,’? by Watkins 
(1817), Thomas Moore (1826), and 
Browne (1873). See 8th of Hazlitt’s 
‘* Lectures on the Comic Writers,” and 
“ Sheridan and his Times ”’ (1859). 


Sherlock, Thomas, Bishop of London 
(b. London, 1678; d. Fulham, July 18th, 
1761). ‘‘The Use and Intent of Pro- 
phecy in the Several Ages of the World” 
(1725): ‘‘The Trial of the Witnesses 
of the Resurrection of Jesus”? (1729) ; 
‘Discourses at the Temple Church” 
(1754). ‘* Works,”’ in 1830. 

Shirley, James (b. London, Septem- 
ber 13th, 1596 ; d. London, October 29th, 
1666). ‘*The Wedding ᾽ (1629); ‘* The 
Grateful Servant ’’ (1620); ‘‘ The Schoole 
of Complement’”’ (1631); ‘‘The Changes” 
(1032); “Δ Contention for Honour 
and Riches”’ (1633) ; ‘‘ The Wittie Faire 
One ᾽ (1633); ‘‘ The Triumph of Peace ἢ 
(1633); ‘‘ The Bird in a Cage”’ (1633); 
“The Night Walkers” (corrected from 
Fletcher, 1633); ‘‘ The Traytor ”’ (1635) ; 
“The Lady of Pleasure ’’ (1637) ; ‘‘ The 
Young Admirall ᾽ (1637); ‘‘ The Ex- 
ample ’’ (1637); ‘‘ Hide Parke’ (1637) ; 
“The Gamester ’’ (1637); ‘The Royal 
Master ’’ (1638); ‘‘ The Duke’s Mistris ”’ 
(1638); ‘‘ The Maide’s Revenge ”’ (1639) ; 
“The Tragedie of Chabot, Admiral of 
France ’’ (1639); “ὙΠῸ Ball’ (1639); 
“The Arcadia’? (1640); “Ὑπὸ Hu- 
morous Courtier’’ (1610); ‘‘ The Op- 
portunitie’”? (1640); ‘St. Patrick for 
Treland ” (1640); ‘‘ Loves Crneltie”’ 
(1640); ‘‘The Constant Maid’ (1640) ; 
“The Coronation (?)’’ (1640); ‘* The 
Triumph of Beautie” (1646); “ The 


Shorthouse . 


Brothers ’’ (1652) ; ‘‘ The Sisters ’’ (1652); 
““The Doubtful Heir’ (1652); ‘‘The 
Imposture’’ (1652); ‘‘The Cardinal’? 
(1652); ‘*The Court Secret’? (1653); 
“Cupid and Death” (1653); ““ The 
General” (1653); ‘‘Love’s Victory” 
(1653); ‘The Politician ”’ 16): 
‘““The Gentlemen of Venice” tes - 
“The Contention of Ajax and Achil- 
les’? (1659); ‘‘ Honoria and Mammon”? 
raf and ““ Andromana ”’ — 
buted to Shirley, 1660). Also, ‘*Eccho; 
or the Infortunate Lovers” (1618); 
“* Narcissus ; or, the Self Lover ”’ ΠΤ : 
“Via ad Latinam Linguam Complanata ” 
(1649) ;’? ** Grammatica Anglo-Latina ”’ 
(1651); ‘* The Rudiments of Grammar”? 
co and ‘“‘An Essay towards an 

niversal and Rational Grammar ”’ 
(1726). ‘‘ Dramatic Works and Poems,” 
with Notes by Gifford, and ‘‘ Life” 
by Dyce, in 1833. See also Morley’s 
“English Writers,’’ vol. xi, 


Shorthouse, Joseph Henry ῳ 
1894). ‘‘ John Inglesant”’ (1880); ‘* The 
Platonism of Wordsworth’ (1881); 
“* Golden Thoughts of Molinos”’ tr 883 : 
“The Little Schoolmaster Mark”? (1883); 
“Sir Percival’? (1886); ‘* A Teacher of 
the Violin,”’ etc. (1888) ; ‘* The Countess 
Eve ’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Blanche, Lady Falaise ”’ 
(1891). 


Sidgwick, Professor Henry, LL.D., 
D.C.L. (Ὁ. Skipton, May 31st, 1838). 
‘* Ethics of Conformity and Subscrip- 
tion ”’ (1870); ‘‘ The Methods of Ethics ”’ 
(1874) ; ‘‘ Principles of Political Econ- 
omy ”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Outlines of the History 
of Ethics”? (1886); ‘‘ Elements of Poli- 
tics ᾽᾽ (1891). 


Sidney, Sir Philip (b. Penshurst, 
Kent, November 29th, 1554; d. Zutphen, 
October 7th, 1586). ‘* The Countess of 
Pembroke’s Arcadia ’’ (1590); ““ Astro- 
phel and Stella ”’ (1591); ‘‘ An Apologie 
for Poetrie’’ (1595); ‘‘ Works,’ edited 
by Gray (1829), and Grosart (1877). His 
“*Correspondence with Hubert Languet”’ 
was translated from the Latin by Pears 
in 1845. See the Biographies by Fulke 
Greville (1652), Zouch (1808), Lloyd 
soe) H. R. Fox-Bourne (1862), and 

. A. Symonds. See also Collins’s 
‘Sidney Papers,’ Walpole’s ‘ Royal 
and Noble Authors,’? Lamb’s prose 
““Works,”’ Hallam’s ‘‘ Literary History,’’ 
Hazlitt’s ‘‘ Age of Elizabeth,’’ Masson’s 
“ English Novelists,’’ ‘‘ Cambridge 
Essays ’’ (1858), and Morley’s ‘English 
Writers,”’ vols. ix., x., and xi. 


Skeat, Rev, Professor Walter 


1416 


Smiles 


Wm.,, Litt.D. (Ὁ. London, November 
21st, 1835). ““ Etymological Dictionary ” 
(1882); ‘* Principles of English Ety- 
mology ’’ (1887 and 1891); ‘ Dictionary 
of Middle English,”’ with A. L. Mayhew 
1888), etc. ; Complete Edition of Chaucer 
1894); also editions of many other 
early writers, and of Chatterton, ete. 


Skelton, John (b. Norfolk, about 
1460 ; ἃ. Westminster, June 21st, 1529). 
‘On the Death of King Edward IV.” 
(1484); ‘*An Elegy on the Death of 
the Earl of Northumberland ᾿" (1489) ; 
** The Niguamansir’’ (1504) ; ‘* A Goodly 
Garland or Chapelet of Laurell ” (1523) ; 
‘*Merie Tales’? (1675) ; ‘‘ Magnifycence;’? 
“The Bouge of Courte;” ‘ Collyn 
Clout ;”’ ‘‘ Phyllyp Sparrowe ;”’ ‘ Why 
come ye not to Courte?” ‘Speake 
Parot;’’ ‘‘Ware the Hawke;”’ ‘The 
Tunning of Elynour Rummying;”’ ‘“‘ The 
Maner of the World Nowadays ;”’ ‘‘Man- 
nerly Mistress Margery ;’’ ‘Speculum 
Principis;”’ ‘‘ Agaynste a comely Coy- 
strowne.”’ ‘ Works,’’ edited by Dyce 
(1843). 


Skelton, John, LL.D., C.B. (b. 
Edinburgh, 1831). ‘* The Impeachment 
of Mary Stuart’’ (1875); ‘The Crookit 
Meg ’’ (1880); ‘‘ Essays in mp ets 
Biography ᾽ (1883) ; ‘* Maitland of Leth- 
ington and the Scotland of Mary 
Stuart ”’ (1887); ‘‘ Mary Stuart ’’ (1893). 


Smart, Christopher (b. 1722; d. 
1770). ‘* Poems on Several Occasions ”’ 
(1752); ‘‘The Hilliad’’ (1753); ‘The 
Works of Horace, in English” (1756); 
‘A Song to David ” (1763) ;_‘‘ Poetical 
Translation of the Poems of Phedrus ” 
(1765), ete., besides many contributions 
to periodical literature, and a mass of 
religious poetry. 

Smiles, Samuel (b. Haddington, 
1816). ‘* Physical Education ’’ (1837) ; 
‘‘Railway Property’? (1849); “1,18 
of George Stephenson’’ (1859); ‘‘ Self- 
Help”’ (1860); ‘‘Lives of the Engi- 
neers ’’ (1862) ; ‘‘ Industrial Biography ”’ 
1863); ‘‘ Lives of Boulton and Watt”’ 
freee) “The Huguenots in England 
and Ireland’? (1867); ‘‘ Character” 
(1871); ‘‘The Huguenots in France’’ 
(1574): ** Thrift’? (1875); ‘‘ Scotch 
Naturalist ’’ (1876); ‘‘The Baker of 
Thurso ᾽ἢ filha ‘George Moore” 
(1878); ‘* Duty’ (1880); ‘‘ Life and 
Labour”? (1887); ‘‘ Jasmin”? (1891); 
“Α΄ Publisher (John Murray) and his 
Friends ’’ (1891); ‘ Josiah Wedgwood, 
F.R.S.’’ (1894). Edited the ‘ Auto- 
biography of James Nasmyth”’ (1883), 


Smith 


1417 


Smith 


Smith, Adam, LL.D. (b. Kirkcaldy, 
June δίῃ, 1723; ἃ. Edinburgh, July 
17th, 1790). ‘‘The Theory of Moral 
Sentiments’? (1759); ‘‘ An Inquiry into 
the Nature and Causes of the Wealth 
of Nations’? (1776); ‘‘The Rights of 
Great Britain asserted against the 
Claims of America’’ (1776); ‘‘ Letter to 
Mr. Strahan on the Last Illness of David 
Hume” (1777); and ‘‘ Essays on Philo- 
sophical Subjects’? (1795). See the 
“‘Life’”’ by Brougham in ‘‘ Menof Letters 
and Science,’’ by Playfair (1805), by 
Smellie (1800), that prefixed by Dugald 
Stewart to Smith’s Works (1812), Far- 
rer’s (1881), R. B. Haldane’s (1887) and 
John Rae’s (1895). Best editions of 
the ‘‘ Wealth of Nations,’? McCulloch’s 
(1839), and Rogers’s (1870). 

Smith, Alexander (b. Kilmarnock, 
December 31st, 1830; d. Wardie, near 
Edinburgh, January 8th, 1867). “A 
Life-Drama, and other Poems”’ (1853) ; 
“Sonnets on the Crimean War”? (with 
Sydney Dobell, 1855); ‘‘ City Poems”’ 
(1857); ‘‘ Edwin of Deira’ (1861); 
‘* Dreamthorpe’’ (1863); ‘‘A Summer 
in Skye” (1865); ‘‘ Alfred Hagart’s 
Household,’? a novel (1866); ‘‘ Last 
Theaves, (1808. {10} ὃν Ῥ' Ῥ᾿ 
Alexander Saat prefixed to ‘‘ Last 
Leaves.’? See also Brisbane’s ‘‘ Early 
Years of Alexander Smith" (1869). 


Smith, Goldwin, LL.D. (b. Reading, 
August 13th, 1823). ‘‘Irish History 
and Irish Character’? (1861); ‘‘ The 
Foundation of the American Colonies ”’ 
(1861) ; ‘‘ Irish History and Irish Charac- 
teristics’’ (1861) ; ‘‘ The Empire”’ (1863) ; 
‘* Three English Statesmen: Pym, Crom- 
well, and Pitt’? (1867); ‘‘ Lectures on 
Modern History”; ‘‘Short History of 
England down to the Reformation”’ 
(1869); ‘‘ Cowper,”’ in the Lnglish Men 
of Letters series; ‘‘The Conduct of 
England to Ireland’’ (1882); ‘‘ Life of 
Jane Austen’’ (1890); ‘‘ Canada and 
the Canadian Question ”’ (1891); ‘* Loy- 
alty, Aristocracy, and Jingoism ”’ (1891); 
‘A Trip to England”’ (1891); ‘‘ The 
Moral Crusader, Wm. Lloyd Garrison ”’ 
(1892) ; ‘‘ Bay Leaves ”’ (1893) ; ‘‘ Essay 
on Questions of the Day” (1893); 
*‘ Specimens of Greek Tragedy ᾽ (1893) ; 
‘The United States’ (1893) ; ‘‘ Oxford 
and her Colleges ᾽᾽ (1894). 


Smith, Horace (b. London, December 
3lst, 1779; ἃ. Tunbridge Wells, July 
12th, 1849). ‘‘ Horatio: or, Memoirs of 
the Davenport Family ”’ (1807); ‘‘ Re- 
jected Addresses’’ (with his brother 
ἡ πρό 1812); ‘‘Horace in London” 


(1813); ‘‘ First Impressions ’’ (1831); 
“‘Trevanion: or, Matrimonial Errors’’ 
(1813) ; ‘‘ The Runaway”’ (1813) ; ‘‘ Gaie- 
ties and Gravities’’ (1825); ‘‘ Brambletye 
House”? (1826); ‘‘Reuben Apsley ’’ 
(1827); τ. ΤΟΥ Hall ἢ {1897}: 
“Zillah: a Tale of the Holy City’’ 
(1828); ‘*The New Forest’’ (1829); 
“Walter Colyton: a Tale of 1688” 
(1830) ; ‘‘ Midsummer Medley ”’ (1830) ; 
‘* Festivals, Games, and Amusements of 
all Nations’’ (1831) ; ‘‘ Tales of the Early 
Ages”’ (1832); ‘‘ Gale Middleton”’ (1833) ; 
“The Involuntary Prophet’? (1835) ; 
“The Tin Trumpet’ (1836); ‘‘ Jane 
Lomax: or, a Mother’s Crime ”’ (1837) ; 
“Oliver Cromwell’? (1840); ‘‘ The 
Moneyed Man, and the Lesson of a 
Life ’’ (1841); ‘*‘ Adam Brown, the Mer- 
chant’? (1843); ‘‘ Arthur Arundel ”’ 
(1844); ‘*‘Love’s Mesmerism’’ (1845) ; 
and ‘‘ Poetical Works ”’ (collected, 1840). 


Smith, Reginald Bosworth (b. 
Dorchester, 1839). ‘‘Mohammed and 
Mohammedanism ”’ (1874); ‘‘ Carthage 
and the Carthaginians ᾽ (1878); ‘‘ Rome 
and Carthage”’ (1881); ‘‘ Life of Lord 
Lawrence ᾽᾽ (1883), etc. 


Smith, Sydney, Canon of St. Paul’s 
(Ὁ. Woodford, June 3rd, 1768; d. 
February 22nd, 1845). ‘‘ Six Sermons 
preached at Charlotte Chapel, Edin- 
burgh ”’ (1800); ‘‘ Letters on the Cath- 
olics from Peter Plymley to his Brother 
Abraham ᾽ (1808); ‘‘ Sermons ’”’ (1809) ; 
“The Judge that smites contrary to the 
Law ᾽᾽ (1824) ; ‘‘ A Letter to the Electors 
on the Catholic Question”’ (1826); ‘‘ Three 
Letters to Archdeacon Singleton on the 
Ecclesiastical Commission’? (1837-9) ; 
‘The Ballot’’ (1837); ‘‘ Letter to Lord 
John Russell on the Church Bills” 
(1838); ‘‘ Letters on American Debts” 
aed ; ‘* Fragment on the Irish Roman 

atholic Church’’ (1845); ‘‘Sermons’’ 
(1846); and ““ Elementary Sketches of 
Moral Philosophy ’’ (1849). A ‘‘ Selec- 
tion from his Writings’? appeared in 
1855; his ‘‘ Wit and Wisdom”’ in 1861. 
His ‘‘ Works, including his contributions 
tothe Edinburgh Review,’’ were published 
in 1839-40. See the ‘‘Life’’ by Lady 
Holland, with the ‘“ Letters,’’ edited by 
Mrs. Austen (1858), Hayward’s ‘‘ Bio- 
graphical and Critical Essays’’ (1898, 
vol. i.); the Edinburgh Review, No. cii., 
and Fraser’s Magazine, No. xvii. 

Smith, Professor William Robert- 
sop, LL.D. (Ὁ. Keig, Aberdeenshire, 
November Sth, 1846; ἃ. March 3lst, 
1894). ‘The Old Testament in the 
Jewish Church’’ (1881) ; ‘‘ The Prophets 


Smollett 


of Israel’’ (1882); ‘*‘ Kinship and Mar- 
riage in Early Arabia’’ (1885) : “* Lec- 
tures on the Religion of the Semites’”’ 
(1889). Joint editor of the ninth edition 
of the ‘‘ Encyclopedia Britannica,”’ 


Smollett, Tobias George, M.D. 
b. Dalquhurn House, Dumbartonshire, 

arch, 1721; d. Leghorn, October 16th, 
1771). ‘The Tears of Caledonia” 
(1746); ‘* The Advice: a Satire ’’ (1746) ; 
“The Reproof: a Satire’? (1747); ‘* The 
Adventures of Roderick Random”? (1748); 
‘“‘The Regicide: a Tragedy’’ (1749) ; 
‘‘The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle ”’ 
(1751); ‘‘ An Essay on the External Use 
of Water, with particular Remarks on 
the Mineral Waters of Bath’ (1752); 
“The Adventures of Ferdinand, Count 
Fathom ”’ (1753) ; a translation of ‘* Don 
Quixote ’’ (1755); ‘* The Reprisals: or, 
Tars of Old England” (1757); “Α Com- 
pleat History of England” (1757); ‘A 
Compendium of Voyages and Travels ’’ 
ant “The Adventures of Sir Launce- 
lot Greaves’? (1762); ‘‘ The Present 
State of all Nations ’’ (1764); ‘‘ Travels 
through France and Italy’ (1766); 
“The History and Adventures of an 
Atom”? (1769); “ΝΘ Expedition of 
Humphrey Clinker”? (1771); ‘* Ode to 
Independence” (1773); and miscellaneous 
poems and essays contributed to The 
Critical Review. ‘Plays and Poems, 
with Memoirs of the Lite and Writin 
of the Author,’ in 1777; his ‘‘ Miscel- 
laneous Works”? in 1790, 1796, 1797, and 
1845; the second and last of these 
editions including notices of his ‘‘ Life ”’ 
by Dr. Anderson and W. Roscoe re- 
spectively. ‘‘ Works’? in 1872, with 
““Memoir’’ by J. Moore. See also the 
‘* Biographies ’’ by Sir Walter Scott and 
Robert Chambers. For Criticism, see 
Hazlitt’s ‘*‘ Comie Writers,” Thackeray’s 
“English Humourists,’’ Forsyth’s ‘* No- 
velists of the Eighteenth Century,”’ 
Masson’s ‘‘ Novelists and their Styles,’’ 
ete. 


Somerville, Mrs. Mary (b. Rox- 
burghshire, December 26th, 1780; ἃ. 
Naples, November 29th, 1872). ‘‘ The 
Mechanism of the Heavens’ (1831); 
“The Connection of the Physical 
Sciences’? (1834); ‘Physical Geo- 
graphy ’’ (1848); ‘* Molecular and Mi- 
croscopic Science,’’ ete.  ‘* Personal 
Peroregnans and Correspondence’? in 
1873. 

South, Robert, D.D. (b. Hackney, 
1633; d. July 8th, 1710). ‘‘ Musica 
Incantans’’ (1655); ‘*The Laitie In- 
structed ”’ (1660); ‘‘ Animadversions on 


1418 


Southey 


Dr. Sherlock’s Vindication of the Doc- 
trine of the Trinity ᾽ (1693), etc. ‘Opera 
Posthuma”’ (1717); ‘* Sermons ᾽ (1828) ; 
new edition (1842). 


Southern, Thomas (b. Dublin, 1660; 
d. Westminster, May 26th, 1746), ‘‘ The 
Persian Prince: or, The Loyal Brother” 

1682); ‘* The Disappointment: or, The 
other in Fashion’’ (1684); ‘ The 
Wife’s Excuse ’’ (1692); ‘‘ The Spartan 
Dame” (1721); ‘‘Isabella: or, The 
Fatal Marriage ;’’ “ Oronooko;”’ ‘The 
Rambling ady ;’’ —** Cleomenes,”’ 
“Works ’’ with Life (1774). 


Southesk, The Earl of (b. 1827). 
** Jonas Fisher ἢ (1875); ‘* Saskatchewan 
and the Rocky Mountains’? (1875); 
‘*Greenwood’s Farewell and Other 
Poems” (1876); “ὙΠΟ Meda Maiden 
and Other Poems’’ (1877); ‘* Origin of 
Pictish Symbolism ᾽ (1893), ete. 


Southey, Mrs. Caroline Anne 
Bowles (Ὁ. 1786; ἃ, 1854). ‘* Ellen 
Fitzarthur ” (1820); ‘The Widow's 
Tale ;’’ ‘‘ Solitary Hours,’’ ete. 


Southey, Robert, LL.D. (b. Bristol, 
August 12th, 1774 ; d. Keswick, March 
2st, 1843). ‘‘Wat Tyler’ (1794); 
** Poems ”’ eer 1797, 1801); *‘ Joan of 
Arc ’’ (1796); ‘* Thalaba the Destroyer ᾽ἢ 

1801); ‘‘ Madoc’”’ (1805); ‘‘ Metrical 
ales and Other Poems ”’ (1805); ‘* The 
Curse of Kehama”’ (1810) ; ‘‘ Roderick ”’ 
1814); ‘Odes’. (1814); ‘* Minor 
oems’’ (1815); ‘Carmen Triumphale” 
(1815); ‘*The Poet's Pilgrimage to 
Waterloo’’ (1816); “ὙΠΟ Lay of the 
Laureate ’’ (1816); “Α Vision of Judg- 
ment’? (1821); ‘‘The Expedition of 
Orsua andthe Crimesof Aguirre’’ (1821); 
‘‘A Tale of Paraguay ᾽ (1825); ‘* All for 
Love’’ and ‘‘The Pilgrim to Compostella’’ 
1829); ‘*Oliver Newman, and Other 

‘oetical Remains ”’ (1845); and ““ Robin 
Hood: a Fragment’’ (1847). His prose 
works are as follow:—‘‘ Letters Written 
during a Short Residence in Spain and 
Portugal, with some Account of Spanish 
and Portuguese Poetry ’’ (1797); ‘‘ Letters 
from England, by Don Manuel Alvarez 
Espriella’’ (1807); “ Chronicle of the 
Cid Rodrigo Diaz de Bivar, from the 
Spanish ’’ (1808); a ‘* History of Brazil ”’ 
(1810) ; ‘‘ Omniana; or, the Hore Otio- 
siores’’ (1812); a ‘Life of Nelson”’ 
(1813) ; a ‘‘ Life of Wesley’ (1820); a 
‘* History of the Peninsular War’’ 
1823); ‘*The Book of the Church”’ 
18346 ‘* Sir Thomas More ; or, Collo- 

uies on the Progress and Prospects of 
Society (1824); “* Vindicie Ecclesia 


Southwell 


Anglicans ’’ (1826) ; ‘‘ Essays, Moral and 
Political’? (1832); ‘‘Lives of English 
Admirals’’ (1833-40); ‘The Doctor” 
(1834-38) ; ‘Lives of Cromwell and 
Bunyan ”’ (1844); and a ‘‘ Life of Doctor 
Andrew Bell’’ (1844). Southey also 
edited the ‘‘ English Anthology’’ for 
1799-1800; ‘‘Specimens of the Late 
English Poets, with Preliminary Notices”’ 
(1807) ; ‘‘Attemptsat Verse, by J. Jones,”’ 
with an ‘‘ Essay on Uneducated Poets”’ 
(1881) ; and ““ Select Works of the Early 
British Poets, with Biographical Notices”’ 
(1831). His ‘*‘ Commonplace Book,”’ 
edited by J. W. Warter, appeared in 
1849-51; selections from his poetical 
works in 1831, from his prose works in 
1832, and ‘‘ Life’? and Correspond- 
ence published by his son in 1849-50; 
and a Selection from his Letters by his 
son-in-law, Warter, in 1856. Sve the 
“1176 by Browne (1854), and the 
Monograph by Dowden (1880). 

Southwell, Robert (Ὁ. St. Faith’s, 
Norfolk, 1560; d. London, February 
20th, 1595). ‘* A Supplication to Queen 
Elizabeth ᾽ (1599); ‘*‘ Marie Magdalen’s 
Funerall Teares ’”’ (1594); ‘St. Peter’s 
Complaynt, with other Poems” (1595) ; 
“ΜΟΙ (1595); ‘‘The Triumphs 
over Death ”’ (1595) ; ‘‘ Epistle of Com- 
fort to the Reverend Priests and Others 
of the Lay Sort Restrained in Durance 
for the Catholike Fayth ”’ (1605); and 
‘“* A Short Rule of Good Life.’’ Prose 
‘‘Works’’ edited by Walter in 1828; 
poetical works by ‘Turnbull in 1856. 
το “Ε Biography,”’ sce the Gentleman’s 
Magazne tor 1798, Brydges’ ‘‘ Censura 
Literaria,’’ Ellis’s ‘‘ Specimens,’’ Camp- 
bells ‘* English Poets,’’ Challoner’s 
‘‘ Martyrs to the Catholic Faith,’ and 
Morley’s‘‘ English Writers,”’ vol. xi. For 
Criticism, see MacDonald's ‘‘ England's 
Antiphon.”’ 

Spedding, James (b. 1810; d. 1881). 
‘“‘ Publishers and Authors’? (1867) ; 
“Letters and Life of Francis Bacon”’ 
(1857-74); ‘‘ Reviews and Discussions not 
relating to Bacon” (1869); ‘‘ Life and 
Times of Bacon’’ (1876); ‘‘ Evenings 
with a Reviewer; or Macaulay and 
Bacon ᾽ (1882). His important edition of 
Bacon’s Works began to appear in 1857. 


Spence, Joseph (b. 1698; d. 1768). 
‘An Essay on Pope’s Translation of 
Homer’s Odyssey ”’ (1727) ; ‘‘ Polymetis”’ 
(1747) ; ‘‘ Moralities ; or, Essays, Letters, 
Fables, and Translations*’ (1743); an 
“‘ Account of the Life, Character, and 
Poems of Mr. Blacklock”? (1754); ‘‘A 


Parallel, in the manner of Plutarch, — 


1419 | 


Spenser 


between a most celebrated Man of 
Florence [Signor Magliabecchi], and one 
scarce ever heard of in England {Robert 
Hill] ”’ (1758); and ‘‘ Observations, Anec- 
dotes, and Characters of Books and 
Men”? (1820). See Zhe Quarterly Review, 
vol. xxiii. ; also, the ‘‘ Life’’ by Singer 
(1820). 


Spencer, Herbert (b. Derby, April 
27th, 1820). ‘‘The Proper Sphere of 
Government”’ (1842); ‘‘ Social Statics ἢ 
(1851); ‘* Principles of Psychology ”’ 
(1855); ‘Essays: Scientific, Political, 
and Speculative’? (1858-63); ‘‘ Educa- 
tion ’’ (1861) ; ‘‘ First Principles ’’ (1862) ; 
‘¢ Classification of the Sciences’? (1864) ; 
‘* Principles of Biology ’’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Spon- 
taneous Generation’’ (1870); ‘‘ Recent 
Discussions in Science, Philosophy, and 
Morals ”’ (1871) ; ‘‘ The Study of Sociol- 
ogy’? (1872); ‘‘ Descriptive Sociology ἢ 
(1873); ‘‘ Sins of Trade and Commerce ”” 
(1875); ‘*Ceremonial Institutions” 
(1879) ; ‘‘ Data of Ethics ’’ (1879) ; ‘The 
Coming Slavery’? (1884); ‘‘Man ver- 
sus the State’? (1885); ‘‘The Factors 
of Organic Evolution’’ (1887); ‘‘ The 
Principles of Ethics’? (1892) ; ‘‘ The In- 
adequacy of Natural Selection ”’ (1893) ; 
‘A Rejoinder to Professor Weismann ”’ 
(1893); ““ Weismannism Once More” 
(1894) See ‘“‘ Aphorisms . . . selected 
by J. R. Gingell” (1894). 


Spenxser, Edmund (Ὁ. London, 1552; 
d. Westminster, January 16th, 1599). 
“The Shepherd’s Calendar’? (1579) ; 
‘« The Faerie Queene ”’ (1590-96) ; ** Com- 
plaints’? (1591); ‘‘ Prosopopoia ; or, 
Mother Hubbard’s Tale” (1591) ; ‘‘ Tears 
of the Muses”? (1591); ‘‘ Daphnaida”’ 
(1591); ‘* Colin Clout’s Come Home 
Againe’’? (1595); ‘‘Amoretti’’ (1595) ; 
“Fowre Hymns’’ (1596); ““ Prothala- 
mion”’ (1595) ; ‘ Britain’s Ida(*)”’ (1628); 
also, with Gabriel Harvey (1545-1630), 
‘“Three proper and wittie familiar 
Letters, lately passed between two Uni- 
versity Men, touching the HKarthquake 
in April last, and our Knglish Refourmed 
Versifying’’ (1580); and ‘‘ Two other 
very Commendable Letters of the same 
Men’s Writing, both touchmg the fore- 
said artificiall Versifying, and certain 
other Particulars’? (1580) ; both of which 
are reprinted in vol. ii. of Haslewood’s 
ςς Ancient Critical Essays upon English 
Poets and Poesy ;’’ besides “ἃ View of 
the State of Ireland’’ (1633). Spenser’s 


Poetical ‘‘Works’’ have been edited, 


with Notes and ‘‘ Memoirs,’’ by Hughes 
1715 and 1750), Birch (1751), Chureh 
C1758), Upton (1758), Todd (1809 and 


Spurgeon 


1420 


Stephen 


1840), Aikin (1806 and 1842), Robinson 
1825), Mitford (1829), Hillard (1839), 
asterton (1848), Child (1855), Gilfillan 
(1859), Morris (1869), ete. Kitchen edits 
the first two Books, with Notes. See 
Warton’s ‘‘ English Poetry ;᾽ Hazlitt’s 
‘English Poets;’’ ‘ a ger) and his 
Poetry,’’ by G. L. Craik (1845); Dean 
Church’s ‘*Spenser’’ (1878); Morley’s 
“English Wniters,’’ vols, ix., X., Xi. 


Spurgeon, Charles Haddon ; 
Kelvedon, Essex, June 19th, 1834; ἃ, 
Mentone, January 31, 1892). ‘The 
Saint and his Saviour’ (1857); ‘‘ John 
Ploughman’s Talk ”’ Spe series, 1868) ; 
‘Lectures to my Students”? (first series, 
1875); ‘‘ Eccentric Preachers’’ (1879) ; 
“Treasury of David’? (1870-85); ‘* Ser- 
mons in Casidltes ”? (1890), ete.; founded 
and edited The Sword and the Trowel. 


Stalker, Rev. James, D.D. (b. 
Crieff, Perthshire, February 21st, 1848). 
“ Life of Jesus Christ’’ (1879 and 1884) ; 
‘‘ Richard Baxter’’ (1883); ‘‘ Life of 
St. Paul’? (1884 and 1885); ‘‘ Imago 
Christi’? (1889); ‘‘The Preacher and 
His Models ”’ (1891) ; ‘‘ The Four Men,”’ 
etc. (1892); ‘‘The Atonement’ (1894). 


Stanhope, Earl, Philip Henry (b. 
Walmer, January 31st, 1805; d. Bourne- 
mouth, December 22nd, 1875). “ΓΑ Life 
of Belisarius’’ (1829); ‘‘A History of 
the War of the Succession in Spain” 
(1832) y ‘‘ A History of England from 
the Peace of Utrecht to the Peace of 
Aix-la-Chapelle ”’ (1836-52); ‘‘ The 
Court of Spain under Charles II.”’ 
1844); ‘‘ A Life of the Great Condé’’ 
£845). ‘¢ Historical Essays ’’ (1848); “Α 
History of the Rise of Our Indian Em- 
pire’’ (1858); ‘‘ A History of the Reign 
of Queen Anne to the Peace of Utrecht”’ 
eal an edition of the ‘‘ Letters’’ of 

ord Chesterfield (1845); ‘‘ Memoirs of 
Sir Robert Peel;’” a ‘‘ Life of William 
Pitt.” 


Stanley, Arthur Penrhyn, D.D., 
Dean of Westminster (b. Alderley, 
December 13th, 1815; d. July 18th, 
1881). ‘* Life of Dr. Arnold ” (1844) ; 
‘“‘Sermons and Essays on the Apostolic 
Age’? (1846); “ἃ Memoir of Bishop 
Stanley’? (1850); ‘‘The Epistles to 
the Corinthians’? (1854); ‘* Historical 
Memorials of Canterbury’’ (1854) ; 
‘“‘Sinai and Palestine’? (1855); ‘' The 
Unity of Evangelical and Apostolical 
Teaching ’’ (1859); ‘‘ Sermons preached 
before the University of Oxford ’’ (1860) ; 
‘‘The History of the Eastern Church”’ 
(1861); ‘‘ Sermons preached in the East’’ 


1862); ‘*The History of the Jewish 

hurch’’ (1863-65); ‘‘ Historical Me- 
morials of Westminster Abbey ’’ (1867) ; 
““The Three Irish Churches’? (1869) ; 
‘* Essays on Church and State’? (1870) ; 
“The Athanasian Creed ’’ (1871) ; ‘‘ Lec- 
tures on the Church of Scotland’’ (1872); 
‘““Edward and Catherine Stanley”’ 
(1879). ‘‘ Life’? by R. E. Prothero, 
assisted by Dean Bradley (1893), 


Stanley, Henry Morton, D.C.L., 
LL.D. (b. near Denbigh, January 28th, 
1841), ‘‘How I Found Livingstone ”’ 
1872); ‘*Coomassie and Magdala”’ 
1874); ‘‘ Through the Dark Continent ἢ 
1878); ‘‘ The Congo and the Founding 
of its Free State’’ (1885); “Τὰ Darkest 
Africa ” (1890) ; ‘‘ My Dark Companions 
and their Strange Stories’? (1893); 
‘““My Early Travels and Adventures ”’ 
(1890). 


Stead, William Thomas (}. Emble- 
ton, Northumberland, July 5th, 1849). 
“The Truth About Russia’’ (1888) ; 
‘“‘The Pope and the New Era’”’ (1890) ; 
‘*General Booth’? (1891); ““ Character 
Sketches ”’ pots ormerly editor of 
the Pall Mall Gazette, founder and editor 
ἐπ a Review of Reviews, and of Border- 
and, 


Steele, Sir Richard (b. Dublin, 
1671; ἃ. Llangunnor, September _ Ist, 
1729). “Το Christian Hero’ (1701); 
‘““The Funeral; or, Grief ἃ la Mode ’”’ 
(1702) ; ‘‘ The Tender Husband ”’ (1703); 
‘““The Lying Lover’ (1704); ‘‘ The 
Crisis ’’ (1714) ; ‘* The Conscious Lovers”? 
(1722); edited the Zatler, and wrote for 
the Guardian and the Spectator, ** Life ”’ 
of Steele in Forster’s ‘‘ Biographical and 
Critical Essays,” and ‘ Memoir’? by 
Montgomery (1865). See also Thackeray’s 
“ English Humourists’? and Dennis’s 
ἐς Studies in English Literature.”’ 


Stephen, Sir James (b. Lambeth, 
January 3rd, 1789; d. Coblentz, Sep- 
tember 15th, 1859). ‘* Essays in Ecclesi- 
astical Biography ᾿" (1849); and ‘* Lec- 
tures on the History of France’’ (1851). 
‘* Life”’ in 1860. 


Stephen, Sir James Fitzjames (b. 
London, March 3rd, 1829; d. March 
llth, 1894). ‘*Essays by a Barrister” 
pac ‘* General View of the Criminal 

aw of England’’ (1863); ‘‘ Liberty, 
Equality, and Fraternity’’ (1873) ; 
“Digest of the Law of Evidence” 
(1876); ‘‘ The Story of Nunamar”’ 
(1885); ‘* Hore Sabbatice’’ (1892). 
‘* Life’? by his brother, Leslie Stephen 
(1895). : 


Stephen 


Stephen, James Kenneth (Ὁ. 1859 ; 
ἃ. 1892). ‘* International Law and In- 
ternational Relations ’’ (1884); ‘‘ Lapsus 
Calami’’ (1891); ‘‘The Living Lan- 
guages ”’ (1891); ‘‘Quo Musa Tendis Ὁ 
(1891). 

Stephen, Leslie (Ὁ. 1832). ‘‘The 
Playground of Europe” (1871); ‘‘ Essays 
on Free Thinking and Plain Speaking ”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘ Hours in a Library”’ (1874-79); 
‘History of English Thought in the 
Eighteenth Century ’’ (1876); ‘‘ Samuel 
Johnson ’’ (1878); ‘The Science of 
Ethics ’”’ (1882); ‘‘ Life of Henry Faw- 
cett”’ (1855); *‘An Agnostic’s Apology,”’ 
ete. (1893); ‘‘ Life of Sir James Fitz- 
james Stephen,’’ his brother (1895); 
and “Pope” and ‘Swift’? in the 
English Men of Letters series, Edited 
Cornhill, and was first editor of the 
Dictionary of National Biography. 

Sterling, John (b. 1806; d. 1844). 
“* Arthur Coningsby ᾽ (1830) ; ‘‘ Poems”’ 
(1839); ‘*The Election’? (1841); and 
“* Strafford,”’ a tragedy (1843). ‘‘Works”’ 


in 1848. Lives by Hare (1848) and Car- 
lyle (1851), 
Sterne, Laurence (Ὁ. Clonmel, 


November 24th, 1713; d. London, March 
18th, 1768). ‘*The Life and Opinions 
of Tristram Shandy, Gent.’’ (1759-67) ; 
“Sermons”? (1760); ‘‘A Sentimental 
Journey through France and Italy”’ 
(1768); and ‘*The History of a Warm 
Watchcoat’’ (1769). ‘‘ Letters to his 
most Intimate Friends’’ published by 
his daughter in 1775; ‘‘ Letters to 
Eliza ’’ [Mrs. Draper] same year; other 
portions of his correspondence, in 1788 
and 1844. For Biography, see the 
Quarterly Review, vol. xlix., Sir Walter 
Scott’s ‘‘ Lives of the Novelists,’’? and 
Fitzgerald’s ‘‘ Life of Laurence Sterne’’ 
(1864), and Stapfer’s ‘‘ Vie’’ (Paris, 
1878). For Criticism, see Thackeray’s 
‘Lectures on the Humourists,’’ Taine’s 
“English Literature,’’ Masson’s ‘‘English 
Novelists,’ Ferriar’s ‘‘ Illustrations of 
Sterne,’’ Traill’s ‘‘ Sterne,”’ etc. 


Stevenson, Robert Louis Balfour 
i. Edinburgh, November 13th, 1850; 

. Samoa, December 8th, 1894). ‘* An 
Inland Voyage” (1878); ‘‘ Edinburgh : 
Picturesque Notes’’ (1879); ‘‘ Travels 
with a Donkey (1879); ‘‘ Virginibus 
Puerisque”’ (1881); ‘‘Familiar Studies 
of Men and Books’ (1882); ‘‘New 
Arabian Nights’? (1882); ““ Trea- 
sure Island’’ (1883); ‘‘The Silverado 
Squatters ’’ (1883) ; ‘‘ A Child’s Garden 
of Verse’? (1885); ‘‘The Dynamiter”’ 
(1885) ; ‘‘Prince Otto’’ (1885) ; ‘‘Strange 


1421 


Stoughton 


Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” 
(1885); ‘Kidnapped’? (1886); ‘The Merry 
Men ”’ (1887); ‘‘ Underwoods ”’ (1887) ; 
“ Ticonderoga ’’? (1887); ‘* Memories 
and Portraits” (1887); ‘‘The Black 
Arrow”’ (1888); ‘‘The Wrong Box,” 
with Lloyd Osbourne (1889) ; “‘ Ballads ”* 
(1890); ‘‘The Master of Ballantrae ’’ 
(1891); ‘‘The Wrecker,” with Lloyd 
Osbourne (1892); Three Plays, in col- 
laboration with W. E. Henley (1892) ; 
‘Across the Plains,” etc. (1892); 
‘‘ Catriona”? (1893); ‘Island Nights’ 
Entertainments’’ (1898); ‘The Ebb 
Tide,” with Lloyd Osbourne (1894). 
ee edition of ‘‘ Works”’ begun 
94. 


Stewart, Dugald (b. Edinburgh, 
November 22nd, 1753; d. near Bo'ness, 
June 11th, 1828). ‘Elements of the 
Philosophy of the Human Mind” (1792, 
1814, and 1827); ‘‘ Outlines of Moral 
Philosophy ᾽ (1793); ‘‘ Account of the 
Life and Writings of William Robertson, 
D.D.”’ (1801); ‘‘ Account of the Life 
and Writings of Thomas Reid, D.D.” 
(1803) ; ‘‘ Philosophical Essays”? (1810) ; 
“Account of the Life and Writings of 
Adam Smith’? (1811); ““ Dissertation 
exhibiting the Progress of Metaphysical, 
Ethical, and Political Philosophy since 
the Revival of Letters in Europe ’’ (1815 
and 1821); ‘‘The Philosophy of the 
Active and Moral Powers ’’ (1828) ; and 
‘*Lectures on Political Economy,’ pub- 
lished in 1855, with the remainder of 
Stewart’s ‘‘ Works,”’ and an account of 
his ‘‘ Life’? and ‘‘ Writings,”’ edited by 
Sir William Hamilton. 

Stillingfleet, Edward (b. Cran- 
borne, Dorsetshire, April 17th, 1634; 
d. Westminster, March 27th, 1699). 
“Trenicum ;”’ ‘‘ Origines Sacre ’’ (1662); 
“ Rational Account of the Grounds of 
the Protestant Religion ’’ (1665); ‘‘ The 
Reasons of Christ’s Suffering for Us’’ 
(1678) ; ‘‘ Origines Britannice’’ (1685) ; 
“Sermons Preached on several Occa- 
sions’? (1696-98); ‘‘ A Vindication of 
the Doctrine of the Trinity’? (1697) ; 
‘* Directions for the Conversations of the 
Clergy’? (1710); ““ Miscellaneous Dis- 
courses on several Occasions’’ (1735) ; 
‘* Discourses on the Church of Rome,’’ 
etc. ‘‘ The Lifeand Character of Bishop 
Stillingfleet, together with some account 
of his Works,’’ by Timothy Goodwin, 
in 1710; same year, ‘‘ Works” in ten 
volumes. See Tulloch’s ‘‘ Rational Theo- 
logy in England.”’ 


Stoughton, Rev. John, D.D. (b. 
Norwich, November 18th, 1807). ‘‘ Ages 


Strutt 


of Christendom ᾽᾽ (1856); ‘‘ Church and 
State Two Hundred Years ago’’ (1862); 
“ Haunts and Homes of Martin Luther ”’ 
(1875); ‘‘ Lights of the World ’’ (1876) ; 
‘* Progress of Divine Revelation ”’ (1878) ; 
“ Religion in England from the Openin 
of the Long Parliament till the En 
of the Eighteenth Century’’ (1881); 
“‘ William Penn ᾽" (1882); “ΤΠ Spanish 
Reformers ’’ (1884); ““ Religion in Eng- 
land from 1800 to 1850”? (1884); ‘* Lights 
and Shadows of Church Life” (1895), 
etc. 
Strutt, Joseph (Ὁ. i ere Essex, 
October 27th, 1742; d. October 16th, 
1802). ‘*The Regal and Ecclesiastical 
Antiquities of England ’’ (1773) ; ‘‘ Horda 
Angel-Cynnan: or, A Complete View of 
the Manners, Customs, Arms, Habits, 
etc., of the Inhabitants of England, from 
the Arrival of the Saxons till the Reign 
of Henry VIII.’’ (1774-6); ‘‘The 
Chronicle of England, from the Arrival 
of Julius Cesar to the Norman Con- 
quest ’’ (1777-8); ‘‘ A Biographical His- 
_tory of Engravers’’ (1785-6); “ΠΑ Com- 
‘plete View of the Dress and Habits of 
the People of England, from the Estab- 
lishment of the Saxonsin Britain to the 
Present Time ’’ (1796-9); ‘* The Sports 
and Pastimes of the People of England” 

1801) ; *‘ Queenhoo Hall,”’ and ‘* Ancient 
‘Times’? (1808); ‘*‘The Test of Guilt”’ 

1808 and ‘*Bumpkin’s Disaster”’ 
(1808 i 

Stubbs, Very Rev. Charles Wil- 
liam, D.D. (b. Liverpool, September 
8rd, 1845). ‘‘ International Morality ”’ 

1869); ‘Christ and Democracy ἢ 
Rene ‘“*The Conscience, and other 

‘The Land and the 
Labourers’’ ( ; ‘*For Christ and 
City ’’ (1890); ‘‘ Christ and Economics ” 
(1893), ete. 

Stubbs, Right Rev. William, D.D., 
D.C.L. (Ὁ. Knaresborough, June 2150, 
1825). ‘*The Constitutional History of 
England”? (1874-78); ‘‘Lectures on 
Medieval and Modern History ’’ (1886), 
besides editing ‘‘Hymnale Secundum 
usum Ecclesiw Sarisburiensis’’ (1850) ; 
“Tractatus de Santa Cruce de Waltham ”’ 
(1860); Mosheim’s ‘‘ Institutes of Church 
History ’’ (1863); ‘‘ Chronicles and Memo- 
rials of Richard I.’’ (1864-5); Benedict 
of Peterborough’s ‘‘ Chronicle ’’ (1867) ; 
the ‘‘Chronicle’’? of Roger de Hoveden 

1868-71); ‘‘ Select Charters and other 
llustrations of English Constitutional 
History’? (1870); ‘*‘ Memorials of St. 
Dunstan ”’ (1874), etc. 


~ Suckling, Sir John (Ὁ. Whitton, 


1499 


Swinburné 


near Twickenham, 1609; d. Paris, May 
7th, 1641). ‘‘ Works ”’ (1770). A selection, 
with Life, by the Rev. Alfred Suckling, 
in 1836. See Hazlitt’s edition of Works, 
(complete), 1875. See also Leigh Hunt’s 
“ Companion.”’ 


Sully, Professor James, LL.D. 
o. Bridgwater, 1842). ‘Sensation and 

ntuition ᾽ (1874) ; ‘* Pessimism”? (1877) ; 
“Ὁ Tilusions ’’ (1883) ; ‘The Outlines of 
Psychology ’’ (1884); ‘*The Teachers’ 
Handbook of Psychology ᾽ (1886) ; ‘* The 
Human Mind”’ (1892), ete. 


Swift, Jonathan, Dean of St. 
Patrick’s; Dublin (b. Dublin, Nov. 
30th, 1667; d. there, Oct. 19th, 1745). 
“The Battle of the Books’? (1704); 
“Tale of a Tub”’ (170%); ‘* Sentiments 
of a Church of England Man in Respect 
to Religion and Government’’ (1708); 
“An Argument against the Abolition of 
Christianity ’’ (1708); ‘‘ The Conduct of 
the Allies’? (1712); ‘‘ The Publie Spirit 
of the Whigs’? (1714); ‘Letters by 
M. B. Drapier”’ (1724); ‘Travels of 
Lemuel Gulliver’? (1726); a ‘* History 
of the Four Last Years of Queen 
Anne,”’ * Polite Conversation,’’ ‘‘ Dir- 
ections to Servants,’? ‘‘A Journal to 
Stella,’’ ete. Works edited, with a 
Memoir, by Sir Walter Scott, in 1814. 
See also the Biographies by Hawkes- 


worth, Sheridan, Johnson, Forster, 
Leslie Stephen, and J. Churton 
Collins. For criticism, see Hazlitt’s 


‘“*Comic Writers,’’ Thackeray’s ‘‘ Eng- 
lish Humourists,’’? Jeaffreson’s ‘‘ Novels 
and Novelists,’’? Masson’s ‘* Novelists 
and their Styles,’’? Taine’s ‘ English 
Literature,’’ and other writers. 


Swinburne, Algernon Charles (Ὁ. 
London, April 5th, 1837). ‘* The Queen 
Mother’? and ‘‘ Rosamond’? (1861); 
“ Atalanta in Calydon ”’ (1864); ‘‘ Chaste- 
Turd’? (1865); ‘‘Poems and Ballads ’’ 
Boo) ; ‘“ Notes on Poems and Reviews ’” 

66); “A Song of Italy” (1867); 
‘William Blake,’ a critical essay 
(1867); ‘‘ Notes on the Royal Academy 
Exhibition ’’ (1868) ; ‘‘ Ode on the Pro- 
clamation of the French Republic” 
(1870) ; ** Songs before Sunrise ”’ ΜΠ: 
“Under. the Microscope’? (1872); 
‘“‘ Bothwell,” a tragedy (1874) ; ‘‘ Essays 
and Studies” (1875); ‘‘ George Chap- 
man,”’ an essay (1875); ‘‘ Erectheus,”’ a 
tragedy (1876); ‘‘ A Note on Charlotte 
Bronté ’’ (1877); ‘‘ Poems and Ballads ”’ 
(second series, 1878); “ἃ Study of 
Shakespeare ’’ (1880); ‘‘Songs of the 
Springtides’’ (1880); ‘‘The Seven 


Symonds 14 


3 Taylor 


against Sense’? (1880); ‘‘ Mary Stuart, 
a Tragedy’? (1881); ‘Tristram of 
Lyonesse’’ (1882); ‘‘A Century of 
Roundels’”’ (1883); “ΧΑ Midsummer 
Holiday’ (1884); ‘‘ Marino Faliero”’ 
(1885); ‘‘A Study of Victor Hugo”’ 
(1886) ; ‘‘ Miscellanies’’ (1886); ‘‘ Lo- 
erine’’ (1887); ‘‘The Jubilee, 1887”’ 
(1887); ‘The Ballad of Dead Men’s 
Bay ’’ (1889); ‘‘ The Brothers’’ (1889) ; 
“Poems and Ballads’? (third series, 
1889); “Α Study of Ben Jonson”’ 
(1889); ‘‘ The Sisters’? (1890); ‘‘ A Se- 
quence of Sonnets on the Death of 
Robert Browning’ (1890); ‘‘ Sacred 
and Shakespearian ities’? (1890) ; 
“Grace Darling’? (1893); ‘‘ Studies in 
Prose and Poetry’’ (1894); ‘‘ Astro- 
hel,’’ ete. (1894). ‘Selections’? from 
is Works (1887). For Criticism, see 
Forman’s ‘‘ Living Poets,’’ Stedman’s 
“« Victorian Poets,” etc. 


Symonds, John Addington (b. Oc- 
tober δίῃ, 1840; d. April 19th, 1893). 
“Tntroduction to the Study of Dante”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘Studies of the Greek Poets”’ 
1873-76); ‘‘Sketches in Italy and 
reece’? (1874); ‘‘The Renaissance in 
Italy’? (1875-86); ‘‘The Sonnets of 
ins 


Mic ngelo Buonarotti and Cam- 
panella”’ (1878); ‘‘Animi Figure’’ 
(1882); ‘‘ Italian Byways’’ (1883) ; 


‘*Vagabunduli Libellus”’ (1884) ; ‘‘Shake- 
speare’s Predecessors in the English 
Drama ᾽ (1884) ; ‘‘ Wine, Women, and 


Song’”’ (1884); “Ben Jonson’’ (1887) ; 
‘“‘Essays Speculative and Suggestive ’’ 
(1890) ; ‘‘Our Life in the Swiss High- 
lands’”’ (1892); ‘‘ Life of Michel- 
angelo Buonarotti’’ (1892); ‘‘In the 
Key of Blue,” etc. (1893); ‘* Walt 
Whitman ”’ (1893); ‘‘ Blank Verse”’ 
(1894); ‘*Giovanni Boccaccio as Man 
and Author’’ (1894). ‘‘ Life’’ by Horatio 
Ἐς Brown (1895). 


Symons, Arthur (b. Milford Haven, 
February 28th, 1865). ‘‘ Introduction 
to the Study of Browning’ (1886); 
“Days and Nights’? (1888); ‘Sil- 
houettes ’’ (1892); ‘‘ London Nights”’ 
1885). Has edited the Essays of Leigh 
unt, plays of Shakespeare, etc, 


T 


Talfourd, Sir Thomas Noon (b. 
Doxey, near Stafford, January 26th, 
1795; ἃ. Stafford, March 13th, 1854), 
“Ton”? (1835) ; “The Athenian Captive,”’ 
a tragedy (1838); ‘‘A proposed New Law 


of Copyright of the highest Importance 
to Authors”? (1838); ‘‘ Glencoe, or the 
State of the MacDonalds,” a tragedy 
(1839) ; ‘*Three Speeches delivered in 
the House of Commons in favour of an 
extension of Copyright’’ (1840) ; ‘“Speech 
for the Defendant in the Prosecution, 
the Queen v. Moxon, for the publication 
of Shelley’s Poetical Works” (1841); 
‘Recollections of a First Visit to the 
Alps ”’ (1841); ‘‘ Vacation Rambles and 
Thoughts”? (1844); ““ Final Memorials 
of Charles Lamb” (1849-50); ‘‘ The 
Castilian ᾽ (1853), 

Taylor, Sir Henry, D.C.L. (b. 1800; 
d. 1886). ‘‘Isaac Comnenus”’ (1827) ; 
‘*Philip Van Artevelde ᾽᾽ (1834); ‘‘The 
Statesman ’’ (1836) ; ‘‘ Edwin the Fair ”’ 
(1842); ‘* The Eve of the Conquest and 
other Poems” (1847); ‘‘ Notes from 
Life’’? (1847); ‘‘ Notes from Books’’ 
(1849); ‘‘A Sicilian Summer’ (1850); 
“St. Clement’s Eve’ (1862). Works 
(1887). See his ‘‘ Autobiography”’ (1885), 
and the Criticism by Anthony Trollope, 
in vol. 1. of The Fortnightly Review. 


Taylor, isaac (b. Lavenham, August 
17th, 1787; d. Stanford Rivers, Essex, 
June 28th, 1865), ‘‘The Elements of 
Thought’’ (1822); ‘‘ Memoir of his Sister 
Jane’’ (1825); ‘‘ History of the Trans- 
mission of Ancient Books to Modern 
Times ’’ (1827); ‘‘ The Process of His- 
torical Proof Exemplifiedand Explained’”’ 
(1829); a ‘‘ Translation of Herodotus ᾽ἢ 
(1829); ‘‘The Natural History of En- 
thusiasm’’ (1829); ‘‘A New Model of 
Christian Mission”? (1829) ; ‘‘The Temple 
of Melekartha’”’ (1831); ‘‘ Saturday 
Evening ”’ (1832) ; ‘ Fanaticism ”’ (1833); 
“Spiritual Despotism’’ (1835); ‘‘ The 
Physical Theory of Another Life”’ (1836); 
‘* Home Education ’’ (1838); ‘* Ancient 
Christianity and the Doctrines of the 
Tracts for the Times”’ (1839); ‘*‘ Man 
Responsible for his Dispositions ”’ (1840) ; 
“Lectures on Spiritual Christianity ἢ 
(1841); ‘‘Loyola and Jesuitism in its 
Rudiments’? (1849); ‘‘ Wesley and 
Methodism ”’ (1851); ‘‘ The Restoration 
of Belief’? (1855); ‘‘The World of 
Mind” (1857); ‘‘ Logic in Theology, and 
other Essays’? (1859); ‘‘ Ultimate Civili- 
sation, and other Essays’’ (1860); and 
‘¢The Spirit of Hebrew Poetry ”’ (1860), 
See his son’s ‘‘ Memorials of the Taylor 
Family ’’ (1867). 

Taylor, Canon Isaac, Litt.D., 
LL.D. (b. Stanford Rivers, May 2nd, 
1829), ‘* Words and Places’’ (1865) ; 
“Ὁ Memorials, Biographical and Literary, 
of the Taylor Family of Ongar” (1867) 


? 


Taylor 14 


4 Taylor 


‘‘ Etruscan Researches’? (1874); ‘‘ The 
Etruscan Language ’’ (1876); ‘‘ Greeks 
and Goths ”’ (1879); ‘‘ The Alphabet, 
an Account of the Origin and Develop- 
ment of Letters ’’ (1883); ‘‘ Leaves from 
an Egyptian Note-Book ”’ (1888) ; ‘‘ The 
Origin of the Aryans ”’ (1889), etc. 


Taylor, Jeremy, Bishop of Down 
and Connor and of Dromore (b. Cam- 
bridge, August 15th, 1613; ἃ, Lisburn, 
August 13th, 1667). ‘‘ Sermon on the 
Gunpowder Treason ”’ (1638); ‘‘ Of the 
Sacred Order and Offices of Episcopacy 
by Divine Institution Asserted ᾽ (1642) ; 
“ Psalter of David, with Titles and Col- 
lects, According to the Matter of each 
Psalm ᾽ (1644) ; ‘‘ Discourse Concerning 
Prayer Extempore ”’ (1646); ‘‘ A Dissua- 
sive from Popery’’ (1647); ‘‘ New and 
Easy Institution of Grammar ’’ (1647) ; 
‘‘ A Discourse of the Liberty of Pro- 

hesying ’’ (1647) ; ‘‘ The Martyrdom of 

<ing Charles’”’ (1649) ; ‘‘ The Great Ex- 

emplar’’ (1649); ‘‘Holy Living and 
Dying’’ (1650); ‘‘ Prayers Before and 
AfterSermon”’ (1651); ‘‘Clerus Domini’’ 
(1651); ‘‘ A Course of Sermons for all 
the Sundaies in the Year’ (1651-3) ; 
“Α Short Catechism, with an Explication 
of the Apostles’ Creed ᾽ (1652); ‘‘ Dis- 
course of Baptism, its Institution and 
Efficacy ’’ (1652); ‘‘The Real Presence 
and Spiritual of Christ in the Blessed 
Sacrament proved against the Doctrine 
of Transubstantiation ᾽᾽ (1654); ‘* The 
Golden Grove’’ (1655) ; ‘‘ Unum Neces- 
sarium ; or, the Doctrine and Practice of 
Repentance”’ (1655); ‘‘ Deus Justificatus, 
Two Discourses on Original Sin ’’ (1656); 
‘* A Collection of Polemical and Moral 
Discourses’’ (1657); ‘‘ Discourse on the 
Measures and Offices of Friendship ”’ 
(1657); ‘‘ The Worthy Communicant”’ 
(1660); ‘‘ Ductor Dubitantium ”’ (1660) ; 
‘Rules and Advices given to the Clergy 
of the Diocese of Down and Connor’? 
(1661), ete. ‘* Works” in 1819, 1822 
(with Life of the Author, and a Critical 
Examination of his Works, by Bishop 
Heber) ; 1825 (edited by Bradley); 1831 
(edited, with a Life, by Hughes) ; 1834 
edited, with a Life, by Croly and 
stebbing) ; 1841 (with a Memoir); 1847 
(Heber’s edition, revised by Eden); and 
1851 (with an Essay, biographical and 
critical, by Henry Rogers). 


Taylor, John, ‘‘The Water Poet”’ 
(b. Gloucester, about 1580; d. 1654), 
*« Travels in Germany ᾽ (1617); ‘‘ Pen- 
niless Pilgrimage’’ (1618) ; ‘‘ The Praise 
of Hempseed, with the Voyage of Mr. 
Roger Bird and the Writer in a Boat 


of Brown Paper ᾽ (1623); etc. Publi- 
cation of Complete Works begun by 
Spenser Society in 1867. 


Taylor, Thomas (b. London, May 
15th, 1758; d. Walworth, November Ist, 
1835). ‘* Elements of a New Method of 
Reasoning on Geometry’ (1780); “A 
Dissertation on the Elensinian and 
Bacchic Mysteries’’ (1791); ‘‘ Disserta- 
tion on Nullities and Diverging Series ”’ 
(1801); ‘‘The Elements of the True 
Arithmetic of Infinities’’ (1809); ‘‘ The 
Arguments of the Emperor Julian 
against the Christians’’ (1809); ‘A 
‘‘ Dissertation on the Philosophy of 
Aristotle ’’ (1812); ‘‘ The Elements of a 
New Arithmetical Notation’? (1828); 
‘¢ History of the Restoration of Platonic 
Theology,’’ ‘‘ Theoretic Arithmetic,”’ and 
various Translations of Apuleius, Aris- 
totle, Hierocles, Iamblicus, Julian, 
Maximus ‘Tyrius, Pausanias, Plato, 
Plotinus, Porphyry, Sallust, and other 
ancient authors. For Biography, see the 
Atheneum (1835), Knight’s ‘* Penny 
Cyclopeedia,’’ Barker’s ‘‘ Literary Anec- 
dotes,’’ and ‘‘ Public Characters ’”’ 
(1788-9). 


Taylor, Tom (b. 1817; d. July 12th, 
1880). ‘* Diogenes and his Lantern”’ 
(1849); “Τῇ Vicar of Wakefield ’’ 
1850); ‘‘'The Philosopher’s Stone ’’ 
£1850 ; ‘*Prince Dorus”’ (1850); ‘‘Sir 
Roger de Coverley’’ (1851); ‘‘ Our 
Clerks’’ (1852); ‘* Plot and Passion ”’ 
(1852) ; ‘‘ Wittikind and his Brothers ”’ 
(1852); “Το Oblige Benson’’ (1854) ; 
“A Blighted Being’? (1854); ‘Still 
Waters Run Deep’’ (1855); ‘‘ Helping 
Hands ’”’ (1855) ; ‘‘ Retribution ᾽ (1856) ; 
«ὁ Victims ’’ (1856) ; ‘‘ Going to the Bad ”’ 
(1858) ; *‘ Our American Cousin ”’ (1858) ; 
‘““Nine Points of the Law’”’ (1859); 
‘‘The House and the Home” (1859) ; 
“The Contested Election’? (1859) ; 
‘“‘The Fool’s Revenge’’ (1859); ‘A 
Tale of Two Cities’? (from Dickens) 
(1860) ;_‘‘ The Overland Route ”’ (1860) ; 


“The Babes in the Wood’ 18638. 
“ΠῚ 6 Ticket-of-Leave Man’’ (1863); 
“oTwixt Axe and Crown” (1870) ; 


“‘ Joan of Arc’’ (1870); ‘‘Clancarty ”’ 
(1873); ‘‘ Anne Boleyn”? (1876); ‘‘ An 
Unequal Match ;’’ besides being the part 
author of ‘‘ New Men and Old Acres,”’ 
‘6 Masks and Faces,”’ ‘‘ Slave Life,’’ and 
several other dramas.  ‘‘ Historical 
Plays’? in 1877. He also published 
‘“‘The Life and Times of Sir Joshua 
Reynolds,’”’ ‘‘ Leicester Square,’’ and 
‘Songs and Ballads of Brittany ;’’ and 
edited the autobiographies of B. R. Hay- 


Temple 


1425 


Tennyson 


don and C, R. Leslie, and Mortimer 
Collins’s posthumous ‘‘ Pen Sketches.”’ 


Temple, The Right Rev. 
Frederick, D.D. (Ὁ. November 3Uth, 
1821). ‘‘Sermons Preached in the 
Chapel of Rugby School”’ (1862); ‘‘ The 
Relations between Religion and Science”’ 
(1885). 


Temple, Sir William (b. London, 
1628; d. Moor Park, Surrey, January 
27th, 1699). ‘‘ Observations upon the 
United Provinces of the Netherlands ”’ 
1673); ‘‘ Miscellanea on Various Sub- 
jects’? (1680-90); ‘‘ Memoirs of what 
passed in Christendom from 1672 to 
1679”’ (1693); ‘‘ Letters’’ (edited by 
Dean Swift, 1700);: ‘‘ Letters to King 
Charles II., etc.’’ (1703) ; and ‘‘ Miscel- 
lanea, containing ‘Four Essays upon 
Ancient and Modern Learning,’ ‘The 
Garden of Epicurus,’ ‘ Heroick Vertue,’ 
and ‘ Poetry’ ”’ (1705). 


Tennyson,Alfred, Baron (b. Somers- 
by, Lincolnshire, August 6th, 1809; d. 
October 6th, 1892). ‘‘ Poems by Two 
Brothers”’ (with his brother Charles 
Tennyson, 1827); ‘‘ Timbuctoo ”’ (1829) ; 
“*Poems, chiefly Lyrical’’ (1830); ‘No 
More,” “ Anacreontics,’’ and ““Α Frag- 
ment,’ in Zhe Gem (1831); a ‘‘Sonnet,’’ 
in The Englishman's Magazine (1831); 
a‘‘Sonnet,”’ in Yorkshire Literary Annual 
(1832); a ‘‘Sonnet,”’ in Friendship’s Offer- 


ang (1832); ‘‘ Poems’ (1832); ‘St. 
Agnes,” in Zhe Keepsake (1837); 
“Stanzas,’”’ in The Tribute (1837); 


“*Poems’’ (1842); ‘*The New Timon 
and the Poets,’’ in Punch (1846); ‘* The 
Princess ”’ (1847 and 1850); ‘‘ Stanzas,”’ 
in The Kxaminer (1849); ‘Lines,’ 
in The Manchester Atheneun Album 
(1850); ‘In Memoriam’ (1850); 
“*Stanzas,”’ in The Keepsake (1851); 
“Sonnet to W. C. Macready,” in Zhe 
Household Narrative (1851); “Ode on 
the Death of the Duke of Wellington ”’ 
(1852); ‘‘The Third of February,’ in 
The Examiner (1852); ‘‘ The Charge of 
the Light Brigade”? in The Examiner 
(1854) ; ‘‘Maud, and other Poems”’ 
(1855); ‘‘ Idylls of the King” (Enid, 
Vivien, Elaine, Guinevere) (1859); 
“The Grandmother’s Apology,” in Once 
a Week (1859) ; ‘‘Sea Dreams,’’ in Mac- 
millav’s Magazine (1860) ; ““ Tithonus,”’ 
in The Cornhill Magazine (1860); ‘‘ The 
Sailor Boy,”’in The Victoria Regia (1861); 
“Ode: May the First’? (1862); ‘A 
Welcome ”’ (1863) ; ““ Attempts at Classic 
Metres in Quantity,’”? in The Cornhill 
Magizine (1863); ‘“ Epitaph on the 


90 


Duchess of Kent’ (1864); ‘‘ Enoch 
Arden ”’ (1864) ; ‘‘ The Holy Grail, and 
other Poems”’ (1867); ‘‘ The Victim,’’ 
in Good Words (1868) ; ‘‘ 1865-6,” in Good 
Words (1868) ; ‘‘ A Spiteful Letter,’’ in 
Once a Week (1868): ** Wages,”’ in Mac- 
millan’s Magazine (1868) ; ‘‘ Lucretius,”’ 
in Macmillan’s Magazine (1868); ‘* The 
Window; or, Songs of the Wrens”’ 
(1870) ; ‘‘ The Last Tournament,” in Zhe 
Contemporary Review (1871); ‘* Gareth 
and Lynette, and other Poems ”’ (1872) ; 
“Α Welcome to Marie Alexandroyna ”’ 
(1874) ; ‘Queen Mary”’ (1875); ‘‘ Harold” 
(1877) ; three sonnets, a translation, ‘‘ Sir 
Richard Grenville,’ and ‘‘ The Relief of 
Lucknow,” in the Nineteenth Century 
(1877-9); ‘‘The Lover’s Tale’’ (1879); 
a sonnet and ‘‘De Profundis,’’ in the 
Nineteenth Century (1880) ; ‘The Fal- 
con’ (1879); ‘‘ Poems and Ballads” 
(1881); ‘‘ The Cup”’ (1881); ‘‘ The Promise 
of May’ (1882); ‘‘ Becket’? (1884) ; 
‘*'Tiresias’’ (1886) ; ‘‘ Locksley Hall, Sixty 
Years After’’ (1886); ‘‘ Jubilee Poem’? 
(1887) ; ‘‘ Demeter,’’ etc. (1889) ; ‘* Ayl- 
mer’s Field’’ (1891); ‘‘The Death of 
(Enone,”’ etc. (1892); ‘‘The Feresters’’ 


(1892). Also the following: ‘ Britons, 
guard your own,” in 76 Examiner 
1852); ‘‘ Hands all Round,” in Zhe 


xaminer (1852) ; and ‘* Riflemen, form!”’ 
in The Times (1859). ‘* A Selection from 
the Works” in 1865; ‘‘ Songs’’ in 1871 ; 
‘““Works”’? in one volume in 1878. 
‘**Concordance to the Works”’ in 1869. 
See ““ Tennysoniana”’ (1879), and T. H. 
Smith’s ‘‘Notes and Marginalia on 
Alfred Tennyson ᾽᾽ (1873). Analyses of 
‘*In Memoriam ”’ by Tainsh and Fredk. 
Wm. Robertson. For Criticism, see 
Brimley’s ‘‘ Essays,’? Tuckerman’s 
““ Essays,’’ Elsdale’s ‘‘Studies in the 
Idylls”’ (1878), A. H. Hallam’s ‘“ Re- 
mains,” W. C. Roscoe’s ‘‘ Essays,”’ 
Kingsley’s _ ‘‘ Miscellanies,’? Hutton’s 
ΚΕ Essays,’’ Tainsh’s ‘‘ Studies in Tenny- 
son,’’ Bayne’s ‘‘ Essays,’’ Austin’s ‘‘ Poe- 
try of the Period,’ J. H. Stirling’s 
‘* Essays,’ J. H. Ingram in *‘ The Dublin 
Afternoon Lectures,’ A. H. Japp’s 
““Three Great Teachers’? (1865), For- 
man’s ‘ Living Poets,’’ Buchanan’s 
‘* Master Spirits,’’ Stedman’s ‘‘ Victorian 
Poets,’’ ‘‘ Lord Tennyson, a Biographical 
Sketch,’’ by H. J. Jennings (1884), John 
Churton Collins’s ‘‘ Illustrations of 
Tennyson ”’ (1891), A. J. Church’s ‘‘ The 
Laureate’s Country”? (1891); Joseph 
Jacob’s ‘‘Tennyson and ‘In Memo- 
riam’’’ (1892), A. Waugh’s ‘ Alfred 
Lord Tennyson ᾽᾽ (1892), G. G. Napier’s 
“ Homes and Haunts of . . Tennyson”’ 


Tennyson 


1426 


(1892); Mrs. Ritchie’s ‘‘ Records of ‘** Thackerayana "' (1875) ; 


Thomson 


os 


‘* Thackeray, 


Tennyson’ (1892), and “ Alfred Lord | the Humorist and Man of Letters ’’ 


Tennyson and his Friends”? (1893), B. 
Francis’s ‘‘The Scenery of Tennyson’s 
Poems ”’ (1893), H. Littledale’s ‘‘ Essays 
on the Idylls of the King ’”’ (1893), H. δ, 
Salt’s ‘‘ Tennyson as a Thinker ’’ (1893), 
Stopford Brooke's ‘‘ Tennyson: his Art 
and Relation to Modern Life ”’ (1894). 


Tennyson, Charles. (See TURNER, 
Cares TENNYSON ) 


Tennyson, Frederick. ‘‘ Duys and 
Hours ”’ (1854); ** The Isles of Greece,”’ 
etc. (1890) ; ‘* Daphne,’’ ete. (1891). 


Thackeray, Anne Isabella, Mrs. 
Ritchie, (Ὁ. about 1839). ‘‘ The Story 
of Elizabeth ’’ (1863) ; ‘‘ The Village on 
the Cliff’? (1866); ‘‘ Five Old Friends, 
and a Young Prince” 
Esther, and other Sketches’? (1869); 
“Old Kensington’? (1872); ‘'Toilers 
and Spinsters, and other Essays ”’ (1873) ; 


(1868); “Τὸ 


‘‘ Bluebeard’s Keys, and other Stories ’’ | 


(1874) ; ‘* Miss Angel ’’ (1875); ‘* Madame 
de Sévigné’’ (1881); ‘*A Book of 
Sibyls ”’ (1883) ; ‘‘ Miss Dymond ”’ (1885) ; 
‘‘Records of Tennyson, Ruskin, and 
Browning” (1892); ‘* Alfred, 
Tennyson, and his Friends’’ (1893) ; 
‘* Chapters from Some Memoirs ᾽ (1894). 
Works in 1875-6. 

Thackeray, William Makepeace 
(Ὁ. Calcutta, Aug. 12th, 1811; ἃ. Ken- 
sington, Dec. 24th, 1863). ‘* Flore et 
Zephyr’’ (London and Paris, 1836) ; 
‘* The Paris Sketch Book”’ (1840); ‘* The 
Second Funeral of Napoleon,’’ and ‘‘ The 
Chronicle of the Drum” (1841); ‘‘ The 
Irish Sketch Book ”’ (1843) ; ‘‘ Notes of a 
Journey from Cornhill to Grand Cairo” 
(1845); ““ Vanity Fair’’ (1847) ; ‘‘ Mrs. 
Perkins’s Ball’’ (1847); ‘‘Our Street "ἢ 
(1848); “Ὧν. Birch and his Young 
Friends ’’ (1849) ; ‘“* Fhe History of Pen- 
dennis’’ (1849-50); ‘Rebecca and 
Rowena’’ (1859) ; ‘‘ The Kickleburys on 
the Rhine ”’ (1851) ; ‘‘ Esmond ᾽ (1852) ; 
“<The Newcomes ᾽ (1855); and ‘** The 
Virginians ’’ (1857) ; besides the follow- 
ing, contributed to The Cornhill Maga- 
zine, Fraser’s Magazine, and Punch :— 
“The Hoggarty Diamond,” ‘‘Catherine,”’ 
‘“‘Barry Lyndon,’’ ‘‘Jeames’s Diary,” 
““The Book of Snobs,’’ ‘‘ Roundabout 
Papers,’’ ‘‘ Lovel the Widower,” ‘‘ The 
Adventures of Philip,’’ ‘‘ Denis Duval,’’ 
and ‘‘ Novels by Eminent Hands.’’ — See 
also his lectures on ‘‘ The Four Georges,”’ 
“The English Humorists of the 
Eighteenth Century,’’ and “‘'The Or- 
phan of Pimlico,” For Biography, 6: 


Lord | 


(1864) ; Trollope’s ‘* Thackeray ᾽ (1879) ; 
and a Selection from his Letters which 
appeared in Scribner's Magazine in 1887, 
and was afterwards published in yolume 
form. For Criticism, sce Roscoe's ** Es- 
says,’ Senior’s ‘Essays on Fiction,” 
Hannay’s ‘Characters and Sketches,” 
and ‘* Studies on Thackeray,”’ etc. 


Thirlwal), Connop, Bishop of St. 
David's (Ὁ. 1797; ἃ, 1875). ‘* Essay on St. 
Luke,” translated from Schleiermacher 
(1825) ; “ History of Greece "ἢ (1834-47) ; 
“The Tractarian Controversy ”’ Csi: 
“Dr, Newman on Development”’ (1848); 
‘The Gorham Case”? (1851); ‘* Essays and 
Reviews "’ (1863); ‘The Vatican Council” 
(1872). The last five treatises were re- 
published in his “ Remains, Literary 
and Theological ’’ (1877). Sve ‘* Letters 
of Bishop Thirlwall,” edited by Perowne 
and Rev. L. Stokes (1881); and ‘* Letters 
of Bishop Thirlwall,’’. edited by Dean 
Stanley (1881). 


Thomas, Annie, Mrs, Pender Cudlip, 
(Ὁ. 1838). ‘The Cross of Honour” 
1863); ‘* False Colours” (1869); ‘* * He 
‘ometh Not,’ She Said’? (1873); ‘No 
Alternative’’ (1874); ‘‘ Blotted Out”’ 
(1876); ‘*A London Season’. (1879) ; 
‘* Eyre of Blendon ”’ (1881); ‘* Society's 
Puppets " (1882) ; ‘* Friends and Lovers”’ 
(1883); ΚΕ Tenifer ’’ (1883); ** Kate Vali- 
ant’? (1884): ‘‘ No Medium’? (1885) ; 
**Love’s a Tyrant” (1888); +*That 
Other Woman’’ (1889); ‘‘ The- Sloane 
Square Scandal,”’ etc. (1890); “On the 
Children’ (1890); ‘*The Love of a 
Lady ’’ (1890); ‘‘ That Affair’? (1891) ; 
“ Old Dacres’ Darling’? (1892); * The 
Honourable Jane’’ (1892); .‘‘ Utterly 
Mistaken” (1893); ‘‘A Girl’s Folly” 
(1894); ‘* No Hero, but a Man ᾽ (1894) ; 
ΚΕ False Pretences’’ (1895). 


Thompson, Francis. ‘‘ Poems Sf 
(1893) ; ‘* Sister Songs’’ (1895). ” 


Thompson, Sir Henry, Bart. (b. 
1820). ‘* Practical Lithotomy and Litho- 
trity ’’ (1863); ‘‘A Catalogue of Blue 
and Whit2 Nankin Porcelain”’ (1878) ; 
‘‘Charley Kingston’s Aunt’? (1835); 
** All But’? (1886); ‘‘ Modern Crema- 
tion ’’ (1889), ete. 


Thomson, James (Ὁ. Ednam, Rox- 
burghshire, Sept. 11th, 1700; ἃ. Rich- 
mond, Surrey, Aug. 22nd, 1748). 
‘‘Winter”’ (1726) ;_ “Summer”? (1727) ; 
“Britannia”? (1727); ‘‘ Spring ’’ (1728); 
«ς Sophonisba ”? (1729);  ‘* Autumn ”’ 


Thomson 


1427 


Tooke 


(1730) ; ‘‘Liberty ᾿" (1734 and 1736); 

‘Agamemnon ᾽ (1738); ‘‘ Edward and 
Leonora’? (1739); ‘Alfred’? (with 
Mallet, 1740); ‘*‘Tancred and Sigis- 
munda ᾿" (1745); ‘*‘ The Castle of 
Indolence’’ (1748); and ‘ Coriola- 
nus ’’ (1749). Works and Life by Mur- 
doch, in 1762; with Memoir and Notes 
by Sir Harris Nicolas, in 1830; witha 
Life, critical dissertation, and notes, by 
Gilfillan, in 1853; and by Robert Bell, 
in 1855, See also the Life by Buchan 
(1792); the Miscellanies of the Philo- 
biblion Society (1857-58) * and an Essay 
by Barante, in his ‘* Etudes”’ (Paris, 
1857). 

Thomson, James (‘‘B. Y.’’) (Ὁ. 
Port Glasgow, 1834; ἃ. 1882). ‘The 
City of Dreadful Night,’’ etc. (1880); 
““Vane’s Story, and Other Poems ”’ 
(1880); “Α Voice from the Nile, and 
Other Poems” (1883); ‘‘ Shelley,’’ 
poetry and prose (1834). ‘‘Life,’’ by 
H. 5. Salt, with selections (1889). 
‘* Poetical Works,”’ edited, with Memoir, 
by B. Dobell (1895). 


Thomson, Sir William, now Lord 
Kelvin (Ὁ. 1824). ‘‘ The Linear Motion 
of Heat” (1842); ‘‘Secular Coating of 
the Earth” (1852); ““ Electrodynamics 
of Qualities of Metals”’ (1855); ‘* Trea- 
tise on Natural Philosophy ’’ (1867) ; 
“*Papers on Electrostatics and Magnet- 
ism’”’ (1872); ‘‘ Tables for Facilitating 
the Use of Sumner’s Method at Sea ”’ 
(1876); ‘‘ Mathematical and Physical 
Papers ’’ (1882); ‘‘ Popular Lectures 
and Addresses ’’ (1891-4). 


Thomson, William, Archbishop of 
York (b. Whitehaven, February 11th, 
1819; d. December 24th, 1890). -‘* Out- 
line of the Laws of Thought’’ (1842) ; 
“The Atoning Work of Christ ”’ (1853) ; 
“Sermons Preached in Lincoln’s Inn 
Chapel’? (1861); ‘‘ Life in the Light of 
God’s Word”’ (1863); ‘‘ Word, Work, 
and Will’’ (1879). Editor of ‘‘ Aids to 
Faith’’ (1861). Biographical Sketch by 

Bullock, entitled ‘‘ The People’s 
Archbishop.”’ 


Thornbury, George Walter (b. 
London, 1828; ἃ. June llth, 1876). 
“Lays and Legends of the New World ”’ 
(1851); ‘‘ Monarchs of the Main ᾽ (1855); 
κε Shakespeare’s England ᾽ (1856) ; ‘‘Art 
and Nature at Home and Abroad ”’ 
(1856) ; ‘Songs of Cavaliers and Round- 
heads’? (1857); ‘‘ Every Man his own 
Trumpeter ” (1858); a ‘‘ Life of J. M. W. 
Turner, R.A.” (1862); ‘‘ True as Steel”’ 
(1863) ; ‘* Wildfire ”’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Haunted 


London” (1865); ‘‘ Taies for the Mariner” 
(1865); ‘* Greatheart ” (1866); ‘The 
Vicar’s Courtship ”’ (1869) ; ‘* Old Stories 
Retold ”’ (1869) ; “Α Tour Round Eng- 
land ” (1870); ‘‘ Criss Cross Journeys”? 
(1873); *‘ Old and New London”? (vols.. 
1. and ii.), and ‘‘ Historical and Legend-" 
ary Ballads and Songs’’ (1875). 


Tickell, Thomas (Ὁ. Bridekirk, 
Cumberland, 1686; ἃ. 1740). *‘The 
Prospect of Peace; ”’ ‘‘ The Royal Pro- 
gress ; ’’ a translation of the first book of 
“ΤῊ Iliad ;”’ ‘‘ A Letter to Avignon ; ” 
** Kensington Gardens ;’’ ‘‘ Thoughts on 


| a Picture of Charles I. ;”’ ‘‘ To the Earl 
| of Warwick, on the Death of Mr. Addi- 


son; ’’ and other pieces. Sve the “" Life,” 
by Dr. Johnson, and the ‘‘ Spectator.” 


Tillotson, John, Archbishop of 
Canterbury (b. Sowerby, near Halifax, 
1630; ἃ. November 20th, 1694). ‘‘ The 
Rule of Faith’? (1666); ‘‘ Sermons”? 
(1671), ete. Works (1752), with Birch’st 
ΠΝ δι τ Ἐν 

Tindal, Matthew, LL.D. (Ὁ. Devon- 
shire, 1657; d. August 16th, 1733). 
“* Concerning Obedience to the Supreme 
Powers, and the Duty of Subjects 
in all Revolutions” (1694); an ‘‘ Es- 
say concerning the Laws of Nations 
and the Rights of Sovereigns ”’ (1695) ; 
“The Rights of the Christian Church 
asserted against the Romish, with a 
Preface Concerning the Government of 
the Church of England as by Law Es- 
tablished ”’ (1706); a ““ Defence of the 
Rights of the Church against W. Wotton 
(1707); ‘‘A Second Defence’ (1708) ; 
“The Jacobitism, Perjury, and Popery 
of the High Church Priests”? (1710); 
“ Christianity as Old as the Creation”’ 
(1730). See Lechler’s ‘*‘ Geschichte des 
Englischen Deismus’’ (Stuttg., 1841); 
Hunt’s ‘‘ Religious Thought in England” 
(vol. ii., 1871); and Leslie Stephen’s 
“ English Thought”’ (vol. 1., 1876). 


Toland, Janus Junius, afterwards 
John (Ὁ. Redcastle, Ireland, November 
30th, 1670; d. Putney, March 11th, 
1722). ‘Christianity not Mysterious ”’ 
(1696); ‘‘Socinianism Truly Stated” 
(1705); ‘‘ Pantheisticon’’ (1750), etc. 
‘* Memoir’? (1726). See references in 
preceding article. 

Tooke, John Horne (b. London, 
June 25th, 1726; d. Wimbledon, March 
19th, 1812). ‘‘The Petition of an 
Englishman *’ (1765); ‘‘ Letter to Mr. 
Dunning ”’ (1778) ; ‘‘ The Diversions of 
Purley” (1786-1805); ‘‘ Letter on the 
Reported Marriage of the Prince of 


Torrens 


Wales’? (1787). Memoir by Hamilton 
in 1812, and by Stephens in 1813. See 
the ‘‘ Life’ by Reid. 


Torrens, William Torrens Mac- 
Cullagh (b. October, 1813; d. April 
26th, 1894). ““Οπ the Uses and Study 
of History ’’ (1842); ** Industrial History 
of Free Nations” (1846) ; ‘*‘ Memoirs of 
. . . R.L. Shiel’’ (1855); ‘‘ Life and 
Times of Sir J. R. G. Graham ”’ (1863) ; 
‘“‘Empire in Asia: How We Came by 
It’’ (1872); ‘‘ Memoirs of William. . . 
Second Viscount Melbourne ’’ (1878); 
‘“‘Pro-Consul and Tribune: Wellesley 
and O’Connell’? (1879); ‘Reform of 
Procedure in Parliament’? (1881) ; 
‘““Twenty Years in Parliament ”’ (1893) ; 
“History of Cabinets ’’ (1894). 


Tourneur, Cyril (circa 1600). 
“The Transformed Metamorphosis ”’ 
(1600); ‘*The Revenger’s Tragedie’’ 

1607); ‘‘A Funerall Poem upon the 
eath of Sir Francis Vere, ight ”’ 
1609); ‘‘The Atheist’s Tragedy; or, the 
onest Man’s Revenge’’ (1611); and ‘*A 
Griefe on the Death of Prince Henrie, 
expressed in a broken Elegie, according 
to the Nature of such a Sorrow ”’ (1613). 
Works (1878). See The Letrospective 
Review, vol. vii. 

Traill, Henry Duff, D.C.L. (b. 
Blackheath, August I4th, 1842). 
““Sterne’’ (1882); ‘‘ Recaptured Rhymes”’ 
(1882); ‘The New Lucian” (188) 
“ὁ Coleridge’? (1884); ‘‘ Shaftesbury ”’ 
{580 ; ‘© William III.’’ (1888) ; ‘‘ Straf- 

ord ”’ (1889); ‘*Saturday Songs’’ (1890); 
““The Marquis of Salisbury ’’ (1890) ; 
‘““Number Twenty: Fables and Fan- 


tasies’’ (1892). Editor of ‘‘ Social 
England”; formerly editor of the 
Observer. 


Trench, Richard Chenevix, D.D., 
Archbishop of Dublin (b. Dublin, Sep- 
tember 9th, 1807; ἃ. 1886). ‘* Sabba- 
tion, Honor Neale, and Other Poems,’ 
“The Story of Justin Martyr,” 
“* Genoveva,”’ ‘‘Elegiac Poems,’? and 


“Poems from Eastern Sources.’’ Also 
“Notes on the Parables” (1841); 
“Notes on the Miracles’? (1846); 


“The Lessons in Proverbs’? (1853); 
““The Sermon on the Mount, as Illus- 
trated from St. Augustine,’’ ‘‘ Sacred 
Latin Poetry,” ‘‘St. Augustine as an 
Interpreter of Scripture,’’ ‘‘ Synonyms 
of the New Testament ᾽᾽ (1854); ‘‘ The 
Epistles to the Seven Churches of Asia 
Minor,”” ‘“‘An Essay on the Life and 
Genius of Calderon,’”’ ‘‘ Deficiencies 
in Sixty English Dictionaries,’ ‘‘A 


1428 


Trollope 


Glossary of English Words used in 
Different Senses,’? ‘‘The Authorised 
Version of the New Testament, with 
Thoughts on its Revision,’ ‘The 
Study of Words,” ‘ English Past and 
Present ᾽ (1855); ‘‘ Gustavus Adolphus”’ 
‘*Social Aspects of the Thirty Years’ 
War,” ‘‘ A Household Book of English 
Poetry,’’ ‘‘ Notes on the Greek of the 
New Testament,’’ ‘‘The Salt of the 
Earth,” ‘Shipwrecks of Faith,” 
‘Studies in the Gospels,’’ ‘* The Sub- 
jection of the Creature to Vanity,’ 
‘*Synonyms of the New Testament,” 
‘* Plutarch’? (1874) ; “ Medizeval Church 
History ’’ (1878): ‘* Westminster and 
Other Sermons’’ (1888). Letters, ete., 
edited by Miss M. M. Τὶ Trench (1888) ; 
Collected Poems (1865). 


Trevelyan, Sir George Otto ἕῳ 
July 30th, 1838). ‘*Horace at the 
University of Athens’’ (1861) : ‘‘ Letters 
of a Competition Wallah’’ (1864) ; 
‘“Cawnpore’’ (1865); ‘‘Speeches on 
Army Reform” ee “The Life and 
Letters of Lord Macaulay” (1876); 
‘“‘The Early Times of Charles James 
Fox’ (1880). 


Tristram, Canon Henry Baker, 
D.D., LL.D. (Ὁ. May 11th, 1822). ‘* The 
Great Sahara’? (1860); ‘* The Land of 
Israel’? (1865); ‘Natural History of 
the Bible’’ (1867); ‘‘ The Land of 
Moab” (1873); ‘‘ Pathways of Pales- 
tine ’’ (1881-82); ‘‘ Eastern Customs in 
Bible Lands”’ (1894), etc. 


Trollope, Anthony (b. April 24th, 
1815; ἃ. December 6th, 1882). ‘‘ The 
Macdermots of Ballycloran’’ (1847) ; 
“ The Kellys and the O’Kellys’”’ (1848) ; 
“La Vendée’? (1850); ‘*The Warden” 
(1855); ‘‘The Three Clerks’’ (1897); 
ἐς Barchester Towers’ (1857); ‘* Doctor 
Thorne” (1858); ‘‘The Bertrams”’ 
(1859); ‘‘Castle Richmond’’ (1860) ; 
‘‘Framley Parsonage’’ (1861); ‘*‘ Tales 
of All Countries’? (1861); ‘‘ Orley 
Farm ”’ (1862); ‘‘ Rachel Ray’ (1863) ; 
“The Small House at Allington”’ (1864) ; 
“Can You Forgive Her ἢ (1864); ‘The 
Belton Estate’’ (1865); ‘‘ Miss Macken- 
zie”? (1865); “Ὑπὸ Last Chronicles of 
Barset”’ (1867); ‘‘ The Claverings”’ (1867); 
“Lotta Schmidt and Other Stories” 
(1867); ‘‘He Knew He was Right”’ 
(1869) ; ‘‘ Phineas Phinn”’ (1869); ‘‘ An 
Editor’s Tales’’ (1870); ‘Sir Harry Hot- 
spur”? (1870); ‘‘ The Vicar of Bullhamp- 
ton” (1870); ‘Ralph the Heir”? (1871); 
‘The Bustace Diamonds ”’ (1872); ‘‘The 
Golden Lion of Grandpére”’ (1872); 


Trollope 


1429 


Turner 


‘‘Phineas Redux’? (1873); ‘‘ Har 
Heathcote”’ (1874); ‘‘ Lady Anna” (1874); 
‘““The Prime Minister’? (1875); ‘‘ The 
Way We Live Now’ (1875); ‘‘The 
American Senator”’ (1877); “15 he Popen- 
joy ?”’ (1878) ; ‘Cousin Henry’ (1879) ; 
and other novels; besides ‘‘ The West 
Indies and the Spanish Main’’ (1859) ; 
‘‘North America’? (1862); ‘‘ Hunting 
Sketches’? (1865); ‘‘ Clergymen of the 
Church of England” (1866); ‘Travelling 
Sketches ’’ (1866); ‘‘ Australia and New 
Zealand’? (1873); ‘‘ New South Wales 
and Queensland ’’ (1874); ‘‘ South Aus- 
tralia and Western Australia’’ (1874) ; 
‘Victoria and Tasmania”’ (1874): ‘* South 
Africa’’ (1878); ‘‘ Thackeray ’’ (1879) ; 
‘* Ayala’s Angel’’ (1881); Autobiography 
(1883). 


Trollope, Mrs. Frances (b. Heck- 
field, 1779; d. Florence, October 6th, 
1863). Wrote ‘‘ Domestic Manners of 
the Americans’ (1832); ‘‘The Refuge 
in America’? (1832); ‘‘The Abbess” 
(1833) ; ‘The Adventures of Jonathan 
Jefferson Whitlaw ”’ (1836) ; ‘‘ The Vicar 
of Wrexhill’’ (1837); “Δ Romance of 
Vienna” (1838); ‘*Tremordyn Cliff ”’ 
(1838); ‘* Widow Darnaby” (1838) ; 
“ Michael Armstrong; or, the Factory 
Boy” (1839); “Ομ Fault’? (1839) ; 
ς The Widow Married’’ (1840); ‘‘ The 
Blue Belles of England” (1841); 
‘‘ Charles Chesterfield’? (1841); ‘‘ The 
Ward of Thorpe Combe”? (1842) ; ‘* Har- 
grave ’’ (1843) ; ‘‘ Jessie Phillips”? (1843) ; 
“The Laurringtons’’ (1843); ‘* Young 
Love’? (1844); ‘‘ Petticoat Govern- 
ment,’’ ‘‘ Father Eustace,’’ and ‘‘ Uncle 
Walter’? (1852); and ‘“‘The Life and 
Adventures of a Clever Woman.”’ 


Trollope, Thomas Adolphus (b. 
April 29th, 1810; d. November 11th, 
1892). ‘A Decade of Italian Women ”’ 
(1849); ‘‘ Impressions of a Wanderer in 
Italy ’’ (1850); ‘‘ Catherine de Medici”? 
(1859) ; ‘* Filippo Strozzi’’ (1860) ; ‘* Paul 
the Pope and Paul the Friar”? (1860) ; 
“Tia Beata’? (1861); ‘‘ Marietta’’ 
(1862); ‘‘ Giulio Malatesta’’ (1863) ; 
ΠΕ Beppo the Conseript”’ (1864); ‘* Lin- 
disfarn Chase’’ (1864); ‘‘ History of 
the Commonwealth of Florence”’ (1865) ; 
‘¢ Gemma ”’ (1866) ; ‘‘ The Dream Num- 
bers” (1868); ‘‘ Diamond Cut Diamond”’ 
(1875); ‘‘ The Papal Conclaves”’ (1876) ; 
‘¢ A Family Party at the Piazza of St. 
Peter’s’’ (1877); a ‘‘ Life of Pope Pius 
TX.” (1877); “ΑΔ Peep behind the Scenes 
at Rome’’ (1877), and other works, 
including ‘‘ What I Remember” (1887- 


᾿ς Pifty 


89). Edited ‘‘ Italy: from the Alps to 
Mount /Xtna ”’ (1876), ete. 


Tulloch, Principal John, D.D. (b. 
Perthshire, 1810; d. February 18th, 
1886). ‘* Theism ’’ (1855) ; ‘*‘ Leaders of 
the Reformation’? (1859); ‘‘ English 
Puritanism and its Leaders’’ (1861) ; 
‘¢ Beginning Life’? (1862) ; ‘‘ The Christ 
of the Gospels and the Christ of Modern 
Criticism’ (1864) ; ‘‘ Rational Theology 
and Christian Philosophy in England 
in the Seventeenth Century ’’ (1874); 
‘*Some Facts of Religion and of Life’’ 
(1877); ‘‘ The Church of the Eighteenth 
Century ’’ (1881) ; ‘‘ Modern Theories in 
Philosophy and Religion’? (1884) ; 
‘* Unity and Variety of the Churches of 
Christendom ”’ (1884) ; ‘‘ National Reli- 
gion in Theory and Fact’’ (1856) ; 
‘Religious Thought in Britain during 
the Nineteenth Century ”’ aa, Me- 
moir by Mrs. Oliphant (1888). 


Tupper, Martin Farquhar, D.C.L. 
(b. London, July 17th, 1810; d. Novem- 
ber 29th, 1889). ‘‘ Geraldine and other 
Poems”? (1838); ‘* Proverbial Philo- 
sophy”’ (1838, 1842, 1867); ‘‘ The Modern 
Pyramid ’”’ (1839) ; ‘‘ An Author’s Mind”’ 
(1841); ‘‘The Twins” (1841); ‘The 
Crock of Gold ’’ (1844); ‘* Hactenus, a 
Budget of Lyrics ”’ (1848); ‘‘ Surrey: a 
Rapid Review of its Principal Persons 
and Places” (1849); ‘‘ King Alfred’s 
Poems in English Metre’ (1850); 
‘““Hymns of all Nations, in Thirty 
Languages”? (1851); ‘‘ Ballads for the 
Times, and other Poems’ (18052); 
“Heart,” a tale (1853); ‘‘ Probabili- 
ties : an Aid to Faith ’’ (1854) ; ‘‘ Lyrics” 
(1855); ‘Stephen Langton; or, the 
Days of King John”’ (1858); ‘‘ Rides 
and Reveries of Mr. sop Smith ”’ 
(1858); ‘‘Three Hundred Sonnets” 
(1860); ‘*Cithara: Lyrics”? (1863); 
“Twenty - one Protestant Ballads” 
(1868) ; ‘* A Creed and Hymns ”’ (1870) ; 
Protestant Ballads’’ (1874) ; 
and ‘* Washington’’ (1877); “‘My Life 
as an Author’ (1886). 


Turner, Charles Tennyson (Ὁ. 
Somersby, July 4th, 1808; ἃ. April 25th, 
1879). ‘‘Sonnets’? (1864); ‘‘ Small 
Tableaux’’ (1868) ; and ‘‘Sonnets, Lyrics, 
and Translations’’ (1873). See TENNY- 
son, ALFRED, Baron, supra, and Nine- 
teenth Century, September 1879. 


Turner, Sharon (b. London, Sep- 
tember 24th, 1768; d. London, February 
13th, 1847). ‘History of the Anglo- 
Saxons”’ (1799-1805) ; ‘‘A Vindication of 
the Genuineness of the Antient British 


Tylor 


1430 


Udall 


Poems of Aneurin, Taliesin, Llywarch 
Hen, and Merdhin, with Specimens of 
the Poems” (1803); ‘*A History .of 
England from the Norman Conquest to 
1509”? (1814-23); ‘ Prolusions, on the 
Present Greatness of Britain, on Modein 
Poetry, and on the Present Aspect of 
the World”’ eg? a ‘* History of the 
Reign of Henry VIII.’ (1826); a ‘* His- 
tory of the Reigns of Edward VI., Mary, 
and Elizabeth’? (1829); ‘The Sacred 
History of the World’? (1832); and 
** Richard ITT.,”’ a poem (1845). 


Tylor, Edward B., D.C.L., LL.D. 
(b. Camberwell, October 2nd, 1832). 
**Anahuac, or Mexico and the Mexi- 
cans’? (1861); ‘* Researches into the 
Early History of Mankind’’ (1865) ; 
** Primitive Culture ’’ (1871); ‘* Anthro- 
pology ’’ (1881); ‘Life of Dr. Rolles- 
ton”’ (1884). 


Tynan, Katharine. 
Mrs. Karnanrine.) 


Tyndale, William (b. Gloucester- 
shire, 1484 (7); d. Vilvorde, October 
6th, 1586). ‘*The Obedyence of a 
Christen Man, and how Christen Rulers 
Ought to Governe’’ (1528); ‘The 
Parable of the Wicked Mammon”? (1528); 
‘Exposition on 1 Corinthians vii., with 
a Prologue, wherein all Christians are 
exhorted to read the Scriptures ’’ (1529); 
“The Practyse of Prelates: whether the 
Kynges Grace may be separated from 
hys Quene, because she was hys Brothers 

yfe’’ (1530) ; ‘* A Compendious Intro- 
dueccion, Prologue, or Preface unto the 
Pistle of St. Paul to the Romayns ” 
(1530); a translation of ‘‘The Fyrst Boke 
of Moses called Genesis [with a preface 
and prologue shewinge the use of the 
Scripture] ’’ (1530) ; ‘* The Exposition of 
the Fyrst Epistle of Seynt John, with a 
Prologge before it by W. T.” (1531); 
‘The Supper of the Lorde after the 
true Meanying of the Sixte of John and 
the xi. of the fyrst Epistle to the Corin- 
thias, whereunto is added an Epistle to 
the Reader, and incidentally in the Ex- 
position of the Supper is confuted the 
Letter of Master More against John 
Fyrth”’ (1533); “Α Briefe Declaration 
of the Sacraments expressing the fyrst 
Originall, how they come up and were 
institute,” etc. (1538); ‘* An Exposicion 
upon the v., vi., vii. Chapters of Mathew, 
whych three chapiters are the Keye and 
the Dore of the Scripture, and the re- 
storing again of Moses Lawe, corrupt by 
the Scribes and Pharisees, ete.’’ (1548) ; 
“An Answer unto Sir Thomas More’s 


(See Hinkson, 


Dialogue ;”’ ‘‘ Pathway to Scripture ;” 
and revision of the New Testament 
(1634). A Life of ‘Tyndale, and 
Selections from his Writings, in vol. 
i. of Richmond's ‘Fathers of the 
Church.’’ See also the ** Life’? by Offor 
1836), and that by Demaus (1871). The 

orks were published (with those of 
Frith and Barnes) in 1573 (with those of 
Frith 1831), and edited by Walter, in 
1848-50. Consult Eadie’s ‘‘ History of 
the English Bible’ and Morley’s ** Eng- 
lish Writers,”’ vol. vii. 


Tyndall, John, LL.D. (b. Leighton 
Bridge, near Carlow, Ireland, August 
21, 1820; ἃ, December 4th, 1893). ‘The 
Glaciers of the Alps’’ (1860); ** Moun- 
taineering *’ (1861); “Α΄ Vacation Tour’ 
(1862); ** Heat considered as a Mode 
of Motion’? (1863); ‘*On Radiation ”’ 
(1865); ‘* Sound’? (1867); ‘* Faraday as 
a Discoverer’? (1868); ‘‘ Lectures on 
Light’? (1869); ‘‘The Imagination in 
Science’’ (1870); “ὁ Fragments of Science 
for Unscientitic People ’’ (1871) ; ‘‘ Hours 
of Exercise in the Alps ἢ (1871); ‘‘ Con- 
tributions to Molecular Physics ’’ (1872); 
‘“*The Forms of Water in Clouds and 
Rivers, Ice and Glaciers’’ (1872) ; ‘* Lec- 
tures on Light’’ (1873); ** Address de- 
livered before the British Association ’’ 
(1874); ‘* On the Transmission of Sound 
by the Atmosphere ’’ (1874); ‘* Lessons 
in Electricity ᾽ (1876); ‘‘ Fermentation ”’ 
(1877); ‘* Essays on the Floating Matter 
of the Air’’ (1881); ‘‘ New Fragments”’ 
(1891), ete. 


Tytler, Patrick Fraser (b. Edin- 
burgh, August 30th, 1791; d. Great 
Malvern, Worcestershire, December 
24th, 1849). ‘* Life of the Admirable 
Crichton”? (1819); ‘‘Sir Thomas Craig 
of Riccarton’’ (1823); ‘The Scottish 
Worthies”’ (1832); ‘Sir Walter Ra- 
leigh ’’ (1833) ; and “ King Henry VIII. 
and his Contemporaries ’’ (1837) 5 besides 
his ‘‘ History of Scotland ’’ (1828-1843) ; 
‘*England under the Reigns of Edward 
VI. and Mary” (1839);  ‘‘ Historical 
View of the Progress of Discovery on 
the Northern Coasts of America.’”’ Sve 
Burgon’s ‘‘ Memoir of P. F. T.’’ (1859), 
and the sketch prefixed by Small to the 
last edition of the ‘‘ History of Scotland.” 


U 


Udall, Nicholas (b. Hampshire, 
about 1506; ἃ. 1556). ‘‘ Ralph Roister 


Vanbrugh 


~ 


1431 


Wallace 


Doister " (about 1553), See Arber’s Re- 
tae (1869), and Morley’s ‘‘ English 
riters,’’ vols. viii, and ΧΙ. 


Vv 


Vanbrugh, Sir John (b. 1666; d. 
March 26th, 1726). ‘‘The Relapse’’ 
(1697) ;_‘* The Proyoked Wife’’ (1698): 
‘* Jisop”’ (1698);  ‘*The Pilgrims ”’ 
(τοῦ): ‘* he Confederacy”? (1705). 
See Leigh Hunt’s Biographical and 
Critical notice; Zhe Atheneum, January 
19th, 1861; and Notes and Queries, 2nd 
Series, iii., iv., xi. 

Vaughan, Very Rev. Charles John, 
D.D. (Ὁ. 1816). ‘‘ Memorials of Harrow 
Sundays ”’ (1859); ‘* The Church of the 
First Days’’ (1864-65); ‘‘ Twelve Dis- 
courses on Liturgy and Worship ”’ (1867); 
‘‘ Christ Satisfymg the Instincts of 
Humanity ’’ (1870); ‘‘Sundays in the 
Temple’ (1871); ‘* Temple Sermons ”’ 
(1881) ;.‘‘ University Sermons’’ (1888) ; 
“Prayers of Jesus Christ’? (1891) ; 
‘* Restful Thoughts in Restless Times ”’ 
1899); ‘Last. Words in the Temple 
Church ”’ (1894), ete. 


Vaughan, Henry (b. Newton, near 
Brecon, 1621; d. April 23rd, 1695). 
‘Poems, with the Tenth Satyre of 
Juvenal Englished ’’ (1646); ‘‘ Silex 
Scintillans ”’ (1650-55) ; *‘ Olor Icanus”’ 
(1651) ; “ὙΠῸ Mount of Olives ᾽᾽ (1652) ; 
‘© Flores Solitudinis’’ (1654) ; 
“Thalia Rediviva ’’_ (1678). Poems 
(1847). Complete Works, edited by 
Grosart (1871). Sve the Biography by 
Lyte. 


Veitch, John, LL.D. (Ὁ. Peebles, 
October 24th, 1829; d. September 3rd, 
1894), ‘* The Tweed and other Poems’”’ 
(1874); ‘* Lucretius and the Atomic 
Theory’ (1875); ‘‘ The History and 
Poetry of the Scottish Border ’’ (1877); 
‘*Institutes- of Logic ”’ (1885); . ‘* The 
Feeling for Nature in Scottish Poetry ”’ 
1887); ‘*Merlin and other Poems”’ 
1889); ‘‘ Essays in Philosophy ”’ (1889) ; 
“Dualism and Monism,” etc. ta05): 
‘* Memoirs of Dugald Stewart and Sir 
William Hamilton,”’ etc. 


Ww 


᾿ ‘Wace, Rev. Principal Henry, D.D. 
(Ὁ. London, December 10th, 1836), 
ἐς Christianity and Morality’’ -(1876) ; 


and | 


| ember 9th, 1801). 


‘‘Ethics of Belief” (1877); ‘‘ Founda- 
tions of Faith’’ (1880); ‘‘The Gospel 
and its Witnesses ᾽ (1883); ‘‘ Some Cen- 
tral Points of our Lord’s Ministry ᾽᾽ 
(1890). Joint editor of ‘‘A Dictionary 
of Christian Biography’? and of “Α 
Select Library of Nicene and Post- 
Nicene Fathers.’’ Editor of ‘‘ The 
Speaker’s Commentary on the Apo- 
crypha,”’ 


Wace, Maistre (b. Jersey, about 
1112; ἃ. about 1174). ‘* Chroniques des 
Ducs de Normandie ’’ (1825); ‘‘ Le 
Roman de Rou”’ (1827, new ed. 1876, 
English translation 1837); ‘‘ Le Romande 
Brut ’’ (1836-38); ‘* Vie de Saint Nico- 
las’? (1850); ‘* Vies de la Vierge Marie 
et de S. George’ (1859). See The 
Twtrospective Review (November, 1853) ; 
Wright’s ‘‘ Biographia Literaria ;’’ Mor- 
ley’s ‘‘ English Writers,’’ vol. iii. ; and 
Piaget's ‘**Notice sur la Vie et les 
Ecrits de Robert Wace.”’ 


Wakefield, Gilbert (b. Nottingham, 
February 22nd, 1756; d. London, Sept- 
“Poemata Latine 
partim scripta, partim reddita”’ (1776) ; 
** An Essay on Inspiration” (1781); “Α 
Plain and Short Account of the Nature 
of Baptism”’ (1781); ‘‘ An Enquiry into 
the Opinions of the Christian Writers of 
the Three First Centuries concerning the 
Person of Jesus Christ’? (1784); ‘* Re- 
marks on the Internal Evidence of the 
Christian Religion ”’ (1789) ; ‘‘ Silva Cri- 
tica’’ (1789-95); ‘* An Enquiry into 
the Expediency and Propriety of Public 
or Social Worship ’’ (1792); ‘‘ Evidences 
of Christianity ’’ (1793); ‘‘ An Examina- 
tion of the ‘ Age of Reason,’ by Thomas 
Paine’’ (1794); ‘‘A Reply to Thomas 
Paine’s Second Part of the ‘Age of 
Reason’’’ (1795); ‘‘ Observations on 
Pope’’ (1796); and “ΔΑ Reply to some 
Parts of the Bishop of Llandaff’s Address 
to the People of Great Britain ’’ (1798). 
His Memoirs, written by himself, in 
1792, new ed. 1804; his ‘* Correspond- 
ence with Charles James Fox,” in 1813. 


Wallace, Alfred Russel, D.C.L., 
F.R.S. (b. Usk, Monmouthshire, Janu- 
ary 8th, 1822). ‘Travels in the Amazon 
and Rio Negro”? (1853) ; ‘‘ Contributions 
to the Theory of Natural Selection ”’ 
(1870) ; ‘*‘ The Geographical Distribution 
of Animals”’ (1876); ‘‘ Tropical Nature’’ 
oss) ; ‘‘ Australasia’? (1878); ‘‘ The 

sycho-Physiological Sciences and their 
Assailants’’ (1878); ‘‘Island — Life”’ 
(1880) ; ‘‘ Land Nationalisation ”’ (1882) ; 
‘*Forty-Five Years of Registration 


Waller 


1432 


Ward 


Statistics ’’ (1884) ; ‘* Darwinism”’ (1889), 
ete. 


Waller, Edmund (b. Coleshill, 
Hertfordshire, March 2nd, 1605; ἃ, 
Beaconsfield, October 2Ist, 1687). 


‘* Poems” (1645, new ed., with ‘ Life,’’ 
by Bell, 1871). Works in prose and 
verse, 1729, See Johnson’s ‘ Lives,’’ 
ete, 

Walpole, Horace, fourth Earl of 
Oxford (b. October Sth, 1717; ἃ. March 
Ynd, 1797). ‘* ABdes Walpolianz; or a 
Description of the Pictures at Houghton 
Hall, the Seat of Sir Robert Walpole, 
Earl of Oxford ’’ (1752) ; ‘* Catalogue of 
the Royal and Noble Authors of Eng- 
land, with Lists of their Works ”’ (1758); 
‘* Fugitive Pieces in Prose and Verse’’ 
(1758) ; ‘*Catalogue of the Collections of 
Pictures of the Duke of Devonshire”’ 
(1760); ‘* Anecdotes of Painting in Eng- 
land’? (1762-71); ‘‘Catalogue of En- 
pvravers who have been born or resided 
in England’? (1763); ‘The Castle of 
Otranto’’ (1765); ‘* Historic Doubts on 
the Life and Reign of King Richard 
IIT.’’ (1768) ; ‘‘ The Mysterious Mother ”’ 
(1768); ‘* Miscellaneous Antiquities ”’ 
1772); “ Description of the Villa of 
Horace Walpole at Strawberry Hill” 
(1772); ‘‘ Letter to the Editor of the 
Miscellanies of Thomas Chatterton”? 
(1779) ; ‘*‘ Hieroglyphick Tales ’’ (1785) ; 
“« Essay on Modern Gardening ’’ (1785) ; 
‘** Hasty Productions ”’ (1791); ** Memoirs 
of the Last Ten Years (1751-60) of the 
Reign of George II.’’ (1812); ** Reminis- 
cences’’ (1818) ; ‘‘ Memoirs of the Reign 
of King George III., from his Accession 
to 1771”? (1845); ‘* Journal of the Reign 
of George III., from 1771 to 1783”’ 
(1859) ; and several minor publications. 
"ΕἸ Memoirs,”’ edited by Eliot Warburton, 
in 1851; ‘The Letters of Horace 
Walpole, Earl of Oxford’? edited by 
Peter Cunningham, in 1857). See 
Macaulay’s ‘‘Essays,’’? Scott’s ““ Bio- 
graphies,’’ ‘‘ Lettres de la Marquise du 
Deffand ἃ Horace Walpole” (Paris, 
1864); and Henry Austin Dobson’s 
** Horace Walpole’’ (1890). 


Walpole, Spencer, LL.D. (b. Feb- 
ruary 6th, 1839). ‘‘ Life of the Right 
Hon. Spencer Perceval’? (1874); “Α 
History of England from the Conclusion 
of the Great War in 1815”? (1878-86); 
‘Life of Lord John Russell’’ (1889) ; 
“*The Land of Home Rule”’ (1893), ete. 


Walton, Izaak (b. Stafford, August 
9th, 1593; d. Winchester, December 15th, 
1683). Lives of Donne (1640); Wotton 


(1651); Hooker (1665); Herbert (1670); 
and Sanderson (1678), the first four pub- 
lished together in 1671; ‘* The Compleat 
Angler: or, the Contemplative Man’s 
Recreation ’’ (1653). Life by Dr. Zouch 
in 1814. See also the Lives by Hawkins, 
Nicholas, and Dowling, and Shepherd's 
‘* Waltoniana ”’ (1879). 


Warburton, William, Bishop of 
Gloucester (b. Newark, December 24th, 
1698; d. Gloucester, June 7th, 1779). 
“ἢ Miscellaneous Translations, in Prose 
and Verse, from Roman Poets, Orators, 
and Historians ’’ (1714); ‘* A Critical and 
Philosophical Inquiry into the Causes of 
Prodigies and Miracles, as related by 
Historians, οἷο," (1727); ‘* The Alliance 
between Church and State’’ (1736); ** The 
Divine Legation of Moses Demonstrated”’ 
(1787-41); “Α΄ Vindication of Pope’s 
* Essay on Man’”’ fe a Commentary 
on the same work (1742); ‘‘Julian”’ 
(1750) ; ‘* The Principles of Natural and 
Revealed Religion, occasionally opened 


| and explained”? (1753-54); “Α View of 
_ Lord Bolingbroke’s Philosophy’’ (1756) ; 


‘““The Doctrine of Grace’? (1762), and 
some minor publications. Works edited 
by Bishop Hurd in 1788. Literary Re- 
mains in 1841. His ‘ Letters to the 
Hon. Charles Yorke from 1752 to 1770,”’ 
privately pmnnted in 1812, Dr. Parr 
edited in 1789 ‘* Tracts by Warburton 
and a Warburtonian,’’ and in 1808, 
‘* Letters from a late eminent Prelate to 
one of his Friends’? (Hurd). Works 
(1811). Life by Rev. J. 8S. Watson in 
1863. See also ‘‘ Bibliotheca Parriana,’’ 
The Quarterly Review for June, 1812, 
Isaac d’Israeli’s ‘‘Quarrels of Authors,’’ 
Hunt’s “Religious Thought in Eng- 
land,’’? and Leslie Stephen’s ‘* English 
Thought in the Eighteenth Century.”’ 


Ward, Adolphus William, LL.D., 
Litt.D. (Ὁ. Hampstead, Dec. 2nd, 1837). 
‘History of English Dramatic Litera- 
ture to the Death of Queen Anne”’ 
(1875) ; ‘* Chaucer ’’ (1879) ; ‘‘ Dickens ”’ 
(1882); ‘*The Counter Reformation” 
(1889), ete. Translator of Curtius’ ‘* His- 
tory of Greece,’ editor of The Old 
English Drama series, and of Pope’s 
Poetical Works, ete. 


Ward, Mrs. Humphry, »#/e Mary 
Augusta Arnold (b. Hobart, Tasmania, 
1851). ‘* Milly and Olly ’”’ (1881); ‘‘ Miss 
Bretherton ’’ (1884) ; ““ Robert Elsmere ἢ 
(1888) ; ““ David Grieve ’’ (1892) ; ‘* Mar- 
cella’? (1894); ‘‘Unitarians and the 
Future ’’ (1894) ; “ὙΠῸ Story of Bessie 
Costrell’’ (1895). | Has also translated 
Amiel’s ‘‘ Journal Intime ”’ (1885), 


Ward 


Ward, Wilfrid. ‘‘The Wish to Be- 
lieve’ (1884); ‘‘The Clothes of Re- 
ligion ’’ (1886); ‘‘W. G. Ward and the 
Oxford Movement’? (1889); ‘ W. G. 
Ward and the Catholic Revival ᾽ (1893) ; 
““ Witnesses to the Unseen ”’ (1893), etc. 


Ward, William George, D.D. (b. 
1812; ἃ. 1882). ‘* Ideal of a Christian 
Church ”’ (1844); ‘* Essays on the Philo- 
sophy of Theism’”’ (1888), ete. Edited 
the Dublin Review. See Wilfrid Ward’s 
““W. G. Ward and the Oxford Move- 
ment ’’ (1889), and ‘* W. G. Ward and 
the Catholic Revival ’’ (1893). 


Warner, William (Ὁ. 1558 ; d. 1608). 
““Pan, his Syrinx or Pipe’? (1584); 
** Albion’s England’ (1586); ‘‘ Mene- 
chmi,”’ from Plautus (1595). 

Warren, Samuel, D.C.L. (b. Den- 
bighshire, May 28rd, 1807 ; ἃ. July 29th, 
1877). ‘‘ Passages from the Diary of a 
Late Physician”’ (1832) ; ‘‘ Ten Thousand 
a Year” (1841); ‘‘Now and Then”’ 
(1847); “ΓΘ Lily and the Bee’’ (1851); 
‘*Miscellanies, Critical and Imagina- 
tive’? (1854); “ΠΟΘ Moral and Intel- 
lectual Development of the Age” 
(1854); and several legal works. 
“Works ”’ (1843, 1854). 

Warton, Thoma; (Ὁ. Basingstoke, 
1728 ; ἃ. Oxford, May 21st, 1790). ““ Five 
Pastoral Eclogues’? (1745); ‘‘The 
Pleasures of Melancholy ᾽ (1745) ; ‘‘ The 
Triumph of Isis’ (1749); ‘‘ An Ode for 
Music’ (1751); “ΤΠ Union; or, Select 
Scots and English Poems ᾽ (1753) ; ‘* Ob- 
servations on the Faéry Queene of 
Spenser’? (1753); ‘*The Observer Ob- 
served’? (1756); ‘‘ The Life and Literary 
Remains of Ralph Bathurst, M.D., Dean 
of Wells” (1761); Contributions to the 
Oxford Collection of Verses (1761); 
“Α Companion to the Guide and a Guide 
to the Companion ”’ (1762) ; ‘‘ The Oxford 
Sausage ’’ (1764); an edition of Theo- 
critus (1770); ‘* The Life of Sir Thomas 
Pope” (1772); ‘‘ A History of Kiddington 
Parish”’ (1781); ‘‘ An Inquiry into the 
Poems attributed to Thomas Rowley ’”’ 
(1782); an edition of Milton (1785) ; 
“The Progress of  Discontent,’’ 
“ΕἸ Newmarket, a Satire,’’ ‘‘ A Panegyric 
on Ale,’’ “Α Description of the City, 
College, and Cathedral of Winchester,”’ 
“* History of English Poetry ”’ (1774, 1781, 
new edition 1870). ““ Poetical Works,”’ 
with Memoirs and Notes, by Richard 
Mant, in 1802. See Dennis’s ‘‘ Studies 
in English Literature,’ and Cornhill 
Magazine, 1865, vol. xi. 


Waterland, Daniel (Ὁ. Lincolnshire, | 


1433 


Watson 


Feb. 14th, 1683; d. Dec. 23rd, 1740). 
**Queries in Vindication of Christ’s 
Divinity ’’ (1719); ‘‘Sermons in Defence 
of Christ’s Divinity ’’ (1720); ‘‘ Case of 
Arian Subscription Considered ’’ (1721) ; 
“Α Second Vindication’? (1723); “A 
Further Vindication’’ (1724); “Α Cri- 
tical History of the Athanasian Creed ”’ 
(1724); ‘* The Nature, Obligation, and 
Efficacy of the Christian Sacraments 
Considered ’’ (1730) ; ‘‘ The Importance 
of the Doctrine of the Trinity Asserted ”’ 
(1734); ‘* Review of the Eucharist ”’ 
1737); ‘Scripture Vindicated against 
indal.”? ‘‘ Works” in 1823, with “A 
Review of his Life and Writings.”’ 


Watkins, Ven. Henry William, 
D.D. (Ὁ. 1844). ‘* Religion and Science”’ 
(1879); ‘‘ Modern Criticism Considered 
in its Relation to the Fourth Gospel”’ 
(1890) ; ete. 


Watkinson, Rev. William L. (Ὁ. 
Hull, Aug. s0th, 1838), ““ Mistaken 
Signs,’”’ ete. (1882); ‘‘ John Wicklif”’ 
(1884); ‘* The Influence of Scepticism on 
Character’? (1886); ‘‘Noonday Ad- 
dresses...in ... Manchester ”’ (1890) ; 
ΚΕ Lessons of Prosperity,’ etc. (1890); 
“The Transfigured Sackcloth,’’ ete. 
(1891) ; etc. 


Watson, H. B. Marriott. ‘ Mara- 
huna’’ (1888); ‘‘Lady Faintheart ” 
(1890) ; ‘‘ The Web of the Spider’’ (1891); 
ΚΕ Diogenes of London,”’ etc, (1893). 


Watson, Richard, Bishop of Llan- 
daft (Ὁ. Heversham, Westmoreland, Aug., 
1737; d. Calgarth Park, Westmoreland, 
July 4th, 1816). ‘‘ Institutiones Metal- 
lurgice’’ (1768); ‘‘An Apology for 
Christianity ’’ (1776); ‘‘ Letter to Arch- 
bishop Cornwallis on the Church Reve- 
nues ;’’ ‘*‘Chemical Essays’’ (1781-87); 
“‘ Theological Tracts ’’ (1785) ; ‘‘ Sermons 
on Public Occasions and Tracts on Re- 
ligious Subjects ’’ (1788) ; ‘‘ An Apology 
for the Bible ’’ (1796) ; ‘‘ Principles of the 
Revolution “Vindicated,’’ etc. ‘‘ Anec- 
dotes of the Life of Richard Watson, 
Bishop of Llandaff, written by Himself,” 
in 1817. 

Watson, Thomas (Ὁ. 1560: d. 1592). 
“The Hecatompathia; or, Passionate 
Centurie of Love, divided into two 
parts’? (1582); ‘‘ Amyntas’’ (1585) ; 
‘* Melibceus”’ (1590) ; ‘An Eclogue upon 
the Death of the Right Hon. Sir Francis 
Walsingham ”’ (1590) ; ‘‘ The First Set of 
Italian Madrigals Englished’’ (1590) ; 
“* Aminte Gaudia”’ (1592) ; ‘‘ The Tears 
of Fancie ; or, Love Disdained”’ (1593) ; 
“Compendium Memorize Localis ;’’ and 


Watson 


co_——_ ---- 


a translation of the ‘Antigone’ of 
Sophocles. See Arber’s ‘t English Re- 
prints’? and Morley’s ‘* English Writ- 
ers,’’ vols, ix, and x. 


Watson, William - Wharfedale). 
‘“‘Epigrams of Art, Life, and Nature” 
(1884); ‘* Wordsworth’s Grave,’ ete. 
(1889); ** Poems ”’ (1892) ; ** Lyric Love,”’ 
an anthology (1892); ‘* Lachryme Mu- 
sarum, and other Poems’ (1892); ** Ex- 
cursions in Criticism’? (1893); ‘* The 
Eloping Angels’’ (1893); ‘* Odes, and 
other Poems ’’ (1894). 


Watts, Isaac, D.D. (b. Southamp- 
ton, July 17th, 1674; ἃ. Nov. 26th, 
1748), “Hore Lyricw’” (1706); 
“Ὁ Hymns ’’ (1707); ‘* Guide to Prayer ”’ 
(1715); ** Psalms and Hymns’? (1719); 
“ Divine and Moral Songs for Children ”’ 

1720) ; *‘ Sermons on Various Subjects ”’ 

1721-23); ‘‘ Logic’? (1725); ‘“*The 

‘hristian Doctrine of the Trinity” 
(1726); **On the Love of God”; ‘On 
the Use and Abuse of the Passions” 
Cost **Catechisms for Children and 

outh ’? (1730); ‘* Short View of Serip- 
ture History ’’ (1730); ‘*‘ Humble At- 
tempt towards the Revival of Practical 
Religion”? (1731); ‘‘ Philosophical Es- 
says’? (1734); ‘* Reliquie Juveniles ”’ 
(1734) ;. ‘Essay on the Strength and 
Weakness of Human Reason”? (1737) ; 
“The World to Come” (1738); ‘ The 
Ruin and Recovery of Mankind ᾽ (1740) ; 
‘‘Tmprovement of the Mind” (1741); 
“Orthodoxy and Charity United” 
is ‘“Glory of Christ as God-Man 

Jnveiled”? (1746); ‘‘ Evangelical Dis- 
courses’? (1747); ‘* Nine Sermons 
Preached in 1718-19”? (1812); ‘* Chris- 
tian Theology and Ethics’? with a ‘* Life”’ 
by. Mills, in 1839. Works (1810-12). 
‘Life ’’ by Milner, including the ‘*Corre- 


spondence, 1834; also by Southey, 
Palmer, Gibbons, and Paxton Hood 
(1875). 


, Watts, Walter Theodore (Ὁ. St, 
Ives, 1836). A leading contributor to 
the Encyclopedia Britannica, the Ath- 
eneun, ete. 

Webster, Mrs. Augusta, 7’e¢ Daviss 
(ἃ. Sept. 5th, 1894). ‘* A Woman Sold, 
and other Poems ”’ (1866); ‘ Dramatic 
Studies’? (1866); ‘‘The Auspicious 
Day’’. (1872): ‘ Disguises’’ (1880) ; 
‘©The Sentence’’ (1887); ‘‘ Mother and 
Daughter ” (1895), ete. 


Webster, John (b. late in the 16th 
century; d. about 1654). (With Dekker), 
‘“The Famous History of Sir Thomas 
Wyat’’? (1607); ‘‘ The White Devil” 


1434 


Westcott 


(1612); ‘A Monumental Columne Erected 
to the Loving Memory of Henry, late 
Prince of Wales”’ (1613): “The Devil's 
Law Case” (1623); ‘*The Duchess of 
Malfy ”’ (1623); ‘*The Monument of 
Honour ”’ (1624); ‘‘Appius and Virginia ἢ 
(1654) ; ‘* The Thracian Wonder ”’ (1661) ; 
and (with Rowley) ‘‘A Cure for a 
Cuckold ’’ (1061). ** Works,”’ with Life, 
by Dyce, in 1830; and by W. Hazlitt, 
in 1857. ce Morley’s ‘‘ English Writ- 
ers,”’ vol, xi, 


Wedmore, Frederick (b. Richmond 
Hill, Clifton, ay, 9th, 1844). ‘ The 
Two Lives of Wilfrid Harris ’’ (1868) ; 
‘A Snapt Gold Ring” (1871); ‘‘ Two 
Girls’ (1873); “Studies in English 
Art” q 76 and 1880); ‘‘ Masters of 
Genre Painting’? (1879); ‘“ Four Mas- 
ters of Etching ’’ (1883); ‘‘ Pastorals of 
France ἢ (1877); Life of Balzac (1889); 
** Renunciations ’’ (1893), ete. 


Welldon, Rev. James Edward 
Cowell, D.D. (b. April 25th, 1854). 
‘*Sermons Preached to Harrow Boys”’ 
(1887 and 1891); ‘* The Spiritual Lite ” 
Kret ‘* Gerald Eversley’s Friendship ”’ 
(1895); translations of Aristotle's ‘‘ Poli- 
{165 ᾽ and ** Rhetoric,”’ ete. 


Wesley, Charles W. (b. 1708; ἃ. 
1788), ‘* Hymns and Sacred Poems”’ 
(1749); ‘‘ Hymns for the Nativity” 
(1750); ““ Gloria Patni”? (1753); and 
many other volumes of sacred a 
Sermons, with Memoir (1816). Works 
(1829-31). See Lives by Southey (1820), 
Wedgwood (1870), Tyerman (1870). 

Westcott, Right Rev. Brooke 
Foss, D.D., D.C.L. (b. near Birming- 
ham, January, 1825). ‘‘ The Elements 
of Gospel Harmony” (1851); ‘‘ The 
History of the Canon of the New Testa- 
ment’? (1855); ‘* Characteristics of the 
Gospel Miracles ᾽ (1859) ; ‘‘ Introduction 
to the Study of the Gospels’’ (1860) ; 
“The Bible and the Church’’ (1864) ; 
“ΤῊ Gospel of the Resurrection ” 
1866); “Ὑπὸ History of the English 

ible ’’ (1869); “Οἱ the Religious Office 
of the Universities’’ (1873); ‘‘ The Re- 
visers and the Greek Text of the New 
Testament” (1882); ‘‘The Historic 
Faith” (1883); ‘‘ The Revelation of the 
Father "ἢ (1884) ; “The New Testament 
in Greek’’ (1885): ‘* Christus Consum- 
mator ᾽ (1886) ; ‘Social Aspects of Chris- 
tianity ” (1887); ‘‘ Religious Thought in 
the West’ (1891); ‘The Epistle to the 
Hebrews ”’ (1892) ; “‘ The Gospel of Life ”’ 
(1892); ‘* The Incarnation and Common 
Life’’ (1893); ete. 


Weyman 


1435 


Whyte 


Weyman, Stanley John (Ὁ. Lud- 
low, August 7th, 1855), . ‘‘ The House of 
the Wolt ’’ (1890); ‘*The New Rector ”’ 
(1891); ‘* The Story of Francis Cludde”’ 
(1891); ‘*A Gentleman of France” 
(1893); ‘* The Man in Black” (igen) 
‘Under the Red Robe’ (1894); ‘‘ My 
Lady Rotha’’ (1894); ‘‘ Memoirs of a 
Minister of France ᾽ (1895). 


Whateley, Richard, Archbishop of 
Dublin (b. London; February Ist, 1787 ; 
ἃ. Dublin, October 8th, 1863), ** His- 
torie Doubts. relative to Napoleon ”’ 
(1819) ; “ὙΠῸ Use and Abuse of Party- 
teeling in Matters of Religion’’ (1822); 
“On Some of the Peculiarities of the 
Christian Religion ’’ (1825) ; ‘‘ The Ele- 
ments of Logic ’’ (1827); ‘*On Some Diffi- 
culties in the Writings of St. Paul and 
on other parts of the New Testament ἢ 
(1828) ; ““ Elements of Rhetoric ”’ (1828) ; 
‘* A View of the Scriptural Revelations 
Concerning a Future State’’ (1829) ; 
‘‘ Introductory Lectures on Political 
Economy ”’ (1831); ‘‘ Thoughts on the 
Sabbath ’’ (1832) ; ‘‘ Thoughts on Secon- 
dary Punishment’’ (1832); ‘‘ Essays on 
Some of the Dangers to the Christian 
Faith’ (1839); ‘‘ The History of Re- 
ligious Worship’’ (1847); and ‘*‘A Col- 
lection of English Synonyms’’ (1852) ; 
ete. Life and Correspondence by his 
daughter (1866). See also Fitzpatrick’s 
‘*Memoirs of Whateley ’’ (1864). 

Whetstone, George (temp. Eliza- 
beth). ‘‘ The Rocke of Regard ”’ (1576) ; 
“The right excellent and famous His- 
torye of Promos and Cassandra ᾽ (1578) ; 
“Ὁ An Heptameron of Civill Discourses ᾽ἢ 
(1582); ‘‘A Mirur for Magestrates of 
Cyties”’ (1584); ‘An Addition; or, 
Touchstone of the Time ”’ (1584); ‘‘ The 
Honourable Reputation of a Souldier”’ 
(1486) ; “ὙΠῸ English Myrror’’ (1586) ; 
‘“The Enemie to Unthriftynesse’’ (1586) ; 
“Amelia” (1593); Remembrances of 
Sir Philip Sidney, Sir Nicholas Bacon, 
George Gascoigne, ete. For Biography 
and Criticism, see Warton’s “" English 
Poetry,’’ Ritson’s ‘‘ Bibliographia Poe- 
tica,’’ Beloe’s ‘‘Anecdotes of Literature,”’ 
Brydges’ ‘‘Censura Literaria,” and 
Collier’s ‘‘ Poetical Decameron.” 


Whewell, William, D.D. (Ὁ. Lan- 
cashire, May 24th, 1794; d. March 6th, 
* 1866). ‘‘ Elementary Treatise on Me- 
chanics ’’ (1819) ; ‘‘ Analytical Statics” 
(1833) ; ‘‘ Astronomy and Canara Physics 
considered with reference to Natural 
Theology ᾽ (1833); ‘‘ A History of the 
Inductive Sciences ”’ (1837); ‘‘ The Phi- 
losophy of the Inductive Sciences” 


(1840) ; ‘The Mechanics of Engineering”’ 

(1841) ; ‘‘ Elements of Morality ’’ (1845) ; 
‘“The History of Moral Philosophy in 

England ”’ (1852) ; ete. ‘An Account of 

his Writings, with Selections from his 
Ce ee by I. Todhunter, in 
876. 


White, Rev. Edward (b. London, 
May 11th, 1819). ‘‘ Life in Christ”? (1846); 
‘*Mystery of Growth,” ete. (1867); 
‘* Some of the Minor Moralities of Life ’”’ 
(1868); ‘‘ Life and Death’’ (1877) ; ‘‘ The 
Higher Criticism’? (1892); ‘* Modern 
Spiritualism ’’ (1893), ete. 


White, Henry Kirke (b. Notting- 
ham, August 2180, 1785; ἃ. Cambridge, 
October 19th, 1806) was the author of 
‘* Clifton Grove ’’ and other poems, pub- 
lished in 1803. Remains were edited, 
with a ‘“ Life,’ by Southey. Sve also 
the Biography by Sir Harris Nicolas. 


White, Joseph Blanco (b. 1775; 
ἃ. 1841). ‘‘ Letters from Spain by Don 
Leucadio Dollado”’ (1821); ‘ Practical 
and Internal Evidence against Catholie- 
ism ’’ (1826); ““ Second Travels of an Irish 
Gentleman in Search of a Religion”’ 

1883). He was also the editor of the 

London Review, as wellas of two Spanish 
journals. His sonnet “Τὸ Night ”’ was 
called by Coleridge the finest in the lan- 
guage. See ‘‘ Lite of Rev. Joseph Blanco 
White, written by Himself, with por- 
tions of his Correspondence,’’ edited by 
John Hamilton Thom (1848). 


White, William Hale, ‘“ Reuben 
Shapcott’’ (Ὁ. Bedford, December 22nd, 
1831). ‘The Autobiography of Mark 
Rutherford ’’ (1881); ‘‘Mark Ruther- 
ford’s Deliverance’? (1885); ‘‘The 
Revolution in Tanner’s Lane” (1887); 
‘* Miriam’s Schooling ᾽᾽ (1889); ‘‘ Cathe- 
rine Furze” (1893); translation of 
Spinoza’s ‘Ethic’? (1883) and ‘De 
Emendatione Intellectus”’ (1896). 

Whitehead, Charles (Ὁ. 1801; d. 
1862). ‘‘ Autobiography of Jack Ketch”’ 
(1834); ‘Richard Savage” (1842); 
‘* Karl of Essex ’’ (1843); ‘‘ Smiles and 
Tears’? (1847); ‘‘ Life of Sir Walter 
Raleigh”? (1854). See ‘“‘A Forgotten 
Genius,” by H. T. Mackenzie Bell 


Whyte, Rev. Alexander, D.D. 
b. Kirriemuir, 1837). ‘The Shorter 
atechism’’ (1883); ‘‘ Characters and 
Characteristics’? of W. Law (1893) ; 
‘**Bunyan’s Characters’’ (1893, etc.) ; 
‘‘Jacob Behmen’”’ (1894); ‘* Samuel 
Rutherford and Some of His Correspon- 
dents”’ (1894), ete. 


Whyte-Melville 


Whyte-Melville, George John (b. 
1821 ; 4. December 5th, 1878). ‘* Digby 
Grand’? (1853); ‘*General Bounce ”’ 
(1854) ; ** Kate Coventry’’ (1856) ; ‘* The 
Interpreter ’’ (1858) ; ‘‘ Holmby House ”’ 
(1860) ; ‘*Good for Nothing” (1861) ; 
“Tilbury Nogo’” (1861); ‘* Market 
Harborough” (1861); ‘*The Gladiators”’ 
(1863); ‘‘ Brookes of Bridlemere”’ (1864); 
**The Queen’s Maries’’ (1864); ‘‘ Cerise’’ 
(1865) ; ** Bones and I’ (1868) ; ‘‘ The 
White Rose’? (1868); ‘*M. or N.” 
(1869) ; ‘Contraband ’’ (1870) ; ‘‘ Sar- 
chedon’’ (1871); ‘‘Satanella’’ (1872) ; 
‘The True Cross’’ (1873); ‘*Uncle 
John ’’ (1874); " Sister Louise ᾽᾽ (1875) ; 
“* Katerfelto’’ (1875); ‘* Rosine’’ (1876); 
** Roy’s Wife ’’ (1878) ; and ** Black but 
Comely’’ (1879). 

Wilberforce, Samuel, D.D., Bishop 
of Oxford and Winchester (Ὁ, Clapham 
Common, September 7th, 1805: d. July 
19th, 1872). ** Life of Mr. Wilberforce,’ 
his father (1838); ‘‘ Agathos,”’ ete. (1840); 
ἐς Eucharistica’’ (1840); ‘* The Rocky 
Island,’’ etc. (1840); ‘* History of the 
Episcopal Church in America’? (1844); 
“Heroes of Hebrew History ’’ (1870) ; 
“ Essays’? (1874); ‘‘ Charges and Ser- 
mons,’’ ete. Life by Canon Ashwell and 
Rk. G. Wilberforce; also by G. W. 
Danie!. 

Wilde, Jane Francesca Speranza, 
Lrdy, γιός Elgee. ‘‘ Ugo Bassi’”’ (1857) ; 
‘Poems’ (1864); “ Driftwood from 
Scandinavia ”’ (1884); ‘‘ Ancient Legends 
... of Ireland’ (1887) ; ‘‘ Ancient Cures, 
Charms, and Usages of Ireland ’’ (1890) ; 
‘“* Notes on Men, Women, and Books”’ 
(1891) ; ‘* Social Studies’? (1893); trans- 
lations from the French and German, 
etc. 


Wilde, Oscar Fingall O’Flahertie 
Wills (Ὁ. Dublin, 1856). “ Poems” 
(1881); ‘‘The Happy Prince,’ etc. 
(1888); “ΧΑ House of Pomegranates ”’ 
(1891); ‘‘ Lord Arthur Savile’s Crimes,”’ 
ete. (1891); ‘The Picture of Dorian 
Grey” (1891); ‘Intentions’? (1891); 
“Tiady Windermere’s Fan’? (1893) ; 
‘“‘Salomé,”? in French (1893); ‘A 
Woman of No Importance”’ (1894); 
“The Sphinx ”’ (1894). 

Wilkes, John (b. Clerkenwell, Octo- 
ber 17th, 1727; ἃ, London, December 
27th, 1797). ‘‘An Essay on Woman”’ 
(1763) ;_‘‘ Speeches ’”? (1777-9 and 1786); 
and ‘ Letters’? (1767, 1768, 1769, and 
1804). ‘Life’? by Baskerville in 1769, 
by Watson 1870, by Craddock in 1772, 
by Almon in 1805, and by W. F. Rae in 
1873. 


1436 


| (1847). 


Winter 


΄ 


William of Malmesbury (b. 1095; 
ἃ. about 1142). ‘*Gesta Regum An- 
glorum,’’ ‘* Historia Novella,’’ “ὁ Gesta 
Pontificum,’’ ete., in the “ὁ Scriptores 
post Bedam,”’ edited by Sir Henry 
Saville. Of the first two, there is an 
edition by Sir Duffus Hardy, published 
in 1840 for the Historical Society. An 
English translation by the Rev. John 
Sharpe, issued in 1815, formed the basis 
of that made by Dr. Giles, which is in- 
cluded in Bohn’s ‘* Antiquarian Library ”’ 
See also Morley’s ‘‘ English 
Writers,”’ vol. iii. 


Wilson, Sir Daniel (b. Edinburgh, 
January 5th, 1816; d. August 6th, 1892). 
‘*Memorials of Edinburgh in the Olden 
Time’’ (1846-48); ‘Oliver Cromwell 
and the Protectorate’? (1848); ‘ The 
Archeology and Prehistoric Annals of 
Scotland "ἢ (1851); ‘* Prehistoric , Man: 
Researches into the Origin of Civilisation 
in the Old and New Worlds’’ (1863) ; 
‘“Chatterton: a Biographical Study” 
(1869); ‘‘Caliban”’ (1873); ‘Spring 
Wild Flowers;’’? and ‘*The Lost At- 
lantis ’’ (1892). 


Wilson, George ‘ia Edinburgh, Feb- 
ruary 21st, 1818; ἃ. November 22nd, 
1859), ‘Life of Cavendish’? (1861) ; 
‘‘ Life of Reid’ (1852); “ὙΠῸ Five 
Gate-Ways of Knowledge’? (1856) ; 
‘* Paper, Pen, and Ink; ”’ various scien- 
tific treatises; ‘‘ Life of Professor Ed- 
ward Forbes’? (1861). Memoir by his 
sister (1866). 


Wilson, John (‘Christopher North’’) 
(Ὁ. Paisley, May 18th, 1785; ἃ, Edin- 
burgh, April 3rd, 1824). ‘‘ The Isle of 
Palms” (1812); ‘‘The City of the 
Plague ” (1816); ‘‘ Lights and Shadows 
of Scottish Life”? (1822); ‘‘The Trials 
of Margaret Lindsay ’’ (1823); ‘‘ The 
Foresters ’’ (1824); ‘‘ Essay on the Life 
and Genius of Robert Burns” (1841) ; 
and ‘‘ Recreations of Christopher North’”’ 
(1842). Poems and Dramatic Works 
collectively in 1825, His complete Works, 
edited by Professor Ferrier, in 1855-8. 
‘‘ Life’? by his daughter, Mrs. Gordon 
(1863). 


Winter, John Strange, vere Mrs. 
Henrietta Eliza Vaughan Stannard (b. 
York, January 13th, 1856). ‘‘ Cavalry 
Life ’’ (1881); ‘‘ Bootles’ Baby ”’ (1885); 
‘‘ Houp-la’’? (1886); ‘* Pluck’ (1886) ; 
“On March” (1886); ‘* Mignon’s 
Secret ’’ (1886); ‘* Mignon’s Husband ”” 
(1887) ; ‘* That Imp” (1887) ; ‘‘ Bootles’ 


Wither 


1437 


Woolner 


Children’’ (1888); ‘‘ Confessions of a 
Publisher ’’ (1888); ‘ Buttons ᾽ (1889) ; 
“Mrs. Bob”’ (1889); ‘‘ Dinna Forget ”’ 
(1890); ‘‘ Ferrers Court’’ (1890); ‘‘ He 
Went for a Soldier ’’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Harvest”’ 
(1891); ‘‘ Lumley the Painter ᾽" (1891); 
“*The Other Man’s Wife ”’ (1891) ; ‘‘Only 
Human” (1892); ‘‘A Man’s Man’”’ 
(1893); ‘That Mrs. Smith’ (1893); 
“* Aunt Johnnie’’ (1893); ‘ The Soul of 
a Bishop’? (1893); ‘‘A Born Soldier ’”’ 
(1894); ‘* A Seventh Child ᾽" (1894); ‘ 

Magnificent Young Man”? (1895), ete. 


Wither, George (b. Brentworth, 
near Alton, Hampshire, June 11th, 
1588; d. May 2nd, 1667).  ‘‘ Prince 
Henry’s Obsequies; or, Mournefull 
Elegies upon his Death’ (1612); 
“Abuses Stript and Whipt; or, Satiri- 
call Essayes’’ (1613); ‘‘ Epithalamia ”’ 
(1613) ; “Ἃ Satyre written to the King’s 
most excellent Majestye’’ (1614); ‘‘ The 
Shepheard’s Pipe’? (1614, written with 
Browne) ; ‘‘ The Shepheards Hunting ἢ 
(1615); ‘‘ Fidelia’’ (1617); ‘‘ Wither’s 
Motto’’ (1618); ‘‘ A Preparation to the 
Psalter’? (1619); ‘‘ Exercises upon the 
First Psalmes, bothin Verse and Prose ”’ 
(1620); ‘* The Songs of the Old Testa- 
ment, translate 1 into English Measures” 
(1621); ‘* Juvenilia’’ (1622); ‘ Le 
Mistress of Philarete ” (poems, 1622 
“The Hymnes and Songs of the Ghirck % 
(1623) ; ** The Scholler’s Purgatory, dis- 
covered in the Stationer’s Common- 
described in a Discourse 
(1625-26) ; ““ Britain’s 
Remembrancer, containing a Narrative 
of the Plague lately past ”’ (1628) ; “The 
Psalmes of David translated into ‘Lyrick 
Verse”? (1632); ‘Collection of “Em- 
blemes’’ (1635); ‘* Nature of Man”’ 
(1636); ‘‘ Read and Wonder " (1641); 
“A Prophesie’’ (1641) ; ‘* Hallelujah” 
ΟΕ: Ὁ Campo Muse *’ (1643) ; ‘‘Se 
Defendendo ” (1643); ‘* Mercurius Rus- 
ticus”’? (1643); ‘‘The Speech without 
Doore”’ (1644) ; ‘‘ Letters of Advice 
touching the Choice of Knights and 
Burgesses for the Parliament” (1644) ; 
etc. See Wood’s ‘‘Athenz Oxonienses,” 
Brydges’ ‘‘ Censura Literaria,” ‘‘ British 
Bibliographer,’”’ and ‘ Restituta ;’’? an 
essay on Wither’s Works by Charles 
Lamb, Willmott’s ‘‘ Lives of the Sacred 
Poets,’? and Farr’s Introduction to his 
edition of the ‘‘ Hallelujah.” 


Wolcot, John, M.D.(‘‘ Peter Pindar”) 
(b. Dodbrooke, Devonshire, May, 1738 ; 
d. January 13th, 1819). “The Lousiad ” 
(1786). Works (1794- 1801). <A Life of 


wealth, and 
Apologeticall”’ 


| Character and Conduct ’’ in 1803. 


him is included in the ‘‘ Annual Bio- 
graphy and Obituary ἢ for 1820. 

Wollstonecraft, Mary, Mrs. God- 
win (Ὁ. 1759; d. 1797). ‘Thoughts on 
the Education of Daughters’? (1787) ; 
‘““Female Reader; or, Miscellaneous 
Pieces ”’ (1789) ; ‘‘ Moral and Historical 
Relation of the French Revolution ”’ 
(1790); ‘‘ Original Stories from Real 
Life’’ (1791); ‘‘A Vindication of the 
Rights of Women, with Strictures on 
Political and Moral Subjects’? (1792) ; 
“Origin and Progress of the French 
Reyolution, and its Effects on Europe ”’ 
(1795); and ‘‘ Letters Written during a 
Short Residence in Sweden, Norway, 
and Denmark’ (1796). Posthumous 
Works, with a Memoir, by William 
Godwin, in 1798. A ‘‘ Defence of their 
Her 
Letters edited, with Memoir, by Kegan 
Paul (1878). 

Wolseley, Garnet Joseph, Field- 
Marshal Viscount, K.P., D.C.L., 


’ LL.D. (Ὁ. near Dublin, June 4th, 1833). 


“ Narrative of the War with China in 
1860”? (1861) ; ‘‘ The Soldier’s Pocket- 
book for Field Service ’’ (1869) ; ‘* Field 
Pocket-book for the Auxiliary Forces ”’ 
(1873) ; ‘‘ Life of John Churchill, Duke 
of Marlborough, to the Accession of 
Queen Anne ”’ (1894); ‘‘ Decline and Fall 
of Napoleon ”’ (1895). 

Wood, Anthony ἃ (b. Oxford, 
December 17th, 1632; d. November 
29th, 1695). ‘* Historia et Antiquitates 
Universitatis Oxoniensis ’’ (1674); ‘* A- 
thenz Oxonieuses’’ (1691-92); ‘‘ Fasti; 
or, Annals of the said University ; ”’ 
and ‘‘A Vindication of the Historio- 
grapher of the University of Oxford and 
his Works from the reproaches of the 
Bishop of Salisbury ”? [Burnet] in 1693. 
A Life of Wood in 1711, another in 1772. 
See also that by Rawlinson (1811), and 
Bliss (1848), and Macmillan’s Magazine 
for July and August of 1875. 


Wood, Mrs. Henry (b. 1820; d. 
February 10th, 1887). ‘‘ East Lynne ”’ 
(1861) ; ‘* The Channings ”’ (18:2); ‘‘ Mrs. 
Halliburton’s Troubles’’ (1862); ‘‘ The 
Shadow of Ashlydyat”’ (1863) : “The 
Foggy Night at Offord’’ (1863); ‘‘ St. 
Martin’s Eve’’ (1866) ; ‘‘ A Life’s Secret’’ 
(1867) ; “Roland Yorke” (1869) ue Dene 
Hollow”? (1871); ‘‘ Johnny Ludlow ” 
(1874-85) ; “Edina ” (1876) ; ‘‘ Pomeroy 
Abbey ”’ (1878); ‘‘ Court Netherleigh”’ 
(1881); ‘‘About Ourselves’’ (18833) ; 
and several posthumous works. 


Woeolner, Thomas, R.A. (Ὁ. Had- 
leigh, Suffolk, December 17th, 1826; 


Wordsworth 


ἃ. October 7th, 1892). ‘Silenus’”’ 
1884); ‘* Tiresias’’ (1886); ‘* Nelly 
ale’? (1887); ‘‘My Beautiful Lady ”’ 

(1887), ete. 


Wordsworth, Charles, D.D., 


Bishop of St. Andrews (b. Bock- 
ing, Essex, 1806; ἃ. December 4th, 
1892). ‘‘ Shakespeare’s Knowledge and 


Use of the Bible’? (1854); “ὙΠΟ Out- 
lines of the Christian Ministry Deline- 
ated and Brought to the Test of Reason, 
Holy Scripture, History, and Ex- 
perience’ (1872); ‘*Catechesis; or, 
Christian Instruction;’? ΧΑ Greek 
Primer ;’’ ‘‘ Annals of my Life ’’ (1891); 
‘* Primary Witness to the Truth of the 
Gospel,”’ ete. (1892). 

Wordsworth, Christopher, D.D. 
(b. Cockermouth, June 4th, 1774; d. 
Buxted, Sussex, 1846). ‘* Ecclesiasti- 
cal Biography ; or, the Lives of Eminent 
Men connected with the History of 
Religion in England from the Reforma- 
tion to the Revolution’? (1809); ** Ser- 
mons on Various Occasions ”’ (1815), ete. 


Wordsworth, Christopher, D.D., 
Bishop of Lincoln (b. 1807 ; d. 1885). 
‘Memoirs of William Wordsworth; ”’ 
“Theophilus Anglicus ;’’ an edition of 
the Greek Testament, with notes; an 
edition of the Old Testament in the 
Authorised Version, with Notes and 
Introduction; ‘‘The Holy Year;” 
‘Original Hymns: ᾽ ‘‘ Greece, Histori- 
cal, Pictorial, and Descriptive ;’’ ‘‘ Ser- 
mons on the Church of Iveland;’’ and 
the ‘‘ Correspondence of Richard Bent- 
ley.” 

Wordsworth, Dorothy (d. 1855). 
‘* Recollections of a Tour made in Scot- 
land in 1803 ᾽ (1874). 


Wordsworth, Right Rev. John, 
D.D., LL.D. (b. Harrow, September 
2st, 1843). ‘Lectures Introductory to 
a History of Latin Literature ’’ (1870) ; 
‘« The One Religion ’’ (1881); ‘On the 
Roman Conquest of Southern Britain”’ 
(1889), ete. 


Wordsworth, William (b. Cocker- 
mouth, April 7th, 1770; ἃ. Rydal Mount, 
April 23rd, 1850). ‘‘ An Evening Walk ”’ 
(printed 1793); ‘* Descriptive Sketches "ἢ 
(1798) ; ‘* Lyrical Ballads ἢ [with Cole- 
ridge] (1798) ; ‘‘ The Excursion ᾽᾽ (1814) ; 
“ΤῊ White Doe of Rylstone’’ (1815) ; 
“The Waggoner ”’ (1819) ; ‘‘ Peter Bell” 
(1819); ‘‘ Yarrow Revisited, and other 
Poems”? (1835); ‘‘ The Borderers ’’ (1842) ; 
and other works, including ‘‘ Ecclesiasti- 
cal Sketches,’ and ‘‘Sonnets on the 


1438 


says on Archeologi 


Wright 


River Duddon.”’ For Biography, see the 
Lives by Dr. Wordsworth, G. S. Philli 
Paxton Hood, and Myers (1881); article 
by Lockhart in The Quarterly Review 
(vol. xcii.), Crabb Robinson’s * Diary,’’ 
Julian Young’s ‘‘ Reminiscences,’’ and 
Dorothy Wordsworth’'s ‘‘ Tour in Scot- 
land.”’ For Criticism, see Shairp’s 
‘* Studies in Poetry and Philosophy,” 
Hutton’s Essays, Brimley’s Essays, Jet. 
frey’s Essays, Hazlitt’s “English Poets ”’ 
and “Spirit of the Age,’’ Masson's 
Essays, i W. Robertson's ‘* Lectures 
and Addresses,’? De Quincey’s Miscel- 
laneous Works, Gilfillan’s ‘* Gallery of 
Portraits,’’ Brooke’s ‘‘ Theology in the 
English Poets,’ Sir Francis Doyle's 
“Lectures on Poetry,” and Knight's 
‘““The English Lake District,’’ as in- 
terpreted by Wordsworth (1878), A 
complete edition of Wordsworth’s Trose 
Works, edited by the Rev. A. B. Gro- 
sart, appeared in 1875; and of his 
Poetical Works, edited by Mr. John 
Morley, in 1888. In this edition the first 
book of ‘‘ The Recluse ”’ was for the first 
time published in its entirety. Selected 
Poems, by Arnold (1879). 


Wotton, Sir Henry (Ὁ. Boughton, 
Malherbe, Kent, March 30th, 1368 : d. 
December, 1639). ‘*The Elements of 
Architecture ”’ σοὶ “Ad Regem e 
Scotia reducem Henrici Wottonii Plausus 
et Vota’’ (1633); ‘‘A Parallel between 
Robert late Earl of Essex and George late 
Duke of Buckingham ”’ (1641) ; ‘‘ A Short 
View of the Life and Death of George 
Villiers, Duke of Buckingham ”’ (1642) ; 
‘The State of Christendom ”’ (1657) ; and 
Panegyrick of King Charles, being Ob- 
servations upon the inclination, Life and 
Government of our Sovereign Lord the 
King.” “The Reliquie Wottonian»,” 
containing Lives, Letters, Poems, with 
Characters of Sundry Personages, and 
other Incomparable Pieces of Language 
and Art, by Sir Henry Wotton, Kt., 
appeared in 1651. The Poems were 
edited by Dyce for the Percy Society, 
and by Dr. Hannah in 1845. See the 
Life by Izaak Walton, Wood's ‘‘Athenz 
Oxonienses,’””? and Brydges’ ‘ British 
Bibliographer.”’ 


Wright, Thomas (b. Ludlow, 
Shropshire, April 21st, 1810; ἃ. Chelsea, 
December 23rd, 1877). ‘‘ Queen Eliza- 
beth and her Times”’ (1838); ‘‘ England 
Under the House of Hanover ’”’ (1848) ; 
‘The Celt, the Roman, and the Saxon”’ 

1852); ‘* Domestic Manners in England 
uring the ἐπα χὰ Ate " (1861); “Ἐ5- 
Subjects’’. (1861); 


Wright 


1439 


Young 


«Α History of Caricature and the Gro- 
tesque in Literature and Art” (1865); 
‘“Womankind in Western Europe” 
(1869), ete., besides editions of .‘‘ The 
Canterbury Tales,”’ ‘‘ The Vision of Piers 
Plowman,”’ etc. 


Wright, Thoma: (Ὁ. Cowper School, 
Olney, May 16th, 1859). ‘‘ The Town 
of Cowper ”’ (1886); ‘‘ Life of William 
Cowper” (1892); ‘‘Life of Daniel 
Defoe ”’ (1894). 


Wyatt, Sir Thomas (b. Allington, 
Castle, Kent, 1503; ἃ. Shelbourne, 
October llth, 1542). Poems, with 
Memoir, in 1831. See Nott’s ‘ Life of 
Wyatt,’’ Minto’s ‘‘Characteristics of 
English Poets,’’ and Morley’s ‘‘ English 
Writers,’’ vol. viii. 

Wycherley, William (Ὁ. Clive, near 
Shrewsbury, 1640; d. London, January 
Ist, 1715). ‘*‘ Love in a Wood” (1672); 
“The Gentleman Dancing 
(1673); ‘‘The Country Wite’’ (1675); 


and ‘‘ The Plain Dealer’’ (1677). ‘‘ Works | 


in Prose and Verse’’ in 1728, and his 
Plays, with those of Congreve, Van- 
brugh, and Farquhar, in 1842. ‘‘ Mis- 
cellany Poems,” in 1704. 


Wycliffe, John (b. Spresswall, near 
Old Richmond, Yorkshire, 1324; d. 
Lutterworth, December 31st, 1384). 
“Wryclyffe’s Wycket”’ (1546); ‘‘ The True 
Copye of a Prolog written about two C 
Years past by John Wycliffe, the origi- 
nal whereof is founde in an old English 
Bible, betwixt the Olde Testament and 
the Newe”’ (1550); ‘‘ Two Short Trea- 
tises against the Orders of the Begging 
Friars,”’ edited, with a Glossary, by Dr. 
James (1608); ‘‘The Last Age of the 
Church, now first printed from a Manu- 
script in the University Library, Dublin,”’ 
edited, with notes, by Dr. Todd (1840) ; 
‘‘ An Apology for Lollard Doctrines, at- 
tributed to Wickliffe, now first printed 
from a MS., with an Introduction and 
Notes,’’ by Dr. Todd (1842); ‘‘ Tracts 
and Treatises of John de Wycliffe, D.D., 
with selections and translations from his 
Manuscripts and Latin Works, with an 
introductory Memoir by Robert Vaughan, 
D.D.”’ (1845). See the publications of the 
Wycliffe Society; ‘‘Fasciculi Zizanio- 
rum Magistri Johannis Wycliff,”’ edited 
by W. W. Shirley (1858); the Life by P. 
F. Tytler (1826); the Life by Le Bas 
(1823); the Life in Foxe’s ‘‘ Acts and 
Monuments,’’ which is also given in vol. 
i. of Wordsworth’s ‘‘ Ecclesiastical Bio- 
graphy’; and Lechler’s, translated with 
notes by Lorimer (1876). Wycliffe’s 


Master”? | 


‘Select English Works,’’ edited by T. 
Arnold in 1871. 

Wyntoun, Ardrew (circa 1395- 
1420). ‘“‘The Orygynale Cronykil of 
am best edition Laing’s (1872- 
1879). 


Y 


Yeats, William Butler (b. Sandy- 
mount, Dublin, June 13th, 1865). ‘‘ The 
Wanderings of Oisin,”’ etc. (1889) ; ‘‘ The 
Countess Kathleen’? (1892); ‘‘ The 
Celtic Twilight ”’ (1893); ‘* The Land of 
Heart’s Desire”? (1894). Has edited 
Irish Fairy Tales, Blake’s Poems, ete. 


Yonge, Charlotte Mary (b. 1823). 
“The Heir of Redcliffe’? (1853); 
“ Heartsease ’’ (1854); ‘‘ The Daisy 
Chain ”’ (1856); ‘‘ The Chaplet of 
Pearls’’ (1868) ; ‘‘ Lady Hester ᾽᾽ (1873); 
‘“My Young Alcides’”? (1875); ‘‘ The 
Three Brides’’ (1876); ‘‘ Magnum Bo- 
num’ (1879); ‘‘ Stray Pearls’’ (1883) ; 
“The Two Sides of a Shield’’ (1885) ; 
‘““A Modern Telemachus’’ (1886) ; 
“Under the Storm’ (1887); “Α Re- 

uted Changeling” (1889); ‘‘ Life of 
HLR OH. the Prince Consort’? (1889) ; 
“The Cunning Woman’s Grandson ”’ 
(1890) ; ‘‘ More By-Words ᾿ (1890); 
“ΤῊ Slaves of Sabinus”’ (1890) ; ‘‘ Two 
Penniless Princesses’’ (1891); ‘‘ The 
Constable’s Tower ”’ (1891); ‘‘ The Cross 
Roads ”’ (1892) ; ** An Old Woman’s Out- 
look in a Hampshire Village’’ (1892); 
“*That Stick’? (1892); ‘‘The Treasures 
in the Marshes’ (1893); ‘‘ Grisly 
Grisell ’’ (1893) ; ‘* Beecheroft at Rock- 
stone ”’ (1593), etc. 


Young, Arthur (b. Bradfield, Suf- 
folk, September 7th, 1741; d. Bradfield, 
April 12th, 1820). “Α Six Weeks’ Tour 
through the Southern Counties ᾽ (1768) ; 
** A Six Months’ Tour through the North 
of England” (1771); ‘‘ Travels during 
1787-90”? (1793); ete. Forty-five vol- 
rr of *‘ Annals of Agriculture’’ (begun 
1784), 

Young, Edward (Ὁ. Upham, 
Hampshire, June, 1681; d. Welwyn, 
April 9th, 1765). ‘‘ The Last Day” 
(1713); ‘‘ Epistle to the Right Honour- 
able Lord Lansdowne”’ (1713); ‘‘ The 
Force of Religion; or, Vanquished Love’’ 
(1713) ; ‘‘ On the late Queen’s Death, and 
his Majesty’s Accession to the Throne ”’ 

1714); ‘‘ Paraphrase on the Book of 
ob” (1719); ** Busiris, King of Egypt”’ 


| (1719); * The Revenge”’ (1721); ‘“‘ The 


Young 


Universal Passion ’’ (1725-26) ; ‘* Ocean, 
an Ode”’ (1728); ‘‘ The Brothers ”’ (1728); 
‘“‘An Estimate of Human Life ᾽ (1728); 
“An Apology for Princes; or, the Reve- 
rence due to Government ᾽ (1729); ‘* Im- 
perium Pelagi, a Naval Lyrick ”’ (1730) ; 
‘*Two Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning 
the Authors of the Age sie M750): “ The 
Foreign Address’? (1734); ‘The Com- 
plaint; or, Night Thoughts on Life, 

eath, and Immortality’? (1742-43); 


“The Consolation, to which are annexed | 


some Thoughts occasioned by the present 
Juncture’’ (1745); ‘* The Centaur not 
Fabulous ἢ gid ‘“‘An Essay on the 
Writings and Genius of Pope’ (1756); 
“Conjectures on Original Cctepeaiion, 
in a Letter to the Author of Sir Charles 
Grandison ᾽ (1759); and ‘* Resignation, 
in Two Parts’’ (1762). ‘‘ Works” in 


1440 


Zangwill 


1757, and, with a ‘‘ Life ἢ of the author, 


in 1802; ‘Poetical Works,’’ with a 
‘*Memoir’’ by the Rev. J. Mitford, in 
1834, and again in 1841; his ‘* Works, 
Poetical and Prose,’’ with a ‘* Life "ἢ by 
Doran, in 1851; and his ‘ Poetical 
Works,”’ edited, with a ‘Life,’ by 
Thomas, in 1852. 


Zangwill, I. (b. London, 1561). “ΤῊ 
Bachelors’ Club’ (1891); ‘ The Bi 
Bow Mystery”’ (1892); ‘*Children ὁ 
the Ghetto’’ (1892); ‘** The Old Maids’ 
Club” (1892); “Ghetto Tragedies ”’ 
1893); ‘*The King of Schnorrers”’ 
£1894); “The Master”? (1895). 


THE END. 


eee τως ee Le ee SS Ae ee ee 
Prixtep By CASSELL & Company, Lusitep, La BELLE Sauvace, LONDON, E.C. 


RY FACILITY 


N REGIONAL LIBRA 


WIM 


001 0 


o 
Ww 
ἘΞ 
ΕΞ 
=) 
ro} 
wn 
oO 
> 


------2::-. 
1ΞΞΞ -------τὶ 


| 


| 


\ 


| 


| 


38 827 


" 


| 


| 


| 


i 


| 


Kh 


| 
| 


LEI 


