'^^.VV'V.'*^.*- 


K.y 


m 


^ 


J        T"ar- 


'f^m 


r^^^ 


^fe^ 


^ 


'^s^ 


,?^- 


•r^r  :> 


■$*^ 


DICTIONARY 

OF 

Phrase  and  Fable 

GIVING    THE 

Dcn'vatiou^  Source,  or  On's^in  of  Coinmou  Phrases,  AIIhsvjus, 
and   Wiirds  that  Inwc  a   Talc  to   Tell 


BY    THE    REV. 

E.    COBHAAl     BREWER,    LL.D. 


NEW    EDITION 
REVISED,    CORRECTED,    AND    ENLARGED 


TO    WHICH    IS    ADDED 

A  CONCISE    BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 


100th    THOUSAND 


CASSELL     AND     COMPANY,     Limited 

LONDON,     PARIS    £-     MELBOURNE 
1895 

ALL    RIGHTS    RF.SERVED 


PN 


ctfn\a,-(\oleA     oAe    oivi\i^   u.nV\«Mo*cn\A<  A  ,  OlimV    Vixc    rtieiv'i  tUiAUc-  vu\(AtoV    IoKct* 
VT\   \l\f  yTr\ft.Wtfv   /-mvaVvA    ui^AvH.    o-u-a    CaUitMi  \1>e   Wtn.i»(>.      ini  \f!\a.  iV  Wi\WV» 

yJ^AO^e  CM\(A  J'al'U  a,lv-anA  dot  naJ  tcei>  iaVviO  iri-  IW  atCvA  ((.U^rvmi 
>rMrveTi\MvV  'K»T>>  U'Wui  owMu.4iv^{«  i^^w\ee/ .  „^io^»  ma.<\  tme-^rumA  JV  ^Ke^ 
vDuK  CtnvM^'iA  i4  6nAv\e.  .-niw  /■n\c\^Ut,'t.  ,  Ji-m«  J  5'!'  {•ayl'*  ex  WxitO  txnut  lecrt 
^>AJI«cI     otvd   O/U    mi'^    TMiJ    t<e«    ,^e\al1^t(^,    iTj-    tv»(A»lvA>.J    ntA.\'<.on<)  "WoJ    i>eirt-\ 

jK«.-i\V,J    0A<      nxt-jV    dwcvvfiAki    ilufc     (M\(A    OJK    'htAe    ,>imJi     ii\<xAc  lt((ui^ 

a«-0<!<-W«i\     wirft    utiUtMwnii     ^o  ei\A  ^  cvnA     rvcuK    Jftv^  \Ucia    ov,)eN\)-a^i.u>xJ 
Oy  |H«Je    ?tu)V  ^  eJ'f'cia.i    ,YnwiVnrr\    yj\uiJct    t<  ,n\R(te-     c^  \Ui   y\ev.   /^xA(\i.n. 

il/iXcrtdcH,^  A.  jl-  (:fLoW  j'Xtcii/vu  ,.Ht(l.-(x  yiWoi^aM  ,.  A(T)/v  ll/iwdu; 

Aa,V<.i\4    CAji^cV   uV.liwNat  ^loK/W   (/3a."  ,  ?')v^i\ciljVu.\    «!     nov\al  .Waitcmu  ^  Jl",/v- 

Vox    irt  /<v)  int<iv>>ic(t/\«fc{e    ^Vie  ^  woafii    ikAvf  /tw    iu><(u«    W'vaVv.v^'*:      a-vxtt. 
man    \\n.U   u    CtivWuy  ■  ^"''•^  '^^      l^f(0^^.^vy   pi    ii,i>.Ni\V\i     fn«c  -  »  -  t\i.t  wUl 

yhJ...,,.^,x     /S^^ 


THE 


DICTIONARY 


OF 


PHRASE    A-TD    FABLE. 


A.  This  letter  is  modified  from  the 
Hebrew  n  {(dcph  —  an  ox),  which  was 
meant  to  indicate  the  outline  of  an  ox's 
head. 

A  among  the  Egyptians  is  denoted  by 
the  hierogh'phic  which  represents  the 
ibis.  Among  the  Greeks  it  was  the 
symbol  of  a  bad  augury  in  the  sacrifices. 

A  in  logic  is  the  symbol  of  a  universal 
affirmative.  A  asserts,  E  denies.  Thus, 
syllogisms  in  h&.rhA.yA.  contain  three  uni- 
versal affirmative  propositions. 

Al  means  first-rate — the  very  best. 
In  Lloyd's  Eegister  of  British  and  Foreign 
Shipping,  the  character  of  the  ship's  hull 
is  designated  by  letters,  and  that  of  the 
anchors,  cables,  and  stores  by  figures. 
Al  means  hull  first-rate,  and  also  an- 
chors, cables,  and  stores ;  A2,  hull 
first-rate,  but  furniture  second-rate. 
Vessels  of  an  inferior  character  are  clas- 
sified under  the  letters  iE,  E,  and  r. 

".She  is  a  prime  girl,  sbe  i5  :  she  is  Al."— 5«ni 
Slick. 

A,B.     (.SV^Able.) 

A.B.C.  z=  Aerated  Bread  Company. 

ABC  Book.  A  primer,  a  book  in 
which  articles  are  set  in  alphabetical 
order,  as  the  A  B  C  Railicai/  Guide. 
The  old  Pi-imers  contained  the  Cate- 
chism, as  is  evident  from  the  Hues  : — 

"  That  is  nuestiou  now  ; 
And  then  comes  answer  like  an  .\l)sey  book." 
Shakespeare :  Kiiuj  John,  i.  1. 

A.B.C.  Process  {The)  of  making 
artificial  manure.  An  acrostic  of  Alum, 
Blood,  Clay,  the  three  chief  ingredients. 

A.  E.  I.  O.  U.  The  device  adopted 
by  Frederick   V.,   Archduke  of  Austria 

1 


(the  Emperor  Frederick  III.  —  1440- 
1493). 

Austria  Est  Trnjierare  Orhi  Universo. 
Alles  Erdreich  1st  Oesterreich  Unterthan. 
Austria's  Empire  Is  Overall  Tniversal. 

To  which  wags  added  after  the  war  of 

1866, 

Austria's  Emperor  Is  Ousted  Utterly. 

Frederick  II.  of  Prussia  is  said  to  have 

translated  the  motto  thus  :— 

"Austria  Erit  In  Orbe  ritima  "  (J(ts/na  iciU 
oneclaij  be  lowest  in  the  world). 

A.U.C.  Anno  urbis  concUtee  (Latin), 
"from  the  foundation  of  the  city  " — i.e., 
Rome. 

Aaron.  An  Aeawi's  serpent.  Some- 
thing so  powerful  as  to  swallow  up  minor 
powers. — Exodus  vii.  \Q-\'2. 

Ab.  Aboio.  From  the  very  beginning. 
Stasinos,  in  the  ei^ic  poem  called  the 
Little  Iliad,  does  not  rush  in  mcdias 
res,  but  begins  with  the  eggs  of  Leda, 
from  one  of  which  Helen  was  bom.  If 
Leda  had  not  laid  this  egg,  Helen  would 
never  have  been  bom.  If  Helen  had  not 
been  bom,  Paris  could  not  have  elojied 
with  her.  If  Paris  had  not  eloped  -with 
Helen,  there  would  have  been  no  Trojan 
War,  etc. 

Ab  oro  usque  ad  mala.  From  the  first 
dish  to  the  last.  A  Roman  eu-na  (dinner) 
consisted  of  three  parts.  The  first  course 
was  the  appetiser,  and  consisted  chiefly 
of  eggs,  with  stimulants  ;  the  second  was 
the  "dinner  proper  ;  "  and  the  third  the 
dessert,  at  which  nwAa  {i.e.,  all  sorts  of 
apples,  pears,  quinces,  pomegranates,  and 
so  on)  formed  the  most  conspicuous  part. 
—Hor.  Sat.  I.  iii.  5. 


Aback 


Abd 


— 00  — oouooooo— 

— 0000 OOOOOI )— 

— o ooooooooo — 

— ooooooo ooo— 

— 00000  —  ooooti— 
—ooooooooo ()— 


Aback'.  /  n-as  tdlcen  ahach — I  was 
greatly  astonished  —taken  by  surprise — 
startled.  It  is  a  sea  term.  A  ship  is 
"taken  aback  "  when  the  sails  are  sud- 
denly carried  by  the  ;viud  back  against 
the  mast,  instantly  staying  the  ship's 
progress — very  dangerous  in  a  strong 
gale. 

Ab'acus.  A  small  frame  with  wires 
stretched  across  it.  Each  wire  contains 
ten  movable  balls, 
which  can  be  shifted 
backwards  or  for- 
wards, so  as  to  vary 
ad  libitum  the  num- 
ber in  two  or  more 
blocks.  It  is  used  to 
teach  children  addi- 
tion and  subtraction. 
The  ancient  Greeks  and  Eomans  em- 
ployed it  for  calculations,  and  so  do  the 
Chinese.  The  woi'd  is  derived  from  the 
Phoen.  uhak  (dust) ;  the  Orientals  used 
tables  covered  with  dust  for  ciphering 
and  diagrams.  In  Turkish  schools  this 
method  is  still  used  for  teaching  writing. 
The  multiplication  table  invented  by 
Pythagoras  is  called  Ab'acus  Fi/thagor'i- 
cun.     (Latin,  abacus  ;  Greek,  ipa^.) 

Abaddon.  The  angel  of  the  bottom- 
less pit  (Rev.  ix.  11).  The  Hebrew  abaci 
means  "  he  perished." 

"Tlic  aiiKiMl  iif  tUo  liiittoiiilo.-ise  p.vtt,  wlio.se 
name  in  Mil'  Ik'IjiX'W  tou^'e  is  A\iMhm."—Tindiile. 

Abam'bou.  The  evil  spirit  of  the 
Gamma  tribes  in  Africa.  A  fire  is  kept 
always  burning  in  his  house.  He  is 
supposed  to  have  the  power  of  causing 
sickness  and  death. 

Abandon  means  put  at  anyone's 
orders;  hence,  to  give  up.  (Latin,  acl, 
to;  bann-nm,  late  Latin  for  "a decree.") 

Abandon  fait  larron.  As  oppor- 
tunity makes  the  thief,  the  person  who 
neglects  to  take  proper  care  of  his  goods, 
leads  into  temptation,  hence  the  proverb, 
"Neglect  leads  to  theft." 

Ab'aris.  The  dart  of  Aharls.  Abaris, 
the  Scythian,  was  a  priest  of  Apollo  ; 
and  the  god  gave  him  a  golden  arrow 
on  which  to  ride  through  the  air.  This 
dart  rendered  him  invisible ;  it  also 
cured  diseases,  and  gave  oracles.  Abaris 
gave  it  to  Pythagoras. 

"Tbe  dart  of  Aliaris  carrieil  tlio  philosopher 
wheresoever  he  desired  it."— IVi^Hiott. 

Abate  (2  syl.)  means  properly  to  knock 
down.  (French,  abattre,  whence  a  battue, 
i.e.,  wholesale  destruction  of  game; 
O.E.  abccitan.) 


Abate,  in  hor.sei«anship,  is  to  per- 
form well  the  downward  motion.  A 
horse  is  said  to  abate  when,  working 
upon  curvets,  he  puts  or  beats  dou'it  both 
his  hind  legs  to  the  ground  at  once,  and 
keeps  exact  time. 

Abatement,  in  herakhy,  is  a  mark 
of  dishonour  annexed  to  coat  amiour, 
whereby  the  honour  of  it  is  abated. 

Ab'aton.  (Greek  a,  not ;  /Suiiw,  I  go.) 
As  inaccessible  as  Abcttoii.  Artemisia,  to 
commemorate  her  conquest  of  Rhodes, 
erected  two  statues  in  the  island,  one 
representing  herself,  and  the  other  em- 
blematical of  Rhodes.  When  the 
Rhodiaus  recovered  their  liberty  Ihey 
looked  upon  this  monument  as  a  kind  of 
palladium,  and  to  prevent  iis  destruction 
surrounded  it  with  a  fortihed  enclosure 
which  they  called  Abaton,  or  the  inac- 
cessible place.  (Lucan  speaks  of  an 
island  difficult  of  access  in  the  feus  of 
Memphis,  called  Abaton.) 

Abb'assides  (3  syl.).  A  dj-nasty  of 
caliphs  who  reigned  from  750-1258. 
The  name  is  derived  from  Abbas,  uncle 
of  Mahomet.  The  most  celebrated  of 
them  was  Haroun-al-Raschid  (boni  765, 
reigned  786-808). 

Abbey  Laird  (An).  An  insolvent 
debtor  sheltered  by  the  precincts  of 
Holyrood  Abbey. 

"As  diligence  cannot  lip  proceeded  with  on 
Suuda.v,  the  Aliliey  Lairds  (as  tliey  were  jocularly 
called)  were  enabled  to  cmiie  fcirtli  on  that  day 
to  mingle  in  our  society."— /J.  Chamhiri-. 

Abbey-lubber  (An).  An  idle,  well- 
fed  dcjjendent  or  loafer. 

"It  came  into  a  ciimmnu  )M-overl>e  to  call  liini 
an  Abhnihliil,},!-!-,  tliat  was  idle,  wel  feci,  a  Inni,', 
lewd,  lirliei- Initerer,  tliat  niiu'lit  wurkeand  W(jnld 
not."- 7Vu  Biiniiiniie  «J  Paiihit  Church,  1S6-3. 

It  is  used  also  of  religions  in  con- 
tempt ;  see  Drydeu's  Spanish  Friar. 

Abbot  of  Misrule,  or  Lord  of  Misrule. 
A  person  who  used  to  superintend  the 
Christmas  diversions.  In  France  the 
"Abbot  of  Misrule"  was  called  XV/iie 
de  Liesse  (jollity).  In  Scotland  the 
master  of  revels  was  called  the  "Master 
of  Unreason." 

Abbotsford.  A  name  given  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott  to  Clarty  Hole,  on  the 
south  bank  of  the  Tweed,  after  it  be- 
came his  residence.  Sir  Walter  devised 
the  name  from  a  fancy  he  loved  to  in- 
dulge in,  that  the  abbots  of  Melrose 
Abbej',  in  ancient  times,  passed  over  the 
fords  of  the  Tweed. 

Abd  in  Arabic  ::=  slave  or  servant,  as 
Abd-Allah  (servant  of  God),  Abd-el- 
Kader  (servant  of  the  Mightij  One),  Abd- 


Abdael 


Abhor 


ul-Latif  {servant  of  the  Gracious  One), 
etc. 

Abdael  (2  syl.).     George  Monk,  third 
Duke  of  Albemarle. 
"Bmvo  Aliiiiiol  o'er   tbe   pi'opliets'   school  was 

Al"l:iel,  with  all  his  father's  virtues  graced.  .  . 
AViihDUt  one  Helirew'slildiKl,  restored  the  crown." 
DiiKlcn  and  T.iit :  Absalom  iind  .ichitophel,  ran  ii. 

V  Tate's  blunder  for  Abdiel  (?.*'•). 

Abdall'ah,  the  father  of  Mahomet, 
was  so  beautiful,  that  when  he  married 
Amina,  200  virgins  broke  their  hearts 
from  disappointed  love. —  JCashinz/ton 
Irving  :  Life  of  Mahomet. 

Abdall'ah.  Brother  and  predecessor 
of  (jiaflir,  pacha,  of  Aby'do.s.  He  was 
muiiU'red  by  Giaftir  (2  sj'l.). — Bijron  : 
Jlridc  iif  ^Ihi^/dos. 

Ab'dals.  Persian  fanatics,  who  think 
it  a  merit  to  kill  anyone  of  a  different 
religion ;  and  if  slain  in  the  attempt,  are 
accounted  martyrs. 

Abde'ra.  A  maritime  town  of  Thrace, 
said  in  fable  to  have  been  founded  by 
Abdera,  sister  of  Diomede.  It  was  so 
overrun  with  rats  that  it  was  abandoned, 
and  the  Abderitans  migrated  to  Mace- 
donia. 

Abderi'tan.  A  native  of  Abdera,  a 
maritime  city  of  Thrace.  The  Abderi- 
tans were  proverbial  for  stupidity,  hence 
the  phrase,  "You  have  no  more  mind 
than  an  Abderite."  Yet  the  city  gave 
birth  to  some  of  the  wisest  men  of  I 
Greece  :  as  Democritos  (the  laughing 
philosopher),  Protagoras  (the  great  so- 
phist), Anaxarchos  (the  philosopher  and 
friend  of  Alexander),  Hecaticos  (the 
historian),  etc. 

Abderitan  Laughter.  Scoffing 
laughter,  incessant  laughter.  So  called 
from  Abdera,  the  birthplace  of  Democ- 
litos,  the  laughing  philosopher. 

Abderite  (3  syl.).  A  scoffer,  so  called 
from  Democ'ritos. 

Abde'rus.  One  of  Herakles's  friends, 
devoured  by  the  horses  of  Diomede. 
Diomede  gave  him  his  horses  to  hold, 
and  they  devoured  him. 

Ab'diel.  The  faithful  seraph  who 
withstood  Satan  when  he  urged  the 
angels  to  revolt.  (See  Farudine  Lost, 
Bk.  v.,  lines  896,  etc.) 

"[He]  adheres,  with  the  faith  of  Alidiel,  to  the 
ancient  form  oi  adoration." — -iir  W.  .sVoW. 

Abeceda'rian.  One  who  teaches  or 
is  learning  his  ABC. 

Abecednrian  hijinns.  Hymns  wliich 
began  with  the  letter  A,  and  each  verse 


or  clause  following  took  up  the  letters 
of  the  alphabet  in  regular  succession. 
{'Sec  Acrostic  Poetey.) 

Abel  and  Cain.  The  Mahometan 
tradition  of  the  death  of  Abel  is  this : 
Cain  was  born  with  a  twin  sister  who 
was  named  Aclima,  and  Abel  with  a 
twin  sister  named  Jumella.  Adam 
wished  Cain  to  marry  Abel's  twin  sister, 
and  Abel  to  marry  Cain's.  Cain  would 
not  consent  to  this  an-angement,  anil 
Adam  proposed  to  refer  the  question  to 
God  by  means  of  a  sacrifice.  God  re- 
jected Cain's  sacrifice  to  signify  his  dis- 
approval of  his  marriage  with  Aclima, 
his  twin  sister,  and  Cain  .slew  his  brother 
in  a  fit  of  jealousy. 

Abel  Keene.  A  village  schoolnia.ster, 
afterwai'ds  a  merchant's  clerk.  He  was 
led  astray,  lest  his  place,  and  hanged 
himself.  —  Craljbe  :  Borowjh,  Letter  xxi. 

A'belites  (3  syl.),  Abel'ians,  or  Abe- 
lo'nians.  A  Christian  sect  of  the  fourth 
century,  chiefly  found  in  Hippo  (N. 
Africa).  They  married,  but  lived  in 
continence,  as  they  affirm  Abel  did. 
The  sect  was  maintained  by  adopting 
the  children  of  others.  No  children  of 
Abel  being  mentioned  in  Scrijiture,  the 
Abelites  assmne  that  he  had  none. 

Abes'sa.  The  imiiersonation  of 
Abbeys  and  Convents,  represented  by 
Spenser  as  a  damsel.  When  Una  asked 
if  she  had  seen  the  Red  Cross  Knight, 
Abessa,  frightened  at  the  lion,  ran  to  the 
cottage  of  blind  Superstition,  and  shut 
the  door.  Una  arrived,  and  the  lion 
burst  the  door  open.  The  meaning  is, 
that  at  the  Reformation,  when  Truth 
came,  the  abbeys  and  convents  got 
alarmed,  and  would  not  let  Truth  enter, 
but  England  (the  lion)  broke  down  the 
door. — Fa'crij  Queen,  i.  3. 

Abesta.  A  book  said  to  have  been 
written  by  Abraham  as  a  commentary 
on  the  Zend  and  the  Pazeud.  It  is 
furthermore  said  that  Abraham  read 
these  three  books  in  the  midst  of  the 
furnace  into  w^hich  he  was  cast  by 
Nimrod. — Fersian  Mi/tholor/ij. 

Abeyance  really  means  something 
gapetl  after  (French,  baijer,  to  gape). 
The  allusion  is  to  men  standing  with 
their  mouths  open,  in  expectation  of 
some  sight  about  to  appear. 

Abhigit.  The  propitiatory  sacrifice 
made  by  an  lutlian  rajah  who  has  slain 
a  priest  without  premeditation. 

Abhor'  (Liitin,  ab,  away  from,  and 
]iorreo,  to  shrink  ;  originally,  to  shudder, 


Abiala 


Above 


have  the  hair  on  end).  To  athor  is  to 
have  a  uatui-al  antipathy,  and  to  ehow  it 
by  shuddering  with  disgust. 

Abiala.  Wife  of  Makambi ;  African 
deities.  She  holds  a  pistol  in  her  hand, 
and  is  greatly  feared.  Her  aid  is  im- 
plored in  sickness. 

Abida.  A  god  of  the  Kalmucks,  who 
receives  the  souls  of  the  dead  at  the 
moment  of  decease,  and  gives  them 
permission  to  enter  a  new  body,  either 
human  or  not,  and  have  another  spell 
of  life  on  earth.  If  the  spirit  is  sjiotless 
it  may,  if  it  likes,  rise  and  live  in  the 
air. 

Abidhar'ma.  The  book  of  meta- 
physics in  the  Tripifaka  {o.i\). 

Abigail.  A  lady's  maid,  or  lady- 
maid.  Abigail,  wife  of  Nabal,  who 
introduced  herself  to  Da\ad  and  after- 
wards married  him,  is  a  well-known 
Scripture  heroine  (1  Sam.  xxv.  3).  Abi- 
gail was  a  xiopular  middle  class  Christian 
name  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Beau- 
mont and  Fletcher,  in  T/ic  Scoiiifid 
L'(di/,  call  the  "waiting  gentlewoman" 
Abigail,  a  name  employed  by  Smft, 
Fielding,  and  others,  in  their  novels. 
Probably  "AVjigail  Hill,"  the  original 
name  of  Mrs.  Masham,  waiting-woman 
to  Queen  Aime,  popularised  the  name. 

Abim'elecli  is  no  proper  name,  but 
a  regal  title  of  the  Philistines,  meaning 
FntldV-klntj. 

Able.  An  able  seaman  is  a  skilled 
seaman.  Such  a  man  is  termed  an  A.B. 
(Abie-Bodied)  ;  unskilled  seamen  are 
called  "  boys  "  without  regard  to  age. 

Able-bodied  Seaman.  A  sailor  of 
the  first  class.  A  crew  is  divided  into 
three  classes:  — (1)  able  seamen,  or 
skilled  sailors,  termed  A.B.  ;  ("2)  ordin- 
ary seamen  ;  and  (3)  boys,  which  in- 
clude green  -  hands,  or  ine.xperienced 
men,  without  regard  to  age  or  size. 

Aboard.  He  fell  aboard  of  me—vaei 
me ;  abused  me.  A  ship  is  said  to  fall 
aboard  another  when,  being  in  motion, 
it  runs  against  the  other. 

To  (10  aboard,  is  to  embark,  to  go  on 
the  board  or  deck. 

Aboard  main  tack  is  to  draw  one  of 
the  lower  corners  of  the  main -sail  down 
to  the  chess-tree.  Fignrativel}',  it  means 
"  to  keep  to  the  point." 

Aboll'a.  An  ancient  military  garment 
worn  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  opposed 
to  the  fof/a  or  robe  of  peace.  The  abolla 
being  worn  by  the    lower  orders,  was 


affected  by  philosophers  in  the  vanity  of 
humility. 

Abominate  {a bom  i nor,  I  pray  that 
the  omen  may  be  averted  ;  used  on  men- 
tioning anj^thing  unluck}').  As  ill-oraeued 
things  are  disliked,  so,  by  a  simjjlc  figure 
of  siJeech,  what  we  dislike  we  consider 
ill-omened. 

Abomination  of  Desolation  ( The) . 
The  Roman  standard  is  so  called  (Matt. 
xxiv.  1.3).  As  it  was  set  up  in  the  holy 
temple,  it  was  an  abojninatiou ;  and, 
as  it  brought  destruction,  it  was  the 
"  abomination  of  desolation." 

Abon  Hassan.  A  rich  merchant, 
transferred  during  sleep  to  the  bed  and 
palace  of  the  Caliph  Harouu-al-Raschid. 
Next  morning  he  was  treated  as  the 
caliph,  and  every  effort  was  made  to 
make  him  forget  his  identity.  Arabian 
Nif/J(ts  ("The  Sleeper  Awakened"). 
The  same  trick  was  played  on  Christo- 
pher Sly,  in  the  Induction  of  Shake- 
speare's comedy  of  Taminy  of  the  S/ireic  ; 
and,  according  to  Burton  {Anatomy  of 
Melaiiehohj,  ii.  2,  4),  by  Philippe  the 
Good,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  on  his  mar- 
riage with  Eleonora. 

"  Were  I  caliph  for  ji  day,  as  bonest  Abou 
Hassan,  I  would  scouvfie  me  these  jugglers  out 
ol  the  Counuonwealth."— .S'ir  Walter  ficott. 

Abonde  {Dame).  The  French  Santa 
Claus,  the  good  fairy  who  comes  at 
night  to  bring  toj's  to  children  while 
they  sleeji,  especiallv  on  New  Year's 
Day. 

Abortive  Flowers  are  those  which 
have  stamens  but  no  pistils. 

Abou  ebn  Sina,  commonly  called 
Arieei/na.  A  great  Persian  physician, 
born  at  Shiraz,  whose  canons  of  medi- 
cine were  those  adopted  by  Hiiipoc'rates 
and  Aristotle.     Died  1037. 

Abou-Bekr,  called  Father  of  the 
Jlrr/in,  i.e.,  Mahomet's  favourite  wife. 
He  was  the  first  caliph,  and  was  founder 
of  the  sect  called  the  Sunnites.  (571- 
634.) 

Abou  Jahi'a.  The  angel  of  death 
in  Mohammedan  mythology.  Called 
Azrael  by  the  Arabs,  and  Mordad  by 
the  Persians. 

Aboulomri  {in  Mohammedan  mijtho- 
logy).  A  fabulous  bird  of  the  vulture 
sort  which  lives  1,000  years.  Called  by 
the  Persians  Kerkes,  and  by  the  Turks 
Ak-Bahn.—Hcrbelot . 

Above  properly  applies  only  to  matter 
on  the  same  page,  but  has  been  extended 


Above-board 


Abrabamites 


to  any  previous  part  of  the  book,  as  Sec 
above,  p.  *. 

Above-board.  lu  a  straiiilitfurwanl 
manner.  Conjurers  place  tlieir  liauds 
iiiidcr  the  table  when  they  are  preparing 
their  tricks,  but  above  when  they  show 
them.  "Let  all  be  above-board" 
means  "let  there  be  no  under-hamA. 
woi'k,  but  let  us  see  everything." 

Above  par.  A  commercial  term  mean- 
ing tliat  the  article  referred  to  is  more 
than  its  nominal  value.  Thus,  if  you 
must  give  more  than  £100  for  a  £100 
share  in  a  bank  company,  a  railway 
share,  or  other  stock,  we  say  the  stock 
is  "'  above  par." 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  a  nominal 
£100  worth  can  be  bought  for  less  than 
£100,  we  say  the  stock  is  "  below  par." 

Figuratively,  a  person  in  low  spirits 
or  ill  health  says  he  is  "  below  par." 

Above  your  hooli — i.e.,  beyond  your 
coniiireliension  ;  beyond  your  mark.  The 
allusion  is  to  hat-pegs  placed  in  rows ; 
the  higher  rows  are  above  the  reach  of 
small  statures. 

Abracadabra.  A  charm.  It  is  said 
that  Abracadabra  was  the  supreme  deity 
of  the  Assyrians.  Q.  Severus  Sammou'- 
icus  recommended  the  use  of  the  word 
as  a  powerful  antidote  against  ague, 
flux,  and  toothache.  The  word  was  to 
be  written  on  parchment,  and  suspended 
round  the  neck  by  a  linen  thread,  in  tlie 
form  given  below  :  — 

A  B  R  A  C  .V  D  A  B  R  A 

ABRACADABR 

ABRACADAB 

ABRACADA 

A  B  R  A  C  A  D 

A  B  R  A  C  A 

A  B  R  A  C 

A  B  R  A 

A  B  R 

A  B 

A 

Abrac'ax,  also  written  AJiya.r'as  or 
Abras'ax,  in  Persian  mythology  denotes 
the  Supreme  Being.  In  Greek  notation 
it  stands  for  36.5.  In  Persian  mythology 
Abracax  presides  over  36.3  impersonated 
virtues,  one  of  which  is  supposed  to  jjre- 
vail  on  each  day  of  the  year.  In  the 
second  century  the  word  was  employed 
by  the  Basilid'ians  for  the  deity  ;  it  was 
also  the  principle  of  the  Gnostic  hier- 
archy, and  that  from  which  sprang  their 
numerous  ^Eons.  {See  Abeaxas  Stones.) 

Abraham. 

His  parei/ts.  According  to  Moham- 
medan mj-thology,  the  parents  of  Abra- 


ham were  Prince  Azar  and  his  wife, 
Adna. 

Mis  ii/faiiei/.  As  King  Nimrod  had 
been  told  that  one  shortly  to  be  bom 
would  dethrone  him,  he  commanded  the 
death  of  all  such  ;  so  Adna  retired  to  a 
cave  where  Abraham  was  born.  He 
was  nourished  by  sucking  two  of  her 
fingers,  one  of  which  supplied  milk  and 
the  other  honey. 

His  boi/hood.  At  the  age  of  fifteen 
months  he  was  equal  in  size  to  a  lad  of 
fifteen,  and  very  wise ;  so  his  father 
introduced  him  to  the  court  of  King 
Nimrod. — Herbelot :  BibUotheqite  Orien- 
tale. 

His  off'erii)(f.  According  to  Moham- 
medan tradition,  the  mountain  on 
which  Abraham  offered  up  his  son  was 
Arfaday  ;  but  is  more  generally  thought 
to  have  been  Morlah. 

His  death.  The  Ghebers  say  that 
Abraham  was  thrown  into  the  fire  by 
Nimrod's  order,  but  the  flame  turned 
into  a  bed  of  roses,  on  which  the  child 
Abraham  went  to  sleep. —  TaveiJiier. 

"  Sweot  .ami  welonmc  as  tbp  bed 
Fur  tlieir  own  infant  iiiiiiilict  sjireail, 
When  pit.ving  Heaven  tii  roses  tinned 
The  ileath-flanies  that  lieneatli  liini  bnrne.l." 
T.  Moure  :  tire  Wurshi/iiierf. 

To  Sham  Abraham.  To  pretend  illness 
or  distress,  in  order  to  get  off  work. 
{See  Abe  Ail -Max.) 

"  I  liave  heanl  iieople  sa.v  tiUum  Abram  you  nmv, 
But  must  not  sham  Ahiaham  Xewlanil." 

T.  Dihciin  or  l'i>to-n. 

Abraham  Newland  was  cashier  of  the 
Bank  of  England,  and  signed  the  notes. 

Abraham's  Bosom.  The  repose  of 
the  happy  in  death  (Luke  xvi.  22).  The 
figure  is  taken  from  the  ancient  custom 
of  allowing  a  dear  friend  to  recline  at 
dinner  on  your  bosom.  Thus  the  beloved 
John  reclined  on  the  bosom  of  Jesus. 

There  is  no  leapiny  from  iJeli'lali^s  lap 
into  Ahrfiliam''s  bosom— i.e.,  those  who 
live  and  die  in  notorious  sin  must  not 
expect  to  go  to  heaven  at  death. — Bos- 
toji :  Crook  in  the  Lot. 

Abraham  Newland  {An).  A  bank- 
note. So  called  because,  in  the  early  part 
of  the  nineteenth  centurj',  none  were 
genuine  but  those  signed  by  this  name. 

Abraham  ic  Covenant.  The  cove- 
nant made  bj-  (iod  with  Abraham,  that 
Messiah  should  spring  from  his  seed. 
This  promise  was  given  to  Abraham, 
because  he  left  his  country  and  father's 
house  to  live  in  a  strange  laud,  as  God 
told  him. 

Abrahamites  (4  syl.).  Certain  Bo- 
hemian  deists,    so   called   because    they 


Abram-colour 


6 


Absquatulate 


professed  to  believe  what  Abraham  be- 
lieved before  he  was  circumcised.  The 
sect  was  forbidden  by  the  Emperor 
Joseph  II.  ill  1783. 

Abram-colour.  Probably  a  cor- 
ruiition  of  Abroii,  meaning  auburn. 
Halliwell  quotes  the  following  from 
Corioliii/iis,  ii.  3  :  "  Our  heads  are  some 
brown,  some  black,  some  Abram,  some 
bald."  And  again,  "Where  is  the 
eldest  son  of  Priam,  the  Abram-coloured 
Ti-ojaur"'  "A  goodly,  long,  thick 
Abram-coloured  beard."— i<V«»7,  Master 
Constable. 

Hall,  in  his  Satires,  iii.  5,  use  i  a'non  fur  aHbuiii. 
"  A  lusty  Cdurtier  .  .  .  witli  al.ri)U  locks  was 
fairly  fui-nisliod." 

Abram-Man,  or  Abraham  Core.  A 
Tom  o'  Bedlam  ;  a  naked  vagabond  ;  a 
begging  impostor. 

The  Abraham  Ward,  in  Bedlam,  had 
for  its  inmates  begging  lunatics,  who 
used  to  array  themselves  ' '  with  party- 
coloured  ribbons,  tape  in  their  hats,  a 
fox-tail  hanging  down,  a  long  stick  with 
streamers,"  and  beg  alms;  but  "  for  all 
their  seeming  madness,  they  had  wit 
enough  to  steal  as  they  went  along." 
—  Can  tun/  AcadeiJii/. 

See  liiitff  Lear,  ii.  3. 

In  Beaumont  and  Fletcher  we  have 
several  synonyms  :— 
"And  tlioso,  wliat  name  or  title  e'er  tliey  liear, 

Jdckmiiii  iir  Piit'iicit,  Cravke  or  Cloniier-diulyton, 

t'idier  M  Abi((in-i}iaH,  I  speak  to  all." 

Biriijar's  Diiuli,  ii.  1. 

Abraxas  Stones.  Stones  with  the 
word  Abraxas  engraved  on  them,  and 
used  as  talismans.  They  were  cut  into 
symbolic  forms  combining  afowl's head, 
a  serpent's  body,  and  human  limbs.  [See 
Abracax.) 

Abreast.  Side  by  side,  the  breasts 
being  all  in  a  line. 

Tin:  sliips  ire  re  all  abreast — i.e.,  their 
lieads  were  all  equally  advanced,  as 
soldiers  marching  abreast. 

Abridge  is  not  formed  from  the 
•word  brirlije  ;  but  comes  from  the  Latin 
abhrcvidrr,  to  shorten,  from  _  brcr'is 
(short),  through  the  French  abrajcr  (to 
shorten). 

Abroach.  To  set  viisehief  ahroae/i  is 
to  set  it  afoot.  The  figure  is  from  a 
cask  of  liquor,  which  is  ])roaehed  that 
the  liquor  may  be  drawn  from  it.  (Fr., 
broclar,  to  prick,  abrochcr.) 

Abroad.  You  are  all  abroad.  Wide 
of  the  mark  ;  not  at  home  with  the  sub- 
ject.    Abroad  ;  in  all  directions. 

"  Au  elm  ilisiilays  lier  dusky  arms  alirond." 
Vrudcn. 


Ab'rogate.  When  the  Roman  senate 
wanted  a  law  to  be  passed,  they  asked 
the  people  to  give  their  votes  in  its  fa- 
vour. The  Latin  for  this  is  roi/drr  lef/em 
(to  solicit  or  propose  a  law).  If  they 
wanted  a  law  repealed,  they  asked  the 
people  to  vote  against  it ;  this  was  ab- 
ror/urc  legem  (to  solicit  against  the  law). 

Absalom.  James,  Duke  of  Mon- 
mouth, the  handsome  but  rebellious  sou 
of  Charles  II.  in  Drydeu's  Absalom 
ami  Aehitophel  (1649-1685). 

Absalom  and  Aehitophel.  A  poli- 
tical satire  by  Dryden  (1649-1685). 
David  is  meant  for  Charles  II. ;  Absalom 
for  his  natural  son  James,  Duke  of  Mon- 
mouth, handsome  like  Absalom,  and, 
like  him,  rebellious.  Aehitophel  is 
meant  for  Lord  Shaftesbury,  Ziniri  for 
the  Duke  of  Buckingham,  and  Abdael  for 
Monk.  The  selections  are  so  skilfully 
made  that  the  history  of  David  seems 
repeated.  Of  Absalom,  Dryden  says 
(Part  i.)  :— 

"  Wliate'er  lie  did  was  done  with  so  mnch  ease, 
In  iiim  alone  'twas  natural  to  please  ; 
His  motions  all  accompanied  with  grace, 
And  paradise  was  opened  in  his  face." 

Abscond'  means  properly  to  hide; 
but  we  generally  use  the  word  in  the 
sense  of  stealing  off  secretly  from  au 
employer.     (Latin,  abseondo.) 

Ab'sent.  "Out  of  mind  as  soon  as 
out  of  sight."  Generally  misquoted 
"Out  of  sight,  out  of  mind." — Lord 
Brooke. 

The  absent  are  ahrai/s  icronr/.  The 
translation  of  the  French  proverb,  Les 
absents  ont  toajoars  tort. 

Absent  Man  (The).  The  character 
of  Bruyere's  Absent  Man,  translated 
in  the  Speetator  and  exhibited  on  the 
stage,  is  a  caricature  of  Comte  de 
Braneas. 

Ab'solute.  A  Captain  Absolnte,  a 
bold,  despotic  man,  determined  to  have 
his  own  way.  The  character  is  in  Sheri- 
dan's play  called  The  Rivals. 

SirAiithoni/  Absolnte,  a  warmhearted, 
testj',  overbearing  country  squire,  in  (he 
same  play.  William  Dowton  (1764- 1851) 
was  nick-named  "Sir  Anthony  Abso- 
lute." 

Absquatulate.  To  run  away  or  ab- 
scond. A  comic  American  word,  from 
<(b  and  stjaat  (to  go  away  from  your 
squatting).  A  squatting  is  a  tenement 
taken  in  some  unclaimed  part,  without 
purchase  or  permission.  The  persons 
who  take  up  their  squatting  are  termed 
s(jnatters. 


Abstemious 


Acadia 


itself,  as  6,  the  divisors  of  which  are  1, 
2,  3  =  6. 

Abus,  tlie  river  Humber. 

"  Fur  liy  tlie  river  tUat  whylonie  was  liigbt 
The  aniieu  Ahiis    .    .    .    [was  fromj    T  .    . 
Tbeir  chieftain,  Humber,  named  aright." 

And  Drayton,  in  his  Poli/olbion,  28, 
says : — 

"  For  my  princely  name, 
From  Hiimtier,  king  (il  Huns,  as  anciently  it 
came." 

See  Geoffrey's  Chronicles,  Bk.  ii.  2. 

Ab'yla.  A  mountain  in  Gibraltar. 
This,  with  Calpe  in  Spain,  sixteen  miles 
distant,  fonus  the  tivo  pillars  of  Hercules. 

"  Heaves  up  huge  Abyla  on  Afric's  sand. 
Crowns  with   high  Calie  Europe's  salient 
strand." 

Diinciii :  Fcoiiouijj  of  Vetietatiini. 

Abyssin'ians.  A  sect  of  Christians 
in  Abyssinia,  who  admit  only  one  nature 
in  Jesus  Christ,  and  reject  the  Council 
of  Chalce'dou. 

Acace'tus.  One  who  does  nothing 
badlj'.  It  was  a  name  given  to  Mercury 
or  Hennes  for  his  eloquence.  (Greek, 
(f,  not ;  kakofi,  bad.) 

Academics  The  followers  of  Plato 
were  so  called,  because  they  attended  his 
lectures  in  the  Academy,  a  garden 
planted  by  Acade'mos. 

"  See  there  the  olive  grove  of  Aeademus,  Plato'.s 
retreat."    MUtuu  :  ruradise  Lust,  Book  iv. 

Acad'emy.  Divided  into — Old,  the 
philosophic  teaching  of  Plato  and  his 
immediate  followers ;  Middle,  a  modifi- 
cation of  the  Platonic  system,  taught  by 
Arcesila'os  ;  New,  the  half  -  sceptical 
school  of  Car'neades. 

Plato  taught  that  matter  is  eternal 
and  infinite,  but  without  form  or  order ; 
and  that  there  is  an  intelligent  cause, 
the  author  of  everything.  He  maintained 
that  we  could  grasp  truth  only  so  far 
as  we  had  elevated  our  mind  by  thought 
to  its  divine  essence. 

Arcesila'os  was  the  great  antagonist  of 
the  Stoics,  and  wholly  denied  man's  ca- 
pacity for  grasping  truth. 

Car'neades  maintained  that  neither  our 
senses  nor  our  understanding  could  suj)- 
ply  us  with  a  sure  criterion  of  truth. 

The  talent  of  the  Acadeimi,  so  Plato 
called  Aristotle  (b.c.  384-32'2). 

Academy  Figures.  Drawings  in 
black  and  white  chalk,  on  tinted  paper, 
from  living  models,  used  by  artists.  So 
calledfrom  the  Royal  Academy  of  Artists. 

Aca'dia — i.e.,  Nova  Scotia,  so  called 
by  the  French  from  the  river  Shiihen- 
acadie.     The  name  was  changed  in  1621. 


Abste'mious,  according  to  Fabius 
and  Aulus  Gellius,  is  compounded  of  ahs 
and  teuie'taiii.  "  Teme'tum"  was  a  strong, 
intoxicating  drink,  allied  to  the  Greek 
iiiethn  (strong  drink). 

"Viiuim  prisra  lingin  temettm  appcllabant."— 
AhUis  Gcllias,  x.  -:i. 

Abstract  Numbers  are  numbers 
considered  abstractly — 1,  2,  3;  but  if 
we  say  1  year,  2  feet,  3  men,  etc.,  the 
numbers  are  no  longer  abstract,  but  con- 
crete. 

Taken  in  the  abstract.  Things  are  said 
to  be  taken  in  the  abstract  when  they 
are  considered  absolutely,  that  is,  with- 
out reference  to  other  matters  or  per- 
sons. Thus,  in  the  abstract,  one  man  is 
as  good  as  another,  tut  not  so  socially 
aiui  politically. 

Abstraction.  A  n  cmptij  A  hstr action , 
a  mere  ideality,  of  no  practical  use. 
Every  noun  is  an  abstraction,  but  the 
narrower  genera  may  be  raised  to  higher 
ones,  till  the  common  thread  is  so  fine 
that  hardly  anything  is  left.  These  high 
abstractions,  from  which  everything  but 
one  common  cord  is  taken,  are  called 
cinpttj  abstractions. 

For  example,  man  is  a  genus,  but  may 
be  raised  to  the  genus  an  mud,  thence  to 
ori/anised  beiinj,  tlience  to  created  being, 
tlience  to  matter  in  the  abstract,  and  so 
on,  till  everything  but  one  is  emptied 
out. 

Absurd  means  strictly,  quite  deaf. 
(Latin,  ab,  intensive,  and  sardas,  deaf.) 

licductio  ad  absardam.  Proving  a 
proposition  to  be  right  by  showing  that 
every  supposable  deviation  from  it  would 
involve  an  absurdity. 

Abu'dah.  A  merchant  of  Bagdad, 
haiuited  every  night  by  an  old  hag  ;  he 
finds  at  last  that  the  way  to  rid  himself 
of  this  torment  is  to  "fear  God,  and 
keep  his  commandments." — Tales  of  the 
Genii. 

"  Like  .^liuilab,  he  is  always  looking  out  for  the 
J'uri-,  ami  knows  that  the  niu'ht  will  come  with 
the  iiie\  italjle  hag  with  it."— r/idc/.trity. 

Abundant  Number  (.4^0  ■  A  num- 
ber such  that  the  sum  of  all  its  divis- 
ors (except  itself)  is  greater  than  the 
number  itself.  Thus  12  is  an  abundant 
nimiber,  because  its  divisors,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6 
=z  16,  which  is  greater  than  12. 

A  Bejicient  number  is  one  of  which 
the  sum  of  all  its  divisors  is  less  than 
itself,  as  10,  the  divisors  of  which  are  1, 
2,  .5  z=  8,  which  is  less  than  10. 

A  Ferfect  number  is  one  of  which  the 
sum  of  all  its  divisors  exactly  measui'es 


Acadine 


Accost 


In  1755  the  old  French  inhabitants  were 
diiven  into  exile  by  order  of  George  II. 

"  Thus  dwelt  together  in    love   these   siiiuile 
Acadian  farmers."    Long/tlluic :  Emityiline. 

Acadine.  A  fountain  of  Sicily  which 
revealed  if  writings  were  authentic  and 
genuine  or  not.  The  writings  to  be 
tested  were  thrown  into  the  fountain, 
and  if  spurious  they  sank  to  the  bottom. 
Oaths  and  promises  were  tried  in  the 
same  way,  after  being  written  down. — 
Diodorus  Siciiliis. 

Acan'tlius.  The  leafy  ornament  used 
in  the  cajiitals  of  Corinthian  and  com- 
posite columns.  It  is  said  that  Callim'- 
achos  lost  his  daughter,  and  set  a  basket 
of  flowers  on  her  gi-ave,  with  a  tile  to 
keep  the  wind  from  blowing  it  away. 
The  next  time  he  went  to  visit  the  grave 
an  acanthus  had  sprung  uji  around  the 
basket,  which  so  struck  the  fancy  of  the 
architect  that  he  introduced  the  design 
in  his  buildings. 

Acceptance.  A  bill  or  note  accepted. 
This  is  done  by  the  diawee  writing  on  it 
"accepted,"  and  signing  his  name.  The 
person    who    accepts    it    is    called    the 

' '  acceptor. ' ' 

Accessory.  Acccssonj  hefore  the  fact 
is  one  who  is  aware  that  another  intends 
to  commit  an  offence,  but  is  himself  ab- 
sent wlien  tlie  offence  is  perpetrated. 

Accessor;/  after  tlw  fact  is  one  wlio 
screens  a  felon,  aids  him  in  eluding 
justice,  or  helps  him  in  any  way  to 
profit  by  his  crime.  Thus,  the  receiver 
of  stolen  goods,  knowing  or  even  sus- 
pecting them  to  be  stolen,  is  an  accessory 
ex  post  facto. 

Ac'cident.  A  hcjlcal  accldoit  is  some 
property  or  ijuality  which  a  thing  pos- 
sesses, but  whicli  does  not  essentially 
belong  to  it,  as  the  tint  of  our  skin,  the 
height  of  our  body,  the  redness  of  a 
brick,  or  the  whiteness  of  paper.  If 
any  of  these  were  changed,  the  sub- 
■stance  would  remain  intact. 

Accidental  or  Subjective  Colours. 

Those  which  depend  on  the  state  of  our 
eye,  and  not  those  which  the  object 
really  possesses.  Thus,  after  looking  at 
the  bright  sun,  all  olijccts  appear  dark  ; 
that  dark  colour  is  the  accidental  colour 
of  the  bright  sim.  When,  again,  we 
come  from  a  dark  room,  all  objects  at 
first  have  a  yellow  tinge.  This  is  es- 
pecially the  case  if  we  wear  blue  glasses, 
for  a  minute  or  two  after  we  have  taken 
them  off. 

The  accidental  colour  of  red  is  bluish 


green,  of  orange  dark  blue,  of  violet  yel- 
low, of  hlacTi  white  ;  and  the  converse. 

Acciden'tals  in  music  are  those 
shai-ps  and  flats,  etc.,  which  do  not 
properly  belong  to  the  key  in  which  the 
music  is  set,  but  which  the  composer 
arbitrarily  introduces. 

Accidente!  (1  syl.)  An  Italian  curse 
or  oath  :  "  Ce  qui  vent  dire  en  bon  fran- 
(^•ais,  '  Puisses-tu  mourir  d' accident,  sans 
confession,'  damnc." — E.  About :   Tulla. 

Accidents,  in  theology.  After  con- 
secration, say  the  Catholics,  the  satistance 
of  the  bread  and  wine  is  changed  into 
that  of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ, 
but  their  aecidotts  (flavour,  appearance, 
and  so  on)  remain  the  same  as  before, 

Ac'cius  Na'vius.  A  Roman  augur 
iu  tlie  reign  of  Tarquin  the  Elder.  When 
he  forbade  the  king  to  increase  the  num- 
ber of  the  tribes  without  consulting  the 
augurs,  Tarquin  asked  him  if  the  thought 
tlien  iu  his  mind  was  feasible.  "  Un- 
doubtedly," said  Accius.  "Then  cut 
tlirough  this  whetstone  with  the  razor 
in  your  hand."  Tlie  priest  gave  a  bold 
cut,  and  the  block  fell  in  two.  Tliis 
story  (from  Liv^',  Bk.  i.,  chap.  3G)  is 
humorously  retold  in  Bon  Gaultier's 
Ballads. 

Accolade  (3  syl.).  The  touch  of  a 
sword  on  the  shoulder  in  the  ceremony 
of  conferring  kuightliood  ;  originally  an 
embrace  or  touch  by  the  liand  on  the 
neck.     (Latin,  ad  coltain,  on  the  neck.) 

Accommoda'tion.  A  loan  of  money, 
which  accommodates  us,  or  fits  a  want. 

Accommodation  Note  or  Bill.  An 
acceptance  given  on  a  Bill  of  Exchange 
for  which  value  has  not  been  received  hy 
the  acceptor  from  the  drawer,  and  which, 
not  representing  a  commercial  transac- 
tion, is  so  far  fictitious. 

Accommodation  Ladder.  The  light 
ladder  hung  over  the  side  of  a  ship  at 
the  gangway. 

Accord'  means  "heart  to  heart." 
(Latin,  ad  corda.)  If  two  persons  like 
and  dislike  the  same  things,  they  are 
heart  to  heart  witli  eacli  other. 

Similarly,  "con-cord"  means  heart 
with  heart;  "dis-cord,"  heart  divided 
from  heart ;  "  re-cord  "  properly  means 
to  recollect — i.e.,  re-corddre,  to  bring 
again  to  the  mind  or  heart ;  then  to  set 
down  in  writing  for  the  purjiose  of  recol- 
lectnig. 

Accost'  means  to  "  come  to  the  side  " 
of  a  person  for  the  purpose  of  speaking 
to  him.     (Latin,  ad  costain,  to  the  side.) 


Accotmt 


Achemon 


Account'.  To  open  an  account,  to 
euter  a  customer's  uame  ou  j'our  ledger 
for  the  first  time.  (Latin,  accomputaie, 
to  reckon  with.) 

To  keep  open  account  is  when  merchants 
agree  to  honour  each  other's  bills  of  ex- 
change. 

A  current  account  or  "account  cur- 
rent, fdc  A  commercial  term,  meaning 
that  the  customer  is  entered  by  name  in 
the  creditor's  ledger  for  goods  purchased 
but  not  paid  for  at  the  time.  The 
account  runs  on  for  a  mouth  or  more, 
according  to  agreement. 

To  cast  accounts.  To  give  the  results 
of  the  debits  and  credits  entered,  bal- 
ancing the  two,  and  caiTying  over  the 
surplus. 

A  sale  for  the  account  in  the  Stock 
Exchange  means  :  the  sale  of  stock  not 
for  immediate  payment,  but  for  the 
fortnightly  settlement.  Generally  this 
is  speculative,  and  the  broker  or  cus- 
tomer pays  the  difference  of  price  be- 
tween the  time  of  pui'chase  and  time  of 
settlement. 

IVc  u- ill  (/ice  a  f/ood  account  of  them — 
i.e.  we  will  give  them  a  thorough  good 
drubbing. 

Accurate  means  well  and  carefully 
done.     (Latiu,  ad-curdre,  accuratus.) 

Accu'sative  {The),  Calvin  was  so 
called  by  his  college  companions.  We 
speak  of  an  "  accusative  age,"  meaning 
searchinff,  one  eliminating  error  by  ac- 
cusiny  it. 

"This  li:ith  been  a  very  accusative  ar?.?."— 
Sir  E.  Ueniiij. 

Ace  (1  S5'l.).  The  unit  of  cards  or 
dice,  from  as,  the  Latiu  unit  of  weight. 
(Italian,  asso;  French  and  Spanish,  as.) 

in  thin  an  ace.  Within  a  shave.  An 
ace  is  the  lowest  numeral,  and  he  who 
wins  within  au  ace,  wins  within  a  single 
mark.     {Sec  AitBES-AS.) 

To  bate  an  ace  is  to  make  an  abate- 
ment, or  to  give  a  competitor  some 
start  or  other  advantage,  in  order  to 
render  the  combatants  more  equal.  It 
is  said  that  the  expression  originated  in 
tlie  reign  of  Heniy  VIII.,  wheu  one  of 
tlie  courtiers  named  Bolton,  in  order  to 
flatter  the  king,  used  to  say  at  cards, 
"Your  Majesty  must  bate  me  an  ace, 
or  I  shall  have  no  chance  at  all." 
Taylor,  the  water  poet  (Io80-16o4), 
speakiug  of  certain  women,  says— 

"  Thougli  bail  tliey  lie,  they  will  not  bate  an  ace 
To  lie  calil  Piuileuce,  Tomp'rance,  Faith,  auil 
Grace." 

Acel'dama.  A  battle-field,  a  place 
where  much  blood  has  been  shed.     To 


the  south  of  Jerusalem  there  was  a  field 
so  called  ;  it  was  purchased  by  the  priests 
with  the  blood-money  thrown  down  by 
Judas,  and  appropriated  as  a  cemetery 
for  strangers  (Matt,  xxvii.  8;  Acts  i. 
19).     (Aramaic,  okSl-daincl.) 

Aceph'alites  (4  syl.)  properlj^  means 
men  without  a  head.  (1)  A  faction 
among  the  Eutych'iaus  in  the  fifth  cen- 
tury after  the  submission  of  Mongus  their 
chief,  by  which  they  were  "  deiirived 
of  their  head."  (2)  Certain  bishops 
exempt  from  the  jurisdiction  and  disci- 
pline of  their  patriarch.  (3)  A  sect  of 
levellers  in  the  reign  of  Henry  I.,  who 
acknowledged  no  leader.  (4)  The  fabu- 
lous Blemmyes  of  Africa,  wlio  are  de- 
scribed as  having  no  head,  their  eyes 
and  mouth  being  jjlaced  elsewhere, 
(Greek,  a-kcph'ale,  without  a  head.) 

Aces'tes  (3  syl.).  The  Arrow  of 
Accsfcs.  In  a  trial  of  skill  Acestes,  the 
Sicilian,  discharged  his  aiTow  with  such 
force  that  it  took  fire.   {^-En.  5,  line  526.) 

"  Like  Ace.-ites'  shaft  of  old, 
The  swift  thought  kiuuiuo  as  it  tlie.^." 

J.oiigjfeHow. 

Achaean  League.  A  confederacy 
of  the  twelve  towns  of  Acha^a.  It  was 
broken  up  by  Alexander  the  Great,  but 
was  again  reorganised  B.C.  280,  and 
dissolved  by  the  Romans  in  147  B.C. 

Achar  in  Indi.an  philosophy  means 
the  AU-in-All.  The  world  is  spun  out 
of  Achar  as  a  web  from  a  spider,  and 
will  ultimately  return  to  him,  as  a  sjiider 
sometimes  takes  back  into  itself  its  own 
thread.  Phenomena  are  not  independ- 
ent realities,  but  merely  partial  and  in- 
dividual manifestations  of  the  Allin-AU. 

Achates  (3  syl.).  A  fdus  Achates. 
A  faithful  companion,  a  bosom  friend. 
Achates  in  Virgil's  JEneid  is  the  chosen 
companion  of  the  hero  in  adventures  of 
all  kind.i. 

"  He  has  chosen  this  fellow  for  his  fuUis 
Acli<itcs."—Sir  Walter  Scott. 

Ache'mon,  or  Achmon,  and  his 
brother  Basalas  were  two  CercopCs  for 
ever  quarrelUug.  One  day  they  saw 
Hercules  asleep  under  a  tree  and  insulted 
him,  but  Hercules  tied  them  by  their 
feet  to  his  club  and  walked  off  with  them, 
heads  downwards,  like  a  brace  of  hares. 
Everyone  laughed  at  the  sight,  and  it 
became  a  proverbial  cry  among  the 
Greeks,  when  two  men  were  seen  quar- 
relling— "Look  out  for  Melampy'gos  I  " 
(i.e.  Hercules). 

"  Xe  insiilas  in  Melainiiy -'uni." 

V  According  to  Greek  fable,  monkeys 


Acheron 


10 


Achitophel 


are  degraded  men.  The  Cerc5p5s  were 
changed  into  monkeys  for  attemptmg  to 
deceive  Zeus. 

Ac'heron.  The  "  River  of  Sorrows ' ' 
(Greek,  uriws  roos) ;  one  of  the  five  rivers 
of  the  infernal  regions. 

"  Sad  Acheron  nf  sorrow,  Wack  and  deep/' 
Milton :  I'aradise  Lost,  ii.  5.8. 

Fahtthnn  Acherontis.  Food  for  the 
churchj^ard  ;  said  of  a  dead  body. 

Acheron'tian  Books.  The  most  cele- 
brated looks  of  augury  m  the  world. 
They  are  the  books  which  the  Etruscans 
received  from  Tages,  grandson  of  Jupiter. 

Acherusia.  A  cavern  on  the  bor- 
ders of  Pontus,  said  to  lead  down  to  the 
infernal  regions.  It  was  through  this 
cavern  that  Hercules  dragged  Cerberus 
to  earth. 

Achillea.      The  Yarrow,   called  by 
the  French  the  hcrhe  mix  charpentiers— 
i  e      carpenter's    wort,   because  it  was 
supposed  to  heal  wounds  made  by  car- 
penters'  tools.      Called    Achillea    from 
Ar'hillGs,  who  was  taught  the  uses  and 
virtues  of  plauts  by  Cliirou  the  ceutaiu-. 
The  tale  is,  that  when  the  Greeks  in- 
vaded Troy,  Telephus,  a  son-in-law  ot 
Kin'^    Priam,    attempted  to   stop  their 
laudiug ;    but   Bacclius   caused  him  to 
stumble  over  a  vine,  and,  when  he  ha_d 
fallen,   Achilles  wounded  him  witli  his 
spear.     The  young  Trojan  was  told  by 
an  oracle  that  "Achilles  (meaning  mil- 
foil or  yarrow)  woidd  cure  the  wound  ; 
but,    histead  of   seeking  the   plant,  he 
applied  to  the  Grecian  chief   and  pro- 
niised  to  conduct  the  host  to  Troy  if  he 
would  cure  the  wouucL     Achilles   con- 
sented to  do  so,  scraped  some  rust  from 
his  siiear,  and  from  the  tilings  rose  the 
plant   milfoil,   which,   being  applied  to 
the  wound,  had  the  desired  ettect. 

Achilles  (3  syl.).  Kiug  of  ^}^^  ^yr;- 
midfiii^  (in  Thessalv),thehero  of  Homer  s 
epic  poem  called  the  Iluf  He  is  re- 
presented as  brave  iind  relentless.  Ihe 
poem  begins  with  a  quarrel  between 
him  and  Agamemnon,  the  commander- 
in-chief  of  the  allied  Greeks  ;  in  c^nse- 
ciuence  of  which  Achilles  retused  to  go 
to  battle.  The  Trojans  prevail,  and 
Achilles  sends  forth  his  friend  Patroclos 
to  oppose  them.  Patroc;los  fell ;  and 
Achilles,  in  anger,  rushing  into  the  battle, 
killed  Hector,  the  commander  ot  the 
Troiaus.  He  himself,  according  to  later 
poems,  fell  in  battle  a  few  days  after- 
wards, before  Troy  was  taken. 


Achilles. 

Arm<i :  Tin-  Jlvruii-lons  followp.l  l.iin  to  Tr,)y. 
lead  of-  It   was  I'lins  who  w..ui„lf(    AclJilles 
i„  tl   ■    .'olwith  :u,  arrow  (a  i,ost-Hom..ncstur.v). 
FatluA  I'rlcus  CJ  syl.),  King  "£  TUossaly. 

/?,',r"1-  BaUos*''('=  swift-footed)  and  Xantb.is 
(  V  ciie'stnut-coloured),   endowed   witU    liuniau 

^'msl'ress    in     Troy:     Hippodan.iii,    surnamed 
Briseis  (2  syl.). . 

jVoHier:  Tbeti3,aseaRoddesh. 

^o»  :  Pyrrhos,  suruanied  NcoptolSmos  (  =  the 

"  Tomf."-  'in  Sigoeum,  over  ^vhich  no  bird  ever  flies. 

~ThMs^' i'^'rst,  Phrenix,  who  taught  him    the 
Clements  ;  then  Chinm  the  ceiitaur. 

ir;/e :  Deidaniia.    (.5  syl.)    De-i-da-nij  -ah. 

Achilles  (pronounce  A-kil'-leez).  The 
F.mihxh,  John  Talbot,  first  Earl  of 
Shrewsbury  (1373-1453). 

Achilles  of  Enqhnxl,  the  Duke  of 
Wellington  (1769 -1852). 

Of  (Tcrmnmi,  Albert,  Elector  of  Bran- 
denburg (1414-1486). 

Of  lowhardi/,  brother  of  Sforza  and 
Pal'amedes.  A:11  the  three  brothers  were 
in  the  allied  armv  of  Godfrey  {Jcrnsiilcm 
Delivered).  Acliilles  of  Lombardy  was 
slain  by  Coriima.  This  was  not  a  com- 
plimentary title,  but  a  proper  name. 

Of  Rome,  Lucius  Sicinius  Deniatiis, 
the"  Eoman  tribune  ;  also  called  tlie 
Second  Achilles.  Put  to  death  B.C.  4o0. 
Achilles  of  the  West.  Roland  the 
Paladin;  also  called  "The  Christum 
Theseus"  (2  syl.). 
"  Achilles'  Spear.     (.SVc  Achillea.) 

Achilles'  Tendon.  A  strong  sinew 
running  along  the  heel  to  the  calf  ot  the 
leo-  The  tale  is  that  Thetis  took  her 
son  Achilles  by  the  heel,  and  dipped  hira 
in  the  river  Styx  to  make  him  invulner- 
able The  water  washed  every  part, 
except  the  heel  covered  with  his  mother  s 
hantl  It  was  on  this  vulnerable  point 
the  hero  was  slain  ;  and  the  sinew  of  the 
heel  is  called,  in  couspqueuce,  (ciido 
AchUUs.     A  post-Hoinenc  story 

The  Heel  of  Achilles.  The  vulnenible 
or  weak  pohit  in  a  mans  character  or 
of  a  nation.     {See  dhore.) 

Aching  Void  {A„).  That  desolation 
of  heart  which  arises  from  the  recollec- 
tion of  some  cherished  endearment  no 
longer  possessed. 

"  What  peaoeful  hours  1  once  enjoyed  ! 
How  swec't  their  memory  still. 
But  they  have  left  an  ac  >",',t'  \oul 
The  world  can  never  nil.  . 

Cm-icr:  Wulkitig  Kilh  God. 

I  Achifophel.  (.SVy'  Absalom  and 
Achitophel.)  Achitophel  was  David  s 
traitorous   counsellor,    who  deserted  to 


Achor 


11 


Acrostic 


Absalom  ;  but  his  advice  beiug  disre- 
garded, he  hanged  liiinself  (2  Sam.  xv.). 
The  Achitophel  of  Drydeu'a  satire  was 
the  Earl  of  Shaftesbury  :— 

'•Of  tliiT'e  (llic  rebels)  the  false  AcUitdiihcl  was 
tir.-t  : 
A  naiiu'  til  all  :;iiri'i-i'iliri'-'  aci-;;  curst  ; 
Km-  (.  liisr  il.-si^'us  ami  I'liiiikrd  ciaiiisels  fit  ; 
S:\i-'aciiius,  liiilil,  ami  tiirlmli-iit  nf  wit  ; 
lU'Stlc  -s,  unli-xi-.l  ill  iniiii-ijili's  and  place  ; 
111  powiT  uiiiilcased,  iiiiiiatieiit  in  disgrace." 
Pan  i.  ljo-5. 

A'chor.  God  of  flies,  worshipped  by 
the  C}'reiieaus,  that  they  might  not  be 
annoyed  with  these  tiny  tormentors. 
{•Sic  Flies,  God  of.) 

A'cis.  The  sou  of  Faunus,  in  love 
with  Galatea.  Polyphe'mos,  his  rival, 
crushed  him  under  a  huge  rock. 

Ac'me.  The  crisis  of  a  disease.  Old 
medical  writers  used  to  divide  the  pro- 
gress of  a  disease  into  four  jieriods  :  the 
ar-che,  or  beginning ;  the  ((iiiib'asif!,  or 
increase  ;  the  ac'iiic,  or  term  of  its  utmost 
violence  ;  and  tlie  pa-rac'-nic,  or  decline. 
Figuratively,  the  highest  point  of  any- 
thing. 

Acmon'ian  Wood  (T/ic).  The  tryst - 
place  of  unlawful  love.  It  was  here 
that  Mars  had  his  assignation  with 
Ilannonia,  who  became  the  mother  of 
the  Amazons. 

"("est  la  ijue  .  .  .  Mavs  eiit  les  faveiirs  de  la 
nyiiiiilie  Haniniiiie,  coiiiiiierce  dmit  iia'iuireiit  les 
Aiiiaznues."— AVu'HHf  .-  Ueuijrapliie. 

Acoime  tse.  An  order  of  monks  in 
tlie  fifth  century  wlio  watched  day  and 
uight.     (Greek,  icatchers.) 

Ac'olyfce  (3  syl.).  A  subordinate  officer 
in  the  Catholic  Church,  whose  duty  is 
to  light  the  lamps,  prepare  the  sacred 
elements,  attend  the  officiating  priests, 
etc.     (Greek,  a  follower.) 

Aconite.  The  herb  Monkshood  or 
Wolfsbane.  Classic  fabulists  ascribe  its 
poisonous  qualities  to  the  foam  which 
dropped  from  the  mouths  of  the  three- 
headed  CertSrus,  when  Hercules,  at  the 
command  of  Eurystheus,  dragged  the 
monster  from  the  infernal  regions. 
(Greek,  o-kovltov]  Latin,  acontitm.) 

"  Lurida  tenil.iles  iiiiseeiit  A.-oni  a  noverr^." 
Ovid:  Metiim(irit}iof:s,  i.  147. 

Acra'sia  {Sclf-buhilgeDce).  An  en- 
chantress who  lived  in  the  "Bower  of 
Bliss,"  situate  in  "  Wandering  Island." 
She  transformed  lier  lovers  into  mon- 
strous shapes,  and  kept  them  captives. 
Sir  Guyou  having  crept  up  softly,  threw 
a  net  over  her,  and  bound  her  in  chains 
of    adamant  :     then    broke    down    her 


bower  and  burnt  it  to  ashes. — Spoiser : 
Fa'vry  Queen,  ii.  12. 

Acra'tes  (3  syl.),  i.e.,  i)ico>iti>ien-c  ; 
called  by  Spenser  the  father  of  Cymoch'- 
les  and  Pyroch'les. — Favrij  Qiueii,  ii.  4. 

Acre.  "God's  acre,"  a  cemetery  or 
churchyard.  The  word  "acre,"  Old 
English,  (eccr,  is  akin  to  the  Latin 
ager  and  German  acker  (a  field). 

Acre-fight.  A  duel  in  the  open  field. 
The  combats  of  the  Scotch  and  English 
Borderers  were  so  called. 

Acre-shot.  A  land  tax.  "Acre" 
is  Old  English,  acer  (land),  and  "shot" 
is  scot  or  sceat  (a  tax). 

A'cres.  A  Boh  Acres— -i.e.,  ix.cowa.vA. 
From  Slieridan's  comedy  called  The 
Rirah-.  His  courage  always  "oozed  out 
at  his  fingers'  ends." 

Acroamat  ics.  Esoter'ical  lectures ; 
the  lectures  of  Aristotle,  which  none  but 
his  chosen  disciples  were  allowed  to 
attend.  Those  given  to  the  public  gene- 
rally were  called  ccotcr'ic.  (Acroamatic 
is  a  Greek  word,  meaning  deli  rered  to  (in 
audience  ;  aKpoaofiai,  to  attend  lectures.) 

Acroat'ic.     Same  as  esoter'ic.      {See 

ACHOAMATICS.) 

Acrobat  means  one  who  goes  on  his 
e.rtreniities,  or  uses  only  the  tips  of  his 
fingers  and  toes  in  moving  about.  (It  is 
from  the  two  Greek  words,  ii/n-os  hniiiu, 
to  go  on  the  extremities  of  one's  limbs.) 

Acrop'olis.  The  citadel  of  ancient 
Athens. 

Of  course,  tlie  word  is  compounded  of  n/rro.'s and 
piilis  z  the  city  on  the  height,  i.e.,  the  high  rock. 

Acros'tic  (Greek,  a7:ros  sticho.'i).  The 
term  was  first  applied  to  the  verses  of 
the  Erj'tlirsean  sibyl,  written  on  leaves. 
These  prophecies  were  e.xcessively  ob- 
scure ;  but  were  so  contrived  that  when 
the  leaves  were  sorted  and  laid  in  order, 
their  initial  letters  always  made  a  word. 
— Biongs.,  iv.  62. 

Acrostic  poelrg  among  the  Hebrews 
consisted  of  twenty-two  lines  or  stanzas 
beginning  with  the  letters  of  the  alphabet 
in  succession,  as  Psalm  cxix.,  etc. 

Acrostics.  Puzzles,  generally  in  verse, 
consisting  of  two  words  of  equal  length. 
The  initial  letters  of  the  several  lines 
constitute  one  of  the  secret  words,  and 
the  final  letters  constitute  the  other 
word. 

Also  words  re-arranged  so  as  to  make 
other  words  of  similar  significance,  as 
"  Horatio    Nelson  "    re-arranged    into 


Act 


12 


Ad  valorem 


Honor  cut  a  Nilo.  Auotlier  form  of 
acrostic  is  to  fiud  a  seiiteuce  which  reads 
the  same  backwards  and  forwards,  as 
E.T.L.N.L.T.E.,  the  initial  letters  of 
' '  Eat  To  Live,  Never  Live  To  Eat;"  which 
in  Latin  would  be,  E.U.V.N.V.U.E. 
{Edc  Ut  Vtra.s,  Ke  J'iras  Ut  Edm). 

Act  and  Opponency.      An   "Act," 

in  our  University  language,  consists  of 
a  thesis  and  "  dis2Dutation "  thereon, 
covering  continuous  parts  of  three  hours, 
'i'lie  person  "  disputing  "  with  the 
'■  keeper  of  the  Act  "  is  called  the  "op- 
ponent," and  his  function  is  called  an 
"opponency."  In  some  degrees  the 
student  is  required  to  keep  his  Act,  and 
then  to  bo  the  opponent  of  another 
disputant.  Much  alteration  in  these 
matters  has  been  introduced  of  late, 
with  other  college  reforms. 

Act  of  Faith  {auto  da  ft),  in  Spain, 
is  a  day  set  apart  by  the  Inquisition  for 
the  punishment  of  heretics,  and  the 
absolution  of  those  who  renounce  tlieir 
heretical  doctrines.  The  sentence  of  the 
Inquisition  is  also  so  called  ;  and  so  is 
the  cereTUony  of  burning,  or  otherwise 
torturing  tlie  condemned. 

Act  of  God  {An).  "Damnum  fatale," 
such  as  loss  by  lightning,  shipwreck, 
tire,  etc.  ;  loss  arising  from  fatality,  and 
not  from  one's  own  fault,  theft,  and  so 
on.  A  Devonshire  jury  once  found  a 
verdict—"  That  deceased  died  by  the 
act  of  God,  brought  about  by  the  flooded 
condition  of  the  river." 

Actseon.  A  hunter.  In  Grecian 
mythology  Actteon  was  a  huntsman,  who 
surprised  Diana  bathing,  was  changed 
by  her  into  a  stag,  and  torn  to  pieces 
by  his  own  hounds.  Hence,  a  man 
whose  wife  is  unfaithful.     {See  Horns.) 

"  Go  thou,  like  Sir  .^etipon,  with  Rinprwood  at  thy 
heel."  Slialcesiicaie :  Merry  Wives,  ii.  1. 

"Divulge  Papre  hiinsell  for  a  s  cure  an<l  wilful 
ActiBon."  Ibid.  iii.  2. 

Ac'tian  Years.  Years  in  wliich  the 
Actian  games  were  celebrated.  Au- 
gustus instituted  gajnes  at  Actium  to 
celebrate  his  naval  victory  over  Antony. 
They  were  held  every  five  years. 

Action  Sermon.  A  sacramental 
sermon  (in  the  Scots  Presbyterian 
Church). 

"  I  returned  home  about  seven,  anil  aildrea ^ed 
myself  towards  my  Action  Sermon,  Mrs.  Olivant." 
—E.  Irvimj. 

Ac'tive.  Active  verbs,  verbs  which  act 
on  the  noun  governed. 

Active  capital.  Property  in  actual 
employment  in  a  given  concern. 

Active  commerce.    Exports  and  imports 


carried  to  and  fro  in  our  own  ships. 
Passive  commerce  is  when  they  are  carried 
in  foreign  vessels.  The  commerce  of 
England  is  active,  of  Chinvi passive. 

Activity.  The  sphere  of  actiriti/,  the 
whole  field  through  which  the  influence 
of  an  object  or  person  extends. 

Acton.  A  taffeta,  or  leather-quilted 
dress,  worn  under  the  habergeon  to  keep 
the  body  from  being  chafed  or  bruised. 
(French,  hocqucton.') 

Actresses.  Female  characters  used 
to  be  plaj-ed  by  boys.  Coryat,  in  h's 
('rudities  (1611),  says,  "When  I  went 
to  a  theatre  (in  Venice)  I  observed 
certain  things  that  I  never  saw  before  ; 
for  I  saw  women  acte.  ...  I  have 
heard  that  it  hath  sometimes  been  used 
in  London"  (Vol.  ii.). 

"  Whereas,  women's  parts  in  plays  have  hitherto 
been  acted  liy  men  in  the  hahits  of  women  .  .  . 
we  do  permit  and  (,'ive  leave  for  the  time  tocome 
that  all  wiimeu's  parts  he  acted  hy  women,  ICtiJ." 
-Clinrlrs  II. 

The  first  female  actress  on  the  Enclish  sta^re 
was  Jlrs.  (dienian  (IGjU),  who  played  lautho 
in  I  he  Sifi/f  i,f  Hhiiili's. 

The  last  mali'  actor  that  took  the  p.irt  of  a 
woman  on  the  English  stage,  in  serinus  drama, 
was  Edward  Kynastou,  noted  for  his  heauty 
(1U1'J-1G,S7). 

Acu  tetigisti.  You  have  hit  the 
nail  on  the  head.  (Lit. ,  you  have  touched 
it  with  a  needle.)  Plautus  {linden^,  v. 
2,  19)  says,  "  Rem  acu  tetigisti  ;  "  and 
Cicero  {Pro  Milonc,  24)  has  "  Vulnus  acu 
punctuni,"  evidently  referring  to  a  sur- 
geon's probe. 

Acutia'tor.  A  person  in  the  Middle 
Ages  who  attended  armies  and  knights 
to  sharpen  their  iiistnnncnts  of  war. 
(Latin,  acuo,  to  shari^eu.) 

Ad  Graecas  Calendas.  (Deferred) 
to  the  Greek  Calends — i.e.,  for  ever. 
(It  shall  be  done)  on  the  Greek  Calends 
— i.e.,  never.  There  were  no  Calends 
in  the  Greek  notation  of  the  months. 
{See  Never.) 

Ad  inquirendum.  A  judicial  writ 
connnanding  an  inquiry  to  be  made  iuto 
some  complaint. 

Ad  libitum.     Without  restraint. 

Ad  rem  (Latin).  To  the  point  in 
hand ;  to  the  purfjose.  {Acu  rem  tcti- 
(jisti.)      {St'c  above,  Acu.) 

Ad  unum  omnes.     All  to  a  man 

(Latin). 

Ad  valo'rem.  According  to  the  price 
charged.  Some  custom  -  duties  vary 
according  to  the  different  values  of  the 
goods  imported.     Thus,  at  one  time  teas 


Ad  vitam 


13 


Adamant 


paid  duty  ad  valorem,  the  high-priced  tea 
paying  more  duty  than  that  of  a  lower 
price. 

Ad  vitam  aut  culpam.  A  Latin 
phrase,  used  iu  Scotch  law,  to  indicate 
the  legal  permanency  of  an  appoint- 
ment, unless  forfeited  by  misconduct. 

Adam.  The  Talmudists  say  that 
Adam  lived  in  Paradise  only  twelve 
hours,  and  account  for  the  time  thus  : — 

The  first  hour,  God  collected  the  dust 
and  animated  it. 

The  second  hour,  Adam  stood  on  his 
feet. 

The  fourth  hour,  he  named  the 
animals. 

The  sixth  hour,  he  slept  and  Eve  was 
created. 

The  seventh  hour,  he  married  the 
woman. 

The  tenth  hour,  he  fell. 

The  twelfth  hour,  he  was  thrust  out 
of  Paradise. 

The  Mohammedans  tell  us  he  fell  on 
Mount  Sereudib,  iu  Ceylon,  where  there 
is  a  curious  impression  in  the  granite 
resembling  a  human  foot,  above  o  feet 
long  and  22  feet  broad.  They  tell  us  it  was 
made  by  Adam,  who  stood  there  on  one 
foot  for  200  years  to  expiate  his  crime  ; 
when  Gabriel  took  him  to  Mount  Ara- 
fath,  where  he  found  Eve.  {Jiec  Adam's 
Peak.) 

Adam  vasbiirifd,  according  to  Arabian 
tradition,  on  Aboucais,  a  mountain  of 
Arabia. 

Adam.  The  old  Adam ;  beat  the 
ojf'eiidnuj  Adam  out  of  thee ;  the  first 
Adam.  Adam,  as  the  head  of  unre- 
deemed man,  stands  for  "original  sin," 
or  "  man  without  regenerating  grace." 

The  seeoiid  Adam ;  the  new  Adam,  etc.; 
I  irill  f/ivc  )jon  the  »ew  Adam.  Jesus 
Christ,  as  the  covenant  head,  is  so  called ; 
also  the  "  new  birth  unto  righteousness." 

Ifhen  Adam  delred  and  Eve  span. 
"  An  temps  passe,  Berthe  filait."  This 
Bertha  was  the  wife  of  liing  Pepin. 

'■  Wlien  Ailaiii  delved  and  Eve  spau, 
AVho  was  then  the  geutlemau  ?" 

Adam.  A  sergeant,  bailiff,  or  any 
one  clad  iu  buff,  or  a  skin-coat,  like 
Adam. 

'•  Xdt  tliat  Adaiix  that  kept  Paradise,  l)iit  that 
.\dam  that  keeps  the  prison."  —  Shake'peaie: 
Coined!/  of  Ei  run,  iv.  3. 

A  faithful  Adam.  A  faithful  old 
servant.  The  character  is  taken  from 
Shakespeare's  comedy  of  As  You  Like 
It,  whei'e  a  retainer  of  that  name,  who 
had  served  the  family  sixty -three  years, 
offers  to  accomj)any  Orlando  in  his  flight, 


and  to  share  with  him  his  thrifty  savings 
of  500  crowns. 

Adam  Bell.  A  northern  outlaw, 
whose  name  has  become  a  sj'nonym  for 
a  good  archer.  {See  Clym  of  the 
Clough.) 

Adam  Cupid— a.^*.,  Archer  Cupid, 
perhaps  with  allusion  to  Adam  Bell, 
the  celebrated  archer.  (See  Terefs 
Itcliqucs,  vol.  i.,  p.  7.) 

Adam's  Ale.  Water  as  a  beverage  ; 
from  the  supposition  that  Adam  had 
nothing  but  water  to  drink.  In  Scotland 
water  for  a  beverage  is  called  Adam's 
Wine. 

Adam's  Apple.  The  protuberance 
in  the  fore-part  of  a  man's  throat ;  so 
called  from  the  superstition  that  a  piece 
of  the  forbidden  fruit  which  Adam  ate 
stuck  in  his  throat,  and  occasioned  the 
swelling. 

Adam's  Needle.  The  yucca,  so  called 
because  it  is  sharp-pointed  like  a  needle. 

Adam's  Peak,  iu  Ceylon,  is  where  the 
Arabs  say  Adam  bewailed  his  expulsion 
from  Paradise,  and  stood  on  one  foot  till 
God  forgave  him.  It  was  the  Portuguese 
who  first  called  it  "  Pico  de  Adam." 
{See  Kaaba.) 

In  the  granite  is  the  mark  nf  a  human  foot, 
above  .5  feet  h)US  by  -Jj  broad,  said  to  have  been 
made  liy  Adam,  wlio,  ve  are  told,  sto(jd  there  on 
one  foot  for  2ixi  years,  to  expiate  his  crime.  After 
his  penance  he  was  restored  to  Eve.  The  Hindiis 
assert  tliat  the  footprint  is  that  made  by  Buddlia, 
when  he  ascended  to  heaven. 

Adam's  Profession.  Gardening, 
agriculture.  Adam  was  appointed  by 
God  to  dress  the  garden  of  Eden,  and  to 
keep  it  (Gen.  ii.  15)  ;  and  after  the  fall 
he  was  sent  out  of  the  garden  ' '  to  till 
the  ground"  (Gen.  iii.  2',i). 

"  There  is  no  ancient  L-cntlemen.  bnt  gardeners, 
ditchers,  and  grave-makers  ;  they  hokl  np  Adam's 
profession."— J/ie  Cluicii  in'' Hamlet  "  v.  1. 

Adams.  Parson  Adams,  the  ideal  of 
a  benevolent,  simple-minded,  eccentric 
country  clergyman;  ignorant  of  the 
world,  bold  as  a  lion  for  the  truth,  and 
modest  as  a  girl.  The  character  is  in 
Fielding's  novel  of  Joseph  Andrors. 

Adamant  is  really  the  mineral  cor- 
undum ;  but  the  word  is  indifferently 
used  for  rock  crystal,  diamond,  or  any 
hard  substance,  and  also  for  the  magnet 
or  loadstone.  It  is  often  used  by  poets 
for  no  specific  substance,  but  as  hardness 
or  firmness  in  the  abstract.  Thus, 
Virgil,  in  his  ^-Eneid  vi.  552,  speaks  of 
"adamantine  pillars  "  merely  to  exjiress 
solid  and  strong  ones  ;  and  Milton  fre- 
quently uses  the  word  in  the  same  way. 


Adamastor 


1-t 


Adept 


Thus,  in  Paradise  Lost,  ii.  436,  he  says 
the  gates  of  hell  were  made  of  bumiug 
adamaut : 

"This  liuge  convex  of  flio 
Outrageous  to  devour,  immures  us  round 
Ninefold,  and  gates  of  burning  adamant 
Btirred  over  us  proliibit  all  egre.^s." 

Satan,  he  tells  us,  wore  adamautine 
armour  (Book  vi.  110): 

"Satan,  with  vast  and  haughty   strides   ad- 
vanced, 
Came  towering,  armed  in  adamant  and  gold." 

Aud  a  little  further  on  he  tells  us  his 
shield  was  made  of  adamaut  (vL  255) : 

"  He  [Satan]  hasted,  and  opposed  the  rocky  orb 
Of  ten-fold  adamant,  his  ample  shield 
A  vast  circumference." 

Tasso  (canto  vii.  82)  speaks  of  .sciidn 
di  htcidissimo  diamante  (a  shield  of 
clearest  diamond). 

Other  poets  make  adamant  to  mean 
the  magnet.  Thus,  in  Troilus  and  Crcs- 
sida,  iii.  2  : 

"  As  true  as  steel,  as  plantage  to  the  moon, 
As  sun  to  day,  as  turtle  to  her  mate, 
As  iron  to  adamant." 

("Plantage  to  the  moon,"  from  the  notion  that 
plants  grew  liest  with  the  increasing  moon.) 

And  Green  says : 

"  As  true  to  thee  as  steel  to  adamant." 

So,  in  the  Arabian  Xiffhts,  the  "  Third 
Calendar,"  we  read: 

"To-morrow  about  noon  we  shall  lie  near  the 
black  mountain,  or  mine  of  adamant,  which  at 
this  very  minute  draws  all  your  fleet  towards  it, 
by  virtue  of  the  iron  in  your  ships." 

Adamant  is  a  (negative)  and  damao  (to 
conquer).  Pliny  tells  us  there  are  six 
iiubreakable  stones  (xxxvii.  15),  but  the 
classical  adamas  (gen.  adaiiia>it-i.s)  is 
generally  supjjosed  to  mean  the  diamond. 
Diamond  aud  adamant  are  originally  the 
same  word. 

Adamastor.  The  spirit  of  the 
stormy  Cape  (Good  Hope),  described  by 
Camoens  in  the  Lusiad  as  a  hideous 
phantom.  According  to  Barreto,  he  was 
one  of  tlie  giants  who  invaded  heaven. 

Adam'ic  Covenant.  The  covenant 
made  with  God  to  Adam,  that  "the 
seed  of  tlie  woman  should  bruise  the 
serpent's  head  "  (Gen.  iii.  15). 

Ad'amites  (3  syl.).  A  sect  of  fanatics 
who  spread  themselves  over  Bohemia 
and  Moravia  in  the  fifteenth  and  six- 
teenth centuries.  One  Picard,  of  Bo- 
liemia,  was  the  founder  in  1400,  aud 
styled  himself  "  Adam,  sou  of  God." 
He  professed  to  recall  his  followers  to 
the  state  of  primitive  innocence.  No 
clothes  were  worn,  wives  were  in  com- 
mon, and  there  was  no  such  thing  as 
good  and  evil,  but  all  actions  were  in- 
dilfereut.  .  - 


Ad'aran',  according  to  the  Parsee 
superstition,  is  a  sacred  fire  less  holy 
than  that  called  Behx-am  {q.v.). 

Adays.  Noicadai/s,  at  the  present 
time  (or  day).  So  in  Latin,  Xiincdieram. 
and  Xtinc  tonjjoris.  The  pretix  "a"  = 
at,  of,  or  Oil.  Simularly,  aniijlifs,  of  late, 
on  Sundays.     All  used  adverbially. 

Addison  of  the  North— /.r.,  Henry 
Mackenzie,  the  author  of  the  Man  of 
Ftrluifj  (1745-1831). 

Addixit,  or  Addixc'rnnt  (Latin). 
All  right.  The  word  uttered  by  the 
augurs  when  the  "  birds  "  were  favour- 
able. 

Addle  is  the  Old  English  adcli 
(tilth ),  hence  rotten,  j)utrid,  worthless. 

Addled  egg,  better  '•  addle-egg,"  a 
worthless  egg.  An  egg  which  has  not 
the  vital  principle. 

Addle -headed,  addle-pate,  empty- 
headed.  As  an  addle-egg  produces  no 
living  bird,  so  an  addle-i)ate  lacks 
brains. 

Addle  Parliament  {T/ie)  —  bth  April  to 
7th  June,  1614,  So  called  because  it 
did  not  jiass  one  single  measure.  (61  e 
Parliament.) 

Adelantado.  A  big-wig,  the  great 
boss  of  the  place.  It  is  a  Spanish  word 
for  "  his  excellency "  {adehaitar,  to 
excel),  and  is  given  to  the  governor 
of  a  province. 

"Open  no  door.  If  the  adelantado  of  Spain 
were  liere  he  should  not  eMvr.'—Ben  Juitsoii: 
Frcru  Man  vat  of  his  Hiimom;  v.  4. 

Ad'emar,  or  Adema'ro  (in  Jerusalem 
Delivered).  Archbishop  of  Poggio,  au 
ecclesiastical  warrior,  who  with  Wil- 
liam, Archbishop  of  Orange,  besought 
Pope  Urban  ou  his  knees  th:it  he 
might  be  sent  on  the  crusade.  He  took 
400  armed  men  from  Poggio,  but  tlicy 
sneaked  off  diu'ing  a  drouglit,  aud  lelt 
the  crusade  (Book  xili.).  Aderaar  was 
not  alive  at  the  time,  he  had  been  slain 
at  tlie  attack  on  Antioch  by  Clorinda 
(Book  xi.) ;  but  in  the  final  attack  ou 
Jerusalem,  his  spirit  came  with  three 
squadrons  of  angels  to  aid  the  besiegers 
(Book  xviii.). 

Adept'  properly  means  one  who  has 
attained  (from  the  Latin,  adeptus,  jiarti- 
ciple  of  ((dipiscor).  The  alchemists 
applied  the  term  rere  adeptus  to  those 
persons  who  professed  to  have  ' '  attained 
to  the  knowledge  of"  the  elixir  of  life 
or  of  the  philosopher's  stone. 

Alchemists  tell  us  there  are  always  II  adepts, 
neither  more  nor  less.    Like  the  sacred  chickens 


Adeasenarians 


15 


Adonai 


of  Ciiiiiposfella,  of  which  there  are  only  2  and 
always  -—a  cuck  and  a  hen. 

"  In  Rdsicrucian  lore  as  learn'd 
As  he  that,  i\re  aUcptus  earu'd." 

K  Butler :  Hudibras. 

Adcs'scna'rians.  A  temi  aiipliecl  to 
thosi!  wlio  hold  tlie  real  presence  of 
Christ's  body  in  the  eucharist,  hut  do 
not  maintain  that  the  bread  and  vviue 
lose  any  of  their  original  properties. 
(The  word  is  from  the  Latin  adcubc,  to 
be  present.) 

Ades'te  Fide'les.  Composed  by 
John  Ecading,  who  wrote  "Dulce 
Domum."  It  is  called  the  "Portuguese 
Hymn,"  from  being  heard  at  the  Portu- 
guese Chapel  by  the  Duke  of  Leeds,  who 
supposed  it  to  be  a  part  of  the  usual 
Portuguese  service. 

Adfil'iate,  Adfilia  tion.  The  ancient 
Goths  adopted  the  children  of  a  former 
marriage,  and  put  them  on  the  same 
footing  as  those  of  the  new  family. 
(Latin,  ad-JHins,  equal  to  a  real  son.) 

Adha,  (il  {the  slit --cared).  The  swiftest 
of  Mahomet's  camels. 

Ad'bab-al-Cabr.  The  first  purgatory 
of  the  Mahometans. 

Adiaph'orists.  Followers  of  Me- 
lanchthou  ;  moderate  Lutherans,  who 
hold  that  .some  of  the  dogmas  of  Luther 
are  matters  of  indifference.  (Greek, 
(idkiph'oroK,  indifferent.) 

Macaulaij  :  Esmij,  Burleigh. 

Adieu,  good-b'ye.  A  Bieu,  an  ellip- 
tical fonn  for  /  commend  you  to  God. 
Good-b'ye  is  God  be  with  ye. 

Adis'sechen.  The  serjjent  with  a 
thousand  heads  which  sustains  the  uni- 
verse.    {^Indian  mythology.') 

Adjective  Colours  are  those  which 
require  a  mordant  before  they  can  be 
used  as  dyes. 

Adjourn'.  Once  written  r(/or«.  French, 
ci-journer,  to  put  off  to  another  day. 

"He  ajorned  tliani  v.)  relie  in  the  Nuith  of 
Caricle."— ioH(y(o/t.-  Clironuii/,  \<.  3nj. 

Adjournment  of  the  House.  {See 
Moving  the  Adjouexmext.) 

Admirable  (The).  Aben-Ezra,  a 
Spanish  rabbi,  born  at  Toledo  (1119- 
1174). 

Admirable  Crichton  {The).  James 
Crichton  {kry-tou).     (1551-1573.) 

Admirable  Doctor  {Doctor  admira- 
hilis).     Roger  Bacon  (r214-r292). 


■al. 


Admiral,    corruption    of    Amir 
Milton,  speaking  of  Satan,  says  : — 

"  HiB  siiear  (to  eiiual  which  tlie  talle.-st  pino 
Hewn  on  Xorwc.Lriau  hills,  lo  bo  th(!  mast 
()t  sonic  tali  nniii-al.  were  hut  a  wand) 
Ho  walked  \\\\.\i ." —Paradise  Lost,  i.  :;»•_'. 
The  word  was  introduced  by  the  Turks 
or  Genoese  in  the  twelfth  century,  and 
is  the  Arabic  Amir  with  the  article  al 
(lord   or  commander)  ;   as  Amir-al-ma 
(commander  of    the   water),    Amir-al- 
Umra  (commander  of  the  forces),  Awir- 
al-Muminim  (commander  of  the  faith- 
ful). 

English  admirals  used  to  be  of  three 
classes,  according  to  the  colour  of  their 
flag— 

Admiral  of  the  Jitrl,  used  to  hold  the 
centre  in  an  engagement. 

Admiral  of  the  JJ'hite,  used  to  hold 
the  van. 

Admiral  of  the  Blue,  used  to  hold  the 
rear. 

The  distinction  was  abolished  in  1861  ; 
now  all  admirals  carry  the  white  flag. 

Admirals  are  called  I'l/ig  Officers. 

Admiral  of  the  Blue.  A  butcher  who 
dresses  in  blue  to  conceal  blood-stains. 
A  tapster  also  is  so  called,  from  his  blue 
apron.  A  play  on  the  rear-admiral  of 
the  British  navy,  called  "  Admiral  of  the 
Blue  (Flag)." 

"As  soon  as  customers  begin  to  stir 
The  Admiral  of  the  Blue  cries, '  Cominsr,  Sir  ' " 
Poor  Jiobl,,,  1731. 

Admiral  of  the  Red.  A  punning 
tenn  applied  to  a  wiue-bibber  whose 
face  and  nose  are  very  red. 

Admittance.  Licence.  Shakesj^earo 
says.  "  Sir  John,  you  are  a  gentleman  of 
excellent  breeding,  of  great  admittance  " 
— ?'.('.,  to  whom  great  freedom  is  allowed 
{Merry  IVivcs,  ii.  2).  The  allusion  is  to 
an  obsolete  custom  called  admig.^ioii,  l)y 
which  a  prince  avowed  another  prince 
to  be  under  his  protection.  Mnximiliaii, 
Emperor  of  Mexico,  was  the ' '  admittaut ' ' 
of  the  Emperor  Napoleon  III. 

Admonitionists,    or    Admonition- 

ers.  Certain  Puritans  who  in  1.571  sent 
an  admonition  to  the  Parliament  con- 
demning everything  in  the  Church  of 
England  which  was  not  in  accordance 
with  the  doctrines  and  practices  of 
Geue'va. 

Adolpha.  Daughter  of  General 
Kleiner,  governor  of  Prague  and  wife 
of  Ideustein.  Her  only  fault  was 
''excess  of  too  sweet  nature,  which 
ever  made  another's  gi-ief  her  own." — • 
Knowlcs  :  Maid  of  Maricjidorpt  (1838). 

Adonai.  Son  of  the  star-beam,  and 
god   of  light  among  the   Rosicru  cians. 


Adonais 


16 


Adrastus 


One  of  the  names  given  by  the  Jews  to 
Jehovah,  for  fear  of  breaking  the  com- 
mand, "Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name 
of  tlie  Lord  [Jehovah]  thy  God  in  vain." 

Adona'is  (4  syl.).  The  song  about 
Ado'nis  ;  Shelley's  elegy  on  Keats  is  so 
called.    Sec  Bion's  Lament  for  Adonis. 

Ado'nies.  Feasts  of  Adonis,  cele- 
brated in  Assyria,  Alexandria,  Egypt, 
Judea,  Persia,  Cyprus,  and  all  Greece, 
for  eiglit  daj's.  Lucian  gives  a  long 
description  of  them.  In  these  feasts 
wlieat,  flowers,  herbs,  fruits,  and 
branches  of  trees  were  carried  in  pro- 
cession, and  thrown  into  the  sea  or  some 
fountain. 

Ado'nis.  A  beautiful  boy.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  Ado'nis,  who  was  beloved  by 
Venus,  and  was  killed  by  a  boar  while 
hunting. 

"  Rose-cheeked  Adonis  liiert  liim  to  the  chase  ; 
Huutiiif-'    he    loved ;   but  love  he  laughed  to 

SL-oru. 
Siok-fhou.^'htecl  Venus  makes  amain  unto  him, 
And,  like  ii  bold-faced  suitor, 'gius  to  woo  him." 
iSliaket'peare:  Venus  and  Adoiiis, 

Adonis  of  50.  Leigh  Hunt  was  sent 
to  prison  for  applying  this  term  to 
George  IV.  when  Regent. 

Adonis  Flower  (T//e),  according  to 
Bion,  is  the  rose ;  Pliny  (i.  23)  says  it 
is  the  anemone ;  others  say  it  is  the  field 
poppy,  certainly  the  prince  of  weeds  ; 
but  what  we  now  generally  mean  by  the 
Adonis  flower  is  jiheasant's  eye,  called  in 
French  ffontc-dc  miif/,  because  in  fable 
it  sprang  from  the  blood  of  the  gored 
hunter. 

"Ai(ia  poSov  TtKTei,  Ta  Se  BaKpvarav  ave)xii>vai'." 

(Blood  briiif-'S  forth  roses,  tears  anemone.)— K'""  .' 
Elean  (i».  AdiDiis,  See  also  Ovid:  McUiiiwrplioscs, 
Bk.  X.,  Fable  l.'..) 

Adonis  Garden,  or  A  gardoi  of 
Ado>ns  (Greek).  A  worthless  toy ;  a 
very  perishable  good.  Tlie  allusion  is 
to  the  fennel  and  lettuce  jars  of  the 
ancient  Greeks,  called  "  Adonis  gar- 
dens," because  these  herbs  were  planted 
in  them  for  the  annual  festival  of  the 
young  huntsman,  and  thrown  away  the 
next  morning.     (1  Iloiry  VI.,  i.  6.) 

Adonis  River.    A  river  in  Phoenicia, 
which  always  runs  red   at   the   season 
of  the  year  when  the  feast  of  Adonis  is 
held.     The  legend  ascribes  this  redness 
to   sympathy   with   the   young  hunter ; 
others  ascribe  it  to  a  sort  of  minium,  or 
red  earth,  which  mixes  with  the  water. 
"  Thammuz  came  next  behind, 
Who.se  annual  wound  in  Lebanon  allured 
The  Syrian  damsels  to  lament  his  fate 
111  amorous  ditties  all  a  summer's  day, 
■\vbil''  smooth  Adonis  from  his  native  rock 
liau  I'wri'le  to  the  sea,  supposed  with  blood 
t)f  'I'liammuz  yearly  wounded." 

MiUon  :  Paradise  Lost,  Book  1,  line  4-15,  etc. 


Ado'nists.  Those  Jews  who  maintain 
that  the  proper  vowels  of  the  word  Je- 
hovah are  unknown,  and  that  the  word 
is  never  to  be  pronounced  Ado'iiai. 
(Hebrew,  adon,  lord.) 

Adop'tion.  Adoption  bi/  arins.  An 
ancient  custom  of  giving  arms  to  a 
person  of  merit,  which  1  lid  liim  under 
the  obligation  of  being  j-our  champion 
and  defender. 

Adoption  by  baptism.  Being  god- 
father or  godmother  to  a  child.  The 
child  by  liajitism  is  your  god-child. 

uidoption  by  hair.  Cutting  off  your 
hair,  and  giving  it  to  a  person  in  proof 
that  you  receive  him  as  your  adopted 
father.  Thus  Boson,  King  of  Aries,  cut 
off  liis  liair  and  gave  it  to  Pope  Jolui 
VIII.,  who  adojited  him. 

Adoption  Controversy.  Eliitand, 
Archbishop  of  Tole'do,  and  Felix,  Bishop 
of  Urgel,  maintained  that  Jesus  Christ 
in  liis  human  nature  was  the  son  of  God 
bj^  adoption  only  (Rom.  viii.  29),  though 
in  his  pre-existing  state  he  was  the  "  be- 
gotten Son  of  God "  in  the  ordinary 
catholic  acceptation.  Duns  Scotus,  Du- 
randus,  Calixtus,  and  others  supported 
this  view. 

Adop'tionist.  A  disciple  of  Elipand, 
Archbishop  of  Tole'do,  and  Felix,  Bishop 
of  Urgel  (in  Spain),  is  so  called. 

Adore  (2  syl.)  means  to  "  carry  to 
one's  mouth"  "to  kiss"  (ad-os,  ad- 
ordrc).  The  Romans  performed  adora- 
tion by  jjlacing  their  right  hand  on  their 
mouth  and  bowing.  The  Greeks  paid 
adoration  to  kings  by  putting  the  royal 
robe  to  their  lips.  The  Jews  kissed  in 
homage :  thus  God  said  to  Elijah  he 
had  7,000  in  Israel  who  had  not  bowed 
unto  Baal,  "every  mouth  which  hath 
not  kissed  him  "  (1  Kngs  xix.  18  ; 
see  aim  Hos.  xiii.  2).  "Kiss  the  Son 
lest  He  be  angry  "  (Psalm  ii.  12),  means 
worship,  reverence  the  Son.  Even  in 
England  we  do  homage  by  kissing  the 
hand  of  the  sovereign. 

Adram'melech.  God  of  the  people 
of  Sepharvaim,  to  whom  infants  were 
burnt  in  sacrifice  (Kings  xvii.  31).  Prob- 
ably the  sun. 

Adrastus.  An  Indian  prince  from 
the  banks  of  the  Ganges,  who  aided  the 
King  of  Egypt  against  the  crusaders. 
He  wore  a  serpent's  skin,  and  rode  on 
an  elephant.  Adrastus  was  slain  by 
Rinaldo. — Tasso  :  Jerusalem  Delivered, 
Book  XX. 


Adrian 


17 


Advowson 


Adrian  (Si.),  represented,  iu  Chris- 
tian art,  with  an  anvil,  and  a  sword  or 
axe  close  by  it.  He  had  his  limbs  cut 
off  on  a  smith's  anvil,  and  was  after- 
wards beheaded.  St.  Adrian  is  the 
patron  saint  of  tlie  Flemish  brewers. 

Adriel,    in    Dryden's    Ahtialom    and 

AcJt'itopJicI,   is  meant  for    the   Earl  of 
Mulgrave. 

"Sliarp-iiulsiii;,'  A(lri>'l,  the  muses'  frienil, 
Hiniscif  :i  ijiusi' :  in  S  inlie.lriiii's  ileli;ite 
Tnii>  til  liis  )i|-inrr.  liiit  noi  ;,  sl:i\.'  .if  state  ; 
Wliiiiii  l)a\i(l<  l.n,-  null  hi.ieiiii-s  dhl  ailoril, 
Tliut  frciui  Ills  (|isohe>lieiU  Si.ii  w.-ie  lovn." 

Part  T. 

Adrift.  /  ai)i  all  adrift.  He  is  quite 
adrift.  Til  turn  one  adrift.  Sea  phrases. 
A  sliip  is  said  to  be  adrift  when  it  has 
broken  from  its  moorings,  and  is  driven 
at  random  by  the  winds.  To  be  adrift 
is  to  be  wide  of  the  mark,  or  not  iu  the 
right  course.  To  turn  one  adrift  is  to 
turn  him  from  liouse  and  home  to  go 
his  own  way. 

Adroit'  jiroperly  nieans  ' '  to  tlio 
right"  (French,  a  droitc).  The  French 
call  a  person  who  is  not  adroit  (jauchc 
(left-handed),  meaning  awkward,  boor- 
ish. 

Adsidel  ta.  The  table  at  which  the 
flamous  sat  during  sacrifice. 

AduUamites  (4  syl.).  The  adherents 
of  Lowe  and  Horsman,  seceders  in  IHCiG 
from  tlie  Reform  Partj'.  John  Biiglit 
said  of  tliese  members  that  they  retired 
to  the  cave  of  AduUam,  and  tried  to 
gather  round  them  all  the  discontented. 
The  allusion  is  to  David  in  his  flight 
from  Saul,  who  "  escai^ed  to  the  cave 
Adullam;  and  every  one  that  was  in 
distress,  and  every  one  that  was  in  debt, 
and  every  one  that  was  discontented, 
gathered  themselves  unto  him"  (1  Sam. 
xxii.  1,  2). 

Advauncar.  The  second  branches  of 
a  stag's  horn. 

"In  a  hart  the  main  hnrne  itself  they  call  the 
beame.  The  lowest  antliei-  is  called  the  hinic- 
antlier;  the  next,  rojaJ ;  the  next  that,  sitn'oui/; 
and  then  the  top. 

"In  a  buck,  they  say  hnr.  heamv.,  hrauvcli,  ail- 
vaunrers,  paline,  and  speilers."— Mai  wood :  Forest 
La  iLvs. 

Advent.  Four  weeks  to  comme- 
morate the  first  and  second  coming  of 
.Christ ;  the  first  to  redeem,  and  th'i 
second  to  judge  the  world.  The  season 
begins  on  St.  Andrew's  Day,  or  the  Sun- 
day nearest  to  it.  (Latin,  ad-venfiis,  the 
coming  to.) 

Ad'vsrsary  (The).  Satan.  (1  Fet. 
V.  8.) 

Advocato  i^iii)  means  one  called  to 


assist  clients  in  a  court  of  law.     (Latin, 
adrucdrc.) 

The  DcriVs  Adrocate.  One  who  brings 
forward  mtilicious  accusations.  When 
any  name  is  proposed  for  canonisation 
iu  the  lloman  Catholic  Church,  two 
advocates  are  appointed,  one  to  oppose 
the  motion  and  one  to  defend  it.  The 
former,  called  Adroca'tns  l)iuh'oli  (the 
Devil's  Advocate),  advances  all  he  can 
against  the  person  in  question ;  the 
latter,  called  Adroca'tns  Dei  (God's 
Ads'ocate),  says  all  he  can  in  support 
of  tlie  propostil. 

Advocates'  Library,  in  Edinburgh, 
founded  168'2,  is  one  of  the  five  libraries 
to  which  copyright  books  are  sent.  {See 
Copyright.)' 

Advowson  means  the  right  of  ap- 
pointing the  incumbent  of  a  clmrdi  or 
ecclesiastical  benefice.  In  mediaeval  times 
the  "advocacy"  or  patronnge  of 
bishoprics  and  abbeys  was  freipiently  in 
the  hands  of  powerful  nobles,  who  often 
claimed  the  right  to  appoint  in  the  event 
of  a  vacancy  ;  lience  the  word  (f  ri  nu 
Latin,  adrocatio,  the  office  of  a  jiatron). 

A  presentatire  adroirson  is  when  the 
patron  presents  to  tlie  bishop  a  person  to 
whom  he  is  willing  to  give  the  i)lace  of 
preferment. 

A  eolla'tire  adroicson  is  when  the 
liisho})  himself  is  patron,  and  collates  his 
client  without  any  intermediate  person. 

A  don'atire  adroirson  is  where  the 
Crown  gives  a  living  to  a  clergyman 
without  presentation,  institution,  or  in- 
duction. This  is  done  when  a  church  or 
chapel  has  been  founded  by  the  Crown, 
and  is  not  subject  to  the  ordinary. 

Adroirson  in  f/ross  is  an  advowson 
separated  from  the  manor,  and  belong- 
ing wliolly  to  the  owner.  Wliile  at- 
tached to  the  manor  it  is  an  advowson 
appendant.  "  Grops  "  (French)  means 
h,bsolute,  entire  ;  thus  gross  weight  is 
the  entire  weight  without  deductions. 
A  rillain  in  gross  was  a  villain  tlie 
entire  property  of  his  master,  and  not 
attached  to  the  land.  A  common  in  ijross 
is  one  which  is  entirely  j'our  own,  anil 
which  belongs  to  the  manor. 

Sale  of  Adroirsons.  When  lords  of 
manors  built  churches  upon  their  owu 
demesnes,  and  endowed  tliem,  they  be- 
came i^rivato  property,  whicli  the  lord 
might  give  away  or  even  sell,  under 
certain  limitations.  These  livings  ;iro 
called  ^Idroirsoris  appcii'dant,  being  ap- 
pended to  the  manor.  After  a  time  they 
became  regular  "  commercial  property," 


Adytum 


18 


2Eon 


and  we  still  see  the  sale  of  some  of  them 
in  the  public  joiiruals. 

Ad'ytum.  The  Holy  of  Holies  in  the 
(iruek  aud  Roman  temples,  into  which 
the  general  j)ublic  were  not  admitted. 
(Greek,  a-ditton  :^  not  to  be  entered  ; 
(inn,  to  go.) 

JE'diles  (2  syl.)-  Those  who,  in 
nnciiMit  Home,  had  charge  of  the  public 
buildings  (rtv/cv),  such  as  the  temples, 
theatres,  baths,  aqueducts,  sewers,  in- 
cluding roads  and  streets  also. 

.^geus  (2  syl.).  A  fabxdous  king  of 
Athens  who  gave  name  to  the  ^guan 
Sea.  His  son,  Theseus,  went  to  Ci'ete 
to  deliver  Athens  from  the  tribute  ex- 
acted by  Minos.  Theseus  said,  if  he 
succeeded  he  would  hoist  a  white  sail  on 
his  home-voyage,  as  a  signal  of  his 
safety.  This  he  neglected  to  do  ;  and 
iEgeus,  who  watched  the  ship  from  a 
rock,  thinking  his  son  had  jierished, 
threw  himself  into  the  sea. 

This  incident  has  been  copied  in  the 
tale  of  Sir  Tristram  and  Ysoldc.  Sir 
Tristram  being  severely  wounded  in 
Brittany,  sent  for  Ysolde  to  come  and 
see  him  before  he  died.  He  told  his 
messenger,  if  Ysolde  conssnted  to  come 
to  hoist  a  white  Hag.  Sir  Tristram's 
wife  told  him  the  ship  was  in  sight  with 
a  black  tlag  at  the  helm,  whereupon 
Sir  Tristram  bowed  his  head  aud  died. 
[Tristr.vji.] 

.^gine'tan  Sculptures.  Sculjjtures 
excavated  bv  a  company  of  Germans, 
Danes,  and  English  (ISll),  in  the  little 
island  of  ^gi'na.  They  were  purchased 
by  Ludwig,  Crown  Prince  of  Bavaria, 
and  are  now  the  most  remarkable  orna- 
ments of  the  Glyptothek,  at  Miinich. 

^gir*.  God  of  the  ocean,  whose  wife 
is  liana.  They  had  nine  daughters,  who 
wore  white  robes  and  veils  (Scui/diii- 
iirirui  iiii/t/tolo!/!/).  These  daughters  are 
the  billows,  etc.  The  word  means ''to 
How." 

JE'gis.  The  shield  of  Jupiter  made 
by  Vulcan  was  so  called,  and  .symbolised 
"Divine  protection."  The  shield  of 
Minerva  was  called  an  evf/is  also.  The 
shield  of  Jupiter  was  covered  with  the 
skin  of  the  goat  Anraltha-a,  and  the 
Greek  for  goat  is,  in  the  genitive  case, 
(lif/os.  The  »gis  made  by  Vulcan  was 
of  brass. 

I  tliroir  mil  (tgis  over  you,  I  give  you 
my  protection. 

.^gro'tat.  To  sport  an  (pqrolat.  In 
university    parlance,    an    aegrotat    is   a 


medical  certificate  of  indisposition  to 
exempt  the  bearer  from  attending  chapel 
and  college  lectures. 

A  E  I  {^A — i),  a  common  motto  on 
jewellery,  means  "  for  ever  and  for 
aj'e."     (Greek.; 

.^lu'rus.  The  cat.  An  Egyptian 
deity  held  in  the  greatest  veneration. 
Herodutus  (ii.  66)  tells  us  that  Diana, 
to  avoid  being  molested  by  the  giants, 
changed  herself  into  a  cat.  Tlie  deity 
used  to  be  rejjresented  with  a  cat's  head 
on  a  human  body.  (Greek,  ailouros, 
a  cat.) 

.^milian  Law.  Mad3  bv  iEiuilius 
Mamercus  the  pi'a^tor.  It  enjoined  that 
the  oldest  jjriest  should  drive  a  nail  every 
year  into  the  capitol  on  the  ides  of  Sep- 
tember (Sejitember  ;>). 

.^monia  .^mo'nian  (Hxmoxia 
H.f.monian). 

.^ne'as.  The  hero  of  Virgil's  oiiic. 
He  carried  his  father  Anchi'ses  on  his 
shoulders  from  the  flames  of  Troy.  After 
roaming  about  for  many  years,  he  came 
to  Italy,  where  he  founded  a  colony 
which  the  Romans  claim  as  their  origin. 
The  epithet  applied  to  him  is  p't us  =  pious, 
dutiful. 

.^ne'id.  The  epic  poem  of  Yu'gil, 
(in  twelve  book.s).  So  called  from 
^■Enc'iis  aud  the  suffi.x  -is,  plur.  i(Ks 
(belonging  to). 

"The  story  of  Sinoii/'-savs  M-icro'iiu-i.  ".anil  the 
t.'ikiiii.'  of  Troy  is  horroweil  from  Pisamlcr. 

"  Till'  loyi's  of  Diilo  and  .Eiieis  are  taken  from 
those  of  Medei  aud  Jasou,  in  Apolloiiius  of 
i;iio,les. 

■"Tliestorv  of  tlie  Wooden  Horse  anil  liurnin&' 
of  Troy  i,  fr.im  Areiliius  of  Mile.ns." 

.^ol'ic  Digamma.  An  ancient 
Greek  letter  (p),  sounded  like  our  n\ 
Thus  o'tiios  with  the  digamma  was 
sounded  woiuos ;  whence  the  Latin 
riiium,  our  irinc.  Gamma,  or  //,  was 
shaped  thus  f",  hence  digamma  = 
double  //. 

.^olic  Mode,  in  music,  noted  for  its 
simplicity,  tit  for  ballads  aud  songs. 
The  Phrygian  Mode  was  for  religious 
music,  as  hymns  and  anthems. 

.^'olus,  in  Roman  mythologj',  wa3 
"  god  of  the  winds." 

^■Eo/ian  /larp.  The  wind-harp.  A  box 
on  which  strings  are  stretched.  Being 
placed  where  a  draught  gets  to  the 
strings,  they  utter  musical  sounds. 

.^on  (Greek,  n'toii),  eternity,  an  im- 
measurable length  of  time ;  any  being 
that  is  eternal.  BasilidGs  reckons  there 
have  been  365  such  teons,  or  gods ;  but 


MrA 


19 


Aetites 


Valentinius  resti'icts  the  number  to  30. 
Sometimes  writteu  "eon." 

In  Lreiilo'.'y  each  series  (if  rucks  covers  an  ;von, 
or  an  iudetlnite  and  immeasurable  period  of 
time. 

JExa.     [Era.] 

Aerated  Bread.  Bread  made  light 
by  means  of  carbonic  acid  gas  instead  of 
leaven. 

Aerated  Water.  Water  impregnated 
with  carbonic  acid  gas,  called  Jixed  air. 

Ae'rians.  Followers  of  Ae'rius,  who 
maintained  that  there  is  no  difference 
between  bishops  and  priests. 

.^s'chylus  (Greek,  Aio-xuAo?),  the 
most  sublime  of  the  Greek  tragic  poets. 
He  wrote  90  plays,  only  7  of  which 
are  now  extant.  iEscliylus  was  killed 
by  a  tortoise  thrown  by  an  eagle  (to 
break  the  shell)  against  his  bald  head, 
which  it  mistook  for  a  stone  (b.c.  o3o- 
4o6).     See  Horace,  Ars  I'ocilca,  278. 

Pronounce  Ecs'-ke-lKs. 

.ffis'chylus  of  France.  Prosper 
Jolyot  de  Orebillon.     (1674-1702.) 

.^scula'pius.  The  Latin  form  of 
tlie  Gieek  word  Asklepios,  the  god  of 
medicine  and  of  healing.  Now  used  for 
' '  a  medical  practitioner. ' ' 

.Xsir,  plural  of  As  or  Asa,  the  celestial 
gods  of  Scandinavia,  who  lived  in  As- 
gard  (god's  ward),  situate  on  the  hea- 
venly hills  between  earth  and  the  rain- 
bow. The  chief  was  Odin.  We  are  told 
that  there  were  twelve,  but  it  would  be 
hard  to  determine  who  the  twelve  are, 
for,  like  Arthur's  knights,  the  number 
seems  variable.  The  following  may  be 
mentioned: — (1)  (Jdin  ;  (2)  Thor  (liis 
eldest  son,  the  god  of  thunder)  ;  (3)  Tyr 
(another  son,  tlie  god  of  wisdom)  ;  (4) 
Baldur  (another  son,  the  Scandinavian 
Apollo)  ;  (5)  Bragi  (the  god  of  elo- 
quence) ;  (6)  Vidar  (god  of  silence) ;  (7) 
Hodur  the  blind  (Baldur's  twin  brother) ; 
(S)  Hermod  (Odin's  son  and  messenger)  ; 
(9)  Hcenir  (divine  intelligence)  ;  (10) 
Odur  (husband  of  Freyja,  the  Scandin- 
avian Venus)  ;  (11)  Loki  (the  god  of 
mischief,  though  not  an  asa,  lived  in 
Asgard) ;  (12)  Vali  (Odin's  youngest 
son)  ;  another  of  Odin's  sons  was  Kvasir 
the  keen-sighted.  Then  there  Avere  the 
Vanir,  or  gods  of  air,  ocean,  and  water  ; 
the  gods  of  fire  ;  the  gods  of  the  Lower 
World  ;  and  the  Mysterious  Three,  who 
sat  on  three  tlirones  above  the  rainbow. 
Their  names  were  Har  (the  perfect),  the 
Like-perfect,  and  the  Third  person. 

iVivcs  of  the  JEsir :  Odin's  wife  was 
Frigga ;  Thor's  wife  was  Sif  (beauty) ; 


Baldur's  wife  was  Nanna  (daring)  ; 
Bragi's  wife  was  Iduna ;  Odur's  wife 
was  Freyja  (the  Scandinavian  Venus)  ; 
Loki's  wife  was  Siguna. 

The  JEsir  built  Asgard  themselves, 
but  each  god  had  his  own  private  man- 
sion. That  of  Odin  was  Gladsheim  ; 
but  his  wife  Frigga  had  also  her  private 
abode,  named  Fensalir ;  the  mansion  of 
Thor  was  Bilskirnir ;  that  of  Baldur 
was  Broadblink ;  that  of  Odur's  wife 
Avas  Folkbang ;  of  Vidar  was  Landvidi 
(wide  land) ;  the  private  abode  of  the 
goddesses  generally  was  Vingolf. 

The  refectory  or  banquet  hall  of  the 
^sir  was  called  Valhalla. 

Niord,  the  water-god,  was  not  one  of 
the  ^sir,  but  chief  of  the  Vanir  ;  his  son 
was  Frey ;  his  daughter,  Freyja  (the 
Scandinavian  Venus)  ;  his  wife  was 
Skadi ;  and  his  home,  Noatun. 

.^son's  Bath.  Sir  Thomas  Browne 
{llvliijio  Jlcdici,  p.  G7)  rationalises  this 
into  "  hair- dye."  The  reference  is  to 
Medea  renovating  iEson,  father  of 
Jason,  with  the  juices  of  a  concoction 
made  of  sundry  articles.  After  iEsou 
had  imbibed  these  juices,  Ovid  says  : — 

"  Barha  con^teiiiie, 
Canitic  posita,  nigrum  raimere,  colorem." 

Metaiiiwyhusci',  vii.  •.'ss. 

.^sonian  Hero  {The).  Jason,  who 
was  the  son  of  ^-Eson. 

^'sop's  Fables  were  compiled  by 
Bab'rios,  a  Greek,  who  lived  in  the  Alex- 
andrian age. 

^■Esop,  a  Phrygian  slave,  very  de- 
formed, and  the  writer  of  fables.  He 
was  contemporary  with  Pythag5ras, 
about  B.C.  .570. 

Almost  all  Ureek  and  Latin  faMes  are  asc  ilipd 
ti>  -Esop,  as  all  our  Psalms  are  ascrihed  to  I),n  id. 
Tlie  Latin  fables  of  Pliieilrus  are  supposed  to  be 
translations  of  .Esopian  faldes. 

JEsop  of  Arabid.  Lokman  (?).  Nasser, 
who  lived  in  the  fifth  century,  is  gener- 
ally called  tlie  "  Arabian  ^sop." 

JEaop  of  Eiujland.  John  Gay.  (168S- 
1732.) 

JExop  of  France.  Jean  de  la  Fontaine. 
(1621-169.5.) 

JEsop  of  Germmnf,  Gotthold  Ephruim 
Lessing.     (1729-1781.) 

u-Esop  of  India.  I3idpay  or  Pilpay. 
(About  three  centuries  before  the  Chris- 
tian era.) 

A'etites  (3  syl.).  Eagle  -  stones. 
(Greek,  aetus,  an  eagle.)  Hollow  stones 
composed  of  several  crusts,  one  within 
another.  Supposed  at  one  time  to  form 
part  of  an  eagle's  nest.  Pliny  mentions 
them.      Kirwan    applies   the    name    to 


^tolian  Hero 


20 


Agag 


clay-iioustones  having  a  globular  crust 
of  oxide  investing  an  ochreous  kernel. 
Mytliically,  they  are  supposed  to  have 
the  property  of  detecting  theft. 

.^tolian  Hero  (T/ic).  Diomede,  who 
was  king  of  ^toUa.     Orid. 

Aifable  means  "  one  easy  to  be  spoken 
to."     (Latin,  ad  fari,  to  sj)eak  to.) 

Affect'.  To  love,  to  desire.  (Latin, 
affcctu.) 

"Some  affoct  the  liKht,  sind  sonii-  the  simile." 
Ulair:  Urarc. 

I'Affection  aveugle  raison  (French). 
Cassius  says  to  Brutus,  ' '  A  friendly  eye 
could  never  see  such  faults."  "  L'esjjrit 
est  i^resque  toujours  la  dupe  du  coeur." 
(La  Rochefoucauld :  Md.vini/'s.) 

Again,  "  a  mother  thinks  all  her  geese 
are  swans." 

Italian :  A  ogni  grolla  paion  belli  i 
suoi  groUatini.  Ad  ogni  uccello,  suo 
nido  e  bello. 

French  :  A  chaquo  oiseau  son  nid 
parait  beau. 

Latin  :  Asinus  asino,  sus  sui,  jnilcher. 
Sua  cuique  res  est  carissima. 

AfiTront'  pro23erly  means  to  stand 
front  to  front.  In  savage  nations  oppos- 
ing armies  draw  up  front  to  front  befoi'e 
they  begin  hostilities,  and  by  grimaces, 
sounds,  words,  and  all  conceivable 
means,  try  to  provoke  and  terrify  their 
ris-d-vis.  When  this  "aifronthig"  is 
over,  the  adversaries  rush  against  each 
other,  and    the  fight  begins  in  earnest. 

Affront.     A  salute ;  a  coming  in  front 

of  another  to  salute. 

"Only,  sir,  fbis  I  must  caution  ^ou  of,  in  >(iur 
affront,  or  salute,  never  to  move  your  liat.''— 
Gn'in:  Ta  Quoqtie,  vii.  lij. 

Afraid.  He  tcho  trcinhlc.f  to  hear  a 
Iciif  fall  sliouhl  keep  out  of  the.  tcood. 
This  is  a  French  proverb  :  ''  Qui  a  peur 
de  feuilles,  ne  doit  aller  au  bois."  Our 
corresponding  English  jn'overb  is,  "  He 
who  fears  scars  shouldn't  go  the  wars." 
The  timid  should  not  voluntarily  exjjose 
themselves  to  danger. 

"  Little  boats  sbould  keeii  neir  slmre, 
Larger  ones  may  ventui'e  more." 

Africa.  Tcneo  to,  Africa  (I  take 
possession  of  thee,  O  Africa).  When 
Ca!sar  landed  at  AdrumCtum,  in  Africa, 
he  tripped  and  fell — a  bad  omen  ;  but, 
with  wonderful  presence  of  mind,  he 
pretended  that  he  had  done  so  inten- 
tionally, and  kissing  the  soil,  exclaimed, 
"Thus  do  I  take  possession  of  thee,  O 
Africa."  Told  also  of  Scipio.  {See  I)on 
Quixote,  Pt.  II.  Bk.  vi.  ch.  G.) 

Africa  semper  aliquid  novi  afert. 
"Africa  is  always  producing  some 
novelty."      A    Greek    jjvoverb    quoted 


(in  Latin)  by  Pliny,  in  allusion  to  the 
ancient  belief  that  Afrita  abounded  in 
strange  monsters. 

African  Sisters  {The).  The  Hes- 
jierides  (1  syl.)  wlio  lived  in  Africa. 
They  were  the  daughters  of  Atlas. 

Afriet,  or  "Afrit."  The  beau  ideal 
of  what  is  terrible  and  monstrous  in 
Arabian  suj)erstition.  A  sort  of  ghoul 
or  demon.  Solomon,  we  are  told,  once 
tamed  an  Afrit,  and  made  it  submissive 
to  his  will. 

Aft.     The  hinder  part  of  a  ship. 
Fore  and  Aft.     The  entire  length  (of 
a  sliii)),  from  stem  to  stern. 

After-cast.  A  throw  of  dice  after 
the  game  is  ended ;  anything  done  too 
late. 

"  Kvcr  be  playetb  an  after-east 
Of  all  tbat  be  sball  say  ur  do."—Goim: 

After-clap.  Beirarc  of  after-claps. 
An  after- clap  is  a  catastrophe  or  threat 
after  an  affair  is  supposed  to  be  over. 
It  is  very  common  in  thunderstorms  to 
hear  a  "clap"  after  the  rain  subsides, 
and  the  clouds  break. 

"  Wbat  plaguy  niisebief  ami  mishap.? 
Do  dug  bini  still  with  afler-elaps." 

Bidlti-:  Ilml.Oru.t,  Pt.  i.  3. 

After  Meat,  Mustard.  In  Latin, 
"Post  bellum,  auxilium."  We  have 
also,  "  After  death,  the  doctor,"  which 
is  the  German,  "  Wann  der  krauke  ist 
todt,  so  kommt  der  arztnei "  (when  the 
patient's  dead,  comes  the  physic).  To 
the  same  effect  is  "  When  tlie  steed  is 
stolen,  lock  the  stable  door."  Meaning, 
doing  a  thing,  or  oti'ering  service  when 
it  is  too  late,  or  when  there  is  no  longer 
need  thereof. 

After  us,  the  Deluge.  "  I  care  not 
what  liappens  when  1  am  dead  and 
gone."  So  said  Mdme.  de  Pompadour, 
the  mistress  of  Louis  XV.  (171^2-1764). 
Metternich,  the  Austrian  statesman 
(1773-18")9),  is  credited  with  the  same; 
but  probably  he  simply  quoted  the  words 
of  the  French  marchioness. 

Aft-meal.  An  extra  meal ;  a  meal 
taken  after  and  in  addition  to  the  ordin- 
ary meals. 

"  At  aft-nieals  who  sball  pay  for  the  wine  ?" 

Thi/nne:  Debute. 

A'gag,  in  Drj-den's  satire  of  Absa- 
lom and  Aehif'ophel,  is  meant  for  Sir 
Edmoudbiiry  Godfrey,  the  magistrate 
before  whom  Titus  Gates  made  his  de- 
claration, and  was  afterwards  found 
barbarously  murdered  in   a   tlitch  near 


Agamarshana 


21 


Agdistes 


Primrose    Hill.      Agag  was  hewed  to 
pieces  by  Samuel  (1  Sam.  xv.). 

"And  Corah  (.Titus   Gates)  might   for   Agag's 
iim  iler  call 
In  torins  as  coarse  as  Samuel  used  to  Saul." 
1.  C7.i-G. 

Agamarshana.  A  passage  of  the 
Veda,  tlic  reputitiou  of  which  will  purify 
the  soul  like  absolution  after  confession. 

Agamemnon.  King  of  Argos,  in 
Greece,  and  commander-in-chief  of  the 
allied  Greeks  who  went  to  the  siege  of 
Troy.  The  fleet  being  delayed  by  ad- 
verse winds  at  Aulis,  Agamemnon  sacri- 
ficed his  daughter  Iph'igeni'a  to  Diana, 
and  the  winds  became  at  once  favourable. 
— Hoii/cr^n  Il'tad. 

"Till  Aganio.iinnn's  daughter's  Mood 
Apiieascd  the  gods  that  them  withstood." 

Kurlof  Hurrcy. 

His  brother  was  Jlenelaos. 

Hi?,  daugtiters  were  Iphigeuia,  Elec'.ra,  Tphian- 
assa,  and  t'hrysotliemis  {Supliocles). 

He  was  grdndson  of  I'elops. 

He  was  killcil  in  a  Imth  by  his  wife  Clytcni- 
nestra.  after  his  return  from  Troy. 

His  son  was  Oresie.s.who  slew  his  mother  for 
muriieriug  his  father,  and  was  called  Agameni- 
nonide;. 

His  wife  was  Clytemnestra,  who  lived  in  adult- 
ery with  Egistheus.  At  Troy  he  fell  in  love  with 
Cassandra,  a  daughter  of  King  Piiam. 

J'i.re IT  fortes  anU  Agamcnuiona  ("there 
are  hills  bej-ond  Pentland,  and  fields 
beyond  Forth"),  i.e.,  we  arc  not  to 
su2ij)0se  that  our  own  age  or  locality 
monopolises  all  that  is  good. — Ilor.  Od. 
iv.  9,  "2.).  We  might  add,  et  pout  A(ja- 
meiiuiona  rivent. 

"  Gre  It  men  there  lived  ere  Agamemnon  came, 
And  after  him  will  others  risj  tofan.e."— £.  C.  i?. 

Aganice  (4  syl.),  or  Aglaonice,  the 
Thessalian,  being  able  to  calculate 
eclipses,  she  pretended  to  have  the  moon 
under  her  command,  and  to  be  able 
when  she  chose  to  draw  it  from  heaven. 
Her  secret  being  found  out,  her  vamiting 
became  a  laughing-stock,  and  gave  birth 
to  the  Greek  proverb  cast  at  braggarts, 
"  Yes,  as  the  Moon  obeys  Aga.nici;." 

Aganippe  (1  syl.).  A  fountain  of 
Boeotia  at  the  foot  of  Mount  Helicon, 
dedicated  to  the  Muses,  because  it  had 
the  vu'tue  of  imparting  poetic  inspira- 
tion. From  this  fountain  the  Muses  are 
called  Aganippedes  (o  syl.)  or  Agauip- 
pides  (5  syl.). 

Ag'ape  (3  syl.).  A  love-feast.  The 
early  Christians  held  a  love-feast  before 
or  after  communion,  when  contributions 
were  made  for  the  poor.  These  feasts 
became  a  scandal,  and  were  condemned 
at  the  Council  of  Carthage,  397.  (Greek, 
(Kjdpe,  love.) 

Agapem'one  (o  syl.).  A  somewhat 
disreputable    association    of    men    and 


women  living  promiscuously  on  a  com- 
mon fund,  which  existed  for  a  time  at 
Charlynch,  near  Bridgewater,  in  Somer- 
setshire.    (Greek,  cir/ape,  love.) 

Agape  tse.  Women  under  vows  of 
virginity,  who  undertook  to  attend  the 
monks.     (The  word  is  Greek,  and  means 

hrloved.) 

Ag'ate  (2syl.).  So  called,  says  Pliny 
(xxxvii.  10),  from  Acha'tes  or  Gaga'tes, 
a  river  in  Sicily,  near  which  it  is  found 
in  abundance. 

"  These,  these  are  they,  if  we  consider  well, 
That  saiihirs  and  the  diiniouds  doe  excel  1, 
The   iiearle,  the   enierauld,  and  the  turkesse 

Men, 
The  sanguine  corrall,  amber's  golden  hiew, 
The  chrfstall,  jacinth,  achate,  ruby  red." 

Taylor:  The  Waterspout iXWO). 

Agate  is  sujjposed  to  render  a  person 
invisible,  and  to  turn  the  sword  of  foes 
against  themselves. 

Agate.  A  very  diminutive  jierson. 
Shakespeare  speaks  of  Queen  Mab  as  no 
bigger  than  an  agate-stone  ou  the  fore- 
finger of  an  alderman. 

"  1  was  never  manned  with  an  agate  till  now." 
!<haki:spcare:  3  Ucii.  IV.  i.  -J. 

Agatha.  Daughter  of  Cuno,  the 
ranger,  in  love  with  Max,  to  whom  she 
is  to  be  married,  provided  he  caiTies  off 
the  prize  in  the  annual  trial-shot.  She 
is  in  danger  of  being  shot  by  Max  un- 
wittingly, but  is  rescued  by  a  hermit, 
and  becomes  the  bride  of  the  young 
huntsman. —  TT'cber's  Opera  of  Der 
Freischiitz. 

Agatha  i^St.).  Represented  in  Chris- 
tian art  with  a  pair  of  shears,  and 
holding  in  her  hand  a  salver,  ou  which 
her  breasts  are  placed.  The  reference 
is  to  her  martyrdom,  when  her  breasts 
were  cut  off  by  a  pair  of  shears. 

Agave  (3  syl.)  or  "American  aloe," 
from  the  Greek,  ayauoK,  admirable. 
The  Mexicans  plant  fences  of  Agave 
round  their  wigwams,  as  a  defence 
against  wild  beasts.  The  Mahometans 
of  Egypt  regard  it  a.s  a  chtirm  and 
religious  symbol ;  and  jjilgrims  to  Mecca 
indicate  their  exploit  by  hanging  over 
the  door  of  their  dwelling  a  leaf  of 
Agave,  which  has  the  further  charm  of 
warding  off  evil  spirits.  The  Jews  in 
Cairo  attribute  a  similar  virtue  to  the 
plant,  every  part  of  which  is  utiUsed. 

Agdistes  {self-iiiduh/oice).  The  god 
who  kept  the  porch  of  the  "  Bower  of 
Bliss."  He  united  in  his  own  person  the 
two  sexes,  and  sprang  from  the  stone 
Agdus,  parts  of  which  were  taken  by 
Deucalion  and  Pyrrha  to  cast  over  their 


Ag3  as  accords 


Agist 


shoulders,  after  the  flood,  for  re-peopling 
the  world.  {Spenser  :  Faerie  Qncciie, 
book  ii.  12.)     Ag-dis'-tes  in  3  syl. 

Age  as  accords  {To).  To  do  what 
is  fit  and  right  (Scotch  law  term).  Here 
"Age  "  is  from  the  Latin  ay^re,  to  do. 

"  To  set  iibniu  the  matter  in  !i  reaular  nianiirr, 
or,  as  he  termed  it  .  .  .  to 'ajre  asaocovils.' "— 
bir  W.  Hcvtl:  UedjiaiuitUt,  cbap.  •_'. 

Age  of  Animals.  An  old  Celtic 
rliymo,  put  into  modern  English,  says  : — 

"Tlirirp  llie  ase  of  a  dof;  is  that  of  a  horse  ; 
Tlirice  the  age  of  a  horse  is  that  of  a  luaii  ; 
Thrice  tlie  aire  of  a  man  is  t  hat  of  a  ileir  ; 
Thrice  the  aye  of  a  deer  is  tliat  of  an  eayle." 

Age  ofWomen  (2%f).  Though  many 
women  are  mentioned  in  the  Bible,  tlie 
age  of  only  one  (Sarah,  Abraham's  wife) 
is  recorded,  and  that  to  show  at  her 
advanced  age  she  would  become  the 
mother  of  Isaac. 

"Klizaheth,  tlie  mother  of  tlie  Baiitist,"  we 
a  e  told  liy  8t.  Luke,  "  was  well-striokcn  in  age." 

Age  of  the  Bishops  {T/ie).  The 
ninth  century.    {Ilnllaiii :  Middle  Aijcs.) 

Age  of  the  Popes  {The).  The 
twelfth  century.  {Ifallain:  31iddleAgcs.) 

Age  hoc.  "Attend  to  this."  In 
sacrifice  the  Koman  crier  perpetually 
repeated  these  words  to  arouse  attention. 
In  the  "Common  Prayer  Book"  the 
attention  of  the  congregation  is  fre- 
quently aroused  by  the  exhortation, 
"  Let  us  pray,"  though  nearly  the  whole 
service  is  that  of  prayer. 

Ages.  Varit)  {Frogme)ils,  p.  219, 
Scaliger's  edition,  1G23)  recognises  three 
ages : — • 

(1)  From  the  beginning  of  mankind 
to  the  Deluge,  a  time  wholly  unknown. 

(2)  From  the  Deluge  to  the  First 
Olympiad,  called  the  mythical  period. 

(3)  From  the  first  Olympiad  to  the 
present  time,  called  the  historic  period. 

Titian  symbolised  the  three  ages  of 
man  thus :  — 

(1)  An  infant  in  a  cradle. 

(2)  A  shepherd  playing  a  flute. 

(3)  An  old  man  meditating  on  two 
skulls. 

According  to  Lucre'tius  also,  there  are 
three  ages,  distinguished  by  the  materials 
employed  in  implements  (v.  1282),  viz. : 

(1)  Tlic  cifjc  of  stone,  when  celts  or  im- 
plements of  stone  were  emidoyed. 

(2)  Tlie  ar/e  of  bronze,  when  im^dements 
were  made  of  copper  or  Ijrass. 

(3)  'The  age  of  Iron,  when  implements 
were  made  of  iron,  as  at  present, 


Hesiod  names  flve  ages,  viz. : — 

The  Goldeu  or  i>atriarchal,  under  the  care  of 
Saturn. 

The  .Silver  or  vohiptuous,  under  the  care  of 
Jupiter. 

The  Brazen  or  warlike,  under  the  care  of 
Neptune. 

The  Heroic  or  renaissant,  under  the  care  of 
Mars. 

The  Iron  or  present,  under  the  care  of  Pluto. 

*i  The  present  is  sometimes  called 
the  wire  age,  from  its  telegraphs,  by 
means  of  which  well-nigli  the  whole 
earth  is  in  intercommunication. 

Fichte  names  five  ages  also  :  the  ante- 
diluviaii,  post-diluvian,  Christian,  Satanic, 
and  milleunian. 

Ag'elas'ta.  The  stone  on  which 
Ce're.s  rested  when  worn  down  by  fatigue 
in  searching  for  her  daughter.  (Greek, 
joyless. ) 

Agenor  ides  (5  syl.).  Cadmos,  who 
was  the  son  of  Agenor. 

Agent.  Ts  man  a  free  ayent  ?  This 
is  a  question  of  theology,  which  has  long 
been  mooted.  The  point  is  this :  If 
God  fore-ordains  all  our  actions,  they 
must  take  place  as  he  fore-ordains  them, 
and  man  acts  as  a  watch  or  clock  ;  but 
if,  on  the  other  hand,  man  is  responsible 
for  his  actions,  he  must  be  free  to  act  as 
his  inclination  leads  him.  Those  who 
hold  the  former  view  are  called  neeessi  ia- 
rlans ;  thoie  who  hold  the  latter,  liberta- 
rians. 

Agglutinate      Languages.        The 

Tura'nian  family  of  languages  are  so 
called  because  every  syllable  is  a  word, 
and  these  are  ylned  together  to  form 
other  words,  anil  mtty  be  unglued  so  as 
to  letive  the  roots  distinct,  as  "inkstand." 

Aghast'.     Frightened,  as  by  a  ghost ; 
rom  Anglo-Saxon  ydst,  a  gliost. 

Agi'o.  The  jiercentage  of  charge 
made  for  the  exchange  of  paper  money 
into  cash.     (Italian). 

'Tlie  protit  is  called  by  the  Italians  aggio."— 

.Si-d  licit. 

Agis.  King  of  Sparta,  who  tried  to 
deliver  Greece  from  the  Macedonian 
yoke,  and  was  slain  in  the  attempt. 

"  To  save  a  rotten  state,  Agis,  who  saw 
E'en  Sparta's  self  to  servile  avarice  sink." 

Thomson:  Winter,  4.ss-9. 

Agist'.  To  take  the  cattle  of  another 
to  graze  at  a  certain  sum.  The  feeding 
of  these  beasts  is  called  ayistnieut.  The 
words  are  from  the  Norman  ayiser  (to 
be  levant  and  couchant,  rise  up  and  lie 
down),  because,  says  Coke,  beasts  are 
levant  and  couchant  whilst  they  are  ou 
the  land. 


fr 


Agla 


23 


i^grimony 


Agla.  A  cabalistic  uame  of  God, 
formed  from  the  iuitial  letters  of  Attuli, 
Gibbor,  Leliolam,  Adoirai  {Thou  arl 
strong  for  ever,   O  Lord!).      [Siv  Nox- 

AEICA.) 

Aglaos.  The  jjoorest  man  iu  Arcadia,, 
pronounced  by  Apollo  to  be  far  ha,j)i)ier 
than  Gyges,  because  he  was  "  contented 
with  his  lot." 

"  Poor  find  content  is  rich  ami  licli  encmf-'li  ; 
But  riches  enilless  aieas  iiuoias  winter 
To  him  who  ever  feai's  be  sliall  lie  iio'ir." 

Shakespeore :  Othellu  iii.  3. 

Agnes.  S/ic  is  an  Agnes  (elle  fait 
VAgnea) — i.e.,  she  is  a  sort  of  female 
"  Verdant  Greeu,"  who  is  so  unsophistic- 
ated that  she  does  not  even  know  what 
love  means.  It  is  a  character  in  Mo- 
liere's  V Ecolc  dcs  Fcnimes. 

Agnes  {St.)  is  represented  by  Dom- 
enichiuo  as  kneeling  on  a  pile  of  fagots, 
the  tireextnguished,  and  the  executioner 
about  to  slay  her  with  the  sword.  The 
introduction  of  a  lamb  {aginis)  is  a 
modern  innovation,  and  play  on  the 
name.  St.  Agnes  is  the  patron  of  young 
virgins. 

"  St.  Agnes  was  first  tied  to  a  stake, 
but  the  lire  of  the  stakes  went  out ; 
whereupon  Aspasius,  set  to  watch  the 
martyrdom,  drew  his  sword,  aud  cut  off 
her  head. ' ' 

Agnes'Day  {St.),  Hist  January.  Upon 
St.  Agnes'  night,  you  take  a  row  of  pins, 
aud  23ull  out  every  one,  one  after  another. 
Saying  a  jiater-noster,  stick  a  ])in  in 
your  sleeve,  and  you  will  dream  of  him 
or  her  you  shall  marry. — ^Ixbrcg  :  Mia- 
ccllaiiy,  1^.  loG. 

Agnoites  (3  syl.).  Ag' -no-it cs,  or 
Ag-no'-i-tse  (4  syl.). 

( 1 )  Certain  heretics  in  the  fourth 
century  who  said  "God  did  not  know 
everything." 

(2)  Another  sect,  iu  the  sixth  century, 
who  maintained  that  Christ  "  did  not 
know  the  time  of  the  day  of  judgment." 
(Greek,  a,  not ;  yiyvi^aKbi,  to  know.) 

Agnostic  {A)i).  A  term  invented  by 
Prof.  Huxley  in  1885  to  indicate  the 
mental  attitude  of  those  who  withhold 
their  assent  to  whatever  is  incapable  of 
proof,  such  as  the  absolute.  In  regard 
to  miracles  and  revelation,  agnostics 
neither  dogmatically  accept  nor  reject 
such  matters,  but  simply  say  Agiiosco—1 
do  not  know — they  are  not  capable  of 
proof. 

Agnus-castus.  A  slnub  of  the  Vitex 
tribe,  called  agnos  (chaste)  by  the 
Greeks,  because  the  Atheniau  la,dies,  at 


the  feast  of  Ceres,  used  to  strew  their 
couches  with  vitex  leaves,  as  a  palladium 
of  chastity.  The  monks,  mirtaking 
agiwx  (chaste)  for  agnns  (a  lamb),  but 
knowing  the  use  made  of  the  plant, 
added  castas  to  explain  its  character, 
making  it  chaste-lamb.  (For  another 
similar  blunder,  .see  I.H.S.) 

Agnus  Dei.  A  cake  of  wax  or 
dough  stanijicd  with  the  figure  of  a 
lamb  supporting  the  banner  of  the  Cross, 
and  distributed  by  the  Pope  on  the 
Sunday  after  Easter  as  an  amulet.  Our 
Lord  is  called  Agnus  Lei  (the  Lamb  of 
(iod).  There  is  also  a  prayer  so  called, 
becau'je  it  begins  with  the  words,  Agnus 
Jk'i,  qui  tollis  pccca'ta  inundi  (O  Lamb  of 
God,  that  takest  away  the  sins  of  the 
world) . 

Agog'.  Ih'  is  all  agog,  in  nei'vous 
anxiety  ;  on  the  qui  rirc,  like  a  horse  in 
clover.  (French,  a  gogo,  or  rivre  a  gogo, 
to  live  in  clover.) 

Agonis'tes  (4  svl.).  Samson  Agonistes 
(the  title  of  Mdton's  drama)  means 
Samson  wrestling  with  adversity — Sam- 
son combating  with  trouble.  (Greek, 
agoni'zoniai,  to  combat,  to  struggle.) 

Agonis'tics.  A  branch  of  the  Dona- 
tists  of  Africa  who  roamed  from  town  to 
town  affirming  they  were  ministers  of 
justice.  The  Greek  agon  (an  assembly) 
^z.  the  Latin  nunduuc,  days  when  the 
law-courts  were  opened,  that  country 
people  might  go  and  get  their  law -suits 
settled. 

Agony  properly  means  contention  iu 
the  athletic  games  ;  aiid  to  agonise  is  the 
act  of  contending.  (Greek,  agon^  a  game 
of  contest,  as  well  as  a  "place  of 
assembly  "). 

Agony,  meaning  "great  pain,"  is  the 
wrestle  with  pain  or  struggle  with  suffer- 
ing. 

Agony  Column  of  a  newspaper.  A 
colunui  containing  advertisements  of 
missing  relatives  and  friends  ;  indicating 
great  distress  of  mind  in  the  advertiser. 

Agrarian  Law,  from  the  Latin  ager 
(land),  is  a  law  for  making  land  the 
common  property  of  a  nation,  and  not 
the  particular  property  of  individuals. 
In  a  modified  fonn,  it  means  a  re- 
distribution of  land,  giving  to  each  citizen 
a  i)ortion. 

Agrimony.  The  older  spelling  was 
Argemony,  and  Pliny  ctAls  it  argeinonia, 
from  the  Greek  argemos,  a  white  speck 
on  the  eye,  which  this  plant  was  supposed 
to  cure, 


Ague 


21 


Air  one's  opinions 


Ague  {A  cure  for).     (See  Homer.) 

Ague-cheek.  Sir  Andrew  Ar/uc- 
ehirl,\  a  straiglit-liaired  couutry  squire, 
stupid  cveu  to  silliuess,  self- conceited, 
living  to  eat,  aud  wholly  unacquainted 
with  the  world  of  fashion.  The  character 
is  in  Shakespeare's  'Tarlfth  Niglit. 

A'gur's  Wish  (Prov.  xxx.  8).  "  Give 
me  neither  riches  nor  jjoverty." 

Ahasue  rus,  or  Ahashverosh.  A  title 
common  to  several  Persian  kings.  The 
three  mentioned  in  the  Bible  are  sup- 
posed to  be  Cyaxares  (Dau.  xi.  1)  ; 
Xerxes  (Esther)  ;  aud  Cambyses  (Ezra 
iv.  6). 

An  nlaliiister  v;isp  fimiiil  at  Halir:inin>sus  t-'ive^ 
four  n'lidcriiiKScif  tlip  ii:i,iiie  Xr! m^s,  \  iz..  I'crsian, 
Klisliiii/:ir.-lia;  At^swi-.n).  Klii.-.ilinrs,ili,i  :  K.  -i  pti.-ui, 
J<li!<h!iinsli(i :  and  tlic  (4rfek,  .Xiuis;  ilic  Sans- 
kfit  runt  Kshl  niL'aus  "to  vulo,''  Kt^liatlira  (.Zend 
KaatliKi),  a  king. 

Ahead.  Tke  tciiuPs ahcail — i.e.,  blows 
in  the  direction  towards  which  the  shijj's 
head  points ;  in  front.  If  the  wind 
blows  in  tlie  opposite  direction  ('.<"., 
towards  the  stern)  it  is  said  to  be  astern. 
When  one  ship  is  ahead  of  another,  it  is 
Zf^/'orf  it,  or  further  advanced.  "  Aliead 
of  his  class,"  means  at  the  head.  Ahead 
in  a  race,  means  before  the  rest  of  the 
runners. 

To  (10  nhcnd  is  to  go  on  without  hesi- 
tation, as  a  ship  runs  ahead  of  anotlier. 

Ahith'ophel,  or  Achifophd.  A 
treacherous  friend  and  adviser.  Ahitho- 
phel  was  David's  counsellor,  but  joined 
Alisalom  in  revolt,  aud  advised  him 
"  like  tlie  oracle  of  God"  ("i  Sam.  xvi. 
20-'2;}).  In  Dryden's  political  satire, 
Achitophel  stands  for  the  Earl  of  Shaftes- 
burj^     (.SV'i?  AciiiTornEL.) 

Ahmed  (Prince).  Noted  for  the  tent 
given  him  liy  the  fairy  Pari-bau'ou,  whicli 
would  cover  a  whole  army,  but  might  bo 
carried  in  one's  pocket ;  and  for  the 
apple  of  Samarcand',  which  would  cure 
all  diseases. — Arabian  Niylitx,  Priucc 
Ahmed,  cte. 

This  tent  coincides  in  a  marvellous 
manner  with  the  Norse  ship  called  Skid- 
bladnir  {q.r.).    {See  Solomon's  Caepet.) 

Aholibah  (Ezek.  xxiii.  4,  11,  etc.). 
The  personification  of  prostitution.  Used 
by  the  prophet  to  signify  religious  adult- 
ery or  harlotry.     {See  Harlot.) 

"  Tlie  great  didii-ult.v  in  exposing  the  immoral- 
ities of  this  Alioliliah  is  tliat  lier  [acts]  are  so 
revolting."— Prt/^fj-s  oh  the  Social  Evil,  1885. 

Aholiba'mah.  A  granddaughter  of 
Cain,  loved  by  the  seraph  Samia'sa.  She 
is  a  proud,  amlutious,  queen-like  beauty, 
a  female  typo  of  Cain.     When  the  flood 


came,  her  angel-lover  carried  her  under 
his  wings  to  some  other  planet. — Bijro)i  : 
Heaven  and  Uarfh. 

Ah'riman,  or  A/iriui'anes.  The  prin- 
ciple or  angel  of  darkness  and  evil  in  the 
Magian  system.     {See  Ormusd.) 

"  1  recognise  tlie  evil  spirit,  sir,  and  do  linnour 
to  Abrinianes  in  this  youug  n:!in."—Tliaclicroii. 

Aide  toi  et  le  Ciel  t'aidera  {God 
win  liclp  those  lelio  help  thvni^clvex).  The 
party-motto  of  a  political  society  of 
France,  established  in  1824.  The  object 
of  the  society  was,  by  agitation  and  the 
press,  to  induce  the  middle  classes  to 
resist  the  Government.  Guizot  was  at 
one  time  its  president,  and  Le  Globe  and 
Le  National  its  organs.  This  society, 
which  doubtless  aided  in  bringing  about 
the  Revolution  of  1830,  was  dissolved  in 
1832. 

Ai'grette  (2  syl.).  A  lady's  head- 
dress, consisting  of  feathers  or  flowers. 
The  French  call  the  down  of  thistles  and 
dandelions,  as  well  as  the  tuft  of  birds, 
aiyrette. 

Aim.  I'y  (/ire  aim,  to  stand  aloof. 
A  term  in  archery,  meaning  to  stand 
within  a  convenient  distance  from  the 
butts,  to  f/ivc  the  archers  infonnation 
how  ncai  their  arrows  fall  to  the  mark 
aimed  at. 

"But,  gentle  people,  give  nieaini  awhile, 
For  nature  puts  me  to  a  heavy  task  ; 
Stand  all  aloof." 

Shakespeare :  Tittis  Aiidronicns,  v. ."). 

To  ertj  aim.  To  applaud,  encourage. 
In  archery  it  was  customary  to  appoint 
certain  persons  to  cry  aiui,  for  the  sake 
of  encouraging  those  who  were  about  to 
shoot. 

"  All  my  nei.ghlioirs  shall  cry  aim." 
Sliakc.fpenre  :  Mirnj  Wivts  of  Windsor,  iii.  2. 

Aim -crier.  An  abettor,  one  who 
encourages.  In  archery,  the  ijerson  em- 
ployed ta  "  cry  aim."     {See  above.) 

"  Thcni  smiliirg  aim-crier  at  princes'  fall." 

Jiiiijlish  Arcadia. 

Air,  an  element-,  Anaxag'oras  held 
air  to  be  the  primary  form  of  matter. 

Aristotle  gives  Fire,  Air,  Earth,  and 
Water  as  the  four  elements. 

Air,  a  manner,  as  "  the  air  of  the 
court,"  the  " air  of  gentility  ;  "  "a  good 
air"  (manner,  deportment)  means  the 
pervading  habit. 

Air,  in  musie,  is  that  melody  which 
predominates  and  gives  its  chtiracter  to 
tlie  piece. 

Air  one's  opinions  {7o).  To  state 
oi)inions   without    having    fii-mly  based 


Air-brained 


25 


Aladdin's  Windo-w 


them  oil  proper  datca.  To  let  them  fly 
loose,  Uke  a  caged  bird. 

To  irntllatc  an  iiiunidn  ineiins  to  suggest  fortlie 
pui'iHise  of  Laviiiir  it  duly  tested.  A  conceited 
man  airs  liis  opinions,  a  discreet  one  ri-iitilaii's 
tlieni,  IIS  corn  wlieu  it  is  wiuuowed,  and  the  cliall! 
is  l)lo\vnolT. 

Air-brained.  Giddy,  heedless.  This 
■word  is  now  generally  spelt  "  hare- 
brained ;  "  but,  by  ancient  authors,  /lair- 
hra'nwd.  In  C.  Thomson's  Antubio- 
(jraphij  it  is  spelt  "Air-brained,"  which 
seems  plausible. 

Air-line  signifies  (in  the  United 
States)  tlie  most  direct  and  shortest 
possible  route  between  two  given  places, 
as  the  Eastern  and  Western  Air- line 
Kail  way. 

Air-sMp  {An).    A  balloon. 

"Presently  a  nortli-eas:erly  curreut  of  wind 
struck  the  air-sliip,  and  it  began  to  move  wilh 
great  velocitv  upon  a  horizontal  line."  — ,l/(ix 
AiUhr:  The  CaiitahCs  MS. 

Air-throne.  Odin's  throne  in  Glads- 
heim.     His  palace  was  in  Asgard. 

Airs.  To  gire  oneself  mif/Jit>j  airs  : 
to  assume,  in  manner,  appearance,  and 
tone,  a  superiority  to  which  you  have 
no  claim.  The  same  as  ^4  »',  manner  (q.r.). 
The  plural  is  essential  in  this  case  to  take  it  out 
of  the  category  of  mere  eccentricity,  or  to  dis- 
tinguish it  from  "air"  in  the  sense  of  deport- 
uuMU,  as  "  he  had  a  fine,  manly  air,"  "  his  air  was 
tint  of  a  gentleman."  Air,  in  the  singular,  hciu',' 
g  ■nerally  complimentary,  liut  "airs"  in  ihe  plural 
ahvavs  convevinv'  i-cusure.  Ill  Italian,  we  liml 
the  phrase, , Si, (.M/t-;;  line. 

Airapadam.  The  white  elephant, 
one  of  the  eight  which,  according  to 
Indian  mythology,  sustain  the  earth. 

Aisle  (pronounce  i/c).  The  north  and 
south  wings  of  a  church.  Latin,  a/a 
(a.x;illa,  ascella),  through  the  French,  aile, 
a  wing.  In  German  the  nave  of  a 
church  is  schijf,  and  the  aisle  fliigcl  (a 
wing).  In  some  church  documents  the 
aisles  are  called  allci/s  (walks),  and 
hence  the  nave  is  still  sometimes  called 
the  "middle  ai.sle  "  or  alley.  The  choir 
of  Lincoln  Cathedral  used  to  be  called 
the  "  Chanters'  alley  ;  "  and  Olden  tells 
us  that  when  he  came  to  be  church- 
warden, in  1638,  he  made  the  Puritans 
"  come  up  the  middle  alley  on  their 
knees  to  the  raile." 

Aitch-bone  of  beef.  Con-uption  of 
"  Xaitch-bone,"  i.e.  the  hamich-bone 
(Latin,  nates,  a  haimch  or  buttock). 

similarly,  "an  apmu"  is  a  corruption  of  a 
iKiliiKrou  ;  "an  luMcr  "  is  a  CDrruplion  of  a  naililrr 
(Old  fZug.,  iiiTii'lri).  In  other  words,  we  have 
leverscd  the  order  ;  thus  "a  newt"  is  ir/i  art;  "a 
nag  "  is  ail  iig  ^Danish).    Latin,  cqlniis],  a  h(U'so. 

Ajax,  i/ie  Greater.  King  of  Sal'amis, 
a  mnn  of  giant  stature,  daring,  and  self- 
confident.      Generally    called   Tel'amon 


Ajax,  because  he  was  the  son  of  Tel'a- 
mon. When  the  armour  of  Hector  was 
awarded  to  Ulysses  instead  of  to  himself, 
he  turned  mad  from  vexation  and  stabbed 
himself. — Homer'' s  Iliad,  and  later  poets. 

Ajax,  the  Less.  Son  of  Oileus  (3  syl.), 
King  of  Locris,  in  Greece.  The  night  Troy 
was  taken,  he  offered  violence  to  Cas- 
sandra, the  prophetic  daugliter  of  Priam  ; 
in  consequence  of  whicli  his  ship  was 
driven  on  a  rock,  and  he  perished  at  sea. 
— Homer's  Iliad,  and  later  poets. 

"  Il'sa  (.luno),  Jovis  rapidum  jaculata  e  nubihus 
igneui, 
Disjecitiiue  rates,  e\  ertitque  a^cjuora  ventis  ; 
Ilium   (,\jax)   expirauteni   trausli.\o    pectore 

Hauimas 
Turliine  corriiuut,  scopuhxiue  inflxit  acuto." 
Virijil :  ^Encid,  i.  42,  etc. 

Akbar.  An  Arabic  word,  meaning 
"Very  Great."  Akbar-Khan,  the  "very 
great  Khan,"  is  applied  especially  to  the 
Khan  of  Hindustan  who  reigned  l.'iJG- 
160.5. 

Ak'uan,  the  giant  whom  Kustan 
slew.     (Persian  m>jtIiolo(jij.) 

Ak'uman.  The  most  malevolent  of 
all  the  Persian  gods. 

Alabama,  U.  S.  America.  The  name 
of  tin  Iiulian  tribe  of  the  Mississiiipi 
Valley,  meaning  "  here  we  rest." 

Alabaster.  A  stone  of  great  purity 
and  whiteness,  used  for  ornaments.  So 
called  from  "  Alabastron, "  in  Upper 
Egypt,  where  it  abounds. 

Alad'din,  in  the  Arabian  Nights'' 
Tales,  obtains  a  magic  lamp,  and  has  a 
splendid  palace  built  by  the  genius  of  the 
lamp.  He  marries  the  daughter  of  the 
sultan  of  China,  loses  his  lamp,  and  his 
palace  is  transported  to  Africa.  Sir 
Walter  Scott  says,  somewhat  incor- 
rectly :  - 

"Vanished  into  air  like  tlii'  lalace  of  Alad'iin." 

V  The  palace  did  not  vanish  into  air, 
but  was  transported  to  another  i^lace. 

Aladdin's  Lamp.  The  source  oi 
wealth  and  good  fortune.  After  Aladdin 
came  to  his  wealth  and  was  married,  he 
suffered  his  lamp  to  hang  up  and  gel 
rusty. 

"It  was  impossible  that  a  family,  ludding  a 
document  whicli  gave  them  access  to  the  most 
powerful  noblemen  in  Scotland,  should  have 
suffered  it  to  remain  unemployed,  like  Aladdin's 
rusty  lamii."— .S'tHior. 

Aladdin's  Ring,  given  him  by  the 
African  magician,  was  a  "  preservative 
against  every  evil." — Arabian  Nights: 
Aladdin  and  the  IVuuderful  Lamp. 

Aladdin's  Window.  To  finish  Alad- 
din's  Window — i.e.    to  attempt  to  com- 


Aladine 


26 


Albatross 


plete  something  begun  by  a  great  genius, 
but  left  imperfect.  The  genius  of  the 
lamji  built  a  imlace  with  twenty-four 
windows,  all  but  one  being  set  in  frames 
of  jjrecious  stones ;  the  last  was  left  for 
the  sultan  to  finish  ;  but  after  exhausting 
his  treasures,  the  sultan  was  obliged  to 
abandon  the  task  as  hopeless. 

Tait's  second  part  of  Dryden's  Abmloiii. 
and  Avltitophd  is  an  Aladdin's  TFiiiduu-. 

Al  adine  (3  syl.) .  The  sagacious  but 
cruel  old  king  of  Jerusalem  in  Tassn's 
Jcniaalcin  Delivered,  book  xx.  This 
is  a  fictitious  character,  inasmuch  as  the 
Holy  Land  was  at  the  time  under  the 
dominion  of  the  caliph  of  Egyi)t.  Alad- 
ine was  slain  by  Raymond. 

Alako.  Son  of  Baro-De'vel,  the 
great  god  of  the  gipsies.  The  gipsies 
say  that  he  will  ultimately  restore  them 
toAssaj  in  Assyria,  their  native  country. 
The  image  of  Alako  has  a  pen  in  his  left 
hand  and  a  sword  in  his  right. 

Alans.  Large  dogs,  of  various  species, 
used  for  hunting  deer. 

".Skill-  of  nniniMls  slain  in  tlip  i-lias"  wpit 
stretched  (in  the  i--niuiiil  .  .  .  aii.l  iipmi  a  lienii 
iif  tliPw  lav  .-i  ,ihi,if.  as  they  were  .allnl.  i.i-..  «(ilf 
p  ■eyiuiiuuls  "f  tlie  largest  size."— .sic  ir..Sc»H:  Tlic 
Talism.iii,  chap.  vi. 

Alar'con.  King  of  Barca,  who  joined 
the  armament  of  Egypt  against  the 
Crusaders.  His  men  were^  only  half 
armed. — Jenisalcin  JJeli I'ered. 

Alarm.  An  outcry  made  to  give 
notice  of  danger.  (ItaHan,  all'  anne, 
"to  arms;"  French,  alarme.) 

Alarum  Bell.  In  fevidal  times  a 
'larum  bell  wa ;  rung  in  the  castle  in 
times  of  danger  to  summon  the  retainers 
to  arms.     A  variant  of  alai-m  ('/.«'.). 

"  Awake  !  awake  ! 
nin3  the  alaniiii  bell !   Murder  and  tre.ason  : " 
Shakespeare :  Macbeth,  ii, ."!. 

Alasnam.  Alasnain's  lady.  In  the 
Arabian  Xif/Iits'  Tales  Alasnam  has 
eight  diamond  statues,  but  had  to  go  in 
quest  of  a  ninth  more  precious  still,  to 
iill  the  vacant  pedestal.  The  prize  was 
found  in  the  lady  who  bec;ime  his  wife, 
at  ouce  the  most  beautiful  and  the  most 
perfect  of  her  race. 

"  There  is  wanrinpr  one  pure  and  perfect  model, 
and  that  one,  wherever  it  is  to  he  found,  is  like 
Alasuaui's  ladv,  worth  thcni  all."— ,Sir  Waltir 
.Scott. 

Alasnam's  Mirror.  Tlie  "touch- 
stone of  virtue,"  given  to  Alasnam  by 
one  of  the  Genii.  If  he  looked  in  this 
mirror  it  informed  him  whether  a  damsel 
would  remain  to  him  faithful  or  not.  If 
the  mirror  remained  uusullied  so  would 
the  maiden ;   if  it  clouded,  the  maiden 


would  prove  faithless. — Arabian  XiyJits  : 
I'rinee  Zeijn  Alasnam. 

Alas'tor.  The  evil  genius  of  a  house ; 
a  Nemesis.  Cicero  says  :  "  Who  medi- 
tated kilUng  himself  that  he  might 
become  the  Alastor  of  Augustus,  whom 
he  hated."  Shelley  has  a  poem  entitled 
"  Alastor,  or  The  Spirit  of  Solitude." 
The  word  is  Greek  [alastur,  the  aveng- 
ing god,  a  title  applied  to  Zeus)  ;  the 
Romans  had  their  Jupiter  Viudex  ;  and 
we  read  in  the  Bible,  "  Vengeance  is 
mine.  I  will  repa}',  .saith  the  Lord  " 
{Itojii.  xii.  19). 

Alauda.  A  Roman  legion  raised  by 
Julius  Ctesar  in  Gaul,  and  so  called 
because  they  carried  a  lark's  taft  on  the 
top  of  their  lielmets. 

Alawy.  The  Nile  is  so  called  by  the 
Abyssinians.  The  word  means  "  the 
giant." 

Alb.  The  long  white  tunic  (Latin, 
albax,  white)  bound  round  the  waist 
with  a  girdle.  The  dress  is  emblematical 
of  purity  and  continence,  and  worn  by 
priests  when  saying  Mass. 

Albadara.  A  bone  which  the  Arabs 
say  defies  destruction,  and  which,  at  the 
resurrection,  will  be  the  germ  of  the  new 
body.  The  Jews  called  it  Luz  i'/.r.) ; 
and  the  "  Os  sacrum  "  (<•/.''.)  refers  prob- 
aWy  to  the  same  suiierstitiou. 

Alban  ('S7.),  like  St.  Denis,  is  re- 
presented as  carrj'ing  liis  head  between 
his  hands.  His  attributes  are  a  sword 
and  a  crown. 

St.  Aphiddisius,  St.  Aventine,  St.  Desiderins, 
St.  Chrysoliiis,  St.  Hilarian,  St.  Leo,  St.  Lucamis. 
St.  I.nciaii,  St.  Prolia,  St.  Solanj-'ia,  and  several 
oilier  niai'tyrs.  are  represented  as  carrying;  their 
he.ids  in  their  hands.  .\n  artist's  liungliui,'  way 
(d'  id''ntif.\iiiL.'a  headless  trunk. 

Albania,  Tiu'key,  or  rather  the 
region  about  the  Caucasus.  The  word 
mciins  tlie  ''  mountainous  region." 

Albanian  Hat  {Ai/).  "  Un  chapeau 
a  rAlbantiise."  A  sugar-lotif  hat,  such 
as,  was  worn  by  the  Albanians  in  the 
sixteenth  centur}'. 

Alba'no  Stone  or  Peperi'no,  used  by 
the  Romtins  in  building  ;  a  volctmic  tufa 
quarried  ;it  Alba'no. 

Albany.     Scotland.     (See  Albin.) 

Alba'ti.  The  white  brethi-en.  Certain 
Cliristitiii  fanatics  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  so  called  because  they  dressed 
in  white.  Also  tlie  recently  baptised. 
(Latin.) 

Albatross.  The  largest  of  web- 
fonteil  liirds,  called  by  sailors  the  Cape 
S/ierj),  from  its  frcc^uenting  the  Cape  of 


Albert 


27 


Album. 


Good  Hope.  It  gorges  itself,  and  then 
sits  motionless  upon  the  waves.  It  is  said 
to  sleep  in  the  air,  because  its  flight  is  a 
gliding  witliout  any  apparent  motion  of 
its  long  wings.  Sailors  say  it  is  fatal  to 
shoot  an  albatross.  Coleridge's  Aii- 
ciciif  Mariner  is  founded  on  tliis  super- 
stition. 

Albert  {An).  A  chain  from  the 
waistcoat  pocket  to  a  button  in  front  of 
the  waistcoat.  So  called  from  Prince 
Albert,  the  consort  of  Queen  Victoria. 
When  he  went  to  Birmingham,  in  1819, 
he  was  presented  bj^  the  jewellers  of  the 
town  with  such  a  chain,  and  the  fashion 
took  the  public  fancy. 

Albertaz'zo  (in  Orlando  FnrioHo) 
married  Alda,  daughter  of  Otho,  Duke  of 
Saxony.  His  sons  were  Hugh  or  Ugo, 
and  Fulke  or  Fulco.  From  this  family 
springs  the  Royal  Family  of  England. 

Albia'zar  (in  Jerusalem  Belivcrcd). 
One  of  the  leaders  of  the  Arab  host  which 
joined  the  Egyptian  armament  against 
the  Crusaders.  ''A  chief  in  rapine,  not 
in  knighthood  bred."     (Book  xvii.) 

Albigen'ses  (4  syl.).  A  common  name 
for  /icrcticn  prior  to  the  Reformation  ;  so 
called  from  the  Albigeois,  inhabitants  of 
the  district  which  now  is  the-xlepartment 
of  theTani,thecaiiitalof  whicliwas  Allti. 
It  was  here  the  persecution  of  the  Re- 
fonners  began,  under  the  dii'ection  of 
Pope  Iimocent  III.,  in  1209.  The  Wal- 
den'ses  rose  after  them,  but  are  not 
unfrequeutly  confounded  with  them. 

Albin.  A  name  at  one  time  applied 
to  the  northern  part  of  Scotland,  called 
by  the  Romans  "  Caledonia."  This 
was  the  part  inhabited  by  the  Pict^. 
The  Scots  migi'ated  from  Scotia  in  the 
North  of  Ireland,  and  acquired  mastery 
under  Kenneth  M'Alpin  in  813.  In 
poetry  Scotland  is  called  Albin. 

(i.iclic,  «/7/) ;  KPllic,  alp,  our  Alps.  Alpin  is 
either  AHp-bci)  s m  of  the  hills,  i.e.,  the  hill- 
cciiiiitry,  or  Ali}-i>in  (hilly  island).  Albauia 
liiCMiis  the  "hilly  ccnintry." 
"  Woe  to  his  kitidreii,  ami  woe  to  liis  cause. 
When  Alljin  her  ilayniore  indifrnaiitly  draws." 
Campbell:  Lochicl's  Wariiinij. 

Albino.  A  term  originally  applied 
by  the  Portuguese  to  those  negroes  who 
were  mottled  with  white  .spots  ;  but  now 
applied  to  those  who  are  born  with  red 
eyes  and  white  hair.  Albinos  are  found 
among  ichitf  people  as  well  as  among 
negroes.  The  term  is  also  applied  to 
beasts  and  plants.     (Latin,  alban,  white.) 

Albino-poets.  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes,  in  the  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfant 
Table    (chap,    viii.),    speaks    of    Kirke 


White  as  one  of  the  "  sweet  Albino 
poets,"  whose  "plaintive  song"  he 
admires.  It  impUes  some  deficiency  of 
virility,  as  albinism  suggests  weakness, 
and  possibly  is  meant  as  a  play  upon 
the  name  in  this  particular  instance. 

Al'bion.  England,  so  named  from 
the  ancient  inhaliitants  called  Albio'nes. 
The  usual  etymology  of  albiis  (white), 
said  to  have  been  given  by  Julius  Caesar 
in  allusion  to  the  "  white  cliffs,"  is  quite 
untenable,  as  an  old  Greek  treatise,  tlie 
I)c  Miiiido,  fonnerl}'  ascribed  to  Aris- 
totle, mentions  the  islands  of  Albion 
and  lerne  three  hundred  years  before 
the  invasion  of  Csesar.  Probably 
"  Albion "  or  Albany  was  the  Celtic 
name  of  all  Great  Britain,  subsequently 
restricted  to  Scotland,  and  then  to  the 
Highlands  of  Scotland.  Certainly  the 
inhabitants  of  the  whole  island  are  im- 
plied in  the  word  Albiones  in  Festus 
Avienus's  account  of  the  voyage  of 
Hamilcar  in  the  fifth  century  B.C.  {See 
Albin.) 

"Beyond  the  Pillars  of  Hercu'e;  is  the  ocean 
\vh)ch  flows  round  the  earth,  and  in  it  are  2  very 
huT'e  islnnds  lalled  Biit.annia,  viz.,  Albion  and 
le  \.ii."—l)€  Miindo,  .Sec.  iii. 

Albion.  Son  of  the  king  of  this 
island  when  Oberon  held  his  court  in 
what  Ave  call  Kensington  Gardens.  He 
was  stolen  by  the  elfin  Milkah,  and 
brought  up  in  fairyland.  When  nine- 
teen years  of  age,  he  fell  in  love  with 
Kenna,  daughter  of  King  O'beron,  but 
was  driven  from  the  empire  by  the  in- 
dignant monarch.  Albion  invaded  the 
territory,  but  was  slain  in  the  battle. 
When  Kenna  knew  this,  she  poured  the 
juice  of  moly  over  the  dead  body,  and  it 
changed  into  a  snow-drop. —  'I\  'I'uhell. 

Albion  the  Giant.  Fourth  son  of 
Neptune,  sixth  son  of  O.'-irLs,  and  brother 
of  Hercules,  his  mother  being  Amphi- 
trita.  Albion  the  Giant  was  put  by  his 
father  in  possession  of  the  isle  of  Britain, 
where  he  speedil}-  subdued  the  Samo- 
theans,  the  first  inhabitants.  His 
brother  Bergion  ruled  over  Ireland  and 
the  Orkneys.  Another  of  his  brothers 
was  Lestrigo,  who  subjected  Ital}^  {See 
W.  Harrison's  IntrodHclion  to  Hoiuished' s 
C/ironiele.) 

Albracca's  Damsel  (in  Orlando 
F/irioso)  is  Angelica.  Albracca  is  the 
Ciqiital  of  Cathay  {>j.r.). 

Album.  A  blank  book  for  scraps. 
The  Romans  applied  the  word  to  certain 
tables  overlaid  with  gypsum,  on  which 
were  inscribed  the  annals  of  the  chief 
priests,  the  edicts  of  the  praetors,  and 


Alcade 


28 


Alderman 


rules  relating  to  civil  matters.  lu  the 
Middle  Ages,  "album"  was  the  general 
name  of  a  register  or  list ;  so  called  from 
heing  kejit  either  on  a  white  {ciI/mik)  board 
with  black  letters,  or  on  a  black  board 
witli  white  letters.  For  the  same  reason 
the  boards  in  chui-ches  for  notices,  and 
the  boards  in  universities  containing  the 
names  of  the  college  men,  are  called 
albums. 

Alca'de  (3  syl.).  A  magistrate  is  so 
called  in  8pain  and  Portugal.  The  word 
is  the  Arabic  ol  cadi  (the  judge). 

Alcaic  Verse  or  Alcaim.  A  Greek 
and  Latin  metre,  so  callel  from  Alocon, 
a  lj"ric  poet,  who  invented  it.  Each  line 
is  di\dded  into  two  parts,  thus : 

The  first  two  lines  of  each  stanza  of  the 

ninth  ode  of  Horace  are  in  Alcaics.    The 

first  two  lines  of  the  ode  run  thus,  and 

in  the  same  metre  : 

"  See  how  Sovactc  sroans  with  its  wintry  snow, 

And  weMVy  woudlkuiis  bend  with  the  toilsome 

weight." 

Alcan'tara  {Order  of).  A  military, 
and  religious  order  instituted  in  1214  by 
Alfonso  IX.,  King  of  Castile,  to  com- 
memorate the  taking  of  Alcantara  from 
the  Moors.  The  sovereign  of  Spain  is, 
ex-ojficio,  head  of  the  Oriler.  A  resusci- 
tation of  the  order  of  Sf.  Jididn  of  the 
rear-tree,  instituted  by  Fernando  Gomez 
in  117(3,  better  known  by  the  French 
title  iSY.  Jiilien  da  foirier.  The  badge 
of  the  order  was  a  pear-tree., 

Alcastus  (in  Jerusalem  Delircred). 
The  Cap'aneus  of  the  Crusaders,  leader 
of  6,000  foot  soldiers  from  Helvetia. 

Alee  (2  syl.).  One  of  the  dogs  of 
Actae'on.     The  word  means  "  strength." 

M,..        Alces'te  (2  syl.).     The  hero  of  Mo- 
"'*'   litre's  Mi.saiit]irope.    Not  unlike  Shake- 
speare's character  of  Timon. 

Alchemilla  or  Lady's  Mantle.  The 
alchemist's  plant ;  so  called  because  al- 
chemists collected  the  dew  of  its  leaves 
for  their  operations.  Lady  means  the 
Virgin  Mary,  to  Avhom  the  plant  was 
declicated. 

Alchemy  (Al'-ki-me)  is  the  Arabic 
al  kuiii'ii  (the  secret  art)  ;  so  called 
not  only  because  it  was  carried  on  in 
secret,  but  because  its  main  objects  were 
the  three  great  secrets  of  science  -the 
transmutation  of  baser  metals  into  gold, 
the  universal  solvent,  and  the  elixir-  of 
life. 


Alcim'edon.  A  generic  name  for  a. 
first-rate  carver  in  wood. 

"  Pnrula  iiiinam 
Fatrina.  c<iPlatuni  di\  ini  oinis  Alciniedontis." 
Virgil :  Jiclogue,  iii.  36. 

Alci'na.  The  personification  of  car- 
nal pleasure  in  Orlaitdo  Fiirioso ;  the 
('tree  of  classic  fable,  and  ImLS  of  the 
Arabians.  She  enjoyed  her  lovers  for  a 
time,  and  then  changed  them  into  trees, 
stones,  fountains,  or  beasts,  as  her  fancy 
dictated. 

Alcinoo  pama  dare  (to  give  apples 
to  Alcimjiis).  To  carry  coals  to  New- 
castle ;  sending  cider  to  Herefordshire. 
The  orchards  of  Alciuous,  King  of 
CorcjTa  (Corfu),  were  famous  for  their 
fruits. 

Alcofribas.  The  pseudonym  of 
Eabelais  in  his  Garyantua  and  Vanta- 
(jrucl.  Alcofribas  Nasier  is  an  anagram 
of  "  Fran(^ois  Eabelais."  The  intro- 
duction runs  thus:  "The  inestimable 
life  of  the  great  Gargautua,  father  of 
Pautagruel,  heretofore  composed  by  M. 
Alcofribas,  abstractor  of  the  quint- 
essence, a  book  full  of  iJantagruelism." 

Alcuitli,  mentioned  by  the  Venerable 
Bede,  is  Dumbarton. 

Aldabella  or  AklahcUe  (in  Orlando 
Ftiriom).  Sister  of  Oliviero  and 
Brandimarte,  daughter  of  Monodantes, 
and  wife  of  Orlando. 

Aldabella.  A  marchioness  of  Florence, 
who  gave  entertainment  to  the  mag- 
nates of  the  city.  She  was  very  hand- 
some, heartless,  and  arrogant.  When 
Fazio  became  rich  with  Bartoldo's 
money,  Aldabella  inveigled  him  from 
his  wife,  and  his  wife,  out  of  jealousj'', 
accused  her  husband  of  being  privy  to 
Bartoldo's  death.  Fazio  being  con- 
demned for  murder  and  robbery,  his 
wife  Bianca  accused  Aldabella  of  in- 
veigling him,  and  the  marchioness  was 
condemned  by  the  Duke  of  Florence  to 
spend  the  rest  of  her  life  in  a  nunnery. 
— l)ea)i  Mihnan  :  Fazio. 

Aldeb'aran.  The  sun  in  Arabian 
mythology.  lu  astronomy,  the  star 
called  the  BuWs  eye  in  the  constellation 
Taurus.     (Arabic  «/ the,  debaran.) 

Alderman.  One  of  the  seniors  or 
elders.  Now  applied  to  a  class  of 
magistrates  in  corporate  towns.  In 
London  an  alderman  is  the  chief  magis- 
trate in  a  ward  appointed  by  election. 
Tliere  are  also  aldermen  of  the  County 
Council. 

A  t/trkei/  is  called  an  aldennan,  both 
from  its  presence  in  aldermanic  feasts, 


Alderman 


29 


Alectromancy 


aud  also  because  of  its  red  and  purple 
coloui'S  about  the  bead  aud  ueck,  which 
make  it  a  sort  of  poultry  alderiuaii. 

An  alderman  in  cJiains,  by  a  similar 
effort  of  wit,  is  a  turkey  hung  with 
sausages. 

Alderman  (^-i«).  A  burglar's  tool; 
a  crowbar  for  forcing  safes.  So  called 
from  the  high  rauk  it  holds  with 
burglars. 

Alderman  (^l>i).  A  cant  term  for 
half  a-crowu.  An  alderman  as  chief 
magistrate  is  half  a  king  in  his  own 
ward  ;  and  half  a  crown  is  half  a  king. 

Aldgate  Pump.  A  dniKi/ht  on 
Altlyate  rump.  A  cheque  with  no 
effects.  A  worthless  bill.  The  pun  is 
on  the  word  draught,  which  means 
either  an  order  on  a  bank  for  money  or 
a  sup  of  liquor. 

Al  dibo-ron  te-p2ios  co-phor  nio.  A 

courtier  in  Henry  Carey's  farce  called 
Cliro'Hoit-Jiu'toH-thol'ogos. 

Aldiger  (in  Orlando  Fiirioso). 
Buo'vo's  sou,  of  the  house  of  Clarmont, 
who  lived  in  Ag'rismont  Castle.  He 
was  brother  of  Malagi'gi  and  Vivian  ;  all 

Christians. 

Aldine  ('2  syl.).  Leader  of  the  second 
squadron  of  Arabs  who  joined  the  Egyp- 
tian annament  against  the  Crusaders. 
— ■  Tdsso  :  Jeritmlcm  Ldirervd.  {See 
Sypiiax.) 

Aldine  Editions.  Editions  of  the 
Greek  and  Latin  classics,  published  and 
printed  under  the  superintendence  of 
Aldo  Manuz'io,  his  father-in-law  Andrea 
of  Asolo,  aud  his  son  Paolo  (1490-1597)  ; 
most  of  them  in  small  octavo,  and  all 
noted  for  their  accuracy.  The  father 
invented  the  type  called  Unlies,  once 
called  AldUie,  and  first  used  in  printing 
Vin/U,  loOl. 

Aldingar  {Sir).  Steward  of  Queen 
Eleanor,  wife  of  Henry  II.  He  im- 
peached her  fidelity,  and  submitted  to 
a  combat  to  substantiate  his  charge ; 
but  an  angel,  in  the  shajie  of  a  child, 
established  the  queen's  innocence.  — 
Fercifs  Ileliques. 

Ale  is  the  Scandinavian  HI,  called  ealo 
in  our  island.  Beer,  writteu  here,  even  in 
the  reign  of  James  I.,  is  the  Anglo-Saxon 
hear,  from  berc  (barley).  A  beverage 
made  from  barley  is  mentioned  by 
Tacitus  aud  even  Herodotus.  Hops  were 
introduced  from  Holland  aud  used  for 
brewing  in  1524:,  but  their  use  was  pro- 
hibit'd  by  Act  of  Parliament  in  1.528— a 


prohibition  which  soon  fell  into  disu?c. 
Ale  is  made  from  pale  malt,  whence  its 
light  colour  ;  porter  and  stout  from  malt 
more  highly  dried.  Beer  is  the  general 
word,  and  in  many  parts  of  England 
includes  ale,  poiter,  and  stout.  The 
word  ale  was  introduced  by  the  Danes, 
and  the  word  beer  by  the  Teutons. 
Among  Loudon  brewers  beer  means  the 
dark  form,  called  also  stout  or  porter. 

'•  Calka  ale  am. mi;  nn'ii  ;  but  l,y  tlie  yods  lallel 
hL\'r."-Tlu:  AU-ismi'd. 

Aleberry,  a  corruption  of  ale-bree. 
A  drink  made  of  hot  ale,  spice,  sugai', 
and  toast.  Bums  speaks  of  the  barley- 
bi'ee  (Anglo-Saxon  brin,  broth). 

"  Cause  an  aleberry  to  be  made  for  ber,  and  put 
into  it  powder  of  aiuipUor."  — T/ie  J'utliway  to 
Health. 

Ale-dagger  {An).  A  dagger  used 
in  self-defence  in  ale-house  brawls. 

"He  that  cliiiikes  with  cutleis  nuist  not  be 
williiiut  Ins  aic-dau'i/er."     (l.-,«0.     (See  N.  E.  D.) 

I'lenr  P.-iinilessc  sa.vs:— "  All  tliat  will  Mot  .  .  . 
wcaie  ali'-lidusr  dau'tri'rs  at  your  backi'S  [sbould 
abstain  from  taverns]."— See  Slutkeapeare  fiocieti), 
P.M. 

Ale-draper,  a  tapster.  Ale-drapenj, 
the  selling  of  ale,  etc. 

"  Xo  otlier  orcupation  liave  T  but  to  bean  alc- 
diaper,"— //.  Clietlle:  Kiiid-liaits'  IJreiimc,  lo'J-'. 

Ale  Knight  {An).  A  knight  of  the 
ale-tub,  a  tippler,  a  sot. 

Ale-silver.  A  yearly  tribute  paid  to 
the  corporation  of  London,  as  a  licence 
for  selling  ale. 

Ale-stake.  The  pole  set  up  before 
ale-houses  by  way  of  "sign."  A  bush 
was  very  often  fixed  to  its  top.  A 
tavern. 

"  A  garland  bad  he  set  upon  bis  bead 
As  great  as  it  werein  for  an  ale-stake." 

C'liaitcer. 
"  I  know  many  an  ale-stake." 

JIawkins:  Evglhh  Drama,  i.  KX). 

Ale-wife.  The  landlady  of  an  ale- 
house or  ale-stand. 

Alec'to.  One  of  the  Furies,  whose 
head  was  covered  with  snakes. 

"  Tben  like  Alecto,  terrible  to  \  iew, 
(Jr  lilie  Medusa,  tbe  Circassian  grew." 

Jioole:  Jerusalem  Delivered,  b.  vi. 

Alectorian  Stone  {An).  A  stone, 
said  to  T)C  of  talismanic  power,  found 
in  the  stomach  of  cocks.  Those  who 
possess  it  are  strong,  brave,  and  wealthy. 
Milo  of  Crotoua  owed  his  strength  to 
this  talisman.  As  a  philtre  it  has  the 
power  of  preventing  thirst  or  of  assuag- 
ing it.     (Greek,  aleelur,  a  cock.) 

Alectromancy.  Divination  hy  a 
cock.  Draw  a  circle,  and  write  in 
succession  round   it   the   letters   of  the 


Aleria 


SO 


Alexandrian  School 


alphabet,  on  each  of  which  lay  a  graiu 
of  com.  Theu  put  a  cock  iu  tlie  centre 
of  the  circle,  and  watcli  what  grains  he 
eats.  The  letters  will  prognosticate  tlie 
answer.  Libauius  and  Jamblicus  thus 
discovered  wlio  was  to  succeed  tlie 
emperor  Yalens.  The  cock  ate  tlie 
grains  over  the  letters  t,  h,  e,  o,  d  = 
Theod  [orus].  Greek  akctor,  cock ; 
viantcia,  divination. 

Ale'ria  (in  Orhoido  Fitrioso).  One 
of  the  Amazons,  and  the  best  beloved  of 
the  ten  wives  of  Guido  the  Savage. 

Alert.  To  be  on  the  watch.  From 
the  Latin  crectns,  part,  of  erif/eir,  to 
set  upright ;  Italian,  ciio  ;  French,  crtc, 
a  watch-tower.  Hence  the  Italian  stare 
aW  crta,  the  Spanish  cattir  alcrta,  and 
the  French  cire  a  Vcrlc,  to  be  on  the 
watch. 

Alessio.  The  lover  of  Liza,  in  Bel- 
li'ui's  opera  of  La  tiunnamhula  (Scribe's 
libretto). 

Alethes  (3  sj-l.).  An  ambassador 
from  Egypt  to  King  Al'adine.  He  is 
represented  as  a  man  of  low  birth  raised 
to  the  highest  rank,  subtle,  false,  de- 
ceitful, and  wily. —  Taum  :  Jerusalem 
Delivered. 

Alexander  and  the  Robber.     Tlie 

robber's  name  was  Uiomedes. — Gesta 
Muiiianono)!,  cxlvi. 

YoH  arc  tli'uikuig  of  Fariiienio,  and  I 
of  Alexander  —i.e.,  you  are  thinking 
what  you  ought  to  receive,  and  I  what 
I  ought  to  give  ;  you  ai'e  thinking  of 
those  castigated,  rewarded,  or  gifted ; 
but  I  of  my  own  position,  and  what 
punishment,  reward,  or  gift  is  con- 
sistent with  my  rank.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  tale  about  Parmenio  and  Alex- 
ander, when  the  king  said,  "I  consider 
not  what  Parmenio  should  receive,  but 
what  Alexander  should  give." 

Oiihj  tiro  Alexanders.  Alexander  said, 
"There  are  but  two  Alexanders — the 
invincible  son  of  Philip,  and  the  inimit- 
able painting  of  the  hero  by  Apelles." 

The  eonVuienec  of  Alexander.  Having 
gained  the  battle  of  Issus  (b.c.  333)  the 
family  of  King  Darius  fell  into  his 
hand ;  but  he  treated  the  ladies  as 
queens,  and  observed  the  greatest  de- 
corum towards  them.  A  eunuch,  having 
escaped,  told  Darius  of  this  noble  con- 
tinence, and  Darius  could  not  but  admire 
such  nobility  in  a  rival. — Arrian  Ana- 
basis of  Alexander,  iv.  20.  (<SVe  Con- 
tinence.) 

Alexander,  so  Paris,  son  of  Priam, 


was  called  by  the  shepherds  who  brought 
him  up. 

Alexander  of  the  North.  Gharks 
XII.  of  Sweden,  so  called  from  his  mili- 
tary achievements.  He  was  coiKjiiered  at 
Pultowa,  in  llussia  (170'J),  by  Czar  Peter 
the  Great  (1682-1718). 

"  ReiiressiiiL'  lieve 
The  frantic  Ale,\;unlei-  of  the  Nortli." 

ThumsDii :  ^\^ivtel■. 

The  Fersian  Alexander.  Sandjar  (1117- 
11-58). 

Alexander  the  Corrector.  Alex- 
ander Grudeu,  author  of  the  "Concord- 
ance to  the  Bible,"  who  petitioned 
Parliament  to  constitute  him  "  Corrector 
of  the  People,"  and  went  about  con- 
stantly with  a  sponge  to  wipe  out  the 
licentious,  coarse,  and  ijrofane  chalk 
sci'awls  which  met  his  eye.  (1701- 
1770.) 

Alexander's  Beard.  A  smooth 
chin,  no  beard  at  all.  An  Amazonian 
chin. 

"  Disgraced  yet  with  Alexamler's  bearde." 
liascoiyiie:  Tiie  Steele  67ns. 

Alexandra  (in  Orlando  Fnrioso). 
Oronthea's  daughter  ;  the  Amazon 
queen. 

Alexandra,  so  Cassandra,  daughter 
of  Priam,  is  called.  The  two  names  are 
mere  variants  of  eacli  other. 

Alexan'drian.  Anything  from  the 
East  was  so  called  by  the  old  chroniclers 
and  romancers,  because  Alexandria  was 
the  dejiot  from  which  Eastern  stores 
reached  Europe. 

"Itecliiied  (111  Alexandrian  carpets  (i.e.,  PeminH). 
Il(i.'<e:  Orhimio  Fariuso,  x.  37. 

Alexandrian  Codex.  A  manuscript 
of  tlie  Scriptures  in  Greek,  which  be- 
longed to  the  library  of  the  ijatriarchs 
of  Alexandria,  in  Africa,  A.D.  1098. 
In  1(528  it  was  sent  as  a  present  to 
Charles  I.,  and  (iu  Ho'.])  was  placed  in 
the  British  Museum.  It  is  on  parchment, 
in  uncial  letters,  and  contains  the  Sep- 
tuagint  version  (excejjt  the  Psalms),  a 
part  of  the  New  Testament,  and  the 
Epistles  of  Clemens  Romanus. 

Alexandrian  Library.  Founded 
by  Ptolemy  So'ter,  in  Alexandria,  in 
Egypt.  The  tale  is  that  it  was  burnt 
and  partly  consumed  iu  391  ;  but  when 
the  city  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  calif 
Omar,  in  (342,  the  Arabs  found  books 
sufficient  to  "  heat  the  baths  of  the  city 
for  six  months."  It  is  said  that  it  con- 
t.ained  700,000  volumes. 

Alexandrian  School.  An  academy 
of  literature  by  Ptolemy,  son  of  La'gos, 


Alexandrine  Age 


31 


Alhambra 


especially  famous  foi-  its  graminariaus 
aud  matliematiciaus.  Of  its  r/irnii- 
■maricDis  the  most  noted  are  Aristarchos, 
Harpocra'tiou,  and  Eratos  theues ;  aud 
of  its  mathematicians,  Ptolemy  aud 
Euclid,  the  former  an  astronomer,  and 
the  latter  the  geometer  whose  Jihmeitts 
are  still  very  generally  used. 

Alexandrine  Age.  From  a.d.  323 
to  (JKJ,  wiicu  Alexaudria,  in  Egypt,  was 
tiio  centre  of  science  and  literature. 

Alexandrine    Philosophy.       The 

system  of  the  Gnostics,  or  Platonised 
form  of  Christianitj'. 

Alexandrines  (4  syl.).  Iambic 
verses  of  12  or  13  syllables,  divided  into 
two  parts  between  the  sixth  aud  seventh 
syllable  ;  so  called  because  they  were 
first  employed  in  a  metrical  romance  of 
Alcxanai'f  tlic  Great,  commeuced  by 
Lambert-li-Cors,  and  continued  by 
Alexandre  de  Bernay,  also  called  Alex- 
andre de  Paris.  The  final  line  of  the 
Spenserian  stanza  is  an  Alexandrine. 

"  A  needless  Alexandrine  ends  the  song, 
"NVliicli,  like  a  Willi iided  sualce,  |  drag's  its  slow 
len.urtli  aluni.'," 
ro)ie  :  Ksifiiii  vn  Criticism,  Vurt  ii.,  li.ies  Sjli-r. 

Alexandrite  (4  syl.).  A  variety  of 
chiysobery  fouud  in  the  mica-slate  of 
the  Urals.  So  named  from  Czar  Alex- 
ander II.  (1818,  18.55-1881),  because  it 
shows  the  Russian  colours,  greeu  and 
red. 

Alexis  ('S7.).  Patron  saint  of  hermits 
and  beggars.  The  story  goes  that  he 
lived  on  his  father's  estate  as  a  hermit 
till  death,  but  was  never  recognised. 

He  is  rejjresented,  in  Christian  art, 
with  a  pilgrim's  haljit  and  staff.  Some- 
times he  is  drawn  as  if  extended  on  a 
mat,  with  a  letter  in  his  hand,  dying. 

Alfa'der  {father  of  all).  The  most 
ancient  and  chief  of  the  Scandinavian 
gods.  Odin,  father  of  the  jEsir,  or 
gods. 

Alfana.     {Sec  Hoese.) 

Alfar'.  The  good  and  bad  genii  of 
the  Scandina  vians. 

Alf'heim  {home  of  the  (/noil  (jiiiii).  A 
celestial  city  inhabited  by  the  elves  aud 
fairies.     {Seandiuavian  inytholoipj.) 

Alfonsin.  An  instrument  for  ex- 
tractiug  balls.  So  called  from  Alfonse 
Ferri,  a  surgeon  of  Naples,  who  in- 
vented it.     (irj.32.) 

Alfonsine  Tables.  Astronomical 
tables  constructed  in  1252,  by  Isaac 
Hazau,    a   Jewish    rabbi,   who    named 


them  iu  honour  of  his  patrou,  Alfonso 
X.,  King  of  Castile,  surnamcd  "The 
Wise." 

Alfonso,  to  whom  Tasso  dedicated 
his  Jerasa/eiu  llelivercd,  was  Alfonso 
d'Esto,  Duke  of  Ferrai'a. 

Alfonso  XL,  of  Castile,  whose 
"  favourite  "  was  Leonora  de  Guzman. 
Being  threatened  withexconunuuicatiou 
unless  he  put  her  away  (as  Leonora  was 
in  love  with  Ferdiuando,  abraveotticer), 
the  king  created  Ferdinando  Marquis 
of  Montreal,  and  gave  him  the  baud  of 
his  mistress  in  marriage.  As  soon  as 
Ferdinando  discovered  who  Leonora 
was,  he  restored  her  to  the  kiug,  and 
retired  to  a  monaster}'.  —  Jjonizettrs 
Opera,  La  Faevrita. 

Alfred's  Scholars.  AVerfrith,  Bishop 
of  Worcester  ;  Ethelstau  and  Werwulf , 
two  Mercian  priests ;  Plegmund  (a 
Mercian) ,  afterwards  Archbishoj)  of  Can- 
terbury ;  Asser  a  Welshman ;  Grhnbald, 
a  great  French  scholar,  etc.,  invited  over 
to  England  by  Kiug  Alfred. 

Al'garsife  (3  syl.).  Son  of  Cambus- 
can,  and  brother  of  Cam'balo,  who 
"  won Theod'ora  to  wife."  It  was  in  the 
"Squire's  Tale,"  by  Chaucer,  but  was 
never  finished.     {See  Canace.) 

"Call  him  up  that  left  half  told 
The  storv  of  Canilnisi-an  Imld, 
Of  Canihall,  and  of  Alu'aisife, 
Aud  who  had  L'auace  lo  wife.' 

Miltiin  :  !l  Penseroan. 

Al'gebra  is  the  Arabic  al  e/ebr  (the 
equalisation),  "the  supplementing  and 
equalising  (process)  ;  "  so  called  because 
the  probleuis  are  solved  by  equations, 
and  tlie  e(piatious  are  made  by  supple- 
mentary terms.  Fancifully  ideutitied 
with  tlie  Arabian  chemist  Gebir. 

Algrind,  of  Spenser,  is  meant  for 
Grindal,  Bishop  of  London  iu  the  be- 
ginning of  Elizabeth's  reign.  He  was 
a  Marian  exile,  aud  not  a  very  cordial 
co-operator  with  BishojD  Parker. 

"The  hills  where  dwelled  holy  saints 

I  revereuce  aud  adore  ; 
Not  for  themselves,  but  for  the  saints, 

Which  had  lieen  dead  nf  yore. 
Aud  unw  they  lieen  to  lioaven  for  went, 

Thi'ir  u'oo<l  is  with  tliein  go  ; 
Their  sample  to  us  only  lent, 

That  als  we  mought  do  so. 
"  Shepherds  they  wereu  of  the  best, 

And  lived  in  lowly  leas. 
And  sitli  their  sonls  he  now  at  rest, 

Why  ilom-  we  thrni  ili-ease  ? 
Surh  one  ho  was  las  1  li;i\e  heard) 

Old  Ali-'riuil.iftcn  same. 
That  whilonie  was  the  first  shepherd, 

And  lived  with  little  gain." 

Eclogue  \  ii. 

Alham'bra.      The     palace    of     Ihe 

ancient  Moors  iu  Grana'da.     The  word 


Ali 


32 


All  cannot  do  all 


is  the  Arabic  al-hamra,  or  at  full  leugth 
haV-at  al  hamra  (the  red  castle). 

Ali.  Cousin  aud  son-iu-law  of  Ma- 
homet, the  heauty  of  whose  eyes  is  with 
the  Persiaus  proverbial ;  insomuch  that 
the  highest  term  they  emj^loy  to  express 
beauty  is  Ayn  liali  (eyes  of  Ali). — 
Chardin. 

Alias.  "You  have  as  many  aliases 
as  Robin  of  Bagshot,"  one  of  Mac- 
heath's  gang :  he  was  Robin  of  Bag- 
shot,  alias  Gordon,  alias  Bluff  Bob,  alinn 
Carbuncle,  alias 'Bob 'Booty. — Gaij:  Tlw 
Bcgyar^s  Opera. 

Alibi  (elsewhere).  A  plea  of  having 
been  at  another  place  at  the  time  that 
an  offence  is  alleged  to  have  been  com- 
mitted. 

"Xover  mind  the  charactor,  and  stick  to  the 
alley  l)i,  XiMhiii:-'  like  an  alley  hi,  Samiii,v,  no- 
thinj-'."— /^ ((■/.(  ».s';  Pickicick  fupers. 

Alibi  Clock  {An),  1887.  A  clock 
which  strikes  one  hour,  while  the  hands 
point  to  a  dift'ereut  time,  the  real  time 
being  neither  one  nor  the  other. 

Aliboron.  J/aitrc  Alihoyoti.  Mr. 
Jackass.  Aliboron  is  the  name  of  a 
jackass  in  La  Fontaine's  Fables.     {Sec 

GrONIN.) 

Alice.  The  foster-sister  of  Robert  le 
Diable,  aud  bride  of  Rambaldo,  the 
Norman  troubadour.  She  came  to  Pa- 
lermo to  place  in  the  duke's  hand  her 
mol'ior's  will,  which  he  was  enjoined 
not  to  read  till  he  was  a  virtuous  man. 
When  Bertram,  his  fiend-father,  tempted 
his  son  to  evil,  Alice  proved  his  good 
genius ;  and  when,  at  last,  Bertram 
claimed  his  soul  as  the  price  of  his  ill 
deeds,  Alice  read  the  "will,"  and  won 
him  from  the  evil  one.  — Meyerbeer'' s 
Opera,  Ilohcrto  il  Diavolo. 

Alice  Brand.  Wife  of  Lord  Richard, 

cursed  with  the  "  sleepless  ej-o."  Alice 
signed  Urgau  the  dwarf  thrice  with  the 
sign  of  the  ci'oss,  and  he  became  "the 
fairest  knight  in  all  Scotland  ;  "  when 
Alice  recognised  in  him  her  own  brother. 
— SVr  Walter  Seott  :  The  Laihj  of  the 
Like,  iv.  VI. 

Aliclii'no  {a-iiifz-rlrooped).  A  devil,  in 
The  Inferno  of  Dante. 

Alick  and  Sandie.  Contractions  of 
Alexander  ;  the  one  being  Alex'  aud  the 
other  'xander. 

Al'icon.  The  seventh  heaven,  to 
which  Azrael  conveys  the  siiirits  of  the 
just,     {^[ahoinetan  mi/tholof/ij.) 

Alien  Priory  {An).  A  priory  which 
owes  allegiance  to  another  priory.     A 


sub-priory,  like  Rufford  Abbey,  Notts, 
which  was  under  the  prior  of  Rievaulx 
in  Yorkshire. 

Alifan'faron,  the  giant.  Don  Quixote 
attacked  a  flock  of  sheej),  which  he 
declared  to  be  the  army  of  the  giant 
Alifanfarou.  Similarly  Ajax,  in  a  tit  of 
madness,  fell  upon  a  flock  of  sheep, 
which  he  mistook  for  Grecian  princes. 

Alilat.  The  name  by  which  the 
Artilis  adore  nature,  which  they  repre- 
sent by  a  crescent  moon. 

Aliprando  (in  Jerusalem  Behrered). 
One  of  the  Christian  knights.  Having 
discovered  the  armour  of  Riualdo  cast 
on  one  side,  he  took  it  to  Godfrey,  who 
very  naturally  inferred  that  Riualdo  had 
been  shiin.     {See  Gen.  xxxvii.  31-35.) 

Al'iris.  Sultan  of  Lower  Buehar'ia. 
Under  the  disguised  name  of  Fer'amorz, 
he  accompanied  Lalla  Rookh,  his  be- 
trothed, from  Delhi,  and  won  her  heart  by 
his  ways,  and  the  tales  he  told  on  the 
journey.  The  lady  fell  in  love  with  the 
poet,  and  was  delighted  to  find,  on  the 
morning  of  the  wedding,  that  Feramorz 
was,  in  fact,  the  sultan,  her  intended 
husband. —  'T.  Jloore  :  Lalla  Rookh. 

Al  Kader  {tlie  Dieuie  decree).  A 
particuhir  night  in  the  month  Ramad- 
han,  when  the  Arabs  say  that  angels 
descend  to  earth,  and  Galiriel  reveals  to 
man  the  decrees  of  God. — Al  Lioran, 
ch.  xcviii. 

Alkahest.  The  hypothetical  uni- 
versal solvent.  The  word  was  invented 
by  Paracelsus. 

Al  Rakim  (pronounce  Rah-keem'). 
The  dog  in  the  legend  of  the  Seven 
Sleepers  of  Ephesus. 

Al-Sirat  (Arabian,  the  path).  The 
bridge  over  hell,  no  wider  than  the 
edge  of  a  sword,  across  which  every  one 
who  enters  heaven  must  pass.  (Jla- 
hoiiietan  tlieoloyij.) 

All.  Everything.  "  Our  all,"  every- 
thing we  jjossess. 

"Our  all  is  at  slake." 

.UUti>.im:  State  0/  War. 

All  and  Some.  "One  and  all." 
(Old  English,  calle  cct  soiiuiie,  all  at  once, 
altogether.) 

'■^^u^v  stop  your  niiprs,  readers,  ;'.ll  and  S(inie." 
Driiihn:  .\bsahin  and  .\(:hito,,li(l. 

All  and  Sundry.  All  without  ex- 
ception. 

"  He  iM\i:ed  all  and  snndry  to  pirtake  freely  I'f 
tl  e  .laten  cake  and  ale."— //(i(i  Vume. 

All  cannot  do  all.  Horace  says, 
"  Non  omnia  jiossumus  omnes."  Ger- 
man proverb,   "Eiu  jeder  kauu  nicht 


All  Fools'  Day 


S3 


All  Souls'  Day 


alles."  All  are  not  equally  clever.  Or 
rather,  "Be  not  suiiH-ised  that  I  cannot 
do  what  you  can  do,  for  we  are  not  all 
exactlj'  alike." 

All  Fools'  Day  (Ai)ril  1st).  {Sec 
Apkil  Fool.) 

All  Fours.  A  game  of  cards ;  so 
called  from  the  four  jjoints  tliut  are  at 
stake,  viz.  High,  Low,  Jack,  and  Game. 

To  (JO  on  all  fours  is  to  crawl  about 
on  knees  and  hands  like  a  little  child. 

It  dues  not  r/o  on  all  fours  means  it 
does  not  suit  in  every  minute  particular  ; 
it  does  not  fully  satisfy  the  demand.  It 
limps  as  a  quadruped  which  does  not  go 
on  all  its  four  legs.  Oninis  cuinparatio 
claudicat  (all  similes  limp). 

"  X(j  simile  can  go  on  :ill-fours." 

ilacauhiy. 

All-hallown  Summer.  The  second 
summer,  or  the  summerly  time  which 
sets  in  about  AU-Hallows-tide.  Called 
by  the  French,  Vcte  de  St.  Mart'ni 
(from  October  9th  to  November  11th). 
Also  called  St.  Luke's  Summer  (St. 
Luke's  Day  is  October  ISth).  The 
Indian  summer.  Shakespeare  uses  the 
tenn— 

"Farewell,  tlioii  latter  spring;  farewell,  AU- 
liallowu  Summer !" 

1  Beiinj  IV.  i.  •_'. 

All  Hallow's  Day  (November  1st). 
The  French  call  it  Toiissaiiif,  which  we 
have  translated  All  Saints'  Day.  Hallow- 
mas is  All -Saints'  festival.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  hal'uj,  but  HdUg-niondth  was 
September,  and  Hal'uj-dieg  was  simply 
a  Holy -day.) 

All  Hallows'  Eve.  The  Scotch  tradi- 
tion is,  that  those  born  on  All  Hallows' 
Eve  liave  the  gift  of  double  sight,  and 
commanding  powers  over  spirits.  Mary 
Avenel,  on  this  supposition,  is  made 
to  see  the  White  Ladj',  invisible  to  less 
gifted  visions. 

"  Beiii'JT  born  on  All-hallows'  Eve,  slie  (Mary 
Avenel)  was  sniiposeil  to  tie  investeil  with  p  )wer 
over  the  invisilile  world."  (.See  Sir  Walter  Scott  ; 
'I'he  Mon;istiiry,  chap,  xiv.) 

All  in  all.  He  is  all  in  all  to  vie, 
that  is,  the  dearest  object  of  my  affec- 
tion. (Jod  shall  he  all  in  all  means  all 
creation  shall  be  absorbed  or  gatliered 
into  God.  The  phrase  is  also  used  ad- 
verbially, meaning  altogether,  as  :  — 

"Take  him  for  all  in  all. 
I  shall  n(jt  loiik  n|Hin  his  like  airain." 

Shakespeare  :  llctiidet,  ii.  -'. 

All  in  the  Wrong.  A  drama,  by 
Murphy,  borrowed  from  Destouches,  the 
French  dramatist. 


All  is  lost  that  is  jiut  in  a  riven  dish. 
In  Latin,  "  Pertiisum  quicquid  infun- 
dltur  in  dolium,  perit."  (It  is  no  use 
helping  the  insolvent.) 

All  is  not  gold  that  glitters  or 
glisters.  Trust  not  to  appearances.  In 
Latin,  "  Nulla  fides  fronti." 

"  Not  all  that  tempts  your  wandering  eyes 
And  heedless  hearts  is  lawful  prize, 
Nor  all  that  glisters  gold." 

Cridj  :  Tfie  Cat  and  the  Gold  Fiah. 

All  my  Eye    (and)   Betty  Martin. 

All  nonsense.  Joe  Miller  says  that  a 
Jack  Tar  went  into  a  foreign  church, 
where  he  heard  some  one  uttering  these 
words — Ah  .'  inihi,  bea'te  3fariine  (Ah! 
[grant]  me,  Blessed  Martin).  On  gi\'ing 
an  account  of  his  adventure.  Jack  said 
he  could  not  make  much  out  of  it,  but  it 
seemed  to  him  very  like  "All  my  eye 
and  Betty  Martin."  Grose  has  "  Mihi 
beataj  Martinis  "  [sie].  The  shortened 
phrase,  "  All  my  eye,"  is  very  common. 

All  one.  The  same  in  effect.  An- 
swers the  same  purpose. 

All-overish.  A  familiar  expression 
meaning  all orer  ill  at  ease.  "I  feel  all- 
overish,"  not  exactly  ill,  but  uncom- 
fortable all  over.  The  precursor  of  a 
fever,  influenza,  ague,  etc. 

All  Saints  or  All  Hallows.  In  610 
the  Pope  of  Rome  ordered  that  the 
heathen  Pantheon  should  be  converted 
into  a  Christian  church,  and  dedicated 
to  the  honour  of  all  martjTS.  The 
festival  of  All  Saints  was  first  lield  on 
May  1st,  but  in  the  year  834  it  was 
changed  to  November  1st.  "  Hallows  " 
is  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  /idliff  (holy). 

All  Serene,  derived  from  the  Spanish 
word  seri'na.  In  Cuba  the  word  is  used 
as  a  coiuitersigu  by  sentinels,  and  is 
about  equivalent  to  our  "All  right,"  or 
"All's  well." 

All  Souls'  Day.  The  2nd  of  No- 
vember, so  called  because  the  Roman 
Catholics  on  that  day  seek  by  prayer 
and  almsgiving  to'alleviate  the  sufferings 
of  sovds  in  purgatory.  It  was  first  insti- 
tuted in  the  monastery  of  Clugny,  in  993. 

According  to  tradition,  a  pilgrim,  re- 
turning from  the  Holy  Land,  was  com- 
pelled by  a  stonn  to  land  on  a  rocky 
island,  where  he  found  a  hermit,  who 
told  him  that  among  Ihe  cliffs  of  the 
island  was  an  opening  into  the  infernal 
regions  through  whicli  huge  flames  as- 
cended, and  where  the  groans  of  the 
tormented  were  distinctly  audible.  The 
pilgiim  told  Odilo,  abbot  of  Clugny,  of 
this  ;  and  the  abbot  appointed  the  day 
following,  which  was  November  '-'ud,  to 


All  the  go 


34 


Alliteration 


be  set  apart  for  the  benefit  of  souls  in 
purgatoiy. 

All  the  go.  All  the  fashion.  Drapers 
will  tell  you  that  certain  goods  "go  off 
well."  They  are  in  great  demand,  all 
the  mode,  quite  in  vogue. 

"  Her  cartr  is  liuncr  in  tlje  West-eii<i  jlrniis, 
Witli  lier  niuue  in  full  «n  Ilie  wliite  l.eluw  ; 
And  ;ill  <l.iv  loiii.-  tliei-e's  a  hit;  crowd  st.oiis 
To  look  ;it  tlic'liidy  who's  "  ;ill  the  i-'o." 
Sims:  Ballada  ofliabijlon  0'  Beauty  and  the  Beast  "i. 

All  there.  Said  of  a  sharp-witted 
person.  Not  all  there,  said  of  one  of 
weak  intellect.  The  one  has  all  his 
wits  about  him,  the  other  lias  not. 

All  this  for  a  Song !  The  exclama- 
tion of  Burleigh,  wlieu  Queen  Elizabeth 
ordered  him  to  give  £100  to  Spenser  for 
a  royal  gratuity. 

All  to  break  (Judges  ix.  .53).  "  A 
certain  woman  cast  a  piece  of  millstone 
upon  Abimelech's  head,  and  all  to 
brake  his  skull "  does  not  mean  for  the 
sake  of  breaking  his  skull,  but  that  she 
wholly  smashed  his  skull.  A  spurious 
fonn,  owing  its  existence  to  a  typo- 
gi-aphical  mistake.  The  to  really  be- 
longs to  the  verb;  and  in  the  last 
passage  quoted  it  should  be  I'eud  "  all 
to-brake."  The  to  is  a  Teutonic  par- 
ticle, meaning  asunder,  in  pieces.  It  is 
very  common  in  Old  English,  where  we 
have  "To-bite,"  i.e.  bite  in  pieces,  to- 
cleave,  to-rend,  to-tear.  All  is  the 
adverb  =  entirely,  wholly.  So  "all  to 
bebattered  "  =  wholly  battered  to  pieces. 
All -to -frozen.  Here  to-frozen  is  in- 
tensitive.  So  in  Latin  ,dis-crucior  = 
valde  crucior.  Plautus  (in  his  Mcnaehmi, 
ii.  line  24)  uses  the  phrase  "  dis-caveas 
malo,"  i.e.  be  fully  on  your  guard,  etc., 
be  very  much  beware  of. 

Gotliie,  rfj.'!;  O.  lJ.,tor;  Old  Hiirh  German,  2«r; 
Latin,  dis  ;  (ireek,  lU. 

•' Mercutio's  icy  hand  liad  all-to-frozen  mine" 
{i.e.  wholly  frozen  up  mine).— Romeo  and  Juliet 

•'  Her  winirs  .  .  .  were  al-to-ruffled  and 
sometimes  iiiipaired/'—Jfi/tuii;  Coiikis.       ..  . 

All  waters  {T  am  for).  I  am  a  Jack 
of  all  trades,  can  turn  mj^  hand  to  any- 
thing, a  good  all-round  man.  Like  a 
fish  which  can  live  in  salt  or  fresh 
water. 

"  I  am  for  .all  waters." 
Khakenpeare  :  TivclflJi  Xight,  \y.  2. 

All-work.  A  iiiaid  of  all  irork.  A 
general  servant  who  does  all  the  work 
of  a  house ;  at  once  nurse-maid,  house- 
maid, and  cook. 

Alia  or  Allah  (that  is,  al-ildh).    "  The 

adorable."      The   Arabic   name   of   the 

Supreme  Being. 

"The  city  won  for  Allah  from  tlie  Giaour." 
^  Dyrun :  Childe  Uurultl,  ii.  7'. 


Alia  Akbar'.  Allah  is  most  inii/hfi/. 
The  cry  of  the  Arabs. — Ockley. 

Allan  -  a  -  Dale.  The  minstrel  of 
Robin  Hood's  yeomen.  He  was  assisted 
by  Robin  Hood  in  carrying  off  his  bride, 
when  on  the  point  of  being  married 
against  her  will  to  a  rich  old  knight. 

Allemand.  "  Une  querelle  d'  Alle- 
maud,"  a  iiuarrel  about  nothing.  We 
call  pot  valour  "  Dutch  courage." 

Allen.     {Sec  Allwoethy.) 

Allestree.  Richard  Allestree,  of 
Derby,  was  a  noted  almanac  maker  in 
Ben  Jonson's  time. 

"  A  little  more 
Would  fetch  all  his  astronomy  from  Allestree." 
lien  Juiisoii :  Mugnttic  Lady,  i\ .  ■'  (1C3J). 


The  Stock  Exchange 


AUey    {The). 
Alley. 

"John  Rive,  after  many  active  years  in  the 
Alley,  retired  to  the  Continent,  and  died  at  the 
at'e  of  l\»."—Old  and  Xew  London,  p.  4"fi. 

Alliensis  {Hies)  (June  16th,  B.C.  390), 
when  the  Romans  were  cut  to  pieces  by 
the  Gauls  near  the  banks  of  the  river 
AUia;  and  ever  after  held  to  be  a  dies 
nefastus,  or  unlucky  day. 

Alligator.  When  the  Spaniards  first 
saw  this  reptile  in  the  New  World,  they 
called  it  el  lagurto  (the  lizard).  Sir  Wal- 
ter Raleigh  called  these  creatures  layartos, 
and  Ben  Jouson  alligartas. 

"To  the  present  day  the  Europeans  in  Ceylon 
apply  the  term  ailii-'ator  to  what  are  in  reality 
crocodiles."— 7.  E.  Teiineut:  Ceylon  (vol.  1.  part  i', 
chap.  iii.  p.  Isi)'. 

Alligator  Pears  (the  fruit  of  Pet-sea 
gratissinia)  is  a  curious  corruption.  The 
aboriginal  Carib  word  for  the  tree  is 
"aouacate,"  which  the  Spanish  dis- 
coverers pronounced  "avocado,"  and 
English  sailors  called  "alligator,"  as 
the  nearest  approach  which  occurred  to 
them. 

Alliteration. 

Dr.  Bethel  of  Eton, 

"  Ilidactic,  drv,  declamatory,  dull, 
Bir,  iiurly  Bethel  bellows  like  a  hull  " 

Eton  College. 

Caedinal  Wolsey. 

"  BcKot  liv  liutchers,  hut  by  liishnps  bred, 
How  hi«h  his  Honour  holds  his  haughty  head." 

U  Hucbald  composed  an  alliterative 
poem  on  Charles  the  Bald,  every  word 
of  which  begins  with  c. 

Henry  Harder  composed  a  poem  of 
100  lines,  in  Latin  hexameters,  on  cats, 
every  word  of  which  begins  with  c.  The 
title  is  Canmn  cam  Catis  certamcn 
carmine  conipositam  currente  calamo 
C  Catulli  Cajiinii.  The  first  line  is — 
"  C'attorum  cauimus  cerlamiua  clara  cauunniue." 


Allodials 


Alman 


Hamouicus  wrote  the  Certamen  catho- 
licum  CUM  Calrhiistis,  every  word  of 
which  begins  with  c. 

V  It  is  a  curious  coincideuce  that  the 
names  of  these  three  men  all  begin  with 
H. 

H  In  the  Mdferla  more  Magistralis 
every  word  begins  with  m. 

H  Placentius,  the  Dominican,  who  died 
1.518,  wrote  a  poem  of  258  Latin  hexa- 
meters, called  Ptigna  I'orcorum,  every 
word  of  which  begins  with  p.  It  begins 
thus : — 

"  PIrtuilite,  Povcelli,  purcuruni  pigra  pi'opa&'u." 
Which  may  be  translated^ 

"  Praise,  Paul,  prize  pig's  prolitlc  progeny. " 
%  Tusser,  who  died  1.580,  has  a  rhym- 
ii)g  pnem  of   twelve   lines,    every  word 
of  which  begins  with  t. 

H  The  Rev.  B.  Poulter,  prebendary  of 
Winchester,  composed  in  1828  the  famous 
alliterative  alphabetic  poem  in  rhymes. 
Each  word  of  each  line  begins  with  the 
letter  of  the  alphabet  which  it  represents. 
It  begins  thus  : — 

"  .^11  .Austrian  army  awfully  arrayed, 
BuliUy  liy  hattery  liesieged  Belgrade  ; 
Cdssick  c'ciniiiianders,  i-aiinouadiiig  ciime. 
Dealing  destructiun's  de\  astating  duoiu  ;  .  .  ." 

V  Some  ascribe  this  alliterative  poem 
to  Alaric  A.  Watts  (1820).  (.SVr  H. 
SouTHGATE,  Miuuj  Thoucjhts  on  Many 
Thinys.) 

Another  attempt  of  the  same  kind 
begins  thus : — 

"  Aliout  an  age  ago,  as  all  agree, 
Beauteous  Belinda,  brewing  best  Bobea 
Carelessly  chattered,  controverting  clean, 

DiiMin's  derisive,  disputatious  dean    .    .    ." 

Allodials.  Lands  which  are  held  by 
an  absolute  right,  without  even  the  bur- 
den of  homage  or  fidelity  ;  opposed  to 
feudal.  The  word  is  Teutonic — all-Od 
(all  property). 

AUop'athy  is  in  opposition  to  Ho- 
tnwoiyathy.  The  latter  word  is  from  the 
Greek,  homwon  pathos,  similar  disease  ; 
and  the  former  is  alio  pathos,  a  different 
disease.  In  one  case,  "  like  is  to  cure 
like  "  ;  and  in  the  latter,  the  disease  is 
cured  by  its  "antidote." 

Alls.  The  five  Alls.  A  public-house 
sI^M.  It  has  five  human  iigures,  with  a 
motto  to  each  :  — 

(O  A  king  in  bis  regalia    ..    motto  7 goivrn  fiH. 

(ii  A  bislKjp,  in  bis  pontificals    „  Ipriiij  firr  all. 

(:!)  A  lawyer,  iu  bis  gown  ..  „  /  iilnni  for  nil. 

(4)  A  soldier  in  regimentals         „  1  flfiht  for  all. 

(51  A  labouier,  with  bis  tools       „  I  ptiy  for  till. 

Several  of  these  signs  still  e.xist. 

Alh.  Tap -droppings.  The  refuse  of 
all    sorts    of    spirits    drained  from   the 


glasses,  or  spilt  iu  drawing.  The 
mixture  is  sold  in  gin-houses  at  a  cheap 
rate. 

Allworth.  In  A  Xew  IVay  to  lay 
Old  Jh-lits,  by  Massinger. 

All  worthy,  in  Fielding's  7'om  Jone.i, 
is  designed  for  the  author's  friend, 
Ralph  Allen,  of  Bristol. 

"  Let  bumble  Allen,  with  an  awkward  sbanie, 
Do  good  by  stcaltb,  and  blush  to  find  it  fame." 
J'ope:  Epilogue  to  Sat.  i.  13,5, 1."*;. 

Al'ma  {the  human  smiT),  quean  of 
''Body  Castle,"  beset  by  enemies  for 
seven  years  {the  tSeveii  Ayes  of  Man). 
The  besiegers  are  a  rabble  rout  of  evil 
desires,  foul  imaginations,  and  silly 
conceits.  Alma  conducted  Arthur  and 
Sir  Guy  on  over  her  castle.  "  Tlie 
d'tvuie  part  of  a  man,"  says  Spenser, 
"is  eirciilar,  a  circle  being  the  emblem 
of  eternity ;  but  the  moi'tal  part  tri- 
anyular,  as  it  consists  of  three  things — 
blood,  flesh,  and  bones." — I'riot's  I'oem. 

Alma  Mater.  A  collegian  so  calls 
the  university  of  which  he  is  a  member. 
The  words  are  Latin  for  "fostering 
mother." 

"Expulsion  from  bis  Alma  'ila.iei."—Tlie  Col- 
legian and  the  I'ortcr. 

Almack's.  A  suite  of  assembly  rooms 
in  King  Street,  St.  James's  (London), 
built  in  176.5  by  a  Scotchman  named 
Macall,  who  inverted  his  name  to  obviate 
all  prejudice  and  hide  his  origin.  Balls, 
presided  over  by  a  committee  of  ladies 
of  the  highest  rank,  used  to  be  given  at 
these  rooms ;  and  to  be  admitted  to 
them  was  as  great  a  distinction  as  to 
be  presented  at  Court.  The  rooms 
were  afterwards  known  as  Willis's, 
from  the  name  of  the  next  proprietor, 
and  iised  chiefly  for  large  dinners. 
They  were  closed  in  1890. 

Almagest.  The  Syntaxis-meyiste  of 
Ptolenij%  translated  by  the  Arabians  iu^ 
800,  by  order  of  the  calif  Al  Maimon, 
and  then  called  Al-mayhesti,  i.e.  "the 
megiste."  It  contains  numerous  obser- 
vations and  problems  of  geometry  and 
astronomy.  It  is  verj-  rare,  and  more 
precious  than  gold. 

Alman,  a  German.  The  French 
Allc/iiand,  a  German,  which,  of  course, 
is  the  classic  Alamani  or  Alamaiini. 
Similarly,  Almany  =  Germany,  French, 
AUcmaync. 

"Chonodomariusand  Vestralpus,  Aleinan  kings, 
.  .  .  sat  them  downe  neerenntoArgentoratum." 
Holliind:  Ammicnius  MarcelUns. 

"Now  Fnlko  comes  .  .  .  And  dwelt  in 
Ama.uy. "—IlaningiOH  :  Orlando  Furioso,  iii.  30. 


Almanac 


36 


Aloe 


Al'manac  is  the  Arabic  al  manac 
(the  diary).  Verstegeu  says  it  is  the 
Saxon  al-mon-aght  (all  moon  heed),  aud 
that  it  refers  to  the  tallies  of  the  full 
and  new  moons  kept  by  our  Saxon  an- 
cestors. One  of  these  tallies  may  still 
be  seen  at  St.  John's  College,  Cam- 
bridge. 

Before  priiitiiiL',  or  Ijeforc  it  was  roiiunou  : 
By  SoloiiKin  .J;ui'l)i  . .        . .  in  and  after  ll.")0 

„  Peter  de  Dacia about  i»k) 

„  Walter  de  Elvendene i:t.7 

„  Jolin  Sonieis,  Oxford i:wi !  ! 

„  Nicholas  de  Lyniia       l:'«ii 

„   PurhacU H.-,o-UHl 

First  printed  by  Gutenl  e  g,  at  Jlentz     U;>7 
By  Regioinonfanus,  at  Nureinlierg    ..lJ7'_'-.'i 

„  Zainer,  at  I'lni 1I7.-1 

„  Eichard      I'viison     iSlieapeheard's 

Kulendan Wj' '.'. 

„  Stijfflor,  in  Veui.-e        UuH 

„  Poor  Koljiu's  Alniauaik        ..        ..    lusi 
„  Francis     Moore's    Almanack    be- 
tween          IIWS  and  1713 

Stamp  duty  imposed  17I11,  repealed  1n:h. 

The  Man  V  the  Almanac  stack  icith 
pins  (Nat.  Lee),  is  a  man  marked  with 
points  refening  to  signs  of  the  zodiac, 
and  intended  to  indicate  the  favourable 
and  unfavourable  times  of  letting  blood. 

/  sJianU  consalt  your  almanac  (French), 
I  shall  not  come  to  you  to  know  what 
weather  to  expect.  The  reference  is  to 
the  prognostications  of  weather  in  al- 
manacs. 

Almesbury.  It  was  in  a  sanctuary 
at  Almesbury  that  Queen  Guenever  took 
refuge,  after  her  adulterous  passion  for 
Lancelot  was  revealed  to  the  king 
(Arthur) .  Here  she  died  ;  but  her  body 
was  buried  at  Glastonbury. 

Almighty  Dollar.  Washington 
Irving  first  made  use  of  this  expression, 
in  his  sketch  of  a  "  Creole  Village  " 
(1837). 

"Tbealmii-'lity  dollar,  tliat  grejit  oliiect  of  uni- 
versal devotion  tbroughout  our  land.  .  .  ."— 
^Y.  living :  }yol/ert's  Huost,  Creole  Vtlhige,  p.  40. 

V  Ben  Jonson  speaks  of  "  almiglity 
gold." 

Almond  Tree.  Grey  hairs.  The 
Preacher  thus  ilescribes  old  age  : — 

"Iiillirdav  wbeii  tlic  kci-prrsof  Ilic  house  ff/<c 
hail, Is)  sliall  IreuiMc.and  1  he  siroML- men  i/;,c /n/s) 
how  Iln'iiis.'hes.  and  the  i-'iiuilcrs  illif  teeth)  cease 
hec'ausc  they  aie  few,  and  those  that  look  out  of 
the  windows  (//(('<;/(■»■)  he  darkened  .  .  .  and  the 
ahiiond-tree  shall  tlourisli  njiey  hairs  on  a  hald 
pall')- and  the  grasshopper  he  a  burden,  and  de- 
sire shall  fail  .  .  .  when  the  silver  cord  (Jhe 
f!l.iiiiiil  iiiiirriiw)  shall  be  loosed,  the  golden  bowl 
(ititrltert)  liroken,and  the  pitcher  broken  at  the 
cislern  (Iht  fudse  of  the  lieiirt  st(ijijied)."—Eccks. 
xii.  rj-i;. 

Almonry.  The  place  where  the 
almoner  resides,  or  where  alms  are 
distributed.  An  almoner  is  a  jierson 
whose    duty  it   is    to    distribute  alms, 


which,  in  ancient  times,  consiated  of 
one -tenth  of  the  entire  income  of  a 
monastery.     {Sec  Ambey.) 

Alms.     Gifts  to  the  poor. 

Dr.  Jolmson  says  the  word  has  uo  siiiyvlur; 
whereas  Todd  s;iys  it  has  no  plural.  Like  riches, 
it  is  wholly  singular  in  construction,  but  is  used 
l)oth  as  a  noun  singular  and  noun  plural.  Of 
course.it  isAlmos-ine,  almos-ie,  Alnnisc,  alniesse, 
almes,  alms,  the  s  Is  not  the  plural  suflix.  Riches 
is  the  French  richesse.  Both  words  are  singular, 
but,  as  nouns  of  multitude,  prefer  the  plural  con- 
struction. (Latin  dlimoi-iua,  Greek  cleemosyne, 
from  the  verb  tlteo,  1  pity.) 

Alms  Basket.  To  lire  on  the  alms 
basket.     To  live  on  charity. 

Alms-drinlc  Another's  leavings ;  for 
alms  consists  of  broken  bread  aud  the 
residue  of  drink.  It  is  also  ajjplied  to 
the  liquor  which  a  drinker  finds  too 
much,  and  therefore  hands  to  another. 

Alms-fee.  Peter's  pence,  or  Rome 
scot.  Abolished  in  England  by  Henry 
VIII. 

Alms-house.  A  house  where  paupers 
are  sujiported  at  the  public  expense  ;  a 
poor-house.  Also  a  house  set  apart  for 
the  aged  poor  free  of  rent. 

"  Only,  alas  !  the  poor  who  had  neitlier  friends 
nor  attendants. 
Crept  away  to  die  in  the  alms-house,  home 
of  the  homeless." 

Loiigjelluw :  Evangeline,  part  ii.  3,  t!. 

Alms-man.     One  who  lives  on  alms. 

Alna,schar  Dream  {An).  Counting 
j-our  chickens  before  they  are  hatched. 
Alnaschar,  the  barber's  fifth  brother, 
invested  all  liis  money  in  a  basket  of 
glass-ware,  on  which  lie  was  to  make 
a  certain  profit.  The  profit,  being  in- 
vested, was  to  make  more,  and  this  was 
to  go  on  till  he  grew  lich  enough  to 
marry  the  vizier's  daughter.  Being 
angry  witli  his  imttginary  wife  he  gave 
a  kick,  overturned  his  basket,  and  broke 
all  his  wares. 

"  To  indulge  in  Alnasrhar-like  dreams  of  cimi- 
pound  interest  ad  iii/iintuiii."—The  'J'iiiies. 

Alnaschar  of  Modern  Literature. 

Coleridge  has  been  so  called  because  he 
"dreamt "his  Kahla  Khan,  and  wrote 
it  out  next  morning.     (1772-1834.) 

V  Probably  he  had  been  reading 
Purchas's  Pilgrimage,  for  none  can 
doubt  the  resemblance  of  the  two 
pieces. 

Aloe.  A  Hebrew  word,  Greek  aloe. 
A  very  bitter  plant ;  hence  the  proverb, 
riiis  aloes  cjuani  niellis  hahet,  "  (Life)  has 
more  bitters  than  sweets."  The  French 
say,    "La  cote    d'Adam   contieut  plus 


Along-shore  Men 


37 


Alphonso 


d'aloL's  que  de  miel,"  where  cote  (V Adam, 
of  course,  means  woman  or  cue's  wife. 

Socotriue  Aloes  came  originally  from 
the  island  called  Socotra,  in  the  Indian 
Ocean. 

Along-shore  Men  or  Longshoremen, 
that  is  stevedores  (2  syl.),  or  men  em- 
ployed to  load  and  unload  vessels. 

Alonzo  of  A'guilar'.  When  Fer- 
nando, King  of  Aragon,  was  laying  siege 
to  Gi'aua'da,  after  chasing  Zagal  from 
the  gates,  he  asked  who  would  imder- 
take  to  plant  his  banner  on  the  heights. 
Alonzo,  "  the  lowmost  of  the  dons,"  un- 
dertook the  task,  hut  was  cut  down  by 
the  Moors.  His  body  was  exposed  in 
the  wood  of  Oxije'ra,  and  the  Moorish 
damsels,  struck  with  its  beauty,  buried 
it  near  the  brook  of  Alpuxarra. 

Aloof.  Stand  aloof,  away.  A  sea 
term,  meaning  originally  to  bear  to 
■windward,  or  liijf.  (Norwegian,  Ger- 
man, etc.,  liift,  wmd,  breeze.) 

Alorus,  so  tlie  Chaldeans  called  their 
first  king,  who,  they  sa}',  came  from 
Babylon. 

A  I'outrance.  To  the  uttermost. 
(Anglo-French  for  a  outrancc.) 

"A  cliiiniiiion  lias  started  lU'  ti)  iiiaintaiii 
a  Vonlrciiire  lier  iuiiuceuce  of  the  great  offence." 
—Stiiiiilard. 

Alp.  The  Adrian  renegade,  a  Vene- 
tian b}'  extraction,  who  forswore  tlie 
Christian  faith  to  become  a  commander 
in  the  Turkish  army.  He  led  the  host 
to  the  siege  of  Corinth,  while  that 
country  was  under  the  dominion  of  the 
Doge.  He  loved  Fraucesca,  daughter  of 
MLnotti,  governor  of  Corinth,  but  she 
died  of  a  broken  heart  because  he  de- 
serted his  country  and  was  an  apostate. 
The  renegade  was  shot  in  the  siege. — 
Bijroii :  Sicffc  of  Cor'uith. 

Alph.  A  mythical  ' '  sacred  river  in 
Xanadu,"  which  ran  "  through  caverns 
measureless  to  man." — Cohridye  :  Knhla 
Khan. 

Al'pha.  '■'■  I  am  Alpha  and  Oinrr/a, 
the  first  and  the  last "  (Rev.  i.  8). 
"Alpha"  is  the  first,  and  ''0-meg'a" 
the  last  letter  of  the  Greek  alphabet. 
A  n. 

Alphabet.  This  is  the  only  word 
compounded  of  lettei-s  only.  The  Greek 
alplia  (a)  beta  (b)  ;  our  ABC  (book), 
etc. 

V    The    number    of    letters     in    an 


alphabet  varies  in  different  languages. 
Thus  there  are 

21  letters  in  tlie  Italian  alplialiet. 

^•.'  „  Hebrew  &  Syriac  aliiliabet 

•2S  „  Latin  „ 

•-'4  „  Greek 

"5  „  French  „ 

"i>  „  English,  German,  Dutch  „ 

'.'7  „  Spanish  „ 

-S  „  Araliic  „ 

Ki  „  foptic  „ 

Xt  „  Unssian  „ 

as  „  Armenian  „ 

:i!i  „  (icorgian  „ 

40  „  Slavonic  „ 

4S  „  Persian  (Zendi  „ 

49  „  Sanskrit  „ 

V  The  Chinese  have  no  alphabet,  but 
about  20,000  syllabic  characters. 

Ezra  vii.  'Jl  contains  all  the  letters  of  the  En- 
glish laniruage,  presuming  /and  J  to  lie  identical. 

Even  the  Italian  alphabet  is  capable  of  more 
than  seventeen  trillion  cunibinations  ;  that  is,  17 
followed  by  eighteen  other  figures,  as— 

17,000.000,01  Kl,i>H1,(XlO;000  ; 
while   the  English  alphabet  will  combine  into 
more  than  twenty-nine  thousand  nuatrillion  com- 
binations ;  that  is,  aj  followed  by  twenty-seven 
other  ligiires,  as— 

•j9,noo,ooo,ixio,ooo,ooo,noo,ooo,ooo,ooo. 

Yet  we  have  no  means  of  marking  the  se\  eral 
soiiiuls  of  our  different  vowels  ;  nor  can  we  show 
how  to  pronounce  such  simple  words  as  font, 
(pull  and  dull), SMgar  (father  and  rather),  (gin  an(l 
be-.!,'in),  cabn,  lioiirges,  Bcevf  in  "Boeuf-gias," 
aa/s,  and  thousands  of  other  words. 

V  We  want  the  restoration  of  th  to 
distinguish  between  this  and  thin;  a 
Greek  ch  to  distingui.sh  between  C'hairh 
and  Christ,  two  ^'s  (one  soft  and  one 
hard),  two  c's,  two  o's,  half  a  dozen  w's, 
and  so  on. 

V  Take  a,  we  have  fate,  fat,  Thames 
(c),  war  (o),  salt  (au),  etc.  So  with  e, 
we  have  pre;/  (a),  met  (e),  England  (ij, 
seiv  (o),  herl)  (u),  etc.  The  other  vowels 
are  equally  indefinite. 

Alphe'os     and     Arethu'sa.       The 

Greek  ftible  says  tluit  Alphe'os,  the 
river-god,  fell  in  love  with  the  nymph 
Arethu'sa,  who  fled  from  him  in  affriglit. 
The  god  pursued  under  the  sea,  but  the 
nymph  was  changed  into  a  spring,  which 
comes  up  in  the  harbour  of  Syracuse. 

"We  have  seen  a  moustachioed  Alpheos,  at 
Ramsgate,  pursue  an  affrighted  Arethusa."  — 
London  Jleview. 

Alphe'us  (in  Orlando  Fnrioso).  A 
magician  and  prophet  in  the  army  of 
Charlemagne,  slain  in  sleep  by  Clorida'no. 

Alphesibe'a  or  "Arsiniie,"  wife  of 
Alcmeou.  She  gave  her  spouse  the 
fatal   collar,    the   source  of  numberless 

evils. 

So  was  the  necklace  of  Harmon i:i,  and  so 
were  the  collar  and  veil  of  Eviphylc,  wife  of 
AiuphiaiSos. 

Alphonso,  etc.     {See  Alfonso,  etc.) 


Alpleich 


38 


Alvina  Weeps 


Alpleich  or  "  Elfenreigen"  (the  weird 
spirit -song),  that  music  which  some  hear 
before  death.  Faber  refers  to  it  in  his 
J^ihjrims  of  the  Nu/ht. 

"  Hark,  liark,  my  soul  I  Angelic  songs  are 
swc'lliii!,'." 
Pope  also  says,  in  the  Bymg  Chris- 
tian— 

"  Hark  !  tliey  whisper  ;  anpels  say, 
Ssti'r  spirit,  come  away." 

Alpue,  Alpieu  {Alpu),  in  the  game 
of  Basset,  doubling  the  stake  on  a 
WLDiiiug  card. 

"  Wliat  pity  'tis  tlicisi'  ronquering  eyes 
Wliicli  all  iLe  world  subdue, 
.Should,  while  the  lover  gazing  dies. 
Be  only  on  alpue."  Etherege:  Dasert. 

Alquife  {al-ke-fi/).  A  famous  en- 
chanter, introduced  into  the  romances 
of  ancient  times,  especially  tliose  re- 
lating to  Amadis  of  Gaul. 

Alrinach.  The  demon  who  presides 
over  floods  and  earthquakes,  rain  and 
liail.  It  is  this  demon  who  causes  ship- 
wrecks. When  visible,  it  is  in  a  female 
form.     {Eastern  iiujtl(olo(j>j.) 

Alruna-wife  {An).  The  Alrunes 
were  the  lares  or  penates  of  the  ancient 
Germans.  An  Alruna-wife  was  the 
household  goddess  of  a  German  family. 
An  Alruna-maiden  is  a  liousehold 
maiden  goddess. 

"She  CHypatia)  looked  »s  fair  as  the  sun,  and 
talked  like  an  Alruna-wife."— A'lH.'/s'f!/.'  JlyiKitia, 
chap.  x\\. 

Alsa'tia.  The  Whitefriars  sanctuary 
for  debtors  and  law-breakers.  Cunning- 
ham thinks  the  name  is  borrowed  from 
Alsace,  in  France,  which  being  a  frontier 
of  the  Rhine,  was  everlastingly  the  seat 
of  war  and  the  refuge  of  the  disaffected. 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  in  his  Fvrtnnen  of 
Xif/cl,  has  described  the  life  and  state 
of  this  rookery.  He  has  borrowed 
largely  from  Shadwell's  comedy,  Tlie 
ISrjiiirc  of  Ahatia.     {Sec  Petand.) 

Alsvidur.     {Sec  Hoese.) 

Altamo'rus  (in  Jerusalem  T)eUrcre(T). 
King  of  Samarcand',  who  joined  the 
Egyptian  armament  tigainst  the  Crusa- 
ders. "  He  was  sujjreme  in  courage 
as  in  might."  (Book  xvii.)  He  sur- 
rendered himself    to   Godfrey.      (Book 

XX.) 

Altan  Kol  or  Gold  Hirer  (Thibet). 
So  called  from  the  gold  whicli  abounds 
in  its  .stmds. 

Altar  (An),  in  Christian  art.  St. 
Stephen  (the  Pope) ,  and  Thomas  Becket 
are  represented  as  immolated  before  an 
tiltar.  St.  Canute  is  represented  as 
lying   before    an    altar.      St.    Charles 


Borromeo  is  represented  as  kneeling 
before  an  altar.  St.  Gregory  (the  Pope) 
is  represented  as  offcrinfi  saerijirr  before 
an  altar.  And  the  attribute  of  Victor  is 
an  altar  overthrown,  in  allusion  to  his 
throwing  down  a  Roman  altar  in  the 
presence  of  the  Emperor  Maximian. 

jA-d  to  tlie  altar,  i.e.  married.  Said 
of  a  lady.  The  altar  is  the  communion- 
table railed  off  from  the  body  of  the 
church,  where  marriages  are  solemnised. 
The  bride  is  led  up  the  aisle  to  the  rail. 

Alter  ego.  My  double  or  counter- 
part. In  The  Corsican  Brothers,  the 
same  actor  performs  tlie  two  brothers, 
the  one  being  the  alter  ego  of  the  other. 
(Latin,  "a  second  I  ").  One  who  has 
full  powers  to  act  for  another. 

Althaea's  Brand,  a  fatal  contin- 
gency. Althtea's  son  was  to  live  so  long 
as  a  log  of  wood,  then  on  the  fire,  re- 
mained unconsumed.  She  contrived  to 
keep  the  log  unconsumed  for  many 
j'ears,  but  being  angry  one  day  with 
Meleager,  she  pushed  it  into  the  midst 
of  the  fire,  and  it  was  consumed  in  a 
few  minutes.  Meleager  died  at  the 
same  time. —  Ovid:  Metamorphoses,  viii.  i. 

"The  fatal  brand  .\ltli:pa  burned." 

Mni/if.fpeorf.-  :.'  Ilenrij  l'/..  Act  i.  1. 

Althe'a  {Birine).  The  divine  Althea 
of  Richard  Lovelace  was  Lucy  Sachev- 
crell,  called  by  the  poet,  "  Lucretia." 

"  When  lo\  e  with  unconflned  win^rs 
Hovels  within  my  gates, 
Anil  my  divine  Althea  brings 
To  whi.sper  at  my  grates." 

The  "grates"  referred  to  were  the 
prison  grates.  Lovelace  was  thrown 
into  prison  by  the  Long  Parliament  for 
his  petition  from  Kent  in  favour  of  the 
king. 

Altisido'ra  (in  the  ' '  Curious  Imper- 
tinent "),  au  episode  in  JJon  Qnixote. 

Altis.  The  plot  of  ground  on  which 
the  Greeks  held  their  ijublic  games. 

Alto  relle'vo.  Italian  for  "  high 
relief."  A  term  used  in  sculpture  for 
figures  in  wood,  stone,  mai'ble,  etc.,  so 
cut  as  to  project  at  least  one-half  from 
the  tablet.     It  should  be  riliero  (3  syl.). 

Alumbra'do,  a  perfectionist  ;  so 
called  from  a  Spanish  sect  which  arose 
in  lo7o.  and  claimed  .special  illumination. 
(Spanish,  meaning  "illuminated,"  "en- 
lightened "). 

Alvina  Weeps,  or  "Hark!  Alvina 
weeps,"  i.e.  the  wind  liowls  loudly, 
a  Flemish  saying.  Alvina  was  the 
daughter  of  a  king,  who  was  cursed 
by   her    parents    because    she    married 


Alyface 


39 


Amasis 


unsuitably.  From  that  day  she  roamed 
about  the  air  invisible  to  the  eye  of  mau, 
but  her  moans  are  audible. 

Alyface  (Aiiiiot),  servant  of  Dame 
Christian  Custance,  the  gay  widow,  iu 
Udall's  comedy  Italph  Jioister  Dointcr, 

Alzirdo  (in  Orfni/do  Fiiriosd).  King 
of  Trem'izcn,  iu  Africa.  He  was  over- 
thrown by  Orlando  on  his  way  to  join 
the  allied  army  of  Ag'ramant. 

A.M.  or  M.A.  When  the  Latin  form 
is  iuteudeil  the  A  comes  first,  as  ArtiKin 
Magister ;  but  where  the  English  form 
is  meant  the  M  precedes,  as  Master  of 
A  tin. 

Am'adis  of  Gaul.  The  hero  of  a 
romance  in  prose  of  the  same  title, 
originally  written  in  Portuguese  in  four 
books.  These  four  were  translated  into 
Spanish  by  Montalvo,  who  added  a  fifth. 
Subsequent  romancers  added  the  ex- 
ploits and  adventures  of  other  knights, 
so  as  to  swell  the  romance  to  fourteen 
books.  The  French  vei'sion  is  much 
larger  still,  one  containing  twenty-four 
books,  and  another  running  through 
seven  volumes.  The  original  author 
was  Vasco  de  Lobeira,  of  Oporto,  who 
died  1403. 

The  /tiro,  called  the  "Lion-knight," 
from  the  device  on  his  shield,  and  ''Bel- 
teuebros  "  {darkh/  hcaHtifiil),  from  his 
personal  appearance,  was  a  love-child 
of  Perion,  King  of  Gaid,  and  Elizena, 
Princess  of  Brittany.  He  is  represented 
as  a  poet  and  musician,  a  linguist  and  a 
gallant,  a  knight-errant  and  a  king,  the 
vcrj'  model  of  chivalry. 

Other  names  by  wliich  Am'adis  was 
called  were  the  Lovch/  Obscure,  the 
Knir/ht  of  the  Bitrniiuj  Sword,  the 
Knight  of  the  I)uarf,  etc.  Bernardo,  iu 
1.560,  wrote  "  Amadigi  di  Gaula." 

Am'adis  of  Greece.  A  supjilo- 
mental  part  of  the  romance  called 
A  III' ad  is  of  Gaul,  added  by  Felicia'no 
de  Silva. 

Amai'mon  (3  syl.).  One  of  the  chief 
devils  whoso  dominion  is  on  the  north 
side  of  the  infernal  gulf.  He  might  be 
bound  or  restrained  from  doinghurtfrom 
the  third  hour  till  noon,  and  from  the 
ninth  hour  till  evening. 

"  AirainioM  soiinds  \\iA\  ■  Liicifor  well." 
Shaki'trmn- :  Meirij  ICeccs  uf  Wlndsiir,  ii.  2. 

-  Amal'fitan  Code.  A  compilation  of 
maritime  laws,  compiled  in  the  eleventh 
century  at  Amalti,  then  an  important 
trading  town. 

Ama^liVaca,      A-u  American    spirit. 


who  had  seven  daughters.  He  broke 
their  legs  to  prevent  their  running  away, 
and  left  them  to  people  the  forests. 

Amalthaea.  {See  Sibylline  Books.) 

Amalthe'a's  Horn.  The  comucojiia 
or  horn  of  plenty.  The  infant  Zeus 
was  fed  with  goats'  milk  by  Amalthca, 
one  of  the  daughters  of  Melisseus,  King 
of  Crete.  Zeus,  in  gratitude,  broke  off 
one  of  the  goat's  homs,  and  gave  it  to 
Amalthea,  promising  that  the  possessor 
should  always  have  iu  abundance  eveiy- 
thing  desired.     {Sec  iEais.) 

Amanda,  the  impersonation  of  love 
in  Thomson's  Spring,  is  Miss  Young, 
afterwards  married  ito  Admiral  Camp- 
bell. 

Am'arant.  A  cruel  giant  slain  by 
Guy  of  Warwick. — Guy  and  Aniarant, 

I'ereg's  lieliqiies. 

Am'aranth.     Clement  of  Alexandria 

says — Aiiiaraiitas  Jtos,  si/iii'/jo/uiii  est  i>ii- 
worialita'tis.  The  word  is  from  the 
Greek  aniaran'tus  (everlasting) .  So  called 
because  its  flowers  never  fade  like  other 
flowers,  but  retain  to  the  last  much  of 
their  deep  blood-red  colour. 

"  Iiiiiiiiirtiil  aiiiaiaiit— a  tlciwer  wliirli  once 
In  I'araclisc,  fast  by  tlie  tiee  of  life, 
Bi'L'an  to  lilooiii  ;  but  soon,  for  man's  offence. 
To  heaven  removed,  wliere  first  it  b'rew,  there 

t'rows 
And  flowers  aloft,  shading  the  fount  of  life.  . .  . 
With  these,  that  never  fade,  the  siiirits  elect 
Bind  Iheir  residendent  locks." 

Miltdii :  I'liradise  Lost  iii.  ajS-Gl. 

V  In  1653  Christina,  Queen  of  Sweden, 
iu.stituted  the  Order  of  the  "Knights  of 
the  Amaranth,"  but  it  ceased  to  exist 
at  the  death  of  the  Queen.  Ajuong  the 
ancients  it  was  the  sj^mbol  of  immor- 
tality. 

The  best  known  sjoecies  are  "Love 
lies  bleeding"  {amarantus  cai(ddtus), 
and  "Prince's  feather  "  {amarantus  hy- 
pochondriaeus).  "Cock's  comb"  is 
now  ranked  under  the  genus  Celosia. 

Amaryllis.  A  pastoral  sweetheart. 
The  name  is  borrowed  from  the  pastorals 
of  Theocritos  and  Virgil. 

"To  sport  with  Amaryllis  in  the  shade." 

Milton :  Lijcidtis,  6."*. 

Amasis  {Ring  of) ,  same  as  Polycrates' 
Ring.  Pol3'crates,  tyrant  of  Samos,  was 
so  fortunate  in  everything  that  Amasis, 
King  of  Egypt,  advised  him  to  part 
with  something  which  he  highly  prized. 
Polycrates  accordingly  threw  into  the 
sea  an  engraved  ring  of  extraordinary 
value.  A  few  days  afterwards,  a  fish 
was  presented  to  the  tyrant,  iu  which 
the  ring  was  found.  Amasis  now  re- 
nounced all  friendship  with  Polycrates, 


Amati 


40 


Arabi-dexter 


as  a  man  doomed  by  the  gods  ;  and  not 
long  afterwards,  a  satrap,  lia\'iug  en- 
trapped the  too  fortunate  despot,  put 
him  to  death  hy  cmcifixio'a.— Herodotus, 
iii.  40. 

Amati.  A  first-rate  violin ;  properlj', 
one  made  by  Ama'ti  of  Cremona  {c,  IGOO). 
(iSVr  Ceemona.) 

Amaurot  (Greek,  the  shadowy  or 
unknown  place),  the  chief  city  in  Utopia 
(no-place),  a  political  novel  by  Sir 
Thomas  More.  Rabelais,  in  his  I'aiita- 
qrnvl,  had  previously  introduced  the 
"word,  and  tells  us  tliat  the  Amaurots 
conquered  the  Dipsodes  (or  Duplicians). 

Amaurote,  a  bridge  in  Utopia.  Sir 
Thomas  More  says  he  could  not  recollect 
whether  Raphael  Hyghloday  told  him 
it  was  500  paces  or  300  paces  long  ;  and 
he  requested  his  friend  Peter  Giles,  of 
Antwerp,  to  put  the  question  to  the 
adventurer. 

"  I  cannot  recollect  wlietlier  the  reception  room 
of  tlie  Spaniard's  Castle  in  the  Air  is  I'Oo  or  .Too 
feet  Ions.  I  will  get  the  next  aeronaut  -nbo 
journevs'to  tbe  moon  to  take  the  exact  dimen- 
sions for  me,  and  will  memorialise  tbe  learned 
society  of  Laputa. "—iienw ,S'tc//t ;  GuUivcr'sTraL-elg. 

Amazement.  Hot  nfraid  u-ith  any 
amiiznnvnt  (1  Peter  iii.  6),  introduced  at 
the  close  of  the  marriage  service  in  the 
Book  of  Common  Prayer.  The  mean- 
ing is,  you  will  be  God's  children  so  long 
as  j'ou  do  his  bidding,  and  are  not 
drawn  aside  by  any  distraction  (n-TorjTis). 
No  doubt  St.  Peter  meant  "by  any 
terror  of  persecution."  Cranmer,  being 
so  afraid,  was  drawn  aside  from  the 
path  of  duty. 

Amazia,  meant  for  Charles  II.,  in 
Pordage's  poem  of  Azar'xa  and  Ilitshai. 
We  are  told  by  the  poet,  "  his  father's 
murtherers  he  destroyed;  "  and  then  he 
preposterously  adds — 

"  Beloved  of  all,  for  merciful  was  he, 
Like  God,  in  tlie  superlative  degree." 

To  say  that  such  a  selfish,  promise- 
breaking,  impious  libertine  was  "like 
God,  in  the  superlative  degree,"  is  an 
outrage  against  even  poetical  liceucc  aud 
court  flattery. 

Am'azon.  A  horsewoman,  a  fighting 
or  masculine  woman.  The  word  means 
uitlioid  breast,  or  rather,  "deprived  of 
a  pap."  According  to  Grecian  story, 
there  was  a  nation  of  women  in  Africa 
of  a  very  warlike  character.  There 
were  no  men  in  the  nation ;  and  if  a 
boy  was  born,  it  was  either  killed  or 
sent  to  his  father,  who  lived  in  some 
neighbouring  state.     The  girls  had  their 


right  breasts  burnt  off,  that  they  might 
the  better  di-aw  the  bow. 

"  These  dreadful  Amazons,  gallant  viragoes  who 
.  .  .  carried  victorious  arms  .  .  .  into  Syria  aud 
Asia  Minor."—./.  E.  VliambUss:  Viivid  Livingstone 
(Introduction,  p.  '24). 

Amazo'nia.  In  South  America,  ori- 
ginally called  Mar'anon'.  The  Spaniards 
first  called  it  Orella'na ;  but  after  the 
women  joined  their  husbands  in  at- 
tacking the  invaders,  the  Spaniards 
called  the  people  Amazons  and  the 
country  Amazonia. 

Amazonian  Chin  (Ait).  A  beardless 
chin,  like  that  of  a  woman  warrior. 

"  When  with  his  Amazonian  chin  he  drove 
Tlic  hrisllcd  lips  before  him." 

filuikci'iieare  :  Coriulaiius,  ii.  i'. 

Ambassador,  a  practical  joke  played 
on  greenhorns  aboard  shijj.  A  tub  full 
of  water  is  placed  between  two  stools, 
aud  the  whole  being  covered  with  a 
green  cloth,  a  sailor  sits  on  each  stool, 
to  keep  the  cloth  tight.  The  two 
sailors  represent  Neptune  and  Am  phi- 
trite,  and  the  greenhorn,  as  ambassador, 
is  introduced  to  their  majesties.  He  is 
given  the  seat  of  honour  between  them  ; 
but  no  sooner  does  he  take  his  seat  than 
the  two  sailors  rise,  and  the  greenhorn 
falls  into  the  tub,  amidst  the  laughter 
of  the  whole  crew. 

Am'ber.  This  fossilised  vegetable 
resin  is,  according  to  legend,  a  con- 
cretion of  birds'  tears.  Tlie  birds  were 
the  sisters  of  Meleuger,  who  never  ceased 
weeping  for  the  death  of  their  brother. — 
OvUl :  Metamorphoses,  viii.  hne  270,  etc. 

"Around  thee  shall  glisten  the  loveliest  amher 
That  ever  the  sorrowing  sea-)ii:il  bath  wept." 
T.  Moore:  Fire  Worshippers. 

Amber,  a  repository.  So  called  be- 
cause insects  and  small  leaves  are  pre- 
served in  amber. 

"Vou  may  he  disposed  to  preserve  it  in  your 
amber." — Xotes  and  Queries. — W.  Dmee. 
"  Pretty  !  in  amher,  to  observe  tbe  forms 
Of  hairs,  or  straws,  or  dirt,  or  grubs,  nr  worms, 
The  things,  we  know,  are  neither  rich  nor  rare, 
But  wonder  how  the  devil  they  got  there." 

Pope  :  Ep.  to  Arbuthiiut,  Ki'J-?:!. 

Amberabad'.  Amber- city,  one  of 
the  towns  of  Jinuistau,  or  Fairy  Land. 

Ambes'-as  or  Ambes-aee.  Two  aces, 
the  lowest  tlirow  in  dice ;  figuratively, 
bad  luck.  (Latin,  ambo-asses,  both  or 
two  aces.) 

"1  had  rather  be  in  this  choice  than  throw 
ames-ace  for  my  life."— .l//'s  He//, etc.,  ii.  3. 

Ambi-dexter  properly  means  both 
hands  right  hands  ;  a  double  dealer ;  a 
juror  who  takes  money  from  both  parties 
for  his  verdict ;  one  who  can  use  his 
left  hand  as  deftly  as  his  right. 


Ambition 


41 


Amenthes 


Ambition,  strictly  speaking,  means 
"  the  going  from  house  to  house  "  (Latin, 
ambitio,  going  about  canvassing).  In 
Rome  it  was  customary,  some  time 
before  an  election  came  on,  for  the  can- 
didates to  go  round  to  the  diflfereut 
dwellings  to  solicit  votes,  and  those 
who  did  so  were  ambitious  of  office. 

Ambree  {Muri/).  An  English  heroine, 
who  has  immortalised  her  name  by  her 
valour  at  the  siege  of  Ghent,  in  loSi. 
Her  name  is  a  proverbial  one  for  a 
woman  of  heroic  spirit. 

"  My  ilaut'bter  will  )>c  valiant, 
And  prove  a  very  Mary  Aniliry  i'  the  business." 
Beit  Jonsoit :  Tale  of  a  Tub,  i.  4. 

Ambrose  (Sf.),  represented  in  Chris- 
tian art  in  the  costume  of  a  bishop. 
His  attributes  arc  (1)  a  bce-hivc,  in 
allusion  to  the  legend  that  a  swarm  of 
bees  settled  on  his  mouth  Avhen  lying  in 
his  cradle ;  (2)  a  scourge,  by  which  he 
expelled  the  Arians  from  Italy. 

Tlie  jienaiire  he  inflicted  on  the  Empei'm"  The(V 
dosins  has  lieen  represented  by  Rubens,  a  ocipy 
ijf  which,  hy  Vandyck,  is  in  the  National  Gallery. 

Ambro'sia.  The  food  of  the  gods 
(Greek,  a  privative,  brotos,  mortal);  so 
called  because  it  made  them  not  mortal, 
I.e.  it  made  them  immortal.  Anj'thiug 
'  delicious  to  the  taste  or  fragrant  in 
perfume  is  so  called  from  the  notion 
that  whatever  is  used  by  the  celestials 
must  be  excellent. 

"  A  table  where  the  heaped  ambrosia  lay." 

Ilomir,  hii  Bniniit:  (Miissri/,  v.  line  1-11. 

"  Husband  and  wife  must  drink  from  tlie  cup  of 

conjufral  life  ;  but  they  n)ust  boih  taste  the  same 

ambrosia,  (U-   the    same  f-'all."— /f.    V.  Jlowjiitun : 

H'oMOi  oj  the  Orient,  part  iii. 

Ambrosian  Chant.  The  choral 
music  introduced  from  the  Eastern  to  the 
Western  Church  by  St.  Ambrose,  the 
Bishop  of  Mil'an,  in  the  fourth  century. 
It  was  used  till  Gregory  i/ie  Great 
changed  it  for  the  Gregorian. 

Ambro'sian  Library.  A  library  in 
Mil'an,  so  called  in  compliment  of  St. 
Ambrose,  tlie  patron  saint. 

Ambrosio,  the  hero  of  Lewis's  ro- 
mance, called  T}ie  Monk.  Abbot  of  the 
Capuchins  at  Madrid.  The  temptations 
of  Matilda  overcome  his  virtue,  and  he 
proceeds  from  ciime  to  crime,  till  at  last 
he  sells  his  soul  to  the  devil.  Ambrosio, 
being  condemned  to  death  by  the  In- 
quisition, is  released  by  Lucifer  ;  but  no 
sooner  is  he  out  of  prison  than  he  is 
dashed  to  pieces  on  a  rock. 

Am'bry,  a  cupboard,  locker,  or  recess. 
In  church,  for  keejiing  vestments,  books, 
or  other  articles.  Used  by  a  confusion 
for  (dnionrij,  or  niche  in  the  wall  where 


alms,  etc.,  were  deposited.  Now  used 
for  holding  the  sacramental  plate,  con- 
secrated oil,  and  so  on.  The  secret 
drawers  of  an  escritoire  are  called  am- 
bries. (Archaic  English  almarij,  Latin 
(iniKviitiii,  French  annoirc.) 

"  Thcr  avarice  hath  almaries. 
And  yren-bounden  cofres.'' 

Piers  I'liiiitjUman,  p.  'JS8. 

Ah)wnrij  is  from  the  Latin  clcemosyn- 
(iri/iiii.  a  place  for  alms. 

"The  place  wherein  this  Chapel  or  Almshouse 
stands  was  called  the  '  Klemosinary  '  or  Aluionr.v, 
now  corrupted  into  Anihrey,  for  that  the  alms  of 
the  Alibey  are  tliere  distributed  to  the  poor."— 
.s'toic ;  Surveij. 

Ambusca'de  (3  syl.)  is  the  Italian 
iiiibonca'ta  (concealed  in  a  wood). 

Ame  damnee  (French),  a  scape-goat. 

"He  is  the  ame  damnfe  of  everyone  about  the 
court— the  scapegoat,  who  is  to  carry  away  all 
Iheir  iniquities."— Sir  Walter  Scott:  Ptveril  of  the 
Vciilc,  chap.  48. 

Amedieu  (3  syl.).  "  Friends  of 
God  ;  "  a  religious  body  in  the  Church 
of  Rome,  founded  in  1400.  They  wore 
no  breeches,  but  a  grey  cloak  girded 
with  a  cord,  and  were  shod  with  wooden 
shoes. 

Amelia.  A  model  of  conjugal  affec- 
tion, in  Fielding's  novel  so  called.  It  is 
said  that  the  character  is  intended  foi 
his  own  wife. 

Amelon.  A  Chaldean  hero,  who 
reigned  thirteen  sares.  A  sare=:  3,000 
years. — Banicr  :  Mijthologij,  vol.  i. 

Anienon  is  another  hero  of  Chalden,  who 
reijrnrd  1:;  sares.    Amphis  reigned  0  sares. 

Amen  Corner,  London,  the  end  of 
Paternoster  Row,  where  the  monks 
finished  their  Pater  Xonfer,  on  Corjms 
Christi  Day,  as  they  went  in  procession 
to  St.  Paul's  Cathedral.  They  began  in 
Ptitemoster  Row  with  the  Lord's  prayer 
in  Latin,  which  was  continued  to  the 
end  of  the  street ;  then  said  Amen,  at 
the  corner  or  bottom  of  the  Row  ;  tlien 
tuniiug  down  Ave-Maria  Lane,  com- 
menced chanting  the  "  Hail,  Mary  I  " 
then  crossing  Ludgate,  they  chanted  the 
Credo.     Amen  Ltine  no  longer  exists. 

Amende  honorable,  in  France, 
was  a  degrading  punishment  inflicted 
on  traitors,  parricides,  and  sacrilegious 
persons,  who  were  brought  into  court 
with  a  rope  round  their  neck,  and  made 
to  beg  pardon  of  God,  the  king,  aud  the 
court. 

Now  the  public  acknowledgment  of 
the  offence  is  all  that  is  required. 

Amen'thes  (3  syl.).  The  Egyptian 
Hades.     The  word  means  Jiiduig -place. 


American  Flag 


42 


Amina 


American  Flag.  The  American 
Congress  resolved  (Juno  14,  1777),  that 
the  flag  of  the  United  States  should 
liave  thirteen  stripes,  alternately  red 
and  white,  to  represent  the  thirteen 
States  of  the  Union,  together  with 
tliirteen  white  stars,  ou  a  blue  ground. 
General  Washington's  escutcheon  con- 
tained two  stripes,  each  alternated  with 
red  and  white,  and,  like  the  American 
stars,  those  of  the  General  liad  only  five 
points  instead  of  six.  A  new  star  is 
now  added  for  each  new  State,  but  the 
stripes  remain  the  same. 

Hiiwevor,  before  tlie  seimratiim  t)ie  fla.tr  cim- 
taiiied  fliirtc-en  sfriiirs  of  alfcrnaie  rcil  and  whitr 
to  iiidii-atf  the  tlnrtceii  colonies:  and  ilie  Kast 
India  Comiianv  tlai;,  as  far  hack  as  17ol,  had  tliir- 
teen sfi-iiies.  The  Company  tla?.'  was  cantoned 
■with  St.  (Jeori-'e's  Cross,  tile  lirilish  Aineiicau 
tlai,'  with  the  Union  Jack. 

American  Peculiarities : — 

Kalives  of  New  KnKland      ..        ..  siiy  Guess. 

„  N.  York  &  Middle  States  „    Kx]vet. 

„  Southern  Stales ..        ..  „    Reckon. 

„  Western  States  ..        ..  „    Calculate. 

American  States.  The  Americans 
are  rich  in  nicknames.  Every  state  has, 
or  has  had,  its  sobriquet.  The  people 
of 

Alabavia         ..  are  lizards. 

Ari-am-ax         ..  „  toothpicks 

Califoniia       ..  „  f-'old-lumlers. 

Colorado          ..  „  rovers. 

Covnecticut     ..  „  wooden  nutmegs. 

Delaware         ..  „  innsk  rats. 

Florida  ..       ••  „  H.v-np-the-cieeks. 

Geoniia  ■•       ..  „  Imx/.ards. 

Illinois  ..        ..  „  Slickers. 

Indiana.-       ..  „  lioosiers. 

Iowa       ..        ..  „  hawk-eyes. 

Kansas..       ..  „  jay -hawkers. 

Kentiickii        ••  i,  corn-crackers. 

Louisiana        .  -  „  Creoles. 

Maine    •-        ••  ,,  foxes. 

M'lrj/laiid        ..  „  craw-thtinipers. 

Michiijan         ..  „  wolverines. 

Minnesota       ..  ,,  gophers. 

Migsissijipi     . .  „  taclpnles. 

Missouri         ..  „  ptikes. 

Nebraska         ..  „  Ims-eaters. 

Nevada...        ..  „  saire-hens. 

New  Hampshire  ,,  frranite-hoys. 

New  ./ersey      ..  „  Bines  ec  claiii-eatchers. 

New  Vorl;,        ..  „  knickerbockers. 

North  Carolina  „  tar-hoilers  or  Tuekoes. 

Ohio        ..         -.  ,,  buck-eyes. 

Oregon   ..       ..  „  web-feet  «r  liard  cases. 

renmsylvania  . .  „  Pennainites  or  LeatUer- 

lieads. 

lihode  Island  ■■  „  gun-flints. 

tiotdh  Carolina  „  weasels. 

Tennessee        ••  ,,  whelps. 

Texas      ..        ■■  „  beef-heads. 

Vermont          ..  „  green-iucjuiitaiu  boys. 

I  Virginia          ••  ,,  beadies. 

Wisconsin       ..  „  badgers. 

American  States.  The  eight  states 
which  retain  the  Indian  names  of  the 
chief  rivers,  as :  Alabama,  Arkansas, 
Illinois,  Kentucky,  Mississippi,  Missouri, 
Ohio,  and  Wisconsin. 

Ameth'ea.     {See  Horse.) 
Amethyst.    A  species  of  rock-crystal 
sujiposed      to      prevcut      iiitoxicatiou 


(Greek,  ri-iiiei/iu.sta,  the  antidote  of  in- 
toxication). Drinking-cups  made  of 
amethyst  were  supposed  to  be  a  charm 
against  inebriety. 

•.•  It  was  the  most  cherished  of  all 
precious  stones  by  Roman  matrons, 
from  the  superstition  that  it  wouhl 
preserve  inviolate  the  affection  of  their 
husbands. 

Amiable  Numbers.  {Sec  Amicable, 
etc.) 

Amicable  Numbers.  Numbers 
which  are  mutually  equal  to  the  sum 
of  all  their  aliquot  j.arts :  as  220,  284. 
The  aliquot  parts  of  220  are  1,  2,  4,  5, 
10,  11,  20,  22,  44,  55,  110,  the  sum  of 
which  is  284.  Again,  the  aliipiot  parts 
of  284  are  I,  2,  4,  71,  142,  the  sum  of 
which  is  220. 

Amicus  cu'riae  (Latin,  a  friend  to 
the  eourt).  One  in  the  court  who  in- 
forms the  jiulge  of  some  eiTor  he  has 
detected,  or  makes  some  suggestion  to 
assist  tlie  court. 

Aoii'eHs  ri((io,  .led  itiae/i.t  aini'en  J'er'iteis 
(Plato  I  love,  but  I  love  Truth  more). 
A  noble  dictum  attributed  to  Aristotle, 
but  certainly  a  very  free  translation 
of  a  phrase  in  the  yieomaehe'nn  Etliie.s 
(''  Where  both  are  friends,  it  is  light  to 
11  refer  Truth  "). 

Am'iel  (o  syl.).  A  form  of  the  name 
Eliam  {friend  of  God).  In  Dryden's 
siitire  of  Absalom  and  Aehitophel  it 
is  meant  for  Sir  Edwtird  Seymour, 
Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons.  (2 
Sam.  xxii.  34.) 

"  Who  can  Aniiel's  praise  refuse? 
Of  ancient  lace  liy  birth,  liut  nobler  yet 
In  his  own  worth,  and  without  title  great. 
The  Sanhedrim  long  time  as  chief  he  ruled, 
Their  reason  guided  and  their  passion  cooled." 
Dri/dcn,:  .ibsaloni  and  Aehitophel,  i.  8119-903. 

Amiens  (3  syl.).  17ie  Feace  of 
Amiens,  March  27,  1802,  a  treaty  signed 
by  Joseph  Bonaparte,  the  Marquis  of 
Cornwtillis,  Azara,  and  Schimmelpen- 
ninck,  to  settle  the  disputed  points 
between  France,  England,  Spain,  and 
Holland.     It  was  dissolved  in  1803. 

Ami'na.  An  orphan  adopted  by  a 
miller,  and  beloved  by  Elvi'no,  a  rich 
farmer.  The  night  before  her  espousals 
she  is  found  in  the  bed  of  Count  Eo- 
dolpho,  and  is  renounced  by  her  be- 
trothed husband.  The  count  explains 
to  the  J'oung  farmer  and  his  friends  that 
Ami'na  is  innocent,  and  has  wandered 
in  her  sleep.  While  he  is  still  talking, 
the  oiphan  is  seen  getting  out  of  the 
window  of  the  mill,  and  walking  in  her 
sleep  along  the  edge  of  the  roof  under 


Aminadab 


43 


Ampersand 


which  the  mill  wheel  is  rapidly  revolving. 
She  crosses  a  crazy  bridge,  and  comes 
among  the  spectators.  In  a  few  niimites 
she  awakes,  flies  to  Elvi'uo,  and  is 
claimed  by  him  as  his  beloved  and  inno- 
cent bride. — Ilc/lini''s  best  upcvd^  La 
Hiinnumhida. 

Amin'adab.  A  Quaker.  The  Scrip- 
ture name  has  a  doulile  ;;/,  but  in  old 
comedies,  where  the  character  represents 
a  Quaker,  the  name  has  generally  only 
one.  Obadiah  is  used,  also,  to  signify  a 
Quaker,  and  llachcl  a  Quakeress. 

Amine  (3  syl.).  Wife  of  Sidi  Nou- 
man,  who  ate  her  rice  with  a  bodkin, 
and  was  iu  fact  a  ghoul.  "  She  was  so 
hard-hearted  that  she  led  about  her 
three  sisters  like  a  leash  of  grej'houuds." 
— Arabian  Nights. 

Aminte  (2  syl.).  The  name  assumed 
bj^  Cathos  as  more  aristocratic  than  her 
own.  She  is  courted  by  a  gentleman, 
but  discards  him  because  his  manneis 
are  too  simple  and  easy  for  "  bon  ton  ;  " 
he  then  sends  his  valet,  who  ])retends  to 
be  a  raaiquis,  and  Aminte  is  charmed 
with  his  "  distinguished  style  of  manners 
and  talk."  When  the  game  has  gone 
far  enough,  the  trick  is  exposed,  and 
Aminte  is  saved  from  a  mesalliance. — 
Molivrc  :  Lcs  Frevicnscs  liidiciih's. 

It  was  a  in-evailin'-r  fasliinn  in  tlip  5Iiilillo 
A.u'es  ti)  rliaii'-'e  names  -.  Vnltairc's  priircf  iiMiiic 
was  AriiiiH  (lfti-l-17rsi  ;  .Alchuntlinirs  \\:\^S<-Uir,,i- 
Zi-ri1e  (14!ir-l.Viii).  The  real  names  nf  Desidi  litis 
Erasmus  were  Gheriurd  Gheniird  (l-U'l-lXm  ; 
AnacLiarsis  rlootz  was  Jean  Biiytisle  Clootz,  etc. 

Am'iral  or  AmmiraJ.  An  early 
form  of  the  word  "  admiral."  (French, 
aiiiiral ;  It'dlmn,  aiJU)iirai/lio.)  (AVr  Ad- 
miral.) 

Ainlet  (Ricliard).  The  gamester  in 
Vimbrugh's  drama  called  The  Con- 
J'l'drracij. 

Arn'mon.  The  Libyan  Juj)iter ;  so 
called  from  the  Greek  ammos  (sand), 
because  his  temple  was  in  the  desert. 
Herodotus  calls  it  an  Egyptian  woi'd 
(ii.  42). 

So))  of  Jupiter  A)))moi).  Alexander  the 
Great.  His  father,  Philip,  claimed  to 
be  a  descendant  of  Hercules,  and  there- 
fore of  Jupiter  ;  and  the  sou  was  saluted 
by  the  priests  of  the  Libyan  temple  as 
son  of  Amnion.  Hence  was  he  called 
the  son  or  descendant  both  of  Jupiter 
and  of  Ammou. 

Ammonian  Hern  (The),  the  cornu- 
copia. It  was  in  reality  a  tract  of  very 
fertile  land,  in  the  shape  of  a  ram's  horn, 
given  by  Amnion,  King  of  Libya,  to  his 


mistress,  Amalthea  (q.v.)  (the  mother  of 
Bacchus). 

Am'monites  (3  syl.).  Fossif  )))o/t)isrs 
allied  to  the  nautilus  and  cuttlefish. 
So  called  because  they  resemlile  the 
horn  upon  the  ancient  statues  of  Jupiter 
Ammon.     {See  above.) 

A'mon's  Son  (in  OrIa))do  Farioso) 
is  Einaldo.  He  was  the  eldest  son  of 
Anion  or  Aymon,  Marquis  d'Este,  and 
nephew  of  Charlemagne. 

Am'cret,  brought  up  by  Venus  in  the 
courts  of  love.  She  is  the  type  of  female 
loveliness— young,  handsome,  gay,  witty, 
and  good  ;  soft  as  a  rose,  sweet  as  a 
violet,  chaste  as  a  lily,  gentle  as  a  dove, 
loving  everybody  and  by  all  beloved. 
She  is  no  Diana  to  make  '"  gods  and  men 
fear  h(  r  stern  frown  "  ;  no  Minerva  to 
"  freeze  her  foes  into  congealed  stone 
with  rigid  looks  of  chaste  austerity  "  ; 
but  a  living,  breathuig  virgin,  with  a 
warm  heart,  and  beaming  ej'e,  and  jias- 
sions  strong,  and  all  that  man  can  wish 
and  woman  want.  She  becomes  the 
loving,  tender  wife  of  Sir  Scu'damore. 
Tim'ias  finds  her  in  the  arms  of  Cor- 
flambo  {f<e))>i)tal  paxsio)))  ;  combats  the 
monster  inisuccessfully,  but  wounds  the 
lady. — Sj::c))ier:  Feurij  f,«6' ■«,  book  iii. 

Amcret,  a  love-song,  love-knot,  love- 
affair,  love  personified.  A  jrctty  word, 
which  might  be  reintroduced. 

'•He  will  be  in  liis  aiiinrefs,  ami  liis  canzoiirls, 
liis  pastiirals,  and  liis  niailrigals."— /yii/uwin*  ; 
Luve's  Mistress. 

"  For  not  iciadde  In  silke  was  lip, 
But  all  iu  flouiis  and  tlourettes, 
1-1'aint'uI  all  witli  anioretie.s." 

Uoiiiiince  of  the  Hoee,  SfC. 

Amorous  ( The).  Philippe  I.  of  France  ; 
so  called  because  he  divorced  his  wife 
Berthe  to  espouse  Bertrade,  who  was 
already  married  to  Foulques,  count  of 
Anjou.     (1061-1108.) 

Amour  propre.  One's  sclf-lcve, 
vanity,  or  opinion  of  what  is  due  to  self. 
To  Diake  ait  appeal  to  owc'.s-  aiiioiir  propir, 
is  to  put  a  jierson  on  his  metal.  To 
tcotoxl  o))e's  a))ioiir  propre,  is  to  gall  his 
good  opinion  of  himself — to  wound  his 
vanity.     (French.) 

Ampa'ro  de  Pobres.  A  book  ex- 
posing the  begging  impostors  of  Madrid, 
written  by  Herrera,  physician  to  Felipe 
III. 

Ampersand,  the  character  made 
thus,  "  &  "  =  and.  In  the  old  Horn- 
books, after  givingthe  twenty-six  letters, 
the  character  &  was  added,  and  was 
called   "Ampersand,"   a  corruption   of 


Amphialus 


44 


Amundeville 


"and  per-se   &"   (aud  by  itself,  and). 
A  B  C  D   .    .    .    .    X  Y  Z  &. 

"  Any  oilil  slmio  fulks  understaud 
To  mean  inv  rroti'an  amiier/.anil." 

Puiicli  (17  Aiail,  iNtm,  p.  153,  col.  '-'). 
The  martyr  Brailfcjrd,  says  Lonl  Russell,  was 
"  A   i>er  se  A  "  willi  Iliem,  "  to  their  coiniort," 
etc.— i.e.  stood  alone  in  their  defence. 

Amphialus,  son  of  Cecropia,  in  love 
witli  I'hiloclca  .  but  he  ultimately 
married  Ciueeu  Helen  of  Corinth. — AVr 
riiUip  Sidtu'i/:  The  Countess  of  Teiii- 
bro/ic's  Arcadia. 

Amphictyon'ic  Council.  A  council 
of  confederate  Greeks  from  twelve  of 
their  trilics,  each  of  which  had  two 
deputies.  The  council  met  twice  a  year 
— in  the  spring  at  Delphi,  and  in  the 
autumn  at  Thermop'ylse.  According  to 
fable,  it  was  so  called  from  Amphic'tyon, 
son  of  Deuca'lion,  its  supposed  founder. 
(Greek,  amp/iictioiies,  dwellers  round 
about.) 

Amphig'ons.  "Words  strung  together 
without  any  real  connection.  The  two 
])leaders  in  Faiitae/rael  by  Rabelais  (book 
ii.  c.  11-13)  give  au  excellent  example. 

Amphigouri,  nonsense  verse,  rigma- 
role. 

"A  kind  of  overgrown  amphigonri,  a  hetero- 
geneous combination."— Qiiarter/i/  Review,   i.   30, 

rsijy.  ' 

V  Person's  "Three  Children  sliding 
on  the  Ice"  is  a  good  specimen  of 
amphigouri. 

Amphion is  said  to  have  built  Thebes 
by  the  nrusic  of  his  lute,  -which  was  so 
melodious  that  the  stones  danced  into 
walls  and  houses  of  their  own  accord. 
Tennyson  has  a  rhymuig./V»  d' esprit. 

Amphitri'te  (either  3  or  4  syl.).  The 
sea.  In  classic  mythology,  the  wife  of 
Neptune  (Greek,  'awplii-trio  for  tribo, 
rubbing  or  wearing  away  [the  shore]  on 
all  sides). 

"  Hi.-i  wearv  chariot  sought  the  bowers 
Of  Auiphitritcand  her  tending  nymiihs." 

Thomson:  Summer.    (IIJUS-O). 

Amphit'ryon.  Le  vvrltahle  Amphi- 
tryon est  rAinphitri/on  ouVon  dine  (Mo- 
liere).  That  is,  the  person  who  provides 
the  feast  (whether  master  of  the  house 
or  n"ot)  is  the  real  host.  The  tale  is  that 
Jupiter  assumed  the  likeness  of  Am- 
phit'ryon, and  gave  a  banquet  ;  but 
Amphitryon  himself  came  home,  and 
claimed  the  honour  of  being  the  master 
of  the  liouse.  As  far  as  the  servants 
and  guests  were  concerned,  the  dispute 
was  soon  decided—"  he  who  gave  the 
feast  was  to  them  the  host." 


Amphrysian  Prophetess  {Am- 
phrifsia  I'ates).  The  C'umtean  sibyl ;  so 
called  from  Amphrysos,  a  river  of 
Thessal}',  on  the  banks  of  which  Apollo 
fed  the  herds  of  Adme'tos  ;  consequently 
Amplaysian  means  Apollo'nian. 

Ampoulle  (Sainte).  The  jug  or 
bottle  containing  oil  used  in  anointing 
the  kings  of  France,  and  said  to  have 
been  brouglit  from  heaven  by  a  dove  for 
the  coronation  service  of  St.  Louis.  It 
was  preserved  at  Eheims  till  the  first 
Kevolutiou,  when  it  was  destroj'cd. 

Amram's  Son.  Moses.  (Exodus  vi. 
•20.) 

"  As  when  the  potent  rod 
Of  Amram's  son.  in  Egypt's  evil  day, 
AVa\  ed  round  the  coast.'' 

MillQ}! :  I'diadise  Lost,  i.  338-40. 

Amri,  in  the  satire  of  Absalom  and 
Achitophet,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  is 
designed  for  Heneage  Finch,  Earl  of 
Nottingham  and  Lord  Chancellor. 

"  Our  list  of  nobles  next  let  Amri  grace, 
Whose  merits   claimed   the  Ahethdiu's  {Lord 

ClKnicillnr's)  high  place- 
To  whom  the  double  blessing  does  belong. 
With  Moses'  inspiration,  Aaron's  tongue." 

Part  ii. 

Amri'ta.  The  elixir  of  immortality, 
made  by  clinrning  the  milk-sea  {Hindu 
miitholofiii).  Sir  William  Jones  speaks 
of  an  apple  so  called,  because  it  bestows 
immortality  on  those  who  partake  of  it. 
The   word  means   immortal.     {See  Am- 

BKOSIA.) 

Amsanc'tus.  A  lake  in  Italy,  in  the 
territory  of  Hirpi  num,  said  to  lead  down 
to  the  infernal  regions.  The  word  means 
sacred  water. 

Amuck'.  To  run  amuch.  To  talk  or 
write  on  a  subject  of  which  you  are 
wholly  ignorant ;  to  run  foul  of.  The 
Malaj's,  under  the  influence  of  opium, 
become  so  excited  that  they  sometimes 
rush  forth  with  daggers,  yelling  ^'Amoq  ! 
amoq  !  "  (Kill !  kill  !),  and  fall  foul  of 
any  one  they  chance  to  meet. 

"Satire's  my  weapon,  but  I'm  too  discreet 
To  run  amuck  and  tilt  at  all  I  meet." 

Pope:  Entires,  i.  0!)-70. 

Am'ulet.  Something  worn,  generally 
round  the  neck,  as  a  charm.  (Arabic, 
haDixlef,  that  which  is  suspended.) 

I'he  early  Christians  used  to  wear 
amulets  called  Ichthits,  fish;  the  word 
is  composed  of  the  initial  letters  of 
le'sos  CHristos  THeou  Uios  Soter  (Jesus 
Christ,  Son  of  God,  our  Saviour).     {See 

NOTARICA.) 

Amun'deville.  Zadi/  Adeline  Amun- 
derille,  a  lady  who  "  liad  a  twilight  tinge 
of  blue,"  could    make    ejiigrams,   give 


Amyclsean   Brothers 


Anah 


delightful  soirees,  aud  was  foud  of 
making  matches. — Byron  :  Dun  Jitan, 
XT.,  xvi. 

Amyclsean  Brothers  {Tlic).  C;istor 
and  Pollux,  who  were  born  at  Amyclas. 

Amyclse'an  Silence.  More  silent 
than  AiiiijcI(C.  The  inhabitants  of 
Amycke  were  so  often  alarmed  by  false 
rumours  of  the  approach  of  the  Spartans, 
that  they  made  a  decree  no  one  should 
ever  again  mention  the  subject.  When 
the  Spartans  actually  came  against  the 
town,  no  one  durst  mention  it,  and  the 
town  was  taken. 

Amyris  plays  the  fool,  i.e.  a  person 
assumes  a  false  character  with  an  ulterior 
object,  like  Junius  Brutus.  Amyris  was 
a  Sybarite  (3  syl.)  sent  to  Delphi  to 
consult  the  Oracle,  who  informed  hiui 
of  the  approaching  destruction  of  his 
nation.  Amyris  fled  to  Peloponnesus 
and  his  countrymen  called  him  a  fool ; 
but,  like  the  madness  of  David,  his 
' '  folly  "  was  true  wisdom,  for  thereby  he 
saved  his  life. 

A'mys  aud  Amyl'ion.    The  Py''adGs 

and  Ures'tes  of  mediaeval  story.  — 
Jilli.t's  Spcrijiiri/a. 

Anabaptists.  A  nickname  of  the 
Baptist  Dissenters ;  so  called  because, 
in  the  first  instances,  they  liad  been 
baptised  in  infancy,  and  were  again 
baptised  on  a  coufession  of  faith  in  adult 
age.    The  word  means  the  tic'tcc-haptiscd. 

Anabaptists.  A  sect  which  arose  in 
Germany  in  1521. 

Anachar'sls.  Anacliarsis  among  the 
Sci/tliianx.  A  wise  man  amongst  fools; 
"Good  out  of  Nazareth";  "A  Sir 
Sidney  Smith  on  Salisbury  Plani."  The 
opposite  proverb  is  "Saul  amongst  the 
Prophets,"  i.e.  a  fool  amongst  wise  men. 
Anacharsis  was  a  Scythian  by  bhlh,  and 
the  Scytliians  were  proverbial  for  their 
uncultivated  state  and  great  ignorance. 

Anacharsis  Clootz.  Baron  Jean  Bap- 
tiste  Clootz,  a  Prussian  by  birth,  but 
brought  up  in  Paris,  where  he  adopted 
the  revolutionary  principles,  and  called 
himself  Tlic  Orator  of  the  Hainan  Race. 
(1755-1794.) 

Anacleth'ra.  The  stone  on  which 
Ceres  rested  after  searching  in  vain  for 
her  daughter.  It  was  kept  as  a  sacred 
deposit  in  the  Prytane'um  of  Athens. 

Anac'reon.  A  Greek  poet,  who 
wrote  chiefly  in  praise  of  love  and  wine. 
(B.C.  503-178.) 

d'nwreon     of    the    Twelfth    Centanj. 


Walter  Mapes,  also  called  ' '  The  Jovial 
Toper."  (1L50-119C).  His  best-known 
piece  is  the  famous  drinking-song, 
"  Meum  est  propos'itum  in  taberua 
mori,"  translated  by  Leigh  Hunt. 

Anacreon  Moore.  Thomas  Moore,  who 
not  only  translated  Anacreon  into  Eng- 
lish, but  also  wrote  original  poems  in 
the  same  style.     (1779-1852.) 

Anacreon  of  the  Gudlotinc.  Bertrand 
Barere  de  Vieuzac,  president  of  the 
National  Convention  ;  so  called  from  the 
flowery  language  and  convivial  jests 
used  by  him  towards  his  miserable 
victims.     (1755-1811.) 

Anacreon  uf  the  Temple.  Guillaume 
Amfrye,  abbe  de  Chalieu  ;  the  "Tom 
Moore"  of  France.     (1039-1720.) 

The  French  Anacreon.  Pontus  do 
Tyard,  one  of  the  Pleiad  poets  (1521- 
1005).     P.  Laujon.     (1727-1811.) 

The  Persian  Anacreon.  Mohammed 
Hatiz.     (Fourteenth  century.) 

'The  Scotch  Anacreon.  Alexander 
Scot,  who  flourished  about  1550. 

The  Sicilian  Anacreon.  Giovanni  Meli. 
(1740-1815.) 

Anacreon  of  Painters.  Francesco 
Albano,  a  famous  painter  of  lovely 
females.     (1573- 1009.) 

Anacreontic.  In  imitation  of  Anac'- 
reon {q.c). 

Anach'ronism.  An  event  placed  at 
a  wrong  date ;  as  when  Shakespeare,  in 
Troilns  and  (Jressida,  makes  Nestor  quote 
Aristotle.  (Greeic,  ana  vhronos,  out  of 
time.) 

Anag'nostes  (Greek).  A  domestic 
servant  employed  by  the  wealthy 
Romans  to  read  to  them  at  meals. 
Charlemagne  had  his  reader ;  and  monks 
and  nuns  were  read  to  at  meals.  (Greek, 
anaginosko,  to  read.) 

Anagrams. 

l);itiie  Kleaiioi-  D:i\ie.5  (proplietess  in  the  reign 
uf  ('li:irle-!  IJ  =  jV(  ()(■)■  .so  mad  a  lady. 

<iiist:L\  us  —  Au<iti.'^Tns. 

Hcirati<j  Nelsiin  =  //ii»oc  est  aX(7o  (made  by  Dr. 
Burney), 

Qiieeii  victoria's  Jubilee  Year  =  /  require  lone  in 
a  i>ubject. 

Quid  est  Veritas  (Joliii  xviii.  3s)?=Vir  est  qui 
ariest. 

Marie  Toucliet  (mistress  of  Charles  IX.  of 
France  =  Je  clianne  tmd  (made  by  Henri  IV. i. 

Voltaire  is  an  anagram  of  Aroael  ((e)j((?«ne). 

These  are  interchangeable  icords  : — 

Ali-uiiuis  and  Calviniis  ;  Amor  and  Roma;  Eros 
and  Hose  ;  Evil  and  Live  ;  and  many  more. 

Anah,  a  tender-hearted,  pious,  meek, 
and  loving  creature,  granddaughter  of 
Cain,  and  sister  of  Aholiba'mah.  Japhet 
loved  her,  but  she  had  set  her  heart  on 
the  sera2)h  Aza'ziel,  who  carried  her  off 


An  ana 


46 


Ancient   Mariner" 


to   some   other  planet   when   the    flood 
c;ime. — Bjrott  :  Hiavi-n  Mid  Eurth. 

Ana'na.  The  pine-apple  (the  Bra- 
zilian ananas). 

"  Witness  tbou,  l)p;t  Aii.an.a  !  tlidii  tlie  priile 
Of  ve^'etahle  life."    Thomson :  Skiiiiiui-, iiK>,<>x(J. 

Anastasia  (St.).  Her  attributes  are 
a  stake  and  faggots,  with  a  palm  branch 
in  her  hand.  The  allusion  is,  of  course, 
to  her  martyrdom  at  the  stake. 

Anathema.  A  denunciation  or 
curse.  The  word  is  Greek,  and  means 
to  place,  or  set  up,  in  allusion  to  the 
mythological  custom  of  hanging  in  the 
temple  of  a  jjatron  god  something  de- 
voted to  him.  Tlius  Gordius  huug  up 
his  yoke  and  beam  ;  the  shipwrecked 
living  up  their  wet  clothes ;  workmen 
retired  from  business  hung  up  their 
tools,  etc.  Hence  ani/thiin/  .set  apart  for 
distraction  ;  and  so,  set  apart  from  the 
Church  as  under  a  cui'se. 
"  Me  tabula  sacer 

Votiva  ii.iries  indicat  u\  ida 

Susiienilisse  potent  i 

Vestimenta  maris  ileo." 

Horace:  Oilfs  (v.  13—111). 

V  Horace,  having  escaped  the  love- 
snares  of  Pyrrlia,  haugs  up  his  votive 
tablet,  as  one  who  has  escajjed  the 
dangers  of  the  sea. 

Anatomy.  Ife  was  like  an  anatom;/ — 
i.e.  a  mere  skeleton,  very  thin,  like  one 
whose  flesh  had  been  anatomised  or  cut 
off'.  Shakespeare  uses  atomy  as  a  syno- 
nj'm.  Thus  the  hostess  Quicklij  says  to 
the  Beadle  :  "  Thou  atomy,  thou  !  "  and 
Jhll  Tearsheet  caps  the "  phrase  with, 
"  Come,  you  thin  thing ;  come,  you 
rascal." — 2  Henry  IV.,  v.  4. 

Anaxarete  (o  syl.)  of  Salamis  was 
changed  into  stone  for  despising  the  love 
of  Iphis,  who  hung  himself. — Odd: 
Metainorplioses,  xiv.  750. 

Anaxar'te  (4  syl.).  A  knight  whose 
adventures  and  exploits  form  a  supple- 
mental part  of  the  Spanish  romance 
called  Ain'adis  of  Gaul.  This  part 
Avas  added  by  Feliciano  de  Silva. 

Ancse'os.  Helmsman  of  the  ship 
Ari/o,  after  the  death  of  Ti'phys.  He 
was  told  by  a  slave  that  he  would  never 
live  to  taste  the  wine  of  his  vineyards. 
When  a  bottle  made  from  his  own 
grape?  was  set  before  him,  he  sent  for 
the  slave  to  laugh  at  his  prognostica- 
tions ;  but  the  shive  made  answer, 
"  There's  many  a  slip  'twixt  the  cup 
and  the  lip."  At  this  instant  a  mes- 
senger came  in,  and  told  Ancseos  that 


a  wild  boar  was  laying  his  vineyard 
waste,  whereupon  he  set  down  his  cup, 
went  out  against  the  boar,  and  was 
killed  in  the  eucounter. 

Ancalites  (4  syl.)  Inhabitants  of 
parts  of  Berkshire  and  Wiltshire,  re- 
ferred   to    by    Ctesar    in    las    Coin  men - 

tarics. 

Anchor.  T/iat  icas  mi/  sheet  anchor 
■ — i.e.  my  best  hope,  my  last  refuge. 
The  sheet  anchor  is  the  largest  anclior 
of  a  ship,  which,  in  stress  of  weather,  is 
the  sailor's  chief  dependence.  The  word 
sheet  is  a  corruption  of  the  word  sliote 
(thrown  out),  meaning  the  anchor 
"thrown  out"  in  foul  weather.  The 
Greeks  and  Romans  said,  "  my  sacred 
anchor,"  because  the  sheet  anchor  was 
always  dedicated  to  some  god. 

Anchor  {The),  in  Christian  art,  is 
given  to  Clement  of  Rome  and  Nicolas 
of  Bari.  Pope  Clement,  in  a.d.  80.  was 
bound  to  an  anclior  and  cast  into  the 
sea.  Nicolas  of  Bari  is  the  patron 
saint  of  sailors. 

The  anchor  is  apeak — that  is,  the  cable 
of  the  anchor  is  so  tight  that  the  ship  is 
drawn  completely  over  it.  {See  Bowee 
Anchor,  Sheet  Anchoe.) 

'The  anchor  comes  liome,  the  anchor  has 
been  dragged  from  its  hold.  Figura- 
tivelj",  the  euteriirise  has  failed,  not- 
withstanding the  precautions  employed. 

To  weigh  anchor,  to  haul  in  the  anchor, 
that  the  shij)  may  sail  away  from  its 
mooring.  Figuratively,  to  begin  an 
enterijrise  which  has  hung  on  liaud. 

Anchor  'Watch  {An).  A  watch  of 
one  or  two  men,  while  the  vessel  rides 
at  anchor,  in  jjort. 

Ancien  Regime.  An  antiquated 
.system  of  governtueut.  This  phrase, 
ill  the  French  Revolution,  meant  the 
monarchical  form  of  government,  or  the 
system  of  government,  with  all  its  evils, 
which  existed  jirior  to  that  great  change. 

Ancient.  A  corruption  of  ensign — a 
flag  and  the  officer  who  bore  it.  Pistol 
was  Falstaff's  "ancient." 

"Ten  times  more  dislionourablj-  ra)-'ged  than 
an  (ikl-faced  ancient." — Sltakespeure:  J  lleiuy  IV., 
iv.  -.'I. 

'■  .My  whole  charge  consists  of  ancients,  cnr- 
poniis,  lieutenants,  gentlemen  ol  roniiianies 
.    .    .    ."—Sluike.':peare:lJIciir!jiy.,  iv.  :;. 

Ancient  Mariner.  Having  shot  an 
albatross,  he  and  his  companions  were 
subjected  to  fearful  penalties.  On  re- 
pentance he  was  forgiven,  and  on  reach- 
ing land   told    his   story   to   a    hermit. 


Ancient   of  Days 


47 


Android 


At  times,  however,  distress  of  mind 
drove  him  from  hiud  to  hiiid,  ;iud 
wherever  he  abode  lie  told  his  tale  of 
woe,  to  waru  from  cruelty  and  persuade 
meu  to  love  God's  creatures. — Cohridge. 

Ancient  of  Days  (Dauiel  iii.  9), 
Jehovah. 

Ancile    (3   syl.)-     The  Palladium  of 
Rome.     It  was  the  sacred  buckler  which 
Nunia  said  fell  from  heaven.    To  prevent 
its  being  stolen,  he  caused  eleven  others 
to  be  made  precisely  like  it,  and  confided 
them  to  twelve  priests  called  Salii,  who 
bore  them  in  jjrocession  through  the  city 
every  year  at  the  beginning  of  March. 
"  Idiiueaucile  vocat,(iuodab  onmi  parte recisuni 
est, 
^    Qiidiniiie  uote3  oculis,  angiiUis  omnis  aliest." 
Utid:  Fasti,  iii.  377. 

And.  The  character  "  &"  is  a  mono- 
gram of  ct  (and),  made  in  Italian  type,  &=. 

Andirons  or  Hand-irons,  a  corrup- 
tion of  andcria,  aiidera,  and^la,  or  a)tdeiia. 
Ducange  says,  "  Andena  est  ferrum, 
quo  appodiautur  ligna  in  foco,  ut  melius 
luceant,  et  melius  comburantur."  Far- 
ther on  he  gives  anderia,  auderius,  an- 
dellus,  etc.,  as  variants.  Called  "dogs  " 
because  they  were  often  made  in  the 
resemblance  of  dogs.  The  derivation  of 
ta/dcru/is  is  not  clear  ;  Ducange  saj's, 
"  dicitur  andena,  quasi  ai/te  ruporcm, 
i.e.  calorem,"  but  this  probably  will 
satisfy  no  one.  The  modern  French 
word  is  laiuUer,  old  French  andicr,  Low 
Latin  ainUcns. 

Andrea  Ferra'ra.  A  sword.  So 
called  from  a  famous  sword-maker  of 
the  name.     (Si.xteeuth  century.) 

"  We'll  pnt  in  hail,  my  boy  ;  old  Andrea  Ferrara 
shall  lodge  his  security."— .Scott;   Waceiley,  cli.  .lO. 

Andrew,  a  name  commonly  used  in 
old  plays  for  a  valet  or  man-servant. 
Probably  a  Merry  Andrew  is  simply 
the  mirth-making  Andrew  or  domestic 
jester.     {Sec  Merhy  Andrew.) 

Similirly,  Alii'-rail  i.s  ii~ed  in  old  plays  for  a 
waitiii!-'  gentlewoman.    (Sie  .XiiicAii..) 

Andrew  {An).  A  merchant  vessel, 
probably  so  called  from  Andrew  Doria, 
the  famous  Genoese  admiral. 

"  I  should  think  of  shallows  and  of  flat-, 
And  see  my  wealthy  Andrew  docked  in  s-ind." 
Slitkcspiare  :  Merchant  of  Venice,  i.  1. 

Andrew  («S'/.),  depicted  in  Christian 
art  as  an  okt  man  with  long  white  hair 
and  beard,  holding  the  Gospel  in  his 
rio'ht  hand,  and  leaning  on  a  cross  like 
the  letter  X,  termed  St.  Andrew's  cross. 
The  great  pictures  of  St.  Andrew  are  his 
FlageUutiun  by  Domenichino,  and  the 
Adoration  of  the  Cross  by  Guido,  which 


has  also  been  depicted  by  Andrea 
Sacchi,  in  the  Vatican  at  Rome.  Both 
the  FliKjellation  and  the  Adoration 
form  the  subjects  of  frescoes  in  the 
chapel  of  St.  Andrea,  in  the  church  of 
San  Gregorio,  at  Rome.  His  day  is 
November  30th.  It  is  said  that  he 
suffered  martyrdom  in  Patraj  (a.d.  70). 
{•Sec  St.  Rule.) 

The  "adoration  of  the  cross"  means  liisfervent 
address  to  the  cross  on  which  he  was  ahont  to 
suffer.  "  Hail,  precious  ci-os.s,  ci>nsci'ralpd  hv  the 
body  of  Christ !  1  come  to  thee  exullin'-' and  full 
of  joy.  Receive  me  into  thy  dear  arms."  The 
"  flairellation  "  means  the  soourgini,'  >vbich  always 
preceded  capital  punishments,  according  to  Ro- 
man custom. 

St.  A)idrcw\s  Cross  is  represented  in 
the  form  of  an  X  (white  on  a  blue  field). 
The  cross,  however,  on  which  the 
apostle  suffered  was  of  the  ordinary 
.shape,  if  we  may  believe  the  relic  in  the 
convent  of  St.  Victor,  near  Marseilles. 
The  error  rose  from  the  way  in  which 
that  cross  is  exhibited,  resting  on  the 
end  of  the  cross-beam  and  point  of  the 
foot. 

According  to  J.  Leslie  {History  of 
Scotland),  this  sort  of  cross  appeared 
in  the  heavens  to  Achaius,  King  of  the 
Scots,  and  Hungus,  King  of  the  Picts, 
the  night  before  their  engagement  with 
Athelstane.  As  they  were  the  victors, 
they  went  barefoot  to  the  kirk  of  St. 
Andrew,  and  vowed  to  adojit  his  cross 
as  their  national  emblem.  {See  Con- 
stantine's  Cross.) 

Andrew  Maos  {T/n).  The  crew 
of  H.M.S.  Androni'ac/ie.  Similarly, 
the  Jhd/crop/ton  was  called  by  Engli.sh 
sailors  "  Billy  ruffian,"  and  the  Acliilles 
the  "Ash  heels."  {Sec  Beefeatkr, 
etc.) 

Androcles    and    the    Lion.      Au- 

drocles  was  a  runaway  slave  who  took 
refuge  in  a  cavern.  A  lion  entered,  and 
instead  of  tearing  him  to  pieces,  lifted 
up  his  fore  paw  that  Androcles  miglit 
extract  from  it  a  thorn.  The  slave  being 
subsequently  captured,  was  doomed  to 
fight  with  a  lion  in  the  Roman  arena. 
It  so  happened  that  the  same  lion  was 
let  out  against  him,  and,  recognising  his 
benefactor,  showed  towards  him  every 
demonstration  of  love  and  gratitude. 

In  the  Gesta  Itomanorum  (Tale  civ.) 
the  same  story  is  told,  and  there  is 
a  similar  one  in  jEsop's  Faldcs.  The 
original  tale,  however,  is  from  Aulus 
Gellius,  on  the  authority  of  Plistonices, 
who  asserts  that  he  was  himself  an  cye- 
witucss  of  the  encounter. 

Android.    An  automaton  figure  of  a 


Andromeda 


48 


Angelica 


humau  beiug  (Greek,  andros-culos,  a 
mail's  likeness).  One  of  the  most 
famous  of  these  machines  is  that  by 
M.  Vaucauson,  called  the  flute-player. 
The  chess-player  by  Kempeleu  is  also 
celebrated,     {^ee  Auiomaton.) 

Androm'eda.  Daughter  of  Cepheus 
(2  syl.)  and  Cassiopeia.  Her  mother 
boasted  that  the  beauty  of  Andromeda 
surpassed  that  of  the  Nereids ;  so  the 
Nereids  induced  Neptune  to  send  a  sea- 
monster  on  the  country,  and  an  oracle 
declared  that  Andromeda  must  be  given 
up  to  it.  She  was  accordingly  chained 
to  a  rock,  but  was  delivered  by  Perseus 
(2  syl.).  After  death  she  was  placed 
among  the  stars.     {See  Angelica.) 

Ovid:  MLtiDiiorplioses,  v.  1,  t'tc. 

Androni'ca  (in  Orhoulo  Furioso). 
One  of  Logistilla's  handmaids,  famous 
for  her  beauty.  She  was  sent  with 
Sophros'yne  to  conduct  Astolpho  from 
India  to  Arabia. 

Anent.  Over  against ;  concerning. 
(Old  English,  on-emn ;  later  forms,  on- 
efcii,  oii-cfciit,  aH-''ent.) 

Ange  de  Greve  (French),  a  hang- 
man or  executioner.  The  "Place  ile 
(jri-cve"  was  at  one  time  the  Tyburn  of 
Paris. 

Angel.  Half  a  sovereign  in  gold ;  so 
called  because,  at  one  time,  it  bore  the 
ligure  of  the  archangel  Michael  slaying 
the  dragon. 

V  "When  the  Rev.  Mr.  Patten,  vicar 
of  Whitstable,  was  dymg,  the  Arcli- 
Irisliop  of  Canterbury  sent  him  £10. 
The  wit  said,  "  Tell  his  Grace  that  now 
I  am  sure  he  is  a  man  of  God,  for  I  have 
seen  liis  angels." 

AiKjel  («  puhiic-liOHse  sign),  in  compli- 
ment to  llichard  II.,  who  placed  an 
augel  above  his  shield,  holding  it  up  in 
liis  hands. 

To  ar'de  like  an  angel  (French).  The 
angel  referred  to  was  Aiigelo  Vergece 
[Vergezio],  a  Cretan  of  tlie  sixteenth 
century.  He  was  employed  both  ])y 
Henri  II.  and  by  Fianc^ois  I.,  and  was 
noted  for  his  caligraphy.  {iJidot  : 
Nottcelle  Biographie  Universelle  11852- 
GG]). 

Angel  of  the  Schools.  St.  Tliomas 
Aquinas.     {See  Angelic  Doctoe.) 

Angels,  say  the  Arabs,  were  created 
from  pure,  bright  gems ;  the  genii,  of 
/i/'c  ;  and  man,  of  clag. 

Angels,    according"  to   Diouysius    the 


Areop'agite,  were  divided  into  nine  or- 
ders:— 

(i)  Seraphim,  Cherubim,  and  Thrones,  in  the 
first  circle. 

(ii)  Dominions,  Virtues,  and  Powers,  in  the 
second  circle. 

(iiii  Principalities,  Archangels,  and  Angels,  in 
the  third  circle. 

iS(.  Gregory  the  Great :  Homily  34. 
"  In  heaven  ahove. 
The  effulgent  bands  in  triple  circles  move." 

Tasso:  Jerusalem  Delivered,  xi.  13. 

Angels,  The  seven  holy  angels  are  — 
Abdiel,  Gabriel,  Michael,  Raguel, 
Raphael,  Simiel,  and  Uriel.  Michael 
and  Gabriel  ai-e  mentioned  in  the  Biblj, 
Raphael  in  the  Apocrypha. 

V  Milton  (Paradise  Lost,  book  i.,  from 
392)  gives  a  List  of  the  fallen  angels. 

Angel-beast.  A  favourite  round 
game  of  cards,  which  enabled  gentlemen 
to  let  tlie  ladies  win  small  stakes.  Five 
cards  are  dealt  to  each  pla5'er,  and  three 
heaps  formed — one  for  the  king,  one  for 
play,  and  the  third  for  Tri'olet.  The 
name  of  the  game  was  la  bete  (beast). 
Angel  was  the  stake.  Thus  we  say, 
ShilKng- whist. 

"This  gentleman  offers  to  play  at  Angel-beast, 
though  he  scarce  knows  the  cards."— J/it/ierri/ 
Garden. 

Angel  Visits.    Delightful  intercourse 
of  short  duration  and  rare  occurrence. 
"  (Visitsl  Like  those  of  angels,  short  and  far 
between."  Blair:  U rave,  i>t.  ii.  itm. 

"  Like  angel-visits,  few  and  far  between." 

Campbell :  Flea^ureg  of  Ilojie,  line  STj. 

Angel-water,  a  Spanish  cosmetic, 
made  of  roses,  trefoil,  and  lavender. 
Short  for  Angelica- water,  because  ori- 
ginally it  was  chiefly  made  of  the  plant 
Angelica. 

"Angel-water  was  the  wor.st  scent  about  her." 
—Sedley :  Bellam. 

Angelic  Doctor.  Thomas  Aqui'nas 
was  so  called,  because  he  discussed  the 
knotty  points  in  connection  with  the 
being  and  nature  of  angels.  An  ex- 
ample is,  "  Utr/iin  Aii'gelas  inoreatur  de 
loco  ad  locum  trunsenndo  per  me'diuni  ?  " 
The  Doctor  says  that  it  depends  upon 
circumstances. 

•.■  It  is  said,  by  way  of  a  quiz,  that  one  of  his 
iiuestions  was :  "  How  many  angels  can  dance  on 
the  point  of  a  pin  ?" 

Angelic  Hymn.  The  liymn  begin- 
ning witli  (llorg  be  to  God  on  kigh^  etc. 
(Luke  ii.  14);  so  called  because  the  former 
part  of  it  was  sung  by  the  angel  host 
that  appeared  to  the  shepherds  of  Beth- 
lehem. 

Angelica.  Daughter  of  Gal'aphron, 
king  of  Cathay,  the  capital  of  which  was 
Albracca.  She  was  sent  to  sow  discord 
among    the    Christians.      Charlemagne 


Angelica's  Draught 


49 


Angoulaflfre 


sent  her  to  the  Duke  of  Bavaria,  but 
she  made  her  escape  from  the  duke's 
castle.  Being  captured  in  her  flight, 
she  was  bound  to  a  rock,  and  exposed 
to  sea-monsters.  Rogcro  delivered  her, 
but  she  escaped  out  of  his  hands  by  a 
magic  ring.  Orlando  greatly  loved  her, 
but  she  married  Medoro,  a  young  Moor, 
and  retui'ned  to  India,  where  Medoro  suc- 
ceeded to  the  crown  in  right  of  his  wife. 
{Orlcoido  Furioso.)    (-SV(;  Andromeda). 

Angelica's  Draught,  something 
which  completely  changes  affection. 
The  tale  is  that  Angelica  was  passion- 
ately in  love  with  Itinaldo,  who  hated 
her,  whereas  Orlando,  whom  she  hated, 
actually  adored  her  shadow.  Angelica 
and  Rinaldo  drink  from  a  certain  foun- 
tain, when  a  complete  change  takes 
place  ;  Rinaldo  is  drunk  with  love,  and 
Angelica's  jsassion  changes  to  abhor- 
rence. Angelica  ultimately  married 
Medo'ro,  and  Orlando  went  mad. 
(^Ariosto  :   Orla)ido  Fiiriugo.) 

Angel  ical  Stone.  The  speculum  of 
Dr.  Dee.  He  asserted  that  it  was  given 
him  by  the  angels  Raphael  and  Gabriel. 
It  passed  into  the  possession  of  the  Earl 
of  Peterborough,  thence  to  Lady  Betty 
Germaiue,  by  whom  it  was  given  to  the 
Duke  of  Argyll,  whose  son  presented  it 
to  Horace  Walpole.  It  was  sold  in 
1842,  at  the  dispersion  of  the  curiosities 
of  Strawberry  Hill. 

Angel'ici.  Certain  heretics  of  the 
second  century,  who  advocated  the 
worshiji  of  angels. 

An'gelites  (3  syl.).  A  branch  of  the 
Sabelliau  heretics ;  so  called  from  An- 
gel'ius,  in  Alexandria,  where  they  used 
to  meet.  {Dr.  Hook:  Church  Dictionary .) 

An'gelo.    (/SVv  Michael  Angelo.) 

Angelo  and  Raffaelle.  Michael 
Augelo  criticised  Raffaelle  very  severelJ^ 

"  SucU  was  the  language  of  this  false  Italian 
[Angelo] : 
Oue  time  he   christened  Raphael  a  Tyg- 
nialion, 
Swore  that  his  maidens  were  composed 
of  stone  ; 
Swore   his  expressions  were  like  owls,  so 

tame, 
His  drawings,  like  the  lamest  cripple,  lame  ; 
And  as  for  composition,  he  had  none." 
Peter  Pindar :  Lyric  Odes,  viii. 

{See  Michael  Angelo.) 

Angelus  {The).  A  Roman  Catholic 
devotion  in  honour  of  the  Incarnation, 
instituted  by  Urban  II.  It  consists  of 
three  texts,  each  said  as  versicle  and 
response,  and  followed  by  the  salutation 
of  Gabriel.     The  name  is  derived  from 


the  first  words,  Angelus  Domini  (The 
angel  of  the  Lord,  etc.). 

The  jirayer  is  recited  three  times  a 
day,  generally  about  6  a.m.,  at  noon, 
and  about  6  p.m.,  at  the  sound  of  a  bell 
called  the  yingeUis. 

The  Angelus  bell  (often  wrongly 
called  the  Curfew)  is  still  rung  at  8  j^.m. 
in  some  country  churches. 

"Sweetly  over  the  village  the  bell  of  the  An- 
gelus sounded," 

Loncifelloio :  EvaitrjcUiie. 

Anger.  Athenodo'rus,  the  Stoic,  told 
Augustus  the  best  way  to  restrain  unruly 
anger  was  to  repeat  the  alphabet  before 
giving  way  to  it.     {Sec  Dandee.  ) 

"  The  sacred  line  he  did  but  once  repeat, 
And  laid  the  storm,  and  cooled  the  raging 
heat."  Tickell ;  The  Horn  huolc. 

Angevin,  adjective  of  Anjou. 

John  w.is  not  the  last  of  the  Angevin  kings  of 
England,  though  he  was  the  last  kingof  England 
who  reigned  over  Anjou. 

Angioli'na  (4  syl.).  The  young  wife 
of  Mari'no  Falie'ro,  the  doge.  She  was 
the  daughter  of  Loreda'no.  {Bijroii  : 
Marino  Fnl  cro.) 

i^nglaat'e's  Lord.  Orlando,  who  was 
lord  of  Anglaut  and  knight  of  Brava. 

An'gle.  A  dead  awjle.  A  term  in 
fortilication  aj^plied  to  the  plot  of  earth 
before  an  angle  in  a  wall  which  can 
neither  be  seen  nor  defended  from  the 
parapet. 

Angle  with  a  Silver  Hook  {Tij). 
To  buy  hsh  at  market. 

An'gling.  The  father  of  aiKiliiiq, 
Izaak  Walton  (1693-1083).  Angling 
is  called  "the  gentle  craft";  shoe- 
making  was  also  so  called.  Probably 
there  is  a  pun  concealed  in  the  first  of 
these  ;  a  common  bait  of  anglers  being 
a  "gentle."  In  the  second  case,  St. 
Crispin  was  a  Roman  gentleman  of  high 
birth,  and  his  craftsmen  took  from  him 
their  title  of  "gentle"  {(/enerO^i). 

Angoulaffre  of  the  Broken  Teeth, 
a  giant  "12  cubits  in  height."  His  face 
measured  3  feet  across ;  his  nose  was 
9  inches  long  ;  his  arms  and  legs  were 
each  6  feet ;  his  fingers  6  inclies  and  2 
lines  ;  his  enormous  mouth  was  armed 
with  sharij-pointed  yellow  tusks.  He 
was  descended  from  Goliath,  and  as- 
sumed the  title  of  "  Governor  of  Jeru- 
salem." Angoulaffre  had  the  strength  of 
30  men,  and  his  mace  was  the  trunk  of 
an  oak-tree  300  years  old.  Some  say 
the  Tower  of  Pisa  lost  its  perpendicu- 
larity by  the  weight  of  this  giant,  whfl 


Angry 


60 


Animals 


one  day  leaned  against  it  to  rest  himself. 
He  was  slain  by  Roland,  the  paladin,  in 
single  combat  at  the  Fronsac.  (CVo- 
quiinitaiiic.) 

Angry  (The).  Christian  II.,  of  Den- 
mark, Xorwaj',  and  Sweden,  was  so 
called  on  account  of  his  ungovernable 
temper.     (1.513-1.559.) 

An  gular.  Cross-grained  ;  of  a  patchy 
temper  ;  one  full  of  angles,  whose 
temper  is  not  smooth. 

Angurva'del.  Frithiof's  sword,  in- 
scribed with  Kuuic  letters,  which  blazed 
in  time  of  war,  but  gleamed  with  a  dim 
light  in  time  of  peace.     {Hee  Swoed.) 

An'ima  Mundi  [the  soul  of  the  irorfd], 
with  the  oldest  of  the  ancient  philo- 
sophers, meant  "the  source  of  life"; 
with  Plato,  it  meant  "the  animating 
principle  of  matter,"  inferior  to  pure 
spirit;  with  the  Stoics,  it  meant  "the 
whole  vital  force  of  the  imiverse." 

Stahl  (1710)  taught  that  the  pheno- 
mena of  animal  life  are  due  to  an  im- 
mortal eniiiiiK,  or  vital  principle  distinct 
from  matter. 

Animal.  To  rjo  the  eiiiife  animal,  a 
facetious  euphuism  for  "To  go  the 
whole  hog."     {See  Hoo.) 

Animal  Spirits.  Liveliness  and 
animation  arising  from  physical  vigour. 

Animals  admitted  into  Heaven 
( Tlie).  They  are  ten  :  (1)  Jonah's  wlinle  ; 
(2)  Solomon's  ant ;  (:5)  the  ram  caught  by 
Abraham  and  sacrificed  instead  of  Isaac ; 
(4)  the  enekoo  of  Belkis  ;  (o)  the  camel 
of  the  pi-ophet  Saleh  ;  (6)  Balaam's  ass  ; 
(7)  the  ox  of  Moses  ;  (8)  the  do;/  Kratim 
of  the  Seven  Sleepers  ;  (9)  Mahomet's 
ass,  called  Al  Borak  ;  and  (10)  Noah's 
dove. 

Animals    in    Christian  Art.    The 

ant  sJ^nbolises  prudence ;  the  r?/;^,  malice, 
lust,  and  cunning ;  the  ass,  sobriet}^  or 
the  Jewish  nation  ;  the  asp,  Christ,  or 
Christian  faith  ;  the  hee,  industry  ;  the 
camel,  submission  ;  the  cock,  vigilance  ; 
the  dfifi,  fidelity  ;  the  fox,  fraud  and 
cunning  ;  the  hoy,  iraiiurity  ;  the  lamb, 
innocence ;  the  leopard,  sin ;  the  ox, 
pride  ;  the  irolf  cruelty. 

Some  animals  are  appropriated  to 
certain  saints :  as  the  calf  or  ox  to 
J. like  :  the  cock  to  I'cter  :  the  eagle  to 
John  the  l)iiine  ;  the  lion  to  Mark  ;  the 
raven  to  lienediet,  etc. 

The  lamb,  the  pelican,  and  the  uni- 
roiii,  :iru  symbols  of  Christ. 

The  drngoti,  serpent,  and  swine,  sym- 
bolise Satan  and  his  crew. 


Animals  sacred  to  special  Dei- 
ties. To  Apollo,  the  u-rjlf  the  griffvu, 
and  the  crow  ;  to  Bacchus,  the  dragon 
s.nAt\ie  panther  ;  to  Diana,  the  stag  ;  to 
.^sculapius,  the  serpent ;  to  Hercules,  the 
deer  ;  to  Isis,  the  heifer  ;  to  Jupiter,  the 
eagle  ;  to  Juno,  the  peacock  and  the  lamb; 
to  the  Lares,  tlie  dog  ;  to  Mars,  the  horse 
and  the  rulturc  ;  to  Mercurj',  the  cock  ; 
to  Minerva,  the  owl;  to  Neptune,  the 
bull ;  toTethys,  the  halgcon  ;  to  Venus, 
the  dove,  the  sa-an,  and  the  sparrow  ;  to 
Vidcan,  the  lion,  etc. 

Animals  {Sginbolicctl) .  The  ant,  frii- 
galitg  and  precision;  ape,  iniclca/incss ; 
ass,  stiipiditg  ;  bantam  coc'k,  plnckiness, 
priggishness ;  bat,  blindness;  bear,  ill- 
ieinper,  iiiicoiithness ;  bee,  indiestrg ; 
beetle,  blindness;  bull,  strength,  straight- 
forwardness ;  bull-dog,  pertinacitg  ;  but- 
terfly, «/;o>'^irr«('««,  living  in  pleasure;  cat, 
deceit;  ca.\i,  liimpishmss,  cowardice;  ci- 
cada, poctrg ;  cock,  vigilance,  overbearing 
insolence;  crow,  longcvitg ;  crocodile, 
hgpocrisg  ;  cuckoo,  cuckoldom.  ;  dog, 
fdelitg,  dirty  habits ;  dove,  innocence, 
harnilessness ;  duck,  deceit  (French, 
canard,  a  hoax)  ;  eagle,  majestg,  in- 
spiration ;  elephant,  sagacitg,  ponder- 
osity;  f[y,  feebleness,  insignificance  ;  fox, 
cunning,  artifice  ;  frog  and  toad,  inspira- 
tion  ;  goat,  lascivioiisncss  ;  goose,  conceit, 
foily ;  gull,  gullibility ;  grasshopper, 
old  age ;  hare,  timidity;  hawk,  rapacity, 
penetration  ;  hen,  maternal  care  ;  horse, 
speed,  grace ;  jackdaw,  rain  assumption, 
empty  conceit;  jay,  senseless  chatter; 
'kitten, playfulness;  Isimh,  innocence,  sacri- 
fice; lark,  cheerfulness;  lion,  noble  courage; 
lynx,  suspicions  vigilance  ;  magjiie,  gar- 
rulity;  mole,  blindness,  obtuseness  ;  mon- 
key, tricks  ;  mule,  obstinacy  ;  nightin- 
gale, y(yr/o>-««rs«  ;  ostrich,  stupidity  ;  ox, 
patience,  strength  ;  owl,  wisdom  ;  parrot, 
mocking  rcrbosity ;  peacock,  pride  ; 
pigeon,  cowardice  (pigeon-livered)  ;  pig, 
obstinacy,  dirtiness;  puppy,  empty-headed 
conceit  ;  mhhit,  fecundity ;  raven,  illluck ; 
robin  red-breast,  confiding  trust;  ser- 
pent, wisdom;  &\\ee\i,'  silli)icss,  timidity  ; 
sparrow,  lascivioiisncss  ;  spider,  iiiliness; 
stag,  cuckoldom ;  swallow,  a  sunshine 
friend;  swan,  grace  ;  swino,  flthiness, 
greed  ;  tiger,  ferocity;  tortoise,  chastity  ; 
turkey-cock,  official  insolence ;  turtle- 
dove, conjugal fdclity  ;  vulture,  rapine  ; 
wolf,  cruelty,  savage  ferocity,  anAnqnne; 
worm,  cringing  ;  etc. 

Animals  ( The  cries  of).  Apes  gibber; 
asses  bray  ;  bees  hum;  beetles  drone; 
bears  growl;  bittern-s  boom;  blackbirds 
tchistle  :    blackcaps  —  we  speak  of  the 


Animosity 


51 


Annunciation 


"chick-chick"  of  the  blackcap;  bulls 
I'dlotr ;  cana'-ies  si)iff  or  quaver;  cats 
nicir,  purr,  .iurfir,a.ndca'eru(ad  ;  calves 
/jh'(i(  and  b/rur ;  chaffinches  c/iirp  or  pink; 
chickens  pip  ;  cicadas  si>/ff  ;  cocks  rrow  ; 
cows  moo  or  low  ;  crows  can- ;  cuckoos 
cry  cuckoo ;  deer  bell ;  dogs  bark,  bay, 
/lon-l,  and  i/clp;  doves  coo  ;  ducks  quack; 
eagles  scrcaiu  ;  falcons  chant ;  flies  buzz ; 
foxes  bark  and  i/elp  ;  frogs  croak  ;  geese 
cackle  -Aud  /li.ss  ;  goldtinch — we  speak  of 
the  "merry  twinkle"  of  the  female; 
grasshoppers  c/iirp  and  pitlcr  ;  gi'ouse  — 
we  speak  of  the  "drumming"  of  the 
grouse;  guineaf  owls  cry  ^^  conic  buck''' ; 
guineapigs  squeak  ;  hares  squeak ;  hawks 
scream ;heuscackleand  cluck;  horses  ueiffh 
and  whinini;  hyenas  laugh;  jays  chatter; 
kittens  mew  ;  lambs  baa  and  bleat  ;  larks 
sine/;  linnets  f  A /^f/iVt' in  their  call;  lions 
roar;  magpies  chatter;  mice  sywcrt/.' and 
squeal ;  monkeys  chatter  and  c/ibber  ; 
nightingales  pipe  and  warble — we  also 
speak  of  its  "jug-jug"  ;  owls  hoot  and 
screech  ;  oxen  low  and  bellow ;  parrots 
talk ;  peacocks  screaiu  ;  peewits  cry 
pcc-icit ;  pigeons roo  ,•  pigs  grunt,  squeak, 
and  squeal ;  ravens  croak ;  redstarts 
whistle;  rooks  caw;  screech-owls  screech 
or  shriek;  sheep  baa  or  bleat;  snakes 
hiss;  sparrows  chirp  or  )/elp ;  stags 
bellow  and  call ;  swallows  twitter;  swans 
crij — we  also  speak  of  the  ' '  bombilation  " 
of  the  swan;  thrushes  irhisflc  ;  tigers 
//rou-l ;  tits — we  speak  of  the  "twit- 
twit"  of  the  bottle-tit;  turkey-cocks 
gobble;  vultures  scream;  whitethroats 
chirr  ;  wolves  howl. 

Animosity  means  animation,  spirit, 
as  the  tire  of  a  horse,  called  in  Latin 
equi  auimos'itas.  Its  present  exclusive 
use  in  a  bad  sense  is  an  instance  of  the 
tendency  which  words  originally  neutral 
have  to  assume  a  bad  meaning.  (Compare 
churl,  villain.) 

Animula. 

"  Animula,  vagula,  blandula, 
Hospcs,  comosque,  corporis ; 
Quae  nunc  abibis  in  loca, 
Pallidula,  rigida,  nudula?" 
The  £mperor  Hadrian  to  his  Soul. 

Sorry-lived,  blithe-little,  flutterintr  Sprite, 
Comrade  and  guest  in  this  hody  of  clav, 

Whither,  ah  :  whither,  departing  iu  flisht, 
Rifid,  half-naked,  pale  minion,  away  ? 

E.  C.  B. 

Anna  {Donna).  A  lady  beloved  by 
Don  Otta'vio,  but  seduced  by  Don  Gio- 
vanni, who  also  killed  her  father,  the 
"  Commandant  of  the  City,"  in  a  duel. 
(Mozart\s  opera  of  Don  Giovanni.) 

.An'nabel,     in    Drydeu's    satire    of 


Absalom  and  Achitophel  is  designed  for 
the  Duchess  of  Monmouth.  Her  maiden 
name  and  title  were  Anne  Scott,  Countess 
of  Buccleuch,  the  richest  heiress  in 
Europe.  The  duke  was  faithless  to 
her,  and  after  his  death,  the  widow, 
still  handsome,  maiTied  again. 

"To  all  his  [Monmouth's]  wishes,  nothinc  he 
[David]  denied  ; 
And  made  tlie  cliarining  Annabel  his  bride." 
I'art  i.  lines  ,■«,  :)l. 

Anna  Matilda  {An),  an  ultra-seuti- 
mentid  girl.  Mrs.  Hannah  Cowley  used 
this  pen-name  in  her  responses  in  the 
ll'orld  to  Delia  Crusca  (R.  Meri-y). 
{See  the  Baviad  by  GiflFord.) 

Annates  (2  syl.).  One  entire  year's 
income  claimed  by  the  Pope  on  the 
appointment  of  a  bishop  or  other  eccle- 
siastic in  the  Catholic  Church.  This  is 
called  the  Jirst  fruits  (Latin,  annus,  a 
year).  By  the  Statute  of  Recusants 
(25  Hen.  VIII.  c.  20,  and  the  Confirm- 
ing Act),  the  right  to  English  Annates 
and  Tenths  was  transferred  to  the 
Crown ;  but,  in  the  reign  of  Queeu 
Anne,  annates  were  given  up  to  form  a 
fund  for  the  augmentation  of  poor 
livings.     (iSVe  Bounty,  Queex  Anne's.) 

Anne.  Sister  Anne.  Sister  of  Fat'ima, 
the  seventh  and  hist  of  Bluebeard's 
wives. 

Anne's  Fan  {Queen).  Your  thumb 
to  your  nose  and  your  fingers  spread. 

Anne's  Great  Captain.    The  Duke 

of  Marlborough  (lGo()-1722). 

Annie  Laurie  was  eldest  of  the 
three  daughters  of  Sir  Robert  Laurie, 
of  Maxwellton,  born  December  16,  1632. 
WiUiam  Douglas,  of  Fingland  (Kirk- 
cudbright), wrote  the  popular  song,  but 
Annie  married,  in  1709,  James  Fer- 
gusson,  of  Craigdarroch,  and  was  the 
mother  of  Alexander  Fergusson,  the  hero 
of  Bums's  song  called  The  Whistle. 

William  Douclas  was  the  hero  of  the  son? 
"  Willie  was  a  wanton  wag." 

Annulo  Dei  figuram  ne  gestato 

{In).  Wear  Hot  God's  image  in  a  ring 
(or  inscribe  ....),  the  24th  symbol 
of  the  Protrcptics.  Jamblicus  tells  us 
that  Pythagoras  wished  to  teach  by  this 
prohibition  that  God  had  an  "incor- 
poreal subsistence."  In  fact,  that  it 
meant  "  thou  shalt  not  liken  God  to  any 
of  His  works." 

Probably  the  ring,  svmboliiing  eternity,  bore 
npiin  the  special  prohihiticm. 

Annuncia'tion.  Dag  of  the  Annun- 
ciation. The  25t]i  of  March,  also  called 
Lady  Day,  on  which  the  angel  announced 


Annus  Luctus 


Anthony 


to  the  Virgin  Mary  that  she  would  bs 
the  mother  of  the  Messiah. 

Annus  Luctus,  the  period  during 
which  a  widow  is  morally  supposed  to 
remain  chaste.  If  she  marries  within 
about  nine  mouths  from  the  death  of 
her  late  husband  and  a  child  is  born,  a 
doubt  might  arise  as  to  the  paternity  of 
the  child.  Such  a  marriage  is  not 
illegal,  but  it  is  iuexjiedieut. 

Annus  Mirab'ilis.  The  year  of 
wonders,  1666,  memorable  for  the  great 
fire  of  Loudon  and  the  successes  of  our 
arms  over  the  Dutch.  Dryden  has 
written  a  poem  with  this  title,  in  which 
he  describes  both  these  events. 

Anodyne  Necklace  (^Ln),  a  halter. 
An  anodyne  is  a  medicine  to  relieve 
pain.  Probably  a  pun  on  iioihis,  a  knot, 
IS  intended  also.  George  Primrose  says: 
"May  I  die  by  an  anodyne  necklace, 
but  I  had  rather  be  an  uuder-turukey 
than  an  usher  in  a  boarding-school." 

Anomoe'ans  or  Uiilihists.  A  sect  in 
the  fourth  ceutuiy  which  maintained 
that  the  essence  of  the  Son  is  wholly 
unlike  that  of  the  Father.  (Greek, 
(iH'omoios,  unlike.) 

Anon,  immediately,  at  once.  The 
Old  Engli.sli  a/i-on  or  an-ane  =  at  once. 
Variants,  on  one,  anonc. 

"  Tliey  knewye  hym  in  brekyng  of  brede,  and 
onone  he  vanvste  awaye  fro  hem."— J/.S.  Lincoln, 
A  1, 17. 

"  Spek  the  lion   .    .    . 
To  the  fox  annne  his  wille." 

Wright's  Political  Songs. 

V  "  For  the  nonce"  is  a  corrupt 
form  of  "  For  the-n  once,"  where  tfic-n 
is  the  accusative  case,  meaning  "For 
the  once  "  or  "  For  this  once." 

Anon-rightes.    Right  quickly. 

'■  Hu  liad  in  l.nvn  live  hundred  kniKhte,-, 
llo  lirni  [thcni]  uf  [aff]  sent  anon-riu'lites." 
Arthur  (tml  Merlin.  i<.  f»8. 

Ansa'rian.  The  Moslems  of  Medi'na 
were  called  Ansariaiis  {aif.rilirfrief!)  by 
Mahomet,  because  they  received  him  and 
took  his  part  when  he  was  driven  from 
house  and  home  by  the  Koreishites 
(Kore-ish'-ites). 

Answer  is  the  Old  English  and-sn-aru, 
verb  and  su:ar-ian  or  swerian,  where 
And  is  the  preposition  =  the  Latin  re 
in  re-spond-eo.     (See  SwEAE.) 

To  an.swfr  like  a  Xormnn,  that  is, 
evasively. 

"  We  say,  in  France, '  Answering  like  a  Nor- 
man,' which  means  to  give  an  evasive  answer, 
neither  vesnorno."— Jr<wO'Kf((;  Friend  M' Donald, 
ch.  V. 

To  ansicer  its  purpose,  to  carry  out 


what  was  expected  or  what  was  in- 
tended. Celsus  says,  "  Mediclna  sfepius 
respondet,  iuterdum  tamen  fallit." 

To  ansHcr  the  bell  is  to  go  and  see 
what  it  was  rung  for. 

To  ansicer  the  door  is  to  go  and  open 

it  when  a  knock  or  ring  has  been  given. 

In   both  the  last  two   instances   the 

word  is    "  answering  to  a   summons." 

To   swear    means    literally    "  to   aifirm 

something,"  and  to  a)i-strear  is  to  "say 

something  "  by  way  of  rejoinder  ;  but 

figuratively  both  the  "swer"  and  the 

"  answer  "  may  be  made  without  words. 

".  .  .  .  Mv  story  being  done,  .  .   . 

She     [Desdemomi:\     swore     [itprmed]    'twas 

strange,  .... 
'Twas  iiitif 111, 'twas  wondrous  pitiful." 

Shakespmre  :  Uthclln,  i.  X 

Answer  more  Scotico  (lo).  To 
divert  the  direct  question  by  starting 
another  question  or  subject. 

'"Hark  you,  sirrah,'  said  the  doctor, '  I  trust 
you  renieniber  you  arc  owing  to  the  laird  4  stone 
of  harleynieal  and  a  bow  of  oats ' 

"  'I  was  thinking,'  replied  the  man  nurre  Scotico, 
that  is,  returning'no  direct  answer  on  the  subject 
on  which  he  was  addressed, '  I  was  thinking  my 
tiest  wav  would  be  to  come  down  to  your  honour, 
and  take  your  advice,  in  case  my  trouble  sh(m!d 
come  back.'"— ,S'!C  Walter  Scott:  The  Abbot,  cb. 
xx\  i. 

Antse'os,  in  Greek  mythology,  was  a 
gigantic  wrestler,  whose  strength  was 
invincible  so  long  as  he  touched  the 
earth  ;  and  every  time  he  was  lifted 
from  it,  was  renewed  by  touching  it 
again.     (See  Male'gae.) 

"  As  once  Antaeos,  on  the  Libyan  strand, 
More   fierce   recovered   when  he  reached  the 
sind."  Uoole's  Ariosto,  liook  iv. 

It  was  Hercules  who  succeeded  in  killing 
this  charmed  giant.     He 
"  Lifts  proud  Antipos  from  his  mother's  plains. 
And  with  strong  grasp  the  struggling  giant 

stnjins  -, 
Back  falls  his  panting  head  and  clammy  hair. 
Writhe  his  weak  limbs  and  flits  his  life  in  air." 
Ihiririn  :  Economy  of  Vegetalion. 

Antece'dents.  I  know  nothing  of  Ids 
antecedents— his  previous  life,  character, 
or  conduct.  (Latin,  antecedens,  fore- 
going.) 

Antediluvian.  Before  the  Deluge, 
meaning  the  Scripture  Deluge. 

Anthi'a.  The  lady-love  of  Abroc'- 
omas  in  Xeuophon's  romance,  called 
Ephesi'aca.  Shakespeare  has  boi'rowed 
from  this  Greek  novel  the  leading 
incidents  of  his  Romeo  and  Juliet,  es- 
pecially that  of  the  potion  and  mock 
entombment.  X.B.  This  is  not  the 
historian,  but  a  Xenophou  who  lived  in 
the  fourth  Christian  century. 

Antbony. 

Anthon;/  (St.).  Patron  saint  of  swine- 
herds, betjause  he  always  lived  in  wood§ 
and  forests. 


Anthroposoplius 


53 


Antrustions 


-S'^.  AntJionifs  Cross.  The  taucross, 
T,  called  a  lace. 

<SY.  Antho)iif's  Fire.  Erysip'elas  is  so 
called  from  the  tradition  that  those  who 
sought  the  iutercessiou  of  St.  Authouy 
recovered  from  the  pestilential  erysipelas 
called  the  sacred Ji re,  which  proved  ex- 
tremely fatal  in  1089. 

)Sf.  Antlionifs  Pig.  A  pet  pig,  the 
smallest  of  the  whole  litter.  St.  An- 
thony was  originally  a  swineherd,  and, 
therefore,  the  patron  saint  of  pigs. 

Anthropos'ophus.  The  nickname  of 
Dr.  Vaughau,  rector  of  8t.  Bride's,  in 
Bedfordsliire.  So  called  from  his  Aii- 
throposoph'ia  Teomiigica,  to  show  the 
condition  of  man  after  death. 

Anti-Christ,  or  the  Man  of  Siii,  ex- 
pected by  some  to  precede  the  second 
coming  of  Christ.  St.  John  so  calls 
every  one  who  denies  the  incarnation  of 
the  eternal  Son  of  God. 

Antig'one.  T/ic  Modern  Anfiffoi/e. 
Marie  Thc-rese Charlotte,  Duchesse  d'An- 
gouleme,  daughter  of  Louis  XVI.  ;  so 
called  for  her  attachment  to  Louis 
XVIII.,  whose  companion  she  was. 
(1778-18.31.) 

An'timony.  Said  to  he  derived  from 
the  Greek  aiifijuon'tichosi  (bad  for 
monks) .  The  tale  is  that  Valentine  once 
gave  some  of  this  mineral  to  his  convent 
pigs,  who  thrived  upon  it,  and  became 
very  fat.  He  next  tried  it  on  the 
monks,  who  died  from  its  effects ;  so 
Valentine  said,  "  tho'  good  for  pigs,  it 
was  bad  for  monks."  This  table  is 
given  by  Furetiere. 

Another  derivation  is  a)tti  -monos 
(averse  to  being  alone),  because  it  is 
found  in  combination  with  sulphur, 
silver,  or  some  other  substance. 

Littre  suggests  i-stJiiiiuiiit,  and  connects 
it  with  stthiuiii. 

Antino'mian.  [Greek,  antl  -  nomos, 
exempt  from  the  law.]  One  who  believes 
that  Chi-istians  are  not  bound  to  observe 
the  "law  of  God,"  but  "may  continue 
iu  sin  that  gi-ace  may  abound."  The 
temi  was  first  applied  to  John  Agricola 
by  Martin  Luther. 

Antin'ous  (1  syl.).  A  model  of  manly 
beaut}-.  He  was  the  page  of  Hadrian, 
the  Roman  Emperor. 

"The  11  ilisheil  grace  of  .•Vutiiiuu.s."  —  Doi/^/ 
Tdegrtiiih. 

Antipathy  (of  human  beings) 
To    Aniiiicth :    Henri    III.    and    the 
Duke  of   Schoenberg  felt  faint  at  the 
sight  of  a  cat ;  Vaughelm  felt  the  same 


at  the  sight  of  a  pig,  and  abhorred  pork ; 
Marshal  Breze  sickened  at  the  sight  of 
a  rabbit ;  the  Due  d'Epemon  always 
swooned  at  the  sight  of  a  leveret,  though 
he  was  not  affected  at  the  sight  of  a 
hare. 

To  Fish  :  Erasmus  felt  gi-ievous 
nausea  at  the  smell  of  fresh  fish. 

To  Flowers  and  Frtats  :  Queen  Anne, 
Gretry  the  composer,  Faverite  the  Italian 
poet,  and  Vincent  the  painter,  all  ab- 
horred the  smell  of  roses  ;  Scaliger  had 
the  same  aversion  to  watercresses ;  and 
King  Vladislas  sickened  at  the  smell  of 
apples. 

To  Music :  Le  Mothe  de  Xayer  felt 
faint  at  the  sound  of  any  musical  instru- 
ment ;  Nicano  had  a  strong  aversion  to 
the  sound  of  a  flute. 

To  'Thunder :  Augustus  trembled  at 
the  noise  of  thunder,  and  retired  to  a 
vault  when  a  thunderstonn  was  ap- 
lirehended. 

Witches  have  an  antipathy  to  ruuuiug 
water. 

'■  .Sun  e  men  tliere  are  love  not  a  gaping;  pig, 
SdUie  that  are  mail  if  tlie>  heboid  a  cat." 

Sliakesjieare :  Mtrcliant  of  Venice,  iv.  1. 

Antipathy  (of  animals).  According 
to  tradition,  wolves  have  a  mortal  anti- 
pathy to  scillaroots  ;  geese  to  the  soil  of 
Whitby  ;  snakes  to  soil  of  Ireland  ;  cats 
to  dogs  ;  all  animals  dislike  the  castor- 
oil  plant ;  camphor  keeps  off  insects ;  Rus- 
sian leather  is  disliked  by  bookwonns ; 
paraffin  by  flies  ;  cedar-wood  is  used  for 
wardrobes,  because  its  odour  Ls  disliked 
bj-  moths.     Ants  diiliko  green  sage. 

Anti-pope  is  a  pope  elected  by  a 
/:i)i!/  iu  opposition  to  the  pope  elected  by 
the  cardinals  ;  or  one  who  usuips  the 
jJOiDedom  in  opposition  to  the  rightful 
pope.  Geddcs  gives  a  list  of  twenty-four 
anti-popes,  three  of  whom  were  deposed 
bj'  the  council  of  Constance. 

Antis'thenes.  Founder  of  the  Cynic 
School  in  Athens.  He  wore  a  ragged 
cloak,  and  carried  a  wallet  and  staff  like 
a  beggar.  Soc'rates  wittily  said  he 
could  "see  rank  pride  peering  through 
the  holes  of  AntistheuCs'  rags." 

Antcni'nus.  The  Jfull  of  Antoni»e. 
A  turf  entrenchment  raised  by  the 
Romans  from  Dunglass  Castle,  on  the 
Clyde,  to  Caer  Ridden  Kirk,  near  the 
Firth  of  Forth,  under  the  direction  of 
LoUius  Urbicus,  legate  of  Antoninus 
Pius,  A.D.  HO. 

Antony.     (.SVcAnthomy.) 

Antrus  tions.  The  chief  followers  of 
the  Fraukish  kings,  who  were  specially 


Ants 


54 


Apis 


trusty  to  tliem.     (Old  German,   trost, 

trust,  fidelity.) 

"Noiu'l)iu  tlic  kiii^'  coiiM  liave  antrustious." 
—  Sttdibs:  CoiistituUouul  Histcnj. 

Ants.  "  Go  to  the  ant,  thou  sliKjriard, 
.  .  .  .  ahicli  providcth  her  meat  at  the 
suMiner"  (Proverbs  vi.  6-8;  aud  xxx. 
25).  The  uotiou  that  ants  in  general 
gather  food  in  harvest  for  a  winter's 
store  is  quite  an  error ;  in  the  first  place, 
they  do  not  live  on  grain,  but  chiefiy  on 
animal  food ;  and  in  tlie  next  place 
they  are  torpid  in  winter,  aud  do  not 
require  food.  Colonel  Sykes,  however, 
says  there  is  in  Poonah  a  grain-feeding 
species,  which  stores  up  millet-seed  ;  and 
according  to  Lubbock  and  Moggridge, 
ants  in  the  south  of  Eurojje  and  in 
Texas  make  stores. 

V  What  are  called  "ant  eggs"  are 
not  eggs,  but  the  pupae  of  ants. 

Anu'bis.  In  Egyptian  mythology, 
similar  to  the  Hermes  of  Greece,  whose 
ofiice  it  was  to  take  the  souls  of  the  dead 
before  the  judge  of  the  infernal  regions. 
Auu'bis  is  represented  with  a  human 
body  and  jackal's  head. 

Anvil.  It  in  on  the  anvil,  under  de- 
liberation ;  the  jjroject  is  in  hand.  Of 
course,  the  reference  is  to  a  smithy. 

"She  li:ul  iUKitliei-  arranseinent  on  the  anvil." 
—Le  Fanu  :  Tlie  JIuiise  in  the  Ckurchyard. 

Any-how,  i.e.  in  an  irregular 
manner.  "He  did  it  any-how,"  in  a 
careless,  slovenly  manner.  "He  went 
on  any-how,"  in  a  wild,  reckless  manner. 
Ant/how,  you  niKst  manage  it  for  me  ;  by 
hook  or  crook ;  at  all  events.  (Old 
Englisli,  (cni<j-hu.) 

Aon'ian.  Poetical,  pertaining  to  the 
Muses.  The  Muses,  according  to  Grecian 
mythology,  dwelt  in  Aon'ia,  that  part  of 
Bceo'tia  which  contains  Mount  Helicon 
and  the  Muses'  Fountain.  Thomson 
calls  the  fraternity  of  poets 

"The  Aotiian  liivc 
Who  praised  are,  ami  starve  ri.i,'ht  iiievril.v." 
Ca.-tle  of  liidoltnce,  ii.  -'. 

A  outrance.  (French.)  To  the 
farthest  point.  The  correct  form  of 
the  phrase.     {See  A  l'outeance.) 

Ape.     The  buffoon  ape,  in  Drydeu's 
poem  called  lite  Hind  and  the  Fanther, 
means  the  Free-thinkers. 
"Ne.Nt  her  \lhe  bear]  the  buffoon  aiie,  as  atheists 
use, 
Mimicked  all  sects,  and  had  his  own  to  choose." 
Part  i.  3'J,  40. 

He  keeps  them,  like  an  ape,  in  the  corner 
of  his  jaw  ;  first  mouthed,  to  he  last  siral- 
mved  {Hamlet  iv.  2).  Most  of  the  Old 
World  monkeys  have  cheek  pouches, 
used  as  receptacles  for  food. 


To  lead  apes  or  To  lead  apss  in  hell. 
It  is  said  of  old  maids.  Hence,  to  die 
an  old  maid. 

"  I  will  even  take  sLvjienre  in  earnest  r)f  tlie 
tiear-ward,  and  lead  his  apes  into  hell."— .SVinAc- 
speure:  Much  Adu  about  Xutliiiiy,  ii.  1. 

Fadladin'da  says  to  Tatlanthe  (3  syl  ) : 

"  Pit.v  that  .vou  who've  served  so  long  and  well 
Should  die  a  viririn,  and  lead  apes  iii  hell." 

H.  Caren :  Cliroiwtihotontholocios. 
'■  Women,  d.ving  maids, lead  apes  in  hell."— 77(e 

Lovdoji  Prudiyal,  i. :;. 

To  play  the  ape,  to  play  practical 
jokes ;  to  play  silly  tricks ;  to  make 
facial  imitations,  like  an  ape. 

T'o  put  an  ape  into  your  hood  (or)  eap^ 
i.e.  to  make  a  fool  of  you.  Aj)es  were 
fonnerly  carried  ou  the  shoulders  of 
fools  and  simpletons. 

'To  say  an  ape's  paternoster,  is  to  chatter 
with  fright  or  cold,  like  an  ape. 

Apelles.  A  famous  Grecian  painter, 
contemporary  with  Alexander  the  Gi'eat. 

"There  comelier  forms  embroidered  rose  to  view 
Than  e'er  .\iielles'  wondrous  pencil  drew." 

Aiiiistu:  Vrlaudu  Furious.  Iiook  xxiv. 

Ap'eman'tus.  A  churlish  i)hiloso- 
pher,  in  8hakesj)eare's  Tiinon  of  Athens. 

"The  cvnicism  of  .^iiemantus  conlnisted  with 
the  misantlirop.v  of  Tinion."— .Sir  It  a.d-r  Srolt. 

A-per-se.  An  A  1  ;  a  person  or 
thing  of  unusual  merit.  "A"  all  alone, 
with  no  one  who  can  follow,  nemo  proxi- 
inus  uut  secundus. 

Chaucer  calls  Cresseide  "the  floure 
and  A-per-se  of  Troi  aud  Greek." 

"London,  thou  art  of  towac^  A-per-se."— Lans- 
dowiie  J/.S'.S. 

Apex,  the  topmost  height,  really 
means  the  pointed  olive-wood  spike  on 
the  top  of  the  cap  of  a  Roman  priest. 
The  cap  fitted  close  to  the  head  and  was 
fastened  under  the  chin  by  a  fillet.  It 
Avas  applied  also  to  the  crest  or  spike  of 
a  lielmet.  The  'word  now  means  the 
summit  or  tiptop. 

Aphrodite  (4  syl.).  The  Greek 
Venus ;  so  called  because  she  sprang 
from  the  foain  of  the  sea.  ("Greek, 
aphros,  foam.) 

Aph'rodite's  Girdle.  Whoever  wore 
Aphrodite's  magic  girdle,  immediately 
became  the  object  of  love.  {Greek 
mytholoyy.) 

Apic'ius.  A  gourmand.  Apicius 
was  a  Roman  goui-mand,  whose  income 
being  reduced  by  his  luxurious  living  to 
£S0,000,  put  an  end  to  his  life,  to  avoid 
the  misery  of  being  obliged  to  live  on 
plain  diet. 

A-pigga-back.    {See  Pig-back.  ) 

A'pis,  in  Egyptian  mythology,  is 
the  bull  symbolical  of  the  god  Apis.  It 
was    not   suffered   to    live    more    than 


Aplomb 


Apostles 


twenty-five  years,  when  it  was  sacrificed 
and  buried  in  great  pomp.  The  mad- 
ness of  Canibyses  is  said  to  liave  been  in 
retribution  for  liis  killing  a  sacred  bull. 

Aplomb  means  true  to  the  plumb- 
line,  but  is  generally  used  to  express 
that  self-possession  which  arises  from 
perfect  self-confidence.  We  also  talk 
of  a  dancer's  aplomb,  meaning  that  he 
is  a  ijerfect  master  of  his  art.  (French, 
a  pluinh. ) 

"  H(!re  exists  tlio  liest  stuck  in  tliewnrlil  .  .  . 
iiK'ii  lit  aiilmiil)  ami  ivsei've,  (if  Kreat  I'aii.Ke  and 
iiiaiiv  iiiiMiils,  iif  sti(piii;  iiistiiK-is,  yet  :\\>l  f(ir 
c'iiltiirc."-/w//M-s"/i :  Eiujlitih  Traits,  \i.  Uti. 

Apocalyptic  Number.  The  mys- 
tic number  GtiO.     (llev.  xiii.  18.)      {Sec 

NUMDEU  OF  THE  BeAST.) 

Apo'crypha,  Those  books  included 
in  tlu^  Si'[ituagiut  and  Vulgate  versions 
of  the  Old  Testament,  but  not  considered 
to  be  parts  of  the  original  canon.  They 
are  accepted  as  canonical  by  Catholics, 
but  not  by  Protestants,  and  are  not 
printed  in  I'rotestant  Bibles  in  ordinary 
circidatiou.  The  word  means  hidden 
(Greek,  apokrnpUi),  "  because  they  were 
wont  to  be  read  not  openly.  .  .  . 
but,  as  it  were,  in  secret  and  apart" 
{Bible,  1539,  I'refdce  to  the  Apocnjplta). 
As  the  reason  why  these  books  are  not 
received  as  canonical  is  because  either 
their  genuineness  or  their  authenticity 
is  doubtful,  therefore  the  word  "apo- 
cryphal "  means  not  genuine  or  not 
authentic. 

Apollina'rians.  An  ancient  sect 
founded  in  the  middle  of  the  fourth 
century  by  Apollina'ris,  bishop  of  Lao- 
dice'a.  They  denied  that  Christ  had  a 
human  soul,  and  asserted  that  the  Loijos 
supplied  its  place.  The  Athanasian 
creed  condemns  this  heresy. 

Apollo.  The  sun,  the  god  of  music. 
{Ituman  iiii/tholo<ji/.) 

"  Apollo's  aiisry,  and  tlie  lieaveus  tlioniajlve.i 
Do  strike  at  my  injustice." 

Hhukespeare :  Winter's  Tide,  iii.  2. 

A  perfect  Apollo.  A  model  of  manly 
beauty,  referring  to  the  Apollo  Belvidere 
{q.v.). 

The  Apollo  of  Tortugal.  Luis 
Camoi-ns,  author  of  the  Luslml ;  so 
called,  not  for  his  beauty,  but  for  his 
poetry.  He  was  god  of  poetry  in  Portu- 
gal, but  was  allowed  to  die  iu  the  streets 
of  Lisbon  like  a  dog,  literally  of  starva- 
tion. Our  own  Otvvay  suffered  a  similar 
fate.     (1527- lo79.) 

Apollo  Belvidere  [£el'-ve-dear'].  A 
marble  statue,  supposed  to  be  from  the 
chisel   of  the   Greek  sculptor  Cal'amis, 


who  flourished  iu  the  fifth  ante-Christian 
era.  It  represents  the  god  holding  a 
bow  in  his  left  hand,  and  is  called 
Belvidere  from  the  Belvidere  Gallery  of 
the  Vat  icau,  in  Rome,  where  it  stands. 
It  was  discovered  in  1503,  amidst  the 
ruins  of  Au'tium,  antl  was  purchased  by 
Pojie  Julius  II. 

Apollodo'ros.  Plato  says  :  ' '  Who 
Would  not  rather  be  a  man  of  sorrows 
than  Apollodoros,  envied  by  all  for  his 
enormous  wealth,  yet  nourishing  in  his 
heart  the  scorpions  of  a  guilty  con- 
science?" {The  ItepnMic).  This  Apollo- 
doros was  the  tyrant  of  Cassan'drea 
(formerly  I'otii/c'o).  He  obtained  tho 
sui)reme  power  li.c.  379,  exercised  it 
with  tlio  utmost  cruelty,  and  was  i)ut  to 
death  by  Autig  onos  Gou'atas. 

ApoUo'nius.  Master  of  the  Rosi- 
crucians.  He  is  said  to  have  had  the 
power  of  raising  the  dead,  of  making 
himself  invisible,  and  of  being  iu  two 
places  at  the  same  time. 

ApoU'yon.  King  of  the  bottomless  pit. 
(Rev.  ix.  11.)  His  contest  with  Chris- 
tian, in  Bunyan's  allegory,  has  made  his 
name  familiar.     (Greek,  the  dentrojer.) 

Apostate  {The).  Julian,  the  Roman 
emperor.  So  called  because  he  forsook 
the  Christian  faith  and  returned  to 
Paganism  again.     (331,  361-3(33.) 

A  posteriori  [Latin,  from  the  latter]. 
An  rt  posteriori  argument  is  proving  the 
cause  from  the  effect.  Thus,  if  we  .see 
a  watch,  we  conclude  there  was  a  watch- 
maker. Robinson  Crusoe  inferred  there 
was  another  human  being  on  the  desert 
island,  because  lie  saw  a  human  foot- 
print in  the  wet  sand.  It  is  thus  the  ex- 
istence and  chai'acter  of  Deity  is  inferred 
from  his  works.     {See  A  PEiOEt.) 

Apostles.  The  badges  or  symbols  of 
the  fourteen  apostles. 

Andrew,  n  cross,  hecauso  lie  was  crucified  on  a 
cross  shaped  like  tUe  letter  x. 

Bartliiiloniew,  a  kiiife,  because  he  was  flayed 
with  a  knife. 

•iMuics  I  lie  (Ireater,  a  scaUnp-slieV,  a  pilgrim's 
fit(iff,iir  II  i/oiird  buttle,  heciiwse  he  is  the  patron 
saiiLt  of  pilu-riins.    (.See  ScAl.l.op-SKKi.r,.) 

James  the  Less,  a  fullers  pule,  because  he  was 
killed  by  a  blow  (jn  the  head  with  a  pole,  dealt 
him  by  .Simeon  the  fuller. 

.lohii,  (I  ciiii  iritli  a  iriiuii  d  serpent  flyiiHi  out  of  it, 
in  allusion  to  the  tradition  about  Aristode'mos, 
piiest  of  Diana,  wlio  rlialli'MLri'il  .lohn  to  drink  a 
cup  of  iioison.  .lohn  made  the  siKU  of  a  cross  on 
the  cup,  iSatan  like  a  ilrai,'on  Hew  from  it,  and 
John  then  drank  the  cuts  which  was  ipiite  in- 
nocuous. 

Judas  Iscariot,  n.  fcixs,  because  he  had  the  has 
and  "  bare  what  was  put  therein  "  (John  xii.  fi). 

J  nde,  a  club,  because  he  was  martyred  with  a  club. 

Matthew,  a  hatchet  or  kiilbert,  because  he  was 
slain  at  Nad'abar  with  a  halbert. 

Matthias,  a  battle-axe,  because  he  was  first 
stoned,  and  then  beheaded  with  a  battle-axe. 


Apostles 


m 


Apparel 


Paul,  a  su-ord,  liecause  Lis  head  was  cutoff  witli 
a  swdnl.  'fhe  eonveut  of  La  Lisla,  in  Siiain, 
Ijoasts  iif  imssessinw  the  vci'y  iustruuient. 

I'fiL'V,  a  hunch  »/ /,vi/,s-. because  Clirist  gave  him 
the  "keys  ci{  ihe  kiui-'iiiiiii  uf  lie;iveu."  A  cock, 
because  he  weut  nut  and  wept  liilterly  wheu  he 
heard  the  cock  Cfovv.     (Matt,  x.xvi.  73.) 

I'hilip,  II  hiiig  !<t(iff  sKniwunted  with  a  cross,  he- 
eause  he  suffered  ik'ath  liy  being  suspended  hy 
the  neck  to  a  tall  iiillar. 

Siiuou,  (I  aiiw,  because  he  was  sawn  to  death, 
acciirdiu;-,'  tn  trailiiiuu. 

Thomas,  a  dr/icc,  because  he  was  pierced 
thriiui-'h  tlie  body,  at  Mel'iapour,  with  a  lance. 

{St'C  EVANGKLISTS.) 

Apostles,  where  buried.  Accord- 
ing to  Catholic  legend,  seven  of  the 
Apostles  are  buried  at  Rome.  These 
seven  are  distinguished  by  a  star  (*). 

Andrew  Ties  buried  at  Amalfl  (Naplesi. 

liAitTHOLOMEW,*  at  Kome,  iu  the  church  of 
Ban.hiilouu'w  Island,  on  the  Tiber. 

James  tiik  (iKEATEii  was  buried  at  St.  Jagode 
t'<]iiiiiosteUa,  in  Spain. 

.lA.MEs  TUK  Less,  *  at  Rome,  in  the  church  of 
the  Holy  Apostles. 

.loHN,  at  Kphesus. 

.If  111-:,*  at  Kome. 

JlATTHEW,  at  Salerno  (Naples). 

Matthias,*  at  Rome,  uiuler  the  altar  of  the 
Basilica. 

I'ALL,  somewhere  in  Italy. 

PETEii,*  at  Rome,  iu  the  church  of  St.  Peter. 

Philip,*  at  Rome. 

Si.MOX  or  SiMBox,*  at  Rome. 

Tho.mas,  at  OrtSna  (Naples;).    (?  Madi-as.) 

II  Maiik  the  EvASGELisT  is  Said  to  have  been 
buried  at  Venice. 

LiUvE  the  EvAXtiELiST  is  Said  to  have  been 
buried  at  I'adua. 

N.  1!.— H.ily  claims  thirteen  of  these  apostles  or 
evau'-'elisis— Home  seven,  Naples  three,  Paul 
soii.ewhere  in  Italy,  Mark  at  Venice,  Luke  at 
Padua. 


Apostles  of 


Ahiissui'uiiis,  St.  Frumentius.  (Fourth  century.) 

Ml>>:,  Felix  Xetr.    (irus-lsiH.) 

Aiihaiiix.iil.  Huliert.    ((5.50-7311.) 

ArnieitiaiiK,  (4ret,'ory  of  Armenia.    (256-331.) 

/,'/;!///.<;;,  St.  Aui-'ustine.    (Died  607.)    St.  George. 

KUuopia.    (.S'tf  AitvssixiAXS.) 

Free  Traile,  Richard  Cobden.    (180-1-1865.) 

French,  St.  Denis.    (Thinl  century.) 

Frisicum.at.  Wilbrod.    ((K7-7:W.-) 

Gauls,  St.  IrenaiUS  (130-200) ;  St.  Martin.  (316- 
3'.I7.) 

dentlh's.fit.  Paul. 

(ii  rminiii.f^l.  lioiiiface.    (6S(V7.t5.1 

Jli(lhhlii,l,r.-<,!>1.  Columb.     (.521-,i<l7.) 

Jlihif/arii,  St.  Aiiastatius.     («5-l-104-i.1 

Jndiii.ns  (American),  Bartolome  de  Las  Casas 
(1474-l.WO);  Rev.  John  Eliot.  (1U03-16UO.) 

Indies  (ICcisO,  St.  Francis  Xavier.    (15(06-15.52.) 

In/irielitii.  Voltaire.    (1694-1778.) 

Ireland,  St.  Patrick.    (372-4H3.) 

Netheiiands,  St.  Armaud,  Bishop  of  Maestricht. 
(5S!I  t'i7'.t. ) 

Xnrth,  St.  Aussar  or  Auscariug  (801-864)  ;  Ber- 
nard (iilpin.    (1.517-1583.) 

I'irts,  St.  Ninian. 

,s'.-„»;,s/,  Ile/„rmers.. lohn  Knox.    (1.505-1572.) 

,s7i(r.v,  SI.  Cvril.    i  Die.i  sc.s.) 

,s';)(!iyi,  St.  James  I  lie  (ireater.     (Died  44.1 

Triiiprniiue,  Father  Malhew.    (I7!i0-18.56.1 

iiirlishire,  Paiili'nus,  bishop  of  York  and 
Rochester.    (.597-644.) 

)Vedes,  St.  David.    (480-544.) 

K  TJic  Tivelvc  Apostles.  The  last  twelve 
names  on  the  poll  or  list  of  ordinary  de- 
grees vs'ere  so  called,  wheu  the  list  was 
arranged  in  order  of  merit,  and  not 
al})habetically,  as  now  ;  they  were  also 
called  the  CIioscu  Twelve.    The  last  of  the 


twelve  was  designated  Ht.  Fdiil  from  a 
play  on  the  verse  1  Cor.  xv.  9.  The  same 
term  is  now  applied  to  the  last  twelve 
in  the  Mathematical  Tripos. 

Apostle  of  the  tSicord.  So  Mahomet 
was  called,  becau,se  he  enforced  liis  creed 
at  the  point  of  the  sword.     (570-032.) 

Friiiee  of  the  Apostles.  St.  Peter. 
(Mtvtt.  xvi.  18,  19.) 

Apostle  Spoons.  Spoons  formerly 
given  at  christenings  ;  so  called  because 
one  of  the  apostles  figured  at  the  top  of 
the  handle.  Sometimes  twelve  sjioons, 
representing  the  twelve  apostles  ;  some- 
times four,  representing  the  four  evan- 
gelists ;  and  sometimes  only  one,  was 
presented.  Sometimes,  but  very  rarely, 
a  set  occurs  containing  in  addition  the 
"  Master  Spoon  "  and  the  "  Lady 
Spoon."  We  still  give  at  christenings 
a  silver  sjioon,  though  the  apostolic 
handle  is  no  longer  retained. 

Apostles'  Creed  (T/ic).  A  church 
creed  supposed  to  be  an  epitome  of 
Scripture  doctrines,  or  doctrines  tauglit 
by  the  apostles.  It  was  received  into 
the  Latin  Church,  in  its  present  form, 
in  tlie  eleventh  century  ;  but  a  formula 
somewhat  like  it  existed  in  the  second 
century.  Items  vere  added  iu  the 
fourth  and  fifth  ceutiuies,  and  verbal 
alterations  much  later. 

•.•  It  is  said  that  Tullo,  Bishop  of  Antioch,  in- 
troduced the  fr, ed  as  )iart  of  the  daily  service  in 
471. 

Apostolic  Fathers.  Christian  au- 
thors born  in  the  hrst  centuiy,  wheu  the 
apostles  lived.  John  is  sui>posed  to 
have  died  about  a.d.  99,  and  Polycarp, 
the  last  of  the  Apostolic  Fathers,  born 
about  80,  was  his  discijile.  These  three 
are  tolerably  certain  :  Clement  of  Rome 
(30-100),  Ignatius  (died  llo),  and  Poly- 
carp (80-169).  Three  others  are  Barna- 
bas, Hermas,  and  Papias.  Barnabas 
was  the  companion  of  Paul,  Hermas  is  a 
very  doubtful  name,  and  Papias  (Bp.  of 
Hienipolis)  is  mentioned  by  Eusebius. 

'.'  Polycarp  could  hardly  have  been  a 
disciple  of  John,  although  he  might  have 
received  Christinn  instruction  from  the 
old  "beloved  one." 

Apostol  ic  Majesty.  A  title  borne 
by  the  Emperor  of  Austria,  as  King  of 
Hungaiy.  It  was  conferred  V)y  Pope 
Sylvester  II.  on  the  Khig  of  Hungary 
in  1000. 

Apparel.  Dress.  The  ornamental 
parts  of  the  alb,  at  the  lower  edge  and 
at  the  wrists.  Catechu'mens  used  to 
talk  of  putting  on  their  apparels,  or  fine 


Appeal 


57 


Apple-pie  Bed 


white  surplices,  for  the  feast  of  Pente- 
cost. 

Pugin  says:  "The  albe  should  lie  made  witli 
aiiparels  worked  in  silk  or  gold,  erahroideied  with 
orii.iinents." 

Hock  tells  us—"  That  apparels  were  stitclifd  ou 
the  upper  part  of  tlie  amice,  like  a  collar  to  it. " 

Appeal  to  the  Country  (An). 
Asking  electors  by  their  clioice  of  repre- 
sentatives to  express  their  opinion  of 
some  moot  question.  In  order  to  obtain 
the  public  opinion  Parliament  is  dissolved, 
and  a  new  election  must  be  made. 

Appiades  (4  syl.).  Five  divinities 
wliose  temple  stood  near  the  fountains 
of  Ap'pius,  in  Koine.  Their  names  are 
Venus,  Pallas,  Concord,  Peace,  and 
Vesta.  They  were  represented  on  horse- 
back, like  Amazons. 

Ap'pian  Way.  Tlie  oldest  and  best 
of  all  tlie  Roman  roads,  leading  from  the 
I'orta  Cupc'iKi  of  Rome  to  Capua.  This 
"queen  of  roads"  was  commenced  by 
Appius  Claudius,  the  ilecemvir,  B.C. 
3i;i. 

Apple  {Xctrfo/i  find  tin).  Voltaire 
tells  us  that  Mrs.  Conduit,  Newton's 
niece,  told  him  that  Newton  was  at 
Woolsthorpe,  when,  seeing  an  apple  fall, 
he  was  led  into  a  train  of  thought 
which  resulted  in  his  discovery  of  gravi- 
tation (166G). 

His  iiiotlier  had  married  a  Rev,  15.  Siiiitli.and 
in  IffiO  had  returned  to  Wool»th(jrpe.  Her  ttraiid- 
daughter  was  the  wife  of  Mr.  Conduit,  who  suc- 
ceeded Newton  in  the  Mint.  Newton  was  on  a 
visit  to  hia  mother. 

The  apph  of  discord.  A  cause  of 
dispute ;  something  to  contend  about. 
At  the  marriage  of  Thetis  and  Pe'leus, 
where  all  the  gods  and  goddesses  met 
together.  Discord  threw  on  the  table  a 
golden  apple  "for  the  most  beautiful." 
Juno,  Minerva,  and  Venus  put  in  their 
separate  claims ;  and  not  being  able  to 
settle  the  point,  referred  the  question 
to  Paris,  who  gave  judgment  in  favour 
of  Venus.  This  brought  upon  him  the 
vengeance  of  Juno  and  Minerva,  to 
whose  spite  the  fall  of  Troy  is  attributed. 

"  The  "  apple  "  plays  a  large  part  in 
Greek  story.  Besides  the  "  Apple  of 
Discord,"  related  above,  we  have  the 
three  apples  thrown  down  by  Hippo- 
mSnes  when  he  raced  with  Atalanta. 
The  story  says  that  Atalanta  stopped  to 
pick  up  the  apples,  whereby  Kijjpo- 
mSnes  won  the  race,  and  according  to 
the  terms  obtained  her  for  wife. 

Then  there  are  the  golden  apples  of 
the  Hesperides,  guarded  by  a  sleepless 
dragon  with  a  hundred  heads ;  but 
Hercules  slew  the  dragon   and   carried 


some  of  the  apples  to  Eurystheus. 
This  was  the  twelfth  and  last  of  Ids 
"labours." 

Of  course,  the  Bible  story  of  Eve  and 
the  Apple  will  be  familiar  to  every 
reader  of  this  dictionary. 

Apples  of  Istakhar'  are  "  all  sweetness 
on  one  side,  and  all  bitterness  on  the 
other." 

Apples  of  I'liradisc,  according  to  tradi- 
tion, had  a  bite  on  one  side,  to  com- 
memorate the  bite  given  by  Eve. 

Apples  of  Fjibdn,  says  Sir  John  Mande- 
ville,  fed  the  pigmies  with  their  odour 
only. 

Apples  of  Sudoiii.  Thevenot  says — 
"  There  are  apple-trees  on  the  sides  of 
the  Dead  Sea  which  bear  lovely  fruit, 
but  within  are  full  of  ashes."  Josephus 
speaks  of  these  apples.  Witman  says 
the  same  is  asserted  of  the  oranges  there. 
(See  Tacitus,  Hist.,  v.  7.) 

"  Like  to  the  apples  on  the  Dead  Sea's  shore. 
All  ashes  to  the  taste." 

Byron:  Chihie  Ilaruld,  iii.  31. 

T/ic  apple  of  perpetual  i/out/i.  This  is 
the  apple  of  Idun,  daughter  of  the 
dwarf  Svald,  and  wife  of  Bragi.  It  is 
by  tasting  this  apple  that  the  gods  pre- 
serve their  perpetual  youth.  (^Scaiutdi- 
ariaii  mythologi/.) 

The  siiigiiifj  apple  had  the  power  of 
persuading  any  one  to  anything,  {t'hcnj 
and  Fairstar :  Coantess  IP Aiiois.) 

Prince  Ahmed's  apple  —  a  cure  for 
every  disorder.  This  apple  the  prince 
purchased  at  Samarcaud'.  {Arabian 
Si(/hts,  I'rince  Ahmed,  etc.) 

The  apple  of  the  eye.  The  pupil,  of 
which  perhaps  it  is  a  corruption.  If 
not,  it  is  from  an  erroneous  notion  that 
the  little  black  spot  of  the  eye  is  a  little 
round  solid  ball  like  an  apple.  Any- 
thing extremely  dear  or  extremely  sen- 
sitive. 

"He  kept  him  as  the  apple  of  his  eye."— Ueiit. 
xx.\ii. :). 

Apple-john  {An).  An  apple  so 
called  from  its  being  at  maturity  about 
St.  John's  Day  (May  6th).  We  are  told 
that  apple-johns  will  keep  for  two 
years,  and  are  best  when  shrivelled. 

"  I  am  withered  like  an  old  apiile-johu." 

Shakespeaie:  1  Hviirii  IV.  ill.  .■?. 

■  •  Sometimes  called  the  .\p)>les  of  King  Jidin, 
wliich,  if  correct,  woulil  militate  agaiust  the 
iiotii.n  alHiut  "  St.  .ruhn's  Day." 

"There  were  some  tilings,  for  instance,  the 
Apples  of  Kiut-' .Inhn,  .  .  .  I  sIkuiM  be  tempted 
U.,\iu\,:'-!ihjeh>,c:LiAo/!I.Fi;iiildiii 

■  ■  In  the  fuitfd  States  there  is  a  drink  called 
"  Apple-Jack,"  which  is  aiiple  or  cider  brandy. 

Apple-pie  Bed.  A  bed  in  which  the 
sheets  are  so  folded  that  a  person  cannot 


Apple-pie  Order 


58 


Aquarians 


get  his  legs  down ;  from  the  apple 
turnover ;  or,  more  jirobably,  a  corrup- 
tion of  "  a  nap-pe-pli  bed."  (French, 
nappe  pl\h\  a  folded  sheet.) 

Apple-pie  Order.  Prim  and  precise 
order. 

Tlie  origin  of  this  phrase  is  still 
doubtful.  Some  suggest  eap-a-pie, 
like  a  knight  in  complete  armour.  Some 
toll  us  that  apples  made  into  a  pie  are 
(juartered  and  methodically  arranged 
when  the  cores  have  been  taken  out. 
I'erha.ps  the  suggestion  made  above  of 
iiap-pc-pli  (French,  va/ipes  plmw,  folded 
linen,  neat  as  folded  linen,  Latin,  plico, 
to  fold)  is  nearer  the  mark. 

It  has  also  beeu  suggested  tlmt  "  Apple-iiie 
order"  may  be  a  coivuptiioi  of  ali>ha.  lietu,  meau- 
iiij;  as  orderly  as  rlie  letters  of  tlic  alplialiet. 

"EverylbiiiK  l>riirJ;  ui  ;ipiile-i>ii'  (inli>r,  .  .  .  Dr. 
JobusuM  .  .  .  piMi'osfd  ni;il  wi'sliniiblaccnnipaTiy 
liim  ...  to  >riassa's  kraal.' —-U(c</(^(/<s  i«  J/iis/i- 
vnahmil,  p.  L"Jt  US.i3;. 

April.  The  opening  month,  when 
the  trees  luifold,  and  the  womb  of 
nature  opens  with  young  life.  (Latin, 
apcri're,  to  open.) 

April  Fool.  Called  in  France  tin 
poinxoii  iPArrtl  {q.i\),  and  in  Scotland  a 
(jowk  (cuckoo).  In  Hindustan  similar 
tricks  are  played  at  the  Huli  Festival 
(March  31st).  So  that  it  cannot  refer 
to  tlie  uncertainty  of  the  weather,  nor 
yet  to  the  mockery  trial  of  our  Redeemer, 
the  two  most  pojjular  explanations.  A 
better  solution  is  this :  As  March  '2oth 
used  to  be  New  Year's  Bay,  April  1st 
was  its  octave,  when  its  festivities 
culminated  and  ended. 

For  the  same  reason  that  the  "Mockery  of 
Jesiis"  is  rejected  as  a  soUuion  of  this  custom, 
the  tradition  that  it  arose  from  Noah  sending  out 
the  dove  on  the  first  of  the  month  may  be  set 
aside. 

Perliaps  it  may  lie  a  relic  of  the  Roman 
"  Cerealia,"  held  at  the  liefe'iniiing  of  April.  The 
tale  is  tliat  ProJcrpinii  was  spnrtin.!,'  in  the  Elysiaii 
meadows,  anil  had  just  filled  her  lap  \viih  daffo- 
dils, when  I'liUii  lairicd  her  off  fo  the  lower 
World.  Her  mot lier,  t'eie.;,  heard  the  echo  of  her 
screams,  and  went  in  search  of  "  the  voice  ;"  but 
lier  search  was  a  fool's  errand,  it  was  hunting 
the  gowk,  or  looking  for  the  "  eclio  of  a  scream." 

■.■  Of  course  this  fable  is  an  allegory  of  seed- 
time. 

Mij  April  morn  —  i.e.  my  wedding 
day ;  the  day  when  I  was  made  a  fool 
of.  The  allusion  is  to  the  custom  of 
making  fools  of  each  other  on  the  1st  of 
April. 

April   Gentleman    (An).      A    man 

newly  married,  who  has  made  himself 
thus  "an  April  fool." 

April  Squire  {An).  A  norn.^  homo. 
A  man  who  has  accumulated  money, 
and  has  retired  into  the  country,  where 


his  money  may  give  him  the  position  of 
a  squire. 

A  prio'ri  [Latin,  from  an  anteeedent]. 
An  a  priori  argument  is  when  we 
deduce  a  fact  from  something  ante- 
cedent, as  when  we  infer  certain  effects 
from  given  causes.  All  mathematical 
proofs  are  of  the  a  priori  kiud,  whereas 
judgments  in  the  law  courts  are  of  the 
a  posteriori  eviilence;  we  infer  the  animus 
from  the  act.     {See  A  postekiori.) 

Apron.  This  is  a  strange  blunder. 
A  napperon,  converted  into  An  apperon. 
"  Nappta-ou  "  is  French  for  a  napkin, 
from  nappe  (cloth  in  general).  Halliwell, 
in  his  Arehaic  JJictionari/,  p.  571,  gives 
Napperu  (an  apron)  Korlli. 

(iihcr  example's  of  »  attached  to  the  fidlnwing 
niuiii,  or  (let;irlieil  fr.ULi  it,  are  an  (uhlef  for  a 
nadder  (Old  English,  i/ip./i/cc-;  a  vent  for  an  iwt; 
A  iiiuj  (l)Miiish,  iHf)  :  viiiirh-  iShakespeaiei,  mine 
uncle  ;  For  the  »/>»cc  (Ibis  once.,  whe  eii  is  trans- 
ferred from  the  preceding  pronoun  tlia-ii  urilie-n, 
i.e.  Iliis-n  (accusali\e  case  after  "for  "). 

Apron- String  Tenure  {An).  A 
tenure  held  in  virtue  of  one's  wife. 

Tied  to  hin  mot/ier''s apron-.strinf/,  com- 
jjletely  under  his  mother's  thumb. 
Applied  to  a  big  boy  or  young  man  who 
is  fetill  under  mother  rule. 

A  propos  de  bottes  (French). 
Turning  to  quite  another  subject;  d 
propos  de  rien. 

Aqua  Re'gia  [roi/al  trater'].  So  called 
because  it  dissolves  gold,  the  liny  of 
metals.  It  consists  of  (me  part  of  nitric 
acid,  with  from  two  to  four  of  hydro- 
chloric acid. 

Aqua  Tofana  or  Acquu  Tofunua.  A 
poisonous  li(juid  much  used  in  Italy  in 
the  seventeenth  century  by  young  wives 
who  wanted  to  get  rid  of  their  husbands. 
It  was  invented  by  a  woman  named 
Tofana,  who  called  it  the  Manna  of  St. 
Nicholas  of  liari,  from  the  widespread 
notion  that  an  oil  of  miraculous  efficacy 
flowed  from  the  tomb  of  that  saint.  In 
Italian  called  also  Aqiiella  di  Xupjli. 

Aqua  Vitse  [trater  of  life].  Certain 
ardent  .spirits  used  by  the  alchemists. 
Ben  Jouson  terms  a  seller  of  ardent 
spirits  an  "  aqua-vitfe  man"  {Al- 
elieinist.  i.  1).  The  "elixir  of  life"  was 
made  from  distilled  spirits,  which  were 
tliought  to  have  the  power  of  prolonging 
life.     {See  P]au-de-Vie.) 

Aquarians.  A  sect  in  the  early 
Christian  Church  which  insisted  on  the 
use  of  water  instead  of  wine  in  the 
Lord's  Supper. 


Aqaarius 


S9 


Arbaces 


Aqua'rius  [the  tvater-bearer'].  Oue 
of  the  signs  of  the  zodiac  (January  20th 
to  February  18th).  So  called  because  it 
appears  when  the  Nile  begins  to  over- 
flow. 

Aqueous  Rocks.  Eocks  produced 
by  the  agency  of  water,  such  as  bedded 
limestones,  sandstones,  and  clays  ;  in 
short,  all  the  geological  rocks  which  are 
arranged  in  laj'ers  or  strata. 

Aq'uilant    (in    Ovhunh)  Fiiriou)).     A 

knight  in  Charlemagne's  amiy,  S(jn  of 
(Jlive'ro  and  Sigismunda.  He  was  called 
black  from  his  armour,  and  his  brother 
Gryphon  wliitr.  While  Aquilant  was 
searching  for  his  brother  he  met  Martano 
in  Gryphon's  annour,  and  took  him 
bound  to  Damascus,  where  his  brother 
was. 

Aquiline  (3syl.).  Raymond's  match- 
less steed,  bred  on  the  banks  of  the 
Tagus.  {GcorgicK,  iii.  271-277;  and 
Tdsso,  Jernsalfiii  Ikl'ivervd,  book  vii.) 
(6te  Horse.) 

Aquinian  Sage  {TJie).  Ju'venal  is 
so  called  because  he  was  born  at  Aqui'- 
num,  a  town  of  the  Volscians. 

Arabesque  [^-i  rr«if.vA-] .  The  gor- 
geous Moorish  jjatterns,  like  those  in 
the  Alhambra,  esx>ecially  employed  in 
architectural  decoration.  During  the 
Spanish  wars,  in  the  reign  of  Louis 
XIV.,  arabesque  decorations  were  i)ro- 
fusely  introduced  into  France.  (French, 
'•  Arab-like.") 

Arabian  Bird  (T/ic).    The  jiha-uix  ; 
a  marvellous  man,  quite  aid  goicr'ts. 
"O  Antdu.v  !  0  tliim  Araljiaii  liiid  I" 
Siiiikfupeate  :  Antuiiij  and  Ctecpdtra.  iii.  ■_'. 

Arabian  Nights  {The).  First  made 
known  in  Europe  b}'  Autoine  Gallaud,  a 
French  Oriental  scholar,  who  translated 
them  and  called  them  The  Thonsand  and 
One  Nu/h  ts  (from  the  number  of  nights 
occupied  in  their  i-ecital).  They  are  of 
Indian,  Persian,  Egyptian,  and  Arabian 
origin. 

Common  English  translations — 

4  vols.   IL'nin,   179'-',  by    K.   Herou,  iniblisLeJ  in 

Edinburgli  :iii(l  Ldinlcni. 
3  vols.  121110, 17'.i4,  liy  Mr.  Beloe,  London. 

„        „       IT'.i.i,  by   Kiciiard  Gough,  enlarged. 
Paris  edition. 

5  vols.  8VO,  ISOL",  by  Rev.  Edward  Foster. 

„        „      1830,  by  Edw.  Wm.  Lane. 

The  Tales  of  the  Genii,  by  Sir  Charles 
Morell  {i.e.  Rev.  James  Ridley),  are 
excellent  imitations. 

Arabians.  A  class  of  Arabian  here- 
tics of  the  third  century,  who  maintained 
that  the  soul  dies  with  the  b:)dy. 


Ar'abic  Figures.  The  figures  1,  2, 
3,  4,  etc.  So  called  because  they  were 
introduced  into  Europe  (Spain)  by  the 
Moor.s  or  Arabs,  who  learnt  them  from 
the  Hindus.  Far  more  important  than 
the  characters,  is  the  decimalism  of  these 
tigui-es  :  I  figure  —  units,  2  figures  = 
tens,  3  figures  =  hundreds,  and  so  on  ad 
itijinituin. 

The  figures  i,  ii,  iii,  iv,  v,  vi,  vii,  viii,  i.v,  x,  etc., 
are  called  Roman  Bgiires. 

Tbe  (irceks  arrani-'ed  their  tltriires  innier  three 
Culiiiiins  nf  nine  ll^'urrs,  iiiiits,  tens,  and  hun- 
dreds, and  enjiiluyrd  t  lie  letter.s  c.f  the  alpliabet. 
As  there  are  hut  twenty-four  letters, a  siusculotie 
letter  had  to  he  iiilruduei'ii  iiitii  e.o-h  euluiun. 
Iji  the  units  i-oluinn  it  represeuied  i;.  ami  w.is 
I, ailed  f}>'isriniiii.  hit  lie  feTiseohniin  it  rei>re^eiuei| 
'.HI,  and  was  called  /,../i;/,..<.  .\iid:  in  the  third 
ciilunin  it  reinvseulcd  uoo,  and  was  called  saiiin. 
Thonsands  were  ri'i'icseiited  by  a  dash  under 
some  letter  of  the  liisi  three  coluiiius  : 
As,  ^  =  :■,  hut  fi  =  u.uoo  ; 

e  =  5,  but  e  =  5,0(X); 
O-  =  :00,  but  cr  =  ^X1,l>X) ; 
and  so  on. 

Ar'abs.  Street  Arabs.  The  houseless 
pf)or  ;  street  cliildren.  So  called  because, 
like  the  Arabs,  they  are  nomads  or 
wanderers  with  no  settled  home. 

Arachne's  Labours.  Spinning  and 
weaving.  Arachue  was  so  skilful  a 
needlewoman  that  she  challenged 
Minerva  to  a  trial  of  skill,  and  hanged 
herself  because  the  goddess  beat  her. 
Minerva  then  changed  her  into  a  spider. 

"  Araclines  labours  ne'er  l<er  h.uirs  di\  ide. 
Her  noble  hands  nor  hxnns  imi-  siiiinllcs  Lfulde.' 
Hoole's  Jerufaleni  J)i  lin  nd,  hook  ii. 

A'raf,  Al  [the  partition].  A  region, 
according  to  the  Koran,  between  Para- 
dise and  Jeheuuam,  for  those  who  are 
neither  morally  good  nor  bad,  such  as 
infants,  lunatics,  and  idiots.  The  in- 
mates of  Al  Araf  will  be  allowed  to  con- 
verse with  the  blessed  and  the  cunsed ; 
to  the  former  this  region  will  appear  a 
hell,  to  the  latter  a  heaven.  (S:e 
Limbo.) 

Aras'pes  (in  Jerusalem  Delivered), 
King  of  Ale.xandria,  more  famed  for 
devices  than  courage.  He  joined  the 
Egyptian  annament  against  the  Cru- 
saders. 

Ara'tos  of  Achasa,  in  Greece,  mur- 
dered Nic'ocles,  the  tyrant,  in  order  to 
restore  his  country  to  liberty,  and  would 
not  allow  even  a  picture  of  a  king  to 
exist.  He  was  jjoisoued  by  PliiJip  of 
Macedon. 

"  .^ratus,  who  awhile  relumed  the  soul 
Of  fondly-lingering  lilierty  in  (Greece." 

Tliumsnii :  Winter,  4yl,  4Ui'. 

Arba'ces  (3  syl.).  A  Mede  and  As- 
sj'iiau    satrap,   who    conspired    against 


Arbor  Day 


60 


Arckimedes  Screw 


Sardanapa'lus,  and  founded  the  empire 
of  Me'clia  on  the  ruins  of  the  Assyrian 
kingdom.     {Bi/ron  :  SayclanapalusJ) 

Arbor  Day.  A  day  set  apart  in 
Canada  and  tlie  United  States  for  plant- 
ing trees.  (See  Historic  Note  Book, 
p.  42.) 

Arbor  Judse.  Said  to  be  so  called 
b3cause  Judas  Iscariot  hanged  himself 
thereon.  This  is  one  of  those  word-re- 
semblances so  delusive  to  etymologists. 
Judffi  is  the  Spanish  jud'ia  (a  French 
beau),  and  Arbor  Judtc  is  a  coiTuption 
of  Arbol  Ji(dia  (the  beau-tree),  so  called 
from  its  bean-like  pods. 

Arcades  Ambo  [Amides  3  syl.], 
both  sweet  innocents  or  simpletons, 
both  Verdant  Greens.  From  Virgil's 
lu-lor/Hc,  vii.  r.  4.  {l^ec  below,  Arcadiax 
Youth.)  Byron's  translation  was 
"blackguards  Vjoth." 

Arcadian.  A  shepherd,  a  fancy 
farmer  ;  so  called  because  the  Arcadiaus 
were  a  pastoral  people,  and  hence  pas- 
toral poeti'y  is  called  Arcci'die. 

All  Arcadian  youth.  A  dunce  or 
blockhead ;  so  called  because  the  Arca- 
dians were  the  least  intellectual  of  all 
tlie  Greeks.  Juvenal  (vii.  IGO)  uses  the 
phrase  Arcadlcns  jiiveiiis  fur  a  stupid 
fool. 

Arcadian  Nightingales.    Asses. 
"  April  is  the  nioiitU  of  love  ;  and  llie  country 
of  Cbastelleniiui  abouncls  with  Avcailian  nit,'htin- 
U;\\ei."— Rabelais :  Pantagitid.  v.  7  (note). 

Archangels.  According  to  the  Koran, 
there  are  four  archangels.  Ga'briel,  the 
angel  of  revelations,  who  writes  down 
the  divine  decrees  ;  Mi'chael,  the  cham- 
pion, who  fights  the  battles  of  faith ; 
Az'rael,  the  angel  of  death  ;  and  Az'rafil, 
who  is  commissioned  to  soimd  the  trum- 
pet of  tlie  resurrection. 

Arch-monarch  of  the  World.  Na- 
poleon III.  of  France.  (1808,  18  J'2-1870, 
dud  187;5.) 

Archers.  The  best  archers  in  British 
history  and  story  are  Robin  Hood  and 
liis  two  comrades  Little  John  and  Will 
Scarlet. 

The  famous  archers  of  Henry  II.  were 
Tepus  his  bowman  of  the  Guards, 
Gilbert  of  the  white  hind,  Hubert  of 
Suffolk,  and  Clifton  of  Hampshire. 

Nearly  equal  to  these  were  Egbert  of 
Kent  and  William  of  Southampton. 

Uoniitian,  the  llonian  eniperor.  we  are  tohi, 
coul<l  shoot  fcinr  arrows  between  the  spreail 
lUifrers  of  a  man's  liand. 

Tell,  who  shot  an  apiile  set  on  tlie  heafl  of  Iris 
son,  is  a  replica  of  the  Scandinavian  tale  of  Efe'il, 


who,  at  the  command  of  KiugNidung,  performed 
a  precisely  similar  feat. 

Uohiu  Hood,  we  are  told,  could  shoot  an  arrow 
a  mile  or  more. 

Arches  {The  Court  of).  The  most 
ancient  consistory  court  of  England,  the 
dean  of  which  anciently  held  his  court 
under  the  arches  of  Bow  church.  Of 
course  we  refer  to  the  old  church,  the 
steeple  of  which  was  supported  on 
arches.  The  present  structin-e  was  the 
work  of  Sir  Christopher  Wren. 

Arche'us  (3  syl.),  according  to  the 
Paracelsians,  is  that  immaterial  prin- 
ciple which  energises  all  living  sub- 
stances. There  were  supposed  to  b3 
numerous  archei,  but  the  chief  one  was 
said  to  reside  in  the  stomach. 

Archiloch'ian  Bitterness.  Ill- 
natured  satire,  so  named  from  Archil'- 
ochos,  the  Grecian  satirist  (b.c.  714-676). 

Ar'chimage  (3  syl.).  The  name  given 
by  Thomson  to  the  "  demon  Indolence." 
Archimagus  is  the  title  borne  by  the 
High  Priest  of  the  Persian  Magi. 

"  '  1  will,'  lie  crie  1, '  so  help  me  God  I  destroy 
That  \illain  Arcluni^ige.'  " 

TliDiiisoii :  Caatle  of  Indolence^  c.  ii. 

Archima'go  [Hi/pocrisi/].  In  Spen- 
ser's Fui/rie  Qneene  (ii.  1).  He  assimies 
the  guise  of  the  Red  Cross  Knight,  and 
deceives  Una  ;  but  Sansloy  sets  upon 
him,  and  reveals  his  true  character. 
When  the  Red  Cross  Knight  is  about  to 
be  married  to  Una,  he  presents  himse'f 
before  the  King  of  Eden,  and  tells  him 
that  the  Knight  is  betrothed  to  Duessa. 
The  falsehood  being  exposed,  Archimago 
is  cast  into  a  vile  dungeon  (book  i.).  In 
book  ii.  the  arch-hypocrite  is  loosed 
again  for  a  season,  and  employs  Bragga- 
docchio  to  attack  the  Red  Cross  Knight. 
These  allegories  are  pretty  obvious : 
thus  the  first  incident  means  that  Truth 
{Una),  when  Piety  (the  lied  Cross 
luiiff/it)  is  absent,  is  iu  danger  of  being 
led  astray  by  Hypocrisy ;  but  any  In- 
fidel {iSansloij)  can  lay  bare  religious 
liypocrisy. 
"Such  whenas  .\rchima,go  them  <lid  view 

He  weened  w-ell  to  worke  s.ime  uncouth  wyle." 
S/ieiiser:  Fatirie  (Juuiie,  ii.  1,  St.  K. 

V  Sometimes  Spenser  emplo3^s  the 
shortened  form  "  Archimage." 

Archimedes  Principle.  The  quan- 
tity of  water  removed  by  any  body 
immersed  therein  will  equal  in  bulk  the 
l)ulk  of  the  body  immersed.  This  scien- 
tific fact  was  noted  by  the  philosopher 
Arcliime'dCs.     {See  Eureka.) 

Archimedes  Screw.  An  endless 
screw,  used  for  raising  water,  propellins 


Architect 


61 


Argantes 


ships,  etc.,  invented  by  Archime'cles  of 
Syracuse. 
Ar'chitect   of  his  own   Fortune. 

Appius  says,  '^  Fabridii  skcc  ('xhc  qiicntqnr 
fortumey  Longfellow  says,  "All  are 
architects  of  Fate."     {The  Biithhri'.) 

Axchon'tics.  Heretics  of  the  second 
century,  who  held  a  number  of  idle 
stoiies  about  creation,  which  they  attri- 
buted to  a  number  of  agents  called 
"archous.''  (Greek,  arclion,  a  prince 
or  ruler. ) 

Ar'cite  ('2  syl.).  A  young  Theban 
knight,  made  captive  by  Duke  Theseus, 
and  shut  up  with  Pal'amou  in  a  prison  at 
Athens.  Here  both  the  captives  fell  in 
love  with  Emily,  the  duke's  sister-in- 
law.  After  a  time  both  captives  gained 
their  liberty,  and  Emily  was  promised 
by  the  duke  to  the  victor  in  a  tourna- 
ment. Arcite  was  the  victor,  but,  as  he 
was  riding  to  receive  the  prize  of  his 
prowess,  he  was  thrown  from  his  horse, 
and  died.  So  Emily  became  the  bride 
of  Pal'amon.  {Chancer:  The  IvmghVn 
Tale.) 

The  story  is  perhaps  better  known 
through  Dryden's  version,  Talamon  and 
uLrcltc. 

Ar'cos  Barbs.  "War  steeds  of  Arcos, 
in  Audalu'sia,  very  famous  in  Spanish 
ballads.     (.See  Barbed  Steeds.) 

Arctic  Region  means  the  region  of 
Arctn'ros  (the  Bear  stars).  Ark  in  San- 
skrit means  "to  be  bright,"  applied  to 
stars  or  anything  bright.  The  Greeks 
translated  ark  into  arktQjii),  "  a  bear"  ; 
hence  Arctu'rus  {the  Bear  stars),  and 
Arctic  region,  the  region  where  the 
north  star  is  found. 

Arden  (Enoch).  Mr.  G.  R.  Emerson, 
in  a  letter  to  the  Athciuciim  (August 
18th,  18G6),  points  out  the  resemblance 
of  this  tale  by  Tennyson  to  one  entitled 
Homeward  Jioat/d,  by  Adelaide  Anne 
Procter,  in  a  volume  of  Lerjcnds  and 
Lyrics,  1858.  Mr.  Emerson  concludes 
his  letter  thus  :  "Atthis  point  {i.e.  when 
the  hero  sees  his  wife  '  seated  by  the 
fire,  whispering  baby  words  and  smiling 
on  the  father  of  her  child ')  Tennyson 
departs  from  the  story.  Enoch  goes 
away  broken-hearted  to  die,  without 
revealing  his  secret ;  but  Miss  Procter 
makes  the  three  recognise  each  other, 
and  the  hero  having  blessed  his  wife, 
leaves  her,  to  roam  '  over  the  restless 
ocean.'  " 

Mrs.  Gaskell's  Munchester  iTnrriarie  if  a  similar 
tale.  In  this  tale  -'Frank"  is  made  to  drown 
himself;  and  liis  wife  ttbeu  Mrs.  Opeushaw)  never 
knows  of  his  return. 


Area-sneak.  A  boy  or  girl  who 
sneaks  about  areas  to  commit  petty 
thefts. 

Areop'agus  or  Mars''  Hill.  The  seat 
of  a  famous  tribunal  in  Athens ;  so 
called  because  the  first  cause  tried  there 
was  that  of  Mars  or  Ares,  accused  by 
Neptune  of  the  death  of  his  sou  Halir- 
rhoth'ius. 

"Then  Paul  stood  in  the  midst  of  Mars'  Hill." 
—Acts  x\  ii.  TJ. 

Aretine  (3  syl.),  or  rather  Pietro 
Aretino,  patronised  bj^  Frant^ois  I.  of 
France.  A  poet  noted  for  his  dis- 
reputable life  and  licentious  verses. 
(1492-1557.) 

"[Sli;ikes|i<'are]  tried  his  band  with  Aretine  on 
a  licentious  suhjecL'—Stccvins, 

Aretin'ian  Syllables.     Ut,    re,  mi, 

fa,  sol,  la,  used  by  Guido  d'Arezzo  in 
the  eleventh  centiuy  for  his  .system  of 
hexachords.  Hexachord  means  a  scale 
of  six  notes.  They  are  the  first  syllables 
of  some  words  in  the  opening  stanza  of  a 
hymn  for  St.  John's  Day.  "  Ut  queant 
laxis  cf-souare  fibris,"  etc.  'St,  the 
seventh  note,  was  not  introduced  till  the 
seventeenth  century.  Originally  thescale 
consisted  of  six  notes  only.     {8ce  Do.) 

"  Auparavant  on  ne  se  ser\  ait  que  de  six  notes  ; 
et  on  remiila(;ait  le  »t  an  mo,\  en  de  combinaisons 
appelees  nuan'^es."  —  HouV't:  JJUtioiinarie  dei 
ficiencea,  i>.  l.iXi,  col. ;.'.) 

Argan,  a  miserly  hypochondriac.  He 
reduced  himself  to  this  dilemma  :  if  his 
apothecary  would  not  charge  less,  he 
could  not  afford  to  be  sick ;  but  if  he 
swallowed  fewer  drugs,  he  would  suffer 
in  health.  {Moliere's  Le  Malade  Lmagi- 
naire.) 

Argand'  Lamp.  A  lamp  with  a 
circular  wick,  through  which  a  current 
of  air  flows,  to  supply  oxygen  to  the 
flame,  and  increase  its  brilliancj'.  In- 
vented by  Aime  Argand,  1789. 

Argan'te  (3  syl.).  A  giantess  of  un- 
bridled licentiousness,  in  Spenser's  Faerie 
Queene,  iii.  7. 

"  That  geauntesse  Argante  is  beUight,  ; 

A  daughter  of  the  1  itans    .... 

Her  sire  T.vphoeus  was " 

Book  iii.  7,  St.  4r, 

Argan'tes  (3  syl.).  A  Circassian  of 
high  rank  and  matchless  courage,  but 
fierce  to  brutality,  and  an  ultra-despiser 
of  the  sect  of  the  Nazarenes.  He  was 
sent  as  an  ambassador  from  Egv'pt  to 
King  Al'adine.  He  and  SoljTiian  were 
by  far  the  most  doughty  of  the  Pagan 
knights.  The  former  was  slain  by 
Rinaldo,  and  the  other  by  Tancred. 
{Tasso :  Jerusalem  Delivered.) 

'■  Bonapute  stood  before  the  deputies  like  the 
Argantes  of  Ital.v'g  heroic  poet,  and  gave  tbeiu 


Argenis 


62 


Ariel 


the  choice  of  peace  and  war,  with  the  air  of  a 
supprior  beiupr,  capable  at  ouce  of  dictating  their 
fate."— .Sir  Walter  Scott. 

Argenis.  A  political  allegory  bj' 
John  Barclay,  contaiuiiig  allusious  to  the 
state  of  Europe,  and  more  especially  to 
France,  during  the  time  of  the  league. 
(1.582-1621.)     (.SVr  Utopia.) 

Ar'gentile  and  Cur'an.  Argeutile 
was  the  daugliter  of  King  Ad'elbright, 
who,  on  his  deathbed,  committed  her  in 
charge  to  King  Edel.  Edel  kept  her  a 
close  prisoner,  under  hope  of  getting 
into  his  possession  her  lands  and  do- 
minion. Curan,  the  sou  of  a  Danske 
king,  in  order  to  woo  her,  became  a 
kitchen  drudge  in  Edel's  household,  and 
Edel  resolved  to  marry  Argentile  to  this 
drudge,  but  she  fled  away.  Curan  now 
turned  shepherd,  and  fell  in  love  with  a 
neatherd's  maid,  who  turned  out  to  be 
Argeutile.  The  two  were  married,  and 
Curan  claiming  his  wife's  dominions, 
became  King  of  Northumberland,  and 
put  Edel  to  death.     {Fcrcifs  Reliqiies.) 

Argentine  Republic.  The  Republic 
of  the  Argentine,  or  Silver  River  ;  in 
other  words,  the  Confederation  of  the 
Rio  de  la  Plata. 

Arge'o  (in  Orlando  Fi<rio.io).  Baron 
of  Servia,  and  husband  of  Gabri'ua. 
He  is  a  sort  of  Potiphar.  His  wife  tried 
to  seduce  Philander,  a  young  Dutch 
knight,  and  failing  in  her  effort,  she 
accused  him  to  her  husband  of  adultery  ; 
whereupon  Arge'o  threw  the  "faithless 
guest"  into  durance.  In  the  course  of 
time  Gabri'na  implored  the  young  cap- 
tive to  defend  her  against  a  wicked 
knight  who  had  assailed  her  Anrtue. 
He  consented  to  be  her  champion,  and 
was  placed  in  concealment.  Presently 
a  knight  drew  near,  and  Philander, 
rushing  on  him,  dispatched  him  ;  but 
the  supposed  "adulterer"  w.as,  in 
reality,  Arge'o  himself ;  and  Gabri'na, 
being  now  a  widow,  was  free  to  marry 
her  Dutch  "Joseph." 

Ar'gillan  (in  Jcntsnlcm  DfliverecT). 
A  haughty,  turbulent  knight,  born  on 
the  banks  of  the  Trent.  Accusing  God- 
frey and  his  brother  of  having  murdered 
Rinaldo,  he  induced  the  Latians  to 
revolt.  The  revolt  spread  to  the  Swiss 
and  English,  but  Godfrey  succeeded  in 
restoring  order.  Argillau  was  arrested, 
but  made  his  escape,  and  was  slain  in 
battle  by  Solyman.     (Books  viii.  ix.) 

Ar  go.  A  ship  sailing  on  an  adven- 
ture. The  galley  of  Jason  that  went  in 
search  of  the  Golden  Fleece  was  so 
called,  from  the  Greek  arffos  (swift). 


Ar'gonauts.  The  sailors  of  the  ship 
An/o.  Apollo'nios  of  Rhodes  wrote  an 
epic  ijoem  on  the  subject.  (Greek,  ar//o 
naxs.) 

Argosy.  A  merchant  ship.  A  cor- 
ruption of  "  ragusea."  Ships  of  the 
largest  size  were  built  at  Ragusa  in 
Dalmatia  and  Venice. 

"  He  liatli  an  art-'osy  bound  to  Tripolis,  another 
to  the  Iiiillcs  ....  a  third  to  Mexico, a  fourth 
to  England."— .SViaVe.spfare;  Merchant  uf  Venice, 
i.X 

Argot  [Aj-'ffo'].  Slang  or  flash  lan- 
guage (French). 

"  Sans  le  (Ic  mot  d' argot)  faire  venir  du  grec  argos. 
e.(i.  coninie  Ton  a  prfetendu  avant  nous,  nous  y 
verrions  loi,'iijueniont  undiuiinute  du  vieux  mot 
(irf/H  qui  signilin,it  injure,  reproclie,  et  aussi  riise, 
p}nsxe,  subtilite."—Larchiii :  Victiiiiniaire  d' Argot. 

FranciS(jue-MichcK  however,  in  his  Philologie 
Comparee,  sa.vs,  "  L  ancienne  langue  Fran^aise 
avail  le  mot  argii,  mais  dans  un  sens  hien  differ- 
ent, c)ue  ron'peut  etahlir  paries  passjiges  suivaut 
.    .    ."    He  then  givi's  five  examples. 

Ar'gus-eyed.  Jealously  watchful. 
According  to  Grecian  fable,  Argos  had 
100  eyes,  and  Juno  set  him  to  watch  lo, 
of  whom  she  was  jealous. 

Argyle  (2  syl.) — of  whom  Thomson 
says,  in  his  Axtumn  (928-30) — 

"On  thee,  Arg.vle, 

Her  hope,  her  stay,  her  darling,  and  her  hoast, 

Thy  fond,  imploring  country  turns  her  eye—" 

was  John,  the  great  duke,  who  lived 
only  two  years  after  he  succeeded  to  the 
dukedom.  Pope  {Ep.  Sat.  ii.  86,  87) 
says — 

"Argyle  the  state'.s  whole  thunder  born  to  wield, 
Ami  shake  alike  the  senate  and  the  field.'' 

Arians.  The  followers  of  Arius,  a, 
presbyter  of  the  church  of  Alexandria, 
in  the  fourth  century.  He  maintaiued 
(1)  that  the  Father  and  Son  are  distinct 
beings ;  (2)  that  the  Son,  though  divine, 
is  not  equal  to  the  Father  ;  (3)  that  the 
Son  had  a  state  of  existence  previous  to 
His  appearance  on  earth,  but  not  from 
eternity  ;  and  (4)  that  the  Messiah  was 
not  real  man,  but  a  divine  being  in  a 
case  of  flesh. 

Arideus  l^A-rce'-de-tis]  in  Jerusalem 
Ihiirered,  herald  in  the  Christian  army. 
The  other  herald  is  Pindorus. 

Ariel.  A  spirit  of  the  air  and  guar- 
dian of  innocence.  He  was  enslaved  to 
the  witch  Sycorax,  who  overtasked  him  ; 
and  in  punishment  for  not  doing  what 
was  beyond  his  power,  shut  him  up  in  a 
pine-rift  for  twelve  years.  On  the  death 
of  Sycorax,  Ariel  became  the  slave  of 
Cal'iban,  who  tortured  him  most  cruelly. 
Pros'f)ero  liberated  him  from  the  pine- 
rift,  and  the  grateful  fairy  served  him 
for  sixteen  years,  when  he  was  set  free. 
{S//ii/,-rspcnrt'  :  Tempest.) 

A'ri'l.  The  sylph  that  watched  over 
Belinda.     {I'opc  :  Mope  of  the  Lock,  i.) 


Aries 


63 


Arraeniaois 


Ariel.  One  of  the  angels  cast  out  of 
heaven.  The  word  means  lion  of  God. 
{Milton  :  Furadise  Lout,  book  vi.  371.) 

A'ries.     The  Ram.     The  sign  of  the 
Zodiac  in  which  the  sun  is  from  March 
21st  to  April  20th. 
'•  At  L-ist  frc,in  Aries  itiUs  tlie  liiiuntenns  smi." 
Thomson  :  .Sftritiij,  :iii. 

Ariman'es  (4  syl.).  "  The  prince  of 
earth  and  air,"  and  the  fountain-head  of 
evil.  It  is  a  personage  in  Persian  my- 
thology, introduced  into  Grecian  faVjlo 
uuder  the  name  of  Ariman'ni=!.  Byron 
introduces  him  in  his  drama  called  Man- 
fn-d. 

Arimas'pians.  A  one-eyed  people 
of  8cythia,  who  adorned  their  hair  with 
gold.  They  were  constantly  at  war  with 
the  gryphons  who  guarded  the  gold 
mines. 

'As  when  a  gryphon,  through  the  wilderness  .  .  . 
Pinsues  the  Arimaspian,  who  My  steilth 
Had  fnim  his  wakeful  custody  purloined 
The  ■-•uarded  gold." 

ixi'i-on:  Paradise  Lost,  ii.  913-6. 

Ar'ioch.  One  of  the  fallen  angels 
cast  out  of  heaven.  The  word  means  a 
fierce  lion.  {.l[i/toii  :  Faradi.se  Lost,  vi. 
371.) 

Ari'on.  A  Greek  musician,  cast  into 
the  sea  by  mariners,  but  carried  to  Tje- 
uaros  on  the  back  of  a  dolphin. 

Arioii,  The  wonderful  horse  which 
Hercules  gave  to  Adras'tos.  It  sprang 
from  Ceres  and  Neptune,  had  the  power 
of  speech ,  and  its  feet  on  the  right  side 
were  the  feet  of  a  man.     (.Vcf  Horse.) 

Arios'to  was  privately  married  to 
Alessandra  Benucci,  widow  of  Tito 
Strozzi ;  she  is  generally  called  his 
mistress. 

Ariosto  of  the  Xorth.  So  Lord  Byron 
calls  Sir  Walter  Scott.  {Childe  Llarold, 
iv.  40.) 

Ariste'as.     The  wandering  Jew  of 

Grecian  fable.     {Hec  Jew.) 

Aristi'des    (4  syl.).      Surnamed  The 
Just.     Au  Athenian  statesman. 
'  Then  Aristides  lilts  his  honest  front, 
Sliotless  of  heart ;  to  whom  the  untiattering 

voice 
Of  Freedom  gave  the  noMest  nameof  Just.' " 
Thomson:   tVinfcr,  45a-6l. 

The  British  Aristides.  Andrew 
Marvell  (1620-1678). 

The  French  Aristides.  Mons.  Grevy, 
born  1813,  president  of  the  Third  Re- 
public 1879-1887,  died  1891.  He  was  a 
barrister  by  profession. 

Aristippos.     {See  Hedonism.) 

Aristocracy.  The  cold  shade  of  the 
aristocracy  —  i.e.    the     unsympathising 


patronage  of  the  great.  The  expression 
first  occurs  in  Sir  W.  F.  P.  Napier's 
Historij  of  the  Feninsular  War. 

The  word  "aristocracy  "  is  the  Greek 
aristo-cnitia  (rule  of  the  best-bom). 

Aristoph'anes.  The  English  or 
modern  Aristophanes.  Samuel  Foote 
(1722-1777). 

The  French  Aristophanes.  J.  Baptiste 
Poquelin  de  Molic-re  (1622-1073). 

Aristotle. 

Aristotle  of  China.  Tehuhe,  who  died 
A.D.  1200,  called  the  "Prince  of  Science." 

Aristotle  of  the  nineteenth  cinturij. 
Baron  Ciivier,  the  great  naturalist 
(1769-1832). 

Aristote  lian  Philosophy.  Aris- 
totle maintained  that  four  separate  causes 
are  necessary  before  auytlung  exists : 
the  material  cause,  the  formal,  the  linal. 
and  the  moving  cause.  The  first  is  the 
antecedents  from  which  the  thing  comes 
into  existence ;  the  second,  that  which 
gives  it  its  individuality  ;  the  moving  or 
efficient  cause  is  that  which  causes  matter 
to  assume  its  individual  fonns  ;  and  the 
final  cause  is  that  for  which  the  thing 
exists.  According  to  Aristotle,  matter 
is  eternal. 

Aristotelian  Unities.  Ari.totle, 
the  Greek  philosopher,  laid  it  down  as 
a  rule  that  every  tragedy,  propeiij'  con- 
structed, should  contain  but  one  cata- 
strophe ;  should  be  limited  to  one  denou- 
ment ;  and  be  circumscribed  to  the  action 
of  one  single  day.  These  are  called  tlie 
Aristotel'ic  or  Dramatic  unities.  To 
these  the  French  have  added  a  fourth, 
the  unity  of  iiniforiiiitij,  i.e.  in  tragedy 
all  the  '*  ilramatis  persoiiEe  "  should  be 
tragic  in  style,  in  comedy  comic,  and  in 
farce  farcical. 

Ark.  Yon  mast  hare  come  out  of  the 
ark,  or  ijoh  icere  born  in  thearh ;  because 
you  are  so  old-fashioned,  and  ignorant  of 
current  events. 

Armada.  The  Spanish  Arm'idn. 
The  fleet  assembled  by  Philip  II.  of 
Spain,  in  lo8S,  for  the  conquest  of 
England.     Used  for  any  fleet. 

Arme'nians.  A  religious  sect  so 
called  from  Anne'nia,  where  Christianity 
was  introduced  in  the  second  century. 
They  attribute  only  one  nature  to  Christ 
and'hold  that  the  Spirit  proceeds  from 
the  Father  only.  They  enjoin  the  ado- 
ration of  saints,  have  some  peculiar  ways 
of  administering  baptism  and  the  Lord's 
Supper,  but  do  not  maintain  the  doctrine 
of  purgatory. 


Armida 


64 


Arn-monat 


Armida.  One  of  the  prominent 
female  characters  in  Tasso's  Jcrxmlcm 
Ueli  vcrcd.  She  was  a  beautiful  sorceress, 
with  whom  Rinaldo  fell  in  love,  and 
wasted  his  time  in  voluptuous  pleasure. 
Two  messengers  were  sent  from  the 
Christian  army  with  a  talisman  to  dis- 
enchant him.  After  liis  escape,  Armida 
followed  him  in  distraction,  but  not 
being  able  to  allure  him  back,  set  fire  to 
her  palace,  rushed  into  the  midst  of  a 
combat,  and  was  slain. 

In  1806,  Frederick  William  of  Prussia 
declared  war  against  Napoleoti,  and  his 
young  queen  rode  about  in  niihtary  cos- 
tume to  arouse  the  enthusiasm  of  the 
people.  When  Napoleon  was  told  of  it, 
he  wittily  said  of  her  :  "  She  is  Armi'da, 
in  her  distraction  setting  fire  to  her  own 
palace." 

Armin'ians  (Anti  -  Calvinists) ,  so 
called  from  James  Harmensen,  of  Hol- 
land, whose  name.  Latinised,  is  Jaco'bus 
Armiuius.  He  asserted  that  God  bestows 
forgiveness  and  eternal  life  on  all  who 
repent  and  believe  ;  that  He  wills  all  men 
to  be  saved  ;  and  that  His  predestination 
is  founded  on  His  foreknowledge. 

Armory.  Heraldry  is  so  called, 
because  it  first  found  its  special  use  in 
direct  connection  witli  military  equip- 
ments, knightly  exercises,  and  the  iiirlcc 
of  actual  battle. 
"Same  L'l'L'at  ninn's  bart^e  of  war  or  armory." 
Mums  :  liarthlij  Paradise,  ii.  107. 

Armoury.  The  place  where  armour 
IS  kept.  ■■  B„t  ti,e  sword 

of  Micbael  from  the  armoury  of  God 
Was  f,'iveii  liim." 
MiJtcm  :  J'aradise  Lost,  vi.  320.    See  also  vii.  '2m. 

Arms.  In  the  Bayeux  tapestry,  the 
Saxons  fight  on  foot  with  javelin  and 
battle-axe,  and  bear  shields  with  the 
Biitish  characteristic  of  a  boss  in  the 
centre.     The  men  were  moustached. 

The  Normans  are  on  horseback,  with 
long  shields  and  pennoned  lances.  Tlie 
men  are  not  only  shaven,  but  most  of 
them  have  a  complete  tonsure  on  the 
back  of  the  head,  whence  the  spies  said 
to  Harold,  "There  are  more  ])riests  in 
the  Norman  army  thnn  men  in  Harold's." 

Arms  of  England  ( 17ir  Roijal).  The 
three  lions  leopardised  were  the  cog- 
nisance of  William  the  Conqueror  ;  the 
lion  rampant  in  the  second  quarter  is 
from  the  arms  of  Scotland  ;  and  the  harp 
in  the  fourth  quarter  represents  Ireland. 
The  lion  supporter  is  in  honour  of 
England,  and  the  unicorn  in  honour  of 
Scotland.  These  two  supporters  were 
introduced  by  James  I. 


William  I.  had  only  two  ]io\\B  passa)it 
parchoit  ;  the  third  was  introduced  by 
Henry  II.  The  lion  rampant  first  ap- 
peared on  Scotch  seals  in  the  reign  of 
Alexander  II.  (1214-1249).  The  harp 
was  assigned  to  Ireland  in  the  time  of 
Henry  VII.  ;  before  that  time  the  arm! 
of  Ireland  were  three  crouns.  The  uni- 
corn was  not  a  supporter  of  the  royal 
arms  of  Scotland  before  the  reign  ol 
Mary  Stuart. 

Which  arm  of  the  serricc.  Military  or 
naval  ? 

Tlie  secular  arm.  Civil,  in  contra- 
distinction to  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction. 

"The  relapsed  ai-m  delivered  to  tlie  secular 
arm." — Priestley  :  Corruptions  of  Christianity. 

To  arm  a  marjnct.  To  put  an  arma- 
ture on  a  loadstone. 

A  coat  of  arms.     An  heraldic  device, 

A  2}'^ssage  of  arms.  A  literary  con- 
troversy ;  a  battle  of  words. 

An  assault  at  arms  (or  of  arms).  An 
attack  by  fencers ;  a  hand-to-hand 
military  exercise. 

At  arm's  lein/th.  At  a  distance.  To 
keep  one  at  arm's  length  is  to  repel 
familiarity. 

///  arms.  A  child  in  arms  is  an  infant 
carried  about  in  one's  aims. 

A  city  in  arms  is  one  in  which  the 
people  are  anned  for  war. 

Ki)iff  of  arms.  A  chief  herald  in  the 
College  of  Heralds.  Here  arms  means 
heraldic  devices. 

Smrdl  arms.  Those  which  do  not,  like 
artillery,  require  carriages. 

To  appeal  to  arms.  To  determine  to 
decide  a  litigation  by  wai". 

To  arms  !    Make  ready  for  battle. 

"  To  arms  !  cried  Mortimer, 
Aud  coucbed  his  iiuiveriiiK  lance." 

Gniii :  'I'lic  Bard. 

Come  to  my  arms.  Come,  and  let  me 
embrace  you. 

To  laij  doicn  their  ar/jis.  To  cease 
from  armed  hostility  ;  to  surrender. 

Under  arms.  Prepared  for  battle  ;  in 
battle  array. 

Up  ill  arms.  In  open  rebellion ; 
roused  to  anger,  as  the  clergy  were  up 
in  arms  against  Colenso  for  publishing 
his  Lectures  on  the  Pentateuch.  The  latter 
is  a  figure  of  speech. 

If'ith  open  arms.  Cordially ;  as  per- 
sons receive  a  dear  friend  when  they 
open  their  arms  for  an  embrace. 

Arnauts     [f>rr/re    men].       Albanian 

mountaineers. 

"  stained  with  the  be.U  of  Arnaufs  blood." 
Byron  :  The  Giaour. 

Arn-monat.  Anglo  -  Saxon,  (crn- 
monath,  barn  month.     The  Anglo-Saxon 


Arnold 


65 


Artemus  Ward 


name  for  August,  because  it  was  the 
month  for  garnermg  the  corn. 

Arnold,  of  Melch'thal,  patriarch  of 
the  forest  cantons  of  Switzerland.  He 
was  in  love  with  Matilda,  a  sister  of 
Gessler,  the  Austrian  governor  of  i,he 
district.  When  the  tyi'anny  of  Gessler 
drove  the  people  into  rebellion,  Arnold 
gave  ixp  Matilda  and  joined  the  in- 
surgents ;  but  when  Gessler  was  shot  by 
William  Tell,  he  became  united  to  her  in 
marriage.  (Hossiiii's  opera  of  Gunlicluio 
Tell.) 

Arnol'dists.  The  partisans  of  Arnold 
of  BresL'ia,  who  raised  his  voice  against 
the  abuses  and  vices  of  the  papacy  in  the 
twelfth  century.  He  was  burnt  alive  by 
Pojie  Adrian  IV. 

Arod,  in  the  satire  of  Absalom  and 
Achitophcl,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  is 
designed  for  Sir  William  Waller. 

"  But  in  the  sacred  annals  of  our  plot 
Inilustrious  Arod  never  be  forsot^ 
The  labours  ol  this  midnight  magistrate 
May  vie  with  Corah  [Titus  Gates]  to  preserve 
the  state."  Part  ii. 

Aroint  thee.     Get  ye  gone,  be  off. 

In  Cheshire  they  say,  rynt  ye,  witch ; 
and  milk-maids  say  to  their  cows  when 
they  have  done  milking  them,  rijnt  yc, 
(or  'roi//t)  my  beauties;  but  it  is  doubtful 
whether  this  is  connected  with  the  word 
in  question. 

Aron'teus  (i  syl.),  in  Jerusalem 
Delirereel.  An  Asiatic  king,  who  joined 
the  Egyptian  armameiit  against  the 
Crusaders,  "not  by  virtue  fired,  but 
vain  of  his  titles  and  ambitious  of  fame." 

Ar'oundight.      The    sword    of    Sir 
Lauucelot  of  the  Lake.     {See  Swoed.) 
"  It  is  the  sword  of  a  good  knight, 
Though  homespun  was  his  mail, 
What  matter  if  it  be  not  hight, 

Joyeuse,  Cola'da,  Durindale, 
Excalibar,  or  Arouudight  ? " 

Loniifellow. 

Arras,  tapestry.  So  called  from  Arras, 
in  Artois,  famed  for  its  manufacture. 
When  rooms  were  hung  with  tapestiy  it 
was  a  common  thing  for  i^ersons  to  hide 
behind  it,  especially  the  arras  curtain 
before  the  door.  Hubert  concealed  the 
two  villains  who  were  to  put  out 
Arthur's  eyes  behind  the  arras.  Polo'- 
nius  was  slain  by  Hamlet  while  con- 
cealed behind  the  arras.  Falstaff  pro- 
posed to  hide  beliind  the  arras  at 
Windsor,  etc. 

Arria,  a  Roman  Indy,  the  wife  of 
Cteciua  Fastus.  Psetus  being  accused  of 
conspiring  against  the  Emperor  Claudius 


was  condemned  to  death  and  sent  by  sea 
to  Rome.  Arria  accompanied  him,  and 
stabbed  herself  in  the  boat,  then  pre- 
senting the  dagger  to  her  husband,  she 
said:  "Ptetus,  it  gives  no  pain"  (iion 
(Met).     {Pliny,  vii.) 

•*  Her  daughter  Arria,  wife  of 
Thraseas,  when  her  husliand  was  con- 
demned to  death  by  Nero,  opened  her 
veins  ;  but  Thraseas  entreated  her  to 
live,  for  the  sake  of  her  children. 

Arriere  Pensee  (plural  arriercs  pen- 
sees),  a  iiiddeu  or  re.served  motive,  not 
ajjparent  on  the  surface. 

Arrot,  the  weasel,  in  the  tale  of 
Reynard  the  Fox. 

Arrow.  The  broad  arrow,  thus  /^. 
A  mark  used  by  the  Britisli  Board  of  Ord- 
nance, and  placed  on  their  stores.  {See 
Beoad  Aeeow.) 

Arrowroot  is  ararata,  the  Indian 
word  am  is  the  name  of  the  jilant. 
There  is  no  evidence  of  its  being  used  to 
absorb  the  poison  of  poisoned  arrows  in 
fleshy  wounds. 

Arse'tes  (in  Jerusalem  Delirered). 
The  aged  eunuch  who  brought  up  Clo- 
rin'da,  and  attended  her  stejis. 

Artaxerxes,  called  by  the  Persians 
Kai-Ardeshir,  and  suruamed  diraz-dest 
(long-handed),  because  his  right  hand 
was  longer  than  his  left.  The  Romans 
translated  diraz-dest  into  longi-maiius ; 
the  Greek  Arta  into  Arde  ("  noble  "). 

Art'egal  {Sir)  (in  Spenser's  lai'rie 
Queene),  is  the  hero  of  the  fifth  book, 
and  impersonates  Justice,  the  foster  child 
of  Astraea.  In  the  previous  books  he 
occasionally  appears,  and  is  called  Sir 
Artliegal.  It  is  said  that  Arthur,  Lord 
Grey  of  Wilton,  was  the  prototype  of 
this  character.  He  was  sent  to  Ireland 
as  Lord  Lieutenant  in  I08O,  and  the  poet 
was  his  secretary.  In  book  iv.,  canto  6, 
Sir  Art'egal  is  married  to  Brifomart.  and 
proceeds  to  succour  Irena  (Ireland),  whose 
heritage  had  been  withheld  by  the  tyrant 
Grantorto.     {See  Aethegal.) 

Ar'temus  Ward.  A  showman,  very 
cute,  and  very  American.  The  hypo- 
thetical writer  of  the  essays  or  papers 
so  called,  the  real  author  being  Charles 
F.  Browne. 

Being  asked  if  his  name  was  Art6m\is 
or  Artemus,  he  wrote  on  his  address 
card  : — 

"  Don't  bother  me  with  your  etas  and  short  e's. 
Nor  ask  me  for  more  than  you  have  ou  my 
card  ; 
Oil  !  spare  me  from  etymological  sorties. 
And  simply  accept  me  as  Artemus  Ward," 


Artesian  "Wells 


6f; 


Ayrans 


V  Which,  however,  leaves  the  pro- 
nunciation of  "  Ward  "  doubtful. 

Artesian  Wells.  So  called  from 
ylrte'nunii  (the  Latin  for  Artois),  in 
France,  where  they  were  first  bored. 

Artful  Dodger.  A  young  thief,  a 
most  perfect  adept  in  villainy,  up  to 
every  sort  of  wicked  dodge.  {Bickcns  : 
Olircr  Tw/sf.) 

Ar'thegal.  Uterine  brother  of  Prince 
Arthur.  Spenser,  in  his  Farric  Qncciic 
(book  iii.),  makes  Brit'omart  see  his 
person  and  name  in  the  magic  glass. 
She  falls  in  love  with  the  looking-glass 
hero,  and  is  told  by  Merlin  that  she  will 
marry  him,  and  become  the  mother  of 
a  line  of  kings  that  would  supersede 
both  the  Saxons  and  Noi-mans.  He  re- 
ferred, of  course,  to  the  Tudors,  who 
were  descendants  of  Cadwallador.  {Sec 
Artecal.) 

Arthur,  King  of  the  Sil'ures,  a 
tribe  of  ancient  Britons,  was  mortally 
wounded  in  the  battle  of  Camlan,  in 
Cornwall,  raised  by  the  revolt  of  his 
nephew,  Modred.  He  was  taken  to 
Glastonbury,  where  he  died. 

Hix  irifc  was  Guinever,  vs^ho  com- 
mitted adultery  with  Sir  Launcelot  of 
the  Lnke,  one  of  the  Knights  of  the 
Round  Table. 

He  was  the  natural  fon  of  Uther  and 
Igerna  (wife  of  Gorlois,  duke  of  Corn- 
wall), and  was  brought  up  by  Sir  Ector. 

He  wan  horn  at  Tintad'gel  or  Tintagel, 
a  castle  in  Cornwall. 

His  habitual  residence  \\i\s,  Caerleon,  iu 
Wales  ;  and  he  was  buried  at  Av'alon. 

His  sirorcl  was  called  Excol'ihar  or 
Excalihor  ;  his  npear,  Itoiie  {\  syl.),  and 
his  shield,  Frirhrii/.  His  dor/  was  named 
Cavall.     (See  Round  Table  Knights.) 

Arthurian  Romances.  These  may 
be  divided  into  six  jiarts  : 

(1)  The  romance  of  the  San  Graal. 
By  Robert  Borron. 

(2)  The  Merlin,  which  celebrates  the 
birth  and  exploits  of  King  Arthur.  By 
Walter  Mapes. 

(3)  The  Liiancelot.  By  Thomas  a 
Becket. 

(4)  The  search  or  Qa/nf  of  the  Sail 
Graal.  It  is  found  by  Sir  Gal'ahad,  a 
knight  of  pure  heart  and  great  courage  ; 
but  no  sooner  does  he  find  it  thwu  ln^ 
is  taken  up  to  heaven.  By  Thomas  a 
Becket. 

(5)  The  Mori  d^ Arthur,  or  Death  of 
Arthur.     By  Thomas  a  Becket. 

(())  Sundry  Talcs,   but  especially   the 


adventures  of  Sir  Tristan.  By  Luke 
Gast,  of  Salisbury. 

Arthur's  Seat,  a  hill  near  Edinburgh, 
is  A'rd  Seir  (hill  of  aiTows),  where 
people  shot  at  a  mark. 

Articles  of  Roup  (Scotch).  Con- 
ditions of  sale  at  an  auction  announced 
by  a  crier.  (Roup  is  the  Teutonic  re- 
open, to  cry  out.) 

Artists,  The  Prince  of,  All)ert 
Diirer ;  so  called  by  his  countrymen. 
(1471-1-V2S.) 

Ar'totyrites  (4  syl.).  Certain  here- 
tics from  among  the  Montanists-;  so 
called  because  they  iised  bread  and 
cheese  in  the  Eucharist.  They  admitted 
women  to  the  priesthood.  (Greek,  artos, 
barley-broad,  and  taros,  cheese.) 

Arts.  Degrees  in  Arts.  In  the  mod i- 
Ecval  ages  the  full  course  consisted  of  the 
three  subjects  which  constituted  the 
Triv'iam,  and  the  four  subjects  which 
constituted  the  Qaadrir'ium  : — 

The  Trir'iainvfas  grammar,  logic,  and 
rhetoric. 

The  Qaadrir'iaiii  was  music,  ai'ithme- 
tic,  geometry,  and  astronomy. 

The  Master  of  Arts  was  the  person 
qualified  to  teach  or  be  the  master  of 
students  in  arts  ;  as  the  Doctor  was  the 
person  qualified  to  teach  theology,  law, 
or  medicine. 

Ar'undel.  The  heraldic  device  of  the 
family  is  six  swallows  {hirondcllcs),  a 
pun  upon  the  name. 

Arandel.     (See  Hoese.) 

Arunde'lian  Marbles.  A  collection 
of  ancient  sculptiu'es  collected  nt  great 
expense  by  Thomas  Howard,  Earl  of 
Arundel,  and  presented  to  the  Univer- 
sity of  Oxford  iu  1G67  by  his  grandson, 
Henry  Howard,  afterwards  Duke  of 
Norfolk.  They  contain  tables  of  an- 
cient chronology,  especially  that  of 
Athens,  from  B.C.  1582  to  264,  engraved 
in  old  Greek  capitals.  Date  of  the 
tables,  B.C.  263. 

Arvakur'.     (See  Horse.) 

A'ryans.  The  parent  stock  of  what 
is  called  tlie  Indo-European  family  of 
nations.  They  lived  probaV)ly  in  Bactria, 
i.e.  between  the  river  Oxus  and  the 
Hindu-koosh  mountains.  The  Aryan 
family  of  languages  include  the  Persian 
and  Hindu,  with  all  the  European 
except  Basque,  Turkish,  Hungarian, 
and  Finnic.  Sometimes  called  the  Indo- 
EuropeaTi,  sometimes  thelndo-Germanic, 
and  sometimes  the  Japetic. 

•Sanskrit,  Zenil,  L;itiii,  Gieck,  and  Celtic  are,  of 
ci>iii»e,  included. 


Arzina 


C7 


Asgard 


Arzi'na.  A  river  tliat  flows  into  the 
North  Sea,  near  Wardlxus,  where  Sir 
Willoughby's  three  ships  were  frozen, 
and  the  whole  crew  perished  of  starva- 
tion. 
"  111  these  fell  regions,  in  Aizina  caught, 

And  to  the  stony  deep  his  idle  ship 

Iniuiediiite  sealed,  he  with  his  hapless  crew  .  .  . 

Froze  into  statues." 

Thomson:  Whiter,  'Mi. 

Ass  you  were,  in  military  drillinr^, 
means.  Return  to  the  position  in  which 
you  were  before  tlie  last  exercise.  As 
you  were  before. 

Asa  was  a  term  of  address  to  all  the 
gods  of  Gladsheim  ;  as  Asa  Odin,  Asa 
Thor,  Asa  Loki,  Asa  Tyr,  etc. 

"'That's  all  very  well,  Asa  Odiu,'  answered 
Frey  ;  'liut  who,  let  nie  ask,  is  to  undertake  the 
feeciiui,'  iif  the  human  animal  i'"—Keary  :  Ilcrocs 
o/Amjiinl,  p.  r;). 

.  Asa  Loki.  Descended  from  the 
giants  and  received  among  tlie  celestials. 
He  is  represented  as  a  treacherous 
malignant  power,  fond  of  assuming 
disguises,  and  jilotting  evil.  One  of  his 
progeny  is  Hela  {'/■>'■)■  {Sratidinariaj/ 
mijihohgij.)     (<SV'c  tEsir.) 

Asa  Thor.  Eldest  son  of  Asa  Odin, 
n.nd  tlte  tirst-born  of  mortals.  {Svau- 
duiKrian  ))itjtholo(jij.) 

Asaph.  A  famous  musician  in 
David's  time  (1  Chron.  xxv.  1,  '2).  Mr. 
Tate,  wlio  wrote  the  second  jiart  of 
^t/i.sd/oiii  (Old  Achitophcl,  lauds  Dryden 
under  this  name. 

"  While   Judah's  throne  and  Siou's  rock  stand 
fast, 
The  song  of  Asaph  and  the  fame  shall  last." 
Absdloin  and  Ackitiiphvl,  part  ii.  10G.'i-l. 

As'bolos.  One  of  Actseon's  dogs. 
Tlio  word  means  soot-coJourcd.  {See 
Amarynthos.) 

Ascal'aphos.  Turned  by  Proserpine, 
f ( )v  miscliief -making,  into  an  owl.    ( Greek 

filhlc.) 

As'capart.  A  giant  conquered  l>y 
Sir  Bevis  of  Southampton.  He  was  thirty 
feet  high,  and  the  space  between  his  eyes 
was  twelve  inches.  This  mighty  giant, 
whose  effigy  figures  on  the  city  gates  of 
Southampton,  could  carry  iinder  his  aiTu 
without  feeling  distressed  Sir  Bevis  with 
his  wife  and  horse.     {Sec  Giants.) 

"As  Bevis  of  Southanu'ton  f(dl  npon  Ascapart." 
.S/;((7.('sp.'(ire:  2  Ileuri/  V'/.,act  ii.  S. 

Ascendant.  In  casting  a  horoscope 
the  easternmost  star,  re}3resenting  the 
house  of  life,  is  called  the  ascendant,  be- 
cause it  is  in  the  act  of  ascending.  This 
is  a  man's  strongest  star,  and  so  long  as 
it  is  above  the  horizon  Itis  fortune  is 
said  to  be  in  the  ascendant.      When  a 


man's  cii'cumstances  begin  to  improve, 
and  things  look  brighter,  we  say  his 
star  is  in  tJie  ascendant.  {See  Houses, 
Stars.) 

House  of  the  AseenddiU  includes  five 
degrees  of  the  zodiac  above  the  point 
just  rising,  and  twenty-five  below  it. 
Usually,  the  iDoint  of  birth  is  referred  to. 

The  lord  of  the  Asecndant  is  any  planet 
within  the  "hou.se  of  the  Ascendant." 
Tlie  house  and  lord  of  the  Ascendant 
at  birth  were  said  by  astrologers  to 
exercise  great  influence  on  the  future 
life  of  the  child.  PerhaiJS  Deborali  re- 
ferred to  the  influence  of  the  stars  when 
she  said  "the  stars  in  their  courses 
fought  against  Sisera."     (Judges  v.  20.) 

Ascension  Day  or  Ilohi  Thtirsday. 
The  day  set  apart  by  the  Catholic  and 
AngHcan  Church  to  commemorate  the 
ascent  of  our  Lord  from  earth  to 
heaven. 

Formerly  it  was  customary  to  hcut  tlie  hnindi 
of  each  respective  parish  ou  this  day,  and  many 
lU'actical  jokes  were  pImvciI  even  <lnriii'-;  ilic  lirst 
(inarter  of  the  iiin.-ii'.-nl  li  .■.■nliii'y.  In  iii:ike  the 
boys  i"emeiiilier  I  h. mIcIi in 1 1 :i i  n mis  si i.- 1 1  :is  ■■  hump- 
ing them,"  piiuriii.i,'  wiiiri-  rl.nid.'si  niclv  .m  lliem 
frcMii  house  windows,  heating  llicm  wilh  lliin 
rods,  etc.  Beating  the  bounds  was  called  in  Scot- 
laud  RUlinc/  the  inarches  (bounds). 

Asclepi'adics  or  Aselepiadic  Metre. 
A  Greek  and  Latin  verse,  so  called  from 
Asclcpi'ades,  the  inventor.  Each  line  is 
divided  into  two  parts,  thus  :  — 

The  first  ode  of  Horace  is  Asclepi'adic. 
The  first  and  last  two  linos  run  thus, 
and  in  the  same  metre  : — 

Dear  friend,  patron  of  song,  sprung  from  the 

race  of  kings ; 
Thy  name  ever  a  grace  and  a  protection  brings. 

My  name,  if  to  the  lyre  haply  you  chance  to 

wed. 
Pride  would  high  as  the  stars  lift  my  exalted 

head.  '  E.  ('.  1!. 

Ascod'rogites  (4  syl.).  Certain 
heretics  who  said  "they  were  vessels 
full  of  new  wine"  (Greek,  ashos).  By 
new  wine  they  meant  the  Gosjiel.  (Matt. 
ix.  17.) 

Ascot  Races.  A  very  fashionable 
"  meet,"  rim  on  Ascot  Heath,  Berkshire 
(6  miles  from  Windsor) .  Th  e  best  liorses 
of  all  England  compete,  and  at  a  some- 
what more  advanced  age  titan  at  the 
"  great  classic  races  "  {q.i'.). 

Ascrse'an  Poet  or  Sage.  Hesiod, 
the  Greek  didactic  ])oet,  born  at  Ascra. 
in  Bceotia.  Virgil  calls  liiin  the  "  Old 
AscrfEon."     {Eelogaes,  vii,  70.) 

As'gard.  The  fortress  of  the  Asir  or 
the    Northern    gods,    the    Olympos    of 


Ash  Tree 


08 


Aspen 


Scaudiua'viau  mythology.  It  is  said  to  be 
situated  in  the  ceutre  of  the  universe,  and 
accessible  only  by  the  rainbow-bridge 
{Bifrost).  The  word  A>i  means  a  "  god," 
and  (jard  an  ''enclosure,"  our  "yard." 
(Jdiu  was  priest  of  Asgard  before  he 
migrated  to  the  Lake  Logur  or  Moelar 
Sea. 

Ash  Tree,  or  "Tree  of  the  Universe." 
{Sec  Yggdeasil.) 

Ash  Wednesday.  The  first  Wednes- 
day in  Lent,  so  called  from  an  ancient 
Roman  Catholic  custom  of  sprinkling 
ashes  on  the  heads  of  those  condemned 
to  do  penance  on  this  day. 

The  aslies  were  tlmse  of  flie  iinliiis  Imnit  on 
Palm  Siuulay.  Tlie  ;)«■.««/(«('  were  siniiikli'il  willi 
ashes,  the  less  offoiKliiii.'  were  si,i,'ii('il  on  tlie  fore- 
head with  tlie  si,!-'n  of  the  cross,  the  ofHciatiiiL,' 
minister  saying,  "  Mi-mentr;  jmrno,  quia  piilvis  e.-<, 
et  in  piilvi'rem  reverterin."  The  custom,  it  is 
said,  was  iuti'oduced  Ijy  Gregory  the  Great. 

Ashmolean  Museum.  Presented  to 
the  University  of  Oxford  in  KiS'i  liy 
Elias  Aslimole.  Sometimes  called  the 
Trades'cant,  because  it  belonged  to  the 
Tradescant  family. 

Ash'taroth.  The  goddess-raoon  in 
Syrian  mythology,  called  by  Jeremiah 
(vii.  18,  xliv.  17,  25)  "the  queen  of 
heaven."     Goddess  of  the  Zidoniaus. 

"  Mooned  Ashlaroth, 
Heaven's  queen  and  mother  both." 

Milton:  Thellymii. 

Ashur.  The    highest    god    of    the 

Assyrians.  It    had    the    head    of    an 

eagle  and  four  wings,  but  the  body 
of  a  m.an. 

"Ont  of  that  land  went  forth  Assliur,  and 
huildi-d  Nineveh."— Gen.  x.  ll._ 

As'inus.  As'inns  as'iit/nii  fricat 
(Latin,  "one  ass  rubs  another"),  that 
is,  we  fraternise  with  j^ersons  like  our- 
selves ;  or,  in  other  words,  "Birds  of  a 
feather  flock  together."  The  allusion 
needs  no  explanation. 

A'sir.     {Sec  J3siE.] 

Ask.  The  vulgar  Ax  is  the  more 
correct  (Saxon,  (/.riaii,  to  ask).  In  as- 
senting to  Bills,  the  king  used  to  reply, 
"  Be  it  as  it  is  axed."  Chaucer  says  in 
the  Doctor  of  JIr//icii/c''s  Tii/c,  "  For  my 
werke  nothing  will  I  axe."  Launfal, 
1027,  has,  "Ho  that  wyll  there  axsy 
Justus."  Other  quotations  could  easily 
be  added. 

Ask  and  Etnbla.  The  Adam  and 
Eve  made  by  Odin,  one  from  ash-wood 
and  the  otlter  from  elm. 


Aslo.     {Sec  HOKSK.) 


Asmode'us  [t/ie  dcstroi/cr].  The 
demon  of  vanity  and  dress,  called  in  the 
Talmud  "the  king  of  devils." 

T/ic  A.i/iiodc'ns  of  domestic  peace  (in  the 
Book  of  Tobit).  Asmode'us  falls  in  love 
with  Sara,  daughter  of  Rag'uel,  and 
causes  the  death  of  seven  husbands  in 
succession,  each  on  his  bridal  night.  After 
her  marriage  to  Tobit,  he  was  driven 
into  Egyjit  by  a  charm,  made  by  Tobias 
of  the  heart  and  liver  of  a  fish  burnt  on 
perfumed  ashes,  and  being  pursued  was 
taken  prisoner  and  bound. 

"  Better  pleased 
Than  Asmode'us  with  the  lishy  fume 
Tliat   drove  him,  though  euanioured,  from  the 

siiouse 
Of  Tohit's  son,  and  with  a  vengeance  sent 
From  Media  iiost  to  Egypt,  there  fast  bound." 
Hilton:  Paradise  Lout,  iv.  lur-ri. 

Asmode'us.  The  companion  of  Don 
Cle'ofas  in  17te  JJevil  on  l\vo  SticJa. 
(Chaji.  iii.) 

Asmodc' Hf!  fifiht.  Don  Cle'ofas,  catch- 
ing hold  of  his  companion's  cloak,  is 
perched  on  the  steeple  of  St.  Salva'dor. 
Here  the  foul  fiend  stretches  out  his 
hand,  and  the  roofs  of  all  the  houses  open 
in  a  moment,  to  show  the  Don  what  is 
going  on  privately  in  each  respective 
dwelling. 

"Could  tlie  reader  t:ikean  Asniodeustlii-'lit.and, 
wavinu' o]ien  all  roofs  aiid  iiri\  .■o-ics,  iuok  down 
from  the  roof  of  Notre  l).-uiie.  wliai  a  I'aris  were 
it  !"— C((W///f.-  French  Uiroliitioii  /A,  vi.  chap.  \  i. 

As'oka  of  Magad'ha.  In  the  third 
century  the  "  nursing  father"  of  Buddh- 
ism, as  Constantine  was  of  Christianity. 
He  is  called  ' '  the  king  beloved  of  the 
gods." 

Aso'ors.    Evil  genii  of  the  Indians. 

Aspa'sia,  a  courtesan.  She  was  the 
most  celebrated  of  the  Greek  HetiErse,  to 
whom  Per'icles  attached  himself.  On 
the  death  of  Pericles  she  lived  witli 
Lys'icles,  a  cattle-dealer. 

*«*  Tlie  Het:)era3  of  Athens  were,  many 
of  them,  distinguished  for  talents  and 
accomplishments.  Those  of  Corinth 
were  connected  with  the  wor.shii3  of 
Aphrodite  (Venus). 

Aspa'tia,  in  the  Muid's  Trdc/edi/,  of 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  is  uoted  for  her 
deep  sorrows,  her  great  resignation,  and 
the  ])athos  of  her  speeches.  Amyn'tor 
deserts  her,  women  point  at  her  with 
scorn,  she  is  the  jest  and  bye-word  of 
every  one,  but  she  bears  it  all  with 
patience. 

Aspen.  The  aspen  leaf  is  said  to 
tremble,  from  shame  and  horror,  because 
our  Lord's  cross  was  made  of  tliis  wood. 
The  fact  is  this  :  the  leaf  is  broad,  and 


Aspersions 


69 


Ass 


placed  on  a  long  leaf-stalk  so  flexible 
as  scarcely  to  bo  able  to  support  it  in 
an  upright  position.  The  upper  part 
of  the  stalk,  on  which  the  play  mainly 
depends,  is  flattened ;  and,  being  at 
right  angles  with  the  leaf,  is  peculiarly 
liable  to  be  acted  on  by  the  least  breath 
of  air. 

Aspen  leaf.  Metaphorically,  a  chatter- 
ing tongue,  never  quiet. 

"Those  asiien  leaves  uf  tboirs  never  leave 
Tvagrgiiig."— «(■)•  T.  More. 

Asper'sions  properly  means ' '  sprink- 
lings"   or   "scatterings."      Its   present 
meaning  is  base  insinuations  or  slanders. 
"Xo  sweet  aspei'sion  [jyk'h]  shall  the  heavens 
let  fall 
To  make  this  oontfact  grow." 

Shiikeapcare :  The  Tempest,  iv.  1. 

Casting  aspersions  on  one,  i.e.  sprink- 
ling ■\\'ith  calumnies,  slandering  or  in- 
sinuating misconduct. 

"  I  defy  all  the  Avnrlil  to  cast  a  just  aspersion  on 
my  character."— fV( /(((Hi; ;  Tom  Joins. 

Asphal'tic  Lake.  The  Dead  Sea, 
whore  asphalt  abounds  both  on  the 
surftice  of  the  water  and  on  the  banks. 
Asphalt  is  a  bitumen.  (From  the  Greek 
asphaltos.) 

As'rael.     {See  Azeael.) 

Ass.     {See  Golden  Ass.) 

Ass.  The  ass  on  which  Mahomet 
went  to  heaven  to  learn  the  will  of  God 
was  called  Al  Borah  (the  lightning). 

Ass.  There  is  a  dark  stripe  running 
down  the  back  of  an  ass,  crossed  by 
another  at  the  shoulders.  The  tradition 
is  that  this  cross  was  communicated  to 
the  creature  when  our  Lord  rode  on  the 
back  of  an  ass  in  His  triumphant  entry 
into  Jerusalem.  {Sec  Christian  Tra- 
ditions.) 

Ass,  deaf  to  miisie.  This  tradition 
arose  from  the  hideous  noi'se  made  by 
"  Sir  Balaam  "  in  braying.  Because 
Midas  had  no  power  to  appreciate  music, 
Apollo  gave  him  the  ears  of  an  ass.  (Sec 
Ass-eared.) 

"Avarice  is  as  ileaf  to  the  voice  of  virtue, 
as  the  ass  to  the  voice  o£  AiwUo."  —  Orlando 
Fiirloso,  xvii. 

An  ass  in  a  Hnn''s  slcin.  A  coward 
who  hectors,  a  fool  that  apes  the  wise 
man.  The  allusion  is  to  the  fable  of 
an  ass  that  put  on  a  lion's  hide,  but  was 
betrayed  when  he  began  to  bray. 

An  ass  irith  tiro  panniers.  A  man 
walking  the  streets  with  a  lady  on  each 
arm.  This  occupies  the  whole  pave- 
ment, and  is  therefore  bad  manners  well 
meriting  the  reproach.  In  Italy  they 
call  such  a  simpleton  a  ^ji<f//^r  vith  tiro 
handles,  his  two  arms  akimbo  forming 


the  two  handles.  In  London  we  call  it 
walking  bodkin,  because  tlie  man  is 
sheathed  like  a  bodkin  and  powerless. 
Our  expression  is  probably  a  corruption 
of  the  French  Faire  le  panier  a  deux 
anses  ("  jnit  your  arms  akimbo"  or 
"  make  yourself  a  basket  with  two 
handles"). 

The  ass  iraggeth  his  ears.  This  pro- 
verb is  applied  to  those  who  lack 
learning,  and  yet  talk  as  if  they  were 
very  wise  ;  men  wise  in  their  own  con- 
ceit. The  ass,  proverbial  for  having 
no  "  taste  for  music,"  will  neverthe- 
less wag  its  ears  at  a  "concord  of 
sweet  sounds,"  just  as  if  it  could  well 
appreciate  it. 

'Till  the  ass  ascends  the  /adder — i.e. 
never.  A  rabbinical  expression.  The 
Romans  had  a  similar  one.  Cam  as'inas 
in.  teg'nlis  ascen'derit  (when  the  ass 
climbs  to  the  tiles).  And  Buxtorf  has 
Si  ascen'derit  as' inns  per  scatas. 

Self  your  ass.  Get  rid  of  your  foolish 
ways. 

'That  n-hich  thou  Jcnoircst  not  perchance 
thine  ass  can  tell  thee.  An  allusion  to 
Balaam's  ass. 

To  mahc  an  ass  of  oneself.  To  do 
something  very  foolish.  To  expose 
oneself  to  ridicule. 

To  inonnt  the  ass  (French).  To  be- 
come bankrupt.  The  allusion  is  to  a 
custom  very  common  in  the  sixteenth 
century  of  mounting  a  bankrupt  on  an 
ass,  with  his  face  to  its  tail.  Thus 
mounted,  the  defaulter  was  made  to  ride 
through  the  princij^al  thoroughfares  of 
the  town. 

^[.tses  have  ears  as  irell  as  pitchers. 
Children,  and  even  the  densest  minds, 
hear  and  understand  many  a  word  and 
hint  which  the  speaker  siijjposed  would 
pass  unheeded. 

Asses  that  carry  the  mysteries  (as'inns 
porta  t  myste'ria).  A  classical  knock  at 
the  Roman  clergy.  The  allusion  is  to 
the  custom  of  employing  asses  to  carry 
the  cista  which  contained  the  sacred 
symbols,  when  processions  were  made 
through  the  streets.  ( Jrarburton  .•  Divine 
Legation,  ii.  -1.) 

TFell,  well  I  honey  is  not  for  the  ass's 
mouth.  Persuasion  will  not  persuade 
fools.  The  gentlest  words  will  not  divert 
the  anger  of  the  unreasonable. 

Wrangle  for  an  ass\t  shadow.  To 
contend  about  trifles.  The  tale  told  by 
Demostli8u5s  is,  that  a  man  hired  an  ass 
to  take  him  to  MegJlra  ;  and  at  noon,  the 
sun  being  very  hot,  the  traveller  dis- 
mounted, and  sat  himself  down  in  the 
shadow  of  the  ass.     Just  then  the  owner 


Ass's  Bridge 


70 


Astarte 


came  up  and  claimed  the  right  of  sitting 
in  this  shady  spot,  saying  that  he  let  out 
the  ass  for  hire,  but  there  was  uo  bargain 
made  about  the  ass's  shade.  The  two 
men  then  fell  to  blows  to  settle  tlie  iioint 
in  dispute.  A  passer-by  told  the  tra- 
veller to  move  on,  and  leave  the  owner 
of  the  beast  to  walk  in  the  ass's  shadow 
as  long  as  he  thought  proper. 

Ass's  Bridge  {TIic).  Prop.  5,  book 
i.  of  Euclid.  This  is  the  first  difficult 
proposition  in  geometry,  and  stupid 
boys  rarely  get  over  it  the  first  time 
without  trijiping. 

It  is  the  a.ss''s  pitfuH,  not  his  bridge. 

If  this  be  ri-'btly  called  the  "  Bridge  of  Asses," 

He's   not   tlie   fool   who   sticks,   but   be   that 

passes.  E.  C.  B. 

Asses  (Feast  of).     (<SVe  Fools.) 

Ass-eared.  Midas  had  the  ears  of 
an  ass.  The  tale  says  Apollo  and  Pan 
had  a  contest,  and  chose  Midas  to  decide 
wliich  was  the  better  musician.  Midas 
gave  sentence  in  favour  of  Pan ;  and 
Apollo,  in  disgust,  changed  Ids  ears  into 
those  of  an  ass. 

Assas'sins.  A  baud  of  Carmatliians, 
collected  by  Hassan,  subah  of  Nish'- 
apour,  called  the  OM  Jfait  of  tJic  Moun- 
tains, because  he  made  Mount  Leb'anon 
his  stronghold.  This  baud  was  the 
terror  of  the  world  for  two  centuries, 
when  it  w^as  put  down  by  Sultan 
Bib'aris.  The  assassins  indulged  in 
haschiscli  (bang),  an  intoxicating  drink, 
and  from  this  liquor  received  their  name. 
(a.d.  1090.) 

"  The  Assassins  ....  before  they  attacked  the 
enemy,  would  intoxicate  thenisehes  with  a 
powdev  made  of  hciiip-leave.i  ....  called 
hm.'niihr—J.  Wolff. 

Assay'  or  Esmi/.  To  take  the  assay 
is  to  taste  wine  to  prove  it  io  not 
poisoned.  Hence,  to  try,  to  taste;  a 
savour,  trial,  or  sample.  Holinshed 
says,  "  Wolsey  made  dukes  and  earls 
serve  him  of  wine  with  a  say  taken  " 
(p.  847). 

Edmund,  in  Ki)ig  Lear  (v.  5),  says 
to  Edgar,  "Thy  tongue,  some  say  of 
breeding  breathes  ;  "  i.e.  thy  speech 
gives  indication  of  good  breeding  —  it 
savours  of  it.  Hence  the  expression,  1 
make  my  first  assay  (trial). 

"  [He]  makes  vow  before  bis  undo  never  more 
To  give  the  assay  of  arms  au'ainstyuur  majesty." 
tihiKkisffiiufi- :  llaiiikt,  ii.  i". 

A  cup  of  assay.  A  cup  for  the  assay 
of  wine. 

To  put  it  in  assay.  To  put  it  to  the 
test. 


Assaye  Regiment.  The  7-lth  Foot, 
so  called  because  they  first  distinguished 
themselves  in  the  battle  of  Assaj'e,  where 
2,000  British  and  2,500  Sepoy  troops 
under  Wellington  defeated  50,000  Mah- 
rattas,  commanded  by  Freitch  officers, 
in  1803.  This  regiment  is  now  called 
"  the  2nd  Battalion  of  the  Highland 
Light  Infantry."  Tlie  first  battalion 
was  the  old  No.  71. 

Assien'to  Treaties.  [S2)anish,  agree- 
ment treaties.]  Contracts  entered  into 
by  Spain  with  Portugal,  France,  and 
England,  to  supply  her  South  American 
colonies  with  negro  slaves.  England 
joined  in  1713,  after  the  peace  of 
Utrecht. 

Ass'ine'go.  A  young  ass,  a  simple- 
ton (a  Portuguese  word). 

"Tliou  bast  no  more  liraiu  than  I  have  in  mine 
elliiiws  ;  an  assinc:,'o  may  tutor  thee."— S/ia/re- 
sjieare:  Troilas  unci  Crcirsida,  ii.  I. 

Assumption  {Feast  of  the).  The 
15th  of  August,  so  called  in  honour  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  who  (according  to  the 
Roman  and  Greek  Churches)  was  taken 
to  heaven  that  day  (a.d.  45),  in  her 
cor^joreal  form,  being  at  the  time 
seventy-five  years  of  age. 

This  seems  very  improbable,  if  Christ  was 
crucifted  a.d.  3.3.  It  would  make  Mary  survive 
her  son  twelvu  years,  and  to  have  lieen  thirty 
years  old  at  his  birth  instead  of  about  flfteeu. 

Assurance.  Audacity,  brazen  self- 
confidence.  "  His  assm-ance  is  quite 
unbearable." 

To  make  assurance  douhle  sure.  To 
make  security  doubly  secure. 

"  But  yet  I'll  make  assurance  double  sure, 
Aud  take  a  bond  of  fate." 

Shakespeare :  Macbeth,  iv.  1. 

Astag'oras  (in  Jerusalem  Delivered). 
A  female  fiend,  who  had  the  power  of 
raising  storms,  and  whose  partners  were 
the  three  Fm'ies  :  Tisiph'one,  Meg'ara, 
and  Alec'to. 

Astar'te  (3  syl.).  Goddess  of  the 
Moon,  in  Phoenician  mythology. 

"With  these  in  trooji 
Oame  Astoreth,  whom  the  lihcpniiians  called 
Astarte,  uueen  of  heaven,  with  crescent  horns." 
Milt, III  :  PnriKihe  Lost,  i.  4H7-S». 

Astarte  (3  sjd.).  The  lady  beloved 
by  Manfi'i'd.  In  order  to  see  and  speak 
to  her,  the  m.-igiciau  entered  the  hall  of 
Arima'nes,  and  the  spirits  called  up  the 
phantom  of  the  young  lady,  which  told 
the  count  that  "  to-morrow  would  end 
his  earthly  ills."  Wlien  Manfred  asked 
her  if  slie  loved  liim,  slie  sighed 
"Manfred,"  and  vanished.  {Byron: 
Manfred.) 

".\starte,  my  l)eloveil,  speak  to  me." 

Manfred,  ii.  4. 


Astolat 


71 


Ate 


As'tolat.  By  some  identified  with 
Guildford,  iu  Surrey. 

Astol'pho  (ill  Orlando  Fnrioso).  An 
Englisli  duke  (son  of  Otho),  who  joined 
Charlemagne  against  the  Saracens.  He 
was  cari-ied  on  the  back  of  a  whale  to 
Alci'ua's  isle  ;  but  when  Alciua  tti-ed  of 
him,  she  tiu'ued  him  into  a  myrtle.  He 
was  disenchanted  b}-  Melissa.  Astol^jho 
descended  into  the  infernal  regions,  and 
his  flight  to  the  moon  (book  xvui.)  is 
one  of  the  best  parts  of  the  whole  poem. 
(•Vf  Infeeno.) 

It  came  upon  them  like  a  blast  from 
Astulpho''s  horn  —  i.e.  it  produced  a 
panic.  Logistilla  gave  Astolpho  a  magic 
horn,  and  whatever  man  or  beast  heard 
its  blast  was  seized  with  panic,  and  be- 
came an  easy  captive.  {Orlando  Farioso, 
book  viii.) 

Like  Astolpho^s  hook,  it  told  >ioh 
evcnjthinij.  The  same  fairy  gave 
Astolpho  a  book,  which  would  not  only 
direct  him  aright  in  liis  journeys,  but 
would  tell  him  anything  he  desu'ed 
to  know.  {Arioato  :  Orlando  Furioso, 
book  viii.) 

As'toreth.    (.S'w  Ashtaeotii.) 

Astrse'a.  Equity,  innocence.  Dming 
the  Golden  Age  this  goddess  dwelt  on 
earth,  but  when  sin  began  to  prevail,  she 
reluctantly  left  it,  and  was  metamor- 
phosed into  the  constellation  Virgo. 

"  Wbeu  banl-bearted  interest  first  heu'.in 
To  imisuii  earth.  Astriea  left  tlie  I'laiii.' 
Tliumeun :  Castle  of  Indulcncc,  aui.u  1. 

Astral  Body  (The).  The  noumenou 
of  a  phenomenal  body.  This  ''spirit 
body"  survives  after  the  death  of  the 
material  body,  and  is  the  "ghost"  or 
"double."  Macbeth' s  dagger  was  an 
astral  body ;  so,  in  theosophy,  i.s  the 
"kama-rupa"  or  mind  body;  and  in 
transubstantiatiou  the  veritable  ' '  blood 
and  flesh"  of  Christ  is  the  astral  body 
of  the  accidents  "bread  and  wine." 

Mall  !.<  suiiiHiseil  to  consist  iif  body,  soul,  ami 
spirit.    The  last  is  the  astral  hody  of  mau. 

Astral  Spirits.  The  spirits  of  the 
stars.  According  to  the  mythology  of 
the  Persians,  Greeks,  Jews,  etc.,  each 
star  has  its  special  spirit.  Paracelsus 
maintained  that  every  man  had  his 
attendant  star,  which  received  him  at 
death,  and  took  charge  of  liiui  till  the 
gi-eat  resuirectiou. 

Astre'a.  A  poetical  name  of  Mrs. 
Aphra  Behn,  born  of  good  family  in  the 
reign  of  Charles  I.  Her  works  are  very 
numerous  and  very  indecent,  including 


seventeen  di-amatic  pieces.  She  died 
1689,  and  was  bmied  iu  Westminster 
Abbey. 

'■  The  stage  how  loosely  does  Astrea  tread." 
Pope :  Satiress,  v.  TM. 

Astrology.     {See  Diapason,  Miceo- 

COSM.) 

Astronomer  of  Dublin  (2'Ae).    The 

head  of  tlie  cliief  rebel  of  JJubHu,  set  on 
a  tall  white-iKiinted  stake  on  the  highest 
point  of  Dublin  Castle,  where  it  remains 
till  it  falls  to  decay  or  is  replaced  by 
the  head  of  a  greater  rebel.  The  Irish 
say :  "  God  send  to  Dublin  many  more 
astronomers." 

"  His  head  is  poled  liii<h 
Upon  the  castle  here, 
Beholding  stars  as  thoiigli  he  were 
A  giear  astrononiei."  Derrick. 

Astronomers  Royal:  (1)  Flamsteed, 
1075;  (2)  Halley,  171y  ;  (3)  Bradley, 
1742;  (4)  Bhss,  17G2;  (5)  Maskelyne, 
who  originated  the  Nautical  Almanack, 
1703;  (6)  Pond,  1811;  (7)  Aiiy,  183-5; 
(8)  Chi-istie,  1881. 

As'trophel.  Sir  Philip  Sidney. 
"  I'liil.  Sid."  being  a  contraction  of 
Philos  Sidus,  and  the  Latin  sidiis  being 
changed  to  the  Greek  astron,  we  get 
astron-philos  (star-lover).  The  "star" 
that  he  lovetl  was  Penelope  Devereux, 
whom  he  called  Stella  (star),  and  to  whom 
he  was  betrothed.  Edmund  Spenser 
wrote  a  pastoral  called  Asfrophel,  to  the 
memorv  of  his  fiiend  and  patron,  who 
fell  at 'the  battle  of  Zutphen.  (1554- 
1586.) 

Asylum  means,  literally,  a  place 
where  pillage  is  forbidden  (Greek,  a 
(negative),  .salon,  right  of  pillage).  The 
ancients  set  apart  certain  places  of 
refuge,  where  the  vilest  criminals  were 
protected,  both  from  privtite  and  ijublic 
tissaults. 

Asyniur.  The  goddesses  of  Asgaxd. 
Tlie  gods  were  called  the  .^su',  the  sin- 
gular of  which  is  Asa. 

At.  Strain  at  a  cpiat  (Matt,  xxiii.  24). 
Greek,  di-aidl:o,  to  strain  off.  Here 
"at"  is  an  eri'or,  probably  in  the  first 
instance  tj^jographical,  for  "out." 
"  Out"  is  given  in  the  Bible  of  160;3,  and 
has  been  restored  by  the  llevisers. 

Ate  (2  syl.).  Goddess  of  vengeance 
and  mischief.  This  goddess  was  driven 
out  of  heaven,  and  took  refuge  among 
tlie  sons  of  men. 

••  With  Ate  hy  liis  side  come  hot  from  hell,  .  .  . 
Cry  '  Havoc,"  and  let  slip  the  dogs  of  war." 
Sliakesiieare :  Julius  C'cesar,  iii.  1, 


Atellanae 


Atomic  Philosophy 


Atella'nae  or  AteU'an  Fables.  Inter- 
ludes in  the  Roman  theatres,  introduced 
from  Atella,  in  Campa'nia.  The  char- 
acters of  Macohus  and  Bucco  are  the 
foundations  of  our  Punch  and  Clown. 
{See  Punch.) 

Ater'gata.  A  deity  with  the  upi^er 
part  like  a  woman  and  the  lower  part 
like  a  tish.  She  had  a  temple  at  As'ca- 
lon.     ('S'<r  Dagon.) 

Athana'sian  Creed,  so  called  be- 
cause it  embodies  the  opinions  of  Atha- 
na'sius  resj)ecting  the  Trinitj'.  It  was 
compiled  in  the  fifth  century  by  Hilary, 
Bislioji  of  Aries. 

V  In  the  Episcopal  Prayer  Book  of 
America  this  creed  is  omitted. 

Athel'stane  (3  syl.),  sumamed  "The 
Unready"  {i.e.  impolitic,  unwise),  thane 
of  Coniugsburgh.  {Sir  IValtcr  Scott : 
Ivajilioe.) 

Athenaeum  (the  review  so  called) 
was  founded  by  James  Silk  Buckingham 
in  18-9.  It  was  named  after  the  insti- 
tution founded  by  Hadrian,  where  works 
of  art  and  learning  were  dedicated  to 
AthruiG. 

Athe'nian  Bee.  Plato,  a  native  of 
Athens,  was  so  called  because  his  words 
flowed  with  the  sweetness  of  honey. 

Athens.  The  Modern  Athens,  i.e. 
Edinburgh.  Willis  says  that  its  singular 
resemblau'^e  to  Athens,  approached  from 
the  Piraeus,  is  very  striking. 

"  An  imiration  Acroii'olis  is  commenced  on  the 
Calton  Hill,  and  has  llJe  effect  of  tbe  Partlieiioii. 
Hyiiiettus  is  ratlier  move  lofty  than  the  Peutlaml 
hills,  and  Pentel'icus  is  farther  off  and  grander 
than  Arthur's  Seat  ;  but  the  old  Castle  of  Edin- 
liurjih  is  a  noble  feature,  superbly  inagniliceut." 
—J'encilliiKjs. 

Athens  of  Ireland.     Belfast. 

Alliens  of  the  New  World.  Boston, 
noted  for  its  literary  merit  and  institu- 
tions. 

Athens  of  the  West.  Cor'dova,  in  Spain, 
was  so  called  in  the  Middle  Ages. 

Athole  Brose  (Scotch).  A  com- 
pound of  oatmeal,  honey,  and  whisky. 

At  Home  {An').  A  notification  sent 
to  friends  that  the  lady  who  sends  it 
will  be  at  home  on  the  day  and  at  the 
hour  specified,  and  will  be  glad  to  see 
the  persons  mentioned  in  the  card  of 
invitation.  These  "At  homes"  are 
generally  held  in  an  afternoon  before 
dinner.  Light  refreshments  are  pro- 
vided, and  generally  some  popular  games 
are  introduced,  occasionally  music  and 
dancing. 

Not  at  Home.  Not  disengaged,  or 
prepared  for  the  reception  of  visitors; 
not  in  the  house. 


Atin.  Strife.  The  squire  of  Py- 
rochles,  and  stirrer  up  of  contention. 
{Spenser:  Fa'irie  Qiieene,  book  ii.) 

Atkins.     {See  Tojijiy  Atkins.) 

Atlante'an  Shoulders.  Shoulders 
able  to  bear  a  great  weight,  like  those 
of  Atlas,  which,  according  to  heathen 
mythology,  suxJi^orted  the  whole  world. 

"  Sage  he  stood, 
AVith  Atlantean  shouUlefS  fit  to  bear 
The  weight  of  nughtiest  monarchies." 

Milton :  Paradise  Lost,  book  ii.  305-7. 

Atlan'tes.  Figm-es  of  men,  used  in 
architecture  instead  of  pillars.  So  called 
from  Atlas,  who  in  Greek  mythology 
supijorted  the  world  on  his  shoulders. 
Female  figures  are  called  Caryat'ides 
{q.r.).     (6tY' Telamones.) 

Atlan'tes  (3  syl.)  (in  Orlando  Fnrioso). 
A  sage  and  a  magician  who  lived  in  an 
enchanted  palace,  and  brovight  up 
Roge'ro  to  all  manly  vh'tues. 

Atlan'tic  Ocean.   An  ocean,  so  called 

from  the  Atlas  mouutains. 

Atlant'is.  A  mythic  island  which 
contained  the  Elysian  Fields. 

Tlie  Neif  ^Lthnitis.  An  island  imagined 
by  Lord  Bacon,  where  was  establislied  a 
pliilosoiihical  commonwealth  bent  on  the 
cultivation  of  the  natural  sciences.  {See 
Utopia,  City  of  the  Sun.) 

Atlas.  King  of  Maurita'uia  in  Africa, 
fabled  to  have  supported  the  world  upon 
his  shoulders.  Of  course,  the  tale  is 
merely  a  poetical  way  of  saying  that  the 
Atlas  mountains  j)rop  up  the  heavens, 
because  they  are  so  lofty.  We  call  a 
book  of  maps  an  "Atlas,"  because  it 
contains  or  holds  the  world.  The  word 
was  first  employed  in  this  sense  by  Mer- 
ca'tor,  and  the  title-page  of  his  collec- 
tion of  maps  had  the  figure  of  Atlas 
with  the  world  on  his  back. 

"  Bid  Atlas,  propping  heaven,  as  poets  feign, 
His  subteriaueau  wonders  spread  ! " 

Thomson :  Autumn,  797-8. 

Atman,  in  Buddhist  philosophy,  is  the 
noumeuon  of  one's  own  self.  Not  the 
Ego,  but  the  ego  divested  of  all  that  is 
objective  ;  the  "  sj)ark  of  heaveulj' 
flame." 

"The  unseen  and  unperceivable,  which  was 
forinerlv  i-alleil  the  soul,  was  now  called  the  self, 
Atmau."  Nothiu'-'  covild  be  predicated  of  it  ex- 
cept that  it  was.  that  it  perceived  and  thought, 
and  that  it  must  be  blessed."  —  Max  Muller: 
Niucttcntli  Century,  May,  181)3,  p.  777. 

Atom'ic  Philosophy.  The  hypo- 
thesis of  Leucippus,  Democritus,  and 
Epicurus,  that  the  world  is  composed 
of  a  congeries  of  atoms,  or  particles  of 


Atomic  Theory 


78 


Atticus 


matter  so  minute  as  to  be  incapable  of 
further  diminution. 

iif  course  it  is  (luite  init'ossibleeven  to  tbiuk  of 
a  portion  ol  matter  which  has  lujt  an  uiiper  and 
under  side,  -witli  some  lireadth  and  thickness. 

"AccordiugtoDeinocvIluSjthecxiiouuder  of  the 
Atomic  Theory  of  matter,  imaKes  composed  of 
the  flnesD  atoms  floated  from  the  object  to  the 
mini."— McCosh :  Psychological  Cognitive  Powers, 
p.  -23. 

Atoni'ic  Theory.  That  all  elemental 
bo(.lies  consist  of  aggregations  of  atoms, 
not  united  fortuitously,  but  according  to 
fixed  proportions.  The  four  laws  of 
Dalton  are — constant  proportion,  recip- 
rocal proportion,  multiple  proportion, 
and  compound  j)roi3ortion. 

■.•  This  lias  notliins;  to  do  with  tlie  atomic 
theory  of  Lcncippiis.  It  merely  means  that  trases 
and  other  eleiiioiits  always  combine  in  certain 
known  ratios  or  units. 

Atomic  Volume.  The  space  occu- 
pied by  a  quantity,  compared  with,  or 
in  projiortion  to,  atomic  weight. 

Atomic  Weight.  The  weight  of  an 
atom  of  an  element,  compared  with  an 
atom  of  hydrogen,  the  standard  of  unity. 

Atos'sa.  Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marl- 
borough, so  called  by  Pope,  becavise  she 
was  the  friend  of  Lady  Mary  Wortley 
Montague,  whom  he  calls  Sapplio.  He- 
rod'otus  says  that  Atossa,  the  mother 
of  Xerxes,  was  ;i  follower  of  Sapjiho. 

Atrip.  The  anchor  is  atrip  when  it 
has  just  been  drawn  from  the  ground 
in  a  perpendicular  direction.  A  sail  is 
(drip  when  it  has  been  hoisted  from  tlie 
cap,  tmd  is  ready  for  trimming.  The 
word  is  from  the  Norwegian  and  Danish 
trip,  a  short  step. 

Attaint.  A  term  in  chivalry,  mean- 
ing to  strike  the  helmet  and  shield  of  an 
antagonist  so  firmly  with  the  lance,  held 
in  a  direct  line,  as  either  to  break  the 
lance  or  overthrow  the  person  struck. 
Hence  to  "attaint  of  treason,"  etc. 

"  Attaint  was  a  term  of  tiltiuy,  used  to  express 
the  champion's  having  attained  his  mark,  or,  in 
other  words,  struck  his  lance  straight  and  fair 
against  the  helmet  or  breast  of  his  adversary."— 
Sif  Wiilttr  .Scott :  The  Monastery  (n^ln)- 

At'tercop.  An  ill-tempered  person, 
who  mars  all  sociability.  Strictly  speak- 
ing, the  attercoj)  is  the  poison-siiider. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  attcr,  poison  ;  cop,  spider. 
Oiu-  cob-web  should  be  cop-web,  i.e. 
spider-web.) 

Attic  Bee  (T/ie).  Soph'ocles,  the 
tragic  poet,  a  native  of  Athens  ;  so 
called  from  the  great  sweetness  of  his 
compositions,     (e.g.  495-405.) 

Attic  Bird  (T/ie).     The  niglitingalu  ; 


so    called    because    Philomel    was    the 
daughter  of  the  King  of  Athens. 

"  Where  the  Attic  liinl 
Trills  her  thick-warblcdiiotes  the  summer  long." 
Milton:  Paiadisc  Rajaiiwd,  \\.  i.'4,j-C. 

Attic  Boy  {The).  Cephaios,  beloved 
by  Aurora  or  Morn ;  passionately  fond 
of  hunting. 

'■  Till  civil-suited  Morn  appear. 
Not  tricked  and  frounced,  as  she  was  wont 
With  the  Attic  boy  to  hunt, 
But  kerchiefed  in  a  conicly  cloud." 

Miltciii :  11  Penseroso. 

Attic  Faith.  luviohible  faith,  the 
very  opposite  of  "Piuiic  Fiiith." 

Attic  Muse  (The).  Xenophon,  the 
historitiu,  a  native  of  Athens ;  so  ctilled 
because  the  style  of  his  composition  is  a 
model  of  elegance,     (e.g.  444-359.) 

Attic  Order,  in  architecture,  a  square 
column  of  any  of  the  five  orders.  {Sec 
Oedees.) 

Attic  Salt.  Elegant  and  delicate  wit. 
Stilt,  botli  in  Latin  and  Greek,  was  a 
common  term  for  icit,  or  si^arkling 
thought  well  expressed :  thus  Cicero 
says,  '■^  Scipio  out  lies  sale  s/cpeya'bat^'' 
(Scipio  surpassed  all  in  wit).  The 
Athenians  were  noted  for  their  wit  and 
elegant  turns  of  thought,  and  hence 
Attic  salt  means  wit  as  pointed  and 
delicately  expressed  as  by  the  Athenians. 
"Attic  point,"  wit. 

Attic  Science.  A  knowledge  of 
Attic  Greek. 

Attics,  Attic  Storey.  Attics  are  tlie 
rooms  in  the  attic  storey,  and  the  attic 
storey  generally  is  an  extra  storey  made 
in  the  roof.  In  the  Roman  and  Renais- 
s.ance  styles  of  architecture  the  low  storey 
above  the  cornice  or  entablature  is  called 
the  "Attic."  Professor  Goldstucker 
derives  the  word  from  the  Sanskrit 
attaha  (a  room  on  the  top  of  a  house). 
{See  The  Transactions  of  the  Philo- 
logical Society,  1854.) 

Attic  storcij.      The  head;    the  body 
being  comjiared  to  a  house,  the  head  is 
the  highest,  or  attic  storey. 
"  Here  a  gentleman  present,  win;  had  in  his  attic 

More  pepper  than  brains,  shrieked :  '  The  man's 
a  fanatic' " 

Lowell:  Fahlefor  Critics  (stanza  .'jO). 

Ill  fitrmshed  in  the  attic  storey.  Not 
clever,  dull. 

Queer  in  the  attic  storeij.  Fuddled, 
partitxlly  intoxicated. 

At'ticus.  The  most  elegant  and 
finished  scholar  of  tlie  Romans.  His 
admirable  taste  and  sound  judgment 
wei'C  so  highly  thought  of  that  even 
Cicero  submitted  to  him  several  of  his 
treatises. 


Attingians 


74         Augsburg  Confession 


The  English  A  tt  kits.  Joseph  Addison  ; 
so  called  by  PoiDe,  on  account  of  his 
refined  taste  and  pliilosophical  mind. 
(1672-1719.) 

The  Christian  Afticns.  Reginald 
Heber,  Bishop  of  Calcutta.  (1783- 
1826.) 

The  Irish  Atticus.  George  Faulkner ; 
so  called  by  Lord  Chesterfield.  (1700- 
177.3.) 

Attin'gians.  Heretics  of  the  eighth 
century,  who  solemnised  baptism  with 
the  words,  "I  am  the  living  water." 
(Attin,  a  name  of  Nejitune.) 

Attock.  The  forbidden  river,  beyond 
which  no  pure  Hindoo  can  i)ass. 

Attorney,  Solicitor  (French, 
atoiirucr,  to  attorn,  or  tuni  over  to 
another).  One  legally  qualified  to 
manage  matters  in  law  for  others,  and 
to  prosecute  or  defend  others,  as  the  case 
may  be.  A  solicitor  is  one  who  solicits 
or  petitions  in  Courts  of  Equity  on 
behalf  of  his  clients.  At  one  time 
solicitors  belonged  to  Courts  of  Equity, 
and  attorneys  to  the  other  courts. 

From  and  after  Act  36,  37  Vict.  Ixvi.  87,  "all 
persnus  adiiiitteil  as  solicitors,  attorneys,  or 
prectors  ....  empowered  to  practise  in  any 
court,  the  jurisdiction  of  which  is  hcieliv  Ma.ns- 
ferrcd  to  the  Hi^'h  ('(uirt  of  .Tnsticp,  or  Ihe  t'ourt 
of  Appeal,  shall  he  called  Solicitors  of  the  Su- 
proii.e  Court."   (1873.) 

Power  of  At  for  net/.  Legal  au- 
thority given  to  another  to  collect  rents, 
pay  wages,  invest  money,  or  to  act  in 
matters  stated  in  the  instrument  on  your 
behalf,  according  to  his  own  judgment. 
In  such  cases  (]uod  aliquis  facit  per  ali- 
qucm,facit  per  se. 

Warrcoit  of  Attornei/.  The  legal  in- 
strument which  confers  on  another  the 
"Power  of  Attorney." 

A'tys.  Metamorphosed  into  a  fir-tree 
by  Cyb'ele.  Sec  the  poem  by  Catullus, 
translated  by  Leigh  Hunt. 

Au  Courant  (French),  "acquainted 
with  "  (lit.  =  in  the  current  [of  events]). 
To  hecp  one  cm  eourunt  of  cverijtJiiue/ 
that  passes,  is  to  keep  one  famihar  with, 
or  iufonned  of,  passing  events. 

Au  Fait  (French) .  Skilful,  thorough 
master  of;  as,  He  is  ([Hitc  au  fait  in  those 
viiittcrs,  i.e.  quite  master  of  them  or 
conversant  with  them. 

Au  Grand  S^rieux  (French).  In 
sober  earnest. 

"  We  are  not  asked  to  take  these  narratives  »« 
(lidiiil  si'iirti.i:  They  are  rather  sketches  of  the 
past,  ilhislrai  ini,'  what  could  have  heen  d(me, 
and  may  he  done  awiin  hy  wonien  .  .  .  ."— 
Aiitfx  and  (Jncrita  (Nvtcn  on  Hooks,  Juue  10,  18'J3, 
p.  45'JJ. 


Au  Pied  de  la  Lettre  (French). 
Literatim  et  verhntini ;  according  to  the 
strict  letter  of  the  text. 

"  In  reading  an  r'led  de  la  httre  the  stcu'y  of  his 
rUnddlia's]  fatal  illness  supervened  on  a  meal  of 
(hied  lioar's  tlesh,'  served  to  him  hy  a  certain 
K\\ni\:\."—Ximtecnth  Century  (Juue,  18!I3,  p.  1020). 

Au  Revoir  (French).  "  Good  bye 
for  the  ijreseut."  Literally,  till  seeing 
i/oii  (Kja'tn. 

Aubry's  Dog.    (.SVy-  Dog.) 

Au'deanism.  The  doctrine  of  Au'- 
deus  of  Mesopotamia,  who  lived  in  the 
fourth  century.  He  maintained  that  the 
Old  Testament  justifies  the  belief  that 
God  has  a  sensible  form  (Gen.  i.  26) . 

Audhum'la  [the  nonrishing  poire)'], 
in  Sctuidiuavian  mythology,  is  the  cow 
created  by  Surt  to  nourish  Ymir.  She 
supplied  him  with  foin-  rivers  of  milk, 
and  was  herself  nourished  by  licking  the 
rocks.     (Sec  Ymir.) 

V  Bor,  the  first  man,  was  made  by 
Audhumla  licking  salt  from  the  snow. 
Odin  was  the  son  of  Bor. 


Audley.  JFe  trill  John  Aiullei/  it, 
i.e.  abridge  it.  A  theatrical  jjhrase. 
In  the  eighteenth  century  one  Shuter 
had  a  travelling  company  which  visited 
different  fairs.  It  was  his  custom  to 
lengthen  out  his  performance  till  a 
gootlly  number  of  newcomers  had  col- 
lected on  the  open  stage  of  his  theatre, 
when  a  boy  called  out  John  Andleg,  and 
the  play  which  was  going  on  inside  was 
brought  to  an  end  as  soon  as  possible. 
(17.59.) 

Aud'rey.  A  coimtry  wench,  who 
jilted  William  for  Touchstone.  {Shake- 
speare :  As  Yon  Like  It.) 

Auge'an  Stables.  The  stables  of 
Augeas,  King  of  Elis,  in  Greece.  In 
these  stables  he  had  kept  3,000  oxen, 
and  the  stalls  had  not  been  cleansed  for 
thirty  years.  When  Hercules  was  ap- 
pointed to  cleanse  these  stables,  he 
caused  two  rivers  to  run  through  them. 

2h  cleanse  the  Angean  stables.  To 
clear  away  an  accumulated  mass  of 
corruption,  moral,  religious,  physical,  or 
legal.  To  refonn  wrongs  almost  past 
the  power  of  man  to  tackle. 

Augsburg  Confession.  The  chief 
standard  of  faith  in  the  Luthertin 
church.  So  called  because,  while  the 
Diet  of  the  German  Empire  was  sitting 
at  Augsburg,  in  1.530,  the  confession  of 
faith  drawn  up  by  Melancthon  and 
Luther  was  presented  to  Charles  V. 


August 


75 


Aunt  Sally 


Au'gury  meaus  properly  the  func- 
tion of  an  augur  (jjerhaps  from  arlmii 
(fnrritifs).  St.  Pierre  says:  "The 
first  navigators,  when  out  of  sight  of 
land,  watched  the  flight  of  birds,  as 
indications  of  the  shore,  and  ^snth  no 
other  guidance  discovered  many  new 
islands."  From  this  custom  (he  says) 
arose  the  practice  of  consulting  birds 
before  entering  on  any  important  enter- 
prise.    {Stiidit's.) 

August.  The  sixth  month  (beginning 
from  March)  was  once  called  scxtlUs, 
but  was  changed  to  Augustus  in  com- 
pliment to  Augustus  Ciesar  of  Rome, 
whose  "  lucky  month  "  it  was,  in  which 
occurred  many  of  his  most  fortmiate 
events. 

The  preceding  mouth  (July),  origin- 
ally called  Qini/tllif:,  had  already  been 
changed  to  JuUus  in  honom-  of  Julius 
Caesar. 

Augusta.  London  ;  so  called  by  the 
Romans. 

"  Oft  let  me  wauder  o'er  the  acwy  fields, 

(ir  ascend 

Some  eminence,  Augusta,  in  thy  plains, 
And  see  the  country  far  diffused aioiuid." 
Thomson  :  Upriurj,  lOi",  107-ii. 

Augustan  Age.  Tlie  best  literary 
period  of  a  nation  ;  so  called  from  Au- 
gustus, the  Emperor  of  Rome,  the  most 
jjalmy  time  of  Latin  literature.  Horace, 
Ovid,  Propertius,  Tibullus,  Virgil,  etc., 
flourished  in  this  reign. 

Aiifiiistfui  Af/e  of  English  Literature. 
Begimiing  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth  and 
ending  in  that  of  James  I.  For  list  of 
authors,  see  Historic  Note-book,  p.  59. 

^liif/if.'itai?  Ar/e  of  China,  Franee, 
Germaiuj,  Hitidustan,  TorUKjaJ,  etc.,  see 
ditto. 

Augustan  History.  A  series  of 
histories  of  the  Roman  Empire  from  lo7 
to  2So,  ascribed  to  the  six  following 
authors  :  Delius  Spartifinus,  JuUus 
Capitollnus,  ^lius  Lampridius,  Vul- 
catius  G-allicanus,  TrebelUus  Pollio,  and 
Flaxnus  Vopiscus. 

Augustine  {The  Seeoiid).  Thomas 
Aquinas,  also  called  the  Aiit/clic  JJoetor. 
(1224- 1270.) 

Augustinians.  Friars  or  nuns  of 
the  Augtistine  Order,  estabHshed  in  the 
eleventh  century  in  commemoration  of 
St.  Augustine,  and  in  imitation  of  the 
ancient  order  founded  by  liim  in  the 
fourth  century. 

Those  who  believe,  on  the  authority 
of  St.  Augustine,  in  absolute  |)redestiua- 
tion  and  effectual  grace.  Tliat  is,  that 
predestination  is  quite  indejiendent  of 
man,  and  that  arrace  has  no  reference  to 


preceding  piety  and  moral  conduct,  but 
is  vouchsafed  by  God's  own  absolute 
will.  Whom  He  would  He  did  pre- 
destinate, and  "whom  He  did  predes- 
tinate, them  He  also  called"  (Romans 
viii.  30). 

Augustus.  No  proper  name,  but  a 
mere  title  given  to  Octavian,  because 
he  was  head  of  the  jjriesthood.  In  the 
reign  of  Diocle'tian  the  two  emperors 
were  each  styled  Auynstus  (sacred 
majesty),  and  the  two  viceroys  CUesar. 
Prior  to  that  time  Ha'ch'ian  limited  the 
title  of  C(csar  to  the  heir  presumjitive. 

AHf/nstiis.  Philijipe  II.  of  France  ;  so 
called  because  he  was  born  in  the  month 
of  August.     (1165,1180-1223.) 

Sigismund  II.  of  Poland.  (1520,  1548- 
1572.) 

Aulay,  in  Indian  mythology,  is  the 
horse  with  a  huge  trunk,  on  which  Baly 
the  giant  rode. 

'■ThrouKh  the'?e  \nde  iioitals  oft  harl  Baly  rode 
Trinmiihaut  from  his  inoud  aluide, 
When,  in  his  greatness,  he  hcstnide 
The  Aulay,  hugest  of  finir-f<iiited  kind. 
Till'  Aulav-horse,  that  in  his  force 
Willi  fici'hantine  trunk,  could  l.iiid 
And  lifl  thcelci.hant.an.l  on  ihewind 
^Vhjrl  hini  awai ,  wi(h  sway  .and  swing, 
E'en  like  a  iielil)le  from  the  practised  sling." 
Soatheij :  Cuysu  of  Kdiauia,  .wi.  '2. 

Auld  Brig  and  New  Brig,  of  Robert 
Burns,  refers  to  the  bridges  over  the 
river  Ayr,  in  Scotland. 

Auld  Hornie.  After  the  establish- 
ment of  Christianity,  the  heathen  deities 
were  degraded  by  the  Chm-ch  into  fallen 
angels  ;  and  Pan,  with  his  Iioms,  crooked 
nose,  goat's  beard,  pointed  ears,  and 
goats'  feet,  was  transformed  to  his  Sa- 
tanic majesty,  and  called  Old  Horny. 

"  O  thou,  whatever  title  suit  thee, 
Auld  Horuie,  Satan,  Nick,  or  Clootie." 

Hums. 

Auld  Reekie.  Edinburgh  old  town  ; 
so  called  because  it  generally  ajipears 
to  be  capped  by  a  cloud  of  "reek"  or 
smoke. 

Aulic  Council.  The  council  of  the 
Kaiser  in  the  old  German  Empire,  from 
wliich  there  was  no  appeal  (1495-1806) 
(Latin,  aula,  a  court).  The  name  is 
now  given  in  Austria  to  a  council  of 
Vienna  which  manages  the  war  de^jart- 
ment  of  the  Austrian  Emjiire. 

Aunt  Sally.  A  game  in  which  a 
wooden  head  is  mounted  on  a  pole.  The 
fun  of  the  game  is  to  knock  the  nose  of 
the  figure,  or  break  the  pipe  stuck  in  its 
moutii.  This  is  to  be  done  by  throwing 
nt  it,  from  a  stated  distance,  a  short 
club.      The    word    aiod   was   anciently 


Aureola 


76 


Autolycus 


applied  to    any  old  woman :    thus,    in 

Shakespeare,  Puck  speaks  of 

"  Tlie  wisest  aunt  telling  tlie  saddest  tal(^" 
JiUdaummer  Night's  Dream,  ii.  1. 

Aure'ola.  A  cii-cle  of  light,  emble- 
matical of  glory,  placed  by  the  old 
painters  round  the  heads  of  martyrs  and 
saints.  The  notion  was  derived  from 
Exod.  XXV.  2o.  Fades  coro'nam  aurc'olam 
("Thou  shalt  by  thine  own  merits  make 
for  thyself  a  crown,  besides  that  of  gold 
which  God  has  promised  to  the  faith- 
ful") {I)o)iHc:  Sermonx).  Strictly  speak- 
ing, the  glory  confined  to  the  head  alone 
is  a  itiiiibus,  and  only  when  it  envelops 
the  entire  body  is  it  called  an  aureola. 

I)u  Canire  iufDrins  us  that  the  aureola  of  nuns 
is  irliltr,  I  if  martyrs  red,  and  of  doctors  green. 

■.■  The  nhii))us  of  a  Christ  should  contain  a 
cross  ;  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  a  circlet  of  stars  :  of 
God  the  Fatlier,  a  triangle  with  rays  ;  of  a  living 
saint,  a  square  without  Vays. 

"They  siiy,  wlm  know  the  life  divine, 
And  uinvaiil  gaze  with  eagle  eyne, 
That  liy  each  golden  crown  on  high, 
Rich  with  celestial  jewelry, 
Which  for  our  Lord's  redeemed  is  set, 
There  hangs  a  radiant  coronet, 
All  gemmed  with  pure  and  living  light 
Too  dazzling  for  a  sinner's  sight, 
Prepared  for  vii-giu  souls,  and  them 
Who  seek  the  martyr's  diadem." 

Kehle:  Christian  Yeur. 

Au'ri.  Aiiri  sacra  fames  (the  cui-sed 
hunger  for  wealth),  api^lied  to  that  rest- 
less craving  for  money  which  is  almost  a 
monomtiuia. 

Aurora.  Early  morning.  Accord- 
ing to  Grecian  mythology,  the  goddess 
Aurora,  called  by  Homer  "rosy-fin- 
gered, ' '  sets  out  before  the  sun,  and  is 
the  pioneer  of  his  rising. 
"  You  cannot  shut  the  windows  of  the  sky, 
Through  which  Aurora  shows  ber  hrightening 
face." 

Thomson:  Castle  of  Indolence,  canto  ii.  3. 

Aurora's  tears.    The  morning  dew. 

Auro'ra  Austra'lis.  The  Southern 
lights,  a  similar  phenomenon  to  the 
"  Aurora  Borealis." 

Auro'ra  Borealis  (Latin).  The  elec- 
trical lights  occasionally  seen  in  the 
northern  jiart  of  the  sky ;  also  called 
"  Northern  Lights,  "  and  "  Merry 
Dancers."     {See  Derwentwatee.) 

Aurora  Raby.  A  rich,  noble  English 
orphan  ;  left  to  the  care  of  guardians  ;  a 
Catholic  in  religion  ;  and  in  person 

"A  rose  with  all  its  sweetest  leaves  yet  folded." 
Bj/rnii :  Don  Jnan,  xv.  -13. 

Aurora  Septentriona'lis.  Same 
as  Aurora  Australis  {q.v.). 

Auso'nia.  An  ancient  name  of  Italy ; 
so  called  from  Auson,  son  of  Ulysses,  and 
father  of  tlie  Auso'nOs. 

"  All  the  green  delights  Ausonia  pours." 

ThuiHson :  .Sammer,  O.Vi. 


Auspices.  Under  your  good  auspices, 
i.e.  through  your  influence,  or  the  in- 
fluence of  your  good  name.  Li  Rome 
only  the  Commander-in-Chief  was  allowed 
to  take  the  auspices  of  war.  If  a  legate 
gained  a  victor}',  he  was  said  to  wui  it 
under  the  good  auspices  of  his  superior 
in  command. 

"Auspex"  is  from  avispe.r  {arts  and 
spirtu),  one  who  observes  the  flight,  etc., 
of  birds. 

Aus'ter.  A  wind  pernicious  to  flowers 
and  health.  In  Italy  one  of  the  South 
winds  was  so  ctilled  ;  its  modern  name  is 
the  Sirocco.  (Greek,  austc'ros,  hot,  dry). 
In  England  it  is  a  damp  wind,  generally 
bringing  wet  weather. 

"  Nought  liut  putrid  streams  and  noisome  fogs. 
For  ever  hung  on  drizzly  Auster's  heard." 

Thunisun  :  Castle  of  Indolence,  ii.  78. 

Austin  Friars.    Friars  of  the  Order 

of  St.  Augustine.     {See  Begging.) 

Austrian  Lip.  The  thick  under-lip, 
chaiacteristic  of  the  house  of  Haps'burg. 
Derived  from  Cymburgis,  daughter  of 
Ziemovitz,  Duke  of  Maso'via,  and  niece 
of  the  then  King  of  Poland.  Cymburgis 
was  noted  for  her  beauty  and  unusual 
strength. 

Aut  Csesar  aut  nuUus  [Latin, 
FAther  Cicsar  or  no  owe],  everything  or 
nothing ;  all  or  not  at  all.  Caesar  used 
to  say,  "  he  would  sooner  be  first  in  a 
village  than  second  at  Eome."  Milton 
makes  Satan  say, 

"  Better  to  reign  in  Hell,  than  serve  in  Heaven." 
Milton :  Par.  Lost,  i.  263. 

{Sec  Six.) 

Authentic  Doctor.  Gregory  of 
Rim'ini.     (Fourteenth  century.) 

Auto  da  Fe.  lA)i  act  of  faith.']  A 
day  set  apart  by  the  Inquisition  for  the 
examination  of  "  heretics."  Those  not 
acijuitted  were  burnt.  The  reason  why 
inquisitors  burnt  their  victims  was,  be- 
cnuse  they  are  forbidden  to  "  shed 
blood  "  ;  an  axiom  of  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic Church  being,  '^  Fec/e'.^-ia  non  norit 
sau'r/uiiiem  "  (the  chui-ch  is  untainted 
with  blood). 

Autol'ycus.  The  craftiest  of  thieves. 
He  stole  the  flocks  of  his  neighbours,  and 
changed  then'  marks.  Si'syphos  out- 
witted him  by  marking  his  slieep  imder 
their  feet,  a  device  wliich  so  tickled  the 
rogue  that  he  instantly  "cottoned"  to 
him.  Shakespeare  introduces  him  in 
'The  Winter''s  'Tale  as  a  pedlar,  and  says 
he  was  called  the  son  of  Mercurj',  because 


Automaton 


77 


Avernus 


he    was   boru    uuder    tliat    ' '  tliieviug 
planet." 

"  Autolycus  is  no  lapidary,  tliouirli  he  drives  a 
roaring  trade  in  flash  jewellery."  —  Pall  Mall 
Gazette. 

Automaton — plural,  axtomafoiis  or 
(uito))Kit(t.  Machines  which  imitate  the 
actious,  etc.,  of  living  creatures.  The 
most  famous  are  the  following  : — (1)  The 
pigeon  that  could  fly,  made,  B.C.  400,  by 
Archy  tas,  of  Tareutum  ;  ('2)  the  wooden 
cafilc  of  Regiomonta'nus,  the  German, 
which  flew  from  the  city  of  Kcenigsberg 
to  meet  the  emperor,  saluted  him,  and 
returned,  1436-1476;  (3)  the  duck  of 
Vaucanson  of  Grenoble,  which  could  eat 
and  drink,  and  even  in  a  way  digest 
food ;  its  wings,  \'iscera,  bones,  etc., 
minutely  resembled  those  of  a  living 
animal.  Vaucanson  also  made  an  image 
of  Pan,  which,  at  the  beck  of  Syrinx, 
rose  from  his  seat,  played  on  his  pipe, 
bowed  when  applauded,  and  sat  down 
again.  He  also  made  an  asp  which, 
on  being  touched  by  an  actress,  in  the 
character  of  CIeof)atra,  flew  at  her  breast 
with  a  malignant  hiss.  Louis  XV.  set 
him  to  make  a  human  figure,  but  he  died 
before  he  had  completed  it.  (Greek, 
tiutos-mao,  I  self-move.)  (&'t' Android.) 

'.*  Pierre  Droz  and  his  son  Louis  were 
noted  for  their  automatons ;  so  was 
Frederick  of  Knause  (Vienna).  The 
chess-player  of  Wolfgang,  baron  of 
Kempelen,  in  1784,  created  quite  a  furor 
in  Paris.  Napoleon  on  one  occasion 
jilayed  chess  with  tliis  automaton.  {!Sce 
BeIzex  Heads.) 

Autom'edon.  A  coachman.  He  was 
the  charioteer  of  Achilles. 

Autumn.  Ho  is  come  to  Ins  atitiini)), 
i.e.  to  be  hanged,  to  his  "fall."  A 
pun  on  the  plan  of  ''turning  a  man  ofE  " 
by  dropping  the  plank  on  which  he 
stands.  The  drop  is  the  "leaf,"  and 
autumn  is  called  the  "fall,"  or  "fall  of 
the  leaf." 

A'va,  in  Burmah,  has  marble  quarries 
of  which  idols  are  made,  and  only  priests 
are  allowed  to  trade  there.  {Si/nws,  vol. 
ii.  p.  376.) 

"  As  on  Ava's  shore. 

Where  none  liut  priests  are  privileged  to  trade 

In  that  best  iiiurlile  of  which  Kods  are  made." 
T.  Mocre:  Lalla  Ruokh,  part  1. 

Avalanche  (3  syl.)  means  properly 
something  which  goes  downwards 
(French,  a  val).  The  word  is  applied  to 
a  mass  of  snow  mixed  with  earth,  ice, 
and  stones,  which  slips  down  a  mountain 
side  to  the  lower  ground.  Metaphoric- 
ally, we  speak  of  an  ' '  avalanche  of 
applause,"  an  "avalanche  of  bouquets" 
showered  on  the  stage,  etc. 


Avalon.  An  ocean  island,  where 
King  Arthur  resided  and  was  buried. 
The  word  means  "  Aj)ple  island  "  {aval, 
apple  ;  //«',  island)  ;  and  it  is  generally 
thought  to  mean  Glastonbury,  a  name 
derived  from  the  Saxon  glastn  (green 
like  glass). 

Avant  Courier.  (French,  arant 
coiirrirr.)  A  "  messenger  sent  before" 
to  get  things  ready  for  a  party  of  tra- 
vellers, or  to  announce  their  approach. 
Anything  said  or  done  to  prepare  the 
way  for  something  more  important  to 
follow  ;  a  feeler,  a  liarbiuger. 

Avant  Garde.  (French.)  The  van 
or  advanced  guard  of  an  army. 

Avatar'.  The  advent  to  earth  of  a 
deity  in  a  visible  form .  The  ten  aviita'ras 
of  Vishnu,  in  Hindii  mythology,  are  by 
far  the  most  celebrated.  1st  advent,  in 
the  form  of  a  fish ;  2nd,  in  that  of  a 
tortoise  ;  3rd,  of  a  hog  ;  4th,  of  a  mon- 
ster, half  man  and  half  lion,  to  destroy 
the  giant  Iranian  ;  .5th,  in  the  form  of  a 
dwarf  (this  AvStar  is  called  Vartimna)  ; 
6th,  in  human  form,  under  the  name  of 
Ruma  ;  7th,  imder  the  same  figure  and 
name,  to  slay  the  thousand-armed  giant 
Cartas uciriargunan;  8th,  as  a  child  named 
Krishna,  who  performed  numerotis  mir- 
acles (this  is  the  most  memorable  of 
all  the  advents)  ;  9t]i,  under  the  form 
of  Buddha.  These  are  all  past.  The 
10th  advent  will  be  in  the  form  of  a 
white  horse  (Kalki)  with  wings,  to 
destroy  the  earth. 

"  In  Vishnu  land  what  avatar? 
Or  who  in  Moscow, towards  the  czar?" 
BroiciiiiKj. 

Ave  Mari'a  [Rail,  Mar;/  .']  (Ave,  2 
syl.).  The  first  two  words  of  the 
angel's  salutation  to  the  Virgin  Mary. 
(Luke  i.  28.)  Li  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  the  phrase  is  ajiplied  to  an  iji- 
vocation  to  the  Virgin  begiiming  with 
those  words ;  and  also  to  the  smaller 
beads  of  a  rosary,  the  larger  ones  being 
tevuied  p((ter-7iosters. 

Avenel  (2  syl.).  White  Ladtj  of 
Arencl.  A  tutelary  spirit  in  Scott's 
Monaster//. 

Avenger  of  Blood  (T/ie).  The  man 
who,  in  the  Jewish  polity,  had  the  right 
of  taking  vengeance  on  him  who  liad 
slain  one  of  his  kinsmen.  The  Avenger 
in  Hebrew  is  called  ffol^l. 

cities  of  refuse  were  appointed  for  the  pro- 
tection of  homicides,  an<l  of  those  who  had 
caused  another's  death  liy  accident.  The  Koran 
sanctions  the  Jewish  custom.  Family  feuds 
have  been  a  common  hunting  ground  of  poets 
and  nnvelists. 

Avernus  (Greek,  a-oriiis,  "without 
a  bird  ") .    A  lake  in  Campa'nia,  so  called 


Avertin 


78 


Axinoinancy 


from  the  belief  that  its  sulphurous  and 
raepliitic  vapours  killed  auy  bird  that 
happened  to  inhale  them.  Poets  call  it 
the  entrance  to  the  infernal  regions  ; 
hence  the  proverb,  Tltc  descent  to  Acernus 
i.s  easy,  but  cominy  back  ayaln  is  quite 
another  matter,  meaning  that  all  bad 
hnbits  are  easily  acquired,  but  very  hard 
to  be  abandoned. 

Av'ertin  (-SY.).  The  patron  saint  of 
lunatics ;  so  called  from  the  French 
arertincux  (lunatics). 

Aves'ta.  The  sacred  Scriptures  of  the 
Magians,  composed  by  Zoroaster.  Better 
known  as  the  Zend-Avesta  or  "living 
word  in  the  Zend  language." 

Aveu'gle.  Son  of  Erebus  and  Nox. 
{Spenser  :  Faerie  Qnccne.) 

Avie'nus.  A  writer  of  fables  iu  the 
decline  of  the  Roman  empire.  In  the 
Middle  Ages,  a  collection  of  fables  used 
to  be  called  Av'ynet,  or  E'sopet. 

A  vinculo  matrimonii  (Latin). 
Divorced  from  marriage  ties.  A  total 
divorce.  A  divorce  a  iiiensa  et  tliuro  is 
a  partial  divorce.  The  divorce  a  vinculo 
niatrimonii  is  because  the  marriage  was 
never  legal,  as  in  the  case  of  bigamy,  or 
marriage  within  the  prohibited  degrees  ; 
but  a  divorce  a  wensa  et  tJtoro  is  because 
the  parties  cannot  live  together  from 
incompatibility  of  temper,  iu  which  case 
they  may,  if  they  choose,  come  together 
again. 

Aviz.  An  order  of  knighthood  in 
Portugal,  founded  by  Sancho  I.,  and 
leaving  for  its  object  the  subjugation  of 
the  Moors. 

Avoid  Etxremes.  The  wise  saw  of 
Piftacos  of  Mityle'ue.     (B.C.  652-5G9.) 

Avoir.  Aroir  Martel  en  tete  (French). 
To  be  distracted.  Martel  is  a  hammer, 
hence  distraction,  torment,  tortnre. 

Avoirdupois.  French,  aroir,  aver  or 
arier,  goods  in  general,  and  poisc=poids 
(weight).  Not  the  verb,  but  the  noun 
aroir.  Properly  aroir  de  poids  (goods 
having  weight),  goods  sold  by  weight. 
We  have  the  word  aver,  meaning  goods 
in  general,  hence  also  cattle ;  whence 
such  compounds  as  aver-corn,  aver- 
jienny,  aver-silver,  aver-land,  and  so  on. 
We  have  also  thenoun  ''having,  havings  " 
=  possessions. 

Tlieie  is  a  i-diiiiiKm  French  xihva.^a avoir dnpoids 
(tn  l.c  \vri'_'lii  1,  with  which  our  word  avoirdupois 
liixs  licen  liiuililii'il  up. 
"  Pareii  my  iiresent  havings  [property]  to  hestow 

My  bouu'ties  upon  you." 

Ulialcespeare:  Henry  VIII.,  iii.  2. 


"  One  of  youi  liaving,  and  yet  carlv  and  care." 
Muses'  Lookinti  Glass. 
Kven  medicines,  as  wholesale  goods,  iireljought 
and  sold  by  avoirdupois  weight. 

A- weather.  The  reverse  of  a -lee. 
"A- weather"  is  towards  the  weather, 
or  the  side  on  which  the  wind  strikes. 
"  A-lee  "  is  iu  the  lee  or  shelter,  and 
therefore  opposite  to  the  wind  side ;  as 
helm  a-weather. 

Awkward.  French,  yauche,  not  dex- 
terous. Awk  means  the  left  liand. 
Hence  in  Holland's  I'latarclt  we  have 
•The  airkc  or  left  hand"  ;  and  again, 
"  They  receive  her  aickly  when  she  pre- 
senteth  .  .  .  the  right  hand."  {See 
Sinister.) 

Awkward  Squad.  In  military  lan- 
guage means  recruits  not  yet  fitted  to 
take  their  place  in  the  regimental  line. 

•.■  A  squad  is  a  troop  or  company  of  soldiers 
under  a  sergeant.  It  is  a  contraction  of  siiuad- 
roii.  A  squadron  of  cavalry  is  the  unit  of  a 
rcL-'imeut.  Three  or  fcnir  squadrons  make  a  regi- 
ment, and  a  certain  numlier  of  regiments  con- 
siifute  an  anuy.  In  naval  affairs  a  sqiuulron  is  a 
section  of  a  tle'et. 

Awl.  "  rU  pack  tip  my  airls  dinl 
he  yone,^''  i.e.  all  my  goods.  The  play  is 
on  awl  and  all. 

Axe.  "  To  haiiy  up  one''s  axe."  To 
retire  from  business,  to  give  over  a  use- 
less jH-oject.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
ancient  battle  -  axe,  hung  up  to  the 
gods  when  the  fight  was  done.  All 
classical  scholars  will  call  to  mind  the 
allusion  of  Horace  to  a  similar  Roman 
custom.  Being  snubbed  by  Pyrrha, 
he  says,  ' '  He  will  hang  up  his  axe 
upon  her  wall,"  or  more  literally,  his 
' '  drenched  garments  on  the  temple- 
walls  of  Neptune."  (1  Odes,  V.  U-17.) 
{See  Ask.) 

To  pat  the  axe  on  the  helve.  To  solve 
a  difficulty.  To  hit  the  right  nail  on 
the  head. 

To  send  the  axe  after  the  helve.  To 
spend  good  money  after  bad,  or  under 
the  hope  of  recovering  bad  debts. 

He  has  an  axe  to  yrind.  Some  selfish 
motive  in  the  background  ;  some  per- 
sonal interest  to  answer.  Franklin  tells 
of  a  man  who  wanted  to  grind  his  axe, 
but  had  no  one  to  turn  the  grindstone. 
Going  to  the  yard  where  he  saw  young 
Franklin,  he  asked  the  boy  to  show  him 
how  the  machine  worked,  and  kept 
praising  him  till  his  axe  was  ground, 
and  then  laughed  at  him  for  his  jiains. 

Ax'inoman'cy.  Divination  by  an 
axe ;  much  practised  by  the  ancient 
Greeks    with    a    view    of    discovering 


Ayah 


79 


Azymites 


crime.  An  agate  was  placed  ou  a  red- 
hot  axe,  aud  iudicated  the  guilty  itersou 
by  its  motion.     (Greek,  ax'ute  inantciu.) 

A'yah  (Auglo-Iudiau).  A  native 
Hindii  nm-se  or  lady's  maid. 

'•  Tlie  ;iyiUis,  m-  nurses,  are  said  to  be  the  best  in 
tlie  world."— /J.  Taylor:    Visit  to  India,  cliap.  ii. 

11.  .-sr. 

Aye'shah  (3  syl.)-  Mahomet's  second 
and  favourite  wife.  He  married  her 
when  slie  was  only  nine  years  old,  and 
died  in  her  arms. 

Ayrshire  Poet.  Robert  Bums,  born 
near  the  town  of  Ayr.     (17-39-1796.) 

Azaz'el.  The  scape-goat ;  so  called 
by  the  Jews,  because  the  high  priest 
cast  lots  ou  two  goats  ;  one  lot  was  for 
the  Lord,  and  the  other  lot  for  Azaz'el  or 
Satan,  and  the  goat  on  which  the  latter 
lot  fell  was  the  scajie-goat. 

Azaz'iel.  A  seraph  who  fell  in  love 
with  An'ah,  a  granddaughter  of  Cain. 
When  tlie  flood  came,  he  carried  her 
under  his  wing  to  some  other  planet. 
(£i/ron  :  Heaven  and  Earth.) 

Azaz'il.  In  Milton's  Paradise  Lost, 
Azazil  is  the  standard-bearer  of  the  in- 
fernal best.  According  to  the  Koran, 
when  God  commanded  the  angels  to 
worship  Adam,  Azazil  replied,  "Why 
should  the  son  of  fire  fall  down  before  a 
son  of  clay  'r  "  and  God  cast  him  out  of 
heaven.  His  name  was  then  changed 
to  Eblis,  wliich  means  "  despair." 

"Tlien  strais'lit  commands  that  at  the  warlike 
sound 
Of  trumpets  loud,  and  clarions,  he  upreareil 
His    mighty    standard  j    that    proud    honour 

claimed 
Azazil,  as  his  riijlit,  a  cherub  tall." 

union  :  Paradise  Lost,  book  i.  531-4. 

Azim.  The  young  convert  who  joined 
"  the  creed  and  standard  "  of  the  veUed 
prophet  of  Khorassau,  iu  Moore's  La//a 
Eookh.  When  he  was  witness  of  the 
prophet's  infamy,  he  joined  the  caliph's 
army,  aud  was  mainly  instrumental  in 
defeating  that  of  the  veiled  proj)het. 

Az'o,  Marquis  of  Este,  married  Pari- 
si'na,  who  fell  in  love  with  Hugo,  a 
natural  son  of  Azo.  The  marquis 
ordered  Hugo  to  be  beheaded ;  but  no 
one  knows  what  the  fate  of  Parisi'na 
was.  Azo,  at  any  rate,  mariied  again, 
and  had  a  family.  This  Azo  was  in 
reality  Niccolo  of  Perra'ra.  {Byron  : 
Parishia.) 

A'zor's  Mirror.  Zemi'ra  is  the  name 
of  the  ladj',  and  Azor  that  of  the  bear, 
in  Mannontel's  tale  of  lieatdi/  and  the 
Beast.       Zemi'ra    entreats    the     kind 


monster  to  let  her  see  her  father,  if  only 
for  a  few  moments  ;  so  drawing  aside  a 
cui'tain,  he  shows  him  to  her  in  a  magic 
mirror.  This  mirror  was  a  sort  of  tele- 
scope, which  rendered  objects  otherwise 
too  far  off  distinctly  visible. 

Az'oth.  The  panace'a  of  Paracelsus, 
regarded  by  his  followers  as  "  the  tinc- 
ture of  Ufe." 

Az'rael  (3  syl.).  The  angel  that 
watches  over  the  dj^ing,  and  takes  the 
soul  from  the  body.  The  angel  of  death. 
He  will  be  the  last  to  die,  but  wiU  do  so 
at  the  second  trump  of  the  archangel. 

"The  Mohammedan  doctors  say.that  Azrael  was 
commissioned  to  inflict  thepenalty  of  deathonall 
mankind."—//.  Christtnas.  ■ 

The  xv'uigs  of  Azrael.     The  approach 

of  death  ;  the  signs  of  death  coming  on 

the  dying. 

"Those  who  listen  in  the  .  .  .  watches  of  the 
night  for  the  wings  of  Azrael."— /fesa/it. 

Az'rafil.  The  archangel  commissioned 
to  blow  the  trumpet  of  the  resiuTcction. 
[The  Koran') 

Aztecs.  An  indigenotis  peojjle  of 
Mexico  who,  in  132;),  founded  Teuoch- 
titlan.  They  were  iu  the  zenith  of 
their  power  in  the  fom'teenth  and  fif- 
teenth centuries.  When  tlie  Spaniards 
arrived,  their  king  was  Montezuma ; 
their  supreme  god  was  Taoti  ;  and 
Huitzilopochtli  was  the  divine  protector 
of  their  nation,  to  whom  they  offered 
human  victims. 

Azuce'na.  An  old  gipsy  who  stole 
Mau'rico,  infant  son  of  Garzia,  the 
Conte  di  Luna's  brother.  ( Vcrdl :  II 
Troratorc.) 

Azure.  Sky  blue.  Represented  in 
royal  anns  by  the  j^l'iuet  .Tuiiiter,  in 
noblemen's  by  the  sapphire.  The 
ground  of  the  old  shield  of  France  was 
azure.  Emblem  of  fidelity  aud  truth. 
Represented  in  heraldic  devices  by  hori- 
zontal lines. 

Azu'riel.  The  fairy  who  owned  what 
we  call  Holland  Park.  King  Oberon 
gave  him  his  daughter  Kenua  iu  mar- 
riage when  he  drove  Albion  from  his 
empire.  Albion  invaded  Kensington,  the 
teiritory  of  King  Oberon,  but  was  slain 
in  battle  bj^  Aziuiel.     {Tic/cell.) 

Az'ymites  (3  syl.).  The  Roman  Cath- 
olics are  so  called  by  the  Greek  Church, 
because  the  holj'  wafers  used  by  them 
in  the  eucharist  are  made  of  unleavened 
bread.     (Greek,  aznmos,  unleavened.) 


80 


Babel 


B 

B.  This  letter  is  the  outline  of  a 
house.  It  is  called  in  Hebrew  bvth  (a 
liouse).  lu  Egyptian  hierology  this 
letter  is  a  sheep. 

B  stands  for  300.  Sclt  B.  trecciititin 
sibl  cof/iidtnin  retinere.  And,  again,  FA 
]i.  trccentiim  per  sc  retinere  ridetiir.  But 
with  a  H/ie  above,  it  denotes  3,000. 

F(ir  Becarre  and  Bcmol  (French  for  B  sharp 
and  B  flat),  see  Becauub. 

Marked  jcith  a  B  (French),  i.e.  a  poor 
thing.  In  the  French  language  almost 
all  personal  defects  begin  with  the  letter 
B  ;  e.g.  high  (squint-eyed),  borgnc  (one- 
eyed),  bourn  (hunij)ty),  boiteux  (lame), 
etc. 

Not  to  Jii/ow  B  from  a  battledoor.  To 
be  quite  illiterate,  not  to  know  even  his 
letters.  Miege  tells  ns  that  Jiornboo/cs 
used  to  be  called  battledoors.  The 
phrase  might  therefore  originally  mean 
not  to  know  the  B  of,  from,  or  out  of, 
your  hornbook.  But  its  more  general 
meaning  is  "  not  able  to  distinguish  one 
letter  from  another." 

"He  kiinupth  nut  a  B  from  a  hattlcduure."— 
IloirdI :  lUiiilish  Proverbs. 

"  Disi  iiiu'iiisli  a  B  from  a  battledore."— Pct/ici-; 
Uiils  lluriivbonk. 

I  Icnoiv  B  from  a  BhWs  foot.  Similar 
to  the  proverb,  "  I  know  a  hawk  from 
ahernshaw."  (6Ve  Hawk.)  The  bull's 
parted  hoof  somewhat  resembles  a  B. 

"There  were  members  who  scarcely  knew  B 
from  a  liuU's  finit."  —  BrackenOridye:  Modern 
Chiviilri/. 

B.  C.  Marled  with  B.C.  (bad 
character).  When  a  soldier  disgraced 
himself  by  insubordination  he  was 
formerly  marked  with  "B.  C."  before 
he  was  drummed  out  of  the  regiment. 

B.  and  S.    Brandy  and  soda-water. 

B.  K.  S.  The  name  of  "residence" 
given  by  officers  in  mufti,  who  do  ni.t 
wish  to  give  up  their  address.  The  word 
stands  for  BarracKS. 

B  Flats.  Bugs.  The  pun  is  "B" 
(the  initial  letter),  and  "flat,"  from  the 
flatness  of  the  obnoxious  insect.  Also 
called  Norfolk  Jlon-ards,  from  Mr.  Bugg, 
who  advertised  in  the  Times  that  he 
should  in  future  change  his  name  into 
"  Norfolk  Howard. "     {See  F  Shaep.) 

B.'s.  Four  B.^s  essential  for  soeial 
sacccss.  Blood,  brains,  bi'ass,  brads 
(money).     (American.) 

Beware  of  the  B.'s,  i.e.  the  British. 
A  Carlo w  caution. 

B.  of  B.  K.  Some  mysterious  initials 
applied    to    himself    in    his    diary    by 


Arthur  Orton,  "  tlie  Tichborne  Claim- 
ant." Supiiosed  to  denote  "  Baronet  of 
British  Kingdom." 

Baal-Peor  or  Bd'phegor.  The  Bria'- 
piis  of  the  ^Nlo'abites  and  Midiauites. 

Baal  Samin.  The  god  of  celestial 
jjlaccs. 

Baal  Shemesh.     The  Sun-god. 

Baal  Zeboub  [Beelzebub],  god  of 
corruption  or  of  flies.     {See  Flies.) 

Ba'ba.  Sameasyj^/^rt  (Tiu-kish).  Ali- 
baba is  "  father  Ali." 

Babau.  The  bogie  with  whicli 
nurses  in  Languedoc  terrify  unruly 
children. 

Babes  in  the  Wood.  (1)  Simple 
trustful  folks,  never  susi)icious,  and 
easily  gulled. 

(2)  Insurrectionary  hordes  that  in- 
fested the  mountains  of  Wicklow  and 
the  woods  of  Enuiscorthy  towards  the 
close  of  the  eighteenth  century.  {See 
Children.) 

(3)  Men  in  the  stocks  or  in  the  pillory. 

Babes  {Deities  of),  in  Rome.  VATI- 
CAN, or,  more  correctly,  VAGITAN-US 
{(J. v.),  the  god  who  caused  infants  to 
utter  their  first  erg.  FABULIN-US 
{q.r.),  the  god  to  whom  Roman  parents 
made  an  offering  when  an  infant  uttered 
its  first  word.  CUBA  (y.r.),  the  goddess 
who  kept  infants  quiet  in  their  cots. 
DOMIDU'CA,  the  goddess  who  brought 
young  children  safe  home,  and  kept 
guard  over  them  when  out  of  their 
l^arents'  sight. 

Babies  in  the  Eyes.  Tliat  is,  love 
in  the  expression  of  tlie  eyes.  Love  is 
the  little  babe  Cupid,  and  hence  the 
conceit,  originating  from  the  reflection 
of  the  onlooker  in  the  pupil  of  another's 
eyes. 

"  In  each  of  her  two  crystal  eyes 
Smileth  a  naked  l)oy  [Cupid]." 

Lord  Surrey. 
She  cliuior  about  his  neclc,  gave  him  ten  kisses, 
Toyed  with  his    locks,   looked  baliies  in  his 
eyes."  lleyivood  :  Love's  Mistress. 

Babel.  A  perfect  Babel.  A  thorough 
confusion.  "A  Babel  of  sounds."  A 
confused  uproar,  in  which  nothing  can 
be  heard  but  hiibbub.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  confusion  of  tongues  at  Babel. 
(Genesis  xi.) 
"  God  .  .  .  comes  down  to  see  their  city, 

and  in  derision  sets 

Upon  their  tongues  a  various  spirit,  to  raze 
Quite  nut  their  native  lanpua.cre,  and  instead 
T'>  snw  a  jangling  noise  of  words  unknown. 
F<irilnvith  a  hideous  gabble  rises  Inud 
Among  the  builders  ;  each  to  other  calls 
Not  understood.  .  .  .  Thus  w;ib  thelniilding  left 
Uidiculous,  anil  the  work  Ciiufiisi..ii  nnuicd." 
Milton :  Paradise  Lost,  xii.  48-6S. 


Babouc 


81 


Bacchus 


Babouc.    {See  Bacbuc.) 

Babouin.  Tuiscz-rous,  pvl'itc  hahuitiu; 
la'is^cz parlcz  voire  mere,  qm  est  pins  suyc 
que  voKa.  The  tale  or  fable  is  this :  A 
girl  oue  day  weut  to  make  au  oftering  to 
Veuus,  aud  prayed  the  goddess  to  give 
her  for  husband  a  young  mau  on  wlioni 
she  had  fixed  her  affections.  A  young 
fellow  hajipeued  at  the  time  to  be  behind 
the  image  of  Cujiid,  and  hearing  the 
petition,  replied,  "So  fine  a  gentleman 
is  not  for  such  as  you."  The  voice 
seemed  to  j^roceed  from  the  image,  aud 
the  girl  rejjlied,  ''Hold  your  tongue, 
you  little  monkey ;  let  youi-  mother 
speak,  for  she  is  vviaer  than  you." 

Baby  Charles.  So  James  I.  used 
to  call  his  son  Charles,  afterwards 
Charles  I. 

Babylon.  The  modern  BnhijIo)i.  So 
Loudon  is  sometimes  called,  on  account 
of  its  wealth,  luxurj',  and  dissipation. 

Babylonian  Numbers.  Xe  Jhihij- 
lonio.f  tentaris  iiiiiiicros.  Do  not  pry  into 
futurity  by  astrological  calculations  and 
lioroscopes.  Do  not  consult  fortune- 
tellers. The  Chaldieans  were  the  most 
noted  of  astrologers.  {Horace  :  Udets, 
book  i.  xi.  2.) 

Babylonish  Captivity.  The  seventy 
j'ears  that  the  Jews  were  captives  in 
Babjdon.  They  were  made  captives  by 
Nebuchadnezzar,  and  released  by  Cyrus 
(B.C.  5;38). 

Babylonish  Garment  {A).  Bahij- 
hmieii  rcvti!<,  a  garmeut  woven  with 
divers  colour's.     (I'/mi/,  viii.  7-1.) 

"  [  saw  amoug  the  spuil.s  a  auudly  BaliyluiusU 
ganueut."— Josliua  vii.  21. 

Baca.  T/ie  Valleif  of  Baea,  also 
called  the  Valley  of  Tears,  translated  in 
the  New  Version  "  the  Valley  of  Weep- 
ing," a^jparently  a  dry  sterile  valley, 
the  tj^pe  of  this  earth  spoilt  by  sorrow 
aud  sin.  "  Blessed  is  the  mau  .  .  . 
in  whose  heart  are  the  ways  of  them. 
Who  passing  through  the  valley  of  Baca 
make  it  a  well  .  .  ."  (Psabn  Ixxxiv. 
6).  That  man  is  blessed  whose  trust  in 
God  converts  adverse  circumstances  into 
proofs  of  divine  love.  "  Whom  He  loveth 
He  chasteneth."  They ' '  go  from  strength 
to  strength." 

In  the  mountains  of  Lebanon  is  a 
valley  called  Baca,  but  it  is  described  as 
fertile  and  very  delicious.  The  Valley 
of  Lebanon  (Joshua  xi.  17)  is  encom- 
passed by  mountains,  oue  of  which  is 
very  barren,  and  abounds  in  thorns, 
rocks,  and  Hints,  but  another  is  called 


a  terrestrial  paradise.  Baca  means 
"mulberry  trees,"  but  Bekah  means 
a  "plain."  Perowne  says  Bacah  is 
from  a  Hebrew  root  which  means 
"  weeping." 

"  Our  souices  uf  coiiimou  pleasure  dry  up  as  we 
jmuuoy  ou  tlirough  tlie  vale  of  Ba'cUa." — blr 
Wiiltir  Scutt :  The  Aidiqiuirii. 

Bacbuc.  The  Holy  Bottle,  aud  also 
the  priestess  of  the  Holy  Bottle,  the 
oracle  of  Lantern-laud  consulted  by 
Panui'ge  on  the  momentous  question 
whether  or  not  he  ought  to  marry.  Tlie 
Holy  Bottle  answered  with  a  click  like 
the  noise  made  by  a  glass  snapping. 
Bacbuc  told  Panurge  the  noise  meant 
tri)ic  (diiuk),  and  that  was  the  response, 
the  most  direct  and  positive  ever  given 
by  the  oracle.  I'anurge  might  interpret 
it  as  he  liked,  the  obscurity  would 
always  save  the  oracle. 

So  Pic  or  Gluck  (say  I)  or  ueitlier, 
Or  both,  for  aught  I  care,  or  either  ; 
More  uudecided  than  Bacbuc, 
Here's  heads  for  I'ic,  aud  tails  for  (iUick. 
H.  C.  B. 

Bacchanalia.  Festivals  iu  honour 
of  Bacchus,  distinguished  for  their  licen- 
tiousness and  debauchery.  Plato  says  he 
has  seeu  the  whole  population  of  Athens 
druuk  at  these  festivals. 

Bacchanalian.  Drunken,  rolUck- 
sonie,  devoted  or  pertaiuiug  to  Bacchus 

{q.c). 

Bacchant.  A  person  given  to  habits 
of  di-inkiug ;  so  called  from  the  "  bac- 
chauts,"  or  men  admitted  to  the  feasts  of 
Bacchus.     Bacchants  wore  fillets  of  ivy. 

Bacchante  ('2  syl.).  A  female  wine- 
bibber  ;  so  called  from  the  "bacchantes," 
or  female  priestesses  of  Bacchus.  They 
wore  fillets  of  ivy. 

Bacchis.  A  sacred  bull  which  changed 
its  colour  every  hour  of  the  day. 
[Efjiiptiati  mijtholoyij.') 

Bacchus  [(<■/«<'].  In  Eomaii  mytho- 
logy the  god  of  wine.  He  is  represented 
as  a  beautiful  youth  with  black  eyes, 
golden  locks,  flowiug  with  curls  about 
his  shoulders  aud  filleted  with  ivy.  Iu 
peace  his  robe  was  i^urple,  in  war  he 
was  covered  with  a  pautlier's  skin.  His 
chariot  was  drawn  by  iiauthers. 

The  famous  statue  of  Bacchus  in  the 
palace  of  Borghese  (3  syl.)  is  represented 
with  a  bunch  of  grapes  in  his  hand  and 
a  pauther  at  his  feet.  Pliny  tells  us 
that,  after  his  conquest  of  India,  Bacchus 
entered  Thebes  in  a  chariot  drawn  by 
elephants. 

V  The  Etruscan  Bacchus  was  called 
Eaar  or  Nenur ;  the  Umbriau  Beaar ;  the 


Baccoch 


82 


Back 


Assyrian  Insus ;  the  Greek  J)lon->/sHS  ; 
the  Galatian  JVi/sms  ;  the  Hebrew  Nizziz; 
a  Greek  form  was  lacchus  (from  lache, 
a  shout)  ;  the  Latui  Bacchns ;  other 
forms  of  the  word  are  tlie  Norse  Eix  ; 
the  ludiau  Ics  ;  the  Persian  I'cz;  the 
GauUsh  Hcs ;  the  German  Ilist ;  and 
the  Chinese  Jos. 
"  As  jolly  Bacchus,  god  of  iile:isiii'e, 

Cba.  med  the  wide  world  with  diiiikauddauccs, 

And  all  his  thousaud  airy  fancies, 

Alas  !  he  unite  forgot  the  while 

His  favourite  viues  in  Lesbos'  isle."    ParncU. 

Bacchus,  in  the  Lusiad,  is  the  evil 
demon  or  antagonist  of  Juijiter,  the  lord 
of  destiny.  As  Mars  is  the  guardian 
l)0wer  of  Cliristianity,  Bacchus  is  the 
guardian  power  of  Mohammedanism. 

liacchus  sprcDKj  frojii  the  thitjhof  Zeus. 
The  tale  is  that  Semele  asked  Zeus  to 
appear  before  her  iu  all  his  glorj',  but 
tlie  foolish  request  proved  her  death. 
Zeus  saved  the  child  which  was  prema- 
turely born  by  sewing  it  uj)  iu  his  thigh 
till  it  came  to  maturity.  The  Arabian 
tradition  is  that  the  infant  Bacchus  was 
nourished  during  infancy  in  a  cave  of 
Mount  Meros.  As  "Meros"  is  Greek 
for  a  thigh,  the  Greek  fable  is  readily 
explained. 

H'lial  lias  that  to  do  with  Bacchus  ? 
i.e.  what  has  that  to  do  with  the  matter 
in  hand?  When  Thespis  introduced 
recitations  in  tlie  vintage  songs,  the 
innovation  was  suffered  to  pass,  so  long 
as  the  subject  of  recitation  bore  on  the 
exploits  of  Bacchus  ;  but  when,  for 
variety  sake,  he  wandered  to  other 
subjects,  the  Greeks  pulled  him  up  with 
the  exclamation,  "  What  has  that  to  do 
with  Bacchus?"     (*6'  Hecuba,  Mou- 

TONS.) 

Bacchus  a  noijc  plus  (Vhoiiunes  quo 
Ncptnnc.  The  ale-house  wrecks  more 
men  than  the  ocean. 

A  jjriest  of  Bacchus.     A  toper. 

"The  ,i(dly  old  priests  of  Baecliusiu  the  parlour 
make  their  lihaiions  of  claret."— X  S.  Le  Fana: 
'The  Uuai-c  in  tha  Cliurchyard,  v.  113. 

A  sou  of  Bacchus.     A  toper. 

Baccoch.  The  travelling  crij^ple  of 
Ireland.  Generally,  a  talkative,  face- 
tious fellow,  i^rompt  at  repartee,  and 
not  unlike  the  ancient  jester. 

Bachelor.  A  man  who  has  not 
been  married.  Probably  from  haccalaris, 
"a  man  employed  on  a  grazing -farm  " 
(Low  Latin,  bacca,  for  racca,  a  cow). 
French,  l/achclicr,  hachclctfe  (a  damsel). 

A  Bachelor  of  Arts.  The  student  who 
has  passed  his  examination,  but  is  not 
yet  of  standing  to  be  a  master.  For- 
merly the  bachelor  was  the  candidate 
for   examination.      The    word    used   to 


be  spelt  bacltillcr ;  thus  iu  the  Bro- 
cccduigs  of  the  Frivi/  Council,  vol.  i. 
13.  72,  we  read: — "The  king  ordered 
that  the  bachillers  should  have  reason- 
able pay  for  their  trouble." 

Froissart  styles  Itichard  II.  le  jeune 
dauioiscl  liichart.  The  Italian  is  doii- 
zclla. 

Bachelor  of  Salamanca  ( Tht) .  Don 
Cherubim.  He  is  placed  in  different 
situations  of  life,  aud  is  made  to  asso- 
ciate with  all  classes  of  society.  {Le 
Haye :  The  Bachelor  of  !Salatnanca  (a 
novel).) 

Bachelor's  Buttons.  Several  flowers 
are  so  called,  liud  Bachelor's  Buttons, 
the  double  red  campion ;  yellow  Bach- 
elor's Buttons,  the  "  ujH'ight  crowfoot  "; 
white  Bachelor's  Buttons,  the  white 
ranunculus  and  white  campion. 

"The  siuiilitudo  these  flowers  have  to  the 
jaggi'd  cloath  liuttous  anciently  worue  .  .  .  gave 
occasion  .  .  .  to  call  them  Baclielour'sHuttons."— 
Gerald:  IlcrOal. 

Or  else  from  a  custom  still  sometimes 
observed  by  rustics  of  carrying  the 
flower  in  their  pockets  to  know  how 
they  stand  with  their  sweethearts.  If 
the  flower  dies,  it  is  a  bad  omen  ;  but  if 
it  does  not  fade,  they  may  hope  for  the 
best. 

To  iirar  hachelor^s  buttons.  To  remain 
a  bachelor.     {Sec  above.') 

Bachelor's  Fare.  Bread  aud  cheese 
and  kisses. 

Bachelor's  Porch.  The  north  door 
used  to  be  so  called.  The  meuservauts 
and  other  poor  men  used  to  sit  on 
benches  down  the  north  aisle,  and  the 
maidservants,  with  other  poor  women, 
on  the  south  side.  Even  when  married 
the  custom  was  not  discontinued.  After 
service  the  men  formed  one  line  and  the 
women  another,  down  whicli  the  clergy 
and  gentry  passed  amidst  salutations, 
and  the  two  lines  flled  off.  In  some 
country  churches  these  arrangements 
are  still  observed. 

Bachelor's  Wife  (.^ ).  A  hypothetical 
wile.  A  bachelor  has  only  an  imaginary 
wife. 

"Bachelors'  wives  and  old  maids'  children  lie 
well  taught."— iff!/ itJood;  I'romrhs. 

Back  {To).  To  support  with  money, 
influence,  or  encouragement:  as  to 
"  back  a  friend."  A  commercial  term 
meaning  to  endorse.  When  a  merchant 
backs  or  endorses  a  bill,  he  guarantees 
its  value. 

Falstaff  says  to  the  Prince  : — 
"You  care  not  who  sees  your  Lack.    Call  ycut 


Back  and  Edge 


83 


Back- stair 


that  backing  of  your  friends  ?  A  plague  upon  sucU 
backing  '."—Shakestieiire  :  1  Ilcury  IV.,  ii.  4. 

•'Englishmen  will  ligbt  now  as  well  as  ever 
tliey  did  ;  and  there  isaliii'le  power  to  l>ack  them." 
—  W.  Rubertsoii:  John  Briijlit,  chap.  xxxi.  p.  I'US. 

Back  and  Edge.  Eiitirelj',  heartily, 
tooth  aud  uail,  with  might  and  raaiu. 
The  reference  is  to  a  wedge  driveu  home 
to  sj)lit  wood. 

•'They  were  wcirking  back  and  edge  for  me."— 
lioldrcwuod :  Rubbery  aiidcr  Arms,  ch.  ii. 

To  back  and  fill.  A  mode  of  tacking, 
when  the  tide  i.s  with  the  vessel  and  the 
wind  against  it.  Metaphorically,  to  be 
irresolute. 

To  back  out.  To  draw  back  from  an 
engagement,  bargain,  etc.,  because  it 
does  not  seem  so  plausible  as  you  once 
thought  it.  Many  horses  are  unwilling 
to  go  out  of  a  stable  head  foremost,  and 
are  backed  out. 

"  Octavius  backs  cnit  ;  his  caution  and  reserve 
come  to  her  rescue."— 6'.  Clarke :  Sliakespeare. 

To  back  the  field.  To  bet  on  all  the 
horses  bar  one.  A  sporting  term  used 
in  betting. 

To  back  the  sails.  So  to  arrange  them 
that  the  ship's  way  may  be  checked. 

To  back  up.  To  uphold,  to  support. 
As  one  who  stands  at  your  back  to 
support  you. 

At  the  back  of.  Behind,  following 
close  after.  Figui'e  from  following  a 
leader. 

"  With  half  the  city  at  his  back." 

liyron:  Don  Juan. 

To  see  his  back  ;  to  see  the  back,  of  any- 
thing. To  get  rid  of  a  person  or  thing ; 
to  see  it  leave. 

Back  the  oars  or  back  water  is  to  row 
backwards,  that  the  boat  may  move  the 
reverse  of  its  ordinary  direction. 

Uu  tlie  back  of.  Immediately  after. 
Figure  from  soldiers  on  the  march. 

To  the  hack,  that  is,  to  the  backbone, 
entirely. 

To  orcak  the  hack  of  a  thing.  To 
surmount  the  hardest  part. 

His  back  is  up.  He  is  angry,  he 
shows  that  he  is  annoyed.  The  allusion 
is  to  a  cat,  which  sets  its  back  up  when 
attacked  by  a  dog  or  other  animal. 

To  get  one^s  back  up.  To  be  irritated 
{Sec  above). 

To  have  his  hack  at  the  wall.  To  act 
on  the  defensive  against  odds.  One 
beset  with  foes  tries  to  get  his  back 
agamst  a  wall  that  he  may  not  be 
attacked  by  foes  behind. 

"  He  planted  his  backagainst  a  wall.inaskilful 
iUtitude  offence,  ready  with  his  bright  glancing 
rapier  to  do  Ijattle  with  all  the  heavy  tierce  un- 
armed men,  some  six  or  seven  in  uumljer. "— J//s. 
Guskell:  The  Povr  Clare,  iii. 


To  set  one's  back  up.     {See  above.) 

■•That  word  set  my  back  up." 

Uaiue  IliulUles  Letter  (1710\ 

To  turn  one's  hack  on  another.  To 
leave,  forsake,  or  neglect  him.  To  leave 
one  by  going  away. 

■'At  length  we  .  .  .  turn  our  liacks  on  the 
outskirts  of  civilisation."— TrtrfraHt;  iloab.ii.  l!i. 

Behind  mg  lack.  When  I  was  not 
present.     When  my  back  was  tiu-ned. 

Laid  on  onc^s  back.  Laid  up  with 
chronic  ill-health  ;  helpless.  Figure  from 
persons  extremely  ill. 

Thrown  on  his  back.  Completely 
worsted.     A  figure  taken  from  wrestlers. 

Backbite  {To).  To  slander  behind 
one's  back. 

•■  The  only  thing  in  which  all  parties  agreed  was 
to  liackbite  the  manager."— ir.  Irviiiy:  Traceller, 
Buclctliuni,  p.  1'J3. 

Backbone  {The).    The  main  stay. 
"Sober  ....  practical  men  ....  cimstitiite 
the  moral  backiione  of  the  country."- U'.  Loiith: 
In  Darldat  Eivjland  U'art  i.  :;,  p.  17;. 

To  the  backbone.     Thoroughly,  as  true 

to  the  backbone. 

"A  union  man,  and  a  nationalist  to  the  back- 
bone."-r.  Eoo^ecclt :  T.  H.  Benton,  chap.  v.  p. 
li:j. 

Backgammon  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  hae 
oamen  (back  game) ;  so  called  because 
the  pieces  (in  certain  circumstances)  are 
taken  up  aud  obliged  to  go  back  to  enter 
at  the  table  again. 

Background.  Placed  in  the  back- 
around,  i.e.  made  of  no  consequence. 
Pictures  have  three  disttmces,  called 
grounds  :  the  foreground,  where  the 
artist  is  supposed  to  be  ;  the  middle 
ground,  where  the  most  salient  jxtrt  of 
the  picture  is  placed ;  and  the  back- 
gromid  or  distance,  beyond  which  the 
eye  cannot  penetrate. 

Back-hander.  A  l)low  on  the  face 
with  the  back  of  the  hand.  Also  one 
who  takes  back  the  decanter  in  order  to 
hand  himself  another  glass  before  the 
decanter  is  passed  on. 

'"Ill  take  a  back-hander,  as  Clive  dou't  seem  to 
drink." — Tliackeray  ;  Tlie  Xeicconies. 

Back-speer  {To).  To  cross-examine. 
(Scotch.) 

"He  has  the  wit  to  lay  the  scene  in  snch  a 
remote  .  .  .  country  that  nobody  should  In; 
able  to  back-speer  him."  —  Sir  W.  iicutt :  The 
Betrothed  (Introduction ). 

Back-stair  Influence.  Fiivate  or 
unrecognised  intluence.  It  was  cus- 
tomary to  build  roj'al  palaces  with  a 
staircase  for  state  visitors,  and  another 
for  those  who  sought  the  sovereign  upon 
private  matters.  If  any  one  wanted  a 
private  interview  with  royalty,  it  was 
highly    desirable    to    conciliate    tltose 


B  ack^war  dation 


84 


Badaud 


appointed  to  guard  the  back  stairs,  as 
they  could  admit  or  exclude  a  visitor. 

"  Once,  we  confess,  beneatli  tlie  patriot's  cloak, 
From  the  clacked  bag  the  tli-oia'iUo  guiue;is 

tjroke, 
And,  jinglius  down  the  hack  stairs,  told  the 

crew 
'  Old  Cato  is  as  Rreat  a  rogue  as  you.' " 

J'opc  :  Jipistle  to  Lord  Datliurst,  35-8. 

Backwardation  (Stocl-hrokcr^^  term). 
The  sum  paid  by  a  speculator  on  a  "bear 
account  "  {i.e.  a  sjieculation  on  a  fall  in 
the  price  of  certain  stock),  in  order 
to  i^ostpoue  the  completion  of  the 
transaction  till  the  next  settling  day. 
{ISce  Contango.) 

Backward  Blessing  {Muttering  a). 
Muttering  a  curse.  To  say  the  Lord's 
Prayer  backwards  was  to  invoke  the 
devil. 

Backwater.  (1)  Water  at  the 
lower  end  of  a  niillrace  to  check  the 
speed  of  the  wheel.  (2)  A  current  of 
water  from  the  iiiJaiid,  which  clears  off 
the  deposit  of  sand  and  silt  left  by  the 
action  of  the  sea  ;  as  the  Backwater  of 
Weymouth. 

Bacon.  The  Bacon  of  Theology .  Bishop 
Butler,  author  of  the  Analogy.  (1692- 
1752.) 

Bacon's  brazen  head.     {See  Brazen.) 

To  baste  your  bacon.  To  strike  or 
scourge  one.  The  Saxons  were  called 
"  hogs  "  by  their  Norman  lords.  Henry 
VIII.  spoke  of  the  common  people  as 
the  "swinish  multitude";  and  Falstalf 
says  to  the  travellers  at  Gadshill,  "  On, 
bacons,  on!"  (1  Ilcnrg  IV.,  ii.  2). 
Bacon  is  the  outside  portion  of  the  sides 
of  pork,  and  may  be  considered  gener- 
ally as  the  part  which  would  receive  a 
blow. 

2o  save  one's  bacon.  To  save  oneself 
from  injury. 

"  But  as  he  rose  to  save  his  bacon. 
By  hat  and  wig  he  was  forsaken." 

Coo)iihe:  l)i:  Syntax,  canto  vi.  line  ;;-in. 

There  seems  to  be  another  sense  in 
which  the  term  is  used — viz.  to  escajie 
loss  ;  and  in  this  sense  the  allusion  is  to 
the  care  taken  by  our  forefathers  to  save 
from  tlie  numerous  dogs  that  fi'equented 
their  houses  the  bacon  which  was  laid  up 
for  winter  store,  the  loss  of  which  would 
have  been  a  very  serious  calamity. 

A  cli/iir-l)(ic<Ji/.  A  rustic.  Till  com- 
])aratively  modern  times  the  oidy  meat 
which  rustics  had  to  eat  was  bacon.  I 
myself  know  several  farm  labourers  who 
never  taste  any  meat  but  bacon,  except 
on  club  and  feast  days. 

lie  mag  fetch  a  flitch  (f  bacon  from 
T)ainnotv,  i.e.  he  is  so  amiable  and  good- 
tempered  he  will  never  qu.irrcl  with  his 


wife.  The  allusion  is  to  a  custom  founded 
by  Juga,  a  noble  lady,  in  1111,  and 
restored  by  Robert  de  Fitz  waiter  in 
1244 ;  which  was,  that  "  any  person 
from  any  part  of  England  going  to 
Dunmow,  in  Essex,  and  humbly  kneel- 
ing on  two  stones  at  the  church  door, 
may  claim  a  gammon  of  bacon,  if  he 
can  swear  that  for  twelve  months  and  a 
day  he  has  never  had  a  household  brawl 
QX  wished  himself  unmarried." 

Baconian  Philosophy.  A  system 
of  philosophy  based  on  principles  laid 
down  by  Francis  Bacon,  Lord  Ver'ulam, 
in  the  2nd  book  of  his  Xonim  Or'ga- 
nitm.  It  is  also  called  inductive  j)hilo 
sojjhy. 

Baconian  Theory.  The  theory  that 
Lord  Bacon  wrote  the  plays  attributed 
to  Shakespeare. 

Bac'trian  Sage.  Zoroaster,  a  native 
of  Bactria  (Balkh),  about  500  years 
before  the  birth  of  Christ. 

Bad.  Charles  le  manrais.  Charles  II. 
of  Navarre  (1332-1387). 

He  is  gone  to  the  bad.  Has  become  a 
ruined  man,  or  a  depraved  character. 
He  has  gone  amongst  bad  peoijle,  in  bad 
ways,  or  to  bad  circumstances. 

To  the  bad.  On  the  wrong  side  of  the 
accoimt ;  in  arrears. 

Bad  Blood.  Viudictiveness,  ill- 
feeling. 

"  If  there  is  any  I'ad  blood  in  the  fellow  ho  will 
be  sure  to  show  it."— Erothcr  Joiiatliaii. 

To  malce  bad  blood,  to  stir  up  bad  blood. 
To  create  or  renew  ill-feeling  and  a  vin- 
dictive spirit. 

Bad  Books.  You  are  in  mg  bad 
boolcK.  Under  disgrace.  Also  1)1  my 
black  books.     {Sec  under  Black  Bodes.) 

Bad  Debts.  Debts  not  likelj^  to  be 
paid. 

Bad  Form,  not  comme  il  fant.  Not 
in  good  taste. 

Bad  Lot  {A).  A  person  of  bad  moral 
character,  or  one  commercially  unsound. 
Also  a  commercial  x^i'oject  or  stock  of 
worthless  value.  The  allusion  is  to 
auctioneering  slang,  meaning  a  lot  which 
no  one  will  bid  for.  So  an  inefficient 
soldier  is  called  one  of  the  Queen's  bad 
bargains. 

Bad  Shot  {A).  A  wrong  guess.  A 
sporting  phrase  :  a  bad  shot  is  one  wliich 
does  not  bring  down  the  bird  shot  at, 
one  that  misses  the  mark. 

Badaud.  A  booby.  C'est  nn  franc 
badaud,    he   is    a    regular    booby.      Le 


Badge 


Bag 


badaud  de  Paris,  a  French  cockuey. 
From  the  Itahau,  badare,  to  gaze  in  the 
air,  to  stare  about  oue. 

Badge  of  Poverty.  In  former 
times  tliose  who  received  parish  relief 
had  to  wear  a  badye.  It  was  the  letter 
P,  with  the  initial  of  the  parish  to  which 
they  belonged,  in  red  or  blue  cloth,  on 
the  shoulder  of  the  right  sleeve.  {See 
Dyvour.) 

Badge-men.  Alms-house  men;  so 
called  because  they  wear  some  special 
dress,  or  other  badge,  to  indicate  that 
they  belong  to  a  particular  foundation. 

"  Ho  quits  tbe  gay  and  rich,  the  youn,!,'  and  free, 
Aniiin','  the  badge-men  with  a  liadge  to  lie." 

Crubbe:  Bminigh. 

Badger  {A).  A  licensed  huckster, 
who  was  obliged  to  wear  a  badge. 
By  5  Eliz.,  c.  12,  it  was  enacted  that 
"  Badgers  were  to  be  licensed  annually, 
under  a  penalty  of  £5." 

"Under  Dec.  17,  l.lio,  we  read  of  'Certain 
perscms  npou  Humlier  side  who  .  .  .  hy  great 
quantities  of  corn,  two  of  whom  were  authorised 
liadgers.'  "State  Papers  (Domestic  Scries). 

Badger  (To).  To  tease  or  annoy  by 
superior  numbers.  In  allusion  to  the 
ancient  custom  of  badger-baiting.  A 
badger  was  kennelled  in  a  tub,  where 
dogs  were  set  upon  him  to  worry  him 
out.  When  dragged  from  his  tub  tlie 
poor  beast  was  allowed  to  retire  to  it  till 
he  recovered  from  the  attack.  This 
process  was  repeated  several  times. 

Badger.  It  is  a  vulgar  error  that  the 
legs  of  a  badger  are  shorter  on  oue  side 
than  on  the  other. 

"  I  think  that  Titns  Gates  was  as  uneven  as  a 
badger."— itntZ  ihtcaulay. 

Drawing  a  badger  is  drawing  him  out 
of  his  tub  by  means  of  dogs. 

Badinage.  Plaj'ful  raillery,  banter 
(French),  from  the  verb  badnicr,  to  joke 
or  jest.  The  noun  bad'uie  means  a 
switch,  and  in  France  they  catch  wild 
ducks  by  covering  a  boat  with  switches, 
in  which  the  ducks  seek  j)rotection.  A 
person  quizzed  is  like  these  wild  ducks. 

Badinguet.  A  nickname  given  to 
Napoleon  III.  It  was  the  name  of  the 
workman  whose  clothes  he  wore  when  he 
contrived  to  escape  from  the  fort  of 
Ham,  in  1846. 

"  If  Badinguet  and  Bismarck  have  a  row  to- 
gether let  them  settle  it;  Ijetween  them  with  theii- 
Usts,  instead  of  troubling  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  men  who  .  .  .  have  uo  wish  to  fight."— Zote  : 
The  Vomifall,  chap.  ii.  (1892). 

Badingueux.  The  party  of  the 
Emperor  Napoleon  III.  Tlie  party  of 
the  Empress  were  called  "  Moutijoyeux  " 
and  "  Montijocrisses,"  from  Montijo  in 


Spain.     She  was  the  second  daughter  of 
the  Count  of  Montijo. 

Badminton  is  properly  a  ' '  copus 
cup,"  made  of  claret  spiced  and  sweet- 
ened, a  favourite  with  the  Duke  of 
Beaufort  of  Badminton.  As  the  duke 
used  to  be  a  great  patron  of  the  prize 
ring,  Badminton  was  iised  as  equivalent 
to  claret  as  the  synonym  of  blood. 

Also  a  game  similar  to  lawn  tennis, 
only  played  with  shuttlecocks  instead  of 
balls. 

Baffle.  To  erase  the  cognisance  of 
a  recretint  knight.  To  degrade  a  kniglit 
from  his  rank.  To  be  knocked  about  by 
the  winds. 

"  I  am  disgraced,  impeached,  and  baffled  here." 
Shakespeare :  Richard  If.,  act  i.  1. 

Bag.  Jjcig  a»d  Baggage,  as  "Get 
away  with  you,  bag  and  baggage,"  i.e. 
get  away,  and  carry  with  you  all  your 
belongings.  The  bag  or  sack  is  the 
pouch  in  which  a  soldier  packs  his  few 
articles  when  he  moves  from  jilace  to 
place.  Baggage  is  a  contemptuous  term 
for  a  woman,  either  because  soldiers 
send  their  wives  in  the  baggage  wagons, 
or  from  the  Italian  bagascia  (a  harlot), 
French  bagasse,  Spanish  bagazo,  Persian, 
baga. 

Bag  and  baggage  policy.  In  1876  Mr. 
Gladstone,  speaking  on  the  Eastern 
question,  said,  "Let  the  Turks  now 
carry  away  their  abuses  in  the  only 
possible  manner,  namely,  by  carrying 
away  themselves.  .  .  .  One  and  all,  bag 
and  baggage,  shall,  I  hope,  clear  out 
from  the  province  they  have  desolated 
and  profaned."  This  was  termed  by 
the  Conservatives  tlie  bag  and  baggage 
policy. 

A  bag  of  bones.  Very  emaciated ; 
generally  "  A  mere  bag  of  bones." 

A  hag  of  game.  A  large  battue. 
From  the  custom  of  carrying  game 
home  in  "  bags." 

A  hag  of  triclis  or  A  ivhole  bag  of 
tricks.  Nmnerous  expedients.  In  al- 
lusion to  the  fable  of  the  Fo.v  and  the 
Cat.  The  fox  was  commiserating  the 
cat  because  she  had  only  one  shift  in  the 
case  of  danger,  while  he  had  a  thousand 
tricks  to  evade  it.  Being  set  upon  by 
a  pack  of  hounds,  the  fox  was  soon 
caught,  while  puss  ran  up  a  tree  and 
was  quite  secure. 

A  good  bag.  A  large  catch  of  game, 
fish,  or  other  animals  sought  after  by 
si:)ortsmen. 

Got  the  bug.  Got  his  dismissal,  (fiee 
Sack.) 

The    bottom    of  the    bag.      The    last 


Bag 


86 


Baillif 


expedient,  ha^'ing  emptied  every  other 
one  out  of  liis  bag. 

To  cuiptji  the  hay.  To  tell  the  whole 
matter  and  conceal  nothing.  (French, 
vider  le  sac,  to  expose  all  to  view.) 

To  let  the  cat  out  of  the  bag.  {See 
under  Cat.) 

Bag  {To).  To  steal,  or  slip  into  one's 
bag,  as  a  jioacher  or  pilferer  who  slyly 
slips  into  his  bag  what  he  has  con- 
trived to  imrloin. 

Bags.  A  slang  word  for  trousers, 
which  are  the  bags  of  the  body.  When 
the  pattern  was  very  staring  and  ' '  loud," 
they  once  were  called  howli/i{/-bae/s. 

Bag-man  (^4).  A  commercial  tra- 
veller, who  carries  a  bag  with  specimens 
to  show  to  those  whose  custom  he 
solicits.  In  former  times  commercial 
travellers  used  to  ride  a  horse  with 
saddle-bags  sometimes  so  large  as  almost 
to  conceal  the  rider. 

Bag  o'  Nails.  Some  hundreds  of 
years  ago  there  stood  in  the  Tylturn 
Koad,  Oxford  Street,  a  public-house 
called  2'he  llacehaiials :  the  sign  was 
Pan  and  the  Satyrs.  The  jolly  god, 
with  his  cloven  lioof  and  his  horns,  was 
called  "  The  devil ;  "  and  the  word  Bac- 
chanals soon  got  corrupted  into  ''  Bag  o' 
Nails."  The  JJeeil  and  the  Bag  o'  JSaih 
is  a  sign  not  uncommon  even  now  in 
the  midland  counties. 

Baga  de  Secretis.  Records  in  the 
Record  Oflice  of  trials  for  high  treason 
and  other  State  offences  from  the  reign  of 
Edward  IV.  to  the  close  of  the  reign  of 
George  III.  These  records  contain  the 
proceedings  in  the  trials  of  Anne  Bolepi, 
Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  Guy  Fawkes,  the 
regicides,  and  of  the  risings  of  ITlo  and 
17-15.     (Baga  =  Bag.) 

Bagatelle  {A) .  A  trifle  ;  a  thing  of 
no  consideration.  "Oh!  nothing.  A 
mere  bagatelle."  In  French,  " //  dc- 
petise  font  son  argent  en  hugatellcs  " 
means,  he  squanders  his  money  on  trash. 
" //  tie  sUnnase  qnW  des  bagatelles,^''  he 
finds  no  pleasure  except  in  frivolities. 
Bagatelle !  as  an  exclamation,  means 
Nonsense  !  as  "J'uas  dites  qiCU  me  j'eri 
in>  2}>'oces.     Bagatelle  !^^  (fiddlesticks  I) 

"  He  cnnsiilered  liis  wife  a  bagatelle,  to  be  sliut 
up  at  iilmisure "  [i.e.  a  tny  to  be  put  away  at 
pleasui''].— V7(e  Depraved  Husband. 

Baguette  d'Armide  (La).  The 
sorcerer's  wand.  Armida  is  a  sorceress 
in  Tasso's  Jer/tsalein.  Delivered.  Ba- 
guette is  a  rod  or  wand. 

Bahagnla,  Bohemia ;  Bahaignons, 
Bohemians.     (1330.) 


Bahr  Geist  (A).  A  banshee  or  grey- 
spectre. 

"Know  tben  (said  Eveline)  it  [tbe  Baliv  Geist] 
is  a  spectre,  usually  the  image  of  tbe  departed 
person,  who,  either  for  wrong  suffered,  sustained 
durini;  life,  or  throui-'li  tveiisure  hiihleu,  .  .  . 
haunts  the  spot  from  tiioe  to  tinu>,  ber.imc>  fami- 
liar to  those  wlio  dwell  there,  and  takes  an 
interest  in  their  fate."— .S'lr  H'.  Scntt:  The  Be- 
trothed, chap.  l.">. 

Bail  (French,  hailler).    To  deliver  up. 

Coiniiioii  h'ld  or  hail  below.  A  bail 
given  to  the  sheriff,  after  arresting  a 
person,  to  guarantee  that  the  defendant 
will  api^ear  in  cotirt  at  any  day  and  time 
the  court  demands. 

Special  bail  or  hail  ahore,  consists  of 
persons  who  undertake  to  satisfy  all 
claims  made  on  the  defendant,  and  to 
guarantee  his  rendering  himself  up  to 
justice  when  required. 

Bail.     (.SV'c  Leo-Bail.  ) 

To  bail  up.  To  disarm  before  rol)l)ing, 
to  force  to  throw  up  the  arms.  (Austra- 
lian.) 

Bailey.  The  space  enclosed  within 
the  external  walls  of  a  castle,  not 
including  the  "  Keep."  The  entrance 
was  over  a  drawbridge,  and  through  the 
embattled  gate  (Middle-age  Latin  haliain 
or  ballium,  a  coiTujition  of  vallum,  a 
rampart) . 

When  there  were  two  courts  to  a 
castle,  they  were  distinguished  as  the 
outer  and  inner  bailey  (rampart).  Sub- 
sequently the  word  included  the  court 
and  all  its  buildings ;  and  when  the 
court  was  abolished,  the  term  was 
att-ached  to  the  castle,  as  the  Old  Bailey 
(London)  and  the  Bailey  (Oxford). 

Bailiff.  At  Constantinople,  the  per- 
son who  had  charge  of  the  imj^erial 
children  used  to  be  called  the  hajaln.s, 
from  haios,  a  child.  The  word  was  sub- 
sequently attached  to  the  Venetian  con> 
sul  at  Constantinoijle,  and  the  Venetiaii 
ambassador  was  called  the  balio,  a  word 
afterwards  extended  to  any  superinten- 
dent or  magistrate.  In  France  the  bailli 
was  a  superintendent  of  the  royal  do- 
mains and  commander  of  the  troops.  In 
time,  any  superintendent  of  even  a 
private  estate  was  so  called,  whence  our 
farmer'' s  bailiff.  The  sheriff  is  the  king's 
bailiff — a  title  now  applied  almost  ex- 
clusively to  his  deinities  or  officers.     {See 

BUMBAILIFF. ) 

Bailleur.  Un  bon  bailleur  en  fait 
bdiller  de/i.r  (French).  Yawning  is  catch- 
ing. 

Baillif  (Herrg).  Mine  host  in 
Chaucer's  Canterhary  Tales.  When  the 
poet  began  the  second  "Fit"  of  the 


Bain  Marie 


87 


Balaam 


Itime  of  Sir  Thopas,  Herry  Baillif 
interrupts  him  with  unmitigated  con- 
tempt : — 

" '  No  iiior  of  this,  for  Goddes  dignitie  ! ' 
Qucid  (lur  host,  'for  thou  iiiakest  me 
So  wery  .  .  .  that 

:Miiie  t'l'ivs  akeu  for  thy  nasty  speeche.'  " 
Verse  1S327. 

Bain  Marie.  A  saucepan  containing 
hot  water  into  which  a  smaller  sauce- 
pan is  jiluuged,  either  to  keep  it  hot,  or 
that  it  may  boil  without  burning.  A 
glue  pot  is  a  good  example.  Mons. 
Bouillet  says,  '■'  Ainsi  appele  dn  nom  de 
rinroifciir''''  (Balneum  Mariae).  But 
derivations  from  proper  names  require 
autheutication. 

Bairam  (3  syl.).  The  name  given  to 
two  movable  Moslem  feasts.  The  first, 
which  begins  on  the  first  day  of  the 
moon  which  follows  that  of  Kamadaii, 
and  lasts  three  days,  is  a  kind  of  Paschal 
feast.  The  second,  seventy  days  later, 
lasts  four  days,  and  is  not  uidike  the 
Jewish  Feast  of  Tabernacles. 

V  As  the  Mohammedan  year  is  a  lunar 
one,  in  .33  years  these  feasts  will  have 
occurred  at  all  the  four  seasons. 

Baisser.  //  seinhle  qiCil  n^ ij  a  qu^l  sc 
baisscr  ct  en  prendre  (French).  One 
would  think  he  has  only  to  pick  and  choose. 
Said  of  a  jierson  who  fancies  that  fortune 
will  fall  into  his  lap,  without  his  stir- 
ring. Literally,  "  to  stoop  down  and 
pick  up  what  he  wants." 

Bait.  Food  to  entice  or  allure,  as 
bait  for  fish.  Bait  for  travellers  is  a 
"feed"  by  way  of  refreshment  taken 
en  pdssdiit.  (Anglo-Saxon,  hcctun,  to 
bait  or  feed.) 

Bajaderes.  Indian  dancing  girls. 
A  corruption  of  the  Portuguese  baila- 
dcir((,  whence  haWidcra,  hajadire. 

Bajulus.  A  pedagogue.  A  Grand 
Bajiilus,  a  "big"  j)edagogue.  lu  the 
Greek  court,  the  preceptor  of  the  Em- 
peror was  called  the  Grand  Bajulus. 
Originally  "porter."     {Cf.  Bailiff.) 

Bajura.     Mahomet's  standard. 

Baked.  Half-balced.  Imbecile,  of 
weak  mind.  The  metaphor  from  half- 
baked  food. 

Baked  Meat  means  meat-pie.  "  The 
funeral  liaked  meats  did  coldly  furnish 
forth  the  marriage  table  "  {Hamlet) ;  i.e. 
the  hot  meat-  pies  (venison  pasties)  served 
at  the  funeral  and  not  eaten,  were  served 
cold  at  the  marriage  banquet. 

Baker  ( The).  Louis  '^Xl.  was  called 
"the    Baker,"   the    queen    was    called 


"  the  baker's  wife  "  (or  La  lioiclaiif/cre), 
and  the  dauphin  the  "  shop  boy  ;  "  be- 
cause a  heavy  trade  in  com  was  carried 
on  at  Versailles,  and  consequently  very 
little  was  brought  to  Paris. 

'■The  return  of  the  liaker,  his  wife,  and  tlie 
shop-hoy  to  Paris  [after  the  kint,'  was  hroiiu'lit 
from  Versailles]  had  not  had  the  expected  etfeet. 
Flour  and  hread  were  >till  scarce."— .I.  Duiiidg: 
The  Coiuitess  de  Chdruii,  chap.  ix. 

Baker's  Dozen.  Thirteen  for  twelve. 
When  a  heavy  penalty  was  inflicted  for 
short  weight,  bakers  used  to  give  a 
surplus  number  of  loaves,  called  the 
inbread,  to  avoid  all  risk  of  incurring 
the  fine.  The  13th  was  the  "vantage 
loaf." 

Mr.  Riley  (Liber  Albus)  tells  us  that 
the  13th  loaf  was  "the  extent  of  the 
profit  allowed  to  retail  dealers,"  and 
therefore  the  reoitaf/e  loaf  means,  the 
loaf  allowed  for  jirofit. 

I'o  give  one  a  baker'' s  dozen,  in  slang 
pliraseology,  is  to  give  him  a  sound 
drubbing — i.e.  all  he  deserves  and  one 
stroke  more. 

Baker's  Knee  (^i).  A  knop-knee, 
or  knee  bent  inwards,  from  carrying  the 
heavy  bread-ba.sket  on  the  right  arm. 

Bakshish.  A  Persian  word  for  a 
gratuity.  These  gifts  are  insolently  de- 
manded by  all  sorts  of  officials  in  Tm-kej^, 
Egypt,  and  Asia  Minor,  more  as  a  claim 
than  a  gratuity. 

Bal.  Bonner lebal a  qt(elqu''Hn  (French). 
To  make  one  dance  for  it ;  to  abuse  one. 
In  several  games  played  with  a  ball,  the 
person  who  catches  the  ball  or  to  whom 
the  ball  is  given,  is  put  to  an  immense 
amount  of  labom-.  Thus,  in  Hurling, 
the  person  who  holds  the  ball  has  one  of 
the  labours  of  Hercules  to  pass  through. 
His  opponent  tries  to  lay  hold  of  him, 
and  the  hurler  makes  his  way  over  hills, 
dales,  hedges,  and  ditches,  through 
bushes,  briars,  mire,  plashes,  and  even 
rivers.  Sometimes  twenty  or  thirtj^  per- 
sons lie  tugging  together  in  the  water, 
scrambling  and  scratching  for  the  ball. 
{See  Strutt,  Sports  and  Fnstimes,  section 
xii.)     (jfe- Ball.) 

Balaam.  The  Earl  of  Huntingdon, 
one  of  the  rebels  in  Monmouth's  army. 

"  .\iid,  therefore,  in  the  name  of  dulness,  he 
The  well-hun!.'  Balaam." 

Drydcii :  Absalom  imd  AcUitopliel,  1573-4. 

Balaam.  A  "  citizen  of  sober  fajne," 
who  lived  hard  by  the  Monument  of 
London;  "he  was  a  plain,  good  man; 
religious,  punctual,  and  frugal,"  his 
week-day  meal  being  only  "  one  solid 
dish."      He  grew  rich;    got  knighted; 


Balaam 


88 


Balder 


seldom  went  to  church  ;  hecame  a  cour- 
tier ;  "took  a  bribe  from  France ;  "  was 
hanged  for  treason,  and  all  his  goods 
were  confiscated  to  the  State.  {Sie 
Diamond  Pitt.)  It  was  Thomas  Pitt, 
grandfather  of  the  Earl  of  Chathain, 
who  suggested  to  Pope  this  sketch. 
{I'upe  :  Mural  Essays,  Ep.  iii.) 

Balaam.  Matter  kept  in  type  for  fill- 
ing up  odd  spaces  in  periodicals.  These 
are  generally  refuse  bits — the  words  of 
au  oaf,  who  talks  like  "Balaam's  ass." 
(Numb.  xxii.  3(i.)     (American.) 

Balaam  Basket  or  Box  {A).  An 
ass's  pannier.  In  printer's  slang  of 
America,  it  is  tlie  place  where  rejected 
articles  are  deposited.     {Sec  Balaam.) 

Balafre,  Le  [the  f/asJied].  Henri,  sou 
of  Fram;ois,  second  Duke  of  Guise.  In 
the  Battle  of  Dormans  he  received  a 
sword-cut  which  left  a  frightful  scar  on 
his  face  (1550-1588).  So  Ludovic  Lesly, 
an  old  archer  of  the  Scottish  Guards, 
is  called,  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  Qaeiitin 
Daricard. 

Balai.  Doinier  trois  tours  de  halai 
par  la  elieitiUice  (French).  To  be  a  witch. 
Literally,  to  run  your  brush  three  times 
ujj  tlie  chimney.  According  to  an 
ancient  sujjerstition,  all  witches  had  to 
liass  their  brooms  on  wliich  they  rode 
three  times  up  the  chimney  between  one 
Sabbath  and  the  following. 

Balak,  in  the  second  part  of  Ahsa- 
loiii  and  Achitaphel,  a  satire  by  Drydeu 
and  Tate,  is  meant  for  Dr.  Burnet, 
author  of  Bariiefs  Oa-n  Time. 

Balam  the  ox,  and  the  fieh  Nun,  are 
the  food  of  Maliomet's  paradise ;  the 
mere  lobes  of  the  livers  of  these  animals 
will  suffice  for  70,000  saints.   {Al  Koran.) 

Balan.  Bravest  and  strongest  of  the 
giant  race.  Vasco  de  Lobeira,  in  Aiiiarlis 
of  Gaal.  Also,  Emir  of  the  Saracens, 
and  father  of  Ferumbras  or  Fierabras 
{q.r.). 

Balance  {Tlie).  "Libra,"  the  7th 
sign  of  the  zodiac,  which  contains  the 
autumnal  equinox.  According  to  fable 
it  is  Astrtea,  who,  in  the  iron  age,  re- 
turned from  earth  to  heaven.  Virgil,  to 
praise  the  equity  of  Augustus,  promises 
him  a  future  residence  in  this  sign. 

V  According  to  Persian  mytliology, 
at  the  last  day  there  will  be  a  huge 
balance  big  as  the  vault  of  heaven. 
The  two  scale  pans  will  be  called  that 
of  light  and  that  of  darkness.  In  the 
former  all  good  will  be  placed,  in  the 
latter  all  evil.     And  each  individual  will 


receive  an  award  according  to  the  judg- 
ment of  the  balance. 

Balance.  He  has  a  (jood  balance  at 
his  bai(kers.  His  credit  side  shows  a 
large  balance  in  his  favour. 

Balance  of  power.  The  States  of 
Euro2Je  being  so  balanced  that  no  one 
nation  shall  have  such  a  i^reponderance 
as  to  endanger  the  independence  of 
another. 

Balance  of  trade.  The  money-value 
difference  between  the  exports  and  im- 
ports of  a  nation. 

To  balance  an  account.  To  add  up  the 
debit  and  credit  sides,  and  subtract  the 
less  of  the  two  from  the  greater.  The 
remainder  is  called  the  balance. 

To  strike  a  balance.  To  calculate  the 
exact  difference,  if  any,  between  the 
debit  and  credit  side  of  au  account. 

Balayer.  Chacun  doit  balaijer  decant 
sa  porte  (French),  "  Let  everyone  correct 
his  own  faults."  The  allusion  is  to  a 
custom,  nearly  obsolete  in  large  ''owns, 
but  common  still  in  Loudon  and  in 
villages,  for  each  housewife  to  sweej) 
and  keej)  clean  the  pavement  before  her 
own  dwelling. 

Balclutha  {The  tower  of),  in  Ossian, 
is  Dun-dee,  where  Dun  means  a  tower. 
Those  circular  buildings  so  common  in 
the  Orkney  aud  Shetland  Islands,  the 
Hebrides,  and  all  tlie  north  of  Scotland, 
are  duns.  Dee  is  a  corruption  of  'Taij, 
the  river  on  which  the  city  is  built ;  in 
Latin,  Tao-dunum. 

Bald.  Charles  le  Chaave.  Charles  I., 
son  of  Louis  le  Dibonnairc  (823,  840- 
877). 

Baldachin.  The  dais  or  cauojiy 
under  wliich,  in  Roman  Catholic  pro- 
cessions, tlie  Holy  Sacrament  is  carried 
(Italian,  baldacchino,  so-called  from 
Baldacco  (Italian  for  Bagdad),  where 
the  cloth  was  made).  Also  the  canopy 
above  an  altar. 

Baldassa're.  Chief  of  the  monastery 
of  St.  Jacopo  di  Compostella.  {Doni- 
zefti''s  opera  La  Favorita.) 

Balder,  the  god  of  peace,  second  sou 
of  Odin  and  Frigga.  He  was  killed  by 
the  blind  war-god  Hoder,  at  the  instiga- 
tion of  Loki,  but  restored  to  life  at  the 
general  request  of  the  gods.  {Scan- 
dinar  ian  nii/tholoqi/.) 

N.B.— Sydney' Dobell  {born  1824)  has 
a  poem  entitled  Balder,  published  in 
1854. 

B:il(ler  is  the  sun  (ir  ilaylijilit  ■wbicli  is  killed  liy 
tlie  iiliiid-j-'udat  the  instigation  (if  Ldki  cii-  dark- 
ness, l>ut  is  restored  to  life  the  ne.\t  day. 


Balderdash 


89 


Balls 


B(ilder''s  abode  was  Broadbliuk  {rast 
S2)lctidoH  r) . 

Balderdash.  Eibalclry,  jargon. 
(Danish  balder,  tattle,  clatter.) 

Baldwin.  The  youngest  and  come- 
liest  of  Charlemagne's  paladins  ;  and  the 
nejjhew  of  Sir  Roland. 

Baldu-in  (in  Jerusalem  Delivered). 
The  restless  and  ambitious  Duke  of  Bo- 
logna, leader  of  1,200  horse  in  the  allied 
Christian  army.  He  was  Godfrey's  bro- 
ther ;  not  so  tall,  but  very  like  him. 

Baldubi,  the  Ass  (in  the  tale  of  liei/- 
nard  the  Fox).  In  the  third  part  of  the 
Beast-epic  he  is  called  "  Dr.  Baldwin." 
(Old  German,  bold  friend.) 

Bale.  When  bale  is  hiyhesi,  boot  is 
nii/hest.  When  things  have  come  to  the 
worst  they  must  needs  mend. 

Balearica  Tormenta.  Here  tor- 
inenta  means  instruments  for  throwing 
stones.  Cffisar  {Gallic  War,  iv.  25)  says: 
'■^  Fundis,  torrncntis,  sagittis  hastes  pro- 
pellere.'' '  The  inhabitants  of  the  Balearic 
Islands  were  noted  slingers,  and  indeed 
owe  their  name  to  this  skill.  (Greek, 
hallo,  to  cast  or  hurl.)  Pronounce  Bal- 
e-ari-ca. 

Balfour  of  Burley.  Leader  of  the 
Covenanters  in  Scott's  Old  Mortality,  a 
novel  (181C). 

Balios.     (.S'tY' Horse.) 

Balisar'da  or  Balisardo.  Roge'ro's 
sword,  made  by  a  sorceress,  and  caf>able 
of  cutting  through  enchanted  substances. 

"  Witli  Balisarda's  slightest  IiIdw 
Nor  lielni,  nor  sliir Id.  nor  cuirass  conlil  avail, 
-Nor  stron-'ly-temiieied  idate.  nor  twisted  mail." 
Ariosh)     Uil.indu  Farioso,]nH)k  .x.Kiii. 

Balistra'ria.  NaiTOW  apertures  in 
the  form  of  a  cross  in  the  walls  of  an- 
cient castles,  through  which  cross-bow- 
men discharged  their  arrows. 

Baliverso  (in  Orlando  Fa rioso).  The 
basest  knight  in  the  Saracen  anny. 

Balk  means  the  high  ridge  between 
furrows  (Anglo-Saxon  balea,  a  beam,  a 
ridge )  ;  hence  a  rising  ground. 

A  balk  of  timber  is  a  beam  running 
across  the  ceiling,  etc. ,  like  a  ridge.  As 
the  balk  is  the  part  not  cut  by  the 
plough,  therefore  "to  balk  "  means  to 
leave  imtouched,  or  to  disappoint. 

To  make  a  balk.  To  miss  a  part  of 
the  field  in  ploughing.  Hence  to  dis- 
appoint, to  withliold  deceitfully. 

To  make  a  balk  of  good  (/round.  To 
throw  away  a  good  chance. 


Balker.  One  who  from  an  eminence 
balks  or  directs  fishermen  where  shoals 
of  herrings  have  gathered  together. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  bmlc-an,  to  shout.) 

Balkis.  The  Queen  of  Sheba  or  Saba, 
who  visited  Solomon.     (Al  Koran,  c.  it.) 

Ball.  To  strike  the  ball  under  the 
line.  To  fail  in  one's  object.  The  al- 
lusion is  to  the  game  of  tennis,  in  which  a 
line  is  stretched  in  the  middle  of  the 
court,  and  the  players  standing  on  each 
side  have,  with  their  rackets,  to  knock 
it  alternately  over  the  line. 

"Tlioii  hast  stricken  the  hall  under  the  line.''— 
Juhu  Ilei/icoadc's  Works  (London,  l."iiiii). 

To  take  the  ball  before  the  bound.  To 
anticipate  an  opportunity  ;  to  be  over- 
hasty.  A  metaphor  from  cricket,  as 
when  a  batsman  runs  up  to  meet  the 
ball  at  full  pitch,  before  it  bounds.  (See 
Balle.) 

Ba/l  of  Fortune  {A).  One  tos.sed, 
like  a  ball,  from  pillar  to  post ;  one  who 
has  experienced  many  vicissitudes  of 
fortune. 

"  Brcra'n  had  heen  from  infancy  a  hall  fm' fortune 
to  spurn  at."— ,S'/?'  Walter  Scott:  Guy  Manner imj, 
chaii.  xxi. 

The  ball  is  ivith  you.  It  is  your  turn 
now. 

To  have  the  ball  at  your  feet.  To  have 
a  thing  in  one's  power.  A  metaphor 
from  foot-ball. 

'■  We  have  the  hall  at  our  feet  ;  and,  if  the 
.trovernmeut  will  allow  it  .  .  .  \ve  can  now  <-rusli 
out  the  rehelliou."— Z-or(J^Mc/.';««(i. 

To  keep  the  hall  a-rolliny.  To  con- 
tinue Avithout  intermission.  To  keep 
the  fun  alive ;  to  keep  the  matter  going. 
A  metaphor  from  the  game  of  bandy, 
or  lajeu  de  la  cross. 

"  It  is  Russia  that  keeps  the  hall  rollinfr  [the 
Servian  and  Bulgarian  War,  lf*s.'>,  fomented  and 
encouraged  hy  Russian  usenls]."  —  Newspaper 
parayraph,  isw. 

To  keep  the  hall  up.  Not  to  let  con- 
versation or  fun  flag  ;  to  keep  the  thing 
going.  A  metaphor  taken  from  several 
games  played  with  balls. 

"  I  put  in  a  word  now  and  then  to  keep  the  hall 
\\\^."—lienlham. 

To  open  the  hall.  To  lead  off  the  first 
dance  at  a  ball.  (Italian,  ballaro,  to 
dance.) 

Balls.  The  three  golden  balls.  The 
emblem  of  St.  Nicholas,  who  is  .said  to 
have  given  three  purses  of  gold  to  three 
vii-gin  sisters  to  enable  them  to  marry. 

As  the  cognisance  of  the  Medici  family, 
they  probably  represent  three  golden  pills 
— a  punning  device  on  the  name.  Bo 
this,  however,  as  it  may,  it  is  from  the 


Ballad 


90 


Bambino 


Lombard  family  (the  first  great  money- 
lenders in  England)  that  the  sign  has 
been  appropriated  by  pawnbrokers.  (<S'«! 
MuGELLO  for  another  account.) 

Ballad  means,  strictly,  a  song  to 
dance-music,  or  a  song  sung  while 
dancing.  (Italian,  ballare,  to  dance, 
hallata,  our  ballad,  hallet  [17. t'.]). 

Ballads.  "  Let  me  make  the  hullads, 
and  who  will  maij  make  the  laics.'" 
Andrew  Fletcher  of  Saltoun,  in  Scot- 
laud,  wrote  to  the  Marquis  of  Montrose, 
"I  knew  a  very  wise  man  of  Sir 
Christopher  Musgrave's  sentiment.  He 
believed,  if  a  man  were  permitted  to 
make  all  the  ballads,  he  need  not  care 
who  should  make  the  laws  "  (1703). 

Ballambangjan  {The  Straits  of).  A 
sailor's  joke  for  a  place  where  he  may 
lay  any  wonderful  adventure.  These 
straits,  he  will  tell  us,  are  so  narrow 
that  a  ship  cannot  pass  through  without 
jamming  the  tails  of  the  monkeys  which 
haunt  the  trees  on  each  side  of  the 
strait ;  or  any  other  rigmarole  which  his 
fancy  may  conjure  up  at  the  moment. 

Ballast.  A  man  of  no  ballast.  Not 
steady ;  not  to  be  depended  on.  Un- 
steady as  a  ship  without  ballast.  A 
similar  phrase  is,  "  The  man  wants 
ballast." 

Balle.  Prriuhr  la  balle  an  bond 
(French).  Strike  while  the  iron  is  hot; 
make  hay  while  the  sun  shines.  The 
allusion  is  to  certain  games  at  ball, 
which  must  be  struck  at  the  moment  of 
the  rebound. 

Renvoyer  la  balle  a  qitelqu'' an  (French). 
To  pay  one  off  in  his  own  coin.  Liter- 
ally, to  strike  back  the  ball  to  the 
sender. 

Ballcndino  {Bon  Antonio).  Intended 
for  Anthony  Munday,  the  dramatist. 
(Ben  Jonson,  The  Case Altered,acom.edy.) 

Ballet  (pronounce  bal-lai/).  A 
theatrical  representation  of  some  adven- 
ture or  intrigue  by  pantomime  and 
dancing.  Baltazari'ni,  director  of  music 
to  Catherine  de'  Medici,  was  the  in- 
ventor of  modern  ballets. 

Balliol  College,  Oxford,  founded  in 
1263,  by  John  de  Baliol,  Knight  (father 
of  Baliol,  King  of  Scotland). 

Balloon  {A  pilot).  Metaphorically, 
a  feeler,  sent  to  ascertain  public  opinion. 

"The  pilot  balloon  sent  from  ....  has  shown 
[the  sender]  the  direction  of  the  wind,  and  lie 
now  trims  his  sails  accordingly."  —  JVett'spiipcr 
}>aru!jrcti}li,  January,  ls»6. 


Balloon  Post.  During  the  siege  of 
Paris,  in  1871,  fifty- four  balloon  posts 
were  dispatched,  carrying  two-and-a- 
half  million  letters,  weighing  ten  tons. 

Balm  (French,  ban  me).  Contraction 
of  balsam  (</.''.).  The  Balm  of  Gilead 
=  the  balsam  of  Gilead. 

Is  there  no  balm  in  Gilead  ?  Is  there 
no  remedj',  no  consolation,  not  even  in 
religion  ;■ 

Balmawhapple.  A  stupid,  obstinate 
Scottish  laii'd  in  Scott's  U'arerlei/,  a 
novtl  (180.5). 

Balmerino  {Lord)  was  beheaded, 
but  the  executioner  at  the  first  stroke 
cut  oidy  half  through  the  neck,  and  (we 
are  tokl)  his  lordsliijJ  turned  round  and 
griinied  at  the  bungler. 

Balmung  or  Gram.  The  sword  of 
Siegfried,  forged  by  Wieland,  the  Vulcan 
of  the  Scandinavians.  Wieland,  in  a 
trial  of  merit,  clove  Amil'ias,  a  brother 
smith,  through  steel  helmet  and  aimour, 
down  to  the  waist ;  but  the  cut  was  so 
fine  that  Amilias  was  not  even  aware 
tliat  he  was  wounded  till  he  attempted 
to  move,  when  he  fell  into  two  pieces. 
(Seajidiiiavian  mythology.) 

Balmy.  "  /  am  goiny  to  the  balmy  " 
— /.('.  to  "Balmy  sleep;  "  one  of  Dirk 
Swiveller's  pet  phrases.  {Diekeits  :  Old 
Cariosity  Shop.) 

Balmy-stick  {To  pat  on  the).  In 
prison  slang  means  to  feign  insanity ; 
and  the  "Balmy  Ward"  is  the  prison 
ward  in  which  the  insane,  real  or  feigned, 
are  confined. 

Balnibar'bi.    A    land    occupied    by 

projectors.     {Sicift :  GalUver's  2'ruvels.) 

Baltha'zar.  One  of  the  kings  of 
Cologne — i.e.  the  three  Magi,  who  came 
from  the  East  to  pay  reverence  to  the 
infant  Jesus.  The  two  other  magi  were 
Melchior  and  Gasper. 

Baltic.  The  Mediterranean  of  the 
nortli  (Swedish,  bait ;  Danish,  bre/te  ; 
Latin,  ba/tSas  ;  English,  belt),  the  sea  of 
the  "Belts." 

^  Balwhidder  {The  Rev.  Mieah).  A 
Scotch  Presbyterian  niinister,  full  of 
fossilised  national  prejudices,  but  both 
kind-hearted  and  sincere.  {Gait :  Annals 
of  the  Parish,  a  novel  (1821).) 

Bambi'no.  A  picture  or  image  of 
the  infant  Jesus,  swaddled  (Italian, 
bambi'no,  a  little  boy).  The  most  cele- 
brated is  that  in  the  church  of  Sta. 
Maria,  in  the  Ara  Coeli  of  Rome. 


Bambocciades 


Bande  Noire 


Bambocciades  (4  syl.).  Pictures 
of  grotesque  scenes  in  low  life,  such  as 
country  wakes,  penny  weddings,  and  so 
on.  They  are  so  called  from  tlie  Italian 
word  bahihoccio  (a  cripple),  a  nickname 
given  to  Pieter  van  Laer,  the  first  Dutch 
painter  of  such  scenes,  distiuguishcd  in 
Rome. 

Bamboc  cio  or  Bamboche.  ( <SVe 
Michael- AxGELO  des  Bamboches.) 

Bamboo'zle.  To  cheat  by  cunning, 
or  daze  with  tricks. 

".The  tliird  retiueiiient  oliservaWe  in  the  letter 
I  seiiil  vail,  cousists  iif  the  clioice  of  certain 
words  iuveuted  hy  some  vretty  feUows,  such  as 
banter,  haiubouzle  .  .  .  and  Uidney  .  .  .  some  of 
wliicli  are  now  strufglinsj  for  tbe  vogue,  and 
others  are  in  possession  of  it."— Swift:  The  Tatler 
(Sept.  M,  ino). 

To  hamhoozle  into  (doing  something). 
To  induce  by  trickery. 

'To  baixboozlc  one  out  of  something.  To 
get  something  by  trickery. 

Bampton  Lectures.  Founded  by 
the  Rev.  John  Bampton,  canon  of  Salis- 
bury. He  left  an  estate  to  the  university 
of  Oxford,  to  i^ay  for  eight  divinity  lec- 
tures on  given  sul)jects,  to  be  preached 
at  Great  St.  Mary's,  and  printed  after- 
wards. 

Ban.  A  proclamation  of  outlawry  ; 
a  denunciation  by  the  church  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  gc-baii,  a  proclamation ;  verb, 
ge-bannan). 

MarruKje  bans.     {Sec  Banns.) 

To  ban  is  to  make  a  proclamation  of 
outlawry.  To  banish  is  to  proclaim  a 
man  an  exile.     {See  Bandit.) 

Lefcr  le  bun  et  I'arriere  ban  (French). 
To  levy  the  ban  was  to  call  the  Iting's 
vassals  to  active  .service ;  to  levy  the 
(irrierc  ban  was  to  levy  the  vassals  of  a 
suzerain  or  uuder-lord. 

"  Le  mot  ban.  ciui  signifie  l>anuiere,  se  disait  de 
I'appel  fait  par  le  seit-'iieur  a  ses  vasauix  pour  les 
couvoiiuer  sous  son  utendard.  On  distingiiait  ie 
ban  compose  des  vassaux  imm6diat?J.  qui  etaieiit 
c<mvo(iu03  par  le  roi  luimOme,  et  Varrierc  ban, 
conipiiso  des  vassaux  couvoiiues  par  leiirs 
auztrainii."—Bouillet :  Uictionnaire  d'Uistoirc.  etc. 

Banagber.     {See  under  Beats.  ) 

Ban'at.  A  territory  under  a  ban 
(lord),  fiom  the  Illyrican  word  bojan,  a 
lord.  The  Turks  gave  this  title  to  the 
loi'ds  of  frontier  provinces — e.g.  the 
Banat  of  Croatia,  which  now  forms  part 
of  the  kingdom  of  Hungary. 

Banbury.  A  Banburij-inan—i.e.  a 
Puritan  {Ben  ./onson);  a  bigot.  From  the 
reign  of  Elizabeth  to  that  of  Charles  II. 
Banbury  was  noted  for  its  number  of 
Puritans  and  its  religious  "  zeal." 

Ax  thin  a.s  Banbiiri/  elieese.  In  Jiteh 
Brumes  £ntertainmeHi  we  read,  '"You 


are  like  a  Banbury  cheese,  nothing  but 
paring;"  and  Bardolph  compares  Slender 
to  Banbury  cheese  {Merry  Wiien,  i.  1). 
The  Banbury  cheese  is  a  rich  milk 
cheese  about  an  inch  in  thickness. 

Banco.  Slttine/s  in  Banco.  Sittings 
of  the  Superior  Com't  of  Common  Law 
in  its  ovvu  bench  or  court,  and  not  in 
circuit,  as  a  judge  of  Xisi  Friiis  {ij.r.). 
(Banc  is  Italian  for  "bench"  or  "seat 
of  justice.") 

So  niHch  banco — i.e.  so  much  bank 
money,  as  distinguished  from  current 
coin.  At  Hambm'g,  etc.,  ciu'rency  is  in- 
ferior to  "  bank  money."  (Not  money 
in  the  bank,  but  tlie  fictitious  value  set 
on  cash  by  bankers.) 

Bancus  Regius.  The  king's  or 
queeu's  bench.  Uaneits  Conuniinia,  the 
bench  of  common  pleas. 

Bandan  a  or  Bandanna.  A  pocket- 
handkerchief.  It  is  an  Indian  word, 
properly  applied  to  silk  goods,  but  now 
restricted  to  cotton  handkerchiefs  having 
a  dark  ground  of  Turkey  red  or  blue, 
with  little  white  or  yellow  spots.  (Hin- 
dij,  bandhnu,  a  mode  of  dyeing.) 

Bandbox.  He  eoines  oat  of  a  band- 
bo.r — ('.('.  he  is  so  neat  and  precise,  so 
carefully  got  up  in  his  di'ess  and  person, 
that  he  "looks  like  some  company  di'ess, 
carefully  kept  in  a  bandbox. 

2\eat  an  a  bandbox.  Neat  as  clothes 
folded  and  put  by  in  a  bandbox. 

Bandbox  Plot  {Th,).    Rapiu  {Hin- 
torij  of  Eni/Iand,  iv.  li'JT)  tells  us  that  a 
baiidbox  was  sent  to  the  lord-treasurer, 
in  Queen  Anne's  reign,  with  three  pistols 
charged  and  cocked,  the  triggers  being 
tied  to  a  pack-thread  fastened  to  the 
lid.     When  the  lid  was  lifted,  the  pistols 
would  go  off,  and  shoot  the  person  who 
opened   the  Uu.     He  adds  that   [dean] 
Swift  happened  to  be  by  at  the  time,  and 
seeing  the  pack-thread,  cut  it,  thereby 
saving  the  life  of  the  lord-treasurer. 
"Two  ink-horn  tops  your  Whigs  did  All 
With  gunpowder  and  lead; 
Which  with  two  serpents  made  of  ciuill, 

You  in  a  bandbox  laid; 
A  tinder-box  there  was  beside, 

Which  had  a  trigger  to  it, 
To  which  the  very  string  was  ty'd 
That  was  designed  to  do  it." 

I'M  iiiion  rtot  (aliout  1713). 

Bande  Noire.  Properly,  a  blaeh 
band;  metaphorically,  the  I'andal  So- 
ciety. Those  capitalists  that  bought  up 
the  Church  property  confiscated  in  the 
gi-eat  French  revolution  were  so  called, 
because  they  recklessly  pulled  down 
ancient  buildings  and  destroyed  relics  of 
great  antiquity. 


Bandit 


92 


Ban  net 


Bandit,  plural  banditti  or  bandits, 
properly  means  outlaw  (Italian,  bandito, 
banished,  men  pronounced  "banned"). 
As  these  outlaws  very  often  became 
robbers,  the  term  soon  came  to  signify 
banded  highwaymen. 

Bands.  Clerical  bands  are  a  relic  of 
the  ancient  amice,  a  square  linen  tippet 
tied  about  the  neck  of  priests  during  the 
administration  of  mass  (Discontinued 
by  the  parochial  clergy  the  hitter  part  of 
the  19th  century,  but  still  used  by 
clerics  on  the  C'r>ntinent.) 

Leijal  bands  are  a  relic  of  the  wide  col- 
lars whicli  formed  a  part  of  the  ordinary 
dress  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.,  and 
which  were  especially  conspicuous  in  the 
reign  of  the  Stuarts.  In  the  showy  daj^s 
of  Charles  II.  the  plain  bands  were 
changed  for  lace  ends. 

"  Tlic  eislitli  Henry,  as  I  understand. 
Was  ttu'  first  prince  tliat  ever  wore  a  liand." 
John  Tii!ilor,the  Il'ater  Poet  {I S»>lli54). 

Bandy.  /  am.  not  going  to  bandij 
tvords  icith  yon — i.e.  to  dispute  about 
words.  The  reference  is  to  a  game 
called  Bandy.  The  players  have  each  a 
stick  with  a  crook  at  the  end  to  strike  a 
wooden  or  other  hard  ball.  The  ball  is 
bandied  from  side  to  side,  eacli  party 
trying  to  beat  it  home  to  the  opiJosite 
goal.     (Anglo-Saxon,  bcndan,  to  bend.) 

"Tlie  l)at  was  called  a  bandy  from  its  lieini,' 
lient." — Brund:  PopiLlar  AvtiquUies{s.Yl\c\e"Go\f," 
II.  sai). 

Bane  really  means  ruin,  death,  or 
destruction  (Anglo-Saxon,  bana,  a  mur- 
derer) ;  and  "  I  will  be  his  bane,"  means 
I  will  ruin  or  murder  him.  Bane  is, 
therefore,  a  mortal  inj-ury. 
"  Jly  liane  ami  antidote  are  both  before  it. 

Tljis  [sword]  in  a  moment  brings  me  to  an  end. 

But  this  [I'liUo]  assures  me  I  shall  never  die." 
Addison:  Cnto. 

Bango'rian  Controversy.  A  theo- 
logical paper-war  stured  up  by  a  sermon 
preached  March  31st,  1717,  before  George 
I.,  by  Dr.  Hoadly,  Bishop  of  Bangor, 
on  the  text,  ' '  My  kingdom  is  not  of  this 
world."  The  best  rej^ly  is  by  Law,  in  a 
series  of  Letters  to  Hoadhj. 

Bang-up,  or  lilap-bang.  First-rate, 
thumping,  as  a  "  thumping  legacy." 
It  is  a  slang  punning  synonym  of 
thumping  or  striknig.  Slap  bang  is 
double  bang,  or  doubly  striking. 

Banian  or  Banyan  {A).  A  loose 
coat  (Anglo-Indian). 

"  His  coat  was  brownish  Mack  perliaiis  of  yore, 
In  snnjnipr  time  a  banyan  loose  he  wore." 

Loin  II :  FitzAdant's  Story  (Stanza  l.M. 

Banian  Days  [Ban-yan].  Days  when 
no  meat  is  served  to  a  ship's  crew.     The 


term  is  derived  from  the  Banians,  a  class 
of  Hindu  merchants,  who  carried  on  a 
most  extensive  trade  with  the  interior  of 
Asia,  but  being  a  caste  of  the  Vaisya, 
abstained  from  the  use  of  meat.  (Sans- 
krit, banij,  a  merchant.) 

Bank.  A  money-changer's  bench  or 
table.    (Italian  banco  or  banca.) 

Bank  of  a  River.  Stand  with 
your  back  to  the  source,  and  face  to  the 
sea  or  outlet :  the  left  bank  is  on  your 
left,  and  rig /it  bank  on  your  right  hand. 

iSisfers  of  t/ie  JUank,  i.e.  of  the  bank- 
side,  "  the  brothel  quarter"  of  London. 
Now  removed  to  a  different  quarter, 
and  divided  into  ''North"  and  "South." 

"  On  this  side  of  the  Ranke  was  sometinics  the 
liordello  or  stewes."— .S'toit' ;  Surven. 

Bankrupt.  Money-lenders  in  Italy 
used  to  disjilay  the  money  they  had  to 
lend  out  on  a  banco  or  bench.  When 
one  of  these  money-lenders  was  unable 
to  continue  business,  his  bench  or  coun- 
ter was  broken  up,  and  he  himself  was 
spoken  of  as  a  bancorotto — i.e.  a  bank- 
rupt. 

Bankside.  Part  of  the  borough  of 
Southwark,  noted  in  the  time  of  Shake- 
speare for  its  theatres  and  retreats  of  tlie 
demi-monde,  called  "Sisters  of  the 
Bank." 

"Come,  1  will  send  for  a  whole  coach  or  two  of 
Bankside  ladies,  and  w^  will  be  jovial."— 7fn?i- 
doliili :  The  Muses'  Loukh.j  Glass. 

Banks's  Horse.  A  learned  horse, 
called  Marocco,  belonging  to  one  Banks, 
in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  It  is 
said  that  his  shoes  were  of  silver.  One 
of  his  exploits  was  "the  ascent  of  St. 
Paul's  steeple." 

Ban'natyne  Club.  A  literary  club 
which  takes  its  name  from  George  Ban- 
natyne,  to  whose  industry  we  owe  the 
preservation  of  very  much  of  the  early 
Scotch  poetry.  It  was  instituted  in  1823 
by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  and  had  for  its 
object  the  publication  of  rare  works 
illustrative  of  Scotch  history,  poetry, 
and  general  literature.  The  club  was 
dissolved  in  1859. 

Banner    means    a    piece    of    cloth. 

(Anglo-Saxon,  fa)>a  ;  Latin,  paniras  ; 
Welsh,  baner;  Italian,  bandie'ra;  French, 
bauniere.) 

"An  emperor's  banner  should  be  sixe  footc 
lonse,  and  the  same  in  breadth  ;  a  kind's  lianner 
Hve  foote  ;  a  prince's  and  a  dnkc's  liaiiner.  four 
foote  ;  a  marquys's,  an  crle's,  a  viscount's,  a 
baron's,  and  a  banneret's  banner  shall  be  but 
three  fuote  scjuare.''— Air/.-. 

The  banner  of    tlie  Trophet  is  called 


Banneret 


93 


Baptes 


ISanjck-shcrif,  and  is  kept  in  the  Eyab 
mos(iue  of  Coustantiuojile. 

The  tiro  black  bai/ncrn  borne  before  the 
Cahfs  of  the  house  of  Abbas  were  called 
Kif/ht  and  •Shadow. 

The  sacral  hu)incr  of  France  is  the 
Orijlauiiuc  {q.v.). 

Banners  in  churches.  These  are  sus- 
pended as  thauk-ofteiings  to  God.  Those 
in  St.  George's  Chapel,  Windsor,  Henry 
VII. 's  Chapel,  Westmuister,  etc.,  are  to 
indicate  that  the  knight  whose  banner  is 
hung  up,  avows  himself  devoted  to  God's 
service. 

Banneret.  One  who  leads  his  vassals 
to  battle  mider  his  own  banner.  A 
kniglit  made  in  the  field  was  called  a 
banneret,  because  the  chief  ceremony 
was  cutting  or  teaiiiig  off  the  pointed 
ends  of  his  banner. 

Banniere.  Cent  ans  bannihe,  cent 
ans  civicre.  The  ups  and  downs  of  life. 
A  grand  seigneur  who  has  had  his 
banner  caiiied  before  him  for  a  centurj', 
may  come  to  drive  his  hand-barrow 
tlirough  the  streets  as  a  costermonger. 

Banniere.  //  faut  la  croi.r  ct  la 
hdituicre  pour  I'avoir.  If  you  want  to 
have  him,  j-ou  must  make  a  gi-eat  fuss 
over  him — you  must  go  to  meet  him 
with  cross  and  banner,  "«//«•  an  (levant 
(Ic  liii  avcc  iin  croix  et  la  banniere." 

Banns  of  Marriage.  Tlie  publi- 
cation in  the  parish  church  for  three 
successive  Sundays  of  an  intended  mar- 
riage. It  is  made  after  the  Second 
Lesson  of  the  Moniiug  Service.  To 
announce  the  iatention  is  called  "  Pub- 
lishing the  banns,"  from  the  words  "  I 
publish  the  banns  of  marriage  bet^veen 
.  .  .  ."  (Anglo-Saxon,  gv-bannan,  to 
in'oclaim,  to  announce). 

To  forbid  the  banns.  To  object  to  the 
projiosed  mamage. 

"  And  a  better  fate  <liil  poor  Maria  deserve  tlian 
to  have  a  banns  forbidden  l)y  t'.ie  curate  of  tlie 
IBirisli  who  iniblishea  tUeiu."— i'icrHC ;  flentiiiau- 
tal  Journey. 

Banquet  used  at  one  time  to  mean 
the  dessert.  Thus,  Taylor,  in  the 
Penny  less  Tilr/riiji,  says  :  "  Our  first  and 
second  course  being  threescore  dishes 
at  one  boord,  and  after  that,  always  a 
banquet."  (French,  banquet;  banc,  a 
liench  or  table.  We  use  "table"  also 
for  a  meal  or  feast,  as  "the  funeral 
baked  meats  did  coldly  furnish  forth 
the  marriage  table,"  i.e.  feast.) 

"  After  suinier  ...  a  delirate  liaminet,  with 
abundance  of  wine.'— Cogan  (l.j.<i'. 

A  banquet  of  brine.     A  flood  of  tears. 

"Jly  heart   was  charged  to  overflowiug,  and 


forced   into   my   eyes  a  banciiict  of  Ijrine."— C. 

Thomson,:  Antobioijrapliij,  \i.  :;(iy. 

Ban'quo.  A  Scotch  general  of  royal 
extraction,  who  obtained  several  victories 
over  the  Highlanders  and  Danes  iu  the 
reign  of  Donald  YII.  He  was  murdered 
by  the  order  of  Macbeth,  and  his  ghost 
haunted  the  guilty  usurper.  {Shake- 
speare:  2Iacbeth.) 

Banshee.  The  supposed  domestic 
spirit  of  certaia  Irish  or  Highland 
Scottish  families,  supi^osed  to  take  an 
interest  iu  its  welfare,  and  to  wail  at 
the  death  of  one  of  the  family.  The 
Welsh  "  Cyhyraeth  "  is  a  sort  of 
Banshee. 

V  The  distinction  of  a  Banshee  is 
allowed  only  to  families  of  pure  Milesian 
stock.  (Gaelic,  ban-si th,  a  woman- 
faiiy.) 

Bantam.  A  little  bantam  cork.  A 
little  plucky  fellow  that  will  not  be 
])ullied  bj-  a  person  bigger  than  himself. 
The  bantam  cock  will  encounter  a  dung- 
hill cock  five  times  his  own  weight,  and 
is  therefore  said  to  "  have  a  great  souliu 
a  little  body."  The  bantam  originally 
came  from  Bantam,  in  Java. 

Banting.  Doing  Banting.  Eeducing 
superfluous  fat  by  livmg  on  meat  diet, 
and  abstaining  from  beer,  farinaceous 
food,  and  vegetables,  according  to  the 
method  adopted  by  WilHam  Banting,  a 
London  cabinet-maker,  once  a  very  fat 
\aimfljorn  1796,  died\%'i'S).  The  word 
was  introduced  about  1864. 

Bantling.  A  child.  Mahn  suggests 
the  German,  bdnkling,  a  bastard. 
(Query,  baiulling,  a  little  one  in  swadd- 
ling-clothes.) 

Banyan.  A  Hmdii  shopkeeper.  In 
Bengal  it  denotes  a  native  who  manages 
the  money  concei-ns  of  a  European,  and 
also  serves  as  an  inteipreter.  In  Madras 
such  an  agent  is  called  Dubash  {^i.e.  one 
who  can  speak  two  languages).  {See 
Baijia^j  Days.) 

Bap  or  Bap'homet.  An  imaginary 
idol  or  symbol,  which  the  Templars  were 
said  to  employ  in  their  mysterious  rites. 
The  word  is  a  corruption  of  Mahomet. 
(French,  Baplvjuut  ;  Old  S^janish,  Mato- 
mat.) 

Bap'tes  (2  syl.).  Priests  of  the  god- 
dess Cotyt'to,  -whose  midnight  orgies 
were  so  obscene  that  they  disgusted  even 
Cotytto,  the  goddess  of  obscenity.  They 
received  their  name  from  the  Greek 
verb  hapto,  to  wash,  because  they  bathed 
themselves  in  the  most  effeminate  man- 
ner.    {Juvenal,  u.  91.) 


Baptist 


94 


Barbary 


Baptist.  John  the  Baptist.  His 
symbol  is  a  sword,  the  instrument  by 
which  he  was  beheaded. 

Bar.  Tlie  whole  body  of  barristers  ; 
as  hcncli  means  the  whole  body  of 
bishops. 

"  A  dinner  was  given  to  tbe  English  Bar."— T/ie 
Times.  , 

Bar,  excepting.  In  racing  phrase  a 
man  will  bet  "Two  to  one,  bar  one," 
that  is,  two  to  one  against  any  horse  in 
the  field  with  one  exception.  The  word 
means  "  barring  out  "  one,  shutting  out, 
or  debaning  one. 

Bar.  uif  the  bar.  As  the  prisoner  at 
the  bar,  the  prisoner  in  the  dock  before 
the  judge. 

Trial  at  bar,  i.e.  by  the  full  court  of 
judges.  The  bar  means  the  jjlace  set 
apart  for  the  business  of  the  court. 

2h  be  ealled  to  the  bar.  To  be  admitted 
a  barrister.  The  bar  is  the  partition 
sejiaratiug  the  seats  of  the  benchers 
from  the  rest  of  the  hall.  Students 
having  attained  a  certain  status  used  to 
be  called  from  the  body  of  the  hall 
within  the  bar.  to  take  part  in  the 
proceedings  of  the  court.  To  disbar  is 
to  fJi.feard  froui  tlie  bar.  Now,  "to  be 
called  within  the  bar  "  means  to  be  ap- 
pointed king's  (or  queen's)  counsel ;  and 
to  disbar  means  to  exjiel  a  banister 
from  his  profession. 

Bar,  in  heraldry.  An  honourable  or- 
dinary, consisting  of  two  parallel  lines 
drawn  across  the  shield  and  containing 
a  fifth  part  of  the  field. 

"  A  iKirre  ...  is  dia-n-ne  overtliwart  tlie  cs- 
riicliDn  .  .  .  it  Cdntaiiietli  tlie  tlfth  part  of  tlie 
Kii-hl.''— rV!Ci7//;)(  ;  Ihraldnj. 

A  Bar  sinister  in  an  heraldic  shield 
means  one  drawn  the  reverse  way  ;  thtit 
is,  not  from  left  to  right,  but  from  right 
to  left.  Popularlj^  but  erroneously 
supposed  to  indicate  bastardy. 

Bar  {Trial  at).  The  examination  of 
a  difficult  cause  before  the  four  judges 
iu  the  suiierior  courts. 

Bar  abas.  The  hero  of  Marlow's 
tragedy,  The  Jew  of  Malta. 

"A  mere  monster,  lirouglit  in  with  a  large 
liainteil  nose.  .  .  .  He  kills  in  sport,  iioisonswlmir 
nunneries,  invents  infernal  machines.   .    .  .'■—('. 

Barata'ria.  Sancho  Panza's  island- 
city,  over  which  he  was  appointed  go- 
vernor. The  table  was  presided  over 
by  Doctor  Pedro  Kezio  de  Ague'ro,  who 
caused  every  dish  set  ujioii  the  board  to 
be  removed  without  being  tasted — some 
because  they  heated  the  blood,  and  others 
because  they  chilled  it ;  some  for  one  ill 
effect,   and   some  for  another ;    so  that 


Sancho  was  allowed  to  eat  nothing.  The 
word  is  from  harato  (cheap). 

"The  meat  was  put  on  the  tahle,  and  whisked 
away,  like  rtaiicho's  inauguration  least  at  Bara- 
taria."— TZ/oc/icro;/. 

Barathron.  A  deep  ditch  behind 
the  Acropolis  of  Athens  into  which 
malefactors  were  thrown  :  somewhat  iu 
the  same  wa}-  as  criminals  at  Rome  were 
cast  from  the  "  Tarpeian  Rock." 

Barb.  An  arrow.  The  feathers  under 
the  beak  of  a  hawk  were  called  barb 
feathers  (beard  feathers).  The  point  of 
an  arrow  has  two  iron  "  feathers,"  which 
stick  out  so  as  to  hinder  the  extraction 
of  the  arrow.     (Latin,  Jmrba,  a  beard.) 

N.B. — The  barb  is  not  the  feather  on 
the  upper  part  of  the  shaft,  but  the 
hooked  iron  point  or  head. 

Barb.  A  Barbary  steed,  noted  for 
docility,  speed,  endurance,  and  spirit. 
{Sec  Barbed  Steeds.) 

Bar'bari.  Quod nonfeee' rant  Barbari, 
fcee'runt  Barberi'ni  (What  the  barbarians 
left  standing,  Barberiui  contrived  to 
destroy).  Pope  Barberini  robbed  the 
roof  of  the  Pantheon  to  build  the  Bald- 
acchi'no,  or  canopj^  of  St.  Peter's.  It  is 
made  entirely  of  bronze,  and  weighs 
ninety  tons. 

Barbarians  is  certainly  not  derived 
from  the  Latin  barba  (a  beard),  as  many 
su^jpose,  because  it  is  a  Greek  word,  and 
has  many  analogous  ones.  The  Greeks 
and  Romans  called  all  foreigners  bar- 
barians (babblers  ;  men  who  spoke  a  lan- 
guage not  understood  by  them) ;  the  Jews 
called  them  Gentiles  (other  nations)  ; 
the  Russians  Ostiaks  (foreigners).  The 
reproachful  meaning  crej^t  in  from  the 
natural  egotism  of  man.  It  is  not  very 
long  ago  that  an  Englishman  looked 
with  disdainful  pity  on  a  foreigner, 
and  the  French  still  retain  much  of 
the   same  national  exclwsiveness.      {See 

WUNDEEBEEG.) 

"  If  tlien  I  know  not  the  meaning  of  the  voice 
[irnrds],  I  shall  lie  to  him  that  speaketh  a  bar- 
barian [a  fnreifiner'],  and  he  that  speaketh  will 
be  a  barliarian  unto  me."— 1  Cor.  xiv.  11. 

Barbarossa  [Bed-beard,  similar  to 
Bafts].  The  surname  of  Frederick  I. 
of  Gormnny  (1121-1190).  Also  Khair- 
eddin  BarViarossa,  a  famous  corsair  of 
the  sixteenth  century. 

Barbary.  St.  Barbari/,  the  patron 
saint  of  arsenals  and  powder  magazines. 
Her  father  delivered  her  up  to  Martian, 
governor  of  Nicome'dia,  for  being  a 
Christian.  After  she  had  been  subjected 
to  the  most  cruel  tortures,  her  unnatural 


Barbason 


95 


Barcelona 


father  was  about  to  strike  off  her  head, 
when  a  liglitniug  flash  laid  liim  dead  at 
her  feet.  Heuce,  those  who  invoke 
saiuts  select  St.  Barbary  in  thvuider- 
storms.     (.Vrc  Baebe.) 

lioaii  Burbarij.     The  favourite  horse 
of  Kichard  II.     {See  Hoesb.) 
"  O,  liow  it.  yoanieil  my  lieart  when  I  beheld 

In  Loiiildii  sireets  that  ccironatiim  ilay, 

When  Biiliii.i-'liroke  rode  on  i-oan  Barljary  ! 

That  hcii'se  that  thou  [Rich.  II.]  so  often  hast 
hestrid, 

Tliat  horse  tliat  I  so  carefully  have  dressed." 
ShuUeapeare  :  Richard  II.,  v.  5. 

Bar'bason.  A  fiend  mentioned  by 
Shakespeare  in  the  Merry  IFires  of 
iri/idaur,  ii.  2,  and  in  Henri/  V.,  ii.  1. 

"  .Auiaimon  souuds  well,  I,ueifer  well,  Tiarliason 
well  ;  yet  tbey  are  .  .  .  the  names  of  tlends."— 
Marij  Wives. 

Barbazure  (or  liliie-Benrd).  See 
"  rtincli^s  Prize  Novelists,"  by  Thack- 
eray. 

Barbe  {Ste.).  The  powder-room  in  a 
Freucli  ship  ;  so  called  from  St.  Barbara, 
the  patron  saint  of  artillery.     {See  Bae- 

BAEY.) 

A  harhe  de  foil  appreud-on  a  retire 
(French).  An  apprentice  is  taught  to 
shave  on  the  chin  of  a  fool. 

2\l  a  flit  sa  barbe,  eiiii  n''est  pas  bean 
fils  (French).  You  may  waste  half  the 
clay  ou  making  your  toilet,  and  j'et  not 
come  forth  an  Adonis.  You  cannot 
make  a  silk  j)urse  of  a  sow's  ear.  Not 
every  block  will  make  a  Mercury. 

"  Heaii  lying  curls  a  million  on  your  head. 
On  s(jcks,  a  cubit  high,  plant  your  iiroud  tread. 
You're  just  what  you  are— that's  all  about  it." 
Goethe:  Faust  (Dr.  Anstcr),  p.  103. 

Bar'becue  (3  syl).  A  West  Indian 
dish,  consisting  of  a  hog  roasted  whole, 
stuffed  with  spice,  and  basted  with 
Madeira  wine.  Any  animal  roasted 
whole  is  so  called. 

"  OldMeld.  with  more  than  liarpy  throat  subdued. 
Cries,    'i^end    me,  ye   gods,    a  whole  hog  har- 
liecueil  ! '  "    Poiie  :  Satires,  ii.  L'5,  28. 

Barbed  Steed  (a  corruption  of 
barded).  A  horse  in  armoui-.  (French, 
barde,  caparisoned.) 

"  And  now,  instead  of  mountim-'  barbed  steeds 
T(i  friu'ht  I  lie  souls  nf  fi'.-irful  adversaries, 
lie  rajirrs  ninildv  in  a  l.-idv's  clianilier, 
To  the  lasciviiius  pleasing  of  a  lute." 

t<liiil;csj>eare :  Richard  III.,  act  i.  1. 

Barbel.  Latin,  barbe/f/is  (the  barbed 
fi.'ih)  ;  so  called  from  the  barbules,  or 
fleshy  appendages  round  the  mouth. 

Barbeliots.  A  sect  of  Gnostics.  Their 
first  immortal  son  they  called  Barbeloth, 
omniscient,  eternal,  and  incorruptible. 
He  engendered  light  by  the  instrument- 
ality of  Christ,  author  of  Wisdom.  From 
Wisdom  sprang  Autogenes,  and  from 
Autogenes,   Adam    (male   and   female). 


and  from  Adam,  matter.  The  first 
angel  created  was  the  Holy  Ghost, 
from  whom  sprang  the  first  prince, 
named  Protarchoutes,  who  married  Ar- 
rogance, whose  oft'spriug  was  Sin. 

Barber.    Every  barber  knotvs  tJmt 

"  Omnibus  uoluui  tonsoribus." 

Horace:  1  Satires,  VII.  3. 

In  Eonie  the  toiistri'iia;  or  barbers'  shops 
were  the  fashionable  resort  of  loungers 
and  idlers.  Here  every  scandal  was 
known,  and  all  the  talk  of  the  town  was 
rejieated. 

Barber  Poet.  Jacques  Jasmin,  last 
of  the  Troubadours,  who  was  a  barber 
ofGascouy.    (1798-1861.) 

Barber's  Pole.  The  gilt  knob  at  the 
end  represents  a  brass  basin,  which  is 
sometimes  actually  suspended  on  the 
pole.  The  basin  has  a  notch  cut  in  it  to 
tit  the  throat,  and  was  used  for  lathering 
customers  who  came  to  be  shaved.  The 
pole  represents  the  staff  held  by  jiersons 
in  venesection ;  and  the  two  sjiiral  ribbons 
paiuted  round  it  represent  the  two  ban- 
dages, one  for  twisting  round  the  arm 
previous  to  blood-letting,  and  the  other 
for  binding.  Barbers  used  to  be  the 
surgeons,  but  have  fallen  from  "their 
high  estate"  since  science  has  made  its 
voice  "  to  be  heard  on  high." 

N.B.  —  The  Barbers'  Hall  stood  in 
Moukwell  Street,  Cripplegate.  Tlie  last 
barber-surgeon  in  London  was  Middle- 
ditch,  of  Great  Suffolk  Street,  in  the 
Borough.    He  died  1821. 

"To  this  year"  (I.Vin,  says  Wornnm  .  .  . 
"belongs  the  Barber-Surgeons'  pirinri-uf  llmry 
(VIII. I  granting  a  charter  lo  llie  ('(irp(.r:ition. 
The  barljers  and  surgeons  of  Lnndnn,  urijinally 
constituting  one  company,  had  Icrn  srp.n.ited, 
but  were  awiin,  in  the  :U  Henry  \'  I II .,  combined 
into  a  single  society,  and  it  was  the  ceremony  nf 
presenting  them  with  a  new  charter  whi<di  is 
commemorated  by  H(dbein's  lucture,  miw  in  llieir 
hall  in  Moukwell  .Street." 

Barbican  (The)  or  Jlitrbitemt.  The 
outwork  intended  to  defend  the  draw- 
bridge in  a  fortified  town  or  castle 
(French,  barbaertiie).  Also  an  opening 
or  loophole  in  the  wall  of  a  fortress, 
through  which  guns  may  be  fired. 

Barbier.  Un  harbicr  ra.se  Paufrc 
(French).  Caw  me  and  I'll  caw  thee. 
One  good  turn  deserves  another.  One 
barber  shaves  another. 

Barcarole  (3  syl.).  A  song  sung  by 
Venetian  barettroli,  as  they  row  their 
gondolas.  (Italian,  barcaroh,  a  boatman.) 

Barcelona  (A).  A  fichu,  piece  of 
velvet  for  the  neck,  or  small  neck-tie, 
made   at    Barcelona,    and    common    in 


Barclayans 


9(5 


Bark 


Euglaud  iu  the  fii-st  quarter  of  the  iiine- 
toeuth  ceutury.  Also  a  neckcloth  of 
some  bright  coloiu',  as  red  with  yellow 
spots. 

"  Ami  on  this  liandkevcliii'f  so  sl:ircli  :ni(l  wliite 
She  riuucd  a  liiii-ccloiia  Mack  ;iiiil  ti.Lrlil." 

I'cfi-r  I'iiiditr:   VoiifoUn  (l)iinih'i. 
"  A   (loulile   Barcelona    in-oleileil    liis   nock."— 

iScult:  Pcoeiil  u/tlic  I'aik  {I'n/atuiii  Letter.) 

Barclayans.    {Sec  Bkee'ans.) 

Barco'chebah    or     Barchochebas 

(Shiincoii).  A  fanatical  leader  of  the 
Jews  who  headed  a  revolt  of  the  Jews 
against  the  Romans  a.d.  132,  took  Jeru- 
salem iu  Vi'l,  and  was  slain  by  Julius 
Sevtlrus  in  an  assault  of  Bethel,  a.d.  13.3. 
{Didot:  XonccUc  Blvynipliiv  Unii'crscUc.) 

"Shared  the  fall  of  the  Antichrist  Barco- 
chohaSx."— Professor  Seeley  :  Ecce  Homo. 

Bardesanists.  Followers  of  Bar- 
desa,iios,  of  Edessa,  founder  of  a  Gnostic 
sect  iu  the  second  century.  They  be- 
lieved that  tlie  human  body  was  ethereal 
till  it  became  imbruted  with  sin.  Milton, 
in  his  C'oiims,  refers  to  this : — 

"  When  Lust 
liv  unchaste  looks,  loose  postures,  and  foul  talk, 
r.nl  most  1)V  lewd  ami  la\  ish  acls  of  sin, 
l.i'is  in  dollh-niont  to  I  ho  inward  parts, 
'I'lio  s.iiil  u'l'ous  cloiicd  hy  c(inla;,'iou, 
Inihndics  and  inilinuos." 

Bardit.  The  ancient  German  chant, 
which  incited  to  war. 

Bardo  de'  Bardi.  A  wealthy  Flor- 
entine scholar,  father  of  llomola,  iu 
George  Eliot's  lloinola,  a  novel  (1863). 

Bardolph.  One  of  Falstaff's  inferior 
oflicers.  Falstaft'  calls  him  "  the  knight 
of  the  burning  lamp,"  because  his  nose 
was  so  red,  and  his  face  so  "full  of 
meteors."  He  is  a  low-l)red,  drunken 
swaggerer,  without  principle,  and  poor 
as  a  church  mouse.  {Mcrrij  IV'iccs ; 
ILciiri/  IV.,  i.,  ii.) 

"We  must  have  hotlor  assui'ance  for  Sir  .Tuhn 
tlian  Bardolf's.  Wo  like  uot  the  security."— /,o/-(( 
Miu-aitUiii. 

Bards.  The  oldest  bardic  composi- 
tio];s  that  have  been  preserved  are  of  the 
fifth  century  ;  the  oklest  existing  manu- 
script is  the  Pki(H(T  of  Caifhr/,  a  col- 
li'ition  of  bardic  legends,  comjiiledin  tlie 
ninth  century  by  Cormac  Mac  Culiiiau, 
bishoiJ  of  Cashcl  and  king  of  Minister. 

Jiard  of  A  voii .  Sliakespeare,  who  was 
bom  and  buried  at  Stratford- u])on- Avon. 
Also  called  "The  bard  of  all  times." 
(I.")l)l-1G1().) 

Bard  of  Ai/rs/iirr.  Ro1>ert  Burns,  a 
native  of  Ayrshire.     (17-')!)- 179(5.) 

Bard  of  Ifo/jc.  Thomas  Cam]iboll, 
author  of  T/w  r/msitrcs  of  Hojie.  (1777- 
1814.) 


Bard  of  the  Ima<fut.al'wn.  Mark  Akeu- 
side,  author  of  I'lcaiittres  of  the  I  may  illa- 
tion.    (1721-1770.) 

Bard  of  Meiiiorj/.  Rogers,  author  of 
Tlie  Fleamrcs  of  Meinori/.     (17()2-18.i.5.) 

Bard  of  Olnei/.  Cowper,  who  resided 
at  OIney,  iu  Bucks,  for  many  years. 
(1731-1800.) 

The  Bard  of  Prose. 

"  He  of  the  hundred  tales  of  love." 

Uliildc  Harold,  iv.  56. 

t.e   Boccaccio. 

The  Bard  of  Bi/dal  Monnf.  William 
Wordsworth  ;  so  called  because  Rydal 
Mount  was  his  mountain  home.  Also 
called  the  "  Poet  of  the  Excursion," 
from  his  principal  poem.     (1770-18.30.) 

Hard  of  Tn-icl:<iih(nii.  Alexander  Pope, 
who  resided  atTwickunhain.  (1G88-I7il.) 

Barcbone  Parliament  {The).  The 
Parliament  convened  by  Cromwell  in 
1633  ;  so  called  from  Praise-God  Bare- 
bone,  a  fanatical  leader,  who  was  a 
XH'ominent  member. 

Barefaced.  Audacious,  shameless, 
impudent.  This  seems  to  imply  that 
social  and  good  manners  require  cou- 
cealraent,  or,  at  any  rate,  to  veil  the  face 
with  "white  lies."  Iu  Latin — r electa 
faeic ;  iu  French— ff  visaf/e  diconrert. 
Cassius  says  to  his  friend  Brutus,  "If  I 
have  veiled  my  looks  .  .  .  ,"  that  is, 
concealed  my  thoughts  from  you. 

Barefooted.  Certain  monks  and 
nuns,  who  use  sandals  instead  of  shoes. 
The  Jews  and  Romaus  used  to  put  off 
their  shoes  in  mourning  and  public 
calamities,  by  way  of  humiliation.  The 
practice  is  defended  by  the  command  of 
our  Lord  to  His  disciples:  "Carry 
neither  purse,  nor  scrip,  uor  shoes  " 
(Lukex.  4). 

Bare  Poles  ( Under)  implies  that  the 
weather  is  rough  and  the  wind  so  high 
that  the  ship  displays  no  sails  on  the 
masts.      Figuratively  applied  to  a  man 

reduced  to  the  last  extremity.  Figura- 
tively, a  disingenuous  j^erson  sails  under 
bare  poles. 

"  We  were  sruddins  before  a  heavy  gale,  under 
hare  jioles."— C«p(.  MarrytU. 

Bargain.  Into  the  barr/ain.  Iu  ad- 
dilinii  thereto;  besides  what  was  bar- 
gMiucd  for. 

To  make  the  best  of  a  bad  harejnin.  To 
bear  bad  luck,  or  "a  bad  bargain,  with 
eipianimity. 

Bark.  Dogs  iu  their  wild  state  never 
b;irk  ;  they  howl,  whine,  and  growl,  but 
do  not  kirk.  Ba,rking  is  an  acquired 
habit ;    and  as  only  domesticated  dogs 


Barker 


97 


Barnacle 


bark,  this  effort  of  a  dog  to  speak  is  no 
indication  of  a  savage  temper. 

JUirkiiitj  dogs  schloni  lute.  Huffing, 
bouncing,  hectoring  fellows  rarely  pos- 
sess cool  courage. 

French:  "Tout  chien  qui  aboye  ne 
mord  pas." 

Latin  :  "  Canes  timidi  vehementius 
latrant  quam  mordent." 

Italian:  "  Can  che  abbaianonmorde." 

German  :  "Ein  hellender  hund  beisst 
nicht  leicht." 

Tn  bark  at  the  moon.  To  rail  at  those 
in  high  places,  as  a  dog  thinks  to 
frighten  the  moon  by  baying  at  it. 
There  is  a  superstition  that  it  portends 
death  or  ill-luck. 

"  I'd  rather  be  a  ilofj,  ami  bay  the  moon, 
Tl]aii  such  a  Iloinaii." 

Shakespeare :  Julius  Ccesar,  iv. ."?. 

Jlin  bark  is  worse  titan  his  bite.  He 
scolds  and  abuses  roundly,  but  does  not 
bear  malice,  or  do  mischief.  The  pro- 
verb says,  "  Barking  dogs  never  bite." 

Barker.  A  pistol,  which  barks  or 
mnkcs  a  loud  rejjort. 

Barktan.  The  famous  black  stone  in 
the  eastern  corner  of  the  Kaaba  ;  it  is  4^ 
feet  in  length,  and  is  surrounded  with  a 
circle  of  gold.  The  legend  is  that  when 
Abraham  wished  to  build  the  Kaaba,  the 
stones  came  to  him  of  their  own  accord, 
and  the  patriarch  commanded  all  the 
faithful  to  kiss  the  Barktan. 

Bar'laham.  A  hermit  who  converted 
Jos'aphat,  an  Indian  prince.  This  Ger- 
man romance,  entitled  Barlahani  and 
Josap/iat,  was  immensely  popular  in  the 
Middle  Ages.  It  was  written  by  Eudolf 
of  Ems  (13th  century). 

Barley.  To  en/  harlcij.  To  ask  for 
truce  (in  children's  games).  Query,  a 
corruption  of  parley. 

"  A  in'oiier  lad  o'  his  qiiarlers,  that  will  uot,  rry 
bai-ley  in  a  bnilzie."— .S'ii'  ^Y.  Scott:  Wan-rley,  xiii. 

Barley-bree.  Barley-broth ;  that  is, 
malt  liquor  brewed  from  barley  {Scotch). 

'■The  oock  may  ovaw,  the  dav  mav  daw, 
Ami  aye  we'll  taste  the  barley-brco." 

Bitnis :  ll'i7;!e  Hreiv'd  a  Pecku  Maui. 

BarJ^y  Cap.  To  wear  the  baric;/ 
cap.  lo  be  top-heavy  or  tipsy  with 
barley-bree.  The  liquor  got  into  the 
head. 

Barleycorn.  John  or  Sir  John  Bar- 
hijcorn.  A  pei'souification  of  malt  liquor. 
The  term  has  been  made  pojiular  by 
Kobert  Burns. 

"  Inspiring  bold  John  Barleycorn, 
AVhat  dangers  them  canst  make  us  scorn  '.  " 
Burns:  'I'am  o'  Sliautci;  103,  loii. 


Barley-mow.  A  lieap  of  barley 
housed,  or  where  it  is  housed.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  moirc,  a  heap;  Italian,  mncchio  ; 
Spanish,  iiutcho.) 

Barley  Sugar.  Sugar  boiled  in  a 
decoction  of  barley.  It  is  not  now  made 
so,  but  with  sail'ron,  sugar,  and  water, 
flavoured  with  oil  of  citron,  orange,  or 
lemon, 

"  Barley  sugar  was  prepared  by  boiling  down 
ordinary  siiuar  in  a  decociiun  of  pearl-barlev."-- 
Kiinirledc/e  (.luly  fJtli,  bsSi). 

Bar'mecide  (3  syl.).  The  word  is 
used  to  express  the  uncertainty  of  things 
on  which  we  set  our  heart.  As  the 
beggar  looked  forward  to  a  feast,  but 
found  only  empty  dishes ;  so  many  a 
joy  is  found  to  be  mere  illusion  when 
we  come  to  partake  of  it. 

"To-morrow  :  Ihe  mysterious  unknown  guest 
Who  cries  aloud, '  Keniomber  Barmecide! 
And  tremble  to  be  happy  with  the  rest.'  " 

LiMKjfelhiw. 

Bar'mecide's  Feast.  A  feast  where 
there  is  nothing  to  eat ;  any  illusion. 
Barmecide  asked  Schac'abac,  a  poor, 
starving  wretch,  to  dinner,  and  set 
before  him  an  empty  jilate.  "How  do 
you  like  your  soup  r* "  asked  the  mer- 
chant. "  Excellently  well,"  rci)li(>d 
Schac'abac.  "Did  you  ever  see  whiter 
bread':'"  "Never,  lionourable  sir," 
was  the  civil  answer.  Wine  was  then 
brought  in,  and  Schac'abac  was  jiressetl 
to  drink,  but  excused  himself  by  saying 
he  was  alwaj's  quarrelsome  in  his  cups. 
Being  over-persuaded,  he  fell  foul  of 
his  host,  and  was  provided  with  food  to 
his  heart's  content.  {Arabian  Xights  : 
Barhcr''s  Sixth  Brother.) 

Bar'nabas.  St.  Barnabas'  -Off//,  June 
11.  St.  Barnabas  was  a  fellow-labourer 
of  St.  Paul.  His  symbol  is  a  rake, 
because  the  11th  of  June  is  the  time  of 
hay-harvest. 

Bar'nabltes  (3  syl.).  An  Order  of 
monks,  so  called  because  the  church  of 
St.  Barnabas,  in  Milan,  was  given  to 
them  to  preach  in.  They  are  also  called 
"  Canons  of  St.  Paul,"  because  the  oi'igi- 
nal  society  made  a  poiut  of  reading  St. 
Paul's  Epistles. 

Barnaby  Lecturers.  Four  lei  - 
turers  in  the  University-  of  Cambridge, 
elected  annually  on  St.  Barnabas'  Day 
(June  11),  to  lecture  on  mathematics, 
philosophy,  rhetoric,  and  logic. 

Barnaby  Rudge.  A  half-witted 
lad     whose     companion     is     a     raven. 

{JJickrns :  B</rnat>/  Uxdijc.) 

Bar'nacle.  The  Solan  goose.  TIkj 
stnmge  tnles  of  this  creature  have  arisen 


Barnacles 


93 


Barratry 


from  a  tissue  of  blunders.  The  Latin 
pcrnac'ula  is  a  "small  limpet,"  and  her- 
nacidd  (Portuguese,  hcriutca:  French,  bfir- 
nachc)  is  the  Scotch  brcu-dalce  or  "  Solan 
goose."  Both  words  being  corrupted 
into  "  barnacle,"  it  was  natural  to  look 
for  an  identity  of  nature  in  the  two 
creatures,  so  it  was  given  out  that  the 
'goose  was  the  ott'sijriug  of  the  limpet. 
Gerard,  in  1636,  sjjieaks  of  "broken 
pieces  of  old  ships  on  which  is  found 
certain  spume  or  froth,  which  in  time 
breedeth  into  shells,  and  the  fish  which 
is  hatched  therefrom  is  iu  shape  and 
habit  like  a  bird." 

Barnacles.  Placemen  who  stick  to 
their  ofiices  but  do  little  work,  like  the 
barnacles  which  live  on  the  shiiJ  but 
impede  its  progress. 

"The  roduud;ints  would  l>e  '  Biirnacles '  witli  a 
veusjeaiioe  .  .  .  and  the  work  lie  aU  the  worse 
done  lor  tliese  Xanacn-ow."— Nineteenth  Ceiitmy 
CAiit'USt,  l^s.s,  p.  L'SOJ. 

Barnacles.  Spectacles,  or  rather 
reading-glasses ;  so  called  because  in 
shape  they  resemble  the  twitchers  used 
by  farriers  to  keep  under  restraint  unruly 
horses  during  the  process  of  bleeding, 
dressing,  or  shoeing.  This  instrument, 
formerly  called  a  baroacle,  consisting  of 
two  branches  joined  at  one  end  by  a 
hinge,  was  fixed  on  the  horse's  nose. 
Dr.  Latham  considers  the  word  a  cor- 
ruption of  bhwch's  (double-eyes),  Latin, 
dill  IIS  ociihis.  Another  suggestion  is 
"binnacle,"  the  case  on  board  &h\\>  in 
which  the  steering  compass  is  placed, 
illuminated  when  it  is  dark  by  a  lamp. 

Barnardine.  A  reckless,  dissolute 
fellow,  "fearless  of  what's  past,  present, 
and  to  come."     (Shakespeare:  Measure 

for  Measure.) 

Barn-burners.  Destructives,  who, 
like  the  Dutchman  of  story,  would  burn 
down  their  barns  to  rid  themselves  of 
the  rats. 

Barnet.  An  ejiicure  who  falls  in 
love  with,  and  marries,  a  lady  on  account 
of  her  skill  in  dressing  a  dish  of  stewed 
carp.  {Edward,  a  novel  by  Dr.  John 
Moore,  1796.) 

Barnwell  {Gcorric).  The  chief  cha- 
racter iu  a  prosn  tragedy,  so  called,  by 
George  Lillo.  He  was  a  London  appren- 
tice, who  fell  in  with  a  wanton  in  Shore- 
ditch,  named  Sarah  Millwood,  whom  he 
visited,  and  to  whom  he  gave  £200  of  his 
master's  money,  and  ran  awa}^  He  ue.xt 
robbed  his  uncle,  a  rich  grazier  at  Lud- 
low, and  beat  out  his  brains.  Having 
spent  the  money,  Sarah  turned  him  out 


of  doors,  and  each  informed  against  the 
other.  Sarah  Millwood  and  George 
Barnwell  were  both  hanged.  (Lillo, 
1693-1739.) 

Baro-Devel.  The  great  god  of  the 
gil^sies.     His  son  is  named  Alako. 

Baron  properly  means  a  man  (Old 
High  German,  haro).  It  was  a  term 
applied  to  a  serving- soldier,  then  to  a 
miUtary  chief,  and  ultimately  to  a  lord. 
The  reverse  of  this  is  seen  in  our  word 
slave  (a  servile  menial),  which  is  the 
Slavonic  word  slav  (noble,  illustrious). 
Baroiies  vei  rarroiies  dlcinitur  serrl  mili- 
lii/ii,  qui  utiquc  stiiltissiitii  siintservi  ride- 
lieet  siiiltoruni.    (^Scholiast.)    {See  Idiot.) 

Baron  Bung.  Mine  host,  master  of 
the  beer  bung. 

Baron  Munchausen  (pron.  Moo/ui- 
kow'-zn).  Said  to  be  a  satire  on  Bruce, 
the  Abyssinian  traveller,  to  whom  the 
work  was  dedicated.  The  author  was 
Easjie,  a  Geiman  fugitive  from  the 
officers  of  justice,  living  iu  Cornwall 
(1785).  The  chief  incidents  were  com- 
piled from  various  sources,  such  as  the 
Mendu'cia  Ridie'iila  of  J.  P.  Lange ; 
Lucian's  True  History  of  Things  J)is- 
corered  in  the  Moon  :  liahehiis  ;  and  the 
Folhe'to  dc  Amhas  Lis'hoa. 

Baron  of  Beef.  Two  sirloins  left 
imcut  at  the  backbone.  The  huroii  is  the 
backjjart  of  the  ox,  called  in  Danish,  the 
rug.  Jocosely  said  to  be  a  pun  ujion 
baron  and  sir  loin. 

Barons'  War  {The).  An  historical 
poem  by  Michael  Drayton  (1603). 

"Tlie  iiictures  of  Men  timer  and  tlie  queen,  and 
of  Edward's  onirauce  into  the  castle,  are  splendid 
and  spirited."— C'((i»;*tK. 

Barrack  Hack  (The).  A  lady  who 
hangs  on  the  sleeve  of  a  military  officer, 
attends  all  bnrrack  fetes  of  every  descrip- 
tion, and  is  always  ready  to  get  up  a 
dance,  dinner,  or  picnic,  to  please  the 
officers  on  whom  she  dances  attendance. 

Barracks  means  huts  made  of  the 
branches  of  trees  (Gaelic,  barr,  the  top 
of  anything;  barrach,  the  tojj-branchc; 
of  trees ;  barraehad,  a  hut  made  oi 
branches).  Our  word  is  plmal,  indica- 
tive of  the  whole  collection ;  but  the 
French  baraque  is  singular.  (-S't't'E.  K.  S.) 

Barratry  or  Barretrg.  Qui  fait 
barat,  bet  rat  liii  vient  (French).  With 
what  measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be 
measured  to  you  again.  Barratry  is 
false  faith  to  one's  employers.  It  is  a 
sea  term,  and  means  the  commission  of 
a  fraud  on  the  owners  or  insurers  of  a 


Barrel  Fever 


90 


Barristers'  Bags 


ship  by  the  captain  or  the  crew.  The 
fraud  may  consist  of  many  phases,  such 
as  deserting  the  ship,  sinking  her,  falsi- 
f3'ing  her  cargo,  etc.  The  French  have 
other  proverbs  to  the  same  effect :  as. 
La  t richer ie  revient  presque  ionjours  d  son 
maitre.  "He  made  a  pit  and  ...  is 
fallen  into  the  ditch  which  he  made. 
His  mischief  shall  return  upou  his  own 
head."  (P-rialm  vii.  U,  1.5,  16.) 

Barrel  Fever.  Intoxication  or  ill- 
ness from  intemi)erance  in  drink. 

Barren's  Blues.  The  4th  Foot; 
so  called  from  the  colour  of  their  facings, 
and  William  Barrell,  colonel  of  the 
regiment  (1734-1739).  Now  called  "The 
King's  Own  (Royal  Lancaster  Regi- 
ment)." They  were  called  "Lions" 
from  their  badge.  The  Lion  of  Emjland. 

Barrette.  Farlcr  a  la  hnrrcitc  (French) . 
To  give  one  a  thump  o'  the  head.      The 
word  harrdtc  means  the  cap  worn  by 
the  lower  orders. 
'" Et  luiii.  je  iwunais  Meu  parler  a  ta  banette." 
Muliire:  L' Avarc. 

It  is  also  used  to  signify  the  ordinary 
birretta  of  ecclesiastics  and  (probably) 
of  French  lawyers.  II  a  rc<;H  Ic  chapcati 
or  la  barrette.  He  has  been  made  a 
cardinal. 

"  Le  iiape  lui  envoyait  la  barrette,  mais  elle  ne 
scivit  iiu'  a  Ie  faire  mmirir  cardiual."— VoHoiic; 
.S  h-tc  da  Louis  XIV.,  cliap.  xx.xix. 

Barricade  (3  syl.).  To  block  up. 
Tlie  tenu  rose  in  France  in  1588,  when 
Henri  de  Guise  returned  to  Paris  in 
defiance  of  the  king's  order.  The  king 
sent  for  his  Swiss  Guards,  and  the 
Parisians  tore  up  the  pavement,  threw 
chains  across  the  streets,  and  piled  up 
barrels  filled  with  earth  and  stones, 
behind  which  they  shot  down  the  Swiss 
as  they  passed  through  the  streets.  The 
French  for  barrel  is  barriquc,  and  to 
barricade  is  to  stop  up  the  streets  with 
these  barrels. 

The  da>/  of  the  Barricades  : 

(1)  May  ■l2th,  1588,  when  the  people 
forced  Henri  III.  to  flee  from  Paris. 

(2)  August  oth,  1648,  the  beginning 
of  the  Fronde  War. 

(3)  July  27th,  1830,  the  first  day  of 
Ie  /jra))d  fi'inain  wliich  drove  Charles  X. 
from  the  throne. 

(4)  February  24th,  1848,  which  drove 
Louis  Philippe  to  abdicate  and  flee  to 
England. 

(5)  June  23rd,  1848,  when  Affre, 
Archbishop  of  Paris,  was  shot  in  his 
attempt  to  (piell  the  insurrection. 

(6)  December  2nd,  1851,  the  day  of 
the  coup  d^etat,  when  Louis  Xapoleou 


made  his  appeal  to  the  people  for  're- 
election to  the  Presidency  for  ten  years. 

Barrier  Treaty,  November  5th,  1715, 
by  whicli  the  Dutch  reserved  the  right  of 
holding  garrisons  in  certain  fortresses  of 
the  Spanish  Netherlands. 

Bar  rikin.  Jargon,  words  not  under- 
stood. (Old  French,  baracan,  from  the 
Breton,  hara  'jirijii,  "white  bread," 
taken  as  a  type  of  barbarous  words ; 
modern  French,  baraf/onin,  gibberish.) 

Barring-out.  A  practice  of  barring 
the  master  out  of  the  schoolroom  in 
order  to  dictate  terms  to  him.  It  was 
once  common,  but  is  now  numbered 
with  past  customs.  Miss  Edgeworth  has 
a  tale  so  called. 

Barrister.  One  admitted  to  plead 
at  the  bar  ;  one  who  has  been  "called 
to  the  bar."  The  bar  is  the  rail  which 
divides  the  counsel  from  the  audience, 
or  the  i^lacc  thus  enclosed.  Tantamount 
to  the  rood-screen  of  a  church,  which 
separates  the  chancel  from  the  rest  of 
the  building.  Both  these  are  relics  of 
the  ancient  notion  that  the  laity  are  an 
inferior  order  to  the  privileged  class. 

V  A  silk  gown  or  bencher  jjleads 
within  the  bar,  a  stuff  gown  or  outer 
ban-ister  pleads  without  the  bar. 

An  Outer  or  Utter  Barrister.  This 
phrase  alludes  to  an  ancient  custom 
observed  in  courts  of  law,  when  certain 
barristers  were  allowed  to  jilead  ;  but 
not  being  benchers  (king's  counsel  or 
sergeants-at-law)  they  took  their  seats 
' '  at  the  end  of  the  forms  called  the 
bar."  The  Utter  Banister  comes  next 
lo  a  bencher,  and  all  barristers  inferior 
to  theL'tter  Barristers  are  termed  "Inner 
BaiTisters." 

V  The  whole  society  is  di\nded  into 
three  ranks  :  Benchers,  Letter  Barristers, 
and  Inner  Bamsters. 

An  Inner  Barrister.  A  baiTister  in- 
ferior in  grade  to  a  Bencher  or  Utter 
Banister. 

A  Revising  Barrister.  One  ai3j)ointed 
to  revise  the  lists  of  electors. 

A  Vacation  Barrister.  One  newly 
called  to  the  bar,  who  for  three  years 
has  to  attend  in  "long  A'acation." 

Barristers'  Bags.  In  the  Common 
Law  bar.  barristers'  bags  are  either  red 
or  dark  blue.  Red  bags  are  reserved  for 
Queen's  Counsel  and  sergeants  :  but  a 
stuff  gownsman  may  cany  one  "  if  pre- 
sented with  it  by  a  silk. "  Only  red  bags 
may  be  taken  into  Common  Law  Courts  ; 
blue   bags  must  be  carried  no   farther 


Barristers'  Gowns 


100 


Bas  Bleu 


than  the  robing  room.    In  the  Chancery 
Courts  the  etiquette  is  not  so  strict. 

Barristers'  Gowns.  ' '  Utter  barns  - 
ters  wear  a  stuff  or  bombazine  gown, 
and  the  puckered  material  between  the 
shoulders  of  tlie  gown  is  all  that  is  now 
left  of  the  iiurse  into  which,  in  early 
days,  the  successful  litigant  .  .  .  dropped 
his  .  .  .  pecuniary  tribute  .  .  .  for 
services  rendered  "  (JVofcs  and  Queries, 
11  March,  1893,  p.  121).  The  fact  is 
that  the  counsel  was  supposed  to  appear 
merely  as  a  friend  of  the  litigant.  Even 
now  he  caimot  recover  his  fees. 

Barry  Cornwall,  poet.  A  noiii  de 
phone  of  Bryan  Waller  Procter.  It  is 
an  anagram  of  his  name.     (1788-1871.) 

Barsa'nians.  Heretics  who  arose  in 
the  sixtli  century.  They  made  their 
sacrifices  consist  ]n  taking  wheat  flour 
on  the  tip  of  their  first  finger,  and 
cairj'ing  it  to  their  mouth. 

Bar-sur-Aube  (Prcrot).  Jc  ve  rou- 
flrais  jHd  t'tir  roi,  si  fetais  prh'ot  de 
liar-sxr-Auhc  (French).  I  should  not 
care  to  be  king,  if  I  were  Provost  of 
Bar-sur-Aube  [the  most  lucrative  and 
honourable  of  all  the  provostships  of 
Frauce].  Almost  the  same  idea  is  ex- 
pressed in  the  words 

"  And  often  to  our  comfort  we  sliall  find, 
The  sliai-ded  beetle  in  a  safer  liold 
Than  is  the  full-winged  eagle." 

Almost  to  the  same  effect  Pope  says  : 

"  And  more  tnie  jo.v  Marcellns  exiled  feels, 
Tliau  C;rsar  with  a  c-enate  at  his  heels." 

V  See  Castle  of  Bungay. 

Bartholo.  A  doctor  in  the  comedies 
of  Le  Mariaye  de  lur/aro,  and -Le  Bnibicr 
dc  ScriUe,  by  Beaumarchais. 

Barthol'omew  {St.).  The  symbol 
of  this  saint  is  a  knife,  in  allusion  to  the 
knife  with  which  he  was  flayed  alive. 

Sf.  BartholouH'iv's  Ihtrj,  August  24th. 
Probably  Bartholomew  is  the  apostle 
called  "  Nathanael "  by  St.  John  the 
Evangelist  (i.  45-51). 

Massacre  of  St.  Bartholomcu-.  The 
slaughter  of  the  French  Protestants  in 
the  reign  of  Charles  IX.,  begun  on  St. 
Bartholomew's  Day,  i.e.  between  the 
24th  and  25th  August,  1572.  It  is  said 
that  30,000  persons  fell  in  this  dreadful 
per.secution. 

Bartholome'w  Fair.  Held  in  West 
Smithfield  (1133-1855)  on  St.  Bartholo- 
mew's Day. 

A  llnrt//o/o)iieii'  doll.  A  tawdry,  over- 
dressed woman  ;  like  a  flashy,  bespangled 
doll  offered  for  sale  at  Bartholomew 
Fair. 


A  Bartlwlomor  pig.  A  very  fat 
person.  At  Bartholomew  Fair  one  of 
the  chief  atti'actions  used  to  be  a  pig, 
roasted  whole,  and  sold  piping  hot. 
Falstaff  calls  himself, 

'■  A  little  tid.\  I5iirtliolomew  boar-pig."'— 2  Ucnry 
IV.\\.A. 

Barthram's  Dirge  (in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  Border  Mliistreh;/).  Sir  Noel 
Paton,  iu  a  private  letter,  says:  "The 
subject  of  this  dirge  was  communi- 
cated to  Sir  Walter  as  a  genuine 
fragment  of  the  ancient  Border  Muse 
by  his  friend  Mr.  Siu'tees,  who  is  in 
reality  its  author.  The  ballad  has  no 
foundation  iu  history ;  and  the  fair 
lady,  her  lover,  and  the  nine  brothers, 
are  but  the  creation  of  the  poet's  fancy." 
Sir  Noel  adds :  "I  never  painted  a 
picture  cf  this  subject,  though  I  have 
often  thought  of  doing  so.  The  engrav- 
ing which  appeared  in  the  Art  Journal 
was  executed  without  my  concurrence 
from  the  oil  sketch,  still,  I  presume,  in 
the  collection  of  Mr.  Pender,  the  late 
M.P.,  by  whom  it  was  brought  to  the  Ex- 
hibition of  the  Royal  Scottish  Academy 
here"  (at  Edinburgh)  November  19th, 
1806. 

Bartol'do.  A  lich  old  miser,  who 
died  of  fear  and  penurious  self-denial. 
Fazio  rifled  his  treasures,  and,  being 
accu.sed  by  his  own  wife  Bianca,  was 
jjut  to  death.     {Dean  Milinau  :  Fazio.) 

Bartole  (2  syl.).  Ife  knoics  J/is  ^'Bar- 
tole  "  as  ircll  as  a  cordelier  his  "  iJormi  " 
(French).  Bartole  was  an  Italian  lawyer, 
born  in  tlmbria  (1313-1356),  whose  autho- 
rity amongst  French  barristers  is  equal 
to  that  of  Blackstone  with  us.  The  cor- 
deliers or  Franciscans  were  not  great  at 
preaching,  and  jjerhaps  for  this  reason 
used  a  collection  called  Doriiii,  contain- 
ing the  best  specimens  of  the  fourteenth 
and  fifteenth  centuries.  This  compila- 
tion was  called  iJanni  from  the  first 
word  in  the  book.  The  compilation  is 
anonymous. 

Bartolist.  One  skilled  in  law.  {See 
aba  re.) 

Harzil'lai  (3  syl.).  The  Duke  of 
Ormond,  a  friend  and  staunch  adherent 
of  Charles  II.  The  allusion  is  to  Bar- 
zillai,  who  assisted  David  when  he  was 
expelled  by  Absalom  from  his  kingdom 
(2Sam.  xvii.  27-29). 
"Barzillal     crowned    with    hfinonrs    and    with 


In  exile  with  his  podlike  jirince  he  monrned. 
For  him  lie  suffered,  and  with  him  returned." 
Drydin :  Absalom  and  Achitaphel,  1.  .117--4 

Bas  Bl^u.    {Sec  Blue  Stocking.) 


Base 


101 


Bass 


Base.  The  basis,  or  that  on  which 
an  animal  walks  (Greek,  baino,  to  go, 
and  basis,  a  footstep).  The  foot  is 
the  foundation — hence,  base  of  a  pillar, 
etc.  It  is  also  the  lowest  part,  and 
hence  the  notion  of  worthless.  Bass  in 
music  (Italian,  basso)  is  the  lowest  part, 
or  the  part  for  the  lowest  compass  of 
voice. 

Base  Tenure.  Holding  by  cojiy  of 
court-roll,  in  opposition  to  freeholders. 

Base  of  Operation,  in  war.  That 
ii,  a  fortitied  or  otherwise  secure  spot, 
ivhere  the  magazines  of  all  sorts  can  be 
formed,  whence  the  army  can  derive 
stores,  and  upon  which  (in  case  of 
reverse)  it  can  fall  back.  If  a  fleet,  it  is 
called  a  movuble  base :  if  a  fortified  or 
other  immovable  spot,  it  is  called  ajixfd 
base.  The  line  from  such  a  base  to  the 
object  auned  at  is  called  "the  Line  of 
Operation." 

Bashaw".  An  arrogant,  domineering 
man  ;  so  called  fronx  the  Turkish  vice- 
roy's and  provincial  governors,  each  of 
whom  bears  the  title  of  basclia  (pacha). 

^L  thrce-tailfd  baslunv.  A  beglerbeg 
or  prince  of  princes  among  the  Turks, 
having  a  standard  of  three  horse-tails 
borne  before  him.  The  next  iu  rank  is 
the  bashaw  with  two  tails,  and  then  the 
bej',  who  has  only  one  horse-tail. 

Basil  ian  Monks.  Monks  of  the  Order 
of  !-'t.  Basil,  who  lived  in  the  fourth 
century.  This  Oi'der  has  produced  14 
jjopes,  1,80.5  bi.shops,  3,010  abbots,  and 
11,08-3  martyrs. 

Basilica.  Originally  the  com-t  of 
th'j  Athenian  archon,  called  the  basilcits, 
who  used  to  give  judgment  in  the  stoa 
basililce.  At  Rome  these  courts  of 
justice  had  theii-  nave,  aisles,  iJorticoes, 
aud  tribunals ;  so  that  when  used  for 
Christian  worship  very  little  alteration 
was  needed.  The  church  of  St.  John 
Lat'erau  at  Eome  was  an  ancient  basiUca. 

Basilics  or  Basilica.  A  digest  of 
laws  begun  by  the  Byzantine  emperor 
Basilius  in  867,  aud  completed  by  his 
son  Leo,  tlie  philosoj)her,  in  880. 

Basilid'ians.  A  sect  of  Gnostic 
heretics,  followers  of  Basilides,  an 
Alexandrian  Gnostic,  who  taught  that 
from  the  unborn  Father  "Mind"  was 
begotten;  from  Mind  proceeded  "The 
Word"  ;  from  the  Word  or  Lo(/os 
pi'oceeded  "  L'nderstanding  "  ;  from  Un- 
derstanding "Wisdom"  and  "Power"  ; 
from  Wisdom  and  Power  "Excellen- 
cies,"     "  Princes,"      and      "  Angels," 


the  agents  which  created  heaven. 
Next  to  these  high  mightinesses  come 
365  celestial  beings,  the  chief  of  whom 
is  Abraxas  {q.v.),  and  each  of  whom  has 
his  special  heaven.  What  we  call  Christ 
is  what  the  Basilidians  tei-m  'The  Jirst- 
bcgotten  ^' Mind.'''' 

Basilisco.  A  l)raggart ;  a  character 
iu  an  old  play  entitled  Solijiiian  and 
Ferscda.  Shakespeare  makes  the  Bas- 
tard say  to  his  mother,  who  asks  him 
why  he  boasted  of  his  ill-birth,  "Knight, 
knight,  good  mother,  Basilisco-like" — 
i.e.  my  boasting  has  made  me  a  knight. 
{King  John,  i.  1.) 

Basilisk.  The  king  of  serpents 
(Greek,  basilens,  a  king),  supposed  to 
have  the  power  of  ' '  looking  any  one 
dead  on  whom  it  fixed  its  eyes."  Hence 
Di'yden  makes  Clytus  say  to  Alexander, 
"  Nay,  frown  uot  so  ;  you  cannot  look 
me  dead. "  This  creature  is  called  a  king 
from  having  on  its  head  a  mitre-shaped 
crest.  Also  called  a  cockatrice,  and 
fabulously  alleged  to  be  hatched  by  a 
seii^eut  from  a  cock's  egg. 

"  Like  a  hoar 
Pluiigiiii?  liis  tiisk  in  iiiHStiff's  fe'iire  ; 
Or  l)asilisk,  when  roused,  wliose  lireatli, 
Teeth,  stiug,  and  e.\  eSalls  all  are  death." 

KiiKj:  Art  0/ Lu vc, 

Basket.  To  be  left  in  the  hasket. 
Neglected  or  uncared  for.  Left  in  the 
waste-basket. 

'I'o  (jive  a  basket.  To  refuse  to  marry. 
In  Germany  a  basket  [korb'X  is  fixed  on 
the  roof  of  one  who  has  been  jilted,  or 
one  who,  after  long  courtship,  cannot 
persuade  the  lady  courted  to  become  his 
wife. 

Baso'chians.  Clerks  of  the  basilica  or 
palace.  When  the  Kings  of  France  in- 
habited the  "Palace  of  Justice,"  the 
judges,  advocates,  i^roctors,  and  lawyei-s 
went  by  the  common  name  of  the  clcrcs 
de  la  hasoehe ;  subsequently  (in  1303) 
divided  into  "  Clerks  of  the  Palace,"  and 
"Clerks  of  the  Chatelet."  The  chief  of 
the  basochians  was  called  Lc  roi  de  la 
basochc,  aud  had  his  coiu't,  coin,  and 
grand  officers.  He  reviewed  his  "sub- 
jects "  every  year,  and  administered 
justice  twice  a  week.  Henri  III.  sup- 
pressed the  title  of  the  chief,  and  trans- 
ferred all  his  functions  and  privileges 
to  the  Chancelloi'. 

Bass.  Matting  made  of  bast,  that  is 
the  lime  or  linden  tree.  Dutch,  bast, 
bark  ;  Swedish,  basta,  to  bind  ;  so  called 
because  used  for  binding.  "Ribbons 
from  the  linden  tree  give  a  wreath  no 
chaims   to    me."       The    shepherds    of 


Bastard 


102 


Bath.  Stone 


Caniiola  make  a  cloth  of  the  outer  bark. 
Tlie  inner  bark  is  made  into  Russian 
matting,  and  is  serviceable  to  gardeners 
for  packing,  tying  ujJ  plants,  iirotectiug 
trees,  etc.  Other  materials  are  now 
used  for  the  same  purjioses,  and  for 
hassocks,  etc.,  but  the  generic  word  hass 
designates  both  bast -bark  and  all  its 
imitations. 

Bastard.  Any  sweetened  wine, 
but  more  correctly  applied  to  a  sweet 
Spanish  wine  (white  or  brown)  made  of 
the  bastard  muscadine  grape. 

"I  will  pledge  you  willingly  in  a  c\\\\  <if 
liastarJ."— .S'(V  Wultci- Scott:  Kenilicorth,  i:\m\K  iii. 

Ba'ste  (1  sy].).  Ill  baste  yoxr  jacket 
for  i/oa,  i.e.  cane  you.  /'//  ffire  i/ou  a 
thorough  /lastiiif/,  i.e.  heating.  (Spanish, 
bastoii,  a  stick ;  Italian,  baslone  ;  French, 
baton.) 

Ba'stille  means  simj^ly  a  building 
(French,  bastir,  now  bdttr,  to  build). 
Charles  V.  built  it  as  a  royal  chateau ; 
Philippe-Auguste  enclosed  it  with  a  high 
wall ;  St.  Louis  administered  justice  in 
the  liark,  under  the  oak-trees  ;  Philippe 
do  Valois  demolished  the  old  chateau 
and  commenced  a  new  one ;  Louis  XL 
first  used  it  as  a  state  i^rison ;  and  it  was 
demolished  by  the  rabble  in  the  French 
Revolution,  July  14th,  1789. 

Bastina'do.  A  beating  (Italian, 
ha  stone ;  French,  baston,  now  baton,  a 
stick).  The  Chinese,  Turks,  and  Per- 
sians punish  offenders  by  beating  them 
on  the  soles  of  the  feet.  The  Turks  call 
the  punishment  zarb. 

Bastion  {A),  in  fortification,  is  a 
work  having  two  faces  and  two  flanks, 
all  tlie  angles  of  which  are  salient, 
that  is,  pointing  outwards  towards  the 
country.  The  line  of  rampart  which 
joins  together  the  flanks  of  two  bastions 
is  technically  called  a  curtain. 

Ristiiins  in  fcirtifications  were  invented  in  ]4,s0 
l)y  Acbmet  Pasba  ;  but  San  Micliaeli  of  Verona, 
in  1.527,  is  said  by  Maffei  and  Vasari  to  have  been 
tlie  real  inventor. 

Bat.  Harlequin's  lath  wand  (French, 
battc,  a  wooden  sword). 

To  carrij  out  one''s  bat  (in  cricket).  Not 
to  be  "  out "  when  the  time  for  drawing 
the  stumps  has  arrived. 

OJ^'  Ji  is  own  bat.  By  his  own  exertions ; 
on  his  own  account.  A  cricketer's 
phrase,  meaning  runs  won  by  a  single 
player. 

Bat-horses  and  Bat-men.  Bat-horses 
are  those  which  carry  officers'  baggage 
during  a  campaign  (French,  bat,  a  pack- 
saddle).  Bat-men  are  those  who  look 
after  the  pack-horses. 


Batavia.  The  Netherlands ;  so  called 
from  the  Bata'vi,  a  Celtic  tribe  who 
dwelt  there. 

"  Flat  Bata\  ia's  willowy  groves." 

Wordsicorlli . 

Bate  me  an  Ace.    {-Sec  Bolton.) 

Bath.  Knif/hts  of  the  Bath.  This 
name  is  derived  from  the  ceremony  of 
bathing,  which  used  to  be  practised  at 
the  inauguration  of  a  knight,  as  a  symbol 
of  purity.  The  last  knights  created  in 
this  ancient  fonn  were  at  the  coronation 
of  Charles II.  in  1661.  G.C.B.  stands  for 
Grand  Cross  of  the  Bath  (the  first-class) ; 
K.C.B.  Knifht  Commander  of  tlic  Bath 
(the  second  class)  ;  C.B.  Companio)i  of 
the  Bath  (the  third  class). 

Kinf/  of  Bath.  Richard  Nash,  gener- 
ally called  Beau  Nash,  a  celebrated 
master  of  the  ceremonies  at  Bath  for 
fifty-six  y€ars.     (1674-1761.) 

There,  go  to  Bath  irith  gon  !  Don't 
talk  nonsense.  Insane  persons  used  to 
be  sent  to  Bath  for  the  benefit  of  its 
mineral  waters.  The  implied  reproof  is, 
what  you  say  is  so  silly,  you  ought  to  go 
to  Bath  and  get  j'our  head  shaved. 

Bath  Brick.  Alluvial  matter  made 
in  the  form  of  a  brick,  and  used  for 
cleaning  knives  and  jiolishing  metals. 
It  is  not  made  at  Bath,  but  at  Bridg- 
water, being  dredged  from  the  river 
Parrett,  which  runs  through  Bridgwater. 

Bath  Chair  (vY).  A  chair  mounted 
on  wheels  and  used  for  invalids.  Much 
used  at  Bath,  frequented  by  invalids  for 
its  hot  R23rings. 

Bath  Metal.  The  same  as  Pinch- 
beck {q.v.).  An  alloj'  consisting  of  six- 
teen parts  copper  and  five  of  zinc. 

Bath  Post.  A  letter  paper  with  a 
highly  -  glazed  surface,  used  by  the 
highly-  fashionable  visitors  of  Bath  when 
that  watering-place  was  at  its  jn-ime. 
{See  Post.)  Since  the  introduction  of 
the  penny  post  and  envelope  system, 
this  jjaper  has  gone  out  of  general  use. 

Bath  Shillings.  Silver  tokens  coined 
at  Bath  in  1811-1812,  and  issued  for 
4s.,  for  2s.,  and  for  Is.,  by  C.  Culver- 
house,  J.  Orchard,  and  J.  Phijips. 

Bath  Stone.  A  species  of  limestone, 
used  for  building,  and  found  in  the 
Lower  Oolite,  in  Wiltshire  and  Somer- 
setshire. It  is  easily  wrought  in  the 
quarry,  but  hardens  on  exposure  to  the 
air.  Called  "Bath"  stone  because 
several  of  the  quarries  ai-e  near  Bath, 
in  Somersetshire. 


Bath 


103 


Battle 


Bath  {M(ijur).  A  poor,  liigh -minded 
officer,  who  tries  to  conceal  his  poverty 
by  bold  speech  and  ostentatious  bearing. 
Colman's  Poor  Gcntlcmun  (Lieutenant 
Worthingtou)  is  a  similar  character. 
{FiolduKj  :  Amelia  (a  novel)  17ol.) 

Bath-kol  {fhdif/hter  of  the  voice).  A 
sort  of  divination  common  among  the 
ancient  Jews  after  the  gift  of  prophecj' 
had  ceased.  When  an  appeal  was  made 
to  Bath-kol,  the  first  words  uttered  after 
the  appeal  were  considered  oracular. 

Bathos  [Greek,  hathox,  depth].  A 
ludicrous  descent  from  grandiloquence 
to  commonplace.     A  literary  mermaid. 

"Huinano  capiti  cervicem  iiictdi-  eiiuiiiain 
Jiiii,i,'eie  SI  velit  ...  lit  tiiriiiteratiiim 
DesiiiHt  in  piscem  nuilier  loniuisa  siiiierne." 

"  Piii'turiunt  iiumtes,  nascetiu'  ridiciilus  imis." 
Horace:  De  Arte  I'oetica,  line  13U. 

A  good  example  is  the  well-known 

couplet : 

"  Anil  tlidu,  Dalliousie,  tbe  grea't  f,'i»I  of  war, 
Jiieutenaiit-general  to  the  earl  of  Mar." 

Bath'sheba.  The  Duchess  of  Ports- 
moutli,  a  favourite  court  lady  of  Charles 
II.  The  allusion  is  to  the  wife  of  Uri'ah 
the  Hittito,  criminally  beloved  by  David 
(2  Sam.  xi.).  The  Duke  of  Monmouth 
says : 

"  My  fatlirr,  whom  with  reveroiice  \fit  1  name, 
fliariiied  into  case,  is  cari'lfss  of  los  fame; 
Ami,  l.ril.i-.l  with  iietty  sums  o£  foveii-'u  Kold, 
Is  u'rown  in  Jiatlislieiias  eiiil.rai'os  old." 
Driidiii :  Abauiuin  and  Achiloi'licl,  i.  707-lii. 

Bathyllus.  A  beautifid  boy  of 
Samos,  greatly  beloved  by  Polycriites 
the  tyrant,  and  by  the  poet  Anacreon. 
{See  Moracc :  Epistle  xiv.  9.) 

"To  them  [i.e.  the  esthetic  school]  the  boy- 
liooil  of  Bathyllus  is  of  more  moment  than  tlie 
manhood  of  Napoleon."— -IfoV/onfc ;  Tht  Sew  lli-pub- 
iic,  hook  iv.  chap.  1. 

Batiste.  The  fabric  is  so  called  from 
Baptiste  of  Cambrai,  who  first  manu- 
factured it. 

Ba'trachomyomach ia  (pronounce 
Ba-trak'o-iii;i'o-)nak'ifi).  A  storm  in  a 
puddle  ;  much  ado  about  nothing.  The 
word  is  the  name  of  a  mock  heroic 
poem  in  Greek,  supposed  to  be  by  Pi'gres 
of  Caria,  and  means  The  Battle  of  the 
Frogs  and  Mice, 

Batta  or  liatt;/  (Hindu stance).  Per- 
quisites ;  wages.  Prajjerly,  an  allowance 
to  East  Indian  troops  in  the  field.  In 
garrison  they  are  put  on  half-batta. 

■'  He  W(nild  rather  li\e  on  half- pay  in  a  garrison 
that  could  hoast  of  a  lives-court,  than  vecetate 
on  full  hatta  where  there  wasnone."— G".  iJ.  Gleiij: 
Thomas  Mimro,  vol.  i.  chap.  Iv.  p.  2i'7. 

Battar,  Al  [the  Trenchanf].  One  of 
Maliomet's  swords,  confiscated  from  the 


Jews  when  tliey  were  exiled  from  Me- 
dina. 

Battels.  Rations  or  "commons" 
allowed  to  students  at  the  University  of 
Oxford.     (To  batten,  to  feast.) 

Battel  Bills.  Buttery  bills  at  the 
universities.     {See  above.) 

Battersea.  Yoii  must  go  to  Buttersca 
to  get  yoitr  simples  cut.  A  reproof  to  a 
simjjleton,  or  one  wlio  makes  a  very 
foolish  observation.  The  market  gar- 
deners of  Battersea  used  to  grow  simples 
(medicinal  herbs),  and  the  London  apoth- 
ecaries went  there  to  select  or  cut  such 
as  they  wanted.     {See  Navioa.) 

Battle.  Professor  Creasy  says  there 
are  fifteen  decisive  battles ;  that  is, 
battles  wliich  have  decided  some  political 
change  :  B.C.  490,  Mar'athon  ;  413,  Syra- 
cuse ;  331,Arbe'la;  207,  Metau'rus  ;  the 
defeat  of  the  Romans  by  Varus,  9 ; 
Chalons,  a.d.  4o1  ;  Tours,  732;  Hastings, 
1066 ;  Joan  of  Arc's  victory  at  Orleans, 
1429;  the  Arma'da,  '  158S ;  Blenheim, 
1704;  Pultow'a,  1709;  Sarato'ga,  1777; 
Valmy,  1792;  and  Waterloo,  1815. 

Battle  royal.  A  certain  number  of 
cocks,  say  sixteen,  are  pitted  togetlier ; 
tlie  eight  victors  are  then  pitted,  then 
the  four,  and  last  of  all  the  two ;  and 
the  winner  is  victor  of  the  battle  roj'al. 
Meta]3horically,  the  term  is  appUed  to 
chess,  etc. 

Bottle  scenes.  Lo  Clerc  could  arrange 
on  a  small  piece  of  paper  not  larger  than 
one's  hand  an  army  of  20,000  men. 

The  Battle-painter  or  JJelle  Battaglic. 
{See  Michael  Angelo.) 

Battle  of  the  Books.  A  satire,  by  Dean 
Swift,  on  the  contention  among  literary 
men  whether  ancient  or  modern  authors 
were  the  better.  In  the  battle  the 
ancient  books  fight  against  the  modern 
books  in  St.  James's  Library. 

Battle  of  the  Giants  ;  i.e.  the  battle  of 
Marignan  {Ma-rin-yan')  in  1515,  when 
Fran(;ois  I.  won  a  complete  victory  over 
12,000  Swiss,  allies  of  the  Milanese. 

Battle  of  the  Herviiigs,  in  1429.  A 
sortie  made  by  the  men  of  Orleans, 
during  the  siege  of  their  citj%  to  inter- 
cept a  supply  of  salt  herrings  sent  to 
the  besiegers. 

Battle  of  the  Moat.  A  skirmish  or 
battle  between  Mahomet  and  Abti  Sofian 
(chief.of  the  Koreishites)  before  Medi'na  ; 
so  called  because  the  "ijroiihet"  had  a 
moat  dug  before  the  city  to  keeis  oi?  the 
invaders ;  and  in  the  moat  much  of  the 
fighting  took  place. 

Battle  of  tlie  Standard,  in  1138,  when 


Battle 


lOi 


Battus  paieront 


the  English  overthrew  the  Scotch,  at 
Northallerton,  in  Yorkshii-e.  The  stan- 
dard was  a  high  crucifix  borue  by  the 
English  on  a  wagon. 

liattle  of  the  Spurs  (1302),  in  which  the 
allied  citizens  of  Ghent  and  Bruges  won 
a  famous  victory  over  the  chivalry  of 
France  under  the  walls  of  Courtray. 
After  the  battle  more  than  700  gilt  spurs 
(worn  by  French  nobles)  were  gathered 
from  the  field. 

In  English  history  the  Battle  of  Guine- 
gate  (1513)  is  so  called,  "because  the 
French  spurred  their  horses  to  fiight, 
almost  as  soon  as  they  came  in  sight  of 
the  English  troops." 

A  close  battle.  A  naval  fight  at  "  close 
quarters,"  in  which  opposing  ships  en- 
gage each  other  side  by  side. 

A  line  of  battle.  The  position  of 
troops  drawn  u^j  in  battle  array.  At 
sea,  the  arrangement  formed  by  ships  in 
a  naval  engagement.  A  Une-of-battle 
s/i  ip  is  a  ship  fit  to  take  part  in  a  main 
attack.  Frigates  do  not  join  in  a 
general  engagement. 

A  pitched  battle.  A  battle  which  has 
been  planned,  and  the  ground  pitched  on 
or  chosen  beforehand,  by  both  sides. 

Half  the  battle.  Half  determines  the 
battle.  Thus,  "The  first  stroke  is  half 
the  battle,"  that  is,  the  way  in  which 
the  battle  is  begun  half  determines  what 
the  end  will  be. 

Trial  by  battle.  The  submission  of  a 
legal  suit  to  a  combat  between  the  liti- 
gants, under  the  notion  that  God  would 
defend  the  right.  It  was  legal  in  Eng- 
land till  the  nineteenth  century. 

JFaffer  of  Battle.  One  of  the  forms  of 
ordeal  or  appeal  to  the  judgment  of 
God,  in  the  old  Norman  courts  of  the 
kingdom.  It  consisted  of  a  personal  com- 
bat between  the  i)laintiff  and  the  defen- 
dant, in  the  presence  of  the  court  itself. 
Abolished  by  59  Geo.  III.  c.  46. 

Battle    of  the    Frogs   and    Mice 

i'J'he).     [See  Bateachomyomachia.] 

Battle  of  the  Kegs  (The).  A  mock- 
heroic  by  Francis  Hopkinson  (1738-1791). 
In  the  War  of  Independence  certain 
machines,  in  the  form  of  kegs,  charged 
with  gunpowder,  were  sent  down  the 
river  to  amioy  the  British  at  Philadel- 
phia. When  the  British  found  out  the 
nature  of  these  machines,  they  waged 
relentless  war  with  everything  they  saw 
fioating  about  the  river. 

Battle  of  the  Poets  (The).  A 
satirical  poem  by  John  [Sheffield],  Duke 
of     Buckingham,     in     which    a,ll    the 


versifiers  of  the  time  are  brought  into 
the  field  (1725). 

Battle  of  the  Whips.  The  Scythian 
slaves  once  rose  in  rebellion  against 
their  masters,  and  many  a  bloody  en- 
counter followed.  At  length,  one  of 
the  Scytliian  masters  said  to  his  fol- 
lowers :  Let  us  throw  away  our  spears 
and  swords,  and  figlit  in  future  with 
whips.  We  get  killed  by  the  former 
weapons  and  weakened.  So  in  the  next 
encounter  they  armed  themselves  with 
whips,  and  immediately  the  slaves  saw 
the  whips,  remembering  former  scourg- 
ings,  they  turned  tail  and  were  no  more 
trouble. 

Battle  (Sarah),  who  considered  whist 
the  business  of  life  and  literature  one  of 
the  relaxations.  When  a  young  gentle- 
man, of  a  literary  turn,  said  to  her  ho 
had  no  objection  to  unbend  his  mind  for 
a  little  time  by  taking  a  hand  with  her, 
Sarah  was  indignant,  and  declared  it 
worse  than  sacrilege  to  speak  thus  of 
her  noble  occuj)ation.  Whist  "  was  her 
life  business ;  her  duty  ;  the  thing  she 
came  into  the  world  to  do,  and  she  did 
it.  She  unbent  her  mind  afterwards 
over  a  book."     i^C.  Zaiiib :  Elia.) 

Battledore  (3  syl.)  means,  properly, 
a  baton  for  washing  linen  by  striking 
on  it  to  knock  out  the  dirt.  The  plan 
is  still  common  in  France.  The  word 
is  the  French  battoir,  a  beater  used 
by  washerwomen  ;  Portuguese,  Batidvr, 
Sjianish,  batidero,  a  wash-board. 

Battu.  Aatai/t  jjle/tre  vial  b<(tfa  que 
bien  battu  (French).  It  little  matters 
whether  stripes  are  given  maliciously  ov 
not,  as  they  smart  the  same.  Wliether 
misfortunes  come  from  God  or  Satan, 
they  are  misfortunes  still.  A  slight 
variant  is  "■  Autaiit  raat  bien  battu  que 
mal  battu,'"  which  means,  it  is  of  no 
consequence  whether  badly  beaten  or 
not,  enough  that  I  am  beaten ;  "  over 
shoes,  over  boots." 

Battu  de  fol  Oiseau  {FAre),  or 
"  etre  battu  de  V oiseau,''''  to  be  utterly 
dismayed ;  to  be  dazed.  The  allusion  is 
to  bird-catching  at  night,  when  a  candle 
or  lantern  is  held  up  before  the  birds 
aroused  from  their  sleej) ;  the  birds, 
being  dazed,  are  beaten  down  easily 
with  sticks. 

Battus  paieront  {Les).  Vjc  victis! 
Those  who   lose    must   pay   the  piper. 

"  Cest  le  loi  da,  pai/s  de  Beam  que  le 
battle  paie  Vamende.''^  Again,  "  Vest  la 
coutume   de   Lorris,    les    battus    pa'ieut 


Baubee 


105 


Bay 


V amende."     This  is  certainly  the  general 
custom  in  law  and  war. 

Baubee.    {See  Bawbee.) 

Bauble.  A.  fool  .s/w/ihi  »erer  hold  a 
hnnhle  iii  Ills  hand.  "  'Tis  a  foolish  bird 
that  fouls  its  own  nest."  The  bauble 
was  a  short  stick,  ornamented  with  ass's 
ears,  carried  by  licensed  fools.  (French, 
bahiole,  a  plaything  ;  Old  French,  hauhel, 
a  child's  toy.) 

//■  evcrii  fool  held  a  hauhle ,  fuel  ivonld 
he  dear.  The  ijroverb  indicates  that  the 
world  contains  so  many  fools  that  if  eacli 
had  a  separate  bauble  there  would  be 
but  little  wood  left  for  lighting  fires. 

To  deserre  the  li/iable.  To  be  so  foolish 
as  to  be  qualified  to  carry  a  fool's  em- 
blem of  office. 

Baucis.     {See  Philemon.) 

Ba'viad    {The).      A  merciless  satire 
by  GifFord  on  the  Delia  Cruscan  j)oetry, 
published    1791.       The    word    is    from 
Virgil's  Eelii(jiu\  iii.  9. 
He  iiia.v  with  foxes  pluiigl),  and  inilk  lie-aroats, 
Who  praises  Bavins  or  on  Miuviiis  dotes. 

E.  C.  B. 
Bavie'ca.    The  Cid's  horse. 

Ba'vius.    Any  bad  poet.     {See  Ba- 

VIAD.) 

"May  some  clinice  iKi'r.m  liless  each  grey  goose 
iliiill, 
M;iv  every  Ba\  ins  lia\  e  his  Biifn  still." 

/Vipc;  Prului/iie  tii  tin-  .Satires,  ti-lSKW. 

Bawbee. 

"  Wha'll  liire,  wha'll  liire,  wha'll  hire  me  ? 
Tliree  pliiniiis  niul  a  wallnii  for  ae  hawliee." 

The  tale  is  that  the  jieople  of  Kirk- 
niahoe  were  so  poor,  they  could  not 
afford  to  put  any  meat  into  their  broth. 
A  'cute  cobbler  invested  all  his  money 
in  buying  four  sheep-shanks,  and  when 
a  neighbour  wanted  to  make  mutton 
broth,  for  the  payment  of  one  halfpenny 
tlie  cobbler  would  "  plump  "  one  of  the 
sheep-shanks  into  the  boiling  water,  and 
give  it  a  "  wallop  "  or  whisk  round.  He 
then  wrapped  it  in  a  cabbage-leaf  and 
took  it  home.  TJiis  was  called  a  f/iistiu 
hone,  and  was  supposed  to  give  a  ricli 
"gust"  to  the  broth.  The  cobbler 
found  his  r/astiu  bone  very  profitable. 

Jenufs  haivbee.  Her  marriage  portion. 
The  word  means,  properly,  a  debased 
copper  coin,  equal  in  value  to  a  half- 
penny, issued  in  the  reign  of  James  V. 
of  Scotland.  (French,  bus  b'dlon,  de- 
based copper  money. ) 

V  The  word  "bawbee"  is  derived 
from  the  laird  of  Sillebawby,  a  mint- 
master.  Tliat  there  was  such  a  laird 
is  quite  certain  from  the  Treasurer's 
account,  September  7th,  151 1, "/«  argenio 


reecptis  a  Jaeobo  Atzinsone,  et  Alexandra 
Orok  dc  Sillebaiib)j  resjjeetire." 

Bawley  Boat  {A).  A  small  fishing- 
smack  used  on  t)>e  coasts  of  Kent  and 
Essex,  about  the  mouth  of  the  Thames 
and  Medway.  Bawleys  are  generally 
about  40  feet  long,  13  feet  beam,  o  feet 
draught,  and  from  15  to  20  tons 
measurement.  They  differ  in  rig  from 
a  cutter  in  having  no  booms  to  the 
mainsail,  which  is,  consequently,  easily 
brailed  up  when  working  the  trawl  nets. 
They  are  lialf-dccked,  with  a  wot  well 
to  keep  fish  alive. 

Bawtry.  Tike  the  saddler  of  Bawtrij, 
vho  teas  lianged  for  leaving  his  liquor 
(Yorkshire  proverb).  It  was  customary 
for  criminals  on  their  way  to  execution 
to  stop  at  a  certain  tavern  in  York  for 
a  "parting  draught."  llie  saddler  of 
Bawtry  refused  to  accej^t  the  liquor  and 
was  hanged.  If  he  had  stopj)ed  a  few 
minutes  at  the  tavern,  his  reprieve, 
which  was  on  the  road,  would  have 
arrived  in  time  to  save  his  life. 

Baxtcrians.  Those  who  entertain 
the  same  religious  views  as  Richard 
Baxter.  The  chief  points  are— (1)  That 
Christ  died  in  a  spiritual  sense  for  the 
elect,  and  in  a  general  sense  for  all ;  (2) 
that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  reproba- 
tion ;  (3)  that  even  saints  may  fall 
from  grace.  Dr.  Isaac  Watts  and  Dr. 
Doddridge  held  these  views. 

Bay. 

Sui)posed  to  be  an  antidote  against 
lightning,  because  it  was  the  tree  of 
Apollo.  Hence  Tibe'rius  and  some 
other  of  the  Roman  emperors  wore  a 
wreath  of  bay  as  an  amulet,  especially 
in  thunder-storms.     {I'ling.) 

"  Ueach  tlie  hays— 
I'll  tie  a  garland  here  ahont  his  head  ; 
'Twill  keep  iny  hoy  from  lightning." 

The  White  Devil. 

The  withering  of  a  bay-tree  was  sup- 
posed to  be  the  omen  of  a  death. 

"  'Tis  thonglit  the  king  is  dead.    We'll  not  stay— 
The  liay-trees  in  our  conntry  are  withered.' 

Shakespeare:  Richard  II.,  ii.  4. 

Croicned  icith  bays,  in  sign  of  victory. 
The  general  who  obtained  a  victory 
among  the  Romans  was  crowned  with  a 
wreath  of  bay  leaves. 

Bag.  The  reason  why  Apollo  and  a'l 
those  under  his  pi'otection  are  crowned 
with  bay  is  a  pretty  fable.  Daphne, 
daughter  of  the  river-god  Peueo.=,  in 
Thessaly,  was  very  beautiful  and  re- 
solved to  pass  her  life  in  perpetual 
virginity.     Apollo  fell  in  love  with  her, 


Bay  the  Moon 


lOfi 


Bead 


but  she  rejected  his  suit.  On  oue  occa- 
sion the  god  was  so  importunate  that 
Daphne  tied  from  liim  and  souglit  the 
protection  of  lier  father,  who  cliauged 
her  into  the  bay- tree.  The  gallant  god 
declared  henceforth  he  would  wear  bay 
leaves  on  his  brow  and  lyre  instead  of 
the  oak,  and  that  all  who  sought  his 
favour  eliould  follow  his  example. 

The  (pd'ot'' s  Bays.  The  2nd  Dragoon 
Guards ;  so  called  because  they  are 
mounted  on  bay  horses.  Now  called  The 
Q/(fcn's. 

Baij.  The  colour  of  a  horse  is  Varro's 
cqiiiis  badiiis,  given  by  Ainsworth  as, 
"  brown,  bay,  sorrel,  chestnut  colour." 
Coles  gives  the  same.  Our  bayard ; 
bright  bay,  light  bay,  blood  bay,  etc. 

Bay  the  Moon  {To).  To  bark  at  the 
inoon.  (French,  aboyer,  to  bark  at.) 
{'See  Bark.) 

Bay  Salt  is  salt  of  a  bay  colour.  It 
is  tlie  salt  of  sea-water  hardened  by  the 
heat  of  the  sun. 

Bayadere  {baJi-ya-dare).  A  dancing 
girl  dressed  in  Eastern  costume  ;  so  called 
fi-oni  the  hajadercs  of  India,  whose 
duty  is  to  dance  before  the  images  of  the 
gods ;  but  the  grandees  employ  similar 
dancers  for  their  private  amusements. 
The  word  is  a  corruption  of  the  Portu- 
guese hdiladcira. 

Bayard  {CJun-aUer),  Pierre  du  Terrail, 
a  celebrated  French  knight  (1470-1524). 
Le  clievaHer  sans  pair  et  sans  rcproche. 

The  British  Bayard.  Sir  Philip  Sidney. 
(lo54-1584.) 

The  Polish  Bai/ard.  Pxince  Joseph 
Poniatowski.     (1763-1814.), 

Bayard  of  the  East  {Th()  or  Of  the 
Indian  Arm  if.  Sir  James  Outram 
(1803-18(>3).  ' 

Bayard.  A  horse  of  incredible  swift- 
ness, belonging  to  the  four  sous  of 
Ay'mon.  If  only  one  of  the  sons 
mounted,  the  horse  was  of  the  ordinary 
size ;  but  if  all  four  mounted,  his  body 
became  elongated  to  the  requisite  length. 
The  name  is  used  for  any  valuable  or 
wonderful  horse,  and  means  a  "  high- 
bay"  {hay-ard).  {VillencHvc  :  Les 
Qiiatre-Fiiz  Ayiiion.)     {See  Horse.) 

Keep  Bayard  in  the  stable,  i.e.  keep 
what  is  of  value  under  lock  and  key. 
{See  a  bo  re.) 

Bold  as  Blind  Bayard.  Foolhardy. 
If  a  blind  horse  leaps,  the  chance  is  he 
will  fall  into  a  ditch.  Grose  mentions 
the  following  expression.  To  ride  bayard 
often  toes — "  Going  by  the  marrow-bone 
stage" — i.e.  walking. 


Bayar'do.  The  famous  steed  of 
Riiuildo,  which  once  belonged  to  Am'adis 
cf  Gaul.     {See  Horse.) 

Bayardo^s  Leap.  Three  stones,  about 
thirty  yards  apart,  near  Sleaford.  It 
is  said  that  Rinaldo  was  riding  on  his 
favourite  steed  Bayardo,  when  the 
demon  of  the  jilace  sprang  behind  him  ; 
but  the  animal  in  terror  took  three  tre- 
mendous leaps  and  unhorsed  the  fiend. 

Bayes,  in  the  Behearsal,  by  the  Duke 
of  Buckingham,  was  designed  to  satirise 
John  Dryden,  the  i^oet  laureate. 

Bayes's  Troops.  Dead  men  may  rise 
ayain,  like  Bayiss  troops,  or  the  sarayes 
in  the  Fantoci'ni  {Sonwthiny  Xeir).  In 
the  Rehearsal,  by  George  Yilliers,  Duke 
of  Buckingham,  a  battle  is  fought  be- 
tween foot-soldiers  and  great  hobby- 
horses. At  last  Drawcansir  kills  all  on 
both  sides.  Smith  then  asks  how  they 
are  to  go  off,  to  which  Bayes  replies, 
"As  they  came  on — upon  their  legs"; 
upon  which  they  all  jum^i  up  alive 
again. 

Bayeux  Tapestry.  Supposed  to 
be  the  work  of  Matilda,  wife  of  William 
the  Conqueror.  It  rejiresents  the  mis- 
sion of  Harold  to  the  duke,  and  all  the 
incidents  of  his  history  from  that  event 
till  his  death  at  Hastings  in  lOGG.  It  is 
called  Bayeux  from  the  place  where  it 
is  i^reserved.  A  drawing,  on  a  reduced 
scale,  of  this  curious  antique  is  preserved 
in  the  Guildhall  Library. 

Bayle  (2syl.).  Dances  of  the  common 
people  were  so  called  in  Spain,  in  ojipo- 
sition  to  the  stately  coui't  dances,  called 
danza.  The  Bayle  were  of  Moorish  in- 
vention, the  most  celebrated  being  La 
Sarabanda,  La  Chacona,  Las  Gambclas, 
and  7iV  Ilerinano  Bartolo. 

Bay'onet.  So  called  from  La  Bayo- 
nette,  a  lower  ridge  of  the  Montague 
d'Arrhune.  A  Basque  regiment,  early  in 
the  seventeenth  century,  running  short 
of  powder,  stuck  their  knives  into  their 
muskets,  and  charged  the  Spaniards  with 
success.  Some  derive  this  word  from 
Bayonne. 

Bayonets.  A  synonym  of  "  rank  and 
file,"  that  is,  privates  and  corporals  of 
infantry.  As,  "  the  number  of  bayonets 
was  25,000." 

"It  is  (>ii  the  l);»y<mets  that  a  Qiiai'ternaster- 
General  relies  for  his  working  and  fati.u'ue  iiavtiep." 
—Ifoicilt:  Hist,  of  Eiuj.  (year  1854,  ]).  IW).   , 

Bead  (Anglo-Saxon,  led,  a  prayer). 
When  little  balls  with  a  hole  through 
them  were  used  for  keeping  account  of 


Bead-house 


107 


Beans 


the  number  of  prayers  rejieated,  the 
term  was  applied  to  the  prayers  also. 
(_Sf('  Beadsman.) 

To  coiDit  oi/c^n  beads.  To  say  one's 
prayers.  In  the  Catholic  Church  heads 
ore  threaded  on  a  string,  some  large 
and  some  small,  to  assist  in  keeping 
count  how  often  a  i^erson  repeats  a 
certain  form  of  words. 

7o  prrii/  irithont  o)u'\s  heads.  To  be 
out  of  one's  reckoning.     (See  above.) 

]iaUi/s  Beads.  When  the  disc  of  the 
moon  has  (in  an  eclipse)  reduced  that  of 
the  sun  to  a  thin  crescent,  the  crescent 
assumes  the  aj^pearance  of  a  string  of 
beads.  This  was  first  observed  by 
Francis  Baily,  wlienco  the  name  of  the 
lihenomenou. 

St.  Cathherfs  Beads.  Single  joints 
f)f  the  articulated  stems  of  eucrinites. 
They  are  perforated  in  the  centre,  and 
bear  a  fanciful  resemblance  to  a  cross ; 
hence,  they  were  once  used  for  rosaries 
(beads).  St.  Cuthbert  was  a  Scotch 
monk  of  the  sixth  century,  and  may  be 
called  the  St.  Patrick  of  the  north  of 
England  and  south  of  Scotland. 

St.  Martbt's  beads.  Flash  jewellery. 
St.  Martins-le-Grand  was  at  one  time  a 
noted  place  for  sham  jewellery. 

Bead-house.  An  almshouse  for  beads- 
men. 

Bead-roll.  A  list  of  persons  to  be 
prayed  for  ;  hence,  also,  any  list. 

Beadle.  A  person  whose  duty  it  is 
(()  hid  or  cite  persons  to  appear  to  a 
summons  ;  also  a  church  servant,  whose 
duty  it  is  to  hid  the  parishioners  to 
attend  the  vestry,  or  to  give  notice  of 
vestry  meetings.  (Anglo-Saxon,  bccdel, 
from  Icodau,  to  bid  or  summon.) 

Beadsman  or  Bedesman.  An  in- 
habitant of  an  almshouse ;  so  called 
because  in  Catholic  times  most  charities 
of  this  class  were  instituted  that  the 
inmates  might  "  pray  for  the  soul  of  the 
founder."     (<S'('e  Bead.) 

"  Seated  with  Some  grey  beadsman." 

Crabbe:  liuroufjh. 

Beak.  A  magistrate.  (Anglo-Saxon 
heaf/,  a  gold  collar  worn  by  civic  magis- 
trates.) 

V  W.  H.  Black  says,  "The  term  is 
derived  from  a  Mr.  Beke,  who  was  for- 
merly a  resident  magistrate  at  the  Tower 
Hamlets. 

Beaker.  A  drinking-glass;  a  rum- 
mer.    (Greek,  hikos,  a  wine  jar.) 

"  Here,  Gerard,  reach  your  beaker." 
Broicnitig:  Blot  in  the  'SciiU'litou,  i.  1. 


Beam.  Throan  on  my  heaiii-ends. 
Driven  to  my  last  shift.  A  ship  is  said 
to  be  on  her  beam-ends  wlien  she  is  laid 
by  a  heavy  gale  completely  on  her  beams 
or  sides.  Not  uufrequently  the  only 
means  of  righting  her  in  such  a  case  is 
to  cvit  away  lier  masts. 

On  the  starho((rd  beam.  A  distant 
jioint  out  at  sea  on  the  right-hand  side, 
and  at  right  angles  to  the  keel. 

On  the  port  heain.  A  similar  point  on 
the  left-hand  side. 

On  the  ueather  beam.  On  that  side  of 
a  shi^s  which  faces  the  wind. 

Beam  {of  a  star/).  That  part  of  the 
head  from  which  the  horns  sj^ring. 
(Anglo-Saxon  beam,  a  tree  ;  the  horns 
are  called  branches.) 

Bean.  Urer//  bean  has  its  blaek. 
Xemo  sine  vitiis  nas'eitar,  ''everyone 
has  his  faidts."  The  bean  has  a  black 
eye.     {Ogni  ejrano  ha  la  sua  semohi.) 

He  has  foand  the  bean  in  the  ecdie,  he 
has  got  a  prize  in  the  lottery,  has  come 
to  some  unexpected  good  fortune.  The 
allusion  is  to  twelfth  cukes  in  which  a 
bean  is  buried.  Wlicn  the  cake  is  cut 
up  and  distributed,  he  who  gets  the  beau 
is  the  twelfth-night  king. 

Beans,  slang  for  property,  money, 
is  the  French  bie)is,  goods.  '•  A  bean  " 
=  a  guinea,  is  iu  Grose. 

"  Like  a  beane  [alms-money]  in  a  moukesliood. ' 
—Cotijnu-e. 

(See  Baeeistees'  Gowns.) 

Beans.  Pythag'oras  forbade  the  use 
of  beans  to  his  disciples — not  the  use  of 
beans  as  a  food,  but  the  use  of  beans  for 
political  elections.  Magistrates  and 
other  public  officers  were  elected  by 
beans  cast  by  the  voters  into  a  helmet, 
and  what  Pythag'oras  advised  was  tluit 
his  disciples  shoidd  not  interfere  with 
politics  or  "  love  beans  " — i.e.  office. 

Aristotle  says  the  word  bean  means 
ven'ery,  and  that  the  prohibition  to 
' '  abstain  from  beans ' '  was  equivalent 
to  "  keeping  the  body  chaste." 

V  The  French  have  the  proverb,  "  If 
he  gives  me  peas  I  will  give  him  beans," 
(S"(7  ine  donne  des  pois,je  liii  ehnnerai  des 
feres,  i.e.  I  will  give  him  tit  for  tat,  a 
Eowland  for  an  Oliver. 

Beans  are  in  Jtoxcer,  les  ferres  flearis- 
sent,  and  this  will  account  for  your 
being  so  silly.  Our  forefathers  imagined 
that  the  perfume  of  the  flowering  bean 
was  bad  for  the  head,  and  made  men 
silly  or  light-headed. 

He  hioics  how  many  beans  go  to  make 


Bean  Feast 


108 


Bear 


up  five.  He  is  "  up  to  snuff  ;  "  he  is  uo 
fool ;  lie  is  not  to  be  imposed  upon.  The 
refpi-ence  is  to  the  ancient  custom  of 
moving  heans  in  counting. 

"I  was  a  fool,  I  was,  ami  didn't  know  liow  ilia  ny 
1  eaus  make  five  [tliat  is,  liow  many  beans  must 
be  moved  to  make  up  flveJ."-/''«i-je(/H. 

"  Few  men  better  knew  bow  many  blue  beans 
it  takes  to  make  tive."— G«!t. 

V  Blue  Beans:  "  Three  blue  beans  in 

a  blue  bladder."     A  rattle  for  cliildreu. 

"F.  Hark  !  does  it  rattle?         .  ,,,,.. 

,s'  Yes,  like  three  blue  beans  in  a  blue  Idadder. 
Old  Fortanutns  {Aiicient  Vramas),  lu.  p.  US. 

V  "Blue  beans"  are  bullets  or  shot. 
Three  small  bullets  or  large  shot  in  a 
bladder  would  make  a  very  good  rattle 
for  a  child.     {See  Blue  Beans.) 

Fall  of  beans.  Said  of  a  fresh  and 
spirited  horse. 

To  fjet  beanfi.     To  incur  reproof. 

I'll  (/ire  him  beans.  A  licking;  a 
jolly  good  hiding.  A  very  common 
phrase.  Probably  from  the  French  re- 
ferred to  above,  meaning  as  good  as  I 
got ;   "  beans  for  his  peas." 

Bean  Feast.  Much  the  same  as 
wayz-goose  {q.r.).  A  feast  given  by  an 
employer  to  those  he  employs. 

Bean  Goose  {The^.  A  migratory 
bird  which  appears  in  England  in  the 
autumn  of  the  year,  and  is  so  named 
from  a  mark  on  its  bill  like  a  horse- 
bean.  It  is  ne.xt  in  size  to  the  Grey 
La^-goose.  The  term  comes  from  the 
uortliern  counties  where  the  beau  Ujoose) 
is  common. 

"  E-iiieoe  d'oie  duiit  les  mandibules  sunt  laillees 
en  fnrme  de  fL-\  eroKs."— iJoi/ai  Dictiuuuuire. 

Bean-king  {T/iey.  Meij  de  Habas, 
the  child  appointed  to  play  the  part  of 
king  on  twelfth-night.  In  France  it 
was  at  one  time  customary  to  hide  a 
bean  in  a  large  cake,  and  he  to  whom 
the  bean  fell,  when  the  cake  was  dis- 
tributed, was  for  the  nonce  the  beau 
king,  to  whom  all  the  other  guests 
showed  playful  reverence.  The  Greeks 
used  beans  for  voting  by  ballot. 

Bean-Kin(/s  festiial.  TweKth-night. 
{See  above.) 

Bear  {A).  (Stock  Exchange),  a  fall, 
or  a  speculator  for  a  fall.  I'o  ope- 
rate for  a  bear.  To  realise  a  profitable 
bear. 

lirarinc/  the  market  is  using  every 
effort  to 'depress  the  price  of  stocks  in 
order  to  buy  it.  ,  ,    „     ■      i. 

The  arena  of  bears  and  OkUs,  i.e.  the 
Stock  Exchange. 

V  Dr.  Warton  says  the  term  bear  came 
from  the  proverb  of  "Selling  the  skin 


before  you  have  caught  the  bear,"  and 
refened  to  those  who  entered  into 
contracts  in  the  South  Sea  Scheme  to 
transfer  stock  at  a  stated  price.  {See 
Bull.) 

"So  was  tlie  luintsman  by  I  lie  bear  opl'i'pssed.     ^^ 
Whose  hide  he  sold  before  he  caught  the  beast. 
WcUer:  Battle  uj the  Snmmir  Jsloiitts,  c.  ii. 

A  Bear  aecuxnt.  A  speculation  in 
stocks  on  the  chance  of  a  fall  in  the 
price  of  the  stock  sold,  with  a  view  of 
buying  it  back  at  a  lower  price  or  re- 
ceiving the  difference.     {See  Bulls.) 

Bear  {The).  Albert,  margrave  of 
Brandenburg.  He  was  also  called  "  The 
Fair"  (1106-1170). 

The  bloodij  Bear,  in  Dryden's   poem 
called    The  Hind   and  Fanther,   means  , 
the  Independents. 

"  The  bloody  bear,  an  independent  beast,  ^_ 

Uulicked  to  form,  in  groans  her  hate  expresseJ. 

pt.  1.  ;i.j,  .••>. 
The  Great  Bear  and  Little  Bear.  The 
constellations  so  called  are  specimens  of 
a  large  class  of  blunders  founded  on 
approximate  sounds.  The  Sanskrit  ral.h 
means  "  to  be  bright ;  "  the  Greeks  cor- 
rupted the  word  into  urktos,  which 
means  a  bear;  so  that  the  "  bear  "^ 
should  in  reality  be  the  "bright  ones." 
The  fable  is  that  Calisto,  a  nymph  of 
Diana,  had  two  sons  by  Jupiter,  which 
Juno  changed  into  bears,  and  Jupiter 
converted  into  constellations. 

"The  wind-shaked  surge,  with  high  and  mon- 
strous mane, 
Seems  to  cast  water  on  the  burning  bear, 
And  .luench  the  guards  of  th'  ever-fixed  pole. 
Slittkespeaie :  Othello,  ii.  1. 
"  'Twas  here  we  saw  Calisto's  star  retire 
Beneath  the  waves,  unawed  by  Juno's  ire. 
Camoeus:  i-iisiaif,  book  v. 

The  Bear  or  Northern  Bear.    Eussia. 
"  Prance  turns  from  heraliandoned  fiiendsafresh. 
And  soothes  the  bear  that  prowls  for  patriot 
flesh."  Cumpbell :  Poland,  stanza  .•>. 

A  Bridled  Bear.  A  young  nobleman 
under  the  control  of  a  travelhug  tutor. 
(.SVr  Beae-leader.) 

The  Bear  and  Ragged  Staff.  A  public- 
house  sign  in  compliment  to  Warwick, 
the  king-maker,  whose  cognisance  it 
was.  The  first  earl  was  Arth  or  Arth- 
gal,  of  the  Round  Table,  whose  cogni- 
sance was  a  bear,  because  arth  means 
a  bear  (Latin,  urs').  Morvid,  the  second 
earl,  overcame,  in  single  combat,  a 
mighty  giant,  who  came  against  hnn 
with  a  club,  which  was  a  tree  pulled 
up  by  the  roots,  but  stripped  of  its 
branches.  In  remembrance  of  his  victory 
over  the  giant   he   added   "the  ragged 

staff."  ^      ,      ,     ,.,, 

The  Bear  and  the  Tea-kettle  (Kams- 
chatka).     Said  of  a  person  who  injures 


Bear 


109 


Beard 


himself  by  foolish  rage.  One  day  a 
bear  entered  a  hut  in  Kamschatka,  where 
a  kettle  was  on  the  fire.  Master  Bruin 
went  to  the  kettle,  and  smelling  at  it 
burnt  his  nose  ,  being  gi'eatly  irritated, 
he  seized  the  kettle  with  his  paws,  and 
squeezed  it  against  his  breast.  This,  of 
course,  made  matters  worse,  for  the 
boiling  water  scalded  him  tenibly, 
and  he  gi'owled  in  agony  till  some 
neighbours  put  an  end  to  his  life  with 
their  guns. 

A  bear  sitcldnf/  his  paws.  It  is  said 
that  when  a  bear  is  deprived  of  food,  it 
sustains  life  by  sucking  its  paws.  The 
same  is  said  of  the  English  badger. 
Applied  to  industrious  idleness. 

As  savage  as  a  bear  irit/i  a  sore  (or 
sca/t)  head.     Unreasonably  ill-tempered. 

As  a  bear  has  no  tail,  for  c  ^'■on  heUl 
fall.  The  same  as  Xe  sator  supra  crep'- 
idaiii,  "let  not  the  cobbler  aspire  above 
his  last."  Robert  Dudley,  Earl  of  Lei- 
cester, being  a  descendant  of  the 
Warwick  family,  changed  his  own  crest, 
which  was  ' '  a  green  Hon  with  two  tails, 
for  the  "Warwick  crest,  a  "  bear  and 
ragged  staff."  When  made  governor  of 
the  Low  Countries,  he  was  suspected  of 
aiming  at  absolute  supremac}^,  or  the 
desire  of  being  the  monarch  of  his 
fellows,  as  the  Hon  is  monarch  among 
beasts.  Some  wit  wrote  under  his  crest 
the  Latin  verse,  "  Ursa  caret  cauda  non 
qacat  esse  leo.'" 


To  take  the  bear  bi/  the  tooth.  To  put 
your  head  into  the  lion's  mouth  ;  need- 
lessly to  run  into  danger. 

You  dare  as  soon  take  a  bear  by  his 
tooth.  You  would  no  more  attempt 
such  a  thing,  than  attempt  to  take  a 
bear  by  its  tooth. 

Bear  (To).  C'ome,beara  hand  '  Come 
and  render  help!  In  French,  '■'•Bonner 
an  coup  «  quehpCun.'^  Bring  a  hand,  or 
bring  your  hand  to  bear  on  the  work 
going  on. 

To  bear  arms.     To  do  military  service. 

To  bear  aicaij  (Xautical).  To  keep 
away  from  the  wind. 

2b  bear  one  company.  To  be  one's 
companion. 

'■.  His  faitliful  dog  shall  hear  liim  crvmpany.'' 

Pope :  Essay  on  Man ,  epistle  i .  1 13. 

To  bear  doun.  To  overpower ;  to  force 
down. 

"  Fully  prepared  to  liear  down  all  resistance.  "— 
Cooper :  The  Pilot,  chap,  xviii. 

To  bear  doivn  upon  (Nautical).  To 
api)io;ich  from  the  weather  side. 


To  bear  in  mind.  Remember  ;  do  not 
forget.     Carry  in  your  recollection. 

"  To  learn  by  heart,"  means  to  le;irn  niemoriter. 
Mind  and  heart  stand  for  memory  in  Iwjth 
phrases. 

To  bear  out.  To  corroborate,  to  con- 
firm. 

To  bear  np.  To  support ;  to  keep  the 
spirits  up. 

To  bear  with.     To  show  forbearance ; 

to  endure  with  complacency. 

"  How  Ions  shall  I  hear  with  this  evil  congre- 
gation ?"— Numbers  xiv.  -^T. 

To  bear  the  bell.     {See  Bell.) 

Bear  of  Bradwardine  {The)  was  a 
wine  goblet,  holding  about  an  English 
pint,  and,  according  to  Scott,  was  made 
by  command  of  St.  Duthac,  Abbot  of 
Aberbrothoc,  to  be  ^jresented  to  the 
Baron  of  Bradwardine  for  services  ren- 
dered ,in  defence  of  the  monasterj'. 
Inscribed  upon  the  goblet  was  the  motto : 
"  Beware  the  bear." 

Bear  Account  (A).     (See  Beau.) 

Bear  Garden.  This  ptace  is  a  perfect 
hear-garden — that  is,  full  of  confusion, 
noise,  tumult,  and  quaiTels.  Bear-gar- 
dens were  places  where  bears  used  to  be 
kept  and  baited  for  public  amusement. 

Bear-leader.  One  who  undertakes 
the  charge  of  a  yoimg  man  of  rank 
on  his  travels.  It  was  oiice  customaiy 
to  lead  muzzled  bears  about  the  streets, 
and  to  make  them  show  off  in  order  to 
attract  notice  and  gain  money. 

"  Bear  I  [said  Dr.  Pangloss  to  his  pupil].  Vnder 
favour,  young  gentleman,  1  am  the  Oear-learter, 
being  appointed  your  tutor."— G.  Cohiian  :  llcir- 
(it-Lau: 

Bears  are  caught  by  Honey.    In 

French,  "  Ilfaut  avoir  maueaise  bi-te  par 
douceur,''''  for,  as  La  Fontaine  saj-s,  ^'Plus 
fait  douceur  que  violence.''''  Bears  are 
very  fond  of  honey.  Biibes  win  even 
bears. 

•.'  There  is  another  phrase:  Diviile  honeii  iriih  n. 
broy.  i.e.  It  is  better  tn  divide  your  honey  w;t!i  a 
bear  than  to  provoke  its  anger. 

Beard.  Cutting  the  beard.  The  Turks 
think  it  a  dire  disgrace  to  have  the  beard 
cut.  Slaves  who  serve  in  the  seraglio 
have  clean  chins,  as  a  sign  of  their 
servitude. 

Kissing  the  beard.  In  Turkey  wives 
kiss  their  husband,  and  children  their 
father  on  the  beard. 

To  make  one's  beard  (Chaucer).  This  is 
the  French  "Fairc  la  barbed quelqu'un."' 
and  refers  to  a  barber's  taking  hold  of  a 
man's  beard  to  dress  it,  or  to  his  shaving 
the  chin  of  a  customer.  To  make  one's 
beard  is  to  have  him  wholly  at  your 
mercy. 


Beard 


no 


Beasts 


I  told  him  to  his  beard.  I  told  him  to 
his  face,  regardless  of  consequences  ;  to 
speak  openly  and  fearlessly. 

Beard  {To).  To  beard  one  is  to  defy 
him,  to  contradict  him  flatly,  to  insult 
by  plucking  the  beard.  Among  the 
Jews,  no  greater  insult  could  be  offered 
to  a  man  than  to  pluck  or  even  touch 
his  beard. 

To  beard  the  lion  in  his  den.  To  con- 
tradict one  either  in  his  own  growlery, 
or  on  some  subject  he  has  made  his 
hobby.  To  defy  personally  or  face  to 
face. 

"  Dar'st  thou,  then, 
To  beard  the  lion  in  his  den, 
The  Douglas  in  his  hall  ?  " 
Sir  W.  Scott :  Marmion,  canto  vi.  stanza  14. 

Ilaugrc  his  beard.     In  spite  of  him. 

To  lauyh  at  one's  beard.  .To  attempt 
to  make  a  fool  of  a  person — to  deceive 
by  ridiculous  exaggeration. 

"'  Bvthe  i>ni)ihet !  but  he  laughs  at  our  beards,' 
exclaimed  the  Pacha  angrily.  '  These  are  foolish 
lies.'  "—Marryat :  Pacha  of  Many  Talcs. 

To  langh  in  one's  beard  [''Mire  dans 
sa  barbe  "]  To  laugh  in  one's  sleeve. 

To  run  in  one's  beard.  To  offer  oppo- 
sition to  a  person ;  to  do  something 
obnoxious  to  a  person  before  }iis  face. 
The  French  say,  "a  la  barbe  de  quel- 
qii'iin,"  under  one's  very  nose. 

If'ith  tlie  beard  on  the  shoulder  (Span- 
ish), lu  the  attitude  of  listening  to 
overhear  something ;  with  circumspec- 
tion, looking  in  all  directions  for  sur- 
prises and  ambuscades. 

'•The.v  rode,  as  the  Spanish  proverb  e.xpresses 
it,  'with  the  beard  on  the  shoulder,'  looking 
ri>Mn(l  from  time  t^i  time,  and  using  ever.v  pre- 
caiitiou  .  .  .  agiinst  pursuit."  — S/r  W.  Scott: 
I'crcril  of  the  Peak,  chap,  vii.- 

Tax  vpon  beards.  Peter  the  Great 
imposed  a  tax  upon  beards.  Every  one 
above  the  lowest  class  had  to  pay  100 
roubles,  and  the  lowest  class  had  to  pay 
a  copec,  for  enjoying  this  "luxury." 
Clerks  were  stationed  at  the  gates  of 
every  town  to  collect  the  beard-tax. 

Bearded.  Bearded  Master  {^[agister 
barba'tus).  So  Persius  styled  Socrates, 
imder  the  notion  that  the  beard  is  the 
symbol  of  wisdom.  (B.C.  468-399.) 
"  Foqona'tus  (Bearded).  Coustantine 
IV.. "Emperor  of  Rome  (648,  668-685). 

The  Bearded.  Geoffrey  the  Crusader, 
and  Bouchard  of  the  house  of  Mont- 
morency. 

Handsome-heard.  Baldwin  IV.,  Earl 
of  Fhinders.     (1160-1186.) 

Joint  the  Bearded.  Johann  Mayo,  the 
German  painter,  whose  beard  touched 
the  ground  when  he  stood  upright. 


Bearded  Women: 

Bartel  Graetje,  of  Stuttgard,  born 
lo6'2. 

The  Duke  of  Saxony  had  the  portrait 
taken  of  a  poor  Swiss  woman,  remarkable 
for  her  large  bushy  beard. 

In  1726  a  female  dancer  appeared  at 
Venice,  with  a  large  bushy  beard. 

Charles  XII.  had  in  his  army  a  woman 
whose  beard  was  a  j'ard  and  a  half  long. 
She  was  taken  iirisoner  at  the  battle  of 
Pultowa.,  and  presented  to  the  Czar, 
1724. 

Mile.  Bois  de  Chene,  born  at  Geneva 
in  1834,  was  exhibited  in  London  in 
18.52-3  ;  she  had  a  i^rofuse  head  of  hair, 
a  strong  black  beard,  large  wliiskers, 
and  thick  hair  on  her  arms  and  back. 

Julia  Pastra'ua  was  exhibited  in  Lou- 
don in  1857  ;  died,  1862,  at  Moscow  ;  was 
embalmed  by  Professor  Suckaloft' ;  and 
the  embalmed  body  was  exhibited  at 
191,  Piccadill}'.  She  was  found  among 
the  Digger  Indians  of  Mexico. 

Margaret  of  Holland  had  a  long,  stiff 
beard. 

Bearings.  I'll  bring  him  to  his  bear- 
ings. I'll  bring  him  to  his  senses.  A 
sea  term.  The  bearings  of  a  ship  at 
anchor  is  that  part  of  her  liuU  which  is 
on  the  water-line  when  she  is  in  good 
trim.  To  bring  a  ship  to  her  bearings  is 
to  get  her  into  this  trim.  {Dana  :  The 
Seanxin's  Manual,  84.) 

To  lose  one's  bearings.  To  become  be- 
wildered ;  to  get  perplexed  as  to  which 
is  the  right  road. 

To  take  the  hearings.  To  ascertain  the 
relative  position  of  some  object. 

Bearnais  [Le-).  Henri  IV.  of  France  ; 
so  called  from  Le  Beam,  his  native  pro- 
vince (1553-1610). 

Beasts  {Heraldic)  : 

Vouchant,  lying  down. 

Vounter-passant,  moving  in  opposite 
directions. 

Dormant,  sleeping. 

Gardant,  full-faced. 

Issuant,  rising  from  the  top  or  bottom 
of  an  ordinary. 

Xaseent,  rising  out  of  the  middle  of 
an  ordinary. 

Passaht,  walking. 

I'assant  gardant,  walking,  and  with 
full  face. 

Fassant  regardant,  walking  and  look- 
ing behind. 

Mam  pant,  rearing. 

lierjardaut,  looking  back. 

Sejant,  seated. 

Salient,  springing. 

Statant,  standing  still. 


Beastly  Drunk 


111 


Beaten 


Beastly  Drunk.  It  was  an  ancient 
notion  tliat  men  in  their  cups  exhibited 
the  vicious  qualities  of  beasts.  Nash 
describes  seven   kinds  of  drunkards  :— 

(1)  The  Apc-dru>ih\  who  leaps  and  sings ; 

(2)  The  Lion-dniuk,  who  is  quarrelsome ; 
(o)  The  Stvbie-drnitk,  who  is  sleejjy  and 
l)uking  ;  (4)  The  Sheep-drunk,  wise  in 
Jiis  own  conceit,  but  unable  to  speak ; 
(5)  The  Martin-drunk,  who  drinks  him- 
self sober  again ;  (6)  The  Goat-drunk, 
who  is  lascivious ;  and  (7)  The  Fox- 
dnink,  who  is  crafty,  like  a  Dutchman 
in  liis  cups.     {See  Maitdlin.] 

Beat.  A  track,  line,  or  appointed 
range.  A  walk  often  trodden  or  beaten 
by  the  feet,  as  a  2Mliceiuan's  beat.  The 
word  means  a  beaten  path. 

Xo(  in  nuj  heat.  Not  in  my  line  ;  not 
in  the  range  of  my  talents  or  inclination. 

Off  Jdfi  beat.  Not  on  duty  ;  not  in  his 
appointed  walk;  not  his  speciality  or 
line. 

'■  (JfE  his  own  beat  his  opinions  were  of  no 
\A\\\c."—Emersim:  English  Traits,  cLap.  i. 

On  hi.s  beat.  In  his  appointed  walk; 
on  duty. 

Out  of  kin  beat.  In  his  wrong  walk  ; 
out  of  his  proper  sphere. 

2o  beat  up  one''s  quarters.  To  hunt 
out  where  one  lives ;  to  visit  without 
ceremony.  A  military  tenn,  signifying 
to  make  an  unexpected  attack  on  an 
enemy  in  camp. 

■•To  beat  op  tlie  ciiiai-ters  of  some  of  our  less- 
kuiiwu  relaticius.' — iy«rii(;;  Essaijs  of  Elia. 

Beat  {To).  To  strike.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
beat  an.) 

To  beat  an  alarm.  To  give  notice  of 
danger  by  beat  of  drum. 

To  beat  or  drum  a  thing  into  one.  To 
lepeat  as  a  drummer  repeats  his  strokes 
on  a  drum. 

To  beat  a  retreat  (French,  battre  en 
retraite) ;  to  beat  to  arms ;  to  beat  a 
eharge.  Militaiy  terms  similar  to  the 
above. 

To  beat  the  air.  To  strike  out  at  no- 
thing, merely  to  bring  one's  muscles  into 
play,  as  pugilists  do  before  they  begin  to 
tight ;  to  toil  without  profit ;  to  work  to 
no  purpose. 

".-^  r  light  I,  not  as  cue  that  beatetU  the  air.'  — 
1  Cor.  i\.  '.ti. 

To  heat  the  bush.  One  beat  the  bush 
and  another  caught  the  hare.  "//  a 
battii  les  buissons,  et  autre  a  pris  les 
oiseaux."  "  II  bat  le  buisson  sans  prendre 
/rs  oisitlons''^  is  a  slightly  different  idea, 
meaning  he  has  toiled  in  vain.  "  Other 
men  laboin^ed,  and  ye  are  entered  into 
their  labours  "  (John  iv.  48).  The  allu- 
sion is  to  beaters,  who.?e  business  it  i.5  to 


beat  the  bushes  and  start  the  game  for  a 
shooting  party. 

To  beat  the  DeviVs  Tattoo.  {Sec 
Tattoo.) 

To  beat  the  Butch.  To  draw  a  very 
long  bow;  to  say  something  very  in- 
credible. 

"  Well  !  it  that  dnu't  heat  the  Dutch!" 

l\j  heat  time.  To  mark  time  in  music 
by  beating  or  moving  the  hands,  feet,  or 
a  wand. 

To  beat  up  supporters.  To  hunt  them 
up  or  call  them  together,  as  soldiers  are 
by  beat  of  drum. 

Beat  {To).  To  overcome  or  get  the 
better  of.  This  does  not  mean  to  strike, 
which  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  bedtan,  but  to 
better,  to  be  better,  from  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  verb  betan. 

iJeeid  beat.  So  completely  beaten  or 
worsted  as  to  have  no  leg  to  stand  on. 
Like  a  dead  man  with  no  light  left  in 
him  ;  quite  tired  out. 

"  I'm  dead  heat,  but  I  thini.irht  I'd  like  to  ciiuin 
in  and  see  you  all  once  nicu-e."— ii'ue;  H'lHiout  <i 
Home,  p.  3J. 

Dead  beat  escapement  (of  a  watch). 
One  in  which  there  is  no  reverse  motion 
of  the  escape-wheel. 

That  beats  Ban'aejher.  Wonderfidly 
inconsistent  and  absurd  —  exceedingly 
lidiculous.  Banagher  is  a  town  in 
Ireland,  on  the  Shannon,  in  King's 
County.  It  formerly  sent  two  members 
to  Parliament,  and  was,  of  course,  a 
famous  pocket  borough.  When  a  mem- 
ber spoke  of  a  family  borough  where 
every  voter  was  a  man  em2Jloyed  by  the 
lord,  it  was  not  unusual  to  reply,  ' '  Well, 
that  beats  Banagher." 

"'Well,' says  he, 'toRratify  them  I  will.  So  just 
a  morsel.  But,  Jack,  this  beats  Banna.Lther'  (.■<!(■;." 
—  W.  B.  Yeats:  Eairy  Tales  of  the  Irish  Pcasaiitnj, 
p.  1%. 

That  beats  Termagant.  Your  rantitig, 
raging  pomjjosity,  or  exaggeration,  sur- 
passes that  of  Termagant  {q.v.). 

To  beat  hollow  is  to  beat  wholly,  to  bs 
wholly  the  sujjerior. 

To  beat  up  aqainst  the  wind.  To  tack 
against  an  adverse  wind ;  to  get  the 
better  of  the  wind. 

Beat.     (French,  cchattre,  to  abate.) 

To  beat  down.  To  make  a  seller 
"abate"  his  price. 

Beaten  to  a  Mummy.  Beaten  so 
that  one  can  distinguish  neither  form 
nor  feature. 

Beaten  with  his  own  Staff.  Con- 
futed by  one's  own  words.  An  argu- 
uwntum  ad  honunem. 

"fan  High  Church  bigotry  go  farther  than 
this?  And  bow  well  have  I  since  been  beaten 
with  mine  own  staff."—/.  1V'cs/f(/.    (He  refers  to 


Beating 


112 


Beauty 


liis  exchidinK  Bcilziiis  fi-om  "the  Lnni's  talile," 
because  lie  liad  not  been  canonically  baiitized.) 

Beating    about    the    Bush.     Not 

coming  directly  to  the  matter  in  hand, 
hut  feeling  your  way  timidly  by  indirec- 
tion, as  persons  beat  hushes  to  ascertain 
if  game  is  hirking  under  them. 

Beating  the  Bounds.  On  Holy 
Tliursdaj',  or  Ascension  Day,  it  used  to 
be  customary  for  the  parisli  school  chil- 
dren, accompanied  by  the  clergymen  and 
parish  officers,  to  walk  through  their 
parish  from  end  to  end.  The  boys  were 
struck  with  willow  wands  all  along  the 
lines  of  boundary.  Before  maps  were 
common,  the  boys  were  thus  taught  to 
know  tlie  bounds  of  their  own  parish. 
The  custom  still  prevails  in  some  parishes. 

Beati  Possidentes.  Blessed  are 
those  who  have  [for  they  shall  receive] . 
"Possession  is  nine  points  of  the  law." 

Beatific  Vision.  The  sight  of  the 
Deity,  or  of  the  blessed  in  the  realms  of 
heaven.  {Sec  Isaiah  vi.  1-4,  and  Acts 
vii.  55,  56.) 

Beatrice,  beloved  from  girlhood  by 
Daiite,  a  native  of  Florence,  was  of  the 
Portinari  family.  She  died  imder 
twenty-four  years  of  age  (12(36-1290). 
Beati'ice  married  Simone  do'  Bardi,  and 
Dante  married  Gemma  Donati. 

Beau. 

BeanBrummel.  George  Bryan.  (1778- 
1810.) 

Lc  Beau  lyOrsay.  Father  of  Count 
D'Orsay,  and  called  by  Byron  Jenne 
Ciipldoii. 

Bean  Fielduifi,  called  "Handsome 
Fielding"  by  Charles  II.,  whose  name 
was  Hendrome  Fielding.  He  died  in 
Scotland  Yard,  London. 

Beau  Hewitt.  The  "  Sir  Fopling 
Flutter"  of  Etheredge.  {The  Man  of 
Mode;  or,  Sir  Foplunj  Flutter.) 

Beau  Xufili.  Son  of  a  "Welsh  gentle- 
man, a  notorious  diner-out.  He  under- 
took the  management  of  the  bath-rooms 
at  Bath,  and  conducted  the  public  balls 
Avith  a  splendour  and  decorum  never 
before  witnessed.  In  old  age  he  sank 
into  poverty.     (1674-1761.) 

Beau  Ttbbs,  noted  for  his  finery, 
vanity,  and  poverty.  {Goldsmith  :  Citizen 
of  the  World.) 

Beau  Id'eal.  The  model  of  beauty 
or  excellency  formed  by  fancy. 

Beau  Jour  beau  Retour  {A).  My 
turn  will  come  next.     (Never  used  iu  a 


good  sense,  but  always  to  signify  the 
resentment  of  an  injury.) 

Beau  Lion  (f'«).  A  fine  dashing 
fellow  ;  an  aristocrat  every  inch  ;  the 
"  lion  "  of  society.  The  lion  is  the  king 
of  beasts. 

Beau  Monde.  The  fashionable 
world;  people  who  make  up  the  coterie 
of  fashion. 

Beau  Trap.  A  loose  pavement 
imder  which  water  lodges,  and  which 
squirts  up  filth  when  trodden  on,  to  the 
annoyance  of  the  smartly  dressed. 

Beauclerc  \^good  scholar'].  Applied 
to  Henry  I.,  who  had  clerk-like  accom- 
plishments, very  rare  in  the  times  iu 
which  he  lived  (1068,  1100-1135). 

Beaumontague  [pronounce  ho-woii- 
faif/].  Bad  work,  especiall}^  ill-fitting 
carpenter's  work ;  literary  padding ; 
paste  and  scissors  literature  ;  so  called 
from  putty  used  by  carpenters,  etc.,  for 
filling  up  cracks  and  bad  joinery.  Ger- 
man, teir/,  dough  ;  and  Emile  Beaumont, 
the  geologist  (1798-1851),  who  also  gives 
his  name  to  "  Beaumontite. " 

Beautiful.  Beautiful  or  fair  «.".•  ni>, 
angel.  Throughout  the  Middle  Ages  it 
was  common  to  associate  beautj'  ■with 
virtue,  and  ugliness  with  sin ;  hence 
the  exjiressions  given  above,  and  the 
following  also — "Seraphic  beauty," 
"Cherubic  loveliness,"  "Ugly  as  sin," 
etc. 

Beautiful  Parricide.  Beatrice Cenci, 
the  daughter  of  a  Roman  nobleman,  who 
plotted  the  death  of  her  father  because 
he  violently  defiled  her.     (Died  1599.) 

"  Francesco  Cenci  (xvi.  siecle)  .  .  .  avait  <iuatre 
fils  et  line  fille  (Beatrix).  11  les  nialtraitait 
cruellemeut,  on  les  faisait  seivir  a  ses  plaisiis 
bnitaux.  .  .  .  Revoltee  de  taut  d'boiTeurs,  Bea- 
trix, sa  fille,  de  concert  avec  deux  de  ses  freres, 
et  Lucrece  leur  mere,  tit  assassiner  Francesco 
Cenci.  Accuses  de  parricide,  ils  purirent  tons 
quatre  sur  I'ecbafaud  par  la  sentence  de  Clement 
VIII.  (1605)."— iVitlHei. 

•.•  Tbis  is  Mmatori's  version  of  the  affair,  but  it 
is  mucU  disputed.  It  is  a  favourite  tlieme  fi  r 
tragedy. 

Beauty.      Tout  est   beau  sans  chan- 
delles.    "  La  nuit  tous  les  chats  sont  ffris." 
Beauty  is  but  skin  deep. 

"O  fovuinse  puer,  uitiiium  ue  crede  colori." 
Virgil,  Bucolics,  ii. 

Beauty  and  the  Beast.  The  hero 
and  heroine  of  Madame  Villeneuve's 
fairy  tale.  Beauty  saved  the  life  of 
her  father  by  consenting  to  live  with 
the  Beast ;  and  the  Beast,  being  dis- 
enchanted by  Beauty's  love,  became  a 
handsome  prince,  and  married  her. 
{Contes  Marines,  1740.) 


Beauty 


llfJ 


Bed-post 


',*  A  haudsome  womau  with  an  liu- 
couth  or  uncomely  male  companion. 

Beauty  of  Buttermere.  Mary 
Robinson,  married  to  John  Hatfield,  a 
lieartless  impostor,  executed  for  forgery 
at  Carlisle  in  1803. 

Beauty  Sleep.  Sleep  taken  before 
midnight.  Tliose  who  habitually  go  to 
bed,  especially  during  j'outh,  after  mid- 
night, are  usually  pale  and  more  or  less 
haggard. 

"Would  I  please  to  rememliortlmt  1  liad  rnuserl 
him  up  ;it  iiicrlit  ....  [in]  bis  lieaiuy  sleep."  — 
Jilackmore  :  Lonia  Doone,  chap.  fil. 

Beaux  Esprits  (French).  Men  of 
wit  or  genius  (singular  number,  U/t  hcl 
esprit,  a  wit,  a  genius). 

Beaux  Yeux  (French).  Beautiful 
eyes  or  attractive  looks.  "I  will  do  it 
for  your  bcait.v  yciix^''  (because  you  are 
so  pretty,  or  because  your  eyes  are  so 
attractive). 

Beaver.  A  hat ;  so  called  from  its 
being  made  of  beaver-  skins. 

Beaver.  That  jDart  of  the  helmet 
which  lifted  up  to  enable  the  wearer  to 
drink.  Similarly  lever,  the  afternoon 
draught  in  the  harvest-field,  called 
fours'' s.  (Italian,  bevere,  to  drink ; 
Spanish,  Leber ;  Latin,  b'lbo ;  French, 
biiveur,  a  drinker ;  Armoric,  beiivranli, 
beverage,  etc.) 

"  Hamlet :  Then  you  saw  not  his  face  ? 

"Horatio:  O.yes,  my  lord  ;  he  wore  bis  heaver 
up."  '  SiKtkespcare :  Hamlet,  i.  i. 

Becarre,  Bemol.  Sautcr  de  hecarre 
en  bemol  (French),  to  jump  from  one 
subject  to  another  without  regard  to 
pertinence;  ^^  Hunter  dii  cuq  a  Pane,'''' 
from  Genesis  to  Revelation.  Literall}', 
to  jump  from  shar^js  to  flats.  Becarre 
is  the  Latin  B  quadratum  or  H  quarre. 
In  old  musical  notation  B  sharp  was 
expressed  by  a  square  b,  and  B  flat  by 
a  round  B. 

V  Beniol  is  B  inolUs,  soft  (flat). 

Becasse.  You  goose  ;  you  simple- 
ton ;  you  booby.  Becasse  is  a  wood- 
cock. "  Cest  line  becasse,''^  he  or  she  is 
a  fool. 

Becket's  Assassins.  William  de 
Tracj',  Hugh  de  Morville,  Richard  Brito 
(or  le  Bret),  and  Fitz-Urse. 

Bed.  The  yreat  bed  of  Ware.  Abed 
twelve  feet  square,  and  capable  of  hold- 
ing twelve  persons  ;  assigned  by  tradi- 
tion to  the  Earl  of  Warwick,  the  king- 
maker.    It  is  now  in  Rye  House. 

"  AlthouKh  the  sheet  were  big  encmgh  for  the 
hed  of  Ware  in  England."— S/intCfpettre ;  TwelfJi 
Night,  iii.  "J. 

8 


To  mal-e  the  bed.  To  arrange  it  and 
make  it  fit  for  use.  In  America  this 
sense  of  "make  "  is  much  more  common 
tluin  it  is  with  us.  ' '  Your  room  is 
made,"  arranged  in  due  order.  To 
make  it  all  right. 

As  i/oii  viake  your  bed  you  must  lie  on 
it.  Everyone  must  bear  the  conse- 
quences of  his  own  acts.  "  As  you  sow, 
so  must  yoti  reap."  "As  you  brew,  so 
mirst  you  bake." 

To  bed  out.  To  plant  what  are  called 
''  bedding-out  jjlants  "  in  a  flower-bed. 

V  Bedding-out  jjlants  are  reared  in 
pots,  generally  in  a  hot-house,  and  are 
transferred  into  garden-beds  early  in 
the  summer.  Such  plants  as  geraniums, 
marguerites,  fuchsias,  penstemons,  jje- 
tunias,  verbenas,  lobelias,  calceolarias, 
etc.,  are  meant. 

You  qot  out  of  bed  the  wronq  iraij,  or 
with  the  left  leg  foremost.  Said  of  a 
person  who  is  patchy  and  ill-tempered. 
It  was  an  ancient  superstition  that  it 
was  unlucky  to  set  the  left  foot  on  the 
ground  first  on  getting  out  of  bed.  The 
same  superstition  applies  to  putting  on 
the  left  shoe  first,  a  "fancy"  not  yet 
wholly  exploded. 

V  Augustus  Cajsar  Avas  very  super- 
stitious in  this  respect. 

Bed  of  Justice.     {See  Lit.) 

Bed  of  Roses  {A).  A  situation  of 
ease  and  pleasure. 

Bed  of  Thorns  {A).  A  situation  of 
great  anxiety  and  apprehension. 

Bed-post.  lu  the  tivinlilini/  of  a  bed- 
post. As  quickly  as  jjossible.  In  the 
ancient  bed-frames  movable  staves  were 
laid  as  we  now  lay  iron  laths ;  there 
were  also  staves  in  the  two  sides  of  the 
bedstead  for  keej^ing  the  bed-clothes 
from  rolling  off ;  and  in  some  cases  a 
staif  was  used  to  beat  the  bed  and 
clean  it.  In  the  reign  of  Edward  I., 
Sir  John  Chichester  had  a  mock  skirmish 
with  his  servant  (Sir  John  with  his 
rapier  and  the  servant  with  the  bed- 
staff),  in  which  the  servant  was  acci- 
dentally killed.  Wright,  in  his  Domes- 
tic Muiniers,  shows  us  a  chamber- 
maid of  the  seventeenth  century  using 
a  bed-staff  to  beat  up  the  bedding. 
"Twinkling"  means  a  rapid  twist  or 
turn.  (Old  French,  guinc'her :  Welsh, 
(/ici/iff,  giringaw,  our  icrif/e/le.) 

"  I'll  do  it  iustaiillv.  ill  the  twinkling  of  a  hed- 
Stan."—Slnliliri'll  :   Vntufisn.  P. 7(1. 

"  He  would  liiiM-  rill  liiiu  (low  II  iu  the  twinkling 
of  a  bed-post."—"  JtiiUcluin:'  dune  into  Eni/lisli. 

Bobadil,  in  Every  Man  in  his  Humour, 


Bede 


114 


Bee 


and  Lord  Duberley,  in  the  Heir-at-Law, 
use  the  same  expression. 

Bede  {Adam).  A  novel  by  George 
Eliot  (Marian  Evans),  1859.  One  of 
llie  chief  characters  is  Mrs.  Poyser,  a 
woman  of  shrewd  observation,  and  as 
full  of  wise  saws  as  Sancho  Panza. 

Bedell.  The  Vicc-c/iaiicclhr's  hcdcll 
(not  beadle) .  The  officer  who  carries  the 
mace  before  the  Vice-Chancellor,  etc., 
in  the  universities  is  not  a  beadle  but  a 
liedell  (the  same  word  in  an  older  form). 

Be'der.  A  valley  famous  for  the 
victory  gained  by  Mahomet,  in  which 
"  ho  was  assisted  by  3,000  angels,  led  by 
Gabriel,  mounted  on  his  horse  Ilaizum." 
{Al  Koran.) 

Bcdcy.  King  of  Persia,  who  married 
Giauha're,  daughter  of  the  most  power- 
ful of  the  under- sea  emperors.  Queen 
Labe  tried  to  change  him  into  a  horse, 
but  he  changed  her  into  a  mare  instead. 
{Ara/)ian  Kighis,  '■^  Ijcder  and  Gian- 
harc.'''') 

Bedford.  Saxon,  Bcdeanforda  (for- 
tress ford) — that  is,  the  ford  at  the 
fortress  of  the  river  Ouse. 

Bedford  Level.  Land  drained  by 
the  Earl  of  Bedford  in  1049.  This  large 
tract  of  fenny  laud  lay  in  the  counties 
of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Cambridge,  Hunt- 
ingdonshire, Northamptonshire,  and 
Lincolnshire. 

Bedfordshire.  I  am  of'  to  Bedford- 
shire. To  tlie  land  of  Nod,  to  bed.  The 
language  abounds  with  tlicse  pims, 
e.g.  "the  marrowbone  stage,"  "A 
Dunse  scholar,"  "Knight  of  the  beer- 
barrel,"  "  Admiral  of  the  blue,"  "Mas- 
tor  of  the  Mint"  {c[.r.),  "Master  of 
the  Rolls"  (q.r.),  etc.  And  the  French 
even  more  than  the  English. 

Bed'iver.  A  knight  of  the  Round 
Table,  and  the  butler  of  King  Arthur. 

Bedlam.  A  lunatic  asylum  or  mad- 
house ;  a  contraction  for  Bethlehem,  the 
name  of  a  religious  house  in  London, 
converted  into  a  hospital  for  lunatics. 

Tom  o'  Bedlam.     {'See  Tom.) 

".■  St.  Mary  of  Betlileliem,  Lcmilnn,  was  fouiuleil 
as  a  priory  in  1lM7,  .and  in  Vi\~  it  was  {,'iven  tn  ilie 
iiiaynv  and  corjioration  of  London,  and  incorpor- 
ated as  a  royal  f oundatiou  for  lunatics. 

Bedlamite  (3  syl.).  A  madman,  a 
fool,  an  inhabitant  of  a  Bedlam. 

Bedouins  [Bed  xcins].  The  homeless 
street  poor  are  so  called.  Thus  the 
Times  calls  the  ragged,  houseless  boys 
"the  Bedouins  of  London."  The 
Bedouins    are    the    nomadic    tribes    of 


Arabia  (Arabic,    bedairhi,   a  dweller  in 
a  desert ;  bad  a;  a  desert).     {tSee  Street 

Aeabs.) 

"  Tliese  Bedouins  of  tbp  prairie  invarialily  carry 
tlicir  lodtrcs  with  t\icm."—.i.  T).  liichardsou  :  Be- 
yond llie  .Vissit^sipiii,  chaii.  v. 

Bedreddin'  Hassan,  in  the  story 
of  Xvar'rddm'  and  his  ISon,  in  the 
Arabian  Xights. 

"('(nuparinfe'liprself  to  Bedreddin  Hassan,  wlioni 
tlievi/.ier  .  .  .  discovered  by  liis  superlative  skill 
in  coMuiosini;  cream-tarts  without  pepper  in 
tliein."— .Seo«;  llcait  of  indlothian. 

Bed-rook.  American  slang  for  one's 
last  shilling.  A  miner's  terra,  called  in 
England  the  "  stone-head, "  and  in 
America,  the  "Bed-rock,"  the  hard 
b;isis  rock.  When  miners  get  to  this 
bed  the  mine  is  exhau.'^tcd.  "I'm  come 
down  to  the  bed-rock,"  i.e.  my  last 
dollar. 

"'No,  no!'  continnoil  Tennessee's  partner, 
hastily,  '  I'll  play  this  yer  hand  alone.  I've  come 
down  to  the  bed-rock  ;  it's  just  this:  Tennessee, 
thar,  has  played  it  pretty  rouyh  and  expensive, 
like,  on  a  stranger.  .  .  .  Now  what's  the  fair 
thing?  Some  would  say  more,  and  some  w(nild 
say  less.  Here's  seventeen  hundred  dollars  in 
coarse  gold  and  a  watch— it's  alKuit  all  my  pile  — 
and  call  it  S(iuare.' "— lircf  Unite:  Tciuwssct's 
Piirtner. 

Bedver.  King  Arthur's  butler ; 
Caius  or  Kaye  was  his  sewer.  {Oeoffreg  : 
British  Ilistorg,  ix.  13.) 

Bee.  TJie  Athenian  Bee.  Plato.  (See 
Athenian  Bee,  page  72,  col.  1.) 

It  is  said  that  when  Plato  was  in  his 
cradle,  a  swarm  of  bees  alighted  on  his 
mouth.  The  story  is  good  enough  for 
poets  and  orators.  The  same  tale  is 
told  of  St.  Ambrose.  {See  Ambeose, 
page  41,  col.  1.) 

Tlie  Bee  of  Athens.  Soph'oclGs.  {S(-c 
Attic  Bee,  page  73,  col.  1.) 

Xenophon  (b.c.  444-3.59)  is  also  called 
"the  Bee  of  Athens,"  or  "  the  Athen- 
ian Bee." 

V  See  also  Animals  (Symbolical), 
page  50,  col.  2. 

To  hare  your  head  fall  of  hees.  Full 
of  devices,  crotchets,  fancies,  inventions, 
and  dreamy  theories.  The  connection 
between  bees  and  the  soul  was  once 
generally  maintained  :  hence  Mahomet 
admits  bees  to  Paradise.  Porphyry  says 
of  fountains,  ' '  they  are  adapted  to  the 
nymphs,  or  those  souls  which  Ihe  an- 
cients called  bees."  The  moon  was 
called  a  bee  by  the  priestesses  of  Ceres, 
and  the  word  lunatic  or  moon-struck 
still  means  one  with  "  bees  in  his  head." 

"  II  a  di'S  rats  dans  la  {He."— French  Proverb. 

{See  Maggot.) 

To  hare  a  bee  in.  goiir  bonnet.  To  be 
cranky  ;  to  have  an  idiosyncrasy  ;  also, 


Bee 


115 


Beefeaters 


to  caiTy  a  jewel  or  ornament  in  your 
cap.     {See  Biohes.) 

"  For  pity,  sir,  find  out  tliut  l>ee 
Tli;it  liiire  )ny  love  away— 
'  I'll  seek  liiiu  in  your  bonnet  brave.'  .  .  ." 
lleirick:  The  Mad  Maid's  Hony. 

Bee.  A  social  gathering  for  some 
useful  work.  The  object  generally  pre- 
cedes the  word,  as  a  spelling  -  bee  (a 
gathering  to  compete  in  sioelling).  There 
are  apple-bees,  husking-bees,  and  half 
a  dozen  other  sorts  of  bees  or  gatherings. 
It  is  an  old  Devonshire  custom,  which 
was  carried  across  the  Atlantic  in  Eliza- 
bethan times. 

Bee-line.  The  line  that  a  bee  takes 
in  making  for  the  hive ;  the  shortest 
distance  between  two  given  points. 

"Our  footmarks,  seen  afterwards,  showed  that 
we  had  steered  a  bee-line  to  the  brig."— /i'oNe; 
Arctic  Explorations,  vol.  i.  chap.  xvii.  p.  198. 

Bees. 

Jupiter  was  novurished  by  bees  in  in- 
fancy.    (iSVeATHENI-ixBEE,  p.  72,  col.  1.) 

Pindar  is  said  to  have  been  nourished 
by  bees  with  honey  instead  of  milk. 

The  coins  of  Ephesus  had  a  bee  on  tlie 
reverse. 

The  Greeks  consecrated  bees  to  the 
moon. 

With  the  Romans  a  flight  of  bees  was 
considered  a  bad  omen.  Apj^iau  {Civil 
ll'dr,  book  ii.)  says  a  swarm  of  bees 
lighted  on  the  altar  and  prognosticated 
the  fatal  issue  of  the  battle  of  Phai'salla. 

The  priestesses  of  Ceres  were  called 
bees. 

In  Christian  Art  St.  Ambrose  is  repre  - 
sented  with  a  beehive,  from  the  tradi- 
tion that  a  swarm  of  bees  settled  on  liis 
moutli  in  his  infancy. 

Beef,  Ox.  Tlte  former  is  Norman, 
and  tlie  latter  Saxon.  The  Normans 
had  the  cooked  meat,  and  when  set 
before  tliem  used  the  word  they  were 
accustomed  to.  The  Saxon  was  the 
herdsman,  and  while  the  beast  was  under 
his  charge  called  it  by  its  Saxon  name. 

"Old  Alderman  Ox  continues  to  hold  his  Sax(ni 
title  while  he  is  under  the  charge  of  serfs  and 
liondsiuen  ;  but  becomes  Beef,  a  fiery  French 
gallant,  when  he  arrives  before  the  worshipful 
jaws  that  are  destined  to  consume  bin"!."— /ra7i7io(>. 

Wearer'' s  beef  of  Colchester,  i.e.  sprats, 
caught  abundantiyin  the  neighbourhood, 

( Fuller  :    IForth ies. ) 

Beefeaters.  Yeomen  of  the  Gruard 
in  the  royal  household,  appointed,  in 
1485,  by  Henry  VII.,  to  form  part  of 
the  royal  train  in  banquets  and  other 
grand  occasions.  The  old  theory  was 
that  the  word  means  "an  attendant  on 
the    royal     buffets,"    Anglicised    into 


hiiffeters  or  huffeteem,  and  corrupted  into 
Beefeaters  ;  but  Professor  Skeat  says  no 
such  word  as  haffeter  has  yet  been  found 
in  any  book ;  nor  does  hijj'etier  exist  in 
French. 

A  plausible  reply  to  tliis  objection  is  that 
the  word  may  have  got  corrupted  almost 
ub  initio  in  those  unlettered  days ;  and 
the  earliest  quotation  of  "Beefeater," 
already  adduced,  is  above  160  years  from 
tlie  institution  of  the  force,  and  even 
then  the  allusions  are  either  satirical  or 
humorous  :  as  "  Begone,  yee  greedy 
beefe-eaters,  y'  are  best "  {Histrio- 
inastix,  in.  1;  a.d.  1610);  "Bows,  or 
Beefeaters,  as  the  French  were  jileased 
to  tei-me  us  "  (1628)  ;  "You  beef-eater, 
you  saucy  cur  "  (1671).  Not  one  of  the 
quotations  fixes  the  word  on  the  Yeomen 
of  the  Guard,  and  that  the  English  have 
been  called  Beefeaters  none  will  deny. 
Even  if  the  allusion  given  above  could 
be  certainly  affixed  to  Yeonieu  of  the 
Guard  it  would  only  prove  that  150  or 
IGO  years  after  their  establishment  in 
the  palace  tliey  were  so  called  (corruptly, 
humorously  or  otherwise). 

Arffumoits  infarour  of  the  old  deriva- 
tion :  — 

(1)  Certainly  Henry  VII.  himself  did 
not  call  these  yeomen  "beef-eaters." 
He  was  as  much  French  as  Welsh,  and 
must  have  been  familiar  with  the  buffet 
{hii-fey) ;  he  had  no  spark  of  humour  in 
his  constitution,  and  it  is  extremely 
doubtful  whether  beef  was  a  standing 
dish  at  the  time,  certainly  it  was  not  so 
in  Wales.  We  liave  a  good  number  of 
iiienas  extant  of  the  period,  but  beef  does 
not  appear  in  any  of  them. 

(2)  We  have  a  host  of  similar  corrup- 
tions in  our  language,  as  Andrew  Macs 
{q.v.),  Bilhf-ruJIians  {sec  Belleeophon), 
Bull  and  Mouth  {q.v.),  Cliarlcs's  Jfaiii 
{q.v.),  Bag-o''-Xails,  Goat  and  Compasses, 
tiparroiv -grass  (asparagus),  ancient  (en- 
sign), lutestring  (lustring,  from  lustre), 
iJog-clieap  (god-kejie,  i.e.  a  good  bar- 
gain), and  many  more  of  the  same  sort. 

(3)  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
"  beefeaters  "  waited  at  the  roj^al  table, 

■  for  in  1602  we  read  that  "the  dishes 
were  brought  in  by  the  halberdiers 
[beefeaters],  who  are  fine,  big  fellows  " 
(quoted  in  Notes  and  Queries,  February 
-1th,  1893,  p.  86). 

(4)  If  beef  was  a  general  food  in  the 
sixteenth  century,  which  is  extremely 
doubtful,  it  would  be  supremely  ridic- 
ulous to  call  a  few  yeomen  "eaters  of 
beef,"  unless  beef  was  restricted  to 
them.  In  the  present  Argentine  Re- 
public, beef  dried,  called  "  jerked  beef," 


Beef-steak  Club 


116 


Before  the  Mast 


is  the  common  diet,  aud  it  would  be 
foolish  indeed  to  restrict  the  jilirase 
"eaters  of  jerked  beef"  to  some  hulf- 
score  waiters  at  the  President's  table. 

(5)  That  the  word  htiWctvcr  or 
hnffclicr  is  not  to  be  found  (in  the 
Euglisli  sense)  in  any  French  author, 
does  not  prove  that  it  was  never  used 
in  Anglo-French.  We  liave  scores  of 
perverted  French  words,  with  English 
meanings,  unrecognised  by  the  French  ; 
for  examjjle :  oicore,  double  entendre, 
siirtout  (a  frock  coat),  cpcrgne,  and  so  on. 

(6)  Historic  etj-mology  has  its  value, 
but,  like  all  other  general  rules,  it  re- 
(iuires  to  be  naiTowly  watched,  or  it  may 
not  unfrequeiitly  over-ride  the  truth. 
Historically,  Home  comes  from  Komulus, 
iSeotlaiid  from  Scota  or  Scotia,  Jtritnin 
from  Brutus.  All  sorts  of  rubbishy 
etymology  belong  to  tlie  liistoiic  craze. 

Jieefeatem.  Yeomen  Extraordiuaiy  of 
the  (ifnard  appointed  as  warders  of  tlxe 
Tower  by  Edward  VI.  They  wear  tlie 
same  costume  as  the  Yeomen  of  the 
Guard  mentioned  above.  {Hee  Bupha- 
GOS.) 

Beef-steak  Club  owed  its  origin  to 
an  accidental  dinner  taken  by  Lord 
Peterboi'ough  in  the  sceiiie-room  of  Kich, 
over  Covcnt  Garden  Theatre.  The 
original  gridiron  on  which  Rich  broiled 
the  peer's  steak  is  still  preserved  in  the 
palhulium  of  the  club,  and  the  members 
have  it  eugiaved  on  their  buttons. 
{History  of  the  Clubs  of  London.) 

Beefington  or  Milor  Beefington,  a 
cliaracter  m  Canning's  mock  tragedy, 
'llw  Jiorer.s,  a  burlesque,  in  the  Anti- 
Jaeohin,  on  the  sentimental  German 
dramas  of  the  period.  '  Casimere  is  a 
Polish  emigrant,  and  Beefiugtou  an 
English  nobleman,  exiled  by  the  tyranny 
of  King  John. 

Beelzebub.  God  of  flies,  supposed 
to  ward  off  flies  from  his  votaries.  One 
of  the  gods  of  the  Pliilistines.  {See 
ACHOE.)  The  Greeks  had  a  similar  deity, 
Zeus  Apomi/'ios.  The  Jews,  by  way  of 
reproach,  changed  Beelzebub  iuto  Baal 
Zeboub  (q.v.),  aud  placed  him  among 
the  da?mous.  Milton  says  he  was  next 
in  rauk  to  Satan,  and  stood 

"  With  Atlante'an  slioiilders.  fit  to  l>ear 
The  weight  ol  iiiightiest  luonarcliies." 

(Book  ii.) 
"  One  next  himself  in  power,  and  next  in  crime, 
Lonsr  after  kuimu  in  Palestine,  and  nameil 
Beelzeliul)."  J'arudise  Lost,  i.  7y-81. 

Beer.  Ceres,  when  wandering  over 
the  earth  in  quest  of  her  daughter, 
taught  men  the  ai't  of  making  beer, 
because  "(7s  ine  nepurent  apprenclre  Vart 


de  fa'ire  le  t'j«."  {Mem.  dc  VAcademie 
des  Iiiscri2)tiones,  xvii.)     {See  Ale.) 

He  docs  not  th'uik  small  beer  of  himnelf. 
{See  Small  Bekr.] 

Beer  and  Skittles.    Life  is  not  all 

beer  and  skitl/is,  i.e.  not  all  eating, 
drinking,  and  i>lay  ;  not  all  pleasure ; 
not  all  harmony  and  love. 

'■  .-^i'  >rt  like  life,  ami  life  like  9p<jrt, 
Isu'l  all  skililertaml  heer." 

Beer  aux  Mouches,  or  Jleer  anx  cor- 
neilles.  To  stand  gaping  in  the  air  (at 
the  flics  or  the  rooks).  Jteer,  Old 
Freiu'h  for  bai/er,  to  gape. 

Beeswing.  The  tilm  wliich  forms  on 
the  sides  of  a  bottle  of  good  old  jiort. 
This  fllm,  broken  up  into  small  pieces, 
looks  like  the  wings  of  bees.  A  i)ort 
drinker  is  very  particular  not  to  "  break 
tlie  beeswing"  by  shaking  the  bottle,  or 
turning  it  the  wrong  way  up. 

■.■  neeswintfeil  i">rt  is  olil  port  which  h.isfiinned 
its  soconil  crust  or  lieeswiiii,'. 

Beetle  {To).  To  overliang,  to 
threaten,  to  jut  over  (Anglo-Saxon, 
beot-ian,  to  menace).  Hence  beetle  or 
beetled  brow, 

"  Or  to  the  dreadful  summit  of  the  clilT, 
That  heetles  o'er  his  Pase  into  the  sesi." 
Slidkenpeare :  Hamlet,  i.  4. 

Beetle-crusher.  A  large,  flat  foot. 
The  expression  was  fii^st  used  in  I'uiu/i, 
in  one  of  Leedi's  caricatiu'cs.  Those 
who  know  London  know  liow  it  is  over- 
run with  cockroaclies,  wrongly  called 
black-beetles. 

Befana.  The  good  fairy  of  Italian 
children,  who  is  supposed  to  fill  their 
stockings  with  toj's  when  they  go  to  lied 
on  Twelftli  Night.  Some  one  enters  the 
children's  bedroom  for  tlie  purpose,  and 
the  wakeful  j'oungsters  cry  out,  "/>co 
la  Jiefa')ia.'"  'According  to  legend, 
Befana  was  too  busy  with  house  aftairs 
to  look  after  the  Magi  when  they  went 
to  offer  their  gifts,  and  said  she  would  { 
wait  to  see  them  on  their  return ;  but  ^ 
they  went  another  way,  and  Befana, 
every  Twelfth  Night,  watches  to  see 
them.  The  name  is  a  corruiitiou  of 
Epipliania. 

Before  the  Lights,  in  theatrical  par- 
lance, means  on  the  stage,  before  the 
foot-lights. 

Before  the  Mast.  To  serve  before  the 
onast.  To  be  one  of  the  common  sailors, 
whose  quarters  are  in  the  forward  part  of 
the  ship.  Tlie  half-deck  is  the  sanctum 
of  the  second  mate,  and,  in  Greenland 
fishers,  of  the  spikeoneer,   harpooners, 


Beg  the  Question 


117 


B^guins 


carpenters,  coopers,  boatswains,  and  all 
secondary  officers  ;  of  low  birth. 

"  I  myself  cmiie  from  before  the  mast."— .Sir  11'. 
Scdtt :  Tlie  Antiqitiiiii,  cliap.  xx. 

Beg  the  Question  (To).  (See  Beg- 
ging.) 

Beggar.  A  hcgcjar  ma;/  suiff  before  a 
pivkpockit.  (In  Latin,  '■'■  Cantubit  racuits 
coram  latrone  liafor.''  )  A  beggar  may 
sing  before  a  highwayman  because  he 
has  nothing  in  his  pocket  to  lose. 

Set  a  beggar  on  horseback,  and  he'll  ride 
to  the  de^il.  There  is  no  one  so  proud 
and  arrogant  as  a  beggar  who  has  sud- 
denly grown  rich. 

"Such  is  tlie  sail  etfect  of  wejilth— rank  pride— 
Mount  hut  a  liej-'nar,  how  the  rogue  will  riile  !" 
I'eler  Pindar :  ^pintle  to  Lord  Lonsdale. 

Latin  :  "  Asperius  nihil  est  humili  cum 
surgit  in  altum." 

Irench :  "II  n'est  orgueil  que  de 
pauvre  enrichi." 

Kalian  :  "II  vilan  nobihtado  non  con- 
nosce  il  parentado  "  (A  beggar  ennobled 
does  not  know  his  own  kinstneu). 

Spanish  :  "  Quaudo  el  villano  est/i  en 
el  nmlo,  non  couoze  a  dios,  ni  al  mundo  " 
(vvlien  a  beggar  is  mounted  on  a  mule, 
he  knows  neither  gods  nor  men). 

Beggars.  Kinq  of  theliefiqars.  Bamp- 
fylde  Moore  Carew"(1693-l'770). 

Beggars  should  not  be  choosers.  Beggars 
sliouid  take  what  is  given  them,  and 
not  dictate  to  the  giver  what  they  like 
best.  They  must  accept  and  be  thank- 
ful. 

Beggars'  Barm.  The  thick  foam 
whicli  collects  on  the  surface  of  ponds, 
brooks,  and  other  pieces  of  water  where 
the  current  meets  stoppage.  It  looks 
Uke  barm  or  yeast,  but,  being  unfit  for 
use,  is  only  beggarly  barm  at  best. 

Beggars'  Bullets.    Stones. 

Beggar's  Bush.  To  go  hij  beggar's 
bush,  or  do  lioinc  bg  beggar's  bush — i.e.  to 
go  to  ruin.  Beggar's  bush  is  the  name 
of  a  tree  which  once  stood  on  the  left 
hand  of  the  London  road  from  Hunting- 
don to  Caxton  ;  so  called  because  it  was 
a  noted  rendezvous  for  beggars.  These 
punning  phrases  and  proverbs  are  very 
common. 

Beggar's  Daughter.  Bessee,  the 
beggar's  daughter  of  Bed  nail  Green. 
Bessee  was  very  beautiful,  and  was 
courted  by  four  suitors  at  once — a 
knight,  a  gentleman  of  fortune,  a  Lon- 
don merchant,  and  the  son  of  the  inn- 
keeper at  Romford.  She  told  them  that 
they  must  obtain  the  consent  of  her 
father,  the  poor  blind  beggar  of  Bethnal 


Green.  When  they  heard  that,  they  all 
slunk  off  except  the  knight,  who  went 
to  ask  the  beggar's  leave  to  wed  the 
"  pretty  Bessee."  The  beggar  gave  her 
.£3,000  for  her  dower,  and  £100  to  buy 
her  wedding  gown.  At  the  wedding 
feast  he  explained  to  the  guests  that  he 
was  Henry,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Simon 
de  Montfort.  At  the  battle  of  Evesham 
the  liarons  were  routed,  Montfort  slain, 
and  himself  left  on  the  field  for  dead. 
A  baron's  daughter  discovered  him, 
nursed  him  with  care,  and  married  him; 
the  fruit  of  this  marriage  was  "pretty 
Bessee."  Henry  de  Montfort  assumed 
the  garb  and  semblance  of  a  beggar  to 
escape  the  vigilance  of  King  Henry's 
spies,     (rerci/ :  Iteliqacs.) 

Begging  Hermits  were  of  the  Au- 
gustine nnliT :  thcj'  reiiounccil  all  pro- 
perty, and  lived  on  the  voluntary  abns 
of  "'the  faithful." 

V  Begging  Friars  were  restricted  to 
four  orders:  Franciscans  (Grey  Friars), 
Augustincs  {Black  Friars),  Camielites 
{White  Friars),  and  Dominicans  {Preach- 
ing Friars). 

Begging  the  Question.  Assuming 
a  proposition  which,  in  reality,  involves 
the  conclusion.  Thus,  to  say  that  ])ar- 
allcl  lines  will  never  meet  because  they 
are  parallel,  is  simply  to  assume  as  a 
fact  the  very  thing  you  profess  to  prove, 
llie  phrase  is  a  translation  of  the  Latin 
term,  petifio  princip'ii,  and  was  first 
used  by  Ari>;totle. 

Beghards.  A  brotherhood  which 
rose  in  the  Low  Countries  in  the  twelfth 
century,  and  was  so  called  from  Lambert 
B^gue.  The  male  society  were  Beg- 
hards, the  female,  Beguins.  They  took 
no  vows,  and  were  free  to  leave  the 
society  when  they  liked.  In  the  seven- 
teenth century,  those  who  survived  the 
persecutions  of  the  popes  and  inquisition 
joined  the  Tertiarii  of  the  Franciscans. 
{See  Beguins.) 

Begtash'i.  A  religious  order  in  the 
Ottoman  Empire,  which  had  its  origin 
in  the  fourteenth  century.  The  word  is 
derived  from  Hadji  Begtash,  a  dervish, 
its  founder. 

Begue  d'entendement.  This  is  a 
really  happ}-  phra.'^e  for  one  whose  wits 
are  gone  wool-gatheiing  ;  he  is  a  man 
of  "  stammering  understanding." 

Beguins.  A  sisterhood  instituted 
in  the  twelfth  centurj',  founded  by 
Lambert  Begue  or  Lambert  le  Begue. 
The  members  of  the  male  society  were 


Begum 


118 


Belial 


called  Beghards  (</.?'.)•  The  Beguins 
were  at  liberty  to  quit  the  cloister, 
if  they  chose,  and  maiTy.  The  cap 
called  a  begitin  was  named  from  this 
sisterhood. 

"Secta  qiiKdam  pestifera  illorum  qui  Beguiui 
vulgariter  apiiellautur,  qui  Be  Fratres  Pauperes 
de  tertia  ordine  S.  Francisci  commuuiter  nomina; 
bant,  ex  quilAis  plures  f  uerunt  tanquam  lia?retici 
condemnati  et  combusti."— -BenMird  Gnido:  Life 
of  John,  xxii. 

Begum.  A  lady,  princess,  or  woman 
of  high  rank  in  India ;  the  wife  of  a 
ruler.  {ilci/  or  Bcff,  governor  of  a 
Turkish  iirovince,  a  title  of  honour. ) 

Behe'moth  (Hebrew).  The  hippo- 
pot'amus ;  once  thought  to  be  the  rhino- 
ceros.    (See  Job  xl.  15.) 

"  Bobdid  !  iu  plaited  mail, 
Behe'moth  rears  his  head." 

Thomson  :  Summer,  7TO,  7P1. 

V  The  word  is  generally,  but  incor- 
rectly, pronounced  Be'hemoth  ;  but  Mil- 
ton, like  Thomson,  places  the  accent  on 
the  second  syllable. 

"  Scarce  from  liis  mnld 
I       Behemoth,  In.ngest  born  of  earth,  upliejived 
[   His  vastness."    ililton_:  Paradise  Lost,  vii.  471. 

Beb'menists.  A  sect  of  visionary 
religionists,  so  called  from  Jacob  Beh- 
men  (Bohme),  their  foimder.  (1575- 
1625.) 

Behram.  Tlio  most  holy  kind  of 
fire,  according  to  Parseeism.     (See  Ada- 

EAN.) 

Be  Jan.  A  freshman  or  greenhorn. 
This  term  is  employed  in  the  French  and 
Scotch  universities,  and  is  evidently  a 
corruption  of  dec  Jaime  (yellow  beak), 
a  French  expression  to  designate  a 
nestling  or  unfledged  bird.  In  the 
university  of  Vienna  the  freshman  is 
termed  beaiiiis,  and  in  France  footing- 
money  is  hejaunla. 

"  His  grandmother  yielded,  and  Robert  was 
straightway  a  l)ejan  or  yellow-ljeak."— J/flcrfo»aZ;/; 
R.  Falconer. 

Bel-^-faire-peur.  A  handsome,  dare- 
devil of  a  fellow. 

Bel  Esprit  (French).  A  vivacious 
wit ;  a  man  or  woman  of  quick  and 
livelj^  parts,  ready  at  repartee.     (Plural, 

beaux  cuprits.) 

Belch.  Sir  Tohij  Belch.  A  reckless, 
roistering,  jolly  knight  of  the  Eliza- 
bethan period.  {Shakcapeare :  Tirelflh 
Mr/ /it.) 

Belcher.  A  pocket-handkerchief — 
properly,  a  blue  ground  with  white 
spots ;  so  called  from  Jim  Belcher,  the 
pugilist,  who  adopted  it. 


Beldam.  An  old  woman  ;  literally, 
a  grandmother.  The  French  also  use  bel 
(i(/e  for  old  age. 

"  Old  men  and  beldames  in  the  streets 
Do  iiropbesy  upon  it  dangerously." 

Shakespeare :  Kimj  John,  iv.  2. 

Bele'ses  (3  syl.).  A  Chaldean  sooth- 
sayer and  Assyrian  satrap,  who  told 
Arba'ces,  governor  of  Me'dia,  that  he 
would  one  day  sit  on  the  throne  of  Sar- 
danapa'lus,  King  of  Nineveh  and  As- 
syria. His  prophecy  was  verified,  and 
he  was  rewarded  by  Arba'ces  with  the 
government  of  Babylon.  {Ili/ron  :  Sar- 
(koiapa/ii.s.) 

Belfast  Regiment  {T/ic).  The  35th 
Foot,  which  was  raised  in  Belfast  in 
1701.  There  is  no  such  regiment  now 
in  the  British  Army.  What  used  to  be 
called  No.  35  is  now  called  the  1st  ))at- 
talion  of  the  Royal  Sussex,  the  l2nd 
battalion  being  the  old  No.  107. 

Bel-fires.  Bctu-een  BeVs  tiro  fires. 
Scylla  on  one  side  and  Charybdis  on  the 
other.  In  Irish,  Itter  dha  trine  Bhcit, 
in  a  dilemma.  The  reference  is  to  the 
two  fires  kindled  on  May  Eve  in  every 
village,  between  which  all  men  and 
beasts  devoted  to  sacrifice  were  com- 
pelled to  imss. 

Bel'ford.  A  friend  of  Lovelace  iu 
Bichardson's  Clarhsn  llarJuire.  These 
"friends"  made  a  covenant  to  pardon 
every  sort  of  liberty  which  they  took 
with  each  other. 

Belfry.  A  military  tower,  pushed 
by  besiegers  against  the  wall  of  a  be- 
sieged city,  that  missiles  may  be  thrown 
more  easily  against  the  defenders.  Pro- 
bably a  church  steeple  is  called  a  belfry 
from  its  resemblance  to  these  towers, 
and  not  because  bells  are  hung  in  it. 
(French,  befroiy  a  watch-towei'.  Old 
French,  herfreit,  bclrfrelf,  from  German, 
berfi-frif,  bergen,  to  protect, /rii  \rr'ule\, 
a  place  fenced  iu  for  security.) 

"Alone,  and  warniin£r  his  Are  viits. 
The  white  owl  in  the  belfry  sitsy 

Tcniiijsoii :  The  Old,  stanza  1. 

Belial  (Hebrew).  The  worthless  or 
lawless  one,  i.e.  the  devil.  Milton,  in 
his  pandemonium,  makes  him  a  very 
high  and  distinguished  prince  of  dark- 
ness.    (Paradise  Lost.) 

"What   concord  hath  Christ  with  Belial?"— 2 
Cor.  vi.  15. 
"  Belial  came  last— than  whom  a  spirit  more  lewd 

Fell  not  from  heaven,  or  more  gross  to  love 

Vice  for  itself." 

Milton  :  rarndise  Lost,  book  i.  490-2. 

Sons  of  Belial.  Lawless,  worthless, 
rebellious  jjeople.     (See  above.) 

"Now  the  sons  of  Eli  were  s.iu3  of  Belial."— 
1  Sam.  il.  1.'. 


Belinda 


119 


Bells 


Belin'da.  The  heroine  of  Pope's 
serio-comical  poem,  entitled  the  liape 
of  the  Lock.  The  poem  is  based  on  a 
real  incident : — Lord  Pctre  cut  off  a  lock 
of  Miss  Fermor's  hair,  and  this  liberty 
gave  rise  to  a  bitter  feud  between  the 
two  noble  famihes.  The  poet  says  that 
Belinda  wore  on  her  neck  two  curls,  one 
of  which  the  baron  cut  off  with  a  jjair  of 
scissors  borrowed  of  Clarissa.  Belinda, 
in  auger,  demanded  back  the  ringlet ; 
but  it  had  flown  to  the  skies  and  become 
a  meteor,  which  ' '  shot  through  liquid 
ail',  and  drew  behind  a  radiant  trail  of 
hair."     (6'ftf  Berenice.) 

Belinun'cia.  A  herb  sacred  to  Belis, 
with  the  juice  of  which  the  Gauls  used 
to  poison  their  arrows. 

Belisa'rius.  Sclisaiins  hcyyuHj  for 
an  oh'oltia.  Belisa'rius,  the  greate.st  of 
Justiniaus  generals,  being  accused  of 
conspiring  against  the  life  of  the 
emperor,  was  depi'ived  of  all  his 
property ;  and  his  eyes  being  put 
out,  he  lived  a  beggar  iu  Constan- 
tinople. The  tale  is  that  he  fastened 
a  bag  to  his  road-side  hut,  and  had 
inscribed  over  it,  "  Grive  an  obolus  to 
poor  old  Belisarius."  This  tradition  is 
of  no  historic  value. 

Bell.  Acton,  Ciiito;  and  Ullis.  As- 
sumed names  of  Anne,  Charlotte,  and 
Emily  Bronte. 

Bell.  As  the  hell  cliiiks,  so  the  fool 
th'uikf,  or,  ^Ln  the  fool  thinks,  no  the  bell 
c/in/iS.  The  tale  says  when  Whitting- 
ton  ran  away  from  his  master,  and  had 
got  as  far  as  Houuslow  Heath,  he  was 
hungry,  tired,  and  wished  to  return. 
Bow  Bells  liegau  to  ring,  and  Whitting- 
ton  fancied  they  said,  "Turn  again, 
Whittington,  Lord  Mayor  of  London." 
The  bells  clinked  iu  response  to  the 
boy's  thoughts.  "  Zes  gens  de  peu  de 
jngement  mnt  commc  Ics  cloches,  a  qi/i 
Fon  fait  dire  tout  ce  que  Von  reuf.^' 
Dickens  has  the  same  idea  iu  his  Christ- 
mas Chimes. 

The  Fassinr/  Sell  is  the  hallowed  bell 
■which  used  to  be  rung  when  persons 
were  in  e.rtre'inis,  to  scare  awa}^  evil 
spirits  which  were  supposed  to  lurk 
about  the  dying,  to  pounce  on  the  soul 
while  ' '  passing  from  the  body  to  its 
resting-place."  A  secondary  object  was 
to  announce  to  the  neighbourhood  the 
fact  that  all  good  Christians  might  oft'er 
up  a  prayer  for  the  safe  passage  of  the 
dying  j)erson  into  Paradise.  We  now 
call  the  bell  rung  at  a  person's  decease 
the  "  passing  bell." 


The  Athenians  used  to  beat  on  brazen 
kettles  at  the  moment  of  a  decease  to 
scare  away  the  Furies. 

liitu/inff  the  hallowed  bell.  Bells  were 
believed  to  disperse  storms  and  jDesti- 
lence,  drive  away  devils,  and  extinguish 
fire.  In  France  it  is  still  by  no  means 
unusual  to  ring  church  bells  to  ward  off 
the  effects  of  lightning.  Nor  is  this 
peculiar  to  France,  for  even  in  18o'2  the 
Bishop  of  Malta  ordered  the  church  bells 
to  be  rung  for  au  hour  to  "  lay  a  gale 
of  wind."  Of  course,  the  supj^osed 
efficacy  of  a  bell  resides  iu  its  having 
been  consecrated. 

"  Ku'nera  iilaugo,  f iil'gura  f rango,  salj'hata  pangn, 
Ex'cito  leutos,  dis'sipu  veutos,  paco  crueutos." 

(Death's  tale  I  tell,  the  winds  dispel,  ill- feeliug 
(luell, 
The  slothful  shake,  the  stdrra-clouds  break,  the 
Sabbath  wake.    B.  C.  B.) 

{Sec  Ringing  the  Bells  Backwaeds.) 
Sound  as  a  bell.  (Sec  Similes.) 
Tolling  the  hell  {for  church).  A  relic 
of  the  Ave  Bell,  which,  before  the  Re- 
formation, was  tolled  before  service  to 
invite  worshippers  to  a  preparatory 
prayer  to  the  Virgin. 

To  bear  the  bell.  To  be  first  fiddle  :  to 
carry  off  the  palm  ;  to  be  the  best.  Be- 
fore cups  were  presented  to  winners  of 
horse-races,  etc.,  a  little  gold  or  silver 
bell  used  to  be  given  for  the  prize. 

"  Jnokey  and  his  horse  were  by  their  masters  seut 
To  put  in  fcir  the  bell.  .  .  . 
They  are  to  rim  and  caunnt  miss  the  ball." 

Kvitli :  Purest  of  Varieties. 

V  It  does  not  refer  to  bell-wethers, 
or  the  leading  horse  of  a  team,  but 
"  bear  "  means  bear  or  carry  off'. 

jrho  is  to  bell  the  cat  ?  Who  will  risk 
his  own  life  to  save  his  neighbours  'i 
Any  one  who  encounters  great  personal 
hazard  for  the  sake  of  others  uudertakes 
to  "  bell  the  cat."  The  allusion  is  to  the 
fable  of  the  cunning  old  mouse,  w'ho 
suggested  that  they  should  hang  a  bell 
on  the  cat's  neck  to  give  notice  to  all 
mice  of  her  approach.  "Excellent," 
said  a  wise  young  mouse,  "but  who  is 
to  undertake  the  job  'r "  {See  Bell-the- 
Cat.) 

"  Is  tliere  a  man  in  all  Spain  able  and  willing  to 
bell  the  cat  [/.e.  persuade  theciueen  toalKlinite]?'' 
—  The  Timest. 

Bells.  The  Koran  says  that  bells 
hang  on  the  trees  of  Paradise,  and  are 
set  in  motion  by  wind  from  the  throne 
of  God,  as  often  as  the  blessed  wish  for 
music.     {Sale.) 

"  Bells  as  musical 
As  those  that,  on  the  golden-shafted  trees 
Of  Eden,  shook  by  ihe  eternal  lireeze." 

T.  Moore:  Lalla  Bookh,  part  i. 


Bell,  Book,  and  Candle       120 


Bellarmine 


At  three  bells,  at  five  bells,  etc.  A 
term  ou  board  ship  pretty  nearly  tan- 
tamouut  to  our  expression  o'clock.  Five 
out  of  the  seven  watches  last  four  hours, 
and  each  half-hour  is  marked  by  a  bell, 
which  gives  a  number  of  strokes  corre- 
sjionding  to  the  number  of  half-hours 
passed.  Thus,  "  three  bells  ''  denotes 
the  tliird  lialf-hour  of  the  watch,  "  five 
bells  "  the  fifth  half-hour  of  the  watch, 
and  so  on.  The  two  short  watches, 
which  last  only  two  hours  each,  are 
from  four  to  six  and  six  to  eight  in 
the  afternoon.  At  eight  bells  a  new 
watch  begins.     {Sec  Watch.  ) 

"  Do  ynu  there  hear?  Clean  sbirt  and  a  shave 
for  muster  at  live  heWs,."— Basil  Uall. 

I'll  not  luing  all  iiii/  bells  on  one  horse. 
I'll  not  leave  all  my  property  to  one  son. 
The  allusion  is  manifest. 

Give  her  the  hells  anel  let  her  fiij. 
Don't  throw  good  money  after  bad ; 
make  the  best  of  the  matter,  liut  do 
not  attempt  to  bolster  it  w^.  When  a 
hawk  was  wortldess,  the  bells  were 
taken  off,  and  the  bu'd  was  suffered  to 
escape,  but  the  advice  given  above  is  to 
"  leave  the  bells  "  and  let  the  hawk  go. 

Rinf/lnfi  the  bells  backtcards,  is  ringing 
a  muf&ed  peal.  Baekicards  is  often  used 
to  denote  "in  a  contrary  direction" 
(toxt  le  contrairc),  as,  "  I  hear  you  are 
grown  rich— "  *' Yes,  backwards."  To 
riiHf  a  muffled  peal,  is  to  ring  a  peal 
of  sorrow,  not  oil  joy. 

V  In  olden  times  bells  were  rung 
backwards  as  a  tocsin,  or  notice  of 
danger. 

"Beacons  were  lighted  upon  crags  and  emi- 
nences ;  the  bells  were  rung  backwards  in  the 
churches ;  and  the  general  summons  to  arm 
announced  an  extremity  of  danger."— .Sir  11'.  Scott : 
The  betrothed,  chap.  iii. 

Like  sweet  bells  jangled,  out  of  tune 
and  harsh  {Hamlet,  iii.  1).  A  most  ex- 
quisite metaphor  for  a  deranged  mind, 
.  such  as  that  of  Don  Quixote. 

IVarivick  shakes  his  bells.  Beware  of 
danger,  for  Warwick  is  in  the  field. 
Trojans  beware,  Achilles  has  donned 
his  armour.  The  bells  mean  the  bells  of 
a  hawk,  the  hawk  shakes  his  bells. 

"  Neither  the  king,  nor  he  that  hives  liim  best, 
Dares  stir  a  wing,  if  Warwick  shakes  his  hells." 
Shakespeare :  3  Henry  T'/.,  i.  1. 

Bell,  Book,  and  Candle.  A  cere- 
mony in  the  greater  excomminiication 
iutroducetl  into  the  Catholic  Church  in 
the  eighth  century.  After  reading  the 
sentence  a  bell  is  rung,  a  book  closed, 
and  a  candle  extinguished.  From  that 
moment    the    excommunicated    person 


is    excluded   from  the  sacraments  and 
even  divine  worship. 

"Bell,  book,  and  candle  shall  not  drive  me 
^)!lck."—.Shal:efi>tare:  King  JuliH,  iii.  3. 

In  spite  of  bell,  book,  and  candle,  i.e. 
in  spite  of  all  the  opposition  which  the 
Christian  hierarchy  can  offer.  {See 
Cursing.) 

Bell  of  Patrick's  Will  {dor/  an 
eadhachta  Phatraic)  is  six  inches  high, 
five  broad,  and  four  deep.  It  certaitily 
was  in  existence  in  the  sixth  centurj\ 
In  tlie  eleventh  century  a  shrine  was 
made  for  it  of  gold  antl  silver  filigree, 
adorned  with  jewels. 

Bell  Savage,  or  La  BelleSauvagezr 
Pocahontas.  According  to  one  deriva- 
tion it  is  a  contraction  of  Isabelle  Savage, 
who  originally  kept  the  inn.  It  is  some- 
what remarkable  that  the  sign  of  the  inn 
was  a  pun  on  the  Christian  name,  a 
"  bell  on  the  Hope  "  (hoop),  as  may  be 
seen  in  the  Close  Roll  of  14.53.  The 
hoop  seems  to  have  formed  a  garter  or 
frame  to  most  signs.  The  site  of  the 
inn  is  now  occupied  by  tlie  premises  of 
Messrs.  Cassell  &  Co. 

"They  now  returned  to  their  inn.  the  famous 
Bell  .Savage."— <S'co(t;  Kciiilicorlh,  xiii. 

Bell-the-Cat.  Archibald  Douglas, 
Earl  of  Angus,  was  so  called.  James 
III.  made  favourites  of  architects  and 
masons.  One  mason,  named  Cochrane, 
he  created  Earl  of  Mar.  The  Scotch 
nobles  held  a  council  in  the  church  of 
Lauder  for  the  purpose  of  ptitting  down 
these  upstarts,  when  Lord  Gray  asked, 
' '  Who  will  bell  the  cat  •:-  "  "  Tliat  will 
I,"  said  Douglas,  and  he  fearlessl}^  put 
to  death,  in  the  king's  presence,  the 
obnoxious  minions.     {See  Bell.) 

Bell-"wavering.  Vacillating,  sway- 
ing from  side  to  side  Uke  a  bell.  A  man 
whose  mind  jangles  out  of  tune  from 
delirium,  drunkenness,  or  temj)orarj'  in- 
sanity, is  said  to  have  his  wits  gone  bell- 
wavering. 

"  [  d(nibt  me  his  wits  have  gone  liell-wavering 
1  ly  the  road."— S«-  W.  Scott :  The  Monastery,  chap, 
vii. 

Belladonna  (Italian,  beautiful  lad;/). 
This  name  was  given  to  the  Deadly 
Nightshade,  from  a  practice  once  com- 
mon among  ladies  of  touching  their 
eyes  with  it  to  make  the  pupils  large 
and  lustrous. 

Bell'armine  (./).  A  large  Flemish 
gotch,  i.e.  a  corpulent  beer-jug  of  some 
strong  ware,  originally  made  in  Flan- 
ders in  ridicule  of  Cardinal  Bellarmine, 
the  great  persecutor  of  the  reformed 
party  there.      These  jugs  had  at   the 


Bellaston 


121 


BeUy 


neck  a  rude  likeness  of  the  cardinal  with 
his  large,  square,  ecclesiastical  beard. 

"...  like  a  larfe'er  jug,  that  some  men  call 
A  bellariuiue  .  .  . 

"VVliereon  the  lewder  hand  of  pagan  •wnrkii  en, 
Over  the  proud  ambitious  head,  liath  carved 
An  idol  large,  with  beard  episcopal. 
Making  the  vessel  look  like  tyrant  Eglon." 
Cartright :  The  Ordinary. 

"  One  of  the  Fellows  of  Exeter  [College],  when 
Dr.  Prideaux  was  rector,  sent  his  servitor,  after 
nine  o'clock  at  night,  with  a  large  bottle  to  fetch 
some  ale  from  the  alehouse.  When  he  was  coming 
home  with  it  under  his  gown  the  proctor  met 
liini,  and  asked  him  what  he  did  out  so  late,  and 
what  he  had  under  his  gown  ?  The  man  answered 
that  his  master  had  sent  him  to  the  stationers  to 
borrow  HelUirmine,  which  book  he  had  under  his 
arm  ;  and  so  he  went  home.  Whence  a  bottle 
with  a  big  belly  is  called  a  BeUarmine  to  this  day, 
liK."—Oxoniana,  vol.  i.  p.  13J. 

Bell'aston  {Lady):  A  profligate, 
wliose  conduct  and  conversation  are 
a  life-like  photograjih  of  the  court 
'"beauties"  of  Louis  XV.  {Ficldunj  : 
Tom  Jones.) 

Belle.  A  beauty.  TJic  Belle  of  the 
room.  The  most  beautiful  lady  in  the 
rooju  (French). 

La  belle  France.  A  common  French 
phrase  applied  to  France,  as  "Merry 
England"  is  to  our  own  country. 

Belles  Lettres.  Polite  literature 
(Freuch) ;  similarly,  Bcaicx  arts,  the  fine 
arts. 

Bellefontaine  {Benedict).  The  most 
wealthy  farmer  of  Grand  Pre  {Xova 
Scotia)",  and  father  of  Evangeline.  When 
the  inhabitants  of  his  village  were 
exiled,  and  he  was  about  to  embark, 
he  died  of  a  broken  heart,  and  was 
buried  on  the  sea-shore.  (Lonfffellow  : 
Evanrjcliiie.) 

Beller'ophon.  One  of  the  ships 
which  took  part  in  the  Battle  of  the 
Nile,  and  was  called  by  the  English 
sailors  "  the  BuUy-ruffrau,"  or  "  Belly- 
ruff  rou." 

"  Why,  she  and  the  Bolly-ruffron  seem  to  have 
IM-ctry  well  shared  and  shared  alike."— C'a;//ai)( 
Mairiiat :  Poor  Jack,  chap.  xiii. 

Beller'ophon.  The  Joseph  of  Greek 
mythology ;  Anttea,  the  wiie  of  PrcB- 
tos,  being  the  "  Potiphar's  wife"  who 
tempted  him,  and  afterwards  falsely  ac- 
cused him.  Being  successful  in  various 
enterprises,  he  attempted  to  fly  to  heaven 
on  the  winged  horse  Peg'asos,  but  Zeus 
sent  a  gad-fly  to  sting  the  horse,  and 
the  rider  was  overthrown. 

Letters  of  Bcllerophon.  Letters  or 
other  documents  either  dangerous  or 
]irejudicial  to  the  bearer.  Proetos  sent 
Belierophon  with  a  letter  to  the  King  of 
Lycia,  his  wife's  father,  recounting  the 


charge,  and  praying  that  the  bearer 
might  be  put  to  death. 

Pausa'nias,  the  Spartan,  sent  messen- 
gers from  time  to  time  to  King  Xerxes, 
with  similar  letters  ;  the  discoveiy  by 
one  of  the  bearers  proved  the  ruin  of 
the  traitor. 

David's  letter  sent  by  Uriah  (2  Sam. 
xi.  14)  was  of  a  similar  treacherous  cha- 
racter ;  hence  the  phrase,  "Letters  of 
L^riah." 

Belle'rus.  Belle'rium  is  the  Land's 
End,  Cornwall,  the  fabled  land  of  the 
giant  Belle'rus. 

".Sleep'st  liy  the  fable  of  Bellerus  old." 

Hilton  :  Lycidas,  160. 

Bellicent.  Daughter  of  Gorloiseand 
Igerna.  According  to  Tennyson,  she 
was  the  wife  of  Lot,  King  of  Orkney ; 
but  in  La  3forte  eV Arthur  Margause  is 
called  Lot's  wife. 

Bellin.  The  ram,  in  the  tale  of 
Reynard  the  Fee. 

Belllsant.  Sister  to  King  Pepin  of 
Franco,  wife  of  Alexander,  Emperor  of 
Constantinofile.  Being  accused  of  in- 
fidelity, the  emperor  banished  her,  and 
she  became  the  mother  of  Valentine  and 
Orson.     (  Valentine  and  Orson.) 

Bellman.  Before  the  new  police  force 
was  established,  watchmen  or  bellmen 
used  to  parade  the  streets  at  night,  and 
at  Easter  a  copy  of  verses  was  left  at 
the  chief  houses  in  the  hope  of  obtain- 
ing an  offering.  These  verses  were  the 
relics  of  the  old  incantations  sung  or 
said  Ijy  the  bellman  to  keep  off  elves 
and  hobgoblins.     The  town  crier. 

Bello'na.  Goddess  of  war  and  wife 
of  Mars.     {Eoman  mythology.) 

"Her  features,  late  so  exuuisitely  lovely,  in- 
flamed with  the  furv  of  frenzy,  resembled  those 
of  a  Bi'llr)na."— .Sir  Waller  Svott. 

Bellows.  The  pit  of  the  stomacli. 
To  knock  a  man  on  the  "  bellows  "  takes 
his  "  wind  (breath)  away." 

AV//r/  old  rose  and  barn  the  belloics.    {See 

SlXG.) 

Bellwether  of  the  Fleck.  A  jocose 
and  rather  depreciating  term  applied  to 
the  leader  of  a  party.  Of  course  the 
allusion  is  to  the  wether  or  sheep  which 
leads  the  flock  -with  a  beU  fastened  to  its 
neck. 

Belly.  The  belly  and  its  members. 
The  fable  of  Meneiiius  Agrippa  to  the 
Eoman  people  when  they  seceded  to  the 
Sacred  Monnt :  "Once  on  a  time  the 
membtrs  refused  to  work  for  the  lazy 
billy;   but,  as  the  supply  of  food  was 


Belly-timber 


122 


Ben 


thus  stopped,  they  found  there  was  a 
necessary  aud  mutual  depeudeuce  be- 
tween them."  Shakespeare  introduces 
the  fable  in  his  Coriolanus,  i.  1. 

The  lellij  has  no  ears.  A  hungry  man 
will  not  listen  to  advice  or  arguments. 
The  Romans  had  the  same  proverb, 
Voitcr  noil  habet  aurcs  ;  and  in  French, 
Ventre  affaine  n''apoi)it  d^oreilles. 

Belly-timber.    Food. 

"  Ami  now,  Dame  Pevcril,  to  dinner,  to  dinner. 
The  old  fox  must  have  liis  belly-timner,  tliongh 
tlie  bounds  have  been  after  him  the  whole  day." 
Sir  W.  Scott:  Pevcril  of  the  Feak,  chap.  48. 

Belomancy  (Greek).  Divination  by 
arrows.  Labels  being  attached  to  a  given 
number  of  arrows,  the  archers  let  them 
tiy,  aud  the  advice  on  the  label  of  the 
arrow  which  flies  farthest  is  accepted  and 
acted  on.  This  practice  is  common  with 
the  Arab?. 

Beloved  Disciple.  St.  John.  (Jolin 
xiii.  23,  etc.) 

Beloved  Physician.  St,  Luke. 
(Col.  iv.  14.) 

Below  the  Belt.     {See  Belt.) 

Bel'phegor.  A  nasty,  licentious, 
obscene  fellow.  Bel-Phegor  was  a  Mo- 
abitish  deit}',  whose  I'ites  were  celebrated 
on  Mount  Phegor,  and  were  noted  for 
their  obscenity.  The  Standard,  speak- 
ing of  certain  museums  in  Loudon,  says, 
"  When  will  men  cease  to  be  deluded 
by  these  unscrupulous  Bel'phegors 'r  " 
(meaning  "  quacks  "). 

V  Phegor,  Phogor,  or  Peor,  a  famous 
mountain  beyond  the  Jordan.  Nebo 
aud  Pisgah  were  neighbouring  moun- 
tains. Beth-Pcor  is  refel'red  to  iu 
Deut.  iii.  29. 

Belphoebe,  meant  for  Queen  Eliza- 
beth. She  was  sister  of  Am'oret. 
Equally  chaste,  but  of  the  Diana  and 
Minerva  ty^je.  Cold  as  an  icicle,  pas- 
sionless, immovable.  She  is  a  white 
flower  without  iJerfume,  and  her  only 
tender  passion  is  that  of  chivalry. 
Like  a  moonbeam,  she  is  light  without 
warmth.  You  admire  her  as  you  admire 
a  marble  statue.  {Spenser :  Faerie 
Qncene,  book  iii.) 

Belt.  To  hit  below  the  leU.  To 
strike  unfairly.  It  is  prohibited  in 
prize-fighting  to  hit  below  the  waist- 
belt. 

To  call  men  knaves  and  fools,  to  charf-'o  a  man 
with  nepotism,  to  make  a  slanderous  report  wbicli 
is  not  actionable,  indeed  to  take  away  a  man's 
character  in  any  way  where  self-defence  is  im- 
possible, is  "  hitting  him  below  the  belt." 

"  Lord  Salislmry  hits  hard,  but  never  liits  behiw 
the  he\t.''— Daily  Tctcyraph,  November,  1885. 


To  hold  the  belt.  To  be  the  champion. 
In  pugilism,  etc.,  a  belt  is  passed  on  to 
the  champion. 

Bel'tane  (2  syl.).  A  festival  observed 
in  Ireland  on  June  21st,  and  iu  some 
parts  of  Scotland  on  May  Day.  A  fire 
is  kindled  on  the  hills,  and  the  yoimg 
peojile  daitce  round  it,  and  feast  on 
cakes  made  of  milk  and  eggs.  It  is 
supposed  to  be  a  relic  of  the  worship  of 
Baal.  The  word  is  Gaelic,  aud  means 
Jiel's  frc ;  and  the  cakes  are  called 
beltane-rakes. 

Belted  Knight.  The  right  of  wear- 
ing belt  and  sjmrs.  Even  to  the  present 
day  knights  of  the  shire  are  "  girt  with 
a  belt  and  sword,"  when  the  declaration 
of  their  election  is  ofticially  made. 

Belted  Will.  Lord  William  Howard, 
warden  of  the  western  marches  (156o- 
1640). 

"His  Biltjoa  blade,  bv  iiiiu'ilmieii  felt, 
HuuKina  br.. ad  ami  studded  hell; 
Hence,  in  nulc  plirasc,  the  liorderers  still 
Called  noble  How  ard  Belted  Will."  ,Seott. 

Belten'ebros.  Am'adis  of  Gaul  so 
calls  himself  after  he  retires  to  the  Poor 
Rock.  His  lady-love  is  Oria'ua.  [Ainadis 
of  Ga/il,  ii.  6.) 

Belvawney  {Miss),  of  the  Ports- 
mouth theatre.  She  always  took  the 
part  of  a  page,  and  wore  tights  and  silk 
stockings.  {lUckens  :  Nicholas  Kieklcbif, 
1838.) 

Belvedere  \bel-re-dear'].  A  sort  of 
pleasure-house  or  look-out  on  the  top  of 
a  house.  The  word  is  Italian,  and  means 

sxJineprosjH'et. 

Belvide'ra  (in  Otway's  Venice  Prc- 
serred).  Sir  Walter  Scott  says,  "More 
tears  have  been  shed  for  the  sorrows 
of  Belvide'ra,  and  Monimia  than  for 
those  of  Juliet  and  Desdemona." 

".\nd  Belvidera  pours  her  soul  in  love." 

Thomson  :  ^yinter. 

Bemuse  (2  syl.).  To  get  into  a 
dreamj',  lialf-intoxicated  state. 

"  BemiisinK  himself  with  beer."— .Sd/a;  Gaslight 
avd  Daylight. 

Ben.    The  Neptune  of  the  Saxons. 

Ben  (a  theatrical  word).  Benefit. 
"  A  big  ben,"  a  good  or  bumping  bene- 
fit. 

Jiif/  Ben  of  IVestmlnsfer.  A  name  given 
to  the  large  bell,  which  weighs  13  tons 
lOcwt.,  and  is  named  after  Sir  Benjamin 
Hall,  the  Cliief  Commissioner  of  Works 
when  the  boll  was  cast.     (1S5G.) 


Ben  Jochanan 


12.-? 


Bendigo 


Ben  Joc'hanan',  in  the  satire  of 
Absalom  and  Ach'itophd,  by  Drydeii  aud 
Tate,  is  meaut  for  tlie  Eev.  Samuel 
Johusou,  who  suffered  much  persecution 
for  his  defence  of  the  right  of  private 
judgment. 

"  A  Jew  \_EngXisliman'\  of  liumble  xiarentage  was 
he ; 
By  trade  a  Levite  [cto-ffj/inanl  though  of  low 
degree."        .  Part  ii.  354, 355. 

Ben  trovato  (Italian).  Well  found  ; 
a  happy  discovery  or  invention. 

Benai'ah  (3  syl.),  in  the  satire  of 
Ahsaloiii  and  Achitophd,  by  Dryden  and 
Tate,  is  meant  for  George  Edward  Sack- 
ville,  called  General  Sackville,  a  gentle- 
man of  familj%  and  a  zealous  partisan 
of  the  Duke  of  York.  Beuaiah  was  cap- 
tain in  David's  anny,  aud  was  made  by 
Solomon  generalissimo.   (1  Kings  ii.  35.) 

"  Xor  can  Beuaiab's  worth  forgotten  lie, 
Of  slead.v  soul  when  public  storms  were  high  : 
"Whose  conduct,  while  the  Moors  fierce  onsets 

made, 
Secured  at  once  our  honour  and  our  trade." 

Part  ii.  «iy-». 

Bena'res  (3  syl.).  One  of  the  "most 
holy"  cities  of  the  Hindus,  reverenced 
by  them  as  much  as  Mecca  is  by  the 
Mohaminedaus. 

Benbow  {Admiral),  in  an  engage- 
ment with  the  French  near  St.  Martha, 
on  the  Spanish  coast,  in  1701,  had  his 
legs  aud  thighs  shivered  into  splinters 
by  a  chaiu-shot,  but,  supportetl  in  a 
wooden  frame,  he  remaiued  on  the 
quarter-deck  till  morning,  when  Du 
Casse  bore  away.  Almey'da,  the  Portu- 
guese governor  of  India,  in  his  engage- 
ment with  the  united  fleet  of  Cambay'a 
and  Egypt,  had  his  legs  and  thighs 
shattered  in  a  similar  manner ;  but,  in- 
stead of  retreating,  had  himself  bound 
to  the  ship's  mast,  where  he  "waved 
his  sword  to  cheer  on  the  combatants," 
till  he  died  from  loss  of  blood.  (SVv 
Cynjegeeos,  Jaafee,  etc.) 

"  Whirled  by  the  cannon's  rage,  in  shivers  turn. 
His  thighs   far  shattered  o'er  the  waves  are 

horno  : 
Bound  to  the  mast  the  god-like  hero  stands, 
Waves  his  proud  sword  and  cheers  his  woeful 

bands : 
Though  winds  and  seas  their  wonted  aid  deny. 
To  yield  he  knows  not,  but  he  knows  to  die." 
Ctimovns:  Liisiatl,  hook  x. 

Benbow.  A  sot,  generous,  free,  idle, 
and  always  hanging  about  the  ale-house. 
He  inherited  a  good  estate,  spent  it  all, 
and  ended  life  in  the  workhouse.  The 
tale  is  in  Crabbe's  Borough. 

"Benbow.  a  boon  companion,  long  approved 
By  jovial  sets,  and  (as  he  thought)  beloved. 
Was  judged  as  one  to  joy  and  friendship  prone. 
And  deeiiied  injurious  to  himself  alone." 

Letter  .\vi. 


Bench.  The  seat  of  a  judge  in  the 
law  courts  ;  the  office  of  judge. 

To  he  raised  to  the  bench.  To  be  made 
a  judge. 

The  King's  [queen's]  hoich.  Tlie 
Supreme  Cotirt  of  Common  Law ;  so  called 
because  at  one  time  the  sovereign  pre- 
sided in  this  court,  and  the  court  fol- 
lowed the  sovereign  when  he  moved 
from  one  place  to  another.  Now  a 
division  of  the  High  Court  of  Judicature. 

Bench.  Bench  of  bishops.  The  whole 
body  of  English  prelates,  who  sit  together 
on  a  bench  in  the  House  of  Lords. 

To  be  raised  to  the  Episcopal  bench.  To 
be  made  a  bishop. 

Bench  and  Bar.  Judges  and 
pleaders.  The  bench  is  the  seat  on 
which  a  judge  sits.  The  bar  of  a  court 
was  formerly  a  wooden  barrier,  to 
sej)arate  the  counsel  from  the  audience. 
Now,  silk  gowns  ('/.''.)  sit  nearer  the 
judge,  aud  their  jiuiiors  behiud  them. 
{Sec  Bakeistees.) 

Benchers.  Senior  members  of  the 
Inns  of  Court ;  so  called  from  the  bencli 
on  which  they  used  to  sit.  The}-  exercise 
the  function  of  calling  students  to  the 
bar,  and  have  the  right  of  expelling  the 
obnoxious.     {See  Bae,  page  94,  col.  1.) 

"He  was  made  successively  Barrister,  L'tter 
Biirrister,  Bencher,  and  Reader."— H'oorf. 

Bend,  meaning  power,  as  Bego)id  mg 
beud,  i.e.  my  means  or  power.  The 
allusion  is  to  a  bow  or  spring ;  if  strained 
beyond  its  bendiug  power,  it  breaks. 
{Sec  Bext.) 

Bend  Sinister.  ITc  has  a  bend 
sinister.  He  was  not  born  in  lawfid 
wedlock.  In  heraldry,  a  band  rtnming 
fi'om  the  upper  right-hand  comer  to  the 
lower  left-haud  corner  (as  the  shield 
appears  before  j^ovi  on  paper)  is  called  a 
bend-sinister,  and  is  popularlj',  but 
eiToneously,  supposed  to  indicate  has- 
tardy. 

Ben'demeer'.  A  river  that  flows 
near  the  ruins  of  Chil'miuar' or  Istachar', 
in  the  province  of  Chusistan'  in  Persia. 

"  There's  a  bower  of  roses  liy  Bendemeor's  stream. 
And  the  nightingale  sings  round  it  all  the  day 
long."  ■  T.  Muore  :  Lalla  liiiokh.  Part  1. 

Bender.     Sixpence. 

Ben'digo.  A  rough  fur  cap,  named 
from  a  noted  pugilist,  William  Thomp- 
son ;  so  nicknamed  from  his  birthplace 
in  Australia. 


Bendy 


12i 


BensMe 


Bendy  {Old).  The  devil,  wlio  is 
williug  to  bend  to  anyone's  inclina- 
tion. The  way  of  sin  is  so  broad  that 
every  shade  of  error  can  be  admitted 
without  obstruction. 

Benedicite  (o  syl.).  "Bless  j'ou  :  " 
a  benediction  used  in  the  Roman  Catho- 
lic Church  ;  also  the  canticle. 

Benedick.  A  sworn  bachelor  caught 
in  the  wiles  of  mati-imony,  like  Bene- 
dick in  Shakespeare's  comedy  of  Iluch 
Ado  about  Nothing. 

"  Let  our  worthy  Cantab  be  baclielor  or  BeiiP- 
dick  what  concern  is  it  of  ours."— l/i'S.  Edwards: 
A  Girtoii  Girl,  chap.  xv. 

'.•  Benedick  and  Benedict  are  used 
indiscriminately,  but  the  distinction 
should  be  observed. 

Benedict.  A  bachelor,  not  neces- 
sarily one  pledged  to  celibacy,  but  simply 
a  man  of  marriageable  age,  not  married. 
St.  Benedict  was  a  most  uncompromis- 
ing stickler  for  celibacy. 

"Is  it  not  a  pun?  There  is  an  old  saying, 
'Needles  and  pins;  when  a  man  marries  his  trou- 
ble l)e!.'ins.'  If  so,  the  unmarried  man  is  bcnedic- 
tiisr-Life  in  the  )Vi'st. 

Benedictines  (4  syl.).  Monks  who 
follow  the  rule  of  St.  Benedict,  viz. 
implicit  obedience,  celibacy,  abstaining 
from  laughter,  spare  diet,  poverty,  the 
exercise  of  hospitality,  and  uuremittiug 
industry. 

Ben'efice  (3  syl.).  Under  the  Romans 
certain  grants  of  lands  made  to  veteran 
soldiers  were  called  heneficia,  and  in  the 
Middle  Ages  an  estate  held  ex  mcro 
hcuejicio  of  the  donor  was  called  "a 
benefice."  When  the  popes  assumed 
the  power  of  the  feudal  lords  with  re- 
ference to  ecclesiastical  patronage,  a 
"  living  "  was  termed  by  them  a  benefice 
held  under  the  pope  as  superior  lord. 
This  assumption  roused  the  jealousy  of 
France  and  England,  and  was  stoutly 
resisted. 

Benefit  of  Clergy.  Exemption  of 
the  clerical  order  from  civil  punishment, 
based  on  the  text,  "Touch  not  mine 
anointed,  and  do  my  prophets  no  harm  " 
(I  Chi-on.  xvi.  22).  In  time  it  compre- 
hended not  only  the  ordained  clergy, 
but  all  who,  being  able  to  write  and 
read,  were  capable  of  entering  iuto  holy 
orders.  This  law  was  abolished  in  the 
reigu  of  George  IV.  (1827). 

Ben'en-ge'li.     {See  Hamet.) 

Benet    (French).      A    simpleton,    so 

called  because  they  were  supposed  to  be, 

in  a  special  way,  the  objects  of  God's 

care.     (French,  bini,  Old  French,  beneit, 


from   Latin,    henedietus.)      "We   call   an 
idiot  an  "  Innocent  "  {q.i'.). 

Benevolence.  A  ' '  forced  "  gratuity, 
under  the  excuse  of  a  loan,  exacted  by 
some  of  the  Plautagenet  kings.  Plrst 
enforced  in  1473,  it  was  declai-ed  illegal 
by  the  Bill  of  Rights  in  1689. 

"Roval  l)ene\dlences  were  encroaching  more 
and  more  on  tlie  right  of  parliamentary  taxation." 
—Gircii, :  History  of  Vie  KiKjIish  VeuiAe,  vol.  ii. 
book  vi.  chap.  i.  p.  l'J7. 

Benev'olus,  in  Cowper's  Task,  is  John 
Courtney  Throckmorton  of  Weston  Un- 
derwood. 

Bengal  Tigers.  The  old  17th  Foot, 
whose  badge,  a  royal  tiger,  was  granted 
them  for  their  services  in  India  (1802-23). 
Now  the  Leicester  Regiment. 

Bengalese  (3  .syl.)  for  Ben'galis  or 
Bengalees.  Natives  of  Bengal.  (Sin- 
gular, Ben'gali  or  Bengalee.) 

Bengo'di.  A  wonderful  country 
where  "  they  tie  the  vines  with  sausages, 
where  you  may  buy  a  fat  goose  for  a 
penny  and  have  the  giblets  given  iuto 
the  bargaiu.  In  this  place  there  is  a 
mountain  of  Parmesan  cheese,  and  peo- 
jDle's  employment  is  making  cheesecakes 
and  macaroons.  There  is  also  a  river 
which  runs  Malmsey  wine  of  the  very 
best  quality.  {Boccaeelo  :  E'ujhth  Duij, 
Novel  iii.) 

Benicia  Boy.  John  C.  Heeiiau, 
the  American  pugilist,  who  challenged 
and  fought  Tom  Sayers  for  "  the  belt  " 
in  18(J0  :  so  called  from  Benicia  in  Cali- 
fornia, his  birthplace. 

Benjamin.  The  pet,  the  j'oungest. 
Queensland  is  the  Benjamin  of  our  colo- 
nial possessions.  The  allusion  is  to 
Benjamin,  the  youngest  son  of  Jacob 
(Gen.  XXXV.  18). 

Benjamin.  A  smart  overcoat ;  so 
called  from  a  tailor  of  the  name,  and 
rendered  popular  by  its  association  with 
Josejih's  "  coat  of  many  colours." 

Benjamin's  Mess.  The  largest  share. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  banquet  given  by 
Joseph,  viceroy  of  Egypt,  to  his  brethren. 
"Benjamin's  mess  was  five  times  so 
much  as  any  of  theirs  "  (Gen.  xliii.  31). 

Bennaskar.  A  wealthy  merchant 
and  magician  of  Delhi,  in  Ridley's  Tales 
of  the  Gcmi. 

"  Like  the  jeweller  of  Delhi,  in  the  house  of  the 
magician  Bennaskar,  I  at  length  reached  a  vaulted 
room  dedicated  to  secrecy  and  silence."— .Sir  H'. 
Heott. 

Benshie,  Benshee  [see  Banshee). 
The  Scotch  Jiodach  Glaij,  _  or  Grey 
Spectre,  is  a  similar  superstition  ;  and 
the   Tan-Banon   (Nymjih    of    tJie    Air) 


Bent 


12; 


Berlin  Time 


of  the  Arabian  Nights  is  also  a  sort  of 
Benshee. 

"  Hiiw  oft  lias  the  Beusliee  cried  !"  [How  busy 
death  has  been  nf  late  with  our  notaljles.]— T. 
Miinre :  Irish  Melodies, 'So.  ii. 

Bent.  Inclinatiou  ;  talent  for  some- 
thing. Out  of  III//  hoit,  not  in  my  way, 
not  in  the  range  of  my  talent.  Bent  on 
it,  inclined  to  it.  As  a  tiling  bent  is  in- 
clined, so  a  bent  is  an  inclination  or 
bias.  Genius  or  talent  is  a  bent  or  bias. 
1  "  Whatever  is  done  best,  is  done  from  the 
natural  bent  and  dispositiun  of  the  mind.'  — 
Iliizlitt :  Table  Talk. 

Theij  fool  me  to  the  top  of  my  bent,  i.e. 
as  far  as  the  bow  can  be  bent  without 
snapping.    {irr(ml('t,m.2.)     (<S'ee  Bend. ) 

Benvo'lio.  Xephew  to  Montague, 
a  testy,  litigious  gentleman,  who  would 
"  quarrel  with  a  man  that  had  a  hair 
more  or  a  hair  less  in  his  beard  than  he 
had."  Mercutio  says  to  him,  "Thou 
hast  quarrelled  with  a  man  for  coughing 
in  the  street,  because  he  hath  wakened 
thy  dog  that  hath  lain  asleep  in  the 
sun."  {Shakespeare  :  Romeo  and  Juliet, 
iii.  1.) 

Beppo.  The  contraction  of  Giuseppe, 
and  therefore  equal  to  our  Joe.  Hus- 
band of  Laura,  a  Venetian  lady.  He 
was  taken  captive  in  Troy,  turned  Turk, 
joined  a  band  of  pirates,  grew  rich,  and, 
after  several  years'  absence,  returned  to 
his  native  laud,  where  he  discovered  his 
wife  at  a  carnival  ball  with  her  cavuliero 
ser rente.  He  made  himself  known  to 
her,  and  they  lived  together  again  as 
man  and  wife.     {Byron  :  Beppo.) 

Berch'ta  [the  ivliite  lady].  This fair}% 
ill  Southern  Germany,  answers  to  Hulda 
{tlie gracious  lady)  of  Northern  Gemiany; 
but  afterthe  introduction  of  Christianity, 
when  pagan  deities  were  represented  as 
demons,  Berchta  lost  her  former  charac- 
ter, and  became  a  bogie  to  frighten 
children. 

Bere'ans  (3  syl.).  The  followers 
of  the  Eev.  John  Barclay,  of  Kin- 
cardineshire (1773).  They  believe  that 
all  we  know  of  God  is  from  revela- 
tion ;  that  all  the  Psahns  refer  to 
Christ ;  that  assurance  is  the  proof  of 
faith;  and  that  unbelief  is  the  unpar- 
donable sin.  They  took  their  name 
from  the  Bereans,  mentioned  in  the 
Book  of  the  Acts  (xvii.  II),  who 
"  received  the  Word  with  all  readiness 
of  mind,  and  searched  the  Scriptures 
dail}-." 

Berecyn'thian  Hero.  Midas,  the 
Phrygian  king  ;  so  called  from  Mount 
Berecyntus,  iu  Phrygia, 


Berenga'rians.  Followers  of  Be- 
renger,  archdeacon  of  Angers,  tlie  learned 
opponent  of  Laufranc  (eleventh  cen- 
tury). He  said  that  the  bread  by 
consecration  did  not  become  the  very 
body  of  Christ  ''generated  on  earth  so 
many  years  before,  but  becomes  to  the 
faithful,  nevertheless,  the  blessed  body 
of  Christ." 

Bereni'ce  (4  syl.) .  The  sister- wife  of 
Ptolemy  III. ,  who  vowed  to  sacrifice  her 
hair  to  the  gods,  if  her  husband  returned 
home  the  vanquisher  of  Asia.  She  sus- 
pended her  hair  in  the  temple  of  the 
wargod,  but  it  was  stolen  the  first 
night,  and  Couon  of  Samostold  the  kiug 
that  the  winds  had  wafted  it  to  heaven, 
where  it  still  forms  the  seven  stars  near 
the  tail  of  Leo,  called  Coma  Berenices. 

"  Pope,  in  his  Bapc  of  the  Loch-,  con- 
verts the  purloined  ringlet  into  a  star  or 
meteor,  "  which  drew  behind  a  radiant 
trail  of  hair."    (Canto  v.) 

Berg  Folk.  Pagan  spirits  doomed 
to  Hve  on  the  Scandinavian  hills  till 
the  day  of  redemption.  {Scandinavian 
mythology.) 

Bergsean  (,/).  A  gi-eat  liar;  so 
called  from  Antiphaues  Berga. 

Bergelmir.  A  frost-giant,  father  of 
the  Jcituus,  or  second  dynasty  of  giants. 
{Scandinavian  mythology. ) 

Berger.  Z^hciire  dii  Berger  (French). 
The  shepherd's  honr,  i.e.  the  swain's  or 
lover's  hour;  the  happy  hour  of  tryst; 
the  critical  moment. 

Bergomasli:.  A  clown  or  merry- 
andrew ;  a  native  of  Bergamo.  Com- 
jiare,  a  gasconader  ;  a  Boeotian. 

Berkley  {Mr.).  An  Englishman  of 
fortune,  good-humoured,  and  humane. 
He  is  a  bachelor  and  somewhat  eccentric, 
but  sound  common  sense  is  a  silver 
thread  which  is  never  lost.  {Longfellow: 
Jlyperion  (a  romance),  1839.) 

Berkshire  (Saxon,  Bcaroc  -  scire, 
forest-shire),  a  name  peculiarly  appro- 
priate to  this  county,  which  contains  the 
forest  districts  of  Windsor  and  Bagshot. 

Berlin  Decree.  A  decree  issued  at 
Berlin  by  Napoleon  L,  forbidding  any 
of  the  nations  of  Euroiie  to  trade  with 
Great  Britain  (1806).  This  mad  fancy 
was  the  first  step  to  the  great  man's 
fall. 

Berlin  Time.  The  new  Berlin  Ob- 
servatory is  44'  14"  east  of  Paris,  and 
53'  3.5"  east  of  Greenwich.  The  Berlin 
day  begins  at  noon,  but  our  civil  day 
begins  the  midnight  preceding. 


Berliner  £ 


126 


Bertha 


Berliners.    The  people  of  Berlin,  in 

Prussia. 

Berme'ja.  Insula  de  la  Torre,  from 
which  Amadis  of  Gaul  starts  when  he 
goes  in  quest  of  the  Euchautress-Damsel, 
daughter  of  Fin'etor  the  necromancer. 

Bermoothes.  An  hj^jothetical  island 
feigned  by  Shakespeare  to  be  enchanted, 
and  inhabited  by  witches  and  devils. 
Supposed  by  some  to  be  Bermudas  ;  but 
a  correspondent  in  Xutcs  and  Queries 
(January  23rd,  1886,  p.  72)  utterly 
denies  this,  and  favom-s  the  suggestion 
that  the  island  meant  was  Lampedusa. 

■•From  the  still-vexed  Bennodthcs,  there  she's 
liid."  Shiikespeare :  The  Tsiiipest,i.'2. 

Bermudas.  To  lire  in  the  Bermudas, 
i.t'.  in  some  out-of-the-way  place  for 
cheapness.  The  shabby  genteel  hire  a 
knocker  in  some  West-end  square,  where 
letters  may  be  left  for  them,  but  live  in 
tlie  Bermudas,  or  narrow  passages  north 
of  the  Strand,  near  Coveut  Garden. 

Bernard  (■S'^.).  Abbot  of  the  monas- 
tery of  Clairvaux  in  the  twelfth  century. 
His  fame  for  wisdom  was  very  great, 
and  few  church  matters  wei-e  under- 
taken without  his  being  consulted. 

Fetit  Bernard.  Solomon  Bernard,  en- 
graver of  Lyons.     (Sixteenth  century.) 

Poor  Bernard.  Claude  Bernard,  of 
Dijon,  philanthropist  (1588-1641). 

Lncallm.  Samuel  Bernard,  capitalist 
(16,)1-1739). 

Le  gen  til  Bernard.  Pierre  Joseph  Ber- 
nard, the  French  j)oet  (1710-1775). 

Bernard.  Bonus  Bernardiisnon  ridef 
Oiiniia  (see  above).  We  are  all  apt  to 
forget  sometimes  ;  events  do  not  always 
turn  out  as  they  are  planned  before- 
hand. 

"  Poor  Peter  was  to  win  honours  at  Shrewsbury 
school  and  carry  them  thick  to  t'aniliridge  ;  and 
after  that  a  living  aM'aited  him,  the  gift  of  his 
godfather,  Sir  Peter  Arley  ;  but  lioniis  Bernardus 
nail  viriit  mnnia,  and  Poor  Peter's  lot  in  life  was 
very  different  to  what  bis  friends  bad  planned." 
—Mrs.  Gasliell :  Cranford,  chaii.  vi. 

Bernard  Soup  (■*»'/'.).  (Sec  Stone 
Soup.  ) 

Bernardo,  in  Dibdiu's  Bibliomania 
(a  romance),  is  meant  for  Joseph  Hazle- 
wood,  antiquary  and  critic  (1811). 

Bernardo  del  Car'pio.    One  of  the 

most  favourite  subjects  of  the  Spanish 
minstrels ;  the  other  two  being  the  Cid 
and  Lara's  seven  infants. 

Bernard's  Inn.  Formerly  called 
Mackworth  Imi,  from  Dean  Mackworth, 
who  died  1454. 


'•This  house  wa?,  in  the  thirty-first  year  of  the 
reign  of  Henry  VI.,  a  messuage  belonging  to  Dr. 
John  Mackworth,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church 
of  Lincoln,  and  at  that  time  in  the  holding  of 
one  Lionel  Bernard  ....  and  it  bath  ever  since 
retained  the  name  of  Bernard's  Inn."— Ilarlciaii 
Mas.  No.  noj. 

Berners  or  Barnes  (Juliana). 
Prioress  of  Sopewell  nunnery,  near  St. 
Albans,  reputed  authoress  of  the  BoJcys 
of  Han-king  and  ILunting  (1486).  Gener- 
ally called  "  Dame  Berners."  Another 
book  ascribed  to  her  is  the  Bohe  of  the 
Blazinej  of  Arms  (1485). 

Bernese  (2  syl.).  A  native  of  Berne, 
in  Switzerland. 

Bernesqne  Poetry.  Serio-comic 
poetry  ;  so  called  from  Francesco  Bemi, 
of  Tuscany,  who  greatly  excelled  in  it. 
(1490-1530.) 

Bernouilli's  Numbers  or  the  pro- 
perties of  numbers  first  discovered  by 
James  Bei-nouilli,  professor  of  mathe- 
matics at  Basle  (1654-1705). 

Berser'ker.  Grandson  of  the  eight- 
handed  Starka'der  and  the  beautiful 
Alfhilde,  called  har-seree  (bare  of  mail) 
because  he  went  into  battle  imharnessed. 
Hence,  any  man  with  the  fighting  fever 
on  him. 

"You  say  that  I  am  berserker.  And  .  .  .  bare- 
sarK  I  go  to-morrow  to  the  war."— iiec.  V.  Kinqs- 
hi/:  Ihrewanlthe  M'akc. 

Berth.  He  has  tumbled  into  a  nice 
berth.  A  nice  situation  or  fortune.  The 
lilace  in  which  a  ship  is  anchored  is 
called  its  berth,  and  the  sailors  call  it  a 
good,  or  bad-  berth  as  they  think  it  favour- 
able or  otherwise.  The  space  also 
allotted  to  a  seaman  for  his  hammock  is 
called  his  berth,  (Norman,  berth,  a 
cradle. ) 

2h  give  a  wide  berth.  Not  to  come 
near  a  person ;  to  keep  a  person  at  a 
distance.  The  place  where  a  ship  Hes 
in  harbour  is  called  her  berth :  hence, 
to  give  a  "  wide  berth  "  is  to  give  a  ship 
plenty  of  room  to  swing  at  anchor. 

Bertha.  The  betrothed  of  John  of 
Leyden,  but,  being  a  vassal  of  Count 
Oberthal,  she  was  unable  to  marry  with- 
out her  lord's  consent.  When  she  went 
with  her  mother  to  ask  permission  of 
marriage,  the  count,  struck  with  her 
beauty,  determined  to  make  her  his 
mistress.  She  afterwards  makes  her 
escape  from  the  castle,  and,  fancying 
that  the  "projjhet"  had  caused  the 
death  of  her  lover,  goes  to  Munster 
fully  resolved  to  compass  his  death  by 
setting  fire  to  the  jDalace.  She  is  appre- 
hended, and,  being  brought  before  the 
proi^het-kiiig,   recognises  her   lover    in 


Bertha 


127 


Besom 


him,  sayiug,  "I  loved  thee  ouce,  but 
now  my  love  is  turned  to  hate,"  and 
stabs  herself.  (Mtu/crbeer's  ojwra,  Lc 
I'lojihite.) 

Bertha.  Tlie  bliud  daughter  of  Caleb 
Plummer  in  Dickens's  Cricket  on  the 
Hearth  (a  Christmas  storj'),  184-5. 

Bertha  (Fran).  A  German  imper- 
sonation of  the  Epiphany,  correspoudiug 
to  the  Italian  'Beiana.  Represented  as 
a  white  lady,  who  steals  softly  into 
nurseries  and  rocks  infants  asleep  in 
the  absence  of  negligent  uurses ;  she 
is,  however,  the  terror  of  all  naughty 
children.  Her  feet  are  very  large,  and 
she  has  an  iron  nose.     {Sec  Eefana.) 

Berthas  [Stock  Excliangc  terui].  The 
Loudon,  Briglitou,  it  South  Coast  Rail- 
waj-  Deferred  Stock. 

Berthe  au  Grand  Pied.  Mother  of 
Charieraague,  and  great  granddaughter 
of  Charles  Martel ;  so  called  because  she 
had  a  club-foot. 

Bertolde  {Bar-toh^.  Impcrturhahle 
an  Bertolde,  i.e.  not  to  be  taken  by 
sui-prise,  thrown  off  your  guard,  or  dis- 
concerted at  anything.  Bertolde  is  the 
hero  of  a  little  Jen  (/'esprit  in  Italian 
l)rose,  J.  Cesare  Croce.  He  is  a  com- 
edian by  luofessiou,  whom  nothing  as- 
tonishes, and  is  as  much  at  his  ease 
■\vith  kings  and  queens  as  with  persons 
of  his  own  rank  and  vocation. 

Bertram.  One  of  the  conspirators 
against  the  Republic  of  Venice  "in 
whom  there  was  a  hesitating  softness 
fatal  to  a  great  enterprise."  He  be- 
trayed the  consj)iracy  to  the  senate. 
{By roil :  3Iariiio  Faliero.) 

Bertram  {Henry),  in  Sir  W.  Scott's 
novel  of  Gay  Manneriny,  was  suggested 
by  James  Anuesley,  Esq.,  rightful  heir 
of  the  earldom  of  Anglesey,  of  which  he 
was  dispossessed  by  his  uncle  Richard. 
He  died  in  174o. 

Bertram,    Count    of    Rousillon, 

beloved  by  HelSna,  the  hero  of  Shake- 
speare's comedy,  AITs  Well  that  Ends 
Well. 

••  T  Oiinni't  i-econcile.iny  heart  to  Bertr:im,aiiiau 
nnble  witlunit  t'eiiero-sity,  and  younij  without 
truth  ;  wlio  marries  Helena  as  a  coward,  and 
leavers  her  as  a  iirofligate."— /Jr.  Johnaon. 

Bertram  Risingham.  The  vassal 
of  Phihp  of  Mortham.  Oswald  \Vy- 
cliffe  induced  him  to  shoot  his  lord  at 
Marstou  Moor,  and  for  this  vile  deed 
the  vassal  demanded  of  him  all  the  gold 
and  movables  of  his  late  master.  Oswald, 
being  a  villain,  tried  to  outwit  Bertram, 


and  even  murder  him  ;  but  in  the  end  it 
turns  out  that  Morthani  was  not  killed, 
neither  was  Oswald  his  heir,  for  Red- 
mond O'Xeale,  the  page  of  Rokeby,  is 
found  to  be  Mortham's  son.  (Scott  : 
Rokeby.) 

Bertramo.  The  fiend -father  of 
Robert  le  Ditible.  After  alluring  his 
son  to  gamble  away  all  his  possessions, 
he  meets  him  near  the  rocks  St.  Ire'ne, 
and  Hel'eua  seduces  him  in  the  "Dance 
of  Love."  When  Bertra'mo  at  last 
comes  to  claim  his  victim,  he  is  resisted 
by  Alice,  the  foster-sister  of  the  duke, 
who  reads  to  him  his  mother's  will,  and 
angels  come  to  celebrate  the  triumph  of 
good  over  evil.  [Meyerbeer'' n  opera  of 
Roberto  il  hiarolo.) 

Berwicks  {^Stock  Exehanye  terin\ 
meaning  the  Nor th-Eas tern  Railway 
shares.     The  line  rims  to  Berwick. 

Beryl  Molozane  (3  syl.).  The  lady 
beloved  b}'  George  Geith  ;  a  laughing, 
loving  beauty,  all  simshine  ami  art- 
lessness  ;  tender,  frank,  full  of  innocent 
chatter ;  helping  everyone  and  loving 
everyone.  Her  lot  is  painfully  unhappy, 
and  she  dies.  {F.  (J.  Trafford  [J.  H. 
Riddell] :  Gcorye  Geith.) 

Berzak  [the  interval].  The  space 
between  death  and  the  resurrection. 
{2'he  Koran.) 

Besaile.  A  great  grandfather  (Frencli, 
bisaieal).    This  word  should  be  restored. 

Besants  or  Bezants.  Circular  pieces 
of  bullion  without  any  impression,  suji- 
l^osed  to  represent  the  old  coinage  of 
Byzantium,  and  to  have  been  brought 
to  Eui-ope  by  the  Crusaders. 

Beside  the  Cushion.  Beside  the 
question  ;  not  to  the  point ;  not  perti- 
nent to  the  matter  in  liand.  French, 
hors  dc  propos  ;  Latin,  nihil  ad  rhoinbinji. 
It  was  Judge  Jeffreys  who  used  the 
phi-ase,  "  Besides  [sie]  the  cushion." 

Besom.  To  huny  out  the  besom.  To 
have  a  fling  when  your  wife  is  gone  on 
a  visit.  To  be  a  quasi  bachelor  once 
more.  Taking  this  in  connection  with 
the  following  phrase,  it  e%'idently  means, 
holding  the  marriage  service  in  abey- 
ance. 

"This  is  French  argot.  Hotir  le  hnhii  (to  Imrn 
the  hesom)  means  to  live  the  life  of  a  liber- 
tine, whence  balocliard,  Paris  slang  for  a  lilier- 
tine.  Probal)ly  our  phrase,  "  huru  the  hellowg," 
is  pretty  much  the  same  as  rotir  le  butai. 

Jinnpiny  the  besom.  Omitting  the 
marriage  service  after  the  iiublication 
of  banns,  and  li\'iug  together  as  man 


Bess 


128 


Beth  Gelerfc 


aud  wife.  In  Soutliern  Scotch,  a  street- 
walker is  called  a  besoui,  and  in  French 
b'dai  (a  besom)  means  the  life  of  a  liber- 
tine, as  liotir  le  balai  ;  II  out  bioi  rati  Ic 
halai  ciiseiiible,  where  balai  means  a  de- 
bauch or  something  worse.  No  further 
explanation  can  be  needed  or  could  be 
given. 

Bess.  Good  Queen  Bess.  Queen  Eliza- 
beth (1533,  1558-1603). 

Bess  o'  Bedlam.  A  female  lunatic 
vagrant.  Bedlam  is  a  common  name 
for  a  madhouse,  and  Bess  is  a  national 
name  for  a  woman,  especially  of  the 
lower  order.  The  male  lunatic  is  a 
Tojji  6i'  Bedlam. 

Bess  of  Hardwicke.  Elizabeth, 
Countess  of  Slirewsbury,  to  whose 
charge,  in  1572,  Mary  Queen  of  Scots 
was  committed.  The  countess  treated 
the  captive  queen  with  great  harshness, 
being  jealous  of  the  earl  her  husband. 
Bess  of  Hardwicke  married  four  times  : 
Alexander  Barley  (when  she  was  only 
fourteen  years  of  age) ;  William  Caven- 
dish ;  Sir  WiUiam  St.  Loe,  Captain  of 
Queen  Elizabeth's  Guard ;  and  lastl,y, 
George,  Earl  of  Shrewsbury.  She  built 
Hardwicke  Hall,  and  founded  the  wealth 
and  dignity  of  the  Cavendish  family. 

Bessemer  Iron.  Pig-iron  refined, 
and  converted  into  steel  or  malleable 
iron  by  passing  currents  of  air  through 
the  molten  metal,  according  to  a  process 
discovered  by  Sir  H.  Bessemer,  and 
patented  in  1850. 

Bessie  Bell  and  Mary  Gray.     A 

ballad.  The  tale  is  that  these  two  young 
ladies,  natives  of  Perth,  to  avoid  the 
plague  of  1666,  retired  to  a  rural  retreat 
called  the  Burnbraes,  about  a  mile  from 
Lynedock,  the  residence  of  Mary  Gray. 
A  j'onng  man,  in  love  with  both,  carried 
them  provisions.  Both  ladies  died  of 
the  plague,  and  were  buried  at  Dornock 
Hough. 

Bessus.  A  cowardly,  bragging  cap- 
tain, a  sort  of  Bob'adil  (q-V.).  {Beaioiwiit 
and  Fletcher :  A  Kinr/  and  no  Kiny.) 

Best.  At  best  or  At  the  very  best. 
Looking  at  the  matter  in  the  most 
favourable  light.  Making  every  allow- 
ance. 

"  Life  at  Ijcst  is  Init  a  mingled  yarn." 

ylt  one^s  best.  At  the  highest  or  best 
point  attainable  by  the  person  referred  to. 

For  tJie  best.    With  the  best  of  motives ; 
with    the  view    of    obtaining  the   best 
results. 
.     I  mast  Diake  the  best  of  my  icay  home. 


It  is  getting  late  and  I  must  use  my 
utmost  diligence  to  get  home  as  soon  as 
possible. 

lo  have  the  best  of  it,  or,  To  have  the 
best  of  the  bargain.  To  have  the  advan- 
tage or  best  of  a  transaction. 

To  make  the  best  of  the  matter.  To 
submit  to  ill-luck  with  the  best  grace  in 
3'our  power. 

Best  Man  (at  a  wedding).  The  bride- 
groom's chosen  friend  who  waits  on  him, 
as  the  bride's  maids  wait  on  the  bride. 

Best  Things  [Tlie  Fiyht),  according 
to  Scandinavian  m3'thology  :  — 

(1)  The  ash  Yggdrasil  is  the  best  of 

trees  ; 

(2)  Skidbladnir,  of  shii^s  ; 

(3)  Odin,  of  the  ^Esir' ; 

(4)  Sleii^nir,  of  steeds  ; 

(5)  Bifrost,  of  bridges  ; 

(6)  Bragi,  of  bards  ; 

(7)  Habrok,  of  hawks 

(8)  Garm,  of  hoimds. 

Bestiaries  or  Bestials.  Books  very 
popular  in  the  eleventh,  twelfth,  and 
thii'teenth  centuries,  containing  the  pic- 
tures of  animals  and  their  symbolisms. 

"Tlio  unicorn  lias  but  one  linni  in  tlie  middle 
of  its  fiireliead.  It  is  tlie  unly  animal  that  ven- 
tures to  attack  tlie  oleiiliant  ;  and  so  sliarp  is  tlie 
nail  of  its  foot,  that  with  one  blow  it  can  rip 
the  tielly  of  that  beast.  Hunters  can  catch  the. 
unicorn  only  by  placing  a  young  virgin  in  its 
liaunts.  No  sooner  does  he  see  the  damsel,  than 
lie  runs  towards  her,  and  lies  down  at  her  feet, and 
so  suffers  himself  to  be  captured  by  the  hunters. 
The  iiHicorn  represents  .Tesns  Christ,  who  took  m\ 
Him  our  nature  in  the  virgin's  womb,  was  iie- 
traved  to  the  .lews,  and  delivered  into  the  hands 
of  Pontius  Pilate.  Its  one  horn  signiHes  the 
(xospel  of  Truth.  .  .  ."—Le  JBestiaire  Dit-in  de 
Giiillaume,  C'lerc  dc  Normandic  U3th  centuryl. 

Bete.  Morte  la  hete,  mort  le  reiun. 
Dead  men  tell  no  tales  ;  dead  dogs  don't 
bite.  When  one  is  dead  his  power  of 
mischief  is  over.  Literally,  if  the  beast 
is  dead,  its  poison  is  dead  also. 

Qaand  Jean-Bete  est  mort,  il  a  laisse 
hicn  des   heritiers.      Casimir    Delavigne 
says  to  the  same  effect,  Les  sots  depiiis  _ 
Adam    sont    en.    majoritc.      Jean-Bete' 
means  a  fool  or  dolt. 

Bete  Noire.  The  thorn  in  the  side, 
the  bitter  in  the  cup,  the  spoke  in  the 
wheel,  the  black  sheep,  the  object  of 
aversion.  A  black  sheep  has  always 
been  considered  an  eyesore  in  a  flock, 
and  its  wool  is  really  less  valuable.  In 
times  of  superstition  it  was  looked  on  as 
bearing  the  devil's  mark. 

"The  Dutch  sale  of  tin  is  the  hUc  noire  of  the 
Cornish  miners."— T/ic  Times. 

Beth  Gelert,  or  "  the  Grave  of  the 
Greyhound."  A  ballad  by  the  Hon. 
William  Kobert  Spencer.    The  tale  is  that 


BetMemenites 


129 


Beurre 


one  day  Llewellyn  returned  from  hunt- 
ing, when  his  favourite  hound,  covered 
witii  gore,  ran  to  meet  him.  The  chief- 
tain ran  to  see  if  anytliing  had  happened 
to  his  infant  son,  found  the  cradle  over- 
turned, and  all  around  was  sprinkled 
with  gore  and  blood.  Thinking  the 
hound  had  eaten  the  child,  he  stabbed  it 
to  the  heart.  Afterwards  he  found  the 
babe  quite  safe,  and  a  huge  wolf  under 
the  bed,  quite  dead.  Gclert  had  killed 
the  wolf  and  saved  the  child. 

Beth'lemenites  (4  syl.).  Followers 
of  John  Huss,  so  called  because  he  used 
to  preach  in  the  clnu-ch  called  Bethlehem 
of  Prague. 

Betrothed  {The).  One  of  the  Tales 
of  the  Crusaders,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott, 
1832.  Lady  Eveline  Berenger  is  the 
betrothed  of  Sir  Damian  de  Lacy,  whom 
she  marries. 

Better.  Mij  better  half.  A  jocose 
way  of  saying  my  wife.  As  the  twain 
are  one,  each  is  half.  Horace  calls  his 
fi'iend  animcc  dimidiuni  mecc.  (1  Odes 
m.  8.) 

I'o  he  better  than  his  ivord.  To  do 
more  than  he  promised. 

To  th'inli  better  of  the  matter.  To 
give  it  further  consideration  ;  to  form  a 
more  correct  oi^iuion  respecting  it. 

Better  kind  Friend,  etc.  Better 
kind  friend  than  friend  kind.  Friend  is 
a  corruption  of  freind,  meaning  a  stran- 
ger. Better  [a]  kind  stranger  than  a 
kinsman  who  makes  himself  a  stranger, 
or  an  estranged  kinsman. 

Better  off.  In  more  easy  circum- 
stances. 

Bettina.  A  mascotte  who  always 
brought  good  luck  wherever  she  went. 
Though  a  mere  peasant,  she  is  taken  to 
the  Prince  of  Piombino's  palace  of 
Laurent,  to  avert  his  ill-luck ;  but  by 
marrying  Pippo  (a  shepherd)  she  loses 
her  gift.  However,  the  prince  is  re- 
minded that  the  children  of  a  mascotte 
are  hereditary  mascottes,  and  makes 
Bettiua  promise  that  her  first  child  shall 
be  adopted  by  the  i)rince.  {Sec  Mas- 
cotte.) 

Bettina.  The  name  under  which 
Elizabeth  Brentano  translated  into  Eng- 
lish Goethe's  Letters  to  a  Child  in  183.5. 
She  was  the  wife  of  Ludwig  Achim  von 
Arnim,  and  it  was  her  correspondence 
with  Goethe  which  were  the  Letters  to  a 
Child  referred  to.  Elizabeth  Brentano 
was  born  1785. 

Betty.  A  name  of  contempt  given 
to  a  man  who  interferes  with  the  duties 

9 


of  female  servants,  or  occupies  liimself  in 
female  pursuits  ;  also  called  a  "  Molly." 

Betty.  A  skeleton  key  ;  the  servant 
of  a  picklock.  Burglars  call  their  short 
crowbars  for  forcing  locks  Jenniea  and 
Jemmies.  "Jenny"  is  a  "small  engine," 
i.  e.  'ffinie,  and  Jemmy  is  merely  a  variant. 

Betu'bium.  Dumsby,  or  the  Cape  of 
St.  Antkew,  in  Scotland. 

"  The  nm-th-iiillated  tempest  foams 
O'er  Orka's  aud  Betiibiuiu's  highest  peak." 
Thomson :  Auttmm,  891,  2. 

Between.  Between  hay  and  grass. 
Neither  one  thing  nor  yet  tinother ;  a 
hobbledehoy,  neither  a  man  nor  yet  a 
boy. 

Between  cup  and  lip.     {See  Slip.) 

Between  Scylla  and  Charybdis.  Be- 
tween two  equal  dangers  ;  on  the  horns 
of  a  dilemma.     {See  Chaeybdis.) 

Between  two  fires.  Between  two  dan- 
gers. In  war,  an  army  fired  upon  from 
opposite  sides  is  in  imminent  danger. 

Between  two  stools  you  conte  to  the 
y round.  "Like  a  man  on  double  busi- 
ness bound,  I  stand  in  pause  where  I  shall 
first  begin,  and  both  neglect."  He  who 
hunts  two  hares  leaves  one  and  loses  the 
other."  Simul  sorbere  ac  Jtare  non  pos- 
sum. The  allusion  is  to  a  children's 
game  called  "The  Ambassador,"  also  a 
practical  joke  at  one  time  played  at  sea 
when  the  ship  crossed  the  line.  Two 
stools  are  set  side  by  side,  but  somewhat 
apart,  and  a  cloth  is  covered  over  tlieni . 
A  person  sits  on  each  stool  to  keep  the 
cloth  taut,  and  the  ambassador  is  in- 
vited to  sit  in  the  middle ;  but ,  as  soon 
as  he  is  seated,  the  two  rise  and  the 
ambassador  comes  to  the  ground. 

Between  you  and  me  (French,  enlre 
nous).  In  confidence  be  it  spoken. 
Sometimes,  Between  you  and  me  and  the 
yate-post.  These  phrases,  for  the  most 
part,  indicate  that  some  ill-natured  re- 
mark or  slander  is  about  to  be  made  of  a 
third  person,  but  occasionally  they  refer 
to  some  offer  or  private  aft'air.  "Be- 
tween ourselves"  is  another  form  of  the 
same  phrase. 

Betwixt  and  Between.  Neither 
one  nor  the  other,  but  somewhere  be- 
tween the  two.  Thus,  grey  is  neither 
white  nor  black,  but  betwixt  and  be- 
tween the  two. 

Beurre.  Avoir  beurre  sur  la  iite.  To 
bo  covered  with  crimes.  Taken  from  a 
Jewish  saying,  "If  you  have  butter  on 
your  head  {i.e.  have  stolen  butter  and  put 
it  in  your  cap),  don't  go  into  the  sun." 
{Vidocq :  Voleurs,  vol.  i.  f.  16.) 


Beuves 


130 


Bias 


/'//  snis  pour  iiwn  hcitrrc.  Here 
heurre  means  argent.  I  paid  for  it 
through  the  nose.  Beurre  or  butter  has 
the  same  relation  to  food  as  wealth  has 
to  civil  life  ;  it  does  not  take  the  place 
of  it,  and  does  not  make  it,  but  it  makes 
it  go  down  more  pleasantlj',  and  adds 
somewhat  to  its  wholesomeness.  As 
Shakesj^eare  says,  "  Where  vii'tue  is,  it 
makes  more  virtuous." 

Fromcttrc  jiliis  de  heurre  que  de  pain. 
To  promise  much,  but  jDerforni  little. 
To  promise  more  than  one  can,  or 
chooses  to,  ]ierform.  The  butter  of  a  j 
promise  is  of  no  use  without  substantial 
bread.  "Be  thou  fed"  will  not  fill  an 
empty  stomach.  A  little  help  is  worth  a 
deal  of  i)ity. 

Beuves  (1  syl.),  or  Buo'ro  of  Ai/gre'- 
luoiif.  The  father  of  Malagigi,  and  uncle 
of  Einaldo.   (Ariosio  :  Orlando  Furioso.) 

Bever.  A  "di-ink"  between  meals 
(Italian,  hercre,  to  drink — oiu-  beverage  ; 
Latin,  hiberc — our  iin-hihe).  At  Eton 
they  used  to  have  "  Bever  days,"  when 
extra  beer  and  bread  were  served  during 
the  afternoon  in  the  College  Hall  to 
scholars,  and  any  friends  whom  they 
might  bring  in. 

'■  He  .  .  .  will  devour  tliree   lireakfasts  .  .  . 

witliout    iirejiidii'o    to    his    \ie\evi."— Beaumont 
mid  FUtiliir:  Woman  Hater,  i.  3. 

Bev'il.  A  model  gentleman  in  Steele's 
Conscious  Zorers. 

"  Wliate'er  can  dock  mankind, 
Or  cbarni  the  licart,  ;u  s-'enenms  Bcvil  showed." 
Thomson:  Winter,  054-.). 

Be'vis.    The  horse  of  Lord  Marmion. 

(Sir  Walter  Scott.)    (See  Horse.) 

Bevis  of  Southampton.  A.  knight  of 
romance,  whose  ex^jloits  are  recounted 
in  Draj'ton's  Pohjolbion.  The  French 
call  him  Beuves  de  Hantone. 

Bevoriskius,  whose  Coimncntarij  on 
the  (rcnerations  of  Adam  is  referred  to 
by  Sterne  in  the  Sentimental  Joarnei/, 
was  Johannes  Bevoricitts,  physician  and 
senator,  author  of  a  large  nimiber  of 
books.  The  Commentanj  will  be  foimd 
at  fol.  1  (16.32). 

Bev'y.  A  bevy  of  ladies.  A  throng 
or  company  ;  properly  applied  to  roe- 
bucks, quails,  and  pheasants.  Timid 
gregarious  animals,  in  self-defence,  go 
down  to  a  river  to  drink  in  bevies  or 
,  small  comimnies.  Ladies,  from  their 
timidity,  are  placed  in  the  same  category 
(Italian,  bcvcre,  to  drink). 

"And  npon  lier  deck  what  a  bevy  of  human 
flowers— yonnc  women,  how  lovely  !— yimni,'  men, 
how  nolile  '."—Be  Quince!/:  Dream-fugue. 

Beza'liel,  in  the  satii'e  of  Absalom 


a)id  Aehitophel,  by  Drj-den  and  Tate,  is 
meant  for  the  Marquis  of  Worcester, 
afterwards  Duke  of  Beaufort. 

"  Bi'zaliel  with  each  grace  and  virtue  fraught, 
Serene  his  looks,  serene  his  life  and  thought ; 
(la  wboiii  Si)  largely  Nature  heaped  her  store. 
There   scarce   reniaiued  fcir  arts  to  give  him 
mure."  Part  ii.  y47-5«. 

Bezo'nian.  A  new  recruit ;  apjilied 
originally  in  derision,  to  young  soldiers 
sent  from  Spain  to  Italj',  who  landed 
both  ill-accoutred  and  in  want  of  every- 
thing (Ital.  hesogni,  from  bisor/no,  need; 
French  hesoi)i). 

"  Base  and  pilfering  hesoguios  ami  marauders. ' 
—Sir  W.  Scott:  Mojiastertj.xxi. 

"Great  men  oft  die  hy  vile  liezonians. ' 

Slial;e$peare :  -J  Ucnrii  VI.,  act  iv.  I. 

"  Under  which  king,  Bezonian  'i  Speak 
or  die"  (2  Hen.  IV.,  act  v.  3).  Choose 
your  leader  or  take  the  consequences 
— CtEsar  or  Pompey  ?  "  Sjieak  or  die." 

Bheem  or  Bliima.  One  of  the  five 
Pandoos,  or  brotherhoods  of  Indian 
demi-gods,  famous  for  his  strength.  He 
slew  the  giant  Kinchick,  and  dra<;ged 
his  body  from  the  hills,  thereby  making 
the  Kinchick  ravine. 

Biseuin,  in  rhetoric,  means  converting 
the  proof  into  a  disproof.  As  thus : 
That  you  were  the  murderer  is  proved 
by  your  being  on  the  spot  at  the  time. 
Iteplij :  Just  the  contrary,  if  I  had  been 
the  guilty  person  most  certainly  I  should 
have  run  away.     (Greek,  biaton.) 

Bian'ca.  Wife  of  Fazio.  When  Fazio 
became  ricli,  and  got  entangled  with  the 
Marchioness  Aldabella,  she  accused  him 
to  the  Duke  of  Florence  of  being  privy 
to  the  death  of  Bartoldo,  an  old  miser. 
Fazio  was  arrested  and  condemned  to 
death.  Bianca  now  repented  of  her 
jealous  rashness,  and  tried  to  save  her 
husband,  but  failing  in  her  endeavours, 
went  mad,  and  died  of  a  broken  heart. 
(Dean  Mibi/an  :  Fazio.) 

N.  B.  —  The  name  is  employed  by 
Shakespeare  both  in  his  Tamiiuj  of  the 
Shreiv  and  also  in  Othello. 

Bianchi.     (See  Xeei.) 

Bias.  The  weight  in  bowls  which 
makes  them  deviate  from  the  straight 
line  ;  hence  any  favourite  idea  or  pur- 
suit, or  whatever  predisposes  the  mind 
in  a  particular  direction. 

Bowls  are  not  now  loaded,  but  the 
bias  depends  on  the  shape  of  the  bowls. 
They  are  flattened  on  one  side,  and 
therefore  roll  obliquely. 

"  Vour  st<jnmch  niake.'i  your  fabric  roll, 
Just  as  the  bias  rules  the  bowl." 

Prior :  Alma,  iii.  line  i;81. 


Biberius 


131 


Bible 


Biberius  Caldius  Mero.  The  piiu- 
niug  nickname  of  Tiberius  Cliiudiiis 
Nero.  Biberius  [Tiberius],  drink-loving, 
Caldius  Mero  [Claudius  Nero] ,  by  meta- 
thesis for  calidits  mero,  hot  with  wine. 

Bible  means  simply  a  book,  but  is 
now  exclusively  confined  to  the  "Book 
of  Books."     (Greek,  bihlus,  a  book.) 

'The  /lect'Iiiu/s  of  t/ic  chapters  'vvero  pre- 
fixed by  Miles  ymith,  Bishop  of  Glou- 
cester, one  of  the  translators. 

(i)  Bibles  named  from  eeeoes  of 
TYPE,  or  from  archaic  words : — 

The  Breeches  Bible.  So  called  because 
Genesis  iii.  7  was  rendered,  "  The  eyes 
of  them  botho  were  opened  ....  and 
they  sowed  figge-tree  leaves  together,  and 
made  themselves  breeches."  By  Whit- 
tiugham.  Gilby,  and  Sampson,  1579. 

The  Idle  Bible,  1809.  In  which  the 
"  idole  shepherd "  (Zech.  xi.  17)  is 
printed  "the  idle  shei^herd." 

The  Bug  Bible,  15.51.  So  called 
because  Psalm  xci.  5  is  translated,  "Thou 
shalt  not  be  afraid  of  bugges  [bogies] 
hy  nighte." 

Tlie  Urcnt  Bible.  The  same  as  Mat- 
thew Parker's  Bible  {'j.r.). 

2'hc  Flacc-malccr'' s  Bible.  So  called 
from  a  printer's  error  in  Matt.  v.  9, 
"Blessed  are  the  placemakers  [peace- 
makers], for  they  shall  be  called  the 
children  of  God." 

The  Printers^  Bible  makes  David 
pathetically  comijlaiu  that  "  the  printers 
[princes]  have  persecuted  me  without  a 
cause  "  (Ps.  cxix.  161). 

The  Treacle  Btblc,  1549  (Beck's  Bible), 
in  which  the  word  "balm"  is  rendered 
"treacle."  The  Bisho^js'  Bible  has 
tryacle  in  Jer.  iii.  28;  xlvi.  11;  and  in 
Ezek.  xxvii.  17. 

The  Uuriffhteon.i  Bible,  1G52  (Cam- 
hridge  Press).  So  called  from  the  print- 
er's error,  "Know  ye  not  that  the 
unrighteous  shall  inherit  the  Kingdom 
of  God?"  (1  Cor.  vi.  9). 

The  Viiieijar  Bible.  So  called  because 
the  heading  to  Luke  xx.  is  given  as 
"  The  parable  of  the  Vinegar"  (instead 
of  Viuej'ard).  Printed  at  the  Clarendon 
Press  in  1717. 

The  Wicked  Bible.  So  called  because 
the  word  )iot  is  omitted  in  the  seventh 
commandment,  making  it,  "  Thou  shalt 
commit  adultery."  Printed  by  Barker 
and  Lucas,  1632. 

To  tliese  may  he  added:  the  Discharge  Bible, 
the  Ears  to  Ear  Bible,  Rebecca'8  Camels  Bible, 
the  Kosin  Bible,  the  Standing  Fishes  Bible,  and 
some  others. 

'     (ii)    Bibles     named    from    peoper 
KAiiES,  or  dignities. 


Bishop's  Bible.  The  revised  edition  of 
Archbishop  Parker's  version.  Published 
1568. 

(Jovcrdale'' s  Bible,  1535.  Translated  by 
Miles  Coverdale,  afterwards  Bishop  of 
Exeter.  This  was  the  first  Bible  sanc- 
tioned by  roj^al  authority. 

CraiiiHer's  Bible,  1539.  This  is  Cover- 
dale's  Bible  corrected  by  Archbishop 
Craumer.  It  was  printed  in  1540,  and 
in  1549  every  parish  church  was  enjoined 
to  have  a  copy  under  a  penalty  of  40s.  a 
month. 

The  Doiiai/  Bible,  1581.  A  translation 
made  by  tlio  professors  of  the  Douay 
College  for  the  use  of  English  boys  de- 
signed for  the  Catholic  pilesthood. 

The  Geneva  Bible.  The  Bible  trans- 
lated by  the  English  exiles  at  Geneva. 
The    same    as    the    "Breeches    Bible" 

I\.i>'f/  James's  Bible.  The  Authorised 
Version  ;  so  called  because  it  was  under- 
taken by  command  of  James  I.  Pub- 
lished 1611. 

Mattheir  FayJai-'s  Bible,  or  "The 
Great  Bible,"  published  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  VIII.  under  the  care  of  Ai-ch- 
bishop  Parker  and  his  staff  (1539-1541). 
In  1572  several  jjrolegomena  were 
added. 

Matt  heirs'  Bible  is  Tindal's  version.  It 
was  so  called  by  John  Rogers,  super- 
intendent of  the  English  churches  in 
Germany,  and  was  published  with  notes 
under  the  fictitious  name  of  Thomas 
Matthews,  1537. 

The  Mazarine  Bible.  Tlie  earliest  book 
jn-iuted  in  movable  metal  type.  It  con- 
tains no  date.  Copies  have  been  re- 
cently sold  from  £2,000  to  £3,900.  Called 
the  Mazarine  Bible  from  the  Bibliotheqiie 
Mazurinc,  founded  in  Paris  by  Cardinal 
Mazarine  in  1648. 

Sact/'s  Bible.  So  called  from  Isaac 
Louis  Sacy  {Le-maistre),  director  of  the 
Port  Royal  Monastery.  He  was  im- 
prisoned for  three  years  in  the  Bastille 
for  his  Jansenist  opinions,  and  translated 
the  Bible  during  his  captivity  (1666- 
1670). 

'Ti/ndale's  Bible.  "William  Tyndale,  or 
Tindal,  having  embraced  the  Refoimcd 
religion,  retired  to  Antwerp,  where  lu 
printed  an  English  translation  of  the 
Scriptures.  All  the  copies  were  bouglit 
tip,  whereupon  Tjiidale  printed  a  revised 
edition.  The  book  excited  the  rancour 
of  the  Catholics,  who  strangled  the 
"  heretic  "  and  burnt  his  body  near  Ant- 
werp in  153G. 

JFi/elif's  Bible,  1380,  but  first  printed 
in  1850. 


Bible-backed 


13d 


Bickerstaff 


(iii)  Versions. 

Tlic  AatJioriscd  J'ersioti,  1611.  {SfC 
King  James's  Bible.) 

'T/ie  Revised  Version.  Published  in 
May,  1885.  The  work  was  begun  in 
June,  1870,  by  twenty-five  scholars,  ten 
of  whom  died  before  the  version  was 
completed.  The  revisers  had  eighty-five 
sessions,  which  extended  over  fourteen 
years. 

Bible-backed.  Eound-shouldered, 
like  one  who  is  always  poring  over  a 
book. 

Bible-carrier  (^).  Apogram;  creak- 
shoes  ;  or  saint,  in  a  scornful  sense. 

"Of  all  biiokes,  tbey  least  respect  the  Bible. 
Many  will  have  statute  bookes,  cronicles,  yea 
lilay-bookes,  and  sucli-like  toyish  pamiihlets,  but 
ii;it  a  biljle  iu  their  house  or  bands.  .  .  .  Some 
vse  to  carry  other  bookes  with  them  to  church 
.  .  .  to  draw  away  their  mindes  from  hearing 
(-fod's  Word  when  it  is  read  ami  preached  to  them. 
Some  {.'lie  yet  further,  and  will  not  suffer  their 
wives,  children,  or  other  of  their  household  to 
reade  the  AVord.  And  some  scoflfe  at  such  as 
carry  the  scriptures  with  them  to  church,  termini; 
them  in  reproach  Bibh-carriers." — Gouc/e:  Whole 
Aimuur  of  God,  p.  318  U616'. 

Bible  Christians.  A  Protestant 
sect  founded  in  1815  by  William 
O'Bryan,  a  Weslej-an,  of  Cornwall; 
also  called  Bryauites  (3  syl.). 

Bible-Clerk.  A  sizar  of  tlie  Oxford 
university ;  a  student  who  gets  certain 
pecuniary  advantages  for  reading  the 
Bible  aloud  at  chaijel.  The  office  is 
almo.st  a  sinecure  now,  but  the  emolu- 
ment is  given,  in  some  colleges,  to  the 
sons  of  poor  gentlemen,  either  as  a  free 
gift,  or  as  the  reward  of  merit  tested  by 
examination. 

Bible  Statistics. 

The  Xumlier  of  Authors  is  .W. 

Aiiout  30  hooks  are  mentioned  in  the  Bilde,  but 
not  included  in  the  canon. 

In  the  Old  In  the  New        Tit-ji 

Testament.  Testament.        -lotai. 

Books  ....  39  27  fifi 

flmpters   ..  Sfj'j  260  ],isy 

Verses..     ..        2.3,214  7,fti9  31,173 

"Words..     ..       .5!i2,439  181,253  773'«i« 

Letters       ..    2,728,800  838,.380         3,.i(i7,l8n 

Apncriipha.     Books,  14;  chapters,  183;  verses, 
6,fk'<l  ;  words,  252,185  ;  letters,  1,063,876. 
Jliildle  book..    ..    Proverbs        2  Thess. 
Middle  chapter  ..    Job  xxix.       Rom.  xiii.  i- xiv. 
Middle  verse      ..    2  Chron.  xx.   Acts  xvii.  17. 

(between  verses  17  and  18) 
Least  verse  . .    ..    ICliron.  i.  25,  John  xi.  35. 
Smallest  chapter     Psalra  cxvii. 
Longest  chapter      Psalm  cxix. 

Ezra  vii.  21  contains  all  the  letters  of  the  alpha- 
be*,  except;. 

2  Kinjis  XIX.  and  Isaiali  xxxvi.  are  exactly  alike. 

The  hist  two  verses  of  2  Chron.  and  the  opening 
verses  of  Ezra  are  alike. 

E/ra  ii.  and  Nehemiah  vii.  are  alike. 

The  word  and  occurB  in  the  Old  Testament 
35.543  times. 

The  word  and  occurs  in  the  New  Testament 
10,684  times. 

The  vorilJehovah  occurs  efiao  times. 

The  letter  Mem  in  the  Hebrew  text  occurs 
77,778  times, 


The  letter  Vau  in  the  Hebrew  text  occurs 
76,'.i22  times.    (These  are  the  most  frenuent.) 

The  letter  Tetli  occurs  11,052  times. 

The  letter  Samech  occurs  13,580  times.  (These 
are  the  least  freciuent.l 

The  BilUe  was  divided'into  cAa/iffrs  by  Cardinal 
Hugo  de  Sancto-Caro,  about  12.'i6. 

The  Old  Testament  was  divided  into  verses  by 
Rabbi  Mordecai  Nathan  ;  and  the  NewTestament, 
in  1544,  by  R.  Stephens,  a  French  printer,  it  is 
said,  wuile  on  horseback. 

Of  the  3,000  languages  and  dialects  on  the  earth, 
the  Bible  has  been  translated  into  180. 

The  Septuagiut,  a  translation  into  Greek,  was 
made  in  Egypt  285  B.C. 

The  first  complete  English  translation  was  bv 
Wicklif,  A.D.  1.3,sn  ;  the  first  French  translation, 
in  1160  ;  the  first  German,  in  1460  ;  the  first  .\meri- 
c:in  edition  was  printed  at  Boston  in  17.i2. 

The  oldest  MS.  of  the  Bible  in  the  British 
Museum  is  the  "Codex  Alexandrinus."  Parts  of 
tlie  New  Testament  are  omitted.  The  "  Corlex 
Vaficanns"  is  the  oldest  in  the  Vatican  Library 
a  I  Rome. 

Bib'lia  Pau'perum  [f^ie  poor  mai/^s 
Jjible].  Some  forty  or  fifty  pictures  of 
Bible  subjects  used  iu  the  Middle  Ages, 
when  few  could  read,  to  teach  the  leading 
events  of  Scripture  history.  {See  Mierok 
OF  Human  Salvation.) 

Biblical.  Father  of  Bib/ical  critieisin 
and  exegesis.     Origen  (185-25-1). 

Bibliomancy.  Forecasting  future 
events  by  the  Bible.  The  plan  was  to 
open  the  sacred  volume  at  random,  and 
lay  your  finger  on  a  passage  without 
looking  at  it.  The  text  thus  pointed  out 
was  sujjposed  to  be  applicable  to  the 
person  who  pointed  it  out.  (Greek, 
bihlia,  Bible  ;  iiieiiiteicc,  prophecy.)  {Sea 
SOETES.  ) 

V  Another  process  was  to  weigh  a 
person  suspected  of  magic  against  a 
Bible.  If  the  Bible  bore  dowm  the 
other  scale,  the  accused  was  acquitted. 

Bib'ulus.  Colleague  of  Julius  Caesar, 
a  mere  cipher  in  office,  whence  his  name 
has  become  proverbial  for  one  in  office 
who  is  a  vaexe  faineant. 

Biceps.  Muscular  strength  of  tlie 
arm  ;  properly,  the  prominent  muscles  of 
the  uj)per  arm  ;  so  called  because  they 
have  two  heads.  (Latin,  bieepx,  two 
heads.) 

Biceps  Parnassus  {Pers.  Frol.  2), 
i.e.  Parnassus  with  two  heads  or  tops 
{bis  eaput). 

"  Xec  foute  labra  prolui  caballino, 
Nee  in  bicipiti  somniasse  Parnasso 
Memiui,  ut  repente  sic  poeta  prodireir. 
Pirniits  :  Saiirrs  (prologue  . 

Bick'erstaff  {Isaae).  A  name  as- 
sumed by  Dean  Swift  iu  a  satirical 
pamjihlet  against  Partridge,  the  alman- 
ack-maker. This  produced  a  paper  war 
so  diverting  that  Steele  issued  tlie 
Tatler  under  the  editorial  name  of 
"Isaac  Bickerstaff,  Esq.,  Astrologer'' 
(1709). 


Bicorn 


133 


Big  Gooseberry 


Bicorn.  An  hypothetical  beast  sup- 
posed to  devour  all  meu  under  petti- 
coat govemnieut.  It  is  described  as 
very  fat  and  well  liking.  There  was 
another  beast  called  Chichevache,  which 
fed  on  obedient  wives,  but  the  famished 
beast  was  thinner  than  the  most  rascal 
of  Pharaoh's  lean  kine,  for  its  food 
always  fell  short.  Of  course,  bi-corn 
(two-homs)  contains  an  allusion  familiar 
to  all  readers  of  our  early  literature. 

Bid.  To  bid  fair.  To  seem  likely: 
as  "He  bids  fair  to  do  well;"  '"It 
bids  fair  to  be  a  fine  day."  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  btd(()i  or  bcodau,  to  promise,  to 
otfer.) 

I'u  bid  for  [votes].  To  promise  to 
support  in  ParUameut  certuiu  measures, 
in  order  to  obtain  votes. 

To  bid  (ijjuiust  one.  To  offer  or  pro- 
mise a  higher  price  for  au  article  at 
auction. 

I  bid  him  defiance.  I  offer  him  de- 
fiance ;  I  defy  him. 

Bid.  I  bid  ijou  good  niyht.  I  wish 
you  good  night,  or  1  pray  that  j^ou  may 
have  a  good  night.  This  is  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  liddan,  to  ask,  pray,  or  intreat. 
Whence  "beads-men"  {q.i'.),  "bidding 
praj'er  "  (q.v.).  "Bid  him  welcome." 
"  Xeitber  bid  him  God-speed."— 2  John  10, 11. 

To  bid  the  \_inarria(ie'\  banns.  To  ask 
if  anyone  objects  to  the  maiTiage  of  the 
jjersous  named.     "  'S7  rjais"  {q.v.). 

To  bid  to  the  icedding.  In  the  New 
Testament  is  to  ask  to  the  wedding 
feast. 

Bid-ale.  An  invitation  of  friends  to 
assemble  at  the  house  of  a  poor  man  to 
drink  ale,  and  thus  to  raise  alms  for  his 
relief. 

"The  ordinary  amusements  in  country  parishes 
(in  IBSa)  were  church-ales,  clerk-ales,  and  hid- 
ales,  .  .  .  consisting  of  drinking  and  spurts, 
particularly  dancing."— T.  V.  Short,  D.D.:  Uistonj 
o/  the  Church  of  England,  p.  39'J. 

"  Denham,  in  1634,  issued  an  order  in  the  western 
circuit  to  put  an  end  to  the  disorders  attending 
church-ales,  bid-ales,  clerk-ales,  and  the  like."— 
llirtvitt:  History  oj  England  (Charles  I.,  chap.  iii. 
p.  159i. 

Bidding  Beads.  Telling  off  praj-ers 
by  beads  (Anglo-Saxon,  biddan,  to  ask, 
to  pray). 

Bidding-Prayer.  The  prayer  for 
the  soaU  of  benefactors  said  before  the 
sermon ;  a  reUc  of  this  remains  in  the 
prayer  used  in  cathedrals,  university 
churches,  etc.  Bidding  is  from  bead  or 
hede.  (Anglo-Saxon,  biddan,  to  pray 
for  the  souls  of  benefactors.)  {Sec 
Beadsman.) 


Biddy  {i.e.  Bridget).  A  generic  name 
for  an  Iri.sh  servant-maid,  as  Mike  is  for 
an  Irish  labourer.  These  generic  names 
are  very  common :  for  example,  Tom 
Tug,  a  watennan ;  Jack  Pudding,  a 
buffoon  ;  Cousin  Jonathan,  an  American 
of  the  United  States ;  Cousin  Michel,  a 
Gei-man  ;  John  Bull,  an  Enghshman ; 
Moll  and  Betty,  English  female  servants 
of  the  lower  oi-der ;  John  Chinaman,  a 
Chinese  ;  Colin  Tompou,  a  Swiss  ;  Kic 
Frog,  a  Dutchman;  Mossoo,  a  French- 
man ;  and  manj-  othei's. 

V  In  Ai'buthnot's  John  Ball 'Sic  Frog 
is  certainly  a  Dutchman ;  and  Frogs 
are  called  "Dutch  Xightiugales."  Tlic 
French  sometimes  serve  Liege  frogs  at 
table  as  a  great  delicac}-,  and  this  has 
caused  the  word  to  be  transferred  to  the 
French ;  but,  properly,  Nic  Frog  is  a 
Dutchman. 

Bideford  Postman.  Edward  Capern, 
the  poet  (born  1819),  so  called  because 
at  one  time  he  was  a  letter-carrier  at 
Bideford.     He  died  in  1894. 

Bidpai.     {Sec  Pilpai.] 

Biforked   Letter   of  the    Greeks. 

The  cajjital  U,  made  thus  V,  which  re- 
sembles a  bird  flyiug. 

■'[The  birds]  flying,  write  upon  the  sky 
The  biforked  letter  of  the  Greeks." 

Loui/fcUoic  :  The  Wui/side  fun,  prelude. 

Bif  rost,  in  Scandinavian  mythology, 
is  the  name  of  the  bridge  between  heaven 
and  earth  ;  the  rainbow  may  be  consi- 
dered to  be  this  bridge,  and  its  various 
colours  are  the  reflections  of  its  precious 
stones.  (Icelandic,  bifa,  tremble,  and 
rost,  path.) 

V  The  keeper  of  the  bridge  is  Heim- 
dall.  It  leads  to  Doomstead,  the  palace 
of  the  Norns  or  Fates. 

Big.  To  look  bi(/.  To  assume  a  con- 
sequential air. 

'To  talk  biff.     To  boast  or  brag. 
"  The  archdeacon  waxeil  wroth,  talked  big.  and 
looked  liig^'er."— rro;(«j;e  ;  The  ll'iotZrH,  chap.  lo. 

Big  Bird.  To  get  the  big  bird  {i.e. 
the  goose).  To  be  hissed  on  the  stage. 
A  tlieatrical  expression. 

Big-en  dians.  A  religious  party  in 
the  empire  of  Lilliput,  who  made  it  a 
matter  of  conscience  to  break  their  eggs 
at  the  big  end;  they  were  looked  on  , as 
heretics  by  the  orthodox  party,  who 
broke  theirs  at  the  small  end.  The  Big- 
endians  are  the  Catholics,  and  the  Little- 
endians  the  Protestants. 

Big  Gooseberry  Season  {The).  The 
time  when  Parliament  is  not  assembled. 


Big-wig 


134 


Bill 


It  is  at  siicli  times  that  newspapers 
are  glad  of  any  subject  to  till  their 
columus  aud  amuse  their  readers ; 
monster  gooseberries  will  do  for  such 
a  purpose  for  the  nonce,  or  the  sea- 
serpent. 

Big-wig  (A).  A  person  in  authority, 
a  "  nob."  Of  course,  the  term  arises 
from  the  custom  of  judges,  bishops,  and 
so  on,  wearing  large  wigs.  Bishojjs  no 
longer  wear  them. 

Bigaroon.  Incorrectly  spelt  Bicn- 
rooii.     A  white-heart  cherry.     (French, 

bif/arrean;  Latin,  bif/an'Ua  ;  i.e.  bisvar- 
clhfs,  double-varied,  red  and  white 
mixed.  The  French  word,  bigarrurc, 
means  party-colour,  bif/arrcr). 

Bighes  (pron.  bees).  Jewels,  female 
ornaments.     (Also  wi'itten  bic.) 

iShc  is  all  in  her  biffJies  to-day — i.e.  in 
full  fig,  in  excellent  spii'its,  in  good 
humour. 

Bight.  To  hook  the  biijht—i.e.  to  get 
entangled.  The  bight  is  the  bend  or 
doubled  jiart  of  a  rope,  and  when  the 
rope  of  one  anchor  gets  into  the  '  •  bight ' ' 
of  another,  it  gets  "  hooked." 

Bigorne    (2  syl.).    A  corruption  of 

"  Bicorn  "  [q.e.). 

Big'ot  means  simply  a  worshipper 
(Anglo-oaxon,  bir/aii,  to  worship  :  Ger- 
man, higott).  Various  explanations  have 
been  given  from  time  to  time,  but  none 
are  well  supported. 

Bigot  and  his  Castle  of  Bungay. 

('SVf  Uastle,  etc.) 

Bil'bo.  A  rapier  or  sword.  So  called 
from  Bilba'o,  in  Spain,  once  famous  for 
its  finely-tempered  blades.  Falstaff  says 
to  Ford : 

"  I  suffered  tlie  pangs  of  three  se\  eral  deaths  ; 
first,  .an  intoloraljle  friwht,  to  be  detected  .  .  . 
next,  t,o  lie  comr.issed,  liku  a  good  bilbo  .  .  .  hilt 
to  point,  heel  to  head  ;  and  then  .  .  ."—Merry 
Wivs.  iii. ."). 

Bilboes.  A  bar  of  iron  with  fetters 
annexed  to  it,  by  which  mutinous  sailors 
are  linked  together.  The  word  is  de- 
rived from  Bilba'o,  in  Spain,  where  they 
Avere  first  made.  Some  of  tlie  bilboes 
taken  from  the  Spanish  Arma'da  are 
still  kept  in  the  Tower  of  London. 

Bile.  li  roHses  my  bile.  It  makes  mo 
angry  or  indignant.  In  Latin,  bi/iostis 
(a  bilious  man)  meant  a  choleric  one. 
According  to  the  ancient  theory,  bile  is 
one  of  the  humours  of  the  body,  and 


when  excited    abnormally  it    produces 
choler  or  rage. 

"It  raised  my  bile  to  see  him  so  rcflei-t  tlieir 
grief  aside."— /ioorf ;  Pica  of  Midsummer  Fairies, 
stanza  54. 

*.'  Black  bile  is  melancholy. 

Bilge  Water.  Filthy  draiuiugs.  The 
bilge  is  the  lowest  part  of  a  ship,  and, 
as  the  rain  or  sea-water  which  trickles 
down  to  this  part  is  hard  to  get  at,  it  is 
apt  to  become  foul  and  very  offensive. 

Bilk.  To  cheat,  to  obtain  goods  and 
decamp  without  paj'ing  for  them. 

"The  landlord  explained  it  by  saying  that 'a 
bilk '  is  a  man  who  never  missL's  a  nie.il  and  never 
pays  a  cent."— ^.  A.  McClurc:  liocky  Mountains, 
letter  xxii.  p.  211. 

*«*  To  "bilk"  in  cribbage  is  to  spoil 
your  adversaries'  score ;  to  balk  him. 
Perhaps  the  two  words  are  mere  variants. 

Bilker  {A).  A  person  who  gives  a 
cabman  less  than  his  fare,  and,  when 
remonstrated  with,  gives  a  false  name 
and  address.  Sometimes  a  "bilker" 
gets  out  and  says,  "  Cabby,  I  sliall  bo 
back  in  a  minute,"  turns  the  corner  and 
is  no  more  seen. 

"Th-'  time  for  taking  out  a  summons  expires  in 
s 'ven  days,  and  it  often  takers  longer  than  lliat 
to  hunt  a  'bilker'  do\\n."—Xinctcentlt  Century 
(March,  18U3,  p.  177). 

Also  a  cabman  who  does  not  pay  the 
owner  for  the  cab. 

Bill  {The).  The  nose,  also  called  the 
beak.  Hence,  "Billy"  is  slang  for  a 
pocket  -  handkerchief. 

"  Lastly  came  Winter,  clothed  all  in  frize. 

Chattering  his  teeth  for  cold  that  did  him 
chill ; 
Whilst  on  his  hoary  l)eard  his  breath  did  freeze  ; 
And  the  dull  drops  that  from  his  purple  bill 

[nose], 
As  from  a  limbeck,  did  adown  distill." 

Spenser :  Faerie  Qnecne,  canto  vii. 

Bill  {A).  The  draft  of  an  Act  of 
Parliament. 

A  public  bill  is  the  draft  of  an  Act  of 
Parliament  affecting  the  general  public. 

A  private  bill  is  the  draft  of  an  Act  of 
Parliament  for  the  granting  of  some- 
thing to  a  company,  coriDOratiou,  or 
certain  individuals. 

A  true  bill.  I  confess  what  you  say 
is  true.  The  case  against  the  accused  is 
first  submitted  to  the  grand  jury.  If 
they  think  the  clinrge  has  a  fair  colour, 
they  write  on  the  declaration  "A  true 
bill,"  and  the  case  is  submitted  to  the 
petty  jury.  Otherwise,  they  write  "No 
true  bill,"  or  "Not  found,"  and  the  case 
is  at  once  dismissed  or  "  ignored." 

To  ignore  a  bill  is  to  write  on  it  igno- 
ra  III /!.'<. 

"'  Ignoramus'  is  the  word  proi.erly  used  by  I  he 
Grand  Buiiuest  .  .  .  aud  written  upon  the  bill."— 
Cuwell. 


Bill  of  Fare 


]:« 


Billy  Barlow 


Bills  payahlc.  Bills  of  exchange, 
promissory  uotes,  or  other  documeuts 
promising  to  pay  a  sum  of  money. 

Bills  recei cable.  Promissory  notes, 
bills  of  exchange,  or  other  acceptances 
held  by  a  person  to  whom  the  money 
stated  is  payable. 

Bill  of  Fare  (.i).  A  Hst  of  the  menu 
pro\'ided,  or  which  may  be  ordered,  at  a 
restaurant. 

Bill  of  Health.  A  clean  hill  of  health. 
A  document,  duly  signed  by  the  proper 
authorities,  to  certify  that  when  the  ship 
set  sail  no  infectious  disorder  existed  in 
the  place. 

A  foul  bill  of  health  is  a  document  to 
show  that  the  place  was  suffering  from 
some  infection  when  the  ship  set  sail. 
If  a  captain  cannot  show  a  clean  bill,  he 
is  supposed  to  have  a  foul  one. 

Bill  of  Lading.  A  document  signed 
by  the  master  of  a  ship  in  acknowledg- 
ment of  goods  laden  in  his  vessel.  In 
tliis  document  he  ])inds  himself  to  deliver 
the  articles  in  good  condition  to  the 
]iersons  named  in  the  bill,  certain  excep- 
tions being  duly  provided  for.  These 
bills  are  generally  in  triplicate — one  for 
the  sender,  one  for  the  receiver,  and  one 
for  the  master  of  the  vessel. 

Bill  of  Pains  and  Penalties  {A). 
A  legislative  act  imposing  punishment 
(less  than  capital)  upon  a  person  charged 
with  treason  or  other  high  crimes. 

Bill  of  Quantities.  An  abstract  of 
the  probable  cost  of  a  building. 

Bill  of  Rights.  The  declaration  de- 
livered to  the  I'riuce  of  Orange  on  his 
election  to  the  British  throne,  coutirm- 
iug  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the 
people.     (Feb.  Kith,  1689.) 

Bill  of  Sale.  When  a  fierson  borrows 
money  and  delivers  goods  as  security,  he 
gives  him  a  bill  of  sale,  that  is,  i^ermis- 
sion  to  sell  the  goods  if  the  money  is  not 
returned  on  a  stated  day. 

Bills  of  Mortality  took  their  rise 
in  1.592.  when  a  great  pestilence  broke 
out,  which  continued  till  1.595.  The 
term  is  now  used  for  those  abstracts 
from  parish  registers  which  show  the 
births,  deaths,  and  baptisms  of  the 
district. 

Within  the  Bills  of  Mjvfalitij  =  within 
the  disti'ict. 

Bills  of  Parcels.  An  itemised 
statement  of  articles  purchased.  These 
bills  are  iteuii^ed  by  the  seller. 


Billee'  {Utile).  The  youngest  of 
"Three  sailors  of  Bristol  city,"  who 
"  took  a  boat  and  went  to  sea." 

"  There  Avas  gorging  Jack,  and  frnzzlincr  Jimiiiv, 

And  the  youngest— he  was  little  Billee. 

Now,  when  the.v  got  as  far  as  the  equatdr. 

They  had  nothing  left  Imt  one  si)lit  iie.i. 

To  gorging  Jack  s.ays  guzzling  Jimmy, 

■  We've  nothing  left,  we  must  eat  we.'  ' 

Thackeniy. 

[They  decide  to  eat  Little  Billee,  but 
he  contrives  to  escape.] 

Billet-doux  Qn-onounce  billy  doo]. 
French,  a  love-letter,  a  sweet  or  affec- 
tionate letter. 

Billiards.  A  corrupt  form  of  the 
French  billard.  "  Autrtfoi-^,  le  baton 
area  lequel  on  poussait  les  billes  "  ;  then 
"  la  table  verte  sur  laqiiellc  onjoiie  ";  and, 
lastly,  the  "  game  itself." 

Similar  plural  forms  are  the  games  called 
liowls,  cards,  domiuoes,draughts,  marbles,  nuoits, 
skittles,  tovj,  etc. 

Billings  {-Tosh).  The  no/n  de  plxma 
of  H.  \V.  Shaw,  an  American  humorist, 
who  died  18S).  Yi.hBook  of  Saijingswsi's 
published  in  ISGG. 

Billingsgate  (London).  (J  ale  = 
quay,  and  bcllan  is  to  bawl  or  bellow. 
This  quay  is  so  called  from  the  shouting 
of  the  fishemien  in  trying  to  attract 
attention  and  vend  their  fish. 

ThaVs  BilU)Hj»(jate.  Vulgar  and 
coarse,  like  the  manners  and  language 
of  Billingsgate  fish-fags. 

'■Parnassus  spoke  the  cant  of  BillincsL'nie." 
lliijden  :  .4  it  of  P(i(try,  c.  1. 

To  talk  Billingsignfc,  i.e.  to  slang,  to 
scold  in  a  vulgar,  coarse  style. 

You  arc  no  better  than  a  Billingsgate 
fishfag,  i.e.  you  are  as  rude  and  ill- 
mannered  as  the  women  of  Billingsgate 
fish-market.  The  French  say  ''Maubert  " 
instead  of  Billingsgate,  as  Your  compli- 
ments are  like  those  of  the  Place  Maubert, 
i.e.  no  compliments  at  all,  but  vulgar 
dirt-flinging.  The  '•  Place  Maubert  "  has 
long  been  noted  for  its  market. 

Billingsgate  Pheasant  (-/).     A  red 

heiTing. 

Billy.  A  policeman's  staff,  which  is  a 
little  bill  or  bUlet. 

A  pocket-handkerchief.  "A  blue 
billy"  is  a  handkerchief  with  blue 
groimd  and  white  spots. 

Billy  Barlow.  A  street  droll,  a 
merry  Andrew  ;  so  called  from  a  half- 
idiot  of  the  name,  who  fancied  himself 
"some  gi'ent  personage."  He  was  well 
known  in  the  East  of  London,  and  died 
iu  Whitechanel  workhouse.    Some  of  his 


Billycock  Hats 


136 


Bird  in  the  Hand 


sayings  were  really  witty,  and  some  of 
his  attitudes  realljr  droll. 

Billycock  Hats.  First  used  by 
Billy  Coke  (Mr.  William  Coke)  at  the 
great  shooting  parties  at  Holkham.  The 
old-established  hatters  in  the  West  End 
still  call  them  "  Coke  hats." 

Bi-metallism.  The  employment  of 
two  metals,  silver  and  gold,  of  fixed 
relative  value.  Now  gold  is  the  only 
standard  metal  in  England  and  some 
other  countries.  Silver  coins  are  mere 
tokens,  like  copper  coins ;  and  if  given 
in  payment  of  large  sums  are  estimated 
at  the  market  value,  so  much  an  ounce ; 
but  a  gold  sovereign  is  always  of  one 
fixed  legal  value. 

Binary  Arithmetic.  Arithmetic  in 
which  the  base  of  the  notation  is  2 
instead  of  10.  The  unit  followed  by  a 
cipher  signifies  two,  by  another  xitif  it 
signifies  three,  by  two  cip/ierx  it  signifies 
four,  and  so  on.  Thus,  10  signifies  two, 
100  signifies  four;  wliile  11  signifies  3, 
•  etc. 

Bi'nary  Theory.  A  theory  which 
supi^oses  that  all  definite  chemical  salts 
are  combinations  of  two  radicles  or 
elements,  one  of  which  is  electro-positive 
(basic),  and  the  other  electro-negative 
(acid). 

Bingham's  Dandies.  The  17th 
Lancers  ;  so  called  from  their  colonel, 
the  Earl  of  Lucan,  formerly  Lord 
Bingham.  The  imiform  is  noted  for  its 
admu-able  fit  and  smartness.  Now 
called  "  The  Duke  of  Cambridge's  Own 
Lancers." 

Bin'nacle.  The  case  of  the  mariner's 
compass,  which  used  to  be  wi-itten 
bittacle,  a  corruption  of  the  Portuguese 
bitacola,  French,  habitacle,  properlj'  an 
abode. 

Birchin  Lane.  I  must  soul  you  to 
Bircliin  Lane,  i.e.  whip  you.  The  play 
is  on  birch  (a  rod). 

yi  suit  in  Birchin  Lane.  Birchin  Lane 
was  once  famous  for  all  sorts  of  apparel ; 
references  to  second-hand  clothes  in 
Birchin  Lane  are  common  enough  in 
Elizabethan  books. 

"  Passing  through  Birchin  Lane  amidst  a  camp- 
royal  of  hose  and  doublets,  I  took  .  .  .  occasion 
to  slip  into  a  captaiu'ssuit— a  valiant  liuff  doublet 
stuffed  with  points  and  a  pair  of  vehet  slops 
Bcored  thick  with  la.ce. "—Middleton  :  Black  Booh 
(1601). 

Bird.    An  endearing  name  for  giil. 

"  And  liy  my  word,  your  bonuie  bird 
In  danger  shall  not  tarry  ; 
So,  though  the  waves  are  raging  white, 
I'll  row  you  o'er  the  ferry." 

Campbell:  Lord  Ullin's  Daiif/Mcr. 


Bird  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  brid,  the 
young  of  any  animal,  hence  bride,  verb, 
be  ran,  to  bi'ing  forth. 

A  bird  of  iU-omen.  A  person  who  is 
regarded  as  unlucky ;  one  who  is  in  the 
habit  of  bringing  ill-news.  The  ancients 
thought  that  some  birds  indicated  good 
luck,  and  others  evil.  Even  to  the  pre- 
sent day  many  look  upon  owls,  crows, 
and  ravens  as  unlucky  birds ;  swallows 
and  storks  as  lucky  ones. 

Eavens,  by  their  acute  sense  of  smell, 
discern  the  savour  of  dying  bodies, 
and,  under  the  hope  of  prej^ing  on 
tliem,  light  on  chinmey-tops  or  flutter 
about  sick  rooms  ;  hence  the  raven  indi- 
cates death.  Owls  screech  when  bad 
weather  is  at  hand,  and  as  foul  weather 
often  precedes  sickness,  so  the  owl  is 
looked  on  as  a  fimeral  bird. 

A  bird  of  passage.  A  person  who  shifts 
from  place  to  place  ;  a  temporary  visit- 
ant, like  a  cuckoo,  the  swallows,  star- 
lings, etc. 

A  jail-bird.     (Sec  Jail.) 

2'hc  bird  of  Juno.     The  peacock. 

*.'  Minerva's  bird  is  either  the  cock  or 
the  owl ;  that  of  Venus  is  the  dove. 

The  bird  of  Washington.  The  Ameri- 
can or  baldheaded  eagle. 

"  The  well-known  bahl-headed  eagle,  sometimes 
called  the  Bird  of  Washington."— iroorf. 

The  Arabian  bird.     The  phoenix. 

The  green  bird  tells  everything  a 
person  wishes  to  know.  {Cherrg  and 
Fairstar.) 

The  talking  bird  spoke  ■with  a  human 
voice,  and  could  bid  all  other  birds  join 
in  concert.     {Arabian  Kights.) 

Old  birds  are  not  to  be  caught  tvith 
chaff.     Experience  teaches  wisdom. 

One  beats  the  bush,  and  another  takes 
the  bird.  The  workman  does  the  work, 
the  master  makes  the  money. 

^Tts   the  carig  bird   that  catches   the 

u'orm. 

"  Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise, 
Makes  a  man  healthy,  wealthy,  and  wise." 

A  little  bird  told  me  so.  From  Eccles. 
x.  20  :  ''  Curse  not  the  king,  no  not  in 
thy  thought,  .  .  .  for  a  bird  of  the  air 
shall  carry  the  voice,  and  that  which 
hath  wings  shall  tell  the  matter." 

Bird  in  the  hand.     A  bird  in   the 

hand  is  worth  two  in  the  bush.  Posses- 
sion is  better  than  expectation. 

Jtalinn:  "K  meglio  aver  oggi  un  novo,  che 
dimani  una  gallina." 

French:  "  11  vaut  mieuxavoirl'ceuf  aujourd'hui, 
que  la  poule  domain  "  (Turklsli). 

"  I'u  tien  vaut  mieux  <iue  deux  tu  I'auras." 

"  Un  sou,  i|uand  il  est  assure,  vaut  mieux  que 
cinq  en  esperance." 

German  :  "  Kin  vogel  in  der  hand  ist  besser  als 
zehen  Uber  land." 


Bird  in  thy  Bosom 


137 


Bishop 


"  Besser  ein  spatz  in  tier  hand,  als  ein  storch  auf 
deni  daclie." 

Latin :  "  Ego  sjieni  pretio  nun  eniam." 

English :  "  A  pijuud  in  the  purse  is  worth  two 
in  the  l)ook." 

On  the  other  side  we  have  :  "  Qui  ne  s'a venture, 
n'a  ni  cheval  ni  mule."  "  Xothing  venture,  uo- 
thinst  have."  "  Give  a  sprat  to  catch  a  nuckerel." 
'■  Chi'nou  s'arrischia,  uou  guadagna." 

Bird  in  thy  Bosom.  Thou  hast 
lept  well  the  bird  in  tity  bosom.  Thou 
liast  remained  faithful  to  thy  allegiance 
or  faith.  The  expression  was  used  by 
Sii'  Ralph  Percy  (slain  in  the  battle  of 
Hedgly  Moor  in  1461)  to  express  his 
having  preserved  unstained  his  fidelity 
to  the  House  of  Lancaster. 

Bird  of  Este.  The  white  eagle,  the 
cognisance  of  the  house. 

"  His  dazzling  wa.v 
The  bird  of  Este  soars  lieyond  the  solar  ray." 
Tastso  :    Jerusalem  Delivered,  x. 

Birds.  Birds  of  a  feather  flock 
together.  Persons  associate  with  those 
of  a  suuilar  taste  and  station  as  them- 
selves. Qui  se  ressemble  s\<sseiiible. 
Cicero  says,  "  Similes  similibiis  gaudent, 
parescum  paribus  facilUmecongregantur.''^ 
"  Xe  nous  associons  qu''avec  nos  igaux  " 
{La  Fontaine). 

To  kill  two  birds  with  one  stone.  To 
effect  two  objects  with  one  outlay  of 
trouble. 

Birds  Qjrotected  by  superstitions) . 

Choughs  are  protected  in  Cornwall, 
because  the  soul  of  King  Aiihur  mi- 
grated into  a  chough. 

The  Hatch  is  held  sacred  by  the 
Egj^tians,  because  it  is  the  form  as- 
sumed by  Ra  or  Horns. 

The  Ibis  is  sacred  in  Egypt,  and  to 
kill  one  was  at  one  time  a  capital  offence. 
It  LS  said  that  the  god  Thoth  escaped 
(as  an  Ibis)  from  the  piu'suit  of  Typhou. 

Mother  Careifs  Chickens,  or  Storm 
Petrels  are  protected  by  sailors,  from  a 
superstition  that  they  are  the  living 
forms  of  the  souls  of  deceased  sailors. 

TIte  Robin  is  protected,  both  from 
Cliristian  tradition  and  nursery  legend. 
{See  Robin  Redbeeast.) 

The  Stork  is  a  sacred  bird  in  Sweden, 
from  the  legend  that  it  flew  round  the 
cross,  crying  Sti/rka,  Styrka,  when 
Jesus  was  crucified.     {See  Stoek.) 

Sicuns  are  suj)erstitiously  protected  in 
Ireland  from  the  legend  of  the  Fion- 
niiala  (daughter  of  Lir),  who  was 
metamorphosed  into  a  swan  and  con- 
demned to  wander  in  lakes  and  rivers 
till  Clu'istiauity  was  introduced.  (See 
Irish  Melodies,  Silent  WMoyle.) 

•."  The  bat  (a  winged  animal)  was  regarded  b.v 
the  Caribs  as  a  good  angel,  which  protected  their 


dwellings  at  night  ;  and  it  was  accounted  sacri- 
legious to  kill  one. 

Bird's-eye  View.  A  mode  of  per- 
spective drawing  in  wliich  the  artist  is 
supposed  to  be  ocer  the  objects  deline- 
ated, iu  which  case  he  beliolds  them  as 
a  htrd  in  the  air  would  see  them.  A 
general  view. 

Birdcage  Walk  (St.  James's  Park, 
London)  ;  so  called  from  an  aviary. 

Birmingham  Poet.  John  Freeth, 
who  died  at  the  age  of  seventy-eight  in 
1808.  He  was  wit,  poet,  and  imblican, 
who  not  only  wrote  the  words  and  tunes 
of  song.s,  but  sang  them  also,  and  sang 
tliem  well. 

Birthday  Suit.  He  teas  in  his  birth- 
day suit.  Quite  nude,  as  when  first 
bom. 

Bis.  Bis  dat,  r/ui  cito  dat  (he  gives 
twice  who  gives  promptly) — i.e.  prompt 
relief  will  do  as  much  good  as  twice  the 
suTu  at  a  futui'e  period  {Fublius  Syrns 
I'rorerbs.) 

I'urple  and  bis,  i.e.  purple  and  fine 
linen  (Latin,  byssus,  fine  flax).  The 
spelling  is  sometimes  biss,  bys,  etc. 

Biscuit  (French-Latin,  bis,  twice ; 
euit,  baked).  So  called  because  it  was 
originally  twice  evened.  The  Romans 
had  a  bread  of  this  kind. 

In  pottery,  earthenware  or  porcelain, 
after  it  has  been  hardened  in  tlie  fire,  but 
has  not  yet  been  glazed,  is  so  called. 

Bise.  A  wind  that  acts  notabh'  on 
the  nervous  system.  It  is  prevalent  iu 
those  vaUeys  of  Savoy  that  open  to  the 
north. 

"The  B:se  lilew  cold." 
Jiogirs:  Italy,  part  1.  div.  ii.  stanza  -1. 

Bishop    {Evequc),   the    same    word, 

episcopus ;  whence   episc,  cvese,  cvcsrjue, 
eceque ;  also  ^piscop,  bishop. 

Bishop,  Cardinal,  Pope  (as  bever- 
ages) : 

Bishop  is  made  by  pouring  red  wine 
(such  as  claret  or  burgundj'),  either  hot 
or  cold,  on  ripe  bitter  oranges.  The 
liquor  is  then  sugared  and  spiced  to 
taste.  In  Germany,  "bishop"  is  a 
mixture  of  wine,  sugar,  nutmeg,  and 
orange  or  lemon.  It  is  sometimes  called 
"Piuple  Wine,"  and  has  received  its 
name  of  bishop  i'rom  its  colour. 

Cardinal  is  made  by  using  uhiie  vrine 
instead  of  red. 

Pojje  is  made  by  using  tokay. 

"  When  T  was  at  coUei-'e,  Cup  was  spiced  audit 
ale;  liisliop  was  "rup  '  with  wine  (properl.v 
claret  or  burgundy)  added  ;  Cardinal  was  "  cup" 
with  brandy  added.  All  were  served  with  a 
Uedge-hog  [i.e.  a  whole  lemon  or  orange  bristling 


Bishop   Barnaby 


138 


Bites  and  Bams 


with  cloves]  floatiuf;  in  the  midst.  Each  Ruest 
had  his  own  glass  or  cup  HUed  by  a  ladle  from  the 
common  bowl  (.a  large  silver  one)." 

The  bishop  hath,  put  his  foot  in  if. 
Said  of  milk  or  porridge  that  is  burnt,  or 
of  meat  over-roasted.  Tvndale  says, 
"  If  the  podech  be  burued-to,  or  the 
meate  ouer  rosted,  we  saye  the  byshope 
hath  put  l)is  fote  in  the  potte,"  aud  ex- 
plains it  thus,  "because  the  bishopes 
burn  who  they  lust."  Such  food  is  also 
said  to  be  hinliupjjcd. 

Bishop  Barnaby.  The  May-bug, 
lady-bird,  etc. 

Bishop  in  Partibus.     {Sec  In  Pae- 

TUiUS.) 

Bishop  of  Hippo.  St.  Augustine 
(3')4-loO)  is  ofteu  so  referred  to.  He 
held  the  Sec  for  mauj^  years. 

Bishop's  Apron  represents  the  short 
cassock  which,  by  the  74th  canon,  all 
clergy  men  were  enjoined  to  wear. 

Bishop's  Bible  (Tht).  (See  imder 
LiBLK,  page  I'-'A,  ciil.  2.) 

Bishop's  Mitre.  Dean  Stanley  tells 
us  tliat  the  cleft  of  a  bishop's  mitre 
represents  the  mark  of  the  crease  of  the 
mitre,  when  folded  and  carried  under 
the  arm,  like  an  opera  hat.     {Christian 

Il/f:fitt(tio/IS,  p.   15-1.) 

Bissextile.  Leap-year.  We  add  a 
day  to  February  in  leap-year,  but  the 
Itomans  counted  the  '24th  of  February 
twice.  Now,  the  24th  of  February  was 
called  by  them  '■'dies  l/isse.rfi/s^'  (se.vto 
cnleiidas  Martins),  the  sextile  or  sixth 
day  before  IMarch  1st;  and  this  day 
being  reckoned  twice  {bis)  in  leap-year, 
was  called  "  aiuu(»  bissextus.*^ 

Bisson  or  Hisen  [blind]  is  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  biseii.  Shakespeare  {Uaiiilet,  ii. 
2)  speaks  of  hissoii  rheum  (blinding 
tears),  and  in  Coriolanus,  ii.  1,  "What 
harni  can  your  bisson  couspectuities 
glean  out  of  tlus  character  ?  " 

Biston'ians.  The  Thracians ;  so 
called  from  Biston,  son  of  Mars,  who 
built  Biston'ia  on  the  Lake  Bis'tonis. 

"  So  the  Bistonian  race,  a  madilenint.'  train, 
Kxnlt  and  revel  on  the  Thracian  plain: 
AVith  milk  their  bloodv  bamiuets  they  allay. 
Or  from  the  linn  rend  his  pantini.'  prey; 
On  soniealjnniloned  savaije  tieroely  fly, 
Seize,  tear,  devour,  and  tliink  it  luxury." 

Pitt:  Stiititts,  Book  ii. 
Bit.    A  iDicce. 

A  bit  of  mi/  luiud,  as  "I'll  tell  him  a 
bit  of  my  mind,"  I'll  reprove  him. 
Same  word  as  bite,  meaning  a  jjiece 
bitten  off,  hence  a  piece  generally. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  bitaii,  to  bite.) 

Jill  tij  bit.  A  little  at  a  tune  :  piece- 
meal. 


I\ut  a  bit,  or  Xut  the  least  bit.  Not  at 
all ;  not  the  least  likely.  This  may  be 
not  a  morsel,  or  not  a  doit,  rap,  or  sou. 
"  Bit "  used  to  be  a  small  Jamaica  coin. 
We  still  talk  of  a  threepeuny-bit.  Bit, 
of  course,  is  the  substantive  of  bite,  as 
■morsel  (French  mor^eau)  of  mordrc. 

Bit  {of  a  horse).  To  take  the  bit  in  (or 
between)  his  teeth.  To  be  obstinately 
self-willed  :  to  make  ui>  one's  mind  not 
to  yield.  When  a  horse  has  a  mind  to 
run  away,  he  catches  the  bit  "between 
his  teeth,"  and  the  driver  has  no  longer 
control  over  him. 

'■.Mr.  X.  will  not  yield.  He  has  taken  the  bit 
between  bis  teeth,  aud  is  resolved  to  carry  out 
his  original  measure."— yeicspiiper  paragraph, 
April,  ISSG. 

Bit.  Money.  The  word  is  used  in 
the  West  Indies  for  a  half  jiistareen 
(fivepeucc) .  In  Jamaica,  a  bit  is  worth 
sixjience,  English  ;  in  America,  l'2h 
cents ;  iu  Ireland,  teniience. 

The  word  is  still  thieves'  slang  for 
money  generally,  and  coiners  are  called 
bit-makers. 

V  In  English  we  use  the  word  for  ;i 
coin  which  is  a  fraction  of  a  vmit.  Thus, 
a  shilling  being  a  unit,  wo  have  a  six- 
penu}-  bit  and  threepenny  bit  (or  not  iu 
bits  but  in  divers  pieces).  So,  taking  a 
sovereign  for  a  unit,  we  had  seveu-sliil- 
ling  bits,  etc. 

Bite.  A  cheat ;  one  who  bit^s  u.s. 
"The  biter  bit"  explains  tlie  origin. 
We  saj'  "a  man  was  bitten"  when  he 
"  bums  his  fingers  "  meddling  with 
something  which  promised  well  but 
turned  out  a  failure. 

2'o  bite  the  dust,  as  "Their  enemies 
shall  bite  the  dust,"  i.e.  be  slain  in 
battle. 

Bite.  Tu  bite  oue''s  Ihuiub  at  another. 
To  insult ;  to  provoke  to  a  quarrel. 

"  Greaorii.  I  will  frown  as  I  pass  by:  aud  let 
them  take  it  as  they  list. 

"^V(mp^■o».  Xay,  as  they  d;ire.  I  will  bite  my 
thumb  at  tbeni  :  which  is  a  disgrace  to  them,  if 
they  bear  it."— .'^hakespctirc :  Uumeo  and  Juliet,  i.  1., 

To  bite  the  Up.  indicative  of  suppressed 
chagrin,  passion,  or  annoyance. 

'■  She  had  to  bite  her  lips  till  the  bloml  came  in 
order  to  keep  down  the  angry  words  that  would 
rise  in  her  heart." — ilfis.  Ouslcell:  Mary  Barton, 
chap.  xi. 

To  bite  upon  the  bridle.  To  champ  the 
bit,  like  an  imijatient  or  restless  hor.se. 

Bit'elas.  Sister  of  Fairlimb,  and 
daughter  of  Eukeuaw,  the  ape,  in  tlio 
story  of  Eei/nard  the  Fox.     {A/kinar.) 

Bites  and  Bams.  Hoaxes  and 
quizzes ;  huml)ugerj'. 

"  [Ili.-l  huujble  elforts  at  jocularity  were  chiefly 
conlined  to  .  .  .  bites  aud  bams."— i'l'r  W.  Scott: 
Gnu  ilaniieritnj,  chap.  3. 


Biting  Remark 


W.) 


Black  Acts 


Biting  Remark  (A).  A  remark 
more  liit'uK/  thini  Z('iii)'s.  Near'chos 
ordered  Zeiio  the  j'l'ilosoplier  to  be 
pouuded  to  death  in  a  mortar.  AVhen 
he  had  been  pouuded  some  time,  he  tokl 
Nearchos  lie  had  an  important  secret  to 
communicate  to  him ;  but,  when  the 
tyrant  bent  over  the  mortar  to  hear 
what  Zeno  had  to  say,  the  dying  man 
bit  off  his  ear. 

■'  That  would  liave  been  a  l)iting  jest." 

Shakcspeitrc:  Richard  HI.,  act  ii.  4. 

Bitt.  To  bitt  the  cable  is  to  fasten  it 
round  tlie  "  bitt "  or  frame  made  for  the 
purpose,  and  placed  in  the  fore  part  of 
the  vessel. 

Bitten.  Imposed  upon,  let  in,  made 
to  suffer  loss.  "  I  was  terribly  bitten  in 
that  affair."  I  suffered  great  loss.  To 
bite  is  to  cheat  or  suffer  retaliation. 
Thus,  Pope  says,  "The  rogue  was  bit," 
he  intended  to  cheat,  but  was  liimself 
t.iken  in.  "  The  biter  bit  "  is  the  moral 
of  .E:s()p'sfa1)le  called  The  Viper  and  the 
Till' :  and  GoMsmith's  mad  dog,  which, 
"  for  some  private  ends,  went  mad  and 
bit  a  man,"  but  the  biter  wa^  bit,  for 
"  The  man  recovered  of  the  bite,  the 
d(ig  it  was  tluit  died." 

Bitter  End  {The).  A  out  ranee  ;  with 
relentless,  hostility ;  also  ajiplied  to  afflic- 
tion, as,  '•  she  bore  it  to  the  bitter  end," 
meaning  to  the  last  stroke  of  adverse 
fortune.  "All  Thy  waves  have  gone 
over  me,  but  I  have  borne  up  under  them 
to  the  bitter  end."  Hero  "  bitter  end  " 
means  the  end  of  the  rope.  The  "  bitter- 
end"  is  a  sea  term  meaning  "that  part 
of  the  cable  which  is  "  abaft  the  bitts." 
When  there  is  no  windlass  the  cables  are 
fastened  to  bitts,  that  is,  jiieces  of  timber 
so  called  ;  and  when  a  rope  is  payed  out 
to  the  bitter-end,  or  to  these  pieces  of 
timber,  all  of  it  is  let  out,  and  no  more 
remains.  However,  we  read  in  Prov.  v. 
■i,  "Her  end  is  bitter  as  wormwood," 
which,  after  all,  may  be  the  oi-igin  of 
the  phrase. 

Bitter  as  Gall,  as  soot,  as  worm- 
wood. Absinthe  is  made  of  wormwood. 
(iSV^  Similes.) 

Bittock.  A  little  bit ;  -ock  as  a 
diminutive  is  preserved  in  bull-ock,  hill- 
oi^k,  butt-ock,  etc.  "A  mile  and  a 
bittoek  "  is  a  mile  and  a  little  bit.  {Sir 
Walter  Seoti :  Guij  Maiuiering ,  i.) 

Biz,  in  theatrical  slang,  moans  "busi- 
ness." Good  biz  means  full  houses  ;  but 
an  actor's  "  biz"  is  quite  another  thing, 
meaning  by-play.  Thus,  Hamlet  trifluig 
with  Ophelia's  fan,  Lord  Dundreary's 


hop,  and  so  on,  arc  the  special  "busi- 
ness" of  tlie  actor  of  the  part.  As  a 
rule,  the  "business"  is  invented  hy  the 
actor  who  creates  the  part,  and  is 
handed  down  by  tradition. 

Black  for  mourning  was  a  Roman 
custom  {Jiiveital,  x.  215)  borrowed  from 
the  Egyjitians. 

Black,  in  blazonry,  means  constancy, 
wisdom,  and  jDrudence. 

Black,  in  several  of  the  Oriental 
nations,  is  a  badge  of  servitude,  slavery, 
and  low  birth.  Oiu-  word  blach(jiinrd 
seems  to  point  to  this  meaning.  The 
Latin  nUjcr  meant  bud,  uuprointioun. 
{Sec  Blackguard.) 

Black.      {See  under  Colouks  for  its 

symbolisms,  etc.). 

Black  as  a  Crow  (or  a^  a  rarni) ; 

"as  a  raven's  wing;"  as  ink;  as  hell, 
i.e.  hades  (2  syl.),  meaning  death  or  tho 
grave  ;  as  your  hat,  etc.     {See  Similes.) 

Black  as  a  Newgate  Knocker.    A 

Newgate  knocker  is  the  fringe  or  lock  of 
hair  which  costermongers  and  thieves 
twist  back  towards  the  ear. 

Black  in  the  Face.  Extremely 
angry.  The  face  discoloured  with  passion 
or  distress. 

"Mv.  Winkle  pulled  .  .  .  till  he  was  black  in  I  ho 
fare." — Dicheim :  I'icl'wick  I'uper.i. 

"  He  swciro  liiuiself  black  in  the  face."— /V/cc 
rinclarOyolcutt: 

Black  is  White.     {See  Sweab.) 

Beaten  black  and  blue.  So  that  the 
skin  is  black  and  blue  with  the  marks  of 
the  beating. 

T  must  hare  it  in  black  and  ichite,  i.e. 
in  phiin  writing  ;  the  i)aper  being  white 
and  the  ink  black. 

'J'o  ain/  black'' s  his  eye,  i.e.  to  vituper- 
ate, to  blame.  The  expression,  Black's 
the  white  of  his  ei/e,  is  a  modern  corrup- 
tion. To  say  the  eye  is  black  or  evil, 
is  to  accuse  a  jierson  of  an  evil  heart  or 
great  ignorance.  The  Latin  }iif/er  also 
meant  evil.     (See  Black  Prince.) 

"A  fool  niav  do  nil  lliiir,'-;,  and  no  man  pay 
blach'.^  hi.i  C!/c."—Tlic  Ti  U  Tale. 

Black  Act.  9  Geo.  I.  c.  22  is  so 
called,  ])Ocatisn  it  was  directed  against 
tlie  Waltham  deer-stealers,  who  black- 
ened therr  faces  for  disguise,  and,  imder 
the  name  of  Blcccks,  appeared  in  Epping 
Forest.      This  Act  was  repealed  in  1827. 

Black  Acts.  Acts  of  the  Scottish 
Parliament  between  the  ain-ession  of 
James  I.  and  the  year  l.')S7:  so  called 
because  they  were  printed  in  black 
characters. 


Black   Art 


140 


Blackfoot 


Black  Art.  Tlie  art  practised  by 
conjurors,  wizards,  and  others,  who  pro- 
fessed to  have  dealings  with  the  devil. 
Black  here  means  diabolical  or  wicked. 
Some  derive  it  from  nir/romanctj,  a  cor- 
ruption of  necromancy. 

Black  Assize.  July  Gth,  1.577,  when 
a  putrid  pestilence  broke  out  at  Oxford 
during  the  time  of  assize. 

Black-balled.      Not  admitted  to  a 

club  ;  the  candidate  ju'oposed  is  not  ac- 
cepted as  a  member.  In  voting  by  bal- 
lot, those  who  accept  the  person  proposed 
drop  a  white  or  red  ball  into  the  box,  but 
those  who  would  exclude  the  candidate 
drop  into  it  a  black  one.  It  is  now 
more  usually  done  \>y  two  compartments, 
for  "  yes  "  and  "  no  "  respectively. 

Black  Book.  A  book  exposing 
abuses  iu  Church  and  State,  which  fur- 
nished much  material  for  political  reform 
in  the  early  part  of  the  present  century. 
{Src  Black  Books.) 

V  Amherst  speaks  of  the  Proctor's 
black  book,  and  tells  us  that  no  one  can 
proceed  to  a  degree  whose  name  is  found 
there.  (172(5.)  It  also  appears  that 
each  regiment  keeps  a  black  book  or 
record  of  ill-behaviour. 

Black  Book  of  the  Adiinralty.  An  old 
navy  code,  said  to  have  been  compiled 
iu  tiie  reign  of  Edward  III. 

Black  Books.  To  he  in  nnj  black 
hooks.  In  bad  odour ;  iu  disgrace  ;  out 
of  favour.  The  black  books  were  those 
compiled  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  to 
set  forth  the  scandalous  i)roceedings  of 
the  English  monasteries,  and  were  so 
called  from  the  colour  of  their  binding. 
We  have  similarly  the  Blue  Book,  the 
Red  Book,  and  so  on. 

Black  Books  of  the  Exchequer.  An 
official  account  of  the  royal  revenues, 
payments,  jjerquisites,  etc.,  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  II.  Its  cover  was  black 
leather.  There  are  two  of  them  pre- 
served iu  the  Public  Record  Office. 

Black  Brunswickers.  A  corps  of 
700  volunteer  hussars  under  the  com- 
mand of  Frederick  William,  Duke  of 
Brunswick,  who  had  been  forbidden  by 
Napoleon  to  succeed  to  his  father's 
dukedom.  They  were  called  "Black" 
because  they  wore  mourning  for  the 
deceased  Duke.  Frederick  William  fell 
at  Quatre-Bras,  1815.  One  of  Millais's 
best  pictures  is  called  "The  Black 
Brunswicker." 

Black  Cap,  or  the  Jachjwcnt  Cap, 
worn    by    a    judge    when    he    jiasscs 


sentence  of  death  on  a  prisoner.  This 
cap  is  part  of  the  judge's  full  dress.  The 
judges  wear  their  black  caps  on  Novem- 
ber 9th,  when  the  Lord  Mayor  is  pre- 
sented in  the  Court  of  Exchequer. 
Covermg  the  head  was  a  sign  of  mourn- 
ing among  the  Israelites,  Greeks, 
Romans,  and  Anglo-Saxons.  (2  Sam. 
XV.  30.) 

Black  Cattle.  Oxen  for  slaughter ; 
so  called  because  black  is  their  prevailing 
colour,  at  least  in  the  north. 

Black  Cattle.    Negro  slaves. 

"  She  was  chartered  for  the  "West  Coast  of 
Africa  to  trade  with  the  natives,  but  not  iu  black 
cattle,  for  slavery  was  never  our  lineuf  business." 
—J.  Grant:  Dick  Rodney,  chap.  xi. 

Black  Death.  A  putrid  typhus, 
in  which  the  body  turned  black  with 
rapid  j^utref action.  It  occurred  in  1348, 
and  carried  oft'  twenty-tive  millions  in 
Europe  alone,  wliile  in  Asia  and  Africa 
the  mortality  was  even  greater. 

Black  Diamonds.  Coals ;  also  clever 
fellows  of  the  lower  orders.  Coals  and 
diamonds  are  both  carbon. 

Black  Dog.  A  fiend  still  dreaded  in 
many  country  places.     {See  DoG.) 

Black  I>o(j.  Base  silver  coin  in  the 
reign  of  Anne.  Made  of  pewter  double 
washed. 

Black  Doll  {A).  The  sign  of  a 
marine  store  shop.  The  doll  was  a 
dummy  dressed  to  indicate  that  cast-off 
garments  were  bought. 

Black  Douglas.  William  Douglas, 
Lord  of  Nithsdale.     Died  1390. 

Black  Flag  (./)  denotes  a  pirate, 
and  is  called  the  "  Jolly  Roger." 

Black  Flags.  Moslem  soldiers.  The 
banner  of  the  Abbasides  (3  syl.)  is  black  ; 
that  of  the  Fatimites  (3  syl.)  green  ;  and 
that  of  the  Ommiades  (3  syl.)  white. 
Hence  the  banner  of  the  Kalif  of  Bag- 
dad is  black,  but  that  of  the  Sultan  of 
Damascus  is  green.     {Gibbon,  cliap.  iii.) 

Black  Flags.  Pirates  of  the  Chinese 
Sea  who  opposed  the  French  iu  Tonquin, 
etc. 

Black-foot.  There  is  a  powerful  and 
numerous  tribe  of  North  American 
Indians  called  Black-feet.  A  black-foot 
is  an  intermediary  in  love  affairs;  but  if 
perfidious  to  the  wooer  he  was  called  a 
white-foot. 

Blackfoot  {The).  One  of  the  mnny 
Irish  factious  which  disturbed  the  jieace 


Black  Friars 


141 


Black  Mail 


iu  the  first  half  of  the  uiueteenth  cen- 
tury. 

'■  And  tlie  Bhickfuot,  who  courted  each  foeniau's 
aiiimiacli, 
Faith  !  'tis  Imt-font  lupendily]  lie'd  fly  from  the 
stout  Fathei-  Roach."  Luver. 

Black  Friars.  The  Domiiiicaus  were 
formerly  so  called  iu  Englaud. 

Black  Friday.  December  Gth,  1 745, 
the  day  ou  whicli  the  news  arrived  iu 
Lnudou  that  the  Pretender  had  reached 
Derby. 

Black  Game.  Heath-fowl;  in  contra- 
distinction to  red  game,  as  grouse.  The 
male  bird  is  called  a  blackcock. 

Black  Genevan  (A).  A  black 
preaching  gowu ;  ouce  used  iu  some 
Anglican  churches,  and  still  used  by 
some  Dissenters  iu  the  pulpit.  So  called 
from  Geneva,  where  Calvin  preached  iu 
such  a  robe. 

"  The  Nonconformist  divine  leaves  his  vestry  in 
liis  Idack  Genevan,  toadied  l)y  his  deacons  and 
eUlers."—Xeicspaper paragraph,  July  18tli,  I»»j  (on 
Sunday  bands). 

Black-guards.  Those  horse-boys 
and  unmilitary  folk,  such  as  cooks  with 
their  pots,  pans,  and  other  kitchen 
utensils,  which  travel  with  an  army,  and 
greatly  impede  its  march. 

Gift'ord,  in  his  edition  of  Ben  Jonson, 
says  :  "In  all  great  houses  there  were  a 
number  of  dirty  dependents,  whose  olRce 
it  was  to  attend  the  wool-yards,  scul- 
leries, etc.  Of  these  the  most  forlorn 
were  selected  to  carry  coals  to  the  kit- 
chen. They  rode  with  the  pots  and 
pans,  and  were  iu  derision  called  the 
black-guards." 

In  the  Lord  Steward's  office  a  pro- 
clamation (May  7th,  1683)  begins  thus: 
' '  Whereas  ...  a  sort  of  vicious,  idle, 
and  masterless  boyes  and  rogues,  com- 
monly called  the  Black-guard,  with 
divers  other  lewd  and  loose  follows  .  .  . 
do  usually  haunt  and  follow  the  court. 
.  .  .  Wee  do  hereby  strictly  charge  .  .  . 
all  those  so  called,  .  .  .  with  all  other 
loose,  idle  .  .  .  men  .  .  .  who  have  in- 
truded themselves  into  his  Majesty's 
court  and  stables  ...  to  dejiart  uj)ou 
pain  of  imprisonment." 

Black  Hole  of  Calcutta.  A  dark 
cell  iu  a  prison  into  which  Suraja  Dow- 
lah  thrust  146  British  prisoners.  Next 
morning  only  twenty-three  were  found 
alive  (17-56). 

'.*  The  punishment  cell  or  lock-up  in 
barracks. 

Black  Horse.  The  7th  Dragoon 
Guards,  or  "the Princess  Royal's  D.  G." 


Their  "  facings  "  are  black.     Also  called 

"  Strawboots,"  "  The  Blacks." 

Black  Jack.  Black  Jack  ridca  a  good 
horse  (Cornish).  The  miners  call  blende 
or  sulphide  of  zinc  "Black  Jack,"  the 
occurrence  of  which  is  considered  by 
them  a  favourable  indication.  The 
bleude  rides  upou  a  lode  of  good  ore. 

Black  Jack  {A).  A  large  leather 
(jotcli  for  beer  and  ale,  so  called  from  the 
outside  being  tarred. 

Black  Joke.  An  old  tune,  now 
called  2'he  Sprig  of  ShlUclagh.  Tom 
Moore  has  adapted  words  to  the  tune, 
beginning,  "  Sublime  was  the  warning 
which  Liberty  spoke." 

Black  Leg.  A  swindler,  especially 
iu  cards  and  races.  Also,  one  who 
works  for  less  than  trade -union  wages  ; 
a  non-union  workman. 

"  Pledging  the  strikers  not  to  return  to  work  so 
lon.i;  as  a  siucle  Black-lei;  was  retained  in  the 
ser\icc."— .Vi(iei(f(iWt  Centuri/,  February,  1»U1,  p. 
L'4:i. 

Black  Letter.  The  Gothic  or  Ger- 
man type.  So  called  because  of  its  black 
appearance.  The  initial  items  of  this 
book  are  now  called  "black  letter," 
sometimes  called  "  Clarendon  tj-pe." 

Black  Letter  Day.  An  luilucky 
da  J' ;  one  to  be  recalled  with  regret. 
The  Romans  marked  their  unlucky 
days  with  a  piece  of  black  cliarcoal,  and 
their  lucky  ones  with  white  chalk. 

Black-letter  dogs.  Literary  antiquaries 
who  jDoke  and  pry  into  every  hole  and 
corner  to  find  out  black-letter  copies  of 
books. 

"  By  fell  Mack-letter'dogs  .  .  . 
That  from  fiotbic  kennels  eager  strut." 

Matthias  :  Pursuits  of  Literal  ire. 

Black  Lists.  Lists  of  insolvency 
and  bankrujitc}'',  for  the  private  guidance 
of  the  mercantile  community.  {See  Black 
Books.) 

Black  Looks.  Looks  of  displeasure. 
To  look  black.  To  look  displeased.  The 
figure  is  from  black  clouds  indicative  of 
fold  weather. 

Black  Mail.  Moncj'  given  to  free- 
booters by  way  of  exempting  property 
from  depredation.  (Anglo-Saxon,  uial, 
"  rent-tax  ;  "  French,  ma  tile,  an  old  coin 
worth-0S3  farthing).  Grass  mailvm?.  rent 
paid  for  pasturage.  Math  and  datics 
(Scotch)  are  rents  of  an  estate  iu  money 
or  otherwise.  "Black"  in  this  jjhrase 
does  not  mean  wicked  or  wrongful,  but 
is  the  Gaelic,  to  cherish  or  pi-otect. 
Black  mail  was  a  rent  paid  to  Free  Com- 
panies for  protecting  the  property  ^aid 


Black  Man 


U'2 


Black  Sheep 


for,  from  the  depredations  of  freebooters, 
etc. 

T(j  lei'ii  hidck  mall  now  means  to  exact 
exorbitant  cliarges ;  thus  the  cabs  and 
omnibuses  during  the  Great  Exhibition 
3'uars  "  levied  black  mail  "  on  the  public. 

Black  Man  {The).  Tlie  Evil  One. 

Black  Maria.  The  black  van.wliicli 
conveys  prisoners  from  the  police  courts 
to  jaiL  Tlie  French  call  a  mud-barge  a 
"  Marie -salope."  The  ti-adition  is  that 
the  van  referred  to  was  so  called  from 
Maria  Lee,  a  negress,  who  ke2:)t  a  sailors' 
boarding  house  in  Boston.  She  was  a 
woman  of  such  gr-eat  size  and  strength 
that  the  unruly  stood  in  dread  of  her, 
and  when  constables  required  helj),  it 
was  a  common  thing  to  send  for  Black 
Maria,  who  soon  collared  the  refractory 
and  led  them  to  the  lock-up.  So  a 
prison-van  was  called  a  "Black  Maria." 

Black  Monday.  Easter  Monday, 
AiJril  Uth,  loGO,  was  so  called.  Edward 
III.  was  with  his  army  lying  before 
Paris,  and  the  day  was  so  dark,  Avith 
mist  and  liail,  so  bitterly  cold  and  so 
windy,  that  many  of  his  horses  and 
men  died.  Monday  after  Easter  holi- 
days is  called  "Black  Monday,"  in 
allusion  to  this  fatal  day.  Launcelot 
says : 

"  rt  was  not  for  nolliing  tliat  my  nose  fell  a- 
bleeilinB  on  Black  Monday  last,  at  six  o'clock  i' 
the  raoniing."— ,S7i«/res;'care ;  Merchant  of  Yetiice, 
ii.  5. 

February  27th,  I860,  was  so  called  in 
Melbourne  from  a  terrible  sirocco  from 
the  N.N.W.,  which  produced  dreadful 
havoc  between  Sandhurst  and  Castle- 
maine. 

Black  Mondat/.  In  schoolboy  phrase- 
ology is  the  first  Monday  after  the 
holidays  are  over,  when  lessons  begin 
again. 

Black  Money.  Base  coin  brought 
to  England  by  foreigners,  and  prohibited 
by  Edward  III. 

Black  Ox.  Tlie  hJacJc  ox  has  trod  on 
his  foot — i.e.  misfortune  has  come  to 
him.  Black  oxen  were  sacrificed  to 
Pluto  and  other  infernal  deities. 

Black  Parliament.  The  Parlia- 
ment held  by  Henry  VIII.  in  Bridewell. 

Black  Prince.  Edward,  Prince  of 
Wales,  son  of  Edward  III.  Froissart 
says  lie  was  ' '  styled  black  by  terror  of 
his  arms"  (c.  1C9).  Strutt  confirms  this 
saying :  "  for  his  martial  deeds  sur- 
named  Black  the  Prince  "  {Antiquities). 
Meyrick  says  there  is  not  the  slightest 
proof  that  Edward,  Prince  of  Wales, 


ever  wore  black  aiTaour  (vol.  ii. ) ;  indeed, 
we  have  much  indirect  proof  against  the 
supi^osition.  Thus  Shaw  (vol.  i.  plate 
;il)  gives  a  facsimile  from  a  picture  on 
the  wall  of  St.  Stephen's  Chapel,  West- 
minster, in  which  the  prince  is  clad  in 
(jilt  armour.  Stothard  says  "the  eflfigy 
is  of  copper  gilt."  In  the  British 
Museum  is  an  'llumination  of  Edward 
III.  granting  to  his  sou  the  duchy  of 
Aquitaiue,  in  which  both  figures  are 
represented  in  silver  armour  with  gilt 
joints.  The  first  mention  of  the  term 
''  Black  Prince  "  occurs  in  a  jiarliament- 
ary  paper  of  the  second  year  of  Kiciiard 
II.;  so  that  Shakespeare  has  good  reason 
for  tlie  iise  of  the  word  in  his  tragedy  of 
that  king : — 

"  Brave  Gannt,  tby  father  ami  myself 
Rescued  the  Black  Prince,  that  youu^j  Mars  of 

men, 
From  forth  the  ranks  of  many  thousand  French." 
liichaid  I[.,n.'S. 
"  That   black  name,  Edward,  black  Prince  of 
Wales."— i/c/f  17/  y.  ii.  1. 

Black  Republicans.  The  Repub- 
licans were  so  called  by  the  pro-slavery 
party  of  the  States,  because  they  resisted 
the  introduction  of  slavery  into  any 
State  where  it  was  not  alreadj''  recog- 
nised. 

Black  Rod,  i.r.  "  Gentleman  Usher 
of  the  Black  Rod,"  so  called  from  his 
staff  of  office — a  black  wand  surmounted 
by  a  lion. 

Black    Rood    of    Scotland.      The 

"piece  of  tlie  true  cross  "  or  rood,  .sot  in 
an  cboiii/  crucifix,  which  Margaret,  the 
wife  of  King  Malcolm,  left  at  death  to 
the  Scottish  nation.  It  passed  into  vari- 
ous hands,  but  was  lost  at  the  Reform- 
ation. 

Black  Russia.  Central  and  Southern 
Russia  is  so  called  from  its  black  soil. 

"The  winter  crops  in  the  %vhole  of  European 
Russia  are  very  good,  especially  in  the  black- 
earth  regions.  In  the  government  of  Northern 
Russia  tlie  comlitinn  is  less  favourable."— ^Vics- 
paim-  jnnitijiniili,  December,  lsii3. 

Black  Saturday.  August  4th,  1621; 
so  called  in  Scotland,  because  a  violent 
storm  occurred  at  the  very  moment  the 
Parliament  was  sitting  to  enforce  episco- 
pacy on  the  people. 

Black  Sea.  So  called  from  the 
abounding  black  rock  in  the  extensive 
coal-fields  between  the  Bos'iihorus  and 
Heracle'a. 

Black  Sheep  [Kdrd-Koiii-ho].  A 
tribe  of  Turkomans,  so  called  from  their 
standards.  This  tribe  was  extirpated  by 
the  IJ  hitc  Sheep  {q.r.). 

A  Black  Sheep.     A  disgrace  to  the 


Black   Standard 


U3 


Blank  Cartridge 


family  ;  a  niaurais  siijet ;  a  workman  who 
will  not  join  iu  a  strike.  Black  sheep 
are  looked  on  with  dislike  by  shepherds, 
and  are  not  so  valuable  as  white  ones. 

Black  Standard.  Tlic  dross,  tur- 
bans, and  standards  of  the  Abbasside 
caliphs  were  all  black.     {Jj'Hcrbvlot.) 

Black  Strap.  Bad  port  wine.  A 
sailor's  name  for  any  bad  liquor.  In 
North  America,  "  Black-strajj "  is  a 
mixture  of  rum  and  molasses,  sometimes 
vinegar  is  added. 

■  The  spetliin?  libukstraii  was  pronouncpd  ready 
fill-  use.'— /'ii(/.(-rtoH  ;  ilolUi  ifoa'iifes,  chap.  xvii. 
1>.  171. 

Black  Swan.     {Src  Eara  Avis.) 

Black-thorn  Winter  {The).  The 
cold  weather  which  frequently  occurs 
when  the  black-thorn  is  iu  blossom. 
{See  Borrowed  Days.) 

Black  Thursday.  February  6th, 
18.)1 ;  so  called  iu  the  colony  of  Vic- 
toria, from  a  terrible  bush-tire  which 
then  occurred. 

Black  Tom.  The  Earl  of  Ormonde, 
Lord  Deputy  of  Ireland  in  the  reign  of 
Elizabeth  ;  so  called  from  his  ungracious 
ways  and  "  black  looks." 

"  He  beiug  very  stately  in  apparel,  ami  erect  in 
p  irt,  despite  his  great  age,  yet  with  a  (l;irk,  dour, 
and  menacing  look  upon  his  face,  so  that  all  who 
met  his  gaze  seemed  to  quake  before  the  same." 
—Hull.  EinHij  Lawless:  }','Uli  Essex  iu  Irehind,  p.  loj. 

Black  Watch.  Companies  employed 
to  watch  the  Islands  of  Scotland.  They 
dressed  in  a  "black"  or  dark  tartan- 
(17'2.5).  Subsequently  they  were  en- 
rolled into  the  4'2nd  regiment,  under  the 
Earl  of  Crawford,  in  1737.  Their  tartan 
is  still  called  ' '  The  Black  Watch  Tartan. ' ' 
The  regiment  is  now  called  "The  Royal 
Highlanders." 

Black<  "White.  To  sirear  black  is 
leltite.  To  persist  iu  an  obvious  un- 
truth. The  French  locution,  81  roiis  hii 
dites  l/laiic,  il  repo)idra  iwir,  means, 
He  will  contradict  Avhat  you  say  point 
blank. 

Blacks.  Mutes  at  funerals,  who 
wore  a  black  cloak ;  sometimes  called 
the  Black  Guards. 

"  I  do  pray  ye 
To  give  me  leave  to  live  a  little  longer. 
You  stand  about  me  like  my  Blacks." 
Beaumont  and  Fktcher:  Mons.  Tlioma.t,  iii.  1. 

Blacks  {T/ie),  or  "The  7th  Dragoon 
Gtiards,"  or  "The  Princess  Roj-al's  D. 
Ct."  Called  Hacks  from  their  facings. 
Nicknames : ' ' TheVirginMary's Guard, ' ' 
"  Straw  boots,"  "  Lingoniers,"  etc. 

Blackacre  {TFidoie).  The  best  of 
Wycherley's  comic  characters ;  she  is  a 


masculine,  litigious,  pettifogging,  head- 
strong woman.     {T/ie  Plain  Beciler.) 

Blackamoor.  Washintj  the  hlacku- 
rnuor  ichite — i.e.  engaged  ujiou  a  hope- 
less and  useless  task.  The  allusion  is  to 
one  of  iEsop's  fables  so  entitled. 

Blackness.  All  faces  shall  gather 
hlackjiess  (Joel  ii.  6) — i.e.  be  downcast  iu 
consequence  of  trouble. 

Blacksmith.  The  learned  blacJcsmJlt. 
Elihu  Burritt,  U.S.     (1811-1879.) 

Bladamour.  The  friend  of  Paridel 
in  Spenser's  Faerie  Queciie.  The  iioot 
had  his  eye  upon  the  Earl  of  Northimi- 
berland,  one  of  the  leaders  in  the  northern 
insurrection  of  1569.     {See  Par'idel.) 

Blade.  A  knou-inri  blade,  a  sharp 
fellow ;  a  regular  blade,  a  buck  or  fop. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  blad  or  hkcd,  a  branch  or 
sprig.) 

V  i//ff(f= " branch,"  whence  "fruit, 
prosperity,  glory,"  etc.  The  compound, 
Jil(ed-da'g  =  a,  prosperous  day  :  bhed-gifa, 
a  glory-giver,  i.e.  a  king,  a  "  regular 
blade." 

Bladud.  A  mythical  king  of  Eng- 
land, and  father  of  King  Lear.  He 
built  the  city  of  Bath,  and  dedicated  the 
medicinal  springs  to  Minerva.  Bladud 
studied  magic,  and,  attempting  to  fly, 
fell  into  the  temple  of  Apollo  and  was 
dashed  to  pieces.  {Geoffreg  of  Monmouth.) 

"  Inexhaustible  as  Bladud's  v:eU."—Tliacl:eiH!i. 

Blanche'fleur.  The  heroine  of  Boc- 
caccio's prose  romance  called  II  I'doeopo. 
Her  lover,  Flores,  is  Boccaccio  himself, 
and  Blanchefleur  was  a  young  ladj'  pas- 
sionately beloved  by  him,  the  natural 
daughter  of  King  Eobert.  The  story 
of  Blanchefleur  aud  Flores  is  substan- 
tially the  same  as  that  of  Dor'igeu  and 
AureUus  by  Chaucer,  and  that  of  Dianora 
nnd  Ansaldo  iu  the  Deeamcro)t.  {See 
Dianora  and  Doeigen.) 

Blan'diman.  The  faithful  man- 
servant of  fair  Bellisant  {fj.v.),  who 
attended  her  when  she  was  divorced. 
( Valentine  and  Orson.) 

Blaney.  A  wealthy  heir,  ruined  by 
dissipation,  iu  Crabbe's  Borough. 

'•  Misery  and  mirth  are  blended  in  his  face, 
Much  innate  vilenesaand  some  outward  grace:... 
The  serpent's  cunning  aud  the  sinner's  fall." 
Letter  xiv. 

Blank  Cartridge.  Cartridge  with 
powder  only,  that  is,  without  shot, 
bullet,  or  ball.  Used  in  di'ill  and  in 
saluting.     Figuratively,  empty  threats. 


Blank  Cheque 


U4 


Blaze 


Blank  Cheque.  A  cheque  duly 
sigued,  but  without  specifyiujj  any  sum 
of  money  ;  the  amount  to  be  tilled  in  by 
the  payee. 

Blank  Practice.  Shooting  for  prac- 
tice with  blank  cartridges. 

Blank  Verse.  English  verse  with- 
out rhyme. 

Blanket.  The  wrong  side  of  the 
blanket.  A  love-child  is  said  to  come 
of  the  wrong  side  of  the  blanket. 

"  He  grew  up  to  l)e  a  fine  waule  fallow,  like 
moiiy  ane  that  cimies  <i'  tlie  wraiii,'  side  o'  the 
blanket."— ,S'ir  If.  Scutt:  Tlie  Antiquary ,  chaii.  x\iy . 

A  wet  blanket.  A  discouragement,  a 
marplot.  A  person  is  a  wet  blanket  who 
discourages  a  proposed  scheme.  "Treated 
with  a  wet  blanket,"  discouraged.  "A 
wet  blanket  influence,"  etc.  A  wet 
blanket  is  used  to  smother  fire,  or  to 
prevent  one  escaping  from  a  fire  from 
being  burnt. 

Blanketeers.  The  Coxeyites  were 
so  called  in  18'J4.  "General"  Coxey  of 
the  United  States  induced  50,000  persons 
to  undertake  a  700  miles'  march  to  Wash- 
ington, with  blankets  on  their  backs,  to 
terrorise  Congress  into  fimling  work  for 
the  unemployed. 

Previous  to  this,  the  word  had  been 
applied  to  some  5,000  Kadical  operatives 
who  assembled  on  St.  Peter's  Field, 
near  Manchester,  March  10,  1817.  They 
provided  themselves  with  blankets  and 
rugs,  intending  to  march  to  London,  to 
lay  before  the  Prince  Regent  a  petition 
of  grievances.  Only  six  got  as  far  as 
Ashbourne  Bridge,  when  the  expedition 
collapsed. 

"Tlie  Americans  have  no  royal  dnkes.  no  bench 
of  bishops,  no  House  of  Lords,  no  effete  mon- 
archy; but  they  have  Home  Rule,  one  man  one 
vote,  and  Coxey  with  his  blanketeers."— ii6c-;t(/ 
Ileviar,  May  5tli,  1894,  p.  354. 

Blare.  To  cry  with  a  great  noise, 
like  a  child  in  a  tricky  temper;  to 
bellow.  (Latiu,  i^/oro,  to  weep  with 
noise.) 

Blarney.  None  of  your  hlarney.  Soft, 
wheedling  speeches  to  gain  some  end  ; 
sugar-words.  Cormack  Macarthy  held 
the  castle  of  Blarney  in  1602,  and  con- 
cluded an  armistice  with  Carew,  the 
Lord  President,  on  condition  of  sur- 
rendering the  fort  to  the  English  garri- 
son. Day  after  day  his  lordship  looked 
for  the  fulfilment  of  the  terms,  but  re- 
ceived nothing  except  protocols  and  soft 
speeches,  till  he  became  the  laughing- 
stock of  Elizabeth's  ministers,  and  the 
dupe  of  the  Lord  of  Blarney. 


2'u  kiss  the  Blarnei/  Stone.  Whoever 
does  this  shall  be  able  to  persuade  to 
anything.  The  Blarney  Stone  is  tri- 
angular, lowered  from  the  north  angle 
of  the  castle,  about  twenty  feet  from 
the  toji,  and  containing  this  inscription  : 
"  Connac  Mac  Carthy  for  lis  me  fieri 
fecit,  A.D.  144G."    Blarney  is  near  Cork. 

Blas6  (pronounce  blah-zay).  Sur- 
feited with  pleasure.  A  man  blase  is 
one  who  has  had  full  swing  to  all  the 
pleasures  of  life,  and  has  no  longer  any 
api^etite  for  any  of  them.  A  worn  out 
debauchee  (French,  blascr,  to  exhaust 
with  enjoyment). 

Blasphemous  Balfour.  Sir  James 
Balfour,  the  Scottish  judge,  was  so 
called  becaase  of  his  apostasy.  He  died 
1583, 

Blast.  In  full  blast.  In  the  extreme. 
In  America  will  be  lieard  such  a  sentence 
as  this:  "When  she  came  to  the  meet- 
ing in  her  yellow  hat  and  feathers, 
wasn't  she  in  full  blast  V  "  A  metaphor 
from  the  blast  furnace  in  full  operation. 

Blast.  To  strike  by  lightning ;  to 
make  to  wither.  The  "blasted  oak." 
This  is  the  sense  in  which  the  word  is 
used  as  an  exclamation. 

"  If  it  'the  [b'host]  assume  my  noble  father's 
person, 
I'll  cross  it,  though  it  blast  me." 

Shakespeare :  Hamlet,  i.  ]. 

Blatant  Beast  (The).  "A dreadful 
fiend  of  gods  and  men,  ydrad  ;"  type  of 
"  Common  Rumour  "  or  "  Slander." 
He  has  100  tongues  and  a  sting;  with 
his  tongues  he  speaks  things  "most 
shameful,  most  unrighteous,  most  un- 
true ;  "  and  with  his  sting  "  steeps  them 
in  poison."  Sir  Calidore  muzzled  the 
monster,  and  drew  him  with  a  chain  to 
Faerie  Land.  After  a  time  the  beast 
broke  his  chain  and  regained  his  Uberty. 
(Saxon,  blictan,  to  bellow.)  {Spenser: 
Faerie  Qucene,  books  v.  vi.) 

Blayney's  Bloodhounds.    The  old 

89th  Foot ;  so  called  because  of  their 
unerring  certainty,  and  untiring  perse- 
verance in  hunting  down  the  Irish  rebels 
in  1798,  when  the  corps  was  commanded 
by  Lord  Blaney. 

This  regiment  is  now  called  "  the 
Second  Battalion  of  the  Princess  Vic- 
toria's Irish  Fusiliers."  The  ^V*/ bat- 
talion is  the  old  87th  Foot. 

Blaze.  A  white  mark  in  the  forehead 
of  a  horse.  (Icelandic,  blesi,  a  white 
star  on  the  forehead  of  a  horse  ;  GennaUv 
blasz,  pale.) 


Blaze 


145 


Blessing 


*,*  A  star  is  a  sort  of  white  diamond 
in  the  forehead.  A  blaze  is  an  elongated 
star  or  dash  of  white. 

To  blaze  a  path.  To  notch  trees  as  a 
clue.  Trees  so  notched  are  called  in 
America  "  blazed  trees,"  and  the  white 
wood  shown  by  the  notch  is  called  "  a 
blaze."     {See  above.) 

"Guided  by  the  lihized  trees  .  .  .  they  came  to 
the  s\mt."—Gonldhtg :  The  Young  Marocners,  118. 

"Tliey  Imi-ied  liiiii  where  he  lay,  a  blazed  tree 
mark  in,!;  his  last  restiug-place."— .ld«enf«)-C4-  iu 
Ma,-<lio)ialaiid,  p.  158. 

Blaze  (To).  To  blaze  abroad.  To 
noise  abroad  is  the  German  verb  blascu, 
to  blow  or  sound.  Shakespeare  uses  the 
noun  blazon  : 

"  But  this  eternal  blazon  must  not  be 
Tu  ears  of  flesh  and  blood." 

UuiHlcl,\.  5. 

Blazer  {A).  A  boatman's  jacket. 
Properly  and  originally  applied  to  the 
Johniau  crew  (Camb.),  whose  boat 
jackets  are  the  brightest  possible  scarlet. 

"  A  blazer  is  the  red  Haunel  Ijoating  jaclcet  worn 
by  the  Lady  JIargaret.  St.  John's  College,  t'ani- 
bridge,  Boat   ^i\\x\K"— Daily  News,  August  TMul, 

1.88!>. 

Blazon  [Blazonry'].  To  bhizon  is  to 
announce  with  a  trumpet,  hence  the 
Ghost  in  Ilninh't  says,  "  But  this  eternal 
blazon  must  not  be  to  ears  of  flesh  and 
blood,"  i.e.  this  babbling  about  eternal 
things,  or  things  of  the  other  world, 
must  not  be  made  to  persons  still  in  the 
flesh.  Knights  were  wont  to  be  an- 
nounced by  the  blast  of  a  trumpet  on 
their  entrance  into  the  lists  ;  the  flourish 
was  answered  by  the  heralds,  who  de- 
scribed aloud  the  arms  and  devices 
borne  by  the  kaight ;  hence,  to  blazon 
came  to  signify  to  "describe the  charges 
borne";  and  blazonry  is  "the  science 
of  describing  or  deciphering  arms." 
(German,  blascn,  to  blow.) 

B16.  3fa»fier  son  Hi'  en  herbe  (French), 
to  eat  tlie  calf  before  it  is  cast ;  to  siJend 
your  fortune  before  it  comes  to  you  ;  to 
spend  your  income  in  advance.  Liter- 
ally, to  feed  off  j'our  green  wheat. 

Blear-eyed  (T/ie).  Aurelius  Bran- 
doli'ni,  the  Italian  poet,  called  II  Lippo 
(144i)-1497). 

Bleed.  To  make  a  man  bleed  is  to 
make  him  pay  dearly  for  something  ;  to 
victimise  him.  Money  is  the  life-blood 
of  commerce. 

It  makes  my  heart  bleed.  It  makes  me 
very  sorrowful. 

"■  Slie  found  them  indeed, 
But  it  made  her  heart  bleed." 

Little  Bo-Prip. 

Bleeding  of  a  Dead  Body  (The). 
It  was  at  one  time  believed  that,  at  the 

10 


approach  of  a  murderer,  the  blood  of  the 
murdered  body  gushed  out.  If  iu  a 
dead  body  the  slightest  change  was  ob- 
servable in  the  ej'es,  mouth,  feet,  or 
hands,  the  murderer  was  supposed  to  be 
jn-esent.  The  notion  still  survives  in 
some  places. 

Blefus'cu.  An  island  severed  from 
Lilliput  by  a  channel  800  yards  wide, 
inhabited  by  pigmies.  Swift  meant  it 
for  France.     (G  a  Hirer'' s  Travels.) 

Bleidablik  [vast  splendour].  Tlie 
abode  of  Baldur,  the  Scandinaviau 
Apollo. 

Blemmyes  (of  Africa).  Men  said  to 
have  no  head,  their  eyes  and  mouth 
being  placed  in  the  breast.  ( See  Aceph.v- 
LiTEs;  Caoka.) 

Blenheim  Dog.  A  small  spaniel :  so 
called  from  Blenheim  Palace  in  Oxford- 
shire, where  the  breed  has  been  preserved 
ever  since  the  palace  was  built. 

Blenheim  House  (Oxfordshire).  The 
house  given  by  the  nation  to  the  Duke 
of  Marlborough,  for  his  victory  over  the 
French  at  Blenheim,  in  Bavaria,  iu  the 
reign  of  Queen  Anne  (1701). 

"  When  Europe  freed  confessed  the  saving  power 
Of  Marlborough's  hand,  Britaiu.  who  sent  him 

forth. 
Chief  of  confederate  hosts,  to  fl;,'ht  the  cause 
Of  liberty  aud  justice,  grateful  raised 
This  palace,  sacred  to  the  Ic.oler's  fame." 

Littleton. :  Blenheim. 

Blenheim  Steps.  Once  noted  for 
an  anatomical  school,  over  which  Sir 
Astley  Cooper  presided.  Here  "resur- 
rectionists "  were  sure  to  find  a  ready 
mart  for  their  gruesome  wares,  for  which 
they  received  sums  of  money  varying 
from  £3  to  £10,  and  sometimes  more. 
Such  phrases  as  "  going  to  Blenheim 
Steps,"  meant  going  to  be  dissected,  or 
unearthed  from  one's  grave. 

"  The  body-snatchers,  they  have  come, 
And  made  a  snatch  at  me; 
'Tis  very  hard  them  kind  of  men 

Won't  let  a  liody  be. 
Till'  cock  it  crou  s— 1  must  be  gone— 

JIv  William,  we  must  part: 
But  I'll  l)e  yours  in  death  although 
.Sir  .\stlev  has  my  heart." 

Hood :  Mary's  Ghost. 

Bless.  He  has  not  a  [si.i-penee]  to 
///r.sA  himself  icith,  i.e.  in  his  possession  ; 
wherewith  to  make  himself  happy.  This 
expression  may  p)robably  be  traced  to 
the  time  when  coins  were  marked  with 
a  deeply-indented  cross.  Cf.  To  keep 
the  devil  out  of  one's  pocket. 

Blessing  with  three  fnyers  is  sym- 
bolical of  the  Trinity,  iu  the  name  of 
the  Father,  aud  of  the  Sou,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 


Blest 


146 


Blindmen's  Dinner 


Blest,  ril  be  blest  if  I  do  if.  I 
am  resolved  uot  to  do  it.  A  euphemism 
for  atrst, 

Blikian'dabol  [.tplf/idid  niiscri/].  The 
cano]!}'  of  the  goddess  Hel  or  Hela  {q.  v.). 

Blimber  (Jliss).  A  blue -stocking, 
who  knows  the  dead  languages,  and 
wears  learned  spectacles.  She  is  the 
daughter  of  Dr.  Blimber,  a  fossil  school- 
master of  the  high  and  dry  grammar 
type.     {Dickois  :  JJomboj  and  hion.) 

Blind.  TJinfs  a  mere  blind.  A  pre- 
tence ;  something  ostensible  to  conceal 
a  covert  design.  The  metaphor  is  from 
v.'indow-blinds,  which  jireveut  outsiders 
from  seeing  into  a  room. 

Uliiid  an  a  bat.  A  bat  is  uot  blind, 
but  when  it  enters  a  room  well  lighted, 
it  cannot  see,  and  blunders  about.  It 
sees  best,  like  a  cat,  in  the  dusk.  {See 
Similes.) 

li/iiid  as  a  beetle.  Beetles  are  uot  blind, 
but  the  dor-beetle  or  hedge-chafer,  in  its 
rapid  flight,  will  occasionally  bump 
against  one  as  if  it  could  uot  see. 

Blind  as  a  mole.  Moles  are  not  blind, 
but  as  they  work  underground,  their 
eyes  are  very  small.  There  is  a  mole 
found  in  the  south  of  Europe,  the  eyes 
of  which  are  covered  by  niembi'anes, 
and  probably  this  is  the  animal  to  wliich 
Aristotle  refers  when  he  says,  "  the  mole 
is  Wind."     {See  Similes.) 

Blind  as  an  owl.  Owls  are  not 
blind,  but  being  night  birds,  they  see 
better  in  partial  darkness  than  in  the 
full  hght  of  day.     {Sec  Similes.) 

Yon  came  on  /lis  blind  side.  His  soft 
or  tender-hearted  side.  Said  of  persons 
who  wheedle  some  favour  out  of  another. 
He  yielded  because  he  was  not  wide 
awake  to  his  own  interest. 

"  Lincoln  wrote  to  the  same  friend  that  tLc 
nomination  took  the  democrats  on  the  lilinil 
Bide.''— X/coIo!/  and  Hay:  Abraham  Linculn, 
vol.  i.  chap.  xv.  p.  i'75. 

Blind  leaders  of  the  blind.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  a  sect  of  the  Pharisees,  who 
were  wont  to  shut  their  eyes  when  they 
walked  abroad,  and  often  ran  their 
heads  against  a  wall  or  fell  into  a  ditch. 
(Matt.  XV.  14.) 

The  Blind:— 

Francesco  Bello,  called  //  Cieeo. 

Luigi  Grotto,  called  //  Cieeo,  the 
Italian  poet.     (lo41-lo8o.) 

Lieutenant  James  Holman,  T/ie  Blind 
Traveller.     (1787-1857.) 

Ludwig  III.,  Emperor  of  Germany, 
VArciKjle.     (880,  8D0-9o4.) 


Blind  Alley  [A).  A  "cul  de  sac," 
an  alley  with  no  outlet.  It  is  blind 
because  it  has  no  "  eye "  or  passage 
through  it. 

Blind  Beggar  of  Bethnal  Green 

{TJie).  A  23ublic-house  sign  in  the 
Whitechapel  Road.  {Hoften :  Histonj  of 
Sign-Boards.)     {See  Beggae.  ) 

Blind  Department  {Tlic).  In  Post 
Olhce  parlance,  means  that  department 
where  letters  with  incoherent,  insuffi- 
cient, or  illegible  addresses  are  examined, 
and,  if  possible,  put  upon  tlie  proper 
track  for  delivery.  Tlie  clerk  so  em- 
jjloyed  is  called  "The  Blind  Man." 

".One  (if  these  addresses  was  "Santlings,  Hile- 
wite"  est.  Helen's,  Isle  of  Wight).  1,  ni.vself. 
had  one  from  France  addressed,  'A  Mons.  E. 
t'obham,  brasseur,  Angleterre.'and  it  reached  nic. 
Another  address  was  '  Haselfeach  in  no  fanit- 
sliere '  iHazelbeach,  Novthamptonshire)." 

Blind  Ditch  (.i).  One  which  cannot 
be  seen.     Here  blind  means  obscure,  as 

a  blind  rill/ir/r. 

Blind  Harper  {Tin).  John  Pany, 
who  died  1730. 

Blind  Harry.  A  Scotch  minstrel  of 
the  tifteenth  ceutuiy.  His  epic  of  Sir 
If'illiain  Wallace  runs  to  11, SGI  lines. 

Blind  Hedge  {A).  A  hawhaw 
hedge,  not  easily  seen.  Milton  uses  the 
word  blind  for  concealed,  as  "In  the 
blind  mazes  of  this  tangled  wood." 
[Comas,  line  181.) 

Blind  old  Man  of  Scio's  rocky 
Isle.  Homer  is  so  called  by  Bj-ron  in 
his  Bride  of  Ahijdos. 

Blind  Magistrate  {The).  Sir  John 
Fielding,  knighted  in  1761,  was  born 
blind.  He  wa  s  in  the  commission  of  the 
Peace  for  Middlesex,  Surrey,  Essex,  and 
the  liberties  of  Westminster. 

Blindman's  Holiday.  The  hour 
of  dusk,  when  it  is  too  dark  to  work, 
and  too  soon  to  light  candles. 

Blindman's  Lantern  {The), ox  "Eyes 
to  the  Blind."  A  walking  stick  Mith 
which  a  blind  man  guides  his  wa3'.  In 
French  argot   bougie  means  a  walking 

stick. 

Blindmen's  Dinner  {The).  A  din- 
ner unpaid  for.  A  dinner  in  which  the 
landlord  is  made  the  victim.  Euleu- 
spiegel  being  asked  for  alms  by  twelve 
blind  men,  said,  "Go  to  the  inn;  eat, 
drink,  and  be  merry,  my  men  ;  and  here 
are  twenty  florins  to  pay  the  fare." 
The    blind    men    thanked    him  ;     each 


Blinkers 


147 


Bloody- 


supposing  one  of  the  others  had  received 
the  money.  Reaching  tlie  inn,  they  told 
the  landlord  of  their  luck,  and  were  at 
once  provided  with  food  and  drink  to 
the  amount  of  twenty  florins.  On 
asking  for  payment,  they  all  said,  ' '  Let 
him  who  received  the  money  pay  for  the 
dinner ; ' '  but  none  had  received  a  penny. 

Blinkers.  Spectacles;  the  allusion 
is  to  a  horse's  blinkers. 

Block.  To  block  a  BUI.  In  parlia- 
meutarj^  language  means  to  postjjone  or 
prevent  the  x^assage  of  a  Bill  by  giving 
notice  of  opposition,  and  thus  jjreventing 
its  being  taken  after  half-past  twelve  at 
night. 

"  Bv  Mocking  tbe  Bill  [he]  dPiiieil  to  two  iiiil- 
lidii  I'lersdns  the  rJKht  of  haviiiK  votes."— t'oiidm- 
imranj  Ilcvicw,  August,  1884,  ii.  i71. 

Blockhead.  A  stupid  person ;  one 
without  brains.  The  allusion  is  to  a 
wig-maker's  dummy  or  fete  a  2}crruqitc, 
on  which  he  fits  his  wigs. 

"  Your  wit  will  not  so  soon  out  as  another  man's 
will  ;  'tis  strongly  wedged  up  in  a  block-head."— 
Shakespeare :  Coriolanus,  ii.  3. 

Blood.  A  buck,  an  aristocratic  rowdy. 
A  tei-m  taken  from  blood  horses. 

"A  blood  or  dandy  about  tmvn."— Thackeray : 
Vanity  Fair,  chap.  x.  p.  -I'.i. 

Blood.    Family  descent. 

''And  bath  made  of  one  blood  all  natii.'iis  of 
men."— Acts  xvii.  -'6. 

Blood  thicker  than  water.  Kelation- 
ship  has  a  claim  ■which  is  generally 
acknowledged.  It  is  better  to  seek  kind- 
ness from  a  kinsman  than  from  a 
stranger.  Water  soon  evaporates  and 
leaves  no  mark  behind ;  not  so  blood. 
So  the  interest  we  take  in  a  stranger  is 
thinner  and  more  evanescent  than  that 
which  we  take  in  a  blood  relation. 

"  Weel  !  blude's  thicker  than  water.  Sue's 
welcome  to  the  cheeses  and  the  hams  just  the 
same."— i'lj'  W.  Scott :  Guy  Mamiering. 

A  Prince  of  the  Blood.  One  of  the 
Royal  Family. 

Bad  blood.  Anger,  quarrels ;  as.  It 
itirs  up  bad  blood.  It  provokes  to  ill- 
feeling  and  contention. 

Bine  blood.     {Sec  under  Blue.) 

Yoniiff  blood.  Fresh  members;  as, 
"To  bring  young  blood  into  the  con- 
cern." 

In  cold  blood.  Deliberately :  not  in 
the  excitement  of  passion  or  of  battle. 

It  makes  onc^s  blood  boil.  It  provokes 
indignation  and  anger. 

/;;  rans  in  the  blood.  It  is  inherited  or 
exists  in  the  family  race. 

"It  runs  in  the  blood  of  our  family."— .S'/icri- 
dan :  The  Rivals,  iv.  :;. 


3fij  oivn  flesh  and  blood.  My  own 
children,  brothers,  sisters,  or  other  near 
kindred. 

Laics  icritien  in  Hood.  Dema'des  said 
that  the  laws  of  Draco  were  written  in 
blood,  because  every  offence  was  pun- 
ished by  death. 

The  Jicld  of  blood.  Acel'dama  (Acts  i. 
19),  the  piece  of  ground  purchased  with 
the  blood-money  of  our  Saviour,  and  set 
apart  for  the  burial  of  strangers. 

The  field  of  the  battle  of  Cannae, 
where  Hannibal  defeated  the  Romans, 
B.C.  21G. 

Blood  of  our  Saviour.  An  order  of 
knighthood  in  Mantua ;  so  called  because 
their  special  office  was  to  guard  "  the 
drops  of  the  Saviour's  blood  "  ]ireserved 
in  St.  Andrew's  church,  Mantua. 

Blood  and  iron  policy — i.e.  war  policy. 
No  explanation  needed. 

Blood  •  guiltiness.       The    guilt    of 
murder. 
Blood-horse  (.i).    A  thorough-bred. 

Bloodhound.  Figuratively,  one  who 
follows  up  an  enemy  with  pertinacity. 
Bloodhounds  used  to  be  employed  for 
tracking  wounded  game  by  the  blood 
spilt ;  subsequently  they  were  emj^loyed 
for  tracking  criminals  and  slaves  who 
had  made  their  escape,  and  were  hunters 
of  blood,  not  hunters  by  blood.  The 
most  noted  breeds  are  the  African, 
Cuban,  and  English. 

Blood  Money.  Money  paid  to  a 
person  for  giving  such  evidence  as  shall 
lead  to  the  conviction  of  another ;  money 
paid  to  the  next  of  kin  to  induce  him  to 
forego  his  "xight"  of  seeking  blood  for 
blood ;  money  paid  to  a  person  for  be- 
traying another,  as  Judas  was  paid 
blood-money  for  showing  the  band  the 
place  where  Jesus  might  be  found. 

Blood  Relation  {A).  One  in  direct 
descent  from  the  same  father  or  mother ; 
one  of  the  same  family  stock. 

Blood-thirsty.  Eager  for  shedding 
blood. 

Blood  of  the  Grograms  {The). 
Taffety  gentility ;  make-believe  aristo- 
cratic blood.  Grogram  is  a  coarse  siDc 
taffety  stiffened  with  gum  (French,  gros- 
grain). 

"  Our  first  tracedian  was  always  boasting  of  bis 
being  'an  old  actor,'  and  was  full  of  the 'blood 
of  theGrograms.'"— C.  T;iD)Hst>u;  Autobiography, 
15.200. 

Bloody,  used  as  an  expletive  in  such 
phrases  as  "A  bloody  fool,"  "Bloody 
drunk,"  etc.,  arose  from  associating 
folly  and  druukeuness,  etc.,  with  what 


Bloody 


148 


Blow 


are  called  "Bloods,"  or  aristocratic 
rowdies.    Similar  to  "Drunk  as  a  lord." 

"It  was  bloody  bot  walking  to-day."— .S'(Ci/(  ; 
Journal  to  Stella,  letter  xxii. 

Bloody  {T/ip).  Otho  II.,  Emperor  of 
Germany.     (955,  973-983.) 

The  Bloodi)  mcccnth.  The  old  lltli 
Foot  was  so  called  from  their  having 
been  several  times  nearly  annihilated,  as 
at  Almanza,  Fontenoy,  Roucoux,  Os- 
tend,  and  Salamanca  (1812),  in  captur- 
ing a  French  standard.  Now  called 
"  The  Devonshire  Regiment." 

Bloody  Assizes,  The  infamous  as- 
sizes held  by  Judge  Jeffreys  in  1685. 
Three  hundred  were  executed,  more 
whipped  or  imprisoned,  aud  a  thousand 
sent  to  the  plantations  for  taking  part 
in  Monmouth's  rebellion. 

Bloody  Bill.    The  31   Henry  VIII., 

c.  14,  which  denounced  death,  by  hang- 
ing or  burning,  on  all  who  denied  the 
doctrine  of  trausubstautiatiou. 

Bloody-bones.  A  hobgoblin  ;  gen- 
erally "  Raw-head  and  Bloody-Bones." 

Bloody  Butcher.     {Sec  BuTcnEE.) 

Bloody  Hand.  A  man  whose  hand 
was  bloody,  and  was  therefore  presumed 
to  be  the  jjerson  guilty  of  killing  the 
deer  shot  or  otherwise  slain.  {Cf.  Red 
Hand.)    Also  the  badge  of  a  baronet. 

Bloody  Wedding.  St.  Bartholo- 
mew's slaughter  in  lo7'2  is  so  called 
because  it  took  place  dm-iug  the  mar- 
riage feast  of  Henri  (afterwards  Henri 
IV.)  and  Marguerite  (daughter  of  Cath- 
erine de  Medici) . 

Bloody  Week  {Thi).  The  week 
ending  on  Sunday,  May  28th,  1871,  when 
Paris  was  burning,  being  set  on  tire  by 
the  Communists  in  hundreds  of  places. 
The  destruction  was  frightful,  but  Notre 
Dame,  the  Hotel  Dieu,  and  the  magnifi- 
cent collection  of  pictures  in  the  Louvre, 
happily  escaped  demolition. 

Bloom.  From  hhom  io  bloom.  A 
floral  rent.  The  Lord  of  the  Manor 
received  a  red  rose  or  gillyflower,  on  the 
Feast  of  John  the  Baptist,  yearly  (July 
.5th,  O.  S.).  (See  Notes  and  Queries, 
Feb.  13th,  1886,  p.  135.) 

Bloom'erism.  A  female  costume  ; 
so  called  from  Mrs.  Amelia  Bloomer,  of 
New  York,  who  tried  in  1849  to  intro- 
duce the  fashion.  The  dress  consisted 
of  a  short  skirt  and  loose  trousers 
gathered  closely  round  the  ankles — 
becoming   enough   to    young   ladies    in 


their  teens,  but  ridiculous  for  "  the  fat 
and  forty." 

Blount  (Charles).  Author  of  some 
deistical  writings  in  the  time  of  Charles 
II.  (1654-1693.) 
"  He  heard  of  Blount,  etc."  Crabbe :  Borough.  ' 
Blouse.  A  short  smock-frock  of  a 
blue  colour  worn  commonly  by  French 
w*orkmen.  Bleu  is  French  argot  for 
mantcau. 

"A  garment  called  bliant  or  bliniis,  wLich  ap- 
pears to  bare  been  another  name  for  a  snrcoat 

In  this  bliaus  we  may  discover  the  modern  French 
blouse,  a  .  .  .  sniock-f rock."— Pidncfte ;  British 
Costume. 

1.  Blow  (To).  As  the  wind  blows  ; 
or  to  blow  with  the  breath.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  blawan,  to  blow  or  breathe.) 

It  will  soon  blow  over.  It  will  soon  be 
no  longer  talked  about ;  it  will  soon 
come  to  an  end,  as  a  gale  or  storm  blows 
over  or  ceases. 

V  To  blow  off  is  another  form  of  the 
same  phrase.  ^ 

'To  blow  (jreat  ffiins.  The  wind  blows 
so  violently  that  its  noise  resembles  the 
roar  of  artillery. 

To  blow  hot  and  cold,  (or)  To  blow  hot 
and  cold  tcith  the  same  breath.  To  be 
inconsistent.  The  allusion  is  to  the  fable 
of  a  traveller  who  was  entertained  by 
a  satyr.  Being  cold,  the  traveller  blew 
his  fingers  to  warm  them,  and  afterwards 
blew  his  hot  broth  to  cool  it.  The  satyr, 
iu  great  indignation,  turned  him  out  of 
doors,  because  he  blew  both  hot  and  cold 
with  the  same  breath. 

To  blow  off  the  ste'tm.  To  get  rid  of 
superfluous  energy.  The  allusion  is  to 
the  forcible  escape  of  superfluous  steam 
no  longer  required. 

2.  Blow  {To').     To  sound  a  trumpet. 

"  But.  when  tljc  blast  of  war  blows  in  our  cars, 
Let  us  lio  tigers  in  our  tlerre  deportment." 
tihakesiKure :  Ihiiry  1'.,  iii.  1. 

To  blow.  To  inform  against  a  com- 
panion;  to  "ijeach."  The  reference  is 
to  the  announcing  of  knights  by  blast  of 
trumpet. 

3.  Blow  {To).  To  blast  as  with  gnu- 
powder. 

/  will  blow  him  up  ski/  hifili.  Give  him 
a  good  scolding.  A  rcyuJar  blowing  up 
is  a  thorough  jobation.  The  metajihor 
is  from  blasting  by  gunpowder. 

V  But  to  blow  up  a  bladder,  etc.,  means 
to  inflate  it. 

4.  Blow.  A  stroke.  (German,  blducn, 
to  beat  or  strike.) 

At  one  blou:.     By  one  stroke. 
The  first  blou^  is  half  the  battle.     Well 
bcgunis  half  done.     Pythagoras  used  to 


Blow  a  Cloud 


149 


Blue 


say,  "  The  begiiniiiig  is  half  the  whole." 
'^Incipe :  l)'iiitldi(iiii  faeti  est  cccpisse  " 
{Aiisonius).  "■  JJunidiiiiiifacti,  qui  cwp'it, 
hahct  "  {Horace).  "  Ce  ii'cst  que  le 
premier  pas  qui  coilte.^' 

If'itJwut  striking  a  hhic.  Without 
coming  to  a  contest. 

Blow  a  Cloud.  To  smoke  a  cigar  or 
pipe.  This  terra  was  in  use  in  Queen 
Elizabeth's  reign. 

Blow  Me  (an  oath).  You  be  blowed 
(an  oath),  a  play  on  the  word  Dash  vie, 
whicli  is  a  euphemism  for  a  more  offen- 
sive oath. 

"'  Well,  if  you  won't  sUnd  a  iiint,' iiviotli  tlie  tall 
man, '  1  will,  tljal's  all,  and  blow  lonipcauce.' "'— 
Kiiigsley  :  Alton  Locke,  cbaii.  ii. 

Blow  Out  (A).  A  "  tuck  in, "  or  feast 
which  swells  out  the  paunch. 

Blow-point,  A  game  similar  to  our 
pea-puffing,  only  instead  of  peas  small 
wooden  skewers  or  hits  of  pointed  wood 
were  jjuffed  through  the  tube.  The 
game  is  alluded  to  by  Florio,  Strutt, 
;iud  several  other  authors. 

Blown,  in  the  jihrase  "fly-blown," 
lias  nothing  to  do  with  the  verb  to  b/oiv 
(as  the  wind  blows).  It  means  that  flies 
have  deposited  their  eggs  and  tainted 
tlie  artichi.  In  French,  dvposcr  des  wufs 
de  Dioiiches  sur  .  .  .  and  a  fly-blow  is 
HH  «.7(/'  ,,V  nioHche.  The  word  seems  to  be 
connected  with  blot,  the  egg  of  a  motli 
or  other  insect. 

Blown  Herrings  are  bloated  lier- 
rings.  Tlie  French  boiiffi  (blown)  is 
iuialogous  to  both  expressions.  Blown 
herrings  are  herrings  bloated,  swollen, 
or  cured  by  smoking. 

Blown  upon.  Made  the  subject  of  a 
Bcaudal.  His  reputation  has  been  blown 
upon,  means  has  been  the  subject  of 
ttilk  wherein  something  derogatory  was 
hinted  at  or  even  asserted.  Blown  upon 
by  the  breath  of  slander. 

"  Blown,"  meaning  stale,  tainted,  is  probably 
tlie  same  as  the  above  ;  but  blown  iiyoii,  can- 
not be. 

Blowzelin'da.  A  country  maiden  in 
Gay's  pastoral  called  The  Shepherd's 
Week. 

".Sweet  is  my  toil  when  Blowzelind  is  near  ; 
Of  her  bereft,  'tis  winter  all  the  year.  .  .  . 
Come,  Blowzelinda,  ease  tliy  swain's  desire, 
Jly  summer's  shadow  and  my  winter's  Are." 

Pastoral  i. 

Blowzy.  Coarse,  red-faced,  bloated ; 
applied  to  women.  The  word  is  allied 
to  blush,  blaze,  etc.  (Dutch,  bloozen 
and  blaazcn  ;  Danish,  blusser,  to  blaze.) 

Blubber.     To  cry  like  a  child,  -with 


noise   and  slavering.      Connected  with 
slobber,  slaver. 

"  I  play  the  boy,  and  blubber  in  thy  bosom." 
Vticuy :  Venice  Preserved,  i.  1. 

Blubber  Cheeks.  Fat,  flabby  cheeks, 
like  whale's  blubber.  "The  blubber 
cheeks  of  my  friend  the  baronet." 

Bluchers.  Half  boots  ;  so  called  after 
Field-Marshal  von  Blucher  (1742-1819). 

Blue  or  Azure  is  the  symbol  of  Divine 
eternity  and  hmnan  immortality.  Con- 
sequently, it  is  a  mortuary  colour — 
hence  its  use  in  covering  the  coffins  of 
young  persons.  When  used  for  the  gar- 
ment of  an  angel,  it  signifies  faith  and 
fidelity.  As  the  dress  of  the  Virgin,  it 
indicates  modesty.  In  blazonrif,  it  sig- 
nifies chastity,  loyalty,  fidelity,  and  a 
sjiotless  reputation. 

The  Covenanters  wore  blue  as  their 
badge,  in  oi^ijosition  to  the  scarlet  of 
royalty.  They  based  their  choice  on 
Numb.  XV.  38,  "  Sjieak  unto  the  children 
of  Israel,  and  bid  them  that  they  make 
them  fringes  in  the  borders  of  their 
garments  .  .  .  and  that  they  put  upon 
the  fringe  .  .  .  ix.  ribband  of  blue." 

(iSee  Colours  for  its  syml)olisms.) 

Blue  (-•/),  or  a  "staunch  blue,"  de- 
scrijitive  of  political  opinions,  for  the 
most  jiart  means  a  Tory,  for  in  most 
counties  the  Conservative  coloiu'  is  blue. 
{See  True  Blue.) 

"  This  was  a  blue  demonstration,  a  gathering  of 
the  Conservative  clans."~//o/Hje  Lie. 

A  blue.     {Sec  Blue  Stocking.) 

A  dark  blue.  An  Oxford  man  or 
Harrow  boy. 

A  liylit  blue.  A  Cambridge  man  or 
Eton  boy. 

An  old  blue.  One  who  lias  pulled  in 
a  University  boat-race,  or  taken  part  in 
any  of  their  athletic  contests. 

"  There  were  five  old  blues  liXfiying." —Standard, 
May  .sth,  ls«:j. 

True  blue.  This  is  a  Spanish  phrase, 
and  refers  to  the  notion  that  the  veins 
shown  in  the  skin  of  aristocratic  families 
are  more  blue  than  that  of  inferior  i^er- 
sons.     {See  Sang.) 

'True  blue  n-ill  never  stain.  A  really 
noble  heart  will  never  disgrace  itself. 
The  reference  is  to  blue  aprons  and 
blouses  woi-n  by  butchers,  which  do  not 
show  blood-stains. 

True  as  (Joventry  blue.  The  reference 
is  to  a  blue  cloth  and  blue  thread  made 
at  Coventry,  noted  for  its  pennaneut 
dye. 

^Tu-as  Presbj/ferian  true  blue  {Hudibras, 
i,  1).     The  allusion  is  to  the  blue  apron 


Blue-apron 


I.IO 


Blue  Devils 


which  some  of  the  Presbyteriau  preachers 
used  to  throw  over  their  preaching-tub 
before  they  began  to  address  the  people. 
In  one  of  the  Rump  songs  we  read  of  a 
jjerson  going  to  hear  a  lecture,  and  the 
song  says — 

"  Wlieve  I  a  tub  did  view, 
Hung  with  au  apron  blue; 
'Twas  the  preacher's,  I  conjecturo." 

To  h'ok  blue.  To  be  disconcerted.  He 
■was  blue  in  the  face.  Aghast  with  won- 
der. The  effect  of  fear  and  wonder  is  to 
drive  the  colour  from  the  cheeks,  and 
give  them  a  pale-bluish  tinge. 

Blue-apron  Statesman  (^i).  A  lay 
politician,  a  tradesman  who  interferes 
with  the  affairs  of  the  nation.  The 
reference  is  to  the  blue  aiirou  once 
worn  by  almost  all  tradesmen,  but  now 
restricted  to  butchers,  i^oulterers,  fish- 
mongers, and  so  on. 

Blue  Beans.    Bullets.   Lead  is  blue. 

"  Mauy  a  valiaut  Gaul  had  no  breakfast  that 
morning  but  what  the  Germans  call  '  blue 
bCiins,'  i.e.  bullets."— IK.  Maccall :  My  School  Vai/s, 
1885. 

Three  blue  beans  in  a  Hue  bottle  or 
Madder.     {See  under  Beans.) 

Bluebeard.  A  bogey,  a  merciless 
tyrant,  in  Charles  Pcrrault's  C'onfcs  dn 
Tctnjjs.  The  talc  of  Bluebeard  (Cheva- 
lier Raoul)  is  known  to  every  child,  but 
mauy  have  speculated  on  the  original  of 
this  despot.  Some  say  it  was  a  satire  on 
Henry  VIII.,  of  wife-killing  notoriety. 
Dr.  C.  Taylor  thinks  it  is  a  type  of  the 
castle  lords  in  the  days  of  knight- 
errantry.  Holinshed  calls  Giles  de  Eetz, 
Marquis  de  Laval,  the  original  Blue- 
beard. This  Giles  or  Gilles  who  lived  at 
Machecoul,  in  Brittany,  was  accused  of 
murdering  six  of  his  seven  Avives,  and 
was  ultimately  strangled  and  burnt  in 
14t0. 

"The  Bluebeard  chamber  of  his  mind,  into 
which  no  e.ve  but  his  own  must  look."— Cor^i/Ze. 

*,*  Campbell  has  a  Bluebeard  story  in 
his  Tales  of  the  Western  HighhDuh, 
called  Tlic  JVidow  and  her  JDaugltters. 
A  similar  one  is  No.  39  of  Visentini's 
collection  of  Italian  stories.  So  is  No.  3 
of  Bernoui's  collection. 

Bluebeard's  Key.  When  the  blood 
stain  of  this  key  was  rubbed  out  on  one 
side,  it  appeared  on  the  opposite  side  ;  so 
prodigality  being  overcome  will  appear 
in  the  fonn  of  meanness  ;  and  friends, 
over-fond,  will  often  become  enemies. 

Blue  Billy  {A).  A  blue  neckcloth 
with  white  spots,  worn  by  "V\''illiam 
Mace.  More  likely  the  allusion  is  to  the 
bill  or  uose.     (-SVt  Billy.) 


Blue  Blood.  (-SVr-page  149,  True  Blue.) 

Blue  Boar.  A  iiublic-house  sign ; 
the  cognisance  of  Eicliard  III.  In 
Leicester  is  a  lane  in  the  i)arish  of  St. 
Nicholas,  called  the  Blue  Boar  Lnnc,  be- 
cause Richard  slejjt  there  the  night 
before  the  battle  of  Bosworth  Field. 

'■The  bristly  boar,  in  infant  gore, 
Wallows  beneath  the  thoriiy  shade." 

Gniij :  The  Hard. 

Blue  Bonnets  (T/)/).  The  Scotch 
Highlanders  ;  the  Scotch  generally.  So 
called  from  the  blue  woollen  cap  at  one 
time  in  very  general  use  in  Scotland, 
and  still  far  from  uncommon. 

"  Ensland  shall  many  a  day 
Tell  of  the  bloody  fray, 
When  tlie  lilue  lionnets  came  over  Ibo  liorder." 
Sir  ^y.  Sfolt. 

Blue  Books.  In  England,  iiarlia- 
mentary  reports  and  ofhcial  publications 
jiiresented  by  the  Crown  to  both  Houses 
of  Parliament.  Each  volume  is  in  folio, 
and  is  covered  with  a  blue  wrapper. 

'.'  Short  Acts  of  Parliament,  etc.,  even 
without  a  wrapper,  come  under  the  same 
designation. 

In  America,  the  "Blue  Bonks"  (like  our  "Red 
Bonks")  c(julaiii  li.<ls  of  those  persons  who  hold 
u-oveninient  appdinliiients.  The  ollicial  colour  of 
Spiiiii  is  ?c(/,  of  Italy  ijirii),  of  France  yclloic,  of 
Germany  and  PuituuMl  aliite. 

Blue  Bottle.  A  beadsman,  a  police- 
man ;  so  called  from  the  colour  of  his 
dress.  Shakespeare  makes  Doll  Tear- 
sheet  denounce  the  beadle  as  a  "  blue- 
bottle rogue." 

"  You  proud  varlets,  you  need  not  lie  ashamed 
to  wear  lilue,  when  your  master  is  one  of  your 
fellows."— i>etec)-;  The  Honest  ^\^hore  ami). 

"  I'll  have  you  soundly  swinged  for  this,  you 
blue-bottle  rogue."  —  SftaA'cspeare .-  'i  hen.  IV., 
act  v.  4. 

Blue    Caps    or  Blue  Buj/nets.    The 

Scotch. 

"  He  is  there,  too,  .  .  .  and  a  thousand  blue 
caps  more."— Shakespeare :  1  Henry  IV.,  ii.  4. 

Blue-coat  School.  Christ's  Hos- 
pital is  so  called  because  the  boys  there 
wear  a  long  blae  coat  girded  at  the  loins 
with  a  leather  belt.  Some  who  attend 
the  mathematical  school  are  termed 
Kbui''s  bo;/s,  and  those  who  constitute 
the  highest  class  are  Grecians. 

Founded  by  Edward  VI.  in  the  j-ear 
of  his  death.  There  are  several  other 
blue-coat  schools  in  England  besides 
Christ's  Hosi^ital. 

Blue  Devils,  or  A  fit  of  the  Lines. 
A  fit  of  spleen,  low  spirits.  Roach  and 
Esqutrol  affirm,  from  observation,  that 
indigo  dyei-s  are  especially  subject  to 
melancholy ;    and  that  those  who  dye 


Blue-eyed    Maid 


151 


Blue  Peter 


scarlet  are  choleric.  Paracelsus  also 
asserts  that  hkio  is  iujurious  to  the 
health  and  spirits.  There  may,  there- 
fore, be  more  science  in  calling  melan- 
choly blue  than  is  generally  allowed. 
The  Gennan  blci  (lead)  which  gives  rise 
to  our  slang  word  blue  or  blnetj  (lead) 
seems  to  bear  upon  the  ' '  leaden  down- 
cast eyes  "  of  melancholy. 

Blue-eyed  Maid  {The).  Minerva, 
the  goddess  of  wisdom,  is  so  called  l)y 
Homer. 

"Now  Prudence  gently  pulled  tlie  poet's  e:ir, 
And  tbus  tUe  dauslitei-  nf  the  Blue-eyed  Mriid, 
In  flattery's  sootliin^'  sounds,  divinely  s:iid, 
'  0  Peter,  eldest-hcmi  nf  PUoehus,  liear.'  " 

Peter  Pindar  :  A  Falling  Minister. 

Blue  Fish  (T/ie).  The  shark,  tech- 
nically called  Carcharias  c/laucits,  tlie 
ujjpcr  parts  of  which  are  blue. 

Blue  Flag.  He  has  hoisted  the  bhte 
flu'j.  He  lias  turned  ]3ublican  or  fisli- 
monger,  iu  allusion  to  the  blue  apron  at 
one  time  worn  by  publicans,  and  still 
worn  by  fishmongers. 

Blue  Gown  {.V).  A  liarlot.  Xares 
tells  us  that  "a  blue  gown  was  a  dress 
of  ignominy  for  a  liarlot  in  the  House  of 
Correction.     {See  beloiv.) 

Blue-gowns.  The  bedesmen,  to  wliom 
the  kings  of  Scotland  distributed  cer- 
tain alms.  Their  dress  was  a  cloak  or 
gown  of  coarse  blue  cloth,  with  a  pewter 
badge.  The  number  of  these  bedesmen 
■was  equal  to  that  of  the  king's  years,  so 
that  an  extra  one  was  added  every  re- 
turning birthday.  These  paupers  \^'ere 
privileged  to  ask  alms  through  the  whole 
realm  of  Scotland.  No  new  member  has 
been  added   since    1833.     {See  Gabee- 

LUNZIE.) 

Blue  Guards  {The).  So  the  Oxford 
Blues,  now  called  the  Royal  Horse 
Guards,  w^ere  called  during  the  cam- 
paign in  Flanders  (1742-1715). 

Blue  Hen.  Captain  Caldwell  u^ed 
to  say  that  no  cock  could  be  truly 
game  whose  mother  was  not  a  blue 
hen.  As  Caldwell  commanded  the 
1st  Delaware  regiment  in  the  war, 
the  State  of  Delaware  was  nicknamed 
Blue  Hen. 

Your  Mother  teas  a  blue  hen,  no  doubt. 
A  reproof  given  to  a  braggart.  {See 
above.) 

Blue-jackets.  Sailors  ;  so  called  be- 
cause the  colour  of  their  jackets  is  blue. 

Blue  John  (vi).  A  petrefactiou  of 
blue  fluor-spar,  found  in  the  Blue  John 
mine  of  Tre  Cliff,  Derbyshire ;  and  so 


called  to  distinguish  it  from  the  Black 
Jack,  an  ore  of  zinc.  Called  John  from 
John  Kirk,  a  miner,  who  lii-st  noticed  it. 

Blue  Laws  {The).  These  were 
puritanical  laws  enacted  in  1732,  at  New 
Haven,  Connecticut,  in  the  United 
States  of  America.  Their  object  was  to 
stamp  out  ''heresy,"  and  enforce  a 
strict  observance  of  the  Sunday.  Many 
persons  insist  that  they  are  apocryphal ; 
but  in  October,  1891,  the  German  Ameri- 
can Lincoln  Club  protested  against  their 
enforcement  by  a  democratic  j  udge,  and 
resolved — ■ 

"To  c;ill  upon  ,ill  right-thinking  citizens  to 
assist  in  an  effort  to  have  the  laws  repealed,  liv 
suppirting  and  voting  only  for  such  candidates 
for  the  legislature  as  would  pledge  themselves 
to  vote  f<ir  their  repeal." 

Blue-light  Federalists.  A  name 
given  to  those  Americans  who  were  be- 
lieved to  have  made  friendly  (''blue- 
light")  signals  to  British  ships  in  the 
Avar.     (181'.^.) 

Blue-mantle.  The  English  pursui- 
vant at  arms  is  so  called  from  his  oilicitil 
robe. 

Blue  Monday.  The  Monday  before 
Lent,  spent  in  dissipation.  (German, 
(ler  blaiie  Mun  tdf/.)  It  is  said  that  dissipa- 
tion gives  everything  a  blue  tinge.  Hence 
"  blue  "  means  tijisy .  {See  Blue  Devils.  ) 

•■  nrlnlc  till  all  is  Idue. 
Cracking  bottles  till  all  is  blue." 

Fraser's  Magazine,  xvii.  (1838). 

Blue  Moon.  Once  in  a  blue  moon. 
Very  rarely  indeed. 

V  On  December  10th,  1883,  we  liad  a 
"blue  moon."  The  winter  was  un- 
usually mild. 

Blue  Mould.  Applied  to  cheese  which 
has  become  the  bed  of  a  fungus,  tech- 
nically called  Aspergillas  ahtuctis. 

The  blue  mould  of  bread,  paste,  jams, 
etc.,  is  the  fungus  called  Macor  Mucedo. 

Blue  Murder.  To  sJiout  blue  murder. 
Indicative  more  of  terror  or  alarm  than 
of  real  danger.  It  appears  to  be  a  play 
on  the  French  exclamation  morbleii ; 
there  may  also  be  a  distinct  allusion  to 
the  common  phrase  "blue  ruin." 

Blue-noses.    The  Nova  Scotians. 

'•  •  Pray,  sir,'  said  one  of  my  fellow-passengers, 
'  can  you  tell  me  the  reason  why  the  N()\  a  Scotians 
are  called  "  Blue-noses  '  ?' 

'■'  It  is  the  name  of  a  potato,' said  I,' which  they 
produce  in  the  greatest  perfection,  and  boast  to 
be  the  best  in  the  world.  The  Americans  have, 
in  consequence,  given  them  the  nickname  of  £i«e 
Noses.'  "—Haliburton :  Sam  Slick. 

Blue  Peter.  A  flag  with  a  blue 
ground  and  white  square  in  the  centre, 
hoisted  as  a  signal  that  the  sliip  is  tibout 
to   sail.      Peter  is  a  corruption   of   the 


Blue-pigeon 


152 


Bluff 


French  partir  (leave  or  notice  of  de- 
parture). The  flag  is  hoisted  to  give 
notice  to  the  town  that  any  person 
having  a  money-claim  may  make  it 
hefore  the  ship  starts,  and  that  all  about 
to  sail  are  to  come  on  board. 

According  to  Falconer,  it  is  a  cori'up- 
tiou  of  the  "  blue  repeater." 

In  whist,  it  is  a  "  call  for  trumps  "  ; 
tliat  is,  laying  on  your  partner's  card  a 
liiy,her  one  than  is  requu'ed. 

To  hoist  the  blue  Peter.     To  leave. 

"  '  Wlien  are  you  going  to  sail  ? ' 

"'I  caiiuot  justly  say.  .Our  sbip's  bound  for 
America  next  voyage  .  .  .  but  I've  got  to  go  to 
tlie  Isle  of  Man  first  .  .  .  And  I  may  have  to  hoist 
the  blue  Peter  any  day.' "— JIfrs.  Gaskell :  Mary 
lliirton,  chap.  xiii. 

Rlue-pigeon  Flyer.      A  man  who 

steals  the  lead  oft'  of  a  house  or  church. 
"Bluey"  is  slang  for  lead,  so  called 
from  its  colour.  To  "pigeon"  is  to 
gull,  cheat,  or  fub.  Hence,  blue-pigeon, 
one  who  cheats  another  of  his  lead,  or 
fiibs  his  lead.  "Flyer,"  of  course,  is 
one  who  flies  off  ^vith  the  stolen  lead. 

Blue  Ribbon  (The).  "  To  be  adorned 
with  the  blue  ribbon,"  to  be  made 
knight  of  the  garter,  or  adoi-ued  with  a 
blue  ribbon  at  the  knee.  Blue  ribbon 
is  also  a  temperance  badge.  {See  Coedon 
Bleu.) 

"Lord  Lansdown  is  to  be  made  Knight  of  the 
fiarter  ....  thmigh  there  is  no  vacancy.  Lord 
Derby  received  the  Blue  Ril)bon  in  18.59,  although 
lliere  was  no  \;ic:incy ."—Truth  :  March,  18U4. 

The  Blue  Iltbhon  of  the  Turf.  The 
Derby.  Lord  George  Bentinck  sold  his 
stud,  and  found  to  his  vexation  that  one 
of  the  horses  sold  won  the  Derby  a  few 
months  afterwards.  Bewailing  his  ill- 
luck,  he  said  to  Disraeli,  "All!  you  don't 
know  what  the  Derby  is."  "Yes,  I  do," 
replied  Disraeli ;  "  it  is  the  blue  ribbon 
of  the  turf,"  alluding  to  the  term  cordon 
lifeit  {(j.r.)  ;  or  else  to  the  blue  garter, 
the  highest  of  all  orders. 

"  "The  blue  ribbon  of  the  profession  " 
is  the  highest  point  of  honour  attainable 
tlierein.  The  blue  ribbon  of  the  Church 
is  tlie  Archbishopric  of  Canterbiury,  that 
in  law  is  the  oftice  of  Lord  Chancellor. 

Blue  Ribbon  (A).  A  wale  from  a 
blow.    A  bruise  turns  the  skin  blue. 

'• '  Do  you  want  a  blue  ribbon  round  those  white 
sides  of  yoiu-s,  you  monkey  ?'  answered  Orestes  ; 
•  because,  if  yon  do.  the  hii>poi>otamus  hide  hangs 
ready  outside.'  "—Kingsley :  Uypatia,  chap.  iv. 

Blue  Ruin.  Gin.  Called  blue  from 
its  tint,  and  ridn  from  its  eftects. 

Blue  Squadron  {TIk).  One  of  the 
three  divisions  of  the  British  Fleet  in 
the  seventeenth  century.  {See  Admieal 
OF  THE  Blue.) 


Blue  Stocking  A  female  pedant. 
In  1400  a  society  of  ladies  and  gentle- 
men was  formed  at  Venice,  distinguished 
by  the  colour  of  their  stockings,  and 
called  della  caha.  It  lasted  till  1590, 
when  it  appeared  in  Paris  and  was  the 
rage  among  the  lady  sacaiites.  From 
France  it  came  to  England  in  1780,  when 
Mrs.  Mon'tague  displaj-ed  the  badge  of 
the  Bas-bleu  club  at  her  evening  assem- 
blies. Mr.  Benjamin  Stillingfleet  was  a 
constant  attendant  of  the  soirees.  The 
last  of  the  clique  was  Miss  Mouckton, 
afterwards  Countess  of  Cork,  who  died 
1840. 

"  '  You  used  to  be  fond  enough  of  books  ....  a 
regular  blue-stocking  Mr.  Bland  called  you.'  "— 
-K.  .s'.  Pliclps:  The  Gates  Ajar,  cuap.  i\. 

Blue  Talk.  Indecent  conversation, 
from  the  French,  Bibliofher/ne  Bleu. 
(Harlots  are  called  "Blues"  from  the 
blue  gown  they  were  once  compelled  to 
wear  in  the  House  of  Correction.) 

Blue  Wonder  {A).  The  German 
Blaites  Wiitider,  which  means  "a  queer 
story,"  as  T)n  soUst  dein  blanes  irnitder 
seJien,  You  will  be  filled  with  amaze- 
ment (at  the  queer  story  I  have  to 
relate).  A  "blue  wonder"  is  a  cock 
and  bull  story,  an  imf)robable  tale, 
something  to  make  one  stare.  The 
French,  eontcs  bleus. 

Blue  and  Red,  in  public-house  signs, 
are  heraldic  colours,  as  the  Blue  Pig, 
the  Blue  Cow,  the  Eed  Lion,  the  Eed 
Hart,  etc. 

Blue  and  Yello-w  {The).  The  Edin- 
burgh Revieic  ;  so  called  from  its  yellow 
and  blue  cover.  The  back  is  yellow,  the 
rest  of  the  cover  is  blue. 

Blues  {The),  ai^ijlied  to  troops. 

The  O.tford  Blues.  The  Royal  Horse 
Guards  were  so  called  in  1690,  from  the 
Earl  of  Oxford  their  conunander  and  the 
blue  facings.  WelHngton,  in  one  of  his 
despatches,  writes: — "I  have  been  ap- 
pointed colonel  of  the  Blues." 

"It  was  also  known  as  the  'Blue  C4iiards' 
during  the  campaign  in  Flanders  (1742-1745)."— 
Trimtii :  Ititjiiiients  ufthe  British  Army. 

BluflF(2w),  in  the  game  called  Poker, 
is  to  stake  on  a  bad  hand.  This  is  a 
dodge  resorted  to  by  players  to  lead  an 
adversary  to  throw  up  his  cards  and 
forfeit  his  stake  rather  than  risk  them 
against  the  "  bluft'er." 

"The  game  proceeded.  George,  although  he 
atfected  no  ignorance  of  the  ordinary  principles 
of  poker,  played  like  a  novice— that  is  to  sjiy,  he 
bluffed  extravagantly  on  absurdly  low  hands."— 
Truth :  Queer  Stories,  Sept.  3rd,  1885. 


Bluff  Harry 


153 


Boar's  Flesh 


Bluff  Harry  or  Hal.  Heury  VIII., 
so  called  from  his  blufY  and  burly  man- 
ners (1491,  1.j09-1o47.) 

Blunderbore.  A  giant,  brother  of 
Cormorau,  who  put  Jack  the  Giant 
Killer  to  bed  and  intended  to  kill  him ; 
but  Jack  thrust  a  billet  of  wood  into 
the  l)ed,  and  crept  under  the  bedstead. 
Blunderbore  came  with  his  club  and 
broke  the  billet  to  pieces,  but  was  much 
amazed  at  seeing  Jack  next  morning  at 
broakfast-time.  When  his  astoui.sh- 
ment  was  abated  he  asked  Jack  how 
he  had  slept.  "Pretty  well,"  said  the 
Cornish  hero,  "but  once  or  twice  I 
fancied  a  mouse  tickled  me  with  its 
tail."  This  increased  the  giant's  sur- 
prise. Hasty  pudding  being  provided 
for  breakfast.  Jack  stowed  away  such 
huge  stores  in  a  bag  concealed  within 
his  dress  that  the  giant  could  not  keep 
l^ace  with  him.  Jack  cut  the  bag  open 
to  relieve  "  the  gorge,"  and  the  giant, 
to  effect  the  same  relief,  cut  his  throat 
and  thus  killed  himself.     {See  Giants.) 

Blunderbuss.  A  short  gun  with  a 
large  bore.  (Dutch,  donderbus,  a  thun- 
der-tube.) 

Blunt.     Eeady  money. 

Blunt  {Mdjur-Genernl).  An  old 
cavalry  officer,  rough  in  speech,  but 
very  brave  and  honest,  of  good  under- 
standing, and  a  true  patriot.  {ShcuU 
well:  The  Volunteers.) 

Blurt  out  [To).  To  tell  something 
from  impulse  which  should  not  have 
been  told.  To  speak  incautiously,  or 
without  due  reflection.  Florio  makes 
the  distinction,  to  "  flurt  with  one's 
fingers,  and  blurt  with  one's  mouth." 

Blush.  At  the  first  Mush.  At  the 
first  glance  ;  speaking  off-hand  without 
having  given  the  subject  mature  deliber- 
ation. The  allusion  is  to  blushing  at 
some  sudden  or  unexpected  allusion  ; 
tlie  first  time  the  thought  has  flashed 
into  your  mind. 

'To  put  to  the  hlush.  To  make  one 
blush  with  shame,  annoyance,  or  con- 
fusion. 

"Enaland  mU'ht  bliisli  in  IGi'O,  wbeu  English- 
men n-L-iu  hied  at  a  fODl's  frown  [i.e.  James  ].],  but 
not  in  u;i!i,  wlieu  an  enraured  people  cutoff  liis 
son's  [Charles  1.]  head."— Tt'cudeii  PhiUips:  Ora- 
tions, p.  419. 

Bo  or  Boh,  in  old  Runic,  was  a  fierce 
Gothic  captain,  son  of  Odin.  His  name 
was  used  by  his  soldiers  when  they 
would  take  the  enemy  by  surprise.  [Ser 
William  Temple.) 


From  this  name  comes  our  Imjie,  a 
hobgoblin  or  little  Bo.  Gifford  Castle 
is  called  Bo  Hall,  being  said  to  have 
been  constructed  by  bogies  or  magic. 
Compare  Greek,  hoi,  bah  !  verb,  boao,  to 
shout  out ;  Latin,  hoo,  to  bellow  like  a 
bull  {bos) .    {Sec  Bogie.) 

You  cannot  say  Bo  !  to  a  goose— i.e. 
j'ou  are  a  coward  who  dare  not  say  bo  ! 
even  to  a  fool.  When  Ben  Jonsoii  was 
introduced  to  a  nobleman,  the  peer  was 
so  struck  with  his  homely  appearance 
that  he  exclaimed,  "What!  are  you 
Ben  Jonson  ?  Why,  you  look  as  if  you 
could  not  say  Bo !  to  a  goose."  "  Bo  I  " 
exclaimed  the  witty  dramatist,  turning 
to  the  peer  and  making  his  bow.  (Latin, 
bo-are;  Greek,  boa-ein,  to  cry  aloud.) 

Bo-tree.  A  corruption  of  bodhi  or 
bodhiritnia  (the  tree  of  wisdom),  under 
which  Sakyamuni  used  to  sit  when  he 
concocted  the  system  called  Buddhism. 

Boa.  riiuy  says  the  word  is  from 
bos  (a  cow),  and  aro.se  from  the  supposi- 
tion that  the  boa  sucked  the  milk  of 
cows. 

Boanerges  (sons  of  thunder).  A 
name  given  to  James  and  John,  the  sons 
of  Zeb'edee,  because  they  wanted  to  call 
down  "fire  from  heaveu "  to  consume 
the  Samaritans  for  not  "receiving"  the 
Lord  Jesus.  (Luke  ix.  54 ;  see  Mark 
iii.  17.) 

Boar.  The  Boar.  Richard  III.  ;  so 
called  from  his  cognisance. 

"  The  wretched,  hloody,  and  usurping  boar 
That  spoiled  your  summer  fields  and  fruitful 

vines ; 
.  .  .  This  foul  swine  .  .  .  lies  now  .  .  . 
Near  to  the  town  of  Leicester,  as  we  learn." 
Shakespeare :  Jikliard  III.,  v.  3. 

The  bristled  Baptist  hoar.  So  Drydeu 
denominates  the  Anabaptists  in  his  ITuul 
and  Panther. 

"  The  bristled  Baptist  boar,  impure  as  lie[f7ienpe], 
But  whitened  with  the  foam  of  sanctity, 
With  fat  pollutions  tilled  the  sacred  place. 
And  mountains  levelled  in  his  furious  race." 
Part  i.  43-0. 

The  u-ild  boar  of  Ardennes  [Ze  sanf/lier 
des  Ardennes'],  Guillaume,  Comte  de  la 
Marck,  so  called  because  he  was  fierce 
as  the  wild  boar,  which  he  delighted  to 
hunt.  Introduced  by  Sir  Walter  Scott 
as  William,  Count  of  la  Marck,  in  Qacn- 
tin  Durward. 

Boar  {The),  eaten  every  evening  in 
Valhalla  by  the  ^sir,  was  named  S^EH- 
RIMXIR.  It  was  eaten  every  evening 
and  next  morning  was  restored  whole 
again. 

Boar's  Flesh.  Buddha  died  from  a 
meal  of  dried  boar'' s  flesh,    Mr.  Sinnett 


Boar's  Head 


154 


Boaz 


tells  us  that  the  "  boar  "  referred  to  was 
the  boar  avatar  of  Vishnu,  aucl  that 
"  dried  boar's  flesh "  means  esoteric 
knowledge  prepared  for  pojjular  use. 
None  but  Buddha  himself  must  take 
the  responsibility  of  giving  out  occult 
secrets,  and  he  died  while  so  occupied, 
i.e.  in  preparing  for  the  general  esoteric 
knowledge.  The  protreptics  of  Jambh- 
cus  are  examjiles  of  similar  interpreta- 
tions. (See  Niiicti'oith  Coitunj,  June, 
1893,  p.  1021.) 

Boar's  Head.  [Tlie  Christmas  dish.] 
Freyr,  the  Scandiuavian  god  of  peace 
and  plenty,  used  to  ride  on  the  boar 
Gullinbm'sti ;  his  festival  was  held  at 
Yuletide  (^ivuitei-  solstice),  when  a  boar 
Avas  sacrificed  to  his  honour. 

The  Hoards  Head.  This  tavern,  made 
immortal  by  Shakespeare,  used  to  stand 
in  Eastcheap,  on  the  site  of  the  present 
statue  of  William  IV".  It  was  the  cog- 
nisance of  the  Gordons,  the  progenitor 
of  which  clan  slew,  in  the  forest  of 
Huntley,  a  wild  boar,  the  terror  of  all 
the  Merse  (lO'Jo). 

Board.  A  council  which  sits  at  a 
board  or  table  ;  as  "  Board  of  Directors," 
"  Board  of  Guardians,"  "School  Board," 
"  Board  of  Trade,"  etc.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
hord,  a  board,  table,  etc.) 

To  sweep  the  board.  To  win  and  carry 
off  all  the  stakes  in  a  game  of  cards. 

"2.  Board,  hi  sea  jjhrases,  is  all  that 
space  of  tlie  sea  which  a  ship  passes 
over  in  tackiug. 

Uii  board.  In  the  ship.  "  To  go  on 
board,"  to  enter  the  ship  or  other  sea 
vessel. 

Overboard.  Fallen  out  of  the  ship 
into  the  sea. 

To  board  a  ship  is  to  get  on  board  an 
enemy's  vessel. 

To  make  a  fjood  board.  To  make  a  good 
or  long  tack  in  beating  to  windward. 

To  make  a  short  board.  To  make  a 
short  tack.  "To  make  short  boards/' 
to  tack  frequently. 

To  make  a  stern  board.  To  sail  stern 
foremost. 

To  run  aboard  of.  To  run  foul  of 
[another  shij)]. 

3.  To  board.  To  feed  and  lodge  to- 
gether, is  taken  from  the  custom  of  the 
university  members,  etc.,  dining  together 
at  a  common  table  or  board. 

Board.    To  accost.    (French,  aborder, 
to  accost.) 
"  I'll  l)(iar(l  lier,  though  she  chide  as  loud 
As  thunder." 

Khakespeare :  Taming  of  the  Sltrciv,  i.  2, 
(See  also  Ilavilet,  ii.  2.) 


Board  of  Green  Cloth.  So  called 
because  the  lord  steward  and  his  board 
sat  at  a  table  covered  witli  green 
cloth.  It  existed  certainly  in  tlie  reign 
of  Henry  I.,  and  probably  earher,  and 
was  aboLshid  in  lSi9. 

"Board  of  t4re.en  Cloth,  June  l.'th,  1681.  Order 
was  this  day  given  that  the  JIaides  of  Honour 
should  have  cherry-tarts  instead  of  gooseiierry- 
tarts,  it  being  observed  that  cherrys  are  three- 
pence a  pound." 

Board  School  (A).  An  undenomi- 
national elemcntarj^  school  m  magcd  by 
a  School  Board,  ;aid  supiioited  by  a 
parliamentary  grant  collected  by  a  rate. 

Boarding  School.  /  am  going  to 
boarding  school.  Going  to  iirison  to  be 
taught  good  behaviotir. 

Boards.  He  is  on  the  boards,  i.e.  an 
actor  by  profession. 

Boast  (The).  The  vainglory,  the 
ostentation,  that  which  a  person  boasts 
of,  or  is  proud  of. 

"  The  lioast  of  herablry.  the  poni]i  of  power, 
Awaits  [sic]  alike  the  iucvitibli-  hour." 

(I'lKii :  The  Klfyy.  stanza  9. 

Boast  of  England  {The).  Tom 
Thumb  or  Tom-a-lin.  Richard  Johnson, 
in  1.599,  published  a  "history  of  this 
ever-renowned  soldier,  the  Red  Rose 
Knight,  surnamed  The  Boast  of  Eng- 
land, showing  his  honorable  victories  iu 
foreign  countries,  witli  his  strange  for- 
times  in  Fat-ry  Land,  and  how  he 
married  the  fair  Angliterra,  daughter  of 
Prester  John.  .  .  ." 

Boat.  Both  in  the  same  boat.  Both 
treated  alike ;  both  placed  in  the  same 
conditions.  The  reference  is  to  the  boat 
launched  when  a  ship  is  wrecked. 

To  be  rejiresented  in  a  boat  is  the 
ordinary  sj-mbol  of  apotheo'sis.  Many 
sovereigns  are  so  represented  on  coins. 

Boatswain.  The  officer  Avho  has 
charge  of  the  boats,  sails,  rigging,  an- 
chors, cordage,  cables,  and  colours. 
Swain  is  the  Saxon  swei)t  (a  boy,  ser- 
vant), Swedish  seen.  Hence,  a  shepherd 
is  a  swain,  and  a  sweetheart  is  a  woman's 
servant  or  swain. 

Boafsicain.  The  name  of  Byron's 
favourite  dog,  bui'ied  in  Newstaad  Abbey 
garden. 

Boaz  and  Jachin.  The  names  of  tlie 
two  brazen  jjillars  set  uj)  by  Solomon 
at  the  entrance  of  his  temple — Boaz 
(strength)  on  the  left  hand,  and  Jachin 
\stabiHtg)  on  the  right.    (1  Kings  vii.  21.) 

"Two  pillars  raising  by  their  skill  profound. 

lioaz  and  Jachin,  thro'  the  East  renowned." 

C'loWe.'  Borouyh. 


Bob 


155 


Bodkin 


Bob.  A  shilling.  A  "bender"  is  a 
sixpence.     (Compare  Bawbee.) 

Bob.  A  set  of  changes  rung  on  [church] 
bells:  as  a  "bob  major,"  a  "  bob- 
miuor,"  a  "triple  bob." 

To  (fire  the  bob  to  any  one.  To  deceive, 
to  balk.  This  word  is  a  corruption  of 
pop.  The  bob  of  a  i^enduluni  or 
mason's  plumb-line  is  the  weight  that 
pops  backwards  and  forwards.  The  bob 
of  a  fishing-line  pops  up  and  down  when 
iish  nibble  at  the  bait.  To  bob  for  apples 
or  cherries  is  to  tiy  and  catch  them 
while  they  swing  backwards  and  for- 
wards. As  this  is  ve-ry  decejitive,  it  is 
easy  to  see  how  the  word  signifies  to 
balk,  etc. 

To  hob  means  also  to  thump,  and  a  boh 
is  a  blow. 

'•  He  tlmt.  a  fnnl  ddtU  very  wisely  hit, 
Uoth  very  foolislily,  altliongh  lie  smart. 
Not  to  seem  senseless  of  the  bob." 

aiialcespeare :  As  Yvu  Like  It,  ii.  7. 

Bear  a  boh.  Be  brisk.  The  allusion 
is  to  bobbing  for  apples,  in  which  it 
requires  great  agility  and  quickness  to 
catch  the  apple. 

A  boh  H-'iff.  A  wig  in  which  the 
bottom  locks  are  turned  up  into  bobs  or 
short  curls. 

Bobadil.  A  military  braggart  of 
the  first  water.  Captain  Bobadil  is  a 
character  in  Ben  Jonson's  comedy  of 
IJrcri/  Jfaii  in  his  Hiunour.  This  name  was 
probably  suggested  by  Bobadilla,  first 
governor  of  Cuba,  who  sent  Columbus 
home  in  chains.     {See  Vincent.) 

"  Bobadil  is  the  author's  best  invention,  and  Is 
worthy  to  nian-h  in  the  same  regiment  with 
Bessus  and  Pistol,  Parolles,  and  the  Copper  Cap- 
tain" {q.i:).—n.  ir.  Procter. 

*.*  See  all  these  names  iu  their  ijrojjer 
jilaces. 

Bobbery,  as  "Kicking  up  a  bobbeiy,'' 
making  a  squabble  or  tumult,  kicking 
up  a  shindy.  It  is  much  used  in  India, 
and  Colonel  Yule  says  it  is  of  Indian 
origin. 

Bobbish.  I're/fi/  bohhish.  Pretty 
well  (in  spirits  and  health),  from  boh, 
brisk.  {See  above.)  A  very  ancient  ex- 
l^ression. 

Bobbit.  If  it  isn''t  u-eel  bobbit  ire^ll 
boh  it  again. '  If  it  is  not  done  well 
enough,  we  will  try  again.  To  bob  is  to 
dance,  and  literally  the  proverb  means, 
"  If  it  is  not  well  danced,  we  will  dance 
over  again." 

Bobby.  A  policeman  ;  so  called  be- 
cause Sir  Eobert  Peel    introduced   the 


force,     at    least    into     Ireland.       {See 
Peeler.) 

"  nut  oh  '  f,,r  llic  tirip  of  Ihe  bobby's  hand 
I'lmn  his  neck  that  dav," 

I'inich:  July  M,  Ks84. 

Boccus  {King).  A  kind  of  Solomon, 
who  not  only  drank  strong  poison  "iu 
the  name  of  the  Ti-inite  "  without  hurt ; 
but  also  answered  questions  of  wisdom, 
morality,  and  natural  science.  {The 
Hintoyi/  of  Kdifi  Boccus  and  Sydrack, 
from  the  French.) 

Dockland  or  Booldand.  Land  severed 
from  the  folclanJ,  and  converted  into  a 
private  estate  of  jierpetual  inheritance 
by  a  short  and  simple  deed  or  bock. 

Bod.  The  divinity  invoked  by  Indian 
women  who  desire  fecundity.  Children 
born  after  an  invocation  to  Bod  must  be 
redeemed,  or  else  serve  in  the  temple  of 
the  goddess.     {Indian  inijtholoy)/.) 

Boden-See.  The  Lake  of  Constance  ; 
so  called  because  it  lies  iu  the  Boden,  or 
low  country  at  the  foot  of  the  Al^is. 
(Latin,  Senas  Bodainici/s.) 

Bodies.  Compound  bodies,  in  chemi- 
cal phraseology,  mean  those  wliich  have 
two  or  more  simple  bodies  or  elements 
in  their  composition,  as  water. 

Simple  bodies,  in  chemical  jihrascology, 
mean  the  elements. 

The  Iiearenli/  bodies.  The  sun,  moon, 
stars,  and  so  on. 

The  sercn  bodies  (of  alchemists).  The 
seven  metals  supposed  to  correspond 
with  the  seven  ' '  planets. ' ' 

riaiiets.  lUiuls. 

].  Apollo,  or  the  rtun     (iold. 

•J.  Diana,  or  the  Moon Siher. 

3.  Mercury (Jiiicksilvcr. 

4.  Venus       Clipper. 

5.  Mars Iron. 

Ii.  Jupiter     Tin. 

T.Saturn       Lead. 

Bodkin.  A  dagger.  (Welsh,  bodogyn, 
a  small  dtigger.) 

Bodkin.  IVhcn  hie  himself  miyht  his 
qaietas  make  with  a  bare  bodkin  {Hamlet, 
iii.  1).  A  stiletto  worn  by  ladies  in  the 
hair,  not  a  dagger.  In  the  Seven  Cham- 
pions, Castria  took  her  silver  bodkin 
from  her  hair,  and  stabbed  to  death  first 
her  sister  and  then  herself.  Praxida 
stabbed  herself  in  a  similar  manner. 
Shakespeare  could  not  mean  that  a  man 
might  kill  himself  with  a  naked  dagger, 
but  that  even  a  hair-pin  would  suffice 
to  give  a  man  his  quietus. 

Bodkin.  To  ride  bodkin.  To  ride  iu 
a  carriage  between  two  others,  the  ac- 
commodation being  only  for  two. 

V  Dr.  Payne  says  that  l)0<lkin  iu  this 
sense  is    a    contraction   of    bodykiu,  c 


Bodle 


156 


Bogtrotters 


little  body,  -which  may  be  squeezed  into 
a  small  space. 

"  Tf  ydu  ran  bnakin  the  sweet  creature  into  the 
coa.c\\."— Gibbon. 

"There  is  hardly  rnoni  between  Jos  and  Miss 
Sharp,  who  are  on  the  front  seat,  5Ir.  Oslionie 
sittins  bodkin  opposite,  between  Captain  Dolibiu 
-and  Aiuelia."— T/mc/i^rfli/:  Vanity  Fair. 

Bodle.  A  Scotch  coin,  worth  the 
sixth  of  a  penny  ;  so  called  from  Both- 
well,  a  mint-master. 

"  Fair  play,  lie  car'd  na  deils  a  boddlc." 

Burns:  Tain  o'  Shanter,  line  ibi. 

To  cure  not  a  bodle  =z  our  English 
phrase,  "  Not  to  care  a  farthing." 

Bodle'ian  Library  (Oxford).  So 
called  because  it  was  restored  by  Sir 
Thomas  Bodley  in  1597. 

Body.     (Anglo-Saxon,  lod'ig.) 

A  nrjular  bodij,  in  geometry,  means 
one  of  the  five  regular  solids,  called 
"Platonic"  because  first  suggested  by 
Plato.     {See  Platonic  Bodies.) 

To  bod  1/ forth.  To  give  mental  shape 
to  an  ideal  form. 

"  Imat-'ination  bodies  forth 
The  forms  of  things  unknown." 

SlKikenped re  :  Midsiiiiimer  Night's  Dream,  v.  1. 

Body  and  Soul.  To  heep  bod;/  and 
sotil  toyetlier.  To  sustain  life  ;  from  the 
notion  that  the  soul  gives  life.  The 
Latni  animn,  and  the  Greek  psyche, 
mean  both  soul  and  life ;  and,  according 
to  Homeric  mythology,  the  departed 
sold  retains  the  shape  and  semblance 
of  the  body,  hence  the  notion  of  ghosts. 
Indeed,  if  the  soul  is  the  "principle  of 
life,"  it  must  of  necessity  be  the  fac- 
simile of  every  living  atom  of  the  body. 
{See  AsTEAL  Body.) 

Body-colour  {A).  Is  a  paint  con- 
taining a  body  or  consistency.  In  water- 
colours  it  is  mixed  with  white  lead  and 
laid  on  thicklj'. 

Body  Corporate  {A) .  An  aggregate 
of  individuals  legally  united  into  a  cor- 
poratio'.i. 

Body  Politic  {^l).  A  whole  nation 
consjderod  as  a  political  corporation  ;  the 
state.    In  Latin,  tot  inn  corpus  rcipubliecc. 

Body-snatcher  {A).  One  who 
snatches  or  imrloins  bodies,  newly 
buried,  to  sell  them  to  surgeons  for 
dissection.  By  a  play  on  the  words,  a 
bum-bailiff  was  so  called,  because  his 
duty  was  to  snatch  or  captm-e  the  body 
of  a  delinquent. 

V  The  first  instance  of  body-snatching 
on  record  was  in  1777.  It  was  the  body 
of  Mrs.  Jane  Sainsbury  from  the  burial 
ground  near  Gray's  Inn  Lane.  The 
men,  being  convicted,  were  imprisoned 
for  six  months. 


Boemond.  The  Christian  King  of 
Antioch,  who  tried  to  teach  his  subjects 
arts,  laws,  and  religion.  Pyrrhus  de- 
livered to  him  a  fort,  by  which  Antioch 
was  taken  by  the  Christians  after  an 
eight  months'  siege.  Boemond  and 
Eoge'ro  were  two  brothers,  the  sons  of 
Roberto  Guiscardo,  of  the  Norman  race. 
{Tds.io  :  Jerusalem  Belh'cred.) 

Bceo'tia.  According  to  fable  it  is 
so-called  because  Cadmus  was  conducted 
by  an  ox  (Greek  Jjou.'<)  to  the  spot  wliere 
he  built  Thebes ;  but,  according  to  fact, 
it  was  so  called  because  it  abounded  in 
cattle.     (Greek,  Bolotia.) 

Boeo'tian.  A  rude,  unlettered  person , 
a  dull  blockhead.  The  ancient  Buiotians 
loved  agricultural  and  pastoral  pursuits, 
so  the  Athenians  used  to  say  they  were 
dull  and  thick  as  their  own  atmosphere  ; 
yet  Hesiod,  Pindar,  Corinna,  Plutarch, 
Polop'idas,  and  Epaminondas,  were  all 
Bceotians. 

Boeo'tian  Ears.  Ears  unable  to  ap- 
preciate music  or  rhetoric. 

"  Well,  friend,  I  assure  thee  thou  hast  not  got 
Boeotian  ears  (because  yoit  can  appreriate  the 
beauties  of  my  sermous]."—  Le  &ige:  Gil  BUis, 
\  ii.  .■). 

Boe'thius.  Last  of  the  Latin  authors, 
properly  so  called  (470-524).  Alfred 
the  Great  translated  his  Be  Coiisolatio'ue 
l'hilosophi(c  into  Anglo-Saxon. 

Bogie.  A  scarecrow,  a  goblin.  (Bul- 
garian, bog,  a  god  ;  Slavonic,  bogn ; 
Welsh,  buy,  a  goblin,  our  bur/bear.) 

The  Assyrian  mothers  used  to  scare 
their  children  with  the  name  of  Narses 
{Gibbon)  ;  the  Syrians  with  that  of 
Richard  Coeur  de  Lion  ;  the  Dutch  with 
Boh,  the  Gothic  general  {Wnrton)  ;  the 
Jews  with  Lilith  ;  the  Turks  with 
Mathias  Corvi'nus,  the  Hungarian  king; 
and  the  English  with  the  name  of  Luns- 
iovt{q.v.).     {SecBo.) 

Bo'gio  (in  Orlando  Furioso).  One  of 
the  allies  of  Charlemagne.  He  promised 
his  wife  to  return  within  six  moons,  but 
was  slain  by  Dardiuello. 

Bogle  Swindle.  A  gigantic  swindle 
concocted  in  Paris  by  fourteen  persons, 
who  expected  to  net  at  least  a  nullion. 
sterling.     It  was  exposed  in  the  Times. 

Bogomili.  A  religious  sect  of  the 
twelfth  century,  whose  chief  seat  was 
Thrace.  So  called  from  their  constant 
repetition  of  the  words,  "  Lord,  have 
mercy  upon  us,"  which,  in  Bulgarian,  is 
hog  (Lord),  inilui  (have  mercy). 

Bogtrotters.  Irish  tramps ;  so  called 
from  their  skill  in  crossing   the  Irish 


Bogus 


157 


Bolognese  School 


bogs,  from  tussock  to  tussock,  either  as 
guides  or  to  escape  pursuit. 

Bogus.  Bogus  currency.  Forged  or 
sham  bills.  Bor/us  transactions.  Fraudu- 
lent transactions.  The  word  is  by  some 
connected  with  bogie. 

Iy)well  (Biglnio  Papers)  says, "I  more  than  sus- 
jiett  the  wui'd  to  be  a  corruption  of  the  Freuch 
liiifiasac" 

in  French  argot  is  another  word  (bogue\  the 
rind  of  a  green  chestnut,  or  case  of  a  watch  ;  a 
Imjjtus  chestnut  or  watch. 

Boheme  (La).  A  Bohemian,  that  is, 
one  living  on  his  wits,  such  as  a  jjenny- 
a-liner,  journalist,  politician,  artist, 
dancer,  or  in  fact  any  chevalier  of 
unsettled  habits  and  no  settled  home. 
From  the  Freuch,  Boldinieii,  a  gipsy. 

I'ue  i/iaisoit  cle  Bohcmc  means  a  house 
where  no  regularity  is  observed,  but  all 
things  are  at  sixes  and  sevens. 

Bohe'mia.  llie  Queen  of  Bohemia. 
A  public-house  sign  in  honour  of  Lady 
Elizabeth  Stuart,  daughter  of  James  I., 
who  was  married  to  Frederick,  elector 
lialatine,  for  whom  Bohemia  was  raised 
into  a  separate  kingdom.  It  is  through 
this  lady  that  the  Brunswick  family  suc- 
ceeded to  the  throne  of  Great  Britain. 

Bohemian.  A  gipsy,  an  impostor. 
The  first  gipsies  that  entered  France 
came  from  Bohemia,  and  appeared  before 
Paris  in  1427.  They  were  not  allowed  to 
enter  the  city,  but  were  lodged  at  La 
Chapelle  St.  Denis. 

A  slang  term  applied  to  literary  men 
and  artists  of  loose  and  irregular  habits, 
living  by  what  they  can  pick  up  by  their 
brains. 

■■  N'e\  ev  was  there  an  editor  with  less  about  him 
"f  tin-  litrr:iry  Bohemian.  A  strong  contrast  to 
Iii-i  unliapvy  coutciiiporary,  C'hatterton.''— /ort- 
iiii/lillij  h'liieir  :  r^i.-<tiiii  Letter. 

Bohemian  Brethren.  A  religious 
sect  formed  out  of  the  remnants  of  the 
Hussites.  They  arose  at  Prague  in  the 
fifteenth  century,  and  were  nicknamed 
Care-dircUcrs.  because  they  lurked  in 
caves  to  avoid  persecution. 

Bohemian  Life  {A).  An  irregular, 
restless  way  of  living,  Hke  that  of  a  gipsy. 

Bohort  {Sir).  A  knight  of  Arthur's 
Round  Table,  brother  of  Sir  Lionel,  and 
nephew  of  Lancelot  of  the  Lake.  Also 
called  Sir  Bors. 

Boi'es  (2  sj'l.).  Priests  of  the  savages 
of  Florida.  Each  priest  has  his  special 
idol,  which  must  be  invoked  by  the  fumes 
of  tobacco.  [American  Indian  m>jfholog>j.) 

Boiling-point.  He  was  at  boiling- 
piiiiit.  Very  angry  indeed.  Properly 
the  point  of  heat  at  which  water,  uuder 


ordinary  conditions,  boils.      (212'  Fah- 
renheit, 100=  Centigrade,  80'  Reaumur.) 

Boiley  or  Boihj.  Bread  soaked  in 
water.  A  word  used  in  baby-farming 
establishments  (French,  bouiUie).  (Pall 
Mall  Budget,  Aug.  22,  1889.) 

Boissere'an  Collection.  A  collec- 
tion at  Stuttgart  of  the  early  specimens 
of  German  art,  made  by  the  three 
brothers  Boisseree. 

Bo'lay  or  Boleg.  The  giant  which  the 
Indians  say  conquered  heaven,  earth,  and 
the  inferno.     {IiuUan  mgthohigg.) 

Bold.  Bold  as  Beauchamp  (Beech-um). 
It  is  said  that  Thomas  Beaiichamp,  Earl 
of  Warwick,  with  one  squire  and  six 
archers,  overthrew  100  armed  men  at 
Hogges,  in  Normandy,  in  1346. 

This  exploit  is  not  more  incredible 
than  that  attributed  to  Captal-de-Buch, 
who,  with  forty  followers,  cleared  Meaux 
of  the  insurgents  called  "  La  Jacquerie," 
7,000  of  whom  were  slain  by  this  little 
band,  or  tram2)led  to  death  in  tlie 
narrow  .streets  as  they  fled  panic-struck 
(13.58). 

Bold  as  brass.  Downright  imi)udent ; 
without  modesty.  Similarlj',  we  say 
"  brazen-faced." 

/  make  bold  to  sag.  I  take  the  liberty 
of  .saying  ;  I  vcntiu'e  to  say. 

Bole'rium  Promontory.  The  Land's 
End. 

Bole'ro.  A  Spanish  dance  ;  so  called 
from  the  name  of  the  inventor. 

Bolingbroke.  Henry  lY.  of  En^:- 
land  ;  so  called  from  Bolingbroke,  in 
Lincolnshire,  where  he  was  born.  (1366, 
1399-1413.) 

Bollandists.  Editors  of  the  Acta 
Sanrtoruiii  begun  by  John  Bolland  (1596- 
1665)  ;  the  sixty-first  folio  volume  was 
published  in  1875. 

BoUen.  Swollen.  (Anglo  -  Saxon, 
holla,  a  bowl.)  Hence  "joints  bolne- 
big  "  (Gokliiig),  and  '"bolne  in  pride" 
(Phaer).  The  seed  capsule  or  pod  of 
llax  is  called  a  "  boll." 

"TboliMvlev  was  in  the  ear,  and  the  flax  was 
boiled.'— E.\uil.ix.:il. 

Bolo'gna  Stone.  A  variety  of  barite, 
found  in  masses  near  Bologna.  After 
being  heated,  powdered,  and  exposed  to 
the  light  it  becomes  phosphorescent  in 
the  dark. 

Bolognese  School.  There  were  three 
periods  to  the  Bolognese  School  in  paint- 
ing— the  Early,  the  Roman,  and  the 
Eclectic.       The   first   was    founded    by 


Bolt 


158 


Bomb 


Marco  Zoppo,  in  the  fifteenth  centurj', 
and  its  best  exponent  was  Francia.  The 
second  was  founded  in  the  sixteenth 
century  by  Bagnacavallo,  and  its  chief 
exponents  were  Primatic'io,  Tibaldi,  and 
Nicole  dell'  Abate.  The  third  was 
founded  by  the  Carracci,  at  the  close  of 
the  sixteenth  century,  and  its  best 
masters  have  been  Domenichi'no,  Lan- 
franco,  Guido,  Schido'ne,  Guerci'no,  and 
Alba'ui. 

Bolt.  An  arrow,  a  shaft  (Anglo - 
Saxon,  holfa  ;  Danish,  bolt ;  Greek,  hallo, 
to  cast ;  Latin,  jjcUo,  to  drive).  A  door 
bolt  is  a  shaft  of  wood  or  iron,  which 
may  be  shot  or  driven  forward  to  secure 
a  door.  A  thunderbolt  is  an  hyijothetical 
shaft  cast  from  the  clouds  ;  an  aerolite. 
CupuVs  bolt  is  Cuj^id's  arrow. 

The  fooVs  holt  is  soon  spent.  A  foolish 
archer  shoots  all  his  arrows  so  heedlessly 
that  he  leaves  himself  no  resovu'ces  in 
case  of  need. 

/  mutit  bolt.     Be  off  like  an  arrow. 

To  bolt  food.  To  swallow  it  quickly 
without  waiting  to  chew  it. 

To  bjlt  out  the  truth.  To  blurt  it  out ; 
also  To  bolt  out,  to  exclude  or  shut  out 
by  bolting  the  door. 

To  bolt.  To  sift,  as  flour  is  bolted. 
This  has  a  different  derivation  to  the 
above  (Low  Latin,  bult-ella,  a  boulter, 
from  an  Old  French  word  for  coarse 
cloth). 

"  1  ciiimot  liolt  tbis  matter  to  the  brau, 
As  Bradwaiden  and  holy  Austin  can." 

J)ru(lea's  version  of  the  Cock  and  Fux. 

Bolt  from  the  Blue  (A).     There  fell 
(t   holt  from    the    blue.     A  sudden  aud 
wholly  unexpected  catastrophe  or  event 
occurred,  like  a  " thunderbolt''  from  the 
blue  sky,  or  flash  of  lightning  without 
warning  and  wholly  imexpected. 
".Namque  Diespiter 
Isni  corusco  nubila  dividens, 
Plei'imKU'e.  pel"  purum  tonantes 
Egit  eqiios  volucrenniiie  currura.  .  .  ." 

Horace:  1  Ode  xxxiv.  5, etc. 
"  On  Monday.  Dec.  i:2nd  [ISW],  there  fell  a  bolt 
from  the  blue.    The  nionuu'.'  iiapers  announced 
that  the  men  were  out  [nn  ^inke}."— Nineteenth 
Centary,  Feln-uary,  IS'JI,  p.  -Jo. 

V  In  this  phrase  the  word  "  bolt  "  is 
used  in  the  po^iular  sense  for  lightning, 
the  JjaXiu  filinen,  the  Tveiich  fondre  and 
tonnerre,  in  English  sometimes  for  an 
aerolite.  Of  course,  in  strict  scientific 
language,  a  flash  of  lightning  is  not  a 
thunderbolt.  Metaphoricallj%  it  means 
a  sudden  and  wholly  unexpected  catas- 
trophe, like  a  thunderbolt  [flash  of 
lightning]  from  a  blue  or  serene  sky. 

German:  Wieein  Blitzstrahlausblaueni  Aether. 

ItalMii:  Conime  un  fulmine  a  ciel  sereno. 

Ldthi:  Audiit  et  cieli  genitor  de  iwrtc  sereua 
intouuit  Uuvum.    CViryil :  ..Hiiekl,  ix.  esu.) 


Bolt  in  Tun,  a  public-house  sign, 
is  heraldic.  In  heraldry  it  is  applied  to 
a  bird- bolt,  in  pale,  piercing  tlirough  a 
tun.  The  punning  crest  of  Serjeant 
Bolton,  who  died  17^7,  was  "  on  a  wreath 
a  tun  erect  i)roper,  transpierced  by  an 
arrow  f  esse  ways  or."  Another  family 
of  the  same  name  has  for  crest  "a  tun 
with  a  bird-bolt  through  it  projier. "  A 
third,  harping  on  the  same  string,  has  "  a 
bolt  gules  in  a  tun  or."  The  public- 
house  sign  distinguished  by  this  device 
or  name  adopted  it  in  honour  of  some 
family  claiming  one  of  the  devices  men- 
tioned above. 

Bolt  Upright.  Straight  as  an  arrow. 
A  bolt  is  an  arrow  with  a  round  knob  at 
the  end,  used  for  shooting  at  rooks,  etc. 

Bolted.     JBolted  out.     Either  ran  off 

suddenly,  or  being  barred  out  of  the 
house. 

The  horse  bolted.  The  horse  shot  off 
like  a  bolt  or  arrow. 

Bolted  Arrow.  A  blunt  arrow  for 
shooting  young  rooks  with  a  cross-bow  ; 
called  "  bolting  rooks."  A  gun  would 
not  do,  and  an  arrow  would  mangle  the 
little  things  too  much. 

Bolton.  T/ic  Bolton  Jss.  This  crea- 
ture is  said  to  have  chewed  tobacco  and 
taken  snuff.     {l)r.  Boreui.) 

Bate  me  an  aec,  rjuoth  Bolton.  Give 
me  some  advantage.  What  you  say 
must  be  quaUfled,  as  it  is  too  strong. 
Ray  says  that  a  collection  of  proverbs 
were  once  presented  to  the  Virgin  Queen, 
with  the  assurance  that  it  contained  all 
the  proverbs  in  the  language  ;  but  the 
Queen  rebuked  the  boaster  with  the  pro- 
verb, "  Bate  me  an  ace,  quoth  Bolton," 
a  proverb  omitted  in  the  comj)ilation. 
John  Bolton  was  one  of  the  courtiers 
who  used  to  play  cards  and  dice  with 
Henry  YIII.,  aud  flattered  the  king  by 
asking  him  to  allow  him  an  aee  or  some 
advantage  in  the  game. 

Bolus.  An  apothecarj'.  Apothecaries 
are  so  called  because  they  administer 
holuscs.  Similarly  Mrs.  Suds  is  a  washer- 
woman ;  Boots  is  the  shoeblack  of  an 
inn,  etc. 

George  Colman  adopts  the  name  for 
his  apothecary,  who  wi'ote  his  labels  in 
rhyme,  one  of  which  was — 

"  When  taken, 
To  be  well  shaken  "  ; 

but  the  patient  being  shaken,  instead  of 
the  mixture,  died. 

Bomb.  A  shell  filled  with  gunpowder. 
(Greek,    boinbos ;    Latin,    boDibits,     any 


Bomba 


159 


Bone 


deep  noise.  Thus  Fcsiies  says:  "  Boiii- 
bus,  soiiiis  non  apixm  Utntum,  aut  pocidi 
hilbieutis,  scd  etidin  toi/itnh.''''  And 
Catullus  applies  it  to  the  blast  of  a  trum- 
pet, '•'  fjlhtbaiit  conuia  hoinbis,''''  Ixiv.  263.) 

Bomba.  Kiiiff  Bomba.  A  nickname 
given  to  Ferdinand  II.,  King  of  Naples, 
in  consequence  of  his  cruel  bombard- 
ment of  Messi'na  in  1848,  m  which  the 
slaughter  and  destruction  of  property- 
was  most  wanton. 

Bomba  II.  was  the  nickname  given  to 
his  son  Francis  II.  for  bombarding  Pa- 
lermo in  1860.  He  was  also  called 
Bombali'no  (Little  Bomba). 

Another  meaning  equally  applicable  is 
Vox  ct  prcctcr'ca  nihil,  Bomba  being  the 
explosion  made  by  puffing  out  the  cheeks, 
ami  causing  them  suddenly  to  collapse. 
Liar,  break-promise,  worthless. 

Bombast  literally  means  the  produce 
of  the  bombyx  (Middle  Latin  bomhax, 
Greek  bombH.r),  and  applied  to  cotton- 
wool used  for  padding.  The  head  of  the 
cotton  plant  was  called  ' '  bombast ' '  or 
"bombace''  in  the  sixteenth  century. 
Bombast  was  much  used  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  VIII.  for  padding,  and  hence  in- 
flated language  was  so  called. 
"  We  liave  received  your  letters  full  of  love,  .  .  . 

And  in  our  njaideu  council  rated  them  .  .  . 

j\s  hoiiilia^t  and  as  lining-  to  tbe  time." 

iS7(((/.<:s;)<'occ;  Love's  Labour's  Lost,  v.  "J. 

Bombastes    Furio'so.      One    who 

talks  big  and  uses  long  sesquipedalian 
words ;  the  ideal  of  bombast.  He  is 
the  hero  of  a  burlesque  opera  so  called, 
by  William  Barnes  Ehodes.     (1790.) 

Bombas'tus.      The  family  name    of 
Am-eolus    Paracelsus   (1-193-1541).      He 
is    said    to    have    kept   a    small    devil 
prisoner  in  the  pommel  of  his  sword. 
"  Bombastus  kept  a  devil's  bird 
Shut  in  the  i>omniel  of  his  sword,   ■ 
That  tauf-'ht  him  all  the  cunninpr  rranks 
Of  past  and  future  moiinreiianks." 

8.  Butler:  Hudibras,  part  ii. .'). 

Bon  Gaultier  Ballads.  Parodies 
of  modem  poetry  by  "W.  E.  Aytouu  and 
Theodore  Martin  (Sir). 

Bon  gr6  mal  gr6.    Willing  or  un- 

williug,  willy  nilly,  nolens  vohns. 

Bon  Mot  (French).  A  good  or  witty 
saying  ;  a  jam ;  a  clever  rejiartee. 

Bon  Ton  (French).  Good  manners, 
or  manners  accredited  by  good  society. 

Bon  Vivant  (French) .  A  free  liver ; 
one  who  indulges  in  the  "  good  things  of 
the  table." 

Bona  Fide.  Without  subterfuge  or 
deception  ;  really  and  truly.  Literally, 
ill  good  faith  (Latin). 


Bona-ro'ba.  A  courtesan  (Italian) ; 
so  called  from  the  smartness  of  their 
robes  or  dresses. 

"  We  knew  where  the  bona-robas  were." 
Sliukespeure:  'Z  Henry  IV.,  iii.  2. 

Bonduca  =  Boadicea.  {F/etcher^s 
Trarjcdi/,  1647.) 

Bone.  Brcdinthebonc.  Apartof one's 
nature.  "  What's  bred  in  the  bone  will 
come  out  in  the  flesh."  A  natural  pro- 
pensity cannot  be  repressed.  Xntnraiii 
jitrcd  c.rjHi/'is,  atttcm  asqnc  redibit. 

Bone  in  my  Tbroat.  /  have  a  bone 
in  in//  throat.  1  cannot  talk;  I  cannot 
answer  your  question. 

/  hare  a  bone  in  my  Icr/.  An  excuse 
given  to  children  for  not  moving  from 
one's  seat.  Similarly,  "I  have  a  bone 
in  my  arm,"  and  must  be  excused  using 
it  for  the  i:>resent. 

Bone  of  Contention.  A  disputed 
jioint ;  a  point  not  yet  settled.  The 
meta2)hor  is  taken  from  the  proverb 
about  "Two  dogs  fighting  for  a  bone," 
etc. 

Bones.  Deuca'lion,  after  the  Deluge, 
was  ordered  to  cast  behind  him  the  bones 
of  his  mother,  i.e.  the  stones  of  mother 
earth.  Those  thrown  by  Deuca'lion  be- 
came men,  and  those  thrown  by  his  wife, 
Pyrrha,  became  women. 

Pindar  suggests  that  laas,s,  stone,  is  a  pun  on 
Uios,  the  people.  Both  words,  in  the  /senitive 
case  singular,  are  alike  lami.    ((Jlynthies,  fx.  CO.) 

BOiie  to  pick  {A).  A  sop  to  Cer- 
bSrus.  A  lucrative  appointment  given 
to  a  troublesome  opponent  iu  order  to 
silence  him.  Thus  Chisholra  Anstcy  was 
sent  to  Hong-Kong  as  a  judge  to  keep 
him  away  from  the  House  of  Commons. 
Of  course  the  allusion  is  to  throwing  a 
bone  to  a  dog  barking  at  you. 

"  In  those  rtay.s  the  usual  plan  to  get  rid  of  an 
oratorical  patriot  in  the  House  was  to  give  him 
'  a  l)one  to  pick.'  "—Anihoni/  Collins. 

I  hare  a  bone  to  pick  u-ith  you.  An 
unpleasant  matter  to  settle  with  you.  At 
the  marriage  banquets  of  the  Sicilian 
poor,  the  bride's  father,  after  the  meal, 
used  to  hand  the  bridegroom  a  bone, 
saymg,  "Pick  this  bone,  for  you  have 
taken  in  hand  a  much  harder  task." 

Bone.  {See  Albadaka  ;  Luz ;  Os 
Saceum.) 

Bone  [To).  To  filch,  as,  /  boned  it. 
Shakespeare  ('2  Henry  VI.,  act  i.  3)  says, 
"By  these  ten  bones,  my  lord  .  .  ." 
meaning  his  ten  fingers  ;  and  {Hamlet, 
iii.  2)  calls  the  fingers  "pickers  and 
stealers."  Putting  the  two  together, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  "to  bone" 


Bone-grubber 


160 


Bonnet 


means  to  finger,  that  is,  "to  pick  and 
steal." 

"  You  thnuKlit  that  I  was  buried  deep 
Quite  deceut-like  aud  chary, 
But.  frnni  her  Krave  iu  Mary-bone, 
They've  come  and  honed  your  Mary  I" 

llood:  Mary's  Ghost. 

Bone-grubber  {A).  A  person  who 
grubs  about  dust-bins,  gutters,  etc.,  for 
refuse  bones,  which  he  sells  to  bone- 
griuders,  and  other  dealers  iu  such  stores. 

Bone-lace.     Lace  woven  on  bobbins 

made  of  trotter-bones. 

Bone-shaker  {A).  A  four-wheel 
cab  ;  also  an  old  bicycle. 

"  A  good  swift  hansom  is  worth  twice  as  much 
as  a  '  bone-shaker '  any  day."— A'ineteenJ/i  Cc7i- 
tury,  March,  ISUS,  ii.  473. 

Boned.  /  boned  him.  Caught  or 
seized  him.     {See  above,  To  Bone.) 

Bones.  Tlie  man  who  rattles  or  plays 
the  bones  in  nigger  troupes. 

To  Diakc  no  bunes  ((boiU  the  matter,  i.e. 
no  difficulty,  no  scruple.  Dice  are  called 
'"bones,"  and  the  Yxenc\i,  flatter  le  de 
(to  mince  the  matter) ,  is  the  opposite  of 
our  expression.  To  make  no  bones  of  a 
thing  is  not  to  flatter,  or  "make  much 
of,"  or  humour  the  dice  in  order  to  show 
favour. 

Napier'' s  bones.     (See  tinder  Napiee.) 

jntJiout  more  bones.  Without  further 
scruple  or  objection.  {See  above,  "  Make 
no  bones,''''  etc.) 

Bonese  (2  syl.).  The  inhabitants  of 
Bo'ui,  one  of  the  Celebes. 

Bonfire.  L/nisossium.  T'heAthentvam 
shows  that  tlie  word  means  a  fire  made 
of  bones;  one  quotation  ruus  thus,  "In 
the  worship  of  St.  John,  the  people  .  .  . 
made  three  manner  of  fires  :  one  was  of 
clean  bones  and  no  wood,  aud  that  is 
called  a  bonefire ;  another  of  clean  wood 
and  no  bones,  and  that  is  called  a  wood- 
fire  .  .  .  aud  the  third  is  made  of  wood 
and  bones,  and  is  called  '  St.  John's 
fii"e'"  {Qaataor  Sermones,  1499).  Cer- 
tainly bone  (Scotch,  bane)  is  the  more 
ancient  way  of  spelling  the  first  syllable 
of  the  word  ;  but  some  suggest  that 
"  bon-fire  "  is  really  "boon-fire." 

"  In  some  parts  of  Lincolnshire  .  .  .  they  make 
fires  in  the  public  streuts  .  .  .  with  bones  of  oxen, 
sheep,  etc.  .  .  .  heaped  together  .  .  .  hence  came 
the  origin  of  liontlies."— ie/oHcJ,  1352. 

'.*  Whatever  the  origin  of  the  word,  it 
has  long  been  used  to  signify  either  a 
beacon  fire,  or  a  boon  fire,  i.e.  a  fire  ex- 
pressive of  joy.  We  often  find  the  word 
spelt  "  bane-tire,"  where  bane  may  mean 
"bone"  or  beacon.  We'sh  ban,  lofty; 
allied  to  the  Norwegian  baa)i,  a  beacon 
or  cresset. 


Bon'homie'.  Iviudness,  good  nature ; 
free  and  easj'  manners  ;  cordial  benevo- 
lence.    (French.) 

"  I  never  knew  a 
bnnhoiiiie  was  iiifi 
Joiirnc.n,  chap.  vi. 

Bonhomme  ( f ';/) .  A  goody  man  ; 
according  to  Dr.  Young's  line,  "What 
is  mere  good  nature,  but  a  fool  ?  "  The 
word,  divided  into  two,  is  used  in  a  good 
sense,  as  £tre  nn  bon  honime.  Jaeqaes 
Bonhonnne  means  a  peasant. 

Jacques  Bonhomme  (French).  A  peas- 
ant who  ventures  to  interfere  iu  politics. 
Hence,  the  peasants'  rebellion  in  1358 
was  called  La  Jcwqaerie.  The  term 
means  "James  Goodfellow";  we  also 
often  address  the  poor  as  "My  good 
fellow." 

Boniface.  A  sleek,  good-tempered, 
jolly  landlord.  From  Farqidiar's  comedy 
of  The  Beaux^  Stratagem. 

"  A  regular  British  Boniface."— T/ic  John  Dull. 

St.  Boniface.  The  apostle  of  Germany, 
an  Anglo-Saxon  whose  original  name 
was  JJ'inifrid  or  Winfrith.     (680-750.) 

St.  Buniface''s  cap.  An  extra  cup  of 
wine  (to  the  health  of  the  Pope).  Pope 
Boniface,  we  are  told  in  the  Ebrietatis 
Encomiain,  instituted  an  indulgence  to 
those  who  drank  his  good  health  after 
grace,  or  the  health  of  the  Pope  of  the 
time  being.  An  excuse  for  an  extra 
glass. 

Bonne  (French).  A  nursemaid,  a 
nursery  governess. 

Bonne  Bouche  {A).  A  delicious 
morsel  ;  a  tit-bit  (tid-bit). 

"  Now  I'll  give  yon  a  real  bointc-hovrhc  This  is 
a  liotllc  of  the  lamous  comet  port  of  \s\\."—The 
E)iicarc. 

Bonnet.  A  pretended  player  at  a 
gamiug-table,  or  bidder  at  an  auction, 
to  lure  others  to  play  ;  so  called  because 
he  blinds  the  eyes  of  his  dupes,  just  as 
if  he  had  struck  their  bonnet  over  their 
eyes. 

"  A  man  who  sits  at  a  gaming  table, and  appears 
to  be  playing  against  the  table  ;  when  a  stranger 
appears  the  Bonnet  generally  wins."— I'/ie  Times. 

Bonnet. 

Braid  Bonnet.  The  old  Scotch  cap, 
made  of  milled  woollen,  without  seam  or 
lining. 

Glenf/arri/  Bonnet.  The  Highland  bon- 
net, wiiich  rises  to  a  point  iu  front. 

Me  has  a  green  bonnet.  Has  failed  in 
trade.  In  France  it  used  to  be  custom- 
ary, even  in  the  seventeenth  ceutury,  for 
bankrupts  to  wear  a  green  bonnet  (cloth 
cap) . 

Jle  has  a  bee  in  his  bonnet,    {See  Bee,) 


Bonnet    Lairds 


161 


Book 


Bonnet  Lairds.  Local  magnates  of 
Scotland,  who  wore  the  Braid  Bounet. 

Bonnet-piece.  A  gold  coin  of  James 
V.  of  Scotland,  the  king's  head  on  which 
wears  a  bonnet. 

Bonnet    Rouge.     The    red    cap    of 

Liberty  worn  by  the  leaders  of  the 
French  revolution.  It  is  the  emblem  of 
Ked  Eepublicanism. 

Bonnie  Dundee.  John  Graham,  of 
Claverhouse,  Viscount  Duudee  (16.50- 
1G89). 

Bonnyclabber.  A  drink  made  of 
beer  and  buttermilk.  (Irish,  launic, 
milk  ;  claba,  thick  or  thickened.) 

"  With  lieer  and  butterniilk,  mingled  togetber,  .  . 
To  drink  such  .  .  .  txmuy-claiiper." 

Ben  Joiisnn :  The  Xeiv  Inn,  i.  3. 

Bono  Johnny.  John  Bull  is  so 
called  in  the  East  Indies. 

Bontemps.  Roger  Bonteitips  (French). 
The  personification  of  "  Xever  say  die." 
The  phrase  is  from  Beranger. 

"  Vous  paiivres,  pleins  d'envie  ; 

Vous  riches,  desireux  ; 
Vous,  dont  le  cliar  devie 

Api'es  un  cours  heureiix  ; 
Vdus,  qui  perdrez  peut-etre 

Des  litres  eclatans. 
Ell !  gai  !  prenez  pour  niaitre 

Le  gros  Roger  Bonte:ups."    Be'rcm'jer. 

Ye  pool',  with  envy  goaded  ; 

Ye  rich,  for  more  who  hing  ; 
Ye  who  by  fortune  loaded. 

Find  all  things  going  wrong 
Ye  who  by  some  disaster 

See  all  your  cables  break. 
From  henceforth  for  your  master 

Bluff  Roger  Bontemps  take. 

F.  C.  B. 

Bonus.  A  bounty  over  and  above 
the  interest  of  a  share  in  any  compaiij'. 
(Latin,  boii/is  quastus,  a  good  profit  or 
bounty.  The  interest  or  fruit  of  money 
put  out  in  an  investment  was  by  the 
Eomans  called  the  qucpsfiis.) 

Bonus  Ilomerus.     {See  HoMEE.) 

Bonzes  (sing.  Boii'ze) .  Indian  priests. 
In  China  they  are  the  priests  of  the 
Fohists ;  their  number  is  .50,000,  and 
they  are  represented  as  idle  and  dis- 
solute. In  Japan  they  are  men  of  rank 
and  family.  In  Touquin  every  pagoda 
has  at  least  two  bonzes,  and  some  as 
many  as  fifty. 

Booby.  A  spiritless  fool,  who  suffers 
himself  to  be  imposed  upon.  In  Eng- 
land the  Solan  goose  is  called  a  booby  or 
noddy.     (Spanish,  boho  ;  Gennan,  bube.) 

A  boohij  iciU  never  make  a  hawk.  The 
bii'd  called  the  boobj' ,  that  allows  itself 
to  be  fleeced  by  other  birds,  will  never 
become  a  bird  of  prey  itself. 

11 


Booby  {Ladij).  A  caricature  on 
Richardson's  Pam'ela.  A  vulgar  upstart, 
who  tries  to  seduce  Joseph  Andrews. 
{FicMmff :  Joseph  Andrews.) 

Booby-trap  {A) .  A  pitcher  of  water, 
book,  or  something  else,  balanced  gin- 
gerly on  the  top  of  a  door  set  ajar,  so 
that  when  the  booby  or  victim  is  enticed 
to  pass  through  the  door,  the  iDitcher  or 
book  falls  on  him. 

Book  (Aug. -Saxon,  ioc,- Danish,  beiike; 
Gennan,  biiche.  a  beech-tree).     Beech- 
bark  was  employed  for  carving  names 
on  before  the  invention  of  printing. 
"  Here  on  my  trunk's  surviving  frame, 
Carved  many  a  long-forgotti'ii  name.  .  . 
As  love's  own  altar,  honnur  me  : 
Spare,  woodman,  spare  the  beechen  tree." 
Campbell:  Beech  Tree's  Petition. 

Book.  The  dearest  ever  sold.  A 
Mazarin  Bible  at  the  Thorold  sale,  in 
1884,  bought  by  Mr.  Quaritch,  book- 
seller, Piccadilly,  London,  for  £'o,900. 
In  1873  Lord  Ashburnham  gave  £3,400 
for  a  copy. 

Book.  The  oldest  in  the  xeorld.  That 
bj'  Ptah-Hotep,  the  Egyptian,  compiled 
ill  the  reign  of  Assa,  about  B.C.  .3366. 
This  MS.  is  preserved  in  the  Bibliothe- 
que  Nationale  in  Paris.  It  is  written 
on  pafiyrus  in  hieratic  characters,  and  is 
a  compilation  of  moral,  political,  and 
religious  aphorisms.  It  strongly  insists 
on  reverence  to  women,  politeness,  and 
monothei-sm.  Ptiih-HoteiJ  was  a  prince 
of  the  blood,  and  lived  to  the  age  of  110 
years. 

Book.  Logistilla  gave  Astolpho,  at 
parting,  a  book  which  would  tell  him 
anything  he  wanted  to  know,  and  save 
him  from  the  power  of  enchantment. 
{Ariosfo  :  Orlando  Furioso,  book  viii  ) 

Betvare  of  a  man  of  one  book.  Never 
attempt  to  controvert  the  statement  of 
any  one  in  his  own  special  subject.  A 
shepherd  who  cannot  read  will  know 
more  about  sheep  than  the  wisest  book- 
worm. This  caution  is  given  by  St. 
Thomas  Aqui'nas. 

That  does  not  suit  mij  book.  Does  not 
accord  with  my  aiTangements.  The 
reference  is  to  betting-books,  in  which 
the  bets  are  formally  entered. 

To  bring  him  to  book.  To  make  him 
prove  his  words  ;  to  call  him  to  account. 
Make  him  show  that  what  he  says 
accords  with  what  is  written  down  in 
the  indentures,  the  written  agreement, 
or  the  book  which  treats  of  the  subject. 

To  book  it.  To  take  down  an  order ; 
to  make  a  memorandum ;  to  enter  in  a 
book. 

I'o  speak  hij  the  book.     With  minute 


Book  of  Books 


1G2 


Boots 


exactness.  To  speak  literatim,  accord- 
ing to  what  is  in  the  book. 

To  speak  like  a  hook.  To  sj^eak  with 
great  precision  and  accuracy  ;  to  be  full 
of  information. 

To  speak  icithout  hook.  Without  au- 
thority ;  from  memory  only,  without 
consulting  or  referring  to  the  book. 

Bell,  hook,  and  candle.  {See  iiinlcrBELL.) 

Book  of  Books  {Tke).    The  Bible. 

Book  of  Life  (Tkc).  In  Bible  lan- 
guage, is  a  register  of  tlie  names  of  those 
who  are  to  inherit  eternal  life.  (Phil. 
iv.  3  ;  Eev.  xx.  12.) 

Books. 

JTe  is  in  nil/  hooks,  or  in  m;/  good  hooks. 
The  former  is  the  older  form ;  both 
mean  to  be  in  favovn*.  The  word  book 
was  at  one  time  used  more  widely,  a 
single  sheet,  or  even  a  list  being  called  a 
book.  To  be  in  my  books  is  to  be  on 
my  list  of  friends. 

"  I  was  so  iiiucli  in  his  bonks,  that  at  his  decease 
lie  left  me  bis  lamii."— .-l(/(/(.«ore. 

"If  you  want  to  keep  in  lier  good  books,  don't 
call  her  '  the  old  lady.'  "—Dickens. 

He  is  in  mij  hhick  (or  had)  hooks.  In 
disfavour.     {See  Black  Books.) 

On  the  hooks.     On  the  list  of  a  club,  on 
the  list  of  candidates,    on   the    list  of 
voters,  etc. 
".'  In  the  universities  we  say,  "on  the  lioards." 

Out  of  my  hooks.  Not  in  favour  ;  no 
longer  in  my  list  of  fiiends. 

The  battle  of  the  hooks.  The  Boyle 
controversy  {(j.r.).     {Sec  Battle.) 

To  take  one^s  name  off  the  books.  To 
withdi'aw  from  a  club.  In  the  passive 
voice  it  means  to  be  excluded,  or  no 
longer  admissible  to  enjoy  the  benefits 
of  the  institution.  The  university  phrases 
are  ' '  to  keej)  my  name  on  the  boards ' '  ; 
"  to  take  my  name  ofE  the  boards,"  etc. 

Book-keeper.  One  who  borrows 
books,  but  does  not  return  them. 

Book-keeping.  The  system  of  keep- 
ing the  debtor  and  creditor  accounts 
of  merchants  in  books  provided  for  the 
purpose,  either  by  single  or  by  double 
entry. 

Waste-hook.  A  book  in  which  items 
are  not  posted  under  heads,  but  are  left 
at  random,  as  each  transaction  occurred. 

Day-book.  A  book  in  which  are  set 
down  the  debits  and  credits  which  occur 
day  by  day.  These  are  ultimately  sorted 
into  the  ledger. 

Ledger  (Dutch,  legcn,  to  lay).  The 
book  which  is  laid  up  in  counting-houses. 
In  the   ledger  the  different  items  are 


regularly  sorted  according  to  the  system 
in  use.    (Ledgek-lines.) 

By  single  entry.  Book  -  keeping  in 
which  each  debit  or  credit  is  entered 
only  once  into  the  ledger,  either  as  a 
debit  or  credit  item,  under  the  cus- 
tomer's or  salesman's  name. 

By  doable  entry.  By  which  each 
item  is  entered  twice  into  the  ledger, 
once  on  the  debit  and  once  on  the  credit 
side. 

Bookworm.  One  always  ijoringover 
liis  books  ;  so  called  in  allusion  to  tlie 
insect  that  eats  holes  in  books,  and  lives 
both  in  and  on  its  leaves. 

Boom.  A  sudden  and  great  demand 
of  a  tiling,  with  a  corresijonding  rise  in 
its  price.  The  rush  of  a  ship  under 
press  of  sail.  The  word  arises  from  the 
sound  of  booming  or  rushing  water. 

"  The  lio.ini  was  somethiner  wonderful.  Every- 
body bouKlit,  everybody  sold."— Jfaj-fc  Twain: 
Lifi-  on  the  Mississippi,  chap.  57. 

Boom-Passenger  {A).  A  convict 
on  board  ship,  who  was  chained  to  the 
boom  when  made  to  take  his  daily 
exercise. 

Boon  Companion  {A).  A  convivial 
companion.  A  ho/i  rirant  is  one  fond 
of  good  living.  "Who  leads  a  good 
Hfe  is  sure  to  live  well."  (French,  hon, 
good.) 

Boot.  licill  give  you  that  to  hoot,  i.e. 
in  addition.  The  Anglo-Saxon  boot  or 
hot  means  "compensation."  (Gothic, 
hota,  profit.) 

"As  anyone  shall  be  more  powerful  ....  or 
higher  in  degree,  shall  he  the  more  deeply  irake 
boot  for  sin,  and  pay  for  every  misdeed."— iaics 
of  King  Ethelrcd. 

Boot-jack.    {See  under  Jack.) 

Boots.  Seren  -  leagued  hoots.  The 
boots  worn  by  the  giant  in  the  fairy  tale, 
called  Tlie  Seven-leagued  Boots.  These 
boots  would  stride  over  seven  leagues  at 
a  pace. 

I  measure  fvc  feet  ten  inches  icithout  my 
hoots.  The  allusion  is  to  the  chopine  or 
high-heeled  boot,  worn  at  one  time  to 
increase  the  stature.  Hamlet  says  of  the 
lady  actress,  "You  are  nearer  heaven 
than  when  I  saw  you  last,  by  the  altitude 
of  a  chopine."     (ii.  2.) 

Boots  (an  instrument  of  torture). 
They  were  made  of  four  ])ieces  of  narrow 
board  nailed  together,  of  a  competent 
length  to  fit  the  leg.  The  leg  being 
placed  therein,  wedges  were  inserted  till 
the  sufferer  confessed  or  fainted. 

"  All  your  empirics  could  never  do  the  like  cure 
upon  tlie  gout  as  the  rack  in  England  or  your 
Scotch  boots."— iUdcrfoii ;  The  Malcontent. 


Boots 


163 


Bore 


Boots.  The  youngest  bishop  of  the 
House  of  Lords,  whose  duty  it  is  to  read 
prayers ;  so  called  because  he  walks 
into  the  house  in  a  dead  mau's  shoes  or 
boots,  i.e.  he  was  uot  iu  the  house  till 
some  bishop  there  died,  and  left  a 
vacancy. 

Boots.  To  go  (o  bed  in  liis  hoots. 
To  be  very  tipsy. 

Boots  at  an  Inn.  A  servant  whose 
duty  it  is  to  clean  tlie  boots.  The  Boots 
of  the  llollii-tree  Inn,  a  Christmas  tale 
ity  Charles  Dickens  (1855). 

Bootless  Errand.  An  unprofitable 
or  futile  message.  The  Saxon  tiot  moans 
"  reparation " — "overplus  to  profit"  ;  as 
"  I  will  give  you  that  to  boot  "  ;  "  what 
boots  it  me  'i  "  (what  does  it  profit  me  'r). 

"  I  sent  liim 
Boiitless  home  and  weathev-hcaten  Iiaclc." 
Slialcc.'<pe((re :  1  Henry  /('.,  iii.  1. 

Bootes  (So-o'-fees),  or  the  ox-driver, 
a  constellation.  According  to  ancient 
niytliology,  Bootes  invented  the  plough, 
to  which  ho  yoked  two  oxen,  and  at 
death,  being  taken  to  heaven  with  his 
l>lough  and  oxen,  was  made  a  constel- 
lation.    Homer  calls  it  "  the  wagoner." 

"  Wiile  o'er  tlie  spacious  re,!,'ii)ns  of  tlip  nortli, 
That  see  Bootes  urge  his  tardy  wain." 

Tliomsmi:  M'iulcr,  ><iA-'). 

Booth.  Husband  of  Amelia.  {Fieht- 
ii/t/  :  Aiiu'lia.) 

Boozy.  Partly  intoxicated.  (Russian, 
liitsii.  millet-beer  ;  Latin,  Imza,  from  Iiko, 
to  till  ;  Welsh,  bozi  ;  Old  Dutch,  h'djzcn, 
to  tipple ;  Cojitic,  honza,  intoxicating 
drink.) 

"In  Egypt  tliere  is  a  lieer  called  'Boozer,' 
wliicli  is  intoxicating."— Jfo?-)j(?i(7  Chronicle^  Ami. 
•JTIJi,  185L'. 

Bor  (in  Norfolk)  is  a  familiar  term  of 
address  to  a  lad  or  young  man ;  as, 
"  Well,  bor,  I  saw  the  morther  you 
spoke  of" — i.e.  "Well,  sir,  I  saw 'the 
lass.  .  .  ."  "Bor"  is  the  Dutch  hoer, 
a  farmer  ;  and  "  mor  "  the  Dutch  inoer, 
a  female. 

Borach'io.  A  drunkard.  From  the 
Spanish  hornch'oe  or  horruch'o,  a  bottle 
made  of  pig's  skin,  with  the  hair  inside, 
dressed  with  resin  and  pitch  to  keep  the 
•wine  sweet.     {Minsheii.) 

Bornehio.  A  follower  of  Don  John, 
in  Much  Ado  About  Xotliiny,  who  thus 
plays  upon  his  own  name  :— 

"  I  will,  like  a  true  drunkard  [horachUi],  nttor  all 
to  thee."— Act  iii.  5. 

Bor'ak  or  Al  Borah  (the  lightning). 
The  animal  brought  by  Gabriel  to  carry 


Mahomet  to  the  seventh  heaven.  It  had 
the  face  of  a  man,  but  the  cheeks  of  a 
horse ;  its  eyes  were  like  jacinths,  but 
brilliant  as  the  stars ;  it  had  the  wings 
of  an  eagle,  spoke  with  the  voice  of  a 
man,  and  glittered  all  over  with  radiant 
light.  This  creature  was  received  into 
Paradise,     {^ve  Animals,  Camel.) 

Bord  Halfpenny.  A  toll  paid  by 
the  Saxons  to  the  lord  for  the  privilege 
of  having  a  bord  or  bench  at  some  fair 
for  the  sale  of  articles. 

Borda'rii  or  Bord  men.  A  class  of 
agriculturists  superior  to  the  Villa'ni, 
who  paid  their  rent  bj^  supplying  the 
lord's  board    with    eggs    and    jjoultry. 

{Doinesdaij  Bool\) 

Border  {The).  The  frontier  of  Eng- 
land and  Scotland,  which,  from  the 
eleventh  to  the  fifteenth  century,  was 
the  field  of  constant  forays,  and  a  must 
fertile  source  of  ill  blood  between  North 
and  South  Britain. 

"March, march,  Ettrick  and  Tc\  ioldale  ; 

Why   the   dcil   dinna    \c    iiiarrh    lniward    in 
order  ? 
March,  march,  EsktUle  and  Liddesd.ale— 
All    the   Blue   Bonnets  are    iKumd   for    the 
border." 

Sir  Walter  ficotf :  Tlie  Moiuntterii. 

Border  Minstrel.  Sir  Walter  Scott, 
because  he  sang  of  the  border.  (1771- 
1832.) 

Border  States  {The).  The  five 
"slave"  states  (Delaware,  Maryland, 
Virginia,  Kentucky,  and  Missouri)  which 
lay  next  to  the  ' '  free  states  "  were  so 
called  in  the  Civil  War,  18tJl-1865.       _ 

Bordlands.  Lands  kept  by  lords  in 
Saxon  times  for  the  supply  of  their  own 
board  or  table.  (Anglo-Saxon,  bord,  a 
table.) 

Bordlcde.    Service  jmid  for  the  land. 

Bore  {A).  A  person  who  bestows 
his  tediousness  on  you  ;  one  who  wearies 
you  with  his  prate,  his  company,  or  his 
solicitations.  Verb  hear,  bore,  home,  to 
endure.  A  bore  is  someone  wo  bore  with 
or  endured. 

"  At  this  instant 
He  liores  me  with  son  e  trick." 

Shulccspccire:  Henry  VJIf.,  i.  1. 

Bore.    A  tidal  wave. 

The  most  ec/ebrated  bores  are  those 
of  the  Brahmaputra,  Gauges,  Hooghly, 
Indus,  and  Tsintaug  (in  China).  Bores 
occur  regularlij  in  the  Bristol  Channel 
and  Solway  Frith  ;  occamonaUij  (iu  high 
tides),  in  the  Clyde,  Dee  (Cheshire), 
Dornoch   Frith,   Lune,    Severn,    Trent 


Bore 


164 


Bos 


{eygre),  and  Wj'e.  The  bore  of  the  Bay 
of  Fimdy  is  caused  by  the  collinioii  of  the 
tides.    (Icelandic  l/dra,  a  wave  or  billow.) 

Bore  (in  pugilistic  language)  is  one 
who  bears  or  presses  on  a  man  so  as  to 
force  him  to  the  ropes  of  the  ring  by  his 
physical  weiglit ;  figuratively,  one  who 
bears  or  presses  on  you  by  his  pertin- 
acity. 

"  All  liespars  are  liable  to  vebufls,  with  tlie  cev- 
tiiintv  besides  of  being  considered  bores."— Prince 
Albert,  ls,v.t. 

Boreal.    Northern. 

"  In  r;iili;int  streams, 
Briylit  over  EiiroiK-,  bursts  the  Boreal  moni." 
'J'liumson :  Autnmu,  US. 

Bor'eas.  The  north  wind.  According 
to  mythology,  he  was  the  son  of  Astrffius, 
a  Titan,  and  Eos,  the  morning,  and  lived 
in  a  cave  of  Mount  Ha^mus,  in  Thrace. 
(Greek,  boros,  voracious ;  liureas,  the 
north  wind  ;  Russian,  horia,  stonn.) 
"Cease,  rude  Boreas  !  lilii^terinj;  railer." 

Geo.  Mex.  SttTciis. 
"  Oiiiiiiii  pnntus  haurit  saxa  vorax."    Lncaii. 

Borghese  {Bor-ga'-zy).  The  Prhicesi^ 
Borcjhcse  pulled  down  a  church  con- 
tiguous to  her  palace,  because  the  in- 
cense turned  her  sick  and  the  organ  made 
her  head  uneasy. 

Bor'gia.     {Hee  Lucrezia.) 

Born,  y^ot  horn  yesterdaij.  Not  to 
be  ttikcn  hi ;  worldly  wise. 

Born  Days.  In  all  my  horn  days. 
Ever  since  I  was  born. 

Born  in  the  Purple  (a  translation 
of  porphyrogenitiis).  The  infant  of 
roj'al  parents  in  opposition  to  horn  in 
the  gutter,  or  child  of  beggars.  This 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  purple  robes 
of  royalty.  It  refers  to  the  chamber 
lined  with  porphpy  by  one  of  the  Bj'zan- 
tine  empresses  for  her  accouchement. 
(See  Xuieteenth  Century,  March,  1894, 
p.  510.) 

"  Zoe,  the  fourtU  wife* of  Leo  VI.,  gave  birth  to 
the  future  Emperor  Constantine  PorphyroKenitus 
iu  the  purple  chamber  of  the  imperial  palace."— 
F ill  la II :  Jlistonj  of  tlie  Biizantine  and  Greelc  Em- 
jjires,  vol.  i. 

Born  with  a  Silver  Spoon,  or  Born 
xvith  a  silrer  spoon  in  one\'<  mouth.  Bom 
to  good  luck ;  bom  with  hereditary 
wealth.  The  reference  is  to  the  usual 
gift  of  a  silver  spoon  by  the  godfather  or 
godmother  of  a  child.  The  lucky  child 
does  not  need  to  wait  for  the  gift,  for  it 
is  born  with  it  in  its  mouth  or  inherits  it 
fi'om  infancy. 

Borough  English  is  where  the 
youngest  son    inherits    instead    of    the 


eldest.  It  is  of  Sa.ron  origin,  and  is  so 
called  to  distinguish  it  from  the  Noiinan 
custom. 

"The  custom  of  Borouirh  English  abounds  in 
Kcrt,  Sussex.  Surrey,  llie  ueii-'libiuirhood  of 
Louiloii,  and  Some  set.  Iu  llu'  .Midliiuds  it  is 
rare,  and  north  •if  Ilie  Hunilier  ...  it  does  not 
seeui  to  o<-euv."— i".  I'ullacl- :  Macmillaiiis  Maija- 
ziiie.  .\l\i.  (l>s-ji. 

Borowe.  -S'^.  George  to  horowe,  i.e. 
St.  George  being  surety.  (Danish,  horgeu, 
bail ;  Swedish,  horgnn,  a  giving  of  bail.) 

Borr.  Son  of  Ymer,  and  father  of 
Odin,  Ville,  Ve,  and  Hertha  or  Earth. 
The  Celtic  priests  claimed  descent  from 
this  deity.     (Ce/tie  niytho/ogy.) 

Borrow.  A  pledge.  To  borrow  is  to 
take  something  which  wo  i)k'dge  our- 
selves to  return.  (Anglo-Stixon,  borg,  a 
loan  or  pledge ;  verb  borg-iun.) 

"  Ye  mav  retain  as  borrows  my  two  priests."— 
Si-i)tt:  JniuUiii'.  chap,  xxxiii. 

Borrowed  days  of  February  ( The) . 
12th,  i;5th  and  14th  of  February,  said  to 
be  borrowed  front  January.  If  these 
days  prove  stormj-,  the  year  will  be 
favoured  with  good  weather ;  but  if 
fine,  the  year  will  be  foul  and  unfavour- 
able. These  three  days  are  called  by 
the  Scotch  Faoilteaeh,  and  lience  the 
wovdj'aoiltef(eh  means  execrable  weather. 

Borrowed   days   of  March.     The 

last  three  days  of  March  are  said  to  be 

"  borrowed  from  AjJiil." 

'  March  said  to  .\pcrill, 
]  see  .1  hoKps  lhoK?-'ets  sheep]  upon  a  hill  ; 
And  if  you'll  Icuil  me  dayes  3 
I'll  And  a  way  to  make  them  dee  [die]. 
The  first  o'  them  wus  wind  and  weet. 
The  second  o'  them  wus  snaw  and  sleet, 
The  third  o'  them  wus  sic  a  freeze 
1 1  froze  the  birds'  nehs  to  the  trees. 
When  the  S  days  were  past  and  irane 
The .3 silly  hoggs  came  hirpling [limping]  hame." 

Bortell.  The  bull,  in  the  tale  of 
lieyiKird  the  I'o.r.  {Heinrich  von  Alk- 
inan.) 

Bos[ei]  in  lingua.  He  is  bribed  to 
silence ;  he  has  a  coin  (marked  with  a 
bull's  head)  on  his  tongue.  Adalardus, 
in  Statiitis  Abbatia:  Corbeiensis  (bk.  i. 
0.  8),  seems  to  refer  to  the  bos  as  a  coin. 
'■'■  Bores  et  reViquam  2)ecuniam  hubeat  .  .  . 
vnde  et  ipse  et  omnis  familia  ejusvirere 
pos.sit''''  {i.e.  plenty  of  gold  and  silver. . .). 
Plautus,  however,  distinctly  says  {Persa, 
ii.  5,  16),  ^' Bores  bini  hie  sxiit  in  er/i- 
iiieiia "  (Two  bulls  in  a  purse.)  The 
Greeks  had  the  phrase,  /3ovs  em  yXuttijs. 
Servius  tells  us  that  even  the  Romans 
had  a  coin  with  a  bull  stamped  on  it. 
(See  Fling,  18,  3.)  Presuming  that  there 
was  no  such  coin,  there  caimot  be  a 
doubt  that  the  word  Bos  was  used  as 
the  equivalent  of  the  price  of  an  ox. 


Bosh 


16= 


Bottle-chart 


Bosh.  A  Persian  word  meaning  non- 
sense. It  was  popularised  in  1824  by 
James  Morier  in  his  Adventures  of 
Hnjji  Baba  of  Ispahan,  a  Persian 
romance.  (Turkish,  bosh  lalccrdi,  silly 
talk.) 

"  I  iihvays  like  to  read  old  Darwin's  Loves  of  the 
Plants ;  bosh  as  it  is  in  a  scientilic  point  of  view." 
— Kinysley  :  Two  Years  Aijo  tcbap.  x.). 

Bosky.  On  the  verge  of  drunken- 
ness. University  slang,  from  bos/co,  to 
pasture,  to  feed.  Everyone  will  remem- 
ber how  Sir  John  Falstaff  made  sack  his 
meat  and  drink. 

Bosom  Friend  {A).  A  very  dear 
friend.  Nathan  says,  "It  lay  in  his 
bosom,  and  was  unto  him  as  a  daughter." 
('2  Sam.  xii.  3.)  Bosom  friend,  aiiiie  ihi 
cwiir.  St.  John  is  represented  in  the 
New  Testament  as  the  "bosom  friend" 
of  Jesus. 

Bosom  Sermons.  "Written  sermons, 
not  extemporary  ones  or  from  notes. 
Does  it  not  mean  committed  to  memory 
or  learnt  by  heart  ? 

"Tlie  iireacliing  from  'bosom  sermons,'  or  from 
writill^■,bein^' considered  a  life  less  practice  before 
tlie  Keformatiou."— Bdmi ;  Jleformatioii  in  Eikj- 
1(111(1,  p.  ]7'.i. 

Bosphorus=Oxford.  The  Thracian 
Bosphorus,  or  Bosporus,  unites  the  Sea 
of  MarmSra  with  the  Euxine  (2  syl.)  or 
Black  Sea.  According  to  Greek  fable, 
Zeus  (Jupiter)  greatly  loved  lo,  and 
changed  her  into  a  white  cow  or  heifer 
from  fear  of  Hera  or  Juno ;  to  flee 
from  whom  she  swam  across  the  strait, 
which  was  thence  called  bos  poros, 
the  passage  of  the  cow.  Hera  dis- 
covered the  trick,  and  sent  a  gadfly  to 
torment  lo,  who  was  made  to  wander, 
in  a  state  of  phreuzy,  from  laud  to  land. 
The  wanderings  of  lo  were  a  favourite 
subject  of  story  with  the  ancients. 
Ultimately,  the  persecuted  Argive  prin- 
cess found  rest   on    the  banks  of   the 

xae. 

Diotnisiiis  of  ITnlicdrnassus  and  Valerius  Flaccns 
give  tliis  account,  but  .\ccarion  sa.vs  it  was  a  ship, 
with  tbe  pr(jw  of  an  ox,  sent  by  some  Tlii'acians 
through  the  straits,  that  gave  name  to  this  irjs- 
saye. 

Boss,  a   master,  is   the   Dutch   baas, 

head     of    the    household.      Hence    the 

great  man,  chief,  a  masher,  a  swell. 

"  Mr.  Stead  calls  Mr.  O'Connor  the  'Boss  of  the 
Huuse.' " 

Bossum.  One  of  the  two  chief 
deities  of  the  negroes  on  the  Gold  Coast, 
the  other  being  Demonio.  Bos.sum,  the 
principle  of  good,  is  said  to  be  ichitc ; 
and  Demonio,  the  principle  of  evil,  black. 
{African  mythology.) 


Bostal  or  Borstal!.  A  naiTow  road- 
way up  the  steep  ascent  of  hills  or  downs. 
(Anglo-Saxon  biorh,  a  hill;  sthjele,  a 
rising  path  ;  our  stile.) 

Bot'anomancy.  Divination  by  leaves. 
Words  were  written  on  leaves  which 
were  exposed  to  the  wind.  The  leaves 
left  contained  the  response.  (iS'«'BoTAXY.) 

Bot'any  means  a  treatise  on  fodder 
(Greek,  bot'aiie,  fodder,  from  boskeiii,  to 
feed).  The  science  of  plants  would  be 
"phytol'ogy,"  from  phi/ton-loyos  (plant- 
ti'eatise). 

Botch.  A  patch.  Bofeh  and  patch 
are  the  same  word  ;  the  older  form  was 
bo(lf/e,  whence  hoyyle.  (Italian  pezzo,  pro- 
nounced patzo.) 

Bother,  i.e.  pother  (Hihemivin).  Hal- 
liwell  gives  us  blotltcr,  which  he  says 
means  to  chatter  idly. 

'• '  Sir,'  cries  the  umph-e, '  cease  your  poMuM\ 
The  creature's  neither  one  nor  t'oilier.'  " 

Lloyd:  The  C'hamvteoii. 

"  Thelrish bodhar  (baaUJhirt, trouble), 
or  its  cognate  verb,  to  deafen,  seems  to 
be  the  original  word. 

Bothie  System.  The  Scotch  system 
of  building,  like  a  baiTack,  all  the  out- 
houses of  a  farmstead,  as  the  byres, 
stables,  barus,  etc.  The  farm  men- 
servants  live  here.  (Gaelic,  bothay,  a 
cot  or  hut,  our  booth.) 

"The  biithie  system  prevails,  more  or  le.ss.  in 
the  eastern  and  north-eastern  districts."— X  liegg, 
D.D. 

Botley  Assizes.  The  joke  is  to  ask 
a  Botley  man,  "  When  the  assizes  are 
coming  on?"  and  an  innuendo  is  sup- 
posed to  be  implied  to  the  tradition  that 
the  men  of  Botley  once  hanged  a  man 
because  he  could  not  drink  so  deep  as 
his  neighbours. 

Bottes.  A  propos  de  bottes.  By  the 
by,  thus  :  Mais,  Jfons.,  a  propos  de  bottes, 
comment  se  porte  madamc  voire  mere  { 

"That  venerable  personace  [the  f'haldiean 
Charon]  not  only  gives  Izdubar  instructions  bow 
to  regain  his  health,  but  tells  him,  somewhat 
a  propos  des  bottes  .  .  .  the  long  story  of  his  per- 
fidious nd\eutare."—X incteentli  Century,  June, 
1891,  p.  911. 

Bottle.  Looking  for  a  needle  in  a 
bottle  of  hay.  Looking  for  a  very  small 
article  amidst  a  mass  of  other  things. 
Bottle  is  a  diminutive  of  the  French 
botte,  a  bmidle;  as  botte  dcfoin,  a  bundle 
of  hay. 

Hang  mc  in  a  bottle.     (See  Cat.) 

Bottle-chart.  A  chart  of  ocean  siu'- 
face  ciu'rents  to  show  the  track  of  sealed 
bottles  thrown  fi-om  ships  into  the  sea. 


Bottle-holder 


ir,() 


Boucan 


Bottle-holder.  One  who  gives  moral 
but  not  material  support.  The  allusion 
is  to  boxing  or  prize-tightiug,  where  each 
combatant  has  a  bottle-holder  to  wii^e  oit" 
blood,  refresh  with  water,  and  do  other 
services  to  encourage  his  man  to  perse- 
vere and  win. 

"  LovdPaliiicrstoiironsideredliimself  tlieliottle- 
liDhler  of  (ipiiresscd  States.  .  .  .  Hewastlie  stead- 
t'asf,  iBirtisaii  nf  (■(lusritiitioiial  liljei'ty  ill  every 
liart  of  till-  N\()i-ld."— 77(C  Times. 

Bottle-imps.  Tlie  Hebrew  word  for 
familiar  spirits  is  obot/i,  leather  bottles, 
to  indicate  that  the  magicians  were  wont 
to  imprison  in  bottles  those  spirits  whicli 
their  spells  had  subdued. 

Bottle-washer  {Head) .  Chief  agent ; 
the  princii^al  man  employed  by  another ; 
a  factotum.  Head  waiter  or  butler 
(fiottdler). 

Bottled  Beer  is  said  to  have  been 
discovered  by  Dean  Xowell  as  a  most  ex- 
cellent beverage.  The  Dean  was  very 
fond  of  lishiug,  and  took  a  bottle  of 
beer  witli  him  in  his  excursions.  One 
day,  being  disturbed,  he  buried  his  bottle 
under  the  grass,  and  when  he  disinterred 
it  some  ten  daj's  afterwards,  found  it 
so  gi'eatly  improved  that  he  ever  after 
drank  bottled  beer. 

Bottled  Moonshine.  Social  and 
benevolent  schemes,  such  as  Utopia, 
Coleridge's  Pautisocracy,  the  dreams  of 
Owen,  Fourier,  St.  Simon,  the  New 
Republic,  and  so  on. 

"Gcidwiiil  Hiizlitt  !  ('olevid'-rc  !  Wlii-re  now 
arc  tlieir  'novel  idiilosoiiliies  and  systems"? 
Bottled  nioonsliine,  wldcli  does  not  improve  hy 
keoiiing."— BirrcH :  Vbitcr  Dicta,  p.  loy  U»«J). 

Bottom. 

A  tiliij/s  bottom  is  that  part  which  is 
used  for  freight  or  stowage. 

Goods  imported  in  Britisli  hotloms  are 
tliose  which  come  in  our  own  vessels. 

Goods  imported  in  foreign  bottoms  are 
those  which  come  in  foreign  ships. 

Afnlllmttom  is  where  tlie  lower  half 
of  the  hull  is  so  disposed  as  to  allow 
large  stowage. 

A  sharp  bottom  is  when  a  ship  is  capa- 
ble of  speed. 

A t  bottom.  Radically,  fundamentally : 
as,  the  young  prodigal  lived  a  riotous 
life,  but  was  good  at  bottom,  or  below 
the  surface. 

At  the  bottom.     At  the  base  or  root. 

"  Pride  is  at  tlie  bottom  of  all  great  mistakes." 
—Kiinkiii:  True  and  Beaati/ul,  p.  4i'(). 

From  the  bottom  of  mi/  heart.  With- 
out reservation.     {Imo  eorde.) 

"If  one  of  tlie  parties  .  .  .  lieeonieiit  to  foru-ive 
from  tlic  liottom  of  his  lieart  all  tliat  tlie  other 
hatli  tresrasscd  against  him."— Cu/umou  I'rcnjcr 
Book. 


•    He  teas  at  the  bottom  of  it.    He  really 
instigated  it,  or  promj^ted  it. 

Never  venture  nil  in  one  bottom — i.e. 
one  ship.  "Do  not  put  all  your  eggs 
into  one  basket." 

"My  ventures  are  not  in  one  builoiii  trusted."— 
Sluihespeare:  Merchant  of  Venice,  i.  1. 

To  have  no  bottom.  To  be  unfathom- 
able. 

To  ffet  to  the  bottom  of  the  matter.  To 
ascertain  the  entire  truth ;  to  bolt  a 
matter  to  its  bran. 

To  stand  on  one''s  ou'n  bottom.  To  be 
independent.  "Every  tub  must  stand 
on  its  own  bottom." 

2'o  toiieli  bottom.  To  reach  the  lowest 
depth. 

A  horse  of  good  bottom  means  of  good 
stamina,  good  foundation. 

Bottom  {XkJ,-),  the  n-eaver.  A  man 
who  fancies  he  c;iu  do  everything,  ami 
do  it  better  than  anyone  else.  Sliake- 
speare  has  drawn  him  as  profoundly 
ignorant,  brawny,  mock  heroic,  and  with 
an  overflow  of  self-conceit.  He  is  in 
one  part  of  2Lidsummcr  Nif/hTs  J) ream 
represented  with  an  ass's  head,  and 
Tittinia,  queen  of  the  fairies,  under  ti 
spell,  caresses  him  as  an  Ado'nis. 

V  The  name  is  very  appropriate,  as 
the  word  bottom  means  a  ball  of  thread 
used  in  weaving,  etc.  Thus  in  Clark's 
Ilernldru  we  lead,  "  The  coat  of  Bad- 
land  is  argent,  three  bottoms  in  fess 
gules,  the  thread  or.^'' 

"Wlien  (ioldsmitli,  jealous  of  the  atleiilinii 
wliiih  a  d.niiing  iiumkey  atlraeted,  said,  '1  e.ni 
do  that,'  he  was  hut  playing  Bottom."—/;.  (1. 
White. 

Bottcniless.  The  bottomless  pit.  An 
allusion  to  William  Pitt,  who  was  re- 
markably thin. 

Botty.  Conceited.  Tlie  frog  that 
tried  to  look  as  big  as  an  ox  was  a 
"  botty  "  frog  {Xorfdh).  A  similar  word 
is  "  swell,"  though  not  identical  in  mean- 
ing. "Bumpkin"  and  "bumptious" 
are  of  similar  construction.  (Welsh,  bot, 
a  round  body,  our  bottle;  Imtli,  the  boss 
of  a  shield ;  botliel,  a  rotundity.) 

Boucan.  Jnmner  an  houean.  To 
give  a  diince.  Boucan  or  Bocan  was  a 
musician  and  dancing  master  in  the 
middle  of  the  seventeenth  century.  W  c 
was  alive  in  161.3. 

"Thiliaiit  se  dit  cstre  Mereiire, 
El  I'oigiicilleiix  Colin  nous  jure 
Qu'il  est  aussi  liieu  Apollon 
One  Buccau  est  hoii  vicdon." 

Sienr  dc  St.  Amant  (Ifirdl 
"  Les  mnsieiens  qui  jouent  an  ballet  du  roi  soiit 
appeles  'disciples  dc  Bocan.'  "—Ilistoire  Cumiquc  de 
t'raneion  clli.'ij). 


Bonders 


167 


Bow 


Bouders  or  Boudons.  A  tribe  of 
giants  and  evil  genii,  the  guard  of  Shiva. 
{Lid inn  iin/thologij.') 

Boudoir,  iiroperly  si^eakiug,  is  the 
room  to  which  a  hidy  retires  when  she 
is  in  the  sulks.  (French,  bonder,  to  pout 
or  sulk.) 

The  first  boudoirs  were  those  of  the 
mistresses  of  Louis  XV.     {Sec  Bower.) 

Boues  de  St.  Amand  {Lck).  The 
mud  baths  of  St.  Amand  (that  is,  St. 
Amand  -  les  -  Eaux,  near  Valenciennes, 
famous  for  its  mineral  waters).  These 
mud-baths  are  a  '■'■  sorte  de  limou  qid  sc 
troitre  2^res  des  eaux  mincraJes.''''  By  a 
figure  of  speech,  one  says,  by  way  of 
reproof,  to  an  insolent,  foul-mouthed 
fellow,  "I  see  you  have  been  to  the 
mud-baths  of  St.  Amand." 

Bought  and  Sold,  or  Bour/ht,  sold, 
and  done  for.  Ruined,  done  foi',  out- 
witted. 

"  .Tin-ky  of  Norfolk,  lie  not  too  bold, 
For  Diccoii,  tliy  iiiiister,  is  liouiflit  aud  sold." 

Shakefpeure:  Kicliard  III.,  act  v.  it. 
"  It  would  make  a  man  mad  as  a  Inu-k  to  be  so 

bonu'bt  and  sold."— t'o7H«/^  of  Jirrors,  iii.  1. 

Bougie.  A  wax  candle ;  so  called 
from  Bougiah,  in  Algeria,  whence  the 
wax  was  imported.  A  medical  instru- 
ment used  for  dilating  strictures  or  re- 
moving obstructions. 

Boule  or  Boide-rcorh  (not  Buhl).  A 
kind  of  marquetry  ;  so  called  from  Andre 
Charles  Boule,  a  cabinetmaker,  to  whom 
Louis  XIV.  gave  apartments  in  the 
Louvre.     (1642-173-2.) 

Boul'janus.  An  idol  worshipped  at 
Nantes,  in  ancient  Gaul.  An  inscription 
was  found  to  this  god  in  1592.  {Celtic 
miithologii.) 

Bouncer.  ThaVn  a  bouncer.  A  gross 
exaggeration,  a  braggart's  Ue.  (Dutch, 
honz,  verb  bonzcn,  to  bounce  or  thump. 
A  boHiicuKj  lie  is  a  thunqnny  lie,  and  a 
hoHiwer  is  a  thiiinjjer.) 

"He  spe.'iks  plain  cannon,  fire,  and  smoke,  and 
\ivmice."—lili<tke!<pcare:  Kiwj  John,  ii.  L'. 

Bounty.  Qneen  Anne's  Bounfi/.  The 
produce  of  the  first-fruits  and  tenths 
due  to  the  Crown,  made  over  by  Queen 
Anne  to  a  corporation  established  in  the 
year  1704,  for  the  purpose  of  augmenting 
church  livings  under  £50  a  year. 

Bouquet.    French  for  nosegay. 

"  Mr.  Disraeli  was  able  to  niakea  financial  state- 
ment burst  iiituabouijuet  of  tlowers."— .1/cC(ict/i»/: 
Uar  Oii-n  Trmes,  vol.  iii.  chap.  .\.\x.  p.  11. 

The  box fj net  of  wine,  also  called  its 
nosegay,  is  its  aro'ma. 

Bourbon.  So  named  from  the  castle 
and  seigniory   of  Bourbon,  in   the  old 


province  of  Bourbonnais.  The  Bourbon 
fatnUif  is  a  branch  of  the  Cap'ct  stock, 
through  the  brother  of  Philippe  le  Bel. 

Bourgeois  (French),  our  burgess. 
The  class  between  the  "gentleman" 
and  the  peasantry.  It  includes  all  mer- 
chants, shopkeepers,  and  what  we  call 
the  "  middle  class." 

Bourgeoisie  (French).  The  mer- 
chants, manufacturers,  and  master- 
tradesmen  considered  as  a  class.  Cito- 
i/en  is  a  freeman,  a  citizen  of  the  State  ; 
boure/eois,  an  individual  of  the  Bour- 
geoisie class.  Moliere  has  a  comedy 
entitled  Le  Bourgeois  Gcntilhomme. 

"The  commons  of  England,  the  Tiers-Elat  of 
France,  the  bourgeoisie  of  the  Continent  pener- 
all.v.are  the  descendants  of  this  class  [artisans] 
.Lreiicrally."  — J/(/(;  Political  Economy  (Prelim, 
p.  11'). 

Bouse.    {Sec  Boozy.) 

Boustrap'a.  Napoleon  III.  The 
word  is  compounded  of  the  first  syllables 
Bou-logne,  Stra-sbourg,  Fa-vis,  and  al- 
ludes to  his  escapades  in  1836  and  1840. 

Boustroph'edon.  A  method  of 
writing  or  printing,  alternately  from 
right  to  left  and  left  to  right,  like  the 
path  of  oxen  in  ploughing.  (Greek, 
boKS-strepho,  ox-turning.) 

Bouts-rimes  [rliinned-endi)igs'].  A 
person  writes  a  line  and  gives  the  last  word 
to  another  i:)erson,  who  writes  a  second 
to  rhyme  with  it,  and  so  on.  Dean 
Swift  employs  the  term  for  a  poem,  each 
stanza  of  which  tenninates  with  the  same 
word.  He  has  given  a  poem  of  nine 
verses,  each  of  which  ends  with  Domi- 
tilla,  to  which,  of  course,  he  finds  nine 
rhymes.     (French.) 

Bovcy  Coal.  A  ligiute  found  at 
Bovey  Tracy,  in  Devonshire. 

Bow  (to  rhyme  with, /o^r).  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  boga  ;  verb,  bog  an  or  bugan,  to 
arch.) 

Draw  not  your  bow  till  your  arrow  is 
fi.ird.  Have  everything  ready  before 
yoti  begin. 

Ifc  lias  a  famous  bow  up  at  the  castle. 
Said  of  a  braggart  or  pretender. 

He  has  two  strings  to  his  bou\  Two 
means  of  accomplishing  his  object ;  if 
one  fails,'  he  can  try  the  other.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  custom  of  the  British 
bowmen  can-ying  a  reserve  string  in  case 
of  accident. 

To  draw  a  bow  at  a  venture.  To  attack 
with  a  random  remark ;  to  make  a  ran- 
dom remark  which  may  hit  the  trutli. 

"A  certain  man  drew  a  liow  at  a  venture  and 
smote  the  Ring  of  Israel."—!  Kings  .\.\ii.  'M. 


Bcw 


168 


Bower  of  Bliss 


To  draw  the  lo)ig  bow.  To  exaggerate.  1 
The  long-bow  was  the  famous  Euglish 
weapon  till  gunpowder  was  introduced, 
and  it  is  said  that  a  good  archer  could 
hit  between  the  fingers  of  a  man's  hand 
at  a  considerable  distance,  and  could 
propel  his  arrow  a  mile.  The  tales  told 
about  long-bow  adventures  are  so  won- 
derful that  they  fully  justify  the  phrase 
givfcn  above. 

To  loiKtring  the  how  icill  not  heal  the 
■woioid  (Italian) .  Rene  of  Anion,  king  of 
Sicily,  on  the  death  of  his  wife,  Isabeau 
of  Lorraine,  adopted  the  emblem  of  a 
bow  with  the  string  broken,  and  with 
the  words  given  above  for  the  motto,  by 
which  he  meant,  "Lamentation  for  the 
li>ss  of  his  wife  was  but  poor  satisfac- 
tion." 

Bow  (to  rhyme  with  now).  The  fore- 
end  of  a  boat  or  ship.  (Danish  and 
Norwegian,  boKg  or  hov,  a  shoulder;  Ice- 
landic, bogr.) 

On  the  bow.  Within  a  range  of  45'  on 
one  side  or  the  other  of  the  prow. 

Bow  Bells.  Born  within  sound  of 
Bow  bells.  A  true  cockney.  St.  Mary- 
le-Bow  has  long  had  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  bell-peals  in  London.  John 
Duu,  mercer,  gave  in  1472  two  tene- 
ments to  maintain  the  ringing  of  Bow 
bell  every  night  at  nine  o'clock,  to  direct 
travellers  on  the  road  to  town ;  and  in 
lo20  William  Copland  gave  a  bigger  bell 
for  the  purpose  of  "sounding  a  retreat 
from  work."  Bow  church  is  nearly  the 
centre  of  the  City.  (This  bow  rhymes 
yvith  Jloic .) 

Bow-catcher  {A).  A  corruption  of 
"  Beau  Catcher,"  a  love-curl,  termed  by 
the  French  an  accroche  coeur.  A  love- 
curl  worn  by  a  man  is  a  Bell-rope,  i.e. 
a  rope  to  pull  the  belles  with. 

Bow-hand.  The  left  hand  ;  the  hand 
which  holds  the  bow.  (This  bow  rhymes 
\f  \i\i  flow.) 

To  be  too  much  of  the  bow-hand.  To 
fail  in  a  design  ;  not  be  suiRciently  dex- 
terous. 

Bow-street  Runners.  Detectives 
who  scoured  the  country  to  find  crim- 
inals, before  the  introduction  of  the 
police  force.  Bow  Street,  near  Covent 
Garden,  London,  is  where  tlie  principal 
police-court  stands.  (This  bow  rhymes 
VilVuflow.) 

Bow-window  in  Front  {A)    A  big 

corporation. 

"He  was  a  very  Jarge  man,  .  .  .  with  what  is 
tenued  a  considerable  b(]W-wiuduw  iu  front."— 
Capi.  Marryat :  Poor  Jack,  i. 


Bow-wow  Word.  A  word  in  imita- 
tion of  the  sound  made,  as  hiss,  cackle, 
nuirmur,  cuckoo,  whip-poor-will,  etc. 
(Max  Mil  Her.) 

Bowden.  I^^ot  every  man  can  be  vicar 
of  Bowden.  Not  everyone  can  occupy 
the  first  place.  Bowden  is  one  of  the  best 
livings  in  Cheshu-e.     [Cheshire  proverb.) 

Bowdlerise  {To).  To  expurgate  a 
book  in  editing  it.  Thomas  Bowdler, 
iu  1818,  gave  to  the  world  an  ex- 
IHirgated  edition  of  Shakespeare's  works. 
We  have  also  Bowdlerite,  Bowdlerist, 
Bowdleriser,  Bowdlerism,  Bowdlerisa- 
tion,  etc.     {See  Geangeeise.) 

Bowels  of  Mercy.  Compassion, 
symptithy.  The  tift'ections  were  ;it  one 
time  supposed  to  be  the  outcome  of 
certain  secretions  or  organs,  as  the  bile, 
the  kidneys,  the  heart,  the  head,  the 
liver,  the  bowels,  the  spleen,  and  so  on. 
Hence  such  words  ;ind  phrases  as  inchni- 
eliohj  (black  bile)  ;  the  Psalmist  says 
that  his  reins,  or  kidneys,  instructed  him 
(Psa.  X.  7),  meaning  his  inward  convic- 
tion ;  the  head  is  the  seat  of  under- 
standing ;  the  heart  of  affection  and 
memory  (hence  "loarning'by  heart"),  the 
bowels  of  mercy,  the  spleen  of  jiassion  cr 
anger,  etc. 

7/(6'  bowels  gearned  over  him  [upon  or 
towards  him).  He  felt  a  secret  affection 
for  him. 

"  Joseph  made  haste,  for  bis  bowels  did  yearn 
upon  his  brother."— Gen.  xliii.  30  ;  see  also  1  Kings 
ill.  i6. 

Bower.  A  lady's  private  room. 
(Anglo-Saxon  bur,  a  chamber.)  (To 
rhyme  with  flower.)     {See  Boudoie.) 

'•  Bv  a  back  staircase  she  slipped  to  her  own 
hov.X'\-:'—Bret  Ihirtc  :  Tliaiil.-ful  Blmi.inms,  part  ii. 

Bower  Anchor.  An  anchor  carried 
at  the  bow  of  a  shii^.  There  tire  two : 
one  called  the  best  bower,  and  the  other 
the  snwdl  bower.    (To  rhyme  with  flower. ) 

"Starboard  being  the  best  liower,  and  port  the 
small  Iwwer."— i'»i//(/i ;  Sailor's  H'ord-ftiw/r. 

Bower-woman  {A).  A  lady's  nuiid 
and  companion.  The  attendants  were 
admitted  to  considerable  freedom  of 
speech,  and  were  treated  with  familiarity 
and  kindness.  ("Bower"  to  rhyme 
withflower.) 

"  '  This  maiden,'  replied  Eveline, '  is  my  bower- 
woman,  and  acmiainted  with  my  most  inward 
thongbts.  I  beseech  ymi  to  permit  lici-  iivcs<Mice 
at  our  <'ouference."'— .S'ic  W.Scott:  The  Betrothed, 
chap.  xi. 

Bower  of  Bliss,  in  Wandering 
Island,  the  enchanted  residence  of  Acra'- 
sia,  destroyed  by  Sir  Guyon.  {Spenser  : 
Faerie  Qiteene,  book  ii.)  ("Bower"  to 
rhyme  with  flower.) 


Bo"wie 


169 


Boy  Bishop 


Bowie  Knife.  A  loug,  stout  kuife, 
carried  by  hunters  iu  the  Western  States 
of  America.  So  called  from  Colonel  James 
Bowie,  one  of  the  most  daring  characters 
of  the  States.  Born  in  Logan,  co.  Ken- 
tucky. A  bowie  knife  has  a  horn  handle, 
and  the  curved  blade  is  1.5  in.  long,  and 
1^  wide  at  the  hilt.  ("  Bowie  "  to  rhyme 
with  tilioicij.) 

Bowing.  "We  uncover  the  liead  when 
we  wish  to  salute  anyone  with  respect ; 
but  the  Jews,  Turks,  Siamese,  etc.,  un- 
cover their  feet.  The  reason  is  this : 
With  us  the  chief  act  of  investiture  is 
crowning  or  placing  a  cap  on  the  head  ; 
but  in  the  East  it  is  putting  on  the  slip- 
pers. To  take  off  our  symbol  of  honour 
is  to  confess  we  are  but  "the  humble 
servant"  of  the  person  whom  we  thus 
salute.  ("Bowing"  to  rhyme  with 
ploinjhing  ox plowiivj.') 

Bowled.  He  u-as  howled  out.  A 
term  in  cricket.     (Pronounce  bold.) 

Bowling.  Tom  Boicluig.  The  tj'pe 
of  a  model  sailor  in  Smollett's  liodcrh-k 
lidndoin.     (To  rhyme  with  rolling.) 

*,'  The  Tom  Bowling  referred  to  in 
Dibdin's  famous  sea-song  was  Cai^taiu 
Thomas  Dibdin,  brother  of  Charles 
Dibdin,  who  wrote  the  song,  and  father 
of  Dr.  Dibdin,  the  bibliomaniac. 

"  Here  ,-1  slii'er  hulk  lies  imur  Tom  Buwliu'-', 
TLo  Jurliujj  of  tho  crew."  Dibdin. 

Bowls.  They  who  play  lioich  nuiM 
e.rpcct  to  meet  icith  ruhhers.  Those  who 
touch  pitch  must  expect  to  defile  their 
fingers.  Those  who  enter  upon  affairs 
of  chance,  adventure,  or  dangerous 
hazard  must  make  up  their  minds  to 
encounter  crosses,  losses,  or  difficulties. 
Those  who  play  with  edged  instruments 
must  expect  to  get  cut.  Soldiers  in 
battle  must  look  out  for  wounds,  gam- 
blers for  losses,  libertines  for  diseases. 

V   "  Bowls  "  to  rhyme  with  rolls. 

Bowse.     {Sec  Browse.) 

Bowyer  God.  The  same  as  the 
"  archer  god,"  meaning  Cupid.  ("Bow- 
er "  to  rhyme  with  gruicer.) 

Box.  I've  got  into  the  irroi/g  ho.r.  I 
am  out  of  my  element.  Lord  Lyttelton 
used  to  say  he  ought  to  have  been 
brought  up  to  some  business  ;  that  when- 
ever he  went  to  Yauxhall  and  heard  the 
mirth  of  his  neighbours,  he  used  to 
fancy  pleasure  was  in  every  box  but  his 
own.  Wherever  he  went  for  happiness, 
he  somehow  always  got  into  the  wrong 
box.    {iSee  Christmas  Box. ) 


Box  and  Cox.  The  two  chief  char- 
acters in  John  M.  Morton's  farce,  usuallj' 
called  Boj:  and  Co.i\ 

Box  the  Compass.  Eepeat  iu  order 
the  32  points.  (Spanish,  boxar,  to  sail 
round.) 

Box  Days.  Two  daj's  iu  spring  and 
autumn,  and  one  at  Christmas,  during 
vacation,  in  which  pleadings  may  be 
filed.  This  custom  was  established  in 
1690,  for  the  purpose  of  expediting  busi- 
ness. Each  judge  has  a  jnivate  box 
with  a  slit,  into  which  informations  may 
be  j)laced  on  box  daj-s,  and  the  judge, 
who  alone  has  the  key,  examines  the 
palmers  in  private. 

Box  Harry  {To),  among  commercial 
ti'avellers,  is  to  shirk  the  table  d'hote  iind 
take  something  substantial  for  tea,  in 
order  to  save  expense.  Halliwell  says, 
"to  take  care  after  having  beeu  ex- 
travagant." To  box  a  tree  is  to  cut 
the  bark  to  procure  the  sap,  and 
these  travellers  drain  the  landlord  by 
having  a  cheap  tea  instead  of  an  expen- 
sive dinner.  To  ' '  box  the  fox  "  is  to 
rob  an  orchard. 

Bcxing-Day.    {See  Christmas  Box.  ) 

Boy  iu  sailor  language  has  no  refer- 
ence to  age,  but  oidy  to  experience  in 
seamanshii).  A  boy  may  be  fifty  or  any 
other  age.  A  crew  is  divided  into  able 
seamen,  ordinary  seamen,  and  boys  or 
greenhorns.  A  "boy"  is  not  required 
to  know  anything  about  the  practical 
working  of  the  vessel,  but  an  "able 
seaman"  must  know  all  his  duties  and 
be  able  to  perform  them. 

"A  l)ny  dues  uot  ship  to  know  anytUiiig." 

Boy  Bachelor.  William  Wotton, 
D.D.,  was  admitted  at  St.  Catherine's 
Hall  iDefore  he  was  ten,  and  took  his  B.  A. 
when  he  was  twelve  and  a  half.  (IGijG- 
1726.) 

Boy  Bishop.  St.  Nicholas.  From 
his  cradle  he  is  said  to  have  manifested 
marvellous  indications  of  piety,  and  was 
therefore  selected  for  the  patron  saint  of 
boys.     (Fourth  century.) 

£og  Bishop.  The  custom  of  choosing 
a  boy  from  the  cathedral  choir,  etc.,  on 
St.  Nicholas  Day  (December  6th),  as  a 
mock  bishop,  is  very  ancicut.  The  boy 
possessed  episcopal  honour  for  three 
weeks,  and  the  rest  of  the  choir  were  his 
prebendaries.  If  he  died  during  the  time 
of  his  prelacy,  he  was  buried  in  poi/li^fica'l- 
il)/fs.  Probably  the  reference  is  to  Jesus 
Christ  sitting  in  the  Temple  among  the 
doctors    while    He    was    a    boy.      The 


Boycott 


170 


Brag 


custom  was  abolished  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  VIII. 
livij  hi  buttons  (A).     {See  Buttons.) 

Boycott  ( To) .  To  hoijcott  a  prrsoii  is 
to  refuse  to  deal  with  him,  to  take  any 
notice  of  him,  or  even  to  sell  to  him. 
The  term  arose  in  1881,  when  Captain 
Boycott,  an  Irish  landlord,  was  thus 
ostracised  by  tlie  Irish  agrarian  insur- 
gents. The  custom  of  ostracising  is  of 
very  old  standing.  St.  Paul  exhorts 
Christians  to  "boycott''  idolaters  (2 
Cor.  vi.  17);  and  the  Jews  "  boj-- 
cotted  "  the  Samaritans.  The  French 
phrases,  iJuiiutcr  unc  boutique  and  Dam- 
ner  tme  riJle,  convey  the  same  idea  ;  and 
the  Catholic  Church  anathematises  and 
interdicts  freely. 

"One  word  as  to  the  way  in  wliicli  aiiian  slimiltl 
1)6  buycotted.  WIk'h  any  man  has  taken  a  farm 
from  whicli  a  tenant  lias  been  evk-teil,  or  is  a 
grab!)er,  let  everyi>ne  in  tlie  parisb  turn  bis  back 
(in  him  ;  have  mi  cunimunication  with  him  ;  have 
no  dealings  with  him.  Ymi  need  iie\<'r  s:iy  an 
unkind  word  to  him  ;  but  never  s;iy  anythini,'  at 
all  to  him.  If  yon  mnst  meet  him  in  fair,  walk 
away  from  him  silently.  Do  him  no  x  iolciue,  bnt 
have  no  dealings  with  him.  Let  every  man's 
door  be  closed  against  him  ;  and  make  him  feel 
himself  a  stranger  and  a  castaway  in  his  own 
neighbourhood." — T.  Dillon,  M.P.  {Sj)cecU  tu  the 
Land  Learjue,  Fob.  i'«,  issli. 

Boyle  Controversy.  A  book-battle 
between  the  Hon.  Charles  Boyle,  third 
Earl  of  Orrery,  and  the  famous  Beiitley, 
respecting  the  Epistles  of  rital'itris. 
Charles  Boyle  edited  the  EjAs'les  of 
r/ialriris  in  1695.  Two  year.)  later 
Bentley  published  his  celebrated  iJis- 
scrtafion,  to  jirove  that  the  eijistles  were 
not  wi'itten  till  tlie  second  century  after 
Christ  instead  of  six  centuries  before 
that  epoch.  In  1699  he,  pubhshed  an- 
other rejoinder,  and  uttei'ly  annihilated 
the  Boj-leists.  • 

Boyle's  Law.  "The  volume  of  a 
gas  is  inversely  as  the  pressure."  If  we 
double  the  pressure  on  a  gas,  its  volume 
is  reduced  to  one-half  ;  if  we  quadruple 
the  ijressure,  it  will  be  reduced  to  one- 
fourth  ;  and  so  on ;  so  called  from  the 
Hon.  Robert  Boyle.     (1627-1691.) 

Boyle  Lectures.  Eight  sermons  a 
year  in  defence  of  Christianitj',  founded 
by  the  Hon.  Robert  Boyle. 

Boz.     Charles  Dickens  (1812-1870). 

"B')Z,  my  signature  in  ihe  ilorxiwi  Chronicle," 
lie  tells  us,  "  was  the  nickname  of  a  pet  child,  a 
vounger  brother,  whom  I  had  dubbed  Moses,  in 
i-.onour  of  the  Vicar  of  Wakefield,  which,  being 
pronounced  Bozcs,  got  shortened  into  Bos, 

"Who  the  dickens  '  Boz'  could  be 
ruzzled  many  a  learned  elf  ; 
But  time  revealed  the  mystery, 
For  '  Boz'  appeared  as  Dickens'  self." 

Eliiijram  in  the  CaHhusian. 


Bozzy.  James  Boswell,  the  bio- 
grajjlier  of  Dr.  Johnson  (1740-179')). 

Braban9onne.  A  Belgian  patriotic 
song,  composed  in  the  revolution  of  18:j(t, 
and  so  named  from  Brabant,  of  which 
Brussels  is  the  cliief  city. 

Braban9ons.  Troops  of  adventurers 
and  bandits,  who  made  war  a  tra<le 
and  lent  themselves  for  money  to  any- 
one who  would  pay  them ;  so  called 
from  Brabant,  their  great  nest.  (Twelfth 
century.) 

Brace.  T/ie  Brace  Turerii,  south- 
east corner  of  King's  Bench  ;  originally 
kept  by  two  brothers  named  Partridge, 
i.e.  a  brace  of  bii'ds. 

Brace  of  Shakes.  In  a  brace  of 
shctkes.  Very  soon.  {See  Shakes.) 
Similar  phrases  are  :  "In  the  twinkling 
of  an  eye."  {See  Eye.)  "In  the 
twinkling  of  a  bed-post."  {See  Bed- 
tost.) 

Brad'amant  or  BradanKui'te.  Sister 
of  Einaldo,  in  Ariosto's  Orlando  F/irioso. 
She  is  represented  as  a  most  wonderful 
Christian  Am'azon,  possessed  of  an  irre- 
sistible spear,  which  unhorsed  every 
knight  that  it  touched.  The  same 
character  appears  in  the  Orlando  Inita- 
mora'to  of  Bojardo. 

Bradshaw's  Guide  was'  started  in 
1839  by  George  Bradshaw,  printer,  in 
Manchester.  The  Muntldn  Guide  was 
first  issued  in  December,  1841,  and  con- 
sisted of  thirty-two  pages,  giving  tables 
of  forty-three  lines  of  English  railway. 

Brad'wardine  {Uosi) .  The  daughter 
of  Baron  Bradwardine.  and  the  heroine 
of  Scott's  Waverleij.  She  is  in  love  with 
young  Waverlej',  and  ultimately  manies 
iiim. 

Brag.  A  game  at  cards:  so  called 
because  the  players  brag  of  their  cards 
to  induce  the  company  to  make  bets. 
The  principal  sport  of  the  game  is  occa- 
sioned by  any  player  brueiijincj  that  he 
holds  a  better  hand  than  the  rest  of  the 
partjs  which  is  declared  by  saying  "  I 
brag,"  and  staking  a  sum  of  money  on 
the  issue.     {Hoi/le.) 

Brag  is  a  c/ood  dor/,  bid  Holdfast  is  a 
better.  Talking  is  all  very  well,  but  doing 
is  far  better. 

Jack  Brar/.  A  vulgar,  pretentious 
braggart,  who  gets  into  aristocratic 
society,  where  his  vulgarity  stands  out 
in  strong  relief.  The  character  is  in 
Theodore  Hook's  novel  of  the  same  name. 

"He -was  a  sort  of  literary  Jack  Brag."— 7'.  //. 
Durton. 


Braggadochio 


171 


Brandy 


Braggadochio.  A  braggart.  One 
who  is  very  valiaut  with  his  tougue,  but 
a  gi'oat  coward  at  heart.  A  barking  dog 
tliat  bites  not.  The  character  is  from 
Spenser's  Faerie  Qxi'ene,  and  a  type  of 
tlie  '•  Intemperance  of  the  Tongue." 
After  a  time,  like  the  jackdaw  in  bor- 
rowed plumes,  Braggadocliio  is  stripped 
of  all  his  ' '  glories ' '  :  his  shield  is 
claimed  by  Sir  Mar'inel  ;  his  lady  Ls 
proved  by  the  golden  girdle  to  be  the 
false  Florimel ;  his  horse  is  claimed  by 
Sii'  Guyon ;  Talus  shaves  off  his  beard 
and  scourges  his  squire ;  and  the  pre- 
tender sneaks  off  amidst  the  jeers  of 
everyone.  It  is  thought  that  the  poet 
had  Felipe  of  Spain  in  his  eye  when  he 
drew  this  character.  {Favrie  Qitecne,  iii. 
8,  10  ;  V.  3.) 

Bra'gi.  Son  of  Odin  and  Frigga. 
According  to  Scandinavian  mythology, 
he  was  the  inventor  of  poetry ;  but, 
unlike  Ai3ollo,  he  is  always  represented 
as  an  old  man  with  a  long  white  beard. 
His  wife  was  Iduna. 

Bragi's  Apples.  An  instant  cure  of 
weariness,  decay  of  power,  ill  temper, 
and  failing  health.  These  apples  were 
inexhaustible,  for  immediately  one  was 
eaten  its  place  was  supplied  by  another. 

Bragi's  Story.  Always  enchanting, 
but  never  coming  to  an  end. 

'•But  I  lia\eiiiaile  my  story  liniu'  enoii'-'li  ;  if  I 
siy  nunc,  yiui  may  fancy  tliat  it  is  Bragi  «li(>  lias 
Clime  amimg  you,  and  that  lie  bas  enteieil  on  his 
endless  stmy."— A'e«/i/ ;  Heroes  of  Asgard,  p.  TJ4. 

Bragmar'do.  "When  Gargantua  took 
the  bells  of  Notre  Dame  de  Paris  to 
hang  about  the  neck  of  his  horse,  the 
citizens  sent  Bragmardo  to  him  with  a 
remonstrance.  {Rabelais :  Gargantua 
and  I'antaij'rud.) 

Brah'ma  {Indin)i).  The  self-existing 
and  invisible  Creator  of  the  universe  ; 
represented  with  four  heads  looking  to 
the  four  comers  of  the  world.  The 
divine  triad  is  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and 
Siva. 

Brahma.      One    of  the   three  beings 
created  by  God  to  assist  in  the  creation 
of  the  world.     The  Brahmins  claim  him 
as  the  founder  of  their  religious  system. 
"  Whate'er  in  India  holds  the  sacred  name 
Of  piety  or  lore,  the  Brahmins  claim  ; 
In  wildest  rituals,  vain  and  painful,  lost, 
Brahma,  their  founder,  as  a  god  they  boast." 
Camocns :  Ltistad,  liook  vii. 

Brah'mi.  One  of  the  three  goddess- 
daughters  of  Vishnu,  representing  "  crea- 
tive energy." 

Brahmin.  A  worshipper  of  Brahma, 
the  highest  caste  in  the  system  of  Hin- 
duism, and  of  the  priestly  order. 


Bramble  (Jfatt/iew) .  A  testy,  gouty, 
benevolent,  country  squire,  in  Smollett's 
novel  of  Hainijlrrcij  Clinker.  Colman 
has  introduced  the  same  character  as 
Sir  Robert  Bramble  in  his  Fuor  Gentle- 
man. Sheridan's  "Sir  Anthony  Abso- 
lute "  is  of  the  same  tj-pe. 

"A'ut  I  a  baronet?  Sir  Robert  Bramble  at 
Blacklierry  Hall,  in  the  county  of  Kent?  'Tis 
time  you  sluuild  know  it,  for  you  have  lieeii  my 
clumsy,  two-tisti'd  valei-de-chamlire  these  thirty 
years."— Tftc  Pour  Gentleman,  iii.  1. 

Bran.  If  not  Bran,  it  is  Bran'.s 
hratlier.  If  not  the  real  "  Simon  Pure," 
it  is  just  as  good.  A  complimentary 
expression.  Bran  was  Fingal's  dog,  a 
mighty  ftivourite. 

Bran-new  cr  Brand-new.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  hranil,  a  torch.)  Fire  new. 
Shakespeare,  iu  Lore's  l.ahour  Lost,  i.  1, 
saj's,  "  A  man  of  fire-new  words."  And 
again  iu  Ta-elfth  Night,  iii.  2,  "  Fire- 
new  from  the  mint";  and  again  in 
King  Lear,  v.  3,  "Fire-new  fortiuie"; 
and  again  iu  Richard  III.,  act  i.  3, 
"Your  tire-new  stamp  of  honour  is 
scarce  current."  Originally  applied  to 
metals  and  things  manufactured  in 
metal  which  shine.  Subsequently  ap- 
plied generally  to  things  quite  new. 

Brand.  The  CHeqaot  brand,  etc.,  the 
lest  braiid,  etc.  That  is  the  merchant's 
or  excise  mark  branded  on  the  article 
itself,  the  vessel  which  contains  the 
article,  the  wrapper  which,  covers  it,  the 
cork  of  the  bottle,  etc.,  to  guarantee  its 
being  genuine,  etc.  Madame  Clicquot, 
of  champagne  notoriety,  died  in  18G6. 

He  has  the  brand  of  villain  in  his  lookv. 
It  was  once  customarj'  to  brand  the 
cheeks  of  felons  with  an  F.  The  custom 
was  abolished  by  law  in  1822. 

Brandenburg.  Confession  of  Bran- 
denburg. A  formulary  or  confession  of 
faith  drawn  up  in  the  city  of  Brnndeu- 
bm-g,  by  order  of  the  elector,  with  the 
view  of  reconciling  the  tenets  of  Luther 
with  those  of  Calvin,  and  to  put  an  end 
to  the  disputes  occasioned  by  the  con- 
fession of  Augsburg. 

Bran'dimart,  in  Orlando  Furioso,  is 
Orlando's  brother-in-law. 

Brandon,  the  juggler,  lived  in  the 
reign  of  Heury  VIII. 

Brandons.  Lighted  torclies.  Ihw- 
iniea  de  bra)idonibiis  (St.  Valentine's 
Day),  when  boj's  used  to  carry  about 
brandons  (Cupid's  torches). 

Brandy  is  Latin  for  Goose.    Here 

is  a   pun   between    aiiser,   a  goose,  and 
amu'cr,  to  rei^ly.     What  is  the  Latin  for 


Brandy  Nan 


172 


Breaches 


goose?    Answer  [anser]  braudy.      {See 
Tace  the  Latin  foe  Candle.) 

Brandy  Nan.  Queen  Anne,  who 
was  very  fond  of  braudy  (1664,  1702- 
1714).  On  the  statue  of  Queen  Anne 
in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard  a  wit  wrote — 

"  Brandy  Nan,  Biandy  Xan,  left  in  tbe  lurch, 
HtT   face   to   the   gin-shop,  her   hack   to   th? 
church." 

A  "gin  palace"  used  to  stand  at  the 
south  corner  of  St.  Paul's  Churchyard. 

Branghtons  (IV/fc).  Vulgar,  malicious, 
jealous  women.  The  characters  are  taken 
from  Miss  Burney's  novel  called  i'/f/*«rt. 
One  of  the  brothers  is  a  Cockney  snob. 

Brank.  A  gag  for  scolds.  (Dutch, 
pra/ti/,  a  fetter ;  Urerm:in,  pruiif/cr,  Gaelic, 
bnuicas,  a  kind  of  liillory.) 

Brasenose  (Oxford).  Over  the  gate 
is  a  brass  nose,  the  arms  of  the  college  ; 
but  the  word  is  a  corruption  of  hnmen- 
hins,  a  brasserie  or  brewhouse.     (Latui, 

bfasln'lum.') 

Brass.  Impudence.  A  lawyer  said 
to  a  troublesome  witness,  "Why,  man, 
you  have  brass  enough  Lu  your  head  to 
make  a  teakettle."  "And  you,  sir," 
rejilied  the  witness,  "  have  water  enough 
in  yours  to  fill  it." 

h  (iiipso)i  Brass.  A  knavish  attorney  ; 
servile,  affecting  S3'mpathy,  but  making 
his  clients  his  lawful  prey.  {Dickois  : 
Old  Curionity  SJiop.) 

Brat.  A  child  ;  so  called  from  the 
Welsh,  bntt^  a  child's  pinafore  ;  and  brat 
is  a  contraction  of  brattach,  a  cloth,  also 
a  standard. 

"Every  man  must  repair  t'l  the  lirattach  of  his 
tribe."— .Sfo«. 
"  0  Israel !  O  household  of  the  Lord  ! 

0  Abraham's  brats  !  O  brood  of  lilessed  seed!  " 
Gascoi(jne:  Ve  Profiindis. 

Brave.     The  Brave. 

Alfonso  IV.  of  Portugal  (1290,  1324- 
1357). 

John  Andr.  van  der  Mersch,  patriot, 
The  brave  Fkming  (1734-1792). 

Bravery.  Finery  is  the  French  bravc- 
rte.     The  French  for  courage  is  bracoure. 

"  What  woman  in  the  city  do  I  name 
When  that  I  say  the  city  woman  bears 
■     The  cost  of  princes  on  unworthy  shoulders  ? 
Who  can  come  in  and  say  that  I  mean  her  ?  .  .  . 
Or  what  is  he  of  basest  function 
That  says  his  bravery  is  not  of  my  cost  ?" 

Shakespeare :  As  You  Like  It,  ii.  7. 

Bravest  of  the  Brave.  Marshal 
Ney.  So  called  by  the  troops  of  Fried- 
land  (1807),  on  account  of  his  fearless 
bravery.  Napoleon  said  of  him,  "  That 
man  i.s  a  lion."     C1769-1S1.5.) 


Brawn.  The  test  of  the  brawn's  head. 
A  little  boy  one  day  came  to  the  court  of 
King  Arthur,  and,  drawing  his  wand 
over  a  boar's  head,  declared,  "  There's 
never  a  cuckold's  knife  can  carve  this 
head  of  brawn."  No  knight  in  the 
com't  excejit  Sir  Cradock  was  able  to 
accomplish  the  feat.     {Fcrci/^s  Rcliqties.) 

Bray.     {Sec  Vicae.) 

Brazen  Age.    The  age  of  war  and 

violence.     It  followed  the  silver  age. 

"To  this  next  came  in  cour.se  the  brazen  a-,'  ■, 
A  warlike  offspring,  prompt  to  bloody  rai,'e. 
Not  impious  yet.    Hard  steel  succeeded  then, 
And  stubborn  as  the  metal  were  the  men." 
Dryden :  Metamorphoses,  i. 

Brazen-faced.  Bold  (in  a  bad  sense), 
without  shame. 

"  Wliat  a  brazen-faced  varlet  art  thou  1 " 

,Shakespe((re :  Kiiuj  Lear,  ii.  2. 

Brazen  Head.  The  following  are 
noted  : — One  by  Albertus  Magnus,  which 
cost  him  thirty  years'  labour,  and  was 
broken  into  a  thousand  pieces  by  Thomas 
Aqui'nas,  liis  disciple.  One  by  Friar 
Bacon. 

"  Bacon  trembled  for  his  brazen  head." 

I'djie  :  Diiiieiad,  iii.  101. 
"  Quoth  he, '  Jly  head's  not  nia<l(!  of  brass, 
As  Friar  Bacon's  noddle  was.'" 

S.  Bailer :  Uadibra^,  ii.  -'. 

The  brazen  head  of  the  Marquis  de 
Ville'na,  of  Spain. 

Another  by  a  Polander,  a  disciple  of 
Escotillo,  an  Italian. 

V  It  was  said  if  Bacon  heard  his  head 
speak  he  would  succeed  ;  if  not,  he  would 
fail.  Miles  was  set  to  watch,  and  while 
Bacon  slept  the  Head  spoke  thrice : 
"Time  is";  half  an  hour  later  it  said, 
"Time  was."  In  another  half-hour  it 
said,  "Time's  past,"  fell  down,  and  was 
broken  to  atoms.  Byron  refers  to  this 
legend. 
"  Like  Friar  Bacon's  brazen  head,  I've  spoken, 

'  Time  is,' '  Time  was,'  '  Time's  past.'  " 

Don  Jaaii,  i.  L'17. 

Brazen  Head.  A  gigantic  head  kept 
in  the  castle  of  the  giant  Fer'ragus,  of 
Portugal.  It  was  omniscient,  and  told 
those  who  consulted  it  whatever  they 
required  to  know,  i^ast,  present,  or  to 
come.     {Valentine  aj/d  Orson.) 

Brazen  out  (To).  To  stick  to  an 
assertion  knowing  it  to  be  wrong  ;  to 
outface  in  a  shameless  manner ;  to  dis- 
regard public  opinion. 

Breaches,  meaning  crcrl-s  or  small 
bf/i/s,  is  to  be  found  in  Judges  v.  17. 
Deborah,  complaining  of  the  tribes  who 
refused  to  assist  her  in  her  war  with 
Sisera,  says  Reuben  continued  in  his 
sheepfolds,    Gilead     remained    beyond 


Bread 


173 


Breath. 


Jordan,  Dan  in  ships,  and  Asher  in  his 
breaches,  that  is,  creeks  ou  the  sea- 
shore. 

Bread.     To  fjfrak  bread.    To  partake 
of  food.     Common  in  Scripture  langu- 
age.   Breaking  of  bread.    The  Eucharist. 
'•Tliey  continued  .  .  .  in  lu'eakin'-'cif  inead.and 
in  iiniyev^."— Acts  ii.  4:; ;  and  a;,'ain  viTse  -iii. 

Bread.  He  took  bread  and  salt,  i.e. 
he  took  his  oath.  Bread  and  salt  were 
formerly  eaten  when  an  oath  was  taken. 

Cast  thij  bread  upon  the  tvaters:  for  thou 
shalt  find  it  after  niant/  dai/s  (Eccles. 
xi.  1).  Wheu  the  Nile  ovei-flovvs  its 
banks  the  weeds  perish  and  the  soil  is 
disintegrated.  The  rice-seed  being  cast 
into  the  water  takes  root,  and  is  found 
in  due  time  growing  in  healthful  vigour. 

I)o>i''t  quarrel  icith  yonr  bread  and 
batter.  Don't  foolishly  give  up  the 
l^ursuit  by  which  you  earn  your  living. 

Tu  knotr  a'hii'h  side  one's  bread  is 
battered.  To  be  mindful  of  one's  own 
interest. 

To  take  the  bread  oat  of  one''s  month. 
To  forestall  another ;  to  say  something 
which  another  was  on  the  i^oiut  of 
saying ;  to  take  away  another's  liveli- 
hood.    {Sec  under  Butter.) 

Bread-basket  ( One's) .  The  stomach. 

Bread    and    Cheese.      The    barest 

necessities  of  life. 

Break  {To).  To  become  a  bankrupt. 
{See  Bankrupt.) 

To  break  a  bond.     To  dishonour  it. 

To  break  a  journeij.  To  stop  before 
the  journey  is  accomplished. 

To  break  a  matter  to  a  person.  To  be 
the  first  to  impart  it,  and  to  do  so 
cautiously  and  by  piecemeal. 

'To  break  bread.  To  partake  of  the 
Lord's  Supper. 

"  Uiifm  the  first  day  of  the  week,  when  the 
di-^ciples  came  together  to  break  Ijread,  Paul 
I'veaclied  to  them."— Acts  xx.  7. 

To  break  one's  fast.  To  take  food 
after  long  abstinence ;  to  eat  one's 
breakfast  after  the  night's  fast. 

To  tn-cak  one's  neck.  To  dislocate  the 
bones  of  one's  neck. 

2o  break  on  the  tcheel.  To  torture  one 
on  a  "wheel"  by  breaking  the  long 
bones  with  an  iron  bar.  {Cf.  Coup  de 
Grace.) 

To  break  a  butterf!;/  on  a  vheeJ.  To 
employ  superabundant  effort  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  a  small  matter. 

"Satire  or  sense,  alas  !  can  Sporus  feel, 

AVho  Itreaks  a  tnnterflv  upon  a  wheel." 

Pope :  Epistle  to  Dr.  Arhnthnot,  307-a. 

To  break  out  of  bounds.  To  go  beyond 
the  prescribed  limits. 


Break  Cover  {Td).  To  start  forth 
from  a  hiding-place. 

Break  Down  {Tu).  To  lose  all 
control  of  one's  feelings. 

Break  Faith  ( To).  To  violate  one's 
word  or  pledge. 

Break  Ground  {To).  To  commence 
a  new  project.     As  a  settler  does. 

Break  In  {To).  To  interpose  a  re- 
mark. To  train  a  horse  to  the  .saddle  or 
to  harness. 

Break  of  Day.    Day-break. 

'■'At  lu'e.'ik  of  (lav  1  will  cume  to  thee  ai-'.-iin." 
Wnnl^ii-iirth  :  Pet  Lamb,  stanza  l.".. 

Break  the  Ice  {To).  To  prepare 
the  way ;  to  cause  the  stiffness  and  re- 
serve of  intercourse  with  a  stranger  to 
relax :  to  impart  to  another  bit  by  bit 
distres.sing  news  or  a  delicate  subject. 

Break  your  Back  {To).  Make  you 
bankrupt.  The  metaphor  is  from  carry- 
ing burdens  on  the  back. 

I       Break  up  Housekeeping  (To).    To 

diseoutiuue  keeping  a  sej)arate  house, 

I       Break    with  One    {To).     To  cease 
1    from  intercourse. 

t       "  What  cause  have  I  given  hini  to  break  with 
me  ? " — Fliiiciice  MarriKit. 

Breakers  Ahead.     Hidden  danger 
at    hand.      Breakers    in    the    oijen   sea 
'    always  announce   sunken  rocks,   sand- 
banks, etc. 

Breaking  a  Stick.  Part  of  the 
marriage  ceremony  of  the  American 
Indians,  as  breaking  a  wine-glass  is 
part  of  the  marriage  ceremony  of  the 
Jews.  {Ladi/  Anr/usta  Hamilton  :  Mar- 
riage Bites,  etc.,  -iO'i,  298.) 

In  one  of  Raj)hael's  pictures  we  see 
an  unsuccessful  suitor  of  the  Virgin 
Mary  breaking  his  stick.  This  alludes 
to  the  legend  that  the  several  suitors 
were  each  to  bring  an  almond  stick, 
which  was  to  be  laid  up  in  the  sanctuary 
over-night,  and  the  owner  of  the  stick 
which  budded  was  to  be  accounted  the 
suitor  which  God  approved  of.  It  was 
thus  that  Joseph  became  the  husband 
of  Mary.  {Fscudo-Mattheiv's  Gospel, 
40,41.) 

In  Florence  is  a  picture  in  which  the 
rejected  suitors  break  their  sticks  on 
Joseijh's  back. 

Breast.  To  make  a  clean  breast  of  it. 
To  make  a  full  confession ;  concealing 
nothing. 

Breath.  ^iW  in  a  breath.  Without 
taking  breath.  (Latin,  continenti  spirita.) 


Breathe 


174 


Brevet  Rank 


It  talces  away  one's  hreaih.  The  news 
is  so  astouudiug  it  causes  one  to  hold  his 
breath  witli  svirprise. 

Out  of  breath.  Panting  from  exer- 
tion ;  temporarily  short  of  breath. 

Save  ijour  breath  to  cool  your  porr'ulye. 
Don't  talk  to  me,  it  is  only  wasting 
your  breath. 

"  You  iiiiglitliave  saveilyouv  brcatli  to  cool  your 
lion-idge."— 3/rs.  Gaslcell:  Llbbie  Mamk  (Era  11  li. 

To  eatch  one''s  breath.  To  check  sud- 
denly the  free  act  of  breathing. 

"  '  I  see  lior,'  reiilied  I,  nitcliing  my  breath  witli 
joy.''— CoJ(^  Marryiit:  I'cter  Simple. 

To  hold  one's  breath.  Voluntarily  to 
cease  breathing  for  a  time. 

To  take  breath.  To  cease  for  a  little 
time  from  some  exertion  in  order  to 
recover  from  exhaustion  of  breath. 

Under  o/ie's  breath.  In  a  whisper  or 
undertone  of  voice. 

Breathe.  To  breathe  one's  last.  To 
die. 

Br6che  de  Roland.  A  deep  defile 
in  the  crest  of  tlie  Pyrenees,  some  three 
liuudred  feet  in  width,  between  two  pre- 
cipitous rocks.  The  legend  is  that  Ro- 
land, the  paladin,  cleft  the  rock  iu  two 
with  his  sword  Durandal,  when  he  was 
set  upon  by  the  Gascons  at  lionces- 
valles. 

"  Tlien  would  I  seek  tlio  Pvreneau  l>reacli 
Which   Roland   clove  witli    liiisje   two-handed 
sway."  Woiilsiforlli. 

Breeches.  To  wear  the  breeches.  Said 
of  a  woman  who  usurps  the  prerogative 
of  her  husband.  Similar  to  2'he  yrey 
mare  is  the  better  horse.     {See  Geey.) 

The  phrase  is  common  to  the  French, 
Dutch,  Germans,  etc.,  as  lil/e  parte  Ics 
braies.  Die  rroaw  die  hosen  anhaben. 
Sie  hat  die  IliJ.veii. 

Breeches  Bible.     (See  Bible.) 

Breeze.  House-sweepings,  as  fluflf, 
dust,  ashes,  and  so  on,  thrown  as  refuse 
into  the  dust-bin.  We  generally  limit 
tlie  meaning  now  to  small  ashes  and 
cinders  used  for  coals  in  burning  bricks. 
The  word  is  a  corruption  of  the  French, 
debris  (rubbish,  or  rather  the  jjart  broken 
or  rubbed  off  by  wear,  tear,  and  stress 
of  weather).  The  French,  braise,  older 
form  brese,  means  small  coke  or  charcoal. 

The  Breeze-Jly.  The  gad-fly;  so  called 
from  _  its  sting.  (Anglo-Saxon,  briose  ; 
Gothic,  bry,  a  sting. ) 

Breeze.  A  gentle  ■wind  or  gale. 
(French,  brise,  a  breeze.)  Figuratively, 
a  slight  quarrel. 


Breidablik  {wide  -  shining'].  The 
palace  of  Baldur,  which  stood  in  the 
Milky  Way.     (Scandinavian  mytliology.) 

Brennus.  A  Latin  form  of  the 
Kymric  word  Brenhin  (a  war-chief). 
In  times  of  danger  the  Druids  appointed 
a  hroii!  to  lead  the  confederate  tribes  to 
battle. 

Brent.  Without  a  wrinkle.  Burns 
says  of  John  Anderson,  in  his  jiriine  of 
life,  his  "locks  were  like  the  raven," 
and  his  "  bonnie  brow  was  brent" 
(without  a  wrinkle). 

Brent-goose  (A).  Properly  a  brant- 
goose,  the  braata  berniela,  a  brownish- 
grey  goose  of  the  genus  branta. 

"  For  the  people  of  the  village 
S.uv  the  tloek  of  brant  with  wonder." 
Luiu/fiUow :  Hiawatha,  part  xvi.  stanza  32. 

Brent-hill  means  the  eyebrows. 

Looking  or  gazing  from  under  brent- 
Jtill.  In  Devonshire  means  "  fi-owning 
at  one  ;  "  and  in  West  Coriawall  to  bread 
means  to  wrinkle  the  brows.  It  is  very 
remarkable  that  the  word  should  have 
such  opposite  meanings. 

Brentford.  Like  the  two  kings  of 
Brentford  smelling  at  one  nosegay.  Said 
of  persons  who  were  once  rivals,  but 
have  become  reconciled.  The  allusion 
is  to  an  old  farce  called  Tlie  Rehearsal, 
by  the  Duke  of  Buckingham.  "The 
two  kings  of  Brentford  enter  hand  in 
hand,"  and  the  actors,  to  heighten  the 
absurdity,  used  to  make  them  enter 
"  smelling  at  one  nosegay  "  (act  ii.  s.  2). 

Bressommer,  or  Brest -summer. 
(French,  sommicr,  a  lintel  or  bressnmmer.) 
A  beam  supporting  the  whole  weight  of 
the  building  above  it ;  as,  the  beam  over 
a  shop-front,  the  beam  extending  over 
an  opening  through  a  wall  when  a 
communication  lietween  two  contiguous 
rooms  is  required.  Sometimes  these 
beams  support  a  large  superstructure. 
(The  word  bress,  brest,  or  breast,  in  car- 
pentry, means  a  rafter,  and  the  German 
bret:=a  plank.) 

Bretwalda  (raler  rf  Britain).  Tlie 
chief  of  the  kings  of  the  heptarchy  who 
exercised  a  certain  undefined  power  over 
the  other  rulers  ;  something  like  that  of 
Hugues  Cap'et  over  his  jieers. 

"The  office  of  Bretwahla,  a  kind  of  elective 
chieftainship,  of  all  Britain,  was  held  by  several 
Northumbrian  kings,  iu  succes.sion." —  £«?•/<•  .- 
English  'J'umjuc,  p.  L'ti. 

Brevet  Rank  is  rank  one  degree 
higher  than  your  pay.  Thus,  a  brevet- 
major  has  the  title  of  major,  but  the 


Breviary 


17.1 


Brick-tea 


pay    of    captain.      (French,    brcref,     a 
patent,  a  concession.) 

Breviary.  An  epitome  of  the  old 
office  of  matins  and  lauds  for  daily 
service  in  the  Koman  Catholic  Church. 
The  Breviary  contains  the  daily  ' '  Divine 
Office,"  which  those  in  orders  in  the 
Catholic  Church  are  bound  to  recite. 
The  office  consists  of  psalms,  collects, 
readings  from  Scripture,  and  tlie  life  of 
some  saint  or  saints. 

Brew.  Brew  me  a  glass  of  grog,  i.e. 
mix  one  for  me.  Brew  me  a  cup  of  tea, 
I.e.  make  one  for  rae.  T/ie  tea  is  set  to 
lireir,  i.e.  to  draw.  The  general  meaning 
of  the  word  is  to  boil  or  mi.x  ;  the  re- 
stricted meaning  is  to  make  malt  liquor. 

Brewer.  The  Brewer  of  Ghent .  James 
van  Artevelde.     (Fourteenth  century.) 

It  may  here  be  remarked  that  it  is  a 
great  error  to  derive  proper  names  of 
any  antiquity  from  modern  words  of  a 
siinilir  sound  or  sjjelling.  As  a  rule, 
very  few  ancient  names  ai'e  the  names 
of  trailes ;  and  to  su^jpose  that  such 
words  as  Bacon,  Hogg,  and  I'igg  refer 
to  swineherds,  or  Uaiter,  Miller,  Tanner, 
Kinger,  and  Bottles  to  handicrafts,  is 
a  great  mistake.  A  few  examples  of  a 
more  scientific  derivation  will  suffice  for 
a  hint :  — 

Brewer.  This  name,  which  exists  in 
France  as  Bruhiere  and  Brugiere,  is  not 
derived  from  the  Saxon  briicdii  (to  brew), 
but  the  French  hriigere  (heath),  and  is 
about  tantamount  to  the  German  "  Plan- 
tageuet  "  {broom-plant).  {See  Rymer's 
Fmlera,  William  I.) 

Bacon  is  from  the  High  Germaii 
verb  hagan  (to  fight),  and  means  "the 
fighter." 

PiGG  and  Bigg  are  from  the  old  High 
German  pichan  (to  slash). 

Hogg  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  hgge 
(scholar),  from  the  verb  hogan  (to 
study).  In  some  cases  it  may  be  from 
the  Crerman  hoch  (high). 

Bottle  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  Bod'-el 
(little  envoy).  Norse,  hodi  ;  Danish, 
bad. 

Gaiter  is  the  Saxon  Gaidcr  (the 
darter).     Celtic,  gais,  oiiv  goad. 

Miller  is  the  old  Norse,  melia,  our 
null  and  maul,  and  means  a  "mauler" 
or  "  fighter." 

Rixgee  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  hrlng  gar 
(the  mailed  warrior). 

Smith  is  the  man  who  smites. 

Tanner  (German  Thaiiger,  old  Ger- 
man Danegand)  is  the  Dane-Goth. 

This  list  might  easily  be  extended. 


Briar  eos  or  ^Egc'on.  A  giant  with 
fifty  heads  and  a  hundred  hands.  Homer 
says  the  gods  called  him  Briar'eos,  but 
men  called  him  ^geon.     {Iliad,  i.  403.) 

"  Not  lie  will)  braiulisbed  in  his  luiiulreil  liands 
His  lifiy  swords  and  fifty  sliields  in  llulir, 
L'lnild    liave    surpassed    tlie    lierce   Argantes' 
might." 

'fasso:  Jerusalem  Delivered,  biidk  vii. 

The  Briarens  of  languages.  Cardinal 
Mezzofauti,  who  knew  fifty-eight  dif- 
ferent tongues.  Byron  called  him  "  a 
walking  polyglot;  a  monster  of  lan- 
guages ;  a  Briareus  of  parts  of  speech." 
(1774  -  1849.)  Generally  pronounced 
Bri'-a-ruee. 

Bold  Briareus.     Handel  (lG8r)-17.")6). 

3riar-root  Pipe.  A  pipe  made  from 
the  root-wood  of  the  large  heatli(/i/7^//e;Y), 
which  grows  in  the  south  of  France. 

Bribo'ci.  Inhabitants  of  part  of 
Berkshire  and  the  adjacent  counties 
referred  to  by  Ctesar  in  his  Commen- 
taries. 

Bric-^-brac.  Odds  and  ends  of 
curiosities.  In  French,  a  vuircliaud  de 
brie-d-brac  is  a  seller  of  rubbish,  as  old 
nails,  old  screws,  old  hinges,  and  other 
odds  and  ends  of  small  value  ;  but  we 
employ  the  j)hrase  for  odds  and  ends  of 
vertu.  {Bricoler  in  archaic  French 
means  Faire  toate  espece  de  metier,  to  b  ■ 
Jack  of  all  trades.  Brae  is  the  ricochet 
of  brie,  as  fiddle-faddle  and  scores  of 
other  double  words  in  English. ) 

"A  mail  with  a  iiassimi  fur  brio-a-brac  is 
always  stuiiililiug  uvei'aiitiiiue  liroiizes,  intaglios, 
mosaics,  aud  daggers  of  the  time  of  Benveuuto 
Celliui."— JMj'ic/t;  Miss  Mehetable's  Son,  chap.  ii. 

Brick.      A  regular  brick.     A   jolly 

good  fellow.       (Compare  TeTpaywi'o?  au^p  ; 

"square";    and    "four-square    to    all 
the  winds  that  blow.") 

"A  fellow  like  iiobodv  else,  aud,  in  fine,  a 
brick. "-CJeoj-i/p  Jiliot:  Duniel  Deroiulu,  book  ii. 
chai>.  16. 

Brick-and-mortar  Franchise.     A 

Chartist  phrase  for  the   £10  household 
system,  now  abolished. 

Brickdusts.  The  oSrd  Foot;  so 
called  from  tlie  brickdust-red  colour  of 
their  facings.  Also  called  Fire-and- 
tltrc" pennies,  a  play  on  the  number  and 
tlaily  pay  of  the  ensigns. 

Now  called  the  1st  battalion  of  the 
"King's  Shropshire  Light  Infantry." 
The  2ud  battahon  is  the  old  8.5tli. 

Brick-tea.  The  inferior  leaves  of  the 
tea-plant  mixed  with  sheep's  blood  aud 


Bride 


17« 


B  rid  port 


pressed  into  cubes ;  the  ordinary  drink  of 
tlio  common  people  south  of  Moscow. 

"Tlie  Tartiir*  swill  n  li.irrllile  Kriiel,  lliifk  nnd 
Kliili,  i)t  lirirk-U'ii,  mii't,  wtit,  iwl'l-T,  uikI  »iiKnr, 
Ixiilcd  III  11  .liiililr.iii  mu).'— r/»e  iMnlit  fetet/ritph, 
Kniliiy,  Dciolier  lutli,  liwl. 

Bride.  Thchtitltl  wnnth  is  a  relic  of 
tlu!  curo'iin  miptiiiiis  uscil  by  the  Uroc-ks 
iiud  Uoinaiis  to  indicate  triumph. 

Bride  Cake.  A  relic  of  the  Roman 
Coiit'arnatin,  a  mode  of  miinia<»o  prac- 
tised by  tho  liighcst  chiss  in  Rome.  It 
was  performed  before  tea  witnesses  by 
the  I'uu'tifex  Max'imus,  and  tho  coii- 
tnictiug  jiarties  mutually  partouk  of  a 
cake  made  of  salt,  water,  and  Hour 
(/(//•).  Only  those  born  in  such  wedlock 
were  elitrible  for  the  hif^h  sac  re  1  ottices. 

Bride  or  Wedding  Favours  repre- 
sent tiie  Inif  li/r,r'.s  /:,i  ,f,  and  symbolise 
union. 

Bride  of  Aby'dos.  Ziileika,  daughtei 
of  (iiallii-,  J'acha  uf  Aby'dos.  As  she 
was  uovi-r  wed,  slie  sliould  bo  culled  tho 
atU meed  or  betrothrd.     {/Ii/ron.) 

Bride     of    Lammormoor.       Lucy 

Aslit  ill.    {Si-iit/ :  Itnil-  uj  l.iiinnfiiit'Ktr.) 

Bride  of  the  Sea.  Venice  ;  wi  call«»«l 
fiiiin  till'  ainiint  ci-remouy  of  th--  I>  >>»e, 
who  thnw  a  riiij^  into  tho  Adriatic, 
savin;;,  •'  We  wed  thei-,  O  sea,  iu  token 
of  per|i<'tual  d<imination." 

Bridegroom  is  the  old  Dutch  prom 
(a  vouii^;  man).  Thus,  (irifuii  o/t/f  Stole 
is  the  youii}?  man  over  tho  wardrobe. 
(.Troom,  an  ostler,  is  ijiiite  another  word, 
being  the  I'ersian  ijunni  (a  keeper  of 
liorses),  unless,  indeed,  it  is  a  contracted 
form  of  stable-groom  (st4ible-b<>y).  The 
Anglo  Saxon  Uri/il-i/mnit  (guma  =  man) 
confused  with  groom,  a  lad. 

Bridegroom's  Men.    In  the  Roman 

inania;40  liy  riiiifiirrrut m,  the  bride  was 
led  to  tlio  i'outit'ex  Max'imus  by  bache- 
lors, but  was  conducted  home  by  married 
men.  I'olydore  Virgil  says  that  a  married 
man  preceded  the  bride  on  her  return, 
hearing  a  vessel  of  gold  and  silver.  {Str 
iSuiDE  Cake.) 

BridewelL  The  city  Bride  well. 
Bridge  Street,  Blackfriars,  was  built  over 
a  holy  well  of  medical  water,  called  St. 
Bride's  Well,  where  was  founded  a 
liospital  for  the  poor.  After  the  Re- 
lorniatiou,  Edward  VI.  chartered  this 
hosiiital  to  the  city.  Christ  Church  was 
given  to  the  education  of  the  young : 
St.  Thomas's  Hospital  to  the  cure  of 
the  sick  ;  and  Bridewell  w;is  made  a 
penitentiary  for  unruly  apprentices 
and  vagrants. 


BlidC*  of    Gold.      A'<'.rdlh;{   t.>   u 
Uenn.-iii  trailitjon,  I'hai 
cr<iHH<^!<  the  Rhine  oil  a 

Hi..  ' 

tli 

c    AtUmmm. 

.Viitlf  a  hr'tdije  ■>  htm  ;   *.e. 

enabling  a  man  to  ri-tifut  Intm  a  falae 
])*)sitioii  without  losH  of  dignity. 
Bridge  of  Johennam.  i  ">  >  Skbat.) 
Bridge  of  Slgha,  n^Iu'  li  '"iiU''<  ts  thu 
palaie  ol  the  li.igc  with  tie- tt.itf  prison-i 
of  Venice.  Over  this  bridgf  the  statu 
pri.soners  were  ojnveyed  from  thf  judg- 
ment-hall to  tho  pLice  of  execution. 

'•  I  «1...mI  III  Vfiii.-c.  i>il  llw  llri.Ui-  .if  rti^lii, 
A  inliirc  itml  It  |iri«<iii  ml  ciili  lutinl.  ' 

Ityrun:  VtnUle  Untold  »  I'UgrtmitiJf,  \\ .  I. 

V  Waterloo  Bridge,  in  I/ondon,  umhI, 
Home  years  ago,  when  suiciden  wore 
fre<iuent  there,  to  bo  calleil   Tlir  Itrtdtje 

o/.Su//,n. 

Brldgowator     Troatisoa.        In.<iti- 

tiit.'l  liy  til.'  K"  hriii  I-  M-nry  Kger- 
ton,  Karl  ..I    I  IH.'.'i.      He 

loft  thf  iiiti'i  "  given  to 

the  author  111  ...  on  "Tho 

piwiT,  wi.Hdom.  and    g.>o«ln<*«w  of  0<¥l, 
an  maiiifi'st.'.l  in  i-rfaM'ti."       Fis'ht  an* 
pubh-h.-d  by  thef.ill.iwi'  n:    - 

(I)   Th..    R.'v.    Dr.    Cli  Dr. 

John   Kidil,   (,:()  th«  R.^     .>..    ....well, 

(1)  Sir  Charl.'s  Bell,  (.■»)  Dr.  I'.-t.-r  .M. 
Roget,  (tJ)  the  Rev.  Dr.  Bu«  kland.  (7) 
tho  Rev.  W.  Kirby,  and  («)  Dr.  William 
I'roiit. 

Bridle.  To  hii,-  on  thi-  hrulU  is  to 
sutT.-r  great  hardships.  Tin'  bri.lle  w;ui 
an  instriimi^nt  for  punishing  a  scold  : 
to  bite  oil  tho  bridle  Ls  to  suiTer  Uiiii 
punishment. 

Bridle  Road  or  Way.  A  way  for  a 
ridm:,'-liiir-.',  Imt  in  .t  I'orahorse  and  eart. 

Bridle  up  (/'")•  I"  French,  sr 
rtiiiinnirr,  to  draw  in  tin?  chin  and  toss 
the  head  back  in  scorn  or  pridi-.  The 
metaphor  is  to  a  hr)rse  pulli-d  up  sud- 
denly and  sharjdy. 

Bridlegoose  (.//<'A/r),orBridoie.  who 
j  decidi'd  the  raases  brought  to  him  by 
I  the  throw  of  dice,  {hnlteluix  :  (jurtjanlmi 
\    tind  I'd n ((Iff  rut/,  iii.  U'J.) 

Bridport.  Stahhcd  trilh  a  Brldport 
diKjijir,  I.e.  hanged.  Bridport,  in  Dorset- 
shire, was  once  famous  for  its  hempen 
goods,  and  monopolised  the  manufacture 
of  ropes,  cables,  and  tackling  for  the 
British  navy.  The  hangman's  rojie  being 
made  at  Bridport  gave  birth  to  the 
proverb.     {Fuller :   irorthies.) 


Brigadore 


177 


Brisk 


Brig  adore  ('i  syl.).     {-^'f  Hoese.) 

Brigand  i>ioj)erly  means  a  setlitious 
follow.  'Ihc  Jini/iimfi  WL-vii  lif;lit-aniie(.l, 
irrcfTular  troops,  like  the  Ba-shi-Biucoiiks, 
and  like  them  were  addicted  to  maniud- 
iiij;.  The  I'ltf  ( 'oiiiptiiiitK  of  France  were 
Brigands.  (Italian,  bnyaitU,  seditious  ; 
biiijd,  variance.) 

Brigondino.  Tlio  armour  of  a 
brigand,  consisting  of  small  plates  of 
iron  ou  quilted  linen,  and  covered  with 
leather,  hemp,  or  something  of  the  kind. 

Brlgantlno  (:{ .^yl.)  or  Jltimti/j/irodih 
ling.  A  two-masted  vessel  with  a  brig's 
foremast  and  a  schooner's  mainmast. 
(Jfaiid'n  dcuiiiiin'a  JI<iiiu<il.)  A  pirate 
ves.scl. 

Brlght's  Disease.  A  degeneration 
of  tli<-  tiN^-iK.s  oi  thf  kidneys  into  fat, 
tirst  investigated  bv  iJr.  Bright.  The 
patient  under  this  disease  has  a  flabby, 
hloodlcM  ajiiH-arance,  is  always  diowsy, 
and  eiisily  fatigued. 

Brigians.  The  Ciistilians  ;  so  called 
frnni  ciiif  uf  tlieir  ancient  kings,  nanie<l 
Brix  or  Brigus,  said  by  monkish  fabulists 
to  be  the  granilson  of  Noali. 

'■  Kilw:iril  nml  IVilin.  riiiiiloiis  c.f  fiimi-  .  .  . 
Tlirii"   the   lltTce   Uriumus  lii'Wril  ilirir  Moo'ly 

Till  in  u  cuUl  enilinico  tlie  mrii'liii'-'-*  l;».v. 
Brigliado'ro.     ';  Vf  IIohsk.) 

Brilliant  ftlodmon  (7'//';.  Charles 
Xll.  of  Sweden.     (1082-1097-1718.) 

••  >l:ii  0(l"iii:i'«  iniKltiriii  nr  tin- .SwinIc." 

JtiliiifiiH  r  Vtniity  '•/  IliiiHtiii  H'laArf. 

Brlncy  or  Briny.     I'ln  on  the  biiinj. 

Thi'  s<  .1,  whi'  h  is  s;ilt  like  brine. 

Bring  About  (7'")-  To  cause  a  thing 
to  !«■  dun.'. 

Bring  Down  tbo  House  {Tu).  To 
cause  raptuiiiui  .ijniliu-''  in  a  theatre. 

Bring  into  Play  (7^).    To  cause  to 

act,  to  M.t  in  niutinn. 

Bring  Round  (T"-).  To  restore  to 
oimscinu.sne.ss  <>r  liealth  ;  to  cause  one  to 
recover  [from  a  tit,  etc.]. 

Bring  To  (To).  To  restore  to  con- 
sciousness ;  to  resuscitate.  Muuy  other 
uicaiiings. 

•••  rill'rinc  bcrt">,"iinl"I  tlie<lrivcr.  with  a  l>riil;il 

LTiii  :  '111   i.'ii.-  Ill  r  >'>iii>-lliiiii:  I«-ltor  lUaii  oitu- 
lli"!  .■  ■  — .1// V  Wiiff  .-  l'<id<  Tkih's  Viibin. 

Bring  to  Bear  (Tl).  To  cause  to 
h.ipi)eu  sucoesafuUy. 

Bring  to  Book  ( Tu).  To  detect  oue 
ill  a  mistake. 


Bring  to  Pass  {To). 

happen. 

12 


To  cause  to 


Bring  to  the  Hammer  {To).     To 

otter  or  sell  by  public  auction. 

Bring  Under  {Tu).  To  bring  iuto 
subjection. 

Bring  Up  (7^.*).  To  rear  from  birth 
or  an  early  age.  Also  uumerous  other 
meanings. 

Brioche  (2  syl.).  A  sort  of  bun  or 
cake  cumniuu  in  France,  and  now  pretty 
generally  sold  in  England.  When  Marie 
Antoinette  was  talking  about  the  bread 
riots  of  Paris  duiiug  the  3th  and 
Gth  Octoljer,  1789,  the  Duchessc  do 
Boliguac  naively  exclaimed,  **  How  is  it 
that  these  silly  i)eople  are  so  clamorous 
inr  Oitd'/,  when  they  cjiu  buy  such  nice 
brioches  for  a  few  sous  :  "  This  was  in 
spirit  not  unlike  tlie  remark  of  our  own 
Princess  Charlotte,  who  avowed  "that 
she  would  for  her  jiart  tul/ier  cut  hirf 
tliiiii  utanr,"  and  wondered  that  the 
l)cople  sliould  be  so  obstinate  as  to  insist 
up<ju  having  bread  wheu  it  was  so 
scarce. 

Bris.  II  couto  di  Sau  Bris,  governor 
of  the  Louvre,  was  father  of  Valentina, 
and  leader  of  the  St.  Bartholomew  nias- 
siicrc.  {.Vfi/irbtrr^n  Ojjoa:  O'lt  I'ljoiiolti.) 

Brisels  (3  syl.).  The  patronymic 
iiamo  of  Ilippodamia.  daughter  of 
Briseiis  (2  syl.).  A  concubine  of  Achilles, 
to  whom  he  was  greatly  attached. 
When  Agamemnon  was  comi)elled  to 
give  up  Ills  own  concubine,  who  w;us  the 
daughter  of  a  priest  of  Apollo,  he  took 
BrLseis  away  from  Achilles.  This  so 
annoyed  the  hero  that  he  refused  any 
longer  to  go  to  battle,  and  the  Greeks 
lost  giound  daily.  Ultimately,  Achilles 
sent  his  friend  Patroclos  to  supply  his 
place.  Patroclos  w;is  slain,  and  Achilles, 
towering  with  rage,  rushed  to  battle, 
slew  Hector,  and  Troy  fell. 

Brisingamen.  Frevja's  necklace 
made  by  tin;  fairies,  treyja  left  her 
liusband  Odin  in  order  to  obtain  this 
necklace  ;  and  Odin  deserted  her  because 
her  love  was  changed  into  vanity.  It  is 
not  possible  to  love  Brisingamen  and 
Odin  too,  for  no  one  can  serve  two 
masters. 

As  a  moral  tale  this  is  excellent.  If 
Freyja  personifies  "  the  beauty  of  the 
year,"  then  the  uccklmr  means  the  rich 
autumn  tints  and  flowers,  which  (soon 
as  Freyja  puts  ou)  her  husband  leaves 
her— that  is,  the  fertility  of  the  genial 
year  is  gone  away,  and  winter  is  at 
band. 

Brisk  as  a  Bee.    {S'C  Similes.) 


Brissotins 


178 


Brittany 


Brissotins.     A  nickname  given  to   | 

the  advocates  of  reforiu  in  the  Ficncli 
llevolutioii,    because    they    were   *'  led 
hy  the  nose"  by  Jean  Piene  Brissot.    | 
The  party  was  subsei|iieutly  called  the 

Girondists. 

Bristol  Board.  A  stiff  drawing- 
jiaper,  originally  niauufacturedat Bristol. 

Bristol  Boy  {The).     Thomas  Chat- 

terton  the  poet  (17J"i-1770). 

"The  inarvflloiis  liciy, 
Tbc  slceiiless  soul  tliat  i>i'ilslicil  in  liis  iiriile." 
Woidswnrth:  Itisuliitioii  and  hidi tiimknce. 

Bristol  Diamonds.  Brilliant  crys- 
tals of  colourless  cpiartz  found  in  St. 
Vincent's  Itock,  Clifton,  near  Bristol. 

Bristol  Fashion  {In)-  Melhodicul 
and  orderly.  More  ^euerally  "yiiip- 
shapo  and  Bristol  fashion." 

•'  III  llic  Kical  m.-iss  iiicctiin:,  Ocli.lpor  l>lli,  l!«.*-l, 
■A  iiiiui'  iit'alio\o  llircc  iiiilf^  was  olpstTxt'il  In  unc 
unlinikoii  line.  N<i  clictiiin.'  illstnrlifd  Hie  siatclv 
Kiili'ninit.\  ;  ni)  nne  ran  to  >-'i\f  any  Uirciiinn;  n'l 
noise  lit'  any  kind  wa.-?  Iieaiil:  l>nl  on,  in  oni-  iin- 
liiiiken  line,  sieady  and  .•.ijirely,  niiirt'lii'il  tin' 
til  ion  trill'  Urjs  tol  fashion.' "—iiiM/i;.Veir,<,OiUil)ei- 
JUtli,  L^t. 

Bristol  Milk.  Sliorry  sack,  at  one 
time  given  by  the  Bristol  people  to  tlieu' 
friends. 

"  This  inctJiphnriral  milk,  wlierrliy  Xoii'S  or 
h<licny-9;ick  is  intcnili-il."— >'«Her;   HciW/iirn. 

Bristol  Waters.  Mineral  waters  of 
Clifton,  iKvir  Biistol,  with  a  temperature 
not  exceeding  71  ;  formerly  celebrated 
in  c;iscs  of  pulmonary  consuniptiou. 
They  are  very  rarely  used  now. 

Britain.  Bv  far  the  most  probable 
derivation  of  this  word  is  that  given  by 
Bochart,  from  the  Pheenician  lidrutaittc 
(country  of  tin),  contracted  into  B'ratau'. 
The  Greek  CKs.sitrfidc.s  (tin  islands)  is  a 
translation  of  Baratanic,  once  applied  to 
the  whole  known  gronji,  but  now  re- 
stricted to  the  Scilly  Isles.  Aristotle, 
who  lived  some  350  years  before  the 
Christian  era,  calls  the  island  Britaiinic, 
which  is  so  close  to  IP  rat  an  ic  that  the 
suggestion  of  Bochart  can  scarcely  admit 
of  a  doubt.     {Ih'  Jf'd/ifo,  sec.  o.) 

Pliny  says,  "  Opposite  to  Celtiberia  are 
a  number  of  islands  which  the  Greeks 
called  '  Cassiterides '  "  (evidently  he 
means  the  British  group).  Strabo  says 
the  Cassiterides  are  situated  about  the 
same  latitude  as  Britain. 

Great  Britain  consists  of  "Britannia 
prima"  (England),  "Britannia  secunda" 
(Wales),  and  "North  Britain"  (Scot- 
laud),  united  imder  one  sway. 

Greater  Britain.  The  whole  British 
empire. 

Britannia.  The  first  known  repre- 
sentation of  Britannia  as  a  female  figure 


sitting  on  a  globe,  leaning  with  one  arm 
on  a  shield,  and  grasjiing  a  sjicar  in  the 
other  hauil,  is  on  u  iComan  coin  of 
Antoninus  Pius,  who  died  A. D.  IGl. 
Tlie  figure  reappeared  on  our  cojiper 
coin  in  tlie  reign  of  Charles  II.,  IGO.j, 
and  the  model  was  Miss  Stewart,  after- 
wards crcateil  Due]ie.<s  of  Bichniond. 
The  engiaver  was  Pliiiip  Roetier,  IGGo. 
In  18'Jo  W.  Wyon  made  a  new  design. 

"The  Kind's  new  niedjiU,  wheie,  in  lillle.  there 
in  Mr.s.  Hlewart'ij  fare,  .  .  ,  anil  a  ineity  tliiiiu  It 
is,  that  he  sliould  climise  lier  fare  to  rei>reM.'iit 
Uritaiinia  liy."~Pii>!i«'  JiUiiy  C-'J  Kcl>.). 

British  Lion  (7'/").  The  pugnacity 
of  tin;  British  nation,  as  oi>posetl  to  tlio 
Jo/i/i  Ball,  whidi  symbiihses  the  sub- 
stantiahty,  solidity,  and  obstinacy  of  the 
l)eoplc,  with  all  their  prejutlices  and 
national  peculiarities. 

To  roimv  (he  British  Lion  is  to  flourish 
a  red  flag  in  the  face  of  John  Bull ;  to 
provoke  liiin  to  resistance  even  to  the 
jioint  of  war. 

"  To  twist  the  lion's  tiiil  "  is  a  favour- 
ite phnuso  and  favourite  policy  with 
some  rival  inifriendly  powers. 

Britomart  [I'a-eet  maitl]  (see  Mou). 
Daughter  of  King  Kyence  of  Wales, 
whose  tlcsiio  was  to  be  a  lieroine.  Siie 
is  the  impersonation  of  saintly  cha.stify 
aud  purity  of  mind.  She  encountei-s  tlie 
"  savage,  fierce  bandit  and  mountaineer" 
without  injury  ;  is  assailed  by  "  hag  and 
unlaid  ghost,  goblin,  ami  swart  fairy  of 
the  mine,"  but  "  dashes  their  lirute  vio- 
lence into  sudden  adoration  and  blank 
awe."  Britomart  is  not  the  imjieisona- 
tiou  of  celibacy,  as  she  is  in  love  with 
an  unknown  hero,  but  of  "virgin 
purity."  {Spenser:  I'aerie  Queene,  hook 
iii.     Her  marriage,  book  v.  6.) 

".She  eharnud  at  iiiice  and  tamed  the  heart, 
Mii-iiiniianiliie  Briloiiiart."  licoU. 

Brit'omartis.  A  Cretan  nymi)h, 
very  fond  of  the  cha.se.  King  Minos  fell 
in  love  with  her,  and  persisted  in  liis 
advances  for  nine  months,  when  she 
threw  herself  into  the  sea.  (Cretan, 
briias-niartis,  sweet  maiden.) 

Briton  {Like  a).  Vigorously,  perse- 
veringly.  "  To  fight  like  a  Briton  "  is 
to  tight  with  indomitable  courage.  "  To 
work  like  a  Briton  "  is  to  work  hard  and 
perseveringly.  Certiiiidy,  without  the 
sUghtest  flattery,  dogged  courage  and 
perseverance  are  the  strong  characteiis- 
tics  of  John  Bull.  A  similar  phrase  is 
"  To  fight  like  a  Trojan." 

Brit'tany.  The  damsel  of  Brittany. 
Eleanora,  daughter  of  Geoffrey,  second 
son  of  Henry  II.,  King  of  England  and 
Duke   of  Brittany.      At   the    death    of 


Broach 


179 


Broker 


Priucc!  Artlmr  slic  •\vas  the  real  heir  to 
tli.0  Clown,  but  Joliii  coniincd  licr  iu  the 
custle  of  Bristol  till  death  (Till). 

Broach.  To  hroavh  a  iicir  si(hjtct. 
To  start  one  in  couvcrsatiou.  The  allu- 
siou  is  to  beer  tubs.  If  oue  is  flat, 
another  must  be  tapped.  A  broach  is  a 
peg  or  pin,  and  to  broach  a  ctisk  is  to 
bore  a  hole  iu  the  top  for  the  veut-pej,'. 

"  I  did  hriciili  I  Ills  biisiiirss  tn  yniir  lii'-'lincss. " 
•s/Kt/as/'fKre;  lltnnj  VII I.,  ii.  1. 

Broad  as  Long.  ^Tis  ahonlanhroml 
IIS  it  IS  lutiij.  One  way  or  the  other 
would  bring  about  the  same  result. 

Broad  Arrow  on  Government  stores. 
It  was  the  (ii^fiiisMnce  of  Henry,  Viscount 
Sydney,  Earl  at  Konnicy,  niastcr-geueral 
of  the  ordnance.     (16!)o-170"i.)     ^ 

V  It  seems  like  a  symbol  of  the  Trin- 
ity, and  Wh.irton  says,  "  It  was  used  by 
the  Kelts  to  signify  holiness  and  royalty." 

Broad  Bottom  Ministry  (17H). 
Funned  by  a  (  oalitioiKif  p.'rties  :  I'clham 
retained  the  lead :  I'itt  sui)i)orted  the 
(loveriiment ;  Biibb  Doddiugtou  was 
treasurer  of  the  uavy. 

Broadcloth.  The  best  cloth  for 
men's  cl'^tlies.  So  called  from  its  great 
breadth.  It  required  two  weavers,  side 
by  side,  to  fling  the  shuttle  across  it. 
Originally  two  yards  wide,  now  about 
fifty-four  inches  ;  but  the  word  is  now 
used  to  signify  the  best  quality  of 
(black)  doth. 

Broadside.  I'linted  matter  spread 
over  an  entire  sheet  of  ))aper.  The 
whole  must  be  in  one  type  and  oue 
measure,  i.i.  must  not  be  divided  into 
columus.  A  folio  is  when  the  sheet  is 
foldeil,  iu  which  case  a  page  occupies 
ouly  half  the  sheet. 

•'  I'ami'ldi'ts  iuiil  Iiri>;ulsi(le3  wpiv  scattereil 
liu'lit  :iiid  WU.'  —I'iike  :  Amnricaii,  UUttiiy,  djap. 
\ii.  1'.  :ill. 

Iu  naval  language,  a  hromhifte  means 
the  whole  side  of  a  ship  ;  and  to  "  open 
a  broadside  on  the  enemy  "  is  to  dis- 
charge all  the  guns  on  oue  side  at  the 
same  muuient. 

Brobdingnag.  The  couidry  of  gi- 
gantic giants,  to  whom  Gulliver  was  a 
pigmy  "  uot  half  so  big  as  a  round  little 
woiTu  plucked  from  the  lazy  tiiiger  of 
a  maid." 

"  Villi  liiv'li  chnrdi  steeple,  you  miwk.v  stau, 
Yiuir  liiisl'aiid  must  cdur-  froiii  Brolnlini-'Tiat,'." 
A'ttde  O'llara:  Midun. 

Brobdingnagian.    Colossal ;  tall  as 
a  church  steeple.     {Hec  above.) 
^ "  I.iiiilis  uf  Brubdingnasian  iiroiioitiuiis."— T/te 


Brockcn.  Tlir  spirfrc of  the  Bnx-li'ii. 
This  is  tlie  shadow  of  men  and  other 
objects  greatly  magnified  and  reflected 
ill  the  mist  and  cloud  of  the  mountain 
opposite.  The  Brockcn  is  the  highest 
summit  of  the  Harz  range. 

Brocklehurst  {Thv  Jlir.  llohcrt).  A 
Calviiiistic  clergyman,  the  son  of  Naomi 
Brocklehurst,  of  Brocklehurst  Hall,  part 
founder  of  Lowood  Institutimi,  wlieie 
young  ladies  were  boarded,  clotlu^l,  and 
taught  for  £1.)  a  year,  su])sidiscd  l>y 
private  subscriptions.  The  Kev.  lit^bcrt 
Brocklehurst  was  treasurer,  and  half 
starved  the  iumatcs  in  order  to  augment 
bis  own  income,  and  scared  the  childicii 
by  talking  to  them  of  hell-lire,  ;iTid 
making  capital  out  of  their  young  faults 
or  supposed  shortcomings.  He  and  liis 
fumily  fared  sumptuously  every  day,  but 
made  the  inmates  of  his  institution  deny 
themselves  and  carry  the  cross  of  vexa- 
tion and  want.     (C  Bruiitc  :  Jiiiw  Kji'i .) 

Brogue  (1  syl.)  ]n-opcrly  means  the 
Irish  bruij,  or  shoe  of  rough  hide.  Tlie 
application  of  hmij  to  the  dialect  or 
manner  of  speaking  is  similar  to  that  of 
buskiu  to  tragedy  and  sock  to  comedy. 
•■.\iid  imt  my  clmitfd  lii(n.-ues  fnnii  nir  my  foet." 
Sliakc-i/iearc  :  Cijiubciiiic,  iv.  :.'. 

Brogues  (1  syl.).  Trousers.  From 
the  Irisli  //i'di/,  resembling  those  still  worn 
by  some  of  tlie  French  cavalry,  in  which 
trousers  and  boots  are  all  oue  garment. 

Broken  Feather  (.i).  A  broken 
fiiithcr  III  Iii.s  iniiij.  A  scandal  couuccted 
with  one's  character. 

"  If  an  angel  were  to  walk  alioui,  Mrs.  Sam 
Hurst  would  never  rest  till  slie  liad  fninid  mir, 
where  he  came  from;  and  perliaps  wlielhii' he  had 
a  hinUeii  feather  in  his  wins,'.'— J/ca.  0Ui>liaiU : 
I'hubi'. 

Broken  Music.  A  "consort"  con- 
sisted of  sLx  viols,  usually  kept  in  one 
case.  When  the  six  were  played  to- 
gether it  was  called  a  "  whole  consort," 
wheu  less  than  the  six  were  played  it 
was  called  "a  broken  consort."  Some- 
times applied  to  oi)eu  chords  or  arpeg- 
gios. 

"Ilerr  i>  ^•o(Ml  liroken  music." 
SluiLc.-ijicdix-:  Truitiis  and  Orcsiida,  iii.  1. 

V  Lord  Bacon  iu  his  Si/lva  Si/harum 
gives  a  different  explauatiou :  he  says 
certain  instruments  agree  together  and 
produce  concordant  music,  but  others 
(as  the  virginal  and  lute,  the  Welsh  and 
Irish  harps)  do  not  accord. 

Broken  on  the  Wheel.  (.S'tr  Beeak.) 

Broker.  Properly  speaking,  is  one 
who  sells  refuse.  In  German,  called 
mdklcrs,  that  is,    ' '  sellers  of  damaged 


Brontes 


180 


Brown 


stores."    (Teutonic,  brak  or  wrak,  refuse, 
allied  with  German  braKchcn.) 

V  Generally  some  special  word  is  pre- 
fixed :  as  bill-broker,  cotton- broker, 
shijJ-broker,  stock-broker,  etc. 

Brontes  (2  sj-l.).  A  blacksmith  per- 
sonified ;  one  of  the  Cyclops.  The  name 
signifies  Tltiotdcr. 

"IS'ijt  -Hith  sucli   wcijflic,   to   frame  the   forky 
brand, 
The   iwiutlerous   baumier   falls   from    Brontes' 
band." 

IIvclc  :  Jerusalem  Delivered,  book  xx. 

Bronzomar'te.     {Sec  Hoese.) 

Brook  (Master).  The  name  assinned 
by  Ford  when  he  visits  Sir  John  Falstaff . 
The  amorous  kniglit  tells  Master  Brook 
all  about  his  amour  with  Mrs.  Ford,  and 
how  he  duped  her  husband  by  being 
stowed  into  a  basket  of  dirty  hnen. 

"iFvrri.  I'll  uiyc  you  a  imttle  of  Imrnl  Hack  to 
u-ivt'  nic  reioiMsf  to  him,  and  tell  him  my  name  is 
Bro(pk,  only  for  a  jest. 

"7/us(.  My  hand,  bully.  Thou  Kliallhavco^'rcss 
and  re'-'ress,  .  .  .  and  thy  name  shall  be  Brook.'' — 
.'ihukeiiieare  :  ileiry  ir/i-ts  of  Wiiidnor,  ii.  1. 

Brooks  of  Sheffield.  An  imaginary 
individual  mentioned  in  JJuiid  Cvjqjcr- 
Jicld.     {Sec  Haebis,  Mes.) 

Broom.  A  broom  is  hung  at  the 
mast-head  of  ships  about  to  be  sold,  to 
indicate  that  they  are  to  be  swept  awaj*. 
The  idea  is  iiopularly  taken  from  Ad- 
miral Tromp  ;  but  probably  this  allusion 
is  more  witty  than  true.  Tlie  custom  of 
hanging  up  something  to  attract  notice 
seems  very  common.  Thus  an  old 
piece  of  carjiet  from  a  window  indicates 
household  tiiruiture  for  sale  ;  a  wisp  of 
straw  indicates  oysters  for  sale  ;  a  bush 
means  wine  for  sale  ;  an  old  broom,  ships 
to  sell,  etc.  etc.     (Sec  Pennant.) 

A  )>ew  broom.     One  fresh  in  office. 

Xcw  brooms  sucep  cleuii. '  Those  newly 
ai)pointed  to  an  office  find  fault  and 
want  to  swee})  away  old  customs. 

Brosier.  Eating  one  out  of  house 
and  home.  At  Eton,  when  a  dame  keeps 
an  iniusually  bad  table,  the  boys  agree 
together  on  a  day  to  eat,  pocket,  or 
waste  everything  eatable  in  tlie  house. 
The  censure  is  well  understood,  and  the 
hint  is  generally  effective.  (Greek,  broso, 
to  eat.) 

Brother  or  Frcre.  A  friar  not  in 
orders.     (Sec  Father.) 

Brother  (So-and-so).  A  fellow-bar- 
rister. 

Brother  Benedict,  A  married  man. 
(See  Benedict.) 

Brother  Birch.  A  fellow  -  school- 
master. 

Brother     Blade.       A     fellow -soldier, 


properly ;  but  now  anyone  of  the  same 
calling  as  yoiu"self . 

Brother  Brush.    A  fellow-painter. 

Brother  Bung.    A  fellow-tapster. 

Brother  Buskin.  A  fellow -comediat 
or  actor. 

A  Brother  Chip.     A  fellow-caqicuter. 

ul  Brother  L'lergytnun.  A  fellow- 
clergyman. 

A  Brother  Crispin.  A  fellow-shoe- 
maker. 

A  Brother  Manon.  A  fellow-Free- 
mason. 

A  Brother  Quill.    A  fellow -author. 

^i  Brother  Salt.  A  fellow-seaman  or 
sailor. 

uL  Brother  Shuttle.     A  fellow-weaver. 

A  Brother  Stitch.     A  fellow-tailor. 

A  Brother  String.     A  fellow-violinist. 

A  Brother  Hhijj.    A  fellow-coachman. 

Brother  German.  A  real  l)rother. 
(Latin,  germdnus,  of  the  same  stock  ; 
gcrmen,  a  bud  or  sjjrout.) 

'■  Te  in  germani  fnilris  dilexi  loco."— ycifucc. ■ 
.imlria,  1.  i,  :>x. 

A  tderinc  brother  is  a  brother  by  the 
mother's  side  only.  (Latin,  uterlnus, 
born  of  the  same  mother,  as  "frater 
iiterluus,"  uterus.) 

Brother  Jonathan.  Wlien  Wash- 
ington was  in  want  of  ammunition,  he 
called  a  council  of  officers,  but  no  prac- 
tical suggestion  could  be  olTcred.  "  Wo 
must  consult  brother  Jonathan,"  said 
the  general,  meaning  his  excellency, 
Jonathan  Trumbull,  tlic  elder  governor 
of  the  State  of  Connecticut.  This  was 
done,  and  the  difficulty  was  remedied. 
To  consult  brother  Jonathan  then  be- 
came a  set  phrase,  and  brother  Jonatlian 
grew  to  be  the  John  Bull  of  tlie  United 
States.  (/.  E.  Bartletl  :  Diclionarg  oj 
Americanisms.) 

Brother  Sam.  The  brother  of  Lord 
Dundreary  (q.r.).  the  hero  of  a  comedy 
based  on  a  German  drama,  by  John 
Oxenford,  with  additions  and  altera- 
tions by  E.  A.  Sothern  and  T.  B.  Buck- 
stone.  {Supplied  bg  T.  B.  Buckstone, 
Esq.) 

Browbeat.  To  beat  or  put  a  man 
tlown  by  knitting  the  brows. 

BrOAvn.  A  copjier  coin,  a  jienuy  ;  so 
called  from  its  colour.  Similarly  a  sove- 
reign is  a  "  yellow  boy."     (Sec  Blunt.) 

To  be  done  brown.  To  be  roasted, 
deceived,  taken  in. 

Brown  as  a  Berry.     (Sec  Similes.) 

Brown,    Jones,    and     Robinson. 

Three  Englishmen  who  travel  together. 
Their    adveutiu'es    were    jjublished    in 


Brown  Bess 


181 


Bruins 


Punch,  and  were  the  production  of 
Richard  Doyle.  They  typify  the  middle- 
cLass  English  abroad ;  and  hold  up  to 
ridicule  their  gaucherie  and  contracted 
notions,  their  vulgarity  and  extrava- 
gance, their  conceit  and  suobbism. 

Brown  Bess  means  brown  baiTel. 
The  barrels  were  browned  to  keep  them 
from  rusting.  (Dutch,  Iks,  a  gun-barrel ; 
Low  German,  hi<sse ;  Swedish,  bi/.ssrf. 
(Jur  ariji/r/i/is,  hhoiderliiss.)  In  1808  a 
process  of  browning  was  introduced,  but 
this  has,  of  course,  nothing  to  do  with 
the  distinctive  epithet.  Probably  Bess  is 
a  companion  word  to  Bill.     {Sec  beloir.) 

Brown  Bill.  A  kind  of  halbert  used 
by  English  foot-soldiers  before  muskets 
were  employed.  We  find  in  the  me- 
dieval ballads  the  expressions,  "brown 
brand,"  "brown sword,"  "brown blade," 
etc.  Sometimes  the  word  ri<-sti/  is  sub- 
stituted for  brown,  as  in  Chaucer  :  "And 
in  his  side  he  had  a  rousty  blade"; 
which,  being  the  god  Mars,  cannot  mean 
a  bad  one.  Keeping  the  weapons  bright 
is  a  modem  fashion ;  our  forefathers 
prefeiTed  the  honour  of  blood  stains. 
Some  say  the  weapons  were  varnished 
with  a  brown  varnish  to  prevent  rust, 
and  some  affirm  that  one  Brown  was  a 
famous  maker  of  these  instruments,  and 
that  Brown  Bill  is  a  phrase  similar  to 
Armstrong  gun  and  Colt's  revolver. 
{See  above.) 

'■  Sii,  with  a  l)and  of  liowiiipn  and  of  pikes, 
Browu  hills  anil  targetieis." 

Mailoire :  Edicard  IT.    (lOi'i.) 

*.*  Brown  also  means  shining  (Dutch, 
hvmi).  hence,  "My  bounie  brown  sword," 
"brown  as  glass,"  etc.,  so  that  a  "brown 
bill"  might  refer  to  the  shining  steel, 
and  "  brown  Bess  "  to  the  bright  baiTel. 

Brown  Study.  Absence  of  mind ; 
apparent  thought,  but  real  vacuity.  The 
corresponding  French  expression  ex- 
plains it — Sdmbre  reverie.  Sombre  and 
brim  both  mean  sad,  melancholy,  gloomy, 
dull. 

"  Invention  flags,  his  tirain  grows  imiddy, 
And  hiack  desiiair  succeeds  brown  study." 
Coiigreve:  Aji  Imponsible  Thing. 

Browns.  To  astonish  the  Broirns.  To 
do  or  say  something  regardless  of  the 
annoj'ance  it  may  cause  or  the  shock  it 
may  give  to  Mrs.  Grundy. 

Anne  Bolej'n  had  a  whole  host  of 
Browns,  or  "  country  cousins,"  who 
were  welcomed  at  Court  in  the  reign 
of  Elizabeth.  The  queen,  however,  was 
quick  to  see  what  was  {/aaehe,  and  did 
not  scruple  to  reprove  the  Browns  if 
she  noticed  anything  in  their  conduct 


not  coiume   il  faitt.      Her  bluntuess  of 
sjieech  often  "  astonished  the  Browms," 

Brownie.  The  house  spirit  in  Scot- 
tish superstition.  He  is  called  in  Eng- 
land liobiu  Ooodfctlow.  At  night  he 
is  supposed  to  busy  himself  in  doing 
little  jobs  for  the  family  over  which 
he  presides.  Farms  are  his  favourite 
abode.  Brownies  are  bi'owu  or  tawny 
spirits,  in  opposition  to  fairies,  which 
are  fair  or  elegant  ones.  {See  Fairies.) 
"  It  is  nut  loni.'  since  every  faniilv  of  con.-ider- 
alile  sulistanci'  was  liannted  Oya  spirit  tUev  called 
Browny,  which  did  several  sons  of  work  ;  and 
this  was  the  reasiui  why  they  gave  him  offerings 
...on   what   they   called  ■  Browny's   stone.'"— 

ildttiil  :  Srotllltlil. 

Brownists.  Followers  of  Robert 
Brown,  of  Rutlandshire,  a  violent  op- 
ponent of  the  Established  Church  in  the 
time  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  The  present 
"Independents"  hold  pretty  well  the 
same  religious  tenets  as  tlie  Brownists. 
Sir  Andi-ew  Aguecheek  says  : 

'■I'd  as  lief  111'  a  Brownist  as  a  politician."— 
Sh<tl;,s,,ntrf:  Twelfth  Sight,  iii.  -J. 

Browse  his  Jib  (To).  A  sailor's 
phrase,  meaning  to  drink  till  the  face 
is  flushed  and  swollen.  The  7/^  means 
the  face,  and  to  browse  here  means  "  to 
fatten." 

V  The  onl}'  con-ect  form  of  the  phrase, 
liowever,  is  "to  bowse  his  jib."  To 
bowse  the  jib  means  to  haul  the  sail  taut ; 
and  as  a  metaphor  signifies  that  a  man 
is  "tight." 

Bruel.  The  goose,  in  the  tale  of 
Reynard  the  Fo.t.  The  word  means 
little- roarer. 

Bruin.  One  of  the  leaders  aiTayed 
against  Hudibras.  He  was  Talgol,  a 
Xewgate  butcher,  who  obtained  a  cap- 
tain's commission  for  valour  at  Naseby. 
He  marched  next  Orsin  (Joshua  Gosling, 
landlord  of  the  bear-gardens  at  South- 
wark). 

Sir  Bruin.  The  name  of  the  bear  in 
the  famous  German  beast-epic,  called 
Beijnard  the  Fox.     (Dutch  for  brown.) 

Brumaire.  The  celebrated  18th 
Brumaire  (Xov.  9th,  1799)  was  the  day 
on  which  the  Directory  was  overthrown 
and  Xapoleon  established  his  supremacy. 

Brum'magem.  Worthless  or  very 
inferior  metallic  articles  made  in  imita- 
tion of  better  ones.  Binningham  is  the 
great  mart  and  manufactory  of  gilt  toys, 
cheap  jeweller}-,  imitation  gems,  mosaic 
gold,  and  such-like,  Birmingham  was 
called  by  the  Romans  "  Bremenium." 

Brums.  In  Stock  Exchange  phrase- 
ology   this    means   the    "  London    and 


Bruneliild 


182 


Brutus 


North-Western  Railway  shares."    The 
Brum,  i.e.  the  Birmingham  line. 

Bruneliild  (3  syl.)  or  BniiicliU'dd. 
Daughter  of  the  King  of  Isslaud,  he- 
loved  by  Giinthcr,  one  of  the  two  great 
chieftains  of  the  Nibelungenlied  or  Teu- 
tonic Iliad.  Slie  was  to  be  carried  otf 
by  force,  and  Uiinther  asked  his  friend 
Siegfried  to  hell)  him.  Siegfried  con- 
trived the  matter  by  snatching  from  her 
the  talisman  whicli  was  her  protector, 
but  she  never  forgave  him  for  his 
treachery.  (Old  Gorman,  br/nii,  coat  of 
mail;  //Ut,  battle.) 

Brunello  (in  Oiiaiido  F/irioso).  A 
deformed  dwarf  of  Biserta,  to  whom 
King  Ag'ramant  gave  a  ring  -which  had 
the  virtue  to  withstand  the  power  of 
magic  (book  ii.).  He  was  leader  of  the 
Tiiigita'uians  in  the  Saracen  arnry.  He 
also  figures  in  Bojardo's  (Jiiii/ido  Ldhi- 
morato. 

Brunswickor.  A  native  of  Bruns- 
wick.    {Sic  Black  Brunswicker.) 

Brunt.  Tn  hear  thr  brunt.  To  bear 
the  stress,  the  heat,  and  collision.  Tlie 
same  word  as  "  burn."  (Icelandic, 
hnin'i,  burning  lieat,  brrti  ;  Anglo-Saxon, 
hreun'tiifi,  bm'uing.)  The  "  brunt  of  a 
battle"  is  the  hottest  part  of  the  fight. 
(Compiarc  "  lire-brand.") 

Brush.    The  tail  of  a  fox  or  squirrel, 

wliicli  is  bnixhi/. 

Jtynsh  airdij.     Get  along. 

Uriish  of.    Move  on. 

He  brushed  by  me.  He  just  touched 
me  as  he  went  quickly  past.  Hence  also 
brush,  a  slight  skirmisli. 

All  these  are  metaphors  from  brushing 
with  a  brush.  • 

Give  it  another  bruaji.  A  little  moi-e 
attention  ;  bestow  a  little  more  labour 
on  it ;  return  it  to  the  file  for  a  little 
more  polish. 

Brush  up  {To).  To  renovate  or 
revive  ;  to  liring  again  into  use  what 
has  been  neglected,  as,  "I  must  brush 
up  my  French."  Wlien  a  fire  is  slack 
we  brush  up  the  hearth  and  then  sweep 
clean  the  lower  bars  of  the  stove  and 
stir  the  sleepy  coals  into  activity. 

Brut.  A  rhyming  chronicle,  as  the 
Tirat  d''A)i(iIeterre  and  Le  Roman  de 
Brat,  by  Wace  (twelfth  century).  Brut 
is  the  Romance  word  bruit  (a  rumour, 
hence  a  tradition,  or  a  chronicle  based 
on  tradition).  It  is  by  mere  accident 
that  the  word  resembles  "Brute"  or 
"Brutus,"  the  traditional  king.  {See 
next  column.) 


Brut  d'Angleterre.  A  chronicle  of 
the  acliievemeuts  of  King  Arthur  and 
his  Knights  of  tlie  liound  Table.  Arthur 
is  described  as  the  natural  sou  of  Uther, 
Ijendragon  (or  chief)  of  the  ancient 
Britons.  He  suci^eeded  his  fatlier,  in 
516,  by  the  aid  of  Merlin,  who  gave  him 
a  magic  sword,  with  which  he  conquered 
the  Saxons,  Picts,  Scots,  antl  Irish. 
Besides  the  lirut  referred  to,  several 
other  romances  record  the  exploits  of 
this  heroic  kuig.     {See  Aetiiue.) 

Brute,  in  CambridgeUniversitj-  slang, 
is  a  man  who  has  not  yet  matriculated. 
The  play  is  evident.  A  "man,"  in 
college  phrase,  is  a  collegian  ;  and,  as 
matriculation  is  the  sign  and  seal  of 
acceptance,  a  scholar  before  that  cere- 
mony is  not  a  "man,"  and  therefore 
only  a  "  biped  brute." 

Brute  {Sir  John).  A  coarse,  pot- 
valiant  knight,  ignobly  noted  for  his 
absurdities.     {]'anbrnfjh  :   Tlie  I'rorokcd 

fiy-e.) 

Brute  or  Brutus,  in  the  mytho- 
logical history  of  England,  tlie  first 
king  of  the  Britons,  was  son  of  Sylvius 
(grandson  of  Ascanius  and  great  grand- 
son of  iEne'as).  Having  inadvertentlj' 
killed  his  father,  he  first  took  refuge 
in  Greece  and  then  in  Britain.  In 
remembrance  of  Troy,  he  called  the 
capital  of  his  kingdom  Troy-novant 
(New  Troy),  now  London. 

V  The  pedigree  was  as  follows : — 
(1)  iEne'as,  (2)  Ascanius,  (3)  Silvius,  (-4) 
Brutus.     {Sec  Teoy  Xovant.) 

Brutum  Fulmen  (Latin).  A  noisy 
but  harmless  threatening ;  an  innocuous 
thunderbolt. 

"His  [tlie  Pope's]  dcMuincintinns  are  but  a 
hriUiiia  fidmcii."—The  Standanl. 

Brutus  {Junius),  the  first  consul  of 
Rome.  He  condemned  to  death  his  own 
two  sous  for  joining  a  conspiracy  to  re- 
store to  the  throne  the  banished  Tarquin. 

'■Tlie   pwhlic  fatUrr  [Brutus],  who  tlic  iirivale 
quelled, 
And  im  the  dread  trilmuiil  steviily  sat." 

TItniiifoi, :  ^Villh■,■. 

The  Spanish  Brutus.  Alphonso  Perez 
de  Guzman  (12.18-1320).  W'"!*^  ^'*^ 
was  governor,  Castile  was  besieged  liy 
Don  Juan,  who  had  revolted  from  his 
brother,  Sancho  IV.  Juan,  who  held  in 
captivity  one  of  the  sons  of  Guzman, 
threatened  to  cut  his  tlu'oat  uidess 
Guzman  surrendered  the  city.  Guzman 
replied,  "Sooner  tlian  be  a  traitor, 
I  would  myself  lend  j-ou  a  sword  to 
slay  him,"  and  he  tlnew  a  sword  over 
the   city  wall.     The   son,  we   are  told, 


Brutus 


183 


Buck-rider 


was  slain  by  the  father's  sword  before 
liis  eyes. 

Brutus  (JfarcKs).  Ctcsar's  friend, 
joined  the  conspirators  to  murder  him, 
because  he  made  himself  a  king. 

"  And  tlioii,  iiiiliappy  Brutus,  kiiKl  of  Ijeart, 
Whiise  steady  arm,  liy  awful  virtue  ur^'t'd, 
Lifted  tlie  Roman  strel  av'ainst  thy  friend." 
Thiiiii.iiin  ;  Winter,  5-.'l-U. 

Et  til,  Brute.  What !  does  my  own 
familiar  friend  lift  up  his  heel  against 
me?  The  reference  is  to  that  Marcus 
Brutus  whose  "bastard  hand  stabbed 
Julius  Cajsar."     {Suetonius.) 

Bruxellois.  The  inhabitants  of 
Brussels  or  Bruxelles. 

Brydport  Dagger.   (See  Bridpoet.) 

Bub.  Drink.  (Connected  with  bubble 
— Latin,  bibo,  to  drink  ;  our  imbibe.)  {See 
Grub.) 

"  liruiik  witli  Helicon's  waters  and  donlile- 
lirewed  \m\i:  —I'rioy :  Tu  u  Pci-.-iua  iclm  irrote  Hi. 

Bubas'tis.  The  Diana  of  Egyptian 
mythology ;  the  daughter  of  Isis  and 
sister  of  Horus. 

Bubble  (./).  A.  scheme  of  no  sterling 
wortli  and  of  very  ephemeral  duration 
— as  worthless  and  frail  as  a  bubble. 

"The  whole  scheme  [the  Fenian  raid  on  British 
AmericaJ  was  a  collapsed  liublile."— T/ie  Times. 

The  Bubble  Act,  6  George  I.,  cap.  18  ; 
published  1719,  and  repoaled  July  5th, 
18'io.  Its  object  was  to  punish  the  pro- 
moters of  bubble  schemes. 

A  bubble  compamj.  A  company  whose 
object  is  to  enrich  themselves  at  the 
expense  of  subscribers  to  their  scheme. 

A  bubble  scliemc.  A  project  for  getting 
money  from  subscribers  to  a  scheme  of 
no  vaUie. 

Bubble  and  Squeak.  Cold  boiled 
meat  and  greens  fried.  They  first  bub- 
bled in  water  when  boiled, and  afterwards 
hissed  or  squeaked  in  the  fryiug-pan. 

Something  pretentious,  but  of  no  real 
value,  such  as  "  rank  and  title,"  or  a 
bit  of  ribbon  in  one's  button  hole. 

Bucca.  A  goljliii  of  the  wind,  sup- 
posed bj'  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
Coruwali  to  foretell  shipwi-ecks, 

Buc'caneer'  means  sellers  of  smoke- 
dried  meat,  from  the  Caribbean  word 
boiicnn,  smoke-dried  meat.  The  term 
was  first  given  to  the  French  settlers  in 
Hayti,  whose  business  it  was  to  hunt 
animals  for  their  skins.  The  flesh  they 
smoke-dried  and  sold,  chiefly  to  the 
Dutch. 

When  the  Spaniards  laid  claim  to  all 
America,  many  English  and  French  ard- 
venturers  lived    by   buccaneering,   and 


hunted  Spaniards  as  lawful  prey.  After 
the  peace  of  Ryswick  this  was  no  longer 
tolerated,  and  the  term  was  then  ap- 
plied to  any  desiderate,  lawless,  inratical 
adventurer. 

Bucen'taur.  A  monster,  half-man 
and  half-ox.  The  Venetian  state-galley 
employed  by  the  Doge  when  he  went  on 
Ascension  Day  to  wed  the  Adriatic  was 
so  called.  (Greek,  bous,  ox ;  centauros, 
centaur.) 

Buceph'alos  [bull-headed'].  Ahorse. 
Strictly  speaking,  the  charger  of  Alex- 
ander the  (ireat,  bought  of  a  Thessalian 
for  thirteen  talents  (£3,')0!)). 

"True,  true;  T  fori-'ot  your  Bucephalus."— .Sl/r  W. 
Scutt:  The  Aiitiqiiai-n. 

Buc'hanites  (3  syl.).  A  sect  of  fan- 
atics who  appeared  in  the  west  of  Scot- 
land in  1783.  They  were  named  after 
Mrs.  or  Lucky  Buchan,  their  founder, 
who  called  herself  "Friend  Mother  in 
the  Lord,"  claiming  to  be  the  woman 
mentioned  in  Rev.  xii. ,  and  maintaining 
that  the  Rev.  Hugh  White,  a  convert, 
was  the  "  man-child." 

"  I  neyer  heard  of  alewife  that  turned  preacher, 
exc'i'iit  I,uckie  Huchan  in  the  West."—!^cutt:St, 
ll'iiiKiix  M't'/i,  c.  ii. 

Buck.     A  dandy.     {See  below.) 

"A  most  tremendous  huclc  he  was,  as  he  sat 
there  serene,  in  state,  drivinghissreys."— 7V(ac/,-- 
eray :  Vaiiity  Fair,  cliap.  vi. 

Buck-basket.  A  linen-basket.  To 
buck  is  to  wash  clothes  in  lye  ;  and  a 
buck  is  one  whose  clothes  are  buck,  or 
nicely  got  up.  When  Cade  says  his 
mother  was  "descended  from  the 
Lacies,"  two  men  overhear  him,  and 
say,  "  She  was  a  pedlar's  daughter,  but 
not  being  able  to  travel  with  her  furred 
pack,  she  washes  bucks  here  at  home." 
('2  Henry  VI.,  iv.  2.)  (German, 
beuehen,  to  steep  clothes  in  lye  ;  beiicJie, 
clothes  so  steejied.  However,  compare 
"bucket,"  a  diminutive  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  bue.) 

Buck-bean.  A  corruption  of  hog- 
bean,  a  native  of  wet  bog-lands. 

Buck-rider  {A).  A  dummy  fare  who 
enables  a  cabman  to  pass  police-con- 
stables who  prevent  empty  cabs  loitering 
at  places  whei-e  cabs  will  be  likely  to  be 
required,  as  at  theatres,  music-halls,  and 
large  hotels.  A  cabman  who  wants  to 
get  at  such  a  place  under  hope  of  picking 
up  a  fare  gives  a  ' '  back ' '  a  shilling  to 
get  into  his  cab  that  he  may  seem  to 
have  a  fare,  and  so  pass  the  police. 

"Constables  are  stationed  at  certain  points  to 
spot  the  professional  '  buck-riders.'  "—Nineteenth 
Century  (March,  1893,  p.  576). 


Buck-tooth. 


184 


Budget 


Buck-tooth.  A  large  projecting 
f rout-tooth.     (.S'fc  BuTTEE  Tooth.) 

Buckwheat.  A  corruption  of  hoc. 
German,  buche,  beech-wheat ;  it  is  so 
called  because  it  is  triangular,  like  beech- 
mast.  The  botanical  name  is  Fuyo- 
pyrum  (beech- wheat). 

"  The  liuckwUeat 
Wliiterieil  brnad  acres, sweeteiungwith  its  flowers 
Tlie  August  wind." 

Bryant :  The  Fountain,  stanza  7. 

Buckhorse.  A  severe  blow  or  slap 
on  the  face.  So  called  from  a  boxer  of 
that  name. 

Buckingham.  (Saxon,  hoecen-ham, 
beech  -  tree  village.)  Fuller,  in  his 
JFort/iies,  speaks  of  the  beech-trees  as 
the  most  characteristic  feature  of  this 
county. 

Bucklaw,  or  rather  FranJc  irai/stoii, 
lord  of  Biiclilaw,  a  wealthy  nobleman, 
who  marries  Lucia  di  Lammermoor  {Luc;/ 
As]tton),  who  had  pledged  lier  troth  to 
Edgar,  master  of  Raveuswood.  On  the 
wedding-night  Lucy  murders  him,  goes 
mad,  and  dies.  [DonizcttPs  opera  of 
Lncia  di  Lammcrinoor.  Sir  Walter  Scott^s 
Bride  of  Lainmermoor.) 

Buckle.  /  can't  hucllc  to.  I  can't 
give  my  mind  to  work.  The  allusion  is 
to  buckling  on  one's  armour  or  belt. 

To  cat  the  hackle.  To  caper  about,  to 
heel  and  toe  it  in  dancing.  In  jigs  the 
two  feet  buckle  or  twist  into  each  other 
with  great  rapidity. 

"  Tlirotli,  it  wouldn't  lave  a  lausli  in  ynn  to  see 
the  iiarsnn  dancin'  down  tlie  road  on  his  way 
homo,  and  the  niinisther  and  niethodist  praicher 
rnttin'  the  liuckle  as  they  went  along." — W.  Ti. 
Yrats:  Fairii  Talcs  of  tlie  Iruh  Peasantry,  p.  !)8 
(.tef  also  p.  1U6). 

To  put  into  haelcle.     To  put  into  pawn 

at  the  rate  of  40  per  cent,  interest. 

To  talk  hackle.  To  talk  about  marriage. 

"  I  took  a  pirl  to  dinner  who  talked  buckle  to 
me."— Vera,  l.-,4. 

Buckler.     {Sec  Shield.) 

Bucklersbury  (London)  was  at  one 
time  the  noted  street  for  druggists  and 
herbalists  ;  hence  Falstaff  says — 

"  I  cannot  cost,  and  say  thou  art  this  and  that, 
like  a  many  of  these  lisping  hawthorn  Inuls.  that 
come  like  women  iu  men's  apparel,  and  smell  like 
liucklersbiiiy  in  simple  t'\m^."  —  Shakespeare : 
Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  iii.  .3. 

Buckmaster's     Light     Infantry. 

The  3rd  West  India  Regiment  was  so 
called  from  Buckmaster,  the  tailor,  who 
used  to  issue  "Light  Infantry  uniforms  " 
to  the  officers  of  the  corps  without  any 
authority  from  the  Commander-in-Chief. 
Buckra.  Superior,  excellent.  Thafs 
haekra.  A  hackra  coat  is  a  smart  coat; 
a  buckra  man,  a  man  of  consequence. 


This  word  among  the  West  Indians  does 
the  service  of  hurra  among  the  Anglo- 
Indians  :  as  harra  .la'ib  (great  master, 
i.e.  white  man),  harra  khana  (a  magni- 
ficent sjDread  or  dinner). 

Buckshish  ov  Baksheeslt.  A  gratuity, 
poar  boire.  A  term  common  to  India, 
Persia,  and  indeed  all  the  East. 

Buddha  means  the  IJ'ise  One.  From 
the  Indian  word  budJi,  to  know.  'i"ho 
title  was  given  to  Priuce  Siddhar'tha, 
generally  called  Saky'a-muni,  the  founder 
of  Buddhism.  His  wife's  name  was 
Gopa. 

Buddhism.  A  system  of  religion 
established  iu  India  in  the  tliird  century. 
The  general  outline  of  the  S3'stem  is  that 
the  world  is  a  transient  reflex  of  deity  ; 
that  the  soul  is  a  "  vital  spark  "  of  deity ; 
and  that  after  death  it  will  be  bound  to 
matter  again  till  its  "wearer"  has,  by 
divine  contemiilation,  so  purged  and 
purified  it  that  it  is  fit  to  be  absorbed 
iuto  the  divine  essence. 

Buddhist.  One  whese  system  of 
religion  is  Buddhism. 

Bude  or  Gurney  Light.  The  latter 
is  the  name  of  the  inventor,  and  the 
former  the  place  of  his  abode.  (Golds- 
worthy  Gurney,  of  Bude,  Cornwall.) 

Budge  is  lambskin  with  the  wool 
dressed  outwai-ds,  worn  on  the  edge  of 
capes,  bachelors'  hoods,  and  so  on. 
Budge  Row,  Cannon  Street,  is  so-called 
because  it  was  chiefly  occui^ied  by  budge- 
makers. 

"  O  foolishness  of  men!  that  lend  their  ears 
To  those  luidge-doctors  of  the  stoic  fur." 

Milton:  Comas,  Too,  Tfl". 

Budge  (To)  is  the  French  longer,  to 
stir. 

Budge  Bachelors.  A  company  of 
men  clothed  iu  long  gowns  lined  with 
budge  or  lambs'  wool,  who  used  to 
accompany  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London 
at  his  inauguration. 

Budget.  The  statement  which  the 
Chancellor  of  tlie  Exchequer  lays  before 
the  House  of  Commons  every  session, 
respecting  the  national  income  and  ex- 
penditure, taxes  and  salaries.  The  word 
is  the  oldi  French  bouc/ette,  a  bag,  and 
the  j)resent  use  arose  from  the  custom  of 
bringing  to  the  House  the  papers  per- 
taining to  these  matters  iu  a  leather  bag, 
and  laying  them  on  the  table.  Hence, 
to  open  the  budget  or  bag,  i.e.  to  take  the 
pajiers  from  the  bag  and  submit  them  to 
the  House. 

.A  budget  of  neica  is  a  bagful  of  news, 
a  large  stock  of  news. 


Buff 


185 


Build 


Cnj  Budget.  A  watchword  or  shib- 
boleth. Thus  Slender  says  to  Shallow — 
"  We  bave  a  iiay-wordhow  to  know  one  aiKitlier. 
7  come  to  lier  in  white  and  cry  mum;  slic  ciM^'s 
liii.dtiet;  and  liy  that  we  know  one  another.'  — 
Shakespeare :  Mei-ry  Wives  of  Windsor,  v.  2. 

Buff.  Buff  is  a  contrn.ctiou  of  hiiftlc 
or  buffalo;  and  buff  skin  is  tlie  skin  of 
the  buffalo  jjrepared.  "To  stand  in 
buff"  is  to  stand  without  clothing  in 
one's  bare  skin.  "  To  strip  to  the  buff  " 
is  to  strip  to  tlie  skin.  The  French  for 
"  buff "  is  hi(ff((\  which  also  means  a 
buffalo. 

To  stand  lnifi\  also  written  hhtff, 
meaning  firm,  without  flinching.  Sheri- 
dan, in  his  Scliool  fur  Scinidat,  ii.  3,  says, 
"  That  he  sliould  liave  stood  bluff  to  old 
bachelor  so  long,  and  sink  into  a  husband 
at  last."  It  is  a  nautical  term ;  a 
"bluff  shore"  is  one  with  a  bold  and 
almost  perpendicular  front.  The  word 
/'a^ff',  a  blow  or  buft'et,  may  have  got  con- 
founded with  blurt",  but  without  doubt 
numerous  instances  of  "butt'"  can  be 
adduced. 

"  And  for  tlie  sood  ohl  cause  stood  imff, 
'Uainst  itiany  a  hitter  kick  and  cuff." 

linthr:  U iniiln-.'f s  lipla.ph. 
"T  nuist  even  stand  hntr  and  ontf.ice  him."— 
Fiehiitiij. 

Buff  in  "Blind-man's  buff,"  the 
well-known  game,  is  an  allusion  to  the 
tlu'ee  butts  or  pats  which  tho  "blind- 
man  "  gets  when  he  has  caught  a  player. 
(Norman-French,  huffc,  a  blow  ;  Welsh, 
paf,  verb,  palfio,  to"  thump ;  our  buffet 
\A  a  little  slap.) 

Buffalo  Bill.     Colonel  Cody. 

Buffalo  Robe  {A).  The  skin  of  a 
bison  dressed  witliout  removing  the  hair, 
and  used  as  a  travelling  rug.  The  word 
"  robe  "  is  often  omitted. 

'■The  large  and  roomy  sleii-'h  w.ts  decked  with 
liuffalo  robes,  red-honnd,  and  t'urnisheil  with 
Kliani  eyes  and  cars."— IVie  V/iper  Ten  Thousand, 
l>.4. 

"  fjeavins:  all  hands  under  their  hnffaloes."— 
Kane.:  Arctic  IJ.rpcdilinn. 

Buffer  of  a  railway  carriage  is  an 
apparatus  to  rebuff'  or  deaden  the  force 
of  collision. 

Buffer  {A).  A  chap.  The  French 
bouffer  (older  form,  bauffer)  meant  to 
eat,  as  il  bauff'era  tout  seul.  If  this  is 
the  basis  of  the  word,  a  buffer  is  one 
who  eats  with  us,  called  a  Commoner 
in  our  universities. 

"  I  always  said  the  (dd  hnffer  would. '—il/m 
liraddoii :  Lady  Audteifs  Secret. 

Buffoon  means  one  who  puffs  out  his 
cheeks,  and  makes  a  ridiculous  explosion 
by  causing  them  suddenly  to  collapse. 
This  being  a  standing  trick  with  clowns, 
caused  the  name  to  be  applied  to  low 


jesters.  The  Italian  buffare  is  "  to  puff 
out  the  cheeks  for  the  purpose  of  making 
an  explosion;"  our  2}uff'.  (Italian 
buffnue,  a  buffoon  ;  ¥ve\\c\\  bouffon.) 

Buffoons.     Names  synonymous  with 

Buffoon : — 

Bobcehe.  A  clown  in  a  small  theatre 
in  the  Boulevart  du  Temple,  Paris. 
(1815-182;).) 

GaVtmafre.  A  contemporary  and  rival 
of  the  former. 

Tabarhi.  I    (Of    the    seventeenth 

BruscanibiUe.  |       century.) 

Grimaldi.  (1779-1837.)  {See  Scara- 
mouch.) 

Buffs.  The  old  3rd  regiment  of  foot 
soldiers.  The  men's  coats  were  lined 
and  faced  with  buff  ;  they  also  wore  buff 
waistcoats,  buff  breeches,  and  butt' 
stockings.  These  are  the  "  Old  Buffs," 
raised  in  1GS9. 

At  one  time  cMllcd  the  Buff  Howards,  from 
Howard  ilicir  col I  i  I7:;7-I7l:il. 

The"  V.Miir-'  Itnll-'  :n>-  lie  nid  .list  Foot  raised 
in  ITirj;  nnw  i.illi'd  tlic  II  niii  niLidonsliire  Regi- 
ment." whose  incsi'Ut  luiiliuiu  isscarlct  with  huff 
facings. 

The  Rothshire  Bufs.  The  old  78th, 
now  the  second  battalion  of  the  Seaforth 
Highlanders. 

Bugaboo.  A  monster,  or  goblin, 
introduced  into  the  tales  of  the  old 
Italian  romancers.     {See  below.) 

Bugbear.  A  scarecrow.  Bug  is  the 
Welsh  bu-ff,  a  hobgoblin,  called  in  Eussia 
budca.  Spenser  says,  "A  ghastly  bug 
doth  greatly  them  affear "  (book  ii. 
canto  3);  and  Hamlet  has  "bugs  and 
goblins"  (v.  2). 

'•  Warwick  was  a  bug  that  feared  us  all." 

Shakespeare  :  .3  Henri/  IV.,  v.  3. 
"  To  the  world  no  Ijughear  is  so  great 
.As  want  of  tigure  and  a  small  estate." 

Pope:  Satires,  iii.  or-BS. 

"  The  latter  half  of  this  word  is  some- 
what doubtful.  The  Welsh  6a/- =  ire, 
fury,  -WTath,  whence  buroi/,  spiteful, 
seems  probable. 

Buggy.  A  light  vehicle  without  a 
hood,  drawn  by  one  horse.  (Hindu- 
stani, hCu/Jti.) 

Buhl-work.  Cabinet  -  work,  inlaid 
with  brass  ;  so  called  from  Siguor  Boule, 
the  inventor,  who  settled  in  Paris  during 
the  reign  of  Louis  XIV.  (The  word 
should  be  spelt  Boule-wobk.) 

Build,  for  make,  as,  A  man  of  stronej 
build,  a  man  of  robust  make.  The 
metaphor  is  evident. 

Build.  Applied  to  dress.  Xot  so  bad 
a  build  after  all,  not  badly  made. 


Builder's 


186 


Bullet 


Builder's  Square.  Emblematic  of 
St.  Tliomas,  p.itrou  of  architects. 

Bulbul.  The  nightingale.  A  Persian 
word,  familiarised  by  Tom  Moore. 

"  'Twas  like  t.lie  notes,  lialf-ocsliisy,  lialf-paiii, 

TUe  Inilbul  iittevs." 
Mum-e:   Lalla  Bookh  (Veiled   Prophet,  part    I, 
stanza  14). 

Bulls,  metamorphosed  into  a  drake  ; 
and  liis  son,  Egyjiios,  into  a  vulture. 

Bull.  One  of  the  twelve  signs  of  tlie 
Zodiac  (April  20  to  May  -21).  The  time 
for  ploughing,  which  in  Egypt  was  per- 
formed by  oxen  or  bulls. 

'■  At  last  from  Aries  rolls  tlie  lionnlenns  snn. 
And  Ihe  l>ri>;lit  Hull  rei-cives  liini." 

TUiiiiiaiiii :  Spriiifi,  _'(',,  l'7. 

Hid!.  A  blunder,  or  inadvertent  con- 
tradiction of  terms,  for  which  the  Irisli 
are  ijroverbial.  T/ie  British  Apollo, 
1740,  says  the  term  is  derived  from  one 
Obadiah  Bull,  an  Irish  lawyer  of  London, 
in  the  reign  of  Henry  VII.,  whose  blun- 
dering in  this  way  was  notorious. 

Bull  is  a  five-shilling  piece.  "  Half  a 
bull"  is  half-a-crown.  From  hulla,  a 
great  leaden  seal.  Hood,  in  one  of  his 
comic  sketches,  speaks  of  a  crier  who, 
beiug  apprehended,  "swallowed  three 
hogs  (shillings)  and  a  bull." 

The  pope' s  bull .  So  called  from  the  hulht 
or  capsule  of  the  seal  appended  to  the 
document.  Subsequently  the  seal  was 
called  the  bulla,  and  then  the  document 
itself. 

The  edict  of  the  Emperor  Charles  IV. 
(1356)  had  a  golden  htilla,  and  was  there- 
fore called  the  golden  bull.  (.S'ct  Golden 
Bull.) 

Bull.  A  public-house  sign,  the  cogni- 
sance of  the  house  of  Clare.  The  bull 
and  the  boar  were  signs  used  by  the  par- 
tisans of  Clare,  and  llichard,  Duke  of 
Gloucester  (Richard  III.). 

Bull. 

A  bull  ill  a  china  fihop.  A  maladroit 
hand  interfering  with  a  delicate  busi- 
ness ;  one  who  produces  reckless  destruc- 
tion. 

A  brazen  bull.  An  instrument  of  tor- 
ture.     («SVe  PlIALAMS.) 

He  may  bear  a  ball  that  hath  borne  a 
calf  [Erasmus:  Brovcrbs) — "He  that 
accustometh  hym-selfe  to  lytic  tliynges, 
by  lytic  and  lytle  shalbe  able  to  go  a 
waye  with  greater  thynges  {Tarerner). 

To  talce  tlie  ball  bi/  tlie  horns.  To 
attack  or  encounter  a  threatened  danger 
fearlessly ;  to  go  forth  boldly  to  meet  a 
difficulty.  The  figure  is  taken  from  bull- 
fights,  in  which   a   strong    and    skilful 


matadore  will  grasp  the  horns  of  a  bull 

about  to  toss  him  and  hold  it  prisoner. 

John  Bull.  An  Englishman.  Applied 
to  a  native  of  England  in  Arbuthnot's 
ludicrous  IFistori/  of  Europe.  This  liis- 
tory  is  sometimes  erroneously  ascribed 
to  Dean  Swift.  In  this  satire  the  Freneli 
are  called  Lewis  Baboon,  and  the  Dutch 
Xieholas  Frog. 

"One  would  think,  in  person  if  yinqr  itself, 
a  naiion  would  .  .  .  luclure  soniethiim'  Krand, 
heroic,  and  inipo-in^',  liut  it  is  cliaraen'risiii-  i.f 
I  lie  peculiar  Iniuiour  of  i  lie  Kn','lisli.  and  of  ilicir 
love  for  what  is  hliiiit.  eoiiiic,  and  familiar,  I  hat 
Ihev  have  emiiodied  I  heir  national  odd  i  lies  ill  Ihe 
lliriire  of  a  sturdy,  corpulent  old  fcdiow  .  .  .  with 
red  waistcoat,  leather  hreecliesaiid  a  stunt  oaken 
cuik-el  .  .  .  [whom  tliev  callj  .Iidiii  Hull."— HVix/i- 
iiujtnu  Ti-viiKj. 

Bull  and  Gate.    Bull  and  Mouth. 

Public-house  signs.  A  corniption  uf 
Boulogne  Gate  or  Moutli,  a(lii])ted  out 
of  cnmpliment  to  Henry  VIII.,  who 
took  Boulogne  in  lolt. 

Bull-dog  {A).  A  man  of  relentless, 
savage  disposition  is  sometimes  so  called. 
A  "  bull-dog  courage  "  is  one  that 
flinches  from  no  dtinger.  The  "bull- 
dog" was  the  dog  formerly  used  iu  bull- 
baiting. 

Bull-dogs,  in  University  slang,  are 
the  two  myrmidons  of  the  proctor,  who 
attend  his  lieels  like  dogs,  and  are  ready 
to  spring  on  any  offending  undergraduate 
like  bull-dogs.     (.SVr  Mykmidons.) 

Bull-necked.  TheBull-necked  Forger. 
Cagliostio,  lh('  huge  impostor,  was  so 
called.     (I7f:M795.) 

Bull-ring.  '{See  Mayor  of  the  Bull- 
Eixd.) 

Bull's  Eye.  A  smtiU  cloud  suddenly 
appearing,  seemingly  in  violent  motion, 
and  growing  out  of  itself.  It  soon 
cover's  the  entire  vault  of  heaven,  pro- 
ducing a  tumult  of  wind  and  rain. 
(1  Kings  xviii.  44.) 

Ball's  Eye.   The  inner  disc  of  a  target. 

"A  little  way  from  the  centre  there  is  a  spot 
where  the  shots  are  thickly  gathered  ;  some  few 
have  hit  the  liuH's-eye."— i^/sA'c  ;  Excursimis,  etc., 
chap.  vi.  p.  ir.s. 

To  make  a  bull's  eye.  To  gain  some 
signal  advantage ;  a  successful  coup. 
To  tire  or  shoot  an  arrow  right  into  tlie 
centre  disc  of  the  target. 

Bulls,  in  Stock  Exchange  plirase- 
ology,  means  those  dealers  who  "bull," 
or  try  to  raise  the  price  of  stock,  with 
the  view  of  effecting  sales.  A  bull- 
account  is  a  speculation  made  under  the 
liope  that  the  stock  purchased  will  rise 
before  tlie  day  of  settlement.  {See  Beab.) 

Bullet.  Erery  bullet  has  its  billet. 
Nothing  happens  by  chance,  and  no  act 


Bulletin 


187 


Bun 


is  altogether  without  some  effect.  ' '  There 
is  a  divinity  that  shapes  our  euds,  rough 
hew  them  as  we  will."  Another  mean- 
ing is  this  :  an  arrow  or  bullet  is  not 
discharged  at  random,  hut  at  some  mark 
or  for  some  deliberate  purpose. 

"  Let  tlic  arrow  fly  that  lias  a  mark.''— Crt'snc 
Dunrid,  rliaii.  XK. 

Bulletin.  French  for  a  certificate. 
An  ofticial  report  of  an  officer  to  his 
superior,  or  of  medical  attendants  re- 
specting the  health  of  persons  of  notor- 
iety ;  so  called  because  they  were  au- 
tlienticated  by  an  official  //«//«  or  seal. 
(8pani.sh,  holcliu,  a  Avarrant ;  Italian, 
Ijitlkttiiio,  a  roll.) 

Bulling  the  Barrel  is  poui-ing  water 
iuto  a  rum  cask,  when  it  is  nearly  empty, 
to  prevent  its  leaking.  The  water,  which 
gets  impregnated  with  the  spirit  and  is 
veiy  intoxicating,  is  called  hidl. 

Seamen  talk  of  hiiU'uuj  the  teapot 
(making  a  second  brew),  hi(U'i)tg  the 
coffee,  etc. 

Bullion  proi)erly  means  the  mint 
wliere  holla,  little  round  coins,  are  made. 
Subsequently  the  metal  in  the  mint. 

Bully.  To  overbear  with  words.  A 
hxlhf  is  a  blustering  menacer.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  biih/ian,  to  bellow  like  a  bull.) 

It  is  often  used,  without  any  mixtm-e 
of  reproof,  as  a  term  of  eudeai-meut, 
as: — 

"  ()  «\veet  Imllv  Bottom."— 3/((f8Hni)nf)-  Xic/hfn 
1 1  nam,  iv.  4. 

"1{|.'<<    thee,  hiilly  diictor."  —  J/i-iTj/  JFa-cs  <■/ 

Bully-boy  (-1).  A  jolly  companion, 
a  '' lirirk."  (Genuan,  bulile,  a  lover; 
Lii/iler,  a  gallant.) 

"  We  lie  three  pcinr  mariners 
Newly  come  froiii  the  seas, 
We  spend  our  lives  in  jeopardy, 
While  others  live  at  ease  ; 
Shall  we  go  dance  the  round,  the  round. 
Shall  we  go  dance  the  round  ? 
And  he  that  is  a  Imlly  lioy 
Come  pledge  me  on  this  ground." 

IJciitejumelia.    UCM.) 

Bully-rook.  A  blustering  cheat.  Like 
///?////,  it  is  sometimes  used  without  any 
offensive  meaning.  Thus  the  Host,  in 
T/ie  Merry  JJ'iren  of  Jl'iudxor,  addresses 
Sir  John  Falstaff,  Ford,  and  Page,  etc., 
as  hiillij-rook — "How  now,  my  bully- 
rook 'r"  equal  to  "  my  fine  fellow." 

V  A  hidlij  rake  is  "  one  who  fights 
for  fighting's  sake."  To  hulbi-ray  is  to 
intimidate  ;  hallij-raggbuj  is  abusive  in- 
timidation. According  to  Halliwell,  a 
rag  is  a  scold,  and  hence  a  "ragging" 
means  a  scolding.    Connected  with  rage. 

Bum-bailiff. 

The  French  pousftc-cul  seems  to  favour 


the  notion  that  A/f/;/-bailiff  is  no  corrup- 
tion. These  officers  are  frequently  re- 
ferred to  as  buni^. 

'•Scout  me  for  him  at  the  corner  of  the  orchard, 
likea  lium-liailift.' 

S:ial;,:<i,rnre:  Tndftli  y!o)it,ui.4. 

Bum-boat.  A  small  wide  boat  to 
carry  provisions  to  vessels  Ij'ing  off  shore. 
Also  called  "dirt-boats,"  being  used  for 
removing  filth  from  ships  Ij'ing  in  the 
Thames.  (Dutch,  hamboot,  a  wide  fish- 
ing boat.  In  Canada  a  i)unt  is  called  a 
ban.  A  bitn  is  a  receptacle  for  keeping 
fish  alive.) 

Bumble.  A  beadle.  So  called  from 
the  officious,  overbearing  beadle  in 
Dickens's  Olitcr  Taist. 

Bumbledom.  The  dominion  of  an 
overbearing  parish  oflicer,  tlie  aiTO- 
gance  of  parish  authorities,  the  conceit 
of  parish  dignity.     {'See  aboce.) 

Bummarees.  A  class  of  middlemen 
or  fish-jobbers  in  Billingsgate  Market, 
who  get  a  living  by  bannnareeiiig,  i.e. 
buying  parcels  of  fish  from  the  sales- 
men, and  tlien  retailing  them.  A  cor- 
ruj)tiou  of  hotuie  iiiarer,  good  fresh  fish, 
or  the  seller  thereof.  According  to  the 
Dictionnaire  de  f  Acadeiiiie,  )itaree  means 
toate  sorte  de poisson  dv  iiier  qae  it'e.st  pas 
sali.     Bonne  marie,  maree  fraiche. 

Bumper.  A  full  glass,  generally 
connected  with  a  "toast."  Dr.  Arn 
says  a  bumper  is  when  the  surface  of 
the  wine  bum^js  up  in  the  middle. 
(French,  bomber,  to  render  convex,  to 
bulge  or  swell  out.) 

"A  fancied  connection  with  hump,  a  swelling, 
has  not  only  iiiHuenced  the  form  of  the  word, 
hut  [has]  added  the  notion  of  fulness.'"— .S'/.ca',  : 
Utijitioliyirid  iJirtiuiiarii. 

Bumpkin.  A  loutish  person.  (Dutch, 
boomken,  a  sprout,  a  fool.)  This  word 
very  closely  resembles  the  word  "cliit." 
{See  Chitty.) 

Bumptious.  AiTogant,  full  of  mighty 
airs  and  graces ;  aj)t  to  take  offence  at 
presumed  slights.  A  corruption  of  pre- 
sumptuous, first  into  "sumptious,"  then 
to  bumijtious. 

Bun.  A  small  cake.  (Irish,  bobineog, 
Scotch,  bauniick. ) 

V  In  regard  to  "hot  cross  buns"  on 
Good  Friday,  it  may  be  stated  that  the 
Greeks  offered  to  Apollo,  Diana,  Hecate, 
and  the  Moon,  cakes  with  "horns." 
Such  a  cake  was  called  a  baaft,  and  (it  is 
said)  never  grew  mouldy.  The  "  cross  " 
symbolised  the  four  quarters  of  the  moon. 
"  Good  Friday  comes  this  mouth  :  the  old  woman 
runs 
WitUoneapenny,  two  a  penny  '  hot  cross  liuns,' 


Buncli 


188 


Burbon 


Whose  virtue  is,  if  you  believe  what's  said, 
They'll  not   gniw   iiioukly    like    the   cuminoa 
bread." 

Poor  Robin:  Almanack,  173.!. 

Bunch  of  Fives.    A  slang  tcrai  for 

tlie  liauil  or  fist. 

Buncle  {Joint).  "  A  prodigious  hand 
at  matrimony,  divinity,  a  song,  and  a 
peck."  He  marries  seven  wives,  loses  all 
ill  the  flower  of  their  age,  is  inconsolable 
for  two  or  three  days,  then  resigns  him- 
self to  tlie  decrees  of  Providence,  and 
marries  again.  ( TIic  Life  and  Opiiiions  of 
John  Buncle,  TJm/.,  by  Thomas  Amor;/.) 

"John  is  a  kind  of  Innocent  Henry  VII 1.  of 
private  Me."—Lei</h  Hunt. 

Bundle.  Bundle  off.  Get  away.  To 
hididle  a  person,  off,  is  to  send  him  away 
iincerpmoniously.  Sintilar  to  pack  off. 
Tlie  alLusidu  is  oln'ious. 

Bundle  of  Sticks,  ^sop,  in  one  of 
his  fables,  shows  tlifit  sticks  one  bj-  one 
may  be  readily  broken  ;  not  so  when 
several  are  bound  together  in  a  bundle. 
The  lesson  taught  is,  that  ' '  Union  gives 
strength." 

"Tliov  n.iw  lay  to  lionrt  the  lessiin  of  the  Imn- 
dliMif  sticks.  ■-77«'  Tinii.t. 

Bundschuh  [hit/hloirs].  An  insur- 
rection of  the  peasants  of  Germany  in 
the  sixteenth  centui'y.  So  called  from 
tlie  highlows  or  clouted  shoon  of  the 
insurgents. 

Bung.  A  cant  term  for  a  toper. 
"  Away,  .  .  .  you  fdtliy  bung,"  says 
Doll  to  Pistol.    \2  ITrnr/i  IV.,  ii.  4.) 

Brother  Bang.  A  cant  term  for  a 
publican. 

Bung  up.  Close  up,  as  a  bung  closes 
a  cask. 

Bun'galow  (Indian).  The  house  of 
a  European  in  India,  generally  a  ground 
floor  with  a  verpndah  all  round  it,  and 
the  roof  tliatched  to  keep  off  the  hot 
rays  of  the  sun.  There  are  English 
burtgalows  at  Birchington  and  on  the 
Norfolk  coast  near  Cromer.  A  dah- 
hangahiv  is  a  caravansary  or  house 
built  by  the  Government  for  the  use  of 
travellers.     (Hindustani,  bangld.) 

Bungay.  Go  to  Bungag  vith  you, ! — 
i.e.  get  away  and  don't  bother  me,  or 
don't  talk  such  stuff.  Bungay,  in 
Suffolk,  used  to  be  famous  for  the  manu- 
facture of  leather  breeches,  once  very 
fashionable.  Persons  who  required  new 
ones,  or  to  have  their  old  ones  new- 
seated,  went  or  sent  to  Bungay  for  that 
purpose.  Hence  rose  the  cant  saying, 
"  Go  to  Bungay,  and  get  your  breeches 
mended,"  shortened  into  "Go  to  Bungay 
with  you! " 


Bungay.  3[y  castle  of  Bungay.  {See 
under  Castle.) 

Bunkum.  Claptrap.  A  representa- 
tive at  Washington  being  asked  why  he 
made  such  a  flowery  and  angry  speech, 
so  wholly  uncalled  for,  made  answer,  "  I 
was  not  speaking  to  the  House,  but  to 
Buncombe,"  which  he  represented  (North 
Carolina). 

"  Anicrii-a,  too,  will  (Ind  that  caucuses,  stiinip- 
oralnry,and  siieeclies  to  Bunconihe  will  not  carry 
men  to  tlie  iiiiinortal  gods."— ri(i?i/'(';  Latter-day 
J'aiHiihlits  U'arliaments,  \>.  it:)). 

Bunny.  A  rabbit.  So  called  from 
the  provincial  word  bnn,  a  tail.  The 
Scotch  say  of  the  hare,  "  she  cocks  her 
bun."  Bunny,  a  itiminutive  of  bun, 
applied  to  a  rabbit,  means  the  animal 
with  the  "  little  tail." 

"  Bunny,  lying  in  the  grass, 
Saw  tile  sliinv  coliiiun  p.-iss." 
Jlnt  llarte  :  Battle  Baiiini,  stanza  I. 

Bunsby  {Jack).  Captain  Cuttle's 
friend ;  a  Sir  Oracle  of  his  neighViours  ; 
profoundly  mysterious,  and  koejiing  his 
eye  always  fixed  upon  invisible  dream- 
land somewhere  be3-ond  the  limits  of 
infinite  space,  {liickenx :  Jlombei/  and 
Son.) 

Bunting.  In  Somersetshire  buutujg 
means  sifting  Hour.  Sieves  were  at  one 
time  made  of  a  strong  gi'iizy  woollen 
cloth,  which  being  tough  iiud  ciipiible  of 
resisting  wear,  was  found  suitalile  for 
flags,  and  now  has  changed  its  reference 
from  sieves  to  flags.  A  "  bunt-iuill  "  is 
a  machine  for  sifting  com. 

'■  N'ot  unlike  ...  a  baker's  luint,  when  he  separ- 
ates the  Hour  from  the  ]iy:u\."—Stc(tmaii. 

Biiphagos.  Pausanias  (viii.  '11)  tells 
us  that  tlie  son  of  Jujihet  was  called  Bu- 
phagos  (glutton),  as  Hercules  was  called 
Adcphagus,  because  on  one  occasion  ho 
ate  a  whole  ox  {Atlieneeos  x.).  The 
French  call  the  English  "  Beefeaters," 
because  they  are  eaters  of  large  joints  of 
meat,  and  not  of  delicate,  well-dressed 
viands.  Neither  of  these  lias  anj'  rela- 
tion to  our  Yeomen  of  the  Guards. 
{See  Beefeatees,  page  115.) 

Burbon.  A  knight  assailed  by  a 
rabble  rout,  who  batter  his  shield  to 
pieces,  and  compel  him  to  cast  it  aside. 
Talus  renders  him  assistance,  and  is  in- 
formed by  the  rescued  knight  that  Four- 
de'lis,  his  own  true  love,  had  been  enticed 
away  from  liim  by  Grantorto.  When 
the  rabble  is  dispersed,  and  Fourde'lis 
i-ecovered,  Burbon  places  her  on  his 
steed,  and  rides  off  as  fast  as  possible. 
Burbon  is  Henri  IV.  of  France;  Fourde'- 
lis, the  ki)igdom  of  France;  the  rabble 
rout,  the  Itoman  Catholic  party  tha-t  tried 


Buchardise 


189 


Burn 


to  set  him  aside  ;  the  shield  he  is  com- 
pelled to  abandon  is  Protestantism ;  his 
carrying  off  Fourde'lis  is  his  obtaining 
the  kingdom  by  a  coxp  after  his  renunci- 
ation of  the  Protestant  cause.  {Spciiscr  : 
Faerie  Qiieeiie,  v.  11.) 

Burchardise.  To  speak  ex  eathedra  ; 
to  speak  wth  authority.  Bui'chard  (who 
died  1026)  compiled  a  volume  of  canons 
of  such  undisputed  authority,  that  any 
sentence  it  gave  was  beyond  ajJiieal. 

Burchell  {Mr.').  A  baronet  who  passes 
himself  off  as  a  poor  man,  his  real  name 
and  title  being  Sir  William  Thoruhill. 
His  favourite  cant  word  is  "Fudge." 
{GuUhinith  :  Viear  of  U'alxejield.) 

Burd  {Helen).  The  Scotch  female 
impersonation  of  the  French  preu.c  or 
pr/fd'/ioiiniie,  with  this  difference,  that 
she  is  discreet,  rather  than  brave  and 
Avise. 

Burden  of  a  Song.  The  words  re- 
jieated  in  each  verse,  the  chorus  or  re- 
frain. It  is  the  French  /lo/trdon,  the  big 
drone  of  a  bagjiipe,  or  double -diapason 
of  an  organ,  used  in  fortii  parts  and 
choruses. 

Burden  of  Isidnh.  The  "measure''  of 
a  proijhecy  announcing  a  calamity,  or  a 
denunciation  of  hardships  on  those 
against  whom  the  burden  is  uttered. 
(Isa.  xiii.  1,  etc.) 

The  bnrden  of  proof.  The  obligation 
to  prove  sometliing. 

'■Tlie  liiu'tlen  of  proof  is  on  tbe  jnrty  Ijoliling 
the  ;ittiniiative "  [because  no  one  can  jinive  a 
iie^'ative,  except  liy  reilKctiu  ad  ((hxurdum]. — 
i!ni  iihiit':  On  Evidence  {.vol.  i.  part  ■_',  cliap.  iii. 
1..  lo:,.. 

Bure  (2  syl.).  The  first  woman,  and 
sister  of  Borr,  the  father  of  Odiu.  (.bVrt«- 
dinavian  ini/t/iolo(/i/.) 

Bureauc'racy.  A  system  of  govern- 
ment iu  wliich  the  business  is  carried  on 
in  bureaux  or  departments.  The  French 
tinreoH  means  not  only  the  office  of  a 
public  functionary,  but  also  the  whole 
staff  of  officers  attached  to  the  depart- 
ment. As  a  word  of  reproach,  bureau- 
cracy has  nearly  the  same  meaning  as 
Dickens's  word,  rcd-tapeisni  (q.i\). 

Burglar  [bitrg-hrron'].  The  robber 
of  a  burgh,  castle,  or  house.  Burglary 
is  called,  iu  ancient  law-books,  hanie- 
seeken  or  ha  in-seen,  house-violation. 

Burgun'dian.  A  Burejundian  hloir, 
i.e.  decapitation.  The  Due  de  Biron, 
who  was  jjut  to  death  for  treason  by 
Henri  IV.,  was  told  in  his  youth,  by  a 
fortune-teller,  "  to  beware  of  a  Burgun- 
diau  blow."     When  going  to  execution, 


he  asked  who  was  to  be  his  executioner, 
and  was  told  he  was  a  man  from  Bur- 
gundy. 

Burial  of  an  Ass.    No  burial  at  all. 

"He  shall  he  Imiiea  with  the  burial  of  an  ass, 
drawn  and  cast  forth  licyoud  the  yates  of  Jeru- 
salem."—Jer.  xxii.  111. 

Bu'ridan's  Ass.  A  man  of  inde- 
cision ;  like  one  "  on  double  business 
bound,  who  stands  in  pause  where  he 
should  first  begin,  and  both  neglects," 
Bu'ridan  the  scholastic  said:  "If  a 
liuugrj-  ass  were  placed  exactly  between 
two  hay -stacks  in  every  respect  equal, 
it  would  starve  to  death,  because  there 
would  be  no  motive  why  it  should  go  to 
one  rather  than  to  the  other." 

Burke.  To  murder  by  placing  some- 
thing over  the  mouth  of  the  person  at- 
tacked to  prevent  his  giving  alarm.  So 
cidled  from  Burke,  an  Irishnum,  who 
used  to  suffocate  his  victims  and  murder 
them  for  the  sole  i5uii)ose  of  selling  tlie 
dead  bodies  to  surgeons  for  dissection. 
Hanged  at  Edinburgh,  1829. 

To  burke  a  question.  To  strangle  it  in 
its  birth.  The  pubUealio)i  was  burked: 
suppressed  before  it  was  circulated. 

Burkers.  Body-snatchers ;  those  who 
kill  by  burking. 

Burl,  Burler.  In  Cumberland,  a 
liurler  is  the  master  of  the  revels  at  a 
bidden-weddiug,  who  is  to  see  that  the 
guests  are  well  furnished  with  drink. 
To  burl  is  to  carouse  or  pour  out  htpior. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  bi/rlian.) 

"  Mr.  H.  called  for  a  quart  uf  beer.  ...  He  told 
nie  to  burl  out  the  beer,  as  he  was  in  a  hurr.v,  and 
I  burled  out  the  glass  and  gave  it  to  liim."—T/(C 
Times:  Law Ilcpurts, 

Burlaw  or  Byrlaw.  A  sort  of  Lynch- 
law  in  the  rural  districts  of  Scotland. 
The  inhabitants  of  a  district  used  to 
make  certain  laws  ioj  their  own  observ- 
ance, and  appoint  one  of  their  neigh- 
bours, called  the  Burlau'-nian,  to  carry 
out  the  jjaius  and  penalties.  The  word 
is  a  corrupt  form  of  bi/r-law,  byr=a 
burgh,  common  in  such  names  as  JJerb//, 
the  burgh  on  the  Derwent ;  Urimsbp 
(.q.r.),  Grims-town. 

Burlesque.  Fatherof  burlesque poetri/. 
Hijipo'uax  of  Ephcsus.     (Sixth  century 

B.C.) 

Burlond.  A  giant  whose  legs  Sir 
Try'amour  cut  off.  {liomanee  cf  Sir 
Tryamour.) 

Burn.  His  monei/  burns  a  hole  in  his 
poeket.  He  cannot  keep  it  iu  his  pocket, 
or  forbear  spending  it. 


Burn 


ifto 


Busby 


To  hum  uiic^s  hodls.  To  cut  oueself  ofY 
from  all  moaus  or  hope  of  retreat.  The 
allusion  is  to  Julius  Cffisar  and  other 
generals,  who  burned  their  boats  or  ships 
when  they  invaded  a  foreign  country, 
in  order  that  their  soldiers  might  feel 
that  they  must  cither  conquer  the 
country  or  die,  as  retreat  would  be 
impossible. 

To  burti  (Dies  Jii/ijryti.  To  suffer  loss 
T)y  speculation  or  interference.  The 
allusion  is  to  taking  chestnuts  from 
the  hrc. 

"  lie  li;is  brcii  ImNlciiir.-  u|i  tlioso  vnttcii  ircm- 
wdi'ks.  I  liilcl  liini  lie  wiMild  liiirii  Ills  liii.wrs."— 
Mrs.  LijHii  Lhiliiii. 

Yon  caiui'U  hiini  I  lie  cmidh'  at  both  r/i/h. 
You  cannot  do  two  opi)osite  things  at 
one  and  tlic  .sunu;  time ;  j'ou  cannot 
exhaust  your  energies  in  one  direction, 
and  yet  reserve  tliem  unimpaired  for 
something  else.  If  you  go  to  bed  late 
you  cannot  get  uj)  early.  You  cannot 
eat  your  cake  and  have  it  too.  Ytni 
cannot  serve  God  and  Mammon.  You 
cannot  serve  two  masters,  runrsiiis  deux 
lirrrcx,  rt  hs  iikiikikcs.  (La  Foiitaiiic.) 
Siiinil  tiorberc  uc  Jiurc  iioii  jjonsiiiii. 

IFc  burn  ih(\ili<ihl.  We  waste  time  in 
talk  instead  of  action.  {Xhulcvspcarc  : 
Mcni/  IViccs  of  Jl'iiidfior,  ii.  1.) 

Burn,  a  stream.  A  variant  of  bourn 
(Anglo-Saxon,  h/ni/r,  a  brook,  as  in 
VVintcrbourne,Burnhani,Swiuburn,etc  ). 

Burning  Crown  (J).  A  crown  of 
red-hot  iron  set  on  the  head  of  regicides. 

"He  \v;is  ;uljnilL'eil 
To  have  liis  liead  se;iri'<l  witli  a  l)iii'uiiij,'  crown," 
Tniijeilii  (>/  lliiffmanii.    ( li«l.  i 

Burnt.  TJie  hxDit  child  drradx  fhr 
fur.  Once  cauglit,  twice  shy.  "What  I 
wouldst  thou  have  a  serpent  sting  tluie 
twice':'" 

Burnt    Candlemas    Day.    Feb.    '_*, 

13")-j-(i,  wlnu  Edward  III.  marched 
through  tlie  Lothians  witli  tire  and 
svvonl.  He  burnt  to  the  gronud  Edin- 
burgh and  Haddington,  and  then  re- 
treated from  want  of  prorisions.  The 
Scots  call  the  period  "Burnt  Candlemas." 
{See  "Epoclas  of  History,"  Emjhnid 
under  the  I'lanlnyciietn  ;  and  Macmillan's 
series,  Little  ILisforij  of  IScotland,  edited 
by  Prof.  Freeman.) 

Bursa  (a  bull's  hide).  So  the  citadel 
of  Carthage  was  called.  The  tale  is 
that  when  Dido  came  to  Africa  she 
bouglit  of  the  natives  "  as  much  land  as 
could  be  encompassed  by  a  bidl's  hide." 
The  agreement  was  made,  and  Dido  cut 
the  hide  into  thongs,  so  as  to  enclose  a 
space  sufficient  for  a  citadel. 


The  following  is  a  similai'  story  :  The 
Yakutsks  granted  to  the  Russian  ex- 
plorers as  much  land  as  they  could 
encompass  witli  a  cow's  hide  ;  but  the 
Kussians,  cutting  the  hide  into  strips, 
obtained  land  enough  for  the  port  and 
town  of  Yakutsk. 

The  Indians  liavc  a  somcwhtat  similar 
tradition.  The  fifth  incarnation  of 
Vishnu  was  in  the  form  of  a  dwarf  called 
Vamen.  Vamcn,  presenting  himself 
before  the  giant  Baly,  ;vsked  as  a  reward 
for  services  as  much  land  as  lie  coidd 
measure  in  three  i»aces  to  build  a  hut 
on.  Baly  laughed  at  the  request,  and 
freely  granted  it.  Wliereupon  the 
dwarf  grew  so  prodigiously  large  that, 
with  tlirec  paces,  he  strode  orer  the 
whole  world.  (Soinierat:  Vo'/'if/rs,  vol. 
i.p.'il.) 

Burst.  To  inform  against  an  accom- 
plice. Slang  variety  of  ".split"  (tuni 
king's  evidence,  imjieach).  The  person 
who  does  this  spliln  or  breaks  up  the 
whole  concern. 

Bury  the  Hatchet.  Let  bygones 
be  by-gones.  The  "  (heat  Sjiirit  "  com- 
manded the  North  American  Indians, 
when  they  smoked  the  cal'umet  or  peace- 
pipe,  to  bury  their  hatchet,  scalpiug- 
knives,  and  war- clubs  in  the  ground, 
that  all  thought  of  hostility  might  be 
buiied  out  of  sight. 

"  It,  is  iiiiuli  lo  he  rej-'ietteil  lluit  the  AiueiieHii 
poveriinient,  h;n  iiiK'  liroiitrlit  the  f-'i-eat  war  to  a 
eoncliisioii,  diJ  not  Iniiy  the  U.it'cliet  iiltogethcr." 
—'I'lie  Timex. 

"  Hiiiied  was  the  Idoodv  liatrhet  ; 
liiiried  was  the  dreadful  wai-cluli  ; 
Hiiried  were  all  warlike  weaiioiis, 
And  the  war-cry  was  forKolteii  ; 
Theu  was  iicaceaiiioiif.'  the  nations." 

Loiifi/i How  :  Jliduiilhii,  xiii. 

Burying,  Cn  )ii((tio)i.  The  Parsees 
neither  Imry  or  burn  their  dead,  because 
they  will  not  defile  the  elements  (fire 
and  ciirth).  So  they  carry  their  dead 
to  the  Tower  of  Silence,  and  leave  the 
body  there  to  be  devoured  by  vultures. 
('S're  Xinetecnth  Ccntiirij,  October,  1893, 
p.  Gil.) 

Burying  at  Cross  Roads.  {Sec 
Cross- KoADs.) 

Bus.  A  contraction  of  Oiiniib/ts.  Of 
course,  Omuibi,  as  a  plural,  though  some- 
times used,  is  quite  absurd. 

"Busby  (A).  A  frizzled  wig.  Doctor 
Busby,  master  of  Westminster  school, 
did  not  wear  a  frizzled  wig,  but  a  close 
cap,  somewhat  like  a  Welsh  wig.  {See 
Wigs.) 

Busby.  The  tall  cap  of  a  hussar, 
artillery-man,  etc.,  which  hangs  from 
the  top  over  the  right  shoulder. 


Bush 


191 


Butcher 


Bush.  One  heats  the  hush,  hut  another 
has  the  Hare,  i.e.  oue  does  the  work,  but 
another  reaps  the  profit.  The  Latius 
said,  Sic  cos  iion  robis.  The  allusion  is 
to  beating  the  bush  to  start  game.  {See 
Beating.  ) 

Ouod  iriiie  needs  no  bush.  A  good  ar- 
ticle will  make  itself  known  without 
being  puffed.  The  booths  in  faii-s  used 
to  be  dressed  with  ivy,  to  indicate  that 
wine  was  sold  there,  ivy  being  sacred  to 
Bacchus.  An  ivy-bush  was  once  the 
common  sign  of  taverns,  and  especially  of 
private  houses  where  beer  or  wine  could 
be  obtamed  by  travellers.  In  France,  a 
jjeasant  wlio  sells  his  vineyard  has  to  put 
a  green  bush  over  liis  door. 

The  proverb  is  Latin,  and  shows  that 
the  Romans  introduced  the  custom  into 
Europe.  "  ]'ino  rendih'di  hed'era  non 
opus  est  "  {Colitiiu'lfa).  It  was  also  com- 
mon to  France.  "^1«  rin  qid  so  tend 
bien,  il  lie  fa  at  point  dc  lierre.'" 

"  If  it  lie  true  that  good  wine  needs  no  liusli,'tii 
true  tUat  a  i,-ood  play  needs  no  jirologue." 

Shaheapeare  :  As  You  Like  It  i.BiiiIo,!-'iU'). 

To  take  to  the  bush.  To  become  bush- 
rangers, like  riuiaway  convicts  who  hve 
])\'  plunder.  The  bush  in  this  case 
means  what  the  Dutch  call  boseh,  the 
imcleared  land  as  opposed  to  towns  and 
clearings. 

"Ever\  thing  l)eins  much  cheaper  in  Toronto 
th:iii  away   iu   the    \nisli."—0'cikie :   Life   in  the 

Wunds. 

Bushel.  To  measure  other  people^s 
eorii  hi/  one's  own  bushel.  To  make  one- 
self the  standard  of  right  and  wrong  ;  to 
api^raise  everji;hing  as  it  accords  or  dis- 
agrees with  one's  own  habits  of  thought 
and  preconceived  oj)inious  ;  to  be  ex- 
tremely bigoted  and  self-opiniated. 

Under  a  bushel.  Secretly  ;  in  order  to 
liide  it. 

"  !)!>  mm  lii;ht  a  caudle  and  put  it  under  a 
builie|v"-Matl.  V.  li. 

Bushman  (Dutch,  Boschjesman).  Na- 
tives of  South  Africa  who  live  in  the 
"bush";  the  aborigines  of  the  Cape; 
dwellers  in  the  Australian  "bush;"  a 
bush  farmer. 

"  Buslnueu  ....  are  the  only  nuniades  in  the 
country.  They  never  cultivate  the  soil,  nor  rear 
any  domestic  animal  save  wretched  dogs."— 
Livinfjstone :  Trirveh,  chap.  ii.  p.  55. 

Bushrangers.  Escaped  convicts  who 
have  taken  refuge  in  the  Australian 
"  bush,"  and  subsist  by  plunder. 

"The  bushrangers  at  first  were  absentees  [i.e. 
escaped  convicts]  who  were  soon  allured  or 
driven  to  theft  and  vi(dence.  So  early  as  Iww 
they  had,  by  systematic  robbery,  excited  feelings 
of  alarm."—  Went :  Tasmania. 

Business,  Busy.  Saxon,  bi/sffian,  the 
verb,  bijsiff  (busy) ;  Dutch,  bezir/cn  ;  Ger- 
man,    bcsorgniss    (care,    management)  ; 


sorijc  (care) ;  Saxon,  seo<jan  (to  see). 
From  the  German  sort/en  we  get  the 
French  soiyncr  (to  look  after  something), 
soigne,  and  be-sogne  (business,  or  that 
which  is  oiu-  care  and  concern),  with 
he-soin  (something  looked  after  but  not 
found,  hence  "want");  the  Italian 
hesofjnio  (a  beggar). 

Business  To-morrow.  When  tlio 
Spartans  seized  u2)ou  Tholtes,  they  placed 
Arc'hias  over  the  garrison.  Pelop'idas, 
with  eleven  others,  banded  together  to 
put  Archias  to  the  sword.  A  letter  con- 
taining full  details  of  the  plot  was  given 
to  the  S})artau  polemarch  at  the  banquet 
table;  but  Archias  thrust  Iho  letter 
under  his  cushion,  saying,  "  Business  to- 
morrow." But  long  ere  that  sun  arose 
he  was  numbered  with  the  dead. 

Bu'sirane  (3  syl.).  An  enchanter 
bound  by  Brit'omart.  {Spenser  :  Faerie 
Hueene,  book  iii.  11,  12.) 

Busi  ris.  A  king  of  Egypt,  who  used 
to  immolate  to  the  gods  all  strangers 
who  set  foot  on  his  shores.  Hercules 
was  seized  by  liim ;  and  would  have 
fallen  a  victim,  but  he  broke  his  chain, 
and  slew  the  inhospitable  king. 

Busi' ris,  according  to  Milton,  is  the 
Pharaoh  who  was  drowned  in  the  Red  Sea. 

"Ve.\'d  the  Red-Seii  coast,  whose  waves   o'er- 
threw 
Busiris  and  his  jremphian  chi\  airy." 

Paradise  Lost,  book  i.  3ofi,  .inr. 

Buskin.  Tragedy.  The  Greek  tra- 
gic actors  used  to  wear  a  sandal  some 
two  or  three  inches  thick,  to  elevate 
thcii-  statiu-e.  To  this  sole  was  attached 
a  very  elegant  buskin,  and  the  whole 
was  called  cothur'nus.  {See  Sock.) 
"  Or  what  (though  rare)  of  later  age 
Ennobled  hat  h  the  buskined  stage." 

Milton :  II  Peiiseroso,  79,  Sn. 

Buss.  To  kiss.  (Welsh,  bus,  the 
human  lip ;  Gaelic,  bus,  the  mouth  ; 
French,  baiser,  a  kiss.) 

"  Yon  towers,  whose  wanton  tops  do  buss  the 
chiuds, 
Must  kiss  their  own  feet." 

Uluiluspeare  :  Troilus  and  Cnssida,  iv.  5. 

Busterich.  A  Genuan  god.  His 
idol  may  stQl  be  seen  at  Sondershusa, 
the  castle  of  Schwartzenburg. 

Busy  as  a  Bee.  The  ctjuivalent 
Latin  phrase  is  '^  Satagis  tamquain  iiius  in 
matella.'^     {See  Similes.) 

Butcher.  The  Butcher.  Achmed 
Pasha  was  called  djezzar  (the  butcher), 
and  is  said  to  have  whipped  off  the  heads 
of  his  seven  wives.  He  is  famous  for 
his  defence  of  Acre  against  Napoleon  I. 

The  Butcher.  John,  ninth  lord  Cliiford, 
also  called  The  Black,  died  1461. 


Butcher 


192 


Buttons 


The  Bloody  Butcher.  The  Duke  of 
Cumberland,  second  son  of  George  II. 
So  called  from  his  barbarities  iu  sup- 
pressing the  rebelUou  of  the  youug  Pre- 
tender. 

The  Roijidist  Butcher.  Blaise  de  Mout- 
luc,  distinguished  for  his  cruelties  to  the 
Protestants  in  the  reign  of  Charles  IX. 
of  France  (1.502-1572). 

Butcher  Boots.  The  black  boots 
■worn  en  pttiic  tciiue  in  the  huutiug  field. 

Butter.  Soft  soap,  soft  solder  (prou. 
SKic-der),  "  wijjing  down  "  with  winning 
words.  FioH'h  expressively  calls  it  ' '  the 
milk  of  human  kindness  churned  into 
butter."  (Anglo-Suxon,  hntcrc  ovhiitijre, 
Latin,  buti/riiiii,  Greek,  boidyrvii,  i.e. 
hoM-turoi,  cow-cheese,  as  distinguished 
from  goat-  or  ewe-butter.) 

Soft  words  butter  no  paraiiips.  Saying 
"  '  Be  thou  fed,'  will  not  feed  a  hungrj' 
man."  Mere  words  will  not  fuid  salt  tu 
our  porridge,  or  butter  to  our  parsnips. 

'■  Kiue  words,  aiys  mw  lioiiicly  old  lU'overli,  l)Ul- 
tei"  ncj  iiaisuiiis."— ioirtW. 

He  looks  as  if  butter  ivould  not  melt  in 
his  mouth.  He  looks  like  a  dolt.  He 
looks  quite  harmless  and  exjjressly  made 
to  be  played  \\\Km.  Yet  beware,  and 
"  touch  not  a  cat  but  a  glove." 

"She  smiles  aud  laii!,'iiislies,  .vuu'il  think  that 
Initter  would  uut  melt  iu  \u^i\ii'>ulh." —Tluickeray : 
Pendennis,  l.\. 

He  knows  on  which  side  his  bread  is 
buttered.  He  knows  his  own  interest. 
Scit  utlforo. 

He  that  has  good  store  of  butter  may 
lay  it  thick  on  his  bread.  Cut  multum  est 
pip^ris,  ctiain  oleribus  imniiscct. 

To  butter  one^s  bread  on  both  sides.  To 
be  wastef  ully  extravagant  and  luxurious. 

Butter-fingers.      Said  of  a  ijersou 

who  lets  things  fall  out  of  his  hand.    His 

fingers  are  slipper}-,  and  things  slip  from 

them  as  if  they  were  greased  with  butter. 

Often  heard  on  the  cricket  field. 

"  I  never  was  a  liulter-Bugers,  thoujih  a  bad 
batter."—//.  Kinyslcij. 

Butter-tooth  (A).  A  wide  front 
tooth.     (.SVf  Buck-tooth.) 

Buttered  Ale.  A  beverage  made  of 
ale  or  beer  (without  hops)  mixed  with 
butter,  sugar,  aud  cinnamon. 

Buttercups.  So  called  because  they 
were  once  supposed  to  increase  the  butter 
of  milk.  No  doubt  those  cows  give  the 
best  milk  that  pasture  iu  fields  where 
buttercups  abound,  not  because  these 
flowers  produce  butter,  but  because  they 
grow  only  on  sound,  dry,  old  pastures, 
which  afford  the  best  food.  Miller,  in 
his  Gardener'' s  Bictionary,  says  they  were 
so  called  "under  the  notion  that  tlie 


yellow  coloui-  of  butter  is  owing  to  these 

l^lauts." 

Butterflies,  iu  the  cab  trade,  are 
those  di'ivers  who  take  to  the  occupation 
only  in  summer-time,  and  at  the  best  of 
tlie  season.  At  other  times  they  follow 
some  other  occupation. 

"The  feeliii'-'  of  the  resfiilar  drivers  avainsl 
these  '  biitierllies  '  is  v<'ry  stroug."— .V(i(cfteH</t 
Century  (March   Is'.iii.  p.  i"). 

Butterfly  Kiss  (A).  A  kiss  with 
one's  eyelashes,  that  is,  stroking  the 
cheek  with  one's  eyelashes. 

Button.  A  decoy  iu  an  auction- 
room  ;  so  called  because  he  buttons  or 
ties  the  unwary  to  bargains  offered  for 
sale.  The  button  fiisteus  or  fixes  what 
else  would  slip  away. 

'The  button  of  the  cap.  The  tijj-toj). 
Thus,  iu  Hamlet,  Guildensteni  says: 
''  On  fortune's  cap  we  are  not  the  very 
button"  (act  ii.  sc.  2),  i.e.  the  most 
highly  favoured.  The  button  on  the 
ca}}  was  a  mark  of  honour.  Thus,  iu 
China  to  the  jiresent  liour,  the  first 
grade  of  litertiry  honour  is  the  privilege 
of  adding  a  gold  button  to  the  cap,  a 
custom  adopted  iu  several  collegiate 
schools  of  England.  This  gives  the  ex- 
pression quoted  a  further  force.  Also, 
the  several  grades  of  mtindarius  are  dis- 
tinguished by  a  different  coloured  button 
on  the  toji  of  their  cap. 

Button  (of  a  foil).  The  piece  of  cork 
fixed  to  the  cud  of  a  foil  to  protect  the 
point  and  prevent  injury  iu  fencing. 

Buttons.  The  two  buttons  ou  the 
back  of  a  coat,  iu  the  fall  of  the  back, 
are  a  sm-vival  of  the  buttons  ou  the  back 
of  riding-coats  and  military  frocks  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  occasionally  used  to 
button  back  the  coat-tails. 

A  boy  in  buttons.  A  jjage,  whose 
jacket  iu  front  is  remarkable  for  a  disjjiay 
of  small  round  buttons,  as  close  as  they 
can  be  inserted,  from  chin  to  waist. 

"The  titter  [tingle]  of  an  electric  bell  briuigbl 
a  large  fat  buttons,  with  a  stage  effect  of  belns 
dres-ed  to  look  small."— 7/oh(?(^  ;  Hazard  of  Xeih 
Furtuiics,  (vol.  i.  part  i.  chap.  vii.  p.  5.si. 

He  has  not  all  his  buttons.  He  is  half- 
silly  ;  "  not  all  there  " ;  he  is  "  a  button 
short." 

Bash  my  buttons.  Here,  "buttons" 
means  lot  or  destiny,  aud  "dash"  is  a 
euphemistic  form  of  a  more  offensive 
word. 

The  buttons  eooic  off"  the  foils.  Figura- 
tively, the  courtesies  of  controversy  are 
neglected. 

"  Familiarity  with  controversy  .  .  .  will  have 
accustomed  him  to  the  misadventures  which 
arise  when,  as  sometimes  will  happen  in  the  heat 
of  fence,  the  buttons  come  off  the  toils."— Xnu- 
tecnth  Century  (June,  iwl,  p.  'J-JoX 


Button-liole 


193 


Bygones 


^Tis  in  his  buttons.  He  is  destined  to 
obtain  the  prize ;  he  is  the  accepted 
lover.  It  is  stUl  common  to  hear  boys 
count  their  buttons  to  know  what  trade 
they  are  to  follow,  whether  they  are 
to  do  a  thing  or  not,  and  whether  some 
favourite  favours  them.  ( See  Bacheloe.  ) 

"'Tisiti  his  buttons:  he  'will  carry't."— .S7((i/ve- 
spcare:  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  iii.  a. 

'T/s  not  in  his  buttons.  'Tis  not  in  his 
power,  'tis  not  in  his  lot. 

1^'j  hare  a  soitl  above  buttons.  To  be 
worthy  of  better  things  ;  to  have  abili- 
ties too  good  for  one's  present  employ- 
ment. This  is  explained  by  George 
Colman  in  Sylrcstcr  Dagger  wood :  "My 
father  was  an  eminent  button-maker, . . 
but  I  had  a  soul  above  buttons  .  .  .  and 
panted  for  a  liberal  profession." 

To  put  into  buttons.    To  dress  a  boy  as 
a   "page,"    with   a  jacket  full  in  the    j 
front  with  little  buttons,  generally  me- 
tallic and  very  conspicuous. 

To  take  by  the  button.  To  detain  one 
in  conversation;  to  apprehend,  as,  "to 
take  fortune  by  the  button."  The  allu- 
sion is  to  a  custom,  now  discontinued, 
of  holding  a  person  by  the  button  or 
button-hole  in  conversation. 

Button-hole.  To  button-hole  a  person. 
To  bore  one  with  conversation.  The 
French  have  the  same  locution :  Serrcr  U 
bouton  [ii  quel  qu'un], 

"He  went  about  button-lioling  and  boring 
everyone." — U.  Kinysley :  ilathilcie. 

To  take  one  down  a  button-hole.  To 
take  one  down  a  peg ;  to  lower  one's 
conceit. 

"  Better  miuil  yerselves,  or  I'll  take  ye  down  a 
Imtton-liole  iov:ev."—Mrs.  B.  Stoice:  Uncle  Tom's 
Cabin,  iv. 

Button-hole  (A).  A  flower  inserted 
in  the  button-hole  of  a  coat. 

"  In  fine  weather  he  [the  driver  of  a  hansom] 
will  sport  a  button-hole— Generally  a  dahlia,  or 
some  flower  of  that  i\k."— Nineteenth  Century 
(March,  18'.«,  p.  473). 

Buy  in  (To).  To  collect  stock  by 
purchase  ;  to  withhold  the  sale  of  some- 
thing offered  at  auction,  because  the 
bidding  has  not  reached  the  "reserve 
price." 

Buy  Oflf  (To).  To  give  a  person 
money  to  drop  a  claim  or  put  an  end  to 
contention,  or  to  throw  up  a  partner- 
ship. 

Buy  Out  {To).   To  redeem  or  ransom. 

"  Xdt  lieinL'  able  to  buy  out  his  life  .... 
Dies  ere  the  weary  sun  set." 

Shakespeare :  Comedy  of  Errors,  i.  2. 

Buy  Over  (To).  To  induce  one  by  a 
bribe  to  renounce  his  claim ;  to  gain 
over  by  bribery. 

13 


To  bug  over  a  person'' s  head.  To  out- 
bid another. 

Buy  Up  {To).  To  purchase  stock  to 
such  an  amount  as  to  obtain  a  virtual 
monopoly,  and  thus  command  the  mar- 
ket ;  to  make  a  comer,  as  "to  buy  up 
com,"  etc. 

Buying    a   Pig   in   a   Poke.     [See 

Pig,  etc.) 

Buzfuz  {Serjeant).  A  drivi:ig,  chaff- 
ing, masculine  bar  orator,  who  twists 
"  Chops  and  Tomato  Sauce  "  into  a  de- 
claration of  love.  {Dickens:  Pickwick 
Papers.) 

Buzz.  Empty  the  bottle.  A  corrup- 
tion of  bouse  (to  drink). 

"  In  bousing  a  bout  'twas  his  gift  to  e.xcel. 
And  of  all  jolly  topers  he  bore  oS  the  hell." 

{See  Boozy.) 

Buzz  {A).  A  rumour,  a  whispered 
report. 

"  Yes,  that,  on  every  dream, 
Each  buzz,  each  fancy  .  .  . 
He  may  enguard  his  dotage." 

Shakispeare :  King  Lear,  i.  4. 

Buzzard  {The)  is  meant  for  Dr.  Bur- 
nett, whose  figure  was  lusty. 

"The  noljle  Buzzard  ever  pleased  me  liest." 
Drijden:  Hind  and  Panther,  part  iii.  lli'l. 

Buzzard  called  hawk  by  courtesy.  It 
is  a  euphemism — a  brevet  rank — a  com- 
plimentary title. 

"  Of  small  renown,  'tis  true;  for,  not  to  lie, 
We  call  Qvour  buzzard]  "  hawk"  by  courtesy." 
JJryden :  Hind  and  Panther,  iii.  ll-J-2-3. 

Between  hawk  and  buzzard.  Xot  quite 
a  lady  or  gentleman,  nor  quite  a  ser- 
vant. Applied  to  tutors  in  private 
houses,  bear-leaders,  and  other  grown- 
up persons  who  are  allowed  to  come 
down  to  dessert,  but  not  to  be  guests  at 
the  dinner-table. 

By.  Meaning  against.  "I  know 
nothing  by  myself,  yet  am  I  not  thereby 
justified."     (1  Cor.  iv.  4.) 

By-and-by  now  means  a  little  time 
hence,  but  when  the  Bible  was  trans- 
lated it  meant  instantly.  "  When  perse- 
cution ariseth  .  .  .  by-and-by  he  is 
offended"  (Matt.  xiii.  21);  rendered  in 
Mark  iv.  17  by  the  word  '"  immediately." 
Our  presently  means  in  a  Uttle  time 
hence,  but  in  Fvench. prescntenieni  means 
now,  directly.  Thus  in  France  we  see, 
These  afxirtments  to  be  let  presently,  mean- 
ingwoK' — a  phrase  which  would  iuEnglish 
signify  by-and-by. 

Bygones.  Let  bygones  be  bygones. 
Let  old  grievances  be  forgotten  and 
never  brought  to  mind. 


By-laws 


m 


Cabal 


By-laws.  Local  laws.  From  bi/,  a 
borou^^h.  Properly,  laws  by  a  Town 
Council,  and  bearing  only  on  tlie  borough 
or  company  over  which  it  has  jurisdic- 
tion. 

By-road  {A).  Not  a  main  road;  a 
local  road. 

By-the-by.  E>i  passant,  laterally 
connected  with  the  main  subject.  "  By- 
play "  is  side  or  secondary  play;  "  By- 
lanes  and  streets"  are  those  which 
branch  out  of  the  main  thoroughfare. 
The  first  "  by  "  mea.ns  pas.si  >/(/  froiii  one  to 
another,  as  in  the  phrase  "Day  by  day." 
Thus  "  By-thc-by  "  is  passing  from  the 
main  subject  to  a  hij  or  secondary  one. 

By-the-way  is  an  incidental  remark 
tlirown  in,  and  tending  the  same  way  as 
the  discourse  itself. 

Byron.  7V>e  rolish  Byron.  Adam 
Mickiewicz  (1798-1855). 

The  Russian  Byron.  Alexander  Ser- 
gei vitch  Puschkin  (1799-1837). 

Byrsa.  {Sec  page  191,  col.  1 ,  Buesa.  ) 
Byzantine  Art.  That  symbolical 
system  wliich  was  developed  by  the  early 
Greek  or  Byzantine  artists  out  of  the 
Christian  symbolism.  Its  chief  features 
are  the  circle,  dome,  and  round  arch  ; 
and  its  chief  symbols  the  lily,  cross, 
vesica,  and  nimbus.  St.  So^ihia,  at  Con- 
stantinople, and  St.  Mark,  at  Venice,  are 
excellent  examples. 

Byzantine  Empire  {The).  The 
Eastern  or  Greek  Emjiire  from  395  to 
1453. 

Byzantine  Historians.  Certain 
Greek  historians  who  lived  under  the 
Eastern  empire  between  the  sixth  and 
fifteenth  centuries.  They  "may  be  divided 
into  three  groups: — (1)  Those  whose 
■works  form  a  continuous  history  of  the 
Byzantine  empire,  from  the  fourth  cen- 
tury to  the  conquest  of  Constantinople 
by  the  Turks  ;  (2)  general  chroniclers 
who  wrote  histories  of  the  world  from 
the  oldest  period ;  and  (3)  writers  on 
Roman  antiquities,  statistics,  and  cus- 
toms. 

Byzan'tines  (3  syl.).  Cohis  of  the 
Byzantine  empire,  generally  called  Be- 
sants. 


C.  This  letter  is  tlie  outhne  of  the 
hollow  of  the  hand,  and  is  called  in  He- 
brew caph  (the  hollow  of  the  hand). 

C.  The  French  c,  when  it  is  to  be 
sounded  like  s,  htvs  a  mark  under  it  (f)  ; 


this  mark  is  called  a  cedilla.  (A  diminu- 
tive of  z  ;  called  zcta  in  Greek,  ceila  in 
Spanish.) 

C.  There  is  more  than  one  jjoem 
written  of  which  every  word  begins  with 
C.     For  example : 

(1)  One  composed  by    Huebald    in 

honour  of  Charles  le  Chauve.     It  is  in 

Latin  liexameters  and  runs  to  somewhat 

more  than  a  hundred  lines,  the  last  two 

of  which  are 

"Coiivoiiiet  Claras  claustris  componcrp  rannns 
t'lMiiiiletur  clanis  carmen  cantal)ile  (,'Ai.vis." 

(2)  One  by  Hamconius,  called  "  CVr- 
tamen  catholtcnm  earn  Calriiiistis.'" 

(3)  One  by  Heney  Hardee,  of  100 
lines  in  Latin,  on  "Cats,"  entitled: 
"  Canton  cinn  Cutis  ecrtainen  earniitie 
compositum  carrcnte  calaino  C.  Catitlli 
Caninii.^'     The  first  line  is  — 

"  L'attoruiii  caiiinius  certamiiia  clara  camuihiiio." 
Cats'  canine  caterwaulin-'  ciiutests  cliant. 
See  M  and  P  for  other  examples. 

Qa  Ira  {it  uill  go).  Called  empha- 
tically Lr  Carillon  National oi theFreiich 
Ilevolution  (1790).  It  went  to  tlio  tune 
of  the  Carillon  National,  which  Marie 
Antoinette  was  for  ever  strumming  ou 
her  harpsichord. 

"  frt  Ira  "  was  the  rallying  cry  bor- 
rowed by  the  Federalists  from  Dr.  Frank- 
lin of  America,  who  used  to  say,  in 
reference  to  the  American  revolution, 
'•'Ah!  ah!  ga  ira,  ga  ira!"  ('twill  be 
sure  to  do).  The  refrain  of  the  carillon 
is — 

Ha!  ha  !  It  will  speed, it  will  speed,  it  will  speed  : 
Uesistauce  is  vain,  we  are  sure  to  succeed. 

Caa'ba  (3  syl.).  The  shrine  of  Mecca, 
said  by  the  Arabs  to  be  built  on  the 
exact  spot  of  the  tabernacle  let  down 
from  heaven  at  the  prayer  of  repentant 
Adam.  Adam  had  been  a  wanderer  for 
200  years,  and  here  received  jjardou. 
The  shrine  was  built,  according  to  Arab 
tradition,  by  Ishmael,  assisted  by  his 
father  Abraham,  who  inserted  in  the 
walls  a  black  stone  "presented  to  him 
by  the  angel  Gabriel." 

Cab.  A  contraction  of  cabriolet  {a 
little  caperer),  a  small  carriage  that  scam- 
pers along  like  a  kid. 

Cabal'.  A  junto  or  council  of  in- 
triguers. One  of  the  Ministries  of 
Charles  II.  was  called  a  cabal  (1670), 
because  the  initial  letters  of  its  members 
formed  this  acrostic  :  Clifford,  Ashley, 
Buckingham,  ArHngton,  and  Lauder- 
dale. This  accident  may  have  popular- 
ised the  word,  but,  without  doubt,  we 
borrowed  it  from  the  French  cabale,  "  an 


Cabala 


193 


Cacliet 


intriguing  faction,"  and  Hebrew  cab'ala, 
"  secret  knowledge."  h.  junto  is  merely 
an  assembly;  Spanish,  ;>«/^(7,  a  council. 
(.S«' XoTAEicA ;  Tammany  Ring.) 

"  In  (lark  cabals  and  mighty  juutos  met." 

Thomson. 
"  These  ministei's  were  enipliatically  called  the 
ralial,  and  they  soon  made  the  aiipellation  so  in- 
faiiKuis  that  it  has  never  since  ....  lieen  used 
except  as  a  term  of  reproach." — ilacaulay : 
EiKjlund,  vol.  i.  chap.  ii.  p.  1(>5. 

Cab'ala.  The  oral  law  of  the  Jews 
delivered  down  from  father  to  sou  by 
word  of  mouth.  Some  of  the  rabbins  say 
that  the  angel  Raziel  instructed  Adam 
in  it,  the  angel  Japhiel  instructed  Sliem, 
and  the  angel  Zedekiel  iustructed  Abra- 
ham ;  but  the  more  usual  belief  is  that 
God  instructed  Moses,  and  Moses  his 
brother  Aaron,  and  so  on  from  age  to 
age^ 

N.B. — The  premises  held  out  by  the 
cabala  are :  the  abolition  of  sin  and 
sickness,  abundant  jirovision  of  all 
tilings  needful  for  our  well-being  during 
life,  familiar  intercourse  with  deity  and 
angels,  the  gilt  of  languages  and  jjro- 
phecy,  the  power  of  transmuting  metals, 
and  also  of  working  miracles. 

Cab'alist.  A  Jewish  doctor  who 
professed  the  study  of  the  Cabala,  a 
mysterious  science  said  to  have  been 
delivered  to  the  Jews  bj^  revelation, 
and  transmitted  by  oral  tradition.  This 
science  consisted  mainly  in  understand- 
ing the  combiuation  of  certain  letters, 
words,  and  numbers,  said  to  be  sig- 
nificant. 

Cabalistic.  Mystic  word- juggling. 
{See  Cabalist.) 

Caballe'ro.  A  Spanish  dance,  grave 
and  stately  ;  so  called  from  the  ballad- 
music  to  which  it  was  danced.  The 
ballad  begins — 

"  Ejta  noche  le  mataron  al  caliallero." 

Cabbage.  It  is  said  that  no  sort  of 
food  causes  so  much  thirst  as  cabbage, 
especially  that  called  colewort.  Paus- 
anias  tells  us  it  first  sprang  from  the 
sweat  of  Jupiter,  some  drops  of  which 
fell  on  the  earth.  CcbHus,  Ehodiginus, 
Ovid,  Suidas,  and  others  repeat  the 
same  fable. 

'•Some  drops  of  sweat  happening  to  light  on 
the  earth  produced  what  mortals  call  caliijage." 
—Rabelais  :  Pantaijritcl,  book  iv.  iPrologiie). 

Cabbage  (?>;).  To  filch.  Sometimes 
a  tailor  is  called  "cabbage,"  from  his 
pilfering  cloth  given  him  to  make  up. 
Thus  in  Motteux's  Rabelais,  iv.  o2,  we 
read  of  "Poor  Cabbage's  hair."  (Old 
French,    cabas,    theft,    verb    cabasser; 


Dutch,     kabassen  ;     Swedish,    grabba ; 
Danish,  griber,  our  grab.) 

"  Your  tailor,  instead  of  shreds,  cabbages  whole 
yards  of  cloth."— Arbathnofs  Juhii  Bull. 

Cabbage  is  also  a  common  schoolboy 
term  for  a  literary  crib,  or  other  petty 
theft. 

Cabinet  Ministers.  The  chief  offi- 
cers of  state  in  whom  the  administrative 
government  is  vested.  It  contains  the 
First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  {t/<e  Freniier), 
the  Lord  High  Chancellor,  Lord  Pre- 
sident of  the  Council,  Lord  Privy  Seal, 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  six  Secre- 
taries of  State,  the  First  Lord  of  the 
Admiralty,  Lord  Lieutenant  and  Lord 
Chancellor  of  Ireland,  President  of  the 
Board  of  Trade,  Chancellor  of  the 
Duchy  of  Lancaster,  the  President  of 
the  Board  of  Agriculture.  The  five 
Secretaries  of  State  are  those  of  the 
Home  Department,  Foreign  Aifairs, 
Colonies,  War,  India,  and  Cliief-Secre- 
tary  to  the  Lord-Lieuteuaut  of  Ireland. 
Sometimes  other  members  of  the 
Government  are  included,  and  some- 
times one  or  two  of  the  above  left  out 
of  the  Cabinet.  These  Ministers  are 
privileged  to  consult  the  Sovereign  in  the 
private  cabinet  of  the  palace. 

Cabi  ri.  Mj-stic  divinities  worshijiped 
in  ancieut  Egypt,  Phoenicia,  Asia  Miuor, 
and  Greece.  They  were  inferior  to 
the  supreme  gods.  (Phoenician,  kabir, 
powerful. ) 

Cable's  Length.     100  fathoms. 

V  Some  think  to  avoid  a  difficulty  by 
reudering  Matthew  xix.  24  "It  is  easier 
for  a  cable  to  go  through  the  ej'e  of  a 
needle  .  .  .  .",  but  the  word  is  KdiirjXov, 
and  the  whole  force  of  the  passage  rests 
on  the  "impossibility  "  of  the  thiug,  as 
it  is  distinctly  stated  in  Mark  x.  2 1, 
"  How  hard  is  it  for  them  that  irast  in 
[their]  riches,  inl  tocs  xpw"o'"'.  .  •"  It  is 
impossible  by  the  virtue  of  money  or 
by  bribes  to  enter  the  kingdom  of 
heaven.     (.SVf  i^age  205,  col.  1,  Camel.) 

Cabochon  {En).  Uncut,  but  only 
polished ;  applied  to  emeralds,  rubies, 
and  other  precious  stones.  (French, 
cabochon.) 

Cachecope  Bell.  A  bell  rung  at 
funerals,  when  the  pall  was  thrown  over 
the  coffin.  (French,  cache  corps,  cover 
over  the  body.) 

Ca'chet  (pron.  cah'shag).  Lettres  dc 
eaehet  (letters  sealed).  Under  the  old 
French  regime,  carte-blanche  waiTauts, 
sealed  with  the  king's  seal,  might  be 
obtained  for  a  consideration,  and  the 


Cacodsemon 


196 


Cadmean 


person  who  held  them  might  fill  in  anj' 
name.  Sometimes  the  warrant  was  to 
set  a  prisoner  at  large,  but  it  was  more 
frequently  for  detention  in  the  Bastille. 
During  the  administration  of  Cardinal 
Fleury  80,OUO  of  these  cachets  were 
issued,  the  larger  number  being  against 
the  Jan'senists.  In  the  reigns  of  Louis 
XV.  and  XVI.  fifty-nine  were  obtained 
against  the  one  family  of  Mirabeau. 
This  scandal  was  abolished  January 
loth,  1790. 

Cac'odae'mon.  An  evil  spii-it.  As- 
trologers give  this  name  to  the  Twelfth 
House  of  Heaven,  from  which  only  evil 
prognostics  proceed.  (Greek,  IcuIcod 
daimon.) 

"  Hie  thee  to  hell  for  shame,  and  leave  the  woilii, 
Thou  eacodemon." 

t^hakespeare:  Richard  III.,  i.  .•?. 

Cacoe'thes  (Greek).    A  "  bad  habit." 
CacocUics    loquouli.       A    passion    for 
making  speeches  or  for  talking. 

C'ucoethcs  scribeiidi.  The  love  of  rush- 
ing into  print ;  a  mania  for  authorship. 

Ca'cus.  A  famous  robber,  repre- 
sented as  three-headed,  and  vomiting 
flames.  He  lived  in  Italy,  and  was 
strangled  by  Hercules.  Saucho  Tanza 
says  of  the  Lord  Einaldo  and  his  friends, 
"  They  are  greater  thieves  than  Cacus." 
{Don  Quixote.) 

Cad.  A  low,  vulgar  fellow ;  an 
omnibus  conductor.  Either  from  cadet, 
or  a  contraction  of  cadr/cr  (a  i^ackman) . 
The  etymology  of  cad,  (i  cudoido,  is  only 
a  pun .  N.  B .  —The  Scotch  cndie  or  ca icdic 
(a  little  servant,  or  eiTand-boy,  or  carrier 
of  a  sedan-chair),  without  the  dimi- 
nutive, offers  a  plausible  suggestion. 

"All  Edinlmrgh  men  .and  boys  know  that 
when  sedan-chairs  were  discontinued,  the  old 
cadics  sank  into  ruinous  povert.v,  and  became 
synonymous  with  roughs.  Tlie  word  was  brought 
to  London  by  James  Hannay,  who  ^frenuently 
used  it."— J/.  I'rinijle. 

Caddice  or  Caddis.  Worsted  galloon, 
crewel.  (Welsh,  rr/ (f as,  brocade;  cadach 
is  a  kerchief;  Irish,  cadaii.) 

'■  He  hath  ribands  of  all  the  colours  i'  the  rain- 
bow ;  .  .  .  caddisses,  canihrics,  hiwns."— .S'Ante- 
spcare :  ]y inter's  Tale,i\.3. 

Caddicc-garier.  A  servant,  a  man  of 
mean  rank.  When  garters-  were  worn 
in  sight,  the  gentry  used  very  expensive 
ones,  but  the  baser  sort  wore  worsted 
galloon  ones.  Prince  Henry  calls  Poins 
a  "  caddice -garter."     (1  Henry  IV.,  ii. 

4.) 

"  Dost  hear, 
My  honest  caddis-garter  ?" 
Glapthorne ;  Wit  in  a  Constable,  1639. 


Caddy.  A  ghost,  a  bugbear.  A 
caddis  is  a  grub,  a  bait  for  anglers- 

"  Poor  -Mislcr  Leviathan  Addy  I 

Lo  '  his  u'landcnr  hu  latcl\  a  sun, 
Is  siiikim-'  iSMd  fall  I  I  to  a  caddy." 
Pctir  I'imlar:  Umit  Cnj  ami  Little  Muol,  epistle  I. 

Cade.     Jitck    Cade  Icfjishtt'ion.     Pres- 
sure from  without.     The  allusion  is  to 
the  insurrection  of  Jack  Cade,  an  Irish- 
man,   who   headed  about  20,000  armed 
men,  chiefly  of  Kent,  "to  in'ocure  re- 
dress of  grievances  "  (1450). 
"  You  that  love  the  commons,  follow  me  ; 
Now  show  yourselves  ii.cu  ;  'tis  for  liberty. 
We  will  not  leave  one  lord,  oiir>  L-eiitienian : 
Spare  none  hut  such  as  gu  in  rliuiied  shoon." 
S)i„l;,si>t,iri-:  !■  Ilriinj  17.,  iv.  1'. 

Cader  Idris  or  Art]iiir''n  Sent.  If 
any  man  passes  tlie  night  sitting  on  this 
"chair,"  he  will  be  either  a  poet  or  a 
madman. 

Cadcs'sia  {Battle  of)  gave  the  Arabs 
the  monarchy  of  Persia,     (a.d.  G36.) 

Cadet.  Younger  branches  of  noble 
families  are  called  cadets,  because  their 
armorial  shields  are  marked  with  a 
difference  called  a  cadency. 

Cadet  is  a  student  at  the  Eoj'al  Mili- 
tary Academy  at  Woolwich,  the  Royal 
Military  College  at  Sandhurst,  or  in  one 
of  her  Majesty's  training  ships,  the 
E.reellent  and  the  Britannia.  From 
these  places  they  are  sent  (after  passing 
certuin  examinations)  into  the  army  as 
ensigns  or  second  lieutenants,  and  into 
the  navy  as  midshipmen.  (French, 
cadet,  junior  member  of  a  family.) 

Cadger.  One  who  carries  butter, 
eggs,  and  jioultry  to  market  ;  a  packman 
or  huckster.  f'rom  cadi/c  (to  carry). 
Hence  the  frame  on  which  hawks  were 
carried  was  called  "a  cadge,"  and  the 
man  who  carried  it,  a  "  cadger."  Amau 
of  low  degree. 

"Every  cadger  thinks  himself  as  good  as  an 
e:ir\:'—SlclJoiuild:  Malcolm,  iKivt  ix.  chap.  xlv.  p. 
ls:i. 

Ca'di,  ajnong_  the  Turks,  Arabs,  etc., 
is  a  town  magistrate  or  infeiior  judge. 
"  Cadi  Lesker  "  is  a  suijerior  cadi.  The 
Spanish  Alcaydii  is  the  Moorish  al  cadi, 
(Arabic,  t/iejadi/c.) 

Cadme'an  Letters  (T^ie).  The  sim- 
ple Greek  letters  introduced  by  Cadmus 
from  Phoenicia.     {Greek  uii/th.) 

Cadme'an  Victory  (Greek,  Kadineia 
nil.e ;  Latin,  Cadinra  Victoria).  A  vic- 
tory purchased  with  great  loss.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  anned  men  who  sprang 
out  of  the  ground  from  the  teeth  of  the 
dragon  sown  by  Cadmus.  These  men 
fell  foul  of  eaclt  other,  and  only  five  of 
them  escaped  death. 


Cadmeans 


197 


Caftan 


Cadmeans.  The  people  of  Carthage 
are  called  the  Gois  Vadniea,  and  so  are 
tlie  Thebaus. 

Cadmus  having  slaiu  the  dragon 
which  guarded  the  fountain  of  Dirce,  in 
Boeotia,  sowed  the  teeth  of  the  monster, 
when  a  number  of  armed  men  sprang  up 
and  surrounded  Cadmus  with  intent  to 
kill  him.  By  the  counsel  of  Minerva,  he 
tbrew  a  precious  stone  among  the  armed 
men,  who,  striving  for  it,  killed  one 
another.  The  foundation  of  the  fable  is 
this  :  Cadmus  having  slain  a  famous  free- 
booter that  infested  Boeotia,  his  banditti 
set  upon  him  to  revenge  their  captain's 
death ;  but  Cadmus  sent  a  bribe,  for 
which  they  quarrelled  and  slew  each 
other. 

Cadog'an  (Ca-dug'-an).  A  club  of 
hair  worn  by  j'oung  French  ladies ;  so 
called  from  the  joortrait  of  the  first  Earl 
of  Cadog'an,  a  piiut  at  one  time  very 
popular  in  France.  The  fashion  was 
introduced  at  the  court  of  Montbeliard 
b}'  tlie  Duchesse  de  Bourbon. 

Cadu'ceus  (4  syl.).  A  white  wand 
carried  by  Roman  officers  when  they 
went  to  treat  for  peace.  The  Egyjjtians 
adorned  the  rod  with  a  male  and  female 
serpent  twisted  about  it,  and  kissing  each 
other.  From  this  use  of  the  rod,  it  be- 
came the  sj^mbol  of  eloquence  and  also 
of  office.  In  mytholog}',  a  caduceus 
with  wings  is  placed  in  the  hands  of 
Mercury,  the  herald  of  the  gods  ;  and  the 
poets  feign  that  he  could  therewith  give 
sleep  to  whomsoever  he  chose ;  where- 
fore Milton  styles  it  "  his  opiate  rod  " 
in  Paradise  Loaf,  xi.  133. 

"  Si)  with  bis  clread  c-;uluceus  Hermes  led 
From  tlie  dark  rogiciiis  of  tlie  imin-isuued  dead  ; 
Or  drove  in  silent  slioals  the  lingering  train 
To  Night's  lUiU  shore  and  Pluto's  dreary  reign." 
Diiiirin  :  /.ores  of  the  Plants,  ii.  •.■»!. 

Cadur'ci.  The  people  of  Aquita'nia. 
Cahors  is  the  modern  capital. 

Csedmon.  Cowherd  of  "V\Tiitby,  the 
greatest  poet  of  the  Anglo-Saxons.  In 
his  wonderful  romance  we  find  the  bold 
prototype  of  Milton's  raradisc  Lost.  The 
irortions  relating  to  the  fall  of  the  angels 
are  most  striking.  The  hero  encounters, 
defeats,  and  finally  slays  Grendel,  an 
evil  being  of  supematurtil  powers. 

Caerite  Franchise  ( The) .  The  fran- 
chise of  a  Roman  subject  in  a  prefecture. 
These  subjects  had  the  right  of  self- 
government,  and  were  registered  by  the 
Roman  censor  as  tax-payers  ;  but  they 
enjoyed  none  of  the  ]Drivileges  of  a 
Roman    citizen.      Caere    was    the    first 


community  placed  in  this  dependent  posi- 
tion, whence  the  term  Cccritc  franchise. 

Ca'erleon,  on  the  Usk,  in  Wales. 
The  habitual  residence  of  King  Arthur, 
where  he  lived  in  splendid  state,  sur- 
rounded by  hundreds  of  knights,  twelve 
of  whom  he  selected  as  Knights  of  the 
Round  Table. 

Caesar  was  made  by  Hadrian  a  title, 
conferred  on  the  heir  presumptive  to  the 
throne  (a.d.  13G).  Diocletian  conferred 
the  title  on  the  two  viceroys,  calling  the 
two  c\nY>evors  Augustus  (sacred  majesty). 
The  German  Emperor  still  assiunes  the 
title  of  kaiser  (q.v.). 

"Thou  art  an  emperor,  CiBsar,  keisar,  and  Phee- 

Z3.r :'— Shakesiicare :  Merry  Wives  of  \Vindsor,\.'6. 
"Xo  liendiug  knees  shall  call  tliee  Caesar  now." 
SiHttespc.are :  3  Ilcnry  VI.,  iii.  1. 

Ca3sar,  as  a  title,  was  pretty  nearly 
equivalent  to  our  Friuce  of  JJ'alcs  and 
the  French  dauphin. 

C(csar\s  irifr  must  he  ahorc  suspicion. 
The  name  of  Pomiae'ia  having  been 
mixed  up  with  an  accusation  against  P. 
Clodius,  Cffisar  divorced  her ;  not  be- 
cause he  believed  her  guilty,  but  because 
the  wife  of  Ca?sar  must  not  even  be  sus- 
pected of  crime.  {Suetonius :  Julius 
Ccesar,  74.) 

C'ccsar.     (Sec  page  76,  2,  Aut  d;sAE.) 

Julius  C'ccsar^s  sword.  Crocea  Mors 
{i/elloiv  death).     [See  page  76,  2,  Swoed.) 

Julius  Ccesar  won  320  triumphs. 

Caesarian  Operation  or  Cesa'rcan 
Operation.  The  extraction  of  a  child 
from  the  womb  by  cutting  the  abdomen 
(Latin,  eceso^  cut  from  the  womb).  Jtilius 
CiBsar  is  said  to  have  been  thus  brought 
into  the  world. 

Cae'sarism.  The  absolute  rule  of 
man  over  man,  with  the  recognition  of 
no  law  divine  or  human  beyond  that  of 
the  ruler's  will.     {Sec  Chauvinism.) 

Cseteris  paribus  (Latin).  Other 
things  being  equal ;  presuming  all  other 
conditions  to  be  equal. 

Caf  (Mount).  In  Mohammedan  my- 
thology is  that  huge  mountain  in  the 
middle  of  which  the  earth  is  sunk,  as  a 
night  light  is  placed  in  a  cup.  Its  found- 
ation is  the  emerald  Sakhrat,  the  refiec- 
tion  of  which  gives  the  azure  hue  to  the 
sky. 

Caftan.  A  garment  worn  in  Turkey 
and  other  Eastern  countries.  It  is  a 
sort  of  under-tunic  or  vest  tied  by  a 
girdle  at  the  waist. 

"Picturesque  merchants  and  their  customers, 
no  longer  in  the  liig  trousers  of  Egypt,  hut  [in] 
the  long  caftans  and  abas  of  Syria."—!}.  Taylor  : 
Lands  of  the  Saracen,  chap.  ix.  p.  132. 


Cag  Mag 


198 


Calamity 


Cag  Mag.  Offal,  bad  meat ;  also  a 
tough  old  goose ;  food  which  noue  can 
relish.     (Gaelic  aud  Welsh,  cag  mngu.) 

Cage.  Tu  U'/iittt!/'  or  suig  in  the  cage. 
The  cage  is  a  jail,  aud  to  whistle  in  a 
cage  is  to  turn  Queen's  evidence,  or 
peach  against  a  comrade. 

Caglios'tro.  Contc  ilc  CagVwstro,  or 
Giuseppe  Balsamo  of  Palermo,  a  char- 
latan who  offered  everlasting  youth  to 
all  who  would  jiay  liim  for  his  secret 
(1743-1795). 

Cagots.  A  sort  of  gipsy  race  in 
Gas'couy  and  Bearue,  supposed  to  be  des- 
cendants of  the  Visigoths,  and  shunned 
as  something  loathsome.     {See  Caqueux, 

COLIIBEETS.) 

"Crisoti  11(111  fuenint  iimnaclii,  anarlmi-iur,  aut 
IC'pi'osi-,  .  .  .  sell  i,'t'n\isqii'ii|il:iiii  hoiiiiiiiiiii  i-i'lfiis 
oiliiisuiii.  V;i.scoiiiliiis  Vaunts,  iKiiinullis  (■nputi, 
Burdet'alciitibas  Gnlu.ti,  Vascis  et  Xa\ariis  Aiioti, 
ilicuiitur.''— 7^a(t((we.'  G lossariam Mauuale ,  vol.  ii. 

pp.  ;;3, 24. 

Cahors.  Usuriers  de  Ca/iors.  In  the 
thirteenth  centviry  there  was  a  colony  of 
Jewish  money-lenders  settled  at  Cahors, 
which  was  to  France  what  Lombard 
Street  was  to  London. 

Cai'aphas.  The  country-house  of 
Caiaphas,  in  which  Judas  concluded  his 
bargain  to  betray  his  Master,  stood  on 
"  The  Hill  of  Evil  Counsel." 

Cain  -  coloured  Beard.  Yellow, 
symbolic  of  treason.  In  the  ancient 
tapestries  Cain  and  Judas  are  repre- 
sented with  yellow  beards.  (See  Yel- 
low.) 

"  He  hath  hut  a  little  wee  face,  with  a  little 
yellow  heard,  a  Caiii-ciiloureil  heard."  — .S'AaVc- 
speare:  Merry  Wires  uf  Windsor,  i.  4. 

Cain'ites  (2  syl.).  Disciples  of  Cain, 
a  pseudo- Gnostic  sect  of  the  second 
century.  They  renounced  -  the  New 
Testament,  and  received  instead  Tlic 
Gospel  of  JtidaH,  which  justified  the  false 
disciple  and  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus. 
This  sect  maintained  that  heaven  aud 
earth  were  created  by  the  evil  principle, 
and  that  Cain  with  his  descendants  were 
the  persecuted  party. 

Cairds  or  Joclicgx.  Gipsy  tribes. 
Halliwell  tells  us  "  Caird  "  in  North- 
umberland =  tinker,  and  gipsies  are  great 
menders  of  pots  and  pans.  (Irish,  crard, 
a  tinker  ;  Welsh,  cerdd,  art  or  craft.) 
"  Donald  Caird's  come  apain."    ropular  ffimg. 

Caius  (2>r.).     A  French  physician  in 

Shakespeare's  Merry  Wires  of  Windsor. 

"  The  clipped  English  ol  Dr.  Ca,ms,."—itacanlaii . 

Cains  College  (Cambridge).  Elevated 
by  Dr.  John  Key  (^Cains'),  of  Norwich, 


into  a  college,  being  previously  only  a 
hall  called  Gouville.  Called  Keys.  (1557.) 

Cake.  A  fool,  a  poor  thing.  {Cf. 
Half-Baked.) 

Cake.  To  tal-e  the  cake.  To  carry  off 
the  prize.  The  reference  is  to  the  prize- 
cake  to  the  person  wlio  succeeded  best 
in  a  given  competition.  In  Kotcs  and 
Queries  (Feb.  '27th,  1892,  p.  17G)  a  cor- 
respondent of  New  York  tells  us  of  a 
"cake  walk  "  by  the  Southern  negroes. 
It  consists  of  walking  round  the  prize 
cake  in  pairs,  and  umpires  decide  which 
pair  walk  the  most  gi-acef  ully.  In  ancient 
Greece  a  cake  was  the  award  of  the  tof)er 
who  held  out  the  longest. 

In  Ireland  the  best  dancer  in  a  danc- 
ing comj)etition  was  rewarded,  at  one 
time,  by  a  cake. 

"  ,\  churn-dish  stack  into  the  earth  siipporled 
on  its  Mat  end  a  cake,  which  was  to  liccoiiic  the 
prize  of  the  hcst  dancer.  ...  At  leuftLi  the  ccnii- 
jietitors  yielded  their  claims  toayonni-'  man  .  .  . 
who,  takiii«  the  cake,  placed  it  (,'allanlly  in  the 
lap  of  a  pretty  girl  to  whom  .  .  .  he  was  aliont  to 
he  married."— Biirt  eft  und  Coyne:  ticeiifry  and 
Antiquities  of  Ireland,  vol.  ii.  p.  64. 

YoH  cannot  eat  your  cake  and  have  it 
too.  You  cannot  spend  your  money 
and  yet  keep  it.  You  cannot  serve  God 
and  Mammon. 

Your  cake  [or  my  cake]  is  dough.  All 
my  swans  are  turned  to  geese.  Oecisa 
est  res  tua  [or  mca'\.  Mon  affaire  est 
manquee  ;  my  project  has  failed. 

Cake... Dough.  I u-ish  my  cake  u-ere 
dough  again.  I  Avish  I  had  never 
married.  Bellenden  Ker  says  the  pro- 
verb is  a  corruption  of  Ei  ic''hissche  my 
keke  xcas  dlioiv  en  geen.  Avhicli  he  says 
is  tantamount  to  "  Something  whispers 
within  me — repentance  ;  would  that  my 
marriage  were  set  aside." 

Cakes.  Land  of  Cakes.  Scotland, 
famous  for  its  oatmeal  cakes. 

"  Land  o'  cakes  and  hritlier  Scots."    Sunis. 

Cal'abash.  A  drinking  cup  or  water- 
holder  ;  so  called  from  the  calabash  nut 
of  which  it  is  made. 

Calamanco  Cat  (A).  A  tortoise- 
shell  cat.  Calamanco  is  a  glossy  woollen 
fabric,  sometimes  striped  or  variegated. 
It  is  the  Spanish  wortl  Calaindco. 

Calam'ity.  The  beating  down  of 
standing  corn  by  wind  or  storm.  The 
word  is  derived  from  the  Latin  calamus 
(a  stalk  of  corn).  Hence,  Cicero  calls  a 
storm  Calamito'sa  tcmpestas  (a  corn- 
levelling  temjiest). 

"Another  ill  accident  is  drought,  and  the  spoil- 
ing of  the  corn  ;  inasmuch  as  the  word 'calamity' 
was  first  derived  from  calaimis  (stalk),  when  the 
curn  C011I4  not  get  out  of  (he  ei^r."- .Baco?}, 


Calandrino 


199 


Calendar 


Calandrino.  A  typical  simpleton 
freqiieutly  introduced  in  Boccaccio's 
JJcciuiH'rvi! ;  expressly  made  to  be  be- 
fooled and  played  upon. 

Calatra'va  (Sed  Cross  Knights  of). 
Instituted  at  Calatra'va,  in  Spain,  by 
Sancho  III.  of  Castile  in  1158;  their 
badge  is  a  red  cross  cut  out  in  the  form 
of  lilies,  on  the  left  breast  of  a  white 
mantle. 

Calauri'a.  Pro  Delo  Galaurla  (Ovid : 
Mctainorp/ioscs,  vii.  384).  Calauria  was 
an  island  in  the  Sinus  Sarouicus  which 
Latona  gave  to  Neptune  in  exchange  for 
Delos.     A  quid  pro  quo. 

Calceola'ria.  Little-shoe  flowers  ; 
so  called  from  their  resemblance  to  faiiy 
slippers.     (Latin,  cal'ccoUis.) 

Calceos  mutavit.  He  has  changed 
his  shoes,  that  is,  has  become  a  senator. 
Roman  senators  were  distinguished  by 
their  shoes,  which  were  sandalled  across 
the  instep  and  up  the  ankles. 

Calculate  is  from  the  Latin  calculi 
(pebbles),  used  by  the  Romans  for  coun- 
ters. In  the  ab'acus,  the  round  balls 
were  called  cal'culi,  and  it  was  by  this 
instrument  the  Roman  boys  were  taught 
to  count  and  calculate.  The  Greeks 
voted  by  pebbles  dropped  into  an  urn — 
a  method  adopted  both  in  ancient  Egypt 
and  Sj'ria ;  counting  these  pebbles  was 
"calculating"  the  number  of  voters. 
{Sir  page  2,  col.  1,  Abacus.) 

/  calculate.  A  peculiarity  of  expres- 
sion common  in  the  western  states  of 
North  America.  In  the  southern  states 
the  phrase  is  "  I  reckon,"  in  the  middle 
states  "I  expect,"  and  in  New  England 
' '  I  guess. ' '  All  were  imported  from  the 
mother  country  by  early  settlers. 

"  Vdur  auiit  sets  two  tables,  I  calculate  ;  don't 
she  ?  "—Susan  Warner:  Qiiccchy  (vol.  i.  chap.  xi.\.) 

Calculators  (I'hc).  Alfragan,  the 
Arabian  astronomer.     Died  820. 

Jedediah  Buxton,  of  Elmeton,  in 
Derl)yshire.     (1705-1775.) 

George  Bidder  and  Zerah  Colburn  (an 
American),  who  exhibited  pubhcly. 

Inaudi  exhibited  "  his  astounding 
powers  of  calculatin'  "  at  Paris  in  1880, 
his  additions  and  subtractions  were  from 
left  to  right. 

"  Buxton,  liein?  asked  '  How  many  cubical 
eighths-of-an-inch  there  are  in  a  Ixidy  whose  three 
sides  are  2.3,1-15, 78S  yards,  5,642,73a  yards,  and  54,siii5 
yards  ?'  replied  correctly  without  setting  down  a 
figure." 

"  Colburn,  being  asked  the  square  root  of  106,929 
and  the  cube  root  268,336,125,  replied  before  the 
audience  had  set  the  figures  down."— Prici;;  I'ar- 
(lllel  UistovT/,  vol.  ii.  p.  570. 


Cale.     [See  Kale.] 

Caleb.  The  enchantress  who  carried 
off  St.  George  in  infancy. 

Caleb,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Absalom 
and  Achitophel,  is  meant  for  Lord  Grey 
of  Wark  ( North tmiberlaud),  one  of  the 
adherents  of  the  Duke  of  Monmoutli. 
"And,  theref(jre,  in  the  name  <if  dulness,  lie 
The  well-hung  Balaam  [Karl  .of  Huntingdon] 
and  old  Caleli  free."  Lilies  512-13. 

Caleb  Quo'tem.  A  parish  clerk  or 
jack-of-all-trades,  in  Colman's  play 
called  T/ie  Review,  or  TFar/s  of  Jdndsor, 
which  first  appeared  in  1808.  Colmau 
borrowed  the  character  from  a  farce  by 
Henry  Lee  (1798)  entitled  Throw  Fhysio 
to  the  Bogs. 

"  I  resolved,  like  Caleb  Quoteui,  to  have  a  placo 
at  the  review." — Wasltingtuii,  li oiiuj. 

Caledon.  Scotland.   (Sec  next  article. ) 
"  N<it  thus,  in  ancient  days  of  Caledon, 
Was  thy  voice  mute  amid  the  festal  crowd." 
■Sir  IK.  Scott. 

Caledo'nia.  Scotland.  A  corruption 
of  Celyddon,  a  Celtic  word  meaning  "a 
dweller  in  woods  and  forests."  The 
word  Celt  is  itself  a  contraction  of  the 
same  word  (Celyd),  and  means  the  same 
thing. 

"  Sees  Caledonia  in  romantic  view." 

Thomson. 
"  O  Caledonia,  stern  and  wild, 
Meet  nurse  for  a  poetic  child." 
Sir  W.  Scott :  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel. 

Calembour  (French).  A  pun,  a  jest. 
From  the  "Jester  of  Kahlenberg,"  whose 
name  was  Wigand  von  Thebeu  ;  a  cha- 
racter introduced  in  Tgll  Eiileuspiegel,  a 
German  tale.  Eulenspiegel  (a  fool  or 
jester)  means  Owl's  looking-glass,  and 
may  probably  have  suggested  the  title 
of  the  periodical  called  the  Owl,  the 
witty  but  satirical  "looking-glass"  of 
the  passing  follies  of  the  day.  The  jester 
of  Calembourg  visited  Paris  in  the  reign 
of  Louis  XV.,  and  soon  became  noted 
for  his  blunders  and  puns. 

Calendar. 

TJie  Julian  Calendar,  introduced  B.C. 
46.  It  fixed  the  ordinary  year  to  365 
days,  with  an  extra  day  every  fourth 
year  (leap  year).  This  is  called  "  The 
Old  Style." 

TJie  Gregorian  Year.  A  modification 
of  the  Julian  Calendar,  introduced  in  1582 
by  Pope  Gregory  XIII.,  and  adopted  in 
Great  Britain  in  1752.  This  is  called 
"  the  New  Style." 

21ie  Mohammedan  Calendar,  used  in 
Mohammedan  countries,  dates  from  July 
16th,  622,  the  day  of  the  Hegira.  It 
consists  of  12  lunar  mouths  (29  days,  12 
hours,  44  minutes).     A  cycle  is  30  years. 

J'he  S,evohU\onary   Calendar  was  the 


Calendar 


200 


Caligula 


work  of  Fabre  d'Eglantine  and  Mens. 
Romme. 

Calendar.  A  J\eu-gate  Calendar  or 
"Malefactors'  Bloody  Register,"  con- 
taiuiug  the  biography,  coufessious,  dyiug 
speeches,  etc.,  of  notorious  criminals. 
Began  in  1700. 

Calendars  {The  Three)  were  three 
royal  ijrinces,  disguised  as  begging 
dervishes,  the  subjects  of  three  tales  in 
the  Arabian  Nujhts. 

Calends.  The  first  of  every  month 
was  so  called  by  the  Romans.  Varro 
says  the  term  originated  in  the  practice 
of  calling  together  or  assembling  the 
peojjle  on  the  first  day  of  the  month, 
when  the  pontifex  informed  them  of  the 
time  of  the  new  moon,  the  day  of  the 
nones,  with  the  festivals  and  sacred 
days  to  be  observed.  The  custom  con- 
tinued till  A.u.c.  450,  when  the  fasti  or 
calendar  was  j)osted  in  public  places. 
(Jicc  Greek  Calends.) 

Cal'epin  {A).  A  dictionary.  (Italian, 
calepino.)    Ambrosio  Calepino,  of  Cale- 
pio,  in  Italy,  was  the  author  of  a  dic- 
tionary, so  that  "  my  Caleijin,"  hke  my 
Euclid,     my     Johnson,     according    to 
Cocker,    etc.,     have    become    common 
nouns  from  proper  names.     Generally 
called  Cal'epin,  but  the  subjoined  quota- 
tion throws  the  accent  on  the  le. 
"  whom  di)  you  prefer 
Foi'  tbe  best  liii.s'uist  ?    And  I  spelily 
Said  that  I  thunyht  Calepine's  Dictionary." 
Dr.  Donne:  Fourth  Hatirc, 

Caleys  (A  Stock  Exchange  term). 
Caledonian  Railway  Ordinary  Stock. 
A  contraction  of  Cale-donians.  {See 
Stock  Exchange  Slang.) 

Calf-love.  Youthful  fancy  as  opposed 
to  lasting  attachment. 

"1  thought  it  was  a  cliildisU  ))esotment  you 
had  for  the  man— a  sort  of  calf-love.  .  .  ."—Shoda 
Bronyhton. 

Calf-skin.  Fools  and  jesters  used 
to  wear  a  calf-skin  coat  buttoned  down 
the  back.  In  allusion  to  this  custom, 
Faulconbridge  says  insolently  to  the 
Archduke  of  Austria,  who  had  acted 
most  basely  to  Richard  Coeur-de-Lion — 
"  Thou  wear  a  lion's  hide  !  Doff  it,  for  shame, 
And  hang  a  calf  skin  on  those  recreant  limbs." 
tShakcspeare:  King  John,  in.  I, 

Caliban.  Rude,  uncouth,  unknowTi ; 
as  a  Caliban  style,  a  Caliban  language. 
The  allusion  is  to  Shakespeare's  Caliban 
{The  2'einpcst),  in  wliich  character  Lord 
Falkland,  etc.,  said  that  Shakespeare 
had  not  only  invented  a  new  creation, 
but  also  a  neiv  language. 

"Satan  had  not  the  privilege,  as  Caliban,  to  use 
new  phrases,  and  diction  unknown."— Z>r.Bent(eJ/. 


Coleridge  says,  "In  bini  [Caliban',  as  in  some 
brute  animals,  this  advance  to  the  intellectual 
faculties,  without  the  moral  sense,  is  marked  hy 
the  appearance  of  \ice." 

(Caliban  is  the  "missing  link"  between  brute 
animals  and  nianj 

Calibre  [kal'i-her'].  A  mind  of  no 
calibre :  of  no  capacity.  A  mind  of 
great  calibre  :  of  large  capacity.  Calibre 
is  the  bore  of  a  gun,  and,  figuratively, 
the  bore  or  compass  of  one's  intelligence. 

"  The  enemy  had  generally  new  arms  ...  of 
uniform  caliber."— G/rtH(;  Mcinoirs,  vol.  i.  chap, 
xx.vix.  p.  07i. 

"  We  measure  men's  calibre  by  the  liroadest 
circle  of  achievements."  —  Chapin:  Lessons  of 
faith,  p.  10. 

Caliburn.  Same  as  Excalibar,  King 
Arthur's  well-known  sword.  {See 
Swokd.) 

"Onward  Arthur  paced,  with  hand 
Ou  Caliburn's  resistless  brand." 

iicott:  JSridat  o/  Triermain. 

Cal'ioo.  So  called  from  Cali'cut,  in 
Malabar,  once  the  chief  port  and  em- 
porimn  of  Hindustan. 

Cal'idore  (3  syl.).  Sir  Calidore  is 
the  type  of  courtesg,  and  hero  of  the 
sixth  book  of  Spenser's  Faerie  Qucene. 
He  is  described  as  the  most  courteous  of 
all  knights,  and  is  entitled  the  "  all- 
beloved."  The  model  of  the  poet  was 
Sir  Philip  Sidney.  His  adventure  is 
against  the  Blatant  Beast,  whom  he 
muzzles,  chains,  and  drags  to  Faerie 
Land. 

"Sir  Gawain  was  the  Calidore  of  the  Round 

Table."— A'u«(/ifi/. 

Calig'orant.  An  Egyptian  giant  and 
cannibal  who  used  to  entrap  strangers 
with  a  hidden  net.  This  net  was  made 
by  Vulcan  to  catch  Mars  and  Venus ; 
Mercury  stole  it  for  the  purpose  of 
catching  Chloris,  and  left  it  in  the 
temple  of  Auu'bis ;  Calig'orant  stole  it 
thence.  At  length  Astoljiho  blew  hia 
magic  horn,  and  the  giant  ran  affrighted 
into  his  own  net,  which  dragged  him  to 
the  ground.  Whereupon  Astolpho 
made  the  giant  his  captive,  and  de- 
spoiled him  of  his  net.  This  is  an 
allegory.  Caligorant  was  a  great  so- 
phist and  heretic  in  the  daj's  of  Ariosto, 
who  used  to  entangle  people  with  his 
talk ;  but  being  converted  by  Astolpho 
to  the  true  faith,  was,  as  it  were,  caught 
in  his  own  net,  and  both  his  sophistry 
and  heresy  were  taken  from  him. 
[Ariosto  :  Orlando  Farioso.) 

Calig'ula.  A  Roman  emperor ;  so 
called  because  he  wore  a  military  sandal 
called  a  callga,  which  had  no  upper 
leather,  and  was  used  only  by  the  com- 
mon soldiers.     (12,  37-41.) 

"'The  word  calicias,  however,'  continued  the 
Baron    .    .    .    'means,   in   its   primitive    sense, 


Caligula's  Horse 


201 


Callabre 


Baudals  ;  and  Caius  Ciesar  .  .  .  rrreivcd  tlio  cocr- 
noiiieu  of  t'alisiila,  a  caliiji!^.  .-"■,  rnl'mis  I,  rm'- 
ribi(!<,  qidbns  iidolcsceiitiur  nan  ftn  nit  m  c.nrnni 
(Icnnaii'ici  p"trii<  sui.  And  llii'  rulina'  Nviir  aisn 
proper  to  the  monastic  bodies  -,  for  we  read  m  t  he 
ancient  C41ossariuni,  upon  tlie  rule  of  St.  Benedict 
.  .  .  tluit  c«;(V/fE  were  tied  with  latchets.'— Scott  ; 
Waverlcy,  xlviii. 

Caligula's  Horse.  lucita'tus.  It 
•".vas  made  a  priest  and  cousiil,  had  a 
mauger  of  ivory,  and  draiik  wiue  from 
a  golden  goblet.     {See  Hoese.) 

Caliph  or  Calif.  A  title  given  to 
the  successors  of  Mahomet.  Among  the 
Saracens  a  caliph  is  one  vested  with 
supreme  dignity.  The  caliphat  of  Bag- 
dad reached  its  highest  splendour  under 
Ilaroun  al  Raschid,  in  the  ninth  cen- 
tury. For  the  last  200  years  the  n.p- 
peliation  has  been  swallowed  up  in  the 
titles  of  Shah,  Saltan,  Emir,  and  so  on. 
(Arabic,  Khal'ifali,  a  successor;  khalafa, 
to  succeed.) 

Calis'ta.      The    heroine    of    Rowe's 

Fair  I'cnitent. 

Calis'to  and  Areas.  Calisto  was 
an  Arcadian  nymiA  metamorphosed  into 
a  she-bear  by  Jupiter.  Her  sou  Areas 
having  met  her  in  the  chase,  would  have 
killed  her,  but  Jupiter  converted  him 
into  a  he -bear,  and  placed  them  both  in 
the  heavens,  where  they  are  recognised 
as  the  Great  and  Little  Bear. 

Calix'tines  (3  syl.).  A  religious  sect 
of  Bohemians  in  the  fifteenth  centtiry ; 
so  called  from  Calix  (the  chalice),  which 
they  insisted  should  be  given  to  the  laity 
in  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper, 
as  well  as  the  bread  or  wafer. 

Call  (^i).  A  "divine"  summons  or 
invitation,  as  "  a  call  to  the  miuistrj-." 

A  call  before  the  curtain.  An  ajijilause 
inviting  a  favourite  actor  to  appear 
before  the  curtain,  and  make  his  bow  to 
the  audience. 

A  Gotfpcl  call.  The  invitation  of  the 
Gospel  to  men  to  believe  in  Jesus  to  the 
saving  of  their  soids. 

A  morning  call.  A  short  morning 
visit. 

A  call  on  shareholders.  A  demand  to 
pay  up  a  part  of  the  money  due  for 
shares  allotted  in  a  company. 

I'dijahle  at  call.  To  be  jiaid  on  de- 
maud. 

Call  Bird  {A).  A  bird  trained  as  a 
decoy. 

Call-boy  {Tlic).  A  boy  employed  in 
theatres  to  "call"  or  stimmon  actors, 
when  it  is  time  for  them  to  make  their 
appearance  on  the  stage. 


Call  of   Abraham.    The  invitation 

or  command  of  God  to  Abraham,  to  leave 
his  idolatrotis  couutiy,  under  the  j)roniise 
of  being  made  a  great  nation. 

Call  of  God.  An  invitation,  exhor- 
tation, or  warning,  by  the  dispensations 
of  Providence  (Isa.  sxii.  12)  ;  divine 
influence  on  the  mind  to  do  or  avoid 
something  (Heb.  iii.  1). 

Call  of  the  House.  An  imperative 
summons  sent  to  every  Member  of  Par- 
liament to  attend.  This  is  done  when 
the  sense  of  the  whole  House  is  required. 
At  the  muster  the  names  of  the  members 
are  called  orer,  and  defaidters  reported. 

Call  to  Arms  (To).  To  summon  to 
prepare  for  battle.     "  Ad  anna  vocare.^' 

Call  to  the  Bar.  The  admission  of 
a  law  student  to  the  privileges  of  a  bar- 
rister. The  names  of  those  qualified  are 
called  over.     (See  page  94,  col.  1,  Bar.) 

Call  to  the  Pastorate.  An  invita- 
tion to  a  minister  by  the  members  of  a 
Presbyterian  or  Nonconformist  church 
to  preside  over  a  certain  congregation. 

Call  to  the  Unconverted.  An  in- 
vitation accompanied  with  promises  and 
threats,  to  induce  the  unconverted  to 
receive  the  gospel.  Richard  Baxter 
wrote  a  book  so  entitled. 

Call  {T(j).  I  call  God  to  leitness.  I 
solemnly  declare  that  what  I  state  is  true. 

To  call.  To  invito :  as,  the  trumpet 
calls. 

"  If  honour  calls,  where'er  she  points  the  way, 

The  sous  of  honour  fcdlow  and  obey." 

Churchill:  Tlw  Fure.ircll,stAnzn,7. 

To  call  [a  man]  out.  To  challenge  him; 
to  a23peal  to  a  man's  honour  to  come 
forth  and  fight  a  duel. 

To  call  in  qncsiion.  To  doubt  the 
truth  of  a  statement ;  to  challenge  the 
truth  of  a  statement.  "  In  dabiam 
rocare.^' 

To  call  over  the  coals.     (See  Coals.) 

To  call  to  account.  To  demand  an  ex- 
planation ;  to  rej)rove. 

Called.  He  is  called  to  his  account. 
He  is  removed  by  death.  Called  to  the 
judgment  seat  of  God  to  give  an  account 
of  his  deeds,  whether  they  be  good,  or 
whether  they  be  evil.  {Sec  page  202, 
col.  I,  Calling.) 

Calla'bre  or  Calaber.  A  Cala'brian 
fur.  Ducauge  says,  "  At  Chichester  the 
'  priest  vicars '  and  at  St.  Paul's  the 
'  minor  canons '  wore  a  calabre  amyce  ;  " 
and  Bale,  in  his  Image  of  Both 
Churches,  alludes  to  the  "fair  rochets 
of  Raines  {Rennes),  and  costly  grey 
amices  of  calaber  and  cats'  tails." 


Caller  Herrings 


202 


Calumet 


"  The  Lord  Mayor  and  thoBeaWernien  above  tlie 
chair  oiiKlit  to  liavetlieir  coats  furred  with  t-'rey 
amis,  ami  also  with  ihain-'ealde  taffeta;  and  those 
hehiw  tlie  chair  witli  calaliie  and  with  green 
taffeta."— y//i^/c«i .-  ^Y(  "'  VUic  of  Loudon. 

Caller  Herrings.  Fresh  herrings. 
Hence  "  caller  air."  (Anglo-Saxon, 
calian,  to  cool.) 

Calligraphy  {The  art  of).  "Writing 
very  minutely  anil  yet  clearly.  Peter 
Bale,  iu  the  sixteenth  century,  Avrote  in 
the  coraijass  of  a  silver  penny  the  Lord's 
Prayer,  the  Creed,  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, two  Latin  prayers,  his  own  name, 
the  day  of  the  month  and  date  of  the 
year  since  the  accession  of  Queen 
Elizabeth,  and  a  motto.  With  a  glass 
this  writing  could  be  read.  By  photo- 
graphy a  sheet  of  the  Times  newspaper 
has  been  reduced  to  a  smaller  compass. 
(Greek,  calos-grapho,  I  write  beauti- 
fully.) 

Callim'achos.  The  Italian  Calli- 
machos.  Filippo  Buonaccorsi  (1437-1496). 

Calling.  A  vocation,  trade,  or  pro- 
-fession.  The  allusion  is  to  the  calling  of 
•the  apostles  by  Jesus  Christ  to  follow 
Him.  In  the  legal  profession  i)ersons 
must  still  be  called  to  the  bar  before  they 
can  practise. 

Effectual  cnlling.  An  invitation  to 
believe  in  Jesus,  rendered  effectual  by 
the  immediate  operation  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

Calliope  \Kul'-K-o-pc,  4  syl.,  Greek, 
KoAb5,  o\\i,  beautiful  voiei-\.  The  muse  of 
epic  or  heroic  poetry.  Her  emblems 
are  a  stylus  and  wax  tablets.  The 
painting  of  this  Muse  by  Ercolana 
Ercolanetti  (1615-1687)  and  her  statue 
by  Clementi  (who  died  in  1530)  are  very 
celebrated. 

*.*  The  Greek  word  is  KaXAiom),  in  which 
the  i  is  short.  Erroneously  called 
"  Callope." 

Callip'olis.  A  character  in' the  Battle 
of  Ah-dzar  (1594)  by  George  Peele.  It 
is  referred  to  by  Pistol  in  2  Henry  I  J'., 
act  ii.  4  ;  and  Sir  W.  Scott  uses  the  word 
over  and  over  again  as  the  synonym  of 
lady-love,  sweetheart,  chaiTaer.  Sir 
Walter  always  spells  the  word  Calli- 
polis,  but  Peele  calls  it  Calipolis.  The 
drunken  Mike  Lambourne  says  to  Amy 
Eobsart  — 

"Hark  ye,  most  fair  Caliipolis,  or  most  h)vely 
countess  of  clouts,  and  divine  duchess  uf  dark 
corners."— A'eni/»ort/i,  chap,  xxxiii. 

And  the  modest  Roland  Greeme  calls  the 
beautiful  Catheiin^  his  "  most  fair  Cal- 
lipOlis."     {The  Ahbot,  chap,  xi,) 


Callippic  Period.  The  correctiou 
of  the  Meton'ic  cycle  by  Callii^pos.  In 
four  cj'cles,  or  seventy-six  j'ears,  the 
Metonic  calculation  was  seven  ami  a-half 
in  excess.  Callippos  proposed  to  quad- 
ruple the  period  of  Metou,  and  deduct  a 
day  at  the  end  of  it :  at  the  exjiiratiou 
of  wliich  period  Callippos  imagined  that 
the  new  and  full  moons  returned  to  the 
same  day  of  the  solar  year. 

Callir'rhoe  (4  syl.).  The  lady-love 
of  Clia'reas,  in  Char'iton's  Greek  ro- 
mance, entitled  the  Lores  of  Ch<c' reus  and 
Cain rr hod',  written  iu  the  eighth  century. 

Cal'omeL    Hooper  says — 

"This  name,  which  means 'heautiful  Mack,' 
was  orif-'inally  given  to  the  .Ethiop's  mineral,  ur 
black  sulphuret  of  mercury.  It  was  afterwards 
applied  in  joke  by  Sir  Theodore  Mayerne  to  the 
chloride  of  mercury,  in  honour  of  a  favourite 
negro  servant  whom  lie  employed  to  prejiare  it. 
As  calonjel  is  a  it-liitc  powder,  the  name  is  merely 
a  jocular  misnonjer."- -1/<;((k«;  JJictiomirij. 

Greek,  koAos,  beautiful,  ^cAas,  black. 

Calo'yers.  Monks  in  the  Greek 
Church,  who  follow  the  rule  of  St. 
Basil.  They  are  divided  into  cen'ohites, 
who  recite  the  offices  from  midnight  to 
sunrise;  an'chorites,  who  live  in  heiTnit- 
ages ;  and  recluses,  who  shut  themselves 
up  in  caverns  and  live  on  alms.  (Greek, 
KoAo;  and  yipt»v,  beautiful  old  man.) 

Calpe  (2  sj^l.).  Calpe  and  Ah'i/la. 
The  two  pillars  of  Hercules.  According 
to  one  account,  these  two  were  originally 
only  one  mountain,  which  Hercules  tore 
asunder  ;  but  some  say  he  piled  up  each 
mountain  separately,  and  poured  the  sea 
between  them. 

"  Heaves  up  hutre  Abyla  on  Afric's  sand. 
Crowns  with  high  Calpe  Europe's  salient  strand, 
Crests  with  opposing  towers  the  splendid  scene, 
And  pours  from  nrns  immense  the  seit  liet ween. 
Duriviii:  Jicunomy  uf  Veyettitiuii. 

Cal'umet  [the  peace-pipe'].  "WTien 
the  North  American  Indians  make  peace 
or  form  an  alliance,  the  high  contracting 
parties  smoke  together  to  ratify  the 
aiTangement. 

The  peace-pipe  is  about  two  and  a- 
half  feet  long,  the  bowl  is  made  of  highly- 
polished  red  marble,  and  the  stena  of  a 
reed,  which  is  decorated  with  eagles' 
quills,  women's  hair,  and  so  on. 

"The  Great  Spirit  at  an  ancient 
period  called  the  Indian  nations  together, 
and  standing  on  the  precipice  of  the  red 
pipe-stone  rock,  broke  off  a  piece  which 
he  moulded  into  the  bowl  of  a  pipe,  and 
fitting  on  it  a  long  reed,  filled  the  pipe 
•with  the  bark  of  red  willow,  and  smoked 
over  them,  turning  to  the  four  winds. 
He  told  them  the  red  colour  of  the  pipe 
represented  their  flesh,  and  wbeu  they 


Calvary 


203 


Camacho 


smoked  it  they  must  bury  theii-  war- 
clubs  and  scali)iug-knives.  At  the  last 
whiff  the  Great  Spirit  disappeared." 

To  preseut  the  calumet  to  a  strauger 
is  a  mark  of  hospitality  and  good-will ; 
to  refuse  the  otter  is  an  act  of  hostile 
defiance. 
"  W.isli  the  war-paint  from  your  faces. 
Wasli  tliC  wai-slaliiH  from  your  Hnirers, 
Bui'v  your  \v.ii-i;Uiii.-  .iiid  your  weaiKjus;  .  .  . 
Smoke  the  i;iliiiiiei  in-etlier, 
And  as  brothers  h\e  heueeforwani." 

LonyJ'ellutv :  Iliitirnthn,  i. 

Cal'vary  [hnre  skull],  Gol'gotha 
[nki)//].  The  place  of  our  Lord's  cruci- 
fixion ;  so  ctilled  from  some  fanciful 
resemblance  which  it  bore  to  a  human 
skull.  The  present  church  of  "  the 
Holy  Sepulchre"  has  no  claim  to  be 
considered  the  site  thereof ;  it  is  far 
more  likely  that  the  "  mosque  of  Omar," 
or  tJie  do/lit'  of  the  rock,  occupies  the  real 
site. 

A  Calvary.  A  representation  of 'the 
successive  scenes  of  the  Passion  of  Christ 
in  a  series  of  pictures,  etc.,  in  a  church. 
The  shrine  containing  the  representations. 

Calvary  Clover  said  to  have  sprung 
uj)  in  the  track  made  by  Pilate  when  he 
went  to  the  cro.ss  to  see  his  ''  title 
affixed  "  [Jesus  of  Xazareth,  king  of  the 
Jews].  It  is  a  common  trefoil,  probably 
a  native  of  India  or  Turkey.  Each  of 
the  three  round  leaves  has  a  little  car- 
mine spot  in  the  centre.  In  the  day- 
time tlie  three  leaves  of  the  trefoil  form 
a  sort  of  cross  ;  and  in  the  flowering 
season  the  plant  bears  a  little  j^ellow 
flower,  liko  a  ''crown  of  thorns."  Julian 
tells  us  thai;  each  of  the  three  leaves  had 
in  his  time  a  white  cross  in  the  centre, 
and  -that  the  centre  cross  lasts  visible 
longer  than  the  crosses  of  the  other 
two  leaves.  {See  Christian  Teaditions.) 

Calvary  Cross  {A).  A  Latin  cro.ss 
mounted  on  tlireo  steps  (or  grises). 

Calvert's  Entire.  The  14th  Foot. 
Called  Calvert  from  their  colonel.  Sir 
Harry  Calvert  (I8'i6-1826),  and  entire, 
because  three  entire  battalions  were  kept 
up  for  the  good  of  Sir  Harry,  when  ad- 
jutant-general. The  term  is,  of  course, 
a  play  on  Calvert's  malt  liquor.  The 
regiment  is  now  called  The  Prince  of 
Wales's  Own  (West  Yorks.  Eegiment). 

Calves.  The  inhabitants  of  the  Isle 
of  lVi(/ht  are  so  called  from  a  legendary 
joke  which  states  that  a  calf  once  got 
its  head  firmly  wedged  in  a  wooden  pale, 
and,  instead  of  bi-eakiug  up  the  pale,  the 
fann-man  cut  off  the  calf's  head. 

Calves  gone  to  Grass  {His).  Said 
of  a  spindle-legged  map,     Aud  another 


mocking  taunt  is,  "Veal  will  be  dear, 
because  there  are  no  calves." 

Calves'  Head.  There  are  nuouf  trays 
of  (IreaKiiiy  a  ca/f\s  head.  Many  ways 
of  saying  or  doing  a  foolish  thing ;  a 
simpleton  has  many  waj's  of  showing 
his  folly ;  oi-,  gene7-ally,  if  one  way 
won't  do  we  must  try  another.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  great  Calves'  Head 
Club  banquet,  when  the  board  was 
laden  with  calves'  heads  cooked  in 
sundry  ways  and  divers  fashions. 

Calves'  Head  Club.  Instituted  in 
ridicule  of  Charles  I.  The  great  annual 
banquet  was  held  on  tlie  30th  Januarj', 
and  consisted  of  a  cod's  head,  to  repre- 
sent the  i^erson  of  Charles  Stuart,  in- 
dependent of  his  kingly  office ;  a  pike 
with  little  ones  in  its  mouth,  an  emblem 
of  tyranny  ;  a  boar's  head  witli  an  apple 
in  its  mouth  to  rejjresent  the  king  prey- 
ing on  his  subjects ;  and  calves'  heads 
dressed  in  sundry  waj's  to  represent 
Charles  in  his  regal  capacity.  After  the 
banquet,  the  king's  book  {Icon  Basil'ih'e) 
was  burnt,  and  the  parting  cup  was, 
"To  those  worthy  patriots  who  killed 
the  tyrant." 

Calvinism.  The  five  cliief  points 
of  Calvinism  are : 

(1)  Predestination,  or  particular  elec- 
tion. 

(2)  Irresistible  grace. 

(3)  Original  sin,  or  the  total  depravity 
of  the  natural  man,  which  renders  it 
morally  impossible  to  lielieve  aud  turn 
to  God  of  his  own  free  will. 

(4)  Particular  redemption. 

(.5)  Final  perseverance  of  the  saints. 

Cal'ydon.  A  forest  supposetl,  in  the 
romances  relating  to  King  Arthur,  to 
occujiy  the  northern  jiortiou  of  England. 

Calypso,  in  Funelon's  Telvmariue,  is 
meant  to  represent  Madame  de  Monte- 
span.  In  fairy  mythology,  she  was 
queen  of  the  island  Ogyg'ia  on  which 
Ulysses  was  wrecked,  and  where  he  was 
detained  for  seven  years. 

Calypso's  Isle.  Gozo,  near  Malta. 
Called  in  classic  mythology  Ogygia. 

Cam  and  Isis.     The  universities  of 
Cambridge  and  Oxford  ;  so  called  from 
the  rivers  on  which  they  stand. 
"  May  you,  my  Cam  ami  Isis,  preacli  it  long, 
'Tlie  right  divine  of  kings  to  govern  wrong.'" 
Pope:  Bunciud,  iv.  1S7. 

Cama.  The  God  of  love  and  mar- 
riage in  Indian  mythology. 

Cama'cho,  "richest  of  men,"  makes 
grand  preparations  for  his  wedding  witU 


Camaldolites 


204 


Cambyses 


Quite'ria,  "fairest  of  women";  but,  as 
the  bridal  party  were  on  tlieir  way, 
Basil'ius  cheats  him  of  his  bride  by  pre- 
tending to  kill  himself.  As  he  is  sup- 
posed to  be  dying,  Quiteria  is  given  to 
him  in  marriage  as  a  mere  matter  of 
form ;  but,  as  soon  as  this  is  done,  up 
jumps  Basilius,  and  shows  that  his 
wounds  were  a  mere  pretence.  {Cer- 
vantes: Bon  Qi/i.vote,  pt.  ii.  bk.  2,  ch.  3,  4.) 

Camaldolites  (4  syl.).  A  religious 
order  of  great  rigidity  of  life,  founded 
in  the  vale  of  Camal'doli,  in  the  Tuscan 
Apennines,  by  St.  Eomuald,  a  Bene- 
dictine.    (Eleventh  century.) 

CaHiaral'zaman  (Trince)  fell  in  love 
with  Baduu'ni,  Princess  of  China,  the 
moment  lie  saw  her.  {Arabian  Xtylils  : 
I'r'uice  ( '((inaralza)uan.) 

Camarilla  (Spanish).  A  clique  ;  the 
confidants  or  private  advisers  of  the 
sovereign.  It  literally  means  a  small 
private  chamber,  and  is  in  Spain  a})plied 
to  the  room  in  which  boys  are  flogged. 

"  Eucii'cled  with  a  dansenms  camarilla."— 77ie 
Timcti. 

Camari'na.  Ke  moveas  Camarliiam 
(Don't  meddle  with  Camarina).  Caraa- 
rlna  Avas  a  lake  in  Sicily,  which,  in  time 
of  drought,  yielded  a  pestilential  stench. 
The  inhabitants  consulted  an  oracle 
about  draining  it,  and  AjioUo  replied, 
"Don't  meddle  with  it."  Nevertheless, 
they  drained  it,  and  ere  long  an  enemy 
marched  an  armj'  over  the  bed  of  the 
lake  and  pkmdcred  the  city.  The  pro- 
verb is  ai)plied  to  tliose  who  remove  one 
evil,  but  thus  give  place  to  a  greater. 
The  Channel  may  be  an  evil  to  those 
who  suffer  sea-sickness,  but  it  is  a 
million  times  better  to  endure  this  evil 
than  to  make  it  a  high  road  to  invaders. 
The  application  is  very  extensive,  as : 
Don't  kill  the  small  birds,  or  you  will  be 
devoured  by  insects.  One  pest  is  a  safe- 
guard against  a  greater  one. 

V  A  similar  Latin  phrase  is  Anayyrin 
■move  re. 

"  When  tlje  laird  of  Ellansowan  drove  tlie 
wirsies  from  the  neisbliourUood,  though  they 
ijad  been  allowed  to  remain  there  undisturbed 
hitherto,  Dominie  .Samiisou  warned  him  of  the 
danv'er  by  yuotin?,' the  proverb 'iVe  moveas  Cam- 
aiiiTnm:  "—fiir  IV.  Scoff ;  Guy  Manncriiw,  chiip.  vii. 

Cam'balo's    Ring.      Given  him   by 
his  sister  Can'ace.     It  had  the  virtue  of 
healing  wounds.  (-SW'Cambel.)  {Spenxer  : 
Faerie  Queene,  bk.  iv.) 
"  Well  mote  ye  wonder  how  that  noble  knight, 
After  he  had  so  often  wounded  lieen, 
Could  snind  on  font  now  to  rt'iiew  the  florht  .  .  . 
All  was  tliVdiii-'h  virtue  of  tin-  rin'^'  lie  wore  ; 

The  wliich,  mil  nnlv  did  imt  from  him  let 
One  drop  of  blood  to  f-.'.U,  but  did  restore 
His  weakened  powers,  and  dulled  spirits 
whet."  Spenser :  Faerie  Queene,  iv.  3. 


Cambcl.  Called  by  Chaucer,  Cam'- 
balo ;  brother  of  Can'ace,  a  female  para- 
gon. He  challenged  every  suitor  to  his 
sister's  hand,  ancl  overthrew  all  except 
Tri'amond,  who  married  tlie  lady. 
{Spenser  :  Faerie  Queene,  book  iv.)  {Sec 
Canack.) 

Camber.  Second  son  of  King  Brute, 
to  whom  Wales  was  left,  whence  its 
name  of  Cambria.     (British  fable.) 

Cambria.  The  ancient  name  of 
Wales,  the  laud  of  the  Cimbri  or  Cj'mry. 

"Cambria's  fatal  day." 

Gray:  r.ard. 

Cam'brian.      Pertaining   to  Wales  ; 

Welsh.     {Sec  above.) 

'■  The  Camlirian  mountains,  like  far  clouds, 
That  skirt  the  blue  horizon,  dusky  rise." 
Tlwmson:  Spriiiij,  9(il— fli. 

Cam'brian  Series  (in  geology).  The 
earliest  fossiliferous  rocks  in  North 
Wales.  So  named  ])y  Professor  Sedg- 
wick. 

Cambric.  A  kind  of  very  fine  white 
linen  cloth,  so  named  from  Cambray  or 
Camerj'k,  in  Flanders,  where  it  is  still 
the  chief  manufacture. 

"  He  hath  ribbons  of  all  the  colours  of  the  rain- 
bow ;  inkles,  caddises,  <ambri<-ks,  and  lawns." — 
.Shalu^ixan:  Wiiittr's  Tale,  iv.  3. 

Cam'buscan'.  King  of  Sarra,  in  the 
land  of  Tartary ;  the  model  of  all  royal 
virtues.  His  wife  was  El'feta  ;  his  two 
sons,  Algarsife  and  Cambalo  ;  and  his 
daughter,  Can'ace.  On  her  birthday 
(October  loth)  the  King  of  Arabia  and 
India  sent  Cambuscan  a  "'steed  of  brass, 
which,  between  sunrise  and  sunset,  would 
carry  its  rider  to  any  spot  on  the  earth." 
All  that  was  required  was  to  whisper 
the  name  of  the  place  in  the  horse's  ear, 
mount  upon  his  back,  and  turn  a  pin  set 
in  his  ear.  When  the  rider  had  arrived 
at  the  place  required,  he  had  to  turn 
another  pin,  and  the  horse  instantly  de- 
scended, and,  with  another  screw  of  the 
pin,  vanished  till  it  was  again  required. 
This  story  is  told  by  Chaucer  in  the 
Sr/irire\i  Tale,  but  was  never  finished. 
Milton  (//  Fcnseroso)  accents  the  word 
Cambus'-can. 

"  Him  that  loft  half-told 
The  story  of  t'ambuscan  bold." 

(See  Canace.) 

Camby'ses  (3  sjd.).  A  pompous,  rant- 
ing character  in  Preston's  Inmentable 
tragedy  of  that  name. 

"  (4ive  me  a  cup  of  sack,  to  make  mine  eyes  look 
red  ;  for  I  must  speak  in  passion,  and  I  will  do  it 
in  King  Cambyses'  \e\n."—Shake!'pcare :  1  Henry 
IV.,  ii.  4. 


Oamden  Society 


20; 


Catnlan 


Camden  Society,  for  the  publication 
of  early  historic  and  literary  remains,  is 
named  in  honour  of  WilHam  Camden, 
the  historian. 

Camel.  The  name  of  Mahomet's 
favomite  camel  was  Al  Kaswa.  The 
mosque  at  Koba  covers  the  sjjot  where 
it  knelt  when  Mahomet  fled  from  Mecca. 
Mahomet  considered  the  kneeling  of  the 
camel  as  a  sign  sent  by  God,  and  re- 
mained at  Koba  in  safety  for  four  days. 
The  swiftest  of  his  camels  was  Al  Ad/ui. 

CuiDcl.  The  prophet  Mahomet's  camel 
performed  the  whole  journey  from  Jeru- 
salem to  Mecca  in  four  bounds,  for  which 
service  he  had  a  place  in  heaven  with  Al- 
borak  (the prophet's  "horse "),  Balaam's 
ass,  Tobit's  dog,  and  Ketmir  (the  dog  of 
the  seven  sleepers).    (Citrzoii.) 

Cinucl.  "It  is  easier  for  a  camel  to 
go  through  the  eye  of  a  needle,  than  for 
a  rich  man  to  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God"  (Matt.  xix.  24).  In  the  Koran 
we  find  a  similar  expression  :  "  The  im- 
pious shall  find  the  gates  of  heaven  shut ; 
nor  shall  he  enter  till  a  camel  shall  pass 
through  the  eye  of  a  needle."  In  the 
Rabbinical  writings  we  have  a  slight 
variety  which  goes  to  prove  that  the 
word  "camel"  should  not  be  changed 
into  "  cable,"  as  Theophylact  suggests  : 
"Perhaps  thou  art  one  of  the  Parape- 
dith'iaus,  who  can  make  an  elephant 
pass  through  the  eye  of  a  needle."  {Sec 
Cable.  ) 

"  It  is  as  liani  to  come,  as  for  a  camel 
To  tLrcad  tbe  postern  of  a  nceiUe's  eye." 
SItaUefpeare:  Richard  II. ,  v.  5. 

Cam.el'lia.  The  technical  name  of  a 
genus,  and  the  popular  name  of  the 
species  of  evergreen  shrubs  ;  so  named 
in  honour  of  G.  J.  Kamel  (Latin  Ccniicl- 
liii.s),  a  Spanish  Jesuit.  Introduced  into 
England  in  1739. 

Camelot  (Somersetshire),  where 
King  Arthur  held  his  coiu-t.     {See  WiN- 

CHESTEE.) 

Camelote  (2  syl.).  Fustian,  rubbish, 
trash.  The  cloth  so  called  ought  to  be 
made  of  goats'  hair,  but  is  a  mixture  of 
wool  and  silk,  wool  and  hair,  or  wool, 
silk,  and  hair,  etc.  (French,  camcloi  ; 
Ai-abic,  caiiilat.)  {See  page 206,  Camlet.) 

Cameo.  An  anaglyph  on  a  precious 
stone.  The  ((iidgh/ph  is  when  the  figure 
is  raised  in  relief  ;  an  intaglio  is  when 
the  figure  is  hollowed  out.  The  word 
cameo  means  an  onyx,  and  the  most 
famous  cameo  in  the  world  is  the  onyx 
containing  the  apotlieosis  of  AiKjustiis. 
These  precious  stones  have  two  layers 


of  diiferent  colours,  one  serving  for  the 
figui-e,  and  the  other  for  the  ground. 

Cameron  Highlanders.  Tlic  T'Jth 
Regiment  of  Infantry,  raised  by  Allan 
Cameron,  of  Errock,  in  1793.  Now 
called  "The  Queen's  Own  Cameron 
Highlanders." 

Cameronian  Kegiment.  The  26th 
Infantry,  which  had  its  origin  in  a  body 
of  Cameronians  {q.v.),  in  the  Revolution 
of  1688.  Now  the  1st  Battalion  of  the 
Scottish  Rifles ;  the  2nd  Battalion  is  the 
old  No.  90. 

Cameronians.  The  strictest  sect  of 
Scotch  Presbyterians,  organised  in  1680, 
by  Richai'd  Cam'eron,  who  was  slain  in 
battle  at  Aird's  Moss  in  1680.  He  ob- 
jected to  the  alUance  of  Church  and 
State.  In  1876  most  of  the  Cameronians 
were  merged  in  the  Free  Church.  In 
history  the  Cameronians  are  generally 
called  the  Covenanters. 

Camilla.  Virgin  queen  of  the  Yol- 
scians.  Virgil  {^'Encid,  vii.  809)  says  she 
was  so  swift  that  she  coidd  run  over  a 
field  of  corn  without  bending  a  single 
blade,  or  make  her  way  over  the  sea 
without  even  wetting  her  feet. 
"Not  so  wlieu  swift  Camilla  scours  the  plain, 
Flies  o'er  tlu:  unljeudiug  coru  and  skims  along 
the  main.'' 

Piipc:  Essay  on  Criticism,  37i-3. 

Camillus,  five  times  Dictator  of 
Rome,  was  falsely  accused  of  embezzle- 
ment, and  went  into  voluntary  exile  ; 
but  when  the  Gauls  besieged  Rome,  he 
returned  and  delivered  his  country. 


Camisard.  In  French  history,  the 
Camisards  are  the  Protestant  insurgents 
of  the  Cevennes,  who  i-esisted  the 
violence  of  the  dragonnades,  after  the 
revocation  of  the  edict  of  Nantes.  Their 
leader  was  Cavalier,  afterwards  Gov- 
ernor of  Jersey. 

Cam'isarde  or  Camisa'clo.  A  night 
attack  ;  so  called  because  the  attacking 
party  wore  a  camise  or  peasant's  smock 
over  their  armour,  both  to  conceal  it, 
and  that  they  might  the  better  recognise 
each  other  in  the  dark. 

Camisole  (3  syl.).  A  loose  jacket 
worn  by  women  when  dressed  in  negligee 
(French). 

Camisole  de  Force.  A  strait-waist- 
coat. Frequently  mentioned  in  accounts 
of  capital  punishments  in  France. 

Camlan  {Baffle  of,  Cornwall),  which 
put  an  end  to  the  Knights  of  the  Roimd 


Camlet 


206 


Canada  Balsam 


Table.  Here  Arthur  received  his  death 
wound  from  the  hand  of  his  nephew 
Modred.     (a.d.  542.) 

Camlet  is  not  connected  with  the 
word  camel  ;  it  is  a  fine  cloth  made  of 
(jmtfi  hair,  called  Turkish  yam,  and  is 
from  the  Arabic  word  camhtt,  which 
Littre  says  is  so  called  from  seil  el  canui 
(the  Angora  goat). 

Carn'mock.  As  crooked  as  a  cammock. 
The  cammock  is  a  \t\ece  of  timber  l)ent 
for  the  knee  of  a  ship  ;  a  hockey-stick  ; 
a  shinny-club.     {^Liii//o-Sa.roii.) 

'•TlinuKli  tlio  camiiKuk.t  lie  more  it  is  bowed  tlio 
lioltei-  it  is  ;  yet  tlie  how,  tlie  more  it  is  heut  tlie 
wtMker  it  \\:i\eth."—Lil!i. 

Camorra.  A  secret  society  of  Italy 
organised  early  in  the  nineteenth  century. 
It  claimed  the  right  of  settling  disputes, 
etc. 

Cainorrist.  One  of  Ihe  desjjeradoes 
belonging  to  the  Camorra.  "  Camorr- 
ism,"  the  gospel  of  tlie  league. 

Camp  Candlestick  {A).  A  bottle, 
or  a  soldier's  bayonet. 

Camp-followers.  Non-combatants 
(such  as  servants,  carriers,  hostlers, 
suttlers,  laundresses,  and  so  on),  who 
follow  an  army.  We  are  told  that  in 
18.59  as  many  as  8o,000  camp-followers 
were  in  attendance  on  15,000  combatants 
in  a  Bengal  army. 

Campaign  Wig  (-/),  imported  from 
France.  It  was  made  very  full,  was 
curled,  and  was  eighteen  inches  in  length 
in  the  front,  with  drop  locks.  In  some 
cases  the  back  part  of  the  wig  was  put 
in  a  black  silk  bag.  Of  course  the 
campaign  referred  to  the  victories  of 
Marlborough.  (Social  Life  in  the  Beign 
of  Queen  Anne,  chap,  xii.)  " 

V  There  were  also  campaign  coats, 
campaign  lace,  campaign  shoes,  cam- 
paign shirts,  campaign  gowns,  campaign 
waistcoats,  etc. 

'  Campa'nia.  Properly  the  Terra  di 
Lavo'ro  of  Italy,  i.e.  the  plain  country 
about  Capua. 

"  l)is(l;uiitul  of  Camiiani-a's  gentle  plains." 

Thumson :  Su m mer. 

Campaspe  (3  syl.).  A  beautiful 
harlot,  whom  Alexander  the  Great 
handed  over  to  Ajjelles.  Apelles  drew 
her  in  the  nude. 

"  When  Cupid  and  Campaspe  played 
At  cards  for  kisses,  Cupid  paid."      Lilii. 

Campbells  are  Coming  (T/ie).  This 
soul-stirriiig  song  \v:is  composed  in  1715, 
when  tilt'  Earl  of  Mar  raised  the  stan- 
dard for  the  JStuarts  against  George  I. 


John  Campbell  was  Commander-in- 
Chief  of  his  Majesty's  forces,  and  the 
rebellion  was  quashed.  The  main  in- 
terest now  attached  to  the  famous  song 
is  connected  with  the  siege  of  Luckuow 
in  the  Indian  rebellion,  1857.  Nana 
Sahib  had  massacred  women  and  child- 
ren mo.st  foullj',  and  while  the  stn-vivors 
were  expecting  instant  death,  a  Scotch 
woman  lying  ill  on  the  ground  heard 
the  pibroch,  and  exclaimed,  "Dinnaye 
hear  it  ?  Diuua  j-e  hear  it  V  The  jjipes 
o'  Havelock  sound."  And  soon  after- 
wards the  rescue  Avas  accomphsheil. 
The  first  verse  runs  thus : — 

"  Tlie  Campliells  are  comins;,  O-lio  !  O-lio  ! 
Till-  Caiiiiiliells  an;  fuminf,',  O-lio  I 
Tlie  Cainpliells  are  comiiii,'  to  Imnnif  I.oi-li 
Leven, 
The  Caiiipbells  are  coniin!.',  O-lio  ! 

Campbellite  (3  syl.).  A  follower  of 
Jolm  McLcod  Campbell,  who  taught  the 
universality  of  the  atonement,  for  which, 
in  1831,  he  was  deposed. 

Campceiling.  A  ceiling  sloping  on 
one  side  from  tlie  vertical  wall  towards  a 
plane  surface  in  the  middle.  A  corruj)- 
tiou  of  ei/in  (twisted  or  bent)  ceiling. 
(Halliwell  gives  earn,  "  awry.") 

Campeador  Qran-pa'-dor).  The  Cid 
{'I  ■'■■)■ 

Can'ace  (3  syl.).  A  paragon  of 
women,  the  daughter  of  King  Cambus- 
can',  to  whom  the  King  of  Arabia  and 
India  sent  as  a  jiresent  a  miiTor  and  a 
ring.  The  miiror  would  tell  the  lady  if 
any  man  on  whom  she  set  her  heart 
would  prove  true  or  false,  and  the  ring 
(which  was  to  be  worn  on  her  thumb) 
would  enable  her  to  understand  the 
language  of  birds  and  to  converse  with 
them.  It  would  also  give  the  wearer 
perfect  knowledge  of  the  medicinal  pro- 
perties of  all  roots.  Chaucer  never 
finished  the  tale,  but  probably  he  meant 
to  marry  Can'ace  to  some  knight  who 
would  be  able  to  overthrow  her  two 
brothers,  Cam'balo  and  Algarsife,  in  the 
tournament.   {Sfpiire^s  Tale.)  [See  hcloic.) 

Can'ace  was  courted  by  a  crowd  of 
suitors,  but  her  brother,  Cam'balo  or 
Cambel,  gave  out  that  anyone  who  pre- 
tended to  her  hand  must  encounter /;//// 
in  single  combat  and  overthrow  him. 
She  ultimately  married  Tri'amond,  sou 
of  the  fairy  A.g'a.^ii.  {Spenser :  Faerie 
Q«ro/(',  bk.  iv.  3.)     (iSV'(?  Cambel.  ) 

Can'ache  (3  syl. ) .  One  of  Actaeon's 
dogs,  ((ireek,  "the  clang  of  metal 
falling.") 

Canada  Balsam.  Made  from  the 
Tinas  halsainca,  a  native  of  Canada, 


Canaille 


207 


Candle 


Canaille  (French,  can-naif e).  The 
mob ;  the  raVjble  (ItaUan,  canaglia,  a 
pack  of  dogs,  from  Latin  caiiis,  a  dog). 

Canard.  A  hoax.  Cornelissen,  to 
tr_y  the  gullibility  of  the  public,  reported 
in"  the  papers  that  he  had  twenty  ducks, 
one  of  which  he  cut  up  and  threw  to  the 
nineteen,  who  devoured  it  greedily.  He 
then  cut  up  another,  then  a  third,  and 
so  on  till  nineteen  were  cut  up  ;  and  as 
the  nineteenth  was  gobbled  up  by  the 
surviving  duck,  it  followed  that  this  one 
duck  actually  ate  nineteen  ducks — a 
wonderful  proof  of  duck  voracity.  This 
tale  had  the  i-un  of  all  the  pajjers,  and 
gave  a  new  word  to  the  language. 
(French,  cane,  a  duck.)     {Qiietelet.) 

Canary  {A).  Slang  for  "a  guinea" 
or  "sovereign."  Gold  coin  is  so  called 
because,  like  a  canary,  it  is  yellow. 

Canary-bird  {A).  A  jail-bird.  At 
one  time  certun  desjjerate  convicts  were 
dressed  in  yellow  ;  and  jail  was  the  caf/e 
of  these  "  canaries." 

Cancan.  To  dance  flie  cancan.  A 
free-and-easy  way  of  dancing  quacUilles 
invented  by  Eigolboche,  and  adopted  in 
the  pubUc  gardens,  the  opera  comique, 
and  the  casinos  of  Paris.  {Cancan 
familiarity,  tittle-tattle.) 

"  They  were  going  tlirough  a  quadrille  with  all 
those  suiii'lemcntary  gestures  introduced  by  the 
great  lligulnoche,  a  notorious  danseuse,  to  whom 
tlie  notorious  cancan  owesitsorigin."— 4.  Egmont 
Uiiki  :  Paris  Oriyinuh  («ie  CItiffunier). 

Cancel,  to  blot  out,  is  merely  "  to 
make  lattice-work."  This  is  done  by 
making  a  cross  over  the  part  to  be 
omitted.  (Latin,  cancello,  to  make  trellis.) 
{See  Cross  it  out.) 

Cancer  (the  Crab)  appears  when  the 
sun  has  reached  his  highest  northern 
limit,  and  begins  to  go  backward  towards 
the  south ;  but,  Uke  a  crab,  the  return 
is  sideways  (June  '21st  to  July  23rd). 

V  According  to  fable,  Cancer  was  the 
animal  which  Juno  sent  against  Her- 
cules, when  he  combated  the  Hydra  of 
Lerne.  Cancer  bit  the  hero's  foot,  but 
Hercules  killed  the  creature,  and  Juno 
took  it  up  to  heaven,  and  made  it  one  of 
the  twelve  signs  of  the  zodiac. 

Candau'les  (3  syl.).  King  of  Lydia, 
who  exposed  the  charms  of  his  wife  to 
Gy'ge's  ;  whereupon  the  queen  compelled 
Gyges  to  assassinate  her  husband,  after 
which  she  married  the  murderer,  who 
became  king,  and  reigned  twenty- eight 
years.     (71(5-678.) 

Can'didate  (3  syl.)  means  "  clothed 
in  white."  Those  who  solicited  the 
office  of  consul,  quaestor,  pratoi",  etc., 


among  the  Romans,  arrayed  themselves 
in  a  loose  white  robe.  It  was  loose  that 
they  might  show  the  people  their  scars, 
and  wliite  in  sign  of  fidelity  and  humilitj\ 
(Latin,  candldus,  whence  candidati, 
clothed  in  white,  etc.) 

Candide  (2  syl.).  The  hero  of  Vol- 
taire's novel  so  called.  All  sorts  of  mis- 
fortunes are  heaped  upon  him,  and  he 
bears  them  all  with  cynical  indifference. 

Candle. 

Bell,  Book,  and  Candle.  {See  page  120, 
col.  1,  Bell,  etc.) 

Fine  (or  Oai/)  as  the  Jdng\s  candle. 
"  Bariole  co/ninc  la  chandeJle  des  rois,'''' 
in  allusion  to  an  ancient  custom  of  pre- 
senting, on  January  Gth,  a  candle  of 
various  colours  to  the  three  kings  of 
Cologne.  It  is  generally  applied  to  a 
woman  overdressed,  especially  with  gay 
ribbons  and  flowers.  "  Fine  as  five- 
pence." 

The  f/aine  is  not  icorth  the  candle  (Le 
jeu  ne  vaut  pas  la  chandelle).  Not  worth 
even  the  cost  of  the  caudle  that  lights 
the  players. 

To  hum  the  candle  at  both  ends.  In 
French,  "  Bruler  la  chandelle  jjar  les 
deux  boats.'"  To  indulge  in  two  or  more 
expensive  luxuries  or  dissipated  habits 
at  the  same  time  ;  to  haste  to  rise  up 
early  and  late  take  rest,  eating  the  bread 
of  carefulness. 

To  hold  a  candle  to  the  devil.  To  aid  or 
countenance  that  which  is  wrong.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  practice  of  Roman 
Catholics,  who  burn  candles  before  the 
image  of  a  favourite  saint,  carry  them  in 
funeral  i^rocessious,  and  place  them  on 
their  altars. 

V  When  Jessica  (in  the  Merchant  cf 
Venice,  ii.  G)  says  to  Lorenzo  :  "What, 
must  I  hold  a  candle  to  my  shame  ?  "  she 
means.  Must  I  direct  attention  to  this 
disguise,  and  blazon  my  folly  abroad  '■^ 
Why,  "  Cupid  himself  would  blush  to 
see  me  thus  transformed  to  a  boy."  She 
does  not  mean,  Must  I  glory  in  my 
shame  ? 

To  sell  by  the  candle.  A  species  of 
sale  by  auction.  A  pin  is  thrust  through 
a  caudle  about  an  inch  from  the  top,  and 
bidding  goes  on  till  the  candle  is  burnt 
down  to  the  pin,  when  the  pin  drops 
into  the  candlestick,  and  the  last  bidder 
is  declared  the  purchaser.  This  sort  of 
auction  was  employed  in  1893,  according 
to  the  Beading  Jfercarg  (Dec.  16),  at 
Aldermaston,  near  Reading. 

'■  The  Council  thinks  it  meet  to  pnniose  the  way 
of  selling  by 'inch  of  candle,'  as  being  the  most 
probable  means  to  procure  the  true  value  of  tUrt 
goods."— if  (»on ;  Letters,  etc. 


Candle-holder 


208 


Cannon 


To  smell  of  the  lamp  (or  candle).  To 
betray  laborious  art,  but  the  best  lite- 
rary work  is  the  art  of  concealing  art ; 
to  manifest  great  pains  and  long  study 
by  night. 

To  voiv  a  vandle  to  the  devil.  To  pro- 
Initiate  the  devil  by  a  bribe,  as  some 
seek  to  propitiate  the  saints  in  glory  by 
a  votive  candle. 

What  is  the  Latin  for  candle  ? — Tac'e. 
Here  is  a  play  of  vrords :  ta'ce  means 
hold  your  tongue,  don't  bother  me.  (6Vy; 
Goose.) 

Candles  used  by  Roman  Catholics  at 
funerals  are  the  relic  of  an  ancient 
Roman  custom. 

Candle-holder.  An  abettor.  The  re- 
ference is  to  the  practice  of  holding  a 
candle  in  the  Catholic  Church  for  the 
reader,  and  in  ordinary  life  to  light  a 
workman  when  he  requires  more  light. 

"  I'll  lie  candle-bolder  and  look  on.''— .S//«Ao- 
speare :  Borneo  and  Juliet,  i.  4. 

Candles  of  the  Night.  The  stars 
are  so  called  by  Shakesj^eare,  in  the 
Merchant  of  Venice,  v.  1.  Milton  has 
improved  upon  the  idea : — 

"  Else,  O  tbievisU  Nipbt, 
TrVby  sbonldst  tbou,  but  for  some  felonious  end, 
In  tliv  dark  lantern  tbus  close  up  tbe  stars 
Tbat  Nature  bung  in   heaven,  and  filled  tbeir 

lanii's 
Witb  everlasting  oil.  to  give  due  light 
To  tbe  misled  and  lonely  traveller  ?  " 

Camus,  ;;00-20C. 

Candlemas  Day.  Tlie  feast  of  the 
purification  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  when 
Christ  was  presented  b}'  her  in  the  Tem- 
ple. February  '2nd,  when,  in  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  there  is  a  candle  pro- 
cession, to  consecrate  all  the  candles 
which  will  be  needed  in  the  church 
during  the  year.  The  caudles  symbolise 
Jesus  Christ,  called  "  the  light  of  the 
world,"  and  "  a  light  to  lighten  the 
Gentiles."  It  was  the  old'  Roman  cus- 
tom of  burning  candles  to  the  goddess 
Feb'rua,  mother  of  Mars,  to  scare  away 
evil  sijirits. 

"  On  Candlemas  Day 
t'andles  and  candlesticks  throw  all  away." 

Candour  (3frs.).  A  tj^pe  of  female 
backbiters.  In  Sheridan's  comedy  of 
The  School  for  Scandal. 

"The  name  of  '  Mrs.  Candour'  lias  become  one 
of  those  formidable  by-words,  which  have  had 
more  power  in  putting  folly  and  ill-nature  out  of 
counienance  than  whole  volumes  of  remon- 
strance."— T.  Moore. 

Canens.  A  nymph,  wife  of  Picus. 
King  of  the  Laurentgs.  When  Circe  had 
changed  Picus  into  a  bird,  Canens 
lamented  him  so  greatly  that  she  pined 
away,  till  she  became  a  ro.v  et  preeterea 
nihil.     {Oeid:3Ietamo7phoses,  14  fab.  9.) 


Caneph'orse  (in  architecture).  Fig- 
ures of  j'oung  persons  of  either  sex 
bearing  a  basket  on  their  head.  (Latin, 
caiiephorce,  plural  ;  singular,  Greek, 
/coi'T)(^dpos.)  The  English  singular  is 
"  caneiihor  "  (3  syl.). 

Canicular  Days.  The  dog-days, 
corresjjonding  with  the  overflow  of  the 
Nile.  From  the  middle  of  July  to  the 
beginning  of  the  second  week  in  Sep- 
tember. (Latin,  eanicala,  diminutive  cif 
canis,  a  dog.) 

Canicular  Period.  A  cycle  of  HGl 
years  or  14G0  Julian  j'ears,  called  a 
' '  Sothic  jjeriod. ' '  When  it  was  supposed 
that  any  given  day  had  passed  through 
all  the  seasons  of  the  year. 

J  Canicular  Year.  The  ancient  Egyjj- 
tiau  year,  computed  from  one  heliacal 
rising  of  the  Dog-star  {Sirius)  to  the 
next. 

Canid'ia.  A  sorceress,  who  could 
bring  the  moon  from  heaven.  Alluded  to 
by  Horace.     {£podes,  v.) 

"  Your  ancient  conjunn-s  were  wont 
To  make  her  [the  moon]  from  her  sphere  dis- 
mount. 
And  to  their  incantations  stoop." 

flulhr:  llitdibros,  part  ii.  ?,. 

Canister.  The  head  (pugilistic  term) . 
"To  mill  his  canister"  is  to  break  his 
head.  A  "canister  cap"  is  a  covering 
for  the  head,  whether  hat  or  cap.  A 
"  canister  "  is  a  small  coffer  or  box,  and 
the  head  is  the  "canister"  or  coffer  of 
man's  brains. 

Canker.    The  briar  or  dog-rose. 

"  Put  down  Richard,  tbat  sweet  lovely  rose, 
And  plant  this  thorn,  this  canker,  Bolingbroke." 
l<l(ahcs^ieare :  1  Hairji  /!'.,  i.  3. 

Cannse.  The  place  where  Han'nibal 
defeated  the  Romans  under  L.  ^mil'ius 
Paulus.  Any  fatal  battle  that  is  the 
turning  point  of  a  great  general's  pros- 
perity is  called  his  Canna;.  Thus,  Ave 
say,  "  Moscow  was  the  Caunoe  of  Nai^o- 
leon  Bonaparte." 

Cannel  Coal.  A  corruption  of  can- 
dle eoal,  so  called  from  the  bright  flame, 
unmixed  with  smoke,  which  it  j'ields  in 
combustion. 

Cannibal.  A  word  applied  to  those 
who  eat  human  flesh.  The  usual  deriva- 
tion is  Caribbee,  corrupted  into  Canibbee, 
supposed  to  be  man-eaters.  Some  of 
the  tribes  of  these  islands  have  no  r. 

"The  natives  live  in  great  fear  of  the  canibnls 
(i.f.  Carilials,  or  people  of  Ca.n\y.\,):'—Coiainbiis. 

Cannon  (in  billiards).  A  corruption 
of  carro)n,  which  is  short  for  carainbole. 
A  cannon  is  when  the  player's  ball  strikes 


Canoe 


209 


Canossa 


the  adversary's  ball  in  such  a  way  as  to 
glance  off  and  stiike  a  second  ball. 

Canoe'  (2  syl.).  A  boat.  (Spanish, 
ranoa,  a  canoe ;  Dutch,  cano ;  German, 
/i-(//ui,  a  boat ;  Old  French,  cane,  a  ship, 
and  canot,  a  boat ;  Latin,  canna,  a  hollow 
stem  or  reed;  our  ccoie,  carf=.&  jug; 
catnwii,  canal,  etc.) 

Canon.  The  canons  used  to  be  those 
persons  who  resided  iu  the  buildings 
contiguous  to  the  cathedral,  employed 
either  in  the  daily  service,  or  iu  the 
education  of  the  choristers.  The  word 
is  Greek,  and  means  a  measuring  rod, 
the  beam  of  a  balance ;  then,  a  roll  or 
register  containing  the  names  of  the 
clergy  who  are  licensed  to  officiate  in  a 
cathedral  church. 

Canon.    A  divine  or  ecclesiastical  law. 

"Or  tliat  tbe  Everlastinj;  had  iint  fixed 
His  cauuu  'gainst  self-slaufibtcr." 

Shaha-pcure :  Vumlet,  i.'J. 

Can'on  La\7.  A  collection  of  eccle- 
siastical laws  which  serve  as  the  rule  of 
church  government.     QScc  below.) 

Canonical.  Canon  is  a  Greek  word, 
and  means  the  iudex  of  a  balance,  hence 
a  rule  or  law.     (See  above.) 

The  sacred  canon  means  the  accepted 
books  of  Holy  Scripture,  which  contain 
the  insj)ired  laws  of  salvation  and  mo- 
ralitj' ;  also  called  The  Canonical  Books. 

Canonical  Dress.  The  costume  worn 
by  the  clergy  according  to  the  direction 
of  the  canon.  Archdeacons,  deans,  and 
bishops  wear  canonical  hats. 

Canonical  Epistles.  The  seven 
catholic  epistles,  i.e.  one  of  James,  two 
of  Peter,  three  of  John,  and  one  of  Jude. 
The  epistles  of  Paul  were  addi'essed  to 
specific  churches  or  to  individuals. 

"The  second  and  third  epistles  of  John  a-e 
certainly  not  catholic.  One  is  to  a  specific  lady 
and  hi'r  children  ;  and  thw  other  is  to  Gains.  If 
the  word  "canonical"  in  this  phrase  means 
appointed  to  he  read  in  church,  then  the  epistles 
of  Paul  are  canonical.  In  fact  there  are  only 
five  canonical  epistles. 

Canonical  Hours.  The  times  with- 
in which  the  .'^acred  offices  may  be  per- 
f  omied.  In  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
they  are  seven — viz..  matins,  prime, 
tierce,  sext,  nones,  vespers,  and  compline. 
Prime,  tierce,  sext,  and  nones  are  the 
first,  third,  sixth,  and  ninth  hours  of  the 
day,  counting  froin  six  in  the  morning. 
Compline  is  a  corruption  of  compleio'  r'linn 
(that  which  completes  the  services  of 
the  day).  The  reason  why  there  are 
seven  canonical  hours  is  that  David  says, 
"Seven  times  a  day  do  I  praise  thee  " 
(Psalm  cxLx.  164). 

14 


V  In  England  the  phrase  means  the 
time  of  the  day  within  which  persons 
can  be  legally  married,  i.e.  from  eight 
in  the  morning  to  three  p.m. 

Canonical  Obedience.  The  obedi- 
ence due  bj^  the  inferior  clergy  to  the 
superior  clergy  set  over  them.  Even 
bishops  owe  canonical  obedience  to  the 
archbishop  of  the  same  jirovince. 

Canonical  Punishments  are  thorc 

punishments  which  the  Church  is  author- 
ised to  inflict. 

Canonicals. 

The  j>oi(rh  on  the  gown  of  an  M.D., 
designed  for  carrying  drugs. 

The  corfoi  a  serjeant-at-law,  designed 
for  concealing  the  tonsure. 

The  lainb-slcin  on  a  B.A.  hood,  in  imi- 
tation of  the  toga  can'dida  of  the  Romans. 

The  sirinf/s  of  an  Oxford  uudergi'adu- 
ate,  to  show  the  wearer  is  still  in  leading 
strings.  At  Cambridge,  however,  the 
strings  are  the  mark  of  a  gi-aduate  who 
has  won  his  ribbons. 

The  tippet  on  a  barrister's  gown, 
meant  for  a  wallet  to  carry  briefs  in. 

The  proctors'  and  pro-proctors'  tippet, 
for  papers — a  sort  of  sabretaclie. 

Cano'pic  Vases.  Used  by  the  Egj^j- 
tian  priests  for  the  viscera  of  bodies 
embalmed,  four  vases  being  provided  for 
each  body.  So  called  from  Cano'pus,  iu 
Egypt,  where  they  were  first  used. 

Cano'pus.  The  Egyptian  god  of 
Avater.  Tlie  Chaldeans  w  orshipped  fire, 
and  sent  all  the  other  gods  a  challenge, 
which  was  accepted  by  a  priest  of  Cano'- 
pus. The  Chaldeans  lighted  a  vast  fire 
round  the  god  Canopus,  when  the  Egyp- 
tian deity  spouted  out  torrents  of  water 
and  quenched  the  fire,  thereby  obtaining 
the  triumi^h  of  water  over  fire. 

Can'opy  properly  means  a  gnat  cur- 
tain. Herod'otus  tells  us  (ii.  95)  that 
the  fishennen  of  the  Nile  used  to  lift 
their  nets  on  a  pole,  and  fonn  thereby 
a  rude  sort  of  tent  under  which  they 
slept  securely,  as  gnats  will  not  pass 
through  the  meshes  of  a  net.  Subse- 
quently the  tester  of  abed  was  so  called, 
and  lastly  the  canopy  borne  over  kings. 
(Greek,  Kuivia^,  a  gnat ;  KiMrmnelov,  a 
gnat-curtain  ;  Latin,  conopeiiiii,  a  gnat- 
curtain.) 

Canossa.  Canossa,  in  the  duchy  of 
Modena,  is  where  (in  the  winter  of 
1076-7)  Kaiser  Heinrich  IV.  went  to 
humble  himself  before  Pope  Gregory 
VII.  (Hildebrand). 


Cant 


210 


Cap 


Has  the  Czar  gone  to  Canossa  ?  Is  he 
about  to  eat  humble  pie  ? 

Wben,  in  November,  1887,  the  Czar  went  to 
Berlin  to  visit  the  Emperor  of  t^ennany,  the 
Standard  asked  in  a  leader,  "  Has  the  Czar  gone 
to  Canossa  ?  " 

Cant.  A  whining  manner  of  sijeech  ; 
class  phraseology,  especially  of  a  reli- 
gious nature  (Latin,  canto,  to  sing, 
whence  chant) .  It  is  often  derived  from 
a  proper  name.  We  are  told  that 
Alexander  and  Andrew  Cant  maintained 
that  all  those  who  refused  the  ''  Cove- 
nant ' '  ought  to  be  excommunicated,  and 
that  those  were  cursed  who  made  use  of 
the  prayer-book.  These  same  Cants,  in 
their  grace  before  meat,  used  to  "pray 
for  all  those  who  suffered  persecution  for 
their  religious  opinions."  {Mcrcurius 
Fiib/ici(s,No.  ix.,l66l.) 

"  The  proper  name  cannot  have  given 
us  the  noun  aud  verb,  as  they  were  in 
familiar  use  certainly  in  the  time  of  Ben 
Jonson,  signifying  "professional slang," 
and  "to  use  professional  slang." 

"The  doctor  here, 
When  he  discourses  of  dissection, 
Of  vena  cava  and  of  vena  porta  .... 
What  does  he  do  but  cant  ?    Or  if  he  run 
To  his  judicial  astrology, 
And  trowl  out  the  trine,  the  quartile,  and  the 

Kcrtile, 
Does  he  not  cant?" 
Ben  Jon6:on  (1574— 1«)7)  ;  Andrew  Cant  died  10G4. 

Cantabrian   Surge.      The    Bay    of 

Biscay.  So  called  from  the  Cantabri  who 
dwelt  about  the  Biscayan  shore.  Sue- 
tonius tells  us  that  a  thvmderbolt  fell  in 
the  Cantabrian  Lake  (Spain)  "  in  which 
twelve  axes  were  found."    {O'alba,  viii.) 

"She  her  thundering  army  leads 
To  Calpe  [(Gibraltar]  ....  or  the  rough 
Cantabrian  Surge." 

Akcnside:  Hymn  to  the  Xaiades. 

Cantate  Sunday.  Fourth  Sunday 
after  Easter.  So  called  from  the  first 
word  of  the  introit  of  the  mass  :  "  Sing 
to  the  Lord."  Similarly  "  Lietare 
Sunday"  (the  fourth  after  Lent)  is  so 
called  from  the  first  word  of  the  mass. 

Canteen'  means  properly  a  wine- 
cellar.  Then  a  refreshment-house  in  a 
barrack  for  the  use  of  the  soldiers.  Then 
a  vessel,  holding  about  tlu-ee  pints,  for 
the  use  of  soldiers  on  the  march.  (Italian, 
caniiiia,  a  cellar.) 

Canterbury.  Can  tcrhury  is  the  h  ighcr 
rack,  hitt  H'iiic/icster  the  better  maiu/er. 
Canterbury  is  the  higher  see  in  rank, 
but  Winchester  the  one  which  produces 
the  most  money,  This  was  the  reply  of 
William  Edington,  Bishop  of  Winchester, 
when  offered  the  archbishopric  of  Can- 
terbury (1366).  Now  Canterbury  is 
£15,000  a  year,  and  Winchester  £6,500. 


Canterbury  Tales.  Chaucer  sup- 
posed that  he  was  in  company  with  a 
party  of  pilgrims  going  to  Canterbury  to 
pay  their  devotions  at  the  shrine  of 
Thomas  a  Becket.  The  party  assembled 
at  an  inn  in  Southwark,  called  the 
Tabard,  aud  there  agreed  to  tell  one  tale 
each,  both  in  going  and  returning.  He 
who  told  the  best  tale  was  to  be  treated 
with  a  supper  ou  the  homeward  journey. 
The  work  is  incomplete,  and  we  have 
none  of  the  tales  told  on  the  way  home. 

A  Canterburij  'Tale.  A  cock-and-bull 
story  ;  a  romance.  So  called  from  Chau- 
cer's Cantcrbary  Tales. 

Canting  Crew(Thc).  Beggars, gip- 
sies, and  thieves,  who  use  what  is  called 
the  canting  lingo. 

Canucks.  The  Canadians.  So  called 
in  the  United  States  of  America. 

Canvas  means  cloth  made  of  hemp. 
To  canvas  a  subject  is  to  strain  it  through 
a  hemp  strainer,  to  sift  it ;  and  to  canvass 
a  borough  is  to  sift  the  votes.  (Latin, 
can'nabls,  hemp.) 

Canvas  City  {A).  A  military  en- 
campment. 

"Tbe(;r;in(l  :\[Mster  assented,  and  they  pro- 
ceeded a<-onrdini,'ly,  ....  avoiding  the  most 
inhaliitiMlinutsof  the  canvas  city  ."—Sir  ir.  Hcott: 
'file  Talisman,  chap.  x. 

"In  1S51,  during  the  gold  rush,  a  town  of  tents, 
known  as  Canvas  Town,  rose  into  being  on  the 
St.  Kilda  Road,  Melbourne.  Several  thousand 
inhabitants  lived  in  this  temporary  settlement, 
which  was  laid  out  in  streets  and  lasted  for 
several  months." — Cities  of  the  World;  Melbourne. 

Ca'ora.  A  river,  on  the  banks  of 
^^•hich  are  a  people  whose  heads  grow 
beneath  their  shoulders.  Their  eyes  are 
in  their  shoulders,  and  their  mouths  in 
the  middle  of  then-  breasts.  (Ilaldugt  : 
Voyages,  1598.)  Raleigh,  hihis Descrip- 
tion of  Guiana,  gives  a  similar  account 
of  a  race  of  men.     {See  Blemmyes.) 

"  The  Anthropophagi  and  men  whose  heads 
Do  grow  beneath  their  shoulders." 

Sliakcspcare :  Othello,  i.  3. 

Cap. 

Slack  cap.    (See  jwge  140,  Black  Cap.) 

Cater  cap.  A  square  cap  or  mortar- 
board.    (French,  quart icr.) 

College  cap.  A  trencher  like  the  caps 
worn  at  the  English  Universities  by 
students  and  bachelors  of  art,  doctors  of 
divinity,  etc. 

Tool's  cap.  A  cylindrical  cap  with 
feather  and  bells,  such  as  Hcensed  Fools 
used  to  wear. 

Forked  cap.  A  bishop's  mitre.  For 
the  paper  so  called,  see  Foolscap. 


Cap 


211 


Cap 


John  Knox  cap  (A).  A  cap  made  of 
black  silk  velvet. 

"A  cap  of  black  silk  velvet,  after  the  Jcihu 
Knox  fasLion." — Edinburgh  University  Calendar. 

Monmouth  cap  {A).    {See  Monmouth.) 

Phn/giancap  (A).  Capof  liberty  (-7.  r.). 

Sroich  cap.  A  cloth  cap  worn  com- 
monly iu  Scotland. 

Cap  and  bells.  The  insignia  of  a  pro- 
fessional fool  or  jester. 

A  feather  in  one''s  cap.  An  achievement 
to  be  proud  of  ;  something  creditable. 

Sqaare  cap.  A  trencher  or  "mortar- 
board," like  the  University  cap. 

Htatute  cap.  A  ■vvoolleu  caj)  ordered 
by  statute  to  be  worn  on  holidaj's  by  all 
citizens  for  the  benefit  of  the  woollen 
trade.  To  a  similar  end,  persons  were 
obliged  to  be  buried  at  death  in  flannel. 

"  Well,  better  wits  have  worn  plain  statute 
caps." — Shakespeare  ;  Lore's  Labour  Lost,  v. :!. 

Trencher  cap,  or  mortar-board.  A 
cap  with  a  sqiiare  board,  generally 
covered  with  black  cloth. 

/  maat  put  on  nuj  considering  cap.  I 
must  think  about  the  matter  before  I 
give  a  final  answer.  The  allusion  is  to 
a  conjurer's  cap. 

If  the  cap  Jits,  wear  it.  If  the  remark 
applies  to  you,  apply  it  to  yourself. 
Hats  and  caps  diiler  very  slightly  in 
size  and  appearance,  but  everyone  knows 
his  own  when  he  f)uts  it  on. 

Setting  her  cap  at  him.  Trying  to 
catch  him  for  a  sweetheart  or  a  husband. 
The  lady  j)uts  on  the  most  becoming  of 
her  caps,  to  attract  the  attention  and 
admiration  of  the  favoured  gentleman. 

To  gain  the  cap.     To  obtain  a  bow 
from  another  out  of  respect. 
"  Such  gains  the  cap  of  him  that  makes  them  fine, 
But  keeps  his  book  uncrossed." 

Shakespeare :  Cynibeline,  in.  3. 

To  pull  caps.  To  quarrel  like  two 
women,  who  pull  each  other's  caps. 

Four  cap  is  all  on  one  side.  The 
French  have  the  phrase  Jlcffre  son 
bonnet  de  f ravers,  meaning  "  to  be  iu  an 
ill-humour."  M.  Hilaire  le  Gai  ex- 
plains it  thus  :  "  Laplupart  des  tapa gears 
d''  profession  portent  ordinairement  le 
chapi'aH  sxr  roreille.'"  It  is  quite  certain 
that  workmen,  when  they  are  bothered, 
push  their  cap  on  one  side  of  the  head, 
generally  over  the  right  ear,  because  the 
1  ight  hand  is  occupied. 

Cap  (the  verb) . 

/  cap  to  that,  i.e.  assent  to  it.  The 
allusion  is  to  a  custom  observed  in  France 
amongst  the  judges  in  deUberation. 
Those  who  assent  to  the  opinion  stated 
by  any  of  the  bench  signify  it  by  lifting 
their  toque  from  their  heads. 


To  cap.     To  excel. 

"Well,  that  caps  the  globe."— C.  Bronte:  Jane 
Eijre. 

Cap  Verses  (To).  Having  the  metre 
fixed  and  the  last  letter  of  the  previous 
line  given,  to  add  a  verse  beginning  with 
the  given  letter  (of  the  same  metre  or 
not,  according  to  prearraugenieut)  thus : 

English. 
The  way  was  long,  the  wind  was  cold  (D). 
Dogs  with  their  tongue.-!  their  woundsdo  heaUL). 
Like  words  congealed  in  northern  air  (\i). 
Retrions  Cie-sar  never  knew  tW). 
With  alia  poet's  ecstasy  (Yi. 
You  may  deride  my  awkward  pace,  etc.  etc. 

Latin. 
Nil  pictis  timidus  navita  puppibus  (SI. 
Sunt  quos  currlculo  pulverem  Olyuipicum  (M). 
Myrtoum  pavidns  nauta  secet  mareiE'. 
Est  >iui  nee  veteri.s  porula  Massii-i  iTJ 
Ilium,  si  proprio  condidit  horreo  (O). 
O,  et  presidium  ....  {as  long  as  yon  plcase^. 

V  It  would  make  a  Christmas  game 
to  cap  proper  names  :  as  Plato,  Otway, 
Young,  Goldsmith,  etc. ,  or  to  cap  pro- 
verbs, as :  "  Eome  was  not  built  in  a 
day  "  ;  "  Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth  "  ; 
"  Hunger  is  the  best  sauce  "  ;  "  Example 
is  better  than  precept "  ;  "  Time  and  tide 
wait  for  no  man"  ;  etc. 

Cap  and  Bells.  Wearing  the  cap 
and  bells.  Said  of  a  person  who  is  the 
butt  of  the  company,  or  one  who  excites 
laughter  at  his  own  expense.  The  re- 
ference is  to  licensed  jesters  fonnerly 
attached  to  noblemen's  establishments. 
Their  headgear  was  a  cap  with  bells. 

"  One  is  bound  to  spL^ik  the  truth  ....  whether 
he  mounts  the  cap  and  bells  or  a  shovel  hat  [like 
a  \ns\n)\<1."— Thackeray. 

Cap  and  Feather  Days.  The  time 
of  childliood. 

'•  Here  I  was  got  into  the  scenes  of  my  cap-aud- 
feather  days."— CoftteW. 

Cap  and  Gown.  The  full  academical 
costume  of  a  university  student,  tutor, 
or  master,  worn  at  lectures,  examina- 
tions, and  after  "  hall"  (dinner). 

"  Is  it  a  cap  and  gown  affair  ?  ''—C.  Bcde :  Verdant 
Greni. 

Cap  in  Hand.  Submissively.  To 
wait  on  a  man  cap  in  hand  is  to  wait 
on  him  like  a  servant,  ready  to  do  his 
bidding. 

Cap  of  Fools   (The).     The   chief  or 

foremost    fool ;     one    that    exceeds    all 

others  iu  folly. 

"  Thou  art  the  cap  of  all  the  fools  alive." 

Shakespeare:  Timon  of  Athens,  iv.  3. 

Cap  of  Liberty.  When  a  slave  was 
manumitted  by  tlie  Romans,  a  small 
red  cloth  cap,  called  pil'eus,  was  placed 
on  his  head.  As  soon  as  this  was  done, 
he  was  tenned  liberti'nus  (a  freedman), 
and  his  name  was  registered  in  the  city 


Cap 


212 


Capite  Censi 


tribes.  Wheu  Saturni'nus,  iu  263,  pos- 
sessed himself  of  the  capitol,  he  hoisted 
a  cap  on  the  top  of  his  spear,  to  indicate 
that  all  slaves  who  joined  his  standard 
should  be  free.  When  Ma'rius  incited 
the  slaves  to  take  up  anns  against  Sylla, 
he  employed  the  same  symbol ;  and 
when  Ctesar  was  murdered,  the  con- 
spirators marched  forth  in  a  body,  with 
a  caj)  elevated  on  a.  spear,  in  token  of 
liberty.     {See  Liberty.) 

Cap    of  Maintenance.     A  cap  of 

dignity  anciently  belonging  to  the  rank 
of  duke  ;  the  fur  cap  of  the  Lord  Mayor 
of  Loudon,  worn  on  days  of  state ;  a  cap 
carried  before  the  British  sovereigns  at 
their  coronation.  Maintenance  here 
means  defence. 

Cap  of  Time.  T/ici/  nrar  themselres 
ill  tlic  cap  of  tune.  Use  more  ceremony, 
says  Parolles,  for  these  lords  do  "wear 
themselves  in  the  cap  of  time,"  i.e.  these 
lords  are  the  favours  and  jewels  worn 
ill  the  cap  of  the  time  being,  and  have 
the  greatest  influence.  In  the  cap  of 
time  being,  they  are  the  very  jewels, 
and  most  honoured.  {Shakespedrc  :  AlPs 
Well,  etc.,  ii.  1.) 

Cap-acquaintance  {A),  now  called 
a  bowiug  acquaintance.  One  just  suf- 
ficiently known  to  bow  to. 

Cap-money.  Money  collected  in  a 
caj)  or  hat ;  hence  an  improvised  col- 
lection. 

Cap-a-pie.  The  general  etymologj' 
is  the  French  cap  a  pied,  but  the  French 
phrase  is  de  jjied  en  cap. 

"  Armed  at  all  points  exactly  cap-a-pie." 

Shakespeare :  HamJet,  i.  2. 
"  I  am  courtier,  cap-a-ne." 

Shakespeare :  Winter's  Tale,  iv.  3. 

**  We  are  told  that  cap  d  jne  is  Old 
French,  but  it  would  be  desirable  to 
give  a  quotation  from  some  old  French 
author  to  verify  this  assertion.  I  have 
hunted  iu  vain  for  the  purpose.  Again, 
is  pie  Old  French  for  pied  ?  This  is  not 
a  usual  change.  The  usual  change 
would  be  pied  into  pie.  The  Latin 
might  be  De  capite  ad  pedem. 

Capfull  of  Wind.  Olaus  Magnus 
tells  us  that  Eric,  King  of  Sweden,  was 
so  familiar  with  evil  sjiirits  that  what 
way  soever  he  turned  his  cap  the  wind 
would  blow,  and  for  this  he  was  called 
Wiiidi/  Cap.  The  Laplanders  drove  a 
profitable  trade  in  selling  winds ;  but, 
even  so  late  as  1814,  Bessie  Millie,  of 
Pomo'na  (Orkney  Islands),  helped  out 
her  living  by  selliag  favourable  winds  to 


mariners  for  the  small  sum  of  sixpence. 
(iSW;  Mont  St.  Michel.) 

Cape.  Spirit  of  the  Cape.  {See 
page  14,  col.  1,  Adamastor.) 

Cape  of  Storms.     {See  Storms.  ) 

Capel  Court.  A  speculation  in  stocks 
of  such  magnitude  as  to  affect  the  money 
market.  Capel  Court  is  the  name  of  tho 
l)lac6  in  London  where  transactions  iu 
stocks  are  carried  on. 

Caper.  The  weather  is  so  foul  not 
even  a  caper  xeoald  venture  out.  A  Manx 
proverb.  A  caper  is  a  fishemian  of  Cape 
Clear  in  Ireland,  who  will  ventui'e  out 
iu  almost  any  weather. 

Caper  Merchant.  A  dancing-master 
who  cuts  "capers."     {See  Cut  Capers.) 

Capet  {Cap-pa I/).  Hugues,  the  founder 
of  the  French  monarchy,  was  surnamed 
Cap'ctus  (clothed  with  a  capot  or  monk's 
hood),  because  he  always  wore  a  clerical 
costume  as  abbot  of  St.  Martin  de  Tours. 
This  was  considered  the  family  name  of 
the  kings  of  France  ;  hence,  Louis  XVI. 
was  arraigned  before  the  National  Con- 
vention under  the  nam.e  of  Louis  Capet. 

Capital.  Money  or  money's  worth 
available  for  production. 

"  His  capital  is  continually  going  from  bim  [the 
merchant]  in  some  sbape,  and  returning  to  him 
iu  another."— -IridHi  Smith :  Wealth  of  Xations, 
vol.  i.  book  ii.  chap.  i.  i).  276. 

Active  capital.  Eeady  money  or  pro- 
perty readily  convertible  into  it. 

Circalatiiig  capital.  Wages,  or  raw 
material.  This  sort  of  capital  is  not 
available  a  second  time  for  the  same 
purpose. 

Fixed  capital.  Land,  buildings,  and 
machinery,  which  are  only  gradually 
consumed. 

Political  capital  is  something  employed 
to  serve  a  political  jjurpose.  Thus,  the 
Whigs  make  political  capital  out  of  the 
eiTors  of  the  Tories,  and  vice  versa. 

"  He  tried  to  make  capital  out  of  bis  rival's  dis- 
comtiture."— 77;e  Times. 

Capital  Fellow  {A).  A  stock- 
jobber; in  French  called  Un  Capitaine, 
par  allusion  aux  capitaux  sur  lesqxels  on 
agiote  hahitucllement.  A  good-tempered, 
jovial,  and  generous  person. 

Capitals.  To  speah  in  capitals.  To 
emphasise  certain  words  with  great 
stress.  Certain  nouns  spelt  with  a 
capital  letter  are  meant  to  be  emphatic 
and  distinctive. 

Cap'ite  Censi.  The  lowest  rank  of 
Roman  citizens ;  so  called  because  they 


Capittilars 


213 


Carabas 


were  counted  simply  by  the  poll,  as  tliey 
had  uo  taxable  property. 

Capit'ulars.  The  laws  of  the  first 
two  dynasties  of  France  were  so  called, 
because  they  were  divided  into  chapters. 
(French,  cajjitHlairc:) 

Capon.  Called  a  fish  out  of  the  coop 
by  those  friars  who  wished  to  evade  the 
Friday  fast  by  eating  chickens  instead 
of  fish.     {See  Yaemouth.  ) 

Capon  {A).     A  castrated  cock. 
A  Crairs  capon.     A  dried  haddock. 
A  Secern  capon.     A  sole. 
A  Yarinoaih  capon.     A  red  herring. 
*,*  We  also  sometimes  hear  of  a  Glas- 
gow cajjon,  a  salt  herring. 

Capon  (^i).  A  love-letter.  In  French, 
poidet  means  not  only  a  chicken  but  aUo 
a  love-letter,  or  a  sheet  of  note-paper. 
Thus  Heui'i  IV.,  consulting  with  Sully 
about  his  marriage,  says:  "My  niece 
of  Guise  would  please  me  best,  though 
report  says  maliciously  that  she  loves 
poulets  iu  paper  better  than  in  a  frica- 
see. " 

"Bciyet  .  .  break  up  this  capon  {i.e.  open  this 
love-letter]."— )S7i(i/.'espe(tre;  Luve's  Labour's  Lout, 
iv.  1. 

Cap'ricorn.  Called  by  Thomson,  in 
his  JFinter,  "  the  centaur  archer. "  An- 
ciently, the  winter  solstice  occurred  on 
the  entry  of  the  sun  into  Capricorn  ; 
but  the  stars,  having  advanced  a  whole 
sign  to  the  east,  the  winter  solstice  now 
falls  at  the  sun's  entrance  into  Sagit- 
tarius (the  centaur  archer),  so  that  the 
poet  is  strictly  right,  though  we  vul- 
garly retain  the  ancient  classical  manner 
of  speaking.  Capricornus  is  the  tentli, 
or,  strictly  speaking,  the  eleventh  sign 
of  the  zodiac.     (Dec.  21 -Jan.  20.) 

V  According  to  classic  mythology, 
Capricorn  was  Pan,  who,  from  fear  of 
the  great  Typhon,  changed  himself  into 
a  goat,  and  was  made  by  Jupiter  one  of 
the  signs  of  the  zodiac. 

Captain.  Capitano  del  Popolo,  i.e. 
Garibaldi  (1807-1882). 

The  Great  (Japta'in  {el  gran  capita' no). 
Gonzalvo  di  Cor'dova  (1453-1515.) 

Manuel  Comue'nus  of  Treb'izond 
(1120,  1143-1180). 

Captain  Cauf's  Tail.  The  com- 
mander-in-chief of  the  mummers  of 
Plough  Monday. 

Captain  Copperthorne's  Crew.  All 

masters  and  no  men. 

Captain  Podd.  A  showman.  So 
called  from  "  Captain  "  Podd,  a  famous 


puppet-showman  iu   the    time   of   Ben 
Jonson. 

Captain  StiflF.  To  come  Captain  Stiff 
ocer  one.  To  treat  one  with  cold  form- 
ality. 

"1  shouldn't  quite  come  Captain  StiH  over 
bini."— ,s'.  Warreti:  Ten  Thousand  a  icai: 

Captious.  Fallacious,  deceitful ;  now 
it  means  ill-tempered,  carping.     (Latin, 

capiio'sas.) 

"  I  know  I  love  in  vtiiii,  strive  aL'aiiisl  hnpo  ; 
Yet  in  this  captious  and  intenihli/  sieve 
I  still  pour  in  tlie  wairrs  of  mv  Icae." 
{^hakf.-^iieure:  All's  Will  that  Ends  Welt,  i.  3. 

Cap'ua.  Capua  corrupted  Ilannihal. 
Luxury  and  self-indulgence  will  ruin 
anyone.  Hannibal  was  everywhere  vic- 
torious over  the  Romans  till  he  took  up 
his  winter  quarters  at  Capua,  the  most 
luxurious  city  of  Italy.  When  he  left 
Capua  his  star  began  to  wane,  and,  ere 
long,  Carthage  was  in  ruins  and  himself 
an  exile. 

Capua  was  the  Cannce  of  Ramiibnl.  As 
the  battle  of  Cannce  was  most  disastrous 
to  the  Roman  army,  so  was  the  luxury 
of  Capua  to  Hannibal's  annj*.  We  have 
a  modern  adaptation  to  this  proverb : 
"Moscow  was  the  Austerlitz  of  Napo- 
leon." 

Capuchin.  A  friar  of  the  order  of 
St.  Francis,  of  the  new  rule  of  1528 ; 
so  called  from  their  "  cap'uce "  or 
pointed  cowl. 

Cap'ulet.  A  noble  house  in  Vero'na, 
the  rival  of  that  of  Mon'tague  (3  syl.) ; 
Juliet  is  of  the  former,  and  Romeo  of 
the  latter.  Lady  Capulet  is  the  beau- 
ideal  of  a  jiroud  Italian  matron  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  The  expression  so 
familiar,  "  the  tomb  of  all  the  Capulets," 
is  from  Burke.  {Shakespeare :  Romeo 
and  Juliet.) 

Caput  Mor'tuum.  Latin  for  head 
of  the  dead,  used  by  the  old  chemists  to 
designate  the  residuum  of  chemicals, 
when  all  their  volatile  matters  had  es- 
caped. Anything  from  which  all  that 
rendered  it  valuable  has  been  taken 
away.  Thus,  a  learned  scholar  jiara- 
lysed  is  a  mere  caput  mortinim  of  his 
fonuer  self.  The  French  Directory, 
towards  its  close,  was  a  mere  caput 
nwrtuHin  of  a  governing  body. 

Caqueux.  A  sort  of  gipsy  race  in 
Brittany,  similar  to  the  Cagots  of  Gas- 
cony,  and  Colliberts  of  Poitou. 

Car'abas.  lie  is  a  Marquis  of  Cara- 
bas. A  fossil  nobleman,  of  unbounded 
pretensions  and  vanity,  who  would  fain 
restore  the  slavish  foolery  of  the  reigu 


Caracalla 


2U 


Carcass 


>  of  Louis  XrV. ;  one  with  Fortunatus's 
purse,  which  was  never  empty.  The 
character  is  taken  from  Perrault's  tale 
of  F/fss  in  Boots. 

"  Pretres  iiue  nous  vengeons 
Levez  la  dime  et  panageuns  ; 
Et  toi,  peuple  animal, 
Porte  eneor  le  bat  feodal.  .  .  . 
Cliapeau  bas  !  Cbapeau  bas  ! 
Ghiire  au  marquis  de  Carabas  ! " 

Blranger,  ISlfi. 

Caracalla  \long-mantIe].  Anre'lius 
Autoni'nus  was  so  called  because  he 
adopted  the  Gaulish  caracalla  in  prefer- 
ence to  the  Roman  toga.  It  was  a  large, 
close-fitting,  hooded  mantle,  reaching 
to  the  heels,  and  slit  uj)  before  and 
behind  to  the  waist.  Aure'lius  was 
himself  bom  in  Gaul,  called  Caracal  in 
Ossian.     {Sec  Cuetmantle.) 

Carac'ci  (pron.  Kar  -  rah' -  che). 
Founder  of  the  eclectic  school  in  Italy. 
Luis  and  his  two  cousins  Augustin  and 
Annibale  founded  the  school  called  In- 
cammina't'i  (progressive),  which  had  for 
its  chief  principle  the  strict  observance 
of  natm-e.  Luis  (1554-1619),  Augustin 
(1558-1601),  Annibale  (1560-1609). 

Tlie  Caracci  of  France.  Jean  Jouvenet, 
who  was  paralysed  on  the  right  side,  and 
painted  with  his  left  hand.    (1647-1707.) 

The  Aiuitlmlc  Caracci  of  the  Hcleciic 
School.  Bernardi'uo  Campi,  the  Italian, 
is  so  called  by  Lauzi  (1522-1590). 

Carack  or  C'arrack.  A  ship  of  gi-eat 
bulk,  constructed  to  carry  heavy  freights. 
(Spanish,  caraca.) 

'•The  rich-Iailen  carack  bound  to  distant  shores." 
I'oUok :  Course  of  Time,  Ixiok  vii.  line  60. 

Carad'oc.  A  Knight  of  the  Round 
Table,  noted  for  being  the  husband  of 
the  only  lady  in  the  queen's  train  who 
could  wear  "the  mantle  of  matrimonial 
fidelity."  Also  in  history,  the  British 
chief  whom  the  Romans  called  Carac- 
tacus. 

Caraites.  A  religious  sect  among 
the  Jews,  who  rigidly  adhered  to  the 
words  and  letters  of  Scripture,  regard- 
less of  metaphor,  etc.  Of  course,  they 
rejected  the  rabbinical  interpretations 
and  the  Cab'ala.  The  word  is  derived 
from  Cara'im,  equivalent  to  scriptuntrii 
(textualists).     Pronounce  Carry -ites. 

Caran  D'Ache.  The  pseudonym  of 
M.  Emanuel  Poirie,  the  French  cari- 
caturist. 

Carat  of  Gold.  So  called  from  the 
carat  bean,  or  seed  of  the  locust  tree, 
formerly  employed  in  weighing  gold  and 
silver.  Hence  the  expressions  "  22 
carats    finej'    "  18    carats   fine,"    etc., 


meaning  that  out  of  24  parts,  22  or  18 
are  gold,  and  the  rest  alloy. 

"  Here's  llie  note 
How  nnuli  your  chain  weighs   to   the   utmost 
curat." 

Shakespeare  :  Comedy  of  Errors,  iv.  1. 

Caraway.  Latin,  carxw,  from  Caria 
in  Asia  Minor,  whence  the  seeds  were 
imported. 

"Xay,  you  shall  see  my  onlKird,  where  in  an 
arbour  we  will  eat  a  last  year's  pivpni  nf  luy  own 
gr:illin,tr,  with  a  dish  of  carawavs."— Wi"/.(>;V((rf  ; 
!•  IJtitrii  IV.,  V.  3  (Justice  Shallow  tn  Falstaff). 

Carbineer'  or  Carabineer.  Pi'operly 
a  skirmisher  or  light  horseman,  from  the 
Arabic  carabine.  A  carbine  is  the  light 
musket  used  by  cavalry  soldiers. 

"  He  .  . .  left  tlie  Rhinegrave,  with  his  company 
of  mounted  carliineers,  to  guard  the  passage."^ 
Motley ;  Dutch  Republic  (.vol.  i.  part  i.  chap.  ii. 
p.  irsi). 

Carbona'do.  A  chop  ;  nnnce  meat. 
Strictly  si^eaking,  a  carbonado  is  a  piece 
of  meat  cut  crosswise  for  the  gi'idirou. 
(Latin,  carbo,  a  coal.) 

"  If  he  do  come  in  my  w.ay,  so  ;  if  he  do  not— if 
I  come  in  his  willingly,  let  bim  make  a  carbonado 
of  me."—Hhale>-pcare:  1  Henry  lY.,  v.  3. 

Carbona'ri  means  charcoal-burners, 
a  name  assumed  by  a  secret  political 
society  in  Italy  (organised  1808-1814). 
Their  place  of  muster  they  called  a 
"  hut ;"  its  inside,  "  the  jDlace  for  selling 
charcoal ;"  and  the  outside,  the  "  forest." 
Their  jjolitical  opponents  they  called 
"  wolves."  Their  object  was  to  convert 
the  kingdom  of  Naples  into  a  republic. 
In  the  singular  number,  Carbonaro.  {See 
Chaebonnerie  . ) 

Carbuncle  of  Ward  Hill  {The). 
A  mysterious  carbuncle  visible  enough 
to  those  who  stand  at  the  foot  of  the 
hill  in  May,  June  or  July  ;  but  never 
beheld  by  anyone  who  has  succeeded  in 
reaching  the  hill  top. 

"  I  have  distinguished,  among  the  dark  rocks, 
that  wonderful  carljuucle,whicla  gleams  ruddy  as 
a  furnace  to  them  who  view  it  from  beneath,  but 
has  ever  become  invisible  to  him  whose  daring 
foot  has  scaled  the  precipice  from  which  it  darts 
its  splendour."— .S('r  11'.  Scott :  The  Pirate,  chap. 
xix. 

'.*  Dr.  Wallace  thinks  it  is  water 
trickling  from  a  rock,  and  reddened  by 
the  sun. 

Car'canet.  A  small  chain  of  jewels 
for  the  neck.  (French,  carcan,  an  iron 
collar.) 

"  Like  captain  jewels  in  a  carcanet." 

Shakespeare :  Souiictfi. 

Car'cass.  The  shell  of  a  house  before 
the  floors  are  laid  and  walls  plastered ; 
the  skeleton  of  a  ship,  a  wreck,  etc. 
The  body  of  a  dead  animal,  so  called 
from  the  Latin  caro-cassa  (lifeless  flesh). 
(French,  carcasse.) 
"  The  Goodwins,  I  think  they  call  the  place  ;  a 


Carcasses 


215 


Cards 


very  dangerous  flat  and  fatal,  where  the  carcases 
cif  many  a  tall  ship  lie  buried."— iSfca/rfsped re; 
Merchant  i<f  Viiiice,  iii.  1. 

Car'casses.  Shells  with  three  fuze- 
holes.  They  are  projected  from  mortars 
((/.r.),  howitzers  ('/.'''•),  and  guns.  They 
will  burn  furiously  for  eight  or  ten 
minutes,  do  not  burst  like  shells,  but  the 
flames,  rushing  from  the  three  holes,  set 
on  fire  everything  within  their  iuiiuence. 
'■  Cbarlestown,  .  .  .  having  been  fired  by  a  car- 
cass from  I'oi'p's  Hill,  sent  up  dense  columns  of 
smoke."— icssi/iy  ;  Unitecl  tstutes. 

Card. 

Thafs  the  card.  The  right  thing  ;  the 
ticket.  The  reference  is  to  tickets  of 
admission,  cards  of  the  races,  and  f)ro- 
grammes. 

"  los.  is  about  the  card."— il^oiy/ioc ;  London 
Labour,  etc. 

A  queer  card.  An  eccentric  person, 
"indilfereut  honest."  A  difficult  lead 
in  cards  to  play  to. 

A  knowiiu/  card.  A  .sharp  fellow,  next 
door  to  a  sharper.  The  allusion  is  to 
card-sharpers  and  their  tricks. 

"  Whose  great  aim  it  was  to  be  considered  a 
knowing  c-avA."— Dickens :  Slcetchcf!,  etc. 

A  great  card.  A  big  wig ;  the  boss  of 
the  season ;  a  person  of  note.  A  big 
card. 

A  leadbig  card.  A  star  actor.  A 
person  leads  from  his  strongest  suit. 

A  loose  card.  A  worthless  fellow  who 
lives  on  the  loose. 

"A  loose  card  is  a  card  of  no  value,  and,  con- 
se(iuently,  the  properest  to  throw  away."— i/oj/Ze  : 
Games,  tic. 

A  sare  card.  A  person  one  can  fully 
depend  on  ;  a  person  sure  to  command 
success.  A  project  to  be  certainly  de- 
pended on.  As  a  winning  card  in  one's 
hand. 

He  is  the  card  of  our  house.  The  man 
of  mark,  the  most  distingue.  Osric  tells 
Hamlet  that  Laer'tes  is  "the  card  and 
calendar  of  gentry  "  (v.  2).  The  card  is 
a  card  of  a  compass,  containing  all  its 
points.  Laertes  is  the  card  of  gentrj-,  in 
whom  may  be  seen  all  its  points.  We 
also  say  "a  queer  card,"  meaning  an 
odd  fish. 

That  u-as  nuj  best  tru»ip  card.  My 
best  chance.  The  allusion  is  to  loo, 
whist,  and  other  games  played  with 
cards. 

To  play  one''s  best  card.  To  do  that 
which  one  hopes  is  most  likely  to  secure 
success. 

To  speak  bg  the  card.  To  speak  by  the 
book,  be  as  precise  as  a  map  or  book. 
A  merchant's  expression.  The  card  is 
the  document  in  writing  containing  the 
agreements  made  between  a  merchant 
and  the  captain  of  a  vessel.     Sometimes 


the  owner  binds  himself,  ship,  tackle, 
and  furniture  for  due  perfonnance,  and 
the  captain  is  bound  to  deliver  the  cargo 
committed  to  him  in  good  condition.  To 
speak  by  the  card  is  to  speak  according 
to  the  indentures  or  written  instructions. 
In  some  cases  the  reference  is  to  the 
card  of  a  mariner's  compass. 

"  Law  ...  is  the  card  to  guide  the  world  by."  — 
Hooker :  Ecc.  Pol.,  part  ii.  sec.  .5. 

'■  We  must  speak  by  the  card,  or  equivocation 
will  undo  us."— Shakespeare :  Uaiulet,  v.  1. 

Cards. 

It  is  said  that  there  never  was  a  good 
hand  of  cards  containing  four  clubs. 
Such  a  hand  is  called  "  The  Devil's 
Four-poster." 

Lieuben,  a  German  lunatic,  bet  that 
he  would  succeed  in  turning  uji  a  pack 
of  cards  in  a  certain  order  stated  in  a 
written  agreement.  He  turned  and 
turned  the  cards  ten  hours  a  day  for 
twenty  years ;  and  repeated  the  opera- 
tion 4,246,028  times,  when  at  last  he 
succeeded. 

In  Spain,  spades  used  to  he  columbines  ; 
clubs,  rabbits;  diamonds,  pinks;  and 
hearts,  roses.  The  j)resent  name  for 
spades  is  espados  (swords) ;  of  clubs, 
bastos  (cudgels) ;  of  diamonds,  dineros 
(square  pieces  of  money  used  for  paying 
wages) ;  of  hearts,  copas  (chalices). 

The  French  for  spades  is  pique  (pike- 
men  or  soldiers) ;  for  clubs,  triple  (clovei', 
or  husbandmen);  of  diamonds,  carreaux 
(building  tiles,  or  artisans)  ;  of  hearts, 
chceur  (choir-men,  or  ecclesiastics). 

The  English  spades  is  the  French  form 
of  a  pike,  and  the  Spanish  name  ;  the 
clubs  is  the  French  trefoil,  and  the 
Spanish  name  ;  the  hearts  is  a  corruption 
of  ckocur  into  cceur.     {See  Vieege.) 

Court  cards.  So  called  because  of  theu- 
heraldic  devices.  The  king  of  clubs 
originally  represented  the  arms  of  the 
Pope  ;  of  spades,  the  King  of  France ; 
of  diamonds,  the  King  of  Spain  ;  and  of 
hearts,  the  King  of  England.  The 
French  kings  in  cards  are  called  David 
(spades),  Alexander  (clubs),  Ctesar  (dia- 
monds), and  Charles  (hearts) — repre- 
senting the  Jewish,  Greek,  Roman,  and 
Frankish  empires.  The  queens  or  dames 
are  Argine— (.^.  Juno  (hearts),  Judith 
(clubs),  Rachel  (diamonds),  and  Pallas 
(spades)  —  representing  royalty,  forti- 
tude, piet}',  and  wisdom.  They  were 
likenesses  of  Marie  d'Anjou,  the  queen 
of  Charles  VII.  ;  Isabeau,  the  queen- 
mother  ;  Agnes  Sorel,  the  king's  mis- 
tress ;  and  Joan  d'Arc,  the  dame  of 
spades,  or  war. 

He  felt  that  he  held  the  cards  in  his  own 
hands.     That  he  had  the  whip-end  of 


Cardinal 


216 


Carlovingian 


the  stick  ;  that  lie  had  tlie  upiiei-  haud, 
and  could  do  as  he  liked.  The  allusiou 
is  to  games  played  with  cards,  such  as 
whist. 

lie  phnjcd  lits  curds  iirll.  He  acted 
judiciously  and  skilfully,  like  a  whist- 
player  who  plays  his  haud  with  judg- 
ment. To  jilay  one's  cards  badhj  is  to 
manage  a  project  unskilfully. 

The  cardx  arc  iji  iin/  /uiinh.  I  hold  the 
disposal  of  events  which  will  secure  suc- 
cess.    The  allusion  is  ob\'ious. 

"The  Viti'lli  busied  ;it  Arezzo  ;  the  Orsiui  ini- 
t.auim  the  Fi-t'iith  ;  the  war  of  Xaples  iiimiiueiit ; 
—the  cards  are  in  my  hauds."— Ctesac  Borgia, 
xxix. 

On  the  cards.  Likely  to  happen,  pro- 
jected, and  talked  about  as  likely  to 
occur.  On  the  programme  or  card  of 
the  races  ;  on  the  "  agenda." 

To  count  c)i  o>/c\'i  cards.  To  anticiisate 
success  under  the  circumstances.  The 
allusion  is  to  holding  in  one's  hand  cards 
likely  to  win. 

To  f/o  in  irilh  good  cards.  To  have 
good  jjatronage  ;  to  have  excellent 
grounds  for  expecting  success. 

'To  throw  up  tlic  cards.  To  give  uji  as 
a  bad  job ;  to  acknowledge  you  have  no 
hope  of  success.  In  some  games  of 
cards,  as  loo,  a  player  has  the  liberty  of 
saying  whether  he  will  i^luy  or  not,  and 
if  one's  hand  is  hopelessly  bad  he  throws 
up  his  cards  and  sits  out  till  the  next 
deal. 

Cardinal  Humcurs.  Blood, phlegm, 
yellow  bile,  and  black  bile. 

Cardinal  Numbers.  Such  numbers 
as  1,  2,  ;3,  etc.  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  etc.,  are 
orduKd  numbers. 

Cardinal  Points  of  the  Compass. 

Due  north,  west,  east,  and  south.  So 
called  because  they  are  the  points  on 
which  the  intermediate  ones,  such  as 
N.E.,  X.W.,  N.N.E.,  etc.,  hinge  or 
hang.     (Latin,  cardo^  a  hinge.) 

Cardinal  Signs  [of  the  Zodiac]. 
The  two  equinoctial  and  the  two  sol- 
sticial  signs,  Aries  and  Libra,  Cancer 
and  Capricomus. 

Cardinal  Virtues.  Justice,  pru- 
dence, tcm])erauce,  and  fortitude,  on 
which  all  other  virtues  hang  or  depend. 

Cardinal  Winds.  Those  that  blow 
due  East,  "West,  North,  and  South. 

Cardinals.  Hinges.  (Latin,  cardo.) 
The  election  of  the  Pope  "  hinges  "  on 
the  voice  of  the  sacred  college,  and  on 
the  Pope  the  doctrines  of  the  Church 
depend ;  so  that  the  cardinals  are  in 
fact  the  hinges  on  which  the  Chiistian 


Church  turns.  There  may  be  six  car- 
dinal bishops,  fifty  cardinal  priests,  and 
fourteen  cardinal  deacons,  who  consti- 
tute the  Pope's  council,  and  who  elect 
the  Pojie  when  a  vacancy  occurs. 

Cardinal's  Red  Hat.  Some  assert 
that  Innocent  IV.  made  the  cardinals 
wear  a  red  hat  "in  token  of  their  being 
ready  to  lay  down  their  life  for  the 
gospel." 

Car'duel  or  Kartcl.  Carlisle.  The 
place  where  Merlin  prepared  the  Round 
Table. 

Care-cloth  {The).  The  fine  linen 
cloth  laid  over  the  newly-married  in  the 
Catholic  Church.  (Anglo-Saxon,  cecrr, 
large,  as  ccar  uund  (a  big  wound),  ccar 
sorli  (a  great  sorrow),  etc.) 

Care  killed  the  Cat.  It  is  said  that 
"a  cat  has  nine  lives,"  yet  care  would 
wear  them  all  out. 

Care  Sunday  (the  fifth  Sunday  in 
Lent).  Professor  Skeat  tells  us  {Xotes 
a»d  Queries,  Oct.  28th,  1893),  that 
"care"  means  trouble,  suffering;  and 
that  Care-Simday  means  Passion-Sun- 
day. In  Old  High  German  we  have 
Ivar-Hochc  and  Kur-filtag. 

The  Latin  cnra  sometimes  meant  "sorrow, 
prief,  lr()ul)le,"  as  "Curam  et  angorem  aiiiiiii 
levare."— CTcero  ;  Att.  i.  13. 

Careme  (2  syl.).  Lent;  a  corruption 
of  rinadragesiiua. 

Car-goose   {A)   or  Gargoose.    The 

crested  diver,  belonging  to  the  genus 
Colymbus.    (Anglo-Saxon,  gar  and  gos.) 

Caricatures  mean  "sketches  over- 
drawn." (Italian,  caricatu'ra,  from 
carica'ri;  to  load  or  btu'den.) 

Car'illons,  in  France,  are  chimes  or 
tunes  played  on  bells  ;  but  in  England 
the  suites  of  bells  that  play  the  tunes. 
Our  word  carol  ajiproaclies  the  French 
meaning  nearer  than  our  own.  The 
best  chimes  in  the  world  are  those  in  Les 
Ilal/cs,  at  Bruges. 

Cari'nas.  Women  hired  by  the  Ro- 
mans to  weep  at  funerals ;  so  called  from 
Caria,  wlience  most  of  them  came. 

Carle  or  Curling  Sunday  [Pea  Sun- 
dag].  The  octave  preceding  Palm  Sim- 
day  ;  so  called  because  the  sj)ecial  food 
of  the  day  was  curling — i.e.  peas  fried 
in  butter.  The  custom  is  a  continuation 
of  tlio  pagan  bean-feast.  The  fifth 
Sunday  in  Lent. 

Carlovingian  Dynasty.  So  called 
from  Carolus  or  Charles  Martel. 


Carludovica 


217 


Carpet 


Carludovi  ca.  A  Pau'ama  hat,  made 
of  the  ('((rliidorica  pul'matu  ;  so  called  hi 
coinpliiiieut  to  Carlos  IV.  of  Spain, 
whose  second  name  was  Ludovic. 

Car'magnole  (3  syl. ).  A  red  Repuh- 
licau  song  and  dance  in  the  first  French 
revolution  ;  so  called  from  Carmag'nola, 
in  Piedmont,  the  gi'eat  nest  of  the 
Savoyards,  noted  for  street  music  and 
dancing.  The  refrain  of  '"  Madame 
Veto,"  the  Carmagnole  song,  is  "  Diai- 
noiin  la  CariiKK/iiole  —  rive  Ic  .1011  (lit 
cinidii!''''  The  word  was  subsequently 
apjilied  to  other  revolutionary  soTigs, 
such  as  Ca  irti,  the  MarsctUaise,  the 
CItaut  (In  Ikpurt.  Besides  the  songs, 
the  word  is  applied  to  the  dress  worn 
by  the  Jacobins,  consisting  of  a  blouse, 
red  cap,  and  tri-coloured  girdle  ;  to  the 
wearer  of  this  dress  or  any  violent  re- 
volutionist ;  to  the  speeches  in  favour 
of  the  execution  of  Louis  XVI.,  called 
by  M.  Barricre  den  C(iri)i(i(inolcs  ;  and, 
lastly,  to  the  dance  fierfonned  by  the 
mob  round  the  guillotine,  or  down  the 
streets  of  Paris. 

Carmelites  (3  syl.).  An  order  of 
mendicant  friars  of  Mount  Carmel,  the 
monastery  of  which  is  named  Eli'as, 
from  Elijah  the  pi-ophet,  who  on  "Mount 
Carmel  told  Ahab  that  rain  was  at  hand. 
Also  called  White  Friars,  from  theii- 
white  cloaks. 

Carmilhan.  The  phantom  ship  on 
which  the  Kobold  of  the  Baltic  sits  when 
he  ajipears  to  doomed  vessels. 

Carminative.  A  charm  medicine. 
Magic  and  charms  were  at  one  time  the 
chief  "  medicines,"  and  the  fact  is  per- 
petuated by  the  word  carminative, 
among  others.  Carminatives  are  given 
to  relieve  flatulence.  (Latin,  cariiuii,  a 
charm. ) 

Carmine  (2  syl).  The  dye  made 
from  the  carmcs  or  kermes  insect,  whence 
also  criinsoii,  through  the  Italian  cre- 
inisuiu. 

Carnation.  "Flesh-colour."  (Latin, 
citro  ;  genitive,  can/is,  flesh.) 

Carney.  To  wheedle,  to  keep  car- 
essing. 

Carnival.  The  season  immediately 
preceding  Lent ;  shrove-tide.  Ducange 
gives  the  word  canw-lcrulc.  (Modern 
Italian,  cari/ovd/e  ;  Spanish  and  French, 
ciirnaral.) 


It:lli> 


lt:ili 


imr.d,-.  i-anuiral,  Qiiidnin 
H'-v.'ilr"  dictum  imtant, 
quMsi  (■,(/H,;  nili-  ij-r(iiHl-l,.\i' inr:tt)  ;  sed  id  etjiiiDii 
11.111  i.rolBit  (Jctiiv.  Fcnuiius.  Cain-'iiis  .... 
aiuielhisse  Kallns  e.\istiiiiat,  carn-a-val,  iiiiod 
souut  caro  aljscedit  .  .  .  [We  arc  referred   to  a 


cliarter,  dated  llii5,  in  wliioli  occurs  the  word 
ciirne-lcnimeii,  and  a  cjiiotalion  is  given  in  wbicli 
occurs  tlie  phrase  in  curnis  levamen^.—Diicaiwp, 
vol.  ii.  p.  2j-.'. 

Carot'id  Artery.  An  artery  on  each 
side  of  the  neck,  supposed  by  the  ancients 
to  be  the  seat  of  drowsiness,  brought  on 
by  an  increased  flow  of  blood  through  it 
to  the  head.  (Greek,  caroticos,  inducing 
sleej).) 

Carouse  (2  syl.).  Mr.  Gifford  saj's 
the  Danes  called  their  large  drinking  cup 
a  rouse,  and  to  rouse  is  to  drink  from  a 
rouse  ;  carouse  is  gar-rouse,  to  drink  all 
up,  or  to  drink  all — i.e.  in  company. 

"The  kiiiy  doth  wake  to-iiipht,  and  trikcs  his 
rouse."  tShakespcare :  Uamh't,\.A. 

CayoKse  the  himtcr'' s  hoop.  Drinking 
cups  were  anciently  marked  with  hooxis, 
by  which  every  drinker  knew  his  stint. 
Shakesjjeare  makes  Jack  Cade  promise 
his  friends  that  "  seven  halfpenny  loaves 
shall  be  sold  for  a  penny ;  and  the  three- 
hooped  pot  have  ten  hoops."  Pegs  or 
pins  {q.v.^  are  other  means  of  limiting 
the  draught  of  individuals  who  drank 
out  of  the  same  tankard. 

Carpathian  Wizard.  Proteus  (2 
syl.),  who  lived  in  the  island  of  Car'- 
pathos,  between  Rhodes  and  Crete.  He 
was  a  wizard  and  prophet,  who  could 
transfonn  himself  into  any  shape  he 
pleaded.  He  is  rej^resented  as  carrying 
a  sort  of  crook  in  his  hand.  Carpathos, 
now  called  Scaiijanto. 

"  By  tlie  Carpathian  wizard's  liook." 

Milton:  Cumu.1,  893. 

Carpc  DieiUo  Enjoy  yourself  while 
you  have  the  opportunity.  Seize  the 
present  day.      {Horace  :  1    Odes,  xi.  8.) 

^^  Bum  vivxmns,  virdnuis.'''' 

Carpenter  is  from  the  Low  Latin 
curpvuliiruis,  a  maker  of  cnrpeiilu  (two- 
wheeled  carts  and  carriages).  The  ear- 
penium  was  used  for  ladies ;  the  carpcntuiti 
funebre  or  carpcntum  pompaiwnn  was  ;i 
hearse.  There  was  also  a  carpnitxiio 
(cart)  for  agricultural  pui-poses.  There 
is  no  Latin  word  for  our  "  carjjenter  "  ; 
the  ijhrase  falwr  lif/iKiriiis  is  used  oy 
Cicero.  Our  forefathers  called  a  car- 
penter a  "  smith  "  or  a  ''wood-smith.'' 
(French,  charpcntier.) 

Carpet. 

'I7/e  niar/ie  carpet  of  Tai>f/u.  A  carpel 
to  all  appearances  worthless,  but  if  any- 
one sat  thereon,  it  would  transport  him 
instantaneously  to  the  place  he  wished 
to  go.  So  called  because  it  came  from 
Tangu,  in  Persia.  It  is  sometimes  termed 
Prince  Hoiimin^s  carjpet,  because  it  came 


Carpet-bag 


218 


Carry  the  Day 


into  his  hands,  and  he  made  use  of  it. 
(Arabian  Niglits  :  Prince  Ahmed.)  {tiee 
below.) 

Solomon's  carpet.  The  Eastern  writers 
say  that  Solomou  had  a  green  silk  carpet, 
on  wliidi  his  throne  was  placed  when  he 
travelled.  This  carpet  was  large  enough 
for  all  his  forces  to  stand  upon  ;  the  men 
and  women  stood  on  his  right  hand,  and 
the  spirits  on  his  left.  When  all  were 
arranged  in  order,  Solomon  told  the  wind 
where  he  wished  to  go,  and  the  carpet, 
with  all  its  contents,  rose  in  the  air  and 
alighted  at  the  jjlace  indicated.  In  order 
to  screen  the  party  from  the  sun,  the 
birds  of  the  air  with  outspread  wings 
formed  a  canopy  over  the  whole  party. 
{Sule  :  Koran.)     {dee  above.') 

Such  and  snch  a  question  is  on  the 
carpet.  The  French  sur  le  tapis  (on  the 
table-cloth)  —  i.e.  before  the  house, 
uuder  consideration.  The  question  has 
been  laid  on  the  table-cloth  of  the  house, 
and  is  now  uuder  debate. 

Carpet-bag  Adventurer  {A).  A 
passing  adventurer,  who  happens  to  be 
on  the  road  with  his  travelling  or  carpet- 
bag. 

Carpet  -  bag     Government.      The 

government  of  mere  adventurers.  In 
America,  a  state  in  the  South  reorganised 
by  "  carjiet-baggers,"  i.e.  Northern 
political  adventurers,  who  soiight  a  career 
in  the  Southern  States  after  the  Civil 
"War  of  1865.  [It  may  be  noted  that  in 
America  members  of  Congress  and  the 
State  legislatures  almost  invariably  reside 
in  the  district  which  they  rejDresent.  ] 

Carpet  Knight.  One  dubbed  at 
Court  by  favour,  not  having  won  his 
spurs  by  military  service  in  the  field. 
Mayors,  lawj'ers,  and  other  civilians 
knighted  as  they  kneel  on  a  carpet 
before  their  sovereign.  "Knights  of 
the  Carpet,"  "Knights  of  the  Green 
Cloth,"  "Knights  of  Carjietry." 

"The  sulKinliiKite  cuminauds  fell  to  young 
patricians,  CHvpet-knifflits,  who  went  on  caiii- 
paigiis  with  their  families  aud  slaves."— froade; 
Ccesar,  chai).  \\.  i>.  91. 

Carpocra'tians.  Gnostics  ;  so  called 
from  Carpo'crates,  who  flourished  in  the 
middle  of  the  second  century.  They 
maintained  that  the  world  was  made  by 
angels, — that  only  the  soul  of  Christ 
ascended  into  heaven,  —  and  that  the 
body  will  have  no  resuiTection. 

Carriage  Company.  Persons  who 
keep  their  jirivate  carnage. 

"  Seeing  a  great  deal  of  carriage  company."— 
Thackeray. 


Carriages.    Things  carried,  luggage. 

"  And  after  those  days  we  took  up  our  carriages, 
and  went  up  to  Jerusalem."— Acts  xxi.  !.">. 

Car'ronades  (3  syl.).  Short,  light 
iron  guns.  As  they  have  no  truimions 
they  difier  in  this  respect  from  guns  and 
howitzers  ('/.*'.).  They  were  invented 
in  1779  by  Mr.  Gascoigne,  director  of 
the  Carrou  foundry,  in  Scotland,  whence 
the  name.  Carrouades  are  fastened  to 
their  carriages  by  a  loop  underneath, 
and  are  chiefly  used  in  the  arming  of 
ships,  to  enable  them  to  throw  heavy 
shot  at  close  quarters,  without  over- 
loading the  decks  with  heavy  guns.  On 
shore  they  are  tised  as  howitzers. 

Carry  Arms !  Hold  your  gun  in  the 
right  hand,  the  barrel  nearly  pen)en- 
dicular,  and  resting  against  the  hollow 
of  the  shoulder,  the  thumb  and  fore- 
finger embracing  the  guard.  (A  military 
command.)     {See  Caeey  Swords.) 

Carry  Coals.     {See  Coals.) 

Carry  Everything  before  One  (2o). 

To  be  beyond  competition ;  to  carry  off 
all  the  prizes.  A  military  jjhrase. 
Similarly,  a  high  wind  carries  every- 
thing before  it. 

Carry  Fire  in  one  Hand  and  Water 

in  the  other  (I'o).  To  say  one  thing 
and  mean  another  ;  to  flatter,  to  deceive  ; 
to  lull  suspicion  in  order  the  better  to 
work  mischief. 

"  Altera  mami  fert  afiuam,  altera  ignom. 
Altera   nianu   fert  lapideui,   altera  panem  os- 
tentat."  J'lautiia. 

Carry  One's  Point  (To).  To  suc- 
ceed in  one's  aim.  Candidates  in  Rome 
were  balloted  for,  and  the  votes  were 
marked  ou  a  tablet  by  points.  Hence, 
omne  punctum  ferre  meant  "to  be 
carrietl  nem.  con.,^''  or  to  gain  every 
vote;  aud  "to  carry  one's  point"  is 
to  carry  off  the  points  at  which  one 
aimed. 

Carry  Out  {T<i)  or  Carry  tlirviafh. 
To  continue  a  project  to  its  comijletion. 

Carry    out    one's    Bat    (To).      A 

cricketer  is  said  to  carry  out  his  bat 
when  he  is  not  "out"  at  the  close  of 
the  game. 

Carry  Swords!  Hold  the  drawn 
sword  vertically,  the  blade  against  the 
shoulder.  (A  military  command.)  {_Sce 
((bore,  Carey  Arms.) 

Carry  the  Day    {To).    To  win  the 

contest  ;  to  carry  oif  the  honours  of  the 
day.     In  Latin,  rictoriam  reporidrc. 


Carry  Weight 


219 


Case 


Carry  Weight  {To),  in  races,  etc., 
lueaus  to  equalise  the  weight  of  two  or 
more  riders  by  adding  weights  to  the 
lighter  ones,  till  both  (or  all)  the  riders 
are  made  of  one  uniform  weight. 
'■  Ho'  curries  weislit !  be  rides  a  race  ! 
'Tis  fur  a  tUousaud  pounds." 

Coii'per :  John  Gilpin. 

To  carry  u-e\ght.     To  have  influence. 

Cart  before  the  Horse.     To  put  the 

cart  before  tlic  horse  is  to  reverse  the 
right  order  or  allocation  of  things. 

French  :  "  Mettre  la  cbarrette  avaiit  les  Ijceufs." 

Latin  :  "Currus  bovem  traliit 
PrjBpostere." 

Greek:  "  Hysteron  proteron."i 

German:  "Die  pferde  hinter  den  wagen  spaii- 
neti." 

Italian  :  "  Metter  il  carro  inanzi  ai  buoi." 

Carte  Blanche  (French).  A  blank 
cheque  signed  by  tlie  giver,  but  left  to 
be  tilled  in  by  the  receiver,  with  a  sum 
of  money  drawn  on  the  bank-account  of 
the  giver.  Power  to  act  at  discretion  in 
an  affair  placed  under  your  charge. 

Carte  de  Visite  (French).  A  visiting 
card  ;  a  pliotograjihic  likeness  on  a  card 
for  the  albums  of  friends,  etc.  This 
custom  originated,  in  1857,  with  the 
Duke  of  Parma. 

Cartesian  Philosophy.  The  philo- 
sophical system  of  Bene  Descartes  (Latin, 
Carte'sius),  of  La  Haye,  in  Touraine. 
The  basis  of  his  system  is  cog'ito  ergo 
siiiii.  Thought  must  proceed  from  soul, 
and  tlierefore  man  is  not  wholly  ma- 
terial ;  that  soul  must  be  from  some 
Being  not  material,  and  that  Being  is 
God.  As  for  physical  phenomena,  they 
must  be  the  result  of  motion  excited  by 
God,  and  these  motions  he  termed 
rortices.     (1596-1650.) 

V  Of  course,  he  begs  the  whole  ques- 
tion in  his  first  assertion.     (Sec  Cogito.) 

Carthage  of  the  North.  Lubeck 
was  so  called,  when  it  was  the  head  of 
the  Hanseatic  League. 

Carthage'na.     Capital  of  New  Gra- 
na'da,  in  South  America,  unsuccessfully 
attacked  in  1747  by  Admiral  Vernon. 
"Wasteful,  forth 

"Walks  the  dire  power  of  pestilent  disease  .  .  . 
.  iSiich  as,  of  late,  at  Carthagena  tiuencbed 

The  British  lire.    You,  gallant  Vernon,  saw 

The  miserable  scene  ;  you,  pitying,  saw 

To  infant-weakness  sunk  the  warrior's  arnj." 
Tlwmson  :  Summer,  WM-iX 

Carthag'inem      esse      Delendam 

(ceiiseo)  were  the  words  with  which 
Cato  the  Elder  concluded  every  speech 
in  the  Roman  senate.  More  usually 
quoted  "■  Detoida  est  Carthago.^'  They 
are  now  proverbial,  and  mean,  "That 
which  stands  in  the  way  of  our  great- 
ness must  be  removed  at  all  hazards." 


Carthaginian    Faith.      Treachery. 

(.SVc  PuNiCA  Fides.) 

Carthu'sians.  Founded,  in  1086, 
by  St.  Bruno,  of  Cologne,  who,  with 
six  companions,  retired  to  the  solitude 
of  La  Chartreuse,  near  Greuo'ble,  in 
Vieune. 

Cartoons.  Designs  drawn  on  cartone 
(pasteboard),  like  those  of  EafFaelle,  for- 
merly at  Hamilton  Court,  but  now  at 
Kensington  Museum.  They  were  bought 
by  Charles  1.,  and  are  seven  in  number : 
"The  Miraculous  Draught  of  Fishes," 
"Feed  my  Lambs,"  "The  Beautiful 
Gate  of  the  Temple,"  "Death  of  An- 
aui'as,"  "  El'ymas  the  Sorcerer,"  "Paul 
at  Lystra,"  and  "Paul  on  the  Mars 
Hill." 

"  They  were  designs  for  tapestries  to  be  worked 
in  Flanders."— ./«i'((i  B.  De  Purest :  dhort  History  of 
An,  p.  iMe. 

Cart'ridge  Paper  was  originally 
manufactured  for  soldiers'  cartridges. 
The  word  is  a  corruption  of  cartouche^ 
from  carta  (paj)er). 

Carya'tes  or  Caryat'ids.  Figures  of 
women  in  Greek  costume,  used  in  archi- 
tecture to  support  entablatures.  Ca'- 
ryae,  in  Arca'dia,  sided  with  the  Persians 
in  the  battle  of  Thermop'ylfE  ;  in  conse- 
quence of  which  the  victorious  Greeks 
destroyed  the  city,  slew  the  men,  and 
made  the  women  slaves.  Praxit'eles,  to 
perpetuate  the  disgrace,  employed  figures 
of  these  women,  instead  of  columns. 
[Sec  page  72,  col.  2,  Atlantes  ;  page  208, 

col.  2,  CANEPHOEiB.) 

Caryat'ic    Order   or    Caryatid'ic 

Order.  Architecture  in  which  Cary- 
at'ids are  introduced  to  support  the 
entablature. 

Casabian'ca  was  the  name  of  the 
captain  of  the  French  man-of-war, 
V Orient.  At  the  battle  of  Aboukir, 
having  first  secured  the  safety  of  his 
crew,  he  blew  up  his  ship,  to  prevent  it 
falling  into  the  hands  of  the  English. 
His  little  son,  refusing  to  leave  him, 
perished  with  his  father.  Mrs.  Hemans 
has  made  a  ballad,  Casabiaiica,  on  this 
subject,  modifyiug  the  incident.  The 
French  poets  Lebrun  and  Chenier  have 
also  celebrated  the  occurrence. 

Cas'ca.  A  blunt-witted  Roman,  one 
of  the  conspirators  against  Julius  Caesar. 
{Shakespeare :  Julias  C'tesar.) 

Case  (To).  To  skin  an  animal.  lu 
the  Cookcrg  by  Mrs.  Glasse  is  the  direc- 
tion, "  Take  your  hare  when  it  is  cased, 
.  .  .  and  make  a  pudding  ..."  The 
witticism,  "  First  catch  your  hare,"  may 
Ijossibly  have  been  suggested    by  this 


Case-hardened 


220 


Cast  Accounts 


dii'ection,  but  it  is  not   in  the  Ai't  of 
C'ookeri/  made  I'iain  and  Euinj. 

Case-hardened.  Impenetrable  to  all 
sense  of  honour  or  sliame.  The  allusion 
is  to  iron  toughened  by  carbonisinpr  the 
surface  in  contact  with  charcoal  in  a 
case  or  closed  box.     It  is  done  by  heat. 

Cashier'  (2  syl.).   To  dismiss  an  officer 
from  the  army,  to  discard  from  society. 
(French,  ca.sscr,  to  break ;  Italian,  cas- 
sa'r'e,  to  blot  out ;  Ger.  kassircii.) 
"The  ruling  rof-'iie,  -wlio  rlreads  to  be  caphiered, 

L'ciiitrives,  as  lie  is  liaied,  to  lio  fi^ared." 

tSirift :  Eiiiatlc  to  Mr.  (liiii,  line  137. 

Casi'no.  Originally,  a  little  casa  or 
room  near  a  theatre,  where  persons 
might  retire,  after  the  play  was  over, 
for  dancing  or  music. 

Casket  Homer.  Alexander  the 
Great's  edition,  with  Aristotle's  correc- 
tions. After  the  battle  of  Arbe'la  a 
golden  casket,  studded  with  jewels,  was 
found  in  the  tent  of  Dari'us.  Alexan- 
der, being  asked  to  what  purjiose  it 
should  be  applied,  made  answer,  "There 
is  but  one  production  in  the  world 
worthy  of  so  costly  a  depository,"  and 
placed  therein  his  edition  of  Homer, 
which  received  from  this  circumstance 
the  term  of  Casket  Homer. 

Caspar.  A  huntsman  who  sold  him- 
self to  Za'miel,  the  Black  Huntsman. 
The  night  before  tlie  expiration  of  his 
lease  of  life  he  bargained  for  tliree 
years'  resi^ite  on  condition  of  bringing 
Max  into  the  power  of  the  evil  one. 
Zamiel  replied,  "To-morrow  either  he 
or  you."  On  the  day  appointed  for  the 
trial- shot,  Caspar  places  himself  in  a 
tree.  Max  is  told  by  the  prince  to  aim 
at  a  dove.  The  dove  flies  to  the  tree 
where  Caspar  is  concealed.  Max  shoots 
at  the  dove,  but  kills  Caspar,  and  Zamiel 
comes  to  carry  off  his  victim.  ( JFtkr^ti 
Opera  ofDer  Frclschiitz.) 

Cassan'dra.  Daughter  of  Priam, 
gifted  with  the  power  of  proijliecy ; 
but  Apollo,  whom  she  had  offended, 
brought  it  to  pass  that  no  one  believed 
her  predictions.  {Shakespeare  :  Troi/as 
and  Crcssida.) 

"Tlidse  wlio  foresee  and  predict  the  downfall, 
meet  with  the  fate  of  Cassandra."— T/(c  Times. 

Cassa'tion.  T7te  court  of  cassatiou, 
in  France,  is  the  court  which  can  ca.sser 
(or  quash)  the  judgment  of  other  courts. 

Cassi.  Inhabitants  of  what  is  now 
Cassio  hundred,  Hertfordshire,  referred 
to  by  Cajsar  in  his  Commcutarics. 

Cassib'elan.  Great-uncle  to  Cym- 
beline.      He    granted    Caesar   a   yearly 


tribute  of  £3,000.     {Shakespeare :  Vijm- 

heliiie.) 

Cassio  (in  Sliakespcare's  Othello). 
Michael  Cassio  was  a  Florentine,  and 
Othello's  lieutenant.  lago  made  him 
drunk,  and  then  set  on  Roderi'go  to 
quarrel  with  him.  Cassio  wounded 
Roderigo,  and  a  brawl  ensued,  which 
oil'euded  Othello.  Othello  suspended 
Cassio,  but  lago  induced  Desdcmo'na  to 
plead  for  his  restoration.  This  interest 
in  Cassio,  being  regarded  by  the  Moor  as 
a  confirmation  of  Dosdoniona's  illicit 
love,  liiiited  at  broadly  liy  lago,  ])ro- 
voked  the  jealousy  of  Othello.  After 
the  death  of  the  Moor,  Cassio  was  ap- 
pointed governor  of  Cyprus. 

Cassiope'ia  \the  ladtj  in  the  ehuir]. 
The  chief  stars  of  this  constellation  form 
the  outline  of  a  chair.  The  lady  referred 
to  is  the  wife  of  Ce'pheus  (2  syl.),  King 
of  Ethiopia.  She  boasted  that  tlie 
beauty  of  her  daugliter  AndromSda  sur- 
passed that  of  tlie  sea-nymphs.  The 
.sea-nym2)hs  complained  to  the  sea  god 
of  this  aifront,  and  Andromeda,  to 
appease  their  wrath,  was  chained  to  a 
rock  to  be  devoured  by  sea-monsters. 
Perseus  (2  syl.)  delivered  her,  and  made 
her  his  wife.  The  vain  mother  was  taken 
to  heaven  out  of  the  way,  and  i^laced 
among  the  stars. 

"  That  starred  Ethioii  uneen  thai  strove 
To  set  her  heanly's  praise  above 
The  sea-nyniphs  and  their  iiowers  offenm  ... 
Miltun :  II  I'oiseroso. 

N.B. — "  Her  beauty's  praise  "  means 
that  of  her  beautiful  daughter.  An- 
dromeda was  her  mother's  "  beauty." 

Cassiter'ides  (.)  syl.).T]ie  tin  islnnds, 
generally  sujiposed  to  be  the  Scilly  Is- 
lands anil  Cornwall,  but  probably  tlie 
isles  in  Vigo  Bay  are  meant.  It  is  said 
that  the  Veneti  procured  tin  from  Corn- 
wall, and  carried  it  to  the  Isles  of  Vigo 
Bay,  but  kept  as  a  profound  secret  tlie 
place  from  which  they  obtained  it.  The 
Phoenicians  were  the  chief  customers  of 
the  Veneti. 

Cast  About  {To).  To  deliberate,  to 
consider,  as,  "I  am  casting  about  me 
how  I  am  to  meet  the  expenses."  A 
sporting  phrase.  Dogs,  when  they  have 
lost  scent,  "cast  for  it,"  i.e.  spread 
out  and  search  in  different  directions  to 
recover  it. 

Cast  Accounts  {To).  To  balance  or 
keep  accounts.  To  cast  i(p  a  line  of 
ff/ures  is  to  add  them  together  and  set 
down  the  sum  they  produce.  To  cast 
or  throw  the  value  of  one  figure  into 
another  till  the  whole  number  is  totalled. 


Cast  Anchor 


221 


Castle 


Cast  Anchor  {To).  To  throw  out 
the  anchor  in  order  to  bring  the  vessel 
to  a  standstill.     (Latin,  ainhomiiijacSre.) 

Cast  Aside  (To).  To  reject  as 
worthless. 

Cast  Down.    Dejected.     (Latin,  clc- 

jcctns.) 

Cast  a  Sheep's  Eye  at  One  {To). 
To  look  askance  or  sideways  at  one  ;  to 
look  wantonly  at  one. 

Cast  beyond  the  Moon.  To  form 
wild  conjectures.  One  of  Heywood's 
proverbs.  At  one  time  the  moon  was 
supposed  to  influence  the  weather,  to 
affect  the  ingathering  of  fruits,  to  rule 
the  time  of  sowing,  reaping,  and  slay- 
ing cattle,  etc. 

"I  talke  rif  tiling's  iiiiiio5sil>Ic,  and  cast  lieyoiul 
tbe  iiiijin.''  IJcyicoud. 

Cast  in  One's  Lot  {To).  To  share 
the  good  or  bad  fortune  of  another. 

Cast  into  One's  Teeth  (To).  To 
throw  a  reproof  at  one.  The  allusion 
is  to  knocking  one's  teeth  out  by  stones. 

"  All  my  faults  ubserved,  set  in  a  note  liook, 
Learned  and  conned  liy  rote,  to  cast  into  my 
teeth."  Shakespeare :  Julius  Ccesur. 

Cast  of  the  Eye  {A).  A  squint. 
One  meaning  of  the  word  cast  is  to 
twist  or  warp.  Thus,  a  fabric  is  said 
to  "cast"  when  it  warjis ;  and  seamen 
speak  of  "  casting,"  or  turning  the  head 
of  a  ship  on  the  tack  it  is  to  sail.  We 
also  speak  of  a  "casting"  or  turning 
vote. 

"  My  goode  bovve  clene  cast  [twisted]  on  one 
%\ie."—Ascham :  Toxophilus. 

Cast  Pearls  before  Swine  (To). 
If  pearls  are  cast  to  swine,  the  swine 
would  only  trample  them  under  foot. 

Casting  Vote.  The  vote  of  the  pre- 
siding officer  when  the  votes  of  the 
assembly  are  equal.  This  final  vote 
casts,  turns,  or  determines  the  question. 

Castagnette  {Captai»).  A  hero 
noted  for  having  his  stomach  replaced 
by  Desgenettes  by  a  leather  one.  His 
career  is  ended  by  a  bomb,  which  blows 
liim  into  fragments.  An  extravaganza 
from  the  French  of  Manuel. 

Cas'taly.  A  fountain  of  Parnassus 
sacred  to  the  Muses.  Its  waters  had  the 
power  of  inspii'iug  with  the  gift  of  poetry 
those  who  drank  of  them. 

"The  drooping  Jliises  [Sir  Industry] 

Brought  Co  another  Castalie, 
"Where  Isis  many  a  famous  nursling  breeds, 
Or  where  old  Cam  soft  iiaces  o'er  tlie  lea 
In  iiensive  mood." 

Thomsan :  Castle  of  Indolence,  ii.  21. 

"Isis"  means  the  University  of  Oxford, 


and  "Cam"  the  University  of  Cam- 
bridge, so  called  from  the  respective 
rivers  on  which  they  stand. 

Caste  (1  syl.),  race.  The  Portuguese 
casta.  In  Sanskrit  the  word  used  for 
the  same  purpose  is  rarna  (colour).  The 
four  Hindu  castes  are  Brahmins  (the 
sacred  order),  Shatri'ya  (soldiers  and 
rulers),  Vaixi/'a  (husbandmen  and  mer- 
chants), Sudra  (agricultural  labourers 
and  mechanics).  The  first  issued  from 
the  mouth  of  Brahma,  tlie  second  from 
his  arms,  the  third  from  his  thighs,  and 
the  fourth  from  his  feet.  Below  these 
come  thirty-six  inferior  classes,  to  whom 
the  Vedas  are  sealed,  and  who  are  held 
cursed  in  this  world  and  without  hope  iu 
the  next.  The  Jews  seem  to  have  enter- 
tained the  same  notion  respecting  the 
common  jjeople,  and  hence  the  Sanhe- 
drim say  to  the  officers,  "  This  people, 
who  know  not  the  law,  are  cursed." 
(John  vii.  49.) 

To  lose  caste.  To  lose  positioix  in 
EOcietJ^  To  get  degraded  from  one 
caste  to  an  inferior  one. 

Castle  Builder  {A).  One  who  en- 
tertains sanguine  hopes.  One  who 
builds  air-castles  which  have  no  exis- 
tence except  iu  a  dreamy  imagination. 

{See  heJon-.) 

Castle  in  the  Air.  A  splendid 
edifice,  but  one  which  has  no  existence. 
In  fairy  tales  we  often  have  these  castles 
built  at  a  word,  and  vanishing  as  soon, 
like  that  built  for  Aladdin  by  the  Genius 
of  the  Lamp.  These  air-castles  are 
called  by  the  French  Chateaux  cV Espayne, 
because  Spain  has  no  chateaux.  We  also 
find  the  expression  Chcbtcaux-  en  Asie  for 
a  similar  reason.     {See  Chateaux.) 

Castle  of  Bungay  {My). 

"  Were  I  in  my  Castle  of  Bungay 
Vpon  tlie  riuer  of  Waueuey, 
I  would  ue  care  for  the  Kiug  of  Cockney." 

Attributed  to  Lord  Bigod  of  Bungay. 
The  lines  are  in  Camden's  Britannia 
(edit.  1607).  The  events  referred  to  in 
the  ballad  belong  to  the  reign  of  Stephen 
or  Henry  II.  {See  Bak-sub-Aube,  page 
100,  col.  1.) 

Castle  of  Indolence.  In  the  land 
of  Drowsiness,  where  every  sense  is 
steeped  in  enervating  delights.  The 
owner  of  the  castle  was  an  enchanter, 
who  deprived  all  who  entered  his  domains 
of  their  energy  and  free-will.  {Thomson  : 
Castle  of  Indolence.) 

Castle  Terabil  (or  "Terrible")  in 
Arthurian  legends  stood  in  Laimceston. 
It  had  a  steep  keep  environed  with  a 


Castor 


222 


Cat 


triple  wall.  Sometimes  called  Duu- 
heved  Castle.  It  was  within  ten  miles 
of  Tiutagel. 

Castor.  A  hat.  Castor  is  the  Latin 
for  a  beaver,  and  beaver  means  a  hat 
made  of  the  beaver's  skiu. 

"  Tom  Trot 
Took  bis  new  castor  from  bis  bead." 

Randall :  Diary. 

Castor  and  Pollux.  What  we  call 
coinazajiis.  Electric  flames  sometimes 
seen  in  stormy  weatlier  playing  about 
the  masts  of  sliijis.  If  only  one  flame 
showed  itself,  the  Romans  called  it  Helen, 
and  said  that  it  j)orteuded  that  the  worst 
of  the  storm  was  yet  to  come ;  but  two 
or  more  luminous  flames  they  called 
Cdxtor  and  PoIIkx,  and  said  that  they 
boded  tlie  termination  of  the  storm. 

But  when  tbe  sons  of  Leda  shed 
Tbeir  star-lamps  on  our  vessel's  bead, 
Tbe  storm-winds  cease,  tbe  troubled  spray 
Falls  from  tbe  rocks,  clouds  tlee  away, 
And  on  the  bosom  of  tho  deep 
Id  peace  the  angry  billows  sleep.    E.  C.  B. 
Horace :  t  Odes  xii.,  l'7-3l'. 

Castor's  Horse.  Cyll'aros.  Virgil 
ascribes  him  to  Pollux.  (Geor.,  iii.) 
(<S'«;  Horse.) 

Cas'uist  (3  syl.).  One  who  resolves 
casHu  cutiscicjiiuc  (cases  of  conscience). 
M.  le  Pevre  calls  casuistry  "  the  art  of 
quibbhng  with  God." 

Casus  Belli  (Latin).  A  ground  for 
war ;  an  occurrence  warranting  inter- 
national hostilities. 

Cat.  Called  a  "familiar,"  from  the 
mediasval  superstition  that  Satan's  fa- 
vourite form  was  a  black  cat.  Hence 
"  witches  "  were  said  to  have  a  cat  as 
their  familiar. 

Cat.  A  symbol  of  liberty.  The  Roman 
goddess  of  Liberty  was  represented  as 
holding  a  cup  in  one  hand,  a  broken 
sceptre  in  the  other,  and  with  a  cat 
lying  at  her  feet.  No  animal  is  so  great 
an  enemy  to  all  constraint  as  a  cat. 

Cat.  Held  in  veneration  by  the  Egyp- 
tians under  the  name  of  ^lu'rus.  This 
deity  is  rej)resented  with  a  human  body 
and  a  cat's  head.  Diodo'rus  tells  us  that 
whoever  killed  a  cat,  even  by  accident, 
was  by  the  Egyptians  punished  by  death. 
According  to  Egyptian  tradition,  Diana 
assumed  the  form  of  a  cat,  and  thus  ex- 
cited the  fury  of  the  giants. 

The  London  Reriew  says  the  Egyptians 
worshipped  the  cat  as  a  symbol  of  the 
moon,  not  only  because  it  is  more  active 
after  sunset,  but  from  the  dilation  and 
contraction  of  its  pupil,  symbolical  of  the 
waxing  and  waning  of  the  night-goddess. 
{See  Puss. ) 

Hang  me  in  a  bottle  like  a  cat.     {Much 


Ado  about  Xothlnr/,  i.  1.)  In  olden 
times  a  cat  was  for  sjjort  enclosed  in  a 
bag  or  leather  bottle,  and  hinig  to  the 
branch  of  a  tree,  as  a  mark  for  ))owmeu 
to  shoot  at.  Steevens  tells  us  of  another 
sport :  "A  cat  was  placed  in  a  soot  bag, 
aud  hung  on  a  hue  ;  the  players  had  to 
beat  out  the  bottom  of  the  bag  without 
getting  besmudged,  and  he  wlio  suc- 
ceeded in  so  doing  was  allowed  to  hunt 
the  cat  afterwards. 

Some  .  .  .  are  mad  if  they  behold  n  cat. 
{Merehant  of  Venice,  \y.  1.)  Henri  III. 
of  France  swooned  if  he  caught  sight  of 
a  cat,  and  Napoleon  I.  showed  a  morbid 
horror  of  the  same  ;  so  did  one  of  the 
Ferdinands,  Emperor  of  Germany.  (.SVf 
Antipathy,  page  oo ;  Pig.) 

Cat-call.  A  kind  of  whistle  used  at 
theatres  by  the  audience  to  express  dis- 
pleasure or  impatience.  A  hideous  noise 
like  the  call  or  wutd  of  a  cat. 

"  I  was  very  much  surprised  with  tbe  great 
consort  of  cat-calls  ....  to  see  so  many  persons 
of  iniality  of  liotli  sexes  assembled  togetlier  at  a 
kind  of  caterwaulinf,'."  — jl(Jrfi8u?i,  .Spectator, 'Sit. 
am. 

Cat-eyed.    Able  to  see  in  the  dark. 
('a/\s  ei/e  is  an  opalescent  mineral  gem. 

Cat  Jumps  (T/ie).  See  how  the  cat 
jumps,  "  wliich  way  the  wind  blows"; 
which  of  two  alternatives  is  likely  to  be 
the  successful  one  before  you  give  any 
opinion  of  its  merit  or  adhesion  to  it, 
either  moral  or  otherwise.  The  allusion 
is  to  the  game  called  tip-cat.  Before 
you  strike,  you  must  observe  which  way 
the  "  cat "  has  jumped  up. 

*,*  We  are  told  that  our  forefathers 
had  a  cruel  sport,  which  consisted  in 
placing  a  cat  in  a  tree  as  a  mai  k  to  shoot 
at.  A  wily  sportsman  would,  of  course, 
wait  to  see  which  way  it  jumped  before 
he  shot  at  lier.  This  sort  of  sport  was 
very  like  that  of  hanging  two  cats  by 
their  tails  over  a  rope.  {See  page  224, 
Kilkenny  Cat.) 

"  He  soon  saw  which  way  the  cat  ilid  jump, 
Aud  bis  conuiany  he  offered  plump.'' 
The  Uoffs-ment  Man  (See  Vnivcrsal  Songster,  18'-'5.) 

Cat  Stane.  Battle  stone.  A  mono- 
lith in  Scotland  (sometimes  wrongly  called 
a  Druidical  .stone).  The  Norwegian 
term,  baiita  stein,  means  the  same  thing. 
(Celtic,  cath,  battle.) 

Cat  and  Dog.  To  lire  a  cat  and 
dor/  life.  To  be  always  snarling  and 
quarrelling,  as  a  cat  aud  dog,  whose 
aversion  to  each  other  is  intense. 

"There  will  be  jealousies,  aud  a  cat-and-dog 
life  over  yonder  worse  than  e\er."—Carl!jle: 
Frederick  the  Great  tvul.  ii.  book  ix.  p.  346.). 

It  is  raining  cats  and  dogs.  Very 
heavily.      We    sometimes    say,    "It    is 


Cat 


223 


Cat  Proverbs 


raining  pitchforks,"  wliich  is  the  French 
locution,  " //  toinbe  des  hallcbardcs." 

Cat  and  Fiddle,  a  public-house  sign, 
is  a  corruption  of  Catou  le  fiddle,  mean- 
ing Caton,  Governor  of  Calais. 

Cat  and  Kittens.  A  public-house 
sign,  alluding  to  the  pewter-pots  so 
called.  Stealing  these  pots  is  termed 
"Cat  and  kitten  sneaking."  We  still 
call  a  large  kettle  a  kitchen,  and  .speak 
of  a  soldier's  kit.  (Saxon,  ('ytcl,  a  pot, 
pan,  or  vessel  generally.) 

Cat  and  Tortoise,  or  Boar  and  Sow. 
Names  given  to  the  testu'do. 

Cat  has  nine  Lives  {A).  {Sec  under 
Nine.  ) 

Cat  i'  the  Adage  {The).  The  adage 
referred  to  is,  the  cat  loves  fish,  but  does 
not  like  to  wet  her  j)aws. 

"  Letting  '  I  dare  not'  wait  upon  '  I  wouUl,' 
Like  tlie  poor  cat  i'  tlie  aiiaae." 
1  Slidkcspcdre :  Macbeth,  i.  ". 

Cat  may  look  at  a  King  {A).  An 
insolent  remark  of  insubordination, 
meaning,,"!  am  as  good  as  you"  ;  or 
' '  Are  you  too  mighty  to  be  spoken  to  or 
looked  at  ?  "  "  You  may  wear  stars  and 
ribbons,  and  I  may  be  dressed  in  hodden 
grey,  but  a  man's  a  man  for  a'  that." 

Cat-o'-nine-tails.  A  whip,  first  with 
three,  then  with  six,  and  lastly  with 
nine  lashes,  used  for  punishing  offenders, 
and  briefly  called  a  cat.  Lilburn  was 
scourged,  in  1G37,  with  a  whip  having 
only  three  lashes,  but  there  were  twenty 
knots  in  each  tail,  and,  as  he  received  a 
lash  every  three  paces  between  the  Fleet 
and  Old  Palace  Yard,  Cook  says  that 
60,000  strijDes  were  inflicted.  Titus  Gates 
was  scoui-ged,  in  the  reign  of  James  II., 
with  a  cat  having  six  lashes,  and,  between 
Newgate  and  Tyburn,  received  as  many 
as  17,000  lashes.  The  cat-o'-nine-tails 
once  used  in  the  British  army  and 
navy  is  no  longer  employed  there,  but 
garotters  and  some  other  offenders  are 
still  scourged.  Probably  the  punish- 
ment was  first  used  on  board  ship,  wliere 
ropes  would  be  handy,  and  several  ropes 
are  called  cats,  as  "  cat-harpings,''  for 
bracing  the  shrouds  ;  "  cat-falls,"  which 
pass  over  the  cat-head  and  communicate 
with  the  cat-block,  etc.  The  French 
martinet  {q.v.)  had  twelve  leather 
thongs. 

Cat  Proverbs. 

A  cat  has  nine  lives.  A  cat  is  more 
tenacious  of  life  than  other  animals, 
because  it  generally  lights  upon  its  feet 
without  injury,  the  foot  and  toes  being  | 


padded  so  as  to  break   the   fall. 

Nine.) 


{See 


"  Tiib.  WLiat  wouldsf  tliou  liave  with  me  ' 
Mer.  Good  kins  of  cats,  uotliina  but  one  of  your 
nine  lives." 

Shakespeare:  Romeo  and  Juliet,  iii.  1. 

All  eats  love  fish.  {See  previous  column, 
Cat  i'  the  Adage.) 

Before  the  cat  can  lick  her  car — i.e. 
before  the  Greek  kalends.  Never.  No 
cat  can  Lick  her  ear.     {See  Never.) 

Care  killed  the  cat.  {See  page  216,  2, 
Care.) 

In  the  dark  all  cats  are  f/rai/.  All 
persons  are  undistinguished  till  they 
have  made  a  name. 

Not  room  to  swing  a  cat.  Swinging 
cats  as  a  mark  for  sportsmen  was  at  one 
time  a  favourite  amusement.  Timers 
were  several  varieties  of  this  diversion. 
Sometimes  two  cats  were  swung  by  their 
tails  over  a  rope.  Sometimes  a  cat  was 
swung  to  the  bough  of  a  tree  in  a  bag 
or  sack.  Sometimes  it  was  enclosed  in 
a  leather  bottle. 

Sick  as  a  cat.  Cats  are  very  subject 
to  vomiting.  Hence  the  vomit  of  a 
drunkard  is  called  "  a  cat,"  and  the  act 
of  discarding  it  is  called  "  shooting  the 
cat." 

let  the  cat  out  of  the  hag.  To  disclose 
a  secret.  It  was  formerly  a  trick  among 
country  folk  to  substitute  a  cat  for  a 
sucking-i^ig,  and  bring  it  in  a  bag  to 
market.  If  any  greenhorn  chose  to  buy 
a  "pig  in  a  poke  "  without  examination, 
all  very  well ;  but  if  be  opened  the  sack, 
"  he  let  the  cat  out  of  the  bag,"  and  the 
trick  was  disclosed. 

"  She  let  the  cat  out  of  her  bag  of  verse  .  .  . 
she  almost  proposed  to  her  hero  in  rhyme."— 
George  ileiedith :  The  EgotiM,  iii. 

To  bell  the  cat.  {See  page  119,  Bell.) 
To  turn  cat-in-pan.  To  turn  traitor, 
to  be  a  turncoat.  The  phrase  seems 
to  be  the  French  tourner  cote  oi  peine  (to 
tuni  .sides  in  trouble).  I  do  not  think  it 
refers  to  turning  pancakes. 

"  When  Genrse  in  piuUlins-tinie  came  o'er 
And  moderate  men  looked  liiff,  sir. 
I  turned  a  cat-in-pan  once  more, 
And  so  became  a  Whif;,  sir." 

Vicar  of  Braij. 
■.'  Bacon  says,  "  There  is  a  cunning  which  we  in 
England  call  the  turning  of  the  cat  in  the  pan; 
which  is.  when  that  which  a  mau  says  to  another, 
he  says  it  as  if  another  had  said  it  to  him." 

Touch  not  a  cat  bat  a  glove.  Here 
"but"  is  used  in  its  original  meaning 
of  "  beout,"  i.e.  without.  (For  another 
example  of  "  but  "  meaning  without,  see 
Amos  iii.  7.)  The  words  are  the  motto 
of  Mackintosh,  whose  crest  is  "  cat-a- 
mountain  salient  guardant  proper ' '  ; 
supporters,  two  cats  proper.  The  whole 
is  a  pun  on  the  word  Catti,  the  Teutonic 


Cat  Proverbs 


22i 


Catacomb 


settlers  of  Caithness,  i.r.  Catti-ness, 
aud  meau,  "Touch  not  the  chiu  Cattan 
or  Mountain  Cat  without  a  glaive." 
The  same  words  are  the  adopted  motto 
of  Grant  of  Ballindalloch,  aud  are  ex- 
plained by  the  second  motto,  ciit<c  ct 
an'imo. 

In  French :  On  ne  prend  pas  tol  chat  sans 
nioufles. 

What  can  you  have  of  a  cat  but  her 
skill  >  The  thing  is  useless  for  any  pur- 
pose but  one.  In  former  times  the 
cat's  fur  was  used  for  trimming  cloaks 
aud  coats,  but  the  flesh  is  utterly  use- 
less. 

Who  ate  the  cat  ?  A  gentleman  who 
had  his  larder  frequently  assailed  by 
bargees,  had  a  cat  cooked  and  placed 
there  as  a  decoy.  It  was  taken  like  the 
other  foods,  and  became  a  standing  jest 
against  these  larder  pilferers. 

A  Cheshire  cat.  He  ffrlns  like  a 
Chrsliire  cat.  Cheese  was  fonneriy  sold 
in  Cheshire  moulded  like  a  cat.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  grinning  cheese-cat, 
but  is  applied  to  f)ersons  who  show  their 
teeth  and  gums  when  they  laugh.  (See 
AJice  in  Wonderland.) 

A  Kitkcnni/  cat.  The  story  is  that, 
during  the  rebellion  of  Ireland,  Kil- 
kenny was  garrisoned  by  a  troop  of 
Hessian  soldiers,  who  amused  them- 
selves m  barracks  by  tying  two  ca'.s 
together  by  their  tails  aud  throwing 
them  across  a  clothes-line  to  fight.  The 
officers,  hearing  of  this,  resolved  to  jnit 
a  stop  to  the  practice.  The  look-out 
man,  enjoying  the  sport,  did  not  observe 
the  officer  on  duty  ajiproachiug  the  bar- 
racks; but  oue  of  the  troopers,  more 
quick-sighted,  seizing  a  sword,  cut  the 
two  tails,  aud  the  cats  made  their 
escape.  When  the  officer  inquired  the 
meaning  of  the  two  bleeding  tails,  he 
was  coolly  told  that  two  cats  had  been 
fighting  aud  had  devoured  each  other 
all  but  the  tails. 

V  Whatever  the  true  story,  it  is 
certain  that  the  municiiialities  of  Kil- 
keuuy  aud  Irishtown  contended  so 
stoutly  about  their  resjiective  bound- 
aries aud  rights  to  the  end  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  that  they  mutually 
imijoverished  each  other,  leaving  little 
else  than  "  two  tails  "  behind. 

Whittington''s  cat.  A  cat  is  a  ship 
formed  on  the  Norwegian  model,  having 
a  narrow  stern,  projecting  quarters,  and 
deep  waist.  It  is  strongly  built,  aud 
used  in  the  coal  trade.  Harrison  speaks 
of  it  as  a  ' '  cat "  or  "  catch . ' '  Accortling 
to  tradition,  Sir  Richard  Whittington 
made  his  money   by  trading  in   coals, 


which  he  conveyed  in  his  "cat"  from 
Newcastle  to  Loudon.  The  black  faces 
of  his  coal-heavers  gave  rise  to  the  tale 
about  the  Moors.  In  confirmation  of 
this  suggestion,  it  may  be  added  that 
Whittington  was  Lord  Mayor  in  1397, 
and  coal  was  first  made  an  article  of 
trade  from  Newcastle  to  Loudon  in 
1381. 

Cat's  Cradle.  A  child's  play,  with 
a  piece  of  twine.  Corruj)t  for  cratch - 
cradle  or  manger  cradle,  iu  which  the 
infant  Saviour  was  laid.  Cratch  is  the 
French  creche  (a  rack  or  manger),  aud 
to  the  present  liour  the  racks  which 
stand  in  fields  for  cattle  to  cat  from  are 
called  cratches. 

Cat's  Foot.  To  lire  under  the  cat''s 
foot.  To  be  under  petticoat  government ; 
to  be  henpecked.  A  mouse  under  the 
paw  of  a  cat  lives  but  by  sufferance  and 
at  the  cat's  pleasure. 

Cat's  Melody  {The).    Squalling. 

"The  ( liililri'M  were  playinj,-  tlio  rat's  nieh)dy  to 
keep  I  heir  liidlier  In  CiHinleiiaiice."— U'.  B.  Yeatu  -. 
Fiiirn  ■J'lilc-iofihe  Iiit^li  riitsdiitrii,  p.  L'.'iK. 

Cat's  Paw.  To  be  made  a  cafs  paw 
of,  i.e.  the  tool  of  another,  the  medium 
of  doing  another's  dirty  work.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  fable  of  the  monkey 
who  wanted  to  get  from  the  fire  some 
roasted  chestnuts,  aud  took  the  paw  of 
the  cat  to  get  them  from  the  hot  ashes. 

"  I  hail  nil  intention  iif  beconiinK  a  cat's  paw  to 
(li-aw  EuiMpean  rhestnuis  out  of  the  llie.'— Com. 
Jlorhirrs. 

At  sea,  light  air  during  a  cahn  causing 
a  rij^ple  on  the  water,  and  indicating  a 
storm,  is  called  by  sailors  a  cafs  paw, 
and  seamen  affirm  that  the  frolics  of  a 
cat  indicate  a  gale.  These  are  relics  of 
a  superstition  that  cats  are  witches  or 
demons  in  disguise. 

Cat's  Sleep.  A  sham  sleeji,  like  that 
of  a  cat  watching  a  mouse. 

Cats. 

Mistress  Tofts,  the  singer,  left  legacies 
at  death  to  twenty  cats. 
"  Xnt  Niolie  nionrnerl  more  for  fourteen  Iirats, 
Isor  Mistress  Tofts,  to  leave  her  twenty  cats." 
I'etcr  Pindar:  VM  Simon. 

Catacomb.  A  subterranean  place 
for  the  burial  of  the  dead.  The  Persians 
have  a  city  they  call  Comb  or  Cooiii,  full 
of  mausoleums  and  the  sepulchres  of 
the  Persian  saints.  (Greek,  kata-humbe, 
a    hollow    place    imderground. )      {See 

KOOM.) 

"  The  most  awful  idea  connected  with  the  cata- 
combs is  their  interminable  extent,  and  the 
possibility  of  going  astray  in  the  labyrinth  of 
darkness."— ifaiftftorne :  Marble  Faun,  iii. 


Catalan  225 


Catai'an  (3  syl.).  A  native  of  Cathay 
or  China ;  outlandish,  a  foreigner  gener- 
ally, a  liar. 

"  I  will  not  believe  such  a  Catalan,  tbougb  tlie 
priest  of  the  town  coniuiended  bim  for  a  true 
nmn."— Shakespeare :  Merry  ]\'ives,  ii.  1. 

Catalogue  Raisonn^  (French).  A 
catalogue  of  hooks  arranged  under  suh- 
jects. 

Catamaran.  A  scraggy  old  woman, 
a  vixen  ;  so  called  l)y  a  play  on  the  first 
syllable.  It  projjerly  means  a  raft  con- 
sisting of  three  sticks,  lashed  together 
with  ropes ;  used  on  the  coasts  of  Coro- 
mandel  and  Madras. 

"No,  you  old  catamaran,  tliouglt  you  pretend 

you  ne\  er  read  novels "—Thackeray  :  Lovel 

the  Widower,  cbap.  i. 

Cataphryg'ians.  Christian  heretics, 
who  arose  in  the  second  century ;  so 
called  because  the  first  lived  in  I'hryc/ia. 
They  followed  the  errors  of  Monta'nus. 

Catarrh.  A  cold  in  the  head.  The 
word  means  a  down-running  ;  from  the 
Greek  hainrrhco  (to  flow  down). 

Catastrophe  (4  sji.).  A  turning 
upside  down.  The  tennination  of  a 
drama  is  always  a  "  turning  upside 
down "  of  the  beginning  of  the  plot. 
(Greek,  hatn-drepho. ) 

Catch. 

To  lie  upon  the  cciic/i.  To  lie  in  wait. 
"  Quid  me  captas?^^ 

"  Tbey  sent  certain  of  tbe  Pharisees  ....  to 
catch  Him  in  His  words."— 3frtrfc  .\ii.  Here  the 
Greek  word  is  aypevot,  to  take  by  hunting.  Tbey 
were  to  lie  upon  tbe  catch  till  tbey  found  occasion 
against  Him. 

YouUl  catch-  it.  You'll  get  severely 
punished.  Here  "it"  stands  for  the 
indefinite  punishment,  such  as  a  whijo- 
ping,  a  scolding,  or  other  unjileasant 
consequence. 

Catch  a  Crab  (To).  In  rowing,  is  to 
be  struck  with  the  handle  of  one's  oar  ; 
to  fall  backwards.  This  occurs  when 
the  rower  leaves  his  oar  too  long  in  the 
water  before  repeating  the  stroke.  In 
Italian  grancMo  is  a  crab,  and  pigliar  il 
(jranchio  is  to  "catch  a  crab,"  or  a 
Tartar. 

Catch  a  Tartar.  The  biter  bit. 
Grose  says  an  Irish  soldier  in  the  Im- 
perial service,  in  a  battle  against  the 
Turks,  shouted  to  his  comrade  that  he 
had  caught  a  Tartar.  ' '  Bring  him  along, 
then,"  said  his  mate.  '"But  he  won't 
come,"  cried  Paddy.  "  Then  come  along 
yourself,"  said  his  comrade.    "  Arrahl  " 

15 


Catclipole 

replied  Paddy,  "I  wish  I  could,  but  he 
won't  let  me." 

"We  are  like  tbe  man  who  boasted  of  having 
caught  a  Tartar,  when  the  fact  was  that  tbe 
Tartar  had  cnugbt  h\m."—Ciiiitions  for  the  Times. 

Catch  as  Catch  can.  Get  by  hook 
or  crook  all  you  can. 

"All  must  catch  that  catch  can"  — Johnson  : 
Rambler,  No.  VJi. 

Catch  Me  at  It!  Most  certainly  I 
shall  never  do  what  you  say. 

"'Catch  uie  going  to  Lond(ra!'  exclaimed 
Vi.xen."— .l/(ss  Braddon  :  Vixen. 

Catch  the  Speaker's  Eye  (To).  To 
find  the  eye  of  the  Speaker  fixed  on  you  ; 
to  be  observed  by  the  Speaker.  Iii  the 
House  of  Commons  the  member  on 
whom  the  eye  of  the  Speaker  is  fixed 
has  the  privilege  of  addi-essiug  the 
House. 

"  He  succeeded  in  catching  the  Speaker's  eye." 
—A.  Trollopc. 

Catch  Out  (To).  In  cricket,  is  to 
catch  the  ball  of  a  bat.sman,  whereby 
the  striker  is  ruled  out,  that  is,  must  re- 
linquish his  bat. 

Catch  your  Hare  (First).  It  is 
generally  believed  that  "Mrs.  Glasse," 
in  her  Coo/ccri/  Boo/c,  gave  this  direction  ; 
but  the  exact  words  are,  "Take  your 
hare  when  it  is  cased,  and  make  a  pud- 
ding, .  .  .  etc."  To  "case"  means  to 
take  off  the  skin.  Thus,  in  AlPs  Well 
that  E)uts  Well,  iii.  6,  we  have  these 
words,  "We'll  make  you  some  sport  with 
the  fox  ere  we  case  him."  Sea tch  also 
means  to  skin,  and  this  word  gave  rise 
to  the  misquoted  catch.  Though  scatch 
and  case  both  mean  to  skin,  yet  the 
word  used  in  the  book  referred  to  is  case, 
not  scatch.  Mrs.  Glasse  was  the  pen- 
name  of  Dr.  John  Hill  (1716-1775), 
author  of  21>e  Coolicry  Booh.  (iSee  Case.) 

Bracton,  however  (book  iv.  tit.  i. 
chap.  xxi.  sec.  4),  has  these  words  : 
"  Vulgariter  dicititr,  quod  primo  oportet 
ccrviDii  capere,  et  poatca  (cum  captiis 
fiierit)  illam  ea-coriare.'" 

*«  The  "Welsh  word  each  =  ordiu'e, 
dung,  and  to  each  (cackii)  would  be  to 
clean  and  gut  the  hare. 

Catch-Club.  A  member  of  the  Catch- 
cli(b.  A  bum-bailiff,  a  tij)staff,  a  con- 
stable.    The  pun  is  obvious. 

Catchpenny.  A  worthless  article 
puffed  off  to  catch  the  pennies  of  those 
who  are  foolish  enough  to  buy  them. 

Catchpole.  A  constable ;  a  law 
officer  whose  business  it  was  to  appre- 
hend criminals.  Pole  or  poll  means 
head,  person ;  and  the  word  means  one 


Catch  "Weiglits 


226 


Catharine  "Wheels 


who  catches  persons  by  the  poll  or  neck. 
This  was  done  by  means  of  an  instru- 
ment something  like  a  shepherd's  crook. 

"CaccUepnles,  from  cntch  and  pole,  because 
these  ofticers  lay  linkl  nf  a  mans  neck.''— M'idt''; 
New  Ttstameitt  (Acts  xvi.,  Glossary^ 

Catch  Weights,  in  racing,  means 
without  restrictions  as  to  weight. 

Catch-word.  A  popular  cry,  a  word 
or  a  i^hrase  adopted  by  any  party  for 
political  or  other  purposes.  "Three 
acres  and  a  cow,"  "A  living  wage," 
are  examples. 

Catch-word.  Tlie  first  word  on  any 
page  of  a  book  or  manuscript  which  is 
printed  or  Avritten  at  the  foot  of  the 
preceding  page.  In  the  early  days  of 
printing  the  catch-word  was  generally 
used,  but  for  the  last  two  himdred  years 
the  practice  has  been  gradually  dying 
out.  Its  purpose  was,  among  other 
things,  to  enable  the  reader  to  avoid  an 
awkward  pause  when  turning  over  a 
leaf.  The  first  book  so  printed  was  a 
Tacitus,  by  John  de  Spii'a,  1-1G9. 

Catch-word.  In  theatrical  parlance, 
is  the  last  word  or  so  of  the  previous 
speaker,  which  is  the  cue  of  the  per^n 
who  follows. 

Catechu'men  {^Icat'ij-kn'mcii'].  One 
taught  by  word  of  mouth  (Greek,  kate- 
chou'inows).  Those  about  to  be  bap- 
tised in  the  early  Church  were  first 
taught  by  word  of  mouth,  and  then 
catechised  on  their  religious  faith  and 
duties. 

Cater-cousin.  An  intimate  fiiend ; 
a  remote  kinsman.  (French,  quaire- 
coHsiu,  a  foiu'th  cousin). 

"His  master  and  lie,  saving  your  worsliip's 
reverence,  are  scarce  cater-cousins."— .^/inA-e- 
speare :  Merchant  of  Venice,  ii.  j'. 

Caterpillars.  Soldiers.  In  1745  a 
soldier,  quartered  at  Derby,  was  desired 
by  the  landlord  to  call  on  him  whenever 
he  passed  that  way,  for,  added  Boniface, 
' '  I  consider  soldiers  the  pillars  of  the 
state."  When  the  rebellion  was  jmt 
down,  it  so  happened  that  tlie  same 
regiment  was  quartered  in  Derby,  and 
the  soldier  called  on  his  old  host,  but 
was  very  coldly  and  somewhat  im- 
civilly  received.  The  soldier  reminded 
Boniface  of  what  he  said  at  parting — "  I 
consider  soldiers  the  pillars  of  the  state." 
"Did  I  say  so?"  said  mine  host,  "Well, 
I  meant  cater-piUars. " 

Caterwauling.  The  wawl  or  wrawl 
of  cats ;  the  cr  being  either  a  plural, 


similar  to    "childer"    {cliildrcn),   or  a 
corrupted  genitive. 

"What  a  caterwauline  do  vou  keep  here!" — 
Sliake.'peare :  Twelfth  Xiiihf,i\.S. 

Catgut.  A  contracted  form  of  cat  tie - 
gut,  especially  sheep.  Another  form  is 
catliiif/-gui,  i.e.  cattle-iug  gut.  In  Gen. 
XXX.  40  we  read  that  Jacol)  did  separate 
"  his  own  flocks  by  themselves,  and  put 
them  not  unto  Laban's  cattle  [i.e. 
sheep]."  Again,  in  xxxi.  9,  Jacob  said, 
"  God  hath  taken  away  the  cattle  [sheep 
and  lambs]  of  your  father,  and  given 
them  to  me ; "  and  verse  43  he  saj-s, 
"  These  cattle  [sheep  and  lambs]  are  my 
cattle." 

*.'  Musical  strings  never  were  made 
from  the  gut  of  a  cat. 

Catgut  Scraper  (A).    A  fiddler. 

Cath'ari.  Novatian  heretics.  The 
Waldenses  were  subsequently  so  called. 
{DueaiKje :  vol.  ii.  p.  288,  col.  2.) 

Cath'arine.  To  braid  St.  Catharine'' s 
tresses.     To  Hve  a  virgin. 

"Tliou  art  loo  fair  to  be  left  to  braid  St.  Catha- 
rines tresses."  Lougfelloio :  Evuuijctine. 

Catharine  {Knights  of  St.),  1714.  A 
Russian  military  order  founded  by  Peter 
the  Great  after  his  naval  victory  of 
Aland,  and  so  named  in  compliment  to 
his  wife  Catharine. 

Catharine  of  Kussia.  A  sutler. 
When  Czar  Peter  wished  to  marry  her, 
it  was  needful  to  make  her  of  noble 
birth  ;  so  a  private  person  was  first  con- 
verted into  her  brother,  and  then  into  a 
great  lord  by  birth.  Hence  Catharine, 
being  the  sister  of  a  "  great  lord,"  was 
made  fit  to  be  the  wife  of  the  Czar. 
{I)e  Casinc :  Russia,  chap,  iv.) 

Catharine  Theot  (172o-179o).  A 
visionary  born  at  Avranches,  who  gave 
herself  out  to  be  (like  Joanna  Southcott) 
the  mother  of  God,  and  changed  her 
name  Theot  into  Theos  (God).  She 
preached  in  Paris  in  1794,  at  the  very 
time  that  the  worshij)  of  the  Supreme 
Being  was  instituted,  and  declared  that 
Robespierre  was  the  forerumier  of  tlie 
WORD.  The  Comite  de  la  Siirete 
Generale  had  her  arrested,  and  she  was 
guillotined.  Catharine  Theot  was  called 
by  Dom  Gerle  "  la  mere  ilc  dieu,^^  and 
Catharine  called  Robespierre  "  her  well- 
beloved  son  and  chief  prophet." 

Catharine  Wheel  {A).  A  sort  of 
firework.     {See  below.) 

Catharine  Wheels.  To  turn  Cath- 
arine Wheels.    To  turn  head  over  heels 


Catharine-'wlieel 


227 


Catholic 


on  the  hands.  Boys  in  the  streets,  etc., 
often  do  so  to  catch  a  penny  or  so  from 
trippers  and  others. 

A  Cathar'iHc-whcd  irindoic.  A  wheel- 
window,  sometimes  called  a  rose- win- 
dow, with  radiating  divisions.  St. 
Catharine  was  a  virgin  of  royal  descent 
in  Alexandria,  who  publicly  confessed 
the  Christian  faith  at  a  sacrificial  feast 
appointed  by  the  Emperor  Maximi'nus, 
for  wliich  confession  she  was  put  to 
death  by  torture  by  means  of  a  wheel 
like  that  of  a  chaff-cutter. 

Catharine-wheel    Politicians. 

Lovers  of  political  changes. 

Catharine- wheel  Republics.  "Ee- 
publics,"  says  Mr.  Lowell,  '"always  in 
revolution  wliile  the  powder  lasts." 

Cath'arists.  A  sect  of  the  Mani- 
cheans  ;  so  called  from  their  professed 
purit])  of  faith.  (Greek,  knth'aros,  pure.) 
They  maintained  that  matter  is  the 
source  of  all  evil :  that  Christ  had  not  a 
real  body ;  that  the  human  body  is  in- 
capable of  newness  of  Ufe  ;  and  that  the 
sacraments  do  not  convey  grace,  ijice 
Diicange  :  vol.  ii.  p.  289,  col.  1.) 

Cathay'.  China,  or  rather  Tartary, 
the  capital  of  which  was  Albrac'ca,  ac- 
cording to  Orlando  Furioso.  It  was 
called  Khita'i  by  the  Tartars,  and  China 
was  first  entered  by  Europeans  in  the 
Middle  Ages  from  the  side  of  Tartarj-. 

'■Better  fifty  years  of  Eiimiie  than  a  cycle  of 
Cathay."  Ti/iinysuii :  Locksley  Hall. 

Cathedrae  Molles  (Latin).  Luxu- 
rious women.  Pro25erly,  soft  chairs. 
The  cathedra  was  a  chair  for  women, 
like  our  ottoman :  and  Juvenal  applies 
the  soft  chair  used  by  women  of  dainty 
habits  to  the  women  who  use  them. 

Cathedrals  of  the  Old  Founda- 
tion. Those  which  have  never  been 
monastic,  but  which  have  ab  initio  been 
governed  by  a  dean  and  chapter,  with 
the  statutable  dignities  of  jjrecentor, 
chancellor,  and  treasurer. 

Catherans  or  Caterai/s.  Highland 
freebooters  or  marauders.  (Lowland 
Scotch,  catherein,  peasantry.) 

Catherine.     {Sec  Cathaei>-e.) 

Catholic  {The).  "  Cafholicus,"  a 
title  inlierited  by  the  King  of  Spain  ;  as 
the  monarch  of  England  is  entitled 
"Fidei  Defensor,"  and  the  Kiug  of 
France  was  styled  "  Christianissimus." 
{Sec  page  228,  Catholic  Majesty.) 

Catholic  Association  {The),  1756. 
The  first  Catholic  Association  was  formed 


for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  relief  from 
disabilities.  In  1760  the  association  was 
re-established  on  a  more  representative 
basis,  but  it  became  moribimd  in  1763. 
Another  association  was  organised  in 
1773,  which  fell  under  the  control  of 
Lord  Kenmare  :  this  society  was  broken 
up  1783.  In  1793  a  new  society  was 
formed  on  a  still  wider  basis,  and  Wolfe 
Tone  was  elected  secretary.  In  1 793  the 
Catholic  Relief  Bill  received  the  Eoyal 
Assent. 

In  Ireland,  1823 ;  suppressed  182o  (6 
Geo.  iv.  c.  4) ;  dissolved  itself  February, 
1829.  The  association  was  first  suggested 
by  Daniel  O'Connell  at  a  dinner-party 
given  by  Mr.  O'Mara  at  Glaucullen,  and 
on  Monday,  May  12th,  the  first  meeting 
of  the  association  was  held  in  Dempsey's 
Rooms,  Sackville  Street.  It  became  one  of 
the  most  powerful  ^jopular  movements 
ever  organised.  The  objects  were  :  (1)  to 
forward  petitions  to  Parliament ;  (2)  to 
afford  relief  to  Catholics  assailed  by 
Orange  lodges  ;  (3)  to  support  a  Liberal 
press  both  in  Dublin  and  London ;  (4) 
to  circulate  cheap  publications  ;  (.5)  to 
aid  the  Irish  Catholics  of  America ;  and 
(6)  to  aid  English  Catholics.  Indirectly 
it  undertook  the  repeal  of  the  Union, 
and  the  redress  of  Irish  grievances 
generally.  Everj'one  who  paid  Id.  a 
month  was  a  member.  {See  Catholic 
Emaxcipatiox.) 

Catholic  Church  ( The) .  The  Church 
considered  as  a  whole,  as  distinguished 
from  parish  churches.  When  the  Wes- 
tern Chiu-ch  broke  off  from  the  Eastern, 
the  Eastern  Church  called  itself  the 
Orthodox  Church,  and  the  Western 
Church  adopted  the  tenn  Catholic.  At 
the  Reformation  the  Western  Churcli 
was  called  by  the  Refonners  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  and  the  British  Estab- 
lished Church  was  called  the  "Protes- 
tant Church,"  the  "  Reformed  National 
Church,"  or  the  ''  Anglo  -  Catholic 
Church."  It  is  foolish  and  misleadirig 
to  call  the  Anglican  Church  the  Catholic 
Church,  as  at  most  it  is  only  a  branch 
thereof.  No  Protestant  would  think  of 
calling  himself  a  Catholic. 

Catholic  Emancipation  Act  {TJu). 
10  Geo.  IV.  c.  7,  April  i;;t)i,  18--'!i, 
whereby  Catholics  were  admitted  to  all 
corporate  offices,  and  to  an  equal  enjoy- 
ment of  all  municipal  rights.  The  anny 
and  navy  had  been  already  opened  to 
them.  They  were,  however,  excluded 
from  the  following  offices:   (1)  Regent; 

(2)  Chancellor  of  England  or  Ireland  ; 

(3)  Viceroy  of  Ireland ;    (4)  all  ofBccs 


Catholic  Epistles 


228 


Catted 


connected  with  the  Church,  universities, 
and  public  schools  ;  and  (o)  the  disposal 
of  Church  i^atrouage. 

Catholic  Epistles  (The)  of  the  New 
Testament  are  those  Epistles  not  ad- 
dressed to  any  jiarticular  church  or 
individual.  Conventionally  they  are 
seven— viz.  1  James,  2  Peter,  1  Judo, 
and  3  John  ;  but  2  John  is  addressed  to 
a  "lady,"  and  3  John  to  Gains,  and,  of 
course,  are  not  Catholic  Epistles  either 
in  matter  or  otherwise. 

Catholic  King  (^Tltc)  or  His  C'athuUc 
Mdjoitij.  A  title  given  by  the  Pope  to 
Ferdinand,  King  of  Aragou  (l-l'Vi,  1474- 
lolG),  for  exjiclling  the  Moors  from 
Spain.  'Ihis  was  about  as  unwise  as 
the  revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes  >)y 
Louis  XIV. 

Catholic  League  {The),  1614.  A 
confederacy  of  Catholics  to  counter- 
balance the  Evangelic  League  {q.r.)  of 
Bohemia.  The  two  Leagues  kept  Ger- 
many iu  perpetual  disturbance,  and 
ultimately  kd  to  the  Tliirty  Years'  War 
(1618-1648). 

Catholic  Majesty,  759.  A  title 
given  by  Gregory  III.  to  Alfonso  I., 
King  of  Asturias. 

Catholic  Relief.  [Hve  Catholic 
Association.) 

Catholic  Rent  (77^0,  l^'^'^-'^-  The 
subscriiitiou  of  Id.  jier  month  towards 
the  expenses  of  the  Catholic  Association 

Catholic  Roll  {The).  A  document 
which  each  Roman  Catholic  was  obliged 
to  swear  to  on  taking  his  seat  as  a 
Member  of  Parliament.  It  was  abolished, 
and  a  single  oatli  prescribed  to  all 
members  by  the  29,  30  Victoria,  c.  19 
(1866). 

Catholi'con.  A  panace'a.  (Greek, 
katholkoii  iaiiia,  a  universal  remedy.) 

"Meanvbile,  permit  me  tn  recommend, 
As  the  matter  admits  of  no  delay, 
;M.v  wonderful  catLolicon." 

LuwjfeUoii; :  'Die  Golden  Legend,  i. 

Catholicos.  The  head  of  the  Assy- 
rian Nestorians.  Now  called  the 
Patriarch  of  Armenia. 

Catiline's  Conspiracy.  Lucius 
Sergius  Catiliua,  B.C.  64,  conspired  with 
a  large  nvimber  of  dissolute  young  nobles 
to  plunder  the  Eoman  treasury,  extir- 
pate the  senate,  and  fire  the  capitol. 
Cicero,  who  was  consul,  got  full  infor- 
mation of  the  plot,  and  delivered  his 
first  Oration  against  Catiline  November 


8th,  63,  whereupon  Catiline  quitted 
Rome.  Next  day  Cicero  delivered  his 
second  Oration,  and  several  of  the  con- 
spirators were  arrested.  On  December 
4th  Cicero  made  his  third  Oration, 
respecting  what  punishment  shoidil  be 
accorded  to  the  consi^irators.  And  on 
December  .'ith,  after  his  fourth  Oration, 
sentence  of  death  was  jmssed.  Catiline 
tried  to  escape  into  Gaul,  but,  being 
intercepted,  he  was  slain  fighting,  B.C. 
64. 

Catilines  and  Cethe'gi  {Tin).  Sy- 
nonyms for  conspirators  who  liope  to 
mend  their  fortunes  by  rebellion. 

"The  !iitri,;,'iies  of  a  few  imp  iverislicd  Catilines 
and  CethL'b'i."— j;o»(')/;  Dutch  Itipiibliv. 

Catius.  In  Pope's  floral  Essen/s 
(Ejiist.  i. ),  inteuded  for  Charles  Darti- 
neuf,  a  kind  of  Lucullus,  who  preferred 
"A  rogue  with  venison  to  a  rogue 
without." 

Catkins.  The  inflorescence  of  hazel, 
birch,  willow,  and  some  other  trees ;  fo 
called  from  their  resemblance  to  a  cat's 
tail. 

"  See  the  yellow  catkins  cover 
All  the  slender  willows  over." 
Martj  llowitt :  Vvice  ofSfirintj,  stanza  I'. 

Cat-lap.  Milk  or  weak  tea,  only  fit 
for  the  cat  to  lap. 

"  A  more  accomplished  old  wim  an  never  drank 
cat-lap."— .SVc  \V.,-(utl:  ncdijamitlet,  chap.  xii. 

Cato.  Jfc  is  a  Cato.  A  man  of 
simple  life,  severe  morals,  self-denying 
habits,  strict  justice,  brusque  manners, 
blunt  of  speech,  and  of  undoubted 
patriotism,  hke  the  Roman  censor  of 
that  name. 

Cato-Street  Conspiracy.  A  scheme 
entertained  by  Arthur  Thistlewood  and 
his  fellow-conspirators  to  overthrow  the 
Government  by  assassinating  the 
Cabinet  Ministers.  So  called  from  Cato 
Street,  where  their  meetings  were  held. 
(1820.) 

V  The  other  names  of  these  conspir- 
ators are  Brunt,  Davidson,  Harrison, 
Ings,  Monument,  Tidd,  and  Wilson. 
All  eight  were  sent  to  the  Tower,  March 
3rd,  1820,  by  warrant  of  the  Secretary 
of  State. 

Catsup  or  Ketchup.  The  Eastern 
hitjap  (soy  sauce). 

Catted.  The  anchor  hung  on  the 
cathead,  a  piece  of  timber  outside  the 
ship  to  which  the  anchor  is  himg  to  keep 
it  clear  of  the  ship. 

"The  decks  were  all  life  and  commotion;  the 
sailors  on  the  forecastle  singing, '  Ho  !  cheerly, 
men  !' as  they  catted  the  auchor."— if.  Melville: 
Owjoo,  xxxvi.  p.  191. 


Catual 


229 


Causa  Causata 


Cat'ual.  Chief  minister  of  the  Zam'- 
orin  or  ancient  sovereign  of  India. 

"  Begirt  with  liiKli-iilmiied  iicil]les,  l)y  the  flood 
Tbe  tii'st  great  minister  of  India  stood, 
His  name  '  tlie  L'atii:il'  in  India's  tongue." 
Caiiwcns:  Limiad,  liook  vii. 

Catum  (AI)  [the  sfroiir/].  A  bow 
which  fell  into  the  hands  of  Mahomet 
when  the  jiroperty  of  the  Jews  of  Medi'na 
was  confiscated.  In  the  first  battle  the 
prophet  drew  it  with  such  force  that  it 
snapped  in  two. 

Catwater.  The  estuary  of  the  Plym 
(Plymouth).  A  corruption  of  c/idtca/t 
(chat-eau)  ;  as  the  castle  at  the  mouth 
of  the  Plym  used  to  be  called. 

Caucasians,  according  to  Blumen- 
bach's  ethnological  system,  represent 
the  European  or  highest  type  of  the 
human  race  ;  so  called  from  Cau'casus, 
the  mountainous  range.  Whilst  the 
professor  was  studying  ethnology,  he 
was  supplied  with  a  skull  from  these 
regions,  which  he  considered  the  stand- 
ard of  the  human  type. 

Caucus.  A  meeting  of  citizens  in 
America  to  agree  upon  what  members 
they  intend  to  support,  and  to  concert 
measures  for  carrying  out  their  political 
wishes.  The  word  arose  from  the 
caulkers  of  Boston,  who  had  a  disjiute 
with  the  British  soldiers  a  little  before 
the  Revolution.  Several  citizens  were 
killed,  and  meetings  were  held  at  the 
caulkers'  house  or  calk-liOKse,  to  conceit 
measures  for  redress  of  grievances. 

"Tlie  wliole  Fenian  affair  is  merely  a  caucus  in 
disguise."— T/ic  Timex. 

"Tliis'dav  tlje  caucus  club  meets  ...  in  tlie 
garret  of  Tom  Dawes,  tlie  adjutant  of  the  Boston 
regiment."— J"/iH  Adams:  Diary,  vol.  ii.  p.  104, 
l<'el)ru:u'y,  1763. 

Caudine  Forks.  A  narrow  pass  in 
the  mountains  near  Capua,  now  called 
the  Valley  of  Arpaia.  It  was  here  that 
the  Roman  army,  under  the  consuls  T. 
Veturius  Calvi'nus  and  Sp.  Postu'mius 
fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Samnites,  and 
were  made  to  pass  under  the  yoke. 

"Hard  as  it  was  to  aliandon  an  enterprise  so 
very  dear  to  him  ....  he  did  not  hesitate  to  take 
the  more  prudent  course  of  iiassiiig  under  i.v/ci 
the  Caudine  Forks  of  the  ilcuiroe  doi-irine,  and 
leave  Maximilian  ami  the  French  Irmidholders  to 
their  t:\ie  "Stamlard,  Xov.  Kill,  Isilii. 

Caudle  is  any  sloppy  mess,  especially 
that  sweet  mixture  given  Tiy  nurses  to 
gossips  who  call  to  see  the  baby  during 
the  first  mouth.  The  word  simply 
means  something  warm.  (Latin,  calidns; 
French,  chamlcau  ;  Italian,  cahlo.) 

Caudle  {Mrs.).  A  curtain  lecturer. 
The  term  is  derived  from  a  series  of 
papers  by  Douglas  Jerrold,  which  were 


published  in  Fioich.  These  papers  re- 
present Job  Caudle  as  a  patient  sufferer 
of  the  curtain  lectures  of  his  nagging 
wife. 

Caught  Napping  {To  be).  To  suffer 
some  disadvantage  while  oft"  one's  guard. 
Pheasants,  hares,  and  other  animals  are 
sometimes  surprised  "napping."  I 
have  myself  caught  a  cock-plieasant 
napping. 

Caul.  The  membrane  on  the  heads 
of  some  new-born  infants,  supposed  to 
be  a  charm  against  death  by  drowning. 

To  be  born  with  a  caul  was  with  the 
Romans  tantamount  to  our  phrase,  "  To 
be  born  with  a  silver  spoon  in  one's 
mouth,"  meaning  "  born  to  good  luck." 
M.  Francisque-Michel,  in  his  Philologie- 
Coiiipiirce,  p.  83,  4,  says:  '■^Calle,  espece 
de  eoiffi(re,  est  nijnoHyine  de  eoijfe,^''  and 
quotes  the  proverb,  "  Ste.  M'u/orce  !  nous 
sonunes  nees  coiffies.^''  {La  Conwdie  des 
Prorcrbes,  act  ii.  4.) 

Cauld-lad  {Tin)  of  Hilton  Hall.  A 
house-.spirit,  who  moved  about  the  fur- 
niture during  the  night.  Being  resolved 
to  baui.sh  him,  the  inmates  left  for  him 
a  green  cloak  and  hood,  before  the 
kitchen-fire,  which  so  delighted  him 
that  he  never  troubled  the  house  any 
more  ;  but  sometimes  he  might  be  heard 
singing — 

"  Here's  a  cloak,  and  here's  a  hood, 
The  cauld-lad  of  Hilton  will  do  no  more  good." 

Cauline  {Sir)  (2syl. ).  A  knight  who 
lived  in  the  palace  of  the  King  of  Ire- 
land, and  "used  to  serve  the  wine."  He 
fell  in  love  with  Christabelle,  the  king's 
daughter,  who  plighted  her  troth  to  him 
secretly,  for  fear  of  the  king.  The  king 
discovered  the  lovers  in  a  bower,  and 
banished  Sir  Cauline.  After  a  time  an 
eldridge  came,  and  demanded  the  lady 
in  marriage.  Sir  Cauline  slew  the 
"Soldain,"  but  died  of  the  woimds 
received  in  the  combat ;  and  the  fair 
Clu-istabelle  died  of  grief,  having  "burst 
her  gentle  hearte  in  twayue."  {Percifs 
lie/iqites,  iv.) 

Cau'rus  or  Co'rus.  The  west-north- 
west wind,  which  blew  from  Caurus 
(Argestes) . 

"The  ground  hv  piercing  Caurus  scared." 

Tlioiiisoit :  Cii-Mcof  Indolence,  ii.  7fi. 

Causa  Causans.  The  initiating 
cause  ;  the  primary  cause. 

Causa  Causata.  The  cause  which 
owes  its  existence  to  the  "  causa 
causans"  ;  the  secondary  cause. 


Cause 


230 


Cave 


V  The  vera  causa  is  («)  the  immediate 
predecessor  of  au  effect ;  {b)  a  cause  veri- 
tiable  by  iudepeudent  evidence.  {Mill.) 
Ill  tlieoliiRy  Gild  is  the  causa  ciiitaans,  ami  ciea- 
ticiii  ilie  ciKi.sii  rnH^lJd.  Tlie  presence  of  the  sun 
iibiivc  llie  hnri/.ou  is  the  vera  CKUsa  of  daylight, 
;iihI  his  wuhdiawal  l)eh)\v  the  horizou  is  tlie  vera 
i-aiiM  of  iiiu'lit. 

Cause  {The).  A  mission  ;  the  object 
or  i)rojuct. 

To  make  comnum  cause.  To  abet  the 
same  object.  Here  "cause"  is  the 
legal  term,  meaning  pro  or  co)i,  as  it 
may  be,  the  cause  or  side  of  the  question 
advocated. 

Cause  Celebre.  Any  famous  law  case. 

Causes.  Arlstutdian  (•««*•<?«  are  these 
four : 

(1)  The  FJficlent  Cause.  That  which 
immediately  produces  the  effect. 

(2)  The  Materliil  Cause.  The  matter 
on  which  (1)  works. 

(15)  The  Formal  Cause.  The  Essence  or 
"Form"  (=  group  of  attributes)  intro- 
duced into  the  matter  by  the  efficient 

CiillSG. 

(4)  The  Final  or  Ultimate  Cause.  The 
purpose  or  end  for  which  the  thing  exists 
or  the  can.sal  change  takes  place.  But 
God  is  called  the  ultimate  Final  Cause, 
since,  according  to  Aristotle,  all  tilings 
tend,  so  far  as  they  can,  to  realise  some 
Divine  attribute. 

V  God  is  also  called  The  First  Cause,  or 
the  Cause  Causeless,  beyond  which  even 
imagination  cannot  go. 

Cau'telous.  Cautious,  cunning, 
treacherous.  (Latin,  cautela  ;  French, 
cauteleux  ;  Spanish,  cautcloso.) 

"  Cauglit  with  cauteloiis  halts." 

Shakespeare :  Coriolaniis,  iv.  1. 
"Swear  priests  and  cowards  and  men  cauteloiis." 
Slialcespeare  :  Julius  C(esar,  ii.  1. 

Cau'ther  {AT).  The  lake  of  Paradise, 
the  waters  of  which  are  sweet  as  honey, 
cold  as  snow,  and  clear  as  crystal.  He 
who  once  tastes  thereof  vrill  never  thirst 
again.     {The  Koran.) 

Caution  Money.  A  sum  deposited 
before  entering  college,  by  way  of  se- 
curity. 

Caut  ser.    {See  Cauther.) 

Cava.  Cava's  traitor  sire.  Cava  or 
Florinda  was  the  daughter  of  St.  Julian. 
It  was  the  violation  of  Cava  by  Roderick 
that  brought  about  the  war  between  the 
Goths  and  the  Moors.  St.  Julian,  to 
avenge  his  daughter,  turned  traitor  to 
Roderick,  and  induced  the  Moors  to 
invade  Sjjain.  King  Roderick  was  slain 
at  Xeres  on  the  third  day.     (a.d.  711.) 


Cavalerie  i  Pied.      The   Zouavee 

(pronounce  zirar)  and  Zephyrs  of  the 
French  army  are  so  called  because  of  their 
fleetness  and  swiftness  of  foot. 

Cavalier  (3  syl.).  A  horseman ; 
whence  a  kniglit,  a  gentleman.  (Latin, 
caballus.  a  horse.) 

'The  Caralicr. 

Eon  de  Beaumont,  the  French  soldier  ; 
Cheralit-r  (PKo)!.     (172S-1810.) 

Charles  Breydel,  the  Flemish  laud- 
scape  painter.     (1077-1744.) 

Francesco  Cairo  {Caraliere  di'l  Cairo), 
historian.     (1;)98-1674.) 

Jean  le  Clerc,  le  chevalier.  (1587-1633.) 

J.  Battista  Marini,  Italian  jjoet ;  // 
cavalier  (1 009-1656). 

Andrew  Michael  Ramsay  (1686-17-13). 

Cavalier'  or  Chevalier  de  St.  George. 
James  Francis  Edward  Stuart,  called 
"the  Preteiuler,"  or  "the  Old  Pre- 
tender" (,1688-1765). 

The  Youiif/  (.'aralier  or  the  Bonnie 
Chevalier.  Edward,  the  "  Young  Pre- 
tender "  (1720-1785). 

Cavalier  Servant,  in  Italian  cicisbco, 
and   in   Spanish  cortejo.     A   gentleman 
that  chaperones  married  ladies. 
"Coach,  servants,  {.'ondola, lie  goes  to  call. 
And  carries  fan  and  tipiiet,  gloves  ami  shawl." 
Hyron  :  lieppo,  st .  x  1. 

Cavalie'rs.  Adherents  of  Charles  I. 
Those  of  the  opposing  Parliament  party 
were  called  Roundheads  {'/.v.). 

Cavall'.  ' '  King  Arthur's  hound  of 
deepest  mouth."  {Idylls  of  the  King; 
Enid.) 

Cave-dwellers.  (*<>  page  157,  col.  1, 
Bohemian  Beetheex.) 

Cave  In.  Shut  up  I  have  done  I  Vll 
cave  in  his  lieml  (break  it).  His  foriui/e 
has  cared  in  (has  failed).  The  bank  has 
caved  in  (come  to  a  smash).  The  affair 
caved  in  (fell  through) .  Common  Ameri- 
can expressions. 

In  the  lead  diggings,  after  a  shaft  has 
been  sunk,  the  earth  round  the  sides  falls 
or  eaves  in,  unless  proiierly  boarded  ;  and 
if  the  mine  does  not  answer,  no  care  is 
taken  to  prevent  a  caving  in. 

Cave  ne  literas  Bellerophontis 
adferras.  Take  care  that  the  letter 
you  carry  is  not  a  warrant  for  your 
death.     {See  page  121,  col.  1,  Bellee- 

OPHON.) 

Cave  of  Achadh  Aldai.  A  cairn  in 
Ireland,  so  called  from  Aldai,  the  an- 
cestor of  the  Tuatha  de  Danaan  kings. 

Cave  of  Adullam  {The).  {See  page 
17,  col.  1,  Adullamites.) 


Cave 


231 


Ceelict 


Cave  of  Mammon.  The  abode  of 
the  god  of  wealth  in  Spenser's  Faerie 
Qiiecne,  ii.  7. 

Cav'eat  (3  syl.) . 

To  enter  a  careat.  To  give  legal  notice 
that  the  opponent  is  not  to  proceed  with 
the  suit  in  hand  until  the  party  giving 
the  notice  has  been  heard ;  to  give  a 
warning  or  admonition. 

Cav'eat  Emptor.  The  buyer  must  be 
responsible  for  liis  own  free  act.  Let 
the  buyer  keeii  his  eyes  open,  for  the 
bargain  he  agrees  to  is  bindiag.  In 
English  law,  Chief  Justice  Tindal  modi- 
fied this  rule.  lie  said  if  the  buyer 
gives  notice  that  he  reUes  on  the  vendor's 
j  udgment,  and  the  vendor  warrants  the 
article,  then  the  vendor  is  bound  to 
furnish  an  article  "  reasonable  and  fit 
for  the  pui-pose  required." 

Cavell  or  Cavel,  A  parcel  or  allot- 
ment of  land  measured  by  a  cord  or 
cable.  (German,  kabel,  whence  kavchi, 
to  assign  by  lot.) 

Cavendish  Tobacco.  An  American 
brand  of  chewing  or  sinokiug  tobacco, 
prepared  for  use  by  softening,  sweeten- 
ing with  molasses,  and  pressing  into 
plugs.  Called  "Cavendish"  from  the 
original  manufacturer. 

Cav'iare  (3  syl.).  Caviare  to  the 
geiivral.  Above  the  taste  or  comprehen- 
sion of  ordinary  people.  Caviare  is  a 
kind  of  pickle  made  from  the  roe  of 
sturgeons,  much  esteemed  in  Muscovy. 
It  is  a  dish  for  the  great,  but  beyond  the 
reach  of  the  general  public.  {Samlet, 
ii.  2.) 

"  All  impular  talk  abinit  lacustrine  villages  and 
fliut  iiiiplemeuts  .  .  .  is  cawore  to  the  multitude." 
— Pall  Mall  Oazette. 

Cavo-rilie'vo.  "Relief,"  cut  below 
the  original  surface,  the  highest  parts  of 
the  figiu-e  being  on  a  level  with  the  sur- 
face. Also  called  Intaglio-riUevato  (pro- 
nounce cah'  -vo-rel-ije'  -vo). 

Caxon.  A  worn-out  wig ;  also  a  big 
cauliflower  wig,  worn  out  or  not.  It  has 
been  suggested  that  the  word  is  from 
the  proper  name,  but  nothing  whatever 
LS  known  about  such  a  person. 
"  People  scarce  could  decide  on  its  pbiz. 
Which  looked  wisest— the  caxon  or  jowl. 

Peter  Pindar  :  The  Purt/olio. 

CD.  i.e.  CateradesHut  (Lsitva).  The 
rest  [of  the  MS.]  is  wanting. 

Ce'an.     The  Cean  poet.     Simon'ides, 

of  Ce'os. 

"  The  Cean  and  the  Teian  muse." 

Byron :  Von  Juan  (The  Poet's  Song). 


Ceca  to  Mecca  (From).  From  one 
end  of  the  world  to  the  other  ;  from 
pillar  to  post.  It  is  a  Spanish  phrase 
meaning  to  roam  about  purposelessly. 
Ceca  and  Mecca  are  two  places  visited 
by  Mohammedan  pilgrims.  (Compare  : 
From  Dan  to  Beersheba ;  and  From  Land's 
End  to  John  o'  GroaVs.) 

".'  Let  us  return  home,'  sjvid  Sancho, '  no  longer 
ramble  about  from  Ceca  to  Meccji.' "— Ceruanfes  ; 
Don  Quixote,  I.  iii.  4. 

Ceciria  {St.).  A  Roman  lady  wno 
underwent  martj'rdom  in  the  third  cen- 
tury. She  is  the  patron  saint  of  the 
blind,  being  herself  bliud :  she  is  also 
patroness  of  musicians,  and  "inventor 
of  the  organ." 

"  At  lenKth  divine  Cecilia  came, 
liiveutress  of  the  vocal  frame." 

Dryilen:  Alexander's  Feast. 

According  to  tradition,  an  angel  fell  in 
love  with  her  for  her  musical  skill,  and 
used  nightly  to  visit  her.  Her  husband 
saw  the  heavenly  visitant,  who  gave  to 
both  a  crown  of  martyrdom  which  he 
brought  from  Paradise.  Dr3-den  and 
Pope  have  written  odes  in  her  honour, 
and  both  speak  of  her  charming  an  angel 
by  her  musical  jDOwers  : 
"  HeH^Timotheus)  raised  a  mortal  to  the  skies," 
She  [Cecilia]  brought  an  angel  down." 

Dryden:  Alexander's  Feast. 

Cecil's  Fast.  A  dinner  off  fish. 
W.  CecO.  (Lord  Burleigh)  introduced  a 
BUI  to  enjoin  the  eating  of  fish  on  cer- 
tain days  in  order  to  restore  the  fish 
trade. 

Ced,  Ked,  or  Ceridiren.  The  Arkite 
goddess  or  Ceres  of  the  Britons. 

"  I  was  first  modelled  into  the  form  of  a  pure 
man  in  the  hall  of  Ceridwen,  who  subjected  me  to 
penance."— Tuiiejiira  (.Davies's  Translation: 

Cedar.  Curzon  says  that  Solomon 
cut  down  a  cedar,  and  buried  it  on  the 
spot  where  the  pool  of  Bethes'da  used  to 
stand.  A  few  days  before  the  crucifixion, 
this  cedar  floated  to  the  surface  of  the 
pool,  and  was  employed  as  the  upright 
of  the  Saviour's  cross.  {3Ionastcries  of 
the  Levant.)     (See  Ceoss.) 

Cedilla.  The  mark  (_,)under  a  French 
sibilant  c.  This  marlc  is  the  letter  z,  and 
the  word  is  from  the  Italian  zediglia 
("zeticula,"  a  little  z.  (Greek,  zeta; 
Spanish,  ceda,  with  a  diminutive. ) 

Ceelict  {St.)  or  St.  Calixtus,  whose 
day  is  the  14th  of  October,  the  day  of 
the  Battle  of  Hastings. 

Brown  Willis  tells    us   there  was    a 
tablet  once  in  Battle  parish  church  with 
these  words : 
"  This  place  of  war  is  Battle  called,  because  in 

liattle  here 


Ceintiire 


232 


Cento 


Quite  conquered  and  u'ertlirown  the  English 

nation  were. 
This   slaughter   liappeued   to   them   upon   St. 

Ceelict's  day,"  etc. 

Ceinture  de  la  Reine.  The  octroi 
levied  at  Paris,  which  at  oue  time  was 
the  queen's  pin-money  or  private  purse. 

Celadon.  The  lover  of  Amelia,  a 
"matchless  beauty."  Beiug  overtaken 
by  a  storm,  Amelia  became  alarmed,  but 
Celadon,  folding  her  in  his  arms,  ex- 
claimed, " 'Tis  safety  to  be  near  thee, 
sure,  and  thus  to  clasp  i^erfection."  As 
he  spoke,  a  flash  of  lightning  struck 
Amelia  dead.  {TIiodisoh  :  Tlie  iSeaso)is  ; 
SuniDicr.) 

Celandine,  a  shepherdess  in  love 
with  Marina.  Finding  his  suit  too  easily 
gi'anted,  he  waxed  cold,  and  discarded 
the  "  matchless  beauty."  (  W.  Browne  : 
Britannia^  s  Fastorals  ;  1613.) 

Celestial  City  {The).  Heaven  is  so 
called  by  John  Bunyan  in  his  Fihjrini's 
Froyress, 

Celestial  Empire  (TA^O-  China;  so 
called  because  the  first  emperors  were 
all  celestial  deities. 

Celes'tians.  Followers  of  Celes'tius, 
disciple  of  Pela'gius.  St.  Jerome  calls 
him  "a  blockhead  swollen  with  Scotch 
pottage" — Scotch  being,  in  this  case, 
what  we  now  call  Irish. 

Ce'lia  [^/tearoiVuicss].  Mother  of  Faith, 
Hope,  and  Charity.  She  lived  in  the 
hospice  called  Holiness.  {fSjjoiscr :  Faerie 
Queene,  bk.  i.  10.) 

Celia  or  Ceclia.  A  common  poetical 
name  for  a  lady  or  lady-love.  Thus, 
Swift  had  an  ode  in  which  Strephon 
describes  CseUa's  di-essiug-roora. 

"  Five  hours,  and  who  t-au  do  it  less  in. 
By  haughty  Ca;lia  siieut  in  dressing." 

Celt.  A  piece  of  stone,  ground  arti- 
ficially into  a  wedge-like  shape,  with  a 
cutting  edge.  Used,  before  the  employ- 
ment of  bronze  and  iron,  for  knives, 
hatchets,  and  chisels. 

Celts  {The),  or  The  luUf:.  This  family 
of  nations  includes  the  Irish,  Erse,  Manx, 
Welsh,  Cornish,  and  Low  Bretons.  Ac- 
cording to  historic  fable,  Celtina  was  the 
daughter  of  Britannus.  She  had  a  son  by 
Hercules,  named  Celtus,  the  progenitor 
of  the  Celts. 

Cem'etery  properly  means  a  sleeping- 
place.  The  Jews  used  to  speak  of  death 
as  slcej}.  The  Persians  call  their  ceme- 
teries "The  Cities  of  the  Silent."  The 
Greeks  thought  it  unlucky  to  pronounce 
the  name  of  Death.   (Greek,  koimeterion.) 


Cen'obites  (3  syl.).  Monks.  So 
called  because  they  live  in  common. 
Hermits  and  anchorites  are  not  ceno- 
bites,  as  they  live  alone.  (Greek,  l-o'uiS- 
biotes.) 

Cenoman'ni.  The  inhabitants  of 
Norfolk,  Suffolk,  and  Cambridge,  re- 
ferred to  by  Ctesar  in  his  Comiiteiitarles. 

Cenotaphs.  The  most  noted  in 
ancient  times — 

./5;XEAS  to  DeilihOhus  (yEiieid,  i.  C  ;  v.  .'iOr>;. 
ANDR0.MACHKi4syl.)to  Hector  UEneid,  i.  3  ;  v.  302) 
Argentier  to  Kallaischros  (.Anthologia,  l)k.  iii. 

Aristotle  to  Hernilas  and  Euhulos  (Diogetiei 
Laertiiis). 

The  Athexiass  to  the  poet  Eurii'Ides. 

CAi.LurACiios  to  Sopolis,  son  of  Dioclides  (t';"'- 
(iram  of  CoUimaclios,  T2). 

Catum.us  to  his  brother  (_Epi(jram  of  CatnUus, 
103). 

Dido  to  Sichaeus  (Justin,  xviii.  6'. 

Bupons  and  Aristodrce  to  tlieir  son  Theotinios. 

Germain  he  Biue  to  nerve,  the  Breton,  in  1511'. 

OXESTOS  to  TiMiOcles  tAiithiiliir/ia,  Hi.  p.  3()6). 

The  Romans  to  Drusus  in  Genuany,  and  to  Alex- 
ander Ke\erus,  the  euip.,  in  (ia.ul  (Suetonius: 
Life  of  VldiiiUits ;  and  the  Antholoiim). 

STATirs  to  his  father  (The  Sylvce  of  Statius,  v. 

—  Eliicediuin,  :ii. 

TiMARES  to  his  son  TeleutagSras. 

Xexocrates  to  Lysidices(/l)it/io?yfl'ui). 
".■  A  cenotaph  (Greek,  ksvo';  Ta(/)o;,  an  empty 

tomb)  is  a  monument  or  tablet  to  the  memory  of 

a  person.whose  liody  is  luiried  elsewhere.  A  mau- 

s. ileum  is  an  imposing  monument  enshrining  the 

dead  body  itself. 

Censsrius  et  Sapiens.  Cato  Major 
was  so  called,     (b.c.  231-149.) 

Cent  Nouvelles  Nouvelles.  French 
imitations  of  Graiiuc'ci,  Malesjn'ni,  and 
Campeg'gi,  Italian  tale -writers  of  the 
seventeenth  century. 

Cen'taur  (2  syl.).  A  huntsman.  The 
ThessaUau  centam's  were  half-horses, 
half- men.  They  were  invited  to  a  mar- 
riage feast,  and,  being  intoxicated,  be- 
haved with  great  rudeness  to  tlie  women. 
The  Lap'ithie  took  the  women's  part, 
fell  on  the  centaurs,  and  drove  them  out 
of  the  country. 

"Feasts  that  Thessalian  cenlaurs  never  knew." 
Tlioinson :  Autumn. 

Cent-cyne.  Oue  of  the  tipper  ten ; 
a  person  of  high  birth,  a  descendant  of 
the  race  of  kings.  (Anglo-Saxon  ci/i/e, 
royal ;  ci/iie-doiii,  a  kingdom  ;  also  noble, 
renowned,  chief.) 

"  His  wife,  by  birth  a  Cent-cyne,  went  out  as  a 
day-servant."  —  Galoriaii:  I'roinise  of  Marriage, 
chap.  V. 

Cento.  Poetry  made  up  of  lines  bor- 
rowed from  established  authors.  Auso'- 
nius  has  a  nuptial  idyll  composed  from 
verses  selected  from  Virgil.  (Lsitm,  ce?ito, 
patchwork.) 

*,*  The  best  known  are  the  Homero- 
ccntones  (3  syl.),  the  Cento  Virf/ilidiiiffihy 
Proba  Falconia  (4th  century),  aud  the 
C'e7ito  Nuptidlis  of  Ausonius.    Metellus 


Central  Sun 


233 


Cereraony 


made  hymns  out  of  the  Odes  of  Horace 
by  this  sort  of  patchwork.  Of  modern 
centos,  tlie  CouiSdie  dcs  Comedies,  made 
up  of  extracts  from  Balzac,  is  pretty  well 
known. 

Central  Sun.  That  body  or  point 
about  which  our  whole  system  revoh'es. 
Miidler  believed  that  point  to  be  eta  in 
Taurus. 

Centre.  In  the  Legislative  Assem- 
bly The  Cod  re  were  the  friends  of  order. 
In  the  Fenian  rebellion,  1866,  the  chief 
movers  were  called  Head  Centres,  and 
their  subordinates  Centi'es. 

Centre  of  Gravity.  That  point  on 
which  a  body  acted  on  by  gravity  is 
balanced  in  all  positions. 

Centum'viri.  A  court  under  whose 
j  urisdiction  the  Romans  placed  all  mat- 
ters pertaining  to  testaments  and  in- 
lieritauces. 

Centu'rion.  A  Roman  officer  who 
had  the  command  of  100  men.  His 
badge  was  a  vine-rod.  (Latin,  eentum, 
a  hundred.) 

Century  White.  John  White,  the 
Nonconformist  lawyer.  So  called  from 
liis  chief  publication.  The  First  Centuri/ 
of  Sca»dalo/(s,  Malignant  Priests,  made 
and  admitted  into  Benefices  by  the  Fre- 
lutes,  etc.  (1590-1645). 

Ceph'alus  and  Procris.  Made 
familiar  to  us  by  an  allusion  to  them 
in  the  play  of  Fi/rai)uis  and  Thishe, 
where  they  are  miscalled  Shafalus  and 
Procrus.  Cephalus  was  the  husband  of 
Procris,  who,  out  of  jealousy,  deserted 
him.  Cephalus  went  in  search  of  her, 
and  rested  awhile  under  a  tree.  Procris, 
knowing  of  his  whereabouts,  crept 
through  some  bushes  to  ascertain  if  a 
lival  was  with  him.  Cephalus  heard  the 
noise,  and  thinking  it  to  be  made  by  some 
wild  beast,  hurled  his  javelin  into  the 
bushes  and  slew  Procris.  Wlien  the  un- 
happy man  discovered  what  he  had  done, 
he  slew  himself  in  anguish  of  spirit  with 
the  same  javelin. 

"  Pyramus :    Not  Sbafalus  to  Procrus  was  so  true. 
Tliisbe:    As  Shafalus  to  Procrus,  I  to  you." 
Shakespeare :  ilidaunimer  Night's  Dream,  v.  1. 

Ce'pheus  (2  syl.).  One  of  the  north- 
ern constellations,  which  takes  its  name 
from  Copheus,  King  of  Ethiojiia,  hus- 
band of  Cassiope'ia  and  father  of  An- 
drom'eda. 

Ce'pola.  Bei'ices  of  Cepola.  Quips 
of  law  are  so  called  from  Bartholomew 
Cepola  whose  law-quirks  for  prolonging 
lawsuits  have  been  frequently  reprinted. 


Ce'quiel  (3  syl.) .  A  spirit  who  trans- 
ported Torral'ba  from  Valladolid'  to 
Rome  and  back  again  in  an  hour  and  a 
half.     {Fclliccr.) 

Cerau'nium.  The  opal.  So  called 
by  the  ancients  from  a  notion  that  it  was 
a  thunder -stone.  (Latin,  ceraanium  ; 
Greek,  kcran'nios.) 

Cer'berus.  A  grim,  watchfid  keeper, 
house-jjorter,  guardian,  etc.  Cerberus, 
according  to  Roman  mytholog}%  is  the 
three-headed  dog  that  keeps  the  en- 
trance of  the  infernal  regions.  Hercules 
dragged  the  monster  to  earth,  and  then 
let  him  go  again.     {See  Sop.  ) 

*»  Orpheus  (2  syl.)  lulled  Cerberus  to 
sleep  with  liis  lyre  ;  and  the  Sibyl  who 
conducted  53neas  through  the  Inferno, 
also  threw  the  dog  into  a  profound  sleep 
with  a  cake  seasoned  with  poppies  and 
honey. 

The  origin  of  the  fable  of  Cerberus  is 
from  the  custom  of  the  ancient  Egj'jjtians 
of  guarding  graves  ^vith  dogs. 

V  The  exquisite  cameo  by  Dioscorides, 
in  tlie  possession  of  the  King  of  Prussia, 
and  the  painting  of  Hercules  and  Cer- 
beru?,  in  the  Famese  Gallery  of  Rome, 
are  of  world-wide  renown. 

Cerdo'nians.  A  sect  of  herelics, 
established  by  Cerdon  of  Sj'ria,  who  lived 
in  the  time  of  Pope  Hygi'nus,  and  main- 
tained most  of  the  eiTors  of  the  Mani- 
chees. 

Ceremonious  (The).  Peter  IV.  of 
Ai-agon.     (1319,  1336-1387.) 

Ceremony.  When  the  Romans  fled 
before  Brennus,  one  Albi'nus,  who  was 
canying  his  wife  and  children  in  a  cart 
to  a  place  of  safety,  overtook  at  Janic'u- 
lum  the  Vestal  virgins  bending  under 
their  load,  took  them  up  and  conveyed 
them  to  Coere,  in  Etrn'ria.  Here  they 
remained,  and  continued  to  perform  their 
sacred  rite.s,  which  were  consequently 
called  "  Ca?re-monia."     {Lirtj,  v.) 

V  Scaliger  says  the  word  comes  from 
ceriis  =  sanctas.  Cerus  via}Ufs=Cveatov; 
and  Cereo  (according  to  Varro)  is  by 
metathesis  for  creo.  Ceres,  according  to 
Scaliger,  is  also  from  creo.  By  this  ety- 
mology, "  Ceremony "  means  sacred 
rites,  or  solemn  acts  in  honour  of  the 
Creator.  The  great  objection  to  this 
etymology  is  that  Cicero,  Tacitus,  and 
other  classic  authors  Sf)ell  the  word 
Ceere-monia  and  not  Cere-monia. 

blaster  of  the  Ceremonies.  An  officer, 
first  appointed  by  James  I.,  to  superin- 
tend the  rece^jtiou  of  ambassadors  and 


Ceres 


234 


Chair 


strangers  of  rank,  and  to  prescribe  the 
formalities  to  be  observed  in  levees  and 
other  grand  public  functions. 

Ce'res  (2  syl.).  Com.  Ceres  was 
the  Eoman  name  of  Mother -Earth,  the 
protectress  of  agriculture  and  of  all  the 
fruits  of  the  earth. 

"  Dark  frowning  heaths  grow  bright  with  Ceres' 
store."     Thomson :  Castle  of  Indolence,  ii.  27. 

Cerin'thians.      Disciples  of   Cerin'- 

thus,  a  horosiarch  of  tlie  first  century. 
They  denied  the  divinity  of  Christ,  but 
held  that  a  certain  virtue  descended  into 
Him  at  baptism,  which  filled  Him  with 
the  Holj'  Ghost. 

Cerulean  Brother  of  Jove  {TIw). 
Neptune.     Here  cerulean  means  green. 

Cess.  Measure,  as  ex-cess,  excess-ive. 
Out  of  all  cess  means  excessively,  i.e.  ex 
(out  of  all)  cess. 

"Poor  jaile,  is  wrung  in  the  withers  out  of 
all  ces=."—Sluikci'peare  :  1  Ilennj  IV.,  li.  1. 

Cess.     A  tax,  contracted  from'  assess- 
ment ("sess");    as  a  "church-cess." 
In  Ireland  the  word  is  used  sometimes 
as  a  contraction  of  success,  meaning  luck, 
as  ' '  bad  cess  to  you  I  ' ' 

Cestui  que  Vie  is  the  person  for 
whose  life  any  lands  or  hereditaments 
may  be  held. 

Vcstai  que  use,  the  person  entitled  to  a 
use.  Crstiil  que  trust,  tlie  person  for 
whose  benefit  a  trust  may  be  created. 

Ces'tus,  in  Homer,  is  the  girdle  of 
Venus,  of  magical  power  to  mo%'e  to 
ardent  love.  In  Jerusalem  Delivered, 
Ar'mida  wore  a  similar  cestus. 

Cf.     Latin,  confer  =  compare. 

Chabouk.     {See  CHiBOTJaTTE,  p.  245.) 

Chabouk  or  CJiahuk.  A  long  whip, 
or  the  a])ijlication  of  wliips  and  rods  ;  a 
Persian  and  Chinese  punishment.  {Du- 
bois.) 

'•  Drag  torward  that  f:il<ir,  and  cut  his  robe  into 
tatters  on  his  liack  with  your  chabouks."— A'eoft  ; 
The  Sure/eon's  IJaugliter,  c.  xiv. 

T/ie  criticism  of  the  chabuJc.  The 
application  of  whips  or  rods  (Persian). 
{Dubois.) 

"  If  that  monarch  dirt  not  give  the  chabuk  to 
Peramorz,  there  would  1)0  an  end  to  all  legitimate 
government  in  Bucharia."  —  T.  Moore:  Lalla 
Uookh. 

Chacun  a  son  Gout.  "Everyone 
has  («)  his  taste  "  ;  or,  "Everyone  to  {(i) 
his  taste."  The  former  is  French,  the 
latter  is  English-French.  The  phrase 
is  much  more  common  with  us  than  it  is  in 
France,  where  we  meet  with  the  phrases 
— Cliacun  a  sa  chacuneric  (everyone  has 


his  idiosj'ncrasj') ,  and  chacun  a  sa  marotte 
(everyone  has  his  hobby).  In  Latin 
sua  cuique  roluptas,  "as  the  good-man 
said  when  he  kissed  his  cow." 

Chad-pennies.  "Whitsuntide  offer- 
ings at  St.  Chad's  cathedral,  Lichfield, 
for  keeping  it  in  repair. 

Chaff.  An  old  bird  is  not  to  be  caught 
iriih  chaff.  An  experienced  man,  or  one 
with  his  wits  about  him,  is  not  to  be 
deluded  by  humbug.  The  reference  is 
to  throwing  chaff  instead  of  bird-seed 
to  alhu'e  birds.     Hence— 

You  are  chaffinr/  me.  Making  fun  of 
me.  A  singular  custom  used  to  exist 
in  Notts  and  Leicestershire  some  half  a 
century  ago.  When  a  husband  ill-treated 
his  wife,  the  villagers  emptied  a  sack  of 
chaff  at  his  door,  to  intimate  that 
"  thrasliing  was  done  within,"  which 
some  think  to  be  the  origin  of  the  word. 

V  "Jo  chaff,''''  meaniug  to  banter,  is  a 
variant  of  chafe,  to  iiTitate. 

Chair  {Th().  The  oifice  of  chief 
magistrate  in  a  corporate  town. 

Below  the  chair.  An  alderman  who 
has  not  yet  served  the  mayoralty. 

Passed  the  chair.  One  who  has  served 
the  chief  office  of  the  corporation. 

V  The  word  is  also  applied  to  the 
office  of  a  jjrofessor,  etc.,  as  "The  chair 
of  poetry,  in  Oxford,  is  now  vacant." 
The  word  is  furthermore  applied  to  the 
president  of  a  committee  or  public 
meeting.     Hence — 

To  take  the  cha'ir.  To  become  the 
chairman  or  president  of  a  public  meet- 
ing. The  chaimian  is  placed  in  a  chair 
at  the  head  of  the  table,  or  in  some  con- 
spicuous place  like  the  Speaker  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  and  his  decision  is 
absolutely  final  in  all  fioints  of  doubt. 
Usually  the  persons  present  nominate 
and  elect  their  own  chairman  ;  but  in 
some  cases  there  is  an  ex  officio  chairman. 

Chair.  When  members  of  the  House 
of  Commons  and  other  debaters  call  out 
"Chair,"  they  mean  that  the  chairman 
is  not  properly  sujaported,  and  his  words 
not  obej-ed  as  they  ought  to  be.  Another 
form  of  the  same  exjiression  is,  "  Pray 
support  the  chair." 

Groaning  chair.  The  chair  in  which 
a  woman  is  confined  or  sits  afterwards 
to  receive  congratulations.  Similarly 
" groaning  cake "  and  "groaning  cheese" 
are  the  cake  and  cheese  which  used  to 
be  provided  in  "  Goose  month." 

"  For  a  nurse,  the  child  to  dandle, 
Sugar,  soap,  spiced  pots,  and  candle, 
A  groaning  chair,  and  eke  a  cradle." 

Poor  Robin's  Almanack,  1676. 


Chair-days 


235 


Cham. 


Chair-days.     Old  age. 

"  I  bad  loiii,'  siivimsud  that  cliair-days, tbe beau- 
tiful name  for  llinsf  ilays  of  old  age  .  .  .  was  of 
.Sliakespt'are's  "Wii  inveution  .  .  .  but  this  is  a 
mistake  .  .  .  the  word  is  current  iu  Lancashire 
still."— Teenc/i :  English  Past  and  Present,  v. 
"  In  tiiy  reverence  and  thy  chair-days,  thus 
To  dif  in  ruftian  liattle." 

Slial.-t'siH'iirr :  -2  Henry  l'/.,act  v.  2. 

Chair  of  St.  Peter  {The).  The  office 
of  the  Pope  of  Rome,  said  to  be  founded 
by  St.  Peter,  the  apostle ;  but  St. 
Feter's  C'ltair  meaus  the  Catholic  festival 
held  iu  commemoration  of  the  two  epis- 
copates founded  by  the  apostle,  one  at 
Rome,  and  tlie  other  at  Antioch  (January 
18th  and  February  'i-iud). 

Chalcedony  [kalccd'uui/'].  A  precious 
stone,  consisting  of  half  -  transparent 
quartz :  so  called  from  Chalce'don,  in 
Asia  Minor,  where  it  was  first  found. 
Its  chief  varieties  are  agate,  caruelian, 
cat's-eye,  chrysoprase,  llint,  hornstone, 
onyx,  plasma,  and  sard. 

'.*  Albertus  Magnus  (book  i.  chap.  2) 
says:  "  It  dispels  illusions  and  all  vain 
imaginations.  If  hung  about  the  neck 
as  a  charm,  it  is  a  defence  against 
enemies,  and  keeps  the  body  healthful 
and  vigorous. 

Chaldee's  {Kal-deen).  The  Land  of 
the  Chaldees.     Babylo'nia. 

Chalk. 

17/  cltallc  out  your  path  for  yon — i.e. 
lay  it  down  or  plan  it  out  as  a  carpenter 
or  ship -builder  plans  out  his  work  with 
a  piece  of  chalk. 

I  caji  ira/k  a  chalk  as  irell  as  you.  I 
am  no  more  drunk  than  you  are.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  ordeal  on  board  ship  of 
trying  men  suspected  of  drunkenness. 
They  were  required  to  walk  along  a  line 
chalked  on  the  deck,  without  deviating 
to  the  right  or  left. 

The  tapster  is  nndouc  hy  chalk,  i.e. 
credit.  The  allusion  is  to  scoring  up 
credit  on  a  tally  with  chalk.  This  was 
common  enough  early  in  the  uuieteenth 
century,  when  milk  scores,  bread  scores, 
as  well  as  beer  scores  were  general. 

Chalk  it  up.     Put  it  to  his  credit. 

■,■  As  good-huninured  sarcasm,  Chalk  it  up .'  is 
tantamount  to  saying, "  What  you  have  done  so 
astonishes  me  that  I  niiisr  make  some  more  or 
less  permanent  record  of  it.'' 

Chalk  and  Cheese.  I  know  the 
difference  hcticecn  chalk  a)id  cheese.  Be- 
tween what  is  worthless  and  what  is 
valuable,  between  a  counterfeit  and  a 
real  article.  Of  course,  the  resemblance 
of  chalk  to  cheese  has  something  to  do 
with  the  saying,  and  the  alliteration 
helps  to  popularise  it. 

"This  Scotch  scarecrow  was  no  more  to  be  com- 
pared to  him  than  chalk  was  to  cheese  "Sir  TV. 
Scott :  Woodstock,  xxiv. 


I  cannot  make  chalk  of  one  and  cheese 
of  the  other.  I  must  treat  both  alike  ;  I 
must  show  no  favouritism. 

They  are  no  more  like  titan  chalk  is  like 
cheese.  There  may  be  a  slight  apparent 
resemblance,  but  there  is  no  real  likeness. 

Chalks. 

/  beat  him  by  lony  chalks.  Tlioi'oughly. 
In  allusion  to  the  ancient  custom  of 
making  merit  marks  with  chalk,  before 
lead  pencils  were  so  common. 

Walk  your  chalks.  Get  you  gone. 
Lodgings  wanted  for  the  royal  retinue 
used  to  be  taken  arbitrarily  by  the 
marshal  and  sergeant-chamberlain,  the 
inhabitants  were  sent  to  the  right  about, 
and  the  houses  selected  were  notified  by 
a  chalk  mark.  When  Mary  de  Medicis, 
in  1638,  came  to  England,  Sieur  de  Labat 
was  employed  to  mark  ' '  all  sorts  of 
houses  commodious  for  her  retinue  iu 
Colchester."  The  same  custom  is  re- 
ferred to  iu  the  Life  and  Acts  of  Sir 
Ifllliani  Wallace,  iu  Edinburgh.  The 
phrase  is  ''  Walk,  you're  chalked,"  cor- 
rupted into  Walk  your  chalks. 

"  In  Scotland,  at  one  time,  the  land- 
lord gave  the  tenant  notice  to  quit  by 
chalking  the  door. 

"  The  prisoner  has  cut  his  stick,  and  walked  his 
chalk,  and  is  oft  to  London."— C  Kingslcy. 

Challenge  to  the  Array  {A).  An 
objection  to  the  whole  panel  or  body  of 
jurymen,  based  on  some  default  of  the 
sheriff,  or  his  officer  who  arrayed  the 
panel. 

Challenge  to  the  Polls  {A).  An 
objection  or  protest  to  certain  persons 
selected  for  a  jury.  If  a  man  is  not 
qualified  to  serve,  or  if  he  is  sujjposed 
to  be  biassed,  he  may  be  challenged.  In 
capital  cases  a  prisoner  may  challenge 
persons  without  assigning  any  reason, 
and  in  cases  of  treason  as  many  as 
thu-ty-five.  (22  Henry  FLU. ,  c.14 ;  7,  8 
Georye  TV.,  c.  28,  s.  3.) 

Challenging  a  Jury.  This  may  be 
to  object  to  all  the  jurors  from  some 
informality  in  tlie  way  they  have  beeu 
"  arrayed"  or  empanelled,  or  to  one  or 
more  of  the  jurors,  from  some  real  or 
supiDosed  disqualification  or  bias  of  j  udg- 
ment.  The  word  "challenge"  is  Nor- 
man, and  is  exactly  equivalent  to  "call 
out ;  "  hence  we  say  Captain  A  chal- 
lenged or  called  out  Captain  B. 

Cham  {kain).  The  sovereign  prince 
of  Tartary,  now  written  "khan." 

"  Fetch  you  a  hair  ofli  the  great  Cham's  be.ai"d." 
—Shakespeare :  Much  Ado  About  Nothing,  ii.  1. 

The  great  Cham  of  Literature.  Dr. 
Samuel  Johnsou  (170y-1784). 


Chambre  Ardente 


236 


Chancellor 


Chambre  Ardente  (French),  "A 
lighted  chamber"  (A  darkened  court). 
Before  the  Ilevolutiou,  certain  offences 
in  Fi-auce  were  tried  in  a  court  from 
which  daylight  was  excluded,  and  the 
only  light  admitted  was  by  torches. 
Tliese  inquisitorial  courts  were  devised 
by  Cardinal  Lorraine.  The  first  was  held 
in  the  reign  of  Franc^ois  I.,  for  trying 
heretics.  Brinvilliers  and  his  associates 
were  tried  in  a  darkened  court  in  1680. 
Another  was  held  in  1716,  dm-iug  the 
regency.  When  judges  were  ashamed 
to  be  seen,  prisoners  could  not  expect 
much  leniency. 

Chameleon.  Ton  are  a  cltaineleon, 
i.e.  very  changeable — shifting  according 
to  the  opinions  of  others,  as  the  chame- 
leon changes  its  hue  to  that  of  contiguous 
objects. 

"  As  tlie  cbaiueloon,  wlm  is  kuowu 
To  Ijivve  no  colours  of  its  owu, 
But  borrows  from  bis  neigUbour's  hue, 
llis  white  or  black,  his  green  or  Ijlue." 

I'rior. 

V  Pliny  tells  us  that  Democrltus  wrote 
a  book  on  suiDerstitions  connected  with 
the  chameleon. 

Cost  nn  camvJeon.  One  who  shifts 
his  opinions  according  to  circumstances ; 
a  vicar  of  Bray. 

Tu  chameleunlfie  is  to  change  one's 
opinions  as  a  chameleon  changes  its 
colour. 

Champ  de  Manoeuvre  (Zr).  The 
soldiers'  exercise  ground. 

Champs  de  Mai.  The  same  as  the 
ChaiiqjH  de  Mars  (y.r.),  transferred  after 
T'J.J  to  the  mouth  of  May.  Napoleon  I. 
revived  these  meetings  during  the 
" HmidredDaj^s "  (June  1st,  1815). 

Champs  de  Mars.  The  Mardi 
meetings  held  by  Clovis  and  his  imme- 
diate followers,  sometimes  as  mere 
pageants  for  the  amusement  of  the 
freedmen  who  came  to  offer  homage  to 
their  lord,  and  pay  their  annual  gifts  ; 
sometimes  for  business  purposes,  espe- 
cially when  the  king  wished  to  consult 
his  warriors  about  some  exjDedition. 

Champak'.  An  Indian  tree  [Mk-hdla 
Chaiiiptica).  The  wood  is  sacred  to 
Buddha,  and  the  strongly-scented  golden 
flowers  are  worn  in  the  black  hair  of 
Indian  women. 

"The  Cbainpak  odours  fail." 

Shelley :  Mnes  to  Indian  Air. 

Cham'perty  (Latin,  campi  partitio, 
division  of  the  land)  is  a  bargain  with 
some  iDersou  who  imdertakes  at  his  own 


cost  to  recover  property  on  condition  of 
receiving  a  share  thereof  if  he  succeeds. 

"Cbaniperty  is  treated  as  a  worse  offence  ;  for 
by  this  a  stranger  Bui)plie8  money  to  carry  on  a 
suit,  on  condition  of  sharing  in  the  land  or  oilier 
property."— f arsons:  Contracts  (vol.  ii.  part  ii. 
chap.  3,  page  264.) 

Champion  and  Severall.  A  "cham- 
pion "  is  a  common,  or  land  in  allotments 
without  enclosures.  A  "severall"  is  a 
private  farm,  or  land  enclosed  for  indi- 
vidual use.  A  champion  also  means  one 
who  holds  a  champion. 

"  The  iliiniipinn  differs  from  severall  much 
For  want  of  p.irtitinn,  closier,  and  such." 
r««rr;  F,rc  IJiiiidnd  I'uiiits,  etc.  (Intro.l. 

Champion  of  England.    A  person 
whose  office  it  is  to  ride  up  Westminster 
Hall  on  a  Coronation  Day,  and  challenge 
any  one  who  disputes  the  liglit  of  succes- 
sion.     The    office    was    established    by 
William  the  Conqueror,  and  was  given 
to  Marmiou  and  his  male  descendants, 
with  the  manor  of  '•  broad  Scrivelsby." 
De  Ludlow  received  the  office  and  manor 
through   the   female   line  ;    and   in   the 
reign  of  Richard  II.  .Sir  John  Dymoke 
succeeded  through  the  female  line  also. 
Since  then  the  office  has  continued  in 
the  Dymoke  family. 
"  These  1, inn. In  lands  the  Comiueror  gave. 
That  Kn'-'lands  ltIonc  ihey  might  convey 
To  knigiit  rcTKiwiii-d  amongst  the  brave— 
The  baron  bohl  of  Fouteney." 

An  Anfilv-Xuiniiin  IhiUud  modernised. 

Chance.     {See  Main  Chaxce.) 

Chan'cel  means  a  lattice-screen.  In 
the  Komau  law  courts  the  lawj'crs  were 
cut  off"  from  the  public  by  such  a  screen. 
(Latin,  caueeUiis.) 

Clianeel  of  a  chureh.  That  part  of  a 
church  which  contains  the  altar,  and  the 
seats  set  apart  for  the  choir.  It  is  gene- 
rally raised  a  stejj  or  more  above  the  floor 
of  the  nave. 

Chancellor.  A  petty  officer  in  the 
Roman  law  courts  stationed  at  the  chan- 
cel ('/.''.)  as  usher  of  the  court.  In  the 
Eastern  Empire  lie  was  a  secretary  or 
notary,  subsequently  invested  with  judi- 
cial functions.  The  office  was  introduced 
into  England  by  Edward  the  Confessor, 
and  under  the  Norman  kings  the  chan- 
cellor was  made  official  secretary  of  all 
important  legal  documents.  In  France, 
tlie  chancellor  was  the  royal  notary,  pre- 
sident of  the  councils,  and  keeper  of  the 
Great  Seal, 

Chancellor  of  England  (The).  The 
Lord  Chancellor,  or  the  Lord  High 
(JhanceUor.  The  highest  judicial  func- 
tionary of  the  nation,  who  ranks  above 
all  peers,  except  princes  of  the  blood 


Chancellor , 


237 


Cliaos 


and  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  He 
is  *'  Keejier  of  the  Great  Seal,"  is  called 
"  Keeper  of  His  (or  Her)  Majesty's  Cor- 
scicuce,"  and  presides  on  the  Woolsack 
in  the  House  of  Lords. 

Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  (7Vi<'). 
The  minister  of  finance  in  the  Privy 
Coimcil. 

Chan'cery.  The  part  of  the  Court 
occupied  by  tlic  lawyers. 

To  get  a  mail's  head  into  chancerij  is 
to  get  it  under  your  arm,  where  you  cau 
pummel  it  as  long  as  you  like,  and  he 
cannot  get  it  free  without  gi'cat  difficulty. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  long  and  exhausting 
nature  of  a  Chancery  suit.  If  a  man 
once  gets  his  head  there,  the  lawyers 
punish  him  to  their  heart's  content. 

'•  Wlieu  1  can  iierfiinn  my  iiiilp  ill  oiKlit  minutes 
ova  litth"  less,  I  feel  as  if  1  liad  old  Time's  bead 
in  cliancei-y."— 7/u/jHfs  ;  .4«(«c)'«f,cljaii.  vii.  p.  lul. 

Chaneph.  The  island  of  religious 
hypocrites,  inhabited  by  sham  saints, 
tellers  of  beads,  mumblers  of  are  marins, 
and  friars  who  lived  by  begging.  (The 
word  meant  hypocrite  in  Hebrew.)  {iSee 
liabeJais  :  Fantaf/rnel,  iv.  63,  64.) 

Change.  Binfilng  the  changes.  Ee- 
peatiug  the  same  thing  in  different  ways. 
The  allusion  is  to  bell-ringing. 

V  To  know  how  many  changes  can  be 
rung  on  a  peal  of  bells,  multiply  the 
known  preceding  number  by  the  next 
subsequent  one,  thus  :  1  bell  no  change  ; 
•2.  bells,  1X2  =  2  changes ;  3  bells,  2 
X  3  =  6  changes  ;  4  beils,  6  X  4  =  24 
changes  ;  o  bells,  24  X  5  =^  120  changes  ; 
6  bells,  720  changes,  etc. 

Talce  gour  ehnitgc  out  of  that.  Said  to 
a  person  who  insults  you  when  you  give 
him  a  quid  pro  quo,  and  tell  him  to  take 
out  the  change.  It  is  an  allusion  to 
shopping  transactions,  where  you  settle 
the  price  of  the  article,  and  put  the  sur- 
l^lus  or  change  in  your  pocket. 

Changeling  (2  syl.).  A  peevish, 
sicklj-  child.  The  notion  used  to  be  that 
the  fairies  took  a  healthy  child,  and  left 
in  its  place  one  of  their  starveling  elves 
which  never  did  kindly. 

"  Oil,  that  it  could  be  proved 
That  simie  nigbt-triiiping  fairy  had  exchanged 
]n  cradle-clothes  our  children  as  they  lay, 
.And  called  mine  Percy,  his  Plantageuet  I 
Then  would  1  have  his  Harry,  and  be  mine. " 
Sliakespeare :  1  Hinry  IV.,  i.  1. 

Chant  du  Depart.  After  the  JLar- 
seillmsc,  the  most  celebrated  song  of 
the  first  French  Revolution.  It  was 
written  by  M.  J.  Chcuier  for  a  public 
festival,  held  June  11th,  1794,  to  com- 
memorate the  taking  of  the  Bastille. 
The  music  is  by  Mehul.     A  mother,  an 


old  man,  a  child,  a  wife,  a  girl,  and  three 
warriors  sing  a  verse  in  tuni,  and  the 
sentiment  of  each  is,  "We  give  \\\i  our 
claims  on  the  men  of  France  for  the 
good  of  the  Republic."  (JSee  page  217, 
col.  1,  Carmagnole.) 

"  La  republj.iue  nous  appelle, 

Sachous  vaincre  ou  sjichons  perir  ; 
I'll  Fran'.ais  doit  vivre  pour  elle, 
I'our  elle  un  Franeais  doit  niourir." 

M.  J.  Vhciiier. 
The  Republic  invites. 

Let  us  comiuer  or  fall  ; 
For  her  Frenchmen  \{\ 


And  die  at  her  call. 


E.  C.  n. 


Chantage.  A  subsidy  paid  to  a 
journal.  Certain  journals  will  pro- 
nounce a  company  to  be  a  "bubble 
one"  unless  the  company  advertises  in 
its  columns  ;  and  at  gaming  resorts  will 
publish  all  the  scandals  and  mischances 
connected  with  the  place  unless  the  pro- 
jirietors  subsidise  them,  or  throw  a  sop 
to  Cerberus.  This  sub.sidy  is  technically 
known  as  Chantage  in  France  and  Italy. 

Chan'ticleer.  The  cock,  in  the  tale 
of  Jicgnard  the  Fox,  and  in  Chaucer's 
Xoniie  Prestes  Tale.  The  word  means 
"shrill-singer."  (French  chanter-dair, 
to  sing  clairment,  i.e.  distinctly.) 

"  ily  lungs  began  to  crow  like  chanticleer." 
Shakespeare :  As  i'oii  Like  It,  ii.  7. 

Chaonian  Bird  (The).     The  dove. 

So  called  because  it  delivered  the  oracles 

of  Chaonia  {Dodoiia). 
"  But  the  mild  swallow  none  with  toils  infest, 
And  none  the  soft  Chaonian  bird  molest." 

Ovifl :  Art  of  Love,  ii. 

Chaonian  Food.  Acorns.  So  called 
from  the  oak  trees  of  Chaonia  or  Do- 
dona.  Some  think  beech -luast  is  m.eA.Tit, 
and  tell  us  that  the  bells  of  the  oracle 
were  hung  on  beech-trees,  not  on  oaks. 

*,*  The  Greek  word  is  ifirivo?;  Latin, 
fagas.      Hence  Strabo,  AwSwi-rji',  4>r\y6v  re 

ll€Ka<TyuJi>  iSpavov  fjKev.        (He    to    Doclona 

came,  and  the  hallowed  oak  or  beech 
[fagas'],  the  seat  of  the  Pelasgi.)  Now, 
"  fagus  "  means  the  food- tree,  and  both 
acorns  and  mast  are  food,  so  nothing 
determinate  can  be  derived  from  going 
to  the  root  of  the  word,  and,  as  it  is 
extremely  doubtful  where  Dodona  was, 
we  get  no  light  by  referring  to  the 
locality.  Our  text  says  Chaonia  (in 
Epirus) ,  others  place  it  in  Thessaly. 

Cha'os     (/ca'os).       Confusion  ;    that 
confused  mass  of  elemental  substances 
supposed  to  have   existed    before   God 
reduced  creation  uito  order.     The  poet 
Hesiod  is  the  first   extant  writer  that 
speaks  of  it. 
"  Light,  uncollected,  through  the  chaos  urged 
Us  infant  way  ;  nor  order  yet  had  drawn 
His  lovely  train  from  out  the  dubious  gloom." 
Thomson:  Autumn,  73i'-l. 


Chap 


238 


Charge 


Chap.  A  man,  properly  a  merchant. 
A  chap-man  is  a  merchantman  or 
tradesman.  ''  If  you  want  to  buy,  I'm 
your  chap."  A  good  chap-man  or  chap 
became  in  time  a  good  fellow.  Hence, 
A  (jood  sort  of  chap,  A  clever  chop,  etc. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  ceap-mmui.) 

"  An  awkward  customer  is  an  analo- 
gous phrase. 

Chap-book  (.1).  A  cheap  little  book 
coutaiuiug  tales,  ballads,  lives,  etc. ,  sold 
by  chajiraeu. 

Chapeau    or    Chapel    de    Roses. 

Cost  uu  i^etit  mariage,  car  quand  on 
demaude  ce  qu'un  jj^re  donne  a  une 
fille,  et  qu'on  veut  rt'iDondre  qu'il  donne 
peu,  on  dit  qu'il  lui  donne  un  chajieau 
de  roses.  Les  roses  sont  consacrcs  a 
Venus,  aux  Graces,  et  a  I'Amour.  {Les 
Origines  de  qttelqties  Coutumes  Aiicieinies, 
1672.) 
N.  B .—"  Chapel "  we  now  call  a  chaplet. 

Chapeau-bras.  A  soft  hat  which 
can  be  folded  and  carried  under  the  arm 
(bras,  French  for  arm).  Strictly  speak- 
ing, it  should  be  a  three-cornered  hat. 

Chapel  is  the  chest  containing  relics, 
or  the  shrine  thereof  (Latin,  capella  : 
French,  chape,  a  cope).  The  kings  of 
France  in  war  carried  St.  Martin's  cope 
into  the  field,  and  kept  it  in  a  tent  as  a 
talisman.  The  place  ui  which  the  cope 
was  kept  was  called  the  chapcUe,  and  the 
keeper  thereof  the  chapelain. 

Ch apel  (A).  Either  a  place  subsidiary 
to  the  parish  church,  or  a  place  of  wor- 
ship not  connected  with  the  State,  as  a 
Methodist  Chapel,  a  Baptist  Chapel,  etc. 

Chapel,  ia  jirinters'  parlance,  meant 
his  workshop.  In  the  early  days  of 
printing,  presses  were  set  up  in  the 
chaf)els  attached  to  abbeys,  as  those  of 
Caxton  in  Westminster  Abbey.  {See 
Monk,  Feiae,  etc.) 

Chapel.  The  "caucus"  of  journey- 
men printers  assembled  to  decide  any 
point  of  common  interest.  The  chairman 
is  called  the  "  father  of  the  chapel." 

To  hold  a  chapel.  To  hold  a  printers' 
caucus. 

Chapel-of-Ease.  A  jAace  of  worship 
for  the  use  of  jmrishioners  residing  at  a 
distance  from  the  jiarish  church. 

Chap'eron.  A  lady's  attendant  and 
protector  in  public.  So  called  from  the 
Spanish  hood  worn  by  duennas.  (English- 
French.)    {See  Tapisseeie.) 

To  chaperone.  To  accompany  a  young 
unmarried  lady  in  loco  parentis,  when 
she  appears  in  public  or  in  society. 


Chapter.  To  the  end  of  the  chapter. 
From  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  a  pro- 
ceeding. The  allusion  is  to  the  custom 
of  reading  an  entire  chapter  in  the  first 
and  second  lesson  of  the  Church  service. 
This  is  no  longer  a  general  rule  in  the 
Church  of  England. 

Chapter  and  Verse.  To  r/i  ve  chapter 
and  rerfc  is  to  give  the  exact  authority  of 
a  statement,  as  the  name  of  the  author, 
the  title  of  the  book,  the  date  thereof, 
the  chapter  referred  to,  and  any  other 
particular  which  might  render  the  refer- 
ence easily  discoverable. 

Chapter  of  Accidents  {A).  Un- 
foreseen events.  To  trust  to  the  chapter 
of  accidents  is  to  trust  tiiat  something 
unforeseen  may  turn  up  in  your  favour. 
The  Roman  laws  were  divided  into 
books,  and  each  book  into  chapters. 
The  chapter  of  accidents  is  that  under 
the  head  of  accidents,  and  metaphoric- 
ally, the  sequence  of  imforeseeu  events. 

Chapter  of  Possibilities  (Z7/<').     A 

may-bo  in  the  course  of  events. 

Character.  In  eliaracter.  In  har- 
mony with  a  person's  actions,  etc. 

Oat  of  eliaracter.  Not  in  harmony 
with  a  jjersou's  actions,  writings,  pro- 
fession, age,  or  status  in  society. 

Character  [A).  An  oddity.  One 
who  has  a  distinctive  iDcculiarity  of 
maimer :  Sam  Weller  is  a  character, 
so  is  Pickwick.  And  Sam  Weller's  con- 
duct in  the  law-court  was  "in  charac- 
ter," but  had  he  betrayed  his  master  it 
would  have  been  "out  of  character." 

Charbon'nerie  Democrat'ique.    A 

new  Carbona'i'i  society,  founded  in  Paris 
on  the  princijjles  of  Babeuf.  The  object 
of  these  Rejiublicans  was  to  make  Paris 
the  centre  of  all  jjolitical  movements. 
{See  jmge  214,  col.  2,  Carboxari.) 

Charge. 

Cnrate  in  charge.  A  curate  placed  by 
a  bishop  in  charge  of  a  parish  where 
there  is  no  incumbent,  or  where  the  in- 
cumbent is  suspended. 

To  charge  oneself  with.  To  take  upon 
oneself  the  onus  of  a  given  task. 

Ih  give  charge  over.     To  set  one   in 

authority  over. 

"  I  gave  my  lirotber  Hanani  ....  charge  over 
Jerusalem."— Nelieiiiiah  vii.  l'. 

To  give  in  charge.  To  hand  over  a 
person  to  the  charge  of  a  policeman. 

To  have  in  charge.  To  have  the  care 
of  something. 

To  take  in  charge.  To  "  take  up"  a 
person  given  in  charge ;  to  take  upon 
oneself  the  responsibility  of  something. 


Cha.rge 


239 


Charlemagne 


Charge  {To).  To  make  an  attack  or 
onset  in  battle.  "To  charge  with 
bayonets  "  is  to  rush  on  the  enemy  with 
levelled  bayonets. 

To  rctnrn  to  the  charge.  To  renew 
the  attack. 

Charge  d' Affaires.  The  proxy  of  an 
ambassador,  or  tlie  diplomatic  agent 
where  none  higher  has  been  appointed. 

Charicle'ia.  The  lady-love  of  The- 
ag'enes  in  the  exquisite  erotic  Greek  ro- 
mance called  The  Loves  of  ThcMjenes 
and  Charicle'ia,  by  Heliodo'ros,  Bishop 
of  Trikka,  in  the  fourth  centmy. 

Charing  Cross.  Not  from  clicre 
retiie,  in  honour  of  Eleanor,  the  dear 
wife  of  Edward  I.,  but  la  chere  reine 
(the  Blessed  Virgin).  Hence,  in  the 
Close  Roll,  Richard  II.,  part  1  (1382), 
we  read  that  the  custody  of  the  falcons 
at  Charryng,  near  Westminster,  was 
granted  to  Simon  Burley,  who  was  to 
receive  r2d.  a  day  from  the  Wardrobe. 

V  A  corresijoudent  in  Notes  and 
Queries,  Dec.  'i8th,  1889,  p.  507,  suggests 
the  Anglo-Saxon  cerran  (to  turn),  allud- 
ing to  the  bend  of  the  Thames. 

"  Queeu  Eleanor  died  at  Horiili.v,  near  Lincoln, 
and  was  buried  at  Westminster.  In  every  town 
wliere  the  corpse  rested  tUe  king  caused  a  cross 
'of  cunning  workmanship'  to  be  erected  in  re- 
membrance of  her.  Tliere  were  fourteen, 'iouie  say 
tlfteen,  alto.b'ether.  The  three.wliicli  remain  are  in 
capitals:  Lincoln,  Newark,  Gr.anthani,  Leicester, 
Stamford,  UKDD1NL4T0N,  NUHTHA.MPTON, 
Stoiiv-Stratford,  Wohurn,  Dunstable,  St.  Albans, 
WALTHAM,  West-Cheap  a'heapside>,  Charing, 
and  Ujth  Herdly?i." 

•.•  In  front  of  the  South  Eastern  Railway  station 
'Strand)  is  a  model,  in  the  original  dimensions,  of 
the  old  cross,  which  was  made  of  Caen  stone,  and 
was  demolished  in  Ui43. 

Char'iot.  According  to  Greek  my- 
thology, the  chariot  was  invented  by 
Erichtho'nius  to  conceal  his  feet,  which 
were  those  of  a  dragon. 

"  Seated  in  car,  by  him  constructed  first 
To  hide  his  hideous  feet." 

Hose  :  Urkindo  Furioso,  xxxvii.  27. 

Chariot    of    the    Gods.      So    the 

Greeks  called  Sierra  Leo'ue,  in  Africa,  a 
ridge  of  mountains  of  great  height.  A 
sierra  means  a  saw,  and  is  applied  to  a 
ridge  of  peaked  mountains. 

"  Her  palmy  forests,  mingling  with  the  skies, 
Leoua's  rugged  steep  behind  us  tiies." 

Camueite :  Liisiad,  book  5. 

Chariots  or  Cars.    That  of 

Ai>M  I'/rns  was  drawn  by  lions  and  wild  boars. 

Ualthus  by  panthers. 

Ceres  .li  syl.i  by  winged  dragons. 

Cyb'ele  (3  syl.)  by  lions. 

DlAX.\.  by  stags. 

Juso  by  peacocks. 

Nbvtoxe  by  sea-horses. 

Pluto  by  black  horses. 

The  Sun  by  seven  horses  (the  seven  days  of 

the  week). 
Vbsus  by  doves. 


Charioteers  (in  Rome)  were  classed 
under  four  factions,  distinguished  by 
their  liveries: — white,  red,  sky-blue, 
and  green.  Domitian  added  two  more, 
viz.  the  golden  and  the  purple. 

Charities.    Masks. 

"  Our  ladies  laugh  at  bare-faced  trulls  when 
they  have  those  mutllers  on,  which  they  call 
masks,  and  which  were  formerly  much 'more 
prtiperly  called  charity,  because  they  cover  a 
multitude  of  s\\\s."—/iabeliiis  :  I'aiitaijruel,  v.  27. 

Charity.  Charit;/  ber/ins  at  home. 
' '  Let  them  learn  first  to  show  piety  at 
home  "  (1  Tim.  v.  4  and  8). 

Cold  as  charitii.  Than  which  what's 
colder  to  him  who  gives  and  him  who 
takes  y 

Chariva'ri.  The  clatter  made  with 
pots  and  pans,  whistling,  bawling,  hiss- 
ing, and  so  on.  Our  concert  of  "mar- 
row-bones and  cleavers"  ;  the  German 
Katzeninusik,  got  up  to  salute  with 
ridicule  imequal  marriages.  Tutich  is 
our  national  Charivari,  and  clatters 
weekly  against  political  and  social 
wroug-sidedness. 

Charlatan.  The  following  etymology 
is  statable  to  a  book  of  Phrase  and  Fable. 
It  is  said  that  one  Latan,  a  famous 
quack,  used  to  go  about  Paris  in  a 
gorgeous  car,  in  which  he  had  a  travel- 
Uug  dispensary.  A  man  Avith  a  horn 
announced  the  approach  of  this  magnate, 
and  the  delighted  siglitseers  used  to  cry 
out,  "  Voila  !  le  char  de  Latan.'''  When 
I  lived  in  Paris  I  often  saw  this  gorgeous 
car  ;  the  horn-man  had  a  drum  also,  and 
M.  Latan,  dressed  in  a  long  showy  robe, 
wore  sometimes  a  hat  with  feathers, 
sometimes  a  brass  helmet,  and  some- 
times a  showy  cap.  He  was  a  tooth- 
extracter  as  well  as  dispenser. 

Probably  "  Latan  "  was  an  assumed  name,  for 
charlatan  is  undoubtedly  the  Italian  ciarkitauo, 
a  btibbler  or  quack. 

Charlemagne.  His  nine  wives  were 
Hamiltrude,  a  jjoor  Prankish  woman, 
who  bore  him  several  children  ;  Desid- 
erata, who  was  divorced  ;  Hildegarde, 
Fastrade  (daughter  of  Count  Rodolph 
the  Saxon),  and  Luitgarde  the  German, 
all  three  of  whom  died  before  him ; 
Maltegarde  ;  Gersuinde  the  Saxon  ; 
Regi'na  ;  and  Adalinda. 

Charlemag)ie''s  2ieers.     (See  Paladins.) 

Charleniar/ne's  sword.     La  Joyeuse. 

I'}iire  Charleinar/nc.  To  carry  off  one's 
wiimings  without  giving  the  adversaries 
"  their  revenge." 

"  Faire  Charlemagne  c'est  se  retirer  du  jeu 
avec  tout  son  gain,  ne  point  donner  de  revanche. 
Charlemagne  garda  jusuu'  a  la  tin  toiites  ses  oon- 
quetes  et  (i^uitta  le  jeu  de  la  vie  sans  avidr  rien 
rendu  du  fruit  de  ses  victoires.  Le  jouetu'  qui  se 
retire  les  mains  pleins,  fait  comme  Charlemagne." 
—Gf'inn ;  liecreations,  i.  IStl. 


diaries 


240 


Chase' 


Charles.  An  ill-omened  name  for 
kings  : 

Enijhnid  :  Charles  I.  was  beheaded  by 
his  subjects. 

Charles  II.  lived  long  in  exile. 

Charles  Edward,  the  Young  Pre- 
tender, died  in  iroverty  and  disgrace  in 
France. 

France  :  Charles  I.,  the  Bald,  march- 
ing to  repel  the  invading  Saracens, 
was  forsaken  by  his  followers,  and  died 
of  poison  at  Erios. 

Charles  II.,  the  Fat,  reigned  wretch- 
edly, and  died  a  beggarly  dependent  on 
the  stinting  bounty  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Metz. 

Charles  III.,  the  Simple,  died  in  the 
dungeon  of  Chateau  Thierry. 

Charles  IV.,  the  Fair,  reigned  six 
years,  married  thrice,  but  buried  all  his 
children  except  one  daughter,  who  was 
forbidden  by  the  Salic  law  to  succeed  to 
the  crown. 

Charles  VI.  lived  and  died  an  idiot  or 
madman. 

Charles  VII.  starved  himself  to  death. 

Charles  VIII.  smashed  his  head  against 
the  lintel  of  a  doorway  in  the  Chateau 
Aniboise,  and  died  in  agony. 

Charles  IX.  died  at  the  age  of  twenty- 
four,  harrowed  in  conscience  for  the 
part  he  had  taken  in  the  ' '  Massacre  of 
St.  Bartholomew." 

Charles  X.  spent  a  quarter  of  a  cen- 
tury in  exile,  and  when  he  succeeded  to 
the  throne,  tied  for  his  life  and  died  in 
exile. 

Charles  le  Temt'raire,  of  Burgundy, 
lost  his  life  at  Nancy,  where  he  was 
utterly  defeated  by  the  Swiss. 

Kaples :  Charles  I.  saw  the  French 
massacred  iu  the  "Sicilian  Vespers," 
and  experienced  only  disasters. 

Charles  II.,  the  Lame,  was  in  cap- 
tivity at  his  father's  death. 

Charles  III.,  his  grandson,  was  assas- 
sinated.     (6VeJANE.) 

Charles  I.  When  Bernini's  bust  of 
Charles  I.  was  brought  home,  the  King 
was  sitting  in  the  garden  of  Chelsea 
Palace.  He  ordered  the  bust  to  be  un- 
covered, and  at  the  moment  a  hawk 
with  a  bird  in  its  beak  flew  by,  and  a 
drop  of  the  blood  fell  on  the  throat  of 
the  bust.  The  bust  was  ultimately 
destroyed  when  the  palace  was  burnt 
down. 

Charles  and  the  Oak.  When 
Charles  II.  fled  from  the  Parliamentary 
army,  he  took  refuge  in  Boscobel  House ; 
but  when  he  deemed  it  no  longer  safe  to 
remain  there,  he  concealed  himself  in  an 


oak.  Dr.  Stukeley  says  that  this  tree 
"stood  just  by  a  horse-track  jiassiug 
through  the  wood,  and  the  king,  with 
Colonel  Carlos,  climbed  into  it  by  means 
of  the  hen-roost  ladder.  The  family 
reached  them  victuals  with  a  nut- 
hook."  {Itinerariiiin  C'liriv'siiiii,  iii.  i). 
TjI,  1724.) 

Charles's  Wain.  The  constellation 
called  the  Great  Bear,  which  forms  the 
outline  of  a  wheelbarrow  or  rustic 
wagon.  "Charles"  is  a  corruption  of 
the  word  churlcs.  the  farmer's  wagon. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  ccorlcs  tvccn.) 

"  Sometimes  still  further  corrupted 
into  "King  Charles's  wain." 

Charleys,  or  Charlies.  The  old  night 
watch,  before  the  police  force  was  organ- 
ised iu  1829.  So  called  from  Charles  I., 
in  whose  reign  the  system  was  re-organ- 
ised.    (1640.) 

Charlotte  Elizabeth.  Mrs.  Tonna 
(1792-1846). 

Charm  means  a  song.  Incantation 
is  singing  on  or  against  some  one.  En- 
chant is  the  same.     (Latin,  carnieii.) 

Charon's  Toll  \j:arc'-u)!'\.  A  coin, 
about  equal  to  a  penny,  placed  in  the 
mouth  or  hand  of  the  dead  to  pay 
Charon  for  ferrying  the  spirit  across  the 
river  Styx  to  the  Elysian  flelds. 

Charter.     {See  People's  Chaetee.) 

Chartism.  The  political  system  of 
the  Chartists,  who,  in  1838,  demanded 
the  People's  Charter,  consisting  of  five 
principles :  imiversal  suffrage,  annual 
parliaments,  stipendiary  members,  vote 
by  ballot,  and  electoral  districts. 

Charyb'dis  \_ch=zk'\.  A  whirlpool 
on  the  coast  of  Sicily.  Scylla  and  Cha- 
rybdis  are  employed  to  signify  two  equal 
dangers.  Thus  Horace  says  an  author 
trying  to  avoid  Scylla,  drifts  into  Cha- 
ry bdis,  i.e.  seeking  to  avoid  one  fault, 
falls  into  another.  The  tale  is  that 
Charybdis  stole  the  oxen  of  Hercules, 
was  killed  by  lightning,  and  changed  into 
the  gulf. 

"Tlius  when  I  sbun  Scylla,  youv  fatlicr,  I  fall 
into  Charybdis,  your  iiiotlier."  —  Shakesficare  : 
ile)\-hant  of  Venice,  iii.  5. 

Chase  {A).  A  small  deer-forest  held, 
for  the  most  part,  by  a  private  indivi- 
dual, and  protected  only  by  common 
law.  Forests  are  roijal  prerogatives, 
protected  by  the  "  Forest  Laws." 

Chase  {A).  An  iron  frame  used  by 
printers  for  holding  sulficient  type  for 


Chasidim 


241 


Cheap 


one  side  of  a  sheet.  The  type  is  first 
set  up  letter  by  letter  iii  the  "  composiiig 
stick,"  and  is  then  transferred  to  tlie 
'"galley,"  where  it  appears  in  columus. 
It  is  next  divided  into  pages,  and  then 
transferred  to  the  chase,  where  it  is  lield 
tight  by  quoins,  or  small  wedges  of 
wood.  The  word  is  French,  cliasse  (a 
frame) ;  our  caxc-uunt.     {Sec  Stick.) 

Chas'idim  and  Zad'ikim.  After 
tlie  Eabj'lunish  captivity  the  Jews  were 
divided  into  two  groups — those  who 
accepted  and  those  Avho  rejected  the 
Persian  innovation.  The  former  were 
called  pietisin  (chasidim),  and  the  latter 
uprir//iis  (zadikiiu). 

Chasseurs  de  Vincennes  (French). 
Tlie  Duke  of  Orleans'  ritle  corps ;  .so 
called  because  they  were  garrisoned  at 
Vincennes.     (1835.) 

Chat.  Kid  d'inifl  soiins  chnis  Vorcille 
d'liii  cliat.  A  mare's  nest.  This  French 
phrase  is  the  tianslation  of  a  line  in 
WjaikjTi  de  Worde's  Aniudtig  Qitestion.s, 
printed  in  English  in  loll.  "  Demand  : 
What  is  that  that  never  was  and  never 
will  be ':"  Itesponsc :  A  mouse's  nest  in 
a  cat's  ear."     {>Scc  Make's  Nest.) 

Chat  de  Beaugency  (Xc).  Keeping 
the  Avord  of  promise  to  the  ear,  but 
breaking  it  to  the  sense.  The  legend  is 
this  :  An  architect  was  emi^loyed  to  con- 
struct a  bridge  over  the  Loii-e,  opposite 
Beaugency,  bat  not  being  able  to  ac- 
complish it,  made  a  league  with  tlie 
devil  to  give  his  sable  majesty  the  first 
living  being  which  ci'ossed  the  bridge. 
The  devil  supposed  it  would  be  the 
architect  himself,  but  when  the  bridge 
was  finished  the  man  threw  a  cat  for- 
wards, and  it  ran  over  the  bridge  like  a 
wild  thing.  The  devil  was  furious,  but 
a  bargain's  a  bargain,  and  the  "cat  of 
Beaugency  "  became  a  proverb. 

Chateaux  en  Espagne.  \_Cmtles  in 
Spiiin.]  _  A  castle  in  the  air;  something 
that  exists  only  in  the  imagination.  In 
Spain  there  are  no  chateaux.  {See 
Castle.) 

C7i iiteciu.  Many  wines  are  named  after 
the  manor  on  which  the  grapes  are 
gro\vn:  as  Cluiteau  Lajitte,  Chateau,  La 
Tour,  Clidlean  Mnrr/aux,  Chateau  Rose 
(and  Bordeaux),  Chateau  Yqxein  (a  white 
Bordeaux),  etc. 

Chat'telin's.  A  fashionable  coffee- 
house in  the  reign  of  Charles  II. 

"  MtH  tlieir  servant  cnming  to  bring  nie  to  Cliat- 
eliii's,  till'  French  house,  in  Covent  l-iarden,  and 
then-  with  music  ami  aootl  coniiianv  .  .  .  niii-'litv 
iu"ny  till  ten  at  niu'lit.  The  Duke  of  Monnirmtii 
ami  a  great  many  blades  were  at  Chatelin's,  and  I 
left  them  there."— Pt;/!,^';  Diary,  April  s^nil,  lUiB. 

16 


Chatterbox.  A  talkative  person. 
The  Germans  have  Plandertatichc  (chat- 
ter bag).  Shakespeare  speaks  of  the 
clack-dish.  "His  use  was  to  ijut  a 
ducat  in  her  clack-dish"  {Measure  for 
Measure,  iii.  2) — i.e.  the  box  or  dish  used 
by  beggars  for  collecting  alms,  which 
the  holder  clatters  to  attract  attention. 
We  find  also  chatter-basket  in  old 
writers,  referring  to  the  child's  rattle. 

Chatterhouse.  To  go  through  tlie 
ehatterJioiise.  Between  the  legs  of  one  or 
more  boys,  set  apart  like  an  inverted  a, 
who  strike,  witli  their  hands  or  caps, 
the  victim  as  he  creeps  through.  Halli- 
well  {Archaic  Diet.)  gives  chat,  a  small 
twig,  and  chatter,  to  bruise ;  also  cJiat- 
toeks,  refuse  wood  left  in  making  fag- 
gots. Probablj',  the  boys  used  little 
twigs  or  sticks  instead  of  caps  or  hands. 
And  to  go  through  chatterhouse  means 
to  get  a  trouucmg  or  tunding.  The  pun 
between  chatterhouse  and  charterhouse 
is  obvious. 

Chatterpie.  Same  as  chatterbox. 
The  pie  means  the  magpie,  {^og,  to 
chatter.)     (See  llalliaell.) 

Chaucer  of  Painting  {The).  Albert 
Diirer  of  Xurnberg  (1471-lo28;.  "The 
prince  of  artists." 

Chauvin.  A  bHnd  idolater  of  Xapo- 
leon  the  Great.  The  name  is  taken 
from  Les  Aides  do  Camp,  by  Bayard  and 
Dumanoir,  but  was  popularised  in 
Charet's  Conscrit  Chauvin. 

Chauvinism.  A  blind  idolatry  of 
Napoleon  the  Great.  Now  it  means 
a  blind  and  pugnacious  patriotism :  a 
warlike  spirit. 

"Chauvin,  patriote  ardent,  jusnu'a  I'exagi-ra- 
tion.  Allusion  au  uoni  d'un  type  de  caricature 
populaire,  coiiinie  le  prouve  cet  exeiuple:  isi'o, 
epocjue  ou  un  liberalism  plus  larue  commenga  a 
se  moquer  de  ces  eloges  donncs  aux  ciuiscrit 
Chauvin,  tit  justice  de  ces  niaiseriesde  I'opinion." 
—Lore'dan  J.archey :  Dictioimaire  de  VArpot  Ja- 
risicn,  ISTL'. 

Chawbacon  {A).  An  uncouth  rustic, 
supposed  to  eat  no  meat  but  bacon. 

1  myself  knew  a  most  respectable  dav-laliourer. 
who  liad  saved  up  enough  money  to  keep  liiniselt 
in  old  age,  who  told  me  he  never  saw  or  touched 
any  meat  m  his  cottage  but  bacon,  except  once  a 
year,  and  that  was  oh  club-day  iLsrui.  He  never 
ate  rabbit,  game,  chicken,  or  duck. 

Chawed  up.  Done  for,  utterly  dis- 
comfited, demolished.     [American.) 

Che  sa'ra,  sa'ra.  What  shall  be 
will  be.  The  motto  of  the  Eussells 
(Bedford). 

"  Wh.-it  doctrine  call  ye  tins,  Che  sara,  sara  ?  "— 
Faust  (Aiister't:  translation),  i,  1. 

Cheap  as  a  Sardinian.  A  Eoman 
phrase  referring  to  the  great  crowds  of 


Cheap  Jack 


242 


Cheeseparer 


Sardiiiiau  prisouers  brouglit  to  Rome  by 
Tiberius  Gracchus,  and  offered  for  sale 
at  almost  auy  price. 
Cheap    Jack.    Jack,  the  diap-man. 

Not  clicup,  m(;aiiiiig  low-priced,  but 
clica])  meauiiif^  merchant,  as  in  "chap- 
man," "Clie;ij)-side,"etc.  Jack  is  a  tenn 
applied  to  inferior  persons,  etc.  (Saxon, 
cr/ju,  a  merchant ;  ccupiaii,  to  buy  ;  ccajj- 
iiKOui,  a  tradesman.)     {'See  Jack.) 

Cheapside  Bargain  {A).  A  very 
weak  pun,  meanin<r  that  the  article  was 
bought  cheap  or  under  its  market  value. 

Cheater  (2  syl.)  originally  meant  an 
I'.ncltcuior  or  otticer  of  the  king's  ex- 
chequer appointed  to  receive  dues  and 
taxes.  The  present  nse  of  tlie  word 
shows  how  these  officers  were  wont  to 
fleece  the  jDeople.     (<S'«'  Catchpolk). 

'.'  Compare  with  escheator  the  New 
Testament  word  "  Publicans,"  or  col- 
lectors of  the  llonian  tax  in  Juda;a,  etc. 

Chech.  Called  also  stone-chest,  kist- 
vaen  (a  sepulcln-al  monument  or  crom- 
lecli). 

"  We  llnd  a  rude  cliecli  or  flat  stnne  nf  an  oval 
f(irni,:iliinit  three  yards  in  leiiprtli,  live  feet  over 
where  liroadest,  ami  ten  or  twelve  inches  tliick." 

Checkmate,  in  the  game  of  che.ss, 
means  placing  your  adversary's  king  in 
such  a  position  that  he  can  neither  cover 
nor  move  out  of  check.  Figuratively, 
"  to  checkmate  "  means  to  foil  or  outwit 
another ;  elieekniatcd,  outmanteuvred. 
"Mate"  (Arabic,  iiiCit,  dead;  Spanish, 
liiatar,  to  kill).  The  Gemian  scltaeh 
means  both  chess  and  check,  and  the 
Italian  seacco  means  the  squares  of  the 
chess-board  ;  but  f^chach-nnttt  and  seneeo- 
matto  =  check-mate.  The  French  echcc 
is  a  "stoppage,"  whence  donner  ov faire 
ichec  et  mat,  to  make  a  stoppage  (check) 
and  dead  ;  tlie  Sj)anish,  xaque  dc  mate 
means  the  check  of  death  (or  final  check). 

V  If  we  go  to  Arabic  for  "mate,"  why 
not  go  there  for  "check"  also'r'  And 
"  sheik  mat "  =:  the  king  dead,  would  be 
consistent  and  exact.     (<^Ve  Chess.) 

Cheek.  I\onc  of  your  chcel;.  None 
of  j'our  insolence.  "None  of  j'our 
jaw  "  means  none  of  j'our  nagging  or 
word  irritation. 

*,*  We  say  a  man  is  very  cheeky,  mean- 
ing that  he  is  saucy  and  presumptuous. 

To  yirc  check.  To  be  insolent.  "  Give 
me  none  of  your  cheek." 

To  hare  the  check.     To  have  tlie  face 

or  assurance.     "He  hadn't  the  cheek  to 

ask  for  more." 

"On  acrount  of  his  having  so  nuicU  cheeUi"— 
Dickais:  Bleak  House. 


Cheek  {T<>).  To  be  saucy.  "You 
must  cheek  him  well,"  i.e.  confront  him 
with  fearless  iini)udence  ;  face  him  out. 

Cheek  by  Jowl.  In  intimate  con- 
fabnlatidii;  trtc-ci-tctc.  Cheek  is  the 
Anglo-Saxon  ccca,  cedc-hdn,  clieek-bone  ; 
and  jowl  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  ccolc  (the 
jaw) ;  Irish,  gxal. 

"I'll  tro  with  thee,  cheek  hy  jowl."— iSVmte- 
speare :  Mkltmijimer  A'tyht's  lireiiiii,  iii.  2. 

Cheese. 

Tus.scr  saj's  that  a  cheese,  to  be  per- 
fect, should  not  be  like  (1)  Geha/.i,  /.'-. 
dead  white,  like  a  leper ;  (2)  not  like 
Lot's  wife,  all  salt ;  (15)  not  like  Argus, 
full  of  eyes ;  (4)  not  like  Tom  Piper, 
"  lioven  and  puffed,"  like  the  cheeks  of 
a  piper  ;  (.5)  not  like  Cri-;pin,  leatherj' ; 
(())  not  like  Lazarus,  poor  ;  (7)  not  like 
Esau,  hairy  ;  (8)  not  like  Mary  !M;igda- 
lene,  full  of  whey  or  maudlin  ;  (9)  not 
like  tlie  Gentiles,  full  of  maggots  or 
gentils ;  and  (lU)  not  like  a  bishop, 
made  of  l)urnt  milk.  {Fire  Jliindred 
I'oiiitx  of  Goiid  JIi(s/jinidiy.) 

V  A  cheese  which  has  no  resemblance 
to  these  ten  defects  is  "quite  the  cheese." 

Bread  and  cheese.  Food  generallv,  but 
of  a  frugal  nature.  "Come  and  take 
your  bread  and  cheese  with  me  this 
evening." 

A  (jrecn  cheenc.    An  unripe  cheese. 

The  moon  made  of  fp-eoi  cheese.  A 
slight  resemblance,  but  not  in  the  least 
likelj'.  "You  will  persuade  him  to 
believe  that  the  moon  is  made  of  green 
cheese."     {Sec  ahorc.) 

^Tis  an  old  rat  that  )rou''t  cat  cheese. 
It  must  be  a  woudrously  toothless  man 
that  is  inaccessible  to  flatteiy  ;  he  nuKst 
bo  very  old  indeed  wlio  can  abandon  his 
favourite  indulgence;  only  a  very  cun- 
ning rat  knows  that  cheese  is  a  mere 
bait. 

Cheese.  Something  choice  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  ceos-an,  to  choose  ;  (ieiniMn, 
kiescn  ;  Fiench,  choisir).  Chaucer  .says, 
"To  cheese  whether  she  wold  him  niarry 
or  no." 

"Now  thou  niiplit  cheese 
How  thou  couetist  [covetest]  to  calnie,  now  thou 
Knowist  all  mi  names." 

r.  Ploiuihmati's  Visimi. 

It  is  not  the  cheese.  Not  the  right 
thing ;  not  what  I  should  clioose. 

He  is  (jHttc  tlie  cheese  or  J/isi  the  cheese 
— i.e.  quite  the  thing.  By  a  double 
refinement  we  get  the  slang  varieties, 
ThaVs  prime  Stilton,  ov  double  Glo'ster — 
i.e.  slap  bang  up. 

Cheeseparer  {A).  A  skinflint;  a 
man  of  small  savings ;  economy  carried 


Cheeseparing 


243 


Cherry 


to  excess — like  one  who  pares  or  shaves 
off  very  thinly  the  rind  of  his  cheese 
instead  of  cutting  it  off.  The  tale  is 
well  known  of  the  man  who  cliose  his 
wife  out  of  three  sisters  hy  the  way  they 
ate  theii'  cheese.  One  pared  it— she  (he 
said)  was  mean  ;  one  cut  it  off  exti-ava- 
gaiitly  thick — she  was  wasteful ;  the 
third  sliced  it  off  in  a  medium  way,  and 
tliure  liis  choice  fell. 

Cheeseparing  Economy.  A  useless 
economy.  The  French  say,  "  Z'ne  econo- 
mic dc  hoiits  (Ic  chaudcUv."  The  allusion 
is  to  the  well-known  tale  of  a  man  who 
chose  one  of  three  sisters  for  wife  by 
the  way  they  pared  their  cheese.  {See 
ahnrc.) 

Cheese-Toaster  (^J).  A  sword;  also 
called  a  "toasting-fork."  "Come!  out 
with  your  toaster."  In  Latin  rem 
means  a  dart,  a  spit  used  in  roasting,  or 
a  toasting  fork.  Thus  we  have  '•'•  pny- 
nimt  miicrone  rcruque  SahcUo  "  {^l^it.  vii. 
663),  and  in  JEii.  i.  '210,  etc.,  we  read 
that  the  men  prepared  their  sujjper, 
after  slaying  the  beasts,  '  'pars  in  friistra 
secant,  vcniliis/jiie  trementia  fguntV  In 
the  former  example  rem  is  used  for  an 
instrument  of  war,  and  in  the  latter  for 
a  toasting-fork  or  spit. 

Cheesewring  (Lynton,  Devon).  A 
mass  of  eight  stones,  towering  to  the 
height  of  thirty-two  feet  ;  .so  called 
because  it  looks  like  a  gigantic  cheesc- 
pi'ess.  This  is  probably  a  natural  work, 
the  effect  of  some  convulsion.  The 
Kilmarth  Eocks,  and  part  of  Hugh 
Lloyd's  Pulpit,  present  somewhat  sunOar 
jiiles  of  stone. 

Chef  d'(Euvre.  A  masterpiece. 
(French.)     (Pronounce  sha  deuvr.) 

Chemistry  {Iccnvistry]  is  from  the 
Arabic  kiniia,  whence  al-kiinia  (the 
occult  art),  from  kamai  (to  conceal). 

Inovf/anic  c/iemistri/  is  tliat  branch  of 
chemistry  which  is  limited  to  metallic 
and  non-metallic  substances,  which  are 
not  organised  bodies. 

Orf/anic  cJicmistri/  is  devoted  to  or- 
ganised bodies  and  their  elements. 

Che'mos  or  CJwmosh  [Kce'mosh']. 
War- god  of  the  Moabites  ;  god  of  lust. 

'■  Xext,  Chemos,  tbe  obscene  dre;ia  of  iloab's 
sons, 
Fniin  Ar'oer  to  Nelio,  and  the  wild 
Of  southniDSt  Ab'arim." 

Milton  :  Faradise  Lost,  hook  i,  406-8. 

Chennap'pa.  The  city  of  Chen- 
itappa.  So  Madras  is  called  by  the 
natives. 


Chenu  (French).  Hoary, grey-headed. 
This  word  is  much  used  in  Paris  to  sig- 
nify good,  delicate,  exquisite  in  Jtaroi/r, 
delicious,  de  hon  gout.  It  was  originally 
applied  to  wine  which  is  improved  by 
age.  Thus  we  hear  commonly  in  Paris 
the  expression,  "  Voild  dii  Tin  qui  est 
hicn  chenu''''  (mellow  with  age) .  Some- 
times gr'is  (grey.with  age)  is  substituted, 
as,  "xVoMS  en  boirons  tant  de  ce  bon  rin 
gris"  {Le  Tresor  dcs  Chansons  Now. elles, 
p.  78).  The  word,  however,  is  by  no 
means  limited  to  wine,  but  is  appUeJ  to 
well-nigh  everything  worthy  of  com- 
mendation. We  even  hear  Chenu  lleltiit, 
good  morning  ;  and  Chenu  sorgue,  good 
night.  "Reluit,"  of  course,  means 
"sunshine,"  and  "sorgue"  is  an  old 
French  word  for  evening  or  brown. 
"Chenumeut"  —a  merveilh'. 

Chequers.  A  pubUc-hou.se  sign.  In 
England  without  doubt  the  arms  of 
Fitzwarren,  the  hf  ad  of  which  house,  in 
the  days  of  the  Henrys,  was  invested 
with  the  power  of  Uceusing  vintners  and 
publicans,  may  have  helped  to  popu- 
larise this  sign,  which  indicated  that  the 
house  was  duly  licensed ;  but  the  sign 
has  been  found  on  houses  in  exhumed 
Pompeii,  and  probably  referred  to  some 
game,  like  our  draughts,  which  might 
be  indulged  in  on  the  premises.  Pos- 
sibly in  some  cases  certain  public-houses 
were  at  one  time  used  for  the  payment 
of  doles,  etc.,  and  a  chequer-board  was 
provided  for  the  ])urpose.  In  such  cases 
the  sign  indicated  tlie  house  where  the 
parish  authorities  met  for  that  and  other 
purx'oses. 

Cherone'an  [ch=k].  The  Chcv(»)can 
Sage.  Plutarch,  who  was  born  at 
Chajrons'a,  in  Bceotia  (46-120). 

"This  vlirase,  O  C'lieronean  sagp,  is  thine." 
Beattie  :  Minstrel. 

Cherry.  The  u-hole  tree  or  tioi  a 
cherrg  on  it.  "  Aut  Casar  out  nullus." 
All  in  all  or  none  at  all. 

"This  Hospitaller  seems  to  be  one  of  tliose 
pragmatical  knaves  who  must  have  the  whole 
tree',  or  they'll  not  have  a  cherry  on  it." 

To  make  ttco  bites  of  a  cherrg.  To 
divide  something  too  small  to  be  worth 
dividing. 

Cherry  Fairs.  Now  called  tea- 
gardens.  Nothing  to  do  with  cherries ; 
it  is  cheeiy  fairs — i.e.  gay  or  recreation 
fairs.  A  "  cheering  "  is  a  merry- 
making. Halliwell  tells  us  that  "  Cheriy 
(or  rather  chery)  fairs  are  still  held  in 
Worcestershire."     Gower  says  of  this 


Cherry 


244 


Chevy  Chase 


world,  "Alle  is  but  a  cherye-fayre,"  a 
phrase  frequently  met  with. 

"This  life,  mv  son,  is  init  a  cliery-fayre."— J/.S". 
BoiU.  Tj\  tciinitcd  by  llalUtcell). 

Cherry  Trees   and    the    Cuckoo. 

The  clierry  tree  is  strangely  mixed  up 
with  the  cuckoo  in  many  cuckoo  stories, 
because  of  the  tradition  that  the  cuckoo 
must  eat  three  good  meals  of  cherries 
before  he  is  allowed  to  cease  singing. 

"  f'uckod,  ciicknii,  cliprry-tree, 
Gooii  liii-d,  iiritbee,  tell  to  me 
How  many  years  I  am  to  see." 

The  answer  is  made  by  the  cuckoo 
repeating  its  cry  the  prophetic  number 
of  times. 

Cher'ubims.  The  11th  Hussars  are 
so  called,  by  a  bad  pun,  because  their 
trousers  are  of  a  chcrrij  colour. 

Chery  and  Fair-Star.  Chery  was 
the  sou  of  a  king's  brother  and  Bru- 
netta  ;  Fair-star  was  the  daughter  of 
the  king  and  Blond'iua,  the  two  fathers 
being  brotliers,  and  the  two  mothers 
sisters.  They  were  cast  on  the  sea 
adrift,  but  were  found  and  brought  up 
by  a  corsair  and  his  wife.  Ultimately 
they  are  told  of  their  birth  by  a  green 
bird,  and  marry  each  other.  This  tale 
is  imitated  from  The  Sisters  who  Enrivd 
their  Yoiniijer  Sister,  in  Arabian  Niglits. 

N.B. — The  name  is  from  the  French 
cher  (dear),  and  is  about  equal  to 
"deary"  or  "dear  one."  It  is  quite 
wrong  to  spell  it  with  a  double  r. 
{Comtesse  (rAidnoij  :  lairi/  Talcs.) 

Cheshire  is  the  Latin  castra' -shire, 
called  by  the  Romans  Deva'na  castra 
(the  camp  town  of  Deva,  or  Dee- 
mouth). 

Chess.  Called  by  the  Hindus  chctur- 
niuja  (the  four  angas) — i.e.  the  four 
members  of  the  army — viz.  elephants, 
horses,  chariots,  and  foot-soldiers;  called 
by  the  ancient  Persians  chetrang.  The 
Arabs,  who  have  neither  c  nor  g,  called 
it  shctranj,  which  modern  Persians  cor- 
rupted into  sacehi,  whence  the  Italian 
scaechi,  German  schach,  French  echcc, 
our  chess.     {See  page  242,  Checkmate.) 

Chesterfield,  lauded  by  Thomson  in 
his  Wmter  is  the  fourth  earl,  author  of 
ChesterJieltVs  Letters  to  His  Son  (1694- 
1773). 

Chesterfield  House  (London)  was  built 
by  Isaac  Ware  for  Philip,  fourth  earl  of 
Chesterfield.     {See  above.) 

Chestnut.  A  stale  joke.  In  The 
Brolioi  Sirord,  an  old  melodrama  by 
William  Dillon,  Captain  Xavier  isfor  ever 


telling  the  same  jokes  with  variations. 
He  was  telling  about  one  of  his  exploits 
connected  with  a  cork-tree,  when  Pablo 
corrects  him,  "  A  chestnut-tree  you 
mean,  captain."  "Bah!  (replied  the 
captain)  I  saj'  a  cork-tree."  "  A  chest- 
nut-tree," insists  Pablo.  "  I  must 
know  better  than  you  (said  the  captain)  ; 
it  was  a  cork-tree,  I  say."  "  A  chest- 
nut (persisted  Pablo).  I  have  heard 
you  tell  the  joke  twenty-seven  time.s 
and  I  am  sure  it  was  a  chestnut." 

"Is  not  tliis  an  ilUistration  of  the  enduiinK 
vitality  of  the  'chestnut'?  [joke]."— i\'o(es  and 

Chestnut  Sunday.  Rogation  Sim- 
day,  or  the  Sunday  before  Ascension 
Day. 

Cheval  (French,  a  cheval).  Troops 
are  arranged  a  cheral  wlien  they  com- 
mand two  roads,  as  Wellington's  army 
at  Waterloo,  which,  being  at  tlie  apex 
of  two  roads,  commanded  that  between 
Charleroi  and  Brussels,  as  well  as  that 
to  Mons. 

"The  Western  Powers  will  assuredly  never 
jiermit  Russia  to  place  herself  again  a  cheval 
between  the  Ottoman  empire  and  Persia."-. r/ie 
Times. 

Cheval   de    Bataille    (His).      His 

strong  argument.  (See  Xotes  and  Queries, 
May  22nd,  188G,  p.  410.) 

Chevalier    d'Industrie.       A    man 

who  lives  by  his  wits  and  calls  himself  a 
gentleman. 

"  Denicheur  de  fauvettes,  chevalier  de  I'ordre 
de  I'lnditstrie,  qui  va  chercher  iiueluuo  hou  nid, 
(luelijue  fenmie  qui  lui  fasse  sa  fortune."— Gon- 
gam,  ou  I'Hoinme  Prodigieux  (1713). 

Chevalier  du  Brouillard  (X^).  The 

French  Jack  Shcppard.     A  drama. 

Chevaux  de  Frise  (French).  Horses 
of  Friesland.  A  beam  filled  with  spikes 
to  keep  ofl:  horses ;  so  called  from  its  use 
in  the  siege  of  Gron'ingen,  Friesland,  in 
1594.  A  somewhat  similar  engine  had 
been  used  before,  but  was  not  called  by 
the  same  name.  In  Genuan  it  is  "a 
Spanish  horseman"  {eiii  Spaiiiseher 
Hciter). 

Cheveril.  He  lias  a  chereril  con- 
science. One  that  will  easily  stretch  like 
cheveril  or  kid  leather. 

"Oh,  here's  a  wit  of  cheveril,  that  stretches 
from  an  inch   narrow  to  an  ell  broad!" — Shake- 
speare :  Itomeo  and  Juliet,  li.  i. 
"  Your  soft  cheveril  conscience  -wnnld  receive, 
If  you  might  please  to  stretch  it." 

Shakespeare :  Jlenry  Vllf.,  ii.  3. 

Chevy  Chase.  There  had  long  been 
a  rivalry  between  the  families  of  Percy 
and  Douglas,  which  showed  itself    by 


Chiabreresco 


24o 


Chicken 


incessant  raids  into  each  other's  terri- 
tory. Percy  of  Northumberland  one 
day  vowed  he  would  hunt  for  three  days 
in  the  Scottish  border,  without  conde- 
scending to  ask  leave  of  Earl  Douglas. 
The  Scotch  warden  said  in  his  auger, 
"  Tell  this  vauuter  he  shall  find  one  day 
more  than  sufficieut."  The  ballad  called 
Clicvii  C'/iasc  mixes  up  this  hunt  with  the 
battle  of  Otterburn,  which.  Dr.  Percy 
justly  observes,  was  "a  very  different 
event."  (Chaucer,  c/ievachic,  a  military 
expedition  on  horseback.) 

"  Til  louiler  straius  lie  raised  his  voice,  to  tell 
What  wnfiil  wars  in  '  t'hevy  Chase'  liefell, 
AVheu  Percy  drove  the  deer  with  hound  and 

horn, 
■Wars  to  be  wept  Ijy  children  yet  unborn." 

Gay :  Pastoral  VT, 

Chiabreres'co  (Italian).  Poetry 
formed  on  the  Greek  model ;  so  called 
from  Gabriel  Chi;ibre'ra,  surnamed  the 
"Pindar  of  Italy"  (1552-1637). 

Chiar-oscuro  [pronounce  ke-ar-roa- 
Jcii'-ro].  A  style  of  painting  now  called 
"  black  and  white." 

"Chiar-oscuro  ....  is  the  art  of  representing 
liKht  in  shadow  and  shadow  in  light,  so  that  the 
parts  represented  in  shadow  shall  still  have  the 
clearness  and  warmth  of  those  in  light:  and 
those  in  light,  the  depth  and  softness  of  those  in 
shadow."— C/iamtej'S  .•  Encyclopcedia,  iii.  p.  171. 

Chib'ia'bos.  The  musician  ;  the  har- 
mony of  nature  jjersonified.  He  teaches 
the  birds  to  sing  aud  the  brooks  to  war- 
ble as  they  flow.  "  All  the  many  sounds 
of  nature  borrow  sweetness  from  his 
singing." 

"  Very  dear  to  Hiawatha 
■Was  the  gentle  Chiliiabos. 
For  his  gentleness  he  loved  him, 
And  the  magic  of  his  singing." 

LoiiijfeUow :  Iliaa-atha,  vi. 

Chibouque  (A).  A  smoking-pipe  with 
a  long  tube,  used  in  the  East  (Turkish). 

Chic.  Fashionable  ;  comme  il  faiit ; 
the  mode.  This  is  an  archaic  French 
word  in  vogue  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury. It  really  is  the  Spanish  chico, 
little,  also  a  little  boj',  and  ehica,  a  little 
girl  or  darling.  Similarly,  icer  in  Scotch 
is  a  loving  term  of  admiration  and  pride. 
(Chic  is  an  abbreviation  of  the  Gennan 
f/eschickt,  apt,  clever.) 
"  J'use  de  mots  de  I'art,  je  met  en  marge  lilc ; 

J'espere  avec  le  terns  que  j'entendrai  le  chic." 
Les  Satyres  de  Vii  Lorcns,  xii.  p.  'J7. 

Aroir  le  chic.  To  have  the  knack  of 
doing  the  thing  smartly. 

Chicard  and  c/iica>idard=:  elegant,  do 
ffvand  sti/le,  are  very  common  expressions 
■with  artists. 

Chich'ivache  (3  syl.).  French  for 
the  ''sorry  cow,"  a  monster  that  lived 
only  on  good  women — all  skin  and  bone, 


because  its  food  was  so  extremely  scarce. 
The  old  English  romancers  invented 
another  monster,  which  they  called 
Bicorn,  as  fat  as  the  other  was  lean ; 
but,  luckily,  he  had  for  food  "  good  and 
enduring  husbands,"  of  which  there  is 
no  lack.     {Sec  Bicoen.) 

"  O  noble  wy ves,  ful  of  heigh  prudeu'ce. 
Let  noon  humilitie  your  tonges  nayle : 
No  lat  no  clerk  have  cause  or  diligen'ce 

T(j  write  of  you  a  story  of  such  mervayle 
As  of  Griseldes,  pacient  and  kynde. 
Lest  Chichi-vache  you  swolweiu  h jr  entraile." 
Chaucer :  L'  Envoy e  de  Cliaucer,  v.  9064. 

The  French  cJtic/ic -face  means  "thin- 
face."     Lydgate  wrote  a  poem  entitled 

JBi/co me  (Did  Uh ii'/icvache. 

Chick-a-biddy  (A).  A  child's  name 
for  a  young  cliicken,  and  a  mother's 
word  of  endearment  to  her  young  child. 
"Biddy"  is  merely  the  call  of  a  chUd, 
bid-bid-bid- bid  to  a  chicken. 

"  Do  you,  sweet  Rob  ?  Do  you  truly,  chicka- 
biddy ? "— Dickens :  Doinbey  and  Son. 

Chicken,  (plural  ch ickens).  It  is  quite 
a  mistake  to  suppose  "chickens"  to  be 
a  double  plural.  The  Anglo-Saxon 
is  cicen,  plural  ciccu-u.  We  have  a  few 
pliu'al  fonns  in  -en,  as  o.x-eu,  brack-en, 
children,  brethren,  hosen,  aud  eyeu ; 
but  of  these  children  and  brethren  are 
not  the  most  ancient  forms.  "Chick" 
is  a  mere  contraction  of  cliicken. 

The  old  plural  forms  of  "child"  are  child-r-e, 
dialectic  child-cr;  childnn  is  a  later  form.  The 
<dd  plural  formsof  "  liroth:'r"  a.rehrnthru.hruthri', 
hrelli re;  later  forms  are  bretli rcn  aud  hrotlires  tnow 
hrolliers). 

Children  and  chicken  inttst  alicai/s  be 
pickin\  Are  always  hungry  and  ready 
to  eat  food. 

To  count  your  chickens  ere  iheij  are 
hatched  (Hudibras).  To  anticipate  pro- 
fits before  they  come.  One  of  JEsop's 
fables  describes  a  market  woman  saying 
she  would  get  so  much  for  her  eggs,  with 
the  money  she  would  buy  a  goose  ;  the 
goose  in  time  would  bring  her  so  much, 
"with  which  she  would  buy  a  cow,  aud  so 
on ;  but  in  her  excitement  she  kicked 
over  her  basket,  and  all  her  eggs  were 
broken.  The  Latins  said,  "Don't  sing 
your  song  of  triumph  before  you  have 
won  the  victory  "  {ante  victo'riain  can' ere 
triumphnut).  "Don't  crow  till  you  are 
out  of  the  wood  "  has  a  similar  meaning. 
{See  page  36,  col.  2,  Alnaschar's 
Deeam.) 

Curses  like  chickens  come  home  to  roost. 
{Sec  under  Cueses.) 

Mother  Carey'' s  chickens.  {See  Mothee 
Caeey.) 

Slices  no  chicken.  Not  young.  The 
young  child  as  well  as  the  young  fowl  is 
called  a  chicken  or  chick. 


Chicken 


216 


Children 


Chicken  of  St.  Nicholas  {The).  So 
the  Piedmontese  call  the  ladybird,  or 
little  red  beetle  with  spots  of  black, 
called  by  the  Russians  "  God's  little 
cow,"  aud  by  the  Germans,  "  God's 
little  horse  "  sent  as  a  messenger  of  love. 

Chicken-hearted.  Cowardly.  Young 
fowls  are  remarkably  timid,  and  run  to 
the  wing  of  the  heu  upon  the  slightest 
cause  of  alarm. 

Chien.  Entre  chien  et  hup.  Dusk, 
between  daylight  and  lamp-Ught ;  owl- 
light. 

"The  best  time  to  talk  nf  difficult  things  is 
entre  chien  et  loitp.  ;is  the  Wuenisey  folk  say."— 
Mm.  Edwardes:  A  Uiiiuii  (iiii,  chap.  xlvi. 

Chien  de  Jean  de  Nivelle  (Lc), 
•which  never  came  when  it  was  called. 
Jean  de  Nivelle  was  the  eldest  son  of 
Jean  II.  de  Montmorency,  born  about 
1423.  He  espoused  the  cause  of  the 
Duke  of  Burgundy  against  the  orders 
of  Louis  XI.  and  the  wish  of  his  father, 
who  disinherited  him.  Bouillet  says : 
Jean  de  Nivelle  etait  devenu  en  France 
a  cause  du  refus  qu'il  fit  de  repondre  a 
I'appel  de  son  roi  uu  objet  de  haiue  et 
de  mepris ;  et  le  peuple  lui  doima  le 
suruom  injurieux  de  chien,  de  la  le  pro- 
verbe. 

"  O'est  le  cliien  do  Jean  de  Nivelle 
Qui  s'eii  fuit  toujours  quand  on  I'appelle. 

The  Italians  call  this  Arlotto's  dog. 

Child,  at  one  time,  meant  a  female 
infant,  aud  was  the  correlative  of  boy. 

"  JU'rcy  on  's  !  A  liarue,  a  very  pretty  harne. 
A  boy  or  a  child,  1  wonder  ?"— Shakespeare: 
Winter's  Tale,  iii.  3. 

Child  of  God  {A),  in  the  Anglican 
and  Catholic  Church,  means  one  wlio 
has  been  bajitised ;  others  .consider  the 
phrase  to  mean  one  converted  by  special 
grace  and  adopted  into  the  holy  family 
of  God's  Church. 

"  In  my  baptism,  wherein  I  was  made  a  nioraber 
of  Christ,  the  chihl  of  (iod,  and  an  inheritor  of 
the  Kinydoiii  (jf  llt':i\en."— Church  Catechism. 

Child  of  the  Cord.  So  the  de- 
fendant was  called  by  the  judges  of  the 
vehmgericht  in  Westphalia,  because 
everyone  condemned  by  the  tribunal 
was  hanged  to  the  branch  of  a  tree. 

Childe,  as  C7iilde  Harold,  ChUdo  of 
JEUcchilde  Waters,  Childe  Roland,  Childe 
Tristram,  Childe  Arthur,  etc.  In  all 
these  cases  the  word  "Childe"  is  a 
title  of  honour,  like  the  infante  and 
infanta  of  Spain.  In  the  times  of 
chivalry,  the  noble  youths  who  were 
candidates  for  knighthood  were,  during 
their  time  of  probation,  called  iiifaus, 
valets,  d((iiioi/sels,  and  bachcUers,     ChiWe 


or  infant  was  the  term  given  only  to  the 
most  noble.  (In  Anglo-Saxon,  the  same 
word  {cuihf'\  means  both  a  child  aud  a 
knight.) 

Childe  Harold.  A  man  sated  of  the 
world,  who  roams  from  place  to  jjlace  to 
flee  from  himself.  The  "  childe  "  is,  iu 
fact,  Lord  Byron  himself,  who  was  only 
twenty-one  when  he  began,  and  twenty- 
eight  when  he  finished  the  jjoem.  In 
canto  i.  (1809),  he  visited  Portugal  and 
Spain  ;  iu  canto  ii.  (1810),  Turkey  in 
Europe  ;  in  canto  iii.  (ISlC)),  Belgium 
and  Switzerland  ;  aud  in  canto  iv.  (1817), 
Venice,  liome,  aud  Florence. 

Children.  Tlie  children  in  the  irood. 
The  master  of  Wayland  Hall,  Norfolk, 
on  his  deathbed  left  a  little  son, 
three  years  old,  and  a  still  younger 
daughter,  named  Jane,  to  the  care  of 
his  wife's  brother.  The  boy  was  to 
have  £300  a  j^ear  when  he  came  of 
age,  and  the  girl  £500  as  a  wedding 
portion ;  but,  ii  the  children  died  pre- 
viously, the  luicle  was  to  inherit.  After 
twelve  mouths  had  elapsed,  the  uncle 
hired  two  rtiffians  to  murder  the  two 
babes.  As  they  went  along  one  of  the 
ruffians  relented,  and  killed;  his  fellow  ; 
then,  i^utting  down  the  children  iu 
a  wood,  left  them.  The  poor  babes 
gathered  blackberries  to  allay  their 
hunger,  but  died  during  the  night,  and 
"Robin  Redbreast"  covered  them  over 
with  strawberry  leaves.  All  things  went 
ill  with  the  cruel  uncle ;  his  sons  died, 
his  barns  were  fired,  his  cattle  died, 
and  he  himself  perished  in  gaol.  After 
the  lapse  of  seven  years,  the  rufiian  was 
taken  up  for  highway  robbery,  and  con- 
fessed the  whole  affair.  {Fere// :  Mc- 
lie/Kcs,  iii.  ii.  18.) 

"  Then  sad  he  sung  '  The  Children  in  tlie  Wood.' 
(Ah  !    barbarous    uncle,   stained   with    infant 

Idood  !) 
How  Idackberries  they  plucked  in  deserts  wild, 
And  fearless  at  the  glittering  falchion  smiled  j 
Their  little  corpse  the  robin-redbreast  found, 
And  strewed  with  pious  bill  the  leaves  arouiul." 
Gay :  Pastoral  VI. 

Children.  Three  hundred  and  sixty- 
five  at  a  birth.  It  is  said  that  the 
Countess  of  Henneberg  accused  a  beggar 
of  adultery  because  she  carried  twins, 
whereupon  the  beggar  prayed  that  the 
countess  might  carry  as  many  children 
as  there  are  days  in  the  year.  Accord- 
ing to  the  legend,  this  happened  on 
Good  Friday,  1276.  All  the  males  were 
named  John,  and  all  the  females  Eliza- 
beth. The  countess  was  forty-two  at 
the  time. 

Children  as  plural  of  "child."  {See 
under  Chicken,  j^iage  245,  col.  2.) 


Chilenos 


247 


Chintz 


Chile'nos.    People  of  Chili. 

Chilian.  A  native  of  Chili,  pertain- 
ing to  Chili,  etc. 

Chil'iasts  [///'/r/.v^v].  Another  word 
for  Milli'H'ariaiis :  those  who  believe 
that  Clnist  will  return  to  this  earth  and 
reign  a  thousand  years  in  the  midst  of  His 
saints.     (Greek,  chUias,  a  thousand.) 

Chillingham  Cattle.  A  breed  of 
cattle  {hos  i<(iin<s)  in  the  park  of  the  Earl 
of  Tankerville,  supposed  to  be  the  last 
remnant  of  the  wild  oxen  of  Britain. 

Chillon'.  Prisoner  of  ChiUon.  Fran- 
<;ois  de  Bonnivard,  of  Lunes.  Lord 
Byron  makes  him  one  of  six  brothers, 
all  of  whom  suffered  as  martyrs.  The 
father  and  two  sons  died  on  the  battle- 
field ;  one  was  burnt  at  the  stake  ;  three 
were  incarcerated  in  the  dungeon  of 
Chillon,  near  the  lake  of  Gene'va — of 
these,  two  died,  and  Frant^ois  was  set 
at  liberty  by  "the  Beamais. "  Byron 
says  that  Bonnivard  has  left  traces  of 
his  footsteps  in  the  pavement  of  the 
dungeon.  He  was  put  iu  prison  for 
"republican  principles"  by  the  Duke- 
Bishop  of  Savoj%     (1496-1570.) 

Chilminar'  and  Balbec.  Two  cities 
built  by  the  Genii,  acting  under  the 
orders  of  Jan  ben  Jan,  who  governed 
the  world  long  before  the  time  of  Adam. 
Chilminar,  or  the  "Forty  Pillars,"  is 
Persep'olis.  These  two  cities  were  built 
as  lurking  places  for  the  Genii  to  hide  in. 

Chiltern  Hundreds  [The).  There 
are  three,  viz.  Stoke,  Desborough,  and 
Bonenham  (or  Buniham).  At  one  time 
the  Chiltern  Hills,  between  Bedford  and 
Hertford,  etc.,  were  covered  with  beech 
trees  which  foiTued  shelter  for  robbers  ; 
so  a  steward  was  appointed  by  the 
Crown  to  put  down  these  marauders 
and  protect  the  inhabitants  of  the 
neighbourhood  from  depredations.  The 
necessity  of  such  watch  and  ward  has 
long  since  ceased,  but  the  office  remains; 
and,  since  1750,  when  a  Member  of  Par- 
liament wishes  to  vacate  his  seat,  one 
way  of  doing  so  is  by  applying  for  the 
stewardship  of  the  three  Chiltern  Hun- 
dreds. The  application  being  granted, 
the  Member  is  advanced  to  an  ojficc  loidrr 
the  C'roirn,  and  his  seat  in  the  House 
is  ex  officio  vacated.  Immediately  the 
Member  has  effected  his  object,  he 
resigns  his  office  again.  The  gift  is  in 
the  hands  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Ex- 
chequer. It  was  refused  to  a  Member 
for  Reading  in  1842. 

?  The  Stewardships  used  for  a  similar 
purpose  were  Old  Sarum  (in  Sussex), 


East  Hendred  (in  Berks),  the  Manor  of 
Poynings  (in  Sussex),  Hempholwic  (in 
Yorkshu-e),  all  of  which  have  dropped 
out  of  use.  The  Stewardship  of  the 
Manor  of  Northstead  (in  Yorks)  survives 
(1894),  but  the  Escheatorships  of  Munster 
and  Ulster  were  abolished  in  1838. 

The  London  Gazette  iif  August  4, 18'.B,  anuounced 
th.-it  tlie  "Chancellor  of  the  Excheijuer  has  aii- 
pointed  William  Henry  Grenfell  to  be  steward 
and  hailiffi  i>f  the  Chiltern  Hundreds  iu  the  rooni 
cif  J(diu  Mcirrdgh,  resijrne<l." 

Chimaera  [kime'ra].  An  illusory 
fancy,  a  wild,  incongruous  scheme,  a 
castle  in  the  air.  Homer  describes  the 
chimaera  as  a  monster  with  a  goat's 
body,  a  lion's  head,  and  a  dragon's  tail. 
It  was  born  iu  Lycia,  and  was  slain  by 
Bellerophon.  (Greek,  chiiiiaira,  a  she- 
goat.) 

Chime  in  with  {To).  To  be  in  har- 
mony with,  to  accord  with,  to  fall  in 
with.     The  allusion  is  to  chiming  bells. 

"This  chinieil  in  with  Mr.  Dmnliey's  own  hope 
and  belief."— K/cA'fHs:  Vumbey  aiid  Son. 

Chimney  Money  or  Hearth 
iiioiiei/.  A  Crown  duty  for  every  fire- 
place in  a  house  (14  Car.  ii.  c.  2).  Re- 
pealed by  1  Will.  &  Mary,  i.  c.  2. 

Chimneypot  Hat  (A).  The  ordin- 
ary cylindrical  l)lack-silk  hat,  generally 
worn  as  more  dressy  than  the  soft  felt 
hats  or  stiff  billj'cocks.  Called  by  the 
French  cheniiiiee. 

Chinese  Gordon.  General  Gordon 
(afterwards  killed  at  Khartoum),  who 
succeeded  in  putting  down  the  Taeping 
rebellion,  which  broke  out  in  1851  and 
lasted  fifteen  years.  The  rebels  had 
ravaged  sixteen  of  the  eighteen  pro- 
vinces, and  had  destroyed  six  hundred 
cities.  In  1861  Ward  raised  an  anny 
called  the  "Ever  Victorious,"  which 
was  placed  under  General  Gordon,  and 
in  1864  the  rebellion  was  stamped  out. 

Chingachgook.  The  Indian  chief 
in  Fenimore  Cooper's  Laat  of  the 
Mohicans,  Fathfnder,  Deer.slai/er,  and 
Pioneer.  Called  in  French  Lc  Gros 
Serpent. 

Chink  or  Jink.  Money ;  so  called 
because  it  chinks  or  jingles  iu  the  purse. 
Thus,  if  a  person  is  asked  if  he  has 
money,  he  rattles  that  which  he  has  in 
his  purse  or  pocket. 

"  Have  chinks  in  thy  purse."    Ttisscr. 

Chintz  means  spotted.  The  cotton 
goods  originally  manufactured  in  the 
East.  (Persian,  chinz,  spotted,  stained  ; 
Hindu,  eliint,  plur.  chints ;  Sanscrit, 
chitra,  variegated.) 


CMOS 


248 


Chloe 


Chios  (Ki'os).  The  man  of  C'liios. 
Homer,  who  lived  at  Chios,  near  the 
^Ege'au  Sea.  Seven  cities  claim  to  be 
his  place  of  birth — • 

'   "Smyrna,   Rliodos,  CoIOplion,  Salaiuis,  Cliios, 
Ai'gdS,  Atbe'iue." — Vtirro. 

Chip  or  Chips. 

A  (-(irpottcr  ix  Inwicn  hij  his  chips.  A 
man  is  known  to  be  a  carpenter  by  the 
cliips  in  his  workshop,  so  the  profession 
or  taste  of  other  men  may  be  known  by 
their  manners  or  mode  of  speech.  There 
is  a  broadcloth  slang  as  well  as  a  cordu- 
roy slang  ;  a  military,  naval,  school,  and 
university  slang. 

■  iSiich   carpenters,  such  chips.     As   the 
workman,  so  his  work  will  be. 

Jirotlicr  Chip.  Properly  a  brother 
carpenter,  but  in  its  extended  meaning 
apiilied  to  anyone  of  the  same  vocation 
as  ourselves.  {Es  nostra  fascioi ;  Petro- 
nius.) 

•.•  Tlie  ship's  rarjienter  is,  at  sea,  Cdiiiiiiniily 
addressetl  as  "  cliips." 

Saratogct,  chips.  Potatoes  sliced  thin 
wliile  raw,  and  fried  crisp.  Sometimes 
called  chiijped  potatoes. 

Chip  of  the  Old  Block  {A).  A  son 
or  child  of  the  same  stuif  as  his  father. 
The  chif)  is  the  same  wood  as  the  block. 
Burke  ai^plied  the  words  to  W.  Pitt. 

Chi'ron  [/I'i'row].  The  centaur  who 
taught  Achilles  music,  medicine,  and 
hunting.  Jujiiter  placed  him  in  heaven 
among  the  stars,  where  he  is  called 
Sagitta'rius  {the  ^ircher). 

Chi'ron,  according  to  Dante,  has  watch 
over  the  lake  of  boiling  blood,  in  the 
seventh  circle  of  liell. 

Chirping  Cup  or  Glass.  A  meny- 
making  glass  or  cup  of  liqupr.  Wine 
th.it  miiketli  glad  the  heart  of  man,  or 
makes  him  siug  for  joy. 

"  A  cliirping  cup  is  my  matin  song. 
And  my  vesper  bell  is  my  bowl  -,  Ding  dons  ! " 
A  Friar  of  Orders  Greij. 

Chisel.  /  chiselled  him  means,  I 
cheated  him,  or  cut  him  out  of  some- 
thing. 

Chitty-faced.  Baby-faced,  lean.  A 
chit  is  a  child  or  sprout.  Both  chit  and 
chiitji-faccd  are  terms  of  contempt. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  citli,  a  twig,  etc.) 

Chivalry. 

The  paladins  of  Charlemagne  were  all 
scattered  by  the  battle  of  Roncesvalliis. 

The  champions  of  Did'erick  were  all 
assassinated  at  the  instigation  of  Chriem- 
hil'da,  the  bride  of  Ezzel,  King  of  the 
Huns. 

The  Knights  of  the  Round  Table  were 


all    extirpated    by  the  fatal   battle  of 
Camlan. 

Chirrt/ri/.  The  six  following  clauses 
may  be  considered  almost  as  axioms  of 
the  Arthu'rian  romances  : — 

(1)  There  was  no  braver  or  more  noble 
king  than  Arthur. 

(2)  No  fairer  or  more  faithless  wife 
than  Guiu'iver. 

(3)  No  truer  pair  of  lovers  than  Tristan 
and  Iseidt  (or  Tristram  and  Ysolde). 

(4)  No  knight  more  faithful  than  Sir 
Kaye. 

(."))  None  so  brave  and  amorous  as  Sir 
Laun'celot. 

(6)  None  so  virtuous  as  Sir  Gal'ahad. 

The  ^//oieer  of  CJiivnlry.  William. 
Douglas,  Lord  of  Liddesdale.  (Four- 
teenth century.) 

Chivy.  A  chase  in  the  school  game 
of  "Prisoners'  Base  "  or  " Prison  Bars." 
Probably  a  gipsy  word.  One  boy  sets  a 
chivy,  by  leaving  his  bar,  when  one 
of  the  oj)posite  side  chases  him,  and  if 
he  succeeds  in  touching  him  before  he 
reaches  "  home,"  the  boy  touched  be- 
comes a  prisoner. 

Chivy  or  Chivvy.  Slang  for  the  face. 
Much  slang  is  due  to  rliymo,  and  when 
the  rhyme  is  a  compound  word  the 
rhyming  part  is  sometimes  drojiped  and 
the  other  jjart  remains.  Tlius  Chivy 
[Chevy]-chase  rhymes  with  "face,"  by 
dropping  "chase"  chiv)/  remains,  and 
becomes  the  accepted  slang  word.  Simi- 
larly, daisies  =  boots,  thus:  daisy-roots 
will  rhyme  with  "  boots,"  and  by  drop- 
ping "  roots,"  the  rhyme,  daisy  remains. 
By  the  same  process  sky  is  the  slang  for 
jiocket,  the  compound  word  which  gave 
birth  to  it  being  "sky-rocket."  "  Christ- 
mas "  the  slang  for  a  railway  guard,  as 
"  Ask  the  Christmas,"  is,  of  course,  from 
the  rhyme  "  Christmas-card  "  ;  and 
"raspberry"  the  slang  for  heart,  is 
from  the  rhyme  "  raspberry-tart." 

"  Tben  came  a  Icnoclv  at  the  Rory  i>'  More  [door], 
Which  made  my  rasplierry  heat." 

Other  examples  given  under  theif 
proper  heads. 

Chlo'e  (AVoVf).  The  shepherdess  be- 
loved by  Daphnis  in  the  pastoral  romance 
of  Lougus,  entitled  Baphnts  and  Chloe. 
St.  Pierre's  tale  of  Paul  and  Virginia  is 
founded  on  the  exquisite  romance  of 
Longus. 

','  Prior  calls  Mrs.  CentHvre  "  Cloe." 

Chloe,  in  Pope's  3foral  Essays  (epist. 
ii.),  Lady  Suffolk,  mistress  of  George  II. 
"  Content  to  dwell  in  decencies  for 
ever." 


Choereas 


249 


Cliouaiis 


Chce'reas  [ICe'reas],  The  lover  of 
Callii'i'lioL',  ill  Cha'ritoii's  Greek  ro- 
mance, called  the  Lores  of  Clicevcas  and 
CaUir'rhoe.     (Eighth  century.) 

Choice  Spirit  {A)  or  "Choice  Spirit 
of  the  Age,"  a  gallant  of  the  clay,  being 
one  who  delights  to  exaggerate  the 
whims  of  fashion. 

llohsoii's  Choice.    {See  Hobson.) 

Choke.  May  this  piece  of  bread  ehol;e 
w/'',  (/'  wliat  I  saij  is  i/'d  true.  In  ancient 
times  a  jjerson  accused  of  robbery  had  a 
piece  of  barley  bread,  on  which  the  mass 
had  been  said,  given  him  to  swallow.  He 
jiut  it  in  his  mouth  uttering  the  words 
given  above,  and  if  he  could  swallow  it 
without  being  choked,  he  was  pro- 
nounced innocent.  Tradition  ascribes 
tlie  death  of  tlie  Earl  Godwin  to  choking 
with  a  piece  of  bread,  after  this  solemn 
appeal.     {See  Coesned.) 

Choke-pear.  Au  argument  to  whicli 
there  is  no  answer.  Bobbers  in  Hol- 
land at  one  time  made  use  of  a  piece  of 
iron  in  the  shape  of  a  pear,  which  they 
forced  into  the  mouth  of  their  victim. 
On  turning  a  key,  a  number  of  springs 
thrust  forth  points  of  iron  in  all  direc- 
tions, so  that  the  instrument  of  torture 
could  never  be  taken  out  except  by 
means  of  the  key. 

Choker  {A).  A  neckcloth.  A  irhife 
choker  is  a  white  neckclotli  or  neck- 
tie, worn  in  full  dress,  and  generally 
by  waiters  and  clergymen.  Of  course, 
the  verb  to  choke  has  supplied  the  word. 

Chop  and  Chops. 

C/iop  and  ehaiiijc  {To).  To  barter  by 
the  rule  of  thumb.  Boys  "chop"  one 
article  for  another  (Anglo-Saxon,  eip-an, 
or  cedp-ian,  to  sell  or  barter). 

A  mution  chop  is  from  the  French 
coiip-er,  to  cut  off.     A  piece  chopped  off. 

The  wind  chops  about.  Shifts  from 
point  to  point  suddenly.  This  is  eip-a», 
to  barter  or  change  hands.  {See  abore  To 
Chop  and  Change.) 

'•  How  the  Hnuse  of  Lords  and  House  of  Coiii- 
liioiis  clioi'lied  round."— T/(ncA('i-(U/ ;  Tlic  Four 
Uuiirgcs  Uieorge  I.). 

Chop-fallen.  Crest-fallen:  down  in 
the  mouth.     {See  next  eolamn,  Chops.) 

Chop-House  {A).  An  eating-house 
where  chops  and  steaks  are  served. 

"  Joliu  Bull  .  .  .  would  set  up  a  clioii-liouse  at 
tlie  very  gates  of  paradise."— irtis/jfwffton  Irvimj: 
vol.  i.  chap.  \\.  p.  (il.  j 

*.*  A  Chinese  custom-house  is  called  a 
Chop-house  (Hindu,  chap,  a  stamji). 

Chop  Logic  {To).  To  bandy -words ; 
to  altercate.     Lord  Bacon  says,    "Let 


not  the  council  chop  with  the  judge." 
{See  Chop  and  Change.) 

"  How  now,  how  now,  «hop  lopric  !    What  is  this  ? 
'Proud,'  and  '1  thank  jou,'  and  'I  thank  you 

not,' 
And  yt't  'not  proud.'" 

I^lialccspeurc:  Romeo  and  Juliet,  iii.  5. 

Chops.      The  face,  is   allied  to  the 

Latin  enpat,  the  head  ;  Greek  Ke'^aA-o?, 
AngloSaxon  eeaj'el,  the  snout ;  in  the 
plural,  the  cheeks.  We  talk  of  a  "  pig's 
chap. ' ' 

V  The  Latin  cap-at  gives  us  the  word 
chap,  a  fellow  or  man;  and  its  alliance 
with  cliop  gives  us  the  term  "  chapped  " 
hands,  etc.  Everyone  knows  the  answer 
given  to  the  girl  who  complained  of 
eliapped  lips:  "My  dear,  you  should 
not  lot  the  chajjs  come  near  j'our  lips." 

l)oien  in  the  chops — i.e.  down  in  the 
mouth  ;  in  a  melancholy  state  ;  with  the 
mouth  drawn  down.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
cea/f,  the  snout  or  jaw ;  Icelandic, 
kie/ptr.) 

Chops  of  the  Channel.  The  short 
broken  motion  of  the  waves,  experienced 
in  crossing  the  English  Channel ;  also 
the  place  where  such  motion  occurs. 

Chop'ine  (2  syl.),  or  Chopin.  Aliigh- 
heoled  shoe.  The  Venetian  ladies  used 
to  wear  "  high-heeled  shoes  like  stilts." 
Hamlet  says  of  the  actress,  "  Your  lady- 
ship is  nearer  to  heaven,  than  when  I 
saw  you  last,  by  the  altitude  of  a 
chopine  "  (act  ii.  s.  2).  (Spanish^  cJiapln, 
a  high  cork  shoe.) 

Choreu'tSB  \_Koru'le(^.  A  sect  of 
heretics,  who,  among  other  errors,  per- 
sisted in  keei^ing  the  Sunday  a  fast. 

Choriambic  Metre.  Horace  gives 
us  a  great  variety,  but  the  main  feature 
in  all  is  the  prevalence  of  the  choriam- 

bus  ( — v^v ).     Specimen  translations 

of  two  of  these  metres  are  subjoined : 

(1)  Horace,  1  Udes,  viii. 


Lydia,  why  on  Stanley, 
By  the  great  gods,  tell  nie,  I  pray,  ruinous  love 
you  rentre  ? 
Once  he  was  strong  and  manly. 
Now  never  seen,  patient  of  toil,  Mars'  sunnv  eanu> 
to  enter.  E.  C.  B. 

(2)  The  other  specimen  is  I  Odes,  xii. 


When  you,  with  an  appro\ing  smile, 
Praise  those  delicate  anus,  Lydy,  of  Telcphus, 

Ah  me  !  how  you  stir  lu)  niy  bile  ! 
Hoart-sick,  that  f(U- a  ijoy  you  should  forsake  nie 
thus.  E.C.B. 

Chouans  (2  syl.).  French  insurgents 
of  the  Eoyalist  party  during  tlie  Revo- 
lution.    Jean  Cottereau  was  their  leader, 


Choughs 


250 


Christian 


nicknamed  chouan  (owl),  because  he 
was  accustomed  to  warn  his  companions 
of  danger  by  imitating  the  screech  of 
an  owl.  Cottereau  was  followed  by- 
George  Cadoudal. 

V  It  is  an  error  to  suppose  Chouan  to 
be  a  pioper  nanie. 

Choughs  Protected.  {See  page  137, 
col.  1,  BiiiDS,  etc.) 

Chouse  (1  syL).  To  cheat  out  of 
something.  Giii'ord  says  the  interpreter 
of  the  Turkish  embassy  in  England  is 
called  c/iiaiis,  and  in  1609  this  chiaus 
contrived  to  defraud  his  government  of 
£4,000,  an  enormous  sum  at  that  i^eriod. 
From  the  notoriety  of  the  swindle  the 
word  chiuHs  or  to  chotific  was  adopted. 

"  He  is  no  chiniis." 
lien  Jonquil  :  AlvlniiiiM,  i.  1  lUUo). 

Chriem-hil'da  or  Chriem-hild.     A 

woman  of  unrivalled  beauty,  sister  of 
Guuther,  and  beloved  by  Siegfried,  the 
two  chief  heroes  of  the  Nibelungenlied. 
Siegfried  gives  her  a  talisman  taken 
from  Gunther's  lady-love,  and  Guuther, 
in  a  tit  of  jealousy,  induces  Hagen  to 
murder  his  brother-in-law.  Chriemhild 
in  revenge  marries  Ezzel,  King  of  the 
Huns ;  invites  the  Nibelungs  to  the 
weddiug  feast ;  and  there  they  are  all 
put  to  the  sword,  except  Hagen  and 
Guuther,  who  are  taken  prisoners,  and 
put  to  death  by  the  bride.    {Sec  Keiem- 

HILD.) 

Chriss-cross  Row  {row  to  rhyme 
with  loir).  The  alphabet  in  a  horn- 
book, which  had  a  cross  at  the  beginning 
and  end. 

"  Plnldsopliy  is  nil  the  go, 

And  science  <iuite  tlie  fasbimi; 
Onr  grandanis  leai-nt  the  Uliriss-cross  Row, 
L— d,  how  their  daugliters  dasli  on." 

Anon,  in  the  Eaglet. 

Chrisom  or  Chrism  signifies  pro- 
perly "the  white  cloth  set  by  the 
minister  at  bai^tisra  on  the  head  of  ihe 
newly  anointed  with  chrism" — i.e.  a  com- 
position of  oil  and  balm.  In  the  Form 
of  Private  Baptism  is  this  direction : 
"  Then  the  minister  shall  jiut  the  white 
vesture,  commonly  called  the  chrisome, 
upon  the  child."  The  child  thus  bap- 
tised is  called  a  chrisom  or  chrisom 
child.  If  it  dies  within  the  month,  it  is 
slirouded  in  the  vesture  ;  and  hence,  in 
the  bills  of  mortality,  even  to  the  year 
1726,  infants  that  died  within  the  month 
were  termed  chrisoms.  (The  cloth  is  so 
called  because  it  was  anointed.  Greek, 
chrisma,  verb  elirio,  to  anoint.) 

"  A'  made  a  finer  end  and  went  awav  an  it  had 
lieen  any  chrisom  child."— i^'/ia/.tJ.smirc;  Hairy  r., 
!!•  3, 


Christabel  [Kris'tabel].  The  heroine 
of  Coleridge's  fragmentary  2ioem  of  that 
name. 

Christabelle  [A'ri.'t'tKhe/].  Daughter 
of  a  "  bonnie  king"  in  Ireland.  She 
fell  in  love  with  Sir  Cauline  {q.i'.). 

Christendom  [Jiris'-rn-dxiii]  gener- 
ally means  all  Christian  countries ;  but 
Shakespeare  uses  it  for  baptimii,  or 
"  Christian  citizenship."  Thus,  in  Ki//(/ 
John,  the  j'oung  jirince  saj's: — 

"  Uy  my  christi'iidoni  ! 
So  I  were  oul.  nf  prison  and  kept  slieop, 
1  slmiiid  he  merry  as  tjio  da\'  is  long." 

Act  iy.  sr.  1. 

Christian  [ch  =  k].  The  hero  of 
John  Buuyan's  allegory  called  T/ie  I'il- 
t/ruii''>>  I'royrexs,  He  flees  from  the 
"City  of  Destruction,"  and  journeys  to 
the  "  Celestial  City."  He  starts  with  a 
heavy  burden  on  his  back,  but  it  falls  off 
when  he  stands  at  the  foot  of  the  cross. 

Chrisiidti.  A  follower  of  Christ.  So 
called  first  at  Antioch  (Acts  xi.  26). 

Most  Christian  Ihctor.  John  Charlier 
deGersou  (136)3- U29). 

Most  Christian  Kiix/.  The  stylo  of 
the  King  of  France.     (1469.) 

Pepin  le  Bref  was  so  styled  by  Pope 
Stephen  III.  (714-768). 

Charles  le  Chauve  was  so  styled  by 
the  council  of  Savonnicres  (823,  810-877). 

Louis  XI.  was  so  styled  by  Pope  Paul 
II.  (1423,  1461-1483). 

Since  which  time  (1469)  it  was  univer- 
sally adopted  in  the  French  monarchy. 
"  And  thou,  O  Gaul,  witli  gaudy  trojihies  plumed, 
'  ilost  Christian  king.'    Alas!  in  vain  assumed. 
Camuens  :  L(is/rt((,  book  vii. 

FoKiider  of  Christian  Eloquenec.  Louis 
Bordaloue,  the  French  preacher  (1632- 
1704). 

Christian  Traditions,  connected 
with  natural  objects. 

1.  Birds,  Beasts,  and  Fishes. 

The  Ass  :    Cross  on  the  back.     {See 

Ass.) 
Biintinf/.     {See  Yellow-hammer.) 

*.*  The  Crossbill  has  nothing  to 
do  with  the  Christian  cross ; 
the  bird  is  so  called,  because  its 
mandibles  cross  each  other. 

Haddock :  The  finger-marks  on 
the  Haddock  and  John  Dory. 
{See  Haddock,  etc.) 

lehtldis,  a  fish.     {Sec  ICHTHUS.) 

Tike's  Head  {q.v.). 

Fir/eons  or  iJores :  The  Bussians 
are  averse  to  pigeons  as  a  food, 
because  the  Holy  Ghost  assumed 
the  form  of  a  dove  at  the 
baptism  of  Jesus.  {Sporting 
Magazine,  January,  182.'!,  p.  307.) 


Christiana 


251 


Christoplaer 


Robin  Redbreast :  The  red  breast. 

{See  EoBiN.) 
Stork  :  The  cry  of  the  Stork.   {See 

Stork.  ) 
Swallow  :  The  cry  of  the  Swallow. 

{See  Swallow.) 
Swine  :  The  holes  in  the  forefeet 

of  Swiue.     (SceViQS.) 

2.  The  Vefjetable  World. 

The  Arum,  Aspen,  Calvary- clover, 
Cedar  {see  also  Cross),  Dwarf- elder, 
Judas  -  tree.  Passion  -  tlower,  Pui-ple 
Orchis,  Red  Anemoue,  Rood  Selkeu, 
Sfjotted  Persicaria,  Thistle. 

{See  these  articles,  and  Flowers  with 
Traditions  of  Christ.) 

3.  The  Number  Thirteen.  {See  Thir- 
teen.) 

Christian'a  [eh  =  k].  The  wife 
of  Christian,  who  started  with  her  chil- 
dren and  Mercy  from  the  "  City  of 
Destruction "  long  after  her  husband. 
She  was  jjlaced  under  the  guidance  of 
Mr.  Great-Heart,  and  went,  therefore, 
in  "silver  slippers"  along  the  thorny 
road  {BuiiyaH  :  The  Pilgrim'' s  Progress, 
part  ii.). 

Christinas  {Krist'mas).  "  Christ- 
mas comes  but  once  a  year."  (Thomas 
Tusser.) 

Christmas.  Slang  for  a  railway- 
guard.     Explained  under  Chivy  {q.v.). 

Christinas  Box.  A  small  gratuity 
given  to  servants,  etc.,  on  Boxing  Day 
(the  day  after  Christmas  Day).  In  the 
early  days  of  Christianity  boxes  were 
placed  in  churches  for  promiscuous  cha- 
rities, and  opened  on  Christmas  Day. 
The  contents  were  distributed  next  day 
by  the  priests,  and  called  the  "  dole  of 
the  Christmas  box,"  or  the  "box  money." 
It  was  customary  for  heads  of  houses  to 
give  small  sums  of  money  to  their  sub- 
ordinates "  to  put  into  the  box  "  before 
mass  on  Christmas  Day. 

Somewhat  later,  apprentices  carried  a 
box  round  to  their  master's  customers 
for  small  gratuities.  The  custom  since 
1836  has  been  gradually  dying  out. 

"  (lladly  tbe  lioy,  with  Christmas-box  in  hand, 
Throughout  the  town  his  devious  route  pursues, 
And  of  his  master's  customers  implores 
The  yearly  mite." 

Ch  ristmas. 

Christmas  Carols  are  in  connnemo- 
ration  of  the  song  of  the  angels  to  the 
shepherds  at  the  nativity.  Durand  tells 
us  that  the  bishops  with  the  clergy  used 
to  sing  carols  and  play  games  on  Christ- 
mas Day.  (Welsh,  carol,  a  love-song  ; 
Italian,  carola,  etc.) 


Christmas  Day.  Transfeixed  from 
the  6th  of  January  to  the  2oth  of  De- 
cember by  Julius  I.  (337-3.52). 

(Jld  Christmas  Dag.  January  6th. 
When  Gregory  XIII.  reformed  the 
Calendar  in  1852,  he  omitted  ten  days; 
but  when  the  New  Style  was  adopted  in 
England,  in  1582,  it  was  necessary  to 
cut  olf  eleven  days,  which  drove  back 
January  6th  to  December  25th  of  the 
previous  year.  So  what  we  now  call 
January  6th  iu  the  Old  Style  would  be 
Christmas  Day,  or  December  2oth. 

Christmas  Decorations.  The  great 
feast  of  Saturn  was  held  in  December, 
when  the  people  decorated  the  temi^les 
with  such  green  things  as  they  could 
find.  The  Christian  custom  is  the  same 
transferred  to  Him  who  was  born  in 
Bethlehem  on  Christmas  Daj'.  The 
holly  or  holy-tree  is  called  Christ's- 
thorn  in  Germany  and  Scandinavia, 
from  its  use  iu  chiu'ch  decorations  and 
its  putting  forth  its  berries  about  Christ- 
mas time.  The  early  Christians  gave  an 
emblematic  turn  to  the  custom,  referring 
to  the  "  righteous  branch,"  and  justify- 
ing the  custom  from  Isaiah  Ix.  13 — 
' '  The  glory  of  Lebanon  shall  come  unto 
thee  ;  tlie  tir-tree,  the  puie-tree,  and  the 
box  together,  to  beautify  the  place  of 
my  sanctuary." 

Christmas  Trees   and    Maypoles 

are  remnants  of  the  Scandinavian  Ash, 
called  YggdrasU',  the  Tree  of  Time, 
whose  roots  penetrate  to  heaven,  Nilf- 
heiin  and  Ginnungagap  (the  gap  of 
gafis).  In  Ginnungagap  the  frost  giants 
dwell,  in  Niffheim  is  the  great  serpent 
Nidhogg  ;  and  under  this  root  is  Hel- 
heim,  the  home  of  the  dead. 

"  We  are  told  that  the  ancient  Egyp- 
tians, at  the  Winter  Solstice,  used  a 
palm  branch  containing  twelve  leaves  or 
shoots  to  symbolise  the  "  completion  of 
the  year."  The  modern  custom  comes 
from  Germany. 

Chris'tolytes  \Kris'-to-lites\.  A  sect 
of  Christians  that  appeared  in  the  sixth 
century.  They  maintained  that  wheii 
Christ  descended  into  hell,  He  left  His 
soul  and  body  there,  and  rose  only  with 
His  heavenly  natiu'e. 

Christopher  (-SY.).  The  giant  carried 
a  child  over  a  brook,  and  said,  "  Chylde, 
thou  hast  put  me  in  grete  peryll.  I 
might  here  no  greater  burden."  To 
which  the  child  answered,  "  Marvel 
thou  nothing,  for  thou  hast  borne  all  the 
world  upon  thee,  and  its  sins  likewise." 
This  is  an  allegory :  Christopher  means 


Chronicle 


252  Church 


Christ-bearer  ;  the  child  was  Christ,  and 
the  river  was  the  river  of  death. 

Chronicle  Small  Beer  {To).  To 
note  down  events  of  no  imiiortance 
whatsoever. 

"  He  w;is  a  witrlit,  if  e\  er  svicli  wisrlit  were  .  .  . 
To  suckle  fiKils  and  clininicle  siiiall  liper." 

Shal:,ai'caie  :  Ulliello,  ii.  1. 

Chron'icon    ex    Chron'icis    is    by 

Florence,  a  monk  of  Worcester,  the 
earliest  of  our  English  chroniclers.  It 
begins  from  Creation,  and  goes  down  to 
lll'J,  in  which  j'ear  the  author  died  ; 
but  it  was  continued  by  another  hand  to 
1141.  Printed  in  4to  at  London,  1;J92. 
Its  chief  value  consists  in  its  serving  as 
a  key  to  the  Saxon  chronicle. 

Chronon-lioton-tliologos  [ch  =  k]. 

A  burlesque  pomposo  in  Henry  Carey's 
farce,  so  called.  Anyone  who  delivers 
an  inflated  address. 

"  AUlilioroiitepboscopliovnio,  wliere  loft  ynu 
Clirouonhutiiiulioiosos  ?"—//.  Curey. 

Chrysalis  [ch  =  k].  The  form 
which  caterpillars  assume  before  they 
are  converted  into  butterflies  or  moths. 
The  chrysalis  is  also  called  an  aure'lia, 
from  the  Latin  anridii,  gold.  The 
external  covering  of  some  species  has  a 
metallic,  golden  hue,  but  others  are 
green,  red,  black,  etc.  (Greek,  chrusos, 
gold.) 

*,*  The  plural  is  either  chrijsaViscs  or 
c/ij-i/s'alich'n  (4  sj'l.). 

Chrysa'or  [ch  =  k].  Sir  Artegal's 
sword,  "  that  all  other  swords  excelled." 
{Spciiscr :  Faerie  Queciic.)     (See  Swoed.) 

Chrysippus.  Xisi  Ch rifsippusfidssct, 
PoriicHs  noil  esse/.  Chrysippus  of  Soli 
was  a  disciple  of  Zeno  the  Stoic,  and 
Cleanthes  his  successor.  He  -did  for  the 
Stoics  what  St.  Paul  did  for  Christianity 
—  that  is,  he  explained  the  system, 
showed  by  plausible  reasoning  its  truth, 
and  how  it  was  based  on  a  solid  founda- 
tion. Stoicism  was  founded  bj^  Zeno, 
it  is  true ;  but  if  Chrysippus  had  not 
advocated  it,  the  system  would  never 
have  taken  root. 

Chubb  (Thomas).  A  deistical  wi-iter 
who  wrote  ui^on  miracles  in  the  first  half 
of  the  eighteenth  century. 

'■  He  lieanl  uf  Blmuit,  of  Mandeville.and  Cliulib." 
CrabOe:  Boroutili. 

Chuck  Full.  Probably  a  corruption 
of  clidch  full  or  cJiokc  J'ull — i.e.  full 
enough  to  choke  one. 

"  AyrwashoUlins  some  .crand  market  ;  streets 
:mii1  inn  hail  heen  cliokefull  during  the  sunny 
\-.'<\vc'?,."—Car\\ilc,inFroiide'sJant,  ^Y.  Carlyle,  \o\. 
I.  letter  I.Nxxvii.  p.  275. 


Chukwa.  The  tortoise  at  the  South 
Pole  on  which  the  earth  is  said  to  rest. 

Chum.  A  crony,  a  familiar  com- 
panion, properly  a  bedfellow  ;  a  corrup- 
tion either  of  chamber-mate  or  comrade. 

"  To  have  a  good  cliuui  is  one  of  tlie  pleasantest 
p.irt.s  of  a  voyage."— A'o/-(»(('#:  Itcirhaiit  Vessels, 
iliap.  xii.  p.  liy. 

Chum  in  with  {To).  To  bo  on 
friendly  terms  with.     {See  above.) 

Church.  The  etymology  of  this  word 
is  generally  assumed  to  be  from  the 
Greek,  Kurion  oikos  (house  of  God)  ; 
but  this  is  most  improbable,  as  the  word 
existed  in  all  the  Celtic  dialects  long 
before  the  introduction  of  Greek.  No 
doubt  the. word  means  "a  circle."  The 
places  of  worship  among  the  German 
and  Celtic  nations  were  always  circular. 
(Welsh,  r//jr/(  ;  Yvesich,  cirque  ;  Scotch, 
kirk;  Greek,  kirk-os,  etc.)  Compare 
Anglo-Saxon  circe,  a  church,  vrith  circol, 
a  circle. 

High,  Zoic,  and  Broad  Chxrch.  Dr. 
South  says,  "  The  High  Cliurch  are 
those  who  think  higldy  of  the  Church 
and  lowly  of  themselves ;  the  Low 
Church,  those  who  tliink  lowly  of  the 
Church  and  highly  of  themselves " 
(this  may  be  epigrammatic,  but  the 
latter  half  is  not  true).  Broad  Church 
are  those  who  think  the  Church  is  broad 
enough  for  all  religious  jiarties,  and 
their  own  views  of  religion  are  chiefly 
of  a  moral  nature,  their  doctrinal  views 
being  so  rounded  and  elastic  that  they 
can  come  into  collision  with  no  one. 

*,*  By  the  "High  Church"  now  are 
meant  those  who  follow  the  "Oxford 
Movement "  ;  the  "  Low  Church  "  party 
call  themselves  the  "Evangelical" 
Church  party. 

The  Church  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
Monnons. 

The  Anr/licnn  Church.  That  branch 
of  the  Protestant  Church  which,  at  the 
Reformation,  was  adopted  in  England. 
It  disavowed  the  authority  of  the  Pope, 
and  rejected  certain  dogmas  and  rules  of 
the  Roman  Church. 

V  Since  1532  generally  called  the 
"Established  Church,"  because  estab- 
lished by  Act  of  Parliament. 

The  Catholic  Church.  The  Western 
Church  called  itself  so  when  it  separated 
from  the  Eastern  Chm'ch.  It  is  also 
called  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  to 
distinguish  it  from  the  Anglican  Church 
or  Anglican  Catholic  Cliurch,  a  branch 
of  the  Westera  Church. 

The  Established  Church.  The  State 
Church,  which,  in  England,  is  Episco- 
palian   and    in    Scotland  Presbyterian. 


Church-goer 


253 


Cicerone 


Before  the  Refoi-mation  it  was,  in  both 
countries,  "  Catholic  :  "  before  the  intro- 
duction of  Christianity  it  was  Pagan, 
and  before  that  Druidism.  In  Turkey 
it  is  Mohammedanism  ;  in  Eussia  tlie 
Greek  Chui-ch ;  in  China,  India,  etc., 
other  systems  of  religion. 

To  (JO  into  the  Church.  To  take  holy 
orders,  or  become  an  "  ordained"  clergy- 
man. 

Churcli-goer  (-i).  One  who  regularly 
attends  the  parish  church. 

Church  Invisible  {Thi^.  Those  who 
are  known  to  God  alone  as  His  sons  and 
daughters  by  adoption  and  gi-ace.  {Hee 
Church  Visible.) 

'■  Oh,  iii:iy  I  join  the  choir  iuvisiliU'." 

Church  Militant.  The  Church  on 
earth  means  the  whole  body  of  believers, 
who  are  said  to  be  "  waging  the  war  of 
faith"  against  "the  world,  the  flesh,  and 
the  devil."  It  is  therefore  militant,  or 
in  warfare.  {Sec  Church  Triumphant.) 

Church  Porch  {TJu^  was  used  in 
ancient  times  for  settling  money  trans- 
actions, pajdng  dowries,  rents,  and  pur- 
chases of  estates.  Consequently,  it  was 
furnished  with  benches  on  both  sides. 
Hence,  Lord  Stourton  sent  to  invite  the 
Hartgills  to  meet  him  in  the  jjorch  of 
Kilmington  church  to  receive  the  £2,000 
awarded  them  by  the  Star  Chamber. 
(Lord  de  Sos  :  Totcer  of  London.) 

Church  Triumphant  (The).  Those 
who  are  dead  and  gone  to  their  rest. 
Having  fought  the  hglit  and  triumjihed, 
they  belong  to  the  Church  triumphant 
in  heaven.     (See  Church  Militant.) 

Church  Visible  (Thc^.  All  osten- 
sible Claistians  ;  all  who  profess  to  be 
Christians  ;  all  who  have  been  baptised 
and  admitted  into  Church  Communion. 
(.SVtf  Church  Invisible.) 

Churched.    Baptized. 

To  church  a  tcoinaii  is  to  read  the 
appointed  service  when  a  woman  comes 
to  church  to  return  thanks  to  God  for 
her  "safe  deliverance"  and  restored 
health. 

Churchwarden  (A).  A  long  clay 
pipe,  such  as  chui'chwardens  used  to 
smoke  some  half  a  century  ago  when 
they  met  together  in  the  parish  tavern, 
after  they  had  made  up  their  accounts 
in  the  vestry,  or  been  elected  to  office  at 
the  Easter  meeting. 

"Thirty  years  have  enaljled  tliese  [briar-root 
pipes]  to  destroy  short  clays,  ruin  meerscbaunis, 
and  even  do  much  mischief  to  the  veneraMe 
'  churchwarden.'  "— jVotes  and  Queries,  April  L'jth, 
1885,  p.  323. 


Churchyard  Cough  (A).  A  con- 
sumijtive  cougli  indicating  the  near 
ajiproach  of  death. 

Chuz'zlewit  (JLirfiu).  The  hero  of 
Dickens's  novel  so  called.  Jonas  Chuz- 
zlewit  is  a  type  of  mean  tj'ranny  and 
sordid  greed. 

Chyndo'nax.  A  chief  Druid,  whose 
tomb,  with  a  Greek  inscription,  was  dis- 
covered near  Dijon  in  1.598. 

Ci-devant  (French).  Former,  of 
times  gone  by.  As  Ci-dcrcint  yorernor—^ 
i.e.  once  a  governor,  but  no  longer  so. 
Ci-devant  philosophers  means  philoso- 
phers of  foiiner  da3's. 

"  Tlie  apiiellation  of  mistress  put  her  in  mindof 
lier  ci-devant  ahitrailship.  "— J<(h<?  Purler:  Tliad- 
ik-iin  nf  Jl'iosdu',  chap.  xxi. 

Cic'ero.  So  called  from  the  Latin, 
cicer  (a  wart  or  vetch).  Plutarch  says 
"  a  flat  excrescence  on  the  tip  of  his  nose 
gave  him  this  name."  His  real  name 
was  (Tullius)  Tully. 

La  Bouchc  de  Cieeron.  Philipije  Pot, 
prime  minister  of  Louis  XI.  (l-i28- 
1494.) 

Tlie  Cicero  of  France.  Jean  Baptiste 
Massillon  (1G63-1742.) 

The  Cicero  of  Germany.  Johann  III., 
elector  of  Brandenburg.     (1455-1499.) 

The  Cicero  of  the  British  Senate. 
George  Canning  (1770-1827.) 

The  British  Cicero.  WiUiam  Pitt,  Earl 
of  Chatham  (1708-17/8.) 

The  Christian  Cicero.  Lucius  Coelius 
Lactantius,  a  Christian  father,  who  died 
33tj. 

The  German  Cicero.  Johann  Sturm, 
printer  and  scholar.     (1507-1589.) 

Cicerone  (4  syl.).  A  guide  to  point 
out  objects  of  interest  to  strangers.  So 
called  in  the  same  way  as  Paul  was 
called  by  the  men  of  Lystra  "Mercu'- 
rius,  because  he  was  the  chief  speaker" 
(Acts  xiv.  12).  Cicero  was  the  speaker 
of  speakers  at  Rome ;  and  certainly,  in  a 
party  of  sight-seers,  the  guide  is  "  the 
chief  speaker."  It  is  no  compliment  to 
the  great  orator  to  call  the  glib  patterer 
of  a  show-place  a  Cicero  ;  but  we  must 
not  throw  stones  at  our  Italian  neigh- 
bours, as  we  have  conferred  similar 
honour  on  our  great  epic  poet  in  chang- 
ing "Grub Street"  into  "Milton Street." 

V  Pronounce  chich-e-ro'ny. 

"  Every  clib  and  lo<[uacious  hirelin;?  who  shows 
strangers  about  tlieir  pleasure-galleries,  palaces, 
and  ruins  is  called  [in  Italy]  a  cicerone  or  a 
Cicero."— rre)ic7i ;  On  the  Study  of  M'ords,  lecture 
iii.  p.  88. 

V  In  England,  generally  called  "a 
guide." 


Cicisbeo 


254 


Cintei* 


Cicisbe'o  [che-chiz-hee'-o].  Atlauffler 
about  women ;  the  professed  gallant  of 
a  married  woman.  Also  the  knot  of 
silk  or  ribbon  which  is  attached  to  fans, 
walking-sticks,  umbrellas,  etc.  Cicis- 
heisiii,  the  practice  of  dangling  about 
women. 

Cicle'nius  or  C'ljUc'iiiHfi.  Mercury. 
So  called  from  mount  Cylle'ne,  in  Pelo- 
ponne'sus,  where  he  was  boni. 

Cicuta.  In  Latin  clriita  means  the 
length  of  a  reed  up  to  the  knot,  such  as 
the  interuodes  made  into  a  Pan-pipe. 
Hence  Virgil  {Eel.  ii.  86)  describes  a 
Pan-pipe  as  '■^  septem  conipacta  cicutis 
Ji fit II hi.'''  It  is  called  Cow-bane,  because 
cows  not  imfrequently  eat  it,  but  are 
killed  by  it.  It  is  one  of  the  most  poi- 
sonous of  plants,  and  some  think  it  made 
the  fatal  draught  given  to  Socrates. 

"Sicut  cicuta  homiiii  veneuum  est,  sic  cicutae 
\\n\im."—I'linii,  xiv.  7. 

"  Qiue  iiotenml  iiuquaiu  satis  ex inirgare  cicuta?." 
lluruce :  '1  Hpiat.  ii.M. 

Cid.  Arabic  for  lord.  Don  Rodeii'go 
LajTiez,  Ruy  Diaz  (sou  of  Diaz),  Count 
of  Bivar'.  He  was  called  "  mio  cirl  el 
campeador,''''  my  lord  the  champion  (1025- 
1099).     Corruption  of  Said. 

The  Clfl's  horse.  Babie'ca.  (3  or  4 
syl.).     (iSVr  House. ) 

IVie  Cid's  -iicnrd.  Cola'da.  The  sword 
taken  by  the  Cid  Roderi'go  from  King 
Bucarwas  called  Tizo'na.     (See  Swoed.) 

The  Portuf/iicse  Cid.  Nunez  Alva'rez 
Perei'ra,  general  diplomatist.  (1360- 
H31.) 

Cid  Hamet  Benengeli.  The  sup- 
posititious author  of  Don  Quixote's  Ad- 
reiifiire.i. 

Cigogne  (Frenc)i).  A  stork.  Co)ife 
de  let  ei;/of/>ie.  An  old  wife's  tale ;  silly 
tittle-tattle.  "  On  eonte  dex  ehoses  iiier- 
veiUciises  de  la  cigogne "  (wonderful 
stories  are  told  of  the  stork).  This,  no 
doubt,  refers  to  the  numerous  Swedish 
legends  of  the  stork,  one  of  which  is  that 
its  very  name  is  derived  from  a  stork 
flying  round  the  cross  of  Christ,  crying, 
Styrka!  Sti/rka !  (strengthen,  strengthen, 
or  bear  up),  and  as  the  stork  has  no 
voice  at  all,  the  legend  certainly  is  a 
"  Conte  de  la  cigogne,''  or  old  wife's 
fable. 

"  J'approliende  (iu'dm  ne  croye  que  tout  ce  que 
j'ai  rapiiorte  jusqu'a  present  ne  passe  pcuir  des 
contes  de  la  cigogne,  ou  de  ma  mere  I'oie."— i« 
Roman  Bourgeois,  1713. 

Cil'laros.     (See  Hoese.) 

Cimmerian  Bos'phorus.  The  strait 
of  Kaffa. 


Cimmerian  Darkness.  Homer 
(possibly  from  some  story  as  to  the 
Arctic  inght)  sujiposes  tlie  Cimmerianus 
to  dwell  in  a  land  "  beyond  the  ocean- 
stream,"  where  the  sun  never  shone. 
(Odgs.,  xi.  14.) 

"  Tm  dark  Ciuinierian  desert  ever  dwell." 

union :  VAIhgro. 

Cincho'na  or  Quinine.  So  nan)ed 
from  the  wife  of  the  Conte  del  Chimhon, 
viceroy  of  Peru,  whence  tlic  bark  was 
first  sent  to  Europe  in  1640.  Linnams 
erroneously  named  it  Cinchona  for  Chiu- 
chona.     (Sec  Peruvl^n  Baek.) 

Cincinna'tus.the  Roman,  wn'  '  ugh- 
ing  his  field,  when  he  was  sai^..  „  as 
Dictator.  After  ho  had  conquered  the 
Volsci  and  delivered  his  country  from 
danger,  he  laid  down  his  office  and  re- 
turned to  his  jjlough. 

"  .\nd  Cincinnatus,  awful  fmni  the  plongli." 
Thotnuon :  Winter,  r>V2. 

The  Cineinnatiis  of  the  Americans. 
George  Washington  (1732-1799). 

Cinderella  [little  cinder  girl].  Hero- 
ine of  a  fairy  tale.  She  is  the  drudge  of 
the  house,  dirt}'  with  housework,  while 
her  elder  sisters  go  to  fine  balls.  At 
length  a  fairy  enables  her  to  go  to  the 
prince's  ball ;  the  prince  falls  in  love  with 
her,  and  .she  is  discovered  by  means  of  a 
glass  slipper  which  she  drojjs,  and  which 
will  fit  no  foot  but  her  own. 

The  glass  slipper  is  a  mistranslation  of 
pantoiij^e  en  lair  (a  fur  slipper),  not  en 
rerre.     (H.  C.  Tcrraiill :  Contes  de  lees.) 

Cinque   Cento.    An  ei)ithet  applied 
to   art    between    1500-1600;    called    in 
France    lienaissanee,    and    in    England 
Elizabethan.     It  was  the  i-evival  of  the 
classical   or    antique,   but    is    generally 
luulerstood  as  a  derogatory  term,  imjjly- 
ing  debased  or  inferior  art.     The  great 
schools   of  art   closed   with    IJOO.     Th** 
"immortal   five"   gi'cat  i^ainters    wer- 
all  born  in  the  previous   century :    viz. 
Leonardo  da  Vinci,  born  1452 ;  Michel 
AngSlo,    1474;    Titian,    1477;    RapT- 
1480 ;     and    Correggio,    1494.       ( 
Cento  is  the  Italian  for  500,  omitt' 
thousand  z=.  mi  I  cinque  cento. 

Cinque  Ports  ( The).    Origins        ne 
five     seaports :      Hastings,     San.     ..ch . 
Dover,   Romney,    and  Hythe.      Subse 
quently  Winchelsea  and  Rye  were  addec' 

Cinter  (A).  The  framing  erectet. 
between  ^Diers  to  hold  up  the  stones  of 
an  arch  during  the  making  thereof. 

"Certain  crude  beliefs  may  lie  needful  in  tbe 
infancy  of  a  nation,  but  ^vhen  tlje  arch  is  made, 
when  the  intelligence  is  fully  devehqied,  the 
cinter  is  thrown  down  and  truth  stands  unsup- 
ported."—£.  D.  Fawcctt. 


Cipher 


255 


City 


Cipher.    Dr.  Whewell's  riddle  is — 

"  A  headless  man  had  a  letter  (o)  to  write, 
He  whii  read  it  ^nnuiiht)  had  Inst  his  sight; 
The  (luiiili  repeated  it  {.uauytit)  word  for  word, 
Aud  deaf  was  the  man  who  listeued  aud  beard 

Cir'ce  (2  syl.).  A  sorceress.  She 
lived  ill  the  island  of  ^fea.  When 
Ulysses  landed  there,  Circii  turned  his 
companions  into  swine,  but  Ulysses 
resisted  this  metamorphose  by  virtue  of 
a  herb  called  iitoli/,  given  him  by  Mer- 
cury. 

"  Who  knows  not  ('irc<', 
The  daughter  of  the  rtnn,  whose  charmed  cup 
V'--A;er  tasted  lost  his  upri-rht  shape, 

^ .  .wnward  fell  iut<i  a  gnjvelling  swine  ?" 
Milton:  Co)uas,M — 53. 

Circle  of  Ulloa.  A  white  rainbow 
or  luminous  ring  sometimes  seen  in 
Alpine  regious  opposite  the  sun  in  foggy 
weatlier. 

Circuit.  The  journej'^  made  through 
tlie  counties  of  Great  Britain  by  the 
judges  twice  a  year.  There  are  six  cir- 
cuits in  England,  two  in  Wales,  and 
three  in  Scotland.  Those  in  England 
are  called  the  Home,  Norfolk,  Midland, 
Oxford,  Western,  and  Northern  ;  those 
of  Wales,  the  North  and  South  circuits  ; 
and  those  of  Scotland,  the  Southern, 
Western,  and  Northern. 

Circumbendibus  {A).  ITe  took  a 
rirciDiibcndibufi,  i.e.  he  went  round  about 
and  round  about  before  coming  to  the 
point. 

"  Partaking  of  what  scholars  call  the  periphras- 
tic and  amhagitory,  and  th.'  vulgar  the  circuni- 
bendihus."— ,S;r  W.  Scott:  Warerley,  chnxi.  xxiv. 

Circumcell  ians.  A  sect  of  the 
African  Don'atists  in  the  fourth  centui-y  ; 
so  called  because  they  rambled  from  town 
to  town  to  redress  grievances,  forgive 
debts,  manumit  slaves,  and  set  them- 
,  selves  up  as  the  oracles  of  right  and 
.  wrong.  (Latin,  circitin-cello,  to  beat 
about.) 

Circumcised   Brethren    (in   iriidi- 

'f  •v).      They  were    Prynne.    Bertie   or 

'■•pu,   and   Bastwick,  who   lost   their 

'ind  had  their  noses  slit  for   1am- 

jg  HenriettM  Maria  and  the  bishops. 

rcumlocu'tion  Office.  A  term 
ap^  ited  in  ridicule  to  our  public  offices, 
because  each  person  tries  to  shuffle  off 
every  act  to  some  one  else  ;  and  before 
anything  is  done  it  has  to  pass  through 
so  many  departments,  that  every  fly  is 
crushed  on  a  wheel.  The  term  was 
invented  by  Charles  Dickens,  and  ap- 
pears in  Little  I)orrit. 

Ciric-Sceat  or  Church    Scot.     An 

ecclesiastical  due,  paid  chiefly  in  com, 


in  the  reign  of  Canute,  etc.,  on  St.  Mar- 
tin's Day. 

Cist  (Greek  kinte,  Latin  cixta).  A 
chest  or  box.  Generally  used  as  a 
coffer  for  the  remains  of  the  dead.  The 
Greek  and  Roman  cist  was  a  decj)  cylin- 
drical basket  made  of  wickerwork,  like 
a  lady's  work-basket.  The  basket  into 
which  voters  cast  their  tablets  was  called 
a  "cist;  "  but  the  mystic  cist  used  in 
tlie  rites  of  Ceres  was  latterly  made  of 
bronze. 

Cist  Urn  (A).  An  urn  for  the  ashes 
of  those  buried  in  cists. 

Cister'cians.  A  religious  order,  so 
called  from  the  monastery  of  Cister'cium, 
near  Dijon,  in  France.  The  abbey  of 
Cistercium  or  Citeaux  was  founded  by 
Robert,  abbot  of  Moleme,  in  Burgundy, 
at  the  close  of  the  eleveutli  century. 

Citadel  (A),  in  fortification,  a  small 
strong  fort,  constructed  either  within 
the  place  fortitied,  or  on  the  most,  in- 
accessible spot  of  its  general  outline  ;  to 
give  refuge  for  the  garrison,  that  it  may 
prolong  the  defence  after  the  place  has 
fallen,  or  to  hold  out  for  the  best  terms 
of  capitulation.  Citadels  generally  com- 
mand the  interior  of  the  place,  and  are 
useful,  therefore,  for  overawing  a  popu- 
lation which  might  otherwise  strive  to 
shorten  a  siege.  (French,  citadclle ; 
Italian,  citadella,  a  little  city.) 

Cities. 

Citicfi  of  RrfiK/c.  Moses,  at  the  com- 
mand of  God,  set  apart  three  cities  on 
the  east  of  Jordan,  and  Joshua  added 
three  others  on  the  west,  whither  any 
person  might  flee  for  refuge  who  had 
killed  a  human  creature  inadvertently. 
The  three  on  the  cast  of  Jordan  were 
Bczer,  Ramoth,  and  Golan  ;  the  three  on 
the  west  were  Hebron,  Shcchem^  and 
Kedesh.  (Deut.  iv.  43;  Josh.  xx.  1-8.) 
The  Cities  of  the  Flaiii.  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah. 

"  Ahram  dwelled  in  the  land  of  Canaan,  ami  T.ot 
dwelled  in  tlie  cities  of  tlie  plain,  and  piiihed  his 
tent  toward  Sodom."— (ien.  .\iii.  1-'. 

The  Seren  Cities.  Egypt,  Jerusalem, 
Babylon,  Athens,  Rome,  Constantinople, 
and  either  London  for  commerce,  or 
Paris  for  beauty.     (See  Pentapolis.) 

Citizen  King  {The).  Louis  Phihppe 
of  France.  So  called  because  he  was 
elected  king  by  the  citizens  of  Paris. 
(Born  1773,  reigned  1830-18-48,  died 
1850.) 

City  {A),  strictly  speaking  is  a  large 
town  with  a  corporation  and  cathedral ; 


City  College 


256 


Civil  Service 


but  any  large  town  is  so  called  in 
ordinary  speecli.  In  the  Bible  it  means 
a  town  having  walls  and  gates. 

"  The  eldest  sou  of  the  first  man  [Cain]  Imilded 
a  city  (Ueu.  iv.  171— nut,  of  course,  a  Niueveb  or  a 
Babylon,  but  still  a  city."—Ilaicltnson:  Origin  I'f 
Nations,  iKU't  i.  ('bail.  i.  p.  10. 

City  CoUege  (TIw).  Newgate.  The 
wit  is  now  a  thing  of  the  past. 

City  of  Bells  {T/k^.     Strasburg. 

"lie  was  a  StraslmrKher,  and  in  tliat  city  of 
liells  had  been  a  medical  jiractitioner."— J/«i/«e 
Reid :  The  Scalp  Hunters,  chap.  xxv. 

City  of  David  {The).  Jerusalem. 
So  called  in  compliment  to  King  David. 
(2  Sam.  V.  7,  9.) 

City  of  Destruction  {Tht).  This 
world,  or  rather,  the  world  of  the  uu- 
couverted.  Bunyan  makes  Christian 
flee  from  the  "  City  of  Destruction  "  and 
journey  to  the  "Celestial  City,"  by 
which  he  allegorLses  the  "walk  of  a 
Christian  "  from  conversion  to  death. 

City  of  God  {The).  The  church  or 
whole  body  of  believers;  the  kingdom 
of  Jesus  Christ,  in  contradistinction  to 
the  city  of  the  World,  called  by  John 
Bunyan  the  City  of  Destruction.  The 
phrase  is  that  of  St.  Augustine  ;  one  of 
his  chief  works  bearing  that  title,  or 
rather  JJe  Civitatc  Bel. 

City  of  Lanterns  [Tlte).  A  suppo- 
sititious city  in  Lucian's  Vera  HisiorKC, 
situate  somewhere  beyond  the  zodiac. 
{See  Lanterx-Laxd.) 

City  of  Palaces  {The).  Agiippa,  in 
the  reign  of  Augustus,  converted  Rome 
from  "  a  city  of  brick  huts  to  one  of 
marble  palaces."     {Cf.  Sxetonius.) 

Calcutta  is  called  "the  "  City  of  Pal- 
aces." Modern  Paris  well  deserves  the 
compliment  of  being  so  called. 

City  of  Refuge  {Thi).  Medi'na,  in 
Arabia,  wliere  Mahomet  took  refuge 
when  driven  by  conspirators  from  Mecca. 
He  entered  the  city,  not  as  a  fugitive, 
but  in  triumph,  a.d.  622.  {See  under 
Cities  of  Refuge,  page  255.) 

City  of  St.  Michael  {The).  Dum- 
fries, of  whicli  city  St.  Michael  is  the 
patron  saint. 

City  of  Saints.  Montreal,  in  Can- 
ada, is  so  named  because  all  the  streets 
are  named  after  saints. 

"  Mr.  Geo.  Martin  .  .  .  said  lie  came  from  [Jlont- 
real]  a  city  of  saints,  where  all  the  streets  were 
named  after  saints."— 5ecn(rtr  Thought,  Septeni);er 
lOtll,  18'Jl. 

City  of  the  Great  King  {The)— i.e. 
Jerusalem.     (Psa.  xlviii.  2  ;  Matt.  v.  35.) 


City  of  the  Seven  Hills  {The). 
Rome,  built  on  seven  hills  ( I'rhx  stpta- 
col/ix).  The  hills  are  the  Aventine, 
Cajlian,  Capitoline,  Esquiline,  Palatine, 
Quirinal,  and  Viminal. 

The  AVEXTIXK  Hii.i.  was  f-'iven  to  the  people. 
It  was  deemed  unlucky,  because  here  Keniiis  was 
slain.  It  was  also  called  "Col lis  DianiB," from  the 
Temple  of  Diana  which  stood  there. 

TheCKi.i.w  111  I.I.  was  given  lo  C'a-li  us  Vi  henna, 
the  Tiisi-ni,  who  came  to  the  help  of  the  Uoiuans 
in  the  Sabine  w.ir. 

The  t'.vpiToi.iNK  HiLi.  or  "Mon.s  Tarpeius," 
also  called  "M(ms  Satunii,"  on  which  stood  the 
great  castle  or  capitol  of  Rome.  It  contained  the 
Temple  of  Jupiter  t'apitolinus. 

The  Esquiline  Hill  w-as  given  by  Augustus 
to  Mecaiias,  who  built  thereon  a  niagnillcent. 
mansion. 

The  r.\i..\TiXE  HiLi,  was  the  larp-est  of  the 
seven.  Here  RomuUis  held  his  court,  whence  the 
word  "  palace"  {jKildtiuni). 

TheyriuiXAL  Hii.l  was  where  the  Quires  or 
Cures  settled.  It  was  also  called  "Cabaliiius," 
from  two  11  arble  statues  of  a  horse,  one  of  which 
was  the  work  of  Phidias,  the  other  of  PraxitSles. 

The  ViMiNAi,  Hii.i.  was  so  called  fn.ni  the 
uuinber  of  osiers  ivimiries)  whicli  grewthere.  It 
contained  the  Temple  of  Jupiter  Viniii.alis. 

City  of  the  Sun  {The).  A  romance 
by  Camiiaiiella,  similar  to  the  liepiihitc 
of  Plato,  VtiijjKi  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  and 
Atlantis  of  Lord  Bacon  (1.')6S-1G3'J).' 

City  of  the  Violet  Crown.  Athens 
is  so  called  by  Aristophanes  (iu(rT«<()ai'os 
— see  I.'qiiites,  1323 and  1329;  and  Aihtir- 
nUius,  G37).  Macaulay  refers  to  Athens 
as  the  "violet-crowned  city."  Ion  (a 
violet)  was  a  representative  king  of 
Athens,  whose  four  sons  gave  names  to 
the  four  Athenian  classes  ;  and  Greece, 
in  Asia  Minor,  was  called  Ionia.  Alliens 
was  the  city  of  "  Ion  crowned  its  king" 
or  "of  the  Violet  crowned."  Similarly 
Paris  is  the  "city  of  lilies  " — i.e.  lleurs- 
de-hice  or  Louis-Howers. 

V  I  do  not  think  that  Athens  was 
called  iu(TTe(|)ai'os  from  "the  purple  luie 
which  Hymettus  assumed  in  the  evening 
sky." 

Civic  Crown.     {See  under  Ceowx.) 

Civil  List.  Kow  applied  to  expenses 
voted  annually  by  Parliament  to  jjay 
the  personal  expenses  of  the  Sovereign, 
the  household  expenses,  and  the  pensions 
awarded  by  Roj'al  bounty ;  but  before 
the  reign  of  "William  III.  it  embraced 
all  the  heads  of  public  expenditme,  ex- 
cept those  of  the  army  and  navy. 

Civil  Magistrate  {A).  A  civic  or 
municipal  magistrate,  as  distinguished 
from  ecclesiastical  authority. 

Civil  Service  Estimates  (TIk), 
C.S.E.  The  annual  Parliamentary  grant 
to  cover  the  expenses  of  tlie  diplomatic 
services,  the  post-office  and  telegrajjhs, 
the   grant  for  national  education,   the 


Civil  War 


257 


Claque 


collection  of  the  revenue,  and  other  ex- 
penses neither  pertaining  to  the  Sove- 
reign, the  army,  nor  the  navy. 

Civil  War.  "War  between  citizens 
(ciri/is).  In  English  histoiy  the  term  is 
applied  to  the  war  between  Charles  I. 
and  his  Parliament ;  but  the  War  of  the 
Red  and  White  Roses  was  a  civil  war. 
In  America  the  War  of  Secession  (1861- 
I860)  was  a  civil  war. 

Civis  Romanus  Sum.  This  single 
plea  sufficed  to  arrest  arbitrary  condem- 
nation, bonds,  and  scoui-ging.  Hence, 
when  the  centurion  commanded  Paul ' '  to 
be  examined  by  scourging,"  he  virtually 
pleaded  "Civis  Romanus  sum";  and 
asked,  "  Is  it  lawful  for  you  to  scourge  a 
Roman  citizen,  and  imcoiidfiinied  ?  "  (1) 
No  Roman  citizen  could  be  condemned 
unheard ;  (2)  by  the  Valerian  Law  he 
could  not  be  bound  ;  (3)  by  the  Sempro- 
nian  Law  it  was  forbidden  to  scoim/c  him, 
or  to  beat  him  with  rods.  {Sec  also 
Acts  xvi.  37,  etc.) 

Civitas  Solis.  A  political  and  philo- 
sophical romance  by  Thomas  Campanella 
(b3GS-1639),  born  at  Stillo,  or  Stilo,  in 
Italy.  This  romance  is  a  kind  of  Utopia, 
formed  on  the  model  of  Plato's  Itepublic. 
His  society  is  a  sort  of  convent-life 
established  on  the  principles  of  a  theo- 
cratic communism. 

Clabber  Napper's  Hole.  Near 
Gravesend ;  said  to  be  named  after  a  free- 
booter ;  but  moi"e  likely  the  Celtic  Cacr- 
hcr  Varhcr  (water-town  lower  camp). 

Clack  Dish.  A  dish  or  basin  with 
a  movable  lid.  Some  two  or  three 
centuries  ago  beggars  used  to  proclaim 
their  want  by  clacking  the  lid  of  a 
wooden  dish. 

"Canyon  think  I  get  my  living  by  a  bell  and 
clack-dish? 
"  .  .     .  Hinv's  that  ? 
"  Why,  begging,  sir."       Fumily  of  Love  (.1G08). 

Claft.  An  Egyptian  head-dress  with 
long  lappets  pendent  on  the  shoulders, 
as  in  the  statue  of  Am'euophis  III. 

Clak-ho-har'yah.  At  Fort  Van- 
couver the  medium  of  intercourse  is  a 
mixture  of  Canadian-French,  English, 
Indian,  and  Chinese.  An  Englishman 
goes  by  the  name  of  Kint-sliosh,  a  cor- 
ruption of  King  George ;  an  American 
is  called  Boston  ;  and  the  ordinary  salu- 
tation is  dak-Jto-harijah.  This  is  ex- 
plained by  the  fact  'that  the  Indians, 
frequently  hearing  a  trader  named 
Clark  addressed  by  his  companions, 
"Clark,  how  are  you?"  imagined  this 

17 


to  be  the  correct  English  form  of  saluta- 
rion.     {Taylor:   Words  and  Places.) 

Clam.    {See  Close  as  a  Clam.) 

Clan-na-Gael  {The).  An  Irish  Fenian 
organisation  founded  in  Pliiladelphia  in 
1870,  and  known  in  secret  as  the  "United 
Brotherhood  "  ;  its  avowed  object  being 
to  secure  "  the  complete  and  absolute 
independence  of  Ireland  from  Great 
Britain,  and  the  complete  severance  of 
all  pohtical  connection  between  the  two 
countries,  to  be  effected  by  unceasmg 
preparation  for  armed  insurrection  in 
Ireland."     {See  Dynamite  Satuedat.) 

•.•  In  1883  Alexander  Sullivan  was  elected  one 
of  the  three  heads  of  this  clul),  to  which  is  due 
the  dynamite  outrages  in  London  (Jannavy,  I88.i), 
and  the  design  to  murder  the  yiieeu's  ministers. 

Clap-trap.  Something  introduced  to 
win  applause  ;  something  really  worth- 
less, but  sure  to  take  with  the  ground- 
lings.    A  tr((p  to  catch  a2)plause. 

Clapper.  A  plank  bridge  over  a 
stream  ;  a  ferry-gate.  A  rooting-board 
is  called  a  clap-board. 

"  a  little  low  and  lonesome  shed, 
With  a  roof  of  clap-ljoards  overhead." 

Alice  Cary :  Settlers'  Christmas  Eve. 

Probably  a  corruption  of  clath-board, 
a  covering  board,  from  Anglo-Saxon, 
clafh,  a  covering,  whence  our  clothes. 

"  Boards  for  making  casks  are  also 
called  "clap-boards." 

Clapperclaw.  To  jangle  and  claw 
each  other  about.  (Dutch  and  German, 
klappeii,  to  strike,  clatter.) 

"Xow  they  are  claprer-clawing  one  another; 
I'll  go  look  on."— Shakespeare :  Troilusjind  Cres- 
sida,  V.  4. 

V  A  clapper-claw  is  a  back-scratcher. 

Clapper  -  dudgeons.  Abram-men 
{'/.v.).  The  clapper  is  the  tongue  of  a 
bell,  and  in  cant  language  the  human 
"tongue."  Dudgeon  is  a  slang  word 
for  a  beggar. 

Clapping   the   Prayer  Books,  or 

stamping  the  feet,  in  the  Roman  Cath- 
oUc  Chinch,  on  Good  Friday,  is  designed 
to  signify  the  abandonment  of  our 
Saviour  by  His  disciples.  This  is  done 
when  twelve  of  the  thirteen  burning 
candles  are  put  out.  The  noise  comes 
from  within  the  choir. 

Claque  ;  Claqueurs.  ApiJlause  by 
clapping  the  hands  ;  persons  paid  for 
doing  so.  M.  Sauton,  in  1820,  estab- 
lished in  Paris  an  office  to  ensure  the 
success  of  dramatic  pieces.  He  was  the 
first  to  organise  the  Parisian  claque.  The 
manager  sends  an  order  to  his  office  for 
any  number  of  claqueurs,  sometimes  for 


Claras 


258 


Clavie 


500,  or  even  more.  The  class  is  divided 
into  commissairs,  those  who  commit  the 
pieces  to  memory  and  are  noisy  in 
pointing  out  its  merits ;  rieurs,  v.lio 
laugh  at  the  puns  and  jokes  ;  pleurcurs, 
chiefly  women,  who  are  to  hold  their 
pocket-handkerchiefs  to  theii-  eyes  at 
the  moving  parts ;  chatouiUcurs,  who 
are  to  keep  the  audience  in  good  humour  ; 
and  liisseiirs,  who  are  to  cry  (bis)  encore. 
The  Romans  had  theii' Laudicoeui  {q.v.). 

Claras  (Stock  Exchange  term).  The 
Chatham,  London,  and  Dover  Railway 
Ordinary  Stock  (C.L.R.S.). 

Clare  {St.).  A  religious  order  of 
women,  the  second  that  St.  Francis  in- 
stituted. It  was  founded  in  1213,  and 
took  its  name  from  its  first  abbess. 

Clarenceux  King-of-Arms.    One  of 

the  two  provincial  lieralds,  with  juris- 
diction over  the  southern  j^rovinces.  The 
name  was  taken  in  honour  of  the  Duke 
of  Clarence,  third  son  of  Edward  III. 
The  herald  of  the  northern  provinces  is 
called  Norroy  King-of-Arms. 

V  Garter-Kiiig-of-Arms,  also  "Prin- 
cipal King-of-Arms,"  has  to  attend  on 
Knights  of  the  Garter,  and  arrange 
whatever  is  required  in  connection  with 
these  knights.  There  is  a  Bath  King- 
of-Arms,  not  a  member  of  the  college, 
to  attend  on  Knights  of  the  Bath. 

Clarendon.  T/ie  Constitutions  of 
Clarendon.  Laws  made  by  a  general 
coimcil  of  nobles  and  prelates,  held  at 
Clarendon,  in  Wiltshire,  in  1164,  to 
check  the  power  of  the  Church,  and 
restrain  the  j)rerogatives  of  ecclesiastics. 
These  famous  ordinances,  sixteen  in 
number,  define  the  limits  of  the  patron- 
age and  jurisdiction  of  the  Pope  in  these 
realms. 

Clarendon  Type.  The  black  letters 
which  head  these  articles  are  so  called. 

Claret.  The  wine  so  called  does  not 
receive  its  name  from  its  colour,  but  the 
colour  so  called  receives  its  name  from 
the  Avine.  The  word  means  clarified 
wine  {I'immi  clare'tiitn) .  What  we  call 
hippocras  was  called  dare' turn,  made  of 
wine  and  honey  clarified. 

Claret.  Blood.  To  broach  one^s  claret. 
To  give  one  a  bloody  nose ;  so  called 
from  the  claret  colour. 

Claret  Cup.  A  di-ink  made  of  claret, 
brandy,  lemon,  borage,  sugar,  ice,  and 
carbonated  water. 

Claret  Jug  {One's).  One's  nose. 
(&e  above,  Claeet.) 

To  tap  one's  claret  jug.    To  give  one  a 


bloody  nose.  "Taj)"  is  meant  for  a 
j)un — to  broach  and  to  knock. 

Classic  'Ra.ces{The).  The  five  chief 
horse-races  in  England,  viz.  the  2,000 
and  1,000  guinea  races  for  two-j'ear-olds, 
run  at  Newmarket,  the  Derby  for  fillies 
and  colts,  the  Oaks  for  fillies  only,  and 
the  St.  Leger. 

Classics.  The  best  authors.  The 
Romans  were  divided  by  Ser'vius  into 
six  classes.  Any  citizen  who  belonged 
to  the  highest  class  Avas  called  class'icus, 
all  the  rest  were  said  to  be  infra  classem. 
From  this  the  best  authors  were  termed 
class'ici  aucto'ri's  (classic  authors),  i.e. 
authors  of  the  best  or  first  class.  The 
high  esteem  in  which  Greek  and  Latin 
were  held  at  the  revival  of  letters  ob- 
tained for  these  authors  the  name  of 
classic,  emphatically ;  and  when  other 
first-rate  works  are  intended  some  dis- 
tinctive name  is  added,  as  the  English, 
French,  Spanish,  etc.,  classics. 

Claude  Lorraine  {i.e.  of  Lorraine). 
This  incorrect  form  is  generally  used  in 
English  for  the  name  of  Claude  le 
Lorrain,  or  Claude  Gelee,  the  French 
landscape  painter,  born  at  the  Chateau- 
de-Chamage,  in  Lorraine.    (1600-1G82.) 

The  Scotch  Claude.  Thomas  of  Dud- 
dingston  (near  Edinburgh) . 

Claus  {Santa).     {See  Santa  Claus.) 

Clause,  letter-clause,  a  close  letter, 
sealed  with  the  royal  signet  or  privy- 
seal  ;  in  opposition  to  letters-patent, 
which  are  left  open,  the  seal  being 
attached  simply  as  a  legal  form. 
("  Clause,"  Latin  clausus,  shut,  closed. 
"Patent,"  Latin ^;rtto;s,  open.) 

Clause  Rolls  {Eotuli  clausi).  Close 
Rolls.     {See  Close  Rolls.) 

"  Clause  Rolls  contain  all  such  matters  of  record 
as  were  conmiitted  to  close  writs.  These  Rolls  are 
jireserved  in  the  Tower."— Jacob:  Luir  Dicthmarii. 

Clavie.  Bmiiing  of  the  Clavie  on  New- 
year's  eve  (old  style)  in  the  village  of 
Burghead,  on  the  southern  shore  of  the 
Moray  Frith.  The  clavie  is  a  sort  of 
bonfire  made  of  casks  split  up.  One  of 
the  casks  is  split  into  two  parts  of  differ- 
ent sizes,  and  an  important  item  of  the 
ceremony  is  to  join  these  parts  together 
with  a  huge  nail  made  for  the  purpose. 
Whence  the  name  clavus  (Latin),  a  nail. 
Chambers,  who  in  his  Book  of  JJai/s  (vol. 
ii.  p.  789)  minutely  describes  the  cere- 
mony, suggests  that  it  is  a  relic  of  Druid 
worship,  but  it  seems  to  me  to  be  con- 
nected with  the  Roman  ceremony  ob- 
served on  the  13th  September,  and  called 
the  clavus  annalis.  The  two  divisions  of 
the  cask,  I  think,  symbolise  the  old  and 


Clavileno 


Cleai? 


the  new  year,  which  are  joined  together 
by  a  nail.  The  two  parts  are  unequal, 
because  the  part  of  the  new  year  joined 
on  to  the  old  is  very  small  in  comparison. 

Clavile'no.  The  -wooden  horse  on 
which  Don  Quixote  got  astride,  in  order 
to  disenchant  the  Infanta  Antonoma'sia 
and  her  husband,  who  were  shut  up  in 
the  tomb  of  Queen  Magun'cia,  of  Can- 
day'a.  It  was  the  very  liorse  on  which 
Peter  of  Provence  carried  off  the  fair 
Magalo'na  ;  it  was  constructed  by  Mer- 
lin, and  was  governed  by  a  wooden  pin 
in  the  forehead.  (The  word  means 
Wooden  Fee/.)  (Don  Quixote,  part  ii. 
book  3,  chaps.  4,  3.)     {See  Cambuscan.) 

Claw  means  the  foot  of  an  animal 
armed  with  claws  ;  a  hand.  To  elaw  is 
to  lay  one's  hands  vipon  things.  It  also 
means  to  tickle  with  the  hand  ;  hence  to 
please  or  flatter,  puff  or  praise.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  clawu,  a  claw,  withthe  verbf/rt^r- 
iVn;,  to  claw.) 

Claw  me  ami  I  tvUl  claw  ihee,  means, 
"  praise  me,  and  I  will  praise  you,"  or, 
scratch  my  back,  and  I  will  do  the  same 
for  you. 

~  "Laugli  wlien  I  am  merry,  ami  claw  no  man  iu 
Lis  humciiu'."— ■S'/(rtA'es/ic«;-(' ;  Much  Ado,  etc.,  .i.  3. 

Claw -backs.  Flatterers.  Bishop 
Jewel  speaks  of  "  the  Pope's  claw- 
backs.  ' '    {See  above,  and  Clappeeclaws.) 

Clay'more  or  Glai/more  (2  syl.)  is 
the  Celtic  glaif  (a  bent  sword),  Gaelic 
claidhcamh  (a  sword),  and  inor  (great). 
{See  MoRGLAY.) 

"  I've  told  thee  how  the  Soutlirous  fell 
Beneath  the  broad  claymore." 
Aijtoun :  Execution  of  Montrose,  stanza  2. 

Clean.    Free  from  blame  or  fault. 

"  Ye  are  clean,  but  not  all."— John  xiii.  10. 

Bill.  To  show  a  clean  hill  of  health. 
{Sec  page  135,  col.  1,  Bill  of  Health.) 

Breast.  To  make  a  clean  breast  or 
Make  a  clean  breast  of  it.  To  make  a 
full  and  unreserved  confession. 

Hands.  To  hare  clean  hands.  To  be 
quite  clear  of  some  stated  evil.  Hence 
"  clean-handed." 

To  keep  the  hands  clean.  Not  to  be 
involved  in  wrong-doing. 

Heart.     2h  have  a  clean    heart.    A 

righteous  spirit. 

"Create  in  me  a  clean  heart,  and  renew  a  right 
spirit  within  me."— Psalm  li.  10. 

Heels.  To  show  a  clean  pair  of  heels. 
To  make  one's  escape,  to  run  away. 
Here  ' '  clean  ' '  means  free  from  obstruc- 
tion. 

"  The  Maroons  were  runaway  slaves  who  had 
....  shown  their  tyrants  a  clean  pair  of  heels  " 


Life.  To  live  a  clean  life.  Blameless 
and  imdefiled. 

Tongue.  A  clean  tongue.  Not  abusive, 
not  profane,  not  foul. 

Clean  (To). 

Clean  away  I  Scrub  on,  go  on  clean- 
ing, etc. 

To  clean  down.  To  sweep  down,  to 
swill  down. 

To  clean  out.  To  purify,  to  make 
tidy.  Also,  to  win  another's  money  till 
his  pocket  is  quite  empty. 

To  clean  up.  To  wash  up,  to  put  in 
order. 

V  Clean,  xised  adverbially,  means  en- 
tirely, wholly;  as,  "you  have  grown 
clean  out  of  knowledge,"  i.e.  wholly  be- 
yond recognition. 

Clean     and     Unclean     Animals. 

Pythagoras  taught  the  doctrine  of  the 
transmigration  of  the  soul,  but  that  it 
aever  entered  into  those  animals  which 
it  is  lawful  to  eat.  Hence  those  animals 
which  were  lawful  food  for  man  were 
those  into  which  the  human  soul  never 
entered ;  but  those  into  which  the 
human  soul  entered  were  unclean  or 
Qot  fit  for  human  food.  This  notion 
existed  long  before  the  time  of  Pytha- 
goras, who  learnt  it  in  Egyjjt. 

*»•  In  the  Old  Testament,  those  animals 
which  chew  the  cud  and  part  the  hoof 
were  clean,  and  might  be  eaten.  Hares 
and  rabbits  could  not  be  eaten  because 
(although  they  chew  the  cud)  tliey  do  not 
part  the  hoof.  Pigs  and  camels  were  un- 
clean, because  (although  they  part  the 
hoof)  they  do  not  chew  the  cud.  Bii'ds  of 
prey  were  accounted  unclean.  Fish  with 
fins  and  scales  were  accounted  fit  food 
for  man.     (Lev.  xi.) 

Cleaned  Out.  Impoverished  of 
everything.  De  Quincey  says  that 
Richard  Bentley,  after  liis  lawsuit  with 
Dr.  Colbatch,  "must  have  been  pretty 
well  cleaned  out." 

Clear  (verb). 

Clear  awai/.     Remove. 

Clear  off!  Away  with  j'ou  I  Take 
away. 

Clear  out.  Empty  out,  make  tidy. 
{See  below,  Clear  out  for  Guam.) 

Clear  up.  Become  fine  after  rain  or 
cloudiness  ;  to  make  manifest ;  to  eluci- 
date what  was  obscure. 

To  clear  an  examination  paper.  To 
floor  it,  or  answer  every  question  set. 

To  clear  the  air.  To  remove  the 
clouds,  mists,  and  impurities. 

To  clear  the  dishes.  To  empty  them 
of  their  contents. 


Clear  the  Court 


260 


Clementina 


To  clear  the  room.  To  remove  from  it 
every  thing  or  iDerson  not  required. 

lo  char  the  table.  To  remove  what 
has  been  placed  on  it. 

Clear  the  Court.  Remove  all 
strangers,  or  persons  not  officially  con- 
cerned in  the  suit. 

Clear  the  Decks.  Prepare  for  action 
by  removing  everj'thing  not  required. 

*.*  Clear  used  adverbially  means 
wholly,  entirely;  as,  "He  is  gone  clear 
away,"  "  Clear  out  of  sight." 

Clear  (the  adjective). 

A  clear  head.  A  recejjtive  imder- 
standiug. 

A  clear stafciiiey.f.  A  straightforward 
and  uitelligible  statement. 

A  clear  atijle  [of  writing].  A  lucid 
method  of  expressing  one's  thoughts. 

Clear  as  Crystal.    Clear  as  Mud. 

{Sec  Similes.) 

Clear-coat.  A  mixture  of  size,  alum, 
and  whitening,  for  sizing  walls.  To 
cover  over  whatever  might  show  throvigh 
the  coat  of  colour  or  paper  to  be  put  on 
it,  also  to  make  them  stick  or  adhere 
more  firmlj-. 

Clear  Day  {A).  A  bright  day,  au 
entire  day,  as,  "  The  bonds  must  be  left 
three  clear  days  for  examination,"  to 
examine  them  before  the  interest  is  paid. 

Clear  Grit  {The).  The  real  thing, 
as  "champagne  is  ...  if  it  be  but  the 
clear  grit  "  (Anglo-Saxon,  (jri/t,  bolted 
flour). 

V  A  man  of  grit,  or  clear  gi-it,  is  one 
of  decision,  from  whom  all  doubt  or 
vacillation  has  been  bolted  out,  as  husks 
from  tine  flom\ 

Clear  out  for  Guam  {To).  The 
ship  is  bound  for  no  specific  place.  In 
the  height  of  the  gold  fever,  ships  were 
chartered  to  carrj^  passengers  to  Aus- 
tralia without  having  return  cargoes 
secured  for  them.  They  were,  there- 
fore, obliged  to  leave  Melbourne  in 
ballast,  and  to  sail  in  search  of  home- 
ward freights.  The  Custom  House 
regulations  requii-ed,  however,  that,  on 
clearing  outwards,  some  port  should  be 
named ;  and  it  became  the  habit  of 
captains  to  name  "Guam"  (a  small 
island  of  the  Ladrone  group)  as  tlie 
hj'pothetical  destination.  Hence,  "  to 
clear  out  for  Guam"  came  to  mean, 
clear  out  for  just  anywhere — we  are 
bound  for  whatever  'coast  we  may 
choose  to  venture  upon.  (See  Notes  and 
Queries,  Ajiril  18th,  1885,  p.  314.) 


Clear  Voice  {A).  A  voice  of  pure 
intonation,  neither  husky,  mouthy,  nor 

throaty. 

Cleared  out.  I  am  cju'ile  cleared  ont. 
I  have  sjient  all  my  money  ;  I  have  not 
a  fartliing  left.  In  French,  Je  sals 
A)i(/lt'.  {See  Frexcii  Leave.)  Cleared 
out  means,  mj'  purse  or  pocket  is  cleared 
out  of  money. 

Clearing  House.  A  building  in 
Lombard  Street,  set  apart,  since  ITT-'), 
for  interchanging  bankers'  checpies  and 
bills.  Each  bank  sends  to  it  daily  all 
the  bills  and  cheques  not  drawn  on  its 
own  firm ;  these  are  sorted  and  dis- 
tributed to  their  respective  houses,  and 
the  balance  is  settled  by  f  ran.sfer  tickets. 
The  origin  of  this  establishment  was  a 
post  at  the  corner  of  Birchin  Lane  and 
Lombard  Street,  where  banking  clerks 
met  and  exchanged  memoranda. 

Eailway  lines  have  also  then-  "  Clear- 
ing Houses"  for  settling  the  "tickets"' 
of  the  different  lines. 

A  "  clearing  banker  "  is  a  banker  who 
has  the  entree  of  the  clearing  house. 

"London  lias  liecnnie  the  clearins-lumse  if  the 
whole  world,  the  place  where  inteniatinnal  del)ts 
are  exchanged  against  each  other.  And  some- 
thing like  otKio  million  jiounds'-wortb  of  checks 
and  hills  pass  that  clearing  yearly."—^.  C.  reiry : 
Kleiuents  of  Political  Economy,  p.  303. 

Cleave.  Either  to  stick  to  or  to  part 
froM.  A  man  "shall  cleave  to  his  wife  " 
(Matt.  xix.  5).  As  one  that  "cleavtth 
wood"  (Psalm  cxli.  7).  The  former  is 
the  Anglo-Saxon  elif-aii,  to  stick  to, 
and  the  latter  is  cleoj'-an,  to  sjjlit. 

Cle'lia.  A  vain,  frivolous  female 
butterfly,  with  a  smattering  of  every- 
thing. In  youth  she  coqtietted ;  and, 
when  youth  was  passed,  tried  simclry 
wnys  of  earning  a  living,  but  always 
without  success.  It  is  a  character  in 
Crabbe's  Borough. 

Cle'lie.  A  character  in  Madam  Scu- 
di'ri's  romance  so  called.  This  novel 
is  a  t}-pe  of  the  buckram  formaUty  of 
Louis  XIY.  It  is  full  of  liigh-flown 
compliments,  theatrical  poses,  and  cut- 
and-dry  sentiments. 

Clement  {St.).  Patron  saint  of  tan- 
ners, being  himself  a  tanner.  His  sym- 
bol is  a  pot,  because  November  the  'Jord, 
St.  Clement's  Day,  is  the  day  on  which 
the  early  Danes  used  to  go  about  beg- 
ging for  ale. 

Clementina  [The  Lady).  In  love 
with  Sir  Charles  Grandison,  who  man-ies 
Harriet  Biron.  [Richardson:  Sir  Charles 
Grandison.) 


Clench. 


261 


Clerk 


Clench  and  Clinch.  To  clench  is  to 
grasp  firmly,  as,  "He  clenched  my  aiTn 
firmly,"  "He  clenched  his  nerves  bravely 
to  endure  the  pain."  (Anglo-Saxon, 
he-chncan,  to  hold  fast.) 

To  clinch  is  to  make  fast,  to  turn  the 
point  of  a  nail  in  order  to  make  it  fast. 
Hence,  to  clinch  an  arj^ument.  (Dutch, 
kliiiken,  to  rivet.  Whence  "clinker- 
built,"  said  of  a  ship  whose  planks 
overlap  each  other,  and  are  riveted  to- 
gether.) 

/  f/are  him  a  cJcnchcr  (should  be 
^'clincher  ").    I  nailed  him  fast. 

Cleom'brotos  (4  syl.).     A  philoso- 
pher who   so   admired   Plato's   Fhadon 
that  he  jumped  into  the  sea  in  order  to 
exchange  this  life  for  a  better.     He  was 
called  Aiubraeio'ta  {of  Ainhra'cia),  from 
the  place  of  his  birth  in  Epirus. 
'•  He  wbo  to  enJDy 
Plato's  elj-sium,  leaped  iutu  the  sea, 
Cleouibrotus." 

Milton:  Parndise  Lost,  iii.  -171-3. 

Cleon.  The  personification  of  gloiy 
in  Spenser's  Faerie  Quccnc. 

Cleopatra  was  introduced  to  Julius 
Caesar  by  ApoUodorus  in  a  bale  of  rich 
Syrian  rugs.  When  the  bale  was  un- 
bound, there  was  discovered  the  fairest 
and  wittiest  girl  of  all  the  earth,  and 
Csesar  became  her  captive  slave. 

Cleopa'tra  and  her  PearL  It  is 
said  that  Cleopatra  made  a  banquet  for 
Antony,  the  costliness  of  which  excited 
his  astonishment ;  and,  when  Antony 
expressed  his  sm-prise,  Cleopatra  took 
a  pearl  ear-drop,  which  she  dissolved  in 
a  strong  acid,  and  drank  to  the  health 
of  the  Roman  triumvir,  sajing,  "  My 
draught  to  Antony  shall  far  exceed  it." 
There  are  two  difficulties  in  this  anec- 
dote— the  first  is,  that  vinegar  would  not 
dissolve  a  pearl ;  and  the  next  is,  that 
any  stronger  acid  would  be  wholly  unfit 
to  drink.  Probabl}'  the  solution  is  this  : 
the  pearl  was  sold  to  some  merchant, 
whose  name  was  synonymous  with  a 
strong  acid,  and  the  money  given  to 
Antony  as  a  present  by  the  fond  queen. 
The  pearl  melted,  and  Cleopatra  drank 
to  the  health  of  Antony  as  she  handed 
him  the  money.  {See  "Gresham"  in 
Reader'' s  Handbook.) 

Clergy.  The  men  of  God's  lot  or 
inheritance.  In  St.  Peter's  first  epistle 
(ch.  v.  3)  the  Church  is  called  "God's 
heritage  "  or  lot.  In  the  Old  Testament 
the  tribe  of  Levi  is  called  the  "lot  or 
heritage  of  the  Lord."  (Greek,  xA^pos; 
Latin,  clerics  and  clericiis,  whence  Nor- 
man clerex  and  clerkus  ;  French,  clerge.) 

Benefit  of  clergy.     (&e  Benefit.) 


Cler'gymen.  The  dishke  of  sailors 
to  clergjmen  on  board  ship  arises  from 
an  association  with  the  history  of  Jonah. 
Sailors  call  them  a  kittle  canjo,  or  kittlish 
cargo,  meaning  dangerous.  Probably 
the  disastrous  voyage  of  St.  Paul  con- 
finned  the  prejudice. 

Clerical  Titles. 

(1)  Cleek.  As  in  ancient  times  the 
clergyman  was  about  the  only  person 
who  could  write  and  read,  the  word 
clerical,  as  "clerical  error,"  came  to 
signify  an  error  in  spelling.  As  the 
respondent  in  chm'ch  was  able  to  read, 
he  received  the  name  of  clerk,  and  the 
assistants  in  writing,  etc.,  are  so  termed 
in  business.  (Latin,  cler'ieus,  a  clergy- 
man.) 

(2)  CuEATE.  One  who  has  the  cure 
of  souls.  As  the  cure  of  the  parish  used 
to  be  virtually  entrusted  to  the  clerical 
stipendiaiy,  the  word  citraie  was  ai^pro- 
priated  to  this  assistant. 

(.3)  Rectoe.  One  who  has  the  par- 
sonage and  great  tithes.  The  man  who 
rules  or  guides  the  parish.  (Latiia,  "a 
ruler.") 

(4)  ViCAE.  One  who  does  the  "  duty" 
of  a  parish  for  the  person  who  receives 
the  tithes.     (Latin,  ricariits,  a  deputj'.) 

(5)  IxcLTiBENT  and  Peepetual  Cue- 
ate  are  now  tenned  Vicars.     {Sec  Pae- 

SONS.) 

■."  The  French  cure  equals  our  vicar,  and  tb.ir 
vicaire  our  curate. 

Clerical  Vestments. 

(1)  jrhite.  Emblem  of  purity,  worn 
on  all  feasts,  saints'  days,  and  sacra- 
mental occasions. 

(2)  Med.  The  colour  of  blood  and  of 
fire,  worn  on  the  days  of  martyrs,  and 
on  Whit-Sunday,  when  the  Holy  Ghost 
came  down  like  tongues  of  fire. 

(3)  Green.  Worn  only  on  days  which 
are  neither  feasts  nor  fasts. 

(4)  Fitrple.  The  colom-  of  mourning, 
worn  on  Advent  Sundays,  in  Lent,  and 
on  Ember  days. 

(•5)  Flack.  Worn  on  Good  Friday, 
and  when  masses  are  said  for  the  dead. 

Cler'imond.  Niece  of  the  Green 
Knight  {q.v.),  bride  of  Valentine  the 
brave,  and  sister  of  Fer'ragus  the  giant. 
{]'alentine  and  Orson.) 

Clerk.  A  scholar.  Hence,  hcau-clerc. 
{See  above,  Cleeical  Titles.) 

"All  tlie  clerks, 
I  mean  the  learned  ones,  in  Christian  kingdoms, 
Have  their  free  voices." 

Shakespeare :  Benry  Ylll.,  ii,  2. 


Clerk-ale 


262 


Cliquot 


St.  JVicholfif^s  ClerliS.  Thieves.  An 
equivoque  on  the  word  Nick. 

"  I  tbink  tbere  oame  prancing  down  the  hill  a 
couple  of  St..  Nicholas's  clerks,  —ifozcfe;/  .•  McUcIl 
at  MidniaM,  1633. 

Clerk-ale    and    Churcb-ale.      Mr. 

Doiice  says  the  word  "ale"  is  used  iu 
such  composite  words  as  bride-ale,  clerk- 
ale,  church-ale,  lamb-ale,  Midsummer- 
ale,  Scot-ale,  Whitsuu-ale,  etc.,  for 
revel  or  feast,  ale  being  the  chief  liquor 
given. 

"The  nuiltitiule  call  Chiu'ch-ale  Sunda.\'  their 
revel.vii.cr  (lay,  which  day  is  spent  in  hullieatinKS, 
bearboatiiiLr.  .  .  .  dicyiiig,  .  .  .  and  drunkenness." 
—  ir.  Kithc  (l.)70). 

Clerkenwell  (London)  means  the 
Clerks' -well,  where  the  parish  clerks  of 
London  used  to  assemble  yearly  to  play 
some  sacred  piece. 

Clerkly.    Cleverly  ;  like  a  scholar. 

"I  tlKiiik  yiui,  gentle  servant:  'tis  very  clerkly 
dune." 
Shalai'pcare:  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona,  iii.  1. 

Client.  In  Roman  history  meant  a 
plebeian  under  the  patronage  of  a 
patron.  The  client  performed  certain 
services,  and  the  jjatron  protected  the 
life  and  interests  of  the  client.  The 
word  is  now  a  legal  one,  meaning  a 
person  who  employs  the  services  of  a 
legal  adviser  to  jji-otect  his  interests. 

Clifford  (Paul).  A  highwayman, 
refoi-med  by  the  power  of  love,  in  Sir  L. 
Bulvvcr  Lytton's  novel  so  called. 

Climacteric.  It  was  once  believed 
that  7  and  9,  with  their  multiples,  were 
critical  points  in  life  ;  and  63,  which  is 
produced  by  multiplying  7  and  9  to- 
gether, was  termed  the  Grand  Climac- 
teric, which  few  persons  succeeded  iu 
outliving. 

"There  are  two  years,  the  seventh  and  the 
ninth,  that  conininnly  liriui;  great  cJianges  in  a 
man's  life,  and  great  dangers  :  wlierefure  K!,  that 
contains  both  these  numbers  multiplied  togetlier, 
conies  not  without  heaps  of  dangers."— ieiviiHs 
Lemviiis. 

Climacteric  Years  are  seventh  and 
ninth,  with  their  multiples  by  the  odd 
numbers  3,  5,  7,  9 — viz.  7,  9,  '21,  27,  35, 
45,  49,  63,  and  81,  over  which  astrologers 
sup}iosed  Saturn,  the  malevolent  planet, 
presided.  HippScrates  recognises  these 
periods.     {Sec  Nine.) 

Climax  means  a  .stair  (Greek),  ap- 
plied to  the  last  of  a  gradation  of  argu- 
ments, each  of  which  is  stronger  than 
the  preceding.  The  last  of  a  gradation 
of  words  of  a  similar  character  is  also 
called  a  climax.  The  point  of  highest 
development. 

"  In  the  \evy  climax  of  bis  career  ...  be  was 
stricken  dmyn."  —  Chittenden ;  Recollections  of 
Jjincoln,  thap.  xlv.  p.  454, 


Climb.  On  the  cVniib.  Under  the 
hope  of  promotion.  Thomas  Becket, 
after  he  became  Cardinal-archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  was  at  the  top  of  the  tree, 
and  no  further  promotion  was  in  the 
power  of  the  king  to  bestow.  Being  no 
longer  on  the  climb,  he  could  set  the 
king  at  defiance,  and  did  do  so. 

Clinch.  To  bend  the  point  of  a  nail 
after  it  is  driven  liome.  The  word  is 
sometimes  written  c/cncJi,  from  the 
French  elenche,  the  lift  of  a  latch. 
(German,  Idinkc ;  Dutch,  l-rinhcn.  to 
rivet.)     (&r  page  261,  col.  1,  Clench.) 

2'hat  was  a  clinclier.  That  argument 
was  not  to  be  gainsaid ;  that  remark 
drove  the  matter  home,  and  fixed  it  "as 
a  nail  in  a  sure  place." 

A  lie  is  called  a  clinclier  from  the  tale 
about  two  swaggerers,  one  of  whom 
said,  "  I  drove  a  nail  right  through 
the  moon."  ''  Yes,"  said  the  other,  "  I 
remember  it  well,  for  I  went  the  other 
side  and  clinched  it."  The  French  say, 
Je  ltd  al  lien  rite  son  clou  (I  have 
clinched  his  nail  for  him). 

Clin'ker  {Hiiniphrci/).  Hero  of  Smol- 
lett's novel  so  called.  The  general  scheme 
of  Olircr  Tirist  resembles  it.  Hunii)hrcy 
is  a  workhouse  boy,  put  out  apprentice  ; 
but  being  afterwarcls  reduced  to  great 
want,  he  attracts  the  notice  of  Mr. 
Bramble,  who  takes  him  into  his  service. 
He  turns  out  to  be  Bramble's  natural  sou, 
and  falls  in  love  with  Winifred  Jenkins, 
Miss  Bramble's  maid. 

Clio  was  one  of  the  nine  Muses,  the 
inventress  of  historical  and  heroic 
poetry. 

Clio.  Addison  is  so  called  because  his 
papers  in  the  Spectator  are  signed  by 
one  of  the  four  letters  in  this  word, 
probably  the  initial  letters  of  Chelsea, 
London,  Islington,  Office.  {See  Nota- 
eica.) 

V  See  Professor  Morley's  "Introduc- 
tion to  the  Spectator,'"  on  the  subject. 

Clipper.    A  fast-sailing  ship. 

"  We  shall  have  to  catch  the  Aurora,  and  she 
has  a  name  for  being  a  clipper."— i.  C.  Doyle: 
'J'lie  Hidn  of  Four,  chap.  X. 

Slices  a  clipper.  Said  of  a  stylish  or 
beautiful  woman.     A  first-class  craft. 

Clipping  Pace  {A).  Very  fast.  A 
clii^per  is  a  fast-sailing  vessel. 

"  Leaving  Bolus  Head,  we  scudded  on  at  a  clip- 
ping pace,  and  the  skiff  yielded  so  much  to  tlie 
breeze  that  Burv  said  wemust  reef  the  mainsail." 
—  II'.  ,S'.  Trench  :  Realities  of  Irish  Life,  chap.  x. 

Cli'quot  (of  ranch  celebrity).  A 
nickname  of  Frederick  William  IV.  of 


Oloacina 


2fi3 


Closli 


Prussia  ;  so  called  from  his  fondness  for 
champagne  (1795,  1840-1861). 

Cloaci'na.  Goddess  of  sewers.  (Latin, 
clou'ca,  a  sewer.) 

"  Then  Cloaciua,  goddess  of  the.  tide, 
Whose  8al)le  streams  Ijeneath  the  city  Rlide, 
Indulged  the  modish  flame  ;  the  town  slie  roved, 
A  mortal  scavenger  she  saw,  she  loved." 

Gay :  Trivia.,  ii. 

Cloak  and  Sword  Plays.  Modem 
comed}^  played  in  the  ordinary  costume 
of  modem  life.  The  phrase  was  adopted 
by  Cauderon,  who  lived  in  Spain  while 
gentlemen  were  accustomed  to  wear 
cloaks  and  swords.  For  tragedy  the 
men  actors  wore  either  heraldic  or  dra- 
matico-historic  dresses.  In  England 
actors  in  tragedy  and  old  comedy  wore 
the  costume  of  Charles  II. 's  period,  till 
quite  recently. 

Clock.  So  church  bells  were  once 
called.  (Gennan,  gloche ;  French, 
cloche  ;  Mediaeval  Latin,  cloca.) 

"  Wel  sikerer  [surer]  was  hiscrowyng  in  liislogge 
Than  is  a  clok  [bell]  or  alibay  orologge." 

Chaucer :  The  Xonne  Prestes  Tale  (1G39-40). 

Clock.  The  tale  about  St.  Paul's  clock 
striking  thii'teen  is  given  in  Walcott's 
Meittorio.h  of  IVestmhister,  and  refers  to 
John  Hatfield,  who  died  1770,  aged  102. 
He  was  a  soldier  in  the  reign  of  Williani 
III.,  and  was  brought  before  a  court- 
martial  for  falling  asleep  on  duty  upon 
Windsor  TeiTace.  In  jiroof  of  his 
innocence  he  asserted  that  he  heard  St. 
Paul's  clock  strike  thirteen,  which 
statement  was  confirmed  by  several 
witnesses. 

Clodhopper.  A  fanner,  who  hops  or 
walks  amongst  the  clods.  The  cavahy 
call  the  infantiy  clodhoi:)pers,  because 
they  have  to  walk  instead  of  riding 
horseback. 

Clog  Almanac.  A  primitive  alma- 
nac or  calendar,  originally  made  of  a 
"clog,"  or  log  of  wood,  Avith  four  faces 
or  parallelograms ;  the  shai-p  edge  of 
each  face  or  side  was  divided  by  notches 
into  tlu'ee  nronths,-  every  week  being 
marked  by  a  big  notch.  The  face  left 
of  the  notched  edge  contained  the  saints' 
days,  the  festivals,  the  phases  of  the 
moon,  and  so  on  in  Eunic  characters, 
whence  the  "clog"  was  also  called  a 
Runic  staff.  These  curiosities  are  not 
uncommon,  and  specimens  may  be  seen 
in  the  British  Museum,  the  Bodleian 
(Oxford),  the  Ashmolean  Museum,  St. 
John's  (Cambridge),  the  Cheetham 
Library  (Manchester),  and  other  places 
both  at  hon^e  and  abroad, 


Cloister.  He  retired  into  a  cloister, 
a  monastery.  Almost  all  monasteries 
have  a  cloister  or  covered  walk,  which 
generally  occupied  three  sides  of  a 
quadrangle. 

Clootie.  Auld  Clootie.  Old  Nick. 
The  Scotch  call  a  cloven  hoof  a  cloot,  so 
that  Auld  Clootie  is  Old  Cloven-foot. 

Clorida'no  (in  Orlando  Fitrioso).  A 
humble  Moorish  youth,  who  joins  Me- 
do'ro  in  seeking  the  body  of  King 
Dardinello  to  bury  it.  Medoro  being 
woimded,  Cloridano  rushed  madly  into 
the  ranks  of  the  enemy  and  was  slain. 

Clorin'da    (in  Jerusalem  Bclircred). 

A  female  knight  who  came  from  Persia 
to  o]ipose  the  Crusaders,  and  was  ap- 
pointed by  Al'adine  leader  of  all  the 
Pagan  forces.  Tancred  fell  in  love  with 
her ;  but  not  knowing  her  in  a  night 
attack,  slew  her  after  a  most  dreadful 
combat.  Before  she  died  she  received 
Christian  baptism  at  the  hands  of  Tan- 
cred, who  mourned  her  death  with  great 
sorrow  of  heart.     (Book  xii.) 

Sena'pus  of  Ethiopia  (a  Christian)  was 
her  father ;  but  her  being  born  white 
alarmed  her  mother,  who  changed  her 
babe  for  a  black  child.  Arse'tus,  the 
eunuch,  was  entrusted  with  the  infant 
Cloriuda,  and  as  he  was  going  through 
a  forest  he  saw  a  tiger,  cb'opped  the 
child,  and  sought  safety  in  a  tree.  The 
tiger  took  the  babe  and  suckled  it,  after 
which  Ai'setus  left  Ethiopia  Avith  the 
child  for  Egj-pt. 

Close   as   a    Clam.     A  clam  is  a 

bivalve  mollusca,  which  buiTows  in  sand 
or  mud.  It  is  about  the  size  of  a 
florin,  and  may  be  eaten  raw  or  fried 
like  an  oyster.  Clams  are  gathered 
only  when  the  tide  is  out.  When  the 
tide  is  in  thej'-  are  safe  from  molesta- 
tion, hence  the  saying  "Happy  as  a 
clam  at  high  tide."  (Anglo-Saxon, 
clam,  mud ;  verb  clcem-ian,  to  glue ; 
German,  Jdamm,  close.) 

Close  Rolls  are  mandates,  letters, 
and  writs  of  a  private  nature,  addressed, 
in  the  Sovereign's  name,  to  individtials, 
and  folded  or  clowd  and  sealed  on  the 
outside  with  the  Great  Seal. 

V  Patent  Rolls  are  left  open,  with  the- 
seal  hanging  from  the  bottom. 

Close-time  lor  Game.     {See  Spoet- 

ING  SeASOXS.) 

Closh  {Meinlierr).  A  Dutch  Jack- 
tar.  Closh  is  corrupt  fonn  of  Claus,  a 
contraction    of    Nicholas,    a    name    as 


Cloten 


2fi4 


Clym  of  the  Clough 


commou  with  the  Dutch  as  Jack  is  with 
the  English  people, 

Clo'ten.  A  vindictive  lout  who  wore 
his  dagger  in  his  mouth.  He  fell  in 
love  with  Im'ogen,  but  his  love  was  not 
reciprocated.    {^Shakespeare :  CymbcUne.) 

Clofh  [The).  The  clergy;  the  clerical 
office  ;  thus  we  say  ' '  having  respect  for 
the  cloth."  Formerly  the  clergy  used 
to  wear  a  distinguishing  costume,  made 
of  grey  or  black  cloth. 

Clotha'rius  or  Clothaire  (in  Jem- 
salon  Delivered).  At  the  death  of 
Hugo  he  takes  the  lead  of  the  Franks,  but 
is  shot  by  Clorinda  {q.v.)  with  an  arrow 
(book  xi.).  After  his  death,  his  troops 
sneak  away  and  leave  the  Christian 
army  (book  xiii.) . 

Clotho,  in  Classic  mythology.  One 
of  the  Three  Fates.  She  presided  over 
birth,  and  drew  from  her  distaff  the 
thread  of  life  ;  Atropos  presided  over 
death  and  cut  the  tlu-ead  of  life ;  and 
Lachesis  spun  the  fate  of  life  between 
birth  and  death.  (Greek,  MCtlto,  to 
draw  thread  from  a  distaff.) 

"  A  France  sliisbed  asunder  with  Clotho-scissors 
unci  civil.war."— 6Vn-/;//(;.  iTliis  is  an  erroneous 
alkisiou.  "it  was  Atroiios  who  cut  the  thread.) 

Cloud,  Clouds. 

He  is  in  tlie  elouds.  In  dreamland ; 
entertaining  visionary  notions ;  having 
no  distinct  idea  about  the  matter  in 
question. 

He  is  under  a  ehmd.  Under  suspicion, 
in  disrepute. 

To  blow  a  cloud  is  to  smoke  a  cigar  or 
pipe. 

Cloud.  A  dark  spot  on  the  forehead 
of  a  horse  between  the  eyes.  A  white 
spot  is  called  a  star,  and  an  elongated 
star  is  a  blaze.     {See  Blaze.) 

"  Arpippa.  He  [Antony]  has  a  cloud  on  his  face. 
£)iobarbiis.  He  were  the  worse  for  that  were  lie 
a  horse." 
iShakespeare :  Antony  and  Cleopatra,  iii.  2. 

Cloud  (St.).  Patron  saint  of  nail- 
smitlis,  by  a  play  ujiou  the  French  word 
elo/i,  a  nail. 

Clouded  Cane  (A).  A  malacca  cane 
clouded  or  mottled  from  age  and  use. 
These  canes  were  veiy  fashionable  in 
the  first  quarter  of  the  present  century. 

Cloven  Foot.  To  sJioiv  the  cloven 
foot,  i.e.  to  show  a  knavish  intention  ;  a 
base  motive.  The  allusion  is  to  Satan, 
represented  with  the  legs  and  feet  of  a 
goat ;  and,  however  he  might  disguise 
himself,  he  could  never  conceal  his 
cloven  feet.     [See  Bag  o'  Nails,  Goat.) 

"Real  grief   little  iuflueuced  its  composition 


.  .  .  and  the  cloven  foot  peeps  out  in  some 
letters  written  hy  him  at  the  period."— iS*../amcs'g 
Magazine. 

Clover.  He''s  in  clover.  In  luck,  in 
prosperous  circumstances,  in  a  good 
situation.  The  allusion  is  to  cattle  feed- 
ing in  clover  fields. 

Clowns.    The  three  most  celebrated 

are    Joseph   Grimaldi   (1770-1837),    the 

French  Carlin  (1713-1783),  and  Eichard 

Tarlton,  in  the  days  of  Queen  Elizabeth, 

who  acted  at  the  galleried  inn  called  the 

Helle  Sauvage. 

"  To  sit  with  Tarlton  on  an  alehouse  signe." 
Bisliop  llaU :  Natires. 

Club.  A  society  of  persons  who  club 
together,  or  form  themselves  into  a  knot 
or  lunqi. 

The  word  was  originally  applied  to 
persons  bound  together  by  a  vow. 
(German,  gelitbde.)    [Sec  Caeds,  4  clubs.) 

"  [ll'.io]  was  the  era  of  chivalry,  ....  for  bodies 
of  men  uniting  themselves  by  a  sacred  vow, 
f/(;«M(',  which  word  and  thing  have  passed  over 
tons  in  a  singularly  dwindled  condition, '  clul) ' 
we  call  it  ;  and  the  vow  ....  does  not  rank  very 
lii^'h."  — CVir(i/(e;  Frederick  the  Great,  vol.  i.  p. 
111. 

Club-bearer  {The).  Periphe'tcs,  the 
robber  of  Ar'golis,  is  so  called  because  he 
murdered  his  victims  with  an  iron  club. 

Club-land.  That  part  of  the  West 
End  of  London  where  the  principal  clubs 
are  situated ;  the  members  of  such  clubs. 

Club-law.  The  law  of  might  or 
compulsion  through  fear  of  chastisement. 
Do  it  or  get  a  hicling. 

Clue.  I  have  not  yet  got  the  chte  :  to 
give  a  clue,  i.e.  a  hint.  A  clue  is  a  ball  of 
"thread  (Ang.-Saxon,  cleoicen).  The  only 
mode  of  finding  the  way  out  of  the 
Cretan  labyrinth  was  by  a  skein  of 
thread,  which,  being  laid  along  the 
proper  route,  indicated  the  right  path. 

Clumsy  (Norwegian,  kliiinp,  a  lump ; 
Swedish,  Iclummscn,  benumbed ;  Ice- 
landic, kluinsa).  Piers  Plo^\^nan  has 
"thou  klompsist  for  cold,"  and  Wiclif 
has  "Our  hondis  ben  aclumi^sid." 
Halliwcll  gives  us  cluiiijjish  =  awkward, 
and  clump  =  lazy. 

Clu'ricaune  (3  syl.).  An  elf  of  evil 
disposition  who  usually  appears  as  a 
wrinkled  old  man,  and  has  knowledge 
of  hid  treasures.     {Irish  mythology.) 

Clydesdale  Horses.  Scotch  draught- 
horses,  not  equal  to  Shire-horses  in  size, 
but  of  great  endurance.      {See  Shiee- 

HOESES.) 

Clym  of  the  Clough,  with  Adam  Bell 
and  William  of  Cloudesly,  were  noted 
outlaws,  whose  skill  in  archery  rendered 


Clytie 


265 


Coals  of  Fire 


them  as  famous  in  the  north  of  England 
as  Eobin  Hood  and  Little  John  iu  the 
midland  counties.  Their  place  of  resort 
was  iu  Euglewood  Forest,  near  Car- 
lisle. N.B.  —  Euglewood  means  fire- 
wood. Clym  of  the  Clough  means 
Clement  of  the  Cliff. 

Clytie  (3  syl.).  A  water-nymph,  iu 
love  with  Apollo.  Meeting  with  no  re- 
turn, she  was  changed  into  a  suufiower, 
which,  traditionally,  still  turns  to  the 
sun,  following  him  through  his  daily 
course. 

Cnepb.  The  name  under  wliicli  the 
Egyptians  adore  the  Creator  of  the 
world. 

Cnidian  Venus  {The).  The  ex- 
quisite statue  of  Venus  or  Aphrodite  by 
Praxiteles,  placed  in  the  temple  of  Venus, 
at  Cnidus. 

Co.  A  conti-actiou  of  compainj ;  as 
Smith  and  Co. 

Coach  {A).  A  lu-ivate  tutor.  The 
term  is  a  pun  on  getting  on  fast.  To  get 
on  fast  you  take  a  coach ;  j'ou  cannot 
get  on  fast  without  a  private  tutor — 
ergo,  a  private  tutor  is  the  coach  you 
take  iu  order  that  you  may  get  on 
quickly.     {Unirersify  slang.) 

"  The  l)()oks  ....  are  expensive,  anil  often  a 
further  expense  is  entailed  by  the  necessity  of 
securing 'a  coa.ch.' "—Stedman:  Oxford,  chap.  x. 
p.  188. 

To  dine  in  the  coach.  In  the  captain's 
private  room.  The  coach  or  couch  of  a 
ship  is  a  small  apartment  near  the  stern, 
the  floor  being  formed  of  the  aftmost 
part  of  the  quarter-deck,  and  the  roof 
by  the  poop. 

A  slow  coach.  A  dull,  uuprogressive 
person,  somewhat  fossilised. 

"  What  a  dull,  old-fashioned  chap  thou  be'st .  .  . 
but  thou  wert  always  a  slow-coach."  —  Mrs. 
Guskell:  Cihbie  Marsh  (Era  2). 

Coach-and-four  (or  Coach-and-sLr). 
It  is  said  one  may  drive  a  coach-and- 
four  through  an  Act  of  Parliament,  i.e. 
lawyers  can  always  find  for  their  clients 
some  loophole  of  escape. 

"  It  is  easy  to  drive  a  coach-and-four  through 
wills,  and  settlements,  and  legal  things."—//.  R. 
Jldfiga  rd. 

"  [Rice]  was  often  heard  to  say  ....  that  lie 
Would  drive  a  coach  and  six  horses  through  the 
.\ct  of  Settlement."— H'efifood. 

Coach -and -pair  (A).  A  coach 
drawn  by  a  pair  of  horses.  Coach-and- 
four,  coach-and-six,  etc. 

Coach  Away.  Get  on  a  little  faster. 
Your  coach  drags  ;  drive  on  faster. 

Coached  Up.  Taught  by  a  private 
tutor  for  examination.  "  Well  coaclied 
up,  ■'  well  crammed  or  taught. 


Coal.  Hot  as  a  coaJ.  The  expression 
has  au  obvious  allusion. 

To  post  the  coal  or  cole.  To  pay  or 
put  down  the  cash.  Coal  =  money  has 
been  in  use  in  the  sporting  world  for 
very  many  years.  Buxton,  in  1863, 
used  the  phrase  "post  the  coal,"  and 
since  then  it  has  been  in  frequent  use. 
Probably  rhyming  slang:  "Coal,"  an 
imperfect  rhyme  of  gool  ^go\di.  {See 
page  248,  Chivy,  and  page  2GG,  Coaling.) 

"  It  would  not  suit  me  to  write.  .  .  .  even  if  they 
offered,  ...  to  post  the  co\q."— Hood. 

Coal  Brandy.  Burnt  brandJ^  The 
ancient  way  to  set  brandy  on  fire  was  to 
drop  in  it  a  live  or  red-hot  coal. 

Coals. 

To  blow  the  coals.  To  fan  dissensions, 
to  excite  smouldering  animosity  into 
open  hostiUty,  as  diUl  coals  are  blown 
into  a  blaze  by  a  pair  of  bellows. 

I'o  carrg  coals.  To  be  put  upon. 
"Gregory,  o'  my  word,  we'll  not  carry 
coals" — i.e.  submit  to  be  "put  upon" 
{Romeo  and  Juliet,  i.  1).  So  iu  Every 
Man  out  of  his  Ilunwur,  "Here  comes 
one  that  'will  carry  coals,  ergo,  will  hold 
my  dog."  The  allusion  is  to  the  dirty, 
laborious  occupation  of  coal-carriers. 
Gifford,  in  his  edition  of  Ben  Jonson, 
saj-s,  "  Of  these  {i.e.  scullions,  etc.),  the 
most  forlorn  wretches  were  selected  to 
carry  coals  to  the  kitchen,  halls,  etc." 
(.SVtf  page  141,  col.  1,  Blackguard.) 

To  carry  coals  to  Kewcastle.  To  do 
what  is  superfluous.  As  Newcastle  is 
the  great  coal-field,  it  would  be  quite 
superfluous  to  carry  coals  thither.  The 
French  say,  '■'■Porter  deVeau  a  la  riviere" 
(to  carry  water  to  the  river).  There  are 
nimierous  Latin  equivalents:  as,  "To 
carry  wood  to  the  forests;"  '■'■  Poma 
Alcinoo  dare"  {See  Alcinoo)  ;  " Xoctuas 
Athenasferre"  (<SVe  Noctuas) ;  "Crocum 
in  Ciliciainferre"  {See  CnocvM). 

To  haul  over  the  coals.  To  bring  to 
task  for  shortcomings ;  to  scold.  At 
one  time  the  Jews  were  "bled"  when- 
ever the  kings  or  barons  wanted  money  ; 
and  one  very  common  torture,  if  they 
resisted,  was  to  haul  them  over  the  coals 
of  a  slow  fire,  to  give  them  a  "roast- 
ing." (See  Ivanhoc,  where  Front-de- 
Boeuf  threatens  to  haul  Isaac  over  the 
coals. ) 

Coals  of  Fire.  To  heap  coals  of  fire 
on  the  head  of  a  foe.  To  melt  down  his 
animosity  by  deeds  of  kindness. 

"  If  thine  enemy  be  hungry,  give  him  bread  to 
eat;  and  if  he  be  tliirsty,  give  him  water  to  drink  ; 
for  thou  Shalt  heap  coals  of  fire  upon  his  head."— 
Prov.  XXV.  21,  22. 


Coaling 


266 


Cob 


Coaling,  in  theatrical  slang,  means 
telling  phrases  and  speeches,  as,  "My 
part  is  full  of  '  coaling  lines.' "  Coal 
being  money,  means  profit,  whence  coal- 
■1)1  J.   (iSVr  p.  265,  To  POST  THE  Coal  .  .  .) 

Coalition  Government.  A  Govern- 
ment formed  by  various  parties  by  a 
mutual  surrender  of  i^rinciples.  The 
administration  of  Lord  North  and  Charles 
Fox,  1783,  was  a  coalition,  but  it  fell  to 
pieces  in  a  few  months.  That  of  Lord 
Salisburj'  with  the  old  "Whig  party 
headed  by  Lord  Hartington  was  a  coali- 
tion (188(i-189'J). 

Coast  Clear.  Is  the  coast  clear  ? 
The  coast  is  clear.  There  is  no  likeli- 
hood of  interference.  None  of  the  coast- 
guards are  about. 

Coast  Men  of  Attica.  The  mer- 
chant class  who  lived  along  the  coast- 
lauds  {I'ar'al/). 

Coasting  Lead  (A).  A  sounding 
lead  used  in  shallow  water. 

Coasting  Trade.  Trade  between 
ports  of  the  same  country  carried  on  by 
coasting  vessels. 

Coasting  Waiter.  An  officer  of 
Customs  in  the  Port  of  London,  whose 
duty  it  was  to  visit  and  make  a  return 
of  coasting  vessels  trading  from  one  part 
of  the  kingdom  to  another,  and  which 
(from  the  nature  of  their  cargo)  were 
not  required  to  report  or  make  entry  at 
the  Custom  House.  These  vessels  were 
liable  to  the  paj-ment  of  certain  small 
dues,  which  it  was  the  duty  of  the 
Coasting  Waiter  to  exact.  He  was  also 
expected  to  search  the  cargo,  that  no 
contraband  goods  were  illicitly  on  board. 
Like  Tide  Waiters,  these  Coasting  Wait- 
ers were  abolished  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  and  their  duties 
have  since  been  perfomied  by  the  Exam- 
ining Officer.  Theii-  salary  was  about 
£40  a  year. 

Coat. 

Cat  your  coat  aecordbtg  to  your  cloth. 
Curtail  your  expenses  to  the  amount  of 
your  income  ;  live  within  your  means. 
Si  non  possis  quod  relis,  velis  id  quod 
possis. 

Near  is  my  coat,  but  nearer  is  my  skin. 
'^Tunica  pallia  propior  est.^'  "  £ffo 
proximus  mihi.'''' 

To  baste  one''s  coat.  To  dust  his 
jacket ;  to  beat  him. 

To  wear  the  king''s  coat.  To  be  a 
soldier. 

Turning  onc''s  coat  for  lack.  It  was  an 
ancient    superstition    that    this    was    g. 


charm  against  evil  spirits.     {See  Tuen- 

COAT.) 

"  William  found 
A  means  for  our  deliverance :  '  Turn  your  cloaks,' 
yuutli  bee, '  f<jr  Pucke  is  liusy  in  these  oakos.'  " 
Bishop  Corbttt :  Iter  Bvreale. 

Coat  of  Arms.  A  surcoat  worn  by 
knights  over  their  armour,  decorated 
with  devices  by  which  heralds  described 
the  wearer.  Hence  the  heraldic  device 
of  a  family.  Coat-anuour  was  invented 
in  the  Crusading  expeditions,  to  distin- 
guish the  various  noble  warriors  when 
wrapped  in  complete  steel,  a7id  it  was 
introduced  into  England  by  Eichard 
Lion-heart. 

Coat  of  many  Colours  (Gen. 
xxxvii.  3).  HaiTuer,  in  his  Observations 
(vol.  ii.  p.  386),  infoiTus  us  that  "  many 
colom-s "  in  this  connection  does  not 
mean  striped,  flowered,  embroidered,  or 
"printed"  with  several  colours,  but 
having  ' '  divers  jDieces  of  different  colours 
sewed  together  "  in  patchwork.  The 
Hebrew  word  is  passeem.  In  2  Sam. 
xiii.  18  we  are  told  that  king's  daughters 
wore  a  garment  of  manj'  colours  or 
divers  puces.  Dr.  Adam  Clarke  says 
that  similar  garments  "  are  worn  by 
persons  of  distinction  in  Persia,  India, 
and  some  parts  of  China  to  the  present 
day."  The  great  offence  was  this :  Jacob 
was  a  sheik,  and  by  giving  Joseph  a 
"  prince's  robe"  he  virtually  announced 
him  his  heir.     {Sec  Divers  Colotjes.) 

Coats,  Hosen,  and  Hats  (Dan.  iii. 
21).  These  were  not  articles  of  dress, 
but  badges  of  office.  It  vdW  be  recol- 
lected that  Shadrach  and  his  two  com- 
panions had  recentlj'  been  set  over 
provinces  of  Babylon :  and  Nebuchad- 
nezzar degraded  them  by  insisting  on 
their  wearing  their  insignia  of  office. 
The  word  cap  would  be  better  than 
"  hat,"  their  caps  of  office  ;  and  sandals 
would  be  better  than  "  hosen."  Coats 
or  cloaks  have  always  designated  office. 
"  Hosen  "  means  what  the  Romans 
called  calceus  patrieins,  which  were  san- 
dalled up  to  the  calf  of  the  leg.  Every 
Latin  scholar  knows  that  calccos  mntare 
means  to  "  become  a  senator." 

Cob  [A).  Between  a  pony  and  a  horse 
in  size,  from  thirteen  to  nearly  fifteen 
hands  high.  The  word  means  big,  stout. 
The  original  meaning  is  a  tuft  or  head, 
hence  eminent,  large,  powerful.  The 
"cob  of  the  county"  is  the  gi-eat  boss 
thereof.  A  rich  cob  is  a  plutocrat. 
Hence  also  a  male,  as  a  cob-swan. 

V  Riding  horses  run  between  fifteen 
and  sijcteeu  hands  in  height,  and  carriage 


Cobalt 


267         Cock  and  Bull  Story 


horses,  between  sixteen  and  seventeen 
hands. 

Cobalt.  From  the  German  Kohold 
(a  gnome).  The  demon  of  mines.  This 
metal  was  so  called  by  miners,  because 
it  was  long  thought  to  be  useless  and 
troublesome.  It  was  consequently  at- 
tributed to  the  ill  offices  of  the  mine 
demon. 

Cobbler.  A  drink  made  of  wine 
(sheri-y),  sugar,  lemon,  and  ice.  It  is 
sijjped  up  through  a  straw.  {See  Cob- 
bler's Punch.) 

"  Tliis  ■wonderful  invention,  sir,  ...  is  called 
colihler,^Slierry  cobhler,  when  you  name  it  long; 
cobbler  when  you  name  it  short."— X'icA'ens;  Mar- 
tiu  Cliuzzleicit,  xvii. 

Cobbler.  Let  not  the  eohhier  oreratcp 
Jii.s  last  {Xe  su'tor  ultra  crep'idam).  Let 
no  one  presume  to  interfere  in  matters 
of  which  he  is  ignorant.  The  tale  goes 
that  a  cobbler  detected  a  fault  in  the 
shoe-latchet  of  one  of  Apelles'  paintings, 
and  the  artist  rectified  the  fault.  The 
cobbler,  thinking  himself  very  wise,  next 
ventured  to  criticise  the  legs  ;  but 
Apelles  answered,  "  Keejj  to  your 
trade  ' ' — you  understand  about  shoes, 
but  not  about  anatomy. 

^Cobbler  Poet  ( The) .  Hans  Sachs  of 
Nuremberg,  prince  of  the  mastersingers 
of  Germany  (1494-1574). 

Cobbler's  Punch.  Gin  and  water, 
with  a  little  treacle  and  vinegar. 

Cobbler's  Toast.  School-boys'  bread 
and  butter,  toasted  on  the  diy  side  and 
eaten  hot. 

Cob'ham,  referred  to  by  Thomson  in 
his  Aatx  1)1)1,  was  Sir  Richard  Temjile, 
created  Lord  Cobham  in  1714. 

Cob-nut.  A  nut  with  a  tuft.  (Welsh, 
cob  or  coj),  a  tuft ;  German,  liopf,  the 
head.) 

Coburgs.  A  corded  or  ribbed  cotton 
cloth  made  in  Coburg  (Saxony),  or  in 
imitation  thereof.  Chiefly  used  for 
ladies'  di'esses. 

Cob 'web.  Cob,  Teutonic  for  "  spi- 
der." Dwich,  f:piiinckop  ;  Saxou,  atter- 
cop  (poisonous  sj^ider)  ;  Chaldee,  kopi 
(spider's  web). 

Cock.  Mahomet  found  in  the  first 
heaven  a  cock  of  such  enormous  size 
that  its  crest  touched  the  second  heaven. 
The  crowing  of  this  celestial  bird  arouses 
every  living  creature  from  sleep  except 
man.  The  Moslem  doctors  say  that 
Allah  lends  a  willing  ear  to  him  who 
reads  the  Koran,  to  him  who  prays  for 


pardon,  and  to  the  cock  whose  chant  is 
divine  melody.  When  this  cock  ceases 
to  crow,  the  day  of  judgment  will  be  at 
hand. 

Cock.  Dedicated  to  Apollo,  the  sun- 
god,  because  it  gives  notice  of  the  rising 
of  the  sun.  It  was  dedicated  to  Mer- 
cury, because  it  summons  men  to  busi- 
ness by  its  crowing.  And  to  ^scu- 
lapius,  because  "  early  to  bed  and  early  to 
rise,  makes  a  man  healthy." 

A  cock  on  church  spires  is  to  remind 
men  not  to  deny  their  Lord  as  Peter 
did,  but  when  the  cock  crew  he  "  went 
out  and  wept  bitterly."  Peter  Le  Neve 
affirms  that  a  cock  was  the  warlike 
ensign  of  the  Goths,  and  therefore  used 
in  Gothic  churches  for  ornament. 

Every  cock  crous  on  its  own  duufihill, 
or  Ilka  cock  croivs  on  his  own  midden. 
It  is  easy  to  brag  of  your  deeds  in  your 
own  castle  when  safe  from  danger  and 
not  likely  to  be  put  to  the  proof. 

Latin  :  Gallus  in  suo  sterquilinio 
plurimum  potest. 

French :  Chien  sur  son  fumier  est 
hardi. 

Spanish :  Cada  Galla  canta  en  su 
muladar. 

Nourish  a  cock,  but  offer  it  not  in  sacri- 
fice. This  is  the  eighteenth  Symbolic 
Saying  in  the  Protreptics  of  lamblichus. 
The  cock  was  sacred  to  Minerva,  and 
also  to  the  Sun  and  Moon,  and  it  would 
be  impious  to  offer  a  sacrilegious 
oifering  to  the  gods.  What  is  already 
consecrated  to  God  cannot  be  employed 
in  sacrifice. 

That  cock  iconH  fi(jht.  That  dodge 
woiddn't  answer  ;  that  tale  won't  wash. 
Of  course,  the  allusion  is  to  fighting 
cocks.  A  bet  is  made  on  a  favourite 
cock,  but  when  pitted  he  refuses  to 
fight. 

To  cry  cock.  To  claim  the  victoi-y  ; 
to  assert  oneself  to  be  the  superior.  As 
a  cock  of  the  walk  is  the  chief  or  ruler 
of  the  whole  walk,  so  to  cry  cock  is  to 
claim  this  cockship. 

Cock  and  Bottle.  A  public-house 
sign,  meaning  diuught  and  bottled  ale 
may  be  had  on  the  premises.  The 
"cock"  here  means  the  tap.  It  does 
not  mean  "  The  Cork  and  Bottle." 

Cock  and  Bull  Story.  A  corrup- 
tion of  a  concocted  and  bully  story.  The 
catch-i^ennies  hawked  about  the  streets 
are  still  called  cocks  —  i.e.  concocted 
things.  Bully  is  the  Danish  bullcn  (ex- 
aggerated), our  bull-rush  (an  exaggerated 
rush),  bull-frog,  etc. 

Another  etymology  may  be  suggested  : 


Cock  and  Pie 


2G8 


Cock  Lane  Ghost 


The  idol  Nergal  was  the  most  common 
idol  of  the  aucieut  Phoeniciaus,  Indiaus, 
and  Persians,  and  Nergal  means  a  dioif/- 
h'lll  cock.  The  Egyptian  bull  is  equally 
uotorious  under  the  name  of  Osi'ris.  A 
cock-aud-buU  story  may  therefore  mean 
a  itiijth ,  iu  reference  to  the  mythological 
fables  of  Nergal  and  Osiris. 

The  French  equivalents  are  fairc  un 
coq  a  Vane  and  un  conie  de  ma  mire  Pole 
(a  mother  goose  tale). 

Cock  and  Pie  (-Cy).     We  meet  Avith 

cock'' ft  Iwi/cs,  cock's  wounds,  cock's  mother, 
cock's  body,  cock's  passion,  etc.,  where 
we  can  have  no  doubt  that  the  word  is  a 
minced  oath,  and  stands  for  the  sacred 
name  which  should  never  be  taken  in 
vain.  The  I'ie  is  the  table  or  rule  in  the 
old  Koraan  offices,  showing  how  to  find 
out  the  service  for  each  day,  called  by 
the  Gveeka  pi' nax  (an  index).  The  latter 
part  of  the  oath  is  equivalent  to  "  the 
Mass  book." 

"  By  cock  and  pie,  sir,  you  sball  not  a\vay  tu- 
■a\i;\\t."— Shakespeare :  -^  Henry  /r.,  act  v.  1. 

Cock  and  Fie  (as  a  public-house  sign) 
is  probably  "The  Cock  and  Magpie." 

Cock  of  Hay  {A)  or  a  haycock.  A 
small  heap  of  hay  tkrown  up  tempo- 
rarily. (German,  kocke,  a  heap  of  hay ; 
Norwegian,  kok,  a  heap.) 

Cock  of  the  North.  The  Duke  of 
Gordon.  So  called  on  a  monument 
erected  to  his  honour  at  Fochabers,  in 
Abordeensliire.     (Died  1836.) 

Cock  of  the  Walk.  The  dominant 
bully  or  master  spirit.  The  place  where 
barn-door  fowls  are  fed  is  called  the 
icalk,  and  if  there  is  more  than  one  cock 
they  Avill  fight  for  the  supremacy  of  this 
domain. 

Cock-a-hoop  or  Cock-a-houp.  To  sit 
cock-u-houp.  Boastful,  defiant,  like  a 
game-cock  with  his  houpe  or  crest  erect ; 
eagerly  expectant.  (French,  coq  a 
huppe.) 

"  And  having  routed  a  whole  troop, 
With  victory  was  cock-a-lioop." 

Butler :  Nudibras,  i.  3. 

Cock  apace.  Set  ofE  as  fast  as  you 
can  run.  A  cock  is  a  taj)  thi-ough  which 
liquor  runs.  "To  cock"  is  to  walk 
lightly  or  nimbly. 

"If  stoi'uis  be  nigh  then  cock  apace,"  says 
TusserUl'-l). 

Cockboat  or  Cockle  Boat,  A  small 
boat  made  of  a  wicker  frame,  and 
covered  with  leather  or  oil-cloth.  The 
Welsh  fishers  used  to  cany  them  on 
their    backs.      (Welsh,   cicch,  a    boat ; 


French,  coche,  a  passage  boat ;  Irish, 
coca  ;  Italian,  cocc(( ;  Norwegian,  koy,  a 
cockboat.) 

Cock-crow.  The  Hebrews  divided 
the  night  into  four  watches  :  1,  The 
"  beginning  of  the  watches  "  or  "  even  " 
(Lam.  ii.  19)  ;  2,  "The  middle  watch" 
or  "midnight"  (Judg.  vii.  19)  ;  3,  "The 
cock  -  crowing ;  "  4,  "The  morning 
watch"  or  "dawning"  (Exod.  xiv. 
24). 

"  Ye  know  not  when  the  master  of  the  hovise 
conieth,at  even,  or  at  iiiiduiglit,  or  at  the  cock- 
crowing,  or  in  the  morning."— Mark  xiii.  35. 

*»*  The  Eomans  divided  the  night  into 
sixteen  parts,  each  one  hour  and 
a -half,  beginning  at  midnight.  The 
third  of  these  divisions  (3  a.m.)  they 
ciiWcA  yaUiciniu)u,i\iQ  time  when  cocks 
begin  to  crow;  the  next  was  conticinium, 
when  they  ceased  to  crow  ;  and  fifth  was 
diluculum,  dawn. 

Probably  the  Eomans  sounded  the 
hour  on  a  trumpet  (bugle)  three  times, 
and  if  so  it  would  explain  the  diversity 
of  the  Gospels  :  "  Before  the  cock  crow  " 
(John  xiii.  38,  Luke  xxii.  34,  and  Matt. 
xxvi.  34);  but  "Before  the  cock  crow 
tu-ice  "  (Mark  xiv.  30) — that  is,  before 
the  "  bugle  "  has  finished  sounding. 

Apparitions  vanish  at  cock  crow.  This 
is  a  Christian  superstition,  the  cock  being 
the  watch -bird  placed  on  church  spires, 
and  therefore  sacred. 

"  The  morning  cock  crew  loud, 
And  at  the  sound  it  [the  Ghost]  shrunk  m  haste 

away, 
And  vanished  from  our  sight." 

Sliakespeure  :  llumU.t,  i.  '2. 

Cock-eye.  A  squint.  Cock-eyed, 
having  a  squint ;  cross-eyed.  (Irish 
and  Gaelic,  caoy,  a  squint ;  "  caogshuil," 
squint-eyed.) 

Cock-fighting  was  introduced  into 
Britain  by  the  Eomans.  It  was  a  fa- 
vourite sport  both  with  the  Greeks  and 
with  the  Eomans. 

That  beats  cock-fyhting.  That  is 
most  imi^robable  and  extraordinary. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  extravagant  tales 
told  of  fighting-cocks. 

"  He  can  only  relieve  his  feelings  hy  the  .  .  . 
frequent  repetiticm, '  Well,  that  beats  cock-fight- 
ing ! '  "—WIrytc-Mclville. 

To  live  like  fightiny -cocks.  To  live 
in  luxury.  Before  game-cocks  are  pitted 
they  are  fed  plentifully  on  the  very  best 
food. 

Cock-horse.  To  ridc-a-cock-horsc.  To 
sit  astride  a  person's  foot  or  knee  while 
he  dances  or  tosses  it  up  and  down. 

Cock  Lane  Ghost.  A  tale  of  terror 
without  truth ;    an   imaginary  tale    of 


Cock-pit 


2G9 


Cockatrice 


horrors.  lu  Cock  Lane,  Stockwell  (1762), 
certain  kuockiugs  were  heard,  which  Mr. 
Pai'sons,  the  owner,  declared  proceeded 
from  the  ghost  of  Fanny  Kent,  who 
died  suddenly,  and  Parsons  wished  peo- 
ple to  suppose  that  she  had  been  mur- 
dered by  her  husband.  All  London  was 
agog  with  this  story ;  but  it  was  found 
out  that  the  knockings  were  i^roduced 
by  Parsons'  daughter  (a  girl  twelve  years 
of  age)  rapping  on  a  board  wliich  she 
took  into  her  bed.  Parsons  was  con- 
demned to  stand  in  the  pillorj'.  {>Sce 
Stockwell  Ghost.) 

Cock-pit.  The  judicial  committee  of 
the  privj^  council  is  so  called,  because 
the  council -room  is  built  on  the  old 
cock- pit  of  Whitehall  i^alace. 

"  (Ti-eat  cousultatiiiiis  at  tln^  rockpit  aliont 
liattles,  duels,  victories,  and  wliat  not."— Poor 
Iliibiu's  Almanack,  1730. 

Cock  Sure  is  cocki/  sure — pertly  con- 
fident. We  call  a  self-confident,  over- 
bearing prig  a  cocky  fellow,  from  the 
barnyard  despot ;  but  Shakespeare  em- 
ploys the  phrase  in  the  sense  of  ' '  sure 
as  the  cock  of  a  firelock." 

"  We  steal  as  in  a  castle,  cock-sni'e."— .S/in/je- 
speare  :  1  Henry  IV.,  ii.  1. 

V  The  French  phrase  is  a  coup  silr, 
as:  "  jVons  ri'iissiroiis  a  coup  sih\^'  we 
are  certain  of  success,  "  Ccla  est  aiiisi 
((  coup  sur,'"  etc.,  and  the  phrase  "Sure 
as  a  gun,"  seem  to  favour  the  latter 
derivation. 

Cock  the  Ears  {To).  To  prick  up 
the  ears,  or  tuni  tliem  as  a  horse  does 
wlieu  he  listens  to  a  strange  sound. 
Here  "  cock  "  means  to  turn,  and  seems 
to  be  connected  with  the  Greek  ku'kAo?, 
a  circle,  and  the  verb  kvkXoih. 

Cock  the  Nose  or  Cock  up  the  nose. 
To  turn  up  tlie  nose  in  contempt.  {Sec 
Cock  youe  Eye.) 

Cock  up  your  Head  [foot,  etc.]. 
Lift  up,  turn  up  your  head  or  foot. 
The  allusion  is  to  cocking  hay,  i.e.  lift- 
ing it  into  small  heajis  or  into  the  hay- 
cart.     {Sec  Cock  op  Hay.) 

Cock  your  Eye  {To)  is  to  shut  one 
eye  and  look  -n-ith  the  other ;  to  glance 
at.  A  ''cock-eye"  is  a  squinting  eye, 
and  "cock-eyed"  is  having  squinting 
eyes.  In  many  phrases,  cock  means  to 
turn.     {See  above.) 

Cock  your  Hat  (To).  To  set  youi- 
hat  more  on  one  side  of  tlie  head  than 
on  the  other  ;  to  look  knowing  and  pert. 
Soldiers  cock  their  caps  over  the  left  side 
to  "  look  smart."     {See  Cocked  Hat.) 


Cockade.  The  men-servants  of  the 
military  wear  a  small  black  cockade  on 
their  hat,  the  Hanoverian  badge.  The 
Stuart  cockade  was  white.  At  the  battle 
of  Sherra-Muir,  in  the  reign  of  George  I. , 
the  English  soldiers  wore  a  black  rosette 
in  their  hats.  In  the  song  of  Shei-ra- 
Muir  the  EngUsh  soldiers  are  called 
"  the  red-coat  lads  wi'  black  cockades." 
(French,  cocardf  ;  German,  kokarde.) 

In  the  British  Army  and  Navy  the 
cockade,  since  the  Hanoverian  accession, 
has  been  black. 

AxjSTEiAN  cockade  is  black  and  yellow. 
All  sentry  boxes  and  boundary  i^osts  are 
so  painted.  J^hi  sc/iirarz-f/elbcr  W':\s  Uie 
nickname  of  an  Austrian  Imperialist  in 
1848. 

Bavaeia,  light  blue  and  white  are  the 
royal  colours. 

Belgium,  black,  yellow,  and  red. 

Feajstce  {regal),  the  royal  colour  was 
white. 

Haxovee,  the  cockade  was  b^a-  k. 
Black  enters  into  all  the  German  cock- 
ades. 

Peussla.,  black  and  white  are  the  royal 
colours. 

Russia,  green  and  white  are  the  royal 
colours. 

To  mount  the  cockade.  To  become  a 
soldier.  From  time  immemorial  the 
partisans  of  different  leaders  have  adopted 
some  emblem  to  show  their  party ;  in 
1767  an  authoritative  regulation  deter- 
mined that  every  French  soldier  should 
wear  a  white  cockade,  and  in  1782  the 
badge  was  restricted  to  the  military. 
The  phrase  given  above  is  common  both 
to  England  and  France. 

Cockaigne  {Land  of).  An  imagine 
ary  land  of  idleness  and  luxury.  The 
subject  of  a  burlesque,  probably  "  the 
earliest  specimen  of  EngHsh  poetry  which 
we  possess."  London  is  generally  so 
called,  but  Boileau  applies  the  phrase 
to  Paris.  {See  page  270,  col.  2,  Cockney.) 

Allied  to  the  German,  kuchen,  a  cake. 
Scotland  is  called  the  "  land  of  cakes  " ; 
there  is  the  old  French  word  eocaigne, 
abundance.  Compare  Jjoiin  coquo,  to 
cook,  cocpnnaria,  coeiuina,  etc. 

V  Ellis,  in  his  Specimens  of  Earlg 
English  Facts  (i.  83-95),  has  printed  at 
length  an  old  French  poem  called  "The 
Land  of  Cockaigu"  (thirteenth  century), 
where  "  the  houses  were  made  of  barley 
sugar  and  cakes,  the  streets  were  paved 
with  pastry,  and  the  shops  suiJi^lied 
goods  for  nothing." 

Cock'atrice  (3  syl.).  A  monster  with 
the  wings  of  a  fowl,  tail  of  a  dragon, 


Cocked  Hat 


270 


Cockney 


aud  head  of  a  cock.  So  called  because 
it  was  said  to  be  produced  fx-orn  a  cock's 
egg  hatched  by  a  sei-jDeut.  According  to 
legend,  the  very  look  of  this  monster 
would  cause  instant  death.  In  conse- 
quence of  the  crest  with  which  the  head 
is  crowned,  the  creature  is  called  a 
basilisk,  from  the  Greek,  basiUfikos  (a 
little  king).  Isaiah  says,  "The  weaned 
child  shall  -put  his  hand  on  the  cocka- 
trice den"  (xi.  8),  to  signify  that  the 
most  noxious  animal  should  not  hurt  the 
most  feeble  of  God's  creatures. 

Figuratively,  it  means  an  insidious, 
treacherous  person  bent  on  mischief. 

"  Tliey  will  kill  one  anotber  by  tbe  look,  like 
cockatrices,  "—,V/i(r/.-esj3Cttre ;  Twelfth  Kiylit,  iii.  i. 

Cocked  Hat  (A).  A  hat  with  the 
brim  turned,  like  that  of  a  bishop,  dean, 
etc.  It  is  also  applied  to  the  chapcan 
hraf!,  aud  the  military  full-dress  hat, 
pointed  before  and  behind,  and  risiug 
to  a  point  at  the  crown,  the  chapeau  a 
coniK.  "  Cock  "  in  this  phrase  means  to 
turn ;  coi-hed^  turned  up. 

Knocked  into  a  cocked  hat.  In  tlie 
game  of  nine-pins,  three  pins  were  set 
up  in  the  form  of  a  triangle,  and  when 
all  the  pins  except  these  three  were 
knocked  down,  the  set  was  technically 
said  to  be  "  knocked  into  a  cocked  hat." 
Hence,  utterly  out  of  all  shape  or 
plumb.  A  somewhat  similar  i^hrase  is 
"  Knocked  into  the  middle  of  next 
week." 

Cocked-hat  Club  {Tin).  A  club  of 
the  Society  of  Antiquaries.  A  cocked 
hat  was  always  placed  before  the  presi- 
dent when  the  club  met. 

There  was  another  club  so  called  in 
which  the  members,  during  club  sittings, 
wore  cocked  hats. 

Cocker.  According  to  Cocker.  All 
rh/ht,  according  to  Cocker.  According 
to  established  rules,  according  to  what  is 
correct.  Edward  Cocker  (1631-1G77)  pub- 
lished an  arithmetic  which  ran  through 
sixty  editions.  The  phrase,  "According 
to  Cocker,"  was  popularised  by  Murphy 
in  his  farce  called  The  Appretitice. 

Cockle  or  Cocky.  Bumptious,  over- 
bearing, conceited,  and  dogmatical ;  like 
a  little  bantam  cock. 

Cockle  Hat.  A  ]iilgrim's  hat.  War- 
burton  says,  as  the  chief  places  of  devo- 
tion were  beyond  sea,  or  on  the  coasts, 
pilgrims  used  to  put  cockle-shells  upon 
their  hats,  to  indicate  that  they  were 
pilgrims.      Cockles  are  symbols  of  St. 


James,  patron  saint  of  Spain.     Cockle  = 
scallop,  as  in  heraldry. 

"  And  liow  sball  I  your  true  love  kuow 
From  many  anotlier  one  ? 
Oil,  liy  Lis  cockle  hat  aud  staff, 
And  by  bis  sandal  sboon." 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher :  The  Friar  of  Orders  Grey. 

Cockle  Shells.  Favourite  tokens 
worn  by  pilgrims  in  their  hats.  The 
polished  side  of  the  shell  was  scratched 
with  some  rude  drawing  of  the  "  blessed 
Virgin,"  the  Crucifixion,  or  some  other 
suV)ject  connected  with  the  pilgrimage. 
Being  blessed  by  the  priest,  they  were 
considered  amulets  against  spiritual 
foes,  and  might  be  used  as  drinking 
vessels. 

Cockles.  To  cry  cockles.  To  be 
hanged  ;  from  the  gurgling  noise  made 
in  strangulation. 

Cockles  of  the  Heart.  "  To  irarm 
the  cockles  of  one^s  heart,^^  said  of  good 
wine.  (Latin,  cochlece  cordis,  the  ven- 
tricles of  the  heart.) 

"  Fibrje  (luidem  rectis  bisce  exterioribus  in 
dextro  ventriculo  iiroxinie  subjecta;  oblinue  dex- 
trorsum  ascendeiites  in  basini  cordis  terniinantur, 
et  ppirali  suo  anibitu  belicein  sive  cochleam  satis 
aiite  referunt."— ioicer;  Tntctaius  de  Corde,  y.  25. 
(liiiiu.) 

Cockledemoy  {A).  An  amusing 
rogue,  a  sort  of  Tyll  Eulenspiegel.  A 
character  in  Marston's  comedy  of  The 
Dutch  Courtesan.  He  cheats  Mrs.  Mulli- 
grub,  a  vintner's  wife,  of  a  goblet  aud 
salmon. 

Cockney.  One  born  within  sound  of 
Bow-bells,  London  ;  one  jDossessing 
London  peculiarities  of  s^Deech,  etc. ; 
one  wliolly  ignorant  of  country  sports, 
country  life,  farm  animals,  plants,  and 
so  on. 

Camden  says  the  Thames  was  once 
called  "  the  Cockney." 

The  word  has  been  spelt  Cockeney, 
Cockaneys,  CockncU,  etc.  "  Cocknell  " 
would  be  a  little  cock.  "  Taer  in  dcliciis 
inatris  nutritus,^'  Anglice,  a  kokenay,  a 
pampered  chUd.  "  Niais "  means  a 
uestling,  as  faticon  niais,  and  if  this  is  the 
last  syllable  of  "Cockney,"  it  confirms 
the  idea  that  the  word  means  an  enfant 
gate. 

Wedgwood  suggests  cocker  (to  fondle), 
and  says  a  cockemey  or  cockney  is  one 
fiampered  by  city  indulgence,  in  contra- 
distinction to  rustics  hardened  by  out- 
door work.  (Dutch,  kokeln,  to  pami^er  ; 
French,  coqueliner,  to  dangle.) 

Chambers  in  his  Journal  derives 
the  word  from  a  French  poem  of  the 
thirteenth  century,  called  The  Laud  of 
Cocagne,  where  the  houses  were  made 
of  barley-sugar  and  cakes,  the  streets 


Cockney  School 


271 


Coffee 


paved  with  pastiy,  and  the  shops  sup- 
plied goods  without  requiring  money  in 
payment.  The  French,  at  a  very  early 
period,  called  the  English  cocagiie  men, 
i.e.  honsvivants  (beef  and  pudding  men). 
"  Cry  to  it,  nuncle,  as  the  cockney  did  to  the 
eels,  when  she  put  them  into  the  iiaste  alive."— 
Sliakcspeure :  Lear,  ii.  4. 

The  king  of  cockneys.  A  master  of  the 
revels  chosen  by  students  of  Lincoln's 
Inn  on  Childermas  Day  (Dec.  28th). 

Cockney  School.  Leigh  Hunt, 
Hazlitt,  Shelley,  and  Keats  ;  so  called 
by  Lockhart.     (1817.) 

"  If  I  may  lie  iievmitted  to  have  the  honour  of 
christening  it,  it  may  be  henceforth  referred 
to  by  the  desitrnation  of  the  '  Cockney  School.' " 
—Z.,  Blackwood's  Matjiizhie,  Oct.,  1«17. 

Cockpit  of  Europe.  Belgium  is  so 
called  because  it  has  been  the  site  of 
more  European  battles  than  any  other 
country  ;  for  example,  Oudenarde, 
Ramillies,  Fonteuoy,  Fleurus,  Jem- 
mapes,  Ligiiy,  Quatre  Bras,  Waterloo. 

Cockshy  {A).  A  free  fling  or  "shy  " 
at  something.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
once  popular  Shrove-Tuesday  sport  of 
shyiug  or  casting  stones  or  sticks  at 
cocks.  This  sport  is  now  sujierseded  by 
pigeon-shooting,  which  is  thought  to  be 
more  aristocratic !  but  can  hardly  be 
deemed  more  humane. 

Cockswain,  or  Coxswain  [cox'/i]. 
The  swain  or  servant  of  the  cock  or  boat, 
together  with  its  crew.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
sin/n  or  swcin,  a  youth  or  servant,  and 
cock,  a  boat.)     {See  Cockboat.) 

Cocktail.  The  JVew  York  JFor/d,  1891, 
tells  us  that  this  is  an  Aztec  word,  and 
that  "the  liquor  was  discovered  by  a 
Toltec  noble,  who  sent  it  to  the  king  by 
the  hand  of  his  daughter  Xochitl.  The 
king  fell  in  love  with  the  maiden,  drank 
the  liquor,  and  called  them  xoc-tl,  a 
name  perpetuated  by  the  word  cocktail. 
V  Cocktail  is  an  iced  drink  made  of 
spirits  mixed  with  bitters,  sugar,  and 
some  aromatic  flavouring.  Champagne 
cocktail  is  champagne  flavoured  with 
Angostura  bitters  ;  soda  cocktail  is  soda- 
water,  sugar,  and  bitters. 

"  Did  ye  iver  try  a  brandy  cocktail,  Cornel  ?"— 
Thackcraii :  The  Ncwcovies,  xiii. 

Cocqcigrues.  Ai  the  coming  of  (he 
Cocqcigrues.  That  good  time  coming, 
when  every  mystery  shall  be  cleared  up, 

'"That  is  one  of  the  seven  thinss,'  said  the  fairy 
Bedouehyasyoudid,  '  I  am  forbidden  to  tell  till 
the  coming  of  the  Cocijcigrues.' "- C.  Kingslcy : 
The  Water  Babies,  chap.  vi. 

Cocy'tus  [E'o-kg'tii.i\.  One  of  the 
five  rivers  of  hell.  The  word  means  the 
"river  of  lamentation."    The  unburied 


were  doomed  to  wander  about  its  banks 
for  100  years.    (Greek,  kdku'o,  to  weep.) 

"Cocytus,  named  of  lamentation  loud 
Heard  on  the  rueful  stream." 

Milton  :  Paradise  Lost,  ii.  579. 

Codds.  Codgers.  Thackeray  says^ 
"The  Cistercian  lads  call  the  poor 
brethren  of  the  Charterhouse  codds,^' 
adding,  "  but  I  know  not  wherefore." 
(Turkish,  kodjah,  an  old  man  or  woman.) 
We  say  "  Well,  old  boy,"  without  re- 
ferring to  age. 

"  I  say,  do  you  know  any  of  the  old  codds  .  .  .  ? 
Colonel  Newcome  is  going  to  be  a  a)AA."— Nine- 
teenth Century,  October,  1SU3,  p.  589. 

Codille  (2  syl.).  Triumph.  A  term 
in  the  game  of  Ombre.  When  one  of 
the  two  opponents  of  Ombre  has  more 
tricks  tlian  Ombre,  he  is  said  to  have 
won  Codille,  and  takes  all  the  stake  that 
Ombre  played  for.  Thus  Belinda  is  said, 
in  the  Rape  of  the  Lock,  to  have  been 
"  between  the  jaws  of  ruin  and  Codille." 
She  wins  with  the  "  king  of  hearts," 
and  she  wins  codille. 

Codlin's  your  Friend,  not  Short. 

{Dickens :  Old  Ciiriositg  Shop,  chap, 
xix.).  Codlin  had  a  shrewd  suspicion 
that  httle  Nell  and  her  grandfather  had 
absconded,  and  that  a  reward  would  be 
offered  for  their  discovery.  So  he  tried 
to  bespeak  the  goodwill  of  the  little  girl 
in  the  hope  of  making  something  of  it. 

"None  of  the  speakers  has  much  to  say  in 
actual  hostility  to  Lord  Salisbury's  speech,  but 
they  all  harp  upon  the  theory  that  Codlin  is  the 
friend,  not  Short." — Newspaper  paragraph,  Oct. 
nth,  1885. 

Coehorns  (2  syl.).  Small  howitzers 
of  about  4 1  inches  calibre  ;  so  called 
from  Baron  van  Coe'horn,  of  Holland. 

Coe'nobites  or  Cenohites  (3  syl.). 
Monks  who  live  in  common,  in  contra- 
distinction to  the  hennits  or  anchorites. 
(Greek,  koinnsbios.) 

Cceur  de  Lion. 

Richard  I.  of  England  ;  so  called  from 
the  jjrodigies  of  personal  valour  per- 
formed by  him  in  the  Holy  Land.  (1157, 
1189-1199.) 

Louis  VIII.  of  France,  more  frequently 
called  Le  Lion.     (1187,  1'223-1226.) 

Boleslas  I.  of  Poland,  also  called  "The 
Intrepid."     (960,  992-1025.) 

Coffee.  The  Turkish  word  is  Kauhi, 
Kaiivch  or  Kauvcg. 

Coffee.  In  Ardennes  ten  cups  of  coffee 
are  taken  after  dinner,  and  each  cup  has 
its  special  name.  (1)  Cafe,  (2)  Gloria, 
(3)  Pousse  Cafe,  (-i)  Goutte,  (5)  Re- 
goutte,  (6)  Sur-goutte,  (7)  Rincette,  (8) 
Re-rincette,  (9)  Sur-rincette,  and  (10) 
Coup  de  r^trier. 


Coffin 


272 


Coins 


Gloria  is  coffee  with  a  small  glass  of 
brandy  iu  lieu  of  milk  ;  all  the  following 
have  more  and  more  I'eau  de  vie  ;  and 
the  last  is  the  "  stiiTup-cup." 

Coffin.  A  raised  crust,  like  the  lid 
of  a  basket.  Hence  Shakespeare  speaks 
of  a  "custard  coffin"  {Taniing  of  the 
Shrew,  iv.  3).  (Greek,  koph'uios,  a 
basket.)     {See  Mahomet's  Coffin.) 

"  Of  rbe  paste  a  coffiii  will  I  rear. ' 

Hhaliespeare :  Titus  Aiiciro)iicits,  v.  2. 

Cog'geshall.  A  Coc/geshalljob.  The 
saying  is,  that  the  Coggeshall  folk 
wanted  to  divert  the  current  of  a 
stream,  and  fi.xed  hurdles  in  the  bed  of 
it  for  the  purpose.  Another  tale  is  that 
a  mad  dog  bit  a  wheelbarrow,  and  the 
people,  fearing  it  would  go  mad,  chained 
it  up  in  a  shed.     {See  Gotham.) 

Cogito,  ergo  sum.  Descartes'  axiom. 
This  is  a  petiliu  priacijjii.  '"I  think" 
can  only  j)rove  this:  that  "I  think." 
And  he  might  j  ust  as  well  infer  from  it 
the  existence  of  tlioiiffht  as  the  existence 
of  /.  He  is  asked  to  prove  the  latter, 
and  immediately  assumes  that  it  exists 
and  does  something,  and  then  infers  that 
it  exists  because  it  does  something.  Suji- 
pose  I  were  asked  to  prove  the  existence 
of  ice,  and  were  to  say,  ice  is  cold, 
therefoi'e  there  is  such  a  thing  as  ice. 
Mauifestly  I  first  assume  there  is  such  a 
thing  as  ice,  then  ascribe  to  it  an  attri- 
bute, and  then  argue  back  that  this 
attribute  is  the  outcome  of  ice.  This  is 
not  proof,  but  simjjly  arguing  in  a  cii'cle. 

Cohens  (Stock  Exchange  term).  The 
Turkish  '69  loan,  floated  by  the  firm  of 
that  name. 

Coif  (1  syl.).  The  coif  of  the  old 
serjeant-at-law  was  a  "  relic  of  his 
ecclesiastical  character.  The  original 
serjcaiits-at-laio  were  clerical  lawyers, 
and  the  coif  is  the  representatiou  of  the 
tonsure. 

Seijecaifs  of  the  Coif.  Serjeants-at- 
law  (now  abolished).     {See  above.) 

Coiffe.  //  est  ne  co'iffe.  He  is  born 
with  a  silver  spoon  in  his  mouth ;  born 
to  fortune.  {See  page  229,  col.  2,  Caul.) 
"  Quelijues  enfans  vieunent  au  nioude  avec  uiie 
liellicule  .  .  .  que  Ton  appelle  du  nom  de  ciii'ffe  ; 
ct  que  Ton  ci'oit  estre  une  marque  de  liouheur. 
Ce  qui  a  donne  lieu  au  proverbe  frangois.  .  .  .  II 
est  ne  coeffe."—Traite  des  Superstition,  1G79. 

Coiffer  to  Sainte  Catherine.     To 

remain  an  old  maid.  "  St.  Catherine  est 
la  patrouue  des  filles  a  marier  et  des 
vieilles  filles.  Ce  sout  ces  deruieres  qui 
restent  ordinau-ement  pour  soiguer  les 
chapelles  consacrees  a  la  sainte,  et  qui 
sent  chargees  de  sa  toilette."     {Hetaire 


le  Gal :  EncycJopedic  des  Proverbes  Fran- 
^ais.) 

"  II  crois  peut-ctre  que  je  le  rosrette,  que,  de 
dOsespuii-  je  vais  coiffer  St.  CatUeriue.  All  !  all  ! 
luais  non  !  moi  aussi  je  veu.x  lue  marier."— ia 
Mascotte  (an  opera). 

Coin.  Paid  in  his  oivn  coin.  Tit  for 
tat.     ' '  Far  pari  refcrre. ' ' 

Coin  Money  {Fv).  To  make  mouej^ 
with  rapidity  and  ease. 

"F<n-tVie  last  four  years  ...  I  literally  coined 
inouey."— J".  Kemble :  llesidence  in  Gcoryia. 

Coins. 

BiiiTiSH.  Iron  rings  were  used  for 
money  by  the  ancient  Britons,  and 
Segonax,  a  petty  king  under  Cassivelan, 
is  the  first  whose  head  was  im^jressed  on 
the  coin.  Gold,  silver,  and  copper  coins 
were  struck  by  Cuuobelin. 

The  Romans  introduced  their  own 
coins  into  the  island. 

The  oldest  Anglo-Saxon  coin  was  the 
sceatta  (pi.  sceattcr),  sixth  century.  In 
the  reign  of  Ethelbert,  King  of  Kent, 
money  accounts  Avere  kept  in  pounds, 
mancHses,  sJtillings,  and  pence.  One  of 
the  last  being  equal  to  about  3  pence 
of  our  money.  5  pence  rr  one  scilling,  30 
scillings  one  manca  or  maucus,  and  40 
one  pound.  Mancuses  were  ui  gold  and 
silver  also. 

The  Normans  introduced  pence  with 
a  cross  so  deeply  impressed  that  the  coin 
could  be  broken  either  into  two  or  four 
imrts,  hence  the  terms  half-i3cnce  and 
fourthings. 

The  Anr/cl,  a  gold  coin  (7s.  Cd.),  was 
introduced  by  Edward  IV.,  and  .had  a 
figure  of  Michael  slaying  the  dragon. 

The  Bawbee  first  came  into  use  in  the 
reign  of  James  VI.  of  Scotland.  (French, 
bas-billon,  base  copper  coin.) 

The  Carolas  (20s.)  was  a  gold  coin  of 
the  reign  of  Charles  I. 

The  Crown  (os.)  was  first  issued  in 
15.53.  Crowns  and  half-crowns  are  still 
in  common  circulation. 

English  Follars  (4s.  Gd.)  were  intro- 
duced in  1798. 

Florins,  a  gold  coin  (6s.),  were  issued 
by  Edward  III.  ;  but  the  silver  florin 
(2s.)  in  1849. 

The  Guinea  (a  gold  coin  ::=  21s.)  was 
first  issued  in  1 717 ;  but  a  gold  coin 
so-called,  of  the  value  of  30s.,  was 
issued  in  1673,  reduced  in  1696  to  22s.- 

Our  Sovereit/n  was  first  issued  iu  1816, 
but  there  were  coins  so  called  in  the 
reigns  of  Henry  I.  (worth  22s.),  Edward 
VI.  (from  24s.  to  30s.). 

ShiUlnc/s  of  the  present  value  date 
from  1503 ;   pence  made  of  bronze  in 


Coke 


273 


Colin  Tampon 


1862,  but  copper  pence  were  coined  in 
16'20,  half -pence  and  farthings  in  10(55. 

Coke.  To  cry  colcc.  To  cry  pecca'vi ; 
to  ask  for  mercy.  Ruddinian  says 
*'  coke  "  is  the  sound  ■which  cocks  utter 
wlieu  they  are  beaten. 

Coke  upon  Littleton.  Tent  and 
brandy. 

"Aniitlior  .  .  .  sipping  Coke  upon  Littletou,  ?'.e. 
t(^iit  M  ml  liraudy." — Xicliols ;  Illustrutious  of  Liter- 
ature iiu:;). 

Col'bronde  or  Colbrand.    The  Danish 
giant  slain  by  Sir  Guy  of  Warwick.     By 
the   death  of  this  giant   the   land  was 
delivered  from  Danish  tribute. 
"  I  am  not  Sapison,  nor  Sir  Guy,  nor  Colbrand, 
To  mow  'em  <lown  before  me. 

t^halicspcare  :  Henry  VIII.,  v.  4. 

Colcannon.  Potatoes  and  cabbage 
pounded  together  and  then  fried  in 
butter  (Irish).  "Col"  is  cole  or  cale, 
i.e.  cabbage. 

"  About  1774  Isaac  Sparks,  the  Irish  comedian, 
founded  iu  Long  Acre  a  Colcannon  Club."— T/ic 
Atlicncrum,  January  a)th,  1875. 

Cold  as  Charity.     (Sec  Charity.) 

Cold-Bath  Fields.  So  called  from 
the  cold  baths  established  there  by  Mr. 
Baius,  in  1697,  foi'  the  cure  of  rheu- 
matism, convulsions,  and  other  nervous 
cUsorders. 

Cold  Blood.  Do>/p  in  cold  bhml. 
(French,  saiifj  froid.)  Not  in  the  heat 
of  temper;  deliberately,  and  witli  pre- 
meditation. '  The  allusion  is  to  tlie 
ancient  notion  that  the  blood  grew  liot 
and  cold,  and  this  difference  of  tempera- 
ture ruled  the  temper. 

Cold-blooded  Animals.  As  a  rule, 
all  invertebrate  animals,  and  all  fishes 
and  reptiles,  are  called  cold-blooded, 
because  the  temperature  of  their  blood 
is  about  equal  to  the  medium  iu  which 
they  live. 

Cold-blooded  Persons.  Those  not 
easilj'  excited  ;  those  whose  passions  are 
not  easily  roused  ;  those  whose  circula- 
tion is  sluggish. 

Cold-chisel  {A).  A  chisel  of  tem- 
pered steel  for  cutting  cold  metal. 

Cold  Drawn  Oil.  Castor  oil,  ob- 
tained by  pressure  in  the  cold. 

Cold  Pigeon  (A).  A  me.s.sage  sent 
in  place  of  a  love-letter.  The  love- 
letter  would  have  been  a  poulet  {q.v.). 
A  pigeon  pie  is  called  a  dove-tart,  and 
dove  is  sj^mbolical  of  love.  Pyramus 
says  of  Thisbe,  "  What  dead,  mj^  iove  r  " 
A  verbal  message  is  "cold  comfort"  to 
a  lover  looking  out  for  a  letter. 

18 


Cold    Pudding    settles    Love    by 

giving  the  pains   of  indigestion,    colic, 
etc. 

Cold  Shoulder.  To  show  or  give  one 
the  cold  sl(0i<ldcr  is  to  assume  a  distant 
manner  towards  a  person,  to  indicate 
that  you  wish  to  cut  his  acquaintance. 
The  reference  is  to  a  cold  shoulder  of 
mutton  served  to  a  stranger  at  dinner  ; 
there  is  not  much  of  it,  and  even  what 
is  left  is  but  moderate  fare. 

Cold  Steel.  The  persi/asioii  of  cold 
sfccl  is  persuasion  enforced  at  the  point 
of  the  sword  or  bayonet. 

Cold  Water  Ordeal.  An  ancient 
method  of  testing  the  guilt  or  innocence 
of  the  common  sort  of  jDcople.  The 
accused,  being  tied  under  the  arms,  was 
thrown  into  a  river.  If  he  sank  to  the 
bottom,  he  was  held  to  be  guiltless,  and 
drawn  up  by  the  cord  ;  but  if  he  floated, 
the  water  rejected  him,  because  of  his 
guilt. 

Cold  Without.  An  elliptical  expres- 
sion, meaning  spirits  mixed  with  cold 
water  without  sugar. 

Coldbrand.     {Sec  Colbkonde.) 

Coldstream  Guards.  One  of  tlie 
three  regiments  of  Foot  Guards.  It  was 
originally  under  the  command  of  Colonel 
Monk  (16.50-1660),  andiu  January,  1660, 
marclied  under  him  from  Coldstream  iu 
Berwicksliire  with  the  object  of  bringing 
back  Charles  II.  to  the  throne. 

Cole  =  money.     {See  Coal.) 

Cole  {King).  A  legendary  British 
king,  described  as  "a  merry  old  soul" 
fond  of  his  pipe,  fond  of  his  glass,  and 
fond  of  his  "fiddlers  three."  (Kg. 
Coil,  i.) 

Colemi'ra  (3  syl.).  A  poetical  name 
for  a  cook  ;  being,  of  coiu-se,  comiDounded 
of  coal  and  mire. 

"  '  Could  I,'  he  cried, '  express  how  bright  a  prrace 
Adorns  thy  morning  hands  and  veil- washed 

face. 
Thou  wouldst,  Colemira,  grant  what  I  implore. 
And  yield  me  love,  or  wash  thy  face  no  more.' ' 
Slieustone :  Colemira,  etn  Eetogue.  ' 

Colin  Clout.  A  name  which  Spenser 
assumes  in  The  Shepherd's  Calendar, 
and  in  the  pastoral  entitled  Colin  Clout's 
Come  Home  Again,  which  represents  his 
return  from  a  visit  to  Sir  Walter  Raleigh, 
"  the  Shepherd  of  the  Ocean." 

Colin  Tampon.  The  nickname  of 
a  Swiss,  as  John  Bull  is  of  an  English- 
man, Brother  Jonathan  of  a  North 
American,  and  Monsieur  Crapaud  of  a 
Frenchman. 


Collapse 


274 


College  Colours 


Collapse.  The  scheme  collapsed.  Came 
to  uothiug.  An  inflated  balloon  is  said 
to  collapse  when  the  gas  has  escaped 
and  the  sides  fall  together,  or  pucker 
into  wrinkles.  As  a  collapsed  balloon 
will  not  mount,  a  collapsed  scheme  will 
not  go  off.  (Latin,  coUapsus,  col/abor, 
to  fall  or  sink  together.) 

Collar. 

Amtbist  the  collar.  Somewhat  fa- 
tiguing. When  a  horse  travels  up-hill 
the  collar  distresses  his  neck,  so  foot- 
travellers  often  find  the  last  mile  or  so 
"  against  the  collar,"  or  distressing. 
Authors  of  long  books  often  find  the 
last  few  pages  wearisome  and  against 
the  grain. 

In  collar.  In  harness.  The  allusion 
is  to  a  horse's  collar,  which  is  put  on 
when  about  to  go  to  work. 

Out  of  collar.  Out  of  work,  out  of 
place.     {See  above.) 

To  slip  the  collar.  To  escape  from 
restraint ;  to  draw  back  from  a  task 
begun. 

To  icork  np  to  the  collar.  To  work 
tooth  and  nail ;  not  to  shirk  the  work 
in  hand.  A  horse  that  lets  his  collar 
lie  loose  on  his  neck  without  bearing  on  it 
does  not  draw  the  vehicle  at  all,  but 
leaves  another  to  do  the  real  work. 

"  \s  reBarded  himself,  tlie  i>atli  toy  iilain.  He 
must  work  up  to  the  collar,  hot  and  hard,  leaving; 
himself  no  time  to  feel  the  parts  that  were  galled 
and  wrung."— J/rs.  Eduardes:  A  Girtoii  (inl, 
chap.  iv. 

Collar  (verb).  To  collar  one.  To 
seize  by  the  collar ;  to  prig ;  to  appro- 
priate without  leave. 

'To  collar  the  cole  or  coal.  To  prig  the 
money.     {See  Coal.) 

Collar-day  (A).  In  royal  levees, 
means  that  attendants  are  to  wear  all 
their  insignia  and  decorations,  such  as 
medals,  stars,  ribbons,  and  orders.  This 
is  done  on  grand  occasions  by  order  of 
the  Crown.  The  Queen's  Collar-day  is 
when  she  wears  the  Order  of  the 
Garter. 

Collar  of  Arsinoe  (4  syl. )  or  Collar 
of  Alplicsihea,  given  by  her  to  her  hus- 
band Akmeou,  was  a  fatal  gift ;  so  was 
the  collar  and  veil  of  Eriph'yle,  wife  of 
Amphiaraos.     {Sec  Fatal  Gifts.) 

Collar  of  SS.  A  decoration  re- 
stricted to  the  Lord  Chief  Justices  of 
the  Queen's  Bench,  the  Lord  Chief 
Baron  of  the  Exchequer,  the  Lord  Mayor 
of  London,  the  Kings-of-Amis,  the 
Heralds,  the  Sergeant  -  at  -  Anns,  and 
the  Sergeant  Trumpeter.  {Coiman's 
Heraldry.)     {See  SS.) 


Collectivists.  Collectivism  is  the 
opposite  of  Individualism.  In  the  latter 
system,  everyone  is  to  be  his  own 
master,  and  everything  is  to  be  free 
and  in  common.  In  the  fonner  system, 
government  is  to  be  the  sole  employer, 
the  sole  landlord,  and  the  sole  pay- 
master. Private  property  is  to  be  abol- 
ished, competition  to  be  stamped  out ; 
everyone  must  work  for  his  living,  and 
the  State  must  find  the  work.  Bellamy's 
novel  of  Lookhiij  Bacliranl  will  give  a 
pretty  fair  notion  of  what  is  meant  by 
Collectivism.     {Sec  Individualists.) 

College  (Tf?r).  Newgate  prison.  "To 
take  one's  final  degree  at  New  College" 
is  to  be  hanged.  "Iving's  College"  is 
King's  Bench  Prison,  now  called  Queen's 
College.  Prisoners  are  "  collegiates." 
College  is  the  Latin  collcfiium,  and  has 
a  very  wide  range,  as,  College  of  the 
Apostles,  College  of  Physicians,  College 
of  Surgeons,  Heralds'  College,  College 
of  Justice,  etc.  ;  and  on  the  Continent 
we  have  College  of  Foreign  Affairs,  Col- 
lege of  Wai-,  College  of  Cardinals,  etc. 

College  Colours. 

CambeidctE  Boat  Ceews,  light  blue. 

Cuius,  light  Wueand  hlack. 

Viitlnrhies,  blue  and  white. 

Clirisl'.-:,  ciimmcu  hhie. 

Clare,  black  and  golden  yellow. 

('(iri/iis,  cherry-ccilour  and  white. 

lloiriiiini,  chocolate. 

fJmiiimKiel,  cherry-colour  and  dark  blue 

J<  ,s-»s,  red  and  black. 

Jiilni'f,  bright  red  and  white. 

/wHi/'s,  violet. 

Ma(j(hilen,  indigo  and  lavender. 

Pimhroke.  claret  and  French  grey. 

Pttcrhouxe,  dark  blue  and  white. 

Qtuin'f.  green  and  white. 

.Si/fOii  '/,red  and  blue. 

fnnifii,  dark  blue. 

Tiitiiti/  Hall,  black  and  white. 

Oxford  Boat  Ceews,  dark  blue, 

W  yl/6o.»'s,  blue  with  arrnw-head. 

liaUiol,  pink,  white,  Idue,  white,  pink. 

B9-(.reHose,  black,  and  gold  edges 

Christ  Church,  blue  with  red  cardinal  s  hat 

Corpus,  red  with  blue  stripe. 

,s7  Eilmond'f,  red,  and  yellow  edges 

Krrirr,  black,  and  red  edges. 

Jeans,  szreen,  ami  white  edges 

.Jolni's  vellow,  black,  red. 

Line, .In.  blue  with  mitre. 

Minnlnlrn.  black  and  white. 

,ST  .1/.ni/-,s-,  white,  black,  white. 

Vrrtnn  '  blue,  with  white  edges  an<I  red  cross. 

.Y(H-  Ciillerw,  three  pink  and  two  white  stripes. 

Oriel,  blue  and  white. 

J'embrnl;e.  pink,  white,  pink. 

Queens,  red,  white,  blue,  white,  Tdiie,  whUe, 

"^Tn'H/fi/,  blue,  with  double  dragon's  head, yellow 
and  green,  or  blue,  with  white  edges. 

rnifersitii.  blue,  and  yellow  edges. 

irdi'/zcm."  light  blue. 

Worcester,  blue,  white,  pink,  white,  blue. 

College  Colours  (America)  in  foot- 
ball matches,  boating,  etc. 
Jdelhcrt.  Bismarck  brown  and  purple. 
Alleghany,  cadet  blue  and  old  gold. 


College  Port 


275 


Colossus 


Amherst,  white  and  purple. 

Bates,  KariiPt. 

Iliistoii  Uiiii;  r.^iti/,  scarlet  and  white. 


Ha 


lilt 


Brnii-ii.  t.rnwii  ;(nd  white. 

Biirlitil.  imiiii-'i'  and  lilue. 

Viilifnniiii.  Iilueand  pmld. 

V.r:x.Y..  I.-ncii.lrr. 

Colhii,  >iiKci'  L-n'.v. 

Cohnnbki,  lihic  and  white. 

Cornell,  cornelian  and  white. 

Durtmouth,  dark  green. 

Dickinson,  red  and  white. 

UamiWm,  rose  pink. 

Harvard,  crinisi>n. 

Bobart,  orange  and  purple. 

Krni/o)i,  niau\'e. 

Lafaii'll''.  "hiteand  maroon. 

Mailisnti,  oiiiiiL'c  and  maroon. 

jVifhi./ati.  lilnr  and  maize. 

A'rir  ynrl.-  r„,r,  rsitii.  \iolet. 

Ohio  r,iin_rsilii,  lilue. 

Priiirrltni.  (iraiiL.'!'  ana  lilack. 

Jioissria,  r  rnhilriiniir,  cherry. 

Jiorln^l.r.  hlur  and  grey. 

Tliit,i<rs.  srarl.'t  . 

.Sirartliiii.n-,',  u'arnet. 

Siirai-ii^, .  I'liir  and  pink. 

frinilH.  while  and  green. 

Tafts,  liliie  and  hrown. 

Vnioii,  garnet. 

Univtraitii  of  Nitrllt  Carolina,  while  and  lilue. 

ofSoiilli  fVMiifiim,  red  and  Idue. 

ofPcniifVlriniia,  liliu-aud  red. 

of  the  Small,  ml  and  Idue. 

ofVermunt,  ohl  gold  and  green. 

of  Virginia,  cardinal  and  grey. 
\^assar,  pink  and  grey. 
Wesleyan,  cardinal  and  black. 
Williams,  royal  purple. 
Wooster,  old  gold. 
Tale,  hliie. 

College  Port.  The  worst  species  of 
red  wine  that  can  be  manufactured  and 
pabned  oif  upon  j'oung  men  at  college. 
(See  Widows'  Port.) 

''We  all  know  what  college  pcn-t  is  like."— 77(e 
Times. 

Col'liberts.  A  sort  of  gipsy  race  in 
Poitou,  Maine,  and  Anjou,'similar  to  the 
Caijots  of  Gascony  and  the  Caquetix  of 
Brittany.  In  feudal  times  a  collibert 
was  a  serf  partly  free,  but  bound  to 
certain  services.  (Latin,  col-libertits,  a 
fellow  freedman.) 

CoUu'thians.  A  religious  sect  which 
rose  in  the  fourth  century ;  so  called 
from  Collu'thos  of  Alexandria,  their 
founder. 

Colly  my  Cow.  A  corruption  of 
Cala'uios,  the  most  ancient  of  Spanish 
ballads.  Calainos  the  Moor  asked  a 
damsel  to  wife,  who  said  the  price  of 
winning  her  should  be  the  heads  of  the 
three  paladins  of  Charlemagne,  named 
Rinaldo,  Roland,  and  Olivier.  Calainos 
went  to  Paris  and  challenged  the  pala- 
dins. First  Sir  Baldwin,  the  youngest 
knight,  accepted  the  challenge  and  was 
overthrown  ;  then  his  uncle  Roland 
went  against  the  Moor  and  smote  him. 

CoUyrid'ians.  A  sect  of  Arabian 
Christians,  chiefly  women,  which  first 
appeared  in  373.     They  worshipped  the 


Virgin  Mary,  and  made  offerings  to  her 
in  a  twisted  cake,  called  a  coUijris. 
(Greek,  kolliira,  a  little  cake.) 

Collywobbles.  The  gripes,  usually 
accompanied  with  sundry  noises  in  the 
stomach.  These  noises  are  called  the 
"  borbarigmus."  (The  wobbling  caused 
by  a  sUght  colic.) 

Cologne.  The  three  l-'nigs  of  Cuhiffiie. 
The  three  magi,  called  Gaspar,  Melchior, 
and  Baltha'zar.  They  are  called  by 
other  naTnes,  but  those  given  are  the 
most  generally  accepted. 

Colon.  One  of  the  rabble  leaders  in 
Iliiiiiln-an  was  Noel  Perryan,  or  Ned 
Perry,  an  ostler,  who  loved  bear-baiting, 
but  was  a  very  straight-laced  Puritan  of 
low  morals. 

Col'ophon.  The  end  of  a  book.  Col'- 
ophon  was  a  city  of  lo'nia,  the  in- 
habitants of  which  were  such  excellent 
horsemen  that  they  would  turn  the  scale 
of  battle  to  the  side  on  which  they 
fought ;  hence,  the  Greek  phrase.  To 
add  a  colopho'nian,  means  "to  put  a 
finishing  stroke  to  any  matter.' '  (Slrabo.) 
In  the  early  times  of  printing,  the  state- 
ment containing  the  date,  place,  printer, 
and  edition  was  given  at  the  end  of  the 
book,  and  was  called  the  colophon. 

V  Now  called  the  "imprint." 
"The  volume  was  uninjured  .  .  .  from  title- 
page  to  colophon."— .Scoft  .•  The  Antifiaarij- 

Coloquin'tida  or  Colocynth.  Bitter- 
apple  or  colocj'nth.  (Greek,  liuhikniilhifi.) 

"The  food  that  to  him  now  is  luscious  as 
locusts,  shall  he  to  him  shm-tly  as  hitter  as  colo- 
i|uintida."— >S7iaA'c.«pcure;  Othello,  i.3. 

Coloquin'tida  (St.).  Charles  I.  was 
so  called.  He  was  bitter  as  gall  to  the 
Levellers. 

"  The  Levellers  styled  him  [Charles  I.]  an  Ahali, 
and  aColoquintida,  a  man  of  hlood.and  the  ever- 
lasting obstacle  to  peace  and  liberty." — Hnivitt: 
JJistori/  of  Enqland  i"  Charles  [.,"  chap.  vi.  p.  l'S4l. 

Colorado  (U.S.  America).  A  Spanish 
word  meaning  red,  referring  to  the  red 
hue  of  the  water  of  the  river. 

Colossal.  Gigantic.  As  a  colossal 
scheme.     {See  below.) 

Colossus  or  Colossos  (Latin,  colos- 
sus). A  giant.  The  Rhodian  Colossos 
was  a  gigantic  statue  of  brass,  12(3  feet 
high,  executed  by  Cliares.  It  is  said 
that  ships  could  pass  full  sail  under  the 
legs  of  this  statue,  but  the  notion  of  a 
striding  statue  rose  in  tire  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, and  is  due  to  Blaise  de  Vigenere, 
who  was  the  first  to  give  the  chef  d'' ccuvre 
of  Chares  this  impossi])le  position.  The 
Comte  de  Caylus  has  demonstrated  that 
the  Apollo  of  Rhodes  was  never  planted 


Colour 


276 


Colours 


at  tlic  mouth  of  the  Rhodian  port,  that 
it  was  not  a  striding  statue,  and  that 
sliips  never  passed  under  it.  Neither 
Strabo  nor  Pliny  makes  mention  of  any 
of  these  things,  thougli  both  describe  tlie 
gigantic  statue  minutely.  Philo  (the 
architect  of  Byzantium,  third  century) 
has  a  treatise  on  the  seveu  wonders  of 
the  world,  and  saj's  that  the  Colo.'-.sos 
stood  on  a  block  of  white  marble,  and 
Lucius  AmiJellius,  in  a  similar  treatise, 
says  it  stood  in  a  car.  Tickell  out-herods 
Herod  in  the  follow"uig  lines : 
"  So,  uear  proud  Rhodes,  across  the  raging  flood, 
Stupeudous  form  1  the  vast  Colossus  stood, 
While  at  one  foot  the  thronging  ga'lleys  ride, 
A  whole  hour's  sail  scarce  reached  the  farther 

side  ; 
Betwixt  his  brazen  thighs,  in  loose  array, 
Teu  thousand  streamers  on  the  billows  play." 
On  the  Prospect  of  Peui-e. 
".He   doth   bestride   the  narrow   woild 
Like  a  Colossus."    Khakespcarc :  Julius  Ctcsar,  i.  2. 

V  The  twill  Colossi  of  Ameuoishis  III., 
on  the  banks  of  the  Nile,  near  Thebes, 
are  seated.  The  statue  of  Libertj-,  New 
York,  is  colossal. 

Colour.     (See  Eank.) 

Colour,  Colours.  A  man  of  colour. 
A  negro,  oi',  more  strictly  speaking,  one 
with  negro  blood.     {>>ec  Colours.) 

"There  are  threegreat  classes;  (1)  the  pure 
whites;  c.'i  the  people  of  colour  ;  |i})  negroes  and 
iiiul;iltiics."— AV/ica/v/s;  ,«.  Doiniutjil,  i. 

Colours. 

(1)  Black: 

III  bhannrii.  sable,  signifying  prudence,  wisdom, 

and  constancy. 
In  art,  siguif.\  inu'  evil,  falsehood,  and  error. 
As  a  mo  it  ua  I II  lulmn-,  signifying  grief,  despair, 

death,    ilu  ilic  c':illii)lic  Church  violet  may  I'C 

suhstitutcd  for  bl:u-k). 
In  iiiiiiils  It  i>  rtprcseuted  by  lead. 
In  prifi''ii.<  .<h:iifs  it  is  represented  i)y  the  diamond. 
Iiipliiinls  II  >i:iii(ls  for  Saturn. 
Ill  Iwruldnj  il  is  engraved  by  perpendicular  and 

borizoulal  lines  crossing  each  other  ;it  right 

angles. 

(2)  Blue: 

In  blazonrv,  azure,  signifying  chastity,  loyalty, 

fidelity. 
In  art  (as  an  angel's  rol)e)  it  signifles  fidelity  and 

faith. 
In  ai-t  (as  the  robe  of  the  "Virgin  Mary)  it  signifles 

modesty. 
In    art   (in    the    Catholic   Church)   it   signifles 

humility  and  e.\pi:ition. 
As  a  vinrfiKirii  cnloiir  it  signifies  eternity  (applied 

to  Deity  .iiumortality  (.applied  to  m;in). 
InmetiiU  it  is  ninesentcd  liy  tin. 
In  prtrniiis  si'^iir.t  it  is  represented  by  sapphire. 
In  pliiii,'/s  It  stands  for  Jupiter. 
In  heruldnj  it  is  engraved  by  horizontal  lines. 

(3)  Green: 

In  Mn 2<w r II, yert,  signifying  love,  joy,  abundance. 
In  art,  signifying  hope,  joy,  youth,  spring  (among 

tlie  Greeks  and  Moors  it  signified  victory). 
In  church  ornaments,  signifying   God's  bounty, 

mirth,  gladness,  the  resurrection. 
In  metals  it  is  represented  by  copper. 
In  precious  stones  it  is  represented  by  the  emerald. 
In  planets  it  stands  for  Venus. 
As  a  railway  siijnal  it  means  caution,  go  slowly. 
In  heraldry  it  is  engraved  from  left  to  right. 


(4)  Purijle: 

In  bUizonrji,  purpure,  signifying  temperance. 
In  art,  siL-nifying  royalty. 
In  mi  tills  it  is  represented  by  quicksilver. 
Ill  prri-iniis  stones  it  is  represented  by  ametliyst. 
/)/  jihiiiils  it  stands  fur  Mercury. 
Ill  hi  riiiiiru  it  is  engraved  by  lines  slanting  from 
right  to  Ic-ft. 

(5)  Red: 

In  blazonry,  g\\\es  \  blood-red  is  called  sanguine. 

The  former  signifles  magnanimity,  and  the 

latter,  fortitude. 
/«  ?Hc(f(/5  it  is  represented  by  iron  (the  ii;etal  of 

war). 
In  precious  stones  it  is  represented  by  the  ruby.; 
In  planets  it  stands  for  Mars. 
In  licraldry  it  is  engraved  by  perpendicular  lines. 

(6)  White: 

In   blazonry,  argent ;  signifying   purity,   truth, 

innocence. 
/?» rtr^  priests,  JIagi,  and  Druids  are  arrayed  in 

white,    .Icsiis  after  the  resurrection  should  be 

draped  in  wliite." 
As  a  niurliiiiry  cnlniir  it  indicates  hope. 
Ill  mitiils  it  is  represented  l)y  sil\  er. 
Ill  pn  ciiiiis  stiiiirs  it  is  rc'iireseiited  liv  the  pearl. 
In  pi, mils  it  scimls  for  liian;i  or  t lie  Moon. 
In  In  raldrii  it  is  ciignn  ed  l,y  shields  left  white. 

(7)  Yellow: 

In  blazonry  or  signifying  faith,  constancy,  wis- 
dom, glory. 

In  modern  art  or  signifying  jealousy,  incon- 
stancy, incontinence.  In  France  the  doors  of 
traitors  used  to  be  daubed  with  yellow, and  in 
some  countries  Jews  were  obliged  to  dress  in 
yellow.  In  Spain  the  executioner  is  dressed 
in  rechdid  ,\ellow. 

Ill  Chri-'liiiii  .<//  .liida- is  :iri;i.\ed  in  yellow  ;  but 
St.  I'l-lel-  lsalso:,i,:,xr,|  m  L'ojilcn  yellow. 

In  iiiihils  \t  IS  r,|iir-.  Ill,  ,1  l,y  u-old. 

Ill  /)/■(  CK.i/s  .^/";(..^  II  is  I.  pr(  seiiteil  by  the  topaz. 

In  pliinits  it  stands  for  Apoilo  or  the  Sun. 

In  III riildrii  it  is  engraved  |py  dots. 

Colours  for  Church  Decoration. 

H7n7r,  for  festivals  of  our  Lord,  for  Kaster.  :ind 

for  all  saints  excejit  martyrs. 
Bed,  for  martyrs,  for  Ash   Wednesday,   the  last 

three  days  of  Hidy  Week,  and  Wliil  Sunday. 
Blue,  for  all  week-days  after  Trinity  Sunday. 
Blue  nr(j ncn,  indifferently.for  oi(lin:iry  Sundays. 
VinUt,  Ilrvirn.  or  (rrcv,  for  .Vdvent  and  Lent, 
iidic/,-,  for  Good  Friday. 

Colours  of  the  University  Boats, 
etc.    [Sec  College  Colours.) 

Colours. 

Accidental  colours.  Those  colours  seen 
on  a  white  ground  after  looking  for 
some  time  at  a  bright- coloured  object, 
like  the  sun. 

Complementary  colours.  Colours  which, 
in  combination,  produce  white  light. 

"The  colour  transmitted  is  always  comple- 
mentary to  the  one  reflected."— £ccH\s(cr:  Optics, 
xii. 

Fundamental  colours.  The  seven 
colours  of  the  spectrum:  violet,  indigo, 
blue,  green,  yellow,  orange,  and  red. 
Or  red,  yellow,  blue,  also  ca.\\%(i  primary 
or  simple  colours. 

Secondary  colours.  Those  which 
result  from  the  mixture  of  two  or  more 
primary  or  simple  colours. 

Colours.  He  teas  tvith  the  colours. 
In  active  miUtary  service. 


Colours 


277 


Colt's-tooth 


"  Tlie  iieriod  .  .  .  was  raised  fnnn  seven  to  nine 
years,  five  years  lieing  i>assed  with  the  colours, 
and  four  in  the  ren:r\e."  —  Edinbmyh  Heview 
(ISSG). 

His  coicard  lips  did  from  their  colours 
fly.  He  was  uuable  to  speak.  As 
cowards  run  away  from  their  regimeutal 
colours,  so  [CfBsar's]  li^js,  when  lie  was 
ill,  ran  away  from  their  colour  and  turned 
pale. 

To  come  out  in  his  true  colours.  To 
reveal  one's  jiroper  character,  divested 
of  all  that  is  meretricious. 

To  describe  [a  mattcr'\  in  very  black 
colours.  To  see  them  with  a  jaundiced 
eye,  and  describe  them  accordingly  ;  to 
describe  [the  matter]  under  the  bias  of 
strong  prejudice. 

To  desert  oue's  colours.  To  become  a 
turncoat ;  to  turn  taU.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  military  flag. 

Ih  gire  colour  or  To  give  some  plausible 
colour  to  the  matter.  To  render  the 
matter  more  plausible  ;  to  give  it  a  more 
specious  apxjearance. 

To  paint  in  bright  colours.  To  see 
or  describe  things  iu  couleur  de  rose.  Also 
"  to  paint  in  lively  colours." 

To  put  a  false  colour  on  a  matter.  To 
misinterpret  it,  or  put  a  false  construc- 
tion on  it. 

To  see  things  in  their  true  colours.  To 
see  them  as  they  really  are. 

Vnder  colour  of.  .  .  .  Under  pretence 
of  .... ;  under  the  alleged  authority 
of  ...  . 

IFettring  his  colours.  Taking  his  part ; 
being  strongly  attached  to  one.  The 
idea  is  from  livery. 

"  Jim  could  always  count  on  every  man,  woman, 
and  child,  wherever  he  lived,  wearing  his  colours, 
and  Iiacliing  him  .  .  .  through  thick  and  thin."— 
JJoldrcicood  :  Robbery  Under  .Irrns,  chap.  xiv. 

JTlthout  colour.  ^' In  nucld  veritate," 
without  disguise. 

Colours.    National  colours — 


Great  Britain   .. 

Jled  and  blue. 

America,  U.S.  • . 

Stars  on  blue,  u-hite  with  red 

stripes. 

Austria       . .    . . 

Bed,  white,  and  red. 

Bavaria      ..    .. 

Bed 

Denmark    . .    . . 

Bed,  with  white  crnss. 

France        ..    .. 

Blue,  white,  and  red. 

Netherlands 

Bed,  u-hite,  and  blue. 

Portugal     . .     . 

Blue  and  white. 

Prussia       . .     . . 

White. 

Russia 

Whitr,  irith  hhirrross. 

Spain    

Bed,  III  llnii-,  mill  red. 

Sweden       . .    . 

Blur,  inlli  II,  II,, 11-  cross. 

Switzerland 

Red,  icUk  irliih  rrnss. 

Colours  Nailed  to  the  Mast  ( Tilth 
our),  a  out  ranee.  If  the  colours  are 
nailed  to  the  mast,  they  cannot  be  lowered 
to  express  submission. 

"  If  tliey  catch  you  at  disadvantage,  the  mines 
for  your  life  is  the  word  ;  and  so  we  fight  them 
with  our  colours  nailed  to  the  mast."— ,S'ir  W. 
Scott :  Tlie  Pirate,  chap,  xxi. 


Colour-blindness.  Incapacity  of 
discerning  one  colotu-  from  another. 
The  term  was  introduced  by  Sir-  David 
Brewster.  It  is  of  three  sorts :  (1) 
inability  to  discern  any  colours,  so  that 
everything  is  either  black  or  white, 
shade  or  light ;  (2)  inability  to  distin- 
guish between  primary  colours,  as  red, 
blue,  and  yellow  ;  or  secondary  colours, 
as  green,  jjurple,  and  orange  ;  and  (o)  in- 
ability to  distiuguisli  between  such  com- 
posite colours  as  browns,  greys,  and 
neutral  tints.  Except  iu  this  one  respect, 
the  colour-blind  may  have  excellent 
vision. 

Colour  Sergeant.  A  sergeant  who 
carries  or  has  charge  of  the  regimental 
colours. 

Colour  (verb).  To  colour  up,  to  turn 
red  in  the  face  ;  to  blusli. 

Coloured    Frontispiece    by    Phiz 

(A).     A  blush. 

Colporteur'.  A  liawker  or  pedlar; 
so  called  because  he  cames  his  basket  or 
pack  round  his  neck.  The  term  is  more 
especially  applied  to  hawkers  of  religious 
books.  (Latin,  colltim,  the  neck ;  porto, 
to  carry.) 

Colt  (A).  A  piece  of  knotted  rope 
eighteen  inches  long  for  the  special 
benefit  of  ship  boys  ;  a  cat-o'-niue-tails. 
"  Look  alive  tliere,  lads,  or  as  sure  as  7iiy  name 
is  Sam  Weston  I'll  give  the  colt  to  the  last  man 
off  the  deck."— J.  Grant :  JJicIc  Rodney,  chap.  vii. 

Colt  (A).  A  barrister  who  attejids  a 
sergeant-at-law  at  his  induction. 

"  I  acc(mipanied  the  ne«iy-made  Chief  Baron  as 
his  colt."— Pollock. 

"Then  Mr.  Bailey, his  colt,  delivered  his  ring  to 
the  Lord  Clii':)cellor."— ll'i/iMje. 

Colt  (7.--).  To  befool,  to  gull.  (ItaUan, 
colto,  chf  i,ted,  befooled.) 

Colt-plxy  (A).  A  pixy,  puck,  or 
fairy.  To  colt-pixy  is  to  take  what 
belongs  to  the  i^ixies,  and  is  specially 
applied  to  the  gleaning  of  apples  after 
the  crop  has  been  gathered  in  ;  these 
apples  wore  the  privilege  of  the  jiixies, 
and  to  colt-pixy  is  to  deprive  the  pixies 
of  their  jierquisites. 

Colt's  Revolver.  A  iire-arm  which, 
by  means  of  revolving  barrels,  can  be 
fired  several  times  without  intermission. 
This  instrument  was  patented  by  Colonel 
Samuel  Colt,  U.S.,  in  1835. 

Colt's-tooth.  The  love  of  youthful 
pleasure.  Chaucer  uses  the  word  "  colt- 
ish "  for  skittish.  Horses  have  at  three 
years  old  the  colt's-tooth.  The  allusion 
is  to  the  colt's  teeth  of  animals,  a  period 


Columbine 


278 


Comazants 


of  their  life  when  their    passions   are 
strongest. 

"  Her  merry  danciiifr-days  are  done  ; 
She  has  a  colt's-tontU  still,  I  warrant." 
Kino  •■  Orpheus  and  Eurydice. 
"  Well  said.  Lord  Sands  ; 
Tour  colt's-tiioth  is  not  cast  vet." 

Sliah-esptare :  Ileurij  YIlI.,i.X 

Col'umbine  (3  syl.).  The  sweetheart 
of  Harlequin,  and,  like  him,  supposed 
to  be  invisible  to  mortal  eyes.  CoJiim- 
bi  na  in  Italian  is  a  pet-name  for  a  lady- 
love, and  means  a  little  dove,  a  young 
coquette. 

Columbus.     His  signature  was — 
S.  i.e.  Servidor 

>S.  A.  S.  Sus  Altezas  Sacras 

X.  M.  Y.  Jesus  Maria  Isabel 

Xto.  FERENS  Christo-pher 

El  Almirante  El  Almirante. 
In  English,  "  Servant — of  their  Sacred 
Highnesses — Jesus  Mary  and  Isabella 
— Christopher — the  Admiral." 

The  second  Cohimhus.  Cyrus  West 
Field  was  so  called  by  John  Bright  when 
he  completed  the  Atlantic  Cable.  Born 
at  Stockbridge,  Massachusetts,  1819. 

Columbus  of  the  Skies  {The).  Sir 
F.  Wilhuin  Herscliel,  discoverer  of 
Georgium  Sidus  (Uranus),  1738-1822. 

Column. 

The  Alexandrine  Column.  Made  of 
granite ;  in  memory  of  the  Empei'or 
Alexander. 

The  Column  of  Antoninus.  At  Rome  ; 
made  of  marble,  176  feet  high ;  in  memory 
of  the  Emperor  Marcus  Aurelius  Anto- 
ninus. Like  that  of  Trajan,  this  column 
is  covered  externally  with  spiral  bas- 
reliefs  representing  the  wars  carried  on 
by  the  emperor. 

Sixtus  V.  caused  the  original  statue  of  this 
column  to  lie  supplanted  by  a  llgur.e  of  St.  Paul. 
(See  Trajan's  Column.) 

The  Column  of  Arcadius.  At  Con- 
stantinople ;  made  of  marble. 

Column  at  Boulogne.  To  com- 
memorate the  camp  of  Boulogne.  This 
formidable  amiy  was  intended  for  the 
invasion  of  England.  England  also 
girded  herself  for  battle,  and  here  the 
matter  ended.  The  Column  perpetuates 
the  memory  of  tliis  threat. 

The  Duke  of  York''s  Column,  in  London, 
at  the  top  of  the  steps  leading  into  St. 
James's  Park.  Erected  in  1830-1833  in 
memory  of  Frederick,  Duke  of  York, 
second  son  of  George  III. ,  who  died  in 
1827.  It  is  of  the  Tuscan  order,  was 
designed  by  R.  Wyatt,  and  is  made  of 
Aberdeenslure  granite.  On  the  summit 
is  a  statue  of  the  duke  by  Sir  R.  West- 
macott. 


The  Column  of  July.  1832,  Paris ; 
made  of  bronze,  and  erected  on  the  spot 
Avhere  the  Bastille  stood,  to  commemo- 
rate the  revolution  of  July,  1830,  when 
Charles  X.  abdicated.  It  is  surmounted 
with  a  statue  of  Liberty  standing  on  one 
foot. 

London's  Column.     (See  Monument.) 

AW.so«'s  Column.  In  Trafalgar  Square, 
London  ;  was  erected  in  1843.  The  four 
lions,  by  Landseer,  wei-e  added  in  1867. 
The  order  of  the  Column  is  Corinthian, 
and  the  material  Devonshire  granite. 
The  reliefs  are  {iwrth  side)  the  battle  of 
the  Nile,  where  Nelson  was  wounded  ; 
{south  side)  Nelson's  death  at  the  battle 
of  Trafalgar ;  {east  side)  the  bombard- 
ment of  Copenhagen ;  and  {west  side) 
the  battle  of  St.  Vincent.  The  column 
is  sunnounted  by  a  statue  of  Nelson  by 
E.  H.  Baily. 

Co'nmn  of  the  Place  Venddme.  Paris, 
1806-1810  ;  made  of  bronze,  and  erected 
in  honour  of  Napoleon  I.  The  spiral 
outside  rejiresents  in  bas-relief  the  battles 
of  Napoleon  I.,  ending  with  Austerlitz 
in  180.3.  It  is  a  facsimile  of  Trajan's 
Column. 

In  1871  the  statue  of  Napoleon,  which 
sunnounted  this  column,  was  hurled  to 
the  ground  by  the  Communi.sts,  but  in 
1874  a  statue  of  Liberty  was  substituted 
for  the  original  one. 

Fompcifs  Column.  In  Egypt ;  made 
of  marble. 

Trajaii's  Column.  At  Rome;  made  of 
marble,  A. D.  114,  by  Apollodorus.  It  is 
132  feet  in  height,  and  has  inside  a 
spiral  staircase  of  185  steps,  and  40 
windows  to  let  in  light.  It  was  sur- 
mounted by  a  statue  of  the  Emperor 
Trajan,  but  Sixtus  V.  supplatited  the 
original  statue  by  that  of  St.  Peter.  The 
spiral  outside  represents  in  bas-reliefs 
the  battles  of  the  emperor. 

Columns  of  Hercules.  Two  large 
pyramidal  columns  set  up  by  the  Phoe- 
nicians as  lighthouses  and  landmarks, 
dedicated,  one  to  Hercules  (the  sim), 
and  the  other  to  Astnrte  (the  moon) . 

By  the  Greeks  and  Romans  the  two 
]iyramidal  mountains  at  the  Straits  of 
Gibraltar  (Calpo  and  Abyla),  the  former 
in  Europe  and  the  latter  in  Africa,  were 
tenned  the  Tillars  of  Hercules. 

Co'ma  Bereni'ces  (4  syl.).  {See 
Berenice.) 

Com'azants.  Called  St.  Elmo  fii-es 
by  the  French,  Castor  and  Pollux  by  the 
Romans.  A  celestial  light  seen  occa- 
sionally to  play  round  mast-heads,  etc. 


Comb 


279 


Come 


(Latin,  co'inn,  hair.)  Vii'gil  makes  good 
use  of  this  phenomenou  while  ^ueas  is 
hesitating  whether  to  leave  burning 
Troy  or  not : 

"  Ecce  levis  sumnio  de  vertice  visits  luli 
Fimdere  lumen  apex,  tractuiiue  iunoxia  iiio,,i 
Laiiilierefl:iiiiiiia  riinias,etcircuiii  temiioraiiasci 
Nos,  pavidi  trepidai-e  uietu,  criueuKiue  Hagran- 

teiii 
Excutere,    et    sanctos    restlnguere    foutilnis 
ignes." 

When  old  Anchises  interferes,  and  a 
falling  star  is  interpreted  to  mean  that 
Jupiter  will  lead  them  forth  securely. 
{^1^/ieid,  ii.  6S'2,  etc.) 

Coml). 

A  crabtrec  comb.  A  cudgel  applied  to 
the  head.  To  smooth  your  hair  with  a 
crahtree  comb,  is  to  give  the  head  a 
knock  with  a  stick. 

Bei/narcVs  uomkrfitl  comb.  This  comb 
existed  only  in  the  Ijraiu  of  Master  Fox. 
He  said  it  was  made  of  the  Pan'thera's 
bone,  the  perfume  of  which  was  so 
fragrant  that  no  one  could  resist  fol- 
lowing it ;  and  the  wearer  of  the  comb 
was  alwaj's  cheerful  and  merry.  {Itiy- 
nard  the  Fox,  chajj.  ii.) 

To  comb  Clicks  head.  To  humiliate  a 
person,  or  to  give  him  a  "  set  down." 

"  rU  carry  you  witli  me  U)  my  country  box,  and 
keep  you  out  of  harm's  way,  till  1  llnd  you  a  wife 
Wbi)  will  comb  your  bead  for  yoa."—Bulu:er- 
Lytton  :  What  will  he  do  icitli  it  ?  iv.  16. 

To  comb  your  noddle  icith  a  three-legged 
stool  {Taming  of  the  Shrew,  i.  1)  is  to 
beat  you  about  the  head  with  a  stool. 
Many  stools,  such  as  those  used  hj  milk- 
maids, are  still  made  with  three  legs  ; 
and  these  haudy  weapons  seem  to  have 
been  used  at  one  time  pretty  freely, 
especially  hj  angry  women. 

To  cut  one's  Comb.  To  take  down  a 
person's  conceit.  In  allusion  to  the  x^rac- 
tice  of  cutting  the  combs  of  capons. 

To  set  up  otie's  comb  is  to  be  cockish 
and  vainglorious. 

Comb  the  Cat  (To).  To  run  your 
fingers  through  the  lashes  of  a  cat-o'- 
nine-tails  to  disentangle  them. 

Come  and  take  Them.  The  reply 
of  Leon'idas,  King  of  Sparta,  to  the 
messengers  sent  by  Xerxes  to  Thermop'- 
y\se.  Xerxes  said,  "Go,  and  tell  those 
madmen  to  deliver  up  their  anns." 
Leonidas  rejjlied,  "  Go,  and  tell  Xerxes 
to  come  and  take  them." 

Come  Ather  (pron.  ah-ther)  means, 
when  addressed  to  horses, ' '  come  hither ' ' 
— i.e.  to  the  left,  the  side  on  which  the 
teamsman  walks.     {See  Woo'ish.) 

Come  Down  a  Peg.  Humiliated; 
lowered  in  dignity,  tone,  demands,  etc. 


"  Well,  be  bas  come  down  a  peg  or  two,  and  he 
don't  like  n."— Haggard. 

A  come  doivn.  Loss  of  prestige  or 
position. 

"  '  Now  I'm  your  worship's  washerwoman.'  The 

diernitary  coloured,  and  said  that '  this  was  rather 
a  come  down,'  "—Ihadc. 

Come  Down  upon  One  {To).    To 

reproach,  to  punish  severely,  to  make  a 
peremjDtory  demand. 

Come  Home.  Return  to  your  house ; 
to  touch  one's  feelings  or  interest. 

"No  poetry  was  over  more  human  than  Chau- 
cer's ;  none  ever  came  more  generally  .  .  .  home 
to  its  readers."— Greeii ;  Shvrt  History  of  the  Eiig- 
liah  People,  chap.  v. 

Come  it.  Ifas  he  come  it  ?  Has  he 
lent  the  money  'r  Has  he  hearkened  to 
your  request  'r  Has  he  come  over  to 
your  side  'r    Also,  "  Out  with  it !  " 

Come  it  Strong.  Lay  it  on  thick ; 
to  exaggerate  or  overdo.  {See  Drxw^  it 
Mild.) 

Come  Lightly.  Lightly  come,  lightly 
go.  There  is  a  somewhat  similar  Latin 
proverb,  male  pur ta,  male  ddabuntur. 

Come  Of.  Whafs  to  come  of  it? 
TJ'hat's  to  come  of  him?  A  contracted 
fonn  of  become.  To  come  of  [a  good 
stock]  is  to  be  descended  from  [a  good 
family]. 

Come  Off  {To).  To  occur,  to  take 
place.  (Anglo-Saxon,  of-caman  =  Latin, 
■pro-ccdo,  to  proceed.) 

To  come  off  with  honours  is  to  proceed 
to  the  end  successfully. 

Come  On !  A  challenge  to  fight  with 
fists. 

Come  Out.  Said  of  a  young  lady 
after  she  has  been  introduced  at  Court, 
or  has  entered  into  society  as  a  ''  gi'own- 
up"    person.       She    "comes    out    into 

society." 

Come  Over  One  {To).  To  wheedle 
one  to  do  or  give  something.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  ofer-cuman,  to  overcome.)  To 
come  over  one  is  in  reality  to  conquer  or 
get  your  own  way. 

Come  Round.     {See  ComxG,  etc.). 

Come  Short  {To).  Not  to  be  suffi- 
cient. "To  come  short  of"  means  to 
miss  or  fail  of  attaining. 

Come  That,  as,  Can  you  come  that  ? 
I can^t  come  that.  Here,  "  come"  means 
to  arrive  at,  to  accompUsh. 

Come  the  Religious  Dodge  {To) 
means  to  ask  or  seek  some  favour  under 
pretence  of  a  rehgious  motive.  Here 
"come"  means  to  come  and  introduce. 
{See  Dodge.) 


Come 


280 


Commenclain 


Come  to.  Amount  to,  to  obtain 
possession.    "It  will  not  come  to  much." 

Come  to  Grief  {To).  To  fail,  to 
prove  a  failure,  as,  "the  undertaking 
(or  comimny)  came  to  grief,"  i.e.  to  a 
grievous  end. 

Come  to  Hand  {It  hav).  Been  re- 
ceived. "Come  into  my  hand."  In 
Latin,  ad  iiiuhks  {alicKJns)  pcrriiiire. 

"  Yoiiv  letter  came  tu  baud  jcstenlay."— .1. 
Tfollopc. 

Come  to  Pass  {Tu).  To  hajipen,  to 
befall,  to  come  about. 

"  Wliat  tli'iu  hast  spoken  is  come  tu  pass."— 
Jer.  xxxii.  :;4. 

"  It  came  to  pass  [eyeVero]  iu  those  (l;iys  that 
theie  weut  out  a  decree."— Luke  ii.  1. 

Comie  to  an  End.  To  terminate. 
The  allusion  is  to  travelling,  when  the 
traveller  has  come  to  the  cud  of  his 
journey. 

Come  to  the  Hammer.  To  be  sold 
by  auction. 

Come  to  the  Heath.  To  tip.  A  pun 
taken  from  the  place  called  Tii^-tree 
Heath,  iu  Essex.  Our  forefathers,  and 
the  French  too,  delighted  in  these  sort 
tif  puns.  A  great  source  of  slang.  {Sec 
Chivy.) 

Come  to  the  Point.  Speak  out 
plauily  what  you  want ;  do  not  beat 
about  the  bush,  but  state  at  once  wliat 
you  wish  to  say.  The  point  is  the  gist 
or  grit  of  a  thing.  Circmnlocution  is 
wandering  round  the  point  witli  words  ; 
to  come  to  the  point  is  to  omit  all  need- 
less speech,  and  bring  all  the  straggling 
rays  to  a  focus  or  point. 

Come  to  the  Scratch.  {See 
Scratch.  ) 

Come  to  the  Worst.  If  the  irorst 
come  to  the  icorst ;  even  if  the  very  worst 
occurs. 

Come  Under  {To).  To  fall  under; 
to  be  classed  under. 

Come  Up.  Mcirry,  eoinc  up  !  {Sec 
Marey.)  "To  come  up  to"  means  to 
equal,  to  obtain  the  same  number  of 
marks,  to  amount  to  the  same  quantity. 

Come  Upon  the  Parish  [To).  To 
live  in  the  workliouse ;  to  be  supjiorted 
by  the  j)arish. 

Come  Yorkshire  over  One  {To). 
To  bamboozle  one,  to  overreach  one. 
Yorkshire  has  always  been  proverbial  for 
shrewdness  and  sharp  practice.  "  I's 
Yorksliire  too"  means,  I  am  'cute  as  you 
are,  and  am  not  to  be  taken  in. 


Comedy  means  a  village-song  (Greek, 
];oiiie-ode),  referring  to  the  village  merry- 
makings, in  which  comic  songs  still  take 
a  conspicuous  place.  The  Greeks  had 
certain  festal  processions  of  great  licen- 
tiousness, held  iu  honour  of  Diony'sos, 
iu  the  suburbs  of  their  cities,  and  termed 
ho' mot  or  village-revels.  On  these  occa- 
sions an  ode  was  generally  sung,  and 
this  ode  was  the  foundation  of  Greek 
comedy.     {Sec  Tragedy.) 

The  Father  of  coined ij.  Aristoph'aues, 
the  Athenian  (B.C.  444-380). 

Comes  (2  syl.).  A  Latin  military 
title,  now  called  comit  on  the  continent 
of  Europe,  but  earl  in  England  from  the 
Saxon  euddorman  (alderman),  Danish 
eorle.  Tlte  wife  of  an  earl  is  called 
countess. 

Comet  Wine.  A  term  of  praise  to 
signify  wine  of  superior  quality.  A 
notion  prevails  that  the  grapes  iu  comet 
years  are  better  in  flavour  than  in  other 
years,  either  because  the  weather  is 
warmer  and  rijiens  them  better,  or 
because  the  comets  themselves  exercise 
some  chemical  influence  on  them.  Thus, 
wine  of  the  years  1811,  1826,  1839,  1845, 
1852,  1858,  1861,  etc.,  have  a  repute. 

"  The  oldi-'cnlleman  yet  nurses  some  few  l)ottIes 
(if  tlic  famous  i-onift  year  (i.e.  IsU),  emphatically 
calk'il  comet  wine."— T/ir?  Times. 

Coming  Round.  He  is  coming 
round.  Recovering  from  sickness ;  re- 
covering from  a  fit  of  the  sulks ;  re- 
turning to  friendshijj.  Death  is  the 
end  of  lite,  and  therefore  recovering 
from  "sickness  nigh  unto  death"  is 
coming  back  to  health,  or  coming  round 
the  corner. 

Command  Night.  In  theatrical  i^ar- 
lance,  a  night  on  which  a  certain  play  is 
performed  Ijy  command  of  some  person 
of  authority  or  influence. 

Commandment.  The  eleventh  com- 
inandnient.  Thou  shalt  not  be  found 
out. 

"  After  all,  that  Eleventh  Couimandmeut  is  the 
only  one  that  is  vitally  important  to  keep  In 
these  days."— £.  H.  Buxton  :  Jennie  of  the  Prince's, 
iii.  314. 

TIic  ten  commandments.  The  ten 
fingers  or  nails.  {Shakespeare  :  2  Henry 
VI.,  i.  3.) 

Comme  il  Faut  (French,  pronounce 
cum  eel  fo),  as  it  should  be  ;  quite 
proper  ;  quite  according  to  etiquette  or 
rule. 

Commen'dam.  A  living  vi  coni' 
mcndam  is  a  living  held  by  a  bi.shop  till 
an  incumbent  is  aj^pointed.  When  a 
clergyman  accepts  a  bishopric  he  loses 
all    his    previous    preferment ;    but   in 


C  ommendation 


281 


Compeenions 


order  that  these  livings  may  not  be 
uucared  for,  they  are  vommotdal  by  the 
Crown  to  tlie  care  of  the  new  bishop  till 
they  can  be  properly  transferred.  Abol- 
ished in  1836. 

Commendation     Ninepence.       A 

beut  silver  ninepence,  supposed  to  be 
lucky,  and  commonly  used  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  as  a  love-token,  the  giver 
or  sender  using  these  words,  "  From  my 
love,  to  my  love."  Sometimes  the  coin 
was  broken,  and  each  kept  a  part. 
"  Like  cDmruendatiou  niuoiieiice,  rrimki'il, 
With  '  To  aud  from  my  Im  o,'  it,  L.ukfd." 

Butler  :  lliidihrat:,  i.  1. 
"^Filbert:  As  tbis  divides,  thus  are  we  torn  in 
twain. 
Kitty :  Aud  as  this  uieets,  thus  may  we  meet 
.igain." 

Gay:  What  d'ye  Call  It? 

Commis-voyageur  {A).  A  com- 
mercial traveller. 

Committee.  A  committee  of  the 
tcJiole  house,  in  Parliamentary  language, 
is  when  the  Speaker  leaves  the  chair  and 
all  the  members  fonn  a  committee, 
where  anyone  may  speak  once  or  more 
than  once.  In  such  cases  the  chair  is 
occupied  by  the  chairman  of  comm-l'ttees, 
elected  with  each  now  Parliament. 

A  standing  committee,  in  Parliamentary 
language,  is  a  committee  which  con- 
tinues to  the  end  of  the  current  session. 
To  this  committee  are  referred  all  ques- 
tions which  fall  witliiu  the  scope  of  their 
appointment. 

Committing  Falsehood.  Swind- 
ling. 

The  Earl  of  Rosebery  pointed  out 
that  the  expression  "  committing  false- 
hood" in  Scotch  law  was  synonymous 
with  what  in  England  was  called  swind- 
ling (April  25tli,  1885). 

Commodity  of  Brown  Paper  {A). 
Rubbish  served  as  make-weight ;  worth- 
less stock ;  goods  palmed  off  on  the 
inexijerienced.  In  most  auctions  the 
buyer  of  a  lot  has  a  fair  share  of  tlie 
commodity  of  brown  paper.  Rubbish 
given  to  supplement  a  loan. 

"  Here's  young  Master  Rash'!  lie's  iu  for  a  com- 
modity of  brown  paiierandold  ginger,  nine-score 
and  seventeen  pounds  [i.e.  £197,  a  part  of  the 
advance  being  old  ginger  and  brown  paper]."— 
ShaliCspcarc :  Measure  for  Measure,  iv.  3. 

Commodore.  A  corruption  of  "com- 
mander" (French, commaiideHr:  Spanish, 
coDuiidador).  A  naval  officer  in  tem- 
porary command  of  a  squadron  or  divi- 
sion of  a  fleet.  He  lias  the  pay  of  a 
rear-admiral. 

Common  Pleas.  Civil  actions  at 
law  brought  by  one  subject  against 
another — not  by  the  Crown   against  a 


subject.  The  Court  of  Common  Pleas  is 
for  the  trial  of  civil  [not  capital] 
offences.  In  1875  this  court  was  abol- 
ished, aud  in  1880  it  was  represented  by 
the  Common  Pleas  Division  and  merged 
in  the  King's  [or  Queen's]  Bench  Divi' 
sion. 

Common  Prayer.  The  Book  of 
Commoji  I'rai/er.  The  book  used  by  the 
Established  Church  of  England  iu  "  di- 
vine service."  Common,  in  this  case, 
means  united. 

Common  Sense  does  not  mean  that 
good  sense  which  is  common,  or  com- 
monly needed  in  the  ordinary  aft'airs  of 
life,  but  the  sense  which  is  coniniou  to 
all  the  five,  or  the  point  where  the  five 
senses  meet,  suj^posed  to  be  the  seat  of 
the  soul,  where  it  judges  what  is  pre- 
sented by  the  senses,  and  decides  the 
mode  of  action,     {JSec  Seven  Senses.) 

Commoner.     The  Great  Commoner. 

1.  Sir  John  Barnard,  who,  in  1737, 
j)roposed  to  reduce  the  interest  of  the 
national  debt  from  4  per  cent,  to  3  per 
cent.,  any  creditor  being  at  liberty  to 
receive  his  principal  in  full  if  he  pre- 
ferredit.  Mr.  Gosclien  (1889-90)  reduced 
the  3  per  cents,  to  2i. 

2.  William  Pitt,  the  statesman  (17u9- 
1806). 

Commons.  To  put  one  on  short  com- 
mons. To  stint  him,  to  give  him  scanty 
meals.  In  the  University  of  Cambridge 
the  food  provided  for  each  student  at 
breakfast  is  called  his  commo)is  ;  hence 
food  in  general  or  meals. 

To  come  into  commons.  To  enter  a 
society  in  which  the  members  have  a 
common  or  general  dinner  table. 

Commons  in  Gross  — that  is,  at 
large.  These  are  commons  granted  to 
individuals  and  their  heirs  by  deed,  or 
claimed  by  prescription  as  by  a  parson 
or  corporation. 

Common'wealths  (Idral).  "Utopia" 
by  Sir  Thomas  More,  "  The  New  Atlan- 
tis "  by  Lord  Bacon,  "The  City  of  the 
Sun"  by  Campanella,  etc. 

Companion  Ladder.  The  ladder 
leading  from  the  poop  to  the  main  deck. 
The  " companion  way"  is  the  staii'case 
to  the  cabin.  {Dana:  Seaman'' s  Manual.) 

V  The  staircase  from  the  deck  to  the 
cabin. 

Companions  of  Je  hu.  Tlie  Chouans 
were  so  called,  from  a  fanciful  analogy 
between  their  self-imposed  task  and  that 
appointed  to  Jehu,  on  being  set  over  the 
kingdom  of  Israel.    Jehu  was  to  cut  off 


Comparisons 


282 


Conciergerie 


Ahab  and  Jez'ebel,  with  all  theii'  house, 
and  all  the  priests  of  Baal.  The  Chouans 
were  to  cut  off  all  who  assassinated  Louis 
XVI.,  and  see  that  his  brother  {Jehu) 
was  placed  on  the  throne. 

Comparisons   are    Odorous.      So 

says  Dogberry.  {Much  Ado  About 
jS'othiiifi,  iii.  5.) 

"  We  own  your  verses  are  inelodions, 
But  theu  comparisous  are  odious." 

Sicift:  Aimioer  to  Slicridaii's  "  Simile." 

Complementary     Colours.       {See 

COLOUES.) 

Complexion  literally  means  "  what 
embraces  or  contains,"  and  the  idea  im- 
plies that  the  colour  of  the  skin  corre- 
sponds to  the  habit  of  body,  and  the 
habit  of  body  answers  to  the  element 
which  predominates.  If  fire  predomi- 
nates, the  person  is  bilious  or  full  of 
bile ;  if  air,  he  is  saiKjuine  or  full  of 
blood  ;  if  earth,  the  body  is  melancJtol'ic 
or  full  of  black  bile  ;  if  water,  it  is 
phleg' mat'ic  or  full  of  ijhlegm.  The  first 
is  hot  and  dry,  the  second  hot  and 
moist,  the  third  cold  and  cby,  and  the 
last  moist  and  cold  like  water. 
"  'Tis  ill,  tliii'  different  your  coniple-Kions  .ire  [i.e. 
dispositions]."  Uryden. 

"Cretans  tlu'ougU  mere  comple.xion  lie." 
Pitt:  Hymn  ofCdllimachuf. 

Com'pline  (2  syl.).  The  last  service 
of  tlie  day  iu  the  Roman  CathoHc 
Church.  First  appointed  by  the  abbot 
Benedict  in  the  sixth  centmy.  The 
word  is  a  corruption  of  complvto'rium. 

In  ecclesiastical  Latin  vcsperiiius,  from 
vesper,  means  evening  service,  and  com- 
ph'tinus  is  fonncd  on  the  same  model. 

Compostella.  A  corruption  of  Gia- 
ciiDio-iJijstolo  (James  the  Apostle).  So 
callt'd  after  his  relics  wer-e  transferred 
thither  from  Iria  Flavia  (El  Padron)  on 
the  borders  of  Galicia,  in  tlie  ninth 
century.  Leo  III.  transferred  the  See 
of  Iria  Flavia  to  Compostella.  (Some- 
where between  810  and  816.) 

Compte  rendu.  The  account  already 
sent;  the  account  of  particulars  deli- 
vered ;  a  report  of  proceedings. 

Com'rade  (2  syl.).  The  name  of 
Fortu'nio's  fairy  horse.  It  ate  but  once 
a  week ;  knew  the  past,  present,  and 
f  utm-e ;  and  spake  with  the  voice  of  a 
man.  {(rr'uuiu''s  Goblins  :  Fortunio.) 
(See  Horse.) 

Com'rades  (2  syl.).  Those  who  sleep 
in  the  same  bed-chamber.  It  is  a  Spanish 
military  term  derived  from  the  custom 
of  dividing  soldiers  into  chambers.    The 


proper  spelling  is  eamerades,  men  of  the 
same  cam'cra  (chamber). 

Co'mus.  God  of  i-eveby.  Milton 
represents  him  as  a  male  Circe.  (Greek, 
komos,  carousal. ) 

"  Tliis  nyrapb  fcirce],  that  gazed  upon  his  [Bac- 
olius's]  clustering  locks,  .... 
Had  l>y  him^ere  he' parted  thence,  a  son, 
JIuch  like  his  father,  liiit  his  niotlier  more, 
Whom  therefore  she  brouKht  up,  and  t'onuis 
named."  Milton:  Comus,M-i<x. 

Com  US.  The  elder  brother  in  this 
domestic  drama  is  meant  for  Lord  Vis- 
count Brackley,  eldest  son  of  John, 
Earl  of  Bridgewater,  president  of  "Wales. 
The  younger  brother  is  Mr.  Thomas 
Egerton.  The  lady  is  Lady  Alice  Eger- 
ton.     {Mil  ton.) 

Comus's  Court.  A  social  gathering 
formerly  held  at  tlie  Half-Moon  Tavern 
iu  Cheapside,  London. 

Con  Amo're  (Italian).  With  heart 
and  soul;  as,  "He  did  it  eoii  aiuo're" — 
i.e.  lovingly,  with  deliglit,  and  therefore 
in  good  earnest. 

Con  Commodo  (Italian).  At  a  con- 
venient rate.     A  musical  term. 

Con  Spirito  (Italian).  With  quick- 
ness and  vivacity.     A  musical  term. 

Co'nan.  The  Thersi'tes  of  "  Fingal ; " 
brave  even  to  rashness. 

£low  for  blow  or  elaw  for  claw,  as 
Coiiaii  said.  Conan  made  a  vow  never 
to  take  a  blow  without  returning  it ; 
when  he  descended  into  the  infernal 
regions,  the  arch-fiend  gave  liim  a  cuff, 
which  Conan  iustantlj'  retm'ned,  saying 
"Claw  for  claw." 

'■ '  Blow  for  Mow,'  as  C'oiian  said  to  the  devil."— 
Scott:  ICflrfi/ci/,  cliap.  .xxii. 

Concert  Pitch.  The  degree  of 
sharpness  or  flatness  adopted  by  a 
number  of  musicians  acting  iu  concert, 
that  all  the  instruments  may  be  iu  ac- 
cord. Generally,  a  particular  note  is 
selected  for  the  standard,  as  A  or  C ; 
this  note  is  i>ut  into  the  proper  pitch, 
and  all  other  notes  are  regulated  by  it. 

Concerto  (Italian).  A  composition 

intended  to  display  the  powers  of  some 

particular  iustrument,  with    orchestral 
accomjianiments. 

Con'cierge  (3  syl.).  Freiicli.  Tlio 
door  -  porter  of  a  public  oi'  jirivate 
"hotel,"  or  house  divided  into  flats, 
or  of  a  prison. 

Conciergerie.  (French.)  Tlie  office 
or  room  of  a  concierge  or  porter's  lodge  ; 
a  sttxte  prison.  Diu'ing  the  Revohitiou 
it  was  the  prison  wliere  the  chief  victims 
were  confined  prior  to  execution. 


Conclave 


283 


Congregationalists 


Conclave  (2  syl.).  A  set  of  rooms, 
all  of  \vhicli  are  entered  by  one  common 
key  (Latin,  con  da' vis).  The  word  is 
applied  to  the  little  deal  cells  erected  in 
some  large  apartment  for  the  cardinals 
wlio  meet  to  choose  a  new  Pope,  because 
the  long  gallery  of  the  Vatican  between 
the  cells  and  the  windows  of  the  palace 
is  common  ground  to  all  the  conclavists. 
The  assembly  itself  is,  by  a  figui'e  of 
si^eech,  also  called  a  conclave. 

Conclama'tio,  amongst  the  ancient 
Romans,  was  similar  to  the  Irish  howl 
over  the  dead  ;  and,  as  in  Ireland,  women 
led  the  funeral  cortege,  weeping  osten- 
tatiously and  gesticulating.  "One  not 
howled  over  "  (corpus  i/ondiim  conclaina'- 
tum)  meant  one  at  the  point  of  death ; 
and  "  one  howled  for  "  was  one  given  up 
for  dead  or  really  deceased.  Virgil  tells 
us  that  the  ululation  was  a  Phamician 
custom ;  and  therefore  he  makes  the 
l^alace  ring  with  howls  when  Dido  burnt 
herself  to  death. 

"  Lameiitis,  gemitutiue,  et  fiemineo  ululato, 
Texta  frenumt."  ^Jiiicid,  iv.  Bti". 

Conclamatum  est.  He  is  dead  past 
all  hope.  The  sense  of  hearing  is  gener- 
ally the  last  to  fail  in  the  hour  of  death, 
hence  the  Romans  were  accustomed  to 
call  on  the  deceased  three  times  by 
name,  and  if  no  indication  of  hearing 
was  shown  death  was  considered  certain. 
Conclamatum  est,  he  has  been  called  and 
shows  no  sign. 

Concord  is  Strength.  The  wise 
saw  of  Periander,  "tyrant"  of  Corinth 
(B.C.  660-080). 

Concor'dat.  An  agi-eement  made 
between  a  ruler  and  the  Pojie  relative 
to  the  collation  of  benefices.  As  the 
Concordat  of  1801  between  Napoleon 
Bonaparte  and  Pope  Pius  VII. ;  the 
Concordat  of  1-516  between  Francois  I. 
and  Poj^e  Leo  X.  to  abolish  the  "prag- 
matic sanction;"  and  the  Germanic 
Concordat  of  1448  between  Frederick 
III.  and  Pope  Nicholas  V. 

Condign'.  Latin,  cond/f/itns  (well 
worthy)  ;  as  condign  punishment — i.e. 
puuishmeut  well  deserved. 

"  111  tby  con'dif-'n  praise." 
fHiakenpeare :  Love's  Labour's  Lost,  i.  3. 

Condottie'ri.  Leaders  of  militaiy 
adventurers  in  the  fifteenth  century. 
The  most  noted  of  these  brigand  leaders 
in  Italy  were  Guarnie'ri,  Lando,  Fran- 
ces'co  of  Cai-mag'nola,  and  Francesco 
Sforza.  Giac'omo  Sforza,  the  sou  of 
Francesco,  maiTied  the  daughter  of 
the  Didce  of  Milan,  and  succeeded  his 


father-in-law.  The  singular  is  Con- 
dottiere  (5  syl.). 

Confed'erate  States.  The  eleven 
States  which  revolted  from  the  L'nion  in 
the  late  American  Civil  War  (1861-1866) 
— viz.  Georgia,  North  and  South  Caro- 
li'ua,  Virgiu'ia,  Tennessee',  Alabama, 
Louisia'na,  Arkansas,  Mississip'pi,  and 
Flor'ida    and  Texas. 

Confederation  of  the  Rhine.  Six- 
teen Gennan  provinces  in  1806  dissolved 
their  connection  with  Germany,  and 
alUed  themselves  with  France.  At  the 
downfall  of  Napoleon  in  1814  this  con- 
federation melted  away  of  itself. 

Confession.  John  of  Nep'omuc, 
canon  of  Prague,  suffered  death  rather 
than  violate  the  seal  of  confession.  The 
Emiaeror  Wenceslas  ordered  him  to  be 
thrown  oif  a  bridge  iuto  the  Moldau,  be- 
cause he  refused  to  reveal  the  confession 
of  the  empress.  He  was  canonised  as 
St.  John  Neijomu'cen. 

Confls'cate  (3  syl.).      To  forfeit  to 
the  public  treasury.      (Latin,  con  Jiscits, 
with  the  tribute  money.) 
"  If  thou  dost  shed  one  drop  of  Christian  lilood, 
Thy  lands  and  goods  are,  by  the  laws  of  Venice, 
Confiscate  to  the  State  of  Venice." 

Shakcsi  care  :  Merchant  of  reiiii-e,  i\ .  1. 

Confusion     Worse     Confounded. 

Disorder  made  worse  than  before. 
"  With  ruin  upon  ruin,  rout  on  rout, 
Coufusif.n  worse  confounded." 

Milton  :  Paradise  Lost,  ii.  line  996. 

Cong^.  "  To  give  a  person  his  conge  " 
is  to  dismiss  him  from  your  service. 
"  To  take  one's  conge  "  is  to  give  notice 
to  friends  of  your  departiu-e.  This  is 
done  by  leaving  a  card  at  the  friend's 
house  with  the  letters  P.P.C.  (pour 
prendre  conge)  inscribed  on  the  left-hand 
comer.  (French,  donncr  conge  and  don- 
ner  a  son  conge.) 

Conge  d'Elire  (Norman  -  French, 
tea  re  to  elect).  A  roj'al  warrant  given 
to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  a  diocese  to 
elect  the  person  nominated  by  the  Crown 
to  their  vacant  see. 

Congle'ton    Bears.      The    men    of 

Congletou.  It  is  said  that  the  Congle- 
tou  parish  clerk  sold  the  church  Bible  to 
buy  a  bear. 

Congrega'tionalists.  Tliose  Pro- 
testant Disseuters  who  maintain  that 
each  congregatiou  is  an  independent 
communit}-,  and  has  a  right  to  make  its 
own  laws  and  choose  its  own  minister. 
They  rose  in  the  time  of  Queen  Eliza- 
beth. 


Congreve 


284 


Conscience 


Con'greve  Rockets.  (1808.)  So 
called  from  Sir  William  Cougreve,  eldest 
son  of  Lieut. -Colouel  Sir  William  Cou- 
greve  (1772-1828). 

Congreves.  A  predecessor  of  Lucifer 
matches.  The  splints  were  first  dipped 
ill  sulphur,  and  then  tiiJ^jed  with  the 
chlorate  of  potash  jjaste,  in  which  gum 
was  substituted  for  sugar,  and  there  was 
added  a  small  quantity  of  suliJhide  of 
antimony.  The  match  was  ignited  by 
being  drawn  through  a  fold  of  sand- 
paper with  pressure.  These  matches, 
being  dangerous,  were  prohibited  in 
France    and    Germany.      {See   Peome- 

TIIEANS  ;    LUCIFEES.) 

Con'jugal.  What  pertains  to  con- 
JKges  (yoke-fellows).  In  ancient  times 
a  yoke  {jikjkiii)  was  \\\\i  on  a  man  and 
woman  by  way  of  marriage  ceremony, 
and  the  two  were  said  to  be  yoked 
together  by  marriage. 

Conjuring  Cap.  /  nmst  put  on  my 
conjiifiiKj  cap — i.e.  your  question  re- 
quires deliberate  thought,  and  I  must 
reflect  on  it.  Eric  XIV.,  King  of  Sweden, 
was  a  great  admirer  of  magic,  and  had 
an  "enchanted  cap"  made,  either  to 
keeji  his  head  warm  or  for  mystification. 
He  pretended  to  have  power  over  the 
elements ;  and  when  a  stonn  arose,  his 
subjects  used  to  say  "  The  king  has  got 
on  his  conjuring  cap." 

Connecticut,  U.S.  America,  is  the 
Indian  Qtiiu-  nc/i  -  t/ik-q//f,  meaning 
"  land  of  the  long  tidal  river." 

Connubialis  de  Mulcibre  fecit 
Apellem.  Love  turned  a  blacksmith 
into  a  great  artist.  Said  of  Queutin 
Matsys,  the  blacksmith  of  Antwerp,  who 
was  ill  love  with  an  artist's  daughter. 
The  father  scorned  the  alliance,  and  said 
he  should  not  be  accepted  unless  he 
made  himself  a  worthy  artist.  This  did 
Matsys  and  won  his  bride.  The  sen- 
tence may  be  seen  still  on  the  monument 
of  Quentiu  Matsys  outside  Antwerp 
cathedral. 

Conqueror.     T/w  Cojiqiicror. 

Alexander  the  Great.  The  conqueror 
of  the  ivorld.     (b.c.  356,  336-323.) 

Alfonso  of  Portugal.  (1094,  1137- 
1185.) 

Auruugzebe  the  Great.  Alenifflr.  The 
most  powerful  of  the  great  Moguls. 
(1618,  1659-1707.) 

James  I.  of  Aragon.   (1206, 1213-1276.) 

Othmaii  or  Osman  I.  Founder  of  tlie 
Turkish  power.     (1259,  1299-1326.) 

Francisco  Pizarro.     Conquistador.    So 


called  because  lie  conquered  Peru.   (1175- 
1541.)  _ 

William,  Duke  of  Normandy.  So 
called  because  he  obtained  England  liy 
conquest.     (1027,  1066-1087.) 

Conqueror's  Nose  {A).  A  promin- 
ent straight  nose,  rising  at  the  bridge. 
Charlemagne  had  such  a  nose,  so  had 
Henry  tiie  Fowler  (Heinrich  I.  of  Ger- 
many) ;  Rudolf  I.  of  Germany ;  Fried- 
rich  I.  of  Hohenzolleru,  famous  for 
reducing  to  order  his  unruly  barons  by 
blowing  up  their  castles  (1382-1440)  ; 
our  own  "Iron  Duke;"  Bismarck,  the 
iron  Chancellor  of  Prussia ;  etc. 

Conquest  (The).  The  accession  of 
William  I.  to  the  crown  of  England. 
So  called  because  his  right  depended  on 
liis  conquest  of  Harold,  the  reigning 
king.     (1006.) 

Con'rad  {Lord).  Afterwards  called 
Lara,  the  corsair.  A  proud,  ascetic,  but 
successful  captain.  Hearing  that  the 
Sultan  Seyd  was  about  to  attack  the 
pirates,  Conrad  assumed  the  disguise  of 
a  dervish  and  entered  the  palace,  while 
his  crew  set  fire  to  the  sultan's  fleet. 
The  trick  being  discovered,  Conrad  was 
taken  prisoner,  but  was  released  by  Gul- 
nare,  the  sultan's  favourite  concubine, 
whom  he  had  rescued  from  the  flaming 
palace.  Gulnare  escaped  with  the  cor- 
sair to  the  Pirates'  Isle,  and  wlien  Con- 
rad found  Medo'ra  dead,  he  left  the 
island,  and  no  one  knew  whither  he 
went.  The  rest  of  his  adventures  are 
recorded  under  his  new  name  of  Lara. 
[Ihjrou  :   'The  Corsair.) 

Conscience. 

Hare  yon  the  conscience  to  [demand 
such  a  price].  Can  your  conscience 
allow  you  to  [demand  such  a  price]. 
Conscience  is  the  secret  monitor  within 
man  which  accuses  or  excuses  him,  as 
he  does  what  he  thinks  to  be  wrong  or 
right. 

Tn  all  conscience.  As,  "And  enough 
too,  in  all  conscience."  Meaning  that 
the  demand  made  is  as  much  as  con- 
science would  tolerate  without  accusing 
the  person  of  actual  dishonesty  ;  to  the 
verge  of  that  fine  line  which  separates 
honesty  from  dishonesty. 

3Iy  conscience  !  An  oath.  I  swear  by 
my  conscience. 

Court  of  Conscience.  Established  for 
the  recovery  of  small  debts  in  London 
and  other  trading  places.  These  courts 
have  been  superseded  by  county  courts. 

"  Wliy  sliould  nnt  Conscience  liave  vacation. 
As  well  as  other  courts  o'  tlie  nation  ?" 

Butler:  UudiOras,n.2, 


Conscience 


285 


Constable 


Konconformist  Conscience.  (See  Non- 
conformist.) 

Conscience  Clause  (A).  A  clause 
iu  iui  Act  of  Parliainciit  to  relieve  per- 
sons with  couscieiitions  scruples  from 
certain  requirements  in  it. 

Conscience  Money.  Money  paid 
anonymously  to  Government  T)y  persons 
who  have  defrauded  the  revenue.  Tlieir 
couscieuce  being  uneasy,  they  send  the 
deficit  to  the  Treasury,  and  the  sum  is 
advertised  iu  the  Gazette. 

Conscious  Water.  The  conscions 
urttrr  t<(iir  its  God,  and  hhishecl  {Nijmpha 
pndica  I)eum  vidit,  ct  eruhuit).  Crashaw's 
epigram  on  the  miracle  of  Caua  in 
Galileo.  "The  modest  water"  would 
be  a  closer  rendering. 

Conscript  Fathers.  In  Latin,  Patres 
Conscripti.  The  Roman  senate.  Romu- 
lus instituted  a  senate  consisting  of  a 
hundred  elders,  called  Pat  res  (Fathers). 
After  the  Sabines  joined  the  State, 
another  hundred  were  added.  Tar- 
cjuiuius  Priscus,  the  fifth  king,  added  a 
third  hundred,  called  Patres  Minornni 
GcntiiiiJi.  When  Tarquiuius  Super^us, 
the  seventh  and  last  king  of  Rome,  was 
banished,  several  of  the  senate  followed 
him,  and  the  vacancies  were  filled  ujj  by 
Junius  Brutus,  the  first  consul.  The 
new  members  were  enrolled  in  the  sena- 
torial register,  and  called  CoHscri2)ti;  the 
entire  body  was  then  addressed  as  Patres 
[("/']  Conscripti  or  Patres,  C'oiiscripii. 

Consen'tes  Dii.  The  twelve  chief 
Roman  deities — 

Jupiter,  Apollo,  Mars,  Nei)tune,  Mer- 
cury, and  Vulcan. 

Juno,  Vesta,  Minerva,  Ceres,  Diana, 
and  Venus. 

Ennius  puts  them  into  two  hexameter 
verses  : 

"  Juno,    Vesta,   Minerva,   Ceres,   Diaua,   Venus, 
Mars, 
Mercurius,  Jovi',  Neptunus,  Vulcauus,  Apollo." 

*.*  Called  "  consentes,^^  says  Varro, 

"Quia  in  consilium  Jovis  adUibeliautur."— Be 
Lingua  Lutina,  vii.  28. 

Consenting  Stars.  Stars  forming 
configurations  for  good  or  evil.  In 
Judges  V.  20  we  read  that  "  the  stars  in 
their  courses  fought  against  Sisera,"  i.e. 
formed  unlucky  or  malignant  configura- 
tions. 

"  .  .  .  .  Scourge  the  bad  revolting  stars 
Tliat  liave  consented  unto  Henry's  death." 
Hliakef:)iernr  :  I  Ilcnry  17.,  i.  1. 

Conservative  (4  syl.).  A  medium 
Tory — one  who  wishes  to  preserve  the 
union  of  Church  and  State,  and  not 
radically  to  alter  the  constitution,     The 


word  was  first  used  in  this  sense  in  1830, 
in  the  January  number  of  the  Quarterlij 
Per  lew — "We  have  always  been  con- 
scientiously attached  to  what  is  called 
the  Tory,  and  which  might  with  more 
l^ropriety  be  called  the  Conservative 
party"  (p.  276). 

'.*  Canning,  ten  years  previously,  had 
used  tlte  word  in  a  speech  delivered  at 
Liverpool  in  March,  1820.  In  Lord 
Salisbury's  Ministry  those  Whigs  and 
Radicals  who  joined  the  Conservatives 
were  called  "Liberal  Unionists  "  because 
they  objected  to  give  Ireland  a  separate 
parliament  (188o). 

Consistory  (^4).  An  ecclesiastical 
court.  In  Rome  it  consists  of  the  car- 
dinals, presided  over  by  the  Pope.  In 
England  it  is  a  diocesan  court,  presided 
over  by  the  chancellor  of  the  diocese. 

Consolidated  Fund  {The).  In  1757 
an  Act  was  jiassed  for  consolidating  the 
nine  loans  bearing  difl:'ereut  interests, 
into  one  common  loan  bearing  an  interest 
of  three  per  cent.  In  1890  this  interest 
was  reduced  to  two  and  three-quarter 
percent. ;  and  in  1903  will  be  still  further 
reduced  to  two  and  a-half  per  cent. 
This  fund  is  pledged  for  the  payment  of 
the  interest  of  the  national  debt,  the 
civil  list,  the  salaries  of  the  judges,  am- 
bassadors, and  other  high  officials,  etc. 

Consols.  A  contraction  of  Consoli- 
dated Fund.     {Sec  above.) 

Con'sort  is,  properly,  one  whose  lot 
is  cast  in  tcith  another.  As  the  Queen 
does  not  lose  by  marriage  her  separate 
existence,  like  other  women,  her  husband 
is  called  a  consort,  because  he  consorts 
with  the  Queen,  but  does  not  share  her 
sovereignty. 

"  wilt  thou  he  our  consort  ? " 
Shakespeare :  Tiro  Gentlemen  of  Verona,  iv.  1. 

Conspirators.  Members  of  a  com- 
mercial ring  or  corner.  {See  Coener. 
Trusts.)  These  merchants  "conspire" 
to  fix  the  price  of  articles,  and  make  the 
public  bleed  ad  lihitam.  In  criminal 
law  it  means  persons  who  league  to- 
gether to  do  something  unlawful. 

Con'stable  (Latin,  eomes-stab'itli) 
means  "Master  of  the  Horse."  The 
constable  of  England  and  France  was  at 
one  time  a  military  officer  of  state,  next 
in  rank  to  the  crown. 

To  overrnn  or  OKtrnn  the  constable.  To 
get  into  debt ;  spend  more  than  one's 
income  ;  t.o  talk  about  what  you  do  not 
Tmderstand.     {See  below.) 

"Quoth  Hudibras,  Friend  Ralph,  lliou  hast 
Outrun  the  constable  at  last ; 


Constable 


28d 


Contenement 


For  thou  hast  fallen  on  a  new 
DisiHite,  as  senseless  as  untrue." 

Butler :  Hiidibras.  i.  3. 

Wf)o\s  to  pay  the  constable  ?  Who  is 
to  pay  the  score  ? 

The  constable  arrests  debtors,  and,  of 
course,  represents  the  creditor ;  where- 
fore, to  overrun  tlie  constable  is  to 
overrun  your  credit  account.  To  pay 
the  constable  is  to  give  him  the  money 
due,  to  prevent  an  arrest. 

Constable  de  Bourbon.  Charles, 
Due  de  Bourbon,  a  powerful  enemy  of 
Fran(;ois  I.  He  was  killed  while  heading 
the  assault  on  Konie.     (15'27.) 

Constantine  Tolman  (Cornwall). 
A  vast  egg-liko  stone,  thirty-three  feet 
in  lengtii.  eighteen  in  widtli,  and  four- 
teen in  tliickuess,  placed  on  the  jioints 
of  two  natural  rocks,  so  that  a  man  may 
creep  under  it.  The  stone  upheld  weighs 
750  tons. 

Constantine's  Cross.  In  Latin, 
v'uHis  ill  hoc;  in  English,  7?//  this  coii- 
qncr.     It  is  said  that  Constantine,  on  his 

— ..  march  to  Eome,  saw  a  luminous 
Vj  cross  in  the  sky,  in  the  shape  and 
O^  with  the  motto  here  given.  In 
*T^  the  night  before  the  battle  of 
\^  Saxa  Rubra  a  vision  appeared 
*  to  him  in  his  sleej),  commanding 
him  to  inscribe  the  cross  and  the  motto 
on  the  shields  of  his  soldiers.  He  obeyed 
the  voice  of  the  vision,  and  prevailed. 
The  monogram  is  XPio-To?  (Christ).  {Sec 
Gibbon  :  Decline  and  Fall,  chap.  xix.  n. ) 

This  may  be  called  a  standing  miracle 
in  legendary  history  ;  for,  besides  An- 
drew's cross,  and  the  Daunebrog  or  red 
cross  of  Denmark  (q.r.),  we  have  the 
cross  which  appeared  to  Don  Alonzo 
before  the  battle  of  Ourique  in  ll.^O, 
when  the  Mooi's  were  totally  routed  with 
incredible  slaughter.  As  Alonzo  was 
drawing  up  his  men,  the  figure  of  a  cross 
appeared  in  the  eastern  sky,  and  Christ, 
suspended  on  the  cross,  promised  the 
Christian  king  a  complete  factory.  This 
legend  is  commemorated  by  the  device 
assumed  by  Alonzo,  in  a  field  ai-gent  five 
escutcheons  azure,  in  the  form  of  a  cross, 
each  escutcheon  being  charged  with  five 
bezants,  in  memory  of  the  five  wounds 
of  Christ.     (<SW'  Labaetjm.) 

Constituent  Assembly.  The  first 
of  the  national  assemblies  of  the  French 
Revolution  ;  so  called  because  it  took 
an  oath  never  to  sej^arate  till  it  had 
given  to  France  a  constitution.  (17S8- 
1791.) 

Const  it 'uents.  Those  who  constitute 
or  elect  members  of  Parliament.  (Latin, 
constit'no,  to  place  or  elect,  etc.) 


Constitution.  The  fundamental  laws 
of  a  state.  It  may  be  either  despotic, 
aristocratic,  democratic,  or  mixed. 

To  (live  a  nation  a  constitafioii  is  to 
give  it  fixed  laws  even  to  the  limitation 
of  the  sovereign's  rights,  so  that  the 
people  are  not  under  the  arbitrary 
caprice  of  a  ruler,  but  inider  a  known 
code  of  laws.  A  despotism  or  autoci'acy 
is  solely  under  the  unrestricted  will  of 
the  desjiot  or  autocrat. 

Constitutions  of  Clar'endon.  {See 
Clarendon.  ) 

uljwfifulic  Coi/sfifi'tioiis.  A  "Catholic" 
code  of  both  doctrine  and  discipline 
collected  by  Clemens  Romauus.  The 
word  "  Apostolic,"  as  in  the  "  Apostles' 
Creed,"  does  not  mean  made  by  the 
Apostles,  but  what  the  "  Church"  con- 
sidered to  be  in  accordance  with  apos- 
tolic teaching. 

Con'strue.  To  translate.  To  trans- 
late into  English  means  to  set  an  English 
word  in  the  jilace  of  a  foreign  word, 
and  to  put  the  vrhole  sentence  in  good 
grammatical  order.  (Latin,  construo,  to 
construct.) 

Consuelo  (4  syl.).  The  impersona- 
tion of  moral  puiity  in  the  midst  of 
temptations.  The  heroine  of  George 
Sand's  {Marl.  DadcvanVs)  novel  of  the 
same  name. 

Contango.  The  sum  paid  by  a 
sjicculatdr  on  a  "bull  account"  {i.e.  a 
speculation  on  the  rise  in  the  price  of 
certain  stock),  to  defer  completing  the 
bargain  till  the  next  setthng  day.  {See 
Backwaedation.) 

Con'template  (3sjd.).  To  inspect  or 
watch  the  temple.  The  augur  among  the 
Romans,  having  taken  his  stand  on  the 
Capit'oline  Hill,  marked  out  with  his 
wand  the  space  in  the  heavens  he  in- 
tended to  consult.  This  space  he  called 
the  templam.  Having  divided  his 
tomplum  into  two  parts  from  top  to 
bottom,  he  watched  to  see  what  would 
occur  ;  the  watching  of  the  templum  was 
called  conteiiiplatin;/. 

Contempt'  of  Court.  Refusing  to 
conform  to  the  rules  of  the  law  courts. 
('o)iseqi(cntial  contempt  is  that  which 
tends  to  obstruct  the  business  or  lower 
the  dignity  of  the  court  by  indirection. 
Direct  contempt  is  an  open  insult  or 
resistance  to  the  judge  or  others  officially 
employed  in  the  court. 

Contenement.  A  word  used  in 
Magna  Charta,  meaning  the  lands  and 
chattels  connected    with    a    tenement ; 


Contentment 


287 


Cooking 


also  whatever  befits  the  social  position 
of  a  person,  as  the  arms  of  a  gentle- 
man, tlie  merchandise  of  a  trader,  the 
jiloughs  and  wagons  of  a  peasant,  etc. 

"Ill  evory  casr  (lu^  i-ontein'iucnt  (a  word  cx- 
I'vessive  of  cliMitcIs  iiiNcssiry  to  each  man's 
stMfinii)  WHS  i\c'iii|ih'ii  111. Ill  seizure."— //«(((«»  ; 
iliihlte  Attca,  pul  ii.  lii.ip.  viii.  \\  34i. 

Contentment  is  true  Riches.    The 

wise  saw  of  Democ'rito.s,  the  laughing 
philosopher.     (B.C.  509-400.) 

"  Cniilciit  is  wealtli,  the  riches  of  the  iiiiiid  ; 
Ami  liappv  he  who  can  sucli  riches  liiid." 

Ji null  II :  ir//r  nfUath-s  Tale. 

Contests  ofWartburg  {T/ic),  some- 
times called  The  Jiiililcs  of  the  Jliimtif/s. 
An  annual  contest  held  in  Wartburg,  in 
Saxe  Weimar,  for  a  prize  given  by 
Hermann,  Margrave  of  Thuriugia,  for 
the  best  poem.  About  1  ")0  siiecimeus  of 
these  poems' are  still  extant,  by  f;ir  the 
best  being  those  of  Walter  of  Vogel- 
weide,  in  Thuringia  (1168-1230). 

V  The  poem  called  The  Contest  of 
JJ'i/rt/ii(ri/  is  by  Wolfram,  a  minnesinger. 
It  records  the  contest  of  the  two  great 
German  schools  of  poetry  in  the  thir- 
teenth century — the  Thuringiau  and  the 
Suabian.  Henry  of  Vogel-weide  and 
Henry  of  Of  terdingeu  represent  the  two 
.schools. 

Continence  of  a  Scip'io.  It  is  said 
that  a  l)eautiful  princess  fell  into  the 
hands  of  Scipio  Africa'nus,  and  he  re- 
fused to  see  her,  "lest  he  shoidd  be 
tempted  to  forget  his  principles."  The 
same  is  said  of  Cyrus  {see  Panthea),  of 
Anson  {see  Theresa),  and  of  Alexander. 

Continental  System.  A  name 
given  to  Napoleon's  plan  for  shutting 
out  Great  Britain  from  all  commerce 
with  the  continent  of  Eurojje.  Ho 
forbade  under  pain  of  war  any  nation 
of  Europe  to  receive  British  exports,  or 
to  send  imports  to  any  of  the  British 
dominions.     It  began  Nov.  21st,  1806. 

Contin'gent  {A).  The  quota  of 
troojis  furnished  by  each  of  several  con- 
tracting powers,  according  to  agreement. 
The  word  properly  means  the  nTimber 
which  falls  to  the  lot  of  each  ;  hence  we 
call  a  fortuitous  event  a  contingency. 

Contra  bonos  Mores  (Latin).  Not 
in  accordance  \^-ith  good  manners ;  not 

eomnic  U  faut  {q.i'.). 

Contretemps  (French).  A  mis- 
chance, something  inopportune.  Liter- 
ally, "out  of  time." 

Conventicle  means  a  "  little  con- 
vent," and  was  originally  applied  to  a 
cabal  of  monks  against  the  election  of 


a  proposed  abbot.  It  now  means  a 
religious  meeting  of  dissenters.  (Latin, 
eomeiitiis,  an  assembly,  with  a  dimin- 
utive.)   {See  Chapel.) 

Conversation  Sharp.  Richard 
Sharp,  F.R.S.,  the  critic.     (1759-1835.) 

Convey.  A  jiolite  term  for  steal. 
Tliieves  are,  by  a  similar  euphemism, 
called  ronrej/ers.  (Latin,  etiiz-rcho,  to 
carry  away.) 

"Convey,  the  wise  it  call.  Steal  !  foil  !  a  flco 
for  the  iilirase."  —  iS7(«/ir.vj^<'or(! ;  Mem/  )\'ivis  uj 
]yiiiils,,i;  i.  -.i. 

Conveyers.     Thieves.     {See  above.) 

" Bolhigbriike.  'Go,  some  of  you,  convey  bim  to 
tlie  Tower.' 
Hk-h.  II.  '  O,  good  !  "  Convey."    Conveyers  are 

ye  all, 
That  rise  thus  nimbly  by  a  true  king's  fall.'" 
Shakespeare :  Richard  II.,  iv.  i. 

Conway  Cabal  {Thc^,  1777.  A 
faction  organised  to  place  General  Gates 
at  the  head  of  the  American  army.  He 
conquered  Burgoyne,  October,  1777,  at 
Saratoga,  and  hoped  to  supplant  Wash- 
ington. The  Conway  referred  to  is  the 
town  in  New  Brunswick,  North  America., 
where  the  cabal  was  formed. 

General  Gates  was  comiuerod  in  1780  by  Lord 
Coruwallig. 

Con'yger  or  Con'igry.  A  warren 
for  conies,  a  con3--biirrow. 

Cooing  and  Billing,  like  Philip  and 
Mary  on  a  shilling.  The  reference  is 
to  coins  struck  in  the  year  1555,  in  which 
Mary  and  her  consort  are  placed  face 
to  face,  and  not  cheek  by  jowl,  the 
iisual  way. 

"  still  atuorous,  and  fond,  and  billincr, 
Lil<e  Philip  aud  Mary  on  a  shilliu!,'." 

Iliidibras,  part  iii.  1. 

Cook  your  Goose.     {See  Goose.) 

Cooked.  The  boohs  have  been  cooked. 
The  ledger  and  other  trade  books  havt 
been  tampered  with,  in  order  to  show  a 
balance  in  favour  of  the  bankrupt.  The 
term  was  first  used  in  reference  to 
George  Hudson,  the  railway  king,  under 
whose  chairmanship  theEasteru  Counties 
Railway  accounts  were  falsified.  The 
allusion  is  to  preparing  meat  for  table. 

Cooking. 

Terms  belonging  to  cuisine  applied  to 
man  under  different  circumstances  : 

Sometimes  he  is  well  basted ;  he 
bolts  Avith  rage,  is  baked  with  heat, 
and  burns  with  love  or  jealousy.  Some- 
times he  is  buttered  and  well  but- 
tered ;  he  is  often  cut  vp,  devoured 
with  a  flame,  and  done  brown.  We 
dress  his  jacket  for  him ;  sometimes 
he  is  eaten  up  with  care  ;  sometimes  he 


Cooks' 


Cool  Hundred 


is  fried.  We  cook  his  ffoose  for  him,  and 
sometimes  he  makes  a  goose  of  himself. 
We  make  a  /iaf</i  of  him,  aud  at  times  he 
makes  a  hash  of  something  else.  He 
gets  into  /lot  tcafcr,  and  sometimes  into 
a  mess.  Is  made  into  mineemeat,  makes 
mincemeat  of  his  money,  and  is  often  in 
ajnelde.  We  are  often  asked  to  toast 
him,  sometimes  he  gets  well  roasted,  is 
sometimes  set  onjirc,  put  into  a  steir,  or 
is  in  a  stew  no  one-knows  why.  A  "soft " 
is  haJf-balced,  one  severely  handled  is 
well  peppered,  to  falsify  accounts  is  to 
salt  them,  wit  is  Attic  sa/t,  and  an  ex- 
aggerated statement  must  he  taken  emu 
graiw  salts.  A  pert  young  person  is  a 
srrnee  box,  a  shy  lover  is  a  spoon,  a  rich 
father  has  to  fork  out,  aud  is  sometimes 
dished  of  his  money. 

ii.   Couneeted  with  foods  and  drinks. 

A  conceited  man  does  not  thiuk  small 
beer  (or  small  potatoes)  of  himself,  aud 
our  moiith  is  called  a  potato-traii.  A 
simjileton  is  a  eake,  a  gudgeon,  and  a 
pigeon.  Some  are  cool  as  rt  cueaiiiber, 
others  hot  as  a  quail.  A  chubby  cliild  is 
a  little  diiiiipliiKj.  A  man  or  woman 
may  be  a  cheese  or  daek.  A  courtesan 
is  called  a  mutton,  and  a  large  coarse 
hand  is  a  mutton  fist.  A  greeily  person 
is  ii  pie/,  a  fat  one  is  a  saasa(/e,  and  a  shy 
one,  if  not  a  sheep,  is  certainly  sheep- 
ish ;  while  a  Lubiii  casts  sheep's  ei/es  at 
liis  lady-love.  A  coward  is  chieken- 
hearted,  a  fat  person  is  ennnini/,  and  a 
cross  one  is  eriisti/,  while  an  aristocrat 
belongs  to  the  npprr  eriist  of  society.  A 
yeoman  of  the  guards  is  a  beef-eater,  a 
soldier  a  reel  herrine/,  a  policeman  a 
lobster,  and  a  stingy,  ill-tempered  old 
man  is  a  crab.  A  walking  advertiser 
between  two  boards  is  a  savdirich.  An 
alderman  iu  his  chair  is  a  tarkeij  lianej 
with  saasagcs.  Two  persons  resembling 
each  other  are  like  as  tico  peas.  A  chit 
is  a  mere  sprat,  a  delicate  maiden  a 
tit-hit,  and  a  colourless  countenance  is 
called  a  whey  -  frice.  "How  now? 
.  .  .  Where  got  ye  that  whey-face  ?  " 

Cooks.  AtheniE'us  aifiiTns  that  cooks 
were  the  first  kings  of  the  earth. 

In  the  luxurious  ages  of  ancient  Greece 
Sicilian  cooks  were  most  esteemed,  and 
received  very  high  wages.  Among  them 
Trimarcio  was  very  celebrated.  It  is 
said  that  he  could  cook  the  most  couimou 
fish,  and  give  it  the  flavour  and  look  of 
the  most  highly  esteemed. 

In  the  palmy  days  of  Eome  a  chief 
cook  had  £800  a  year.  Autony  gave 
the  cook  who  arranged  his  banquet  for 
Cleopatra  the  present  of  a  city. 


Modern  Cooks. 

Careme.  Called  the  "Regenerator 
of  Cookery"  (1784-1 8;«). 

Francatelli  {Charles  Ehin),  who 
succeeded  Ude  at  Crockford's.  After- 
wards he  was  ajipointed  to  the  lioyal 
household,  and  lastly  to  the  Reform 
Club  (]8().')-187(J). 

SoYER  {J lexis),  who  died  1858.  His 
epitaph  is  Soijcr  tranqaille. 

Ude.  The  most  learned  of  modem 
cooks,  author  of  Science  dc  G'uciile.  It 
was  Ude  wlio  said,  "A  cook  must  be 
born  a  cook,  he  cainiot  be  Tnade." 
Another  of  his  sayings  is  this  :  "  Music, 
dancing,  fencing,  painting,  and  me- 
chanics possess  professors  under  the  age 
of  twenty  years,  but  pre-eminence  iu 
cookery  can  never  be  attained  luider 
thirty  years  of  age."  Ude  was  r//^;/' to 
Louis  XIV.,  then  to  Lord  Sefton,  then 
to  the  Duke  of  York,  then  to  Crock- 
ford's  Club.  He  left  Lord  Sefton's 
because  on  one  occasion  one  of  the 
guests  added  pejiper  to  his  soup. 

Vatel.  At  a  fete  given  l)y  the  great 
Conde  to  Louis  XIV.  at  Cautilly  the  rod 
at  Ihe  tweuty-fifth  table  was  wanting. 
Vatel  being  told  of  it  exclaimed  that 
he  could  not  survive  such  a  disp-ace. 
Another  messenger  then  announced  that 
the  lobsters  for  the  turbot-sauce  had  not 
amved,  whereupon  Vatel  retired  to  bis 
room  and,  leaning  his  sword  against  the 
wall,  thrust  himself  through,  and  at  the 
third  attempt  succeeded  in  killing  him- 
self (1G71). 

Weltje.  Cook  to  George  while 
Prince  Regent. 

Cool  Card.  Yon  arc  a  cool  card  (or 
prettji  cool  card).  A  person  who  coolly 
asks  for  something  preposterous  or  out- 
rageous. Card  =  character,  hence  a 
queer  card,  a  rum  card,  etc.  And 
"cool  "  in  this  connection  means  coolly 
impudent. 

y  Giiford  says  the  phrase  means  a 
"  cooling-card,  or  bolas^' ;  but  this  is  not 
likel}',  as  a  cool-card  acts  generally  as 
an  irritant.  A  person's  card  of  address 
is  given  at  the  door,  and  represents  the 
pei'son  himself,  aud  this  without  doubt 
is  the  card  referred  to. 

'•  You're  a  shaky  old  card  ;  and  you  can't  lie  in 
love  with  this  'Lizzie."— />(cAf»s;  Our  ihitual 
Fill  11(1,  l)Ook  iii.  chaji.  i.  ]'.  liii'. 

Cool  as  a  Cucumber.  Perfectly 
composed ;  neither  angry  nor  agitated 
in  the  least. 

Cool  Hundred  (A)  or  Cool  Thousand 
(or  any  other  sum)  means  entire,  or  the 
whole   of    £100.      Cool,   in    this    case, 


Cool  Tankard 


289 


Cophetua 


means  not  influenced  by  hot-headed 
enthusiasm  or  exaggeration. 
"  I  lust  a  ciiol  hiiudred  myse\f."— Mackenzie. 
Cool  Tankard  (A)  or  Cool  dtp.  A 
drink  made  of  wine  and  water,  with 
lemon,  sugar,  and  borage;  sometimes 
also  slices  of  cucumber. 

Coon  {A)  means  a  racoon,  a  small 
American  animal  valued  for  its  fur.  It 
is  about  the  size  of  a  fox,  and  lodges  in 
hollow  trees. 

A  (/one  coon.  A  person  in  a  terrible 
fix  ;  one  on  the  verge  of  ruin.  The 
coon  being  hunted  for  its  fur  is  a  "  gone 
coon"  when  it  has  no  escape  from  its 
pursuers.  It  is  said  that  Colonel  Crockett 
was  one  day  out  racoon  -  shooting  in 
North  Amei-ica,  when  he  levelled  his 
gun  at  a  tree  where  an  *'  old  coon  "  was 
concealed.  Knowing  the  colonel's 
prowess,  it  cried  out,  in  the  voice  of  a 
man,  "Hallo,  there!  au-  you  Colonel 
Crockett?  for  if  you  aii',  I'll  jist  come 
down,  or  I  know  I  am  a  gone  'coon." 

V  Martin  Scott,  lieutenant-general  of 
the  United  States,  is  said  to  have  had  a 
prior  claim  to  this  saying. 

Cooper.  Half  stout  and  half  porter. 
Tlie  term  arises  from  the  practice  at 
breweries  of  allowing  tlie  coopers  a  daily 
portion  of  stout  and  porter.  As  they  do 
not  like  to  drink  porter  after  stout,  they 
mix  the  two  together. 

Cooper.  A  coop  for  wine  bottles. 
The  bottles  lie  in  a  slanting  position  in 
the  coop,  and  may  be  tninsported  in 
it  from  place  to  jjlace.  We  find  allu- 
sions to  "six-bottle  coopers"  not  un- 
frequently,  i.e.  coops  or  cases  containing 
six  bottles.  Compare  "  hen-cooj)s," 
"  cooped  up,"  etc.  (Latin,  ciq)((,  a 
cask;  our  "  cup.") 

■'  (Enter  waiter  with  a  cdni'^r  of  wine.) 
M'liiter:   Six   bottles    of    wine    for    Corjioval 
T. i(ld\ . "  O'Ketffc  :  Rogues  AU,  iii.  4. 

Cooper.  Do  yon  icant  a  cooper  ? 
1  his  question  is  asked  of  those  who  have 
an  order  to  visit  the  wine  cellars  of  the 
London  Docks.  The  "cooper"  bores 
the  casks  and  gives  the  visitor  different 
wines  to  taste. 

Cooper's  Hill.  Xear  Kunnymede 
ami  Egham.  Both  Denham  and  Poj)e 
have  written  in  praise  of  this  hill. 

"  If  I  c-in  lie  to  tbee 
A  poet,  thou  Parnassus  art  to  rue." 

Denliam. 

Coot.  A  silly  old  coot.  Stupid  as  a 
coot.    The  coot  is  a  small  water-fowl. 

Bald  (IS  a  coot.  The  coot  has  a  strong, 
straight,  and  somewhat  conical  bill,  the 

19 


base  of  which  tends  to  push  up  the  fore- 
head, and  there  dilates,  so  as  to  form  a 
remarkable  naked  patch. 

Cop    {A).      A    poHceman. 

Cop  {A).    A  copperhead  (5.?'.). 

Cop.  To  throw,  as  cop  it  here.  The 
word  iiroperly  means  to  beat  or  strike, 
as  to  cop  a  shuttlecock  or  ball  with  a 
bat.  (Greek,  copto,  to  beat)  ;  but  in 
Norfolk  it  means  to  "  hull  "  or  throw. 

Cop  ,(^'o).  To  catch  [a  fever,  etc.]. 
To  "get  copped"  is  to  get  caught  by 
the  police.  (Latin,  capcre,  to  take,  etc.) 
A  similar  change  of  a  into  0  is  in  cotched 
(caught). 

"  Tlit-y  thought  I  was  sleopin',  ye  know, 
And  they  sed  as  I'd  coiiped  it  o'  Jim  ; 
Well,  it  come  like  a  bit  of  a  blow, 
For  I  watched  by  the  deatlibed  of  him." 
Sims:  Dagonet  Ballads  (Hie  Last  Letter). 
" '  I  sliall  cut'  this  to-morrow,  .  .  .  ."  said  the 
youn^-er  man.    'You'll  be  copped,  then,' replied 
the  other.'— r.  Terrell:  Lady  Llelmar. 

Copenhagen.  The  Didie  of  Welling- 
ton's horse,  on  which  he  rode  in  the 
Battle  of  Waterloo,  "from  four  in  the 
morning  till  twelve  at  night."  It  was  a 
rich  chestnut,  lo  bands  high.  It  was 
aftei-wards  a  pensioner  in  the  paddocks 
of  Sti-athfieldsaye.  It  died  quite  blind, 
in  1835,  at  the  age  of  twenty-seven, 
and  was  buried  with  miUtary  honoiu's. 
{See  HoESE.) 

Copernicanism.  The  doctrine  that 
the  earth  moves  round  the  stm,  in  op- 
position to  the  doctrine  that  the  sun 
moves  round  the  earth  ;  so  called  after 
Nicolas  Copernicus,  the  Prussian  as- 
tronomer.    (1473-1543.) 

"  Even  Bellarniine  does  not  by  any  means  hold 
the  consensus  to  be  decisive  against  Coperni- 
canism ;  for,  in  his  letter  to  P.  Foscarini,  he  says 
that  though  he  does  not  believe  that  any  proof  of 
the  earth's  motion  can  be  adduced,  yet,  should 
such  proof  occur,  he  is  quite  prepared  to  change 
his  views  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  Scripture 
text"— Nineteenth  Century,  May,  1886  (,Tlie  Case  of 
Galileo). 

"  Whereas  it  has  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
Holy  Congregation  that  that  false  Pythagorean 
doctrine  altogether  opposed  to  Holy  Scripture, 
on  the  mobility  of  the  earth  and  the  immobility 

of  the  sun,  taught  by  Nicholas  Copernicus 

This  congregation  has  decreed  that  the  said  book 
of  Copernicus  be  suspended  until  it  be  corrected." 
—Deeree  of  tUeH.  Congregation  of  the  Index,  A.D. 
1616.  (Quoted  in  the  Nineteenth  Century,  as  above.) 

Copes'mate  (2  syl.).  A  companion. 
"  Copesmate  of  ugly  night"  {Rape  of 
Lncrcce),  a  mate  who  copes  with  j'ou. 

Cophet'ua.  An  imaginary  king  of 
Africa,  of  great  wealth,  who  "  disdained 
all  womankind."  One  day  he  saw  a 
beggar-girl  from  his  window,  and  fell  in 
love  with  her.  He  asked  her  name  ;  it 
was  Penel'ophon,  called  by  Shakes^Dcare 
Xenel'ophon  {Loce^s  Labour'' s  Lost,  iv.  1). 


Copper 


2W 


Coq-a-rS,rie 


They  lived  together  long  and  happily, 

and  at  death  were  universally  lamented. 

{Percifs  Iteliqites,  book  ii.  G.) 

"  King  C'oplietua  loved  tlie  beffKar-inaid." 

Slial:e.'<pcarc :  Itainco  and  Juliet,  ii.  1. 

Copper  (yl).  A  policeman.  Said  to 
he  so  called  from  the  copper  badge  which 
Fernando  Wood,  of  New  York,  appointed 
them  to  wear  ;  but  more  likely  a  variant 
of  "cop  "  {q.v.). 

"  There  weie  nies  of  '  Coppers, Coppers  1 '  in  the 
yard,  and  then  a  violent  struggle Who- 
ever it  was  that  was  wanted  had  heen  evidently 
secured  and  dragged  off  to  gaol."— T.  TerrtlU  Lady 
Delmitr,  1. 

Copper  was  by  the  ancient  alchemists 
called  Venus  ;  gold,  symbol  of  Apollo 
(the  sun) ;  silver,  of  Diana  (the  moon)  ; 
iron,  of  Mars ;  quicksilver,  of  Mercury  ; 
tin,  of  Jupiter ;  and  lead,  of  Saturn. 

Copper.  Give  its  a  copper,  i.e.  a  piece 
of  copper  money.  /  haie  no  coppers — 
no  ha'pence. 

Copper  Captain  (.7).  A  Brummagem 
captain  ;  a  "  (jencral  von  Poffenburgh." 
Michael  Perez  is  so  called  in  lin/e  a 
Wife  and  have  a  Wife,  by  Beaumont  and 
Fletcher. 

"Totliis  copper-captain  was  confided  the  com- 
mand of  the  troops."—)!'.  Irvinfl. 

Copper    Nose.     Oliver    Cromwell  ; 

also  called  "  Kiihy  Nose,"  "Nosey," 
and  "Nose  Almighty,"  no  doubt  from 
some  scorbutic  tendency  which  showed 
itself  in  a  big  red  nose. 

Copper-nosed  Harry.  Henry  VIII. 
When  Henry  VIII.  had  spent  all  the 
money  left  him  by  his  miserly  father,  he 
minted  an  inferior  silver  coin,  in  which 
the  cojjper  alloy  soon  showed  itself  on 
the  more  prominent  parts,  especially  the 
nose  of  the  face  ;  and  hence  the  people 
soon  called  the  king  "  Old  Copper-nose." 

Copperheads.  Secret  foes.  Copper- 
heads are  poisonous  serpents  of  America 
that  give  no  warning,  like  rattlesnakes, 
of  their  attack.  In  the  great  Civil  War 
of  the  United  States  the  term  was  ap- 
jjlied  by  the  Federals  to  the  peace  party, 
sujiposed  to  be  the  covert  friends  of  the 
Confederates. 

Cop'ple.  The  hen  killed  by  Eeynard, 
in  the  tale  of  Jici/i/ard  the  Fox. 

Copronymus.  So  Constantine  V. 
wassuruamed  (718,  7-ll-77o).  "Kopros" 
is  the  Greek  for  dung,  and  Constantine 
V.  was  called  Copronymus:  "  Farce  qii^il 
salit  les  fonts  baptismaitx  lorsqiti'on  le 
baptisait.'''' 

Copts.  The  Jacobite  Christians  of 
Egypt,  who  have  for  eleven  centuries 


been  in  possession  of  the  patriarchal 
chair  of  Alexandria.  The  word  is  prob- 
ably derived  from  Co])tos,  the  metro- 
polis of  the  Theba'id.  These  Christians 
conduct  their  worshii)  in  a  dead  language 
called  "  Coptic  "  (language  of  the  Copts). 
'"The  Copts  [of  Ei-'ypt]  circumcise,  confess  to 
their  priests,  and  abstain  from  swine's  Itesb.  They 
are  Jacobites  in  their  creed."— 6'.  0/i«  ;  Travels  in 
Haypt  (vol.  i.  chap.  viii.  p.  ion). 

Co'pus.  A  drink  made  of  beer,  wine, 
and  spice  heated  together,  and  served  in 
a  "loving-cup."  Dog-Latin  for  f7//;t7/i'(;/ 
Hippoe' rutis  (a  cup  of  hippocras). 

Copy,  That's  a  mere  cop;/  of  tjottr 
countenance.  Not  your  real  wish  or 
meaning,  but  merely  one  you  choose  to 
present  to  me. 

Copji  is  a  printer's  term  both  for  ori- 
ginal MS.  and  printed  matter  that  is  to  be 
set  u\)  in  tyjie. 

Copyhold  Estate.  Land  which  a 
tenant  holds  [or  rather,  held]  without 
any  deed  of  transfer  in  his  own  posses- 
sion. His  only  document  is  a  co])y  of 
the  roll  made  liy  the  steward  of  the 
manor  from  the  court-roll  kept  in  the 
manor-house. 

"  Tlie  villein  took  aii'oath  of  fealty  to  his  lord 
fi>r  the  cottage  and  land  which  he  enjoycil  frmn 
liis  bounty.  .  .  .  These  tenements  were  suffered 
to  descen<l  to  their  children.  .  .  aiul  thus  llic 
tenure  of  coiiyhold  was  established."— ii/iyioii . 
EiigliiufI  tvol.  li.  chap.  i.  p.  l'7,  note). 

Copyright.  The  law  of  copj'right 
was  made  in  1814  (54  Geo.  III.  c.  156). 
It  enacted  that  an  author  should  possess 
a  right  in  his  work  for  life,  or  for  twenty- 
eight  years.  If  he  died  before  the 
expiration  of  twenty-eight  years,  the 
residue  of  the  right  jiassed  to  the  heirs. 

By  Talfourd's  or  Lord  Mahon's  Act 
(1842)  the  time  was  extended  to  forty- 
two  years,  and  at  least  seven  years  after 
decease  :  for  example,  if  the  time  unex- 
pired exceeds  seven  years,  the  heirs 
enjoy  the  residue ;  if  less,  the  heirs 
claim  seven  years. 

V  In  the  tirst  case  eleven  copies  of  the 
work  had  to  be  given  for  public  use  ;  by 
Lord  Mahon's  Act  the  nimiber  was 
reduced  to  five:  i.e.  one  to  each  of  the 
following  institutions,  viz.  the  British 
Museum,  the  Bodleian  (Oxford),  the 
University  library  (Cambridge),  the  Ad- 
vocates' library  (Edinburgh),  and  the 
library  of  Trinity  College  (Dublin). 

The  six  omitted  are  Siou  College,  the  Scotch 
"Universities  of  Glasgow,  Alierdeeu,  and  8t. 
Andrews,  and  King's  Inn  (Dublin). 

Coq-^-l'ane.  A  cock-and-bull  story  ; 
idle  nonsense,  as  "  II  fait  tonjoiirs  des 
coq-d-rdiie^' — he  is  always  doing  silly 
things,  or  talking  rubbish. 


Corah 


291 


Cordeliers 


Tl  m''a  rejjondu  par  itn  coq-a-Vdne — 
His  reply  was  nothing  to  the  purpose. 

Co'rah,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Absalom 
and  Achitophcl,  is  meant  for  Dr.  Titus 
Gates  (Numbers  xvi.).  North  describes 
him  as  a  short  man,  extremely  ugly  :  if 
his  mouth  is  taken  for  the  centre,  his 
chhi,  forehead,  and  cheek-bones  would 
fall  in  the  circumference. 

"  Sunk  were  his  eyes,  his  voice  was  harsh  and 

loud ; 
Sure  signs  lie  neither  choleric  was,  nor  proud  ; 
His  long  chin  proved  his  wit  ;   his  saint-like 

grace 
A  church  vermilion,  and  a  Moses'  face. 
His  memory,  miraculously  great, 
Could  plots,  exceeding  man's  belief,  repea 

Dryden:  Absalom  and  AchitopUcl,i.  l>4()-51. 

Coral  Beads.  The  Romans  used  to 
hang  boads  of  red  coral  on  the  cradles 
and  round  the  neck  of  infants,  to  "  pi-e- 
serve  and  fasten  their  teeth,"  and  save 
them  from  "  the  falling  sickness."  It 
was  considered  by  soothsayers  as  a 
charm  against  lightning,  whirlwind, 
shipwreck,  and  fire.  Paracelsus  says  it 
should  be  worn  round  the  neck  of  chil- 
dren as  a  preservative  "  against  fits, 
sorcery,  charms,  and  poison."  The  coral 
bells  are  a  Roman  Catholic  addition,  the 
object  being  to  frighten  away  evil  spirits 
by  their  jingle. 

"  Coral  is  good  to  lie  hanged  almut  the  neck  of 
children  ...  to  preserve  them  fnim  the  fallini.' 
sickness.  It  has  also  scmie  special  sympathy  witli 
nature,  f(ir  the  best  cural  .  .  .  will  turn  pale  ami 
wan  if  the  party  that  weais  it  be  sick,  and  it 
conies  to  its  former  colour  again  as  they  recover." 
—Phit :  Jewel-Bouse  of  Art  and  Nature. 

Cor'al  Master.  A  juggler.  So 
called  by  the  Spaniards.  In  ancient 
times  the  juggler,  when  he  threw  off  his 
mantle,  appeared  in  a  tight  scarlet  or 
coral  dress. 

Coram  Judice  (Latin).  Under  con- 
sideration ;  still  before  the  judge. 

Cor'anach,  or  Coeoxach.  Lamenta- 
tion for  the  dead,  as  anciently  j^ractised 
in  Ireland  and  Celtic  Scotland.  (Gaelic, 
comh  rrt«ff;f  A,  crying  together.)  Pennant 
says  it  was  called  by  the  Irish  h  ululoo. 

Cor'bant.  The  rook,  in  the  tale  of 
Reynard  the  Fox.  (Latm,  corvits;  French, 
corbeau.)    Heinrich  von  Alkmar. 

CorbeauK.  Bearers,  i.e.  persons  who 
carry  the  dead  to  the  grave  ;  mutes,  etc. 
So  called  from  the  corbiUards,  or  coches 
d'eau,  which  went  from  Paris  to  Corbeil 
with  the  dead  bodies  of  those  who  died 
in  the  16th  century  of  a  fatal  epidemic. 

"  J'ai  lu  quelque  part  que  ce  coche  [the  Corbil- 
lard]  servit,  sous  Henri   iv.,  a  transporter  des 


morts,  victimes  d'une  epidemie  de  Paris  a  Corbeil. 
Le  nora  de  Corbillard  resta,  depuis  aux  voitures 
funebres."— ^?/.  Bonnardot. 

Corceca  [Blind-heart'].  Superstition 
is  so  named  in  Spenser's  Faerie  Queene. 
Abessa  tried  to  make  her  imderstand 
that  danger  was  at  hand,  but,  being 
blind,  she  was  dull  of  comprehension. 
At  length  she  was  induced  to  shut  her 
door,  and  when  Una  knocked  would 
give  no  answer.  Then  the  lion  broke 
down  the  door,  and  both  entered.  The 
meaning  is  that  England,  the  lion,  broke 
down  the  door  of  Superstition  at  the 
Reformation.  Corceca  means  Romanism 
in  England.     (Book  i.  3.) 

Corcyre'an  Sedition  {The),  b.c.  479. 
Corcyra  was  a  colony  of  Corinth,  but  in 
the  year  of  the  famous  Battle  of  Platsea 
revolted  from  the  mother  country  and 
foiTued  an  alliance  with  the  Athenians. 
The  Corinthians  made  war  on  the  colony 
and  took  1,000  prisoners ;  of  these  250 
were  men  of  position,  who  promised  as 
the  price  of  liberty  to  bring  back  the 
CorcjTeans  to  the  mother  country.  This 
was  the  cause  of  the  sedition.  The 
250  returned  captives  represented  the 
oligarchical  party ;  their  opponents  re- 
presented the  democratic  element.  The 
latter  prevailed,  but  it  would  be  diflficult 
to  parallel  the  treachery  and  brutality  of 
the  whole  affair.  (Thueiididcs,  hook.  \y. 
46,  48.) 

Cordelia.  The  youngest  of  Lear's 
three  daughters,  and  the  only  one  that 
loved  him.     {Shakenpeare  :  Jiin//  Lear.) 

Cordelia's  Gift.  A  "  voice  ever  soft, 
gentle,  and  low ;  an  excellent  thing  in 
woman."  {Shakespeare :  King  Lear,  v.  3.) 

"It  is  her  voice  that  he  hears  prevailing  over 
the  those  [s(c]  of  the  rest  of  the  company,  .  .  . 
for  she  has  not  Cordelia's  siil."—Miss  Broughtun  : 
Dr.  Cupid. 

Cordeliers,  i.e.  "cord -wearers," 
1215.  A  religious  order  of  the  Minor 
Brothers  of  St.  Francis  Assisi.  They 
wore  a  large  grey  cloth  vestment,  girt 
about  the  loins  with  a  rope  or  corrl.  It 
was  one  of  the  mendicant  orders,  not 
allowed  to  possess  any  property  at  all ; 
even  their  daily  food  was  a  gift  of 
charity.  The  Cordeliers  distinguished 
themselves  in  j)hilosophy  and  theology. 
Duns  Scotus  was  one  of  their  most  dis- 
tinguished members. 

The  tale  is  that  in  the  reign  of  St. 
Louis  these  Minorites  repulsed  an  ai-my 
of  infidels,  and  the  king  asked  who  those 
ffens  de  cordelies  (corded  people)  were. 
From  this  they  received  their  appella- 
tion. 


Cordeliers 


202 


Corinth 


Cordeliers  {The),  1790.  A  French 
political  club  iu  the  Great  Revolution. 
It  held  its  meetings  in  the  "  Convent 
dcs  Cordeliers,"  which  was  in  the  "  Place 
de  I'Ecole  de  Me'decine."  The  Cordeliers 
were  the  livals  of  the  Jacobins,  and 
numbered  among  its  members  Pare  (the 
president),  Danton,  Marat,  Camille 
Desmoulins,  Hebert,  Chaumette,  I)u- 
fouruoy  de  Vilhers,  Fabro  d'Eglautiue 
(a  journalist),  and  others.  The  Chib  of 
the  Cordeliers  was  far  in  advance  of  the 
Jacobins,  being  the  first  to  demand  the 
abolition  of  the  monarchy  and  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  commonwealth  instead. 
Its  leaders  were  put  to  death  between 
March  24  th  and  April  oth,  1794. 

Tliis  rliil)  was  iiicknanietl  "  The  Paiidcnin- 
iiiiiiii,"  and  Danton  was  called  tlie  "  Arclillond." 
When  Hailly.  f  lio  mayiir,  locked  tlieni  out  of  their 
hall  in  IT'.il,  tlicy  met  in  the  Tennis  Court  (Paris), 
ami  ihaii'-rrd  ilicir  name  into  the  "Society  of  the 
HiL'lils  nf  Man";  hut  they  are  hest  known  by 
their  original  aiu'ellation. 

Cordon  {The),  in  fortification,  is  the 
flat  stone  covering  of  the  revetment  (y.  v.), 
to  protect  the  masonry  from  the  rain. 

Cordon  {I'li  f/raiid).  A  member  of 
the  L('f/i(i//  (V JlojiiK itr.  The  cross  is 
attached  to  a  ijniiid  (broad)  ribbon. 

Cordon  Bleu  {Un)  (French).  A 
kniglit  of  the  ancient  order  of  the  St. 
I'sprit  (Holy  Ghost)  ;  so  called  because 
the  decoration  is  suspended  on  a  blue 
ribbon.  It  was  at  one  time  the  highest 
order  in  the  kingdom. 

Vii  repas  do  cordon  him.  A  well- 
cooked  and  well-appointed  dinner.  The 
commandeur  de  Souve,  Comte  d'Olonne, 
and  some  others,  who  were-cordons  bleus 
(»'.<*.  knights  of  St.  Esprit),  met  togetlier 
as  a  sort  of  club,  and  were  noted  for 
their  excellent  diimers.  Hence,  when 
anyone  had  dined  well  he  said,  ^''  Bicn, 
c\-st  nil.  vvdi  rc])a!<  de  cordon  Jilcu.'''' 

Une  Cordon  Bleu.  A  facetious  compli- 
ment to  a  good  female  cook.  The  play 
is  between  cordon  bleu,  and  the  blue 
ribbons  or  strings  of  some  favourite  cook. 

Cordon  Noir  ( I'u) .  A  knight  of  the 
Order  of  St.  Michael,  distinguished  by  a 
black  ribbon. 

Cordon  Rouge  {Vn)  (French).  A 
chevalier  of  the  Order  of  St.  Louis,  the 
decoration  being  suspended  on  a  red 
ribbon. 

Corduroy'.  A  corded  fabric,  origi- 
nally made  of  silk,  and  worn  by  the 
kings  of  France  in  the  chase.     (French, 

cord  du  roy.) 

Corduroy  Road.     A  term  applied  to 


roads  in  the  backwoods  and  swampy 
districts  of  the  United  States  of  America, 
formed  of  the  halves  of  trees  sawn  in 
two  longitudinally,  and  laid  transversely 
across  tlie  track.  A  road  thus  made 
presents  a  ribbed  appearance,  like  the 
cloth  called  corduroy. 

"  liook  well  to  your  seat,  'tis  like  taking  an  airing 
On  a  corduroy  road,  and  that  out  of  repairint?. 
Lovcll :  Fable/or  Critics,  stanza  i. 

Cord'wainer.  Not  a  twister  of  cord, 
but  a  worker  iu  leather.  Our  word  is 
the  French  cordonannicr  (a  maker  or 
worker  of  cordouan)  ;  the  former  a  cor- 
ru2)tion  of  Cordova nicr  (a  worker  in  Cor'- 
dovan  leather). 

Corea  (T/ic).  The  dancing  mania, 
which  iu  1800  appeared  in  Tennessee, 
Kentucky,  and  Virginia.  The  usual 
manifestations  were  laughing,  shouting, 
dancing,  and  convulsions.  (Latin  c/iorSn, 
a  dance  where  many  dance  simultane- 
ously.) 

Corflam'bo.  The  impersonation  of 
sensual  passion  iu  Spenser's  Faerie 
Qtieoie.     (Book  iv.  8.) 

Cori'neus  (3  syl.).  A  mythical  hero 
in  the  suite  of  Brute,  who  conquered  the 
giant  Gocni'agot,  for  which  achievement 
the  whole  western  horn  of  England  was 
allotted  him.  He  called  it  Coriu'ea,  and 
tlie  people  Corin'eans,  from  his  own  name. 

"  In  meed  of  these  gi'eat  conciuests  hy  them  Kot, 
Corineiis  had  that  lJro^  ince  utmost  west 
To  him  assyncd  for  his  worthy  lot, 

Which  of  his  name  and  memorable  gest, 
He.alkd  Cinnvall." 

Si'ni^ry :  Faerie  Quernc,  ii.  10. 

Corinnus.  A  Greek  poet  before  the 
time  of  Homer.  He  wrote  in  heroic 
verse  the  Siege  of  Troy,  and  it  is  said 
that  Homer  is  considerably  indebted  to 
liim.     (Suidas.) 

Corinth.  A'o«  cniris  hotnini  continyit 
adirc  Corint/iniii  (It  falls  not  to  every 
man's  lot  to  go  to  Corinth).  GeUitis,  in 
his  Xoctcs  Atticec,  i.  8,  says  that  Horace 
refers  to  Lais,  a  courtesan  of  Corinth, 
who  sold  her  favoui-s  at  so  high  a  price 
that  not  everyone  coidd  afford  to  pur- 
chase them  ;  but  this  most  certainly  is 
not  the  meaning  that  Horace  intended. 
He  says,  "  To  please  princes  is  no  little 
praise,  for  it  falls  not  to  every  man's 
lot  to  go  to  Corinth."  That  is,  it  is  as 
hard  to  please  princes  as  it  is  to  enter 
Corinth,  situated  between  two  seas,  and 
hence  called  BimSris  Corinthus.  (1  Odes, 
vii.  line  2.) 

*,*  Still,  without  doubt,  the  proverb 
was  applied  as  Aldus  Gellius  says  :  ' '  The 
courtesans  of  Corinth  are  not  every 
man's  money."     Demosthenes  telk  us 


Corinth 


293 


Corneille  d'Esope 


that  Lais  sold  her  favours  for  10,000 
[Attic]  drachmJE  (about  £;J00),  and  adds 
taiiti  lion  ciiio  'paniterc.  ^  ^{Horace  : 
1  Epistles,  xvii.  line  3G.) 

Corinth.  Thar  is  but  one  roinllhat  leads 
to  ('ii)-iiith.  Tliere  is  only  one  right  way 
of  doing  anything.'  The  Bible  tells  us 
that  the  way  of  evil  is  broad,  because  of 
its  many  tracks  ;  but  the  way  of  life  is 
narrow,  because  it  has  only  one  single 
foot23ath. 

"  All  iillier  wavs  :\ro  wruHL'.  all  ntlier  '--luilcs  are 
false.  Urnif  my  ilitflcult.v  :— the  luiiiiber  ami 
\aiiet.v  of  rlit'  ways.  Furyini  know.  'There  is  hut 
line  ri.ail  tliat  leads  tii  t'uriutb.' "— i'«ftc  :  Muiius 
the  A>(<-HjV(()i,  fliai).  I'-l. 

Corinth's  Pedagogue.  Dionys'ios 
the  younger,  on  being  banished  a  second 
time  from  Syracuse,  went  to  Corinth  and 
became  schoolmaster.  He  is  called  Di- 
on j-sios  the  tyrant.  Hence  Lord  Bj'ron 
says  of  Napoleon — 

"  Cnrintirs  iieda'-'ogue  liatlj  miw 
Transfeireil  bis  liy-win-d  to  thy  liiow." 

Ode  to  SKpoleiiu,  stanza  \iv. 

Corin'thian  {A).  A  licentious  liber- 
tine. The  immorality  of  Corinth  was 
proverbial  both  in  Greece  and  Rome.  To 
(.'oriii't/iiaiiise  is  to  indulge  in  licentious 
conduct.  A  gentleman  sportsman  who 
rides  his  own  horses  on  the  turf,  or  sails 
his  own  yacht. 

A  ('(ir'nithian.  A  member  of  the 
pugilistic  club.  Bond  Street,  London. 

Corinthian  Brass.  A  mixed  metal 
made  by  a  variety  of  metals  melted  at 
the  conflagration  of  Coriutli  in  B.C.  146, 
when  the  city  was  burnt  to  the  ground 
by  the  consul  Mummius.  Vases  and 
other  ornaments  were  made  by  tlie 
Romans  of  this  metal,  of  greater  value 
than  if  they  had  been  made  of  silver  or 
gold. 

The  HnriL'-hee  vases  (U2r,)  of  China  were  iiiade 
(if  a  simil.ir  n^ixed  metal  when  the  Imiierial 
Iialacc  was  hiirnt  to  the  ground.  These  vessels 
ai-e  of  priceless  value. 

"  I  think  it  may  he  of  Corinthian  brass, 
Which  was  a  mixture  of  all  metals,  hut 
The  brazen  uppermost." 

JJlirun  :  Dun  Juan,  vi.  .50. 

Corin'thian  Order.  The  most  richly 
decorated  of  tlic  five  orders  of  Greek 
architecture.  The  shaft  is  fluted,  and 
the  cajiital  adorned  with  acanthus  leaves. 

{■'^ee  Acanthus.) 

Corinthian  Tom.  The  sporting  rake 
in  Pierce  Egan's  Life  in  London.  A 
"Corinthian"  was  the  "fast  man"  of 
Shakespeare's  period. 

"  I  am  no  proud  Jack,  like  Falstaff  :  lint  a  Co- 
rinthian, a  lad  of  mettle,  a  good  hoy."— 67iaie- 
speiire:  \  Henry  IV.,  \\.  4. 

Corinthian  War  {The),  b.c.  395-387. 
A  suicidal  contention  between  the  Co- 
rinthians and  the  Lacedemonians.     The 


allies  of  Corinth  were  Athens,  Thebes, 
and  Argos.  The  only  battle  of  note 
was  that  of  Coronea  won  by  the  Lacede- 
monians. Both  the  contending  parties, 
utterly  exhausted,  agreed  to  the  arbi- 
tration of  Ai'taxerxes,  and  signed  what 
is  called  The  Peace  of  Antalkidas. 

Xiit  Ic.iiL' after  this  destructive  contest  Epanr. 
uondas  and  I'l-lopidas  (Thehan  generals)  won  the 
battle  of  l.iucira  (li.c.  371),  fnnn  which  defeat 
the  Laceilenuinians  never  recovered. 

Corked.  This  irine  is  corlce'.l — i.e. 
tastes  of  tlie  cork. 

Corker  or  Calker.  The  nail  in  a 
horse's  shoe  to  prevent  slipping  in  frosty 
weather.     (Latin,  ealx.) 

Corking-pins.  Pius  at  one  time  used 
bj-  ladies  to  keej)  curls  on  the  forehead 
fixed  and  in  trim. 

Cor'moran'.  The  Cornish  giant  who 
fell  into  a  i)it  twenty  feet  deep,  dug  by 
Jack  the  Giant-killer,  and  filmed  over 
with  grass  and  gravel.  The  name  means 
cormorant  or  great  eater.  For  this 
doughty  achievement  Jack  received  a 
belt  from  King  Arthur,  with  this  inscrip- 
tion— 

"  This  is  the  valiant  Cornish  man 
That  slew  the  giant  Cormoran." 

Jack  the  Giatd-UiUer. 

Corn  ...  Horn.  Vp  corn,  doivn  horn. 
When  corn  is  high  or  dear,  beef  is  down 
or  cheap,  because  persons  have  less 
money  to  spend  on  meat. 

Corn  in  Egypt  (Therc\'<).  Tltere  is 
abundance  ;  tliere  is  a  plentiful  supply. 
Of  course,  the  reference  is  to  the  Bible 
story  of  Joseph  in  Egj-pt. 

Corn  -  Law  Rhymer.  Ebenezer 
Elliot,  who  wrote  jihilijipics  against  the 
com  laws  (1781-1849). 

"  Is  not  the  corn-law  rhymer  alreadv  a  king?" 
—Corlyle. 

Cornstalks.  In  Australia  and  the 
United  States,  youths  of  colonial  birtli 
are  so  called  from  being  generally  botli 
taller  and  more  slender  than  their 
parents. 

Corns.  To  tread  on  one's  corns.  To 
irritate  one's  prejudices  ;  to  annoy 
another  by  disregard  to  his  pet  opinions 
or  habits. 

Cor'nage  (2  syl.),  horn-service.  A 
kiud  of  tenure  in  grand  serjeanty.  The 
service  required  was  to  blow  a  horn 
when  an j^  invasion  of  the  Scots  was  per- 
ceived. "  Comagium  "  was  money  paid 
instead  of  the  old  serAdce. 

Corneille  du  Boulevard.  Guilbert 
de  Pixerccourt  (1773-1844). 

Corneille  d'Esope  {La).  Motley 
work.      "  C^est  la    corneille    d'Esojie,''^ 


Cornel' 


294 


Coronation  Chair 


The  allusion  is  to  the  fable  of  the  Jack- 
daw which  decked  itself  with  the  jilu- 
iiiage  of  the  peacocks.  The  jackdaw 
not  only  lost  its  borrowed  plumes,  but 
got  picked  well-nigh  to  death  by  the 
angiy  peacocks. 

Corner  (A).  The  condition  of  the 
market  with  resjiect  to  a  commodity 
which  has  been  largely  bought  up,  in 
order  to  create  a  virtual  monopoly  and 
enhance  its  market  price ;  as  a  salt- 
corner,  a  corner  in  jjork,  etc.  The  idea 
is  that  the  goods  are  piled  and  hidden  in 
a  corner  out  of  sight. 

"  Tlie  in-icc  (if  lirciiil  rose  likea  rocket,  ami  spec- 
iilatdi-s  wished  ici  i-nnit'r  what  little  wheat  there 
was."— A"((C  Yoiic  Wi'iiclji  Times  (.Juni'  I.S,  Ix'M). 

Corner.  Drircn  into  a  corner.  Placed 
■wliero  there  is  no  escape  ;  dri\'en  from 
all  subterfuges  and  excuses. 

Corner  {The).  Tattersall's  horse- 
stores  and  betting-rooms,  Knightsbridge 
Green.  They  were  once  at  tlie  corner  of 
Hyde  Park. 

'To  make  a  cor)ier.  To  combine  in 
order  to  control  the  price  of  a  given 
article,  and  thus  secure  enoiTnous  profits. 

{Sec  COENEE.) 

What  hare  I  done  to  deserre  a  corner  ? 
To  deserve  punishment.  The  allusion  is 
to  setting  naughty  children  in  a  corner 
by  way  of  punisliment. 

''There's  iiothiiis'  I  have  dciiie  jet,  o'  my  eoii- 
seience, 
Deserves  a  ciirnei'." 

ShnI.espearc  :  Hciiyii  Vllf.,   iii.  1. 

Corner-Stone (77; <).  The cliief corner- 
stone. A  large  stone  laid  at  the  base  of 
a  building  to  strengthen  -the  two  walls 
forming  a  right  angle.  These  stones  in 
some  ancient  buildings  were  as  much  as 
twenty  feet  long  and  eight  feet  thick. 
Christ  is  called  (in  Eph.  ii.  20)  the  chief 
corner-stone  because  He  united  the  Jews 
and  Gentiles  into  one  family.  Daughters 
are  called  corner-stones  (Psalm  cliv.  12) 
because,  as  -wives  and  mothers,  they 
unite  together  two  families.  In  argu- 
ment, the  minor  premise  is  the  chief 
corner-stone. 

Cornet.  TIte  terrible  cornet  of  horse. 
William  Pitt,  first  Earl  of  Chatham 
(1708-1778).  His  son  William  was  "the 
pilot  that  weathered  the  storm"  (mean- 
ing the  French  Revolution  and  Napo- 
leon) . 

Cornette.  Porter  la  cornette.  To  be 
domineered  over  by  the  woman  of  the 
house  ;  to  be  a  Jerry  Sneak.  The  cor- 
nette is  the  mob-cajj  anciently  worn  by 
the  women  of  France.  Porter  les  calottes 
(to  wear  the  breeches)  is  the  same  idea ; 


only  it  shows  who  has  the  mastery,  and 
not  who  is  mastered.  In  the  latter  case 
it  means  the  woman  wears  the  dress  of 
the  man,  and  assumes  his  position  in  t4ie 
house.  Probably  our  expression  about 
''wearing  the  horns"  may  be  referred 
to  the  "cornette"  rather  than  to  the 
stag  or  deer. 

Corn 'grate  (2  syl.).  A  term  given 
in  Wiltshii'e  to  the  soil  in  the  north- 
western border,  consisting  of  an  irregu- 
lar mass  of  loose  gravel,  sand,  and 
limestone. 

Cornish  Hug.  A  hug  to  overflirow 
j'ou.  The  Cornish  men  were  famous 
wrestlers,  and  tried  to  throttle  their 
tintagonist  with  a  particular  grip  or  em- 
brace called  the  Cornish  hug. 

Cornish  Language  was  virtually 
extinct  l.')0  years  ago.  Doll  Pentreath, 
the  last  person  who  could  speak  it, 
died,  at  the  age  of  ninety-one,  in  1777. 
{Xotes  and  Qaerics.) 

Cornish  Names. 


Thus,  Tre  [a  town]  gives  Trefry,  Tre- 
gengon,  Tregony,  Tregothuan,  Trelawy, 
Trenmyne,  Trevannion,  Treveddoe,  Tre- 
withen,  etc. 

I'ol  [a  head]  gives  Polkerris  Point, 
Polperro,  Polwheel,  etc. 

J'en  [a  top]  gives  Penkevil,  Peurice, 
Penrose,  Pentire,  etc. 

Cornish  Wonder  (The).  John  Oijie, 
of  Cornwall,  the  painter.     (1761-1807.) 

Cornubian  Shore  {The).    Cornwall, 
famous  for  its  tin  mines. 
"...  fiMiii  the  Meak  Ciirnubian  shore 

Dispeiise  the  iiiiueral  treasure,  w  hicb  of  old 

Sidouian  pilots  sought." 

Akenside:  Eymn  to  the  Naiads. 

Cornu-co'pla.        {See    Amalth.s:a's 

HOEN.) 

Cornwall.    {See  Baeey,  Coeineus.) 
Cor'onach.     {See  Coeanach.) 

Coronation  Chair  consists  of  a  stone 
so  enclosed  as  to  form  a  chair. 

It  was  i^robably  the  stone  on  which 
the  kings  of  Ireland  were  inaugurated 
on  the  hill  of  Tara.  It  was  removed  by 
Fergus,  son  of  Eric,  to  Argyleshire,  and 
thence  by  King  Kenneth  (in  the  ninth 
century)  to  Scone,  where  it  was  enclosed 
in  a  wooden  chair.  Edward  I.  trans- 
ferred it  to  Westminster. 

The  monkish  legend  says  that  it  was 
the  very  stone  which  formed  "Jacob's 
pillow." 

The  tradition  is,  ' '  Wherever  this  stone 


Coroner 


29.: 


Cortina 


is  found,  there  will  reign  some  of  the 
Scotch  race  of  kings."     {See  Scone.) 

Cor'oner  means  properly  the  crown- 
officer.  In  Saxon  times  it  was  his  duty 
to  collect  the  Crown  revenues  ;  next,  to 
take  charge  of  Crown  ^jleas ;  but  at 
present  to  uj)hold  the  ijaternal  solicitude 
of  the  Crown  by  searching  into  all  cases 
of  sudden  or  suspicious  death.  (Vulgo, 
croiciwr  ;  Latin,  coro'na,  the  crown.) 

"  But  is  this  law? 
Ay,  iii;irr.v,  ist :  orowner's  iiuest  law." 

Slialcespeare :  Hamlet,  v.  1. 

Cor'onet.  A  crown  inferior  to  the 
roj-al  crowni.  A  duke's  coronet  is 
adorned  with  strawberry  leaves  above 
the  band  ;  that  of  a  marquis  with  straw- 
berry leaves  alternating  with  pearls ; 
that  of  an  earl  has  pearls  elevated  on 
stalks,  alternating  with  leaves  above  the 
band;  that  of  a  viscount  has  a  string  of 
pearls  above  the  band,  but  no  leaves ; 
tliat  of  a  haron  has  only  six  pearls. 

Coro'nis.  Daughter  of  a  King  of 
Pho'cis,  changed  by  Athe'na  into  a 
crow.  There  was  another  Coro'nis,  loved 
bv  AjjoUo,  and  IdUed  by  him  for  infi- 
delity. 

Corporal  Violet.     {See  Violet.) 

Corporation.    A  large  paunch. 

A  municipal  corporation  is  a  body  of 
men  elected  for  the  local  government  of 
a  city  or  town. 

Corps  de  Garde  (French).  The 
company  of  men  appointed  to  watch  in 
a  guard-room  ;  the  guard-room. 

Corps  Diplomatique  (French).  A 
diplomatic  body  [of  men]. 

Corps  Legislatif  (French).  The 
lower  house  of  the  French  legislature. 
The  first  assemblj^  so  called  was  when 
Napoleon  I.  substituted  a  cori)s  legislatif 
and  a  tribunal  for  the  two  councils  of 
the  Directory,  Dec.  24,  1799.  The  next 
was  the  corps  kfiisladf  and  conseil  cVetat 
of  1807.  The  third  was  the  corps  legis- 
latif oi  7.50  deputies  of  1849.  The  legis- 
lative power  under  Napoleon  III.  was 
vested  in  the  Emperor,  the  senate,  and 
the  corps  legislatif.     (18-52.) 

Corpse  Candle.  The  ignis  fatuits 
is  so  called  by  the  Welsh  because  it  was 
supposed  to  forbode  death,  and  to  show 
the  road  that  the  corjjse  would  take. 
Also  a  large  candle  used  at  lich  wakes — 
i.e.  watching  a  corpse  before  interment. 
(German  Iciche,  a  corpse.) 

Corpus  Christi  [I'odg  of  C/irisf].  A 
festival    of    the   Chui'ch,  "kept   on   the 


first  Thursday  after  Trinity  Sunday,  in 
honom-  of  the  eucharist.  There'  are 
colleges  both  at  Cambridge  and  Oxford 
so  named. 

Corpus  Delicti  (Latin).  The  funda- 
mental fact  that  a  crime  has  really  been 
committed;  thus  finding  a  murdered 
body  is  "corpus  delicti  "  that  a  murder 
has  been  committed  by  someone. 

Corpuscular  Philosophy,  promul- 
gated by  Robert  Boyle.  It  accounts  for 
all  natural  phenomena  by  the  position 
and  motion  of  corpuscles.  {See  Atomic 
Philosophy.  ) 

Corrector.      {See   Alexander   the 

COERECTOE.) 

Corre'ggio.  T/ie  Corre'ggio  of  sculp, 
tors.  Jean  Goujon,  who  was  slain  in 
the  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew.  (1.510- 
1.572.) 

Corrob'oree.  An  Australian  war- 
dance. 

'■  He  roared,  stamiied,  and  danced  c{)rri)I)nree, 
like  an.v  black  feliow ."—Khigsley  :  Watcr-Uubies, 
cliap.  viii.  p.  3iifi. 

Corrouge.  The  sword  of  Sir  Ot'uel 
in  mediaeval  romance.     {See  Sword.) 

Corrugated  Iron.  Sheet  iron  coated 
with  zinc.  It  is  called  coiTugated  or 
wrinkled  because  the  sheet  is  made  wavy 
by  the  rollers  between  wliich  it  is  made 
to  pass. 

Corruptic'olae.  A  sect  of  heretics 
of  the  sixth  century,  who  maintained 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  corruptible. 

Corruption  of  Blood.  Loss  of  title 
and  entailed  estates  in  consequence  of 
treason,  by  which  a  man's  blood  is 
attainted  and  his  issue  suffers. 

Corsair'  7neaus  properly  "one  who 
gives  chase."  AjJijlied  to  the  pirates  of 
the  northern  coast  of  Africa.  (Italian 
corso,  a  chase ;  French  corsairc ;  Latin 
cnrsus.) 

Cors'ned  means  the  "  cursed  mouth- 
ful." It  was  a  piece  of  bread  "  conse- 
crated for  exorcism,"  and  given  to  a 
person  to  swallow  as  a  test  of  his  guilt. 
The  words  of  "  consecration "  were, 
' '  May  this  morsel  cause  convulsions  and 
find  no  passage  if  the  accused  is  guilty, 
but  turn  to  wholesome  nourishment  if 
he  is  innocent."  (Saxon,  corse,  curse; 
snad,  mouthful.)     {See  Choke.) 

Cor'tes  (2  syl.).  The  Spanish  or 
Portuguese  parliament.  The  word  means 

"  court  officers." 

Corti'na.  The  skin  of  the  serpent 
Pytho,    which    covered    the    tripod    of 


Corvinus 


29r, 


Coterie 


the  Pythoness  when  she  delivered  her 
oracles.  ' '  Tripodas  cortiua  tegit ' '  (Pr/i- 
dcntius  :  Apopltthcf/ntata,  o06)  ;  also  the 
tripod  itself,  or  the  place  wliere  the  oracle 
was  delivered.  (  Virgil :  JEiiehl,  vi.  34o.) 
*'  Ncque  te  Phoebi  cortina  fefellit." 

Corvi'nus  [((  raroi'].  Ja'nos Him'j'ady, 
Governor  of  Huugarj'',  is  so  called  from 
the  raven  on  his  shield. 

Therewere  two  Romans  so  called — viz. 
Vale'rius  Max'imus  Cor\'i'nus  Messa'la, 
and  Vale'rius  Messa'la  Corvi'nus. 

Marcus  Vale'rius  was  so  called  be- 
cause, in  a  single  combat'with  a  gigantic 
Gaul  during  the  Gallic  war,  a  raven  flew 
into  the  Gaul's  face  and  so  harassed  him 
that  he  could  neither  defend  himself  nor 
attack  his  adversarj-. 

Corybantic  Religion.  An  expres- 
sion ajiplied  liy  Prof.  Huxley  to  the 
Salvation  Army  and  its  methods.  The 
rowdy  processions  of  the  Salvation  Army 
(especially  at  Eastbourne,  1891),  re- 
sembling the  wild  ravings  of  the  ancient 
Corybantes,  or  devotees  of  Bacchus, 
more  than  sober,  religious  functions^ 
have  given  colour  to  the  new  word. 

Corycian  Cave  {Tlic),  on  Mount 
Parnassus ;  so  called  from  the  nj-mpli 
Corycia.  The  Muses  are  sometimes  called 
Corycides  (4  syl.). 

"  Tlie  immortal  Muse 
To  your  calm  liabitatinns,  to  the  cave 
Corycian  .  .  .  will  guide  his  footsteps." 

Aluiiiiidv  :  Hymn  to  the  Xaiuds. 

Corycian  Nymphs  (T/w).  The 
Muses.     {Sec  above.) 

Cor'ydon.  A  swain  ;  '  a  brainless, 
love-sick  spooney.  It  is  one  of  the 
shepherds  in  Virgil's  eclogues. 

Coryphse'us  (T/w)  or  "  Corypheus." 
The  leader  and  speaker  of  the  chorus  in 
Greek  dramas.  In  modern  English  it  is 
used  to  designate  the  chief  sjDeaker  and 
most  active  member  of  a  board,  company, 
or  expedition. 

Corypbseus  of  German  Literature 

{The).  Goethe,  "prince  of  German 
poets"  (1749-1812). 

"  The  Polish  poet  called  ui>on  ....  the  great 
CoryphKus  of  Genuan  literature."— See  iVofes  and 
Queries,  27th  April,  1878. 

Coryphaeus      of      Grammarians. 

Aristarchos  of  Sam'othrace.  A  cory- 
phaeus was  the  leader  of  the  Greek 
chorus  ;  hence  tlie  chief  of  a  department 
in  any  of  the  sciences  or  fine  arts.  Aris- 
tarchos, in  the  second  century  B.C.,  was 
the  chief  or  prince  of  grammarians. 
(Greek,  koriqihaios,  leader.) 


Coryph6e.  A  ballet-dancer.  {Sec 
preccditKj  column.) 

Cosa  (plu.  Cosas).  A  theoretic  specu- 
lation ;  a  literary  fancy  ;  a  whim  of  the 
brain  {Ii/ditii/). 

Cos'miel  (3  syl.).  The  genius  of  the 
world.  He  gave  Theodidac'tus  a  boat 
of  asbestos,  in  which  he  .sailed  to  the 
sun  and  ])lancts.  {Kirchcr :  lustat'tc 
Jounuij  III  lliarcii.) 

Cosmop  olite  (4  syl.).  A  citizen  of 
the  world.  One  who  has  no  partiality 
to  any  one  country  as  his  abiding- 
place  ;  one  who  looks  on  the  whole  world 
with  "  an  equal  ej-e."  (Greek,  cosnion- 
po/i'/cn.) 

Cos'set.  A  house  pet.  Applied  to  a 
pet  lamb  brought  up  in  the  house  ;  any 
pet.  (Anglo-Saxon,  cot-scat,  cottage- 
dweller;  German,  kossat.) 

Cos'tard.  A  clown  in  Zorr'.v  Labour''s 
Lost  (Shakespeare),  who  apes  the  court 
wit  of  Queen  Elizabeth's  time,  but  mis- 
applies and  miscalls  like  Mrs.  Malaprop 
or  Master  Dogberr}\ 

Costard.  A  large  apple,  and,  meta- 
phoricallj^  a  man's  head.     (Sec  Costee- 

MONOER.) 

"T.ikc  hiui  over  the  costard  with  the  hilts  of 
thy  ■:'\\iivi.\."—Hhaliesi>eare:  Richard  III.,  i.4. 

Cos'termonger.  A  seller  of  eatables 
about  the  streets,  projierly  an  ajjple- 
seller  (from  costard,  a  sort  of  api)le,  and 
monger,  "a  trader;"  finxon,  iiiaiif/ian, 
' '  to  trade  " ) ,  a  word  still  retained  in  iron- 
monger, cheese-monger,  fish-monger, 
news-monger,  fell-monger,  etc. 

"  Her  father  was  an  Irish  costarmonBor." 

B.Jouson:  The  Alchemist,  i\\  1.' 

Cote-hardi.  A  tight-fitting  tunic 
buttoned  down  the  front. 

"  He  was  clothed  in  a  cote-hanli  upon  the  syse 
of  Aliiiayne  [Germany]."— GVniT/oi  ile  la  Tuitr : 
Landry. 

Cotcreaux  (French).  Cut-throats. 
The  King  of  England,  irritated  at  the 
rising  in  Brittany  in  the  twelfth  century, 
sent  the  Brabaii9ons  ('/.>'.)  to  ravage  the 
lands  of  Raoul  de  Fourgeres.  "These 
cut-throats  carried  knives  {coiiteaux) 
with  them,  Avhence  their  name. 

Co'terie'  (3  syl.).  A  French  word, 
originally  tantamount  to  our  "guild," 
a  society  where  each  jjaid  his  quota — i.e. 
his  quote-part  or  gild  {share).  The 
French  word  has  dejiarted  from  its 
original  meaning,  and  is  now  applied  to 
an  exclusive  set,  more  especially  of 
ladies. 

"All  coteries  ...  it  seems  to  me,  have  a  ten- 
dency to  chans-'e  truth  into  affectation."— E.  C. 
Gaskell:  Charlotte  Bruute  (.vol.  ii.  chap.  xi.  p  47). 


Cotillon 


297 


Councils 


Cotillon  {co-til' -you)  means  properly 
the  •'  under-petticoat."  The  word  was 
applied  to  a  brisk  dance  by  eight  persons, 
in  which  the  ladies  held  up  their  gowns 
and  sliowed  their  under-jjetticoats.  The 
dance  of  the  present  day  is  an  elaborate 
one,  with  many  added  figures. 

Cotset.  The  lowest  of  bondsmen. 
So  called  ivomcot-sfat  (a cottage-dweller). 
These  slaves  were  bound  to  work  for 
tlieir  feudal  lord.  The  word  occurs  fre- 
quently in  ItoiiicKdiiij  Book. 

Cotswold  Barley.  Yok  are  as  long 
a-roiii'uxj  (IS  (■<j(>iirol(l  Ixtr/ci/.  Cotswold, 
in  Gloucestershire,  is  a  very  cold,  bleak 
jjlace  on  the  wolds,  exposed  to  the 
winds,  and  very  backward  in  vegetation, 
but  yet  it  yields  a  good  late  suj^ply  of 
barley. 

Cotswold  Lion.  A  sheep  for  which 
Cotswold  hills  are  famous.  Fierce  as  a 
C'otstrold  lion  (ironical). 

Cotta,  in  Pope's  Moral  Essai/s  (Epistle 
2).  John  Holies,  fourth  Earl  of  Clare, 
who  married  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Henry  Cavendish,  Duke  of  Newcastle, 
and  was  created  Duke  of  Newcastle  in 
1694  and  died  1711. 

Cottage  Countess  {The).  Sarah 
Higgius,  of  Shropshire,  daughter  of  a 
small  farmer,  iu  1790  married  Henry 
Cecil,  Marcjuis  of  Exeter  and  Lord  of 
Burleigh.  The  bridegroom  was  at  the 
time  living  under  the  name  of  John 
Jones,  separated  from  his  wife,  whose 
maiden  name  was  Emma  Vernon.  She 
eloped  with  a  clergyman,  and  subse- 
quently to  the  second  marriage  "John 
Jones,"  the  lord  of  Burleigh,  obtained  a 
divorce  and  an  Act  of  Parliament  to 
legitimatise  the  children  of  his  second 
wife.  Sarah  Higgins  was  seventeen  at 
the  time  of  her  marriage,  and  "John 
Jones  "  was  thirty.  They  were  married 
by  licence  in  the  parish  church  of  Bolas. 
Tennyson  has  a  poem  on  the  subject 
called  I'/ie  Lord  of  Burleigh,  but  his- 
torically it  is  not  to  be  trusted. 

Cottage  Orne  {A)  (French).  A 
cottage  residence  belonging  to  persons  iu 
good  circumstances. 

Cottys.  One  of  the  tliree  Hundred- 
lianded  giants,  son  of  Heaven  and 
Earth.  His  two  brothers  were  Briareus 
[Bri-a-riice']  and  Gyges  or  Gycs.  {tSee 
HuNDEKD- Handed,  Giants.) 

Cotton.  To  cotton  to  a  person.  To 
cling  to  one  or  take  a  fancy  to  a  person. 
To  stick  to  a  person  as  cotton  sticks  to 
our  clothes. 


Cotton  Lord.  A  great  cotton  lord. 
A  rich  Manchester  cotton  manufacturer, 
a  real  lord  in  wealth,  style  of  living, 
equipage,  and  tenantry. 

Cotto'nian  Library.  In  the  British 
Museum.  Collected  by  Sir  R.  Cotton, 
and  added  to  by  his  son  and  grandson, 
after  which  it  was  invested  iu  trustees 
for  the  use  of  the  public. 

Cottonopolis.  Mancliester,  the  great 
centre  of  cotton  manufactures. 

"  His  fi'iends  tlioufrlit  lie  wciiihl  liave  prefcrreil 
tbe  hiisy  life  nf  Cottiiiiiiinilis  lo  the  om-(it'-w:i.v 
eomity  of  VnrnwM."  —  JSia'xiittper  jHinKjraitl'i, 
January,  imsii. 

Cotyt'to.  The  Thracian  goddess  of 
immodesty,  worship^jed  at  Athens  with 
nocturnal  rites. 

"  Hail  !  goddess  of  nocturnal  sport, 
Dark-veiled  Cotylto." 

Milton :  Comiis,  IL'W,  130. 

Coucy.  Enguerrand  III.,  Sire  de 
Coucy,  has  won  fame  by  his  arrogant 
motto : 

"  Roi  je  ne  suis, 
Ni  Prince,  ni  corate.  aussi, 
Je  suis  Le  Sire  de  Coucy." 

Couleur  de  Rose  (French).  Highly 
coloured  ;  too  favourably  considered  ; 
overdrawn  with  romantic  embellish- 
ments, like  objects  viewed  through  glass 
tinted  with  rose  pink. 

Coulin.  A  British  giant,  pursued  by 
Debon  (one  of  the  companions  of  Brute") 
till  he  came  to  a  chasm  132  feet  across, 
which  he  leaped ;  but  slipping  on  the 
02'posite  side,  he  fell  back  into  the 
chasm  and  was  killed.  {Spenser  :  Faerie 
Qacene.)     {See  Giants.) 

Councils.  CEcHinenical  Councils. 
There  are  twenty- one  recognised,  nine 
Eastern  and  twelve  Western. 

The  Nine  Eastern:  (1)  Jerusalem ; 
(2  and  8)  Nice,  325,  787  ;  (3,  G,  7,  9) 
Constantinople,  381,  553,  680,  869;  (4) 
Ephesus,  431  ;   (5)  Chalcedon,  451. 

The  Twelve  Western:  (10,  11,  12, 
13,  19)Lat'eran,  1123,  1139,  1179,  1215, 
1517;  (14,  15)  Synod  of  Lyon,  1245, 
1274  ;  (16)  Synod  of  Vienne,  in  Dau- 
phine,  1311;  (17)  Constance,  1414;  (18) 
Basil,  1431-1443  ;  (20)  Trent,  1545-1.563  ; 
(21)  Vatican,  1869. 

',*  Of  these,  the  Church  of  England 
recognises  only  the  first  six,  viz.  : 

3i5  of  Nice,  against  tbe  Arians. 
3n1  of  Cunstcmtinople,  against  "  heretics. " 
i'M  of  Epiiesus,  against  the  Nestorians  and  Pela- 
gians. 
4.51  of  Ch(ih-c'ihin,v,ben  Atlianasius  was  restored, 
.5.5.3  of  Ciiii.ittintiuiiple,  against  Orlgen. 
(ino  of  C'undaiUiiwple,  against  the  Monotbelitea 
(4  syl.J, 


Counsel 


298 


Coup  d'Etat 


Counsel.  Keep  your  oirn  counsel. 
Don't  talk  about  what  you  intend  to  do. 
Keei)  your  jjlaus  to  yourself. 

'■  Now,  iniiul  wliat  I  tell  you,  and  keep  your  own 
counsel."  —  ISoldretcood  :  Sobbery  Under  Ariii.<:, 
cliap.  vi. 

Count  Kin  with  One  (7'o),  is  a 
Scotch  oxpressiou  meauing  to  compare 
cue's  pedigree  with  that  of  another. 

Count    not    your    Chickens  .   .  . 

(A'cr  Chickens.) 

Count  out  the  House  (To).  To 
declare  the  House  of  Commons  ad- 
journed because  tliere  are  not  forty 
niemVters  present.  The  Speaker  has  his 
attention  called  to  the  fact,  and  must 
himself  count  the  number  present.  If 
lie  finds  there  are  not  forty  members 
present,  he  declares  the  sitting  over. 

Count  Upon  (To).  To  rely  with 
confidence  on  some  one  or  some  thing ; 
to  reckon  on. 

Countenance  (,To).  To  sanction  ;  to 
sujjport.  Approval  or  disapproval  is 
shown  by  the  countenance.  The  Scrip- 
ture speaks  of  "  the  light  of  God's 
countenance,"  i.e.  the  smile  of  appro- 
bation ;  and  to  "  hide  His  face "  (or 
countenance)  is  to  manifest  displeasure. 

"  General  (Jrant,  neither  at  this  time  nor  at  any 
other,  gave  the  least  countenance  to  the  efforts 
.  .  •  .'  —A'icolay  and  Hay :  Abraliam  Lincoln  (vol. 
ix.  chap.  ii.  p.  51). 

To  hcep  in  cottntenmice.  To  encourage, 
or  prevent  one  losing  his  countenance  or 
feeling  dismayed. 

To  keep  owc's  countenance.  To  refrain 
from  smiling  or  expressing  one's  thoughts 
by  the  face. 

Out  of  coui/toi/riice.  Ashamed,  con- 
founded. With  the  countenance  fallen 
or  cast  down. 

To  2)ut  one  out  of  countenance  is  to 
make  one  ashamed  or  disconcerted.  To 
"discountenance"  is  to  set  your  face 
against  something  done  or  propounded. 

Counter-caster.  One  who  keeps 
accounts,  or  casts  up  accounts  by  count- 
ers. Thus,  in  The  Winter's  Tale,  the 
Clown  says,  "Fifteen  hundred  shorn; 
what  comes  the  wool  to  ?  I  cannot  do  't 
without  counters."     (Act  iv.  s.  3.) 

"  And  what  was  he  ? 
Forsooth,  a  preat  arithmetician,  .  .  . 
And  I  .  .  .  niust  be  belee'd  and  calmed 
By  debitor  and  creditor,  this  counter-caster." 
Shakespeare:  Otiiello,  i.l. 

Countercheck  Quarrelsome  (The). 
Sir,  how  dare  you  utter  such  a  falsehood? 
Sir,  you  know  that  it  is  not  true.  This 
is  the  third  remove  from  the  lie  direct  j 


or  rather,   the  lie  direct  in  the    third 
degree. 

The  Reproof  Valiant,  the  Countercheck  Quar- 
rrlsome,  the  Lie  Circumstanti.-il,  :im<1  the  Lie 
Direct,  are  not  clearly  di'lhiccl  bv  Tniichstone. 
That  is  not  inie  ;  bow  (Inrr  you  mi  icr  sucli  a  false- 
hiKMl;  i/yoii  s:iy  so,  you  area  liar;  \  ou  lie,  or  are 
a  liar,  seem  to  111  the  four  dcfc'rees. 

Counterforts,  in  permanent  fortiH- 
cation.  The  sides  of  ditches  strengthened 
interiorly  by  buttresses  sonic  tifteen  or 
eigliteen  feet  apart.     (■SVt  Kkvetments.) 

Counter-jumper.  A  draper's  assis- 
tant, who  jumps  over  the  counter  to  go 
fmin  one  jiart  of  the  shop  to  another. 

Counterpane.  A  corrujitinn  of 
counterpoint,  from  the  Latin  eulcita  (ii 
wadded  wrapper,  a  rpiilt).  Wlien  the 
stitches  were  arranged  in  patterns  it  was 
called  cid'cita  piincfa,  which  in  French 
became  courte-pointe,  corrujited  into 
eontre-pointe,  counter-point,  where  point 
is  pronounced  "poyn,"  corrupted  into 
"  jiane." 

Counterscarp,  in  fortification,  the 
side  of  a  ditch  next  to  the  open  country. 
The  side  next  to  the  jilace  fortified  is  the 
escarp. 

Countess  di  Civillari  {The).  A 
bog,  sewer,  cessjiool,  into  which  falls  the 
filth  of  a  city.  Two  wags  ijromised 
Simon  da  Villa  an  introduction  to  tlie 
Countess  di  Civillari, and  tossed  him,  in  his 
scarlet  gown,  into  a  ditch  where  farmers 
"emptied  the  Countess  of  Civillari  for 
manuring  their  lands."  Here  the  doctor 
floundered  about  half  the  night,  and, 
having  spoilt  his  robes,  made  the  best  of 
his  way  home,  to  be  rated  soundly  by 
his  wife.  (Boccaccio:  Bccaincron,'EA^t\\. 
day,  ix.) 

Country. 

To  appcid  to  the  counirij.  To  dissolve 
Parliament  in  order  to  ascertain  the 
wish  of  the  country  by  a  new  election  of 
rej)reseutatives. 

Father  of  his  country.     (See  Fathee.) 

Country-dance.  A  corruption  of  the 
French  contre  (hnise  (a  dance  where  the 
partners  face  each  other) . 

Coup  [foo].  He  made  a  good  coup. 
A  good  hit  or  haul.     (French.) 

Coup  d'Etat  (French)  means  a  state 
stroke,  and  the  term  is  ai^plied  to  one  of 
those  bold  measures  taken  by  Govern- 
ment to  prevent  a  supposed  or  actual 
danger ;  as  when  a  large  body  of  men 
are  arrested  suddenly  for  fear  they 
should  overturn  the  Government. 

The  famous  coup  cVetat,  by  which  Louis 
Napoleon  became  possessed  of  absolute 


Coup  de  Grace 


299 


Court  Circular 


power,   took  place  ou  December    2ud, 
1851. 

Coup  de  Grace.  The  finishing 
stroke.  When  criminals  were  tortured 
by  the  wheel  or  otherwise,  the  execu- 
tioner gave  him  a  coup  de  f/rdc(\  or  blow 
on  the  head  or  breast,  to  jiut  him  out  of 
his  misery. 

"  The  Turks  dealt  tlie  coiiii  de  grace  to  tlie  Eiist- 
eni  einiiire."— Ti/Hfs. 

V  The  following  is  taken  from  a  note 
(chap.  XXX.)  of  Sir  W.  Scott's  novel  27io 
betrothed. 

"This  iinnisliment  [lieiiiu-  broken  on  the  wheel] 
ciiiisists  in;tlie  exeeiilioner,  with  a  Imr  of  iron, 
lircukiiii,'  the  shouhler-hoiies.  arms,  tliiwh-hoiies, 
and  le'-rs-takini.'  allernate  sides.  The  imnish- 
iiieiil  IS  .■..loluded  l.v  a  lilow  across  tlie  l.reast, 
en  I  led  \Uv  niii),  </,■  ,//■.»,■,•,  or  Mow  (d'  niere\  ,  lieeause 
il  renio\es  the  siilterer  from  hisau-onv.  Mandnn, 
I  he  leleluated  siiiui,'i,'k-r,  «  title  in  the  act  .d'  I.einK 
thus  tortured,  tells  lis  that  the  sensihility  of 
liain  never  eontinnes  after  the  ner\uus  system 
has  heen  shattered  hy  the  Hrst  blow." 

Coup  de  Main  (French).  A  sudden 
.stroke  ;  a  stratagem  whereby  something 
is  effected  suddenly.  Sometimes  called 
a  cou]}  only,  as  "The  coxp  [the  scheme] 
did  not  answer." 

"  London  is  not  to  be  taken  by  a  coup  de  main.'' 
—riiblic  Opiiiiov. 

Coup  d'(Eil  (French).  A  view ; 
glance ;  prospect ;  effect  of  things  in 
the  mass. 

These  principles  are  presented  at  a 
single  coxp  (Vwil. 

The  coKj)  d'ceil  was  grand  in  the  ex- 
treme. 

Coup  de  Pied  de  I'Ane  (kick  from 
the  ass's  foot).  A  blow  given  to  a  van- 
quished or  fallen  man  ;  a  cowardly  blow  ; 
iin  insult  offered  to  one  who  has  not  the 
power  of  returning  or  avenging  it.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  fable  of  the  sick  lion 
kicked  by  the  ass.     (French.) 

Coup  de  Soleil  (French).  A  sun- 
stroke, any  malady  produced  by  ex- 
Ijosure  to  the  sun. 

Coup  de  Theatre.  Au  unforeseen  or 
unexpected  turn  in  a  drama  to  produce 
a  sensational  eft'ect.  In  ordinary  life, 
something  planned  for  eft'ect.  Burke 
and  his  dagger  was  meant  for  a  coiip  de 
i/ieiitre,  but  it  was  tm-ued  into  farce  by 
a  little  ready  wit.     {See  Dagoee-scene.) 

Coup  Manqu6  (A).   A  false  stroke. 
"  Shoot  dead,  or  don't  aim  at  all ;  but  never 
make  a.  coup  manqnS."—Otdda :  Under  Two  Flags, 
(hail.  XX. 

Coupon.  A  certificate  of  interest 
which  is  to  be  cut  off  [French,  couper] 
from  a  bond  and  presented  for  payment. 
It  bears  on  its  face  the  date  and  amount 
of  interest  to  be  paid.    If  the  coujious 


are  exhausted  before  the  principal  is 
jiaid  off,  new  ones  are  gratuitously 
supi)lied  to  the  holder  of  the  bond. 

Most  foreign  state-bonds  expire  in  a  stated 
term  of  years,  generally  a  portion  being  paid  oft 
anmially  at  par.  Suppose  there  are  1,ik«i  lionds, 
and  HI  are  paid  off  annually,  then  in  Inn  vears  all 
are  paid  off  and  the  obligation  is  cancelled. 

Courage    of   One's    Opinion.     To 

have  the  courage  of  one's  opinion  means 
to  utter,  maintain,  and  act  according  to 
one's  ojiinion,  be  the  consequences  what 
they  may.  The  French  use  the  same 
locution.  Martyrs  may  be  stiid  to  have 
had  the  courage  of  their  opinions. 

Courland  Weather.  Very  boister- 
ous, uncongenitil  weather,  with  high 
winds,  driving  snow  and  rain,  like  the 
weather  of  Courland,  in  Russia. 

Course,  jliiother  course  would  hare 
done  it.  A  little  more  would  have  effected 
our  purpose.  It  is  said  that  the  peasants 
of  a  Yorkshire  village  tried  to  wall  in  a 
cuckoo  in  order  to  enjoy  an  eternal 
spring.  They  built  a  wall  round  tlie 
bird,  and  the  cuckoo  just  skimmed  over 
it.  "Ah!"  said  one  of  the  peasants, 
"  another  carse  would  a'  done  it." 

"  There  is  a  school  of  moralists  who,  eiinnecting 
sundry  short-comings  ....  -with  changes  in 
manners,  endeavour  to  persuade  us  that  only 
'  another  carse '  is  wanted  to  wall  in  the  cuckoo." 
—Nineteenth  Century,  December,  1892,  p.  9:i0. 

Course.  To  keep  on  the  course.  To 
go  straight ;  to  do  one's  duty  in  that 
course  [path]  of  life  in  which  we  are 
placed.     The  allusion  is  to  racing  horses. 

"  We  are  not  the  only  horses  that  can't  be  kept 
on  the  courses— with  a  good  turn  of  speed,  too." 
—Boldrcicood  :  Hcibbery  under  Arms,  ch:i\i.  xv. 

Court  originally  meant  a  coop  or 
sheepfold.  It  was  on  the  Latium  hills 
that  the  ancient  Latins  raised  their  cors 
or  cohors,  small  enclosiu'es  with  hurdles 
for  sheep,  etc.  Subsequently,  as  man}' 
men  as  could  be  cooped  or  folded  to- 
gether were  called  a  corps  or  cohort.  The 
"  cors  "  or  cattle -yard  being  the  nucleus 
of  the  farm,  became  the  centre  of  a  lot 
of  farm  cottages,  then  of  a  hamlet,  town, 
fortified  place,  and  lastly  of  a  royal  resi- 
dence. 

Court.  A  short  cut,  alley,  or  paved 
way  between  two  main  streets.  (French, 
court,  "  short,"  as  prendre  un  chemin 
court,  "to  take  a  short  cut.") 

Out  of  court.  Not  worth  consider- 
ation ;  wholly  to  be  discarded,  as  such 
and  such  an  hyj)othesis  is  wholly  out  of 
coui't,  and  has  been  proved  to  be  un- 
tenable.    "  No  true  bill." 

Court  Circular.  Brief  paragraphs 
supplied  to  certain  daily  papers  by  an 
officer  (the  Court  Newsman)   specially 


Court-cupboard 


300 


CoUte  que  Coute 


appointed  for  the  puqjose.  He  au- 
nouuces  the  movements  of  the  sovereigu, 
tlie  Prince  of  Wales,  and  the  court 
generally  ;  gives  reports  of  the  levees, 
drawing-rooms,  state  balls,  royal  con- 
certs, meetings  of  the  Cabinet  ministers, 
deputations  to  ministers,  and  so  on. 
George  III.,  in  1803,  introduced  the 
custom  to  prevent  misstatements  on 
tliese  subjects. 

Court-cupboard.  The  buffet  to  hold 
flagons,  cans,  cujis,  and  beakers.  There 
are  two  in  Stationers'  Hall. 

"  Away  with  tlie  joint-stonls,  remove  (lie  couit- 
rinilioaril,  look  to  the  yiisite."  —  Shakcyiicdrc  : 
Jtiinicd  (tiiil  Juliet,  1.  5. 

Court  Fools.     («SVy,'  Fools.) 

Court  Holy  Water.  Fair  sjjceches, 
■which  look  like  promises  of  favour,  but 
end  in  nothing. 

Court  Plaster.  The  plaster  of  which 
the  court  ladies  made  their  patches. 
These  patches,  worn  on  the  face,  were 
cut  into  the  shape  of  crescents,  stars, 
cu'cles,  diamonds,  hearts,  crosses  ;  and 
some  even  went  so  far  as  to  patch  their 
face  with  a  coach-and-four,  a  shij)  in 
full  sail,  a  chateau,  etc.  This  ridiculous 
fashion  was  in  vogue  in  the  reign  of 
Cliarles  I. ;  and  in  the  reign  of  Anne  was 
cniplo>'ed  as  the  badge  of  political  par- 
tisanship.    {>Sce  Patches.) 

'•  Your  Mack  patclios  you  wear  variously, 
Some  cut.  like  stars,  some  iu  lialf-iiioons,  some 
lozcuL-es." 
Uta (iiiioiit  and  FIttclicr:  Eider  Brother,  iii.  2. 

Court  of  Love.  A  judicial  court  for 
deciding  affairs  of  the  heart,  established 
in  Provence  during  the  palmy  days  of 
the  Troubadours.  The  following  is  a 
case  submitted  to  their  judgment :  A 
lady  listened  to  one  admirer,  squeezed 
the  hand  of  another,  and  touched  with 
lier  toe  the  foot  of  a  third.  Query, 
Which  of  these  three  was  the  favoured 
suitor  ■' 

Court  of  Pie-powder.      (See  Pie- 

POUDEE.) 

Court  of  the  Gentiles  (I'he).  They 
arc  hut  hi  the  Court  of  the  Getitilcs.  They 
are  not  wholly  God's  people ;  they  are 
not  the  elect,  but  have  only  a  smatter- 
ing of  the  truth.  The  "  Com-t  of  the 
Israelites  "  in  the  Jewish  temple  was  for 
Jewish  men  ;  the  "  Court  of  the 
Women  "  was  for  Jewish  women ;  the 
"  Court  of  the  Gentiles  "  was  for  those 
who  were  not  Jews. 

"Oil,  CUultlie,  tliey  are  but  in  the  Court  of  the 
Gentiles,  ami  will  ne'er  win  farther  ben,  I  doubt." 
—Sir  W.  Scott:  Old  Moitalitij,  chap.  viii. 


Courtesy.  Civilit\',  politeness.  It 
was  at  the  courts  of  princes  and  great 
feudatories  that  minstrels  and  pages 
practised  the  refinements  of  the  age  in 
which  they  lived.  The  word  originallj' 
meant  the  manners  of  the  court. 

Courtesy  Titles.  Titles  assumed  or 
granted  by  social  custom,  but  not  of  any 
legal  value.  Tlie  courtesy  title  of  the 
eldest  son  of  a  duke  is  iiiarqiih ;  of  a 
marquis  is  varl ;  of  the  eldest  son  of  an 
earl  is  risroioit.  Younger  sons  of  peers 
are  by  courtesy  called  lord  or  lionour- 
able,  and  the  daughters  are  lady  or 
honourable.  These  titles  do  not  give 
the  holders  official  rank  to  sit  in  the 
House  of  Lords.  Even  the  Manjuis  of 
Lome,  the  Queen'.s  son-in-law,  is  only  a 
commoner  (1894). 

Cousin.  Blackstone  .says  that  Henry 
IV.,  being  related  or  allied  to  every 
earl  in  the  kingdom,  artfully  and  con- 
stantly acknowledged  the  connection 
in  all  public  acts.  The  usage  has  de- 
scended to  his  successors,  though  the 
reason  has  long  ago  failed.  {(Jomme)i- 
tartes,  i.  398.) 

Cousin.  All  peers  above  the  I'auk  of 
baron  are  officially  addi'essed  by  the 
Crown  as  cousin. 

A  v'mcoHut  or  carl  is  "  Our  light 
trusty  and  well-beloved  coushi." 

A  marquis  is  "Our  right  trusty  and 
entirely -beloved  cousin." 

A  duke  is  ' '  Our  right  trusty  and 
right-entirel3'-beloved  cousin." 

Cousin  Betsy.  A  half-witted  person, 
a  "  Bess  of  Bedlam  "  {q.r.). 

"  [Xone]  can  say  Foster's  wronged  liim  of  a 
peuiiv.  or  gave  short  measure  to  a  child  or  a 
cousin  Betsy."— J//-S.  G((W.(-(/. 

Cousin-german.  The  children  of 
brothers  and  sisters,  first  cousins ;  kins- 
folk. (Latin,  (/crnta'nus,  a  brother,  one 
of  the  same  stock.) 

"  There  is  three  cozen-Kernians  that  has 
cozeneil  all  the  hosts  of  irejidiug,  of  Maiden- 
he:Hl,  of  Colelirook,  of  horses  aiid  money."— 
Slial,cs)ict(rc  :  Mirry  Wicis  of  Windsor,  iv.  5. 

Cousin  Jack.  So  Comishmen  are 
called  iu  the  w'esteru  comities. 

Cousin  Michael  (or  Mie/iel).  The 
Germans  are  so  called.  Jlie/iel,  in  Old 
Gemian,  means  "gross,"  cousin  Michel 
is  meant  to  indicate  a  slow,  heavy, 
simple,  imretined,  coarse -feeding  people. 

Coute  que  Coute  (French).  Cost 
what  it  may,  at  any  price,  be  the  conse- 
quences what  they  may. 

"  His  object  is  to  serve  his  party  cotftc  que 
coiSte."— Standard.         _  _ 


Couvade 


801 


Cow-lick 


Couvade  (2  syl.).  A  man  who  takes 
the  place  of  his  wife  when  she  is  in 
child-bed.  (See  Rcadcr''s  IJaudboolc, 
p.  217,  col.  2.) 

Cove  (1  syl.).  An  individual ;  as  a 
JIksIi  cove  (a  swell),  a  rum  core  (a  man 
whoso  position  and  character  is  not 
quite  palijable),  a  gentri/  cove  (a  gentle- 
man), a  doiniy  cove  (a  very  knowing 
individual),  etc.  (Gipsy,  cava,  a  thing ; 
covo,  that  man;  covi,  that  woman.) 

Cov'enanters.  A  tenn  apjilied,  dur- 
ing the  civil  wars,  to  the  Scotch  Presby- 
terians, who  iiuited  by  ' '  solemn  league 
and  covenant"  to  resist  the  encroach- 
ments of  Charles  I.  on  religious  liberty. 

Covent  Garden.  A  conniption  of 
Convent  Garden  :  tlio  garden  and  burial 
ground  attached  to  the  convent  of  West- 
minster, and  turned  into  a  fruit  and 
flower  market  in  the  reign  of  Charles  II. 
It  now  belongs  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford. 

Cov'entry.  To  send  one  to  Corentri/. 
To  take  no  notice  of  him  ;  to  let  him  live 
and  move  and  have  his  being  with  you, 
but  pay  no  more  heed  to  him  than  to 
the  idle  winds  which  you  regard  not. 
According  to  Messrs.  Chambers  {Cijclo- 
ptcdid),  the  citizens  of  Coventry  had  at 
one  time  so  great  a  dislike  to  soldiers  that 
a  woman  seen  speaking  to  one  was  in- 
stantly taljooed.  No  intercourse  was 
ever  allowed  between  the  garrison  and 
the  town  ;  hence,  when  a  soldier  was  sent 
to  Coventry,  he  was  cut  off  from  all 
social  intercourse. 

Hutton,  in  his  iristori/  of  Biyniinghain, 
gives  a  different  version.  He  says  that 
Coventrj^  was  a  stronghold  of  the  par- 
liamentary party  in  the  civil  wars,  and 
that  all  troublesome  and  refractory 
royalists  were  sent  there  for  safe  custody. 

The  former  explanation  meets  the 
general  scope  of  the  phrase  the  better. 
{See  Boycott.) 

Coventry  Mysteries.  Miracle  plays 
acted  at  Coventry  till  1591.  They  were 
published  in  1841  for  the  Shakespeare 
Society. 

I'arHaments  held  at  Covenirij.  Two 
parliaments  have  been  held  in  this  city, 
one  in  140-1,  styled  I'arHcnnent/iin  Indoc- 
torum ;  and  the  other  in  1159,  called 
raylianicntum  Diabolicitni. 

Cover.  To  hrcalc  cover.  To  start 
from  the  covert  or  temporary  lair.  The 
usual  earth-holes  of  a  fox  being  covered 
\x^  the  niglit  before  a  liunt,  the  creature 
makes  some  gorse-bush  or  other  cover 
its  temporary  resting-place,  and  as  soon 
tis  it  quits  it  the  hunt  begins. 


Covers  were  laid  for  .  .  .  Dinner 

was  provided  for.  ...  A  cover  (ecu  vert) 
•Ki  French  means  knife,  fork,  spoon,  and 
napkin.  Hence,  nicttrc  Ic  convert,  to  lay 
the  cloth ;  and  lever  (or  otcr)  le  convert, 
to  clear  it  away. 

Covered  Way,  in  fortification.  {Sec 
Glacis.) 

Covering  the  Face.  No  malefactor 
was  allowed,  in  ancient  Persia,  to  look 
upon  a  king.  So,  in  Esther  vii.  5,  when 
Haman  fell  into  disgrace,  being  seen  on 
the  queen's  divan,  "  they  instantly  cover 
Haman' s  face,"  that  he  might  not  look 
on  the  face  of  Ahasuerus. 

V  In  India  a  low  caste  man  covers  his 
mouth  when  speaking  to  one  of  high 
caste. 

Cov'erley.  Sir  Bor/er  dc  Coverlei/.  A 
member  of  an  liyi)othetical  club  in  the 
Spectator,  "  who  lived  in  Soho  Square 
when  he  was  in  town."  Sir  Roger  is 
the  type  of  an  English  squire  in  the 
reign  of  Queen  Anne.  He  figures  in 
thirty  papers  of  the  Spectator. 

"Who  can  he  inspiisilile  to  Ijis  uupretemliug 
virtues  and  :inii:ilili'  weakuesses  ;  bis  iiiodesly, 
generosity,  lin^|.ii:[iii> ,  aucl  eccentric  wliinis  ; 
the  respect  i'^ir  lii>  imi^'IiIkhus,  and  the  affection 
of  Ills  donicst  ics  :-   -JliKlilt. 

Covetous  Man.    A  Tantalus  (^/.r.). 

"  In  the  full  fhiiid  (Stands  Tan'talus,  his  slviu 
Waslied  o'er  in  vain,  for  e>.  er  dry  witliin. 
He  catclies  at  the  stream  with  greedy  lips— 
Froni  his  parched  month  the  wanton  torrent 

slips.  .  .  . 
Cliam-'e  bnt  the  name,  this  fable  is  thy  story  : 
Thou  in  a  flood  of  useless  wealth  dost  ghn-y, 
Whh-h  thou  canst  only  touch,  hut  never  taste." 
Cnwlcij  :  ILjrace,  satire  i. 

Cow.  The  cow  that  nourished  Ymir 
with  four  streams  of  milk  was  called 
Audhumla.      {Scandinavian  inijtholof/i/.) 

{Sec  AUDHUJILA.) 

Cnrst  cows.     {See  under  CuEST.) 

The  u-hiter  the  cow,  the  surer  is  it  to  r/o 

to  the  altar.     The  richer  the  prey,  the 

more  likely  is  it  to  be  seized, 

"  The  svsteni  of  inu>ropriations  grew  so  rapidly 
that,  in  the  course  of  three  centuries,  more  than 
a  third  part  of  all  the  heneflces  in  Englaiul 
became  such,  ;iiul  those  the  richest,  for  the  whiter 
the  cow,  the  surer  was  it  to  go  to  the  altar."— 
Blunt :  Reformation  in  England,  p.  63. 

Cow's  Tail.  ' '  Always  behind,  like 
a  cow's  tail."  "  Tanquam  coda  vituli." 
{Petroiiius.) 

The  cow  knoivs  not  the  worth  of  her  tail 
till  she  loses  it,  and  is  troubled  with  flies, 
which  her  tail  brushed  off. 
"  What  we  have  we  prize  not  to  the  worth 
Whiles  we  enjoy  it  ;  Out  being  lack'd  and  lost, 
Why,  then  we  rack  the  value.'' 

Sliakcspeare:  Much  Ado  about  Notliino,  iv.  1. 

Cow-lick.  A  tuft  of  hair  on  the 
human    forehead,    sometimes    called    a 


Coward 


302 


Crack 


feather ;  it  cannot  be  made  to  lie  in 
the  same  direction  as  the  rest  of  the  hair 
by  brushing,  or  even  by  pomatum. 
When  cows  lick  their  hides  they  make 
the  hair  stand  on  end. 

"  This  term  must  have  been  adopted  from  a 
oiiiuparison  with  that  part  of  a  .  .  .  cow's  hide 
where  the  Ijairs, having  ditt'erent  directions, meet 
and  form  a  projecting  riiK'i-.  siipiinsed  to  lie  occa- 
sioned by  the  animals  lickin'-r  tliemselves."— 
Biocliett:  Glossary  of  Xnrtli-Cvantrii  ^Yords. 

Coward  (anciently  written  culvard) 
is  either  from  the  French,  couard,  ori- 
ginally wi'itten  culrcrt,  from  culver  (a 
pigeon),  iiigeon-livered  being  still  a 
common  expression  for  a  coward ;  or 
else  from  the  Latin,  chIhih  rcr'for,  to 
turn  tail  (Sj)anish,  cobarde  ;  Portuguese, 
covarde ;  Italian,  codardo,  "a  coward;  " 
Latin,  cauda,  "ataU").  AheastcoKrirdcd, 
in  heraldry,  is  one  drawn  with  its  coue 
or  tail  between  its  legs.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  practice  of  beasts,  who  sneak  off 
in  this  manner  when  they  are  cowed. 

Cowper.  Called  "  Author  of  'J7ip 
Task,''''  from  his  principal  poem.  (1731- 
1800.) 

Cowper  Law,  a  corruption  of  Cupar, 
etc.,  is  trying  a  man  after  execution. 
Similar  ex2iressions  are  Jedwood,  Jed- 
dart,  and  Jedburgh  justice.  Cowper 
justice  had  its  lise  from  a  baron- bail e 
in  Coupar-Angus,  before  heritable  juris- 
dictions were  abolished.  {See  Lydford 
Law.) 

"Cowper  Law,  as  we  say  in  Scotland— hang  a 
man  first,  and  then  judge  \i\n\."— Lord  deBos: 
Tower  uf  Loudon. 

Coxcomb.  An  empty-headed,  vain 
person.  The  ancient  Ucensed  jesters 
were  so  called  because  they  wore  a 
cock's  comb  in  theu'  caps. 

"  t'oxcimilis.  an  ever  enuity  race, 
Are  trumpets  of  their  own  dissrace." 

Gay :  Fables,  xix. 

"  Let  me  hire  him  too  ;  here's  my  coxcomb.'' 

Shakespeare :  Kino  Lear,  i.  -1. 

The  Prince  of  Coxcombs.  Charles 
Joseph,  Prince  de  Ligne.     (1535-1614.) 

Richard  II.  of  England  is  sometimes 
called  the  Coxcomb.     (1366,  1377-HOO.) 

Henri  III.  of  Fx'auce  was  called  ie 
Jfir/iwii.  which  means  pretty  well  the 
same  thing.     (1551,  1574-1589.) 

Coxeyites  (3syl.).  Followers  of  Mr. 
["General"]  Coxey,  of  the  United 
States,  who  induced  50,000  labourers 
from  sundry  states  "to  march"  to 
Washington  to  overawe  the  Government 
into  giving  employment  to  the  unem- 
ployed. The  word  is  now  employed  to 
express  labour  processions  and  masses 
organised  to  force  concessions  to  work- 
men. 


Coxswain.  Jtoff  is  Norwegian  for 
a  cockboat ;  Welsh,  cur/i  ;  Italian,  rocca, 
etc. ;  and  siraiii,  Anglo-Saxon  for  a 
servant,  superintendent,  or  baihff.  {See 
Cockboat.) 

Coyne  and  Livery.  Food  and  en- 
tertainment for  soldiers,  and  forage  for 
their  horses,  exacted  by  an  anny  from 
the  people  whose  lands  they  passed 
through,  or  from  towns  where  they 
rested  on  their  march. 

Coys'tril,  Coystrel,  or  Kestrel.  A 
degenerate  hawk  ;  hence,  a  paltry  fellow. 
Holinshed  says,  "  costerels  or  bearers  of 
the  arms  of  barons  or  knights"  (vol.  i. 
p.  16'2) ;  and  again,  "  women,  lacke)''s, 
and  costerels  arc  considered  as  the  un- 
warlike  attendants  on  an  army"  (vol.  iii. 
27'2).  Each  of  tlic  life-guards  of  Henry 
VIII.  had  an  attendant,  called  a  coj'strel 
or  coystril.  Some  tliiiik  the  word  is  a 
corruption  of  costercf,  which  they  derive 
from  the  Latin  cotcrcl/iis  (a  peasant) ;  but 
if  not  a  corruption  of  Icstrcl,  I  should 
derive  it  from  co-strcl  (a  small  wooden 
bottle  used  by  labourers  in  harvest  time). 
^'■Vasa  qucedam  qxcc  costrell'i  rocai/tnr.'^ 
{Matthew  Paris.) 

"  He's  ft  coward  and  a  coystril  that  will  not 
drink  to  my  niece."— Sluihxspcure :  Twelfth  Xiglit, 
i..3. 

Cozen.     To  cheat.      (Armoric,   co/k,-- 
zi/eiu  ;  Russian,  knsiiodci ;  Arabic,  gausa ; 
Ethiopic,  chasaica  ;  ovx  chouse.') 
"  I  think  it  no  sin 
To  cozen  him  that  would  unjustly  win." 
Shakespeare:  All's  Well  that  Euds  Welt,  i\.  -J. 

Crab  (A).  An  ill-temjjered  fellow; 
sour  as  a  crab-apple. 

'To  catch  a  crab,  in  rowing.  (See  Catch 
A  Crab.) 

Crab-cart.  The  carapace  of  a  crab. 
So  called  because  it  is  used  veiy  com- 
monly by  children  for  a  toy-cart. 

Crack,  as  a  crack  man,  a  first-rate 
fellow ;  a  crack  hand  at  cards,  a  first- 
rate  player  ;  a  crack  article,  an  excellent 
one,  i.e.  an  article  cracked  up  or  boasted 
about.  This  is  the  Latin  crcpo,  to  crack 
or  boast  about.  Hence  Lucretius  ii.  1 1 68, 
"  crepas  antiquum  genus." 
"  Indeed,  la  .'  'tis  a  noble  child;  a  crack,  madam." 
Shakespeare:  Coriohums,  i.  3. 

A  gtide  crack.    A  good  talker. 

"  To  be  a  gude  crack  .  .  .  was  essential  to  the 
trade  of  a  '  puir  body'  of  the  more  esteemed 
class."— ,Si)-  W.  Scott:  Tlie  Antiquary  (Introduc- 
tion). 

Tn  a  crack.  Instantly.  In  a  snap  of 
the  fingers,  crep'itu  digito'rum  (in  a  crack 
of  the  fingers) .     (French,  craqucr.) 

"  Une  allusion  au  bruit  de  I'ongle  contre  la  dent 
que  les  Orientaux  du  mo.\ea  age  touchaient  du 


Crack-brained 


303 


Crank 


doi?bt  quand  ils  voulaient  afflrmer  solennelle- 
meut  une  those."    Hence— 

"  Sire,  bien  vous  croi  seur  les  Dieux ; 
Mais  assc'S  vous  nueiToie  luieux 
Si'  vriiis  I'linirle  hurties  an  deut." 

Tlieatre  Fnaicuis  de  ilmjen  Age,  \\  Vu. 

Crack-brained.  Eccentric ;  slightly 
mad.     Another  form  is  "A  crack-skull." 

Crack  a  Bottle  —  i.e.  drink  one. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  mischievous  pranks 
of  the  cli-unken  frolics  of  times  gone 
by,  when  the  bottles  and  glasses  were 
broken  during  the  bout.  Miss  Oldbuck 
says,  in  reference  to  the  same  custom, 
"  We  never  were  glass-breakers  in  this 
house,  Mr.  Lovel "  {Antiquanj):  mean- 
ing they  were  not  bottle-crackers,  or 
given  to  cU-uuken  orgies.  {See  Crush.) 
"  Dear  Tom,  this  limwii  jiii,'  that  now  foams  with 
mild  ale. 
From  which  I  now  driuk  to  sweet  Nau  of  the 

^'ale, 
Was  once  Toby  Filpot's,  a  thirsty  old  soul 
As  e'er  cracked  a  bottle,  or  fathomed  a  liowl." 
O'Keefe :  Puor  Soldier. 

Crack  a  Crib  ( To) .  To  break  into  a 
house  as  a  thief.     (Sir  Ceib.) 

Crack  Up  a  Person  ( To) .  To  praise 
him  highly.     (See  Crack.) 

Cracked.    Made  a  bankrupt.    A  play 

on   "  rupt,"   which  is  from  the    Latin 

riniipo,  to  break. 
Cracked  Pipkins.     Cracked  pi p/iins 

are  (Uncovered  hij  t/icir  Koiind.     Ignorance 

is  betrayed  by  speech. 

"  They  bid  you  talk— my  honest  sone: 
Bids  you  for  ever  hold  your  tongue ; 
Silence  with  some  is  wisdom  most  profound- 
Cracked  pipkins  arc  discovered  by  the  sound." 
I'eter  I'hidar :  Lord  B.  and  his  Mvtion.i. 

Cracker.    So  called  from  the  noise  it 

makes  when  it  goes  off. 

Cracknells  (from  the  French  craqiie- 
li>i).     A  hard,  brittle  cake. 

Cradle-land.  The  same  as  "  borough 
EngUsh,"  tmder  which  lands  descend  to 
the  youngest  son.  By  Gavelkind,  land 
passes  to  all  sons  in  equal  iiroportions. 

If  the  father  has  no  son,  then  (iu. 
cradle-land  teimres)  the  youngest  daugh- 
ter is  sole  heiress.  If  neither  Avifc,  son, 
nor  daughter,  the  yoimgest  brother 
inherits ;  if  no  brother,  the  j-oungest 
sister  is  heii- ;  if  neither  brother  nor  yet 
sister,  then  the  youngest  next  of  kin. 

Craft  {A).  A  trade  (Anglo-Saxon, 
creeft).  A  craftsman  is  a  mechanic.  A 
handicraft  is  manual  skill,  i.e.  mechanical 
skill.  And  leecheraft  is  skill  in  medicine. 
(Anglo-Saxon  Icece-crceft ;  lace,  a  doctor.) 

Craft  (A).  A  general  term  for  a 
vessel  emjiloyed  in  loading  and  unloading 
ships. 


Small  craft.  Such  vessels  as  schooners, 
sloops,  cutters,  and  so  on.  A  ship- 
builder was  at  one  time  the  prince  of 
craftsmen ,  and  his  vessels  were  work  of 
craft  emi^hatically. 

Craft.  Cunning,  or  skill  in  a  bad 
sense.  Hence  Witchcraft,  the  art  or 
cunning  of  a  witch. 

Craigmillar  Castle.  So  called  from 
Henry  de  Craigmillar,  who  built  the 
castle  in  the  twelfth  century. 

Cra'kys  of  War.  Cannons  were  so 
called  in  the  reign  of  Edward  III. 

Cram.  To  tell  what  is  not  true.  A 
craiinncr,  an  untruth.  The  allusion  is  to 
stuffing  a  jjerson  with  useless  rubbish. 

Crambe  bis  Cocta  ["  cabbage  boiled 
twice"].  A  subject  hacked  out.  Ju- 
venal says,  "  Oecidit  mit^eros  crambe  repc- 
tita  inayistros^^  (vii.  155),  alluding  to  the 
Greek  j)roverb  "i)i,s-  krambc  thanaios.'^ 

"There  was  a  disadvautai-'e  in  treadini:  this 
Border  district,  fur  it  h.ol  l.t-cu  already  ransacked 
liy  the  author  himself,  as  well  as  by  others;  and, 
unless  presented  under  a  new  light,  was  likely  to 
afford  ground  to  the  objec-tion  of  Crambe  his 
cocta."— SirW.  Scatt:  The  Munastery  (Introduction). 

Crambo.  Eepetition.  So  called  from 
a  game  which  consists  in  some  one 
setting  a  line  which  another  is  to 
rhj^me  to,  but  no  one  word  of  the  first 
line  must  occur  in  the  second. 

Jjnntb  crambo.  Pantomime  of  a  word 
in  rhyme  to  a  given  word.  Thus  if 
"cat"  is  the  given  word,  the  panto- 
mimists  would  act  Bat,  Fat,  Hat,  Mat, 
Pat,  Rat,  Sat,  etc.,  till  the  word  acted  is 
guessed. 

Crampart  (Kinr/).  The  king  who 
made  a  wooden  horse  which  would 
travel  100  miles  an  hour.  (Allcmaar  : 
Hei/nard  the  Fox,  1498.) 

Swifter  than  Cr<iinpart\'<  horse.  Quick 
as  lightning ;  quick  as  thought.  (See 
above.) 

Cramp-ring.  To  .scour  the  cramp- 
riwj.  To  be  put  into  fetters ;  to  be 
imprisoned.     The  allusion  is  obvious. 

"There's  no  nuickle  hazard  o'  scouring  the 
cramp-rint'."— .S'()-  ir.  Scott:  Ginj  ihuiiitrimj. (;h;i\i. 
xxiii. 

Crane  means  long-shanks.  (Welsh, 
ffar,  "the  shanks,"  whence  our  gaiter 
and  garter.)  Garan  is  the  long-shanked 
bird,  contracted  into  (/ran,  crane  ;  hero)i, 
is  another  form  of  the  same  word. 

Crank.  An  Abram  man  {q.v.).  So 
called  from  the  Gennan  krank  (sickly), 
whence  cranky,  "idiotic,  foolish,  full  of 
whims,"  and  cranks  (simulated  sick- 
ness).   These  beggars  were  called  cranks 


Crannock 


304 


Credat  Judaeus 


because  they    pretended    madness   and 
sickness  to  excite  compassion. 

Cran  nock.  An  Irish  measure  which, 
iu  the  days  of  Edward  II.,  contained 
eitlier  eight  or  sixteen  pecks. 

"Crannocus  fnntiiii'liit  xvj  pecks,  ('r.-iimiiro 
contiiienlc  octo   i<ccks."~£xcheqiu'i-  0/   Iictmul 

(«fC). 

Cra'paud  or  Johnutj  Grapcuid.  A 
Frenchman  ;  so  called  from  the  device  of 
the  ancient  kings  of  France,  "  three  toads 
erect,  saltant."  (Guillim's  Displaij  of 
Jfcraldric,  1611.)  Nostrada'mus,  in  the 
sixteentli  century,  called  the  French 
"  crapauds." 

Le.s  cDiciens  crapauds  prcndcront  Sara 
(Nostrada'miis).  Sara  is  the  word  Aras 
reversed,  and  when  the  French  under 
Louis  XIV.  took  Aras  from  tlie  Span- 
iards, this  verse  was  quoted  as  a  i>vo- 
phecy. 

Crape  ....  Lawn.  A  saint  in  crape 
is  twice  a  sai»t  in  lawn.  {Pope  :  Ep.  to 
Cobltam,  136.)  Crape  (a  sort  of  bom- 
l)azinc,  or  alpaca)  is  the  stuff  of  which 
cheap  clerical  gowns  used  to  be  made, 
and  here  means  one  of  the  lower  clergy  ; 
"  lawn  "  refers  to  the  lawn  sleeves  of  a 
bishop,  and  here  means  a  prelate.  A 
good  curate  is  all  very  well,  but  the  same 
goodness  iu  a  bishop  is  exalted  as  some- 
thing noteworthy. 

Cravat'.  A  corruption  of  Crabat  or 
Croat.  It  was  introduced  into  France  by 
some  French  officers  on  their  return  from 
Germany  in  1636.  The  Croats,  who 
guarded  the  Turkish  frontiers  of  Austria, 
and  acted  as  scouts  on  the  flanks  of  the 
army,  wore  linen  round  their  necks,  tied 
in  front,  and  the  officers  wore  muslin  or 
silk.  When  France  organised  a  regiment 
on  the  model  of  the  Croats,  these  linen 
neckcloths  were  imitated,  and  the  regi- 
ment was  called  "  The  Royal  Cravat." 

ThcBonnii  Cravat.  A  public-house  sign 
at  Woodchm'ch,  Kent ;  a  corruption  of 
La  bonne  corvette.  Woodchm'ch  was 
noted  for  its  smuggling  proclivities,  and 
the  "Bonnie  Cravat "  was  a  smuggler's 
hostelry. 

To  wear  a  hempen  cravat.  To  be  hanged. 

Cra'ven  means  "  your  mercy  is 
craved."  It  was  usual  in  former  times 
to  decide  controversies  by  an  appeal  to 
battle.  The  combatants  fought  with 
batons,  and  if  the  accused  could  either 
kill  liis  adversary  or  maintain  the  fight 
till  sundown,  he  was  acquitted.  If  he 
wished  to  call  oft",  he  cried  out' '  Craven ! ' ' 
and  was  held  infamous,  while  the  defend- 
ant wasadvanced  to  honour.  [Blackstone. ) 


Crawley.  Croohed  as  Craivlcii  (or) 
('rawlcji  brool\  a  river  in  Bedfordsliire. 
That  part  called  the  brook,  which  runs 
into  the  Ouse,  is  so  crooked  that  a  boat 
woidd  have  to  go  eighty  miles  in  order 
to  make  a  progress  dii'ect  of  eiglitcen. 
{F/il/cr:    Wort  hies.) 

Cray'on  {Oeofrcii).  The  nom  de 
phnne  under  which  Washington  Irving 
published  The  Sketch-Book.     (1820.) 

Creaking  Doors  hang  the  Longest. 

"  r'«  j)ot  fell-  dure  plas  rja'/u/  neiif.'''' 
"  Told  se  qui  braille  nc  chet  pas  "  (tum- 
bles not) .  Delicate  persons  often  outlive 
the  more  robust.  Those  who  have  some 
personal  affliction,  like  the  gout,  often 
live  longer  than  those  who  have  no  such 
vent. 

Create.    Make. 

(ioil  cTualccI  till-  licavcnsundlliocarlli     (llc'ii.  i.  1.) 
(Hebrew,  ciirah  ;  Urcek,  kti'^w.) 

God  made  the  llniiaiiR'nt. (Gen.  i.  7.) 

((Jivek,  troiiia). 

Cod  iimdo  the  sun  ;niii  iiii"in tGen.i.lfi.) 

(Jdrl  ,re.-itcil  till"  uTc:il  llslic.^ (Gen.  i  •jl.) 

(Hid  Miridc  llir  leirestruil  animals       ..  tGeil.  i.  25.) 
(4od  crealiMl  man  ami  minic  liini  "God- 
like"      (Gen. i. 27.') 

God  said  "  Let  us  malce  man  in  our  own  image  " 
(\erse  •_'(;),  and  so  God  creuted  \\v.\i\  in  His  image 
(verse  27). 

Cliap.  ii.  .■(.  He  rested  from  all  the  works  which 
He  had  cniiteil  and  iiiiuli: 

vh:\\\.  ii.  1.  He  )niuh;  the  earth  and  the  heavens  ; 
He  also  created  them. 

Chap.  ii.  I'L'.     lie  iiiiiile.  woman,  hut  created  man. 

Most  eeri.iinlj  cidiff  doesnotof  necessity  mean 
to  make  ..111  of  not  hill'-',  as  fishes  were  "created" 
Ir.im  waier,  and  man  was  ciealed  from  "  earth." 

Creature  (The).  Whisky  or  other 
spirits.  A  contracted  form  of  "  Creature- 
comfort." 

"  When  he  chanced  to  have  taken  an  overdose 
of  the  creature."— .Sic  W.  Scvtt :  Giiij  Maiiiieiiiig, 
chap.  xliv. 

A  drop  of  the  creature.  A  little 
whisky.  The  Irish  call  it "  a  drop  of  the 
crater." 

Creature  -  comforts.  Food  and 
other  thhigs  necessary  for  the  comfort  of 
the  body.  Man  being  supposed  to  con- 
sist of  body  and  soul,  the  body  is  the 
creature,  but  the  soul  is  the  "  vital  spark 
of  heavenly  flame." 

"  Mr.  Syueers  had  been  seeking  in  creature- 
comforts  [brandy  and  water]  temporary  forget- 
f Illness  of  his  unpleasant  situation."— iJicfcews  ; 
Nicholas  Xicklehi/. 

Credat  Judseus  or  Credat  Judseus 
Apella.  Tell  that  to  the  Marines. 
That  may  do  for  Afiella,  but  I  don't 
believe  a  word  of  it.  Who  this  Apella 
was,  nobody  knows.  {Horace:  1  Satires, 
v;  line  100.) 

V  Cicero  mentions  a  person  of  this 
name  in  Ad  Atticum  (12,  ep.  19) ;  but  see 

DUCANGE. 


Credence  Table 


So' 


Cressida 


Credence  Table.  The  table  near 
the  altar  on  which  the  bread  and  wine 
are  deposited  before  they  are  conse- 
crated. In  former  times  food  was 
placed  on  a  credence-table  to  be  tasted 
previously  to  its  being  set  before  the 
guests.  This  was  done  to  assure  the 
guests  that  the  meat  was  not  poisoned. 
The  Italian  crcdoiza're  means  to  taste 
meats  placed  on  the  crcdcn'za.  (Italian, 
Id  crcdoiza,  a  shelf  or  buffet ;  Greek, 
krcds,  food.) 

Credit  Foncier  (French).  A  coni- 
joany  licensed  to  borrow  money  for  city 
and  other  imi^rovements  connected  with 
estates.  A  board  of  guardians  may 
form  such  a  company,  and  their  security 
would  be  the  parish  rates.  The  money 
borrowed  is  repaid  by  instalments  with 
interest.  The  word  funcler  means 
"landed,"  as  impot  fancier  (land-tax), 
hien  fancier  (landed  propertj'),  and  so  on. 

Credit  Mobilicr  (French).  A  com- 
paTiy  licensed  to  take  in  hand  all  sorts 
of  trading  entei^prises,  such  as  railways, 
and  to  carry  on  the  business  of  stock- 
jobbers. The  word  mobilier  means 
personal  property,  general  stock,  as  bien 
mobilicr  (personal  chattels),  mobilier  rif 
ct  mart  (live  and  dead  stock), 

Cre'kenpit.  A  fictitious  river  near 
Husterloe,  according  to  the  invention  of 
Master  Reynard,  who  calls  on  the  Hare 
to  attest  the  fact.     {licijiiard  the  Fox.) 

Cremo'na.  An  organ  stop,  a  cor- 
ruption of  the  Italian  cormoriie,  which  is 
the  German  krumnihorn,  an  organ  stop 
of  eight  feet  pitch ;  so  called  from  a 
■wind-instrument  made  of  wood,  and 
bent  outwards  in  a  circular  arc  {krttmm- 
]iorii,  crooked  horn) . 

Cremo'nas.  Violins  of  the  gi-eatest 
excellence ;  so  called  from  Cremo'na, 
where  for  many  years  lived  some  makers 
of  them  who  have  gained  a  world-wide 
notoriety,  such  as  An'drea  Ama'ti  and 
Antonio  his  son,  Anto'nius  Stradiva'rius 
his  pupil,  and  Giuseppe  Guame'rius  the 
pupil  of  Stradiva'rius.  Cremona  has 
long  since  lost  its  reputation  for  this 
manufactui'e. 

"  Iq  silvis  viva  silui  ;  cano'ra  jam  mor'tua  cano." 

A  motto  on  a  Cremona. 
Speechless,  alive,  i  heard  the  featherea  throns  ; 
>ow,  bcMii,!,'  dead,  I  emulate  their  son?.    E.  C.  B. 

Cre'ole  (2  syl.).  A  descendant  of 
white  peojile  born  in  Mexico,  South 
America,  and  the  West  Indies.  (Spanish 
criado,  a  servant ;  diminutive  criaddln, 
contracted  into  creollo,  Creole.)  {See 
Mulatto.) 

20 


Creole  dialects.  The  various  jargons 
spoken  by  the  West  India  slaves. 

Crep'idam.  Supra  crcp'idam.  Talk- 
ing about  subjects  above  one's  metier, 
meddling  and  muddling  matters  of 
which  you  know  little  or  uotliing.  {See 
Cobbler.) 

Cres'cent.  Tradition  says  that 
"  Philiii,  tlie  father  of  Alexander,  meet- 
ing with  great  difficulties  Lu  the  siege  of 
Byzantium,  set  the  workmen  to  under- 
mine the  walls,  but  a  crescent  moon  dis- 
covered the  design,  which  miscarried ; 
consequently  the  Byzantines  erected  a 
statue  to  Diana,  and  the  crescent  became 
the  symbol  of  the  state." 

Another  legend  is  that  Othman,  the 
Sultan,  saw  in  a  vision  a  crescent  moon, 
which  kept  increasing  till  its  horns  ex- 
tended from  east  to  west,  and  he  adopted 
the  crescent  of  his  dream  for  his  stan- 
dard, adding  the  motto,  "  Donee  rep'leat 
orbein.''^ 

Crescent  City  {The).  New  Orleans, 
in  Louisiana,  U.S. 

Cres'cito  Creseit  sab  pon'dere  Virtus 
(Virtue  thrives  best  in  adver.sity) .  The 
allusion  is  to  the  palm-tree,  which  grows 
better  when  pressed  by  an  incumbent 
weight. 

Many  plants  gi-ow  the  better  for  being 
pressed,  as  gi-ass,  which  is  wonderfully 
improved  by  being  rolled  frequently 
with  a  heavy  roller,  and  by  being  trodden 
down  by  sheep. 

Cressell'c  (2  syl.).  A  wooden  rattle 
used  formerly  in  the  Romish  Church 
during  Passion  week,  instead  of  bells,  to 
give  notice  of  Divine  worship.  Supposed 
to  represent  the  ruttling  in  the  throat  of 
Christ  while  hanging  on  the  cross. 

Cres'set.  A  beacon-light ;  properly 
"  a  little  cross."  So  called  because  ori- 
ginally it  was  sunnounted  by  a  little 
cross.     (French,  croisette.) 

Cress'ida,  daughter  of  Calchas  the 
Grecian  jiriest,  was  beloved  by  Trotlus, 
one  of  the  sons  of  Priam.  They  vowed 
eternal  fidelity  to  each  other,  and  as 
pledges  of  their  vow  Trod  us  gave  the 
maiden  a  sleeve,  and  Cressid  gave  the 
Trojan  prince  a  glove.  Scarce  had  the 
vow  been  made  when  an  exchange  of 
prisoners  was  agreed  to.  Diomed  gave 
up  three  Trojan  piinces,  and  was  to 
receive  Cressid  in  lieu  thereof.  Cressid 
vowed  to  remain  constant,  and  Troilus 
swore  to  rescue  her.  She  was  led  off  to 
the  Grecian's  tent,  and  soon  gave  all  her 
affections  to  Diomed — nay,  even  bade 


Cressweil 


806 


Crillon 


him  wear  the  sleeve   that   Troihis  had 
given  her  iu  token  of  his  love. 

"As  false 
As  air,  as  water,  wind,  or  sandy  earth. 
As  fox  to  lam)>,  as  wolf  to  beifer's  calf, 
Pard  to  the  hind,  or  step-dame  to  her  son  ; 
'  Yea,'  let  them  say,  to  stick  the  heart  of  false- 
hood, 
'  As  false  as  Cressid.'  " 

t<liahe.'']>care:  Troilus  and  Crcssida,  iii.  2. 

Cressweil  {Madame).  A  woman  of 
infamous  character  wlio  bequeathed  £10 
for  a  funeral  sermon,  in  which  nothing 
ill  sliould  be  said  of  her.  The  Duke  of 
Buckingham  wrote  the  sennon,  which 
was  as  follows  :  "  All  I  shall  say  of  her 
is  this — she  was  born  veil,  she  married 
icell,  lived  tcell,  and  died  irell ;  for  she 
was  born  at  Shad-well,  married  to  Cress- 
well,  lived  at  Clerken-well,  and  died  in 
Bride-well." 

Cressy  {Battle  of).  Won  by  Edward 
III.  and  the  Black  Prince  over  Philippe, 
VI.  of  France,  August  26,  1346. 

"  Cressy  was  lost  by  kickshaws  and  soup  meagre." 
Fcnton  :  Prol.  to  SoiitJicni'.i  Spartan  Dame. 

Crestfallen.  Disi^irited.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  lighting  cocks,  whose  crest 
falls  in  defeat  and  rises  rigid  and  of  a 
deep  red  colour  in  victory. 

"  Shall  I  seem  crest-fallen  in  my  father's  sifrht  ?" 
Shakcsvcare :  Jiivlinrd  //.,  i.  1. 

Crete.  Hound  of  Crete.  A  blood- 
hound. 

"  Coupe  le  gorge,  that's  the  word.     I  thee  defy 
again, 
O  hound  of  Crete." 

Shakespeare:  Ilcnry  V.,\\.  1. 

The  Infamy  of  Crete.     The  Minotaur. 

"  There  lay  stretched 
The  infamy  of  Crete,  detested  brood 
Of  the  feigned  heifer." 

Dmite  :  Hell,  xii.  (Cary's  translation). 

Cre'ticus.  Metellus,  the  Roman 
general,  was  so  called  because  he  con- 
qttered  Crete  (Candia). 

Cre'tinism.  Mental  imbecility  accom- 
panied by  goitre.  So  called  from  the 
Cretins  of  the  Alps.  The  word  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  Christian  {C/irrtiei/),  because, 
being  baptised,  and  only  idiots,  they  were 
"  washed  from  original  sin,"  and  incap- 
able of  actual  sin.  Similarly,  idiots  are 
called  ■i/tiiocenfs.  (French  ereiin,  critin- 
isme.) 

Crex.  White  bullace.  (Dutch,  Jcrieclr, 
cherry ;  Latin,  eer'asiim.) 

Crib  {A).  Slang  for  a  house  or 
dwelling,  as  a  "  Stocking  Crib  "  {i.e.  a 
hosiery),  a  "Thimble  Crib"  (i.e.  a 
silversmith's) .  Crib  is  an  ox  -  stall. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  crib,  a  stall,  a  bed,  etc.) 

."  Where  no  oxen  are,  the  crib  is  clean."— Prov. 
XIV.  4. 


A  cMld^s  erib  is  a  child's  bed.  {See 
preeedinrj  column.) 

Crib  {A).  A  petty  theft;  a  literal 
translation  of  some  foreign  work,  stealth- 
ily employed  to  save  trouble. 

"We  are  prlad  to  turn  from  the  choruses  of 
^^ischylus,  or  the  odes  of  Horace,  coiifected  in 
English  verse  liy  some  petty  schohir,  to  the 
original  text,  and  the  lioujcly  help  of  a  school- 
boy's i:r\hr~Balzae's  Shorter  Storh:< :  I'rifatoni 
Xotice,  p.  Hi. 

Crib.  To  steal  small  articles.  (Saxon, 
eri/bb  ;   Iri.sh,  ^rib ;   our  [/rub,  grapple, 

(jrip,  (jripe,  etc.) 

Cricket. 

The  diminutive  of  the  Anglo-Saxon 
eric,  a  staff  or  crutch.  In  the  Bodleian 
library  is  a  MS.  (1344)  picture  of  a  monk 
bowling  a  ball  to  another  monk,  who  is 
about  to  strike  it  with  a  ciic.  In  the 
field  are  other  monks.  There  are  no 
wickets,  but  the  batsman  stands  before 
a  hole,  and  the  art  of  the  game  was 
either  to  get  the  ball  into  the  hole,  or 
to  catch  it. 

Perhaps  the  earliest  mention  of  the 
word  "  crickett  "  is  ir)93.  John  Derrick, 
gent.,  tells  us  when  he  tittended  the 
"free  school  of  Guldeforde,  he  and  his 
fellowes  did  runne  and  ])lay  there  at 
crickett  and  other  plaies."  It  was  a 
Wvkehamist  game  in  tlie  days  of  Eliza- 
beth. 

A  single  stump  was  placed  in  the 
seventeenth  century  at  each  hole  to 
point  out  the  place  to  bowlers  and 
fielders.  In  1700  two  stumjis  were  used 
24  inches  ajiart  and  12  inches  high,  with 
long  bails  atop. 

A  middle  stump  was  added  by  the 
Hambledon  Club  in  1775,  and  the 
height  of  the  stumps  was  raised  to  22 
inches. 

In  1814  they  were  made  26  inches, 
and  iu  1817  they  were  reduced  to  22 
inches-  the  present  height.  The  length 
of  run  is  22  yards. 

The  first  cricket  club  was  Hambledon, 
which  practically  broke  up  in  1791,  but 
existed  in  name  till  1825. 

Cri'key.  A  profane  oath  ;  a  per- 
verted form  of  the  word  Christ. 

Cril'lon.  Where  wert  thou,  Crillon  ? 
Crillon,  surnamed  tlie  Brave,  in  his  old 
age  went  to  church,  and  listened  in- 
tently to  the  story  of  the  Crucifixion. 
In  the  middle  of  the  narrative  he  grew 
excited,  and,  unable  to  contain  himself, 
cried  out,  "  0«  itais-tu,  Crillon?''^ 
(What  were  you  about,  Crillon,  to  allow 
of  such  things  as  these ':'). 

N.B. — Louis  de  Berton  des  Balbes  de 
Crillon  was  one  of  the  greatest  captain^ 


Crimen 


307 


Critic 


of  the  sixteenth  century.    Bom  in  Pro- 
vence 1541,  died  1615. 

Henri  IV.,  after  the  battle  of  Argives  (1589), 
wrote  to  Cnlliin  the  following  letter :  "  Preiul-toi, 
brave  Crillon,  nnus  avons  vaincit  d  Argues,  et  tu  n'y 
e'taispas."  The  first  and  last  part  of  this  letter 
have  tiecome  iiroverbial. 

Crimen  Isesae  Majestatis  (Latin). 
High  treason. 

Crimp.  A  decoy ;  a  man  or  woman 
that  is  on  the  look-out  to  decoy  the  un- 
wary. It  is  more  properly  applied  to  an 
agent  for  supplj'ing  sliips  with  sailors,  but 
these  agents  are  generally  in  league  with 
pubUc-houses  and  private  lodging-houses 
of  low  character,  into  which  they  decoy 
the  sailors  and  relieve  them  of  their 
money  under  one  pretence  or  another. 
(Welsh,  criuipiciw,  to  squeeze  or  piuch; 
Norwegian,  kri/iiipc,  a  sponge.) 

Crimp  of  Death  (A).  A  thief - 
catcher.  A  crimj)  is  a  decoy,  especially 
of  soldiers  and  sailors.     (See  above.) 

"Here  lie  three  crimps  of  death,  knocked  down 
by  Fate, 
Of  justice  the  staunch  blood-hounds,  too,  so 
keen." 

Peter  Pindar :  Epitaph  on  Toicnsend, 
JUtcmanus,  and  Jealous. 

Cringle  (Tom).  An  excellent  sailor 
character  in  the  naval  story  by  Michael 
Scott,  called  To/ii.  Criiifflc's  Log,  first 
imblished  in  BlackicoocVs  Magazine. 

Cripple.  A  battered  or  bent  six- 
pence ;  so  called  because  it  is  hard  to 
make  it  go. 

Crip'plegate.  St.  Giles  is  the  patron 
saint  of  cripples  and  beggars,  and  was 
himself  a  cripple.  Chm'ches  dedicated 
to  this  saint  are,  therefore,  in  the  suburbs 
of  large  towns,  as  St.  Giles  of  London, 
Norwich,  Cambridge,  Salisbmy,  etc. 
Cripplegate,  London,  was  so  called 
before  the  Conquest  from  the  number 
of  cripples  who  resorted  thither  to  beg. 
{Stoa-e.) 

Criss-cross  Row  {Clirist-cross  roic). 
Tlie  ABC  horn-book,  containing  the 
alphabet  and  nine  digits.  The  most 
ancient  of  these  infant-school  books  had 
the  letters  arranged  in  the  form  of  a 
Latin  cross,  Avith  A  at  the  top  and  Z  at 
the  bottom ;  but  afterwards  the  letters 
were  aiTanged  in  lines,  and  a  -|-  was 
placed  at  the  beginning  to  remind  the 
learner  that  "The  fear  of  the  Lord  is 
the  beginning  of  wisdom." 

"  Mortals  ne'er  shall  know 
More  than  contained  of  old  the  Chris'-cross  row." 
Tickell :  The  Horn-Book. 

CHsh'na.  An  incarnate  deity  of 
perfect  beauty.  King  Canza,  being  in- 
foiTaed  that  a  child  of  the  family  of 


Devaci  would  overturn  his  throne,  gave 
orders  to  destroy  all  the  male  infants 
that  were  born.  "\Mien  Crishna  was 
bom,  his  brother  conveyed  him  secretly 
to  the  house  of  a  shepherd  king ;  but 
Canza  discovered  his  retreat,  and  sent 
the  monster  Kakshas  to  poison  him.  The 
tale  says  the  infant  child  sucked  the 
monster  to  death,  and  so  escaped.  As 
he  grew  up,  his  beauty  was  so  divine 
that  all  the  ijrincesses  of  Hindustan  fell 
in  love  with  him,  and  even  to  the  present 
hour  he  is  the  Apollo  of  India  and  the 
"idol  of  women."  His  images  are 
always  painted  a  deep  azure  colour.  (6'/r 
77'.  Jones.)     {See  Kama.) 

Cri'sis  properly  means  the  "  ability 
to  judge."  Hippoc'rates  said  that  all 
diseases  had  their  periods,  when  the 
humours  of  the  body  ebbed  and  flowed 
like  the  tide  of  the  sea.  These  tidal 
days  he  called  critical  dags,  and  the  tide 
itself  a  o'isis,  because  it  was  on  these 
days  the  physician  could  determine 
whether  the  disorder  was  taking  a  good 
or  a  bad  tm'n.  The  seventh  and  all  its 
multiples  were  critical  days  of  a  favour- 
able character.  (Greek,  krino,  to  judge 
or  detennine.) 

Crispin.  A  shoemaker.  St.  Crispin 
was  a  shoemaker,  and  was  therefore 
chosen  for  the  patron  saint  of  the  craft. 
It  is  said  that  two  brothers,  Crispin  and 
Crispian,  bom  in  Rome,  went  to  Soissons, 
in  France  (a.d.  303),  to  propagate  the 
Christian  religion,  and  maintained  them- 
selves wholly  by  making  and  mending 
shoes.  Probably  the  tale  is  fabulous, 
for  crepis  is  Greek  for  a  shoe,  Latin 
crepid-a,  and  St.  Crepis  or  Crepid  became 
Crepin  and  Crespin. 

St.  Cfispin^s  Bag.  October  25th,  the 
day  cf  the  battle  of  Agincourt.  Shake- 
speare makes  Crispin  Crispian  one 
person,  and  not  two  brothers.  Hence 
Henry  V.  says  to  his  soldiers — 

"  And  Crispin  Crispian  shall  ne'er  go  by  .  .  . 
But  we  in  it  shall  be  remembered." 

Shakespeare:  Uenry  V.,  iv.  3. 

St.  Crispin'' s  holidag.  Every  Monday, 
with  those  who  begin  the  working  week 
on  Tuesday  ;  a  no-work  day  with  shoe- 
makers.    {See  Ceispin.  ) 

St.    Crispbi's  lance.      A  shoemaker's 

awl.     In  French,  '■^ Lance  de  St.  Crepin.'''' 

Crispin  is  the  patron  saint  of  shoemakers. 

The  French  argot  for  a  leather  purse  is  une 
cr^pine, 

Crite'rion.  A  standard  to  judge  by. 
(Greek,  krino,  to  judge.) 

Critic.  A  judge;  an  arbiter.  (Greek, 
kri/io,  to  judge.) 


Croaker 


308 


Crone 


Critic.  A  captious,  malignant  critic  is 
called  a  Zoilus  {q.v.) 

"'Aud  what  (if  this  new  book  tbe  whole  world 
makes  such  a  mut  about  ?'  'Oh,  it  is  out  of  all 
liluuib,  my  lord  ;  quite  an  irregular  thiug  !  not 
one  <if  the  aiiLrles  at  the  four  corners  is  a  right 
angle.  I  had  my  rule  and  conipasses  in  my 
liocket.'    '  Kxcellent  critic  ! ' 

"  'And  for  the  epic  poem  your  lordship  liade  nie 
look  at,  updii  taking  the  length,  breadtli,  lieiglit, 
and  depth  id  it,  and  trying  them  at  home  up  m  an 
exact  scale  of  Bossu's  [Bossut's],  'tis  out,  my  lord, 
In  every  one  of  its  dimensions.'  'Adniiralfle  con- 
noisseur ! '  "Sterne :  Tristram  Slumdy,  vol.  iii. 
chap.  xii. 

V  The  abbe  Charles  Bossiit  (1730- 
1814)  was  a  noted  mathematician  and 
geometer. 

Frince  of  critics.  Aristarchos,  of  By- 
zantium, who  compiled  the  rhapsodies  of 
Homer.     (Second  century  B.C.) 

Stop-watch  critics. 

'"And  how  dicKiarrick  speak  tlie  siilil.j.iuy  last 
night?'  '<;li,  against  all  rule,  my  lorcl.iunst  un- 
grammatically, iictwixt  the  sul.staiitivc  and  the 
adjective,  which  should  agree  tcjget  her  in  nuniher, 

case,  and  gender,  he  made  a  breach,  thus stipp- 

ping  as  if  the  point  wanted  settling;  and  betwixt 
the  nominative  case,  which,  your  lordship  knows, 
should  govern  the  verb,  he  suspended  his  voice 
in  the  epilogue  a  dozen  times,  three  seconds  and 
three-lif  ths  by  a  stop-watch,  my  lord,  each  time.' 
'  Admirable  grammarian  ! '  '  But  in  suspending 
his  voice  was  the  sense  suspended  likewise  ?  Diil 
no  expre.ssion  of  attitude  or  ccuintenance  till  up 
the  chasm?  Was  the  eye  silent  ?  Bid  you  nar- 
rowly look?'  'I  looked  only  at  the  stop-watch, 
my  lord.'  '  Excellent  oliserver  I  '  "Sterne :  Tris- 
tram Sliand!/,  vol.  iii.  chap.  xii. 

Croak'er  (2  syl.).  A  raven,  so  called 
from  its  croak;  one  who  takes  a  de- 
sponding view  of  things.  Goldsmith,  in 
Ins  Good-naticrccl  ILui,  has  a  character 
so  named. 

Croakumshire.  Northumberland  is 
so  called  from  the  peculiar  croaking  of 
the  natives  in  speaking.  This  is  especi- 
ally observable  in  Newcastle  and  Mor- 
peth, where  the  people  are  said  to  be 
born  with  a  burr  in  their  throats,  which 
prevents  their  giving  effect  to  the 
letter  r. 

Croc  mitaine  (A).  A  fire-eater; 
one  always  ready  to  quarrel  and  fight. 

{See  CEOatTEMITAINE.) 

Crocodile  (3  syl.).  A  symbol  of 
deity  among  the  Egj'ptiaus,  because  it 
is  the  only  aquatic  animal,  says  Plu- 
tarch, which  has  its  eyes  covered  with  a 
thin  transi^arent  membrane,  by  reason 
of  which  it  sees  and  is  not  seen  ;  so  God 
sees  all,  Himself  not  being  seen.  To 
this  he  subsequently  adds  another  reason, 
saying,  "The  Egyptians  worship  God 
symbolically  in  the  crocodile,  that  being 
the  only  animal  without  a  tongue,  like 
the  Divine  Logos,  which  standeth  not  in 
need  of  speech."  {De  Iside  et  Osiride, 
vol.  ii.  p.  381.) 

V  Achilles  Tatius  says,  "  The  number 


of  its  teeth  equals  the  number  of  days  in 
a  year."  Auotlier  tradition  is,  that 
during  the  seven  days  held  sacred  to 
Apis,  the  crocodile  will  harm  no  one. 

Crocodile  {Kimj).  A  king  wlio  de- 
vours his  peo2)le,  or  at  least  their  sub- 
stance. Browne,  in  his  'Travels,  tells  us 
that  there  is  a  king  crocodile,  as  there  is  a 
queen  bee.  The  king  crocodile  lias  no  tail. 

Crocodile's  Eye.  Hieroglyiihic  for 
the  morning. 

Croc'odile's  Tears.  Hypocritical 
tears.  The  tale  is,  tliat  crocodiles  moan 
and  sigh  like  a  person  in  deep  distress, 
to  alhirc  travellers  to  the  spot,  and  even 
shed  tears  over  their  prey  while  iu  the 
act  of  devouring  it. 

"  As  the  mournful  crocodile 
AVith  sorrow  snares  relenting  iiassengers." 
Shakespeare:  2  llenri/  17.,  iii.  I. 

Crocum    in    Ciliciam    ferre.      To 

carr}'  coals  to  Newcastle.  As  Cilicia 
abounds  with  saflfron,  to  send  it  there 
would  be  needless  and  extravagant 
excess.     For  .similar  iihrascs,  sec  Alcinoo 

POMA   DARE,  NOCTUAS   AtHENAS,  COALS. 

Croesus.  Jiich  as  Cra-sns.  Croesus, 
King  of  Lydia,  was  so  i-icli  and  powerful 
that  all  the  wise  men  of  Greece  were 
drawn  to  his  court,  aud  his  name  be- 
came proverbial  for  wealth.  (B.C.  500- 
546.)     {Sec  Gyges.) 

Crom'eruach'.  Chief  idol  of  the 
Irish  before  the  preaching  of  St.  Patrick. 
It  was  a  gold  or  silver  image  surrounded 
by  twelve  little  brazen  ones. 

Cromlech.  A  large  stone  resting  on 
two  or  more  others,  like  a  table.  (Welsh, 
crom,  bent ;  t/ee/i,  a  fiat  stone.) 

Weyland  Smith's  cave  (Berkshire), 
Trevethy  stone  (Cornwall),  I^t's  Coty 
House  (Kent).  Irby  and  Mangles  saw 
twenty-seven  structm-es  just  like  these 
on  the  banks  of  the  Jordan  ;  at  Plas 
Newydd  (Anglesey)  are  two  cromlechs ; 
in  Cornwall  they  are  numerous  ;  so  are 
they  in  Wales  ;  some  few  are  found  in 
Ireland,  as  the  "  killing-stone  "  iu  Loutli. 
In  Brittany,  Denmark,  Germany,  and 
some  other  i^arts  of  Eui'ope,  cromlechs 
are  to  be  found. 

Cromwell  in  the  part  of  "Tactus." 
{Sec  Tactus.) 

Crone,  properly  speaking,  means  a 
ewe  whose  teeth  are  worn  out ;  but 
metaphorically  it  means  any  toothless 
old  beldam.  (Irish,  crioiia,  old;  allied 
to  the  Greek  t/erdii,  an  old  man.) 

"Take  up  the  bastard  ;  take  't  up,  T  say  ;  give  't 
to  thy  cvoue." Shakespeare :  Winter's  Tale,  ii.  3. 


Cronian  Sea 


309 


Cross 


Cro'nian  Sea.    The  north  polar  sea. 

Pliiiy  says,  "  A  Thule  lotius  diei  ncivif/a- 
tio'ne  nmre  concretmn,rt  iwiiiutllis croninm 
appcUa'tiiry     {Xatiiral  Ilistorij,  iv.  16.) 

"  As  when  two  polar  winds  lilowing  adverse 
Upon  the  Cronian  sea." 

Milton  ;  Paradise  Lost,  x.  290. 

Cro'ny.  A  familiar  friend,  yln  old 
croni/  is  an  intimate  of  times  gone  by. 
Probably  crone  with  the  diminutive  ic 
for  endearment,  and  equivalent  to  "  dear 
old  fellow,"  "dear  old  boy."  {See 
Ceone.) 

Crook  in  the  Lot,  T/iere  is  a  crook 
ill  the  lot  of  ereri/oiie.  There  is  vexa- 
tion bound  up  in  every  person's  lot  of 
life,  a  skeleton  in  the  cupboard  of  every 
house.  A  crook  in  a  stick  is  a  bend,  a 
part  where  the  stick  does  not  run 
straight,  hence  a  "shepherd's  crook." 
When  lots  were  di-awn  by  bits  of  stick, 
it  was  desirable  to  get  sticks  which  were 
smooth  and  straight ;  but  it  is  veiy  hard 
to  find  one  without  a  crook,  knot,  or 
some  other  defect.  Boston  has  a  book 
entitled  T/ie  Crook  in  the  Lot. 

Crooked  as  Crawley.  (SVr  Craw- 
ley.) 

Crooked  Sixpence  (A).  Said  to 
bring  luck.     {See  Money.) 

Crooked  Stick  (A).  A  self-willed 
fellow  who  will  neither  lead  nor  drive, 
neither  be  led  nor  driven.  {See  Ceook.) 

Crop  Up  (or)  Out.  To  rise  out  of, 
to  appear  at  the  surface.  A  mining 
term.  Strata  which  rise  to  the  surface 
are  said  to  crop  out.  We  also  saj%  such 
and  such  a  subject  crops  up  from  time  to 
time — i.e.  rises  to  the  surface  ;  such  and 
such  a  thing  crops  out  of  what  you  were 
saying — i.e.  is  apropos  thereof. 

Cropper.  He  came  a  cropper.  He 
fell  head  over  heels.  To  pet  a  cropper. 
To  get  a  bad  fall.  "Neck  and  crop" 
means  altogether,  and  to  ' '  come  a 
cropper"  is  to  come  to  the  ground  neck 
and  crop. 

Croquemitaine  \cro(clc-niit-taiii'],  the 
bogie  raised  by  fear.  The  romance  so 
ciilled,  in  three  i^arts.  The  fu'st  relates 
the  bloody  tournament  at  Fransac,  be- 
tween the  champions  of  the  Moorish 
King  Marsillus  and  the  paladins  of 
Charlemagne.  The  second  is  the  Siege 
of  Saragossa  by  Charlemagne.  The 
third  is  the  allegory  of  Fear-Fortress. 
The  epilogue  is  the  disaster  at  Eonces- 
valles.  The  author  is  M.  I'Epine.  There 
is  au  English  version  by  Tom  Hood, 


illustrated  by  Gustave  Dore  (1867).    {See 
Fear-Foeteess,  Mitaine,  etc.) 

Croquet.  A  game  played  with  a 
sort  of  baudy  stick.  The  crook  was 
superseded  by  a  kind  of  mallet.  Du 
Cange  gives  '^Croque,  eroqucbois,  croquet, 
baton  arme  d''un  croc,  on  qui  est  recourbe  " 
(vol.  vii.  p.  115).  The  art  of  the  game 
is  to  strike  your  balls  through  very 
small  hoops  arranged  in  a  given  order. 

Crore  {A),  in  the  East  Indies,  means 
a  hundred  lacs  of  rupees,  equal  nomi- 
nally, in  round  numbers,  to  a  million 
sterling.     (Pronounce  cror,  Hiudustanee 

karor.) 

Cross.  The  cross  is  said  to  have 
been  made  of  four  sorts  of  wood  (palm, 
cedar,  olive,  and  cypress),  to  signify  the 
four  quarters  of  the  globe. 

"  Ligua  crucis  palnia,  cedrus,  cupressus,  oli'va." 

We  are  accustomed  to  consider  the 
sign  of  the  cross  as  wholly  a  Christian 
symbol,  originating  with  the  crucifixion 
of  our  Redeemer.  This  is  quite  errone- 
ous. In  ancient  Carthage  it  was  used 
for  ornamental  purposes.  Runic  crosses 
were  set  up  by  the  Scandinavians  as 
boundary  marks,  and  were  erected  over 
the  gi-aves  of  kings  and  heroes.  Cicero 
tells  us  {I)c  Divinatione,  ii.  27,  and  80,  81) 
that  the  augur's  staff  with  which  they 
marked  out  the  heaven  was  a  cross. 
The  ancient  Egyptians  employed  the 
same  as  a  sacred  symbol,  and  we  see  on 
Greek  sculptures,  etc.,  a  cake  with  a 
cross ;  two  such  buns  were  discovered  at 
Hercula'neum. 

It  was  a  sacred  symbol  among  the 
Aztecs  long  before  the  landing  of  Cortes. 
(Malinche.)  In  Cozumel  it  was  an  ob- 
ject of  worship  ;  in  Tabasco  it  symbolised 
the  god  of  rain ;  in  Palinque  (the  Pal- 
myra of  America)  it  is  sculptured  on  the 
walls  with  a  child  held  up  adoring  it. 

"The  cross  is  not  onlyaCbristian  symbol,  it  was 
also  a  Mexican  symbol.  It  was  one  of  the  em- 
blems of  Quetzalcoatl,  as  lord  of  the  four  cardinal 
points,  and  the  fom'  winds  that  blow'  therefrom." 
—Fiske:  Discovery  of  America,  vol.  ii.  chap.  viii. 
p.  250.) 

Cross  {in  hcraldnj) .  There  are  twelve 
crosses  in  heraldry,  called  (1)  the  ordi- 
nary cross ;  (2)  the  cross  humette,  or 
couped  ;  (3)  the  cross  urde,  or  i^ointed ; 
(4)  the  cross  i^otent ;  (5)  the  cross  cross- 
let  ;  (6)  the  cross  botonn€,  or  trefle  ;  (7) 
the  cross  moline  ;  (8)  the  cross  potence  ; 
(9)  the  cross  fleiu-y ;  (10)  the  cross  pate  ; 
(11)  the  Maltese  cross  (or  eight-pointed 
cross) ;  (12)  the  cross  cleche  and  titche. 
Some  heraldic  writers  enumerate  285 
different  kinds  of  crosses. 


Cross 


310 


Cross  and  Pile 


Cross  (a  mystic  emblem)  may  be  re- 
duced to  these  four : 

The  Greek  cross  {-{■),  found  on  Assy- 
rian tablets,  Egyptian  and  Persian  monu- 
ments, and  on  Etruscan  pottery. 

Tlie  crux  decusMta  (X),  generally 
called  St.  Andrew's  cross.  Quite  com- 
mon in  ancient  sculpture. 

The  Latin  cross  (  +  ),  or  "crux  im- 
missa."  This  symbol  is  also  found  on 
coins,  monuments,  and  medals,  long  be- 
fore the  Christian  era. 

'The  tan  cross  (t),  or  "  crux  commissa." 
Very  ancient  indeed,  and  supposed  to  be 
a  phallic  emblem. 

V  The  tau  cross  with  a  handle  (f )  is 
common  to  several  EgyiJtian  deities,  as 
Isis,  Osiris,  etc.  ;  and  is  the  emblem  of 
immortality  and  life  generally. 

Everyo)ie  must  bear  his  oicn  cross. 
His  own  burden  or  troubles.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  the  law  that  the  person  con- 
demned to  be  crucified  was  to  cany  his 
cross  to  the  jilace  of  execution. 

Get  on  the  cross.  Get  into  bad  ways  ; 
not  go  straight. 

•  "  It's  bard  lines  to  tliink  a  fellow  must  grow  up 
and  «r(!t  on  the  cross  iu  spite  of  himself,  and 
come  to  the  callow's  foot  at  last,  whetber  he 
likes  it  or  not. "— iioWrejt'ood ;  Robbery  Under  Arms, 
chap.  viii. 

The  judgment  of  the  cross.  An  ordeal 
instituted  in  the  reign  of  Charlemagne. 
The  plaintiff  and  defendant  were  re- 
quired to  cross  their  arms  upon  their 
breast,  and  he  who  could  hold  out  the 
longest  gained  the  suit. 

Oh  the  cross.  Not  "  on  the  square," 
not  straightforward.  To  get  anything 
"  on  the  cross  "is  to  get  it  unfairly  or 
surreptitiously. 

8ee  KosiCEUCiANS. 

Cross  {To). 

Cross  it  ojf  or  out.  Cancel  it  by  run- 
ning your  pen  across  it.  To  cancel  {q.v.) 
means  to  mark  it  with  lattice  lines. 

Cross,  ill-tempered,  is  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  crous. 

"  Azeyu  [against]  hem  was  he  kene  and  crous." 
Cursor  Mundi. 

Cross  Buns.     {See  Buxs.) 

Cross  -  grained.  Patchy,  ill  -  tem- 
pered, self-willed.  Wood  must  be 
worked  with  the  grain  ;  when  the  grain 
crosses  we  get  a  knot  or  curling,  which 
is  hard  to  work  uniform. 

Cross-legged  Knights  indicate  that 
the  person  so  represented  died  in  the 
Christian  faith.  As  crusaders  were 
supposed  so  to  do,  they  were  generally 


represented  on  their  tombs  with  crossed 

legs. 

"  Sometimes  the  figure  on  the  tomh  of  a  kniwht 
has  his  leijs  crossed  at  tlie  ankles,  this  mean  I  that 
tbe  knipbt  went  ane  crusaile.  If  the  lef?s  are 
crossed  at  the  knees,  he  went  twice;  if  at  the 
thighs  be  went  three  times."— Ditchjield :  Our  Vil- 
laues,  IWJ. 

Cross  Man  {A).  Not  straightfor- 
ward ;  luigain  ;  not  honest. 

"The  storekeepers  know  who  are  their  best 
customers,  tbe  snuare  jicople  or  the  cross  ones." 
—ISoldnicuod :  Ilobbcry  Under  Arms,  cb;ii>.  xvil. 

Cross-patch.  A  disagreeable,  ill- 
tempered  person,  male  or  female.  Patch 
means  a  fool  or  gossip ;  so  called  from 
las  parti-coloured  or  patched  dress.  A 
cross-patch  is  an  ill-tempered  fool  or 
gossiji.  Patch,  meaning  "fellow,"  is 
common  enough  ;  half  a  dozen  examples 
occur  in  Shakespeare,  as  a  "  scurvy 
patch,"  a  "soldier's  patch,"  "What 
patch  is  made  our  porter?  "  "  a  crew  of 
patches,"  etc. 

"  Cross-patch,  draw  tbe  latch, 
.Sit  by  the  fire  and  spin  ; 
Take  a  cup,  and  <lrink  it  iii>. 
Then  call  your  ncii-'bl»mrs  in. 

old  Xursenj  Rhyme. 

Cross-roads.  All  (except  suicides) 
who  were  excluded  from  holy  rites  were 
piously  buried  at  the  foot  of  the  cross 
erected  on  the  public  road,  as  the  place 
next  in  sanctity  to  consecrated  ground. 
Suicides  were  ignominiously  buried  on 
the  highway,  with  a  sttike  driven  througli 
their  body. 

Cross  and  Ball,  so  imivcrsally 
marked  on  Egyptian  figures,  is  a  circle 
and  the  lettei^T.  The  circle  signifies 
the  eternal  preserver  of  the  world,  and 
the  T  is  the  monogram  of  Tlioth,  the 
Egj'ptian  Mercury,  meaning  wisdom. 

The  coronation  orb  is  a  sphere  or  ball 
sumiounted  by  a  cross,  an  emblem  of 
empire  introduced  in  representations  of 
our  Saviour.  In  this  case  the  cross 
stands  ahuve  the  ball,  to  signify  that  the 
spiritual  jiower  is  above  the  tem^^oral. 

Cross  and  Pile.  Money ;  pitch  and 
toss.  Hilaire  le  Gai  tells  us  that  some 
of  the  ancient  French  coins  had  a  cross, 
and  others  a  column,  on  the  reverse :  the 
column  was  called  a  pile,  from  which 
comes  our  word  "  pillar,"  and  the 
phrase  "pile-driving."  Scaliger  says 
that  some  of  the  old  French  coins  had  a 
ship  on  the  reverse,  the  arms  of  Paris, 
and  that  pile  means  "a  ship,"  whence 
our  word  "pilot." 

"  A  man  may  now  justifiably  throw  up  cross 
and  pile  for  his  opinions."— iocfce ;  Human  Undei- 
standing. 

Cross  or  jnle.  Heads  or  tails.  The 
French  say  pile  oufacc.    The  "  face  "  or 


Cross  as  a  Bear 


811 


Crown 


cross  was  the  obverse  of  the  coiu,  the 
"pile"  was  the  reverse;  but  at  a  later 
period  the  cross  was  transferred  to  tlie 
reverse,  as  in  our  florins,  and  the 
obverse  bore  a  "head"  or  "poll." 

"  Marriage  is  worse  than  cross  I  win,  pile  you 
lose."  Shadivell:  Ep^um  Wells. 

Cross  nor  pile.  I  have  neither  cross 
nor  pile.  Not  a  penny  in  the  world. 
The  French  jjhrase  is,  "■  X'aroir  ni  croix 
ni  2}iJs "  (to  have  neither  one  sort  of 
coin  nor  another) . 

'■"Wbacmn  had  neither  cross  nor  pile" 

Butler :  Hitdibras,  pan  ii.  3. 

Cross  as  a  Bear,  or  Cross  as  a  bear 
tcith  a  sore  head. 

Cross  as  the  Tongs.  The  refer- 
ence is  to  tongs  which  open  like  a  pair 
of  scissors. 

Cross  as  Two  Sticks.  The  refer- 
ence is  to  the  cross  (X). 

Crossing  the  Hand.  Fortune-tell- 
ers of  the  gipsy  race  always  bid  their 
dupe  to  "  cross  their  hand  with  a  bit  of 
silver."  This,  they  say,  is  for  luck. 
Of  course,  the  sign  of  the  cross  warded 
off  witches  and  all  other  evil  sj^irits,  and, 
as  fortune -telling  belongs  to  the  black 
arts,  the  ijalm  is  signed  with  a  cross  to 
keep  off  the  wiles  of  the  devil.  "You 
need  fear  no  evil,  though  I  am  a  fortune- 
teller, if  bj^  the  sign  of  tlic  cross  you 
exorcise  the  evil  spirit." 

Crossing  the  Line — i.e.  the  equator. 

Crot'alum.  A  sort  of  Castanet,  rattled 
in  dancing.  Aristopha'nes  calls  a  great 
talker  hrot'ulon  (a  clack). 

Crotchet.  A  whim ;  a  fancy ;  a 
twist  of  the  mind,  like  the  crotch  or 
crome  of  a  stick.     {Jiee  Crook.) 

"The  duke  hath  crotchets  in  him." 
'Shalcespeare :  Miusurefor  Measure,  iii. '.'. 

Croto'na's  Sage.  Pytha'goras.  So 
called  because  at  Crotona  he  established 
his  first  and  chief  school  of  philosophy. 
Such  success  followed  his  teaching  that 
the  whole  aspect  of  the  town  became 
more  moral  and  decorous  in  a  marvel- 
lously short  time.     About  B.C.  540. 

Crouchback.     (See  Eed  Kose.) 

Crouchmas,  from  the  Invention  of 
the  Cross  to  St.  Helen's  Day  (May  3rd 
to  August  18th).  Not  Christ-mas,  but 
Cross-mas.  Rogation  Sunday  is  called 
Crouchmas  Sunday,  and  Rogation  week 
is  called  Crouchmas. 

"  From  hull-cow  fast, 
Till  Crouchmas  he  past  "  [i.e.  August  isth]. 
Tusser :  May  Remembrances, 


Crow.  As  the  crow  Jlies.  The 
shortest  route  between  two  given  places. 
The  crow  flies  straight  to  its  point  of 
destination.  Called  the  bee-line  in 
America. 

Crow.    {See  Raven.) 

/  must  pluck  a  crow  with  you  ;  I  have  a 
crow  to  pick  with  you.  I  am  displeased 
with  you,  and  must  call  you  to  account. 
I  have  a  small  complaint  to  make  against 
you.  In  Howell's  proverbs  (1659)  we 
find  the  following,  "I  have  a  goose  to 
pluck  with  you,"  used  in  the  same  sense  ; 
and  Chaucer  has  the  phi-ase  "Pull  a 
Jinch,'^  but  means  thereby  to  cheat  or 
filch.  Children  of  distinction  among  the 
Greeks  and  Romans  had  birds  for  their 
amusement,  and  in  their  boyish  quar- 
rels used  to  pluck  or  jjuU  the  feathers 
out  of  each  other's  pets.  Tyn'darus, 
in  his  Captives,  alludes  to  this,  but 
instances  it  with  a  lapwinf/.  In  hiero- 
glyphics a  crow  symbolises  contention, 
discord,  strife. 

"  If  a  crow  help  us  in,  sirrah,  we'll  pluck  a  crow 
tofxcllicr."— Shakespeare :  Comedy  of  £rrors,ui.  1. 
"  If  not,  resolve  hefore  we  go. 
That  you  and  1  must  pull  a  crow." 

Butler :  Uudibras,  part  ii.  -2. 

Crow  over  One  {To),  is  to  exult  over 
a  vanquished  or  abased  person.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  cocks,  who  always  crow  when 
they  have  vanquished  an  adversary. 

Crowbar.  An  iron  with  a  crook, 
used  for  leverage.    (Anglo-Saxon,  cruc.) 

"  Science  is  as  far  removed  from  brute  fnrce  as 
this  sword  from  a  crowbar."  —  Bulaer-Lytton: 
Leila,  bocik  ii.  cluip.  i.  p.  Xi. 

Crowd  or  Crouth.  A  species  of  fiddle 
with  six  or  more  strings.  The  last  noted 
player  on  this  instrument  was  John 
Morgan,  who  died  17-0.  (Welsh,  crwtli.) 

"  O  sweet  c(mscnt,  between  a  crowd  and  a  Jew's 
harp  : "  Lylij. 

Crowde'ro.  One  of  the  rabble  leaders 
encountered  by  Hudibras  at  a  bear- 
baiting.  The  original  of  tliis  character 
was  one  Jackson  or  Jeph.son,  a  milliner, 
who  lived  in  the  New  Exchange,  Strand. 
He  lost  a  leg  in  the  service  of  the  Round- 
heads, and  was  reduced  to  the  necessity 
of  fiddling  from  alehouse  to  alehouse  for 
his  daily  bread.  The  word  means  fiddler. 
{See  above,  Crowd.) 

Crown.  In  heraldry  nine  crowns  are 
recognised  :  The  oriental,  the  triumjihal 
or  imperial,  the  diadem,  the  obsidional 
crown,  the  civic,  the  crown  vallery,  the 
mm-al  crown,  the  naval,  and  the  crown 
celestial. 

The  blockade  crown  {coro'na  obsidio- 
na'lis),  presented  by  the  Romans  to  the 
general   who  liberated   a   beleaguered 


Crown  Glass 


312 


Crucial 


aiiny.  This  was  made  of  grass  and  wild 
flowers  gathered  from  the  sisot. 

^1  camp  croirn  was  given  by  the 
Romans  to  him  who  first  forced  his  way 
into  the  enemy's  cam]).  It  was  made  of 
gold,  and  decorated  with  palisades. 

A  civic  croirn  was  jiresented  to  him 
who  preserved  the  life  of  a  ciris  or 
liomau  citizen  in  battle.  This  crown 
was  made  of  oak  leaves,  and  bore  the 
inscrii^tion, H.O.C.S. — i.e. liostem  occitlit, 
ci'reiu  scrva'vit  {a  foe  he  slew,  n  citizen 
saved). 

A  mured  croicn  was  given  by  the 
Romans  to  that  man  who  first  scaled 
the  wall  of  a  besieged  town.  It  was 
made  of  gold  and  decorated  with  battle- 
ments. 

A  iiaral  croirn  was  by  the  Romans 
given  to  him  who  won  a  naval  victory. 
It  was  made  of  gold,  and  decorated  with 
the  beaks  of  ships. 

All  olive  croirn  was  by  the  Romans 
given  to  those  who  distinguished  them- 
selves in  battle  in  some  way  not  specially 
mentioned  in  other  clauses. 

An  ova' f  ion  croirn  {coro'na  ora'lis)  was 
by  the  Romans  given  to  the  general  who 
vanquished  pirates  or  any  despised  enemy. 
It  was  made  of  myrtle. 

A  triiouphal  croirn  was  by  the  Romans 
given  to  the  general  who  obtained  a  tri- 
umph. It  was  made  of  laiu-el  or  bay 
leaves.  Sometimes  a  massive  gold  crown 
was  given  to  a  victorious  general.  (<SVe 
Laurel.) 

"  The  iron  croicn  of  Lombarchj  is  the 
crown  of  the  ancient  Longobardic 
kings.  It  is  now  at  Monza,  in  Italy. 
Henry  of  Luxembourg  and  succeeding 
kings  were  crowned  with  it.  Najjoleon  I. 
put  it  on  his  head  with  his  own  hands. 
It  is  a  thin  fillet  of  iron,  said  to  be  ham- 
mered from  a  nail  of  the  true  cross, 
covered  with  a  gold  circle,  enamelled 
with  jewels,  etc. 

Crown  Glass  is  window  glass  blown 
into  a  crown  or  hollow  globe.  It  is 
flattened  before  it  is  fit  for  use. 

Crown  Office  {The).  A  department 
belonging  to  the  Court  of  Queen's  Bench. 
There  are  three  Crown  ofhcers  aj^pointed 
by  the  Lord  Chief  Justice — viz.  (1) 
Queen's  Coroner  and  Attorney  ;  (2)  the 
Master  ;  and  (.3)  the  Assistant  Master. 
The  offices  are  held  during  good  be- 
haviour. 

Crown  of  the  East— ?.f.  Antioch, 
capital  of  Syria,  which  consisted  of  four 
walled  cities,  encomi^assed  by  a  common 
rampart,  that  "enj'ounded  them  like  a 


coronet."    It  was  also  sumamed  "  the 
beautiful." 

Crowns  (woni  by  heathen  deities)  : 

Apoi.t.o  wore  a  rrown  of  laurels. 

Bacchus,  of  Krapes  or  ivy. 

t'KiiEs,  (if  hlailos  of  wheat. 

C'OMCS,  of  ruses. 

CvKEi.E,  of  iiiiie  leaves. 

KLOiiA.of  llinvors. 

Foutunk,  of  lir-slips. 

The  Gracks,  of  olive-leaves. 

Hercules,  of  jioiilar-leaves. 

Hymen,  of  roses. 

.luNO,  of  quince-leaves. 

JOPITER,  of  oak-leaves. 

The  Lares,  of  roseiuary. 

Mercury,  of  ivy,  olive-leaves,  or  mulberries. 

INIiXERVA.  of  olive-leaves. 

The  Muses,  of  ilowers. 

I'AX,  of  inne-leaves. 

Pi.UTO,  of  cypress. 

I'OMOXA,  of  fruits. 

Saturx,  of  vine-leaves. 

Venus,  of  myrtle  or  roses. 

Crowner.  Coroner— i.r.  an  officer  of 
the  Crown. 

"The  crowuer  hath  sat  on  her,  .ind  llnds  It 
Christian  \<mi;i\."—Hhakfni>cu,re:  JIamlct,  v.  1. 

Crow's-Nest  (7%"),  in  aGrcenlander's 
galley,  is  a  small  room  constructed  of 
staves,  sometliing  like  an  emj)ty  cask. 
It  is  fitted  uji  with  seats  and  other  con- 
veniences, and  here  the  person  on  watch 
continues  for  two  hours  looking  out  for 
whales.  The  whale  generally  announces 
his  approach  by  a  "  blowing,"  which 
may  in  favourable  cii'cumstances  be 
heard  several  miles  off. 

Crowquill   {Alfred).    Alfred  Henry 

Forrester  (180j-187'2). 

Croysado.  The  Great  Croysado. 
General  Lord  Fairfax.     (Riidibras.) 

Cro'zier  or  Cro'sier.  An  archbi.shop's 
staff  tenninatesin  a  floriated  cross,  while 
a  bishop's  crook  has  a  curved,  bracken- 
like head.  A  bishop  turns  his  crook 
onfirards,  to  denote  liis  wider  authority ; 
an  abbot  (whose  crook  is  the  same  as  a 
bishop's)  carries  it  turned  imrards,  to 
show  that  his  jurisdiction  is  limited  to 
his  own  imnates.  When  walking  with  a 
bishop  an  abbot  covers  his  crook  with  a 
veil  hanging  from  the  knob,  to  show  that 
his  authority  is  veiled  iu  the  presence  of 
his  sui^erior. 

Cru'cial.  A  crucial  test.  A  very 
severe  and  undeniable  one.  The  allusion 
is  to  a  fancy  of  Lord  Bacon's,  who  said 
that  two  different  diseases  or  sciences 
might  run  parallel  for  a  time,  but  would 
idtimately  cross  each  other :  thus,  the 
plague  might  for  a  time  resemble  other 
diseases,  but  when  the  bubo  or  boil  ap- 
peared, the  plague  would  assume  its 
specific  character.  Hence  the  phrases  in- 
stan'tia  crucis  (a  crucial  or  unmistakable 


Crude  Forms 


313 


Crusted  Port 


symptom),     a    crucial     experiment,     a 
crucial  example,  a  crucial  question,  etc. 

Crude  Forms  in  grammar.  The 
roots  or  essential  letters  of  words.  The 
words  are  crude  or  uufiuished.  Thus  am- 
i's, the  crude  form  of  the  verb  amo  ;  hon- 
of  the  adjective  bonus;  and  domin-  of 
the  noun  domimts. 

Cruel  {TIu).  Pedro,  King  of  Castile 
(i;531,  1350-1369). 

Pedro  I.  of  Portugal ;  also  called  le 
Jiusdcicr  (1320,  13.-)7-13G7). 

Cruel  (now  Crewel)  Garters.  Gar- 
ters made  of  worsted  or  yam. 

"  Ha  !  lia  !  look,  be  wears  cruel  garters." 

Shal;eii)ieure :  Kimj  Lear,  ii.  ). 

"  Wearing  of  silk,  why  art  tlioii  so  cniel  ?  " 
H'oHKiii's  a  W'eutliircock  U'Jl-). 

Crummy.  ThaCs  crumiinj,  that'.s 
jolly  good.  She''s  a  crumnvj  woman,  a 
tine  handsome  woman.  Crummy  means 
fat  or  fleshy.  The  crummy  part  of 
bread  is  the  fleshy  or  main  part.  The 
opposite  of  "crusty"  =  ill-tempered. 

Crump.  "  DonH  you  unali  you  may 
grt  if,  Jlrs.  Crump  !  "  Grose  says  Mrs. 
Crump,  a  faiTuer's  wife,  was  invited  to 
dine  with  Lady  Coventry,  who  was  very 
deaf.  Mrs.  Crump  wanted  some  beer, 
but,  awed  by  the  pui-ple  and  plusli,  said, 
in  a  half-whisper,  "  I  wish  I  had  some 
beer,  now."  Mr.  Flunkey,  conscious 
that  his  mistress  could  not  hear,  replied 
in  the  same  aside,  "  Don't  j^ou  wish  you 
may  get  it  ?  "  At  this  the  farmer's  wife 
rose  from  table  and  helped  herself. 
Lady  Coventry,  of  course,  demanded  the 
reason,  and  tire  anecdote  soon  became 
a  standing  joke. 

Crusades  (2  syl.).  Holy  wars  in 
wliich  the  warriors  wore  a  cross,  and 
fought,  nominally  at  least,  for  the 
honour  of  the  cross.  Each  nation  had 
its  special  colour,  which,  says  Matthew 
Paris  (i.  446),  was  red  for  France  ;  white 
for  England ;  green  for  Flanders ;  for 
Italy  it  was  blue  or  azure ;  for  Spain, 
yules ;  for  Scotland,  a  St.  Andrew's 
cross ;  for  the  Knights  Temj)lars,  red  on 
white. 

2'hc  seven  Crusades. 

(1)  1096-1100.  Preached  up  by  Peter 
the  Hermit.  Led  by  Godfrey  of  Bouil- 
lon, who  took  Jerusalem.  As  a  result  of 
this  crusade,  Geoffrey  of  Bouillon  be- 
came the  virtual  king  of  Jerusalem. 

(2)  1147-1149.  At  the  instigation  of 
St.  Bernard.  Led  by  Louis  VII.  and  the 
Emperor  Conrad.  To  secure  the  union 
of  Europe. 


(3)  1189-1193.  Led  by  Richard  ZwM- 
heart.  For  knightly  distinction.  This 
was  against  Saladin  or  Salah-Eddin. 

(4)  1202-1204.  Led  by  Baldwin 'of 
Flanders  and  the  doge.  To  glorify  the 
Venetians. 

(o)  1217.  Led  by  John  of  Brienne, 
titular  King  of  Jerusalem.  To  suit  his 
own  purpose. 

(6)  1228-1229.  Led  by  Frederick  II. 
As  a  result,  Palestine  was  ceded  to  Fred- 
erick (Kaiser  of  GeiTnariy),  who  was 
crowned  king  of  Jerusalem. 

(7)  1^48-12.54  and  (8)  1268-1270.  To 
satisfy  the  religious  scrui)lcs  of  Louis  IX. 

Crush.  To  erush  a  bottle — i.e.  drink 
one.  Cf.  Milton's  erush  the  sweet 
poison.  The  idea  is  that  of  crushing 
the  grapes.  Shakespeare  has  also  burst 
a  bottle  in  the  same  sense  (Induction 
of  Taming  the  Shrew).     {See  Ceack.) 

"  Come  and  crush  a  cup  of  wine." 

Shakespeare :  Romeo  imd  Juliet,  i.  2. 

To  crush  a  fly  on  a  wheel.  To  crack  a 
nut  with  a  steam-hammer ;  to  employ 
power  far  too  valuable  for  tlie  purpose 
to  be  accomplished.  The  wheel  referred 
to  is  the  rack.  {See  Break  a  Butter- 
fly.) 

Crush-room  [The)  of  an  opera  or 
theatre.  A  room  provided  for  ladies 
where  they  can  wait  till  their  carriages 
are  called.  Called  crush  because  the 
room  is  not  only  crowded,  but  all  crush 
towards  the  door,  hoping  each  call  will 
be  that  of  their  own  carriage.  "Mrs. 
X.'s  carnage  stops  the  way,"  "Lord 
X.'s  caiTiage,"  etc. 

Cru'soe  (-4).  A  solitary  man;  the 
onlj'  iuhabitant  of  a  place.  The  tale  of 
Defoe  is  well  known,  which  describes 
Robinson  Crusoe  as  cast  on  a  desert 
island,  where  he  employs  the  most  ad- 
mirable ingenuity  in  providing  for  his 
daily  wants. 

"  Whence  creeping  furth,  to  Duty's  call  he  yields, 
And  strolls  the  Crusoe  of  the  lonely  fields." 

Bluomfiild :  Farmer's  Boy. 

Crust.  The  vpper  crust  (of  society). 
The  aristocracy;  the  ujiper  ten-thousand. 

Crus'ted  Port.  When  port  is  first 
bottled  its  fermentation  is  not  complete  ; 
in  time  it  j^recipitates  argol  on  the  sides 
of  the  bottle,  where  it  forms  a  crust. 
Crusted  port,  therefore,  is  port  which 
has  completed  its  fermentation. 

"  The  "  cru.st"  is  composed  of  argol, 
tartrate  of  lime,  and  colouring  matter, 
thus  making  the  wine  more  etliereal  iu 
quality  and  lighter  in  colour. 


Crusty 


314 


Cucking-stool 


Crus'ty.     Ill-tempered,  apt  to  take 
oflfence.     This  is  formed  from  the  old 
wpi'd  crous,  cross,  peevish. 
"  Azcyn  [awiinst]  liem  was  lie  kene  anp  crous, 
Ami  saiil,  '  Cidtli  out  my  Fader  lious.'  " 

Cursor  Mtmdi. 

Crutched  Friars  is  the  Latin  cni- 
cia'tl  (crossed) — i.e.  having  a  cross  em- 
broidered on  their  dress.  They  were  of 
the  Trinitarian  order. 

Crux  {A).  A  knotty  point,  a  diffi- 
culty. Iiistcoitia  cvHcis  means  a  crucial 
test,  or  the  point  vi'here  two  similar  dis- 
eases crossed  and  showed  a  special  feature. 
It  does  not  refer  to  the  cross,  an  instru- 
ment of  punishment ;  but  to  the  crossing 
of  two  lines,  called  also  a  node  or  knot ; 
hence  a  trouble  or  difficulty.  Qnec  to 
mala  crnx  agitat  ?  (Plautus)  ;  What  evil 
cross  distresses  jon't — i.e.  w^hat  difficulty, 
what  trouble  are  you  under  ? 

Crux  Ansa'ta.  The  tau  cross  with 
a  loop  or  handle  at  the  top.   {See  Ceoss.) 

Crux  Decussata.  A  St.  Andrew's 
cross , 

"Crux  (loi'usFata  est  iu  qua  duo  lipna  dirocta 
et  a'qualiilia  iiilcr  so  ohliquaiittir,  i-ujus  foruiniu 
lefert  liloia  X  ijua-,  ut  ait,  Isiilonis  (Oii^'.  1,  iii.) 
'iu  ttgiira  cruceiu  et  iu  iiuiiiero  decern  deiuou- 
strat.'  Ha?c  viilgo  Andreana  vocatur,  <4Uod  vetus 
traditio  sit  in  liao  S.  Antreain  fuisse  necatum."— 
Gretser :  De  Crnce,  liook  i.  p.  a. 

Crux  Pectoralis.  The  cross  which 
bishops  of  the  Church  of  Eonie  suspend 
over  their  breast. 

"  Crucem  cum  pretioso  ligno  vel  cum  reliquis 
Sanctorum  ante  pectus  portare  suspensum  ad 
coUum.boc  est  quod  vocaut  encolpiuni  [or  crux 
Pectoralis]."— See  Ducaiitje,  vol.  iii.  p.  302,  col.  2, 
article  Excolpium. 

Cry. 

Great  cry  and  little  tvool.  This  is 
derived  from  the  ancient  mystery  of 
Darid  and  A  biff  ail,  in  which  Nabal  is 
represented  as  shearing  his  sheep,  and 
the  Devil,  who  is  made  to  attend  the 
churl,  imitates  the  act  by  "shearing  a 
hog."  Originally,  the  proverb  ran  thus, 
"  Great  cry  and  little  wool,  as  the  Devil 
said  when  he  sheared  the  hogs."  N.B. 
— Butler  alters  the  proverb  into  "  All 
cry  and  no  wool." 

Cry  of  Animals  {The).  {See  Ani- 
mals.) 

Cry  {To). 

To  cry  over  spilt  milk.  To  fret  about 
some  loss  which  can  never  be  repaired. 

Cry  Cave  ( To) .  To  ask  mercy ;  to 
throw  up  the  sponge  ;  to  confess  oneself 
beaten.     (Latin,  caveo.)    {See  Cave  In.) 

Cry  Havock!  No  quarter.  In  a 
tract  entitled  The  Office  of  the  Constable 
and  Marcschall  in   the  Tymc  of  Werrc 


(contained  in  the  Black  Book  of  the 
Admiralty),  one  of  the  chapters  is,  "The 
peyne  of  hym  that  crieth  havock,  and  of 
them  that  foUoweth  him" — "//«/*  si 
quis  inventus  fiierit  ejai  clamorcni  in- 
ceperit  qui  vacatur  harok.'" 

"  Cry  Havock,  and  let  slip  the  doprs  of  war." 
Sliukcspaire :  Julius  Ccesar,  iii.  1 

Cry  Quits.    {Sec  Quits.) 

Cry  Vinegar  {Tu).  In  French,  Crier 
Vinaigre.  The  shout  of  sportsmen  when 
a  hare  is  caught.  He  cries  "  Vinegar  !  " 
he  has  caught  the  hare  ;  metaphorically 
it  means,  he  has  won  success.  "  Cetoit, 
dit  le  TJuchat,  la  coutume  en  Lanyucdoc, 
entre  les  chasseurs,  de  s'ecrier  Pun  a  V autre 
'  Vinaiyre,^  des  qtc^ils  araieiit  tire  vn 
licvre,  parceque  la  rraie  sauce  de  cet 
animal  est  Ic  tinaiyre.'" 

Crier  au  Vinairire  lias  quite  another  meaninir. 
It  is  the  reproof  to  a  landlord  who  serves  his 
customers  with  liad  wine.  Iu  a  figurative  sensu 
it  iiicans  Crier  au  Vuleur. 

Cry  Wolf.     {Sec  Wolf.) 

Crystal  Hills.  On  the  coast  of  the 
Caspian,  near  Badku,  is  a  mountain 
which  sparkles  like  diamonds,  from  the 
sea-glass  and  crystals  with  which  it 
abounds. 

Crystalline  (3  syl.).  The  Crystalline 
sphere.  According  to  Ptolemy,  between 
the  "primum  mobile"  and  the  finna- 
ment  or  sphere  of  the  fixed  stars  comes 
the  crystal'line  sphere,  which  oscillates 
or  has  a  shimmering  motion  that  inter- 
feres with  the  regular  motion  of  the  stars. 
"  Thev  pass  the  planets  seven,  and  pass  the 
'llxed' 
And   that   crystal'line   sphere,  whose  halance 

weighs 
The  trepidation  talked  fof)." 

Milton:  Paradise  Lost,  iii. 

Cub.  An  ill-mannered  lout.  The 
cub  of  a  bear  is  said  to  have  no  shape 
until  its  dam  has  licked  it  into  form. 

"  A  bear's  a  savage  beast,  of  all 
Most  ugly  and  unnatural  ; 
Whelped  without  form  until  the  dam 
Has  licked  it  into  shape  and  frame." 

Butler :  UmUhras,\.  3. 

Cuba.  The  Roman  deity  who  kept 
guard  over  infants  iu  their  cribs  and 
sent  them  to  sleep.  Verb  cubo,  to  lie 
down  in  bed. 

Cube.  A  faultless  cube.  A  truly 
good  man  ;  a  regular  brick.   («SVy' Brick.) 

avev  \\/6yov. — Aristutle:  NicuinachcanEtliies,  i.ll, 
sec.  11. 

Cucking-stool  (I7ic)  or  Chokiny-stool, 
for  ducking  scolds,  is  not  connected 
with  elioke  (to  stifle),  but  the  French 
choquer ;  hence  the  archaic  verb  cuck 
(to  throw),  and  one  still  in  use,  chuck 


Cuckold 


315 


Cuirass 


(chuck-farthing).  The  cucking-stool  is 
the  stool  which  is  chucked  or  thrown 
into  the  water. 

"  Now,  if  one  cucking-stool  was  for  eacli  scold, 
Some  towns,  I  fear,  would  not  their  numbers 
hold."  Poor  Robin  {17 Uij. 

Cuckold.     (St'e  Action.) 

Cuckold  King  (T/te).  Mark  of 
Cornwall,  whose  wife  Yseult  intrigued 
with  Sir  Tristram,  one  of  the  Knights  of 
the  Bound  Table. 

Cuckold's  Point.  A  spot  on  the 
riverside  near  Deptford.  So  called  from 
a  tradition  that  King  John  made  there 
successful  love  to  a  labourer's  wife. 

Cuckoo.  A  cuckold.  The  cuckoo 
occupies  the  nest  and  eats  the  eggs  of 
other  birds  ;  and  Dr.  Johnson  says  "  it 
was  usual  to  alarm  a  husband  at  the 
approach  of  an  adulterer  by  calling  out 
'  Cuckoo,'  which  by  mistake  was  applied 
in  time  to  the  person  warned. "  Green 
calls  the  cuckoo  "  the  cuckold's  quiris- 
ter "  {Quip  for  an  Upstart  Courtier, 
1620).  This  is  an  instance  of  how  words 
get  in  time  perverted  from  their  ori- 
ginal meaning.  The  Eomans  used  to 
call  an  adulterer  a  ''cuckoo,"  as  '■*  2e 
cuculuni  uxor  ex  histris  rapit  "  {Flautus  : 
Asbtaria,  v.  3),  and  the  allusion  was 
simple  and  correct ;  but  Dr.  Johnson's 
explanation  will  hardly  satisfy  anyone 
for  the  modern  perversion  of  the  word. 

"  The  cuckoo,  tlien,  on  every  tree, 
Mocks  married  men  ;  for  thus  siii.ifs  he. 

Cuckoo ! 
Cuckoo  !  cuckoo  !  O  word  of  fear, 
Unjileasing  to  a  married  ear  ! " 

Shakespeare :  Love's  Labour's  Lost,  v.  2. 

Cuckoo  (A).  A  watch  or  clock. 
The  French  have  the  same  slang  word 
eoucou.  for  a  watch  or  clock.  Of  course, 
the  word  is  derived  from  the  GeiTuau 
cuckoo-clocks,  which,  instead  of  striking 
the  horn-,  cry  cuckoo. 

Cuckoo  Oats  and  Woodcock  Hay. 

Cuchuo  oats  and  woodcock  hay  make  a 
farmer  run  away.  If  the  spring  is  so 
backward  that  oats  cannot  be  sown  till 
the  cuckoo  is  heard  {i.e.  April),  or  if  the 
autumn  is  so  wet  that  the  aftermath  of 
hay  cannot  be  got  in  till  woodcock 
shooting  (middle  of  November),  the 
faiTQer  must  be  a  great  sufferer. 

Cuckoo  -  Spit,  "  Frog  -  Spit, "  or 
"  Froth-Spit."  The  sjiume  which  forms 
the  nidus  of  an  insect  called  the  Cicada 
Spuinaria,  or,  more  strictly  speaking, 
the  Gercopis  Spuinaria  (one  of  the  three 
divisions  of  the  Cicadariae).  This  spume 
is  found  on  lavender-bushes,  rosemary, 
fly-catch,  and  some  other  plants.    Like 


the  cochineal,  the  cicada  spumaria  exudes 
a  foam  for  its  own  warmth,  and  for  pro- 
tection during  its  transition  state.  The 
word  "cuckoo"  in  this  case  means 
spring  or  cuckoo-time. 

Cu'cumber  Time.  The  dull  season 
in  the  tailoring  trade.  The  Germans  call 
it  Die  saure  Gurken  Zeit  (pickled  gherkin 
time).  Hence  the  expression  Tailors  arc 
vegetarians,  because  they  live  on  "  cu- 
cumber" when  without  work,  and  on 
"  cabbage  "  when  in  full  employ.  {Notes 
and  Queries.)     {Sec  Ghekkin.) 

Cuddy.  An  ass ;  a  dolt.  A  gipsy 
term,  from  the  Persian  gudda  and  the 
Hindustanee  gliudda  (an  ass). 

"  Hast  got  tliy  t)reakfast,  brother  ciuldy  ?" 
/).  Wingate. 

Cudgel  One's  Brains  {To).  To 
make  a  painful  effort  to  remember  or 
understand  something.  The  idea  is  from 
taking  a  stick  to  beat  a  dull  boy  under 
the  notion  that  dulness  is  the  result  of 
temper  or  inattention. 

"  Cudscl  thy  brains  no  more  about  it  ;  for  your 
dull  ass  will  not  mend  his  pace  with  beating."— 
Shakespeare:  Uamlel,  v.  1. 

Cudgels.  To  take  up  the  cudgels.  To 
maintain  an  argument  or  position.  To 
fight,  as  with  a  cudgel,  for  one's  own 
way. 

"  For  some  reason  he  did  not  feel  as  hot  to  take 
up  the  cudgels  for  Almira  with  .his  mother."—.!/. 
E.  WUkiiis:  A  Modern  Dragon. 

Cue  (1  syl.).  The  tail  of  a  sentence 
(French,  queue),  the  catch-word  which 
indicates  when  another  actor  is  to  speak  ; 
a  hint ;  the  state  of  a  person's  temper, 
as  "  So-and-so  is  in  a  good  cue  (or)  bad 
cue." 

"When  my  cue  comes,  call  me,  and  T  will 
answer."  —  Shakespeare  :  Midsummer  Niglit's 
Dream,  Iv.  1. 

To  give  the  cue.  To  give  the  hint. 
{See  above.) 

Cuffy.  A  negro ;  both  a  generic  word 
and  i^roper  name. 

"  Samlio  and  Cuffey  expand  under  every  sky."— 
Mrs.'  lieeclter  Stoa-e  :  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin. 

Cui  bono  ?  Who  is  benefited  thereby  ? 
To  wliom  is  it  a  gain  ?  The  more  usual 
meaning  attached  to  the  words  is.  What 
good  will  it  do?  For  what  good  pur- 
pose ?  It  was  the  question  of  Judge 
Cassius.  (See  Cicero  :  Fro  Milonc,  VI. 
sec.  32.) 

"  Cato,  that  great  and  grave  philosopher,  did 
commonly  demand,  when  any  new  project  was 
propounded  unto  him,  c«i  fcono,  what  good  will 
ensue  in  case  the  same  is  effected ?  —J''i(;((;)- ; 
Worthies  (The  Design,  i.). 

Cuirass.  Sir  Arthur's  cuirass  was 
"carved  of  one   emerald,  centred  in  a 


Cuishes 


316 


Cunobelin's 


sun  of  silver  rays,  that  lightened  as  he 
breathed."     {Tennyson:  Elaine.) 

Cuish'es  or  Cuisses  (2  syl.).  Armour 
for  the  thighs.  (French,  citis.sc,  the 
thigh.) 

"Soon   o'er   his   tliisbs   be   rlacod  tlie  ciiishes 
bright."  Jerusalem  Dclii-i  rfil,  lii»ik  xi. 

"  His  cuisses  ou  his  thiphs,  palhuitly  aniiPd.'' 
Hhahesjicarc :  I  llinnj  /l'.,  iv.  1. 

Cul  de  Sac  (Frencli).  A  blind  alley, 
or  alley  blocked  up  at  one  end  like  a 
sack.  Figm-atively,  an  argument,  etc., 
that  leads  to  nothing. 

Culdees.  A  religious  order  of  Ireland 
and  Scotland,  said  to  have  been  founded 
in  the  sixth  century  by  St.  Columba.  So 
called  from  the  Gaelic  cijUe-dee  (a  house 
of  cells)  or  ccilcdc  (servants  of  God,  ceile, 
a  servant).  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  going 
to  the  Latin  for  its  etj^mology.  according 
to  a  custom  unhapjiily  not  yet  extinct, 
derives  it  from  colo-dcus  (to  Avorship 
God). 

CuUis.  A  very  fine  and  strong  broth, 
well  strained,  and  much  used  for  in- 
valids. (French,  cotilis,  from  coidcr,  to 
strain.) 

Cully.  A  fop,  a  fool,  a  dupe.  A  con- 
tracted fonn  of  cullion,a  despicable  crea- 
ture (Italian,  cof/liunc).  Shakespeare  uses 
the  word  two  or  three  times,  as  "Away, 
base  cullions!"  (2  Henri/  VI.,  i.  3), 
and  again  in  Tanuwj  of  the  S/nriv,  iv.  2 
— "And  makes  a  god  of  such  a  cul- 
lion."     (Compare  Gull.) 

"  You  base  cuUiDii.  yon.'' 
Ben  .Tonsvii ;  Ercrij  Man  in  his  Minnour,  iii.  2. 

Cul'minate  (3  syl.).  Come  to  a 
crisis.  The  passage  of  a  celestial  body 
over  the  meridian  at  the  upper  transit  is 
called  its  culmination.  (Latin,  culmcn, 
the  top.) 

Culross  Girdles.  The  thin  plate  of 
iron  used  in  Scotland  for  the  manufac- 
ture of  oaten  cakes  is  called  a  "  girdle," 
for  which  Culrcss  was  long  celebrated. 

"  Locks  and  bars,  iiloutrb-crraith  and  barrow- 
tcetU  !  and  why  not  grates  and  flreprong.*,  and 
I'nhoss  girdles  ?  "—6'co« ;  Fair  Maid  of  I'crth, 
cbap.  ii. 

Cul'ver.  Pigeon.  (Old  English,  col- 
rcr;  Latin,  eo/ninf>(( ;  hence  culver-house, 
a  dove-cote.) 

"  On  liiinid  wing, 
The  sonnding  culver  slioots." 

Thomson:  Sprinrj  452. 

Cul'verin  ]n-operly  means  a  serjient 
(Latin,  coIi(hri'nits,  the  coluber),  but 
is  applied  to  a  long,  slender  piece  of 
artillerj'  employed  in  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tui-y  to  carry  balls  to  a  great  distance. 
Queen  Elizabeth's  "Pocket  Pistol"  in 
Dover  Castle  is  a  culverin. 


Cul'verkeys.  The  keys  or  flowers 
of  the  culver  or  columba,  i.e.  colum- 
bine.    (Anglo-Saxon  eiilfre,  a  dove.) 

Cum  Grano  Sails.  Witli  its  grain 
of  salt ;  there  is  a  grain  of  wheat  in  the 
bushel  of  chaff,  and  wc  must  make  the 
proper  abatement. 

Cum  Hoc,  Propter  Hoc.  Because 
two  or  more  events  occur-  consecutively 
or  simultaneously,  one  is  not  necessarily 
the  outcome  of  the  other.  Sequence  of 
events  is  not  always  the  result  of  cause 
and  effect.  The  swallows  come  to 
England  in  the  spring,  but  do  not  bring 
the  sirring. 

"[Free  trade  and  revival  of  trade]  says  Lord 
Penzance,  came  simultaneously,  but,  he  adds, 
'There  is  no  more  dangerous  form  of  reasoning 
than  tberinn  hnc,propter  hoc.'"— Nineteenth  Ccn- 
innj,  April,  Imm;.^  ^ 

Cumberland  Foet  (T/te).  ft'illiani 
Wordsworth,  born  at  Cockermouth. 
(1770-1850.) 

Cummer.  A  gammer,  gudcwife,  old 
woman.  A  varietj'  of  gaiiinier  which  is 
r/nindc-niere  (our  grandmother),  as  gaffer 
is  grand-pere  or  grandfather.  It  occurs 
scores  of  times  in  Scott's  novels. 

Cuncta'tor  {Uic  dcfai/er'].  Quintus 
Fa'bius  Max'imus,  the  Roman  general 
who  baffled  Hannibal  by  avoiding  direct 
engagements,  and  wearing  him  out  by 
marches,  countermarches,  and  skirmishes 
from  a  distance.  This  was  the  policy 
by  which  Duguesclin  forced  the  English 
to  abandon  their  possessions  in  France 
in  the  reign  of  Charles  V.  (fe  Sage). 
{See  Fabian.) 

Cuneiform  Letters.  Letters  like 
wedges  (Latm,  e/('nc/(s,  a  wedge).  Tliese 
sort  of  letters  occur  in  old  Persian  and 
Babylonian  inscriptions.  They  are  some- 
times called  ArroiC'/iecided  eharucters, 
and  those  found  at  Babylon  are  called 
nnU-hcaded.  This  species  of  writing  is 
the  most  ancient  of  which  we  have  any 
knowledge ;  and  was  first  really  deci- 
phered by  Grotefeud  in  1802. 

Cunning  Man  or  Woman.  A  for- 
tune-teller, one  who  ijrofesses  to  dis- 
cover stolen  goods.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
cunnan,  to  know.) 

Cu'no.  The  ranger,  father  of  Agatha, 
in  Weber's  opera  of  I)er  Freischiit:. 

Cunobelin's  Gold  Mines.  Caverns 
in  the  chalk  beds  of  Little  Thurrock, 
Essex  ;  so  called  from  the  tradition  that 
King  Cu'nobelin  hid  in  them  his  gold. 
They  are  sometimes  called  Dane-holes, 
because  they  were  used  as  liu-king-places 
by  the  Norsemen. 


Cunstance 


317 


Cupboard  Love 


Cunstance.  A  model  of  Resigiia- 
tiou,  daughter  of  the  Emjieror  of  Rome. 
The  Sultan  of  Sji-ia,  in  order  to  have 
her  for  his  wife,  renounced  his  religion 
and  turned  Christian  ;  but  the  Sultan's 
mother  miuxlered  him,  and  turned 
Cunstance  adiift  on  a  raft.  After  a 
time  tlie  raft  stranded  on  a  rock  near 
Northumberland,  and  the  constable 
rescued  Cunstance,  and  took  her  home, 
where  she  converted  his  wife,  Hemie- 
gild.  A  young  lord  fell  in  love  with 
her  ;  but,  his  suit  being  rejected,  he 
murdered  Hermegild,  and  laid  the 
charge  of  murder  against  Cunstance. 
King  Ella  adjudged  the  cause,  and 
Cunstance  being  proved  innocent,  he 
manied  her.  While  Ella  was  in  Scot- 
land, Cimstance  was  confined  with  a 
boy,  named  Maurice  ;  and  Ella's  mother, 
angry  with  Cunstance  for  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  Christian  religion,  put  her  on 
a  raft  adrift  with  her  baby  boy.  They 
were  accidentally  found  by  a  senator, 
and  taken  to  Rome.  Ella,  having  dis- 
covered that  his  mother  had  turned  his 
wife  and  child  adrift,  put  her  to  death, 
and  went  to  Rome  in  pilgrimage  to  atone 
for  his  crime.  Here  he  fell  in  with  his 
wife  and  son.  Maurice  succeeded  his 
grandfather  as  Emperor  of  Rome,  and  at 
the  death  of  Ella,  Cunstance  returned  to 
her  native  land.  {Cliaticcr  :  The  Man  of 
Z (I tecs  Talc.) 

Cuntur.  A  bird  worshipped  by  the 
ancient  Peruvians.  It  is  generally  called 
the  "  condor,"  and  by  the  Arabians  the 
"roc." 

Cup. 

A  dcadJij  cup.  Referring  to  the 
ancient  practice  of  putting  persons  to 
death  by  poison,  as  Socrates  was  f)ut  to 
death  by  the  Athenians. 

"  In  tbe  hand  of  tlie  Lord  there  is  a  cup  [a 
deadly  ciiii],  tliedret's  thereof  all  the  wicked  of  the 
earth  shall  wring  them  out  and  drink  tlieni."— 
Psalm  IxxY. «. 

Let  this  eiip  pass  from  me.  Let  tliis 
trouble  or  affliction  be  taken  away,  that 
I  may  not  be  compelled  to  undergo  it. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  Jewish  practice  of 
assigning  to  guests  a  certain  portion  of 
wine— as,  indeed,  was  the  custom  in 
England  at  the  close  of  the  eighteenth 
century  and  the  first  quarter  of  the 
nineteenth.  This  cup  is  ' '  full  of  the 
wine  of  God's  fury,"  let  me  not  be  com- 
pelled to  drink  it. 

3Iauij  a  slip  ^twixt  the  cup  and  the  lip. 
{See  AxcjEUS.) 

My  [or  his']  cup  runs  over.  My  bless- 
ings ovei-flow.  Here  cup  signifies  portion 
or  blessing. 


"  My  cui)  runneth  over  .  .  .  goodness  and  mercy 
follow  me  all  the  days  of  my  life."— Psalm  xxiii. 
0, «. 

We  must  drink  the  cup.  We  must 
bear  the  burden  awarded  to  us,  the 
sorrow  which  falls  to  oiu-  lot.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  words  of  our  Lord  in 
the  garden  of  Gethsem'auii  (Matt.  xxvi. 
39  ;  also  xx.  22).  One  way  of  putting 
criminals  to  death  in  ancient  times  was 
by  poison ;  Socrates  had  hemlock  to 
drink.  In  allusion  to  this  it  is  said  that 
Jesus  Christ  tasted  death  for  every  man 
(Heb.  ii.  9). 

Cup,  in  tlie  university  of  Cambridge, 
means  a  mixture  of  strong  ale  with 
spice  and  a  lemon,  served  up  hot  in  a 
silver  cup.  Sometimes  a  roasted  orange 
takes  the  place  of  a  lemon.  If  wine  is 
added,  the  cup  is  called  bishop  ;  if  brandy 
is  added,  the  beverage  is  called  cardinal. 
{Sec  Bishop.) 

Cup  Tosser.  A  juggler  (French, 
jouvur  de  gohelct).  The  old  symbol  for 
a  juggler  was  a  goblet.  The  lArase  and 
symbol  are  derived  from  the  practice  of 
jugglers  who  toss  in  the  air,  twist  on  a 
stick,  and  play  all  sorts  of  tricks  with 
goblets  or  cui^s. 

Cup  ofVows  (J7(^).  It  used  to  be 
customary  at  feasts  to  drink  from  cups 
of  mead,  and  vow  to  perform  some  great 
deed  worthy  of  the  song  of  a  skald. 
There  were  four  cups  :  one  to  Odin,  for 
victory  ;  one  to  Frey,  for  a  good  year  ; 
one  to  Niord,  for  peace ;  and  one  to 
Bragi,  for  celebration  of  the  deatl  in 
poetry. 

Cups.  He  was  in  his  cups.  Intoxicated. 
(Latin,  inter pocida,  inter  vina.)  [Horace  : 
3  Odes,  vi.  20.) 

Cu'par.  He  that  will  to  Cupar  maun 
to  Cupar.  He  that  will  have  his  own 
way,  must  have  it  even  to  his  injur}\ 
The  reference  is  to  the  Cistercian  monas- 
tery, founded  here  by  Malcolm  IV. 

Cupar  Justice.  Same  as  ' '  Jedburgh 
Justice,"  hang  first  and  try  afterwards. 
Abingdon  Law  is  another  phrase.  It  is 
said  that  Major -General  Brown,  of 
Abingdon,  in  the  Commonwealth,  first 
hanged  his  prisoners  and  then  tried 
them. 

Cupboard  Love.  Love  from  in- 
terested motives.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
love  of  children  to  some  indulgent  per- 
son who  gives  them  something  nice  from 
her  cupboard. 
"  Cupboard  love  is  seldom  iruC'—Poor  .Rohin. 


Cupid 


318 


Curse  of  Scotland 


Cupid.  The  god  of  love,  and  son  of 
Venus.  According  to  fable  he  wets  with 
blood  the  grindstone  on  which  he  sharp- 
ens his  arrows. 

"  Ferus  et  Cupldo, 
Semper  ardcntes  aciietis  sagittas." 

Horace:  2  Odes,  viii.  U,lj. 

V  The  best  statues  of  this  little  god 
are  "Cupid  Sleeping,"  in  Albano 
(Rome)  ;  "CuiJid  playing  with  a  Swan," 
in  the  Capitol;  "Cupid  mounted  on  a 
Tiger,"  (Negroni)  ;  and  "  Cupid  string- 
ing his  Bow,"  in  the  Louvre  (Paris). 
Kaphael's  painting  of  Cupid  is  in  the 
Faruesina  (Rome). 

Cupid  and  Psyche.  An  exquisite 
episode  in  the  Golden  Ass  of  Apule'ius. 
It  is  an  allegory  representing  the  pro- 
gress of  the  soul  to  perfection.  Mrs. 
Tighe  has  a  poem  on  the  same  subject ; 
and  Moliere  a  drama  entitled  Fsi/clte. 
{See  Morris,  Eaythlii  Faradm-  [May].) 

Cupid's  Golden  Arrow.  Virtuous 
love.  "Cupid's  leaden  arrow,"  sensual 
passion. 

"  Di'iiiie  sa'-,'illifpra  proinsit  duo  tela  pliaretra 
Diveisiii-um    openim  ;    lugat   hoc,   facit   illiid 

aiiiiireiii. 
Quod  facit. •inratum  est, otcuspidef  iilget acuta,— 
yuod  fuKat  oMusum  est,  et  habet  sul)  arundine 
plumbum." 

Ovhl :  Tale  of  Apollo  and  Daphng. 
"  I  swear  to  tlioe  bv  Cupid's  sfr(lM^'est  bow  ; 
By  his  licsl  :irn>w  willi  tlio  LrubhMi  liead  .... 
By  that  which  kuiticih  s.mls  and  pr<isp;M-s  love." 
Shahfiiiiiare  :  Mid.idiniiur  -Viy/iCs  Dream. 

Cupidon  {Lc  jcunc).  Count  d'Orsay 
was  so  called  by  Lord  Byron  (1798-18.52). 
The  Count's  father  was  styled  Le  beau 
dWrsay. 

Cur.  A  fawning,  mean-spirited  fel- 
low ;  a  croji-tailed  dog  (Latin,  ciirtiis, 
crop-tailed;  French,  court;  our  curt). 
According  to  forest  laws,  a  man  who 
had  no  right  to  the  privilege  of  the 
chase  was  obliged  to  cut  off  the  tail  of 
his  dog.  Hence,  a  degenerate  dog  or 
man  is  called  a  cur. 

"  What  would  you  have,  you  curs. 
That  like  nor  peace  nor  war  ?" 

Shakespeare:  Coriotaiius,i.  1. 

Curate.    {See  Clerical  Titles.) 

Cure  de  Meudon— i.«.  Rabelais, 
who  was  first  a  monk,  then  a  leech, 
then  prebend  of  St.  Maur,  and  lastly 
cure  of  Meudon.     (1483-1553.) 

Cure'tes  (3  syl.).  A  mythical  people 
of  Crete,  to  whom  the  infant  Zeus  or 
Jupiter  was  entrusted  by  his  mother 
Rhea.  By  clashing  their  shields  they 
drowned  the  cries  of  the  infant,  to 
prevent  its  father  (Cronos)  from  finding 
the  place  where  the  babe  was  hid. 


Curfew  BelL  The  bell  rung  in  the 
reigns  of  WUHam  I.  and  II.  at  sunset, 
to  give  notice  to  their  subjects  that  they 
were  to  put  out  tlieii-  fires  and  candles 
(French,  coiirre  fcti,  cover-fii-e).  The 
Klokans  in  Abo,  even  to  the  present 
day,  traverse  the  towns  crj'ing  the  "  go- 
to-bed  time."  Those  abroad  are  told 
to  "  make  haste  home,"  and  tlio.se  at 
home  to  "  put  out  their  fires."  Abol- 
ished, as  a  police  regulation,  by  Henry  I. 

"The  curfew  tolls  the  kuell  of  jiarting  day." 
Graij:  Klegy. 

Curmudgeon  (3  syl.).  A  grasping, 
miserly  churl.  Dr.  Johnson  gives  the 
derivation  of  this  word  thus,  "  cociir  me- 
chaiit,  unknown  coiTesiJondent. "  Dr. 
Ash,  in  Iiis  dictionary,  says,  "  caiir,  un- 
known ;  mechant,  con-espondent,"  a 
blunder  only  paralleled  by  the  schoolboy 
tran.slation  of  the  Greek,  me  goioito,  by 
fii)  (God)  Yf'iotTo  (forbid)  (Luke  xx.  G). 

Currant.  A  corruption  of  CoriiitJi, 
hence    called   by  Ju'venal    Cor'uitlii'aca 

Ul(C. 

Current.  The  drift  of  the  current 
is  the  rate  per  hour  at  which  the  current 
runs. 

The  setting  of  the  current  is  that  point 
of  the  compass  towards  which  the  waters 
of  the  current  run. 

Currente  Calamo  (Latin).  Ofi'hand; 
without  premeditation  ;  written  off  at 
once,  without  making  a  rough  coiij-  first. 

Currer  BelL  The  nom  de  jjluine  of 
Charlotte  Bronte. 

Curry  Favour.  The  French  court  r, 
to  hunt  after,  to  seek,  as  courir  tine 
charije,  courir  un  benefice,  to  sue  for  a 
living  ;  courir  les  tables,  to  go  a  spunging. 
Similarly,  courir  les  fiveurs,  to  sue  for, 
court,  or  seek  favours. 

Curse  or  Cuss.  Not  worth  a  curse. 
I  don't  care  a  curse  (or  cuss).  Here 
' '  cxurse "  is  a  corruption  of  cerse  or 
kerse.  Similarly,  the  Latin  nihil  [nihi- 
luin]  is  nc  hilum,  not  [worth]  the  black 
eye  of  a  bean.  Other  phrases  are  "not 
a  straw,"  "not  a  pin,"  "not  a  rap," 
"  not  a  dam,"  "not  a  bit,"  "  not  a  jot," 
"not  a  pin's  point,"  "not  a  button." 
(Anglo-Saxon,  cerse,  cress ;  German, 
kirsche,  a  cherry.) 

"  Wisdom  and  witt  nowe  is  not  worthe  a  kerse." 
Robert  Langeland:  Piers  Pluurjhman. 

Curse  of  Scotland.  The  nine  of 
diamonds.  The  two  most  plausible 
suggestions  are  these  :  ( 1 )  The  nine  of 
diamonds  in  the  game  of  Fope  Joan  is 
called  the  Pope,  the  Antichrist   of  the 


Curses 


$19 


Curule  Chair 


Scotch  refonners.  (2)  In  the  game  of 
coDiette,  introduced  by  Queen  Mary,  it  is 
tlie  great  winning  card,  and  the  game 
was  the  curse  of  fecotland  because  it  was 
the  ruin  of  so  many  families. 

Other  suggestions  are  these.  (3)  The 
word  "curse"  is  a  corruption  of  cross, 
and  the  nine  of  diamonds  is  so  aiTanged 
as  to  form  a  St.  Andrew's  Cross  ;  but  as 
the  nine  of  hearts  would  do  as  well,  this 
explanation  must  be  abandoned.  (4) 
Some  say  it  was  the  card  on  which  the 
"  Butcher  Duke  "  wrote  his  cruel  order 
after  the  Battle  of  Cullod'en  ;  but  the 
teiTU  must  have  been  in  vogue  at  the 
period,  as  the  ladies  nicknamed  Justice - 
Clerk  Ormistone  ' '  The  Nine  of  Dia- 
monds" (1715).  (o)  Similarly,  we  must 
reject  the  suggestion  that  it  refers  to 
tlie  amis  of  DalrjTuple,  Earl  of  Stair — 
viz.  or,  on  a  saltire  azure,  nine  lozenges 
of  tlie  first.  The  earl  was  justly  held  in 
abhorrence  for  the  massacre  of  Glencoe  ; 
so  also  was  Colonel  Packer,  who  attended 
Charles  I.  on  the  scaffold,  and  had  for 
his  arms  "  gules  a  cross  lozengy  or." 

Grose  says  of  tbe  nine  of  diamonds :  "  Diamonds 
.  .  .  inipl.v  royalty  ....  and  every  ninth  King  of 
Scotland  has  been  observed  for  many  ages  to  be  a 
tyrant  ami  a  curse  to  tbe  country."— Tour  Thro' 
.Scotland,  1789. 

■.■  It  IS  a  pity  that  Cirose  does  not  give  tlie 
names  of  tliese  kings.  Malcolm  III.  was  assas- 
sinated in  liMG  by  Waclieth,  William  was  taken 
prisoner  by  Henry  II.  '^died  I'.'14),  James  I.  was 
assassinated  in  1437. 

Curses.  Curses,  li/:c  chickens,  come 
home  to  roost.  Curses  fall  on  the  head 
of  the  curser,  as  chickens  which  stray 
during  the  day  return  to  their  roost  at 

night. 

Cursing  by  Bell,  Book,  and  Candle, 

is  reading  the  anathema  in  tlie  church, 
then  closing  the  Bible,  tolling  the  bell, 
and  extinguishing  all  the  candles,  sayiug 
'■' Fiat,  Jiut  I  JJo-to  (close)  the  Book, 
quench  the  candles,  ring  the  bell. 
Amen,  amen." 

Cursitor  (Latin,  clericus  de  cursu). 
FoiTuerly  a  clerk  of  the  course  ;  a  chan- 
cery clerk,  who  made  out  original  writs 
for  the  beat,  course,  or  part  of  the  county 
allotted  him.  A  Newgate  solicitor  was 
called  a  cursitor  in  depreciation  of  his 
office. 

Curst.  Curst  cows  have  curt  horns. 
Angry  men  cannot  do  all  the  miscliief 
they  wish.  Curst  means  "angry"  or 
"fierce,"  and  curt  is  "short,"  as  curt- 
mantle,  curt-hose.  The  Latin  proverb 
is,  "  Uat  Bens  immi'ti  cor'nua  curia 
boii." 

"  You  are  called  plain  Kate, 
And  bonny  Kate,  and  sometimes  Kate  tbe  curst." 
Shakespeare :  Taming  of  the  Shrew,  ii.  1. 


Curtail.  To  cut  short.  (French, 
court  taillcr,  to  short  cut,  whence  the 
old  French  courtault.) 

Curtain  (The).  In  fortification,  the 
line  of  rampart  which  joins  together  the 
flanks  of  two  "  bastions"  {q.v.)- 

Curtain.  To  ring  down  the  curtain. 
To  bring  a  matter  to  an  end.  A  theatri- 
cal tenn.  Wlien  the  act  or  play  is  over, 
the  bell  rings  and  the  green  curtain 
comes  down. 

"  A  few  more  matters  of  routine  will  be  accom- 
plished, and  then  the  curtiin  will  lie  rung  down 
on  tbe  Session  of  \m\."—Xewspayer  Paragraph, 
July  :;7tb,  issil. 

Curtain  Lecture.  The  nagging  of  a 
•wife  after  her  husband  is  in  bed.  Tlie 
lectures  of  Mrs.  Caudle  in  I'uuch  are 
first-rate  caricatures  of  these  "small 
cattle." 

"  Besides  what  endless  brawls  by  wives  are  bred, 
Tbe  curtain  lecture  makes  a  mournful  l>ed." 
Dnjden. 

Curtal  Friar.  A  friar  who  served 
as  an  attendant  at  the  gate  of  a  monas- 
tery court.  As  a  curtal  dog  was  not 
privileged  to  hunt  or  course,  so  a  curtal 
friar  virtually  meant  a  worldly-minded 
one. 

"  Some  do  call  me  the  curtal  Friar  of  Fountain 
Dale  ;  others  again  call  me  in  jest  the  Abbot  of 
Fountain  Abbey  ;  others  still  again  call  me 
simply  Friar  Tuck."— //oicard  Pyle:  The  Merry 
Adventures  of  Rubin  Hood,  ii.  p.  141. 

Curta'na.  The  sword  of  Edward 
the  Confes.sor,  which,  having  no  point, 
■was  the  emblem  of  mercy.  The  royal 
sword  of  England  was  so  called  to  the 
reign  of  Henry  III. 

"  But  when  Curtana  will  not  do  the  deed, 
You  lay  the  pointless  clergy-weapon  by. 
Ami  to  the  laws,  your  sword  of  justice"  fly." 
Urydcu  :  Uind  and  Panther,  part  ii.  41'J-i;l. 

Curthose  (2  syl.).  Eobert  II.,  Due 
de  Normandie  (1087-1134). 

Curtis'e  (2  syl.).  The  little  hound 
in  the  tale  of  Itcxjnard  the  Fox,  by 
Heinrich  von  Alkman  (1498).  (High 
German,  hurz ;  French,  courte,  short  or 
small.) 

Curtmantle.  The  surname  of  Henry 
II.  He  introduced  the  Anjou  mantle, 
which  was  shorter  than  the  robe  worn 
by  his  predecessors.  (1133,  1154-1189.) 
(Hee  Caeacalla.) 

Curule  Chair.  Properly  a  chariot 
chair,  an  ornamental  camp-stool  made 
of  ivory  placed  by  the  Romans  in  a 
chariot  for  the  chief  magistrate  when  he 
went  to  attend  the  council.  As  dicta- 
tors, consuls,  prators,  censors,  and  the 
chief  ediles  occupied  such  a  chair,  they 
were    termed    curule    magistrates    or 


Curzon  Street 


320 


Cut  Blocks 


curn'les.    Horace  calls  the  chair  euride 
ebur  (1  Epist.,  vi.  53). 

Curzon  Street  (Londou).  Named 
after  tlie  ground  laudlord,  George 
August  Curzon,  third  Viscount  Howe. 

Cussedness.  Uugaiuliness ;  perver- 
sity ;  an  evil  temper  ;  malice  prepense. 
Halliwell  gives  cnas  =  surly. 

"Tlie  turkey-cock  is  just  as  likely  as  not  to 
traiiiplfi  on  tlie  young  turkeys  and  smasli  tlieni, 
or  to  split  tlieir  skulls  liy  a  savage  dig  of  his 
powerful  beak.  Whether  this  Is  '  cussedness ' 
liure  and  siniiile  ....  lias  not  been  satisfactorily 
determined."— /^ai/)/  Xews,  December  :;:;ud,  l»is5. 

Custard.  A  slap  on  the  hand  with 
a  ferula.  The  word  should  be  citstUl, 
unless  a  play  is  meant.  (Latin,  cust'ts,  a 
club  or  stick.) 

Custard  Coffin.  ('SVc  Coffin.) 

Customer.  A  man  or  acquaintance. 
A  ri(i)i  custumcr  is  one  better  left  alone, 
as  he  is  likely  to  show  fight  if  interfered 
with.     A  shop  term.     (.SVr  Card.) 

"  Here  be  many  of  her  old  customers." 
.^Iiakiaiicare :  Mrasare  for  Measure,  iv.  3. 

Custos  Rotulo'rum  (keeper  of  the 
rolh).  The  chief  civil  ofhcer  of  a  county, 
to  whose  custody  are  committed  the 
records  or  rolls  of  the  sessions. 

Cut.  To  renounce  acquaintance.  There 
are  four  sorts  of  cut — 

(1)  The  cut  direct  is  to  stai^  an  ac- 
quaintance in  the  face  and  pretend  not 
to  know  him. 

(2)  The  eut  indirect,  to  look  another 
way,  and  pretend  not  to  see  him. 

(3)  The  cut  siihlinic,  to  admire  the  top 
of  some  tall  edifice  or  the  clouds  of 
heaven  till  the  person  cut  has  jjassed  by. 

(4)  The  cut  infernal,  to  stoop  and 
adjust  yoiu-  boots  till  the  party  has  gone 
past. 

There  is  a  very  remarkable  Scripture 
illustration  of  the  word  ci(t,  meaning  to 
renounce:  "Jehovah  took  a  staff  and 
cut  it  asunder,  in  token  that  He  would 
break  His  covenant  with  His  people  ;  and 
He  cut  another  staff  asunder,  in  token 
that  He  would  break  the  brotherhood 
between  Judah  and  Israel"  (Zech.  xi. 
7-14). 

Cut. 

Cut  and  come  again.  Take  a  cut  from 
the  joint,  and  come  for  another  if  you 
like. 

To  cut  the  (/round  from  t/ndcr  one  (or 
from  under  his  feet).  To  leave  an  ad- 
versary no  ground  to  stand  on,  by 
disproving  all  his  arguments. 

Ife  has  cut  his  eye-teeth.  He  is  wide 
awake,  he  is  a  knowing  one.  The  eye- 
teeth  are  the  canine   teeth,  just  under 


the  eyes,  and  the  phrase  means  he  can 
bite  as  well  as  bark.  Of  course,  the 
play  is  on  the  word  "  ej'e,"  and  those 
who  have  cut  their  eye-teeth  are  wide 
awake. 

Cut  your  wisdom  teeth.  Wisdom  teeth 
are  those  at  the  extreme  end  of  the 
jaws,  which  do  not  make  their  ajipear- 
auce  till  persons  have  come  to  years  of 
discretion.  Wlien  persons  say  or  do 
silly  things,  the  remark  is  made  to  them 
that  "they  have  not  yet  cut  their 
wisdom  teeth,"  or  reached  the  years  of 
discretion. 

(Jut  the  knot.  Break  through  an 
obstacle.  The  reference  is  to  the  Gor- 
dian  knot  {q.v.)  shown  to  Alexander, 
with  the  assurance  that  whoever  loosed 
it  would  be  made  ruler  of  all  Asia; 
whereupon  the  Macedonian  cut  it  in  two 
with  his  sword,  and  claimed  to  have 
fulfilled  the  prophecy. 

/  must  eut  my  stick — i.e.  leave.  The 
Irish  usuallj'  cut  a  shillelah  before  they 
start  on  an  expedition.  I'nnch  gives  the 
following  witty  derivation  :  — "  Pilgrims 
on  leaving  the  Holy  Land  used  to  cut  a 
palm  -  stick,  to  jirove  that  they  had 
really  been  to  the  Holy  Sepulchre.  So 
brother  Francis  would  say  to  brother 
Paul,  '  Where  is  brother  Beuedict  ?  ' 
'  Oh  (saj'S  Paul),  he  has  cut  his  stick  !  ' 
—  i.e.  he  is  on  his  way  home." 

/'//  cut  your  c<imh  fur  you.  Take 
your  conceit  down.  The  allusion  is  to 
the  practice  of  cutting  the  combs  of 
capons. 

He^ll  cut  up  well.  He  is  rich,  and  his 
property  will  cut  into  good  slices. 

Cut  Blocks  with  a  Razor  ( To) .    To 

do  something  astounding  by  insignificant 
means ;  to  do  something  more  eccentric 
than  inexpedient.  According  to  Dean 
Swift,  to  "make  pincushions  of  sun- 
beams." The  tale  is  that  Accius,  or 
Attus  Navius,  a  Roman  augur,  opposed 
the  king  Tarquin  the  Elder,  who  wished 
to  double  the  niunber  of  senators.  Tar- 
quin, to  throw  ridicule  on  the  augur, 
sneered  at  his  pretensions  of  augury,  and 
asked  him  if  he  could  do  what  was  then 
in  his  thoughts.  "Undoubtedly,"  re- 
plied Navius  ;  and  Tarquin  w^th  a  laugh, 
said,  "  Why,  I  was  thinking  whether  I 
could  cut  through  this  whetstone  with  a 
razor."  "Gut  boldly,"  cried  Navius, 
and  the  whetstone  was  cleft  in  two. 
This  story  forms  the  subject  of  one  of 
Bon  Gaultier's  ballads,  and  Goldsmith 
refers  to  it  in  his  Retaliation  : 

"In  short, 'twas  his  [Burke's] fate, unemi'loyed or 
in  place,  sir. 
To  eat  mutton  cold,  and  cut  blocks  with  a  razor." 


Cut 


321 


Cutlibert 


Cut  neither  Nails  nor  Hair  at  Sea. 

Petrouius  says,  '■' Xon  licere  culquum 
mortulium  in  nave  neque  ungues  neque 
capillus  deponcrc,  nisi  cum  pelugo  venlus 
irascitur.'"  The  cuttings  of  ithe  nails 
and  hair  were  votive  offerings  to  Pro- 
serjjiue,  and  it  would  excite  the  jealousy 
of  Neptune  to  make  offerings  to  another 
in  his  own  special  kingdom. 

Cut  Off  with  a  Shilling.  Disin- 
herited. Blackstone  tells  us  that  the 
Romans  set  aside  those  testaments  which 
passed  by  the  natural  heirs  unnoticed ; 
but  if  any  legacy  was  left,  no  matter 
how  small,  it  proved  the  testator's  in- 
tention. English  law  has  no  such 
provision,  but  the  notion  at  one  time 
prevailed  that  the  name  of  the  heir 
should  appear  in  the  will ;  and  if  lie  was 
bequeathed  "a  shilling,"  that  the  tes- 
tator had  not  forgotten  him,  but  disin- 
herited liim  intentionally. 

Cut  out.  Left  in  the  lurch ;  super- 
seded. In  cards,  when  there  are  too 
many  for  a  game  (say  whist),  it  is  cus- 
tomary for  the  players  to  cut  out  after 
a  [rubber],  in  order  that  another  player 
may  have  a  turn.  This  is  done  by  the 
players  cutting  the  cards  on  the  table, 
and  the  lowest  turn-up  gives  place  to 
the  new  hand,  who  "supersedes  "  him, 
or  takes  his  place. 

V  It  does  not  refer  to  cutting  out  a 
ship  from  an  enemy's  port. 

Jfe  is  cut  out  for  a  sailor.  His  na- 
tural propensities  are  suited  for  the 
vocation.  The  allusion  is  to  cutting  out 
cloth,  etc.,  for  specific  purposes. 

Cut  your  Coat  according  to  your 
Cloth.  Stretch  your  ann  no  farther 
than  your  sleeve  will  reach. 

"  Little  barks  must  keep  near  shore, 
Larger  ones  may  venture  more." 

Frcuch  :  "  Selon  ta  bourse  noun-is  ta 
bouche."  "Selon  le  pain  il  faut  le 
couteau."  "  Fou  est,  qui  plus  dispense 
que  sa  rente  ne  vaut." 

Italian:  "  Noi  facciamo  la  spese  se- 
condo  I'entrata." 

Latin:  "Ex  quovis  hgno  non  fit 
Mercurius."  "  Parvura  parva  decent" 
{Horace).  "  Messe  tenus  proj^ria  vive  " 
{Fersius).  "  Cui  multum  est  piperis, 
etiam  oleribus  immiscet."  "  Sumptus 
censum  ne  sujierat"  {Plautus).  "Si 
non  jjossis  quod  velis,  velis  id  quod 
2)ossis."  "  Ne  te  qutesiveris  extra" 
{Horace). 

Cut  a  Dash.  Make  a  show.  Cut  is 
the  French  coujH-r,  better  seen  in  the 

21 


noun  coiip,  as  a  grand  coup,  a  coup  de 
maitre  (a  masterly  stroke),  so  "to  cut  " 
means  to  make  a  masterly  coup,  to  do 
something  to  be  looked  at  and  talked 
about.  Dashing  means  striking — i.e. 
showy,  as  a  "  dashing  fellow,"  a  "  dash- 
ing equipage."  To  cut  a  dash  is  to 
get  one's  self  looked  at  and  talked  about 
for  a  showy  or  striking  appearance. 

Cut  and  Dry.  Already  prepared. 
"He  had  a  speech  all  cut  and  dry." 
The  allusion  is  to  timber  cut,  dry,  and 
fit  for  use. 

"  Sets  (if  iibniees,  cut  and  dry, 
Evermore  thy  tongue  supply."    Sirift. 

Cut  and  Run.  Be  off  as  quickly  as 
possible.  A  sea  phrase,  meaning  cut 
your  cable  and  run  before  the  wind. 

Cut  Away.  Be  off  at  once.  This  is 
a  French  phrase,  coupcr  (cut  away) — /.'■'. 
to  break  through  the  enemy's  ranks  by 
cutting  them  down  with  your  swords. 

Cut  Capers  {To).  To  act  in  an  un- 
usual manner. 

"The  quietest  fellows  are  forced  to  flght  for 
their  status  quo,  and  sometimes  to  cut  capers  like 
the  rest."— ie  Fanii:  Tlie  House  in  the  CliurcU- 
yard,  p.  143. 

To  cut  capers  (in  dancing)  is  to  spring 
upwards,  and  rapidly  interlace  one  foot 
with  the  other. 

Cut  j/our  capers  I    Be  off  »with  you  ! 

I^ll  make  him  cut  his  capers,  i.e.  rue 
his  conduct. 

Cut  it  Short.     {See  Attdley.) 

Cut  of  his  Jib.  The  contour  or  ex- 
pression of  his  face.  This  is  a  .sailor's 
phrase.  The  cut  of  a  jib  or  foresail  of 
a  ship  indicates  her  character.  Thus,  a 
sailor  says  of  a  suspicious  ve.'5sel,  he 
"  does  not  like  the  cut  of  her  jib." 

Cut  Short  is  to  shorten.  "Cut  .short 
all  intennission "  {Macbeth,  iv.  3).  To 
cut  it  short  means  to  bring  to  an  end 
what  you  are  doing  or  saying. 

His  life  was  cut  short.  He  died  pre- 
maturely. The  allusion  is  to  At'ropos, 
one  of  the  three  Parcae,  cutting  th& 
thread  of  life  .spun  by  her  sister  Clo'tho. 

Cut  up  Rough  {To).  To  be  disagree- 
able or  quarrelsome  about  anything. 

Cuthbert.  St.  Cuthherf  s  heads.  Joints 
of  the  articulated  stems  of  encrinites, 
used  for  z'osaries.  St.  Cuthbert  was  a 
Scotch  monk  of  the  sixth  centui-y,  and 
may  be  termed  the  St.  Patrick  of  Great 
Britain.  He  is  said  to  sit  at  night  on  a 
rock  in  Holy  Island,  and  to  ti.se  the  op- 
posite rock  as  his  anvil  while  he  forges 


Cuthbert  Bede 


322         Cyclopean  Masonry 


the    eii'trochites    {en' -tro- kites).      {See 
Bead.) 

"  On  a  rock  of  Lindisfarn 
St.  Cutbliert  sits,  and  toils  to  frame 
The  sea-boru  beads  that  bear  his  name." 

Scott:  Mariiiion. 

St.  Cuthbert''s  Stone.  A  granite  rock 
iu  Cumberland. 

St.  Cuthherfs  Well.  A  spring  of  water 
close  by  St.  Cuthbert's  Stone. 

Cuthbert  Bede.  A  nom  de  phtine 
of  the  Rev.  Edward  Bradley,  author  of 
Verdant  Green.     (1827-1889.) 

Cutler's  Poetry.  Mere  jingles  or 
rliymes.  Knives  had,  at  one  time,  a 
distich  inscribed  on  the  blade  by  means 
of  aqua  fortis. 

"  Whose  posy  wa.s 
For  all  the  world  like  cutler's  poetrj- 
Upon  a  knife." 

aiiakcspeare :  Merchant  of  Venice,  v.  1. 

Cutpurse.  Now  called  "pickpocket." 
The  two  words  are  of  historical  value. 
When  purses  were  worn  suspended  from 
a  girdle,  thieves  cut  the  string  by  which 
the  purse  was  attached ;  but  when 
pockets  were  adopted,  and  purses  were 
no  longer  hung  on  the  girdle,  the  thief 
was  no  longer  a  cutpurse,  but  became  a 
pickpocket. 

"  To  have  an  open  ear,  a  quick  e.ve,  and  a  nimble 
hand,  is  necessary  for  a  cutpurse."— Hhakcspeare  : 
)y inter' 8  Tale,  iv.  3. 

Cutter's  Law.  Not  to  see  a  fellow 
want  while  we  have  cash  in  our  purse. 
Cutter's  law  means  the  law  of  purse- 
cutters,  robbers,  brigands,  and  highway- 
men. 

"I  must  put  you  in  cash  wjth  some  of  your 
old  uncle's  broad-pieces.  This  is  cutter's  law; 
we  must  not  see  a  pretty  fellow  want,  if  we  have 
cash  ourselves."— Sir  IC.  Hcott :  Old  Mortality, 
chap.  ix. 

Cuttle.  Captain  Cuttle.  An  eccen- 
tric, kind-liearted  sailor,  simple  as  a 
child,  credulous  of  every  tale,  and  gen- 
erous as  the  sun.  He  is  immortalised  by 
the  motto  selected  by  Notes  and  Queries, 
"When  found  make  a  note  of."  {Diek- 
cns :  Dombei/  and  Son.) 

"  I'nfortunately,  I  neglected  Captain  Cuttle's 
advice,  and  am  now  unable  to  find  it."— ir.  H. 
Jluiik:  Notes  and  Queries. 

Cutty.  Scotch  for  short,  as  a  cutty 
pipe,  cutty  sark.  (A  diminutive  of  eurt.) 

Cutty  Pipe.  A  short  clay  pipe. 
Scotch,  cutty  (short),  as  cutty  spoons, 
cutty  sark,  a  cutty  (Uttle  girl),  etc.,  a 
cutty  gun  (a  pop-gun). 

Cutty  Stool.  A  small  stool  on  which 
oifenders  were  placed  in  the  Scotch 
church  when  they  were  about  to  receive 
a  public  rebuke. 


Cwt.  is  C  wt. — i.e.  C.  centum,  wt. 
veil/lit,  meaning  hundred- weight.     {See 

DWT.) 

Cyan'ean  Rocks  {T/ie).  The  Sj'm- 
ple'gades  at  the  entrance  of  the  Euxiue 
Sea.  Said  to  close  together  when  a  ves- 
sel attempted  to  sail  between  them,  and 
thus  crush  it  to  pieces.  Cyanean  means 
dark,  and  SymjjlegadOi  means  das/iers 
together. 

"  Here  are  those  liard  rocks  of  trap,  of  a  green- 
ish-blue, coloured  w'ith  copper,  and  ueuce  called 
the  Cyaneau."— 0 iif  ler. 

Cy'cle.  A  period  or  series  of  events 
or  numbers  which  recur  everlastingly  in 
precisely  the  same  order. 

Ci/cle  of  the  moon,  called  "Meton's 
Cycle,"  from  Meton,  who  discovered  it, 
is  a  period  of  nineteen  years,  at  the 
expiration  of  which  time  the  phases  of 
the  moon  repeat  themselves  on  the  same 
days  as  they  did  nineteen  years  pre- 
viously.    {See  Callipic  Period.) 

Cijcle  of  the  sun.  A  period  of  twenty- 
eight  years,  at  the  expiration  of  which 
time  the  Sunday  letters  recur  and  pro- 
ceed in  the  same  oider  as  they  did 
twenty-eight  j'cars  previously.  In  other 
words,  the  days  of  the  month  fall  again 
on  the  same  days  of  the  week. 

The  Platonic  cycle  or  yreat  year  is 
that  space  of  time  wliich  elapses  before 
all  the  stars  and  constellations  return 
to  any  given  state.  Tj-cho  Brahe  cal- 
culated this  period  at  25,816  years,  and 
Eiccio'li  at  25,920. 

Cyc'lic  Poets.  Inferior  epic  poets. 
On  the  death  of  Homer  a  host  of  min- 
strels caught  the  contagion  of  his  i^oems, 
and  wrote  continuations,  illustrations, 
or  additions  thereto.  These  poets  were 
called  cyclic  because  they  confined  them- 
selves to  the  c^'cle  of  the  Trojan  war. 
The  chief  were  Ag'ias,  Arcti'nos,  Eu'ga- 
mon,  Les'ches,  and  Strasinos. 

"  Besides  the  Homeric  poems,  the  Greeks  of  this 
aife  possessed  those  of  the  poets  named  Cyclic,  as 
they  sang  a  traditional  cycle  of  events  .  .  .  ."— 
Keiyhtley :  Oreece,  part  i.  chap.  2iiv.  p.  150. 

Cyclopse'dia.  The  living  cyclopcedia. 
Longi'nus,  so  called  for  his  extensive 
information.     (213-273.) 

Cyclo'pean.  Huge,  massive,  like  the 
Cycloids  of  classic  mythology. 

Cyclo'pean  Masonry.    The  old  Pe- 

lasgic  ruins  of  Greece,  Asia  Minor,  and 
Italy,  such  as  the  Gallery  of  Ti'rj-ns,  the 
Gate  of  Lyons,  the  Treasury  of  Athens, 
and  the  Tombs  of  Phoro'ueus  (3  syl.)  and 
Dan'aos.  They  are  said  to  have  been 
the  work  of  the  C.yclops.    They  are  huge 


Cyclops 

blocks  fitted  together  without  mortar, 
with  marvellous  nicety. 

Cyclops.  One  of  a  group  of  giants 
with  only  one  eye,  and  that  in  the 
centre  of  their  forehead,  whose  business 
it  was  to  forge  iron  for  Vulcan.  They 
were  probably  Pelasgiaiis,  who  worked 
in  quarries,  and  attached  a  lantern  to 
their  forehead  to  give  them  light  under- 
gi'ound.  The  lantern  was  theii-  one  eye 
as  biff  as  the  full  moon.  (Gi'eek,  "circu- 
lar-eye.")    "(iSVf  Abimaspiaks.) 

"  Roused  with  tUe  smiiiil,  tlif  luiKlity  f;imily 
Of  liiie-eyed  ludtliers  luisteii  tu  Uie  sliore. 
And  gather  rcmud  the  IreUuwini,'  rolypheiiio." 
Addison:  ililtuu  Imitated. 

Cyll'aros,  according  to  Virgil,   was 
the  celebrated  horse  of  Pollux  {Geor.,  iii. 
90),  but,  according  to  Ovid,  it  was  Cas- 
tor's steed  {Met.,  xii.  408). 
"  He,  O  Castor,  was  a  courser  worthy  thee  .  .  . 
I'oal-black  his  colour,  hut  like  jet  it  shone  ; 
His  legs  and  flowing  tail  were  white  alone." 
Drydtn  :  Ovid's  Metamorphose,  xii. 

Cymbeline.    {See  Imogen,  Zineura.) 

Cymoch'les.  A  man  of  prodigious 
might,  brother  of  Pj'roch'les,  son  of 
Malice  (Acra'tes)  and  Despite,  and  hus- 
band of  Acra'sia,  the  enchantress.  He 
sets  out  to  encounter  Sir  Guyon,  but  is 
ferried  over  the  idle  lake  by  Wanton- 
ness (Phai'dria) ,  and  forgets  himself ;  he 
is  slain  by  King  Arthur  (canto  viii.). 
The  word  means,  "one  who  seeks  glory 
in  troubles."  {Spenser:  Faerie  Quccne, 
ii.  5.) 

Cymod'oce  (4  syl.).  A  sea  nymjih 
and  companion  of  Venus.  {Yiryil : 
Geornic,  iv.  338  ;  and  again,  uEneid,  v. 
826.)  The  word  means  "wave-receiv- 
ing." 

I'lie  Garden  of  Cijniod'oce.  Sark,  one 
of  the  Channel  islands.  It  is  the  title  of 
a  poem  by  Swinburne,  1880. 

Cynaegiros.  It  is  said  that  when  the 
Persians  were  pushing  off  from  shore 
after  the  battle  of  Marathon,  Cj'ua^gl- 
ros,  the  brother  of  ^Eschylos,  the  poet, 
seized  one  of  their  ships  with  his  right 
hand,  which  was  instantly  lopped  off ; 
he  then  gi-asped  it  with  his  left,  which 
was  cut  oft'  also ;  lastly,  he  seized  hold 
of  it  with  his  teeth  and  lost  his  head. 
{See  Benbow.) 

Cynic.  A  snarling,  churlish  person, 
like  a  cynic.  The  Cynics  were  so  called 
because  Antis'thenes  held  his  school  in 
the  gymnasium  called  Cynosar  ges,  set 
apart  for  those  who  were  not  of  ytnve 
Athenian  blood.  Cynosarges  means 
tvliitc  doff,  and  was  so  called  because  a 
white  dog  once  carried  away  part  of  a 


323  Cjrpresg 


victim  which  Diome'os  was  offering  to 
Hercules.  The  sect  was  often  called  the 
Dog-sect ;  and  the  effigy  over  Diogenes' 
pillar  was  a  dog,  with  this  inscription  : 

"Say, dog,  I  pray,  what  guard  you  in  that  tonili?" 
'A  dog."— "  His  name  ?"—"  DiogeuSi."—"  From 

fai^?" 
"  Sino'ie.''— '■  What !  who  made  a  tul)  his  home  ?'" 
"  The   same  ;   now  dead,  amongst  the  stars  a 
star."  E.  C.  B. 

Cynic  Tub  {The).  The  tub  from 
which  Diogenes  lectured.  Similarly  we 
speak  of  the  "Porch,"  that  is,  the 
Porch  Pcecile,  meaning  Stoic  philosophy ; 
the  "Garden,"  meaning  Epicurean  phi- 
losophy ;  the  "  Academy,"  meaning  Pla- 
tonic philosophy:  the  "Colonnade," 
meaning  Aristotelian  philosophy. 

"[They]fetch  their  doctrines  from  theC'ynictub." 
Milton  :  Coinus,  line  "iJS. 

Cynics.  The  chief  were  Antis'thenes 
of  Athens  (the  founder),  Diogenes, 
Ouesic'iitos,  Mon'imos,  Crates  and  his 
wife  Hippai-'chia,  Metroc'les,  Menip'pos, 
and  Menede'mos  the  madman. 

Cynosure  (3  syl.).  The  polar  star; 
the  observed  of  all  observers.  Greek 
for  doff^s  tail,  and  applied  to  the  con- 
stellation called  Ursa  Minor.  As  seamen 
guide  their  ships  by  the  north  star,  and 
observe  it  well,  the  word  "cj^nosure" 
is  used  for  whatever  attracts  attention, 
as  "  The  cynosure  of  neighbouring 
eyes"  {Milton),  especially  for  guidance 
in  some  doubtful  matter,  as — 

"  Richmond  was  the  cynosure  on  which  all 
Northern  eyes  were  flxed  [in  the  American  war]." 

—  The  Times. 

Cyn'thia.  The  moon  ;  a  surname  of 
Artemis  or  Diana.  The  Eoman  Diana, 
who  rejiresented  the  moon,  was  called 
Cj'nthia  from  Mount  Cyuthus,  where  she 
was  born. 

"  And  from  embattled  clouds  emerging  slow, 
Cyuthia  came  riding  on  her  silver  car." 

lieattie :  Minstrel. 

Cynthia.  Pope,  speaking  of  the  in- 
constant character  of  woman,  ' '  matter 
too  soft  a  lasting  mark  to  bear,"  says — 

"  Come,  then,  the  cohuirs  and  the  ground  prei'are  ! 
Dip  in  the  rainbow,  trick  her  off  in  air  : 
Choose  a  firm  cloud,  before  it  fall,  and  in  it 
Catch,  ere   she   change,  the   Cynthia   of   tlie 
minute."  Epistle  ii.  17-Lii. 

Cypress  {The)  is  a  funeral  tree,  and 
was  dedicated  by  the  Romans  to  Pluto, 
because  when  once  cut  it  never  grows 
again. 

"  Cypresse  garlands  are  of  great  account  at 
f  uneralls  amongst  the  gentiler  sort,  but  rosemary 
and  bayes  are  used  by  the  commons  both  at 
funeralls  and  weddings.  They  are  plants  which 
fade  n<it  a  iriiud  while  after  they  are  gathered 
.  .  .  .  and  intimate  tint  the  remembrance  of  the 
present  scdenmity  might  not  dye  presently." — 
Coles :  Introduction  to  the  Knowledge  of  Plants. 


C3rprian  Brass 


324 


Daffodil 


The  iiiac/ic  cij press  branch.  lu  the 
opera  of  Jioberlo  il  Diav'olo,  after  the 
"(lauce  of  love,"  in  which  Helena 
seduces  the  duke,  he  removes  the  cypress 
branch,  which  has  the  power  of  impart- 
ing to  him  whatever  he  wishes.  With 
this  he  enters  the  jialace  of  Isabella, 
princess  of  Sicily,  and  translixes  the 
princess  and  her  attendants  in  a  magic 
sleep,  but  afterwards  relenting,  he  breaks 
the  branch,  and  is  dragged  away  by  the 
guards. 

Cyprian  Brass,  or  ";es  Cyprium," 
copper,  riiny  (book  xxxiv.  c.  ii.)  says, 
"  ui    Cypru    citliii    frriiiia    ccris   invcntio 

Cypriote.  A  native  of  Cyprus  ;  the 
dialect  sitokcn  on  the  island  ;  jjertaining 
or  special  to  Cyprus. 


D.  This  letter  is  the  outline  of  a  rude 
archway  or  door.  It  is  called  in  Hebrew 
(lahth  (a  door).  In  Egyjitian  hiero- 
glyphics it  is  a  man's  hand. 

D  or  d,  indicating  a  penny  or  pence, 
is  the  initial  letter  of  the  'Lvdmdciiii'riiis, 
a  silver  coin  equal  to  S|d.  during  the 
commonwealth  of  Rome,  but  in  the 
Middle  Ages  about  equivalent  to  ocu- 
penny.  The  word  was  used  by  the 
Komans  for  money  in  general. 

D  stands  for  oOO,  which  is  half  =&  ,  a 
form  of  0)  or  M,  which  stands  for  mUlc. 

D'  stands  for  5,000. 

D.O.M.  Deo  Optimo  Mdxlino.  Ihilitr 
(iiit'iiibiis  inorl  (It  is  allotted  to  all  to 
die). 

D.T.  A  contraction  of  (('<7/;-(«;«  tremens. 

"They  get  a  look,  after  a  touch  of  D.T.,  whicli 
ndthing  else  that  I  kuow  of  cau  give  them."— 
Indian  Tale. 

Da  Capo  or  D.C.  From  tlie  begin- 
ning— that  is,  finish  with  a  repetition  of 
the  first  strain.  A  term  in  music. 
{Italian.) 

Dab.  Clever,  skilled  ;  as  "  a  dab- 
hand  at  it";  a  corrujjt  contraction  of 
the  Latin  adept  as  (an  adept).  "  Dab- 
ster "  is  another  form.  A2jt  is  a  related 
word. 

"An  Eton  striiiling,  training  for  tlie  law, 
Adimceat  learning,  but  a  dab  at  taw  [marbles].'' 
Anon. :  Logic  ;  or,  The  Biter  Bit. 

Dab,  Din,  etc. 

"Hah  Daliand  David  Din 
Uiug  tlie  deil  o'er  Dabsou's  Linn." 


"  Hab  Dab  "  means  Halbert  Dobson  ; 
"  David  Diu  "  means  David  Dun;  and 
"  Dabson's  Linn,"  or  Dob's  Linn,  is  a 
waterfall  near  the  head  of  Moffat  Water, 

Dnbsun  and  Dun  wore  two  Cauicronians  who 
li\  od  for  seiuritv  in  a  rave  in  tlic  ravino.  Here, 
as  Iliev  said,  llicv  saw  llic  devil  in  the  form  of  a 
I)ark  of  ilriiMl  liidrs.and  after  llgliliriL-  the -foul 
lii-iiil''  for  souic  time,  thoy  dinged  luni  into  the 
walorfall. 

Daba'ira.  An  idol  of  the  savages  of 
Panama',  to  whose  honour  slaves  are 
burut  to  death.     (American  inijtliulugy.) 

Dab'bat  [the  Iicnsf\.  The  Beast  of 
the  Apocalypse,  Avhich  the  Mahometans 
say  will  apjiear  with  Antichrist,  called  by 
them  dai/ijial.     (Rev.  xix.  19  ;  xx.  10.) 

Dabble.  To  dabble  in  the  fitnds  ;  to 
dabble  in  polities — i.e.  to  do  something  iu 
them  in  a  smtdl  way.  (Dutch,  dableleii, 
our  dip  anil  tap.) 

Dabchick.    The  lesser  giebe.    Dab 

is  a  corrujition  of  dap,  the  old  participle 
of  dip,  aiul  chick  (any  young  or  small 
fowl),  literally  the  ili2>ping  or  diving 
chirk. 

Dactyl  (//'(//).  The  "smallest  of 
pedants."     {Steele:  The  'Tatler.) 

Dactyls  {The).  Mythic  beings  to 
whom  is  ascribed  the  discovery  of  iron. 
Their  number  was  originally  three — the 
Smelter,  the  Hammer,  and  the  Anvil ; 
but  was  afterwards  increased  to  five 
males  anil  five  females,  whence  their 
name  Dactyls  or  Fingers. 

Dad  or  Daddy.  Father.  The  person 
who  acts  as  father  at  a  wedding ;  a 
stage-manager.  The  superintendent  of 
a  casual  ward  is  termed  by  the  inmates 
"Old  Daddy."  {A  M(/ht  in  a  Worlc- 
hoase,  bi)  an  Amateur  Casaal  [./.  Green- 
icooil].) 

In  the  Fortanes  of  Xiijel,  by  Sir  W. 
Scott,  Steenie,  Duke  of  Buckingham, 
calls  King  James  "My  dear  tlad  and 
gossip."  (W^elsh,  tad  ;  Irish,  daid, 
father;  Sanskrit,  tada ;  Hindu,  dada.) 

Daddy  Long-legs.  A  crane-fly  ; 
sometimes  applied  to  the  long-legged 
si^iders  called  "harvestmen." 

Dse'dalos.  A  Greek  who  formed  the 
Cretan  labyrinth,  and  made  for  himself 
wings,  by  means  of  Avhich  he  fiew  from 
Crete  across  the  Archipel'ago.  He  is 
said  to  have  invented  the  saw,  the  axe, 
the  gimlet,  etc. 

Daffodil  {The),  or  "Lent  Lily,"  was 
once  white ;  but  Persephone,  daughter 
of  Demeter  (Ceres),  delighted  to  wander 


Dag 


325 


Dahak 


about  the  flowery  meadows  of  Sicily. 
Oue  spring- tide  she  tripped  over  the 
meadows,  wreathed  her  liead  with  wild 
lilies,  and,  throwing  herself  on  the  gi'ass, 
fell  asleep.  The  god  of  the  Infernal 
Regions,  called  by  the  Romans  Pluto, 
fell  in  love  with  the  beautiful  maid,  and 
carried  her  off  for  his  bride.  His  touch 
turned  the  white  flowers  to  a  golden 
yellow,  and  some  of  them  fell  in  Acheron, 
where  they  grew  luxuriantly  ;  and  ever 
since  the  flower  has  been  planted  on 
graves.  Theophilus  and  Pliny  tell  us 
that  the  ghosts  delight  in  the  flower, 
called  by  tliem  the  Asphodel.  It  was 
once  called  the  Affodil.  (French,  aspho- 
dcli: ;  Latin,  asphodilKS ;  Greek,  asjjho- 
dilos.) 

"  Flour  of  daffodil  is  a  cure  for  madness."— 
Med.  MS.  Lincoln  Cathedral,  f .  "8-'. 

Dag  {darj).  Son  of  Natt  or  night. 
{8candinin-iuu  mi/thohtjij.) 

Dagger  or  Lou(j  Cross  (f),  used  for 
reference  to  a  note  after  the  asterisk  (*), 
is  a  Roman  Catholic  character,  originally 
emploj^ed  in  church  books,  i^raj-ers  of 
exorcism,  at  benedictions,  and  so  on,  to 
remind  the  priest  where  to  make  the 
sign  of  the  cross.  This  sign  is  sometimes 
called  an  obelisk — that  is,  "a  spit." 
(Greek,  uh'clos,  a  spit.) 

Dagger,  in  the  City  anns  of  London, 
commemorates  Sir  William  Walworth's 
dagger,  with  which  he  slew  Wat  Tyler 
in  1381.  Before  this  time  the  cogni- 
sance of  the  City  was  the  sword  of  St. 
Paul. 

"  Brave  Wahvortli,  knigbt,  lord  mayor,  that  slew 
Reliellious  Tyler  in  liis  alarines  : 
Tbe  king,  therefore,  did  give  him  in  lieu 
The  dagger  to  the  city  amies." 

Fourth  year  nf  Richard  II.  (1331), 
Fishmoiif/ers'  Hall. 

Dagger    Ale    is    the    ale     of    the 

Dagger,  a  celebrated  ordinary  in 
Holbom. 

"My  lawyer's  clerk  I  lighted  on  last  night 
In  Holborn,  at  the  Danffcr." 

Jlcn  Jonson:  The  Alchcmi.<t,  i.  1. 

Dagger-scene  in  the  House  of 
Commons.  Edmund  Burke,  during 
the  French  Revolution,  tried  a  bit  of 
bunkum  by  throwing  down  a  dagger  on 
the  floor  of  the  House,  exclaiming  as  he 
did  so,  "There's  French  fraternity  for 
you  !  Such  is  the  weapon  which  French 
Jacobins  would  plunge  into  the  heart  of 
our  beloved  king."  Sheridan  spoilt  the 
dramatic  effect,  and  set  the  House  in  a 
roar  by  his  remark,  "The  gentleman,  I 
see,  has  brought  his  knife  with  him,  but 
where  is  his  fork?"  (Sec  CouP  DK 
Theatee.) 


Daggers.  To  speak  daggers,  To  look 
daggers.  To  speak  or  look  so  as  to  wound 
the  sensibilities. 

"1  will  siieak  daggers  to  her;  hut  will  use 
m>nc."—Shakespeare :  llamlot,  iii.  :;. 

Daggers  Drawn  {At).  At  great 
enmity,  as  if  with  daggers  drawn  and 
ready  to  rush  on  each  otlier. 

Daggle  -  tail    or    Draggle-tail.    A 

slovenly  woman,  the  bottom  of  whose 
dress  trails  in  the  dirt.  Dag  (Saxon) 
means  loose  ends,  mire  or  dirt ;  whence 
dag-loelcs,  the  soiled  locks  of  a  sheep's 
fleece,  andt^rfy-woo/, refuse  wool.  (Com- 
pare Tag.) 

Dagobert.  King  Dagohcrt  and  St. 
Eloi.  There  is  a  French  song  very 
popular  with  this  title.  St.  Eloi  tells 
the  king  his  coat  has  a  hole  in  it,  and 
the  kuig  replies,  "  C\'st  vral,  le  tlen  est 
hon  ;  jrrcte-lc  iiioi."  Next  the  saint  com- 
plains of  the  king's  stockings,  and 
Dagobert  makes  the  same  answer.  Then 
of  his  wig  and  cloak,  to  which  the  same 
answer  is  returned.  After  seventeen 
complaints  St.  Eloi  said,  ' '  My  king, 
death  is  at  hand,  and  it  is  time  to  con- 
fess," when  the  king  replied,  "Why 
can't  j'ou  confess,  and  die  instead  of 
me?  " 

Da'gon   (Hebrew,   dc/g    On,   the  fish 
On).     The  idol  of  the  Philistines  ;  half 
woman  and  half  fish.      {Bee  Atekgata.) 
"  nagon  his  name  ;  sea-monster,  upward  man 
Anil  downward  tish  ;  yet  had  liis  temiih;  high 
Ueav'd  in  Azo'tus,  dreaded  through  the  coast 
Of  Palestine,  in  Gath  and  As'ealon, 
And  .\ccaron  and  (iaza's  frontier  bounds." 

Milton:  Paradise  Lost,  book  i.  4fi2. 

Dag'onet  (Sir).  In  the  romance  Za 
Mart  d'' Art Jiiire  he  is  called  i\ie  fool  oi 
King  Arthur,  and  was  knighted  by  the 
king  himself. 

'•  I  remember  at  Mile-End  Green,  when  I  lay  at 
Clement's  Inn,  I  was  then  Sir  Dagonet  in  Arthur's 
show."— 2  Heirnj  /('.,  iii.  •_'.  (Justice  Shallow). 

V  "Dagonet"  is  the  pen-name  oi 
Mr.  G.  R.  Sims. 

Daguer'reotype  (4  syl.).  A  photo- 
graphic process.  So  named  from  M. 
Daguerre,  who  greatly  improved  it  in 
1839.     {See  Talbotype.) 

Da'gun.  A  god  worshipped  in  Pegu. 
When  Iviak'iak  des-troyed  the  world, 
Dagiin  reconstructed  it.    {Indian  mgtJto- 

Dahak.  The  Satan  of  Persia-.  Ac- 
cording to  Persian  mythology,  the  ages 
of  the  world  are  divided  into  periods  of 
1,000  years.  When  the  cycle  of  "  chil- 
ia.sms  "  (1,000-year  periods)  is  complete, 
the  reign  of  Ormuzd  will  begin,  and  men 


Dahlia 


326 


Dalgetty 


will  be  all  good  and  all  happy ;  but  this 
eveut  will  be  preceded  by  the  loosing  of 
Dahak,  who  will  break  his  chain  and 
fall  upon  the  world,  and  bring  on  man 
the  most  dreadful  calamities.  Two 
prophets  will  appear  to  cheer  the 
oppressed,  and  announce  the  advent  of 
Ormuzd. 

Dahlia.  A  flower.  So  called  from 
Amliew  Dahl,  the  Swedish  botanist. 

Dahomey  is  not  derived  from  Daho, 
the  founder  of  the  palace  so  called,  but 
is  a  corruiitionof  Dauh-homen,  "  Dauh's 
Belly."  The  story  is  as  follows  :  Ardrah 
divided  Ids  kingdom  at  death  between 
his  thi'ee  sons,  and  Daho,  one  of  the 
sons,  received  the  northern  portion. 
Being  an  enterprising  and  ambitious 
man,  he  coveted  the  country  of  his 
neighbour  Danh,  King  of  Gedavin,  and 
first  apj)lied  to  him  for  a  plot  of  land  to 
build  "a  huuse  on.  This  being  granted, 
Daho  made  other  requests  in  quick 
succession,  and  Dauh's  iiatience  being 
exhausted,  he  exclaimed,  "  Must  I  open 
my  bellj^  for  you  to  build  on?"  On 
hearing  this,  Daho  declared  himself  in- 
sulted, made  war  on  Danh,  and  slew  him. 
He  then  built  his  palace  where  Danh 
fell,  and  called  it  Danh-homen.  {Xiiie- 
tecnth  Cciiitiri/,  October,  1890,  pp.  6O0-6.) 

Da'i'both  (3  syl.).  A  Japanese  idol  of 
colossal  size.  Each  of  her  hands  is  full 
of  hands.     {Japanese  mythology.) 

Da'i'koku  (4  syl.).  The  god  invoked 
specially  by  the  'artisans  of  Japan.  He 
sits  on  a  ball  of  rice,  holding  a  hammer 
in  his  hand,  ^^•ith  which  he  beats  a  sack  ; 
and  every  time  he  does  so  the  sack  be- 
comes full  of  silver,  rice,  cloth,  and  other 
useful  articles.     {Japanese  mythology.) 

Da'i'ri  (3  syl.).  The  royal  residence 
in  Japan  ;  the  court  of  the  mikado,  used 
by  metonomy  for  the  sovereign  or  chief 
pontiff  himself. 

Dairy.  A  corrupt  form  of ' '  dey-ery, ' ' 
Middle  English  deicrie  and  deyycrye, 
from  deye,  a  dairjTnaid. 

"  The  dey  or  farni-wonian  entered  with  her 
pitchers,  tu  deliver  the  milk  for  the  family."— 
Hcott:  Fair  Maid  of  Perth,  chap,  xxxii. 

Da'is.  The  raised  floor  at  the  head 
of  a  dining-room,  designed  for  guests  of 
distinction  (French,  r/ffi«,  a  canopy).  So 
called  because  it  used  to  be  decorated 
with  a  canopy.  The  proverb  *'  Sons  le 
dais  "  means  "in  the  midst  of  gi-andeur." 

Daisies.  Slang  for  boots,  Explained 
nn^r  Chivy. 


Dai'sy.  Ophelia  gives  the  queen  a 
daisy  to  signify  "that  her  light  and 
fickle  love  ought  not  to  exjjcct  constancy 
in  her  husband."  So  the  daisy  is  ex- 
plained by  Greene  to  mean  a  Quip  for 
an  upstart  courtier.  (Anglo-Saxon  dicgcs 
cage,  day's  eye.) 

The  word  is  Day^s  eye,  and  the  flower 
is  so  called  because  it  closes  its  pinky 
lashes  and  goes  to  sleep  wlien  the  suu 
sets,  but  in  the  morning  it  expands  its 
petals  to  the  light.     {See  Violet.) 

"  Tliat  well  hy  reason  men  c;ille  it  maie. 
The  daisic,  or  else  the  eie  of  the  daie. 

Chaucer. 

Daisy  {Solomon).  Parish  clerk  of 
Chigwell.  He  had  little,  round,  black, 
shiny  eyes  like  beads  ;  wore  rusty  black 
breeches,  a  rusty  black  coat,  and  a  long- 
fiajiped  waistcoat  with  queer  little 
buttons.  Solomon  Daisy,  with  Phil 
Parkes,  the  ranger  of  Epping  Forest, 
Tom  Cobb,  the  chandler  and  post-office 
keeper,  and  John  Willet,  mine  host, 
formed  a  quadrilateral  or  village  club, 
which  used  to  meet  night  after  night  at 
the  Maypole,  on  the  borders  of  the 
forest.  Daisy's  famous  talc  was  the 
murder  of  Mr.  Reuben  Haredale,  and  the 
conviction  that  the  nun-derer  would  be 
found  out  on  the  19th  of  March,  the 
anniversary  of  the  murder.  {Dickens  : 
Jbarnaby  liutlge,  chap,  i.,  etc.) 

Daisy-cutter  {A).  In  cricket,  a  ball 
that  is  bowled  all  along  the  gi'ound. 

Daisy-roots,  like  dwarf -elder  berries, 
are  said  to  stunt  the  growth  ;  hence  the 
fairy  Milkah  fed  her  royal  foster-child 
on  this  food,  that  his  standard  might  not 
exceed  that  of  a  ijigmy.  This  super- 
stition arose  from  the  notion  that  every- 
thing had  the  property  of  bestowing  its 
own  speciality  on  others.  {See  Feen 
Seed.) 

"  Slie  robbed  dwarf-elders  of  their  fragrant  fruit, 
And  fed  him  early  with  the  daisy  ro(jt. 
Whence  through  his  veins  the  powerful  juices 

ran, 
And  formed  the  beauteous  miinatnre  of  man. 
Tickell :  Kensington  Gardens. 

Dala'i-Lama  [grand  lama'].  Chief  of 
the  two Tai'tar  priests — a  sort  of  incarnate 
deity.  The  other  lama  is  called  the 
"  Tesho-lama." 

Dal'dah.  Mahomet's  favourite  white 
mule. 

Dalgar'no  {Lord).  A  heartless  profli- 
gate in  Scott's  Fortunes  of  Nigel. 

Dalget'ty  {Dugald).  Jeffrey  calls 
him  "  a  compound  of  Captain  Fluellen 
and  Bob'adil,"  but  this  is  scarcely  just. 
Without  doubt,  he  has  all  the  pedantry 


Dalkey 


327         Damon  and  Pythias 


and  conceit  of  the  former,  and  all  the 
vulgar  assurance  of  the  latter ;  but, 
unlike  Bobadil,  he  is  a  man  of  real 
courage,  and  wholly  trustworthy  to  those 
who  pay  him  for  the  service  of  his  sword, 
which,  like  a  thrifty  mercenary,  he  lets 
out  to  the  highest  bidder.  {Scott:  Legend 
of  Montrose.) 

"Neitlier  Schiller,  Strada,  Thuamis,  Monroe, 
nor  Diife'ald  Dalgetty  makes  any  mention  of  it."— 
Carhjle. 

Dalkey  {King  of).  A  kind  of 
"Mayor  of  Garrat"  {q.v.)  at  Kings- 
town, in  Ireland.  A  full  description  is 
given  of  this  mock  mayor,  etc.,  in  a 
book  entitled  Ireland  Ninety  Years  Ago. 

Dalle  (French),  ecu  de  six  francs  (os.). 
Money  generally. 

"  (^)iiicon(iiie  parleroit  de  paix  ....  payeroit  a 
la  liourse  <le  rCnion  certaine  iiuantite  de  dales, 
pour  I'entretenenient  des  docteurs."  —  Satijre 
Metiippee,  18i'4,  p.  1«3. 

Dalmat'ica  or  Dalm/fi'ic.  A  robe, 
open  in  front,  reaching  to  the  knees ; 
worn  at  one  time  by  deacons  over  the 
alb  or  stole,  when  the  Euchari.st  was  ad- 
ministered. It  is  in  imitation  of  the 
regal  vest  of  Dalma'tia,  and  was  im- 
ported into  Rome  by  the  Emperor 
Com'modus.  A  similar  robe  was  worn 
by  kings,  in  the  Middle  Ages,  at  corona- 
tions and  other  great  solemnities,  to 
remind  them  of  their  duty  of  bountiful- 
ness  to  the  poor.  The  right  sleeve  was 
plain  and  full,  but  the  left  was  fringed 
and  tasselled.  Deacons  had  broader 
sleeves  than  sub-deacous,  to  indicate 
their  duty  to  larger  generosity ;  for  a 
similar  reason  the  sleeves  of  a  bishop 
are  larger  than  those  of  a  priest.  The 
two  stripes  before  and  behind  were  to 
show  that  the  wearer  should  exercise  his 
charity  to  all. 

Dam.  An  Indian  copper  coin,  the 
fortieth  part  of  a  rupee.  Hence  the  ex- 
pression "  Not  worth  a  dam  "  ;  similarly 
"  not  worth  a  farthing,"  "not  worth  a 
rap"  (q.v.)  ;  "not  worth  a  sou,"  "not 
worth  a  stiver,"  etc. 

Dam'age.  Whafs  the  damage  ?  What 
have  I  to  i^ay  ?  how  much  is  the  bill  ? 
The  allusion  is  to  the  law  assessing 
damages  in  remuneration  to  the  plaintiff. 

Dam 'ask  Linen.  So  called  from 
Damascus,  where  it  was  originally  manu- 
factured. 

Damaskeening.  Producing  upon 
steel  a  blue  tinge  and  ornamental  figures, 
sometimes  inlaid  with  gold  and  silver, 
as  ia  Damascus  blades ;  so  called  from 


Damascus,  which  was  celebrated  in  the 
Middle  Ages  for  this  class  of  ornamental 
art. 

Dambe'a  or  Bemlefa.  A  lake  in 
Go  jam,  Abyssinia,  the  source  of  the 
Blae  Nile.  Captain  Speke  traced  the 
TF/iite  Nile  to  Lake  Victoria  N'yanza, 
which,  no  doubt,  is  fed  by  the  Mountains 
of  the  Moon. 

"  He  [tlio  Nile]  tlirn'  the  lucid  lake 
Of  fair  Dambea  rolls  liis  infant  stream.'' 

Thuynsoii :  Summer,  807-8. 

Dame  du  Lac.  A  fay,  named 
Vivienne,  who  plunged  with  the  infant 
Lancelot  into  a  lake.  This  lake  was  a 
kind  of  mirage,  concealing  the  demesnes 
of  the  lady  "  en  la  marche  de  la  petite 
Breiaigne.''^     {See  Vivienne.) 

"En  ce  lieu  ....  avoit  la  dame  moult  de  belles 
maisons  et  moult  riches  :  et  an  plain  dessouhs 
elle  avoit  une  gente  p'^-tite  riviere." 

Damiens'   Bed    of  Steel.      R.  F. 

Damiens,  in  1757,  attempted  the  life  of 
Louis  XV.  He  was  taken  to  the  Con- 
ciergerie ;  an  iron  bed,  which  likewise 
served  as  a  chair,  was  prepared  for  him, 
and  to  tliis  he  was  fastened  with  chains. 
He  was  then  tortured,  and  ultimately 
torn  to  pieces  by  wild  horses.  {Smollet: 
Histury  of  England,  v.  12,  p.  39.) 

"  The  uplifted  axe,  the  acronising  wheel, 
Luke's  iron  crown,  and  Damiens'  hed  of  steel." 
Huldsmith  :  The  Traveller  U7U8). 

Damn    with    Faint    Praise.      To 

praise  with  such   a  voice   and   in   such 

measured  tenns  as  to  show  plainly  secret 

disapproval. 

"  Damn  with  faint  praise,  assent  with  civil  leer. 
And,  without  sneeririL,',  teach  tlie  rest  to  sneer." 
I'uiie  :  Epiistle  to  Arbutlinot. 

Dam'ocles'  Sword.  Evil  foreboded 
or  dreaded.  Dam'ocles,  the  sycophant 
of  Dionysius  the  elder,  of  Syracuse,  was 
invited  by  the  tyrant  to  try  the  felicity 
he  so  much  envied.  Accordingly  he 
was  set  down  to  a  sumptuous  banquet, 
but  overhead  was  a  sword  suspended  by 
a  hair.  Damocles  was  afraid  to  stir, 
and  the  banquet  was  a  tantalising  tor- 
ment to  him.     {Cicero.) 

"These  fears  hang  like  Damocles'  sword  over 
every  feast,  and  make  enjuynient  impossible." 
—  Chambers's  Cyclopcedia. 

Da'mon  and  Musido'ra.  Two  lovers 
in  Thomson's  Summer.  One  day  Damon 
caught  Musidora  bathing,  and  his  deli- 
cacy so  won  iipon  her  that  she  promised 
to  be  his  bride. 

Da'mon  and  Pyth'ias.  Inseparable 
friends.  They  were  two  Syracu'sian 
youths.  Damon,  being  condemned  to 
death  by  Dionysius  the  tyrant,  obtained 
leave  to  go  home  to  arrange  his  affairs 


Damper 


328 


Dance 


if  Pytliias  became  his  security.  Damon 
Ijciiii^  delayed,  Pythias  was  led  to  exe- 
cution, l;)ut  his  frieud  arrived  in  time  to 
save  liim.  Diouysius  was  so  struck  with 
this  honourable  friendship  that  he  par- 
doned both  of  them. 

Samper  (A).  A  snap  before  dinner, 
which  damps  or  takes  oif  the  edge  of 
a])pctite.  "That's  a  damper"  also 
niCMus  a  wet-blanket  influence,  a  rebuff 
which  damjis  or  cools  one's  courage. 

Also  a  large  thin  cake  of  tlour  and 
water  baked  in  hot  ashes.  The  mute 
of  a  stringed  instrument  to  deaden  the 
sound  is  also  called  a  "  damper." 

Damsel.     {Sec  Domisellus.) 

Dam'son.  A  corruption  of  Damas- 
cene, a  fruit  from  Damascus. 

Dam  y an  (3  syl . ) .  A  "  silke  squy er, " 
whoso  illicit  love  was  accepted  by  May, 
the  youthful  bride  of  January,  a  Lom- 
bard knight,  sixty  years  old.  {Otaucer : 
The  Marchaitndcs  Talc.) 

Dan.  A  title  of  honoiir,  common  with 
tbe  old  poets,  as  Dan  Pha-bus,  Dan 
Cupid,  Dan  Neptune,  Dan  Chaucer,  etc. 
(SiJauish,  do)).) 

"  D:in  Cliaurei",  well  of  Eimlisb  iiiiilcflleil, 
On  Kanie's eternal  lie.ulroll  worthy  to  lie  flled." 
/^jiaincr :  F(urie  Qiuene,  Ijook  iv.  canto  ii.  .'i.'. 

F)-oi)i  Ba)i  to  Bcer'sheha.  From  one 
end  of  the  kingdom  to  the  other;  all 
over  the  world ;  eveiywhere.  The 
jihrase  is  Scriptural,  Dan  being  the  most 
northern  and  Becrsheba  the  most  south- 
ern city  of  the  Holy  Land.  We  have  a 
similar  expression,  "From  John  o' 
Groats  to  the  Land's  End." 

Dan  Tucker.  Out  d'  dc  u-ay,  old 
Dim  Tucker.  The  first  Governor  of  Ber- 
mu'da  was  Mr.  Moore,  who  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Captain  Daniel  Tucker.  Tliese 
islands  were  colonised  from  Virginia. 

Dan'ace  (3  syl.).  A  coin  placed  by 
the  Greeks  in  the  mouth  of  the  dead  to 
pay  their  passage  across  the  ferry  of  the 
Lower  World. 

Dan'ac.  An  Argive  princess  whom 
Zeus  (Jupiter)  seduced  inider  the  form 
of  a  shower  of  gold,  while  she  was  con- 
fined in  an  inaccessible  tower.  She  thus 
became  the  mother  of  Perseus  (2  syl.). 

Dana'ides  (4  syl.).  Daughters  of 
Dan'aos  (King  of  Argos).  They  were 
lifty  in  number,  and  married  the  fifty 
sous  of  iEgyptos.  They  all  Init  one 
raiu'dered  their  husbands  on  their  wed- 
ding-night, and  were  punished  in  the 
infernal    regions    by    having    to    di'aw 


water  everlastiuglj'  in  sieves  from  a  deep 
well. 

This  is  an  allegory.  The  followers  of 
Dan'aos  taught  the  Argivcs  to  dig  wells, 
and  inigate  their  fields  in  the  Egj'ptian 
manner.  As  the  soil  of  Argos  was  very 
drj'  and  porous,  it  was  like  a  sieve. 

The  names  of  the  fifty  Danaides  and 
theii'  respective  husbands  are  as  follows : 

Aetiea     ..  ..    wife  of  Per'iplias. 

Adiauta..  ..  „  Dalpli'roii. 

Adyta     ..  ..  „  Jlenal'ccj. 

Afja've    ■•  ..  „  Lycos. 

Aniynion'c  •■  „  Kncel'ados. 

Anaxil/ia  ..  „  ArclieUi'os. 

Aiitod'ica  ..  „  Clytos. 

Aster'ia..  ..  „  ClKptos. 

Autlio'lea  ..  „  Cisseiis. 

Autoni'ata  ■•  ,,  Arcliile'los. 

Auton'i.e  ••  „  Kiiryl'oclios. 

Bry'cea..  ••  „  Chlhon'ios. 

Callid'ice  ••  ,,  I'andi'oii. 

t'ele'iio   ...  „  Hyxo'hios. 

Cbrysiii'i'c  ■•  ,,  ('lirysiii'iios. 

Clirysotli'eiiii.s  „  As'leris. 

Cleodo'ra  ..  „  Mxos. 

Cleoiial'ra  ..  .,  A^e'nor. 

Cli'o        ..  ..  „  .AstiT'ias. 

Critome'dia  ..  „  Aiiliiiapli'iiS. 

Uanio'ne  ••  „  .Vniyii'lor. 

Dioxip'iie  ..  „  .KKyptos. 

Kloctra...  ..  „  reri.s'theiies. 

Kr'ato     ..  ..  „  Itici'niios. 

Kuplie'iio  ..  „  IIyper'l)ios, 

Kuryd'ice  ..  ,.  Drya;?. 

Evip'pC  ..  •■  „  lllllMdS. 

(ilauca    ..        ..  „  Alcis. 

(ilancip'pa       ..  ,,  i'ol'.inion. 

tJorwa Hyppotli'cOi. 

(iorK'oplion     ..  „  I'ro'tens. 

)Iel'(it:i  ..         ..  ,.  Casso.s. 

Hippodaiiii'a   .-  „  Isler. 

llippod'ica     _. .  ,,  Idra.s. 

llippoTiiPdu'to  „  Alcnic'non. 

Hyperip'pa      ..  „  Ilippocoris'lSi. 

Hypernines'tra  „  Lyiirens.* 

Ipliiiiiedu'.sa    ••  ,,  Kiidio'uor. 

Wiieslva  ..  „  Kni'us. 

Ocyp'etc  ..  „  I,ampos. 

Oi'iiie      ..        ■  „  Arbt^'los. 

Pilaris    ..        ..  „  Euryd'amas. 

PilarVa  ..        ..  „  Iiinion. 

Pire'iie   ..        -.  „  AL'aptole'nu^s. 

Podar'ca  ••  „  (E'neus. 

lUioda    ..        .-  „  Hippol'ytos. 

Ulio'dia..        ••  „  (.'lialce'doii. 

Stlicn'ola  ..  „  Stlieu'elos. 

SiyKiia    ..        .■  „  Polyc'tor. 

Tliea'no..        ..  „  Pliantlic.5. 

V  Lyncetis  (2  syl.),  the  one  saved  by 
his  wife,  is  marked  with  an  asterisk  (*). 

Dan'aos.  According  to  the  Ito)»a»  de 
Rose,  Denmark  means  the  country  of 
Dan'aos,  who  settled  here  with  a  colony 
after  the  siege  of  Troy,  as  Brutus  is  said 
by  the  same  sort  of  name-legend  to 
have  settled  in  Britain.  Sa.xo-Gernian'- 
icus,  with  equal  absurdity,  makes  Dan, 
the  son  of  Humble,  the  first  king,  to 
account  for  the  name  of  the  country. 

Danaw.    The  Danube  (German). 

"To  pass 
Klione  or  tlie  Panaw." 

Milton  :  Puradiac  Lost,  book  i.  XiX. 

Dance.  The  Spanish  danza  was  a 
grave  and  stately  court  dance.  Those 
of  the  seventeenth  century  wei'e  called 


Dance 


329 


Dancing-water 


tlie  Turdlon,  Tahu'na,  Madaiixc  Or/</ni>', 
I'icilcli/iha'o,  El  I'ci/  Doit  A/oiizo,  and  isY 
Vabiilic'ro.  Most  of  the  names  are  taken 
from  the  hallad-music  to  whicli  they 
■\7ere  danced. 

The  light  dances  were  called  TxiyVo 
('/•'•■)• 

Dance  {Vijrrlnc).     (.SVr  Pyerhic). 

<SV.  J'ttiis's  JJhihc.     ('Vc'6' Vitus). 

Dance  of  Death.  A  series  of  wood- 
cuts, said  to  bo  hy  Hans  Holbein  (15^8), 
re]irosentint,^  Death  dancing  after  all 
sorts  of  persons,  beginning  with  Adam 
and  Eve.  He  is  beside  the  judge  on  liis 
bench,  the  priest  in  the  pulpit,  the  nuu 
in  her  cell,  the  doctor  in  his  study,  the 
bride  and  the  beggar,  the  king  and  tlie 
infant ;  but  is  "  swallowed  up  at 
last." 

This  is  often  called  the  Banco  Maca'bre, 
from  a  German  who  wrote  verses  on  the 
sul)ject. 

On  the  north  side  of  Old  St.  Paul's 
was  a  cloister,  on  the  walls  of  whicli  was 
painted,  at  the  cost  of  John  Carpenter, 
town  clerk  of  London  (ITith  century),  a 
"Dance  of  Death,"  or  "Death  leading 
all  the  estate,  with  speeclies  of  Death, 
and  answers,  by  John  Lydgate"  {Sto/c). 
The  Death -Dance  in  the  Dominican 
Convent  of  Basle  was  retouched  by 
Holbein. 

H    PlIEASES. 

I^ll  lead  i/on  a  prctfif  d(t»ce,  i.e.  I'll 
bother  or  put  you  to  trouble.  The 
French  say,  Bonner  Ic  hal  a  qnelqn'iiii.. 
Tlie  reference  is  to  the  complicated 
dances  of  former  times,  when  all  followed 
the  leader. 

'To  dance  attendance.  To  wait  obse- 
quiously, to  be  at  the  beck  and  call  of 
another.  The  allusion  is  to  the  ancient 
custom  of  weddings,  where  the  bride  on 
the  Avedding-night  had  to  dance  with 
every  guest,  and  play  the  amiable, 
though  greatly  annoyed. 

"  Then  must  llie  poore  hr.vde  kepe  foote  with  a 
dauncer,  and  refuse  none,  how  scabbed,  fcjiile, 
dioncken,  rude,  and  shameless  soevei'  ho  lie."— 
Christen:  State  of  ilatriitiony,  1.543. 

"T  had  thnncht 
Tho.v  had  parted  sn  much  honosiy  anions'  ilicm 
(At.  least,  i-'ood  manners'!  as  not  thus  to  sullrr 
A  man  of  his  place,  and  so  near  our  f.-ivnur, 
To  dance  attonilance  on    their   lordships'  plea- 
sures." tilialcespcare :  Ilcvnj  VJ1[.,WJ. 

To  dance  upon  nothxncj.    To  be  hanged. 
Dances  {Xational  Bance.s)  : 

TS'ibcuiian  :  the  redo'ira. 

Kii'-'ljsh:  llie /(0)»;)/;/c  and  lavccrx. 

French  :  tlie  ciiiificiliinse {country  dance),  colilJon, 

anil  qiiaitrillr. 
fiermim  :  the  f;o//<i;'firfe  and  waltz. 
Irish :  tlie  jifl. 
Neapolitan  :  the  taran'tella. 
Polish  :  the  mazurka  and  krakovieck. 


Russian  :  the  cnssac. 

Scotch  :  Ihe  reel. 

Spanish  :  i\\e  bolc'ro-Awlfandavgo.^ 

V  When  Handel  was  asked  to  point 
out  the  peculiar  taste  of  the  different 
nations  of  Europe  in  dancing,  he  ascribed 
the  niinnet  to  the  French,  the  mr'aband 
to  the  Sj)aniard,  the  arietta  to  the  Italian, 
and  the  hornpipe  and  the  morris-dance 
to  the  English. 

Dances  [Religious  Banccs) : 

Astrotinmical  dmices,  invented  by  the  Egyptians, 
dcsiu'ned  (like  our  orreries)  to  represent  the 
movements  of  the  heavenly  bodies. 

Tlie  Ilacihie  iliiiircs  were  of  three  sorts:  jjravs 
(like  oui-  minuet),  jray  (like  luir  ftavotte)',  and 
mixed  (like  our  minuet  and  u-avotte  combined). 

Tlie  il,nir,  (7/<i.»yi<7/c,  ill',  culeil  by  Pan,  iiuick  and 
Incly.  The  (lancers  (in  1  he  .i|eii  airj  wore 
wrcaihs.irnakan.l  ■-'aii:iniN  of  tluwcrs. 

Cliihlri  ii\-<  (liiiiei!<.iti  l.a<  c.lcUKUiia,  in  honour  of 
Diaii:i.  The  chihlicii  were  nude;  and  their 
luoMuiciii  ^  wrvi-  L-i:i\  e,  modest,  and  fc'raceful. 

Cnnihiiiitie  ,l,n„;>-.  in  honour  of  Bacclius, 
acc..iii|ciiiic(l  with  linibvcN,  nfcs,  ilnles.  and  a 
:.1m.  r^l   hv    th.-  chl-hlll-  of 


Fill. 


■ils  .-11 

,il  ,1,1 


,1   SI. 


Ill  A  I  hcli>.  .-Im»  ,  si.hiiiii  dances 
ill  which  the  priests  look  part.  The  pcrforniers 
w.irc  Ioiil;  white  robes,  aud  carried  cypress 
slips  in  their  hands. 

IIiini,iit-,il  ihiiiris  were  lively  and  joyous.  The 
(l.-iiiici-s  belli'-,'  c'l-owiicil  with  llowers. 

(*/  '/"  r.iiiiitliiv,  iiiM'iiicd  \<\  I'irithbiis.  These 
were  cxhibiicd  aflcr  some  f:iniuiis  vic-torv,  and 
were  ilesiu'iieil  to  imitate  the  combats  of  the 
Ceiiiiniis  ;iiid   l/iprilia'.      These    dances   were 

he]  h  illllieilli   iillil  (l;in;,'eroUS. 

j;ei/-,/r/,(  ,(e/e  <s  at  Konie.  At  riaybrealc  lads  and 
l.i^ses  went  out  to  L-:itlu'r  "M;iv"  and  other 
llowers   for  I  lieiii-el\  e-  .-nid  their  ehlers  ;  and 

ll|e,|.-,y  was  spell  I    111  il.'inee,;,  11(1   leslivilies. 

llililiiru  iliiiiees.  ■llie(.h!esl  efall  diinees,  exe- 
cuted' with  swords,  laveliiis,  and  bucklers. 
Siiid  to  be  invented  l.y  Jliner\a  to  celebrate  the 
victory  of  the  yodsover  the  Titans. 

Kiijitial  (tancef:.  A  Koman  pantomimic  perfor- 
mance resembling  the  dances  of  our  harleiiuin 
and  columbine. 

Stiered  dances  (among  the  JeAvs).  David  danced 
in  certain  religious  prncessions  oj  Sam.  vi.  14). 
The  people  sang  and  danced  bel'erc  the  golden 

calf(E.xod.  xxxii.  ID).  Andinthcl k  of  Psalms 

(cl.  4)  we  read,  "Let  [the  people]  praise  [the 
Lord]  with  timbrel  and  dance.  Miriam,  the 
sister  of  Jloses,  after  the  passage  of  the  lied 
Sea,  was  followed  by  all  the  women  with 
timbrels  and  dances  (Exod.  xv.  iO). 

.S'(i//c  dances,  instituted  by  Numa  Pompilius  in 
honour  of  Mars.  They  were  executed  liy  twelve 
priests  selected  from  the  highest  of  the 
nobility,  and  the  dances  were  performed  in  the 
temple  while  sacrifices  were  being  made  and 
hymns  sung  to  the  god. 

*."  The  Dancing  Dervishes  celebrate 
their  religious  rites  with  dances,  which 
consist  chiefly  of  spinning  round  and 
round  a  little  allotted  space,  not  in 
couples,  but  each  one  alone. 

In  ancient  times  the  Gauls,  the 
Germans,  the  Spaniards,  and  the  English 
too  liad  their  sacred  dances.  In  fact, 
in  all  religious  ceremonies  the  dtmce 
was  an  essential  part  of  divine  worship. 
In  India  dancing  is  a  part  of  religious 
worship  in  which  the  priests  join. 

See  Danse. 

Dancing-water  {TIic),  which  beau- 
tifies ladies,  makes  them  young  again, 


Dandelion 


330 


Dante 


and  enriches  tlicra.  It  fell  in  a  cascade 
in  the  Burning  Forest,  and  could  only 
be  reached  by  an  underground  passage. 
Prince  Chery  fetched  a  bottle  of  this 
water  for  his  beloved  Fair-star,  but  was 
aided  by  a  dove.  {Fairy  I'ales,  by  the 
Comtesse  d'Aulnoy.)  {See  Yellow 
Water.) 

Dandeli'on.  A  flower.  The  word  is 
a  corrui)tiou  of  tlie  French  dctit  dc  Vion 
(lion's  tooth).  Also  called  Lcoii'todvn 
(lion-tooth,  Greek),  from  a  supposed 
resemblance  between  its  leaves  and  the 
teeth  of  lions. 

Dander.  Is  your  dander  iip  or  riz  ? 
Is  your  angry  iiassiou  up  ?  This  is 
generally  considered  to  be  an  American- 
ism ;  but  Halliwcll  gives,  in  his  Archaic 
Dictionary,  both  dander  (anger)  and 
dandy  (distracted),  the  former  common 
to  several  counties,  and  the  latter  pecu- 
liar to  Somersetshire. 

Dandie  Dinmont.  A  jovial,  true- 
hearted  store-farmer,  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  Gay  Jlanneriny.  Also  a  hardy 
hairy  short- legged  ten-ier. 

"  Frcnii  tills  (log  (Icsoemleil  Davidson  of  Ilyml- 
Iee"s  hiTcd,  llie  oritrimil  Daudie-Diumoiit."— 2'. 
Urtiiiii :  Oiii-JJoi/s,  ji.  101. 

Dandin  (French).  A  ninny,  a  snob. 
From  Moliere's  comedy  of  George  JJan- 
din.     {Sec  Gandin.) 

Dandin  (George).  A  French  cit,  who 
marries  a  sprig  of  nobility,  and  lives 
with  his  wife's  parents.  Madame  ajjpeals 
on  all  occasions  to  her  father  and  mother, 
who,  of  course,  take  her  jjart  against  her 
husband.  Poor  George  is  in  a  sad  jilight, 
and  is  for  ever  lamenting  his  fate  with 
the  expression,  Voas  Varez  rouhi,  George 
I)andin  ('Tis  j^our  own  fault,  George 
Dandin).  Geoi'ge  Dandin  stands  for 
anyone  who  marries  above  his  sphere, 
and  is  pecked  by  his  wife  and  mother- 
in-law.  The  word  means  "  a  ninny." 
{Molierc'' s  comedy  so  called.) 

Ferri)i  Dandin.  A  sort  of  Lynch 
judge  in  Rabelais,  who  seated  himself 
on  the  trimk  of  the  first  tree  he  came  to, 
and  there  decided  the  causes  submitted 
to  him. 

Dan'diprat  or  Dandcpraf,  according 
to  Camden,  is  a  small  coin  issued  in  the 
reigu  of  Henry  VII.  Applied  to  a  little 
fellow,  it  is  about  equal  to  our  modern 
expression,  alittle ' '  twopenny-ha'penny' ' 
fellow. 

Dando  {A).  One  who  frequents 
liotels,    eating-houses,    and    other  such 


places,  satisfies  his  appetite,  and  decamps 
without  payment. 

Dandy.  A  coxcomb ;  a  fop.  The 
feminine  of  "dandy  "  is  either  dandilly 
or  dandizett.  Egau  says  the  word  was 
first  used  hi  LSi;j,  but  examples  of  the 
word  occur  at  least  one  hundred  years 
before  that  date.  (French,  dandin,  a 
ninny,  a  vain,  conceited  fellow.) 

Dandy-horse.    {Sec  VELOcirEDE.) 

Dandyism.  The  manners,  etc.,  of  a 
dandy  ;  like  a  dandy. 

Dane's  Skin  {A).  A  freckled  skin. 
Red  hair  and  a  freckled  skin  are  the 
traditional  characteristics  of  Danish 
blood. 

Dangle.  A  theatrical  amateur  in 
Sheridan's  Critic.  It  was  designed  for 
Thomas  Vaughan,  a  playwright. 

Daniel  Lambert  weighed  739  lbs. 
In  1811  eleven  young  men  stood  within 
liis  waistcoat  buttoned.     (1770-1809.) 

Danism.  Lending  money  on  usurj'. 
(Greek,  dancisma,  a  loan.) 

Dan'nebrog  or  Danebrog.    The  old 

flag  of  Denmark.  'I'lic  tradition  is  that 
Waldemar  II.  of  Dcninaik  saw  in  the 
heavens  a  fiery  cross  which  betokened 
his  victory  over  the  Estho'nians  (1219). 
This  story  is  very  similar  to  that  of 
Constantine  {(J.v.),  and  of  St.  Andrew's 
Cross.     {See  Andeew.  -SY.) 

The  order  of  Danebrog.  The  second  of 
the  Danish  orders.  Brog means  "cloth" 
or  banner. 

Dan'nocks.  Hedging  -  gloves.  A 
corruption  of  Touruay,  where  they  were 
originally  manirfactured. 

Danse.  La  dansc  commence  la-has, 
fighting  has  broken  out  yonder. 

"  Mnn  t'Hiionil,  tlieve  is  great  news :  La  diDinn 
commence  la-ban.  '—Ouida :  Under  Two  Fluas,  cliaii. 
xxv. 

A  la  danse.    On  the  march. 

"  Tlie  regiment  was  ordorefl  out  A  la  dnvse 
There  was'  fresh  war  in  the  interior."— OHi(;rt; 
Under  Tim  Flaijs,  chap.  xxv.       (.See  Daxce.) 

Dans'ker.  A  Dane.  Denmark  used 
to  be  called  Danske.  Hence  Polo'uius 
says  to  Reynaldo,  "Inquire  me  first 
what  Danskers  are  in  Paris."  {Hamlet, 
ii.  1.) 

Dante  and  Beatrice — i.e.  Beati-ice 
Portina'ri,  who  was  only  eight  years  old 
when  the  poet  first  saw  her.  His  abiding 
love  for  her  was  chaste  as  snow  and 
laire  as  it  Avas  tender.     Beatrice  niarried 


Dantesque 


331 


Darius 


a  nobleman  named  Simo'ne  de  Bardi, 
and  died  young,  in  1290.  Dante  married 
Gemma,  of  the  powerful  house  of  Do- 
ua'ti.  In  the  iJiri'ita  Vommvdia  the 
l^oot  is  conducted  first  by  Virgil  (wlio 
represents  luinian  reason)  tlirougli  hell 
and  jmrgatory  ;  then  by  the  spirit  of 
Be'atri'ce  (who  represents  the  wisdom 
of  faith)  ;  and  finally  by  St.  Bernard 
(who  represents  the  wisdom  from  on 
high). 

Dantes'que  (2  syl.).  Daute-like — 
that  is,  a  nunute  life-like  representa- 
tion of  the  infernal  horrors,  whether 
by  words,  as  in  the  poet,  or  in  visible 
fomi,  as  in  Dore's  illustrations  of  the 
Inferno. 

Daphna'ida.  An  elegy  on  Douglas 
Howard,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Lord 
Howard.     {'Spenser,  1591.) 

Daphne.  Daughter  of  a  river-god, 
loved  by  Apollo.  She  fled  from  the 
amorous  god,  and  escaped  by  being 
changed  into  a  laurel,  thenceforth  the 
favourite  tree  of  the  suu-god. 

"Nay,  lady,  sit.    If  1  but  wave  this  waiui, 
Your  nerves  are  all  cUain'd  up  in  alaliaster. 
And  you  a  statue,  or,  as  Daiiliut"  was, 
Rciut-liuuiid,  that  tied  Apollo." 

Milton :  Comns,  678-081. 

Daph'nis.  A  Sicilian  shepherd  who 
invented  pastoral  poetry. 

Dapli'nis.  The  lover  of  Chloe  in  the 
exquisite  Greek  pastoral  romance  of 
Lougos,  in  the  fourth  century.  Daphnis 
was  the  model  of  Allan  Ramsay's  Gentle 
Shepherd,  and  the  tale  is  the  basis  of 
St.  Pierre's  Paul  and  Virejinia. 

Dapper.  A  little,  nimble,  spruce 
young  clerk  in  Ben  Jonson's  Alchemint. 

Dap'ple.  The  name  of  Sancho  Panza's 
donkey  in  Cervantes'  romance  of  Ihn 
Quixote.  Bailey  derives  dapple  from 
the  Teutonic  dapper  (streaked  or  spotted 
like  a  pippin).  A  dapple-grey  horse 
is  one  of  a  light  grey  shaded  with  a 
deeper  hue  ;  a  elapple-hay  is  a  light  bay 
spotted  with  bay  of  a  deeper  colour. 
(Icelandic,  depill,  a  spot.) 

Dar'bies  (2  syl.).  Handcuffs.  This 
is  derived  from  "  Darby  and  Joan,"  be- 
cause originally  two  prisoners  were 
linked  together  as  Darby  and  Joan. 

"  Hark  ye !  Jem  Clink  will  fetch  you  the  dar- 
bies."—Sir  W.^cott:  I'evcrilof  the  Peak. 

V  Johnny  Darbies,  policemen,  is  a 
perversion  of  the  French  gensdarmes, 
in  conjunction  with  the  above. 

Darby  and  Joan.  A  loving,  old- 
fashioned,  virtuous  couple.  The  names 
belong  to  a  ballad  written  by  Henry 


Woodfall,  and  the  characters  are  those 
of  John  Darby,  of  Bartholomew  Close, 
who  died  1730,  and  his  wife,  "As  chaste 
as  a  picture  cut  in  alabaster.  You 
might  sooner  move  a  Scythian  rock 
than  shoot  fire  into  her  bosom."  Wood- 
fall  served  his  apprenticeship  to  John 
Darby. 

"  Perhaps  some  day  or  other  we  may  be  Darby 
and  Joan." — Lord  Li/tton. 

V  The  French  equivalent  is  Cent  St. 
Jioch  et  t>o/i  ehien. 

Dar'byites  (3  syl.).  The  Plymouth 
Brethren  are  so  called  on  the  (Continent 
from  Mr.  Darby,  a  barrister,  who  alian- 
doned  himself  to  the  work,  and  was  for 
years  the  "  organ  "  of  the  sect. 

Darics  (or)  State'rcs  Dari'ei.  Cele- 
brated Persian  coins.  So  called  from 
Daii'us.  They  bear  on  one  side  the  head 
of  the  king,  and  on  the  other  a  chariot 
drawn  by  mules.  Their  value  is  about 
twenty-tivc  shillings. 

Dariolet,  Dariolette  (French).  An 
intriguant,  a  contidaut,  a  go-between,  a 
pander.  Originally  a  dariole  meant  a 
little  sweetmeat  or  cake  rayed  with  little 
bands  of  paste. 

"Dariolette,  employe  comme  nn  des  nombreiix 
synonyiiios  lie  »>»/;;■(»(',  a  en  d'aliord  la  mission 
particulirif  de  dcsiLTiicr  les  suivantes  de  mnian." 
~i;,ilun<l  ill'  Villiirrriui.r. 

"Millie.  Vitry,  cniiiidcnte  de  Mdlle.  de  Guise, 
etait  la  dariolette."— Trtf/cmnHt,  vol.  i.  p.  1l'5. 

Dari'us.  A  classic  way  of  spelling 
Darauesh  (king),  a  Persian  title  of 
royalty.  Gushtasj)  or  Ivislitasp  assumed 
the  title  of  darawesh  on  ascending  the 
throne,  and  is  the  person  generally 
called  Darius  the  Great. 

JJari/is.  Seven  princes  of  Persia 
agreed  that  he  should  be  king  whose 
horse  neighed  first ;  as  the  horse  of 
Darius  was  the  first  to  neigh,  Darius 
was  proclaimed  king. 

Dari'us,  conquered  by  Alexander,  was 
Dara,  surnamcd  kuehek  (the  younger). 
When  Alexander  succeeded  to  the  throne, 
Dara  sent  to  him  for  the  tribute  of  golden 
eggs,  but  the  Macedonian  rettimed  for 
answer,  "The  bird  which  laid  them  is 
flown  to  the  other  world,  where  Dara 
must  seek  them."  The  Persian  king 
then  sent  him  a  bat  and  ball,  in  ridicide 
of  his  yotith ;  but  Alexander  told  the 
messengers,  with  the  bat  he  would  beat 
the  ball  of  power  from  their  master's 
hand.  Lastly,  Dara  sent  him  a  bitter 
melon,  as  emblem  of  the  grief  in  store 
for  him  ;  but  the  Macedoniati  declared 
that  he  would  make  the  Shah  eat  his 
own  fruit. 


Dark 


332 


Davenport 


Dark.    To  keep  dark.   To  lie  perdu  ;  to 

lurk  in  concealment.    (Ang.-Sax.  deorc.) 

"  We'll  set  away  to  smiie  of  tbe  far-out  stations 

....  Avlieio  we  could  keep  in  tbe  ilaik."— i'ok/re- 

u-ood:  Uiibbcry  Under  Arms,  x\i. 

Keep  it  in  the  dark.  Keep  it  a  dead 
secret ;  don't  enliglitcn  anyone  about 
the  matter. 

Dark  Ages.  The  era  between  the 
di  :it!i  of  Cliarlemague  and  the  clo.se  of 
thi;  ('arloviogiau  dynasty. 

Dark  Continent  {T/ie).  Africa,  the 
land  of  the  dark  race  or  darkies. 

Dark  Horse  (A).  A  racing  tci-m  for 
a  liurse  of  good  jiretensious,  but  of  which 
nothing  is  jiositively  knoAvu  by  the  ge- 
neral public.  Its  merits  arc  kei)t  dark 
from  betters  and  book-makei's. 

"At  last  a  Lilieral  candidate  lias  entered  the 
field  at  Croydon.  Tlic  Conservatives  liave  kept 
tlieir  candidate  back,  as  a  dark  liorso.'— A'cics- 
I'.ilHr  pdrniiriiph,  January,  l.ssCi. 

Darkest  Hour  is  that  before  the 
Dawn  {TIk).  When  Fortuue's  wheel 
is  lowest,  it  must  turn  up  again.  Wlicn 
tilings  liave  come  to  their  worst,  they 
must    nu'ud.       In  Latin,    I'vut    nuhdu, 

I'hwbus. 

Darky.     A  n(>gro. 

Darley  Arabians.  A  breed  of 
English  racers,  from  au  Arab  sttillion 
introduced  by  Mr.  Darley.  This  stallion 
was  the  sire  of  the  Filling  CItilder.s,  and 
great-grandsire  of  Eciipsc. 

Daron,  Daronne  (French).  The 
sobriquet  given,  at  the  present  day,  by 
Avorkmen  to  shopkeepers  and  cobblers. 

'■  11  i'tdit  niaitrede  tout,  jup.ju'a  manicr  Tarf-'cnt 
dc  la  daroiiiic."— //isdifci;  i(t  Giiilhmme,  cochcr. 

Daronne.  The  confidant  of  Elisenne, 
mother  of  Amadis,  and  wife  of  Perion 
des  Gaules.     {Amadis  de  Gaulc.) 

Dart.     {I^ec  Abaris.) 

Darwinian  Th  eory.  Charles 
Darwin,  grandson  of  the  poet,  published 
in  1859  a  work  entitled  Orujin  of  tSpccict^, 
to  prove  that  the  numerous  species  now 
existing  on  the  earth  sprang  originally 
from  one  or  at  most  a  few  primal  forms  ; 
and  that  the  present  diversity  is  due  to 
special  develojjment  and  natural  selec- 
tion. Those  plants  and  creatures  which 
are  best  suited  to  the  conditions  of  their 
existence  survive  and  become  fruitful ; 
certain  organs  called  into  play  by  pe- 
culiar conditions  of  life  grow  with  their 
growth,  and  strengthen  with  their 
strength,  till  they  become  so  much  a  part 
and  parcel  of  their  frames  as  to  be 
transmitted  to  their  offspring.  The 
conditions  of    life  being  very  diverse, 


cause  a  great  diversity  of  organic  de- 
velopment, and,  of  course,  every  such 
diversity  which  has  become  radical  is 
the  parent  of  a  new  species.  {See  Evo- 
lution.) 

Dash,  iu  printer's  cojiy.  One  dash 
under  a  word  in  ^IS.  mt  tins  tliat  the  part 
so  daslied  must  lie  printed  in  ittilics;  two 
dashes  metius  small  capitals ;  three 
diishes,  large  capitals. 

(■Ill  a  dash.      (See  CuT.) 

Dash  my  Wig.   Dash  my  Buttons. 

Dasli  is  a  ciiphcinism  for  a  coinmou 
oath  ;  and  wig,  buttons,  etc.,  are  relics 
of  a  common  fashion  at  one  time  adopted 
iu  comedies  and  by  "mashers"  of 
swearing  without  using  iirofane  lan- 
guage. 

Date.  \ot  quite  up  to  date.  Said  of 
books  somewhat  in  arrears  of  the  most 
recent  information. 

Daughter.  Greek,  thnr/ater,  con- 
tracted into  thiKj'ter  ;  Dutch,  dotjter  ; 
(iermau,  tochter  ;  Persian,  doe)itar ; 
.S.'inskrit,  diihitcr ;  Stixon,  doliter ;  etc. 

Daughter  of  Pcneus  ('/'/").  The 
biiy-trce  is  so  ctillod  because  it  grows  iu 
greatest  iicrfection  on  tlie  banks  of  the 
river  Pcneus  (3  syl.). 

Daughter  of  the  Horseleech.  One 

very  exigetmt ;  one  for  ever  sponging  ou 
another.     (Pi'ov.  xxx.  15.) 

"Such  and  many  such  like  were  the  morning 
attendants  of  the  Duke  of  IJuckiiiffliani  —  ail 
f-'cmiine  descendants  of  tliedaufrhier  of  the  liorse- 
leecli,  whose  cry  is  '(4ive,  give.' "— .Vir  W.ticutt: 
J'ciuril  ii/the  I'eak,  chap,  xxviii. 

Dau'phin.  The  heir  of  the  French 
crown  under  the  Valois  and  Bourbon 
dynasties.  Guy  VIII. ,  Count  of  Vicnne, 
was  the  first  so  styled,  because  lie  wore 
a  dolph'm  as  his  cognisance.  The  title 
descended  in  the  family  till  1349,  wlien 
Humbert  II.,  dc  la  tuiirdc  I'ina,  sold  his 
seigneurie,  called  the  Dauj)hine,  to  King 
Philippe  VI.  (de  Valois),  on  condition 
that  the  heir  of  France  assumed  the 
title  of  Ic  dauphin.  The  first  French 
prince  so  called  was  Jean,  who  suc- 
ceeded Philii^pe ;  and  the  hist  was  tlie 
Due  d'Angouleme,  son  of  Charles  IX., 
who  renounced  the  title  in  1830. 

Grand  Dauphin.  Louis,  DucdeBour- 
gogne,  eldest  .son  of  Louis  XIV.,  for 
whose  use  was  published  the  Latin 
classics  entitled  Ad  Umiu  Delphi' ni. 
(1661-1711.) 

Second  ov  Little  Dauphin.  Louis,  son 
of  the  Grand  Dauphin.     (1682-1712.) 

Davenport.  A  kind  of  small  writing- 
desk  with  drawers  each  side,  named 
after  the  maker. 


[Davenport 


333 


Day- 


Davenport  {The  Brothers),  from 
America.  Two  imjiostors,  vvlio  professed 
that  spirits  would  imtie  them  wlieu 
bound  with  cords,  and  even  that  sj)irits 
l)lu_ved  all  sorts  of  iiistrumeuts  ill  a 
dark  cabinet.  The  imposition  was  ex- 
Xjosed  in  186i5. 

David,  in  Drydeu's  satire  called 
Absdioin  and  Achitophel,  represents 
Charles  II.  ;  Absalom,  his  beautiful  but 
rebellious  son,  represents  the  Duke  of 
Monmouth;  Achitophel,  the  traitorous 
counsellor,  is  the  Earl  of  Shaftesbury ; 
Barzillai,  the  faithful  old  man  who  pro- 
vided the  king  sustenance,  was  the  Duke 
of  Ormond ;  Hushai,  who  defeated  tlie 
counsel  of  Achitophel,  was  Hyde,  Duke 
of  Rochester ;  Zadok  the  priest  was 
Sancroft,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury ; 
Shimei',  who  cursed  the  king  in  his 
flight,  was  Bethel,  the  lord  mayor ;  etc. 
etc.   (2  Sam.  xvii.-xix.) 

"  Once  more  tlie  g"i'like  David  was  restored, 
Aud  willing  nations  knew  tbeii-  lawful  liu'ii." 
Urijdai :  Absalom  and  Achitophel,  part  i. 

Darid  (Sf.)  or  Dewid,  was  son  of 
Xantus,  Prince  of  Cereticu,  now  called 
Cardiganshire  ;  he  was  brouglit  up  a 
priest,  became  an  ascetic  in  the  Isle  of 
Wight,  preached  to  the  Britons,  con- 
futed Pela'gius,  and  was  preferred  to  the 
see  of  Caerleon,  since  called  St.  David's, 
He  died  544.     (See  Taffy.) 

-S7.  Darid's  (Wales)  was  originally 
called  Mene'via  {i.e.  main  aw,  narrow 
water  or  frith).  Here  St.  David  received 
his  early  education,  and  when  Dyvrig, 
Archbishop  of  Caerleon,  resigned  to  him 
his  see,  St.  David  removed  the  archi- 
episcopal  residence  to  Mene'via,  which 
was  henceforth  called  by  his  name.  • 

David  and  Jonathan.  Inseparable 
friends.  Similar  examples  of  friendship 
were  Pyladesand  Orestes  {q.v.)  ;  Damon 
aud  Pythias  (q.v.)  ;  etc. 

"  r  am  distressed  for  tliee,  my  brother  .lonatlian. 
Very  pleasant  bast  thou  been  to  me.  Tliy  love  to 
me  was  wonderful,  passing  the  love  of  women." 
—1'  Sam.  i,  "JO. 

Davide'is.  An  ei^ic  i^oem  in  four 
books,  describing  the  troubles  of  King 
David.     {Abraham  Cuiiieij  [1618-1667].) 

TliL-re  is  another  sacred  poem  so  called,  by 
Thomas  Elwood  (.171:;). 

Da'vus.  Darns  stiw,  von  (Edipiis  (I 
am  a  plain,  simple  fellow,  and  no  solver 
of  riddles,  like  (Edipus).  The  words  are 
from  Terence's  Au'dria,  i.  2,  23. 

Non  te  credas  Darian  ladere.  Don't 
imagine  you  are  deluding  Davus.  "  Do 
you  see  any  wliite  in  my  eye  ?  "  I  am 
not  such  a  fool  as  you  think  me  to  be. 


Davy.  I  HI  take  nnj  davi/  of  it.  I'll 
take  my  "  affidavit  "  it  is  true. 

T>avy  {SnaJ'i/).  David  Wilson.  {-See 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  ^'/ie  Antiquarij,  chap, 
iii.  and  note.) 

Davy  Jones's  Locker.  He's  gone  to 
I)anj  Jones's  locker,  i.e.  he  is  dead. 
Jones  is  a  corruption  of  Jonah,  the  pro- 
l^het,  who  was  thrown  into  the  sea. 
Locker,  in  seaman's  phrase,  means  any 
receptacle  for  private  stores ;  and  diiffy 
is  a  ghost  or  spirit  among  the  West 
Indian  negroes.  So  the  whole  pfirase  is, 
' '  He  is  gone  to  the  place  of  safe  keep- 
ing, where  dutfy  Jonah  was  sent  to." 

"This  same  Davy  Jones,  according  to  the 
mythology  of  sailors,  is  the  fiend  that  presides 
overall  the  evil  spirits  of  the  deep,  and  is  seen 
in  vari<jus  shapes  ....  warning  the  devoted 
wretch  of  death  aud  woe."— .SnwKcM;  Pcrefjtine 
riclch;  xiii. 

Da'vy's  Sow.  Drunk  as  Davi/s  sou\ 
Grose  says  :  One  David  Lloyd,  a  Welsh- 
man, who  kept  an  ale-house  at  Hereford, 
had  a  sow  with  six  legs,  which  was  an 
object  of  great  curiosity.  One  day 
David's  wife,  having  indulged  too  freely, 
lay  down  in  the  sty  to  sleep,  and  a  com- 
pany coming  to  see  the  sow,  David  led 
them  to  the  sty,  saying,  as  usual,  "There 
is  a  sow  for  you  !  Did  you  ever  see  the 
like?"  One  of  the  visitors  replied, 
"Well,  it  is  the  drunkenest  sow  I  ever 
beheld."  Whence  the  woman  was  ever 
after  called  "Davy's  sow."  {Classical 
Dictionary  of  the  Vulgar  Tongue.) 

Dawson  {BaUy).  A  noted  London 
sharper,  who  swaggered  and  led  a  most 
abandoned  life  about  Blackfriars,  in  the 
reign  of  Charles  II.  {ISee  Jemmy  Daw- 
son.) 

"Bully  Dawson  kicked  by  half  the  town,  and 
half  the  town  kicked  by  Bully  Dawson."- C7(in7<. s- 
Lamb. 

Day.  When  it  begins.  (1)  With 
sun -set:  The  Jews  in  their  "sacred 
year,"  and  the  Church — hence  the  eve 
of  feast-days  ;  the  ancient  Britons  "  non 
die'rum  nu'inerum,  ut  nos,  sed  noc'fium 
coin'putanf,'^  says  Tacitus — hence  "  so'ii- 
night"  and  " fort' night;"  the  Athenians, 
Chinese,  Mahometans,  etc.,  Italians, 
Austrians,  and  Bohemians.  (2)  With 
sun-rise :  The  Babylonians,  Syrians, 
Persians,  aud  modern  Greeks,  (o)  With 
tioon:  The  ancient  Egyptians  and  modern 
astronomers.  (4)  With  midnight:  The 
English,  French,  Dutch,  Germans,  Spa- 
nish, Portuguese,  Americans,  etc. 

A  dag  after  the  fair.  Too  late  ;  the 
fair  you  came  to  see  is  over. 

Day  in,  day  out.     All  day  long. 
"Sewing  as  she  did,  day  in,  day  out."— 11'.  E. 
Wilkins ;  The  Uoncst  Soul. 


Bay 


334 


i)e  Eigueur 


Every  dug  has  its  cluij.  {Sec  lotder 
Dog.) 

/  have  had  mij  da}j.    My  prime  of  life 
is  over  ;  I  have  been  a  man  of  light  and 
leading,  but  am  now  "  out  of  the  su'ini." 
"  Old  Jdc,  sir  .  .  .  was  a  liit  of  a  favourite  .  .  . 
once;  but  lie  has  had  his  day."— Dickens. 

I  have  lost  a  da;/  {Fer'didi  diem)  was 
the  exclamation  of  Titus,  the  Roman  em- 
jjeror,  when  on  one  occasion  he  could 
call  to  mind  nothing  done  during  the 
past  day  for  the  benefit  of  his  subjects. 

'To-daij  a  man,  to-morrow  a  mouse.  In 
French,  ^'AujourdWiui  roi,  deinuin  rien.''^ 
Fortune  is  so  tickle  that  one  day  we 
may  be  at  the  top  of  the  wheel,  and  the 
next  day  at  the  bottom. 

Day  of  the  Barricades.  {See 
Bakeicades.) 

Day  of  the  Dupes,  in  French  his- 
tory, was  November  II th,  Hi'AO,  when 
Marie  de  Me'dicis  and  Gaston  Due 
d'Orleans  extorted  from  Louis  XIII.  a 
promise  that  he  would  dismiss  his 
Minister,  the  Cardinal  Kichelieu.  The 
cardinal  went  in  all  sjjeed  to  Versailles, 
the  king  repented,  and  Kichelieu  became 
more  powerful  than  ever.  Marie  de 
Me'dicis  and  Gaston  were  the  dupes 
who  had  to  pay  dearly  for  their  short 
triumph. 

Day-dream.  A  dream  of  the  imagi- 
nation when  the  eyes  are  awake. 

Daylight,  in  drinking  bumpers,  means 
that  the  wine-glass  is  not  full  to  the 
In-im  :  between  the  wine  and  the  rim  of 
the  wiue-glass  light  may  be  seen.  Toast- 
masters  used  to  cry  out,  "Gentlemen, 
no  daylights  nor  heeltaps  " — the  heel- 
tap being  a  little  wine  left  at  the  bottom 
of  the  glass.  The  glass  must  be  filled  to 
the  brim,  and  every  drop  of  it  must  be 
drunk. 

Daylights.  The  eyes,  which  let  day- 
liglit  into  tlie  sensorium. 

2o  darhen  one\s  dai/lights.  To  give 
one  such  a  blow  on  the  eyes  with  tlie 
fist  as  to  prevent  seeing.  (Pugilistic 
slang.) 

Days    set    apart    as     Sabbaths. 

Sunday  by  Christians ;  Monday  bj'  the 
Greeks  ;  Tuesday  by  the  Persians  ;  Wcd- 
iicsday  hy  the  Assyrians  ;  Thursday  by 
the  Egyptians ;  Friday  by  the  Turks ; 
Saturday  by  the  Jews. 

Christians  worshi])  God  on  Sunday. 
Gwrhin  zi'alots  haUow  Monday, 
Tuesday  Persians  spend  in  prayer, 
Assyrians  Wednesday  revere, 
Egyptians  Tlncrsday,  Friday  Turks, 
On  Saturday  no  Hebrew  works,     i'.  C.  D. 


Daysman.  An  umpire,  ,iudge,  or 
intercessor.  The  word  is  dais-man  (a 
man  who  sits  on  the  dais)  ;  a  sort  of  lit 
de  justiee.     Hence  Piers  Ploughman — 

"And  at  the  day  of  ihiiun 
At  the  heib'ht  Doy.s  sit." 

Dayspring.  The  dtiwn :  the  com- 
mencement of  the  Messiah's  reign. 

"Tlic  dayspring  from  on  high  hath  visited  us." 
—Luke  i.  78. 

Daystar  {The).  The  morning  star. 
Hence  the  emblem  of  hope  or  better 
l^rospects. 

"  Awiin  <i"er  tlie  vine-cnvered  ret-'ions  of  France, 
See  the  day-star  of  Lil>erty  rise." 

WUson  :  Xuctes  (,Ian.,  ls;U,  \  ol.  iv.  p.  1'30. 

De  Bonne  Grace  (French).  Wil- 
lingly ;  with  good  grace. 

De  Die  in  Diem.  From  day  to  day 
continuously,  till  the  business  is  com- 
pleted. 

"  The  Ministry  have  elected  to  go  on  de  die  in 

dicm."—Xewspapcr  puragrui'h,  December,  1S«5. 

De  Facto.  Actually,  in  reality ;  in 
opposition  to  de  jure,  lawfully  or  riglit- 
full}-.  Thus  John  was  defaeto  kiug,  but 
Arthur  was  so  de  Jure. 

De  Haut  en  Bas.     Superciliousl}\ 

"  She  used  to  treat  him  a  little  de  haul  en  bus." 
—C.  Ihadc. 

V  But  I)u  haut  en  bas.  From  toji  to 
bottom. 

De  Jure  (Latin).  By  right,  right- 
fully, lawfully,  accordiug  to  the  law  of 
the  land.  Thus  a  legal  axiom  saj's  : 
'■'lie  jure  Judiees,  de  faeio  Jura  tores,  re- 
spondtnt "  (Judges  "look  to  the  law, 
juries  to  the  facts). 

De  Lunatico  Inquirendo  (Latin). 
A  writ  issued  to  inquire  into  the  state  of 
a  person's  mind,  whether  it  is  sound  or 
not.  If  not  of  sound  mind,  the  person  is 
called  non  eompos,  and  is  committed  to 
proper  guardians. 

De  Mortuis  Nil  Nisi  Bonum.    Of 

the  detid  sjieak  kindl}'  or  not  at  all. 

De  Nihilo  Nihil  Fit  (Latin).  You 
cannot  make  anytliing  out  of  nothing. 

De  Novo  (Latin).  Afresh  ;  over 
again  from  the  beginning. 

De  Profundis  [Out  of  the  depths]. 
The  130th  Psalm  is  so  called  from  the 
first  two  words  in  the  Latin  version.  It 
is  sung  by  Roman  Catholics  when  the 
dead  are  committed  to  the  gTave. 

De  Rigueur.  Strictly  speaking, 
quite  eomnw  il  faut,  in  the  height  of 
fashion. 


De  Trop 


333 


Bead  Men 


De  Trop  (French).  Supererogatory, 
more  than  enough.  Rieii  dc  trop,  let 
nothing  be  in  excess.  Preserve  in  all 
things  the  golden  mean.  Also  '"  one 
too  many,"  in  the  way  ;  when  a  person's 
presence  is  not  wished  for,  that  person 
is  de  trop. 

Dead.  Dead  as  a  door-nail.  The  door- 
nail is  the  plate  or  knob  ou  which  the 
knocker  or  hammer  stiikes.  As  this  nail 
is  knocked  on  the  head  several  times  a 
day,  it  cannot  be  supposed  to  have  much 
life  left  in  it. 

"  Come  thou  .ind  thy  Ave  men,  and  if  I  dci  not 
li'ave  yoii  all  as  dead  as  a  door-nail,  I  pray  Wixl  I 
ii'ay  never  eat  grass  more."  —  Shakespeare  :  'i 
Jlcury  YI.,  iv.  10.    (Jack  Cade.) 

"  FaWdff.  What !  Is  tlie  old  king  dead  ? 
Pistol.     As  nail  in  door." 

Shakespeare :  2  Uenry  IV.,  v.  3. 

Dead  as  a  herring.     (See  BQeeeing.) 

Dead.  Ife  is  dead.  "  Gone  to  the 
world  of  light. "  "  Joined  the  maj  ority . ' ' 

T/ie  wind  is  dead  against  ns.  Dii'ectly 
opposed  to  our  direction.  Instead  of 
making  the  ship  more  lively,  its  tendency 
is  quite  the  contrary.  It  makes  a  "  dead 
set  "  at  our  progress. 

Dead.  Let  the  dead  liirij  the  dead. 
Let  bygones  be  bygones.  Don't  rake  up 
old  and  dead  grievances. 

"  Let  nie  entreat  you  to  let  the  dead  hury  the 
dead,  to  cast  behind  ymi  every  recollection  of 
bygone  evils,  and  to  clieiish.  to  love,  to  sustain 
one  another  through  all  the  vicissitudes  of  human 
affairs  in  the  times  that  are  Xn  am\e."— Gladstone : 
Hume  Rale  Bill  (February  l:!th,  ls'J3). 

Dead  Drunk.  So  iutoxicated  as  to 
be  wholly  powerless. 

"  Pythagoras  has  finely  oliserved  that  a  man  is 
not  to  tie  considered  dead  drunk  till  he  lies  on 
the  floor  and  stretches  out  his  arms  and  legs  to 
prevent  his  going  lower."—,?.  Warren. 

Dead-eye,  in  nautical  phrase,  is  a 
block  of  wood  -with  tliree  holes  through 
it,  for  the  lanyards  of  rigging  to  reeve 
through,  without  sheaves,  and  with  a 
groove  round  it  for  an  iron  strap.  (Dana  : 
Seaman's  Manual,  p.  92.) 

*?  The  holes  are  eyes,  but  they  are 
dead  eyes. 

Dead-flat  (A),  in  ship  architecture, 
one  of  the  bends  araidship.     (Dana.) 

Dead  Freight.  That  part  of  a  cargo 
which  does  not  belong  to  the  freiglit. 
Dead  freight  is  not  coimted  in  the 
freight,  and  when  the  cargo  is  delivered 
is  not  to  be  reckoned. 

Dead  Hand  (^^).  A  first-rate.  One 
that  would  dead-beat.    {See  Mortmain.) 

"First-rate  work  it  was  too;  he  was  always  a 
dead  hand  at  splitting."— iJoJdJCJCood  ;  Rubbery 
Utider  Arms,  xv. 


Dead-heads,  in  theatrical  language, 
means  those  admitted  by  orders  without 
payment.  They  count  for  notliing.  In 
the  United  States,  persons  who  receive 
something  of  value  for  which  the  tax- 
payer has  to  pay. 

V  In  nautical  language,  a  log  floating 
so  low  in  the  water  that  only  a  small 
part  of  it  is  visible. 

Dead  Heat.  A  race  to  be  run  again 
between  two  horses  that  have  "tied." 
A  heat  is  that  part  of  a  i-ace  run  without 
stopping.  One,  two,  or  more  heats  make 
a  race.  A  dead  heat  is  a  heat  which 
goes  for  nothing. 

Dead  Horse.  Flogging  a  dead  horse.. 
Attempting  to  revive  a  question  already 
settled.  John  Bright  used  the  phrase  in 
the  House  of  Commons. 

IForling  for  a  dead  horse.  Working 
for  wages  already  paid. 

Dead  Languages.  Languages  no 
longer  spoken. 

Dead  Letter.  A  wiitten  document 
of  no  value  ;  a  law  no  longer  acted  upon. 
Also  a  letter  which  lies  buried  in  the 
post-office  because  the  address  is  in- 
correct, or  the  person  addi-esscd  cannot 
be  fouud. 

Dead-letter  Office  (The).  A  de- 
partment in  the  i^ost-office  where  un- 
claimed letters  are  kept.     (See  above.) 

Dead  Lift.  /  am  at  a  dead  lift.  In 
a  strait  or  difficulty  where  I  greatly 
need  help  ;  a  hopeless  exigency.  A 
dead  lift  is  the  lifting  of  a  dead  or  in- 
active body,  which  must  be  done  by 
sheer  force. 

Dead  Lights.  Strong  wooden  shut- 
ters to  close  the  cabin  windows  of  a  ship  ; 
they  deaden  or  kill  the  daylight. 

To  ship  the  dead  lights.  To  draw  the 
shutter  over  the  cabin  window  ;  to  keej) 
out  the  sea  when  a  gale  is  expected. 

Dead  Lock.  A  lock  which  has  no 
spriug  catch.  Metapliorically,  a  state  of 
things  so  entangled  that  there  seems  to 
be  no  practical  solution. 

'■  Things  arc  at  a  dead-lock."— TAe  Times. 

Dead  Men.  Empty  bottles.  Doun 
among  the  dead  men  let  me  lie.  Let  me 
get  so  intoxicated  as  to  slip  from  my 
chair,  and  lie  under  the  table  with  the 
empty  bottles.  The  expression  is  a  wit- 
ticism on  the  word  spirit.  Spirit  means 
life,  and  also  alcohol  (the  sjjirit  of  full 
bottles)  ;  when  the  sjjirit  is  out  the  man 
is  dead,  and  when  the  bottle  is  emjity  its 
sijirit  is  dejiarted.  Also,  a  loaf  of  bread 
smuggled  into  the  basket  for  the  private 


Dead  Men's  Shoes 


336 


Deal 


use  of  the  person  who  carries  the  bread 
out  is  called  a  "  dead  man." 

Dead  Men's  Shoes.  TTaitiiif/  for 
dead  iiiri/^s  s/iocs.  Looking  out  for  lega- 
cies ;  looking  to  stand  in  the  place  of 
some  moneyed  man  when  he  is  dead  and 
buried. 

Dead  Pan  (T/ie).  A  poem  founded 
on  the  tradition  that  at  the  crucifixion  a 
cry  swept  across  the  ocean  in  the  hearing 
of  many,  "  Great  Pan  is  Dead,"  and  that 
at  the  same  time  the  responses  of  the 
oracles  ceased  for  ever.  Elizabeth 
Ban-ett  Browning  has  a  poem  so  called 
(1844). 

Dead  Reckoning.  A  calculation  of 
the  ship's  place  without  any  observation 
of  the  heavenly  bodies.  A  guess  made 
by  consulting  the  log,  the  time,  the 
direction,  the  wind,  and  so  on.  Such  a 
calculation  may  suffice  for  many  prac- 
tical purposes,  but  must  not  be  fully 
relied  on. 

Dead  Ropes.  Those  which  are  fixed 
or  do  not  run  on  blocks ;  so  called 
because  tliey  have  no  activity  or  life  in 
them. 

Dead  Sea.      So  the  Romans  called 

the  "  Salt  Sea."  Jose'phus  says  that 
the  vale  of  Siddim  was  changed  into  the 
Dead  Sea  at  the  destruction  of  Sodom 
{A)itiq.  i.  8,  3,  etc.).  The  water  is  of  a 
dull  green  colour.  Few  fish  are  found 
therein,  but  it  is  not  true  that  birds 
which  venture  near  its  vapours  fall 
down  dead.  The  shores  are  almost 
barren,  but  hyenas  and  other  wild  beasts 
lurk  there.  Called  the  "Salt  Sea" 
because  of  its  saltness.  The  percentage 
of  salt  in  the  ocean  generally  is  about 
three  or  four,  but  of  the  Salt  Sea  it  is 
twenty-six  or  more. 

Dead-Sea  Fruit.  Fair  to  the  eye, 
but  nauseous  to  the  taste ;  full  of  pro- 
mise, but  without  reality.     {Sec  Apples 

OF  SODOII.) 

Dead  Set.  lie  made  a  dead  set  at  hrr. 
A  pointed  or  decided  determination  to 
bring  matters  to  a  crisis.  The  allusion 
is  to  a  setter  dog  that  has  discovered 
game,  and  makes  a  dead  set  at  it. 

To  he  at  a  dead  set  is  to  be  set  fast,  so 
as  not  to  be  able  to  move.  The  allusion 
is  to  machinery. 

To  make  a  dead  set  upon  someone  is  to 
attack  him  resolutely,  to  set  upon  him  ; 
the  allusion  being  to  dogs,  bulls,  etc., 
set  on  each  other  to  fight. 

Dead  Shares.  In  theatrical  sharing 
companies  tlu'ee  or  more  supernumerary 


shares  are  so  called.  The  manager  has 
one  or  more  of  these  shares  for  liis 
expenses  ;  a  star  will  have  another  ;  and 
sometimes  a  share,  or  part  of  a  share,  is 
given  to  an  actor  who  lias  brought  down 
the  house,  or  made  a  hit. 

Dead  Water.  The  eddy-water 
closing  in  with  the  ship's  stern,  as  she 
passes  through  the  water.  It  shifts  its 
place,  but  is  Like  taking  money  from  one 
pocket  and  i)utting  it  into  another. 

Dead  Weight.  The  weight  of  some- 
thing without  life ;  a  burden  that  does 
nothing  towards  easing  its  own  weight ; 
a  person  who  encumbers  us  and  renders 
no  assistance.     {See  Dead  Lift.) 

Dead  Wind  {A).  A  wind  directly 
opposed  to  a  ship's  course ;  a  wind  dead 
ahead. 

Dead  Wood,  in  shi^jbuilding.  Blocks 
of  timber  laid  on  the  ship's  keel.  This 
is  no  part  of  the  ship,  but  it  serves  to 
make  the  keel  more  rigid. 

Dead  Works,  in  theology.  Such 
works  as  do  not  earn  salvation,  or  even 
assist  in  obtaining  it.  For  such  a 
I)uriJose  their  value  is  nil.    (Heb.  ix.  14.) 

Deaf. 

Deaf  as  an  adder.  {See  heloic,  Deap 
Adder.) 

Deaf  as  a  post.  Quite  deaf;  or  so 
inattentive  as  not  to  hear  what  is  said. 
One  might  as  well  sjicak  to  a  gate-jjost 
or  log  of  wood. 

Deaf  as  a  white  cat.  It  is  said  that 
white  cats  are  deaf  and  stupid. 

None  so  deaf  as  those  ivho  won't  hear. 
The  French  have  the  same  locution  : 
"  II  n'y  a  de  pire  sourd  que  celui  qui  ne 
vent  jms  entendre." 

Deaf  Adder.  "The  deaf  adder 
stojipeth  her  ears,  and  will  not  hearken 
to  the  voice  of  the  charmer,  charm  he 
never  so  wisely"  (Psalm  Iviii.  4,  5). 
Captain  Bruce  says,  "  If  a  viper  enters 
the  house,  the  charmer  is  sent  for,  who 
entices  the  serjjcnt,  and  puts  it  into  a 
bag.  I  have  seen  jjoisonous  vipers  twist 
round  the  bodies  of  these  psylli  in  all 
directions,  without  having  their  fangs 
extracted."  According  to  tradition,  tlie 
asp  stops  its  ears  when  the  charmer 
utters  his  incantation,  by  applying  one 
ear  to  the  ground  and  twisting  its  tail 
into  the  other.  In  the  United  States  the 
cojjperhead  is  so  called. 

Deal.  A  ijortion.  "  A  tenth  deal  of 
flour."     (Exodus  xxix.  40.)     (German, 


Deal-fish. 


337 


Death 


thcil ;  Anglo-Saxon,  cl<el,  verb,  dcelan, 
to  share  ;  Irish,  dail ;  English,  dole.) 

Til  deal  the  cards  is  to  give  each  his 
dole  or  portion. 

Deal-fish.  So  called  because  of  some 
fancied  resemblance  to  a  deal-board, 
from  its  length  and  thinness. 

Dean  {theTiaXin Dcca'nns).  The  chief 
over  ten  prebends  or  canons. 

The  Dean  (II  Fiova'no).  Arlotto,  the 
Italian  Immorist.     (1395-1483.) 

Jonathan  Swift,  Dean  of  St.  Patrick. 
(16G7-1745.) 

Deans  (Fffie),  in  Scott's  Henri  of 
Midlotliuoi,  is  Helen  Walker.  She  is 
abandoned  by  her  lover,  G-eordie  Robert- 
son [Staunton],  and  condemned  for 
child-mui'der. 

JecDiie  Beans.  Half-sister  of  Effie 
Deans,  who  walks  all  the  way  to  London 
to  plead  for  her  sister.  She  is  a  model 
of  good  sense,  strong  affection,  and  dis- 
interested heroism.     {See  Walkee.  ) 

"  Wc  fdlliiw  Pilgrim  tliroupb  his  progrrpss  with 
ail  iiitfi'i'st  not,  inferior  to  that  with  which  we 
follow  Elizatioth  fru)u  Siberia  to  Moscow,  and 
.leiniie  Deans  from  Edinburgh  to  Loudon." — Lord 
Macimlaii. 

Dear.  Oh,  dear  me  !  Regarded,  but 
without  evidence,  as  a  corrujition  of  the 
Italian  0  I)io  nt'to  ! 

Dear  Bought  and  Far  Brought  or 

Dear  hoiajht  and  far  felt.  A  gentle 
reproof  for  some  extravagant  purchase 
of  luxury. 

Dearest.  Most  hateful,  as  dearest 
foe.  The  word  dear,  meaning  "  beloved," 
is  the  Saxon  deor  (dear,  rare) ;  but  dear, 
"hateful,"  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  derian 
(to  hurt),  Scotch  dere  (to  annoy). 

"  Would  T  had  met  m.v  dearest  foe  in  heaven, 
Or  ever  I  had  seen  that  day,  Horatio." 

Shakespeare:  Hamlet,  i.  '2. 

Death,  according  to  Milton,  is  twin- 
keeper  with  Sin,  of  HeU-gate. 

"The  otlier  shape 
(If  shape  it  might  be  called  that  shape  had  none 
D  stinguishable  m  member,  joint,  or  limb  ; 
Or    substance    might    he    called    that    shadow 

seemed ;).... 
The  likeness  of  a  kingly  crown  had  on." 

MUtou :  Paradise  Lost,  li.  666 — 673. 

Death.     {See  Black  Death.) 

Death  stands,  like  Mercuries,  in  every 

wai/.     {See  Meecuey.) 

Till  death  us  do  part.     {See  Depaet.) 
Angel  of  Death.     {See  Abou-Jahia, 

Azeael.) 

At  death's  door.      On  the    point    of 

death ;  very  dangerously  ill. 
In  at   the  death.    Present  when  the 

fox  was  caught  and  killed. 
22 


Death    and     Doctor    Hornbook. 

Doctor  Hornbook  was  John  Wilson  tlie 
apothecary,  whom  tlie  \WQt  met  at  the 
Torbolton  Masonic  Lodge.     {Darns.) 

Death  from  Strange  Causes. 

^l-Js'chi/li(s  was  killed  by  the  fall  of  a 
tortoise  on  his  bald  head  from  the  claws 
of  an  eagle  in  the  air.  (  Valerias  Ma.ri- 
mas,  ix.  12,  and  Plinji :  Jlis/ori/,  vii.  7.) 

Af/ath'oclcs  (4  syl.),  tji-ant  of  Sicily, 
was  killed  by  a  toothpick  at  the  age  "of 
ninety-five. 

Anac'reon  was  choked  by  a  grapestone. 
{TUnij :  History,  vii.  7.) 

BassKS  {Qitintt's  Lacdnus)  died  from 
the  prick  of  a  needle  in  his  left  thumb. 

Chalchas,  the  soothsayer,  died  of 
laughter  at  the  thought  of  having  out- 
lived the  predicted  hour  of  his  death. 

CharJes  VIII.,  of  France,  conducting 
his  queen  into  a  tennis-court,  struck 
his  head  against  the  Hntel,  and  it  caused 
his  death. 

Fab' i as,  ihe  Roman  prtetor,  was  choked 
by  a  single  goat-hair  in  the  milk  which 
he  was  drinking.   {Blini/:  Disfor>/,\u.  7.) 

Frederick  Lcnis,  Prince  of  Wales, 
died  from  the  blow  of  a  cricket-ball. 

Gall  as  {Cornelias),  the  jsrsetor,  and 
Titus  Haterius,  a  knight,  each  died 
while  kissing  the  hand  of  his  wife. 

Gabrielle  {La  bcl/e),  the  mistress  of 
Henri  IV.,  died  from  eating  an  orange. 

liadach  died  of  thirst  in  the  harvest- 
field  because  (in  observance  of  the  rule 
of  St.  Patrick)  he  refused  to  drink  a 
drop  of  anj'thiug. 

Lcp'idas  {Qaintas  ^^m'ilias),  going 
out  of  his  house,  struck  his  great  toe 
against  the  threshold  and  expired. 

Zoais  VI.  met  with  his  death  from  a 
pig  running  under  his  horse  and  causing 
it  to  stumble. 

Marqatte  died  of  laughter  on  seeing 
a  monkey  trying  to  pull  on  a  pair  of 
boots. 

Oticay,  the  poet,  in  a  starring  con- 
dition, had  a  guinea  given  him,  on  which 
he  bought  a  loaf  of  bread,  and  died 
while  swallowing  the  first  moutlif  ul. 

Pamphilias  {Cneuis  Babias),  a  man  of 
prffitorian  rank,  died  while  asking  a  boy 
what  o'clock  it  was. 

Philom'enes  (4  syl.)  died  of  laughter 
at  seeing  an  ass  eating  the  figs  provided 
for  his  own  dessert.  ( J'alerias  Jlaxiiaas.) 

Blacat  {Phillipot)  di-opi^ed  down  dead 
while  in  the  act  of  paying  a  bill.  {Baca- 
bcrrij  the  Elder.) 

Qaenelault,  a  Norman  physician,  of 
Monti)eUier,  died  from  a  slight  wound 
made  in  his  hand  in  extracting  a  splinter. 


Death  in  the  Pot 


333 


December 


Saufcitis  (Appius)  was  choked  to  death 
supping  up  the  wliite  of  an  under-boiled 
egg.     {I'lhn/  :  llistov)/,  vii.  33.) 

Torqua'tus  {Aldus  Manlius),  a  gentle- 
man of  consular  rank,  died  in  the  act  of 
taking  a  cheesecake  at  dinner. 

Valid  {Lucius  Tuscius),  the  phj'sician, 
died  in  the  act  of  taking  a  draught  of 
medicine. 

Jf'illiam  III.  died  from  his  horse 
stumbling  over  a  mole-hill. 

Zcuxis,  the  great  painter,  died  of 
laughter  at  sight  of  a  hag  which  he  had 
just  depicted. 

V  It  will  be  observed  that  four  of  the 
list  died  of  laughter.  No  doubt  the 
reader  vrill  be  able  to  add  other  ex- 
amples. 

Death  in  the  Pot.  During  a  dearth 
in  Gilgal,  there  was  made  for  the  sons 
of  the  j)rophets  a  pottage  of  wild  herbs, 
some  of  which  were  poisonous.  When 
the  sons  of  the  jsrophets  tasted  the  pot- 
tage, they  cried  out,  "  There  is  death  in 
the  pot."  Then  Elisha  put  into  it  some 
meal,  and  its  poisonous  qualities  were 
counteracted.     (2  Kings  iv.  40.) 

Death  under    Shield.       Death    in 

battle. 

"  Her  imagination  hail  lieen  familiarised  witli 
■wild  and  bloody  events  ....  and  had  been 
trained  up  to  consider  an  honourable  'death 
under  shield'  (as  that  in  a  field  of  battle  was 
termed)  a  desirable  termination  to  the  life  of  a 
warrior."— ,s'/i-  W.  Scott :  Tlic  Betrothed,  chai>.  C. 

Death-bell.  A  tinkling  in  the  ears, 
siqjposed  by  the  Scotch  peasantry  to 
announce  the  death  of  a  friend. 

"  O  lady,  'tis  dark,  an'  I  heard  the  death-bell, 
Au'  1  dareua  gae  y(mder  for  gowd  nor  fee." 
James  Hogg  :  Mountain  Bard. 

Death-meal  (yi).  A  funeral  banquet. 

"  Deat  h-mcals,  as  tliey  were  termed,  were  spread 
in  honnur  of  the  deceased.''— .S'ic  W.  Scott:  The 
Betrothed,  chap.  7. 

Death-watch.  Any  species  of  Ano- 
bium,  a  genus  of  wood-boring  beetles 
that  make  a  clicking  sound,  once  sup- 
posed to  ijresage  death. 

Death's  Head.  Bawds  and  pro- 
curesses used  to  wear  a  ring  bearing  the 
impression  of  a  death's  head  in  the  time 
of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Allusions  not  un- 
common in  plays  of  the  jDeriod. 

"  Sell  some  of  my  cloaths  to  buy  thee  a  death's- 
head,  and  put  [il]  upon  thy  middle  finger.  Your 
least  considering  bawds  do  so  much."— .l/cssf  Hf/cr  ; 
Old  Lilies,  iv.  1. 

Death's  Head  on  a  Mopstick.    A 

thin,  sickly  jjerson,  a  mere  anatomy,  is 
so  called.  When  practical  jokes  were 
more  common  it  was  by  no  means  un- 
usual to  moimt  on  a  mopstick  a  turnip 


■with  holes  for  eyes,  and  a  cande  inside, 
to  scare  travellers  at  night  time. 

Deaths-man.  An  executioner ;  a 
person  who  kills  another  brutally  but 
lawfully. 

"  Cireat  Hector's  deaths-man." 

Ueyicood:  Iran  Age. 

Debateable  Land.  A  tract  of  land 
between  the  Esk  and  Sark,  claimed  by 
both  England  and  Scotlantl,  and  for  a 
long  time  the  subject  of  dispute.  This 
tract  of  land  was  the  hotbed  of  thieves 
and  vagabonds. 

De'bon.  One  of  the  heroes  who 
accompanied  Brute  to  Britain.  Ac- 
cording to  British  fable,  Devonshire  is 
the  county  or  share  of  Debon.  (See 
Devonshike.  ) 

Debonair'  [Lc  Debonnaire'].  Louis  I. 
of  France,  sometimes  called  in  English 
T/ie  Meek,  sou  and  successor  of  Charle- 
magne ;  a  man  of  courteous  manners, 
cheerful  temper,  but  effeminate  and  de- 
ficient in  moral  energy.     (778,  814-840.) 

Debris.  The  (lehris  of  an  armi/.  The 
remnants  of  a  routed  army.  Debris  means 
the  fragments  of  a  worn-down  rock.  It 
is  a  geological  term  {dvbrisn\  to  break 
down). 

Debt  of  Nature.  To  pay  the  debt  of 
Xafiirc.  To  die.  Life  is  a  loan,  not  a 
gift,  and  the  debt  is  paid  off  by  death. 

"  The  slender  debt  to  Nature's  quickly  paid." 
Qiiarles :  Emblems. 

Decam'eron.  A  volume  of  tales  re- 
lated in  ten  days  (Greek,  deka,  hcm'era), 
as  the  Decameron  of  Boccac'cio,  which 
contains  one  hundred  tales  related  in 
ten  days. 

Decamp'.  ITc  decamped  hi  the  middle 
of  the  night.  Left  without  paying  his 
debts.  A  military  term  from  the  Latin 
de-eampits  (from  the  field) ;  French,  de- 
campcr,  to  march  away. 

Decaniller.  To  be  off,  to  decamp, 
to  escape.  A  cmious  instance  of  argot. 
Canille  is  old  French  for  clienille,  a  pupa, 
imago,  or  chrysalis.  These  afterwards 
become  winged  insects  and  take  their 
flight.  So  a  visitor  says  in  France,  "  11 
faitt  me  saiiver,"  or  "  Ilfaitt  decaiiiller.^^ 
I  must  be  off. 

December.  (Latin,  the  tenth  month.) 
So  it  was  when  the  year  began  in  March 
with  the  vernal  equinox ;  but  since 
January  and  Februarj^  have  been  in- 
serted before  it,  the  term  is  quite  in- 
correct. 


Deception 


339 


Deer 


Deception. 

'•  Dmilitless  the  pleasure  is  as  great 
Of  liein,!,'  clie;ited  as  to  cheat  ; 
As  lookers-un  fee!  most  delii-'lit 
TIJat  least  iierceive  a  iiiLri-'lers  sleight, 
And  still  the  less  tlu-.v  undersfiind, 
The  more  they  admire  his  sleii^ht  of  hand." 
Butter  :  IluiUbras,  iiart  ii.  3. 

Deci'de  (2  syl.)  means  "to  knock 
out."  Several  things  being  set  before  a 
person,  he  eliminates  all  but  one,  which 
he  selects  as  his  choice.  A  decided  man 
is  one  who  quickly  eliminates  every  idea 
but  the  one  he  intends  to  adhere  to. 

Decimo.  jL  m<tn  in  decimo — i.e.  a 
hobby-de-hoy.  Jonson  uses  the  phrase 
in  decimo-sexto. 

Deck.  A  pack  of  cards,  or  that  part 
of  tlie  pack  which  is  left  after  the  hands 
have  been  dealt. 

i"  But  whilst  he  thought  to  steal  the  single  '  ten,' 
The  '  king'  was  slyly  tlugered  from  the  deck." 
Shakespeare:  3  Henri/  VI.,  v.  1. 

To  sweep  the  deck.  To  clear  off  all  the 
stakes.     {See  above.) 

To  deck  is  to  decorate  or  adorn. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  decan;  Dutch,  dekken,  to 
cover.) 

"  I  thought  thy  bride-bed  to  have  decked,  sweet 
maid. 
And  not  have  strewed  thy  grave." 

Shakespeare :  Hamlet,  v.  1. 

Ctear  the  decks — i.e.  get  out  of  the 
way ;  your  room  is  better  than  your 
company  ;  I  am  going  to  be  busy.  A  sea 
tenn.      Decks  are  cleared  before  action. 

Decking  Churches.  Isaiah  (Ix.  13) 
says:  "The  glory  of  Lebanon  shall 
come  unto  thee ;  the  fir-tree,  the  pine- 
tree,  and  the  box  together,  to  beautify 
the  place  of  my  sanctuary."  The 
"  glory  of  Lebanon"  is  the  cedar- tree. 
These  are  not  the  evergreens  mainly 
used  in  church  decorations.  At  Christ- 
mas the  holly  is  chiefly  used,  though  those 
mentioned  by  Isaiah  abound. 

D^coUet^  [da-cocd-tci].  Xothing  even 
decollete  should  be  uttered  before  ladies — 
i.e.  bearing  the  least  semblance  to  a  double 
entendre.  Decollete  is  the  French  for  a 
"  dress  cut  low  about  the  bosom." 

Decoration  Day.  May  30th ;  set 
apart  in  the  United  States  for  decorating 
the  graves  of  those  who  fell  in  the  ' '  War 
of  the  Union"  (1861-5). 

Decoy  Duck.  A  bait  or  lure  ;  a 
duck  taught  to  allure  others  into  a  net, 
and  employed  for  this  purpose. 

Decrepit.  Unable  to  make  a  noise. 
It  refers  rather  to  the  mute  voice  and 
silent  footstep  of  old  age  than  to  its 
broken  strength,     (Latin,  de-crepo.) 


Dec'uman  Gate.  The  gate  where 
the  10th  cohorts  of  the  legions  wei'e 
jjosted.  It  was  opposite  the  Prajtorian, 
gate,  and  farthest  from  the  enemy. 
(Latin,  decent,  ten.) 

Deda'lian.  Intricate  ;  variegated. 
So  called  from  JJcc'dalos,  who  made  the 
Cretan  labj'rinth. 

Dedlock  [Sir  Leicester).  An  honour- 
able and  truthful  gentleman,  but  of  such 
fossilised  ideas  that  no  "  tongue  of  man  " 
could  shake  his  i^rejudices.  {Charles 
Dickens  :  Bleak  House.) 

Dee — i.e.  D  for  a  detective,  look 
sharp  !  the  dees  are  about. 

Dee  {I)r.  John).  A  man  of  vast 
knowledge,  whose  library,  museum,  and 
mathematical  instruments  were  valued 
at  £2,000.  On  one  occasion  the  populace 
broke  into  his  house  and  destroyed  the 
greater  part  of  his  valuable  collection, 
under  the  notion  that  Dee  held  inter- 
course with  the  devil.  He  ultimately 
died  a  pauper,  at  the  advanced  age  of 
eighty-one,  and  was  buried  at  Mortlake. 
He  professed  to  be  able  to  raise  the  dead, 
and  had  a  magic  niuTor,  afterwards  iu 
Horace  Walpole's  collection  at  Straw- 
berry Hill  (1527-1608). 

Dee's  speculum  or  mirror,  in  which 
persons  were  told  they  could  see  their 
friends  in  distant  lauds  and  how  they 
were  occupied.  It  is  a  piece  of  solid 
pink-tinted  glass  about  the  size  of  an 
orange.  It  is  now  iu  the  British 
Museum. 

Dee  Mills.  If  you  had  the  rent  of 
Dee  2Itlls,  you  would  spend  it  nil.  Dee 
MiUs,  iu  Cheshire,  used  to  yield  a  very 
large  annual  rent.     {Cheshire  itrorcrb.) 

"  There  was  a  jolly  miller 
Lived  on  the  nver  Dee  ; 
He  worked  and  sung  from  morn  to  night- 
No  lark  so  blithe  as  he  ; 
And  this  the  burden  of  his  sung 

For  ever  used  to  be— 
I  care  for  noliody,  no,  not  T, 
If  nobody  cares  for  me.'  " 

Bickerstaff :  Love  in  a  Village  (1762). 

Deer.  Supposed  by  poets  to  shed 
tears.  The  drops,  however,  wliich  fall 
from  their  eyes  are  not  tears,  but  an 
oily  secretion  from  the  so-called  tear-pits. 

"  A  poor  seciuestered  stag  .... 
Did  come  to  languish  ....  and  the  big  round 

tears 
Coursed  one  another  down  his  innocent  nose 
In  piteous  chase." 

Shakespeare :  As  You  Like  It,  ii.  2. 

Small  deer.     Any  small  animal ;    and 
used  metajDhorically  for  any  collection 
of  trifles  or  trifling  mutters. 
"  But  mice  and  rats,  and  such  small  deer, 
Have  been  Tom's  food  for  seven  long  year." 
Shakespeare:  Lear,  iii.  -1. 


Deerslayer 


340 


Deities 


Deerslayer.  The  hero  of  a  novel  so 
called,  by  F.  Cooper.  He  is  the  beau- 
ideal  of  a  mail  without  cultivation — 
honourable  in  sentiment,  truthful,  and 
brave  as  a  lion  ;  jnire  of  heart,  and  with- 
out reproach  in  conduct.  The  character 
apjjears,  under  different  names,  ia  five 
novels — Tlifi  liccrsiaiji  )\  The  I'athjinder, 
The  Tad  of  the  3Io'liie(i)is,  The  Pioneers, 
aiid  The  Trairic.     {See  Natty  Bumpo.) 

Dees  {The).     {See  above  D-ee.) 

Deev-Binder.  Tamnuras,  King  of 
Persia,  who  defeated  the  Deev  king  and 
the  fierce  Demrusli,  but  was  slain  by 
Houndkonz,  another  powerful  Deev. 

Default.  Judgment  by  cle fault  is 
when  the  defendant  does  not  appear  in 
court  on  the  day  apiiointed.  The  judge 
gives  sentence  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff, 
not  because  the  jDlaintiff  is  right,  but 
from  the  default  of  the  defendant. 

Defeat.  "  What  though  the  field  be 
lost':'  all  is  not  lost."  {Milton:  Paradise 
lost,  i.  line  105-6.) 

"All  is  lost  but  honour"  {Tout  est 
perdu,  niadame,  J'ors  Vhonneur)  is  what 
rran(;ois  I.  is  said  to  have  written  to 
his  mother,  after  the  Battle  of  Pavia 
in  15'2;3. 

Defeat.  Tliere  is  a  somewhat  strange 
connection  between  de-feat  and  de- 
feature. Defeat  is  the  French  de-fait, 
un-made  or  un-done  ;  Latin,  de-factus 
{defect us,  oui-  "  defect ")  ;  and  feature  is 
the  'Sorm.aa.  faiture,  'Lniva.  factu'ra,th.e 
make-up,  frame,  or  form.  Hence  old 
writers  have  used  the  word  "  defeat "  to 
mean  disfigure  or  spoil  the  fonn. 

"Defeat  tliy  favour  [face]  ■witli  an  usurped 
^^e■M\\"—Shnk(SfiC(l■re:  Othello,  i.  3. 

Defender  of  the  Faith.  A  title 
given  by  Pojie  Leo  X.  to  Henry  VIII.  of 
England,  in  1521,  for  a  Latin  treatise 
On  the  Seven  Sacraments.  Many  pre- 
vious kings,  and  even  subjects,  had 
been  termed  "  defenders  of  the  Catholic 
faith,"  "defenders  of  the  Church,"  and 
so  on,  but  110  one  had  borne  it  as  a  title. 
The  sovereign  of  Spain  is  entitled  Catho- 
lic, and  of  France  3Iost  Christian. 

"God  bless  the  king!     I  mean  the  'faith's  de- 
fender I ' 
God  bless— no  liami  in  blessing  tlie  Pretender. 
But  who  Pretender  is,  or  who  is  king- 
God  bless  us  all  !  that's  auite  another  thing." 
Jolcn  Byron  :  Shnriliand  Writer. 

"  Richard  II.,  in  a  writ  to  the 
sheriffs,  uses  these  words :  "Ucelesia  rujus 
nos  defensor  sumus,'^  and  Henry  VII.,  in 
the  Black  Book,  is  called  "Defender  of 
the  Faith  ;  "  but  the  pope  gave  the  title 
to  Henry  VIII.,  and  from  that  time  to 


this  it  has  been  pei-petuated.  ( See  Grace- 
less Floein.) 

De'ficit  {Madame).  Marie  Antoinette. 
So  called  because  she  was  always  de- 
manding money  of  her  ministers,  and 
never  had  any.  Accordiug  to  the  Eevo- 
lutionary  song : 

"  La  Boulangei'O  a  des  ecus. 
Qui  ne  lui  content  guorc.'* 

{See  Bakee.) 

Degen'erate  (4  syl.)  is  to  be  worse 
than  tlie  jmrent  stock.    (Latin,  der/enus.) 

Dei  Gratia.  By  God's  grace.  Intro- 
duced into  English  charters  in  HOG;  as 
much  as  to  say,  "  r/ei  non  hominum 
yratia,''''  by  divine  right  and  not  man's 
appointment.  The  archbishops  of  Can- 
terbury from  676  to  1170  assumed  the 
same  style. 

V  From  the  time  of  Offa,  King  of 
Mercia  (a.d.  780),  we  find  occasionally 
the  same  or  some  similar  assumption  as, 
Dei  dono,  Christo  donante,  etc.  The 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury  is  now  divina 
providentia. 

I)ei  Gratia  omitted  on  a  florin.  {See 
Geaceless  Florin.) 

Dei  Judicium  (Latin).  The  judg- 
ment of  God ;  so  the  judgment  by 
ordeals  was  called,  because  it  was  sup- 
posed that  God  would  deal  rightly  with 
the  apijellants. 

De'iani'ra.  Wife  of  Hercules,  and 
the  inadvertent  cause  of  his  death. 
Nessos  told  her  that  anyone  to  whom 
she  gave  a  shu't  steeped  in  his  blood, 
would  love  her  with  undying  love ;  she 
gave  it  to  her  husband,  and  it  caused 
him  such  agony  that  he  burnt  himself 
to  death  on  a  funeral  pile.  Deianira 
killed  herself  for  grief. 

Deiph'ohus  (4  syl.).  One  of  the  sons 
of  Priam,  and,  next  to  Hector,  the 
bravest  and  boldest  of  all  the  Trojans. 
On  the  death  of  his  brother  Paiis,  he 
married  Helen ;  but  Helen  betrayed 
him  to  her  first  husband,  Menela'os,  who 
slew  him.  {Homefs  Iliad  and  TirrjiVs 
yEneid.) 

Deities. 

Air :  Ariel,  Elves  Csingular,  Elf). 

Caves  or  Caverns:  HilJ-jieoide  (Hog-folk,  hug  r 
height). 

Cm-n :  Ceres  (i  syl.)  CGreek,  Denieter). 

Domestic  Life :  Vesta. 

Eloquence:  Mercury  (Greek,  Hennes). 

Evenino :  Vesper. 

Fnfes  (The') :  Three  in  number  (Greek,  ParciC, 
Moirap, ;;  syl.,  Keres). 

Fire:  Vulcan  (Greek,  HephaistCs,  3  syl.),  Vesta, 
Jiulclber. 

Fairies :  (g.v.). 

Furies:  Three  in  number  (Greek,  Eumculdes, 
4  syl.,  Erinn'yes). 


Dejeuner 


Ml 


Delia  Cruscans 


Gardens:  Priainis,  Vertumnus  with  his  wife 
Pomona. 

Graces  (.The):  Three  in  miraher  (Greek,  Chai-l- 
tes). 

Hills:  Trolls.  There  are  also  Wood  Trolls  and 
Water,TroUs.    OS'ee  below  Mountains.) 

Home  Sidrits  (,q.v.) :  Penates  (S  sji.),  Lares  (2 
s.vl.). 

Htmting :  Diana  (Greek,  Artemis). 

Infernal  Regions:  Pluto,  with  his  wife  Proser- 
ping ,  3  syl.  (Greek,  A'iiles  and  PersephOne). 

Justice:  Them'is,  Astrtea,  Nemesis. 

Love:  Cupid  (Greek,  Eros). 

Marriage:  Hymen. 

Medicine:  /Esculapius. 

Mines :  Trolls. 

Morning :  Aurora'(Greek,  Eos'). 

Mountains:  Oreads  or  Oreades  (4  syl.),  from  the 
Greek,  opos,  a  mountain;  Trolls. 

Ocean  (The) :  Ocean'ides. 

Poetry  and  Music:  Apollo,  the  nine  Muses. 

Rainboto  (The) :  Iris. 

Riches :  Plutiis.  Shakespeare  speaks  of  "  Plutus' 
mine,"  (Jtilius  Ccesar,  iv.  3). 

Rivers  and  Streams:  Fluviales,  4  syl.  (Greek, 
Potan.eiiles,  5  syl.). 

SeatThe):  Neptune  (Greek,  Poseidon,. 3  syl.),  his 
sou  Triton,  Necks,  Mermaids,  Nereids  (3  syl.). 
(See  Sea.) 

Shepherds  and  their  Flocks:  Pan,  the  Satyrs. 

Springs,  Lakes,  Brooks,  etc. :  Nereides  or  Naiads 
(:;syl.). 

Time  :  Saturn  (Greek,  ChrOnos). 

War:  Mars  (Greek,  Ares),  Bellona,  Tlior. 

Water-nymphs :  Naiads  (•-'  syl.),  Undine  (2  syl.). 

Winds  (The):  .E81us. 

Wine:  Bacchus  (Greek,  Diony'sfis). 

ir/,s<(<.)H ;  Minerva  (Greek,  Pailas,  Athene,  (>r 
Pallas-Allieiie). 

Wiiods:  Dryads  (A  Hania-Dryad  presides  over 
some  particular  tree),  Wood-Trolls. 

Youth  :  Helie. 

V  Of  course  this  is  not  meant  for  a 
complete  list  of  heathen  and  pagan 
deities.  Such  a  list  would  require  a 
volume. 

Dejeuner  k  la  Fourcbette  (French). 
Brenkfiist  with  forks  ;  a  cold  collation  ; 
a  breakfast  in  the  middle  of  the  day, 
with  meat  and  wiue  ;  a  lunch. 

Delaware,  U.S.  America,  was  granted 
Ly  charter  in  1701  to  Lord  De  la  Ware, 
who  first  explored  the  bay  into  which 
the  river  empties  itself. 

Delectable  Mountains  (T/ic),  in 
Bunyan's  Pil<j rim^ s  Frogresx,  are  a  range 
of  mountains  from  which  the  "  Celestial 
City"  may  be  seen.  They  are  in  Im- 
mauuel's  land,  and  are  covered  with 
sheep,  for  which  Immanuel  had  died. 

Delf,  or  more  correctly  BcJft.  A 
common  sort  of  pottery  made  at  Delft 
in  Holland,  about  1310. 

Delia,  of  Pope's  line,  "Slander  or 
poison  dread  from  Delia's  rage,"  was 
Lady  Deloraine,  who  manied  W.  "Win- 
dam  of  Carsham,  and  died  1744.  The 
person  said  to  have  been  poisoned  was 
Miss  Mackenzie.  (Satires  and  Epistles, 
i.  81.) 

Delia  is  not  better  known  to  our  i/ard- 
dof/ — i.e.  the  person  is  so  intimate  and 
well  known  that  the  yard-dog  will  not 


bark  at  his  approach.  It  is  from  Virgil, 
who  makes  his  shepherd  Menalcas  boast 
"That  his  sweetheart  is  as  well  known 
to  his  dog  as  Delia  the  shepherdess." 
{Eclogues,  iii.  67.) 

Delias.  The  sacred  vessel  made  by 
Theseus  (2  syl.)  and  sent  annually  from 
Athens  to  Delos.  This  annual  festival 
lasted  30  days,  during  which  no  Athenian 
could  be  put  to  death,  and  as  Socrates 
was  condemned  during  this  period  his 
death  was  deferred  till  the  return  of  the 
sacred  vessel.  The  ship  had  been  so 
often  repaired  that  not  a  stick  of  the 
original  vessel  remained  at  the  time,  yet 
was  it  the  identical  ship.  So  the  body 
changes  from  infancy  to  old  age,  and 
though  no  single  particle  remains  con- 
stant, yet  the  man  G  feet  high  is  identical 
with  his  infant  body  a  span  long.  (Some- 
times called  Tlieoris.) 

Delight  is  "to  make  light."  Hence 
Shakespeare  speaks  of  the  disembodied 
soul  as  "the  delighted  spirit  .... 
blown  with  restless  violence  round  about 
the  pendant  world"  {Measure  for  Mea- 
sure, iii.  1).  So  again  he  says  of  gifts, 
"  the  more  delayed,  delighted  "  {(Jijnihe- 
line,  y.  5),  meaning  the  longer  they  are 
delayed  the  "lighter"  or  less  valuable 
they  are  esteemed.  Dehghted,  in  the 
sense  of  "  pleased,"  means  light-hearted, 
with  buoyant  spirits. 

T/ic  delight  of  mankind.  So  Titus,  the 
Eoman  emperor,  was  entitled  (40,  79-81). 

Delirium.  From  the  Latin  lira  (the 
ridge  left  by  the  plough),  hence  the  verb 
de-tiru're,  to  make  an  irregular  ridge  or 
balk  in  ploughing.  DelHrus  is  one  whose 
mind  is  not  properly  tilled  or  cultivated, 
a  person  of  irregular  intellect ;  and  de- 
lirium is  the  state  of  a  person  whose 
mental  faculties  are  like  a  field  full  of 
balks  or  ii-regularities.    {See  Peevaeica- 

TION.) 

Delia  Crus'cans  or  Delia  Crns'can 
School.  So  called  from  Crusca,  the 
Florentine  academy.  The  name  is  ap- 
plied to  a  school  of  poetry  started  by 
some  young  Englishmen  at  Florence  in 
the  latter  part  of  the  eighteenth  century. 
These  silly,  sentimental  affectations, 
which  appeared  in  the  IForld  and  the 
Oracle,  created  for  a  time  quite  a.  furore. 
The  whole  affair  was  mercilesslj^  gibbeted 
in  the  Bariad  and  Mccviad  of'Gifford. 
(Academia  della  Crusca  literally  means, 
the  Academy  of  Chaff,  and  its  object 
was  to  sift  the  chaff  from  the  Italian  lan- 
guage, or  to  purify  it.) 


Belmonico 


3i2 


iDemocritos 


Delmon'ico.  The  great  American 
cuisiuier,  of  Xew  York. 

"Tlje  tabic?  service  is  cif  heavy  silver,  French 
cut.  glasses,  and  handsome  china  ;  and  the  meals 
are  worthy  o(  Delmonico."— I'/je  &racle,  August 
I'Hd,  1884,  p.  495. 

De'los.  A  floating  island  ultimately 
made  fast  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea  by 
Posei'don  (Neptune).  Apollo  having 
become  possessor  of  it  by  exchange, 
made  it  his  favourite  retreat.  It  is  one 
of  tlie  Cyclades. 

Delphi  or  DcIpJios.  A  town  of  Pho'- 
cis,  famous  for  a  temple  of  Apollo  and 
for  an  oracle  celebrated  in  every  age  and 
country.  So  called  from  its  twin  peaks, 
which  tb«  Greeks  called  brothers  («- 
deljjhoi). 

Delphin  Classics.  A  set  of  Latin 
classics  edited  in  France  by  thirty-nine 
scholars,  under  the  superintendence  of 
Montausier,  Bossuet,  and  Huet,  for  the 
use  of  the  son  of  Louis  XIV.,  called  the 
Grand  Dauphin.  Their  chief  value 
consists  in  their  verbal  indexes  or  con- 
cordances. 

Del'ta.  The  island  formed  at  the 
mouth  of  a  river,  which  usually  assumes 
a  triangular  form,  like  the  Greek  letter 
(A)  called  delta;  as  the  delta  of  the 
Nile,  the  delta  of  the  Danube,  Rhine, 
Ganges,  Indus,  Niger,  Mississippi,  Po, 
and  so  on. 

Deluge.  After  mc  the  Deluge  ['^Aprh 
omi  le  Delue/c^'''].  When  I  am  dead  the 
deluge  may  come  for  aught  I  care.  Gener- 
ally ascribed  to  Prince  Metternich,  but 
the  Prince  borrowed  it  from  Mme.  Pom- 
padour, who  laughed  off  all  the  remon- 
strances of  ministers  at  her  extravagance 
by  saying,  "  Apres  nous  le  deluge  " 
(Ruin,  if  you  like,  when  we  are  dead  and 
gone) . 

Del'uges  (3  syl.).  The  chief,  besides 
that  recorded  in  the  Bible,  are  the  follow- 
ing : — The  deluge  of  Fohi,  the  Chinese  ; 
the  Satgarrn'ta,  of  the  Indians  ;  the 
Xisut/i'rus,  of  the  Assyrians ;  the  Mexican 
deluge  ;  and  the  Greek  deluges  of  Deu- 
ca'lioii  and  Og'yges. 

V  The  most  celebrated  painting  of 
Noah's  Flood  is  by  Poussin,  in  Paris ; 
and  that  by  Raphael  is  in  the  Vatican 
(Rome) . 

Demerit  has  reversed  its  original 
meaning  (Latin,  demereo,  to  merit,  to 
deserve).  Hence  Plautus,  Demerltas 
dare  laudas  (to  accord  due  praise)  ; 
Ovid,  Numlna  culta  demerume ;  Livy, 
demereri  benejicic  civitaiem.    The  de-  is 


intensive,  as  in  "  de-mand,"  "de- 
scribe," "de-claim,"  etc.;  not  the  pri- 
vative deorsum,  as  in  the  word  "de- 
fame." 

"  My  demerits  [deserts] 
May  speak  unlionncted." 

ShaktitjK'uyc  :  OUtcllo,  i.  2. 

Demijohn  {A).  A  glass  vessel  with 
a  large  body  and  small  nock,  enclosed  in 
wickerwork  like  a  Florence  flask,  and 
containing  more  than  a  bottle.  (French, 
dame-jea)ine,  "  Madam  Jane,"  a  con'up- 
tion  of  Damaghai),  a  town  in  Persia 
famous  for  its  glass  works.) 

Demi-monde.  Lorettes,  courtezans. 
Le  beau  moude  means  "  fashionable  so- 
ciety," and  deini-inomle  the,  society  only 
half  acknowledged. 

"  Demi-monde  implies  not  only  recognition  and 
a  status,  l)ut  a  certaiu  social  standing."— jSafiO'daj/ 
Jievimv. 

Demi-rep.  A  woman  whose  charac- 
ter has  been  blown  upon.  Contraction 
of  de)ul-reputation. 

Demiurge  (3  syl.),  in  the  language 
of  Platonists,  means  that  mysterious 
agent  which  made  the  world  and  all  that 
it  contains.  The  Logos  or  Word  spoken 
of  by  St.  John,  in  the  first  chapter  of  his 
gospel,  is  the  Demiurgus  of  Platonising 
Christians.  In  the  Gnostic  systems, 
Jeliovah  (as  an  eon  or  emanation  of  the 
Supreme  Being)  is  the  Demiurge. 

"The  power  is  not  that  of  an  absolute  cause, 
liut  only  a  world-maker,  a  demiurge  ;  and  this 
(lues  not  answer  to  the  human  idea  of  deity." — 
^\'inclleU :  Science  and  neUgion,  chap.  x.  p.  I'SJS. 

Demobilisation  of  troops.  The 
disorganisation  of  them,  the  disarming 
of  them.  This  is  a  French  military  tenn. 
To  "  mobilise"  troops  is  to  render  them 
liable  to  be  moved  on  service  out  of  their 
quarters;  to  "demobilise"  them  is  to 
send  them  home,  so  that  they  cannot  be 
moved  from  their  quarters  against  any- 
one. To  change  from  a  war  to  a  peace 
footing. 

Democ'racy.  A  Rei)ublican  form  of 
government,  a  commonwealth.  (Greek, 
deiuos-kratia,  the  rule  of  the  people.) 

Democ'ritos.  The  laughing  philo- 
sopher of  Abde'ra.  He  should  rather  be 
termed  the  deriding  philosopher,  because 
he  derided  or  laughed  at  people's  folly  or 
vanity.  It  is  said  that  he  put  out  his 
eyes  that  he  might  think  more  deejily. 

"  Democritus,  dear  droll,  revisit  earth. 
And   with   our   follies   glut    thy    heightened 
mirth."  Prior. 

DemodritKS  Junior.  Robert  Burton, 
author  of  The  Anatomy  of  Melancliohj 
(1576-1640). 


Demodocos 


343 


Deo  Gratiaa 


Demod  ocos.  A  miastrel  who,  ac- 
cordmg  to  Homer,  sang  the  amoxirs  of 
Mars  and  Venus  in  the  court  of  Alcin'oos 
while  Ulysses  was  a  guest  there. 

Demogorgon.  A  terrible  deity, 
whose  very  name  was  capable  of  pro- 
ducing the  most  horrible  effects.  Hence 
Milton  speaks  of  "  the  dreaded  name  of 
Demogorgon"'  {Paradise  Lost,  ii.  9C.5). 
This  tyrant  king  of  the  elves  and  fays 
lived  on  the  Himalayas,  and  once  in  five 
years  summoned  all  his  subjects  before 
him  to  give  an  account  of  their  steward- 
Bhiy).  Spenser  (book  iv.  2)  says,  "He 
dwells  in  the  deep  abyss  where  the  three 
fatal  sisters  dwell."  (Greek  daimoii, 
demon ;  gorgos,  terrible.) 

"  Must  I  call  your  master  to  my  aid. 
At  -wbose  dread  name  tlietreiubliDg  furies  quake, 
Hell   stands  aliashed.   and   earth's  foundatiims 

sbake?"'  Boice :  Liican's  PharsaUa,\i. 

"  When  the  mom  arises  none  are  found, 

For  cruel  Demogorgon  walks  his  round, 

And  if  be  finds  a  fairy  lag  in  light. 

He  drives  the  wretch  \ieiore,  and  lashes  into 
night." 

Dryden :  Tti£  FI('ir(r  and  Ihe  Leaf,  49i-5. 

Demon  of  Matrimonial  Unliappi- 

ness.     Asmode'us,  who  slew  the  se\en 
husbamls  of  Sara.     (Tobii.)     (.SVrAsMO- 

DiEXJS.) 

Prince  of  Demons,  Asmode'us.  {Tal- 
miid.) 

Demos  (57«/?).  The  electorate;  the 
proletariat.  Not  the  mob.  but  those 
who  choose  and  elect  our  senators,  and 
are  therefore  the  virtual  rulers  of  the 
nation. 

Demosthenes'  Lantern.  A  cho- 
ra gic  monument  erected  by  Lysicrates 
in  Athens.  originaDy  surmounted  by  the 
tripod  won  by  Lysicrates.  A  "  tripod  " 
was  awarded  to  everyone  in  Athens  who 
produced  the  best  drama  or  choral  piece 
of  his  tribe.  The  street  in  which  De- 
mosthenes' Lantern  stood  was  fuU  of 
these  tripods. 

Demurrage.  An  allowance  made  to 
the  master  or  owners  of  a  ship  by  the 
freighters  for  detaining  her  in  port  longer 
than  the  time  agreed  upon.  (Latin,  de- 
morari,  to  delay.) 

"  The  extra  days  beyond  the  lay  days  ....  are 
called  days  of  deiiiurrage^" — Keitt :  Commentaries, 
vol.  iii.  iiart  v.  lecture  slvii.  p.  l.w. 

Demy'.  A  size  of  paper  between  royal 
and  crown.  Its  size  is  20  in.  by  15  in. 
It  is  from  the  French  word  dcmi  (half), 
and  means  demi -royal  (a  small  royal), 
royal  being  24  in.  by  19  in.  The  old 
watermark  is  ajleiir-de-lix. 

A  Ihnnj'  of  Magdalen  College,  Oxford, 
is  a  "superior"  sort  of  scholar,  half  a 
Fellow. 


Den.  Evening.  God  xje  good  den  ! — ■ 
i.e.  God  (give)  ye  good  evening.  This  ia 
the  final  d  of  good  joined  to  the  "  en,"  a 
contraction  of  evening. 

Denarius.  A  Roman  silver  coin, 
equal  in  value  to  ten  ases  {dcm-ases). 
The  word  was  used  in  France  and  Eng- 
land for  the  inferiof  coins,  whether 
silver  or  copper,  anci  for  ready  money 
generally.  Now  d  {dvnarius)  stands  for 
money  less  than  a  shilling,  as  £  s.  d. 

"  The  denarius  ....  shovm  to  our  Lord  .... 
was  the  tribute-money  layable  by  the  Jews  lo  the 
Kouian  emperor.anduiust  not  l>e  confounded  with 
the  tril)Ule  l>nid  to  the  Temi'le."'— K  U.  Madden: 
Jetcifh  Coiuaje,  cbai'.  xi.  ii.  i:-S7. 

Doiariiis  Dei  [God's  jienny].  An 
earnest  of  a  bargain,  which  was  given  to 
the  church  or  poor. 

Denarii  Sf.  Petri  [Peter's  pence].  One 
penny  from  each  family,  given  to  the 
Pope. 

Denarius  tertius  eomita'ius.  One-third 
of  the  pence  of  the  county,  which  was 
paid  to  the  earl.  The  other  two-thii-ds 
belonged  to  the  Crown.     {See  J).) 

Denizen.  A  made  citizen — i.e.  an 
alien  who  has  been  naturalised  by  letters 
patent.  (Old  French  deinzein ;  Latin 
de-i»tus,  fi-om  within.) 

"  A  denizen  is  a  kind  of  middle  state,  between 
an  alien  and  a  natural-bom  sulpject,  and  jiartakcs 
of  liotb."  —  Blackstune:  ComiiienUirie^,  book  i. 
cUaii.  X.  l>.  374. 

Dennis  [John),  called  the  "  best 
abused  man  in  England."  Swift  and 
Pope  both  satirised  him.  He  is  called 
Zoilus. 

Denouement  (3  syl.).  The  untying 
of  a  plot :  the  winding-up  of  a  novel  or 
play.     (French  dinoiur,  to  untie.) 

Denys  {St.),  according  to  tradition, 
can-ied  his  head,  after  mailyrdom,  for 
six  miles,  and  then  deliberately  laid  it 
down  on  the  spot  where  stands  the 
present  cathedral  bearing  his  name. 
This  absurd  tale  took  its  rise  from  an 
ancient  painting,  in  which  the  artist, 
to  represent  the  martyrdom  of  the 
bishop,  drew  a  headless  body ;  but,  in 
order  that  the  trunk  might  be  recognised, 
placed  the  head  in  front,  between  the 
martyr's  hands. 

Sir  Dengs  Brand,  in  Crabbe's  Borough, 
is  a  countiy  magnate  who  apes  humility. 
He  rides  on  a  sorry  brown  pony  "not 
worth  £-5,"  but  mounts  his  lackey  on  a 
racehorse,  "twice  victor  for  a  plate." 
Sir  Denys  Brand  is  the  type  of  a  charac- 
ter bv  no  means  uncommon. 


Deo    Gratias    (Latin). 
God. 


Thanks  to 


Deo  Juvante 


3U 


Derwentwater 


Deo  Juvante  (Latin).    Witli  God's 

Deo,  non  Fortuna  (Latiu).  From 
God,  uot  from  mere  luck  ;  [I  attribute 
it]  to  God  and  not  to  blind  chance. 

Deo  Volente,  contracted  into  D.  V. 
(Latin).  God  being  willing  ;  by  God's 
will. 

De'odaxd  means  something  "  given 
to  God"  {(Ico-dantUiiii).  This  was  the 
case  when  a  man  met  with  his  death 
through  injuries  inflicted  by  some  chat- 
tel, as  by  the  fall  of  a  ladder,  the  toss  of 
a  bull,  or  the  kick  of  a  horse.  In  such 
cases  the  cause  of  death  was  sold,  and 
the  proceeds  given  to  the  Church.  The 
custom  was  based  on  the  doctrine  of 
purgatory.  As  the  person  was  sent  to 
his  account  without  the  sacrament  of 
extreme  unction,  the  money  thus  raised 
served  to  jiay  for  masses  for  his  repose. 
Deodands  were  abolished  September  1st, 
1846. 

Depart.  To  part  thoroughly ;  to 
separate  effectually.  The  marriage  ser- 
vice in  the  ancient  prayer-books  had 
"  till  death  us  depart,"  or  "  till  alimony 
or  death  us  departs,"  a  sentence  which 
has  been  corrupted  into  "till  death  us 
do  part." 

"  Befdve  tbcy  settle  haiuls  and  liearts, 
Till  alimony  or  (loath  deiarts." 

Butler :  Iludibrus.  iii.  3. 

Department.  France  is  divided 
into  departments,  as  Great  Britain  and 
Ireland  are  divided  into  counties  or 
shires.  From  17(38  it  was  divided  into 
goccrnmcutf!,  of  which  thirty-two  were 
grand  and  eight  2)ctit.  In  1790,  by  a 
decree  of  the  Constituent  Assembly,  it 
was  mapped  out  de  novo  into  eighty- 
three  departments.  In  1804  the  number 
of  departments  was  increased  to  107,  and 
in  1812  to  130.  In  1815  the  territory 
was  reduced  to  eighty-six  departments, 
and  coutinued  so  till  1860,  when  Savoy 
and  Nice  were  added.  The  present 
number  is  eighty-seven. 

Dependence.  An  existing  quarrel. 
(A  term  used  among  swordsmen.) 

"  Let  lis  pause  .  .  .  until  I  give  you  my  opinion 
on  tliis  ilepenilence  .  .  .  for  if  we  coolly  examine 
tlie  state  of  ouv  dependence,  we  may  the  better 
apprehend  whether  the  sisters  three  have  doomed 
one  of  us  to  expiate  the  same  with  <mr  hlood."— 
Uly  ir.  Scott:  Tlic  Monastery,  chap.  xxi. 

De'pinges  (2  syl.)  or  Dcep'lngs.  A 
breadth  of  netting  to  b^e  sewed  on  a 
hdddij  (net)  to  make  it  sufficiently  large. 
S'ometimes  the  breadth  is  called  a  depth, 
and  the  act  of  sewing  one  de^jth  on 
another  is  called  deepening  the  net.  In 
1574  the  Dutch    settlers  at  Yarmouth 


were  required  "  to  provide  themselves 
with  twine  and  depinges  in  foreign 
places." 

Deputa'tions.  The  year  of  depiila- 
t'wns.  The  eighth  of  the  Hedj'rah, 
after  Mahomet's  victory  over  the  Arabs 
near  Taif,  when  deputations  from  all 
jjarts  flocked  to  do  him  homage. 

Depute  (2  sjl.).  To  depute  means 
to  prune  or  cut  off  a  part ;  deputation 
is  the  part  cut  oft'.  A  deinitation  is  a 
slip   cut    oft"    to    represent    the    whole. 

(Latin,  depit'to.) 

Derbend  \_iron'].  A  town  on  the 
Caspian,  commamling  the  coast  road. 
D'Herbelot  says  :  "  Les  Turcs  appellent 
cette  ville  '  Demir  Capi '  (porte  de  fer)  ; 
ce  sont  les  Caspicc  Foriec  des  anciens." 
"  Beyond  the  Caspian's  iron  Bales." 

Muure:  Fire  Wor.fliippcrs. 

Derby  Stakes.  Started  by  Edward 
Snath  Stanley,  the  twelfth  Earl  of  Derby, 
in  1780,  the  year  after  his  establishment 
of  the  Oaks  stakes  ('/.''•). 

The  Ik'rbg  Dag  is  the  day  wiien  the 
Derby  stakes  are  run  for  ;  it  is  the  second 
Wednesday  of  the  great  Epsom  Spring 
Meeting,  in  May. 

The  JJerhg  Dag. 

V  The  Derby,  the  Oaks,  and  the  St. 
Leger  are  called  "The  Classic  Races." 
The  Oaks  is  the  classic  race  for  fillies 
only,  three  years'  old  (£1,000)  ;  the 
Derby  (Darby)  for  colts  and  tillies  three 
years'  old  ;  the  St.  Leger  for  colts  and 
fillies,  those  which  have  run  in  the  Oaks 
or  Derby  being  eligible. 

Derive  (2  syl.)  means  "back  to  its 
channel  or  source  "  (Latin,  de  rlvo). 
The  Latiu  ri  vus  (a  river)  does  not  mean 
the  stream  or  current,  but  the  source 
whence  it  flows,  or  the  channel  tluough 
wliich  it  runs.  As  Ulpian  says,  '■'■Fons 
sive  lufits  2)er  longitu'dlnem  depres.sus,  quo 
(tqaa  deetirrat.^' 

Dernier  Ressort  (French).  A  last 
resource. 

Der'rick.  A  hangman  ;  a  temporary 
crane  to  remove  goods  from  the  hold  of 
a  vessel.  So  called  from  Derrick,  the 
Tyburn  hangman  early  in  the  seven- 
teenth century,  who  for  more  than  a 
hundred  years  gave  his  name  to  gibbets. 
{See  Hangman.) 

"  He  rides  circuit  with  the  devil,  and  Derrick 
must  he  his  host,  and  Tyhorne  the  inn  at  which 
he  will  light." — BcUnum  of  Loudon,  1616. 

DerWentwa'ter.  Lord  Dcricent- 
tenter'' s  tights.  The  Auro'ra  borea'lis  ; 
so  called  from  James,  Earl  of  Derwent- 
water, beheaded  for  rebellion  February 


Desdemoua 


3^- 


Devil 


24th,  1716.  It  is  said  that  the  northern 
lights  were  unusually  brilliant  on  that 
night. 

Desdemo'na  (in  Shakespeare's 
Otht'll(j).  Daughter  of  Brabantio.  She 
fell  in  love  with  Othello,  and  eloped 
with  him.  lago,  acting  on  the  jealous 
temper  of  the  Moor,  made  him  believe 
that  his  wife  had  an  intrigue  with  Cassio, 
and  in  confirmation  of  this  statement 
told  the  Moor  that  she  had  given  Cassio 
a  pocket-handkerchief,  the  fact  being 
that  lago's  wife,  to  gratify  her  husband, 
had  purloined  it.  Othello  asked  his 
bride  for  it,  but  she  was  unable  to  find 
it ;  whereupon  the  Moor  murdered  her 
and  then  stabbed  himself. 

"  She  .  .  .  was  ready  to  listen  and  weep,  like 
Desdemoua,  at  the  stories  of  his  dangers  aud 
campaigns."— TAacfce)-((  I/. 

Desmas.    {See  Dysmas.) 

Despair.  The  Giant  Bespair,  in 
Bunyau's  Fihjrini's  Froyress,  lived  in 
"  Doubting  Castle." 

Dessert'  means  simply  the  cloth  re- 
moved (French,  desserrir,  to  clear  the 
clotli)  ;  and  dessert  is  that  which  comes 
after  the  cloth  is  removed. 

Destruction.  Prince  of  Desfriwtion. 
Tamerlane  or  Timour  the  Tartar  (1335, 

1360- UOo.) 

Destructives  (The),  as  a  political 
term,  arose  in  1832. 

"The  Times  newspaper,  hitherto  the  most  effec- 
tive advocate  of  the  [Reform]  l)ill,  has  been  ob- 
liKed  to  designate  those  whom  it  formerly  glo- 
rified as  Radicals,  by  the  more  appropriate  and 
emphatic  title  of  the  Destructives."— Quarteilu 
Itcview  (Dec,  1832,  p.  545.) 

Des'ultory.  Those  who  rode  two  or 
more  horses  in  the  circus  of  Rome,  and 
used  to  leap  from  one  to  the  other,  were 
called  desulto  res  ;  hence  desultor  came  in 
Latin  to  mean  one  inconstant,  or  who 
went  from  one  thing  to  another ;  and 
desultory  means  after  the  manner  of  a 
desultor. 

Detest'  is  simply  to  witness  against. 
(Latin,  de-testor.) 

Deucalion,  after  the  Deluge,  was 
ordered  to  cast  behind  him  the  bonex  of 
/lis  inolhcr  {i.e.  the  stones  of  mother 
earth) .  Those  thrown  by  Deucalion  be- 
came men,  and  those  thrown  by  liis  wife, 
Pyrrha,  became  women.  For  the  inter- 
change between  Aao?  (people),  and  Aaas 
(a  stone),  see  Findar  :  Oli/inpic  Games, 
vs..  66. 

Deucalion^ s  flood .  According  to  Greek 
mythology,  Deucalion  was  a  king  of 
Thessaly,    in    whose    reign    the    whole 


world  was  covered  with  a  deluge  in  con- 
sequence of  the  great  impiety  of  man. 
{Jiee  Deluges.) 

Deuce.  The  Kelts  called  wood-demons 
diis.     (Compare  the  Latin  deus.') 

"In  the  popular  mythology  both  of  the  Kelts 
and  Teutons  there  were  certain  hairy  wood- 
demons,  called  by  the  former  dus.  and  by  the 
latter  scrat  (?  scratz).  Our  common  names  of 
'Deuce'  aud  '  Old  .Scratch'  are  pliiuly  derived 
from  these."— £oi(!e(i ;  Among  mij  Books  (Witcli- 
craft),  p.  109. 

It  played  the  deuce  ivith  me.  It  made 
me  very  ill ;  it  disagreed  with  nie ;  it 
almost  ruined  me. 

Tlie  deuce  is  in  yon.  You  are  a  very 
demon. 

Fence  take  you.  Get  awaj' !  you 
annoy  me. 

What  the  di'uce  is  the  matter  ?  What 
in  the  world  is  amiss  ? 

Deuce-ace.  A  throw  of  two  dice, 
one  sliowuig  one  spot  and  the  other 
showing  tiro  spots. 

Deuce  of  Cards  {Tht).  Tlio  two 
(French,  deux).  Tlie  three  is  called 
"Tray"  (French,  trois ;  Latin,  tres). 

"A  gentleman  being  puncheil  by  a  butcher's 
tray,  exclaimed,  'Deuce  take  the  tray.'  '  Well,' 
said  the  boy, '  I  don't  know  how  the  deuce  is  to 
take  the  tray.'  " — Jest  Book. 

Deus  (2  syl.).  Feus  e.v  ma' china.  The 
intervention  of  a  god,  or  some  unlikely 
event,  in  order  to  extricate  from  diili- 
culties  in  which  a  clumsy  author  has 
involved  himself ;  any  forced  incident, 
such  as  the  arrival  of  a  rich  uncle  from 
the  Indie's  to  helj)  a  young  couple  in 
their  pecuniary  embarrassments.  Liter- 
ally, it  means  "a  god  (let  down  upon 
the  stage  or  flying  in  the  air)  by  ma- 
chinery." 

De'va's  Vale.  The  valley  of  the 
river  Dee  or  Deva,  in  Cheshire,  cele- 
brated for  its  pastures  and  dairy  pro- 
duce. 

"  He  chose  a  farm  in  Deva's  vale, 
"Where  his  long  alleys  peeped  upon  the  main." 
Thomson  :  Castle  of  Indolence,  canto  ii. 

Development.     {See  Evolution.) 

Devil.  Eepreseuted  with  a  cloven 
foot,  because  by  the  Rabbinical  writers 
he  is  called  seirissiin  (a  goat).  As  the 
goat  is  a  type  of  uucleanness,  the  iirince 
of  unclean  spirits  is  aptly  represented 
under  this  emblem. 

Devil  among  the  Tailors  (IVic).  On 

Dowton's  benefit  at  the  Haymarket, 
some  7,000  journeymen  tailors  congre- 
gated in  and  around  the  theatre  to  pre- 
vent a  burlesque  called  The  Tailors :  a 
Trayedy  for  Warm  Weather,  which  they 


Devil 


346 


Devil 


considered  insulting  to  the  trade.  Fair- 
burn's  edition  of  this  play  is  headed 
TJw  Devil  among  the  Tailors,  and 
contains  an  account  of  this  fracas.  (See 
also  B'lograplna  Dramatiea,  article  Tai- 
LOES.)     There  is  a  Scotch  reel  so  called. 

Devil  and  Bag  o' Nails  {Tlie).  The 
public-house  by  Buckingham  Gate  was 
so  called,  but  the  sign  was  The  Blacka- 
moor''s  Head  and  tlie  Woolpack.  {Remark- 
able Trials,  ii.  p.  14;  1765.) 

Devil  and  Dr.  Faustus  ( The) .  Faust 
was  the  first  printer  of  Bibles,  and 
issued  a  large  number  in  imitation  of 
those  sold  as  manuscripts.  These  he 
passed  off  in  Paris  as  genuine,  and  sold 
for  sixty  crowns  apiece,  the  usual  price 
being  fifve  hundred  crowms.  The  uni- 
formity of  the  books,  their  rapid  supply, 
and  their  unusual  cheapness  excited 
astonishment.  Information  was  laid 
against  him  for  magic,  and,  in  searching 
his  lodgings,  the  brilliant  red  ink  with 
which  his  copies  were  adorned  was  de- 
clared to  be  his  blood.  He  was  charged 
with  dealings  with  the  Devil,  and  con- 
demned to  be  biu^t  alive.  To  save  him- 
self, he  revealed  his  secret  to  the  Paris 
Parlcmeut,  and  his  invention  became  the 
admiration  of  the  world.  N.B. — Tliis 
tradition  is  not  to  be  accepted  as  history. 

Devil  and  his  Dam  {The).  Either 
the  Devil  and  his  mother,  or  the  Devil 
and  his  tcife.  Numerous  quotations  may 
be  adduced  in  support  of  either  of  these 
interpretations.  Shakespeare  uses  the 
phrase  six  times,  and  in  £^ing  John  (ii.  1) 
dam  evidently  means  mother  ;  thus  Con- 
stance says  that  her  son  Arthur  is  as  like 
his  father  as  the  Devil  is  like  his  dam 
{mother) ;  and  in  Titus  Andronicus  Ta- 
mora  is  called  the  "dam"  of  a  black 
child.  We  also  read  of  the  Devil's 
daughter  and  the  Devil's  son. 

In  many  mythologies  the  Devil  is  sup- 
posed to  be  an  animal :  Thus  in  Cazotte's 
Uialde  Amoiireiix  he  is  sl  caiiud  ;  the  Irish 
and  others  call  him  a  black  cat ;  the  Jews 
speak  of  him  as  a  dragon  (which  idea  is 
carried  out  in  our  George  and  the  Dra- 
gon) ;  the  Santous  of  Japan  call  him  a 
species  of /o.r;  others  say  he  is  a  goat  ; 
and  Dante  associates  him  with  dragons, 
sirine,  and  dogs.  In  all  which  cases  dam 
for  mother  is  not  inappropriate. 

On  the  other  liand,  dam  for  leman  or 
wife  has  good  su2:)port.  We  are  told  that 
Lilith  was  the  wife  of  Adam,  but  was 
such  a  vixeu  that  Adam  could  not  live  with 
her,  and  she  became  the  Devil's  dam. 
We  also  read  that  Belphegor  "  came  to 
earth  to  seek  him  out  a  dam." 


V  As  women  when  they  go  wrong 
are  for  the  most  part  worse  than  the 
other  sex,  the  phi-ase  at  the  head  of  this 
article  means  the  Devil  and  something 
worse. 

Devil  and  the  Deep  Sea  {Between 
the).  Between  Scylla  and  Charybdis ; 
between  two  evils,  each  equally  hazard- 
ous. The  allusion  seems  to  be  to  the 
herd  of  swine  and  the  devils  called 
Legion. 

"  In  the  matter  of  rassing  fi-nin  ono  part  of  the 
vessel  to  another  when  she  was  rolling,  we  were 
indeed  between  the  devil  and  the  deep  sea."— 
Kinitiriitli  Ci'iitiinj,  April,  Is'.il,  p.  064. 

Devil  and  Tom  Walker  {The).    An 

American  proverb,  iised  as  a  caution 
to  usurers.  Tom  Walker  was  a  poor, 
miserly  man,  born  at  Massachusetts  in 
1727,  and  it  is  said  that  he  sold  himself 
to  the  Devil  for  wealth.  Be  this  as  it 
may,  Tom  suddenly  became  very  lich, 
and  opened  a  counting-house  at  Boston 
during  the  money  panic  which  pre- 
vailed in  the  time  of  Governor  Belcher. 
By  usury  he  grew  richer  and  richer ; 
but  one  day,  as  he  was  foreclosing  a 
mortgage  with  a  poor  land-jobber,  a 
black  man  on  a  black  horse  knocked  at 
the  office  door.  Tom  went  to  open  it, 
and  was  never  seen  again.  Of  course 
the  good  people  of  Boston  searched  his 
office,  but  all  his  coffers  were  found 
empty ;  and  during  the  night  his  house 
caught  tire  and  was  burnt  to  the  ground. 
{Washington  Irving  :  Tales  of  a  Travel- 
ler.) 

Devil  catch  the  Hindmost  {The). 
In  Scotland  (?  Salamanca)  it  is  said  when 
a  class  of  students  have  made  a  certain 
progress  in  their  mystic  studies,  they  are 
obliged  to  run  through  a  subterranean 
hall,  aud  the  last  man  is  seized  by  the 
devil,  and  becomes  his  imp. 

Devil  in  Dublin  City  {The).  The 
Scandinavian  form  of  Dublin  w'smDircl- 
?«[«],  and  the  Latin  Diiblinia.  (See 
Notes  and  Queries,  April  9th,  1881. 
p.  296,  for  another  explanation.) 

"  Is  just  as  true's  the  deil's  in  hell 
Or  Dublin  city." 

Burns:  Death  and  Dr.  Hornhoolc. 

Devil  looking  Over  Lincoln  (The). 
Sir  W.  Scott  in  his  Keuihrorth  has, 
"  Like  the  Devil  looking  over  Lincoln." 
A  corresiioudent  of  Notes  and  Queries, 
Sei^tember  10th,  1892,  says  — 

"The  famous  devil  that  used  to  overlook 
Lincoln  College,  in  Oxford,  was  taken  down 
(Wednesday,  September  15th,  17.31),  having  al)OUl; 
two  years  since  [previivusly]  lost  his  head  in  a 
sti)nh."—Gcntlcini(ii's  Mayazine,  ItiSl,  p.  40J. 

V  We  have  other  similar  phrases,  as 
"The  devil  looking  over  Diubam." 


Devil 


347 


Devil 


Devil  loves  Holy  Water  {As  tlie). 
That  is,  uot  at  all.  The  Roman  Catholics 
teacli  that  holy  water  drives  away  the 
De\'il.  The  Latin  proverb  is,  "  Sicut  sus 
(imar'tci)utm  amaV  (as  swine  love  mar- 
joram). Lucretius,  vi.  974,  says  "  ainari- 
cinum  fiifjitat  hhs." 

Devil-may-care  (A).  A  reckless 
fellow. 

Devil  must  be  Striking  (The) 
(German).  Said  when  it  thunders. 
The  old  Norse  JJoiiar  means  Thor,  equal 
to  Jupiter,  the  god  of  thunder,  and 
ihiiDur  is  the  GeiTnan  for  thunder  or 
Devil,  as  may  be  seen  in  the  expression, 
' '  The  runaway  goose  is  gone  to  the 
Devil"  {donncr). 

Devil  on  the  Neck  {A) .  An  instru- 
ment of  torture  used  by  persecuting 
papists.  It  was  an  iron  winch  wliich 
forced  a  man's  neck  and  legs  together. 

Devil  rides  on  a  Fiddlestick  (T/ie). 
Much  ado  about  nothing.  Beaumont 
and  Fletcher,  Shakespeare,  and  others, 
use  the  phrase.  "  Fiddlesticks  !  "  as  an 
exclamation,  means  rubbish  !  nonsense  ! 
When  the  piince  and  his  merry  com- 
panions are  at  the  Boar''s  Head,  first 
Bardolph  rushes  in  to  warn  them  that 
the  sheriff's  officers  are  at  hand,  and  anon 
enters  the  hostess  to  jmt  her  guests  on 
their  guard.  But  the  prince  says, 
"  Here's  a  devil  of  a  row  to  make  about 
a  trifle  "  (or  ' '  The  devil  rides  on  a  fiddle- 
stick") (1  Henry  IV.,  ii.  2),  and 
hiding  some  of  his  companions,  he 
stoutly  faces  the  sherili's  ofiicers  and 
browbeats  them. 

Devil  Sick  would  be  a  Monk  {The). 

"  Vcemon  languebut,  monachus  bnnus  essevolebat; 
Sed_cuM  couvaluit,  7>iariet  ut  antefuit." 
"  When  tlie  Devil  was  sick,  the  devil  a  monk 
would  he  ; 
When  the  Devil  got  well,  the  devil  a  monk  was 
he." 

Said  of  those  persons  who  in  times 
of  sickness  or  danger  make  pious  resolu- 
tions, but  forget  them  when  danger  is 
past  and  health  recovered. 

Devil  to  Pay  and  no  Pitch  Hot 

(T/ic).  The  "  devil  "  is  a  seam  between 
the  garboard-strake  and  the  keel,  and 
to  "pay"  is  to  cover  with  pitch.  In 
former  times,  when  vessels  were  often 
careened  for  repairs,  it  was  difficult  to 
calk  and  pay  this  seam  before  the  tide 
tm'ued.  Hence  the  locution,  the  shij)  is 
careened,  the  devU  is  exposed,  but  there 
is  no  pitch  hot  ready,  and  the  tide  will 
turn  before  the  work  can  be  done. 
(French,  payer,  from  paLv,  po'ix,  pitch.) 


V  The  Devil  to  Pay  is  the  name  of  a 
farce  by  Jobson  and  Nelly. 

Here^s  the  very  devil  to  pay.  Is  used 
in  quite  another  sense,  meaning  :  Here's 
a  pretty  kettle  of  fish.  I'm  in  a  pretty 
mess  ;  this  is  confusion  worse  confounded. 

Proverbial  Phrases. 

Cheatiny  the  devil.  Mincing  an  oath  ; 
doing  evil  for  gain,  and  giving  part  of 
the  profits  to  the  Church,  etc.  It  is  by 
no  means  unusual  in  monkish  traditions. 
Thus  the  "Devil's  Bridge"  is  a  single 
arch  over  a  cataract.  It  is  said  that 
his  Satanic  Majesty  had  knocked  down 
several  bridges,  but  promised  the  abbot, 
Giraldus  of  Einsiedel,  to  let  this  one 
stand,  provided  the  abbot  would  con- 
sign to  him  the  first  living  thing  that 
crossed  it.  When  the  bridge  was  finished, 
the  abbot  threw  across  it  a  loaf  of  bread, 
which  a  hungry  dog  ran  after,  and  "the 
rocks  re-echoed  with  peals  of  laughter 
to  see  the  Devil  thus  defeated."  {Imhj- 
fellow  :  Golden  Leyend,  v.) 

V  The  bridge  referred  to  by  Long- 
fellow is  that  over  the  Fall  of  the  Eeuss, 
in  the  canton  of  the  Uri,  Switzerland. 

Eabelais  says  that  a  farmer  once  bar- 
gained with  the  Devil  for  each  to  have 
on  alternate  years  what  grew  under  and 
over  the  soil.  The  canny  farmer  sowed 
carrots  and  turnips  when  it  was  his  turn 
to  have  the  imder-soil  share,  and  wheat 
and  barley  the  year  following.  {I'anta- 
yruel,  book  iv.  chap,  xlvi.) 

Give  the  devil  his  due.  Give  even  a 
bad  man  or  one  hated  like  the  devil  the 
credit  he  deserves. 

Gone  to  the  devil.  To  ruin.  The 
Devil  and  St.  Dimstan  was  the  sign 
of  a  public  house.  No.  2,  Fleet  Street,  at 
one  time  much  frequented  by  lawj'ers. 

"Into  the  Devil  Tavern  three  booted  trooncrs 
strode." 

Pull  devil,  pull  baker.  Lie,  cheat, 
and  wrangle  away,  for  one  is  as  bad  as 
the  other.  (In  this  proverb  baker  is  not 
a  proper  name,  but  the  trade.) 

"  Like  Punch  and  the  Deevil  rugginfr  ahout  the 
Baker  at  the  fair."— ,S'Jr  IK.  Scutt :  Old  Mortality, 
cliaji.  xxxviii. 

Talk  of  the  devil  and  he's  sure  to  eome. 
Said  of  a  person  who  has  been  the  sub- 
ject of  conversation,  and  who  unex- 
pectedly makes  his  appearance.  An 
older  proverb  still  is,  "Talk  of  the  Dole 
and  he'll  put  out  his  horns  ;  "  but  the 
modern  euphemism  is,  "Talk  of  an 
angel  and  you'll  see  its  wings."  If 
"from  the  fulness  of  the  heart  the 
mouth  speaketh,"  their  hearts  must  be 
full  of  the  evil  one  who  talk  about  him, 


Devil 


348 


Devil's 


aud  if  the  heart  is  full  of  the  devil  he 
cannot  be  far  off. 

"  Fiiitliwiib  tlie  devil  did  apiiftir, 
For  name  him,  and  he's  always  near." 

Prior :  Hans  Carvel. 

To  hold  a  candle  to  the  devil  is  to 
abet  an  evildoer  out  of  fawning  fear. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  story  of  an  old 
woman  who  set  one  wax  taper  before  the 
image  of  St.  Michael,  and  another  before 
the  Devil  whom  he  was  trampling  under 
foot.  Being  reproved  for  paying  such 
honour  to  Satan,  she  naively  replied : 
"Ye  see,  your  honour,  it  is  quite  un- 
certain which  place  I  sliall  go  to  at  last, 
and  sure  you  will  not  blame  a  poor 
woman  for  securing  a  friend  in  each." 

To  kindle  a  fire  for  the  devil  is  to  offer 
sacrifice,  to  do  what  is  really  sinful, 
under  the  delusion  that  you  are  doing 
God  service. 

To  plaij  the  very  devil  trith  [the 
inalte}-].  To  so  muddle  and  mar  it  as  to 
spoil  it  utterly. 

irhru  the  devil  is  blind.  Never.  Re- 
ferring to  the  utter  absence  of  all  dis- 
loyalty aud  evil. 

"Ay,  Till,  that  will  I.e  [i.f.  all  will  l.o  true  and 
loyal]  when  the  de'il  is  lilind  ;  and  his  e'en's  no 
sair  yet."'— We  ir.  Scutt:  (luv  Mavnering  (Dandie 
Dinniont  to  Tib  Muniiis),  chap.  xxii. 

Devil  {A),  in  legal  parlance,  is  a 
leader's  fag  who  gets  up  the  facts  of  a 
brief,  with  the  laws  bearing  on  it,  and 
ananges  everything  for  the  pleader  in 
methodical  order. 

These  juniors  liave  surplus  briefs 
handed  to  them  by  their  seniors.  A 
good  fag  is  a  good  devil  and  is  sui'e  to 
get  on. 

The  Attorneii-GeneraVs  devils  are  the 
Counsel  of  the  Treasury,  who  not  un- 
frequently  get  promoted  to  the  bench. 

A  printer's  devil.  Formerly,  the  boy 
who  took  the  printed  sheets  from  the 
tympan  of  the  press.  Old  Moxon  says : 
"They  do  commonly  so  black  aud  be- 
daub themselves  that  the  workmen  do 
jocosely  call  them  devils."  The  errand- 
boy  is  now  so  called.  The  black  slave 
emploj'ed  by  Aldo  Manuzio,  Venetian 
printer,  was  thought  to  be  an  imp.  Hence 
the  following  proclamation  : 

"  I,  Aldo  Maunzio,  printer  to  the  Do.ae^  have 
this  day  made  puldio  exposure  of  the  printer's 
devil.  All  who  think  he  is  not  flesh  aud  lilood 
may  come  and  pinch  him.'— Pjoi-/(i»iot!'o)i  of 
Aldo  ilauuzio,  149(1. 

Hobert  the  Devil,  of  Noi-maudy.  {See 
Egbert  Le  Diable.) 

The  French  Devil.  Jean  Bart,  an  in- 
trepid French  sailor,  bom  at  Dunkirk. 
(1650-1702.) 

iSonof  the  Devil.  Ezzeli'no,  chief  of  the 
Gibelins,  and  Governor  of  Viceuza,  was 


so    called    for    his    infamous    cruelties. 
(r21o-12o9.) 

"  Fierce  Ezelin,  that  most  inhuman  lor<I, 
Who  shall  he  deemed  by  men  the'child  of  hell." 
Rose :  Orlando  Furioso,  iii.  3.". 

The  WJiite  Derilof  Walla'chia.  George 
Castriota  was  so  called  by  the  Turks. 
(1404-14G7.) 

Devil's  Advocate  {The).  In  the 
Catholic  Church  when  a  name  is  sug- 
gested for  canonisation,  some  person  is 
appointed  to  oppose  the  proposition,  and 
is  expected  to  give  reasons  why  it 
.should  not  take  jilace.  This  person  is 
technically  called  Advocdtns  Diaholi. 
Having  said  his  saj',  the  conclave  decides 
the  question. 

Devil's  Apple.    The  mandrake. 

Devil's  Arrows  (Yorkshire).  Three 
remarkable  "  Druid  "  stones  near 
Borouglibridgo,  like  Harold's  Stones,  and 
Ijrobably  marking  some  boundary. 

Devil's  Bird  {The).  The  j'ellow 
bunting  ;  is  so  called  from  its  note,  deil. 

Devil's  Bones.  Dice,  which  are 
made  of  bones  and  lead  to  ruin. 

Devil's  Books.  Playing  cards.  A 
Presbyterian  phrase,  used  in  reproof  of 
the  tenn  King's  Books,  applied  to  a 
pack  of  cards,  from  the  French  livre  des 
(juatrc  rois  (the  book  of  the  four  kings). 
Also  called  the  Devil's  Bible. 

Devil's  Cabinet  ( The).  Beljihego,  the 
Devil's  ambassador  in  France  ;  Hutgin, 
in  Italy ;  Belial,  in  Turkey ;  Tharung, 
in  Spain  ;  aud  Martinet,  in  Switzerland. 
His  grand  abuoner  is  Dagon  ;  chief  of 
the  eunuchs  is  Succor  Benoth  ;  banker 
is  Asmodeus  ;  theatrical  manager  is 
Kobal ;  master  of  ceremonies,  Verdelet ; 
court  fool  is  Nybbas.  ( Victor  Ila//o  : 
Toilers  of  the  Sea.) 

Devil's  Candle.  So  the  Aiabs  call 
the  mandrake,  from  its  shining  appear- 
ance at  night.     {liichardson.) 

"  Those  hellish  fires  that  light 
The  mandrake's  charnel  leaves  at  night." 

T.  Moore :  Fire  Worsk  ippers. 

Devil's  Current  {Thr).  Part  of  the 
ciurent  of  the  Bosjihorus  is  so  called,  from 
its  great  rapidity. 

Devil's  Daughter's  Portion  {The). 
The  saying  is — ■ 

"  Deal,  Dover,  and  Harwich, 
The  devil  g.ive  with  his  daughter  in  marriage," 

because  of  the  scandalous  impositions 
practised  in  these  seaj)orts  on  sailors  and 
occasional  visitors.  {Grose:  Classical 
Dictionary,  etc.) 


Devil's  Den 


349 


Dew-beaters 


Devil's  Den.  A  cromlech  iu  a  valley, 
near  Marlborough.  It  now  consists  of 
two  large  uprights  and  an  imjiost.  The 
tlurd  upright  has  fallen.  Some  of  the 
farm  lahourers,  a  few  years  ago,  fastened 
a  team  of  horses  to  the  impost,  and  tried, 
but  without  effect,  to  drag  it  down. 

Devil's  Dust.  Old  rags  torn  up  by 
a  machhie  called  the  "  devil,"  and  made 
into  shoddy  by  gum  and  pressure.  Mr. 
Ferrand  brought  the  subject  before  Par- 
liament, March  4th,  1842.  It  is  so  called 
from  the  dishonesty  and  falsehood  which 
it  covers.     {Latimer's  iScniwtis.) 

Devil's  Dyke  (27; <■).  A  ravine  in  the 
South  Downs,  Brighton.  The  legend  is, 
that  St.  Cuthman,  walking  on  the  downs, 
Illumed  himself  on  having  Christianised 
the  surrounding  country,  and  having 
built  a  nunnery  where  the  dyke-house 
now  stands.  Presently  the  Devil  ajipears 
and  tells  liim  all  his  labour  is  vain,  for 
he  would  swamp  the  Vvhole  country 
before  morning.  St.  Cuthman  went 
to  the  nunnery  and  told  the  abbess  to 
keep  the  sisters  in  prayer  till  after  mid- 
night, and  then  illuminate  the  windows. 
The  Devil  came  at  sunset  with  mattock 
and  spade,  and  began  cutting  a  dyke 
into  the  sea,  but  was  seized  with  rheu- 
matic pains  all  over  the  body.  He  flung 
down  his  mattock  and  spade,  and  the 
cocks,  mistaking  the  illuminated  win- 
dows for  sunrise,  began  to  crow  ;  where- 
upon the  Devil  fled  in  alarm,  leaving  his 
work  not  half  done. 

Devil's  Four-Poster  {The).  A  hand 
at  whist  with  foiu'  clubs.  It  is  said  that 
such  a  hand  is  never  a  winning  one. 

Devil's  Frying-pan  {The).  A  Corn- 
ish tiu-miue  worked  by  the  Eomans. 

Devil's  Livery  {The).  Black  and 
yellow.  Black  for  death,  yellow  for 
quarantine. 

Devil's  Luck  {The).  Astounding 
good  luck.  Persons  alwaj's  lucky  were 
thought  at  one  time  to  have  compounded 
with  the  Devil. 

"  You  won't  have  to  ray  his  annuity  very  lonj-' ; 
you  have  the  Devil's  luck  in  bargains,  alv/ays."— 
Dk-kcns. 

Devil's  Mass  {The).  Swearing  at 
everybody  and  everything. 

"  Whin  a  had  egg  is  shut  av  the  army,  he  says 
the  devil's  mass  ....  an'  manes  svearin'  at  ivry- 
thiug,  from  the  commandher-in-chief  down  to  the 
room-corp'ril."— ■S'oW!C)-s  Three,  p.  U5. 

Devil's  Nostrils  {The).  Two  vast 
caverns  separated  by  a  huge  pillar  of 
natural  rock  in  the  mainland  of  the 
Zetland  Islands.  (See  The  I'irate,  chap, 
xxii.) 


Devil's  O'wn.  (Connaught  Boys.) 
The  88th  Foot.  So  called  by  General 
Picton  from,  their  bravery  in  the  Penin- 
sular War,  1809-1814. 

Applied  also  to  the  Inns  of  Court 
Volunteers,  the  members  of  v.fhich  are 
lawyers. 

Devil's  Paternoster  {To  my  the^. 
To  grumble  ;  to  rail  at  iirovidence. 

Devil's  Snuff-box  {The).  A  puff- 
ball  ;  a  fungus  full  of  dust ;  one  of  the 
genus  Lycoperdon. 

Devil's  Tattoo  {TIic).  Tapping  on 
the  table  with  one's  finger  a  wearisome 
number  of  times  ;  tapping  on  the  floor 
with  one's  foot  in  a  similar  manner ; 
repeating  any  sound  with  wearisome 
pertinacity,  giving  those  who  hear  the 
"blue  devils  "  or  the  "  fidgets." 

Devil's  Throat  {Thi).  Cromer  Bay. 
So  called  from  its  danger  to  navigation. 

Devils  (in  Dante's  Divine  Comedy)  : 

AUchimi.    (The  allurer.) 

Borboriccid.    (The  malicious.) 

Calcobrina,    (The  grace-scorner.) 

C(iy'ii(iz::ii.    (The  suarler.) 

Cirittto  Sannuto.    (The  tusked  hoar.) 

Diainiiijtiazzo.    (The  fell  dragon.) 

FarfincUo.    (The  scandalmonger.) 

Grafflcane.    (The  doggish.) 

Libicucco.    (The  ill-temjiered.) 

Bubictnite.    (The  red  with  rage.) 

.'<ciirmi{ilione.    (The  baneful.) 

The  blue  Devils.    The  fidgets  or  megrims. 

Devonshire,  according  to  English 
mythology,  is  a  coiTuption  of  Debon's- 
share.  This  Debou  was  one  of  the 
heroes  who  came  with  Brute  from  Troy. 
One  of  the  giants  that  he  slew  in  the 
south  coasts  of  England  was  Coulin, 
whom  he  chased  to  a  vast  pit  eight 
leagues  across.  The  monster  trying  to 
leap  this  i^it,  fell  backwards,  and  lost  his 
life  in  the  chasm.  When  Brutus  allotted 
out  the  island,  this  j)ortion  became 
Debon's-share. 

"  And  eke  that  ample  )iit,  yet  far  renowned 
For  the  large  leap  which  Debon  did  compell 

Coulin  to  make,  bemg  eight  lugs  of  grownd. 
Into  the  which  retouriiing  back  he  fell  .  .  . 

In  mede  of  these  great  conquests  by  them  got 
C'ori'neus  had  that  iirovince  utmost  west  .  .  . 

And  Debon's  share  was  that  is  Devonshire." 

Sjieiiser :  Fverie  Queeiic,  book  ii.  canto  x.  11,  12. 

Devonshire  Poet.  O.  Jones,  a 
journeyman  wool-comber,  who  lived  at 
the  close  of  the  18th  century.  Edward 
Capern,  called  "  The  rural  Postman  of 
Bideford"  (bom  1819),  and  John  Gay, 
author  of  the  Ber/(/ar''8  Opera.,  etc.  (1688- 
1732),  of  Barnstaple  (Devonshire). 

Dew-beaters.  The  feet ;  shoes  to 
resist  the  wet. 

"  Hold  out  your  dew-beaters  till  I  take  off  the 
darbies  [iron  shoes  or  fetters]."— PereriJ  of  the 
Peak. 


De^?v-bit 


350 


Diamond  Jousts 


Dew-bit  (A).  A  snack  before  break- 
fast. 

Dew-drink.  A  draught  before  break- 
fast. In  harvest  the  men  are  allowed,  iu 
some  counties,  a  diink  of  beer  before 
they  begin  work. 

Dexterity  means  r'lght-hnndcd  skill 
(Latin,  dcxtvr,  the  right  hand).  "  Awk- 
ward "  {n-v.')  means  Icftrhandcd  ;  gauche 
is  the  French,  and  nii/isfrr  the  Latin  for 
the  left  hand.  Certaiidy  the  German 
left-handed  marriages  are  sinister  ones. 

Dgellabae'an.  The  Persian  era. 
Dgclla  Eddin,  son  of  Togrul  Beg,  ap- 
pointed eight  astronomers  to  reform  the 
calendar.  The  era  began  a.d.  107o,  and 
is  followed  to  this  day. 

Dhul'dul.     {Si'e  Hoese.) 

Diable  (Le).  Olivier  Ledain,  the 
tool  of  Louis  XL,  and  once  the  king's 
barber.  So  called  because  he  was  as 
much  feared  as  his  Satanic  Majesty,  and 
even  more  disliked.     (Hanged  1484.) 

Mobert  le  JJiahlc.  Meyerbeer's  grand 
opera.     {See  Egbert.) 

Di'adem  meant,  originally,  a  fillet 
wound  round  the  head.  The  diadem  of 
Bacchus  was  a  broad  band,  which  might 
be  unfolded  so  as  to  make  a  veil.  Hier- 
onJ^uus,  king  of  Syracuse  (b.c.  216-215), 
wore  a  diadem.  Constantine  the  Great 
(306-337)  was  the  fii'st  of  the  Roman 
emperors  who  wore  a  diadem.  After 
his  time  it  was  set  with  rows  of  pearls 
and  precious  stones.  (Greek,  dtu-dco, 
to  bind  entirely.) 

Dialectics.  Metaiihysics  ;  the  art 
of  disputation  ;  that  strictly  logical  dis- 
cussion which  leads  to  reliable  results. 
The  product  or  result  is  ideas,  which, 
being  classified,  produce  knowledge ;  but 
all  knowledge  being  of  the  divine  types, 
must  conduce  more  or  less  to  practical 
results  and  good  morals.  (Greek,  dia- 
lec/o,  to  speak  thoroughly.) 

"  Kant  iised  the  word  to  signify  the 
theory  of  fallacies,  and  Hegel  for  that 
concept  which  of  necessity  develops  its 
ojiposite. 

The  following  questions  from  John 
of  Salisbury  are  fail'  specimens  of  the 
Middle-age  subjects  of  discussion : — 

(1)  TVben  a  person  buys  a  whole  cloak,  does  the 
cowl  belong  to  Lis  inircbase  ? 

(2)  Wlieii  a  hog  is  driven  to  market  with  a  rope 
round  its  neck,  does_  the  man  or  the  roie  take 
him  ;•■ 

Di'amond.  A  corruption  of  ada- 
munt.     So  called  because  the  diamond, 


which  cuts  other  substances,  can  be  cut 
or  polished  with  no  substance  but  itself. 
(Greek,  a  dainao,  what  cannot  be  sub- 
dued. Latin,  udatiian,  gen.  adamaiil-is; 
French,  dianuoit.) 

Di'amond  (3  syl.).  Son  of  Ag'ape,  a 
fairy.  He  was  very  strong,  and  foiiglit 
either  on  foot  or  horse  witli  a  battle-axe. 
He  was  slain  iu  single  combat  by  Cani'- 
balo.  (»SV'f  Teiamond.)  (Spenser :  Faerie 
Qacene,  book  iv.) 

A  diamond  of  the  firat  xratcr.  A  man 
of  the  highest  merit.  The  colour  or 
lustre  of  a  pearl  or  diamond  is  called  its 
"water."  One  of  the  "first  water"  is 
one  of  the  best  colour  and  most  brilliant 
lustre.  We  say  also,  "A  man  of  the 
first  water." 

A  rough  diamond.  An  uncultivated 
genius  ;  a  jDerson  of  excellent  parts,  but 
without  society  manners. 

"As  for  Warrington,  that  rough  diamond  had 
not  had  the  jiolish  ol  a  dancing-master,  and  ho 
did  not  know  how  to  waltz." — Thackeray. 

Diamond  cut  diamond.  Cunniikg  out- 
witting cunning ;  a  hard  bargain  over- 
reached. A  diamond  is  so  hard  that  it 
can  only  be  ground  by  diamond  dust,  or 
by  rubbing  one  against  another. 

Diamond  (Newton's  favourite  little 
dog).  One  winter's  morning,  while  at- 
tending early  service  in  Trinity  College, 
Newton  inadvertently  left  Diamond  shut 
up  in  his  room.  On  returning  from 
chapel  he  found  that  the  little  fellow 
had  upset  a  candle  on  his  desk,  by  which 
several  papers  containing  minutes  of 
many  years'  exiieriments,  were  destroyed. 
On  perceiving  this  irreparable  loss,  he 
exclaimed,  "Oh,  Diamond,  Diamond, 
thou  little  kuowest  the  mischief  thou 
hast  done  !  "  {Diffusion  of  Useful  Knoiv- 
ledge :  Life  of  Newton,  p.  25,  col.  2.) 

•."  HuygenSjlG'JJ,  referring  to  this  accident  says: 
"Newtouuni  incidissein  phrenitinabhincanno  ac 
sex  mensibus.  An  ex  nimia  studii  assiduitate,  au 
dolore  infortunii,  quod  in  incendio  laboratoriuni 
chemicuni  ct  scripta  quivdani  amiserat." 

Diamond  Hammer  {A).  A  hammer 
or  pick  for  ' '  whetting ' '  millstones.  The 
diamond  hammer  is  provided  with 
several  sharp-pointed  teeth  to  give  a 
uniform  roughness  to  the  surface  of  the 
stone.  Also  to  a  steel  pick  with  diamond- 
shaped  point  at  each  extremity  to  rccut 
grooves  in  stone. 

Diamond  Jousts  {The).  Joustsinsti- 
tuted  by  King  Arthur,  "who  by  that 
name  had  named  them,  since  a  diamond 
was  the  i^rize."  Ere  he  was  khig,  he 
came  by  accident  to  a  glen  in  Lyonnetsse, 
where  two  brothers  had  met  in  combat. 
Each  was   slain :    but  one  had  worn  a 


Diamond  Necklace 


351 


Diaper 


erown  of  diamonds,  which  Arthur  picked 
up,  aud  when  he  became  king  ofYered 
the  nine  diamonds  as  the  pi-ize  of  nine 
several  jousts,  "  one  every  year,  a  joust 
for  one."  Lancelot  had  won  eight,  aud 
intended  to  present  them  all  to  the 
queen  "  when  all  were  won."  When 
the  knight  laid  them  before  the  queen, 
Guinevere,  in  a  fit  of  jealousy,  tiuug 
them  out  of  the  palace  window  into  the 
river  which  ran  below.  {Idylls  of  the 
Khiff  ;  Elaine.) 

Diamond  Necklace  {The)  (1785). 
A  necklace  presented,  through  Mme. 
de  Laraotte,  by  Cardinal  de  Rohan  (as 
he  supposed)  to  Marie  Antoinette.  The 
cardinal,  a  profligate  churchman,  enter- 
tained a  sort  of  love  passion  for  the 
queen ;  and  the  Countess  de  Lamotte 
induced  him  to  purchase  for  the  cj[ueen, 
for  £85,000,  a  diamond  necklace,  made 
for  Mme.  Dubarry.  The  cardinal  handed 
the  necklace  to  the  countess,  who  sold  it 
to  an  English  jeweller  aud  kejit  the 
money.  When  the  time  of  payment  ar- 
rived Boehmer,  the  jeweller,  sent  his  bill 
in  to  the  queen,  who  denied  all  know- 
ledge of  the  matter.  A  trial  ensued, 
which  lasted  nine  months,  and  created 
immense  scandal. 

Diamond  Sculls  {The),  or  "The 
Diamond  Challenge  Sculls"  of  the  Hen- 
ley Koyal  Regatta,  are  a  pair  of  crossed 
silver  sculls  not  quite  a  foot  in  length, 
surmounted  by  an  imitation  wreath  of 
laurel,  and  having  a  pendant  of  diamonds. 
They  lie  in  a  box  lined  with  velvet,  which 
contains  also  the  names  of  all  the  win- 
ners. The  prize  is  rowed  for  every  year, 
and  the  sculls  pass  from  winner  to  win- 
ner ;  but  each  winner  receives  a  silver 
cup,  which  becomes  his  own  absolute 
property.  Established  1814  by  the  Ro^-al 
Regatta  Committee. 

I)iamoncls.     {See  Black  Diamonds.) 

Dian'a  (3  syl.).  The  temple  of  Diana 
at  Eph'esus,  built  by  DinocMres,  was 
set  on  fire  by  Heros'ti'atos,  for  the  sake 
of  perpetuating  his  name.  The  lonians 
decreed  that  any  one  who  mentioned 
his  name  should  be  put  to  death,  but 
this  very  decree  gave  it  immortality. 
The  temple  was  discovered  in  1872  by 
Mr.  Wood. 

Diana  of  Ephesus.  This  statue, 
we  are  told,  fell  from  heaven.  If  so,  it 
was  an  aerolite  ;  but  Minucius  says  he 
sfiiv  it,  and  that  it  was  a  wooden  statue 
(second  century,  A.D.).  Pliny,  a  con- 
temporary of  Minucius,  tells  us  it  was 
made    of    ebony.       Probably    the    real 


"image"  was  a  meteorite,  and  in  the 
course  of  time  a  wooden  or  ebony  image 
was  substituted. 

V  The  palladium  of  Troy,  the  sacred 
shield  of  the  Romans,  the  shrine  of  our 
Lady  of  Loretto,  aud  other  similar 
religious  objects  of  veneration,  were 
said  to  have  been  sent  from  heaven. 
The  statue  of  CybSle  (3  syl.)  "fell 
from  heaven"  ;  and Elagabrdas,  of  Syro- 
Phoeuicia,  was  a  great  conical  stone 
which  fell  from  heaven. 

Great  is  I)iinia  of  the  Ephesians.  Xo- 
thing  like  leather  ;  self-interest  blinds 
the  eyes.  Deme'trios  was  a  silversmith 
of  Eph'esus,  who  made  gold  and  silver 
shrines  for  the  temple  of  Diana.  When 
Christianity  was  preached  in  the  cit}^, 
and  there  was  danger  of  substituting  the 
simplicity  of  the  Gospel  for  the  gi-andeur 
of  idolatry,  the  silversmiths,  headed  by 
Demetrios,  stirred  the  jieople  to  a  riot, 
and  they  cried  out  with  one  voice  for 
the  space  of  two  hours,  "  Great  is  Diana 
of  the  Ephesians  !  "     (Acts  xix.  2-1-28.) 

Dian's  Worshippers.  Midnight 
revellers.  So  called  because  they  return 
home  by  moonlight.  Dian  means  the 
moon. 

Diano'ra  was  the  wife  of  Gilberto  of 
Friu'li,  but  was  passionately  beloved  by 
Ansaldo.  In  order  to  get  rid  of  his 
importunity,  she  told  him  she  would 
never  grant  his  suit  and  prove  untrue 
till  he  made  her  garden  at  midwinter  as 
full  of  flowers  and  odom-s  as  if  it  were 
midsmnmer.  By  the  aid  of  a  magician, 
Ansaldo  accomplished  this,  and  claimed 
his  reward.  Diano'ra  went  to  meet  him, 
and  told  him  she  had  obeyed  the  com- 
mand of  her  husband  in  so  doing.  An- 
saldo, not  to  be  outdone  in  courtesy, 
released  her  ;  and  Gilberto  became  the 
firm  friend  of  Ansaldo  from  that  day  to 
the  end  of  his  Ufe.  {Boeeaccio  :  Deca- 
meron, day  X.  5.)     {See  Doeigen.) 

Diapason.    Dryden  saj's — 

"  From  banncmy,  from  heavenly  harmony 
The  universal  frame  Ijejj'an  ; 
From  harmonv  to  harmony 

Thro'  all  the  compass  of  the  notes  it  ran, 
The  diapason  closing  full  in  man." 

Song  for  St.  Cecilia's  Day. 

According  to  the  Pythagore'an  system, 
the  world  is  a  piece  of  harmony,  and 
man  the  full  chord, 

Diaper.  A  sort  of  cloth,  a  corrup- 
tion of  D'Ypres,  where  it  is  largely 
manufactured.  Similarly  we  have  calico 
from  Calicut ;  nankeen  fi-om  Kankin ; 
worsted  from  Worsted,  in  Norfolk  ;  and 
half  a  score  other  similar  words.  The 
Fi'ench    diapre,  variegated,    seems    far 


Diavolo 


352 


Dido 


more  likely  to  be  the  source  of  this  word, 
for  diaper  is  cloth  variegated  with 
flowers,  etc.,  like  damask. 

Diav'olo  (Fra).  Michele  Pozza,  an 
insurgent  of  Cala'bria  (17(J0- 1806). 
Scrihe  wrote  a  libretto  on  this  hero  for 
Aiiber. 

Dibs  or  J)ibhs.  Money.  (Comimre 
tipa,  gifts  to  schoolboys ;  and  diobolns. 
Compare  also  rfoi!  with  tot,  jot,  and  yod.) 

The  huckle-bones  of  sheep  used  for 
gambling  purposes  are  called  dibbs  ;  and 
Locke  speaks  of  stones  used  for  the  same 
game,  which  he  calls  dibstones. 

Dicers'  Oaths.  False  as  dicers''  oaths. 
Worthless  or  untrustworthy,  as  when  a 
gambler  swears  never  to  touch  dice 
again.     {Shakespeare:  Ifainkf,m.  4.) 

Dicil'la  (in  Orlando  Fiirioso).  One 
of  Logistilla's  handmaids,  famous  for 
her  chastity. 

Dick.  That  happened  in  the  reign  of 
QiKiH  hick — I.e.  never ;  there  never  was 
a  Queen  Richard. 

Dick's  Hatband.  (Richard  Crom- 
well, 1626-1712.) 

(1)  IMi's  hatband,  ivhich  teas  made  of 
sand.  His  regal  honours  were  "  a  rope 
of  sand." 

(2)  As  fine  as  Dick's  hatband.  The 
cro\^^l  of*  England  would  be  a  very  fine 
thing  for  anyone  to  get. 

(3)  As  queer  as  I)ick''s  hatband.  Few 
things  have  been  more  ridiculous  than 
the  exaltation  and  abdication  of  the 
Protector's  son. 

(4)  As  tight  as  Dick's  hatband.  The 
hatband  of  Richard  Crgmwell  was  the 
crown,  which  was  too  tight  for  him  to 
wear  with  safetj'. 

Dick   =   Richard.       The    diminutive 

"  Dicky  "  is  also  common. 
"  Jockey  of  Norfolk  [Lord  Howard],  lie  not  too 
bold,  ' 
For  Dicky  [or  Dickon],  tby  master,  is  Ijought 
;ind  sold." 

Shiikespeare  :  Skhard  III.,  v.  3. 
(Dicky  or  Dickon  is  Richard  III.) 

Dickens.     {See  Boz.) 

Dickens  is  a  perverted  oath  corrupted 
from  "Nick."     Mrs.  Page  says — 

"  I  cannot  tell  what  the  dickens  his  name  is."— 
Shakespeare :  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  iii. :.'. 

V  The  three  poets  who  express  a 
conflagration  are  "Dickens!  How-itt, 
Burns  !  " 

Dickey  or  Dickg.  A  donkey ;  an- 
ciently called  a  Dick-ass,  now  termed 
Jack-ass.  It  is  a  term  of  endearment, 
as  we  call  a  pet  bird  a  dickg-bird.  The 
ass  is   called   Dick-y   (little   Richard), 


Cuddy  (Uttle  Cuthbert),  Neddy  (little 
Edward),  Jack-ass,  Moke  or  Mike,  etc. 
Dickeg.  The  rumble  behind  a  carriage ; 
also  a  leather  apron,  a  child's  bib,  and 
a  false  shirt  or  front.  All  these  are 
from  the  same  root.  (Dutch,  dekken  ; 
German,  decken  ;  Anglo-Saxon,  thccan  ; 
Latin,  tego,  to  cover.) 

Dicky   (vi),   in  George  III.'s  time, 
meant  a  flannel  petticoat.     It  was  after- 
wards applied  to  what  were  called  false 
shirts — i.e.    a   shirt  front  woni   over  a 
dirty  sliirt,  or  in  lieu  of  a  shirt.     These 
half- shirts  were  first  called  Tommies. 
"  A  hundred  instances  I  soon  could  i)ick  ye— 
Without  a  cap  we  view  the  fair, 
The  l)0siini  heavini?  alto  bare, 
The  hips  ashamed,  forsooth,  to  wear  a  dicky." 
Peter  Pindar :  Lord  Aiifkland's  Trimiijih. 

So  again : — 

"  And  sister  Peg,  and  sister  Jcjan, 
With  scarce  a  ttannel  dicky  on  .  .  .  ." 
Middlesex  lilection,  letter  iv. 
(Hair,  whalebone,  or  metal  vestments,  called 
drcss-inijirovers,  arc  hunt;  on  women's  backs,  as  a 
"  dicky  "  is  huug  on  a  coach  behind.) 

Dicky  Sam.  A  native-bora  inhabi- 
tant of  Liverpool,  as  Tim  Bobbin  is  a 
native  of  Lancashire. 

Dictator  of  Letters.  Francois 
Marie  Arouct  de  Voltaire,  called  the 
Great  run.     (1694-1778.) 

Didactic  Poetry  is  poetry  that 
teaches  some  moral  lesson,  as  Pope's 
Essag  on  Man.  (Greek,  didasko,  I 
teach.) 

Diddle  (To).  To  cheat  in  a  small 
way,  as  "  I  diddled  him  out  of  .  .  .  ." 
Edgar  Allan  Foe  has  an  article  on  the 
art  of  "Diddling."  Ehj'ming  slang  is 
very  common.  {See  Chivy.)  Fiddle  and 
diddle  rhyme.  "Fiddle"  is  slang  for 
a  sharper,  and  "  diddle  "  is  the  act  of  a 
sharper.     The  suggestive  rhj'me  was 

"Hi  diddle  diddle! 
The  cat  and  the  liddle." 

'■  A  certain  jiortit)n  of  the  human  race 
Has  certainly  a  taste  for  being  diddled." 
Hood :  A  Black  Job,  stanza  1. 

Diddler  {Jeremy).  An  artful  swind- 
ler ;  a  clever,  seedy  vagabond,  borrow- 
ing money  or  obtaining  credit  by  his  wit 
and  wits.  From  Kenny's  farce  called 
liaising  the  Wtnd. 

Did'erick.     (See  DiExracH.) 

Dido.     It  Vv'as   Person  who  said  he 
could  rhj'me  on  any  subiect ;  and  being 
asked  to  rhyme  upon   the   three  Latin 
gerunds,  gave  this  couplet — 
"  When  Dido  found  -Eneas  would  not  come. 

She  mourned  in  silence,  and  was  Di-do  dum(b)." 

',*  In  the  old  Eton  Latin  gi'ammar 
the  three  gerunds  are  called   -di,    -do, 


Die 


353 


Difference 


-dion.     In  modern  school  primers  they 
arc  -dttiii,  -di,  -do. 

Wlieu  Uido  saw  .-Eneas  needs  must  po. 
Slie  wept  in  silence,  and  was  dumd))  Di-rto. 
a.  C.  B. 

"  Dido  was  queen  of  Carthage,  who 
fell  in  love  with  jEneas,  ckiven  by  a 
storm  to  licr  sliores.  After  abiding  a- 
while  at  Carthage,  he  was  compelled  by 
Mercury  to  leave  the  hospitable  queen. 
Dido,  in  grief,  burnt  herself  to  death  on 
a  funeral  pile.  ( Virgil :  from  JEneid,  i. 
494  to  iii.  GoO.) 

Die.  TJie  die  is  cast.  The  step  is 
tiiken,  and  I  cannot  draw  back.  So 
said  Julius  Caesar  when  he  crossed  the 
Rubicon. 

_"  I  liave  sot  my  life  npon  tlie  cast. 

And  I  will  stand  the  hazard  of  tlio  die." 
ShalXKpeare :  Richard  ///.,  v.  4. 

Die. 

Whom  the  gods  love  die  yotoig.  This 
is  from  Menander's  fragments  {Hon  hoi 
theoi  philousin  apothueskei  ncos).  De- 
mosthenes has  a  similar  apophthegm. 
Plautushas  the  line,  ''  Quern  I)i  diligiitit 
odolrscens  moritnr.''^  (See  Byron  :  Don 
J>ian,  canto  iv.  12.)  Those  who  die 
young  are  ' '  taken  out  of  the  miseries  of 
this  sinful  life"  into  a  happy  immor- 
tality. 

Die-hards.  The  57th  Foot.  Their 
colonel  (Inglis)  in  the  battle  of  Albuera 
(1811),  addressing  his  men,  said,  "Die 
hard,  my  lads;  die  hard  I  "  And  they 
did  die  hard,  for  their  banner  was  pierced 
with  thirty  bullets.  Only  one  officer  out 
of  twentj'-four  survived,  and  only  168 
men  out  of  584.  This  fine  regiment  is 
now  called  the  West  Middlesex ;  the 
EastMiddlesex  (the Duke  of  Cambridge's 
own)  is  the  old  77th. 

Diego  {San).  A  coiTuption  of  Sant- 
iago (St.  James),  champion  of  the  red 
cross,  and  patron  saint  of  Spain. 

Dies  Alliensis.     (See  Axliexsis.) 

Dies  Irae.  A  famous  mediaeval  hymn 
on  the  last  judgment,  probably  the 
composition  of  Thomas  of  Cela'no,  a 
native  of  Abruzzi,  who  died  in  1200. 
Sir  Walter  Scott  has  introduced  the 
former  part  of  it  into  his  Lag  of  (he  Last 
JlinstrcL 

"  Dies  h-x,  dies  ilia, 
Si)lvet  sieclum  in  fa  villa. 
Teste  David  cum  Sibylla." 
On  tbat  day,  that  wi-athful  day, 
David  and  tlie  Sibyl  say, 
Heaven  and  earth  shall  melt  away. 

E.  C.  B. 

Dies  Non.  A  non-business  day.  A 
law  i^hrase,  meaning  a  day  when  the 

23 


courts  do  not  sit,  as  on  Sundays;  the 
Pmification,  in  Hilary  term  ;  the  Ascen- 
sion, in  Kaster  term  ;  St.  John  the  Bap- 
tist, in  Tiinity  term  ;  and  All  Saints,  with 
All  Souls,  in  Michaelmas  term.  A  con- 
tracted form  of  "  Dies  uon  jnridicus,"  a 
non- judicial  day. 

Dies  Sanguinis.  The  24th  March, 
called  Bello'na's  Day,  when  the  lionian 
votaries  of  the  war-goddess  cut  them- 
selves and  drank  the  sacriiicial  blood  to 
proijitiate  the  deity. 

Dietrich  (2  sj'l.),  of  Berne  or  Vero'na, 
a  name  given  by  the  German  minne- 
sjingers  {minstreh)  to  Theod'oric  the 
Great,  king  of  the  Ostrogoths.  One  of 
the  liegemen  of  King  Etzel.  In  the 
terrible  broil  stirred  up  by  Queen  liriera- 
hild  in  the  banquet-hall  of  the  Huimish 
king,  after  the  slaughter  of  Sir  Rudiger, 
his  friend  Dietrich  interfered,  and  suc- 
ceeded in  taking  prisoners  the  only  two 
surviving  Burgundians,  kings  Gunther 
and  Hagan,  whom  he  handed  over  to 
Kriemhild,  praying  that  she  would  set 
them  free,  but  the  angry  queen  cut  off 
both  their  heads  with  her  own  hands. 
{The  Nibelungen-Licd.) 

Dieu.  Dieu  ct  won  droit  (God  and 
my  right).  The  parole  of  Richard  I.  at 
the  battle  of  Gisors  (1198),  meaning 
that  he  was  no  vassal  of  France,  but 
owed  his  royalty  to  God  alone.  As  the 
French  were  signally  beaten,  the  battle - 
word  was  adopted  as  the  royal  motto  of 
England. 

Difference.  Ophe'lia  says  to  the 
queen,  "  You  may  wear  your  rue  with  a 
difference."  In  heraldry  differences  or 
marks  of  cadency  indicate  the  various 
branches  of  a  family. 

(1)  The  eldest  son,  during  the  life- 
time of  his  father,  bears  a  hihel  (or 
lamhel),  i.e.  a  piece  of  silk,  stuflt,  or 
linen,  with  three  pendants,  broader  at 
the  bottom  than  at  the  top. 

(2)  The  second  son  bears  a  crescent. 

(3)  The  third,  a  mullet  (or  star  with 
five  points) . 

(4)  The  fourth,  a  martlet. 

(5)  The  fifth,  an  annulet. 

(6)  The  sixth,  vifeur-de-Us. 

(7)  The  seventh,  a  rose. 

(8)  The  eighth,  a  cross-moline. 

(9)  The  ninth,  a  double  quatrefoil. 
Opheha  saj-s  both  she  and  the  Queen  are 
to  wear  rue  :  the  one  as  the  affianced  of 
Hamlet,  eldest  son  of  the  late  king  ;  the 
other  as  the  wife  of  Claudius  his  brother, 
and  the  cadet  branch.     The  latter  was  to 


Digest 


354 


Dinali 


have  a  "  difference,"  to  sijjnify  it  was  a 
cadet  branch.  "  I  [says  Ophelia]  shall 
wear  the  rue,  hut  you  [tlie  Queeu  J  must 
now  wear  it  with  a  '  difference.'  " 

Digest  {TIw).  The  collection  of  all 
the  laws  of  Rome  compiled  hy  Tribouiau 
and  sixteen  assistants,  hy  order  of 
Justinian.  It  amounted  to  2,000 
volumes,  and  was  finished  in  three  years 
(a.d.  533).     (<SVt' Pandects.) 

Diggings.  Come  to  my  dir/gings.  To 
my  rooms,  residence,  office,  sanctum.  A 
word  imported  from  California  and  its 
gold  diggings. 

"My  friend  liere  wants  to  take  diRgings  ;  and  as 
you  were  comi'lainiug  that  you  would  get  some- 
one to  go  halves  with  you,  I  thought  I  had  better 
liring  you  together."—-!.  0.  Voyle :  A  Study  in 
Sciiiiet,  chap.  i. 

Dig'gory.  A  bam  labourer,  taken 
on  grand  occasions  for  butler  and  foot- 
man to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hardcastle.  He 
laughs  and  talks  while  serving,  and  is 
as  gauche  as  possible.  {Goldsmith  :  She 
Stoo2)s  to  Conquer.) 

Digit.  The  first  nine  numerals  ;  so 
called  from  the  habit  of  counting  as  far 
as  ten  on  the  fingers.  (Latin,  digitus, 
a  finger.) 

Dignitary  {A).  A  clergyman  who 
holds  preferment  to  which  jurisdiction  is 
annexed,  as  bishops,  deans,  archdeacons, 
canons,  etc. 

Dignus  Vin'dice  Nodus  (Latin). 
A  knot  or  difficulty  worthy  of  such 
hands  to  untie.  Literally,  a  knotty 
point  worthy  to  be  made  a  civil  action. 
The  person  who  brought  a  civil  action 
was  called  in  Roman  law  a  rindex,  and 
the  action  was  called  a  vindicdtio.  If 
the  rightful  possessor  was  a  matter  of 
dispute,  the  question  became  a  lis  vindi- 
cidiiim,  and  was  referred  to  the  jwcetor 
to  determine.  A  knotty  jioint  referred 
to  the  praetor  was  a  "  dignus  vindice 
nodus,'''' 

Dii  Penates  (Latin).  Household 
gods ;  now  used  for  such  articles  of 
furniture  or  decoration  as  the  lady  of 
the  house  especially  prizes. 

Dilem'ma.  The  Itorns  of  a  dilemma. 
"Lemma"  means  a  thing  taken  for 
granted  (Greek,  lam'bano,  to  take). 
"  Dilemma  "  is  a  double  lemma,  a  two- 
edged  sword  which  strikes  both  ways,  or 
a  bull  which  will  toss  you  whichever 
horn  you  lay  hold  of.  A  young  rhetori- 
cian said  to  an  old  soplust,  "  Teach  me 
to  plead,  and  I  will  pay  you  when  I 
gain  a  cause."  The  master  sued  for 
payment,  and  the  scholar  pleaded,  "If 


I  gain  the  cause  I  sliall  not  pay  you, 
because  the  judge  will  say  I  am  not  to 
pay ;  and  if  I  lose  my  cause  I  shall  not 
be  required  to  pay,  according  to  the 
terms  of  our  agreement."  To  this  the 
master  replied,  "Not  so;  if  you  gain 
yoiu'  cause  you  must  pay  me  according 
to  the  terms  of  our  agreement ;  and  if 
you  lose  yoiu-  cause  the  judge  will 
condemn  you  to  pay  nie." 

Dilettan'te  (Italian).  An  amateur 
of  the  fine  arts,  in  oi)i)osition  to  a  pro- 
fessor.    Plural,  dilettanti. 

"These  gentlemen  are  to  he  judged,  not  as 
dilettanti,  but  as  professors."— ^li/iend'ttWi. 

Diligence  is  that  energy  and  in- 
dustry which  wo  show  when  we  do  what 
we  like  (Latin,  dil'igo,  I  like)  ;  but 
indolence  is  that  listless  manner  with 
which  we  do  what  thoroughly  vexes  us. 
(Latin,  in,  intensive ;  doleo,  to  grieve.) 

Diligence.  A  four-wheeled  stage- 
coach, drawn  by  four  or  more  horses. 
Common  in  France  before  the  intro- 
duction of  railroads.  The  pun  is  well 
known. 

Ri  vis  plarere  magietro,  ut2rc  diligentia  (j.e.  his 
diligence). 

Dilly  (plural, Dillies).  Stage-coaches. 
They  first  began  to  run  in  1779.  An 
abbreviation  of  the  French  word  dili- 
gence (q.r.).     "Derby  dilly." 

Dim  and  Distant  Future  (The). 
In  November,  1885,  Mr.  W.  E.  Glad- 
.stonc  said  that  the  disestablishment  and 
di.sendowment  of  the  AngUcan  Church 
were  questions  in  ' '  the  dim  and  distant 
future." 

Diman'clie  {Monsieur) .  A  dun.  The 
term  is  from  Moliere's  Bon  Juan,  and 
would  be,  in  English,  Ilr.  Sunday.  The 
word  dimanche  is  a  corruption  and  con- 
traction of  dies  Bomin'ica  (the  Lord's 
day). 

Dimetse.  The  ancient  Latin  name 
for  the  inhabitants  of  Carmarthenshire, 
Pembrokeshire,  and  Cardiganshire. 

Dim'issory.  A  letter  dlmissory  is  a 
letter  from  the  bishop  of  one  diocese  to 
some  other  bishop,  giving  leave  for  the 
bearer  to  be  ordained  by  him.  (Latin, 
di-mitto,  to  send  away.) 

Dim'ity.  A  cloth  said  to  be  so  called 
from  Damietta,  in  Egypt,  but  really 
from  the  Greek  di-mitos  (double-thread). 
{See  Samite.) 

Di'nah  {Aunt),  in  Sterne's  Tristram 
Shandy.    She  leaves  Mr.  Walter  Shandy 


Dinde 


335 


Bione 


£1,000,  which  he  fancies  will  enable  him 
to  carry  out  all  the  wild  schemes  that 
enter  into  his  head. 

Dinde  (1  syl.).  The  French  for  a 
turkey  is  puidct  cV Inde  (an  Indian  fowl) . 
This  is  an  error,  as  the  bird  comes  from 
America  ;  unless,  indeed,  the  whole 
Western  continent,  with  all  its  con- 
tiguous islands,  be  called  by  the  name 
of  West  Indies.  Our  word  "  turkey  "  is 
no  better,  if  indeed  it  means  a  native  of 
Turkey. 

Dine  {To). 

Qui  dort  dine.  The  seven  sleepers 
and  others  required  no  food  till  they 
woke  from  their  long  sleep.  The  same 
may  be  said  of  all  hibernating  animals. 

To  dine  tcith  Ikiiiociltvs.  To  be 
cheated  out  of  one's  dinner.  Democritos 
was  the  derider,  or  philosopher  who 
laughed  at  men's  folly. 

'To  dine  with  ISir  Thomas  Grcsham. 
To  go  without  one's  diimer ;  to  be 
dinnerless.  Sir  Thomas  Gresham  founded 
the  Royal  Exchange,  which  was  a  fa- 
vourite lounge  for  those  who  could  not 
afford  to  provide  themselves  with  a 
dinner. 

To  dine  with  Biihe  Humphrey.  [See 
Humphrey.) 

To  dine  with  Mahomet.  To  die,  and 
dine  in  paradise. 

To  dine  with  the  cross-legged  knights. 
{Sre  next  cohonn,  Dinneeless.) 

Dine  Out  {To).  To  be  dinnerless ;  to 
go  without  a  dinner. 

Ding  {A).  A  blow.  To  ding  it  in 
one''s  ears.  To  repeat  a  subject  over  and 
over  again  ;  to  teach  by  repetition. 

To  ding.  To  strike.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
deneg\j:ui\,  to  knock,  strike,  beat.)  Hence 
"ding-dong,"  as  "They  were  at  it 
ding-dong." 

"  The  Initcber's  axe,  like  great  Aobilles'  bat, 
DiiiKs    deadly    downs    teu-tbousand-tbonsaud 
Hat."  Taylor:  TKorfcs  (163(i). 

Ding-dong.  Theg  went  at  it  ding- 
dong.  Fighting  in  good  earnest.  To 
ding  is  to  beat  or  bruise  (Saxon,  dencgan) ; 
doug  is  a  responsive  word.  One  gives  a 
ding  and  the  other  a  dong. 

V  Din  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  dyn-ian,  to 
make  a  din  ;  diiuoig^  a  dinning  noise. 

Dingley  Dell.  The  home  of  Mr. 
M^ardle  and  his  family,  and  the  scene  of 
Tupman's  love  adventure  with  Miss 
Rachel.     {Dickens  :  Pickwick  Papers.) 

Dinner  {Waiting for).  The  "mauvais 
quart  d'heure.^^ 


Dinnerless.  Their  hosts  are  the 
cross-lcggrd  knights.  That  is,  the  stone 
effigies  of  the  Round  Church.  In  this 
church  at  one  time  lawyers  met  their 
clients,  and  here  a  host  of  vagabonds 
used  to  loiter  about  all  day,  under  the 
hope  of  being  hired  as  witnesses.  Dining  ' 
with  the  cross-legged  kniglits  meant 
much  the  same  thing  as  dining  with 
duke  Humphrey  ('/./'.). 

Di'nos.    {See  Horse.) 

Dint.  By  dint  of  war  ;  by  dint  of 
argument  ;  by  dint  of  hard  work.  Dint 
means  a  blow  or  striking  (Anglo-Saxon, 
dg)it)  ;  whence  perseverance,  power  ex- 
erted, force  ;  it  also  means  the  indenta- 
tion made  by  a  blow. 

Diocle'tian.  The  Roman  Emperor, 
noted  for  his  fierce  persecution  of  the 
Christians,  303.  The  Emperor  Con- 
stantine,  on  the  other  hand,  was  the 
"  nursing  father"  of  the  Church. 

"  T(i  make  the  Gbuvch's  glory  sliine, 
Sbould  Diocletian  reign,  not  Constantine." 
Crubbe :  BoroiKjli. 

Diocle'tian  was  the  king,  and  Eras- 
tus  the  ijrince,  his  sou,  in  the  Italian 
version  of  the  Seven  Wise  Masters  {q.v.). 

Diog'enes  (4  syl.,  g^).  The  cynic 
philosopher  is  said  to  have  lived  in  a  tub. 

"  Tbe  wbole  world  was  not  balf  so  wide 
To  Alexander,  wlien  be  cried 
Because  be  bad  but  one  to  sub'due, 
As  was  a  paltry  narrow  tub  to 
Diogenes."  Butler  :  Hudihras,  j.  3. 

Diog'enes.     Romanus  IV.,  emperor  of 

the  East  (1067-1071). 

Di'omed's  Horses.  Diuos  {dread- 
ful) and  Lamjjon  {hriglit-eyed).  {See 
Horse.) 

Diom'ede'an  Swop.  An  exchange 
in  which  all  the  benefit  is  on  one  side. 
This  proverbial  expression  is  founded  on 
an  incident  related  by  Homer  in  the 
Iliad.  Glaucus  recognises  Diomed  on 
the  battle-field,  and  the  friends  change 
armour. 

"  For  Diomed's  brass  arms,  of  mean  device,' 
Fi>r  wliicb  nine  o.\en  paid  (a  vulgar  price), 
lie  [ulaururi]  gave  bis  own,  of  gold  divinely 

wniuglir, 
An     bnndred    beeves    tbe    sliining    purcbase 
bougbt."  I'oiie:  Jlnul,  vi. 

Diome'des  or  Diomed.  King  of 
iEto'lia,  iu  Greece,  brave  and  obedient 
to  authority.  He  survived  the  siege  of 
Troy  ;  but  on  his  return  home  found  liis 
wife  living  in  adultery,  and  saved  his 
life  by  living  an  exile  in  Italy.  {Homer  : 
Iliad.) 

Dio'ne  (3  syl.).  Venus,  who  sprang 
from  the  froth  of    the    sea,   after  the 


DionysiuS 


356 


Diptycli 


mutilated  body  of  U'ranus  {the  skij)  had 
been  thrown  there  by  Saturu. 

"  So  viiiiii'-r  Diiiiie,  nursed  )i('np:itli  tlie  w.ivos, 

And  rorkcil  l.v  \rrcids  in  thr  r  c-nnil  cavrs 

MsiH'il   lii-i-  sni-i't    Innc^,  :ind  tried   lier  lender 
smiles."     Diinriii :  Ennininij  i,f  Vojrt.ilioii,  ii. 

Dionys'ius  {the  yott»gcr),  being 
banished  a  second  time  from  Syracuse, 
retired  to  CoTiuth,  where  he  turned 
schoohuaster  for  a  living.  Posterity 
called  him  a  tijrant.  Byron,  iu  his  Ode 
to  Napoleon,  alludes  to  these  facts  in  the 
following  lines  :— 

"  Ccirinth's  pejlaKojinn  Imtli  now 
Transferred  liis  lo'word  to  tliy  lirow." 

That  is,  NaiJoleou  is  now  called  tyrant, 
like  Dionysius. 

Diony'sos.  The  Greek  name  of 
Bacchus  {q.v.). 

FdtUrr:  Zens  i.Tniiiter). 

Fed -its  I 'f  Biicelins  in  llonie,  Bromaliii  or  Brnin- 
alia,  in  JIareh  ;i,nd  Sciitemhor. 

Mi'tlii  r :  SemLlC,  ilauglitcr  of  Cadmus 

Nnrsi-:  )iris:i. 

Oiiis  were  liis  aversion. 

I'liiiDii  ra  drew  liis  cliariot. 

/,'.i</;.s  were  the  most  general  sarridces  offered 
toliini. 

ir//('.-  Ariad'ne. 

The  most  famous  statue  of  this  god 
■was  by  Praxiteles. 

Attains  gave  above  £18,000  sterling 
for  a.  painting  of  the  god  by  Aristides. 

Diophan'tine    Analysis.     Finding 

connncns urate  values  of  squares,  cubes, 
triangles,  etc.  ;  or  the  sum  of  a  given 
number  of  squares  which  is  itself  a 
square  ;  or  a  certain  number  of  squares, 
etc. ,  which  are  in  arithmetical  progres- 
sion. The  following  exami^les  will  give 
some  idea  of  tlie  theory : 

1.  To  find  two  whole  numbers,  the 
sum  of  whose  squares  is  a  square  ; 

2.  To  find  three  square  numbers  which 
are  in  arithmetical  progression  ; 

3.  To  find  a  number  from  which  two 
given  squares  being  severally  subtracted, 
each  of  the  remainders  is  a  square. 

'.*  Diophantus  was  an  Alexandrian 
Greek  (oth  cent.  A.D.) 

Dioscu'ri.  Castor  and  Pollux. 
(Greek,  Diofi  kmiros,  young  men  of  Zeus  ; 
(Uo>^  is  gen.  of  Zeus.) 

The  horses  of  the  Dioscuri.  Cyl'laros 
and  Har'pagos.     {See  Horse.) 

Diotrephes.  One  who  loves  to  have 
the  2)i"e-tminence  among  others.  (3 
John  9.) 

"  Ni'iMier  a  desperate  Judas,  like  the  prelate 
Kliarpi-  [nrehlrisliop  of  St.  Andrew's,  who  was 
murdered  I,  that's  Kone  to  his  ]dace  ;  nor  a  sanc- 
tnar.v  -  l)reaking  Holofernes,  like  the  hloody- 
niiiided  Claverhouse  ;  nor  an  aml)itious  Diotre- 
Idies,  like  the  lad  [Lord]  Evandale  ....  shall 
resist  the  arrows  that  are  whetted  and  the  liow 
that  IS  lieiit  awiinst  you."— Sir  W.Scott:  Old  Mor- 
tality, chap.  xiv. 


Dip  {A).  A  tallow-chandler,  one 
who  makes  or  sells  candles  or  "dips." 
These  candles  are  made  by  dijijuug  into 
melted  tallow  the  cotton  which  foims 
the  wick.    (Anglo-Saxon  r/iy)^."/;/,  to  dip.) 

Diph'thera.  The  skin  of  the  goat 
Amalthea.,  on  which  Jove  wrote  the 
destiny  of  man.  Diphtheria  is  an  infec- 
tious disease  of  the  throat ;  so  called  from 
its  tendency  to  form  a  false  membrane. 

Diplo'ma  literally  means  something 
folded  (Greek).  Diplomas  used  to  be 
written  on  parchment,  folded,  and 
sealed.  The  word  is  applied  to  licences 
given  to  graduates  to  assume  a  degree, 
to  clergymen,  to  iihysicians,  agents,  and 
so  on. 

Diplom'acy.  The  tact,  negotiations, 
privileges,  etc.,  of  a  diplomatist,  or  one 
who  carries  a.  diploma  to  a  foreign  court 
to  authorise  him  to  represent  the  Govern- 
ment which  sends  him  out. 

Diplomatic  Cold  {A).  An  excuse 
to  get  over  a,  disagreeable  engagement. 
Mr.  Healy,  M.P.  (ISSo),  said  that  Lord 
Hartington  and  Mr.  Gladstone  had 
'■  diplomatic  colds,"  when  they  pleaded 
indisposition  as  an  excuse  for  not  giving 
addresses  at  public  meetings  in  which 
they  were  advertised  to  speak.  The  day 
after  the  meetings  both  gentlemen  wci  e 
"  much  better." 

Diplomatics.  The  science  of  pahco- 
grajihy — tliat  is,  deciphering  old  charters, 
diplomas,  titles  ;  investigating  their 
authenticity  and  genuineness,  and  so  on. 
Papebroch,  the  Bollaudist,  originated 
the  study  in  1G75  ;  butMabillon,  another 
Bollandist,  reduced  it  to  a  science  in  his 
work  entitled  I)e  re  J)iploniatu'a,  1681. 
Toustain  and  Tassin  further  developed 
it  in  their  treatise  entitled  Kouveaii 
Traitc  de  Jjlplomatique,  1750-1700. 

Diptycli  {dip'tik'\.  A  register  folded 
into  two  leaves,  ojiening  like  our  books, 
and  not  like  the  ancient  scrolls.  The 
Romans  kept  in  a  book  of  this  sort  the 
names  of  their  magistrates,  and  the 
Roman  Catholics  employed  the  word  for 
the  registers  in  which  were  vrritten  the 
names  of  those  bishops,  saints,  and 
,  martyrs  who  were  to  be  specially  com- 
memorated when  oblations  were  made 
for  the  dead.  (Greek,  diptnrhos,  folded 
in  two.) 

"The  Greeks  executed  small  works  of  great 
elegance,  as  may  be  seen  in  the  diptyehs.  or  ivory 
covers  to  consular  records, or  sacred  volumes  used 
in  the  church  service.''— 2".  Flaxman :  Lectures  on 
Sculi'iuic,  in.  p.  as. 


Bircsean  Swan 


357 


Discuss 


Dircse'an  Swan.  Pindar  ;  so  called 
from  Dirce,  a  fouiitaiu  iu  the  neiglibour- 
hood  of  Thebes,  the  poet's  birthplace 
(B.C.  018-442). 

Direct  Tax  is  one  collected  (Ih-eclhj 
from  the  owner  of  proi^crty  subject  to 
the  tax,  as  when  the  tax-gatherer  goes 
direct  to  the  owner  of  a  house  and  de- 
mands five,  ten,  or  twenty  ijounds,  as  it 
may  be,  for  Government  uses.  Indirect 
taxfs  are  taxes  upon  marketable  com- 
modities, such  as  tea  and  sugar,  the 
tax  on  which  is  added  to  the  article 
taxed,  and  is  paid  by  the  piu-ehasers  in- 
directly. 

Direc'tory.  The  French  constitution 
of  1795,  when  the  executive  was  vested 
in  five  persons  called  directors,  one  of 
whom  retired  every  year.  After  a  sickly 
existence  of  four  years,  it  was  quashed 
by  Napoleon  Bonaparte.  An  alphabet- 
ical list  of  the  inhabitants,  etc.,  of  a  given 
locality,  as  a  "  London  Directory." 

Dirleto'n.  Doubting  icith  Birletou, 
and  rcnulcing  t}iosc  donbts  vith  Stewart. 
Doubting  and  answering  those  doubts, 
but  doubting  still.  It  applies  to  law, 
science,  religion,  morals,  etc.  Sir  John 
Nisbett  of  Dirleton's  Doubts  on  points 
of  law,  and  Sir  James  Stewart's  Doubts 
Itesolred,  are  works  of  established  rejiu- 
tation  iu  Scotland,  but  the  l)oubtii  hold  a 
higher  place  than  the  Solutions. 

Dir'los  {Count).  A  Paladin,  the  beau- 
ideal  of  valour,  generosity,  and  truth. 
The  story  saj's  he  was  sent  by  Charle- 
magne into  the  East,  where  he  con- 
quered Aliar'de,  a  great  Moorish  i^rince. 
On  his  return  he  found  his  young  wife, 
who  thought  he  was  dead,  betrothed  to 
Celi'nos,  another  of  Charlemagne's  peers. 
The  matter  being  set  right,  the  king 
gave  a  grand  banquet.    Dirlos  is  D' Yrlos. 

Dirt  is  matter  in  the  wrong  place. 
(Lord  P(dmerston.)  This  is  not  true  :  a 
diamond  or  sovereign  lost  on  a  road  is 
matter  in  a  wrong  place,  but  certainly  is 
not  dirt. 

Throw  plenty  of  dirt  and  some  will  be 
sure  to  stick.  Scandal  always  leaves  a 
trail  behind. 

Dirt  cheap.  Very  low-priced.  Dirt  is 
so  cheap  that  persons  pay  others  to  take 
it  away. 

To  eat  dirt  is  to  put  up  with  insults 
and  mortification.  An  Eastern  method 
of  punishment. 

■   "If  dirt  were  tnmii'S  wliiit  a  capital  hand  yuu 
Wdiild  li<dd  !  "—Charles  Lamb  to  ilnrtin  Uiirxetj. 

Dirty  Half-Hundred.  The  50th 
Foot,  so  called  from  the  men  wiping 


their  faces  with  their  black  cuffs.    Now 
called  "  The  Queen's  Own." 

Dirty  Lane.  Now  called  Abingdon 
Street,  Westminster. 

Dirty  Shirts  {Thc^.  The  101st  Foot, 
which  fought  at  Delhi  in  their  shirt- 
sleeves (1S.')7).  Now  called  "  The  Royal 
Bengal  Fusileers." 

Dis.    Pluto. 

"  Pmsor'ijiiie  KatLeriiif,'  liuwi-rs, 
Herself  a  fairer  Uuwer,  liy  gltxmiy  Uis 
Was  jjatLered." 

Milton:  Paradise  Lost,  iv.  "70. 

Disas'ter  is  being  under  an  evil  star 
(Greek,  du.s-astcr,  evil  star).  An  astro- 
logical word. 

"The  stars  in  tlieir  courses  fougbt.  against 
Sisera."— Judges  v.  lu. 

Disas'trous  Peace  (La  Taix  Mal- 
hcurcuac).  It  followed  the  battle  of 
Gravelines  (2  syl.),  and  was  signed  at 
Cateau  -  Cambre'sis.  By  this  treaty 
Henri  II.  renounced  all  claim  to  Geu'oa, 
Naples,  Mil'an,  and  Cor'sica  (1559). 

Disbar  {To).  To  dei^rive  a  barrister 
of  his  right  to  i)lead.  The  bar  is  the 
part  barred  off  in  courts  of  law  and 
equity  for  ban-isters  or  pleaders. 

Discard.  To  throw  out  of  one's 
hands  such  cards  as  are  useless. 

Discharge  Bible  {The),  1806.  "I 
discharge  [charge]  thee  before  God." 
(i  Tim.  V.  21.) 

Discipline  (--/).  A  scourge  used  by 
Roman  CathoUcs  for  penitential  pur- 
poses. 

"  Before  the  cross  and  altar  a  lamp  was  stiU 
burning,  .  .  .  and  on  tlu'  llnor  lay  a  small  disci- 
pline or  penitential  srourge  of  small  cord  and 
wire,  tlie  laslies  of  wliicli  were  stained  witli 
recent  blood."— .S'/r  11'.  tifoit :  The  Talisman, 
cliap.  iv. 

Dis'cord  means  severance  of  hearts 
(Latin,  discorda).  It  is  the  opposite  of 
concord,  the  coming  together  of  hearts. 
In  music  it  means  disagreement  of 
sounds,  as  when  a  note  is  followed  by 
another  which  is  disagreeable  to  a 
musical  ear.     {See  Apple.) 

Discount.  At  a  discount.  Not  in 
demand ;  little  valued ;  less  esteemed 
than  fonnerly ;  less  than  their  nominal 
value.  (Latin  dis-coinputo,  to  depreciate.) 

Discuss.  To  discuss  a  bottle.  To 
drink  one  with  a  friend.  Same  as 
"  crush  "  or  '■'■crack  a  bottle."  (Discuss 
is  the  Latin  dis-quatio  ;  French,  casser. 
The  Latin  quassa're  rasa  is  to  break  a 
drinking-vessel.) 

'■We  all  ....  drew  round  the  table,  an  austere 
silence  prevailing,  while  we  discussed  our  meal.'' 
—E.  Bronte:  Wuthei-ing  Heights,  chap,  li, 


Disease 


358 


Distraction 


Disease,  meaning  discomfort,  want 
of  ease,  iiiul  aise,  as 

"  Tn  tlie  world  ye  shall  have  disease."— Trt/c;//; 
John  xvi.  33. 

Dished  (1  syl.).  I  teas  dished  out  of 
it.  Clieated  out  of  it ;  or  rathei',  some 
one  else  contrived  to  obtain  it.  A  con- 
traction of  disherit.  The  heir  is  dish't 
out  of  his  inheritance  when  his  fatlier 
marries  again  and  leaves  his  proj^erty  to 
the  widow  and  widow's  family. 

"  Where's   Biiiiiiiiiel  ?     Dished  !  " 

Bi/ron:  Don  Juan. 

Dish-washer  (^i).    A  scullery-maid. 

Dismal.  Daniel  Finch,  second  earl 
of  Nottingham. 

"  No  sooner  was  Dismal  among  the  Whi^s  .  .  . 
but  Lady  Char[lotJte  is  taken  kuittint,'  in  St. 
James's  Cliaiiel  [i.e.  Lady  Charlotte  Finch,  his 
daughter  J."— A'xttmifier,  April  L'i>'J-lth,  1713,  No.  -I-I. 

Dismas   {St.).     The  penitent  thief. 

[Dysmas.] 

Disney  Professor.  The  Professor 
of  Archa;ology  in  the  University  of  Cam- 
bridge. This  chair  was  founded  in  18.51 
by  John  Disney,  Esq.,  of  the  Hyde, 
lugatestone. 

Disor'der,  says  Franklin,  "break- 
fasts witli  Plenty,  dines  with  Poverty, 
sups  with  Misery,  and  sleeps  with 
Death." 

Dispensa'tion.  The  system  which 
God  chooses  to  dispense  or  establish  be- 
tween Himself  and  man.  The  dispensa- 
tion of  Adam  was  that  between  Adara 
and  God  ;  the  dispensation  of  Abrnhani, 
and  that  of  Moses,  were  those  imparted 
to  these  holy  men  ;  the  Gospel  dispensa- 
tion is  that  explained  in  the  Gospels. 
(Latin,  dis-peiiso,  to  spread  forth,  unroll, 
explain,  reveal. ) 

A  dispensation  from  the  Pope.  Per- 
mission to  dispense  with  something  en- 
joined ;  a  licence  to  do  what  is  forbidden, 
or  to  omit  what  is  commanded  by  the 
law  of  the  Church,  as  distinct  from  the 
moral  law. 

"  A  dispensation  was  obtained  to  enable  Dr. 
Barrow  to  marry."— Tfnj'd. 

Dispu'te  (2  syl.)  means,  literally,  to 
"lop  down"  (Latin,  dis-piito)  ;  debate 
means  to  "knock  down"  (French,  de- 
battre) ;  discuss  means  to  "  shake  down  " 
(Latin,  dis-qaatio)  \  object'  is  to  "cast 
against"  (Latin,  ob-jacio) ;  contend  is  to 
"  pull  against"  (Latin,  contendo) ;  quar- 
rel is  to  throw  darts  at  each  other 
(Welsh,  eivarel,  a  dart)  ;  and  wrangle  is 
to  strain  by  twisting  (Swedish,  rrdnga; 
Anglo-Saxon,  urinyan). 


Dis'solute  is  one  that  rims  loose,  not 
restrained  by  laws  or  any  other  bonds. 
(Latin,  dissolvo,  like  horses  unharnessed.) 

Dis'taff.  A  woman.  Properly  the 
staff  from  which  the  flax  was  drawn  in 
spinning.  The  allusion  is  to  the  ancient 
custom  of  women,  who  spun  from  morn- 
ing to  night.     {Sec  Spinster.) 

"  The  crown  of  France  never  falls  to  the  distaff." 
— Kernel/. 

To  hare  tow  on  the  distaff.  To  have 
work  in  hand.  Froissart  says,  ' '//  aura 
en  bref  temps  autres  estoiipes  en  sa  que- 
iiouille.^' 

"  He  liaddi-  more  tow  on  his  distaf 
Thau  (;er\  eys  knew." 

Cliattcer  :  Canterbary  Tales,  3,77l'. 

St.  Distaff's  Dai/.  The  7th  of  January. 
So  called  because  the  Christmas  festival 
temiinated  on  Twelfth  Day,  and  on  the 
day  following  the  women   returned  to 
their  distaffs  or  daily  occupations.     It  is 
also  called  lioek  Dai/,   a  distaff  being 
called  a  rock.     "  In  old  times  they  used 
to  spui  with  rocks."     {Anbreij :  li'ilts.) 
"  (Jive  St.  Distaff  all  the  right, 
Tlien  give  Christmas  sport  good  night, 
And  next  morrow  every  one 
To  his  own  vocation."  CI'«>7.) 

"  What !  sliall  a  woman  with  a  rock  drive  thee 
away  ? 
Fye  (in  thee,  traitor  !" 

DUjby :  Mysteries,  p.  11. 

Distafii'na.  To  whom  Bombastes 
Furio'so  makes  love.  {Thomas  ISarnes 
Rhodes :  Bombastes  Fiirioso.) 

Distem'per  means  an  undue  mixtm-e. 
In  medicine  a  distemper  arises  from  the 
redimdancy  of  certain  secretions  or  mor- 
bid humours.  The  distemper  in  dogs  is 
an  undue  quantity  of  secretions  mani- 
fested by  a  running  from  the  eyes  and 
nose.    (Latin,  dis-temp'ero,  to  mix  amiss.) 

Applied  to  painting,  the  word  is  from 
another  source,  the  French  detremper  (to 
soak  in  water),  because  the  paints,  in- 
stead of  being  mixed  with  oil,  are  mixed 
with  a  vehicle  (as  yolk  of  eggs  or  glue) 
soluble  in  water. 

Distinguished  Member  of  the 
Humane  Society.  The  name  of  this 
dog  was  Paul  Pry.  Landseer  says, 
"Mr.  Newman  Smith  was  rather  dis- 
appointed when  his  dog  appeared  in 
character  rather  than  '  the  property  of 
Newman  Smith,  Esq.,  of  Croydon 
Lodge.' "  {Notes  and  Queries,  March 
21st,  1885,  p.  225.) 

Distraction.  An  excellent  example 
of  how  greatly  the  meaning  of  words 
may  change.  To  "  distract "  means  now, 
to  harass,  to  perplex ;  and  "distraction" 
confusion  of  mind  from  a  great  multi- 
plicity of    duties ;    but    in    French    to 


Distrait 


359 


Divine  Pagan 


"distract"  means  to  divert  the  mind, 
and  "distraction"  means  recreation  or 
amusement     (Latin,    dis  -  traho),      {Sec 
Slave.) 
Distrait  (Frencli).    Absent-minded. 

Dithyram'bic.  The  father  of  ditJiij- 
raiiibic  puetri/.     Ari'on  of  Lesbos. 

Dit'tany.  When  Godfrey  was 
■wounded  with  an  arrow,  an  "odorifer- 
ous pau'acy  "  distilled  from  dittany  was 
applied  to  the  wound;  whereupon  the 
arrow-head  fell  out,  and  the  woimd 
healed  immediately.  {Tasso :  Jerusalem 
Delivered,  book  xi.) 

Ditto.     {Sec  Do.) 

Dittoes  {A  suit  of).  Coat,  waistcoat, 
and  trousers  all  alike,  or  all  ditto  (the 
same). 

Divan'  (Arabic  and  Persian,  diwan) 
means  a  register  kept  on  a  white  table 
exactly  similar  to  our  board.  Among 
the  Orientals  the  word  is  ap^jlied  to  a 
council-chamber  or  court  of  justice  ;  but 
in  England  we  mean  a  coffee-house 
where  smoking  is  the  chief  attraction. 

Divers  Colours  [in  ffarmaits].  We 
are  told,  in  2  Sam.  xiii.  18,  that  kings' 
daughters  were  arrayed  in  a  garment 
of  divers  colours,  and  Dr.  Shaw  informs 
us  that  only  virgins  wore  drawers  of 
needle-work;  so  that  when  the  mother 
of  Sisera  (Judges  v.  30)  says,  "Have 
they  not  sped  ?  Have  they  not  divided 
the  spoil?  To  Sisera  a  prey  of  divers 
colom-s,  of  divers  colours  of  needle- 
work?" she  means — is  not  the  king's 
daughter  allotted  to  Sisera  as  a  portion 
of    his   spoil?     {Sec    Coat   of   Many 

COLOUES.) 

Divert.  To  turn  aside.  Business  is 
the  regular  walk  or  current  of  our  life, 
but  pleasure  is  a  diversion  or  turning 
aside  for  a  time  from  the  straight  line. 
What  we  call  diversion  is  called  in 
Tvendhdistractioii,  di-awing aside.  (Latin, 
di-verto,  to  turn  aside ;  dis-traho,  to  draw 
aside.) 

Dives  (1  syl.),  Birs  or  Beers.  Demons 
of  Persian  mythology.  According  to 
the  Koran,  they  are  ferocious  and  gigan- 
tic spirits  under  the  sovereignty  of  Eblis. 

"  At  Lahoiv,  intbe  Mogul's  p.ilace,  are  pictures 
of  Dews  anil  Dives  wicli  loug  horns,  staring  eyes, 
shaggy  hair,  great  fangs,  ugly  paws,  long  tails, 
and  such  horril)le  deformity,  that  I  wonder  the 
poor  women  are  not  frightened."— Tl'iiham  Finch  : 
J'urcluis'  Pllyrims,  vol.  i. 

Bives  (2  syl.).  The  name  popularly 
given  to  the  rich  man  in  our  Lord's 
parable  of  the   Eich  Man  and  Lazarus 


(Luke  xvi.).     The  Latin  would  be  Bives 
et  Lazarus. 

Divi'de  (2  syl.).  When  the  members 
in  the  House  of  Commons  interrupt  a 
speaker  by  crj-ing  out  divide,  they  mean, 
biing  the  debate  to  an  end  and  put  the 
motion  to  the  vote— i.e.  let  the  ayes 
divide  from  the  noes,  one  going  into 
one  room  or  lobby,  and  the  others  iuto 
another. 

Divide  and  Govern.  Divide  a 
nation  iuto  parties,  or  set  yom-  enemies 
at  loggerheads,  and  you  can  have  your 
own  way.  A  maxim  of  Machiavelli,  a 
noted  political  writer  of  Florence  (1469- 
1527). 

"  Every  city  or  honse  divided  against  itself 
shall  not  stand."— Matthew  xii.  25. 

Divination.  There  are  numerous 
species  of  divination  referred  to  in  the 
Bible.  The  Hebrew  word  is  added  in 
italics. 

Judicial  AsTKOT,of>Y  (_MeonenX 

Ahgu by  {Mennchesch ). 

Witchcraft  (MecaschepIO. 

ESCHANTJtEXT  {Itlioberoii). 

t'ASTiSG  Lots  {Indeoni). 

By  Tnterrogatisg  Spirit.';.'' 

Uy  Necromancy  (l  Sam.  xxviii.  12). 

By  Rhahdomakcy  (Hosea  iv.  12). 

Bv  Teraphim  or  household  idols. 

By  Hepatoscopy  or  inspecting  the  liver  of 
animals. 

Bv  Dreams  and  their  interpretations. 

Divination  by  Are,  air,  and  water ;  thunder, 
lichtning,  and  meteors  ;  etc. 

The  Urim  and  Thummin  -was  a  prophetic 
iTeastplate  worn  by  the  High  Pi'iest. 

(Consult:  Gen.  x.'fxvii.  5—11 ;  xl.  xU.  ;  1  Sam. 
xxviii.  12;  2  Chron.  xxxiii.6;  Prov.xvi.33;  Ezek. 
xxi.  21  ;  Hosea  iii.  4, 5,  etc.) 

Divine.     The  divine  right  of  kings. 

The  notion  that  kings  reign  by  divine 

right,  quite  independent  of  the  people's 

will.     This  notion  arose  from  the  Old 

Testament  Scriptures,  Avhere  kings  are 

called  "God's  anointed,"  because  they 

were   God's  vicars  on  earth,  when   the 

Jews    changed    their    theocracy    for   a 

monarchy. 

"  The  right  divine  of  kings  to  govern  wrong." 

Pope. 

Divine  {The).  Ferdinand  de  Her- 
re'ra,  a  Spanish  poet  (1516-1595). 

Eaphael,  the  painter,  il  Bivi'no  (1483- 
15'20). 

Luis  Mora'les,  Spanish  painter,  el 
Bivi'no  (1509-1586). 

Divine  Doctor.  Jean  de  Euysbroek, 
the  mystic  (1294-1381). 

Divine  Pagan  {The).  Hjim'tia,  who 
presided  over  the  Neoplaton'ic  School  at 
Alexandria.  She  was  infamously  torn 
to  iDieces  (a.d.  415)  by  a  Christian  mob, 
not  without  the  concui-rence  of  the  Ai'ch- 
bishop  Cyril. 


Divine  Plant 


360 


Do 


Divine  Plant  {The).  Vervain,  called 
by  tlie  liomaus  Herba  Sacra  (q.v.). 

Divine  Speaker  (T/ir).  So  Aristotle 
callucl  Tyr'tamos,  who  therefore  adopted 
the    name    of    Theophrastos   (B.C.  370- 

287). 

Divi'ning  Rod.  A  forked  branch 
of  liazcl,  suspended  by  the  two  jn'ongs 
between  tlio  balls  of  tlie  tliumbs.  The 
inclination  of  the  rod  indicates  the  pre- 
sence of  water-springs,  precious  metal, 
and  auytliiug  else  tliat  simpletons  will 
pay  for.     (.Vcc  Dousteiiswivel.) 

Divinity  in   Odd  Numbers.     Fal- 

staff  tells  us  (in  the  Jlrrri/  Jflrrs  of 
Windaor,  v.  1)  that  this  divinity  affects 
"  nativity,  chance,  and  death."  A 
Trinity  is  by  no  means  confined  to  the 
Cliristian  creed.  The  Brahmins  repre- 
sent their  god  with  three  heads ;  the 
Greeks  and  Komans  had  three  Graces, 
three  Fates,  tlu-ee  Furies,  and  a  three- 
fold Hecate.  Jupiter  had  his  three 
thunderbolts,  Neptune  his  trident,  and 
Pluto  his  tlu-ee-headed  dog.  The  Muses 
were  three  times  three.  Pythagoras 
says  God  is  threefold — "  the  beginning, 
middle,  and  cud  of  all  things."  Then, 
again,  tliere  are  five  features,  five  parts 
to  the  body,  five  vowels,  five  lines  in 
music,  five  acts  to  a  play,  etc. ;  seven 
strings  to  a  harp,  seven  planets  (an- 
ciently, at  any  rate),  seven  musictd 
notes,  etc. 

Chance.  There's  luck  in  odd  numbers 
^^  Numero  Dciis  impdrc  (jamlet''''  {Jlrf/il: 
Eclof/KC  viii.  75).  The  seventh  son  of  a 
seventh  son  was  always  held  notable. 
Baalam  would  have  seven  altars,  and 
sacrificed  on  them  seven  bullocks  and 
seven  rams.  Naaman  was  commanded 
to  dip  seven  times  in  Jordan,  and  Elijah 
sent  his  servant  seven  times  to  look  out 
for  rain.  Climacteric  years  are  seven 
and  nine  with  their  multiples  by  odd 
numbers. 

Ihalh.  The  great  climacteric  year  of 
life  is  63  {i.e.  7x9),  and  Satui-u  pre- 
sides over  all  climacteric  yeai's. 

Divi'no  Lodovi'co.  Ariosto,  author 
of  Orhdnh  Furioso,  an  ej^ic  poem  in 
twenty-four  books.     (1474-1533.) 

Division.  The  sign  -f-  for  division 
W' as  invented  by  John  Pell  of  Cambridge 
in  1GG8. 

Divorcement.  A  vritbig,  or  bill  of 
divorcement.  "Whosoever  shall  jjut 
away  his  wife,  let  him  give  her  a  writ- 
ing   of    divorcement"    (Matt.    v.    31). 


Adalet  tells  in  the  Nineteenth  Century 
(July,  1892,  p.  137) : 

"A  woniiin  [in  TurkoyJ  divorced  from  her 
husband  is  not  treated  with  contumely  .  .  .  .and 
often  marries  avain.  ...  A  man  simpiv  states  to 
hi.s  wife  that  lie  ha.f  divureed  her,  dii  whiidi  slie 
will  gciaw.-ij-  ;  and  I  lie  iiiaii,  haviiiL,'  rel>ealed  the 
same  to  the  ladi.will  reci'i\e  an  art  id'  divorce 
writleli,  wiiirh  he  will  send  lo  her.  If  it  is  I  hc^ 
llrst  (ir  sei-(ind  lime  iliat  I  his  has  oeeiirreil,  lie 
nia.v  take  her  har-k  a--:iiii  with. ml  aii.v  formalily 
ensniiiLf,  hiif,  afler  a  third  divnree,  she  will  hi- 
lust  In  hull  fur  ever.  Seeing  tli(^  ea.se  with  wliieli 
this  may  h.'  ,i..ne,  it  is  not  Bnrprisin!,'  If  nien 
ahiise  I  ill-  liiiiire,  and  Kometimus  divorce  tlieir 
wives  for  |a  very  sm.all]  fanlt  ...  as  a  badly- 
eoiiked  dinner,  or  a  button  unsewod,  knowing 
very  well  that  if  lie  repents  of  it  lie  can  have  her 
back  before  evening.  I  know  a  lady  who  has 
lieen  diviireed  from  live  husbands,  and  is  now 
liviiiLT  with  a  si.\tli." 

Divus  in  Latin,  attaclicd  to  a  proper 
name,  does  not  mean  divine,  but  simply 
deceased  or  canonised  ;  excellentl}'  trans- 
lated in  Notes  and  Queries  (May  21st, 
1892,  i>.  421),  "of  blessed  memory." 
Thus,  iJiviis  Augustus  means  Augustus 
of  blessed  memory,  not  divine  Augustus. 
Of  course,  the  noun  "  divus"  opposite  to 
a  proper  noun  =r  a  god,  as  in  Horace, 
3  OdesY.  2,  "  Fr<cse)is  divus  hubebifur  Au- 
ffusfus.^^  While  living,  Augustus  will 
be  accounted  a  god.  Virgil  {L'cl.  i.  G) 
says,  " I)eus  nobis  hccc  otia  fecit;''''  the 
"  deus  "  was  Augustus. 

Dix'ie  Land.  Nigger  land.  Mason 
ami  Di.xon  drew  a  line  which  was  to  be 
the  northern  limit  of  slavery.  In  the 
third  quarter  of  tlie  19th  century  the 
southern  part  of  this  line  was  called 
Dixie  or  nigger  laud. 

Dizzy.  A  nickname  of  Benjamin 
Disraeli  (Lord  Beaconsfield)  (1805-1881). 

Djin'nestan'.  The  realm  of  the  djinns 
or  genii  of  Oriental  mythology. 

Do.  A  contraction  of  ditto,  which  is 
the  Italian  ditto  (said),  Latin  diet  us. 

Jloiv  do  you  do  .^  i.e.  How  do  you 
fare  ?  It  should  be.  How  do  you  du  ? 
(Anglo-Saxon,  duy-un  =  vcdere)  ;  in 
Latin,  Quouwdv  vides. 

IJ'cIl  to  do.  This,  again,  is  not  the 
transitive  verb  (facere)  but  the  intransi- 
tive verb  (vctlere),  and  means  "well  to 
fare."     (Anglo-Saxon,  dug-an^valere.) 

To  do  him,  i.e.  cheat  or  trick  a  person 
out  of  something. 

/  have  done  the  Jew,  i.e.  over-reached 
him.     The  same  as  outdo  =  excel. 

Do  (to  rhjone  with  go) .  The  first  or 
tonic  note  of  the  solfeggio  system  of 
music. 

Do,  re,  mi,  ft,  sol,  la,  Italian ;  nt.  re, 
mi,  fa,  sol,  la,  French.  The  latter  are  bor- 
rowed from  a  hymn  by  Paidus  Piaconus, 
addi-essed  to  St.  Jolm,  which  Guido,  in 


Do  for 


361 


Dr.  Diafoirus 


the  eleventh  centuiy,  used  in  teaching 
singing : 

"  Ut  imeant  laxis,  Ke-sonare  flbris, 
J/i-ia  Kestoruni  Fa-muli  tuorum, 
6'oi-ve  poilutis  La-hiis  reatum." 

Kancte  Joannes. 

Uf-tered  be  tby  wcindroiis  story. 

J?c-i>rebensiM' tlHnii.'li  I  be. 
J/eiiiake  mindful  nf  tby  i-'biry, 

f((-mous  son  (if  Z:i<-b;iri-e  ; 
,Si)/-ace  to  my  siiirit  lirintr, 
y>tt-bounng  thy  praise  to  sing. 

E.  C.  B. 

{Sec  Weizius  in  HcortoJof/io,  p.  263.)  Le 
Maire  added  si  (seventeenth  centuiy). 
{Sec  AiiETiNiA^"  Syllables.) 

Do  for.  /'//  do  fur  him.  Ruin  him  ; 
literally,  provide  for  him  in  a  bad  sense. 
'■Taken  in  and  done  for,"  is  taken  in 
and  provided  for  ;  but,  jocosely,  it 
means  "  cheated  and  fleeced." 

Do  up  {To).  To  set  in  order;  to 
make  tidy.  "  Dup  the  door."  {See 
Dup.) 

Doab  (Indian).  A  tract  of  land  be- 
tween two  rivers.     (Pronounce  du'-ab.) 

Dobbin.  A  steady  old  horse,  a 
child's  horse.  Bohby,  a  silly  old  man. 
Dobbies,  house-elves  similar  to  brownies. 
All  these  are  one  and  the  same  word. 
Tlie  dobbies  lived  in  the  house,  were 
very  tliin  and  shaggy,  very  kind  to  ser- 
vants and  children,  and  did  many  a 
little  service  when  people  had  their  hands 
full. 

"Sober  Dobbin  lilts  Ills  clumsy  beel." 

Bloomficld :  Farmer's  Boy.  tWinter,  stanza  9.) 

Dobbins  {Hiiniphren) .  The  valet-de- 
cliambre  and  factotum  of  Sir  Robert 
liramble,  of  Blackbury  Hall,  in  the 
coimty  of  Kent.  A  blunt,  i-ough-spoken 
old  retaiuer,  full  of  the  milk  of  human 
kindness,  and  most  devoted  to  his  master. 
{(J.  Cohnan  :  The  Poor  Geiitlcmcoi.) 

Dobby's  Walk.  The  goblin's  haunt 
or  beat.  Dobby  is  an  archaic  word  for 
a  goblin  or  brownie.  ('SVy'  Washington 
Irviug's  Bracebridyc  11  all,  ii.  183-6.) 
Dobby  also  means  an  imbecile  old  man. 

"The  Dobby's  walk  was  within  the  inhabited 
(iiniains  of  the  Hall."— Sir  W.  Scott:  Peveril  of 
llie  I'cak,  chap.  x. 

Doce'tes  (3  syl.).  An  early  heretical 
sect,  which  maintained  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  only  God,  and  that  His  ^asible  form 
was  merely  a  phantom  ;  that  the  cruci- 
fixion and  resurrection  were  illusions. 
(The  word  is  Greek,  and  means  phan- 
toiiiists.) 

Dcck-Alfar.  The  dark  Alfs  -whose 
abode  is  luulerground.  They  are  in 
appearance  blacker  than  pitch.  {Scan- 
dinavian tn>/iholoffi/.) 


Dock-side  Lumper  {A).  One  en- 
gaged in  deUveriug  and  loading  ships' 
cargoes. 

"Judging  of  my  histiionic  powers  by  my  nut- 
ward  man,  he  probably  thought  me  more  tit  for  a 
(lock-side  lumper  than  an  actor."— C  'niomson: 
AuUtliijrjraphii,  p.  I'Jl. 

Dock  Warrant  {A).  An  order  au- 
thorising the  removal  of  goods  ware- 
housed in  the  dock. 

Doctor.  A  seventh  sou  used  to  be  so 
dubbed  from  the  notion  of  his  beiug 
intuitively  skilled  in  the  ctire  of  agues, 
the  king's  evil,  and  other  diseases. 

"  Plusieurs  croyent  iiu"en  France  lea  septicnnes 
gar'jons,  nez  de  legitimes  mariages  (sans  iiue  la 
suitle  des  sept  ait,  este  interrompue  par  la  luiis- 
saiice  (Taucune  tille)  peuvcnt  aussi  guerir  des 
tlevres  tierces,  des  llevres  quartes,  et  mesme  des 
ocrouelles,  apres  avoir  jeune  trois  ou  uciil  jours 
avantiiuede  toucher  les  malades."— ./ert»  Finptiste 
Thiers  :  TraiU  desSuptrstitious,  etc.,  i.  p.  43(i. 

Doctor  {The).  The  cook  on  board 
shij),  who  "doctors"  the  food.  Any 
adulterated  or  doctored  beverage  ;  hence 
the  mixtirre  of  milk,  water,  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  rum,  is  called  Doctor  ;  the  two 
fonner  ingredients  being  "doctored" 
by  the  two  latter. 

Doctor  {The).  Brown  sherry,  so 
called  because  it  is  concocted  from  a 
harsh,  thin  wine,  by  the  addition  of  old 
boiled  mosto  stock.  Mosto  is  made  by 
heating  uufei'mented  juice  in  earthen 
vessels,  till  it  becomes  as  thick  and 
sweet  as  treacle.  This  syrup  beiug 
added  to  fresh  "  must "  ferments,  and 
the  luscious  produce  is  used  for  doctor- 
iug  very  inferior  qualities  of  wine. 
{Shaw :  On  Wine.) 

To  doctor  the  tvinc.  To  drug  it,  or 
strengthen  it  with  brandy.  The  fermen- 
tation of  cheap  wines  is  increased  by  fer- 
mentable sugar.  As  such  wines  fail  in 
aroma,  connoissetu'S  smell  at  their  wine. 
To  doctor  wine  is  to  make  weak  wine 
stronger,  and  "  sick  "  'wine  more  palat- 
able. 

Doctored  Dice.     Loaded  dice. 

To  doctor  the  accounts.  To  falsify 
them.  They  are  ill  (so  far  as  you  are 
concerned)  and  you  falsify  them  to  make 
them  look  better.  The  allusion  is  to 
drugging  wine,  beer,  etc.,  and  to  adulte- 
ration generally. 

Dr.  Diafoirus  ia  Moliere's  Mnlade 
Imatjinaire.  A  man  of  fossilised  ideas, 
who,  like  the  monk,  refused  to  chauge 
his  time  -  honoured  ntumpsimus  (q.r.), 
for  the  new-fangled  sumpslmus.  Dr. 
Diafou-us  used  to  say,  what  was  good 
enough  for  his  forefathers  was  good 
enough  for  their  posterity,  aud  he  had 
no  patience  with  the  modern  fads  about 


Dr.  Dove 


362 


Doctour 


the  rotundity  of  the  Ccarth,  its  motion 
round  the  sun,  the  circulation  of  the 
blood,  and  all  such  stuff. 

Dr.  Dove.  The  hero  of  Southey's 
Doctor, 

Dr.  Fell.  I  do  not  like  thee,  Dr.  Fell. 
A  correspondent  of  Notes  and  (inerles 
says  the  author  was  Tom  Brown,  who 
wrote  D'lnloejues  of  the  Dead,  and  the 
person  referred  to  was  Dr.  Fell,  Dean  of 
Christchurch  (1625-1686),  who  expelled 
him,  but  said  he  would  remit  the  sen- 
tence if  he  translated  the  thirty-third 
Epigram  of  Martial : 

"  Ndii  amo  te,  Zaliidi,  iipc  ikissudi  dicere  quare; 
Hue  tiiutiiiii  iidssiiiu  diiere,  null  amo  te." 
"  I  d(i  not  like  Hire,  llr.  Fell, 
Tlio  rrasuii  \\iiv  1  caiiniit  tell; 
But  this  1  liiiiiw,  1  know  full  well, 
1  do  not  like  tlicf,  Ur.  Fell."    T.  liroicn. 

Doctor  Mirabilis.  Roger  Bacon 
(1214-1292). 

Doctor  My-Book.  Dr.  John  Aber- 
ne'thy,  so  called  because  he  used  to  say 
to  his  patients,  "  Read  nii/  book  " — on 
SKrylcal  Observations.     (1765-1830.) 

Dr.  Rez'io  or  Pedro  Jiezio  of  Agae'ro. 
The  doctor  of  Barata'ria,  who  forbade 
Sancho  Panza  to  taste  any  of  the  meats 
set  before  him.  Roasted  partridge  was 
forbidden  by  Hippoc'rates  ;  podri'da  was 
the  most  pernicious  food  in  the  world ; 
rabbits  are  a  sharp-haired  diet ;  veal  is 
prejudicial  to  health  ;  but  the  governor 
might  eat  a  "few  wafers,  and  a  thin 
slice  or  two  of  quince."  {Don  Quixote, 
part  ii.  book  iii.  chaii.  10.) 

Dr.  Sangra'do,  of  Vairadolid',  a  tall, 
meagre,  pale  man,  of  very  solemn 
appearance,  who  weighed  every  word  he 
uttered,  and  gave  an  emphasis  to  his 
sage  dicta.  "His  reasoning  was  geo- 
metrical, and  his  opinions  angular." 
He  said  to  the  licentiate  Sedillo,  who 
was  sick,  ' '  If  you  had  drunk  nothing 
else  but  pure  water  all  your  life,  and 
eaten  only  such  simple  food  as  boiled 
apples,  you  would  not  now  be  tormented 
with  gout."  He  then  took  from  him  six 
porringers  of  blood  to  begin  with ;  in 
three  hours  he  rejieated  the  operation ; 
and  again  the  next  day,  saying :  "  It  is 
a  gross  error  to  suppose  that  blood  is 
necessary  for  life."  With  this  depletion, 
the  patient  was  to  drink  two  or  three 
pints  of  hot  water  every  two  hours. 
The  result  of  this  treatment  was  death 
"from  obstinacy."     {Gil  Bias,  chap,  ii.) 

Doctor  Slop.  An  enthusiast,  who 
thinks  the  world  hinges  on  getting  Uncle 


Toby  to  understand  the  action  of  a  new 
medical  instrument.  {Sterne :  Tristram 
Shandij.) 

A  nickname  given  by  William  Hone 
to  Sir  John  Stoddart,  editor  of  the  New 
Times.     (1773-1850.) 

Doctor  Squintum.  George  White - 
field,  so  called  by  Foote  in  his  fai"ce 
entitled  The  Minor.     (1711-1770.) 

Theodore  Hook  applied  the  same  so- 
briquet to  the  Rev.  Edward  Irving,  who 
had  an  obliquity  of  the  eyes.  (1792- 
1834.) 

Doctor  Syntax.  A  simple-minded, 
pious  henjiecked  clergymtiu,  very  simjile- 
niiuded,  but  of  excellent  ttvste  and 
scholarship,  who  left  home  in  search  of 
the  picturesque.  His  adventures  are 
told  in  eight -syllable  verse  in  'The  Tour 
of  JJr.  tSi/ntax,  by  William  Combe.  {See 
Duke  Combe.) 

Dr.  Si/nta.v^s  horse.  Grizzle,  all  skiu 
and  bone.     {See  Hoese.) 

Doctors.  False  dice,  which  are 
doctored,  or  made  to  turn  up  winning 
numbers. 

"'Tlie  whole  antecliamber  is  full,  my  loid— 
kniKlils  and  squires,  doctors  and  dicers.' 

'"Tlie  dioers  with  theirdoctorsin  their  pockets, 
I  iiresume.'  "Scvtt :  Pevcril  of  the  Peak,  chap, 
xxviii. 

"  Or  chaired  at  White's,  amidst  the  doctors  sit." 
DuvcUtd,  book  i.  203. 

Doctors.  The  three  best  doctors  are 
Dr.  Quiet,  Dr.  Diet,  and  Dr.  Merrijman. 

"Si  tilii  deflciant  medici,  medici  tibi  fiant 
H;ec  tria :  Mens-hvta,  llequies,  Moderata-Dia'ta." 

Doctors'  Commons.  A  locality 
near  St.  Paul's,  wliere  the  ecclesiastical 
courts  -were  formerly  held,  and  wills 
preserved.  To  "common"  means  to 
dine  together ;  a  tei-m  still  used  at  our 
universities.  Doctors'  Commons  was  so 
called  because  the  doctors  of  civil  law 
had  to  dine  together  fom-  days  in  each 
term.    This  was  called  eating  their  terms. 

Doctors  Disagree.  Who  shall  de- 
cide when  doctors  disagree.  Wheu 
authorities  differ,  the  question  sub  judice 
must  be  left  undecided.  {Fo2)e  :  Moral 
Essays,  epistle  iii.  line  1.) 

Doctor's  Stuff.     Medicine  ;  stuff  sent 
from  the  doctor. 
Doctored  Wine.    {See  To  Doctor.) 

Doctour     of     Phisikes     Tale,    in 

Chaucer,  is  the  Roman  story  of  Virgi- 
nius,  given  by  Livy.  There  is  a  version 
of  this  tale  in  the  Roman,  de  la  Hose,  vol. 
ii.  p.  74 ;  and  another,  by  Gower,  in  his 
Coiifessio  Amantis,  book  vii. 


Doctrinists 


363 


Boeg 


Doctrinists  or  Doctrinaires.  A  poli- 
tical party  which  has  existed  in  France 
since  1815.  They  maintain  that  true 
liberty  is  compatible  with  a  monarchical 
Government ;  and  are  so  called  because 
they  advocate  what  is  only  a  doctrine  or 
dream.     M.  Guizot  was  one  of  this  party. 

Dodge  (1  syl.).  An  artful  device  to 
evade,  deceive,  or  bilk  some  one.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  (Icof/ian,  to  conceal  or  colour.) 

The  religious  dodge.  Seeking  alms  by 
trading  on  religion. 

Tlie  tidg  dodge.  To  dress  up  a  family 
clean  and  tidy  so  as  to  excite  sympathy, 
and  make  passers-by  suppose  you  have 
by  misfortune  fallen  from  a  respectable 
state  in  society. 

Dodge  About  {To),  in  school  phrase, 
is  to  skip  about  and  not  go  straight  on 
through  a  lesson.  A  boy  learns  a  verb, 
and  the  master  does  not  hear  him  con- 
iugate  it  straight  thi-ough,  but  dodges 
liim  about.  Also  in  class  not  to  call 
each  in  order,  but  to  pick  a  boy  here  and 
there. 

Dodger.  A  "  knowing  fellow."  One 
who  knows  all  the  tricks  and  ways  of 
London  life,  and  profits  by  such  know- 
ledge. 

Dodger.  The  Artful  Dodger.  John 
Dawkius,  a  young  thief,  up  to  every 
artifice,  and  a  perfect  adept  in  villainy. 
A  sobriquet  given  by  Dickens  to  such  a 
rascal,  in  his  Oliver  Twist,  chap,  vui, 

Dodington,  whom  Thomson  invokes 
in  his  t'^iiiiiii/cr,  was  George  Bubb  Dod- 
ington, Lord  Melcomb-Ilegis,  a  British 
statesman,  who  associated  much  with 
the  wits  of  the  time.  Churchill  and  Pope 
ridiculed  him,  while  Hogarth  introduced 
him.  in  his  wig  into  his  picture  called 
the  Orders  of  Periwigs. 

Dod'ipoll.  As  wise  as  Dr.  DodipoU 
(or)  Doddipole — i.e.  not  wise  at  all ;  a 
dunce.  {Doddy  in  dodi-poll  and  doddy- 
pate  is  probably  a  variant  of  tottg,  small, 
puny.  Doddy-poll,  one  of  pimy  in- 
tellect.) 

Dodman  or  Doddiman.  A  snail.  A 
word  still  common  in  Norfolk ;  but 
Fairfax,  in  his  Bulk  and  Selredge  (1674), 
speaks  of  "  a  snayl  or  dodman." 

"  Doddiman,  doddiman,  put  out  your  hoi-n, 
Here  comes  a  thief  to  steal  your  eoi-n." 

Norfolk  rhyme. 

Dodo'na.  A  famous  oracle  in  Epi'ros, 
and  the  most  ancient  of  Greece.  It  was 
detlicated  to  Zeus  (Jupiter),  and  situate 
in  the  village  of  Dod5na. 

V  The  tale  is,  that  Jupiter  presented 


his  daughter  Thebe  with  two  black 
pigeons  which  had  the  gift  of  human 
speech.  Lemprifere  tells  us  that  the 
Greek  word  peleiai  (pigeons)  means,  in 
the  dialect  of  the  Eplrots,  old  women;  so 
that  the  two  black  doves  with  human 
voice  were  two  black  or  African  women. 
One  went  to  Libya,  in  Africa,  and 
founded  the  oracle  of  Jupiter  Ammon  ; 
the  other  went  to  Epirus  and  founded 
the  oracle  of  Dodona.  We  are  also  told 
that  plates  of  brass  were  suspended  on 
the  oak  trees  of  Dodona,  which  being 
struck  by  thongs  when  the  wind  blew, 
gave  various  sounds  from  which  the  re- 
sponses were  concocted.  It  appears  tliat 
this  suggested  to  the  Greeks  the  phrase 
Kalkos  Dodones  (brass  of  Dodona),  mean- 
ing a  babbler,  or  one  who  talks  an  infi- 
nite deal  of  nothing. 

Dods  {Meg).  The  old  landlady  in 
Scott's  novel  called  St.  Ronan^s  Well. 
An  excellent  character,  made  up  of  con- 
sistent inconsistencies  ;  a  mosaic  of 
oddities,  all  fitting  together,  and  form- 
ing an  admirable  whole.  She  was  so 
good  a  housewife  that  a  cookery  book  of 
great  repute  bears  her  name. 

Dodson  and  Fogg.  The  lawyers 
employed  by  the  plaintift"  in  the  famous 
case  of  "  Bardell  r.  Pickwick,"  in  the 
Fiekwiek  Papers,  by  Charles  Dickens. 

Doe  (1  syl.).  John  Doe  and  Richard 
Roe.  Any  plauitiff  and  defendant  in  an 
action  of  ejectment.  They  were  sham 
names  used  at  one  time  to  save  certain 
"  niceties  of  law  ; "  but  the  clumsy 
device  was  abolished  in  1852.  Any 
mere  imaginary  persons,  or  men  of 
straw.  John  Doe,  Richard  Roe,  John  o' 
Noakes,  and  Tom  Styles  are  the  four 
sons  of  "Mrs.  Harris,"  all  bound  ap- 
prentices to  the  legal  profession. 

Doeg  (2  syl.),  in  the  satire  of  Absalom 
and  Achitophel,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  is 
meant  for  Elka'nah  Settle,  a  poet  who 
wrote  satires  upon  Dryden,  but  was  no 
match  for  his  great  rival.  Doeg  was 
Saul's  herdsman,  who  had  charge  of  his 
mules  and  asses.  He  told  Saul  that  the 
priests  of  Nob  had  provided  David  with 
food ;  whereupon  Saul  sent  him  to  put 
them  to  death,  and  eighty- five  were 
ruthlessly  massacred.  (1  Sam.  xxi.  7  ; 
xxii.  18.) 

"  Doeg,  though  without  knowing  how  or  why, 
Made  still  a  blundering  kind  of  melody  .... 
Let  him  rail  on  ;  let  liis  invective  Muse 
Have  four-and-t  weuty  letters  to  aliuse. 
Which  if  he  jumldi's  to  one  line  of  sense. 
Indict  him  of  a  capital  offence." 

Absalum  and  Achitophel,  part  ii. 


Doff 


364 


Dog 


Doff  is  do-off,  as  "Doff  your  hat." 
So  l>oii  is  do-on,  as  "  Dou  your  clothes." 
1)11})  is  do-up,  as  "  Dup  the  door  "  {q.v.). 

■'  Doff  I  liy  harness,  yi)uth  .  .  . 
Ami  teiiiiit  iKit  yet  the  brushes  of  the  war." 
.s/iii/.e.-jjeacc;  Troilus  and  Cressida,  v.  3. 

Dog.  This  long  article  is  subdivided 
into  eleven  parts : 

1    Dogs  of  note. 

2.  Dogs  of  noted  persons. 

3.  Dogs  models  of  their  species. 

4.  Diii-'^i  ill  I'lintses. 

5.  Dn^-'s  used  iiMiiiphorically,  etc. 

6.  Dm'-'s  III  SrniiLiire  language. 

7.  Dn-s  111  ;ill. 

8.  ))(iL'-iii  iiroMiiis  anil  failles 

!J.    DuL'S   111   Mll'l-rslitinll.S. 

111.  I)ml-,  III.'  iiiali-  . if  animals. 
11.  Do^rs  inferior  iil.-iuts. 

(1)  Dogs  of  Nolc: 

Harry.  The  famous  mastiff  of  Great 
St.  Bernard's,  in  the  early  part  of  the 
present  century  instrumental  in  saving 
forty  human  beings.  His  most  memor- 
able acliievemeut  was  rescidug  a  little 
boy  whose  mother  had  been  destro3-ed 
by  an  avalanche.  The  dog  carried  the 
boy  on  his  back  to  the  hospice.  The 
stiiffed  skin  of  this  noble  animal  is  kcj^t 
in  the  museum  of  Berne. 

Gdvrt  (q.r.). 

Tuiito)).  The  dog  wliich  was  enclosed 
in  an  acorn. 

Trftji — i.e.  Trag  =z  runner,  or  else  from 
the  Spanish  truer,  to  fetch. 

(2)  Dogs  of  }toicd 2)('rso)>s : 
ylcttcoii's  jfifti/  dogs.     Alee  {strength), 

Amaryn'thos  {from  Aiiuirg'thia,  in  Ei(- 
bwa),  As'bolos  {soot -colour),  Ban'os, 
Bor'eas,  Cau'ache  {ringwood),  Chedise'- 
tros,  Cisse'ta,  Co'ran  {cropped,  crop-eared), 
Cyllo  {halt),  Cyllop'otes  {zig-zag  rioiiier), 
CyiVrios  {the  Cyprian),  Draco  {the  dra- 
gon), Drom'as  {the  courser),  Dro'mios 
{seize -''em),  Ech'nobas,  Eu'dromos  {good- 
ranner),  Har'^mle  {roracioas),  Harpie'a 
{tear-h-ni),  Ichnob'ate  {traek-foUower), 
La'bros  {furious),  Lacaena  {lioness), 
Lach'ne  {glossg-eoated),  Lacon  {Spartan), 
Ladon  {from  Ladon,  in  Area'diei),  Las- 
laps  {Iiarrieaiu'),  Lampos  {shining -one), 
Leu'cos  {grey),  Lycis'ca,  Lyuce'a,  Ma- 
ch'imos  {boxer),  Melampe  {black),  Melan- 
che'te  {blaek-eoat),  Melan'ea  {black), 
Menele'a,  Molossos  {from  3Iolossos), 
Na'pa  {begotten  by  a  icolf),  Xebroijh'ouos 
{fawn-killer),  Oc'ydroma  {su-ift-runner), 
Or'esit'rophos  {mountain-bred),  Ori'basos 
{mountain  -  ranger),  Pachy'tos  {thick- 
skinned),  Pam'phagos  {ravenous),  Poe'- 
menis  (/rw^/rr),  Pter'elas  {winged),  Stricta 
{"pof),  Therid'amas  {beast-tamer  or  sub- 
ducr),  The'ron  {savage  -fc(ced),  Thoos 
{swift),  U'ranis  {heavenly -one). 
V  Several  modem  names  of  dogs  are 


of  Spanish  origin,  as  Ponto   (pointer), 
Tray  (fetch),  etc. 

King  Arthur^s  favourite  Itound.  Ca- 
vall. 

Aubry^s  dog.  Aubry  of  Montdidier 
was  murdered,  in  1371,  in  the  forest  of 
Bondy.  His  dog.  Dragon,  showed  a 
most  iniusual  hatred  to  a  man  named 
Richard  of  Macaire,  always  snarling  and 
ready  to  fly  at  his  throat  whenever  he 
appeared.  Susiiicion  was  excited,  and 
Kichard  of  Macaire  was  condemned  to  a 
judicial  combat  with  the  dog.  He  was 
killed,  and  in  his  dykig  moments  con- 
fessed the  crime. 

Belgrade,  the  camp-sutler's  dog: 
Clumsy. 

Browning's  (Mrs.)  little  dog  Flush,  on 
whicli  site  wrote  a  iioem. 

Lord  Byron^s  favourite  dog.  Boat- 
swain, bmied  in  the  garden  of  Newstead 
AbbeJ^ 

Catherine  de  Medici's  favourite  lap- 
dog  was  named  Phoebe. 

CathullLn's  hound  was  named  Luatli 
{ei.r.). 

Douglas's  hound  was  named  Luffra  or 
Lufra  {ft -v.). 

Elizabeth  of  Bohemia's  dog  was  named 
Apollon. 

Fingal's  dog  was  named  Bran. 
" '  Mar  e  Bran,  is  o  a  lirat  hair  '  ( 1  f  it  lie  not  Uran, 
it  is  Bran's  lirother)  was  the  imiverliial  reply  of 
Maccomliich."— HVii'i'c/c;/,  chap.  xlv. 

Frederick  of  Wales  had  a  dog  given 
liim  by  Alexander  Pope,  and  on  the 
collar  were  these  woi'ds — 

•'  I  am  his  Highness'  dng  at  Kow  ; 
Pray  tell  me,  sir,  whose  dog  are  you  ?  " 

Ge'ryon''s  dogs.  Gargittios  and  Orthos. 
The  latter  was  the  brother  of  Cer'beros, 
but  had  one  head  less.  Hercules  killed 
both  these  monsters. 

lear'ios's  dog.  MiEra  {the  glistcner). 
Icarios  was  slain  by  some  drunken  peas- 
ants, who  buried  the  body  under  a  tree. 
His  daughter  Erig'one,  searching  for  her 
father,  was  directed  to  the  spot  bj^  the 
howling  of  Mtera,  and  when  she  dis- 
covered the  body  she  hung  herself  for 
grief.  Icarios  became  the  constellation 
Bootes,  Erig'one  the  constellation  Virgo, 
and  Msera  the  star  Fro'cyon,  which  rises 
in  July,  a  little  before  the  Dog-star. 
(Greek,  pro-knon.) 

Kenneth's  {Sir)  famous  hound  was 
called  Eoswal.  {Sir  IF.  Scott:  The 
Talisman.) 

Lamb's  {Charles)  dog  was  named 
Dash. 

Lander's  {Savage)  dog  was  named 
Giallo. 

Landseer's  greyhound  was  named 
Brutus.     "  The  Invader  of  the  Larder." 


Bog 


30,- 


Dog 


Llewellyn's  gi-eyhound  was  named 
Gelert'  (ly.r.). 

Luillam^s  dog.     {Src  Lazy.) 

Lurgan's  (Lord)  greyhound  was  named 
Master  M'Grath,  from  an  oqthau  boy 
Vvho  reared  it.  It  won  three  Waterloo 
Cuijs,  and  was  j^rosented  at  Court  liy  the 
express  desire  of  Queen  Victoria,  the 
very  year  it  died  (18(J6-1871). 

Xcril/v's  dog.  It  ran  away  whenever 
it  was  called.  In  the  corresponding 
Italian  proverb  the  dog  is  called  that  of 
the  Vicar  Arlotto.     (<SVe  Chien.) 

Mantlic  dog.     {See  Mautiie.) 

)Sir  Isaac  ^'civton^s,  Diamond  (q.v.). 

Dog  of  Montargis.  The  same  as 
Aubry's  dog.  A  picture  of  the  combat 
was  for  many  years  j)rcserved  in  the 
castle  of  MontargLs.    {See  Aubry's  Dog.) 

Ori'on's  dogs  were  Arctoph'onos  {bcar- 
Ji/ //('■)■),  and  Ptooph'agos  (Ptoon-glutton.) 
(I'toon  is  in  Bceotia.) 

Pope's  dog  was  named  Bounce. 

Punch's  dog  is  Toby. 

Eichard  II. 's  greyhound  was  named 
Mathe.  It  deserted  the  king  and  at- 
tached itself  to  Bolingbroke. 

Roderick  the  Goth's  dog  was  named 
Therou. 

Rupert's  {Prinee)  dog,  killed  at  Mar- 
stou  Moor,  was  named  Boy. 

Scott's  (iS'ir  Walter)  dogs:  his  favourite 
deerhound  was  named  Maida ;  his  jet- 
black  greyhound  was  called  Hamlet. 
He  also  had  two  Dandy  Dinmont 
terriers. 

Seven  Sleepers  {Dog  of  the).  This 
famous  dog,  admitted  by  Mahomet  to 
heaven,  was  named  Katmir.  The  seven 
noble  yoviths  that  fell  asleep  for  309 
years  had  a  dog,  which  accompanied 
them  to  the  cavern  in  which  they  were 
walled  up.  It  remained  standing  for 
the  whole  time,  and  neither  moved  from 
the  S230t,  ate,  drank,  nor  slept.  {Sale's 
Kora)i,  xviii.,  notes.) 

Tristran's  dog  was  named  Leon  or 
Lion. 

Ulysses'  dog,  Argos,  recognised  him 
after  his  return  from  Troy,  and  died  of 

joy- 

(3)  Dogs,  models  of  their  species  : 
Argoss  (a  Russian  terrier) ;  Baroness 
^Cardiff  (a  Newfoundland)  ;  Black 
Prince  (a  mastiff)  ;  Bow-icoiv  (a  schip- 
perke) ;  C'tir^cy  (a  bull-terrier) ;  Countess 
of  jrarwiek  (a  great  Dane)  ;  Dan  0'' Con- 
nor (an  Irish  water-spaniel)  ;  Dude  (a 
pug)  ;  Fascination  (a  black  cocker  - 
.spaniel) ;  Fritz  (a  French  poodle) ;  Judith 
(a  bloodhound)  ;  Kilcrce  (a  Scotch  ter- 
rier) ;  King  Lud  (a  bulldog) ;  King  of 
the  Heather  (adandie-dinmont) ;  Mikado 


(a  Japanese  spaniel) ;  Olga  (a  deerhound); 
Romeo  (a  King  Charles  simniel)  ;  Pogal 
Krueger  (a  beagle)  ;  Scottish  Leader  (a 
smooth-coated  St.  Bernard) ;  Sensation 
(a  pointer)  ;  Sir  Bed  ire  re  (a  rough - 
coated  St.  Bernard)  ;  Spinavag  (a  grey- 
hound) ;  Toledo  Blade  (an  English  set- 
ter) ;  IVoodinanstcrne  Trefoil  (a  collie). 

(4)  Doa  ill  phrases  : 

A  dog  in  a  doublet.  A  bold,  resolute 
fellow.  In  Germany  and  Flanders  the 
boldest  dogs  were  employed  for  hunting 
the  wild  boar,  and  these  dogs  were 
dressed  in  a  kind  of  buff  doublet  but- 
toned to  their  bodies.  Rubens  and 
Sneyders  have  represented  several  in 
their  jjictures.  A  false  friend  is  called  a 
dog  in  one's  doublet. 

Beturen  dog  and  tcolf.  The  hour  of 
dusk.     "  Fntre  chien  ct  loup.'''' 

St.  Roch  and  his  dog.  Two  insepar- 
ables. "Toby  and  his  dog."  One  is 
never  seen  without  the  other. 

Tlieg  lead  a  cat  and  dog  life.  Alwaj'.s 
quarrelling. 

'To  lead  the  life  of  a  dog.  To  live  a 
wretched  life,  or  a  life  of  debaucliery. 

(•'))  Dog,  «<sff^  metaphoriccdlg  or  sijmbo- 
licullg  : 

The  (log.  DiogSnes,  the  Cynic  (b.c. 
412-323).  When  Alexander  went  to  see 
him,  the  young  King  of  Macedonia 
introduced  himself  with  these  words : 
''  I  am  Alexander,  surnamedthe  Great," 
to  which  the  iihilosopher  replied  :  "And 
I  am  Diogenes,  surnamed  the  Dog." 
The  Athenians  raised  to  his  memory  a 
pillar  of  Parian  marble,  surniounted  by 
a  dog.     {See  Cynic.) 

Dog  of  God.  So  the  Laplanders  call 
the  bear.  The  Norwegians  say  it  ' '  has 
the  strength  of  ten  men  and  the  wit  of 
twelve."  They  never  presume  to  sjieak 
of  it  by  its  proper  appellation,  gaoaztija, 
lest  it  should  revenge  the  insult  on 
their  flocks  and  herds,  but  they  call  it 
Moddaaigja  (the  old  man  with  a  fur 
cloak). 

A  dead  clog.  Something  utterly  worth- 
less. A  phrase  used  two  or  three  times 
in  the  Bible.     {Sec  (6).) 

A  dirtg  dog.  In  the  East  the  dog  is 
still  held  in  abhorrence,  as  the  scavenger 
of  the  streets.  "  Him  that  dieth  in  the 
city  shall  the  dogs  eat"  (1  Kings  xiv. 
11).  The  French  say,  Crotte  coniuie  un 
barbet  (muddy  or  dirty  as  a  poodle), 
whose  hair,  being  very  long,  becomes 
filthy  with  mud  and  dirt.  Generally 
speaking,  "a  dirty  dog"  is  one  morally 
filthy,  and  is  applied  to  those  who  talk 
and  "act  nastily.     Mere  skin  dirt  is  quite 


Bog 


366 


Dog 


another  matter,  and  those  who  are  so 
defiled  we  call  dirty  jj  iff s, 

A  sioii/  (/off.  A  human  being  of  a 
surly  temjier,  like  a  surly  dog. 

Is  thy  serraiit  a  doff,  that  he  should  do 
this  thi))ff  ?  (2  Kings  viii.  12,  13). 
Hazael  means,  "Am  I  such  a  brute  as  to 
set  on  fire  the  strongholds  of  Israel,  slay 
the  young  men  with  the  sword,  and 
dash  their  children  to  the  ground,  as 
thou,  Elijah,  sayest  I  shall  do  when  I 
am  king?  " 

Sydney  Smith  being  asked  if  it  was 
true  that  he  was  about  to  sit  to  Landseer, 
the  animal  painter,  for  his  porti-ait, 
replied,  in  the  words  of  Hazael,  "What! 
is  thy  servant  a  dog,  that  he  should  do 
this  thing?" 

The  Thracian  dog.    Zoilus. 

"  Like  curs,  our  critics  haunt  the  poet's  feast, 
And  feed  on  scraps  refused  liy  every  Kuest  ; 
From  the  old  Tbraciau  dog  they  learned  the 
,     way 

To  snarl  in  want,  and  grumble  o'er  their  prey." 
I'itt :  To  Mr.  .Speiice. 

Doffs  of  war.  The  horrors  of  war, 
especially  famine,  sword,  and  fire. 

"  And  CiBsar's  spirit,  ranging  for  revencre. 
With  Ate  by  bis  siile,  come  hot  from  hell, 
Shall  in  these  confines,  with  a  monarch's  voice, 
Cry  '  Havoc'  and  let  slip  the  dogs  of  war." 

Shakespeare  :  Jitlins  CcBsar,  iii.  1. 

(G)  Dog(/«  Scriptia-elaiiffifaffc), -whether 
dead  or  living,  is  a  most  degrading  ex- 
pression :  "  After  whom  is  the  King  of 
Israel  come  out?  After  a  dead  dog?" 
(1  Sam.  xxiv.  14.)  "  Beware  of  dogs" 
(Phil.  iii.  2),  i.e.  sordid,  noisy  professors. 
Again,  "  Without  are  dogs"  (Rev.  xxii. 
1.5),  i.e.  false  teachers  and  sinners,  who 
sin  andj  return  to  their  sins  (2  Peter 
ii.  21). 

There  is  no  expression  in  the  Bible 
of  the  fidelity,  love,  and  watchful  care 
of  the  dog,  so  highly  honoured  by  our- 
selves. 

(7)  Dog  in  art. 

JJoff,  in  mediaeval  art,  symbolises 
fidelity. 

A  dog  is  represented  as  lying  at  the 
feet  of  St.  Bernard,  St.  Benignus,  and 
St.  Wendelin  ;  as  licking  the  wounds  of 
St.  Roch  ;  as  carrying  a  lighted  torch  in 
representations  of  St.  Dominic. 

Doffs  i)t  monunicnts.  Thedoffh  placed 
at  the  feet  of  women  in  monuments  to 
symbolise  aflfection  and  fidelity,  as  a 
Iwn  is  placed  at  the  feet  of  men  to 
signify  courage  and  magnanimity.  Many 
of  the  Crusaders  are  rei^resented  with 
their  feet  on  a  dog,  to  show  that  they 
followed  the  standard  of  the  Lord  as 
faithfully  as  a  dog  follows  the  footsteps 
of  his  master. 


(8)  Dog  in  proverbs,  fables,  and  pro- 
verbial phrases  : 

Barkinff  dogs  seldom  bite.  {Sec  Bark- 
ing.) 

Doff  donH  eat  dog.  Ecclesia  ecclesiam 
non  decimat ;  government  letters  are 
not  taxed ;  church  lands  pay  no  tithes 
to  the  church. 

A  blaek  doff  has  iralked  over  him.  Said 
of  a  sullen  person.  Horace  tells  us 
that  the  sight  of  a  black  dog  with  its 
pups  was  an  unlucky  omen.  [See  Black 
Dog.) 

A  dog  in  the  manger.  A  chiudish 
fellow,  who  will  not  use  what  is  wanted 
by  another,  nor  yet  let  the  other  have  it 
to  use.  The  allusion  is  to  the  well-known 
fable  of  a  dog  that  fixed  his  place  in  a 
manger,  and  would  not  allow  an  ox  to 
come  near  the  hay. 

Every  dog  has  his  day.  In  Latin, 
"  Jlodie  mihi,  eras  tibi."  "  JVioie  niihi, 
nunc  tibi,  beniffna"  [fortuna].  In  Ger- 
man, "  Hentc  mir,  morffen  dir."  You 
may  crow  over  me  to-day,  but  my  turn 
will  come  by-and-by.  The  Latin  jDro- 
verb,  ^^  Jlodie  mihi,''''  etc.,  means,  "I 
died  to-day,  your  turn  will  come  in 
time."  The  other  Latin  proverb  means, 
fortune  visits  every  man  once.  She 
favours  me  now,  but  she  will  favour 
you  in  your  turn. 

"  Thus  every  dog  at  last  will  have  his  day- 
He  wlio   this   morniug   smiled,  at  night  may 

sorrow  ; 
The  grub  to-day's  a  butterfly  to-morrow." 

Peter  Pindar :  Odes  of  Condolence. 

Give  a  doff  a  bad  name  and  hang  him. 
If  you  want  to  do  anyone  a  wrong, 
throw  dirt  on  him  or  rail  against  him. 

Gone  to  the  dogs.  Gone  to  utter  ruin  ; 
impoverished. 

lie  has  not  a  dog  to  liek  a  dish.  He 
has  quite  cleared  out.  He  has  taken 
away  everything. 

lie  who  has  a  mind  to  beat  his  dog  will 
easily  find  a  stick.  In  Latin,  '''Qui  vuH 
eccdcre  canem  facile  inrenit  fustcm.''''  If 
you  want  to  abuse  a  person,  you  will 
easily  find  something  to  blame.  Dean 
Swift  says,  "  If  you  want  to  throw  a 
stone,  every  lane  will  furnish  one." 

"  To  him  who  wills,  ways  will  not  be 
wanting."  "  Where  there's  a  will  there's 
a  way. ' ' 

Hungry  dogs  tvill  eat  dirty  pudding. 
Those  really  hungry  are  not  particular 
about  what  they  eat,  and  are  by  no 
means  dainty.  When  Darius  in  his 
flight  from  Greece  drank  from  a  ditch 
defiled  with  dead  carcases,  he  declared 
he  had  never  drunk  so  pleasantly  before. 

It  teas  the  story  of  the  dog  and  the 
shadow— i.e.   of  one  who  throws   good 


Dog 

money  after  bad ;  of  one  who  gives 
ccrta  pro  incertis.  The  allusion  is  to 
the  well-known  fable. 

"  IlUulit  siierii's,  ac  den'tilnis  aera  niordit." 
(Down  sank  tbe  meat  in  the  stream  for  the 
fishes  to  hoard  it.) 

Love  me  love  my  dorj.  "  Qui  m^aimc 
a'lme  mon  chioi,"  or  '"  Qtii  aimc  Bertrand 
ainie  son  chieii." 

Old  dogs  will  not  learn  new  tricls. 
People  in  old  tige  do  not  readily  conf onn 
to  new  waj's. 

To  eall  off  the  doc/s.  To  break  up 
a  disagreeable  conversation.  In  the 
chase,  if  the  dogs  are  on  the  wi-ong 
track,  the  huntsman  calls  them  off. 
(French,  ronipre  les  ehiens.) 

Throiv  it  to  the  dogs.  Throw  it  away, 
it  is  useless  and  worthless. 

What!  keep  a  dog  and  harJc  myself! 
Must  I  keep  servants  and  myself  do  their 
work? 

YoH  are  like  Xerille''s  dog,  irhieh  runs 
aivay  when  it  is  called.     (See  Chien.) 

(9)  Dog,  Dogs,  in  iSuperstitions  : 
Bogs  howl  at  death.     A  wide-spread 

superstition. 

"  In  the  rabbinical  book  it  saith 
The  dogs  howl  when,  with  icy  breath, 
Great  Sanimael,  the  angel  of  death, 
Takes  thro'  the  town  his  flight." 

Lonrifellow  :  Golde>i  Leyend,  iii. 

The  hair  of  the  dog  that  bit  you.  When 
a  man  has  had  a  debauch,  he  is  advised 
to  take  next  morning  "  a  hair  of  the 
same  dog,"  in  allusion  to  an  ancient 
notion  that  the  bunat  hair  of  a  dog  is  an 
antidote  to  its  bite. 

(10)  Dog,  to  express  the  male  of  animals, 
as  dog-ape,  dog-fox,  dog- otter. 

(11)  Dog,  applied  to  inferior  plants  : 
dog-brier,  dog-beiTj',  dog-cabbage,  dog- 
daisy,  dog-fennel,  dog-leek,  dog-lichen, 
dog-mercury,  dog-parsley,  dog-violets 
(which  have  no  perfume),  dog- wheat. 
{See  below,  Dog-geass,  Dog-eose. 

Dog  and  Duck.  A  public-house  sign, 
to  announce  that  ducks  were  hunted  by 
dogs  within.  The  sport  was  to  see  the 
duck  dive,  and  the  dog  after  it.  At 
Lambeth  there  was  a  famous  pleasure- 
resort  so  called,  on  the  spot  where  Beth- 
lehem Hospital  now  stands. 

Dcg-cheap.  A  perversion  of  the 
old  Unglish  god-chepe  (a  good  bargain) . 
French,  bon  marche  (good-cheap  or  bar- 
gain). 

"The  sack  ....  would  have  bought  me  lights 
as  gond-cheap  at  the  dearest  chandler's  in  Euroi)e. " 
~Shakespeare:  1  Henry  IV.,  iii.  3. 

Dog-days.  Days  of  great  heat.  The 
Homans  called  the  six  or  eight  hottest 
weeks  of  the  summer  canicula'res  dies. 


367  Dog-'whipper 


According  to  their  theoiy,  the  dog- star  or 
Sirius,  rising  -with  the  sun,  added  to  its 
heat,  and  the  dog-days  bore  the  com- 
bined heat  of  the  dog- star  and  the  sun. 
(July  3rd  to  August  11th.) 

Dog-fall  (in  -wrestling),  when  both 
wrestlers  fall  together. 

Dog-grass  (trifieuin  repens).  Grass 
eaten  by  dogs  when  they  have  lost  their 
appetite  ;  it  acts  as  an  emetic  and  pur- 
gative. 

Dog -head  (in  machinerj-).  That 
which  bites  or  holds  the  gun-flint. 

Dog-headed  Tribes  of  India.  Men- 
tioned iu  tlie  Italian  romance  of  Gueri'uo 

21(!<c!ii'  no. 

Dog-Latin.  Pretended  or  mongi-el 
Latin.  An  excellent  example  is  Stevens' 
definition  of  a  kitchen  : 

As  the  law  classically  pxuresses  it,  a  kitchen  is 

"  camera  necessaria  in-n  >i-  i- I.,irr  ;  cum  same- 

paunis,  stewpannis,   -  ■ --ero,  coalhol,., 

stovis,smoak-jackn  ;  i'  -    :  i    ,  iim,  lioJlamliiiM, 

fr.vanduni,  et  i)luni-iip!i|:iij-;i>i  .Milium.  .  .  "— V 
Lair  Jicport  (Daniel  v.  Dishcluut  t. 

Dog-leeoli  (A).  A  dog  -  doctor. 
Formerly  applied  to  a  medical  practi- 
tioner ;  it  expresses  great  coutemijt. 

Dog-rose.  Botanical  name,  Cynor- 
rhodos — I.e.  Greek  kuiio-rodon,  dog-rose  ; 
so  called  because  it  was  suj^posed  to  cure 
the  bite  of  a  mad  dog  {liosa  Canina, 
wild  brier) . 

"  A  morsu  vero  [i.e.  of  a  mad  dog]  uuicum  re- 
medium  oraculo  uuodani  nuper  refnTtum.  radi.x 
sylvestris  rosa;,  quae  cynorrhodos  aiipeUatur."— 
ITiiuj  :  Natural  History,  viii.  63  ;  x.w.  H. 

Dog-sick.  Sick  as  a  dog.  We  also 
say  "Sick  as  a  cat."  The  Bible  speaks 
of  dogs  "  retui-ning  to  their  vomit 
again"  (Prov.  xxvi.  11  ;  2  Pet.  ii.  2'2). 

Dog-sleep  (A).  A  pretended  sleep. 
Dogs  seem  to  sleep  with  "  one  eye  open." 

Dog-star.  The  brightest  star  in  the 
fii-mament.     (.S«?  Dog-dats.) 

Dog-vane  (A).    A  cockade. 

"  Dog-vane  is  a  term  familiarly  applied  to  a 
cockade."— .S'mj/Hf  :  .'■bailors'  Word-hnnk-. 

Dog-'watch.  A  corruption  of  dodge- 
watch  :  two  short  watches,  one  from  four 
to  six,  and  tlie  other  from  six  to  eight  iu 
the  evening,  introduced  to  dodge  the 
routine,  or  prevent  the  same  men  alwa3's 
keei^ing  watch  at  the  same  time.  (See 
Watch.) 

Dog-whipper  (A).  A  beadle  who 
whips  all  dogs  from  the  precincts  of  a 
church.  At  one  time  there  was  a  church 
officer  so  called.  Even  so  recently  as 
1856  Mr.  John  Pickard  was  appointed 


Dog-whipping 


3G8 


Dogmatic  Facts 


"  dog-whipper "  in  Exeter  Cathedral, 
"  in  the  room  of  Mr.  Charles  Reynolds, 
deceased."     {Exeter  Gazette.) 

Dog-whipping  Day.  October  18th 
(St.  Luke's  Day).  It  is  said  that  a  dog 
once  swallowed  the  consecrated  wafer 
in  York  IMinster  on  this  day. 

Dogs  (a  military  term).  The  17th 
Lancers  or  Duke  of  Cambridge's  Own 
Lancers.  The  crest  of  this  famous 
cavahy  regiment  is  a  Death's  Head  and 
Cross-bones,  OR  GLORY,  whence  the 
acrostic  Death  Or  Glory  (D.O.Cx.). 

The  Spartan  injunction,  when  tlieytiiui!,'  solilior 
\v;is  presentefl  with  his  shield,  was,  "  With  tliis, 
III-  On  this,"  which  meant  the  same  thini,'. 

Dogs,  in  Stock-Exchange  phraseology, 
means  Newfoundland  Telegraph  shares 
^that  is,  Newfoundland  dogs.  {^ee 
Stock-Exchange  Slang.) 

Dogs.  Itilc  of  Doffs.  WTien  Green- 
wich was  a  place  of  royal  residence,  the 
kennel  for  the  monarch's  hounds  was  on 
the  opposite  side  of  the  river,  hence 
called  the  "  Isle  of  Dogs." 

Dogs  (Greei/).  Extinct  like  the  Dodo. 
Rrederode  said  to  Count  Louis,  *'  I 
wotdd  the  whole  race  of  bisliojis  and 
cai'dinals  were  extinct,  like  that  of 
green  dogs."  {Motleij  :  J>i(tch  ItepuhUr, 
part  ii.  5.) 

Dogs'-ears.  Tlic  corners  of  leaves 
crumpled  and  folded  down. 

Boas'  -eared.  Leaves  so  crumpled  and 
ttinied  up.  The  eai-s  of  many  dogs  turn 
down  and  seem  quite  limp. 

Dogs'-meat.  Food  unfit  for  con- 
sumption by  human  beings. 

Ikir/s'-meat  and  cats' -meat.  Food  cheap 
and  nasty. 

Dog's-nose.    Gin  and  beer. 

•"  Ddgs-nnse,  which  is,  I  helieve,  a  mixture  of 
gin  and  heer.' 
"  "  So  it  is,'  said  an  nUl  lady."— P/c/iificfc  Papers. 

Dogged.  He  dor/f/ed  me,  ?'.c.  followed 
me  about  like  a  dog  ;  shadowed  me. 


Dogged  {2  syl.). 
like  a  dog. 


Sullen,   snappish, 


Do'gares'sa  (f/=j).  The  wife  of  a 
doge. 

Dogberry.  An  ignorant,  self-satis- 
fied, overbearing,  but  good  -  natured 
night-constable  in  Shakesjjeare's  Maeh 
Ado  about  Nothhif/. 

Doge  (1  syl.,  f/=zj).  The  chief  magis- 
trate in  Venice  while  it  Avas  a  Republic. 
The  first  duke  or  doge  wa3  Anafesto 
Paoluc'cio,  created  697.  The  chief 
magistrate  of  Gen'oa  was  called  a  doge 


dovm  to  1797,  when  the  Republican 
form  of  Government  was  aboli.slied  by 
the  French.  (Latin,  da.r,  a  "duke"  or 
''  leader." 

"  For  six  hundred  years  ....  her  [Venice's] 
povernment  was  an  elective  monarchy,  her  .... 
(Ir)Ke  possessing,  in  early  times  at  le.ast,  as  much 
independent  authority  as  any  other  Kumpean 
sovereign."— if«^/ri«;  Stones  of  Vetiice,  vol.  i.  chap. 
i.  p.  3. , 

Doge.  The  ceremony  of  wedding  the 
Adriatic  was  instituted  in  1 171  by  Pope 
Alexander  III.,  who  gave  the  doge  a  gold 
ring  from  off  liis  own  finger  in  token  of  t 
the  victory  acliieved  by  the  Venetian 
fieet  at  Istria  over  Frederick  Barbarossa, 
in  defence  of  the  Pope's  quarrel.  When 
his  Holiness  gave  tlie  ring  he  desired  the 
doge  to  throw  a  similar  one  into  the  sea 
every  year  on  Ascension  Day,  in  com- 
memoration of  the  event.     [}ice  Bucen- 

TAUE.) 

JJirtij  doq.     (Sec  finder  Doo,  No.  5.) 
This  alludes  more  to  the  animal  called 
a  dog,  but  implies  tlic  idea  of  badi/cs.s. 

Dogget.  J>of/i/et\s  coat  and  hndejc. 
The  first  prize  in  the  Thames  rowing- 
match,  given  on  tlie  1st  of  August  every 
year.  So  called  from  Thomas  Dogget, 
an  actor  of  Drury  Lane,  wlio  signalised 
the  accession  of  George  I.  to  the  throne 
by  giving  a  watei-man's  coat  and  badge 
to  the  winner  of  the  race.  Tlie  Fish- 
mongers' Company  add  a  guinea  to  the 
jirize.  The  race  is  from  the  "Swan  " 
at  London  Bridge  to  the  "Swan"  at 
Chelsea. 

Doggerel.  Inferior  sort  of  verse  in 
rhymes. 

Dogma  (Greek).  A  religious  doc- 
trine formally  stated.  It  now  means  a 
statement  resting  on  the  ipse  dixit  of 
the  speaker.  Dogmatic  teaching  used  to 
mean  tlie  teaching  of  religious  doctrines, 
but  now  dogmatic  means  overbearing' 
and  dictatorial.  (Greek  dofjma,  gen. 
(h(/ni(ttos,  a  matter  of  opinion ;  verb 
dokco,  to  think,  whence  doyinatizo.) 

Dogmatic  Facts. 

(1)  Tlie  supreme  authority  of  the  Pope 
of  Rome  over  all  churches. 

("2)  His  right  to  decide  arbitrarily  all 
controversies. 

(3)  His  right  to  convoke  councils  at 
will. 

(4)  His  right  to  revise,  repeal,  or  con- 
firm decrees. 

(5)  His  right  to  issue  decrees  bearing 
on  discipline,  morals  and  doctrine. 

(6)  The  Pope  is  the  centre  of  com- 
munion, and  separation  fi'om  him  is_ 
excommunication . 


Dogmatic  School 


3(19 


Dolorous 


(7)  He  has  ultimate  authority  to  ap- 
point all  bishops. 

(8)  He  has  power  to  depose  any  eccle- 
siastic. 

(9)  He  has  power  to  judge  every 
question  of  doctrine,  and  pronounce  in- 
fallibly what  the  Church  shall  or  shall 
not  accept. 

Dogmatic  School  of  Medicine- 
FoMuded  Ijy  Hippocrates,  and  so  called 
because  it  set  out  certain  dogmas  or 
theoretical  principles  which  it  made  the 
basis  of  practice. 

Dogmatic  Theology  is  that  which 
treats  of  the  doij'inata  (doctrines)  of 
religion. 

Doiley.     {Sec  Doyley.) 

Doit  (1  syl.).  Not  a  doit.  The  doit 
was  a  Scotch  silver  coin  =:  one- third  of 
a  farthing.  In  England  the  doit  was  a 
base  coin  of  small  value  prohibited  by 
3  Henry  V.  c.  1. 

"AVlieii  they  will  not  pivc  a  doit  to  relieve  a 
lame  lie,t,';,'ar,  tliey  will  lay  out  ten  to  see  a  deail 
IhiMaw." —Sliukcspeare  :  The  Tempest,  ii.  2. 

Dola'bra.    A  Roman  axe. 

Dulahra  fossUria.  The  pickaxe  used 
by  miners  and  excavators. 

JJuIubra  poiitiJicdHs.  The  priest's 
hatchet  for  slaughtering  animals. 

Dolce  far  Niente  (Italian).  De- 
liglitful  idleness.  Pliuy  has  "Ji<ci(/u/iiin 
tdiiH'/t  lii/iil  ((f/i-re'^  (Eyi.  viii.  9). 

Doldrums  (The).  The  name  given 
to  that  region  of  the  ocean  near  tlie  equa- 
tor noted  for  calms,  squalls,  and  baffling 
winds,  between  the  n.e.  and  s.E.  trade- 
winds. 
•"  But  from  the  liluff-liead,  wliero  I  watched  to-day, 

1  sjiw  her  in  the  doldrums." 

Byvon:  T/ie /staiirf,  canto  ii.  stanza  il. 

1)1  the  doldrnms.    In  the  dumps. 

Dole,  lamentation,  from  the  Latin 
doho,  to  grieve. 

"  lie  [the  dwarf]  found  the  dead  bodies,  where- 
fore he  made  great  dole."— i'.  Lanier  :  Kinij  Arthur, 
book  i.  chap.  xiv. 

Dole,  a  portion  allotted,  is  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  ddl,  a  iJortion. 

•'  Heaven  has  in  store  a  precious  dole." 
KeUle:  Christian  Year  (4tU  .Sunday  afier Trinity). 

Happy  man  he  his  dole.  May  his  share 
or  lot  be  that  of  a  hapi^y  or  fortunate  man. 

"  Wlif-rein,  haiMiy  man  lie  his  dole,  I  trust  tliat  I 

Shall  not  si^eed  worst,  and  that  very  iiuickly." 

Damon  and  J'l/thias,  i.  177. 

Dole-fish.  The  share  of  fish  allotted 
to  each  one  of  a  company  of  fishermen 
in  a  catch.  Dole  =  the  iiart  dealt  to 
anyone.  (Anglo-Saxon,  ddl  or  decl,  from 
the  verb  dal-an,  to  di\'ide  into  parts.) 

24 


Doll  Money.  A  lady  of  Duxfortf 
left  a  sum  of  money  to  be  given  away 
annually  in  the  parish,  and  to  be  called 
I>oU  Moncij.  Doll  is  a  corruption  of 
dole,  Saxon  ddl  (a  share  distributed). 

Dollar.  Marked  thus  $,  either  scutum 
or  8,  a  dollar  being  a  "piece  of  eight" 
[reals].  The  two  lines  indicate  a  con- 
traction, as  in  lb. 

The  word  is  a  variant  of  thaler 
(Low  German,  daliler ;  Danish,  daler), 
and  means  "a  valley,"  our  dale.  The 
coimts  of  Schlick,  at  the  close  of  the 
fifteenth  centurj^  extracted  from  the 
mines  at  Jonchini\s  thai  (Joachim'svalley) 
silver  which  they  coined  into  ounce- 
pieces.  These  pieces,  called  Joachini' s- 
thalcrs,  gained  such  high  repute  that 
they  became  a  standard  coin.  Other 
coins  being  made  like  them  were  called 
thalcrs  only.  The  American  dollar  equals 
100  cents,  in  English  money  a  little  more 
than  four'  shilhngs. 

Dolly  Murrey.  A  character  in 
Crabbe's  Uurouijlt,  who  died  inlaying 
cards. 

"  '  A  vole  !  a  vole  ! '  she  cried,  '  'tis  fairly  won.'  . . 
This  said  she,  gently,  with  a  single  sigh, 
Died  as  one  taught  and  practised  how  to  die." 
Crubbe :  liorouyk. 

Dolly  Shop.  A  shop  where  rags  and 
refuse  are  bought  and  sold.  So  called 
from  the  black  doll  suspended  over  it  as 
a  sign.  Dolly  shojjs  are,  in  reality,  no 
better  than  unlicensed  pawnshops.  A 
black  doll  used  to  be  the  sign  hung  out 
to  denote  the  sale  of  silks  and  musUns 
which  were  fabricated  by  Indians. 

Dolmen.  A  name  given  in  France 
to  what  we  term  "  cromlechs. "  These 
ancient  remains  are  often  called  by  the 
rural  population  devils'  tables,  fairies' 
tables,  and  so  on.  (Celtic,  stone  tables.) 
It  consists  of  a  slab  resting  on  unhewn 
upright  stones.  Plural  dolmens  [dot,  a 
table  ;  men,  a  stone). 

"The  Indian  dolmens  .  .  .  may  he  said  to  he 
identical  with  thoseof  Western  Eurore."— ,/.  Lub- 
buck:  I'rehiatoric  Times,  chap.  v.  p.  I'jy. 

Dolopa'tos.  A  French  metrical  ver- 
sion of  San'dabar's  I'arahles,  written  by 
Hebers  or  Herbers  or  Prince  PhiliiDpe, 
afterwards  called  Philippe  le  Hardi. 
Dolopa'tos  is  the  Sicilian  king,  and 
Virgil  the  tutor  of  his  sou  Lucinien. 
{See  Seven  Wise  Masters.) 

Dolorous  Dettie  {TIii^.  John  Skel- 
tou  wrote  an  elegy  on  Henry  Percy, 
fourth  Earl  of  Northumberland,  who 
fell  a  victim  to  the  avarice  of  Henry 
VII.  (U89).  This  elegy  he  entitled 
thus:  "Upon  the  Dolorous  Dettie  and 


Dolpliiil 


S7d 


l)oinimcan3 


Much  Lamentable  Chaunce  of  the  Most 
Honorable  Earl  of  Northumberland." 

Dolphin.  Called  a  sea-goose  (oie  de 
mcr)  from  the  fonu  of  its  snout,  termed 
in  French  bcc  d'oic  (a  goose's  beak).  The 
dolphm  is  noted  for  its  changes  of  colour 
when  taken  out  of  the  water. 

"  Partiupr  day 
Dies  like  the  dolphin,  whom  each  pang  iralnies 
With  a  new  colour  as  it  gasps  away, 
The  last  still  loveliest." 

Byron :  Childe  Harold,  canto  iv.  stanza  29. 

Dolphin  {The),  in  mediaeval  art, 
S3'mboliscs  social  love. 

Dom.  A  title  applied  in  the  Middle 
Ages  to  the  Pope,  and  at  a  somewhat 
later  period  to  other  Church  dignitaries. 
It  is  now  restricted  to  priests  and  choir 
monks  among  the  Benedictines,  and  some 
few  other  monastic  orders,  as  Dom  Ma- 
billon,  Dom  Calmet.  Tlie  Spanisli  don, 
Portuguese  dom,Germai\  row, and  French 
dr,  are  pretty  well  etiuivaleut  to  it. 
(Latin,  doiii'iniis.) 

Dombey  {Florence).  A  motherle.ss 
child,  iLungeriug  and  thirsting  to  be 
loved,  but  regarded  with  frigid  indiffer- 
ence by  her  father,  who  thinks  that 
sous  alone  are  worthy  of  his  regard. 
(Dickens  :  Ihmhei/  and  Son.) 

Mr.  Bonihctj.  A  self-sufficient,  purse- 
proud,  frigid  merchant,  who  feels  satis- 
fied there  is  but  one  Dombey  in  the 
world,  and  that  is  himself.  {Dickens: 
Dombey  and  Son.) 

Dom-Daniel.  The  abode  of  evil 
spirits,  gnomes,  and  enchanters,  some- 
where '-under  the  roots  of  the  ocean," 
but  not  far  from  Babylon,  (Continuation 
of  the  Arabian  Tides.) 

"  In  the  Dnmrtaniel  caverns 
Under  the  roots  of  the  ocean."    Southey. 

Domesday  Book  consists  of  two 
volumes,  one  a  large  folio,  and  the  other 
a  quarto,  the  material  of  each  being 
vellum.  It  was  formerly  kept  in  the 
Exchequer,  under  three  different  locks 
and  keys,  but  is  now  kept  in  the  Record 
Office.     The  date  of  the  survey  is  I0S6. 

Northumberland.  Cumberland,  West- 
moreland, and  Durham  are  not  included 
in  the  survey,  though  parts  of  Westmore- 
land and  Cumberland  are  taken. 

The  value  of  all  estates  is  given, 
firstly,  as  in  the  time  of  the  Confessor  ; 
secondly,  when  bestowed  by  the  Con- 
queror ;  and,  thirdly,  at  the  time  of  the 
survey.  It  is  also  called  The  King''s 
Book,  and  The  JFinchester  Roll  because 
it  was  kept  there.  Printed  in  facsimile 
in  1783  and  1816. 

Stow  says  the  book    was    so    called 


because  it  was  deposited  in  a  part  of 
Winchester  Cathedral  called  Dutniis-dei, 
and  that  the  word  is  a  contraction  of 
Domus-dei  book  ;  more  Hkely  it  is  con- 
nected with  the  previous  surveys  made 
by  the  Saxon  kings,  and  called  dvm-hocs 
(libri  jutlicia'les),  because  every  case  of 
disjiute  was  decided  by  an  ajipeal  to 
these  registers. 

"  Then  seyde  Gamolyn  to  the  .lustice  .  . 
Tliou  hast  wiVL-n  domes  that  bin  evil  di^lit, 
1  will  sitteu   iu    thy   sole,   and   dresseu   hira 

aright." 
Chaucer :  Canterbury  Tales  (.The  Cookes  Tale). 

Domestic.  England'' s  domesiic  poet. 
William   Cowper,  author  of  The  Tmk. 

(1731-1800.) 

Domestic  Poultry,  in  Dryden's  Hind 
(Did  I'authcr,  means  the  Roman  Catholic 
clergy.  So  called  from  an  establishment 
of  priests  in  the  private  chapel  at  White- 
hall. The  nuns  are  tenned  "sister 
partlet  with  her  hooded  head." 

Domiciliary  Visit  (.i).  An  official 
visit  to  search  the  liouse. 

Dominic  (.SY.).  (1170-1221.)  A  Span- 
ish jniest  who  founded  the  Incpii.sition, 
and  tlie  order  called  the  Dominicans  or 
Preaching  Friars.  He  was  called  by  the 
Poj^e  "  Inquisitor  -  General,"  and  was 
canonised  by  Gregory  IX. 

V  Some  say  the  Inquisition  existed  in 
1184,  when  Donunic  was  under  fouiieen 
years  of  age. 

He  is  represented  with  a  sparrow  at  his 
side,  and  a  dog  carrying  in  its  mouth  a 
burning  torch.  The  devil,  it  is  said,  ap- 
peared to  the  saint  in  the  form  of  a 
spaiTow,  and  the  dog  refers  to  a  dream 
which  his  mother  had  during  pregnancy. 
She  dreamt  that  she  had  given  birth  to 
a  dog,  spotted  with  black  and  white 
spots,  which  lighted  the  world  witli  a 
burning  torch. 

He  is  also  represented  sometimes  with  a  city  in 
his  hand  and  a  star  either  on  his  forehead  or  on 
his  hreast  ;  sometimes  also  with  a  sword  in  his 
hand  and  a  pile  of  hooks  hurning  beside  him,  to 
denote  his  severity  with  heretics. 

Dominical  Letters.  The  letters 
which  denote  the  Sundaj's  or  dies  do- 
niin'iea.  The  first  seven  letters  of  the 
alphabet  are  employed ;  so  that  if  A 
stands  for  the  first  Sunday  in  the  year, 
the  other  six  letters  will  stand  for  the 
other  days  of  the  week,  and  the  octave 
Sunday  will  come  round  to  A  again.  In 
this  case  A  will  be  the  Sunday  or  Do- 
minical Letter  for  the  whole  year. 

Domin'icans.  Preaching  friars 
founded  by  Dominic  de  Guzman,  at 
Toulouse,  in  1215.    Fonnerly  called  iu 


Dorpijiie 


371 


Bondasch. 


Englaud  Black  Friars,  from  their  black 
dress,  and  in  France  Jac'ob'uis,  because 
their  mother-establishment  in  Paris  was 
in  the  Eue  St.  Jacques. 

Dom'inie  Sampson.  A  village 
schoolmaster  and  scholar,  poor  as  a 
chiu'ch  mouse,  and  modest  as  a  gii'l. 
He  cites  Latin  like  a  porcus  Utcra'ritm, 
and  exclaims  "Prodigious!"  {Scott: 
Gicj  Manncrinf/.)     {See  Stilling.) 

Dominions.  One  of  the  orders  of 
angels,  symbolised  in  Christian  art  by  an 
ensign. 

Domino  {A).  A  hood  worn  by 
canons ;  a  mask. 

"Ce  num,  qu'on  donnait  autrefois,  par  allusion 
a  queliiue  passage  de  la  liturgie,  au  caHio/;  dont 
les  pretres  ge  couvreut  la  tete  et  les  epaules  pen- 
dant I'biver,  ne  designe  auJDurd'hui  iiu'un  liabit 
de  deguisement  pour  les  ha.\%xa^innb&.  —BuuiUet : 
Dictiounaire  des  Sciences,  etc. 

Dom'inoes  (3  syl.).  The  teeth  ;  also 
called  ivories.  Dominoes  are  made  of 
ivory. 

Domisel'lus.  The  son  of  a  king, 
prince,  knight,  or  lord  before  he  has 
entered  on  the  order  of  knighthood. 
Also  an  attendant  on  some  abbot  or 
nobleman.  The  person  domiciled  in  your 
house.  Hence  the  king's  body-guards 
were  called  his  damoiseaux  or  dani.sels. 

Froissart  styles  Richard  II.  le  jeune 
damoisel  Ilichart.  Similarly  Louis  VII. 
{Le  Jcunc)  was  called  the  roijcd  datnsel. 

"  Damoisel  ou  Danioiseau  designait  autrefois 
les  flls  de  cliovaliers,  de  barons,  et  toutes  les 
jeunes  gentilshommes  qui  n'etaient  pas  encore 
cbevalievs.  On  le  donnait  aussi  aux  flls  des  rois 
qui  n'etaient  pas  encore  en  etat  de  porter  les 
amies."— Byu(7;t<  ;  Did.  Universel. 

Domisellus  and  domisella  are  diminu- 
tives of  dombuts,  a  lord.  In  old  French 
we  find  danioiseau  and  dainoiselle.  The 
word  Ma-demoiselle  is  ma  domisella  or 
damoiselle. 

Don  is  do-on,  as  "  Don  your  bonnet," 
{Sec  Doff,  Dup.) 

"  Tlien  up  bo  rose,  and  donned  his  clothes, 
And  dupp"d  the  cbainl)er  door." 

Slialcespeare :  Hamlet,  ir.  5. 
Don.    A  man  of  mark,  an  aristocrat. 
At  the  universities  the  masters,  fellows, 
and  noblemen  are  termed  do)is.  (Spanish.) 

Don  Giovan'ni.  Mozart's  best  opera. 
{See  Don  Juan.) 

Don  Ju'an.  A  native  of  SeVille,  son 
of  Don  Jose  and  Donna  Inez,  a  blue- 
stocking. When  Juan  was  sixteen  years 
old  he  got  into  trouble  with  Donna  Juha, 
and  was  sent  by  his  mother,  then  a  widow, 
on  his  travels.  His  adventures  form  the 
story  of  the  poem,  which  is  incomplete. 
{Byron :  Bon  Juan.) 


A  Bon  Juan.  A  libertine  of  the  aris- 
tocratic class.  The  original  of  this  cha- 
racter was  Don  Juan  Teno'rio  of  Seville, 
who  lived  in  the  fourteenth  century. 
The  traditions  concerning  him  have 
been  di-amatised  by  Tirso  de  Mo'lina; 
thence  passed  into  Italy  and  France. 
Gliick  has  a  musical  ballet  of  Bon  Juan, 
and  Mozart  has  immortaUsed  the  cha- 
racter in  his  opera  of  Bo)i  Giovanni{l'tS7). 

Don  Quixote  (2  syl.).  A  gaunt 
country  gentleman  of  La  Mancha,  gentle 
and  dignified,  affectionate  and  simple- 
minded,  but  so  crazed  by  reading  books 
of  knight-errantry  that  he  beheves  him- 
self called  upon  to  redress  the  wrongs  of 
the  whole  world,  and  actually  goes  forth 
to  avenge  the  oppressed  and  run  a  tilt 
with  their  oppressors.  The  word  Quixote 
means  The  cuish-arnied.  (.SVr  Quixotic.) 

A  Bon  Quixote.  A  dreamy,  unprac- 
tical man,  with  a  "  bee  in  his  bonnet." 

Donation  of  Pepin  {The).  When 
Pepin  conquered  Ataulf  the  ex-archate 
of  Ravenna  fell  into  his  hands.  Pepin 
gave  both  the  ex-archate  and  the  Re- 
public of  Rome  to  the  Pope,  and  this 
munificent  gift  is  the  famous  "Dona- 
tion "  ou  which  rested  the  whole  fabric 
of  the  temporal  power  of  the  Popes  of 
Rome  (a.d.  755). 

Victor  Emmanuel,  King  of  Italy,  dis- 
possessed the  Pope  of  his  temporal 
dominions,  and  added  the  Papal  States 
to  the  united  kingdom  of  Italy  (1870). 

Don'atists.  Followers  of  Dona'tus, 
a  Numidian  bishoii  who  opposed  Ceci- 
lia'nus.  Their  chief  dogma  is  that  the 
outward  church  is  nothing,  "for  the 
letter  killeth,  it  is  the  spirit  that  giveth 
Hfe."     (Founded  314.) 

Doncaster.  Sigebert,  monk  of  Gem- 
blours,  in  1100,  derived  this  word  from 
Thong- ceaster,  the  "  Castle  of  the 
thong,"  and  says  that  Hengist  and 
Horsa  purchased  of  the  British  king  as 
much  land  as  he  could  encomijass  with  a 
leather  thong.  The  thong  was  cut  into 
strips,  and  encompassed  the  land  occu- 
pied by  the  city  of  Doncaster. 

This  is  the  old  tale  of  Dido  and  the 
hide,  and  so  is  the  Russian  Yakutsks. 
{See  Bursa.) 

V  Of  course  it  means  the  "  City  ou  the 
river  Don."  (Celtic,  Bon,  that  which 
sj^reads.) 

Dondasch'.  An  Oriental  giant  con- 
temporary with  Seth,  to  whose  service 
he  was  attached.  He  needed  no  weapons, 
as  he  could  destroy  anything  by  the  mere 
force  of  his  arms. 


Done  Brown 


372 


Doomsday 


Done  Brown.  He  was  done  Iroioi. 
Comijlctely  bamboozled  or  made  a  fool 
of.  This  is  a  variety  of  the  mauy  ex- 
Ijressious  of  a  similar  meaning  con- 
nected with  cooking,  such  as  "  I  gave 
him  a  roasting,"  "I  cooked  liis  goose," 
"  I  cut  him  into  mince-meat,"  "I  put 
him  into  a  pretty  stew,"  "  I  settled  his 
hasli,"  "  Ho  was  dished  up,"  "  He  was 
well  dressed  "  [di'ubbed] ,  ' '  He  was 
served  out,"  etc,     (6Ve  Cooking.) 

Eonc  For  or  Regularly  done  for. 
Utterly  ridned.  This  "for"  is  the 
adverb  =z  thoroughly,  very  common  as  a 
prefix. 

Done  Up.  Thoroughly  tii-ed  and 
wearied  out.  Up  means  ended,  com- 
plettd,  as  the  "game  is  uj) "  (over, 
finished),  and  adverbially  it  means 
"  comijletely,"  hence  to  be  "done  up" 
is  to  be  exhausted  completely. 

Don'egild  (3  syl.).  The  wicked 
mother  of  Alia,  King  of  Northumber- 
land. Hating  Cunstance  because  she 
was  a  Christian,  she  put  her  on  a  raft 
with  her  infant  son,  and  turned  her 
adrift.  When  Alia  returned  from  Scot- 
land and  discovered  tliis  cruelty  of  his 
mother,  he  put  her  to  death.  {Uhanccr  : 
Man  of  Lawcs  Talc.) 

V  The  tradition  of  St.  Mungo  re- 
sembles the  Man  of  Lanes  Tale  in  many 
resj)ects. 

Donkey.  An  ass.  It  was  made  to 
rhj-me  with  "  monkej',"  but  is  never  now 
so  pronounced.  The  word  means  a  little 
tawnjr  or  dun-coloured  animal. 

Donlccij.  The  cross  of  the  donkey's 
back  is  popularly  attributed  to  the 
honour  conferred  on  the  beast  by  our 
Lord,  who  rode  on  an  ass  in  "  His  tri- 
umjihant  entry  "  into  Jerusalem  on  Palm 
Sunday.     {See  Christian  Traditions.) 

The  donkey  means  one  tinny  and  the 
driver  another.  Different  i^eople  see  from 
different  standpoints,  their  own  interest 
in  every  case  directing  their  judgment. 
The  allusion  is  to  a  fable  in  Phfcdrus, 
where  a  donkey-driver  exhorts  his  don- 
key to  flee,  as  the  enemy  is  at  hand.  The 
donkey  asks  if  the  enemy  will  load  him 
with  double  pack-saddles.  "No,"  says 
the  man.  "Then,"  replies  the  donkey, 
"  what  care  I  whether  you  are  my  mas- 
ter or  someone  else  ?  " 

To  ride  the  black  donkey.  To  be  pig- 
headed, obstinate  Uke  a  donkey.  Black 
is  added,  not  so  much  to  designate  the 
colour,  as  to  express  what  is  bad. 

Two  more,  and  up  goes  the  donkey — 
\.e.  two  pennies  more,  and  the  donkey 


shall  be  balanced  on  the  top  of  the  pole 
or  ladder.  It  is  said  to  a  braggart,  and 
means — what  j^ou  have  said  is  wonderful, 
but  if  we  admit  it  without  gainsaying 
we  shall  soon  be  treated  with  something 
still  more  astounding. 

Wlio  ate  tlie  donlccy  ?  When  the  French 
were  in  their  flight  Irom  Spain,  after  the 
battle  of  Vittoria,  some  stragglers  entered 
a  village  and  demanded  rations.  The 
villagers  killed  a  donkey,  and  served  it 
to  their  hated  foes.  Next  day  they  con- 
tinued their  flight,  and  were  waylaid  by 
the  villagers,  who  assaulted  them  most 
murderously,  jeering  them  as  they  did 
so  with  the  shout,  "Who  ate  the  don- 
key h" 

Who  stole  the  donkey  ?  This  was  for 
many  years  a  jeer  against  policemen. 
When  the  force  was  first  established  a 
donkey  was  stolen,  but  the  police  failed 
to  discover  the  thief,  and  this  failure 
gave  rise  to  the  laugh  against  them. 

Who  stole  the  donkey (  Answer:  "Tlie 
man  with  the  white  hat."  It  was  said, 
in  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
that  white  hats  were  made  of  the  skins 
of  donkeys,  and  that  many  donkeys 
were  stolen  and  sold  to  hatters. 

Donkey  Engine  (^i).  A  small  engine 
of  from  two  to  four  horse-jiower. 

Do'ny.  Florimel's  dwarf.  (Sjjcnser : 
Faerie  Qucene,  book  iii.  canto  o.) 

Don'zel  (Italian).    A  squii-e  or  young 

man  of  good  bii'th. 

"  He  is  fs.jiiiie  to  a  kniglit-enant,  duu/tel  to  the 
damsels."— i/Ht/cj- ;  Cliunutcrs. 

Doolin  of  Mayence.  The  hero  of  a 
French  romance  of  chivalry,  and  the 
father  of  Ogier  the  Dane. 

Doolin's  Sword.  Merveilleuse  (won- 
derful).    {See  Sword.) 

Doom.  The  crack  of  doom.  The  signal 
for  the  final  judgment. 

Doom  Book  {doin-boc)  is  the  book_  of 
dooms  or  judgments  compiled  by  King 
Alfred.     (.Vrc  Domesday  Book.) 

Doom-rings,  or  Circles  of  Judyment. 
An  Icelandic  tenn  for  cu'cles  of  stones 
resembling  Stouehenge  and  Avebury. 

Dooms'day  Sedgwick.  William  Sedg- 
wick, a  fanatical  prophet  and  preacher 
during  the  Commonwealth.  He  pre- 
tended to  have  had  it  revealed  to  him  iu 
a  vision  that  doomsday  was  at  hand; 
and,  going  to  the  house  of  Sir  Francis 
Russell,  in  Cambridgeshire,  he  called 
upon  a  party  of  gentlemen  playing  at 
bowls  to  leave  off  and  prepare  for  the 
approaching  dissolution. 


Doomstead 


Dorigen 


Doomstead.  The  horse  of  the  Scan- 
diuaviau  Norues  or  Fates.    {See  Hoese.) 

Door.     (Greek,  thura;  Anglo-Saxon, 

dor  a.) 

The  door  must  he  either  shut  or  open. 
It  must  1)0  one  way  or  the  other.  This 
is  from  a  French  comedy  called  Lc  Gron- 
deur,  where  the  master  scolds  his  servant 
for  lea\nng  the  door  open.  The  servant 
says  that  he  was  scolded  the  last  time 
for  shutting  it,  and  adds:  "Do  you 
wish  it  shut  ? " — "No." — "  Do  you  wish 
it  open?" — "No." — "Why,"  says  the 
man,  "it  must  be  either  shut  or  open." 

J[e  laid  the  charge  at  luy  door.  He 
accused  me  of  doing  it. 

Next  door  to  it.  As,  if  not  so,  it  was 
next  door  to  it,  i.e.  very  Kke  it,  next- 
door  neighbour  to  it. 

Sin  lieth  at  the  door  (Gen.  iv.  7).  The 
blame  of  sin  lies  at  the  door  of  the 
wrong-doer,  and  he  must  take  the  con- 
sequences. 

Door  Nail.  (Sec  Dead.)  Scrooge's 
jiartner  is  "dead  as  a  door-nail."  {Dick- 
c)/s  :  Christmas  Carol,  chap,  i.) 

Door-opener  {The).  So  Crates,  the 
Theban,  was  called,  because  every  morn- 
ing he  used  to  go  round  Athens  and 
rebuke  the  ijeople  for  their  late  rising. 

Door-tree  {A).  The  wooden  bar  of 
a  door  to  secure  it  at  night  from  in- 
truders.   Also  a  door-post. 

Doors  \Jtoiise'].  As,  come  indoors, 
go  indoors.  So  Vii'gil :  "  Tion  foribns 
cUvce  .  .  [^Dido']  .  .  resedit.^'  (Then  Dido 
seated  herself  in  the  house  or  temple 
of  the  goddess.)     {JEncid,  i.  505.) 

Out  of  doors.  Outside  the  house  ;  in 
the  open  air. 

Doorm.  An  earl  called  "the  Bull," 
■who  tried  to  make  Enid  his  handmaid ; 
but,  when  she  would  neither  eat,  drink, 
nor  array  herself  in  bravery  at  his  bid- 
ding, "he  smote  her  on  the  cheek;" 
whereupon  her  lord  and  husband.  Count 
Geraint,  starting  up,  slew  the  "russet- 
bearded  earl "  in  his  own  hall.  [Toniij- 
son  :  Id>jUs  of  the  K'lmj  ;  Enid.) 

Do'ra.  The  first  wife  of  David  Cop- 
pertield ;  she  was  a  child-wife,  but  no 
help-meet.  She  could  do  nothing  of 
practical  use,  but  looked  on  her  husband 
with  idolatrous  love.  Tennyson  has  a 
poem  entitled  Bora. 

Dorado  {El).    {Sec  El  Dorado.) 

Do'rax.  A  Portuguese  renegade,  in 
Dryden's  Don  Sebastian — by  far  the  best 
of  all  his  characters. 


Dor'cas  Society.  A  society  for  sup- 
plying the  poor  with  clothing.  So  called 
from  Dorcas,  mentioned  iu  Acts  ix.  39. 

Dorchester.    As  big  as  a  Dorchester 
butt.     Very  coriJulent,  like  the  butts  of 
Dorchester.     Of  Toby  Fil^jot  it  is  said : 
"  His  lireath-doovs  of  life  on  a  sudden  were  sljut, 

And  Le  died  full  as  Ijig  as  a  Dorchester  buti." 
O'Keefe :  Poor  Soldier. 

Do'ric.  The  oldest,  strongest,  and 
simplest  of  the  Grecian  orders  of  archi- 
tecture. So  called  from  Doris,  iu  Greece, 
or  the  Dorians  who  emj)loyed  it.  The 
Greek  Doric  is  simpler  than  the  Roman 
imitation.  The  former  stands  on  the 
pavement  without  fillet  or  other  orna- 
ment, and  the  tiutes  are  not  scalloped. 
The  Eoman  column  is  placed  on  a  pliuth, 
has  fillets,  and  the  fiutings,  both  toj)  and 
bottom,  are  scalloi^ed. 

Doric  Dialect.  The  dialect  spoken 
by  the  natives  of  Doris,  iu  Greece,  It  was 
broad  and  hard.  Hence,  any  broad  dia- 
lect. 

Doric  Land.  Greece,  Doris  being  a 
part  of  Greece. 

"  Tlirougli  all  tlie  bounds 
Of  Doric  laud." 

Milton :  Paradise  Lost,  book  i.  519. 

Do'ric  Reed.  Pastoral  poetry.  Eveiy- 
thing  Doric  was  very  jilain,  but  cheerful, 
chaste,  and  solid.  The  Dorians  were  the 
pastoral  people  of  Greece,  and  their  dia- 
lect was  that  of  the  country  rustics. 
Our  own  Bloomfield  and  Eobert  Bums 
are  examples  of  British  Doric. 

'•  The  Doric  reed  once  more 


Dor'icourt.  A  sort  of  Tremaine  of 
the  eighteenth  century,  who,  having 
over-refined  his  taste  by  the  "  grand 
tour,"  considers  English  beauties  in- 
sipid. He  falls  in  love  with  Letitia 
Hardy  at  a  masquerade,  after  feeling 
aversion  to  her  iu  her  assumed  character 
of  a  hoyden.  {Mrs.  Cotvley  :  The  BclWs 
Stratagem.) 

Dor'igen.  A  lady  of  high  family, 
who  maiTied  Ai'vir'agus  out  of  pity  for 
his  love  and  meekness.  She  was  greatly 
beloved  by  Aurelius,  to  whom  she  had 
been  long  known.  Aurelius,  during  the 
absence  of  Arviragus,  tried  to  win  the 
heart  of  the  young  wife ;  but  Doiigen 
made  answer  that  she  would  never  Usten 
to  him  till  the  rocks  that  beset  the  coast 
of  Britain  are  removed  "and  there  n'is 
no  stone  yseen."  Am-elius,  by  the  aid 
of  a  young  magician  of  Orleans,  caused 
all  the  rocks  to  disappear,  and  claimed 
his  reward,     Dorigen  was  very  sad,  but 


Dorimant 


374 


Douay  Bible 


her  husband  insisted  that  she  should  keep 
her  word,  and  she  went  to  meet  Aure- 
lius.  When  AureHus  saw  how  sad  slie 
was,  and  heard  wliat  Ai-viragus  had 
counselled,  he  said  he  would  rather  die 
than  iujiu'e  so  true  a  wife  and  noble  a 
gentleniuu.  So  she  returned  to  her 
husband  happy  and  luitainted.  {iScc 
DiANOKA.)     {Chancer:  FrroikHncs  TaJc.) 

:  Dor'imant.  Drawn  from  the  Earl 
of  Rochester  ;  a  witty,  aristocratic  liber- 
tine, in  Etlierege's  Ilioi  of  Mode. 

Dorinda,  in  the  verses  of  the  Earl  of 
Dorset,  is  Catherine  Sedley,  Countess  of 
Dorchester,  mistress  of  James  II. 

Dormer  Window.  The  window  of 
an  attic  standing  out  from  the  slope  of 
the  roof.  (O.  French,  ffor;«for= a  sleep- 
ing room  formerly  fitted  with  windows 
of  this  kind.) 

"  That  died  were  tlie  rnof  s,  with  dormer -windn-ws." 
Longfellow :  Evangeline,  lurt  i.  stauza  1. 

Dornock.  Stout  figured  linen  for 
tablcclotlis ;  so  called  from  a  town  in 
Scotland,  where  it  was  originally  made. 

Dorothea  ('S'^.),  represented  with  a 
rose-branch  in  her  hand,  a  wreath  of 
roses  on  her  head,  and  roses  with  fruit 
by  her  side ;  sometimes  with  an  angel 
carrj-ing  a  basket  with  three  apjDles  and 
three  roses.  The  legend  is  that  Theo- 
philus,  the  judge's  secretary,  scoffingly 
■said  to  her,  as  she  was  going  to  execu- 
tion, "  Send  me  some  fruit  and  roses, 
Dorothea,  when  you  get  to  Paradise." 
Immediately  after  her  execution,  while 
Theophilus  was  at  dinner  with  a  party 
of  companions,  a  young  angel  brought 
to  him  a  basket  of  apples  and  roses, 
sayiag,  "  From  Dorothea,  in  Paradise," 
and  vanished.  Theophilus,  of  course, 
was  a  convert  from  that  moment. 

Dorset.  Once  the  seatof  aBritish  tribe, 
calling  themselves  Dwr-tru/s  (water- 
dwellers).  The  Romans  colonised  the 
settlement,  and  'LaXim&ediDwr- trigs  into 
Duro-triijh.  Lastly  came  the  Saxons, 
and  translated  the  original  words  into 
their  own  tongue,  dor-scetta  (water- 
dwellers). 

Dorse'tian  Downs.    The  Downs  of 

Dorsetshire. 

"  Spread  the  pure  Dorsetian  downs 
In  boundless  prospect." 

Thomson:  Autumn. 

Dosith'eans.  A  religious  sect  which 
sprang  up  in  the  first  century  ;  so  called 
because  they  believed  that  Dosith'eus 
had  a  divine  mission  superior  to  that  of 
prophets  aud  apostles, 


Do'son.  A  promise-maker  and  a 
promise -breaker.  Antig'onos,  grandson 
of  Demetrios  t/ic  besieger,  was  so  called. 

Doss.  A  hassock  stuffed  with  straw ; 
a  bed — jiroperly,  a  straw  bed ;  whence 
the  cant  word  for  a  lodging-house  is 
a  dossingken.  Dossel  is  an  old  word  for 
a  bundle  of  liay  or  straw,  and  dosser  for  a 
straw  basket.  These  words  were  common 
in  Elizabeth's  reign.  The  French  dossier 
means  a  "  bundle." 

Doss-house  {A).  A  cheap  lodging- 
house  where  the  poorer  classes  sleep  on 
bundles  of  straw.     {See  above.) 

In  tlic  A'eio  Itevlew  (Aug.,  ]8fl4')  there  is  an  article 
entitled  "In  a  Woman's  Dos.-s-liouse,"  -wliic^li 
tliruws  uiuoU  light  on  the  condition  of  the  poor 
in  London. 

Dosser.  One  who  sleeps  in  a  low  or 
cheap  liii'ed  dormitory.  The  verb  doss 
=  to  sleep. 

Do-the-Boys'  Hall.  A  school  where 
boys  were  taken  in  and  done  for  by  a 
Mr.  Sipieers,  a  puffing,  ignorant,  over- 
bearing brute,  who  starved  them  and 
taught  them  nothing.  {iJickens:  Nicholas 
Niekiebg.) 

V  It  is  said  that  Mr.  Squeers  is  a 
caricature  of  Mr.  Shaw,  a  Yorkshire 
schooln>aster  ;  but  Mr.  Shaw  was  a  kind- 
hearted  man,  and  his  bo}'s  were  well  fed, 
happy,  and  not  ill-taught.  Like  Squeers 
he  had  only  one  eye,  and  Uke  Squeers 
he  had  a  daughter.  It  is  said  that  his 
school  was  ruined  by  Dickens's  carica- 
ture. 

Dot  and  go  One  {A).  An  infant 
just  beginning  to  toddle ;  one  who 
limps  in  walking  ;  a  person  who  has  one 
leg  longer  than  tlie  other. 

Dot'terel  or  Dottrel.  A  doting  old 
fool ;  an  old  man  easily  cajoled.  The 
bird  thus  called,  a  species  of  plover,  is 
said  to  be  so  fond  of  imitation  that  any 
one  who  excites  its  curiosity  by  strange 
antics  may  catch  it. 

'To  dor  the  dotterel.  Dor  is  an  archaic 
word  meaning  to  trick  or  cheat.  Whence 
the  phrase  to  "  dor  the  dotterel  "  means 
to  cheat  the  simpleton, 

Dou'ay  Bible.  The  English  trans- 
lation of  the  Bible  sanctioned  by  the 
Roman  Cathohc  Church.  The  Old  Tes- 
tament was  pubhshed  by  the  English 
college  at  Douay,  in  France,  in  1  (309  ; 
but  the  New  Testament  was  published 
at  Rheims  in  1582.  The  English  college 
at  Douay  was  founded  by  William 
Allen  (afterwards  cardinal)  in  1568.  The 
Douay  Bible  translates  such  words  as 
repoitancc  by  the  yfoxA.  jjcnaiice,  etc.,  and 


Double 


Douglas 


the  whole    contains    notes    by    Roman 
Catholic  divines. 

Double  {To).  To  pass  or  sail  round, 
as  "to  double  the  cape."  The  cape  (or 
point)  is  twice  between  the  ship  and  the 
land.  (French,  doubler ;  Latin,  dno- 
plico.) 

"  WLiat  capes  lie  douWed,  and  what  continent, 
The  gulfs  aud  straits  tliat  strangely  lie  bail  past." 
Dryden  :  Ideas,  stanza  1. 

Double  Dealing.  Professing  one 
thing  and  doing  another  iuconsistent 
with  that  promise. 

"  [Slie]  was  'iiiite  alioveall  double-dealing.  Sbe 
had  nu  mental  reservation." — Maria  Edgewuith. 

Double  Dutcb.  Gibberish,  jargon, 
or  a  foreign  tongue  not  understood  by 
the  hearer.  Dutch  is  a  sjTionym  for 
foreign  ;  and  double  is  simply  excessive, 
in  a  twofold  degree. 

Double-edged  Sword.  Literally, 
a  sword  wliich  cuts  either  way ;  meta- 
phoiically,  an  argument  which  makes 
both  for  and  against  the  person  employ- 
ing it,  or  which  has  a  double  meanmg. 
"  '  Your  Delphic  sword,'  the  panther  then  rephed, 

'  Is  double-edged,  and  cuts  on  either  side.'  " 
Dnjden:  Hind  and  I'anther,  part  iii.  lul— 2. 

Double  Entendre  (English-French 
for  I'll  mot  a  double  oitoitc,  or  a  deux 
ententes).  Words  which  secretly  express 
a  rude  or  coarse  covert  meaning,  gener- 
ally of  a  licentious  character.  ' '  En- 
tendre "  is  the  infinitive  mood  of  a  verb, 
and  is  never  used  as  a  noun. 

Double  First  {A).  In  the  first  class 
both  of  the  classical  and  mathematical 
final  examination  ia  the  Oxford  Univer- 
sity ;  or  of  the  classical  aud  mathematical 
triposes  of  the  L^uiversity  of  Cambridge. 

Double-headed  Eagle  {The).  The 
Gennan  eagle  has  its  head  turned  to  our 
left  hand,  and  the  Roman  eagle  to  our 
right  hand.  When  Charlemagne  was 
made  "Kaiser  of  the  Holy  Roman  Em- 
pire," he  joined  the  two  heads  together, 
one  looking  east  and  the  other  west. 

Double-tongued.     One  who  makes 
contrary  declarations  on  the  same  sub- 
ject at  different  times ;  deceitful. 
"Be  grave,  not  douljle-tongued."— 1  Tim.  iii.  8. 

Double  up  {To).  To  fold  together. 
"To  double  up  the  fist"  is  to  fold  the 
fingers  together  so  as  to  make  the  hand 
into  a  fist. 

I  doubled  him  up.  I  struck  him  in  the 
wind,  so  as  to  make  him  double  up  with 
pain,  or  .so  as  to  leave  him  "all  of  a 
heap." 

Poubl0  X.     {Sec  XX.) 


Double  or  Quits.  The  winner  stakes 
his  stake,  and  the  loser  promises  to  pay 
twice  the  stake  if  he  loses  again  ;  but  if 
he  wins  the  second  throw  he  pays  no- 
thing, and  neither  player  loses  or  wius 
anything.  This  is  often  done  when  the 
stake  is  3d.,  and  the  parties  have  no 
copper  :  if  the  loser  loses  agaru,  he  pays 
6d. ;  if  not,  the  winner  does  not  claim 
his  3d. 

Doubles  or  Doubls-walkers.  Those 
aerial  duplicates  of  men  or  women  who 
represent  them  so  minutely  as  to  deceive 
those  who  know  them.  \Ve  apply  the 
word  to  such  persons  as  the  Dromio 
brothers,  the  Corsicau  brothers,  aud  the 
brothers  Antiph'olus.  The  ' '  head  centre 
Stephens  "  is  said  to  have  had  a  double, 
who  was  perpetually  leading  astray  those 
set  to  hunt  him  down. 

Doubting  Castle.  The  castle  of  the 
giant  Despair,  in  which  Christian  and 
Hopeful  were  incarcerated,  but  from 
which  they  escaped  by  means  of  the  ke}^ 
called  "  Promise."  {Buntjan  :  Filyrini's 
Frogress.) 

Douceur'.  (French.)  A  gratuity  for 
service  rendered  or  promised. 

Douglas.  The  tutelary  saint  of  the 
house  of  Douglas  is  St.  Bridget.  Ac- 
cording to  tradition,  a  Scottish  king  in 
770,  whose  ranks  had  been  broken  by 
the  fierce  onset  of  the  Lord  of  the  Isles, 
saw  the  tide  of  battle  turned  in  his 
favour  by  an  unknown  chief.  After  the 
battle  the  king  asked  who  was  the  . 
"Du-glass"  chief  tain,  his  deliverer,  and 
received  for  answer  HhoUa  Dd-f/Ias.t 
(Behold  the  dark-grey  man  you  inquired 
for).  The  king  then  rewarded  him  with 
the  Clydesdale  valley  for  his  services. 

"'Let  him  not  cross  or  th%vart  nie,'  s.-iid  the 
page;  'for  I  will  not  yield  bim  an  inch  of  way, 
had  be  in  his  body  the  soul  of  every  Douu-las  that 
has  lived  since  the  time  of  the  Dark  Gray  Man.'"— 
Scott :  The  Abbot,  chap,  xxviii. 

Blaek  Douglaa,  introduced  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott  in  Cartle  iJcmgeroiis,  is 
James,  eighth  Lord  Douglas,  who  twice 
took  Douglas  Castle  from  the  English  by 
stratagem.  The  first  time  he  partly 
bui-nt  it,  and  the  second  time  he  utterly 
razed  it  to  the  ground.  The  castle,  says 
Godscroft,  was  nicknamed  the  hazardous 
or  dangerous,  because  every  one  who 
attempted  to  keep  it  from  the  "  gud 
schyr  James  "  was  in  constant  jeopardy 
by  his  wiles. 

"  The    Good    Sir    James,    the    dreadful    blacke 
Douglas', 
That  in  his  dayes  so  wise  and  worthie  was, 
Wha  here  and  on  the  infidels  of  Spain, 
Such  honour,  praise,  and  triumphs  did  obtain." 
Cordon, 


Douglas 


376 


Dovetail 


V  The  person  generally  called  "  Black 
Douglas"  is  William  Douglas,  lord  of 
Nithsdale,  who  died  iu  1390.  It  was  of 
this  Douglas  that  Sir  W.  Scott  said — 

"  The  name  of  this  indefatigable  chief  has  be- 
come so  formidable,  that  women  used,  in  tlie 
nonliern  counties,  to  still  their  frowavd  children 
by  threatening  them  with  the  Black  Douglas."— 
Ilisturi)  of  Scotland,  chap.  xi. 

Douglas  Tragedy  (The).  A  hallad 
in  Scott's  Border  Minstrelsy.  Lord 
William  steals  away  Lady  Margaret 
Douglas,  but  is  pursued  by  lier  father 
and  two  brothers.  Being  overtaken,  a 
fight  ensues,  in  which  the  father  and  his 
two  sons  are  sore  wounded.  Lord  Wil- 
liam, wounded,  creeps  to  his  mother's 
house,  and  there  dies ;  the  lady  before 
siini-ise  next  morning  dies  also. 

Douse    tlie    Glim.      Put    out   the 

light ;  also  knock  out  a  mati's  ej^e.  To 
douse  is  to  lower  in  haste,  as  "  Douse 
the  top-sail "  Glim,  gleam,  glimmer,  are 
variants  of  the  same  word. 

"  'And  so  you  would  turn  honest,  f.-iiilainCofre, 
a.crrazinf.',  would  ye,'  said  an  old  weal  her-lie.-ilfn 
pirate  who  had  Imt  one  eye;  'what  tlio\i^'h  he 
....  uade  my  eye  dowse  the  ijrlini  ....  he  is  an 
honest  u:an  '  .  .  .  ."—Tlic  Piriifc,  Ldiap.  x.wiii. 

Dousterswivel.  A  Gei-man  swind- 
ler, wlio  obtains  money  imder  the  promise 
of  finding  buried  wealth  by  a  divining- 
rod.     {'Scott :  Aiitiqnary.) 

Dout.  A  contraction  of  do-out,  as 
don  is  of  do-on,  doff  of  do-off,  and  duji  of 
do- up. 

In  Devonshire  and  other  southern 
counties  they  still  say  I>out  the  candle 
and  Bout  the  fire.  In  some  counties  ex- 
tinguishers are  called  doutcrs. 

"The  dram  of-b.ase 
Doth  all  the  noble  substance  dout." 

KUakcspciire :  Hamlet,  i.  4. 

Dove — i.e.  the  diver-bird  ;  perhaps  so 
called  from  its  habit  of  ducking  the 
head.  So  also  eoluuiha  (the  Latin  for 
dove)  is  the  Greek  Icolundiis  (a  diver). 

Dove  (The).  Tlie  dove,  in  Christian 
art,  symbolises  the  Holy  Ghost.  In 
church  windows  the  seven  rays  proceed- 
ing from  tlie  dove  signify  the  seven  gifts 
of  tlie  Holy  Ghost.  It  also  symbolises 
the  human  soul,  and  as  such  is  repre- 
sented coming  out  of  the  mouth  of  saints  i 
at  death. 

A  dove  ynth  six  wings  is  emblematic 
of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

The  seven  pifts  of  the  Holy  f4host  are  :  0) 
counsel,  (2)  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  (.3)  fortitude,  (4) 
piet}-,  (5)  understanding,  (6)  wisdom,  and  (~) 
knowledge. 

Dores  or  pigeons  not  eaten  as  food  in 
Russia.     {See  Christian  Traditions.) 

Doves  or  pif/eons.  The  clergy  of  the 
Chmch    of    England    are    allegorised 


under  this  term  in  Dryden's  Sind  and 
Panther,  part  iii.  947,  998-1002. 

"  A  sort   of   doves  were  housed   too   near   the 
hall  .  .  .  [i.e.  the  private  chaiiel  at  Whitehall] 
Our  jiampered  pigecms,  with  malignant  eyes. 
Beheld   these   inmates    [the  Roman    t'itholic 

clergy]. 
Tho'  hard  their  fare,  at  evening  and  at  morn, 
A  cruse  of  water  and  an  ear  of  corn, 
Yet  still  they  grudged  that  modicum." 

Soiled  dcrcs.  Women  of  ihc  demi- 
monde. 

Doves'  Dung.  In  2  Kings  vi.  25, 
during  the  siege  of  Samaria,  "there  was 
a  great  famine  ....  and  ....  an 
ass's  head  was  sold  for  fourscore  pieces 
of  silver,  and  the  fourth  part  of  a  cab  of 
dove's  dung  \Juiriyonim]  for  five  pieces 
of  silver. ' '  This  ' '  hariyonim  ' '  was  a 
plant  called  chickpea,  a  common  article 
of  food  still  sold  to  jiilgrims  on  their 
way  to  Mecca. 

"  In  D.amascus  there  arc  many  tradcRmcn  wliose 
sole  occupation  is  pn'ii.-irinir  [liariyonimj  for  sale. 
They  have  always  been  I'slccnied  as  ii-o\ision 
meet  for  a  lengthy  journey,  and  arc  a  in-ccssarv 
part  of  the  outllt  of  all  who  travel  in  t  he  remote 
jiarts  of  Syria  and  Asia  Minor."— JSifc/e  Flowers, 
p.  71. 

Dover  (A).  A  n'chauffo  or  cooked 
food  done  over  agaiti.  In  the  profes- 
sional slang  of  English  cooks  a  resurrec- 
tion dish  is  still  called  a  dorcr  (do  over 
again). 

Dover.  JThen  Dover  and  Calais  meet 
— i.e.  never. 

A  jack  of  Dover.  A  "jack"  is  a 
small  drinking  vessel  made  of  waxed 
leather,  and  a  "Jack  of  Dover"  is  a 
bottle  of  wine  made  up  of  fragments  of 
opened  bottles.  It  is  customary  to  pour 
the  refuse  into  a  bottle,  cork  it  ui^,  and 
sell  it  as  a  fresh  bottle.  This  is  called 
dovering,  a  coiTuption  of  do-over,  be- 
cause the  cork  is  done  over  with  wax  or 
resin . 

"  Many  a  jack  of  Dover  hast  thou  sold." 

Cliaiiccr:  Coke's  Prulogve. 

Dovers  (Stock  Exchange  term).  The 
South-Eastem  railway  shares.  The 
line  runs  to  Dover.  {See  Claras  ; 
Stock  Exchange  Slang.  ) 

Dovercot  or  Dorercourt.  A  con- 
fused gabble ;  a  Babel.  According  to 
legend,  Dover  Court  church,  in  Essex, 
once  possessed  a  cross  that  sjioke  ;  and 
Foxe  says  the  crowd  to  the  church  was 
so  great  "that  no  man  could  shut  the 
door."  The  confusion  of  this  daily 
throng  gave  rise  to  the  term. 

"  And  now  the  rood  of  Dovercot  did  speak, 
t'onhrniing  his  opinions  to  be  true" 

Collier  pf  Croi/do)!. 

Dovetail.  Metaphorically,  to  fit  on 
or  fit  in  nicely ;  to  correspond.     It  is  a 


Dowgate  "Ward 


377 


Doyleys 


word  in  carpentry,  and  means  the  fitting 
one  board  into  another  by  a  tenon  in 
the  shape  of  a  dove's  tail,  or  wedge  re- 
versed. 

Dowgate  Ward  (London). _  Some 
derive  it  from  Dour  (water),  it  being 
next  to  the  Thames,  at  the  foot  of  the 
hill;  others  say  it  is  "Down-gate," 
the  gate  of  the  down,  dune,  or  hill,  as 
Brighton  Downs  (hills),  South-downs, 
etc. 

Dowlas  (Mr.).  A  generic  name  for 
a  linendraper,  who  sells  dowlas,  a  coarse 
linen  cloth,  so  called  from  Doulens  in 
Picardy,  where  it  is  manufactured. 

Dowling  {Captain).  A  character  in 
Crabbe's  Borough;  a  great  drunkard, 
who  died  in  his  cups. 

"  '  Come,  fill  my  glass.'  He  took  it  and  lie  went  " 
(i.e.  died).       .  Letter  xvi. 

Down.  Ifc  is  quite  down  in  the  mouth. 
Out  of  .'spirits ;  disheartened.  When 
pei'sons  are  very  sad  and  low-siiirited, 
the  corners  of  the  mouth  are  drawn 
down.  "Down  in  the  jib"  is  a  nau- 
tical phrase  of  the  same  meaning. 

Down  in  the  Dumps.  Low-spirited. 

Down  on  Him  (To  In).  1  teas  doun 
on  Iiiin  i)i  a  minute.  I  pounced  on  him 
directly ;  I  detected  his  trick  imme- 
diately. Also  to  treat  harshlj'.  The 
allusion  is  to  birds  of  prey. 

Down  on  his  Luck.    In  ill-luck. 

"  '  I  guess,  stranger,  you'll  find  me  an  ox-presi- 
dont  down  on  his  luck.'  "—.1.  Eymont  Hake:  J'uris 
Uriginala  (Professors  of  Languages). 

Down  to  the  Ground.  That  suits 
me  down  to  the  ground.     Entirely. 

Down  -  hearted.  Without  sjiii-it ; 
the  heart  prostrated. 

Down  Town.  /  am  going  down  town, 
i.e.  to  the  business  part  of  the  to\vu. 

Down  the  countrg  properly  means 
down  the  slope  of  the  land,  or  as  the 
rivers  run. 

V  We  say  "  I  am  going  up  to  town  " 
when  we  mean  out  of  the  country  into 
the  chief  city. 

Down-trod.  Despised,  as  one  trod- 
den under  foot. 

"I  will  lift 
Tbe  down-trod  Mortimer  as  high  i'  the  a;r 
As  this  ungrateful  king." 

Shakespeare :  1  Henry  IV.,  i.  3. 

Downfall  (A).  A  heavy  shower  of 
rain ;  a  loss  of  social  position. 

Downing  Professor.  The  Pro- 
fessor of  the  Laws  of  England  in  the 
University  of  Cambridge.      This  chair 


was  founded  in  1800  by  Sir  George 
Downing,  Bart. 

Downing  Street  (Loudon).  Named 
after  Sir  George  Downing,  who  died 
lG8i.  He  was  elected  M.P.  for  Morpeth 
in  16G1. 

Downpour  (,i).  A  very  heavy 
shower  of  rain.  "A  regular  down- 
pour." 

Downright.  Thoroughly,  as  ' '  down- 
right honest,"  "  downright  mad  "  ;  out- 
spoken ;  utter,  as  a  "  downright  shame." 
The  word  means  from  top  to  bottom, 
throughout. 

Downright  Dunstahle.  Very  blunt, 
lilain  speaking.  The  present  town  of 
Dunstable  is  at  the  foot  of  the  Chiltern 
Hills,  in  Bedfordshire.  There  was  some- 
where about  the  same  site  a  Roman 
station  called  Magiouium  or  Magiutum, 
utterly  destroyed  by  tlie  Danes,  anil 
afterwards  overgrown  by  trees.  Heury  I. 
founded  the  present  town,  and  built 
there  a  palace  and  priory. 

"If  this  is  not  iilain  siieaking,  there  is  no  such 
I'lace  as  downright  Dunstable."— ,Vir  W.  Scott: 
liidfjiiwitht,  chap.  xvii. 

Downstairs.  Stairs  leading  from  a 
higher  to  a  lower  floor ;  on  the  lowest 
floor,  as  "I  am  downstairs." 

Downy  (The).  Bed.  Gone  to  the 
downg,  gone  to  bed.  Bed  being  stuli'ed 
with  down. 

Downy  Cove  (A).  A  knowing  fel- 
low, up  to  every  dodge.  On  the  "  tueus 
anon  lucendo"  principle,  contraries  are 
often  substituted  in  shmg  and  facetious 
phrases.     (>bV'f  Lucus  A  non  Lucendo.) 

Dow'sabell.  Daughter  of  Cassamen, 
a  knight  of  Arden,  who  fell  in  love  with 
a  shepherd.  The  two  make  love  with 
Arcadian  simplicity,  and  vow  eternal 
fldelity. 

"  With  that  she  bent  her  snow-white  knee, 
Down  by  the  shepherd  kneeled  she, 

And  him  she  sweetly  kist. 
W^ith  that  the  shepherd  whooped  for  joy. 
Quoth  he,  'There's  never  shepherd  boy 
That  ever  was  so  blist.'  " 

Uraiiton  :  J)uicsal>cV  (a  ballad). 

Dowse  on  the  Chops  (A).  A  ding 
or  blow  on  the  face.  "A  dowse  on  the 
blubber-chops  of  my  friend  the  baronet " 
means  a  setting  down,  a  snubbing. 

Doxy.  A  baby  ;  a  pilaything  ;  a 
jiaramour.  In  the  West  of  England 
babies  are  called  do.vics. 

Doyleys.    Now  means  a  small  cloth 

used  to  cover  dessert  plates  ;  but  origin- 
ally it  had  a  much  wider  meaning.  Thus 
Dryden  speaks  of  "  doyley  petticoats;  " 


Dozen 


378 


Dragon 


and  Steele,  in  No.  102  of  the  Tatlcr, 
speaks  of  his  "  doiley  suit."  The 
Doj'leys  were  linen-drapers,  No.  346, 
east  coi-uer  of  Upper  Wellington  Street, 
Strand,  from  tlie  time  of  Queen  Anne 
to  the  year  1850. 

Dozen.     {Sec  Baker's  Dozen.) 

D.  P.  or  Dom.  Proc.  The  House  of 
Lords.     (Latin,  Jjoiuus  Procerum.) 

Drac.  A  sort  of  fairy  in  human 
form,  whose  abode  is  the  caverns  of 
rivers.  Sometimes  these  dracs  will  float 
like  golden  cups  along  a  stream  to  entice 
women  and  children  bathing,  and  when 
they  attempt  to  catch  tlie  prize  drag 
them  under  water.  {South  of  Francv 
mijthohgii.) 

'Fare  le  drac,  same  as  "  Faire  le 
diable."  Irish,  "Play  the  Puck;" 
Enghsh,  "  Play  the  deuce." 

"  BeloTiien  qu'  yeu  faru  le  Drac 
Se  jamay  trelii  dins  iiu  sac 
Cine  5  sies  milante  iiistolus 
Espessos  como  <le  vciIdIos." 

Goudelin:  Castle  en  I'Ayre. 

Dra'chenfels  (Dragon-rocks).  So 
called  from  the  legendary  dragon  killed 
there  by  Siegfried,  the  hero  of  the  Nibe- 
luugen-Lied. 

"  Tlic  castled  rrncr  of  Draclienfels 

Kniwii.-:  (p'ei-  tlic  wide  and  winding  Rhine, 
WlKiSe  hreast  uf  waters  hruadly  swells 
Between  the  banks  wliieh  hear  the  vine." 
liynm  :  Cliilde  llaroUl,  iii.  55. 

Draco'nian  Code.  One  very  severe. 
Draco  was  an  Athenian  law-maker.  As 
every  violation  of  a  law  was  made  in 
this  code  a  capital  offence,  Dema'des  the 
orator  said  "  that  Draco's  code  was 
written  iu  human  blood." 

Draft.  The  Druids  borrowed  money 
on  promises  of  repayment  after  detith 
{Fntriciiif).  Purchas  tells  us  of  some 
priests  of  Pekin,  who  barter  with  the 
people  in  bills  of  exchange,  to  be  paid 
in  heaven  a  hundredfold. 

Draft  on  Aldgate  {A),  or  A  draft  o>i 
Aldf/atc  ■pump.  A  worthless  note  of 
hand ;  a  fraudulent  draft  or  money 
order.  The  pun  is  between  draft  or 
draught  of  drink,  and  draft  a  money 
order  on  a  bank. 

Drag  in,  Neck  and  Crop,  or  To  drarj 
ii/,  head  and  shoulders.  To  introduce  a 
subject  or  remark  abruptlj\  {Hee  A 
Peopos  de  Bottes.) 

Draggle-tail.  A  slut ;  a  woman 
who  allows  her  i^etticoats  to  trail  in  the 
dirt.  The  word  should  be  "  daggle - 
tail"  ('?.«'.),  from  the  Scotch  daei  (dew  on 
the  grass),  daggle  (wet  with  the  grass- 
dew),  like  the  Latin  collu'tulo  irro'ro. 


Drag'oman  (plural,  Bragomans).  A 
cicerone ;  a  guide  or  inierju'eter  to 
foreigners.  (Arabic  targuuiaii,  an  inter- 
preter ;  whence  targuni!) 

"  My  dratroman  had  mo  cnmpletelv  in  his  power, 
and  I  resolved  to  hecoine  independent  of  all  in- 
terpreters."—/Jd/cer  .•  Albert  Jfyauza,  chap.  i.  p.  .3. 

Dragon.  The  Greek  word  drakon 
comes  from  a  verb  meaning  "  to  see,"  to 
"look  at,"  and  more  remotely  "to 
watch"  and  "to  flash." 

The  animal  called  a  dragon  is  a  winged 
crocodile  with  a  serpent's  tail ;  whence 
the  words  serpent  and  dragon  are  some- 
times interchangeable. 

From  the  meaning  a  watcher  we  get 
the  notion  of  one  that  watches ;  and 
from  the  meaning  "  to  flash,"  we  connect 
the  word  with  meteors. 

I  "  Swift,  swift,  ye  dragons  of  the  night  :— that 
dawning 
May  Jiare  the  raven's  eye." 

Shakespeare:  Cymbeline,  ii.  2. 

BragoiK  This  word  is  used  by  eccle- 
siastics of  the  Middle  Ages  as  the  symbol 
of  sin  in  general  and  paganism  in  par- 
ticular. The  metaphor  is  derived  from 
Rev.  xii.  9,  where  Satan  is  termed  "  the 
great  dragon."  In  Ps.  xci.  13  it  is  said 
that  the  saints  "  shall  trample  the  dragon 
under  their  feet."  In  tlie  storj-  of  the 
Fall,  Satan  appeared  to  Eve  in  the 
semblance  of  a  serpent,  and  the  promise 
was  made  that  in  the  fulness  of  time 
the  seed  of  the  woman  should  bruise  the 
serpent's  head. 

Another  som'ce  of  dragon  legends  is 
the  Celtic  use  of  the  word  for  "  a  chief." 
Hence  pen-dragcm  (summus  rex),  a  sort 
of  dictator,  created  in  times  of  danger. 
Those  knights  who  slew  a  chief  in  battle 
slew  a  dragon,  and  the  military  title 
soon  got  confounded  with  the  fabulous 
monster.  Dragon,  meaning  "quick- 
sighted,"  is  a  very  suitable  word  for  a 
general. 

Some  great  inundations  have  also  been 
tenned  serpents  or  dragons.  Hence 
Apollo  (the  sun)  is  said  to  have  des- 
troj'cd  the  seri^ent  Python  {i.e.  dried  up 
the  overflow).  Similarly,  St.  Roma'nus 
delivered  the  city  of  Rouen  from  a 
dragon,  named  GargouUle  (waterspout), 
which  lived  in  the  river  Seine. 

From  the-idea  of  ^catching,  we  have  a 
dragon  placed  in  the  garden  of  the 
Hesperides ;  and  a  duenna  is  poetically 
called  a  dragon : 

".In  England  the  garden  of  heanty  is  kept 
By  a  dragon  of  prudery  placed  within  call ; 
Bnt  so  oft  the  unamiable  dragon  hath  slept, 
That   the  garden's   but  carelessly  watched 
after  all." 
T.  Mnore :  Irish  Melodies,  No.  2  ("  yVe  may  roaifl 
thnmgli  this  world,"  etc.), 


Dragon 


379 


Dragon's  Teetli 


**  A  spiteful,  violent,  tyrannical 
woman  is  called  a  dragouess. 

17ic  blind  dragon^  the  third  party  who 
plays  propriety  in  flirtations. 

"Tljis  state  of  affairs  was  liailed  with  undis- 
giiisrd  tbaukfulness  hy  llie  roctur,  whose  feeling 
for  harmony  had  been  rndely  jarred  by  the 
necessity  of  his  acting  the  Idind  dias-'im."— J.  0. 
Ilobbcs ;  Sume  Emotions  and  a  Moral,  chap.  iv. 

Dragon  in  Christian  art  symbolises 
Satan  or  sin.  In  the  pictures  of  St. 
Michael  and  St.  Margaret  it  tjiiifies 
their  conquest  over  sin.  Siinilarlj', 
when  represented  at  the  feet  of  Christ 
and  the  Virgin  Mary.  The  conquest  of 
St.  George  and  St.  Silvester  over  a 
dragon  means  their  triumph  over  jiagan- 
ism.  In  the  pictures  of  St.  Martha  it 
means  the  inundation  of  the  Rhone, 
spreading  j^estilence  and  death  ;  simi- 
larly, St.  Romanus  delivered  Eouen 
from  the  inundation  of  the  Seine,  and 
Apollo's  conquest  of  the  python  means 
the  same  thing.  St.  John  the  Evangelist 
is  sometimes  represented  holding  a 
chalice,  from  which  a  winged  dragon  is 
issuing. 

Ladies  guarded  by  dragons.  The  walls 
of  feudal  castles  ran  winding  round  the 
huildiug,  and  the  ladies  were  kept  in  the 
securest  part.  As  adventurers  had  to 
scale  the  walls  to  gain  access  to  the 
ladies,  the  authors  of  romance  said  they 
overcame  the  serpent-like  defence,  or 
the  dragon  that  guarded  them.  Some- 
times there  were  two  walls,  and  then 
the  bold  invader  overcame  two  dragons 
in  his  attem2:)t  to  liberate  the  cajjtive 
damsel.     (.SVf  Enchanted  Castles.) 

A  flying  dragon.     A  meteor. 

The  Chinese  dragon.  In  China,  the 
drawing  of  a  five -clawed  dragon  is  not 
only  introduced  into  pictures,  but  is  also 
embroidered  on  state  dresses  and  royal 
robes.  This  representation  is  regarded 
as  an  amulet. 

The  Green  Dragon.  A  public-house 
sign  in  compliment  to  St.  George. 

The  lied  Dragon.  A  public-house 
sign  in  compliment  to  Henry  VII.,  who 
adopted  this  device  for  his  standard  at 
Bosworth  Field.  It  was  the  ensign  of 
Cadwallader,  the  last  of  the  British 
kings,  from  whom  the  Tudors  descended. 

Dragon  Slayers. 

(1)  St.  Philip  the  Apostle  is  said  to 
have  destroyed  a  huge  dragon  at  Hiera- 
polis,  in  Phrygia. 

(2)  St.  Martha  killed  the  terrible 
dragon  called  Tarasque  at  Aix  (la 
Chapelle). 

(3)  St.  Florent  killed  a  dragon  which 
haunted  the  Loire. 


(4)  St.  Cado,  St.  Maudet,  and  St. 
Paul  did  similar  feats  in  Brittany. 

(o)  St.  Keyne  of  Cornwall"  slew  a 
dragon. 

(6)  St.  Michael,  St.  George,  St.  Mar- 
garet, Pope  Sylvester,  St.  Samson  (Arch- 
bishop of  Dol),  Don'atus  (fourth  cen- 
tury), St.  Clement  of  Metz,  and  many 
others,  killed  dragons. 

(7)  St.  Eomain  of  Eouen  destroyed  the 
huge  dragon  called  La  Gargouille,  which 
ravaged  the  Seine. 

Dragon  of  Wantley  {i.e.  Warncliff, 
in  Yorkshire).  A  monster  slain  by 
More,  of  More  Hall,  who  procured  a  suit 
of  armour  studded  with  spikes ;  and,  pro- 
ceeding to  the  well  where  the  di-agon  had 
his  lair,  kicked  it  in  the  mouth,  where 
alone  it  was  vulnerable.  Dr.  Percy  says 
this  dragon  was  an  overgrown,  rascally 
attorney,  who  cheated  some  chiklren  of 
their  estate,  but  was  made  to  disgorge 
by  a  gentleman  named  More,  who  went 
against  him,  "armed  with  the  spikes 
of  the  law,"  after  which  the  dragon 
attorney  died  of  vexation.     {Reliqnes.) 

Dragon's  Hill  (Berkshire)  is  where 
the  legend  saj's  St.  George  killed  the 
dragon.  A  bare  place  is  shoAvn  on  the 
hill,  where  nothing  will  giow,  and  there 
the  blood  of  the  dragon  ran  out. 

In  Saxon  annals  we  are  told  that 
Cedric,  founder  of  the  West  Saxon 
kingdom,  slew  there  Naud,  the  pen- 
dragon,  with  5,000  men.  This  Naud  is 
called  Natan-leod,  a  corruption  of  Xaad- 
an  ludh  (Naud,  the  peojjle's  refuge). 

Dragon's  Teeth.  Subjects  of  civil 
strife ;  whatever  rouses  citizens  to  rise 
in  arms.  The  allusion  is  to  the  dragon 
that  guarded  the  well  of  A'res.  Cadmus 
slew  it,  and  sowed  some  of  the  teeth, 
from  which  sprang  uji  the  men  called 
Spartans,  who  all  killed  each  other 
except  five,  who  were  the  ancestors  of 
the  Thebans.  Those  teeth  which  Cadmus 
did  not  sow  came  to  the  jDOssession  of 
..Sle'tes,  King  of  Colchis  ;  and  one  of  the 
tasks  he  enjoined  Jason  was  to  sow  these 
teeth  and  slay  the  armed  warriors  that 
rose  therefrom. 

"Citizens  rising  from  the  soil,  richly  sown  with 
dr.agon's  teeth,  for  the  rights  of  their  several 
states."— TAe  Times. 

To  sow  dragons^  teeth.  To  foment 
contentions ;  to  stir  up  strife  or  war. 
The  reference  is  to  the  classical  story  of 
Jason  or  that  of  Cadmus,  both  of  whom 
sowed  the  teeth  of  a  dragon  which  he 
had  slain,  and  from  these  teeth  sprang 
up  armies  of  fighting  men,  who  attacked 
each  other  in  fierce  fight.     Of  coiu'se, 


Dragonades 


380 


Dra-wback 


the  figure  means  that  quarrels  often 
arise  out  of  a  contention  su])posed  to 
have  been  allayed  (or  slain).  The 
Philistines  sowed  dragons'  teeth  when 
they  took  Samson,  bound  him,  and  put 
out  his  eyes.  The  ancient  Britons  sowed 
dragons'  teeth  when  they  massacred  the 
Danes  on  St.  Bryce's  Day. 

Drag'onades  (3  syl.).  A  series  of 
religious  persecutions  by  Louis  XIV., 
which  drove  many  thousand  Protestants 
out  of  France.  Their  object  was  to 
root  out  "  heresy  ;  "  and  a  bishop,  with 
certain  ecclesiastics,  was  sent  to  see  if 
the  heretics  would  recant ;  if  not,  they 
were  left  to  the  tender  mercies  of  the 
dragoons  who  followed  these  ' '  ministers 
of  i^eace  and  goodwill  to  man." 

"  France  was  drifting  toward  the  fatal  atrocities 
of  tlie  dragonadc."— i^.  Parkman :  The  Old  Regime, 
cbap.  ix.  1).  167. 

Dragoons.  So  called  because  they 
used  to  be  armed  with  dragons,  i.e.  short 
muskets,  which  spouted  out  fire  like  the 
fabulous  beast  so  named.  The  head  of 
a  dragon  was  wrought  on  the  muzzle  of 
these  muskets. 

Drake  means  the  "  duck-king."  The 
old  English  word  cud  means  a  duck,  and 
cnd-ric  becomes  'dric,  drake.  Similarly 
the  German  (cnibcr-rich  is  a  male  dove, 
and  (/anse-rich,  a  male  goose,  or  gander. 

Drama.  Father  of  tlie  French  drama. 
Etienne  Jodelle  (1532-1573). 

Father  of  the  Greek  drama.  Thespis 
(sixth  century  B.C.). 

Father  of  the  Spaiihh  drama.  Lope 
de  Ye'ga  (1562-1635). 

Drama  of  Exile  {A).  A  poem  by 
Elizabeth  Barret  Browning  (1844).  The 
exile  is  Eve,  driven  out  of  Paradise  into 
the  wilderness.  Lucifer,  Gabriel,  and 
Christ  are  introduced  into  the  poem,  as 
well  as  Adam  and  Eve. 

Dramatic  Unities  {The  three).  One 
catastrophe,  one  locality,  one  day.  These 
are  Aristotle's  rules  for  tragedy,  and  the 
French  plays  strictly  follow  them. 

The  Frencli  liave  added  a  fmirtli.  one  style. 
Honce  comedy  must  not  be  mixed  witli  iraLri-dy. 
Addison's  f'nio  is  a  good  example.  Unity  of  style 
is  called  the  Unity  of  Uniformity.  SUakespearo 
disregards  all  these  canons. 

Dram'atis  Perso'nse.  The  charac- 
ters of  a  drama,  novel,  or  actual  trans- 
action. 

"The  dramatis  persona;  were  nobles,  country 
gentlemen,  justices  of  the  quornni,  and  eusto'des 
fotulo'rum  [keepers  of  the  rolls]."— 'iVie  Times. 

Drap.  One  of  Queen  Mab's  maids  of 
honour.     (Drai/toii.) 


Dra'pier's    Letters.      A    series   of 

letters  written  by  Dean  Swift  to  the  peo- 
ple of  Ireland,  advising  them  not  to  take 
the  copper  money  coined  by  William 
Wood,  by  patent  granted  by  George  I. 
These  letters  crushed  the  infamous  job, 
and  the  patent  was  cancelled. 

Dean  Swift  signed  himself  M.  B.  Dra- 
pier  in  these  letters. 

Drat  'em !    A  variant  of  Od  rot  V;«  .' 

The  first  word  is  a  minced  form  of  the 
word  God,  as  in  "  Od's  blood!"  "Od 
zounds  !  "::=  God's  wounds,  "  Od's  bodi- 
kins,"  etc.  (-SVr  Od's.)  A  correspondent 
in  JVotes  and  Queries  suggests  ''[May] 
God  out-root  them  !  "  but  we  have  the 
words  draft /c  and  throttle  (to  choke) 
which  would  better  account  for  the  a  and 
the  0,  and  which  are  also  imprecations. 

Draught  of  Tlior  (The).  The  ebb 
of  tlie  sea.  When  Asa  Thor  visited 
Jotunheim  he  was  set  to  dram  a  bowl  of. 
liquor.  He  took  three  draiights,  but 
only  succeeded  in  slightly  reducing  the 
quantity.  On  leaving  Jotunheim,  the 
king,  Giant  Skrymir,  told  him  he  need  not 
be  ashamed  of  himself,  and  showed  him 
the  sea  at  low  ebb,  saying  that  he  had 
drunk  all  the  rest  in  his  three  draughts. 
We  are  told  it  was  a  quarter  of  a  mile 
of  sea-water  that  he  drank. 

Draupnir.  Odin's  magic  riug,  from 
which  every  ninth  night  dropijed  eight 
rings  equal  in  size  and  betiuty  to  itself. 

Draw. 

To  draiv  amiss.  To  follow  scent  in 
the  wrong  direction.  Fox-hunting  term, 
where  to  draw  means  to  follow  scent. 

To  draw  a  furrow.  To  plough  or  draw 
a  plough  through  a  field  so  as  to  make 
a  furrow. 

To  draw  a  person  out.  To  entice  a 
person  to  speak  on  any  subject,  often 
with  the  intention  of  ridiculing  his  utter- 
ances. 

Draw  it  Mild  (To).  We  talk  of 
remarks  being  highly  flavoured,  of  strong 
language,  of  piquant  remarks,  of  spicy 
words  ;  so  that  to  "  draw  it  mild  "  refers 
to  liquor;  let  it  be  mild,  not  too  highly- 
flavoured,  not  too  spicy  and  strong. 

Draw  the  Long  Bow  {To).  To 
exaggerate.  Some  wonderful  tales  are 
told  of  Robin  Hood  and  other  foresters 
practised  in  the  long  bow.    {See  Bow.) 

Drawhack.  Something  to  set  against 
the  profits  or  advantages  of  a  concern. 
In  commerce,  it  is  duty  charged  on  goods 


Bra-wcansir 


381 


Drinke  and  Welcome 


paid  back  again  when  the   goods    are 
exported. 

"  It  is  only  on  goods  into  wliicli  (Uiti;ilile  com- 
modities liavu  entered  in  lurj-'e  in'oi'ortion  and 
obvious  ways  tliat  drawl)uc-ks  arc  allowed."— 7/. 
(Jeorge:  Protcctiun  w  Free  'trade  ■  cliap  i.\.  p.  sii 

Draw'cansir.  A  burlesque  tyrant 
in  Tlw  lt('//<<(r.s((/,  by  G.  Villiers,  Duke 
of  Buckingham  (1G7'2).  He  kills  every 
one,  "  sparing  neither  frieud  nor  foe." 
Thg  uame  stands  for  a  blustering  brag- 
gart, and  tlie  farce  is  said  to  have  been 
a  satire  on  Drydeu's  inflated  tragedies. 
(6te  Bayes,  Bobadil.) 

"[He]  frights  Lis  mistress,  snubs  tip  kings, 
battles  armies,  and  does  wliat  be  will,  wilbont 
regard  to  numbers,  good  sense,  or  justice."— 
liihies:  Thf  luluarsal. 

Drawing-room.  A  room  to  Avhich 
ladies  u-itJulvinv  or  retire  after  dinner. 
Also  a  levee  where  ladies  are  presented 
to  the  sovereign. 

Drawing  the  Cork.     Giving  one  a 

bloody  nose.     {8ic  Claeet.) 

Drawing  the  King's  (or  Queen's) 
Picture.     Coining  false  money. 

Drawing  the  Nail,  i.e.  absolving 
oneself  of  a  vow.  In  Cheshire,  two  or 
more  persons  would  agree  to  do  some- 
thing, or  to  abstain  from  something,  say 
drinking  beer  ;  and  they  would  go  into 
a  wood,  and  register  their  vow  by  driving 
a  nail  into  a  tree,  swearing  to  keep  their 
vow  as  long  as  that  nail  remained  in  the 
tree.  If  tliey  repented  of  their  vow, 
some  or  all  of  the  party  went  and  drew 
out  tlie  nail,  whereupon  the  vow  was 
cancelled. 

Drawlatches.  Thieves,  robbers, 
wasters,  and  roberdsmen  (5  Edward  III. 
c.  14).  About  equal  to  door-openers 
and  shop-lifters. 

Drawn.  Iluiigcd,  drawn,  and  qiiar- 
ievcd,  or  l)rawn,  lianycd,  and  quartered. 
The  question  turns  on  the  meaning  of 
drawn.  The  evidence  seems  to  be  that 
traitors  were  drawn  to  the  place  of 
execution,  then  hanged,  then  "drawn" 
or  disembowelled,  and  then  quartered. 
Thus  the  sentence  on  Sir  William  Wal- 
lace was  that  he  should  be  drawn  {detra- 
haiar)  from  the  Palace  of  Westminster 
to  the  Tower,  etc.,  then  hanged  {sitxpen- 
da(iir),  then  disembowelled  or  drawn 
{decahlttr),  then  beheaded  and  quar- 
tered {dceoUetur  et  decaplteiiir).  (See 
Notes  and  Queries,  August  15th,  1891.) 

V  If  by  "  drawn  "  is  meant  convej'ed 
to  the  place  of  execution,  the  phrase 
shoiild  be  "  Drawn,  hanged,  and  quar- 
tered;" but  if  the  word  is  used  as  a 
synonym  of  disembowelled,  the  phrase 


should  be  "Hanged,  drawn,  and  quar- 
tered." 

"  Lord  Ellcnborough  used  to  say  to  those  con- 
denjned,  '  You  are  drawn  on  hurdles  to  the  i)Ia<-e 
of  execution,  where  you  are  to  be  hanged,  but  mit, 
till  you  are  dead  ;  for,  while  still  living,  your 
body  is  to  be  taken  down,  your  liowels  torn  out 
and  burnt  befi^re  your  lace;  your  lie.id  is  then 
cut  off,  and  your  bodv  di\  iilcd  into  fminiuarters." 
—aaitlciiiaii.^  MiiijdzniL,  l;-i«,  part  i.  iii.  177,  •-'75. 

Drawn  Battle.  A  battle  in  which 
the  troops  on  both  sides  are  drawn  off, 
neither  combatants  claiming  the  victory. 

Dreadnought.  The  Seaman's  Hos- 
pital Society  ;  a  floating  hospital. 

Dream  Authorship.  It  is  said  that 
Coleridge  wrote  his  Kubla  Khan,  a  poem, 
in  a  dream. 

Coleridge  may  have  dreamt  these  lines, 
but  without  doubt  Purchas's  I'dijrhnage 
haunted  his  dreams,  for  the  resemblance 
is  indubitable. 

Dream'er.  The  Immurial  Dreamer. 
John  Buuyau  (1628- 1CS8). 

Dreng.  A  servant  boj',  similar  to 
the  French  gar<;on  and  Latin  puer.  A 
Danish  word,  which  occurs  in  Domes- 
day Book. 

Dress  your  Jacket  (or  hide).  I'' II 
dress  your  jewket  for  you.  I'll  give  you 
a  beating.  IHl  yive  you  a  dressing,  or  a 
good  dressing.  To  dress  a  horse^  is  to 
curry  it,  rub  it,  and  comb  it.  To  dress 
ore  is  to  break  it  up,  cru.sh  it,  and  pow- 
der it  in  the  stamping  mill.  The  original 
idea  of  dressing  is  preserved,  but  the 
method  cmploj'ed  in  dressing  horses,  ore, 
etc. ,  is  the  prevailing  idea  in  the  phrases 
referred  to. 

Dresser.  A  Iritehen  dresser,  the 
French  dressoir,  a  sideboard,  verb  dres- 
ser, to  raise,  set  up. 

"  The  pcwlcr  plates  on  the  dresser." 

Lonyfellow  :  Evangelivc,  i.  2. 

Drink.  Auacharsis  said :  ' '  The  first 
cup  for  thirst,  the  second  for  pleasure, 
the  third  for  intemperance,  and  the  rest 
for  madness." 

Drink  Deep.  Drink  a  deep  draught. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  peg  tankards. 
Those  who  drank  deep,  drauk  to  the 
lower  pegs.     {Sec  Teg.) 

••  We'll  teach  you  to  drink  deep  ere  you  depart." 
—SJiulca^Iicarc :  HamJet,  i.  -'. 

Drinke  and  Welcome.     One  of  the 

numerous  publications  of  John  Taylor, 
the  Water  Poet  (10;i7).  The  subject  is 
thus  set  forth  :  "  The  famous  Historic  of 
the  most  jaarts  of  Drinks  in  use  now  in 
the  Kingdomes  of  G.  Britaine  and  Ire- 
land ;   with  an  especiall  declaration  of 


iDrink 


382 


Drivelling 


the  potency,  vertue,  and  operation  of 
our  English  Ale.  With  a  description  of 
all  sorts  of  Waters,  from  the  Oceau-sea 
to  the  Teares  of  a  Woman.  As  also  the 
causes  of  all  sorts  of  weather,  faire  or 
foule,  sleet,  raine,  haile,  frost,  snow, 
fogges,  mists,  vapours,  clouds,  stormes, 
wiudes,  thunder,  and  lightning.  Com- 
piled iirst  in  High  Dutch  Tongue  Ly  the 
painef uU  and  industrious  Huldiicke  van 
Speagle,  a  grammatical  brewer  of 
Lubeck  ;  and  now  most  learnedly  en- 
larged, amplified,  and  translated  into 
English  verse  and  prose,  by  John  Taylor, 
the  Water  Poet." 

Drink  like  a  Fish  (To).  To  drink 
abundantly.  Many  fish  swim  with  their 
mouths  open. 

Drinking  Healths  was  a  Eoman 
custom.  Thus,  in  Plautus,  we  read  of  a 
man  drinking  to  his  mistress  with  these 
words  :  '■'■Bene  vos,  bene  nos,  how  ir,  bene 
inc,  hcHC  nviiirnni  ctlam  IStephuniiiiu  " 
(Here's  to  you,  here's  to  us  all,  here's 
to  thee,  here's  to  me,  here's  to  our  dear 

).     {Stkh.  V.  4.)     Persius  (v.  1,  20) 

has  a  similar  verse:  ^'' Bene  niihi,  bene 
robis,  bene  ami'ccc  iiostrce"  (Here's  to 
myself,  here's  to  you,  and  here's  to  I 
shan't  say  who).  Martial,  Ovid,  Horace, 
etc. ,  refer  to  the  same  custom. 

The  ancient  Greeks  drank  healths. 
Thus,  when  Theramenes  was  condemned 
by  the  Thirty  Tyrants  to  di'ink  hemlock, 
he  said:  ^'  Ilocp/dcro  Critim'' — the  man 
who  condemned  him  to  death. 

The  ancient  Saxons  followed  the  same 
habit,  and  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  says 
that  Hengist  invited  King  Vortigein  to 
a  banquet  to  see  his  new  levies.  After 
the  meats  were  removed,  Kowe'na,  the 
beautiful  daughter  of  Hengist,  entered 
with  a  golden  cup  full  of  wine,  and, 
making  obeisance,  said,  "■Laiierd  kinine/, 
vaclit  heW''  (Lord  King,  your  health). 
The  king  then  drank  and  replied,  '■'■  llrinc 
]ieiV  (Here's  to  you).  {Ocdjf'roj  of 
Monmouth,  book  vi.  12.)  Eobert  de 
Brunne  refers  to  this  custom : 

"  Tbis  is  tlier  custom  and  bev  gest 
When  they  are  at  the  ale  or  test : 
]lk  man  that  levis  gware  him  drink 
Salle  say  '  Wosseiile'  to  him  drink  ; 
He  that  biddis  sail  say  '  Wassaile,' 
The  tother  salle  say  again  '  Drinkaille.' 
That  says  '  WoisseiUe'  drinks  of  the  cup, 
Kiss  and  his  felaw  he  gives  it  up." 

liobert  de  Brunne. 

V  In  drinking  healths  we  hold  our 
hands  up  towards  the  person  toasted 
and  say,  "Your  health  ..."  The 
Greeks  handed  the  cup  to  the  person 
toasted  and  said,  "This  to  thee,"  "  Gncci 
tn  ejj^tHiti  poculum   alicui  tradiiiiri,  cum 


nominare  solent."  Our  holding  out  the 
wine-glass  is  a  rehc  of  this  Greek 
custom. 

Drinking  Song.  The  oldest  in  the 
language  is  in  the  second  act  of  Gaiuiiier 
Gurion's  Needle,  by  John  Stdl,  called 
Tlie  Jolly  Bishop.    It  begins : 

"  I  cannot  eat  but  little  meat, 
Jly  stomach  is  not  good." 

Drinking    at    Freeman's    Quay, 

that  is,  drinking  gratis.  At  one  time,  all 
jiorters  and  carmen  calling  at  Freeman's 
Quay,  near  London  Bridge,  had  a  pot  of 
beer  given  them  gratis. 

Drive.     (Anglo-Saxon  drif-an.) 

'To  drive  a  good  bargain.  To  exact  more 

than  is  quite  equable. 

"Heaven   would   no   bargain    for   its   blessings 
drive."  Brydeii:  Astrcea  Ileduj:,\YA':. 

To  drive  a  roaring  trade.  To  be  doing 
a  brisk  business.  The  allusion  is  to 
a  coachman  who  drives  so  fast  that  his 
horses  pant  and  roar  for  breath. 

To  drive  tlie  swine  ihroiiyh  the  hanki 
of  yarn.  To  sjjoil  what  has  been  pain- 
fully done ;  to  squander  thrift.  In 
Scotland,  the  yarn  wrought  in  the  winter 
(called  the  gude-wife's  thrift)  is  laid 
down  by  the  burn-side  to  bleach,  and 
is  pecuhai'ly  exjjosed  to  damage  from 
passing  animals.  Sometimes  a  herd  of 
jjigs  driven  along  the  road  will  run  over 
the  hanks,  and  sometimes  they  will  stray 
over  them  from  some  neighbouring  farm- 
yard and  do  a  vast  amount  of  harm. 

Drive  at  {To).  What  arc  yon  dririny 
at  i  What  do  you  want  to  prove?  What 
do  you  want  me  to  infer  ?  We  say  the 
"  wind  drove  against  the  sails,"  i.e. 
rushed  or  moved  violently  against  them. 
Falstaff  tells  us  of  "  four  rogues  in 
buckram  [who]  let  drive  at  him,"  where 
at  means  against  or  towards.  "What 
are  you  driving  at  ?  "  is,  against  or  to- 
wards what  object  are  you  driving  or 
moving  ? 

Drive  Off.  To  defer,  to  procrasti- 
nate. The  idea  is,  running  away  or 
ch'awing  off  from  something  that  ought 
to  be  done,  with  the  promise  of  commg 
to  it  at  a  future  time. 

Driveller.  An  idiot,  an  imbecile, 
whose  saliva  drivels  out  of  his  mouth. 

"  And  .Swift  expires  a  drivellerand  a  show." 
Drivelling    Dotage.    In  weak    old 
age  saliva  drops  unconsciously  from  the 
mouth. 

"This  exhiljition  of  drivelling  dotage  was  at- 
tended with  many  other  incoherent  expressii>ns." 
— >/.  P.  Kennedy  :  The  Sa-alluw  liani,  chap,  xlvil. 
p.  463. 


Briver  of  Europe 


§83 


iDrcwned 


Driver  of  Europe  {Le  Cocher  cle 
VEiirnpc).  So  the  Empress  of  Russia 
used  to  call  the  Due  de  Choiseul,  minis- 
ter of  Louis  XV.,  because  he  had  spies 
all  over  Europe,  aud  thus  ruled  its 
political  cabals. 

Drivers,  in  the  Irish  uprising  about 
18-13,  were  persons  engaged  by  laud- 
lords  to  drive  all  the  live  stock  of  de- 
faulting tenants  and  lodge  them  in  a 
l)ouud  [like  that  at  Carrickmacross] . 
They  were  resisted  by  the  Molly  Ma- 
guires. 

Drives  fat  Oxen  {Who).  Brook,  in 
his  Gimturiis  Yasa,  says:  ''Who  rules 
o'er  freemen  should  himself  be  free," 
which  Dr.  Johnson  parodied  thus:  "Who 
diives  fat  oxen  should  himself  be  fat." 
{BosiccWs  Life,  year  1784.) 

Driving  for  Rent,  iu  Ireland,  was  a 
summary  way  of  recovering  rent  by 
driving  cattle  to  a  pound,  aud  keeping 
them  till  the  rent  was  paid,  or  selling 
them  by  auction. 

"It  was  detennineJ  tbat  I  and  the  baililfs 
sliDulil  gi)  out  in  a  Ixiily  and  '  drive  for  reut.'"— 
Trench  :  .Realities  of  Irish  Life,  chap.  v. 

Driving  Pigs.  ITe  is  drivbig  pigs, 
or  driving  pigs  to  market — i.e.  snoring 
like  pigs,  whose  grunt  resembles  the 
snore  of  a  sleeper. 

Droit  d'Aubaine.  In  France  the 
king  was  entitled,  at  the  death  of 
foreign  residents  (excejit  Swiss  and 
Scots),  to  all  their  movable  estates;  the 
law  was  only  abolished  in  1819.  Au- 
bain  means  "  alien,"  and  droit  d''aubuinc 
the  "right  over  an  alien's  property." 

"Had  I  died  that  night  of  an  indigestion,  the 
whole  wnrUl  couUl  not  bavesnspended  tlieeffiects 
of  tlie  ilruits  d'diibaine  :  my  shirts  and  blacli  pair 
of  hreeclics,  pnrtinauteau  and  all,  mnst  have  gone 
to  the  king.of  France."— Sferjie ;  SentimentalJoiir- 
ney  (Introduction). 

Drole.  "  C'est  nn  drole,'"  or  "  C'est 
nn  drole  d'homme''^  (he  is  a  rum  cus- 
tomer). "  Un  jogeux  drole''''  means  a 
boon  companion.  "  JJne  drole  de  ehose  " 
means  a  queer  thing ;  something  one 
can  make  neither  head  nor  tail  of. 

Dro'mio.  The  brothers  Dromio.  Two 
brothers  exactly  alike,  who  serve  two 
brothers  exactly  alike,  and  the  mistakes 
of  masters  and  men  form  the  fun  of 
Shakespeare's  Comedg  of  Errors,  based 
on  the  Jlencech'jiii  of  Plautus. 

Drone  (1  syl.).  The  largest  tube  of 
a  bagpipe ;  so  called  because  it  sounds 
only  one  continuous  note,  ((xermau, 
drohne,  verb,  drohnen,  to  groan  or  drone.) 

A  drone.  An  idle  person  who  lives  on 
the  means  of  another,  as  drones  on  the 


honey  collected  by  bees ;    a  sluggard. 
(Anglo-Saxon  drcen,  a  male  bee.) 

Drop.  To  take  a  drop.  A  euphemism 
for  taking  what  the  drinker  chooses  to 
call  by  that  term.  It  may  be  auytliing 
from  a  si^j  to  a  Dutchman's  draught. 

A  drop  of  the  cratiir.  In  Ireland 
means  a  drink  of  whisky,  or  "creature- 
comfort." 

2h  take  a  drop  too  iiineh.  To  be  in- 
toxicated. If  it  is  the  "last  feather  which 
breaks  the  camel's  back,"  it  is  the  drop 
too  much  which  produces  intoxication. 

lo  take  one^s  drops.  To  diink  spirits 
in  private. 

Drop  {To).  To  drop  an  acquaintance 
is  quietly  to  cease  visiting  and  inviting 
an  acquaintance.  The  opposite  of  pick- 
ing up  or  taking  up  an  acquaintance. 

Drop  in  {To).  To  make  a  casual 
call,  not  invited ;  to  pay  an  informal 
visit.  The  allusion  is  to  fruit  and  other 
things  falling  down  suddenly,  unex- 
pectedly, or  accidentally.  It  is  the  )«- 
transitive  verh,  not  the  transitive,  which 
means  to  "  let  fall." 

Drop  off  {To).  "Friends  drop  off," 
fall  away  gradually.  "To  drop  off  to 
sleep,"  to  fall  asleep  (especially  in 
weariness  or  sickness) . 

Drop  Serene  {gnfta  serena).  An 
old  name  for  amauro'sis.  It  was  at  one 
time  thought  that  a  transparent,  watery 
humour,  distUling  on  the  optic  nerve, 
would  produce  blindness  wilhout  chang- 
ing the  appearance  of  the  eye. 
"So  thick  a  'drop  serene'  hath  (luenched  these 
or))S.''  Milton  :  I'aradise  Lout,  iii.  25. 

Drown  the  Miller  {To).  To  put 
too  much  water  into  grog  or  tea.  The 
idea  is  that  the  supply  of  water  is  so 
great  that  even  the  miller,  who  uses  a 
water  wheel,  is  drowned  with  it. 

Drowned  Rat.  As  wet  as  a  drowned 
rat — i.e.  soaking  wet.  Drowned  rats 
certainly  look  deplorably  wet,  but  so 
also  do  drowned  mice,  drowned  cats,  and 
drowned  dogs,  etc. 

Drowned  in  a  Butt  of  Malmsey. 

George,  Duke  of  Clarence,  being  allowed 
to  choose  by  what  death  he  would  die, 
chose  drowning  in  malmsey  ^vine  (1477). 
See  the  continuation  of  3to)tstrelet,  196  ; 
Falgosus,  ix.  12 ;  Martin  du  Bellais's 
Memoirs  (year  1514). 

Admitting  this  legend  to  be  an  his- 
toric fact,  it  is  not  unique :  Michael 
Harslob,  of  Berlin,  wished  to  meet 
death  in  a  similar  way  in  1571,  if  we 


Drowning  Men 


38i 


Drunkenness 


may    credit     the     iuscriptiou    on    his 
tomb  : — 

"J  11  cyallio  villi  pleno  cum  iimscn  jierii-et, 
Bio,  ait  Oeiieus,  spinite  porire  veliiii." 

"  When  in  a  cup  of  wino  a  tly  was  drowncil, 
So,  said  Viuarius,  may  my  days  be  crowned." 

Drowning  Men.  Droicnuit/  men 
catch  at  siratcn.  Persons  in  desjierate 
circumstances  cling  in  hope  to  trifles 
•wholly  inadequate  to  rescue  or  even  help 
them. 

Drows  or  Trows.  A  sort  of  fairy 
race,  residing  in  hills  a7id  caverns.  They 
are  curious  artificers  in  iron  and  precious 
metals.     {Zetland  superstition.) 

"I  bun^  about  tliy  neck  tliat  gifted  chain, 
whicli  all  in  our  isles  know  was  wrouflit  by  no 
earthly  artist,  but  liy  tlie  Drows  in  the  secret 
recesses  of  their  caverns.''— .s'coH;  The  I'irutc, 
chap.  X. 

Drub,  Drubbing.  To  flog,  a  flog- 
ging. Compare  Greek  tribo,  to  rub, 
bruise  ;  Anglo-Saxon,  clrcpan,  to  beat. 

Drug.  It  is  a  mere  drug  in  the  mar- 
lict.  Something  not  called  for,  which 
no  one  will  buy.  French  drogue  =  rub- 
bish, as  Cc  n''est  que  dc  la  drogue  ;  hence 
droguet  (drugget),  inferior  carpet-cloth 
made  of  rubbisli  or  inferior  wool,  etc. 

Druid.  A  chief  priest  (Celtic,  der, 
superior;  «7/f7r/,  priest  or  instructor) .  In 
Taliesiu  we  read,  Bum  gwpdd  yugwarth 
an  (at  length  I  became  a  priest  or  u-gdd). 
It  was  after  this  period  that  the  wydds 
were  divided  into  two  classes,  the  i)er- 
wydds  and  the  Go-wydds  (D'ruids  and 
Ovidds).  Every  chief  had  his  druid,  and 
every  chief  di'uid  was  allowed  a  guard  of 
thirty  men  [Htraho).  The  order  was  very 
wealthy.  (Not  derived  from  the  Greek 
drus,  an  oak.) 

V  Patricius  tells  us  that  the  Druids 
were  wont  to  borrow  money  to  be  re- 
paid in  the  life  to  come.  His  words  are, 
"DruidfB  jjecuniam  mutuo  accipiebaut 
in  posteriore  vita  reddituri." 

'  Like  money  by  the  Druids  borrowed, 
In  fother  world  to  be  restored." 

Sutler:  Iliuliliras,  part  iii.  canto  i. 

Drum.  A  crowded  evening  party, 
a  contraction  of  "  di'a wing  -  room  " 
(dr'-'oom).  Cominges,  the  French  am- 
bassador, writing  to  Louis  XIV.,  calls 
these  assemblies  drerums  and  driwronies. 
{Hee  EouT,  Hurricane.) 

"Tlie  Conite  de  Broslie  .  .  .  coes  sniiietimes  to 
the  drernins,  and  sometimes  to  the  driwrome  of 
tlie  Piincess  of  Wales."—  Niiiitientli  Ceiditry  : 
Coiiite  de  Cumiime.~t ;  8ept.,  IS'.ii,  p.  4<jl. 

"  It  isimpossilile  to  live  in  a  drum."— iadj/ J/. 
W.  Montagu. 

John  T)ruin^s  cntcrt(unment.  Turning 
an  unwelcome  guest  out  of  doors.     The 


allusion  is  to  drumming  a  soldier  out  of 
a  regiment. 

Drum  Ecclesiastic.  The  puljiit 
cushion,  often  vigorously  thumped  by 
whixt  are  termed  "  rousing  preachers." 

"  Wlien  Gospel  fruiiipeter,  surroundeil 
With  loiiK-<'ared  rout,  to  liattle  siiiinded  ; 
And  pulpit,  drum  ecdi'siastic, 
Was  beat  wiih  llsi  iiisii^ad  of  a  stick." 

lialhr :  JJiidiljrds,  part  i.  c.iuto  1. 

Drum-head    Court-martial.     One 

held  in  haste ;  like  a  coiut-iuartitil  sum- 
moned on  the  field  round  the  big  drum 
to  deal  summarily  with  an  oft'ender. 

Drummers.  So  commercial  travel- 
lers are  called  in  America,  because  their 
vocation  is  to  drum  wp  recruits  or  c\is- 
tomers. 

Drum'mond  Light.  The  limelight. 
So  named  fronr  Captain  Thomas  Druni- 
moud,  E..E. 

"  Wisdom  thinks,  and  makes  a  solar  Dnimmmid 
Lifflitatu  point  of  dull  lime."— Gei/iie;  Entering 
on  Life  tlleadinfe',  p..'Jll). 

Drumsticks.  Legs.  The  leg  of  a 
cooked  fowl  is  called  a  drumstick. 

Drunk.     (Anglo-Saxon  drinc-an.) 

])runk  as  a  fiddler.  The  reference  is  to 
the  fiddler  at  wakes,  fairs,  and  on  board 
ship,  who  used  to  be  jjaid  in  liquor  for 
jilaying  to  rustic  dancers. 

])runk  us  a  lord.  Before  the  great 
temperance  movement  set  in,  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
those  who  could  aiford  to  drink  thought 
it  quite  eonniic  ilfu.utio  driuk  two,  three, 
or  even  more  bottles  of  port  wine  for 
dinner,  and  few  dinners  ended  witli- 
out  placing  the  guests  under  the  tal)le 
in  a  liopeless  state  of  intoxication.  The 
temperate  habits  of  the  last  quarter 
of  tlie  nineteenth  century  render's  this 
phrase  now  almost  unintelligible. 

l)runk  as  blazes.  "  Blazes  "  of  course 
means  the  devil. 

Drunk  as  C/iloe.  Chloe,  or  rather 
Cloe  (2  syl.),  is  the  cobbler's  wife  of 
Linden  Grove,  to  whom  Prior,  the  poet, 
was  attached.  She  was  notorious  for 
her  drinking  habits. 

Drunk  as  David's  sou;  {See  Davy's 
Sow.) 

Drunkard's  Cloak  (A).  A  tub 
with  holes  for  the  arms  to  pass  through. 
At  one  time  used  for  drunkards  and 
scolds  by  way  of  imnishment. 

Drunken  Deddington.  One  dead 
drunk.  The  propter  name  is  a  play  on 
the  word  dead. 

Drunkenness.  The  seven  der/rees  : 
(1)   Ape  drunk;    (2)   Lion  drunk;    (3) 


Drunkenness 


385 


Dualism 


Swine  drunk  ;  (4)  Sheep  drunk  ;  (5) 
Martin  drunk  ;  (6)  Goat  drunk  ;  (7)  Fox 
drunk.     (X(ii>/i.) 

Drunkenness.  It  is  said  that  if 
childi-en  eat  owl's  eggs  they  will  never 
be  addicted  to  strong  drinks. 

"Tons  les  oiseaux  lui  [i.e.  to  Baccluis]  etaient 
aareable,  excepte  la  cbouett.e  iloiit  les  (inifs 
avaient  la  vertu  de  renilre  les  eufans  iiui  les 
mangeaieat  ennemisldu  \in."— Noel :  Diction luilrc 
de  la  Fable,  vol.  i.  p.  ai6. 

Drupner  [the  dripper'].  A  gold  ring 
given  to  Odin  ;  every  ninth  night  other 
rings  dropped  from  it  of  e(iual  value  to 
itself.     {The  Edda.) 

Drury  Lane  (London)  takes  its  name 
from  the  habitation  of  the  great  Drury 
.  family.  Sir  "William  Drury,  K.G.,  was 
a  most  able  commander  in  the  Irish 
wars.  Drury  House  stood  on  the  site  of 
the  present  Olympic  theatre. 

Dru'ses  (2  syl.).  A  people  of  Syria 
governed  by  emirs.  Their  faith  is  a 
mixture  of  the  Pentateuch,  the  Gospel, 
the  Koran,  and  Sutism.  They  offer  up 
their  devotions  both  in  mosques  and 
churches,  worship  the  images  of  saints, 
and  yet  observe  the  fast  of  Ram'adan. 
Their  language  is  pure  Arabic.  (Hakera, 
the  incarnate  spirit,  was  assisted  by 
DarSsi  in  propounding  his  rehgiou  to 
these  Syrians ;  and  the  word  JJvhsc  is 
said  to  be  derived  from  Darasi,  shortened 
into  D'rasi.) 

Dry.  Thirsty.  Hence  to  drink  is  to 
"  wet  your  whistle  "  {i.e.  thi'oat)  ;  and 
malt  liquor  is  called  "heavy  wet." 
(Anglo-Saxon  dnjff,  dry.) 

Dry  Blow  {A).  A  blow  which  does 
not  bring  blood. 

Dry  Goods  (in  merchandise),  such  as 
cloths,  stuff's,  silks,  laces,  and  drapery 
in  genera],  as  opposed  to  groceries. 

Dry  Lodgings.  Sleeping  accommo- 
dation without  board.  Gentlemen  who 
take  their  meals  at  clubs  live  in  dry 
lodgings. 

"  Drv  Loilginge  of  seven  weeks,  £0  4s.  Id."— .S'/r 
W.  Scott:  Old  Mortality  (Intr.  Rob.  Patterson 
deb.  to  Margaret  Chrystale). 

Dry-nurse.  When  a  superior  officer 
does  not  know  his  duty,  and  is  in- 
structed in  it  by  an  inferior  officer,  he  is 
said  to  be  diy-nursed.  The  inferior 
nurses  the  superior,  as  a  dry-nurse  rears 
an  infant. 

Dry  Rot.  The  spontaneous  rot  of 
timber  or  wall-paper,  not  unfrequently 
produced  by  certain  fungi  nttachiug 
themselves  tliereto.  It  is  called  dry  rot 
because    the    wood    is    not    puiposely 

25 


exposed  to  wet,  although,  without  doubt, 
damj)  from  defective  ventilation  is 
largely  present,  and  the  greenness  of 
wood  employed  contributes  gi-eatly  to 
the  decay. 

Dry  Sea  (A).  A  sandy  desert.  The 
camel  is  the  ship  of  the  desert.  We  read 
of  the  Persian  sea  of  sand. 

"  The  see  that  men  slepeii  the  grave1,v  see,  that, 
is  alle  gravelle  and  sond  with  oulen  oiiy  droiie  of 
\>a,lTe."—iIam{evilte :  Travels. 

Dry  Shave  (A).  A  shave  without 
soaping  the  face  ;  to  scrape  the  face  with 
a  piece  of  iron  hoop  ;  to  scratch  the  face  ; 
to  box  it  and  bruise  it.  Sometimes  it 
means  to  beat  and  bruise  generally  ;  ill 
usage. 

"  The  fellow  will  get  a  dry  shave." 
Peter  Pindar:  Great  Cry  and  Little  Wool,  Ep.  1. 
"  I'll  shave  her,  like  a  ininished  soldier,  dry." 
J'ttcr  Pindar :  Tlie  Lousiad,  canto  ii. 

Dry  Style  (of  writing).  Without 
pathos,  without  light  and  shade  ;  dull 
level,  and  unamusing. 

Dry  Wine.  Opposed  to  sweet  or 
fruity  wine.  In  sweet  wine  some  of  the 
sugar  is  not  yet  decomposed ;  in  dri/ 
wine  all  the  sugar  has  been  converted 
into  alcohol.  The  doctoring  of  wiue  to 
improve  its  quaUty  is  called  dosage. 

"  rpon  the  nature  and  amount  of  the  dosage, 
the  character  of  the  wiue  (whether  it  he  dry  or 
sweet,  light  or  strcjug)  very  much  depends." — 
Yizetelly :  Facts  about  Champagne,  chai).  v.  p.  59. 

Dry'ads.  Nymphs  of  the  trees. 
(Greek,  drus,  any  forest  tree.)  They 
were  supposed  to  live  in  the  trees  and 
die  when  the  trees  died.  Eurydlce,  the 
wife  of  Orpheus  (2  syl.)  the  poet,  was  a 
dryad. 

Dryasdust  {Rer.  Dr.).  A  heavy', 
plodding  author,  very  prosy,  very  dull, 
and  very  learned  ;  an  antic^uary.  Sir 
Walter  Scott  employs  the  name  to  bring 
out  the  prefatory  matter  of  some  of  his 
novels. 

"The  Prussian  Doasdust  .  .  .  excels  all  other 
'Dryasdusts'  yet  V.nown."—Carlyle. 

Du'alism.  A  system  of  philosophy 
which  refers  all  things  that  exist  to  two 
ultimate  principles.  It  is  eminently  a 
Persian  doctrine.  The  Oi-phic  poets 
made  the  ultimate  principles  of  all 
things  to  be  Water  and  Night,  or  Time 
and  Necessity.  In  theology  the  Mani- 
che'an  doctrine  is  dualistic.  In  modern 
philosophy  it  is  opposed  to  monism  (q.r.), 
and  insists  that  the  creator  and  creation, 
mind  and  body,  are  distinct  entities. 
That  creation  is  not  deity,  and  that 
mind  is  not  an  offspring  of  matter.  {See 
Monism.) 


Dub 


386 


Dudgeon 


Dub.  To  make  a  knight  by  giving 
him  a  hloic.  Dr.  Tusler  says,  "The  an- 
cient method  of  knighting  was  by  a  box 
on  the  ear,  implying  that  it  woukl  bo 
the  hist  he  woukl  receive,  as  he  woukl 
henceforth  be  free  to  maintain  liis  own 
honour."  The  jiresent  ceremony  is  to 
tai)  the  shoulder  with  a  sword.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  duhhan,  to  strike  with  a  blow.) 

Dub  Up !  Pay  down  the  money.  A 
dub  is  an  Anglo -Indian  coin,  hence 
"  down  with  your  dubs,"  money  down. 
A  '■  doubloon"  is  a  double  pistole. 

Dublin  (the  Irish  duhh-l'mn,  the 
"black  pool  ").  The  chief  part  of  the 
city  stands  on  land  reclaimed  from  the 
river  Liffey  or  the  sea. 

True  CIS  the  Dc'il  is  in  JDiihUn  cifij. 
{Burns  :  Death  and  Dr.  Hornbodk.) 
Probably  Burns  refers  to  the  Scandi- 
navian name  Dirc/in,  which  suggested 
fii-st  Divel  and  then  Devil  or  Deil, 

Dubs  in  "  marbles  "  is  a  contraction 
of  double  or  doublets.  Thus,  if  a  player 
knocks  two  marbles  out  of  the  ring,  he 
cries  dubs,  before  the  atlversary  cries 
"no  dubs,"  and  claims  them  both. 

Duc'at.  A  piece  of  money  ;  so  called 
from  the  legend  on  the  early  Sicilian 
pieces:  Sit  tibi,  C/irifte,  daius,  quein  In 
regis,  istc  ducdtus  (May  this  duchy 
\(lucut-us'\  which  you  rule  be  devoted  to 
you,  O  Christ). 

Duchesne  (2  syl.).  Le plre Bnelusne. 
Jacques  Ei'ne  Hebert,  cliief  of  the  Cor- 
delier Club  in  the  French  Revolution, 
the  members  of  which  were  called 
Hebertists.  He  was  called  "  Fathe'r 
Duchesne,"  from  the  name  of  ids  vile 
journal.     (1755-1794.) 

Ducbess.  The  wife  or  widow  of  a 
duke  ;  but  an  old  woman  is  often  jocosely 
termed  an  old  duchess  or  a  regular  old 
duchess.  The  longevity  of  the  peers  and 
peeresses  is  certainly  very  striking. 

Duck.  A  lame  duch.  A  stock-jobber 
who  will  not,  or  cannot,  pay  his  losses. 
He  has  to  "  waddle  out  of  the  alley  like 
a  lame  duck." 

Like  a  dying  duck  in  a  thunderstorm. 
Quite  chop-fallen. 

Ih  get  a  duck.  A  contraction  of  duck's 
egg  or  0,  in  cricket.  A  player  who  gets 
no  run  off  his  bat  is  marked  down  0. 

Duck  Lane.     A  row    for    old    and 

second-hand  books  which  stood  formerly 
near  Smithfiekl,  but  has  given  way  to 
city  improvements.     It  might  be  called 


the  Holywell  Street  of  Queen  Anne's 

reign. 

"  Scotists  and  Tliomists  now  in  jieace  remain 
Amidst  tbeir  kindred  col)\vehs  in  Diu-k  Lane." 
Pope:  Essay  on  Criticism. 

Duck's  Egg.  Broke  his  duck^s  egg. 
Took  his  first  school  prize.  In  cricket 
a  "  duck's  egg  "  or  0  in  a  score  is  broken 
by  a  run. 

"  W^liat  a  proud  and  happy  day  it.  was  to  Lucy 
wlien  little  Herbert,  in  pulilic-sclmcil  parlance, 
•broke  Liis  duck's  egif— otherwise,  took  his  first 
priiie."— -1  FlUvw  ufTi-iHitu,  chap.  i. 

Duck's-foot  Lane  [City.]  A  cor- 
ruption of  Duke's  Foot  Lane  ;  so  called 
from  the  Dukes  of  Suffolk,  whose  manor- 
house  was  there. 

Ducks  and  Drakes.  The  ricochet- 
ing or  rebounding  of  a  stone  thrown 
from  the  hand  to  skim  along  the  surface 
of  a  pond  or  river. 

To  inake  ducks  and  drakes  of  o«r's 
inniicg.  To  throw  it  away  as  stones  with 
which  "ducks  and  drakes"  are  made 
on  water.  The  allusion  is  to  the  sport 
of  throwing  stones  to  skim  over  water 
for  the  sake  of  seeing  them  ricocheting 
or  rebounding. 

"  What  llfiured  slates  arc  licst  to  niako 
Ou  watery  surface  duck  and  drake." 

Butler  :  UudibruK,  ii.  .3. 
"Mr.  Locke  Harper  found  out,  a  month  after 
liis  niarriaf-'e,  that  somebody  had  made  ducks  and 
drakes  of   his  wife's  money."— /J/mi/i  M.  Crailc: 
Aijotlia's  IIii!<band,  chap,  xxiii. 

Duckie.  Diminutive  of  "duck,"  a 
term  of  endeanneiit  =  darling  or  beloved 
one.  (Norwegian  and  Danish,  dukke,  a 
doll,  a  baby.) 

Ducking  (A).  A  drenching.  (Ger- 
man, diirkc/i,  to  dive  imder  water.) 

Duckweed.  A  weed  which  floats  on 
the  surface  of  stagnant  water  and  forms 
a  harbour  for  insects  which  ducks  feed 
on.  Its  Latin  name  is  "  Lemna ;  "  Greek, 
linme  (a  stagnant  i)ool). 

Dude.  A  masher.  One  who  renders 
himself  conspicuous  liy  aft'ectatiou  of 
dress,  manners,  and  speech.  The  word 
was  first  familiarised  in  London  in  1881, 
and  is  a  revival  of  the  old  word  dudes 
(clothes).  We  have  several  derivations,  as 
dudder,  one  who  sells  dress-pieces ;  dud- 
derg,  a  rag-.shop ;  duddle,  to  wrap  ui> 
warmly  {Haiti well),  etc.  It  is  not  of 
American  origin. 

"  I  should  just  as  soon  expect  to  see  Mercntio 
smoke  a  cigarette,  as  to  find  him  ambling  almut 
the  stage  with  the  mincing  manners  of  a  dude."— 
Jefferson:  Century  Magazine,  January,  Isuo,  p.  SJS. 

Dudeism  (3  syl.).  The  tomfoolery 
of  a  dude  ('2  syl.). 

Dudgeon  {The).  The  handle  of  a 
dagger,  at  one  time  made  of  box- wood 


Dudman 


387 


Duke 


root,  called  "  dudgeon- wood ;  "  a  dagger 
with  such  a  haudle.  Shakespeare  does  uot 
say,  "  aud  on  the  blade  o'  the  dudgeon 
gouts  of  blood,"  but  "on  the  blade  and 
dudgeon  .  .  ,"  both  blade  and  handle. 

Dud'man  and  Ramhead.  iritcn 
JJudiiian  (Old  liamhcad  meet.  Never. 
Dudman  aud  Ramhead  (now  spelt  Rame- 
head)  are  two  forelands  on  the  Cornish 
coast,  about  twenty  miles  asunder,  {!See 
Nevee.) 

"  JIake  yourself  scarce  !  depart !  vanisli  !  or 
we'U  have  you  suuimoued  before  the  mayor  of 
Hal'gaver,  and  tliat  before  Dudman  aud  llamhead 
meet."— .S'fott ;  Kenilworth,  iv. 

Duds.  Old  clothes,  tattered  gar- 
ments (Gaelic,  diid,  a  rag;  Dutch,  tud ; 
Italian,  tvzzi).  A  dudder  or  dudsman  is 
a  scarecrow,  or  man  of  straw  dressed  in 
cast  off  garments  to  fray  birds ;  also  a 
pedlar  who  sells  duds  or  gown-pieces. 
(Compare  the  Greek  duo,  to  put  on 
[clothes]  ;  Latin,  in.duo,  to  clothe.) 

Dudu.  A  pensive  maiden  of  seven- 
teen, "  who  never  thought  about  herself 
at  all."     {Byron :  Don  Juan,  vi.  vii.) 

Ducn'de  (3  syl.).  A  Sjmnish  goblin 
or  house-spirit.  Cal'deron  has  a  comedy 
called  La  JJania  Ducnda.     ijicc  Faiey.) 

Duen'na  \Lndtj'\.  The  female  of 
don.  Tlie  Sjianish  don  is  derived  from 
the  Latin  doininusz=ia,  lord,  a  master. 
A  duenna  is  the  chief  lady-in-waiting 
on  the  Queen  of  Spain  ;  but  in  common 
parlance  it  moans  a  lady  who  is  half 
companion  and  half  governess,  in  charge 
of  the  younger  female  members  of  a 
nobleman's  or  gentleman's  family  in 
Portugal  or  Sjiain. 

"  Tbere  is  uo  duenua  so  rigidly  prudent  and  in- 
exorably decorous  as  a  superannuated  coquette." 
—  W.  IrviU'j :  Sketch-Buolc  (Spectre  LiUlcijrvum). 

Duer'gar  (2  syl.).  Dwarfs  who  dwell 
in  rocks  and  hills ;  noted  for  t?ieir 
strength,  subtilty,  magical  powers,  and 
skill  in  metallurgy.  They  are  the  jjer- 
sonificatiou  of  the  subterranean  powers 
of  natui-e.  According  to  the  Gotho- 
Germau  myth,  the  duergar  were  first 
maggots  in  Ymii-'s  flesh,  but  afterwards 
assumed  the  likeness  of  men.  The  first 
duergar  was  Modsogn'er,  the  next  Dyrin. 
N.B. — The  Giant  Ymir  is  Chaos.  (<S'ce 
Heldenbuch.) 

Dues'sa  {Double-inbid  or  False-faith). 
Daughter  of  Falsehood  and  Shame,  who 
assumes  divers  disguises  to  beguile  the 
Red  Cross  Knight.  At  one  time  she 
takes  the  name  of  Fidessa,  and  entices 
the  knight  into  the  Palace  of  Pride 
{Lueife'r<i).  The  knight  having  left  the 
palace,  is    overtaken    by    Duessa,    and 


drinks  of  an  enchanted  fountain,  which 
paralyses  him,  in  which  state  he  is  taken 
captive  by  the  giant  Orgoglio.  Prince 
Arthur  slays  the  giant  and  rescues  the 
knight ;  Duessa,  being  stripped  of  her 
gorgeous  disguise,  is  found  to  be  a 
hideous  hag,  and  flees  into  the  wilder- 
ness for  concealment.  She  appears  again 
in  book  ii.  {Spenser:  Faerie  Qnecne, 
book  i.  2-7  ;  v.  y.) 

Dufarge.  Jacques  and  Madame  Du- 
farge  are  the  presiding  genii  of  the 
Faubourg  St.  Antoine,  and  chief  insti- 
gators of  many  of  the  crimes  committed 
by  the  Red  Republicans  in  Dickens's 
2ah'  of  Two  Cities. 

Duffer  {A)  now  means  a  person  easily 
bamboozled,  one  of  slow  wit ;  but 
originally  it  meant  one  who  cheated  or 
bamboozled.  To  duff' =:to  cheat.  Per- 
sons who  sell  inferior  goods  as  "great 
bargains,"  under  the  pretence  of  their 
being  smuggled,  are  duft'ers ;  so  are 
hawkers  generally.  At  the  close  of  the 
eighteenth  century  j)assers  of  bad  money 
were  so  called.  Now  the  word  is  api)lied 
to  persons  taken  in,  and  by  artists  to 
inferior  pictures. 

"  Itobinson  a  tliorou'-rli  duftcr  is." 

AU:atiLi-Ur  Smltk  :  .Skihiih  r  Iili/U. 

Duglas,  the  scene  of  four  Artliuriau 
battles.  It  is  a  river  which  falls  into 
the  Ribble.  Mr.  Whittaker  says,  "six 
cwt.  of  horse-shoes  were  taken  up  from 
a  space  of  ground  near  the  spot  duriug 
the  formation  of  a  canal." 

Duke.  T/ie  Great  Buhe.  The  Duke 
of  Wellington,  called  "  the  Iron  Duke." 
(17(i9-lSo2.) 

Duke  Coombe.  William  Coombe, 
author  of  iJr.  iSi/iitax,  'The  Becd  upon 
Two  Sticks,  etc.,  who  in  the  days  of  his 
prosperity  was  noted  for  the  splendour 
of  his  dress,  the  profusion  of  his  table, 
aud  the  magnificence  of  his  deportment. 
Having  spent  all  his  money  he  turned 
author,  but  passed  the  last  fifteen  years 
of  liis  life  in  the  King's  Bench.  (1743- 
1823.) 
Duke  Ernest.  {See  Ernest.) 
Duke  Humphrey.  ('SVcHumpheey.) 

Duke  Street  (Strand),  so  named 
from  George  Yilliers,  Duke  of  Bucking- 
ham. 

Duke  and  Duchess  in  Bon  Quixote, 
who  play  so  many  tricks  on  the  Knight 
of  the  Woeful  Countenance,  were  Don 
Carlos  do  Borja,  Count  of  Ficallo,  who 
married  Donna  Maria  of  Ar'agou, 
Duchess  of  Villaher'mora,  in  whose  right 


Duke 


388 


Dulia 


the  count  had  extensive  estates  on  the 
banks  of  the  Ebro  ;  among  others  he  had 
a  country  seat  called  Kuena'via,  which 
was  the  place  Cervantes  referred  to. 

Duke  of  Exeter's  Daughter  ( The). 

A  rack  iu  tlie  Tower  of  London,  so 
called  from  a  minister  of  Henry  VI., 
who  sought  to  introduce  it  into  England. 

Duke  or  Darling.  Heads  or  tails  ; 
pitch  and  toss.  When  the  scandals 
about  the  Duke  of  York  and  Mrs. 
Clarke  were  the  common  talk  of  the 
town,  the  street  boys,  instead  of  crying 
Heads  or  tails,  used  to  say  l)uke  or  l)ar- 
liiiff.     {Lord  Colchester  :  Diary,  1861.) 

Duke's.  A  fashionable  theatre  iu 
the  reign  of  Charles  II.  It  was  situate 
in  Portugal  Street,  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields. 
It  was  named  from  its  great  patron, 
James,  Duke  of  York,  afterwards  James 
II.     The  modern  Duke's  theatre. 

Duke's  Walk.  'To  meet  one  in  the 
])uke^s  Walk.  An  invitation  to  fight  a 
duel.  In  the  vicinity  of  Holyrood 
House  is  a  place  called  the  Duke's  Walk, 
from  being  the  favourite  promenade  of 
the  Duke  of  York,  afterwards  James  II., 
during  his  residence  in  Scotland.  This 
walk  was  the  common  rendezvous  for 
settling  affairs  of  honour,  as  the  site  of 
the  British  Museum  was  in  England. 

'•  If  a  gentleman  sliallask  nie  tlicsanioiniestiim, 
I  shall  regard  the  incivility  as  euuivali'iit  to  an 
invitation  to  meet  him  in  the  Duke's  Walk.  '— 
Scott:  Bride  of  Lamiiurmuor,  chap,  xxxiv. 

Dukeries.  A  district  in  Xottiiigham- 
shire,  so  called  from  the  nuinbirdf  ducal 
residences  in  the  vicinity,  imludiiig  Wel- 
beck  Abbey,  Thoresby,  Clumber,  Work- 
sop, Kiveton  Hall,  etc. 

Dulcar'non.  The  horns  of  a  dilemma, 
(or  iSi/llvffisiiiKiii  conni'lmii)  ;  at  my  wits' 
end  ;  a  puzzling  question.  Dulcar'nein 
is  the  Arabic  dhn^lkarneii)  (double- 
horned,  having  two  horns).  Hence  the 
47th  proposition  of  the  First  Book?  of 
Euclid  is  called  the  Dulcarnon,  as  the 
5th  is  the  jjoiis  ashioriim.  Alexander  the 
Great  is  called  Iscander  Dulcarnein,  and 
the  Macedonian  aera  tlie  (era  of  Dnlcar- 
iiein.  Chaucer  uses  the  word  in  Troylas 
and  Crj/seijde,  book  iii.  12(5,  127. 

V  The  horns  of  the  47th  proposition 
are  the  two  squares  which  contain  the 
right  angle. 

To  be  in  D/ilearnon.  To  be  in  a  quan- 
dary, or  on  the  horns  of  a  dilemma. 

To  send  one  to  l)ulearnon.  To  daze 
with  puzzles. 

Dulce  Domum.  The  holiday  song 
of    Winchester    school.      Mr*.   Brandon 


says  it  was  composed  by  a  boy  of  St. 
Mary's  College,  Winchester,  who  was 
confined  for  misconduct  during  the 
Whitsun  holidaj's,  "as  report  says,  tied 
to  a  pillar."  On  the  evening  preceding 
the  Whitsun  holidays,  "  the  master, 
scholars,  and  choristers  of  the  above 
college  walk  in  procession  round  the 
'  jiillar,'  chanting  the  six  stanzas  of  the 
song."  In  the  March  number  of  the 
(ie)illeman''s  Magazine,  1790,  a  transla- 
tion, signed  "J.  R.,"  was  given  of  the 
song  ;  and  Dr.  Milner  thinks  the  original 
is  not  more  than  a  century  old.  It  is 
rather  remarkable  that  the  author  has 
made  "  domiun  "  a  neuter  noun.  {See 
Adeste  Fideles.) 

CIIOUI'S: 
"  Domum,  domum,  dulce  domum  ! 
Domum,  domuiu,  dulce  domum  ; 
Dulce,  dulce,  dulce  domum  I 
Dulce  donuim,  re.sone'nuis." 
Home,  home,  joyous  home  ! 
Home,  home,  joyous  home  ! 
Joyous,  joyous,  joyous  home  ! 
Hnrnih  tor  joyous  hinno  !    E.  C.  B, 

Dulce  est   Desipere  in  Loco.     It 

is  dclightfid  ti)  play  the  fool  occa- 
sionally ;  it  is  nice  to  throw  aside  one's 
dignity  and  relax  at  the  proiier  time. 
(Horace:  4  Ode^,  xii.  28.) 

Dulce  et  Decorum  est  pro  Patria 
Mori  (Latin).  It  is  sweet  and  liecomiiig 
to  die  on  otn  covmtry's  behalf,  or  to  die 
for  one's  country. 

Dul'cimer  (Italian  doleiniello),  ac- 
cording to  Bisliop  {Musical  JJictiouari/, 
p.  4.3),  is  "a  triangular  chest  strung  with 
wires,  which  are  struck  with  a  little  rod 
held  in  each  hand;"  but  the  word 
"symphouia,"  translated  dulcimer  in 
Daniel  iii.  5,  was  a  species  of  bagpipe. 
Fiirst  deduces  it  from  the  Hebrew 
smpn  (a  pipe). 

"The  sound  of  cornet,  flute,  harji,  sackhut, 
]isaliery,  [symphony]  or  dulcimer, audall  kind.s  ot 
music."— Dan.  iii.  5. 

Dulcin'ea.  A  lady  -  love.  Taken 
from  Don  Quixote's  amie  di<  cwnr.  Her 
real  name  was  Aldonza  Lorenzo,  but  the 
knight  dubbed  her  Dulcin'ea  del  Tobo'so. 
"  I  must  ever  have  some  Dulciuea  in  my  head- 
it  harmonises  tlie  soul.''— Sfei'Hc. 

Dul'cinists.  Heretics  who  followed 
the  teaching  of  Dulcin,  who  lived  in  the 
fourteenth  century.  He  said  that  God 
reigned  from  the  beginning  to  the  com- 
ing of  Messiah ;  and  that  Christ  reigned 
from  His  ascension  to  the  fourteenth 
century,  when  He  gave  up  His  dominion 
to  the  Holy  Ghost.  Dulcin  was  burnt  by 
order  of  Poi^e  Clement  IV. 

Duli'a.  An  inferior  degree  of  wor- 
ship or  veneration,  such  as  that  paid  by 


DtiII 


389 


Dummies 


Roman  Catholics  to  saints  and  angels  ; 
Hyper-duli'a  is  a  superior  sort  of  vene- 
ration reserved  for  the  Virgin ;  but  that 
worship  which  is  paid  to  God  alone  is 
called  latri'a.  "Dulia  "  means  that  sort 
of  veneration  which  slaves  pay  to  their 
lords  (Greek,  dviilos,si  slave)  ;  "Latria" 
means  that  sort  of  veneration  which 
mortals  pay  to  the  gods  (Greek,  latrcu'o, 
to  worshiij  the  gods). 

Dull  as  a  Fro.  A  frow  or  fro  is  a 
kind  of  wedge  for  splitting  wood.  It  is 
not  a  sharp-edged  instrument  like  a 
chisel,  but  a  blunt  or  dull  one. 

Dull  as  Ditch-water.  Uninterest- 
ing ;  ditch-water  is  stagnant  and  has  no 
go  in  it. 

Dulness.  King  of  ihihirss.  Colley 
Cibber,  jjoet  laureate  after  Eusdeu. 

"'(tihI   save   kins   C'ililiei'!'   iiHuints    in    every 

note  .... 
So    when   Jiive's   liliick    descended    from   on 

liigh  .... 
Lonil  tliunder  to  the  hottom  shook  the  hoR, 
And  the  hoarse  n.ation  croaked,  'God  save  king 

Log  !'"  Pupe:  Dunriad,  lH)ok  i. 

Dum  Sola  (Latin).  While  single  or 
unmarried. 

Dum  Spiro,  Spero.  While  I  live,  I 
hope ;  or,  While  there's  life,  there's 
hope. 

Hope  while  you  live,  for  wlio  wonld  care  to 

cope 
With  life's  three  foes,  unpanoplled  with  hope  ? 
Hope  against  hope,  while  fed  with  vital  hreatli, 
Hope  be  your  anchor  in  the  hour  of  death. 

A'.  C.  B. 

Dum  Vivimus,  Vivamus  (Latin). 
While  we  live,  let  us  enjoy  life.  The 
motto  of  Dr.  Doddridge's  coat  of  anns, 
which  he  converted  into  the  subjoined 
epigram — 

"  '  Live,  while  you  live,'  the  epicure  would  say, 
'  And  seize  the  pleasures  of  the  pre.sent  ibiy.' 
'  Live,  while  you  live,'  the  sacred  preacher  cries, 
'  And  give  to  God  each  moment  as  it  Hies.' 
Lonl,  in  mil  views  U't  each  united  he  ; 
1  live  in  pleasure,  when  I  live  to  thee.'' 

Du'maclius.  The  impenitent  thief, 
called  Dysnius  in  the  apocryphal  Gospel 
of  Nicodemus.  In  Longfellow's  (Joldvn 
Legend  Dumachus  and  Titus  were  two 
of  a  band  of  robbers  who  attacked  Joseph 
in  his  flight  into  Egyjit.  Titus  said, ' '  Let 
these  good  people  go  iu  jieace,"  but 
Dumachus  replied,  "  First  let  them  pay 
for  their  release."  Upon  this  Titus  gave 
his  fellow-robber  forty  groats,  and  the 
infiint  Jesus  said — • 

"  When  thirty  years  shall  have  gone  by, 
I  at  Jerusalem  shall  die  .... 

On  the  accurseil  tree. 
Then  on  my  litrlit  and  mv  left  side, 
These  thieves  shall  both  be  crncitled  ; 
And  Titus  tlienceforth  shall  abide 
In  Paradise  with  me." 

'the  Miracle  Play,  iii. 


Dumb-barge  (A).  A  barge  without 
sails,  used  for  a  pier,  and  not  for  convey- 
ing merchandise  up  and  down  a  river. 

Dumb-bell  Nebula  {T/w).  A  still 
condensing  mass ;  so  called  from  being 
of  the  shape  of  a  dumb-bell. 

Dumb-bells.  A  con-uption  of  Dum- 
pels  or  Dumpies,  the  same  word  as  Dum- 
plings, and  meaning  heavy  (weights). 
(German  and  Danish,  d/inuii,  heavy, 
dull,  insipid  ;  d/iiupHi/g,  a  heavy,  insipid 
pudding  ;  dumps,  heavy,  stupid  morose- 
ness.)     {See  Dltmp.) 

Dumb-bells.  In  New  College,  Ox- 
ford, there  still  is  an  apparatus  for 
developing  the  muscles  similar  to  that 
which  sets  church-bells  in  motion.  It 
consists  of  a  fly-wheel  with  a  weight 
attached,  and  the  gymnast  is  carried  by 
it  vi\)  and  down  to  bring  his  muscles  into 
play.  The  present  apparatus  was  sub- 
stituted for  it,  and  answers  a  similar 
purpose,  though  the  name  is  greatly 
obscured. 

Dumb-bidding.  A  sale  by  auction 
effected  thus  :  Tlie  owner  fixes  an  upset- 
price  on  an  article,  writes  it  on  a  slip  of 
paper,  and  covers  the  slip  up.  The 
article  is  then  offered  to  the  bidders,  and 
withdrawn  unless  some  bid  reaches  the 
upset  price. 

Dumb-co'W  {To).  To  brow-beat ;  to 
cow.     (Anglo-Indian.) 

Dumb  Crambo.    (&eCEAMBO.) 

Dumb  Dog  {A).     One  who  remains 

silent  when  he  ought  to  sjieak. 

Dumb  Ox  of  Cologne  ( The) .  Thomas 
Aquinas  (l'2'24-ri74),  known  afterwards 
as  ''  the  Angelic  Doctor  "  or  "  Angel  of 
the  Schools."  Albertus  Magnus,  the 
tutor  of  the  "dumb  o.k,"  said  of  him : 
' '  The  dumb  ox  will  one  day  fill  the 
world  with  his  lowing."  He  was  born 
at  Naples,  but  was  a  student  in  the 
monastery  of  Cologne. 

Dumb-'waiter.  A  piece  of  dining- 
room  furniture,  fitted  with  shelves,  to 
hold  glasses,  dishes,  and  plate.  So 
called  because  it  answers  all  the  pur- 
poses of  a  waiter,  and  is  not  possessed 
of  an  insolent  tongue  ;  a  lift  for  carry- 
ing food  from  a  kitchen  to  the  dining- 
room,  etc. 

Dum'my.  In  three-handed  whist  the 
exposed  hand  is  called  dummy. 

Dum'mies  (2  syl.).  Empty  bottles 
or  drawers  iu  a  tlruggist'sshop  ;  wooden 
heads  in  a  hairdresser's  shop ;  lay  figures 


Dump 


390 


Dunciad 


iu  a  tailor's  shop  ;  persons  on  the  stage 
who  appear  before  the  hghts,  but  have 
nothing  to  say.  These  all  are  dumb, 
actually  or  figuratively. 

Dump.  A  Brazilian  copper  coin, 
worth  about  2hd.  ;  also  a  round  flat 
lump  of  lead  used  on  board  ship  for 
playing  quoits  and  chuck-penny.  Hence 
flunipy  or  ihnnptij  (squat  or  small).  An 
egg  is  called  a  hnniptii-dumptij  in  the 
nursery  verses  beginning  with  "  Humjjty 
Dumpty  sat  on  a  wall,"  etc. 

"  Deatli  saw  two  players  iilayins  cards, 
-  Hut.  tlie  game  was  not  worth  a  diinip." 

lUmd  :  Death's  Humble,  stanza  II. 

Dumps.  To  be  in,  the  dumps.  Out 
of  spirits  ;  iu  the  "  sullens."  According 
to  etymological  fable,  it  is  derived  from 
Dumops,  King  of  Egypt,  who  built  a 
l)yramid  and  died  of  melauclioly.  Gay's 
Third  Pastoral  is  Ifcdiusdai/,  or  the 
Jj/niips.     (German,  diitnm,  stupid,  dull.) 

"Wliy,  how  now,  daughter  Katharine?  in  your 
dumps  ?  "—Shakespeare  :  Turning  of  the  Shrew, 
ii.  1. 

Dun.  One  who  importunes  for  paj'- 
ment  of  a  bill  (Anglo-Saxon,  ditixoi,  to 
din  or  clamour).  The  ti'adition  is  tliat 
it  refers  to  Joe  Dun,  a  famous  bailiff  of 
Lincoln  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VII.  The 
British  Apollo  says  he  Avas  so  active 
and  dexterous  in  collecting  bad  debts 
that  when  anyone  became  "  slow  to 
pay  "  the  neighbours  used  to  say  to  the 
creditoi-s,  "Duu  him"  (send  Dun  after 
him). 

"An  rniversiiie  dunne  ....  is  an  inferior 
crrditor  of  some  Ic-u  shilliugs  or  downewards, 
contracted  for  liorsc-hiro,  or  perchance  drinke, 
too  wcaki-  to  lie  put  in  suite."— iii>7ioi>  Karle : 
Jll irrucoKmiiijnifih ill  (liiol-lii'X)). 

Sr/iiire  Dm/.  The  hangmair  between 
Richard  Brandin  and  Jack  Ketch. 

"  And  presently  a  lialliT  u-ot, 
JIadc  of  til,'  liesi  sirouL'  hempen  leer; 
And,  ere  a  rat  could  lick  his  ear, 
Had  tii'd  hini  up  with  as  much  art 
As  Dun  himself  could  do  for  's  heart." 
Cutloii :  Virfjil  Travestied,  hook  iv. 

Dun  Cow.  The  dun  cow  of  Duns- 
more  heath  was  a  savage  beast  slain  by 
Sir  Guy,  Earl  of  Warwick.  A  huge 
tusk,  probably  that  of  an  elephant,  is 
still  shown  at  Harwich  Castle  as  one  of 
the  horns  of  the  dun-cow.     (Sec  Gtjy.) 

The  fable  is  that  this  cow  belonged  to 
a  giant,  and  was  kept  on  Mitchell  Fold 
(middle  fold),  Shropshire.  Its  milk  was 
inexhaustible ;  but  one  day  an  old  woman 
who  had  filled  her  pail,  wanted  to  fiU 
her  sieve  also.  This  so  enraged  the  cow, 
that  she  broke  loose  from  the  fold  and 
wandered  to  Dunsmore  heath,  where  she 
was  slain  by  Guy  of  Warwick. 

*.*  Isaac  Taylor,   in    his    Words  and 


Fhtces  (p.  269),  says  the  dun  cow  is  a 
coiTuptiou  of  the  Jhna  Gan  or  Danish 
settlement  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Warwick.  Gau,  iu  Genntm,  means 
region,  country.  If  this  explanation  ia 
correct,  the  great  achievement  of  Guy 
was  a  victory  over  the  Danes,  and 
taking  from  them  their  settlement  near 
Warwick. 

Dun  in  the  Mire.  To  draw  T>iin  out 
of  the  iii'ire.  To  lend  a  lielping  hand 
to  one  in  distress.  The  allusion  is  to 
an  English  game,  explained  by  Mr. 
Gifi'ord  m  his  edition  of  Jloi  Joiisoii, 
vii.  '2S;3.  A  log  of  wood  is  brought  into 
a  room.  The  log,  called  Dun,  is  sup- 
posed to  have  fallen  into  the  mire,  and 
the  players  are  to  judl  liim  out.  Every 
player  does  all  he  can  to  obstruct  the 
others,  and  its  often  as  possible  the  log 
is  made  to  ftill  on  someone's  toes.  Con- 
stant allusion  is  made  to  this  game. 

".sires,  what  ?  Dun  is  in  the  niirc."— C/zniirer  ; 
rrnldiiite  tn  Mainiciplci  Tale. 

"  if  thouart  dun.  wi''ll  draw  thee  from  the  mire." 
Shal.ispeKrc:  Hnmin  anil  .liiliet,  i.  4. 
"  Well  done,  my  masters,  lend  s  your  h.ands  ; 
Draw  Dun  out  <'f  the  ditch. 
Dr.iw,  pull,  lieljie  .-ill.    So,  so  ;  well  done." 
Diichessc  ofSiiffulht  (1(C1). 

Dunce.  A  dolt  ;  a  stupid  person. 
The  word  is  taken  from  Ditns  Scotus, 
the  letirned  schoolman  and  great  sup- 
porter of  the  immaculate  conception. 
His  followers  were  called  Dunsers.  Tyn- 
dal  s.-iys,  when  they  saw  that  their  hair- 
fsplitling  divinity  was  giving  way  to 
modern  theology,  "  the  old  barking  curs 
raged  iu  every  pulpit  "  against  the 
classics  and  new  notions,  so  that  the 
name  indicated  an  opponent  to  progress, 
to  learning,  and  hence  a  dunce. 

"  He  knew  whal's  what, and  that's  as  high 
As  metaphysic  wit  cm  fly  .... 
A  second  Thomas,  or  at  inici^ 
To  name  them  all,  another  Dunse." 

ISutler:  Hitdihras,  i.  1. 

Dnnee.     {See  Abdeeitan,  Akcadian, 

BCEOTIAN.) 

Dun'ciad.  The  dunce-epic,  a  satire 
by  Alexander  Pope.  Eusden,  the  ^toet 
laureate,  being  dead,  the  goddess  of 
Dulness  elects  Colley  Cibber  to  be  his 
successor.  The  installation  is  celebrated 
by  games,  the  most  important  being  the 
proposal  to  read,  without  sleeping,  two 
voluminous  works — one  in  verse  and  the 
other  in  j^rose  ;  as  everyone  falls  asleep, 
the  games  come  to  an  end.  King  Cibber 
is  now  taken  to  the  temple  of  Dulness, 
and  is  lulled  to  sleep  on  the  lap  of  the 
goddess ;  and,  during  his  slumber,  sees  in 
a  vision  the  past,  present,  and  future 
triumphs  of  the  empire.     Finally,  the 


Dunderhead 


391 


Dunstan 


goddess,  having  destroyed  order  and 
science,  establishes  her  kingdom  ou  a 
firm  basis  ;  and,  having  given  directions 
to  her  several  agents  to  prevent  thought 
and  keep  people  to  foolish  and  trifling 
pursuits,  Night  and  Chaos  are  restored, 
and  the  poem  ends.    {See  Dennis.) 

Dun'dertaead.  A  blockhead,  or, 
rather,  a  muddle-headed  person.  Duu- 
der  is  the  lees  or  dregs  of  wine,  etc.  ; 
more  correctly,  the  overflow  of  fer- 
mented liquors  (yeast).  (Spanish,  re- 
diiiular,  to  overflow  or  froth  over.) 

"  The  use  of  Diiiuler  in  the  making  of  mm 
answers  tlie  iiurpose  of  yeast  in  the  fermentation 
of  Hour."— £'(/(iY()'<(s ;  West  Indies. 

Dundrea'ry  (Lord)  (3  syl.).  Tlie 
impersonation  of  a  good-natured,  indo- 
lent, blundering,  emj)ty-headcd  swell. 
The  chief  character  in  Tom  Taylor's 
dramatic  piece  called  0/ir  Aiiurican 
Conxhi.  Mr.  Sothern  created  the  cha- 
racter of  Lord  Dundreary  by  the  power 
of  his  conception  and  the  genius  of  his 
acting.     {.See  Beother  Sam.) 

Dungaree.  A  coarse  blue  cloth  worn 
by  sailors ;  coarse  and  vulgar.  Dun- 
garee is  the  Wapi^ing  of  Bombay. 

Dunghill!    Coward!    Villain!    This 
is  a  cockpit  phrase ;   all  cocks,  except 
gamecocks,  being  called  dunghills. 
"Out,  dunghill  !  dar'st  thou  Ijrave  a  uolilenian  ?" 
Slidkespcare  :  Kiiiy  John,  iv.  :i. 

That  is,  Dare  you,  a  dunghill  cock,  brave 
a  thoroughbred  gamecock  i' 

Dunghill.  TItnu  hast  if,  ad  diuujhUl, 
at  tin/  Jiiujcrs'  ends.  To  this  Holofernes 
replies  :  "  Oh,  I  smell  false  Latin  ; 
'  dunghill  '  for  '  mif/iieiii.^  "  {Shake- 
fip:'arc :  Lovers  Lahoitr''s  Lost,  v.  1.) 

Dunkers.     {See  Tunkers.) 

Dunmow.  2'o  eat  Duniiiow  bacon. 
To  live  in  conjugal  amity,  without  even 
wishing  the  marriage  knot  to  be  less 
firmly  tied.  The  allusion  is  to  the  in- 
stitution of  Robert  Fitzwaltor.  Be- 
tween 1244  and  1772  eight  claimants 
have  been  admitted  to  eat  the  flitch. 
Their  names  merit  immortality  : 

1445.  Richard  Wright,  labourer,  Bau- 
burgh,  near  Norwich. 

14(57.  Steven  Samuel,  of  Little  Ays- 
ton,  Essex. 

1.510.  Thomas  Ley,  fuller,  Coggeshall, 
Essex. 

1701.  William  and  Jane  Parsley, 
butcher,  Much-Easton,  Essex.  Same 
year,  John  and  Ann  Reynolds,  Hatfield 
Regis. 

17-51.  Thomas  Shakeshaft,  wool- 
comber,  Weathersfield,  Esses. 


1763.     Karnes  unknown  !  ! 
1772.     John  and  Susan  Gilder,  Tar- 
ling,  Essex. 

The  attemjit  to  revive  this  "  iiremium 
for  humbug"  is  a  mere  "get-up"  for 
the  benefit  of  the  town. 

"  Ah,  madam  !  cease  to  he  mistaken  ;  ; 

Few  married  fowl  peck  Dunmow  haoon." 
Prior :  Turtle  and  Uparrow,  i'33. 

Dunmow  Flitch.  The  oath  adminis- 
tered was  in  the  doggerel  subjoined  : 

"  Yon  shall  swear, by  Ihecusldiiint  our  cunfessioii. 
That  you  never  niuile  any  luiiiiial  tiansyressiou 
Since  you  were  maiiicd  man  and  wife, 
By  household  hrawls  or  contentious  strife  ; 
Or,  since  the  parish  clerk  said  ^  Anicn,' 
Wished  yourseh  es  uiiniarried  again  ; 
Or,  in  a  twclvenioiit  h  and  a  day, 
Repented  nut  in  tlmim-ht  auv  way. 
If  to  thise  terms,  wit  hunt  all  fear. 
Of  your  I'wii  ac.or.l  yon  will  freely  swear, 
A  ganinioii  of  liacon  >  on  shtill  receive, 
And  hear  it  hence  with  (nir  good  leave. 
For  tills  is  our  custom  at  Dunmow  well  known— 
The  sport  is  ours,  hut  the  hacou  your  own." 

Duns  Scotus.  A  schoolman,  called 
Duns  from  Dunce  in  Berwickshire. 
(1205—1308.)  Not  John  Scotus,  Erigena, 
the  schoolman,  who  died  a.d.  875. 

Dun'stable.  Bailey,  as  if  he  actu- 
ally believed  it,  gives  the  etymology  of 
this  word  JJmts''  stable ;  adding  Duns  or 
"Dunns  was  a  robber  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  I.,  who  made  it  dangerous  for 
travellers  to  pass  that  way."  {Danes  or 
dans  tavell,  our  table— i.e.  the  table-land 
or  flat  of  the  hills.) 

Downright  Danstable.  {Sec  Down- 
right.) 

I'laiii  as  tlie  road  to  Dunstable  ;  or,  as 
ShakesjDeare  says,  "Plain  as  way  to 
parish  church."  The  road  leading  to 
Dunstable  is  the  confluence  of  many 
leading  to  London,  but  the  play  is  ou 
the  word  dunce. 

Dunstan  [St.).  Patron  saint  of  gold- 
smiths, being  himself  a  noted  worker  in 
gold.  He  is  represented  generally  in 
pontifical  robes,  but  carrying  a  pair  of 
pincers  in  his  right  hand.  The  pon- 
tificals refer  to  his  office  as  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  and  the  pincers  to  the 
legend  of  his  holding  the  Devil  by  the 
nose  till  he  promised  never  to  tempt 
him  again. 

St.  Dunstan  and  the  deril.  Dunstan 
was  a  painter,  jeweller,  and  blacksmith. 
Being  expelled  from  court,  he  built  a 
cell  near  Glastonbury  church,  and  there 
he  worked  at  his  handicrafts.  It  was  in 
this  cell  that  tradition  says  the  Devil 
had  a  gossi^j  with  the  saint  through  the 
lattice  window.  Dunstan  went  on  talk- 
ing till  his  tongs  were  red  hot,  when  he 
tm-ned  round  suddenly  and  caught  his 
Satanic  Majesty  by  the  nose.    One  can 


Duodecimo 


392 


Bust 


trace  in  this  legend  the  notion  that  all 
knowledge  belonged  to  the  Black  Art ; 
that  the  "  saints  "  are  always  more  than 
conquerors  over  the  spiiits  of  evil ;  and 
the  singular  cunning  which  oui'  fore- 
fathers so  deUghted  to  honour. 

Duodec'imo.  A  book  whose  sheets 
are  folded  into  twelve  leaves  each.  This 
word,  which  differs  from  both  the  Italian 
and  French,  is  from  the  Latin  diiodccim 
(twelve).  It  is  now  called  twelvemo, 
from  the  contraction  12mo.  The  teiTu 
is  still  ajjiilied  to  books  that  are  the  same 
size  as  the  old  duodecimo,  irrespective  of 
the  number  of  leaves  into  which  the 
sheet  is  folded. 

vl  )i(((u  in  diwdcc'iiiio  is  a  dwarf.  {Sic 
Decimo.  ) 

Duomo  (T/w).     The  cathedral. 

"  Tho  siiiii'f'iiie  executive  (if  Florence  suspeniled 
Sav(iii;inil;i  ficini  i>reacLiirig  in  the  •Uuuiiio." — 
/■fymoiids :  liouiissimce  in  Italy. 

Dup  is  do  tip.  Thus  Ophelia  says,  in 
one  of  her  snatches,  he  "  dupt  the 
chamber  door,"  i.e.  did  up  or  pushed 
up  the  latch,  in  order  to  open  the  door, 
that  he  might  "  let  in  the  maid  "  {llam- 
let,  iv.  1).  A  portcullis  and  some  other 
doors  were  lifted  up  or  dupped. 

"  Iclie  weene  the  imrteis  are  drunk.  Will  they 
not  ilup  tbe  gate  to-day."'— £difU)d».-  Damon  and 
ntltias  (.loll). 

Dupes.    {Sec  Day  of  the  Dupes.) 

Duranda'na  or  Durin'dana.  Or- 
lando's sword,  given  him  by  his  cousin 
Malagi'gi.  It  once  belonged  to  Hector, 
and  was  made  by  the  fairies.  It  could 
cleave  the  Pyrenees  at  a  blow.  N.B. — 
In  French  romance  Orlando  is  called 
Moknid,  Malagigi  Mawjis,  and  the  sword 
durandal  or  dunitdal.     (iSce  Swoed.) 

"  Nor  iilaited  sLield,  nor  tempered  casque  defends, 
Where  Duriuilana's  trenchant  edge  descends." 
Boole:  Orlando  Furioso,  book  v. 

Du'randar'te.  A  knight  who  fell  at 
Eoncesvalles,  cousin  to  Moutesi'nos.  The 
tale  says  he  loved  Belerma,  whom  he 
served  seven  years,  at  the  expiration  of 
which  time  he  was  slain.  In  his  last 
breath  he  told  Montesi'nos  to  take  his 
heart  and  give  it  to  Belerma,  He  is 
described  by  Lewis  as 

"  Sweet  in  manners,  fair  in  favour, 
Mild  in  temper,  fierce  in  fight." 

Durante. 

Di(raittv  bow  phjcito  (Latin).  During 
pleasure. 

Durante  minorc  mtatc  (Latin).  During 
minority. 

pnrante  viduitate  (Latin).  Duiing 
widowhood. 

Durante  vita  (Latin).     For  life. 


Durbar  (Indian  word).    A  levee. 
"  Durhars  wliich  might  rival  in  splendour  of 
colour  and  jewelled  bravery  the  glories  of  the 
court  of  Byzantium."— ^cCart/ij/;  England  under 
Gladstone,  chap.  iv.  p.  Mi. 

Dur'den  {Dame).  A  notiible  house- 
wife. Dame  Durden,  of  the  famous 
English  song,  kept  five  serving  gu-ls  to 
carry  the  milking  pails,  and  also  kept 
five  ser\dng  men  to  use  the  spade  and 
flail.    The  five  men  loved  the  five  maids. 

"  'Twas  Moll  and  Bet,  and  Doll  and  Kale,  and 
Dorothy  Dragglelail  : 
Anil   .John   and   Dick,  and   .Toe  and  Jack,  and 
Humphrey  with  his  flail."  Anon. 

Diirer  {Albert),  of  Niirnberg,  called 
by  his  countrymen  ' '  the  prince  of 
artists,"  and  by  many  the  "Chaucer  of 
painting."     (1471-1.528.) 

V  Diirer's  portraits  of  Charlemagne 
and  other  emperors  are  unrivalled  ;  but 
Lucas  Kranach's  (147'2-1.5r)3)  portraits 
of  Luther  and  otlier  reformers  are  said 
to  run  them  very  close  in  merit. 

Duresley.  You  are  a  man  of  Dures- 
Ii  //,  i.e.  a  great  liar  and  cheat.  Dures- 
ley is  a  market-town  in  Gloucestershire, 
famous  for  its  broadcloth  manufactory. 
Now  called  Dursley.  (See  fuller : 
If'orthirs.)  The  word  "cabbage,"  con- 
nected with  tailors,  seems  to  coufinn 
the  notion  that  our  forefathers  had  no 
very  high  opinion  of  their  lionesty. 

Dur'ham  Book.  By  Eadf rid,  Bishop 
of  Lindisfarne,  who  died  in  7'21,  one  of 
the  most  splendid  examples  of  illumina- 
tion in  the  world. 

Durbam  Mustard.  So  called  from 
the  residence  of  Mrs.  Clements,  who  first 
conceived  the  idea  of  grinding  mustard 
in  a  mill,  instead  of  pounding  it  in  a 
mortar.  George  I.  stamped  it  with  his 
approval,  hence  the  pots  labelled  "  Dur- 
ham mustard  "  bear  the  ro3'al  initials 
in  a  medallion. 

Dus  or  Deuce.  The  chief  god  of  the 
Brigau'tes,  one  of  whose  altars,  bearing 
an  inscription,  was  discovered  at  Gret- 
land.     {Camden  :  Britannia.) 

Du'siens.  The  name  given  by  the 
Gauls  to  those  demons  that  produce 
nightmares. 

'•Da?mones  quos  'duscios'  Galli  nuncupant."— 
St.  Aiuiustinc :  De  Civitute  Dei,  chap,  xxiii. 

Dust.  Money ;  so  called  because  it 
is  made  of  gold-dust.  It  is  said  that  Dean 
Swift  took  for  the  text  of  a  charity  ser- 
mon, "He who  giveth  to  the  poor,  lend- 
eth  to  the  Lord."  Having  thrice  repeated 
his  text,  he  added,  ' '  Now,  brethren,  if 
you  like  the  security,  down  with  your 
dust."    That  ended  his  sennon. 


Dustman 


393 


Dutch  School 


Dunt.  The  wild  Irish  peasantry  believe 
tliat  dust  is  raised  on  roads  by  fairies  on 
a  journey,  and  raise  their  hats  to  it, 
saying,  "God  speed  you,  gentlemen." 
Tlie  Ai'abs  think  the  whirlwind  and 
waterspout  are  caused  Ijy  evil  jinns. 

Pll  dust  your  jacket  for  you.  Give  you 
a  good  beating.  The  allusion  is  to 
dusting  carpets,  etc.,  by  beating  tliem 
with  a  stick. 

'To  ruixe  a  dust,  To  kick  up  a  dust.  To 
make  a  commotion  or  disturbance. 

To  throw  dust  in  one^s  eyes.  To  mislead. 
The  allusion  is  to  a  Mahometan  practice 
of  casting  dust  into  the  air  for  the  sake 
of  "confounding"  the  enemies  of  the 
faith.  Tliis  was  done  by  Mahomet  on 
two  or  three  occasions,  as  in  the  battle 
of  Honein  ;  and  the  Koran  refers  to  it 
when  it  says,  "  Neither  didst  thou,  O 
Mahomet,  cast  dust  into  their  eyes  ;  but 
it  was  God  who  confounded  them."  But 
the  following  incident  will  suffice  :  One 
day  the  Koreishites  surrounded  the  house 
of  Mahomet,  resolved  to  murder  him. 
They  peejied  through  the  crevice  of  his 
chamber-door,  and  saw  him  lying  asleep. 
Just  at  this  moment  his  son-in-law  Ali 
opened  the  door  silently  and  threw  into 
the  air  a  handful  of  dust.  Immediately 
the  conspirators  were  confounded.  They 
mistook  Ali  for  Maliomet,  and  Mahomet 
for  Ali ;  allowed  the  prophet  to  walk 
through  their  midst  uninjured,  and  laid 
hands  on  Ali.  No  sooner  was  Mahomet 
safe,  than  their  eyes  were  opened,  and 
they  saw  their  mistake. 

"  When  tlie  Eiii-'lisli  king  pursued  the  Iniaiim 
whci  had  stolen  tlie  daii^'hterof  Allali,  Allah  threw 
dust  ill  his  eyes  tn  check  his  \mvs\m."—l.igind  at 
Gori  (resiiectiii!,'  tlie  lieauty.uf  the  Genrj-'iaiis). 

Dustman  has  arrived  {The),  or 
"The  sandman  is  about."  It  is  bed- 
time, for  the  children  rub  their  eyes,  as 
if  dust  or  sand  was  in  them. 

Dusty,  irell,  it  is  none  so  dusty,  or 
Xot  so  dusty.  I  don't  call  it  bad  ;  rather 
smart.  Here  d»sty  is  the  opposite  of 
tieat,  and  neat  =  spruce.  "  None  so 
dusty "  or  "  Not  so  dusty  "  means 
therefore,  Kot  so  nnspriice,  or  rather 
smart. 

Dusty-foot.       (.SVrPlE  POL'DEE.) 

Dutch.  'The  Butch  have  taken  Hol- 
land. A  quiz  when  anyone  tells  what 
is  well  known  as  a  piece  of  wonderful 
news.  Similar  to  Queen  Bess  (or  Queen 
Anne)  is  dead  ;  the  Ark  rested  on  Mount 
Ararat ;  etc. 

Dutch  Auction.  An  "auction"  in 
which  the  bidders  decrease  their  bids  till 
they  come  to  the  minimum  price.    Dutch 


gold  is  no  gold  at  all ;  Dutch  courage  is 
no  real  courage ;  Dutch  concert  is  no 
music  at  all,  but  mere  hubbub;  and 
Dutch  auction  is  no  auction,  or  increase 
of  bets,  but  quite  the  contrary. 

Dutch  Clocks,  i.e.  German  clocks, 
chiefly  made  in  the  Black  Forest.  As 
many  as  180,000  are  exported  annually 
from  Fribui-g.  (Gennan,  Detitsch,  Ger- 
man.) 

"  A  woman,  that  is  like  a  Gennan  clock. 
Still  a-reiiairing,  ever  out  of  frame, 
And  never  going  aright." 

lihakespeure :  Love's  Labour's  Lost,  iii.  1. 

Dutch  Comfort.  'Tis  a  comfort  it 
was  no  Avorse.  The  comfort  derivable 
from  the  consideration  that  how  bad 
soever  the  evil  which  has  befallen  you, 
a  worse  e\il  is  at  least  conceivable. 

Dutch  Concert.  A  great  noise  and 
uproar,  like  that  made  by  a  party  of 
Dutchmen  in  sundry  stages  of  into.xica- 
tion,  some  singing,  others  quarrelling, 
siJeechifying,  wrangling,  and  so  on. 

Dutch  Courage.  The  courage  ex- 
cited by  drink  ;  jjot  valour. 

'•  In  the  Dutch  wars  (in  the  time  of  Charles  II.\ 
....  the  (-ii)tain  of  the  HoUamUr  man-of-war, 
when  ahiiut  to  engai-'e  with  our  ships,  usiiallv  set. 
....  a  lioi-'shrad  of  l.raiidv  al. roach  l.ef.,re  the 
mast,  and  I. id  tlie  men  drink  ....  andourmeu 
felt  the  force  of  the  hraiidy  to  their  cost."— Au<e« 
and  (jiuriLS  (Oct.  l.'.,  l.-iyi',  ii.  SiM). 

Dutch  Gleek.  Tippling.  Gleek  is 
a  game,  and  the  phrase  means  the  game 
loved  by  Dutchmen  is  drinking. 

"Xor  could  he  partaker  of  any  of  tiic  good 
clieer  exceiit  it  were  the  linuid  part  of  it,  which 
they  call  'Dutch  Gleek.'  "—Gai/ton. 

Dutch  Gold.  Deutsche  or  Gennan 
gold.  An  alloy  of  copper  and  zinc,  in- 
vented by  Prijice  Rupert  of  Bavaria. 

Dutch  Nightingales.  Frogs.  Simi- 
larly, Camtjridge.shire  nightingales  ; 
Liege  nightingales,  etc. 

Dutch  School  of  painting  is  a  sort 
of  "  pre-Raphaelite  "  exactness  of  detail 
without  selection.  It  is,  in  fact,  photo- 
gi-ai)liing  exactly  what  appears  before 
the  artist,  as  faithfully  as  his  art  will 
allow.  The  subjects  are  generally  the 
lower  classes  of  soci.al  life,  as  pothouse 
scenes,  drunken  orgies,  street  groups, 
Dutch  boors,  etc.,  with  landscapes  and 
still-life.  The  greatest  of  the  Dutch 
masters  are  :  for  portraits,  Rembrandt, 
Bol,  Flinck,  Hals,  and  Vanderhelst ;  for 
Conversation  pieces,  Gerhard  Douw,  Ter- 
burg,  Metzu,  Mieris,  and  Netscher ;  for 
loiv  life,  Ostade,  Brower,  and  Jan  Steen  ; 
for  landscapes,  Ruysdael,  Hobbema, 
Cuyp,  Vandemeer,  Berchem,  and  A. 
Both ;    for  battle   scenes,   Wouvermans 


Dutch.  Toys 


394 


Dwarfs 


and  Huclitcubin-ff ;  for  inari/ic  pieces, 
Vandevelde  and  Bakhuizeu ;  for  6Y(7/- 
life  and  fotcerft,  Kalf,  A.  Van  Utrecht, 
Van  Iluysuni,  and  De  Heem. 

Dutch  Toys,  chiefly  made  in  Mein- 
inj^en,  part  of  the  duchy  of  Coburg- 
Gotlia.     (Dutch,  i.e.  DenLseli,  German.) 

Dutch  Uncle.  /  nill  talk  to  you  like 
a  liideJi  uncle.  Will  rejorove  you 
smartly.  Uncle  is  the  Latin  notion  of 
pttt'ruHs,  "  an  uncle,"  "  severe  guar- 
dian," or  "stern  castigator."  Hence 
Horace,  3  Oil.  xii.  3,  ^'-  Metnentes  pat  nice 
rerbera  lii/f/ate"  (di-eading  the  castigations 
of  an  micie's  tongue)  ;  and  2  >Sat.  iii.  88, 
"A>  sis  patriuis  iiii/n  "  (Don't  come  the 
uncle  over  me). 

Dutchman.  /';»  a  Dalehinan  if  I 
do.  A  strong  refusal.  During  the  rivalry 
between  England  and  Holland,  the  word 
Dutch  was  synonymous  with  all  that 
was  false  and  hateful,  and  when  a  man 
said,  "I  would  rather  be  a  Dutchman 
than  do  what  you  ask  mo,"  he  used  the 
strongest  tern'i  of  refusal  that  words 
could  express. 

If  nut,  I'm  a  Dutchman,  means,  I  will 
do  it  or  I  will  call  myself  a  Dutclunan. 

Well,  I'm  a  Dutelnnan  !  An  exclama- 
tion of  strong  incredulity. 

Duty  means  what  is  due  or  owing,  a 
debt  which  should  be  paid.  Thus  obe- 
dience is  the  debt  of  citizens  to  rulers 
for  protection,  and  service  is  the  debt  of 
persons  employed  for  wages  received. 

"  Sliictly  considered,  all  duty  isowed  oiiKinally 
to  (iod  Diiiv  ;  but  .  .  .  duties  lo  (Jod  may  i^e  dis- 
ti'ilniled  . ".  .  into  duties  towards  self,  towards 
uianliood,  and  to\vards(iod."— 6')rj/0)i/ ;  Cliristian 
Jilliics,  pari  ii.  division  i.  p.  172. 

Duum'virs  (3  syl.)  or  D/nnnilrl. 
Certain  liomau  officers  who  were  ap- 
pointed in  iiairs,  like  our  London  shcriifs. 
The  chief  were  the  two  officers  who  had 
charge  of  the  Sibjdline  books,  the  two 
who  had  the  supervision  of  the  muni- 
cipal cities,  and  the  two  who  were 
charged  with  naval  matters. 

Dwarf  (T/ic).  Richard  Gibson, 
painter  (lGlo-16'JO),  a  page  of  the  back- 
stairs in  the  court  of  Charles  I.  He 
married  Anne  Shepherd,  a  dwarf  also, 
and  the  King  honourecl  the  wedding 
with  his  ]n-esence.  Each  measured 
three  feet  ten  inches. 

"  Desiffu  or  chance  makes  others  wive. 
But  Nature  did  this  match  contrive." 

Waller. 

The  Slack  Dicarf.  A  fairy  of  the 
most  malignant  character ;  a  genuine 
northern  Duergar,  and  once  held  by  the 
dalesmen  of  the  border  as  the  author  of 


all  the  mischief  that  befell  their  flocks 
and  herds.  Sir  Walter  Scott  has  a  novel 
so  called,  in  which  the  "black  dwarf" 
is  introttuced  under  the  aliases  of  Sir 
Edwai'd  Mauley ;  Elshauder,  the  re- 
cluse ;  Cannie  Elshie ;  and  the  Wi.se 
Weight  of  Mucklestane  Moor. 

Dwarf  Alberich  (in  the  Nthehonjcn 
Lied)  is  the  guardian  of  the  famous 
"hoard"  won  by  Siegfried  from  the 
Nibelungs.  The  dwarf  is  twice  van- 
quished by  the  hero,  who  gets  possession 
of  his  Tarn-kappc  (cloak  of  invisibility). 
{See  ElbeRICII.) 

Dwarf  Peter  {das  Peter  Manche/i). 
An  allegorical  romance  by  Ludwig'J'ieck. 
The  dwarf  is  a  castle  spectre  that  ad- 
vises and  aids  the  family ;  but  all  his 
advice  turns  out  evil,  and  all  his  aid 
productive  of  trouble.  The  dwarf  re- 
presents that  corrupt  part  of  hinnau 
nature  called  by  St.  Paul  the  "law  in 
our  members  which  wars  against  the  law 
of  our  minds,  and  brings  us  into  cap- 
tivitj'  to  the  law  of  sin." 

Dwarfs  (under  three  feet  in  height). 

Anouo.m'kii.v,  -J  ft.  1  in.  One  of  Jiili.-i's  free 
maids.    (.See  0<:lii(r,  CoxorAs.) 

Aius'TiiATos,  tlie  poet,  was  so  small  that 
AtheniEos  s;iys,  "  no  one  could  see  liini." 

liKiin,  or  Nicholas  Kerry,  "J  ft.  «  in.  A  native  of 
Krance  (1714-1737).  He  had  a  brother  and  sister, 
both  dwarfs. 

lloni  ur.ASKi  (Coioif  .7b«fp7i),2ft. -1  in.  at  the  age 
of  twenty.    (17.39-l.s37.) 

BfcKiNiiKR  (M<atheiv),a,  German,  born  lfi74.  He 
was  born  without  hands,  less,  or  feet.  Kac- 
siniiles  of  his  writing  are  amongst  the  Harleian 
MSS. 

C'liK-MAH  (a  Chinese),  2  ft.  1  in.,  weight  52  lbs. 
Exhibited  in  London  in  Iwso. 

Coi.o'bui  (I'rince)  of  Sleswig,  2  ft.  1  in.,  weight 
2".  lbs.  at  the  ase  of  25  (ls.51). 

CoNoi'As,  2  ft.  4  in.  One  of  the  dwarfs  of  Julia, 
niece  of  AUL'ustus.    (Scr  (ihmv,  Axdiiomkda.) 

CuPl'KitNlx,  the  dwarf  of  the  Princess  of  Wales, 
mother  of  George  III.  The  last  court  dwarf  in 
England. 

CliADii'AMl'  (Carornic).  Born  at  ralernio;  1  ft. 
s  in.  iit  death.  (lsl4-24.)  Exhibited  in  Bond 
Street,  London,  1824. 

l)i;ckKR  or  DucKKli  (,fo;«t),2  ft.G  in.  An  English- 
man (ir.lo). 

EAiiiY  QUKEN  KThe),  1  ft.  4  in.,  weight  4  lbs.  Ex- 
hibited in  Uegenl  Street,  Loudon,  1S5U.  Her 
feet  were  less  than  two  inches. 

GutsoN  (Ricliiird),  a  good  portrait  painter.  His 
wife's  maiden  name  was  Anne  Shepherd.  Each 
measured  :i  ft.  lu  in.  Waller  sang  their  praises. 
(In  the  reign  of  fliarles  I.) 

Huiisox  (.Sir  .hffriy).  Burn  at  Oakham,  Rutland- 
shire; 1  ft.  0  in.  at  the  age  of  thirty  (IU1'J-7.h). 

Jauvis  UoInO,  2  ft.  Page  of  honour  to  (^ueen 
Mary  (l.iOS-.'-.ti). 

LoLKBS  (  M'jjbrandX  2  ft.  3  in.,  weight  5,  lbs.  Ex- 
hibited at  Astley's  in  17U0. 

Lu'cius,  2  ft.,  weight  17  lbs.  The  dwarf  of  the 
Emperor  Augustus. 

Marixe  (Lizzie),  2  ft.  9  in.,  weight  4.5  lbs. 

JItDftETS,  The.  Lucia  Zarate,  the  eldest  sister, 
1  ft.  8  in.,  weight  43  lbs.  at  the  age  of  eighteen. 
Her  sister  was  a  little  taller.  E.xhibited  in 
London,  1881. 

Wii-LKii  (.Miss),  of  Virginia,  2  ft.  2  in. 

MiTK  (Cleneral),  1  ft.  9  in.  (weight  y  lbs.)  at  the  age 
of  seventeen.    Exhibited  in  London,  1881. 

Paap  (.S7?)io)0.  a  Dutch  dwarf,  2  ft.  4  in.,  weight 
27  lbs. 


Dwile 


395 


Dying  Sayings 


Phii.e'tas,   a  poet,  coiitpnipDravy  witli  Hipi'o- 

craces.    So  thin  "  that  he  \v(]r(;  leadeu  shoes  lest 

the  wind  should  lilow  him  away."    iDied  u.c. 

•-•NO.) 
Sawyer  (4.i."),;ft.  r,'.  in.,  weight  30  11  is.    Editor 

in  lx!<i,  etc.,  of  the-  hi  iimcriit,  a  paper  of  con- 

sideral)le  repute  in  Flnvida. 
Stotseuix  (C.  J/.),  of  Nureuilierg,  2  ft.  11  in. at  the 

ape  of  twenty. 
Stookkr   (Nannette),  2  ft.  9  in.     Exhibited   in 

Lmulon  in  181.5. 
Strassr  Davit  Family.    Man,  1  ft.  .'<  in.;  woman, 

1  rt.  li  in.;  child,  at  a^-e  of  Sf\  enteen,  only  •■  in. 

Embalmed  in  the  chemical  lilmiry  nf  Itiistadt. 
Teresia   iMiidnitie).      A    Corsican,    2  ft.   lo  in., 

weight  27  llis.    Exhiliitcdin  London  1773. 
Tom  TlItiMB  ('''i'fnin.  wlmsc  name  was  Chaflcs 

S.  Stratton,  iKirn  at   l!rid,i.'e|ini  i  in  Connecticut, 

U.S.,   2  ft.  1   in.,  wci.-ht  2.-,  10s.  at  the  a«e  of 

twent.v-Hve.  (I.s.3,s-s3.)  Exhibited  Ihst  in  London 

in  \M4.    In  1»(J3  he  married  Betsy  Bnmp(Lavina 

Warren). 
Tom  Tiii'.Mn,  a  Dutch  dwarf,  2  ft.  -1  in.  at  the  age 

of  eii-'liteen. 
Wanmkr  (Lucy\  2  ft.  6  in.,  weight  4.".  lbs.     E.^- 

hihited  in  London,  l.sOl,  at  the  age  of  forty-tive. 
■\VAiiiiKN'     (L((riiut>,   married    to    General    Tom 

Tlimnli  in  ]si\:;,  w;is  ;Uso  a  dwarf,  and  in  1.-*s.t  she 
larrieil  aunt  her  dwiirf,  Count    I'rimo    JIagri, 


w. 


I  ft. 


i  )n. 


"WoRMf.KKo  (./nil  II),  2  ft.  7  in.  at  the  age  of  thirty- 

ei.-dit  ( ll:iiii.\cnan  period). 
XtT  w:is  tlu'  dwai  t  nl:  IClw.-ird  VT. 
ZAitArn  ( l.iiriii).  I  ft.  3  in..    An  excellent  linguist 

of  SlM'-',il,rii  (ls:ir:l  (/..  1^-d). 

•.•  Nh'.-  li,,ni-  calisiiis  tells  us  of  an  Egyptian 
dwarf  not  Ihu    ■  t  i  liaii  a  iiartrid'-'e. 

The  names  of  seveinl  infants  ;iie  known  whose 
heads  have  not  exceeded  in  size  .-in  ordiii:iry 
billiard  ball.  The  son  of  D.  C.  Miller,  of  Cande- 
laria,  born  October  27tb,  ls,s2,  weighed  only  .sj  oz. 
A  silver  tlollar  would  entirely  liide  its  face,  and 
its  mouth  was  too  small  to  admit  an  ordinary 
lead  pencil. 

The  head  of  the  son  of  Mrs.  Charles  Tracy,  of 
Kin.gsbridge,  X.Y.,  was  not  bi.gger  than  a  horse- 
chestnut,  find  tlie  month  W(Uild  hardly  grasp  a 
goose-iiuiU.  The  mother's  wedding  ring  would 
slip  easily  up  its  leu's  and  thighs. 

The  he:iil  of  .Air.  Mariiui  Pi>e's  child  was  not  so 
big  as  a  hilliard  ball  and  the  mother's  riiig  would 
slip  up  the  arm  as  high  as  the  shoulder.  Mr.  I'oe 
stands  over  six  feet  in  height. 

1  have  a  list  of  several  other  babies  of  similar 
dimensions. 

Dwile,  or  D'wryel.  A  house-flaimel 
for  ileauiiig  floors,  comniou  iu  Norfolk, 
and  oalleil  in  the  piece  "  dwyeling." 
(Dutch,  duril,  a  clout  or  swab.) 

Dwt.  is  D-wt.,  i.e.  dciHiyii(s-iC(ig]it 
(peiiiiy-weioht).     {Sec  CwT.) 

Dyed  Beards.  The  clycinjT  of  Iteanls 
is  meutioned  by  Strabo,  and  IJottoin  the 
Weaver  satirises  tlie  custom  when  lie 
undertakes  to  play  Pyrtimiis,  and  asks, 
"  what  beard  were  I  best  to  i>lay  it  in  ?  " 

"I  will  disiiiarre  it  in  either  your  sir:iw- 
C(dour  beard,  your  cjrangc-tawnv  beard,  \onr 
puriile-in-gr:i.in  be,-ird,  or  ycuir  Frcm-li-crown- 
ccdour  beard  fyour  perfect  yellow).'— .S/k/Ac- 
speare:  Midsummer  Xiyht's  Dream,  i.  2. 

■.•The  French  couronne=  twenty-five  francs, 
was  a  gold  piece,  and  therefore  the  French-crown 
cidcmr  was  a  golden  yellow;  but  the  word  French- 
crown  also  means  baldness  brought  on  by  licen- 
tiousness. Hence  tlie  retort  "some  of  vonr 
'  Freuch-crowns '  have  no  hair  at  all." 

Dyeing  Scarlet.  Drinking  deep. 
Drinking  dyes  the  face  scarlet. 

"They  call  drinking  deep,  dyeing  scarlet."— 
Shakespeare :  1  Uairy  r\'.  ii.  i. 


Dying  Sayings  (real  or  traditional) : 

.\DAMs  (Preitiilriit)':  "  Independence  for  ever." 
AoA.Ms  Willi  Q.) :  "  11  is  the  htst  of  earth.    1  am 

content." 
Aiioisox:  "  See  how  a  Christian  dies,"  or  "  See  in 

wh:it  peace  a  Christian  can  die."    (.Sec  Beriiy.) 
Ai.iiKRT  (^Prince  C'onswO :   "1  have  such  sweet 

thoughts." 
At.e.xa.npkr  1.  Cof  Russia)  :  "Que  vonsdevezgtre 

fatignee"  (to  his  wife  Elizabeth). 
At.E.xAXDER  11.  (of  Russia):   "I  am  sweeping 

through  the  gates,  washed  in  the  blood  of  the 

Lamb." 
Alexander   III.  (of  Russia):   "This  box  was 

inesented  to  me  by  the  Emperor  Isic]  of  Prus- 
sia." 
Ai.FtEiti:   "Clasp  my  hand,  dear  friend,  I  am 

d.\ing." 
-Axaxai/oras  (the  philosopher,  who  maintained 

himself  by  keeping  a  scIuhiI.  being  asked  if  he 

wisheil  for  anything,  replied) :  "Hive  the  bovs 

a  holiday." 
Axi;ki,o  (.Michael):    "My  soul  I  resign  to  God, 

my  body  to  the  eaith,  my  worldly  goods  to  my 

next  akin." 
AxXE  BoLEVN'  (on  the  scaffold):  "It  [my  neck] 

is  very  small,  very  small." 
AXTOIXETTE.      (Sic  hiliiir,  MaRIK.) 

AXToxv  (of  Padua)  :  "  I  see  my  God.    He  calls 

me  to  Him." 
Ai!(  II  i.Mi-.'oKs  (being  ordered  by  a  Ronan  soldier 

to  follow  him,  replied):  "Wait  till  I  have  lin- 

ished  my  problem."    (.See  Lavoisier.) 
Arria  :  "  ily  I'a'tus,  it  is  not  painful." 
AuousTi's  (h:i\  ing  ;isked  how  lie  had  played  hi.^ 

jiart,  and  bcim.',  of  course,  commended,  said): 

"  Vos  phimirte." 
Bacox  CFraiuia)  -.  "My  name  and  memory  I  leave 

to  men's  ch;iri  table  speeches,  to  foreign  nations 

and  to  the  next  ;ige."" 
BAit.i.EV  ;  "  Yes  1  it  is  very  cold."    (This  lie  said 

(Ui  his  way  to  the  guillotine,  when  one  said  to 

him,  "Why,  how  ,\cut  sli,-ike.") 
Beaii-ort   (Ciinlliuil  llcnrin:    "I  pray  you  all 

jiray  for  me." 
Beai  3IOXT  (Cartliiial):  "What!  is  there  no  es- 

c;iping  de;Lth  /"' 
Bel-kkt  (Tlionitif!  (i) :  "I  confide  niv  S(ml  and  the 

cause  of  the  Church  to  t4od,  to  the  Virgin  M:iiy, 

to  the  patron  Siiints  of  the  Church,  and  lo  St. 

Dennis."     (This   was  said  as  he  went  to  the 

altar  in  Canterbury  Cathedral,  where  he  was 

;iss;issiiiatcd.) 
Behe  i'l'lie  Vnicrabh') :  "Glory  be  to  the  Father, 

and  to  the  Son.  and  to  the  Holy  Ghost." 
Beethovex  (who  was  deaf):  "1  shall  hear  in 

heaven." 
BERitY  (Madame  de) :  "Is  not  this  dying  with 

courage  and  true  greatness  ? "    (See  Addi.sox.) 
Bo  ILEA  u  :  "  It  is  a  great  ccmsolation  to  a  poet  on 

the  iioint  of  death  that  he  has  never  written  a 

line  injurious  to  good  morals." 
BitoxTii  (father   of   the  authoresses) :   "  While 

tlicre  is  lite  there  is  will."    (Like  Louis  XVI II., 

Vespasian,  Siward,  and  others,  he  died  stand- 
ing.) 
BisoufiHTON  (.Binhop):  "Let  the  earth  he  filled 

with  His  glory." 
Bi  Rxs :  "  Don't  let  the  awkward  squad  fire  over 

my  grave." 
Bvnox  :  "  1  must  sleep  now." 
CESAR  (Julius) :  "Et  tu.  Brute?"    (This  he  said 

to  Brutus,  liis  most  intimate  friend,  when  lie 

stalilied  him.) 
CAMEitox  (Ciihmel  James):  "Scots,  follow  me!" 

(He  was  killed  at  Bull-Run,  21st  .July,  Isfil.) 
Casti.eheai:!!  :  "  Bankhead,  let  me  fall  into  your 

arms.      It    is   all    over."     (Said    to  Dr.   B;ink- 

head.) 
Catesry'  ((me  of  tlie  c<uispirators  in  the  Gun- 
powder Plot) :  "  Stand  by  me,  Tom,  ;uid  we  will 

die  together." 
Chari.ejiagxe  :  "Lord,  into  Thy  hand  I  com- 

mend.niy  spirit."    (.See  Coi.ujibi's  and  Ta.sso.) 
Charles  I.  (of  England,  just  before  he  laid  his 

head  on  the  block,  said  to  Juxou,  Archbishop  of 

Canterbury) :  "  Remember." 
Charles  II.  (of  ;Englaud) :   "Don't  forget  poor 

Nell,"  or  "  Dcm't  let  p.oor  Nell  starve  "     (mean- 
ing Nell  Gwynne). 
Ch.a,rles  v.:  "Ah!  Jesus."  .    "  '' 


Dying    Sayings 


396 


Dying    Sayings 


Charles  viti.  (of  France):  "I  bore  never  again 

to  commit  a  mortal  sin  nor  even  a  venial  one, 

if  I   can  liclii  it."     (With  tliese  wonls  in  liis 

mouth,  says  ('c>niin,t,'es,  he  f.'ave  up  tlie  Lrlinst.) 

Charles  IX.  (of  France,  in  whose  reit.'n  occnrreil 

tlie  Bartliiilomew   slalI^'llter) :   "Nurse,  nurse, 

what  ninnier  :   what  Jihiod!    Oil!  1  have  done 

wnmg:  (Jip(l  iiarclon  me." 

Chaulottk  (T/ie  Princc-iS)  -.  "You  make  rnetlrunk. 

Pray  leave  me  (luiet.    1  feel  it  affects  my  head." 

Chesteufielu  iLmd):  "  Give  Dayrolles  a  chair." 

CHUisT  (.Jesus)  :  "  It  is  finished  !"  (John  xi.x.  3o.) 

CiiKVsosToM:    "Glory    to   God    for   all    Ihiufe's. 

Amen." 
Cici-'.Ko  (to  his  assassins)  :  "Strike!" 
Coi.Losy:    "Honour    these    grey    hairs,    young 
man."    (Said  to  the  German  who  assassinated 


Coi.r.MKUS:  "Lord,  into  Thy  hands  I  commend 
my  spirit."    (.See  Chaulemagse  and  Tasso.) 

CiiMiE  (Due  d'KnghieH):  "I  die  for  my  king  and 
fur  Krance."    (Shot  by  order  of  Napoleon  1.  in 

1.S04.) 

Coi'Kii'N'lct's:    "Now,  O  Lord,  set   thy  servant 

free."    (.SVc  Luke  ii,  !■«.) 
CouDAY  iClKirldtti):  "One  man  have  I  slain  to 

save  a  hunflred  tlmusand." 
CkaNMER  (Aichbi.'hfii  ill'  I'lniterhnni'):  "Tliat  iin- 

wortliy  h.-iiKl!     Tliat   uii\viirl]i.\    h.ind!"     (This 

he  said,  ariiirdinu' to  .a  in.inil.u-  tiadit  icui.  as  he 

held   ill  the  tiames  his  right  hand  which   had 

sigiieil  his  apostasy.) 
Ciio.MiiE  uliilin):   "0  Hohhema,  Hobbema,  liipw  I 

do  l.i\e  thee!" 
CuojiwEi.L:  "My  design  is  to  make  what  haste 

1  can  to  be  gone." 
CuviER  (to  the  nurse  who  was  applying  leeches) : 

"Nurse,  it  was  I  who  discovered  that  leeches 

have  red  blood." 
Daxton  (to  the  executioner):  "Be  sure  you  show 

the  mob  my  head.    It  will  be  a  long  time  ere 

they  see  its  like." 
De.mo'nax  ( thephilosoidier) :  "You  may  go  home, 

the  shuw  IS  over"  iLiiciidi).    (.See  Uahei.ais.) 
DKiiitv  (/;■(((■/  of)  :  "  Douglas,  1  would  give  all  my 

lands  to  save  thee." 
Dickens  (Siiid  in  reply  to  nis  sister-in-law,  who 

urged  him  to  lie  down)  :  "  Yes,  on  the  ground." 
DiDEROT:  " The  first  Step  towards  philosophy  is 

incredulity." 
DiooENEs  (re(iuested  that  his  body  should  lie 

buried,  and  when  his  friends  said  that  his  body 

would  be  Icirn  to  pieces  he  replied)  :  "yuidmihi 

nucel)Uiit  ferarum  denies  nihil  sentient!." 
DoroLAs  (/-.'((jO  :  "Fight  on,  my  merry  men." 
Kowards   (.limuthaii)  :  "Trust  in  God,  and  you 

need  not  fear." 
Ei.box  (Lord)  -.  "  It  matters  not-where  I  am  going 

whetlier  the  weather  be  cold  or  hot." 
Elizabeth  (giieen):  "All  my  possessions  for  a 

moment  of  time." 
Elizabeth  (sister  of  Louis  XVI.,  on  her  wav  to 

the  guillotine,  when  her  kerchief  fell  from'her 

neck)  :  "  1  pray  you,  gentlemen,  in  the  name  of 

modesty,  suffer  iiie  to  comm'  mv  bosom." 
Elpheoe  (Airlihislinit  of  Caiiti  rhiir>i)  :  "  You  urge 

me  in  \  iiiii.     I  am  iim  the  man  to  i>rn\  ide  Cliris- 

tian  flesh  for  Pagan  teeth,  liy  robbing  my  flock 

to  enrich  their  enemy." 
Epamixoxuas  (wounded  ;  on  being  told  that  the 

Thebans  were  victorious) :  "  Then  I  die  happy." 

(See  Wolfe.) 
Etty  :  "  Wonderful  !    Wonderful  this  death  ! " 
EtJLER  :  "  I  am  dying." 
Earr  (M.D.)  :  "  Lord,  receive  my  spirit." 
Fklton  (.John) :  "  I  am  the  man  "  (/'.c.  who  shot 

the  Duke  of  Buckingham). 
Fontenelle  :  "  I  suffer  nothing,  but  I  feel  a  sort 

of  difficulty  of  li\  ing  longer." 
Franklin  :  "  A  dying  man  can  do  nothing  easily." 
Fretierick  V.  (of  Denmark):  "There  is  not  a 

drop  of  lilood  on  my  hands."    (See  Pericles.) 
Gainsborough:  "We  are  all  going  to  heaven, 

and  Vandyke  is  of  the  company."    (.See  Crome.) 
Garrick  :  "  Oh,  dear  ! " 
Gastox   de   Foix   (called   "Phoebus"   for   his 

beauty) :    "  I  aiu    a   dead   man  !     Lord,   have 

mercy  upon  me  ! " 
George  IV. :  "  Watty,  what  is  this  ?   It  is  death, 

my  boy.    They  have  deceived  me."    (Said  to  his 

page,  Sir  Wathen  Waller.) 
GiBBos :  "  Mon  Dieu  !    Mun  Dieu  1 "      -' 


GcETHE  :  "  More  light." 

GoLD-SMiTH  :  "No,  it  is  not."    (.-^aid  in  reply  to 

Dr.  Turton,  who  asked  him  if  his  mind  was  at 

ea  e.) 
Grant  [General):  "I  want  nobody  distressed  on 

my  acccHiut." 
(iitEooRv  VII.:  "I  have  loved  justiie  and  hated 

iniciuitv.  therefore   1   die  in   e.\ile.'      (He  had 

embidiled     himself    with     Heinrich    IV.,    the 

Kaiser,  and  bad  retired  to  Salerno.) 
Grev   (LoiIii  Jime):    "Lord,  into    Thy   liauds    I 

commend  my  spirit."   (See  Charlkmagne.) 
Grotii'.s  :  "  Be  seri<uis." 
Guktavus  AlJOLlMir.s:  "My  God!" 
Haller:  "My  friend,  the  pulse  has  ceased  to 

beat."  (This  was  said  to  bis  mediail  attendant.) 
Hannibal:  "Let   us  now  ielie\  c  the  Keiimns  of 

tbe.r  fe;irs  by  the  death  of  a  feeble. dd  maiL" 
Harrison  (11'.//.):  "1  wish  you  to  understand 

tlie   true   principles   of   go\  eniiueut.     1   wish 

them  c;irried  out.  :ind  :isk  nothing  more." 
Haydn  died  singim-'-Miod  preserve  the  emperor  !" 
Hazlitt  :  "  1  have  led  ;i  b:ippv  life." 
Henry  11.  (of  Kngland):  "  Now  let  the  world  go 

as  it  will  ;  I  c;ue  for  nothing  more."    (This  he 

s;iid  when  he  was  fold  that  his  favouriie  son 

John  was  one  of  those  who  were  conspiring 

:igainst  him.    (Shakespe;ire  makes  Macbeth  say  : 
"  1    giu  to  be  aweary  of  the  sun. 

And  wish  th'  estate  o"  the  world  were  now  un- 
done.") 
Henry    hi.:    "I   am    Harry   of   Winchester." 

(These  can  hardly  be  called  his  dying  words, 

but  luily  the  last  recorded.    They  were  spoken 

(Ui  the  Held   of  battle  wlien  a  man  was  about 

toshiy  him.    The  bat  tie  i>f  Evesham  was  f<uiglit 

August  Jtli,  U'U;),  but  Henry  111.  died  November 

ir.th,  liTJ.i 
Henry  VII. :  "  We  heartily  desire  our  executors 

to  consider  how  beboofful  it  is  to  be  prayed  for." 
Henry    VUI.:    "All   is   lost!     Monks,  monks, 

monks  ! " 
Henry  (Prince):  "Tie  a  rope  nuind  my  body, 

pull  mc  out  of  bed,  and  lay  me  in  aslieSj  that  I 

may  die  with  repentant  prayers  to  an  otfeuded 

God." 
Herbert   (George):    "Now,   Lord,  receive   my 

soul." 
Hobbe,«:   "Now  I  am  about   to   take   my   last 

voyage— a  great  leaiiin  the  dark." 
HuEER  (Andreas):   "1   will  not   kneel.     Fire!" 

(Spoken  to  the  soldiers  commissioned  to  shoot 

him.) 
Hoot):  "  Dying,  dying." 
Hooi'Eii :  "  Lord,  receive  my  spirit." 
Hi'JiBoi.DT  :  "  How  grand  these  lays  !  They  seem 

to  beckon  e;irth  to  lieaveiL" 
HlNTER  (Dr.  Williinii):  "If  I  had  strength   to 

h(dd  a  pen,  I  would  write  down  how  easy  and 

lileasant  a  thing  it  is  to  die." 
Irving  (Edward) :  "  If  I  die,  1  die  unto  the  Lord. 

Amen." 
Jackson  (surnamed  "Stonewall"):  "Send  Hill 

to  the  front." 
Ja.mes  V.  (of  Scotland) :  "  It  flbe  crown  of  Scot- 
Land]  came  with  ;i  lass  and  will  go  with  a  l:iss." 

(Tliis   he   said   when    told   that    tile   i|iieen    had 

given    liirth   to   a  daugliter— the  future    Mary 

(,)iieeii  of  Scots.) 
Jefkkrson  (of  America) :  "  I  resign  my  spirit  to 

(iod,  my  daughter  to  my  country." 
Jero.me  (of  Prague)  :  "Thouknowest,  Lord,  that 

I  have  loved  the  truth." 
jEsrs  (.See  Christ). 
Joan  of  Arc:   "Jesus  !  Jesus  !  Jesus  !    Blessed 

be  God." 
Johnson  (Dr.):  "God  bless  you,  niy  dear"  (to 

Jliss  Morris). 
Josephine  (the  divorced  wife  of  Napoleon  I.): 

"  L'ile  d'Ellie  !    Napoleon!" 
Julian   (called   the  "Apostate"):   "Vicisti,  O 

Galilee." 
Keats  :  "  I  feel  the  flowers  growing  over  me." 
Ken  (Bislinp) :  "  God's  will  be  done." 
Knox  :  "  Now  it  is  come." 
Lamb  (Charles)  :  "  My  bed-fellows  are  cramp  and 

cough— we  three  all  in  one  bed." 
Lambert  (the  M.artyr) :  "None  but  Christ !  None 

but  Christ  !  '    (This  be  said  as  he  was  pitched 

into  the  ffames.) 
Lavoisier,  being  condemned  to  die,  asked  for  a 

respite  oi  two  weeks  that  be  might  complete 


Dying   Sayings 


397 


Dying    Sayings 


some  experiments  in  wliich  he  was  engaged.  He 

was  told  that  the  Reiniblic  was  in  no  need  iif 

experiments.    iSee  above,  Akchimk'des.) 
L.iwHEXCK  C6Y.).   Said  to  have  been  broiled  alive 

on  a  gridiron,  A. I).  L'oS. 
"  This  side  enough  is  toasted,  so  turn  me,  tyrant, 
eat. 

And  see  whether  raw  or  roasted  I  make  the 
better  meat."  Fuxe :  Book  of  Martyrs. 

Lawhescb  (Com.  Jamen]-.   "Don't  give  up  the 

ship."    (Mortally  wounded  on  the  Chesapeake.) 
Leicbstkr  (.Earl  a/) :  "  By  the  arm  of  St.  James, 

it  is  time  to  die." 
Leopold  I.  (the  Kaiser):   "Let  me  die  to  the 

sound  of  sweet  music."    (See  MtiiAiiEAU.) 
Lisle    (.Sir    Ocorge) :    "Ay!    but    I    have   been 

nearer  to  you,  my  friends,  many  a  time,  and  you 

have  missed  me." 
Locke  (John)  :  "  Oh  !  the  depth  of  the  riches  of 

the  goodness  and  knowlcdi-'e  of  (iod.     Cease 

now."      QThis  was  said  to  I.ady  Masliam,  who 

was  reading  to  him  some  of  the  I'salnis.) 
Louis  I.  :   "  Huz  !   huz!"     (Bou.iuet  says,  "He 

turned  his  face  to  the  wall,  twice  cried  huz! 

huz!  [out ;  out '.)  and  then  <lied.) 
Louis  IX. :  "1  will  enter  now  into  the  house  of 

the  Lord." 
Louis  XI.:  "Notre  dame  d'Embrun,  ma  bonne 

maitresse,  aidez  nioi. " 
Louis  XIV. :  "  why  weep  you  ?   Did  you  think  I 

should  live  for  ever?     1  thought  dying  had 

beeu  harder." 
Louis  XVI.  (on  the  scaffold):   "Frenchmen,  I 

die  guiltless    of    the  crimes  imputed  to  me. 

Pray  God  my  blood  fall  not  on  France  I  " 
Louis  XVIII.:  "A  king  should  die  standing." 

(Nee  Vespasian  and  Siwaro.) 
Mapisox  (James)  :  "  I  always  talk  better  lyiug 

down." 
Mahomet  or  MoiiAMMEi):  "O  Allah!  ))e  it  sol 

Henceforth  among  the  glorious  host  of  Para- 
dise." 
Malkshekres   (to    the     priest):    "Hold    your 

tongue  !  your  wretched  chatter  disgusts  me." 
Mar.vt  (stablied  in  his  bath  by  Charlotte t'oid;iy): 

"  Help  !    help  me,  my  dear  !  "    (To  his  hou^e- 

keeiier.) 
Mabgabet  (of  Scotland,  wife  of  Louis   XI.  of 

France; :  "  Fi  de  la  vie:   iiu'ou  ne  m'en  parle 

plus." 
Marie  Astoixette:  "  Farewell,  my  children, 

for  ever.    I  am  going  to  your  father." 
Martin  (St.)  -.  "  Wliat  dost  thou  here,  thou  cruel 

beast?"  (S;uil   to   the  devil).    (St.   Sulpicius: 

Epistle  to  B((.'<siila.) 
Martinuzzi  (Cardinal),  the  Wolsey  of  Hungary. 

He  was  assassinated  uttering  the  words, "  Jesu, 

Maria ! " 
Mary  ((Jnenn  of  England)  -.  "  You  will  find  the 

word  Calais  written  on  my  heart." 
Masaniello  :"  Ungrateful  traitors!"    (To  his 

assassins.)' 
Mathews  (Charles') :  "  I  am  ready." 
Maximilian  (Kmperor  of  Mexico):  "Poor  Car- 

lotta  !  "    (Referring  to  his  wife.) 
MEL.iNCTHON  (in  reply  to  the  iiuestion,  "  Do  you 

want  anything  ?  ")  :  "  Xothiiig  but  heaven." 
MiRAiiEAU  :  "  Let  1116  f:UI  asleep  to  the  sound  of 

delicious  music."    (See  Leopold.) 
MoNic.v  (,S't.) :  "In  peace  I  will  sleep  with  Him 

and  take  my  rest."    (St.  Awjustin  ;  Confessions.) 
MoouY  (the  actor) : 

"  Reason  thus  with  life  : 
If  I  do  lose  thee,  I  do  lose  a  thing 
That  none  but  fools  would  keep." 

(The  same  is  said  of  Paterson,  an  actor  iu  the 

Norwich  Comiany.) 
Moore  (Hannah) :  "  Patty,  Joy." 
MooRE  (Sir  Jolm):  "  I  hope  my  country  will  do 

me  justice." 
More  (Sir  Tho7nas)  :   "  For  my  coming   down, 

let  me  shift  for  myself." 
Mozart  :  "  You  spoke  of  a  refreshment,  Emilie  ; 

take  my  last  notes,  and  let  me  hear  once  more 

my  solace  and  delight." 
MuRAT  (King  of  Naples):   "Soldiers,  save  my 

face  ;  aim  at  my  heart.    Farewell."     (Said  to 

the  men  appointed  to  shoot  him.) 
Napoleon  I. :  "  Mon  Dieu  !  La  nation  Franqaise. 

Tete  d'armee !  " 
Napoleon  III. :""  Were  you  at  Sedan  ? "   (To  Dr. 

Couneau.) 


NELSON:  "I  thank  (Jod  1  have  done  my  duty. 

Kiss  me,  Hardy." 
Nero  :  "  (jualis  artifex  perio." 
Palmer  (the  actor):  "There  is  another  and  a 

better  world."    (This  he  said  on  tlie  stage.    It 

is  a  line  iu  the  i)art  he  was  performing— V'/ie 

Stranger.) 
Pascal  :  "  My  God,  forsake  me  not." 
Per'icles  (of  Athens) :  "  I   have  never  caused 

any  citizen  to  put  ou  mourning  on  my  account." 

(See  FliKUERlCK  V.) 

Pitt  (  WHiiani) :  "  Alas,  my  country  !" 

PiZAituo  ;  ■•  .Jesu  !  " 

Pom  PA  Dor  u  (Mdme.  de) :  "Stay  a  little  longer,  M. 
le  I'liir,  and  we  will  go  together." 

PoMAToHsKi  (after  the  bridge  over  the  Pliesse 
was  liliiwii  up) :  "  Gentlemen,  it  behoves  us  now 
to  die  with  honour." 

POPE:  "  Friendship  itself  is  Put  a  part  of  virtue." 

R.iBEL.ils  :  "  Let  down  the  curtaiu,  the  farce  is 
over."    (See  Demo'nax.) 

Raleich  :  "  It  matters  little  how  the  head  lies." 
(Said  <m  the  scaffold  where  he  was  beheaded.) 

Renan  :  "  We  perish,  we  disappear,  but  the  march 
of  lime  goes  on  for  ever." 

RUHAUD  I.  (of  En;,-I:in(l)  :  "Youth,  I  foru'ivo 
thee  !'■  (This  w:is  s:iid  to  Bfni:iii(l  deGuiinluii, 
who  shot  biiu  with  :ui  :irro\v  at  (■li:iiii>.)  Tlieu 
to  his  atlenchnits  ho  luldccl,"  T:il.  e  i.ff  liis  chains, 
give  him  Pki  sliilliiit.'.-.  :uid  It-t  liiiii  go." 

Richard  III.  (of  Eir--l:iiMl|  :  -Tn'.ison  !  treason  !" 
(At  Boswortli.  where  his  best  lueii  deserted  him 
and  joined  the  ariiiv  of  Richmond,  afterwarus 
Henry  VII.) 

RouEsPiERRE  (taunted  with  the  death  of  Dan- 
ton) :  "Cowards!  Why  did  you  not  defend 
him?"  (This  must  have  been  before  his  jaw 
was  broken  by  the  slhrt  of  the  geudarme  the 
day  liefore  he  w;is  i,'ui]lotined.) 

RocHE.IAQUELKiN  (the  Veiulean  hero):  "We  go 
to  meet  the  foe.  If  I  advance,  follow  n.e  ;  if  I 
retre:it,  slay  me  ;  if  I  f;ill.  avenge  me." 

Roland  (Madnnie):  "(J  liberty!  What  crimes 
are  committeil  In  thy  ii:ime  !" 

S.\LAPIN  :  ■'  When  I  am  buried,  carry  my  winding- 
sheet  on  the  point  of  a  spear,  and  say  these 
words:  Behold  the  spoils  which  Sal;idin  carries 
with  him!  Of  all  his  victories,  realms,  and 
riches,  nothing  remains  to  him  but  this."  (See 
Severus.) 

Sand  {(leorge):  "  Laissez  la  verdure."  (That  is, 
leave  the  plot  green,  and  do  not  cover  the  grave 
with  liricks  or  stone.) 

SCAUuoN  :  "  Ah,  my  children,  you  cannot  cry  for 
me  so  much  as  I  have  made  you  laugh." 

Schiller:  "Many  things  are  growing  plain  and 
clear  to  my  understanding." 

Scott  i.svr  Waiter):  "(^od  bless  you  all.  I  feel 
myself  again."     (To  his  familv.) 

Sebve'tus  (at  the  stake):  "Christ,  Son  of  the 
eternal  God,  have  mercy  upon  me."  (Calvin  in- 
sisted on  his  saying-,  "  the  eternal  Son  of  God," 
but  he  would  not,  and  was  burnt  to  death.) 

Seve'rus:  "I  have  been  everytliin'-'.  :ithI  ever.v- 
thliig  is  nothing.  A  little  urn  will  contain  all 
that  remains  of  one  for  whom  the  whole  world 
was  too  little."    (See  Saladin.) 

Seymour  (Jane) :  "  No,  my  head  never  committed 
any  treason  ;  but,  if  you  want  it,  you  cau  take 
it."  (.\s  Jane  Seymour  died  within  a  fortnight 
of  the  birth  of  her  son  Edward— the  cause  of 
unbounded  delight  to  the  king— I  cannot  belic\  e 
that  this  traditionary  speech  is  correct.) 

Sharpe  (Archbishop):  "  I  shall  be  happy." 

Shekiihn  :  "  I  am  absolutely  undone." 

Sidney  (4?(7''™oM):  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer 
liveth.  I  die  for  the  good  old  cause."  (He  was 
condemned  to  death  by  Judge  Jeffries  as  au 
accomplice  in  the  Rye  House  plot.) 

Sidney  (Sir  Philip) :  "  I  would  not  change  my 
joy  for  the  empire  of  the  world." 

SiwARD  (the  Dane) :  "  Lift  me  up  that  I  may  die 
standing,  not  lying  down  like  a  cow."  (See 
Louis  XVIII.  and  Vespasian.) 

Socrates  :  "Crito,  weowea  cock  to^sculapios." 

Stael  (Madame  de):  "I  have  loved  God,  my 
father,  and  liberty." 

Stephen  (the  first  Christian  martyr):  "Lord, 
Into  thy  hands  I  commend  my  sjiirit." 

SwEDENiioRG:  "What  o'clock  is  it?"  (After 
being  told,  he  added)  "Thank  you,  aud  God 
bless  you." 


Dyraphna 


39S 


Eagle 


Talma  :  "  The  worst  is,  I  cannot  see."    (But  bis 

last  word  was)  "  Voltaire." 
Tasso  :  "  Lord,  into  Tby  bands  I  commend  my 

spirit."  (.See  C/'HAHLKMAGXB,  and  t'OLUMBU.s.) 
Tayi.ob  (General  Zachary):  "I  have  tried  to  do 

my  duty,  and  am  nut  afraid  to  die.  I  am  ready." 
TkxtkiuiKX  (lord  Ch if/ Justice):  "Gentlemen  of 

the  jury,  ymi  may  retire." 
TiiEitAME.NKS  (tlie  Athenian,  condemned  by  Cri- 

tias   to  drink   licmlm-k,  said  as  he  drank  the 

poison) :  "This  to  the  fair  Critias." 
TiiiKK   (Tlie    J'ciiitciit):    "Lord,   remember   me 

wlieu  Thou  romest  into  Thy  Kingdom." 
Thiri.ow  (Loi-d):  "  I'll  ))e  shot  it  1  don't  believe 

I'm  dyini.'." 
Tvi.Eit  (ll'dO:  "Because  they  are  all  under  my 

command,  they  are   sworu  to  do  what  I  bid 

them." 
Vaxe   (.Sir  Ilarrii):   "It  is  a  bad  cause  which 

cannot  licar  tlie  woi'ds  of  a  d\  inw  man." 
'N'^Ksi'AsiAN  :  "  A  km:,-  sbiiubl  (lie  standing'  "  (Sir 

Lot' IS  .Will,  and  Slwahu);  hut  bis  last  words 

were,  "  I't  piilo,  dciis  do'  (rcfcniug  In  I  be  fact 

that  lie  w.as  the  llrst  of  the  Roman  emperors 

who  died  a  natural  death,  if,  indeed,  Augustus 

was  poisoueil,  as  many  sujipose). 
■Vicars  (nedtnj)  -.  "Cover  my  face." 
A'oLTAiUE :  "  Do  let  me  die  in  peace." 
"VVashisgtos  :  "It  is  well.    I  die  hard,  but  am 

not  afraid  to  go." 
Wesley  :  "  The  best  of  all  is,  God  is  with  us." 
■WiLnBllFOltCE  (His  father  said  to  him,  "So  He 

fc'iveth  His  beloved  sleep"  ;  to  which  Willier- 

force  rejilied) :  "  Ves,  and  sweet  indeed  is  the 

rest  which  Christ  giveth."     (.Saying  this,  he 

never  spoke  aKain.) 
■WiLLiA.M  I.:  "To  my   Lady,   the  Holy  Mary,  I 

commend  myself  ;   that   she,  by  her   prayers, 

may  reconcile  her  beloved  Son  to  me." 
■William  II.:   "Shoot,   Walter,  in   the  devil's 

name  ! "    (Walter  Tyrrell  did  shoot,  but  killed 

the  king.) 
WtLLlA.ii   III.:  "Can  this  last  Ioiil,-?"    (To  bis 

jihysician.    He  suffered  from  a  broken  coli;ir- 

bone.) 
William  (of  Nassau) :  "  ()  (iod,  have  mercy  upon 

me,  and   upon   this   I'oor    nation."     (This  was 

just  before  he  was  shot  liy  lialtha.sar  Gerard.) 
AVii.soN  (the  oniitholoLTisi):   "Bury  me  where 

the  birds  will  sing  over  my  grave." 
\A'n[,i-E  ((hiuriil):  "  Wh:it  I  do  they  run  alre:idy  ? 

Then  1  die  happy."    (Nrc  Ki'AMIXoxhas.) 
AVoLSEY  ((^n■dilltll) :  "  Had  1  but  served  my  God 

with  half  the  zi':il  th:it  1  have  served  my'  king. 

He  would  ncd-  have  left  me  ill  my  grey  hairs." ^ 
WoniiswonTll :   "God  bless  you  !     Is' that  you, 

Dora?" 
Wyatt  (T/ioiHo.*)  :  "What  I  then  said  [about  the 

treason  of  Princess  Elizabeth]  I  unsay  now  ; 

and  what  I  now  say  is  the  truth."    (This  was 

said  to  the  pl'iest  who  waited  ou  liini  ou  the 

scaffold.) 
Ziska  CJohn) :  "  Make  my  skin  into  drum-heads 

for  the  Bohemian  cause." 

Many  of  these  sajniigs,  like  all  other 
history,  belong  to  the  region  of  Phrase 
and  Fable,  but  the  collection  is  inter- 
esting and  fairly  exhaustive. 

Dymph'na.  The  tutelar  saint  of 
those  stricken  in  spirit.  She  was  a 
native  of  Britain,  and  a  woman  of  high 
rank.  It  is  said  that  she  was  murdered, 
at  Geel,  in  Belgium,  by  her  own  father, 
because  she  resisted  his  incestuous  pas- 
sion. Geel,  or  Gheel,  has  long  been  a 
famous  colony  for  the  insane,  who  are 
sent  thither  from  all  parts  of  Europe, 
and  are  boarded  with  the  peasantry. 

Dynamite  (3  syl.).  An  explosive 
compound  consisting  of  some  absorbent 
(as  infusorial  earth)  saturated  with  nitro- 
glycerine.    (Greek,  diutCtmis,  power.) 


Dynamite  Saturday.  January  24th, 
1S8.-3,  when  great  dtimage  was  done  to  the 
Houses  of  Parliament  and  the  Tower  of 
London  by  explosions'of  dynamite.  The 
Law-Courts  and  some  other  public  build- 
ings were  to  have  been  attacked  by 
the  dynamiters,  Ttut  happily  were  well 
guarded.     {!S('c  Clan-na-Gael.) 

Dyot  Street,  Bloomsbury  Square, 
London  ;  now  called  George  Street,  St. 
Giles.  Made  familiar  by  a  well-known 
song  in  Bumbastcs  Fitrioso  : 

"  My  lodging  is  in  heal  her  lane, 

A  parlour  that's  ne.xt  to  the  sky  .  .  ." 

niiodes. 

Dyser.  The  deities  who  conduct  the 
souls  of  the  deceased  to  the  palace  of 
Odin.      {Scaiidiiiavic(?i  mijtholo(jy.) 

Dy'vour.  The  debtor's  badge  in 
Scotland  (French,  (kroir,  to  own). 
Bankriqits  were  comiielled  to  wear  an 
upper  garment,  half  yellow  and  half 
brown,  with  a  jiarti  -  coloured  cap. 
This  law  was  abolished  in  the  reign  of 
William  IV. 

Dyz'emas  Day.  Tithe  day.  (Por- 
tuguese, (iiz"tiii((s,  tithes ;  Law  Latin, 
dec'  uH(C.) 


E. 

E.  This  letter  represents  a  window ; 
in  Hebrew  it  is  called  }ic  (;i  window). 

E.G.  or  e.g.  (Latin  iov exempli gra' lia). 
By  way  of  example  ;  for  instance. 

E  Pluribus  Unum  (Ltitin).  One 
unity  conipcsed  of  nnuiy  jiarts.  The 
motto  of  the  United  States  of  Americti. 

Eager  or  cagrc.  Sharp,  keen,  acid  ; 
the  French  eiigrc.  (Latin,  crude  form, 
eccr-  "acer,"  sharp.) 

"  It  doth  posset 
And  curd,  like  eager  droppings  into  milk." 
Slmkesiwore:  Hamlet,  i.  5. 
"  Ve.x  him  with  eager  words." 

tilialcet^peare :  Henry  YI.,  ii.  i. 

Eagle  (in  royal  banners).  It  was  the 
ensign  of  the  ancient  kings  of  Babylon 
and  Persia,  of  the  Ptolemies  and  Se- 
leu'cides.  The  Eomans  adopted  it  in  con- 
junction with  other  devices,  but  Ma'rius 
made  it  the  ensign  of  the  legion,  and 
contined  the  other  devices  to  the  cohorts. 
The  French  under  the  Empire  assumed 
the  same  device. 

Eagle  (in  Christian  art)  is  emblematic 
of  St.  John  the  EvaugeUst,  because,  hke 
the  eagle,  he  looked  on  "the  sun  of 
glory"  ;  the  eagle  was  one  of  the  four 
figures  which  made  up  the  cherub  (Ezek. 
i.  10). 


Eagle 


399 


Ear 


Eagle  (in  fuuerals).  The  Eomaus 
used  to  let  au  eagle  fly  from  the  funeral 
pile  of  a  deceased  emperor.  Dryden. 
alludes  to  this  custom  in  his  stanzas  on 
Oliver  Cromwell  after  his  funeral,  vrhen 
he  says,  "  Oificious  haste  did  let  too  soon 
th    sacred  eagle  fly." 

ISagle  (in  heraldry)  signifies  forti- 
tude. 

Eagle  (for  lecterns  in  churches).  The 
eagle  is  the  natural  enemy  of  the  serpent. 
The  two  Testaments  are  the  two  out- 
spread wings  of  the  eagle. 

V  Pliny  in  his  Xatunil  History  (book 
X.  chap.  3)  enumerates  six  kinds  of 
eagles:  (1)  Mela;nactos,  ('2)  P^'gargus, 
(3)  Morjihuos,  which  Homer  {Iliad, 
xxiv.  31(J)  calls  perknos,  (4)  Percnop- 
terus,  (o)  Gnesios,  the  royal  eagle,  and 
(6)  Haliasetos,  the  osprey. 

Eagle  (in  phrases). 

Tluj  youth  is  rciieiced  like  the  caylc's 
(Ps.  ciii.  5).  This  refers  to  the  suiJer- 
stitiou  feigned  by  poets  that  every  ten 
years  the  eagle  soars  into  the  "fiery 
region,"  and  jjUmges  tlienec  into  the 
sea,  where,  moulting  its  featlicrs,  it 
acquires  new  life. 

"  Slie  saw  wliere  lie  iipstai'ted  brave 
Our  i.f  ilii-  well.  .  .  . 
A'*  e:i'--lr  fresli  out  (if  the  ocean  wa\e, 
AViiHif  hi'  halh  lefte  liis  iiluines  all  lioi-.v  sray. 
Ami  lU'cks  UinisclE  witli  felUers  ymulily  Kay." 
,S;)CH6cr;  Faerie  Qiteenc,  i.  U,  31. 

Eagle,  a  public-house  sign,  is  iu 
liouour  of  Queen  Mary,  whose  badge  it 
was.  She  j)ut  it  on  the  dexter  side  of 
the  shield,  and  the  sun  on  the  sinister — 
a  couj  ugal  compliment  which  gave  great 
ott'ence  to  her  subjects. 

The  Golden  £iiyk' audttie Spread E<t{/le 
are  commemorative  of  the  crusades ; 
they  were  the  devices  of  the  emperors  of 
the  East. 

Eagle.  The  spread  eayle.  A  device 
of  the  old  Roman  or  Eastern  Emjnre, 
brought  over  by  the  crusaders. 

Eayle  of  the  doctors  of  France.  Pierre 
d'Ailly,  a  French  cardiual  and  great 
astrologer,  who  calculated  the  horoscope 
of  our  Lord,  and  maintained  that  the 
stars  foretold  the  great  deluge.  (1350- 
14L'5.) 

Eaylc  of  Brittany.  BertrandDugues- 
clin,  Constable  of  France.     (1320-1380.) 

Eagle  of  Meaiu:  [/«c>J.  Jacques  Bc- 
uigne  Bossuet,  Bishop  of  Meaux,  the 
grandest  and  most  sublime  of  the  pulpit 
orators  of  France.     (1627-1701.) 

Eagle.  The  tu-o-hcadcd eagle.  Austria, 
Prussia  (representing  Germany),  and 
Russia   have    two-headed    eagles,    one 


facing  to  the  right  and  the  other  to  the 
left.  The  one  facing  to  the  west  indi- 
cates direct  succession  from  Charle- 
magne, crowned  the  sixty-ninth  em- 
peror of  the  Romans  from  Augustus. 
In  Russia  it  was  Ivan  Basilovitz  who 
first  assumed  the  two-headed  eagle, 
when,  in  1472,  he  married  Sophia, 
daughter  of  Tliomas  Palasologus,  and 
niece  of  Constantine  XIV.,  the  last 
Emperor  of  Byzantium.  The  two  heads 
symbolise  the  Eastern  or  Byzantine 
Emjjii'e  and  the  Western  or  Roman 
Empire. 

Eagle-stones  or  Aetltes  (ienVr)!). 
Yellow  clay  ironstones  supposed  to  have 
sanative  and  magical  vii-tues.  They  are 
so  called  because  they  are  found  iu 
eagles'  nests.  EiMphanius  says,  "  In  the 
interior  of  Scythia  there  is  a  vallej'  inac- 
cessible to  man,  down  which  slaughtered 
lambs  are  thrown.  The  small  stones  at 
the  bottom  of  the  valley  adhere  to  these 
pieces  of  flesh,  and  eagles,  when  they 
cany  away  the  flesh  to  their  nests,  carry 
the  stones  with  it. ' '  The  story  of  Sindbad 
ia  the  Valley  of  Diamonds  will  occur  to 
tlie  readers  of  this  article  {Epiphanins  : 
De diiodeeini  geinniis,  etc.,  p.  30;  1743). 

It  is  said  that  without  these  stones 
eagles  cannot  hatch  their  eggs. 

Ear.     (Anglo-Saxon,  care.) 
A  deaf  ear.  One  that  refuses  to  listen ; 
as  if  it  heard  not. 

How  dotcji  Thine  ear.  Condescend  to 
hear  or  listen.     (Ps.  xxxi.  2.) 

By  ear.  To  sing  or  play  by  ear  means 
to  sing  or  play  withoat  knowledge  of  mu- 
sical notes,  depending  on  the  ear  only. 

Give  ear  to  .  .  .  Listen  to;  give  at- 
tention to. 

/  am  (ill  ear.     All  attention. 

"  I  was  all  oar, 
And  took  in  strains  tliat  migbt  create  a  soul 
Under  the  ribs  of  death." 

Milton :  Comus,  57J. 

ril  send  yon  off  with  a  flea  in  your  car. 
With  a  cuff  or  box  of  the  ear.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  domestic  animals,  who  are 
sometimes  greatly  annoyed  with  these 
"  tiny  tonneuts."  There  seems  also  to 
be  a  jouu  implied— ;;?(?«  and^c;'. 

V  The  French  equivalent  is  "  Mcttre 
la  puce  a  Vorcille,''''  to  give  one  a  good 
jobation. 

In  at  one  car,  and  out  at  the  other. 
Forgotten  as  soon  as  heard. 

No  ear.  A  bad  ear  for  musical  in- 
tonations ;  "  ear-blind  "  or  "  sound- 
bhnd." 

JJionysius's  Ear.  A  bell-shaped  cham- 
ber connected  by  au  undergroimd  passage 
with  the  king's  palace.    Its  object  was 


Ear 


400 


Earth 


that  the  tyrant  of  Syracuse  might  over- 
hear whutcvei- was  passiug  iu  the  ijrisou. 

Ear-finger.  The  little  finger,  which 
is  thrust  into  the  ear  if  anything  tickles  it. 

Ear-marked.  Marked  so  as  to  be 
recognised.  The  allusion  is  to  marking 
cattle  and  sheep  on  the  ear,  by  which 
they  may  be  readily  recognised. 

"The  incrrasc  [iif  tln'scwilil  cattle]  were  duly 
liraiuled  and  ear-marked  each  year."— iVmrtcoif/i 
Cmtunj  (May,  l,s;«),  p.  Tsit. 

"TLe  late  president  flialmaceda]  took  on  board 
a  large  guaiitity  of  silver,  which  had  been  ear- 
marked for  a  partirular  i>»\\<osc."—Xcirspai)cr 
pard'jruph,  Sept.  4,  l.syl. 

Ear-shot.  Within  enr-shot.  Within 
hearing.     The  allusion  is  jmliJable. 

Ears. 

About  one's  cars.  Causing  trouble. 
The  allusion  is  to  a  house  falling  on  one, 
or  a  hornet's  nest  buzzing  about  one's 
head. 

Bring  the  house  about  your  cars.  Set 
the  whole  family  against  you. 

H  If  your  ears  burn,  people  say  some 
one  is  iaikinc/  of  i/uu.  This  is  very  old,  for 
Pliny  says,  ' '  When  our  ears  do  glow 
and  tingle,  some  do  talk  of  us  in  our 
absence."  Shakespeare,  in  Much  Ado 
Abo/it  Nothing  (iii.  1),  makes  Beatrice 
say,  when  Ur'sula  and  Hero  had  been 
talking  of  her,  ' '  What  lire  is  in  mine 
ears  ?  ' '  Sir  Thomas  Browne  ascribes  this 
conceit  to  the  sui)erstitiou  of  guardian 
angels,  who  touch  the  right  ear  if  the 
talk  is  favourable,  and  the  left  if  other- 
wise. This  is  done  to  cheer  or  warn. 
"  One  ear  tingles  ;  some  there  be 
That  are  snarling  now  at  me." 

Merrick':  llesperides. 

little  pitchers  have  large  ears.  (See 
Pitchers.) 

Mi/ie  ears  hast  thou  bored.  Thou  hast 
accepted  me  as  thy  bond-slave  for  life. 
If  a  Hebrew  servant  declined  to  go  free 
after  six  years'  service,  the  master  was 
to  bring  liini  to  the  doorpost,  and  bore 
his  ear  through  with  an  awl,  in  token 
of  his  voluntary  servitude.  (Exod.  xxi. 
6.) 

Over  head  and  ears  (in  love,  in  debt, 
etc.).     Wholly,  desperately. 

"He  is  over  head  and  ears  in  love  with  the 
maid.  He  loves  her  lietter  than  his  own  life."— 
Terence  in  Eiiglinli. 

To  givers  one''s  ears  [to  obtain  an 
object].  To  make  a  considerable  sacri- 
fice for  the  purpose.  The  allusion  is  to 
the  ancient  practice  of  cutting  off  the 
ears  of  those  who  loved  their  own  of- 
fensive opinions  better  than  their  ears. 

To  have  itching  ears.  Loving  to  hear 
news  or  current  gossip,    (2  Tim.  iv.  3.) 


To  prick  up  one''s  cars.  To  listen 
attentively  to  something  not  expected, 
as  horses  prick  up  their  ears  at  a  sudden 
sound. 

"At  which,  like  unbacked  colts,  they  pricked 
their  ears." 

Shakespeare :  Tlte  Tempest,  iv.  1. 

To  set  people  together  bg  the  ears.  To 
create  ill-will  among  them  ;  to  set  them 
quarrelling  and  pulling  each  other's 
ears. 

"When  civil  dudgeon  first  grew  high, 
Ami  men  fell  ont,  they  knew  not  why  ; 
When  hard  wui-ds.  jealousies,  and  fears, 
Set  folks  together  hv  the  ears." 

llnthr :  Jiadiliras  (The  opening). 

To  tickle  the  cars.  To  gratify  the  ear 
either  by  pleasing  sounds  or  Mattering 
words. 

jralk  have  ears.  Things  uttered  in 
secret  get  rumoured  abroad.  Chaucer 
says,  '*  That  field  hath  eyen,  and  the 
wood  hath  ears."  {Cantcrburg  Talcs, 
V.  1,524.) 

Ears  to  ear  Bible  (The).  (1810.) 
"  Who  hath  ears  to  ear,  let  him  hear." 
(Matt.  xiii.  43.)     {See  Bible.) 

Earing.  Ploughing.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
erian,  to  plough  ;  Latin,  aro.) 

"Atid  yet  there  are  five  years,  in  the  wliidi 
there  shall  neither  be  earing  uor  harvest."— 
(jenesis  xlv.  6. 

"In  earing  time  and  in  harvest  thou  shalt 
rest."— ExodCts  xxxiv.  ^1. 

Earl  (Anglo-Saxon,  eorl,  a  man  of 
position,  in  opposition  to  ccorl,  a  churl, 
or  freeman  of  the  lowest  rank  ;  Danish, 
jar  I).  William  the  Conqueror  tried  to 
introduce  the  word  Count,  but  did  not 
succeed,  although  the  wife  of  an  earl  is 
still  called  a  countess. 

"The  sheriff  is  called  in  Latin  vice-comes,  as 
being  the  depitty  of  the  earl  or  comes,  to  whom 
the  custody  of  the  shire  is  said  to  have  been  c<im- 
mitted."  —  UlackntiDic:  Comvitvtaries,  book  i. 
chap.  ix.  p.  33SI. 

Earl  of  Mar's  Grey  Breeks.    The 

21st  Foot  are  so  called  because  they 
wore  greg  breeches  when  the  Earl  of  Mar 
was  their  colonel.     (1678-1686.) 

The  21st  Foot  is  now  called  the 
"Eoyal  Scots  Fusiliers." 

Early  to  Bed.  "  Early  to  bed  and 
early  to  rise,  makes  a  man  healthy, 
wealthy,  and  wise." 

"  Lever  a  cinq,  diner  a  neuf, 
Souper  a  cinn,  coucher  a  nenf. 
Font  vivre  d'ans  nonante  neuf." 
(The  older  of  the  two.) 
"  Lever  a  six,  diner  a  dix. 
Super  a  six.  coucher  a  dix. 
Fait  vivre  Ihounue  dix  fois  dix." 

Earth.  To  gather  strength  from  the 
earth.  The  reference  is  to  Antseos,  son 
of  Posei'don  and  Ge,  a  giant  and 
wrestler  of  Lib'ya  (Africa).  So  long  as 
he  touched  the  earth  his  strength  was 


Earthmen 


401 


Easter  Eggs 


iiTesistible.  Hercules,  knowiug  this, 
lifted  him  into  the  aii'  and  crushed  him 
to  death.  Near  the  town  of  Tingis,  in 
Maurita'uia,  is  a  hill  in  the  shape  of  a 
man,  and  called  The  hill  of  Anfrcos. 
Tradition  says  it  is  the  wrestler's  tomb. 
(.y;x'  Malegea.) 

Earthmen  (The).  Gnomes  and  fairies 
of  tlie  mines:  a  solemn  race,  wlio  never- 
theless can  laugh  most  heartily  and 
dance  most  merrily. 

"  We  [earthmen]  work  at  tlie  mines  fur  men  ; 
we  imt  tlie  ore  in  readiness  for  the  niiuers."— 
llctaut  and  like :  Titaiiia's  Fureirell. 

Earthquakes.  According  to  Indian 
mythology,  the  world  rests  on  the  head 
of  a  great  elephant,  and  when,  for  the 
sake  of  rest,  the  huge  monster  refreshes 
itself  by  moving  its  head,  an  earthquake 
is  produced.  The  elephant  is  called 
"  Muha-pudma." 

"  Havin,!,'  iienetrated  to  the  snutli,  they  saw  tlie 
great  elephant  '  Mnlia-iuidnia,'  eijiial  to  a  hu^'e 
mountain,  snstainin!.'  the  eartii  with  its  head."— 
The  Ramiiyaua  (section  xxxiii.). 

*,*  The  Lamas  say  that  the  earth  is 
placed  on  the  back  of  a  gigantic  frog, 
and  when  the  frog  stretches  its  limbs  or 
moves  its  head,  it  shakes  the  earth. 
Other  Eastern  mythologists  place  the 
earth  on  the  back  of  a  tortoise. 

Greek  and  Roman  mythologists  ascribe 
earthquakes  to  the  restlessness  of  the 
giants  which  Jupiter  buried  under  high 
mountains.  Thus  Virgil  (^Ei/eid,  iii.  578) 
ascribes  the  eruption  of  Etna  to  the  giant 
Enceiadus. 

Earwig.  A  corruption  of  the  Saxon 
ear-u'ic<ju  (ear-insect) ;  so  called  because 
the  hind  wings  resemble  in  shape  the 
human  ear.  The  word  has  engendered 
the  notion  that  these  insects  are  apt  to 
get  into  our  ears. 

An  cartciff,  metaphorically,  is  one  who 
whispers  into  our  ears  all  the  news  and 
scandal  going,  in  order  to  curry  favour  ; 
a  flatterer. 

"Court  earwigs  hanish  from  voiir  ears." 

Political  UiilluiU. 

Ease.  (Anglo-Saxon,  eath ;  Latin, 
oti-um.) 

At  eas^.    Without  pain  or  anxiety. 

Ill  at  ease.  L^neasy,  not  comfortable, 
anxious. 

Sta)i(l  at  ease  !  A  command  given  to 
soldiers  to  rest  for  a  time.  The  "  gentle- 
men stood  at  ease"  means  in  an  in- 
fonnal  manner. 

To  ease  one  of  his  money  or  purse.  To 
steal  it.    {See  Little  Ease.) 

Ease  {Chapel  of).     {See  Chapel.) 

Ease  Her !  A  command  given  on  a 
steamer  to    reduce    speed.      The.    next 

26 


order  is  generally  "  Stop  her  !  " — i.e.  the 
steamboat. 

East.  The  custom  of  inrnin/f  to  the 
east  when  the  creed  is  repeated  is  to  ex- 
press the  belief  that  Christ  is  the  Day- 
spring  and  Sun  of  Righteousness.  The 
altar  is  placed  at  the  east  end  of  the 
church  to  remind  us  of  Christ,  the  "Day- 
spring"  and  "Resurrection"  ;  and  per- 
sons are  buried  with  their  feet  to  the  east 
to  signify  that  they  died  iu  the  hope  of 
the   Resurrection. 

The  ancient  Greeks  always  buried  their 
dead  with  the  face  iipirards,  looking  to- 
wards heaven  ;  and  the  feet  turned  to  the 
east  or  the  rising  sun,  to  indicate  that 
the  deceased  was  on  his  way  to  Elj'sium, 
and  not  to  the  region  of  night  or  the 
inferno.  {Bioijeius  Laertius  :  Life  of 
Solon,  in  Greek.) 

East  Indies. 

(1)  Jle  came  nafefrom  the  East  Indir-f, 
and  u-as  drowned  in  the  Thames.  He 
encountered  many  dangers  of  great 
magnitude,  but  was  at  last  killed  where 
he  thought  himself  secure. 

(2)  'To  send  to  tlie  East  Indies  for 
Kentish  pippins.  To  go  round  about 
to  accomplish  a  very  simple  thing.  To 
crush  a  fly  on  a  wheel.  To  send  to  the 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  for  a  penny 
postage-stamp. 

Easter.  April  was  called  Ostermo- 
nath — the  month  of  the  Ost-end  wind 
(wind  from  the  east).  Easter  is  there- 
fore the  April  feast,  which  lasted  eight 
days.  Our  Easter  Sunday  must  be  be- 
tween March  21st  and  April  2.jth.  It  is 
regulated  by  the  jjaschal  moon,  or  flrst 
full  moon  between  the  vernal  equinox 
and  fourteen  days  afterwards.  (Teu- 
tonic, d.yA7r«  ;  Anglo-Saxon,  eastre.) 

Easter.  The  Saxon  goddess  of  the 
east,  whose  festival  was  held  iu  the 
spring. 

Easter-day  Sun.  It  was  formerly  a 
common  belief  that  the  suti  danced  on 
Easter  Day.  Sir  Thomas  Browaie  com- 
bats the  notion  in  his  I'ulijar  Errors. 

"  Bnt  oh,  she  dances  such  a  way, 
No  sun  niion  an  Easti'r  dav 
Is  half  so  Hue  a  sight." 

.Sic  John  Stickling. 

Easter  Eggs,  ov  Faseh  ee/gs,  are  sym- 
bolical of  creation,  or  the  re-creation  of 
spring.  The  practice  of  presenting  eggs 
to  our  friends  at  Easter  is  Magian  or 
Persian,  and  bears  allusion  to  the  mun- 
dane egg,  for  which  Ormuzd  and  Ahri- 
man  were  to  contend  till  the  consumma- 
tion of  all  things.     It  prevailed  not  only 


Eat 


402 


EbioniteS 


with  the  Persians,  but  also  among  the 
Jews,  Egyptians,  and  Hindus.  Cliris- 
tians  adopted  the  custom  to  symbolise 
the  resurrection,  and  they  colour  the 
eggs  red  in  allusion  to  the  blood  of  their 
redemption.  There  is  a  tradition,  also, 
that  the  world  was  "  hatched"  or  created 
at  Easter-tide. 

"  Bless,  liOid,  wchrsrccli  tlioo,  tliisTli.v  creatiiro 
ui  et;g!i,t\t.il  it  iii;iy  licioinc  a  «li(ik'?(iine  siistc- 
iiaiice  toTliy  fait  li  fill  sfr\:iiits.  eatiiiu'  it  in  tluiiik- 
liilness  ti>  Tlicc,(jii  incdiint  cif  the  lesiiiTection  uf 
ouv  Lttvd."—l'ui/c  I'aal  W:  llitital. 

Eat.  Ih  cat  humble  pic.  (.SV<- Humble 
Pie.) 

To  cat  one  out  of  house  and  home.  To 
eat  so  much  that  one  will  have  to  part 
with  house  and  home  in  order  to  pay 
for  it. 

To  cat  o)ie's  words.  To  refract  in  a 
humiliating  manner  ;  to  unsay  what  you 
liave  said ;  to  eat  your  own  lick. 

To  cat  the  mud  cow.  A  French 
phrase,  implj'ing  that  a  person  is  re- 
duced to  the  very  last  extremity,  and  is 
willing  to  eat  even  a  cow  tliat  has  died 
of  madness  ;  glad  to  eat  cat's  meat. 

'■  II  m.-insea  do  cette  clinso  incxiiriiiialilc  (in'im 
niiliclle  lie  la  vache  euitigoe."— ricfo)'  IJiiyu:  J.es 
MiKciKOIes. 

To  cat  the  led:  (See  Leek.") 
To  eat  nell.  To  have  a  good  apj)etite. 
But  "  It  cats  well"  means  tliat  what  is 
eaten  is  agreeable  or  flavorous.  To 
"  eat  badly  "  is  to  Ciit  without  appetite 
or  too  little  ;  not  pleasant  to  the  taste. 

Eat  not  the  Brain.  Tliis  is  the 
31st  Syniljol  in  the  Protreiitics  of  lam- 
blichus ;  and  the  ])rohibition  is  very 
similar  to  that  of  Moses  forbidding  the 
Jews  to  eat  the  blood,  because  the  blood 
is  the  life.  The  brain  is  the  seat  of  reason 
and  the  ruler  of  the  body.  It  was  also 
esteemed  the  Divine  part— at  least,  of 
man. 

Eat  not  the  Heart.  This  is  the 
30tli  Symbol  in  tlie  Protreptics  of  lam- 
blichus.  Pythagoras  forbade  judges 
and  priests  to  eat  animal  food  at  all, 
because  it  was  taking  away  life.  Other 
persons  he  did  not  wholly  forbid  this 
food,  but  he  restricted  them  from  eating 
the  brabi  (the  seat  of  wisdom)  and  the 
heart  (the  seat  of  life). 

Eat  One's  Heart  Out  (To).  To  fret 
or  worry  unreasonably ;  to  allow  one 
grief  or  one  vexation  to  predominate 
over  the  mind,  tincture  all  one's  ideas, 
and  absorb  all  other  emotions. 

Eats  his  Head  Off  {The  horse). 
Eats  more  than  he  is  worth,  or  the  work 
done  does  not  pay  for  the  cost  of  keeping. 


A  horse  which  stands  in  the  stable  nn- 
emjiloj-ed  eats  liis  head  off. 

Eating  One's  Terms.  To  be  study- 
ing for  the  bar.  Students  are  required 
to  dine  in  the  Hall  of  the  Inns  of  Couit 
at  least  three  times  m  each  of  the  twelve 
terms  before  they  are  "called"  [to  the 
bar].     (.SVf  Doctors' Commons.) 

Eating  Together.  To  eat  together 
in  the  East  was  at  one  time  a  sure  pkdge 
of  jirotection.  A  I'ersian  nobleman  was 
once  sitting  in  his  garden,  when  a  man 
prostrated  himself  licfon^  him,  and  inj- 
plored  protection  from  the  rabble.  Tlie 
nobleman  gave  him  the  remainder  of  a 
peach  which  he  was  eating,  anil  when 
the  incensed  multitude  arrived,  and  de- 
clared that  the  man  had  slain  the  only 
son  of  the  nobleman,  the  heart-broken 
father  rejdied,  '"  We  have  eaten  together; 
go  in  poace,"  and  would  not  allow  the 
murderer  to  be  i)unished. 

Eau  de  Cologne.  A  perfumed  sjiirit, 
prcjcired  at  Cologne.  Tlie  most  famous 
maker  was  Jean  Maria  Fari'na. 

Eau  de  Vie.  Thandy.  A  French 
translation  of  tlic  Latin  a(iua  ritcc  (water 
of  lil'(').  'i'liis  is  a  curious  perversion  of 
the  Spanish  ae/jua  di  rite  (water  or  juice 
of  the  vine),  rendered  by  the  monks 
into  atjua  ritw  instead  of  U'lua  ritis,  and 
confounding  the  juice  of  the  grai)e  with 
the  alchemists'  eli.\ir  of  life.  The  same 
error  is  periietuated  in  the  Italian  aei/iia 
rite  ;  the  Scotch  leht.shji,  which  is  the 
Celtic  iiisc-fi/f;  and  the  Irish  nsqiie- 
hau(jh,  which  is  the  Gaelic  and  Irish 
uixllic-lratha.     (Sic  AqI'A  Yitje.) 

Eaves-dropper.  One  who  listens 
stealthilj'  to  conversation.  The  deriva- 
tion of  the  term  is  not  usually  imder- 
stood.  The  owners  of  private  estates  in 
Saxon  times  were  not  allowed  to  culti- 
vate to  the  extremity  of  their  jjossessions, 
but  were  obliged  to  leave  a  space  for 
eaves.  This  space  was  called  the  >/fes- 
drijpe  (eaves- drip).  An  eaves-dropper 
is  one  who  places  himself  in  the  eaves- 
drip  to  overhear  what  is  said  in  the 
adjacent  house  or  field. 
"  I'liilei'  oiir  tents  I'll  play  tlie  caves-driipiicf, 
To  bear  if  anv  mean  to  sUvink  from  me." 

Sliaket'peure :  Richard  III.,  \.  X 

Eb'ionism.  The  doctrine  that  the 
poor  only  shall  be  saved.  Ebion,  plural 
cbionim  (poor). 

"  At  tbe  end  of  the  second  century  the  Eliionites 
were  treated  as  heretics,  and  a  pretended  leader 
(Ehion)was  invented  by  Tertullian  to  explain  the 
name."— iJtiidu :  Life  of  Jesus,  chap.  xi. 

Eb'ionites  (4  syl.).  A  religious  sect 
of  the  fii'st  and  second   centuries,  who 


Eblis 


403 


Echo 


maiutaiued  that  Jesus  Christ  was  merely 
au  inspired  messeuger,  the  greatest  of  all 
prophets,  but  yet  a  mau  and  a  man  only, 
without  any  existence  before  His  birth 
in  Bethlehem.     (<SVe  above.) 

Eblis  or  Ibleis.  A  jinu,  and  the 
ruler  of  the  evil  genii,  or  fallen  angels. 
Before  his  fall  he  was  called  Azaz'el  or 
Hha'ris.  When  Adam  was  created,  God 
commanded  all  the  angels  to  worship  him ; 
but  EbUs  replied,  "  Me  thou  hast  created 
of  smokeless  fire,  and  shall  I  reverence 
a  creature  made  of  dust?"  God  was 
very  angry  at  this  insolent  answer,  and 
turned  the  disobedient  fay  into  a  Shey- 
tan  (devil),  and  he  became  the  father  of 
devils. 

"His  majesty  was  n  liundn'cl  feet  in  Iii'l'-'lit  ; 
liis  sl<iu,  stripid  willi  icd,  was  iii\t-rcd  witli 
small  scales,  wliic'U  made  it  Klisicii  like  anunm- ; 
Uis  hair  was  sn  l.ni!,'  and  cnrl.v  a  snaki'  niiwlit 
liave  lost  its  way  in  it  ;  liis  Hat  nnscwas  laiMi-oJ 
with  a  ring  uf  ad'niiralilc  wcn'kniansliiii ;  his  snjall 
eyes  assumed  all  tlic  iinsmal  ic- culnms  ;  his  ears, 
which  resemhled  thdM'  nt  an  clrphaiit,  llaiM't'd  cm 
his  shouldei'S  ;  and  Ins  iail,siM\  fret  Innu-.tiT- 
minatert  in  a  hooked  (  iaw.  '    ( 'n'(in,  uiiiuiin',  li.  m. 

"When  he  said  nnio  llie  an^'els,  ■W.jishiii 
Adam,'  all  worshiiaied  him  excei't  Kl)lis.  — ,11 
KiTuii,  ii. 

Eb'ony.  GotVf;  'image  ihmc  in  clmnij. 
Negroes.  Thomas  Fuller  gave  birth  ito 
tliis  expression. 

Ebu'dae.  The  Heb'rides.  {Ariosfo  : 
Oiiaiido  lu/rioso.) 

Ecce  Homo.  A  painting  by  Cor- 
regg'io  of  our  Lord  crowned  with  thorns 
and  bound  with  rojies,  as  He  was  sliovvu 
to  the  peojile  by  Pilate,  who  stiid  to 
them,  "iVct'  /io»w  .' "  (Behold  the  man  I) 
(John  xix.  0.) 

Other  conceptions  of  this  subject, 
either  painted  or  engraved,  are  by  Al- 
bert Durer  (1471-1;328),  Tititm  (U77- 
1570),  Cigoli  (l,359-lGi;i),  Gaido  (1074- 
1642),  Albani  (1078-1600),  Vaudyck 
(1599-1641),  Rembrandt  (1608-1669), 
Poussin  (1613-1675),  and  some  others. 

Ecce  Signum.  See  it,  iu  proof; 
Behold  the  proof ! 

"  I  am  eight  times  thrust  through  the  doublet, 
four  through  the  hose;  my  buckler  cut  through 
and  through  ;  njy  sword  hacked  like  a  handsaw— 
ecce  signum  !  ■'—,b7inA,e6i)c«ce;   1  lltiiry  IV.,  li.  4. 

Eccen'tric  means  deviating  from  the 
centre  ;  hence  irregular,  not  according 
to  rule.  Originally  applied  to  those 
planets  which  wander  round  the  earth, 
like  comets,  the  earth  not  being  in  the 
centre  of  their  orbit.  (Latin,  ex  centrum.) 

Eccentric  Sensation.  The  sensa- 
tions of  the  brain  transferred  to  objects 
without.  For  example  :  we  see  a  tree  ; 
this  tree  is  a  reflection  of  the  tree  ou  the 


retina  transferred  to  the  brain ;  but  the 
tree  seen  is  the  tree  without,  not  the  tree 
iu  the  brtiiii.  This  transferred  jJercep- 
tiou  is  called  au  "  Eccentric  Sensation." 

Eccentric  Theory  {Tlie)  in  astro- 
nomy. A  theory  which  uses  au  eccen- 
tric instead  of  an  epicycle  iu  accounting 
for  the  sun's  motion. 

Ecclesias'tes  (5  syl.).  One  of  the 
books  in  the  Old  Testament,  arranged 
next  to  Proverbs,  generally  ascribed  to 
Solomon,  because  it  says  (verse  1),  "  The 
words  of  the  Preacher,  the  son  of  David, 
king  in  Jerusalem."  This  seems,  so  far, 
to  confirm  the  authorship  to  Solomon ; 
but  verse  12  says,  "  I,  the  Preacher,  ivas 
king  over  Israel,  in  Jerusalem,"  which 
seems  to  intimate  that  he  was  once  a 
king,  but  was  so  no  longer.  If  so,  it 
could  not  be  Solomon,  who  died  king  of 
the  twelve  tribes.  "Sou  of  David" 
often  means  a  descendant  of  David, 
Christ  himself  being  so  called. 

Ecclesias'tical.  The  father  of  eccle- 
siastical historg.  Euse'bius  of  Ctcsare'a 
(264-340). 

Ecclesias'ticus  is  so  called,  not 
because  the  writer  was  a  priest,  but 
because  the  book  (in  the  opinion  of  the 
fathers)  was  the  chief  of  the  apocryjihal 
books,  designated  by  them  ]url<  skis' ticl 
Lihri  (books  to  be  read  iu  chiu'ches),  to 
distinguish  them  from  the  canonical 
Scriptures. 

Echidna  {E-kid'-na).  Half-woman, 
half-serpent.  She  was  mother  of  the 
Chima'ra,  the  many-headed  dog  Orthos, 
the  hundred  -  heacled  dragon  of  the 
Hesperides,  the  Col'chian  dragon,  the 
Sphinx,  Cer'beros,  Scylla,  the  Gorgons, 
the  LernaBan  hydra,  the  vulture  that 
gnawed  away  the  liver  of  Promc'theus, 
and  the  Nem'ean  lion.  {Hesiod.) 
"  [She]  seemed  a  woman  to  the  waist,  and  fair 

But  ended  foul  in  many  a  scaly  fold, 

Voluminous  and  vast." 

Milton:  Paradise  Lost,  book  ii.  C50— 2. 

Echo.  The  Romans  say  that  Echo 
was  a  nymph  iu  love  with  Narcissus,  but 
her  love  not  being  returned,  she  pined 
away  till  only  her  voice  i-emaincd.  We 
use  the  word  to  injply  similarity  of 
sentiment:  as  I'oii  echo  mg  ideas;  That 
is  an  echo  to  my  opinion. 
"  Sweet  Echo,  sweetest  nymph,  that  liv'st  itnseen 
Within  thy  airy  shell, 

By  slow  Meiinder's  margent  green.  .  .  . 

Canst  thou  not  tell  me  of  a  gentle  pair 

That  likest  thy  Narcissus  are  ?" 

Milton :  Comus,  L'30,  etc. 

Echo.  (Gr.,  eJco  ;  verb,  elceo,  to  sound.) 

To  applaud  to  the  echo.    To  applaud 

so  loudly  as  to  produce  au  echo. 


Eckhardt 


40i 


Economy 


Eck'hardt.  A  faithful  Eclchardt, 
ii]ii)  iciinuih  cvcri/oiit'  (Gennau).  Eck- 
lianlt,  in  (ieniuui  Icgeuds,  appears  on 
tlie  eveuiiig  of  Mauudy  Thursday  to 
warn  all  persous  to  go  home,  that  they 
may  uot  be  injured  by  the  headless 
bodies  and  two-legged  horses  which 
traverse  the  streets  on  that  uight. 

Eclcc'tics.  Ancient  philosophers,  who 
selcrtctl  wliat  they  thought  best  iu  all 
other  systems,  and  made  a  patchwork 
therefrom.  There  is  the  eclectic  school 
of  painters,  of  which  Paul  Delaroche 
was  tlic  founder  and  best  exponent ;  the 
eclectic  school  of  modern  philosophy, 
founded  by  Victor  Cousin ;  the  eclectic 
school  of  ai'chitecture ;  and  so  on. 
(Greek,  rk-lcffo,  to  pick  out.) 

Eclectics  or  Modern  I'latonists.  A 
Christian  sect  which  arose  iu  the  second 
century.  They  professed  to  make  truth 
their  sole  object  of  inquiiy,  and  adopted 
from  existing  sj-stems  whatever,  iu  their 
opinion,  was  true.  They  were  called 
Piatouists  because  they  adopted  Plato's 
notions  about  God  and  the  human  soul. 

Eclipses  Avcre  considered  by  the 
ancient  (i reeks  and  Romans  as  bad 
omens.  Niclas,  the  Athenian  general, 
was  so  terrified  by  an  eclipse  of  the 
moon,  that  lie  durst  uot  defend  himself 
from  the  Syraeusans  ;  in  consequence  of 
which  his  whole  army  was  cut  to  pieces, 
and  he  himself  was  put  to  death. 

The  liomans  would  never  hold  a  public 
assembly  during  an  eclipse.  Some  of 
their  poets  feign  that  an  eclipse  of  the 
moon  is  because  she  is  gone  on  a  visit  to 
Endymion. 

A  very  general  notion  was  and  still  is 
among  barbarians  that  the  sun  or  moon 
has  been  devoured  by  some  monster,  and 
hence  the  custom  of  beating  drums  and 
brass  kettles  to  scare  away  the  monster. 

The  Chinese,  Laps,  Persians,  and  some 
others  call  the  evil  beast  a  dragon.  The 
East  Indians  say  it  is  a  black  griffin. 

The  notion  of  the  ancient  Mexicans 
was  that  eclipses  were  caused  by  sun 
and  moon  quarrels,  in  which  one  of  the 
litigants  is  beaten  black  and  blue. 

Eclip'tic.  The  path  apparently  de- 
scribed by  the  sun  in  his  annual  course 
through  the  heavens.  Eclipses  happen 
only  when  the  moon  is  in  or  near  the 
same  jilane. 

Eclogue  (2  syl.).  Pastoral  poetry 
not  expressed  in  rustic  speech,  but  in 
the  most  refined  and  elegant  of  which  the 
language  is  capable.  (Greek,  meaning 
"  elegant  extracts,"  "  select  poetry.") 


Ecnc'phia.     A    sort    of    hurricane, 

similar  to  the  Typhon. 

"  Till-  ciriliiiK  Tyiiliiiii,  wliiiloil   fruiii    iMiiiit    to 
l"iilU,  .  .  . 
And  (lire  ICciK'l'lii.-i  ri'i'-'ii.'' 

Thtimsiin :  Summer. 

Ecole  des  Femmes.  Moliere  bor- 
rowed the  i)lot  of  this  comedy  from  the 
novelletti  of  Ser  Gioraitiri,  comi)Osed  in 
the  fourteenth  century. 

Econ'omy  means  the  rules  or  plans 
adu2)ted  in  managing  one's  own  liouse. 
As  we  generally  prevent  extravagant 
waste,  and  make  the  most  of  our  means 
in  our  own  homos,  so  the  careful  expen- 
diture of  money  in  general  is  termed 
house-management.  The  word  is  ap- 
I)lied  to  time  and  several  other  things, 
as  well  as  money.  (Greek,  oi/iOn  uunios, 
liouse-law.) 

Aiiiiuul  ecouotiii/.  The  system,  laws, 
and  management  whereby  the  greatest 
amount  of  good  accrues  to  the  animal 
kingdom. 

•' .\iiini;il  .  .  .  ccdHiiiiiy,  accdiiliiiK  to  wliicli 
;iiiini;il  .-iir.-iirs  arc  ici»iilateU  iiiui  Uisiiosi'il."— 
.SAnyVrsf/zi;;/ ;  Cluiiactiri.ytics. 

I'oliticul  ccuHuiii!/.  The  princij^les 
whereby  the  revenues  and  resources  of 
a  nation  are  made  the  most  of.  Thus: 
Is  Free  Trade  good  or  bad  economy  i* 
Ai'ticlcs  are  cheaper,  and  therefore  the 
buying  value  of  money  is  increased ; 
but,  on  the  otlier  hand,  competition  is  in- 
creased, and  therefore  wages  are  lowered. 

]'e<ietul>le  ecuiKJiinj.  The  system,  laws, 
and  management,  whereby  the  greatest 
amount  of  good  is  to  be  derived  by  the 
vegetable  kingdom. 

The  Christ iuii  Juoiionii/.  Tlie  religious 
system  based  on  the  New  Testament. 
Tliat  is,  what  is  the  best  economy  of 
man,  taking  into  account  the  life  that 
now  is,  and  that  which  is  to  come  'r'  The 
answer  is  thus  summed  up  by  Christ : 
''What  is  a  man  profited  though  he  gain 
the  whole  world  and  lose  his  own  soul  ? 
For  what  should  a  man  give  in  exchange 
for  his  soul!'" 

7'he  3Iosaie  ecouonuj.  The  religious 
system  taught  by  God :  tliat  is,  the  sj-s- 
tcni  whereby  man  obtains  the  greatest 
amount  of  value  for  his  conduct,  whether 
by  serving  God  or  living  for  this  life 
only.  Also  called  "The  Jewish  Eco- 
nomy." 

Economy  is  a  great  income.  "  No 
alchemy  like  frugality."  "Ever  save, 
ever  have."  The  following  also  are  to 
a  similar  effect :  "  A  pin  a  daj^  is  a  groat 
a  year."  "  Take  care  of  the  pence,  and 
the  i^ounds  will  take  care  of  themselves." 
"  Many  a  little  makes  a  mickle."  "Frae 
saving,    comes    having."       "A    penny 


Economy  of  Nature 


40c 


Ed^e 


saved  is  a  penny  gained."  "  Little  and 
often  fills  the  purse." 

Latin  :  "  Nou  intelUgunt  homines 
quam  magnum  vectlgal  sit  parsimonia ' ' 
(Cicero).  "Sera  in  fundo  est  parsi- 
monia" (Sf)iec(i). 

French  :  "PlusieursPeu  font  un  Beau- 
coup."  "  Deuier  sur  denier  bitit  la 
maison." 

.  German  :  "Die  sparsamkeit  ist  ein 
grosser  zyll"  (Parsimony  is  a  great 
income). 

Economy  of  Nature  (T/<e).  The 
laws  of  nature,  whereby  the  greatest 
amount  of  good  is  obtained  ;  or  the  laws 
by  which  the  affairs  of  nature  are  regu- 
lated and  disposed. 

Ecorcheurs.  Freebooters  of  the 
twelfth  century,  in  France ;  so  called 
because  they  stripped  their  victims  of 
everything,  even  their  clothes.  (French, 
ecorchcr,  to  flay.) 

Ec'stasy  (Greek  tK-<TTain^,  from 
ef-iartj/ii,  to  stand  out  of  [the  body  or 
mind]).  To  stand  out  of  one's  mind  is 
to  lose  one's  wits,  to  be  beside  oneself. 
To  stand  out  of  one's  body  is  to  be  dis- 
embodied. St.  Paul  refers  to  this  when 
he  says  he  was  caught  up  to  the  third 
heaven  and  heard  unutterable  words, 
"whether  in  the  body,  or  out  of  the 
body,  I  cannot  tell"  (2  Cor.  xii.  2-4). 
St.  John  also  saj's  he  was  "in  the 
spiiit  " — i.e.  in  an  ecstasy — when  he  saw 
the  apocalyptic  vision  (i.  10).  The 
belief  that  the  soul  left  the  body  at 
times  was  voi-y  general  in  former  ages, 
and  is  still  the  belief  of  many.  (<SVc 
Ecstatic!.) 

Ecstatic  Doctor  [The).  Jean  de 
Kuysbrock,  the  mystic  (1294-1381). 

Ecstatic!  {TJie).  A  class  of  diviners 
among  the  ancient  Greeks,  who  used  to 
lie  in  trances,  and  when  they  came  to 
themselves  gave  strange  accounts  of 
what  they  had  seen  while  they  were  "  out 
of  the  body."     (Greek,  ex-istvmi.) 

Ector  ('S'()-)-  The  foster-father  of 
King  Ai'thur. 

Edda.  There  are  two  religious  codes, 
so  called,  containing  the  ancient  Scandi- 
navian mythology.  One  is  in  verse,  com- 
posed in  Iceland  in  the  eleventh  cen- 
tury by  Sasmimd  Sigfusson,  the  Sage  ; 
and  the  other  in  prose,  compiled  a  cen- 
tury later  by  Snorri  Sturleson,  who 
WTote  a  commentary  on  the  first  edda. 
The  poetical  edda  contains  an  account 
of  creation,  the  history  of  Odin,  Thor, 
Freijr,  Jialder,  etc.,  etc.    The  prose  one 


contains  the  exploits  of  such  conquerors 
as  Vcelsune/,  Sigurd,  Attle,  etc.,  and  is 
divided  into  several  parts.  The  first 
part  contains  historical  and  mj-thological 
traditions ;  the  second  a  long  poetical 
vocabulary ;  and  the  third  Scaudina\nan 
prosody,  or  the  modes  of  composition 
adopted  by  the  ancient  Skalds.  The 
poetical  compilation  is  generally  called 
S(C?n/n/d\i  Edda,  and  the  prose  one 
Snorri's  Edda. 

Eden.  Paradise,  tlie  country  and 
garden  in  which  Adam  and  Eve  were 
placed  by  God  (Gen.  ii.  15).  The  word 
means  delight,  pleasure. 

Eden  HaU.  The  luck  of  Eden  Hall. 
An  old  painted  drinkiug-glass,  supposed 
to  be  sacred.  The  tale  is  that  the  butler 
once  went  to  draw  water  from  St.  Cuth- 
bert's  Well,  in  Eden  Hall  garden,  Cum- 
berland, when  the  fairies  left  their  di-iuk- 
ing-glass  on  the  well  to  enjoy  a  little  fun. 
The  butler  seized  the  glass,  and  ran  off 
with  it.  The  goblet  is  preserved  in  the 
family  of  Sir  Christopher  Musgrave. 
Longfellow  wrote  a  poem  on  the  subject. 
The  superstition  is — 

"  If  tliat  i-'lass  eitlier  break  or  fall. 
Farewell  the  luck  of  Eden  Hall."' 

'.*  Readers  of  the  Golden  Butterjlg,  by 
Besant  and  Rice,  will  remember  how  the 
luck  of  Gilead  P.  Beck, was  associated 
with  a  golden  butterfly. 

Edenburgh,  i.e.  Edwin's  burgh.  The 
fort  built  by  Edwin,  king  of  Northura- 
bi-ia  (616-033).  Dun  Eden  or  Dunedin, 
is  a  Saxon  form  ;  Edina  a  poetical  one. 

Edgar  or  Edgar' do.  Master  of 
Ravcuswood,  in  love  with  Lucy  Ashton 
{Lucia  di  Lauuturinoor).  Wliile  absent 
in  France  on  an  important  embassy,  the 
lady  is  led  to  believe  that  her  lover  has 
proved  faithless  to  her,  and  in  the  tor- 
rent of  her  indignation  consents  to  many 
the  laird  of  Eucklaw,  but  stabs  him  on 
the  wedding-night,  goes  mad,  and  dies. 
In  the  opera  Edgardo  stabs  himself 
also  ;  but  in  the  novel  he  is  lost  in  the 
quiclcsands  at  Kelpies-Flow,  in  accord- 
ance with  an  ancient  pro^jhecy.  {Doni- 
zett^s  opera  of  "  Lucia  di  Lammer- 
moor  "  ;  Sir  iValter  Scott's  "  Bride  of 
Laniiiicr?noor.'" 

Edge.     (Anglo-Saxon,  ecg.) 
J^'ot  to  put  too  file  cm  edge  upon  it.  Not 
to  mince  the  matter  ;  to  speak  plainly. 


To  be  on  edge.     To  be  very  eager  or 
impatient. 

To  set  one's  teeth  on  edge.     To  give  ona 


Edge  Away 


406 


Edyrn 


the  horrors  ;  to  induce  a  tingling  or  grat- 
ing sensation  in  cue's  teeth,  as  from  acids 
or  harsh  noises. 

"  I  had  ratliev  lipara  brazen  canstick  turned, 
Or  a  dry  wlieol  Knilo  (in  ;  lie  axlc-Irce  ; 
And  that  wijiild  set  my  teeth  ll(lthlIl^' (in  odgo, 
JJdthiiig  so  nmch  .-is  niiiieinu'  imelry." 

SlKilccujicarc  :  1  IIiioi/  IV.,  iii.  1. 

Edge  Away  (To).  To  move  away- 
very  gradually,  as  a  ship  moves  from  the 
edge  of  the  shore.  Often  called  er/ff. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  ccff,  an  edge  ;  ccg-dij\  is 
a  sea  cliff.) 

Edge-bone,    {^rc  Aitch-bone.) 

Edge  on.     (-SVv  Eoa  on.) 

Edge  of  the  Sword. 

To  full  hij  the  ('(hjc  of  the  sword.  By 
a  cut  from  tlic  sword  ;  in  battle. 

Edgewise.  One  cainiot  gel  in  a  tcord 
edgcuisf.  The  [conversation  is  so  en- 
grossed by  others]  that  tlierc  is  no  getting 
in  a  word. 

Edged  Tools.  It  ix  daiir/eroiis  fo 
plan  H'itli  edijcd  tools.  It  is  dangerous  to 
tamjjer  with  mischief  or  anjthing  that 
may  bring  you  into  trouble. 

Edhilin'gi.  The  aristocratic  class 
among  the  Anglo-Saxons ;  the  second 
rank  were  tenned  the  J-'rifiiigi ;  and  the 
third  the  Lazzi.  (Anglo-Saxon,  cedele 
or  edele,  noble ;  frec-lhig,  free-born. 
Eicardo  says  of  the  tlurd  class,  tliey 
were  the  "  unwilling  to  work,  the  dull  " 
■ — quos  hodie  lazic  di'cimus.) 

Edict  of  Mil'an.  Proclaimed  by 
Constantine,  after  the  conquest  of  Italy 
(313),  to  secure  to  Christians  the  resti- 
tution of  their  civil  and  religious  rights. 

Edict  of  Nantes.  An  edict  pub- 
lished by  Henri  IV.  of  France,  granting 
toleration  to  liis  Protestant  subjects.  It 
was  published  from  Nantes  in  1598, 
but  I'cpealed  in  1 685  by  Louis  XIV. 

-  Edie  Ochiltree.  In  Scott's  Anti- 
quary. 

"Charles  II.  would  lie  as  sceptical  as  Edie 
Ochiltree  about  the  existence  of  circles  and 
avenues,  altar-stones  and  cromlechs."  — A'ni(/ft<; 
Old  England. 

Ed'ify  is  to  build  a  house  (Latin, 
(edes-faeio)  ;  morally,  to  build  instruction 
in  the  mind  methoctically,  like  an  archi- 
tect; The  Scripture  word  edification 
means  the  building-up  of  "believers" 
in  grace  and  holiness.  St.  Paul  says, 
"Ye  are  God's  building,"  and  elsewhere 
he  carries  out  the  figure  more  fully, 
saying— 

"All  the  building  [or  body  of  Christians],  fitly 
framed  together,  groweth  unto  a  holy  temiile  in 
the  Lord.  — Eph.  il.  21, 


E'diles  (2  syl.).  Roman  officers  who 
had  charge  of  the  streets,  bridges,  aque- 
ducts, temples,  and  city  buildings  gene- 
rally. We  call  our  surveyors  citij  edilcs 
sometimes.     (Latin,  cedes,  a  liousc.) 

E'dith,  called  the  Maid  of  Lorn 
(Argyleshire),  was  about  to  be  married 
to  Lord  Ronald,  when  Robert,  Edward, 
and  Isabel  Bruce,  tempest-tossed,  sought 
shelter  at  the  castle.  Editli's  brotlier 
recognised  the  Bruce,  and  being  in  the 
English  interest,  a  quarrel  ensued,  in 
the  course  of  which  the  abbot  arrived, 
but  refused  to  marry  the  bridal  pair 
amidst  such  discoi'd.  Edith  fled,  and, 
assuming  the  character  of  a  i)ago,  passed 
through  divers  adventures.  At  length 
Robert  Bruce  won  the  battle  of  Ban- 
nockburu,  and  when  "jieaco  was  restored 
Ronald  married  the  "Maid  of  Lorn." 
{Seott :  Lord  of  the  LsJes.) 

Ednam,  in  Roxburghshire,  near  the 
Tweed,  where  Thomson,  tlie  author  of 
The  Seasons,  was  born, 

"  The  Tweed,  pure  nnrent-slrenm. 
Whose  pasldi-aj  baiikh  (list  heard  my  Doric  teed." 
Autumn  ^H>^!^-'^). 

Edo'be  (2  syl.).  Edobe  cottages  are 
those  made  of  sun-dried  bricks,  like 
the  buildings  of  ancient  Egypt.  (//'. 
Jlcptcorih  J)iron  :  New  America,  i.  10.) 

V  The  present  and  proper  fomi  of 
this  word  is  Adobe  (Si)anish,  adobar, 
plaster). 

"They  make  adolies,  or  sun-dried  liricks,  by 
mix  ills,'  ashes  and  earth  with  water,  which  is  I  hen 
moulded  into  larse  blocks  and  dr  ed  in  the  suu." 
—Ikincroft :  Xutirc  Jiaccs,  vol.  i.  p.  a.'ij. 

Edward.  I'd  ward  the  Confessor'' s 
sword.  Curta'na  {the  cutter),  a  blunt 
sword  of  state,  emblematical  of  mercy. 

The  Cheralier  Prince  Charles  L^dirard. 
The  Young  Pretender.  Introduced  by 
Sir  Walter  Scott  in  licdgauntlet,  first  as 
' '  Father  Buonaveutura, ' '  and  afterwards 
as  Pretender  to  the  Crown,  Again  in 
Warerleg. 

Ed'widge.  Wife  of  William  Teli, 
(JtossinCs  opera  of  Guglichno  Tell.) 

Edwin.  The  hero  of  Beattie's  Min- 
strel. 

"  And  yet  poor  Edwin  was  no  vulgar  boy  ; 
Deep  thought  oft  seemed  to  fix  his  infant  eye, 
Dainties  he  heeded  not,  nor  gaud,  nor  toy. 
Save  one  short  pipe  of  rudest  minstrelsy  ; 
Silent  when  glad  ;  affect iouate.  tlmugli  shy. 
And  now  his  look  was  most  demurely  sad  ; 
And  now  he   laughed  aloud,    yet  none  knew 

why. 
The  neitrhbours  Stared  and  sighed,  yet  blessed 
the  lad  : 
Some  deemed   him    wondrous  wise,   and    some 
believed  him  mad."  Canto  i.  Hi. 

Ed'yrn.  Son  of  Nudd ;  called  the 
"  Sparrowhawk."    He  ousted  the  Earl 


Bel 


407 


Egg 


of  Yn'iol  from  his  earldom,  and  tried  to 
win  E'nid,  the  eai'l's  daughter,  but  fail- 
ing in  this,  became  the  evil  genius  of 
the  gentle  earl.  Being  overtlirown  in 
a  tournament  by  Prince  Geraiut',  he 
was  sent  to  the  court  of  King  Arthur, 
■where  his  whole  nature  was  completely 
changed,  and  "  subdued  to  that  gentle- 
ness Avhich,  when  it  weds  with  manliood, 
makes  a  man."  {Idjlh  of  the  King ; 
Enid.) 

Eel.  A  nickname  for  a  New  Eng- 
landcr. 

"Tlie  eels  of  New  Eii'-rlMnd  and  tlie  cDin- 
crackers  of  Virginiii."— //(i/iiHrto/i;  Clud^nuikcr. 

Eel.  A  salt  eel.  A  rope's  end.  used 
for  scourging.  At  one  time  eelskins 
were  used  for  whips. 

"  Witli  my  s:ilt  eolo,  \voiit  ilowii  in  tlie  vaii'T, 
and  there  pot  my  buy  and  did  beat  him."— i'lj/j/s' 
Diary  (Aiuil  -4tli). 

EeL     (Anglo-Saxon,  wl.) 

Holding  the  ccl  of  science  by  the  tail. 
That  is,  to  have  an  ephemeral  smattering 
of  a  subject,  which  sli])s  from  the  memory 
as  an  eel  would  wriggle  out  of  one's 
fingers  if  held  by  the  tail. 

"Cauda  tenes  anifnillani,  in  ens  apte  diretnr, 
quilms  res  est  mm  lioniinilmg  hibrica  tide,  fer- 
11idis<iue,  aut  i|vii  rem  fu^'itivam  atqiie  incertam 
aliiinam  lialient,  iinam  tueri  din  nou  possiut."— 
Erasmus:  AchtUl<l,\^.',i-^.    (.Iti-U) 

To  get  used  to  it,  as  a  skinned  eel,  i.e. 
as  an  eel  is  used  to  being  skinned.  It 
may  be  unpleasant  at  lirst,  but  habit 
will  get  the  bettor  of  such  annoj-ance. 

"  It  ain't  always  ideasant  to  turn  (int  for  mnrn- 
intr  chain'l,  is  it,  (iiu'-lami.K?  Butit'sjust  like  the 
eels  with  ihcir  st;iiniin>;  :  it  K'les  a'-,'aiiist  ili-; 
{.'fain  at  Ih'sl.  hnt  vnn  sunn  Ki't  nsrd  lo  ii.'  — 
Vuihbcrt  Unit:  [llrudhi/] :   Vtrilaiil  Grccii,  chap.  vii. 

To  skin  an  ccl  hg  the  tail  is  to  do  things 
the  wrong  w:iy. 

Eelkhance  Tables.  The  celebrated 
calculation  of  Ntizir'  u  Dieu,  the  Persian 
astronomer,  grandson  of  Zeugliis  Khan, 
brought  out  in  the  middle  of  the  thir- 
teenth century. 

Effen'di.  A  Turkish  title,  about  equal 
to  oiu-  "squire,"  given  to  emirs,  men  of 
learning,  and  the  high  priests  of  mosques. 
The  title  is  added  after  the  name,  as  Ali 
effcndi  (Ali  Esquire). 

Effigy.  To  bum  or  hang  one  in  effigy. 
To  burn  or  hang  the  representation  of  a 
person,  instead  of  the  person  himself, 
in  order  to  show  joopultxr  hatred,  dislike, 
or  contempt.  The  custom  comes  from 
France,  whore  the  public  executioner 
used  to  hang  the  effigy  of  the  criminal 
when  the  crinrinal  himself  could  not  be 
found, 


Effrontery.  Out-facing,  rude  per- 
sistence, and  overbearing  impudence. 
(Latin,  cf-frons,  i.e.  cx-frons,  out-face.) 

Egalite.  Philippe,  Due  d'Ork'ans, 
ftither  of  Louis-Philippe,  King  of  the 
French,  was  so  called  because  he  sided 
with  the  revolutionary  party,  whose 
motto  was  "  Liberty,  frtiteruity,  and 
equality."  Philippe  Egalite  was  guillo- 
tined in  1793. 

Ege'ria.  The  nymph  who  instructed 
Numa  in  his  wise  legislation.  Niima 
used  to  meet  her  in  a  grove  near  Ai'ic'ia. 

Egg.     Eggs.     (Anglo-Saxon,  erg.) 
A  bad  egg.    A  bad  speculation  ;  a  man 

who  promises,  but  whose  promises  are 

pie-crust. 

uL  dtick^s  egg,  in  cricket.     {Sec  Duck.) 
Golden    eggs.       Great    profits.       {!Sce 

Goose.) 

"  I  doitl)t  the  bird  is  flown  that  laid  the  giihlen 
e'j'4S."— Scott :  The  Antiqiuiry. 

The  mundane  egg.  The  Phoenicians, 
and  from  them  the  Egyjitiaus,  Hindus, 
Japanese,  and  many  other  ancient 
ntitions,  maintained  that  the  world  was 
hatched  from  an  egg  made  by  the 
Creator.  Orpheus  speaks  of  this  t^^g. 
Eggs  of  Nuremberg .  {fice  Nurembeeg.) 
Fasch  eggs.  {Sec  Easier  Etios.) 
The  scrpenfs  egg  of  the  I)ruids.  This 
wonderful  egg  was  hatched  by  the  joint 
labour  of  several  serpents,  and  was 
buoyed  into  the  air  by  their  hissing. 
The  person  who  caught  it  had  to  ride  off 
at  full  speed,  to  avoid  being  stung  to 
death ;  but  the  possessor  was  sure  to 
prevail  in  every  contest  or  combat,  and 
to  be  courted  by  those  in  power.  Pliny 
says  he  had  seen  one  of  these  eggs,  and 
that  it  was  about  as  large  as  a  moderate- 
sized  ajiple. 

Pheases  and  Peoterbs  : 

Iknit  put  all  your  eggs  in  one  basket. 
Don't  venture  all  youhaveinoue  sjiecu- 
lation  ;  don't  i^ut  all  your  proijerty  in 
one  bank.     The  allusion  is  obvious. 

From  the  egg  to  the  apples.  (Latin, 
"  ab  oro  nsqtie  ad  mcda.'''')  From  first  to 
last.  The  Romans  began  their  "dinner  " 
with  eggs,  and  ended  with  fruits  called 
"  mala." 

I  hare  eggs  on  the  spit.  I  am  very 
busy,  and  cannot  attend  to  anything 
else.  The  reference  is  to  roasting  eggs 
on  a  spit.  Tliey  were  first  boiled,  tlien 
the  J^olk  was  taken  out,  braided  up  with 
spices,  and  put  back  again ;  the  eggs 
were  then  drawn  on  a  "sjiit,"  and 
roasted.  As  this  required  both  despatch 
and  constant  attention,  the  person  jn 


"Egg 


408 


Ego 


charge  could  not  leave  them.  It  must 
be  rem  embered  that  the  word ' '  spit "  had 
at  one  time  a  much  wider  meauiug  than 
it  has  now.  Thus  toasting-forks  and 
the  hooks  of  a  Dutch  oven  were  termed 
spits. 

"  I  fnrgDt  to  tell  you,  I  write  short  journals 
liow  ;  I  liave  eggs  ou  tLe  siiit."— Swift. 

I  got  eggs  for  nig  moncg  means  I  gave 
valuable  money,  and  received  instead 
such  worthless  things  as  eggs.  When 
Wolsey  accused  the  Earl  of  Kildare  for 
not  taking  Desmond  ijrisouer,  the  Earl 
replied,  "Ho  is  no  more  to  blame  than 
his  brother  Ossory,  who  (notwith- 
standing his  high  promises)  is  glad  to 
take  eggs  for  his  money,"  i.e.  is  willing 
to  be  imposed  on.  {Campion :  Ilistorg 
of  Ireland,  1633.) 

JAke  as  two  eggs.     Exactly  alike. 

"Tliey  say  we  are  aluiost  as  like  as  eggs."— 
Shukeiijicare  :  ^yintcr's  Talc,  i.  -'. 

Sure  (IS  eggs  is  eggs.  Professor  de  Mor- 
gan suggests  that  this  is  a  coiTuptiou  of 
the  logician's  formula,  "a-is.c."  (Notes 
and  Queries.) 

Teach  your  grandmother  to  suck  eggs. 
Attempting  to  teach  your  elders  and 
superiors.  The  French  say,  "The  gos- 
lings want  to  drive  the  geese  to  pasture  " 
(^Les  Olsons  reulcnt  mener  tcs  ois  paitre). 

There  is  reason  in  roasting  eggs.  Even 
the  most  trivial  thing  has  a  reason  for 
being  done  in  one  way  rather  than  in 
some  other.  "When  wood  fires  were 
usual,  it  was  more  common  to  roast  eggs 
than  to  boil  them,  and  some  care  was 
required  to  j^revent  their  being  "  ill- 
roasted,  all  on  one  side,"  as  Touchstone 
says  (As  You  Like  It,  iii.  2); 

"  One  likes  tlie  jilieasaut's  wing,  and  one  tlie  leg  ; 
The  vulgar  boil,  the  learned  roast  an  egg." 

Pope:  Epistles,]]. 

To  tread  upon  eggs.  To  walk  gingerly, 
as  if  walking  over  eggs,  which  are  easily 
broken. 

Jf'itl  you.  take  eggs  for  your  money  ? 
"  Will  you  allow  yourself  to  be  imposed 
upon  ■?  Will  you  take  kicks  for  half- 
pence ?  "  This  saying  was  in  vogue 
when  eggs  were  plentiful  as  black- 
berries. 

"My  lionost  friend,  will  you  fake  eggs  for 
money  ?"—tlliali'espcurc:  Winter's  Tale,  i. :;. 

Egg  Feast.  In  Oxford  the  Saturday 
preceding  Shrove  Tuesday  is  so  called ; 
it  is  also  called  Egg -Saturday,  because 
pasch  eggs  are  provided  for  the  students 
on  that  day. 

Egg-flip,  Egg-hot,  Egg-nog.  Drinks 

composed  of  warm  spiced  ale,  witli  sugar, 
spirit  and  eggs  ;  or  eggs  beaten  up  with 
wine,  sweetened  and  flavoured,  etc, 


Egg-on  or  Edge-on.  A  corruption 
of  the  Saxon  eggian  (to  incite).  The 
Anglo-Saxon  ecg,  and  Scandinavian  eg, 
means  a  "  sharp  point  " — hence  edge-hog 
(hedgehog),  a  hog  with  sharp  points, 
called  in  Danish  pin-suin  (thorny 
swine),  and  in  French  pore-epic,  where 
epic  is  the  Latin  spic'ula  (spikes). 

Egg  Saturday  {See  above.  Egg- 
feast.) 

Egg-trot.  A  cautions,  jog-trot  pace, 
like  that  of  a  good  housewife  riding  to 
market  with  eggs  in  her  panniers. 

Egil.  Brother  of  Weland,  the  Vulcan 
of  Northern  mythology.  Egil  was  a 
great  archer,  and  a  tale  is  told  of  him 
the  exact  counterpart  of  the  famous 
story  about  William  Tell  :  One  day 
King  Nidung  commanded  Egil  to  shoot 
an  apple  off  the  head  of  his  son.  Egil 
took  two  well-selected  arrows  from  his 
quiver,  and  when  asked  by  the  king 
why  he  took  two,  replied  (as  the  Swiss 
peasant  to  Gessler),  "  To  shoot  thee,  0 
tyrant,  with  the  second,  if  I  fail." 

Egis.     {See  ^GIS.) 

Eglantine  (3  syl.).  Daughter  of 
King  I'epin,  and  bride  of  her  cousin 
Valentino,  the  brother  of  Orson.  She 
soon  died.     (  Valentine  and  Orson.) 

Madaine  Ef/laiitinc.  The  prioress  in 
Chaucer's  Canterbury  Tales.  Good- 
natured,  wholly  ignorant  of  the  world, 
vain  of  her  courtly  manners,  and  noted 
for  her  partiality  to  lap-dogs,  her  deli- 
cate oath,  "by  seint  Eloy,"  her  entun- 
ing  the  service  swetely  in  her  nose,"  and 
her  speaking  French  "  after  the  scole  of 
Stratford  atte  Bo  we." 

Ego  and  Non-Ego.  "Ego"  means 
I  myself  ;  "  Non-ego"  means  the  objec- 
tive world.  They  are  terms  used  by 
Fichte  (1762-1814)  to  explain  his  Ideal- 
ism. According  to  this  philosopher,  the 
Ego  posits  or  embraces  the  Non-ego. 
Take  an  example:  A  tree  is  an  object 
out  of  my  personality,  and  therefore  a 
part  of  the  Non-ego.  I  see  a  tree ;  the 
tree  of  my  brain  is  a  subjective  tree,  the 
tree  itself  is  an  objective  tree.  Before 
I  can  see  it,  the  objective  tree  and  the 
subjective  tree  must  be  like  the  two 
clocks  of  a  telegraphic  apparatus  ;  the 
sender  and  reader  must  be  in  connection, 
the  reader  must  "  posit,"  or  take  in  the 
message  sent.  The  message,  or  non- 
ego,  must  be  engrafted  into  the  ego. 
Applying  this  rule  generally,  all  objects 
known,  seen,  heard,  etc.,  by  me  become 
part  of  me,  or  the  ego  jjosits  the  non-ego 
by  subjective  objectivity. 


Egoism 


409 


Elagabalus 


Egoism.  The  theory  in  Ethics  which 
places  man's  stonmiim  bomim  in  seli.  The 
correlative  of  altruism,  or  the  theory 
which  places  our  own  greatest  happiness 
in  malang  others  hapjjy.  Egoism  is 
selfishness  pure,  altruism  is  selfish  bene- 
volence.   ' '  Egoist,' '  a  disciple  of  egoism. 

"Tci  say  tliat  eacli  indiviilual  sball  reap  tlie 
li^iieHts  lirouglit  to  him  by  bis  own  po-wers  .... 
is  to  eiuinciate  es'oism  as  an  iiltiiiiate iniiiciiile  of 
C{):i(iuct."— Spencer :  Data  of  Ethics,  i>.  Itiu. 

Eg'otism.  Tlie  too  frequent  use  of 
th^  word  I ;  the  habit  of  talking  about 
oneself,  or  of  paia  Hug  one's  own  doings. 
"  Egotist,"  one  addicted  to  egotism. 

E'gypt,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Absalom 
mid  Achitophel,  means  France. 

"  Egypt  and  Tynis  [Holland]  intercept  your  trade. 
And  Jeliusites  [Papists]  your  saored  rites   in- 
vade.'" Part  i.  70.J-6. 

Egyptian  Crown  {The).  That  of 
Upper  Egypt  was  a  high  conical  white 
cap,  terminating  in  a  knob.  That  of 
Lower  Eg}'pt  was  reel.  If  a  king  gov- 
erned both  countries  he  wore  both 
crowns  (that  of  Lower  Egypt  outside  the 
other).  This  double  crown  was  called  a 
pschent. 

Egyptian  Days.  The  last  Monday  in 
April,  the  second  Monday  of  August,  and 
the  third  Monday  of  December.  So 
called  because  Egyptian  astrologers 
marked  them  out. 

"  Three  days  thereare  in  the  year  whieli  we  call 
Egyptian  Daj  s."— .S.i.r.iit  .V,S.  (Bi-itish  Museum). 

Egyptian  Festivals  ( The) .  The  six 
great  festivals  of  the  ancient  Egyptians 
were — 

1.  That  of  Bubastis  (=  Diana,  or  the 
moon)  ; 

2.  That  of  Busiris,  in  honour  of  Isis  ; 

3.  That  of  Sais  (:=:  Minerva,  Hermes, 
or  Wisdom)  ; 

4.  That  of  Helior)5lis,  in  honour  of  the 
sun  ; 

o.  That  of  Butis,  or  Buto,  the  goddess 
of  night ;  and 

6.  That  of  Papremis  (=  Mars  or  Ares, 
the  god  of  War). 

Eider  -  down.  The  down  of  the 
eider  duck.  This  duck  is  common  in 
Greenlano,  Iceland,  and  the  Islands 
north  and  west  of  Scotland.  It  is 
about  the  size  of  a  goose,  and  receives 
its  distinctive  name  from  the  river  Eider, 
in  Denmark. 

Eikon  Basil'ike  [Portrait nre  of  tie 
Ki)i(/].  A  book  attributed  to  Charles  I., 
but  claimed  bj'  John  Gauden,  Bishop  of 
Exeter.  "  The  Eikwi'  is  wholly  and  only 
my  invention."  {Gauden  :  Letter  to 
the  Lord  ChanecUor.) 


Eisell.     Wormwood  wine.     Hamlet 

says  to  Laertes,  Woul't  drink  up  eisell — 
i.e.  drink  wormwood  wine  to  show  your 
love  to  the  dead  Ophelia  'i  In  the  Troi/ 
Book  of  Ludgate  we  have  the  line  "  Of 
bitter  eysell  and  of  eager  [sour]  wine." 
And  in  Shakespeare's  sonnets  : 

"  I  will  drink 
Potions  of  eysell,  'gainst  my  stnmg  infection  ; 
No  bitterness  that  I  will  hitter  think, 
Nor  double  peuauce  to  correct  correction." 

Sonnet  c.\i. 

Eisteddfod.  The  meetings  of  the 
Welsh  bards  and  others,  now  held  an- 
nually, for  tlie  encouragement  of  Welsh 
literature  and  music.  (Welsh,  "a  ses- 
sions," from  eistedd,  to  sit.) 

Either.  (Greek,  hekatef  ;  Irish,  ecaeh- 
tar  ;  Saxon,  ayther.  Ccaeh\  our  "each," 
and  eegther,  our  "  either.") 

Ejus'dem  Farinas  (Latin).  Of  the 
same  kidney  ;  of  tlie  same  sort. 

"  Lord  Hartington,  Lord  Derby,  Mr.  fhilders, 
and  other.s  ejusdem  fariucB." — yewspttpcr  para- 
ynipli,  X(jvemlier,  18«5. 

El  Dora'do.  Golden  illusion ;  a 
land  or  means  of  unbounded  wealth. 
Orella'na,  lieutenant  of  Pizarro,  pre- 
tended he  had  discovered  a  land  of  gold 
{el  dorado)  between  the  rivers  Orino'co 
and  Am'azon.  in  South  America.  Sir 
Walter  Ealeigh  twice  visited  Guia'na 
as  the  spot  indicated,  and  published  a 
highly-coloured  account  of  its  enormous 
wealth.  Figuratively,  a  source  of  wit, 
wealth,  or  abundance  of  any  kind. 

The  real  "land  of  gold"  is  California, 
and  not  Guiana.     {See  Balnibaebi.) 

"The  whole  C(miedy  is  a  sort  of  El  Dorado  of 
wit."— 7'.  Moore. 

V  El  Dorado  (masculine),  "  the  gilt 
one,"  can  hardly  refer  to  a  country  ; 
it  seems  more  likely  to  refer  to  some 
prince ;  and  we  are  told  of  a  prince  in 
South  America  who  was  every  day 
powdered  with  gold-dust  blown  through 
a  reed.  If  this  is  admitted,  no  wonder 
those  who  sought  a  golden  country  were 
disappointed. 

El  Infante  dc  Anteque'ra  is  tlu; 
Regent  Fernando,  who  took  tlie  city  of 
Anteque'ra  from  the  Moors  in  1419. 

El  Islam.  The  religion  of  the  Mos- 
lems. The  words  mean  "the  resigning 
onc's-self  to  God." 

El  Khi'dr.  One  of  the  good  angels, 
according  to  the  Koran. 

Elagab'alus.  A  Syro-Phcenician  sun- 
god,  represented  under  the  form  of  a 
huge  conical  stone.  The  Roman  emperor, 
Marcus  Aurelius  Antoninus,  was  so  called 
because  in  childhood  he  was  priest  of  the 


Elaine 


410 


Elector 


Sun-god.  Of  all  the  Eoman  emperors 
none  exceeded  him  in  debauchery  and 
sin.  He  reigned  about  four  years  (B.C. 
218-222),  and  died  at  the  age  of  eighteen. 
This  madman  invited  the  principal  men 
of  Rome  to  a  banquet,  and  smothered 
them  in  a  shower  of  roses. 

Ela'ine  (2  syl.).  The  "lily  maid  of 
Astolat"  {Guildford,  in  Sin-ivi/),  who 
loved  Sir  Lancelot  "  with  tliat  love 
which  was  her  doom."  Sir  Lancelot, 
being  sworn  to  celibacy,  could  not  have 
married  lier,  even  if  he  had  been  willing ; 
and,  unhapjiily,  what  little  love  he  had 
was  bestowed  on  the  queen.  Elaine  felt 
that  her  love  was  a  vain  thing,  and  died. 
According  to  her  last  request,  the  bed  on 
which  slie  died  w'as  placed  on  a  barge, 
and  on  it  was  laid  her  dead  body,  ar- 
raj'ed  in  wliite,  a  lily  in  her  right  hand, 
and  a  letter  avowing  her  love  in  the  left. 
An  old  dumb  servitor  steered  and  rowed 
the  barge  up  the  river,  and  when  it 
stopped  at  the  jialace  staith,  King 
Arthur  ordered  the  body  to  be  brought 
in.  The  letter  being  read,  Arthur  di- 
rected that  the  maiden  should  be  buried 
like  a  queen,  with  her  sad  story  blazoned 
on  her  tomb.  Tlie  tale  is  taken  from 
Sir  T.  Malory's  Ilislonj  of  Friiicc  Arthur, 
part  iii.  Tennyson  turned  it  into  blank 
verse.     {Idylls  of  (he  King  ;  Elaine.) 

das'motlie'riuin  (Greek,  the  inclal- 
plate  beast).  An  extinct  animal,  between 
the  horse  and  the  rhinoceros. 

Elberich.  The  most  famous  dwarf 
of  Gennan  romance.  He  aided  the 
Emperor  Otnit  (who  ruled  over  Lom- 
bardy)  to  gain  for  wife  the  Soldan's 
daughter.     {'The  Heldoibueh.) 

Elbow.  (Anglo-Saxon,  el-bog  a  ;  el=: 
an  ell,  buga^ia,  bow.) 

A  knight  of  the  elbow.     A  gambler. 

At  one'' s  elbow.     Close  at  hand. 

To  elbow  one's  wag  in.  To  push  one's 
way  through  a  crowd ;  to  get  a  place  by 
hook  or  crook. 

To  elbow  out;  to  be  rlbourd  out.  To 
supersede  ;  to  be  ousted  bj^  a  rival. 

Up  to  one's  elbotr  [in  work].  Very 
busy,  or  full  of  work.  Work  piled  up  to 
one's  elbows. 

Elbow  Grease.  Perspiration  ex- 
cited by  hard  manual  labour.  They  say 
'*  £lbow  grease  is  the  best  furniture  oil." 

Elbow  Room.  Sufficient  space  for 
the  work  in  hand. 

Elbows.  Out  at  elbows.  Shabbily 
dressed  (applied  to  men  only)  ;  meta- 
phorically, short  of  money ;  hackneyed ; 


stale  ;  thus,  we  say  of  a  play  which  has 
been  acted  too  often  that  it  is  worn  out 
at  elbows.  It  is  like  a  coat  which  is 
no  longer  presentable,  being  out  at  the 
elbows. 

Elden  Hole.  Eldcn  Hole  needs  filing, 
A  reproof  given  to  great  braggarts. 
Elden  Hole  is  a  deep  pit  in  Derbj-shire 
Peak,  said  to  be  fathomless.  (See  Sir 
ir.  'Scott :  I'cvrril  of  the  Teak,  ch.  iii.) 

Elder  Brethren.  {Sec  Teinity 
House.) 

Elder-tree.  Sir  John  Maundc\'ille, 
speaking  of  the  Pool  of  Sil'oe,  s-aj's, 
"  Fast  by  is  the  elder-tree  on  which 
Judas  hanged  himself  .  .  .  .  when  he  sold 
and  betrayed  our  Lord."  Shakespeare, 
in  Love's  Labour's  Lost,  v.  2,  saj's, 
"  Judas  was  hanged  on  an  elder."     {Sec 

ElG-TEEE.) 

"  .Iiiilas  lio  jni»'(l 

Witli  .Ifwish  siller, 

Ami  siiilit'ii  (ill  an  elder  tree 

ll.-lllgcd  liilli-ci." 

I'iirs  Pluirman ;  Visimi. 

Eleanor    Crosses.      (Sec    Cuaeino 

Ceos.s.) 

Eleatic  Philosophy.  Founded  by 
Xenoph'anes  of  El'ea  about  B.C.  ij'W. 
The  Ionic  school  believed  there  was  but 
one  element;  the  Eleatics  said  there 
were  four  or  six,  as  heat  and  cold, 
moisture  .and  drj'ness,  odd  and  even, 
from  the  antagonisms  of  Avliich  visible 
objects  sprang  :  Thus,  Tire  is  heat  act- 
ing on  drj'ness ;  Air  is  heat  acting 
on  moisture;  V'ater  is  cold  acting  on 
moisture  ;  and  Earth  is  cold  acting  on 
diTness.     {See  belotc.) 

The  Xew  Eleatic  School  was  founded 
bj'  Leucippos  of  El'ea,  a  disciple  of  Zcuo. 
He  wholly  discarded  the  phantasmagoric 
theory,  and  confined  his  attention  to 
the  physical  properties  of  the  visible 
world.  He  was  the  father  of  the  Atomic 
Sgsttnt,  in  which  the  agency  of  cheuicc 
was  ag:iin  revived. 

Elecampane  and  Amrida.  Sweet- 
meats which  confer  immortality  (Latin, 
helcnium  campana  or  inula  campdna). 
Pliny  tells  us  the  plant  so  called  sjjrang 
from  Helen's  tears.  The  sweetmeat  so 
called  is  a  coarse  sugar-candy.  There 
was  also  an  electuary  so  called,  said  to 
cure  wounds  given  in  fight. 

"  Here,  take  this  essence  of  elecampane  ; 
Rise  up,  Sir  Geur!,'e,  and  li.u'ht  anain." 

Miracle  Play  oj  tit.  Geor;ie. 

Elector.  A  prince  who  had  a  vote 
in  the  election  of  the  Emperor  of  Ger- 
many. Kapoleon  broke  up  the  old  Ger- 
man empire,  and  the  college  of  electors 
fell  asunder. 


Electricity 


411 


Elephant 


The  Great  Elector.  Frederick  William 
of  Brandenburg  (1620-1688). 

Electricity  (from  the  Greek  clch- 
iron,  amber).  Thales  (B.C.  600)  ob- 
served that  amber  when  rubbed  attracted 
light  substances,  and  this  observation 
followed  out  has  led  to  the  present 
science  of  electricity. 

"  Bright  amber  shines  on  liisolectrin  tlirone." 
Darwin  :  Economy  of  X  at  lire,  i.  -'. 

Negative  and  positive  electricity.  Two 
opposite  conditions  of  the  electric  state 
of  bodies.  At  one  time  electricity  was 
considered  a  fluid,  as  heat  was  thought 
to  be  caloric.  Eveiybody  was  thought 
to  have  a  certain  quantity.  If  a  body 
contained  more  than  its  normal  quan- 
tity it  was  said  to  be  positive  ;  if  less,  it 
was  said  to  be  mijallrc  in  this  respect. 
Another  theory  was  tliat  there  were  two 
different  electric  fluids,  wliich  neutralised 
each  other  when  they  came  in  contact. 
Electricity  is  now  sujjposed  to  be  a  mere 
condition,  like  heat  and  motion  ;  but  its 
energy  is  set  in  action  by  some  molecular 
disturbance,  such  as  friction,  rupture, 
and  chemical  action.  Tlie  old  terms  are 
still  retained. 

Electro-Biology.  The  science  of 
electricity  as  it  is  connected  with  the 
phenomena  of  living  beiugs.  Also  the 
effect  of  "  animal  magnetism  "  ou  living 
creatures,  said  to  produce  sleep,  stupor, 
anesthesia,  etc. 

Electro-chemistry.  That  branch 
of  chemistry  wliich  treats  of  electricity 
as  an  energy  aft'ecting  chemical  changes. 

Elec'tuary.  Something  to  be  licked 
up  ;  a  medicine  made  ''  thick  and  slab," 
which  cannot  be  imbibed  like  a  liquid 
nor  bolted  like  a  pill,  but  which  must  be 
licked  up  like  honey.   (Greek,  ck-lcicho.) 

Eleemos'yii^™*  Eteemos'ijnam  se- 
pidcri  palris  tui  (Alms  on  your  father's 
grave).     (.S'(y;  Meat.) 

Elegant  Extracts.  The  85th  Foot, 
remodelled  in  1813,  after  the  numerous 
court  -  martials  which  then  occurred. 
The  officers  of  the  regiment  were  re- 
moved, and  officers  drafted  from  other 
regiments  were  substituted  in  their 
places.  The  8-5th  is  now  called  the 
"Second  Battalion  of  the  Shropshire 
Light  Infantry."  The  first  battalion  is 
the  old  23rd. 

H  At  the  University  of  Cambridge,  in 
the  good  old  times,  some  few  men  were 
too  good  to  be  plucked  and  not  good 
enough  for  the  poll :  a  line  was  drawn 
below   the   poll-list,   and   these   lucky 


unfortunates,  allowed  to  pass,  were  nick- 
named the  Elegant  Extracts.  There  was 
a  similar  limbo  in  the  honour-list,  called 
the  Gulf,  in  allusion  to  a  Scripture  pas- 
sage well  known  and  thus  iiarodied, 
"Between  them  [in  tlie poll]  and  us  [in 
the  honoiir-lista]  there  is  a  great  gulf 
fixed,"  etc. 

Elegiacs.  (See  Hexametees  and 
Pentameters.) 

El'ements,  according  to  Aristotle. 
Aristotle  maintained  that  there  are  four 
elements — fire,  air,  water,  and  earth  ; 
and  this  assertion  has  been  the  subject 
of  very  unwise  ridicule.  Modern  chemists 
maintain  the  same  fact,  but  have  selected 
four  new  words  for  the  four  old  ones, 
and  instead  of  the  term  "element,"  use 
"  material  forms."  We  say  that  matter 
exists  under  four  forms  :  the  imponder- 
able (caloric),  the  gaseous  (air),  the  liquid 
(water),  and  the  solid  (earth),  and  this 
is  all  the  ancient  philosoijhers  meant  by 
their  four  elements  or  elemental  fomis. 
It  was  Emped'ocles  of  Sicily  who  first 
maintained  that  fire,  air,  earth,  and 
water  are  the  four  elements  ;  but  he 
called  them  Zeus,  Hera,  Goea,  and  Po- 
sei'don.  (Latin,  eleo  for  oleo.  Vossius 
says  :  ab  ant.  eleo  pro  oleo,  i.e.  cresco, 
quod  omnia  crescant  ac  nascantur." 
Latin,  clemcnttim.  to  grow  out  of.) 

"  Let  us  the  great  philosoiiher   [Aristotle]   at- 
tend .... 
TTis  elements, 'Earth,  Water,  Air, and  Fire" ;  . . . 
Tell  why  these  simple  elements  are  fmir  ; 
AVhy  just  so  many  ;  why  not  less  or  more  ?" 
Bluckmore :  Creation,  v. 

*.*  The  first  of  these  forms  —  viz. 
"Caloric,"  or  the  imponderable  matter 
of  heat,  is  now  attributed  to  a  mere  con- 
dition of  matter,  like  motion. 

Elephant.  The  elephant  which  sup- 
ports the  world  is  called  "Muha-pudma," 
and  the  the  tortoise  which  supports  the 
elephant  is  called  "  Chukwa."  In  some 
of  the  Eastern  mythologies  we  are  told 
that  the  world  stands  on  the  backs  of 
eight  elephants,  called  ' '  Achtequed- 
jams." 

Elephant  {The).  Symbol  of  temper- 
ance, eternity,  and  sovereignty.  {See 
White  Elephant.) 

„"  L'eternite  est  desisnee  sur  una  medaille  de 
I'enu'ereur  Philippe,  pai'un  elephant  surleijuel  est 
monte  un  petit  garcou  avme  de  Heches."— A'oei  : 
Victionnaire  de  la  Fable,  vol.  i.  p.  506. 

Elephant.     {Sec  White  Elephant.) 

Onlg  an  elephant  can  bear  an  elephant'' s 
had.  An  Indian  proverb  :  Only  a  great 
man  can  do  the  work  of  a  great  man  ; 
also,  the  burden  is  more  than  I  can  bear ; 
it  is  a  load  fit  for  an  elephant. 


Elephant  Paper 


412 


Elf- arrows 


Elephant  Paper.  A  large  -  sized 
drawiiig-iiajier,  measuriug  20  inches  by 
23.  There  is  also  a  ' '  double  elephant 
paper,"  measuring  40  inches  by  2(j|. 

Elephant  and  Castle.  A  public- 
house  sign  at  Newingtoi),  said  to  derive 
its  name  from  the  skeleton  of  an  ele- 
phant dug  up  near  Battle  Bridge  in 
1714.  A  fiiut-headed  spear  lay  by  the 
remains,  whence  it  is  conjectured  tliat 
the  creature  was  killed  by  the  British  in 
a  fight  with  the  Romans.     {TIic  Times.) 

There  is  another  public-house  with 
the  same  sign  in  St.  Paucras,  probably 
intended  to  represent  an  elephant  with  a 
howdah. 

Elephan'ta,  in  Bombay,  is  so  called 
from  a  stone  elephant,  which  carried  a 
tiger  on  its  back,  and  formerly  stood 
near  the  landing-place  on  the  south  side 
of  the  island.  It  has  now  nearly  dis- 
apiieared.  The  natives  call  it  Gahra- 
pooree  (cave  town),  from  its  cave,  130 
feet  long.     {C/ioic-c/ioic.) 

Elephantine  (4  syl.).  Heavy  and 
ungainly,  like  an  elephant.  In  Rome, 
the  registers  of  the  senate,  magistrates, 
generals,  and  emperors  were  called  ele- 
phantine books,  because  they  were  made 
of  ivory.  In  geology,  tlie  elephantine 
period  was  that  noted  for  its  numerous 
large  thick-skinned  animals.  The  dis- 
ease called  clephanti'asis  is  when  the 
limbs  swell  and  look  like  those  of  an 
elephant  more  than  those  of  a  human 
being. 

Eleusin'ian  Mysteries.  The  re- 
ligious rites  in  honour  of  Deme'ter  or 
Ceres,  perfonned  at  Eleu'sis,  in  Aftica. 

Elevation  of  the  Host  ( The) .  The 
celebrant  lifting  up  the  "  consecrated 
wafers  "  above  his  head,  that  the  people 
may  see  the  paten  and  adore  "the  Host" 
while  his  back  is  turned  to  the  congre- 
gation. 

Eleven  (Anglo  -  Saxon,  andhfene, 
aend  =  nin,  lefene  =  lef,  left).  One  left 
or  one  more  after  counting  ten  (the 
fingers  of  the  two  hands).  Twelve  is 
Twa  lef  (two  left) ;  all  the  other  teens 
up  to  20  represent  3,  4,  5,  etc.  -f-  ten. 
It  would  seem  that  at  one  time  persons 
did  not  count  higher  than  twelve,  but 
in  a  more  advanced  state  they  required 
higher  numbers,  and  introduced  the 
"  teen  "  series,  omitting  eleven  and 
twelve,  which  would  be  enicen  and  tica- 
teeii. 

Eleven  Thousand  Virgins.  Ur'sula 
being  asked  ixi  niarriage   by  a  pagan 


prince,  fled  towards  Rome  with  her 
eleven  thousand  virgins.  At  Cologne 
they  were  all  massacred  by  a  party  of 
Huns,  and  even  to  the  present  hour 
"  their  bones  "  are  exhibited  to  visitors 
through  windows  in  the  wall.  Maury 
says  that  Ursula's  hnndmaid  was  named 
Undcciiiiella,  and  that  the  legend  of  her 
eleven  thousand  virgins  rose  out  of  this 
name.     {Liycitdcs  TicKses.) 

Eleventh  Hour  {At  tlie).  Just  in 
time  (Matt.  xx.  1). 

Blf{ plural,  Elves,  Anglo-Saxon,  wlf). 
Proi)erly,  a  mountain  fay,  but  more 
loosely  applied  to  those  airy  creatures 
that  dance  on  the  grass  or  sit  in  the 
leaves  of  trees  and  delight  in  the  full 
moon.  They  have  fair  golden  hair, 
sweet  musical  voices,  and  magic  harjis. 
They  have  a  king  and  queen,  marry  and 
are  given  in  marriage.  They  imper- 
sonate the  shimmering  of  the  air,  the 
felt  but  indefinable  melody  of  Nature, 
and  all  the  little  prettinesses  which  a 
lover  of  the  country  sees,  or  thinks  he 
sees,  in  hill  and  dale,  copse  and  meadow, 
grass  and  tree,  river  and  moonlight. 
Spenser  says  that  Prome'theus  called  the 
man  he  made  "  Elfe,"  who  found  a  maid 
in  the  garden  of  Ado'uis,  whom  he  called 
"  Fay,"  of  "  whom  all  Fayres  spring." 

"  Of  tliesea  iiiiglity  peoiile  shortly  crrcw, 
And  puissaut  kiugs,  wliicli  all  tlie  wurld  war- 

rayd, 
And  to  llieniselves  all  nations  did  sulidne." 

Fuerie  Queaie,  ii.  u,  stanza  7n.  etc. 

JE/f  a)id  Goliliii,  as  derived  from  Guelf 
and  Ghibelline,  is  mentioned  in  Johnson 
(article  Goblin),  though  the  words 
existed  long  before  those  factions  arose. 
Heylin  (in  his  Cosiiwr/rap/n/,  p.  130)  tells 
us  that  some  supported  that  ojiinion  in 
]  670.    Skinner  gives  the  same  etymology. 

lied  EJf.  In  Iceland,  a  person  gaily 
dressed  is  called  a  red  elf  {raiid  d(fr),  in 
allusion  to  a  superstition  that  dwai-fs 
wear  scarlet  or  red  clothes.  (XioPs 
Sat/as.)  Black  elves  are  evil  sjiirits ; 
white  elves,  good  ones. 

Elf-arrows.  Arrow-heads  of  the 
neolithic  period.  The  shafts  of  these 
arrows  were  reeds,  and  the  heads  were 
pieces  of  flint,  carefully  sliarpened,  and 
so  adjusted  as  to  detach  thenjselves  from 
the  shaft  and  remain  in  the  wounded 
body.  At  one  time  they  were  supposed 
to  be  shot  by  elves  at  people  and  cattle 
out  of  malice  or  revenge. 
"  Tliere  every  herd  by  sad  exiierience  knows 

How,  winged  with  fate,  llieir  elf-shot  arrows 

fly, 

When  the  sick  ewe  her  snnmier  fond  forprnes, 
Or  stretched  on  earth  the  heart-smjl   heifers 
lie."  Collins  :  I'vjiuhir  Siiiierstitiong. 


Elf-fire 


413 


Elissa 


Elf-fire.  The  ignis  -  fatuus.  The 
name  of  this  elf  is  Will  o'  the  Wisp, 
Jack  o'  lauthom,  Peg-a-lauteru,  or  Kit 
o'  the  caustick  (candlestick). 

Elf-land.  The  realm  ruled  over  by 
Oberon,  King  of  Fai-ry.  King  James 
says  :  "  I  think  it  is  liker  Vir'gilis  Caiiipi 
Elysii  nor  anything  that  ought  to  be  be- 
lieved by  Christians."(Z'(««o«o%y,iii.5.) 

Elf-locks.  Tangled  hair.  It  is  said 
that  one  of  the  favourite  amusements  of 
Queen  Mab  is  to  tie  people's  haii-  in 
knots.  When  Edgar  impersonates  a 
madman,  "  he  elfs  all  his  hair  in  knots." 

{Lear,  ii.  3.) 

"  This  is  that  very  Mab 
Tliat  plats  the  manes  of  horses  in  the  ui«lit, 
And  hakes  [?  cakes]  the  elf-locks  in  foul  sluttish 
hairs." 

Slialicspeare :  Romeo  and  Juliet,  \.  4. 

Elf-marked.  Tliose  born  vrith  a 
natural  defect,  according  to  the  ancient 
Scottish  superstition,  are  marked  by  the 
elves  for  mischief.  Queen  Margaret 
called  Richard  III. — 

"  Thou  elUsh-niarked,  abortive,  rooting  hos  !  "— 
fihakcspeare :  Richard  III.,  i.  3. 

Elf-shot.  Afflicted  with  sojne  un- 
kuowu  disease,  and  supposed  to  have 
been  wounded  by  an  elfin  arrow.  Tlie 
rinderpest  would,  in  tlie  INIiddle  Ages, 
have  been  ascribed  to  elf-shots.  ('SVc 
Elf-aeeows.) 

Elfin.  The  first  fairy  king.  He  ruled 
over  India  and  America.  {Middle  Aye 
llomancc.) 

El'gin  Marbles.  A  collection  of 
ancient  bas-reliefs  and  statues  made  by 
Lord  Elgin,  and  sent  to  England  in  1812. 
They  are  chiefly  fragments  of  the  Par'- 
thenon  at  Athens,  and  were  purchased 
by  the  British  Government  for  £35,000, 
to  be  placed  in  the  British  Museum  (1816). 
(Elgin  pronounced  '  gin,'  as  in  bcyiji.) 

E'lia.  A  fioni  de  jjlitme  adopted  by 
Charles  Lamb.     {Essays  of  £lia.) 

"The  adoption  of  this  signature  was  purely 
accidental.  LanilTs  llrst  contriliution  to  the 
London  Maaazine  w.as  a  description  of  the  ohl 
S"Ulli-Sea  House,  where  he  had  passed  a  few 
iMouth.s'  novitiate  as  a  clerk,  .  .  .  and  reineniher- 
iiiL;  the  iiaiiie  of  a  gay  light-hearted  foreigner, 
who  lliutered  there  at  the  time,  substituted  his 
name  for  his  o\yn."—TaI/ourd. 

Eli'ab,  in  the  satire  of  Absalom  and 
Arhitoplicl,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  is 
meant  for  Henry  Bennet,  Earl  of  Ar- 
lington. Eliab  was  one  of  the  chiefs  of 
the  Gadites  who  joined  David  at  Ziklag. 
(1  Chron.  xii.  9.) 

"  Hard  the  task  to  do  Eliab  right; 
Long  with  the  royal  wanderer  [Charles  11.]  he 

roved, 
And  firm  in  all  the  tiu'ns  of  f<n-tune  proved." 
, AOiulvm  and  Acliitophel,  part  ii.  y»6-8. 


Eli'akim.  Jehoiakim,  King  of  Judah. 

(B.C.  63.5,  610-O98.) 

El'idure  (3  syl.).  A  legendary  king 
of  Britain,  advanced  to  the  throne  in 
place  of  his  elder  brother,  Arthgallo, 
supposed  by  him  to  be  dead.  Arthgallo, 
after  a  long  exile,  returned  to  his 
country,  and  Elidure  resigned  to  him 
the  throne.  Wordsworth  has  a  poem  on 
the  subject. 

Eligibles  and  Detrimentals.  Sons 
which  are  socially  good  and  bad  j^arties, 
to  be  introduced  to  daughters  with  a 
view  of  matrimony. 

"The  County  Families  of  the  United  Kingdom 
is  useful  to  all  who  are  concerned  with  ciuestions 
of  precedence,  and  especially  useful  to  mothers 
who  desire  to  distinguish  between  '  eligibles'  and 
'  detrimentals.'  "—Notes  and  Queries,  February  1st, 
1»»0,  p.  119. 

Elijah's  Melons.  Certain  stones  on 
Mount  Carmel  are  so  called.  {See  Stan- 
ley, Sinai  and  I'alestine.) 

V  Similar  formations  are  those  called 
"  The  Virgin  Mary's  Peas"  {q.r.).  Com- 
pare also  the  Bible  story  of  Lot's  wife. 

The  story  is  that  the  owner  of  the  land  refused 
to  supply  "the  wants  of  the  jiropher,  and  conse- 
iiuciiily  ii's  melons  were  transformed  into  stones. 

Eliminate  (4  syl.).  To  turn  out  of 
doors  ;  to  turn  out  of  an  equation  every- 
thing not  essential  to  its  conditions. 
(Latin,  e  limine,  out  of  doors.) 

Eliot  {Georye).  A  nom  de  plume  of 
Marian  Evans  (Mrs.  Cross),  author  of 
Adam  Bede,  etc.   (1820-1880). 

Eliott's  Tailors.  The  15th  Hussars, 
now  the  l.'ith  [King's]  Hu.'^sirs,  previously 
called  the  loth,  or  king's  own  royal  light 
dragoon  guards.  In  1759  Lieutenant- 
Colonel  Eliott  enlisted  a  large  number  of 
tailors  on  strike  into  a  cavalry  regiment 
modelled  after  the  Prussian  hussars. 
This  regiment  so  highly  distinguished 
themselves,  that  George  III.  granted 
them  the  honour  of  being  called  "  the 
king's  royal." 

Elissa.    Dido,  Queen  of  Carthage.   A 
Phoenician  name  signifying  heroic,  brave. 
'■  Nee  me  meminisse  pigebit  Elissa?." 

Virgil :  JEneid,  iv.  ."ai. 

V  Dido  was  the  niece  of  the  Bible 
Jezebel.  Ithobal  I.,  king  of  TjTe  (1 
Kings  xvi.  13),  had  for  children  Bel  us, 
MargSuus,  and  Jezebel.  Of  these  Belus 
was  the  father  of  Pygmalion  and  Dido. 
Hence  Jezebel  was  Dido's  aunt. 

Elis'sa  [deficiency  or  parsimony; 
Greek,  ellipsis).  Step-sister  of  Medi'na 
and  Peris'sa,  but  they  could  never  agree 
upon  any  subject.  {Spenser :  Faerie 
Qiicene,  book  ii.) 


Elivager 


414 


Elohistic 


Eliva'ger  (4  syl.).  A  cold  venomous 
stream  whicli  issued  from  Niflheim,  and 
iu  tlie  abyss  called  the  Giununga  Gap, 
hardeuiug  into  layer  upon  layer  of  ice. 

{'Sc(iii(/in(iriaii  mijtholuyi/.) 

Elixir  of  Life.  A  ruby,  supposed  by 
the  alcliemists  to  prolong  life  indefinitely. 
The  tincture  for  transmuting  metals  was 
also  called  an  elixir.  (Arabic,  cl  or  al 
iksir,  the  iksir  (?  coction).)     {See  Am- 

EITA.) 
"  He  that  has  once  tlie  Flower  of  the  Sun, 
The  iierfect  ruhy  wliich  we  call  Elixir.  .  .  . 
Can  confer  honour,  love,  respect,  long  life, 
Give  safety,  valour,  yea,  and  \  ictory, 
To  whom  he  will.    In  eiKht-aiid-twciity  days 
I'll  make  au  old  man  of  fouiscore  a  linld. 

ISoi  Jonson:  Tlic  Aliimnint,  ii.  1. 

Elizabeth  had  pet  names  for  all  her 

favourite  courtiers  ;  q.e.  : 

Tlie   mother  of  Sii'  John  Norris  she 
called  "  My  own  Grow." 
Burghley  was  her  "  Spirit." 
Mount  joy  she  termed  her  "Kitchen- 
maid  in  Ireland." 

Elizabeth  has  given  more  variants 
than  any  other  Cliristian  name :  Eliza, 
Isa,  Isabel,  Lizz}%  Elizabeth,  Elisabetta, 
Betty,  Bettina,  Bess,  Bessy,  etc. 

Elizabeth  of  Hungary  (W.).  Patron 
saint  of  queens,  being  lierself  a  queen. 
(1207-rJ:Jl.) 

Elizabe'than.  After  the  style  of 
things  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 
Elizabethan  architecture  is  a  mixture  of 
Gothic  and  Italian,  prevalent  in  the 
reigns  of  Elizabeth  and  James  I. 

Ell  (Anglo-Saxon  cf/i,  au  ell).  It  is 
said  that  the  English  ell  was  the  length 
of  Henry  I.'s  arm,  but  the  ordinary 
length  of  a  man's  arm  is  about  a  j^ard. 

(j'irc  hail  ail  bich,  and  he^ll  take  an  ell. 
Give  him  a  little  licence,  and  he  will  take 
great  liberties,  or  make  great  encroach- 
ments. The  ell  was  no  definite  length. 
The  English  ell  was  45  inches,  the  Scotch 
ell  only  37  inches,  while  the  Elemish  ell 
wasthree-quartersof ayard  and  aFreuch 
ell  a  yard  and  a  half.  This  indefinite 
measure  expresses  the  uncertainty  of  the 
length  to  which  persons  will  go  to  whom 
you  give  the  inch  of  liberty.  Some  will 
go  the  French  ell ;  while  others  of  n.ore 
modesty  or  more  limited  desires  will  be 
satisfied  with  the  shorter  measures. 

Ell-wand  {The  Kiiufs).  The  group 
of  stars  called  "  Orion's  Belt." 

"  The  King's  Ellwand,  now  foolishly  termed  the 
'  Uolt  of  Orion.'  "—Uugij  :  Tules,  etc. 

Ella,  or  Alia.  King  of  Northumber- 
land, who  married  Cunstauce.  {Cliaucer: 
Ma»  of  Laives  Tale.)    {Sec  Cunstange.) 


Elliot.  In  the  Black  Dwarf,  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott,  are  seven  of  that  name, 
viz.  Halbort  or  Hobbie  Elliot,  of  the 
Heugh-foot  (a  farmer)  ;  Mrs.  Elliot,  his 
grandmother ;  John  and  Harry,  liis 
brothers ;  and  LiHas,  Jean,  and  Aj-not, 
his  sisters. 

EUyl'lon.  The  souls  of  the  ancient 
Druids,  which,  being  too  good  for  hell, 
and  not  good  enough  for  heaven,  are 
permitted  to  wander  upon  earth  till  the 
judgment  day,  when  they  will  be  ad- 
mitted to  a  higher  state  of  being.  ( IVehh 
mi/(hoI(ifnj.) 

Elmo's  Fire  (St.).  Comazants,  or  elec- 
tric lights  occasionally  seen  on  the  masts 
of  ships  before  and  after  a  storm ;  so 
called  by  the  Spaniards  because  St.  Elmo 
is  with  them  the  patron  saint  of  sailors. 
{Sec  Castor  and  Pollux.) 

"  Sudden,  breaking  on  their  raptured  sight, 
Api'cared  the  splendour  of  St.  Elmo's  liglit." 
Uuole :  Oflaiulo  Furioso,  book  ix. 

Elohim.  The  genus  of  which  ghosts, 
Chemosh,  Dagon,  Baal,  Jahveh,  etc., 
were  species.  The  ghost  or  si)ectre 
which  appeared  to  Saul  (1  S.am.  xxviii. 
14-20)  is  called  Elohim.  "  I  sec  Elohim 
coming  up  out  of  the  earth,"  said  the 
witch  ;  and  Saul  asked,  "  What  is  HE 
like?"  {ITaxhi/ :  K'uieteeuth  Coititry, 
March,  1880.) 

"The  W(ud  Elohim  is  often  applied  in  the  Bible 
to  the  gods  of  the  Gentiles."— itHorwitij/f;  Seyhi- 
iiiiK/s  0}  Iliatunj,  chap.  vii. 

^  In  theology,  Elohim  (the  plural  of 
Eloali)  means  the  "  Lord  of  Hosts,"  or 
Lord  of  all  power  and  might.  Jehovah 
signifies  rather  the  God  of  mercy  and 
forgiveness.  Hence,  Elohim  is  used  to 
express  the  God  of  creation,  but  Je- 
hovah the  God  of  the  covenant  of 
mercy. 

"Elnhim  designates  the  fulness  of  Divine 
power." — lieliiiiuus  EiiriiclupceiUii. 

Elohistic  and  Jehovis'tic  Scrip- 
tures. The  Pentateuch  is  sujiijosed  by 
Bishop  Colenso  and  many  others  to  have 
been  written  at  two  widely  different 
periods,  because  God  is  invariably  called 
Elo'him  in  some  paragraphs,  while  in 
others  He  is  no  less  invariably  called 
Jehovah.  The  Elohistic  paragraphs, 
being  more  simple,  more  i^rimitive,  more 
narrative,  and  more  pastoral,  are  said  to 
be  the  older  ;  while  the  Jeho^astic  para- 
graphs indicate  a  knowledge  of  geo- 
graphy and  history,  seem  to  exalt  the 
priestly  office,  and  are  altogether  of  a 
more  elaborate  character.  Those  who 
maintain  this  theory  thiuk  that  some 
late  transcriber  has  compiled  the  two 
Scriptures  and  combined  them  into  one, 


Eloi 


411: 


Elysium 


much,  the  same  as  if  the  four  Gospels 
were  collated  and  welded  together  iuto 
a  single  one.  To  give  one  or  two  ex- 
amples: —  Gen.  i.  27,  it  is  said,  "So 
God  {Elohiin)  created  man  in  His  own 
image,  (both)  male  and  female"; 
whereas,  in  the  next  chapter  (21-24),  it 
is  said  that  God  {Jehovah)  caused  a  deep 
sleep  to  fall  on  Adam,  and  that  He  then 
took  from  the  sleeping  man  a  rib  and 
made  it  a  woman  ;  and  therefore  (says 
the  writer)  a  man  shall  cleave  imto  his 
wife,  and  the  two  be  considered  one 
flesh.  Again  (Gen.  vi.  19)  Eloliim  tells 
Noah,  "Two  of  every  sort  shalt  thou 
bring  into  the  ark,  a  male  and  a 
female";  and  (vii.  9)  "There  went  in 
two  and  two  unto  Noah  into  tlie  ark, 
the  male  and  the  female,  as  God  [Eloliim) 
commanded  Noah."  In  Gen.  vii.  2 
Jehovah  tells  Noah  he  is  to  make  a 
distinction  between  clean  and  unclean 
beasts,  and  that  he  is  to  admit  the 
former  by  sevens  and  the  latter  hy  twos. 
lu  the  first  example,  the  priestly  cha- 
racter is  indicated  by  the  nioral,  and  in 
the  latter  by  the  distinction  made 
between  clean  and  unclean  animals.  We 
pass  no  opinion  on  this  theory,  but  state 
it  as  fairly  as  we  can  in  a  few  lines. 

Eloi  {St.).  Patron  saint  of  artists 
and  smiths.  He  was  a  famous  worker  in 
gold  and  silver,  and  was  made  Bishop 
of  Noyon  in  the  reign  of  Dag'obert. 
Probably  the  St.  Eloi  of  Cliaucer's  Prior- 
ess was  St.  Louis  (St.  'Ley). 

"  Tlii'i-  was  .ilsd  !i  ihiiiiip,  -A  iiriiire.-iso, 

Tli:il  cil'  liii  !■  siii\  l\  11'.;  WIS  fill  SMJiple  and  coy  ! 

Hii-o  -ivii.'- ih  w:i,^  luit  l.y  Seyiil  Lnv." 

Chmn,  r  :  Cantrrbiinj  Tilled,  I'nil.  lS-3). 

V  We  find  reference  to  "  Scyut  Loy  " 
again  in  verse  71-13. 

Eloquent.  The  old  man  eloquent. 
Isoc'rate-5,  the  Greek  orator.  When  he 
heard  that  Grecian  liberty  was  extin- 
guished by  the  battle  of  Chserone'a,  he 
died  of  grief. 

"  TUat  dishonest  victory 
At  Cliwriinea,  fatal  to  liberty, 
Killed  witli  report  tliatold  man  eloiiiient." 
Miltun:  iionnets  {To  Lady  Manjarct  Leii). 

The  eloquent  doctor.  Peter  Aure'olus, 
Arclibibhop  of  Aix,  a  schoolman. 

Elshender  or  Caiuiie  Elshie.  The 
Black  Dwarf,  alias  Sir  Edward  Mauley, 
aluts  the  Recluse,  alias  the  Wise  Wiglit 
of  Mucklestane  Moor.  [Sir  VaUcr  Scott: 
The  Black  Luarf.) 

Elsie.  The  daughter  of  Gottlieb,  a 
farm  tenant  of  Prince  Henry  of  Hohe- 
ueck.  The  prince  was  suffering  severely 
from  some  malady,  and  was  told  tliat  he 


would  be  cured  if  any  maiden  would 
give  her  life  as  a  substitute.  Elsie 
vowed  to  do  so,  aud  accompanied  the 
prince  from  Gennany  to  Salerno.  Here 
Elsie  surrendered  herself  to  Lucifer, 
but  was  rescued  by  the  prince,  who 
married  her.  His  health  was  perfectly 
re-established  by  the  pilgrimagp.  (  T.nng- 
fellow :   The  Golden  Legend.) 

Elves.     {See  under  Elf.) 

Elvidna.  The  hall  of  the  goddess 
Hel  {q.r.). 

Elvi'no.  A  rich  farmer,  in  love  with 
Ami'na,  the  somnambulist.  The  fact  of 
Ami'na  being  found  in  the  bed  of  Count 
Eodolpho  the  day  before  the  wedding, 
induces  El  vino  to  reject  her  hand  and 
promise  marriage  to  Liza  ;  but  he  is 
soon  undeceived — Ami'na  is  foimd  to  be 
innocent,  and  Liza  to  have  been  the 
paramour  of  anotlier ;  so  Ami'na  and 
Elvi'no  are  wedded  under  the  happiest 
auspices.  {lielli'ni's  opera,  La  Sonnain- 
lala.)     {See  Liza.) 

Elvi'ra  {Donna).  A  lady  deceived 
b}^  Don  Giovanni,  who  deluded  her  into 
a  liaison  with  his  valet,  Leporello. 
{Mozarfs  opera,  l)on  Giovanni.) 

EAvira.  A  lady  who  loved  Enia'ni, 
the  robber- captain,  and  head  of  a  league 
against  Don  Carlos,  afterwards  Charles 
V.  of  Spain.  She  was  betrothed  to  Don 
Ruy  Gomez  de  Silva,  an  old  Spanish 
grandee,  whom  she  detested,  and  Ernani 
resolved  to  rescue  her ;  but  it  so  hap- 
jjened  that  the  king  himself  fell  in  love 
with  her,  and  tried  to  win  her.  When 
Silva  learned  this,  he  joined  the  league  ; 
but  the  king,  overhearing  the  plot  in 
concealment,  arrested  the  conspirators. 
Elvira  interceded  for  them,  and  the  king 
granted  them  a  free  jiardon.  When 
Ernani  was  on  the  point  of  wedding 
Elvira,  Ernani,  being  summoned  to 
death  by  Silva,  stabbed  himself.  (  Verdi's 
opera  of  Ernani.) 

El'vish  or  Elfish.  Irritable,  peevish, 
spiteful ;  full  of  little  mischievous  ways, 
like  the  elves.  Our  superstitious  fore- 
fathers thought  such  jiersons  were  actu- 
ally "jjossessed"  by  elves;  and  elvish- 
marked  is  marked  by  elves  or  fairies. 

"  Tliou  elvisli-iiiarked,  abortive,  rootin,!,'  hog." 
l<liuhispeare :  Ilicliard  III.,  i.  3. 

Ely'sium.  Elpsian  Fields.  The  Para- 
dise or  Hajipy  Laud  of  the  Greek  poets. 
Elysian  (the  adjective)  means  hajipy, 
delightful. 

"O'er  which  were  shadowy  cast  Elysian  gleams." 
Thdwsoii :  Cattle  of  Indolence,  i.  44. 
"  Wouhi  take  the  prisoned  sonl, 
And  lap  it  iu  Elysium." 

Milton :  Covnts,  201-2.. 


Elzevir 


416 


Emergency 


El'zevir.  An  edition  of  a  classic 
author,  published  and  printed  by  the 
family  of  Elzevir,  and  said  to  be  im- 
maculate. Virgil,  one  of  the  master- 
pieces, is  certainly  incorrect  in  some 
places.     (1592-1(326.) 

Em.  The  unit  of  measure  in  printing. 
The  standard  is  a  pica  M  ;  and  the  width 
of  a  line  is  measured  by  the  number  of 
such  M's  that  would  stand  side  by  side 
in  the  "stick."  This  dictionary  is  in 
double  columns ;  each  column  equals  11 
pica  M's  in  width,  and  one  M  is  allowed 
for  the  space  between.  Some  work  is 
made  up  to  lOJ,  20^,  etc.,  ems;  and  for 
the  lialf-em  printers  employ  the  letter  N, 
which  is  in  width  half  a  letter  M.  As 
no  letter  is  wider  than  the  M,  and  all 
narrower  letters  are  fractions  of  it,  this 
letter  forms  a  very  convenient  standard 
for  i^riuting  pui-poses. 

Embargo.  7b  lay  an  cniharf/o  on  him 
or  it  is  to  impose  certain  conditions 
before  you  give  j-our  consent.  It  is  a 
Portuguese  and  Spanish  word,  meaning 
an  order  issued  by  autliority  to  prevent 
ships  leaving  port  for  a  fixed  period. 

Embarras  de  Richesse.  More 
matter  tlian  can  be  used ;  overcrowded 
with  facts  or  material.  A  publisher  or 
editor  who  is  overwhelmed  with  MSS., 
or  contributions  ;  an  author  who  has 
more  incidents  or  illustrations  in  support 
of  liis  theory  tliau  he  can  produce,  etc., 
liave  an  cnibarras  dc  richcsne. 

Ember  Days  are  the  Wednesday, 
Fridaj^,  and  Saturday  of  Ember  Weeks 

{q.V.). 

Ember  Weeks.  A  corruption  of 
quat'uor  ton' jxirn,  through  the  Dutch 
qnatcniprr  and  Geniian  quatcmhcr.  The 
four  times  are  after  Quadragesima 
Sunday,  Whit  Sunday,  Holyrood  Day 
(September),  and  St.  Lucia's  Day  (Decem- 
ber). The  supposition  that  persons  sat 
in  embers  (or  ashes)  on  these  days  is 
without  foundation. 

Emblem  is  a  picture  with  a  hidden 
meaning;  the  meaning  is  "cast  into" 
or  "inserted  in"  the  visible  device. 
Thus,  a  balance  is  an  emblem  of  justice, 
ivhite  of  purity,  a  sceptre  of  sovereignty. 
(Greek,  en-hallo,  which  giv9s  the  Greek 
emllenia.)  {See  Apostles,  Patkon 
Saints.) 

Some  of  the  most  common  and  simple 
emblems  of  the  Christian  Church  are — 

A  chalice.     The  eucharist. 

The  circle  inscribed  in  an  equilateral 
triangle.  To  denote  the  co-equality  and 
CO -eternity  of  the  Trinity. 


A  cross.  The  Christian's  life  and  con- 
flict ;  the  death  of  Christ  for  man's  re- 
demption. 

A  crown.  The  reward  of  the  perse- 
verance of  the  saints. 

A  dove.     The  Holy  Ghost. 

A  hand  from  the  clouds.  To  denote 
God  the  Father. 

A  lamb,  Jisli,  pelican,  etc.,  etc.  The 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

A  phirnix.     The  resurrection. 

Emblems  of  the  Jewish  Temple. 

{See  Exod.  xxv.  30-32  ;  Rev.  i.  12-20.) 

Gulden  candleftick.  Tliel'liiii-cli.  Itsseveii  lights, 
tlie  seven  siiirits  of  (Joil.    (Kev.  iv.  li.) 

The  shi'irbiiiid.  'I'lic  twelve  loaves  the  twelve 
trihes  of  Israel,  Iteiiresciited  in  the  (j<isiel 
liy  the  twelve  ajiostles. 

The //in »«!•  of  sweet  sjiiees.  Pra.ver,  wliieh  rises 
to  heaven  as  incense.    (Rev.  viii.  3,  4.) 

The  llidij  uf  Jinhrs.  The  nation  of  the  .lews  as 
Gods  I  eriiliar  iieojile.  Wlieji  the  veil  whieli 
separated  it  fidin  the  teinide  was  "  rent  in 
twain,"  it  signitled  that  thenceforth  Jewsand 
(Jentiles  all  formed  one  iieople  of  (Jod. 

Em'bryo  means  that  which  swells 
inside  something  (Greek,  en-bra'o,  which 
gives  the  Greek  embruon) ;  hence  the 
child  in  the  womb  ;  the  rudiment  in  a 
plant  before  it  shows  itself  in  a  bud  ; 
an  idea  not  develojjcd,  etc. 

Em'elye.  The  sister-in-law  of  "  Duke 
Theseus,"  Ijeloved  by  the  two  knights, 
Pal'amon  and  Ar'cyte,  the  former  of 
whom  had  her  to  wife.  It  is  of  this  lady 
the  poet  says,  "Up  roos  the  sun,  and 
uj)  roos  Emelye  "  (v.  2275). 

'•  This  jiassetli  .veer  h.v  jeer,  and  day  and  day, 
Till  it  fol  ooMos  in  a  nionic  of  .May, 
Tliat  Knii'lie,  that  f.airer  was  to  scene 
Than  is  the  lihe  on  hire  stalkes  tjrem-, 
And    fresstdier   than    the    May   with    flonrlM 

iiewo  .... 
Er  it  was  day,  as  sche  was  wont  to  do, 
Sche  was  arisen." 

Cliuiirtr:  Cdiilrrbiir]/  Tales  (Tlie  h'nighte's  Tale). 

Em'erald  Isle.  Ireland.  This  term 
was  first  used  by  Dr.  Drennaa  (1754- 
1820),  in  the  poem  called  £rin.  Of 
course,  it  refers  to  the  bright  green  ver- 
dure of  the  island. 

"An  emerald  set  in  the  rin?  of  tlic  sea," 

OKuhtauiachree. 
"  Nor  one  feeling  of  vengeance  presume  to  deHle 
The  cause  or  the  men  of  the  Emerald  Isle." 

K.  J.  Drciuian  :  Erin. 

Em'eralds.  Accoi'ding  to  tradition, 
if  a  serpent  fixes  its  eyes  upon  an  emerald 
it  becomes  blind.  {Ahmed  ben  Abdalaziz  : 
Treatise  on  Jewels.) 

Emer'gency.  A  sudden  emerf/enci/ 
is  something  which  starts  suddenly  into 
view,  or  which  rises  suddenly  out  of  the 
current  of  events.  (Latin,  e-mergo,  to 
rise  out  of  "the  water.") 

Emergency  Man  (An).  One  engaged 
for  some  special  service,  as  in  Irish  evic- 
tion^ 


Emetite 


4i; 


Empty 


Emeute  (Trench).  A  setlitious  rising 
or  small  riot.  Literall}',  a  moviug-out. 
(Latin,  c-moc'eo.) 

Emile  ('2  syl.).  The  French  form  of 
Emil'ius.  The  hero  of  Jean  Jacques 
Rousseau's  novel  of  the  same  name,  and 
liis  ideal  of  a  perfectly  educated  young 
man. 

Emilia  (in  Shakespeare's  Othello). 
Wife  of  lago.  She  is  induced  by  her 
husband  to  purloin  Desdemona's  hand- 
kerchief, which  lago  convej's  to  Cassio's 
chamber,  and  tells  the  Moor  that  Desde- 
mo'nahad  given  it  to  the  Lieutenant  as  a 
love-token.  At  the  death  of  Desdemona, 
Emilia  (who,  till  then,  never  suspected 
the  real  state  of  the  case)  reveals  the 
fact,  and  lago  kills  her. 

Until' id.  The  sweetheart  of  Peregrine 
Pickle,  in  Smollett's  novel. 

Emilie  {T/ic  f?(r/«c),towhomVoltau'e 
wrote  verses,  was  Madame  Chu.telet,with 
whom  he  lived  at  Circy  for  ten  years. 

Emmet  contracted  into  Ant :  thus, 
IJiH'l,  cut,  (uit  (Anglo-Saxon,  cemetd). 

"  A  liracclct  made  of  emmets'  eyes." 

Drayton  :  C'uurt  of  fairies. 

Emne.  Your  em  lie  Christen  {Bos- 
irorth),  i.e.  your  even  or  fellow  Christian. 
Shakespeare  (ILimht,  v.  1)  has  "your 
even  Christian."  (Anglo-Saxon,  Emnc- 
cristcii,  fellow- Christian.) 

Emolument.  Literally,  that  which 
comes  out  of  the  mill.  (Latin,  e-mola.) 
It  originally  meant  toll  on  what  was 
ground.     {See  Geist.) 

Emotion.  Literally,  the  movement 
of  the  mind  brought  out  by  something 
which  affects  it.  The  idea  is  this :  The 
mind,  like  electricity,  is  passive  till  some- 
thing occurs  to  aifect  it,  when  it  becomes 
loused  ;  the  active  state  thus  produced  is 
its  emotion,  and  the  result  thereof  is  pas- 
sion or  affection.     (Latin,  c-moveo.) 

Empan'el  or  Impanel  is  to  write  the 
names  of  a  jury  on  a  panel,  or  piece  of 
parchment.  (French,  panneau,  i.e.  pan 
lie peait,  piece  of  skin.) 

Empannel,  To  put  the  pack-saddle 
on  a  beast  of  burden. 

"Saddle  Rozinante,  ami  omiiauuel  tbiue  ass."— 
Don  Quixote,  ii.  3j0. 

Emped'ocles  (1  syl.)  of  Sieili/.  A 
disciple  of  Pythag'oras.  According  to 
Lu'cian,  he  threw  himself  into  the  crater 
of  Etna,  that  jiersons  might  suppose  he 
was  returned  to  the  gods ;  but  Etna 
threw  out  his  sandal,  and  destroyed  the 

27 


illusion.  (Horace  :  Ars  Poetica,  404.) 
(.bVe  Cleombeotos.) 

"  He  who,  to  l;e  deemed 
A  «od,  leai  ed  fondly  iuto  .Etna  flames, 
Eiiipedocles." 

Milton :  Paradise  Lost,  iii.  471. 

Emperor.  Emperor,  not  for  mi/self, 
hnt  for  mil  people.  The  maxim  of  Ha'- 
di'ian,  the  Roman  emperor  (117-138). 

Emperor  of  Believers.  Omar  I., 
father-in-law  of  Mahomet,  and  second 
caliph  of  the  Mussulmans  (.381-644). 

Emperor  of  the  Mountains,  Jcing  of 
the  woods,  and  lord  of  the  hit/htcai/sfrom 
Florence  to  ^S'aples.  A  title  assumed  by 
Peter  the  Calabriau,  a  famous  bandit- 
chief  (1812). 

Empire  City  (The).  New  York,  the 
great    commercial    city   of  the    L^'nited 

States. 

Empire  of  Reason ;  the  Empire  of 

Truth,  etc.,  i.e.  reason  or  truth  as  the 
governing  i)rinciple.  Emjaire  is  the  Latin 
imper'ium,  a  jurisdiction,  nwdanenijieror 
is  one  who  holds  command. 

Em'pirics.  Quacks.  A  school  of 
medicine  founded  by  Serap'ion  of  Alex- 
andria, who  contended  that  it  is  net 
necessary  to  obtain  a  knowledge  of  the 
nature  and  functions  of  the  body  in 
order  to  treat  diseases,  but  that  expe- 
rience is  the  surest  and  best  guide. 
They  were  opposed  to  the  Dogmatics 
(e/.v.).  (Greek,  peirao,  to  try,  which 
gives  the  Greek  empeiria,  experience.) 

"  We  must  not 
So  stain  our  jud^fnient,  or  corrupt  our  hope, 
To  prostitute  our  past-cure  malady 
To  empirics." 
SItalcespeare :  All's  Well  Tliat  Ends  Well,  ii.  1. 

Employe.  (French).     One  in  our  em- 

jiloy  :  such  as  clerks,  shopmen,  servants, 
etc.  Employee,  a  female  emjiloyed  by 
a  master.     Employee,  either  sex. 

"  In  Italy,  all  railroad  employes  are  sulijected  to 
rigorous  examiuation."— i/n/-(«n:  Eyesight,  v.  W. 

"  All  these  etnployees  should  be  women  of  cha- 
racter."— Macmillan's  Magazine  (July,  18Ui',  p.  L'.57). 

Empson.  The  favourite  flageolet - 
player  of  Charles  II.,  introduced  into 
Scott's  Fereril  of  the  Peak. 

"Julian  could  only  bow  obedience,  and  follow 
Empson,  who  was  the  same  person  that  played 
so  rarely  on  the  Hageolet.'"— Chap.  xx.\. 

Empty  as  Air.    (Ang.-Sax.,  wmtig.) 

"  Doad  iuen"s  cries  to  fill  the  empty  air." 

Sliakespeure :  -1  Iliiiry  1/.,  v.  2. 

Empty  Champagne  Bottles.  Fel- 
low-commoners at  Cambridge  used  to 
be  so  called,  their  academical  dress 
being  a  gaudy  purjile  and  silver  gown, 
resembling  the  silver  foil  roimd  the  neck 


Empty  Chance 


418 


End 


of  a  champagne  bottle.  Very  few  of 
these  wealthy  magnates  took  honours. 
Tbo  iiolileniau's  gown  was  silk. 
Empty  Chance.  A  chauce  not 
worth  calculating  on.  The  ace  of  dice 
was,  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  left 
cDipti/,  because  tlie  number  of  dice  was 
equal  to  the  number  of  aces  thrown.  As 
ace  is  the  lowest  chance,  the  empty 
chance  was  the  least  Ukely  to  win. 

Empyre'an.  According  to  Ptolemy, 
there  are  live  lioaveus,  the  last  of  which 
is  pure  elemental  fire  and  the  seat  of 
deity  ;  this  fifth  heaven  is  called  the 
empyrean  (from  the  Greek  cn-2)ur,  in 
fire).     {See  Heavex.) 

"  Now  liail  tlip  AlniiRlity  Fatlier  from  aliove, 
From  tlie  pure  emuyrean  wliere  He  sits 
Hife'li  tliniucd  above  all  lieifbt,  bent  down  liis 
eye."  Milton :  Paradise  Lost,  iii.  St>-.jS. 

And  again,  book  vi.  833  : 

'•  The  steadfast  ciiipyre.in  shook  wilhout." 

En  Evidence  (French).  To  the 
fore. 

"Mr.  has    IjOch  much    en   cridcncc    of 

late  in  the  loMiy  ;  but, as  he  has  no  seat,  his 
chance  of  heing  in  the  ministry  is  very  proble- 
inatical."—-Vc- u'spn/ier  paragraph,  Feljruary,  Itfsii. 

En  Gar9on.  As  a  bachelor.  "To 
take  mo  en  gar(;on,"  without  ceremony, 
as  a  bachelor  fares  in  ordinary  life. 

En  Masse.  The  wliolc  lot  just  as  it 
stands  ;  the  whole. 

En  Rapport.  In  harmony  with  ;  in 
sympatlietic  lines  with. 

En  Route.  On  the  way ;  on  the  road 
or  journey 

Enal'io-saurians  (Gr«ek,  sra-Z/^r/jv/* ). 
A  group  of  fossil  sauriaus,  including  the 
Ich'thyosaur,  Ple'siosaur,  Sauropter'ygy, 
etc.,  etc. 

Encel'ados.  The  most  powerful  of 
the  giants  that  conspired  against  Zeus 
(Jupiter).  The  king  of  gods  and  men 
cast  hint  down,  and  threw  Mount  Etna 
over  him.  The  poets  say  that  the  flames 
of  this  volcano  arise  from  the  breath  of 
this  giant.  The  battle-field  of  his  con- 
test was  Phlcg'ra,  in  Macedonia. 

"  So  fierce  Euceladus  in  Phlegra  stood." 

Hoole :  Jerusalem  Delivered. 
"  I  tell  yon,  younglings,  not  Encelados, 
With   all   his   threafning   band   of   Typhon's 

brood  . . . 
Shall  seize  this  prey  out  of  his  father's  hands.'' 
Shakespeare:  Titus  AndroaiciLs,  iv.  1'. 

Enchanted  Castles.  De  Saint  Foix 
says  that  women  and  girls  were  subject 
to  violence  whenever  tliey  piassed  by  an 
abbey  quite  as  much  as  when  they  ap- 
proached a  feudal  castle.  When  these 
■victims  were  sought  for  and  demanded 


back,  the  monks  would  sustain  a  siege 
rather  than  relinquish  them ;  and,  if 
close  pressed,  would  bring  to  the  walls 
some  sacred  relic,  which  so  awed  the 
assailants  that  they  would  desist  rather 
than  incur  the  risk  of  violating  such  holy 
articles.  This,  he  says,  is  the  origin  of  en- 
chanters, enchantments,  and  enchanted 
castles.     (Historical  Ussai/.s.) 

Enchanter  is  one  who  sings  incanta- 
tions. (Latin,  in -ran  to,  to  sing  over  or 
against  some  one.) 

Encomium.  The  Greek  /.fmios  is  a 
revel  in  honour  of  [Bacchus],  in  which 
the  procession  marches  from  koinl  to 
ki'Diie :  i .e.  village  to  village.  IJ/-/,r>ii/ioi/ 
is  the  hynm  sung  in  these  processions 
in  honour  of  Bacchus ;  hence,  praise, 
eidogy. 

Encore  (French).  Our  use  of  this 
word  is  unknown  to  the  French,  who 
iise  the  word  lis  (twice)  if  they  wish  a 
thing  to  be  repeated.  The  French,  how- 
ever, say  encore  nn  tasse  (another  cup), 
encore  itnc  fois  (still  once  more).  It  is 
strange  how  we  have  perverted  almost 
every  French  word  that  we  have  natu- 
ralised.    {Sec  English  Feench.) 

Encrat'ites  (4  syl.).  A  sect  of  the 
second  century,  who  condemned  mar- 
riage, forbade  eating  flesh  or  drinking 
wine,  and  rejected  all  the  luxuries  and 
comforts  of  life  as  "  things  sinful." 
The  sect  was  founded  by  Ta'tiauj  a 
heretic  of  the  third  century,  who  com- 
l^ilcd  from  four  other  books  what  he 
called  a  Diatessaron — an  heretical  gosisel. 
(See  li/isebius,  book  iv.  chap,  xxix.) 
(Greek,  cr/crates,  self-mastery.) 

*.*  This  heretic  must  not  be  confounded 
with  Tatian  the  philosopher,  a  discijjle 
of  Justin  Martyr,  who  lived  in  the 
second  century. 

Encroach  means  literally  to  i)ut  on 
a  hook,  or  to  hook  on.  Those  who  hook 
on  a  little  here  and  a  little  there. 
(French,  eji  croc,  on  a  hook.) 

End.     (Ang.-Sax.  endc,  verb  enditm.) 

At  my  icits''  end.  At  a  standstill  how 
to  proceed  farther ;  at  a  uon-i^lus. 

l£e  is  no  end  of  a  frlloic.  A  ca^ntal 
chap  ;  a  most  agreeable  companion  ;  an 
A  1  [A  one]  {q.r.).  He  is  an  "  all  round  " 
man,  and  therefore  has  no  end. 

To  he  [o«<''«]  end.  The  cause  or  agent 
of  [his]  death. 

"This  apoplexie  will  1  e  his  end." 

tiliahcspeare :  :.'  Henry  IV.,  iv.  4. 

To  l/(f/in  at  the  wrong  end.  To  attempt 
to  do  something  unmethodically.    This 


End-irons 


419 


England 


is  often  done  in  education,  ■where  chil- 
dren are  taught  grammar  before  they  are 
taught  words.  No  one  on  earth  would 
teach  his  child  to  talk  in  such  a  manner. 
First  talk  anyhow,  and  when  words  are 
familiar,  teach  the  grammar  of  sentences. 
The  allusion  may  be  to  thread  wound 
on  a  card  or  bobbin  ;  if  auj'one  attemjits 
to  unwind  it  at  the  wrong  end,  he  will 
entangle  the  thread  and  be  unable  to 
unwind  it. 

To  come  to  the  end  of  o!ic''s  tether.  To 
do  all  that  one  has  ability  or  liberty  to 
do.  The  allusion  is  to  an  animal  tied 
to  a  rope  ;  he  can  graze  only  so  far  as 
his  tether  can  be  carried  o\it. 

To  have  it  at  my  finger'' s  end.  To  be 
perfectly  an  fait ;  to  remember  perfect!  j', 
and  with  ease;  tanqnam  tuigitis  scire. 
The  allusion  is  to  work  done  with  the 
fingers  (such  as  knitting),  which  needs 
no  thought  after  it  has  become  familiar. 

To  have  it  on  [or  af]  the  tip  of  my 
tongue.     {See  Tip  of  my  Toxgue.) 

A  rope' Si  end.  A  short  length  of  rope 
bound  at  the  end  with  thread,  and  used 
for  punishing  the  refractor}'. 

A  shoemaker'' s  end.  A  length  of  thread 
pointed  with  a  bristle,  and  used  by  shoe- 
makers. 

My  latter  end.  At  the  close  of  life. 
"  At  the  latter  end,"  towards  the  close. 

•'  At  tlje  latter  eiul  of  a  dinnpr." 

Khakcfpidve  :  AtVa  Well,  ctf./n.^. 

On  end.     Erect. 

To  jjut  an  end  to.  To  terminate  or 
cause  to  terminate. 

West  end.  East  end,  etc.  The  quarter 
or  part  of  a  town  east  or  west  of  the 
central  or  middle  part. 

End-irons.  Two  moval^le  iron  cheeks 
or  jilates,  still  used  in  cooking-stoves  to 
enlarge  or  contract  the  grate  at  plea- 
sure. The  temi  explains  itself,  but  must 
not  be  mistaken  for  andirons  or  "  dogs." 

End  Paper.  The  blank  fly-leaves  of 
a  book. 

End  of  the  World  ( Th  e) .  According 
to  rabbinical  mythology,  the  world  is  to 
last  six  thousand  years.  The  reasons 
assigned  are  (1)  because  the  name  Jehova 
contains  six  letters ;  (2)  because  the 
Hebrew  letter  in  occurs  .six  times  in  the 
book  of  Genesis  ;  (3)  because  the  patri- 
arch Enoch,  who  was  taken  to  heaven 
without  d3-ing,  was  the  sixth  generation 
from  Adam  (Seth,  Enos,  Cainaii,  Mahala- 
leel,  Jared,  Enoch);  (4)  because  God 
created  the  world  in  six  days  :  (5)  because 
six  contains  three  binaries — the  first  2000 
years  "were  for  the  law  of  nature,  the 


next  2000  years  the  written  law,  and  the 
last  2000  the  law  of  gi-ace. 

Scveu  wnulil  suit  tliis  fancy  quiteaswell:  tbere 
are  seven  days  in  a  week  ;  Jehovah  contains  seven 
letters  ;  and  Enoch  was  the  seventh  generation  of 
the  race  of  man  ;  and  the  Urst  two  hinaries  wore 
not  enual  periods. 

Ends. 

To  Intrn  the  candle  at  both  ends.  To  be 
like  a  man  on  double  business  boiuid, 
who  both  neglects.  Of  course,  no  candle 
could  burn  at  both  ends,  unless  held  hori- 
zontally, as  the  lower  end  would  be  ex- 
tinguished by  the  melted  wax  or  tallow. 

To  mal;e  tiro  or  botJt  ends  meet.  To 
make  one's  income  cover  expenses ;  to 
keep  out  of  debt.  The  allusion  is  to  a 
belt  somewhat  too  tight.  The  French 
say  joiudre  les  deii.v  boats. 

Endemic.  Pertaining  to  a  locality. 
An  endemic  disease  is  one  common  to  a 
particular  district,  from  which  it  shows 
no  tendency  to  spread.  Thus  intermit- 
tent fevers  are  endemic  in  marshy  places. 

Endorse.  I  endorse  that  statement. 
I  accept  it ;  I  fully  accord  with  it.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  commercial  practice  of 
writing  your  name  on  tlie  back  of  a  bill 
of  exchange  or  i^romissory  note  if  you 
choose  to  make  yourself  responsible  for 
it.     (Latin,  in-dorsiim,  on  the  back.) 

Endym'ion,  in  Greek  mythology, 
is  the  setting  sun  with  which  the  moon  is 
in  love.  Endym'ion  was  condemned  to 
endless  sleep  and  everlasting  youth,  and 
Sele'ne  kisses  him  every  night  on  the 
Latmian  hills. 

"  The  n-.onn  sleeps  with  Endymion, 
And  would  not  he  awaked." 

SJidlcespeiire :  ihrchant  of  Vevice,  v.  1. 

Enemy.  How  goes  the  enemy  ?  or 
JJ'hat  says  the  enemy?  What  o'clock 
is  it':'  Time  is  the  euemj'  of  man,  espe- 
cially of  those  who  are  behind  time. 

Enfant  Terrible  (An)  [lit.,  a  terrible 
child] .     A  moral  or  social  nuisance. 

Enfield  Rifle.  So  called  from  the 
factory  at  Enfield  where  it  is  made. 

Enfilade  (French)  means  literallj'  to 
spin  out ;  to  put  thread  in  [a  needle] , 
as  enfiler  nne  a'lginUc ;  to  string  beads 
by  putting  them  on  a  thread,  as  enfiler 
des  perlcs.  Soldiers  being  compared  to 
thread,  we  get  the  following  metaphors  : 
to  go  through  a  place  as  thread  tlirough 
a  needle— to  string  artillery  by  i^laciug 
it  in  a  line  and  directing  it  against  an 
enemy ;  hence,  to  scour  or  rake  with 
shot. 

England.  Verstegan  quaintly  says 
that  Egbert  was  "chiefly  moved"  to 
call  his  kingdom  England  "in  respect  of 


England  Expects 


420 


Ensign 


Pope  Gregory's  changing  the  name  of 
EiKjcIiscc  into  AiKjdlyke.^^  And  tliis 
"  may  have  moved  our  kings  upon  tlicir 
best  gold  coins  to  set  the  image  of  an 
angel."  {Restitntiun  of  Decayed  Inlelli- 
(jcnce  in  Antiquities  concerning  .  .  .  the 
EnyVii^h  Nation,  p.  147.) 

V  The  Angles  migrated  from  the  east 
of  the  Elbe  to  Sclileswig  (between  the 
Jutes  and  the  Saxons).  They  passed  over 
in  great  numbers  to  Britain  during  the 
r)th  century,  and  in  time  established  the 
kingdoms  of  the  heptarchy. 

England  Expects  that  Every  Man 
will  do  his  Duty.  The  parole  signalli-d 
by  Horatio  Nelson  to  his  tieet  before  the 
battle  of  Trafalgar. 

England's  Darling.  Hereward  the 
Wake,  in  the  time  of  William  the  Con- 
queror. The  "  Camp  of  Refuge  "  was 
established  in  the  Isle  of  Ely,  and  the 
Earl  of  Morcar  joined  it  in  1071.  It  was 
blockaded  for  three  months  by  William, 
and  Hereward  (3  syl.)  with  some  of  his 
followers  escaped. 

Englentyne  (3  syl.).  The  Xonne  or 
Prioress  of  Chaucer's  pilgrims.  An  ad- 
mirable character  sketch.  {Canttrlnn-f/ 
'Tales;  I'rulof/ae,  118-1G4.)     (.S'«' Eloi.) 

English  French.  A  kind  of  per- 
versity seems  to  pervade  many  of  the 
words  which  we  have  borrowed  from  the 
French.  Thus  curate  (French  vicaire)  ; 
Vicar  (French  cure). 

Encore  (French  bin). 

Epergnc  (French  nuriout ) ;  Surtout 
(French  pari/essus). 

Screw  (French  vis),  whereas  the  French 
ecrou  we  call  a  nut ;  and  our  vice  is  eiau 
in  French. 

Some  still  say  a  I'outrance  (French  a 
outranee). 

We  say  double  entendre,  the  French 
a  (hii.r  ententes. 

V  The  reader  will  easily  call  to  mind 
other  examples. 

Englishman.  The  national  nick- 
name of  an  Englishman  is  "a  John 
Bull."  The  nation,  taken  in  the  aggre- 
gate, is  nicknamed  "John  Bull."  The 
French  nickname  for  an  Englishman  is 
' '  Godam' . ' '     {See  Bxtll.  ) 

Englishman's  Castle.  His  house 
is  so  called,  because  so  long  as  a  man 
shuts  himself  up  in  his  own  house,  no 
bailiff  can  break  through  the  door  to 
arrest  him  or  seize  his  goods.  It  is  not 
so  in  Scotland. 

E'nid.  Tlie  daughter  and  only  child 
of  Yn'iol,  and  wife  of  Prince  Geraiut', 


one  of  the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table. 
Ladies  called  her  "Enid  the  Fair,"  but 
the  people  named  her  "  Enid  the  Good." 
{Idi/lls  (if  the  Kimj  :  Gerauit  and  J£nid.) 

Enlightened  Doctor  {The).  Ray- 
mond Lully,  of  Pahiia,  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  men  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury.    (1234-1315.) 

Enniskillens.  The  Gtli  Dragoons  ; 
instituted  1689,  on  account  of  their 
brave  defence  of  the  town  of  Ennis- 
killen,  in  favour  of  William  III. 

*.*  This  cavalry  regiment  must  not  be 
confounded  with  the  Iiiniskilliugs  or 
Old  27th  Foot,  now  called  the  "  1st 
battalion  of  the  Royal  Inniskilliug  Fusi- 
liers," which  is  a  foot  regiment. 

En'nius.  The  Chaucer  or  father  of 
Roman  poets,     (b.c.  239-1(39.) 

'The  Lngitsh  Tnnius.  Layamon,  who 
wrote  a  translation  in  Saxon  of  Wace's 
Itrute. 

'The  French  Ennius.  Guillaume  di 
Lorris  (123;5-G.)),  author  of  the  Ji'ununce 
of  (he  Jiose,  called  the  Itia(/  of  France. 
Somethnes  Jehan  de  Meung  (1260-1320), 
who  wrote  the  continuation  of  the  same 
romance,  is  so  called. 

2'he  Sjxtnish  Ennius.  Juan  de  Mena, 
born  at  Cor'dova.     (1412-56.) 

Enough.  (Anglo-Saxon,  gcnoh  or 
genog.)  Enough  !  Stop  now,  you  have 
said  all  that  is  needful. 

Enough  is  as  good  as  a  feast. 

Latin:  "  Illud  satius  est,  quod  satis 
est. ' ' 

French:  "On  est  assez  riche,  quand 
on  a  le  uecessaire." 

V  At  one  time  Enow  was  used  for 
numbers  reckoned  by  tale,  as  :  There  are 
chairs  enow,  nails  enow,  men  enow,  etc.  ; 
but  now  enough  does  duty  for  both 
words,  and  enow  is  archaic. 

Enscon'ce  (2  syl.).  To  hide  ;  to  put 
under  cover.  Literally,  to  cover  with  a 
sconce,  or  fort.  (German,  schanze,  a  fort ; 
Danish,  sclians  ;  Swedish,  skans  ;  Latin, 
abscondo,  to  hide.) 

Ensemble.  The  tout  ensemble.  The 
general  effect  ;  the  effect  when  the 
whole  is  regarded.     (French.) 

Ensign.     (French,  enseigner.) 

Of  ancient  Athens.     An  owl. 

America.     The  Stars  and  Stripes. 

The  British  Kavg.  The  Union  Jack 
{q.r.).  The  icJiitc  ensign  (Royal  Navy) 
is  the  banner  of  St.  George  with  the  Jack 
cantoned  in  the  first  quarter.  The  red 
ensign  is  that  of  the  merchant  service. 


Ensilage 


421 


Epact 


The  line  eusigu  is  that  of  the  navy 
reserve. 

China.     A  dragon. 

Ancient  Corinth.  A  flying  horse — i.e. 
Peg'asos. 

Ancient  Banes.     A  raven. 

Ancient  Ecjupt.  A  bull,  a  crocodile,  a 
vulture. 

England  (iu  the  Tudor  era).  St, 
George's  cross. 

Ancient  France.  The  capo  of  St. 
Martin  ;  thou  the  oriflaninie. 

2'he  Franks  (Iliiiua'riau).  A  sword 
with  the  j)oiut  ujnvards. 

The  Frcuiks  (Salian).     A  bull's  head. 

llie  Gauls.     A  wolf,  bear,  bull,  cock. 

The  ancient  Lacedemonians.  The  Greek 
capital  letter  L  {lambda  A). 

The  ancient  Jlesse'nians.  The  Greek 
letter  mu  (m). 

77ic  ancient  Persians.  A  golden  eagle 
with  outstretched  wings  on  a  white  field  ; 
a  dove ;  the  sun. 

The  Puisdad'ian  dynasty  of  Persia.  A 
blacksmith's  apron.     {See  Standaed.) 

The  ancient  Romans.  An  eagle  for  the 
legion  ;  a  wolf,  a  horse,  a  boar,  etc. 

liom'ulns.  A  handful  of  hay  or  fern 
(manip'ulus). 

The  ancient  Saxons.    A  trotting  horse. 

The  ancient  Thebans.     A  sphinx. 

The  Tnrks.     Horses'  tails. 

The  ancient  Welsh.     A  dragon. 

Ensilage.  A  method  of  preserving 
green  fodder  by  storing  it  in  mass  under 
pressure  in  deep  trenches  cut  in  a  dry  soil. 

Entail'.  An  entail  is  an  estate  cut 
from  the  power  of  a  testator.  The  tes- 
tator cannot  bequeath  it ;  it  must  go  to 
the  legal  heirs.     (French,  en-tailler.) 

Entangle.  The  Anglo-Saxon  tan 
means  a  twig,  and  twigs  smeared  with 
birdlime  were  used  for  catching  small 
birds,  who  were  "  en-tangled "  or 
twigged. 

Ente'le'chy.  The  kingdom  of  Queen 
Quintessence  in  the  famous  satirical 
romance  of  Rabelais  called  the  Historij 
of  Gargan'tua  and  F'antagrnel'.  Panta- 
gruel  and  his  companions  went  thither 
in  search  of  the  Holy  Bottle.  It  may 
be  called  the  city  of  speculative  science. 

V  The  word  is  used  to  express  the 
realisation  of  a  bean  ideal.  Lovers  have 
preconceived  notions  of  human  perfec- 
tions, and  imagine  that  they  see  the 
realities  in  the  person  beloved,  who  is 
the  entelechy  of  their  bean  idccd. 

"  O  luniiere  I  enrichie 
D'uii  feu  divin,  iiui  iii'avd  si  vivement, 
Pour  uie  donuer  I'etre  et  le  iiioveiuenr, 
Etes-Yous  j'as  nia  seul  eutelechie." 

Jloiii-ard:  sonnet  Cs  (1524-85). 


Enter  a  House  right  Foot  fore- 
most {Petronuis).  It  was  thought 
unlucky  to  enter  a  house  or  to  leave 
one's  chamber  left  foot  foremost.  Au- 
gustus was  very  superstitious  on  this 
Xwint.  Pythagoras  taught  that  it  is 
necessary  to  put  the  shoe  on  the  right 
foot  first.  ' '  When  stretching  forth 
your  feet  to  have  your  sandals  put  on, 
first  extend  your  right  foot"  {Prot rep- 
ties  of  lamblichas,  symbol  xii.).  lam- 
blichus  tells  us  this  symbolised  that 
man's  first  duty  is  reverence  to  the  gods. 

Entering  Short.  When  bills  are 
paid  into  a  banker's  hands  to  receive  the 
amount  when  due,  it  is  called  "  entering 
them  short."  In  this  case,  if  the  banker 
fails,  the  assignees  must  give  them  up. 
Bills  in  the  hands  of  factors  may  be  so 
entered. 

Enthu'siast  is  one  who  believes  that 
he  himself  is  in  God,  or  that  God  is  in 
him  (Greek,  en  thcos).  Our  word  in- 
spired is  very  similar,  being  the  Latin 
in  spiritu  (in  the  spirit). 

Entire.  Ale,  in  contradistinction  to 
"cooper,"  which  is  half  ale  and  half 
porter.     As  Calvert's  entire,  etc. 

Entre  Nous  (French).  Between  you 
and  me  ;  in  confidence. 

N.B. — One  of  the  most  common  vul- 
garisms of  the  better  class  is  "Between 
you  and  I." 

Entree  {To  hare  the).  To  be  eligible 
for  invitations  to  State  balls  and  concerts. 

Entremets  [arn-tre-mag].  Sweet 
foods  or  kickshaws  served  at  table 
between  the  main  dishes,  courses,  or 
removes;  literally,  entre-niets  (French), 
things  put  between.  We  now  use  two 
words,  entrees  and  entrenn'ts,  the  former 
being  subordinate  animal  foods  handed 
round  between  the  main  dishes,  and  the 
latter  being  sweet  made  dishes. 

Eo'lian.  An  Folian  harp.  A  box 
fitted  with  strings,  like  a  fiddle.  The 
strings,  however,  are  not  sounded  by  a 
bow,  but  by  a  current  of  air  or  wind 
passing  over  them. 

"  Awake,  Eolian  liarp,  awake, 
And  five  to  rapture  all  tliy  tremliliriK  strings."' 
Gray:  Proijicss  of  Poetry,  lines  1,  2. 

Eolus.  God  of  the  winds.  {Roman 
mgtliologg.) 

Epact.  The  excess  of  the  solar  over 
the  lunar  j'ear,  the  former  consisting  of 
36o  days,  and  the  latter  of  354,  or  eleven 
days  fewer.  The  epact  of  any  year  is 
the  number  of  days  from  the  last  new 
moon  of  the  old  year  to  the  1st  of  ths 


Epergne 


422 


Episemon 


following    January.       (Greek,    cjMicios, 
feniiiiine  cpacte,  adscititious.) 

Epcr'gne  (2  syl.).  A  large  orna- 
meutal  staud  placed  iu  the  middle  of  a 
diuiug-tablc.  It  is  generally  said  to  be 
a  French  word,  but  the  French  call  such 
an  ornameutal  staud  a  sitrtoiit,  strangely 
adopted  by  us  to  signify  a  frock-coat, 
which  the  French  call  a  jjardc.fsus.  The 
nearest  French  word  is  cparffiic,  saving, 
as  criisse  crcparf/iie,  a  savings  bank;  verb 
('parr/i/cr,  to  spare  or  save.  (<b'(r  Eng- 
lish Fkench.) 

£Sphe'bi.  Youths  between  the  age 
of  eighteen  aud  twenty  were  so  called  at 
Athens.     (Greek,  arrived  at  pubcrtij.) 

Sphe'sian.    A  jovial  conii^auiou  ;    a 

thief  ;  a  roysterer.     A  pun  on  the  verb 

to  iiheese— A-pheeze-iau.    Pheeze  is  to 

flatter. 

"  ]t  i>  thine  liost,  tliine  Eiilicsian,  rall.s." 
,si,:il,-i:^lictirc:  ilanj  Wii'LSnf  Windsor, n.:,. 

Ephesian  Letters.  Magic  charac- 
ters. The  Ephesiaus  were  greatly  ad- 
dicted to  magic.  Magic  characters  were 
marked  on  the  crown,  cincture,  and  feet 
of  Diana  ;  and,  at  the  i^reachiug  of  Paul, 
many  which  used  curious  [magical] 
books  burnt  them.      (Acts  xix.  I'J.) 

'J7ir  Ej)lHxia)i  poet.  Hippo'na.x,  born 
at  Ephcsus  in  the  sixth  century  B.C. 

Eph'ial'tes  (4  syl.).  A  giant  who 
was  deprived  of  his  left  eye  by  Apollo, 
aud  of  his  right  eye  by  Hercules. 

Ephialtes  (4  syl.).  The  nightmare. 
(Greek,  ephialtcs,  an  incubus;  from  tjn- 
halloinai,  to  leap  upon.) 

"  Fcvorisb  symptoms  all,  with  which  those  wlin 
are  haunted  hy  the  nit-'lit-liMu',  wluim  the  learned 
eall  Ephiallei.  are  but  too  well  aeqiiaiuted."— 
,S'(/-  IK.  lifiitt :  Tlic  Antiqitai y,  cliaii.  x. 

Epl'i'ori  or  EpJiors.  Spartan  magis- 
trates, five  in  number,  annually  elected 
from  the  ruling  caste.  They  exercised 
control  even  over  the  kings  and  senate. 

Epic.  '  Father  of  epic  poctr II.  Homer 
(about  950  B.C.),  author  of  the  Iliad  aud 
Ud[/ssc)j. 

■.■  Celebrated  epics  are  the  Iliad. OJysscii,  .Encid, 
rarudise  Lost. 

Tlic  great  Taritan  epic.  Milton's 
Turadise  Lost. 

"  Speaking  of  M.  Dore's  perfornianros  as  an 
illustrator  of  the  great  Puritau  epic."  — T/ic 
Times. 

Ep'icure  (3  syl.).  A  sensualist;  one 
addicted  to  good  eating  aud  drinking. 
So  called  fronr  Epicu'ros  {q.r.). 

Sir  Epicure.  A  worldlj'  sensualist  in 
T/ie  Alchcmi-'it,  by  Ben  Jonson.  His 
surname  is  "  Mammon." 


Epicure'an.  Carnal ;  sensual ;  per- 
taining to  good  eating  aud  drinking. 
{Sec  EncuEOS.) 

T.  Moore  has  a  prose  romance  entitled 
IVie  Epicareaii. 

"  Epicurean  cooks 
Sharjien  wilh  eloyless  sauce  his  appetite." 
Shakcfjiearc:  Antony  (ind  Cleopatra,  ii.  1. 

Epicu'ros.  (Latin  form,  Epioiri/s.) 
The  Greek  j^hilosojiher  who  fouuded  the 
Epicure'an  school.  His  axiom  was  that 
"  happiness  or  enjoyment  is  the  saiiiiiiaiit 
boiiuin  of  life."  His  disciples  corrujited 
his  doctrine  into  "  Gootl  living  is  the 
object  we  should  all  seek,"  or,  according 
to  "the  driuking  song,  ' '  Who  leads  a  good 
life  is  sure  to  live  well." 
"  Ble.st  lie  the  day  I  'scaped  the  wrangling  crew, 
Eroin  Pyrrho's  [</  v.]  maze  aiul  Epicurus'  sty.'' 
Beattie :  Minstrel. 

llic  Epicurus  of  China.  Tao-tse,  who 
commenced  the  search  for  the  "  elixir  of 
life."  Several  of  the  Chinese  emperors 
lost  their  lives  by  drinking  his  "jjotiou 
of  immortality  "  (b.c.  540). 

Epi-dcm'ic  is  from  the  two  Greek 
wortls  rpi-de'iiios  (upon  the  i^eople),  a 
disease  that  attacks  a  number  of  ppn])lo 
at  once,  either  from  bad  air,  bad  drain- 
age, or  other  similar  cause. 

Epigram.  A  short  pointed  or  auti- 
theticttl  poem  ;  or  any  sliort  composition 
ha2ipilj'  or  antithetically  expressed. 

Ep'ilepsy  was  called  by  the  Komaus 
the  (Aiiiiitial  or  Congress  sickness  (mor- 
bus comitia'lis),  because  the  polling  for 
the  comitia  centuria'ta  was  null  aud  voitl 
if  any  voter  was  seized  with  epilepsy 
while  the  votes  were  being  taken. 

Epimen'ides  (5  syl.).  A  philosopher 
of  Crete,  who  fell  asleep  in  a  cave  when 
a  boy,  aud  did  not  wake  agttiu  for  fifty- 
seven  years,  when  he  found  himself 
endowed  with  miraculous  wisdom. 
(Fliny  :  Kataral  llistorij.)  [Sec  EiP 
Vaj!J  Winkle.) 

"Like  Epiiuenides,  I  have  been  sleepjim-  in  a 
cave;  aud, waking, seethose whom  I  leftchihlreu 
are  bearded  n\e]\."—Buliccr  Lyttoit  {I.ord  Lytton). 

Epiphany.  The  time  of  appearance, 
meauiug  the  jjeriod  when  the  star  aj)- 
peared  to  the  wise  men  of  the  East.  The 
(3th  January  is  the  Feast  of  the  Ei^iphany. 
V  The  word  is  not  special  to  Chris- 
tiauit}'.  One  of  the  names  of  Zeus  was 
Epiphanes  (the  manifest  one),  aud  fes- 
tivals in  his  honour  were  called  "  E23ii>h- 
anies."  (Greek,  cpi-phaino,  to  shine 
upon,  to  be  manifest  [in  creation].) 

Epise'mon,  in  Greek  numerals,  is  a 
sign  standing  for  a  numeral.  Thus, 
kiiLayfixov    /3aS,     generally     called    J-'aii, 


Episode 


423 


Era 


Episemon,  stands  for  6,  and  iota-ep'tsemon 
for  16.  There  are  two  other  symbols — 
■viz.  koppa  for  90,  and  sampi  [san-pi] 
for  900.  The  reason  is  this :  The 
Greek  letters  were  used  for  numerals, 
and  were  ranged  iu  three  columns  of 
nine  figures  each  ;  but  24  letters  will  not 
divide  by  9,  so  the  3  symbols,  episemon, 
koppa,  and  sampi  were  added  to  make 
up  3x9.  Col.  1,  from  1  to  20  :  col.  2, 
from  20  to  100  ;  col.  3,  from  100  to  1,000. 

Ban  and  Fan  areidentiral,  the  B  or  F  )>ein«  tbe 
(lijamnia.  Thus  olvo<;  (wino)  was  proiiuuucecl 
fo(«o.<,  called  in  Latin  Vih»hi,  and  woi' (an  egg) 
was  prononnced  0/oJi,  in  Latin  Ovum. 

A  dash  iDider  a  letter  multiplied  it  a 
liundredfold.  Thus,  a  =  1,  but  ct  =  1000. 
For  intermediate  figures  between  full 
tens  a  mark  was  made  a/jore  the  unit. 
Thus  <■  {iot(i)  =  10;  but  i<£  =  10  +  1  =  11, 
'4  =  10  4-  2  ^  12 ;  ly  =  10  +  3  =  13,  and 
so  on. 

Episode  (3  syl.)  is  the  Greek  cpi- 
eis-odos  (coming  in  besides — i.e.  adven- 
titious), meaning  an  adventitious  talc 
introduced  into  the  main  story. 

In  music,  an  intermediate  passage  in 
a  fugue,  wlioreby  the  subject  is  for  a 
time  suspended. 

"In  (irdinary  fnu-nos  ...  it  is  n.^siial  to  tillowa 
oevlain  minilicT  .if  liais  tn  intervene  fnnn  time  tu 
time,  after  whirli  the  suLjeet  is  resumed.  The 
interM'uinu' bars  .  .  .  •■uc  railed  Episodes. "—Ohsc- 
Icft :  CiiiiKli'iixiial,  xxii.  U\:>. 

Epis'tle  is  something  sent  to  another. 
A  letter  sent  by  messenger  or  post. 
(Greek,  (pi-stcUo.) 

Epi-zoot'ic  is  rpi-zooi/  (upon  the  herds 
and  ilocks).  Zoology  is  used  to  signify 
a  treatise  on  animals,  but  we  generally 
exccjrt  man  ;  so  epi-zootic  is  used,  demos 
(man)  not  being  included. 

E'poch  means  that  which  bounds  in 
or  holds  in  hand.  The  starting-jioint  of 
a  sequence  of  events  harnessed  together 
like  a  team  of  horses  ;  also  the  whole 
period  of  time  from  one  eijoch  to 
another.  Our  jjreseut  epoch  is  the  Birth 
of  Christ ;  ^jrevious  to  this  epoch  it  was 
the  Creation  of  the  World.  In  this 
latter  sense  the  word  is  synonymous 
with  era.     (Greek,  epi-eeho.) 

"  The  incarnation  of  Christ  is  tlie  greatest  moral 
cpoeli  in  tlie  universe  of  God."— .SV'cfc^s :  Parables 
Viifuldcd  C  The  Lost  Sheep,"  p.  Iu4i. 

Epode  (2  syl.).  In  the  Greek  epode 
the  chorus  returned  to  their  places  and 
remained  stationary.  It  followed  the 
strophe  (2  syl. ). 

Father  of  ehoral  epode.  Stesichoros  of 
Sicily  (B.C.  632-552). 

Ep'som  Races.  Horse  races  held  in 
May,  and  lasting  four  days.    They  are 


held  on  Epsom  Doivns.  and  were  insti- 
tuted by  Charles  I.  The  second  day 
(Wednesday)  is  the  great  Derby  day,  so 
called  from  Lord  Derby,  who  instituted 
the  stakes  in  1780.  The  fourth  day 
(Friday)  is  called  the  Oaks,  so  called 
from  "Lambert's  Oaks."  The  "Oaks 
Estate"  passed  into  the  Derby  family, 
and  the  twelfth  Earl  of  Derby  estab- 
lished the  stakes. 

V  The  Derby,  the  Oaks,  and  the  St. 
Leger  (held  at  Doncaster)  are  called  the 
Three  Classic  Races.  N.B. — There  are 
other  races  held  at  Epsom  besides  the 
gi-eat  four- day  races  mentioned  above — 
for  instance,  the  City  Suburban  and 
the  Great  Metropolitan  (both  handicap 
races). 

Epsom  Salts.  A  salt  formerly  ob- 
tained by  boiling  down  the  mineral  water 
in  the  vicinity  of  Ei^som,  but  now  chemi- 
cally prepared.  It  is  tlic  sulphate  of 
magnesia. 

Equal -to,  in  mathematics.  Tlie 
symbol  (  =  ),  two  little  parallel  lines,  was 
invented  by  Robert  Recorde,  who  died 
1558. 

"  As  lie  said,  nothing  is  more  ciiual  than  parallel 
line-i." 

Equation  of  Time.  The  difference 
between  mean  and  ajiparcnt  time — i.e. 
the  difference  between  the  time  as  shown 
by  a  good  clock  and  that  indicated  by 
a  sundial.  The  greatest  difference  is  in 
November,  at  the  beginning  of  which 
mouth  the  sun  is  somewhat  more  than 
sixteen  minutes  too  slow.  There  are 
days  in  December,  April,  June,  and 
September  w'heu  the  sun  and  the  clocks 
agree. 

Eques  Aura'tus.  A  knight  bachelor, 
called  aura'tus  because  he  was  allowecl 
to  gild  his  armour— a  privilege  confined 
to  knights. 

Eq'uipage  (3  syl.).  Tea  equipage. 
A  complete  tea-service.  To  equip  means 
to  arm  or  furnish,  and  equij)age  is  the 
furniture  of  a  military  man  or  body  of 
troops.  Hence  camp  ecjidpaf/c  (till  things 
necessary  for  an  encampment)  ;  Ji<-/d 
cquipar/c  (all  things  necessary  for  the 
field  of  battle)  ;  a  prince's  equipage,  and 
so  on. 

Equity.     {See  AsTEiEA.) 

Era.  A  series  of  years  beginning 
from  some  epoch  or  starting-j)oint,  as : 

B.C. 

The  Era  of  the  Greek  Olympiads     . .  77t"> 

„           the  Foundation  of  Rome  7.5.'5 

,,           Nabonassar 747 

„           Alexander  the  Great     ..  .3i'4 

„           the  Seleucldx 313 

,,          Julian  Era 45 


Eraclius 


424 


Ermine  Street 


H  The  Mundane  Era,  or  the  number 
of  years  between  the  Creation  and  the 
Nativity : 

According  to  tlic  modern  Greek  Calciular  7,388 

„  .losepLiMS 7,"-'8j' 

„  Scalif-'cr      5,SM 

„  Ibe  ancient  Greek  I'hurr-li  r.,508 

.       „  I'rofessor  Hales     5,411 

„  li'art  de  Verifier  les  Date.-i  -i.'MX 

„  ArclihisUoi)  L'sslier     ..    ..  -i.iwi 

„  Calniot         4.1100 

„  the  Jews     3,7ou 

U  Other  Eras: 

The  Era  of  Aliraliam  starts  from  Oct.  1,  B.C.  -jnie. 
„  Actium  starts  from  Jau.  1,  ii.r.  3o. 

.,  Alexander,  or  of  tlie  Lagldie,  starts 

from  Nov.  13,  R.c.  3:;4. 
„  American  ludeiiondeuce,  July  4,  a.d. 

1778. 
„  Augustus,  B.C.  27. 

„  Diocletian,  Aug.  29.  A.D.  284. 

„  Tyre,  Oct.  19,  B.C.  123. 

„  the  Chinese,  B.C.  2697. 

„  the   French  Republic,  Sept.  22,  .v.n. 

1792. 
„  the  HcLr'ira.  .Tuly  IB,  A.D.  622. 

(The  flight  of  Jlahofuet  from  Mecca.) 
„  the  JIaicaliees,  n.c.  166. 

„  the  Martyrs,  Feb.  2.1,  A.D.  31.3. 

H  The  Christian  Era  begins  from  the 
birth  of  Christ. 

Erac'lius,  the  emperor,  coudemnecl  a 
knight  to  death  because  the  companion 
who  went  out  with  him  returned  not. 
"Thou  hast  .slain  thy  fellow,"  said  the 
emperor,  "and  must  die.  Go,"  con- 
tinued he,  to  another  knight,  "  and  lead 
him  to  death."  On  their  way  they  met 
the  knight  supj)0sed  to  be  dead,  and 
returned  to  Eraclius,  who,  instead  of 
revoking  his  sentence,  ordered  all  three 
to  be  put  to  death — the  first  because  he 
had  already  condemned  him  to  death  ; 
the  second  because  he  had  disobeyed  his 
orders ;  and  the  third  because  he  was 
the  real  cause  of  the  death  of  the  other 
two.  Chaucer  tells  this  anecdote  in  his 
iSoii/piionrcs  Talc.  It  is  told  of  Cornelius 
Piso  by  Sene'ca  in  his  Dc  Ira,  lib.  i.  16  ; 
but  in  the  Gesla  Jxoiiicnio'riiin  it  is  ascribed 
to  Eraclius. 

Eras'tians.  The  followers  of  Thomas 
Lieber,  Latinised  into  Erastus,  a  Ger- 
man "heretic"  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury.    (1.524-1583.) 

Eras'tianism.  State  supremacy  or 
interference  in  ecclesiastical  affairs. 
Thus  the  Church  of  England  is  some- 
times called  "  Erastian,"  because  the 
two  Houses  of  Parliament  can  interfere 
in  its  ritual  and  temporalities,  and  the 
sovereign,  as  the  "  head  "  of  it,  appoints 
bishops  and  other  dignitaries  thereof. 

E'rebus.  Darkness.  The  gloomy 
cavern  underground  through  which  the 
Shades  had  to  walk  in  their  passage  to 


Hades.      "  A  valley  of  the  shadow  of 
death." 

"  Not  Erebus  itself  were  diin  enough 
To  hide  thee  from  prevention.'' 

miakc^pecire  :  Juliite  Cwsar,  ii.'X 

Eret'rian.  T/ie  Eirtrimi  bull.  Meue- 
de'mos  of  Eret'ria,  in  Euboea ;  a  Greek 
ishilosopher  of  the  fourth  century  B.C., 
and  founder  of  the  Eretri;m  school, 
which  was  a  branch  of  the  Socrat'ic. 
He  was  called  a  "bull"  from  the  bull- 
like gravity  of  his  face. 

Eri'gena.  John  Scotus,  called  "  Sco- 
tus  the  Wi.se,"  who  died  88().  He  must 
not  be  confounded  with  Dims  Scott  us 
the  schoolman,  who  lived  some  four 
centuries  after  him  (1205-1308). 

Erin.    Ireland  (q.r.). 

Erin'nys  or  Hrlu'i/s.  The  goddess  of 
vengeance,  one  of  the  Furies.     {Greek 

nnjtholvgii.) 

Eriph'ila.  The  personification  of 
avarice,  who  guards  the  path  that  leads 
to  pleasure,  in  Orlando  Itirioso,  vi.  CI. 

Erix,  son  of  Goliah  (.s(>)  and  grand- 
son of  Atlas.  He  invented  legerdemain. 
{Buchat :  (Euvres  de  liahclain  ;  1711.) 

Erl-king.  King  of  the  elves,  who 
prepares  mischief  for  children,  and  even 
deceives  men  with  his  seductions.  He  is 
said  to  haunt  the  Black  Forest. 

Er'meline  {Dame).  Eeynard's  wife, 
in  the  tale  of  licijnard  the  I'ox. 

Ermie'nes  (4  syl.).  A  renegade 
Christian,  whose  name  was  Clement. 
He  was  entrusted  with  the  command  of 
the  caliph's  "regal  host,"  and  was  slain 
by  Godfrey.  {Tasso :  Jcrasakiii  De- 
livered.) 

Er'mine  or  Hermine.  Littrc  de- 
rives the  word  from  Armenia,  and  saj's 
it  is  the  "Pontic  rat"  mentioned  by 
Pliny ;  if  so,  the  better  spelling  would 
be  "  Arniine."  Prof.  Skeat  derives  the 
word  from  the  French  /t ermine,  through 
/larino,  the  ermine,  stoat,  or  weazel.  The 
ennine  is  technically  called  the  Mufitvla 
erminca. 

Er'mine  Street.  One  of  the  four 
great  public  ways  made  in  England  by 
the  Romans.  The  other  three  are  li'at- 
liiHf  tStrert,  Ikciiild  Street,  and  the  Fosse. 
Gerraan'icus  derives  Ermin  from  Hermes, 
■whence  Trmii/s/dl  (a  column  of  Mercury), 
because  Mercury  presided  over  public 
roads.  This  is  not  correct ;  Irminsul,  or 
rather  EiTiiensal,  is  the  Scandinnvian 
Odin,  not  a  "Column  of  Mercury"  at 


Erminia 


425 


Escapade 


all ;    and  Erming  Street  really  means 
Odin's  Street. 

"  Fair  weyes  many  on  tbei-  ben  in  EnRlond, 
But  foul'  most  of  all  lien  zuuderstonil  ,  .  . 
Fram  tlie  south  into  the  north  taliit  Ermino- 

Mretc  ; 
Fram  the  east  into  the  west  proeth  Iknield-strele ; 
Fram  south-est  [east]  to  North-west  (that  is 

sum  del  grete) 
Fram  Dorer  [Dover]  into  Chestre  go'th  Watliiiri- 

aireU  ; 
The  forth  is  most  of  all  that  tills  from  Totc- 

neys— 
Fram  the  one  end  of  Cornwall  auon  to  Catouays 

[Caithness]— 
Fram  the  soutli  to  North-ost  into  Englondes  end 
Fusne  men  callith  thisk  voix." 

Robert  of  Gloucester. 

Ermin'ia.  The  heroine  of  Jerusalem 
I)eHrered.  When  her  father,  the  King 
of  Antioch,  was  slain  at  the  siege  of 
Autioch,  and  Erminia  fell  captive  into 
tlie  crusader's  hands,  Tancred  gave  her 
her  libertj%  and  restored  to  her  all  her 
father's  treasures.  This  generous  con- 
duct quite  captivated  her  heart,  and  she 
fell  in  love  with  the  Christian  prince. 
Al'adine,  King  of  Jerusalem,  took  charge 
of  her.  When  the  Christian  anny  be- 
sieged Jerusalem,  she  dressed  herself  in 
Clorinda's  annour  to  go  to  Tancred,  but, 
being  discovered,  fled,  and  lived  awhile 
with  some  shepherds  on  the  banks  of  the 
Jordan.  Meeting  with  Vafri'uo,  sent  as 
a  secret  spy  by  the  crusaders,  she  re- 
vealed to  him  the  design  against  the  life 
of  Godfrey,  and,  returning  with  him 
to  the  Christian  camp,  found  Tancred 
wounded.  She  cured  his  wounds,  so 
tliat  he  was  able  to  take  jiart  in  the  last 
great  day  of  the  siege.  We  are  not  told 
the  ultimate  fate  of  this  fair  Syrian. 

Erna'ni.  The  bandit-captain,  Duke 
of  Segor'bia  and  Cardo'ua,  Lord  of  Ar'a- 
gon,  and  Count  of  Ernani,  in  love  with 
Elvi'ra,  who  is  betrothed  to  Don  Euy 
Gomez  de  Silva,  an  old  Spanish  grandee, 
whom  she  detests,  Charles  V.  of  Spain 
also  loves  her,  and  tries  to  win  her. 
Silva,  finding  that  the  king  has  been 
tampering  with  his  betrothed,  joins  the 
league  of  Ernani  against  the  king.  The 
king  in  concealment  overhears  the  plot- 
ters, and,  at  a  given  signal,  they  are 
arrested  by  his  guards,  but,  at  the  inter- 
cession of  Elvira,  are  pardoned  and  set 
free.  Erna'ni  is  on  the  point  of  marrj^- 
ing  Elvira,  when  a  horn  is  heard.  This 
horn  Ernani  had  given  to  Silva  when  he 
joined  the  league,  saying,  "  Sound  but 
this  horn,  and  at  that  moment  Ernani 
will  pease  to  live."  Silva  insists  on  the 
fultilment  of  the  compact,  and  Ernani 
stabs  himself.    {Verdi's  opera  of  Ernani.) 

Ernest  (Duke).  A  poetical  romance 
by  Henry  of  Veldig  (Waldeck),  con- 
temporary with  Frederick  Barbarossa. 


Duke  Ernest  is  son-in-law  of  Kaiser 
Kourad  II.  Having  murdered  his  feudal 
lord,  he  went  on  a  pilgrimage  to  the  Holy 
Land  to  expiate  his  crime,  and  the  poem 
describes  his  adventures  on  the  way.  It 
is  a  mi.xture  of  Homeric  and  Oriental 
myths,  and  the  tales  of  crusaders.  Duke 
Ernest  fulfilled  his  i^ilgrimage,  returned 
to  Germany,  and  received  absolution. 

Eros,  the  Greek  equivalent  to  Cupid. 

Eros'tratus.  The  man  who  set  fire 
to  the  temple  of  Diana  in  Ephesus,  on 
the  day  Alexander  the  Great  was  born. 
This  he  did  to  make  his  name  immort;il. 
In  order  to  defeat  his  vainglory,  the 
Ephesians  forbade  his  name  to  be  men- 
tioned, but  such  a  i)rohibition  would  be 
sure  to  defeat  its  object. 

Erra-Pater.  An  almanack.  William 
Lilly,  the  almanack-maker  and  astro- 
loger, is  so  called  by  Butler.  It  is  said 
to  have  been  the  "  name  "  of  an  eminent 
Jewish  astrologer.  {Hallkvell :  Arcliaic 
Dietionarii.) 

"  In  mathematics  he  was  greater 
Than  Tycho  Brahe  or  Erra  Pater.'' 

Butler:  Hudihrus,  i.  1. 

Erse  (1  syl.).  The  native  language  of 
the  West  Highlanders  of  Scotland,  who 
are  of  Irish  origin.  It  is  a  variant  of 
Irish.  Apx^lied  by  the  Scotch  Low- 
landers  to  the  Highland  dialect  of 
Gaelic.  In  the  eighteenth  century  Scotch 
was  often  called  Erse,  without  distinc- 
tion of  Highland  and  Lowland ;  and 
Irish  was  spoken  of  as  Irish  Gaelic.  The 
practice  now  is  to  limit  the  word  L'rsc  to 
Iri.sh,  and  Gaelic  to  Scotch  Highlanders. 

Er'udite.  Most  erudite  of  the  Romans. 
Marcus  Terentius  Varro,  a  man  of  vast 
and  varied  erudition  in  almost  every  de- 
partment of  literature,     (b.c.  116-27.) 

Erythre'os.     (*eHoESE.) 

Erythynus.  Hare  no  doinf/s  vith  (he 
Eri/t/ii/nns.  This  is  the  thirty-third 
Symbol  of  the  Protreptics  of  lamblichus. 
The  Erythyntis  is  a  fish  called  by  Pliny 
(ix.  77)  eri/thrxuns,  a  red  fish  with  a. 
white  belly.  Pythagoras  used  this  fish 
as  a  symbol  of  a  braggadocio,  which  has 
a  lily  liver.  Have  no  doings  with  those 
who  are  tongue-doughty,  but  have  white 
stomachs  (where  stomach  means  true 
courage). 

Escapa'de  (3  syl.).  French.  Means 
literally  an  escape  [from  restraint]  ; 
hence  a  spree,  lark,  or  prank.  (Sjjaiiish, 
escapar,  cscetpada.) 

"  His  second  escapade  was  made  for  tlio  purpose 
of  visiting  the  field  of  RuUion  Green. "—Scott; 
Guy  Maniierivfi,  xx.'cvi, 


Esclandre 


426 


Essex  Stile 


Esclandre.  An  event  which  gives 
rise  to  scandal.  "By  the  famous  Bou- 
logne esclandre." 

"  since  tUe  last '  esclriiidre '  lie  had  held  little  m' 
no  coniimiuication  witli  hcv."  —  Lddij  Ucibcit: 
Edith,  IS. 

Escu'age  (3  syl.)  mccans  "  shield 
service,"  and  is  applied  to  that  obliga- 
tion which  bound  a  vassal  to  follow  his 
lord  to  war  at  his  own  private  charge. 
(French,  cscii,  ecu,  a  shield.) 

Escula'pios  (Latin,  Escitlapu(k).  A 
disciple  of  Escul((piHs  means  a  medical 
student.  Escida'pian,  medical.  Escu- 
la'pios,  in  Homer,  is  a  "blameless  phy- 
sician," whose  sous  were  the  medical 
attendants  of  the  Greek  army.  Subse- 
quentlj%  he  was  held  to  be  the  "  god  of 
the  medical  art." 

Escu'rial.  The  palace  of  the  Si^anish 
sovereigns,  about  fifteen  miles  north- 
west of  Madrid.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
sui)erb  structures  in  Europe,  but  is  built 
among  rocks,  as  the  nauie  signifies. 

Escutcheon  of  Pretence  {A)i). 
That  of  a  wife,  either  heiress  or  co- 
heiress, jilaced  in  the  ceutre  of  her  hus- 
band's shield. 

Esin'gse.  A  iitle  given  to  the  kings 
of  Kent,  from  Ese,  their  first  king, 
sometimes  called  Ochta. 

Esmc-nd  (JTci/ri/).  A  chivalrous 
cavalier  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Anne. 
The  hero  of  Thackeray's  novel  entitled 
Emuoiid. 

Esoteric  (Greek,  those  tcilhiii). 
Exoteric,  those  without.  The  term  ori- 
ginated with  Pythag'oras,  who  stood 
behind  a  curtaiu  when  he  gave  his  lec- 
tures. Those  who  were  allowed  to 
attend  the  lectures,  but  not  to  see  his 
face,  he  called  his  exoteric  disciples  ;  bat 
those  who  were  allowed  to  enter  the  veil, 
his  esoteric. 

Aristotle  adopted  the  same  terms, 
though  he  did  not  lecture  behind  a  cur- 
tain. He  called  those  who  attended  his 
evening  lectures,  which  were  of  a  popu- 
lar character,  his  e.roterics  ;  and  those 
who  attended  Iiis  more  abstruse  morning 
lectures,  his  esoterics. 

Espiet  (Es-pe-fi) .  Nephew  of  Oriande 
la  Fee.  A  dwarf,  not  more  than  three 
feet  high,  with  yellow  hair  as  fine  as 
gold,  aud  though  above  a  hundred  years 
old,  a  seeming  child  of  seven.  He  was 
one  of  the  falsest  knaves  in  the  world, 
aud  knew  every  kind  of  enchantment. 
{Itontaiiee  of  Maiir/is  d'Aijgremoiit  et  de 
Viviason  frere.) 


Esplan'dian.  Son  of  Am'adis  and 
Oria'ua.  He  is  the  hero  of  Montalvo's 
continuation  oiAiiiadis,  called  Tlie  Fifth 
Book. 

Esprit  de  Corps.  Fellow-feelmg 
for  the  society  with  which  you  are  asso- 
ciated. A  military  term — every  soldier 
will  stand  up  for  his  own  corps. 

Esprit  Follet.  A  bogle  wliich  de- 
lights in  misleading  and  tormenting 
mortals. 

Esquire.  One  wlio  carried  the  escit, 
or  shield  of  a  knight.  (Latin,  scut'iger, 
a  shield-bearer.) 

Copij  of  a  letter  from  C.  H.  Athill,  Esq., 
"  liichiiiond  J[erahV\- — 

'•  Herald's  College,  E.C.,  January  i'Gtli,  1893. 
"  Tlie  f  oUinving  i>erdons  are  legally '  Esquires  ':— 
"Tlic  sons  (if  peers,  the  sons  of  baronets,  the 
sons  of  knights,  the  eldest  sons  of  llie  younger 
sons  i.f  peers,  and  their  eldest  sons  in  periietuitv, 
fheehlest  sou  of  the  elilest  son  of  a  knight,  and 
his  eldest  son  in  perpetuity,  the  kings  of  arms, 
the  heralds  of  arms,  officers  of  the  Army  or  Navy 
of  the  rank  of  captain  and  upwards,  sheriffs  of 
counties  for  life,  .I.r.'s  of  counties  whilst  in  coni- 
inission,  serjeants-at-law,  Queen's  counsel,  ser- 
jeants-at-arms, ('ouu>auions  of  the  Orders  of 
Knighthood,  certain  principal  otfli-ers  in  the 
Oueen's  houseliold,  deiuity  lietitenants,  commis- 
sioners of  the  Court  of  Bankruptcy,  masters  of 
the  Supreme  Court,  those  whom  the  (^Uu'en,  in  any 
conunission  or  warrant,  styles  rsiiiiui',  and  any 
person  who,  in  virtue  of  his  oMice,  takes  preced- 
ence of  e-squires." 

V  Add  to  these,  graduates  of  the  uni- 
versities not  in  holy  orders. 

Es'says.  Lord  Bacon's  essays  were 
the  first  in  English  that  boi'e  the  name. 

"To  write  just  treatises  reciuireth  leisure  in  the 
writer  and  leisure  in  the  reader  .  .  .  which  is  the 
cause  which  hath  made  me  choose  to  write  certain 
brief  notes  .  .  .  which  I  have  called  essays."— 
Dedication  to  Prince  Jlenrij. 

Esse'nes  (2  syl.).  A  sect  among  the 
Jews  in  the  time  of  our  Savioiu'.  They 
were  communists  who  alijured  every  sort 
of  fleshly  indulgence.  They  ate  no  ani- 
mal food,  and  drank  only  water.  Their 
sacrifices  to  God  were  oidy  fruits  of  tlie 
earth.  They  kept  the  Sabbath  so  strictly 
that  they  would  not  even  wash  a  plate  or 
liuse  a  cup  on  that  da}'.  They  always 
dressed  in  white,  took  no  part  in  public 
matters,  but  devoted  themselves  to  con- 
templative studies.  They  held  the  Jew- 
ish Scriptures  in  great  reverence,  but 
interpreted  them  allegorically. 

Essex.  East  seaxe  (the  territory  of 
the  East  Saxons). 

Essex  Lions.  Calves,  for  which  the 
county  is  famous, 

Valiant  as  an  Essex  lion  (ironical). 

Essex  Stile.  A  ditch.  As  Essex  is 
very  marshy,  it  abounds  in  ditches,  and 
has  very  few  stiles. 


Est-il-possible 


427 


Ethnic  Plot 


Est-il-possible.  A  nickname  of 
Prince  George  of  Denmark,  given  him 
by  James  II.  The  story  goes  that 
James,  speaking  of  those  wlio  had  de- 
serted his  standard,  conchided  the  cata- 
logue with  tliese  words,  "And  who  do 
you  think  besides  '■:  Wlij'.  little  Est-il- 
possible,  my  worthy  son-in-law. "  James 
applied  this  cognomen  to  the  prince 
because,  wlien  George  was  told  of  his 
father-in-law's  abdication,  all  he  did 
was  to  exclaim,  ''  Est-il-possible  r  "  and 
when  told,  further,  of  the  several  noble- 
men who  had  fallen  away  from  him, 
"  Est-il-possible 'r  "  exhausted  his  in- 
dignation. 

Kstafette  (French  ;  Spanish,  c»ta- 
fi'tii).  Military  couriers  sent  express. 
Their  duty  is  to  deliver  the  dispatches 
consigned  to  them  to  the  postillions  ap- 
jjointed  to  receive  them. 

Estates.  Estates  of  the  realm.  The 
piowers  that  have  the  administration  of 
affairs  in  their  hands.  The  three  estates 
of  our  own  realm  are  the  Lords  Spiritual, 
the  Lords  Temporal,  and  the  Commons  ; 
popularly  speaking,  the  j)ublic  press  is 
tenned  the  fourth  estate.  It  is  a  great 
mistake  to  call  the  tliree  estates  of  Eng- 
land the  Sovereign,  the  Lords,  and  the 
Commons,  as  many  do.  The  word  means 
that  on  which  the  realm  stands.  (Latin, 
uto,  to  stand.)     {>iee  Fourth  Estate.) 

"  Henul  .  .  .  made  a  supiier  to  lii?  .  .  .  chief 
estates."— Mark  vi.  il. 

"The  kins:  and  the  three  estates  of  the  realm 
assembled  in  iiarliameut."— CWfecf /ur  JVot.  5. 

Este.  The  house  of  Este  had  for  their 
armorial  bearing  a  white  eagle  on  an 
azure  shield.  Rinaldo,  in  Jcnisalcin  Dc- 
tircred,  adoj)ted  this  device ;  andAriosto, 
in  his  Orlando  Furioso,  gives  it  both  to 
Mandricardo  and  Eoge'ro,  adding  that  it 
was  borne  by  Trojan  Hector.  As  the 
Didoes  of  Brunswick  are  a  branch  of  the 
house  of  Este,  our  Queen  is  a  descend- 
ant of  the  same  noble  family. 

D'Este  was  the  surname  adopted  by 
the  children  of  the  Duke  of  Sussex  and 
Lady  Augusta  Murray. 

Estot'iland.  An  imaginary  tract  of 
land  near  the  Ai-ctic  Circle  in  North 
America,  said  to  have  been  discovered 
by  John  Scalve,  a  Pole. 

"  The  snow 
From  cold  Estotihind." 

Milton:  Paradise  Lout,  x.  085. 

Estraina9on  (French).  A  blow  or 
cut  with  a  sword,  hence  also  "  estra- 
mac^ouuer,"  to  play  at  backsword.  Sir 
Walter  Scott  uses  the  word  in  the  sense 


of  a  feint  or  pretended  cut.  Hence  Six" 
Jeffrey  Hudson,  the  dwarf,  says:^ 

'•  I  tripi'eda  hasty  morris  .  .  .  uiion  the  dininc- 
talde,  now  offering  my  sword  [to  the  Dtikc  of 
UuckiiiKham],  and  now  recovering'  ii,  I  made  .  . 
a  sort  of  estran)a<;on  at  his  nose,  tlie  dexterity  of 
which  consists  in  coming'  mightily  near  to  the 
ohject  without  touching  \t"—Feveiil  uf  the  Peak, 
chaii.  XXX  iv. 

Estrich  Wool  is  the  soft  down  of 
the  estrich,  called  in  French,  diirct  d' 
aatrieJie.  It  lies  immediately  under  the 
feathers  of  the  ostrich. 

Estrildis  or  Estrild.  Daughter  of  a 
German  king,  and  handmaid  to  the 
mythical  King  Humber.  When  Humber 
was  drowned  in  the  river  that  bears  his 
name.  King  Locrin  fell  in  love  with 
Estrildis,  and  would  have  manied  her, 
had  he  not  been  betrothed  already  to 
Guendoloe'na ;  however,  he  kept  Es- 
trildis for  seven  j^ears  in  a  palace  imiler- 
groimd,  and  had  by  her  a  daugliter 
named  Sabri'na.  After  the  death  of 
Locrin,  Guendaloe'na  threw  both  Es- 
trildis and  Sabri'na  into  the  Severn. 
{Geoffrey :  British  Histonj,  ii.  ch.  ii. -v. ) 

Estuary.  Literally,  the  boiling 
place  ;  the  mouth  of  a  river  is  so  called 
because  the  water  there  seems  to  seethe 
and  boil.     (Latin,  ustno,  to  boil.) 

Eternal  City  (The).  Rome.  Virgil 
makes  Jupiter  tell  Venus  he  would  give 
to  the  Homans  iiiipe'riaiii  siiiij  Jiite  (an 
eternal  empire).     {.-Ei/eid,  i.  79.) 

Eternal  Fitness  of  Things.     The 

congi-uity  between  an  action  and  the 
agent. 

"Can  any  man  have  a  hiffher  notion  of  lliernle 
of  rii-'ht.  and  tlie  eternal  fitness  of  thin^js  ?"— 
I'ieldiiiij  :  Tom  Junes,  hook  iv.  chap.  iv. 

Eternal  Tables.  A  white  pearl, 
extending  from  east  to  west,  and  from 
heaven  to  earth,  on  which,  according  to 
Mahomet,  God  has  recorded  every  event, 
past,  present,  and  to  come. 

Etesian  Wind  (A/i).  "  Etesia/lahra 
Aqiiiloriai))"  says  Lucretius  (v.  741).  A 
wind  which  rises  annually  abotit  the 
dog-da3's,  and  blows  forty  daj's  together 
in  the  same  direction.  It  is  a  gentle  and 
mild  wind.     (Greek,  trijo-io;,  annual.) 

"  Deem  not,  good  Porteus,  that  in  this  my  sou^' 
I  mean  to  barrow  nv  thy  humble  mind, 
And  stay  that  voice  in  London  known  so  limjj  ; 
For  balm  and  softness,  an  Etesian  wind." 

Peter  Pindar:  Nil  Admiraro. 

Eth'nic  Plot.     The  Popish  plot.     In 

Drydeu's  satire  oi  Absalom  and  Aehifo- 
phel,  Charles  II.  is  called  David,  the 
royalists  are  called  the  Jews,  and  the 
Papists    Gentiles    or    Ethuoi,    whence 


Ethnophrones 


428 


Eulen- Spiegel 


"Ethnic  plot"    means  the    Gentile   or 
Popish  plot. 

"  Saw  with  disdain  an  Ethnic  jilnt  liesun  .  .  . 
'Gainst  form  and  order  tliey  their  power  enijdoy, 
Nothing  lo  Iniild,  and  all  thinws  to  destroy." 

Part  i.  51S,  ja:;-3. 
Ethnoph 'rones  (4  syl.).  A  sect  of 
heretics  of  tlie  seventeenth  century,  who 
practised  the  observances  of  the  ancient 
Pagans.  (Greek,  ethuos-phreii,  heathen- 
minded.) 

E'thon.  Tlie  eagle  or  vulture  that 
gnawed  the  liver  of  Prome'theus. 

Etiquette  (3  syl.).  The  usages  of 
l^olito  society.  The  word  means  a  ticket 
or  card,  and  refers  to  the  ancient  custom 
of  delivering  a  card  of  directions  and 
regulations  to  be  observed  by  all  those 
who  attended  court.  The  original  use 
was  a  soldier's  billet.  (French,  etiquette  ; 
Spanish,  etiqueta,  a  book  of  court  cere- 
monies. ) 

"EtiiiHi'tte  .  .  .  had  its  original  application  to 
those  ceremonial  and  formal  oliservances  prac- 
tised at  Court.  .  .  .  The  term  came  afterwards 
...  to  signify  certain  formal  methods  used  in  the 
transactions  between  Sovereign  States."— idrAc  ; 
^Yvrks,  vol.  viii.  p.  3i'l». 

Etna.  Virgil  ascribes  its  erudition  to 
the  restlessness  of  Enceiadus,  a  hundred- 
headed  giant,  who  lies  buried  under  the 
mountain.  (^^.V.  iii.  578,  etc.)  In  Etna 
the  Greek  and  Latin  poets  place  the 
forges  of  Vulcau  and  the  smithy  of  the 
Cyclops. 

Etrenn'es  (2  syl.).  Xew-year's gifts 
are  so  called  in  France.  Stren'ia,  the 
Roman  goddess,  had  the  superintendence 
of  new-year's  gifts,  which  the  Romans 
called  stiriuc.  Ta'tius  entered  Rome  on 
New-year's  Day,  and  received  from 
some  augurs  imlms  cut  from  the  sacred 
grove,  dedicated  to  the  goddess  Strenia. 
Having  succeeded,  he  ordained  that  tlie 
1st  of  January  should  be  celebrated  by 
gifts  to  be  called  strciur,  consisting  of 
ngs,  dates,  and  honey  ;  and  that  no  word 
of  ill  omen  should  be  uttered  on  that 
day. 

Ettrick  Shepherd.  James  Hogg, 
the  Scotch  poet,  who  was  born  in  the 
forest  of  Ettrick,  Selkirkshire.  (1772- 
1835.) 

'•  Tlie  Ettrick  Shepherd  was  mv  u-iiide." 

]Ynnl)<irorlh. 

Etzel — i.e.  ^itiJa.  King  of  the  Huns, 
a  monarch  ruling  over  three  kingdoms 
and  more  than  thirty  principalities ; 
being  a  widower,  he  married  Kriemhild, 
the  widow  of  Siegfried.  In  the  Nibeliin- 
gen-Lied,  where  he  is  introduced  (part 
ii.),  he  is  made  very  insignificant,  and 
gees  his  liegemen,  and  even  his  son  and 


heir,  struck  down  without  any  effort  to 
save  them,  or  avenge  their  destruction. 
He  is  as  unlike  the  Attila  of  history  as 
possible. 

Eu'charis,  iu  Ft'nelon's  Telemeique, 
is  meant  to  represent  Mdlle.  de  Fon- 
tanges. 

Eucharist  literally  means  a  thank- 
offering.  Our  Lord  said,  '■  Do  this  in 
remembrance  of  me" — I.e.  out  of  gra- 
titude to  me.  The  elements  of  bread 
and  wine  iu  the  Lord's  sujiper.  (Greek, 
e^i-charint'ia.') 

Eu'clio.  A  penurious  old  liunks  in 
one  of  the  comedies  of  Plautus  {Aidii- 
lu'rlii). 

Eucrates  (3  syl.).  More  .^^h 'if t.f  than 
liii'cratex.  Eucrate«,  the  miller,  was  one 
of  the  archons  of  Athens,  noted  for  his 
shifts  and  excuses  for  neglecthig  the 
duties  of  tlie  oilice. 

Eudoxians.  Heretics,  whose  founder 
was  Eudox'ius,  patriarch  of  Antioch  in 
the  fourth  century.  They  maintained 
that  the  Son  had  a  will  independent  of 
the  Father,  and  that  sometimes  their 
wills  were  at  variance. 

Euge'nius.  This  was  John  Hall 
Stejihenson,  author  of  Craz)/  Titles,  a 
relative  of  Sterne.  In  Sterne's  Tristram 
Sliaiidi/,  Eugenius  is  made  the  friend 
and  wise  counsellor  of  Yorick. 

Eugubine  Tables.  Seven  bronze 
tables  found  near  Eiigu'bium  {Githhio) 
in  Italy,  in  1441.  Of  the  inscriptions,  five 
are  Umbrian  and  Etruscan,  and  two  are 
Latin. 

"The  rinlirian,  the  ton'-'iie  of  nortli-eastern 
Italy,  is  yet  more  fully  represented  to  us  liy  the 
KuL'iihine  tablets  .  .  .  supposed  to  be  as  old  as  the 
third  and  fourth  centuries  before  our  era."— ir. 
I).  Whitney :  Study  of  Languages,  lecture  vi.  p.  T.O. 

Eu'lalie  (St.).  Eu'lalon  is  one  of  <he 
names  of  Apollo ;  but  in  the  calendar 
there  is  a  virgin  martj'r  called  Eu'lalie, 
born  at  Mer'ida,  in  Estramadu'ra.  When 
she  was  only  twelve  j-ears  old,  the  great 
persecution  of  Diocle'tiau  was  set  on 
foot,  whereupon  the  young  girl  left  her 
maternal  home,  and,  in  the  presence  of 
the  Roman  judge,  cast  down  the  idols 
he  had  set  up.  She  was  martyretl  by 
torture,  February  Tith,  308. 

Longfellow  calls  Evangeline  the  "  Sun- 
shine of  St.  Euiaiie." 

Eulen-spie'gel  (77////)  or  Ti/H  Oivl- 
f/lass.  The  hero  of  a  German  tale,  which 
relates  the  pranks  and  drolleries,  the 
ups  and  downs,  the  freaks  and  fun  of  a 
wandering  cottager  of  Brunswick.     The 


Eumaeog 


429 


EustatMans 


autlior  is  said  to  have  beeu  Dr.  Thomas 
Murncr  (1475-1530). 

Eumae'os  or  EumcrKs.  A  swineherd. 
So  called  from  the  slave  aud  swineherd 
of  Ulysses. 

"Til's  second  Eiiin-.vus  strode  liastily  ilowii  tlie 
forest,  i-'hule,  driviiif.'  hefore  liiiii  .  .  .  the  whole 
lierd  of  his  inlmriiiouioiis  charge." — Sir  Walter 
Scott. 

Eumen'ides  [f/ic  good-tempered  god- 
desses] .  A  uame  giveu  by  the  Greeks  to 
the  Furies,  as  it  would  have  been  omi- 
nous and  bad  policy  to  call  them  by  their 
right  uame,  Eyiii'iii/es. 

Eumnes'tes    \_Mcniorii'],   who,  being 

very    old,    keeps    a    little    boy    named 

Auamnestes    [^Itesearch]   to   fetch   books 

I     from    the    shelves.       {Spenser  :    Faerie 

Qiieene,  book  ii.  9.) 

Euno'mians.  Heretics,  the  disci- 
ples of  Euno'mius,  Bishop  of  Cyz'icum 
iu  the  fourth  century.  They  maintained 
that  the  Father  was  of  a  different  nature 
to  the  Sou,  and  that  the  Sou  did  not  iu 
reality  unite  Himself  to  luimau  nature. 

Eupat'ridse.  The  oligarchy  of  Attica. 
These  lords  of  creation  were  subse- 
quently set  aside,  and  a  democratic  form 
of  government  established. 

Eu'phemisms.  Words  or  phrases 
substituted,  to  soften  down  offensive 
expressions. 

I'/aec  never  viei/fioiied  to  ears  polite. 
In  the  reign  of  Charles  II.,  a  worthy 
divine  of  Whitehall  thus  concluded  his 
sermon:  "If  you  don't  live  up  to  the 
precepts  of  the  Gospel  .  .  .  you  must 
expect  to  receive  your  reward  iu  a  cer- 
tain place  which  'tis  not  good  manners 
to  mention  here  "  (Lcieoities).  Pope  tells 
us  this  worthy  diviue  was  a  dean  ; — 

'•  To  rest  the  ciisliion  and  soft  dean  invite, 

Who  never  nieutioned  hell  to  ears  polite." 
I  Moral  Essiiys,  epist.  iv.  4'J,  50. 

"His  Satanic  majesty;"  "light-fiu- 
gered  gentry;"  "a  geutleman  on  his 
travels"  {one  trniisported)  ;  "she  has 
met  with  an  accident "  {/las  had  a  ehild 
before  marriage) ;  "  help  "  or  "  employe  " 
{a  servanf);  "  not  quite  correct  "  (a  false- 
hood) \  "an  obliquity  of  vision"  (« 
squint);  "an  innocent"  {a  fool),  "bel- 
dam" {an  ugly  tvoman),  aud  hundreds 
of  others. 

Eure'ka,  or  rather  Heiire'lai  (I  have 
found  it  out).  The  exclamation  of 
Arclnmedes,  the  Syracusan  philosopher, 
when  he  discovered  how  to  test  the 
purity  of  Hi'ero's  crown.  The  tale  is, 
that  Hiero  delivered  a  certain  weight  of 
gold  to  a  workman,  to  be  made  into  a 


votive  crown,  but  suspecting  that  the 
workman  had  alloyed  the  gold  with  an 
inferior  metal,  asked  Archimedes  to  test 
the  crown.  The  philosopher  went  to 
bathe,  and,  iu  stepping  into  the  bath, 
which  was  quite  full,  observed  that  some 
of  the  water  ran  over.  It  innnediately 
struck  him  that  a  body  must  remove  its 
own  bulk  of  water  when  it  is  immersed, 
and  putting  his  idea  to  tlie  test,  found 
his  surmise  to  be  correct.  Now  then,  for 
the  crown.  Silver  is  lighter  than  gold, 
therefore  a  pound-weight  of  silver  will 
be  more  bulky  than  a  ijouud-weight  of 
gold,  and  being  of  greater  bulk  will 
remove  more  water.  Vitru'vius  says : 
' '  When  the  idea  flashed  across  his  mind, 
the  philosopher  jumped  out  of  the  bath 
exclaiming,  '  Heure'ka  !  heure'ka  ! '  aud, 
without  waiting  to  dress  hiniself,  ran 
home  to  try  the  experiment."  Drydeu 
has  mistaken  the  quantity  in  the  lines — 

"  The  deist  thinks  he  stands  on  tlrnier  pround, 
Cries  '  Eu'roka  : '  the  mighty  secret's  found." 
ileliylo  Laid,  4a,  J.'i. 

But  Byron  has  preserved  the  right  quan- 
tity— 

"  Now  we  clap 
Our  hands  and  cry  '  Kureka  ! '  " 

CliildcUaruId/ix.  St.. si. 

V  The  omission  of  the  initial  //  finds 
a  ])arallel  in  our  word  udometer  for 
"  hudometer,"  emerods  for  "  hemor- 
rhoids," erpetologg  iov  "  herpetology  "  ; 
on  the  other  hand,  we  write  humble-pio 
for  "umble-pie," 

Eu'rus  (2  syl.).  The  east  wind.  So 
called,  says  Buttmann,  from  eijs,  the 
east.  Probably  it  is  eos  eru'o,  drawn 
from  the  east.  Ovid  confirms  this  ety- 
mology:  "  Vires  eapit  Earns  ab  ortii." 
Breman  says  it  is  a  corruption  of  eiopos. 

"  While  southern  Rales  or  western  oceans  ndl. 
And  Euriis  steals  his  ice-winds  from  the  pole." 
Darwin  :  Economy  of  Vegetation,  canto  vi. 

Euryd'ice  (4  syl.) .  Wife  of  Orpheus, 
killed  by  a  serpent  on  her  wedding  night. 
Orpheus  went  down  to  the  infernal 
regions  to  seek  her,  and  was  promised 
she  should  return  on  condition  that  he 
looked  not  back  till  .she  had  reached  the 
ui^per  world.  When  the  poet  got  to  the 
confines  of  his  journey,  he  turned  his 
head  to  see  if  Eurydice  were  following, 
and  she  was  instantly  caught  back  again 
into  Hades. 

"  Restore,  restore  Eurydice  to  life  ; 
Oh,  take  the  luisliand  (U'  return  the  wife." 

Poiif :  Ode  oi>  St.  Cecilia:-:  Day. 

Eusta'thians.  A  denomination  so 
called  from  Eusta'thius,  a  monk  of  the 
fourth  centurj^  excommunicated  by  the 
council  of  Gangra. 


Eutychians 


430 


Every  Man 


Eutych'ians.  Heretics  of  the  fifth 
ceutuiy,  violently  opposed  to  the  Xes- 
toriiins.  They  maintained  that  Jesus 
Christ  was  entirely  God  previous  to  the 
incarnation,  and  entirely  man  during  His 
sojourn  on  earth.  The  founder  was 
Eu  tj-ches,  an  abbot  of  Constantinople, 
excommunicated  in  448. 

Euxine  Sea  {The) — i.e.  the  hospit- 
able sea.  It  was  formerly  called  A  riiic 
(inhospitable).  So  the  ''Cape  of  Good 
Hope  "  was  called  the  Cape  of  llcspair. 
"Beneventum"  was  originally  called 
jtfahrciitHiii,  and  "  Dyrrachium "  was 
called  IJ^ji(hniu/ns,  which  the  Eomans 
thought  was  too  much  like  daiininiii  to 
be  lucky. 

Evangelic  Doctor  {Tin).  John 
Wvclifj'e,  "  the  morning  star  of  the 
Reformation."     (1324-1384.) 

Evan'geline.  (4  syl.).  The  heroine 
of  Lougtellow"s  poem  so  called.  The 
subject  of  the  tale  is  the  expulsion  of 
the  inhabitants  of  Aca'dia  {yuvn  Scotia) 
from  their  homes  by  order  of  George  II. 

Evan'gelist,  in  Bunj-au's  ri/;/rim\s 
J'/w/)vv?.y,  represents  the  effectual  preacher 
of  the  Gospel,  who  opens  the  gate  of  life 
to  Christian.     (See  Wyoming.  ) 

Evangelists.  Sjnnbols  of  the 
four: — 

]\[iitthcir.  A  man  with  a  pen  in  his 
hand,  and  a  scroll  before  him,  looking 
over  his  left  shoulder  at  an  angel.  This 
Gospel  was  the  fir.st,  and  the  angel 
represents  the  Being  who  dictated  it. 

Matthew  a  man,  because  he  begins  his 
gospel  with  the  descent  of  Jesus  from 
the  man  David. 

Mark.  A  man  seated  writing,  and  by 
his  side  a  couchant  winged  lion.  Mark 
begins  liis  gospel  with  the  sojourn  of 
Jesus  in  the  wilderness,  amidst  wild 
beasts,  and  the  temptation  of  Satan, 
"  the  roaring  lion."     {Sir  Lion.) 

Lille.  A  man  with  a  pen,  looking  in 
deep  thought  over  a  scroll,  and  near  him 
a  cow  or  ox  chewing  the  cud.  The  latter 
part  refers  to  the  eclectic  character  of 
St.  Luke's  Gospel. 

John.  A  young  man  of  great  delicacy, 
with  an  eagle  in  the  background  to 
denote  sublimity. 

The  more  ancient  spnbols  were — for 
Matthew,  a  man's  face ;  for  Mark,  a 
lion  ;  for  Luke,  an  ox  ;  and  for  John,  a 
filing  eagle;  in  allusion  to  the  four 
living  creatures  before  the  throne  of 
God,  described  in  the  Book  of  Eevela- 
tion  :  "  The  first  ....  was  like  a  lion, 
and  the  second  ....  like  a  calf,  and 


the  third  ....  had  a  face  as  a  man, 
and  the  fourth  ....  was  like  a  flying 
eagle  "  (iv.  7).  Irenaj'us  saj-s  :  "  The 
lion  signifies  the  royalty  of  Christ ;  the 
calf  His  sacerdotal  office  ;  the  man's  face 
His  incarnation  ;  and  the  eagle  the  grace 
of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Evans  (.SV;-  Hugli).  A  pedantic  Welsh 
parson  and  schoolmaster  of  wondrous 
simplicitj' and  shrewdness.  {Shakespeare: 
Merrg  ll'ires  of  Jl'inihor.) 

Evans  {IViUiam).  The  giant  porter 
of  Charles  I.,  who  earned  about  in  his 
pocket  Sn-  Geoft'rey  Hudson,  the  king'.s 
dwarf.  He  was  nearly  eight  feet  high. 
(Died  1032.)  Fuller  s])caks  of  him  in 
his  ll'orthies,  and  Sii'  Walter  Scott  in- 
troduces him  in  I'ereril  of  (he  Peak. 

"  As  tnll  n  man  .is  is  in  Titindon,  nlways  rxcovt- 
ini;  tlie  kinL-'s  porter,  Master  Kvans,  tliat  carried 
yiiii  alioiit  ill  liis  r"'l<ef.Sir  Gedffic.v,  as  all  the 
world  lias  heard  tell."— C'liai>.  xxxiii. 

Evaporate  (4  syl.).  Be  off ;  vanish 
into  thin  aii'. 

"  Bdli  and  .lonatlian,  witli  similar  nicckiioss, 
tnnk  their  leave  and  evarorated."— Xiic/.c)/« ;  Our 
iidliKil  Fiiiinl,  part  i.e. 

Events.  At  all  eren/s.  In  any  case; 
be  the  issue  what  it  may  ;  "  iiteinnqiie 
eeeiderit.^'' 

In  the  event,  as  "In  the  event  of  his 
being  elected,"  means  in  ease,  or  j'rovided 
he  is  elected  ;  if  the  result  is  that  he  is 
elected. 

Ever  and  Anon.  From  time  to 
time.     {See  A^ION.) 

Ever-sworded  {The).  The  2f;th 
Regiment  of  Foot,  now  called  the 
"  Worcester.shire  Regiment."  In  1746 
a  part  of  this  regiment,  then  at  St. 
John's  Island,  was  surprised  by  the 
French  and  massacred,  when  a  command 
was  issued  that  henceforth  every  officer, 
even  at  meals,  should  wear  his  sword. 
In  1 842-1859  the  regiment  was  in  the  East 
Indies,  and  the  order  was  relaxed,  re- 
quiring onl}'  the  captain  and  subaltern 
of  the  day  to  dine  with  their  swords  on. 

Ever  -  Victorious  Army  {The). 
Ward's  army,  raised  in  18G1,  and  placed 
under  the  charge  of  General  Gordon. 
By  18(34  it  had  stamped  out  the  Taeping 
rebeUion,  which  broke  out  in  18ol.  {See 
Chinese  Gordon.) 

Everlasting  Staircase  {The).  The 
treadmill. 

Every  Man  Jack  of  Them.  Everj-- 
one.  The  older  form  of  everjonc  was 
ereriehon,  often  divided  into  ererg  ehone, 
con-upted  first    into    every-john,   then 


Evidence 


431 


Evolution 


into  eveiy  Jack,   theu    perverted   into 
every  mau  Jack  of  'em. 

"  I  sball  them  soon  vainiuii-h  every  clione." 
aiteplierd's  Kalendcr. 
"To   bare   liadde    tlieym  ....  slayne   everje 
clioiie." — Mure:  Oiitlie  Punnwn.  Weeks. 

Evidence  (/«)•  Before  the  eyes  of 
the  peojjle  ;  to  the  front  ;  actually 
present  (Latin).  Evidence,  meaning 
testimony  in  proof  of  something,  lias  a 
large  niunber  of  varieties,  as — 

Cimim»tiivti(il  Evidence.  That  based  oa  cor- 
rolKii-ntivc  iiiriili'iit-i. 

JJeiii'itmli-dlirr  iridrtirr.  That  which  can  l^e 
IHMVimI  witli^'iu  li:i\  iiiv' a  (hiulit. 

Dirt  il  null  ,11  r.    Thai  nf  all  cyo-witnoss. 

Ej.-tirntil  ictdtnce.  That  tlerivod  frciiu  history 
or  tradition. 

ftitennil  evidence.  Tliat  derived  from  cun- 
fiirniity  with  wliat  is  known. 

Midciidl  erldeiice.  That  wliieh  is  essential  in 
ordci-  to  cari-y  jiroof. 

.Mi<i<it  crideiice.  That  which  accords  with  gen- 
(lul  experience. 

J'resumptive  ei-idence.  Tliat  which  is  hiyhly 
probable. 

Prima  facie  evidenre.  That  which  seems  likely, 
nnless  it  can  be  explained  away. 

Queen's  or  King's  evidence.  That  of  an  accessory 
against  his  accomplices,  under  the  promise  of 
pardon. 

Seciindanj  ci-idencc.  Such  as  is  produced  when 
primary  evidence  is  not  to  be  obtained. 

Self  evidence.  That  derived  from  the  senses  ; 
manifest  and  indubitable. 

Evil  Communications,  etc.  He 
■who  touches  pitch  mu<t  expect  to  be 
defiled.  A  rotten  apj^le  will  injure  its 
companions.  One  scabby  sheep  will 
infect  a  whole  flock. 

French  :  II  ne  faut  qu'une  brebis 
galeuse  pour  gater  tout  un  troupeati. 

Latin  :  Mala  vicini  pecoris  contagia 
laedent  {J'tn/il).  Tunc  tua  res  agitur, 
paries  cum  i^roximus  ardet.  Mala  con- 
sortio  boiios  mores  inquinat.  Malorum 
commercio  reddimnr  deteriores.  Hie 
niger  est,  hunc  tu,  Eomane,  caveto 
{Horace).  Uva  consj)ecta  livorem  ducit 
ab  uva. 

To  the  s,ame  efEect  is  the  locution,  "  C'est  une 
brebis  galeuse,"  and  the  idea  implied  is,  he  must 
be  sepai-ated  from  the  Hock,  or  else  he  will  con- 
taminate others. 

Evil  Eye.    It  was  anciently  believed 

that  the   eyes  of  some  persons  darted 

noxious  rays  on  objects  which  they  glared 

uj)on.     The  first  morning  glance  of  such 

eyes  was  certain  destruction  to  man  ov 

beast,  but  the  destruction  was  not  un- 

frequeutly    the    result    of     emaciation. 

Virgil   speaks   of    an    evil   eye   making 

cattle  lean.     {Sec  Mascotte,  Jettatoe.) 

"Nes'cio   quis    ten'eros   oc'ulus    mihi   fas'cinat 
agnos."  Eel.  iii.  Iu3. 

Evil  May  Day  (1517).  So  called 
because  of  the  riots  made  on  that  day 
hy  the  London  apjirentices,  who  fell  on 
the  French  residents.  The  ringleaders, 
with  fifteen  others,  were  hanged ;  and 


four  hundred  more  of  the  rioters  were 
carried  to  Westminster  with  halters 
round  their  necks,  but  were  pardoned 
by  "Blutf  Harry  the  King."  The 
Constable  of  the  Tower  discharged  his 
cannon  on  the  mob  assembled  in  tmnult 
ui  Cheapside  Way. 

Evil    Principle.       {See    Aiieihax, 

AEIifANES,  ASALOE.) 

Evils.  "  Of  two  evils,  I  have  chosen 
the  least"  {Trior). 

Evolution  {Darniniaii).  Darwin's 
theory  is  tliat  ditferent  forms  of  animal 
and  vegetable  life  are  due  to  small  vari- 
ations, and  that  natural  selection  is  a  main 
agent  in  bringing  them  about.  If  favoiu'- 
able,  these  variations  are  perpetuated,  if 
not  they  die  off. 

Silencer's  theorj'  is  that  the  present 
multitude  of  objects  have  all  sprung  from 
sejiarate  atoms  oiiginally  homogeneous. 
'•Evolution  Is  the  integration  of  matter  and 
concomitant  dissipation  of  motion,  during  which 
the  matter  passes  from  an  indcllnile,  incidierenl 
liomiigeneity  to  a  dell  111  tecolicreiit  heterogeneity  ; 
and  (luiiiig  wliirh  tlje  letained  motion  undergoes 
a  pMiallcl  riniistiiiiiiatiiiii.'— ,S//cjicer;  First  Vrin- 
eii'l' ?,  part  ii.  diap.  xvii.  p.  3%. 

Evolution,  its.  process,  according  to 
biologists. 

Part  i. 

Assuming  the  existence  of  some  cleineiir.  call 
itprotyle(::syl.),in  time  weget7n((/(rt-,aiid  nmtiou. 

From  matter  and  motion  proceed  cuhe.iion  and 
repulsion,  and  from  cohesion  and  repulsion  we 

get  crystals. 

Next  Cfinies  chemical  action  into  play,  from 
which  springs  prininrdial  prut.tjilusiii,  or  the 
jirofop/d.-iii/c  cliit  of  purely  clieiiiiinl  oriLfin. 

By  funlier  development  tlie  liilnnipliiill  cell  is 
fi/iined,  with  its  power  to  assimilate,  and  this 
will  acciium  for  air,  water,  and  miiieniis. 

By  laiasliism  next  conies  the  proto-bacillus  or 
fuii','iis,  li\  ing  on  the  green  cells. 

And  then  will  follow  the  prutuzoim,  the  first 
example  of  animal  life. 

Part  ii. 

(1)  The  Amoeba  is  the  lowest  of  known  animals, 
a  mollusc,  Willi  the  S(de  power  of  locomotion. 

(-■)  The  Sy-ii-amcelia  is  multicellular,  with  an 
organism  adapted  for  seii.sation.  digestion,  and 
the  power  of  reproduction. 

(.'!)  Then  will  come  the  Gnstrnla,  an  organised 
being,  with  an  external  mouth. 

(4)  Next  the  Hydra  r.r  J'uli/p,  which  has  local- 
ised sense-organs  and  instincts. 

(a)  Then  the  Medusa,  with  nerves,  muscles,  and 
nerve  functions. 

(fi)  Ne.\i  come  worms,  which  have  special  sense- 
organs  ;  and 

(7)  Then  the  J7nHnf?!7rt,or.Saf7..-iforjii,  which  has 
a  rudimentary  spinal  cord. 

Part  iii.     From  the  SacJc-worin  to  Man. 

(1)  The  larv.c  of  .Ascidians. 

(:;)  Lowly-organised  flsli,  like  the  Lancclet. 

(.1)  The  Lepidosiren,  and  other  Bsh. 

(4)  The  Ampkihiavs. 
(.i)  Jlirds  and  lieptiles. 

(fi)  Monoiremata,  which  connect  reptiles  with 
ni:immal3. 
(7)  Marsupials. 

(5)  Placental  ^[ammals. 

(9)  The  Lemurid(e. 

(10)  The  Simiadce. 

ao  The  Monkey  tribe,  coiisistins  of  the  New 


Ewe -lamb 


432 


Excelsior 


World  monkey  (called  Pluti/rhines),  aud  the  Old 
World  iiionkeys  (called  Catarluneii,  S  syl.)- 

(l:;)  The  Jlissing  Link  between  the  catarhine 
monkey  and  man.  Tlie  Mali  is  tlioULrht  liv  some 
to  supi'ly  this  link.  It  is  one  of  the  nionki-y  trilic 
which  aiJin-oaches  nearer  to  the  human  species 
tlian  any  other  yet  discovered. 

V  Thi.s  is  no  jilace  to  ciiticise  the 
theory  of  evohition,  but  merely  to  state 
it  as  briefly  and  plainly  as  possible. 

Ewe-lamb  (^L).  A  single  jjossession 
greatly  prized.     (2  Sam.  xii.  1-14.) 

Ex  Cathe'dra  (Latin).  With  au- 
thority. The  Pope,  speaking  r.r  cathedra, 
is  said  to  sjieak  with  an  infallible  voice 
— to  speak  as  the  successor  and  rejire- 
seutative  of  St.  Peter,  aud  in  his  ponti- 
fical character.  Tlie  words  are  Latin, 
and  mean  "from  the  chair" — i.e.  the 
throne  of  tlie  i^ontiff.  The  i>hrase  is 
aj)plied  to  all  dicta  uttered  Ijy  tiuthority, 
and  ironically  to  self-suflicient,  dog- 
matical assertions. 

Ex  Hypoth'esi,  according  to  wliat  is 
sujjposed  or  assumed. 

"  The  justification  of  the  charge  [i.e.  tlio  tax  for 
hetternient]  lies  i:r  injriotUesl  inan  enhanced  value 
of  the  iM-ui'erly  in  the  Betterment  area."— /'/(c 
I'rciii  rtii  Priiti cticii  obiectiim  iigainat  Hi'fthm  Til  iif 
thv  luiti  rill,  lit  i-linisc  iifthe  Tuwer  Bridge  Southern 
Al>pn;u:l,  IJUnis'.H). 

Ex  Luce  Lucellum.  To  make  a 
gain  out  of  light ;  to  make  a  cheese- 
paring from  lucifer-matches.  When 
Kobert  Lowe  jHoposed  to  tax  lucifer- 
matches,  lie  suggested  that  the  boxes 
should  be  labelled  £.r  Iiiee  iHceUiiin.  {I'ar- 
Hamcntanj  llejjorts,  1871.) 

"  Lucifer  agsrediens  e.x  luce  haurn-e  lucellum 
Incldit  in  tenebras  ;  lex  nova  funius  eiat." 

Ex  Officio  (Latin,  hij  rlrtiic  of  /lia 
oj/ict).  As,  the  Lord  Mayor  for  the  time 
being  shall  be  e.r  officio  one  of  the  trus- 
tees. 

Ex  Parte  (Latin,  procccdii/r/  onhjfrom 
one  of  the  partien).  Au  ex-parte  state- 
ment is  a  one-sided  statement,  a  partial 
statement,  a  statement  made  by  one  of 
the  litigants  without  being  modified  by 
the  counter- statement. 

Ex  Ped'e  Her'culem.  From  this 
sample  you  can  judge  of  the  whole. 
Plutarch  says  thtit  Pythag'oras  ingeni- 
ously calculated  the  height  of  Hercules 
by  comparing  the  length  of  various 
stadia  in  Greece.  A  stadium  was  600 
feet  in  length,  but  Hercules'  stadium  at 
Olympia  was  much  longer.  Now,  says 
the  philosopher,  as  the  stadium  of  Olym- 
pia is  longer  than  an  ordinary  stadium, 
so  the  foot  of  Hercules  was  longer  than 
an  ordinary  foot ;  aud  as  the  foot  bears 
a    certain   ratio    to    the    height,  so  the 


height  of  Hercules  can  be  easily  ascer- 
tained.    {Varia  iSeripia.) 

Ex  Post  Facto  (Latin).  An  e.r post 
far  til  law.  A  law  made  to  meet  aud 
l^uiii.sh  a  crime  after  the  offence  has  been 

committed. 

Ex  Professo  (Latin).  Avowedly ; 
expressly. 

"  I  have  never  written  er  professo  on  the  sub- 
ject."—Gtai/sdiHe:  Xint'tecntit  Century,  Vov.,  l.iKi. 

Ex  Uno  Omnes  means  from  tlie  one 
instance  deduced  you  may  infer  the 
nature  of  the  rest.  A  general  infer- 
ence from  a  particular  example.  If 
one  oak-tree  bears  acorns,  all  other  oak- 
trees  will  grow  similar  fruit. 

Exaltation.  In  old  astrology,  a 
planet  was  said  to  be  in  its  "  exaltation  " 
when  it  was  in  that  sign  of  the  zodiac 
in  which  it  was  supi^osed  to  exercise  its 
strongest  influence.  Thus  the  exaltation 
of  Venus  is  in  Pisces,  and  her  "  dejec- 
tion "  in  Virgo. 
"  Anil  thus,  God  wot,  Iferc'ry'  is  des(date' 
In  risces,  wher  Venus'  is  exaltate'." 

Vluutcer:  Canterbury  Tales,  <i;i»'^. 

In  chemistry,  the  refining  or  subtilising 
of  bodies,  or  of  their  qualities,  virtues, 
or  strength. 

Exaltation  of  the  Cross.  A  feast 
held  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  on 
Seiitember  Ittli,  to  commemorate  the 
restoration  of  the  cross  to  Calvary  in 
628.  It  had  been  carried  away  by 
Khosroes  tiie  Per.sian. 

Examination.  Exam  en  is  Latin  for 
the  needle  indicator  of  a  balance.  To 
examine  is  to  watch  the  indicator,  so  as 
to  adjust  the  bahince. 

Examiners  {I'tihlic).  .The  examiners 
at  the  universities,  and  at  the  examina- 
tions for  the  military,  naval,  and  civil 
services,  etc. 

Excal'ibur  {Ex  cat  [«■]  llticr  [atiis]). 
Liberated  from  tlie  stone.  The  sword 
which  Arthur  drew  out  of  the  stone, 
whereby  he  proved  himself  to  be  the 
king.     {See  Swoed.) 

"  Ko  sw(U'd  on  earth,  were  it  the  Excaliliur  of 
Kin!,'  Arthur,  can  cut  that  which  opjioses  no 
steady  resist.-ince  to  the  blow."— .Sir  ir«/(er  .SVeif. 

Ex'cellency  {Hh).  A  title  given  to 
colonial  and  provincial  governors,  am- 
bassadors, and  the  Lord-Lieutenant  of 
Ireland.     (Compare  Luke  i.  3.) 

Excel'sior.  Aim  at  higher  tilings 
still.  It  is  the  motto  of  the  Linited 
States,  and  has  been  made  jiopular  by 
Longfellow's  poem  so  named.  Used  also 
as  the  synonym  of  super-excellent. 


Exception 


433 


Exeter 


Exception.  To  take  exception.  To 
feel  offended  ;  to  fiud  fault  witli. 

"  Her  iiianner  was  so  .  .  .  respectful,  tliat  I 
cmild  not  take  exception  to  this  reproof."— 
Farjfon. 

Kxcep'tions  prove  the  Rule.  They 
prove  tliere  is  a  rule,  or  there  could  be 
no  excejitioDs ;  the  very  fact  of  excep- 
tions proves  there  must  be  a  rule. 

"  Exceptio  probat  rc^'ulaiii."— C'u/«m('Ho. 

Excheq'uer.  Cimrt  of  Exeheqiier.  In 
the  subdivision  of  the  court  in  the  reigu 
of  Edward  I.,  the  Exchequer  acquired  a 
separate  and  independent  position.  Its 
special  duty  was  to  order  the  revenues 
of  the  Crown  and  recover  the  king's 
debts.  It  was  denominated  Scacca'y'unn, 
from  scaccHiH  (a chess-board),  and  was 
so  called  because  a  chequered  cloth  was 
laid  ou  the  table  of  the  court.  {Madox : 
H'lstorji  of  the  Exvlicqiicy.) 

'.'  Foss,  in  his  Lircs  of  the  Judges, 
gives  a  slightly  different  explanation. 
He  says:  "All  round  the  table  was 
a  standing  ledge  four  fingers  broad, 
covered  with  a  cloth  bought  in  the 
Easter  Term,  and  this  cloth  was  '  black 
rowed  with  strekes  about  a  span,  like  a 
chess-board.  On  the  spaces  of  this  cloth 
counters  were  arranged,  marked  for 
chocking  computations.'  " 

Exci'se  (2  syl.)  means  literally,  a 
coupon,  or  piece  cut  off  (Latin,  cxcl'do). 
It  is  a  toll  or  duty  levied  on  articles  of 
home  consumption — a  slice  cut  off  from 
these  things  for  the  national  purse. 

"Taxes  on  commodities  are  citlier  on  jirorlnc- 
tion  witliin  the  country,  or  on  importation  into  it, 
or  on  conveyance  or  sale  within  it  ;  andare  classed 
respectively  as  excise,  customs,  or  tolls."— iUiii  ; 
rulitical  Ecuiwmy,  book  v.  chap.  iii.  p.  562. 

Exclu'sion.  7?///  of  Exclusion.  A 
bill  to  exclude  the  Duke  of  York  from 
the  throne,  on  account  of  his  being  a 
Papist.  Passed  by  the  Commons,  but 
rejected  by  the  Lords,  in  1G79  ;  revived 
in  1681. 

'  Excommunica'tion.    (\)The  greater 

is  exclusion  of  an  individual  from  the 
seven  sacraments,  from  every  legiti- 
mate act,  and  from  all  intercourse  with 
the  faithful.  ('2)  The  lesser  excommu- 
nication is  sequestration  from  the  ser- 
vices of  the  Church  only.  The  first 
Napoleon  was  excommunicated  by  Pope 
Pius  VII. ;  and  the  kings  of  Italy  were 
placed  under  an  anathema  by  Pius  IX. 
for  adding  the  Papal  dominions  to  the 
United  Kingdom  of  Italy. 

"  The  person  excommunicated:  Oi-,  nrarr,  i-nic, 
commtiiiiii.  )»(  HN.;,  iiei/(ttnr  (The  I'Crson  excom- 
municated is  to  i,e  b.iycotted  by  the  faithful  in 
06  (convers.itii.n  i.  .cor  (pra.\er),  commiinio  (com- 
munion), HI.  ii.--''  ( I'^'uvWr- Professor  T.  P.  Gary  : 
Eomish  Monil  Tli,,,!,,,,;/  (.3rd  ed.,  186.'). 

28 


Excommunication  by  Bell,  Book,  and 
Candle.     (&eCuKSiN(j,  etc.) 

Exeomw/inicatioH  by  the  ancient  Jews. 
This  was  of  three  sorts— (1)  Nid'iii 
(separation),  called  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment "casting  out  of  the  synagogue" 
(John  ix.  22)  ;  (2)  Cherem,  called  by  St. 
Paul  "delivering  over  to  Satan"  (1  Cor. 
V.  5)  ;  (3)  Anathema  Marana'tha  (1  Cor. 
xvi.  22),  delivered  over  to  the  Lord,  icho 
is  at  hand,  to  take  vengeance.  TheSad- 
ducees  had  an  interdict  called  Tetra- 
gram'metoii,  which  was  cm-sing  the  of- 
fender by  jeho'vah,  by  the  Decalogue, 
by  the  inferior  courts,  and  with  all  the 
curses  of  the  sujierior  courts. 

Excru'ciate  (4  syl.).  To  give  one 
as  much  pain  as  crucifying  him  woidd 
do.  (Latin,  ex  crux,  where  ex  is  iu- 
tensitive.) 

Excuse.  "  Qui  s'excuse,  s'aceuse,^' 
or  "  2el  s'excuse  qui  s'aeeu.\e.'' 

Ex'eat  (Latin,  he  mag  go  out).  Per- 
mission granted  by  a  bishoi>  to  a  priest 
to  leave  his  diocese.  In  the  universities, 
it  is  permission  to  a  student  to  leave 
college  before  end  of  term.  Sometimes 
Ijermission  is  granted  to  leave  college 
after  the  gates  are  closed. 

Ex'ecrate  (3  syl.).  To  many  Eomau 
laws  this  tag  was  appended,  "If  any 
one  breaks  this  law,  saeer  esto,''^  i.e.  let 
his  body,  his  family,  and  his  goods  be 
consecrated  to  the  gods.  When  a  man 
was  declared  sacer,  auj'one  might  kill 
him  with  impunity.  Anyone  who  hurt 
a,  tribune  was  held  a  sacer  to  the  goddess 
Ceres.     Ex  in  this  word  is  intensitive. 

"If  anyone  hurt  a  tribune  in  word  or  deed,  ho 
was  held  accursed  fsncf  r],  and  his  Koods  were  con- 
fiscated."—iu'i/,  iii.  55  ;  see  also  Dioriysius,  vi.SJ, 
and  viii.  17. 

Exequatur.  An  official  recognition 
of  a  person  in  the  character  of  consul  or 
commercial  agent,  authorising  hini  to 
exercise  his  power.  The  word  is  Latin, 
and  means,  ' '  he  may  exercise  ' '  [the 
function  to  which  he  lias  been  ap- 
IDointed] . 

"The  Northern  ratriotic  Leasue  (Oporto)  h:,^ 
decided  to  jietition  the  (Tovernment  to  withdraw 
the  Exeiiuattir  from  the  British  Consul  here." — 
Eeuter's  Tclcyrina,  Tuesday,  Fel).  Uth,  ISOO. 

Exercises.  Week-day  sermons  were 
so  called  by  the  Puritans.  Hence  the 
title  of  Morning  Exercises,  vpeek-day  ser- 
mons preached  in  the  morning. 

Ex'eter.  The  Euke  of  Exeter'' s  daugh- 
ter was  a  sort  of  rack  invented  by  the 


Exeter  Controversy         434 


Expose 


Duke  of   Exeter    during  the  reign  of 
Henry  VI.     (  Blackstone.) 

"  I  was  the  lad  that  wnuld  nut  confess  one  word 
....  tbouj-'b  they  threatened  to  make  me  Uii!,' 
the  Duke  of  E.\eter's  daughter."— ,S'cwH  ;  Furluncs 
0/ yiijcl,  .\xv. 

Ex'eter  Controversy.  A  contro- 
versy raised  upon  a  tract  entitled  I'ldhi 
Truth,  by  the  Rev.  John  Agate,  of 
Exeter,  an  Episcopalian  ;  rejjlied  to  by 
several  dissenting  ministers,  as  Withers, 
Trosse,  Pierce,  etc.     (1707- 171o.) 

Ex'eter  Domesday.  A  record  con- 
taining a  description  of  Wilts,  Dorset, 
Somerset,  Devon,  and  Cornwall ;  pub- 
lished by  Sir  Henry  Ellis  (iu  1816)  as  a 
Supplement  to  the  Great  Doraesday- 
Book  {q.v.).  Called  "  Exon,"  either 
because  it  was  at  one  time  kejjt  among 
the  muniments  of  the  Dean  and  Chapter 
of  Exeter,  or  because  the  Bishop  of 
Exeter  was  commissioned  to  make  the 
survey. 

Exhibition.  Mij  son  fia.':  r/ot  an  r.r- 
hibitioii  at  Oxford.  An  allowance  of 
meat  and  drink ;  a  benefaction  for  main- 
tenance. (Latin,  cxhihitio,  an  allow- 
ance of  food  and  other  necessaries, 
"  aUiiwiiiis  cxhiberc  aliqiicm.'''') 

"Tliey  have  founded  six  exhiliitions  of  fl.i 
each  iier  annum,  to  continue  for  two  years  and  a 
half ."— ru.H/cir .-  Ilistonj  of  the  Universily  of  1)  ablin, 
chap.  V.  p.  1118. 

"  I  crave  fit  disposition  for  my  wife, 
Due  reference  of  place,  and  exhibition." 

/iltiUccspeare :  Othello,  i.  ". 

Exhibition  (The  Great)  was  held  iu 
Hyde  Park,  London,  and  lasted  from 
May  1  to  October  15,  1851. 

Exies  or  Axes.  '  Hysterics ;  ague 
fits  ;  any  paroxj-sm. 

"  Jenny  Kitherout  has  taeii  the  exies,  and  done 
naethins  hut  laugh  and  greet  .  .  .  for  twa  days 
successively."— i'i'r  W.  Scott :  The  Aiitiquanj,  chap. 

XXXV. 

Exile.  The  XeapoUtan  Exile.  Baron 
Poe'rio.  One  of  the  kings  of  Naples 
promised  the  people  a  constitution,  but 
broke  his  word  ;  whereupon  a  revolu- 
tion broke  out,  and  the  baron,  with 
many  others,  was  imprisoned  for  many 
years  in  a  dreadful  dungeon  near  Naples. 
He  was  at  length  liberated  and  exiled  to 
America,  but  compelled  the  captain  to 
steer  for  Ireland,  and  landed  at  Cork, 
where  he  was  well  received. 

Exit  (Latin,  he  goes  out).  A  theatri- 
cal term  placed  at  the  point  when  an 
actor  is  to  leave  the  stage.  We  also  say 
of  an  actor,  Exit  So-and-so — that  is.  So- 
and-so  leaves  the  stage  at  this  point  of 
the  drama. 


He  made  his  cvit.  He  left,  or  died: 
as,  "He  made  his  exit  of  this  life  in 
peace  with  all  the  world."  Except  iu 
the  drama,  we  say,  "made  or  makes  his 
exit."     {See  above.) 

".  All  the  world's  a  stage, 
And  all  the  men  and  women  merely  players  ; 
They  have  their  exits  and  their  entrances." 
iShalcuspcure :  As  You  Like  It,  ii.  7. 

Ex'odus.  The  Exodus  of  Israel.  The 
departure  of  the  Israelites  from  Egypt 
under  the  guidance  of  Moses.  We  now 
speak  of  the  Exodus  of  Ireland— i.e.  the 
departure  of  the  Iri.sh  in  large  numbers 
for  America ;  the  Exodus  of  the  Aea'- 
dians — i.e.  the  expulsion  of"  these  colo- 
nists from  Nova  Scotia  iu  the  reign  of 
George  II.  ;  etc.  (Greek,  ex  cdos,  a 
journej'  out.) 

Ex' on,  Exon  of  the  Gnards.  Any  one 
of  the  three  certain  officers  of  the  day 
in  command  of  the  yeomen  of  the  royal 
guard  ;  the  acting  officer  who  resides  at 
the  court ;  an  exempt.  Capitaines  e.r- 
i/npts  des  ffardes  dn  corps.  (French, 
cxoine,  ex  soin,  exempt  from  duty  or 
care.) 

Exor'bitant  means  literally  out  of 
the  rut  (Liitin,  ex  or'bita,  out  of  the 
wheel-rut)  ;  out  of  the  track;  extrava- 
gant {extra-ragant). 

Exoteric.     {See  Esoteeic.) 

Expectation  Week.  Between  the 
Ascension  and  Whit  Sunday,  when  the 
apostles  continued  praj'ing"in  earnest 
expectation  of  the  Comforter." 

Experimental  Philosophy.  Science 
founded  on  exjierimeuts  or  data,  in 
contradistinction  to  moral  and  mathe- 
matical sciences.  Experimental  pliilo- 
sophj''  is  also  called  natural  p}nlosuphij, 
and  by  the  French  phi/sies. 

Experimen  turn  Cru'cis  (Latin) .  A 
decisive  experiment.     {See  Ceucial.) 

Expcrto  Crede.  Believe  one  who 
has  had  exjierience  iu  the  matter. 

Explo'sion  means  literallj',  driven 
out  by  clapping  the  hands  (latin,  e.v- 
plo'do — i.e.  ex-plaudo) ;  hence  the  noise 
made  by  clapping  the  hands,  a  rejjort 
made  by  iguited  gunpowder,  etc. 

Exponent.  One  who  exj^lains  or 
sets  forth  the  views  of  another.  Thus, 
a  clergyman  should  be  the  exponent 
of  the  Bible  and  Thirty-nine  Ai'ticles. 
(Latin,  ex  pono,  to  exjiose  or  set  forth.) 

Expose  (French).  An  exposing  of 
something  Avhich  should  have  been  kept 
out  of  sight.     Thus  we  sav  a  man  made 


Express  Train 


43S 


Eye -sore 


a  dreadful  expose — i.e.  told  or  did  some- 
thing which  should  have  been  kept  con- 
cealed. 

Express  Train.  A  fast  train  between 
two  large  towns,  with  few  or  no  stoji- 
pages  at  iutcnnediate  stations. 

Expressed  Oils  are  those  which 
are  obtained  by  pressiu-e.  Unlike  animal 
and  essential  oils,  they  are  pressed  out 
of  the  bodies  which  contain  them. 

Expression.  A  f/cographical  exprcs- 
sidii.  A  tenn  applied  to  a  tract  of 
country  with  no  recognised  nationality. 

"Tbis  teiTitory  is  to  a  very  great  extent  dc- 
ciipied  by  one  race  .  .  .  and  yet  to  the  present 
day  (Tcrmany  is  little  more  than  a  geographical 
expression."— Z)«(7y  Telegraph  tbeforc  1»71). 

Ex'quisite  (3  syl.).  One  sought  out; 
a  coxcomb,  a  dandy,  one  who  thinks 
himself  sui^erlatively  well  dressed,  and 
of  most  unexceptionable  deportment. 

■' ExMuisitcs  art"  mit  of  place  in  the  pulpit; 
they  shonUI  be  s;'t  np  in  a  tailor's  window."— 
Spurijiuii :  Lectures  tu  my  Students.  (Lecture  viii.) 

Exten'sive  (.3  syl.).  Rather  exten- 
sive, that,  itather  fast.  A  slang  syno- 
nym for  a  swell. 

Exter.  ThaCs  Exter,  as  the  old  ivoman 
said  H'lien  she  saw  Kerton.  This  is  a 
Devonshire  saying,  meaning,  I  thought 
my  work  was  done,  but  I  find  much  still 
remains  before  it  is  completed.  "Exter" 
is  the  poj)ular  pronunciation  of  Exeter, 
and  "Kerton"  is  Crediton.  The  tradi- 
tion is  that  the  woman  in  question  was 
going  for  the  first  time  to  Exeter,  and 
seeiug  the  grand  old  church  of  Kerton 
(Crediton),  sujiposed  it  to  be  Exeter  Ca- 
thedral. "That's  Exter,"  she  said, 
"and  my  journey  is  over;"  but  alas! 
she  had  still  eight  miles  to  walk  before 
she  reached  her  destination. 

Extinct  Species  [since  the  time  of 
man].  The  dodo,  great  auk,  quagga, 
sea-cow,  and  white  rhinoceros. 

Getting  very  rare :  the  bison,  the 
Carolina  paraket,  the  giraffe,  and  tlie 
passenger  j)!geon  once  common  enough. 

Extravagantes  Constitutio'nes,  or 

Extrai'ae/aitts.  The  papal  constitutions 
of  John  XXII.,  antl  some  few  of  his 
successors,  supplemental  to  the  ' '  Corpus 
Juris  Canou'ici."  So  called  because  they 
were  not  ranged  in  order  with  the  other 
papal  constitutions,  but  were  left  "  out- 
wanderers  "  from  the  geueral  code. 

Extreme  Unction.  One  of  the  seven 
sacraments  of  tlie  Catholic  Church, 
founded  on  St.  James  v.  14,  "Is  any 
sick  among  youi'  let  him  call  for  the 


elders  of  the  Church  ;  and  let  them  pray 
over  him.  anointing  him  with  oil  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord." 

Extremes  Meet.    In  French  :  ' '  Lcs 

extremes  se  toachciit.''' 

Eictricate.     Latin,   ex,   out  of,  and 

tricee,  fetters.  "TricEe"  are  the  haii-s, 
etc.,  tied  round  the  feet  of  birds  to 
prevent  their  wandering.  To  extricate 
is  to  "  get  out  of  these  tricce  or  meshes." 

Exult'  (Latin).  To  leap  out.  Thus 
we  say,  "I  am  ready  to  leap  out  of  my 
skin  ;  "  to  jump  for  joy. 

Eye.  Latin,  oe'«/«s;  Italian,  occhio  ; 
Spanish,  ojo :  Eussian,  oico ;  Dutch,  oof/ ; 
Saxon,  ed(je  (where  y  is  pronoimced  like 
y) ;  French,  ceil. 

In  mil  mnurs  eye.  In  my  perceptive 
thought.  The  eye  sees  in  two  ways: 
(1)  from  without;  and  (2)  from  within. 
When  we  look  at  anything  without,  the 
object  is  reflected  on  the  retina  as  on  a 
mirror ;  but  in  deej)  contemplation  tlie 
inward  thought  "informs  the  eye."  It 
was  thus  Macbeth  saw  the  dagger ;  and 
Hamlet  tells  Horatio  that  he  saw  his 
deceased  father  "  in  liis  mind's  eye." 

In  the  wiiuVs  eye.  Directly  opposed 
to  the  wind. 

In  the  twin/cliny  of  an  eye.  Immedi- 
ately, very  soon.  ^'Au  moindre  elin 
d'ail.'^  Similar  phrases  are:  "In  a 
brace  of  shakes,"  "  In  the  twinkling  of 
a  bed-i)ost."     (<S'w  Bed-post.) 

My  eye  I  or  Oh,  my  eye  '.  an  exclama- 
tion of  astonishment.  [See  All  my  Eye.) 

On-  mi(jht  see  that  with  half  an  eye. 
Easily  ;  at  a  mere  glance. 

2'he  kiinfs  eyes.      His  chief  officers. 
An  Eastern  expression. 
"  One  of  the  seven 
Who  in  God"s  presence,  nearest  to  the  throne 
Stand  ready  at  command,  and  are  his  eyes 
That  run  thro"  all  the  heavens,  or  down  to  earth 
Bear  his  swift  errands." 

Milton :  Paradise  Lost,  iii.  6.5-'. 

To  have  an  eye  on.  To  keep  strict 
watch  on  the  person  or  thing  referred  to. 

To  have  an  eye  to  the  main  chance.  To 
keep  constantly  in  view  the  profit  to 
arise  ;  to  act  from  motives  of  policj-. 
{See  Main  Chance.) 

To  see  eye  to  eye.  To  be  of  precisely 
the  same  opinion  ;  to  think  both  alike. 

Eye  -  service.  Superficial  service. 
^•Service  qu'on  rend  sous  les  yeux  dn 
maitre." 

"Servants,  be  obedient  to  them  that  are  your 
masters  .  .  .  .  ;  not  with  eye-service,  as  men 
pleasers  ;  but  as  tlie  servants  of  Christ."— Eph. 
vi.  5,  6. 

Eye-sore.  Something  that  is  offen- 
sive to  the  sight.  Sore  is  the  Anglo-Saxon 


Eye-teeth 


436 


ff 


mr  (painful)  oi"  siC(cr  (grievous).     It  is 

jjaiiif  ul  or  grievous  to  the  eye. 

"  Jlordeciii  was  an  eye-sore  to  Hainan."— iJ'A'.s- 
traiiijc. 

Eye-teeth.  The  cauine  teeth  are  so 
called  because  their  fangs  extend  up- 
wards nearly  to  the  orbits  of  the  eyes. 

To  draw  c/«('s  eye- teeth.  To  take  the 
conceit  out  of  a  person  ;  to  fleece  one 
without  mercy ;  to  make  one  suffer  loss 
without  seeing  the  manoeuvre  by  which 
it  was  effected. 

"  I  guess  these  Yanks  will  get  tlicir  eye-teeth 
drawn  if  they  don't  look  sharii."— IK.  Bepicorth 
Dixon:  New  America,  vol.  i. 

Eye  of  a  Needle.  Lady  Duff  Gor- 
don, writing  from  Cairo,  says:  "Yes- 
terday I  saw  a  camel  go  through  the 
eye  of  a  needle — i.e.  a  low  arched  door 
of  an  enclosure.  He  must  kneel  and 
bow  his  head  to  go  through,  and  thus 
the  rich  man  must  humble  himself" 
{Wood:  Bible  Animals,  p.  243).  Lord 
Nugent,  in  his  I'ravels,  informs  us  that 
when  at  Hebron  he  was  directed  to  go 
out  by  the  Needle's  Eye,  or  small  gate 
of  the  city. 

Eye  of  Greece  {The).    Athens. 

"  Athens,  the  eye  of  (ircei'o,  niutlicr  of  arts." 
.Hilton:  Pa  nulls,  Iliu'diud,  Ijook  iv.  :;lo. 

Eye  of  the  Baltic  (The).  Gottlaud, 
in  the  Baltic. 

Eye  of  the  Storm.  An  opening 
between  the  storm  clouds.  {iSce  Bull's 
Eye.) 

Eyes. 

2'he  Almond  Eyes.    The  Chinese. 

"  He  will  not  receive  a  very  warm  welcome 
from  the  Almond  Kyes."— f.  ililidi- :  Uii  the  Central 
.Saints'  nest  (l8'.il). 

Eyes  to  the  blind.  A  staff.  So  called 
in  allusion  to  the  staff'  given  to  Tire'sias 
by  Athe'ua,  to  servo  liim  for  the  eyes 
of  which  she  had  deprived  him.      (Sec 

TiEESIAS.) 

To  east  sheep^s  eyes  at  one.  To  look 
askant  with  shjiiess  or  diffidence. 

To  make  eyes  at  one.  To  look  wan- 
tonly at  a  person ;  to  look  lovingly  at 
another. 

2o  rent  the  eyes  with  paint  {5  &x.\\.  30). 
The  ladies  of  the  East  tinge  the  edge  of 
their  eyelids  with  the  powder  of  lead- 
ore.  They  dip  into  the  powder  a  small 
wooden  bodkin, which  they  draw' 7/iro«y/i 
the  eyelids  over  the  ball  of  the  eye." 
Jezebel  is  said  "to  have  adjusted  her 
eyes  with  kohol"  (a  powder  of  lead- 
ore),  '2  Kings  ix.  30.  N.B.— The  word 
"  face  "  in  our  translation  should  in  both 
these  cases  be  rendered  "  eyes."  {Shaw  : 
Travch.) 


Your  eyes  are  biyyer  than  your  stomaeh. 
You  fancied  you  could  eat  more,  but 
found  your  appetite  satisfied  with  less 
than  you  expected.  "Oculi  plus  devora- 
bant  quam  capit  venter." 

Eyed. 

One-eyed  people.  {See  Arimasi'IAN.s, 
Cyclops.) 

Eyre.  Justiees  in  Eyre.  A  corrup- 
tion of  "Justices  in  itin'ere."  At  fiist 
they  made  the  circiut  of  the  kingdom 
every  seven  years,  but  Magna  Charta 
provided  that  it  should  be  done  annu- 
ally. 

Eyre  {Jane).  The  heroine  of  Char- 
lotte Bronte's  novel  so  called.  Jane 
Eyre  is  a  governess,  who  stoutly  copes 
with  adverse  circumstances,  and  ulti- 
mately wins  the  love  of  a  man  of  for- 
tune.   ('Eyre'  iirouounce  air.) 

Ezour  Ve'da  or  Yaji'ir  Veda.  Tlie 
second  of  the  sacred  books  of  the  Hindds. 
The  four  are : — 

(1)  The  Eig  Veda  (prayers  and  hymns 
in  verse) ; 

(2)  The  Ezour  Veda  (prayers  in 
prose)  ; 

(3)  The  <S'ff;Hri'^(prayerstobo  clianted)  ; 
and 

(4)  The  Atharran  Veda  (formulas  of 
consecration,  imprecation,  expiation, 
etc.). 

Ezzelin  (3  syl.).  Sir  Ezzelin  recog- 
nised count  Lara  at  the  table  of  Lord 
Otho,  and  charged  him  with  being  Con- 
rad the  corsair.  A  duel  was  arranged, 
and  EzzeUii  was  never  heard  of  more. 
A  serf  used  to  tell  how  one  evening  he 
saw  a  horseman  cast  a  dead  body  into 
the  river  which  divided  tlie  lands  of 
Otho  and  Lara,  and  that  there  was  a 
star  of  knighthood  on  the  breast  of  the 
dead    bodj'.        {Byron :    Lara.)       {See 

CONEAD.) 


F.  F  is  written  on  h  is  face.  "  Rogue  " 
is  wi-itten  on  his  face.  The  letter  F  used 
to  be  branded  near  the  nose,  ou  the  left 
cheek  of  felons,  on  their  being  admitted 
to  "benefit  of  clergy."  The  same  was 
used  for  brawling  in  church.  The  custom 
was  not  abolished  by  law  till  1822. 

F  Sharp.  A  flea.  The  inui  is  F, 
the  initial  letter,  and  sharp  because  tlie 
bite  is  acute.     (<SVt' B  Flats.) 

S.  A  corrupt  way  of  making  a  capital 
ff  in  Old  English,  and  used  as  low  down 


F.E.E.T. 


437 


Fabricius 


as  1750  ;  as  fFrance  for  France,  ffan-ing- 
tou  for  Farriugtou,  etc. 

F.  E.  B.  T.  Tlie  letters  of  the  Sar- 
dinian motto. 

Either  Fortltu'do  Iljiis  Rhochou  Toi'idt, 
in  allusion  to  the  succour  rendered  to 
Rhodes  by  the  house  of  Savoy,  1310 ; 

Or,  FceiKre  et  lleVif/ione  Ihiemur,  on 
the  gold  doubloon  of  Victor  Amadeus  I. ; 

Or,  Furtitu'do  Ejus  Jtempublicam  Tenet. 

F.  O.  B.  Free  on  board  ;  meaning 
tliat  the  shiijper,  from  the  time  of  ship- 
ment, is  free  from  all  risk. 

F's.  The  three  fs.  Fixed  tenure.  Fair 
rent,  Free  sale.  The  platform  of  the 
Irish  League  in  1880. 

Fa'  (Scotch).  To  get ;  to  get  a  share 
of  ;  to  lay  a  claim  to. 

"  Wlii'i-c  is  till'  l;iii'(l  or  lielted  knight 
Tliiit  l.i'st  lU'serves  to  fa'  tbat  ?" 
Jliiniti :  ]Vliiim  Will  Yc  Send,  stanza  i. 

Fabian  Society.  An  association  of 
socialists. 

"  The  Fabian  Society  aims  at  tho  n'nra:anis:itlon 
of  society  liy  the  eni'ancipiuinn  of  lainL  ami  iii- 
diistdal  capital  from  individual  and  class  owiier- 
sliip  :  and  the  vestinir  of  them  in  the  coimnunity 
for  the  general  l)eneflt."— //.  G.  Wilshire  :  Fabian 
£ssays  on  Socialism,  June,  1891,  p.  91. 

V  The  name  of  the  society  is  derived 
from  Quintus  Fabius,  the  Roman  general, 
■who  won  his  way  against  Hannibal  by 
wariness,  not  by  violence,  by  caution, 
not  by  defiance. 

"Fal)ian  tactics  lie  in  stealing  inches,  not  in 
grasping  leagues."  —  Liberty  Review,  May  I'Jth, 
lsy4,  p.  395,  col.  1. 

Fabian  Soldiers.  A  complimentary 
phrase  for  Roman  soldiers,  the  bravest 
of  the  brave. 

"  (Juem  [liand  of  trained  soldiers]  quideni  sic 
onini  disciplina  militari  [IphicrStes]  erudivit,  ut 
quemadniiS  lum  tjuondani  '  Fabiani  milltes' Ro- 
man! appellali  sunt,  sic  '  Iphicratenses"  apnd 
Griecos  in  suninia  laude  f ufirint."— A'e^jos ;  Jplii- 
crates,  ii. 

Fa'bian  Tactics  or  Folici/ — i.e.  de- 
lay. "  Win  like  Fabius,  by  delay." 
The  Roman  general  Fabius  wearied  out 
Hannibal  by  marches,  counter-marches, 
ambuscades,  and  skirmishes,  without  ever 
coming  to  an  open  engagement.  Fabius 
died  B.C.  203. 

"  Met  liy  the  Fabian  tactics,  which  proved  fatal 
tolls  predecessor."— T/ic  'J'itius. 

Fabianism.  The  system  called  Col- 
lectivism.     (See  COLLECTIVISTS.) 

"It  must  be  evident  that  the  Faliiau  Society 
has  a  really  gigantic  task  l.eforeit,  the  diflicul ties 
of  which  will  not  be  lightened  when  the  working 
classes  come  to  understand  that  small  ownership 
....  and  small  savings  ....  are  just  as  strongly 
condemned  l)y  Collectivists  as  large  estates  and 
colossal  turtunei."—Xinetcentli  Century  (Xoveui- 
ber,  1.S91',  p.  (i>^6). 

Fab'ila's  sad  Fate.  The  king  Don 
Fab'ila  was  a  man  of  very    obstinate 


purpose  and  fond  of  the  chase.  One  day 
he  encounteretl  a  boar,  and  commanded 
those  who  rode  witli  him  to  remain  quiet 
and  not  interfere  ;  but  the  boar  overthrew 
him  and  killed  him.  {Chromea  Antiqua 
de  Espanci,  p.  121.) 

Fa'bius.  The  American  Fabius. 
Wasliington  (1732-1799),  whose  military 
policy  was  similar  to  that  of  Fabius. 
He  wearied  out  the  English  troops  by 
harassing  them,  without  coming  to  a 
pitched  battle.  Duguesclin  pursued  the 
same  policy  in  France,  by  the  advice  of 
Charles  V. ,  whereby  all  the  conquests  of 
Edward  and  the  Black  Prince  were  re- 
trieved. 

Fa'dins  of  the  French.  Anne,  Due  de 
Montmorency,  grand  constableof  France ; 
so  called  from  his  success  in  almost  an- 
nihilating the  imperial  anny  which  had 
invaded  Provence,  by  laying  the  country 
waste  and  prolonging  the  campaign. 
(U93-1567.) 

Fables.  The  most  famous  writers  of 
fables  are — 

Pilpay,  among  the  Ilindiis. 

Lokmau,  among  the  ^'/;v<fc. 

iEsop  and  Babrios,  among  the  Greeks. 

Phajclius  and  Ai'ia'nus,  among  the 
lioiiiai/s. 

Faerne,  Abste'mius,  and  Casti,  among 
the  Italians.  The  last  wrote  The  Talk- 
ing Animals. 

La  Fontaine  and  Florian,  among  the 
Froich. 

John  Gay  and  Edward  Moore,  among 
our  owTi  countrymen.  The  former  is 
sometimes  called  "  The  English  iEsop." 

Lessing  and  Pfeffel,  among  the  Ger- 
mans. 

Krilof ,  among  the  liiissians. 

{See  iEsop.) 

Fabliaux.  The  metrical  fables  of 
the  Trouveres,  or  early  poets  north  of 
the  Loire,  in  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth 
centuries.  The  word  fable,  in  this  case, 
is  used  very  widely,  for  it  includes  not 
only  such  tales  as  liei/nard  the  Fox,  but 
all  sorts  of  familiar  incidents  of  knavery 
and  intrigue,  all  sorts  of  legends  and 
family  traditions.  The  fabliau  of  Ah- 
eassin  and  Xicolcttc  is  full  of  interesting 
incidents,  and  contains  much  true  pathos 
and  beautiful  poetry. 

Fabricius.  A  Roman  hero,  repre- 
sentative of  inflexible  purity  and 
honesty.  The  ancient  writers  love  to 
tell  of  the  frugal  way  in  which  he  lived 
on  his  hereditary  fann  ;  how  he  refused 
the  rich  presents  offered  him  by  the 
Samnite  ambassadors  ;  and  how  at  death 


Fabulinus 


43S 


Paction 


lie  left  no  portion  for  his  daughters, 
Avliom  tlie  senate  provided  for. 

"  Falirifiiis,  pcornfr  of  all-ci>ni|iieriii,!,'  ^'olil." 
'J'liiiiitsoii :  Sfusons  (Wilder). 

Fabuli'nus.  The  god  vrlio  taught 
Roman  eliiklren  to  utter  their  first  word. 
It  was  the  god  Vagitan-us  ('/.r.)  wlio 
tauglit  them  to  utter  their  first  cry. 
From^(/)v',  to  sj^eak  (Varro). 

Fabulous  Isles.  (&r??«r?<')- Islands.) 

Face.     (Latin,  f tides. ) 

yl  brazen  face.  A  bold,  defiant  look. 
A  /irazeii -faced  pcr,so!i  means  one  witli 
an  impudent,  audacious  look,  especially 
in  a  bad  cause.  Brass  metaphorically  is 
generally  used  in  a  bad  or  deprecatory 
sense,  as  "You  have  plenty  of  brass" 
[impudence],  "I  admire  your  brass." 

A  rebec  face  (French,  visage  de  rebec). 
An  ugly,  grotesque  face,  like  that  which 
used  to  be  cut  on  the  upper  part  of  a 
rebec  or  three-sti'inged  fiddle. 

"  Dead  is  tbe  nol)Ie  Badebec, 
Who  liart  a  face  like  a  rebec." 

JliiOelais :  Puntaijrucl,  book  ii.  ■). 

V  Badehec  was  the  mother  of  Gar- 
gantua,  and  died  in  childbirth. 

A  trri/faee.  The  features  drawn  awrj-, 
expressive  of  distaste. 

To  draw  a  lone/  face.  To  look  dis- 
satisfied or  sorrowful,  in  which  case  the 
mouth  is  di'awn  down  at  the  corners, 
the  ej-es  are  dejected,  and  the  face  elon- 
gated. 

"  Of  course,  it  is  all  right ;  if  you  had  not  drawn 
such  a  long  face  I  should  never  have  doubted."— 
l>r.  Cupid. 

To  fiij  ill  f  lie  face  of To  oppose 

violently  and  unreasonably:  to  set  at 
defiance  rashly. 

To  put  a  good  face  on  the  matter.  To 
make  the  best  of  a  bad  matter;  to 
bear  up  under  something  disagreeable ; 
"  raltn  malam  dis.iiiiia/drc  ;  ^'  ^' in  ad- 
fcrsis  ralfuin  secundcv  fortunfc  gerere.^' 

To  set  one'' s  face  against  [something]. 
To  oppose  it;  to  resist  its  being  done. 
The  expression  of  the  face  shows  the 
state  of  the  inclination  of  a  person's 
mind. 

Face  to  Face.  In  the  immediate 
presence  of  each  other ;  two  or  more 
persons  facing  each  other.  To  accuse 
another  "  face  to  face "  means  not 
"behind  his  back"  or  in  his  absence, 
but  while  i^resent. 

Faces. 

To  keep  tu-o  faces  under  one  hood.  To 
be  double-faced ;  to  pretend  to  be 
very  religious,  and  yet  live  an  evil  life. 


"Whenever  iri.nlileil  llie  Cbnrch  .  .  .  We  knew 
we  were  doinLr  wbar  \vi'  ouu'lit  not  to  do,  and 
sconieil  to  look  iiimis,  and  keep  two  faces  under 
one  \\<mi\."—Buldnii-iHiii:  Huhbcry  Vndcr  Arms, 
chap.  ii. 

To  wake  faces.  To  make  grimaces 
with  the  face. 

Face.  To  face  it  out.  To  persist  in 
an  assertion  which  is  not  true.  To  main- 
tain without  changing  colour  or  liangiug 
down  the  head. 

To  face  doirn.  To  withstand  with 
boldness  and  effronterj'. 

Faced.  With  a  facing,  lining  of  the 
cuifs,  etc.  ;  also  the  preterite  of  the  verb 
"  to  face." 

Faced. 

Bare-faced.  Impudence  unconcealed. 
A  "  bare-faced  lie  "  is  a  lie  told  shame- 
lessly and  without  prevarication. 

<57/  ame -faced.  Having  shame  expressed 
in  the  face. 

Faced  u-ith  [sil/:,  etc.].  An  inferior 
article  bearing  the  surface  of  a  superior 
one,  as  when  cotton-velvet  has  a  silk 
surface;  the  "facings"  (as  the  lining 
of  coat-cuff.s,  etc.)  made  of  silk,  etc. 

Face-card  or  Faced-card.  A  coiu't 
card,  a  card  with  a  face  on  it. 

Facile  Princeps. 

admittedly  first. 

"But  the  farilij  princeps  of  all  pvpsolou'ists  is 
PiMffssor  i'.ut,  of  Halle."— Wi(i;«(/('r»'«  Cyclo- 
pwdid. 

Facings.  To  pat  one  ihroagh  his 
facings.  To  examine ;  to  ascertain  if 
wdiat  appears  on  the  siu-face  is  sujDerficial 
only. 

"The  Greek  books  were  apaiii  had  out,  and 
Grace  ....  was  init  through  her  facings. '— .4. 

Trollope. 

Fagon  de  Parler.  Idiomatic  or 
usual  form  of  speech,  not  meant  to  be 
offensive.  I  once  told  a  waiter  in 
Norway  that  the  meat  he  brought  me 
for  breakfast  was  not  sufticicntly  cooked, 
and  he  bluntly  told  me  it  was  not  true 
{(let  er  ikke  sandt),  but  he  did  not  intend 
to  be  rude.  It  was  the  Norwegian 
^'■fai^oii  de  parler.''^ 

Fac'tion.  The  Romans  divided  the 
combatants  in  the  circus  into  classes, 
called  factions,  each  class  being  distin- 
guished by  its  special  colour,  like  the 
crews  of  a  boat-race.  The  four  original 
factions  were  the  leek-green  (pras'tna), 
the  sea-blue  (ren'eta),  the  white  (alba), 
and  the  rose-red  (ros'ea).  Two  other 
factions  were  added  by  Domitian,  the 
colours  being  golden-yellow  (aara'ta)  and 
purple.  As  these  combatants  strove 
against  each  other,  and  entertained  a 


By  far  the  best ; 


Factor 


439 


Fag 


strong  esprit    de    corps,   the  word,  was 
easily  aiiplied  to  political  partisans. 

V  lu  the  faction  riots  of  Constanti- 
nople, A.D.  532,  above  30,000  persons 
were  killed.     (Latin,  _/ffC^/o. ) 

Fac'tor.  An  agent ;  a  substitute  in 
mercantile  affairs  ;  a  commission  mer- 
chant. {La.tin,fiicio,  to  do,  whence  the 
French  factciir,  one  who  does  something 
for  an  employer.) 

"  Asleep  and  niikeil  as  an  Inilian  lay, 
An  liiinest  f:iitur  j;tiilea  :.-eni  a\va>." 

J\>lie :  Mdiiil  lis.tii !;.■<,  Kp.  iii.3GI. 

Thomas  Pitt,  ancestor  of  the  Earl  of 
Chatham,  was  appointed  by  Queen  Anne 
Governor  of  P^ort  St.  George,  in  the 
East  Indies,  and  in  1702  purchased  there, 
for  £20,400,  a  diamond  weigliing  127 
carats,  which  he  sold  to  the  King  of 
France.  This  gem  is  still  called  the 
Pitt  diamond.  Pope  insinuates  that 
Pitt  stole  the  diamond.  This  is  not 
exactly  true.  He  obtained  it  for  a  price 
much  below  its  value,  and  threatened 
the  thief  with  exposui'e  if  he  made  a 
fuss  about  the  matter. 

Factotum.  One  who  does  for  his 
emploj'er  all  sorts  of  services.  iSome- 
times  called  a  Juluin'ncs  luictu'dou.  Our 
"  Jack-of-all-trades  "  does  not  mean  a 
factotum,  but  one  who  does  odd  jobs 
for  anyone  who  will  pay  him.  (Latin, 
faccrc  tcitinii,  to  do  everything  required.) 

Fad  (A).  A  hobby,  a  temporary 
fanc}',  a  whim.  A  contraction  of  faddle 
in  "  tiddle -faddle." 

"  Among  the  fads  that  Charley  had  taken  up  for 
a  time  .  .  .  was  that  of  eollecting  old  priuts."— 
i:!Jl/le--<tou  :  Faith  Voctur,  chap.  iii. 

Fada.  A  fee  or  kobold  of  the  south 
of  France,  sometimes  called  "Hada." 
These  house-spirits,  of  which,  strictly 
speaking,  there  are  but  three,  bring 
good  luck  in  their  riglit  hand  and  ill 
lack  in  their  left. 

Faddn,.    Mahomet's  white  mide. 

Fadge  (1  syl.).  To  suit  or  fit  to- 
gether, as.  It  wojiH  fachjc  ;  xve  cannot 
Jwlyc  together ;  he  dues  not  fdd'jc  with 
me.  (Anglo-Saxon,  fiegcn,  to  lit  to- 
gether ;  \Velsh,_/^(7(/,  what  tends  to  unite.) 

'■  llijw  will  this  fadge?" 

Shakespeare  :  Ta-elflh  Mijht,  ii.  'J. 

Fadge.  A  farthing.  A  coiTupt  con- 
traction of  fardingal,  i.e.  farthingale. 
{See  Chivy.) 

Fa'dha  (-Al).  Mahomet's  silver  cui- 
rass, confiscated  from  the  Jews  on  their 
expulsion  from  Medi'na. 

Fadladeen'.  The  great  Nazir',  or 
chamberlain    of    Aurungze'be's   harem, 


in  Lalla  Iloohh.  The  criticism  of  this 
self -conceited  courtier  upon  the  several 
tales  which  make  up  the  romance  are 
very  racy  and  full  of  humour  ;  and  his 
crest-fallen  conceit  when  he  finds  out 
that  the  jjoet  was  the  Prince  in  disguise 
is  well  conceived. 

"  He  wasa  jmlge  of  everything— from  the  iien- 
cilling  of  a  Circassian's  eyelids  to  the  deepest 
iliiesticms  of  science  and  litemture  ;  from  the 
mixture  of  a  conserve  of  rose-leaves  to  the  coni- 
pusiiion  of  an  epic  poem  ...  all  the  cooks  and 
IKiets  of  Delhi  stood  in  awe  of  him."— '7'.  Moure. 

Faerie  or  Feerie.  The  land  of  the 
fays  or  faeries.  The  cliief  fay  realms 
are  Av'alon,  an  island  sojnewliere  in  the 
ocean;  O'beron's  dominions,  situate  "in 
wilderness  among  the  holtis  hairy ; " 
and  a  realm  somewhere  in  the  middle 
of  the  earth,  where  was  Pari  Banou's 
palace. 

■'For  learned  CoVn  [Spenser]  lays  his  pipes  to  gage, 
And  is  to  Faery  gone  a  pilgrimage." 

iiriiytun :  liclooue,  iu. 

Faerie  Queene.  A  metrical  romance 
in  six  books,  by  Edmund  Spenser  (in- 
complete). It  tletails  the  adventures  of 
various  knights,  who  impersonate  dif- 
ferent virtues,  and  belong  to  the  court 
of  Gloria'ua,  Queen  of  faerie  land. 

The  first  book  contains  the  legend  of 
the  Eed  Cross  Knight  (the  .spirit  of 
Cliristi(tnitij),  and  is  by  far  the  best. 
The  chief  subject  is  the  victory  of  Holi- 
ness over  Error.  It  contains  twelve 
cantos. 

The  second  book  is  the  legend  of  Sir 
Guyou  {the  (/olden  mean),  in  twelve 
cantos. 

The  third  book  is  the  legend  of 
Britomartis  {lore  leithout  tust),  in  twelve 
cantos.  Britomartis  is  Diana,  or  Queen 
Elizabeth  the  Britoness. 

The  fourth  book  is  the  legend  of 
Cambel  and  Tri'amond  {Jidetiti/),  in 
twelve  cantos. 

The  fifth  book  is  the  legend  of  Ar'te- 
gal  {Justice),  in  twelve  cantos. 

The  sixth  book  is  the  legend  of  Sir 
Cal'idore  {courtesij),  in  twelve  cantos. 

There  are  parts  of  a  seventh  book — ; 
viz.  cantos  G  and  7,  and  two  stanzas  oi 
canto  three.     The  subject  is  MutabiUtfi . 

The  plan  of  the  Faerie  Qwenc  is  bor- 
rowed from  the  Orlando  Fnrioso,  but 
the  creative  power  of  Spenser  is  more 
original,  and  his  imagery  more  striking, 
than  Ai'iosto's.     Thomson  says  of  him — 

"  [He]  like  a  copious  river,  poured  his  song 
O  er  all  the  mazes  of  enchanted  ground." 

The  Seasons  (Summer),  1S74-3. 

Fag.  One  who  does,  and  perseveres 
in  doing.  In  public  schools,  it  means 
a  little  boy  who  waits   upon  a  bigger 


Fag-end 


440 


Pair  Maid 


one.       Probably  a  coutracted  form   of 
factor, /((ctottim  ;  'L,a.im,fac-e)e,  to  do. 

Far/.  Servant  of  Captain  Absolute,  who 
apes  ins  master  in  all  things.  {'Sheridan  : 
The  Rivals.) 

"Even  tlie  mendacimis  Mr.  Fhl,'  iissures  us, 
tlimitrli  lie  never  sctuiiIps  to  tell  a  lie  at  liis 
master's  command,  .vet  it  Imrts  liis  conscience 
to  lie  found  out."— ,S/y  Walter  Scott. 

Fag-end  (A).  The  selvedge  or  coarse 
end  of  a  piece  of  cloth.  This  also  is 
from  facia,  faclaiii,  meaning  the  part 
added  after  the  i^iece  is  finished.  The 
fag-end  of  a  session  means  the  last  few 
da^'s  before  dissolution. 

Fagged  Out.  Wearied  with  hard 
Work.     Fatigued  contracted  into  fa' fed. 

Fa'gin.  An  infamous  Jew,  who 
teaches  boys  and  girls  to  rob  with  dex- 
terity.    {iJickcH.s :  Oliver  I'lcisf.) 

Fagot.  A  badge  worn  in  median-al 
times  by  those  wlio  had  recanted  their 
"heretical"  opinions.  It  was  designed 
to  sliow  what  they  merited,  but  had 
narrowly  escaped.     {Sec  rAGOTS.) 

//  1/  a  f(((/ot.s  ct  fagots.  There  are 
divers  sorts  of  fagots ;  every  alike  is 
not  the  same.  Ihe  expression  is  in 
Moliere's  Le  Mcdecin  mal<jre  l/ii,  where 
Sganarelle  wants  to  show  that  his  fagots 
are  better  than  those  of  other  persons ; 
"Ay,  but  those  fagots  are  not  so  good 
as  my  fagots."  (Welsh,  J/'ar/,  that 
which  unites  ;  Anglo-Saxon,  fayau,  to 
unite.) 

Hcntirc  Us  fagots.  To  be  heretical ;  to 
smack  of  the  fagots.  In  allusion  to  the 
custom  of  burning  heretics  by  surround- 
ing them  with  blazing  fagpts. 

Fagot  Votes.  Totes  obtained  by  the 
nominal  transfer  of  property  to  a  person 
whose  income  was  not  otherwise  suffi- 
cient to  qualify  him  for  being  a  voter. 

The  "  fagot  "  was  a  bundle  of  property 
divided  into  small  lots  for  the  purpose 
stated  above.     Abolished. 

"  The  object  was  to  prevent  the  creation  of 
fa.L'ot  votes."— r/ie  Timea. 

Fagots.  Cakes  made  of  the  "intides" 
of  pigs,  with  thjTne,  scraps  of  pork, 
sage,  ouions,  and  other  herbs,  fried 
together  in  grease,  and  eaten  with  pota- 
toes.    (Greek,  phacjo,  to  eat.) 

Fah'fah.  One  of  the  rivers  of  Para- 
dise in  Mahometan  mythology. 

Fa'ids.    The  second  class  of  Druids. 

Fai'ence(2syl.).  Majolica.  So  called 
from  Faen'za,  where,  in  1299,  it  was  first 
manufactured.  It  is  termed  majolica 
because  the  first  specimens  the  Italians 


saw  came  from  Majorca.  In  France  it 
now  means  a  fine  ware  not  ec^ual  to 
porcelain. 

Fain'eant.  Les  liois  Faineants  (the 
cipher  or  puppet  kings).  Clovis  II.  and 
his  ten  successors  were  the  pujipet  kings 
of  the  Palace  Mayors.  Louis  V.  (last  of 
the  Carlovingian  dynasty)  received  the 
same  designation. 

"'My  signet  you  shall  couiuiand  with  all  uiy 
lieari,  madam.'  said  Karl  rhilip.  ...  '1  am,  you 
know,  a  coniiilete  Jimi  Fniiiniiit.  and  never  once 
interfered  wtli  luv  ilnirr  iln  I'nliiis  in  her  i  ro- 
ceedin,i,'s.'"— ,S(/-  Halhr  .•<i-oU  :  It  aril  nf  the  I'cal,-, 
cliaii.  .w. 

Faint.  Faint  heart  iu-\r  won  fair 
ladij. 

"  The  hold  a  way  will  find  or  make." 

Ki\Hj  :  Orplieus  and  Earydice. 
"  I'aint  liarts  faire  ladies  neuer  win."  (l.V!!).) 
riiUiioibiiuti  Snciiliff  Viiblirations  (Im:;7,  i<.  SJ). 

Faint  Hearted.  Easily  discouraged ; 
afraid  to  venture. 

Fair  ( The). 

Charles  IV.,  Khig  of  France,  k  Del 
(1291,  1322-13'28). 

Philippe  IV.  of  France,  le  Del  (12G8, 
1285-1314). 

Fair  as  Ladij  Done.  A  great  Chesliire 
family  that  has  long  occujiied  a  mansion 
at  Utkinton.     {Cheshire  e.rpression.) 

Fair  Geraldinc.     {See  Gkealdine.) 

Fair  llosanwnd.     {See  Rosamond.) 

To  bid  fair,  as  "he  bids  fair  to  be  a 
good  ..."  To  give  good  jnomise  of 
being  .  .  .  ;  to  indicate  future  success 
or  excellence  ;  one  dv  qao  bene  .yjcrdre 
licet. 

Fair  as  a  lihj.     {See  Similes.) 

Fair.  (Latin /rr(<<",  holidays.) 
A  daij  after  the  fair.  Too  late  for  the 
fun.  "  Sero  ccrpiiint  Fhri/f/es."  The 
Phrygians  were  noted  for  their  obsti- 
nacy ;  hence,  Fliri/.v  rerberat/is  ■nielior. 
They  were  thrice  conquered :  by  Her- 
cules, the  Greeks,  and  the  Latins,  and 
were  wise  "  after  the  events." 

Fair  {Sloe).     {See  Sloe-faie.) 

Fair  {Sta(ate).     {See  Mop.) 

Fair  City.  Perth  ;  zo  called  from 
the  beauty  of  its  situation. 

Fair  Game.  A  worthy  subject  of 
banter ;  one  who  exposes  himself  to 
ridicule. 

"  Bourrienne  is  fair  pame  ;  but  the  whole  of  his 
statements  are  not  worthless."— TAe  Spectator, 
Feb.  l,Hth,  l.Stts. 

Fair  Maid  {The). 

Fair  Maid  <f  Arijoa.  Lady  Edith 
Plautagenet,  who  married  David,  Prince 
Koyal  of  Scotland. 


Fair-star 


441 


Fairies 


Fair  Maid  of  Fehruar)/.  The  snow- 
drop, which  blossoms  in  Februaiy. 

Fair  Maid  of  Kent.  Jean,  Countess  of 
Salisbury,  wife  of  the  Black  Prince,  and 
only  daughter  of  Edniond  Plantagenet, 
Earl  of  Kent.  She  had  been  twice  mar- 
ried ere  she  gave  Iier  hand  to  the  prince. 

Fair  Jflaid  of  Xorivaij.  Margaret, 
daughter  of  Eric  II.  of  Norway,  and 
granddaughter  of  Alexander  III.  of 
Scotland.  Being  recognised  by  the 
states  of  Scotland  as  successor  to  the 
throne,  she  set  out  for  her  new  king- 
dom, but  died  on  her  passage  from  sea- 
sickness.    (1290.) 

Fair  Maid  of  Perth.  Katie  Glover, 
the  most  beautiful  young  woman  of 
Perth.  Heroine  of  Scott's  novel  of  the 
same  name. 

Fair-star.  The  Priiicfss  Fair-star, 
in  love  with  Prince  Chery,  whom  she 
sets  to  obtain  for  her  "  the  dancing 
water,"  "the  singing  apple,"  and  ''the 
green  bird"  {q.v.).  This  tale  is  bor- 
rowed from  the  fairy  tales  of  Straparo'la 
the  Milanese.  (1550.)  Cherij  and  F\(ir- 
s!ar,  Inj  the  Cuuidess  d''Aa/no!/. 

Fair  Trade.     Smuggling. 

"  Xeitlicr  Dirl;  Uiittorairk  iiorHiiy  (if  lii-;  sailors, 
.ill  well  kiiuwii  men  in  tlii'  fail'  trade,  were  au'aiii 
seen  iii"in  tliat  o-.isi." —Sir  ^yalle|■  ,Scutt:  Guy 
Maiiiwriii!/,  eliap.  x. 

•.•  Latierly  tlie  phrase  lias  been  iiitroduceil  into 
1)  ilities  til  sisrnify  reciimicity  (if  pmtection 
or  free-trade.  That  is,  free-trade  to  those  nations 
that  grant  free-trade  to  us,  and  vice  versa. 

Fair  Way.  In  a  fair  wai/.  On  the 
right  tack.  The  ''  fair  way  "  is  the  projier 
track  through  a  chaunol. 

Fair  and  Square.  Honestly,  justly, 
with  straightforwardness. 

Fair  fall  you.     Good  befall  you. 

Fair  Play  is  a  Jewel.  As  a  jewel 
is  an  oruam?ut  of  beauty  and  value, 
so  fair  play  is  an  honourablii  thing  and 
a  "jewel  in  the  crowu"  of  the  player. 

Fairies,  good  and  bad. 

AFaF.F.T  or  Efrf.rt,  one  of  the  Jinn  trihe,  of 
which  there  are  live.  (See  Story  of  the  Second 
Calendiir.) 

App.viUTtox.    A  cliost. 

AllIEr..     (.Sec  AlUEl,.) 

Baxshek  or  BF.NSHER,  an  Irish  fairy  attached 
to  a  house.    (*c  Banshee.) 

Boor.AiiT.  (Scotch.)  A  local  holigolilin  or 
sprit. 

Booie  or  Bofii.E,  a  liusbeir  (Scotch  form  of 
bull).    (.See  BotiiE.) 

BitowxiK.  a  Sc(it(!h  domestic  fairy ;  the  ser- 
vants' friend  if  well  treated.    (.See  Browxie.) 

BuPr  or  Bt^oiiEAR,  any  imaginary  thing  that 
frightens  a  person.    (Welsh,  6ico.)    (.See  Bun.) 

f'AUi.i)  Lad  (T/if),  the  Brownie  of  Hilton  Hall. 
(.SceCAUi.i)  Lad  ) 

D.nxx,  Jix,  or  Ciixx  (Arabian).    (.See  Jixx.) 

Uuexde  (S  syl.),  a  Spanish  house-spirit.    (.See 

DUEXDE.I 

DWAUF,  a  diminutive  being,  human  or  super- 
human.   (Anglo-Saxon,  dioeorg.) 


D\VRur;ER,  DwERoroit,  or  Dceroau,  Gotho- 
Gennan  dwarfs,  dwelling  in  rocks  and  hills. 
(Ani,'lo-Saxon.((»-e..)-r/;i.) 

Ei.K  (pill.  Ei.vKs),  fairies  of  diminutive  size, 
supposed  to  lie  f.iiid  of  practical  jokes.  (Anglo- 
S:l\on,  (£■//.)     (.Str  El.F.) 

EI.I.E-.MA1D  (jr  Elle-womax,  Elt-f.-folk,  of 
Scandinavia. 

Esi'RiT  Foi.l.F.T,  the  house-spirit  of  France. 

Fairy  or  Faf.rie  (plu.  Fairies),  a  super- 
natural being,  fond  of  pranks,  but  generally 
pleasing.    Kicrnian  and  Freiicli,  Ac.) 

Familiar  (,4),  an  evil  sjiirit  attend:int  on 
witelics,  etc.    (,S,c  Familiar.) 

FA-rA.an  Italian  fay,  or  white  lady,' 

Fates,  the  three  spirits  (t'lotho.LachSsis,  and 
Atrilpos)  which  preside  over  the  destiny  of  every 
individual.    ( Latin, /«(((.) 

Fay  (phi.  Fays),  same  as  Fairy  (q.v.). 

Fear  Dearo  {Tlie),  i.e.  Red  Man.  A  house- 
sjiirit  of  Mnnster. 

UEXii  (plu.).  The  siiLg.  genie  and  gevins. 
Eistern  spirits,  whether  good  or  bad,  whopres'd  • 
overaman  or  nation.  "He  is  my  evil  [or  good] 
genius."    (Latin,  (/eH/^^^■.)    (.See  GEXirs.) 

Hhost,  the  immaterial  body  or  iioumenon  of 
a  liuuuin  being.  Supposed  to  be  free  to  visit  the 
e.utli  at  niu'ht-tiuie,  liut  obliged  to  return  to  its 
Ha('5.;at  the  llrst  dawn. 

(iiioci,,  a  demon  that  feeds  on  the  dead.  (Per- 
sian.) 

GxoMK  (1  syl.),  the  guardian  of  mines,  tjuarries 
etc.     (Greek,  yvuifxy],  a  Cabalistic  being.)     (.See 

GXOMKS.) 

tioHt.ix  or  HontiOBi.tx,  a  pliant(mi  spirit. 
(French,  goheiin  ;  German,  kobold.) 

(ii)oD  Folk  (Tiie).  The  Brownies  or  liouse- 
spirils. 

Gi-VRDtAX-AXGEt,,  an  angelic  spirit  which  pre- 
sides over  the  desiiny  of  each  individual. 

Haiuniiia,  (|iieeii  of  the  Wliire  Ladies. 

Hah  (.4),  a  female  fury.  .Milton  (Coinus  U:,') 
si.eak-iot  "lilueiiie.ML-re  liai-'S.'- 

Hamadrvaip,  a  Wdo.i-nv  niph.  Each  treehasits 
own  wood-nyiiipli,  «  lio  ,l.e^  when  the  tree  dies. 

HoiiooiiT.iN.  (.--'..  iil,.,i; ,  CuuLls.)  Hob  is  Robin, 
as  Hodge  is  Roger. 

HoRXs  or  HoRXiE,  the  Devil.    (.See  Horxie.) 

I  SIP,  a  puny  demon  or  spirit  of  mischief.  (Welsh, 

!»//).) 

.Iack-a-Laxtp.rx,  a  bog  or  marsh  spirit  who 
deliL.'lils  to  mislead 

,liNX  or  (iiNX.  (.SeeJixx.)  TheseArabian spirits 
were  formed  of  "smokeless  fire." 

Kei.pie  c;  syl.).  In  Scotland,  an  imaginary 
spirit  of  the  waters  in  the  form  of  a  horsed  (.See 
Kei.pie.) 

KonoLD,  a  German  household  goblin,  also  fre- 
(lueuting  mines.  ((4erman,  r.iihnld,)  i.s,,-  Kduoi.ii.) 

Lam'ia  (plu.  Lam'i.k),  a  liai;  or  demon.  Keais's 
Lamia  is  a  serpent  which  had  assumed  the  form 
of  a  beautiful  woman,  beloved  by  a  young  man, 
and  gets  a  soul.    (Latin,  Lniiiin.)  '  (.See  L.\MIA.) 

Lamies,  African  spectre;,  having  the  head  (jf  a 
woman  and  tail  of  a  serpent.    (.See  L.\mif,s.) 

Lar  (plu.  Lares)  (i  syl.),  Latin  household 
deities.    (.See  Lares.) 

Leprechaux,  a  fairy  shoemaker. 

Mar,  the  fanes'  midwife.  Sometimes  incor- 
rectly called  (lueen  of  the  fairies.    (Welsh,  viab.) 

(.S,e  JIAB.) 

-Mandrake.    (.See  Mandrake.) 

:Mkr.maid,  a  sea-spirit,  the  upper  part  a  W(jinan 
and  the  lower  half  a  fish. 

.Merrows,  lioth  male  and  female,  are  spirits  of 
the  sea,  of  liiiman  sliape  from  the  waist  upwards, 
but  from  Ilie  waist  (hiwnwardsaiv  likea  fish.  The 
females  are  attr.iiiive.  but  the  males  have  green 
teeth,  green  hair,  pi'_''s  eyes,  and  red  noses.  Fish- 
eriiieii  dread  to  meet  them. 

.MoNAciELLO  or  Little  Moxk, a  house-spirit 
of  Naples. 

Xaiad  (plu.  Naiades  [.•?  syl.]  or  Naiads  [2syl.]), 
w.iier-nymphs.    (Latin.)    (.See  Naiads.) 

Xis  or  Xisse  (■_'  syl.),  a  Koliold  or  Brownie.  A 
Si  amliuavian  f.airy  friendly  to  farmhouses.  (Con- 
traction of  .\iC(di(its.) 

Ni-x  (female,  Ni.\ie),  a  \vater-spirit.  The  n;"j; 
has  green  teeth,  and  wears  a  green  hat  ;  the  ni:cie 
is  very  beautiful. 

Obebox,  king  of  the  fairies. 


Fairies 


442 


Fairy  Kings 


OfiRK  [pronounce  07">"],an  inlialiitant  of  fairy- 
land said  to  fi-rd  mi  Infant  rliiklren.    (Frencli.) 

Oresds,  niounlain  n.vnii>lis.    ((Jrock,  o?'tis.) 

OUPHE  (:;  s.\  I.),  a  fairy  or  f-'olilin, 

Peri,  a  Persian  fairy.  Kvil  iieris  are  called 
"  Deevs." 

Pkj WIDGEON,  a  fairy  of  very  diminutive 
size. 

Pixy  or  Pixie  (also  jiisgy,  pisgie),  a  Devon- 
shire fairy,  same  as  Puck. 

PocKE  (1  syl.),  same  as  Puck.    (.See  Poukk.) 

Puck,  a  merry  littl(!  fairy  sinrit,  full  of  funand 
harmless  mischief.  (Icelandic  and, S\v'edish,j(!i/i'e.) 
(See  PucK.l 

RoKtx-fiooDFEi.i.ow,  another  name  for  Puck.) 
{See  ROBIX  .  .  .  .) 

SAT.AMAXnKB,  a  Spirit  which  lives  in  tire. 
(Latin   and  Greek,   sulamanclra.)       (See    Sai.a- 

WAXDRA.) 

.Shades,  ghosts. 

Spectre,  a  ghost.  ° 

Spook  (in  Theojophy),  an  elemental. 

Sprite,  a  spirit. 

Stromkart.,  a  Norwegian  musical  spirit,  like 
Neck.    (.S'eeSTROMKARi..) 

Syi.ph,  a  spirit  of  the  air;  so  named  l)y  the 
Rcjsicriuians  and  Cabalists.  (Greek,  silphe; 
French,  siil/ildde.)     (See  Syi.pHS.) 

Triton,  a  sea  deity,  who  dwells  with  Father 
Neptune  in  a  L'oldcn  I'lalacr  at  the  l)ott(mi  of  the 
sea.  'J'lic  clii.'f  cnipliiyniciit  nf  tritons  is  to  blow 
a  concli  to  siiini.ih  111'-  se.a  wliiMi  it  is  rutlled. 

Titcii.L.  a  liill-spir)t.  Hence  Trolls  are  called 
Hill-p  '^'I'li'iT  llill-fidk.suppiised  to  lie  immensely 
rich,  and  especially  dislike  noise.    (.SVc  Tiioi.i.s.) 

Un'dine  (:;  syl.;,  a  water-nymiih.  (Latin,  joida.) 
(.See  UXDIXE.) 

Urchin  properly  means  a  hedgehog,  and  is 
applied  to  niisriiicv.ms  children  and  small  folk 
genei-allv.    i  ^f  ^   luniiN.) 

Vamcihf,  (j  ^il  I,  I  Ih' spirit  of  a  dead  man  that 
haunts  a  limisc  and  sucks  the  blood  of  the  living. 
A  Hungarian  supeisiiti.in.    (See  Vampire.) 

WERii-Woi-b'  (An.i,'lii-.Saxiin,  irer-icidf,  man- 
wolf),  a  human  beinu',  snniciiincs  in  one  form  and 
sometimes  in  another.    (See  WERE-Woi,h'.) 

White  Ladie.s  oi',  Normandy.  (See  'VViiite 
Ladik.s.) 

Whh'e  Lady  (The)  of  the  royal  family  of 
Prussia.  A. "spirit"  said  to  appear  before  the 
death  of  one  of  the  family.    (See  White  Lady.) 

White  Lady  ok  Avenel  (:!  syl.),  a  tutelary 
spirit. 

White  Lady  of  Ireland  (The),  the  banshee  or 
domestic  spirit  of  a  family. 

White  Merle  (The),  of  the  old  Basiiues.  A 
white  fairy  bird,  which,  !>y  its  singing,  restored 
sight  to  the  blind. 

Wight, any  human  creature,  as  a  "Highland 
wight."    Dwarfs  and  all  other  fairy  creatures. 

Wii.L-o'-THE-Wisr,  a  spirit  of  the  liogs,  whose 
delight  is  to  mislead  brlat.'d  travi'llers. 

Wraith  (Si'i itch), the  ghost  i>f  a  person  shortly 
about  to  die  nr  just  dead,  which  appears  to  sur- 
vivors, siimetiines  at  a  great  distance  off.  (See 
Wraith,  Household  Spirit.s.) 

Fairies  are  the  dispossessed  spirits 
which  once  inhabited  human  bodies,  but 
are  not  yet  meet  to  dwell  with  the 
".saints  in  light." 

"  All  those  airy  shapes  you  now  behold 
Were  human   bodies  once,  and   clothed   with 

earthly  mould  ; 
Our  souls,  not  yet  prepared  for  upper  light. 
Till  doomsday  wander  in  the  shades  of  night." 
Drydeii :  The  t'luicer  and  the  Leaf. 

Fairing  (A).  A  present  from  a  fair. 
The  i//c/  is  a  patrtmymic  =  a  descendant 
of,  come  from,  belonging  to. 

"  Fairings  come  thus  plentifully  in." 
Shalcespeare :  Love'a  Labour's  Lout,  v.  2. 

Fair'limb.  The  sister  of  Bitelas  and 
daughter  of  Rukenaw,  the  ape ;  in  the 
tale  of  Meynard  the  Fox. 


Fairservicc  (A)uhrir).  A  shrewd 
Scotch  gardener  at  Osbaldis'tone  Hall. 
{Sir  fValter  Scott :  Hob  Roy.) 

Fairy   of  nursery  mythology  is  the 
personification  of  Providence.    The  good 
ones  are  called  fairies,  elves,  elle-folks, 
and    fays ;    the   evil    ones   are  urchin.«, 
ouphes,  ell-maids,  and  ell-women. 
"  Fairies,  black,  grey,  green,  and  white. 
Yon  mocinshine  re\  eilers.and  shades  of  night, 
Y<ni  ouphen-beirs  of  llxed  destiny, 
Attend  your  otiice." 
Shakefpeare  :  Merry  11'/ rc.«  nf  ^\'it^(lsor,  v.  5. 

TIic  dress  of  the  fairies.  They  wear  a 
red  conical  cap ;  a  mauf  le  of  green 
cloth,  inlaid  with  wild  flowers  ;  greeu 
pantaloons,  buttoned  with  bobs  of  silk  ; 
and  silver  shoon.  They  carry  quivers 
of  adder-slough,  and  bows  made  of  the 
ribs  of  a  man  buried  where  ''  three 
lairds'  lands  meet ;  "  their  arrows  are 
made  of  bog-reed,  tipped  with  white 
flints,  and  dipped  in  the  dew  of  hemlock  ; 
they  ride  on  steeds  whose  hoofs  would 
not  "dash  the  dew  from  the  cup  of  a 
harebell."     {Cronulc .) 

"  Fairies  small,  two  font  tall. 

With  caps  red  on  their  head." 
Dod.ileu's  Old  Plays:  Fidnuis  'J'roes,  i.  .'j. 

Fairy  Darts.  nint  arrow-heads, 
supposed  at  one  time  to  have  been 
thrown  by  fairies  in  their  pranks. 

Fairy  Hillocks.  Little  knolls  of 
grass,  like  mole-liills.  said  in  the  "  good 
old  times  "  to  bo  the  homes  of  fairies. 

Fairy  Ladies  or  Mrn/e,  such  as 
Urganda,  the  guardian  of  Amadi'gi ;  the 
fair  Oria'iia ;  Silva'na,  the  guardian  of 
Alido'i'O ;  Luci'na,  the  i^rotectress  of 
Alido'ro  and  his  lady-love,  the  maiden- 
warrior,  Mirinda  ;  Eufros'ina,  the  sister 
of  Luci'na ;  Argea,  the  protecti-ess  of 
Floridante ;  and  Filide'a,  sister  of  Ardea; 
all  in  Tasso's  Amadi'yi. 

Fairy  Land.  The  land  where  fairies 
are  supposed  to  dwell ;  dreamland  ;  a 
place  of  great  delight  and  happiness. 

"The  fairest  of  fairy  lands— the  land  of  home." 
Jean  Iiir/eloic :  The  Letter,  part  i.  stanza  :-;i. 

Fairy    Loaves    or   Fairy    Stones. 

Fo.ssil  sea-urchins  [echi'iii),    .said    to   be 
mnde  by  the  fairies. 

Fairy  Money.  Found  monej-.  Said 
to  be  placed  by  some  good  fairy  at  tlie 
spot  where  it  was  picked  up.  "Fairy 
money"  is  apt  to  be  transformed  into 
leaves. 

Fairy  Rings.  Circles  of  rank  or 
withered  grass,  often  seen  in  lawns, 
meadows,  and  grass-plots.  Said  to  be 
produced  by  the  fairies  dancing  on  the 
si^ot.     In  sober  truth,   these  rings  are 


Fairy  Sparks 


443 


Fall 


simply  an  agt'aric  or  fungus  below  the 
surface,  which  has  seeded  in  a  circular 
range,  as  many  plants  do.  Where  the 
ring  is  hroioi  and  almost  hare,  the 
"spawn"  is  of  a  greyish-white  colour. 
The  grass  dies  because  the  spawn  en- 
velops the  roots  so  as  to  prevent  their 
absorbing  moisture  ;  but  where  the  grass 
is  rank  the  "spawn"  is  dead,  and 
serves  as  manure  to  the  young  grass. 

"  Vciu  ilenii-inipiiots,  tli;it 
Bv  iiionnsliiiie  do  tlic  f-'i'een-soui'  ringlets  iiialu-, 
Wliei-ei)f  the  ewe  not  liites." 

Sliiikespeare :  Tempest,  v.  1. 

Fairy  Sparks.  The  phosphoric  light 
from  decaying  wood,  fish,  and  other 
substances.  Thought  at  one  time  to  be 
lights  prei^ared  for  the  fairies  at  tlieir 
revels. 

Fairy  of  the  Mine.  A  malevolent 
being  sujiposed  to  live  in  mines,  busying 
itself  with  cutting  ore,  turning  the  wind- 
lass, etc.,  and  yet  effecting  nothing.  {See 
Gnome.) 

"  No  goblin,  or  sw.irt  i-.uvy  of  tlie  mine, 
Hath  hurtful  power  o'er  true  virginity." 
Miltoii:  Com  »s,  4 17-S. 

Fait  Accompli  (French).  A  scheme 
which  has  been  already  carried  out  with 
success. 

"  The  subjection  of  the  South  is  as  much  n,fiiit 
nreniiiiili  as  the  declaration  of  indepenilence 
itself.''— T/((!  Time!:. 

Faith.  Brfaidcr  of  the  Faith.  {See 
Defender.) 

Ill  flood  faith.  "  Boi/dfde  ;^''  ^'deboniie 
foi  ;  "  with  no  ulterior  motive. 

Faithful,  in  Btmyan's  Fih/rini's  Pro- 
f/ress,  is  seized  at  Vanity  Fair,  burnt  to 
death,  and  taken  to  heaven  in  a  chariot 
of  fire.  A  Puritan  used  to  be  called 
Brother  Faithful.  The  abiding  discijiles 
of  any  cult  are  called  thefaitlifiiL 

Jacob  Faithfal.     The  hero  of  Captain 
Marry  at' s  novel  so  called. 
I    Father    of    the    faithful.      Abraham 
(Eom.  iv.  ;"Gal.  iii.  6-9). 

Fakar  {DhuT).  The  scimitar  of 
Mahomet,  which  fell  to  his  share  when 
the  S23oil  was  divided  after  the  battle  of 
Bekr.  This  tenn  means  "The  Tren- 
chant." 

Fake  (1  syl.).  Fake  awai/.  Cut 
away,  make  off  (Latin,  fac,  do,  make). 
It  also  means  to  do — i.e.  to  cheat  or 
swindle. 

Fa/ce.  A  single  fold  of  a  coiled  cable. 
(Scotch, /ff(^-,  a  fold  ;  Swedish,  I'ika,  to 
involve;  Saxon, fccff an,  to  unite.) 

Fakenham  Ghost.  A  ballad  by 
Robert  Bloomfield,  author  of  27ie  Far- 
mer's Boy.     The  ghost  was  a  donkey. 


Fakir'  {Indian).  A  poor  man,  a 
mendicant,  a  religious  beggar.  The 
Fakirs  are  the  lowest  in  the  priesthood  of 
Yesidis.  They  wear  coarse  black  or 
brown  dresses,  and  a  black  turban  over 
which  a  red  handkerchief  is  tied.  Fakirs 
perform  all  menial  oihces  connected  with 
burials.  They  clean  the  sacred  building, 
trim  and  light  the  lamps,  and  so  on. 

Falcon  and  Falconet.  Pieces  of 
light  artillery,  the  names  of  which  are 
borrowed  from  hawks.     {See  Sakee.) 

Falcon  Gentle  {A).     A  goshawk. 

Falcon  Peregrine  or  Pel'erin.    La 

seeonde  lie/i/ie  est  fa/ico/is  que  horn  apele 
'■'■  pelerins,''''  par  ce  (jue  nus  iie  troitre  son 
in  ;  ains  est  pris  aiitresi  coitie  en  pelerin- 
af/e,  et  est  mult  legiers  a  vnrrir,  et  mull 
cortis,  ct  vaillans,  et  de  hone  maniere. 
{Tresor  de  Brunst  Latin:  Bes  Faucons.) 

"  A  faukoun  vereu'rvn  tlriii  semed  soho 
Of  frenide  [forei^-n]  land." 

Chum-er :  t\iiiterlmni  r.ids  (10,7410. 

Fald-stool.  A  small  desk  at  which 
the  Litany  is  sung  or  said.  The  place 
at  the  south  side  of  the  altar  at  which 
sovereigns  kneel  at  their  coronation. 
(Barbarovis  Latin,  falda,  a  thing  which 
folds  or  shuts  uj).) 

Faldistory.  The  episcopal  seat  in  a 
chancel,  which  used  to  fold  or  lift  up. 

Falernian,  the  second  best  wine  in 
Ital}%  was  so  called  by  the  ancient 
Romans  because  it  was  made  of  grapes 
from  Faleruus.  There  were  three  sorts 
^tho  rough,  the  sweet,  and  the  dry. 

Falkland.  In  Godwin's  novel  called 
Calel)  111  Ilia  ins.  He  commits  murder, 
and  keeps  a  narrative  of  the  transaction 
in  an  iron  chest.  Williams,  a  lad  in  his 
employ,  opens  the  chest,  and  is  caught 
in  the  act  by  Falkland.  The  lad  runs 
away,  but  is  hunted  down.  This  tale, 
dramatised  by  Colnian,  is  entitled  17ie 
Iron  Chest. 

FaMals.  Nick-nacks  ;  ornaments  of 
small  value.  (Greek,  phalara,  metal 
ornaments  for  horses,  etc.) 

"  Our  prod-child  passed  in  review  all  her  gowns, 
flchus,  tags,  bobhijis,  laces,  silk  stockings,  and 
fallals."— 2Viiif/.Tr((!/;  Vanity  Fair,  chap.  vl.  p.  3,s. 

Fall.     In  the  fall.    In  the  autumn,  at 
the  fall  of   the  leaf.      {An    Anwriean 
rerival.) 
"  What  crowds  of  patients  the  town  doctor  kills, 

Or  how,  last  fall,  he  raised  the  weekly  bills." 
Dryden  :  Juveiml. 

To  trij  a  fall.  To  wrestle,  when  each 
tries  to  "  fall "  or  throw  the  other. 

"  I  am  given,  sir,  ....  to  understand  that  your 
younger  brother,  Orlando,  hath  a  disposition  to 
come  in  disguised  against  me  to  try  a  fall."— .4s 
You  Like  It,  i.  1. 


Fall  Away 


Ui 


False 


Fall  Away  (Tu).  To  lose  flesh;  to 
dcgpuerate  ;  to  quit  a  pai-ty,  as  "his 
adherents  fell  away  gradually  [one  by 
one],  or  rapidly." 

Fall  Flat  {7o).  To  lie  prostrate  or 
protumbeut ;  to  fail  to  interest,  as  "the 
last  act  fell  flat." 

Fall  Foul.  2'u  fall  foul  of  one  is  to 
make  an  assault  on  someone.  A  sea 
term.  A  rope  is  said  to  he  foul  when  it 
is  entangled  ;  and  one  ship  falls  foul  of 
another  when  it  runs  against  her  and 
jn-eveiits  her  free  progress.  Hence  to 
run  ujj  against,  to  assault. 

Fall  From  (7>/).  To  violate,  as  "  to 
fall  from  his  word  ;  "  to  tumble  or  slip 
off,  as  "to  fall  from  a  horse;"  to 
abandon  or  go  away  from,  as  ' '  to  fall 
from  grace." 

Fall  In  {To).  To  take  one's  place 
with  others;  to  concur  with,  as  "he 
fell  in  with  my  views" — that  is,  his 
views  or  ideas  fell  into  the  lot  of  my 
views  or  ideas.     i^Sce  Fall  Out.) 

Fall  Off  (To).  To  detach  themselves; 
to  be  thrown  off  [a  horse]  ;  to  leave. 
The  Latin  drcldo. 

Fall  Out  {To).    To  quarrel;  to  hap- 
pen.    (Latin,  acndo.)     {See  Fall  In.) 
"  Three  cliildren  sliding  on  the  ice 
Upon  a  summer's  dav  : 
As  it  fell  out  they  all  fell  in, 
The  rest  they  i-an  away." 

Parson:  Mother  Gonne. 
"See  ye  fall  not  out  by  the  way."— Ciouesis  .nIv. 

Fall  Sick  {To).  To  be  unwell.  A 
Latin  phrase,  "/«  morbum  incidere.''^ 

Fall  Through  {To).  -  To  tumble 
through  [an  insecure  place]  ;  to  fail 
of  being  carried  out  or  accomplished. 

Fall  to  (lu).  To  begin  [eating,  fight- 
ing, etc.]. 

"They  s.it  down  ....  and  withinit  waiting 
....  fell  to  like  commoners  after  grace."— 7v«//(;: 
Arctic  luxiibirations,  vol.  i.  chap.  x.x.K.  p.  419.] 

Fall  Under  ( To).  To  incur,  as,  "  to 
be  under  the  i-eproach  of  carelessuess  ;  " 
to  be  submitted  to,  as,  "  to  fall  under 
consideration,"  a  Latinism,  "  J«  deliber- 
atioucm  cadere.^'' 

Fall  Upon  {To).  To  attack,  as  "to 
fall  upon  the  rear,"  a  Latin  phrase,  "  ulti- 
■iiiis  incidere  ;^^  to  throw  oneself  on,  as, 
"he  fell  on  his  sword,"  '^  maim  sua 
cadere;^^  to  happen  on,  as,  "On  what 
day  will  the  games  fall ';/ " 

Fall  in  With  {To).  To  meet  acci- 
dentally ;  to  come  across.  This  is  a 
Latin  phrase,  in  uliquam  casn  incidere.^^ 


Fall  into  a  Snare  (7o),  or  "  To  fall 
into  an  ambuscade."  To  stumble  acci- 
dentally into  a  snare.  This  is  a  Latin 
phrase,  '■' insidias  iiiciderr.''''  Similarlj', 
to  fall  into  disgrace  is  the  Latin  ";;j 
offenxioncm  cadere.'" 

Fall  of  Man  ( Tlie).  The  degeneracy 
of  llie  human  race  in  consequence  of 
the  "fall"  [or  disobedience]  of  Adam, 
man's  federal  head.  Adam  fell,  or 
ceased  to  stand  his  ground,  under  temp- 
tation. 

Fall  of  the  Drop  {The),  in  thea- 
trical parlance,  means  the  fall  of  the 
drop-curtain  at  the  end  of  the  act  or 
play. 

Fall  Out  of  (To).  To  tumble  or  slip 
from,  as,  "The  weapons  fell  out  of  my 
hands."  This  is  a  Latin  phrase,  '■^  De 
manibxs  meis  anna  ceciderniif.'" 

Fall  Short  of  {To).  To  be  deficient 
of  a  supjjly.  This  is  the  Latin  e.rcldo, 
to  fail.  To  fall  sliort  of  the  mark  is  a 
figure  taken  from  archery,  quoits,  etc., 
where  the  missile  falls  to  the  ground 
before  reaching  the  mark. 

Fall  Together  by  the  Ears  {To). 
To  fight  and  scratch  each  other  ;  to  con- 
tend in  strife.  "  To  fall  together  by  the 
ears  "  is  "  intci-  se  eertdre  ;  "  but  "  to  set 
together  by  the  ears"  is  '■'■  discordiani 
concitare.'''' 

Fall  Upon  One's  Feet  {To).  To 
escape  a  threatened  injury;  to  light 
ujion  one's  feet. 

Falling  Bands.  Neck-bands  which 
fall  on  the  chest,  common  in  the  seven- 
teenth century. 

Falling  Sickness.  Epilepsy,  in  which 
the  patient  falls  suddenly  to  the  ground. 

"  Brutus.— llQ  [i.e.  Ca'sar]  hath  the  falling-sick- 
ness. 

CVt.isiits.-No,  CiBsar  hath  it  not :  but  you,  and  T, 
And  honest  Casca.we  have  the/n/;/»t(7-sickne9s." 
SliakeKpearc :  juliun  Cwsar,  i.  i'. 

Falling  Stars  are  said  by  Mahome- 
tans to  be  firebi-ands  flung  by  good  angels 
against  evil  spirits  when  they  approach 
too  near  the  gates  of  heaven. 

Fallow  Land.  Land  ploughed,  but 
not  sowii :  so  called  from  its  brown  or 
tawny  colour.  {German,  fa/t I,  tawnj-; 
Anglo-Sa.xon,  fahi  or  fealo,  pale-red ; 
hence,  fa  Hot  V  deer,  red  deer.) 

'■  Break  up  the  fallow  land."— Jer.  iv.  3. 

False  {The  Sale  of).  A  method  of 
solving  certain  mathematical  questions 
generally  done  by  equations.  Suppose 
the  question  is  this :  "  What  number  is 
that  whose  half  exceeds  its  third  by  12  ?  " 


False  Ceiling 


44o 


Fanfaronade 


Assume  any  number  you  like  as  the 
Bupirosed  answer— say  96.  Then,  by  the 
question,  96  -^  2  =  86  -^  3  4-  12,  or 
45  =  32  +  12,  i.e.  51,  but  45  does  not 
equal  54,  the  latter  is  16  too  much. 

Well,  now  state  by  rule  of  proportion 
thus,  16  :  12  : :  96  to  the  answer,  which 
is  72,  the  number  required. 

False  Ceiling.  The  space  between 
the  f;arret-ceiling  and  the  roof. 

Fal'staff.  A  fat,  sensual,  boa.stful, 
and  mendacious  knight ;  full  of  wit  and 
humour ;  he  was  the  boon  companion  of 
Henry,  Prince  of  Wales.  ( 1  and  2  Hciirij 
J  J'.,  and  Mcrnj  Wires  of  irijidaor.) 

Falutin  (Ifif//i).  Oratorical  bombast ; 
affected  pomposity ;  "i'/rfes  vein. "    (.S'fe 

HlFALUTEN.) 

Xotie  of  your  hiyh  falutin  airs  icith  me. 
None  of  your  swell  ways  with  me. 
(Dutch,  rcrlooten.) 

Famiriar.  A  cat,  dog,  raven,  or  other 
dumb  creature,  petted  by  a  "witch," 
and  supposed  to  be  her  demon  in  dis- 
guise.    {See  below.) 

Famil'iar  Spirits.  Spirit  slaves. 
From  the  hatiu,  fdii' /tins  (an  attendant). 

'■  Away  witli  liiiii  I  lie  lias  a  familiar  uiuler  bis 
tii]i-jae:'—s:ni!.-ifjic(iic:  '2  Jlcin'U  I'/.,  iv.  7. 

Familiarity.  Too  much  familiarity 
breeds  contempt. 

Latin :  Nimia  familiaritas  contempt- 
um  parit. 

Freiicli  :  La  familiarite  cngendre  le 
mqiris. 

Italian  :  La  famigUarita  fa  disprcgi- 
ameuto. 

"E  trilms  iiiitiiiiis  relms  trespossinia'  nrluntiir  : 
e  vei'itate  (uliuiii  ;  e  fauiiliaritate  cdiiteinptus  ; 
e  felicitate  iuviilia."— /'(udocVj  (tniiislateil). 

Fam'ilists.  Members  of  the  "Family 
of  Love,"  a  fanatical  sect  founded  by 
David  George,  of  Delft,  in  1556.  They 
maintained  that  all  men  are  of  one 
family,  and  should  love  each  other  as 
brothers  and  sisters.  Their  system  is 
called  Familism. 

Family.  A  person  of  family.  One 
of  aristuuratic  birth.     The  Latin  yens. 

"Family  ^^■ill  take  a  iierson  anywhere."— 
^Yal■llct■ :  Little  Joaiiicy  in  the  li'oWd,  chap.  iv. 

Fan.  I  could  brain,  him  with  his 
lad  if  s  fvi  (1  Henry  IV.,  ii.  3) — i.e. 
knock  iiis  brains  out  with  a  fan  handle. 
The  ancient  fans  had  long  handles,  so 
that  ladies  used  their  fans  for  walking- 
sticks,  and  it  was  by  no  means  unusual 
for  very  testy  dames  to  chastise  unrulj' 


children  bybeatmg  them  with  their  fan- 
sticks. 

"  Wer't  not  better 
\'Uir  heail  were  broken  wiili  t lie  band |e  of  a  f.m  ■'" 
Bciiiiiiwnt  ami  Flttcher :  Wit  lU Sennit  U'tifywii.s  v. 

Fan-light  (A),  placed  over  a  door,  is 
a  semiciicular  window  with  radiating 
bars,  hke  the  ribs  of  an  open  fan. 

Fanat'ic.  Those  transported  with 
religious  or  temple  madness.  Among 
the  Romans  there  were  certain  persons 
who  attended  the  temples  and  fell  into 
strange  fits,  in  which  they  pretended 
to  see  sjiectres,  and  uttered  what  were 
tenued  predictioiio,  (Latin,  fu'nuin,  a 
temjile.) 

"That  wild  energy  wbieb  leads 
Tbe  enthusiast  to  fanatic  deeds."' 

Uemaiis:  Tule  of  the  .Secret  Tribunal. 

Fancy.      Love— (.e.   the    passion    of 
the  fantasy  or  imagination.     A  fancy- 
man  is  a  man  (not  your  husband)  whom 
you  fancy  or  select  for  chaperon. 
"  Tell  me  wbere  is  fancy  bred, 
Or  ill  tbe  beart  or  in  tbe  bead."' 
aiiakc^peare :  Merchant  of  Veiiiee,  iii.  2. 

The  fancy.  Pugilists.  So  called  because 
boxing  is  the  chief  of  sports,  and  fancy 
means  sports,  j)ets,  or  fancies.  Hence 
"dog-fanciers,"  "pigeon-fanciers,"  etc. 

Fancy-free.     Not  in  love. 

"  In  maiden  meditation  fancy-free." 
Shakespeare :  Midsummer  yiijht'a  Dream,  ii.  2. 

Fancy  Man  (A).  A  cavalier  servant 
or  cicisbeo  ;  one  selected  by  a  married 
lady  to  escort  her  to  theatres,  etc.,  to 
ride  about  with  her,  and  to  amuse  her. 
The  man  she  "  fancies  "  or  likes. 

Fancy-sick.    Love-sick. 

■'  -Ml  faiie.v-sick  sbe  is,  and  pale  of  cln-er." 
Shiil.tsj;  «,v  ;  Miihuiiimer  yiylifx  Dream,  iii.  2. 

Fane'sii.  A  Scandinavian  tribe  far 
nortli,  whose  ears  were  so  long  that  they 
would  cover  their  whole  body.     (I'li/iy.) 

Fanfar'on.  A  swaggering  bully  ; 
a  cowardly  boaster  who  blows  his  own 
trumpet.  Su-  Walter  Scott  uses  the 
word  for  finery,  especially  for  the  gold 
chains  worn  bj'  military  men,  common 
in  Spain  amongst  the  conquerors  of  the 
New  World.  (Spanish,  fanfarr'on,  a 
bully  ;  French,  fanfare,  a  flourish  of 
trumpets,  or  short  piece  of  military 
music  performed  by  brass  instriunents 
and  kettledi'mns.) 

"' JIarry.  bang  tbee,  witb  tliy  fanfarona  about 
thy  neck: 'said  tbe  falcuuer."— i'coK ;  The  Abbot, 
c.wii. 

Fanfar'onade  (4  syl.).  Swaggering; 
vain     boasting ;     ostentatious    display. 

{See  above.) 

"  The  bishop  copied  this  proceeding  from  tbe 
fanfaronade  of  M.  Bouftlers."— ;S«"t/(. 


Fang 


446 


Farmer  George 


Fang.  A  sheriff's  officer  in  Shake- 
speare's 2  Jfciiri/  IJ\ 

Fangs.  I  fiU  i»to  his  fcatgs.  luto 
his  power,  his  clutches.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
faiiij,  a  grasp.) 

"  To  seize, 

Traitors,  that  vico-like  fang  tbe  hand  ye  lick." 

liailey :  Fcstus  (A  Yilhiije  Feast),  sec.  9. 

Fangled.  A  new-fcuiriled  notion  is 
one  just  started  or  eutertaiued.  (Saxon, 
fc)H/an,  to  begin.) 

Fanny  Fern.  A  nom  de  phone  of 
Mrs.  Sarah  Paj-son  Parton,  sister  of  Mr. 
N.  P.  Willis,  the  American  poet.  (Born 
1811,  died  1872.) 

Fanti'guc  (2  syl.).  A  function;  a 
fussj'  anxiety ;  that  restless,  nervous 
commotion  which  jiersons  have  who  are 
jihantom-struck. 

Fantocci'ni  [fanio-cJie'nt/].  A  dra- 
matic pei-fonnance  by  puppets.  (Italian, 
fantoccio,  ai:)uppet.)' 

Fantom-corn.  The  mere  ghost  of 
corn,  having  been  bewitched.  (French, 
faniumc,  a  ghost.) 

Fantom-fellow.  A  person  who  is 
light-headed,  and  luider  the  ban  of  some 
hobgoblin.     {See  (tbuve.) 

Fantom-flesh.  Flesh  that  hangs 
loose  and  flabby — supposed  to  be  under 
the  evil  influence  of  some  spectre.  {See 
ahorc.) 

Far  and  Away.  "  Xidltis  proxiimis 
ant  svcnndus  ;  "as,  "  far  and  away  the 
best ;  "  some  person  or  thing  bej'ond  all 
comparison  or  rivalry. 

Far  Cry  from.  It  is  a  far  cry  from 
.  .  .  to  .  .  .  ;   as,  it  is  a  far  cry  from 

Moses  to  Moses  Moutefiore,  and  from 
David  to  Disraeli,  but  they  all  were 
Jews,  and  had  certain  features  in 
common.  Sir  Walter  Scott  several 
times  uses  the  phrase  "  It's  a  far  cry  to 
Lochow  [Lochawe]."  It  is  a  far  cry 
from  O'Connell  to  Kossuth. 

Far  fetched.  Not  closely  connected  ; 
a  remote  conceit;  as,  "a  far-fetched 
simile,"  a  "far-fetched  allusion."  Also, 
obtained  from  a  foreign  or  distant 
country,  '•  quod  raritm  est,  ccinini  e^t.'" 

"The  passion  for  lone,  iuvulved  sentences  .  .  . 
and  far-fetched  conceits  .  .  .  passed  awa.v,  and  a 
clearer  and  less  ornate  style  became  popular."— 
Leckij  :  Etifilish  in  the  Eighteenth  Century,  vol.  i. 
chap.  i.  p.  ill. 

Far  Gone.  Deeply  affected :  as,  "  far 
gone  in  love." 

Far  Niente  (3  syl.).  Italian  phrase. 
The  Latin  otixni.  Dolce  far  niente  is  the 
sweet  enjoyment  of  having  nothing  to 
do,  i.e.  of  a  holiday.     {See  Dolce.) 


Farce  (1  syl.).  Stuffing.  Dramatic 
pieces  of  no  solid  worth,  but  stuffed  full 
of  ludicrous  incidents  and  expressions. 
They  bear  the  same  analogy  to  the  regu- 
lar drama  as  force-meat  does  to  a  solid 
joint.  (French,  y«r(r;  'Lidm,farcio,  to 
stuff.) 

Farceur  {Tin).  One  wlio  writes  or 
acts  farces. 

Farcy  or  Farcin  (Latiu,  farcinien,  a 
sausage,  auy  stuffed  meat).  A  disease 
in  horses,  which  consists  of  a  swelling  of 
the  ganglions  and  lymphatic  vessels.  It 
shows  itself  in  little  knots  ;  glanders. 

Fare,  meaning  the  expense  of  a 
journey  or  passage  across  water,  is  the 
Anglo-Saxon  fa(re  or  fai;r,  a  journey ; 
verb,  faran,  to  travel.  {Archaic,  fariat/e, 
the  fare  for  crossing  a  ferry.) 

Fare  Well  {To).  Ton  cannot  fare 
n-(/l  bi(t  ijoii  must  crij  out  roast  meat. 
Don't  blazon  your  good  fortune  on  the 
house-top.  "  Sore.v  siio  pcrit  indicio.''^ 
Terence  has  the  same  idea:  '■^ Egomet 
meo  indicio  miser,  qxasi  sorcx,  hodie 
perii.'"     {Eitniichus,  v.  7,  23.) 

Fari'na.  Fjttsdfm  fairincc.  Other 
rubbish  of  the  same  sort.  Literally, 
"  Other  loaves  of  the  same  batch."  Our 
more  usual  expressions  are,  "  Others  of 
the  same  kidney,"  "others  of  the  same 
feather,"  "  others  tari'ed  with  the  same 
brush." 

Far'ina'ta  or  Farinafa  Legll  TJherti. 
A  nobleman  of  Florence,  chief  of  the 
Ghibelline  faction,  placed  by  Dante,  in 
his  In  far  no,  in  a  red-hot  coffin,  the  lid 
of  which  is  suspended  over  him  till  the 
day  of  judgment.  He  is  rej^reseuted  as 
faithless  and  an  epicure.  (Thirteenth 
century.) 

Farleu  or  Farley.  A  duty  of  Gd. 
paid  to  the  lord  of  the  manor  of  West 
Slapton,  in  Devonshire.  {Baik;/.)  Money 
given  by  a  tenant  instead  of  his  best 
beast  (heriot). 

Farm  means  food  ;  so  called  because 
anciently  the  tenant  was  required  to  jn^o- 
vide  the  landlord  with  food  by  way  of 
rent.     (Anglo-Saxon,  faarme,  food.) 

Ih  fairm  taxes  is  the  French  aftermcr 
(to  let  or  lease),  iromfrrme,  a  letting  for 
the  supply  of  food. 

Farmer  George.  George  III.  ;  so 
called  from  his  farmer-like  manners, 
taste,  dress,  and  amusements.  (1738, 
1760-1820.) 

"  A  Ijcttcr  farmer  iic'^r  Iritslicd  dew  from  lawn." 
By:      ■  Vision  of  Juiiyment. 


Farmers 


447 


Fasting 


Farmers.  A  fai-mer  ought  to  make 
four  reuts  iu  order  to  live  :  one  for  reut, 
one  for  labour,  one  for  stock,  and  oue 
for  himself. 

Farnese  Bull  [Far-iia'-zcl.  A  name 
given  to  a  colossal  group  attributed  to 
ApoUo'nius  and  Tauriscus  of  Trallcs,  iu 
Asia  Minor.  They  belonged  to  the 
Rhodian  school,  and  lived  about  B.C. 
300.  The  group  represents  Dirce  bound 
to  the  horns  of  a  bull  by  Zethus  and 
Amphi'ou,  for  ill-using  their  mother.  It 
was  restored  by  Bian'chi  in  154(),  and 
placed  iu  the  Farnese  2'alace,  in  Italy. 

Farnese  Hercules  [Far-i/a'-zc  Hcr- 
CH-h'c.s] .  A  name  given  to  Glykon's  copy 
of  the  famous  statue  of  Lysippos,  the 
Greek  sculptor  in  the  time  of  Alexander 
the  Great.  It  represents  the  hero  leaning 
on  his  club,  with  one  hand  on  his  back, 
as  if  he  had  just  got  possession  of  the 
apple  of  the  Hesijerides.  Farne'se  is 
the  name  of  a  celebrated  family  in  Italy, 
which  became  extinct  in  1731. 

"  It  struck  me  tliat  an  ironclad  is  to  a  wooden 
vessel  wliat  tbc  Karnese  Hercules  is  totUe  Aiiollo 
Bclvidere.  The  Hercules  is  not  without  a  I'eauty 
of  its  own."— T/ie  Times  (Paris  correspondent). 

Faroese  (3  syl.).  Belonging  to  the 
Faroe  Islands  ;  a  native  of  the  islands. 

Farra'go.  A  farrar/o  of  hohsoisc. 
A  confused  heap  of  nonsense.  Farrago 
is  properly  a  mixture  oi/ar  (meal)  with 
other  ingredients  for  the  use  of  cattle. 

"  Amiuetil  was  derided  .  .  ,  for  having  suffered 
a,  farrago  of  nonsense  to  be  iialnied  off  upon  Uini 
liy  his  Parsi  teachers  as  the  works  of  the  sage 
Zoroaster."— ir/tit)ic(/;  Oriental  Studies  (.A.vesta), 
chap.  vi.  p.  184. 

Farringdon  Ward  (London).  The 
aldeiTuanry,  etc.,  granted  by  John  le 
Feure  to  William  Farendon,  citizen  and 
goldsmith  of  London,  in  consideration 
of  twenty  marks  given  beforehand  as  a 
gersum  to  the  said  John  le  Feure. 
(1279.) 

Far'thing.  A  fourth  part.  Penny 
pieces  used  to  be  divided  into  four 
parts,  thus,  ^  .  One  of  these  quarters 
was  a  ft'or-  thitnc/  or  farthing,  and 
two  a  halfpenny.  (Anglo-Saxon, /co?- 
thiiny.) 

I  chiit  care  for  it  a  brass  farthing. 
James  II.  debased  all  the  coinage,  and 
issued,  amongst  other  worthless  coins, 
brass  i^ence,  halfpence,  and  farthings. 

'.*  The  fcortliuufj  was  the  fourth  part 
of  other  coins.  Thus,  we  read  in  the 
Gratjfrlar''s  Chronicle : — 

"This  yere  the  kynse  made  a  newe  .luyne,  as 
the  uobylle,  half-uobylle,  and  ferdyng-uoliylle.' 

Far'thingalc  (3  syl.).  A  sort  of 
crinoline  petticoat.    The  word  means  a 


"  guard  for  modest j-."  (French,  vertu- 
gardc,  corrupted  into  verdingade,  and 
then  into  farthingale.) 

Faryndon  Inn.  Serjeants'  Inn, 
Chancery  Lane,  tised  to  be  so  called. 

Fascina'tion  means  "  slain  or  over- 
come by  the  eyes."  The  allusion  is  to 
the  ancient  notion  of  bewitching  by  the 
power  of  the  eye.  (Greek,  hankaino,  i.e. 
jjhaSsi  ka'iuo,  to  kill  with  the  eyes.  Sec 
Valpy  :  Eti/mology  of  Greek  Words,  p.  23, 
col.  1 ;  Latin, /«AVi«o.)  (6'eeEviL  Eye.) 
"Xone  of  the  affections  have  been  noted  to 
fascinate  and  bewitch,  but  love  and  envy." — 
llacon. 

Fashion  {fash'-un.']  In  a  fashion  or 
after  afublitoii.  "  In  a  sort  of  a  way  ;  " 
as,  "he  spoke  French  in  a  fashion  "  (i.e. 
very  badly).  ("French  of  Stratford 
atte  Bowe.") 

Fashion  of  Speech  {A).  "  J>/fOM  de 
2>ar!er'''  (q-v.)  ;  "^  liatio  loejuoidi  !^' 

Fast  Girl  or  Young  Lady  (A)  is  one 

who  talks  slang,  assiunes  the  airs  of  a 
knowing  one,  and  has  no  respect  for 
female  delicacy  and  retirement.  She  is 
the  ajie  of  the  fast  j'oung  man. 

Fast  Man  (A)  is  one  who  lives  a 
continual  round  of  "pleasure"  so  fast 
that  he  wears  himself  out. 

Fast  and  Loose  {To play).  To  run 
with  the  hare  and  hold  with  the  hounds  ; 
to  blow  both  hot  and  cold ;  to  say  one 
thing  and  do  another.  The  allusion  is 
to  a  cheating  game  practised  at  fairs. 
A  belt  is  folded,  and  the  jjlayer  is  asked 
to  i>rick  it  with  a  skewer,  so  as  to  pin  it 
fast  to  the  table ;  having  so  done,  the 
adversary  takes  the  two  ends,  and  tooscs 
it  or  draws  it  away,  showing  that  it  has 
not  been  jiierced  at  all. 

"  He  forced  his  neck  into  a  noose, 
To  show  his  play  at  fast  and  loose  : 
And  when  he  chanced  t'escape,  mistook, 
For  art  and  sulitlety,  his  luck." 

Butler:  Uudibras,  in.  2. 

Fasti.  "Working  daj's ;  when,  in 
Rome,  the  law-courts  were  open.  Holy 
daj's  {dies  non),  when  the  law-courts 
were  not  open,  were,  by  the  Romans, 
called  ne-fasti. 

Fasting.  The  most  ingenious  method 
of  fasting  I  know  of  is  that  recorded  in 
the  Mappemonde  Fapistir^ue,  p.  82.  A 
Venetian  saint  had  certain  boxes  made 
like  mass-books,  and  these  book-boxes 
were  fiUed,  some  with  Malmsey  wine, 
and  some  with  the  fleshiest  parts  of 
capons  and  partridges.  These  were 
supposed  to  be  books  of  devotion,  and 
the  saint  lived  long  and  grew  fat  on 
them. 


Fastrade 


448 


Father 


Fastra'de  (2  syl.).  Daughter  of  the 
Saxou  count  Rodolph  and  Luitgarde  the 
Genua  u.  One  of  the  nine  wives  of 
Charlemagne. 

"  Tliusf  .-iiiiir  soft  bells  at  eventide 
Itaii'-.'  ill  tiR'  ears  of  Charleiiiagiie, 
As,  seal  I'll  hy  Fastra'da's  side 
At  Iim'flliciiii,  iu  all  Ills  pride, 
He  heard  tUeir  sound  with  secret  pain. 
Longfellow :  Golden  Legend^  vi. 

Fat.  All  the  fat  is  in  the  fire.  The 
alkision  is  to  tlie  process  of  frying.  If 
the  grease  is  spilt  into  the  fire,  the  coals 
smoke  and  blaze  so  as-  to  spoil  the  food. 
The  proverb  signifies  that  something  has 
been  let  out  inadvertently  which  will 
cause  a  "regular  flare  up." 

The  Fat  .•— 

Alfonzo  II.  of  Portugal.     (1212-1223.) 

Charles  II.  of  France,  Ic  Gros.  (832, 
881-888.) 

Louis  VI.  of  France,  Ic  Gros.  (1078, 
1108-1137.) 

Fat  Men. 

Edward    Bright,    of  Essex,   weighed 
44  stone,  or  (JIG  pounds,  at  death.     H 
was  o  feet  9  inches  high,  .5  feet  round 
the  chest,  and  6  feet  1 1  inches  round  tlie 
paunch.     He  died  17o0,  aged  thirty. 

Daniel  Lambert,  born  at  St.  Marga 
ret's  Leicester,  weighed  739  pounds. 
He  was  3  yards  4  inches  round  the  waist, 
1  yard  1  inch  round  the  leg.  (1770-1809.) 

Fat  as  a  Porpoise.  The  skin  of  the 
porpoise  is  nearly  an  inch  thick,  and 
under  it  is  a  laj-er  of  fat  somewhat 
thicker,  and  yielding  oil  of  the  finest 
qualitj'. 

Fata.  Women  introduced  in  medi- 
fEval  romance  not  milike  witches,  and 
inider  the  sway  of  Demogorgon.  In 
Orliindo  Innanwra'to  we  meet  with  the 
"Fata  Morga'na ;  "  in  Bojardo,  with 
the  "  Fata  Silvanella."  The"  Fates  Nera 
and  Bianca,  the  protectresses  of  Gui- 
do'ne  and  Aquilante  ;  the  "Fata  della 
Fonti,"  from  whom  Manricardo  obtains 
the  arms  of  Hector;  and  "Alci'na," 
sister  of  Morga'na,  who  can-ies  off 
Astolfo.  In  Tasso  we  have  the  three 
daughters  of  Morga'na,  whose  names 
are  Morganetta,  Nivetta,  and  CarviUa  ; 
we  have  also  Dragouti'ua,  Monta'na, 
Argea  (called  the  queen  of  the  Fates), 
jH-otectress  of  Floridante),  Filidea  (sister 
of  Argea),  and  several  others.  In  the 
Ado'ne  of  Mari'ni  we  have  the  Fata 
named  "  Falsire'na." 

Fa'ta  Morga'na.  A  sort  of  mirage 
oi'casioually  seen  iu  the  Straits  of 
Messi'na.  ivy <(/ is  Italian  for  a  "  faiiy," 
and  the  fairy  Morga'na  was  the  sister  of 
Arthur  and  pupil  of  Merlin.     She  lived 


at  the  bottom  of  a  lake,  and  dispensed 
her  treasures  to  whom  she  liked.  She  is 
first  introduced  in  the  Orhtndo  Iii- 
namora'to  as  "Lady  Fortune,"  but  sub- 
sequently assumes  her  witch -like  at- 
tributes. In  Tasso  her  three  daughters 
are  introduced. 

Fatal  Gifts.  Collar  of  Arsinoe,  col- 
lar and  veil  of  Eriph'yle,  gold  of  the 
Nibelungen,  gold  of  Tolosa,  necklace  of 
Cadmos,  Harmonia's  necklace  and  robe, 
opal  of  Alphonso  XII.,  the  Trojan  horse, 
the  shirt  of  Nessus,  etc.  ('SVe  these 
siihjccts. ) 

Fate  =  something  destined  or  suitable, 
is  not  the  Latin  fatiiiii,  but  the  French 
fait  =  share,  one's  own,  that  which  suits 
one;  as  ^^  voila  mon  fait,''^  that  is  the 
man  for  me. 

"  Pinir  nioi,  ma  sieur,  a  dlt  la  cadette,  j'ainie  le 
solide,  je  veiix  un  lioninie  rii-be,  et  le  Kms  don 
Blanco  sera  nion  fait."— Le  fiuge:  Diablclloiteux. 

Fa'tes  (1  syl.).  The  cruel  fates.  The 
Greeks  and  Romans  supposed  there  were 
three  Parcse  or  Fates,  who  arbitrarily 
controlled  the  birth,  events,  and  death 
of  every  man.  They  are  called  cruel 
because  they  pay  no  regard  to  the 
wishes  and  requirements  of  anyone. 

V  Tlio  three  Fates  were  Clotho  (who 
held  the  distaff),  Lachesis  (who  spun 
the  thread  of  life),  and  Atropos  (who 
cut  it  off  when  hfe  was  ended). 

Fa'ther.  A  fi'iar  in  holy  orders.  (See 
Brother.) 

A  father  snclded  bi/  his  daughter.  Eu- 
phra'sia,  the  Grecian  daughter,  so  i^re- 
served  the  life  of  Evan'der,  her  aged 
father. 

Xantip'i^e  so  preserved  the  life  of  her 
father  Cimo'nos  iu  jjrison.  The  guard, 
marvelling  tlie  old  man  held  out  so  long, 
set  a  watch  and  discovered  the  fact. 
Byron  alludes  to  these  stories  in  his 
Childe  Harold, 

"  Tlicre  is  a  dungeon,  in  whose  dim,  drear  light 
What  do  I  gaze  ou  ?  .  .  . 
An  old  man,  and  a  female  young  and  fair, 

Kresli  as  a  nursing  mother,  iu  whose  vein 
The  blood  is  nectar.  .  .  . 
Here  youth  otters  to  old  age  the  food, 

The  milk  of  his  own  gift :— it  is  her  sire 
To  whom  she  renders  hack  thedeht  of  hlood.... 
Drink,  drink  and  live,  old  man  !  heaven's  realm 
holds  no  siicU  tide." 

Byron  :  Childe  Harold,  iv.  st.  1-18, 160. 

Withoat father,  tcithoat  mother,  with- 
out descent,  having  neither  beginning  of 
dags  nor  end  of  life — i.e.  Melchisedec 
(Heb.  vii.  3).  He  was  not  the  son  of  a 
priest,  either  on  his  father's  or  mother's 
side  ;  his  pedigree  could  not  be  traced 
in  the  priestly  line,  like  that  of  the 
ordinary  high  priests,  which  can  be 
traced  to  Aaron  ;    nor   did   he  serve  iu 


Father  Mathew 


449 


Fatima 


courses  like  the  Levites,  who  begin  aud 
end  their  official  duties  at  stated  times. 

*.'  Jesus  was  a  *'  priest  after  the  order 
of  Melchisedec."  Neither  His  reputed 
father,  Joseph,  nor  His  mother,  Mary, 
was  of  the  priestly  line.  As  priest, 
therefore.  He  was  "  without  father, 
without  mother,"  without  genealogy. 
And,  like  Melchisedec,  He  is  a  "  piiest 
for  ever." 

He  fathers  it  on  me.  He  imputes  it  to 
me ;  he  says  it  is  my  bautliug. 

Father  Mathew.    {See  Mathew.) 

Father  Neptune.    The  ocean. 

Father  Norhert.  Pierre  Parisot, 
the  French  missionarj'  (1697-1709). 

Father  Paul.  Pie'tro  Sarj)!,  father 
of  the  order  of  Servites  in  Venice,  who 
clianged  his  Christian  name  when  he 
assumed  the  religious  habit.  (155'2-l(i23.) 

Father  Prout.  Francis  Mahoney, 
a  humorous  writer  in  Fraser''s  Maga- 
zhic  and  the  (ilobe  newspaper.  (1805- 
ISOC.) 

Father  Thames,  or  Old  Father 
lliaines.  The  Thames,  so  far  as  it 
belongs  to  London. 

"  Say,  Father  Tlianies,  for  tlnpu  bast  seen 
Full  iiiiiuy  a  spritrlitly  rare 
D'SiKirtini.'  mi  thv  niar?,'eMt  i-'reen, 
Tlie  iiatlis  iif  iileasure  tracr. ' 
Gray:  Diatant  Prospect  i  if  Eton  Cii^l'fjc. 

The  epithet  is  not  uncommonly  ap- 
plied to  other  great  rivers,  especially 
those  on  which  cities  are  built.  The 
river  is  the  father  of  the  citj-,  or  the 
reason  why  the  site  was  selected  by  the 
first  settlers  there. 

"  O  Til)er,  Fatbev  Tiber, 
To  wiioiii  tlie  Romans  pray." 

ilacaalay  :  Lay  of  Iloratias. 

Father  Thoughtlul.  Nicholas  Cat'- 
iuat,  a  marshal  of  France  ;  so  called  by 
his  soldiers  for  his  c<nitious  and  thought- 
ful policy.     (16:37-1712.) 

Father  of  Waters.  The  Irawaddj', 
in  Burmah,  and  the  Mississippi,  in  North 
America.  The  Nile  is  so  called  bj'  Dr. 
Johnson  in  his  Hasselas.  {See  Father 
Thames.) 

Father  of  his  Country. 

Cicero  was  so  entitled  by  the  Roman 
senate.  They  offered  the  same  title  to 
Ma'rius,  but  he  refused  to  accept  it. 

Several  of  the  Ctesars  were  so  called — 
Julius,  after  quelling  the  insurrection  of 
Spain  ;  Augustus,  etc. 

Cosmo  de'  Med'ici  (1389-1464). 

G.  Washington,  the  defender  and  pa- 
ternal counseller  of  the  American  States. 
(1732-1799.^ 

29 


Andi-ea  Do'rea  (1468-1560).  Inscribed 
on  the  base  of  his  statue  by  his  country- 
men of  Gen'oa. 

Androui'cus  PalEeol'ogus  II.  assumed 

the  title  (1260-1332). 

('SVr  ako  1  Chron.  iv.  14.) 

Father  of  the  People. 

Louis  XII.  of  France  (1462,  1498- 
1515).  Henri  IV.  was  also  termed  "  the 
father  aud  friend  of  the  people"  (1553, 
1589-1610). 

Christian  III.  of  Denmark  (1502, 
1534-1559). 

(iabriel  du  Pineau,  the  French  lawyer 
(1573-1644). 

Fathers  of  the  Church.  The  early 
advocates  of  Christianity,  who  may  be 
thus  classified :  — 

(1)  Five  apostolic  fathers,  who  were 
contemporary  with  the  apostles — viz. 
Clement  of  Home,  Bar'nabas,  Hennas, 
Igna'tius,  and  Pol'j'carp. 

(2)  The  pruii Hire  fathers.  Those  ad- 
vocates of  Christianitj''  who  lived  in  the 
first  three  centuries.  They  consisted  of 
the  five  apostolic  fathers  {q.r.),  together 
with  the  nine  following  : — Justin,  Theo- 
jjh'ilus  of  Antioch,  Irense'us,  Clement 
of  Alexandria,  Cyp'rian  of  Carthage, 
Or'igen,  Gi'egory  Thaumatur'gus,  Dio- 
nysius  of  Alexandria,  and  Tertullian. 

(3)  The  fathers,  or  those  of  the  fourth 
and  fifth  century,  who  were  of  two 
groups,  those  of  the  Greek  and  those  of 
the  Latin  Church.     (See  beloiv.) 

Fathers    of    the    Greek    Church. 

Euse'bius,  Athaua'sius,  Basil  the  Great, 
Gregory  Nazianze'nus,  Gregory  of  Nys- 
sa,  Cyr'il  of  Jerusalem,  Chrys'ostom, 
Epipha'nius,  Cyril  of  Alexandria,  aud 
Ephraim,  deacon  of  Edessa. 

Fathers    of    the    Latin   Church. 

Lactantius,  Hil'ary,  Ambrose  of  Mil'an, 
Jer'ome,  Augustin  of  Hippo,  and  St. 
Bernard. 

2'he  last  of  the  fathers.  St.  Bernard 
(1091-1153).  The  schoolmen  who  fol- 
lowed treated  their  subjects  systematic- 
ally. 

Founder  of  the  fathers  of  Christian 
doeirine.     Ceesar  de  Bus  (1544-1607). 

Fath'om  {Co/tut).  A  villain  in  Smol- 
let's  novel  so  called.  After  robbing  his 
benefactors,  and  fleecing  all  who  trusted 
him,  he  is  at  last  forgiven. 

Fat'ima.  The  last  of  Bluebeard's 
wives,  who  was  saved  from  death  by 
the  tiraelj'  arrival  of  her  brother  with  a 
party  of  friends.  M.ahoraet's  favourite 
daughter  was  called  Fatima. 


Fatted  Calf 


450 


Fear  Fortress 


Fatted  Calf.  To  kill  the  fatted  calf. 
To  welcome  with  the  best  of  everything. 
The  plirase  is  taken  from  the  parable 
in  the  third  gospel  of  the  prodigal  son. 
(Luke  XV.  30.) 

Fat'ua  Mu'lier.  A  law  tenn  for  a 
courtesan.  Fatuus  with  jurisconsults 
means  one  not  in  a  right  mind,  incor- 
rigibly foolish. 

Fault.  At  fault.  Not  on  the  right 
track ;  doubtful  whether  right  or  wrong. 
Hounds  are  at  fault  when  the  scent  is 
broken  because  the  fox  has  jumped  upon 
a  wall,  crossed  a  river,  cut  through  a 
flock  of  sheep,  or  doubled  like  a  hare. 

*.*  In  Geol<j(jy,  the  break  or  displace- 
ment of  a  stratum  of  rock  is  called  a 
fault. 

Fault.  (French,  fante,  Latin,  fallo, 
to  fail.) 

For  fault  of  a  better  {Shakespeare  : 
3Ierri/'JFii'cs,  i.  4).    Haviag  no  better. 

"  I  iuii  the  youiifrfst  of  tbat  name,  for  f;iiilt.  of 
a  ^\•ovse."— Shakespeare  ■•  Romeo  and  Juliet,  ii.  4. 

In  fault.     To  blame. 

"  Is  Antony  or  we  in  fault  fov  tliis  ?" 
Shakespeare:  Antony  and  Cleopatra,  iii.  13. 

7h  a  fault.  In  excess  ;  as,  kind  to  a 
fault.  "Excess  of*  every  good  is  more  or 
less  evil. 

To  fiid  fault.  To  blame  ;  to  express 
disap2)robatiou. 

Faults. 

Xo  one  is  icithout  his  faults,  i.e.  is 
faultless.     "  Vitiis  nemo  sine  nascitur.^'' 

Fau'na  (2  syl.).  The  animals  of  a 
country  at  any  given  geological  period  ; 
so  called  from  the  mythblogical  fauns, 
who  were  the  patrons  of  wild  animals. 

"  Nor  less  tbc  yilaoe  of  ciirions  plant  Ue  knows— 
He  both  his  Flora  and  his  Fauna  shows." 

Crabbe :  Bcnnigli. 

Faust  (1  syl.).  The  grandest  of  all 
Goethe's  di-araas.  Faust  makes  a  com- 
pact with  Mephistoph'eles,  who  on  one 
occasion  provides  him  with  a  cloak,  by 
means  of  which  he  is  wafted  through 
the  air  whithersoever  he  chooses.  "All 
that  is  weird,  mysterious,  and  magical 
groups  round  this  story."  An  English 
dramatic  version  has  been  made  by  Bayle 
Bernard. 

Dr.  Faustus,  a  tragedy  by  Marlow ; 
Faust  aud  Marguerite^  by  Boucicault; 
Faust  e  Margherito,  an  opera  by  Gounod, 
etc. 

Faux-jour  (French).  A  false  or 
contrary  light ;  meaning  that  a  picture 
is  hung  so  that  the  light  falls  on  it  in 
the  opposite  direction  to  what  it  ought. 
The  artist  has  made  his  light  fall  in  one 


direction,  but  it  is  so  hung  that  the  light 
falls  the  other  way. 

Faux  Pas.  A  "  false  step  "  ;  a  breach 
of  manners  or  moral  conduct.    (French.) 

Favo'nius.  The  zephyr  or  west 
wind.  It  means  the  'vim.iS.faiourahlcio 
vegetation. 

Fa'vours.  Ribbons  made  into  a 
bow ;  so  called  from  being  the  favours 
bestowed  by  ladies  on  tlie  successful 
champions  of  tournaments.  {See  True- 
LovK  Knot  ;  Cueey  Favour  ) 

"  Here,  Fluellen  ;  wear  thou  this  favour  for  we, 
ami  slick  it  in  thy  cvi\\"— Shakespeare  :  Ilitinj  V  , 
iv.  7. 

Favourite.  One  to  Avhom  a  lady 
gives  a  "favour"  or  token.  The  horse 
wliich  betting  men  suppose  is  most 
likely  to  come  off  the  winner  of  a  par- 
ticular race. 

Favourites.      False    ciu'ls    on    tlie 
temples  ;  a  curl  of  hair  on  the  temples 
plastered  with  some  cosmetic  ;  wliiskers 
made  to  meet  the  moutli. 
"  Yet  tell  nie,  sire,  don't  you  as  nice  apiiear 

With  your  false  calves,  Ijardash,  and  fa\ 'rites 
here?"  Mrs.  Centlirrc. 

Fay.    {Sec  Fairy.) 

Faye  (1  syl.).  The  icag  to  Fai/e 
(French,  ^^  Faic-la-viiieuse").  A  winding 
or  zigzag  manner,  like  "  Crooked  Lane 
at  Eastcheap."  A  person  who  tries  to 
do  something  indirectly  goes  by  the 
pathway  to  Faye.  Faye  is  a  little 
village  in  France,  built  on  an  eminence 
so  steep  that  there  is  no  getting  to  it 
except  by  a  very  zigzag  path. 

"They  go  in  to  Paradise  ...  as  the  way  is  to 
Vnyc."  —  Rabelais :  Gargantiia  and  Pantagriiel, 
book  i.  17.  . 

Faz'io.  A  native  of  Florence,  who 
first  tried  to  make  his  fortune  Ity  al- 
chemy ;  but  being  present  when  Bartoldo, 
an  old  miser,  died,  he  buried  the  body 
secretly,  and  stole  his  money  -  bags. 
Being  now  rich,  he  became  acquainted 
with  the  Marchioness  Aldabella,  with 
whom  he  passed  his  time  in  licentious 
pleasure.  His  wife  Bianca,  out  of 
jealousy,  accused  him  to  the  duke  of 
being  privj'  to  the  death  of  Bartoldo  ; 
and  Fazio  was  condemned  to  death  for 
murder.  Bianca  now  tried  to  mido  the 
mischief  she  had  done,  but  it  was  too 
late ;  she  went  mad  with  grief,  and 
died  of  a  broken  heart.  {Bean  Milnuoi : 
Fazio.) 

Fear  Fortress.  An  hypothetical 
castle  in  a  forest  near  Saragossa.  It 
represents  that  terrible  obstacle  which 
fear  conjures  up,  but  which  vani.shes 
into  thin  air  as  it  is  approached  by  a 


Fearless 


451 


Feather 


stout  heart  aud  clear  conscience.  The 
allegoiy  forms  the  third  part  of  the 
legend  of  Croqucinitaine. 

"If  a  child  disappeareil,  or  any  cattle  were 
carried  off,  tbe  tremliliu!,'  peasants  said,  'The 
lord  of  Fear-fortreBs  has  taken  them.'  If  a  tire 
l)roke  out  anywhere,  it  was  the  lord  of  Fear- 
fortress  who  must  have  lit  it.  The  origin  of  all 
accidents,  mishaps,  and  di.sasters  was  traced  to 
the  mysterious  owner  of  this  invisible  castle."— 
Croqucmitaine,  ili.  1. 

"  It  sunk  before  my  earnest  face, 
It  vanished  quite  away. 
And  left  no  shadow  on  the  place. 

Between  me  and  the  day. 
Such  castles  rise  to  strike  us  dumb  ; 

But,  weak  in  every  part, 
They  melt  before  the  stronj?  man's  eyes 
And  fly  the  true  of  heart." 
C.  Mackaij  :  The  Giant  {MV.hthj  altercdX 

Fearless  [Sans iiCKrl.  Jean,  Duke  of 
Burgundy  (1371-U19).     (AVr  Batakd.) 

Feast  of  Reason. 

"There    St.    John    [Sin-ju]   mingles    with    the 
friendly  bowl 
The  feast  of  reason  and  the  flow  of  soul." 

Pope :  Imitations  of  Horace,  ii.  1. 

Feasts.  Anniversary  days  of  joy. 
They  are  either  immovable  or  movable. 
T/ic  chief  immovabh'  feasts  are  the  four 
rent-days  —  viz.  the  Annunciation  or 
Lady-Day  (March  25th),  the  Nativity 
of  John  the  Baptist  (June  24th),  Mi- 
chaelmas Day  (September  29th),  and 
Christmas  Day  (December  25th).  The 
Circumcision  (New  Year's  Day,  January 
1st),  Epiphany  (January  Gth),  All 
Saints'  (November  1st),  All  Souls'  (No- 
vember 2nd),  and  the  several  Apostles' 
days. 

The  chief  movable  feasts  depend  upon 
Easter  Sunday.     They  are — 

Palm  Sunday.  The  Simday  next  before 
Easter  Simday. 

Good  Friday.  The  Friday  next  before 
Easter  Sunday. 

Ash  Wednesday.  The  first  day  of 
Lent. 

Sexagesima  Sunday.  Sixty  days  before 
Easter  Sunday. 

Ascension  Day  or  Holy  Thursday. 
Fortieth  day  after  Easter  Sunday. 

Pentecost  or  Whit  -  Sunday.  The 
seventh  Sunday  after  Easter  Sunday. 

Trinity  Sunday.  The  Sunday  next 
after  Pentecost,  etc.  etc. 

Featber.  Meaning  species  or  kind. 
From  the  proverb,  "  Birds  of  a  feather  " 
—  i.e.  of  the  same  plumage,  aud  therefore 
of  the  same  sort. 

'■  I  am  not  of  that  feather  to  shake  off 
My  friend,  when  be  must  need  me." 

Shakespeare:  Timon  o/Athenf,  \.  1. 

Feather.    A  light,  volatile  person. 
"  A  wifs  a  feather,  and  a  chief  a  rod  ; 
An  honest  man's  the  noblest  work  of  God. 
Pope :  Essay  on  Man,  'Jl'-''. 

J.  broken  feather.     {See  Broken  .  .  ) 


An  oiled  feather.  Kindness  of  manner 
aud  speech.  An  oiled  feather  will  do 
more  to  ease  a  stubborn  lock  than  great 
force.  {Sro  Power's  Tract  called  The 
Oiled  Feather.) 
Birds  of  a  feather  flock  together. 
Latin  :  Similes  similibus  gaudent. 
Pares  cum  paribus  facile  congregantur. 
Cicero  says,  "Deos  novimus  ornatu  et 
vestitu." 

French  :  Qui  se  resserable,  s'assemble. 
In  full  feather.     Flush  of  money.     In 
allusion  to  birds  not  on  the  moult. 

In  grand  feather.  Dressed  to  the 
nines. 

1)1  high  feather.  In  exuberant  spirits, 
joyous.  When  birds  are  moulting  they 
mope  about,  but  as  soon  as  they  regain 
their  feathers  their  spirits  revive. 

Tickled  with  a  feather.  Easily  moved 
to  laughter.  "Pleased  with  a  feather, 
tickled  with  a  straw,"  is  more  usual ; 
Hire  de  la  moindrc  bagatelle. 

Also  annoyed  by  trifles,  worried  by 
little  annoyances. 

"  From  day  to  day  some  silly  things 
Upset  you  altogether  ; 
There's  nought  so  soon  convulsion  brings 

As  tickling  with  a  fc;if  liei'. 
'G;iiiist  iiiiuur  evils  Id  liiiii  pray 

Who  Fnituiie  s  f.i  voiir  curries  ; 
For  one  that  l>i'-,'  niisfui-luni-s  .slay. 

Ten  die  of  little  worries." 
Sims:  Ballads  of  DabutonihXMc  Worries). 

Cut  a  feather.  A  ship  going  fast  is 
said  to  cut  a  feather,  in  allusion  to  the 
ripple  which  she  throws  off  from  her 
bows.  Metaphorically,  "  to  cut  a  dash." 
"Jack  could  never  cut  a  feather."— Str  ir.  Scott; 
The  Pirate,  \\\\\'. 

To  show  a  white  feather.  {Sec 
White  .  .  .  .) 

Feather  in  Vour  Cap.  That's  a 
feather  in  i/oiir  cap.  An  honoiu'  to  you. 
"The  allusion  is  to  the  very  general 
custom  iu  Asia  aud  among  the  American 
Indians  of  adding  a  new  feather  to  their 
head-gear  for  every  enemy  slain.  The 
Caufirs  of  Cabul  stick  a  feather  in  their 
turban  for  every  Mussulman  slain  by 
them.  The  Incas  and  Caciques,  the 
Meunitarris  and  Mandaus  (of  America), 
the  Abyssuiiaas  and  Tiu-'comans,  etc  , 
etc.,  follow  the  same  custom.  So  did 
the  ancient  Lycians,  aud  many  others. 
In  Scotland  and  Wales  it  is  still  cus- 
tomary for  the  sportsman  who  kills  the 
first  woodcock  to  pluck  out  a  feather 
and  stick  it  in  his  cap.  In  fact,  the 
custom,  in  one  form  or  another,  seems  to 
be  almost  universal. 

*.*  When  "Chinese"  Gordon  quelled 
the  Taiping  rebellion  he  was  honoured 
by  the  Chinese  Government  with  the 
"  yellow  jacket  and  peacock's  feather." 


Feather 


452 


Feeble 


In  Hungary,  at  one  time,  none  might 
wear  a  feather  but  he  who  had  slaiu  a 
Turk.     {Ldiisdoin/c  MS.  775,  folio  149.) 

Feather  One's  Nest. 

Hi'  has  feathered  /li.s  nest  well.  He  has 
made  lots  of  money  ;  has  married  a  rich 
Avoman.  The  allusion  is  to  birds,  which 
line  their  nests  with  feathers  to  make 
them  soft  and  warm. 

Feather  One's  Oar  ( Tu). 

To  feather  an  oar  is  to  turn  the  blade 
parallel  with  the  surface  of  the  water 
as  the  hands  are  moved  forward  for  a 
fresh  stroke.  (The  Greek  pteron  means 
both  "  an  oar  "  and  "  a  feather ;  "  and 
the  verb  ptcroo,  to  "furnish  with  oars" 
or  "with  feathers.")  The  oar  throws 
oif  the  water  in  a  feathery  spray. 
"He  featberod  bis  oars  witli  siicli  skill  and  dcx- 
tfiity.'  JuHii  \oHiiij  Wutcrimtii. 

Feather  Stone.  A  federal  stone  or 
stone  table  at  which  the  ancient  courts 
baron  were  held  in  the  open  air,  and  at 
which   covenants  were  made.      (Latin, 

frrtas,  a  treaty.) 

Feathers  {The).  A  public-house  sign 
in  coniplinient  to  Henry  VI.,  whose  cog- 
nizance it  was. 

Fine  feathers  make  fine  h'lrds.  (Latin, 
"  Ventis  r'rrttm  faeit,''''  dress  makes  the 
man).  The  French  proverb  is  "  La 
belle  plume  fait  le  bel  oiseau." 

'J'he  I'r'ince  of  Wale.s^  feathers.  The 
tradition  is,  that  the  Black  Prince,  hav- 
ing slain  John  of  Luxemburg,  King  of 
Bohemia,  in  the  Battle  of  Cressy,  as- 
sumed his  crest  and  motto.  The  crest 
consisted  of  three  ostrich  feathers,  and 
the  motto  was  "JfA  dien''^  (I  serve). 
John  of  Ardeu  discovei-ed  a  contempo- 
rary MS.,  in  which  it  is  expressly  said 
that  this  was  the  case ;  but  much  con- 
troversy has  arisen  on  the  question. 
Dr.  Bell  affirms  that  the  crest  is  a  rebus 
of  Queen  Philijipa's  hereditary  title — 
viz.  Countess  of  Ostre-vant  (ostrich- 
feather).  Randall  Holmes  claims  an 
old  British  origin ;  and  the  Rev.  H. 
Longvieville  asserts  that  the  arms  of 
Roderick  Mawe,  prior  to  the  division  of 
Wales  into  princijialities,  was  thus  bla- 
zoned: — "Argent,  three  lions  jiassant 
regardant,  with  their  tails  passing  be- 
tween their  legs  and  curling  over  their 
backs  in  nfeatherij  form." 

Feature  means  the  "make."  Spenser 
speaks  of  God's  "secret  understanding 
of  our  feature  " — i.e.  make  or  structure. 
It  now  means  that  part  which  is  most 
conspicuous  or  important.  Thus  we 
speak  of  the  chief  feature  of  a  painting, 


a  garden,  a  book,  etc.,  etc.     (Norman, 
faiture ;  Latin,  factnra.) 

February.  The  month  of  purifi- 
cation amongst  the  ancient  Romans. 
(Latin,  /('i'r/^w,  to  purify  bj'  .sacrifice.) 

'The  'hid  q/'i'V/;'/7^rtr//(CandlemasDay). 
It  is  said,  if  the  Aveather  is  fine  and 
frosty  at  the  close  of  January  and  be- 
ginning of  February,  we  may  look  for 
more  winter  to  come  than  we  have  seen 
up  to  that  time. 

"  si  sol  splendescat  Mari'a  Pnriflrante, 
Major  erit  glacics  jiust  fcstiiiii  qiiaiii  fuit  ante." 
Sir  T.  Ilr, 111)1, ■ :  Viiliiar  ICrruis. 
"  Tf  raiidlrnias  Day  he  diy  and  fair, 
The  half  d'  wiiilcrs  cunic  and  man-  ; 
]f  CandUMuas  Day  lie  wet.  aiid  foul. 
The  half  (j'  winter  was  gane  at  Yiml." 

Scotch  Proverb. 
"The  hadger  peeps  out  of  his  liole  on  Candle- 
mas Day,  and,  if  he  finds  snow,  walks  aliroad  j  hut 
if  lie  sees  the  sun  shining  be  draws  back  into  bis 
htAe.'— German  Proverb. 

Fe'cit  (Latin,  he  did  it).  A  word  in- 
scribed after  the  name  of  an  artist, 
sculptor,  etc.,  as  David  fevit,  Goujou 
fecit ;  i.e.  David  ixiinted  it,  Goujou 
sculptured  it,  etc. 

Fec'ula  means  sediment.  St.-irch  is 
a  fec'ula,  being  the  sediment  of  flour 
steei^cd  in  wtiter.     (Latin, /fwr.v,  dregs.) 

Fed'eral  States.  In  the  late  Ame- 
rican war  the  Unionists  were  so  called — 
i.e.  those  northern  states  which  combined 
to  resist  the  eleven  southern  or  Con- 
federate states  {'/.v.). 

Fee.  Anglo-Saxon  feoh,  cattle,  goods, 
monej'.  So  in  Latin,  pcciinlrt,  from  peciis, 
cattle.  Capital  is  capita,  heads  [of 
cattle] ,  and  cluittels  is  a  mere  variant. 

Fee-farm-rent  is  where  an  estate  is 
granted,  subject  to  a  rent  in  fee  of  at 
least  one-fourth  its  value.  It  is  rent 
paid  on  lauds  let  to  farm,  and  not  let  in 
recompense  of  service  at  a  greatly  re- 
duced value. 

Fee-penny.  A  fine  for  money  over- 
due. Sir  Thomas  Gresham  often  wrote 
for  money  "in  order  to  save  the  fee- 
penny." 

Fee  Simple.  An  estate  free  from 
condition  or  limitation.  If  restricted 
by  conditions,  the  inheritance  is  called  a 
'Conditional  Fee.' 

Fee-tail  {A).  An  estate  limited  to  a 
person  and  his  lawful  heirs. 

Feeble.  Most  forcible  Feeble .  A  writer 
whose  language  is  very  "loud,"  but 
whose  ideas  are  very  jejime.  Feeble  is 
a  "woman's  tailor,"  brought  to  Sir  John 
Falstaff  as  a  recruit.  He  tells  Sir  John 
"  he  will   do   his  good  will,"   and  the 


Feed  of  Corn 


453 


Fenella 


knight  replies,  "Well  said,  courageous 
Feeble !  Thou  wilt  be  as  valiaut  as 
the  wrathful  dove,  or  most  magnani- 
mous mouse  .  .  .  most  forcible  Feeble." 
(iiliakespcarc  :  2  Hcmij  IV.,  iii.  2.) 

Feed  of  Com.  A  quartern  of  oats, 
the  quantity  given  a  horse  on  a  journey 
when  the  ostler  is  told  to  give  him  a  feed. 

Feet.  IIoiv  arc  your  poor  feet  ?  This 
was  the  popular  street  mot  in  the  year  of 
the  Great  Exlubition  of  London  iu  18G2. 
The  immense  labour  of  walking  over 
the  exhibition  broke  down  all  but  the 
strongest  athletes. 

Fehm-gericht or  Vehmr/eriehtC?,  syl.). 
The  secret  tribunals  of  Westpha'lia,  for 
the  preservation  of  public  peace,  sup- 
pression of  crime,  and  maintenance  of 
the  "Catholic"  religion.  The  judges 
were  envelojied  in  profound  mystery  ; 
they  had  their  secret  spies  through  all 
Geiinany ;  their  judgments  were  cer- 
tain, but  no  one  could  discover  the 
executioner.  These  tribunals  rose  in  the 
twelfth  century,  and  disappeared  in  the 
sixteenth.  Sir  Walter  Scott,  in  Anne 
of  Gicrstein,  has  given  an  account  of 
the  Westjihalian  Fehmgericht.  (Old 
Germ&a,  Jeh nun,  to  condemn;  Gcrivht, 
a  tribunal.) 

"This  Vigilance  Ccmimittee  [of  Denver  city]  is  a 
moilerii  reprnductiou  of  the  famous  Vehniger- 
icht."— T/ie  Times. 

Felician  {Father).  Tlie  priest  and 
schoolmaster  of  Grand  Pre,  wlio  accom- 
panied Evangeline  in  her  wanderings 
to  find  Gabriel,  her  affianced  husband. 
(Lone/fellow  :  EvanyeHn.c.) 

Felix,  a  monk  who  listens  to  the 
singiiig  of  a  milk-white  bii'd  for  a 
thousand  j-ears,  which  seemed  to  him 
"  but  a  siugle  hour,"  so  enchanted  was 
he  by  the  song.  {Longfellow  :  The  Golden 
Legend.) 

Fe'lixmar'te  (4  syl.).  Tlie  hero  of 
a  Spanish  romance  of  chivalry  by  INIel- 
chior  de  Or'teza,  Cahalle'ro  de  I'beda 
(156(3).  The  curate  iu  Bon  Quixote  con- 
demned this  woi'k  to  the  flames. 

Fell  {Dr.).     {See  Doctoe  Fell.) 

Fellow  Commoner.  A  wealthy  or 
married  undergraduate  of  Cambridge, 
who  pays  extra  to  "  common  "  {i.e.  dine) 
at  the  fellows'  table.  In  Oxford,  these 
demi-dons  are  termed  Gentlemen  Com- 
moners. 

Fellow  commoner  or  gentleman  com- 
moner. An  empty  bottle ;  so  called 
because  these  sort  of  students  are,  as 
a  class,  empty-headed. 


Felo  de  Se.  The  act  of  a  suicide 
when  he  commits  self-murder.  Murder 
is  felony,  and  a  man  who  murders  him- 
self commits  this  felony— yi/o  de  se. 

"  A  felo-de-se,  therefore,  is  ho  that  delilierately 
puts  an  end  to  his  own  existence."— WucfcstwMc; 
Lommentarles,  liook  iv.  chap.  xiv.  p.  1«». 

Feme-covert.  A  married  woman. 
This  docs  not  mean  a  woman  corerte  by 
her  husband,  but  a  woman  whose  head 
is  covered,  not  usual  witli  maidens  or 
unmarried  women.  In  Rome  unmarried 
women  wore  on  their  heads  only  a  corolla 
{i.e.  a  wreath  of  flowers).  In  Greece  they 
wore  an  anadema,  or  fillet.  The  Hun- 
garian spinster  is  called  hajadon  (bare- 
headed). Married  women,  as  a  general 
rule,  have  alwaj's  covered  their  head  with 
a  cup,  turban,  or  something  of  the  same 
sort,  the  head  being  covered  as  a  badge  of 
subjection.  Hence  Eebekah  (Gen.  xxiv. 
65),  being  told  that  the  man  she  saw 
was  her  espoused  husband,  took  a  veil 
and  covered  her  head.  Servants  Avear 
caps,  and  private  soldiers  in  theiiresence 
of  their  officers  cover  their  heads  for  the 
same  reason.     {See  Eph.  v.  22,  23.) 

V  Won\eu  do  not,  like  men,  uncover 
their  heads  even  in  saluting,  but  bend 
their  knee,  in  token  of  subjection.  (See 
Salutations.) 

Feme-sole.  A  single  woman.  Feme- 
sole  nwrchant.  A  woman  who  carries  on 
a  trade  on  her  own  account. 

Femme  de  Chambre.  (French.)  A 
chambermaid. 

Fem'ynye  (3  syl.).  A  mediceval  name 
for  the  kingdom  of  the  Am'azons.  Govvcr 
terms  Penthesile'a  "  queen  of  Feminee." 

"He  [Tlicssus]  conquered  al  tlie  reene  of  Feni- 
yiije."  Cliauccr :  Ctiiittrbnry  Tiihs,»>}S. 

Fen  Nightingale.  A  frog,  which 
sings  at  niglit  in  tlio  fens,  as  m'gbtiu- 
gales  sing  in  the  groves.  {See  Akcadiax 
Nightingale.) 

Fence  Month.  The  close  time  of 
deer,  from  fifteen  days  before  Midsum- 
mer to  fifteen  daj-s  after  it.  This  being 
fawning  time,  deer-hunting  is  forbidden. 

Fenchurch  Street  (London).  The 
church  in  the  fens  or  marshy  ground  by 
the  "  Langbourne  "  side. 

Fencible  Regiments.  A  kind  of 
militia  raised  in  175'J,  again  in  1778-9, 
and  again  in  1791,  when  a  force  of 
15,000  was  raised.  The  force  was  dis- 
banded in  1802. 

Fenel'la.  A  pretended  deaf  and  dumb 
sylph -like  attendant  on  the  Countess  of 
Derb}',  in  Scott's  I'et'eril  of  the  I'eah: 


Fenians 


454 


Fern 


Fe'nians.  An  anti -British  associa- 
tion of  disaffected  Irislimen,  called  the 
Feniau  Brotherhood,  after  the  ancient 
Fenians  of  Ireland ;  formed  in  NewYork, 
in  18o7,  to  overthrow  the  domination 
of  England  in  Ireland,  and  make  Ire- 
land a  republic.  The  word  means  a 
JiHiitir — Gaelic,  Jiauna,  from  fcadhdch 
(iH'onounced  fcc-af/h),  a  hnnt.  Before 
the  Germanic  invasion,  a  Celtic  race 
so  called  occupied  not  only  jiarts  of 
Ireland  and  Scotland,  but  also  the 
north  of  Germany  and  the  Scandi- 
navian shores.  Oisin  (Ossian)  refers  to 
them,  and  one  jjassage  is  thus  rendered 
in  The  Autiq/iar// :  "Do  you  compare 
your  ]isalnis  to  the  tales  of  the  bare- 
armed  Fenians  '^  "  Oisin  was  the  grand- 
son of  Fionn,  the  "  fair-haired  righ 
{chief)  of  the  Fenians,"  and  all  the 
high  officers  of  this  volunteer  associa- 
tion were  men  of  rank.  It  apjjears  that 
the  Fenians  of  Ireland  (Eirii/).  Scotland 
{All)ii),  England  {S(jcriii</),  and  Scandi- 
navia, had  a  great  civil  battle  at  Gabhra, 
in  Ireland,  and  extirpated  each  other. 
Oisiu  alone  escaped,  and  he  had  slain 
"twice  fifty  men  Avith  his  own  hand." 
lu  the  great  Fenian  outbreak  of  Ireland 
ill  I860,  etc.,  the  leaders  were  termed 
"  head  centres,"  and  their  subordinates 
"centres."     {hce  Clan-na-Gael.) 

FenneL  Said  to  restore  lost  vision 
and  to  give  courage. 

"  Above  llie  Idwly  iil:iiits  it  towers, 
Tlie  fennel  witli  iis  yellow  tluwei  s, 
Ami  in  iin  earlier  :i'_'e  tli.-ui  o\iis, 
Was  .u'ifted  with  the  woiulrDiis  iiowers 

Lost  vision  to  restore  ; 
It  yave  new  siienLcth  and  fearless  inood, 
And  u'ladiators  tierce  and  rude 
Jlinu'led  it  in  tbeir  daily  f(]od  ; 
Ami  lie  who  battled  and  subdued 
The  wreath  of  fi'nnel  wore." 
Liinifcllnw :  The  Goblet  of  Life,  stanza  fi. 

Fenrir  or  Fenris.  The  wolf  of  sin 
[(.r.  of  Loki^,  meaning  the  goading  of  a 
guilty  conscience.  The  "  wolf  "  was  the 
brother  of  Hel  (q.r.).  When  lie  gajies, 
one  jaw  touches  earth  and  the  other 
heaven.  In  the  lidr/iiaro/c  he  swallows 
the  sun  and  conquers  Odin ;  but  being 
conqiiered  by  Vidar,  he  was  cast  into 
Niflheim,  where  Loki  was  coniincd. 

Fenton.  One  who  seeks  to  mend  his 
fortune  by  marriage.  He  is  the  suitor  of 
Anne  Page.  Her  father  objects  to  him, 
he  says,  because 

"  I  am  too  Bfeat  of  birth  ; 
And  tliat,  my  state  beiiis;  Kall'dwith  my  expense, 
1  seek  to  heal  it  only  by  his  wealth." 

Slidkespeare :  ilcrrij  Wives  of  Windsor,  iii.  ■). 

Ferae  Naturae.  Applied  in  law  to 
animals  living  in  a  wild  state,  as  distin- 
guished from  animals  wliich  are  domes- 
ticated. 


Fer'amorz.  The  young  Cashmerian 
poet,  who  relates  poetical  tales  to  Lalla 
Rookh,  in  her  journey  from  Delhi  to 
Lesser  Buchar'ia.  Lalla  liookh  is  going 
to  be  married  to  the  young  sultan,  but 
falls  in  love  with  the  poet.  ()n  the  wed- 
ding morn  she  is  led  to  her  future  hus- 
band, and  finds  that  the  poet  is  the 
sultan  himself,  who  had  gallantly  taken 
tliis  course  to  win  the  heart  of  his  bride 
and  beguile  her  journey.     (71  Moore.) 

Fer'dinand.  Son  of  the  King  of 
JVaples,  and  suitor  of  Miranda,  daughter 
of  Pros'pero,  the  banished  Duke  of 
Milan.     {Shakespeare :  I'eiiipesf.) 

In  Lore''s  Za-bonr's  Lout,  the  same 
name  is  given  to  the  King  of  Navarre. 

Ferdinan'do.  A  brave  soldier  who 
obtained  a  complete  victory  over  the 
King  of  Morocco  and  Grena'da,  near 
Tari'fa,  in  i;540.  Being  in  love  with 
Leono'ra  de  Guzman,  Alfonso  XI.,  whose 
life  he  had  saved  in  the  battle,  created 
him  Count  of  Zamo'ra  and  Manjuis  of 
Montreal,  and  gave  him  the  hand  of 
Leonora  in  marriage.  No  sooner  was 
this  done,  than  Ferdinaudo  discovered 
that  Leonora  was  the  king's  mistress  ; 
so  he  restored  his  ranks  and  honours  to 
the  king,  i-epudiatcd  his  bride,  and  i-e- 
tired  to  the  monastery  of  St.  James  of 
Compostella.  Leonora  entered  the  fame 
monastery  as  a  novice,  obtained  the 
forgiveness  of  Ferdinando,  and  died, 
{Donizetti'' s  opera  of  La  Favori'ta.) 

Ferdo'si.  A  Persian  poet,  famous 
for  the  copious  flow  of  his  diction.  He 
wrote  in  ver.so  the  Sha/i-Xniiuh,  or 
history  of  the  Persian  kings,  which  took 
thirty  years,  and  contains  120,000  verses. 

Ferguson.  It's  all  rcrij  fine,  Fer- 
f/asoii  ;  bill  you  (loriH  lodge  here.  Capt. 
Ferguson  was  the  companion  of  the 
Marquis  of  Waterford,  when  that  young 
nobleman  made  himself  notorious  for 
his  practical  jokes  in  the  middle  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  In  one  of  their 
sprees  the  two  companions  got  separated, 
and  the  marquis  found  his  way  home  to 
the  house  of  his  uncle,  the  Archbi.sliop 
of  Armagh,  Charles  Street,  St.  James's 
Square.  The  marquis  had  gone  to  bed, 
when  a  thundering  knock  came  at  the 
door.  The  marquis,  susjjecting  who  it 
was  that  knocked,  threw  up  the  window 
and  said,  "  It  is  all  very  fine,  Ferguson, 
but  you  don't  lodge  here;"  and  for 
many  years  the  saying  was  popular.  (See 
A'o^ips  and  Queries,  Jan.  16,  1886,  p.  46.) 

Fern.     {See  Fanny  Feen.) 


Fern  Seed 


45t 


Fetcla 


Fern  Seed,  ire  hare  the  receipt  of 
fern  seed,  ire  trdlk  inrisible  (1  Henrij 
//'.,  act  iv.  4).  The  seed  of  certain 
species  of  fern  is  so  small  as  to  be  in- 
visible to  the  naked  eye,  and  hence  the 
plant  was  believed  to  confer  invisibility 
on  those  who  carried  it  about  their 
person.  It  was  at  one  time  believed 
that  plants  have  the  power  of  imparting 
their  own  speciality  to  their  wearer. 
Thus,  the  herb-dragon  was  said  to  cure 
the  poison  of  serpents  ;  the  yellow  celan- 
dine the  jaundice  ;  wood-sorrel,  which 
has  a  heart-sliaped  leaf,  to  clieer  the 
heart ;  liverwort  to  be  good  for  the 
liver,  and  so  on. 

"  Wliy  (lid  yoii  tliiiik  tlnit  jim  liart  G.VKi'S'  ring, 
Or  the  herb  that,  gives  invisibility  ?" 
JBenmnont  and  Fletclicr:  Fair  Maid  of  the  Tnn,  i.  1. 
"  The  seeds  of  fern,  wliich,  by  prolific  beat 
Cheered  and  unfolded,  form  a  plant  so  great, 
Are  less  a  thousand  times  than  what  the  eye 
Can  unassisted  by  the  tube  descry." 

BlacK-more :  Creation. 

Fernando  Florestan.  A  state 
prisoner  of  Seville,  married  to  Leonoi-a, 
who,  in  man's  disguise,  and  under  the 
name  of  Fide'lio,  became  the  servant  of 
Eocco,  the  jailor.  Pizarro,  governor  of 
the  prison,  conceived  a  hatred  to  Fer- 
nando, and  resolved  to  murder  him. 
Eocco  and  Leonora  were  sent  to  dig  his 
grave,  and  when  Pizarro  entered  the 
dungeon,  Leonora  intercepted  his  pur- 
pose. At  this  juncture  the  minister  of 
State  arrived,  and  ordered  the  prisoner's 
rclea-e.     (Beethoven:  FicMio.) 

Ferney.  The  patriareh  of  Ferncij. 
Voltaire  ;  so  called  because  he  retired  to 
Ferney,  a  small  sequestered  village  near 
Geue'va,  from  which  obscure  retreat  he 
poured  forth  his  invectives  against  the 
French  Government,  the  Church,  nobles, 
nuns,  priests,  and  indeed  all  classes. 

"There  are  in  Paris  five  or  six  statues  of  the 
patriarch  of  Ferney." — Tiie  Times. 

Fero'hers.  Tlie  guardian  angels  of 
Persian  mythology.  They  are  countless 
in  number,  and  their  chief  tasks  are  for 
the  well-being  of  man. 

Fer'racute  Yttharp  iron'].  A  giant  in 
Turpin's  Vhroniele  of  Charlcmacjne.  He 
had  the  strength  of  forty  men,  and  was 
thirty-six  feet  high.  Though  no  lance 
could  pierce  his  hide,  Orlando  slew  him 
by  Divine  interposition,    {fiee  Feeeau.) 

Fer'ragus.  The  giant  of  Portugal, 
who  took  Bellisaut  under  his  care  after 
she  had  been  divorced  by  Alexander, 
Emperor  of  Constantinople.  (  Valentine 
and  Orson.) 

The  great  "  Brazen  Head,"  that  told 
those  who  consulted   it  whatever  they 


required  to  know,  was  kept  in  the  castle 
of  this  giant.  {Valentine  and  Orson.) 
{Sec  Fekeau.) 

Ferra'ra.  An  Andrew  Ferrara.  A 
broadsword  or  claymore  of  the  best 
quality,  bearing  the  name  of  Andrea 
Ferra'ra,  one  of  the  Italian  family  whose 
swords  were  famous  in  the  sixteenth 
and  seventeenth  centuries.  Genuine 
"  Andrea  Fe.raras  "  have  a  crown 
marked  on  tVie  blade. 

V  My  father  had  an  Andrea  Ferrara, 
which  had  been  in  the  family  about  a 
century.  It  had  a  basket-hilt,  and  the 
name  was  distinctly  stamped  on  the 
blade. 

"  Wc'W  put  in  bail,  boy  ;  old  Andrew  Ferrara 
shall  lodge  his  security."— A'cott ;  Waverleii,  chap.  1. 

Ferrau  (in  Orlando  Farioso).  Fer- 
raute,  Fer'racute,  or  Fer'ragus,  a  Sara- 
cen, son  of  Lanfu'sa.  He  dropped  his 
helmet  in  the  river,  and  vowed  he  would 
never  wear  another  till  lie  had  won  that 
worn  by  Orlando.  Orlando  slew  him 
with  a  wound  in  the  navel,  his  only 
vulnerable  part. 

Ferrex  and  Porrex.  Two  sons 
of  Gorboduc,  a  mythical  British  king. 
Porrex  drove  his  brother  from  Britain, 
and  when  Ferrex  returned  with  an  army 
he  was  slain,  but  Porrex  was  shortly 
after  put  to  death  by  liis  mother.  One 
of  the  first,  if  not  the  very  first,  historical 
l^lay  in  the  English  language  was  Ferrex 
and  Forre.r,  by  Thomas  Norton  and 
Thomas  Sackville. 

Ferumbras.     {Sec  Fieeabbas.) 

Fes'cennine  Verses.  Lampoons  ; 
so  called  from  Fescennia  in  Tuscany, 
where  performers  at  merry-makings 
used  to  extemporise  scurrilous  jests  of 
a  personal  nature  to  amuse  the  audience. 

Fess  (L^im,  fascia,  a  band  or  covering 
for  the  thighs) .  In  heraldry,  the  fess  is 
a  band  drawn  horizontally 
across  the  shield,  of  which  it 
occupies  one -third.  It  re- 
presents the  band  which  was 
worn  by  knights  low  down 
across  the  hips. 

Fest.  A  pledge.  Festing-man,  a  surety 
to  another.  Festing-pointj,  a  penny 
given  in  earnest  to  secure  a  bargain, 
(Anglo-Saxon,  festine/,  an  act  of  con- 
fidence, an  entrusting.) 

Fetch.  A  wraith — the  disembodied 
ghost  of  a  living  person.  {See  Fetiche.) 
"Fetches  .  .  .  uiost  couiuionly  appear  to  distant 
friends  and  relations,  at  the  very  instant  pre- 
ceding the  death  of  those  they  represent."— 
Brand:  Popular  Antiquities  (Death  Omens). 


Fetches 


456 


Piacre 


Fetches.  Excuses,  tricks,  artifices. 
(Saxon.) 

"  Deny  to  speak  with  me  ?    They  are  sick  ?    they 

are  weary  ? 
TUey  have  travellcil  all  the  night  ?  Mere  fetches." 
Shakei^peare  :  King  Lear,  ii.  4. 

Fet'iche  or  Fet'ish.  The  African  idol, 
the  same  as  the  American  Man'itou.  The 
worship  of  this  idol  is  called  Fet'ichism 
or  Fet'ishism.  (Portuguese,  fctisso,  ma- 
gician, fairy,  oracle.) 

"."  Almost  any  thing  will  serve  for  a  fetiche :  a  fly, 
a  bird,  a  lion,  a  fish,  a  serpent,  a  stone,  a  tree 
struck  by  lightning,  a  hit  of  metal,  a  shell;  bi\t  the 
most  potent  of  all  fetiches  is  the  rock  Tabra. 

The  fetiche  or  fetish  of  the  bottle.  The 
imp  drunkenness,  or  drunkenness  itself. 

Fetter  Lane  is  T^roba]:>\j  fenteyer-lane. 
A  feuterer  is  a  keeper  of  dogs,  and  the 
lane  has  always  been  famous  for  dog- 
fanciers.  Howel,  with  less  probabilitj', 
says  it  is  Fewtor  Lane,  i.e.  the  lane  of 
fcictors  or  worthless  fellows  who  were 
for  ever  loitering  about  the  lane  on 
their  way  to  the  gardens.  Faitour  is  an 
archaic  word  for  a  worthless  fellow,  a 
lazy  vagabond,  from  the  Nornian-Freuch. 

Fettle,  as  a  verb,  means  to  repair  ; 
to  fiuioothe ;  as  an  adjective,  it  means 
well-knit,  all  right  and  tight.  It  is 
connected  with  our  word  ye«^,  the  French 
faire,  the  'iji\.\m.  fueerc. 

Fettled  ale,  in  Lancashire,  means  ale 
wai-med  and  spiced. 

Feu  de  Joie  (French).  A  running 
fire  of  gims  on  an  occasion  of  rejoicing. 

Feud,  meaning  "hatred,"  is  the  Saxon 
fcelitli.  (hatred);  but  feud,  a  "fief,"  is 
the  Teutonic /(r-&(/A  (trust-land).  {See 
beloiv.) 

Feudal  or  Feorhil  (2  syl.).  In  Gothic 
odJi-  means  "pro2iorty,"  hence  odh-all 
(entire  property)  ;  Flemish,  tidal.  By 
transposition  we  get  all-ohd,  whence 
our  (dlodium  (absolute  property  claimed 
by  the  holders  of  fiefs)  ;  and  by  com- 
bining the  words _/rt-  and  odh  we  get/(r- 
odh,  feodh,  or  feod  (jiroperty  given  by 
way  of  fee  for  services  conferred). 
{Pontoppidan.) 

Feudal  System  {Tlie).  A  system 
founded  on  tlie  tenure  of  feuds  or  fiefs, 
given  in  compensation  for  military  ser- 
vice to  the  lord  of  the  tenants. 

Feuillants.  A  reformed  Cistercian 
order  instituted  by  Jean  de  la  Barriere 
in  1-586.  So  called  from  the  convent  of 
Feuillans,  in  Languedoc,  where  they 
were  established  in  1577. 

The  club  of  the  Feuillants,  in  the  French 


Eevolution,  composed  of  moderate  Jaco- 
bins. So  called  because  the  convent  of 
the  Feuillants,  near  the  Tuileries,  was 
their  original  club-room  (1791-2). 

Feuilleton  [fcu-ye-to)!'].  A  fly-sheet. 
Applied  to  the  bottom  part  of  French 
newspapers,  generally  devoted  to  a  tale 
or  some  other  light  literature. 

"  The  daily  [French]  newspapers  all  had  feuille- 
toiis  with  ccmiiiuied  stories  in  them."— i/die: 
Teii-times  One,  chap.  viii.  p.  I'.'o. 

Fever-lurdan  or  Fever-lurgan.  A 

fit  of  idleness.  Lurdea  means  a  block- 
head. (French,  lourd,  heavy,  dull,  thick- 
headed  ;  lourdatid,  a  blockhead.) 

Fever-lurk.  A  corruption  of  Ferer- 
lar</,  as  "Fever-lurgan"  is  of  Ferer- 
lurdaii.     The  disease  of  laziness. 

"  Fever-lnrk, 
Neither  play  nor  work." 

Fey.  Predestined  to  early  death. 
When  a  person  suddenly  changes  his 
wonted  manner  of  life,  as  when  a  miser 
becomes  liberal,  or  a  churl  good-hu- 
moured, he  is  said  in  Scotch  to  hefei/, 
and  near  the  point  of  death. 

"She  must  be  fey  (said  Trlptolemu8>,  and  in 
that  case  has  not  long  to  live."— 5ir  IK.  ,Scott :  The 
Pirate,  chap.  v. 

Fe'zon.  Daughter  of  Savary,  Duke 
of  Aquitaine,  demanded  in  marriage  by 
a  pagan,  called  the  Green  Knii/ht ;  but 
Orson,  having  overthrown  the  pagan, 
was  accepted  by  the  lady  instead. 
{Valentine  and  Orson.) 

Fi  or  Fie !  An  exclamation  indicating 
that  what  is  reproved  is  dirty  or  indecent. 
The  dung  of  many  animals,  as  the  boar, 
wolf,  fox,  marten,  and  badger,  is  called 
faiits.  and  the  "  orificium  ana'le"  is 
called  tiji,  a  ivord  still  used  in  Lincoln- 
shire. (Anglo-Norman, y^//,  to  clean  out ; 
Saxon,  afiflan,  to  foul ;  our  d(Jile  or  fie, 
to  make  foul ;  fllh,  etc.) 

The  old  words, /I'V-ro/'M  (dross  corn), 
f-lands  (unenclosed  lands), fi-niashin(/s 
(the  dung  of  any  wild  beast),  etc.,  are 
compounds  of  the  same  word. 

"I  had  another  process  against  the  dung- 
farmer,  Master  Fi&."—Iiabelais :  Pantagruel,  book 
ii.  17. 

Fi.  Fa.  A  contraction  of  the  two 
Latin  words,  fi'eri  facias  (cause  it  to  be 
done).  A  judicial  writ  for  one  who  has 
recovered  damages  in  the  Queen's  courts, 
being  a  command  to  the  sheriff  to  see 
the  judgment  of  the  court  duly  can-ied 
out. 

Fiacre.  A  French  cab  or  hackney 
coach.  So  called  from  the  Hotel  de  St. 
Fiacre,  Palis,  where  the  first  station  of 


Plan 


457 


Fiddler's  Money 


these   coaches   was    established    by  M. 
Sauvage,  about  1650. 

'.*  Accordiug  to  Alban  Butler,  Fiacre 
■was  the  son  of  au  Irish  kiug,  bom  iu 
GOO,  to  whose  tomb  pilgrimages  were 
made  in  the  mouth  of  August.  His  day 
is  August  30th.  {Lircs  of  the  SaintH, 
vol.  ii.  \}.  379.) 

Fian  {John),  a  schoolmaster  at  Salt- 
pans, near  Ediubui'gh,  tortured  to  death 
and  then  burnt  at  the  stake  ou  the  Castle 
Hill  of  Edinburgh,  Saturday,  January, 
1591,  because  he  refused  to  acknowledge 
that  he  liad  raised  a  stoiTn  at  sea,  to 
wreck  James  I.  on  his  voyage  to  Den- 
mark to  visit  his  futui'e  queen.  First, 
his  head  was  crushed  in  upon  his  brain 
by  means  of  a  rope  twisted  tighter  and 
tighter;  then  his  two  legs  were  jammed 
to  a  jolly  iu  the  wooden  boots-;  then  his 
nails  were  ^Dulled  out  and  pins  inserted 
iu  the  raw  hnger  tips ;  as  he  still  re- 
mained silent,  he  was  strangled,  and  his 
dead  body  burnt  to  ashes. 

Fiars.  StriJcing  the  fiars.  Taking 
the  average  pi'ice  of  com.  Fiars  is  a 
Gothic  word,  still  current  iu  Ireland. 
(Scotch  law.) 

Fias'co.  A  faihu-c,  a  mull.  In  Italy 
they  cry  Ola,  o/fi,Ji(isco  !  to  an  unpopular 
singer.  This  word,  common  in  France 
and  Gemiany,  is  emploj-ed  as  the  opposite 
of  furore. 

V  The  history  of  the  word  is  as  fol- 
lows : — Iu  making  Venetian  glass,  if  the 
slightest  flaw  is  detected,  the  glass- 
])lower  turns  the  article  into  a  fiasco — 
that  is,  a  common  flask. 

A  pentleiiian  from  North  America  (G.  Fox, 
'•  the  Modem  BrttUyliis")  furnishes  me  with  the 
followini^  anecdote:  "Tliere  was  once  a  clever 
hirleqiiin  of  Florence  named  Dominico  Bianco- 
lelli,  noted  for  his  comic  harangues.  He  was 
wont  to  imiirovise  upon  wliatever  article  he  held 
in  his  hand.  One  nislit  he  apjieared  holdint;  a 
llask  (flascn) ;  but  failing  to  extract  an.v  humour 
whatsoever  from  his  subject,  he  s.aiil,  '  It  is  thy 
fault,  fiasco,'  and  dashed  the  Mask  on  the  ground. 
After  that  a  failure  was  connnonly  called  in 
Florence  a  '  fiasco.'  "  To  me  it  appears  incredible 
that  a  clever  improvisator  could  draw  no  matter 
from  an  empty  bottle,  apparently  a  subject  rife 
with  matter. 

Fiat.  I gire  iiuj  fiat  to  that  proposal. 
I  consent  to  it.  A  fiat  in  law  is  an 
order  of  the  court  directing  that  some- 
thing stated  be  done.  (Latin,  fiat,  let 
it  be  done.) 

Fib.  Au  attendant  on  Queen  Mab  in 
Drayton's  Xiimphidia.  Fib,  meaning  a 
falsehood,  is  the  Zjntinfabala,  a  fable. 

Fi'co.    ('SW'  Fig.) 

''  Fico  for  the  phra.se." 
SIiake.ipeiii-e :  Mrrrii  Wires  nf  Windsor,  i.  X 
"I  see  contempt  marching  forth,  giving  me 
the  flco  with  his  thombe  iu  his  nmuth."—  Wit's 
Miserie  tl5M6;, 


Fiddle  (Latin,  fidis  or  fides),  lie  was 
first  fiddle.  Chief  mau,  the  most  dis- 
tinguished of  the  company. 

To  plaij  second  fiddle.  To  take  a  sub- 
ordinate part.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
leader  of  concerts,  who  leads  with  a 
fiddle. 

'The  Scotch  fiddle  or  Caledonian  Cre- 
mona. The  itch.  As  fiddlers  scratch 
with  a  bow  the  strings  of  a  fiddle,  so 
persons  suffering  from  skin- irritation 
keejj  scratching  the  part  irritated. 

Fiddle  About  {To).    To  fiddle  about 

a  thing  means  to  "play  "  business.     To 

fiddle  with  one's  fingers  is  to  move  them 

about  as  a  tiddler  moves  his  fingers  up 

and  down  the  fiddle-strings. 

"  Mere  trifling,  or  unprofitable  fiddling  alumt 
nothing.''— 2?<o/vj(r;  Sirinons,  vol.  1.  sermon  7. 

Fiddle  -de  -  dee  !  An  exclamation 
signifying  what  j'ou  say  is  nonsense  or 
moonshine.  Fiddle-de-dee  is  meant  to 
express  the  sound  of  a  fiddle-string 
vocalised.  Hence  "sound  signifj-ing 
notliing." 

Fiddle-faddle.  It  is  all  fiddle-fuddle. 
Rubbishy  nonsense  ;  talk  not  worth 
attention.  A  ricochet  word,  of  which 
we  have  a  vast  number,  as  '"  flim-flam," 
"helter-skelter,"  "  wishy-washj',"  etc. 
To  fiddle  is  to  waste  time  in  playing  on 
the  fiddle,  and  hence  fiddle  means  a 
trifle,  aud  fiddle-faddle  is  silly  trifle  or 
silly  nonsense. 

"Pitiful  fool  that  I  was  to  stand  fiddle-faddling 
in  that  way." 

Clouyli :  .itnours  de  Voxjage,  canto  iv.  stanza  3. 

Fiddleback.  The  name  of  Oliver 
Goldsmith's  poor  unfortunate  pony,  on 
which  he  made  his  country  excursions. 

Fiddler.  Drunk  as  a  fiddler.  Fidd- 
lers at  wakes  and  fairs  were  allowed 
meat  aud  drink  to  their  heart's  content, 
and  seldom  left  a  merry-making  sober. 

Oliver's  Fiddler.  Sir  Roger  L'Es- 
trange  (161G-1704).  So  called  because 
he,  at  one  time,  was  playing  a  fiddle  or 
viole  with  others  in  the  house  of  John 
Hingston  when  Cromwell  was  one  of 
the  guests. 

V  Fiddler  is  a  slang  word  for  sixpence. 

Fiddler's  Fare  or  Fiddler's  Pay. 

Meat,  drink,  and  money. 

Fiddler's  Green.  The  land  of  the 
leal  or  "  Dixie  Land "  of  sailors  ; 
where  there  is  perpetual  mirth,  a  fiddle 
that  never  ceases  to  untiring  dancers, 
plenty  of  grog,  and  unlimited  tobacco. 

Fiddler's  Money.  A  silver  penny. 
The  fee  given  to  a  fiddler  at  a  wake  by 
each  dancer. 


Fiddler's  News 


158 


Field 


Fiddler's  News.    Stale  news  carried 

about  by  wanderiug  fiddlers. 

Fiddlestick.  In  the  Great  Gennau 
epic  called  The  N'diehiiujcn-L'ied,  this 
word  is  used  six  or  eight  times  for  a 
broadsword. 

"  His  fldiUestick  lio  graspetl,  'twas  massy,  bmad, 
mill  lont;, 
As  sliai'p  as  any  ivvzor."  Stanza  1  ,S41. 

"  Mv  fldillestick's  no  foatlicr  ;  on  whom  I  let  it 
"  f:ill, 
If  lie  lias  friends  tliat  Invo  liim,  'twill  spt  tliem 
weeping  all."  Stanza  1,h.so. 

"  His  Mddlestick,  sliarii-cuttins,  can  hardest  steel 
divide, 
And  at  a  stroke  can  shiver  the  morion's  benniy 
pride."  Stanza  L',ii7s, 

Fiddlesticks !  An  exclamation  sig- 
nifying what  you  say  is  not  worth  atten- 
tion. To  fiddle  about  is  to  waste  time, 
fiddling.  A  fiddlestick  is  the  instrument 
used  iu  fiddling,  hence  the  fiddlestick  is 
even  less  than  the  fiddle. 

Fide'le  (■'J  sj'l.).  The  name  assumed 
by  Imogen  in  Shakespeare's  i'ljmlivVine. 
Colhus  has  a  beautiful  elegy  on  Fidele. 

Fide'lio.  Beethoven's  only  oiicra. 
(^Hee  Leonora.) 

Fides.    The  goddess  of  Faith,  etc. 

Fides  (2  syl.).  Mother  of  John  of 
Leyden.  Not  knowing  that  her  son  was 
the  "  prophet "  and  ruler  of  Westphalia, 
but  thinking  that  tlie  prophet  had  caused 
his  death,  she  went  to  Munster  to  curse 
the  new-crowned  monarch.  The  moment 
she  saw  him  she  recognised  him,  but 
the  "prophet-king,"  surrounded  by  his 
courtiers,  pretended  not  to  know  her. 
Fides,  to  save  her  son  annoyance,  de- 
clared she  had  made  a  mistake,  and  was 
confined  in  the  dungeon  of  the  palace  at 
Munster,  where  John  visited  her  and 
was  forgiven.  When  her  son  set  fire 
to  his  ijalace,  Fides  frushed  into  the 
flames  and  perished  with  him.  (Meyer- 
hcer''s  opera  of  Lc  Frophetc.) 

Fides  Carbona'rii.  Blind  faith, 
faith  of  a  child.  A  carbona'ro  being 
asked  what  he  believed,  replied,  "What 
the  Church  believes;  "  and,  being  asked 
again  what  the  Church  believes,  made 
answer,  "What  I  believe."  {See  Car- 
bonari.) {Roiix:  Diedoiuutire  Comique.) 

Field.     (Anglo  -  Saxon,  /c  W. ) 

In  agriciiltiiral  parlance,  a  field  is  a 
portion  of  land  belonging  to  a  farm. 

In  huntsman'' s  language,  it  means  all 
the  riders. 

In  heraldry^  it  means  the  entire  sui'face 
of  the  shield. 

In  mlUtary  language,  it  means  a 
battle;    the    place    where    a   battfle    is 


fought,  or  is  about  to  be  fought ;  a 
campaign. 

In  spor/iiiiie)i\i  language  it  means  all 
tlie  horses  of  any  one  race. 

Ayainst  the  JiehL  In  horse-racing,  to 
bet  against  the  field  means  to  back  a 
particular  horse  against  all  the  rest 
entered  for  the  race. 

1)1  the  field.  A  competitor  for  a  prize. 
A  term  in  horse-races,  as,  so-and-so  was 
in  the  field.  Also  in  war,  as,  tlie  Fi'cnch 
were  in  the  field  already. 

Master  of  the  field.  In  military  par- 
lance, means  the  conqueror  in  a  battle. 

To  keep  hack  the  field,  is  to  keep  back 
the  riders. 

To  take  the  field.  To  move  the  army 
preparatory  to  battle. 

To  icii)  the  field.     To  win  the  battle. 

Field-day.  Day  of  business.  Thus, 
a  clergyman  jocosely  calls  a  "kept  fes- 
tival "  his  field-day.  A  military  term, 
meaning  a  day  when  a  regiment  is  taken 
to  the  fields  for  practice. 

Field  Marshal.  A  general  officer  of 
the  liighest  rank,  who  commands  an 
amiy,  or,  at  any  rate,  more  than  one 
corps. 

Field  Officer.  Any  officer  between 
captain  and  a  general  officer.  A  major 
or  a  lieutenant-colonel  may  be  a  field 
officer,  being  qualified  to  command  whole 
battalions,  or  a  "  field." 

Field  Pieces.  Small  cannon  carried 
into  the  field  with  an  army. 

Field  Works.  Works  thrown  up  by 
an  army  in  besieging  or  defending  a 
fortress,  or  iu  strengthening  its  position. 

"Earth-forts,  and  especially  field  works,  will 
hereafter  play  an  important  part  in  wars."— 11'.  T. 
Slicrman  :  Memoirs,  vol.  ii.  chap.  xxiv.  p.  39«. 

Field  of  Blood.  Aceldama,  the 
piece  of  land  bought  by  the  chief 
priests  with  the  money  which  Judas 
threw  down  in  the  temple ;  so  called 
because  it  was  bought  with  blood- 
money.     (Matt,  xxvii.  5;  Acts  i.  19.) 

V  The  battle-field  of  Cannae  (b.c.  216) 
is  so  called  because  it  was  es25ecially 
sanguinarj% 

Field  of  Ice.  A  large  body  of  float- 
ing ice. 

Field  of  Vision  or  Field  of  View. 

The  space  in  a  telescope,  microscope, 
stereoscope,  etc.,  within  which  the  ob- 
ject is  visible.  If  the  object  is  not 
distinctly  visible,  it  must  be  broxyht  into 
the  f  eld  by  adjustment. 

Field  of  the  Cloth  of  Gold.    The 

plain,  near  Guisnes,  where  Henry  VIII. 


Field 


459        Fifth-Monarchy  Men 


had  his  interview  with  Francois  I.  in 
1  ')20 ;  so  called  from  the  splendour  and 
niaguihceuce  displayed  there  on  the 
occasion. 

Field    of    the    Forty    Footsteps. 

At  the  back  of  tlic  Britisli  Museum, 
once  called  Southampton  Fields.  Tlie 
tradition  is  tliat  two  brothers,  in  tlie 
Duke  of  Monnioutli's  rebellion,  took 
different  sides  and  engaged  each  other 
in  fight.  Both  were  killed,  and  forty 
impressions  of  their  feet  remained  on 
the  field  for  many  years,  where  no  grass 
would  grow.  The  encounter  took  place 
at  the  extreme  north-east  of  Upper 
Montague  'Street.  The  Misses  Porter 
wrote  a  novel  on  the  subject,  and  the 
Messrs.  Mayhew  a  melodrama. 

Fielding.  T/te  Fielding  of  the  drama. 
George  Farquhar,  author  of  the  Beaux'' 
Stratagem,  etc.    (1678-1707.) 

'  Fierabras  {Sir),  of  Alexandria,  son 
of  Balan,  Kiug  of  Spain.  The  greatest 
giant  that  ever  walked  the  earth.  For 
height  of  stature,  breadth  of  shoulder, 
and  hardness  of  muscle  he  never  had  an 
equal.  He  possessed  all  Babylon,  even 
to  the  Red  Sea  ;  was  seigneur  of  Russia, 
Lord  of  Cologne,  master  of  Jerusalem, 
and  even  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre.  He 
cariied  away  the  crown  of  thorns,  and 
the  balsam  which  embalmed  the  bod3'  of 
Our  Lord,  one  drop  of  which  would  cure 
any  sickness,  or  heal  any  wound  in  a 
moment.  One  of  his  chief  exploits  was 
to  slay  the  "  fearful  huge  giant  that 
guarded  the  bridge  Mantible,"  famous 
for  its  thirty  arches  of  black  marble. 
His  pride  was  laid  low  by  Olivier,  one 
of  Charlemagne's  paladins.  The  giant 
then  became  a  child  of  God,  and  ended 
his  days  in  the  odour  of  sanctity,  "  meek 
as  a  lamb  and  humble  as  a  chidden 
slave."  Sir  Fierabras,  or  Ferumbras, 
figures  iu  several  medieval  romances, 
and  is  an  allegory  of  Sin  overcome  by 
tlie  Cross.     {See  Balan.) 

Fifteen  decisive  Battles  {TJte),  ac- 
cording to  Sir  E.  S.  Creasy,  were : 

1.  The  battle  of  Marathon  (Sept., 
400  B.C.),  when  Miltiades,  with  10,000 
Greeks,  defeated  100,000  Persians  under 
Datis  and  Artaphernes. 

2.  The  naval  battle  at  Syeacuse  (Sep., 
413  B.C.),  when  the  Athenians  under 
Nicias  and  Demosthenes  were  defeated 
with  a  loss  of  40,000  killed  and  wounded, 
and  their  entire  fleet. 

3.  The  battle  of  Arbe'la  (Oct., 
331  B.C.),   when    Alexander  the  Great 


overthrew  Darius  Codomanus  for  the 
third  time. 

4.  The  battle  of  Metatjeus  (207  B.C.), 
when  the  consuls  Livius  and  Nero  cut  to 
pieces  Hasdrubal's  anny,  sent  to  rein- 
force Hannibal. 

o.  In  A.D.  9  AiTninius  and  the  Gauls 
utterly  overthrew  the  Romans  under 
Varus,  and  thus  established  the  inde- 
pendence of  Gaul. 

G.  The  battle  of  Chalons  (a.d.  451), 
when  Aetius  and  Theodoric  utterly  de- 
feated Attila,  and  saved  EuroiJC  from 
devastation. 

7.  The  battle  of  TouKS  (Oct.,  732  a.d.), 
when  Charles  Martel  overthrew  the  Sa- 
racens under  Abderahmen,  and  thus 
broke  the  Moslem  voke  from  Europe. 

8.  The  battle  of  Hasti>'GS  (Oct.,  1066), 
when  William  of  Xonnandy  slew  Harold 
II.,  and  obtained  the  crown  of  England. 

9.  The  battle  of  Oeleans  in  1429,  when 
Joan  of  Arc  secured  the  independence  of 
France. 

10.  The  defeat  of  the  Spanish  Aemad.4. 
in  1588,  which  destroyed  the  hopes  of  the 
Pope  respecting  England. 

11.  The  battle  of  Blenhetm:  (13  Aug., 
1704),  when  Marlborough  and  Prince 
Eugene  defeated  Tallard,  and  thus  pre- 
vented Louis  XIV.  from  carrying  out 
his  schemes. 

12.  The  battle  of  Pl'ltowa  (July, 
1709),  when  Czar  Peter  utterly  defeated 
Charles  XII.  of  Sweden,  and  thus  estab- 
lislied  the  Muscovite  power. 

13.  The  battle  of  Saeatoga  (Oct., 
1777),  when  General  Gates  defeated  the 
British  under  General  Burgoyne,  and 
thus  secured  for  the  United  States  the 
alliance  of  France. 

14.  The  battle  of  VALjnr  (Sep.,  1792), 
when  the  French  Marshal  Kellerman  de- 
feated the  Duke  of  Brunswick,  and  thus 
established  for  a  time  the  French  republic. 

15.  The  battle  of  Waterloo  (18  June, 
1815),  when  Napoleon  the  Great  was 
defeated  by  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  and 
Europe  was  restored  to  its  normal  con- 
dition. 

The  battle  of  GETTV.sBruo,  in  Pennsyhmiia 
(.3  July,  18«!),  when  the  Confeaerates,  undor  the 
icininiand  of  fienei-al  Lee,  were  defeated  by  the 
Niirtliein  anny,  w.as  ceit.ainly  one  of  the  most  iin- 
liMitant,  if  not  the  most  imiiortant,  of  the  Ameri- 
can Civil  War. 

The  battle  of  Sedan'  (.Sep.,  1870). when  Naiiolenn 
gave  up  his  sword  to  William,  King  of  Prussia, 
which  put  au  end  to  the  empire  of  France. 

Fifth-Monarchy  Men.  A  sect  of 
Euglisli  fanatics  in  the  days  of  the  Puri- 
tans, who  maintained  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  about  to  come  a  second  time  to 
the  earth,  and  establish  the  fifth  uni- 
versal monarchy.     The  four  preceding 


Fig 


460 


Fighting  Prelate 


monarchies  were  the  Assjrian,  the  Per- 
sian, the  Macedonian,  and  the  Roman. 
In  politics,  the  Fifth-Monarchy  Men 
were  arrant  Radicals  and  levellers. 

Fig.  Full  fill.  Full  dress.  A  cor- 
ruption of  the  Italian  in  fiuc'chi  (in  gala 
costume).  It  was  derived  from  the  tas- 
sels with  which  horses  were  ornamented 
in  state  processions.  Thus  we  read  in 
Miss  Knight's  Aiftohiof/rap/ii/,  "The 
Pope's  throne  was  set  out  for  mass,  and 
the  whole  building  was  in  j)erfect  fiocchi " 
(in  full  fig).  Another  etymology  has 
been  suggested  by  a  correspondent  in 
Kates  and  Queries,  that  it  is  taken  from 
the  word  full  fig.  (figure)  in  fashion 
books. 

"The  Speaker  sits  at  oncond  all  in  full  flff.witli 
a  clerk  at  the  tal)le  below."— 'y')-o//oj)e ;  Wesl 
Indies,  chap.  i.\.  p.  lui. 

Fig  or  Fiffo.  I  donU  care  a  fig  for 
yon  ;  not  worth  a  fi(j.  Anything  at  all. 
Here  fig  is  fico—  a  fillip  or  snap  of  the 
fingers.  Thus  we  saj',  "I  don't  care 
that  for  you,"  snapping  the  fingers  at 
the  same  time.  (Italian,  far  le  fiehe, 
to  snap  the  fingers;  French,  faire  la 
figue  ;  German,  diefeigen  weixen  ;  Dutch, 
de  ryghe  setten,  etc.)     {fiee  Fico.) 

"A  flg  for  Peter." 

Ultakenpeare. :  2  Jlenry  VI.,  ii.  9. 
"The  flgo  for  th.v  frieiulshii)." 

Sliakespeare :  lleniy  l'.,  iii.  6. 

Fig  Sunday.  Palm  Sunday  is  so 
called  from  the  custom  of  eating  figs  on 
that  day.  The  practice  arose  from  the 
Bible  story  of  Zaccheus,  who  climbed 
up  into  a  fig-tree  to  see  Jesus. 

'.'  Many  other  festivals  have  their 
special  foods;  as,  Michaelmas  goose, 
Christmas,  plum-pudding.  Shrove  Tues- 
day, pancake  day  ;  Ash  Wednesday,  salt 
cod  ;  Good  Friday,  hot  cross-buns  ; 
pasch-eggs,  roast-chestnuts,  etc.,  have 
their  special  days. 

Fig-tree.  It  is  said  that  Judas 
hanged  liimself  on  a  fig-tree.  (<S'ee 
Elder-tree.) 

"  Qnifret  aliuiiisqii.'i  ex  ar'luire  Jndassesnspen'- 
derit  ?    Arbor  Ileus  fuisse  di'citiir."— iJurrurfiuji. 

Figs.  I  shan't  hug  mg  Attic  figs  in 
future,  but  grow  them.  Don't"  count 
your  chickens  before  they  are  hatched. 
It  was  Xerxes  who  boasted  that  he  did 
not  intend  any  longer  to  buy  his  figs, 
because  he  meant  to  conquer  Att'ica  and 
add  it  to  his  own  empire  ;  but  Xerxes 
met  a  signal  defeat  at  Sal'amis,  and 
"  never  loosed  his  sandal  till  he  reached 
Abde'ra." 

"  In  the  name  of  the  Prophet,  Figs  !  " 
A  burlesque  of  the  solemn  language 
employed  in  eastern  countries   in    the 


common  business  of  life.  The  lino 
occurs  in  the  imitation  of  Dr.  Jolmson's 
pompous  style,  in  Jiejected  Addresses,  by 
James  iiiid  Horace  Smith. 

Figged  out.     {See  Fio,  FiiU  Fig.) 

Figaro.  A  type  of  cunning  dex- 
terity, and  intrigue.  Tlie  character  is 
in  the  JIarhier  de  tSerille  and  Mariagc  de 
Figaro,  l)y  Beaumarchais.  In  the  former 
he  is  a  barber,  and  in  the  latter  a  valet ; 
but  in  both  he  outwits  every  one.  There 
are  several  operas  founded  on  these 
dramas,  as  Mozart's  Nozze  di  Figaro, 
Paisiello's  11  liarbiere  di  Siriglia,  and 
Rossini's  //  liarbiere  di  iiiviglia. 

Fight.     (See  Hiidibras,  Pt.  iii.  c.  3.) 

"  He  thai  ll(,'hl>i  and  runs  awav 
May  livr  i.i  ll>,'ht  another  day  ; 
liiit  lie  that  is  in  battle  slain 
ran  never  rise  to  tight  again." 
Sir  Juhn  .Meiines :  Miisiirum  DHietce.    (1(.5C.) 

Demos'thenes,  being  reproached  for 
running  away  from  Philij)  of  Macedon, 
at  Cluerone'a,  replied,  "  A  man  that 
runs  away  may  figlit  again  ('Ai'ijp  0  ^(vyuv 

Ko.\  TraAii'  (iaxTJo-erai)."        (.See    Aulus     O'el- 

lius,  xvii.  ■_'!.) 

Fight  Shy  (To).  To  avoid.  A  ehv 
person  is  unwilling  to  come  forward, 
and  to  fight  Ls  to  resist,  to  struggle  in  a 
contest.  To  "figlit  shy,"  therefore,  is 
to  resist  being  brought  into  contest  or 
conflict. 

Fighting-cocks.  To  lire  li/ce  fighting- 
cocks.  To  have  a  i)rofusion  of  the  best 
food.  Fighting-cocks  used  to  be  high 
fed  in  order  to  aggravate  their  pug- 
nacity and  increase  their  powers  of  en- 
durance. 

Fighting  Fifth  {The).  The  r>th 
Foot.  This  sobriquet  was  given  to  tlie 
regiment  during  the  Peninsidar  War. 

The  "  Old  and  Bold  Fifth,"  the  Duke 
of  Wellington's  Body-guard,  is  now 
called  the  "  Northumberland  Fusiliers." 
What  a  temble  vexation  must  the 
abolition  of  the  time-honoured  names  of 
our  old  regiments  have  been  to  our  arm}'  ! 

Fighting  Kings  [f'hen-kuo].  Cer- 
tain feudatories  of  China  incessantly 
contending  for  mastery  over  each  other. 
(B.C.  770-320.) 

Fighting  Prelate.  Henry  Spencer, 
Bishop  of  Norwich,  who  greatly  distin- 
guished himself  in  the  rebellion  of  W^at 
Tyler.  He  met  the  rebels  in  the  field, 
with  the  temporal  sword,  then  absolved 
them,  and  sent  them  to  the  gibbet. 

"The  Bishop  of  Norwich,  the  famous  '  flu'liting 
jirelate,"  had  led  an  army  iuto  Flanders,  "—iofd 
Campbell. 


Fighting  the  Tiger 


461 


Filomena 


I  Lave  arrived 
iiiir-,-  is  more  fairly  ciirrieil 
:i^iinithan  in  any  AiiK'ri- 
Tliu    Nineteenth    C\iiluni, 


Fighting  the  Tiger.  Gaming  is  so 
called  iu  the  Uuited  States  of  America. 

"AftiM-  Feeiiii.'  '  iV-'litiiii,'  tlie  tiKcr,'  as  Kaniiiis 
is  styled  ill  tlic  r         '  '  "  ' 

tlie  cinchijiiuii  n 
(in  in  the  Munli'  i 
ran  g:iniini,--liiin.' 
Feb.,  l.H'Jd,  i>.  L'l'J. 

Fighting  with  Gloves  on.  Sparring 
without  showing  animosity ;  hghtiug 
with  weapons  or  words  with  coloured 
friendliness.  Fighting,  like  boxers,  with 
boxing  gloves.  Tories  and  Whigs  in  the 
two  Houses  of  I'arliament  fight  with 
gloves  on,  so  long  as  they  preserve  all 
the  outward  amenities  of  debate,  and 
conceal  their  liostility  to  each  other  by 
seeming  friendliness. 

Figure.  To  cut  ajiffiire.  This  phrase 
seems  applicable  more  esx)ecially  to  dress 
and  outward  bearing.  To  make  a  figure 
is  rather  to  make  a  name  or  reputation, 
but  the  distinction  is  not  sharjily  ob- 
served. 

2'o  make  a  figure.  To  be  a  notability. 
Faire  quelque  ji(jure  dans  Ic  monde.  "  He 
makes  no  figure  at  court ; "  II  ne  fait 
Httcitne  fi<jare  a  la  eour. 

.  Figure.  IfliaVs  the  figure  ?  The 
price  ;  what  am  I  to  pay  ?  what ' '  figure  " 
or  sum  docs  my  debt  amount  to  ? 

Figure-head.  A  figure  on  the  head 
or  projecting  cutwater  of  a  ship. 

Figure  of  Fun  (A).  A  droll  appear- 
ance, whether  from  initidiness,  quaint - 
uess,  or  other  iieculiarity.  '  A  precious 
figure  of  fun,'  is  a  i-ather  stronger 
expression.  These  are  chiefly  applied 
to  young  childi'en. 

Figures.  A  corruption  oi fingers,  that 
is,  "digits"  (Latin,  digiti,  fingers).  So 
called  from  the  primitive  method  of 
marking  the  monades  by  the  fingers. 
Thus  the  first  four  were  simply  i,  ii,  iii, 
iiii ;  five  was  the  outline  of  the  hand 
simplified  into  a  v  ;  the  next  four  figures 
were  the  two  combined,  thus,  vi,  vii, 
viii,  viiii ;  and  ten  was  a  double  v,  thus, 
X.  At  a  later  period  iiii  and  viiii  were 
expressed  by  one  less  than  five  (i-v)  and 
one  less  than  ten  (i-x).  Nineteen  was 
ten-plus-nine  (x  +  is),  etc. — a  most 
clumsy  and  unphilosophical  device. 

Filch.  To  steal  or  purloin.  A  filch 
is  a  staff  with  a  hook  at  the  end,  for 
plucking  clothes  from  hedges  and 
abstracting  articles  from  shoi>  windows. 
Probably  it  is  a  corruption  of  pilfer. 
(Welsh,  ijspeilio  and  gsjfeiliicr;  Spanish, 


peUizcar :  French, piller  and  peler.    Fileh 

and  pi/fer  are  variants  of  the  same  word. 

"  Willi  cunning  liast  thou  filched  my  daui,'htcr"s 

heart." 

Shakespeare  :  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  i.  3. 

File.  To  cheat.  The  allusion  is  to 
filing  money  for  the  sake  of  the  dust 
which  can  be  used  or  sold.  A  fife  is  a 
cheat.     Hence  "  a  jolly  file,"  etc. 

"  Sorful  Iiecom  that  fals  file." 

Cursor  MmuU  MS. 

In  single  file.  Single  row  ;  one  behind 
another.     (French,  ^/c,  a  row.) 

Rank  and  file.  Common  soldiers. 
Thus  we  say,  "Ten  officers  and  three 
hundred  rank  and  file  fell  in  the  action." 
Rank  refers  to  men  standing  abreast, 
file  to  men  standing  behind  each  other. 

"  It  was  only  on  the  laith  of  some  grand  exjie- 
dition  that  the  credulous  rank  and  tile  of  the 
Brotherhood  subscribed  their  dollars."  —  Tlic 
Tnuci. 

Fi'lia  Doloro'sa.  The  Duchesse 
d'Angouleme,  daughter  of  Louis  XVI., 
also  called  the  modem  Antig' one.  (1778- 
1851.) 

Filibuster.  A  piratical  adventurer. 
The  most  notorious  was  William  Walker, 
who  was  shot  iu  1 8.55.  {French,fiibHstier, 
a  corruption  of  our  "  freebooter  ;  "  Ger- 
man, freihenter  ;  Spanish,  fi'lilni.stcro  ; 
Dutch,  vrijbueter.)     (See  Buccaneer.) 

Filioque  Controversy  (T/ie)  long 
disturbed  the  Eastern  and  Western 
Churches.  The  jioint  was  this :  Did  the 
Holy  Ghost  proceed  from  the  Father 
and  the  Son  (Filio-qne),  or  from  the 
Father  only?  The  Western  Church 
maintained  the  former,  and  the  Eastern 
Church  the  latter  dogma.  The  filio-que 
was  added  in  the  Council  of  Toledo  589. 
Amongst  others,  Pope  Leo  III.  was 
averse  to  the  change.     (Xiccne  Creed.) 

The  gist  of  the  argument  is  this:  If  the  Son  is 
one  with  the  Father,  whatever  proceeds  from  the 
Father  must  proceed  from  the  Sou  also.  This  is 
technically  called  "The  Prucession  of  the  H(dy 
Ghost." 

Fill-dyke.  The  month  of  Februarj'^, 
when  the  rain  and  melted  snow  fills  the 
ditches  to  ovei-flowing. 

Fillet.  A  narrow  band  round  the 
head  for  binding  the  hair,  or  simply 
for  ornament.  Aure'lian  was  the  first 
Roman  emperor  that  wore  a  royal  fillet 
or  diadem  in  public.  In  the  time  of 
Constantino  the  fillet  was  adorned  with 
precious  stones. 

Filome'na.  Longfellow  calls  Florence 
Nightingale  lit.  Filomena,  not  only  be- 
cause Filomena  resembles  the  Latin  word 
for  a  nightingale,  but  also  because  this 


Filter 


462 


Finger 


saint,  in  Sabatelli's  picture,  is  repre- 
sented as  hovering  over  a  group  of  sick 
and  maimed,  healed  by  her  intercession. 

(^Sec  THAtTMATUEGUS.) 

Filter.  To  run  through  felt,  as  jelly- 
is  strained  through  flannel.  The  Ro- 
mans strained  the  juice  of  their  grapes 
through  felt  into  the  wine-vat,  after 
which  it  was  jjut  into  the  casks.  (Latin, 
feltrum,  ielt,Ji/friiiu,  a  strainer.) 

Fin.  The  hand.  A  contraction  of 
finger.  Thus  we  say,  "  Give  iis  your 
fin"— 7.f.  shake  hands.  The  derivation 
fi'om  a  fish's  fin  is  good  only  for  a  joke. 

Finality  John.  Earl  Russell,  who 
maintained  that  the  Reform  Bill  of  1832 
was  a  finalitti,  yet  in  18o4,  1860,  and 
1866  brought  forth  other  Refonn  Bills.  ; 

Finance  (French).  Revenue  derived 
from  fines  or  subsidies.  In  feudal  times 
finance  was  money  paid  to  a  lord  for  a 
privilege.  In  the  plural  we  use  the  word 
to  signifj'  available  money  resources. 
Thus  wo  say,  "  Mj'  finances  are  ex- 
hausted," meaning  I  have  no  more  funds 
or  available  money. 

Finch  Lane  (London).  So  called 
fi-om  a  family  of  consideratiou  by  the 
name  of  Finch  or  Fiuke.  There  was 
once  a  church  in  the  lane  called  St. 
Benet  Fiiike.  There  is  an  Irish  saint 
named  Fine,  in  Latin  Flncana,  whose 
day  is  October  13th. 

Find.  YoH  knoir  what  ijou leave  hcliinil, 
but  not  icfiat  i/on  icill  Jind.  And  this  it 
is  that  "  makes  us  rather  bear  the  ills  we 
have,  than  fly  to  others  that  Ave  know 
not  of." 

Fin'don  Haddocks.  Haddocks 
smoked  with  green  wood.  (See  .S'*)-  W. 
Scott :  The  ^Intifjxarij,  xxvi.)  Findou 
or  Finnon  is  a  village  some  .six  miles 
south  of  Aberdeen,  where  haddocks  are 
cured. 

Findy.   Plump,  full.    (Saxon, //>;(%.) 
"  A  cold  May  and  a  windy 
Make  barus  fat  and  fiudv." 

Old  Proverb. 

Fine  Arts.  Those  arts  which  chiefly 
depend  on  a  delicate  or  fine  imagina- 
tion, as  music,  painting,  poetry,  and 
sculpture. 

Fine  as  Fivepence.  The  ancient 
Saxon  shilling  was  a  coin  worth  .5d.  "  To 
dress  fine  as  fivepence  "  is  to  dress  very 
smartly.  The  Saxon  shilling  was  a  far 
better  coin  than  those  made  of  tin,  lead, 
and  other  inferior  metals. 

Fine-ear.  One  of  Fortu'nio's  ser- 
vants, who  could  hear  the  grass  grow 


and     the     mole     work    underground. 

{Grimm's  Goblins :  Fortiinio.) 

Fin'etor.  A  necromancer,  father  of 
the  Enchantress-Damsel,  in  Am'adis  of 
Gaul. 

Fingal — i.e.  Fin-mac-Coul.  (See  Sir 
W.  Scott :  Tlie  Antiquanj,  chap,  xxii.) 

Fingal's  Cave.  The  basaltic  cavern 
of  Statt'a.  So  called  from  Fion  na  Gael 
(Fingal),  the  great  Gaelic  hero,  whose 
achievements  liave  been  made  familiar 
by  the  Fingal  of  Macpherson. 

Finger.  (Anglo-Saxon,  j?«^r»'). 
The  car  fnger,  digitus  auriculdris — i.e. 
the  little  finger.  The  four  fingers  are 
the  index  finger,  the  middle  finger,  the 
ring  finger,  and  the  ear  finger.  In 
French,  le  doigt  aurieulairc.  The  little 
finger  is  so  called  because  it  can,  from 
its  diminutive  size,  be  most  easily  intro- 
duced into  the  conduit  of  the  ear. 

".Lrdoiiil  iiiiririiliiirr  est.  le  petit  diii«m,,  ainsi 
niiiiiiiu'  parre  nu'a  cause  de  sa  pelitesse,  II  pent, 
facileiiienl.  ctre  iiitriidiiit  djins  le  cuiidiiit  aiidilif 
extorne."'— iiiVf.  rfc.s  Sciences,  etc. 

Tjic  i)ide.r  finger.  The  first  finger  ;  so 
called  "because  it  is  used  as  a  pointer. 

'The  medical  finger.  The  ring  finger 
{q.r.). 

"  At  last  lie  put  cm  licr  nicilical  lln),-cra  pretty, 
liandsdiiip  f,'idd  lint,',  wlRTejiiIci  was  encbaped  a 
ineciiiiis  toadstone  iif  IJeanssc."— 7i<(6e(((i»;  Pmi,- 
ttiijriiel,  iii.  17. 

'The  rimj  finger.  The  finger  between 
the  long  and  little  finger  was  used  by 
the  Romans  as  a  ring-finger,  from  the 
belief  that  a  nerve  ran  through  it  to  the 
heart.  Hence  the  Greeks  and  Romans 
used  to  call  it  the  medical  finger,  and 
used  it  for  stirring  mixtures,  luider  the 
notion  that  nothing  noxious  could  touch 
it  without  its  giving  instant  warning  to 
the  heart.  It  is  still  a  very  general 
notion  in  England  that  it  is  bad  to  rub 
on  salve  or  scratch  the  skin  with  any  but 
the  ring  finger.  The  fact  that  there  was 
no  such  intimacy  between  the  finger  and 
the  heart  was  not  discovered  till  after 
the  notion  was  deeply  rooted.  Pliny 
calls  this  digitus  annularis. 

With  a  wet  finger.  Easily.  (.SVe  Wet 
Finger.  ) 

Mg  httle  fnger  told  me  that.  The 
same  as  "A  little  bird  told  me  that," 
meaning,  I  know  it,  though  you  did  not 
expect  it.  The  former  expression  is 
from  Moliere's  Malade  Imaginaire.  {See 
Bird.) 

"  By  the  prickinp  of  rny  thumhs, 
Sometliins  wicked  this  way  conies." 

Shakespeare :  Macbeth,  iv.  1. 

org,  babg,  erg  ;  put  gour  finger  in  gour 
egc,  etc.     This  nui^sery  rhyme  seems  to 


Finger  and   Glove 


463 


Fire 


be   I'eferred  to   by   Shakespeare   in   his 
Coined  If  of  Errors,  ii.  2  :— 

"No  lonKerwill  I  lie  fool, 
To  put  the  flnser  in  the  e.ve  aud  wei'ii." 

To  hold  up  a  finger  (in  an  auction 
room)  by  way  of  a  bid,  was  a  Roman 
custom,  "digitum  tollgre  "  {Cicero:  In 
Verrem,  Actio  i.  54).  Horace  confirms 
this. 

To    turn    up   the  little  finger.      (Sec 

TUKN.) 

Finger  and  Glove.  To  be  finger  and 
glove  tvith  a  not  her  means  to  be  most 
intimate. 

Finger  in  the  Pie.  To  have  a  finger 
in  the  pic.  To  assist  or  mix  oneself 
officiously  in  any  matter.  Ease  rci  par- 
ticcps.  In  Fi-euch,  Mettrc  la  main  a  la 
pate. 

Finger  Benediction.  In  the  C4reek 
aud  Roman  Church  the  thumb  and  first 
two  fingers  represent  the  Trinity.  The 
thumb,  being  strong,  represents  the 
Father  ;  the  long  or  second  finger,  Jci^us 
Chrint ;  and  the  first  finger,  the  Ilolg 
Ghost,  which  proceedeth  from  the  Father 
aud  the  Son.     ((SW- Blessing.) 

Some  bishops  of  the  Anglican  Chvirch 
use  this  gesture  Avhile  pronouncing  the 
benediction. 

Finger-stall.  A  hutkin,  a  cover  for 
a  sore  finger.  The  Germans  call  a 
thimble  a  finger-hut,  where  hut  is  evi- 
dently the  word  hut  or  huth  (a  tending, 
keeping,  or  guarding),  from  the  verb 
hutoi  (to  keep  watch  over).  Oxiv  hutkin 
is  simply  a  little  cajt  for  guarding  a  sore 
finger.  '  Stall  is  the  Saxon  st(cl  (a  place), 
whence  our  stall,  a  place  for  horses. 

Fingers.  The  old  names  for  the 
fingers  are  : — 

Thumb  (Anglo-Saxon  thuma). 

Towcher  (the  finger  that  touches),  fore- 
man, or  pointer.  This  was  called  by 
the  Anglo-Saxons  the  scite-finger,  i.e. 
the  shooting  finger. 

Long-man  or  long  finger. 

Lech-man  or  ring-finger.  The  former 
means  "  medical  finger,"  and  the  latter 
is  a  Roman  expression,  "  digitus  annu- 
In'ris.''^  Called  by  the  Anglo-Saxons 
the  gold-finger. 

Little-man  or  little  finger.  Called  by 
the  Anglo-Saxons  the  edr-fingcr. 

Fingers.     Ben  Jonson  says — 
"  The  tbumb,  in  chiromancy,  we  fi\\e  to  Venus  ; 
Tl;e  fore-flnser  to  Jo\  e  ;  tbe  midst,  to  Satiu-n  ; 
Tlje  rius  to  Sol  ;  the  least  to  Mercury." 

Alchemist,  i.  2. 

His  fingers  are  all  thumbs.  Said  of  a 
person  awkward  in  the  use  of  his  hands. 
Ce  sont  les  deux  doigts  de  la,  main. 


Fingers  before  Forks. 

"  This  Vuli-nu  was  ;i  smith,  thev  tell  us, 
That  llrst  invented  touys  and  licHows  ; 
For  breath  and  tinkers  did  Ihrir  works 
(.We'd  angers  long  liefore  we'll  forks)." 

Khi(j:  Alt  of  Love. 

Fingers'  Ends.  /  have  it  at  my 
fingers''  ends.  I  am  quite  familiar  with  it 
aud  can  do  it  readily.  It  is  a  Latin  pro- 
verb (Scire  tanquam  un'gues  dig'ltosq.), 
where  the  allusion  is  to  the  statuary, 
who  knows  every  item  of  his  subject  by 
the  touch.     (6Ve  Unguem.) 

"  Cnstrn-(t :  Go  to  ;  thini  hast  it  ad  dimghill,  at 
the  llnjiers'  ends,  as  they  say. 

lldluffnu's:  I),  I  smell  false  Latin:  dunghill 
for  unguem.''— ,S/(((/iV.-V'i'(fr(' ;  Love's  Labour's  Lost, 
V.  1. 

Fingered. 

The  liglit-fuigered  gcntrg.  Priggers, 
qui  ungues  haniatos  ct  uncos  hahcnt. 

Fingle-fangle  {A").  A  ricochet  word 
meaning  a  fanciful  trifle.  A  "new 
fangle "  is  a  novel  contrivance.  "New 
f angled,"  etc. 

Finished   to    the   Finger-nail,  or 

'■'■ad  ungucin,^''  in  allusion  to  statuaries 
running  their  finger-tips  over  a  statue 
to  detect  if  any  roughness  or  imperfec- 
tion of  surface  remains. 

Finny  Tribe.  Fish  ;  so  called  be- 
cause they  are  furnished  with  fins. 

Finsbury  (Loudon).  A  corruption 
of  Fens-bury,  the  town  in  the  fens. 

Fion,  sou  of  Comnal,  an  enormous 
giaut,  who  could  place  his  feet  ou  two 
mountains,  and  then  stoop  and  drink 
from  a  streani  in  the  valley  between. 
(Gaelic  legend.) 

Fir-cone  on  the  Thyrsus.  The  juice 
of  the  fir-tree  (turpentine)  used  to  be 
mixed  by  the  Greeks  with  new  wine 
to  make  it  keep  ;  hence  it  was  adojited 
as  one  of  the  sj-mbols  of  Bacchus. 

Fir-tree  (The).  Atys  was  metamor- 
phosed into  a  fir-tree  by  C3''bele,  as  he 
was  about  to  lay  violent  hands  on  him- 
self.   (Ovid:  Metamorphoses,  X.  i'cihle  2.) 

Fire.  (Anglo-Saxon, /yr  ,•  Greek,jU«r.) 
St.  Antong's  fire.  Erysipelas.  "Ze 
feu  St.  Antoine.''^  (See  Anthony.) 
St. F[elen''sfire.  "Ignis saneimlleKmc.'''' 
"■Feu  St.  Hclme.''''  (See  Castoe  and 
Pollux;  and  Elmo.) 

Hernies^s  fire.  Same  as  St.  Helen's 
fire  (q.v.). 

I  have  mgsclf  passed  through  the  fire  ; 
I  have  smelt  the  smell  of  fire.  I  have  had 
experience  in  trouble.  The  allusion  is 
to  Shadi'ach,  Mcshach,  aud  Abeduego, 
who  were  cast  into  the  fiery  furnace  l>y 
Nebuchadnezzar  (Dan.  iii.). 


Fire 


464 


First -class 


If  you  will  enjoy  the  fire  yon  must  put 
up  tcith  the  smoke.  (Latiu,  "  Commod'- 
itas  quavis  sua  fcrt  tncommoda  sccuiii.^^) 
Every  convenience  has  its  incouveui- 
ence. 

More  fire  in  the  bed-straw.  More  mis- 
chief brewing.  Alluding  to  the  times 
when  straw  was  used  for  carpets  and 
beds. 

JVofire  without  smoke.  (French,  ^'  X/d 
feu  sans  fumee.'''')  No  good  without  its 
mixture  of  evil. 

No  smoke  ivithout  fire.  To  every  scan- 
dal there  is  some  foundation. 

Where  there  is  smoke  there  is  fire. 
Every  effect  is  tlie  result  of  some  cause. 

Fire.  The  Great  Fire  of  London 
(166())  broke  out  at  Master  Farryner's, 
the  king's  baker,  in  Pudding  Lane,  and 
after  three  nights  and  tliree  days  was 
arrested  at  I'ie  Corner.  St.  Paul's 
Cathedral,  eighty-nine  other  churches, 
and  KJ,'JOO  houses  were  burnt  down. 

Fire  Away !  Say  on  ;  say  what  you 
have  to  say.  The  allusion  to  firing  a. 
gun ;  as.  You  are  iirimed  up  to  the 
muzzle  with  something  you  want  to  say ; 
fire  away  and  discharge  your  thouglits. 

"'Foster,  I  liave  soiiiptljiii.L,'  1  want  y<ni  ami 
Miss  Caryll  to  iiiulei'staud.'  "Kin-  away!'  o.x- 
claimeil  Foster."— H'cfwH.-  The  Web  of  a  Spider, 
ciiai).  XV. 

Fire  away,  Flan'agan.  A  taunt  to  a 
boaster.  A  man  threatening  you,  says 
he  will  do  this,  that,  and  the  other ;  you 
reply,  "Fire  away,  Flanagan."  Crom- 
well marched  against  a  castle  defended 
by  Flanagan,  who  threatened  to  open 
his  cannon  on  the  Parliamentarians  unless 
they  witlidrew.  Cromwell  wrote  on  the 
corner  of  the  missive  sent  to  him,  "  Fire 
away, Flanagan,"  and  the  doughty  cham- 
pion took  to  his  heels  immediately. 

Fire  First.  Non,  Monsieur,  nous  ne 
tirons  jamais  les  premiers.  According 
to  tradition,  this  was  said  by  the  Count 
D'Auteroches  to  Lord  Charles  Hay  at 
the  battle  of  Foutenoy,  30th  April, 
1745  (old  style). 

"On  cetait  de  tradition  dans  rarmee  :  on 
laissait  toujours  par  courtoisie,  l'a\antago  du 
premier  feu  a  I'ennenii."  (See  Xotes  and  Queries, 
fUth  Octoher,  1892,  p.  345.) 

Fire-balloon.  A  balloon  whose  as- 
censional power  is  derived  from  hot  air 
rising  from  a  fire  beneath  its  open  mouth. 
Montgolfier  used  such  a  balloon. 

Fire-brand.  An  incendiary ;  one 
who  incites  to  rebellion ;  like  a  blazing 
brand  which  sets  on  fire  all  it  touches. 

"  Our  fire-brand  lirotber,  Paris,  burns  us  all." 
Shakespeare :  Troilus  and  Cressida,  ii.  2. 


Fire-drake  or  Fire-dragon.  A  fieiy 
serpent,  an  ignis-fatuus  of  large  propor- 
tions, superstitiously  believed  to  be  a 
flying  dragon  keeping  guard  over  hid 
treasures. 

"Tbere  is  a  fellow  soniewiiat  near  tlio  door,  lie 
should  lie  a  brazirr  by  Lis  face,  for,  o'  my  con- 
science, twenty  of  tlie  don-days  now  reifjn  in  's 
nose.  .  .  .  That  lire-drake  did  I  hit  three  times  on 
the  head."-.S/o'/.-.,v;,r(irc;  lliiinj  VIII.,  v.  3. 

Fire-eaters.  Persons  ready  to  quar- 
rel for  auytliing.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
jugglers  who  "eat"  flaming  tow,  pour 
melted  lead  down  tlieir  throats,  and 
hold  red-hot  metal  between  tlieir  teeth. 
Richardson,  in  the  scvriitniith  century 
• — Signora  JoseiJliine  Girardelli  (tlie  ori- 
ginal Salamander),  in  the  earlj'^  part  of 
the  nineteenth  century — and  Chaubcrt, 
a  Frenchman,  of  the  present  century, 
were  the  most  noted  of  these  exhibitors. 

"  The  sreat  lire-eater  lay  uncons<-ious  npou  the 
floor  of  the  house."— .Viis/iviHc  Baiiner. 

Fire-new.   Spick  and  span  new  (q.t\). 

"  Yon  shoulil  have  accosted  her  ;  and  with  gomo 
excellent  jests  lire-new  from  the  mint."— i'/idAe- 
spriire  :  Tirelfth  Xight,  ill.  2. 

Fire-ship.  A  ship  filled  with  com- 
bustibles to  bo  sent  against  adverse 
vessels  in  ortler  to  set  tliem  on  fire. 

Fire  Up  (7o).  To  become  indig- 
nantly angry.  Tlie  Latin,  "  ird  e.rardes- 
f?)r,"  "  Injlitnnm  r  de  eolere." 

Fire  Worship  was  introduced  into 
Persia  by  Phce'dima,  widow  of  Smerdis, 
and  wife  of  Gushtasp  daraursh,  usually 
called  Hystaspes  (n.c.  o'21-48o).  It  is 
not  the  sun  that  is  worshipped,  but  God, 
who  is  supposed  to  reside  in  it ;  at  the 
same  time  they  reverence  the  sun,  not  as 
a  deity  but  as  the  throne  of  deity.  {See 
Paesees.  ) 

Fire  and  Sword.  Letters  off  re  and 
sirord.  If  a  criminal  resisted  the  law 
and  refused  to  answer  his  citation,  it 
was  accounted  treason  in  the  Scottish 
courts  ;  and  ' '  letters  of  fire  and  sword  " 
were  sent  to  the  sheriff,  authorising  him 
to  use  either  or  both  these  instruments 
to  appi'ehend  the  contumacious  party. 

Fire  and  Watet.  I  will yo  throuyh 
fire  and  water  to  serve  you.  The  refer- 
ence is  the  ordeals  of  fire  and  water 
which  might  be  transferred  to  substi- 
tutes. Paul  seems  to  refer  to  substitu- 
tional death  in  Rom.  v.  7  :  "  Scarcely 
for  a  righteous  man  will  one  die ;  yet 
for  a  good  man  some  would  even  dare  to 
die." 

Firm  as  a  Rock.     {See  Similes.) 

First-class  Hard  Labour.     Under 

this  sentence,   the  prisoner  sleeps  on  a 


Pirst-fruits 


465 


Fish 


plank  bed  without  a  matti-ess,  ami 
speuds  six  or  eight  hours  a  day  turning 
a  liard  crank,  or  treading  a  wheel.  (iS'cc 
Second-class  Hard  Labour.) 

First-fruits.  The  first  profitable 
results  of  labour.  lu  husbandry,  the 
first  coru  that  is  cut  at  harvest.  We 
also  use  the  word  in  an  evil  sense ;  as, 
the  first-fruits  of  sin,  the  first-fruits  of 
repentance. 

First  Water.  A  diamond  of  the  first 
icater.     {Sec  Diamond.) 

First   Gentleman   of  Europe.    A 

nickname  given  to  George  IV.,  who 
certainly  was  first  in  rank,  but  it  would 
be  sad  indeed  to  think  he  was  ever  the 
most  gentlemanly  man  in  feeling,  man- 
ners, and  deportment.  Louis  d'Artois 
was  so  called  also. 

First    Grenadier    of  France.     A 

title  given  l)y  Napoleon  to  Latour  d'Au- 
vergue  (171:3-1800). 

First  Stroke  is  Half  the  Battle. 

"Well  begun  is  half  done."  "  A  good 
lather  is  half  the  shave." 

Latin:  "Iiu'ipe:   (limidiinu  facti  est  coppisse." 

(.lH.si)HI»S.) 

"Dimiiliuin    facti,   qui    co'iiit,    lialiet." 
(Wi<ra,v.) 
French:  "  B:u)ic  liieu  saviiniiet'  est  a  iiKiitic  f.iite. 
Uemtnix  cDiiiiuencemeut  est  la  luoitio 

(le  I'dHivi-e. 
C  ii'est  que  le  premier  pas  (iiii  cofite." 

Fish.  The  French  have  a  renuirkable 
locution  respecting  fish  as  a  food  : 

"  Apres  poisson,  lait  est  poison  ; 
Apres  poisson,  le  vin  est  lion  ; 
Apres  poisson,  noix  est  contre-poison."' 

Fish.  The  reason  why  fish  are  em- 
ployed as  card-counters  is  from  a  mis- 
apprehension of  the  French  word fi'c/ic 
(a  five-sou  piece).  The  two  points 
allowed  for  the  "rub"  are  called  in 
French  la  fiche  de  conanlation.  The 
Spanish  word  pez  has  also  a  double 
meaning — a  "winning,"  or  a  "  fish  ;  " 
pez  is  the  Welsh ^»/.«.y/,  Latin  /»/«■',  Eng- 
lish fish. 

A  loose  fitih.  One  of  loose  or  dissolute 
habits.  F'usli  implying  a  human  being 
is  derogatory,  but  bird  is  a  loving  term, 
as  my  "bonny  bird,"  etc.  Beast  is 
most  reproachful,  as  "  You  are  a 
beast." 

A  prett;/  kettle  offish.     {See  Kittle.) 

A  queer  fish.  An  eccentric  person. 
(See  above,  Loose  Fish.) 

All  is  fish  that  eomes  to  iiii/  )iet.  ^'Anri 
bonus  est  odor  ex  re  qualibet.''''  I  am 
willing  to  deal  in  anything  out  of  which 
I  can  make  a  i^rofit.  I  turn  everything 
to  some  use. 

"  Al  is  fl^lie  tliat  Cometh  to  the  uet."-C.  Gus- 
coigne :  The  Steele  Glas  (died  1577). 

30 


Jfe  eats  no  fish  ;  he  is  not  a  papist ;  he 
is  an  honest  man,  and  one  to  be  trusted. 
In  the  reign  of  Elizabeth  papists  were 
opposed  to  the  Government,  and  Pro- 
testants, to  show  their  loyalty,  refused 
to  eat  fish  on  Fridays  to  show  they  were 
not  papists. 

"I  do  profess  ....  to  serve  him  trul.v  .... 
and  to  eat  no  fish." — tihakespeare :  King  Lear,  i.  4. 

/  have  other  fish  to  fry  ;  "  J^ai  Men 
d^ottres  affaires  en  tvte  ;''''  '■' Aliud  mihi 
est  a<ie)idiim  ;  "  I  am  busy  and  cannot 
attend  to  [that]  now ;  I  have  other 
matters  to  attend  to. 

Mute  as  a  fish.  Fish  have  no  language 
like  birds,  beasts,  and  insects.  Their 
utmost  power  of  sound  is  a  feeble  cry  of 
pain,  the  result  of  intestinal  respiration. 
The  French  also  .say  "mute  conime  un 
poisson." 

The  best  fish  smell  when  theij  are  three 
days  old ;  "  rhote  ct  le  poisson  piient 
passe  trois  jours.''''  "Withdraw  thy 
foot  from  thy  neighbour's  house,  lest  he 
get  weary  of  thee,  and  so  hate  thee" 
(Prov.  XXV.  17).  "Don't  outstay  your 
welcome." 

The  best  fish  swim  near  the  bottom. 
"  Le  vieilleur  poisson  nage pres  dufond.''^ 
What  is  most  commercially  valuable  is 
not  to  be  found  on  the  surface  of  the 
earth,  nor  is  anything  else  really  valu- 
able to  be  obtained  without  trouble. 
"■  II  faut  easser  le  noyau  pour  en  avoir 
Vumande,^''  for  "  Hil  sine  mayno  vita 
labore  dedit  mortalibics.^' 

Fish.  It  is  neither  fish,  fiesli,  nor  fowl; 
ov  JS'either  fish,  fiesh,  nor  good  red  her- 
ring. Not  fish  "(food  for  the  monk),  not 
flesh  (food  for  the  people  generally), 
nor  yet  red  herring  (food  for  paupers) . 
Suitable  to  no  class  of  people ;  fit  for 
neither  one  thing  nor  another. 

V  Fish  conies  first  because  in  the 
Middle  Ages  the  clergy  took  precedence 
of  the  laity. 

"Slie  would  lie  a  hetwixt-aud-hetwcen  .... 
neitlit'i-  llsh  nor  UK\."—Mys.  Lynn  Linton. 

Fish-day  {A)  [jour  maigre].  A  day 
in  the  lloman  Catholic  Church  when 
persons,  without  ecclesiastical  permis- 
sion, are  forbidden  to  eat  meat. 

Fish-wife  ( -/ ) .  A  woman  who  hawks 
fish  about  the  streets. 

Fish  and  Flesh.  You  must  not  mnhc 
jlsh  (f  one  and  fiesh  of  the  othet .  You 
must  treat  both  alike.  Fish  is  an  in- 
ferior sort  of  animal  food  to  flesh.  The 
alliteration  has  much  to  do  with  the 
phrase. 

Fish  in  Troubled  Water  ( To).  In 
French,   "  I'eehcr  en  eaa  trouble.'^     To 


Fish  it  Out 


466 


Fixt 


scrani'ble  for  personal  advantage  in 
times  of  rebellion,  revolution,  or  national 
calamity. 

Fish  it  Out  {To).    Tliis  is  the  Latin 

CXplscoV. 

Fish  out  of  Water.  Out  of  place  ; 
■without  oue's  usual  occupation  ;  restless 
from  lack  of  employment. 

Fisher  of  Souls  {The  great).  The 
devil. 

"  I  trust,  ymins  man,  that  neitlier  i<Ileness  nor 
lioentious  pleasure  ....  the  chief  liaits  with 
whirh  tlie  t-'rt'.U  Fislier  of  souls  conreals  his 
li(Hiks,;ne  tlic  caiisi'sof  yourdecliniiit;  tlie  c.-ireer 
tn  whicli  I  would  iuoite  you."— .S7c  W.  Scutt:  The 
Mii:iiisf(  rij,  chap.  xi. 

Fisherman.  The  fisherman  who  was 
father  of  three  Icing fs.  Abu  Shujah  al 
Bou3^ah  was  a  Persian  fisherman  in  the 
province  of  Delem',  whose  three  sons, 
Imad,  Ruken,  and  Moez,  all  rose  to 
sovereign  power. 

Fishing.  Fishing  for  coinplinienls. 
Laying  a  bait  for  praise. 

Fisk  (in  IFudihras)  was  Nicholas 
Fiek,  a  physician  and  astrologer,  who 
used  to  say  that  a  ])liysician  never  de- 
served his  bread  till  he  had  no  teeth  to 
eat  it.  In  his  old  age  he  was  almost  a 
beggar. 

Fitz  (Xorman).  Son  of :  as  Fitz- 
Herbert,  Fitz-William,  Fitz-Peter,  etc. 
It  is  sometimes  applied  to  illegitimate 
cliildren,     as     Fitz-Clareiice,    Fitz-ro}', 

etc. 

Fitz-Fulke  {Hebe).  "  A  gracious, 
graceful,  graceless  grace;"  "fat,  fair, 
and  fortj'."      {Bgron  :  Don  Juan,  canto 

xvi.) 

Fitzwilliam  Museum  (Cambridge 
Uuiversitv).  So  called  from  Earl  Fitz- 
william, who  left  £100,000,  with  books, 
paintings,  etc.,  to  form  the  nucleus  of  a 
museum  for  the  benefit  of  the  university. 

Five,  or  the  pentad,  the  great  mystic 
number,  being  the  sum  of  2  +  3,  the 
first  even  and  first  odd  compound.  Lenity 
is  God  alone,  i.e.  without  creation.  Two 
is  diversity,  and  three  (being  1+2)  is 
the  compound  of  unity  and  diversity,  or 
the  two  principles  in  operation  since 
creation,  and  rei)rescuting  all  the  powers 
of  nature. 

Five-minute  Clause.  A  provision 
sometimes  inserted  in  deeds  of  separa- 
tion, whereby  it  is  stipulated  that  the 
deed  is  null  and  void  if  the  husband  and 
wife  remain  together  five  minutes  after 
the  separation  is  enjoined. 


Five  Nations  {The).  Tlic  five  con- 
federated Indian  tribes,  viz.  the  Mohawks, 
Oneidas,  Onondagas,  CajTigas,  and  Se- 
necas.  Known  as  the  Iroquois  Confede- 
racy. 

Five  Points  {The).  (See  Calvixism.) 

Five  Wits.  (1)  Common  sense,  (2) 
imagination,  (3)  fantasy,  (4)  estimation, 
and  (.5)  memorj'.  Common  sense  is  the 
outcome  of  the  five  senses  ;  imagination 
is  the  "wit"  of  the  mind;  fantasy  is 
imagination  united  with  judgment  ; 
estimation  estimates  the  absolute,  such 
as  time,  space,  lociility,  and  so  on  ;  and 
memory  is  the  "wit"  of  recalling  past 
events,     (fiee  Seven  Wits.) 

"  Four  of  liis  five  wits  went  h.aUiiig  off." 

Slittl,eKi>e<tic:  Much  Ada,  etc.,  i.  1. 
"  Tlicse  are  tlie  (Ive  wilts  reniovyii^-  iiiwardly  : 
First,  '  t'ouiiiioii  wute,'  and  theu  '  Yiiiagiu- 

atinn,' 
'  Faut.isy,'  and  'Estimation'  truely, 
Anil  '  .Memory.' " 
Stei'liiii  Iltiaes  :  The  Pasne-ti/nic  of  rhsure  (15\:>). 

•.•  Not«  ithstandinK  tliisquotation,  probahly  the 
Five  Wits  mean  the  wits  of  the  five  senses. 

Fiver  {A).  A  five-pound  note.  A 
"tenner "  is  a  ten-i^ouud  note. 

Fives.  A  game  .similar  to  court-ten- 
nis ;  the  haiul,  however,  is  used  iii.ste.adof 
a  racket.  Said  to  be  so  called  because 
the  game  is  three  fives  (15). 

"Ho  forsot  tliat  cricket  and  fives  are  rapU:il 
training  for  ti-nnis. "— 2'.  lluylies:  Turn  liiinvn  tit 
Oxford,  chap.  ii. 

A  hunch  of  fees.  The  fist,  in  which 
the  five  fingers  are  bound  in  a  bunch. 

Fix.  I'm  in  a  fi.r.  A  predicament. 
The  allusion  is  to  machinery  which  will 
not  move.  The  Xorthuniberland  was  in 
a  terrible  fix  at  the  launch,  when  it 
refused  to  leave  tlie  dock.     (1866.) 

Fixed  Air.  Carbonic  dioxide  gas.  Dr. 
Black  gave  it  this  name,  because  car- 
bonate of  magnesia  evolved  by  heat 
carbonic  acid,  that  is,  MgO,  COj  evolved 
COi,  thereby  proving  that  CO^  (carbonic 
acid)  is  a  "  fixed  air." 

Fixed  Oils.  Oils  obtained  by  simple 
pressure.  The.se  oils  do  not  readily  dry 
or  volatilise,  but  remain  fixed  in  tlieir 
oily  character. 

Fixed  Stars.  Stars  whose  relative 
position  to  other  stars  is  fixed  or  always 
the  same.  Planets  are  always  shifting 
their  relative  positions. 

Fixt  {The).  That  is,  the  Firmament. 
According  to  the  Ptolemaic  Sj-stem,  tlie 
earth  is  surrounded  by  nine  spheres. 
These  spheres  are  surrounded  by  the 
Frimum3Ioblle  {ov'FhsiM.oy^Oi)  ;  and  the 


Placcus 


467 


Flame 


Premium   Mobile  is  enveloped  by   tlie 

empyrean,  or  abode  of  deity. 

"Tlicy  pass  tlic  planets  seven,  and  pass  tlie  flxt, 
Aiul  tli:i.t  crystalline  sphere  whose  balance  weighs 
The  trepidation  talked,  and  that  first  moved." 
Milton  :  Paradise  Lost,  iii.  481—3. 

Flaccus.  Horace,  the  Roman  jjoet, 
wliose  full  name  was  Quiutus  Hora'tius 
Flaccus. 

Flag.     (Danish,  ^;7(/_i7.) 

A  black  Jlay  is  the  eml^lem  of  piracy  or 
of  no  quarter.     (.SVr  Black  Flags.) 

To  unfurl  the  black  Jlay.  To  declare 
war.  The  curtain  whicli  used  to  hang 
before  the  door  of  Ayeshah,  Mahomet's 
favourite  wife,  was  taken  for  a  national 
flag,  and  is  regarded  by  Mussulmans  as 
the  most  precious  of  relics.  It  is  black, 
and  is  never  unfolded  except  as  a  declar- 
ation of  war. 

A  red  flay.  To  display  a  red  flag  is  to 
defy  or  dare  to  battle.  Red  is  the  emblem 
of  blood.     The  Roman  signal  for  battle. 

A  yellow  flag  signals  contagious  disease 
on  board  ship. 

To  get  one's  flag.  To  become  an 
admiral.  Formerly  the  captain  of  a  flag- 
ship was  called  a  "  flag-officer." 

"  I  do  not  believe  that  the  Imllet  is  cast  that  is 
to  deprive  you  of  life.  Jack  ;  yon'll  get  your  flat', 
as  I  hope  to  get  m\\\e:'— Kingston :  The  Three  Ad- 
mirals, xiii. 

To  hang  the  flag  half-mast  high  is  in 
token  of  mourning  or  distress. 

To  hang  oat  the  a-Jntcflag.  To  sue  for 
quarter  ;  to  give  in. 

To  lower  one'' s  flag ;  to  eat  humble  pie  ; 
to  eat  the  leek ;  to  confess  oneself  in  the 
wrong ;  to  eat  one's  own  words. 

"The  .  .  .  Association  .  .  .  after  systematically 
opposing  the  views  of  the  .  .  .  National  Congress, 
liad  to  lower  the  flag  and  pass  a  resolution  in 
favour  of  siniultaneous  exainiiiatious."  —  A7«e- 
P-enth  Century  (April,  ISIM,  page  070). 

To  strike  the  flag.  To  lower  it  or  pull 
it  down  upon  the  cap.  in  token  of  re- 
spect or  submission.  In  naval  warfare 
it  means  to  surrender. 

Flag,  Flags. 

Jtimners  oj  Saints.  Flags  smaller  than  stand- 
ards, and  not  slit  at  the  extremity. 

Royal  Banners  contain  the  royal  arms, 

fitdndards.mMch  largerand  longer  than  banners, 
and  slit  at  the  extremity.  A  standard  has  no 
armorial  bearings. 

Bargee.  A  small  flag  with  the  loose  end  cleft 
like  a  •«=. 

Pennant.    A  small  triangular  flag. 

Pennons,  much  smaller  than  standards  ;  rounded 
at  the  extremity,  and  charged  with  arms. 

Bannerols,  banners  of  great  width,  representing 
alli.ances  and  descents. 

Pensils,  small  flags  shaiied  like  the  vanes  on 
liinnacles. 

Flag  Lieutenant  (A).  An  admiral's 
aide-de-camp. 

Flag-officer.  Either  an  admiral, 
vice-admiral,  rear-admiral,  or  commo- 
dore.   These  officers  alone  are  privileged 


to  carry  a  flag  denoting  rank.  Admirals 
carry  their  flag  at  the  main,  vice-admi- 
rals at  the  fore,  and  rear-admirals  at  the 
mizen.     {See  Admieai.) 

Flag-ship.     A  ship  carrying  a  flag 
officer.     {See  Admiral.) 
Flag  Signals  (on  railroads). 

"  White  is  all  right ;  Red  is  all  wrong  ; 
(ireeu  is  go  cautiously  bowling  along." 

Flag's  Down  {The).  Indicative  of 
distress.  When  the  face  is  pale  the 
"flag  is  down."  Alluding  to  the  an- 
cient custom  of  taking  down  the  flag  of 
theatres  during  Lent,  when  the  theatres 
were  clo-sed. 

"  'Tis  Lent  in  your  cheeks,  the  flag's  down."— 
Dndslni's  Old  Plays  (vol.  v.  p.  314,  article,  ■' JIad 

World.") 

Flag  of  Distress.  A  card  at  one's 
window  announcing  "  lodgings "  or 
"board  and  lodgings."  The  allusion  is 
evident.  A  flag  reversed,  hoisted  with 
the  union  downwards. 

Flagellants.  A  sect  of  enthusiasts 
in  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century, 
who  went  in  procession  about  the  streets 
inflicting  on  themselves  daily  flagel- 
lations, in  order  to  merit  thereby  the 
favour  of  God.  They  were  put  down 
soon  after  their  appearance,  but  revived 
in  the  fourteenth  century.  Also  called 
"  Brothers  of  the  Cross." 

Flam.  Flattery  for  an  object ;  blar- 
ney; humbug.  (Irish, ^o«,  Anglo-Saxon, 
flcoii,  flight.) 

"  They  told  me  what  a  fine  thing  it  was  to  he  an 
Englishman, and  al.otit  liberty  and  property  .  .  . 
)  tind  it  was  a  n-.im."— Godwin:  Caleb  Williams, 
vol.  ii.  chap.  V.  p.  D7. 

Flamberge  or  Floberge.  The  .sword 
which  Maugis  took  from  Anthenor,  the 
Saracen  admii'al,  when  he  came  to  attack 
the  castle  of  Oriande  la  Fee.  It  was 
made  by  Weyland,  the  Vulcan  of  the 
Northern  Olympus.  {Romance  of  Mau- 
gis cV Aygremont  et  de  Vivian  son  Frcrc.) 

"  Mais  si  une  fois  je  Uty  fais  essayer  ceste-cy 
plus  tranchante  fjue  '  JoyeusCj  Durandel,  Haute- 
claire,  ou  Flamberge,'  je  le  fendray  juscjues  a 
restomach."— Pi'en-e  de  I'Arivey  :  Le  Jaloiex,  \.  0. 

Flamboyant  Architecture.  A  florid 
style  which  prevailed  in  France  in  the 
l.)th  and  IGth  centuries.  So  called  from 
its  flame-like  tracery. 

'•The  great  tower  [of  Antwerp  cathedral]  .  .  . 
nujst  florid  and  flamboyant  ...  is  one  of  the  few 
rivals  of  the  peerless  steeple  of  Strasbourg."— 
James  :  Sketches  (Belgium),  p.  394. 

Flame.  A  sweetheart.  "An  old 
flame,"  a  quondam  sweetheart.  In 
IjatiUjAa/nina  is  used  for  lore,  and  so  is 
feu  in  French.  Ardeo,  to  bum  like  fire, 
"is  also  applied  to  the  passion  of  love ; 
hence,    Virgil    {Eel.    ii.    4),    "  Corgdon 


Flaming 


468 


Flay  a  Fox 


ardchat  Alexin  ;  "  and  Horace   (Epoch 
xiii.  9),  ^'■Arsit  Anacreon  Bathyllo.^^ 

Flaming.  Superb,  captivating,  at- 
tractive. The  French  flamhaxt.  This 
word  was  originally  applied  to  those 
persons  who  dressed  themselves  in  rich 
dresses  "flaming"  with  gold  and  silver 
thread.  We  now  speak  of  a  "  flaming 
advertisement,"  etc. 

'■  Le  velour,  trop  coniimin  on  Franco, 

Sous  tny  repreufl  sou  vieil  hoiuieiir, 
Tenement  aue  ta  roniontrance 
Nous  a  fait  voir  la  difference 

Du  valet  et  de  son  Seigneur, 
Et  du  uiuguet  charse  de  s  'je 

Qui  Ji  tes  princes  s'esgaloit, 
Et  riclie  en  draps  de  soye,  alloit 

Faisaut  Hamber  toutr  la  vove." 

Uunmrd:  An  Run  Henri  II.    (l.i«.) 

Fla'ming  Swords.  Swords  with  a 
wavy  ov Jiainhoyunt  edge,  generally  used 
for  state  purposes.  The  Dukes  of  Bur- 
gundy carried  swords  of  this  sort,  and 
they  were  worn  in  our  country  till  the 
accession  of  William  III. 

Flamin'ian  Way.  The  great  north- 
ern road  of  ancient  Italj%  constructed 
by  C.  Flaniin'ius,  and  beginning  at  the 
Flaminian  gate  of  Rome,  and  leading  to 
Arimiuium  (Rimini). 

Flanders  {Moll).  The  chief  character 
of  De  Foe's  novel  of  the  same  name. 
(She  runs  through  the  whole  career  of 
female  iirofligacy,  then  turns  religious. 

Flanders'  Babies.  The  wooden 
jointed  dolls  common  in  the  early  part 
of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  now 
almost  entirely  superseded  by  "wax 
dolls." 

Flanders'  Mare  {The).  So  Henry 
VIII.  called  Anne  of  Cloves.  She  died 
at  Chelsea  in  1.3.57. 

Flaneur  (French).  A  lounger,  gos- 
siper.     Yvo-mjliiiur,  to  saunter  about. 

Flap-dragons.  Small  combustible 
bodies  blazing  at  one  end  and  floating 
in  a  glass  of  liquor.  The  liquor  was 
stirred  about  with  a  candle-end  to  pro- 
mote combustion.  A  skilful  toper  would 
swallow  them  blazing,  as  we  swallow 
the  blazing  raisins  of  snap-dragons. 

"  He  drinks  off  candles"  ends  for  flap-dragons." 
—Sliiii.tf'peai-e  :  i;  Henry  IV.,  ii.  i. 

Flare-up.  A  sudden  outburst  of 
anger;  a  gas-jet  or  other  ignitible  body 
flares  up  when  Hghted  with  a  sudden 
blaze. 

Flare-up  {A).  A  rumpus  or  row. 
Also  a  banquet  or  jovial  treat.  The 
lirst  meaning  is  simply  the  substantive 
of  tlie  verb.  The  second  meaning  refers 
to  dazzle  and  "  splendour-  "  displayed. 


Flash.  A  nitre  flush  in  the  pan .  All 
sound  and  fury,  signifying  nothing  :  like 
the  attempt  to  discharge  a  gun  that  ends 
with  a  flash  in  the  lock-pan,  the  guu 
itself  "  hanging  fire." 

Flash  Men  and  Flash  Notes.  Be- 
tween Buxton,  Leek,  and  Macclesfield 
is  a  wild  country  called  the  I''la.sh,  from 
a  chapel  of  that  name.  Here  used  to 
live  a  set  of  pedlars,  who  liawked  about 
buttons,  ribbons,  and  other  articles  made 
at  Leek,  together  with  handkerchiefs 
and  small  wares  from  Manchester.  They 
were  known  on  the  road  as  Flash-men, 
and  frequented  fairs  and  farmhouses. 
They  paid,  at  first,  read3'-money ;  but 
when  they  had  estabUshed  a  credit,  paid 
in  i^romissory  notes,  which  were  rarely 
honoured.  They  were  ultimately  put 
down  by  the  magistracy. 

Flat.  One  who  is  not  shaq) ;  a  suite 
of  rooms  on  one  floor. 


"Oh,  Messrs. 
Times. 


wliat  flats  you  are  ! 


"  He  said  lie  was  going  to  liave  a  flat  to  let  on' the 
top  floor."  —  Iloirells  :  Uazardx  of  Aew  Furtuiirx. 
vol.  i.  part  i.  p.  123. 

Flat  as  a  flounder.     I  knocked  him 

down  flat  as  a  flounder.     A  flounder  is 

one  of  the  flat-fish. 

lliit  as  a paiicahf.  Quite  flat.  A  pan- 
cake is  a  tliin  flat  cake,  fried  in  a  jjan. 

Flat-fish.  He  is  a  rer/alar  flat-fish. 
A  dull,  stupid  fellow,  not  up  to  any- 
thing. The  play  is  upon  flat  (stupid), 
and  such  fish  as  jjlaice,  dabs,  and  soles. 

Flat  Milk.  Skimmed  milk,  that  is, 
milk  '•  fletted  "  (Anglo-Saxon,  flef, 
cream;  Latin, ^as  lactis.) 

Flat  Race  {A).  A  race  on  the  flat 
or  level  ground  without  obstacles. 

Flat  Simplicity.  "  Theflat  shiiplieiti/ 
of  that  rephi  teas  adtiiiyable.^'  {('ollci/ 
Cibber  :  The  Crooked  Hasband,  i.  1.) 

Flatterer.  Yitellius,  the  Roman  sy- 
nonym of  flatterer.  (Tacitus,  Ann. vi.  32.) 

Flatterers.  IVIun  flatterers  meet,  the 
devil  i/oes  to  dinn'r.  Flattery  is  so  perni- 
cious, so  fills  the  heart  with  pride  and 
conceit,  so  perverts  the  judgment  and 
disturbs  the  balance  of  the  mind,  that 
Satan  himself  could  do  no  greater  mis- 
chief. He  may  go  to  dumer  and  leave 
the  leaven  of  wickedness  to  operate  its 
own  mischief. 

"  rorteus,  there  is  a  proverb  thou  sliould.^t  reail : 
'  When  llatterers  meet,  the  devil  irnes  todinuei-.'" 
J'etir  Phidiir :  Xil  .idmirtiri. 

Flay  a  Fox  {To).    To  vomit. 

"  At  the  time  of  the  paroxysm  he  used  to  flay  a, 
fox  by  way  of  antidote.''— TJrtbeJd/*;  Puiitagriiel, 
iv.  ii. 


Flea 


469 


Flemish  School 


Flea.  When  the  Princess  Badoiira 
was  placed  on  Prince  Camararzamau's 
bed,  iu  order  to  compare  theii-  claims 
to  beauty,  the  fairy  Maimouue  changed 
herself  into  a  flea,  and  bit  the  jjrince  ou 
the  neck  in  order  to  awake  him.  Next, 
the  genius  Danhasch  changed  himself 
into  a  flea  and  bit  the  iiriucess  on  the 
lip,  that  she  might  oj)en  her  eyes  and  see 
the  piiuce.  {^Iruhian  Nighls ;  C'auia- 
ndzaiiiaii  and  Badoina.) 

Flea  as  a  parasite. 

'•  Hnlilies  clearly  iirovcs  ilmt  every  creature 
Lives  ill  :i  stall'  n£  war  liy  iiamre  ; 
Sn  iialiiralists  ol.servL-  a  ilea 
Has  smaller  tleas  that  mi  liini  prey. 
And  these  have  smaller  still  to  bite  'em, 
And  so  iiruceed  ad  Uifinitum." 

Sici/t :  Poetry  ;  a  Itliapsody. 

Sent  off  with  afea  in  his  car.  Peremp- 
torily. A  dog  which  has  a  flea  in  the 
ear  is  very  restless,  and  runs  off  in 
terror  and  distress.  In  French  :  Jletire 
a  qiulqiCun  puce  a  Vorcille.  Probably 
our  chauge  of  Avord  implies  a  pun. 

Flea-bite.  It  is  a  mere  Jlca-hitc.  A 
thing  of  no  moment.  Thus,  a  merchant 
who  has  suffered  loss  by  speculation  or 
failure  might  say  that  the  loss  is  a  mere 
flea-bite  to  him.  A  soldier  might  call 
a  wound  a  mere  flea-bite.  A  passing 
inconvenience  Avhich  aimoys  but  leaves 
no  pemianent  injury.  Mr.  DisraeU 
spoke  of  the  national  debt  as  a  mere 
flea-bite. 

Flea's  Jump.  Aristoph'aues,  in  the 
Chads,  says  that  Socrates  and  Cha;'- 
rephon  tried  to  measure  how  many  times 
its  own  length  a  flea  jumped.  They  took 
in  wax  the  size  of  a  nea's  foot ;  then,  on 
the  principle  of  e.t  pcde  Kercalem,  calcu- 
lated the  length  of  its  body.  Having 
found  this,  and  measured  the  distance  of 
the  flea's  jump  from  the  hand  of  Socrates 
to  Cha;rephon,  the  knotty  problem  was 
resolved  by  simple  multiplication. 

Fle'ance    (2  syl.).     Son  of  Banquo. 

{Shakespeare  :  Macbeth.) 

Fleche.  Faire  fleche  de  tout  hois.  To 
turn  every  event  into  a  cause  of  censiu'e. 
Ts  make  whatever  wood  falls  in  j-our 
path  an  arrow  to  discharge  at  yoiu- 
adversary. 

Flecknoe  {Richard).  An  Irish  priest, 
who  printed  a  host  of  poems,  letters,  and 
travels.  As  a  poet,  his  name,  like  the 
names  of  Jla-rias  and  Bavins  among  the 
Eomans,  is  proverbial  for  vileness.  Dry- 
den  says  he — 

"Reigned  without  dispute 
Through  all  the  realms  of  nonsense  alisolnte." 
Prpden :  Macflecknoe, 


Fledgeby  (2  syl.).  An  overreaching, 
cowardly  sneak,  who  conceals  his  dirty 
bill-broking  under  the  trade  name  of 
Pubsey  &  Co.  He  is  soundly  thrashed 
by  Alfred  Lammle,  and  quietly  pockets 
the  aftVout.     {lUvkins  :  Mataat  Friend.) 

Flee  the  Falcon  {To).  To  let  fly 
the  small  cannon. 

"'  I'll  llee  tlie  falcon'  (so  the  small  cannon  was 
called)  '  ril  tlee  the  falcon  .  .  .  my  certie,  she'll 
ruHle  their  feathers  for  them'"  [i.e.  the  insur- 
gents].—*'(>  W.  Scutt :  Old  Mortality,  chap.  xxv. 

Fleeced  (1  syl.).  Cheated  of  one's 
money  ;  sheared  like  a  sheep. 

Fleet  Book  Evidence.  No  evidence 
at  all.  The  books  of  the  Old  Fleet 
pi^isou  are  not  admissible  as  evidence 
to  prove  a  marriage.  {IJ'harto/i  :  Law 
iJictionari/.) 

Fleet  Marriages.  Clandestine  mar- 
riages, at  one  time  performed  without 
banns  or  licence  by  needy  chaj)lai7is,  in 
Fleet  Prison,  London.  As  many  as  thirty 
marriages  a  day  were  sometimes  cele- 
brated in  this  disgraceful  manner  ;  and 
Malcolm  tells  us  that  2,9o-l  were  regis- 
tered in  the  four  mouths  ending  with 
February  12th,  1705.  Suppressed  by  the 
MaiTiage  Act  in  17;)4.  (See  Chaplain  of 
the  Fleet,  by  Besaut  and  Rice. ) 

Fleet  Street  (London).  For  200 
years  after  the  Conquest  London  was 
watered  on  the  west  by  "the  river  of 
Wells,"  afterwards  called  "Fleet  dyke, 
becau.se  (Stowe  says)  it  runneth  jiast  the 
Fleete."  In  the  middle  of  the  city  and 
falling  iuto  the  Thames  was  Wellbrooke  ; 
on  the  east  side,  Langboume ;  and  iu 
the  western  suburbs,  Oldbourne.  Along 
the  Fleete  and  Oldbourne  "  ships  " 
used  to  ply  with  merchandise.  These 
four,  together  with  the  Roding,  the 
Lea,  the  Ravensbom'ne,  and  the  Wandle, 
now  serve  as  sewers  to  the  gi'eat  me- 
tropolis. 

Fleet  of  the  Desert.     A  caravan. 

Flemish  Account.  A  sum  less  than 
that  expected.  In  Antwerp  accounts 
were  kept  in  lirrcs,  sols,  and  pence; 
but  the  Here  or  pound  wns  only  r2s. 
In  Xotcs  and  Queries  we  have  an  example 
of  a  Flemish  account,  where  £373  Flem- 
ish becomes  £213  2s.  lOd.  Enghsh. 

Flemish  SchooL  A  school  of  paint- 
ing established  by  the  brothers  Van 
Eyck,  in  the  fifteenth  century.  The 
chief  early  masters  were  Memling, 
Weyden,  Matsys,  Mabus,  and  Moro.  Of 
the  second  period,  Rubens  and  Vandyck, 
Snyders,  Jordaens,  Gaspar  de  Grayer, 
and  the  youuger  Teniers. 


Flesli  and  Blood 


470 


Flins 


Flesh  and  Blood.  Human  nature  ; 
as  "Flesh  aud  blood  cannot  stand  it." 

Flesh-pots.  S'n/hingfor  the Jlcsh- pots 
of  Egijpt.  Hankering  for  good  things 
no  longer  at  your  command.  The  chil- 
dren of  Israel  said  they  wished  they  had 
died  "when  they  .sat  by  the  flesh-pots 
of  Egypt"  (Exodus  xvi.  3) — i.e.  when 
they  sat  watching  the  boilers  which 
contained  the  meat  they  were  to  have 
for  dinner.  The  expression  also  means 
abundance  of  appetising  food. 

Fleshed.  lie  fcahed  his  sword.  Used 
it  for  the  first  time.  ^Fen  fleshed  in 
crue/ti/ — i.e.  initiated  or  used  to  it.  A 
sportsman's  expression.  When  a  sports- 
man wishes  to  encourage  a  young  dog  or 
hawk,  he  will  allow  it  to  have  the  first 
game  it  catches  for  its  own  eating.  This 
"  flesh "  is  the  first  it  has  tasted,  and 
fleshing  its  tooth  thus  gives  the  creature 
a  craving  for  similar  food.  Hence,  also, 
to  eat  with  avidity. 

"  Tlio  wild  dog 
Shall  flesli  his  tooth  on  every  iuuooent." 
',  Shakespeare :  '1  Henry  IV. ^  iv.  5. 

Fleshly  School  {The).  A  class  of 
"realistic"  British  poets,  such  as  Swin- 
burne, Rossetti,  Morris,  etc.  So  called 
by  Thomas  Maitland  \ll.  Buchanrnfl  in 
the  Cojitcmporary  Review. 

Fle'ta.  An  excellent  treatise  on  the 
common  law  of  England,  written  in 
the  fourteenth  century  by  an  unknown 
"writer  while  a  prisoner  in  the  Elect. 

Fleur-de-Luce.  A  cor- 
ruption of  Fleur-de-Lis.  (-SVr 
Flag.)  In  Italian  the  white 
iris  is  called  flordilisa.  Made 
thus, 

"  They  may  cive  the  dozen  white  luces  in  their 
cos,X,."—Shakefpeuye:  Merry  ll'u'es,  i.  1. 

Fleurs-de-Lys.  In  the  reign  of  Louis 
VII.  (1137-1180)  the  national  standard 
was  thickly  charged  with  flowers.  In 
136.5  the  number  was  reduced  by 
Charles  VI.  to  three  (the  mystical  church 
number).  Guillim,  in  his  iJisplay  \of 
Seraldrie,  1611,  saj^s  the  device  is 
"  Three  toads  erect,  saltant ;  " 
in  allusion  to  wliich  Xostrada'- 
mus,  in  the  sixteenth  century, 
calls  Frenchmen  erapauds 
(toads).  Recently  it  has  been 
thought  that  the  device  is  really  a  "  bee 
flying,"  because  certain  ornaments  re- 
sembling bees  were  found  in  the  tomb 
of  Childeric,  father  of  Clovis,  when  it 
was  opened  in  1653.  These  bees  are 
now  generally  believed  to  be  the  fleurons 
of  horse-trappings,  and  quite  independent 
of  the  emblem. 


The  flciir-d/;-hjs  or  lily-flower  was 
chosen  by  Flavio  Gio'ja  to  mark  the 
north  point  of  the  compass,  out  of  com- 
liliment  to  the  King  of  Naples,  who  was 
of  French  descent  (1302). 

Flibbertigibbet.      One  of  the  five 

fiends  that  possessed  "poor  Tom." 
Shakespeare  got  it  from  Bishop  Harsnet's 
account  of  the  Spanish  invasion,  where 
we  are  told  of  forty  fiends  which  the 
Jesuits  cast  out,  and  among  the  number 
was  Fliberdigibet.  Shakes])eare  saj's  he 
"  is  the  fiend  of  mopping  and  mowing, 
who  possesses  chambermaids  and  waiting 
women"  {King  Lear,  iv.  2).  And, 
again,  that  he  "  begins  at  curfew  and 
AvaUcs  till  the  first  cock,"  giving  men 
pins  and  needles,  squint  ej-es,  hare-lips, 
and  so  on.     {Shakespeare  :  Lear,  iii.  4.) 

Flic  (French).  A  policeman  or  ser- 
geant de  rille.  "  Une  allusion  a  I'epee 
des  scrgents  de  rille,  on  pliitot  ai/.rfl('ehes 
d^s  arehers  primitifs"  (Raillc).  Hence 
"  flic-flacs,"  thumps  and  thwacks. 

Flick.  To  strike  with  a  quick  jerk. 
To  "  flick  a  whip  in  one's  face  "  is  to 
strike  the  face  "with  the  lash  and  draw 
the  tt'hip  suddenly  back  again.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  j'/zVerrirtH  ;  Scotch,  _/'(V/iY/-y  1)11- 
msh,fli/ch-ercn,  to  twinkle,  etc.) 

Flies.    {Sec  Fly.) 

Fling. 

/  must  have  a  fling  at  .  .  .  Throw  a 
stone  at  something.  To  attack  with 
words,  especially  sarcastically.  '  To 
make  a  haphazard  venture.  Allusion  is 
to  hurling  stones  from  slings. 

To  have  his  fling.  To  live  on  the  loose 
for  a  time.  To  fling  about  his  time  aud 
money  like  "  ducks  and  drakes." 

"If  he  is  youn^,  he  desires  to  have  ....  his 
'flinff'  Ijefore  he  is  compelled  to  settle  down."— 
Nineteenth  Century  (February,  ](«2,  p.  L'Os). 

Fling  Herself  at  my  Head  {To). 
To  make  desjierate  love  to  a  man ;  to 
angle  obviously  to  catch  a  certain  indi- 
vidual for  a  husband. 

"  '  Coxcomli  ? '  said  Lance  ;  '  why,  'twas  lint  last 
nicht  the  whole  family  saw  her  ....  flinw  her- 
self at  my  head.""— .Sir  IK.  Scott:  Peveril  of  the 
Peak,  chap.  vii. 

Flins  [a  stone].  An  idol  of  the  an- 
cient Vandals  settled  in  Lusace.  It  wa-s 
a  huge  stone,  draped,  wearing  a  lion's 
skin  over  its  shouldei"S,  and  designed  to 
represent  death.  Mr.  Lower  says  that 
the  to'mi  of  Flint  in  North  Wales  is 
named  in  honour  of  this  stone  deity,  and 
gives  Al"svin  Flint  in  Suffolk  as  another 
example.     {Fat.  Brit.) 

The  Welsh  call  Flint  Flint  Teg-cwgl 
(Flin's  beautiful  band  or  girdle). 


Flint 


471 


Flora's  Dial 


Flint.  To  skin  a  flint.  To  act 
meauly,  aud  exact  the  uttennost farthing. 

Flint  Im'plements.  Arrow-heads, 
axe-heads,  lauce-heads,  and  knives,  made 
of  granite,  jade,  serpentine,  jasper,  ba- 
salt, and  otiier  hard  stones.  The  first 
were  discovered  on  the  hanks  of  the 
Somme,  near  Amiens  and  Abbeville,  but 
others  have  been  discovered  in  Belgium, 
Germany,  Italy,  etc.  They  were  the 
rude  instruments  of  men  before  the  use 
of  metal  was  known. 

Flint  Jack.  Edward  Simpson,  an 
occasional  servant  of  Dr.  Young,  of 
Whitby.  So  called  because  he  used  to 
tramp  the  kingdom  vending  spurious 
fossils,  flint  arrow-heads,  stone  celts,  and 
other  imitation  antiquities.  Professor 
Tennant  charged  him  with  forging  these 
wares,  and  in  1867  he  was  sent  to  prison 
for  theft. 

Flipper.  Tip  ns  ifoin- flijjpir.  Give 
me  j-our  hand.  A  flipper  is  the  paddle 
of  a  turtle. 

Flirt.  A  coquette.  The  word  is 
from  the  verb  flirt,  as,  "  to  flirt  a 
fan."  The  fan  being  used  for  coquet- 
ting, those  who  coquetted  were  called 
fan-flirts.  Lady  Frances  Shirley,  the 
favourite  of  Lord  Chesterfield,  intro- 
duced the  word.  Flirt  is  allied  to 
fliaU'r,flit,jrrl;  etc. 

Flittermouse.  A  bat.  South  calls 
the  bat  a  jH/idfr-nionsc.  (German,  Jledcr- 
inans.) 

Flo  (Old  French).  A  crowd.  (Latin, 
Jlitctns.) 

"  Puis  lor  tramist  par  liuiz  om  erz 
Cirand  flo  d'Anplois  de  fer  cmiverz  " 

GiiiHaume  Guiait,  verse  1092. 

Floated  (Stock  Exchange  term). 
Brought  out  (said  of  a  loan  or  company), 
as  the  Turkish  '69  Loan  was  floated  by 
the  Cohens.  The  French  6  per  cent, 
was  floated  by  the  Morgans. 

Floaters  (Stock  Exchange  term). 
Exchequer  bills  and  other  unfunded 
stock.    {'See  Stock  Exchaxge  Slaxg.) 

Floating  Academy  {T/ic).  The 
hulks. 

Flogging  the  Dead  Horse.  Trjing 
to  revive  an  interest  in  a  sidiject  out 
of  date.  Bright  said  that  Earl  Russell's 
"Reform  Bill"  was  a  "dead  horse," 
and  everj'  attempt  to  create  any  enthu- 
siasm in  its  favour  was  like  "flogging 
the  dead  horse." 

Flogged  by  Deputy.  When  Henri 
IV.  of  France  abjured  Protestantism  and 


was  received  into  the  Catholic  Church, 
in  1595,  two  ambassadors  were  sent  to 
Rome  who  knelt  in  the  portico  of  St. 
Peter,  and  sang  the  Miserere.  At  each 
verse  a  blow  with  a  switch  was  given  on 
their  shoulders. 

•."  strange  as  this  may  seem,  yet  numerous  ex- 
amples occur  in  the  Scriptures  ;  thus,  for  David's 
sin  thousands  of  his  subjects  were  "  Hotfaed  to 
death  by  deputy  ;"  and  what  else  is  meant  by  the 
words  "  by  his  stripes  we  are  healed"  ? 

Flood.  The  almost  universal  tradition 
of  the  East  respecting  this  catastrophe  is 
that  the  waters  were  boiling  hot.  i^Sce 
the  Talmud,  the  Tarr/ums,  the  Koran, 
etc.) 

Floor.  I  floored  /li  in.  Knocked  him 
down  on  the  floor  ;  hence,  to  overcome, 
beat  or  surpass.  Thus,  we  say  at  the 
university,  "I  floored  that  i)a])er,"  i.e. 
answered  every  question  on  it.  "I 
floored  that  problem  " — did  it  perfectly, 
or  made  myself  master  of  it. 

Floorer.  T/iat  icas  a  fl.oorcr.  That 
])low  knocked  the  man  down  on  the 
floor.  In  the  university  we  say,  "That 
paper  or  question  was  a  floorer ; "  mean- 
ing it  was  too  hard  to  be  mastered.  {See 
abore.) 

Flora.  Flowers  ;  all  the  vegetable 
productions  of  a  country  or  of  a  geo- 
logical period,  as  the  flora  of  England, 
the  flora  of  the  coal  period.  Flora  was 
the  Roman  goddess  of  flowers. 

"  Another  Flora  there,  of  boUler  hues, 
An<l  richer  sweets  bey(jnd  our^'arden's  pride." 
'niomson:  Samnicr. 

The  animals  of  a  period  or  country 
are  called  the  Fauna  ;  hence,  the  phrase 
the  Flora  and  the  Fauna  of  ...  . 
signifies  all  its  vegetable  and  animal 
productions. 

Metropolis  of  Flora.  Aranjucz,  in 
Spain,  is  so  called,  from  its  many  beau- 
tiful gardens. 

Flora's  Dial.  A  dial  formed  by 
flowers  which  open  or  close  at  stated 
hours. 

I.  Dial  of  flowers  which  open^ 
(a)  The  first  twelve  hom's. 

A.M.  OPENS. 

1.  (Scandinavian  Soicthistle  clones.') 

•J.    Yellow  Goat's-beard. 

.3.    Conimon  Ox-tongue. 

■1.    Hawkweeii  :  Late-flowcrinj;  Dandelion  ;aud 

Wild  Succory. 
5.    White  Water-lily  ;    Naked-stalked    Poppy  ; 

and  Smooth  Sovvthistli'. 
fi.    Shrubliy  Hawkweed  and  Spotted  Cat's-ears. 
7.    White  Water-lily  ;   Garden  Lettuce  ;    and 

African  Marigold. 
,«.    Scarlet  Pimpernel  ;   Mouse-ear  Hawkweed  ; 

and  Proliferous  Pink. 
(1.    Field  Marigold. 

10.  Red  .Sandwort. 

11.  Star  of  Bethlehem. 
^'oou.    Ice  Plant, 


Florence 


472 


Florizel 


(h)  The  second  twelve  hours. 

r.M.  OI'ESS. 

I.    t'lnumon  Pui'slane. 

(Purple  Sandwort  closes.') 
?,.  (liandelion  closes.') 

4.  (  White  fipiderwurt  closes.) 

:,.     .llllap. 

fi.  Dark  Crane' s-hill. 

7.  (Niih(:d-.^tallcnd  Poppi/  clo.ics.) 

8.  (.Uranrje  Day-lily  closes.) 
H.  f'iicius  (jj'untia. 

10.  I'urple  bindweed. 

11.  Nifrlit-Moiiniinn;  Catcli-fl.v. 
Midniflit-    {Late-flower 'mg  Dandelion  closes.) 

II.    Dial  of  closing  flowers^ 

(a)  The  first  twelve  hours. 

A.M.  fl.oSKS. 

1.    Scandinavi.in  Sowthistle. 

•J.  O'elloic  (ionff-hiitnl  njiens.) 

3.  (Coiinmoi  (ht,ni<iur  opens). 

4.  (Wild  Siirmrii  "j.riis.) 

5.  (S(  rn-al  Soirth  /.-//-  .s-  oprn.) 

6.  (Spniteil  Cat'.-<-far  opens.) 

7.  Night-tidweiini;  (atch-lly. 

8.  EvoniiiL'  Priniripse. 
!'.    Piirple  Bindweed. 

10.  Yellow  Goat's-lieavd. 

11.  Betlilelieni  Star  (la  dame  d'on:c  heiircs). 
Kooii.    Field  Sowtliistle. 

{/>)  The  second  twelve  hours. 

r.M.  d.O.'^FS. 

1.  Red  (11-  Proliferous  Pink. 

•J.  PuriileSimdworr. 

.■!.  Dnnilelion  or  Field  Marif-'nld. 

4.  While  Sliadewort  and  Field  Biudwurt. 

5.  Common  Cat's-ears. 

6.  White  Water-lil.v. 

7.  Naked-stalked  Popr.v. 

s.  Orani-'e  Day-lilv  and  Wild  Snccoiy. 

<i.  Convid\  iilns  I.inna'ns  aiidChickweed. 

10.  Common  Xii>i'lo-wort. 

11.  SnioDth  Sowtliistle. 

Midni'-rht.    Creeping  Mallow  and  Late  Dandelion. 

Florence  {T/ie  German).    Dre.sden. 

Florentine  Diamond  {The).  The 
fourth  in  size  of  cut  diamonds.  It  weighs 
1395  carats,  belonged  to  Charles,  Duke 
of  Burgundy  ;  was  picked  up  by  a 
peasant  and  sold  for  half-a-crown. 

Floren'tius.  A  knight  who  bound 
himself  to  marry  a  "  foul  and  ugly 
witch,"  if  she  would  teach  him  the  solu- 
tion of  a  riddle  on  which  his  life  depended. 
(O'oircr :  Coiifissio  uLmaniis.) 

Flor'ian  {St.).  Patron  saint  of  mer- 
cers, being  himself  of  the  same  craft. 

Floria'ni.  A  sect  of  heretics  of  the 
second  century  who  maintained  that 
God  is  the  author  of  evil,  and  taught 
the  Gnostic  doctrine  of  two  princij^les. 
Floria'nus  was  their  founder. 

Florid  Architecture.  The  latter 
divi.sion  of  tlie  perpendicular  style,  often 
called  the  Tudor,  remarkable  for  its 
florid  character  or  profusion  of  orna- 
ment. 

Florida  (U.  S.  America).  In  1712 
Ponce  de  Leon  sailed  from  France  to  the 
West  in  search  of  "  the  Fountain  of 
Youth."    He  first  saw  land  on  Easter 


Day,  and  on  account  of  the  richness  and 
quantity  of  flowers,  called  the  new  pos- 
session "  Florida." 

Flor'imel  [/ioi/ri/-flou-fr].  A  damsel 
of  great  beauty,  but  so  timid  that  she 
feared  the  "  smallest  monstrous  mouse 
that  creeps  on  floor,"  and  was  abused  by 
everyone.  Her  fomi  was  simulated  by 
a  witch  out  of  wax,  but  the  wax  image 
melted,  leaving  nothing  beliind  cxcejit 
the  girdle  that  was  round  the  waist. 
(Spi')iscr :  Fairic  Qiteoie,  book  iii.  4,  8; 
iv.  11,  12.) 

"Florimel  loved  Mar'incl,  Imt  Proteus  cast  Iier 
into  a  dunireou,  from  which,  lieini;  released  liy 
the  order  of  Neptune,  she  niarrieil  the  man  of  her 
choice." — Spenser :  Faerie  (Jaeene,  book  iv. 

"St.  Amand  had  lone  since  in  Mtterness  re- 
pented of  a  transient  infatuation,  had  huiK  sinco 
distiiiL'uished  the  true  Florimel  from  the  false." 
—Sir  E.  JJ.  Lijtton  :  ni-jrivis  of  the  Rhine,  iii. 

Florimel's  Girdle  gave  to  those  who 
could  wear  it  "  tlic  virtue  of  chaste  love 
and  wifehood  true  ;  "  but  if  any  woman 
not  chaste  and  faithful  put  it  on,  it 
"  loosed  or  tore  asunder."  It  was  once 
the  cestus  of  Venus,  made  by  her  hus- 
band Vulcan :  but  when  she  wantoned 
with  Mars  it  fell  off,  and  was  left  on  the 
"  Acida'lian  mount."  {Spenser:  I'dtrlc 
Qiievne,  book  iv.  II,  12.) 

Florin.  An  English  coin  representing 
2s.,  or  the  tenth  of  a  sovereign,  issued 
in  1840.  Camden  informs  us  that  Ed- 
ward III.  issued  gold  florins  wortli  Gs. , 
in  1337.  The  word  is  generally  sup- 
posed to  be  derived  from  Florence  ;  but 
as  it  had  a  lily  on  one  side,  probably  it 
is  connected  with  theLatiny/t/.v,  a  flower. 
{Sec  Geaceless  Floein.) 

Florisan'do.  One  of  the  knights  in 
the  Sj'i^uish  version  of  A  in' ad  is  of  Gaul, 
whose  exploits  and  adventures  are  re- 
counted in  the  6th  and  following  books. 
This  part  of  the  romance  was  added  by 
Pacz  de  Ribe'ra. 

Flor'isel  of  Nice'a.  A  knight  whose 
exploits  and  adventures  fonn  a  supi)le- 
mental  part  of  the  Spanish  version  of 
Ain'adis  of  Gaul.  This  part  was  added 
by  FeUcia'no  de  Silva. 

Flor'ismart.  One  of  Charlemagne's 
paladins,  and  the  bosom  friend  of  Roland. 

Flor'izel.  Prince  of  Bohemia,  in  love 
with  Per'dita.  {Shakespeare:  Winter's 
Tate.) 

Florizel.  George  the  Fourth,  when 
prince,  corresponded  under  this  name 
with  Mrs.  Robinson,  actress  and  poet, 
generally  known  as  Perdita,  that  being 
the  character  in  which  she  first  attracted 
the  prince's  attention, 


Flotsam  and  Jetson 


473 


Flowered  Robes 


Frince  Florizel,  in  Lord  Beaconsfield's 
novel  of  Endymion  (1880),  is  meant  for 
Napoleon  III. 

Flotsam  and  Jetson.  Waifs  found 
in  the  sea  or  ou  the  shore.  "  Flotsam," 
goods  found  jloatuKj  on  the  sea  after  a 
a  wreck.  "Jetson,"  or  Jetsam,  things 
thrown  out  of  a  ship  to  lighten  it.  (An- 
glo-Saxon,//o(fff«,  to  float ;  French,  yc^n', 
to  tluow  out.)      {8cc  LiGAN.) 

Flower  Games.  Fetes  held  at 
Toulouse,  Barcelona,  Treviso,  and  other 
places,  where  the  prizes  given  consisted 
of  flowers. 

FloAver  Sermon.  A  sermon  preached 
on  Whit  Monday  in  St.  Catherine  Cree, 
when  all  the  congregation  wear  flowers. 

Flower  sermons  are  now  (1894) 
preached  very  generally  once  a  year, 
especially  in  country  churches.  Every 
person  is  supposed  to  bring  a  bunch  of 
flowers  to  the  altar,  and  the  flowers  next 
day  are  sent  to  some  hosjiital. 

Flower    of     Chivalry.      A    name 

given  to  several  cavaliers  :  ej/. 

William  Douglas,  Lord  of  Liddesdale, 
in  the  fourteenth  century. 

Sir  Philip  Sidney  (15o4-1586). 

Chevalier  de  Bayard  (Ir  chevalier  sans 
pciir  et  sans  reproc/te)  (l476-lo24). 

Flower  of  Kings.  Arthur  is  so 
called  by  John  of  Exeter.  (Sixth  cen- 
tury.) 

Flower  of  Paradise.  Tlie  Ipomcea 
or  Camala'ta,  called  by  Sir  W.  Jones 
"Love's  creeper."  It  symbolises  tliat 
mythological  jjlant  wliicli  fulfils  all 
desire. 

Flower  of  the  Levant.  Zante, 
noted  for  its  beauty  and  fertility.  "  Zau- 
te  !  Zante,  flos  di  Levanti." 

Flowers  and  Trees. 

(1)  Dedicated  to  heathen  gods  : 
Tlie  INiriiel  clien-y-tree  to  Aiinlla 

„   t'yiiress  „  IMuto. 

„    Dittany  „  The  Moiin. 

„   Laurel  „  Ajiollo. 

„   Lily  „  Juno. 

„   Maitlen's-bair  „  I'luto. 

„   Myrtle  „  Venus. 

„  Narcissus  ,,  Ceres. 

„   Oak  „  Jupiter. 

„   Olive  „  Mnierva. 

„    I'opliy  „  Ceres. 

„   Vine  „  BaccLius. 

(2)  Dedicated  to  saints  ; 

Canterbury  Bells  to  St.AuKustine  of  Eualand. 

Crocus  „  St.  Valentine. 

Crowu  Imperial  „  Edward  the  Confessor. 

Daisy  ,.  St.  Margaret. 

Herb  Christophe  „  St.  Christopher. 

Lady's-smock  „  The  Virgin  Marv. 

Rose  „  Mary  Magdalene. 

St.  John's-wort  „  St.  John. 

St.  Baruaby's  Thistle  „  St.  Barnabas, 


(3)  National  emblems  : 
Leek  emblem  of  Wales. 
LUy  (.Fleiir-de-lys)        „         France. 

„    {fiiiilio  bianco)     „         Florence. 

„    white  „        the  Uhibellino  badge. 

).    red  „        biulgeof  theUuelphs. 

Linden  „         I'russia. 

Mignonette  „         Saxony. 

Pomegranate  „        Spain. 

Rose  „        England. 

„    red,  Lancastrians  ;  white.  Yorkists. 
Shamrock  emblem  of  Ireland. 

Thistle  „        Scotland. 

Violet  „         Athens  and  Napoleo 

Sugar  JIaple  „         Canada.. 

(4)  Symbols: 

Box  is  a  symbol  of  the  resurrection. 

Cedars  „             the  faithful. 

Corn-ears  „             the  Holy  Coiiununion. 

Dates  „              the  fail h till. 

Crrapes  „             this  is  uiv  blood. 

Holly  „              the  n'siirri'i'Moii. 

Ivy  ,,              the  resurrectiou. 

Lily  „             purity 

Olive  „             peace. 

Orange-blossom      „  virginity. 

Palm  ,.             victory. 

Rose  „             iii('oiriipti[)n. 

Vine  „             Christ  our  Life. 

Yew  „             death. 

N.B.— The  laurel,  oak,  olive,  myrtle,  roseui:iry, 
cypress,  and  amaranth  are  all  fiunTeal  plaiils. 

Flowers  and  Trees  with  Christian 
Traditions. 

The  Aspen   leaf   is   said    to    tremble 
because  the  cross  was  made  of  Aspen - 
wood. 
Ah  !  tremble,  tremble,  Aspcn-tree, 
AVe  need  not  ask  thee  «iiv  thou  shakcst, 
For  if,  as  holy  IcLrmd  s;iitli, 
On  thee  the  Sa\  iuiir  l)led  to  death, 
No  wonder,  Aspen,  that  thou  ((iiakest ; 
And,  till  in  judgment  all  assemble. 
Thy  leaves  accursed  shall  wail  and  tremble. 

E.  a  IS. 

The  dwarf  elder  is  called  in  Wales 
"  the  plant  of  the  Blood  of  Man." 

The  vaUfioicer  is  known  in  Palestine 
as  the  "  Blood-drops  of  Christ." 

Tlie  following  are  also   said  to  owe 
their  stained  blossoms  to  the  blood  which 
trickled  from  the  ci'oss  : — 
The  red  anemone  ;  the  arum  ;  the  purple 
orchis  ;   the  crimson- spotted  leaves 
of  the  roodsclken  (a  French  tradi- 
tion) ;  the  spotted  pcrsiearia,  snake- 
weed. (See  CiiEiSTiAX  Traditions.) 

Flowers  at  Funerals.  The  Greeks 
crowned  the  dead  body  with  flowers,  and 
placed  flowers  on  the  tomb  also.  The 
Romans  decked  the  funeral  couch  with 
leaves  and  flowers,  and  sj^read  flowers, 
wreaths,  and  fillets  on  the  tomb  of 
friends.  When  Sulla  was  buried  as 
many  as  2,000  wreaths  were  sent  in  his 
honour.  Most  of  our  funeral  customs 
are  derived  from  the  Romans ;  as  dressing 
in  black,  walking  in  procession,  carrying 
insignia  on  the  bier,  raising  a  mound 
over  the  grave,  called  titinii/us,  v/hence 
our  tomb. 

Flowered  Robes.  In  ancient  Greece 
to  say  "a  woman  wore  flowered  robes  " 


Flowing 


474 


Fly 


was  to  imply  that  she  was  a,fiUc  puhliquf. 
Solon  made  it  a  law  that  vii'tuous  womeu 
should  appear  in  simple  and  modest 
apparel,  but  that  harlots  should  always 
dress  in  flashy  or  flowered  robes. 

"  As  fugitive  slaves  are  known  by  tlieir  stis- 
mata,  so  Hciwercil  ganiieiits  indicate  one  of  the 
tlemi-niuude  [tj.oix6.\i.ha\."— Clemens  of  Akxaii- 
Uiia. 

Flowing  Philosophers.  The  fol- 
lowers of  Heraclltos,  referred  to  by  Plato 
as  Tous  pe'oi'Tas  (T/icd'tetiis,  181  A).  Hera- 
clitos  denied  the  permanency  of  every- 
thing in  nature  except  change.  Tenny- 
son has  a  poem  entitled  'Oi  pcoi-Te?, 

Fluellen.  A  Welsh  captain  and 
great  pedant,  who,  amongst  other  learned 
quiddities,  attempted  to  draw  a  parallel 
between  Henry  V.  and  Alexander  the 
Great ;  but  when  he  had  said  that  one 
was  boni  at  ]Moninouth  and  the  other  at 
Macedon,  both  beginning  with  the  same 
letter,  and  that  there  was  a  river  in  both 
cities,  he  had  exhausted  his  best  paral- 
lelisms.    {Henry  V.,  iv.  7.) 

"  His  parallel  is,  in  all  essential  circnnisfances, 
as  Incorrect  as  that  which  Flncllen  drew  ]pet  ween 
JIacedon  and  Monmouth."— iurrf  Mocaiilini. 

Fluke.  Hai3 -hazard.  In  billiards  it 
means  plaj'ing  for  one  thing  and  getting 
another.  Hence  an  advantage  gained 
by  luck  more  than  by  skill  or  judgment. 
(German,  {/luck,  chance,  our  Inck.) 

"  We  seem  to  have  discovered,  as  it  were  by  a 
fluke,  a  most  excellent  rule  for  all  future  Cabinet 
arrangements."— Tftc  Times. 

Flummery.  Flattering  nonsense, 
palaver.  In  Wales  it  is  a  food  made  of 
oatmeal  steei^ed  in  water  and  kejjt  till  it 
has  become  sour.  In  Cheshire  and 
Lancashii-e  it  is  the  prepared  skin  of 
oatmeal  mixed  with  honey,  ale,  or 
milk  ;  pap  ;  blanc  -  mange.  (Welsh, 
llymry,  wash-brew,  from  llym,  sour  or 
sharp.) 

"  You  came  . . .  with  your  red  coats  andflasliintr 
b\ittoiis  .  .  .  and  her  head  wot  turned  with  your 
flummery."— A'iiiiHis  ;   The  Partizans,  chap.  xxi.\-. 

Flummux  (To).  To  bamboozle;  to 
deceive  ;  to  be  in  a  quandary.  "  I  am 
regularly  flummuxed" — i.e.  perplexed. 
The  first  syllable  is  probably  a  variant 
of  rtam,  humbug,  deception,  and  the 
word  seems  to  be  compounded  on  the 
model  of  the  word  "  perplex." 

"  Kor  the  privates,  the  serneants,  and  "speetors, 
She  flunimnxed  them  all  to  a  coon." 

aims :  Diigvnct  Ballads  (.Moll  Jarvis). 

Flummuxed.  Tlie  mark  ©  set  on  a 
street,  gatepost,  house,  etc.,  as  a  warn- 
ing to  fellow-vagabonds  not  to  go  near, 
for  fear  of  being  given  in  charge. 

Flunkey.  A  Hvery  servant.  (Old 
Tiench,  fl(t>iq7(ie);  a  henchman.) 


Flur.      The    bride    of    Cas'sivelaun, 

"  for  whose  love  the  Roman  Caesar  first 
invaded  Britain."     (Teiuiyson  :  Enid.) 

Flush  {A),  in  cards,  means  a  whole 
hand  of  one  suit,  as  a  "flush  of  clubs," 
a  "flush  of  hearts,"  etc.     {See  below.) 

Flush  of  Money.  Full  of  money. 
Similarly  A  liush  of  ivater  means  a 
sudden  and  full  flow  of  water.  (Latin, 
flnx-tis.) 

"  .strut  was  not  verv  flush  in  [the]  ready."— ZJr. 
Ai-huthnot. 

Flute.  The  Jfayic  Flute,  an  opera  by 
Mozart  {Die  Zaubcrflote).  The  "flute" 
was  bestowed  by  the  powers  of  dark- 
ness, and  had  the  power  of  inspiring 
love.  Unless  purified  the  love  was  only 
lust,  but,  being  purified  by  the  Powers 
of  Light,  it  subserved  the  holiest  pur- 
poses. Tamiuo  and  Pamiua  are  guided 
by  it  through  all  worldly  dangers  to  tho 
knowledge  of  Divine  Truth. 

Flutter.  A  very  weak  sf)ecinicu  of  a 
fop,  in  the  l]ello''s  tHralayem,  by  Mrs. 
Cowley. 

Flutter  the  Dovecotes  {To).  To 
disturb  the  equanimity  of  a  society.  The 
phrase  occurs  in  L'oriolanus. 

"  The  inu>ortant  movement  in  favour  of  a  gene- 
ral school  of  law  tlutten'd  the  dovecotes  of  the 
Inns' of  Court."— *Viiif(ff»;/t  Century  (Nov.,  IHX', 
p.  77;.>. 

Fly  (plural  ./7ys).  A  hackney  coach, 
a  cab.  A  contraction  of  Fly-by-niyht, 
as  sedan  chairs  on  wheels  used  to  be 
called  in  the  regency.  These  "Flj--by- 
nights,"  patronised  greatly  by  George, 
Prince  of  Wales,  and  his  boon  com- 
panions, during  their  wild  night  pranks 
at  Brighton,  were  invented  1809  by  John 
Butcher,  a  cai-peuter  of  Jew  Street. 

"  In  the  morning  we  took  a  fl.v,  an  En.glish  term 
for  an  exceedinsly  sluirgisli  vehicle,  and  ilrove  up 
to  the  Minister's."  — //((irtZiorHi:  Uur  Utd  lluui^e 
(Pilgrimage  to  Old  Boston,  p.  17i;. 

Fly  (plural ^iVs) .  An  insect.  All  flies 
shall  perish  except  one,  and  that  is  the 
bee-fly.     {Koran.) 

A  Fly  has  three  eyes  and  two  com- 
pound eyes,  each  of  which  has  4,000 
facets. 

The  yod  of  Jl'xes.  In  the  temple  of 
Actium  the  Greeks  used  to  sacrifice  an- 
nually an  ox  to  the  god  of  flies.  Pliny 
tells  lis  that  at  Rome  sacrifice  was  oft'cred 
to  flies  in  the  temple  of  Hercules  Victor. 
The  Syrians  undoubtedly  offered  sacri- 
fice to  the  same  tiny  tormentors.  It  is 
said  that  no  fly  was  ever  seen  iu  Solo- 
mon's temple. 

AcHOR.  god  of  the  Cyrenians,  to  whom,accordin5 
to  Plin.v,  tliey  offered  sacriflce. 


Fly-boy 


475 


Fo-hi 


AroMYios,  a  surname  priveu  1iy  the  Cyrcnians  to 
Zeus,  for  deliverinf,'  Hcrakles  [Hercules]  from 
flies  during'  sacritice.  Sacritlces  were  yearly 
offered  to  Zeus  Apumyios.  (Greek,  «/;o-)Hi/ia, 
froui  flies.; 

BEi.zEiiUB,  (jr  Beelzebuth  (Prince  of  Flies),  was 
one  of  the  principal  Syrian  gods,  to  whom 
sacriflco  was  offered  on  all  ferialia. 

BtCLOPUS,  iu  Roman  mythology.    (Rliod.  xxii.  .■).) 

M  yAGKOS  (the  fly-chaser),  one  of  the  deities  of  the 
Arcadians  and  Eleaus.  (Pliny,  x.'M.)  (Greek, 
myia,atli\\agra,  taken  in  hunting  or  chasing.) 

Fties  ill  amber.     (Sec  under  Ambee.) 

2'o  crush  a  flij  on  a  wheel.  Making  a 
mountain  of  a  mole-hill.  Taking  a  wheel 
used  for  torturing  criminals  and  heretics 
for  killing  a  fly,  which  one  might  destroy 
with  a  flapper. 

Fly  on  the  conch-wheel  (A).  One  who 
fancies  himself  of  mighty  importance, 
but  who  is  in  reality  of  none  at  all.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  fable  of  a  fly  sitting  on 
a  chariot- wheel  and  saying,  "  See  what 
a  dust  we  make !  " 

Kot  a  flij  with  him.  Domitian,  the 
Roman  emperor,  was  fond  of  catching 
flies,  and  one  of  his  slaves,  being  asked 
if  the  emperor  was  alone,  wittily  replied, 
"Not  a  fly  with  him." 

I  To  rise  to  thejlif.  To  be  taken  in  by 
a  hoax,  as  a  fish  rises  to  a  false  fly  and 
is  caught. 

"  He  [the  professor]  rose  to  the  fly  with  a  charm- 
ing simplicity."— (rront  Allen:  The  MysU:rwiis  Oc- 
currence in  Piccadilly,  part  ii. 

Fly-boy.  The  boy  iu  a  printing-office 
who  lifts  the  printed  sheets  off  the  press. 
He  is  called  the  fly-boy  because  he 
catches  the  .sheets  as  they  fly  from  the 
tym^mn  (q.c)  immediately  the  frisket 
(q.r.)  is  opened.  This  is  now  generally 
performed  by  the  pressmen. 

Fly  a  Kite  (To).  To  send  a  begging 
letter  to  persons  of  a  charitable  reputa- 
tion, or  m  easy  circimistances,  to  solicit 
pecuniary  aid,  urging  poverty,  losses,  or 
sickness  as  au  excuse.  (Sec  Kite-fly- 
ing.) 

Fly-by-night  (A).  One  who  defrauds 
his  creditors  by  decamj)iug  at  night- 
time.    (<Sce  Fly.) 

Fly  in  One's  Face  (To).  To  get 
into  a  passion  with  a  person  ;  to  insult ; 
as  a  hawk,  when  irritated,  flies  iu  the 
face  of  its  master. 

Fly  in  the  Face  of  Danger  (To). 

To  run  iu  a  foolhardy  manner  into 
danger,  as  a  heu  flies  iu  the  face  of  a 
dog  or  cat. 

Fly  in  the   Face   of  Providence 

(To).  To  act  rashly,  and  throw  away 
good  opportunities  ;  to  coiu't  danger. 

Fly  Open  (To).  To  open  suddenly, 
as,  "the  doors  flew  open,"  ^^  les  portcs 


s'ouvrirent"  as  they  do  sometimes  by 
the  force  of  the  wiucl. 

Fly  Out  at  (To).  To  burst  or  break 
into  a  passion.    The  Latin,  inrolo  in  .  .  . 

"Poor  choleric  Sir  Brian  would  fly  out  at  his 
coachman,  his  butler,  or  his  gamekeeper,  and  use 
language  .  .  .  which  .  .  .  from  any  other  master, 
would  have  brought  about  a  prompt  resignation. 
—Hood  ^Yords,  18a7. 

Flying  Colours  (To  come  off  with). 
In  triumph ;  with  the  flags  unfmled 
and  flying. 

Flying  Dutchman.  A  spectral  ship, 
seeu  in  stonny  weather  off  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  and  cousidered  ominous  of 
ill-luck.  Sir-  Walter  Scott  says  she  was 
originally  a  vessel  laden  with  jirecious 
metaL  but  a  horrible  miu'der  having 
been  committed  ou  board,  the  plague 
broke  out  among  the  crew,  and  no  port 
would  allow  the  vessel  to  enter.  The 
ill-fated  ship  still  wanders  about  like  a 
ghost,  doomed  to  be  sea-tossed,  but 
never  more  to  enjoy  rest.  Captain 
Marryat  has  a  novel  called  The  Thitnlom. 
Ship. 

Flying  without  Wings  (Xo).  No- 
thing cau  be  done  without  the  proper 
means. 

"  Sine  pennis  vola're  hand  facile  est."— riantiis. 

Flyman's  Plot  {The).  In  theatrical 
language,  means  a  list  of  all  the  articles 
required  by  the  flymau  iu  the  play  pro- 
duced. The  flyman  is  the  scene -shifter, 
or  the  "  man  iu  the  flies." 

Fog-eater.  A  white  bow  in  the 
clouds  during  foggy  weather  is  so  called. 
Such  a  bow  was  seen  in  England  dur- 
ing January,  1888.  A  week  preceding, 
the  weather  had  been  clear,  sunshiny, 
and  genial,  theu  followed  several  days 
of  thick  fog,  dui-ing  which  the  white 
bow  appeared.  The  bow  was  followed 
by  several  days  of  brilliant  mild  weather. 

Fogie  or  Fogey.  An  old  foycij.  Pro- 
perly an  old  military  pensioner.  This 
term  is  derived  from  the  old  pensioners 
of  Edinburgh  Castle,  whose  chief  occu- 
pation was  to  fii'e  the  guns,  or  as.sist  iu 
quelling  street  riots.  (Allied  to  J'vijn ', 
phogot,  voget,foffcd,fo(/de,  etc.) 

"What  has  the  world  conic  to  [said  Thackeray] 
.  .  when  two  broken-nosed  old  fogies  like  you 
and  me  sit  talking  aliout  love  to  each  other."— 
Trullope :  IK.  M.  Thuckeray,  chap.  i.  p.  61. 

Fo-hi  or  Foe.  One  of  the  chief  deities 
of  the  Chinese.  His  mother,  Moyi-,  was 
walking  one  day  along  a  river  bank, 
when  she  became  suddenly  encircled  by 
a  rainbow,  and  at  the  end  of  twelve 
years  was  the  mother  of  a  son.    During 


Foil 


476 


Fond 


gestation  she  dreamed  that  she  was  preg- 
nant with  a  white  elephant,  and  lieuce 
the  honours  paid  to  this  beast.  {Anialic 
Mesearckes.) 

FoiL  That  which  sets  off  something 
to  advantage.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
metallic  leaf  used  by  jewellers  to  set  off 
precious  stones.  (French,  feu i//e  ;  Latin, 
folium  ;  Greek,  pliuUon,  a  leaf.) 

"  Hector,  as  a  foil  to  set  him  off."         Broome. 
"  I'll  lie  your  foil,  Laertes.    In  mine  ign<ii'anoe 
Your  skill  shall,  like  a  star  i'  the  darkest  uifc'ht, 
Stick  Ilory  off  indeed." 

Uliakespcare :  Hamlet,  v.  2. 

Sc  foiled  me.    He  outwitted  me. 

"If  I  lie  foiled,  there  is  but  one  ashamed  who 
never  was  gracious."— ,S7iafce«j)c«rc;  As  Yvu  Like 
It,  i. :;. 

To  run  a  foil.  To  puzzle  ;  to  lead 
astray.  The  track  of  game  is  called  its 
foil ;  and  an  animal  hunted  will  some- 
times run  back  over  the  same  foil  iu 
order  to  mislead  its  jjursuers. 

Folio.  A  book  of  the  largest  size, 
formed  by  folding  the  paper  only  once, 
so  that  each  sheet  makes  two  leaves.  It 
is  from  the  Itiilian,  xn  libro  in  for/lio, 
through  the  French,  in-folio.  Fol.  is 
the  contraction  for  folio. 

Folio  {so-and-so),  in  mercantile  books, 
means  page  so-and-iso,  and  sometimes 
the  two  pages  wliich  lie  exposed  at  the 
same  time,  one  containing  the  credit  and 
the  other  the  debit  of  one  and  the  same 
account.  So  called  because  ledgers,  etc., 
are  made  in  folio.  The  paging  is  called 
the  folio  also.  Printers  call  a  page  of 
MS.  or  printed  matter  a  folio  regardless 
of  size. 

Folio.  In  conveyances  seventy-two 
words,  and  in  Parliamentary  proceed- 
ings ninety  words,  make  a  foUo. 

Folk.  Latin,  rnlg''  (the  common 
people)  ;  Gennau,  rolk ;  Dutch,  rolch  ; 
Saxon,  folc ;  Danish,  folk.  Folk  and 
vulgar  are  variants  of  the  same  word. 

Folk.  Fairies,  also  called  "peojile," 
"neighbours,"  "wights."  The  Germans 
have  their  kleine  volk  (little  folk),  the 
Swiss  their  hill  people  and  earth  people. 

"The  little  folk, 
So  happy  and  so  pay,  amuse  themselves 
Sometimes  with  singing  .  .  . 
Sometimes  with  dancing,  when  they  jump  and 

spring 
Like  the  young  skipping  kids  in  the  Alp-grass." 
Wyss :  Idyll  of  Gertrude  and  Ilosy. 
"  In  the  hinder  end  of  harvest,  at  All-hallow  e'en, 
When  our  good  neighbours  ride,  if   I  read 
right. 
Some  buckled  on  beenwand.and  some  on  a  been." 
Uontyomery  :  Flyting  aiiuinst  Polwart. 
"  I  crouehc  thee  from  the  elves,  and  from  wights." 
Chaucer :  The  Milleres  Tale. 


Folk-lore.  Whatever  pertains  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  antiquities,  super- 
stitions, mythology,  legends,  customs, 
traditions,  and  proverbs  of  a  people. 
A  "folklorist"  is  one  wlio  is  more  or 
less  acquainted  with  these  matters. 

Folk-mote  [a  folk  meet ing].  A  word 
used  in  England  before  the  Conquest  for 
what  we  now  call  a  county  or  even  a 
parish  meeting. 

Follets.  Goblins  of  the  north  of 
France,  who  live  in  the  houses  of  .simjdo 
rustics,  and  can  be  expelled  neither  by 
water  nor  exorcism.  They  can  l>e  heard 
but  are  never  seen.  In  the  singular 
number,  "  esprit  follet." 

Follo'wr.  Folloic  i/o/tr  nose,  go  straight 
on.  JIc  followed  /lis  nose — he  went  on 
and  on  witliout  any  discretion  or  thought 
of  consequences. 

Jie  nlio  follows  truth  too  closely  will 
hare  dirt  kicked  in  his  face.  Be  not  too 
strict  to  pry  into  abuse,  for  '■^  odium 
Veritas  parit,"  "  Summum  jus  suprema 
est  injuria.^' 

Follower.  A  male  .sweetheart  who 
follows  tlie  object  of  his  affections.  A 
word  very  common  among  servants. 
Mistresses  say  to  female  sei'vants,  ' '  I 
allow  no  followers  " — i.e.  I  do  not  allow 
meu  to  come  into  my  house  to  sec  you. 
Also  a  disciple,  a  partisan. 

"The  iiretty  neat  servant-niaidshad  their  choice 
of  de.sir.ilile  followers.  "—A'.  C.  Oashclt:  Cratifurd, 
chap.  iii.  p.  53. 

Folly.  Father  of  Folhj  {Aim  Jahl), 
an  aged  chief,  who  led  a  hundred  horse 
and  seven  hundred  camels  against  Ma- 
Jiomet  and  fell  at  the  battle  of  Bedr. 
His  own  people  called  him  Father  of 
Wisdom  {Aliu'Lhocin). 

Follg.  A  fantastic  or  foolishly  ex- 
travagant country  seat,  built  for  amuse- 
ment or  vainglory.     (French,  folic.) 

"We  have  m}  this  country  a  w<ird  (namely. 
Folly)  which  has  a  technical  appropriation  to  the 
case  of  fantastic  buildings."— /^e  Quinccy  :  JCusaya 
mi  the  I'vtts  (Keats,  p.  90;. 

Fisher\i  Folly.  A  large  and  beautiful 
house  in  Bishopsgate,  with  pleasure-gar- 
dens, bowling-gi-een,  and  hot-houses, 
built  by  Jasper  Fisher,  one  of  the  six 
clerks  of  Chancery  and  a  Justice  of  the 
Peace.     Queen  EUzabeth  lodged  there. 

"  Kirby's  castle,  and  Fisher's  folly, 
Siiinola's  pleasure,  and  Megse's  glory." 

Stowe:  Suri'cy. 

Fond.  A  foolish,  fond  parent.  Here 
fond  does  not  mean  affectionate,  but 
silly.  Chaucer  uses  the  word  fonnc  for 
a  simpleton,  and  the  Scotch  fou  is  to 
play  the  fool.  Shakespeare  has  "fond 
desire,"  "fond  loye,"  "fond  shekels  of 


Fong  et  Origo 


477 


Fools 


gold,"  "fond  wretch,"  "fond  mad- 
woman," etc.  "Fondling"  means  an 
idiot,  or  one  fond. 

"  See  liow  siiiiiJle  and  how  fond  I  am." 
Shah-expeare :  Midsumtiier  Xighfs  Dream,  iii.  2. 
"  Funiler  than  ignorance." 
Shakespeare :  Troilus  and  Cressida,  i.  1. 

Fons  et  Origo  (Latin).  The  prim- 
ary cause.  Fax  et  focus,  the  instigator, 
as  Juuo  was  the  fax  et  focus  of  the 
Trojan  war. 

Font,  in  printing,  sometimes  called 
Foioit,  a  complete  set  of  type  of  any 
one  size,  with  all  the  usual  points  and 
accents  ;  a  font  consists  of  about  100,000 
characters.  Tlie  word  is  'FvQi\ch,fo)ite, 
from  fondre  (to  melt  or  cast).  When  a 
letter" of  a  ditferent  type  to  the  rest  gets 
into  a  page  it  is  called  a  "  wrong  font," 
and  is  signified  in  the  margin  by  the  two 
letters  uf.     {See  Type.) 

Taken  to  the  font.  Baptised.  The 
font  is  a  vessel  emploj'ed  for  baptism. 

Fontara'bia.    Now  called  Fueuter- 

rabia  (in  Latin,  Funs  rap'ulus),  near  the 

Gulf  of  Gas'cony.     Here,  according  to 

Maria'ua  and  other  Spanish  historians, 

Charlemagne   and  all  his   chivalry  fell 

by  the  sword  of  the  Spanish  Saracens. 

Mez'eray  and  the   French  -wi-iterfi    say 

that,  the  rear  of  the  king's  anny  being 

cut  to  pieces,  Charlemagne  returned  and 

revenged    theii'    death    by    a    complete 

victory. 

"  When  Charlemagne  with  all  bis  peerage  fell 
By  Kontaiabia.' 

Milton  :  Paradise  Lost,  honk  i.  5.s". 

Food.  Su'  Walter  Scott  remai-ks  that 
live  cattle  go  by  Saxon  names,  and  slain 
meat  by  Nonuan-French,  a  .standing 
evidence  that  the  Normans  were  the 
lords  who  ate  the  meat,  and  the  Saxons 
the  serfs  who  tended  the  cattle.  Exam- 
ples: 

Sheep     Ox      Calf   Hog      Pig    (Saxon). 

Mutton  Beef  Veal  Bacon  Voric  (Xurman-Frencli). 

Food  of  the  gods.  {See  Ambrosia, 
Nectar.) 

Food  for  Powder.  liaw  recruits 
levied  in  timts  of  war. 

Foods  and  Wines.  Ga.stronomic 
curiosities. 

Fonds. 

Sterlels  from  the  Volga. 

Eels  from  the  Tilier. 

Grouse  from  Scotland. 

Bustanls  from  Sweden. 

Bears'  feet  from  tlie  Black  Forest. 

Bison  hnnU'S  frciu  .\merica. 

Fillet  of  liei'f  <(  la  Cliateaabriand. 

Ortolans  d  la  Lucallus. 
Wines. 
Old  Madeira  with  the  soup. 
Chateau-Filhot  'is  with  the  side  dishes. 
Johanuisberger  and  Bichon-Longueville  with  the 

Chateau- Lafltte  '48  with  the  entrees. 
Sparkling  Moselle  with  the  roast. 


Fool.  In  chess,  the  French  call  the 
"  bishop  ^^  fou,  and  used  to  represent  the 
piece  in  a  fool's  di'ess ;  hence,  Eegnier 
says,  "  Les  fous  sont  aux  echecs  les  plus 
proches  des  Rois"  (14  Sat.).  Fou  is  a 
corruption  of  the  Eastern  word  Fol  (an 
elephant),  as  Thomas  Hyde  remarks  in 
hia  Liidis  Orientalibus  {\.  4),  and  on  old 
boards  the  places  occupied  by  our 
"  bishops  "  were  occupied  by  elephants. 

A  Tom  Fool.  A  person  who  makes 
himself  ridiculous.     {See  Tom.) 

'■The  ancient  and  noble  family  of  Tom  Fool." 
—Quarterly  Iteviea-. 

Fool  [a  food],  as  gooseberry  fool, 
raspberry  fool,  means  gooseberries  or 
rasjiberries  pres.sed.  (French,  fouler,  to 
press.) 

Fool  Thinks.  As  the  fool  thinlcs,  so 
the  bell  clinks  (Latin,  "  Quod  valde  voV- 
umus  facile  cre'dinius").  A  foolish  person 
believes  what  he  desires. 

Fool  in  his  Sleeve,  Fieri/  man 
hath  a  fool  in  his  sleeve.  No  one  is 
always  wise.  The  allusion  i.s  to  the 
tricks  of  jugglers. 

The  wisest  fool  in  Christendom.  James  I, 
was  so  called  by  Henri  IV.,  but  he 
leai-nt  the  phrase  of  Sully. 

Fool  or  Physician  at  Forty.  Plu- 
tarch tells  us  that  Tiberius  said  • '  Every 
man  is  a  fool  or  his  own  phj'sician  at 
forty."  {Treatise  on  the  Preservation  of 
Health.') 

Fools.     (French, /o/,  Latin, /oW/s.) 

(1)   The  most  celebrated  court  fools  : 

\a)  Dag'onet,  jester  of  King  Arthur ; 
Rayere,  of  Henry  L  ;  Scogan,  of  Ed- 
ward IV. ;  Thomas  Killigrew,  called 
"King  Charles's  jester"  (1611-1682); 
Archie  Annstrong,  jester  in  the  court 
of  James  I.  (died  1672). 

(/>)  Thomas  Derrie,  jester  in  the  court 
of  James  I. 

((■)  James  Geddes,  jester  to  Mary 
Queen  of  Scots.  His  predecessor  waa 
Jenny  Colquhoun, 

(rf)  Patch,  the  court  fool  of  Elizabeth, 
wife  of  Henry  VII. 

(f)  Will  Somers,  Henry  VIII.'s  jester. 
He  died  1560. 

(/)  W.  F.  Wallet,  jester  in  the  court 
of  Queen  Elizabeth. 

{(f)  Trib'oulet,  jester  of  Louis  XII. 
and  Fran9ois  I.  (14S7-1'536) ;  Brusquet, 
of  whom  Brantome  says  "he  never  had 
his  equal  in  repartee"  (1512-1563); 
Chicot,  jester  of  Henri  III.  and  IV. 
(1553-1591)  ;  Longely,  of  Louis  XIII.  ; 
and  An'geli,  of  Louis  XIV.,  last  of  the 
titled  fools  of  France. 


Fool's  Bolt 


478 


Foot 


(/V)  Klaus  Narr,  jester  of  Frederick  the 
Wise,  elector  of  Prussia. 

(j)  Yorick,  ill  the  Court  of  Denmark, 
referred  to  by  Shakespeare  iii  Hamlet, 
y.  1. 

(2)  Not  attached  to  the  court  : 

(a)  Patrick  Bonny,  jester  of  the  regent 
Morton ;  John  Hey  wood,  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  VII.,  dramatist,  died  1505; 
Dickie  Pearce,  fool  of  the  Earl  of  Suf- 
folk, whose  epitaph  Swift  wrote. 

{/>)  Kuuz  von  der  Rosen,  firivate  jester 
to  the  Emperor  Maximilian  I. 

((■)  Gounella  the  Italian  (q.r.). 

{d)  Le  Glorioux,  the  jester  of  Charles 
le  Hardi,  of  Burgundy. 

(<)  Patche,  Cardinal  Wolsey's  jester, 
whom  he  transferred  to  Henry  VIII.  as 
a  most  acceptable  gift. 

(/')  Patisou,  licensed  jester  to  Sir 
Thomas  More.  Introduced  by  Hans 
Holbein  in  his  picture  of  the  chancellor. 

(3)  3Ie)i  teorth;/  of  the  iiwt/ci/  : 

{(i)  Andrew  Borde,  physician  to  Henry 
VIII.,  usually  called  Merri/  Andrew 
(1500-1519). 

{l>)  Geu.  Kj-aw,  a  Saxou  officer, 
famous  for  his  blunt  jests. 

(c)  Jacob  Paul,  Baron  Gundling,  wlio 
was  laden  with  titles  in  ridicule  by 
Frederick  William  I.  of  Prussia. 

(d)  Seigni  Jean  (Old  John),  so  called 
to  distinguish  him  from  Johau  "fol  de 
Madame,"  of  whom  Marot  speaks  in 
his  epitaphs.  Seigni  Jean  lived  about  a 
century  l3efore  Caillette.  , 

((')  Ilichard  Tarltou,  a  famous  clown 
in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  He 
died  1588. 

Q/)  Caillette  "  flomislied ''  about  1494. 
In  the  frontispiece  of  the  ' '  Ship  of 
Fools,"  printed  1497,  there  is  a  picture 
both  of  Seigni  Jean  and  also  of  Caillette. 

Feast  of  loots.  A  kind  of  Satuma'lia, 
popular  in  the  Middle  Ages.  Its  chief 
object  was  to  honour  the  ass  on  which 
our  Lord  made  His  triumphant  entry 
into  Jerusalem.  This  ridiculous  mum- 
mery was  held  on  the  day  of  circum- 
cision (January  1).  The  office  of  the 
day  was  first  chanted  in  travesty ;  then, 
a  procession  being  formed,  all  sorts 
of  absurdities,  both  of  di'ess,  manner, 
and  instrumentation,  were  indulged  in. 
An  ass  formed  an  essential  feature,  and 
from  time  to  time  the  whole  procession 
imitated  the  bra3'ing  of  this  animal,  es- 
pecially in  the  place  of  "  Amen." 

Fool's  Bolt.  A  fooVs  bolt  is  soon 
shot  {Henry  J'.,  iii.  7).  Simpletons 
cannot  wait  for  the  fit  and  proper  time, 
but  waste   their  resoui'ces    in    random 


endeavours ;  a  fool  and  his  money  are 
soon  parted.  The  allusion  is  to  the 
British bowmeninbattle:  the  good  soldier 
shot  with  a  purpose,  but  the  foolish 
soldier  at  random.    {iSee  Prov.  xxix.  11.) 

Fool's  Paradise.  Unlawful  pleasure, 
illicit  love,  vain  hopes.  Thus,  in  lionieo 
and  Jtdiet,  the  Nurse  says  to  Romeo, 
"  If  3'e  should  lead  her  [Juliet]  into  a 
fool's  paradise,  it  were  a  gross  .... 
behaviour."  The  old  schoolmen  said 
there  were  three  places  where  persons 
not  good  enough  for  paradise  were  ad- 
mitted :  (1)  The  /iiti/ms  patruin,  for 
those  good  men  who  had  died  before  the 
death  of  the  Redeemer ;  (2)  The  liiiibiis 
infantum  or  paradise  of  unbaptised 
infants  ;  and  (3)  The  limbiis  fatno'riim 
or  paradise  of  idiots  and  others  who  were 
nan  compos  mentis.     {See  Limbo.) 

Foolscap.  A  con-uption  of  the 
Italian  fvijlio-capo  (folio-sized  sheet). 
The  error  must  have  been  very  ancient, 
as  the  water-mark  of  this  sort  of  paper 
from  the  thii-teenth  to  the  seventeenth 
ceutuiy  was  a  fool's  head,  with  cap  and 
bells.  ^ 

Foot.  (Greek,  pod' ;  Latin,  ped^ ; 
French,  pied;  Dutch,  roet ;  Saxon, _/b<. 
Foot  and  pedal  are  variants  of  the  same 
word.) 

Best  foot  foremost.  Use  all  possible 
dispatch.  To  "set  on  foot"  is  to  set 
agoing.  If  you  have  various  powers  of 
motion,  set  your  best  foremost. 

"  Xay,  but  make  liaste  ;  tlie  better  foot  before." 
iSlKikespnire  :  Kinij  John,  i\ .  •_'. 

1  hare  not  yet  got  my  foot  in.  I  am 
not  5^et  familiar  and  easy  with  the 
work.  The  allusion  is  to  the  prelimmary 
exercises  in  the  great  Roman  foot-race. 
While  the  signal  was  waited  for,  the 
candidates  made  essa3's  of  jumping,  run- 
ning, and  posturing,  to  excite  a  suitable 
warmth  and  make  then-  limbs  supple. 
This  was  "getting  their  foot  in"  for 
the  race.     {Hec  Hand.) 

/  hare  the  measure  or  length  of  his  foot. 
I  know  the  exact  calibre  of  his  mind. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  Pythagore'an  ad- 
measurement of  Hercules  by  the  length 
of  his  foot.     {See  Ex  Pede.) 

To  light  on  one^s  feet.  To  escape  a 
threatened  danger.  It  is  said  that  cats 
thrown  from  a  height  always  light  on 
their  feet. 

To  put  down  your  foot  on  [a  matter']. 
Peremptorily  to  forbid  it. 

To  show  the  cloven  foot.  To  betray  an 
evil  intention.  The  devil  is  represented 
with  a  cloven  foot. 


Foot-breadth 


479 


Pordelis 


Turn  (nru]i  thij  font  from  tlic  tiahhuth 
(Isa.  Iviii.  i;i).  Abstiiiu  from  working 
aud  doiug  j'our  own  pleasure  on  that 
day.  The  allusion  is  to  the  law  which 
prohibited  a  Jew  from  walking  on  a 
Sabbath  more  than  a  mile.  He  was  to 
turn  away  his  foot  from  the  road  aud 
street. 

Withdraw  thi/  foot  from  thy  ncbjh- 
boi(r''s  house,  h'st  he  (jvt  weary  of  thee, 
and  so  hate  thee.  Never  outstay  j-our 
welcome. 

H'ith  one  foot  in  the  grace.  In  a 
dying  state. 

Yoit  hare  put  your  foot  in  it  nicely. 
You  have  got  yourself  into  a  i)retty 
mess.  (In  French,  coas  accz  mis  le  pied 
(tc-tans.)  When  pomdge  is  burnt  or 
meat  over-roasted,  we  say,  "  The  bishop 
liath  put  his  foot  in."     (.bVf  Bishop.) 

Afoot.  On  the  way,  in  progress.  [Sce 
Game's  Afoot,  Matter  Afoot.) 

"  Mischief,  tlioii  art  afoot, 
T;\l;o  Hum  wliat  rourse  tliuii  wilt." 

tihakcspmye:  Julius  Cccnar,  iii.  2. 

Foot-breadth  or  Quern-biter.  The 
sword  of  Thoralf  Skolinsou  the  Strong, 
a  companion   of  Hako   I.    of  Norway. 

{Sec  SWOEDS.) 

Foot-lights.  To  appear  before  the 
foot-liylils.  On  the  stage,  where  a  row 
of  lights  is  placed  in  front  along  the 
lloor  to  lighten  it  up. 

Foot  Monsters.  In  tlie  Italian 
romance  of  Uaert'iio  Jfeschl'/w  Indians 
are  sjjokeu  of  with  feet  so  large  that 
they  carry  them  over  their  heads  Uke 
iimbrellas. 

Foot>notes.  Notes  placed  at  the 
bottom  of  a  "page. 

"  A  triflinj?  Slim  of  misery 
Ni)\v  added  to  tlie  foot  of  tby  account."' 

JJiiidcn. 

Foot-pound.  The  unit  of  result 
in  estimating  work  (tone  by  machinery. 
Thus,  if  we  take  1  lb.  as  the  iniit  of 
weight  aud  1  foot  as  the  unit  of  dis- 
tance, afoot-pound  would  be  1  lb.  weight 
raised  1  foot. 

Foot  of  a  Page.  Tlie  bottom  of  it, 
meaning  the  notes  at  the  bottom  of  a 
page. 

Footing.  He  is  on  good  footing  with 
the  vortd.  He  stands  well  with  ,the 
world.  This  is  a  French  phrase,  Eire 
sur  un  grand  pied  da)i.sle  mo)ide.  ''Grand 
pied  "  means  "  large  foot,"  and  the  allu- 
sion is  to  the  time  of  Henry  VIII.,  when 
the  rank  of  a  man  w^as  designated  by 
the  size  of  his  shoe — the  higher  the  rank 


the  larger  the  shoe.  The  proverb  would 
be  more  correctly  I'endered,  "He  has  a 
large  foot  in  society." 

To  pay  your  footing.  To  give  money 
for  drink  when  you  first  enter  on  a 
trade.  Entry  monej'  for  being  allowed 
to  put  your  foot  in  the  premises  occu- 
pied by  fellow-craftsmen.  This  word 
is  called  foot-ale  by  ancient  writers. 
{See  Gaexish.) 

Footman's  Wand  {A) .  {See  Running 
Footmen.) 

Footmen.     {Sec  Running  Footmen.) 

Fop's  Alley.  The  passage  between 
the  tiers  of  benches,  right  and  left,  in 
the  Opera-house,  frequented  by  mashers 
and  other  exquisites. 

Foppington  (Lord).  An  empty  cox- 
comb in  Vanbrugh's  Relapse,  of  which 
Sheridan's  'Trip  to  Scarborough  is  a 
modified  version. 

'■  Tlie  slioeiiiaker  in  the  Relapse  tells  Lord  Foji- 
inngtoii  tUat  his  lordship  isniistaken  in  suiiiiosiug 
that  his  shoo  pinches."— iocd  MucaitUii/. 

Forbears.  Ancestors,  jiredecessors— 
i.e.  those  bom  before  the  present  genera 
tion.     (Anglo-Saxon,  for-beran.) 

"  My  name  i.s  Granne,  so  please  you,— Roland 
Gneme,  whose  forliears  were  designated  of 
Heathergill,  in  the  Dehateable  Land."— .Sir  IK. 
Si:ott :  The  Abbut,  chap,  xviii. 

Forbes,  referred  to  by  Thomson  in 
his  Seasons,  was  Duncan  Forbes,  of 
CuUo'den,  lord  ^jresident  of  the  Court 
of  Session.  For  many  years  he  ruled  the 
destinies  and  greatly  contributed  to  the 
prosperity  of  Scotland.  He  was  on 
friendly  terms  with  Pope,  Swift,  Ar- 
buthnot,  etc.  The  word  is  now  gene- 
rally pronounced  as  a  monosyllable. 

"  Thee,  Forbes,  too,  whom  every  worth  attciuls.... 
Thy  country  feels  thro'  her  revi\  ini,'  arts. 
Planned  by  thy  wisdom,  bv  thv  soul  nifoniied." 
Thunifnii  :  Autumn. 

Forbidden  Fruit  ( The),  Mahometan 
doctors  aver,  was  tlie  banana  or  Indian 
fig,  because  fig-leaves  were  employed  to 
cover  the  disobedient  pair  when  they 
felt  shame  as  the  result  of  sin.  Called 
"  Paradisaica."  Metaiihoricallj',  un- 
lawful =  forbidden  indulgence. 

Forcible  Feeble  SchooL  {See 
Feeble.) 

Ford.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ford  are  cha- 
racters in  77ic  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor. 
Mrs.  Ford  pretends  to  accept  Sir  John 
Falstaff's  protestations  of  love,  in  order 
to  punish  him  by  her  devices. 

For'delis  (in  Orlando  Furioso).  Wife 
of  Bran'dimart,  Orlando's  intimate 
friend.     When  Brandimart  was  slain, 


!Pore 


480 


r^ortitei?  in  He 


she  dwelt  for  a  time  in  his  mausoleum 
ill  Sicily,  and  died  broken-hearted. 
(Book  xii.) 

Fore.  To  the  fore.  In  the  front 
rank ;  eminent. 

To  come  to  the  fore.  To  stand  out 
prominently  ;  to  distinguish  oneself  ;  to 
stand  forth. 

Fore-and-Aft.  Lengthwise,  in  oppo- 
sition to  "  ath wart-ships  "  (or  across  the 
line  of  the  keel).  {Dana :  Seaman's  3fan- 
nal,  p.  96.) 

"A  slight  srar-deck  f<iie-and-aft."— ,Si/-  )!'. 
Italeigh. 

Forecastle.  Ancient  ships  had  a 
castle,  as  may  be  seen  in  the  tapestrj-  of 
the  House  of  Lords,  representing  the 
Spanish  Arma'da.  I'he  terra  forecastle 
means  before  the  castle.  The  Romans 
called  the  castled  ships  naves  tnrritcc. 

"That  part  of  tlie  upper  deck  fi)r\vanl  of  tlie 
foremast  ...  In  iiiercliaut  ships,  tlic  forward 
part  of  tlio  vessel,  under  the  deck,  wlii're  the 
sailors  live."— i^iiHit ;  Seaman's  Manual,  p.  tHi. 

Foreclose.     To  put  an  end  to.     A 

legal  term,  meaning  to  close  before  tlie 

time  specified  ;   e.(j.  suppose  I  held  the 

mortgage  of  a  man  called  A,  and  A  fails 

to  fulfil  his  part  of  the  agreement,  I  can 

insist  upon  the  mortgage  being  cancelled, 

foreclosing  thus  our  agreement. 

"The  euiliart,'o  with  Spain  foreclosed  this 
trade."— C'li  rcic. 

Fore-shortened.  Not  viewed  late- 
rally, but  more  or  less  obliquely.  Thus, 
a  man's  leg  lying  on  the  ground,  with 
the  sole  of  the  foot  nearer  the  artist  thtui 
the  rest  of  the  body,  would  be  perspec- 
tively  shortened. 

"  He  fdrliids  the  fore-shortenings,  hecause  tbey 
make  ihe  parts  appear  \\tl\ti."—Diyden. 

Forfar.  Do  as  the  cow  o'  Forfar  did, 
tak'  a  staiiiiui''  drink.  A  cow,  in  passing 
a  door  in  Forfar,  where  a  tub  of  ale  had 
been  placed  to  cool,  drank  the  whole  of 
it.  The  owner  of  the  ale  prosecuted  tlie 
owner  of  the  cow,  but  a  learned  baillie, 
in  giving  his  decision,  said,  "  As  the  ale 
was  drunk  by  the  cow  while  standing  at 
the  door,  it  must  be  considered  deocli  an 
dor/iis  (stirrup-cup),  to  make  a  charge 
for  wliich  would  be  to  outrage  Scotch 
hospitality."     {Sir  Jl'.  Scott :  li'arerlet/.) 

Forget-me-nots    of    the    Angels. 

The  stars  are  so  called  by  Longfellow. 
The  similitude  between  a  little  light- 
blue  flower  and  the  yellow  stars  is  very 
remote.  Stars  are  more  like  buttercups 
than  forget-me-nots. 

"  Sileiitl.v,  one  by  one,  in  the  infinite  meadows  of 
heaven, 
Blos.soni  the  lovely  stars,  the  forget-me-nots  of 
the  aufe'els."  Evangeline, 


Forgive,  blest  Shade.  Tliis  veiy 
celebrated  c])itaph  is  in  Blading  church- 
yard. Isle  of  Wight,  and  is  attributed  to 
Mrs.  Anne  Steele  {2'heodosia),  daughter 
of  a  Baptist  minister  of  Bristol,  but  was 
touched  up  by  the  Rev.  John  Gill,  curate 
of  Newchurch.  Set  to  music  iu  three 
parts  by  J.  W.  Callcott  (1795). 

Forgiveness.  (Aug.-Sa.x.,  fort/ifencs.) 

"  Forgiveness  to  the  injured  doth  lielong. 
But  they  ne'er  pardon  who   Imve   done  the 

wrong." 
D)Ti(len  :  CmiqiteH  of  Granada,  part  ii.  act  i.  ". 
"Pniprinni  liunmni  generis,  odisse  liueni  lace- 
r\s."— Tacitus. 

Fork  Out.  Hand  over ;  pay  dowii ; 
stand  treat.  Fingers  are  called  forks, 
and  this  may  suffice  to  explain  the 
phrase ;  if  not,  we  have  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  verb  feccan  (to  draw  out,  to  take), 
and  "  fork  out  "  woidd  be  "  fee  out." 

Forks.  The  gallows.  (Latin, /«»■«/.) 
Cicero  {de  J)irinttdte,  i.  26)  says,  "  Ferciis 
fnream  ductus  est,""  often  quoted  in  proof 
that  criminals  condemned  to  the  cross 
were  obliged  to  carry  their  own  cross  to 
the  place  of  execution.  But  the  ordinary 
meaning  of  furca  is  a  kind  of  yoke  to 
which  the  hands  of  criminals  were 
fastened.  The  punishment  was  of  three 
degrees  of  sevei'ity  :  (1)  The  furca 
iffnoininiosa  ;  {'2)  the  furca  pa)idlis  ; 
and  {}^)  the  furca  capildlis.  The  first 
was  for  slight  offences,  and  consisted  in 
carrying  the  furca  on  the  shoulders, 
more  or  less  weighted.  The  second 
consisted  in  carrying  the/«;Yrt  and  being 
scourged.  The  third  was  being  scourged 
to  death.  The  word  furcifer  meant  what 
we  call  a  gallows-bad  or  vile  fellow. 

Forked  Cap  {A).  A  bishop's  mitre 
is  so  called  by  John  Skelton,  It  is  cleft 
or  forked. 

Forlorn  Hope.  Cromwell  says,  "Our 
for/urn  of  horse  marched  within  a  mile 
of  the  enemy,"  i.e.  our  horse  picket  sent 
forward  to  reconnoitre  approached  within 
a  mile  of  the  enemy's  camp.  (German, 
rerloren.) 

Forlot  or  Firlot.  The  fourth  part  of 
a  boll.     From  f  oner  (four),  hlof  (part). 

Forma  Pau'peris  (Latin,  Under  plea 
of  porerti/).  T<>  sue  in  forma  pauperis. 
When  a  person  has  just  cause  of  a  suit, 
but  is  so  poor  that  he  cannot  raise  £•'), 
the  judge  will  assign  him  lawyers  and 
counsel  without  the  usual  fees. 

For'titer  in  Re  (Latin).  Firmness 
in  doing  what  is  to  be  done  ;  an  un- 
flinching resolution  to  persevere  to  the 


Fortunate  Islands 


481 


Foscari 


end.      Coupled    with  Siiavitcr  in   inodo 
{q.r.). 

Fortunate  Islands.  Now  called  the 
Caua'iies. 

Fortuna'tus.  Yon  have  found  For- 
tniiatns^s  purse.  Are  in  luck's  way. 
The  uurseiy  tale  of  Furtuna'tus  records 
that  he  had  an  inexhaustible  purse.  It 
is  from  the  Italian  fauy  tales  of  Strapa- 
ro'la,  called  jS't(//tts.  Translated  into 
French  in  1585.     {See  Wishing  Cup.) 

Fortune.  Fortune  favours  the  brave. 
{''  Fortes  fortu'na  ad'juvat.^^)  {Terence  : 
Fhor'inio,  i.  4.) 

Fortu'nio.  The  assumed  name  of  a 
damsel,  youngest  of  three  sisters,  who 
dressed  herself  as  a  cavalier  to  save  her 
aged  father,  who  was  summoned  to  the 
army.  Fortuuio  on  the  way  engaged 
seven  servants  :  Strong-back,  who  could 
cany  on  his  back  enough  liquor  to  fill  a 
river  ;  Lightfoot,  who  could  traverse  any 
distance  in  no  time  ;  Marksman,  who 
could  hit  an  object  at  any  distance  ;  Fine- 
car,  who  could  hear  anything,  no  matter 
where  uttered  ;  Boisterer,  who  could  do 
any  amount  of  cudgelling  ;  Gonrmand, 
who  could  eat  any  amount  of  food  ;  ancl 
Tippler,  who  could  drink  a  liver  dry  and 
thirst  again.  Fortuuio,  having  rendered 
invaluable  services  to  King  Alfourite,  by 
the  aid  of  her  seven  servants,  at  last 
married  him.  {Grimni's  Goblins  :  For- 
tunio.    Countess D'AuInoi/ :  Fairy  Tales.) 

Forty.  A  superstitious  number, 
arising  from  the  Scrijiture  use.  Thus 
Moses  was  forty  days  in  the  mount; 
Elijah  was  forty  days  fed  by  ravens  ; 
the  rain  of  the  flood  fell  forty  days,  and 
another  forty  days  expu'ed  before  Xoah 
opened  the  window  of  the  ark ;  forty 
days  was  the  jieriod  of  embalming ; 
Nineveh  had  forty  days  to  repent ;  oiu" 
Lord  fasted  forty  days  ;  He  was  seen 
forty  days  after  His  resui'rection  ;  etc. 

St.  Swithin  betokens  forty  days'  rain 
or  dry  weather  ;  a  quai'antine  extends  to 
forty  days ;  forty  days,  in  the  Old  English 
law,  was  the  limit  for  the  payment  of 
the  fine  for  manslaughter  ;  the  privilege 
of  sanctuary  was  for  forty  days  ;  the 
widow  was  allowed  to  remain  in  her 
husband's  house  for  forty  days  after  his 
decease  ;  a  kniglit  enjoined  forty  days' 
service  of  his  tenant ;  a  stranger,  at  the 
expiration  of  forty  days  was  compelled 
to  be  enrolled  in  some  tithing  ;  members 
of  Parliament  were  protected  from  arrest 
forty  days  after  the  prorogation  of  the 
House,  and  forty  days  before  the  House 
was  convened  ;  a  new-made  burgess  had 

31 


to  forfeit  forty  pence  unless  he  built  a 
house  within  forty  days  ;  etc.,  etc. 

Thf,  ancient  physicians  ascribe  many 
strange  changes  to  the  period  of  fortj^"; 
tlie  alchemists  looked  on  forty  days  as 
the  channed  period  when  the  philo- 
sopher's stone  and  elixir  of  life  were  to 
apjjear. 

Fool  or  2)hijsician  at  forty.  {See  under 
Fool.) 

Forty  Stripes  save  One.  The  Jews 
were  forbidden  by  the  Mosaic  law  to 
iutlict  more  than  forty  stripes  on  an 
offender,  and  for  fear  of  breaking  the 
law  they  stopped  short  of  the  number. 
If  the  scourge  contained  three  lashes, 
thirteen  strokes  would  equal  "  forty  save 
one." 

Forty  stripes  save  one.  The  thiity- 
nine  articles  of  the  Anglican  Church. 

Forty  Thieves.  In  the  tale  of  AH 
Buba' .       {Arabian    Niyhts^    Fntertain- 

nicnts.) 

Forty  Winks.  A  sliort  nap.  Forty 
is  an  indefinite  number,  meaning  a  few. 
Thus,  we  say,  "A,  B,  C,  and  forty 
more."  Coriola'nus  says,  "  I  coidd  beat 
forty  of  them  "  (iii.  I).     {See  Forty.) 

"Tlie  slave  liad  furty  tboiisaiid  lives." 

Shakespeare :  Vthello.  iii.  1. 
"  I  loved  Ophelia  ;  forty  tliousaiui  hrotliers 
Could  not,  with  all  their  quantity  of  love, 
Make  up  my  sum." 

Shakespeare  :  Hamlet,  v.  1. 

Forty-five.  No.  45.  The  celebrated 
nvimber  of  Wilkes's  North  Britain,  in 
which  the  Cabinet  Ministers  are  accused 
of  putting  a  he  into  the  king's  mouth. 

Forwards  {Marshal).  G.  L.  vonBlii- 
cher  was  called  Marschall  Vorwarts,  from 
his  constant  exhortation  to  his  huscsars  in 
tlie  campaigns  preceding  the  great  battle 
of  AYateiioo.  Vorwarts!  always  ]'or- 
u-drls!     (1742-1819.) 

Fos'cari  {Francis).  Doge  of  Venice. 
He  occupied  the  office  for  thirty-five 
years,  added  Brescia,  Ber'gamo,  Crema, 
and  Eavenna  to  the  Eepublic,  greatly 
improved  the  city,  and  raised  Venice  to 
the  pinnacle  of  its  glory.  Of  his  four 
sons  only  one,  named  Jac'opo,  surv^ived  ; 
he  was  thrice  tortured.  Before  his  final 
banishment,  the  old  doge,  then  eighty- 
four  years  of  age,  hobbled  on  crutches  to 
the  gaol  where  his  son  was  confined,  but 
would  not  mitigate  the  sentence  of  "  The 
Ten."  His  sou,  being  banished  to  Candia, 
died,  and  Francis  was  deposed.  As  he 
descended  the  Giant  Staircase  he  heard 
the  bell  toll  for  the  election  of  his  suc- 
cessor, and  dropped  down  dead.  {Byron: 
The  Two  Foscari.) 


Foss 


482 


Fourierism 


Jacopo  Foa'cari.  Denounced  by  the 
Council  of  Ten  for  taking  bribes  of 
foreign  powers.  He  was  tried  before  his 
own  father,  confessed  his  guilt,  and  was 
banitflied.  During  his  banishment  a 
Venetian  senator  was  murdered,  and 
Jacopo,  being  suspected  of  complicity 
in  the  crime,  was  again  tortured  and 
banished.  Ho  returned  to  Venice,  was 
once  more  brought  before  the  council, 
subjected  to  torture,  and  banished  to 
Candia,  where  in  a  few  days  he  died. 

"  Nothing  cau  symiwtliise  with  Foscari— 
Not  e'en  a  Foscari." 

Byron  :  Tlie  Ttco  Foscari. 

Foss  {CurporaT).  An  attendant  on 
Lieutenant  Worthington.  A  similar 
character  to  Trim  in  Sterne's  Tristram 
iS/iaiidi/.  {G.  Culiiiun  :  The  Poor  Godlc- 
man.) 

Foss-way.  One  of  the  four  princi- 
pal highways  made  by  the  Romans  ui 
Eugland,  leading  from  Cornwall  to  Lin- 
coln. It  had  a  foss  or  ditch  on  each 
side  of  it.     (<SV<'  Ekmine  Street.) 

Fossa  et  Furca  \plt  and  gaUoirs], 
Au  ancient  i)rivilege  granted  by  the 
Crown  to  its  vassals,  to  cast  female 
felons  into  a  ditch,  and  hang  male  ones 
on  a  gallows. 

According  to  Wharton  {Law  Dicfioii- 
(irif),  this  fnrca  is  not  the  Latin  word, 
but  the  Helirew  farkah,  to  divide. 
Hence  also  the  servile  tenui'e  called 
Tarvam  vt  FUigdlum. 

Fossils.  Things  dug  up,  animal  and 
vegetable  remains  dug  out  of  the  earth. 
(Latin, /y</io,  to  dig  up.) 

"Jinny  other  Iiodies,  wliicli,  because  we  di.;;- 
c.iviM-  llieni  l.y  (lit-'i,-ini-'  into  the  liowels  of  the 
cai-Ui,  arr  railed  liy  unc  conunou  name— /o.sN/k', 
iindi  r  wliirli  arc  iniiii.reheuded  metals  and  luiue- 
rais.-     [Not  now.]— LufAv. 

Foster  Brother  or  Sister.  One 
brouglit  uj)  by  the  same  nurse. 

K  fostcr-cliild  is  one  brought  up  by 
those  who  are  not  its  real  parents.  (Saxon, 
fostriaii,  Jiiinhh  fostrcr,  to  nurse.) 

Fou  Drunk.  "  Wilbraham  has  ./«;«- 
drank'''' — i.e.  is  despicably  drunk,  dead 
drunk.  French,  fou,  "mad,"  .as  foii- 
cnracje ;  or  simply /«',  i.e.  "full,"  "in- 
tensive," as  in  full-oft,  '■'■  full-weU  ye 
reject  the  connnandment  of  God  "  (Mark 
vii.  9). 

Foul  Proof.  A  proof  is  a  rough 
imi)ression  of  a  manuscript  set  iip  in 
type,  or  of  a  drawing  engraved,  for  the 
author's  correction.  The  proof  with 
many  faults  is  a  foal  proof,  but  the 
"pull,"  after  the  errors  are  corrected,  is 
termed  a  clean  proof.   These  impressions 


are  called  proofs  because  they  must  be 
approved  of  by  author  and  reader  before 
they  are  finally  printed. 

Foul -weather  Jack.  Commodore 
Byron,  said  to  be  as  notorious  for  foul 
weather  as  Queen  Victoria  is  for  fine. 
(1723-17SG.) 

Admiral  Sir  John  Norris,  Avho  died 
1716. 

Fountain  of  Death.  In  Jerusalem 
Del  ire  red,  tlie  hermit  tells  Cliarles  and 
Ubald  of  a  foimtain,  the  sight  of  wliicli 
excites  thirst,  but  those  who  taste  its 
water  die  with  laughter. 

I'ompo'nius  Me'la  speaks  of  a  fountain 
in  the  Fortimate  Islands,  "  Qui  potarere 
risic  sol  run  tar  in  mortem."  Petrarch  al- 
ludes to  the  same. 

These  fountains  symbolise  the  i)lca- 
surcs  of  sin. 

Fountain  of  Youth.  A  fountain 
supposed  to  jjossess  the  power  of  restor- 
ing youth.  It  was  thought  to  be  in  one 
of  the  Baha'ma  Islands. 

Four  Kings.  The  Histori/  of  the 
Tour  Jvinffs  {lArre  des  Quatrc  Mots).  A 
pack  of  cards.  In  a  French  pack  the 
four  kings  are  Charlemagne,  David, 
Alexander,  and  Cresar,  rei^resentatives 
of  the  Franco-Gennan,  Jewish  or 
Christian,  Macedonian,  and  Roman 
monarchies. 

Four  Letters,  containing  the  name 
of  God,  and  called  hy  Rabbins  "tetra- 
grammaton."  Thus,  in  Hebrew,  JHVH 
(JeHoVaH)  ;  in  Greek,  0eos ;  in  Latin, 
I)eus ;  in  French,  lUeu ;  in  Assyrian, 
Adat  ;  Dutch,  Godt ;  German,  Gott ; 
Danish,  Godh  ;  Swedish,  Goth;  Persian, 
Soru  ;  Arabic,  Alia;  Cabalistic,  Agla  ; 
Egyptian,  ©oue,-  Sanskrit,  J>«'«;  Spanish, 
T)ios  ;  Italian,  Idio  ;  Scandinavian,  Odin, 
etc. 

V  This  probably  is  a  mere  coincidence, 
but  it  is  worthy  of  note. 

Four  Masters.  Michael  and  Cu- 
coirighe  O'Clerighe,  Maiu'ice  and  Fear- 
feafa  Corny,  authors  of  the  Annals  of 
iJonigul. 

Fou'rierism.  A  commimistic  sj's- 
tem,  so  called  from  Charles  Fourier,  of 
Besan9on.  According  to  Fourier,  all  the 
world  was  to  be  cantoned  into  groups, 
called  lohalansteries,  consisting  each  of 
400  families  or  1,800  individuals,  who 
were  to  live  in  a  common  edifice,  fur- 
nished with  workshops,  studios,  and 
all  sources  of  amusement.  The  several 
groups  were  at  the  same  time  to  be 
associated    together    under    a    unitary 


Pourierists 


483 


Fox-fire 


governmeut,  like  the  Cantons  of  Switzer- 
land or  the  States  of  America.  Only  one 
language  was  to  be  admitted  ;  all  the 
gains  of  each  phalanstery  were  to  belong 
to  the  common  purse  ;  and  though  talent 
and  industry  were  to  be  rewarded,  no 
one  was  to  be  suffered  to  remain  indi- 
gent, or  without  the  cnjojonent  of  cer- 
tain luxuries  and  public  amusement 
(1772-1837). 

Fou'rierists.  French  communists,  so 
called  from  Charles  Fourier.    {Sec  above.) 

Fourteen,  in  its  connection  with 
Henri  IV.  and  Louis  XIV.  The  follow- 
ing are  curious  and  strange  coincidences  : 

Henri  IV. 

11  letters  in  the  name  Henri-de-Bniirhon.  newas 
tlie  Htli  kiiii,'  of  France  and  Navarre  on  the 
extinctiiin  of  the  faniil.v  of  Navarre.  He  was 
liorn  on  Dee.  14,  l.")5.3,  the  sum  of  which  year 
;iinnunts  to  11 :  he  was  assassinated  on  May  14, 
liUii ;  anil  lived  4  times  14  years,  14  weeks,  and 
4  tinirs  14  days. 

14  ilny,  l."iM,  was  bora  JIarguerite  de  Valois,  his 
first  wife. 

14  Mav,  158«,  the  Parisians  rose  in  revolt  against 
him,  because  he  was  a  "  heretic." 

14  March,  151K),  he  won  the  great  battle  of  Ivr.v. 

14  May,  1.5H0,  was  organised  a  grand  ecch'siastieal 
and  mill tarydemonstr:il  ion  ag:iiiisl  him, which 
drove  him  from  the  t:\ul)onrK.s  (.f  I'aris. 

14  Nov.,  I.ilin,  the  Sixteen  took  an  oath  to  die 
rather  than  submit  to  a  "heretic"  king. 

It  was  Grri.'iirv  XIV.  who  issued  a  Bull  excluding 
Henri  from  the  throne. 

14  Nov.,  ]xn,  the  Paris  parlement  registered  the 
papal  Bull. 

14  Dec,  l.isw,  the  Duke  of  Savoy  was  reconciled  to 
Henri  IV. 

14  Sept.,  1«10,  was  b:i|'iisi'd  ilii-  d;uiphin  (after- 
wards Louis  XI 1 1.1  —II  ■  1  Ib'iiri  IV. 

14  May,  ICIO.Heury  w;is  :i--:i--,n:itc-d  by  Kavaillae. 
For  the  dates  see  Jlntuut  de  France,  by  Bordier 

and  t'hnrton  (1S.VJ). 

Louis  XIV. 

14th  of  the  name.  He  mminted  llie  throne  KM.'!, 
the  sum  of  wliich  lii-'iires  ei|uals  14.  He  died 
1715,  the  sum  of  whch  tlu'un--i  .also  equals  14. 
He  reiirned  77  vcavs.  111.-  sum  of  wlii<-h  two 
figures  equals  II.  lb' «:i^  bnni  li;:i-.  ili,-ii  1715, 
which  added  to_-iili-T  .'.iiinls  :;:;.-,:!,  i  Im'  sum  of 
Whicli  ligures  cuiiirs  i..  11.  Sucli  :i  >liaiige 
conil)ination  is  iiiiiialdj  withuul  parallel. 

Fourteen  Hundred  (A  Stock  Ex- 
change warning).  It  is  to  give  notice 
that  a  stranger  has  entered  'Change. 
The  term  was  in  use  in  Defoe's  time. 

Fourth  Estate  of  the  Realm  ( 77/ r). 
The  daily  press.  The  most  powerful  of 
all.  Burke,  referring  to  the  Reporters' 
Gallery,  said,  "Yonder  sits  the  Fourth 
Estate,  more  important  than  them  all." 

Fourth  of  July  (T/u-).  The  great 
national  holiday  of  the  United  States  of 
America.  The  Declaration  of  Indepen- 
dence was  July  4,  1776. 

Fowler  {Henry  the  Fowler).  Hein- 
rich  I.,  King  of  Germany,  was  so  called, 
because  when  the  deputies  announced  to 
him  his  election    to   the    throne,   they 


found  him  fowling  with  a  hawk  on  his 
fist  (876,  919-936). 

'.'  This  tradition  is  not  mentioned  by 
any  historian  before  the  eleventh  cen- 
tury ;  but  since  that  jjeriod  numerous 
writers  liave  repeated  the  story.  He 
was  called  in  Latin,  Hcnricus  Aiiceps. 

Fox  ( The  old).  Marshal  Soult  was  so 
nicknamed,  from  his  strategic  talents 
and  fertility  of  resources.  (1769-1851.) 
{Sec  Reynaed.) 

Fox.  A?/tipat/ii/  fo  foxes.  Speaking 
of  natural  antipathies,  Shakespeare 
makes  Shylock  say  : 

"  Some  men  there  be  love  not  a  .traping  pig, 
Some  that  are  mad  if  they  behold  a  ctit." 

Tj'cho  Brahe  woidd  faint  at  sight  of  a 
fo.r,  Marshal  d'Albret  at  sight  of  a  pig, 
Henri  III.  at  sight  of  a  cat.  {See 
Antipathy.) 

A  wise  fox  irill  never  rob  his  neir/Ii- 
boHr\s  hen-roost,  because  it  would  soon 
be  found  out.  He  goes  farther  from 
home  where  he  is  not  known. 

I'h'crij  fox  must  pay  his  skin  to  the 
furrier.  The  crafty  shall  be  taken  in 
their  own  wiliness. 


To  set  a  fox  to  keep  the  geese.  (Latin, 
"  Occm  Inpo  committer e.'''')  He  entrusted 
liis  money  to  sharpers. 

Fox  {That).  So  our  Lord  called  Herod 
Antipas,  whose  crafty  policy  was  tlius 
pointed  at,  "Go  ye,  and  tell  that  fox. 
Behold,  I  cast  out  devils  "  (St.  Luke  xiii. 
32).     (B.C.  4— A.D.  39.) 

*.*  Herod  Agrippa  I.  (a.d.  41-44.) 
Herod  Agrippa  II.  (a.d.  52-100.) 

Fox.     An  Old  English  broadsword. 

V  A  correspondent  of  Kotes  ami  Que- 
ries (May  2nd,  1891,  p.  356)  says:  "The 
swords  were  manufactured  by  Julian 
del  Eei  of  Toledo,  whoso  trade-mark 
was  a  little  dog,  mistaken  for  a  fox." 
The  usual  derivation  is  the  Latin  falx, 
French  faucJioii,  our  falchion. 

"  O  signieur  Dew,  thou  diest  on  point  of  fox. 
Except,  O  signieur,  thou  do  give  to  me 
Egregious  ransom. 

Nhakeapcare :  Henry  V.,  iv.  4. 
"  I  had  a  sword,  ay,  the  flower  of  Smithfleld  for 
a  sword,  a  right  fox  i'  faith."— Tjto  Angry  Women 
o/Abhigtun  (159ti). 

Fox  {To).  To  steal  or  cheat ;  to 
fub;  also  "to  shadow"  a  suspect;  to 
waich  without  seeming  so  to  do.  A  dog, 
a  fox,  and  a  weasel  sleep,  as  they  say, 
"with  one  eye  open." 

Fox-fire — i.e.  fause  or  "false  fire," 
the  phosphoric  light,  without  heat,, 
which  plays  round  decaying  matter. 


Fox-tail 


481 


Frangipani 


Fox-tail.  I  (/ore  Jdni  a  flap  irith  a 
fox-tail.  I  cujoled  him  ;  made  a  fool  of 
him.  The  fox-tail  was  one  of  the  badges 
of  the  motley,  and  to  fla|>  with  a  fox-tail 
is  to  treat  oue  like  a  fool. 

Fox's  Sleep  (^i).  A  sleep  with  one 
ej'e  on  the  qui  v'lvc.  Assumed  indiffer- 
ence to  what  is  going  on.     [See  above.) 

Foxed.  A  book  stained  with  reddish- 
brown  marks  is  said  to  be  foxed.  Of 
course,  the  stain  is  so  called  because  it  is 
of  the  colour  of  a  fox. 

Foxglove,  called  by  tlie  Welsh 
Tairi/^x  (jlorc  and  by  the  Irish  Fairy-beUs, 
is  eitlier  a  corruption  of  Folk's  glove — 
i.e.  the  glove  of  the  good  folks  or  fairies, 
or  else  of  the  Saxou  fo.r\_cii]f/lofa,  red  or 
fox- coloured  glove.  (French,  gants  ilc 
Noire  Dame.) 

Foxites  (2  syl.).  The  Quakers.  So 
called  from  George  Fox,  wlio  organised 
the  sect  (1G24-1690). 

"  His  muzzle,  fdrnied  of  oiiiiositinn  stuff, 

Klnu  as  a  Fiixito,  ivoulil  iicit  liise  its  ruff." 
Di:  Wolcolt  [Peter  Pindar]  -.  The  Kuznr  Mia: 

Foxy.  Strong-smelling,  or  red-haired; 
like  a  fox. 

Fra  Diav'olo  (Michele  Pozza).  A 
celebrated  Inigand  and  renegade  monk, 
who  evaded  pursuit  for  many  years 
amid.st  the  mountains  of  Calabria.  (1700- 
1806.)  Auber  has  made  him  the  subject 
of  an  opera. 

Fracassus.  Father  of  Ferragus,  the 
giant,  and  son  of  Morgaute. 

"  Primus  erat  i|"iila'ii  Fracassus  i>role  pigantis, 
C'ujiis  stiriis  iilim  .M(ir«:iiU<i  venit  ab  lUo, 
Qui  liaccliioiciuouL  canii.air.i-  ferre  sololiat, 
I'um  (luii  mille  liuuiiuuiu  culpos  fracasset  iu 
uuo." 

Merlin  Cncains  (i.e.  Tlieophile  Folenyo) : 
Jlistoirc  Mucaruniqiie  (11)06). 

Fradu'lbio  [Bro//ier  Douhf],  says 
Spenser,  wooed  and  won  Duessa  {Fulle- 
faitli)  ;  but  one  day,  while  she  was 
bathing,  discovered  her  to  be  a  "filthy 
old  hag,"  and  resolved  to  leave  her. 
False  -  faith  instantly  metamorjihosed 
him  into  a  tree,  and  he  will  never  be 
relieved  till  "he  can  be  bathed  from 
the  well  of  living  water."  {Faerie 
Queene,  book  i.  2.) 

Frame  of  Mind.  Dispo.sition.  A 
pr  I  liter's  frame  is  a  stand  on  wlucli  the 
type  is  disposed  ;  a  founder'' s  frame  is  a 
mould  into  which  molten  metal  is  dis- 
posed or  poured  ;  a  weaver^s  frame  is  a 
loom  where  the  silk  or  thread  is  dis- 
posed or  stretched  for  quilting,  etc.  ;  a 
pieture  frame  is  an  ornamental  edging 
within  which  the  picture  is  disposed ;  a 
Mental  frame,  therefore,  is  the  boundary 


within  which  the   feelings  of  the  mind 
are  disposed.    (Anglo-Saxon, //«•/«/«-««.) 

France.  The  heraldic  device  of  the 
city  of  Paris  is  a  sliip.  As  Sauval  says, 
"  i/'iVc  de  la  eite  est  Jaite  eoinme  i/ii  grand 
narire  oifonce  dans  la  vase,  ct  ichoite  an 
fil  de  Veau  vers  le  milicn  de  la  Seine.^' 
This  foi-m  of  a  sliip  struck  tlie  heraldic 
scribes,  who  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
Middle  Ages  emblazoned  a  ship  on  the 
shield  of  Paris. 

Frances'ca.  A  Venetian  maiden, 
daughter  of  Miuotti,  governor  of  Corinth. 
She  loved  Alp,  and  tried  to  restore  liini 
to  his  countrj-  and  faith  ;  but,  as  lie  re- 
fused to  recant,  gave  him  u}),  and  died 
broken-hearted.  {Bi/roti:  fSteyc  of  Co- 
rinth.) 

Francesca  da  Rimini.  Daugliter 
of  Guido  da  Polenta,  Lord  of  Kavenna. 
Her  storj'  is  told  iu  Dante's  Inferno 
(canto  v.).  She  was  married  to  Lanciot to 
Malatesta,  Lord  of  liimini,  but  com- 
mitted adultery  with  Paolo,  her  hus- 
band's brotlier.  Both  were  jiut  to  death 
by  him  in  loSi).  Leigh  Hunt  has  a 
])oem,  and  Silvio  Pellico  a  tragcd}-,  oil 
the  subject. 

Francis's  Distemper  {St.).  Impe- 
cuniosity  ;  being  moneyless.  Those  of 
the  Order  of  St.  Francis  were  not  allowed 
to  cany  any  money  about  them. 

"  I  saw  another  case  of  gentlemen  of  St.  Fran- 
cis's <lislomiier."— 7i<(it>(ais  ;  Pantagriwl,  v.  I'l. 

Franciscans,  or  Min'orites  (3  syl.). 
Founded  in  1208  by  St.  Francis  of  Assisi, 
who  called  poverty  "  his  bride."  Poverty 
was  tlie  ruling  principle  of  the  order. 
Duns  Scotus,  Roger  Bacon,  Cardinal 
Ximenes,  GanganelU,  etc.,  were  of  this 
order. 

Called  Frovciscans,  from  the   nam.e  of    their 

founder. 

„       AfiiKtriten.from  their  professed  liumilit.v. 

„       Grey  Friiirs.  from   the  colour  of    their 

outer  warnjent. 

Jl/cnilicxiits,  lircause  the.v  were  rme  of 

thi'  H("..'L'iuL'  or  mendicant  order. 
Obseriuint.i.    Iiecause    the.v    strictly    ob- 
served the  rule  of  roverty. 

V  The  Franciscan  .S'i^iVr.swere  known 
as  Clares,  or  Poor  Clares,  Minoresses, 
Mendicants,  and  Urbanites. 

Frangipa'nl.  A  powerful  Roman 
family.  So  called  from  their  benevolent 
distribution  of  bread  during  a  famine. 

Franr/ipani.  A  delicious  perfume, 
made  of  spices,  orris-root,  and  musk, 
in  imitation  of  real  Frangipani.  Mutio 
Frangipani,  the  famous  Italian  botanist, 
visited  the  West  Indies  in  1193.  The 
sailors  perceived  a  delicious  fragrance 
as    they  neared    Autig'ua,   and   Mutio 


Frangipani 


48c 


Free  Bench. 


told  them  it  proceeded  from  the  Flu- 
me'via  Alba.  The  plant  was  re-named 
Frangipani,  and  the  distilled  essence 
received  the  same  name. 

Frangipani  Pudding  is  pudding 
made  of  broken  bread.  {Franycre,  to 
break  ;  jMiiiin,  bread.) 

Frank.  A  name  given  by  the  Turks, 
Greeks,  and  Arabs  to  any  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  w^estern  parts  of  Europe,  as 
the  English,  Italians,  Germans,  Spani- 
ards, French,  etc. 

Frank  Pledge.  Neighbours  bound 
for  each  other's  good  conduct.  Hallam 
says  every  ten  men  in  a  village  were 
answerable  for  each  other,  and  if  one  of 
them  committed  au  offence  the  other 
nine  were  bound  to  make  reparation. 
The  word  means  the  security  given  by 
Franklins  or  free -men. 

Frankeleynes  Tale,  in  Chancer, 
resembles  one  in  Boccaccio  {Dcranicro/i, 
Day  X.  No.  5),  and  one  in  the  fifth  book 
of  his  F/iilocope.     (See  Doeigen.) 

Frank'enstein  (3  syl.).  A  j'oung 
student,  who  made  a  soulless  monster 
out  of  fragments  of  men  picked  up  from 
churchyards  and  dissecting-rooms,  and 
endued  it  with  life  by  galvanism.  The 
tale,  written  by  Mrs.  Shelley,  shows  how 
the  creature  longed  for  sympathy,  but 
was  shunned  by  everyone.  It  was  only 
animal  life,  a  parody  on  the  creature 
man,  powerful  for  evil,  and  the  instru- 
ment of  dreadful  retribution  on  the 
student,  who  usurped  the  prerogative  of 
the  Creator. 

"Tlio  SnutliernrDiifederac.v  will  Imlhc  soulless 
monster  of  Frankenstein."— C/(ac((?s  Sum}ier. 

V  Mrs.  Shelley,  unfortunately,  has 
given  no  name  to  her  monster,  and 
therefore  he  is  not  uufrequently  called 
"  Frankenstein  "  when  alluded  to.  This, 
of  course,  is  an  error,  but  Frankenstein's 
monster  is  a  clumsy  substitute. 

"  I  believe  it  would  be  impossible  to  control  tlie 
Frankenstein  we  sbonlri  bave  onrselves  created." 
— .s,)'  Juliii  Lubbick  (a  speecb,  188U). 

Frankforters.    People  of  Frankfort. 

Franklin.  The  Polish  Frcuiklui. 
Thaddeus  Czacki  (1765-1813). 

Frankum's  Night.  A  night  in  June 
destructive  to  apple-  and  pear-trees. 
The  tale  is  that  one  Frankum  offered 
sacrifice  in  his  orchard  for  an  extra  fine 
crop,  but  a  blight  ensued,  and  his  trees 
were  unproductive. 

Frantic.  Brain-struck  (Greek,  ^;//r!?;;., 


the  heart  as  the  seat  of  reason),  madness 
being  a  disorder  of  the  understanding. 

"  Cebel's  frantic  rites  have  made  them  mad." 
Spenser. 

Fraserian.  One  of  the  eighty-one 
celebrated  literary  characters  of  the  19th 
century  published  in  Fraser's  Magazine 
(1 830- 1838) .  Amongst  them  are  Harrison 
Ainsworth,  the  countess  of  Blessiugton, 
Brewster,  Brougham,  Bulwer,  Campbell, 
Carlyle,  Cobbett,  Coleridge,  Cruiksha.nk, 
Allan  Cunningham,  D'Israeli  (both  Isaac 
and  Benjamin),  Faraday,  Gleig,  Mrs. 
S.  C.  Hall,  Hobhouse,  Hogg  (the  Ettrick 
sheijherd) ,  Theodore  Hook,  Leigh  Hunt, 
Washington  Irving,  Kuowles,  Charles 
Lamb,  Miss  Landon,  Dr.  Lardner, 
Lockhart,  Harriet  Martineau,  Dr. 
Moir,  Molesworth,  Eobert  Montgomery, 
Thomas  Moore,  Jane  Porter,  Sir  Walter 
Scott,  Sydney  Smith,  Talfourd,  Talley- 
rand, Alaric  Watts,  Wordsworth,  and 
others  to  the  number  of  eighty-one. 

Fraserian  Group  {The)  consists  of 
twenty-seven  persons:  Maginn.  On  his 
rif/ht  /i(7;^f/,  Washington  Irving,  Mahonj', 
Gleig,  Sir  E.  Brydges,  Carlyle,  and 
Count  d'Orsay.  On  his  left  hai/d,  Barry 
Cornwall,  Southey,  Perceval  Banks, 
Thackeray,  Churchill,  Serjeant  Murjjhy, 
Macnish,  and  Harrison  Ainsworth.  (Jp- 
posite  are  Coleridge,  Hogg,  Gait,  Dun- 
lop,  Jerdan,  Fraser,  Croker,  Lockhart, 
Theodore  Hook,  Brewster,  and  Moii\ 

Frater.  An  Abram-mau  {q.r.). 
(Latin,  fraici\  a  brother,  one  of  the 
same  community  or  society.) 

Frat'eret'to.  A  fiend  mentioned  by 
Edgar  in  the  tragedy  of  KiiKj  Lear. 

"Frateretto  calls  me,  and  tells  me  Nern  is  an 
anprler  in  the  lake  of  darkness.  Prav.  innocent, 
and  lieware  of  the  foul  flend."— Act  iii.  6. 

Frat'ery.  The  refectory  of  a  monas- 
tery, or  chief  room  of  a  frater-house. 
A  frater  is  a  member  of  a  fuiternity  or 
society  of  monks.  (Latin,  f ruler,  a  bro- 
ther.) 

Fraticel'lians  [Liltle BreUiroi'].  A 
sect  of  the  Middle  Ages,  who  claimed  to 
be  the  only  true  Church,  and  threw  off 
all  subjection  to  the  Pope,  whom  they 
denounced  as  an  apostate.  They  wholly 
disappeared  in  the  fifteenth  century. 

Fre'a.  The  Anglo-Saxon  form  of 
Frigga,  wife  of  Odin.  Our  Friday  is 
F)ra's  daeg. 

Free.  A  free  and  easg.  A  social 
gathering  where  persons  meet  together 
without  formality  to  chat  and  smoke. 

Free  Bench  {franca /<  hancus).  The 
widow's  right  to  a  copyhold.     It  is  not 


Free  Coup 


486 


Frencli  Cream 


a  dower  or  gift,  but  a  free  right  inde- 
pendent of  the  will  of  the  husband. 
Called  bench  because,  upon  acceding  to 
the  estate,  she  becomes  a  tenant  of  the 
manor,  and  one  of  the  benchers,  i.e. 
persons  who  sit  on  the  bench  occupied 
by  the  pares  citrice. 

Free  Coup  (in  Scotland)  means  a 
piece  of  waste  laud  where  rubbish  may 
be  deposited  free  of  charge. 

Free  Lances.  Roving  companies  of 
knights,  etc.,  who  wandered  from  place 
to  place,  after  the  Crusades,  selling  their 
services  to  anyone  who  would  pay  for 
them.  In  Italy  they  were  tenned  Con- 
dottie'ri. 

Free  Lances  of  Life  {The).  The 
Aspasias  of  fashion.  The  fair  frail 
demi-monde. 

Free  Spirit.  Brethren  of  the  Free 
Spirit.  A  fanatical  sect,  between  the 
thirteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries,  diffused 
through  Italy,  France,  and  Germany. 
They  claimed  "freedom  of  spirit,"  and 
based  their  claims  on  Romans  viii.  2-14, 
' '  The  law  of  the  Spirit  hath  made  me 
free  from  the  law  of  sin  and  death." 

Free  Trade.  The  Apostle  of  Free 
Trade.    Richard  Cobden  (1804-6o). 

Freebooter  means  a  free  rover. 
(Dutch,  bmten,  to  rove,  whence  rrij- 
biiiter  ;  Germnn,  frcibei(ter,  etc.) 

"  His  fiirces  cunsistcd  mostly  of  l^iisc  peoiilo 
anil  fiteliocitei's."— Ckcou. 

Freeholds.  Estates  which  owe  no 
duty  or  service  to  any  lord  but  the  sove- 
reign.    {See  COPYUOLD.) 

Freeman  {Mrs.).  A  name  assumed 
by  the  Duchess  of  Marlborough  in  her 
correspondence  with  Queen  Anne.  The 
queen  called  herself  Mrs.  Morley. 

Freeman  of  Bucks.  A  cuckold. 
Tlie  allusion  is  to  the  buck's  horn.     {See 

HOENS. ) 

Freeman's  Quay.  I>ri)iliiuj  at 
Freema)i^s  Quay.     (AVd' Deinkino.) 

Freemasons.  In  the  Middle  Ages 
a  guild  of  masons  specially  employed  in 
building  churches.  Called  "free"  be- 
cause exempted  by  several  papal  bulls 
from  the  laws  which  bore  upon  common 
craftsmen,  and  exempt  from  the  burdens 
thrown  on  the  working  classes. 

*.*  St.  Paul's,  London,  in  604,  and  St. 
Peter's,  Westminster,  in  605,  wore  built 
by  Freemasons.  Gnndulph  (bishop  of 
Rochester),  who  built  the  White  Tower, 
was  a  "Grand  Master;"  so  was  Peter 


of  Colechurch,  arcliitect  of  Old  London 
Bridge.  Henry  VII. 's  chnpel,  West- 
minster, was  the  work  of  a  Master 
Mason ;  so  were  Sir  Thomas  Gresham 
(who  planned  the  Roj'al  Exchange), 
Inigo  Jones,  and  Sir  Christopher  Wren, 
Covent  Garden  theatre  was  founded  in 
1808  by  the  Prince  of  Wales  in  his 
capacity  of  "  Grand  Master." 

"Bofore  the  lieKiniiiiiK  of  the  13th  century  the 
coriioration  of  freeniasons  was  not  sulllciently 
organised  to  have  had  nnuh  intluence  on  art."— 
J.  FcniHssun:  Historic  ArclKeoluijy, yoi.i.  part.ii. 
chap.  viii.  p.  5i7. 

The  ladij  Freemason  Avas  the  Hon. 
Miss  Elizabeth  St.  Leger,  daughter  of 
Lord  Doneraile,  who  (says  the  tale)  hid 
herself  in  an  empty  clock-case  when  the 
lodge  was  held  in  her  father's  house, 
and  witnessed  the  proceedings.  She  was 
discovered,  and  compelled  to  submit  to 
initiation  as  a  member  of  the  craft. 

Freeport  {Sir  Andrew).  A  London 
merchant,  industrious,  generous,  and  of 
great  good  sense.  He  was  one  of  the 
members  of  the  hypothetical  club  under 
whose  auspices  the  Spectator  was  pub- 
lished. 

Freestone  is  Portland  stone,  which 
cwtsfreclij  in  any  direction. 

Freethinker.  One  who  thinks 
unbiassed  by  revelation  or  ecclesiastical 
canons,  as  deists  and  atheists. 

"Atlicist  is  an  old-fashioned  word.  lama 
frcetliinkcr."— J(/i//-oH. 

Freezing  -  point.  We  generally 
mean  by  this  expression  that  degree  of 
Fahrenheit's  thermometer  which  indi- 
cates the  temperature  of  frozen  water — 
viz.  32=  above  zero.  If  we  mean  any 
other  liquid  we  add  the  name,  as  the 
freezing-point  of  milk,  sidphuric  ether, 
quicksilver,  and  so  on.  In  Centigrade 
and  Reaumiu''s  instruments  zero  marks 
the  freezing-point. 

Freischiitz  (pronounce  frij-shoots), 
the  free-shooter,  a  legendary  Gennau 
archer  in  league  with  the  Devil,  who 
gave  him  seven  balls,  six  of  which  were 
to  hit  infallibly  whatever  the  marksman 
aimed  at,  and  the  seventh  was  to  be 
directed  according  to  the  will  of  his  co- 
partner. F.  Kind  made  the  libretto, 
and  Weber  set  to  music,  the  opera  basetl 
on  the  legend,  called  I)er  Freischiitz. 

Freki  and  Geri.    The  two  wolves  of 
Odin. 
French  Cream.  Brandy.    In  Franco 

it  is  extremely  general  to  drink  after 
dinner  a  cup  of  cofi'ee  with  a  glass  of 
brandy  in  it  instead  of  cream.  This 
"patent  digester  "  is  called  a  Gloria, 


French  Leave 


487 


Friar  Dominic 


French  Leave.  To  UiJce  French 
leave.  To  take  without  asking  leave  or 
giving  any  equivalent.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  French  soldiers,  who  in  their 
invasions  take  what  they  require,  and 
never  wait  to  ask  permission  of  the 
owners  or  jiay  any  price  for  what  they 
take. 

The  French  retort  this  courtesy  by 
calling  a  creditor  an  Englishman  {tin 
Anglais),  a  term  in  vogue  in  the  six- 
teenth century,  and  used  by  Clement 
Marot.  Even  to  the  present  hour,  when 
a  man  excuses  himself  from  entering  a 
cafe  or  theatre,  because  he  is  in  debt,  he 
says  :  "  Xon,  ncn!  je  suis  Angle  "  ("I  am 
cleared  out"). 

"  Et  aiijdurd'luiy  je  faictz  snliciter 
Tuus  luc  iinglu.vs.' 

Gaillaiime  Crclou  (l.j:;ii). 

Freneh  leave.  Leaving  a  party,  house, 
or  neighbourhood  without  bidding  good- 
bye to  anyone  ;  to  slip  away  unnoticed. 

French  of  Stratford  atte  Bowe. 

English-French. 

"  Anil  Freufh,  she  [the  uun]  spak  fiil,  fairo  and 
fetysly, 
After  the  scole  of  Stratford  atte  Bowe, 
For  French  of  Parys  was  to  hire  uuknowe." 
Cliaucer :  Vanterburij  Talcs  (,Tlte_PruloijiU'X 

Frenchman.  Done  like  a  Freneh  man, 
turn  a  ltd  turn  again  (1  Ilcnrij  YI.,  iii. 
4).  The  French  are  usually  satirised  by 
mediaeval  English  authors  as  a  fickle, 
wavering  nation.  Dr.  Johnson  says  he 
once  read  a  treatise  the  object  of  which 
was  to  show  that  a  weathercock  is  a 
satire  on  the  word  Gallnn  (a  Gaul  or 
cock) . 

Frenchman.  The  nickname  of  a 
Frenchman  is  "  Crapaud  "  {q.v-), 
"Johnny"  or  "Jean,"  "  Mossoo," 
"Robert  Macaire"  {q.v.)  \  but  of  a 
Parisian  "  Grenouille  "  (Frog).  {See 
Bbissotins.  ) 
Thov  stand  erect,  they  dance  whene'er  they 

walk  ; 
Monkeys  in  action,  iiarroquets  in  talk." 

Gay :  Epistle  III. 

French  Canadian,  "  Jean  Baptiste." 
French    Feasantrg,    "  Jacques    Bon- 
homme." 

Freneh  Reformers,  "Brissotins"  (^.r.). 

Fres'co-painting  means  fresh-paint- 
ing, or  rather  ixiiiit  applied  to  walls 
while  the  plaster  is  fresh  and  damp. 
Only  so  much  plaster  must  be  spread  as 
the  artist  can  finish  painting  before  ho 
retires  for  the  day.  There  are  three 
chambers  in  the  Pope's  palace  at  Rome 
done  in  fresco  by  Raphael  Urbino  and 
Julio  Roma'uo  ;  at  Fontainebleau  there 
is  a  famous  one,  containing  the  travels 
of  Ulysses  in  sixty  pieces,  the  work  of 


several    artists,    as    BoUame'o,    Martin 
Rouse,  and  others. 

"  A  fading  frcscoe  here  demands  a  sigh." 

I'ofe. 

Freshman,  at  college,  is  a  man  not 
salted.  It  was  anciently  a  custom  in  the 
different  colleges  to  play  practical  jokes 
on  the  new-comers.  One  of  the  most 
common  was  to  assemble  them  in  a  room 
and  make  them  deliver  a  sjjeech.  Those 
who  acquitted  themselves  well  had  a 
cu])  of  caudle  ;  those  who  passed  muster 
had  a  caudle  with  salt  water ;  the  rest 
had  the  salt  water  oidy.  Without  scan- 
ning so  deej^ly,  "fresh -man"  niay 
simply  mean  a  fresh  or  new  student. 
{five  Bejan.) 

Freston.  An  enchanter  introduced 
into  the  romance  of  l)0)b  Belia'nis  of 
Greece. 

"  Truly  I  can't  tell  whether  it  was  Freston  or 
Friston  ;  but  sure  I  am  tliat  his  name  ended  in 
'  ton.'  "—1)011  Quixote. 

Frey.  Son  of  Niord,  the  Van.  He 
was  the  Scandinavian  god  of  fertility 
and  peace,  and  the  dispenser  of  rain. 
Frey  was  the  patron  god  of  Sweden  and 
Iceland,  he  rode  on  the  boar  Gullin- 
bursti,  and  his  sword  was  self-acting. 
[See  Geeda.) 

Niijrd  was  not  of  the  ^sir.  He,  with  his  son 
and  daughter,  presided  over  the  sea,  the  clouds, 
the  air,  and  water  generally.  They  belonged  to 
the  Vanir. 

Freyja.  Daughter  of  Niord,  goddess 
of  love.  She  was  the  wife  of  Odin,  wlio 
deserted  her  because  she  loved  finery 
better  than  she  loved  her  husband.  Her 
chariot  was  drawn  by  two  cats,  and  not 
by  doves  like  the  car  of  Venus.  {Scan- 
dinavian tngthology.) 

Friar.    A  curtal  Friar.     (Sec  Cdr- 

TAL.) 

Friar,  in  printing.  A  part  of  the 
sheet  which  has  failed  to  receive  the 
ink,  and  is  therefore  left  blank.  As 
Caxton  set  iip  his  printing-press  in 
Westminster  Abbey,  it  is  but  natural  to 
sujipose  that  monks  and  friars  should 
give  foundation  to  some  of  the  printers' 
slang.     {See  Monk.) 

Friar  Bungay  is  an  historical  clia- 
racter  overlaid  with  legends.  It  is  said 
that  he  ' '  raised  mists  and  vapours  which 
befriended  Edward  IV.  at  the  battle  of 
Barnet." 

"[Friar  Bungay  is]  the  porsonillcation  of  the. 
charlatan  of  science  in  the  l.ith  ci'Ulury." — Lord 
Liitton  [Bulwer  Ljtton] :  'J'lie  Last  oftlic  Barons. 

Friar  Dom'inic,  in  Dryden's  Spanish 
Friar,  designed  to  ridicule  the  vices  of 
the  pi'iesthood. 


Friar  Gerund 


488 


Friar's  Tale 


Friar  Ger'und.  Designed  to  ridi- 
cule tlie  piilpit  oratory  of  Spain  in  the 
eighteenth  century ;  full  of  quips  and 
cranks,  tricks  and  startling  monstrosi- 
ties. {Joseph  Isla  :  Life  of  Friar  Gerund, 
1711-1783.) 

Friar  Jobn.  A  tall,  lean,  wide- 
mouthed,  long-nosed  friar  of  Seville, 
who  dispatched  his  matins  with  wonder- 
ful celerity,  and  ran  through  his  vigils 
quicker  than  anj'  of  his  fratemitj'.  He 
swore  lustily,  and  was  a  Trojan  to  fight. 
When  the  army  from  Lerue  jnllaged  the 
convent  vine3'ard.  Friar  John  seized  the 
staff  of  a  cross  and  punnnelled  the 
rogues  most  lustily.  He  beat  out  the 
brains  of  some,  crushed  the  anns  of 
others,  battered  theii'  legs,  cracked  their 
ribs,  gashed  their  faces,  broke  their 
thighs,  tore  their  jaws,  dashed  in  their 
teeth,  dislocated  their  joints,  that  never 
com  was  so  mauled  by  the  thresher's 
flail  as  were  these  jullagers  by  the 
"  baton  of  the  cross."  {Rabelais  :  Gar- 
gantua  and  Pantagritcl,  book  i.  27.) 

"  If  a  j.ike  more  than  usually  profane  is  to  he 
uttered,  Kriar  John  is  the  spcikesnian.  .  .  .  .\  mass 
of  lewiluess,  deliauchcry,  iwofanity,  and  valour." 

—Furciyu  (JuaiUiiij  Rtrieir. 

Friar  Laurence,  in   Shakespeare's 

Jtunu'O  and  Juliet. 

Friar  Rush.  A  house-spii-it,  sent 
from  the  infernal  regions  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  to  keej^  the  monks  and 
friars  in  the  same  state  o|  wickedness 
they  were  then  in.  The  legends  of  this 
roysterer  are  of  German  origin.  {Bruder 
Jiause/i,  brother  Tipple. ) 

Friar  Tuck.  Chaplain  and  steward 
of  Eobin  Hood.  Introduced  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott  in  Ivanhoc.  He  is  a 
pudgy,  paunchy,  humorous,  self-indul- 
gent, and  combative  clerical  Falstaff. 
His  costume  consisted  of  a  russet  habit 
of  the  Franciscan  order,  a  red  corded 
girdle  with  gold  tassel,  red  stockings, 
and  a  wallet.  A  friar  was  nicknamed 
tucl\  because  his  dress  was  tucked  by  a 
girdle  at  the  Avaist.  Thus  Chaucer 
says,  "  Tucked  he  was,  as  is  a  frere 
about." 

"  In  this  our  spacious  isle  I  think  there  isnot  one 
But  he  hath  heard  some  talk  of  Hood  and  Little 

John  ; 
Of  Tuck,  the  merry  friar,  which  many  a  sermon 

made 
In  praise  of  Robin  Hood,  his  outlaws,  and  their 
trade."  Uruyton:  PulyoWion,s.-2r>. 

_  Friar's  Heel.  The  outstanuing  up- 
right stone  at  Stonehenge  is  so  called. 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  says  the  devil 
bought  the  stones  of  an  old  woman  in 
Ireland,  wrapped  them  up  in  a  wyth,  and 


brought  them  to  Salisbury  plain.  Just 
before  he  got  to  Mount  Ambre  the  wyth 
broke,  and  one  of  the  stones  fell  into  the 
Avon,  the  rest  were  carried  to  the  plain. 
After  the  tiend  had  fixed  them  in  the 
ground,  he  cried  out,  "  No  man  will  ever 
find  out  how  these  stones  came  here."  A 
friar  re])lied,  ''That's  more  than  thee 
canst  tell,"  whereupon  the  foid  fiend 
threw  one  of  the  stones  at  him  and 
struck  him  on  the  heel.  The  stone  stuck 
in  the  ground,  and  remains  so  to  the 
present  hour. 

Friar's  Lanthorn.  Sir  W.  Scott  calls 
Jack  o'Lantern  Friar  Rush.  This  is  an 
error,  as  Rush  was  a  domestic  spirit,  and 
not  a  field  esprit  fol/et.  He  got  admit- 
tance into  monasteries,  and  played  the 
monks  sad  pranks,  but  is  never  called 
' '  Jack. ' '  Sir  Walter  Scott  seems  to  have 
considered  Friar  Rush  the  same  as  "Friar 
with  the  Rush  (light),"  and,  therefore, 
Friar  with  the  Lantern  or  Will  o'  the 
Wisp. 

"  Better  we  hart  through  mire  and  husU 
Been  lanthorn-led  by  Friar  Rush." 

Nir  Walter  Scutt:  iTarmion. 

*.*  Milton  also  (in  his  V Allegro)  calls 
Will  o'  the  Wisp  a  friar,  probably  mean- 
ing Friar  Rush : 

"She  was  pinchetl,  and  pulled,  she  said  ; 
And  he  by  Friar's  lantern  led." 

but  "Rush"  in  this  name  has  nothing 
to  do  with  the  verb  rush  [about]  or  rush 
[light] .  It  is  the  German  Briider  Bausch, 
called  by  the  Scandinavians  Broder  Bans. 
(Scandinavian,  riius,  intoxication,  in 
German  rausch,  Avhich  shows  us  at  once 
that  Friar  Rush  was  the  spirit  of  ineb- 
riety.    {See  Robin  Goodfzllow.) 

Friars  [brothers'].  Applied  to  the  four 
gi'eat  religious  orders  —  Dominicans, 
Franciscans,  Augustiuians,  and  Carme- 
lites. Later,  a  fifth  order  was  added — 
that  of  the  Trinitarians.  The  first  two 
were  called  Black  and  Greg  friars,  the 
Cannelites  were  called  White  friars,  and 
the  Trinitarians  Crutched  iiiais  {q.v.). 

Friars.     {Sec  Black.) 

Friars  Major  {Fratres  inajo'res). 
The  Dominicans. 

Friars  Minor  {Fratres  mino'res). 
The  Francis'caus. 

Friar's  Tale.  A  certain  archdeacon 
had  a  simipnour,  who  acted  as  his  secret 
spy,  to  bring  before  him  all  offenders. 
One  day  as  he  was  riding  forth  on  his 
business  he  met  the  devil  disguised  as  a 
yeoman,  swore  eternal  friendship,  and 
pi-omised  to  "go  snacks"  with  him. 
They  first  met  a  carter  whose  cart  stuck 


Fribble 


489 


Friend 


in  the  road,  and  he  cried  in  his  anger, 
"The  devil  take  it,  both  horse  and  cart 
and  ha  J'  I  "  Soon  the  horse  drew  it  out 
of  the  slough,  and  the  man  cried,  "  God 
bless  you,  my  brave  boy  !  "  "  There," 
said  the  de\'il,  "  is  my  own  true  brother, 
the  churl  spake  one  thing  but  he  thought 
another."  They  next  came  to  an  old 
screw,  and  the  sumpnour  declared  he 
would  squeeze  twelve  pence  out  of  her 
for  sin,  ''though  of  her  he  knew  no 
wrong;"  so  he  knocked  at  her  door 
and  summoned  her  "for  cui-sing "  to 
the  archdeacon's  court,  but  said  he 
would  overlook  the  matter  for  twelve 
pence,  but  she  pleaded  poverty  and  im- 
plored mere}'.  ''  The  foul  fiend  fetch  me 
if  I  excuse  thee,"  said  the  sumpnour, 
whereat  the  devil  replied  that  he  would 
fetch  him  that  very  night,  and,  seizing 
him  round  the  body,  made  off  with  him. 
{Chancer :  Canterhur)j  Talcs.) 

Fribble.  An  effeminate  coxcomb  of 
weak  nerves,  in  Garrick's  farce  of  Miss 

in  her  Teens. 

Friday  is  the  Mahometan  Sabbath. 
It  was  the  day  on  which  Adam  was 
created  and  our  Lord  was  crucified. 
The  Sabe'ans  consecrate  it  to  Venus  or 
Astarte.     {See  Feea.) 

V  Triday  is  Ft lr/-d(e{/ relics  Venturis, 
called  in  French  Vendredi,  which  means 
the  same  thing.  It  was  regarded  by  the 
Scandinavians  as  the  luckiest  day  of  the 
week.     {Sec  below,  Friday,  Unlack)/.) 

Fridaij.  Fairies  and  all  the  tribes  of 
elves  of  every  description,  according  to 
mediaeval  romance,  are  converted  into 
hideous  animals  on  Friday,  and  remain 
so  till  Monday.  {Sec  the  romance  of 
Gucri'no  Mesehi'no,  and  others.) 

Black  Fridaij.     {See  Black.) 

Zonff  Fridai'i,  Good  Friday,  long  being 
a  synonjon  of  gi-eat.  Thus  Mrs.  Quickly 
says,  "  'Tis  a  long  loan  for  a  poor  lone 
woman  to  bear  "  (2  Hcnrij IV.  ii.  1),  and 
the  Scotch  proverb,  "Between  you  and 
the  long  day"— /.«'.  the  e/reat  or  judg- 
ment day.  Good  Friday  in  Danish  is 
Lanffjicdag,  and  in  Swedish  Liingfredag. 

Friday.  A  man  Fridnij.  A  faithful 
and  submissive  attendant,  ready  to  turn 
his  hand  to  anything. 

J///  man  Fnda;/.  The  yoimg  savage 
found  by  Eobinson  Crusoe  on  a  Friday, 
and  kept  as  his  servant  and  companion 
on  the  desert  island. 

Friday  Street  (London).  The  sh-eet 
of  fishmongers  who  served  Friday  mar- 
kets,    {Stoic.) 


Friday  and  Columbus. 

Fii<l:iy,  August  3rd.  \\K,  ('(iluinliiis  started  on  bis 
viivase  of  discovfi'v. 

Friday,  October  iJtli,  llii'J,  he  first  sighted  land. 

Friday,. January  4th,  U'J3,  he  started  on  his  return 
journey. 

Friday,  March  12th,  149,%  he  safely  arrived  at  Palos. 

Friday,  Novemlier  22nd,  149.3,  he  reached  Hispa- 
niola  in  his  second  expedition. 

Friday,  June  istli,  14M,  he  discovered  the  conti- 
nent of  America. 

Friday  and  the  United  States. 

Fricl;iv..Tune  17th,  177.".,  was  fought  the  Ijatllo  of 
liuuk.M-s  Hill. 

FriiUiy,  ,Iuly  17th,  1776,  the  motion  was  made  hy 
John  Adams  that  the  United  States  are  and 
ought  to  he  independent, 

Friday,  October  17tli,  1777,  Saratoga  surrendered. 

Friday,  SepteniliiT  22ud,  17sO,  the  treason  of  Ar- 
nold was  exii'iscd. 

V  To  these  Fridays  should  be  added  : 

Friday,  July  1.3th,  isne,  the  Great  Enstern  sailed 
from  Valentia,  and  on  Friday,  July  27th,  iMfifi, 
landed  safely  with  the  cable  at  Heart's  Ease, 
Isewfoundlaud. 

Friday  a  Lucky  Day.  Sir  Wil- 
liam Churchill  says,  "  Friday  is  my  lucky 
day.  I  was  bom,  christened,  married, 
and  knighted  on  that  day ;  and  all  my 
best  accidents  have  befallen  me  on  a 
Friday." 

V  In  Scotland  Friday  is  a  choice  day 
for  weddings.     Not  so  in  England. 

Jle  who  laughs  on  Friday  icill  weep  on 
Sandag.  Sorrow  follows  in  the  wake 
of  joy.  The  line  is  taken  from  Eacine's 
comedy  of  Les  Plaideurs. 

Friday,  an  Unlucky  Day.  Because 
it  was  the  day  of  our  Lord's  crucifixion  ; 
it  is  accordingly  a  fast -day  in  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  Soames  says,  "  Adam 
and  Eve  ate  the  forbidden  fruit  on  a 
Friday,  and  died  on  a  Friday."  {Anglo- 
Saxon  Church,  p.  255.) 

■■  But  once  on  a  Friday  (tis  ever  they  say), 
A  day  when  misfortune  is  ajitest  to  fall." 

^(uce :  Good  Dog  of  Ilrette,  stanza  .3. 

V  In  Spain,  Friday  is  held  to  be  an 
unlucky  day.  So  is  it  esteemed  by 
Buddhists  and  Brahmins.  The  old  Ro- 
mans called  it  iiefastHs,  from  the  utter 
overthrow  of  their  army  at  Gallia  Nar- 
bonensis.  And  in  England  the  proverb  is 
that  a  Friday  moon  brings  foul  weather. 

Friend  {A).  The  second  in  a  duel, 
as  "Name  your  friend,"  "Captain  B. 
acted  as  his  friend." 

"Mr.  Baillie  was  to  have  acted  as  Disraeli's 
friend,  If  there  had  been  a  duel  between  that 
statesman  and  Daniel  O'Conuiill." —  Newspaper 
paragraph  (December,  IsSo). 

Better  kinde  frend  than  fremd  kincle 
(motto  of  the  Waterton  family)  mean.s 
"better  kind  friend  {i.e.  neighbour)  than 
a  kinsman  who  dwells  in  foreign  parts." 
Probably  it  is  Prov.  xxvii.  10,  "Better 
is  a  neighbour    that   is  near,  than   a 


Friend  at  Court 


490 


Frithiof 


brother  far  off."  In  which  case  frrmd 
would  be  =  stranger.  Better  a  kind 
friend  than  a  kinsman  who  is  a  stranger. 

Friend  at  Court  properly  means  a 
friend  in  a  court  of  law  who  watches  the 
trial,  and  tells  the  judge  if  he  can  nose 
out  an  error;  but  the  tenn  is  more 
generally  apjilied  to  a  friend  in  the 
royal  court,  who  will  whisper  a  good 
word  for  you  to  the  sovereign  at  the 
proper  place  and  season.     {Sec  Amicus 

CUEI.E.) 

Friend  in  Need  {A).  A  friend  in 
need  is  a  friend  indeed.  ^'■Amicus  certiis 
ill  re  iiurrta  cernidir.'''' 

Friend  of  Man.  IManjuis  de  Mira- 
beau.  So  called  from  one  of  his  works, 
L'Aini  des  Homines  (5  vols.).  This  was 
the  father  of  the  groat  Mirabeau,  called 
by  Barnave  "the  Shakespeare  of  elo- 
quence."    (1715-1789.) 

Friends  .  .  .  Enemies.  Our  friends 
the  cneinij.  When,  on  April  1,  1814,  the 
allied  annies  entered  Paris,  Sir  George 
Jackson  tells  us  he  heard  a  rira  pass 
along  the  streets,  and  the  shout  ' '  iios 
amis,  IIOS  Clin  finish 

Friendly  Suit  {A).  A  suit  brought 
by  a  creditor  against  uu  executor,  to 
compel  all  the  creditors  to  accejit  an 
equal  distribution  of  the  assets. 

Friendship  {Exmnphs-ff) : 

Achilles  :uKl  PatroolDS,  Greeks. 

Ainysana  Aiiiylion  (i/.c).  l-'eutltil  Tlintni!/. 

Hiirciu  (Fm  Bartliiiloiiiew)  and  JIariotto,  artists. 

Basil  aiiU  (Tregory. 

Bmkc  and  Dr.. Jolmsoii. 

t'liiist  and  tbe  "Beloved  disciide,"  Xciv  Testa- 

iiunt. 
Damon  and  Pv  tlilas,  Siiranixnns. 
])a\i(l  and  .lonathan,  O'.'l  T,  stument. 
Dion. (IdG- and  Stln-n'dos,  Hmhs. 
Epaniinnnilas  and  l'elnii(das,  (ireels. 
Gocllieanil  S.iiiller.   iUce  Carlylc:  Schiller, v.ViS.') 
Hadrian  and  AntinOus. 
Haiinndlos  and  Aristot'Itrm.  Oreel.s. 
HercnU's  [Hi-rakles]  and  Icdais,  Greeks. 
Idcnnenens  (4  syl.)  and  .Merlon,  Greeks. 
Manriee  (/•'.  /).).  ami  ('.  KinLrsley. 
Montaigne  and  Etienne  de  la  Boetie,  French. 
Nisiis  and  Enryilus,  Trnjans. 
Py  lades  and  Orestes.  Greeks. 
Saebarissa  and  AniOret,  Siiraciisans. 
Septimros  and  Alcander,  Greeks. 
Theseus  (3  syl.)  and  Pyritlidos,  Greeks. 
Williani  of  Orange  and  Bcntinok.  (,fieeirticauhiu  : 

Ilistorn.i.  11.411.) 

Friendships  Broken  (Eng.  Hist.) . 

Elizalietli  ami  the  Earl  of  Essex. 
Henry  1 1,  and  Tli..mas  Rerket. 
Henry  \'l  1 1.  and  Cardinal  Wolsev. 
Newman  (.1.  H.)  and  Wliately.      " 
Wesley  and  Wliitelield. 

V   Other  examples  in  other  histories 
might  be  added  ;  as 
Brutus  and  (!a?sar. 
Innocent  HI.  and  Otho  IV.    (Sec  MilmaH  :  Latin 

Chnstianitii,  vol.  v.  i<.  -.^ai.) 


Frigga,  in  the  genealogy  of  JEhit, 
is  the  supreme  goddess,  wife  of  Odin, 
and  daughter  of  the  giant  Fiorgwyu. 
She  ])resides  over  marriages,  and  may 
be  called  the  Juno  of  Asgard.  {'Scaiidi- 
tutrian  ini/t/ioloi/i/.) 

Frilingi.    The  second  rank  of  people 

among  the  ancient  Saxons.     {See  Edhi- 

LINGI.) 

Fringe.  The  Jews  wore  fringes  to 
their  garments.  These  fringes  on  the 
garments  of  the  priests  were  accounted 
sacred,  and  were  touched  by  the  common 
people  as  a  charm.  Hence  the  desire  of 
the  woman  who  had  the  issue  of  blood 
to  touch  the  fringe  of  our  Lord's  gar- 
ment.    (Matt.  ix.  20-22.) 

Frippery.  Rubl)ish  of  a  tawdry  cha- 
racter ;  worthless  lincry ;  foolish  levity. 
Afripcrcr  or  fripperer  is  one  who  deals 
in  fripjicry,  either  to  sell  or  clean  old 
clothes.  (French,  fripcric,  old  clothes 
and  cast-off  furniture.) 

'•  We  know  what  belmics  to  a  frippery.'' 

Shakesiicnre :  Tempest  iv.  1. 
"  Old  elothos,  east  dresses,  tattered  rass, 
Whose  works  are  e'en  the  frippery  of  wit." 
Ben  Jiinsitn, 

Fripperi/  properly  means  rags  and  all 
sorts  of  odds  and  ends.  French,  fripe 
{siTiig),  f riper ic  (old  clothes  and  furni- 
ture), fripicr  (a  broker  of  old  clothes, 
etc.).  Applied  to  pastry.  Eugene 
Grandet  says,  "  £ii  Aijjon  la  'frippc ' 
cxpriiiic  Vaceoinpagnemcnt  dit  pain,  depitis 
le  bcurrc plus  distiiigitcc  desfrippcs." 

Frisket.  The  light  frame  of  the 
printing-press,  which  folds  down  upon 
the  tympan  (q.r.)  over  the  sheet  of  paper 
to  be  printed.  Its  olqect  is  two-fold — 
to  hold  the  sheet  in  its  place  and  to  keep 
the  margins  clean.  It  is  called  frisket 
because  it  frisks  or  skips  up  and  down 
very  rapidly — i.e.  tlie  pressman  opens 
it  and  shuts  it  over  with  great  alacrity, 
the  movement  being  called  "Hying  the 
frisket." 

Frith.  Bij  frith  and  fell.  By  wold 
and  wild,  wood  and  common.  Frith  is 
the  Welsh  frith  or  friz,  and  means  a 
"woody  place."  Fell  is  the  German 
fels  (rock),  and  means  barren  or  stony 
places,  a  common. 

Frithiof  (pron.  Frit-i/nf)  means 
"  peace-maker."  In  the  Icelandic  myths 
he  married  Ingeborg  {In-f/e-boi/'-e),  the 
daughter  of  a  petty  king  of  Norway,  and 
widow  of  Hriug,  to  whoso  dominions  he 
succeeded.  His  adventures  are  recorded 
in  the  Saga  Avhich  bears  his  name,  and 


Frithiofs  Sword 


in 


Frozen  Words 


which  was  written  at  the  close  of  tlie 
thirteenth  ceutmy. 

Frithiofs  Sword.  Angurva'del 
(sticiin  of  ((wjidsli).     {Sec  SwoED.) 

Fritz  {Old  Fritz).  Frederick  II.  the 
Great,   King    of    Prussia    (1712,    1740- 

17S6). 

Frog.  A  frog  and  mouse  agreed  to 
settle  by  single  combat  their  claims  to  a 
marsh  ;  but,  while  they  fought,  a  kite 
carried  them  both  off.  (^'Esop  :  Fables, 
clxviii.) 

"  Old  ^Esnp's  fable,  wbere  be  tokl 
What  fate  unto  tUe  mouse  ami  froy  Ivefel." 
Vary :  Vunte,  cxxiii. 

Hie  Frog  Ls  the  Dutchman  (not  French- 
man) in  Arbuthnot's  History  of  Joint 
Bull.  Frogs  are  called  "Dutch  night- 
ingales." 

Frog's  March.  Carrying  an  obstrep- 
erous prisoner,  face  downwards,  by  his 
four  limbs. 

Frogs.  Frenchmen,  properly  Paris- 
ians. So  called  from  their  ancient  heraldic 
device,  which  was  three  frogs  or  three 
toads.  "  Qit'cii  discnt  les  grenoaiUes  ^  " 
—What  will  the  frogs  (people  of  Paris) 
say? — was  in  1791  a  common  court 
phrase  at  Versailles.  There  was  a  point 
in  the  pleasantry  when  Paris  was  a 
quagmire,  called  Late  tin  (mud-land) 
because,  like  frogs  or  toads,  they  lived 
in  mud,  but  now  it  is  quite  an  anomaly. 
{See  Ceapaud.) 

Froffs.      The  Lyciau   shepherds  were 

changed  into  frogs  for  mocking  Lato'na. 

{Ovid :  Metamorphoses,  vi.  4.) 

"  As  wlien  those  hinds  that  were  trausfonncd  to 
frogs 
EailJd  at  Latona"s  twin-born  progeny." 

Milton:  Sonnet,  vii. 

It  may  be  all  fun  to  you,  but  it  is  death 
to  the  frogs.  The  allusion  is  to  the  fable 
of  a  boy  stoning  frogs  for  his  amusement. 

FroUo  {Archdeacon  Claude).  A  priest 
who  has  a  great  reputation  for  sanctity, 
but  falls  in  love  with  a  gipsy  girl,  a,nd 
pursues  her  with  relentless  persecution 
because  she  will  not  yield  to  him.  (  Victor 
Hugo  :  Xotrc  Dame  de  Faris.) 

Fronde  (1  syl.).  A  political  squabble 
during  the  ministry  of  Cardinal  Maz^- 
arin,  in  the  minority  of  Louis  XIY. 
(1648-1(353).  The  malcontents  were 
called  Frondeurs,  from  a  witty  illustra- 
tion of  a  councillor,  who  said  that  they 
were  "like  schoolboys  who  sling  stones 
about  the  streets.  When  no  eye  is  upon 
them  they  are  bold  as  bullies ;  but 
the  moment  a  'policeman'  approaches, 
away  they  scamper  to  the  ditches  for 


concealment"  {Montglat).  The  French 
for  a  sling  is  fronde,  and  for  sliugers, 
frondeurs. 

"It  was  already  true  that  the  French  frnvern- 
nient  was  a  despotism  .  .  .  and  as  speeches  and 
lampoons  were  launched  by  persons  who  tried  to 
hide  after  they  had  shot  their  dart,  some  one 
compared  them  to  chililreu  with  a  sling  (fronde), 
who  let  fly  a  stone  and  run  away." — C.  M.  Yonge: 
Uintuyii  of  France,  chap.  viii.  p.  136. 

Frondeur.,     A  backbiter;   one  who 

throws  stones  at  another. 

'"And  what  about  Diebitsch?'    began  another 
fiondeur.'—Vcra,  p.  -00.       ; 

Fronti'no.     {See  Hoese.) 

Frost.  Jac/h  Frost.  The  personifica- 
tion of  frost. 

"  Jack  Frost  looked  forth  one  still,  cle.ar  night, 
And  he  said,  '  Now  I  shall  he  out  of  sight  ; 
S<i  over  the  valley  and  over  the  height 
In  silence  I'll  take  my  way.' " 

MUs  Gniihl 

Frost  Saints.     {See  Ice  Saints.) 

Froth  {Master).  "A  foolish  gentle- 
man" in  Measure  for  Measure. 

Lord  Froth.  A  pompous  coxcomb  in 
The  Double  Dealer,  by  Congreve. 

Froude's  Cat.  This  cat  wanted  to 
know  what  was  good  for  life,  and  every- 
one gave  her  queer  answers.  The  owl 
said,  "Meditate,  O  cat;"  and  so  she 
tried  to  think  which  could  have  come 
first,  the  fowl  or  the  egg.  {Short  Studies 
on  Great  Subjects.) 

'■  If  I  were  toaj^k,  like  Froude's  cat,' What  is  my 
duty?'  \du  would  answer,  I  suppose,  like  the 
sagiicioiis  animal  in  the  parable,  •  Get  your  own 
dinner  ....  that  is  my  duty,  I  suppose.'  "—l-'tlna 
Lijo.:! :  Donovan,  chap.  i.\. 

Frozen  Music.  Architecture.  So 
called  by  F.  Schlegel. 

Frozen  Words  appears  to  have  been 
a  household  joke  with  the  ancient 
Greeks,  for  Antiph'aues  applies  it  to  the 
discourses  of  Plato:  "As  the  cold  of 
certain  cities  is  so  intense  that  it  freezes 
the  very  words  we  utter,  which  remaiii 
congealed  till  the  heat  of  summer  thaws 
them,  so  the  mind  of  youth  is  so 
thoughtless  that  the  wisdom  of  Plato 
lies  there  frozen,  as  it  were,  till  it  is 
thawed  by  the  ripened  judgment  of 
mature  age."     {L'lutarch's  Morals.) 

"The  moment  their  backs  were  turned,  little 
Jacob  thawed,  and  renewed  his  crying  from  the 
point  where  Quilp  had  frozen  him."  —  i»it7iT(is; 
Old  CnriosUiJ  Shop. 

"  Truth  in  person  doth  appear 
Like  words  congealed  in  northern  air.'' 
Butler  :  Hudihras,  pt.  i.  I,  lines  147-s. 

Everyone  knows  the  incident  of  the 
"frozen  honi  "  related  by  Munchausen. 

"  Pantagruel  and  his  companions,  on 
the  confines  of  the  Frozen  Sea,  heard  the 
uproar  of  a  battle,  which  had  been  frozen 
the  preceding  winter,  released  by  a  thaw. 
[Rabelais:  Fantagruel,  bookiv.  chap.  56.) 


Frumentius 


492 


Fulsome 


Frumen'tius  ('SY.)-  Apostle  of  Ethi- 
opia and  the  Abyssinians  in  the  fourth 
century. 

Fry.  Cliildren  (a  word  of  contempt). 
Get  (livaii,  iioH  young  fry .  It  means  i)ro- 
perly  a  crowd  of  young  fishes,  and  its 
application  to  children  should  be  limited 
to  those  that  obstruct  your  path,  crowd 
about  you,  or  stand  in  your  way. 
(French ,  fra  i ,  spawn . ) 

Xotliing  to  fri/  with  (French).  No- 
thing to  eat ;  nothing  to  live  on.  {Sec 
Wide-nostrils.) 

Frying-pan.  Out  of  the  frying-pan 
into  the  fire.  In  trj^ng  to  extricate 
yourself  from  one  evil,  you  fell  into  a 
greater.  The  Greeks  used  to  say,  "  Out 
of  the  smoke  into  the  flame  ;  "  and  the 
French  say,  "  Tomhrc  de  la  poele  dans  la 
iraisc." 

Fub.  To  steal,  to  prig.  (French, 
fourbi,  "a  Jew  who  conceals  a  trap;" 
foiirber,  "to  cheat;"  four,  "a  false 
pocket  for  concealing  stolen  goods.") 

Fuchs  [a  fox].  A  freshman  of  the 
first  year  in  the  German  University.  In 
the  second  year  he  is  called  a  liursch . 

Fudge.  Not  true,  stuff,  make-up. 
(Gaelic,  Jfay,  deception  ;  Welsh,  ffag, 
pretence;  whence  ff'ugiwr,  a  pretender 
or  deceiver.)  A  word  of  contempt  be- 
stowed on  one  who  says  what  is  absurd 
or  untrue.  A  favourite  expression  of 
Mr.  Burchell  in  the  Tiear  of  JJ'ahrJield. 

Fudge  Family.  A  series  of  metri- 
cal epistles  by  Tliomas  Moore,  purjiort- 
ing  to  be  written  by  a  family  on  a  visit 
to  Paris.  Sequel,  The  Fudge  Family  in 
Fngland. 

FueL  Adding  fuel  to  fire.  Saying  or 
doing  something  to  increase  the  anger 
of  a  person  already  angry.  The  French 
saj-,  "  pouring  oil  on  fire." 

Fuga  ad  Salices  {A).  An  affecta- 
tion or  pretence  of  denial ;  as,  when 
Ca?sar  thrice  refused  the  crown  in  the 
Lu'percal.  A  "nolo  episcopari."  The 
allusion  is  to — 

"  Mall)  nie  Galate.i  petit,  lasciva  puella. 
Et  fugit  ad  sallces.  et  se  cupit  ante  videri." 
Virgil :  EclSja,  iii.  64,  Hj. 
"Crannier  was  not  prepared  for  so  great  and 
sudden  an  elevation.     Under  pretence  that  tlie 
king's  affairs  still  rciinired  bis  presence  abroad, 
lie  tarried  six  months  longer,  in  tlie  hope  that 
Henry  might  consign  the  crosier  to  some  other 
band.    There  was  no  affectation  in  this— no /iw/n, 
(Trf  siilices.     Ambition  is  made  of  sterner  stuff 
than  the  spirit  of  Cmnmev."— Blunt :  He/m-matimi 
in  Knglartd,  123. 

Fuggers.  German  merchants,  pro- 
verbial for  their  great  wealth.  "Rich 
as  a  Fugger  "  is  common  in  Old  English 


dramatists.  Charles  V.  introduced  some 
of  the  family  into  Spain,  where  they 
superintended  the  mines. 

"  1  am  neither  an  Indian  merchant,  nor  yet  a 
Ku-'i-'tr,  but  a  poor  boy  like  yourself.'"— tfttsiiKoi 
d'Alfaraclte. 

Fugleman  means  properly  wingman, 
but  is  applied  to  a  soldier  who  .stands  in 
front  of  men  at  drill  to  show  them  what 
to  do.  Their  proper  and  original  post 
was  in  front  of  the  right  wing.  (German, 
Fliigel,  a  wing.) 

Fulhams,  or  FuUams.  Loaded  dice  ; 
so  called  from  the  Ru])urb  where  the 
Bishop  of  London  resides,  wliich,  in  the 
reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  was  the  most 
notorious  place  for  blacklegs  in  all 
England.  Dice  made  with  a  cavity 
were  called  "  gourds."  Those  made  to 
throw  the  high  numbers  (from  five  to 
twelve)  were  called  "high  fullams" 
or  "gourds,"  and  those  made  to  throw 
the  low  numbers  (from  ace  to  four)  were 
tenned  "  low  fullams  "  or  "  gourds." 

"  For  gourd  and  fullam  holds 
And  '  high  '  and  'low'  beguile  the  rich  and  pr)or." 
Shukefpcare:  Merry  Wiveii  of  It  i»d»or,  i.  3. 

Fulhams.  Make-believes  ;  so  called 
from  false  or  loaded  dice.     (See  above.) 

"  Fulhams  of  poetic  Action." 

Butler :  lludibriisi,  pt.  ii.  1. 
"  Have  their  fulhams  at  command, 
Brouglit  up  to  do  their  feats  at  hand." 

Butler :  Upou  Gaming. 

Full  Cry-  When  all  the  hounds  have 
caught  the  scent,  and  give  tongue  in 
chorus. 

Full  Dress.  The  dress  worn  on 
occasions  of  ceremony.  If  a  man  has 
no  special  costume,  his  "full  dress"  is 
a  suit  of  black,  open  waiscoat,  swallow- 
tailed  coat,  white  neckcloth,  and  patent- 
leather  boots  or  half -boots.  Academicals 
are  worn  in  the  Universities  and  on  offi- 
cial occasions  ;  and  full  military  dress  is 
worn  when  an  officer  is  on  duty,  at 
court,  and  at  olRcial  fetes,  but  other- 
wise, "  evening  dress  "  suffices. 

Full  Fig  {In).  "  En  grande  tenue!''' 
Probably  "fig"  is  the  contraction  of 
figure  in  books  and  journals  of  fashion, 
and  full  fig.  would  mean  the  height  of 
fashion.  It  is  outrageous  to  refer  the 
phrase  to  the  fig-leaves  used  by  Adam 
and  Eve,  by  way  of  aprons.     {Hce  Fig.) 

Full  Swing  (/«).  Fully  at  work; 
very  busy  ;  in  full  operation. 

Fulsome.  "  Ful  "  is  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  fiil  (foulness),  not  ful  (full) ; 
"  some  "  is  the  affix  meaning  united  with, 
the  basis  of  somethipg ;  as,  glad.^ome- 


Ptam 


493 


Furbelow 


mettlesome,       gamesome,      lightsome, 
frolicsome,  etc.,  etc. 

"No  adulatiun  was  too  fulsome  foi'  her  [Eliza- 
betli],  no  tl:iltery  of  her  l>eaiuy  too  (j-reat."— 
Gieiii:  Short  History  of  Mnglaiul,  chap.  viii.  sec. 3, 
11.  37t). 

Fiun,  or  Fioiff  hicang.  One  of  the 
four  symbolical  animals  supposed  to 
preside  over  the  destmies  of  the  Cliinese 
Empire.  It  originated  from  the  element 
of  tire,  was  boru  in  the  Hill  of  the  Smi's 
Halo,  and  has  its  body  inscribed  with 
the  five  cardinal  virtues.  It  has  the 
forepart  of  a  goose,  the  hind-quarters  of 
a  stag,  the  neck  of  a  snake,  the  tail  of  a 
fish,  the  forehead  of  a  fowl,  the  down  of 
a  duck,  the  marks  of  a  dragon,  the  back 
of  a  tortoise,  the  face  of  a  swallow,  the 
beak  of  a  cock,  is  about  six  cubits  high, 
and  perches  only  ou  the  woo-tung  tree. 
It  is  this  curious  creature  that  is  em- 
broidered on  the  dresses  of  certain  man- 
darins. 

Fum  the  Fourth.    George  IV. 

"  And  where  is  Finn  the  Fourth,  i>ur  royal  liinl." 
liyroH  :  Von  Jiuin,  xi.  7t(. 

Fu'mage  (2  sj-1.).  A  tax  for  ha^-ing 
a  fire,  mentioned  in  Domesday  Book, 
and  abolished  by  William  III.  (Latin, 
fitmus,  smoke.) 

Fume.  In  a  fume.  In  ill-temper, 
especially  from  impatience.  The  French 
say,  ^^  i'nmer  sans  tabac ;  Fuincr  sans 
pipe''''  (to  put  oneself  into  a  rage). 
Smoking  with  rage,  or  rather  with  the 
ineffectual  vapour  of  anger. 

"  A  !  Riguot,  il  est  courageulx 
Pour  un  hoiiniie  avautureulx 
El  terriljle  <iuatit  il  se  fume." 

LAventartidx  (a  farce). 

Fun.  Tu  make  fun  of.  To  make  a 
butt  of ;  to  ridicule  ;  to  play  pranks  on 
one.     (ComjMre  Irish yo«;^,  delight.) 

Like  fun.  Thoroughly,  energetically, 
with  delight. 

"On'y  look  at  thedimniercrats,  see  what  they've 
doue, 
Jest  simply  by  sticklii"  together  like  fun." 
Loiceil :  Biylow  l^apers  (First  series  iv.  stanza  5). 

Fund.  The  sinkint/  fund  is  money 
set  aside  by  the  Government  for  paying 
off  a  part  of  the  national  debt.  This 
money  is  "sunk,"  or  withdrawn  from 
circulation,  for  the  bonds  purchased  by 
it  are  destroyed. 

Funds  or  FtiM'ic  Funds.  Money  lent 
at  interest  to  Government  on  Govern- 
ment security.  It  means  the  national 
stock,  which  is  the  foundation  of  its 
operations. 

A  fall  in  the  funds  is  when  the  quo- 
tation is  lower  than  when  it  was  last 
quoted. 


A.  rise  in  the  funds  is  when  the  quota- 
tion is  higher  than  it  was  before. 

To  be  interested  in  the  funds  is  to  have 
money  in  the  pubUc  funds. 

'To  be  out  of  funds,  out  of  money. 

Funeral  means  a  torchlight  proces- 
sion (from  the  Latin,  funis,  a  torch), 
because  funerals  among  the  Romans 
took  place  at  night  by  torchlight,  that 
magistrates  and  priests  might  not  be 
vioLated  by  seeing  a  corpse,  and  so  be 
prevented  from  performing  their  sacred 
duties. 
"Funus   [a  funeral],    from   fiincs    or   fimulia 

[torches] originally    made    of     ropes."— 

Adams  :  Itumuii  Antiquities  (Funerals). 

Funeral  Banquet.  The  custom 
of  giving  a  feast  at  funerals  came  to 
us  from  the  Romans,  who  not  only 
feasted  the  friends  of  the  deceased,  but 
also  distributed  meat  to  the  persons  em- 
ployed. 
"  Thrift,  thrift,  Horatio  I  the  funeral  baked  meats 

Did  coldly  furuish  forth  the  marriage  tallies." 
aiiakespeure :  Ilamlet,  i.  2. 

Funeral  Games.  Public  games  were 
held  both  in  Greece  and  Rome  in 
honour  of  the  honoured  dead.  Examples 
of  this  custom  are  numerous  :  as  at  the 
death  of  Azan  (son  of  Areas,  father  of 
the  Arcadians) ;  the  games  instituted  by 
Hercules  at  the  death  of  Pelops  ;  those 
held  at  the  death  of  (Edipus ;  the  games 
held  by  Achilles  in  honour  of  his  friend 
Patroclos  {Homer :  Iliad,  book  xxiii.) ; 
those  held  by  .3Cueas  in  honour  of  his 
father  Anchls'es  {Jlrffil :  ^Fneid,  book 
V.) ;  the  games  held  in  honour  of  Mil- 
tiades  {Herodotos)  •  those  in  honour  of 
Brasldas  (Th uct/dldes)  ;  and  those  in 
honour  of  Timoleon  mentioned  by  Flu- 
tarch.  The  spectators  at  these  games 
generally  dressed  in  white. 

Fungo'so.  A  character  in  Ererij 
Man  in  His  Humour,  by  Ben  Jonson. 

"  Unlucky  as  Fungoso  In  the  play." 

Pope:  Essay  on  Criticism  (3-'8). 

Funk.  To  be  in  a  funk  may  be  the 
Walloon  "In  de  fonk  ziln,''  literally  to 
"be  in  the  smoke."  Colloquially  to 
be  in  a  state  of  trepidation  from  un- 
certainty or  apprehension  of  evil 

Funny  Bone.  A  pun  on  the  word 
hu'merus.  It  is  the  inner  condyle  of 
the  humerus  ;  or,  to  speak  uutechnically, 
the  knob,  or  enlaryed  end  of  the  bone 
terminating  where  the  ulnar  nerve  is 
exposed  at  the  elbow  ;  the  crazy  bone. 
A  knock  on  this  bone  at  the  elbow  pro- 
duces a  painful  sensation. 

Fur'below.    A  corruption  of  falbala, 


Furca 


494 


Gabel 


a  word  in  French,  Italian,  aud  Spanish 
to  signify  a  sort  of  flounce. 

"  Flnunccd  ami  fiirljeluwed  fi'oin  head  to  foot." 
—Addison. 

Furca.    (Sec  Fossa  and  Fobks.) 

Furcam  et  Flagcllum  (gallows  and 
whip).  The  ineaut'st  of  all  servile 
tenures,  the  hondnian  heing  at  the  lord's 
nierc}',  both  life  aud  limb.     {Sfc  Foeks.) 

Furies  {TItc  Three) .  Tisiphoue  (6V/, 
or  Avenger  of  blood),  Alecto  (Im- 
placable), aud  Megajra  (Disputatious). 
The  best  paiutings  of  these  divinities 
are  those  by  II  Giottiuo  (Thomas  di 
Stefauo)  of  Florence  (1324-l;j.36),  Giulio 
Romano  (149l.*-lo46),  Pietro  da  Cortona 
(1596-1669),  and  Titian  (U77-lo76). 

Furies  of  the  Guillotine  {The). 
The  tricoteuses — that  is,  Freuclnvomeu 
who  attended  the  Convention  knitting, 
and  encouraged  the  Commune  in  all 
their  most  bloodthirsty  excesses.  Never 
in  any  age  or  any  country  did  women  so 
disgrace  their  sex. 

Furor.  Sou  of  Occasion,  an  old  hag, 
who  was  quite  bald  behind.  Sir  Guyon 
bound  him  "  with  a  hundred  iron  chains 
and  a  hundred  knots."  {iSjjeimer :  lairie 
Qiieeiie,  bookii.) 

Fusber'ta.  Rinaldo's  sword  is  so 
called  in  Oriaiido  F/irioso.    (See  SwoiiD.) 

"  This  awful  swonl  was  as  dear  to  him  as  Dmiii- 
da'iia  or  Fuslieita  to  their  resi)ective  masters." 
-,S'/c  W.  Scutt. 

Fusilier's.  Foot-soldiers  that  used 
to  be  rained  with  a  fusil  or  light  musket. 
The  word  is  now  a  misnomer,  as  the  six 
British  and  two  Indian  regiments  so 
called  carry  rifles  like  those  of  the  rest 
of  the  infantry. 

Fuss.  Mucli  ado  about  nothing. 
(Anglo-Saxon, /'« 5,  eager.) 

"rio  full  of  fiirm-e,  so  full  of  fuss, 
She  seemed  to  he  nothing  luit  hustle." 
JJiiud:  Miss  Kilmansfgg,  iiart  iii.  stanza  12. 

Fus'tian.  Stuff,  bombast,  preten- 
tious words.  Properly,  a  sort  of  cotton 
velvet.  (French,  fiitai lie  ;  Spanish, />^a'- 
tint,  from  Fudat  in  Egypt,  where  the 
cloth  was  first  made.)  (_Sce  Boiibast  ; 
Camelot.) 
"Discourse  fuslian  with  one's  own  shadow."  — 

SIhil.rspivrr  :   Otilrll.i,  ii.  3. 

"Sniiie  srnrvy  ipiaint  collection  of  fustian 
j'linis  •-.  aii.l  uplauoisli  words."— Hi'U"--uod  :  Faiiv 
Miiiilc  of  the  Hxcliaiiiic,  ii.  _'. 

Fustian  Words.  Isaac  Taylor 
thinks  this  phrase  means  toper's  words, 
and  derives  fustian  from  f/'><te,  Old 
French  for  a  cask,  whence  "fusty" 
(tasting  of  the  cask).  It  may  be  so,  but 
we  have  numerous  phrases  derived  from 


materials  of  dress  applied  to  speech,  as 
velvet,  satin,  silken,  etc.  The  mother 
of  Artaxerxes  said,  '•  Those  who  address 
kings  must  use  silken  words."  lu 
French,  '■\fairc  pntte  de  re loitr  "  menus 
to  fatten  with  velvet  words  in  order  to 
seduce  or  win  over. 

Futile  (2  syl.)  is  that  which  will  not 
hold  together  ;  inconsistent.  A  futile 
scheme  is  a  design  conceived  in  the  mind 
which  will  not  hold  good  in  practice. 
(Latin,  ftdio,  to  run  off  like  water, 
vilKiicefittVAn.)    {See  Scheme.) 


G. 

G.  This  letter  is  the  outline  of  a 
camel's  head  and  neck.  It  is  called  in 
Hebrew  gimvl  (a  camel). 

G.C.B.     {See  Bath.) 

G.H.V.L.  on  the  coin  of  William  III. 
of  the  Netherlands  is  Cr'rooi!  7/«76c/  Van 
Lit.eciiihuri/  (grantl  duke  of  Luxembourg). 

G.O.M.  The  initial  letters  of  Grand 
Old  Man ;  so  Mr.  Gladstone  was  called 
during  his  premiership  1881-1885.  Lord 
Eosebery  first  used  the  ex])ression  26th 
April,  1882,  and  the  Eight  Hon.  Sir 
William  Ilarcourt  rei^eated  it,  18th 
October,  the  same  year ;  since  then  it 
has  become  qiute  a  synonym  for  the 
projier  name. 

Gab  (//  hard).  The  gift  of  the  gab. 
Fluency  of  speech  ;  or,  rather,  the  gift  of 
boasting.  (French,  gaber,  to  gasconade  ; 
Danish  and  Scotch,  gab,  the  mouth ; 
Gaelic,  gob  :  Irish,  cab  ;  whence  our  gap 
and  gape,  gabble  and  gobble.  The  gable 
of  a  house  is  its  beak.) 

"  There  was  a  pood  man  named  Joh 
Wlui  livedln  llie  laud  of  I'z, 
He  had  a  good  gift  of  the  goli, 
The  same  thing  happened  us." 

lio'oJc  of  Job,  by  Zacli.  Boyd. 
"  Thou  art  one  of  the  knights  of  France,  who 
hold  it  for  glee  and  pastime  to  gah,  as  they  term 
it.  oi'.'xplo  ts  that  are  lieyond  hiimaa  pcjwer."— 
,S';c  h.  Scutt:  The  Tulimium,  cb-Al*.  ii. 

Gabardine'  (3  syl.).  A  Jewish 
coarse  cloak.  (Spanish,  gavanluia,  a 
long  coarse  cloak.) 

•■  You  call  me  mislielievcr,  cut-throat  dog, 
And  spit  ui>on  my  Jewish  gahardine." 

,Shaki'.-<]ie((re  :  MercltUHt  of  Venice,  i. ."?. 

Gabel',  Gabelle  (//  hard).  A  salt- 
tax.  A  word  applied  in  French  history 
to  the  monopoly  of  salt.  All  the  salt 
made  in  France  had  to  be  brought  to  the 
royal  warehouses,  and  was  there  sold  at 
a  price  fixed  by  tlie  Government.  The 
iniquity  was  that  some  pro-s-inces  had  to 


Gaberlunzie 


49S 


Gadshill 


j)ay  twice  as  mtich  as  others.  Edward 
III.  jokingly  called  this  mouopoly  "King 
Pliilippe's  Suite  law."  It  was  abolished 
in  1789.     (German,  ()<ibe,  a  tax.) 

Gaberlunzie,  or  A  ffaherlnnzie  man 
(r/ hard).  A  mendicant ;  or,  more  strictly 
speaking,  one  of  the  king's  bedesmen, 
who  were  licensed  beggars.  Tlie  word 
fiabiin  is  French  for  "  a  cloak  with  tight 
sleeves  and  a  hood."  linizii'  is  a  diini- 
iRitive  of  laiiic  (wool)  ;  so  that  (/ahcr- 
Jinizic  means  "coarse  woollen  gown." 
These  bedesmen  were  also  called  hhie- 
yowus  {q.v-),  from  the  colour  of  their 
cloaks.     {See  above,  Gabardine.) 

Ga'briel  {g  hard),  in  Jewisli  mytho- 
logy, is  the  angel  of  death  to  the  favoured 
people  of  God,  the  iirince  of  fire  and 
thunder,  and  the  only  angel  that  can 
speak  Syriac  and  Chaldee.  The  Maho- 
metans call  him  the  chief  of  the  four 
favoured  angels,  and  the  s\Av\t  of  truth. 
In  mediiBval  romance  he  is  the  second  of 
the  seven  spirits  that  stand  before  the 
throne  of  God,  and,  as  God's  messenger, 
carries  to  heaven  the  prayers  of  men. 
{Jerusalem  Delivered,  book  i.)  The 
word  means  "power  of  God."  Milton 
makes  him  chief  of  the  angelic  guards 
placed  over  Paradise. 

"  Betwixt  these  rocky  pilliii-s  Galjriel  sat, 
Chief  uf  the  angelio  guards." 

Parudiife  Lost,  iv.  ;Jl'J-5jn. 

Longfellow,    in    his    Go/den    Legend, 
makes  him  the  angel  of  the  moon,  and 
says  he  brings  to  man  the  gift  of  hope. 
•'  T  am  the  aii^'ol  of  the  moon  .  .  . 
Nearest  the  earth,  it  is  my  ray 
That  best  illiiiiiines  the  midnight  way. 
I  bring  the  gilt  of  hope" 

The  Miracle  Play,  iii. 

V  It  was  Gabriel  who  (we  are  told  in 
the  Koran)  took  Mahomet  to  heaven  on 
Al-borak  {q.v.),  and  revealed  to  him  his 
"  prophetic  lore."  In  tlie  Old  Testament 
Gabriel  is  said  to  have  explained  to 
Daniel  certain  visions ;  and  in  the  New 
Testament  it  was  Gabriel  who  announced 
to  Zacharias  the  future  birtli  of  John 
the  Baptist,  and  that  afterwards  ap- 
peared to  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus. 
(Luke  i.  26,  etc.) 

GabricVs  horse.     Haizum. 

GabriePs  hounds,  called  also  Galdilc 
Untehct.  Wild  geese.  The  noise  of  the 
bean-goose  {auser  segetuin)  in  flight  is 
like  that  of  a  pack  of  hounds  in  full  cry. 
The  legend  is  that  they  are  the  souls  of 
imbaptised  children  wandering  through 
the  air  till  the  Day  of  Judgment. 

Gab'riell'e  (3  syl. ;  g  hard).  La  Belle 
Gahrielle.  Daughter  of  Antoine  d'Es- 
trees,    grand-master    of    artillery,    and 


governor  of  the  He  de  France.  Henri 
IV.,  towards  the  close  of  1590,  happened 
to  sojourn  for  a  night  at  the  Chateau 
de  Coeuvres,  and  fell  in  love  with 
Gabrielle,  then  nineteen  years  of  age. 
To  throw  a  flimsy  veil  over  his  intrigue, 
he  married  her  to  Damerval  de  Lian- 
court,  created  her  Duchess  de  Beaufort, 
and  took  her  to  live  with  him  at  court. 

"  t'harmante  Gabrielle, 
Perc-ede  mine  (lards, 
Ouaud  l;i  gloirc  m'aiMielle 
A  la,  suite  de  Mars."        Ilairl  IV. 

Gabri'na,  in  Orlando  Furioso,  is  a 
sort  of  Potiphar's  wife.  {See  under 
Akgeo.)  When  Philander  had  un- 
wittingly killed  her  husband,  Gabriua 
threatened  to  deliver  him  up  to  the  law 
unless  he  married  her ;  an  alternative 
that  Philander  accepted,  but  ere  long 
she  tired  of  and  poisoned  him.  The 
whole  affair  being  brought  to  light, 
Gabrina  was  shut  u])  in  prison,  but, 
effecting  her  escape,  wandered  about 
the  coiuitry  as  an  old  hag.  Knight  after 
knight  had  to  defend  her ;  but  at  last 
she  was  committed  to  the  charge  of 
Odoiico,  who,  to  get  rid  of  her,  hung 
her  on  an  old  elm.     {Sec  Odoeico.  ) 

Ga'briolet'ta  {f/  hard).  Governess 
of  Brittany,  rescued  by  Ani'adis  of  Gaul 
from  the  hands  of  Balan,  "  the  bravest 
and  strongest  of  all  the  giants."  (Aiiia- 
disof  Gaul,  bk.  iv.  ch.  129.) 

Gad  {g  hard).  G adding  from  place  to 
place.  Wandering  from  pillar  to  post 
without  any  profitable  purpose. 

"Hive  water  no  passage,  neither  a  wicked 
woman    lilierty     to  gad   abroad."— A'cctei'dSf/cits 

Gad-about  (.i).  A  person  who  spends 
day  after  day  in  frivolous  visits,  gadding 
from  liouse  to  house. 

Gad-fly  is  not  tlie  roving  but  the 
goading  fly.    (Anglo-Saxon,  gad,  a  goad.) 

Gad-steel.  Flemish  steel.  So  called 
because  it  is  wrought  in  gads,  or  small 
bars.  (Anglo-Saxon,  gad,  a  small  bar  or 
goad  ;  Icelandic,  gaddr,  a  spike  or  goad. ) 

"  I  will  t,'o  g.n  a  leaf  of  brass. 
And  with  a  i.'ad  of  steel  will  write  tliesewords." 
Khalccs/'Citrc  :  'J'itus  .iiidionicits,  i\ .  1. 

Gadshill,  in  Kent,  near  Rochester. 
Famous  for  the  attack  of  Sir  John  Fal- 
staff  and  three  of  his  kuavi.sh  com- 
panions on  a  party  of  four  travellers, 
whom  they  robbed  of  their  iiurses. 
While  the  robbers  were  dividing  the 
spoil,  Pohis  and  the  Prince  of  Wales 
set  upon  them,  and  "outfaced  them 
from  their  prize  ;  "  and  as  for  the  "Her- 
cules of  flesh,"  he  ran  and  "roared  for 
mercy,  and  still  ran  and  roared,"  says 


Gaels 


496 


Galore 


the  priuce,    "  as   ever  I  heard   a  bull- 
calf."     Gadshill  is  also  the  name  of  oue 
of  the  thievish  compauions  of  Sir  Johu, 
{S/icikrspcare  :  1  Hoirif  1  J'.,  ii.  4.) 
V   Charles  Dickens  lived  at  Gadshill. 

Gaels.  A  coutraetion  of  Gaid-hcals 
(liidden  rovers).  The  inhabitants  of  Scot- 
land who  maintained  their  ground  in  the 
Highlands  against  the  Celts. 

Gaff  (.v  hard).  Cmolcd  as  a  r/af.  A 
gaff  is  an  iron  hook  at  the  end  of  a 
short  pole,  used  for  landing  salmon,  etc. 
The  metal  spurs  of  fighting-cocks.  In 
nautical  language,  a  spar  to  which  the 
liead  of  a  fore-and-aft  sail  is  bent. 
{Ddua  :  Seamiin's  MaiuK/l,  p.  97-)  (Irish, 
>/('/;  Si^anish  and  Portuguese,  'jufci.) 

Gaffer  {f/  hard).  A  title  of  address, 
as  "  Gaffer  Grey,"  "  Good -day,  Gaffer." 
About  equal  to  "mate."  (Anglo-Saxon, 
f/cfera,  a  comrade.)  Many  think  the 
word  is  "  grandf athei". "    {'Sec  Gammee.) 

"  If  T  liail  but  a  tlioiisand  a  year,  Gaffer  Green, 
If  I  had  hut  a  tlKiiisanil  a  year." 

Goffer  (Ircrn  tuut  Rohin  Rough. 

Gags,  in  theatrical  parlance,  are  in- 
terpolations. When  Hamlet  directs  the 
players  to  say  no  more  ' '  than  is  set 
down,"  he  cautions  them  against  in- 
dulgence in  gags.  {Hamlet,  lii.  2.) 
(Dutch,  gaggeleii,  to  cackle.  Compare 
Anglo-Saxon,  geayl,  the  jaw.) 

Gala  Day  (g  hard).  A  festive  day; 
a  day  when  peojile  put  on  their  best 
attire.  (Spanish,  gala,  coiu't  dress ; 
Italian,  gala,  finery  ;  French,  gala, 
pomp. ) 

Galactic  Circle  {Thi^  is  to  sidereal 
astronomy  what  the  ecliptic  is  to  planet- 
ary astronomy.  The  Galaxy  being  the 
sidereal  equator,  the  Galactic  cii"cle  is 
inclined  to  it  at  an  angle  of  63% 

Gal'ahad,  or  Sir  Galaad  {g  hard). 
Sou  of  Sir  Launcelot  and  Elaine,  one  of 
the  Kniglits  of  the  Round  Table,  so 
pure  in  life  that  he  was  successful  in  his 
search  for  the  Sangrail.  Tennyson  has 
a  poem  on  the  subject,  called  The  Kohj 
Grail. 

"  Tliore  Galaad  sat,  with  manly  srare, 
I  Yet  maiden  meekness  in  liisface." 

Sir  ^Y.  Scott :  Bridal  of  Triermain,  ii.  13. 

Gal'aor  [Boti).  Brother  of  Am'adis 
of  Gaul,  a  gay  libertine,  whose  adveu- 
tin-es  fonn  a  strong  contrast  to  those  of 
the  more  serious  hero. 

Galate'a.  A  sea-nymph,  beloved  by 
Polyphe'me,  but  herself  in  love  with 
Acis.    Acis  was  crushed  under  a  huge 


rock  by  the  jealous  giant,  and  Galatea 
threw  herself  into  tlie  sea,  whore  she 
joined  her  sister  nymphs.  Carlo  Mar- 
atti  (1G25-171'')  depicted  Galatea  in 
the  sea  and  Polypheme  sitting  on  a  rock. 
Handel  has  an  opera  entitled  Acis  and 
Galatea. 

Gal'athe  (3  syl.).     Hector's  horse. 
"  There  is  a  tlionsand  Hecturs  in  the  field  ; 
Now  here  lie  lltrhts  on  Galathe  his  hi>rse, 
And  there  lacks  wnrk." 

Sluikcsiifiire :  Troilus  (iiul  Cresaida,  v.  S. 

Galaxy  {T/ie).  The  "Milky  Way." 
A  long  white  luminous  track  of  stars 
which  seems  to  encompass  the  heavens 
like  a  girdle.  According  to  classic  fable, 
it  is  the  path  to  the  palace  of  Zeus  (1  syl.) 
or  Jupiter.  (Greek,  gala,  milk,  genitive, 
galaktos.) 

yL  galaxg  of  bcautg.  A  cluster,  as- 
sembly, or  coterie  of  handsome  women. 

Gale's  Compound.  Powdered  glass 
mixed  with  gunjjowder  to  render  it  iiou- 
ex2)losive.     Dr.  Gale  is  the  patentee. 

Galen  (//  hard).  Galen  mga  "Xr^//," 
and  HipjMc'rates  "  Yea.''''  The  doctors 
disagree,  and  who  is  to  decide  i'  Galen 
was  a  physician  of  Asia  Minor  in  the 
second  Christian  century.  Hippoc'rates 
—  a  native  of  Cos,  born  B.C.  460— was 
the  most  celebrated  jjhysiciau  of  an- 
tiquitj'. 

Gulcn.  A  generic  name  for  an  apothe- 
cary. Galenists  prefer  drugs  (called 
Galenical  inedicinen),  Paracelsians  use 
mineral  medicines. 

Galeot'ti  {Mariias).  Louis  XL's 
Ittilian  astrologer.  Being  asked  by  the 
king  if  he  knew  the  day  of  his  own 
death,  he  craftily  replied  tliat  he  could 
not  name  the  exact  day,  but  he  knew 
this  much :  it  would  be  twentj'-four 
hours  before  the  decease  of  his  majestj'. 
Thrasullus,  the  soothsayer  of  Tiberius, 
Erajieror  of  Rome,  made  verbally  the 
same  answer  to  the  same  question. 

"  '  Can  thy  pretended  skill  ascertain  the  hour  of 
thine  own  death  ?' 

"  '  Only  I'y  referring  to  the  fate  of  another,'  said 
Galeotti. 

'■  •  I  understand  not  thine  answer,'  said  Louis. 

"' Know  then,  O  kinf,',' said  Martins,  'that  this 
only  I  can  tell  with  certainty  cnncerninfi  mine 
own  death,  that  it  shall  take  iilace exactly  twenty- 
four  liours  lief.ire  your  majesty's.'  " 

,S(;-  W.  Scott:  (Jiuntiii  Viirward,  chap.  xxix. 

Galera'na  {g  hard),  according  to 
Ariosto,  was  wife  of  Charlemagne. 
{Orlando  Fttrioso,  bk.  xxi.)    {Sec  Chaele- 

MAGNE.) 

Galere  (2  syl.).  Que  diahle  allait-il 
faire  dans  cette  galere  ?  (What  business 
had  he  to  be  on  that  galley  V)  This  is 
from  Moliere's  comedy  of  Lcs  Fotirberies 


Galesus 


497 


Gallicism 


de  Scapin.  Scapin  wants  to  bamboozle 
Geroute  out  of  his  money,  and  tells  him 
that  his  master  (G^route's  son)  is  de- 
tained prisoner  on  a  Tui'kish  galley, 
where  he  went  out  of  curiosity.  He 
adds,  that  unless  the  old  man  will 
ransom  him,  he  will  be  taken  to  Algiers 
as  a  slave.  Geroute  rejilies  to  all  that 
Scapin  urges,  "What  business  had  he  to 
go  on  board  the  galley  r  "  The  retort  is 
given  to  those  who  beg  money  to  helj) 
them  out  of  difficulties  which  they  have 
brought  on  themselves.  ' '  I  grant  you 
are  in  trouble,  but  what  right  had  you 
to  go  on  the  galley  'i  " 

l'<i(ji(c  la  Galerc.      (<SVc  Vogue.) 

Gale'sus  (g  hard).  A  river  of  Pug'lia, 
not  far  from  Tarentum.  The  sheep  that 
fed  on  the  meadows  of  Gale'sus  were 
noted  for  their  fine  wool.  {Horavc : 
2  Car  mi  nil  III  Liber,  vi.  10.) 

Galian'a  (f/  hard).  A  Moorish  prin- 
cess. Her  father.  King  Gadalfe  of 
Tole'do,  built  for  her  a  palace  ou  the 
Tagus  so  splendid  that  the  phrase  "a 
palace  of  Galiana  "  became  proverbial 
in  Sixain. 

Galimau'frey  or  Gallimau'frey  (y 

hard).  A  medley  ;  any  confused  jumble 
of  things  ;  but  strictly  .speaking,  a  hotch- 
potch made  up  of  all  the  scraps  of  the 
larder.  (French,  galiitutfrce ;  Spanish, 
(/(lUofd,  "broken  meat,"  yallofcro,  a 
beggar.) 

"  He  woris  lintU  liigb  and  low,  l)otb  rich  and  poor, 
Bolli  .voiinf?  and  old,  one  with  another,  Ford  ; 
He  loves  thy  gaily-niawfry  [all  sorts]." 

Shaktfjieure :  Merry  H'u'es,  ii.  1. 

Gall  and  Wormwood.  Extremely 
disagreeable  and  anuojing. 

'"It  was  so  much  j-'all  and  wormwood  to  the 
family."— .Vi>'.  E.  Lytin  lAtiioii. 

Gall    of    Bitterness    {Th').      The 

bitterest  grief  ;  extreme  .nfflictiou.  The 
ancients  taught  that  grief  and  joy  were 
subject  to  the  gall,  aft'ection  to  the  heart, 
knowledge  to  the  kidneys,  auger  to  the 
bile  (one  of  the  four  humours  of  the 
body),  aud  courage  or  timidity  to  the 
liver.  The  gall  of  bitterness,  like  the 
heart  of  hearts,  means  the  bitter  centre 
of  bitterness,  as  the  heart  of  hearts 
means  the  innermost  recesses  of  the 
heart  or  affections.  In  the  Acts  it  is 
used  to  signify  "the  sinfulness  of  sin," 
which  leads  to  the  bitterest  grief. 

"'I  perceive  thon  art  in  the  pall  of  hitterness, 
and  in  the  bond  of  iuinnity."— -Acts  viii.  :.'3. 

Gall  of  Pigeons.  The  slory  goes 
that  pigeons  have  no  gall,  because  the 
dove  sent  from  the  ark  ]jy  Noah  burst 

32 


its  gall  out  of  grief,  rmd  none  of  the 
pigeon  family  have  had  a  gall  ever  since. 

"  For  sin'  the  Flood  of  Noah 
The  dow  she  had  nae  ga'."' 
Javncson:  Popular  Ballads  (Lord  of  Rorlin's 
Vaiiijlitcr). 

Gall's  BeU  (St.).  A  four-sided  bell, 
which  was  certainly  in  existence  in  the 
seventh  century,  and  is  still  shown  in 
the  monastery  of  St.  Gall,  Switzerland. 

Gallant'  (,//  hard).  Brave,  polite, 
courteous,  etc.     (French,  galant.) 

Gallery.  To  plag  with  one  cije  on  the 
(jrdkvtj.  To  work  for  popularity.  As 
an  actor  who  sacrifices  his  author  for 
popular  applause,  or  a  stump  political 
orator  "  orates  "  to  catch  votes. 

"  The  instant  we  begin  to  think 'abont  success 
and  the  effect  ipf  our  work— to  play  with  one  eye 
on  the  gallery— we  lose  power,  and  touch,  and 
e\eryihfnL.'  c]:-c."—]ludi/ard  Klpl'uid:  Tin-  L'njlit 
tliut  tailuL 

Galley  {fi  hard).  A  printer's  frame 
into  which  type  from  the  .stick  {q.v.)  is 
emptied.  In  the  galley  the  type  appears 
only  in  columns  ;  it  is  subsequeutly  di- 
vided into  pages,  and  transferred  to  the 
"chase"  (?.«'.).     {Yvench,  ffalie.) 

Galley  Pence.  Genoese  coin  brought 
over  by  merchants  ("  galleymen  "),  who 
used  the  Galley  Wharf,  Thames  Street. 
These  pence,  or  rather  hall'i^ence,  were 
larger  than  our  own. 

Gallia  {g  hard).     France. 

'■  Impending  hangs  o'er  Gallia's  humbled  coast." 
Thomson:  Summer. 

Gall'ia  Bracca'ta  [troiiscrcrl  Gaul]. 
Gallia  Narbonen'sis  was  so  called  from 
the  "  bi'accas  "  or  trousers  which  the 
natives  wore  in  common  with  the  Scy- 
thians and  Persians. 

Gall'ia  Coma'ta.  That  part  of  Gaul 
which  belonged  to  the  Roman  emperor, 
and  was  governed  by  leg'ates  {Icga'ti), 
was  so  called  from  the  long  hair  (coma) 
worn  by  the  inhabitants  flowing  over 
their  shoulders. 

Gallice'nse.  The  nine  virgin  iiriest- 
esses  of  the  Gallic  oracle.  By  their 
charms  they  could  raise  the  wind  and 
waves,  turn  themselves  into  any  animal 
form  they  liked,  cure  wounds  aud 
diseases,  and  predict  future  events. 
(Gallic  iiujthologif.) 

Gallicism  (g  hard).  A  phrase  or 
sentence  constructed  after  the  French 
idiom;  as,  "when  you  shcdl  have  re- 
tiinted  home  you  will  find  a  letter  on 
your  table."  Government  documents 
are  especially  guiltj'  of  this  fault.  In 
St.  Matt.  XV.  32  is  a  Gallicism  :  "I  have 
comimssion  on  the  multitude,   because 


Gallicum 


498 


Garaaheu 


thcji  co»ti)iiic  with  me  now  tliree  days, 
and  have  nothing  to  eat."  (Compare 
St.  Mark  viii.  2.  ) 

Gallicum  Merleburgse.  French 
of  "  Stratford  atto  Bowe." 

"  Tliere  is  a  sprinn  wlricli  (sci  tlicy  s;iy),  if  any- 
one tastes,  lio  nnn'dcrs  liis  ?"ronch  ((Jalluc  liailia- 
flzat]  ;  SI)  tliat  wlirn  anyone  speaks  Uiat  lan.u'naf-'i- 
ill.wi'sav  lie  siu'aks  tlie  French  (if  Mai'llioningli 
[(ialliiuni  Meilelmi-ga']."-ll'(t«cc  Map. 

Galligantus.  A  giant  who  lived 
with  Hocus-Pocus  in  an  enchanted 
castle.  By  his  magic  he  changed  men 
and  women  into  dumb  animals,  amongst 
which  was  a  duke's  daughter,  changed 
into  a  roe.  Jack  the  Giant  Killer,  ar- 
rayed in  his  cap,  which  rendered  him 
invisible,  went  to  the  castle  and  read  the 
inscrijition  :  "  Whoever  can  this  trumpet 
blow,  will  cause  the  giant's  overthrow." 
He  seized  the  trumpet,  blew  a  loud 
blast,  the  castle  fell  down.  Jack  slew 
the  giant,  and  was  maiTied  soon  after 
to  the  duke's  daughter,  whom  he  had 
rescued  from  the  giant's  castle.  {Jack 
the  Glunt  KUhr.) 

Gallimaufry.    (6Vc  Galimaufeey.  ) 

Galli'pot  (//  hard)  means  a  glazed 
pot,  as  (/allclijli's  (3  syl.)  means  glazed 
tiles.  (Dutch,  (/Icipot,  glazed  pot.)  In 
farce  and  jest  it  forms  a  by-name  for  an 
apothecary. 

Gallo-Bel'gicus.  An  annual  register 
in  Latin  for  Eurojiean  circulation,  first 
published  in  1598. 

"  It  is  believed. 
And  told  for  news  with  as  mneli  diligence 
As  if  'twere  writ  in  Gallo-Belf-'icus." 

TIidiiKis  Hay  :  The  Heir.    (IGIS.) 

Galloon.     {See  Caddice.) 

Gall'oway  (//  hard).  A  horse  less 
than  fifteen  hands  high,  of  the  breed 
which  originally  came  from  Galloway  in 
Scotland. 

"  Tlirnst  him  downstairs  !  Know  we  not  C4aIlo- 
way  naf.'s  ?"-  Shakespeare :  2  Ucnrii  /I'.,  ii.  4. 

"  The  kiiifflits  and  esquires  are  well  mounted  on 
larj-'e  liay  horses,  the  common  people  on  little 
<Talhiways.'— ,S'.  Lanier:  Boys  Froissaii,  liook  i. 
chap.  xix.  p.  •::,. 

Gallowglass.  An  armed  servitor  (or 
foot-soldier)  of  an  ancient  Irish  chief. 

Gal'lus  Numidicus  (.i).  A  turkey 
cock.  Our  common  turkey  comes 
neither  from  Turkey  nor  Numidia,  but 
from  North  America. 

'■  And  bederkeil  in  borrowed  plumage,  he  struts 
over  his  pages  as  solemnly  as  any  old  Gallus 
Nuuiidicus  over  the  farmyard."— Fra.  Ollie  (1885). 

Galor'e  (2  syl.,,/7  hard).  A  sailor's 
tei-m,  meaning  "  in  abundance."  (Irish, 
ffo  leor,  in  abundance.) 

For  bis  Poll  he  had  trinkets  and  pokl  galore, 
Besides  of  prize-money  quite  a  store."' 

Jack  Robinson. 


Galvanism  (-/hard).  So  called  from 
Louis  Galva'ni,  of  Bologna.  Signora 
Galvani  in  171*0  had  frog-souji  pre- 
scribed for  her  diet,  and  one  day  some 
skinned  frogs  which  ha]>pened  to  bo 
placed  near  an  electric  maehuie  in  motion 
exhibitetl  signs  of  vitality.  'J'his  strange 
phenomenon  excited  the  curiosity  of 
the  experimenter,  who  subsequently 
noticed  that  similar  convulsive  effects 
were  produced  when  the  co]ipcr  hooks 
on  which  llie  frogs  were  strung  were 
suspended  on  the  iron  hook  of  the 
larder.  Experiments  being  carefully 
conducted,  soon  led  to  the  discovery  of 
this  important  science. 

Galway  Jury.  An  enliohtcncd, 
independent  jury.  The  expression  has 
its  birth  in  certain  trials  held  in  Ireland 
in  US'io  upon  the  right  of  the  king  to 
the  counties  of  Ireland.  Leitrim,  Kos- 
common,  Shgo  and  Mayo,  gave  judg- 
ment in  favour  of  the  Crown,  but  Galway 
opposed  it;  whereupon  the  sheiifY  was 
fined  .£1,000,  and  each  of  the  jurors 
£1,000. 

Gam.     {See  Ganelon.) 

Ga'ma  {;/  hard).  Yarco  da  Gama, 
the  Portuguese,  was  the  fii'st  European 
navigator  who  doubled  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope. 

"  Willi  sucb  mad  seas  tbe  daringfiama  fought  . . . 
Incessant  labouring  round  the  storm.v  Cape." 
Thumfun  :  SiniiiiKr. 

Tdiieo  da  Gama.  The  hero  of 
Camoens'  Lusi'iud.  He  is  represented  as 
sagacious,      intrepid,      tender-hearted, 

Eious,  fond  of  his  country,  and  holding 
is  temper  in  full  command.  He  is  al.'-o 
the  hero  of  Meyerbeer's  jiosthumous 
opera,  VAfriea'ine. 

"  (iaiua,  captain  of  the  venturous  band, 
(If  liiilil  einpri-:e.  and  licrin  for  high  cmnmand. 
Whiisc  uiarlial  llns.  with  prudeiice  close  allied. 
Ensured  the  smiles  of  fortune  on  his  side." 

Camvens:  Laaiad,  bk.  i. 

Gamaheu,  a  natural  cameo,  or  intag- 
lio. These  stones  (chiefly  agate)  contain 
natural  representations  of  plants,  laud- 
scapes,  or  animals.  Pliny  tells  us  that 
the  "Agate  of  Pyrrhus "  contained  a 
representation  of  the  nine  Muses,  with 
Apollo  in  the  midst.  Paracelsus  calls 
them  natural  talismans.  Albertus  Mag- 
nus makes  mention  of  them,  and  Gaft'a- 
ret,  in  his  Curiosiih  inoincs,  attributes  to 
them  magical  powers.  (French,  eaiiia'iea. 
from  the  oriental  ffaiiia/iina,  caniefiiiia,  or 
camebouia.) 

V  When  magic  was  ranked  as  a  science, 
certain  conjunctions  were  called  "  Ga- 
raahajan  unions." 


Gamaliel 


499 


Gammut 


Gamaliel.  In  the  Talmud  is  rather 
a  good  story  about  this  puudit.  Cajsar 
asked  Gamaliel  how  it  was  that  God 
robbed  Adam  in  order  to  make  Eve. 
Gamaliel's  daughter  iustautly  rephed, 
the  robbery  was  substituting  a  golden 
vessel  for  an  earthen  one. 

Gambo'ge  (2  syl.,  first  (7  hard,  second 
g  soft).  So  called  from  Cambo'dia  or 
Camboja,  whence  it  was  first  brought. 

Game  includes  hares,  jjlieasants, 
partridges,  gi'ouse,  heath-game,  or  moor- 
game,  black-game,  and  bustards.  (Game 
Art,  1,2,  Will.  IV.)  (&e  Si'OKTixcx 
Season.) 

Game. 

Tao  can  phvj  at  that  game.  If  yon 
claw  me  I  can  claw  you  ;  if  you  throw 
stones  at  me  I  can  do  the  same  to  you. 
The  Duke  of  Buckingham  led  a  mob  to 
break  the  windows  of  the  Scotch 
Puritans  who  came  over  with  James  I., 
but  the  Puritans  broke  the  windows  of 
the  duke's  house,  and  when  he  com- 
j)laiiied  to  the  king,  the  British  Solomon 
quoted  to  him  the  proverb,  "  Those  who 
live  in  glass  houses  shouldn't  throw 
stones." 

You  are  making  game  of  me.  You  are 
chaffing  me.  (Anglo-Saxon,  gameii, 
jest,  scoffiug.) 

Game-leg.  A  bad  or  lame  leg. 
(Welsh,  ca)ii  ;  Irish,  gaiii,  bad,  crooked.) 

Game  for  a  Spree.  Are  gou  game 
for  a  xprec  f  Ai'e  j-ovi  inclined  to  join 
in  a  bit  of  fun  ?  The  allusion  is  to 
game-cocks,  which  never  show  the  white 
feather,  but  are  always  ready  for  a  fight. 

Game  is  not  worth  the  Candle 

{Th-).     The  eft'ort  is  not  worth  making  ; 

the  result  will  not  pay  for  the  trouble. 

{Hce  Candle.) 
Game's  Afoot  {The).    The  hare  has 

started ;  the  enterprise  has  begun. 

"  I  see  you  stand  like  t'l'eyhouiuls  in  the  sliiis, 
Strainin.L,'  iti"in  tlie  start.    The  ■-tanie's  afuot ! 
FciHuw  .viHii-  spirit  I    And  mon  this  ehar.i,'e 
Cry  ■  ti.id  £"r  Harry:  England!  andSt.Cieorge.'  " 
liliakcspeare:  Henry  V.,  iii.l. 

Gam'elyn  (3  sjd.,  g  hard).  The 
youngest  of  the  three  sons  of  Sir  Johan 
de  Boundys.  On  his  death-bed  the  old 
knight  left  "five  plowes  of  land"  to 
each  of  his  two  ekler  sons,  and  the  rest 
of  his  property  to  Gamely n.  The  eldest 
took  charge  of  the  boy,  but  entreated 
him  shamefully;  and  when  Gamelyn,  in 
his  manhood,  demanded  of  him  his 
heritage,  the  elder  brother  exclaimed, 
"  Stand  still,  gadelyng,  and  hold  thy 
peace  I  "  "I  am  no  gadelyng," retorted 
the  proud  young  spirit ;  ''  but  the  lawful 


son  of  a  lady  and  true  knight."  At  this 
the  elder  brother  sent  his  servants  to 
chastise  the  youngling,  but  Gamelyn 
drove  them  off  with  "apestel."  At  a 
wrestling-match  held  in  the  neighbour- 
hood, yotmg  Gamelyn  threw  the  cham- 
pion, and  caiTied  ott'  the  i^rize  ram  ;  but 
on  reaching  home  found  the  door  shut 
against  him.  He  at  once  kicked  down 
the  door,  and  threw  the  porter  into  a 
well.  Tlie  elder  brother,  by  a  manoeuvre, 
contrived  to  bind  the  young  scapegrace 
to  a  tree,  and  left  him  two  days  without 
food;  but  Adam,  the  sjiencer,  unloosed 
him,  and  (Jamclyu  fell  upon  a  party  of 
ecclesiastics  wlio  liad  come  to  dine  with 
his  brother,  "sprinkling  holy  water  on 
the  guests  with  his  stout  oaken  cudgel." 
The  sheriff  now  sent  to  take  Gamelj'u 
and  Adam  into  custody ;  but  they  fled 
into  the  woods  and  came  upon  a  party 
of  foresters  sitting  at  meat.  The  captain 
gave  them  welcome,  and  in  time  Game- 
lyn rose  to  be  "  king  of  the  outlaws." 
His  brother,  being  now  sheriff,  would 
have  put  him  to  death,  but  Gamelyn 
constituted  himself  a  lynch  judge,  and 
hanged  his  brother.  After  this  the  king 
appointed  liini  chief  ranger,  and  he 
married.  This  tale  is  the  foundation  of 
Lodge's  novel,  called  Eu])hi(e''s  Golden 
Legacy,  and  the  novel  furnished  Shake- 
speare with  the  plot  of  As  Yoh  Like  It. 

Gammer  {g  hard).  A  corruption  of 
grandmotlier,  with  an  intermediate  form 
"  granmcr."     (See  Ilalliucll,  sub  voce.) 

Gammer    Gurton's  Needle.     The 

earHest  comedy  but  one  in  the  English 
language.  It  was  "Made  by  Mr.  S., 
Master  of  Arts."  The  author  is  said  to 
have  been  Bishop  Still  of  Bath  and 
Wells  (1543-1607). 

Gam'mon  {g  hard).  A  corruption 
oi  gamoie.  Stuff  to  impose  upon  one's 
credulity  ;  chaff.  (Anglo-Saxon,  gamen, 
scoffing;  ourc/rt;«e,  as  "  You  are  making 
game  of  me.") 

Gammon  {g  hard)  means  the  leg,  not 
the  buttock).  {French,  jambon,  the  leg, 
jambe ;  Italian,  gamba.) 

Gam'mut,  or  Gamut  {g  hard).  It  is 
gamma  at,  "  ut  "  lieing  the  first  word  in 
the  Guido-von-Arrezzo  scale  of  ut,  re, 
mi,  fa,  sot,  la.  In  the  eleventh  century 
the  ancient  scale  was  extended  a  note 
below  the  Greek  proslamban'omy  note 
(our  A),  the  first  space  of  the  bass  staff. 
The  new  note  was  termed  y  (gamma), 
and  when  "  ut "  was  substituted  by  Ar- 
rezzo  the  "supernumerary"  note  was 
called  gamma  or  ut,  or  shortly  gamm^  ut 


Gamp 


BOO 


Gangway 


.— /.f.  "Gut."  The  gammut,  therefore, 
properly  means  the  diatonic  scale  be- 
giuuiug  in  the  bass  clef  with  "  G." 

Gamp  (Mrfi.),  or  Sarah  Gamp  {(/ 
hard).  A  monthly  nurse,  famous  for  her 
bulky  umbrella  and  perpetual  refer- 
ence to  Mrs.  Harris,  a  piurely  imaginary 
person,  whose  oiiiuions  always  confirmed 
her  own.  {Dickens :  3fartin  Chuzzle- 
icit.) 

"  Mrs.  Harris,  I  says  tn  her,  if  I  could  afford  to 
l.ay  out  all  my  fellow  (TOPlurs  for  notliink,  1  would 
b'ladly  do  it.    Such  is  the  love  1  hear  cui." 

Punch  caricatures  the  Standard  as 
"Mrs.  Sarah  Gamp,"  a  little  woman 
with  an  enormous  bonnet  and  her  cha- 
racteristic mnbrella. 

A  Sarah  Gaiiip,  or  Mrs.  Gamp.  A 
big,  pawky  umbrella,  so  called  from 
Sarah  Gamp.     {See  ahore.) 

In  France  it  is  called  iin  Jiohinson, 
from  Robinson  Crusoe's  umbrella.  {De- 
foe.) 

Gamps  and  Harrises.  Workhouse 
nurses,  real  or  sujjposititious.  {Svc 
Gamp.) 

"  Mr.  Gathorne  Hardy  18  to  look  after  the  (Janips 
and  Harrises  of  Laniheth  and  the  Str.iud."— i'/ir 
Uaily  Telegraph. 

Gan'abim.  The  island  of  thieves  and 
plagiarists.  So  called  from  the  Ilrbrew 
ga)uib  (a  thief).  {Uabchnx  :  I'anlHijrael, 
iv.  66.) 

Gander  ((/hard).  WhaCs  aaucc  for 
the  [loose  is  sauce  for  the  (/anaer.  Both 
must  1)0  treated  exactly  alike.  Apple- 
sauce is  just  as  good  for  one  as  the 
other.  (Anglo-Saxon //o'.v,  related  toffon-i 
and  ffaiis.  The  d  and  r  of  gan-a  are 
merely  euphonic  ;  the  a  being  the  mas- 
culine suffix.  Thus  hnn-a  was  the  mas- 
culine of  hii).     Latin,  aiiscr.) 

Gander-cleugh.  Folly  cliff  ;  that 
mysterious  land  where  anyone  who 
makes  a  *'  goose  of  himself  "  takes  up 
his  temporary  residence.  The  hypo- 
thetical Jedediah  Cleishbotham,  who 
edited  the  Tales  of  Mij  Landlord,  lived 
there,  as  Sir  "Walter  Scott  assures  us. 

Gander-month.  Those  four  weeks 
when  the  '•  monthly  nurse  "  rules  the 
house  with  despotic  sway,  and  the  master 
is  made  a  goose  of. 

Gan'elon  (fi  hard).  Count  of  May- 
ence,  one  of  Charlemagne's  paladins,  the 
"Judas"  of  knights.  His  castle  was 
built  on  the  Blocksberg,  the  loftiest 
peak  of  the  Hartz  mountains.  Jealousy 
of  Roland  made  hian  a  traitor ;  and  in 


order  to  destroy  his  rival,  he  planned 
with  Marsillus,  the  Moorish  king,  the 
attack  of  Roncesvalli-s.  He  was  six  and 
a-half  feet  high,  with  glariug  eyes  and 
fiery  hair  ;  he  loved  solitude,  was  very 
taciturn,  disbelieved  in  the  existence  of 
moral  good,  and  never  had  a  friend.  His 
name  is  a  by-word  for  a  traitor  of  the 
basest  sort. 

"  Have  you  not  hold  me  at  such  a  distance  from 
your  (dunscls,  as  if  I  were  the  most  faithless  spy 
since  the  days  of  Uanelon  ?''— .Sir  Walter  Hcvlt : 
The  Abbot,  chap.  xxiv. 

"  You  wouhl  have  thought  him  [tJanehin]  one 
of  Attila's  Huns,  rather  than  one  of  the  iQiladiim 
of  Charlemagne's  t:»u\t."—Crvqmmiiaine,  iii. 

Ga'nem  {g  hard),  having  incuiTcd 
the  displeasure  of  Calij)!!  Harouu-al- 
Euschid,  effected  his  escaj)C  by  taking 
the  place  of  a  slave,  who  was  carrying 
on  his  head  dishes  from  his  own  table. 
{Arabian  eights''  Entertainments.) 

Gan'esa  (//  hard).  Son  of  Siva  and 
Parbutta ;  also  called  Gun]Hitty,  the 
elephiint  god.  The  god  of  wisdom,  fore- 
thought, and  prudence.  The  Mercuiy 
of  the  Hindus. 

'•('amdco  liri^'ht  and  Gancs:i  suhlime 
Shall  bless  «ilh  joy  their  own  propitious  clime." 
Vamiibell:  Plcasnren  of  JJuiie,  i. 

Gang  a-gley  {To).  To  go  wrong- 
(Scotch.) 


■  The  hcsl-laid  srhcmi 
(i.iii-:  aft  as-'lcy.", 


if  mice  and  n:en 

Jliinif 


Gang-board,  or  Gang-way  {g  hard). 
The  boai'd  or  wtiy  made  for  the  rowers 
lo  pass  from  stem  to  stem,  and  where 
the  mast  was  lai<l  when  it  was  un.shippcd. 
Now  it  means  the  board  with  cleats  or 
bars  of  wood  by  which  passengers  walk 
into  or  out  of  a  ship  or  steambotit.  A 
gang  is  an  alley  or  avenue. 

"  As  we  were  putting  oft  the  lioat  they  laid  hold 
of  the  KanglJOarU  and  unhooked  it  off  the  hoal'g 
stern."— C'oyt:  Second  Viiijage,  bk.  iii.  chap.  iv. 

Gang-day  {;i  hard).  The  day  in  Ro- 
gation week  when  boys  with  the  clergj- 
and  wardens  used  to  gang  round  the 
parish  to  beat  its  bounds. 

Gangway  ig  hard).  Beloic  the  gang- 
wag.  In  the  House  of  Commons  there 
is  a  sort  of  bar  extending  across  the 
House,  which  separates  the  Ministry  and 
the  Opposition  from  the  rest  of  the  mem- 
bers. To  sit  "below  the  gangway  "  is 
to  sit  amongst  the  general  member.s, 
neither  amoiig  the  Ministers  nor  with 
the  Opposition. 

Clear  the  gangirag.  Make  room  for 
the  passengers  from  the  boat,  clear  the 
passage.     {Sec  Gakg-boabd.) 


Granges 


501 


Gardening 


Ganges  [TIu^  is  so  named  from  gang, 
the  earth.  Often  called  Gunga  or 
Ganga. 

"Those  who,  tlivough  the  curse,  have  fallen 
from  heaven,  having'  performed  aliliition  in  this 
St:  oam,  become  free  from  pin  ;  cleansed  from  sin 
hy  this  water,  and  restored  to  haiipiness,  they 
siiall  enter  heaven  and  return.  a','aiu  to  the  gods. 
After  having  iierformcd  alilutioii  in  this  living 
water,  they  lieconie  free  from  all  iuiauity."— 'J'/ie 
Itamuijnna  (section  xxxv.). 

Ganna.  A  Celtic  prophetess,  who 
succeeded  Velle'da.  She  went  to  Rome, 
and  was  received  by  Domitian  with  great 
honours.     {Tacitus:  Aiitia/.i,  f)b.) 

Ganor  (g  hard),  Gineura  (g  soft),  or 
Guinever.     Arthur's  wife. 

Gan'ymede  (3  syl.  ;  g  hard).    Jove's 
cui^-bearer  ;  the  most  beautiful  boy  ever 
bom.     He  succeeded  Hebe  in  office. 
"  When  fianymede  above 
His  service  ministers  to  mighty  Jove." 

Uoole'a  ArUistn. 

Ga'ora.  A  tract  of  land  inhabited 
by  a  people  without  heads.  Their  eyes 
are  in  their  shoultlers,  and  their  mouth 
in  their  breast.  {IlakhtgVs  Voyages.) 
(St-e  Blemmyes.) 

Gape  (g  hard).  Looking  for  gape- 
seed.  Gaping  about  and  doing  nothing. 
A  corruption  of  "  Looking  a-gapesing ;  " 
gapcsing  is  staring  about  with  one's 
motith  open.  A-gapesiug  and  a-trapes- 
ing  are  still  used  in  Norfolk. 

Seeking  a  gape'' s  nest.  (Devonshii'e.)  A 
gape''s  nest  is  a  sight  which  jjcople  stare 
at  with  wide-open  mouth.  The  word 
"nest  "  was  used  in  a  much  wider  sense 
formerly  than  it  is  now.  Thus  we  read 
of  a  "nest  of  shelves,"  a  "  nest  of 
thieves,"  a  "  cosy  nest."  A  gape's  nest 
is  the  nest  or  place  where  anything 
stared  at  is  to  be  found.  {See  Maee's 
Nest.) 

Gar'agan'tua  {g  hard).  Tlie  giant 
tliat  swallowed  five  pilgrims  witli  their 
staves  and  all  i^  a  salad.  From  a  book 
entitled  The  Hist  org  of  Garagantua, 
1594.  Laneham,  however,  mentions  the 
book  of  Garagantua  in  l.JTo.  The  giant 
in  Rabelais  is  called  Gargautua  {q.r.). 

"  You  must  borrow  me  Cargantua's  mouth 
first  [l)efore  I  can  utter  so  long  a  word]; 'tis  a 
Word  too  great  for  any  nnuith  of  this  age's  size.' 
—Shakespeare :  As  You  Like  It,  iii.  3. 

Garagantuan.  Threatening,  bully- 
ing.    {Sec  preceding.) 

Garble  {</  hard)  properly  means  to 
sift  out  the  refuse.  Thus,  by  the  statute 
of  1  James  I.  19,  a  penalty  is  imposed 
on  the  sale  of  drugs  not  garbled.  We 
now  use  the  word  to  express  a  mutilated 
extract,  in  which  the  sense  of  the  author 
is  perverted  by  what  is  omitted.  (French, 


garhcr,  to  make  clean  ;  Spanish,  garhil- 
lar.) 

"  A  garbled  quotation  may  be  the  most  effectual 
l)erversion  of  an  anther's  meauing.'"— JtfcCos/t  ; 
Divine  Government,  \\.  14. 

V  One  of  the  best  garbled  quotations 
is  this:  David  said  (Psalm  xiv.  1), 
"There  is  no  God"  (omitting  the  jn-e- 
cediug  words,  "  The  fool  hath  said  in  his 
heart.") 

Garci'as  (g  hard).  The  soul  of  Pedro 
Garcias.  Money.  It  is  said  that  two 
scholars  of  Salamanca  discovered  a 
tomb.stone  with  this  inscription  : — ' '  Here 
Hes  the  soul  of  the  licentiate  Pedro 
Garci'as  ;  "  and  on  searching  for  this 
"soul"  found  a  purse  with  a  hundred 
golden  ducats.     {Uil  Bias,  Frcfacc.) 

Gar'darike  (4  syl.,  g  hard).  So 
Russia  is  called  ni  the  Eddas. 

Garden  (//  hard).  The  garden  of 
Joseph  of  Arimathe'a  is  said  to  be  the 
spot  where  the  rotunda  of  the  Holy 
Sepulchre  now  stands. 

The  Garden  or  Garden  Sect.  The 
disciples  of  Epicu'rus,  who  taught  in  his 
own  private  garden. 

"  Epicurus  in  his  garden  was  languid  ;  the  birds 
of  the  air  have  more  enjoyment  of  their  food." — 
Ecce  Homo. 

Garden  of  England.  Worcestershire 
and  Kent  are  both  so  called. 

Garden  of  Europe.    Italy. 

Gardoi  of  France.  Amboise,  in  the 
dejiartment  of  Indre-et-Loire. 

Garden  of  India.     Oude. 

Garden  of  Irehuid.     Carlow. 

Garden  of  Italg.     Tlie  island  of  Sicily. 

Garden  of  Sun  tit  Walis.  The  southern 
division  of  Glamorganshire. 

Garden  of  Spain.     Andalusia. 

Garden  of  the  San.  The  East  Indian 
(or  Malayan)  archipelago. 

Garden  of  the  If 'est.  Illinois  ;  Kansas 
is  also  so  called. 

Garden  of  tlie  Jforld.  The  region  of 
the  Mississippi. 

Gardener  {g  hard).  Get  on,  gar- 
dener .'  Get  on,  you  slow  and  clumsy 
coachman.  The  allusion  is  to  a  man  who 
is  both  gardener  and  coachman. 

Gardener.  Adam  is  so  called  by 
Tennyson. 

"  From  yim  blue  sky  above  us  bent, 

The  grand  (dd  gardener  and  his  wife  [Ad:im 
and' Eve] 
Smile  at  the  claims  of  long  descent." 

Lady  Clara  Vere  dc  Vere 
"Thou,  old  Adam's  likeness, 
Get  to  dress  this  garden." 

Sliakcsjieare :  Richard  IT.,  iii.  4. 

Gardening  {g  hard).  {See  Adam's 
Peofession.) 


Gargamelle 


502 


Gargantuan 


Father  of  landscape  (jarden'mg.  Lenotre 
(1613-1700). 

Gargamelle  (3  syl.,  fj  hard)  was  the 
wife  (it  ( haiigousier,  and  daughter  of  the 
kiug  of  tlio  I'arpaillons  {batierjiiea).  On 
the  day  that  she  gave  birth  to  Gargantua 
she  ate  sixteen  quarters,  two  bushels, 
three  pecks,  and  a  xnpkin  of  dirt,  the 
mere  remains  left  iu  the  tripe  which 
she  had  for  supper ;  for,  as  the  proverb 
says  — 

"  Sera  lie  tripe  as  clean  as  e'er  jou  can, 
A  titlic  of  tilth  will  still  rcinalu." 

Gunjumvlle.  Said  to  be  meant  for 
Anne  of  Brittany.  She  was  the  mother 
of  Gargantua,  in  the  satirical  romance 
of  Gargantua  and  I'antaijrucl' ,  by  Ra- 
belais. Motteux,  who  makes  "Panta- 
gruel"  to  be  Anthony  de  Bourbon,  and 
"Gargantua"  to  be  Henri  d'Albret, 
says  "Gargamelle"  is  designed  for 
Catherine  de  Foix,  Queen  of  Navarre. 
{Rabchiis,  i.  4.) 

Gargantua  {g  hard),  according  to 
Rabelais,  was  son  of  Grangousier  and 
Gargamelle.  Immediately  he  was  bom 
he  cried  out  "Drink,  drink  !  "  so  lustily 
that  the  words  were  heard  iu  Beauce 
and  Bibarois ;  whereupon  his  roj'al 
father  exclaimed,  "  Q^c  grand  ///as!" 
wliich,  being  the  first  words  he  uttered 
after  the  birth  of  the  cliild,  were  ac- 
cepted as  its  name  ;  so  it  was  called 
"  Gah-gran'-tu-as,"  corrupted  into  Gai-- 
g'an-tu-a.  It  needed  17,913  cows  to 
supply  the  babe  with  milk.  When  he 
went  to  Paris  to  finish  his  education  he 
rode  on  a  mare  as  big  as  six  elephants, 
and  took  the  bells  of  Notre  Dame  to 
hang  on  his  mare's  neck  as  jingles.  At 
the  prayer  of  the  Parisians  he  restored 
the  bells,  and  they  consented  to  feed  his 
mare  for  nothing.  On  his  way  home 
he  was  fired  at  from  the  castle  at  Vede 
Ford,  and  on  reaching  home  combed 
his  hair  with  a  comb  900  feet  long,  when 
at  every  "  rake  "  seven  bullet-balls  fell 
from  his  hair.  Being  desirous  of  a  salad 
for  dinner,  he  went  to  cut  some  lettuces 
as  big  as  Avalnut-trees,  and  ate  up  six 
])ilgrims  from  Sebastian,  who  had  hidden 
themselves  among  them  out  of  fear. 
Picrochole,  having  committed  certain 
offences,  was  attacked  by  Gargantua  in 
the  rock  Clermond,  and  utterly  de- 
feated ;  and  Gargantua,  in  remembrance 
of  this  victory,  founded  and  endowed 
the  abbey  of  Theleme  [  Tc-lame].  {Rabe- 
lais :  Gargantua,  i.  7.) 

Gargantua  is  said  to  be  a  satire  on 
Frani^ois  I.,  but  this  cannot  be  correct, 
as  he  was  born  iu  the  kingdom  of  the 


butterflies,  was  sent  to  Paris  to  tiuish 
his  educiition,  and  left  it  again  to 
succour  his  own  country.  Motteux, 
perceiving  these  difficulties,  thinks  it  is 
meant  for  Henri  d'Albret,  King  of 
Navarre. 

Gargantua'' s  marc.  Those  who  make 
Gargantua  to  be  Fran(;ois  I.  make  his 
"  great  mare  "  to  be  Mmc.  d'Estampes. 
Motteux,  who  looks  u})on  the  romance 
as  a  satire  on  the  Reform  partj%  is  at  a 
loss  how  to  apply  this  word,  antl  merely 
says,  "  It  is  some  ladj'."  Rabelais  .says, 
"She  was  as  big  as  .six  elephants,  and 
had  her  feet  cloven  into  fingers.  She 
was  of  a  bunit-sorrel  hue,  with  a  little 
mixture  of  dapple-grey  ;  but,  above  all, 
she  had  a  terrible  tail,  for  it  was  every 
whit  as  great  as  the  steeple  pillar  of 
St.  Mark."  When  the  beast  got  to 
Orleans,  and  the  wasjis  assaulted  her, 
she  switched  about  her  tail  so  furiously 
that  she  knocked  down  all  the  trees  that 
grew  in  the  vicinity,  and  Gargantua, 
delighted,  exclaimed,  "Jc  trout  e  beau 
cc!^'  wherefore  the  locality  has  been 
called  "  Beauce  "  ever  since.  The  satire 
shows  the  wilfulness  and  extravagance 
of  court  mistresses.  {Rabelais :  Gar- 
gantua and  Tanlaqruel,  book  i.  IG.) 

Gargantua\s  shepherds,  according  to 
Motteux,  mean  Lutheran  preachers  ;  but 
those  who  look  njion  the  romance  as  a 
political  satire,  think  the  Crown  ministers 
and  advisers  are  intended. 

Gargantua'' s  thirst.  Motteux  sa3\s 
the  "great  thirst"  of  Gargantua,  and 
' '  mighty  drought "  at  Pantagruel's  birth, 
refer  to  the  withhokling  the  cup  from 
the  laity,  and  the  clamour-  raised  by  the 
Ref onn  jiarty  for  the  wine  as  Avell  as  the 
bread  iu  the  eucharist. 

Gargan'tuan.  Enormous,  inordi- 
nate, great  beyond  all  limits.  It  needed 
900  ells  of  Chatelleraut  linen  to  make 
the  body  of  his  shii't,  and  200  more  for 
the  gussets ;  for  his  shoes  406  ells  of  blue 
and  crimson  velvet  were  requii-ed,  and 
1,100  cow-hides  for  the  soles.  He  could 
play  207  different  games,  picked  his  teeth 
with  an  elephant's  tusk,  and  did  everj'- 
thiiig  in  the  same  "  large  way." 

'•  It  sounded  like  a  Gargantuan  order  fur  a 
dram."— T/fC  Standard. 

A  Gargantuan  course  of  studies.  A 
course  including  all  languages,  as  well 
ancient  as  modern,  all  the  sciences,  all 
the  -ologies  and  -onomies,  together  \vith 
calisthenics  and  athletic  sports.  Gar- 
gantua wrote  to  hissonPantagruel,  com- 
manding him  to  learn  Greek,  Latin, 
Chaldaic^  Ai'abic ;  all  history,  geometry, 


Gargittios 


503 


Garrote 


arithmetic,  aud  music;  astronomy  aud 
natural  philosoi^hy,  so  that  "there  he 
nut  a  river  in  all  the  world  thou  dost 
not  know  the  uanie  of,  and  nature  of  all 
its  llshes  ;  all  the  fowls  of  the  air  :  all  the 
several  kinds  of  shrubs  aud  herbs ;  all 
the  metals  hid  in  the  bov/els  of  the 
earth  ;  with  all  gems  and  precious  stones. 
I  would  furthermore  have  thee  study  the 
TalmuJists  and  Cabalists,  and  get  a 
perfect  knowledge  of  man.  In  brief,  I 
would  have  thee  a  bottomless  pit  of  all 
knowledge."  {Itabcluis  :  I'aiilayrticl, 
book  ii.  S.) 

Gargit'tios.  One  of  the  dogs  that 
guarded  the  herds  and  flocks  of  Ger'yon, 
and  which  Hercules  killed.  The  other 
Avas  the  two-headed  dog,  named  Orthos, 
or  Ortliros. 

Gargouille,  or  Gargoil  (//  hard).  A 
water-spout  in  clnirch  architecture. 
ISometinies  also  sjielt  Gitrijijijlc.  They  are 
usually  carved  into  some  fantastic  shape, 
such  as  a  dragon's  head,  through  which 
the  water  flows.  Gargouille  was  the 
great  dragon  that  lived  in  the  Seine, , 
ravaged  Rouen,  and  was  slam  by  St. 
Itomanus,  Bishop  of  Rouen,  in  the 
seventh  century.     {Sec  Deagox.) 

Gariljaldi's  Red    Shirt.      The  red 

shirt  is  tlie  liabitual  ujjper  garment  of 
Anrerican  sailors.  Any  Liverpudlian  will 
tell  you  that  some  lifteen  years  ago  a 
Biitish  tar  might  be  discerned  by  his 
blitu  shirt,  aud  a  Yankee  "salt"  by  his 
red.  Garibaldi  first  adopted  the  Ameri- 
can shirt,  when  he  took  the  command  of 
tlic  merchantman  in  Baltimore. 

Garland  {fi  hard). 

"A  cbaplot  sliDiilil  ))?  comiioscd  i>f  fmir  rc)S-,cs 
.  .  .  :iTid  a  jjarhiiid  slicmld  lie  funiiL'J  iif  Iruirel  or 
ii:tk  le:lve^,  interspeis'il  with  acdnis."— J.  /.'. 
Cassans:  Ilandbouk  of  JleniUliij,  clial).  vii.  p.  I'l'.. 

GarUind.  A  collection  of  ballads  in 
True  Lovers'  Garland,  etc. 

Nuptial  (jarlands  are  as  old  as  the 
hills.  The  ancient  Jews  used  them, 
according  to  Selden  {Uxor  lleb.,  iii.  65;'))  ; 
the  Greek  and  Roman  brides  did  the 
same  (Vaughan,  Golden  Gron^)  ;  so  did 
the  Anglo-Saxons  aud  Gauls. 

"Tlire  onianientys  prynciiialy  to  a  wyfe :  A 
rvii'-'con  liir  fyutrei-,  a  oi-ocli  cm  Ijir  Irrest,  and  a 
garloud  on  liir  liede.  TlieryULtf  het.ikfni-i  lit- true 
l.)ve  ;  the  bruch  clennesse  in  hoitr  and  ciiastilye  ; 
tlie  f-'arlond  .  .  .  gladness  and  the  diynily  of  tlie 
sacrenient  of  wedlock."  —  ie/cmii :  Dims  and 
I'auper  (14i)3). 

Garliclc  is  said  to  destroy  the  mag- 
netic power  of  the  loadstone.  This 
notion,  though  proved  to  be  eiToneous, 
has  the  sanction  of  Pliny,  Solinus, 
Ptolemy,  Plutarch,  Albertus,  Mathiolas, 


Rueus,  Rulandus,  Renodaeus,  Langius, 
and  others.  Sir  Thomas  Browne  places 
it  among  Vulyar Errors  (bookii,  chap.  3.) 

"Martin  Rnlaudua  saitli  that  Onions  and  Gar- 
lic!c  .  .  .  hinder  the  attractive  power  [of  the 
magnet]  and  rob  it  of  its  virtue  of  drawiiij;  iron, 
to  whicli  Ueiioda'us  agrees  ;  but  this  is  all  lies."— 
If.  Hiihidin  :  The  Complete  Jinglish  J'liysician,etc., 
ehap.  x.w.  p.  is;;. 

Garnish  (.(/hard).  Entrancc-mone}', 
to  be  spent  in  drink,  demandeil  by  jail- 
birJs  of  new-comere.  In  jirisou  slang 
garnish  means  fetters,  and  garnish- 
money  is  money  given  for  the  "  honoiu" " 
of  wearing  fetters.  The  custom  became 
obsolete  with  the  reform  of  prisons. 
{French,  f/arnissae/e,  trimming,  xerh  r/ar- 
nir,  to  decorate  or  adorn.)  {See  Field- 
ing's and  Smollett's  novels.) 

Garratt  {{/  hard).  T/ie  Jfai/or  of 
Garralt.  Garratt  is  between  Wands- 
worth aud  Tooting  ;  the  first  mayor  of 
tliis  village  was  elected  towards  the  close 
of  the  eighteenth  century  ;  and  his  elec- 
tion came  about  thus  :  Garratt  Common 
had  been  often  encroached  on,  and  in 
1780  the  inhabitants  associated  litem - 
selves  together  to  defend  their  rights. 
The  chairman  of  this  association  was 
entitled  Mayor,  and  as  it  happened  to  be 
the  time  of  a  general  election,  the  society 
made  it  a  law  that  a  new  "mayor" 
should  be  chosen  at  every  general  elec- 
tion. The  addresses  of  these  mayors, 
written  by  Foote,  Garrick,  Wilkes,  and 
others,  are  satires  on  the  corruption  of 
electors  and  political  squibs.  The  first 
Mayor  of  Garratt  was  "Sir"  John 
Harijer,  a  retailer  of  brickdust  in  Lon- 
don ;  and  the  last  was  "Sir"  Harry 
Dimsdale,  muffin-seller,  in  ITDG.  Foote 
has  a  farce  entitled  llie  Mayor  of  Gar- 
ratt. 

Garraway's,  i.e.  Garraway's  coffee- 
house, in  Exchange  Alley.  It  existed 
for  216  years,  and  here  tea  was  sold,  in 
16.57,  for  16s.  up  to  50s.  a  pound.  The 
house  no  longer  exists. 

Garrof  e  or  Garotte  (2  syl.,  g  hard) 
is  the  Spanish  yarrote  (a  stick).  The  ori- 
ginal way  of  garrotting  in  Sixain  was  to 
place  tlie  victim  on  a  chair  with  a  cord 
round  his  neck,  then  to  twist  the  cord 
with  a  stiek  till  strangidation  en.sued.  In 
1851  General  Lopez  was  garrotted  by  the 
Spanish  authorities  for  attempting  to 
gain  possession  of  Cuba ;  since  which 
time  the  thieves  of  London,  etc.,  have 
adopted  tlie  method  of  strangling  their 
victim  by  throwing  their  arms  round 
his  throat,  while  an  accomiilice  rifles  his 
pockets. 


Garter 


504 


Gaunt 


Garter  (y  hard).  Knights  of  the 
Garter.  The  jjopular  legend  is  that 
Joan,  Countess  of  Salisbuiy,  accidentally 
slipjjed  her  garter  at  a  court  ball.  It 
was  picked  up  by  her  royal  partner, 
Edward  III.,  who  gallantly  diverted  the 
attention  of  the  guests  from  the  lady  by 
binding  the  blue  band  round  his  own 
knee,  saying  as  lie  did  so,  "  JIuni  soit  qui 
iiial  1/ pcHsc"  (1348). 
-  Wearing  the  garters  of  a  pi'etty 
maiden  either  on  the  hat  or  knee  was  a 
common  custom  with  our  forefathers. 
Brides  usually  wore  on  their  legs  a  host 
of  gay  ribbons,  to  be  distiibuted  after 
the  marriage  ceremony  amongst  the 
bi'idegroom's  friends-;  and  the  piper  at 
the  wedding  dance  never  failed  to  tie  a 
jnece  of  the  bride's  garter  round  his  pipe. 
If  there  is  any  trutli  in  the  legend  given 
above,  the  impression  on  the  guests 
would  be  wholly  different  to  what  such 
an  accident  would  produce  in  our  days  ; 
but  ijerhajis  the  "  Order  of  the  Garter," 
after  all,  may  be  about  tantamount  to 
"The  Order  of  the  Ladies'  Champions," 
or  "  The  Order  of  the  Ladies'  Favour- 
ites." 

Gar'vies  (2  syl.,  c/  soft).  Sprats.  So 
called  from  Inch  Garvie,  an  isle  in  tlie 
Frith  of  Forth,  near  which  they  are 
caught. 

Gascona'de  (3  syl.,  g  hard).  Talk 
like  that  of  a  Gascon— absurd  boasting, 
vainglorious  braggadocio.  It  is  said  that 
a  Gascon  being  asked  what  he  thought 
of  the  Louvre  in  Paris,  replied,  "Pretty 
well ;  it  reminds  me  of  the  back  part  of 
my  father's  stables."  The  vainglory  of 
this  answer  is  more  paljoable  when  it  is 
borne  in  mind  that  the  Gascons  were 
proverbially  poor.  The  Dictionary  of  the 
French  Academy  gives  us  the  following 
sjjecimeu:  "A  Gascon,  in  proof  of  his 
ancient  nobility,  asserted  that  they  used 
in  his  father's  house  no  other  fuel  than 
the  batons  of  the  family  marshals." 

Gaston  {ff  hard).  Lord  of  Claros, 
cue  of  Charlemagne's  paladins. 

Gastrol'ators.  People  whose  god 
is  their  bell}'.  {Rabelais :  Tantagruvl, 
iv.  58.) 

Gat-tooth  {g  hard).  Goat-tooth. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  ga-t.)  Goat-toothed  is 
having  a  lickerish  tooth.  Chaucer  makes 
the  wife  of  Bath  say,  ' '  Gat-toothed  I 
was,  and  that  became  me  wele." 

Gate  Money.  Money  paid  at  the 
gate  for  admission  to  the  grounds  where 
some  contest  is  to  be  seen. 


Gate-posts.  The  post  on  which  the 
gate  hangs  and  swings  is  called  the 
"  hanging-jjost  "  ;  tliat  against  which  it 
shuts  is  called  the  "  banging  i)ost." 

Gate  of  Italy.  That  part  of  the 
valley  of  the  Adige  which  is  in  the 
vicinity  of  Trent  and  Ilovere'dn.  A 
narrow   gorge   between    two    mountain 

ridges. 

Gate  of  Tears  [Bahilnia)i(hh].  The 
])assage  into  the  Red  Sea.  So  called  by 
the  Arabs  from  the  number  of  shipwrecks 
that  took  place  there. 

"  Like  some  ill-destined  bark  that:  steers 
]u  silence  ihnniL'h  the  (iate  of  Tears." 

T.  Moore:  Fire  Worxhipvcrs. 

Gath  {g  hard),  in  Dryden's  satire  of 
Ahsulum  ((ltd  Achituphvl,  means  Brus- 
sels, where  Charles  II.  long  resided  while 
he  was  in  exile. 

"  Had  thus  old  David  [Charles  11.]  .  .  . 
Not  dared,  when  fortune  called  hin],  to  lie  king, 
At  (iath  an  exile  he  iiiiylit  still  remain." 

TvU  it  not  in  Gath.  Don't  let  your 
enemies  hear  it.  Gath  was  famous  as 
being  the  bii'thijlace  of  the  giant  Goliath. 

"  Tell  it  not  in  Gath,  publish  it  not  in  the  streets 
of  Askelon;  lest  the  daughters  of  the  I'hilistines 
rejoice,  lest  the  daiiL'hters  of  the  uncircumcised 
tnuniiih."— :;  Sam.  i.  'jo. 

Gathered  =  (IcikL  The  Bible  phrase, 
"He  was  gathered  to  his  fathers." 

"  He  was  (for  he  is  L'alhereil)  a  little  man  with 
a  ciipiiery  comidexion."— Z*c.  Geist,  i>.  i'.'). 

Gathers  {g  hard).  Out  of  gathers. 
In  distress  ;  in  a  very  impoverished  con- 
dition. The  allusion  is  to  a  woman's 
gown,  which  certainly  looks  very  seedy 
when  "out  of  gathers" — i.e.  when  the 
cotton  that  kept  the  "pleats"  together 
has  given  way.  (Anglo-Saxon,  gadcr-ian, 
to  gather,  or  pleat.) 

Gauche  (French,  tJie  hft  hand).  Awk- 
ward. A  tck,  the  left  hand.  (6V'6'  Adroit.) 

Gaucherie  (3  syl.,  g  hard).     Things 

not  (■online  ilfaut ;  behaviour  not  accord- 
ing to  the  "received  forms  of  society ; 
awkward  and  untoward  ways.  {-"See 
above.) 

Gau'difer  {g  hard).  A  champion, 
celebrated  in  the  romance  of  Ale.raiider. 
Not  unlike  the  Scotch  Bruce. 

Gaudy-day  {A).  A  holiday,  a  feast- 
day.     (Latin  (/««rfeo,  to  rejoice.) 

Gaul  {g  hard).     France. 

"  Insulting  Gaul  has  roused  the  world  to  war." 
Thomson:  Autumn. 
"  Shall  haughtj'  Gaul  invasion  threat  ?  "—Burna. 

Gaunt  {g  hard).  John  of  Gaunt. 
The  third  sou  of  Edward  III. ;  so  called 


Gauntgrim 


505 


Gaze 


from  Ghent,  in  Flanders,  the  place  of 
his  birth. 

Gauntgrim  (//hard).    The  wolf . 

"  '  Fcir  my  part  (said  he),  I  dcm't  wonder  at  my 
ccjiisin's  ivfiisiiife'  Bruin  tlio  tiear  and  C-iauntgrini 
ilie  wiilf.  .  .  .  Bruin  is  always  in  tlie  sulks,  and 
(iaunt,i,'niii  always  in  a  i-iatJSion.' "— A'.  B.  Li/ttuu  : 
J'lU/riiii.i  iiftUe  Rhine,  cbaii.  xii. 

Gauntlet  {g  hard).  To  ri<»  the  gant- 
let. To  be  liouuded  on  all  sides.  Cor- 
ruption oi  (jatitlope,  tlie  passage  between 
two  files  of  soldiers.  (German,  (jany- 
laiifcn  or  (/(xssenlaitfoi.)  The  reference 
is  to  a  punishment  common  among 
sailors.  If  a  companion  had  disgraced 
himself,  the  crew,  provided  with  gaunt- 
lets or  ropes'  ends,  were  drawn  up  in 
two  rows  facing  each  other,  and  the 
delinquent  liad  to  run  between  them, 
while  every  man  dealt  him,  in  passing, 
as  sevei'e  a  chastisement  as  he  could. 

V  The  custom  exists  among  the  North 
American  Indians.  {See  Ferumore Cooper 
and  Ma}Tie  lleid.) 

To  tlirow  dotoi  the  gaunth-t.  To  chal- 
lenge. The  custom  in  the  Middle  Ages, 
when  one  knight  challenged  another, 
was  for  the  challenger  to  throw  his 
gauntlet  on  the  ground,  and  if  the  chal- 
lenge was  accepted  the  person  to  whom 
it  was  thrown  picked  it  up. 

"  It  is  not  for  Spain,  reduced  as  slie  is  to  the 
lowest  deurree  of  social  inanition,  to  throw  the 
gauntlet  to  the  right  and  left."— IVic  Times. 

Gauta'ma  (//  hard).  The  chief  deity 
of  Burinah,  whose  favourite  ottering  is  a 
paper  umbrella. 

The  four  subUmc  verities  of  Gauta'ma 
are  as  follows : 

(1)  Pain  exists. 

(2)  The  cause  of  pain  is  "birth  sin." 
The  Buddhist  supposes  that  man  has 
passed  through  many  previous  exist- 
ences, and  all  the  heaijed-up  sins  accu- 
mulated in  these  previous  states  consti- 
tute man's  "  birth  sin." 

(3)  Pain  is  ended  only  by  Nirva'na. 

(4)  The  way  that  leads  to  Nirvana  is 
— right  faith,  right  judgment,  right 
language,  right  jiurpose,  right  practice, 
right  obedience,  right  memory,  and 
right  meditation  (eight  in  all) . 

Gau'tier  and  Garguille  (French). 
All  the  world  and  his  wife. 

8e  mocqxcr  dc  Guiltier  et  de  Gnrguille 
(to  make  fun  of  everyone).  Gautier- 
Garguille  was  a  clown  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  who  gave  himself  unbounded 
licence,  and  provoked  against  himself  a 
storm  of  angry  feeling. 

Gau'vaine  or  Ga'wain  =  Gau-wain 
(2  syl.,  g  hard).  Sir  Gaitraine  the 
Courteous.      One   of    Arthur's    knights, 


and  his  nephew.  He  challenged  the 
Green  Knight,  and  struck  off  his  head  ; 
but  the  headless  knight  picked  up  his 
poll  again  and  walked  off,  telling  Sir 
Gauvaine  to  meet  hina  twelve  months 
hence.  Sir  Gauvaine  kept  his  appoint- 
ment, and  was  hospitably  entertained  ; 
but,  taking  possession  of  the  girdle  be- 
longing to  tlie  lady  of  the  house,  was 
chastised  by  the  Green  Knight,  confessed 
his  fault,  and  was  forgiven. 

"  The  '-'enMe  (iawain's  courteous  lore. 

Hector  de  Mares  and  Pellinore,  - 

And  Lancelot  that  evermore 

Looked  stol'uwise  on  the  ((iieen." 
Sir  \V.  Scott :  Bridal  of  'Triermain,  ii.  13. 

Gav'elkind  (g  hard).  A  tenure  in 
Wales,  Kent,  and  Northumberland, 
whereby  land  descended  from  the  father 
to  all  his  sons  in  equal  proportions.  The 
youngest  had  the  homestead,  and  the 
eldest  the  horse  and  arms. 

".■  Coke  (1  Institiite.i,  ',40  a1  says  the  word  is  (lif 
eal  eyn  (give  all  the  kin) ;  but  Lambarde  suggests 
the  Anglo-Saxon  (lafol  or  gavel,  rent  ;  and  says  it 
means  "land  which  yields  rent"!  yavel  ciiii,rrnt 
for  the  family  derived  from  land.  There  is  a 
similar  Irish  ^vord,  yabliailcine,  a  family  tenure. 

Gawain  (g  hard).     {See  Gauvaine.) 

Gawrey  (g  hard).  One  of  the  race  of 
flying  women  who  appeared  to  Peter 
Wilkins  in  his  solitary  cave.  (Hubert 
Tultoc/i  :  I'eter  IFilkiiis.) 

Gay  {g  hard).  Gag  as  the  ling''s 
candle.  A  French  plirase,  alluding  to  an 
ancient  custom  observed  on  the  Gth  of 
January,  called  the  "  Eve  or  Vigil  of  the 
Kings,"  when  a  candle  of  divers  colours 
was  burnt.  The  expression  is  used  to 
denote  a  woman  who  is  more  showily 
dressed  than  is  consistent  with  good 
taste. 

Gay  Deceiver  {A).  A  Lothario 
{q.v.) ;  a  Ubertine. 

"I  immediately  riuitted  the  precincts  of  the 
castle,  and  posted  myself  on  the  high  road,  where 
the  gay  deceiver  was  sure  to  be  uitircei'led  on 
his  return."— ie  .Saflc:  Aih-oitarcs  of  Gil  Bias 
(.Smollett's  translation).    (174!i.) 

Gay  Girl.  A  woman  of  light  or 
extravagant  habits.  Lady  Anne  Berke- 
ley, dissatisfied  with  the  conduct  of  her 
daughter-in-law  (Lady  Catherine  How- 
ard), exclaimed,  "  By  the  blessed  sacra- 
ment, this  gay  girl  will  beggar  my  son 
Henry."     {See  above.) 

"  What  evieth  you  ?    Some  pay  gurl,  Rod  it  wot, 
Hath  brought  you  thus  upon  the  very  trot"  {i.e. 
put  you  on  your  high  horse,  or  into  a  pas- 
sion).        Chaucer:  Canterbury  Talea,^,';^':. 

Gaze  (1  syl.,  g  hard).  To  stand  at 
gaze.  To  stand  in  doubt  what  to  do. 
A  tenn  in  forestry.  When  a  stag  first 
hears  the  hounds  it  stands  dazed,  look- 
ing all  round,  and  in  doubt  what  to  do. 


Gaze-hound 


506 


Geese 


Heralds  call  a  stag  which  is  represented 
full-faced,  a  "  stag  at  gaze." 

"  Tlie  American  army  in  tlic  central  states  re- 
mained wholly  at  i-'aze."— iorti  Muhun  :  History. 
"  As  the  poor  fri^'litc'd  deer,  tliat  stands  at  gaze, 

Wildly  determining  wliicli  wav  to  tly." 

SUiilU'spiarc :  lliipe  e/ iiicnrf,  11 19-50. 

Gazc-hound.     {See  Lyme  -  Hound.  ) 

Gazette  ('2  sj'l.,  //  hard).  A  iiews- 
pajier.  The  lirst  newspapers  were  issued 
ill  Venice  by  the  Government,  and  came 
out  in  manuscript  once  a  month,  during 
the  war  of  1565  between  the  Venetians 
and  Turks.  The  intelligence  was  read 
publicly  in  certain  places,  and  tlie  fee 
for  hetiring  it  read  was  one  gazctta  (a 
Venetian  coin,  somewhat  less  than  a 
fartliing  in  value). 

•.•  The  first  offlcial  En'-'lisli  n.-wsraver,  called 
The  Oifunl  Ga-itir,  was  imblislieii  in  liilL',  at  Ox- 
lenl,  where  tiie  Court  was  111 1.1.  i>n  the  rennival 
111'  the  Court  to  London,  tlie  name  wa^  cliama'd  to 
The'Loiuldit  Gazette.  Thename  wasre\  ived  in  iwci, 
during  the  Great  Fire.  Now  the  (dlleial  dazitt,-, 
IHililished  every  Tuesday  and  Friday,  contains  an- 
nouncements of  pensions,  pronniiions,  hankrupt- 
cies,  dissolutions  of  partnerships,  etc.  (See  Nkws- 

PAPERS.) 

Gazetted  (y  hard).  Published  in 
the  London  Gazette,  an  oflicial  news- 
pajier. 

Gaz  nivides]  (3  syl.).  A  dynasty  of 
Persia,  whicli  gave  four  kings  and  lasted 
lifty  years  (999-1049),  founded  by  Mah- 
mouclGazni,  whoreigned  from  the  Ganges 
to  the  Caspian  Sea. 

Gear  {g  hard)  properlynieans"  dress." 
In  machinery,  the  bands  and  wheels  that 
communicate  motion  to  the  working  part 
are  called  the  gearuKj.  (Saxon,  (jcanra, 
clothing.) 

Jit  good  gear.  To  bo  in  good  working 
order. 

Uitt  of  gear.  Not  in  Avorking  condi- 
tion, when  the  "gearing"  does  not  act 
properly  ;  out  of  liealth. 

Gee-up !  and  Gee-woo !  addressed  to 
liorses  both  mean  "Horse,  get  on." 
Gee  =  horse.  In  Notts  and  many  other 
counties  nurses  say  to  young  children, 
"Come  and  see  the  gee-gees."  There 
is  not  the  least  likelihood  that  Gee-woo 
is  the  Italian  gio,  because  gio  will  not  fit 
ill  with  any  of  the  other  terms,  and  it  is 
absurd  to  suppose  our  peasants  would  go 
to  Italy  for  such  a  word.  Woa !  or  Woo  ! 
{q.v.),  meaning  stop,  or  halt,  is  quite 
another  word.  We  subjoin  the  follow- 
ing quotation,  although  we  differ  from 
it.     {See  Come  Athek,  Woo'sh.) 

"Et  cnm  sic  gloriaretnr,  et  cogiiares  cnm 
quanta  gloria  dncerctur  ad  ilium  viruni  super 
eqnum.  (licendo  Gio  J  Gio!  cepit  pede  peroutere 
terrani  quasi  pvingeret  equuni  calcarihus."— iiin- 
logus  Creaturarum  (14«0). 


Geese  {g  hard).  (See  GandeRjGoose.) 
Creese  sace  the  eapitol.  The  tradition  is 
that  when  the  Gauls  invaded  Rome  a 
detachment  in  single  file  clambered  up 
the  hill  of  the  eapitol  so  silently  that  the 
foremost  man  reached  the  top  without 
being  challenged ;  but  while  he  was 
striding  over  the  rampart,  some  sacred 
geese,  disturbed  by  the  noise,  begiin  to 
cackle,  and  awoke  the  garrison.  Marcus 
Man'lius  rushed  to  the  wall  tiiid  liurled 
the  fellow  over  the  piecij)ice.  To  com- 
memorate this  event,  the  Komans  carried 
a  golden  goose  in  procession  to  the  eapitol 
every  year  (i^c.  ;i90). 

'•  Those  consecr;ited  gccse  in  lU'di'rs, 
That  to  the  eapitol  were  warders. 
And  l.eiu','  tlien  uiion  patrol. 
With  noise  alone  heat  off  the  CJanl.'" 

lititUr:  Uudibnix,  \\.X 

All  his  means  are  geese,  or  Ail  his  sirniis 
are  tiirued  to  geese.  All  his  expectations 
end  in  nothing  ;  all  his  boasting  ends  in 
smoke.  Like  a  person  who  ftincies  he 
sees  it  swan  on  a  river,  but  finds  it  to  be 
only  a  goose. 

Tlic  phrase  is  sometimes  reversed 
thus,  "All  liis  geese  are  swans." 
Coinmonly  applied  to  people  who  think 
too  much  of  tlie  beauty  and  talent  of 
their  children. 

Eierg  man  thiiihs  his  oicn  geese  swans. 
Everyone  is  i)rejudicetl  by  self-love. 
Every  crow  tlunks  its  own  nestling  the 
fairest.  Every  child  is  beautiful  in  its 
mother's  eyes.  [See  iEsop's  fable,  The 
Eagle  and  the  Owl.) 

Latin  :  Suiim  cuique  pulchruin.  Sua 
cuique  sponsa,  mild  meas.  Sua  cuique 
res  est  carissinia.  Asinus  asiuo,  sus  suo 
pulcher. 

German  :  Eine  glite  mutter  halt  ihre 
kinder  vor  die  sclionsten. 

Frtneh  :  A  chaque  oiseau  ron  iiid 
para  it  beau. 

Italian  :  A  ogni  grolla  iiaion'  belli  i 
suoi  grollatini.  Ad  ogni  uccello,  suo 
uido  c  bello. 

2'Iie  more  geese  the  more  lovers.  The 
French  newspaper  called  L" Europe,  De- 
cember, 1865,  rcjieats  this  proverb,  and 
says: — "  It  is  customary  in  England  for 
every  gentleman  admitted  into  society 
to  send  a  fat  goose  at  Christmas  to  the 
lady  of  the  house  he  is  in  the  habit  of 
visiting.  Beautiful  women  receive  a 
whole  magazine  ....  and  are  tlius 
enabled  to  tell  the  numlier  of  their  lovers 
by  the  number  of  fat  geese  sent  to 
them."  {The  Tf/wAt, December'27tli,186o.) 
Truly  tlie  Frenchman  knows  much 
more  about  us  than  we  ever  "  dreamt  of 
in  our  philosophy." 

Geese.    {See  Goose,  Caq  Mag.) 


Gehenna 


507 


Gender-words 


Gehen'na  (Heln-ew,  r/  liard).  The 
place  of  eternal  toniieut.  Strictly  speak- 
ing, it  means  simply  the  Valley  of  Hiii- 
nom  {Ge-HiiDwiii),  where  sacrifices  to 
Moloch  were  offered  and  where  refuse 
of  all  sorts  was  subsequently  cast,  for 
the  consumption  of  which  fires  were  kept 
constantly  burning. 

"  And  made  bis  prove 
The  iilcasant  vallev  iif  Hiiinoiii,  Toplii't  Ilieiu-e 
And  hlaik  lifhcnna  called,  t.lie  tjiie  (if  lieli." 
Hilton  :  I'ai-Lidise  Lo^t,  Ijodk  i.  403-5. 

Gel'ert  {(j  hard).  The  name  of 
Llewellyn's  dog.  One  day  a  wolf  entered 
the  room  where  the  infant  son  of  the 
Welsh  ])rince  was  asleep  ;  Gelert  flew  at 
it  and  killed  it ;  but  when  Llewellyn  re- 
turned home  and  saw  his  dog's  mouth 
bloody,  he  hastily  concluded  that  it  had 
killed  his  child,  and  thrust  it  through 
with  his  sword.  The  howl  of  the  dog 
awoke  the  child,  and  the  prince  saw  too 
late  liis  fatal  rashness.  Beth-gelert  is 
the  name  of  the  jilace  where  the  dog  was 
buried.     {!^ee  Beth-Geleet,  Dog.) 

•.•  A  Biiiiilar  story  is  tolil  of  Czar  Piras  of 
Rusda.  In  tlie  ftcsd;  I!iiiimnuiiiin  tlio  story  is 
told  of  FoUiciilus,  a  kniKlit,  hiu  instead  of  a 
serpent  the  doK  is  said  .to  liave  killed  a  wcilf. 
The  storv  occnrs  apain  in  the  Siren  Wise  Masters. 
In  till'  Sanskrit  version  tlie  dow  is  called  an  icli- 
ni-nnion  and  the  wolf  a  "  hlack  snake."  In  the 
IlitapaxIcMi,  (iv.  .3)  Ihe  doy  is  an  otter  ;  in  the 
Araliic  a  weasel  ;  in  the  Mongolian  a  pole-cat;  iu 
the  Persian  a  cat,  etc. 

Gellatley  {Dark^.  The  idiot  ser- 
vant of  the  Baron  of  Bradwardiue. 
(Sir  1J^.  Scot  I :  If^tirrlci/.)  Also  s^jclt 
Gellatly. 

Gema'ra  Qi  hard),  which  means 
"  complement,"  is  applied  to  the  second 
part  of  the  Talmud,  which  consists  of 
annotations,  discussions,  and  amplifica- 
tions of  the  Jewish  31i.s/ina.  There  is 
the  Babylonian  Gema'ra  and  the  Jeru- 
salem Gema'ni.  The  former,  which  is 
the  more  complete,  is  by  the  academies 
of  Babylon ;  the  latter  by  those  of 
Palestine. 

"Scrihcs  and  Pharisees  ...  set  little  valne  on 
the  stndy  of  the  Law  itself,  Imt  much  on  that  of 
the  coniinentaries  of  the  i-ahhis,  now  embodied 
in  the  Mislum  and  (!einarii:'—Geiklc:  Life  of 
fhiist.  Vol.  li.  eh,  xxxvi.  11.04. 

Gcmmagog.  Son  of  the  giant  Oro- 
medon,  and  inventor  of  the  Poulan 
shoes— i.^.  shoes  with  a  spur  behind, 
and  turued-up  toes  fastened  to  the 
knees.  These  shoes  were  forbidden  by 
Charles  V.  of  France  in  1365,  but  the 
fashion  revived  again.  {Diic/iat :  Ouvrcs 
lie  Rabelais.) 

"  According  to  the  same  authority, 
giants  were  great  inventors :  Erix  in- 
vented legerdemain ;  Gabbara,  drinking 
healths  ;     Gemmagog,    Poulau    shoes  ; 


Hapmouche,  drying  and  smoking  neats' 
tongues  ;  etc.  etc. 

Gems.     {See  Jewels.) 

Gendarmes.  "Men  at  arms,"  the 
armed  police  of  France.  The  term  was 
first  applied  to  those  wlio  marched  in 
the  train  of  knights  ;  subsequently  to 
the  cavalry  ;  in  the  time  of  Louis  XIV. 
to  a  body  of  horse  charged  with  the 
preservation  of  order  ;  after  the  revolu- 
tion to  a  military  jjolice  chosen  from  old 
soldiers  of  good  character ;  now  it  is 
ajiplied  to  the  ordinary  police,  whose 
costume  is  half  civil  and  half  military. 

Gender-words :  Billy,  nanny  ;  boar, 
sow  ;  buck,  doe  ;  bull,  cow ;  cock,  hen  ; 
dog,  bitch  ;  ewe,  tup  ;  groojn  =  man  ; 
he,  she  ;  Jack,  Jenny  ;  male,  female  ; 
man,  maid  ;  man,  woman  ;  master,  mis- 
tress ;  Tom ;  tup,  dam ;  and  several 
"Christian  names;  as  in  the  following 
examples : — 

Ape  :  Dog  ape,  bitch  ape. 

Aas:  Jack  ass  and  Jenny  ;  be  ass,  she  ass. 

Hear :  He  bear,  she  bear. 

Bird:  Male  bird,  fennile  bird;  cock  bird,  hen 
bird. 

Blackcock  (grouse)  ;  moorcock  iuid  hen  (led 
grouse). 

Bridegroom,  bride.  II 

C'«V;  Bull  calf,  cow  calf. 

Cut:  Tom  cat,  lady  cat,  he  and  she  cat.  ("iib 
cat  iq.v.). 

t'harwoman. 

Child:  Male  child,  female  child;  man  child, 
woman  child  (Child  is  eiilier  male  or  female,  e.\- 
cejit  w  hen  >ex  is  refeiii'il  to). 

1)1  ril  :   lie  and  she  devil  (if  sex  is  referred  to). 

JlonL;  II :  .Male  and  female  donkey.    (Hev  Ass.) 

Elephant:  Bull  and  cow  elephant;  male  and 
female  elephant. 

Fox :  Uog  and  bitch  fox  ;  tbeliitch  is  also  called 
a  vixen. 

(Jame  cock. 

(Jentleman,  gentlewoman  or  lady. 

Gaal :  Billy  and  Nanny  go.at  ;  he  and  she  goat  ; 
buck  goat. 

Hore  :  Buck  and  doe  bare. 

Heir :  Heir  male,  heir  female. 

Kin.sman,  kinswoman. 

Lamb  :  ewe  lamb,  tup  landi. 

Mankind,  womankind. 

Merman,  nierniaid. 

Milkman,  milkmaid  or  milk-woman. 

Moorcork,  moorhen. 

attrr:  Dounnil  hitch  otter. 

J'artridiie  :  (.'oik  and  hen  partridge. 

Peacock,  iieahen. 

Bhcasaiil :  I'lirk  and  hen  pheasant. 

I'iri :  Bnar  and  sow  pig. 

Itahhit :  Buck  and  doe  rabbit. 

liat :  A  Jack  rat. 

Schoolmaster,  schoolmistress. 

Seal:  Bull  and  cow.  The  bull  of  fur  seals 
under  six  years  of  age  is  called  a  "  Bachelor." 

Servant:  Male  and  female  servant;  man  and 
maid  servant. 

Singer,  songstress  ;  man  and  woman  singer. 

Sir  [John],  Lady  [Mary]. 

Sparrow:  t'ock  and  hen  sparrow. 

Swan:  A  cob  or  cock  swan,  pen-swan. 

Turkey  cock  and  hen. 

Wash  or  washer-woman. 

Whale :  Bull  or  Unicorn,  and  cow. 

Wren  :  Jenny  ;  cock  llobin  ;  Tom  tit  ;  etc. 

Wolf:  Dog  wolf,  bitch  or  she-wolf. 

V  Generally  the  name  of  the  animal 
stands  last ;  in  the  following  instances, 


General  Funk; 


508 


Geneva  Print 


however,  it  stands  before  the  gender- 
word  : — 

Blackcock  ;  liriilcproom  ;  cliarwoiiian  ;  panie- 
cock  ;  f-'ciitli-nian  and  ^'(•nllcw<.ii]aii  ;  licir  male 
and  female  ;  kliisiriaii  and  w.nian  ;  n  aiikiml, 
womankind  ;  nillUnian,  milkmaid  or  -wunian  ; 
moorcock  and  hen  :  peacock  and  li<'n  ;  servant 
man  and  maid  ;  tnrkey  rock  and  liCU  ;  wash  or 
washer-woman. 

*  ■.'  Tn  a  few  instances  the  pender-word  does 
not  exriress  gender,  as  jackdaw,  jack  iiikc,  r(je- 
buck,  etc. 

(2)  The  following  require  uo  gender- 
word  : — 

Bachelor,  siiinster  or  maid. 

Beau,  belle. 

Boar,  sow  (liiij). 

Boy,  girl  Onith  child). 

Brother,  sister. 

Buck,  doe  (stag  or  deer). 

Bull,  cow  (Idack  cattle). 

Cock,  lien  (barndoor  fowls). 

Cockerel,  imllel. 

Colt,  tlllv  Owth  foal). 

Dad,  father. 

Dog,  hitch  Uioth  dog,  if  sex  is  not  referred  to). 

Drake,  duck  (,bvth  duck,  if  se.\  is  not  referred 
to). 

Drone,  bee. 

Earl,  countess. 

Father,  mother  (both  parents). 

Friar,  nun. 

(-iatter,  gammer. 

Gander,  goose  (both  geese,  if  sex  is  not  referred 
to). 

Gentleman,  lady  (.both  gentlefolk). 

Hart,  roe  {hottt  deer;. 

Husband,  wife. 

Kiiiper,  shedder  or  baggit  (siient  salmon). 

King,  queen  ibuth  monarch  or  sovereign). 

Lad,  lass. 

MaUard,  wild-duck  (jbuth  wild  fowl). 

Man,  maid. 

Man,  woman. 

Master,  mistress. 

Milter,  spawner  (fish). 

Monk,  nun. 

Nephew,  niece. 

Papa,  niamm.'i. 

Ram,  ewe  (sheep). 

Ruff,  reeve. 

Sir,  ma'am. 

Sir  [John],  Lady  [Mary]. 

Sire,  dam. 

Shiven,  slut. 

Son,  daughter. 

Stag,  hind  a>iM  stag,  if  sex  is  not  referred  to). 

Stallion,  mare  {buth  horse). 

Steer,  heifer. 

Tup,  dam  (sheep). 

I'ncle,  aunr. 

Widow,  widower. 

Wizard,  witch. 

■.•  The  females  of  other  animals  are  made  by 
adding  a  suftix  to  the  male  (-ess, -ina, -ine,-ix, -a, 
-ee,  etc.)  ;  as,  lion,  lioness  ;  czar,  czarina  ;  hero, 
heroine  ;  testator,  tt  statrix,  etc. 

General  Funk.    A  panic. 

"The  inlliience  of  'General  Funk'  was.  at  one 
time,  far  too  prevalent  among  both  the  colonists 
and  the  younger  soldier.s."  —  jl/o)it<i(/»e;  Cum- 
pai'gning  in  South  Africa,  chap.  vi.  (1880). 

General  Issue  is  jaleadiug  "Not 
guilty  "to  a  criminal  charge;  "Never 
indebted  "  to  a  cliarge  of  debt;  the  issue 
fornied  by  a  general  denial  of  the 
plaintiff's  charge. 

Generalis'simo  ((/  soft).  Called 
TaffUN  among  the  aiicient  Thessalians, 
Brennus  among  the  ancient  Gaids,  Pen- 
dragon  among  the  ancient  Welsh  or  Celts. 


Gen'erous  {[/  soft).  Generous  as 
llatini.  An  Arabian  expression.  Hatini 
Wiis  a  Bedouin  chief  famous  for  his  war- 
like deeds  and  boundless  genero.sitj'. 
His  sou  was  contemijorary  witli  Ma- 
lioniet. 

Gcneu'ra  (//  soft).  Daugliter  of  the 
King  (if  JScofland.  Liircii'nio  ctirried 
her  (itf  captive,  and  contined  lier  in  Ids 
fatlicr's  castle.  Slip  loved  Ariodantes, 
who  being  told  tlint  she  was  ftil.se,  con- 
demned her  to  die  for  incontinence, 
unless  .'■he  fminil  it  cliiiiiipion  to  defend 
her.  Ariodantes  liimself  became  her 
chiimpion,  and,  having  vindicated  her 
innucince,  inttrried  her.  This  is  a  satire 
on  Arthur,  wliose  wife  intrigued  with 
Sir  Launcelot.    {(Jrlaiu/u  I'/irioso,  hk.  1.) 

Gene'va  (tf  soft),  contracted  into 
(I'in.  Originally  made  from  malt  and 
juniper-berries.  (Fixiich,  f/eintrre,  a  juni- 
per berry.) 

Gene'va  Bible.  The  English  ver- 
siciii  in  use  jirior  tu  the  present  one;  so 
called  bcctiiise  it  was  originally  printed 
at  Oeneva  (in  1-5G0). 

Geneva  Bible  (7V/r).  Tlie  wine  cup 
or  beer  pot.  The  pun  is  on  Geneva, 
wliidi  is  the  synonym  of  gin.  (Latin, 
bibo,  I  drink  [gin].) 

"  Kh  bien,  (iudyil,  lui  dit  le  vieux  major,  quelle 
■liable  <le  discipline  ?  Vous  avez  deja  In  la  Bible 
de  (JiMieve  ce  matin."— ifji  J'luilains  ((^crw.^c, 
part  iii.  chap.  H. 

Gene'va  Bull.  Stephen  Marshall, 
a  jireaclier  who  roared  like  a  bull  of 
Uaslian.  Called  Geneva  bectiiise  he  was 
a  disciple  of  Jolni  Calvin. 

Geneva  Courage.  Pot  vabiur ;  the 
braggadocio  wliich  is  the  effect  of  having 
drunk  too  much  gin.  Gin  is  a  corrupt 
contraction  of  Geneva,  or,  rather,  of 
f/enu'vre.  The  juniper-berry  at  one  time 
used  to  flavour  the  extract  of  malt  in 
the  m.anufacture  of  gin.  It  may  be  used 
still  in  some  quaUties  of  gin.   (6'<r  Dutch 

COTTEAGK.) 

Gene'va  Doctrines.  Calvinism. 
Calvin,  in  1.541,  was  invited  to  take  up 
his  residence  in  Geneva  as  the  public 
teacher  of  theology.  From  this  i)eriod 
Geneva  was  for  man}'  years  the  centre 
of  education  for  the  Protestant  youths 
of  Europe. 

Geneva  Print  {BeaduKj).  Drinking 
gin  or  whisky. 

"' Why,  .Tohn,'  said  the  veteran,  'what  a  disci- 
pline is  this  you  have  been  keeping?  You  have 
been  reading  Geneva  print  this  morning  already.' 
'I  have  been  readinu-  the  Ijitany.'  said  John, 
shaking  his  head,  with  a  look  of  ilrunken  grav- 
ity."—«r  W.  Scott:  Ohi  Murtdlily,  chap.  xi. 


Genevieve 


509 


Gentle 


Genevieve  (St.).  The  sainted  patron- 
ess of  the  city  of  Paris.     {i22-ol'2.) 

Genii  King.  King  Solomon  is  sup- 
posed to  preside  over  the  whole  race  of 
fi'eiiii.  {1/ ILcrbcIot :  Xvtcs  to  the  Kontii, 
c.  -1.) 

Gen'itive  Case  means  the  genus 
rase,  the  case  which  shows  the  genus ; 
thus,  a  bird  of  the  air,  of  the  sea,  of  the 
iiiiirshen,  etc.  The  part  in  italics  shows 
to  what  genus  the  bird  belongs.  Our  'a- 
is  the  adjective  sign,  the  same  as  the 
Sanskrit  sijd,  as  udaka  (water),  udaka- 
!i>ja  (of  water,  or  aquatic).  So  in 
Greek,  demos  (peoj)le),  deiiio-sios  (be- 
longing to  the  peoijle) ,  or  genitive  deiiio- 
sio,  softened  into  i/enio-''io.  In  Chaucer, 
etc.,  the  genitive  is  written  in  full,  as 
Thr  Clerl-es  Tale,  The  Cokes  Tale,  The 
Kii'ujlites  Tale,  The  Mi  I  teres  Tale,  etc. 

Ge'nius,  Genii  (Roman  mythology) 
were  attendant  spirits.  Everyone  had 
two  of  these  tutelaries  from  his  cradle 
to  his  grave.  But  the  Eoman  genii 
differ  in  many  respects  from  the  Eastern. 
The  Persian  and  Indian  genii  had  a  cor- 
]ioroal  fonn,  which  they  could  change  at 
jileasure.  They  were  not  guardian  or 
attendant  spirits,  but  fallen  angels, 
dwelling  in  Ginuistau,  under  the  do- 
minion of  Eblis.  They  were  naturally 
hostile  to  man,  though  compelled 
sometimes  to  serve  them  as  slaves.  The 
Eoman  genii  were  tutelary  spirits,  very 
similar  to  the  guardian  angels  spoken  of 
in  Scripture  (St.  Matt,  xviii.  10).  (The 
word  is  the  old  Latin  ffeiio,  to  bo  born, 
from  the  notion  that  birth  and  life  were 
due  to  these  dii  ge)iita'les.) 

Genius  (birth-wit)  is  innate  talent; 
hence  propensity,  nature,  inner  man. 
'■'■  Cras  yenium  iiiero  enra'lm''''  (to-mor- 
row you  shall  indulge  your  inner  man 
with  wine),  Horaee,  3  Odes,  xvii.  14.  ' '/«- 
datfcre  yenio''''  (to  give  loose  to  one's 
propensity),  Tersius,  v.  151.  *'  I>e- 
frauda're  (jcnium  saitin^'  (to  stint  cue's 
"appetite,  to  deny  one's  self),  Terence: 
Fhoriiiio,  i.  1.     (See  above.) 

Genius.  Tom  Moore  says  that  Common 
Sense  went  out  one  moonlight  night  with 
Genius  on  his  rambles ;  Common  Sense 
went  ou  many  wise  things  saying,  but 
Genius  went  gazing  at  the  stars,  and  fell 
into  a  river.  This  is  told  of  Thales  by 
Plato,  and  Chaucer  has  introduced  it 
into  his  Millors  'Tale. 

"  So  fei'de  another  clerk  with  astronomye : 
He  walked  in  the  feeWes  for  to  pr.ve 
Upon  the  sterres,  what  ther  shuld  liefall, 
Till  he  was  in  a  niarle  pit  i-fail." 

CiiHtcrhury  Tales,  .S,!,")'. 


il/y  evil  genius  (my  ill-luck).  The 
Romans  maintained  that  two  genii  at- 
tended every  man  from  birth  to  death — 
one  good  and  the  other  evil.  Good  luck 
was  brought  about  by  the  agency  of 
'•  his  good  genius,"  and  ill  luck  by  that 
of  his  ''  evil  genius." 

Genius  Loci  (Latin).  The  tutelary 
deity  of  a  place. 

"  1  u  the  midst  of  this  wreck  of  ancient  books  and 
utensils,  with  a  uv.w  iiy  ciiiinl  to  [that  of]  Mariiis 
aiiiontr  the  niiiis  nf  (':(iih:i^i\  snt  a  lar^'e  lilack 
cal,  whicii.lo  :i  mi  |m  i>i  n  imus  eye,  niii-'ht  haye 
prescnieil  the  iidiiu.-  i,<,i.  \\\r  tulclar  driiioii  of 
the  ai':utliieiit."-.S()-  II.  Nl"»  ;  Tin-  AntiqiKinj, 
chap.  iii. 

Gen'oa,  from  the  Latin,  r/enu^  (the 
knee)  ;  so  called  fr.'.rn  the  bend  made 
there  by  the  Adriatic.  The  whole  of 
Italy  is  called  a  man's  leg,  and  this  is 
his  knee. 

Genove'fa  (g  soft).  Wife  of  Count 
Palatine  Siegfried,  of  Brabant,  in  the 
time  of  Charles  Mart  el.  Being  su.spected 
of  infidelity,  she  was  driven  into  the 
forest  of  Ardennes,  where  she  gave  birth 
to  a  son,  who  was  nourished  by  a  white 
doe.  In  time,  Siegfried  discovered  his 
error,  and  restored  his  wife  and  child  to 
their  proper  home. 

Genre  Painter  (genre  1  syl.).  A 
painter  of  domestic,  rural,  or  village 
scenes,  such  as  A  Village  Wedding,  'J'hc 
Young  Iteerait,  Blind  Plan's  Bajf,  The 
Village  Folitician,  etc.  It  is  a  French 
term,  and  means,  "  Man  :  his  customs, 
habits,  and  ways  of  life."  Wilkie,  Ostade, 
Gei-ardDow,  etc.,  belonged  to  this  class. 
In  the  drama,  Victor  Hugo  introduced 
the  genre  system  in  lieu  of  the  stilted, 
unnatural  style  of  Louis  XIV. 's  era. 

'•  We  call  thoFo  '  penre'  canvases,  whereon  are 
laiiited  idvls  of  the  tireside,  the  roadside, and  the 
farm  ;  pictiins  of  rial  life."— £.C..S((;((i)(aji:  Poets 
of  Jiinrica,  cliap.  iv.  p.  iw. 

Gens  Braccata.  Trousered  peoiile. 
The  Romans  wore  no  trousers  like  the 
Gauls,  Scythians,  and  Persians.  The 
Gauls  wore  "braccse"  and  were  called 
Gens  hraecdta. 

Gens  Togata.  The  nation  which 
wore  the  toga.  The  Greeks  wore  the 
' '  pallium  ' '  and  were  called  Gens  pal- 
liata. 

Gentle  (g  soft)  means  having  the 
manners  of  genteel  persons— i.^*.  iJersons 
of  family,  called  gens  in  Latin. 

"  We  must  be  gentle,  now  we  are  gentlemen.'"— 
Shakespeare :  Winter's  Tale,  v.  1!. 

The  gentle  craft.  The  gentleman's 
trade,  so  called  from  the  romance  of 
Prince  Crispin,  who  is  said  to  have  made 
shoes.     It  is  rather  remarkable  that  the 


Gentle  Shepherd 


510 


George 


"gentle  craft"  should  be  closely  cou- 
nected  with  our  s)iob  (q.r.). 
"Here  Hans  Saclis,  the  cobbler  poet,  laureate 
of  tlie  frentle  craft, 
Wisest  of  the  Twelve  Wise  Masters,  lu  hut-'e 
folios  saiiK  and  lauf-'hed." 

Lunyfellow  :  ^'ln■cmba■g.  stanza  10. 

T/ic  gentle  craft.  Augliug.  The  puu 
is  ou  (jcntle,  a  maggot  or  grub  used  for 
buitiug  the  hook  in  angling. 

Gentle  Shepherd  (7'Ar).  (ieorgc 
(ircnvillp,  the  statesman,  a  niekntime 
derived  from  a  line  applied  to  him  by 
Pitt,  afterwards  Earl  of  Chatham.  Greu- 
ville,  in  the  course  of  one  of  his  speeches, 
addressed  the  House  interrogatively, 
"Tell  me  where  i"  tell  me  where  r" 
Pitt  hummed  a  line  of  a  Foug  then 
very  popular,  "Gentle  shepherd,  tell  me 
where:"'  and  the  House  burst  into 
laughter  (1712-17'20). 

Gentleman  {()  soft).  A  translation 
of  the  French  ijciilillioiiuiie,  one  who 
belongs  to  the  f/ciis  or  stock.  According 
to  the  Roman  law,  gens-men,  or  gentle- 
men, were  those  only  who  had  a  family 
name,  were  bom  of  free  iitireuts,  had  no 
slave  in  their  ancestral  line,  and  had 
never  been  degraded  to  a  lower  rank. 

AijcntkiuHn  ofihcfoio-  oiita.  A  vulgar 
upstart,  with-oiit  manners,  wiih-oul  wit, 
vith-out  money,  and  with-oHt  credit. 

Gentlemen   of  Paper  and  Wax. 

The  first  of  a  new  line  ennobled  with 
knighthood  or  other  dignity,  to  whom 
are  given  titles  and  coat-annour.  They 
are  made  ' '  gentlemen ' '  by  j)atent  and  a 
seal. 

Geoffrey  Crayon.  The  hypothetical 
author  of  tlie  tSkctch  Book.  Washing- 
ton Irving,  of  New  York  (1783-1859). 

Geology  (g  soft).  The  father  of 
gcologij.     William  Smith  (1769- 18-10). 

Ge'omancy  (r/  soft).  Divining  by  the 
earth.  So  tenned  because  these  diviners 
in  the  sixteenth  centmy  drew  on  the 
earth  their  magic  circles,  figures,  and 
lines.  (Greek,  ge,  the  earth ;  mantei'a, 
prophecy.) 

Geometry  {g  soft)  means  laud-mea- 
suring. The  first  geometrician  was  a 
ploughman  pacing  out  his  field.  (Greek, 
ge,  the  earth  ;  metrcn,  a  measm-e.) 

George  II.  was  nicknamed  "Prince 

Titi."     (.SVtTiTi.) 

George  III.  was  nicknamed  ' '  Farmer 
George,"  or  "  The  Farmer  King."  [See 
Faemee.) 

George  IV.  was  nicknamed  "The 
First  Gentleman  of  Europe,"  "  Fum 
the  Fourth,"  "Prince  Florizel,"  "The 


Adonis  of  fifty,"  and  "  The  Fat  Adonis 
of  fift}'."     {Hre  eavit  of  these  iiirlnidiius.) 

George,  Mark,  John  (^V.).  Nos- 
trtidamus  wrote  in  I'lGG  : 

"  (^iiaiicl  (ieorges  Dicii  orucifeia, 
(,)iie  Marc  le  ressiicilcra, 
Kt  (|iu"  St.  Jean  le  portera, 
La  111!  ilii  nionile  arriveia. ' 

In  1S8G  St.  Georges  day  fell  on  Good 
Friday,  St.  Mark's  day  on  Easter  Sun- 
day, and  St.  John's  day  ou  Corpus 
Christi— but  "the  end  of  the  world"  did 
not  then  arrive. 

George  {St.)  (</  soft).  Gibbon,  in  his 
])<eliiii-  iiitd  Fall,  ii.  '.i'l'.i,  tisserts  that  tlio 
patron  saint  of  Eugliind  was  (ieorge 
of  Ca])iiadoci;i,  the  turbulent  Arian 
Bishop  of  Alexiindria,  torn  to  jiieccs  by 
the  poiiuhice  in  3(30,  and  revered  ;is  a 
saint  by  the  o]ipoucnts  of  Athanasins  ; 
but  this  a*;scrtion  has  been  fully  dis- 
proved by  the  Jesuit  Pai)ebroch,  Milnei-, 
and  others. 

Thiit  St.  George  is  a  veritable  charac- 
ter is  beyond  all  reasontible  doubt,  and 
there  seems  no  reason  to  deny  that  ho 
Wixs  bom  in  Armor'ica,  and  was  be- 
headed in  Diocletian's  persecution  by 
order  of  Datitinus,  April  23rd,  303.  St. 
Jerome  (331-420)  mentions  him  in  one 
of  his  martyrologies ;  in  the  ne.xt  cen- 
tury there  were  many  churches  to  his 
honour.  St.  (Jregory  (510-GOl)  lias  in 
his  Saci'amentary  a  "Preface  for  St. 
George's  Daj' ;  "  and  the  Venerable  Bcdo 
(672-735),  in  his  martyrology,  says,  "  At 
last  St.  George  truly  tinishcd  his  martyr- 
dom by  decapitation,  although  the  gests 
of  his  passion  are  numbered  among  the 
apocryphal  writings." 

In  regard  to  his  connection  with  Eng- 
land, Ashmole,  in  his  llixtorg  of  the 
Order  of  the  Garter,  says  that  King 
Arthur,  in  the  sixth  centurj',  placed  the 
picture  of  St.  George  on  his  banners ; 
and  Selden  tells  us  he  was  patron  saint 
of  England  in  the  Saxon  times.  It  is 
quite  certain  that  the  Council  of  Oxford 
in  1222  commanded  his  festival  to  be  ob- 
served in  England  as  a  holidaj-  of  lesser 
rank  ;  and  on  the  establishment  of  the 
Order  of  the  Garter  by  Edward  III.  St. 
George  was  adopted  as  the  patron  saint. 
The  dragon  slain  by  St.  George  is 
simply  a  common  allegory  to  express  the 
triumph  of  the  Christian  hero  over  evil, 
which  John  "  the  Divine  "'  beheld  under 
the  image  of  a  dragon.  Similarly,  St. 
Michael,  St.  Margaret,  St.  Silvester,  and 
St.  Martha  are  all  depicted  as  slaying 
dragons  ;  the  Saviour  and  the  Virgin  as 
treading  them  under  their  feet ;  and 
St.  John  the  Evangelist  as  charming  a 


George , 


511 


George  Sand 


winged  dragon  from  a  poisoned  chalice 
given  him  to  drink.  Even  John  Bimyau 
avails  himself  of  the  same  figure,  when 
he  makes  Christian  encounter  Apollj'on 
and  prevail  against  him. 

Gcorye  (W.),  the  Red  Cross  Knight  (in 
Spenser's  Facr'w  Qiiccnc,  bk.  i.),  repre- 
sents "Piety."  He  starts  with  Una 
(Truth)  in  his  advcntui-cs,  and  is  driven 
into  Wandering  Wood,  where  he  en- 
counters Error,  and  pa.«ses  the  night 
with  Una  in  Hypocrisy's  cell.  Being 
visited  by  a  false  vision,  the  knight 
abandons  Una,  and  goes  with  Dues^sa 
(False-faith)  to  the  palace  of  Pride. 
He  leaves  this  palace  claudestinelj',  but 
being  overtaken  by  Duessa  is  persuaded 
to  drhik  of  an  enchanted  fountain,  when 
he  becomes  j)aralysed,  and  is  taken  cap- 
tive by  Orgoglio.  Una  informs  Arthur 
of  the  sad  event,  and  the  prince  goes  to 
the  rescue.  He  slays  Orgoglio,  and  the 
Eed  Cross  Knight,  being  set  free,  is 
taken  by  Una  to  the  house  of  Holiness 
to  be  healed.  On  leaving  Holiness,  both 
Una  and  the  knight  journey  towards 
Eden.  As  they  draw  near,  the  dragon 
porter  flies  at  the  knight,  and  tSt.  George 
has  to  do  battle  with  it  for  three  whole 
days  before  ho  succeeds  in  slaying  it. 
The  dragon  being  slain,  the  two  enter 
Eden,  and  the  Red  Cross  Knight  is 
united  to  Una  in  marriage. 

iSV.  Geoi-fje  and  the  Brar/on.  According 
to  the  ballad  given  in  Percy's  Itdiqucs, 
St.  George  was  the  son  of  Lord  Albert 
of  Coventry.  His  mother  died  in  gi\'ing 
him  birth,  and  the  new-bom  babe  was 
stolen  away  by  the  weird  lady  of  the 
woods,  who  brought  him  up  to  deeds  of 
anns.  His  body  had  three  marks ;  a 
dragon  on  the  breast,  a  garter  round  one 
of  the  legs,  and  a  blood-red  cross  on  the 
arm.  When  he  grew  to  manhood  he 
first  fought  against  the  Saracens,  and 
then  went  to  Syle'ne,  a  city  of  Libya, 
where  was  a  stagnant  lake  infestel  by 
a  huge  dragon,  whose  poisonous  breath 
''had  many  a  city  slain,"  and  whose 
hide  "  no  spear  nor  sword  could  pierce."' 
Every  day  a  virgin  was  sacrificed  to  it, 
and  at  length  it  came  to  the  lot  of  Sabra, 
the  king's  daughter,  to  become  its  victim. 
She  was  tied  to  the  stake  and  left  to  be 
devoured,  when  St.  George  came  up,  and 
vowed  to  take  her  cause  in  hand.  On 
came  the  dragon,  and  St.  George,  thrust- 
ing his  lauce  into  its  mouth,  killed  it  on 
the  spot.  The  king  of  Morocco  and  the 
king  of  Egypt,  unwilling  that  Sabra 
should  marry  a  Christian,  sent  St.  George 
to  Persia,  and  directed  the  "sophy"  to 
kill  him.     He  was  accordingly  thrust 


into  a  dungeon,  but  making  good  his 
escape,  carried  off  Sabra  to  England, 
where  she  became  his  wife,  and  they 
lived  happily  at  Coventry  together  till 
their  death. 

V  A  very  similar  tale  is  told  of 
Hesione,  daughter  of  Laomcdou.  ("See 
Hesione,  Sea  Monstees.) 

St.  Gctiryr  he  iras  for  F.ii<il(!)>(l,  St. 
Deu'tn  U'as  for  Frdiiee.  This  refers  to 
the  war-cries  of  the  two  luitions — that 
of  England  was  "  St.  George  !  "  that  of 
France,  "  Montjoye  St.  Denis!  " 
"  Our  iuu'ient  word  uf  ((lunigc.  fair  '  St.  (icur.'rc,' 

lusiiiic  r.g  with  llie  spleen  uf  llei'y  drau'diis." 
SlHilccspeare:  Ilichard  III.,  v.  3. 

TFhen  St.  George  <jocs  on  horsebaek  <S?. 
Yrcs  (joes  on  foot.  In  times  of  war 
lawyers  have  nothing  to  do.  St.  George 
is  the  patron  of  soldiers,  and  St.  Ives  of 
lawyers. 

<SY.  George' ti  Arm.  The  Hellespont  is 
so  called  by  the  Catholic  Church  in 
honour  of  St.  George,  the  patron  saint  of 
England.   {Fapebroeh  :  Aetesdes  Saints.) 

St.  George'''!  Channel.  An  arm  of  the 
Atlantic,  separating  Ireland  from  Great 
Britain  ;  so  called  in  honour  of  St. 
George,  referred  to  above. 

St.  George'' s  Cross.  Red  on  awhite  field. 

St.  George's  Day  (April  2;ird).  A  day 
of  deception  and  oppression.  It  was 
the  day  when  new  leases  and  contracts 
used  to  be  made. 

George  a'  Green.  As  good  as  George 
rt'  Green.  Resolute-minded;  one  who 
will  do  his  duty  come  what  ma}'.  George 
a'  Green  was  the  famous  piuder  or 
jjound-keeper  of  Wakefield,  who  re- 
sisted Robin  Hood,  Will  Scarlett,  and 
Little  John  single-handed  when  they 
attempted  to  commit  a  trespass  in  Wake- 
field. " 

'•  Wei-e  ye  bold  as  Georpe-a-Green, 
I  bliall  make  l)cild  to  tuni  a^'ain." 

Hainuel  Dvtlcr :  Hudibras. 

George  Eliot.  The  literary  name 
of  Marian  Evans  [Lewes],  authoress  of 

Adam  Bcde,  Mill  vn  the  F/os-'^,  Felix- 
Holt,  etc. 

George  Geith.  Theliero  cf  a  novel 
by  Mrs.  Traiford  [Riddell].  He  is  one 
who  will  work  as  long  as  he  has  breath 
to  draw,  and  would  die  in  harness.  He 
woukl  fight  against  all  opposing  cir- 
cumstances wliile  he  had  a  drop  of  blood 
left  in  his  veins,  and  may  T^e  called  the 
model  of  untiring  industry  and  indomit- 
able moral  courage. 

George  Sand.  The  pen-name  of 
Mme.  Dudevant,  born  at  Paris  1804. 
Her  maiden  name  was  Dupin. 


George  Street 


512 


Gerst-Monat 


George  Street  (Strand,  London) 
coninieuccs  the  precinct  of  an  ancient 
mansion  which  originally  belonged  to 
the  bishops  of  Norwich.  After  passing 
successively  into  the  possession  of 
Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  the 
archbishops  of  York,  and  the  Crown, 
it  came  to  George  Villiers,  Duke  of 
Buckingham.  Tlie  second  Duke  of 
Buckiugliam  pulled  down  the  mansion 
and  built  the  streets  and  alley  called  re- 
spectively "  George"  (street),  "Villiers" 
(street),  "  Duke  "  (street),  "  Of  "  (alley), 
and  "Buckingham"  (street). 

Geraint'  (.'/  hard).  Tributary  Prince 
of  Devon,  and  one  of  the  knights  of  tlie 
Round  Table.  Overhearing  part  of 
E'nid's  words,  he  fancied  she  was  faith- 
less to  him,  and  treated  her  for  a  time 
very  harshly  ;  but  Enid  nursed  him  so 
carefully  when  he  was  wounded  that 
he  saw  his  error,  "  nor  did  he  doubt  her 
more,  but  rested  in  her  fealty,  till  he 
crowned  a  happy  life  with  a  fair  death." 
(Tcniii/son  :  Idi/lh  of  tlic  King  ;  Enid.) 

Geraldine  (3  syl.,  p  soft).  The  Fair 
Gerald  I  )u\  Lady  Elizabeth  Fitzgerald 
is  so  called  in  the  Earl  of  Surrey's  poems. 

Gera'nium  {jj  soft) .  The  Turks  say 
this  was  a  common  mallow  changed  by 
the  touch  of  Mahomet's  garment. 

The  word  is  from  the  Greek  geritiios 
(a  crane)  ;  and  the  i>lant  is  called 
"  Crane's  Bill,"  from  the  resemblance 
of  the  fruit  to  the  bill  of  a  crane. 

Gerda  (17  Tiard).  Wife  of  Frey,  and 
daughter  of  the  frost  giant  Gj'mer.  She 
is  so  beautiful  that  the  brightness  of  her 
naked  arms  illuminates  both  air  and  sea. 
Frey  (the  genial  spring)  married  Gerda 
(the  frozen  earth),  and  Gerda  became 
the  mother  of  children.  {Scandinavian 
in  yth(ilo(i  ij .) 

German  or  Germaine  (r/  soft) .  Per- 
taining to,  related  to,  as  cimnins-german 
(first  cousins),  gcrman  to  the  subject 
(bearing  on  or  jiertinent  to  the  subject). 
This  word  has  no  connection  with 
German  (the  nation),  but  comes  from 
the  Latin  gcrma'niis  (of  the  same  germ 
or  stock).  First  cousins  have  a  grand- 
father or  grandmother  in  common. 

"Those  that  are  germaine  to  liim,  though  re- 
moved ^f^y  times,  shall  all  come  under  the 
hansmaii."— Sfta/icspcnre;  IV'mtei-'s  Tale,\\'.Z. 

German.  Jehan  de  Maire  says, 
"Germany  is  so  called  from  Csesar's 
sister  Germana,  wife  of  Salvius  Brabon." 

Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  says  that 
Ebrancus,    a    mythological    descendant 


of  Brute,  King  of  Britain,  had  twenty 
sons  and  thirty  daughters.  All  the 
sous,  except  the  eldest,  settled  in  Ger- 
many, wliich  was  therefore,  called  the 
land  of  the  Germans  or  brothers.  {See 
above.) 

''  lEbranU.']  An  happy  man  in  his  fiisl  days  he  was, 
And  liapiiy  father  of  fair  iinitreny  ; 
F(ir  all  so  many  weeks  as  the  year  has 
So  many  i-hildren  lie  did  muliiidy  ! 
Of  which  were  twenty  sons,  wliicli  did  anjily 
Their  minds  to  praise  ami  riiivalroiis  desire. 

These  L-ermans  did  snlidue  all  (jermany, 
Of  whom  it  hight.  .  .  ." 

Spenser  :  Faerie  Qiierne,  ii.  in. 
•.■  rrohalilv  the  nameis(ier-man.  meanini;  "  war- 
man."  The'ciermans  call  themselves  /iinlsrh-i'ii, 
which  is  the  same  as  Tent-on,  witli  tlie  initial 
letter  Hal  tened  into  I),  ami  "  Tent  "  means  a  nml- 
titiide.  Theltoinans  called  the  people  (Jcrmana 
at  least -Jio  years  before  the  Christ  Ian  era,  for  III 
l.")J7  a  talilcY  (dated  n.c.  L'L-J i  was  discoxered,  re- 
cordiiiL'  tlie  victories  of  tlie  Consul  Marcelhis 
over  Veridomar,  "general  of  the  Gauis  and 
tiermans." 

Father  of  German  literature.  Gott- 
hold  Ei)hr;iim  Les.snig.     (1729-1781.) 

German  Comb.  The  four  fingers 
and  thumb.  "  Sc  pggiunt  du  }>ggnc 
d'Almaing"  {Rctbclais),  Ho  combed  his 
hair  with  his  fingers.  Oudin,  in  his  J)ic- 
iionnaire,  explains  pggne  d'A/eman  by 
"fo«  dedos  ct  la  dita.'^  The  Gennans 
were  the  last  to  ado))t  periwigs,  and 
while  the  French  were  never  seen  with- 
out a  comb  in  one  hand,  the  Gennans 
adjusted  their  hair  by  running  their 
fingers  through  it. 

"  He  apiBirelled  himself  according  to  the  season, 
and  afterwards  combed  his  head  with  an  AInian 
i:inn\\"  —  Rabelais  :  Garyiuitaa  and  J'antayruel, 
hook  i.  I'l. 

German  Silver  is  not  silver  at  all, 
but  white  copper,  or  copper,  zinc,  and 
nickel  mixed  together.  It  was  first  made 
in  Europe  at  Hildberg-hausen,  in  Ger- 
many, but  had  been  used  by  the  Chinese 
time  out  of  mind. 

Gerryman'der  {g  hard).  So  to 
divide  a  county  or  nation  into  repre- 
sentative districts  as  to  give  one  special 
political  party  undue  advantage  over 
others.  The  word  is  derived  from 
Elbridge  Gerry,  who  adopted  the  scheme 
in  Massachusetts  when  he  was  governor. 
Gilbert  Stuart,  the  artist,  looking  at  the 
map  of  the  new  distribution,  with  a 
little  invention  converted  it  into  a  sala- 
mander. "  No,  no  !  "  said  Bussell,  when 
shown  it,  "not a  Sala-mander,  Stuart; 
call  it  a  Gerry-mander." 

V  To  gerrymander  is  so  to  hocus- 
pocus  figures,  etc.,  as  to  affect  the 
balance. 

Gerst-Monat.  Barley-mouth.  The 
Anglo-Saxon  name  for  September;  so 
allied  because  it  w^as  the  time  of  barley- 
beer  making. 


Gertrude 


51? 


Gewgaw 


Ger'trude  (2  syl.,  g  hard).  Hamlet's 
mother,  wlio  married  Claudius,  the 
murdcier  of  her  late  husband.  She  in- 
advertently poisoned  herself  by  drink- 
ing a  ijotiou  prepared  for  her  son. 
{iShaliCspcare  :  JIainlet.) 

Gertrude  {St.),  in  Christian  art,  is 
sometimes  represented  as  surrounded 
with  rats  and  mice ;  and  sometimes  as 
sijinning,  the  rats  and  mice  running 
about  her  distaff. 

Gertrude  of  Wyo'ming.  The  name 
of  one  of  Caraiibell's  poems. 

Gervais  {St.).  The  French  St. 
Svvithin,  June  19th.     {See  Swithin.) 

In  17'Jo,  BuUiot,  a  Frenrli  banker,  made  a  bet 
tliat,asit  rained  an  St.  eiervais's  l)av,  it  would 
rain  more  or  less  for  forty  d:iys  afterwards.  Tlie 
bet  was  taken  bv  so  many  iieople  tliat  the  entire 
liroperty  nf  Hulliot  was  liledL-i-d.  The  liet  was 
lost,  and  tUc  banker  was  utterly  ruined. 

Ger'yon  {(/  hard).  A  human  monster 
with  three  bodies  and  three  heads, 
whose  oxen  ate  human  flesh,  and  were 
guarded  by  a  two-headed  dog.  Hercules 
slew  both  Geryon  and  the  dog.  This 
fable  means  simply  that  Geryon  reigned 
over  three  kingdoms,  and  was  defended 
by  an  ally,  who  was  at  the  head  of  two 
tribes. 

Geryon'eo.  A  giant  with  three 
bodies ;  that  is,  Philip  II.  of  Sj^ain, 
master  of  three  kingdoms.  {Spenser  : 
Faerie  Q/ieeiie,v.  11.) 

Ges'mas   {{/  hard).     {See  Desmas.) 

Gess'ler  (y  hard).  The  Austrian 
governor  of  the  three  Forest  Cantons 
of  Switzerland.  A  man  of  most  brutal 
nature  and  t}a'annical  disposition.  He 
attemjitcd  to  carry  off  the  daughter  of 
Leuthold,  a  Swiss  herdsman  ;  but  Lcut- 
hold  slew  the  ruffian  sent  to  seize  her, 
and  fled.  This  act  of  injustice  roused 
the  people  to  rebellion,  and  Ges.sler, 
having  put  to  death  Melch'tal,  the  patri- 
arch of  the  Forest  Cantons,  insulted  the 
people  by  commanding  them  to  bow 
down  to  his  cap,  hoisted  on  a  high  pole. 
Tell  refusing  so  to  do,  was  arrested  with 
his  son,  and  Gessler,  in  the  refinement 
of  cruelty,  imposed  on  him  the  task  of 
shooting  with  his  bow  and  arrow  au 
apple  from  the  head  of  his  own  son. 
Tell  succeeded  in  this  dangerous  skill- 
trial,  but  in  his  agitation  dropped  an 
aiTow  from  his  robe.  The  governor 
insolently  demanded  what  the  second 
arrow  was  for,  and  Tell  fearlessly  re- 
plied, "  To  shoot  you  with,  had  I  failed 
in  the  task  imposed  upon  me."  Gessler 
now  ordered  him  to  be  carried  in  chains 
across  the  lake,  and  cast  into  Kusuacht 

33 


castle,  a  prey  "  to  the  reptiles  that  lodged 
there."  He  was,  however,  rescued  by 
the  peasantry,  and,  having  shot  Gessler, 
freed  his  country  from  the  Austrian 
yoke. 

Gesta  Romano'rum  {(/  soft),  com- 
piled by  Pierre  Berclieur,  prior  of  the 
Benedictine  convent  of  St.  Eloi,  Paris, 
published  by  the  Roxburgh  Society. 
Edited  by  Sir  F.  Madden,  and  afterwards 
by  S.  J.  Herrtage. 

Geste  or  Gest  {(/  soft).  A  story, 
romance,  achievement.  From  the  Latin 
l/esta  (exploits). 

"The  scene  of  tbeser/f.sto being  laid  in  ordinary 
life." — t'tjclDpcpdia  Brihiii,  (Itoiiiancc). 

Get  {To).  To  gain;  to  procure;  to 
obtain. 

"  Get  wealth  and  place,  if  possible  with  prace  ; 
If  not,  b.v  any  means  get  wealth  and  place." 

Horace  {Satires)  says  : — "  Rem  facis, 
recte  si  possis  ;  si  non,  rem  facis." 

Get,  Got.     (Anglo-Saxon,  git-an.) 

"  I  f-'ot  on  liorseliack  within  ten  minutes  after  I 
got  your  letter.  When  I  got  toC'anterliury  1  got 
a  chaise  for  town  ;  but  I  got  wet  through,  and 
have  got  such  a  cold  that  I  shall  not  uet  rid  of  in 
a  hurry.  I  got  to  the  Treasury  about  noon,  but 
llrst  of  all  got  shaved  and  dressed.  I  soon  got 
into  the  secret  of  getting  a  memorial  before  the 
Board,  but  I  could  not  get  an  answer  then  ;  how- 
ever, I  got  intelligence  from  a  messenger  that  I 
should  get  one  next  morning.  As  soon  as  I  got 
back  to  my  inn,  I  got  my  supper,  and  iIh'U  got  to 
bed.  When  I  got  up  next  morning,  1  got  my 
breakfast,  and,  having  got  dressed,  1  got  out  in 
time  to  get  an  answer  to  my  memorial.  As  soon 
as  1  got  it,  1  got  into  a  chaise,  and  got  hack  lo 
Canterhnry  by  three,  and  got  home  for  tea.  I 
have  got  nothing  for  you,  and  so  adieu."— i)r. 
Withiis. 

Get  by  Heart  ( To) .  To  commit  to 
memory.     In  Frenclt,  '■^  Apprendre  une 

chose  par  ca'ur." 

Get  One's  Back  Up  {To).  To  show 
irrittition,  as  cats  set  up  their  backs 
when  angry. 

Get-up  {A).  A  style  of  dress,  as 
"  His  get-up  was  excellent,"  meaning  his 
style  of  dress  exactly  suited  the  part  he 
professed  to  enact. 

Get  up  {To). 

To  rise  from  one's  bed. 

To  learn,  as  "I  must  get  up  mv 
Euclid." 

To  organise  and  arrange,  as  ' '  We 
will  get  up  a  bazaar." 

Gethsemane.  The  Ore// is  ii/ae/ihifa, 
supposed  in  legendary  story  to  be  spotted 
by  the  blood  of  Christ. 

Gew'gaw  (,</  hard).     A  showy  trifle. 

(Saxon,  ^t'-^(//,  a  trifle;  Fvench,jo!ijon, 
a  toy.) 


Ghebers 


514 


Giants 


fibebers  or  Gue'bres.  The  original 
natives  of  Iran  (Persia),  who  adliered  to 
tlie  religion  of  Zoroaster,  and  (after  the 
conquest  of  their  country  by  the  Ai-abs) 
became  waifs  and  outlaws.  The  term  is 
now  applied  tofire-worshippersgenerally. 
Hanway  says  that  the  ancient  Cihebers 
wore  a  cushee  or  belt,  which  tliey  never 
laid  aside. 

Ghibelline  {g  hard),  or  rather  Waib- 
lingen.  The  war-cry  of  Conrad's  fol- 
lowers in  the  battle  of  Weinsberg  (11 40) . 
Conrad,  Duke  of  Suabia,  was  opposed 
to  Henry  the  Lion,  Duke  of  Saxony, 
whose  slogan  was  Guelph  or  Welfe,  his 
family  name. 

Ghost.  To  gh-c  up  the  ghost.  To 
die.  The  idea  is  that  life  is  independent 
of  the  body,  and  is  due  to  the  habitation 
of  tlie  ghost  or  spirit  in  the  material 
body.  At  death  the  ghost  or  sjjirit 
leaves  tliis  tabernacle  of  clay,  and  eitlier 
returns  to  God  or  abides  in  the  region  of 
spirits  till  the  general  resurrection. 
Thus  in  Ecc.  xii.  7  it  is  said,  "  Then 
shall  the  dust  return  to  the  earth  as  it 
was :  and  the  spirit  shall  return  unto 
God  who  gave  it." 

"  Man  dietli.and  wastetli  away  :  ye.a,man  Kivctb 
up  the  fe'liust,  ami  wljere  is  lie  ?"— Job  xiv.  in. 

T/ie  gliost  of  a  chance.  The  least  like- 
lihood. "  He  has  not  the  ghost  of  a 
chance  of  being  elected,"  not  tlie  shadow 
of  a  probability. 

Ghoul.    {See  Faiey.") 

Giaffir  {Dj/if-Jir).  Dacha  of  Aby'dos, 
and  father  of  Zule'ika.  He  tells  her  he 
intends  to  marry  her  to  Kara  Osmau 
Ogloo,  governor  of  Magne'sia  ;  but  Zu- 
leLka  has  betrothed  herself  to  her  cousin 
Selim.  The  lovers  flee,  Giaftir  shoots 
SeUm,  Zuleika  dies  of  grief,  and  the 
pacha  lives  on,  a  heart-broken  old  man, 
ever  calling  to  the  winds,  ' '  Where  is 
ray  daughter  ?  "  and  echo  answers, 
"Where?"    {Byron:  Bride  of  Abydos.) 

Giall.  The  infernal  river  of  Scandi- 
navian mythology. 

Giallar  Bridge.  Tlie  bridge  of 
death,  over  whicli  all  must  pass  to  get  to 
Helheim.     {Sca)iduHtrian  mytholmjy.') 

Giallar  Horn  {Thi).  Hoimdall's 
horn,  wliich  went  out  into  all  worlds 
whenever  he  chose  to  blow  it.  {Scandi- 
navian mythology.) 

Gian  ben  Gian  {g  soft).  King  of 
the  G  inns  or  Genii,  and  founder  of  the 
Pyramids.  He  was  overthrown  by  Aza'- 
zil  or  Lucifer.     [Arab  superstitions.) 


Giant  of  Literature  {The).  Dr. 
Samuel  Johnson  (1709  -  1 783) .  Also 
called  "  tlie  great  moralist." 

Giants  {y  soft). 

(1)  (Jf  Greek  iiiythotogy,  sons  of  Tar'- 
taros  and  Ge.  "VVheu  they  attempted  to 
storm  heaven,  they  were  hurled  to  earth 
by  the  aid  of  Hercules,  and  buried  under 
Mount  Etna. 

(2)  Of  Scandinavian  niytholngy,  were 
evil  genii,  dwelling  in  Jotiinheim  {giant- 
land),  who  had  the  power  of  reducing  or 
extending  their  stature  at  will. 

(3)  Of  nursery  mytholoyy,  are  canni- 
bals of  vast  stature  and  immense  mus- 
cular power,  but  as  stupid  as  they  are 
violent  and  treacherous.  The  best 
known  are  Blunderborc  ((?.('.),  Cormo- 
ran'  [q.v.),  Galliantus  ('y.c),  Gombo 
{i[.v.),  Megadore  and  Bcllygan. 

(1)  In  the  romance  of  Ciargan'tita  and 
TantayrHcl' ,  by  Eabelais,  giants  mean 
princes. 

(o)  Giants  of  Mythology. 

Ac'AMAS.    Olio  <if  t lie  C'ydoiis.    (Greek fiihle.) 

Adama.s'tor  (ij.r.). 

,Ei;,i/os,  till'  liiinarcd-bandcd.  One  of  tlie  Tilaiis. 
(aiech/nhlc.) 

Af.'RHis,  (»ne  (if  llip  Titans.  He  was  killed  by 
[]n-  I'ainr.    (Oreek fable.) 

Ai.cvoNK.rs  [Al'-.H-o-UKce],  of  Ai.'nox.  Jnpitcr 
sent  Hen-uir-^  against  biiii  fur  si ea bus  some  of 
tbo  Sun's  oxen,  lint  HcrciilG*  i-oiild  not  do 
an\  tbinc,  for  iiiinicdialcly  I  lie  L-iaiit  touebed 
tbe  earth  be  rcrpi\ed  liesb  stri'iiKtb.  (.See 
hiloic,  ANT.Kos.)  At  len^'tb  Pallas  carried 
liiiii  licyiinil  tlie  moon.  His  seven  daugbtcrs 
were  iiietamoriiliosed  into  halcyons.  QAvgnn- 
(inlic  Exjieditinii,  i.  6.) 

Ai.'oKEiAii'.  Tbe  giant  Ori'on  is  so  called  by  tbe 
Aral  is. 

Ai.ii'AN'KAUoy  or  At.iniAii'xoN  (q.v.). 

Ar.o'Kos.  Son  of  I'oseiibm  Caii'i.  e.  Kacb  of  bis 
two  sons  xvas  -j.:  enbils  iiiL.'li.    (dntl:  fdhi,:) 

Aji'kiiant.  a  cruel  ^iant  shun  by  (Juyof  War- 
Avick.    (.rcini:  Jlciigiies.) 

Axoofi.AFFRK  Iq.v.).    (See  below,  21  feet.) 

Ant.k'os  (q.r. ;  see  above,  Alcvoseus).  (.See 
III  bin;  105  feet.) 

AnfiKs(2syl.).  One  of  tbe  Cyclojis.  (arcci;  fiiblc.) 

As'CAPART  (q.V.). 

ATLAS  (q.V.). 

BALAS  (q.V.). 

I5et.i,e  (1  syl.)  (q.V.). 

Belt.e'iius  (q.V.). 

Bluxderhork  (.3  syl.)  (q.v.). 

Briar'eos  or  Bri'areus  (3  syl.)  (q.v.). 

BROIJDISCtSAG  (q.v.). 

Brontes  (2  syl.)  (q.v.). 

BURI.OXD  (q.v.). 

Ca'cos  or  t'Acus  (q.v.). 

Caliu'okaxt  (q.v.). 

CAu'ActM.iAii'in).    Tbe  giant  tbat  Don  Qnixote 

intended  sbonld  kiieelat  tbefeet  of  Diileia'ea. 

(Cerraiite^  :  Don  Qiii.mtc.) 
Carus.    In  tlie  .fcven  (7i(Oh;i/i»is. 
t'liAi. BROTH.     Tbe  stem  of   all  tbe  giant  race. 

(Hiibclais :  riititiiijrnel). 
Ohrtstoph'erus.    (!iee  Christopher,  St.) 
CIA'T'IOS  (q.v.). 
CCEOS.    Son  of  Heaven  and  Eartb.     He  married 

I'birhe,  and  was  tlie  father  of  Laloiia.  (Greelc 

fable.) 
("OLRRAKn.    (See  Colbeoxue.) 

t'ORI'-LAM'UO  (q.v.). 
CORMORAS  (q.v.) 

C'ORMOR.\>"T.  A  giant  disconillted  by  Sir  Brian. 
(Siieiiser:  Faerie  Qtceene,  \i.  4.) 


Giants 


5l£ 


Giants 


COTT.VS  (q.V."). 

Vouhiy  (tf.r.). 

Cyclops  (7Vi(?)  (q.v.). 

Despair  (q.v.). 

DOSDASCH  (.g.v.). 

ESCKL'ADOS  Cq.V.). 

EPHlAliTES  (4  syl.)  Cq.V.'). 

Erix  (<?.«.). 

Eu'RYTOS.  One  of  the  giants  lliat  mado  war  wiHi 
tlie  gods.  Bacclms  killed  liini  with  liis  tli.vr- 
sus.    (Greek  fable.) 

Febbeghs,  slaiu  by  Orgando,  was  'J8  feet  in 
height. 

Feb'bacute  (3  syl.)  (g.i). 

Fer'raous  (q.v.). 

Kierauras  lFe-a-ra-brali'\  (q-v.). 

Fiox  (q.i:). 

FIOR'GUVX,  the  father  of  Frigga  (.Scamlinaviati 
mythology). 

Fracas.sus  (q.r.). 

Gai.'ba'ra.  Father  of  Goliah  of  Seoondillo 
(3  syl.),  and  inventor  of  thi;  custom  nf  drink- 
ing healths.  (.Viicluit:  CEavres  dc  lliiln'lals. 
1711.) 

Gai.apas.  The  giant  slain  by  King  Arthur.  (,Sir 
T.  Malori/ :  lliatovu  of  I'riiicc  Arthur.) 

RALl.lOANTi-s  (i/.r.^. 

(iAUAIIAN'n    \  (7  i\). 
GAIIOANITA   I'/.r.  1. 

(JAIIIAN.     In  tlio  .Seven  Cliampions. 

(iKMMACOO  iq.V.). 

GmtvoN'Ko  (q.v.). 

(iiitAi.iiA  ((/.;'.). 

(ioiiMF.it  oi.r.1. 

GoE.Mo  1'  nr  (jdi.nrAdoT  (■(/.('.). 

Go(i'.\[amm;.     Kill,'  ,,f  the  giant  race  of  Alliion  ; 

slam  l.,\  I'iiii'iirus. 
GR.\xiiousiEu.   The  giant  king  of  I'tniiii,  f.ither 

of  Gargantua.    (.llcibclais :  Ganjantiu,) 
Grastorto  (q.v.). 
Gam  (q.v.). 
Gru.muo  (q.v.). 
Guv  OP  WARWirK  (q.v.). 
Gyces  (2  syl.).    One  of  the  Titans.    Ho  had  fifty 

heads  and  a  hundred  hands.    (Greelc  fable.) 
IlAP'MOULHE  (2  syl.)  (q.v.). 
HiPPor.'YTos.    One  of  the  giants  who  made  war 

with  the  gods.     He  was  killed  by  Hermes. 

(Greek/able.) 
^IRASVEI.G  (q.v.). 
HRIJITnURS.VR  (q.v.). 
HURTAt.l  (q.v.). 
INDRACIT'TII.VS  (q.v.). 
iRUS  (q.v.). 
JOTUN.    The  giant  of  Jiitunhcim  or  (iiaiil-land. 

(Scandinavian  imjthulo:/!/. ) 
JUT.IASCE.    A  giant  of  Arthurian  romance. 
JUSXER  (q.v.). 

KlFRi.    The  giant  of  atheism  and  infidelity. 
KOTTOS.    One  of  the  Titans.    lie  had  a  luuulred 

hands.    (.S'cc  BiiiAitKos.)    (Greek  fitUlr.) 
MAT,A>fnitU'N()  (q.v.). 
MAROUTTR  (q.v.). 
.Mai-oys  (./.(■,) 
JiAia.  (q.v.). 
JloXT-U(li;XOX  (q.v.). 

Mo[u;ante  C.i  syl.)  (q.i:). 

MufilLt.o.    A  giant  famous  for  his  niacc  with  six 

balls. 
Off'erus  (q.v.), 
OdIAS  (q.v.). 
Orooglio  (q.i:). 

.Ori'ox  (q.v.).    {Sec  hcloiv,  ffih  feet.) 
Otos  (q.v.). 
Pallas  (q.v.). 
Paxtag'ruel  (q.v.. 
Fhldox.    In  the  Seven  Champions. 
Polybo'tes  (4  syl.)  (q.v.). 

POL'YPHF.'JIUS  or  POLYPIIE.ME  (3  Syl.)  (q.V.). 

PoRPHYR'ros  (q.v.). 

Pyrac'mox.    One  of  the  Cyclops.    (Greek  fahlc.) 

Raphsarus.    In  the  Seven  Champions. 

RiTHO  (q.v.). 

RiTHO.  The  giant  who  commanded  King  Arthur 
to  send  hira  his  beard  to  comi'lete  tlie  lining 
of  a  robe.    In  the  Arthurian  romance. 

Skrymir.    (See  Draught  op  Thor,  p.  3t<(i.) 

Slay'-oood  (q.v.). 

Stbr'opes  (3  syl.).  One  of  the  Cyclops.  (Greek 
fable.) 

Tabtaeo.    The  Cyclops  of  Basque  mythology. 


TEUTOBOcn'us  (King).    (See  beloiv,  3D  feet.) 
Thaox.    One  of  the  giants  who  made  war  with 

the  gods.    He  was  killed  by  the  Parcaj.  (Greek 

fable.) 
Titaxs  (Tlie)  (q.v.). 
TiT'Yos  (q.v.). 

TllKYP.AGLE  (</.?'.). 

Typhceus  (q.v.). 
Typuox  (q.v.). 
WlDP.XOSTRLLS  (q.V.). 

YoiiAK.  The  giant  guardian  of  the  caves  of 
Babylon.    (Souihey  :  Thalaba,  book  y.) 

Of  these  giants  the  following  are  note- 
worthy : 

ID  feet  in  height :  A  skeleton  discovered  at  Lu- 
cerne in  157".  Dr.  Plater  is  our  authority  for 
this  measurement. 

21  feet  in  height :  AngoulafCre  of  the  Broken 
Teeth,  was  12  cubits  iu  height.  (A  cubit  was 
•Jl  inches.) 

30  feet  in  lieis-'ht ;  Teutobochns,  wliose  remains 
were  ilisniviTcil  near  ilie  Hbimein  ir,i:!.  Thev 
occupir.l  a  I, mil,  :;ii  frri  biug.  The  lioues  of 
aniillic'V  '_'i-::iiiMr  skflrldM  Were  exposcnl  liy 
the  aclinii  ..1  ilir  KIh.mc  in  M."ii;.  It  tlds  wash, 
human  skrlri..ii,  i  li.-  liright  of  the  living  man 
must  liav,'  lii-i'ii  :;ii  fn-i. 

SOJ  feet  ill  lii-ii-'lii  :  (iriuiL,  according  to  Pliny,  was 
46  cul)ils  in  height. 

in,-)  feet  iu  height :  Anta^os  is  said  by  riufarch  to 
have  been  tiO  cubits  in  height.  He  further- 
more adds  that  the  grave  of  the  giant  was 
opened  l,y  Scvlmnios. 

300  feet  in  lici'-'hi  :  The  "monster  Polypheme." 
It  is  said  that  his  skeleton  was  discovered  at 
Trapa'ni,  in  Sicily,  in  the  fourteenth  century. 
It  this  skeleton  was  that  of  a  man,  he  must 
have  been  3ti0  feet  in  height. 

(6)  Giants  of  Real  Life. 

AX.\K  (of  Bible  history),  father  of  theAnakim. 
The  Hebrew  spies  said  they  were  mere  grass- 
hoppers in  einnparison  with  these  giants 
(.loshua  XV.  14  ;  Judges  i.  •Jo ;  and  Numbers 
xiii.  33.) 

AXAK.    (.SVe  Brice.) 

AXDBOXi'eiis  II.  was  10  feel  in  height.  He  was 
grandson  of  Alexius  I'lHiiiieuus.  Nicetas 
asserts  that  he  had  seen  him. 

Bamfouo  (Edward)  was  7  feet  4  inches.  He  died 
in  17GS,  and  was  buried  iu  St.  Dunstan's 
churchyard. 

BATES  (Captai)i)  was  7  feet  IU  inches.  He  was  a 
native  of  Kentucky,  and  was  exhibited  in 
London  in  1.h71.  His  wife  (Anna  Swann)  was 
the  same  height. 

Blacker  (Henry)  was  7  feet  4  inches,  and  most 
symmetrical.  He  was  born  at  Cuekfield,  in 
Sussex,  iu  1724,  and  was  called  "The  British 
Giant." 

Bit  AOLEY  (^yiltiam)  was  7  feet  n  inches  iu  lieiu'ht. 
He  was  horn  in  I7s7,  and  died  Is-jii.  His  lurlh 
is  duly  registered  iu  ihe  i,ai-isli  <-liurcli  of 
Market  Weightim,  in  Vorkshire,  and  his  right 
hand  is  preserved  in  the  mnseuui  of  the 
College  of  Surgeons. 

Brice  ( M.  J.)  exhibited  under  the  name  of  Anak, 
was  7  feet  ,s  inches  in  height  at  the  age  of  20. 
He  was  born  in  1S40  at  l!aiiioiicliami>,  in  the 
Vosges,  and  visited  Eni-'laiid  lsii2-.">.  His  arms 
had  a  stretch  uf  ii.'i.J  inches,  and  wire  there- 
fcn-e  SI  incites  too  loni;  for  syinuieiry. 

Brusted  (Vun)  was  s  feet  in  height.  This  Nor- 
way giant  was  exhiiiitcd  iu  Lcndon  in  Issii. 

Busby' (Jo/ill)  was  7  feet  !i  iiirhrs  in  lii'it,-lit,  and 
his  brother  was  about  the  same.  They  were 
natives  of  Dartield,  in  Yorkshire. 

CiiAXG,  the  Chinese  i,-iant.  w'as  8  feet  2  inches  in 
heicrht.  The  entire  name  of  this  Chinese  giant 
was  Chang-Woii-Goo.  He  was  exhibited  in 
Loudon  in  l.S65-18fii),  and  again  iu  18S0.  He  was 
a  native  of  Fychon. 

CiiARLEMAGXE  was  nearly  8  feet  in  height,  and 
was  so  strong  he  could  siiueeze  togeth,.n'  three 
horseshoes  with  bis  hands. 

Cotter  (Pdiru-A)  was  s  feet  7.J  inches  in  height. 
This  Irish  giant  died  at  Clifton,  Bristol,  in 
1803.  A  cast  of  his  hand  is  preserved  ia  the 
museum  of  the  College  of  Surgeons. 


G-iants 


518 


Giant's  Leap 


DAyiBL,  tlie  rorter  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  was  a 

man  of  gigantic  stature. 
ELKA'ZEii  was  7  ruliits  (nearly  14  feet).    Vitellins 

sent  tbis  i,'iant  to  Rome  ;  and  be  is  nientioneil 

tiy  Josepbus.    N.B.— Tbe  boigbt  of  Goliath  was 

ti  culjits  and  a  span. 
Nothing  can  be  a  greater  proof  that  the  cubit 
was  not  il  inches,  for  no  recorded  height  of  any 
giant  known  has  reached  ]o  feet.  The  nearest 
approach  to  it  was  (4aliara.  tlie  Ava)a:iii  giiuit 
(9  feet '.» inches)  nientioneil  hy  Pliny,  and  .Midille- 
tou  of  Lancashire  (y  feet  :i  inches)  nieniioneil  liy 
Dr.  Plott.  Prolialily  a  ciitiil  was  al.oiit  is  in, -lies. 
Eleizerue  (Joacliiiii^.    AV.-is  7  feet  10  inclios  in 

height.    He  was  a  Spani.ard,  and  e.xbihited  in 

tbe  Oosmorama.Kegeui  Sire  't,  Loudon. 
EvAXs  (ir/»(((«i)  was  .M  feri  at  death.    He  was  a 

porti'r  of  t'barles  1.,  .-ind  died  in  1G.T2. 
FiiAXK  («/;/).    Was  7  feet  .M  inches  in  height.    He 

was  an   Irislinian   whose  name  was    Francis 

Sberid;in,aiid(lir.l  in  ls7o. 
Fkexz  <_Liiais)  was  7  tV''i  1  inches  in  height.    He 

was  called  "  the  Freiicb  giant." 
FuxxuM  (court  giant  of  Eugene  II.)  was  11  feet 

C  inches. 
Gabab.v,  tbe  Arabian  giant,  was  9  feet  !)  inches. 

This  Arabian  giant  fs  mentioned  liy  Pliny,  who 

says  he  was  the  tallest  man  seen  in  the  days  of 

Claudius. 
GiLLY  was  H  feet.     This  Swedish  giant  was  ex- 
hibited iu  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth 

century. 
GoLi'ATH   was   6   cubits    and  a   span    (II   feet 

w  inches,  if  the  cubit  =  21  inches,  and  the 

span  -  ;i  inches). 
,SVc  iKJie  to  tlie  giant  Ei.eazeu.    If  llie  cubit 
was  I.s  inches,  then  (ioliatb  was  the  same  height 
as  the  Arabian  giant  Gabara. 
GoBDOX  (,AUce)  was  7  feet  in  height.    She  was  a 

native  of  Essex,  and  died  in  1737,  at  the  age 

of  19. 

HaIiE  Uiohot)  was  7  fe^'t  r,  inches  in  height.  He 
was  lioi'ii  at  Soniertdn,  in  Norfolk,  and  was 
called"  the  Ndvf.dk  giant  "  (Isi'ii-isil-). 

Har'ouada  (//inu/r/)  was  nearly  is  feet  in  height 
("5  ells  of  Norway  '),  and  was  called  "tbe 
Norway  giant."  Siiorro  Sturleson  says  he  was 
"about  8  feet  in  height." 

Holmes  iUcnjamin)  was  7  feet  6  inches  in  height. 
He  was  a  Nori  bumlierland  man,  and  was  made 
sword-lii'arer  of  the  Corporation  of  Worces- 
ter.   He  liicdin  ls'.i2. 

JOTix  FiiKiiKunK,  Diikeof  Brunswick, was  8  feet 
I'l  inches  iu  beiu'br. 

KiXToi.oiiif.s  iiv.K  was  1.1  feet  0  inches  in 
height  (!),  5  fen  thriuigh  the  chest  to  tbe 
spine  (:),  and  hi  feet  across  tbe  shoulders  (0. 
This,  of  course,  is  qtiite  incredible. 

La  Pierre  was  7  feet  l  inch  in  height.  He  was 
born  at  Stratganl,  in  Denmark. 

Louis  was  7  feet  1  inrhr<  ni  lieiglit.  Called  "the 
French  giant,  '  His  l.li  haml  is  preserved  in 
the  musi'Uiii  of  llie  CoHc^-c  of  Surgeons. 

LoiisilKix  was  «  feet  .i  inches  in  bei  rht.  This 
Hussian  giant  was  drum-major  of  tbe  Im- 
peiial  (iuards. 

JUlioXAi.i)  (J(iriics')  was  7  feet  C  inches  in  heiglit. 
He  was  born  iu  Cork,  Ireland,  and  died  iu 
17tiO. 

McDonald  (fiamiien  was  6  feet  10  inches  in 
height.  Tbis  Scotchman  was  usuallv  called 
"Big  Sam."  He  was  tbe  Prince  of  Wales's 
footman,  and  dieil  in  bsoi'. 

Marratii  (Ccnii'liiis)  was  7  feet  in  inches  in 
heiglit  at  the  age  of  Hi.  He  was  an  orphan 
reared  by  Bishop  Berkeley,  and  died  at  the  age 
of  twenty  (1740—170(1). 

MAXiMi'xus.was  s  feet  6  inches  in  height.  The 
Koniaii  emperor,  fr.iiii  I'.Ti  to  i:w. 

Mellox  (Kilminnl)  was  7  feet  tj  inches  in  heieht 
at  tlie  age  of  nineteen.  He  was  born  at  Port 
Leicester,  in  Ireland  (1740-1760). 

MlDDLETOX  (Jo7m)  was  9  feet  3  inches  in  height. 
"His  hand  was  17  inches  long  and  8J  broad." 
He  was  born  at  Hale,  Lancashire,  in  the  reign 
of  .lames  I.  (,sVc  »fimr,  Gauara.)  {Dr.  Plott: 
Noturtil  Histiini  of  Stiiihirtlsliirc,  p.  29.-i.) 

Miller  (Mdj-imiiniii  Cliristnpiirr)  was  n  feet  in 
heiglit.  His  liaiiil  measiiied  12  inches,  and  his 
forefinger  was  9  inclies  long.  This  Saxon  giant 
died  ia  London  at  the  age  of  sixty  (1074-1734). 


MfRPnY  was  8  feet  lO  inches  in  height.  This 
Irish  giant  was  contemiiorarv  with  (J'Brien 
(,«,r  bcliiir).  and  died  at  Mars -iiles. 

O'BiiiKXj  or  ritARi.Ks  HvitxK,  was  ,s  feet  4  inches 
ill  lieii.-lit,  Tbe  skelel<iM  of  this  Irish  giant  is 
l.reserveil  in  the  College  of  Surureolis.  He 
(lied  in  Cockspiir  Sireet,  I,ondon,  and  was 
coiiteiiiporary  with  .Miiriiliy  (I7(;i-17.h3). 

O'Brikx  (/'ii/)vc/,)  wasMf<'et  7  iiielics  in  height. 
He  died  AULTiist  3,  l,so4,  a.-ed  lliiri  \ -nine, 

(Id,  Km,!.'  of  liaslian.  Accordim,'  to  Iradilion,  he 
lived  :!,(;o(i  years,  and  walked  beside  llie  Ark 
diiriir.'  tlie  Klood.  due  of  bis  bones  formed  a 
brid'-'e  over  a  i  n  ei-.  His  bed  (Deuteronomy 
iii.  II I  w.-is  :)  enliiis  liy  4  cubits. 
If  the  (111. 11    was  really  21  inches,  this  would 

make  the  bed  1,-4  feet  by  loi.    The  great  bed  of 

Ware,  Herts,  is  12  feet  Ijy  12.   (,SVc  obvir,  E i.kazaii 

—note,) 

OsKX  (.JTeinriclO  was  7  feet  fi  inches  in  height  at 
tbe  age  of  27.  and  weighed  aliove  :i7  sKine.  He 
was  born  in  Norway,    (.^cc  itlmir.  IIaudraoa.) 

PuUfs  was  ■',".  cubits  111  height  "  (7  feet  0  inches). 
He  was  an  Indian  king  who  fought  against 
Alexander  the  Great  near  the  river  Hydas]  es. 
((Jiiintiis  Curtius:  Ue  rebua  gcstis  Alejcimdii 
Miunii.) 
Wliaiever  tbe  .Tewisli  cubit  was,  the  Roman 

fubil  was  not  more  llian  18  Inches. 

RiKcFtAitr  (./.  U.)  was  s  feet  4  inches  In  height. 
He  was  a  native  of  Friedl.erg.  and  both  his 
fallier  and  iiioiher  were  of  yigaiitic  stature. 

Sai.mk.ucix  (Muiliit)  was  7  I'eel  4  inches  in  height. 
He  was  enlled  "The  .Me.\iean  Glanl." 

Sam  ( /.■(<;).    (Nee  Mac  DoXAi.b.) 

SlIlCKlllA  N.      {S,,nlu>i;,    KRAXK.) 

SuANN   (..\iiii,'  Ihiinii)  was  7  feet  llj  inches  in 

heii-'lii.    Sllew.■l^a  native  of  Nova  Scotia. 
Tdi.i.KK  t.fdiiiis)  WHS  s  feet  at  the  age  of  24.    He 
died  111  February,  l.sp,p. 

.loseplins  speaks  ot  a  Jew  In  f(;et  2  inches. 

Beeaiiiis  asserts  that  he  had  seen  a  man  nearly 
111  feel  higb.aiiil  a  woman  liilly  10  feet. 

(Jasper  liaubiu  spenksof  a  Swiss  8  feet  in  height. 

Del  Itio  lelis  us  be  liiinsidf  saw  a  Pledmonteso 
in  1.".72  more  than  n  fc-c-i  in  height. 

C.  F.  S.  Warren,  .M..\.  (In  Notes  cnitl  Queries, 
Au.irust  14tli,  l,s7."il,  tells  us  that  his  father  knew  a 
lady  9  feet  in  height,  and  adds  "  her  head  touched 
the' ceiling  of  a  good-sized  room." 

Vaiiderbrook  says  he  saw  at  Congo  a  black  man 
9  feel  high. 

Ill  llic>  museum  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  is  a 
human  skeleton  s  feet  0  Inches  In  height. 

Tiiomas  Hall,  of  Willingham,  was3feet  9iuches 
at  tlieai.'e  of  3. 

A  Lriaiit  was  exhibitedat  Rouen  in  Iheearly  part 
of  the  eiLThteeuth  century  17  feet  lo  Inches  (!)  ia 
heiu'bt. 

Goiapus,  the  surgeon,  tells  ns  of  a  Swedish 
gianless,  who,  at  the  age  of  9,  was  over  lo  feet  In 
height. 

Turner,  the  naturalist,  tells  us  he  saw  in  Brazil 
a  u'iant  12  feet  in  lieiglu. 

M.  Thevet  published,  in  1.57.5,  an  account  of  a 
South  .\uierlcan  giant,  the  skeleton  of  which  he 
measured.    It  was  11  feet  5  incht^s. 

Giant's    Causeway,  in  Iielaud.    A 

basaltic  mole,  .said  to  be  the  commence- 
ment of  a  road  to  lie  constructed  by  the 
giants  across  the  channel,  reaching  from 
Ireland  to  Scotland. 

Giants'  Dance  (T/ii).  Stonehenge, 
which  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  says  was 
removed  from  Killaraus,  a  mountain  in 
Ireland,  by  the  magical  skill  of  Merlin. 

"If  von  [Aurelius]  are  desirous  to  Imnour  the 
hurvlug-Place  of  these  men  [who  routed  llengist] 
wltii  an  everlasting  iiioiiuineiit,  sc^iul  for  the 
Giants'  Dance,  wbicli  is  iu  Killaraus,  a  iiiountain 
In  Ireland."— fif'#iTi/  of  Monmouth  :  British  llis- 
torii,  book  viii,  chap,"lO. 

Giant's  Leap  {The).  Lam-Goemagog. 
The  legend  is  that  Corineus  (3  syl.),  in 


Giants'  War 


517 


Gift-horse 


his  encouuter  with  Goemagog,  or  Gog- 
magog,  sluug  him  ou  his  shoulders,  car- 
ried him  to  the  top  of  a  neighbouring 
cliff,  and  heaved  him  into  the  sea.  Ever 
since  then  the  cHff  has  been  called  Lam- 
Goemagog.  {'Thomas  Borcniait :  Gitjan- 
tick  Historij ;  1741.) 

Giants'  War  with  Jove  {The). 
The  War  of  the  Giants  and  the  War  of 
the  Titans  should  be  kept  distinct.  The 
latter  was  after  Jove  or  Zeus  was  god 
of  heaven  and  earth,  the  former  was 
before  that  time.  Kronos,  a  Titan,  had 
been  exalted  by  his  brothers  to  the  su- 
premac3%  but  Zeus  made  war  ou  Kronos 
with  the  view  of  dethroning  him.  After 
ten  years'  contest  he  .succeeded,  and 
hurled  the  Titans  into  hell.  The  other 
war  was  a  revolt  by  the  giants  against 
Zeus,  which  was  readily  put  down  by 
the  heljj  of  the  other  gods  and  the  aid 
of  Hercules. 

Giaour  {joic'-cr).  An  unbeliever,  one 
who  disbelieves  the  Mahometan  faith. 
A  corruption  of  the  Arabic  Kiafir.  It 
has  now  become  so  common  that  it 
scarcely  implies  insult,  but  has  about 
the  force  of  the  word  ''  Gentile,"  mean- 
ing "  not  a  Jew."  Byron  has  a  poetical 
tale  so  called,  but  he  has  not  given  the 
giaour  a  name. 

"Tlio  cit.v  won  for  Allali  from  tlic  Giiinur, 
Tbo    Cii.uiur    fioni   Otbuians   race  afjaiu  may 
Wiest."' 
htjrun  :  ChiliJe  Uarukl,  fauto  ii.  stanza  77. 

Gib  (^  soft).  TIte  cut  of  ]iis gib.  {See 
Jib.) 

To  hang  cne^s  gib.  To  be  angry,  to 
■  pout.  The  lower  Hp  of  a  horse  is  called 
its  gib,  and  so  is  the  beak  of  a  male 
salmon. 

Gib  Cat.  A  tom-cat.  The  male 
cat  used  to  be  called  Gilbert.  Narcs 
says  that  Tibert  or  T3-balt  is  the  French 
form  of  Gilbert,  and  hence  Chaucer  in 
his  Itonnniec  of  the  Hose,  renders  "  Thi- 
bert  le  Cas"  by  "  Gibbe,  our  Cat"  (v. 
6204).  Generally  used  for  a  castrated 
cat.     {See  Tybalt.) 

."I  am  as  melanclinly  as  a  pili  cat  cir  a  lugged 
bear."— .S/crAtspedie:  1  Henry  IV.,  i.  L'. 

Gib'berish  {g  hard).  Geber,  the 
Arabian,  was  by  far  the  greatest  alche- 
mist of  the  eleventh  century,  and  wrote 
several  treatises  on  "  the  art  of  making 
gold  "  in  the  usual  mystical  jargon,  be- 
cause the  ecclesiastics  would  have  put  to 
death  any  one  who  had  openly  written 
ou  the  subject.  Friar  Bacon,  in  1282, 
fiU'oislies  a  specimen  of  this  gibberish. 


He  is  giving  the  prescription  for  making 
gunijowder,  and  says — 

"  Sed  tamen  salis-peti» 

LURU  MONK  CAP  L'EBB 

Et  suli)huris." 

The  second  line  is  merely  an  anagram  of 
t'arbcnum  piilrerc  (pulverised  charcoal). 
V   "  Gibberish,"  compare  jV(i/>(r,  and 
gabble. 

Gibbet  {g  soft).  A  foot-pad,  who 
"piqued  himself  on  being  the  best-be- 
havtd  man  ou  the  road."  {George  I'ar- 
c^ahar :  lieanx'  Stratagem.)' 

To  gibbet  tlic  bread  (Lincolnshire). 
When  bread  turns  out  ropy  and  is  sup- 
posed to  be  bewitched,  the  good  dame 
runs  a  slick  through  it  and  hangs  it  in 
the  cupboard.  It  is  gibbeted  tn  terrorem 
to  other  batches. 

Gib'elins  or  GliiVeUines  {g  hard). 
{See  GuELPHS.) 

Gib'ecnite  (4  syl.,  g  hard) .  A  slave's 
slave,  a  workman's  labourer,  a  farmer's 
imderstrapper,  or  Jack-of -all- work. 
The  Gibeouites  were  made  "hewers  of 
wood  and  drawers  of  water"  to  the 
Israelites.     (Josh.  ix.  27.) 

"  And  Giles  must  trudge,  whcievcr  gives  com- 
iiiand, 
A  Gilieuulte,  tbat  serves  tlieui  all  by  turn." 

BuMimfieJd :  Fidiiiei's  Buy. 

Giblets  {The  I)ukc  of).  A  very  fat 
man.  In  Yorkshire  a  fat  man  is  still 
nicknamed  "  giblets." 

Gibraltar  {g  soft).  A  contraction  of 
Gibel  at  I'ari  (Gib'  al  Tar),  "mountain 
of  Tari."  This  Tari  ben  Zeyad  was  an 
Arabian  general  who,  under  the  orders 
of  Mousa,  landed  at  Calpe  in  710,  and 
utterly  defeated  Roderick,  the  Gothic 
King  of  Spain.  Cape  Tari'fa  is  named 
from  the  same  general. 

Gibraltar  of  Greeec.  A  precipitous 
rock  700  feet  above  the  sea,  in  Nauplia 
(Greece). 

Gibraltar  of  the  Neiv  TTorlil.  Cape 
Diamond,  iu  the  province  of  Quebec. 

Gif  Gaff.  Give  and  take  ;  good  tuni 
for  good  turn. 

"  I  bave  pledged  my  word  for  your  safety,  and 
you  must  give  me  yours  to  he  private  iu  tbe 
matter— gift  gaff,  you  know."- Sir  W.lscott:  Red- 
yainitlct,  cbap.  .\ii. 

Gift-horse.  BoiH  look  a  gift-horse  in 
the  mouth.  When  a  present  is  made,  do 
not  inquire  too  minutely  into  its  in- 
trinsic value. 

Latin:  "Noli  equi  denies  inspicere 
donati."  "  Si  quis  det  mannos  ne 
quaere  iu  dentibus  aunos"  (Monkttih). 

Italian  :  "  A  cavallao  daio  uon  guar- 
dar  in  bocca." 


Gig 


)18 


Giles  Overreach. 


French  :  "A  cheval  domie  il  ne  faut 
pas  regarder  aux  dents." 

SpfDiiKh  ;  "  A  cavall  da  to  no  le  mirem 
el  dieiite." 

Gig  {g  hard).  A  \vhi2)piiig  to2>,  made 
like  a  V. 

"Thou  (lisinitest  like  an  infant,  (in,  wliiji  tliy 
t-'i,i-'."— ,v;/((/if,<;<(((Ci' ;  Lovc'a  Lidivur'a  Lo^t,  v.  1. 

Gig-lamps.  Spectacles.  Gig-lamps 
arc  the  "spectacles"  of  a  gig.  (AVt- 
Veedant  Geeen.) 

Gig  -  manity.  Eespectability.  A 
word  invented  by  Carlyle.  A  witness 
in  the  trial  of  John  Thurtell  said,  "I 
always  thought  him  [Thurtell]  a  re- 
spectable man."  And  being  asked  by 
the  judge  what  he  meant,  reijlied,  "He 
[ThmtellJ  kept  a  gig." 

"  A  iirincess  of  Ibc  hUiod,  yet  whose  father  hail 
sold  his  inexpi-essililes  .  .  .  in  a  word,  (ji.u'Uianiiy 
(l\sgiggC(i."  —  Cur!!ile:  Tlic  Uiumoiul  J\'eckluce, 
cbaii.  V. 

Giggle  (ff  hard).  Hare  ^on  found  a 
(jl'jylvii  neat  I  A  question  asked  in 
isorfolk  when  anyone  laughs  immoder- 
ately and  senseles.sly.  The  meaning  is, 
"Have  you  found  a  nest  of  romping 
girls  that  you  laugh  so  r  "  Oii/kt  is  still 
in  common  use  in  the  West  of  England 
for  a  giddy,  romping,  Tom-boy  girl,  and 
in  Salop  a  flighty  person  is  called  a 
"giggle."     (.^'ce  Gape's-nest.) 

Gil  Bias  (r/  soft).  The  hero  of  Le 
Sage's  novel  of  the  same  name.  Timid, 
but  audacious  ;  well-disposed,  but  easily 
led  astray  ;  shrewd,  but  easily  gulled  by 
jiractising  on  his  vanity  ;  good-natured, 
but  without  moral  principle.  The  tale, 
according  to  one  account,  is  based  on 
Matteo  Aleman's  Spanish  romance,  called 
the  Life  (f  Guzman  ;  others  maintain 
that  the  original  was  the  comic  romance 
entitled  Belaciones  de  la  Tida  del  £sci(- 
dero  Marcos  de  Ohregon. 

_  Gil'bertines  (3  syl.,  (^  hard).  A  re- 
ligious order  founded  in  the  twelfth 
century  by  St.  Gilbert  of  Lincolnshire. 

Gild  the  Pill  {To).  To  do  some- 
tliing  to  make  a  disagreeable  task  less 
offensive,  as  a  pill  is  gilded  to  make  it  less 
offensive  to  the  sight  and  taste.  Child- 
ren's powders  are  hidden  in  jam,  and 
authors  are  "damned  with  faiiit praise." 

Gilded  Chamber  ( Th  c) .  The  House 
of  Lords. 

"Mr.  Rowland  Winn  is  now  Lord  St.  Oswald, 
and  after  years  spent  in  the  Lower  House  he  has 
retired  to  the  calm  of  the  prilded  chainljer."— 
Aew.ipapcr  paragraph,  June  I'Cth,  1885. 

Gilderoy'  (3  syl.,  cj  hard).  A  famous 
robber,  who  robbed  'Cardinal  Bichelieu 


and  Oliver  Cromwell.  There  was  a 
Sootch  robber  of  the  same  name  in  the 
reign  of  Queen  Mary.  Both  were  noted 
for  their  handsome  pei'sous,  and  both 
were  hanged. 

Gilderoy's  Kite.  lUgher  than  Gil- 
diroifn  kite.  To  bo  hung  higher  than 
Gilderoy's  kite  is  to  be  imnished  more 
severely  than  the  very  worst  crimiiuil. 
The  greater  the  crime,  the  higher  the 
gallows,  was  at  one  time  a  practical 
legal  axiom.  Haman,  it  will  be  remem- 
bered, was  hanged  on  a  very  highgallows. 
The  gallows  of  Montofose  was  30  feet 
high.     The  ballad  saj's : — 

"  Of  (iilderoy  sac  fraid  they  were 
Thi'y  hound  him  nacklc  stroMK, 
Till  Edonlmrrow  they  led  him  tliair 

And  un  a  Lrallows  JKini,'  ; 
Tliey  lion:.'  him  liit,'h  ahone  the  rest, 
Jlf  was  so  trim  a  hoy  .  .  .  ." 
He  was  "  honBabono  llic  rest  "of  the  criminals 
hecause  his  cr.mes  were  deemed  to  he  more  hein- 
ous.   .So  hit'h  ho  Luuj,'  he  looked  like  "a  kite" 
in  the  clouds. 

Gildip'pe  (in  Jerusalem  Delivered). 
Wife  of  Jiilward,  an  English  baron.  She 
accomininied  her  husband  to  the  Holy 
War,  and  pcrfonned  prodigies  of  valour 
(book  ix.).  Botli  she  and  her  husband 
Avere  slain  by  Solyman  (book  xx.). 

Giles  (1  syl.,  g  soft).  The  "fanner's 
boy  "  in  ]31oomfield's  poem  so  called. 

Giles  {St.).  Patron  saint  of  cripples. 
The  tradition  is  that  the  king  of  France, 
hunting  in  the  desert,  accidentally 
wounded  the  hcnnit  in  the  knee  ;  and 
the  hemiit,  that  he  might  the  better 
mortify  the  flesh,  refusing  to  be  cured, 
remained  a  crii>i)le  for  life. 

The  sj-rabol  of  this  saint  is  a  hind,  in 
allusion  to  the  "heaven-directed  hind" 
which  went  daily  to  his  cave  near  the 
mouth  of  the  Bhone  to  give  him  milk. 
He  is  sometimes  rejiresented  as  an  old 
man  with  an  arrow  in  his  knee  and  a 
hind  by  his  side. 

St.  Giles'' s  parish.  Generally  situated 
in  the  outskirts  of  a  city,  and  originally 
without  the  walls,  cripples  and  beggars 
not  being  permitted  to  jmss  the  gates. 

Hoppiuej  or  Hobbling  Giles.  A  lame 
person;  so  called  from  St.  Giles,  the 
tutelar  saint  of  cripples.     {See  Ceieple- 

GATE.) 

Lame  as  St.  Gilcs\  Cripplegatc.  {Sec 
abore.) 

Giles  Overreach  {Sir).  A  Keiv 
Way  to  Fag  Old  JJebts,  by  Massinger. 
The  "  Academy  figure  "  of  this  charac- 
ter was  Sir  Giles  Mompesson,  a  notorious 
usurer,  banished  the  kingdom  for  liis 
misdeeds. 


Giles 


il9 


Gingerbread 


Giles  of  Antwerp  {n  soft).  Giles 
Coigiiet,  the  painter  (1.530-1600). 

Gill  {(J  soft)  or  JUL  A  geueric  name 
foi-  a  lass,  a  sweetheart.  (A  contraction 
of  Glllinn  =  Juliana,  Julia.) 

"  JackandJill  weut  up  tlicliill  ...."' 

Xurscry  Itlii/mes. 
"Every  Jack  lias  got  his  Jill  (i.e.  Ilka  laddie 
lias  his  lassie;."— iJHi/is. 

Gill  {Ha )■)■>/).     A  farmer  stinick  with 
the  curse  of   ever   shiveiing  with  cold, 
because  he  would  not  allow  old  Goody 
Blake  to  keep  a  few  stray  sticks  which 
she  had  picked  up  to  wann  herself  by. 
"  Oh  !  what's  tlie  matter  ?  what's  tlie  matter  ? 
What  is't  tliat  ail.s  vouii?;  Harr.v  (iill, 
Tliat  evermore  his  teetli  thev  chatter, 
Cliatter,  ciiatter,  cliattcr,  still  ■:•.... 
Xo  Weird  til  any  man  lie  utters, 
A-lied  or  nil,  to  youiii,'  or  olil  ; 
But  ever  to  liimself  he  mutters— 
"  Poor  Harry  Gill  is  very  cold.'' 
Wordsworth :  Goody  Blake  and  Harry  Gill. 

Gills  (^  hard).  Wipe  your  gills  (yonr 
mouth).  The  gills  of  fishes,  like  the 
mouth  of  man,  are  the  organs  of  respi- 
ration. 

Gillie  (f/  hard).  A  servant  or  at- 
tendant ;  the  man  who  leads  a  pony 
about  when  a  child  is  riding.  A  r/illic- 
wst-foot  is  a  barefooted  Highland  lad. 

"Tliese  gillie-wet-fiiots,  as  they  were  called, 
were  destined  to  heat  the  bushes."— .S'ir  )r«/(ir 
Scott:   Uaarlcy,  chap.  xiii. 

Gillies'  Hill.  In  the  battle  of  Ban- 
nockbuni  (1314)  King  Robert  Bruce 
ordered  all  the  servants,  drivers  of  carts, 
and  camp  followers  to  go  behind  a  height. 
Wlien  the  battle  seemed  to  favour  the 
Scotch,  these  servants,  or  gillies,  desirous 
of  sharing  in  the  plunder,  rushed  from 
their  concealment  with  such  arms  as 
they  could  lay  hands  on  ;  and  the  Eng- 
lish, thinking  them  to  be  a  new  armj-, 
tied  in  panic.  The  height  in  honour 
was  ever  after  called  The  Gillies'  Hill. 
(Sir  Walter  Scott :  Tales  of  a  Grand- 
father, X.) 

Gillyflower  (r/  soft)  is  not  the  Jahj- 
flower,  but  the  French  ffiroflcc,  from 
giroflc  (a  clove),  called  by  Chaucer  "  gi- 
lofre."  The  common  stock,  the  wall- 
flower, the  rocket,  the  clove  i^ink,  and 
several  other  plants  are  so  called.  (Greek 
karuoph alien  ;  Latin,  canjoplnjllum,  the 
clove  gillyflower.) 

"  Tlie  fairest  flowers  o'  the  season 
Are  our  carnations  and  streaked  pillyflowers." 
Shakespeare  :  Winter's  Tale,  iv.  -J. 

Gilpin  {Joh)i),  of  Cowper's  famous 
ballad,  is  a  caricature  of  Mr.  Beyer,  an 
eminent  linendraper  at  the  end  of  Pater- 
noster Row,  where  it  joins  Cheapside. 
He  died  1791,  at  the  age  of  98.  It  was 
Lady  Austin  who  told  the  adventure  to 


our  domestic  poet,  to  divert  him  from 
his  melancholy.  The  marriage  adventure 
of  Commodore  Trunnion  in  I'crcyrine 
Fickle  is  very  similar  to  the  wedding- 
day  adventure  of  John  Gilpin. 

"  John  Gilpin  was  a  citizen 
()t  credit  and  renown  ; 
A  rraiiiliand  captain  eke  was  he 
Of  famous  Loudon  town." 

Cowper :  John  Gilpin. 

"  Some  insist  that  the  "  trainband 
captain"  was  one  Jonathan  Gilpin, 
who  died  at  Bath  in  1770,  lea'ving  his 
daughter  a  legacy  of  £20,000. 

Gilt  {g  hard),  lo  take  the  gilt  off  the 
giiiycrbrtad.  To  destroy  the  illusion. 
The  reference  is  to  gingerbread  watches, 
men,  and  other  gilded  toys,  sokl  at  fairs. 
These  eatables  were  common  even  in  the 
reign  of  Hcnrj'  IV. ,  but  were  then  made 
of  honey  instead  of  treacle. 

Gilt-edge  Investments.  A  phrase 
introduced  in  the  last  quarter  of  the 
19th  century  (when  so  many  investments 
proved  worthless),  for  investments  in 
which  no  risks  are  incurred,  such  as 
debentures,  preference  shares,  first  mort- 
gages, and  shares  in  first-rate  companies. 

Giltspur  Street  (W^cst  Smithfield). 
Tlie  route  taken  by  the  gilt-spurs,  or 
knights,  on  their  way  to  Smithfield, 
Avhere  toimiaments  were  held. 

Gimlet  Eye  {g  hard).  A  squint- 
eye  ;  strictly  .speaking,  "  an  eye  that 
wanders  obliquel}%"  jocosely  called  a 
"piercer."  (Welsh,  ^iviiii,  a  movement 
round  ;  (^icimlaiv,  to  twist  or  move  in  a 
serpentine  direction;  Celtic,  giiimble.) 

Gimmer  (g  soft),  ovJimincr,  a  jointed 
hinge.  In  Somersetshire,  gimmace.  We 
have  also  gcmcl.  A  gimmal  is  a  double 
ring  ;  hence  gimmal-bit.  {Shakespeare  : 
lleiirg  J'.,  iv.  2.) 

Gin  Sling.  A  drink  made  of  gin 
and  water,  sweetened  and  flavoured. 
"Sling"=  Collins,  the  inventor,  con- 
tracted into  cUiiis,  and  jierverted  into 
slings. 

Gin'evra  {g  soft).  The  young  Italian 
bi-ide  who  liid  in  a  trunk  with  a  spring- 
lock.  The  lid  fell  upon  her,  and  she 
was  not  discovered  till  the  body  had 
become  a  skeleton.     {liogers  :  Italy.) 

"  Be  the  cause  what  it  might,  from  his  offer  she 
shrunk. 
And  Ginevra-like,  shut  herself  up  in  a  trunk."  J 
Loirell. 

Gingerbread.  The  best  used  to 
be  made  at  Grantham,  and  Grantham 
gingerbread  was  as  much  a  locution  as 
Everton  toffy,  or  tuffy  as  we  used  to 


Gingerbread 


520 


Gipsy 


call  it  in  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth 
century. 

To  (jet  the  gilt  off  the  gingcrbredd.  To 
appropriate  all  the  fun  or  i)rofit  and 
leave  the  capnt  iiiortHxiii  behind.  In  the 
first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century 
gingerbread  cakes  were  i)rofusely  deco- 
rated with  gold-leaf  or  Dutch-leaf, 
which  looked  like  gold. 

Gingerbread  (;/  soft).  Brummagem 
wares,  showy  but  worthless.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  the  gilt  gingerbread  toys  sold 
at  fairs. 

Gingerbread  Husbands.  Ginger- 
bread cakes  fasliioued  like  men  and 
gilt,  commouly  sold  at  fairs  up  to  the 
middle  of  the  nineteenth  centiuy. 

Gingerly.  Cautiously,  with  faltering 
steps.  The  Scotch  phrase,  "  gang  tliat 
gate,"  and  the  Anglo-Sa.xon  gangcudc 
(going),  ajjplied  to  an  army  looking  out 
for  ambuscades,  would  furnish  tlie  ad- 
verb gamjoidclic ;  Swedish,  gingla,  to 
go  gently. 

"Gingerly,  as  if  treading  uimu  eggs,  Cuddio 
began  to  ascend  tlie  woU-knowu  pass." — iicott: 
Uld  Moi-taliti/,  chilli,  xxv. 

Gingham.  So  called  from  Guingamp, 
a  town  in  Brittanj-,  where  it  was  origin- 
ally manufactured  (Littre) .  A  common 
playful  equivalent  of  umbrella. 

Ginnunga  Gap.  The  abyss  between 
Niflheim  (the  region  of  fog)  and  Mus- 
pelheim  (the  region  of  heat).  It  existed 
before  either  laud  or  sea,  heaven  or 
earth.     {Scandinavian  mythology.) 

Gi'ona  {g  soft).  A  leader  of  the  Ana- 
baptists, once  a  servant  of  Comte  d'O'ber- 
thal,  but  discharged  from  his  service  for 
theft.  In  tlie  rebellion  headed  by  the 
Anabaptists,  Giona  took  the  Coinit  pri- 
soner, but  John  of  Leyden  set  him  free 
again.  Giona,  with  the  rest  of  the  con- 
spirators, betrayed  their  prophet  king  as 
soon  as  the  Emperor  arrived  with  his 
army.  They  entered  the  banquet  room 
to  arrest  him,  but  perished  in  the  flaming 
palace.  {Meyerbeer:  Lc  Trophete,  an 
opera.) 

Giotto.  Round  as  Giotto's  0.  An 
Italian  proverb  applied  to  a  dull,  stupid 
fellow.  Tlie  Pope,  wishing  to  obtain 
some  art  decorations,  sent  a  messenger 
to  obtain  specimens  of  the  chief  artists 
of  Italy.  The  messenger  came  to  Giotto 
and  delivered  his  message,  whereupon 
the  artist  simply  drew  a  circle  with  red 
paint.  The  messenger,  in  amazement, 
asked  Giotto  if  that  were  all.  Giotto 
replied,  "  Send  it,  and  we  shall  see  if 
his  Holiness  imdevstands  the  hint."    A 


specimen   of   genius   about    equal   to  a 
brick  as  a  specimen  of  an  edifice. 

Giovan'ni  {Don).  A  Spanish  liber- 
tine. (-Sh' Juan.)  His  valet,  Leporello, 
says  his  master  had  "  in  Italy  700  mis- 
tresses, in  Germany  800,  in  Turkey  and 
France  91,  in  Spain  1,008."  When  "the 
measure  of  his  inicpiity  was  full,"  the 
ghost  of  the  command:int  wliom  he  had 
slain  came  with  a  legion  of  "  foul 
fiends,"  and  carried  him  oft'  to  a  "dread- 
ful gulf  that  opened  to  devour  him." 
{Mozart:  Don  (/ioranni,  Libretto  by 
Lorenzo  da  I'oiite.) 

Gipsy  {g  soft).  Said  to  be  a  corrup- 
tion of  F.yyptian,  and  so  called  because 
in  1418  a  band  of  them  appeared  in 
Europe,  commanded  by  a  leader  named 
Uuk.'  Mi.  lianl  of  "  Little  Egypt."  Other 
appellations  are  : 

(2)  liohv'mians.  So  called  by  the 
French,  because  the  first  that  ever  ar- 
rived in  their  country  came  from  Bo- 
hemia in  1427,  and  presented  themselves 
before  the  gates  of  I'aris.  They  were 
not  allowed  to  enter  the  city,  but  were 
lodged  at  La  Chapelle,  St.  Denis.  The 
French  nickname  for  gip'sies  is  cagou.v 
(unsociables). 

(3)  Ciga'nos.  So  called  by  tlie  Portu- 
guese, a  corrui^tion   of    Zinga'ne.     {See 

TCHINGA'NI.) 

(4)  Gita'nos.  So  called  by  the  Span- 
iards, a  corruption  of  Zinga'ne.  {See 
Tchinoa'ni.) 

(5)  Ileidois  (heathens).  So  called  by 
the  Dutch,  because  they  are  heathens. 

(6)  Pharaoh -nepelc  (Pharaoh's  peojile). 
So  called  in  Hungary,  from  the  notion 
that  they  came  from  Egyjjt. 

(7)  Sii/te.  So  called  by  themselves, 
because  they  assert  that  they  came  from 
Sind,  i.e.  Ind  (Hindustan).  {See  Tchin- 
oa'ni.) 

(8)  Tatar.  So  called  by  the  Danes 
and  Swedes,  from  the  notion  that  they 
came  from  Tartary. 

(9)  Tchinria'iii  ov  Tshiiifiani.  So  called 
by  the  Turks,  from  a  tribe  still  existing 
at  the  mouth  of  the  Indus  {Tnhiu-cah, 
black  Indian). 

(10)  IJ'ala'chians.  So  called  by  the 
Italians,  from  the  notion  that  they  came 
from  Walachia. 

(11)  Zigeu'ner  (wanderers).  So  called 
by  the  Germans. 

(12)  Zinra'li  or  Zinga'ni.  Said  to  be 
so  called  by  the  Turks,  because  in  1517 
they  were  led  by  Zinga'neus  to  revolt 
from  Sultan  Selim  ;  but  more  likely  a 
mere  variety  of  Tchingani  {q.v.). 

V  Their  language,  called  "Romanj-," 


Gipsy 


521 


Girl 


contaius  about  5,000  words,  the  chief  of 
which  are  con'upt  Sanskrit. 

V  There  is  a  legend  that  these  people 
are  waifs  and  strays  on  the  earth,  because 
they  refused  to  shelter  the  Virgin  and 
her  child  in  their  flight  to  Egypt.  {Avot- 
linii.s,  Aniidkn  Bo'wrion,  chaj).  viii.) 

Gipsy  {The).  Anthony  de  Sola'rio, 
the  painter  and  illummator,  II  Zingaro 
(1382-1455). 

Giral'da  (;/  soft).  The  giantess;  a 
statue  of  victory  on  the  top  of  au  old 
Mooris^h  tower  in  Seville. 

Gird.  To  gird  with  the  sirord.  To 
raise  to  a  peerage.  It  was  the  Saxon 
method  of  investitiu-e  to  an  earldom, 
continued  after  the  Conquest.  Thus, 
Richard  I.  "  gu'ded  with  the  sword" 
Hugh  de  Pudsey,  the  aged  Bishop  of 
Diu'ham,  making  (as  he  said)  "  a  young 
earl  of  au  old  prelate." 

Gird  up  the  Loins  {To).  To  pre- 
pare for  hard  work  or  a  journey.  The 
Jews  wore  a  girdle  only  when  at  work 
or  on  a  jouniej".  Even  to  the  present  day. 
Eastern  people,  who  wear  loose  diesses, 
gird  them  about  the  loins. 

"The  loose  tunic  was  an  inconvenient  walking 
dress  :  tberefore,  when  iiersons  went  from  home, 
they  tied  a  ginlle  round  it  (i  Kings  i  v.  •> ;  ix.  1  ; 
Isaiah  v.  -ll  ■  Jeremiah  i.  17  ;  John  xxi.  7  ;  Acts 
xii.  S)."~JaUii:  Archeologia  Diblica  (section  li'l). 

Girder  (A).  A  cooper.  Hoops  are 
girders.  John  Girder = John,  the  coojjer, 
a  character  in  The  Bride  of  Zaiiuiicniioor, 
by  Sir  Walter  Scott. 

Girdle  (g  hard).  A  good  name  is 
better  than  a  golden  girdle.  A  good  name 
is  better  than  money.  It  used  to  be 
customary  to  carry  money  in  the  girdle, 
and  a  girdle  of  gold  meant  a  "purse  of 
gold."  The  French  proverb,  '■'■Bonne 
renommee  rant  mieiix  que  ceinture  duree" 
refers  rather  to  the  custom  of  wearing 
girdles  of  gold  tissue,  forbidden,  in  1420, 
to  women  of  bad  character. 

Children  under  the  girdle.  Not  yet 
bom. 

"All  children  under  the  pii;<lle  at  the  time  of 
marriage  are  held  to  be  legiinniate."— .YoUji  and 

Queries. 

If  he  be  angrg,  he  knoics  how  to  turn 
his  girdle  {Much  Ado  about  Nothing, 
V.  1).  If  he  is  angry,  let  him  prepare 
himself  to  fight,  if  he  likes.  Before 
wrestlers,  in  ancient  times,  engaged  in 
combat,  they  turned  the  buckle  of  their 
girdle  behind  them.  Thus,  Sir  Ealph 
Wiuwood  writes  to  Secretary  Cecil  : 

"I  said.  'What  I  spake  was  not  to  make  him 
angry.'  He  reidied, '  If  I  were  ani-'rv,  I  might  turn 
the  buckle  of  my  girdle  befiind  pie.'  "—Dec.  17, 
J6Qi,  ° 


He  has  a  large  mouth  but  small  girdle. 
Great  expenses  but  small  means.  The 
girdle  is  the  pui'se  or  purse-pocket.  (6t'e 
above.) 

He  has  undone  her  girdle.  Taken  her 
for  his  wedded  wife.  The  Eoman  bride 
wore  a  chaplet  of  flowers  on  her  head, 
and  a  girdle  of  sheep's  wool  about  her 
waist.  A  part  of  the  marriage  ceremony 
was  for  the  bridegi-oom  to  loose  this 
girdle.     {Vaughan  :  Golden  Grove.) 

The  Persian  regulation-girdle.  In  Per- 
sia a  new  sort  of  "Procrustes  Bed"  is 
adopted,  according  to  Kemper.  One  of 
the  officers  of  the  king  is  styled  the 
"chief  holder  of  the  girdle,"  and  his 
business  is  to  measure  the  ladies  of  the 
harem  by  a  sort  of  regulation-girdle. 
If  any  lady  has  outgrown  the  standard, 
she  is  reduced,  like  a  jockey,  by  s^jare 
diet ;  but,  if  she  falls  short  thereof,  she 
is  fatted  up,  like  a  Strasburg  goose,  to 
regulation  size.     {See  Peoceusies.) 

2h  put  a  girdle  round  the  eartli.  To 
travel  or  go  round  it.  Puck  saj-s,  "I'll 
put  a  girdle  round  about  the  earth  in 
forty  minutes."  {Jlidsniniiier  XighVs 
Bream,  ii.  2.) 

Girdle  {FlorimeVs).  The  prize  of  a 
grand  tournament  in  which  Sir  Satyrane 
and  several  otliers  took  part.  It  was 
dropi^ed  by  Florimel,  picked  uj)  by  Sir 
Satyrane,  and  employed  by  him  to  bind 
the  monster  sent  iu  her  pursuit ;  but  it 
came  again  into  the  hands  of  the  knight, 
who  kept  it  iu  a  golden  casket.  It  was 
a  "  gorgeous  girdle  made  by  Vulcan  for 
Venus,  embossed  with  pearls  and  precious 
stones ;  "  but  its  chief  virtue  was 
"  It  gave  the  virtue  of  chaste  love. 

And  wifehood  true  to  all  that  it  did  bear  ; 

But  whosoever  cimtrary  doth  prove 
Might  not  the  same  about  her  middle  wear, 

But  it  would  loose,  or  else  asunder  tear." 

Hpcnser :  Faerie  Qttccne,  book  iii.  canto  vii.  31. 

V  King  Arthur's  Drinking  Honi,  and 
the  Court  Mantel  in  Orlando  I'urioso, 
possessed  similar  vu'tucs. 

Girdle  (St.  Col/iian's)  would  meet 
only  round  the  chaste. 

'■  In  Ireland  it  yet  remains  to  lie  iiroved  wlietber 
St.  t'olman's  girdle  has  not  lost  its  virtue'  [tho 
reference  is  to  Charles  S.  VM-ueW^.—Siiicteeittlt 
Century,  Feb.,  1891,  ii.  -(J6. 

Girdle  of  Venus.    {See  Cestus.) 

Girl.  This  word  has  given  rise  to  a 
host  of  guesses  :  — 

Bailey  suggests  riarrula,  a  chatterbox. 

Jlinshew  ventui-es  the  Italian  girella,  a  weather- 
cock. 

Skinner  goes  in  for  the  Anglo-Saxon  ceorl,  a 
churl. 

Why  not  girdle,  as  young  women  before  mar- 
riage wore  a  girdle  [gir'le^  ;  and  iiart  of  a  Komau 
maiTiage  ceremony  was  for  the  bridegrooa;  to 
loose  tlie  zone. 


Girondists 


522 


Glasgow  Arms 


As  for  guessinK,  tlie  word  guU  may  put  in  a 
claim  (1  Ilewri/  iv.  1);  so  may  the  Greek  koure, 
a  t'ii'l>  ■*vitU  a  diminutive  suffix  kuurc-la,  wheucu 
go'urUi,  goiirl,  yurh  girl. 

(Tlie  Latin  'icrtila  means  a  maid  that  attends  on 
a  cliilil.    Cliauccr  si'clls  Ibe  word  gtirl.) 

Tniliahlv  tlie  word  is  a  variation  of  darVutg, 
Ani.'lii-Saxi>n,(/eor;()i!/. 

Giron'dists  [r/  soft).  French,  Giroii- 
fUi/s,  moderate  republicans  in  the  lirst 
French  Revolution.  So  called  from  the 
department  of  Girondc,  -which  chose  for 
the  Legislative  Assembly  hve  men  who 
greatly  distinguished  themselves  for 
their  oratory,  and  formed  a  political 
party.  They  were  subsequently  joined 
by  Brissot,  Condorcet,  and  the  adherents 
of  Roland.  The  party  is  called  T/ie 
Girondc.     (1791-93.) 

"  The  new  assembly,  called  the  Legislative  As- 
senit.lv,  met  October  1,  1791.  Its  more  moderate 
members  formed  the  party  called  the  Girondists." 
— C.  M.  I'onge :  France,  chap.  ix.  p.  V>8. 

Gir'ouet'te  (3  syl.,  ^  soft).  A  turn- 
coat, a  weathercock  (French).  The  I>ic- 
tioi/Jiairc  dcs  Giroucttcs  contarus  the 
names  of  the  most  noted  turncoats,  with 
their  political  veerings. 

Gis  {g  soft)  i.e.  Jesus.  A  corruption 
of  Jesus  or  J.  H.  S.  Ophelia  says  "  By 
Gis  and  by  St.  Charity."    [Ramlct,  iv.  5.) 

Gita'nos.    {Sec  Gipsy.) 

Give  and  Take    (poUci/).      One  of 
mutual  forbearance  and  accommodation. 
"[His]  wife  jospred  along  with  him  very  com- 
fortably with  a  give  and  take  Jiolicy  for  many 
years."— Hugh  Conway. 

Give  it  Him  (7b).  To  scold  or 
thrash  a  person.  As  "  I  gave  it  him 
right  and  left."  "  I'll  give  it  you  when 
I  catch  you."  An  elliptical  phrase,  dare 
pceiiani.     "  Give  it  him  well." 

Give  the  Boys  a  Holiday.  Anaxag'- 
onis,  on  his  death-bed,  being  asked  what 
honour  should  be  conferred  upon  liini, 
replied,  "  Give  the  boj's  a  holiday." 

Give  the  Devil  his  Due.  Though 
bad,  I  allow,  yet  not  so  bad  as  you  make 
him  out.  Do  not  lay  more  to  the  charge 
of  a  person  th^'in  he  deserves.  The 
French  saj',  ''//  nc  fnut  pas  f aire  Ic  diahlc 
plus  iioir  qn'il  n''est."  The  Italians  have 
the  same  proverb,  '' Kon  bisogna  fare  il 
diahio  pin  nero  chc  non  f." 

Tlic  dcril  is  not  so  hlacJc  m  he  isjJai/itcd. 
Every  black  has  its  white,  as  well  as 
every  sweet  its  sour. 

Gizzard.  DonH  fret  your  gizzard. 
Don't  be  so  anxious  ;  don't  worry  your-' 
self.  The  Latin  .stomach  us  means 
temper,  etc.,  as  well  as  stomach  or 
"  gizzard."     (French,  gesier.) 


That  stuck  in  his  gizzard.  Annoyed 
him,  was  more  than  he  could  digest. 

Gjallar.  Ileimdall's  horn,  which  he 
blows  to  give  the  gods  notice  when  any 
one  is  ajiproaching  the  bridge  Bifrost 
{q.r.).     {Scanduiavuoi  iiigihologg.) 

Glacis.  The  slopiiug  mass  on  the 
outer  edge  of  the  covered  icag  in  fortifica- 
tion. Immediately  without  the  '  'ditches" 
of  the  place  fortified,  there  is  a  road  of 
communication  all  round  the  fortress 
(about  thirty  feet  wide),  having  on  its 
exterior  edge  a  coveretl  mass  of  earth 
eight  feet  high,  slojiing  off  gently  to- 
wards the  open  countrj^.  The  road  is 
technically  called  the  covered  ivag,  and 
the  sloping  mass  the  glacis. 

Gladsheim  [IToinr  ef  jog].  The 
largest  ;ind  most  magnificent  mansion  of 
the  Scandinavian  iEsir.  It  contains 
twelve  seats  besides  the  throne  of  Al- 
fader.  The  great  hall  of  Gladshcun  was 
called  "Valhalla." 

Gladstone  Bag  {J) .  A  black  letither 
bag  of  various  sizes,  till  convenient  to  be 
hand-carried.  These  btigs  have  two 
handles,  and  arc  made  so  as  not  to  touch 
the  gi-ouud,  like  the  older  carpet  ])ags. 
Called  Gladstone  in  compliment  to  W.  E. 
Gladstone,  many  years  leader  of  the 
Liberal  party, 

Glamorgan.  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth 
says  that  Cuudah'  and  Morgan,  the  sous 
of  Gonorill  and  Regan,  usurped  the 
crown  at  the  death  of  Cordeilla.  The 
former  resolved  to  reign  alone,  chased 
Morgan  into  Wales,  and  slew  him  at  the 
foot  of  a  hill,  hence  called  Gla-Morgan 
or  Glyn-Morgan,  valley  of  Morgan. 
{See  Spcnxcr :  luieric  Q/ieene,  ii.  10.) 

Glasgow  Arms.  An  oak  tree,  a  bell 
hanging  on  one  of  the  branches,  a  bird 
at  the  top  of  the  tree,  and  a  salmon  with 
a  ring  in  its  mouth  at  the  base. 

St.  Kentigeni,  in  the  seventh  century, 
took  up  his  abode  on  the  banks  of  a  little 
stream  which  falls  iuto  the  Clyde,  the 
site  of  the  present  city  of  Glasgow. 
Upon  an  oak  in  the  clearing  he  hung  a 
bell  to  summon  the  savages  to  worship, 
hence  the  oak  and  the  bell.  Now  for 
the  other  two  emblems  :  A  queen  having 
formed  an  illicit  attachment  to  a  soldier, 
gave  him  a  precious  ring  which  the  king 
had  given  her.  The  king,  aware  of  the 
fact,  stole  upon  the  soldier  in  sleep, 
abstracted  the  ring,  threw  it  into  the 
Clyde,  and  then  asked  the  queen  for  it. 
The  queen,  in  alarm,  applied  to  St. 
Kentigern,  who  knew  the  whole  affaii- ; 


Glasgow 


523 


Glasse 


and  the  saiiit  went  to  the  Clyde,  caught 
a  salmon  with  the  ring  in  its  mouth, 
handed  it  to  the  queen,  and  was  thus  the 
means  of  restoring  i:>eace  to  the  royal 
couple,  and  of  reforming  the  repentant 
queen. 

?  The  queen's  name  wasLangoureth, 
the  king's  name  Rederech,  and  the  Clyde 
was  then  called  the  Clud. 

"  The  tree  (liMt  never  grew, 
Tlie  liinl  that  never  tlcw, 
Tlie  (Ish  tliiit  never  swam, 
TLe  hell  that  never  ra,ug." 

V  A  similar  legend  is  told  of  Dame 
Kehecca  Berry,  wife  of  Thomas  Elton, 
of  Stratford  Bow,  and  relict  of  Sir  John 
Berry  (IGUG).  Rebecca  Berry  is  the 
heroine  of  the  ballad  called  llic  C'nirl 
Knight,  and  the  story  says  that  a  knight 
passing  by  a  cottage,  heard  the  cries 
of  a  woman  in  labour,  and  knew  by 
his  occult  science  that  the  child  was 
doomed  to  be  his  wife.  He  tried  hard 
to  elude  his  fate,  and  when  the  child 
was  grown  uj),  took  her  one  day  to  the 
seaside,  intending  to  drown  her,  but  re- 
lented. At  the  same  time  he  threw  a 
ring  into  the  sea,  and  commanded  her 
never  a^ain  to  enter  his  presence  till  she 
brought  him  that  ring.  Rebecca,  dress- 
ing a  cod  for  dinner,  found  the  ring  in 
the  fish,  presented  it  to  Sir  John,  and 
became  his  wife.  The  Berry  arms  show 
a  fish,  and  on  the  dexter  chief  point  a 
ring  or  annulet. 

Glasgow  Magistrate  {A).  A  salt 
herring.  When  George  IV.  visited  Glas- 
gow some  wag  placed  a  salt  herring  on 
the  iron  guard  of  the  carri;ige  of  a 
well-known  magistrate  who  formed  one 
of  the  dei^utatiou  to  receive  him.  I 
remember  a  similar  joke  play  fed  on  a 
magistrate,  because  he  said,  during  a 
time  of  great  scarcity,  he  wondered  why 
the  poor  did  not  eat  salt  herrings,  which 
he  himself  found  very  appetising. 

Glass  is  from  the  Celtic  r/lns  (bluish- 
green),  the  colour  produced  by  the  woad 
employed  by  the  ancient  Britons  in 
dyeing  their  bodies.  Pliny  calls  it  glas- 
trtim,  and  Cajsar  viirinii. 

Glass  Breaker  {J).  A  wine -bibber. 
To  crack  a  bottle  is  to  drink  up  its  con- 
tents and  throw  away  the  empty  bottle. 
A  glass  breaker  is  one  who  drinks  what 
is  in  the  glass,  and  flings  the  glass  imder 
the  table.  In  the  early  part  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  it  was  by  no  means  un- 
usual with  topers  to  break  off  the  stand 
of  their  wineglass,  so  that  they  might 
uot  be  able  to  set  it  down,   but  were 


compelled  to  drink  it  clean  off,  without 
heel-taps. 

"  Trcitli,  ye're  nae  glass-hreaker;  and  neither  am 
I,  unless  It,  he  a  screed  wi'  the  neighlioiirs,  or 
when  I'm  ou  a  ramble."— fiir  W.HcUt:  Guy  Miin- 
licriiig,  cbap.  45. 

"We  never  were  slass-lireakers  in  this  bmise, 
BIr.  Lovel."— Sir  W.Scott:  The  Antiquary,  chAV.  in. 

Glass-eye.  A  blind  eye,  not  an  eye 
made  of  glass,  but  the  Danish  ylas-oie 
(wall-eye). 

Glass  Houses.  TJiosc  who  live  in 
f/!iiss  houses  ahotdd  not  throw  .stones. 
When,  on  the  union  of  the  two  crowns, 
London  was  inundated  with  Scotchmen, 
Buckingham  was  a  chief  instigator  of 
the  movement  against  them,  and  parties 
used  nightly  to  go  about  breaking  their 
windows.  In  retaliation,  a  party  of 
Scotchmen  smashed  the  windows  of  the 
Duke's  mansion,  which  stood  in  St. 
Martin's  Fields,  and  had  so  many  win- 
dows that  it  went  by  the  name  of  the 
"  Glass-house."  The  court  favourite 
appealed  to  the  king,  and  the  British 
Solomon  replied,  "  Steenie,  Steenie,  those 
wha  live  in  glass  housen  should  be  care- 
fu'  how  they  fling  stanes." 

V  This  was  not  an  original  remark  of 
the  English  Solomon,  but  only  the  apjdi- 
cation  of  an  existing  proverb  :  "El  que 
tiene  tejados  de  vidro,  no  tire  piedras  al 
de  su  vezino."  {yi/nez  cle  G/izjiian  : 
Proverhios.)  {See  aha  Chaucer's  I'roijlus, 
ii.) 

"Qni  a  sa  maison  de  verre, 
iSur  lo  voisin  nc  jette  piorre." 

Proverbea  en  Runes  (1064). 

Glass  Slipper  (of  Cinderella).  A 
curious  blunder  of  the  translator,  who 
has  mistaken  rair  (sable)  for  rerre 
(glass).  Sable  was  worn  only  by  kings 
and  princes,  so  the  fairy  gave  roj-al 
slippers  to  her  favourite.  Hamlet  says 
he  shall  discard  his  moumiug  and  re- 
sume "his  suit  of  sables"  (iii.  2). 

Glasse  (Mrs.  Hannah),  a  name  im- 
mortalised l)y  the  reputed  saying  in  a 
cookery  book,  "  First  catch  your  hare," 
then  cook  it  according  to  the  directions 
given.  This,  like  many  other  .smart 
sayings,  evidently  grew.  The  word  in 
the  cookery-book  is  "cast"  (J.c.  flay). 
"  Take  your  hare,  and  when  ft  is  cast  " 
(or  eased),  do  so  and  so.  {Sec  Case, 
Catch  youe  Haee.) 

"  We'll  make  you  some  sport  with  the  fox  ere 

■ne  case  \im\."—tihakespeare :  All's  Well,  etc., iii.  0. 

"Sinne  of  tbein  knew  me, 

Else  bad  the.v  cased  me  like  a  cony." 

Beaumont  and  Fletcher  :  Love's  Pilijrimaoe,  ii.  3. 

"  First  seoteh  your  hare  (though  not 
in  Mrs.  Glasse)  is  the  East  Anglian 
word  sea tc/i  (flay),  and  might  suggest  the 


Glassite 


524 


Glencoe 


play  of  words.  Mrs.  Glasse  is  the  pseu- 
donym which  Dr.  John  Hill  appended  to 
his  CoolvS  Oracle. 

Glassite  (^).  A  Sandemanian ;  a 
follower  of  John  Glass  (eighteenth  cen- 
tury). Members  of  this  Scotch  sect  are 
admitted  by  a  "  holy  kiss,"  and  abstain 
from  all  animal  food  which  has  not  been 
well  drained  of  blood.  John  Glass  con- 
demned all  national  establishments  of 
religion,  and  maintained  the  Congrega- 
tional system.  Robert  Sandemau  was 
one  of  his  disciples. 

Glastonbury,  in  Arthurian  legend, 
was  where  king  Arthur  Avas  buried. 
Selden,  in  his  llluntrutions  of  JJraijton, 
says  the  tomb  was  ' '  betwixt  two  ijillars," 
and  he  adds,  "  Henry  II.  gave  command 
to  Henry  de  Blois,  the  abbot,  to  make 
great  search  for  the  body,  which  was 
found  in  a  wooden  coffin  some  sixteen 
foote  deepe  ;  and  afterwards  was  found 
a  stone  on  whose  lower  side  was  fixt  a 
leaden  cross  with  the  name  inscribed." 
The  authority  of  Selden  no  doubt  is  very 
great,  but  it  is  too  great  a  tax  on  our 
credulity  to  credit  tliis  statement. 

Glaswe'gian.  Belonging  to  Glas- 
gow. 

Glauber  Salts.  So  called  from 
Johann  lludolph  Glauber,  a  German  al- 
chemist, who  discovered  it  in  16.58  in  his 
researches  after  the  jjliilosopher's  stone. 
It  is  the  sul2:)hate  of  soda. 

Glaucus  (of  Bffiotia).  A  fishennan 
who  instructed  Apollo  in  soothsaying. 
He  jumped  into  the  sea,  and  became  a 
marine  god.  Milton  alludes  to  him  in 
his  CojHiis  (Une  895) : 

"  [By]  old  s:iotbsaying  Glaucus'  spell." 

Glaucus  {Anotlicr).  Iwljaim,  GJaucus 
alter.  One  who  ruins  himself  by  horses. 
The  tale  is  that  Glaucus,  son  of  Sisyphus, 
would  not  allow  his  horses  to  breed,  and 
the  goddess  of  Love  so  infuriated  them 
that  they  killed  him. 

Glaucus'  Swop  {A).  A  one-sided 
bargain.  Alluding  to  the  exchange  of 
armour  between  Glaucos  and  Diome'des. 
As  the  armour  of  the  Lycian  was  of 
gold,  and  that  of  the  Greek  of  brass,  it 
was  like  bartering  precious  stones  for 
French  paste.  Moses,  in  Goldsmith's 
Vicar  of  Jrakefcl/l,  made  "  a  Glaucus' 
swop  "  with  the  spectacle-seller. 

Glaymore  or  Claymore  [2  sj\.).  The 
Scottish  great  sword.  It  used  to  be  a 
large  two-handed  sword,  but  was  subse- 
quently applied  to  the  broadsword  with 


the  basket-hilt.     (Gaelic,  elahlhamh,  a 
sword  ;  more,  great.) 

Glazier.  /*■  your  father  a  ejlazier  ? 
Does  he  make  windows,  for  you  stand  in 
my  liglit  and  expect  me  to  see  through 

you  y 

Gleek.  A  game  at  cards,  sometimes 
called  cleek.  Thus,  in  Epnom  IVells, 
Dorothy  says  to  Mrs.  Bisket,  ^'  IWl  make 
one  at  eleck,  l/iafs  better  than  ainj  tiCQ- 
/tniuled  f/aiiie.'''  Ben  Jonson,  in  the  Al- 
chemiKt,  speaks  of  gleek  and  prim'ero 
as  "  the  best  games  for  the  gallautest 
company." 

Gleek  is  j^layed  by  three  persons. 
Every  deuce  and  trois  is  thrown  out  of 
the  pack.  Twelve  cards  are  then  dealt 
to  each  player,  and  eight  are  left  for 
stock,  which  is  offered  in  rotation  to  the 
])layers  for  purchase.  The  trumps  are 
called  Tiddy,  Tumbler,  Tib,  Tom,  and 
Towser.  Gleek  is  the  German  (jUich 
(like),  intimating  the  point  on  which 
the  game  turns,  gleek  being  three  cards 
all  alike,  as  three  aces,  three  kings,  etc. 

Gleichen  [The  Cotintde).  A  German 
kniglit  married  to  a  lady  of  his  own 
country.  He  joined  a  crusade,  and, 
being  Vounded,  was  attended  so  dili- 
gently by  a  Saracen  princess  that  he 
married  her  also. 

Gleipnir.  The  chain  made  by  the 
fairies,  by  which  the  wolf  Fenrir  or 
Fenris  was  securely  chained.  It  was 
extremely  light,  and  made  of  such  things 
as  "the  roots  of  stones,  the  noise  made 
by  the  footfalls  of  a  cat,  the  beards  of 
women,  the  spittle  of  birds,  and  such 
like  articles." 

Glenco'e  ('2  sjd.).  The  massacre  of 
Glnieoe.  The  Edinburgh  authorities  ex- 
horted the  Jacobites  to  submit  to  Wil- 
liam and  Mary,  and  offered  pardon  to  all 
who  submitted  on  or  before  the  31st  of 
December,  1691.  Mac-Ian,  chief  of  the 
Macdonalds  of  Glencoe,  Avas  unable  to 
do  so  before  the  6th  of  January,  and  his 
excuse  was  sent  to  the  Council  at  Edin- 
burgh. The  Master  of  Stair  (Sir  John 
Dalrymple)  resolved  to  make  an  example 
of  Mac-Ian,  and  obtained  the  king's 
permission  "  to  extirpate  the  set  of 
thieves."  Accordingly,  on  the  1st  of 
February,  120  soldiers,  led  by  a  Captain 
Campbell,  marched  to  Glencoe,  told  the 
clan  they  were  come  as  friends,  and  lived 
peaceably  among  them  for  twelve  days  ; 
but  on  the  morning  of  the  13th,  the  glen- 
men,  to  the  number  of  thirty-eight, 
were  scandalously  murdered,  their  huts 
set  on  fire,  and  their  flocks  and  her(3s 


GlendOVeer 


525 


Glossiii 


driven  off  as  plunder.  Campbell  has 
■written  a  poem,  and  Talfourd  a  play  on 
the  suhject. 

Glendoveer',  in  Hindu  mythology, 
is  a  kind  of  sylph,  the  most  lovely  of  the 
good  spirits.  {See  Southey's  Curse  of 
Kehama.) 

•'  I  am  a  lilessed  Glendovepv, 

"Tis  mine  to  speak  ami  ynui's  tn  hear." 
Rejected  Addresses  (Imitalii)iis  of  Soiitliey). 

Glendower  (Oireii).  A  Welsh  cliief, 
one  of  the  most  active  and  formidable 
enemies  of  Henry  IV.  He  was  descended 
from  Llewellyn,  the  last  of  the  Welsh 
princes.  Sir  Edmund  Mortimer  married 
one  of  his  daughters,  and  the  husband 
of  Mortimer's  sister  was  Earl  Percy, 
generally  called  "Hotspur,"  who  took 
Douglas  f)risoDer  at  Homildon  Hill. 
Glendower,  Hotspur,  Douglas,  and  others 
conspired  to  dethrone  Henry,  but  the 
coalition  was  ruined  in  the  fatal  battle 
of  Shrewsbur}^  Shakespeare  makes  the 
Welsh  nobleman  a  wizard  of  great  di- 
versity of  talent,  but  especially  conceited 
of  the  prodigies  that  "  announced  "  his 
bii'th.     {Shakespeare:  \  Ilciiri/  I]'.) 

'    Glim.     {See  Douse  the  Glim.) 

Globe  of  Glass  {liei/narcrs).  To  con- 
sult liei/zHiriPs  (/lobe  of  r/Iass.  To  seek 
into  futurity  by  magical  or  other  de- 
vices. This  globe  of  glass  would  reveal 
what  was  being  done,  no  matter  how 
far  off,  and  would  afford  information  on 
any  subject  that  the  person  consulting 
it  wished  to  know.  The  globe  was  set 
in  a  wooden  frame  which  no  worm 
would  attack.  Reynard  said  he  had 
sent  this  invaluable  treasure  to  her 
majesty  tlie  queen  as  a  present ;  but  it 
never  came  to  hand,  inasmuch  as  it  had 
no  existence  excejjt  in  the  imagination 
of  the  fox.  {H.  roil  Alkmar  :  Meynarcl 
the  Fox.) 

Your  (lift  was  like  the  globe  of  glass  of 
blaster  lihjnard.  Vox  et  prteterea  n ih  > l. 
A  great  promise,  but  no  performance. 
{See  above.) 

Worthy  to  be  set  in  the  frame  of  Heg- 
narcVs  globe  of  glass.  Worthy  of  being 
imperishable  ;  Avorthy  of  being  preserved 
for  ever. 

Gloria.  A  cup  of  coffee  with  brandy 
in  it  instead  of  milk.  Sweetened  to 
taste. 

Gloria  in  Excelsis.  The  latter 
portion  of  this  doxology  is  ascribed  to 
Telesphorus,  a.d.  139.     {See  Gloey.) 

Gloria'na.  (Queen  Elizabeth  con- 
sidered as  a  sovereign.)  Spenser  says 
in  his  Faerie  Qucene  that  she  kept  an 


annual  feast  for  twelve  days,  during 
which  time  adventurers  appeared  before 
her  to  undertake  whatever  task  she  chose 
to  impose  upon  them.  On  one  occasion 
twelve  knights  presented  themselves 
before  her,  and  their  exploits  form  the 
scheme  of  Spenser's  allegory.  The  poet 
intended  to  give  a  separate  book  to  each 
knight,  but  only  si.x  and  a  half  books 
remain. 

Glorious  John.      John  Dryden,  the 

poet  (1031-1701). 

Glorious  First  of  June.  June  1st, 
179i,  when  Lord  Howe,  who  commanded 
the  Channel  fleet,  gained  a  decisive  vic- 
tory over  the  Freucli. 

Glorious  Uncertainty  of  the  Law 

{The),  17.36.  The  toast  of  Mr.  Wilbra- 
ham  at  a  dinner  given  to  the  judges  and 
counsel  in  Serjeant's  Hall.  This  diimer 
was  given  soon  after  Lord  Mansfield  had 
overruled  several  ancient  legal  decisions 
and  had  introduced  many  innovations  in 
the  practice. 

Glory.  Meaning  speech  or  the 
tongue,  so  called  by  the  Psalmist  be- 
cause speech  is  man's  speciality.  Other 
animals  see,  hear,  smell,  and  feel  quite 
as  well  and  often  better  than  man,  but 
rational  speech  is  man's  glory,  or  that 
which  distinguishes  the  race  from  other 
animals. 

"I  will  sing  ami  pive  iiraise  even  with  mj- 
glory." — Psalm  cviii.  1. 

"  That  my  glory  may  sing  praise  to  Thee,  and 
not  he  silent.  —Psalm  xxx.  1l'. 

"Awake  np  my  glory,  awake  psaltery  and  harp.'' 
—Psalm  Ivii.  8. 

Glory  Demon  ( 7V»') .     War. 

"  FrPBh  trniips  liacl  each  year  to  l.e  sent  off  to 
glut  the  mawoftlie  'Glory  Demon.' "—(,'.  Thom- 
son :  Autobiograjili!),  3_'. 

Glory  Hand.  In  folk  lore,  a  dead 
man's  hand,  supposed  to  possess  certain 
magical  projjerties. 

"De  hand  of  glory  is  hand  rnt  off  from  a  dead 
man  as  have  been  hanged  for  mnrther.  and  dried 
very  nice  in  de  shmoke  of  juniper  wood."— .S/r  M'. 
Scott:  The  Antiquanj  lUoiistciswivcl). 

Glory  be  to  the  Father,  etc.  The 
first  verse  of  this  dfixology  is  said  to  be 
by  St.  Basil.  During  the  Arian  con- 
troversy it  ran  thus  :  "  Glory  be  to  the 
Father^  by  the  Son,  and  in  the  Holy 
Ghost."   '  (.SVc  Gloria. ) 

Glossin  {Lawyer)  purchases  Ellan- 
gowan  estate,  and  is  found  by  Counsel- 
lor Pleydell  to  be  implicated  in  carrying 
off  Henry  Bertrand,  the  heir  of  the 
estate.  Both  Glossin  and  Dirk  Hatter- 
aick,  his  accomplice,  are  sent  to  prison, 
and  in  the  night  tlie  lawyer  contrives  to 


Gloucester 


526 


Gloves 


enter  the  smuggler's  cell,  when  a  quarrel 
ensues,  in  Avhich  Hatteraick  strangles 
him,  and  then  hangs  himself."     (-S'f'r  //". 

Hcott :  Gil//  Maiuicy'uig.) 

Glouces'ter  (2  syl.).  The  ancient 
Britons  called  the  town  Cner  Glou 
(bright  citj').  The  Romans  Latinised 
Glou  or  Glove  in  Glev-uin,  and  added 
colonia  (the  Roman  colony  of  Glev-um). 
The  Saxons  restored  the  old  British  ivord 
Glou,  and  added  caintcr,  to  signify  it  had 
been  a  Roman  camp.  Hence  the  word 
means  "Glou,  the  camp  city."  Geoffrey 
of  Monmouth  says,  when  Arvir'ngus 
married  Geuuissa,  daughter  of  Claudius 
Caesar,  he  induced  the  emperor  to  build 
a  city  on  the  spot  where  the  nuptials 
were  solemnised;  this  city  was  called 
Cacr-ClaiC,  a  contraction  of  Caer-Claud, 
conupted  into  Cacr  glou,  converted  by 
the  Romans  into  Glou-caster,  and  b}^  tlie 
Saxons  into  Glou-ceaster  or  Glou-cester. 
"Some,"  continues  the  same  "philolo- 
gist," "  derive  the  name  from  tlie  Duke 
Gloius,  a  sou  of  Claudius,  boi-n  in  Britain 
on  the  very  spot." 

Glove.  In  the  days  of  chivalry  it  was 
customary  for  knights  to  wear  a  lady's 
glove  in  their  helmets,  and  to  defend  it 
Avith  theii"  life. 

"  One  ware  on  his  Iio.ailiiipce  liis  ladies  sieve, 
and  anotlier  bare  on  livs  lielnie  the  plove  of  his 
doarlyn.ije."— J7(('(;  Cliruiiirle,  Henry  IV. 

Glove.  A  bribe.    ('S'w  Gloat;  Monet.) 
Hdiid  (1)1(1  glnrc.      Sworii  friends ;  on 

most  intimate  terms  ;  close  comiianions, 

like  glove  and  hand. 

"  And  prale  and  preach  alinnl.  what  others  prove, 
As  i£  the  world  and  they  were  hand  and  wlove." 
Ci)n-]iei\ 

He  hit  his  glare.  He  resolved  on 
mortal  revenge.  On  the  "Border,"  to 
l)ite  the  glove  was  considered  a  pledge  of 
deadly  vengeance. 

"  stern  Rutherford  riffht  little  said. 
But  liit  his  Klove  and  shook  his  head." 
«(■)■  ir«((or  Hcott :  Luy  of  the  Laxt  Min.'^lrel. 

Here  I  throw  dou-n  my  glove.  I  chal- 
lenge you.  In  allusion  to  an  ancient 
custom  of  a  challenger  throwing  his 
glove  or  gauntlet  at  the  feet  of  tlie 
jiersou  challenged,  and  bidding  him  to 
pick  it  up.  If  he  did  so  the  two  fought, 
and  the  vanquisher  was  considered  to  be 
adjudged  by  God  to  be  in  the  right.  To 
take  up  the  glove  means,  therefore,  to 
accept  the  challenge. 

"  I  will  throw  my  .clove  to  Death  itself,  that 
tliere  s  no  niacnlation  in  thy  \\ea.Yt:'— Shakespeare : 
Iroilus  and  Cressida,  iv.  4. 

To  tale  up  the  glove.  To  accept  the 
challenge  made  by  casting  a  glove  or 
gauntlet  on  the  ground. 


Jiight  as  my  glare.  The  phrase,  says 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  comes  from  the  custom 
of  pledging  a  glove  as  the  signal  of  irre- 
fragable faith.     {TItc  Aiitujiiarg.) 

Glove  Money.  A  bribe,  a  perquisite; 
so  culled  from  the  ancient  custom  of 
preseuting  a  pair  of  gloves  to  a  person 
who  undertook  a  cause  for  you.  Mrs. 
Croaker  presented  Sir  Thomas  More, 
the  Lord  Chancellor,  with  a  pair  of  gloves 
lined  with  forty  pounds  in  "  angels," 
as  a  "token."  Sir  Thomas  kept  the 
gloves,  but  returned  the  lining.  (See 
above.) 

Gloves  ai'e  not  worn  in  tlie  jireser.co 
of  royalty,  because  we  are  to  stand  un- 
armed, with  the  helmet  off  the  head  and 
gauntlets  off  tlie  hands,  to  show  wo  liave 
no  liostile  intention,    {hcc  Salxjtatioxs.) 

GloviK  used  to  lie  worn  by  the  clergy 
to  indicate  tliat  their  hands  are  clean 
and  not  open  to  bribes.  They  are  no 
longer  officially  worn  by  the  parochial 
cli'i'gy. 

Glovis  given  to  a  judge  in  a  maiden 
asxize.  In  an  assize  without  a  criminal, 
the  sheriff  presents  the  judge  witli  a  pair 
of  white  gloves.  Chambers  says,  an- 
ciently judges  were  not  allowed  to  wear 
gloves  on  the  bench  (Cyclopeedia).  To 
give  a  judge  a  i^air  of  gloves,  therefore, 
symbolised  that  lie  need  not  come  to  tlie 
bench,  but  might  wear  gloves. 

You  owe  me  a  pair  of  gloves.  A  small 
present.  The  gift  of  a  pair  of  gloves 
was  at  one  time  a  perquisite  of  those 
who  perfomied  small  services,  such  as 
pleading  j'our  cause,  arbitrating  jour 
quarrel,  or  showing  you  some  favour 
which  coidd  not  be  charged  for.  As  the 
services  became  more  important,  the 
glove  was  lined  with  monej',  or  made 
to  contain  some  coin  called  glove  money 
(q.r.).  Relics  of  this  ancient  custom 
were  common  till  the  last  quarter  of  a 
century  in  the  presentation  of  gloves  to 
those  who  attended  weddings  and  fune- 
rals. There  also  existed  at  one  time  the 
claim  of  a  pair  of  gloves  by  a  lady  who 
chose  to  salute  a  gentleman  cauglit 
napping  in  her  company.  In  The  Fair 
Maid  of  Fcrth,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott, 
Catherine  steals  from  her  chamber  on 
St.  Valentine's  morn,  and,  catching 
Henry  Smith  asleep,  gives  him  a  kiss. 
The  glover  says  to  him  : 

"('(Hiie  into  the  hnoth  with  me,  my  son,  and  I 
will  furnish  thee  with  a  titting  theme.  Thou 
knowest  the  maiden  who  ventures  to  kiss  a  sleep- 
ing man  wins  of  him  a  pair  of  gloves."— Chap.  v. 

In  the  next  chapter  Henry  presents  the 
gloves,  and  Catherine  accepts  them. 


Glubdubdrib 


527 


Go  it 


A  round  with  gloves.  A  friendly  con- 
test ;  a  fight  ■with  gloves. 

"■Will  yiiu  point  dut  bow  this  is  goiiiK  to  be  a 
genteel  iMiiiul  with  gloves  ?"—)rntsoji;  The  Web  of 
the  Spider,  chap.  ix. 

Glubdub'drib.  The  land  of  sorcerers 
and  magicians  visited  by  Gulliver  in  his 

Traveh.     {'Swift.) 

Gluckist  and  Picci'nists.  A  foolish 
rivalry  excited  in  Paris  (177-1-1780)  be- 
tween the  admirers  of  Gliick  and  those 
of  Picci'ni — the  former  a  German  musical 
composer,  and  the  latter  an  Italian. 
Marie  Antoinette  was  a  Gllickist,  and 
consequently  Young  France  favoured  the 
rival  claimant.  In  the  streets,  coffee- 
houses, private  houses,  and  even  schools, 
the  merits  of  Gliick  and  Piccinini  were 
canvassed  ;  and  all  Paris  was  ranged  on 
one  side  or  the  other.  This  was,  in  fact, 
a  contention  between  the  relative  merits 
of  the  German  and  Italian  school  of 
music.     {See  Bacbuc.) 

Glum  had  a  sword  and  cloak  given 
him  by  his  grandfather,  which  brought 
good  luck  to  their  possessors.  After  this 
jjresent  everything  jjrosxDcred  with  him. 
He  gave  the  spear  to  Asgrim  and  cloak 
to  Gizur  the  White,  after  which  every- 
thing went  wrong  with  him.  Old  and 
blind,  he  retained  his  cunning;  long  after 
he  Viad  lost  his  luck.     {Tlie  Xiah  Sa/ja.) 

To  look  (/hiiti.  To  look  dull  or  moody. 
(Scotch,  (/loum,  a  frown;  Dutch,  loo^ii, 
heavy,  dull ;  Anglo-Saxon,  yloni,  our 
fflooiti.  gloainUig,  etc.) 

Glumdal'clitch.  A  girl,  nine  years 
old,  and  only  forty  feet  high,  who  had 
charge  of  Gulliver  in  Brobdinguag. 
{'Sicijt'i :  Gulliver''s  Travels.) 
"  .Sonn  as  GUinKlilclitch  missed  her  pleasing  care, 
She  wept,  she  blubbered,  and  she  tore  her  liair." 

rope. 

Glutton  {The).  Yitelius,  the  Eomaii 
emperor  (1  j-69),  reigned  from  January  4 
to  December  22,  A.d.  69. 

Gluttony.    {See  Apicius,  etc.) 

Gna'tho.  A  vain,  boastful  parasite  in 
the  Eituucli  of  Terence  (Greek,  guatliou, 
jaw,  meaning  "tongue-doughty"). 

Gnomes  (1  syl.),  according  to  the 
Eosicru'cian  system,  are  the  elemental 
spirits  of  earth,  and  the  guardians  of 
mines  and  quarries.  (Greek,  gnoma, 
knowledge,  meaning  the  knowing  ones, 
the  wise  ones.)     {Sec  Faikt,  Salamaij- 

DERS.) 

"The  four  elements  are  inhabited  by  spirits 
called  sylphs,  gnomes,  nymphs,  and  salamanders. 
The  gnomes,  or  demons  of  the  earth,  delight  in 
mischief  -,  but  the  sylphs,  whose  habitation  is  in 
air,  are  the  best  ciJuditioned  creatures  imagin- 
able."—Pope  ;  Pref.  Letter  to  the  Kajie  of  the  Lock. 


Gnostics.  The  hnoicers,  opposed  to 
belierers,  various  sects  in  the  first  ages 
of  Christianity,  who  tried  to  accommo- 
date Scripture  to  the  speculations  of 
P}i:hag'oras,  Plato,  and  other  ancient 
philosophers.  They  taught  that  know- 
ledge, rather  than  mere  faith,  is  the  true 
key  of  salvation.  In  the  Gnostic  creed 
Christ  is  esteemed  merely  as  an  eon,  or 
divine  attribute  personified,  hke  Mind, 
Trutli,  Logos,  Church,  etc.,  the  whole 
of  which  eons  made  up  this  divine  ple- 
roma  or  fulness.  Paul,  in  several  of  his 
epistles,  speaks  of  this  "  Fulness  (ple- 
roma)  of  God."  (Greek,  Gnos'ticos.) 
{See  Agnostics.) 

Go.     (Anglo-Saxon,  gdii,  ic  gd,  I  go.) 

Here's  a  go  or  Here's  a  pretti/  go. 
Here's  a  mess  or  awkward  state  of 
aifairs. 

It  is  no  go.  It  is  not  workable.  "  Ca 
ira''  in  the  French  Eevolutiou  (it  will 
go),  is  a  similar  j^hrase. 

{See  Geeat  Go,  and  Little  Go.) 

Go  {The).  All  the  go.  Quite  the 
fashion  ;  very  jiopular  ;  la  rogue. 

Go   along   with   You.    In  French, 

Tirez  de  lo»g,  said  to  dogs,  meaning 
scamper  oft",  run  away.  An  long  et  ait, 
large,  i.e.  entirely,  go  off  the  whole 
length  and  breadth  of  the  way  from  me 
to  infinite  space. 

V  "  To  go  along  with  some  one,"  ■with 
the  lower  classes,  means  to  take  a  ■walk 
with  someone  of  the  opposite  sex,  with 
a  view  of  matrimony  if  both  parties 
think  fit. 

Go-between  {A).  An  iuterposer ; 
one  who  inter^ioses  between  two  parties. 

Go-by.  To  give  one  the  go-hg.  To 
pass  ■without  notice,  to  leave  in  the 
lurch. 

Go  it  Blind.  Don't  stop  to  deliber- 
ate. In  the  game  called  "Poker,"  if 
a  player  chooses  to  "go  it  blind,"  he 
doubles  the  ante  before  looking  at  his 
cards.  If  the  other  players  refuse  to 
see  his  blind,  he  wins  the  ante. 

Go  it,  'Warwick !  A  street  cry 
during  the  Peninsular  War,  meaning, 
"  Go  it,  ye  crii^ples  !  "  The  W:ir wick- 
shire  militia,  stationed  at  Hull,  were 
more  than  ordinarily  licentious  and 
disorderly. 

Go  it,  you  Cripples!  Figlit  on, 
you  simpletons  ;  scold  awny,  j'ou  silly 
or  quarrelsome  ones.  A  cripijle  is  slang 
for  a  dullard  or  awk'ward  person. 


Go  of  Gin 


528 


God 


Go  of  Gin.  A  quartern.  In  the 
Queen's  Head,  Coveut  Garden,  spirits 
used  to  be  served  in  quarterns,  neat — 
water  ad  ItbitKJii.  (Comijare  Stieeup 
Cup.) 

Go  on  all  Fours.  Perfect  in  all 
points.  We  say  of  a  pun  or  riddle,  "  It 
does  not  go  on  all  fours,"  it  will  not 
hold  good  in  every  way.  Lord  Macau- 
lay  says,  "It  is  not  easy  to  make  a 
simile  go  on  all  fours."  Sir  Edward 
Coke  says,  "  Kit//iuii  siin'ile  qxat'iior 
ped'ib/is  cKrrif.'"  The  metaphor  is  taken 
from  a  horse,  which  is  lame  if  only  one 
of  its  legs  is  injured.  All  four  must  be 
souud  in  order  that  it  may  go. 

Go  Out  (To).  To  rise  in  rebellion  ; 
the  Irish  say,  "To  be  up."  To  go  out 
■with  the  forces  of  Charles  Edward.  To 
be  out  with  Roger  More  and  Sir  Phelim 
O'Neil,  in  1641. 

"I  tliocht  my  liost  chance  for  paj'mont  was 
e'en  to  gae  out,  uiist'lf."— .S'ic  II'.  ,S'cw«;  M  iirer/fj/, 

Go  through  Fire  and  Water  to 
serve  you.  Do  anything _even  at  per- 
sonal cost  and  inconvenience.  The  re- 
ference is  to  the  ancient  ordeals  by  fire 
and  water.  Those  condemned  to  these 
ordeals  might  employ  a  substitute. 

Go  to!  A  curtailed  oath.  "Go  to 
the  devil  !  "  or  some  such  jihi-ase. 

"  Ciissiiis  :  I  [am]  aliler  than  youi'self 
To  make  conilitions. 

Jirutus :  {in  to  !  You  are  not,  Cassius." 

Shakespeare  :  Julius  C(esar,  iv.  3. 
Co  TO  Ban-ff,  nndboltlc  skatc\ 
Go  TO  Batfi.  and  L'.t  yipur  licail  shaved. 
Go  TO  BrMiAV.aml  u-rl  your  bicci-lR's  mended. 
Go  TO  CovENTUY.    JNIa kc  yourscl f  Scan*. 
Go  TO  Hf..\iiam.    a  kind  of  Alsatia  ur  sanctuary 

in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 
Go  TO  Jeruiio.   Out  of  the  way.  (.^ce  jEniCHO.) 
And  many  other  similar  phrases. 

Go  to  the  Wall  (To).  To  be  pushed 
on  one  side,  laid  on  the  shelf,  passed  by. 
Bu.siness  men,  and  those  in  a  hurry, 
leave  the  wall-side  of  a  pavement  to 
women,  children,  and  loungers. 

Go  without  Saying   {To).     Cela  va 
'     scn/s  dire.      To  be  a  self-evident  fact; 
well  understood  or  iudisiiutable. 

•     _   Goat.      Usually   placed   under  seats 
1     in  church  stalls,  etc. ,  as  a  mark  of  dis- 
honour and    abhorrence,   especially    to 
ecclesiastics  who  are  bound  by  the  law  of 
continence. 

T/ie  seven  little  goafs.  So  the  Pleiades 
are  vulgarly  called  in  Spain. 

Goat  and  Compasses.  A  public - 
house  sign  in  the  Commonwealth  ;  a  cor- 
ruption of  "  God  en-compasses  [us]." 

*.*  Some  say  it  is  the  carpenters'  arms 
—  three   goats   and   a   chevron.      The 


chevron   being  mistaken  for  a  jiair  of 
compasses. 

Goats.  (Anglo-Saxon,  rjdt.) 
The  three  (joats.  A  public-house  sign 
at  Lincoln,  is  a  corruption  of  the  Three 
Uoiits,  that  is,  drains  or  sluices,  which 
at  one  time  conducted  the  waters  of  a 
large  lake  into  the  river  Witham.  The 
name  of  the  inn  is  now  the  Black 
Goats. 

Gobbler  {A).  A  turkey-cock  is  so 
called  from  its  cry. 

Gob'bo  {Lauuedot).  A  clown  ia 
Shakesjjcare's  Merchant  of  Venice. 

Gob'elin  Tapestry.  So  called  from 
Giles  (job'elin,  a  French  dyer  in  the 
reign  of  Fran(;ois  I.,  who  discovered  the 
Gobelin  scarlet.  His  house  in  the 
suburbs  of  St.  Marcel,  in  Paris,  is  still 
called  the  Gobelins. 

Goblin.  A  familiar  demon.  Accord- 
ing to  popular  belief  goblins  dwelt  iu 
private  houses  and  chinks  of  trees.  As  a 
specimen  of  forced  etymology,  it  may  be 
mentioned  that  Elf  and  Goblin  have 
been  derived  from  Guelph  andGhibelline. 
{Yreuch.,  gobelin,  a  lubber-heud;  Armoric 
(johiiUn  ;  German  holold,  the  demon  of 
mines  ;  Greek,  kohalos  ;  Russian,  eolj)/  ; 
Welsh  cobhj)),  a  "  knocker  ;  "  whence  the 
woodjiecker  is  called  in  Welsh  "  coblijn 
y  coed.'')     (-SVe  Faiey.) 

Goblin  Cave.  In  Celtic  called  "  Coir 
nan  I'riskin''''  (core  of  the  satyrs),  in 
Bcnveuue,  Scotland. 

"  After  landing  on  the  skirts  of  Benvenue,  we 
reach  tlie  cave  or  cove  of  the  ffohlins  by  a  steep 
and  narrow  deHle  of  one  hundred  yards  iu  length. 
It  is  a  deep  circular  ampliiilioatri^  of  at  least  six 
hundred  yards'  extent  in  its  uiiier  diameter,  gra- 
dually narrowing  towards  tlic  base,  hemmed  in 
all  round  liy  steep  and  towering  rocks,  and  ren- 
dered impenetrable  to  tbe  rays  of  the  sun  by  a 
close  co\ert  of  luxuriant  trees.  On  the  south 
ami  west  it  is  bounded  by  the  precipitous 
shoulder  of  Benvenue,  to  the  heii-'ht  of  at  least 
5(X)  feet  ;  towards  the  east  the  rock  appears  at 
some  former  period  to  have  tun])>led  down,  strew- 
ing the  white  course  of  its  fall  with  immense 
fragments,  which  now  serve  only  to  give  shelter 
to  foxes,  wild  cats,  and  badgers.'— i^r.  Gruliam. 

Goblins.  In  Cardiganshire  the  miners 
attribute  those  strange  noises  heard  in 
mines  to  sinrits  called  "Knockers" 
(goblins).     (^Sec  above.) 

God.  Gothic,  yofh  (god) ;  Geiinau, 
(joft.  {See  Alla,  Adonist,  Elohistic, 
etc.) 

It  was  Hiero,  Tyrant  of  Syracuse,  who 
asked  Simonides  the  poet,  "What  ia 
God  ?  "  Simonides  asked  to  have  a  day 
to  consider  the  question.  Being  asked 
the  same  question    the    next    day,   he 


God 


529 


Gods 


desired  two  more  days  for  reflection. 
Every  time  he  appeared  before  Hiero  he 
doubled  the  leugth  of  time  for  the  con- 
sideration of  his  answer.  Hiero,  greatly 
astonished,  asked  the  philosopher  why 
he  did  so,  and  Simonides  made  answer, 
"  The  longer  I  think  on  the  subject,  the 
farther  I  seem  from  making  it  out." 

It  was  Voltaire  who  said,  "  'Si  Dlen 
n^existait pas,  il faudrait  rhireittcr." 

God  and  the  saints.  ^'  II  raux  mieux 
s''adresscr  (i  iJleu  qii'd  ses  saints.^'  "II 
rant  inicxx  sc  tcnir  an  tronc  qn^a/x 
branches.''''  Better  go  to  the  master 
than  to  his  steward  or  foreman. 

God  bless  the  U/ikc  of  Argijk.  It  is 
said  that  the  Duke  of  Argyle  erected  a 
row  of  posts  to  mark  his  property,  and 
these  posts  were  used  by  the  cattle  to  rub 
against.      {Rotten  :    tSiniii/  Uictionar;/.) 

God  helps  those  icho  help  themselves.  In 
French,  '■'■  Aide-toi,  le  ciel  faidera.'"  "A 
toile  ourd'ie D'leu  donne  lefil'"'  (You  make 
the  warp  and  God  will  make  the  woof). 

God  made  the  country,  and  man  made 
the  town.  Cowper  in  The  Task  (The 
Sofa).  Varro  says  in  his  I)e  lie  llnstica, 
*'' U'lVlna  Xatttra  aijros  ded'it ;  Ars  hn- 
mana  (edijicavit  urbes.^'' 

'■'■God  save  the  kinr/.'"  It  is  said  by 
some  that  both  the  words  and  music  of 
this  anthem  were  composed  by  Dr.  John 
Bull  (1.563-1622),  organist  at  Antwerp 
cathedral,  where  the  original  MS.  is  still 
preserved.  Others  attribute  them  to 
Henry  Carey,  author  of  Sail;/  in  our 
Alleij.  The  words,  "  Send  him  vic- 
torious," etc.,  look  like  a  Jacobin  song, 
and  Sir  John  Sinclair  tells  us  he  saw 
that  verse  cut  in  an  old  glass  tankard, 
the  property  of  P.  Murray  Threipland, 
of  Fingask  Castle,  whose  predecessors 
were  staunch  Jacobites. 

No  doubt  the  words  of  the  anthem 
have  often  been  altered.  The  air  and 
words  were  jirobably  first  suggested  to 
John  Bull  by  the  Uoininc  Salviim  of  the 
Catholic  Church.  In  1605  the  lines, 
"Frustrate  their  knavish  tricks,"  etc., 
were  added  in  reference  to  Gunpowder 
Plot.  In  1715  some  Jacobin  added  the 
words,  "Scud  him  [the  Pretender]  vic- 
torious," etc.  And  in  17iO  Henry  Carey 
reset  both  words  and  music  for  the 
Mercers'  Company  on  the  birthday  of 
George  II. 

God  sides  with  the  strongest.  Julius 
Civiles.  Napoleon  I.  said,  "  Le  bon  Dieii 
est  toiijoars  dn  cote  des  gros  bataillons.'''' 
God  helps  those  that  help  themselves. 
The  fable  of  Hercules  and  the  Carter. 

God  tempers  the  tvind  to  the  shorn 
lamb.    Sterne  (Maria,  in  the  Sentimental 

31 


Journeg).  In  French,  "A  breb'is  tondu^ 
I)ien  lui  mesure  le  rent ;  "  "  Dieu  mesiire 
le  froid  a  la  brcbis  to)idae."  "  iJica 
donne  le  fro'id  selon  la  rohbe.^^  Sheep 
are  shorn  when  the  cold  north-east 
winds  have  given  way  to  milder 
weather. 

I'ajl  of  the  (/or?— inspired,  ma?nadic. 
(Latin,  I)ei pleiius.) 

Gods. 

Britons.  The  gods  of  the  ancient 
Britons.  Taramis  (the  father  of  the 
gods  and  master  of  thunder),  TeutatOs 
(patron  of  commerce  and  inventor  of 
letters),  Esus  (god  of  war),  Belinus 
(=  Apollo),  Ardeua  (goddess  of  forests), 
Belisarna  (the  queen  of  heaven  and  the 
moon). 

CAETHAGixrAU  GODS.  Urania  and 
Moloch.  The  foimer  was  implored 
when  rain  was  required. 

"M.'^ti  ipsa  \  ii-Ro  [Unuiia]  coelestis  iiluvuniiu 
pollicitatrix."— :(V)-(i(/ii(Mj. 

V  Moloch  was  the  Latin  Saturn,  to 
whom  human  sacrifices  were  offered. 
Hence  Saturn  was  said  to  devour  his  own 
children. 

Chaldeans.  TIte  seven  gods  of 
the  Chaldeans.  The  gods  of  the  seven 
planets  called  in  the  Latin  language 
Saturn,  Jupiter,  Mars,  Apollo  [^i.e.  the 
Sun],  Mercur}',  Venus,  and  Diana  [i.e. 
the  Moon]. 

Egyptian  gods.  The  two  chief 
deities  were  Osiris  and  Isis  (supjjosed  to 
be  sun  and  moon).  Of  inferior  god.?, 
storks,  apes,  cats,  the  hawk,  and  some 
20,000  other  things  had  their  temples, 
or  at  least  received  religious  honours. 
Thebes  worshipped  a  ram,  Memjjhis  the 
ox  [Apis],  Bubastis  a  cat,  Momemphis 
a  cow,  the  Mendesians  a  he-goat,  the 
Hermopolitans  a  fish  called  "Latus," 
the  Paprimas  the  hippopotamus,  the 
Lycopolitans  the  wolf.  The  ibis  was 
deified  because  it  fed  on  serpents,  the 
crocodile  out  of  terror,  the  ichneiunou 
because  it  fed  on  crocodiles'  eggs. 

Eteuscans.  Their  nine  gods. 
Juno,  Minerva,  and  Tin'ia  (the  three 
chief)  ;  to  which  add  Vulcan,  Mars, 
Saturn,  Hercules,  Summa'nus,  and  Ve- 
dius.     (See  Aesie.) 

"  Lars  Porseiia  of  CUisiiini, 
By  tlie  nine  guds  be  swore 
Tliat  the  great  house  of  Taninin 
Sliiiuld  siiifor  wrong  no  more. 
By  the  nine  gods  bo  swore  it. 
And  named  a  trysting  day." 

Mdcuithiy  :  Horotiiis,  stanza  1. 

Gatjl.  The  gods  of  the  Gauls  were 
Esus  and  Teutates  (called  in  Latiu  Mars 
and  Mercury).  Lucan  adds  a  third 
named  Taranes  (Jupiter).     Ctesar  says 


Gods 


530 


Godfrey's  Cordial 


they  worshipped  Mercury,  Apollo,  INIars, 
Jupiter,  and  Minerva.  The  last  was  the 
iuventor  of  all  the  arts,  and  presided 
over  roads  and  commerce. 

Geeek  and  Roman  gods  were  di- 
vided into  Di'i  JlcJOres  and Dii  Mitwre^. 
Tlie  Dii  Ma j  ores  were  twelve  in  number, 
thus  summed  by  Ennius — 
Jiino,  Vesta,  llinciva,  Ceie3,  Diaup.,  Venus.  JIais, 
ilercuiius,  Ji5vl,  Neiitmuis,  Vuloanus,  Apnllo. 

Tlieir  lilood  was  ii-li'ir.  tlioir  food  was  umhrn.-tia, 
tlu'ir  drink  nectar.  They  iiiai  ricd  and  liad  chil- 
dren, liveil  (111  Olymims  in  Tlie^saly,  in  liiMzen 
liimses  Iniill  Ipy  Vnliaii,  and  wore  golden  shoes 
which  enabled  them  to  tread  uii  air  or  water. 

T/ie  twelve  great  deities,  aecordiiifi  to 
Eitiiius  leere  {six  male  and  si.cfciuale)  : 

L.\TIN.  <4llKKK. 

JiTPiTKii  (Kin /)  Zeis  (l  syl.). 

Al'iillo  ^tlie  sun)  ApollOn. 

Marsdnir)  Ave.?. 

Jlercury  ()»cs,-.c'if/fr)  Heniie5. 

Nciituiip  loi-r<ni)  I'oseidon  (.T  syl.). 

A'ulean  (sniilli)  Hephaistos  (.3 sy" 

Jcso  (Qiiccii)  Heua.  ; 

Verei  i.<ilU((ic)  Dcnicier. 

Diana  Oi'ixm.  Iiiinthiy')  Artemis. 

Minerva  (H-i.s(/,i)/i).  Athena. 

A'eniis  iiorc  (iiitt  liiMuhi)  Aphrodite. 

Vesta  Oiomc-lifi)  licsira. 

V  Juno  was  the  wife  of  .lupiter,  Hera  of  Zeus  • 

Venus  was  the  wife  of  Vulcau,  AphrodUe  of 
Hephaistos. 

Tour  other  deities  are  often  referred  to  : 

Bacchus  (wine)  Dionysos. 

Cupid  (the  lail  I. ore)  Kros. 

Pluto  (of  the  lii/cnw)  riuto.i. 

Saturn  (time)  Kroiios. 

'"."  Of  these,  Proserpine  (Latin)  and  Persopbdie 
(fireek)  was  the  wife  of  Pluto,  Cyliele  was  the 
Wife  of  Saturn,  and  llhea  of  Kronos. 

?  In  Hesiod's  time  the  number  of 
gods  was  thirty  thousand,  and  that  none 
might  be  omitted  the  Greeks  observed 
a  feast  called  StoffVia,  or  Feast  of  the 
Unknown  Gods.  We  have  an  All  Saints' 
day. 

Tp'is  yap  fxvpioL  eltrlv  inC  x^Of  TrouXu^oTeiprj 
^ABauaTOt.  Zrjrbs,  <jjv\aK€^    /jLepoTTtoe  ai'6pio77wv. 
Ileslod,  i.  L'do. 

"  Some  thirty  tltousand  prods  on  earth  we  tind 
Sulijects  of  Zeus,  and  guardians  of  mankind." 

Persian  gods.  The  chief  god  was 
Mithra.  Inferior  to  him  were  the  two 
gods  Oromasdes  and  Tremanius.  The 
former  was  supposed  to  be  the  author  of 
all  the  evils  of  the  earth. 

Saxon  gods.  Odin  or  Woden  (the 
father  of  the  gods),  to  whom  Wednes- 
day is  consecrated;  Frea  (the  mother 
of  the  gods),  to  whom  Fri-day  is  con- 
secrated ;  Hertha  (the  earth)  ;  Tuesco, 
to  whom  Tues-day  is  consecrated  ;  Thor, 
to  whom  Thurs-day  is  consecrated. 

Scandinavian  gods.  The  supreme  gods 
of  the  Scandinavians  were  the  Mj'steri- 
ous  Three,  called  Har  (the  mighty),  the 
Like  Mighty,  and  the  Third  Person, 
who  sat  on  three  thrones  above  the 
Bainbow.      Then   came   the   ^sir,    of 


which  Odin  was  the  chief,  who  lived 
in  Asgard,  on  the  heavenly  hills,  between 
the  Earth  and  the  Rainbow.  Next  camo 
the  A^anir',  or  genii  of  wtiter,  air,  and 
clouds,  of  which  Niiird  was  chief. 

Gods  and  goddesses.  (See  Deities, 
Fairies.) 

Gods. 

million;/  the  f/ods.  In  the  uppermost 
gallery  of  a  theatre,  which  is  near  the 
ceiling,  generally  iiainted  to  resemble 
the  sky.  The  Fi-ench  call  tliis  celestial 
region  paradis. 

Jhad  (jods.  The  sepulchre  of  Jupiter 
is  in  Candia.  Esculapius  was  killed 
with  an  arrow.  The  ashes  of  Yenu.s  are 
shown  in  Paphos.  Hercules  was  burnt 
to  death.     {Igiiatiits.) 

Trijde  gods.     (See  Trinity.) 

God's  Acre.  A  churchyard  or  ceme- 
tery. 

"  1  like  that  aur-ient  Saxon  plira'O.  which  calls 
The  hurial  vr.iiind  tiod's  .Vcre."— y-<)i(r//(7/(«". 

Gods'  Secretaries  (77(f).  The  three 
Parctu.  One  dictates  the  decrees  of  the 
gods ;  another  writes  them  dtiwn  ;  and 
the  third  sees  that  thej'  are  carried  out. 
(Martiaiiiis  Vapella.     5th  century.) 

God-child.  One  for  whom  a  person 
stuuds  sponsor  in  baptism,  A  godson  or 
a  goddaughter. 

Goddess  Mothers  {The).  "\Miat  the 
French  call  " /wiDies  denies''''  or  " /^ s 
dames  blaiir/ies,'"  the  prototj-pe  of  the 
fays  ;  generally  represented  as  nurs-ing 
infants  on  their  laps.  Some  of  these 
statues  made  by  the  Gauls  or  Gallo- 
Romans  are  called  "  Black  Virgins." 

Godfather.  To  stand  godfather.  To 
pay  the  reckoning,  godfathers  being 
generally  chosen  for  the  sake  of  the 
present  they  are  expected  to  make  the 
child  at  the  chiistening  or  in  their  wills. 

Godfathers.  Jiuymeu,  who  are  the 
sponsors  of  the  criminal. 

"  In  christening  time  thou  Shalt  bave  two  god- 
fathers. Had  I  lieen  judge,  thou  shouldst  have 
had  ten  more  to  bring  thee  to  the  gallows,  not  to 
the  iuut:'— Shakespeare :  Merchant  of  Veniee,  iv.  1. 

God'frey.  The  Agamemnon  of 
Tasso's  Jerusalem  Delivered,  chosen  by 
God  as  chief  of  the  Crusaders.  He  is 
represented  as  calm,  circumspect,  and 
prudent ;  a  despiser  of  "worldly  empire, 
wealth,  and  fame." 

Godfrey's  Cordial.  A  patent  medi- 
cine given  to  children  troubled  Avith 
colic.  Gray  says  it  was  used  by  the 
lower  orders  to  "prevent  the  crying  of 
children    in    pain "   when  in  want    of 


Godiva 


531 


Gojam. 


proper  nourishment.  It  consists  of  sas- 
safras, opiixm  in  some  form,  brandy  or 
rectified  spirit,  caraway  seed,  and  treacle. 
There  are  seven  or  eight  different  pre- 
parations. Named  after  Thomas  Godfrey 
of  Hunsdon,  in  Hertfordshire,  in  the 
first  quarter  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

Godi'va  {LmhJ) .  Patroness  of  Covoi- 
try.  In  1040,  Leofric,  Earl  of  Mercia 
and  Lord  of  Coventry,  imposed  certain 
exactions  on  his  tenants,  which  his  lady 
besought  liim  to  remove.  To  escape 
her  imiDortuuity,  he  said  he  would  do  so 
if  she  ■would  ride  naked  through  the 
town.  Lady  Godiva  took  him  at  his 
word,  and  the  Earl  faithfully  kept  his 
promise. 

The  legend  asserts  that  every  inhabit- 
ant of  Coventry  kept  indoors  at  tlie 
time,  but  a  certain  ttiilor  peeped  through 
his  window  to  see  the  lady  imss.  Some 
say  he  was  sti'uck  blind,  others  that  his 
eyes  were  put  out  by  the  indignant 
townsfolk,  and  some  that  he  was  ^jut  to 
death.  Be  this  as  it  may,  he  has  ever 
since  been  called  "  Peeping  Tom  of 
Coventry."  Tennyson  has  a  poem  on 
the  subject. 

V  The  privilege  of  cutting  wood  in 
the  Herduoles,  by  the  parishioners  of  St. 
Briavel's  Castle,  in  Gloucestershii-e,  is 
said  to  have  been  gi'anted  by  the  Earl  of 
Hereford  (lord  of  Dean  Forest)  on  pre- 
cisely the  same  terms  as  those  accepted 
by  Lady  Godiva. 

"  Peeping  Tom  "  is  an  interpolation 
not  anterior  to  the  reign  of  Charles  II., 
if  we  may  place  any  faith  in  the  figure 
in  Smithfield  Street,  which  represents 
him  in  a  flowing  wig  and  Stuart  cravat. 

Godless  Florin  (The).  Also  called 
"The  Graceless  Florin."  In  1819  w-ere 
issued  florins  in  Great  Britain,  with  no 
legend  except  "  Victoria  Eegina."  Both 
F.D.  (Defender  of  the  Faith)  and  D.G. 
(by  God's  Grace)  were  omitted  for  want 
of  room.  From  the  omission  of  '  ■  Fidei 
Defensor"  they  were  called  Godless 
florins,  and  from  the  omission  of  ' '  Dei 
Gratia"  they  were  called  Graceless 
florins. 

V  These  florins  (2s.)  were  issued  by 
Shell,  Master  of  the  Mint,  and  as  he  was 
a  Catholic,  so  great  an  outcry  was  made 
against  them  that  they  were  called  in 
the  same  year. 

Godliness.  ClcnnUness  next  to  god- 
liness, "as  Matthew  Henry  says." 
Whether  Matthew  Henry  used  the  pro- 
verb as  well  known,  or  invented  it,  de- 
ponent sayeth  not. 


Godmer.  A  British  giant,  son  of 
Albion,  slain  by  Canu'rus,  one  of  the 
companions  of  Brute. 

'•  Those  thrciMncinstroiis  stnncs  .  .  . 
"Wliich  lliat  Imt-'f  son  c.f  hiilci.iis  AlbioTi. 
V,rc:a  (iciiliner,  llirru'  in  flcrcf  i-i.ni. m  ...ii 
j\t  liulil  Cauiitiis;  1ml  ip£  liini  w.is  shun." 

iSpenscr :  Faerie  (jtiecHC,  ii.  1m. 

Goel.  The  avenger  of  blood,  so  called 
by  the  Jews. 

Goe'mot  or  Goem  agot.  The  giant 
who  dominated  over  the  western  horn 
of  England,  slain  by  Coiiu'eus,  one  of 
the  companions  of  Brute.  {Geoff'iY)/  : 
Chnjiiichs,\.  IG.)     (.SV<;  CoEiNEUS.) 

Gog  and  Magog.  The  Emperor 
Diocle'tian  had  thirty-three  infamous 
daughters,  who  murdered  their  husbands ; 
and,  being  set  adrift  in  a  ship,  reached 
Albion,  where  they  fell  in  w-ith  a  num- 
ber of  demons.  The  offspring  of  this 
unnatural  alliance  was  a  race  of  giants, 
afterwards  extu-pated  by  Brute  and  his 
comi^anions,  refugees  from  Troy.  Gog 
and  Magog,  the  last  two  of  the  giant 
race,  were  brought  in  chains  to  London, 
then  called  Troy-novant,  and,  being 
chained  to  the  palace  of  Brute,  which 
stood  on  the  site  of  our  Guildhall,  did 
duty  as  porters.  We  cannot  pledge  oiu'- 
selves  to  the  truth  of  old  Caxton's  narra- 
tive ;  but  we  are  quite  certain  that  Gog 
and  Magog  had  their  effigies  at  Guild- 
hall in  the  reign  of  Henry  V.  The  old 
giants  were  destroyed  in  the  Great  Fire, 
and  the  present  ones,  fourteen  feet 
high,  were  carved  in  1708  by  Kichard 
Saunders. 

CLiildreu  used  to  lie  told  (as  a  very  mild  iDkol 
tliat  wben  these  giants  hear  St.  Paul'-s  clock: 
strike  twelve,  they  descend  from  their  pedestals 
and  go  iuto  the  Hall  for  dinner. 

Gog'gles.  A  con'uption  of  ogles,  eye- 
shades.  (Danish,  oog,  an  eye  ;  Spanish, 
ojo ;  or  from  the  Welsh,  f/ogelii,  to 
shelter.) 

Gogmagog  Hill  {The).  The  higher 
of  two  hills,  some  three  miles  south-cast 
of  Cambridge.  The  legend  is  that  Gog- 
magog was  a  huge  giant  wlio  fell  in  love 
with  the  njTnph  Granta,  but  the  saucy 
lady  would  have  nothing  to  say  to  the 
big  bulk,  afterwards  metamorphosed 
into  the  hill  which  bears  his  name. 
{Drcnjton  :  I'olyolbio)),  xxi.) 

Go'jam.  A  province  of  Aby.=?inia 
(Africa).  Cajitain  Speke  traced  it  to 
Lake  Victoria  Nyanza,  near  the  Moun- 
tains of  the  Moon  (1861). 

"  The  swelling  Nile. 
From  his  two  siirings  in  Gojam's  sunny  realm,  ' 
Pure-welliug  out."  Thomson:  Sumtner. 


Golconda 


532 


Golden  Ass 


Golcon'da,  in  Hindustan,  famous  for 
its  diamond  mines. 

Gold.  By  the  ancient  alclicmists, 
gold  represented  the  sun,  and  silver  the 
moon.  In  heraldry,  gold  is  expressed 
by  dots. 

All  he  touches  inrns  to  gold.     It  is  said 

of    Midas    that    whatever    he    touched 

turned  to  gold.     {See  Eainbow.  ) 

"  In  maiiu  illiua  iihuiibiuii  aurum  Hobat."— Peiro- 
nhis. 

Gold.  All  that  glitters  is  not  gold. 
[Shakespeare :  Merchant  of  Venice,  ii.  7.) 

"  All  tliiiiff  which  that  schinetb  as  the  gold 
Is  nought  gold." 

Chaucer:  Canterhwy  TaifS,  12,800. 
"  Non   teiieas   aurum   totuni   quod   splendet   ut 
aurum 
Kec  i-iulchruiu  immum  quodlibet  esse  bonnm." 
Ata'iius  dt  Jn'sulis  :  J'anib'ulw. 

Ife  has  got  the  gold  of  Tolo'sa.  His  ill 
gains  will  never  prosj^er.  Cfejjio,  the 
Roman  consul,  in  his  march  to  Gallia 
Narbonensis,  stole  from  Tolo'sa  (Tou- 
louse) the  gold  and  silver  consecrated 
by  the  Cimbriau  Druids  to  their  gods. 
When  he  encountered  the  Cimbrians 
both  he  and  Mallius,  his  brother-consul, 
were  defeated,  and  112.000  of  their 
men  were  left  upon  the  field  (B.C.  106). 

The  gold  of  Xihelungcii.  Brought  ill- 
luck  to  every  one  who  jDossessed  it. 
{Icelandic  Edda.)     {See  Fatal  Gifts.) 

Mamihehii  gold.  A  sort  of  pinch- 
beck, made  of  copper  and  zinc,  invented 
at  Mannheim,  in  Germanj'. 

3Iosa'ic  gold  is  '■^  aiirum  miisl'viiDi,"^  a 
bi-sulphuret  of  tin  used  by  the  ancients 
in  tesselating.     (French,  nwsaique.) 

Gold  Purse  of  Spain.  Andalusia 
is  so  called  because  it  is  the  city  from 
which  Spain  derives  its  chief  wealth. 

Golden.  The  Golden  ("  Aura'tus"). 
So  Jean  Dorat,  one  of  the  Pleiad  poets 
of  France,  was  called  by  a  pun  on  his 
name.  This  pun  may  perhaps  pass 
muster ;  not  so  the  preposterous  title 
given  to  him  of  "The  French  Pindar." 
(1507-1588.) 

Golden-tongued  (Greek,  Chrysologos). 
So  St.  Peter,  Bishop  of  Ravenna,  was 
called.     (433-450.) 

_  The  golden  section  of  a  line.  Its  divi- 
sion into  two  such  parts  that  the  rect- 
angle contained  by  the  smaller  segment 
and  the  whole  line  equals  the  square  on 
the  larger  segment.     {Euclid,  ii.  11.) 

Golden  Age.  The  best  age ;  as  the 
golden  age  of  innocence,  the  golden  age 
of  literature.  Chronologers  divide  the 
time  between  Creation  and  the  birth  of 
Christ  into  ages ;  Hesiod  describes  five. 


and  Lord  Bj'ron  adds  a  sixth,  "  The  Age 
of  Bronze."     {See  Age,  Augustan.) 
i.  2'he  Golden  Age  of  Ancient  Nations  : 

(1)  New  Assyrian  Empire.  From 
the  reign  of  Esar-haddon  or  Assur  Adou 
{Assgria''s  prince),  third  son  of  Sennach'- 
erib,  to  the  end  of  Sarac's  reign  (b.c. 
691-(J06). 

(2)  CiiALDiEO  -  Babylonian  Empire. 
From  the  reign  of  Nabopolassar  orNebo- 
pul-Asstir  {Xcbo  the  great  Assyrian)  to 
that  of  Belshazzar  or  Bel-shah-Assur 
{Bel  kinr/-ofAss)/ria)  (B.C.  GOG-538). 

(3)  China,  the  Tang  dynasty  (f)2G- 
684),  and  especially  the  rcigu  of  Tae- 
tsoug  (618-626). 

(4)  Egypt.  The  reigns  of  Sethos  I. 
and  Eam'eses  II.  (b.c.  1336-1224). 

(5)  Media.  The  reign  of  Cyax'arcs 
orKai-ax-Ares(^//(!'-/ii^'y  son-of"  JIars") 
(B.C.  634-594). 

(6)  Persia.  The  reigns  of  Khosru  I., 
and  II.  (531-628). 

ii.  The  Golden  Age  of  Modern  Xations. 

(1)  England,  the  reign  of  Elizabeth 
(1558-1603). 

(2)  France.  Part  of  the  reigns  of 
Louis  XIV.  and  XV.  (1640-1740). 

(3)  Germany.  The  reign  of  Charles 
V.  (1519-1558). 

(4)  Portugal.  From  John  I.  to  the 
close  of  Sebastian's  reign  (1383-1578). 
In  1580  the  crown  was  seized  by  Felipe 
II.  of  Spain. 

(5)  Prussia.  The  reign  of  Frederick 
the  Great  (1740-1786). 

(6)  Russia.  The  reign  of  Czar  Peter 
the  Great  (1672-1725). 

(7)  Spain.  The  reign  of  Ferdinand 
and  Isabella,  when  the  crowns  of  Castile 
and  Aragon  were  united  (1474-1516). 

(8)  Sweden.  From  Gustavus  Vasa  to 
the  close  of  the  reign  of  Gustavus  Adol- 
phus  (1523-1632). 

Golden  Apple.  "  What  female  heart 
can  gold  despise.'  "  (Gray).  In  allusion  to 
the  fable  of  Atalanta,  the  swiftest  of  all 
mortals.  She  vowed  to  marry  only  that 
man  who  could  outstrii)  her  in  a  race. 
Milan'ion  threw  down  three  golden 
apples,  and  Atalanta,  stopping  to  jiick 
them  uj),  lost  the  race. 

Golden  Ass.  The  romance  of  Apu- 
le'ius,  written  in  the  second  century, 
and  called  the  golden  because  of  its  ex- 
cellency. It  contains  the  adventures  of 
Lucian,  a  young  man  who,  being  acci- 
dentally metamorjihosed  into  an  ass 
while  sojourning  in  Thessaly,  fell  into 
the  hands  of  robbers,  eunuchs,  magis- 
trates, and  so  on,  by  whom  he  was  ill- 
treated  ;  but  ultimately  he  recovered  lAs, 


Golden  Ball 


533 


Golden  Housd 


human  form.  Boccaccio  has  horrowed 
largely  from  this  admirable  romance ; 
and  the  incidents  of  tlie  robbers'  cave  in 
Gil  Bias  are  taken  from  it. 

Golden  Ball  (TV/r).  Ball  Hughes, 
one  of  the  dandies  in  the  days  of  the 
Regency.  He  paid  some  fabulous  i^rices 
for  his  dressing  cases  (flourished  1820- 
1830).     Ball  married  a  Spanish  dancer. 

He  shirked  a  duel, and  t his  pmlialily  pnimlarised 
the  imii  GuUleu  Ball,  Leaden  Ball,  Hughes  Ball. 

The  three  [/olden  balls.     {Sec  Balls.) 

Golden  Bay.  The  Bay  of  Kiesclarke 
is  so  called  because  the  sands  shine  like 
gold  or  tire.     {Hans  Striojs,  17th  cent.) 

Golden  Bonds.  Aureliau  allowed 
the  captive  queen  Zeuobia  to  have  a 
slave  to  hold  up  her  golden  fetters. 

Golden  Bowl  is  Broken  [The). 
Death  has  supervened. 

"Or  ever  the  silver  cnrd  he  loosed,  or  the 
golden  howl  he  hroken,  or  the  i)itclier  lie  liroken 
at  the  fountain,  or  the  wheel  broken  at  the  cis- 
tern. Then  shall  the  dust  return  to  the  earth  as 
it  was:  and  the  spirit  shall  return  uutu  Gud  who 
gave  it."— Ecclesiastes  xii.  e,  7. 
^  "  Reir.emher ;  thy   Creator  "  : 

before  the  silver  cord  of  health  is  loosed  hy 

sickness; 
before  the  golden  howl  of  manly  strength  has 

lieen  liroken  up; 
heforethe  iiiteher  or  body,  which  contains  the 

spirit,  has  been  broken  up; 
before  the  wheel  of  life  has  run  its  course, 
and  the  spirit  has  returned  toGod,whogaveit. 

Golden  Bull.  An  edict  by  the  Em- 
peror Charles  IV.,  issued  at  the  Diet  of 
Nuremberg  in  1356,  for  the  fiurpose  of 
fixing  how  the  GeiTnan  emperors  were 
to  be  elected.     {Sec  Bull.) 

Golden  Calf.  We  all  tcorship  the 
golden  calf.  i.e.  money.  The  reference 
is  to  the  golden  calf  made  by  Aaron 
when  Moses  was  absent  on  Mount  Sinai. 
(Exod.  xxxii.)  According  to  a  common 
local  tradition,  Aaron's  golden  calf  is 
buried  in  Rook's  Hill,  Lavant,  near 
Chichester. 

Golden  Cave.  Contained  a  cistern 
guarded  by  two  giants  and  two  centaurs ; 
the  waters  of  the  cistern  were  good  for 
quenching  the  fire  of  the  cave  ;  and  when 
this  fire  was  quenched  the  inhabitants  of 
Scobellum  would  return  to  their  native 
forms.     {The  Seven  Champions,  iii.  10.) 

Golden  Chain.  "Faith  is  the  golden 
chain  to  link  the  penitent  sinner  unto 
God''  (Jeremy  Taylor).  The  allusion  is 
to  a  passage  in  Homer's  Iliad  (i.  19-30), 
where  Zeus  says,  If  a  golden  chain  were 
let  down  from  heaven,  and  all  the  gods 
and  goddesses  pulled  at  one  end,  they 
would  not  be  able  to  pull  him  down  to 


earth  ;  whereas  he  could  lift  with  ease 
all  the  deities  and  all  created  things 
besides  with  his  single  might. 

Golden  Fleece.  Ino  persuaded  her 
husband,  Ath'amas,  that  his  sou  Phryxos 
was  the  cause  of  a  famine  which  deso- 
lated the  land,  and  the  old  dotard 
ordered  him  to  be  sacrificed  to  the  angry 
gods.  Phryxos  being  apprised  of  this 
ortler,  made  his  escape  over  sea  on  a 
ram  lehich  had  a  golden  fleece.  When  he 
arrived  at  Colchis,  he  sacrificed  the  ram 
to  Zeus,  and  gave  the  fleece  to  King 
iEe'tes,  who  hung  it  on  a  sacred  oak. 
It  was  afterwards  stolen  by  Jason  in  his 
celebrated  Argonautic  exijedition.  {See 
Aego.) 

"  Tin's  risinfj  Greece  with  indignation  viewed, 
And  youthful  Jason  an  atteiujit  conceived 
Lofty  and  liold  :  along  Pene'us'  banks. 
Around  Olympus"  brows,  the  Muses'  haunts. 
He  roused  the  brave  to  re-deniand  the  fleece." 
Dijcr  :  The  FUcce,  ii. 

Golden  fleece  of  the  north.  The  fur 
and  peltry  of  Siberia  is  so  called. 

"  Australia  has  been  called  "The 
Land  of  the  Golden  Fleece,"  because  of 
the  quantity  of  wool  i^roduced  there. 

Golden  Fleece.  An  order  of  knight- 
hood by  this  title  was  instituted  by 
Philip  III.,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  in  1429. 
The  selection  of  the  fleece  as  a  badge  is 
perhaps  best  explained  by  the  fact  that 
the  manufacture  of  wool  had  long  been 
the  staple  industry  of  the  Low  Countries, 
then  a  part  of  the  Burgundian  posses- 
sions. 

Golden  Fountain.  The  property  of 
a  wealthy  Jew  of  Jerusalem.  "In 
twenty-four  hours  it  would  convert  any 
metal  into  refined  gold  ;  stony  flints  into 
pure  silver  ;  and  any  kind  of  earth  into 
excellent  metal."  {The  Seven  CJiam- 
■pions  of  Christendom,  ii.  4.) 

Golden  Girdle.  Louis  VIII.  made 
an  edict  that  no  courtesan  should  be 
allowed  to  wear  a  golden  girdle,  under 
very  severe  penalty.  Hence  the  pro- 
verb. Bonne  renomme  rault  niiea.v  que 
ceintare  doree.     {See  Giedle.) 

Golden  Horn.  The  inlet  of  the 
Bosjihorus  on  which  Constantinople  is 
situated.  So  called  from  its  curved 
shape  and  great  beauty. 

Golden  House.  This  was  a  palace 
erected  by  Nero  in  Eome.  It  was  roofed 
with  golden  tiles,  and  the  inside  walls, 
which  were  profusely  gilt,  were  em- 
bellished with  mother-of-pearl  autl  pre- 
cious stones;  the  ceilings  were  inlaid 
with  ivory  and  gold.  The  banquet-hall 
had  a  rotatory  motion,  and  its  vaulted 


Golden  Legend 


■,u 


Golden  Town 


ceiling  showere(>l  flowers  and  perfumes 
on  the  guests.  The  Farne'se  popes  and 
princes  iised  the  materials  of  Nero's 
house  for  their  palaces  and  villas. 

Golden  Legend.  A  collection  of 
hagiology  {/ires  of  saiitffc)  made  hy 
Jaques  de  Voragiue  in  the  thirteenth 
century ;  valuable  for  the  picture  it 
gives  of  mediajval  manners,  customs, 
and  thought.  Jortin  says  that  the 
young  students  of  religious  houses,  for 
the  exercise  of  their  talents,  were  set  to 
accommodate  the  narratives  of  heathen 
wi'iters  to  Christiau  saints.  It  was  a 
collection  of  these  "lives"  that  Voragine 
made,  and  thought  deserving  to  be 
called  ' '  Legends  worth  their  Weight  in 
Gold."  Longfellow  has  a  dramatic 
poem  entitled  27ic  Golden  Legend. 

Golden  Mean.  Keep  the  golden 
mean.  The  wise  saw  of  Cleobu'los,  King 
of  Ehodes  (b.c.  C30-559). 

"  Distant  iVlike  from  eacb,  to  neitber  lean, 
But  ever  keep  the  happy  (Gulden  Mean." 

Howe :  The  Golden  Verses. 

Golden-mouthed.  Chrysostom;  so 
called  for  his  great  eloquence  (a.d.  347- 
407). 

Golden  Ointment.  Eye  salve.  In 
allusion  to  the  ancient  practice  of  rub- 
bing "slynas  of  the  eye"  with  a  gold 
ring  to  cure  them. 

"  1  liavc  a  .sty  hero,  Chilax, 

1  have  uo  gold  to  cure  it." 
r,caumont  and  Fletcher:  Mad  Lovers. 

Golden  Opinions.  "  I  have  bought 
■golden  opinions  of  all  sorts  of  people." 
{S/ieilcesjjeeire  :  Maebeth,  i.  7.) 

Golden  Palace.  {Sec  Golden 
House.) 

Golden  Rose.  A  cluster  of  roses 
and  rosebuds  growing  on  one  thoniy 
stem,  all  of  the  purest  gold,  chisellecl 
with  exquisite  workmanship.  In  its 
cup,  among  its  petals,  the  Pope,  at  every 
benediction  he  pronounces  upon  it, 
inserts  a  few  particles  of  amber  and 
musk.  It  is  blessed  on  the  fourth  Sim- 
day  in  Lent,  and  bestowed  dm-ing  the 
ecclesiastical  year  on  the  royal  lady 
whose  zeal  for  the  Church  has  most 
■shown  itself  by  pious  deeds  or  pious 
intentions.  The  prince  who  has  best 
deserved  of  the  Holy  See  has  the  blessed 
sword  and  cap  {lo  stoceo  e  il  herettd)  sent 
him.  If  uo  one  merits  the  gift  it  is  laid 
up  in  the  Vatican.  In  the  spring  of 
1868  the  Pope  gave  the  golden  rose  to 
Isabella  of  Spaiu,  in  reward  of  "her 
faith,  justice,  and  charity,"  and  to  "fore- 
token   the    protection    of    God    to    his 


well  -  beloved  daughter,  whose  high 
virtues  make  her  a  shining  hght  amongst 
woTuen."  The  Empress  Eugenie  of 
France  also  received  it. 

Golden  Rule. 

In   iiioraln—Do    unto   others    as    j'ou 
would  be  done  by.     Or  Matt.  vii.  V2. 
In  eiritlivietic — The  Rule  of  Tliree. 

Golden  Shoe  (.i).  A  jiot  of  money. 
"  Tlie  want  of  a  golden  slioe  "  is  the 
want  of  ready  cash.  It  seems  to  be  a 
superlative  of  a  "  silver  slipper,"  or  good 
luck  generally,  as  he  "walks  in  silver 
slippers." 

Golden  Shower  or  Shourr  of  yohl. 
A  bribe,  money.  The  allusion  is  to  tlie 
classic  tale  of  Jupiter  and  Dan'ae.  Ac- 
ris'ios,  King  of  Ai'gos,  beiug  told  that 
his  daughter's  son  would  jiut  him  to 
death,  resolved  that  Dan'ae  should  never 
marry,  and  accordingly  locked  her  up  in 
a  brazen  tower.  Jupiter,  who  was  in 
love  with  the  princess,  foiled  the  king 
by  changing  himself  into  a  shower  of 
gold,  under  which  guise  he  readily  found 
access  to  the  fair  prisoner. 

Golden  Slipper  {The),  in  Negro 
melodies,  like  "golden  streets,"  etc., 
symboUses  tlio  joys  of  the  land  of  the 
leal ;  and  to  wear  the  golden  slijiper 
means  to  enter  into  the  joys  of  Paradise. 

The  golden  shoes  or  slippers  of  Para- 
dise, according  to  Scandinavian  mytho- 
logy, enable  the  wearer  to  walk  on  air  or 
water. 

Golden  State.  California  ;  so  called 
from  its  gold  "diggins." 

Golden  Stream.  Joannes  Damas- 
ce'nus,  author  of  l)ogmat'tc  Theology 
(died  73G). 

Golden  '  Thigh.  Pythagoras  is  said 
to  have  had  a  golden  tliigh,  which  he 
showed  to  Abaris,  the  Hyjjerborean 
priest,  and  exhibited  in  the  Olj'mpic 
games.  Pelops,  we  are  told,  had  an 
ivory  shoulder.  Nuad  had  a  silver  liand 
{ace  Silver  Hand),  but  this  was  arti- 
ficial. 

Golden  Tooth.  A  Silesiau  child,  in 
1598,  we  are  told,  in  his  second  set  of 
teetli,  cut  "one  great  tooth  of  pure 
gold  ; "  but  Libavius,  chemist  of  Coburg, 
recommended  that  the  tooth  should  be 
seen  by  a  goldsmith  ;  and  the  goldsmith 
pronounced  it  to  be  "an  ordinary  tooth 
cleverly  covered  with  gold  leaf." 

Golden  Town  {The).  So  Mainz  or 
Mayence  was  called  ia  Carloviugian 
times. 


Golden  Valley 


>35 


Gonfanon 


Golden  Valley  {The).  The  eastern 
portion  of  Limerick  is  so  called,  from 
its  great  natural  fertility. 

Golden  Verses.  So  called  because 
they  are  "  good  as  gold."  They  are  Ly 
some  attributed  to  Epicar'mos,  and  by 
others  to  Emped'ocles,  but  always  go 
under  the  name  of  Pythag'oras,  and  seem 
quite  in  accordance  with  the  excellent 
precepts  of  that  philosoplier.  They  are 
as  follows  : — • 

Ne'er  suffer  sleep  tliine  eyes  to  close 

Before  thy  mind  liatli  run 
O'er  ex  ery  :ict,  and  tlioiiijUt,  aud  Word, 

From  dawn  to  set  nt  sun  ; 
For  wroiM.'  take  shame,  Ijiu.  crratctiil  feel 

If  just  tliy  course  hatli  Ipeen; 
Pm-li  effort  day  by  d;iy  renewed 
AVill  ward  thy  soul  from  sin.  E.  C.  B. 

Goldy.  The  pet  name  given  by  Dr. 
Johnson  to  Oliver  Goldsmith.  Garrick 
said  of  him,  "He  wrote  like  an  angel 
and  talked  like  poor  Poll."  (Bom  Nov. 
29,  17'28;  died  April  4,  177-1.) 

Gol'gotha  signifies  a  skull,  and  cor- 
responds to  the  French  word  chaumoiit. 
Probably  it  designated  a  bare  hill  or 
rising  ground,  having  some  fanciful  re- 
semblance to  the  form  of  a  bald  skull. 

"  Golgotha  seems  not  entirely  unconnected  witli 
tlie  hill  of  Gareb,  and  the  locality  of  Goatli,  men- 
tioned in  Jeremiah  xxxi.  30,  on  the  nortU-west  of 
the  city.  I  am  inclined  to  fix  the  place  wliere 
Jesus  was  crucilied  .  .  .  (m  the  mounds  which 
command  tiie  valley  of  Hinnom,  above  Birket- 
Mamila."— JftJirtii ;  L'ljc  of  Jesus,  chap.  xxv.  i 

Golgotha,  at  the  University  church, 
Cambridge,  was  the  gallery  in  whicli  the 
"  heads  of  the  houses  "  sat ;  so  called 
because  it  was  the  place  of  skulls  or 
heads.  It  has  been  more  Avittily  than 
truly  said  that  Golgotha  was  the  place 
of  empty  skulls. 

Goli'ath.  Tlie  Philistine  giant,  slain 
by  the  stripliug  David  with  a  small  stone 
hurled  from  a  sling.  (1  Sam.  xvii.  23- 
54.)    (*c  Giants.) 

Golosh'.  It  is  said  that  Henry  VI. 
wore  half -boots  laced  at  the  side,  and 
about  tlie  same  time  was  introduced  the 
shoe  or  clog  called  the  "galage"  or 
"  gologe,"  meaning  simply  a  covering; 
to  which  is  attributed  the  origin  of  our 
word  golosh.  This  cannot  bo  correct, 
as  Chaucer,  who  died  twenty  years  be- 
fore Henry  VI.  was  bom,  uses  the  word. 
The  word  comes  to  us  from  the  Spanish 
galocha  (wooden  shoes) ;  German, 
galosche. 

"  Ne  were  worthy  to  unbocle  his  Kaloche." 
,  Chaucer:  Squire's  Tale. 

Go'marists.  Opponents  of  Ar- 
min'ius.  So  called  from  Francis  Gomar, 
their  leader  (1563-1641). 


Gombeen  Man  {The).  Atallj-man; 
a  village  usurer  ;  a  money-lender.  The 
word  is  of  Irish  extraction. 

"Tlicy  supiiose  that  the  tenants  can  have  no 
other  supply  (if  capital  than  from  the  f-'ombcen 
\wxu"—Eijmunt  II  a  Ice :  Iree  Trade  in  Capital,  p. 

Gombo.  Pigeon  French,  or  French 
as  it  is  spoken  by  the  coloured  popula- 
tion of  Louisiana,  the  French  West 
Indies,  Bourbon,  and  Mauritius.  (Con- 
nected with  jiimbo.) 

"  Creole  is  almost  jiure  French,  not  much  more 
misprcniounced  than  in  some  parts  of  France;  liut 
Gombo  is  a  mere  plionetic  burlesiiue  of  French, 
interlarded  with  African  words,  and  other  words 
whicli  are  neither  African  nor  French,  Imt  prob- 
ably belong  to  the  aboriginal  language  of  tlie 
various  countries  to  winch  the  slaves  were 
broUL-'lit  from  Africa."— 27(e  NineteentU  Cmtury, 
Uctobcr,  18'JI,  p.  576. 

Gondola.    A  Venetian  boat. 

"Venice,  in  her  purple  prime  ....  when  the 
famous  law  was  passed  making  all  gondolas  black, 
that  the  nobles  should  not  squander  fortunes 
ui'on  them." — Curtis :  I'utipliar  I'apers,  i.  p.  31. 

Gone  'Coon  (A).     {See  'Coon.) 

Go'ne  to  the  Devil.  {See  luulcr 
Devil.) 

Gone  Up.  Put  out  of  the  way, 
hanged,  or  otherwise  got  rid  of.  In 
Denver  (America)  unruly  citizens  are 
summarily  hung  on  a  cotton  tree,  and 
when  any  question  is  asked  about  them 
the  answer  Ls  briefly  given,  "  Gone  up  " 
— i.e.  gone  up  the  cotton  tree,  or  sus- 
pended from  one  of  its  branches.  (See 
Xcir  America,  by  W.  Ilepworth  Dixon, 
i.  11.) 

Gon'eril.  One  of  Lear's  three  daugh- 
ters. Htiving  received  her  moiety  of 
Lear's  kingdom,  the  unnatural  daughter 
first  abridged  the  old  man's  retinue, 
then  gave  him  to  understand  that  his 
company  was  troublesome.  (Shake- 
speare :  King  Lear.) 

Gon'falon  or  Gonfanon.  An  ensign 
or  standard.  A  gonfalonier  is  a  magis- 
trate that  has  a  gonfalon.  (Italian, 
goiifalo'nc ;  French,  gonfalon;  Saxon, 
giiih-fana,  war-flag.)  Chaucer  uses  the 
word  gonfanon ;  Milton  prefers  gonfalon. 
Thus  he  says : — 

"  Ten  thousand  thousand  ensigns  high  advanced, 
Standards  and  g(Uifalons,  'twixt  van  and  rear 
Stream  in  the  air,  and  for  distinction  serve 
Of  hierarchies  [3  syl.],  of  orders,  and  degrees." 
Paradise  Lost,  v.  589. 

Gonfanon.  The  consecrated  banner 
of  the  Normans.  When  William  in- 
vaded England,  his  gonfanon  was  pre- 
sented to  him  by  the  Pope.  It  was 
made  of  purple  silk,  divided  at  the  end 
like  the  banner  attached  to  the  "  Cross 
of  the  Resui-rectiou."     When  Harold 


Gonin 


S36 


Good  Samaritan 


was  wouuded  in  the  eye,  he  was  borne 
to  the  foot  of  this  sacred  standard,  and 
the  English  rallied  round  him ;  but  liis 
death  gave  victory  to  tlie  invaders.  The 
lii;;li  altar  of  Battle  Abbey  mnrked  the 
spot  where  the  gonfauou  stood,  but  the 
only  traces  now  left  are  a  few  stones, 
recently  uncovered,  to  show  the  site  of 
this  memorable  place. 

Gonin.  ("ost  iiti  Maltrc  Gomn.  He 
is  a  sly  dog.  Maitre  Gonin  was  a 
famous  clown  in  the  sixteenth  ceuturj-. 
"  Vn  tour  dc  Mailre  (jonin"  means  a 
cunning    or    scurvy    trick.      {See  Ali- 

BORON.) 

Gonnclla's  Horse.  Gonnella,  the 
domestic  jester  of  the  Duke  of  Ferra'ra, 
rode  on  a  horse  all  skin  and  bone.  The 
jests  of  Gonnella  are  in  print. 

"  His  linrse  was  ns  lean  as  Gonnolla's,  ■\vliiili  fas 
the  nuke  saiii)  '  Ossn  atiiiie  iiellis  totiis  unit' 
triaiitusj."— C'cJi'iOid's;  Dvn  Quixule. 

Gonsal'ez  [Gon-zaUei/'].  Feruan 
Gonsalez  was  a  Spanish  hero  of,  the 
tenth  century,  whose  life  was  twice 
saved  by  his  wife  Sancha,  daugliter  of 
Garcias,  King  of  Navarre.  The  adven- 
tures of  Gonsal'ez  have  given  birth  to  a 
host  of  ballads. 

Gonville  College  (Cambridge).  The 
same  as  Cains  Collcyc,  founded  in  1348 
by  Edmond  Gonville,  son  of  Sir  Nicholas 
Gonville,  rector  of  Terrington,  Norfolk. 
{Sec  Caius  College.) 

Good.     The  Good. 

Alfonso  VIII.  (or  IX.)  of  Leon,  "  The 
Noble  and  Good."     (1158-1214.) 

Douglas  {The  good  Sir  James),  Bruco's 
friend,  died  1330. 

Jean  II.  of  France,  U  Bon.  (1319, 
13r30-13r)4.) 

Jean  III.,  Due  de  Bourgogne.  (1286, 
1312-1341.) 

Jean  of  Brittany,  "  The  Good  and 
Wise."     (1287,  1389-1442.) 

Philippe  III.,  Due  de  Bourgogne. 
(1396,  1419-1467.) 

Rene,  called  Tltc  Good  K'lnq  Bene, 
titular  King  of  Na'ples.     (1439-1452.) 

Richard  II.,  Due  de  Normandie.  (996- 
1026.) 

Richard  de  Beauchamp,  twelfth  Earl 
of  Warwick,  Regent  of  France.  (Died 
1439.) 

Good-bye.  A  contraction  of  God  be 
vith  )jou.  Similar  to  the  French  adieu, 
which  is  a  Dieit  (I  commend  you  to  God). 

"  Some  object  to  the  substitution  of 
"  God  "  in  this  phrase,  reminding  us  of 
our  common  phrases  good  daij,  c/ood 
night,     good    morning,     good    ei-cn'ing  ; 


"Good  be  with  ye"  would  mean  may 
you  fare  well,  or  good  abide  [with  3'ou], 

Good-Cheap.  The  French  /;o«  marche, 
a  good  bargain.  "  Cheap  "  here  means 
market  or  bargain,   (Anglo-Sa.xon,  ceap.) 

Good  Duke  Humphrey.  Hum- 
phrey I'lantagenet,  Duke  of  Gloucester, 
youngest  son  of  Henry  IV.,  said  to  liavo 
been  murdered  by  Suffolk  and  Cardinal 
Beaufort.  {ShaA-rspeare  :  'I  Jlej/n/  VI., 
iii.  2.) 

V  Called  "  Good,"  not  for  his  philan- 
thropy, but  from  his  devotion  to  the 
Church.   He  was  an  out-and-out  Catholic. 

Good  Folk  (Scotch  gidd  folk)  arc  like 
the  Shetland  laud-Trows,  who  inhabit 
the  interior  of  green  liills.     (Sec  Teows.) 

Good  Form,  Bad  Fornoi.  f'oinme  il 
faiit,  bun  ion  ;  iiiauvai.s  /on,  connne  il  nc 
faiit  pas.  Form  means  fasluon,  like  the 
Latin /or;«(r. 

Good  Friday.  The  anniversary  of 
the  Crucifixion.  "  Good  "  means  liolg. 
Probably  good  =  God,  as  in  the  2^1'i'aso 
"  (lood-bye"  {'j.r.). 

Horn  on  Good  Fridag.  According  to 
ancient  superstition,  those  born  on 
Christmas  Day  or  Good  Friday  have  the 
jiowcr  of  seeing  and  commanding  spirits. 

Good  Graces  {To  get  into  onc^s).  To 
lie  in  favour  with. 

"  TIa\  in«  continued  to  pret  into  tlie  good  graces 
(if  ilie  huxoni  wiU(jw. "—i»ic/,-oHs;  Pickwick,  cliap. 
xiv. 

Good  Hater  {A).  I  lore  a  good  hater. 
I  like  a  man  to  be  with  me  or  against 
me,  either  to  be  hot  or  cold.  Dr.  John- 
son called  Bathurst  the  pliysician  a 
"good  hater,"  because  he  hated  a  fool, 
and  he  hated  a  rogue,  and  he  hated  a 
Whig;  "he,"  said  the  Doctor,  "was  a 
very  good  hater." 

Good  Lady  {The).  The  mistress  of 
the  house.  "Your  good  lady,"  your 
wife.     {Sec  Goodman.) 

V  "My  good  woman"  is  a  depreca- 
tory address  to  an  inferior ;  but  "  Is 
your  good  woman  at  home  !r "  is  quite 
respectful,  meaning  your  wife  (of  the 
lower  grade  of  society) . 

Good  Neighbours.  So  the  Scotch 
call  the  Norse  drows. 

Good  Regent.  James  Stewart,  Earl 
of  Murray,  appointed  Regent  of  Scot- 
laud  after  the  imprisonment  of  Queen 
Mary, 

Good  Samaritan.  One  who  suc- 
cours the  distressed.    The  character  is 


Grood  Time 

from  our  Lord's  Parable  of  the  man 
who  fell  aiiiong  thieves  (St.  Luke  x. 
30-37). 

Good  Time.  There  is  a  gnod  time 
coming.  This  has  beeu  for  a  long,  loug 
time  a  familiar  saying  in  Scotland,  and 
is  introduced  by  Sir  Walter  Scott  in  his 
Jtob  Roy.  Charles  Mackay  has  written 
a  song  so  called,  set  to  music  by  Henry 
Russell. 

Good  Turn  {To  do  a).  To  do  a  kind- 
ness to  any  one. 

_  Good  and  All  (/"»;■).  Not  tenta- 
tively, not  in  jneteuce,  nor  yet  tem- 
porally, but  bona  fide,  really,  and  alto- 
gether.    {See  All.) 

"Tlie  ,crood  woman  iipver  die.l  after  this,  till  she 
came  tu  die  foi\if.iod  and  ■.M."—L' Estrange:  FaUks. 

Good  as  Gold.    Thoroughly  good. 

Good  for  Anything.  Ripe  for  any 
sort  of  work. 

"  After  a  man  has  had  a  year  or  two  at  this  sort 
of  Work,  he  is  good  ....  foranytliing."— iJoJdce- 
tvood:  ICubbenj  under  Arms,  chap.  xi. 

^ot  good  for  aiigt/i  iiig.  Utterly  worth- 
less ;  used  up  or  worn  down. 

Good  Wine  needs  no  Biisli.  It  was 

customary  to  hang  out  ivy,  boughs  of 
trees,  flowers,  etc.,  at  public  houses  to 
notify  to  travellers  that  "good  cheer" 
might  be  had  within. 

"  Some  ale-honses  upon  the  road  I  saw, 
And  some  with  bushes  showing  they  wine  did 
draw." 

Poor  Robin's  Perambulations  (lG7s). 

Goods.  I  carry  all  mg  goods  ivith  me 
{Om»ia  mea  mecttm  porta) .  Said  by  Bias, 
one  of  the  seven  sages,  when  Prie'ne  was 
besieged  and  the  inhabitants  were  pre- 
paring for  flight. 

Goodfellow  {Robin).  Sometimes 
called  Puck,  sou  of  Oberou,  a  domestic 
spirit,  tlie  constant  attendant  on  the 
English  fairy-court ;  full  of  tricks  and 
fond  of  practical  jokes. 

"  Tliat  shrewd  and  knavish  sprite] 
Called  Ilul.ln  Goodfellow." 
Shakespeare  :  Midsuiuiiier  Xiylit's  Dream,  ii.  1. 

Goodluck's  Close  (Norfolk).  A 
corruption  of  Guthlac's  Close,  so  called 
from  a  chapel  founded  by  Allen,  son  of 
Godfrey  de  Swaffham,  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  II.,  and  dedicated  to  St.  Guthlac. 

Goodman.  A  husband  or  master  is 
the  Saxon  gi/jiia  ov  gon/a  (a  man),  which 
in  the  inflected  cases  becomes  guman  or 
goman.  In  St.  Matt.  xxiv.  i'-i,  ' '  If  the 
goodmau  of  the  house  had  known  in 
what  watch  the  thief  would  come,  he 
would  have  watched."     Gommau  and 


o37  Goody 


gommer,  for  the  master  and  mistress  of 
a  house,  are  by  no  means  uncommon. 
The  phrase  is  also  used  of  the  devil. 

"  There's  nae  luck  aliout'the  house 

When  our  gudeman's  awa."        Miel.Ie. 

Goodman,  or  St.  Gutman.  Patron 
saint  of  tailors,  being  himself  of  the 
same  craft. 

Goodman    of   Bal'lengeich.      The 

assumed  name  of  James  V.  of  Scotland 
when  he  made  his  disguised  visits 
through  the  couutry  districts  around 
Edinburgh  and  Stirliug,  after  the  fashion 
of  Haroun-al-Raschid,  Louis  XI.,  etc. 

Goodman's  Croft.  A  strip  of  ground 
or  corner  of  a  field  formerly  left  untilled, 
in  Scotland,  in  the  belief  that  unless 
some  such  jilace  were  left,  the  spirit  of 
evil  would  damage  the  crop. 

"  Scotchmen  still  living  remember  the  corner  of 
a  field  being  left  for  the  goodmau's  croft."— I'^/ioc; 
Primitive  Caltnre,  ii.  370. 

Goodman's  Fields,  Whitechapel. 
Fields  belonging  to  a  farmer  named 
Goodman. 

"  At  the  which  farm  I  myself  in  my  youth  have 
fetched  many  a  halfpenny-worth  of  milk,  and 
ne\erliadle.-s  than  tbrecale-pints  fdv  a  halfpenny 
in  siuiiiiicr,  nor  less  tli.-iu  one  ale-pint  in  wintei', 
always  liot  from  the  kiln-  .  .  .  and  si  rained.  One 
Troll, p,  and  aflenvards  tJo.idnian,  were  the  farm- 
ers there,  and  had  thirty  or  forty  kinc  tu  thep.iil." 
— ,SYo(r. 

Goodwin  Sands  consisted  at  one 
time  of  about  4,000  acres  of  low  land 
fenced  from  the  sea  by  a  wall,  belonging 
to  Earl  Goodwin  or  Godwin.  William 
the  Conqueror  bestowed  them  on  the 
abbey  of  St.  Augustine,  at  Canterbury, 
and  the  abbot  allowed  the  sea-wall  to 
fall  into  a  dilapidated  state,  so  that  the 
sea  broke  through  in  1100  and  inundated 
the  whole.     {See  Tenteeden  Steeple.) 

Goodwood  Races.  So  called  from 
the  ptirk  in  which  they  are  held.  Tliey 
begin  the  last  Tuesday  of  July,  and  last 
four  days  ;  but  the  principal  one  is 
Thursday,  called  the  "  Cup  Daj'." 
These  races,  being  held  in  a  private 
park,  are  very  select,  and  admirably 
coLducted.  Goodwood  Park,  the  i)ro- 
perty  of  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  was 
purchased  by  Charles,  the  first  Duke,  of 
the  Compton  family,  then  resident  in 
East  Lav'ant,  a  village  two  miles  uorth 
of  Chichester. 

Goody.  A  depreciative,  meaning 
weakly  moral  and  religious.  In  French, 
bon  homitie  is  used  in  a  similar  waj'. 

"Xo  doubt,  if  a  Ctesar  or  a  Napoleon  comes  be- 
fore some  man  of  weak  will  .  .  .  especially  if  he 
be  a  goody  man,  [he]  will  litiail."— y.  Cook:  Con- 
science, lecture  iv.  p.  4\). 


Goody 


538 


Goose 


Goody  is  good-wife,  Chaucer's  good- 
lefe  ;  as,  Goody  Dobsou.  Good-wonian 
means  the  mistress  of  the  house,  con- 
tracted sometimes  into  gommer,  as  good- 
man  is  into  gomman.     [SfC  Goodmax.) 

Goody  Blake.  A  poor  okl  woman 
who  was  detected  by  Harry  Gill,  the 
farmer,  picking  up  sticks  for  a  wee-bit 
fire  to  warm  herself  by.  The  farmer 
compelled  her  to  leave  them  on  the  field, 
and  Goody  Blake  invoked  on  him  the 
curse  that  he  might  never  more  be  wami. 
From  that  moment  neither  blazing  fire 
nor  accumulated  clothing  ever  made 
Harry  Gill  warm  again.  Do  what  he 
would,  ' '  his  teeth  went  chatter,  chatter, 
still."  {]}'ordsiLorUt :  Goody  Blake  (uid 
JIarri/  Gill.) 

Goody  Two-Shoes.  This  talc  first 
appeared  in  116').  It  was  written  for 
Newber}',  as  it  is  said,  by  Oliver  Gold- 
smith. 

Goody-goody.  Very  religious  or 
mriral,  Imt  with  no  strength  of  mind  or 
independence  of  sjjuit. 

Goose.  A  tailors  smoothing-iron  ;  so 
called  because  its  handle  resembles  the 
neck  of  a  goose. 

"Come  in,  tailor;  Iktc  yoii  iiiiiy  roast  your 
Boi)SQ."—Slialcesi>eare:  JJacliclIi,  ii. :!. 

_  Fcrrara  gccsc.  Celebrated  for  the 
size  of  their  livers.  The  French  pi'ite 
de  fine  gras,  for  which  Strasbom-g  is 
so  noted,  is  not  a  French  invention,  but 
a  mere  imitation  of  a  well-known  dish 
of  classic  times. 

"  I  wisli,  poiitlciiicn,  ir  was  one  of  tlio  geese  of 
Feir.ira,  so  imu-li  oeli'hratiMl  among  the  ancients 
f'.r  the  ii.aLriiitmie  of  llieii'  livers,  one  of  wliicli  is 
f-aiil  t.i  liave  weii-'licd  uimanls  of  two  iiounds. 
With  this  focid,  e.MUiisilc  as  it  was,  did  Heliog- 
al/alus  regale  his  lioimas."— ,S'))!o/(eH.-  Peregrme 
Pickle. 

Wayz  Goose.     (See  Wayz.) 

nieooli  your  y oo.se  for  yon.  I'll  jiay 
you  out.  Eric,  King  of  Sweden,  coming 
to  a  certain  town  with  very  few  soldiers, 
the  enemy,  in  mockery,  hung  out  a  goose 
for  him  to  shoot  at.  Finding,  however, 
that  the  king  meant  business,  and  that 
it  would  be  no  laughing  matter  for  them, 
they  sent  heralds  to  ask  him  what  he 
wanted.  "  To  cook  your  goose  for  you," 
he  facetiously  replied. 

Ho  killed  the  goose  to  get  the  eqgs.  He 
grasped  at  what  was  more  than  his  due, 
and  lost  an  excellent  customer.  The 
Greek  fable  says  a  countryman  had  a 
goose  that  laid  golden  eggs"^;  thinking  to 
make  himself  rich,  he  killed  the  goose 
to  get  the  whole  stock  of  eggs  at  once, 
but  lost  everything. 


He  steak  a  goose,  and  gives  the  gihhts 
in  alms.  He  amasses  wealth  by  over- 
reaching, and  salves  his  conscience  by 
giving  small  sums  in  charity. 

The  older  the  goose  the  harder  to  pliieJc. 
Old  men  are  unwilling  to  part  with  their 
money.  The  reference  is  to  the  custom 
of  plucking  live  geese  for  tlio  sake  of 
their  quills.  Steel  pens  have  put  an  end 
to  this  barbarous  custom. 

2'o  get  the  goose.  To  get  hissed  on  the 
stage.     (Theatrieal.) 

JUiat  a  goose  you  are.  In  the  Egyptian 
hieroglyphics  the  emblem  of  a  vain  silly 
fellow  is  a  goose. 

G^ose  and  Gridiron.  A  ])ublic- 
liouse  sign,  jiroperly  the  coat  of  arms  of 
the  Company  of  Musician.s — viz.  a  swan 
with  expanded  wings,  within  a  double 
trissure  [the  gridiron],  counter,  florj', 
argent.  Pei-verted  into  a  goose  striking 
the  bars  of  a  gridiron  witli  its  foot,  and 
called  "The  Swan  and  Harji,"  or 
"  Goose  and  Gridiion." 

This  famous  lodfre  of  the  Freemasons,  of  which 
Wren  was  .Master  ^iu  London  Honse  Vard;,  was 
doon^cd  In  1)<94. 

Goose  at  Michaelmas.  One  legend 
sa3-s  tliat  St.  Maitin  was  tormented  by 
a  goose  which  he  killed  and  ate.  As  he 
died  from  the  repast,  good  Christians 
have  ever  since  sacrificed  the  goose  ou 
the  day  of  the  saint. 

The  pojiular  tradition  is  that  Queen 
Elizabeth,  on  her  way  to  TiHnuy  Fort 
(September  29th,  l')88),  dined  at  the 
ancient  seat  of  Sir  Neville  Umfreyville, 
where,  among  other  tldngs,  two  fine 
geese  were  provided  for  dinner.  The 
queen,  having  eaten  heartily,  called  for 
a  bumper  of  Burgundy,  and  gave  as  a 
toa.st,  "  Destruction  to  the  Spanish 
Armada  !  "  Scarcely  had  she  spoken 
when  a  messenger  announced  the  de- 
struction of  the  fleet  by  a  storm.  The 
queen  demanded  a  second  bumjDcr,  and 
said,  "Henceforth  shall  a  goose  com- 
memorate this  great  victory. ' '  This  tale 
is  marred  by  the  awkward  circumstance 
that  the  thanksgiving  sermon  for  the 
victory  was  preached  at  St.  Paul's  on  the 
20th  August,  and  the  fleet  was  disiiersed 
by  the  winds  in  July.  Gascoigne, 
who  died  1577,  refers  to  the  custom 
of  goose-eating  at  Michaelmas  as  com- 
mon. 

"  At  Christmas  a  capon,  at  Michaelmas  a  goose, 
And  somewhat  else  at  NewYere's  tide,  forfeare 
the  lease  flies  loose." 

V  At  Michaelmas  time  stubble-geese 
ai'e  in  perfection,  and  tenants  formerly 


Gooseberry 


539 


Gorgibus 


presented  tlieir  landlords  with  one  to 
keep  in  their  good  graces. 

All  111. 11 '-'li  L'rcsiMv.Ti-  Sfi-ve.l  at  ttililciii  Jliiliiicl- 
liias  tiiiN-,  I'l-iMi'r  I  he  .li-sinn-iion  .,f  t  lii>  Aniiiida, 

still    till-,    .MiiiiMi' rati'    ilial    .■\ciit.     So    tlii-rc 

Wi'VO  ilualil!.---  |-alli;..i\\s  l„-l-,,r,-  liic  i-'lduil,  vi-t 
(iod  iiiailc  111.'  laiiiliiiw  Uiu  liiktai  (if  His  vi'i-iiiiise 
nut  to  st'iul  auiillifr  Flood  iipou  the  world. 

Gooseberry.  Fox  Talbot  snys  this 
is  St.  John's  berry,  being  ripe  about  St. 
John's  Day.  [This  must  be  John  tlie 
Baptist,  at  the  end  of  August,  not  John 
tlie  Evangelist,  at  the  beginning  of 
May.]  Hence,  he  says,  it  is  called  in 
Holland  Jdiialimrii.  Jans'-beeren,  he 
continues,  has  been  corruj)ted  into  Gans- 
becreu,  and  Gaus  is  the  German  for 
goose.  This  is  very  ingenious,  but  r/or.w 
(furze)  offers  a  simpler  derivation. 
Gorsc-bcrry  (the  prickly  bei-ry)  would 
be  like  the  Gemian  stachd-bccre  (the 
"prickly  berry"),  and  kruHS-beerc 
(the  rough  gooseberry),  from  hrauen 
(to  scratch).  Krausboere,  Gorse-berry, 
Gooseberry.  In  Scotland  it  is  called 
grosser.     (6('e  Beae's  Gaelick.) 

To  plan  [/oosebcrv)!  i^  ^*^  8'°  with  two 
lovers  for  appearance'  sake.  The  person 
"who  plays  propriety"  is  expected  to 
hear,  see,  and  say  nothing.    {^>Sce  GooSE- 

BEEEY  PiCKEE.) 

He  platjcd  up  old  gooseberry  uith  me. 
He  took  great  liberties  with  my  property, 
and  greatly  abused  it ;  in  fact,  he  made 
gooseberry  fool  of  it.     (6Ve  below.) 

Gooseberry  Fool.  A  corruption  of 
goosel)erry  J'"/il'',  milled,  mashed, 
pressed.  The  French  have  fo/i/e  do 
pommes ;  foule  de  raisins ;  fouli  de 
groseilles,  our  "gooseberry  fool." 

V  Gooseberry  fool  is  a  compound  made 
of  gooseberries  scalded  and  pounded 
with  cream. 

Gooseberry  Picker  (./).  One  who 
has  all  tlia  toil  and  trouble  of  picking  a 
troublesome  fruit  for  the  delectation  of 
others.     {See  Tapisseeie.) 

Goosebridge.  Go  to  Gooscbruhje. 
"  Rule  a  wife  and  have  a  wife."  Boc- 
caccio (ix.  9)  tells  us  that  a  man  who 
had  married  a  shrew  asked  Solomon 
what  he  should  do  to  make  her  more 
submissive  ;  and  the  wise  king  answered, 
"Go  to  Goosebridge."  Eetiu-niughonie, 
deeply  perplexed,  he  came  to  a  bridge 
where  a  muleteer  was  trying  to  induce 
a  mule  to  pass  over  it.  The  mule  re- 
sisted, but  the  stronger  will  of  the  mule- 
teer at  length  prevailed.  The  man 
asked  the  name  of  the  bridge,  and  was 
told  it  was  "Goosebridge."    Petruchio 


tamed    Katharine    by  the  power  of  a 
stronger  will. 

Goose  Dubbs,  of  Glasgow.  A  sort 
of  Seven  Dials,  or  Scottish  Alsa'tia. 
The  Scotch  use  didi})s  for  a  filthy  puddle. 
(Welsh,  dab,  mortar ;  Irish,  doib,  plas- 
ter.) 

"The  Riipe-ihilis  o'  (41a-;','o\v:  O  sirs,  -niiat  a 
liiulilk"  o'  liiiiises,  .  .  .  till'  j.'i-iTii  iiiiddeus  o'  liaith 
Ihliiid  anil  solid  inaltfr,  soomin"  \vi'  dead  cats  and 
auld  sliooii,"— A'ocd  s  Ainbiosidixp. 

Goose  Gibbie.  A  half-witted  lad, 
who  first  "  kept  the  turkeys,  and  was 
afterwards  advanced  to  the  more  im- 
portant office  of  minding  the  cows." 
(,Sir  Walter  , Scott :  Old  Jlurtxlity.) 

Gopher-wood  (iej),  of  which  the 
ark  was  made. 

It  was  iicricid,  says  tlie  Religions  Tract  Society. 

It  was  li/ixicdod,  says  tbe  .-iraliian  conniientators. 

It  was  bulni^lics,  daubed  over  with  slime,  says 
Dawson. 

It  was  cedar,  says  tbe  Targnm  of  Onkelos. 

It  was  cufress,  says  Puller,  and  Kvnap  is  not 
unlike  (joplicr. 

It  was  eboiiy-wnod,  says  Bnckart. 

It  was  ihal  vr Ji r-iroo(l ,  sa.v  some. 

It  •n-.i^jiiiiiiier-iiojd,  says  Caslellus. 

It  was  pi7ie,  say  Aseuarius.  Munster,  Fersie, 
Taylor,  etc. 

It  was  u-icker-icood,  says  Geddes. 

Gordian  Knot.  A  great  difficulty. 
Gordius,  a  peasant,  being  chosen  king 
of  Phrygia,  dedicated  his  waggon  to 
Jupiter,  and  fastened  the  yoke  to  a 
beam  with  a  rope  of  bark  so  ingeniously 
that  no  one  could  untie  it.  Alexander 
was  told  that  "  whoever  undid  the  knot 
would  reign  over  the  whole  East." 
"Well  then,"  said  the  conqueror,  "it 
is  thus  I  perfonn  the  task,"  and,  so 
saying,  he  cut  the  knot  in  twain  with 
his  sword. 

To  cut  the  knot  is  to  evade  a  difficulty, 
or  get  out  of  it  in  a  summary  manner. 

"  Siudi  praise  tlie  JIaoedonian  pot 
For  having  rudely  cut  tlu'lionliaii  knot." 
llVi //()•;  T'ttlic  King. 
"Turn  liim  tnany  cause  of  pilicy, 
The  (Jorilian  knot  of  it  lie  will  unloose, 
Familiar  as  his  garter.' 

.•iliaUci-pcarc :  llevry  Y.  i.  1. 

Gordon  Riots.  Riots  in  1780, 
heailed  by  Lord  George  Gordon,  to  com- 
pel tlie  House  of  Commons  to  repeal  the 
bill  passed  in  1778  for  the  relief  of 
Roman  Catholics.  Gordon  was  undoubt- 
edly of  unsound  mind,  and  he  died  in 
1793,  a  proselyte  to  Judaism.  Dickens 
has  given  a  very  vivid  description  of  the 
Gordon  riots  in  Barnaby  Itudgc. 

Gor'gibus.  An  honest,  simple-minded 
burgess,  brought  into  all  sorts  of  troubles 
by  the  love  of  finery  and  the  gingerbread 
gentility  of  his  niece  and  his  daughter. 
{Moliere :  Les  Frecieuses  Jiidiciiles.) 


G-orgon 


540 


Goth 


Gorgon.  Anything  unusually  hide- 
ous. There  were  three  Gorgons,  with 
serpents  on  their  heads  instead  of  hair  ; 
Medu'sa  was  the  chief  of  the  three,  and 
the  only  one  that  was  mortal ;  but  so 
liideous  was  her  face  that  whoever  set 
eyes  on  it  was  instantly  turned  into 
stone.  She  was  slain  by  Perseus,  aud 
her  head  placed  on  the  shield  of  Minerva. 

"  Lest  GorRon  rising  from  tbc  infernal  lakes 
Witb  liurrors armed, and  curls  of  hissinj-' snakes, 
Slxmld  lix  me,  stiffened  at  tlie  monstrous  sight, 
A  stony  image  in  eternal  niglit." 

Oilyssei/,  xi. 
"  What  was  that  snaky-headed  Gordon  shield 
That  wise  Minerva  wore  ,  unconcjuered  virgin, 
"Wherewith  she  freezed  her  foes  to  congealed 

stone? 
But  rigid  loo!;s  of  chaste  austerity, 
And  uohle  grace,  that  dasheil  lirute  violence 
With  sudden  adoration  and  blank  awe." 

iliUun:  t'o)HU«,  458— 463. 

Gorham  Controversy.  This  arose 
out  of  the  refusal  of  the  bishop  of  Exe- 
ter to  institute  the  Kev.  Cornelius  Gor- 
ham to  the  vicarage  of  Brampford  Speke, 
"because  he  held  unsound  views  on  the 
doctrine  of  baptism."  Mr.  Gorham 
maintained  that  "  spiritual  regeneration 
is  not  conferred  on  children  by  baptism." 
After  two  years'  controversy,  the  Privy 
Council  decided  in  favour  of  Mr.  Gor- 
ham (18.')1). 

Gorlois,  Duke  of  Cornwall,  husband 
of  Igorna,  who  was  the  mother  of  King 
Arthur  by  an  adulterous  connection  with 
Uther,  pendragon  of  the  Britons. 

Gosling.  A  term  applied  to  a  silly 
fellow,  a  simpleton. 

"  Surprised  at  all  they  meet,  the  gosling  pair, 
With  awkward  gait,  stretched  neck,  and  silly 

stare, 
Biscover  hu.ae  cathedrals." 

L'utrpcr  :  Progress  of  Error,  379—81. 

Goslings.  The  catkins  of  nut-trees, 
pines,  etc.  Halliwell  says  they  are  so 
called  from  their  yellow  colour  and 
fluffy  textm-e. 

Gospel.  A  panacea ;  a  scheme  to 
bring  about  some  promised  reform  ;  a 
beau  ideal.  Of  course  the  theological 
word  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  gochpiU,  i.e. 
God  and  spd  (a  story),  a  translation  of 
the  Greek  cvaiigelion,  the  good  story. 

"  Mr.  Carnegie's  gospel  is  the  very  thing  for  the 
transition  period  from  social  heathendom  t<i 
social  Christianity."— iViiictceHt/i  Century  (.March, 
18yi,  p.  3SU). 

Gospel   according   to   .   .   .     The 

chief  teaching  of  [so-and-so].  "The 
Gospel  according  to  Mammon "  is  the 
making  and  collecting  of  money.  "  The 
Gospel  according  to  Sir  Pertinax  Mac 
Sycophant,"  is  bowing  and  cringing  to 
those  who  are  in  a  position  to  lend  you 
a  helping  hand. 


Gospel  of  Nicodemus  (7"/'^).  Some- 
times called  "The  Acts  of  Pilate  "  {Acta 
I'lldti),  was  the  main  source  of  the 
"Mysteries"  and  "Miracle  Plays"  of 
the  Middle  Ages  ;  and  although  now 
deemed  apocryphal,  seemsfor  many  ages 
to  have  been  accepted  as  genuine. 

Gospel  of  Wealth  {Tin).  The  hy- 
pothesis that  wealth  is  the  great  end  and 
aim  of  man,  the  one  thing  needful. 

•'  The  (iospel  of  Wealth  advocates  leaving  free 
the  opeiatiiin  i^f  laws  of  accumulation."— ('«)•- 
ticiiii' :  Adcantiiijes  of  Poverty. 

Gospellers.  Follower.s  of  Wycliffe, 
called  the  "  Gosjiel  Doctor;"  any  one 
who  believes  that  the  New  Testament 
has  in  part,  at  least,  superseded  the  Old. 

J[<it  Gosjirllrrft.  A  nickname  applied 
to  the  Puritans  after  the  Eestoration. 

Gossamer.  According  to  legend, 
this  delicate  thread  is  the  ravelling  of  the 
Virgin  Mary's  winding-sheet,  which  fell 
to  earth  on  her  ascension  to  heaven.  It 
is  said  to  be  Gud'n  scam,  i.e.  God's 
thread.  Philologically  it  is  the  Latin 
(jossipiii-Ks,  cotton. 

Gossip.  A  tattler  ;  a  sponsor  at  bap- 
tism, a  corruption  of  (/os.sih,  which  is  God- 
sib,  a  kinsman  in  the  Lord.  ('SVZi,  r/csib, 
Anglo-Saxon,  kinsman,  whence  sihiiuiii, 
he  iH  our  sib,  still  used.) 

"  "fis  not  a  maid,  for  she  hath  had  gossips[spon- 
sors  for  her  child];  yet  'tis  a  maid,  for  she  is  her 
iijaster's  servant,  and  serves  for  v;»ges."—  Shuke- 
sjieare;  Two  Gextlemeii  of  Yiroua,  iii.  1. 

Gossip.  A  father  confessor,  of  a  good, 
easy,  jovial  frame. 

■'Here,  Andrc'.v,  carry  this  to  my  eossip.  jolly 
fathiT  Boniface,  the  mniik  of  St.  Martin's."— .Sic 
W'ldttr  t<Ci.tt :  tjiuiitiii  Diiruard. 

Gossyp'ia.  The  cotton-plant  per- 
sonified. 

"  The  nym]  h  Gossyjiia  heads  the  velvet  sod, 
Aud  warms  with  rosy  smiles  the  watery  god." 
Ddrifhi :  Loves  of  the  J'l(uits,  canto  ii. 

Got  the  Mitten.  Jilted ;  got  lus 
dismissal.  The  word  is  from  the  Latin 
nittto,  to  dismiss. 

"  There  is  a  young  lady  I  have  set  my  heart  on ; 
though  whether  she  is  agoiu'  to  give  me  hern,  or 
give  hie  the  mitten,  I  ain't  quite  satistled."— Atim 
Sllclc :  Human  Nature,  p.  90. 

Gotch.  A  large  stone  jug  with  a 
handle  (Norfolk).  Fetch  the  f/otch,  mor 
— i.e.  fetch  the  great  water-jug,  lassie. 

"A  gotch  of  milk  I've  been  to  fill." 

Bloniiijield  :  Jiicliard  and  Kate. 

Goth.  Icelandic,  got  (a  horseman)  ; 
whence  JJ'oclcii — i.e.  Gotlien. 

'•  The  (ioths  were  divided  hy  the' Dnieper  into 
Kast  Goths  (Ostrogoths),  and  West  Goths  (Visi- 
goths), and  were  the  most  cultureii  of  the  Gern.an 
l<eoiAes."—Barii>/j-GoaM:  Story  of  Germany,  p.  37. 


Gotham 


541 


Goutte  de  Sang 


Last  of  the  Goiiis.  Roderick,  the 
thirty-fourth  of  the  Visigothic  Hue  of 
kings  (414-711).     (<Vce  Eodeeick.) 

Gotbam.  Wise  Men  of  Gotham. — 
fools.  Many  tales  of  folly  liave  been 
f  fithered  on  the  Gothamites,  one  of  which 
is  their  joining  hands  round  a  thorn- 
bush  to  shut  in  a  cuckoo.  The  "  bush" 
is  still  shown  to  visitors. 

It  is  said  that  King  John  intended  to 
make  a  progress  through  this  town  with 
the  view  of  purchasing  a  castle  and 
grounds.  Tlie  townsmen  had  no  desire 
to  be  saddled  with  this  exj^euse,  and 
therefore  when  the  royal  messengers 
appeared,  wherever  they  went  they  saw 
the  peoj)le  occupied  in  some  idiotic 
pursuit.  The  king  being  told  of  it, 
abandoned  his  intention,  and  the  "wise 
men  "  of  the  village  cunningly  remarked, 
"  We  ween  there  are  more  fools  pass 
through  Gotham  than  remain  in  it." 
Andrew  Boyde,  a  native  of  Gotham, 
wrote  The  Merrio  Tales  of  the  Wise  Men 
of  Gotham,  founded  on  a  commission 
signed  by  Henry  VIII.  to  tlie  magistrates 
of  that  town  to  prevent  poaching. 

N.B.  All  nations  have  fixed  upon 
some  locality  as  their  limbus  of  fools  ; 
thus  we  have  Phrygia  as  the  fools'  home 
of  Asia  Minor,  Abde'ra  of  the  Thracians, 
BcEo'tia  of  the  Greeks,  Nazareth  of  the 
ancient  Jews,  Swabia  of  the  modern 
Germans,  and  so  on.  {8ee  Coggeshall.) 

Gothamites  (3  sjd.).  American 
cocknej-s.  New  York  is  called  satirically 
Gotham. 

"  Such  things  as  would  strike  ...  a  stranger  in 
our  beloved  C4othani,  and  places  to  which  our 
regular  Gothamites  (American  cockneys)  are 
wont  to  repair." — Frascr's  Uitijazlne :  Sketclies  of 
American  Society. 

Gothic  Architecture  has  nothing 
to  do  with  the  Goths,  but  is  a  term  of 
contempt  bestowed  by  the  architects  of 
the  Renaissance  period  on  mediaeval 
architecture,  which  they  tenned  Gothic 
or  clumsy,  fit  for  barbarians. 

"  St.  Louis  .  .  .  built  the  Ste.  Chapelle  of  Paris, 
.  .  .  the  most  precious  piece  of  Gothic  in  North- 
ern Europe."— iSHsfci)! ;  Fors  Clavigera,  vol.  i. 

V  Napoleon  III.  magniflcently  restoredand  laid 
open  this  exquisite  church. 

Gouk  or  Gowk.  In  the  Teutonic  the 
word  gaueh  means  fool ;  whence  the 
Anglo-Saxon  geac,  a  cuckoo,  and  the 
Scotch  goke  or  c/onlc. 

Hunting  the  gowk  [fool],  is  making 
one  an  April  fool.     ("SVe  April.) 

A  gowk  storm  is  a  term  applied  to  a 
storm  consisting  of  several  days  of 
tempestuous  weather,   believed  by  the 


peasantry  to  take  place  periodically  about 
the  beginning  of  April,  at  the  time  that 
the  gowk  or  cuckoo  visits  this  country. 

"  That  beins  done,  he  hoped  that  this  was  but  a 
gowk-storm.'"— .b'ir  Li.  Mackenzie:  Memoirs,  p.  To. 

Gourd.  Used  in  the  Middle  Ages  for 
corks  {Orlando  Furioso,  x.  lOG) ;  used  also 
for  a  cup  or  bottle.  (French,  gourde  ; 
Latin,  eaeurhita.) 

Jonah''s  gourd  \Jcikireii'],  the  Talma 
Christi,  called  in  Egypt  klki.  Niebuhr 
sjieaks  of  a  specimen  which  he  himself 
saw  near  a  rivulet,  which  in  October 
"rose  eight  feet  in  five  months'  time." 
And  Volney  says,  "Wherever  plants 
have  water  the  rapidity  of  their  growth 
is  prodigious.  In  Cairo,"  he  adds,  "there 
is  a  sjjecies  of  gourd  which  in  twenty- 
four  hours  will  send  out  shoots  four 
inches  long."     {Travels,  vol.  i.  p.  71.) 

Gourds.  Dice  with  a  secret  cavity. 
Those  loaded  with  lead  were  called 
Fulhams  [q.v.). 

"  Gourds  and  fullam  holds. 
And  liitrli  and  low  beguile  the  rich  and  poor." 
aiuikctiiiaire  :  Merrjj  Wins  of  ll'/Hrfsor,  i.  3. 

Gourmand  and  Gourmet  (French). 
The  gourmand  is  one  whose  chief  pleasure 
is  eating  ;  but  a  gourmet  is  a  connoisseur 
of  footl  and  wines.  In  England  the 
difference  is  this  :  a  gourntaiul  regards 
quantity  more  than  quality,  a  gourmet 
quahty  more  than  quantity.  (Welsh, 
gor,  excess;  gorni,  a  fulness;  gounnod, 
too  much  ;  gormant;  etc.)    {Hec  Apicius.) 

"  In  former  times  [in  France]  qonrmand  meant  a 
judge  of  eating,  and  gourmet  a  judge  of  wiue  .  .  . 
Gourmet  is  now  universally  understood  to  refer 
to  catiug,  and  not  to  drinking." — Hamerton: 
French  and  Emjlisli,  part  \.  chap.  iv.  p.  249. 

Gourmand's  Prayer  {The).  "O 
Philoxenos,  Philoxeuos,  why  were  j'ou 
not  Prometheus':'"  Prometheus  was 
the  mythological  creator  of  man,  and 
Philoxenos  was  a  great  epicure,  whose 
great  and  constant  wish  was  to  have  the 
neck  of  a  crane,  that  he  might  enjoy  the 
taste  of  his  food  longer  before  it  was 
swallowed  into  his  stomach.  {Aristotle  : 
Ethics,  iii.  10.) 

Gourre  (1  syl.).  A  debauched  wo- 
man. Tlie  citizens  of  Paris  bestowed 
the  name  on  Isabella  of  Bavaria. 

"  We  have  here  ...  a  man  .  .  .  who  to  his 
second  wife  espoused  La  graudc  Gourre."— /Jxte- 
lais:  ranttig'riicl,  iii.  21. 

Gout,  from  the  French  goutte,  a  drop, 
because.it  was  once  thought  to  proceed 
from  a  "  drop  of  acrid  matter  in  the 
joints." 

Goutte  de  Sang.  The  Adonis  flower 
or  pheasant's  eye,  said  to  be  stained  by 


Goven 


542 


Grace  Darling 


the  blood  of  Adonis,  wjio  was  gored  by 
a  boar. 

"  O  nciir,  si  clicrc  ii  CyUieri'O 
'I'a  cdvolle  fur,  en  iiaissaiit, 
[  ■  l)u  saug  d' Adonis  colorce." 

Goven.    St.  Govcit''s  Bell.    (.SVc  Inch- 
cape.) 
Government  Men.    Convicts. 

"  [He]  Lad  always  liofii  a  liard-nnrliiii!-'  man  .  . . 
Cdiid  at  iiii'st  tbiiij-'S,  and,  liki'  a  l(d  more  uf  I  lie 
Uovcnuuriit  men,  as  llie  conviets  were  called, 
. .  .  li:id  sa\  eil  some  \w\w): ." —Jioldrcwmd:  Uubbivy 
iiiidti-  Anna,  eliap.  i. 

Gowan.  A  daisy  ;  a  perennial  jilant 
or  flower. 

The  ewe-gowau  is  the  common  d.ii.sy, 
apparently  clenoniiuated  from  the  ewe, 
as  being  irequently  in  pastures  fed  on 
by  sheep. 

"S<mie  bit  waefu' love  story,  cnonu-li  1o  mak 
tlie  I'inks  an' the  cwe-gowans  blush  lu  Ihe  \ery 
hi'."— Brvii-iiic  of  Budxlwcl;,  i.  •J15. 

Gower,  called  by  Chaucer  "  The  moral 
Gower." 

"  ()  mor;il  (lower,  this  Imnk  1  direct 

To  Ihe.-,  and  lo  Ihi'  |.hih.soii|iical  SIrood, 
To  \  oiiclisaiif  Iheii'  lU'ecl  is  I o  correct 
(If  Miiir  lienigiiilieo  and  zeales  food." 

Chdiiccr. 
Gowk.    {See  GouK.) 

Go^yk-th^apple  {Jfnistrr).  A  puljut- 
dnininiino-    "  cho.sen   vessel"  in   Scott's 

M'drcrlcii. 

Gowlee  (Iiirfirin).  A  "cow-herd." 
One  of  the  Hindu  castes  is  so  called. 

Gown.  Gown  and  toiin  row.  A 
scrinnnage  between  the  students  of 
different  colleges,  on  one  side,  and  the 
townsmen,  on  the  other.  These  feuds  go 
back  to  the  reign  of  King  John,  when 
8,000  students  left  Oxford  for  Reading, 
owing  to  a  quarrel  with  the  men  of  the 
town.  What  little  now  remains  of  this 
"  ancient  tenure  "  is  confiued,  as  far  as 
the  town  is  concerned,  to  the  bargees 
and  their  "  tails." 

Gownsman.  A  student  at  one  of 
the  universities ;  so  called  because  he 
wears  an  academical  gown. 

Graal.    {Sec  Geail.) 

Grab.  To  clutch  or  seize.  /  r/rahhed 
it ;  he  grabbed  him,  i.e.  the  bailiff  caught 
him.  (Swedish,  ^rffWff,  to  grasp  ;  Danish, 
griber ;  our  grip,  gripe,  grope,  grapple.) 

A  land  grabber.  A  very  common  ex- 
pression in  Ireland  during  the  last  two 
decades  of  the  nineteenth  century,  to 
signify  one  who  takes  the  farm  or  land 
of  an  evicted  tenant. 

Grace.  The  sister  Graces.  The  Eo- 
maus  said  there  were  three  sister  Graces, 
bosom  friends  of  the  Muses.  They  are 
represented  as    embracing    each  other, 


to  show  that  where  one  is  the  other  is 
welcome.  Their  names  arc  Aglcea, 
TlialKi,  and  Eujilirosyne. 

Grace's  Card  or  Grace-card.  'J'lie 
six  of  hearts  is  so  called  in  Kilkenny. 
At  the  Revolution  in  1()88,  one  of  the 
family  of  Grace,  of  Courtstown,  in  Ire- 
land, eipiiiipcd  at  liis  own  oxjiensc  a 
regiment  of  foot  ami  troop  of  liorse,  in 
the  service  of  King  James.  AVilliam  of 
Orange  i)romised  him  high  honours  if  he 
wotd((  join  the  new  pa.rty,  but  the  in- 
dignant liarou  wrot(!  on  a  card,  "  Tell 
your  master  I  ik'spise  his  oifer."  Tlio 
card  was  the  six  of  liearts,  and  hence  tlio 
name. 

V  It  was  a  common  practice  till  quite 
modern  times  to  utilise  playing-cards 
for  directions,  orders,  and  addresses. 

Grace  Cup  or  I.oriug  Cap.  Tlio  larger 
tankard  ii.issed  round  the  talile  after 
grace.  It  is  still  seen  at  tlie  Lord 
Maj'or's  feasts,  at  college,  and  occasion- 
ally in  private  bantiuets. 

V  The  ])roper  way  of  drinking  the 
cup  observed  at  the  Lord  Mayor's  ban- 
quet or  City  companies'  is  to  have  a 
silver  bowl  witli  two  handles  and  a 
napkin.  Two  persons  stand  up,  one  lo 
drink  and  the  other  to  defend  the 
drinker.  Having  taken  his  draught,  he 
wipes  the  cup  with  the  napkin,  and 
passes  it  to  his  "defender,"  when  the 
next  person  rises  to  defend  the  new 
drinker.     And  so  on  to  the  end. 

Grace  Darling,  daughter  of  William 
Darling,  lighthouse-keeper  on  Longstono, 
one  of  the  Fame  Islands.  On  the  morn- 
ing of  the  7th  September,  1838,  Grace 
au(t  her  father  saved  nine  of  the  crew  of 
the  Forfarshire  steamer,  wrecked  among 
the  Fame  Isles,  opposite  Bamborough 
Castle  (1815-1842).  Wordsworth  has  a 
poem  on  the  subject. 

'The  Grace  Darling  of  America.  Ida 
Lewis  (afterwards  Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson, 
of  Black  Rock,  Connecticut).  Her 
father  kept  the  Limerock  lighthouse  iu 
Newport  harbour.  At  the  age  of 
eighteen  she  saved  four  young  men  whose 
boat  had  upset  in  the  harbour.  A  little 
later  she  saved  the  life  of  a  drunken 
sailor  whose  boat  had  sunk.  In  1867 
she  rescued  three  men  ;  and  in  1868  a 
small  boy  who  had  clung  to  the  mast  of 
a  sailboat  from  midnight  till  morning. 
In  1869  she  and  her  brother  Hosea 
rescued  two  .«ailors  whose  boat  had 
capsized  in  a  squall.  Soon  after  this 
she  married,  and  her  career  at  the  light- 
house ended.     (Born  1841.) 


Grace  Days 


543 


Grain 


Grace  Days  or  Days  of  Grace.  The 
three  days  over  and  above  the  time  stated 
iu  a  commercial  bill.  Thus,  if  a  bill  is 
drawn  ou  the  20tli  June,  and  is  jtayablo 
in  one  month,  it  ought  to  be  due  ou  the 
20th  of  July,  but  three  days  of  grace  are 
to  be  added,  briughig  the  date  to  the 
23rd  of  July. 

Gracechurch  (London)  is  Graes- 
churcli,  or  Clrass-church,  the  church 
built  ou  the  site  of  the  old  grass-market. 
Grass  at  one  time  included  all  sorts  of 
herbs. 

Graceless  Florin.  The  first  issue 
of  the  English  florins,  so  called  because 
the  letters  D.G.  ("by  God's  grace")  were 
omitted  for  want  of  room.  It  happened 
that  Richard  Lalor  Shell,  the  master  of 
the  Mint,  was  a  Catholic,  and  a  scandal 
was  raised  that  the  omission  was  made 
on  religious  grounds.  The  florins  were 
called  in  and  re-cast.  (&'i?  Godless 
Floein.) 

V  Mr.  Shell  was  appointed  by  the  Whig 
ministry  Master  of  the  Mint  iu  1846  ;  he 
issued  the  florin  in  1849  ;  was  removed 
in  18o0,  and  died  at  Florence  in  1851, 
aged  nearly  57. 

Gracio'sa.  A  princess  beloved  by 
Perciuet,  who  thwarts  the  malicious 
schemes  of  Grognon,  her  stepmother. 
{Afmry  tj,lr.) 

Gracio'so.  The  interlocutor  iu  the 
Spanish  (Inline  roiiuoitiqiie.  He  thrusts 
himself  forward  ou  all  occasions,  ever 
and  anon  directing  Iris  gibes  to  the 
audience. 

Gradas'so.  A  bully  ;  so  called  from 
Gradasso,  King  of  Serica'na,  called  by 
Ariosto  "  the  "bravest  of  the  Pagan 
knights."  He  went  against  Charlemagne 
with  100,000  vassals  in  his  train,  all 
"discrowned  kings,"  who  never  ad- 
dressed him  but  on  their  knees.  {Orlando 
Farioso  and  Orlando  Innamorato.) 

Gradely.    A  north  of  England  term 
meaning  thoroughly  ;  regularly  ;  as  Be- 
have yourself  gradel II .  A  gradely  fine  day. 
"Sammy '11  fettle  him  graidely."— ,Vi-s. //.  Bur- 
nctt:  That  Lass  o'Loicrie's,  chap.  ii. 

Grad'grind  (Thomas).  A  man  who 
measures  everj^tlring  with  rule  and 
compass,  allows  nothing  for  the  weak- 
ness of  human  nature,  and  deals  with 
men  and  women  as  a  mathematician 
with  his  figures.  He  shows  that  stimmiim 
jus  is  suprema  injuria.  {Dickens :  Hard 
'  Tunes.) 

"  The  gradgrinds  undervalue  and  disparage  it." 
^Church  Review. 


Graemes  {Tlie).  A  class  of  free- 
booters, who  inhabited  the  debatable 
land,  and  were  transi)orted  to  Ireland 
at  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury. 

Graham.  A  charlatan  who  gave 
indecent  and  blasphemous  addresses  in 
the  "  Great  Apollo  Room,"  Adelphi.  He 
sometimes  made  mesmerism  a  medium 
of  pandering  to  the  prurient  taste  of  his 
audience. 

Grahame's  Dyke.  The  Roman  wall 
between  the  fritlis  of  the  Clyde  and 
Forth,  so  called  from  the  first  person 
who  leajjcd  over  it  after  the  Romans 
left  Britain. 

"Tills  wall  defended  the  Brituns  ten- a  time, but 
the  .Scuts  and  Picts  ajiscmliled  tlienitselvcs  in 
great  numbers,  and  clinilK'd  mer  it  ...  .  A  man 
named  CIrahame  is  said  tu  liave  been  the  flist 
soldier  who  gut  over,  and  tlie  coninu)n  pei>pl<3 
still  call  the  nniiains  of  the  wall  'Urahanie's 
Pike.'"— Sir  Walter  ticott  :  Tales  of  a  Grund- 
fatlier. 

Grail  {The  Ilohj).  In  French,  S'ln 
Graal.  This  must  not  be  confounded 
with  the  san-yrcal  or  sany-rcal,  for  the 
two  are  totally  distinct.  The  "Grail" 
is  either  the  piateu  or  dish  which  held 
the  paschal  lamb  eaten  by  Christ  and 
His  apostles  at  the  last  supper,  or  the 
cup  which  He  said  contained  the  blood 
of  the  New  Testament.  Joseph  of 
Arimathfea,  according  to  legend,  pre- 
served this  cu2^,  and  received  into  it 
some  of  the  blood  of  Jesus  at  the 
crucifixion.  He  brought  it  to  England, 
but  it  disappeared.  The  quest  of  the 
Holy  Grail  is  the  fertile  som-ce  of 
the  adventures  of  the  Knights  of  the 
Round  Table.  In  some  of  tlie  tales  it  is 
evidently  the  cuji,  in  others  it  is  the 
paten  or  dish  (French,  f/rasal,  the  sacra- 
mental cup).  Sir  Galahad  discovered  it 
and  died ;  but  each  of  the  1-50  knights 
of  King  Arthur  caught  sight  of  it ;  but, 
unless  pure  of  heart  and  holy  in  con- 
duct, the  grail,  though  seen,  suddenly 
disappeared.  {See  Geeal  and  Galahad.) 

Grain.    A  kiiare  in  yrain.     A  knave, 
though  a  rich  man,  or  magnate.     Grain 
means  scarlet  (Latin,  graiiuin,  the  coccus, 
or  scarlet  dye). 
"  a  military  vest  of  purple  flowed 

Livelier   than  MeliOe'an   [Thessalian],   or  the 
grain 

nt  Sarra.  [""yre]  worn  by  kings  and  heroes  old; 

In  lime  of  truce." 

Paradise  Lost,  xi.  241-2-lJ. 

Eogue  in  grain.  A  punning  application 
of  the  above  phrase  to  millers. 

lb  go  against  the  grain.  Against  one's 
inclination.  The  allusion  is  to  wood, 
which  cannot  be  easily  planed  the  wrong 
way  of  the  grain.. 


Gramercy 


544 


Grandison 


With  a  grain  of  salt.  Latin,  "  Cum 
grnno  sails,"  with  great  reservation. 
The  French  phrase  has  another  meaning 
— thus,  "J/  Icmaixjcrait  arcc  loi  f/rain  dc 
scV  means,  lie  could  double  up  such  a 
little  whipper-snapper  as  easilj-  as  one 
could  swallow  a  grain  of  salt.  In  the 
Latin  phrase  cum  does  not  mean  "  with  " 
or  "together  with,"  but  it  adverbialiscs 
the  noun,  as  cum  fide,  faithfully,  cum 
silcntio,  silently,  cum  Urtitia,  joyfully, 
cion  grauo,  minutely  ("  cinn  (jyaiio  saliy," 
in  the  minute  manner  that  one  takes 
salt). 

Gramercy.  Thank  you  much  (the 
French  grand  mcrcl).  Thus  iShakespeare, 
"Be  it  so,  Titus,  and  gramercy  too" 
(Titns  Aiidro»iciis,  i.  2).  Again,  "  Gra- 
mercies,  Tranio,  well  dost  thou  advise  " 
(Tainii/g  of  the  tiltreic,^  i.  1).  When 
Gobbo  says  to  Bassanio,  "  God  bless 
yoiu-  worship  !  "  he  rejilies,  "  Gramercy. 
Wouldst  thou  aught  with  me  'i  "  {Mer- 
chant of  Venice,  ii.  2.) 

Grammar.  Zenod'otos  invented  the 
terms  singular,  jjlural,  and  dual. 

The  scholars  of  Alexandria  and  of  the 
rival  academy  of  Per'gamos  were  the 
first  to  distinguish  language  into  i^arts 
of  speech,  and  to  give  technical  tcniis  to 
the  various  functions  of  words. 

The  first  Greek  grammar  was  by 
Dionysios  Thras,  and  it  is  still  extant. 
He  was  a  pupil  of  Aristarchos. 

Julius  CtEsar  was  the  inventor  of  the 
term  ablative  case. 

English  grammar  is  the  most  philo- 
sophical ever  devised  ;  and  if  the  first 
and  third  personal  pronouns,  the  rela- 
tive pronoun,  the  3rd  person  singular  of 
the  present  indicative  of  verbs,  and  the 
verb  "to  be"  could  be  reformed,  it 
would  be  as  near  perfection  as  possible. 

V  It  was  Kaiser  Sigismuud  who 
stumbled  into  a  wrong  gender,  and  when 
told  of  it  replied,  "  Ego  s/nii  I/nperafor 
Romanoran),  ct  supra  f/ra)uinaticai)i  " 
(1.520,  1548-1572). 

Grammarians.  Prince  of  Gram- 
marians. ApoUo'uios  of  Alexandria, 
called  byPriscian  Grammaiico' rum  prin- 
ceps  (second  century  B.C.). 

Grammont.  TIic  Count  dc  Gram- 
monfs  short  inemorij.  When  the  Count 
left  England  he  was  followed  by  the 
brothers  of  La  Belle  Hamilton,  who,  with 
drawn  swords,  asked  him  if  he  had  not 
forgotten  something.  "True,  true," 
said  the  Count;  "I  promised  to  marry 
your  sister,"  and  instantly  went  back  to 


repair  the  lapse  by  making  the  young 
lady  Countess  of  Grammont. 

Granary  of  Europe.  So  Sicily  used 
to  be  called. 

Granby.  The  Marquis  of  Graiihg.  A 
public-house  sign  in  honour  of  John 
Maimers,  Marquis  of  Granbj',  a  po2uilar 
English  general  (1721-1770). 

The  Times  .says  the  old  marquis  owes 
his  sign-board  notoriety  "  partly  to  his 
personal  bravery  and  partly  to  the 
baldness  of  his  head.  He  still  presides 
over  eighteen  public-houses  in  London 
alone." 

Old  Weller,  in  ricJcirick,  maiTicd  the 
hostess  of  the  "  Marquis  of  Granby"  at 
Dorking. 

Grand  (French). 

Le  Grand  Corneille.  Corneille,  the 
French  dramatist  (1G06-1G84). 

le  Grand  Dauph'in.  Louis,  son  of 
Louis  XIV.  (1661-1711). 

Jai  Grande  Mademoiselle.  TheDuchesse 
de  Montpensier,  daughter  of  Gaston,  Due 
d'Orleans,  and  cousin  of  Louis  XIV. 

Ja'  Grand  Monarijue.  Louis  XIV., 
also  called  "The  Baboon"  (1638,  1643- 
171.5). 

Le  Grand  Tan.    Voltaire  (1696-1778). 

Monsieur  le  Grand.  The  Grand 
Equerry  of  France  in  the  reign  of  Louis 
XIV. ,  etc. 

Grandee.  In  Spain,  a  nobleman  of 
the  highest  rank,  who  has  the  privilege  of 
I'cmaiuing  covered  in  the  king's  presence. 

Grand  Alliance.  Signed  May  12th, 
16S'J,  between  England,  Germany,  and 
the  States  General,  subsequently  also  by 
Spain  and  Savoy,  to  prevent  the  union 
of  France  and  Spain. 

Grand  Lama.  The  object  of  wor- 
ship in  Thibet  and  Mongolia.  The  word 
lama  in  the  Tangutanese  dialect  means 
"mother  of  souls."  It  is  the  repre- 
sentative of  the  Shigemooni,  the  highest 
god. 

Grande  Passion  {The).    Love. 

"Tliisis  sc:u-ccl\  Milli.iriit,  ....  to  supjil.v  tlie 
element  ....  so  iiiili>,i«Mis,ihle  t(i  tl)c  existence 
ul -A  qrande  iiassiuii."— ..Vii(c(rtii(/i  Ctniarij  tFel)- 
i-iuii-y,  is'J-',  p.  :;uo. 

Grandison  (Sir  Charles).  The  union 
of  a  Christian  and  a  gentleman .  Richard- 
son's  novel  so  called.  Sir  Walter  Scott 
calls  Sir  Charles  "  the  faultless  monster 
that  the  world  ne'er  saw."  Eobert 
Nelson,  reputed  author  of  the  ll'hole 
Duty  of  Man,  was  the  prototype. 

Grandison  Cromwell    Lafayette. 

Grandison    Cromwell    was    the    witty 


Grandmother 


545 


Grass 


uickname  given  by  Mirabeau  to  Lafay- 
ette, meaniug  thereby  that  he  had  all  the 
ambition  of  a  Cromwell  in  his  heart,  but 
wanted  to  appear  before  men  as  a  Sii' 
Charles  Graudison. 

Grandmother.  J///  grfi)i(h)iothcy''s 
review,  tlie  British  licvicw.  Lord  Byron 
said,  iu  a  sort  of  jest,  "  I  bribed  mij 
(jramhnother''s  review.''''  The  editor  of 
the  British  called  him  to  account,  and 
this  gave  the  poet  a  tine  opportunity  of 
pointing  the  battery  of  his  satire  against 
the  periodical.     {Bon  Jnaii.) 

Grane  (1  syl.).  To  strangle,  throttle 
(Anglo-Saxon,  ijri/i>). 

Grange.  Properly  the  (jrnniim  (gra- 
nary) or  farm  of  a  monastery,  where 
the  com  was  kejit  in  store.  In  Lincoln- 
shire and  other  northern  counties  any 
lone  farm  is  so  called. 

M(iri «))((,  of  the  Moated  Grange,  is  the 
title  of  a  poem  by  Tennyson,  suggested 
by  the  character  of  Mariana  iu  Shake- 
sjieare's  Measure  for  Measure. 

'.'  Houses  attached  to  monasteries 
where  rent  was  jjaid  iu  grain  were  also 
called  granges. 

"  Till  thou  return,  the  Court  I  will  exchancre 
For  some  loor  oortatre,  or  some  country  ^'rant'e." 
IJiiiyton  :  Lady  Geraldine  to  h'arl  of  Surrey. 

Grangerise.  Having  obtained  a  copy 
ofthcpoeVs  ivorhs,  he  proeeeded  at  onee 
to  Grangerise  them.  Grangerisation  is 
the  addition  of  all  sorts  of  things  directly 
and  indirectly  bearing  on  the  book  iu 
question,  illustrating  it,  connected  with 
it  or  its  author,  or  even  the  author's 
family  and  correspondents.  It  includes 
autograph  letters,  caricatures,  prints, 
broadsheets,  biographical  sketches,  anec- 
dotes, scandals,  press  notices,  parallel 
passages,  and  any  other  sort  of  matter 
which  can  be  got  together  as  an  olla 
podrida  for  the  matter  in  hand.  The 
word  is  from  the  Kev.  J.  Granger  (1710- 
1776).  Pronounce  Grain-jer-ise.  {Sec 
BowDLERiSE. )  There  are  also  Granger- 
ist,  Grangerism,  Grangerisation,  etc. 

Grangousier  (4  syl.).  King  of  Uto'- 
pia,  who  married,  in  ''the  vigom"  of  his 
old  age,"  Gargamelle,  daughter  of  the 
king  of  the  Pai-paillons,  and  became  tlie 
father  of  Gargantua,  the  giant.  He  is 
described  as  a  man  in  his  dotage,  whose 
delight  was  to  draw  scratches  on  the 
hearth  with  a  biu'nt  stick  while  watch- 
ing the  broiling  of  his  chestnuts.  When 
told  of  the  invasion  of  Picrochole,  King 
of  Lerne,  he  exclaimed,  "Alas!  alas! 
do  I  dream?  Can  it  be  true?"  and 
began  calling  ou  all  the  saints  of  the 

35 


calendar.  He  then  sent  to  expostulate 
with  Picrochole,  and,  seeing  this  would 
not  do,  tried  what  bribes  by  way  of 
reparation  would  effect.  In  the  mean- 
time he  sent  to  Paris  for  his  son,  who 
soon  came  to  his  rescue,  utterly  defeated 
Picrochole,  and  put  his  army  to  full 
rout.  Some  say  he  is  meant  i'or  Louis 
XII.,  but  this  is  most  improbable,  not 
only  because  there  is  very  little  re- 
semblance between  the  two,  "but  because 
he  was  king  of  Utopia,  some  consider- 
able distance  from  Paris.  Motteux 
thinks  the  academy  figure  of  this  old 
Priam  was  John  d'Albret,  King  of  Na- 
varre. He  certainly  was  no  true  Catho- 
lic, for  he  says  in  chap.  xlv.  they  called 
him  a  heretic  for  declaiming  against  the 
saints.     {liahelais  :  Gargantua,  i.  'i.) 

Grani  (2  syl.).  Siegfried's  horse, 
whose  swiftness  exceeded  that  of  the 
winds.     {See  Hoese.) 

Granite  City  {The).    Aberdeen. 

Granite  Redoubt  {Tht^.  The  gren- 
adiers of  the  Consular  Guard  were  so 
called  at  the  battle  of  Marengo  in  1800, 
because  when  the  French  had  given  way 
they  formed  into  a  square,  stood  like 
flints  against  the  Austrians,  and  stopped 
all  further  advance. 

Granite  State  {The).  New  Hamp- 
shire is  so  called,  because  the  mountain 
parts  are  chiefly  granite. 

Grantorto.  A  giant  who  withheld 
the  inheritance  of  Ire'ua  {Ireland).  He 
is  meant  for  the  genius  of  the  Irish  re- 
bellion of  1580,  slain  by  Sir  Art'egal. 
{Spenser:  Faerie  Queene,Y.)  (/S'ce Giants.) 

Grapes.  The  grapes  are  sour.  You 
disparage  it  because  it  is  beyond  your 
reach.  The  allusion  is  to  the  well-known 
fable  of  the  fox,  which  tried  in  vain  to 
get  at  some  grapes,  but  when  he  found 
they  were  beyond  his  reach  went  away 
saying,  "  I  see  they  are  sour." 

Wikl  grapes.  What  has  been  trans- 
lated "  vrild  grapes"  (Isaiah  v.  2-4)  the 
Arabs  call  "  wolf-gi-apes."  It  is  the 
fruit  of  the  deadly  nightshnde,  which  is 
black  and  shining.  This  plant  is  very 
common  in  the  vineyards  of  Palestine. 

Grass.  Gone  to  grass.  Dead.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  grass  which  grows  over 
the  dead.  Also,  "  Gone  to  rusticate," 
the  allusion  being  to  a  horse  which  is 
sent  to  grass  when  unfit  for  work. 

Not  to  let  the  grass  grow  under  one's 
feet.    To  be  very  active  and  energetic. 

"Captain  Cuttle  held  on  at  a  great  pace,  and 
allowed  no  prass  to  grow  under  his  feet."— 
Dichens:  Dovlley  and  Son, 


Grass  "Widow 


546 


Grave 


To  f/ive  grass.  To  confess  yoiu'self 
vanquished. 

To  be  knocked  down  in  a  pugilistic 
encounter  is  to  "  go  to  grass ;  "  to  have 
the  sack  is  also  to  go  to  grass,  as  a  cow 
which  is  no  longer  fit  for  milking  is  scut 
to  pasture. 

A  grass-hand  is  a  compositor  who  fills 
a  temporary  vacancy. 

Grass  Widow  was  anciently  an  un- 
married woman  who  has  had  a  child, 
but  now  the  word  is  used  for  a  wife 
temporarily  parted  from  her  husband. 
The  word  means  a  grace  widow,  a  widow 
by  courtesy.  (In  French,  rcitvc  dc  grace  ; 
in  Latin,  v'ldaca  cle  gratia ;  a  woman 
divorced  or  separated  from  her  husband 
by  a  dispensation  of  the  Pope,  and  not 
by  death ;  hence,  a  woman  temporally 
separated  from  her  husband.) 

"Gnice-wiiiow  ('grass-widow')  is  a  ti'rni  fur 
one  wbo  beccimos  a  widow  l>y  f-'racc  or  ftivovir, 
not  of  necessity,  as  liy  doafli.  The  term  oritrin- 
ated  in  tlic  earlier  aires  of  lOurn]  eaii  eivilisalion, 
■when  divorces  M|.re  ^-ranted  [iMily]  hy  antliority 
of  tlie  Cathulic  Chureb."— i/d/Ki/iej'O/is  iVcfc.-.- 
(1876;. 

"  The  subjoined  explanation  of  the 
tei'm  may  be  added  in  a  book  of  "  Phrase 
and  Fable." 

During  the  gold  mania  in  California 
a  man  would  not  unfrequently  put  his 
wife  and  children  to  board  with  some 
family  while  he  went  to  the  "  diggins." 
This  he  called  "putting  his  wife  to 
grass,"  as  we  put  a  horse  to  grass  when 
not  wanted  or  unfit  for  work. 

Grasshopper,  as  the  sign  of  a  grocer, 
is  the  crest  of  Sir  Thomas  Gresham,  the 
merchant  grocer.  The  Royal  Gresham 
Exchange  used  to  be  profusely  deco- 
rated with  grasshoppers,  and  the  brass 
one  on  the  eastern  part  of  the  j)resent 
edifice  is  the  one  which  escaped  the  fires 
of  1666  and  1838. 

V  There  is  a  tale  that  Sir  Thomas  was 
a  foundling,  and  that  a  woman,  attracted 
by  the  chii-ping  of  a  grasshopper,  dis- 
covered the  outcast  and  brought  him  up. 
Except  as  a  tale,  this  solution  of  the 
combination  is  worthless.  Grcs  =  grass 
(Anglo-Saxon,  grcrs),  and  no  doubt 
grasshoi:)per  is  an  heraldic  rebus  on  the 
name.  Puns  and  rebuses  were  at  one 
time  common  enough  in  heraldi-}',  and 
often  very  far-fetched. 

Grasshopper  {The).  A  compound 
of  seven  animals.  (Anglo-Saxon,  gras- 
hoppa.) 

"  It  has  the  head  of  a  horse,  the  neck  of  an  o\, 
the  wings  of  a  dragon,  the  feet  of  a  camel,  the 
tail  of  a  serpent,  the  horns  of  a  stag,  and  the  body 
of  a  scorpion."— Cht/Jhs;  Oriental  Talcs  CVlie  Fvvr 
Talismans). 


Grassmarket.  At  one  time  the 
place  of  execution  in  Edinburgh. 

"I  like  naue  o'  your  scrnions  that  end  in  a 
psalm  at  the  Grassmarket."—  tiir  Walter  Scutt : 
Old  Murtaliti/,  chap.  x.\xv. 

Grassum  or  Gersome.  A  fine  in 
money  i)aid  by  a  lessee  either  ou  taking 
possession  of  his  lease  or  ou  renewing  it. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  grcrsKiii,  a  treasure.) 

Gratia'no.  Brother  of  the  Vene- 
tian senator,  Brabantio.  {Shakes^jcarc : 
Olhello.) 

Also  a  character  in  The  Mcrchaiii 
of  Venice,  who  "talks  an  infinite  deal 
of  nothing,  more  than  any  man  in  all 
Venice."  He  is  one  of  Bassanio's  friends, 
and  when  the  latter  marries  Portia,  Gra- 
tiano  marries  Nerissa,  Poi'tia's  maid. 

Grave.  To  rarrg  au-ag  the  weal  from 
the  grave.  The  Greeks  and  Persians 
used  to  mtike  feasts  at  certain  seasons 
(when  the  dead  were  supposed  to  return 
to  their  graves),  and  leave  the  fragments 
of  their  banquets  on  the  tombs  {Elce- 
mox'gnam  Kcpid'cri  pat'ris). 

Ji'ith  one  foot  in  the  grave.  At  the 
very  verge  of  death.  The  exjiression 
was  used  by  Jidian,  who  .said  he  would 
"  leai-n  sometliing  even  if  he  had  one 
foot  in  the  grave."  The  parallel  (Jreek 
phrase  is,  "With  one  foot  in  the  ferry- 
boat," meaning  Charon's. 

Grave.  Solemn,  sedate,  and  serious 
in  look  and  manner.  This  is  the  Latin 
gravis,  grave  ;  but  "  grave,"  n  jAace  of 
interment,  is  tlie  Anglo-Saxon  grecf,  a 
pit ;  verb,  graf-an,  to  dig. 

More  grave  than  tcise.  "  Tcrtius  c  ccclo 
cecldit  Cato.^'' 

Grave-diggers  {Ilainlct).  "If  the 
water  come  to  the  man  ..."  Tlie  legal 
case  referred  to  by  Shakespeare  oc- 
curred in  the  fifth  year  of  Queen  Eliza- 
beth's reign,  called  Hales  r.  Petit,  stated 
at  length  in  Xotcs  a)>d  Queries,  vol.  viii. 
p.  r23  (first  series). 

Grave  Maurice.  A  public-house 
sign.  The  head  of  the  [Graf  Moritz], 
Prince  of  Orange,  and  Captain-General 
of  the  United  Provinces  (1.567-162.3). 
{Hotten  :  Booh  of  Signs.) 

Grave  Searchers.  Monkir  and 
Nakir,  so  called  by  the  Mahometans. 
{Ucklrg,  vol.  ii.)     {See  Monkie.) 

Grave  as  a  Judge.  Sedate  and 
serious  in  look  and  manner. 

Grave  as  an  Owl.  Having  an  asjiect 
of  solemnity  and  wisdom. 


Gravelled 


U7 


Great    Harry- 


Gravelled.  Z';«  rcf/ularJij  gravelled. 
Non-plussed,  like  a  ship  ruu  agrouud 
aud  uuable  to  move. 

"  When  you  were  Rfavellotl  fov  lack  of  iiiiiltcr." 
^.Shakespeare:  As  You  Like  It,  w.  1. 

Gray.  The  authoress  of  Auhl  Bohhi 
Grai/  was  Lady  Auue  Lindsay,  after- 
Wards  Lady  Barnard  (1750- 182.)). 

Gray  Cloak.  Au  aldermau  above 
the  chair ;  so  called  because  his  proper 
costume  is  a  cloak  furred  with  graj'  amis. 
(IIiiftoH  :   Kcw   View  of  Lo)ido)i,  intro.) 

Gray  Man's  Path.  A  siugular 
fissure  in  the  greenstone  prccijjice  near 
Ballycastle,  in  Ireland. 

Gray's  Inn  (London)  was  the  inn  or 

mansion  of  tlie  Lords  Gray. 

Grayham's.  {See  Geahame's  Dyke.) 

Graysteel.  The  sword  of  Kol,  fatal 
to  the  owner.  It  passed  to  several  hands, 
but  always  brought  ill-luck.  (leelandic 
Edda.)     (.SVe  Fatal  Gifts  ;  Swords.) 

Greal  (Sen/).  Proi^erly  divided,  it  is 
sniig-yeal,  the  real  blood  of  Christ,  or 
the  wiue  used  iu  the  last  supper,  which 
Christ  said  was  "  His  blood  of  the  New 
Testament,  shed  for  the  remission  of 
sin."  According  to  tradition,  a  j)art  of 
this  wine-blood  was  preserved  by  Joseph 
of  Arimatha;a,  iu  the  cup  called  tlie  Saint 
Graal.  When  Merlin  made  the  Round 
Table,  he  left  a  ijlace  for  the  Holy  Graal. 
(Latin,  /S'ff«^[uis]  lica!\is].)  (.SV^Gbaal.) 

Grease  One's  Fist  or  Palm  {To). 
To  give  a  bribe. 

"  Grease  my  fist  with  a  tester  or  two,  ;iiiil  ye 
shall  find  it  in  your  pennyworths."— yiuir/w  ;  The 
Yinjiii  Widow,  iv.  1.  p.  40. 

"  .v.  You  must  oyl  it  first. 
C.  I  understand  you— 
Greaze  him  i'  the  fist." 

Cartwright :  Ordinary  (IiViI). 

Greasy  Sunday.  Don/hnea  carnelcvalc 
■ — i.e.  Quinquagesima  Sunday.  {SceJiw 
Cange,  vol.  iii.  p.  196,  col.  2.) 

Great  {The). 

Abbas  I.,  8hah  of  Persia.    (Lwr,  15S5-16i'S.) 

Albeutus  M.iG>'us,  the  schoolman.  (1193- 
1280.) 

.\LFoyso  Iir.,  King  of  Astunas  and  Leon.  (84S, 
S66-9U'.) 

Alfred,  of  England.    (849, 871-901.) 
;  Alexander,  of  Macedon.    (b.c.  .s.i6, 340-3:'3.) 
!   St.  Basil,  Bishop  of  Ca^sare'a.    (.329-379.) 
^  C.\SUTE,  of  England  and  Denmark.    (995, 1014- 
1036.) 

CASIMIR  III.,  of  Poland.    (1309, 133.3-1370.) 

Charles  I.,  Emperor  of  Germany,  called 
Charlemagne.    (742,  764-814.) 

Charles  III.  (or  II.),  Uuke  of  Lorraine.  (1513- 
1608.) 

CHARLES  Emmasuel  I,,  Duke  of  Savoy.  (1562- 
1630.) 

CoxsTAKTiXE  I.,  Emperor  of  Rome.  (272, 306- 
337.) 

CouPBRiN,  (.Francis),  the  French  musical  com- 
poser.   (1668-1733.) 


Douglas,  (Archibald,  the  great  Karl  of  Aligns, 
alsn  culled  Bcll-the-Cat  [9.1'.]).    (Died  1514.) 
Feudinasu  I.,  of  Castile  and  Leou.    (Reisjued 

llC4-llw;5.) 

FuEOEiucK  WiM.i  \M.  lOlcc-lor  of  Brandenburg,', 
suru.-nued  T/ic '.'iMi/  Kl.ilnr.     (I(;i.'ii,  1i14ii-Ii;ns.1 

FRKOKIUIK  II.,  nl'  I'llis-IM.      (1712,  171II-17HIJ,) 

Grei:oi!y  I,,  i'oiic.    i,,n,  ..■.iii-i;ii4.) 

Henri  IV.,  ol  Frame.    (\:<:>:;.  l.-„s.i-ir,iii.) 

Heri.id  AiiRllTA  1.,  Telran-li  of  Al.ili-'lie,  who 

Iielieadcil  .Tames  (Acts  xii.).    (  Diril  .\.ii.  44.) 
I!i.\ii-\vr.N-'iKt:.  ilic   suNcrci^'ii    uf  ilii' Han  dv- 

n:isi\' ..f  Cliiiri.     H.'  Ini'lirHlr  tl].>   ii-,'  mI'  -old  and 

SllMT  Vo-^el-  Ml   lllr   yAV.XVr.  :ill,l    ■AY\'U,\  IKllcd  tile 
limncv  «-llirh  lllrv  fi'lclieil  In  1  llr  :r,-i<(l  I'uor,    (B.C. 
2oiM79-)57.) 
John-  U.,  of  Portugal.    (145,5, 1481-1495.) 
.TlsTIM.\X  I.     (48a,  527-5l>.5.) 
Lewi.s  I.,  of  Hungary.    (1326,  1342-1381.) 
Lons  II.,  Prince  of   Conde,  Due  d'Enghieu. 

(11121-10,86.) 

Loi  I.S  XIV.,  called  Lc  Grand  ilonarquc.    (16S8, 

1643-1714.) 
Mahojiet  n„  Sultan  of  the  Turks,    (14,30, 145I- 

1481.) 
M,\xijiiMA>',    Duke    of    Bavaria,    victor    of 

Pr.mue.     (157,3-1651.) 
('(Js.Mo  or  Medici,  first  Grand  Duke  of  Tuscany. 

(15l',i.  1537-1574.) 
(ioNZALEs  Pedro  de  JIkxdoza,  qreat  Cardinal 

of  Spain,  statesman  and  sclinlar.    {l.'io:M575.) 
Nicholas  1.,  Pope  'vv.-is  Top.,  fnim  ,s5s-sii7). 
Otho  I.,  Empeviir  of  Gi'nii.aii.\ .    ('.112,  '.i:iii-973.) 
Peter  1.,  of  Russia.    (1672,  16,^9-1725.) 
Pierre  1 1 1.,  of  Arason.    (1239, 1276-12,s,5,) 
Skorza  (GidcoJHo),  the  Italian  general. j    (1369- 

1424.) 
Sapor  or  SH.vn-rouR.   the  ninth  king  of  the 

Sassan'ide.s  (q.r.).     (210,  .3ii7-379.) 
SKilsMUXD.  Kiiigof  Pidand.    (1466,1506-1,548.) 
Theo'doric,  King  of  the  Ostrogoths.    (454,475- 

526,) 
Theodo'siits  I.,  Emiieror.    (.346. 378-395.) 
M.VTTBo  ViscoxTi,  Lord  of  Milan.    (1250,  1295- 

1,322.) 
Vladimir,  Grand  Duke  of  Russia.    (97.3-1014.) 
Waldemar  1.,  of  Denmark,    (1131, 1157-1181.) 

Great  Bullet-head.  George  Cadou- 
dal,  leader  of  the  CIiohhhs,  born  at 
Brech,  in  Mor'bihan.     (1769-1801.) 

Great  Captain.     {Sec  Captain.) 

Great  Cham  of  Literature.      So 

Smollett  calls  Dr.  Johnson.  (1709-1784.) 

Great  Commoner  {The).  WilHam 
Pitt  (17.59-1806). 

Great  Cry  and  Little  Wool.  Much 
ado  about  nothing.     {'See  Cry.) 

Great  Dauphin.     {See  Gbaa-d.) 

Great  Elector  {The).  Frederick 
William,  Elector  of  Brandenbui-g  (1620, 
1640-1688). 

Great  Go.  A  familiar  term  for  a  uni- 
versity examiuatiou  for  degrees :  the 
"previous  examination"  being  the 
"Little  Go." 

"Great  Go "  is  usually  shortened  into 
"Greats." 

"  Since  I  have  been  readinc  .  .  .  for  my  greats, 
I  have  had  to  t-'o  into  all  sorts  of  rleep  books."— 
Grant  Allen:  'The  Backslider,  part  iii. 

Great  Harry  {The).  A  man-of-war 
built  by  Henry  VII.,  the  first  of  any 
size  constructed  iu  England.  It  was 
burut  in  1.553.     {See  Heney  Grace  de 

DiEU.) 


Great  Head 


.-,4S 


Grecian 


Great  Head.  Malcolm  III.,  of  Scot- 
laud  ;  also  called  C'aiiDiorr,  which  meaus 
the  same  thiug.     (Keigued  1057-1093.) 

"  M.-ilciilni  TIL,  ciilli'il  Ciuiiniiro  nr  Great  Head." 
—.Si/-  ir.  Sviitl  :  Titles  <if  a  Grautl/iiiher,  i.  4. 

Great  Men  (Social  status  of), 

.I'lsor,  :i  iiiainiiiiitlc'il  sl:ivo. 
AiiKWiiiiiiri'  {S,r  lurhuril).  a  liarbor. 
liKAcoNsKiKi.ii  (Lnril).  a  siilicilcir's  clerk. 
Hi.(»iM|.||.;i.ii,  a  i'..lil,lcr.  sun  (if  a  lailiir. 
Hi  s-i  \\.  a  liavclliirj  linker. 
nrKN>,a  -niiLrcr,  sun  iif  a  iilnn.i-'liniaii. 

(■  1   1.M..X.  :i   cnwlu'l-ll. 

I'Ma  \  N  I  1^.  a  i-cuniniin  snlilicr. 

Ci  \  II I  .  :i  I'liiiiL'Innan,  snn  of  a  farm  lalionrcr. 

Ci  M   nr  l.<  iKUAiNK,  a  paslr.vi-dnk. 

Ci'i  IM  r.\  -   S(jii  (if  a  wcavt'r. 

CiMiK  II  ',,i:hiiii),  son  (if  a  linsliamlnian. 

(•i;(on\  Ki.i,,  sun  of  a  Iircnvor, 

Ci  NM.M.iiAM  (Atlau),  a  stonemas(jn,  son  of  a 
ln'asanl. 

Defok,  a  hosier,  son  of  a  liutc-ber. 

Demostiiexe.s,  son  of  a  cntler. 

Dickens,  a^  uewspaiier  roiiorter  ;  father  the 
same. 

Ei.iiox  (Zord),  son  of  a  coal-broker. 

Faraday  (Michiicl),  a  hookliinder. 

Fekcu.son  (./((Hies),  the  astronoinor,  sou  of  a 
day-lahoiirer, 

FiiAXKi.i.v.  a  jonrne.vinan  in-inler,  son  of  a 
talldW-cliaiKller. 

Hai!oi!I;avi;s,  the  machinist,  a  iioor  weaver. 

Hooo,  a  shepherd,  son  of  a  Scotch  iieasivnt. 

UdMKit,  a  fanner  s  son  (s;iid  to  have  Logged  his 
hrea(U. 

HiiiiAci':,  snn  of  a  manumitted  slave. 

HdvvAiiii  {.loliiO,  a  grocer's  iiiiprcntice,  son  <if 
a  Irailesiuan. 

Kkan  (I'aI III micix  son  of  a  stage-cariienter  in  a 
liiiliiir  theatre. 

,I<iNS(iN  (,/;.//"),  a  1  rickhi.ver. 

Lati.\ii;u,  ISisliop  (if  Wercester,  son  of  a  small 
farmer. 

LuciAX,  a  Eciiliitor.  son  of  ii  poor  tradesman. 

JIoxiv  Cr'fiKcr.fO,  a  volnuteor. 

Opie  t./oftH).  sou  of  a  poor  earionter  iu  Corn- 
wall. 

Pacxe  (T7io?»o,i),  a  stas'-maker,  son  of  a  Quaker. 

l'oi{,sox  Uiicluinl),  sou  of  a  parish  clerk  in 
^(■rfolk. 

RiciiAiiusox,  a  bookseller  and  printer,  son  of  a 
joiner. 

SriAKEsrEAUE.  son  of  a  wool-stapler. 

SrEfiiEXsox  (.George),  sou  of  a  tlreman  at  a 
colliery. 

Viuoir,,  son  of  a  porter. 

Watt  CJavie.^),  improver  of  the  steam  engine. 
Son  of  a  block-maker. 
.   WAsniX(;r(ix,  a  farmer. 

Woi.sEV,  Sen  of  a  lilllcllT. 

■.■  And  hundreds  n:o;e. 

Great  Men  {Jf'iirs  of).  (Sec  under 
Wives.) 

Great  Mogul.  The  title  of  the  chief 
of  the  Mofijul  Emjiire,  which  came  to  an 
eud  in  18U6. 

Great  Mother.  The  earth.  When 
Junius  Bnitus  ,-ind  the  sons  of  Tarquin 
asked  the  Delphic  Oracle  who  was  to 
succeed  Superbus  on  the  throne  of 
Rome,  they  received  for  answer,  "He 
who  shall  first  kiss  his  mother."  While 
the  two  princes  hastened  home  to  fulfil 
what  they  thought  was  meant,  Brutus 
fell  to  the  earth,  and  exclaimed,  "  Thus 
kiss  I  thee,  O  earth,  the  gi-eat  mother 
of  us  all." 


Great  Perhaps  (The).  So  Rabelais 
(li8o-l;3');5)  described  a  future  state. 

Great  Scott  or  Scot !  A  mitigated 
form  of  oath.  The  initial  letter  of  the 
German  Uott  is  changed  into  Sc. 

"'(4reat  Scott!  .  .  .  Beg  pardon!'  ejaculated 
Silas,-  astouiKled."— .1.  C.  Uaiiler:  lianii  Muiilez, 
blink  iv.  chap.  \ix. 

Great  Sea  (TIi<).  So  the  Mediter- 
ranean Sea  was  called  by  the  ancient 
Greeks  and  Romans. 

Great  Unkno-wn  (7'/^').  Sir  Walter 
Scotf,  Avhii  published  the  U'((rerlctj  Nurds 
auonynuiuslv.    (1771-1832.) 

Great  Unwashed  ( Thr).  The  artisnn 
class.  Ibirko  first  used  tht;  comi)ound, 
but  Sir  Walter  Scott  popukirised  it. 

Great  Wits  Jump.  Think  alike ; 
tally.  Thus  Shakespeare  says,  "  It 
jumps  with  my  huinoui'."  (1  Ilcniij  IV., 
iv.  2.) 

Great  Wits  to  Madness  nearly 
are  Allied.  (l'"l"'-)  Seneca  says, 
"  Xiilluni  iinq/iiKiii  iiiffci/i/nii  absque  iiiix- 
iura  deincnticc  est." 

Greatest.  T/ic  ffvratest  happiness  of 
the  greatest  number.  Jeremy  Benthara's 
political  axiom.  (Libert i/  of  the  I'eople. ) 
(1821.) 

Greatheart  (Mr>).  The  guide  of 
Christiana  and  her  family  to  the  Celestial 
City.     {Ihnnjan  :  Fttijri)n''s  Trogress,  ii.) 

Greaves  (Sir  Launeeht).  A  sort  of 
Don  Qui.xote,  who,  in  the  reign  of  George 
II.,  wandered  over  England  to  redress 
wrongs,  discourage  moral  evils  not  re- 
cognisable by  law,  degrade  immodesty, 
punish  ingratitude,  and  reform  society. 
His  Sancho  Panza  was  an  old  sea  captain. 
(Smollett :  Adrentures  of  Sir  Launeeht 
Greaves.) 

Grebenski  Cossacks.  So  called 
from  the  word  ijrebcn  (ii  comli).  This 
title  w;is  conferred  Tipon  them  by 
Czar  Ivan  I.,  because,  in  his  camfiaign 
against  the  Tartars  of  the  Caucasus,  they 
scaled  a  mountain  fortified  with  sharp 
spurs,  sloping  down  from  its  summit, 
and  projecting  horizontally,  like  a  comb. 
(iJuueau  :  liussia.) 

Grecian  Bend  (The).  An  affecta- 
tion in  walking  assumed  by  English 
ladies  in  1875.  The  silUness  spread  to 
America  and  other  countries  which 
affect  passing  oddities  of  fashion. 

Grecian  Coffee-house,  in  Devereux 
Court,  the  oldest  in  London,  was  origin- 
ally opened  by  Pasqua,  a  Greek  slave, 
brought  to  England  in  1652  by  Daniel 


Grecian 


540 


Greek 


Edwards,  a  Turkey  merchant.  This 
Greek  was  the  first  to  teach  the  metliod 
of  roasting  coffee,  to  introduce  the  drink 
into  tlie  island,  and  to  call   himself  a 

"  coffee-man." 

Grecian  Stairs.  A  corruption  of 
grci'xiiKj  uta'tys.  Greesings  (steps)  still 
survives  in  the  architectural  word  ffircit, 
and  in  the  compound  word  dc-gvccx. 
There  is  still  on  the  hill  at  Lincoln  a 
flight  of  stone  steps  called  "  Grecian 
slairs.'" 

"P.tiil  stood  on  the  Kveezcti  [i.e.  stairs]."— 
^yi(■liffe:  Acts  xxi.in. 

Greedy  (.Tiixticc).  In  A  Xew  Wcdj  to 
Fiuj  Old  l)chts,  by  Massinger. 

Greegrees.  Charms.  (Africcoi  sii- 
pcrstitiun.) 

A  (jfcc-cjvcc  man.  Or.e  who  sells 
charms. 

Greek  {Tliv).  Manuel  Alva'rez  {d 
Gricqo),  the  Spanish  sculptor  (1727- 
1797). 

AU  Greek  to  me.  Quito  unintelligible  ; 
an  unknown  tongue  or  language.  Casca 
says,  "  For  mine  own  part,  it  was  all 
Greek  to  me."  {^Shakespeare:  Julias 
Ctesar,  i.  2.)     "  Cest  da^Grec  pour  moi.'" 

Last  of  t/ie  Greeks.  Philopcri'men,  of 
Mcgalop'olis,  whose  great  object  wa,s  to 
infuse  into  the  Achfcaiis  a  military  spirit, 
and  estabHsh  their  indepeudence  (b.c. 
2;5'2-183). 

To  plat/  the  Greek  (Latin, //rrrrar/).  To 
indulge  in  one's  cups.  The  Greeks  have 
always  been  considered  a  luxurious  race, 
fond  of  creature-comforts.  Thus  Cicero, 
in  his  oration  against  "  Verres,"  says: 
^^  Discum'bitur ;  Jit  sermo  inter  cos  et 
invita'tio,  ut  Grccco  more  bibere'tur : 
hospes  horta'tur,  poscunt  majo'ribus 
poe'ulis  ;  cclebra'tur  omnium  scrmo'ne 
Icctitiaque  conviv'ium."  The  law  in  Gi-eek 
banquets  was  E  pithi  e  apithl  (Quaff, 
or  be  off  I)  (Cut  in,  or  cut  off!).  In 
2'roilas  and  Cressida  Shakespeare  makes 
Pan'darus,  bantering  Helen  for  her 
love  to  Tro'ilus,  say,  "  I  think  Helen 
loves  him  better  than  Paris  ;  "  to  which 
Cressida,  whose  wit  is  to  parry  and  per- 
vert, replies,  "  Then  she's  a  merry  Greek 
indeed,"  insinuating  that  she  was  a 
"woman  of  pleasure."  {Troilus  and 
Cressida,  i.  2.) 

Un  Grec  (French).  A  cheat.  Towards 
the  Close  of  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV.,  a 
knight  of  Greek  origin,  named  Apoulos, 
was  caught  in  the  very  act  of  cheating  at 
play,  even  in  the  palace  of  the  grand 
monarque.  He  was  sent  to  the  galleys, 
and  the  nation  which  gave  him  birth 


became  from  that  time  a  byword  for 
swindler  and  blackleg. 

Un  potaeje  a  la  Greeque.  Insipid  soup ; 
Spartan  broth. 

When  Greek  joins  Greek,  then  is  the  tug 
of  icar.  When  two  men  or  armies  of 
imdoubted  courage  fight,  the  contest  will 
be  very  severe.  The  line  is  from  a  verse 
in  the  drama  of  Ale.rander  the  Great, 
slightly  altered,  and  the  reference  is  to 
the  obstinate  resistance  of  the  Greek 
cities  to  Pliilip  and  Alexander,  the  Mace- 
donian kings. 

"  When  Greeks  joined  (ireeks,  then  was  the  tug 
of  war."  yalh II II ill  Lee. 

In  French  the  word  '' Grcc''^  some- 
times means  icisdom,  as — 

//  est  Grec  en  eela.  He  has  great 
talent  that  way. 

//  n''est  pas  grand  Grec.  He  is  no 
great  conjurer. 

Greek  Calends.  Never.  To  defer 
anything  to  the  Greek  Calends  is  to  defer 
it  sine  die.  There  were  no  calends  in  the 
Greek  months.  The  Romans  used  to  pay 
rents,  taxes,  bills,  etc.,  on  the  calends, 
and  to  defer  paying  them  to  the  "  Greek 
Calends  "  was  virtually  to  rejnidiate 
them.     (See  Never.) 

"  will  you  SI  eak  of  your  i>;\Ury  prose  (hiintrs  in 
niv   prcsiTicc,   xvlji'Si'    f.'i-e:ii    historical   jioeni,  in 

Iwcniy  I ks,  wiih  noii's  in  iiroportion,  lias  hecu 

josiponcil  -loUira'cMs  Kalcmlas' ?"— ,V/r  W.Scott: 
TliJ  j:,'lrftli,'d  (Intro, hiclioio. 

Greek  Church  includes  the  church 
within  the  Ottoman  Empire  subject  to 
the  patriarch  of  Constantinople,  the 
church  in  the  kingdom  of  Greece,  and 
the  Eusso-Greek  Chui'ch.  The  Roman 
and  Greek  Churches  formally  separated 
in  1054.  The  Greek  Church  dissents 
from  the  doctrine  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
proceeds  from  the  Father  and  the  Son 
(Filioque),  rejects  the  Papal  claim  to 
supremacy,  and  administers  the  eucharist 
in  both  kinds  to  the  laity  ;  but  the 
two  churches  agree  in  their  belief  of 
seven  sacraments,  trausubstantiation, 
the  adoration  of  the  Host,  confession, 
absolution,  penance,  prayers  for  the 
dead,  etc. 

Greek  Commentator.  Fernan  Nu- 
nen  de  Giiziiian,  tlie  great  promoter  of 
Greek  literature  in  Sjjain.     (1470-1553.) 

Greek  Cross.  Same  shape  as  St. 
George's  cross  (-f-).  The  Latin  cross 
has  the  upright  one -third  longer  than 
the  cross-beam  (t). 

St.  George's  Cross  is  seen  en  our 
banners,  where  the  crosses  of  St.  An- 
drew and  St.  Patrick  are  combined  with 
it.     {See  Union  Jack.) 


Greek  Fire 


550 


Green  Goose 


Greek  Fire.  A  composition  of  nitre, 
suliAur,  and  naphtha.  Tow  steeped  in 
the  mixture  was  liurled  in  a  blazing 
state  through  tubes,  or  tied  to  arrows. 
The  invention  is  ascribed  to  Calliui'cos, 
of  Heliop'olis,  A.D.  6G8. 

A  very  similar  projectile  was  used  by 
the  Federals  in  tlie  great  American  con- 
test, especially  at  the  seige  of  Charleston. 

Greek  Gift  {A).  A  treacherous  gift. 
The  reference  is  to  the  Wooden  Horse 
said  to  be  a  gift  or  offering  to  the  gods 
for  a  safe  return  from  Troy,  but  in 
reality  a  ruse  for  the  destruction  of  the 
city.     (.SV(?  Fatal  Gifts.) 

"Timoo  Danaiis  el  dona  fcreiilcs." 

Vii-yil:   yKiieiii,  \\.A9. 

Greek  Life.  A  sound  mind  in  a  sound 
body.     "  3Ieiis  sai/a  iit  vorpore  saiio." 

"This  healtliy  life,  wliiili  was  tlie  (iiopk  life, 
canif  from  kiviiiii','  llif  body  in  yood  liinc."— 
IhiiUi  TiU'iiruph. 

Greek  Trust.  No  trust  at  all. 
"  Graca  fides  "  was  with  the  Eoraans  no 
faith  at  rill.  A  Greek,  in  English  slang, 
means  a  clicat  or  sharper,  and  Greek 
bonds  are  sadly  in  character  with  Chaca 
fides. 

Greeks  in  the  New  Testament  mean 
Hellenists,  or  naturalised  Jews  in  foreign 
countries  ;  those  not  naturalised  were 
called  Aramaean  Jews  in  Syria,  Meso- 
potamia, and  Palestine. 

"I  will  in-aiso  God  tlial.  otir  family  lias  over 
remained  Aramaean  ;  not  one  anujiij,'  us  lias  ever 
b'one  over  lo  the  Hellenists."— £/r?(u<  the  I'iUiriin, 
eliaii.  ii. 

Green.  Yoimg,  fre.sh,  as  (jreen  cJifesr, 
i.e.  cream  cheese,  which  is  eaten  fresh ; 
(/reen  r/oosc,  a  young  or  midsummer 
goose. 

"  If  you  would  fat  preen  Reese,  shut  them  \u^ 
when  they  are  ahout  a  month  old." — Mortimer: 
Hashandry. 

Immature  in  age  or  judgment,  inex- 
perienced, young. 

"  The  text  is  idd,  the  orator  too  green." 

I'iliukeapedre  :  Venus  and  Ailoiiis,  mri. 

Simple,  raw,  easily  imposed  upon ;  a 

greenhorn  (q.v.). 

" '  He  is  80  jollygreen,'  said  Charley."— 2)  if/if»s  : 
OUver  Twist,  chap.  ix. 

Green.  The  imperial  green  of  France 
was  the  old  Merovin'gian  colour  re- 
stored, and  the  golden  bees  are  the 
ornaments  found  on  the  tomb  of  Chil- 
deric,  the  father  of  Clovis,  in  1653.  The 
imperial  colour  of  the  Aztecs  was  green  ; 
the  national  banner  of  Ireland  is  green  ; 
the  field  of  many  American  flags  is 
green,  as  their  Union  Jack,  and  the 
flags  of  the  admiral,  vice-admiral,  rear- 
admiral,  and  commodore  ;  and  that  of 
the  Chinese  militia  is  greeu. 


Green  is  held  unlucky  to  particular 
clans  and  counties  of  Scotland.  The 
Caithness  men  look  on  it  as  fatal, 
because  their  bands  were  clad  in  greeu 
at  the  battle  of  Flodden.  It  is  disliked 
by  all  who  bear  the  name  of  Ogilvy,  and 
is  especially  unlucky  to  the  Grahame 
clan.  One  day,  an  aged  man  of  that 
name  was  thrown  from  liis  horse  in  a 
fox  chase,  and  lie  accounted  for  the 
accident  from  his  having  a  green  lash  to 
his  riding  whip.     {See  Kendal  Green.) 

V  For  its  symbolism,  etc.,  see  under 
Colour?. 

N.B.  There  are  lOG  different  shades 
of  green.     {See  Kendal  Green.) 

Green  Bag.  VhaCs  in  the  ijreen 
hatj  !  What  charge  is  tibout  to  be  pre- 
ferred tigainst  me  ?  The  allusion  is  to 
the  "  Green  Bag  Inquiry  "  {q.v.). 

Green  Bird  {The)  told  everything  a 
jierson  wished  to  know,  and  talked  like 
an  oracle.  {Countess  D'Aidnoij :  Fair 
Star  and  Frinee  Chery.) 

Green  Cloth.  The  Board  of  Green 
Cloth.  A  board  connected  with  the 
royal  household,  having  power  to  cor- 
rect offenders  within  the  verge  of  the 
palace  and  two  hundred  j^ards  bej-ond 
the  gates.  A  warrtint  from  the  board 
must  be  obtained  before  a  servant  of  tlie 
I^alace  can  be  arrested  for  debt.  So 
called  "  because  the  committee  sit  with 
the  steward  of  the  household  at  a  board 
covered  with  a  green  cloth  in  the  count- 
ing-house, as  recorders  and  witnesses  to 
the  truth."  It  existed  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  I.,  and  probably  at  a  still  earlier 
period. 

Green  Dogs.  Any  extinct  race,  like 
that  of  the  Dodo.  Brederode  said  to 
Count  Louis  :  "  I  would  the  whole  race 
of  bishops  and  cardinals  was  extinct, 
like  that  of  green  dogs."  {Motloj  : 
iJuteh  Fiepuhlic,  part  ii.  5.) 

Green  Dragoons  {The).  The  13th 
Dragoons  (wliose  regimental  facings  were 
green).  Now  called  the  13th  Hussars, 
and  the  regimental  facings  have  been 
white  since  1861. 

Green  Glasses.  To  hole  through 
green  glasses.  To  feel  jealous  of  one  ; 
to  be  envious  of  another's  success. 

"  If  we  had  an  averaKe  of  theatrical  talent,  we 
had  also  our  quantum  of  stage  jealousies  ;  for  who 
looks  through  his  green  glasses  more  peevishly 
than  an  actor  when  his  brother  Thespian  bringa 
down  the  house  with  applause."— C.  Thomsun: 
Autobiography,  p.  197. 

Green  Goose  {A).  A  young  goose 
not  fully  grown. 


Green  Govrd 


551 


Green-eyea 


Green  Gown  (A).  A  tousel  in  the 
new-mown  hay.  To  "give  one  a  green 
go\vii "  sometimes  means  to  go  beyond 
the  bounds  of  innocent  phxyfulness. 

"  Had  any  ilaied  to  give  ber  [Xaiciss;i]  a  greeu 
gown, 
Tlie  fair  liad  petrified  lilni  with  a  frown.  .  .  . 
Pure  as  the  snow  was  she,  and  cold  as  ice."' 

Pttcr  Piiiclur:  Old  Simon. 

Green  Hands  (a  nautical  phrase). 
Inferior  sailors,  also  called  boj's.  A  crew 
is  divided  into  (1)  Able  seamen ;  (2) 
Ordinary  seamen  ;  and  (3)  Green  liands 
or  boj's.  The  tenn  "boys"  has  no  re- 
ference to  age,  but  merely  skill  and 
knowledge  in  seamanship.  Here  '"green" 
means  not  ripe,  not  mature. 

Green  Horse  (TZ/c).  The  5tli  Dra- 
goon Guards  ;  so  called  because  they  are 
a  /lorse  regiment,  and  have  f/ncu  for 
their  regimental  faciugs.  Now  called 
' '  The  Princess  Charlotte  of  Wales's  Dra- 
goon Guards." 

T<i)icto>i\s  f/rceii  Jiorsc.  That  is,  the 
horse  of  General  Tarleton  covered  vrith 
greeu  ribbons  and  housings,  the  elec- 
tioneering colours  of  the  member  for 
Liverpool,  which  he  represented  in  1790, 
1796,  1802,  1807.  His  Christian  name 
was  Banastre. 

Green  Howards  {TIk^.  The  19th 
Foot,  named  from  the  Hon.  Charles 
Howard,  colonel  from  1738  to  1748. 
Green  was  the  colour  of  their  regimental 
facings,  now  white,  and  the  regiment  is 
called  "The  Princess  of  Wales's  Own." 

Green  Isle,  or  The  Emcrahl  Tale. 
Ireland ;  so  called  from  the  brilliant 
green  hue  of  its  grass. 

Green  Knight  {The).  A  Pagan, 
who  demanded  Fezon  in  marriage  ;  but, 
overcome  by  Orson,  resigned  his  claim. 
(  Vah'iittne  (Did  Orson.) 

Green  Labour.  The  lowest-paid 
labour  in  the  tailoring  trade.  8uch 
gannents  are  sold  to  African  gold- 
cliggers  and  agricultural  labourers.  Soap 
anil  shoddy  do  more  for  these  garments 
than  cotton  or  cloth.     {See  Greenee.) 

Green  Linnets.  Tlie  39th  Foot,  so 
called  from  the  colour  of  their  facings. 
Now  the  Dorsetshire,  and  the  facings 
are  white. 

Green  Man.  This  public -house  sign 
represents  the  gamekeeper,  who  used  at 
one  time  to  be  dressed  in  green. 

"  But  the  '  Greeu  JIau '  shall  I  pass  hy  unsung, 
Which   mine   owu  James  upon  his  sign-post 

hung? 
His  sign,  his  image— for  he  once  was  seen 
A  8<iuire's  attendant,  clad  in  keeper's  green." 
Crabbe :  JSorougli, 


The  men  who  let  off  fireworks  were 
called  Giren-meii  in  the  reign  of  James  I. 

"  Have  you  any  squiliS,  any  green-man  in  your 
shows  ? "—IV/e  Siiru  Cliampiuiis  ofClirisltutlom. 

Green  Room  {Thr).  The  common 
waiting-room  in  a  theatre  for  the  per- 
formers ;  so  called  because  at  one  time 
the  walls  were  coloured  green  to  relieve 
the  eyes  affected  by  the  glare  of  the 
stage  "lights. 

Green  Sea.  The  Persian  Gulf ;  so 
called  from  a  remarkable  strip  of  water 
of  a  green  colour  along  the  Ai-abiaii 
coast. 

V  Between  1G90  and  17-12  the  2nd 
Life  Guards  were  facetiously  called 
"  The  Green  Sea  "  from  their  sea-green 
facings,  in  compliment  to  Queen  Catha- 
rine, whose  favourite  colour  it  was. 
The  facings  of  this  regiment  arc  now 
blue. 

Green  Thursday.  Maimdy  Tliurs- 
day,  the  great  day  of  absolution  in  the 
Lutheran  Church.  (German,  Griiii-don- 
nerstdf/ ;  in  Latin,  dies  viridiidn,  Luke 
xxiii.  31.) 

Green  Tree.  If  theij  do  these  things 
ill  the  ijiioi  tree,  what  shall  he  done  in  the 
dr// .^  (Luke  xxiii.  31.)  If  the  right- 
eous can  find  no  justice  in  man,  what 
must  not  the  unrighteous  expect  ?  If 
innocent  men  are  condemned  to  death, 
what  hope  can  the  guilty  have  ?  If 
green  wood  burns  so  readily,  dry  wood 
would  burn  more  freely  still. 

Green  Wax.  Estreats  delivered  to 
a  sheriff  out  of  the  Exchequer,  under 
the  seal  of  the  court,  which  is  impressed 
upon  green  wax,  to  be  le^^ed (7  Henry  IV. 
c.  3).     {IFharton  :  Law  Lexicon.) 

Green  as  Grass.  Applied  to  tliose 
easily  gulled,  and  quite  unacquainted 
with  the  ways  of  the  world.  "  Verdant 
Greens." 

Green  Bag  Inquiry.  Certain  pajiers 
of  a  seditious  character  packed  in  a 
green  bag  during  the  Eegency.  The 
contents  were  laid  before  Parliament, 
and  the  committee  advised  the  suspen- 
sion of  the  Habeas  Coiiius  Act  (1817). 

Green  Baize  Road  {Gentlemen  of 
the).  Whist  players.  "Gentlemen  of 
the  Green  Cloth  Road,"  billiard  players. 
(See  Bleak  House,  chap.  xxvi.  par.  1.) 
Probably  the  idea  of  sharpers  is  in- 
cluded, as  "  Gentlemen  of  the  lioad  " 
means  highwajnneu. 

Green-Eyed  Jealousy  or  Green> 
eyed   Monster.    Expressions  used  by 


G-reen 


552 


Gregorian 


Shakespeare  {Merchant  of  Venice,  iii.  2  ; 
Othello,  iii.  3).  As  cats,  lious,  tigers, 
and  all  the  green-eyed  tribe  "mock  the 
meat  they  feed  on,"  so  jealousy  mocks 
its  -victim  by  loving  and  loathing  it  at 
the  same  time. 

Green  in  my  Eye.    Ih  you  see  any 

green  in  the  ichite  of  my  eye  (or  eyes)  ? 
T)o  I  look  credulous  and  easy  to  be  bam- 
boozled ?  Do  I  look  like  a  greenhorn  ? 
Credulity  and  wonderment  are  most  pro- 
nounced in  the  eye. 

Green  Man  and  Still.  This  public - 
house  sign  refers  to  the  distillation  of 
spirits  from  green  herbs,  such  as  pepper- 
mint cordial,  and  so  on.  The  green  man 
is  the  herbalist,  or  the  greengrocer  of 
herbs,  and  the  still  is  the  ap^jaratus  for 
distillation. 

Green  Ribbon  Day  in  Ireland  is 
March  18th,  St.  Tatriek's  Day,  when 
the  shamrock  and  green  ribbon  are  worn 
as  the  national  badge. 

Green  Sleeves  and  Pudding  Pies. 

This,  like  Maggie  Lauder,  is  a  scurrilous 
song,  in  the  time  of  the  liefonnation,  on 
the  doctrines  of  the  Catholic  Church  and 
the  Catholic  clergy.  {Sec  "  John  Ander- 
son, my  Jo.") 

Greens  of  Constantinople  {Thi). 
A  political  party  opposed  to  the  Blues 
in  the  reign  of  Justinian. 

Greenbacks.  Bank  notes  issued 
by  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
in  1862,  during  the  Civil  "War  ;  so  called 
becnuse  the  back  is  printed  in  green. 
In  March,  1878,  the  amount  of  green- 
backs for  permanent  circulation  was 
fixed  at  346,681,016  dollars;  in  rough 
numbers,  about  70  millions  sterling. 

Greener.  A  slang  term  for  a  foreigner 
who  begins  to  learn  tailoring  or  shoe- 
makiug  on  his  arrival  in  England. 

Greengage.  Introduced  into  Eng- 
land by  the  Rev.  John  Gage  from  the 
Chartreuse  Monastery,  near  Paris.  Called 
by  the  French  "  Reine  Claude,"  out  of 
compliment  to  the  daughter  of  Anne 
de  Bretagne  and  Louis  XII.,  generally 
called  la  bonne  reine  (1499-1 -524). 

Greenhorn  {A).  A  simpleton,  a 
youngster.  French,  Cornichon.  (a  cor- 
nicle or  little  horn),  also  a  simpleton,  a 
calf. 

"Panurge  ]o  veau  cocquart,  corniclioii.  egcorn6 
.  .  .  viens  ici  nous  ayder,  graud  veau  piourart," 
etc.  '—Babelais,  book  iv,  cbap.  xxi. 


Greenlander.  A  native  of  Green- 
land. Facetiously  ajiplied  to  a  green- 
horn, that  is,  one  from  the  verdant 
country  called  the  land  of  green  ones. 

Greenlandman's  Galley.    The 

lowest  type  of  profauit}^  and  vulgarity. 

"Ill  my  si':if:iriii,!-'  days  tlic  CrrciilMiid  sailnrs 
weri'  iKitcpriims  fi>r  dariiit.'  and  llicir  ditii-cs|u'rt  nf 
speodi,  iii-cfacini,'  m-  ciidiiiK  fviTy  prniciuv  wiili 
an  natli,  or  snmc  indcci'iir  ('Xim'ss-iiiii.  Evi'ii  in 
those  days  [iiic  llrsi  i|iiarlfi-  of  llic  iiinclecntU 
centuryj  a  '  ilri'i'iilandinan's  (ialley  '  was  iirovoi'l)i- 
ally  tlic  low, 'St  in  th.'  scale  of  vulgarity."— C. 
'J'homsuii  :  Antubiiit/rdjiln/,  i<.  IIM. 

Too  loir  for  cren  a  Greenfandinan^s 
Galley.  One  whose  ideas  of  decency 
were  degraded  below  even  that  of  a 
Greenland  crew. 

Greenwich  is  the  Saxon  Grene-wic 
(green  village) ,  formerly  called  Grenawic, 
and  in  old  Latin  authors  "  Grenoriaiii 
riridis.'''     Some  think  it  is  a  comjioimd 

of  yi-ian-iric  (the  sun  cit)'). 

Greenwich  Barbers.  Retailers  of 
sand  ;  so  called  because  the  inhabitants 
of  Greenwich  "shave  the  pits"  in  the 
neighbourhood  to  supply  Loudon  with 
sand. 

Greg'arines  (3  syl.).  In  1867  the 
women  of  Eurojje  and  America,  from  the 
thrones  to  the  maid-servants,  adopted 
the  fashion  of  wearing  ti  pad  made  of 
false  hair  behind  their  head,  utterlj' 
destroying  its  natural  projiortions.  The 
microscope  showed  that  the  hair  em- 
ployed for  these  "  nglies  "  abounded  in 
a  pedic'ulous  insect  called  a  grcg'arine 
(or  little  herding  animal),  from  the  Latin 
yrex  (a  herd).  The  nests  on  the  fila- 
ments of  hair  resemble  those  of  spiders 
and  silkworms,  and  the  "object"  used 
to  form  one  of  the  exhibits  in  micro- 
scopical soirees. 

Gregorian  Calendar.  One  which 
shows  the  new  and  full  moon,  with  the 
time  of  Easter  and  the  movable  feasts 
depending  thereon.  The  reformed  calen- 
dar of  the  Church  of  Rome,  introduced 
by  Pope  Gregory  XIII.  in  1582,  corrected 
the  error  of  the  civil  year,  according  to 
the  Julian  calendar. 

Gregorian  Chant.  So  called  be- 
cause it  was  introduced  into  the  church 
service  by  Gregory  the  Great  (600). 

Gregorian  Epoch.  Tlie  epoch  or 
day  on  which  the  Gregorian  calendar 
commenced — March,  1582. 

Gregorian  Telescope.  The  first 
form  of  the  reflecting  telescope,  invented 


Gregorian 


553 


Grbve 


by  James  Gregory,  professor  of  mathe- 
matics iu  the  university  of  St.  Andrews. 
{1663.) 

Grego'rian  Tree.  The  gallows ;  so 
named  from  three  successive  hangmen — 
Gregory,  sen. ,  Gregory,  jun.  ,andGregory 
Brandon.  Sir  William  Segar,  Garter 
Knight  of  Arms,  granted  a  coat  of  arms 
to  Gregory  Brandon.     {Sec  Hangmen.) 

".This  treiiililes  under  the  black  rod,  and  he 
D.ith  fear  his  fate  fnmi  the  Gresrdrian  tree." 
JtJ  lie  lit  ins  Pniijmaticiis  (lij-ll). 

Gregorian  Water  or  Gringorian 
Water.  Holy  water  ;  so  called  because 
(Gregory  I.  was  a  most  strenuous  recom- 
mender  of  it. 

"In  cas3  they  sliould  happen  to  encounter  with 
devils,  by  virtue  of  the  Gringoricne  water,  they 
iiiife'ht  make  them  disappear."— /Jtiteia is;  Gargan- 
tltii,  liuiik  i.  43. 

Grego'rian  Year.  The  civil  year, 
according  to  the  correction  introduced 
by  Pope  Gregory  XIII.  in  1582.  The 
equinox  wliich  occurred  on  the  25th  of 
March,  in  the  time  of  Julius  Ca'sar,  fell 
on  the  11th  of  March  in  the  year  1582. 
This  was  because  the  Julian  calculation 
of  'S6o^  days  to  a  year  was  11  min.  10  sec. 
too  much.  Gregory  suppressed  ten  daj's, 
so  as  to  make  the  equinox  fall  on  the 
21st  of  March,  as  it  did  at  the  Council 
of  Nice,  and,  by  some  simple  aiTauge- 
ments,  prevented  the  recurrence  in 
future  of  a  similar  error. 

Greg'ories  (3  sj-1.).  Ilangmea.  {See 
Geegoeian  Tree.) 

Gregory  (^).  A  school -feast,  so 
called  from  being  held  on  St.  Gregory's 
Day  (March  12"!:^).  On  this  day  the 
pupils  at  one  time  brought  the  master 
all  sorts  of  eatables,  and  of  course  it  was 
a  cUes  no>i,  and  the  master  shut  his  ej'es 
to  all  sorts  of  licences.  Gregories  were 
not  limited  to  any  one  country,  but  were 
common  to  all  Europe. 

Gregory  {SL).  The  last  Pope  <Vho 
has  been  canonised.  Usually  represented 
with  the  tiara,  pastoral  staff,  his  book  of 
homilies,  and  a  dove.  The  last  is  his 
peculiar  attribute. 

Gregory  Knights  or  (SY.  Greyonfs 
Knifilita.  Harmles.s  blusterers.  In  Hun- 
gary the  pupils  at  their  Gregories 
pkiyed  at  soldiers,  marched  through  the 
town  with  flying  colours,  some  on  pony 
back  and  some  on  foot ;  as  they  went 
they  clattered  their  toy  swords,  but  of 
course  hurt  no  one. 

Grenade  (2  syl.).  An  explosive  shell, 
weighing  from  two  to  six  pounds,  to  be 
thrown  by  the  hand. 


Grenadier'  (3  syl.).  Originally  a 
soldier  employed  to  throw  hand-grenades. 

Grenadier  Guards.  The  first  regi- 
ment of  Foot  Guards.  Noted  for  their 
size  and  height. 

Grendel.  A  superhuman  monster 
slain  by  Beowulf,  in  the  Anglo-Saxon 
romance  of  that  title.  (See  Turner's 
abridgetuent.) 

Gresham  College  (London). 
Founded  by  Sir  Thomas  Gresham  in 
1575. 

Gresham  and   the  Grasshopper. 

{See  Geasshoppee.) 

Gresham  and  the  Pearl.     When 

Queen  Elizabeth  visited  the  Exchange, 
Sir  Thomas  Gresham,  it  is  said,  i)ledged 
her  health  in  a  cup  of  wine  containing  a 
jjrecious  stone  crushed  to  atoms,  and 
worth  £15,000.  If  this  tale  is  true,  it 
was  an  exceedingly  foolish  imitation  of 
Cleopatra  {'/.>'.). 

"  Here  Hfti'en  thousaiul  pounds  at  one  clap  goes 
liisteail  of  sugar  ;  Gresham  drinks  the  pearl 
into  his  iiueeu  and  mistress.    Pledge  it,  lords." 
llcyicood :  If  You  Know  Not  Me  3  ou  Know  Xoboilij. 

To  dine  or  sup  with  Sir  Thomas 
Gresham.     {See  under  Dine.) 

Greta  Hall.  The  poet  of  Greta  Hall. 
Southej%  who  lived  at  Greta  Hall,  in 
the  Vale  of  Keswick.     (1774-1843.) 

Gretchen.  A  jiet  German  diminu- 
tive of  Margaret. 

Greth'el  {Gammer).  The  hypotheti- 
cal narrator  of  the  Nursery  Tales  edited 
by  the  brothers  Grimm. 

Gretna  Green  Marriages.  Run- 
away matches.  In  Scotland,  ail  that  is 
required  of  contracting  parties  is  a 
mutual  declaration  before  witnesses  of 
their  willingness  tomarrj-,  so  that  elopers 
reaching  the  parish  of  Graitney,  or  vil- 
lage of  SiJringfield,  could  get  legally 
married  without  either  licence,  banns, 
or  priest.  The  declaration  was  generally 
made  to  a  blacksmith. 

Crabbe  has  a  metrical  tale  called 
Gretna  Green,  in  which  j'oung  Belwood 
elopes  with  Clara,  the  daughter  of  Dr. 
Sidmere,  and  gets  married  ;  but  Belwood 
was  a  "  screw,"  and  Clara  a  silly,  extra- 
vagant hussy,  so  they  soon  hated  each 
other  and  parted.  {Tales  of  the  Hall, 
book  XV.) 

Greve  (1  syl.).  Flaeede  Grere.  The 
Tyburn  of  ancient  Paris.  The  present 
Hotel  de  Ville  occupies  part  of  the  site. 
The  word  ffrere  means  the  strand  of  a 
river  or  the  shore  of  the  sea,  and  is  so 


Grey 


55-1 


Grievance -monger 


called  from  grarkr  (gravel  or  sand). 
The  Place  de  Greve  was  on  the  bank  of 
the  Seine. 

"  Wbi)  has  e'er  been  to  Paris  must  needs  know  the 
Greve, 
The  fatal  retreat  of  th'  unfortunate  brave, 
"Where  honour  and  justice  most  oddly  contri- 
bute 
To  ease  Hero's  pains  by  a  halter  or  gibbet." 

I'rwr :  Tlie  Thief  and  the  Cordelier. 

Grey  Friars.  Franciscan  friars,  so 
called  from  their  grey  liabit.  Black 
friars  are  Dominicans,  and  White  friars 
Carmelites. 

Grey  Hen  (^i).  A  stone  bottle  for 
holding  liquor.  Large  and  small  pewter 
]ints  mixed  together  are  called  "  hen  and 
chickens." 

"A  dirty  leather  wallet  lay  near  the  sleeper, 
.  .  .  also  a  grey-hen  which  Had  contained  some 
sort  of  strons,'  liiiuor."— J/iss  HoOinsoii :  White- 
;>,,i;-.v,  chill.,  viii. 

Grey  Mare.  T/ie  Grey  Mare  is  the 
hetUr  horse.  The  woman  is  paramount. 
It  is  said  that  a  man  wished  to  buy  a 
liorse,  but  his  wife  took  a  fancy  to  a  grey 
mare,  and  so  iiertinaciously  insisted  that 
the  grey  mare  was  the  better  horse,  that 
the  man  was  obliged  to  yield  the  poiut. 

V  Macaiday  .says:  "I  suspect  [the 
Ijroverb]  originated  in  the  preference 
generally  given  to  the  grey  mares  of 
Flanders  over  the  finest  coach-horses  of 
England." 

I'he  French  say,  when  the  woman  is 
paramount,  Cest  le  mariaye  (Pepenier 
('Tis  a  hawk's  marriage),  because  the 
female  hawk  is  both  larger  and  stronger 
than  the  male  bird. 

"As  Ions  as  we  have  eyes,  or  hands,  or  breath. 
We'll  look,  or  write,  or  talk  you  all  to  death. 
Yield,  (U'  she-Pegasus  will  gain  her  course, 
And  the  grey  mare  will  prove  the  better  horse." 
Prior :  Epilogue  to  Mrs.  iJanlei/'s  Lucius. 

Grey  Wethers.  These  are  huge 
boulders,  either  embedded  or  not,  very 
common  in  the  "  Valley  of  Stones  "  near 
Avebury,  Wilts.  When  split  or  broken 
up  they  are  called  sarsens  or  sarsdens. 

Grey-coat  Parson  (A).  An  impro- 
jiriator ;  a  tenant  who  farms  the  titlies. 

Grey  from  Grief. 

Ludovico  Sforza  became  grej'  in  a 
single  night. 

Charles  I.  grew  grey  while  he  was  on 
his  trial. 

Marie  Antoinette  grew  grey  from  grief 
during  her  imprisonment.     {See  Geay.) 

Grey  Goose  Wing  (The).  "The 
grey  goose  wing  was  the  death  of  him," 
the  arrow  which  is  winged  with  grey 
goose  feathers. 

Grey  Mare's  Tail.  A  cataract  that 
is  made  by  the  stream  which  is^es  from 


Lochskene,  in  Scotland,  so  called  from 
its  appearance. 

Grey  Washer  by  the  Ford  (The). 
An  Irish  wraith  which  seems  to  be  wash- 
ing clothes  in  a  river,  but  when  the 
"  doomed  man  "  approaches  she  holds 
up  what  she  seemed  to  be  washing,  and 
it  is  the  lihantom  of  himself  with  his 
death  wounds  from  which  he  is  about  to 
sutfer.  {IIoii.  Eiiiihj  Lciiclett  :  Essex  in 
Jrei<(uif,  p.  'ilo-ti.) 

Greybeard  (yl).  An  earthen  pot 
fur  lioltliug  spirits;  a  large  stone  jar. 
Also  an  old  man.     (cf.  Bellaemine.) 

"We  will  give  a  cup  of  di.-^lilled  waters  .  .  . 
unto  ihe  next  pilgrim  thai  comes  over;  and  je 
ii:ay  keep  for  the  purpose  the  grunds  of  the  last 
grej  Ijcard."— ,S/c  H'.  Scott:  The  Monaster!/,  chap, 
ix. 

Greycoats.  Eussian  soldiers  of  the 
line,  who  wear  grey  coats. 

"  Voii  mighl  think  of  him  thus  calm  and  col- 
lecte<l  charging  his  rifle  for  one  more  shot  at  thu 
advancing  greycoats."  —  iiesaxt  and  Jiice:  liy 
Celia's  Arbour,  chap.  .\lv. 

Greyhound.  "  A  greyhounde  shoulde 
be  heeled  like  a  snake.  And  neked  like  a 
Drake  ;  Foted  like  a  Kat,  Tayled  like  a 
Bat ;  Syded  like  a  Teme,  Chyned  like  a 
Beme."     {Dame  Beriur.) 

"  Sycled  like  a  teme,"  probably  means  bulh  sides 
alike;  a  plou.gh-teain  being  meant. 

Greyhound.  A  public-house  sign, 
in  honour  of  Henry  VII.,  whose  badge 
it  was. 

Greys.  The  Scoteh  Greys.  The  2nd 
(Royal  North  British)  Dragoons,  so 
called  because  they  are  momited  on  grey 
liorses. 

Grid'iron.  Emblematic  of  St.  Lau- 
rence, because  in  his  martyrdom  he  was 
broiled  to  death  on  a  gridiron.  In  allu- 
sion thereto  the  church  of  St.  Laurence 
Jewry,  near  Guildhall,  has  a  gilt  grid- 
iron for  a  vane.  The  gridiron  is  also  an 
attribute  of  St.  Faith,  who  was  martyred 
like  St.  Laurence ;  and  St.  Vincent,  who 
was  partially  roasted  on  a  gridiron 
covered  with  spikes,  A.D.  258.  {See 
ESCUEIAl. ) 

It  is  said  that  .St.  Laurence  uttered  the  follow- 
ing doggerel  during  his  martyrdom  : 
"This  side  enough  is  roasted,  turn  me,  tyrant, eat, 
And  see   if  raw  or  roasted  I  make  the  better 
meat." 

Grief.  To  come  to  grief.  To  be 
ruined ;  to  fail  in  business.  As  lots  of 
money  is  the  fulness  of  joj',  so  the  want 
of  it  is  the  grief  of  griefs.  The  Ameri- 
cans call  the  dollar  "almighty." 

Grievance  -  monger.     One  who  is 

always  raking  ujd  or  talking  about  his 
own  or  his  party's  grievances,  public  or 
private. 


Griflen   Horse 


Grind 


Griffen  Horse  (27«)  belouged  to 
Atlautes,  the  magiciau,  but  was  made 
use  of  by  Roge'ro,  Astolpho,  aud  others. 
It  flew  through  tlie  air  at  the  bidding  of 
the  rider,  and  landed  him  where  he 
listed.     (Ariosto  :  OrhimJo  Fnrloso.) 

Griffin.  A  cadet  newly  arrived  in 
India,  half  English  and  half  Indian. 

O'rijfiiix,  the  residue  of  a  contract 
feast,  taken  away  by  the  contractor,  half 
the  buyer's  and  half  the  seller's. 

Griffon,  Griffen,  or  Griffin.  Off- 
spring of  the  lion  and  eagle.  Its  legs 
and  all  from  the  shoulder  to  the  head  are 
like  au  eagle,  the  rest  of  the  body  is  that 
of  a  lion.  This  creature  was  sacred  to 
the  sun,  and  kept  guard  over  hidden 
treasures.  Sir  Thomas  Browne  says  the 
Griffon  is  emblematical  of  watchfulness, 
courage,  perseverance,  and  rapidity  of 
execution  (Jli/i/ar  Errors,  iii.  2.)  (.S'c<? 
Arimaspians.) 

Grig.  j\[errij  ax  a  grUj.  A  grig  is  the 
sand-eel,  and  a  cricket.  There  was  also 
a  class  of  vagabond  dancers  and  tumblers 
who  visited  ale-houses  so  called.  Hence 
Levi  Solomon,  alias  Cockleput,  who  lived 
in  Sweet  Apple  Court,  being  asked  in 
Iiis  examination  how  he  obtained  his 
living,  replied  that  "he  wenta-grigging." 
Many  think  the  expression  should  be 
merry  as  a  Grccl:,  and  have  Shakespeare 
to  back  them:  "Then  she's  a  merry 
Greek  ;  "  and  again,  "  Cressid  'mongst 
the  merry  Greeks  "  (Troi/as  and  Crcsslda, 
i.  2  ;  iv.  4).  Patrick  Gordon  also  says, 
'"No  people  in  the  world  are  so  jovial 
and  merry,  so  given  to  singing  and 
dancing,  as  the  Greeks." 

Grim  {Giant),  in  Bmiyan's  ri/;/r'u)>\s 
I'roi/rcss,  part  ii.  He  was  one  who 
tried  to  stop  pilgrims  on  their  way  to  the 
Celestial  City,  but  was  slain  by  Mr. 
Greatheart.     (See  Giants.) 

Grima'ce  (2  syl.).  Cotgi-ave  says 
this  word  is  from  Grima'cier,  who  was  a 
celebrated  carver  of  fantastic  heads  in 
Gotliic  architecture.  This  may  be  so, 'but 
our  word  comes  direct  from  the  French 
f/riniace  ;  (jri)nackr,  one  who  makes  wry 
faces. 

Grimal  kin  or  Graymalkin  (Frencli, 
f/r'is  malkin).  Shakespeare  makes  the 
Witch  in  Macbeth  say,  ' '  I  come,  Gray- 
malkin," Malkin  being  the  name  of  a 
foul  fiend.  The  cat,  supposed  to  be  a 
witch  and  the  companion  of  witches,  is 
called  by  the  same  name. 

Grimes  (Feter).  This  son  of  a  steady 
fisherman  was  a  drunkard  and  a  thief. 


He  had  a  boy  whom  he  killed  by  ill- 
visage.  Two  others  he  made  away  with, 
but  was  not  convicted  for  want  of  evi- 
dence. As  no  one  would  live  with  him, 
he  dwelt  alone,  became  mad,  and  was 
lodged  in  the  parish  poor-house,  confessed 
his  crime  in  his  delirium,  and  died. 
{(Jrabhc  :  Boroayh,  letter  xxii.) 

Grimm's  Law.  A  law  discovered 
by  Jacob  L.  Grimm,  the  German  philolo- 
gist, to  show  how  the  mute  consonants 
interchange  as  corresponding  words  oc- 
cur in  different  branches  of  the  A'ryan 
family  of  languages.  Thus,  what  \&p  in 
Greek,  Latin,  or  Sanskrit  becomes  /'  in 
Gothic,  and  h  or/  in  the  Old  High  Cier- 
man ;  what  is  t  in  Greek,  Latin,  or  San- 
skrit becomes  th  iu  Gothic,  and  d  in  Old 
High  German ;  etc.  Thus  changing  j) 
into/',  and  t  into  th,  " pater "  becomes 
"father." 

Grimsby  (Lincolnshire) .  Grim  was  a 
fisherman  wlio  rescued  from  a  drifting 
boat  an  infant  named  Habloc,  whom  he 
adojited  and  brought  up.  This  infant 
turned  out  to  be  the  son  of  the  king  of 
Denmark,  and  when  tlie  boy  was  restored 
to  his  royal  sire  Grim  was  laden  with 
gifts.  He  now  returned  to  Lincolushii-e 
and  built  the  town  which  he  called  after 
his  own  name.  The  ancient  seal  of  the 
town  contains  the  names  of  Gryme  and 
Habloc.  This  is  the  foundation  of  the 
mediaeval  tales  about  Harelock  the 
Dane. 

Grim's  Dyke  or  DevlPs  Dyke  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  (jriina,  a  goblin  or  demon). 

Grimwig.  A  choleric  old  gentleman 
fond  of  contradiction,  generally  ending 
with  the  words  "  or  I'll  eat  my  head." 
He  is  the  friend  of  Browulow.  {Dickens  : 
Olirer  Twist.) 

Grin  and  Bear  It  (Yon  mast),  or 
You  must  (jrln  and  bide  it,  for  resist- 
ance is  hoijeless.  You  may  make  up 
a  face,  if  you  like,  but  you  cannot  helx> 
you.rself. 

Grind.  To  work  uiJ  for  an  examina- 
tion ;  to  grind  up  the  suljjects  set,  and 
to  grind  into  the  memory  the  necessary 
cram.  The  allusion  is  to  a  mill,  and  the 
analogy  evident. 

To  grind  one  down.  To  reduce  the 
price  asked  ;  to  lower  wages.  A  knife, 
etc. ,  is  gradually  reduced  by  grinding. 

To  tiike  a  (/rind  is  to  take  a  constitu- 
tional walk ;  to  cram  into  the  smallest 
space  the  greatest  amount  of  physical 
exercise.  This  is  the  physical  grind. 
The  literary  grind  is  a  turn  at  hard  study. 


Grinders 


556 


Groat 


To  tale  (I  grinder  is  to  insult  another 
by  apjilyiug  the  left  thumb  to  the  nose 
and  revolving  the  right  hand  round  it, 
as  if  working  a  liand-organ  or  coffee- 
mill.  This  insulting  retort  is  given 
when  someone  has  tried  to  practise  on 
your  credulity,  or  to  impose  upon  your 
good  faith. 

Grinders.  The  double  teeth  which 
grind  the  food  put  into  the  mouth.  The 
Preacher  speaks  of  old  age  as  the  time 
when  "the  grinders  cease  because  Ihey 
are  few"  (Ecc.  xii.  3).  {tice  Almond 
Tkee.) 

Grisaille.  A  style  of  painting  in  gray 
tints,  resembling  solid  bodies  in  relief, 
such  as  ornaments  of  cornices,  etc. 

Grise.  A  step.  {See  Grecian  States.) 

"  Whirli  jis  a  gvise  or  step  may  help  these  lovers 
Into  vnur  f.n our." 

Shalcfixair :  OtIu'Uo,  i.  .3. 

Grisilda  or  Griselda.  The  model  of 
enduring  patience  and  conjugal  obe- 
dience. She  was  the  daughter  of  Janic'- 
ola,  a  poor  charcoal-btirner,  but  became 
the  wife  of  Walter,  Marquis  of  Saluzzo. 
The  marquis  put  her  humility  and  obe- 
dience to  three  severe  trials,  but  she 
submitted  to  them  all  without  a  murmur : 
(1)  Her  infant  daughter  was  taken  from 
her,  and  secretly  conve\'ed  to  the  Queen 
of  Pa' via  to  bring  up,  wliile  Grisilda  was 
made  to  believe  that  it  had  been  mur- 
dered. (2)  Four  years  later  she  had  a 
son,  who  was  also  taken  from  her,  and 
sent  to  be  brought  up  with  her  sister. 
When  the  little  girl  was  twelve  j'ears  old, 
the  marquis  told  Grisilda  he  intended  to 
divorce  her  and  marry  another ;  so  she 
was  stripped  of  all  her  fine  clothes  and 
sent  back  to  her  father's  cottage.  On 
the  "wedding  clay"  the  much-abused 
Grisilda  was  sent  for  to  receive  "  her 
rival "  and  prepare  her  for  the  ceremony. 
When  her  lord  saw  in  her  no  spark  of 
jealousy,  he  told  her  the  "bride"  was 
her  own  daughter.  The  moral  of  the 
tale  is  this  :  If  Grisilda  submitted  with- 
out a  murmur  to  these  trials  of  her 
husband,  how  much  more  ought  we  to 
submit  without  repining  to  the  trials 
sent  us  by  God. 

This  tale  is  the  last  of  Boccaccio's  De- 
cam'crou  ;  it  was  rendered  by  Petrarch 
into  a  Latin  romance  entitled  iJe  Ohe- 
(lientia  et  Fide  Vxo'ria  Mytltolo'e/ia,  and 
forms  Tlie  C'ler/ci's  Tale '  in  Chaucer's 
Caiiferlnrrt/  Tales.  Miss  Edgeworth  has 
a  novel  entitled  The  Modern  Griselda. 

Grist.  All  grist  tJiat  eomes  to  my 
mill.  All  is  appropriated  that  comes  to 
me ;  all  is  made  use  of  that  comes  in  my 


way.  Giist  is  all  that  quantity  of  corn 
which  is  to  be  ground  or  crushed  at  one 
time.  The  phrase  means,  all  that  is 
brought  —  good,  bad,  and  indifferent 
corn,  with  all  refuse  and  waste — is  put 
into  the  mill  and  ground  together.  {See 
Emolument.) 

To  bring  yrist  to  the  iitill.  To  supply 
customers  or  furnish  supplies. 

Griz'el  or  Grissel.  Gctavia,  wife  of 
Marc  Antony  iuul  sister  of  Augustus 
Caesar,  is  called  the  "patient  Grizel"  of 
Roman  story.     {See  Grisilda.) 

"  For  patienre  she  will  i  rove  a  second  fjripsel.' 
Uliakcspcarc :  'J'(niii}i<j  v/tlic  .Slina-,  ii.  1. 

Groaning  Cake.  A  cake  prepared 
for  tliosc  who  called  at  tlie  house  of  a 
woman  in  confinement  "to  see  the 
baby." 

Groaning  Chair.  The  chair  used 
liy  women  after  confinement  when  they 
received  visitors. 

Groaning  Malt.  A  strong  ale  brewed 
for  the  gossips  who  attend  at  the  birth 
of  a  child,  and  for  those  who  come  to 
offer  to  a  husband  congratulations  at 
the  auspicious  event.  A  cheese,  called 
Ihe  Ken-no,  or  "groaning  cheese,"  was 
also  made  for  the  occasion.  [SeeKEN-NO.) 

'•  Jleit  Jlerrilies  deseemled  to  the  kitohen  lo 
i-'ocure  her  share  of  the  groaniiitf  malt."— ,S')C  I)'. 
.'•cvit :  (Imj  Mcmucring,  chap.  iii. 

Groat.  From  John  o'  G'roat\s  house 
to  the  LanrVs  End.  From  Dan  to  Beer- 
sheba,  from  one  end  of  Great  Britain  to 
the  other.  John  o'  Groat  was  a  Dutch- 
man, who  settled  in  the  most  northerly 
point  of  Scotland  in  the  reign  of  James 
IV.,  and  immortalised  himself  by  the 
waj-  he  settled  a  dispute  respecting 
precedency.     {See  John  o'  Groat.) 

Bloal  icithoitt  groats  is  nothing  (north 
of  England),  meaning  "family  without 
fortune  is  worthless."  The  allusion  is  to 
black-pudding,  which  consists  chiefly  of 
blood  and  groats  formed  into  a  sausage. 

Xot  u-orili  a  groat.  Of  no  value.  A 
groat  is  a  silver  fourpence.  The  Dutch 
had  a  coin  called  a  grote,  a  contraction  of 
g rote- sehw are  (great  schware),  so  called 
because  it  was  equal  in  value  to  five  little 
schware.  So  the  coin  of  Edward  III.  was 
the  groat  or  gi-eat  silver  pennj',  equal  to 
four  penny  pieces.  The  modern  groat 
was  first  issued  in  1835,  and  were  with- 
drawn from  circulation  in  1 887.  (French, 
gros,  great.)  Groats  are  no  longer  in 
circulation. 

"  He  that  spends  a  groat  a  day  iiUy,  epeuda 
idly  above  six  pounds  a  year,"— /VaJiA'/iu;  iicce^- 
miry  Hints,  p.  131. 


Grog 


557 


Ground  Arms 


Grog.  Rum  and  -water,  cold  without. 
Admiral  Yeruoii  was  called  Old  Grog  h\ 
his  sailors  because  he  was  accustomed 
to  walk  the  deck  in  rough  weather  in  a 
grogram  cloak.  As  he  was  the  first  to 
serve  water  in  the  rum  on  board  ship, 
the  mixture  went  by  the  name  of  grog. 
Six-u-(if:r  grog  is  one  part  rum  to  six 
parts  of  water.  Grog,  in  common  par- 
lance, is  any  mixture  of  spirits  and 
water,  either  hot  or  cold. 

Grog  Blossoms.  Blotches  on  the 
face  that  are  produced  by  over-indulg- 
ence of  grog. 

Gro'gram.  A  coarse  kind  of  taffety, 
stiffened  with  gum.  A  corruption  of  the 
French  g  ran -grain. 

"  t4ossips  in  firief  and  j-Togfams  clad.'' 
I'raed :  The  Troubadour,  cauto  i.  stanza  5. 

Groined  Ceiling.  One  in  which 
the  arches  are  divided  or  intersected. 
(Swedish,  grcna,  to  divide.) 

Grommet,  Gromet,  Grumet,  or 
Grummet.  A  younker  on  board  ship. 
In  Smith's  Sea  Grammar  we  are  told  that 
' '  younkers  are  the  young  men  whose 
duty  it  is  to  take  in  the  topsails,  or  top 
the  j'ard  for  furling  the  sails  or  slinging 
the  j'ards.  .  .  ."  "  <SV(7tij>,"  he  says, 
"are  the  elder  men."  Gromet  is  the 
Flemish  grom  (a  boy),  with  the  dinu- 
nutive.  It  appears  iu  hrulc-grooin,  etc. 
Also  a  ring  of  rope  made  by  laying  a 
single  strand.  {La)ia  :  iSeamaii's  Mannal, 
p.  98.)     Also  a  powder- wad. 

Grongar  Hill,  iu  South  Wales,  has 
been  rendered  famous  by  Dyer's  poem 
called  Groxgar  Hilt. 

Groom  of  the  Stole.  Keeper  of  the 
stole  or  state-robe.  His  duty,  origiualh', 
was  to  iuvest  the  king  iu  his  state-robe, 
but  he  had  also  to  hand  him  his  shirt 
when  he  dressed.  The  office,  when  a 
queen  reigns,  is  ternvid  Mistress  of  the 
Mobes,  but  Queen  Auue  had  her  "  Groom 
of  the  Stole."  (Greek,  stole,  a  garment.) 
(.Sfc  Bridegroom.) 

Gross.     {Sec  Advowson.) 

Grosted  or  Eobcrt  Grossctcste,  Bishop 
of  Lincoln,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  III., 
the  author  of  some  two  hundred  works. 
He  was  accused  of  dealings  iu  the  black 
arts,  and  the  Pope  ordered  a  letter  to  be 
written  to  the  King  of  England,  enjoin- 
ing him  to  disinter  the  bones  of  the  too- 
wise  bishop  and  burn  them  to  powder. 
(Died  1253.) 

"  None  a  deeper  knowledge  bnnsted. 
Since  Hodg,-,  Bacon,  and  Bob  Grosted." 

£t.tler :  Hadibraf,  ii.  3. 


Grotes'que  ('2  syl.)  means  in  "Grotto 
style."  Classical  ornaments  so  called 
were  found  in  the  13th  century  iu 
grottoes,  that  is,  excavations  made  in 
the  baths  of  Titus  and  iu  other  Roman 
buildings.  These  ornaments  abound  iu 
fanciful  combinations,  and  hence  any- 
tliing  OKtri  is  termed  grotesque. 

Grotta  del  Cane  (Najjles).  The 
Dog's  Cave,  so  called  from  the  practice 
of  sending  dogs  into  it  to  show  visitors 
how  the  carbonic  acid  gas  near  the  tioor 
of  the  cave  kills  them. 

Grotto.  Tray  remember  the  grotto. 
July  25  new  stgle,  and  August  5  old  style, 
is  the  day  dedicated  to  St.  James  the 
Greater  ;  and  the  correct  thing  to  do  in 
days  of  yore  was  to  stick  a  shell  in  your 
hat  or  coat,  and  pay  a  visit  on  that  day 
to  the  shrine  of  St.  James  of  Compos- 
tella.  Shell  grottoes  with  an  image  of 
the  saint  were  erected  for  the  behoof 
of  those  who  could  not  afford  such  pil- 
grimage, and  the  keeper  of  it  reminded 
the  passer-by  to  remember  it  was  St. 
James's  Day,  and  not  to  forget  their 
offering  to  the  saint. 

Grotto  of  Ephesus  {Thi).  The  test 
of  chastity.  E.  Bulwer-Lyttou,  iu  his 
Talcs  ofJIileO/s  (iii.),  tells  us  that  near 
the  statue  of  Diana  is  a  grotto,  and  if, 
when  a  woman  enters  it,  she  is  not 
chaste,  discordant  sounds  are  heard  and 
the  woman  is  never  seen  more ;  if, 
however,  musical  sounds  are  heard,  the 
woman  is  a  jiure  virgin  and  comes  forth 
from  the  grotto  unharmed. 

Ground.     (Anglo-Saxon,  yruiid.) 

It  'ivonld  suit  me  down  to  the  ground. 
"Wholly  and  entirely. 

To  break  ground.  To  be  the  first  to 
commence  a  in'oject,  etc.  ;  to  take  the 
first  step  iu  an  undertaking. 

To  gain  ground.  To  make  progress  ; 
to  be  improving  one's  position  or  pro- 
spects of  success. 

To  hold  one''s  ground.  To  maintain 
one's  authority;  not  to  budge  from 
one's  position ;  to  retain  one's  jiopu- 
larity. 

To  lose  ground.  To  become  less  popu- 
lar or  less  successful ;  to  be  drifting 
away  from  the  object  aimed  at. 

To  stand  one's  ground.  Not  to  yield 
or  give  way  ;  to  stick  to  one's  colours  ; 
to  have  the  courage  of  one's  opinion. 

Ground  Arms  {To).  To  pile  or  stack 
military  arms,  such  as  guns,  on  the 
ground  (in  drill). 


Groundlings 


558 


Guards 


Groundlings.  Those  who  stood  in 
the  pit,  which  was  the  ground  in  ancient 
theatres. 

"  To  split  the  cars  nf  tin-  KronnrlliiiKS." 

miakeupcure:  JJainlct,  iii.  ■_'. 

Grove.  The  "grove"  for  which  the 
Jewish  women  wove  hangings,  and 
wliich  the  Jews  were  commanded  to  cut 
down  land  burn,  was  the  wooden  Ash'- 
era,  a  sort  of  idol  symbolising  the  gener- 
ative power  of  Nature. 

Growlers  and  CrawkrK.  The  four- 
wheel  cabs;  called  "growlers"  from 
the  surly  and  discontented  manners  of 
their  drivers,  and  "crawlers"  from 
their  slow  pace. 

"Taken  as  a  wliole,  tlio  avorase  drivprs  of 
haiisoiu  cabs  . .  .  arc  smart,  intcUigciit  men,  sober, 
lionest, and  bardworkiuj?.  .  .  .  They  liave  little  . . . 
in  connnon  with  the  obtrusive,  surly,  liesolicd 
dri  \  ers  of  the  '  growlers '  and  '  crawlers.'  "—Xiiic- 
teciilh  Ccutury,  March,  181)3,  ii.  473. 

Grub  Street,  Since  1830  called 
Milton  Street,  nenr  Moorficlds,  London, 
once  famous  for  literary  hacks  and  in- 
ferior literary  productions.  The  word 
is  the  Gothic  ffndxni  (to  dig),  wlience 
Saxon  ffrab  (a  grave)  and  ff)orp  (a  ditch). 
(See  Uii/iciad,  i.  38,  etc.) 

Gruel.  To  r/ire  hi  in  hh  firiicL  To 
kill  him.  The  allusion  is  to  the  very 
common  practice  in  France,  in  the  six- 
teenth centmy,  of  giving  poisoned  pos- 
sets— an  art  brought  to  perfection  by 
Catherine  de  Medicis  and  her  Italian 
advisers. 

Grumbo.  A  giant  in  the  tale  of  Join 
Thiimh.  A  raven  jiicked  up  Tom,  think- 
ing him  to  be  a  grain  of  corn,  and 
dropped  him  on  the  flat  roof  of  the 
giant's  castle.  Old  Grumbo  came  to 
Avalk  on  the  roof  terrace,  and  Tom  cre]3t 
up  his  sleeve.  The  giant,  annoyed, 
shook  his  sleeve,  and  Tom  fell  into  the 
sea,  where  a  fish  swallowed  him ;  and 
the  fish,  having  been  caught  and  brought 
to  Arthiu''s  table,  was  the  means  of  intro- 
ducing Tom  to  the  British  king,  by 
whom  he  was  knighted.  (Xufscri/  Tide : 
Tom  2'lnnnb.) 

Grundy.  WJwt  will  Jfrs.  Gnntdy 
say  *  What  will  our  rivals  or  neigh- 
bours say?  The  phrase  is  from  Tom 
Morton's  Speed  the  FloKijh.  In  the  first 
scene  Mrs.  Ashfield  shows  herself  very 
jealous  of  neighboiu-  Grundy,  and  fanner 
Ashfield  saj-s  to  her,  "  Be  quiet,  wullye? 
Always  ding,  dinging  Dame  Grundy  into 
my  ears.  What  will  Mrs.  Grundy  zay  ? 
"What  will  Mrs.  Grundy  think  ?  .   .  ." 

Grunth.  The  sacred  book  of  the 
Sikhs, 


Gruy6re.  A  tovra  in  Switzerland 
which  gives  its  name  to  a  kind  of  cheese 
made  there. 

Gryll.  Let  Gnjll  Iw  Gnjll,  and  Iceep 
his  hdi/i/ish  mind.  Don't  attempt  to 
wasli  a  blackamoor  wliite ;  the  leopard 
will  never  change  his  spots.  Gryll  is 
from  the  Greek  i/rH  (the  grtuiting  of  a 
liog).  When  Sir  Guj'on  disenchanted 
the  forms  in  the  Bower  of  Bliss  some 
were  exceedingly  angry,  and  one  in  par- 
ticular, named  (iryll,  who  had  been 
metamorphosed  by  Acra'sia  into  a  hog, 
abused  him  most  roundly.  "  Come," 
says  the  jialmer  to  Sir  Guyou, 

"  Li'l-  (iryll  be  (Jryll,  and  have  his  ho>,'sish  mind, 
]iut  let  us  hence  depart  while  weather  serves, 
and  wind." 

Spenser  :  Faerie  Qiirenc,  hook  ii.  12. 

Gryphon  (in  Orhmdo  Fiirioso),  sou 
of  ( )live'ro  and  Sigismunda ,  brother  of 
Aquilant,  in  love  with  Origilla,  who 
plays  him  false.  He  was  called  While 
from  his  armour,  and  his  brother  Black. 
He  overthi'cvv  the  eight  diampions  of 
Damascus  in  the  tournament  given  to 
celebrate  the  king's  wedding-day.  Wliile 
asleep  Marta'no  steals  liis  armour,  and 
goes  to  the  King  Norandi'no  to  receive 
the  meed  of  high  deeds.  In  the  mean- 
time Gryphon  awakes,  finds  his  armour 
gone,  is  obliged  to  i^ut  on  Marta'no's, 
iind,  being  mistaken  for  the  coward, 
is  hooted  and  hustled  by  the  crowd. 
He  lays  aT)otit  him  stoutly,  and  kills 
many.  The  king  comes  up,  finds  out 
the  mistake,  and  offers  his  hand,  which 
Gryphon,  like  a  true  knight,  receives. 
He  joined  the  army  of  Charlemagne. 

Gryphons.     {Sec  Geiffon.) 

Guadia'na.  The  squire  of  Duran- 
darte.  Mourning  the  fall  of  his  master 
at  Eoncesvalles,  he  was  turned  into  the 
river  which  bears  the  same  name.  (Don 
Quixote,  ii.  23.) 

GuafT.  Victor  Emmanuel  was  so 
called  from  his  nose. 

Gua'no  is  the  Peruvian  word  hiia'no 
(dung),  and  consists  of  the  di'oppiugs  of 
sea-fowls. 

Guarantee.  An  engagement  on  the 
part  of  a  third  per.son  to  see  an  agree- 
ment fulfilled. 

Guard.  To  he  off  one's  gnard.  To  be 
careless  or  heedless. 

•  A  guardroom  is  the  place  where  mili- 
tary offenders  are  detained  ;  and  a  guard- 
ship  is  a  ship  stationed  in  a  iiort  or 
harbour  for  its  defence. 

Guards  of  the  Pole.  The  two  stars 
/3  and  V  in  the  Great  Bear.   Shakespeare, 


Gruarinos 


559 


Guendolen 


in  Othello,  ii.  1,  refers  to  them  where  he 
says,  the  surge  seems  ' '  to  quench  the 
guards  of  the  ever-fixed  pole." 

"  How  til  knuwo  the  hnnn>  uf  the  iiiybt  by  the 
[rdlar]  G;irds,  I'.v  knowing  on  what  iioint  of  tlie 
i-nnipa=s  they  Phiill  heat  midnight  every  flftecntli 
(lay  thioirjliout  the  whole  year."— JVoj'HiflK ;  So/c- 

Guari'nos  {AchmraT).  One  of  Char- 
leniague's  jialadins,  taken  captive  at  the 
battle  of  lloncesvalles.  He  fell  to  the 
lot  of  Marlo'tes,  a  Moslem,  who  offei'ed 
him  his  daughter  in  marriage  if  he  would 
become  a  disciple  of  Mahomet.  Guari'- 
nos refused,  and  was  cast  into  a  dungeon, 
where  he  lay  captive  for  seven  years. 
A  joust  was  then  held,  and  Admiral 
Guari'nos  was  allowed  to  try  his  hand 
at  a  target.  He  knelt  before  the 
Moor,  stabbed  him  to  the  heart,  and  then 
vaulted  on  his  grey  horse  Treb'ozoud', 
and  esca2)ed  to  France. 

Gubbings.  Anabaptists  near  Brent, 
in  Devonshire.  They  had  no  ecclesiasti- 
cal order  or  authority,  "but  lived  in 
holes,  like  swine  ;  had  all  things  in  com- 
mon ;  and  multiplied  without  marriage. 
Their  language  was  vulgar  Devonian.  .  . 
They  lived  by  pilfering  sheep ;  were 
fleet  as  horses  ;  held  together  like  bees  ; 
and  revenged  every  wrong.  One  of  the 
society  was  always  elected  chief,  and 
called  Ki)i(/  of  the  GuhhiurjK.'"     {Fuller.') 

N.B.  Their  name  is  tvon\(julbi)iffs,  the 
offal  of  fish  (Devonshire). 

Gudgeon.  Gaping  for  gudgeons. 
Looking  out  for  things  extremely  im- 
luobable.  As  a  gudgeon  is  a  bait  to 
deceive  fish,  it  means  a  lie,  a  deception. 

To  swallov:  a  gudgeon.  To  be  bam- 
boozled with  a  most  palpable  lie,  as  silly 
fish  are  caught  by  gudgeons.  (French, 
goujon,  whence  the  phiuse  faire  avaler 
le  goujon,  to  humbug.) 

'•  JIake  fools  believe  in  their  foreseeing 
I  Of  tilings  before  they  are  in  being; 
,   To  swallow  gudgeons  ere  they've  catched. 
And  count  their  chickens  ere  they're  hatched. ' 
Buthr  :  Uudibins,  ii.  3. 

\  Gudrun.  A  model  of  heroic  forti- 
\  tude  and  pious  resignation.  She  was  a 
princess  betrothed  to  Herwig,  but  the 
King  of  Norway  carried  her  off  captive. 
As  she  would  not  man-y  him,  he  put  her 
to  all  sorts  of  menial  work,  such  as 
washing  the  dirty  linen.  One  day  her 
brother  and  lover  api^eared  on  the  scene, 
and  at  the  end  slie  married  Herwig, 
pardoned  the  "  naughty  "  king,  and  all 
went  merry  as  a  marriage  bell.  {A 
JVorfh-Sn.von  jwem.) 

'  Gudule  (2  syl. )  or  St.  Gudu'la,  patron 
saint  of  Brussels,  was  daughter  of  Count 
Witger,  died  172.      She  is  represented 


with  a  lantern,  from  a  tradition  that 
she  was  one  day  going  to  the  church 
of  St.  Morgellc  with  a  lantern,  which 
went  out,  but  the  holy  virgin  lighted  it 
again  with  her  prayers. 

>St.  Gudule  in  Christian  art  is  repre- 
sented carrying  a  lantern  which  a  demon 
tries  to  put  out.  The  legend  is  a  repeti- 
tion of  that  of  St.  Genevieve,  as  Brussels 
is  Paris  in  miniature. 

Gue'bres  or  Ghebcrs  \Fire-  Wor- 
shippcrii].  Followers  of  the  ancient 
Persian  religion,  reformed  by  Zoroaster. 
Called  in  Persian  gabr,  in  the  Talmud 
Cheber,  and  by  Origen  Kahir,  a  corrup- 
tion of  the  Arabic  Knjir  (a  non-Ma- 
hometan or  infidel),  a  temi  bestowed 
upon  them  by  their  Arabian  conquerors. 

Guelder  Rose  is  the  Rose  de  Guel- 
dre,  i.e.  of  the  ancient  province  of 
Guelder  or  Guelderlaud,  in  Holland. 

But  Smith,  in  his  English  Flora,  says 
it  is  a  corruption  of  Elder  Rose,  that  is, 
the  Rose  Elder,  the  tree  being  considered 
a  species  of  Elder,  and  hence  called  the 
"  Water  Elder." 

Guelpho  (3  sjd.),  son  of  Actius  IV., 
Marquis  d'Este  and  of  Cunigunda,  a 
Gemian,  King  of  Carynth'ia.  He  led 
an  army  of  5,000  men  from  Geimany, 
but  two -thirds  were  slain  by  the  Persians. 
He  was  noted  for  his  broad  shoulders 
and  ample  chest.  GueljAo  was  Riualdo's 
uncle,  and  next  in  command  to  Godf  rej'. 
{Tasso  :  Jerusalem  Bclivered,  iii.) 

Guelphs    and    Gbibellines.      Two 

great  j^arties  whose  conflicts  make  up 
the  histoiy  of  Italy  and  Germany  in  the 
twelfth,  thirteenth,  and  fourteenth  cen- 
turies. Guelph  is  the  Italian  form  of 
Welfe,  and  Ghibelline  of  jraiblingen, 
and  the  origin  of  these  two  words  is  this: 
At  the  battle  of  Weiusburg,  in  Suabia 
(1140),  Conrad,  Duke  of  Franconia, 
rallied  his  followers  with  the  war-cry 
Hie  Waiblingen  (his  family  estate) ,  Avhile 
Henry  the  Lion,  Duke  of  Saxony,  used 
the  cry  of  Hie  IFclf'e  (the  family  name). 
The  Ghibellines  supported  in  Italy  the 
side  of  the  German  emperors ;  the 
Guelphs  ojiposed  it,  and  stijiported  the 
cause  of  the  Pope. 

Guen'dolen  (3  syl.).  A  faiiy  whose 
mother  was  a  human  being.  One  day 
King  Arthur  wandered  into  the  valley 
of  St.  John,  when  a  fairy  palace  rose  to 
view,  and  a  train  of  ladies  conducted 
him  to  their  queen.  King  Arthur  and 
Guen'dolen  fell  in  love  with  each  other, 
and  the  fruit  of  their  illicit  love  was  a 
daughter  named    Gjnieth.       After    the 


GuendolcBna 


560 


Guides 


lapse  of  three  months  Arthur  left  Guen'- 
doleu,  aud  the  deserted  fair  one  oft'ei'ed 
him  a  parting  cnii.     As  Arthur  raised 
the  cup  a  drop  of  the  contents  fell  on 
his  horse,  and  so  burnt  it  that  the  horse 
leajDed  twenty  feet  high,  and  then  ran 
in   mad   career  up  the  liills  till  it  was 
exhausted.     Arthur  daslied  the  cuj)  on 
the  ground,  the  contents  burnt  uj)  every- 
thing they    touched,    the    fairy    i^alace 
vanished,    and    Guen'doleu    was    never 
more  seen.      This  tale    is  told    by   Sir 
Walter  Scott  in  The  Bridal  of  Trier iiiniu. 
It  is  called  L)jiilph''s  Talc,  from  canto  i. 
10  to  canto  ii.  28.     (&e  Gyneth.) 
"  Her  iiuitber  was  of  liuniau  Iiirth, 
Her  sire  a  Genie  nf  tlie  eartli, 
111  days  of  old  deemed  to  preside 
O'er  lover's  wile^*  and  lieautv's  pride.'' 

lii-uha  ijf  Tikrniahi.W.X 

Guendoloe'na,  daughter  of  Coriu'eus 
and  wife  of  Locrin,  son  of  Brute,  the 
legendary  king  of  Britain.  She  was 
divorced,  and  Locrin  married  Estrildis, 
by  -whom  he  already  had  a  daughter 
named  Sabri'na.  Guendoloe'na,  greatly 
indignant,  got  together  a  large  army, 
and  near  the  river  Stour  a  battle  -was 
fought,  in  which  Locrin  was  slain. 
Guendolos'na  now  assumed  the  govern- 
ment, and  one  of  her  first  acts  was  to 
tlirow  both  Estrildis  and  Sabri'na  into 
the  river  Severn.  {Ocoffrcy  :  Brit.  Hint., 
ii.  chaps.  4,  5.) 

Guenever.    {Sec  Guinevee.) 

Gueril'la,  improperly  Guerilla  irars, 
means  a  petty  war,  a  partisan  conflict ; 
and  tlie  parties  are  called  Guerillas  or 
Guerilla  chiefs.  Spanish,  gucr'ra,  war. 
The  word  is  apijlied  to  the  armed  bauds 
of  peasants  who  carry  on  irregular  war 
on  their  own  account,  especially  at  such 
time  as  their  Government  is  contending 
■with  invading  armies. 

"The  town  was  wlicdly  without  defenders,  and 
tlie  L;iierillas  iniinleied  people  and  destroyed 
property  without  liiiidrauee."— it-sSfTly  .-  ^United 
iStiitc)!,  ehap.  xviii.  p.  OTI^. 

Gueri'no  Meschi'no  [^7;^  Wretchecl]. 
An  Itahan  romance,  half  chivalric  and 
lialf  si^iritual,  first  printed  in  Padua  iu 
1473.  Guerin  was  the  son  of  Millou, 
King  of  Alba'nia.  On  the  day,  of  his 
birth  his  father  was  dethroned,  and  the 
child  was  rescued  by  a  Greek  slave,  aud 
called  Meschino.  When  he  grew  up  he 
fell  in  love  with  the  Princess  Elize'na, 
sister  of  the  Greek  Emperor,  at  Con- 
stantinople. 

Guess  (/).  A  peculiarity  of  the 
natives  of  New  England,  U.S.  America. 

Guest.  The.  Unf/ratefiil  Guest  was 
the  brand  fixed  by  P'hilip  of  Macedon  on 


a  Macedonian  soldier  who  had  been 
kindly  entertained  by  a  villager,  and, 
being  asked  by  the  king  what  he  could 
give  him,  requested  the  fannand  cottage 
of  his  entertainer. 

Gueux.  Les  Gneux.  The  ragamuf- 
fins. A  nickname  assumed  by  the  first 
revolutionists  of  Holland  in  1  (56.5.  It  arose 
thus :  When  the  Duchess  of  Parma  made 
inquiry  about  them  of  Coimt  Bcrlaymont, 
he  told  her  they  were  ' '  the  scum  and 
offscouring  of  the  peoj^le"  {les  r/ueiix). 
This  being  made  public,  the  party  took 
the  name  in  defiance,  and  from  tliiit 
moment  dressed  like  beggars,  substi- 
tuted a  fox's  tail  iu  lieu  of  a  feather, 
and  a  wooden  platter  instead  of  a  brooch. 
They  met  at  a  public-house  'which  had 
for  its  sign  a  coe/c  crowing  these  words, 
Vice  les  Gueux p<tr  tout  Ic  moudc '.  (See 
Motle]! :  Dutch  Bepublic,  ii.  6.) 

V  The  word  gneux  was,  of  course,  not 
invented  by  Berlaymout,  but  only  ap- 
plied by  him  to  tlie  deputation  referred 
to.  In  Spain,  long  before,  those  who 
opposed  the  Inquisition  were  so  called. 

N.B.  The  revolters  of  Guienue  as- 
sumed the  name  of  Eaters;  those  of 
Normandy  Barefoot;  those  of  Beausse 
and  Soulogne  irooclen-pattois ;  and  iu 
the  French  Revolution  the  most  violent 
were  termed  Saiiscalottes. 

Gugner.  A  spear  made  by  the  dwarf 
Eitri  and  given  to  Odin.  It  never  failed 
to  hit  and  slay  in  battle.     [The  Edcla.) 

Gui.  Le  Gui  (French).  The  mistle- 
toe or  Druid's  plant. 

Guide'rius.  The  elder  son  of  Cyni- 
beline,  a  legendary  king  of  Britain 
during  the  reign  of  Augustus  Ctesar. 
Both  Guiderius  aud  his  bro titer  Arvir'- 
agus  were  stolen  in  infancy  by  Bela'rius, 
a  bauished  nobleman,  out  of  revenge, 
and  were  brought  up  by  him  in  a  cave. 
When  grown  to  man's  estate,  the  Romans 
invaded  Britain,  and  the  two  young  men 
so  distinguished  themselves  that  they 
were  introduced  to  the  king,  and  Belarius 
related  their  history.  Geoffrey  of  Mon- 
mouth says  that  Guiderius  succeeded 
his  father,  and  was  slain  by  Hamo. 
{Shakespeare :  Ci/mbeliue.) 

Guides  (pron.  (/heed).  Contraction  of 
guidons.  A  corps  of  French  cavalry 
which  can'ies  the  guidon,  a  standard 
borne  by  light  horse-soldiers,  broad  at 
one  end  and  nearly  pointed  at  the  other. 
The  corps  des  Guides  was  organised  in 
1796  by  Napoleon  as  a  personal  body- 
guard ;  in  1848  several  squadi'ons  were 
created,  but   Napoleon   III.    made  the 


Guido 


561 


G-uineapig 


corps  a  part  of  the  Imperial  Guard. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  confound 
the  Guides  with  the  Gardes,  as  they  are 
totally  distinct  terms. 

Guido,  suruamed  the  Savage  (in  Or- 
lando I'/irioso),  son  of  Constautia  and 
Amon,  therefore  younger  brother  of 
Riualdo.  He  was  also  Astolpho's  kins- 
man. Being  wrecked  on  the  coast  of  the 
Amazons,  he  was  doomed  to  fight  their 
ten  male  champions.  He  slew  them  all, 
and  was  then  compelled  to  marry  ten  of 
the  Amazons.  He  made  his  escape  with 
Ale'ria,  his  favourite  wife,  and  joined  the 
army  of  Charlemagne. 

Guido  Francischini.  A  reduced 
nobleman,  who  tried  to  repair  his  for- 
tune by  marrying  Pompilia,  the  putative 
child  of  Pietro  and  Violante.  When 
the  marriage  was  consummated  and  the 
money  secure,  Guido  ill-treated  Pietro 
and  Violante  ;  whereupon  Violante,  at 
confession,  asserted  that  Pompilia  was 
not  her  cliild,  but  one  she  had  brought 
up,  the  offspring  of  a  Roman  wanton, 
and  she  applied  to  the  law-courts  to 
recover  her  money.  When  Guido  heard 
this  he  was  furious,  and  so  ill-treated 
liis  wife  that  she  ran  away  under  the 
jirotection  of  a  young  canon.  Guido 
pursued  the  fugitives,  overtook  them, 
and  had  them  arrested  ;  whereupon  the 
canon  was  suspended  for  three  years, 
and  Pompilia  sent  to  a  convent.  Here 
lier  health  gave  way,  and  as  the  birth  of 
a  child  was  expected,  she  was  permitted 
to  leave  the  convent  and  live  with  lier 
putative  parents.  Guido  went  to  the 
house,  murdered  all  three,  and  was 
executed.  {Broici/iii// :  'The  liing  and 
the  Book.) 

Guildhall.  The  hall  of  the  city 
guilds.  Here  are  tlie  Court  of  Common 
Council,  the  Court  of  Aldermen,  tlie 
Cliamberlain's  Court,  the  police  court 
presided  over  by  an  alderman,  etc.  The 
ancient  guilds  were  friendly  trade  socie- 
ties, in  which  each  member  jiaid  a  certain 
fee,  called  a  guild,  from  the  Saxon  gUdan 
(to  pay).  There  was  a  separate  guild 
for  each  craft  of  importance. 

"Rild  [ifuikl]  signified  among  the  Saxons  a 
fraternity.  Derived  from  the  verb  giitd-an  (to 
liay),  l)ecause  every  man  paid  liis  s\ia,Ye."—Blm-k- 
stniie:  Commentaries,  liook  i.  chap,  xviii.  p.  474 
(note). 

Guillotine  (3  syl.).  So  named  from 
Joseph  Ignace  Guillotin,  a  French  phy- 
sician, who  proposed  its  adoption  to  pre- 
vent uimecessary  pain  (1738-1814). 

V  It  was  facetiously  called  "  Mdlle. 
Guillotin"  or  "  Guillotin's  daughter." 
It  was  introduced  April  2oth,  1792,  and 

36 


is  still  used  in  France.  A  previous  in- 
strument invented  by  Dr.  Antoine  Louis 
was  called  a  Louisette  (3  syl.). 

The  Maiden  i'/.r.),  introduced  into 
Scotland  (loGG)  by  the  Regent  Morton, 
when  the  laird  of  Peuuicuick  was  to  be 
beheaded,  was  a  similar  instrument. 
Discontinued  in  1681. 

"  It  was  Imt  tbis  very  day  that  the  daughter  of 
M.  de  (4iiillotin  was  recognised  by  her  father  in 
tlie  National  Assembly  and  it  should  properly  be 
called  '  Mademoiselle  (JuiUotin.'  "—Dumas  :  The 
Countess  de  Cliarny,  chap.  xvii. 

Guinea.  Sir  Robert  Holmes,  in  1666, 
captured  in  Schelling  Bay  160  Dutch 
sail,  containing  bullion  and  gold-dust 
from  Cape  Coast  Castle  in  Guinea.  This 
rich  prize  was  coined  into  gold  pieces, 
stamped  with  an  elephant,  and  called 
Guineas  to  memorialise  the  valuable 
capture.  (See  Dnjden  :  Annus  Mira- 
biUs.) 

Gaxnea.  The  legend  is  M.  B.  F.  et  H. 
Rex.  F.  D.  B.  L.  D.  S.  R.  I.  A.  T.  et  E. 
— Magnee  Britanniffi,  Fraucise,  et  Hiber- 
nite  Rex  ;  Fidei  Defensor ;  Bruusvicensis, 
Lunenburgensis  Dux  ;  Sacri  Romani  Im- 
perii Archi  Thesaurarius  et  Elector. 

•.■  (Tninea-pieci'S  =  L'ls  woro  first  coined  in  Ifira, 
and  disciintinufd  in  1>17.  The  sa  t-reiu'ii  cnined 
by  HeiUN  VIl.  in  UMi  wa^disphii-r.l  l>y  tlic  u-uinea, 
bnt  recomed  in  \>\:t,  soon  after  which  it  disi'iaced 
the  guinea.  Of  course,  2ns.  is  a  better  decimal 
coin  than  l.'ls. 

Guinea-dropper.  A  cheat.  The 
term  is  about  equal  to  thimble-rig,  and 
alludes  to  an  ancient  cheating  dodge  of 
dropping  counterfeit  guineas. 

Guinea  Fowl.  So  called  because  it 
was  brought  to  us  from  the  coast  of 
Guinea,  where  it  is  very  common. 

"Notwithstanding  their  harsh  cry  ...  I  like 
the  tininea-fowl.  They  are  excellent  layers,  and 
encirinons  devoiircrs  of  insects.'"— Z).  G.  Mitchell: 
My  Farm  of  £dgeicoud,  chap.  iii.  p.  192. 

Guinea-ben.  A  courtesan  who  is 
■won  by  money. 

"Ere  ....  I  wonld  drown  niysOf  for  the  love 
of  a  (Jninea-hen,  1  wonld  change  my  humanity 
with  a  ]}a,\ioon."—Shakcspeare :  Othello,  i.  3. 

Guineapig  (Stock  Exchange  term). 
A  gentleman  of  sufticient  name  to  form 
a  bait  who  allows  liimself  to  be  put  on 
a  directors'  list  for  the  guinea  a)ul  luneh 
provided  for  the  board.    {See  Floatees.) 

Guineapig  {A).  A  midshipman.  A 
guineapig  is  neither  a  pig  nor  a  native 
of  Guinea  ;  so  a  middy  is  neither  a  sailor 
nor  an  officer. 

"  He  had  a  letter  from  the  captain  of  the 
Titdiamun,  offering  yon  a  berth  on  board  as 
gniiieajiig,  or  midshipman."— Copfaiu  Marryat: 
I'oor  Jack,  chap.  xsxi. 

V  A  special  juryman  who  is  paid  a 
guinea  a  case;    also  a  military    officer 


Guineapig 


562 


Gulf   Stream 


assigned  to  some  special  duty,  for  which 
he  receives  a  guinea  a  day,  are  sometimes 
so  called. 

Guineapig  (A),  in  the  Anglican 
Church,  is  a  clergyman  without  cure, 
who  takes  occasional  duty  for  a  guinea 
a  sermon,  besides  his  travelling  expenses 
(second  class)  and  his  board,  if  reqiured. 

Guin'ever,  or  rather  Gnanhnma'ra 
(4  syl.).  Daughter  of  Leodograunce  of 
Cam'elyard,  the  most  beautiful  of  women, 
and  wife  of  King  Arthur.  She  enter- 
tained a  guilty  passion  for  Sir  Launcelot 
of  the  Lake,  one  of  the  knights  of  the 
Eoiiud  Table,  but  during  the  absence  of 
King  Arthur  in  his  expedition  against 
Leo,  King  of  the  Romans,  she ' '  married ' ' 
Modred,  her  husband's  nephew,  whom 
he  had  left  in  charge  of  tlie  kingdom. 
Soon  as  Arthur  heard  thereof,  he  has- 
tened back,  Guinever  fled  from  York  and 
took  the  veil  in  the  nimnery  of  Julius 
the  Martyr,  and  Modred  set  his  forces  in 
array  at  Cam'bula,  in  Cornwall.  Here  a 
desperate  battle  was  fought,  in  which 
Modred  was  slain  and  Arthur  mortally 
wounded.  Guinever  is  generally  called 
the  "grey-eyed;"  she  was  buried  at 
Meigle,  in  Stratlimore,  and  her  name 
has  become  the  synonym  of  a  wanton 
or  adulteress.  {Geoffrey:  Brit.  Hist., 
X.  13.) 

"  Tliat.  was  a  woman  vlion  Qiioi^n  flniiievcr  of 
Britain  was  a  liitlc  wi'ucb." — Sliulitupeare:  Love's 
Labour's  Lost,  iv.  1. 

Guin'evere  (3  syl.).  Tennyson's 
Jt/i/H  rejiresents  her  as  loving  Sir  Lance- 
lot ;  but  one  day,  when  they  were 
bidding  farewell,  Modred  tracked  them, 
"  and  brought  his  creatures  to  the  base- 
ment of  the  tower  for  testimony."  Sir 
Lancelot  hurled  the  fellow  to  the  ground 
and  got  to  horse,  and  the  queen  fled  to 
a  nunnery  at  Almesbury.     {See  Guin- 

EVEE.) 

Guingelot.  The  boat  of  Wato  or 
W((de,  the  father  of  Weland,  and  son  of 
Vilkinr,  in  which  he  crossed  over  the 
nine-ell  deep,  called  Grceuasuud,  with 
his  sou  upon  his  shoulders.  {Scaiidi- 
iiavian  mytJioIogi/.) 

Guisan'do.  The  Bulls  of  G/iis/Dido. 
Five  monster  statues  of  antiquity,  to 
mark  the  scene  of  Crosar's  victory  over 
the  younger  Pompey. 

Guise's  Motto:  ^'  A  elinnui  aoii  to/ir,^' 
on  the  standards  of  the  Due  de  Guise, 
who  put  himself  at  the  head  of  the  Ca- 
tholic League  in  the  sixteenth  century, 
meant,  "  My  turn  will  come." 


Guitar  (Greek,  kithara ;  Latin,  ci- 
thara  ;  Italian,  ehitarra  ;  French,  gui- 
tare.  The  Greek  kithar  is  the  Hindu 
eha-titr  (six-strings). 

Guitar.  Tlie  best  players  on  tliis 
instrument  have  been  Guilia'ni,  Sor, 
Zoechi,  StoU,  and  Horetzsky. 

Gules  [red] .  An  heraldic  term.  Tlie 
most  honourable  heraldic  colour,  sig- 
nifying valour,  justice,  and  veneration. 
Hence  it  was  given  to  kings  and  princes. 
The  royal  livery  of  England  is  gules  or 
scarlet.  In  heraldry  expressed  by  j^er- 
pendicular  parallel  lines.  (Persian,  tjhul, 
rose  ;  French,  gueiilcs,  the  mouth  and 
throat,  or  the  red  colour  tliereof  ;  Latin, 
giihi,  the  throat.) 

"Witli  man's  ))looil  paint   the  grouml,  Rnlc-i, 

ynlos." 

Shakespeare :  Timim  of  Ailim^,  iv.  3. 
"And   lliivw  warm   irulos  on   Madeline's  fail 

lireast."  Kftits:  Eve  nf  til.  Aijues. 

Gules  of  August  (  TIk)  .  The  1st  of 
August  (from  Latin,  (iiil((,  the  throat), 
the  entrance  into,  or  flrst  day  of  that 
month.  ( irharto/i  :  Law  Le.cicuii,  p.  332.) 

V  August  1  is  Lammas  Day,  a  quarter- 
day  in  Scotland,  and  lialf-quarter-day 
in  England. 

"'Gula  Angusti'  initium  nicnsis  Ancrnsti.  le 
Gnle  d'Angust,  in  staliui  Edw.  III.,a.ai  c.  1-f,  av- 
craijiinii  a'stivalc  fieri  dibet  inter  Hol^edai  et  (iiilam 
A  i((iiiMi."—lJucange :  Cllvssuriuin Manuale,  vol.  iii. 
p.  tsC«. 

('•  Ilokedny  est  dies  Martis,  qui  quindenam 
Pascbre  expletani  pruxinje  exiliiit."— Vol.  iv.  Ii.  to 
col.  1.] 

Gulf.  A  man  that  goes  in  for  lionour 
at  Cambridge — i.e.  a  mathematical  de- 
gree— is  sometimes  too  bad  to  be  classed 
with  the  lowest  of  the  three  classes,  and 
yet  has  shown  sufficient  merit  to  pass. 
When  the  list  is  made  out  a  line  is  drawn 
after  the  classes,  and  one  or  two  names 
are  appended.  These  names  are  in  the 
gulf,  and  those  so  honoxired  are  gulfed. 
In  the  good  old  times  the.se  men  were 
not  qualified  to  stand  for  the  classical 
trijjos. 

"The  ranks  of  onr  cnratehond  are  snpplied  by 
viiiiibs  A\lMini,at  tbe  very  liest,  niercifnl  exanii- 
iu'is  li;nr  rai^rd  from  the  very  gates  of  'pluck' 
to   liic  iionjarative   paradise  of  tbe   'Uulf.'"— 

.Sutiinlay  Jtci-icw. 

A  great  gulf  fixed.  An  impassable 
separation  or  divergence.  From  the 
parable  of  Dives  and  Lazarus,  in  the 
third  Gospel.     (Luke  xvi.  26.) 

Gulf  Stream.  The  stream  wliicli 
issues  from  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  and 
extends  over  a  range  of  3,000  miles, 
raising  the  temperature  of  the  water 
through  which  it  passes,  and  of  the  lands 
against  which  it  flows.     It  washes  the 


Gulistan 


563 


Gun  Room 


shores  of  the  British  Isles,  and  runs  up 
the  coast  of  Norway. 

"  It  is  £ouml  tliat  the  amount  nf  heat  transferred 
by  tlie  (iiilf  Stream  from  equatorial  regions  into 
the  N.irlh  AthuUic  .  .  .  amounts  to  no  less  tlian 
one-tlfth  ]K\n  of  the  entire  heat  iiossesseil  by  the 
Korili  Athiutio."— r.  Crutl:  Climate  and  Time, 
c\mv.  i.  1>.  15. 

Gulistan  {garden  of  roses].  The 
famous  recueil  of  moral  sentences  by 
Saadi,  the  poet  of  Sliiraz,  who  died  1291. 
(Persian, yhiil,  a  rose,  and  tan,  a  region.) 

Gull  (rhj-mes  with  dull).  A  dupe, 
one  easily  cheated.     {See  Bejan.) 

"  The  must  notorious  geek  and  gull 
That  e'er  invention  played  on." 

Shal:esi>e(ire:  Twelfth  Kiyld,  \.  1. 

Gulliver  {Lemuel).  The  hero  of 
the  famous  Trarels  into  Several  Jiemotc 
Nations  of  the  World,  Inj  Lemuel  Gulliver, 
first  a  Sun/eon,  and.  then  a  (ktptuln  of 
several  Ships,  i.e.  to  Lilliput,  Brobding- 
nag,  Lajiu'ta,  and  the  Houj'linhnms 
{Jf7(in-nims),  written  by  Dr.  Swift, 
Dean  of  St.  Patrick's,  Ireland. 

Gulna're  (2  syl.),  afterwards  called 
Kaled,  queen  of  the  harem,  and  fairest 
of  all  the  slaves  of  Seyd  [Seed].  She 
was  rescued  from  the  flaming  jjalaco  by 
Lord  Conrad,  the  corsair,  and  when  the 
corsair  was  imjirisoned  released  him 
and  murdered  the  Sultan.  Tlic  two 
escaped  to  the  Pirate's  Isle ;  but  when 
Conrad  found  that  Medo'ra,  his  be- 
trothed, was  dead,  he  and  Gulnare  left 
the  island  secretly,  and  none  of  the 
pirates  ever  knew  where  they  went  to. 
The  rest  of  the  tale  of  Gulnare  is  under 
the  new  name,  Kaled  {q.v.).  {Byron: 
The  Corsair.) 

Gummed  (1  syl.).  He  frets  like 
gummed  velvet  or  gummed  taffety.  Velvet 
and  taffeta  were  sometimes  stiffened 
with  gum  to  make  them  "sit  better," 
but,  being  very  stiff,  they  fretted  out 
quickly. 

Gumption.  Wit  to  turn  things  to 
account,  capacity.  In  Yorkshu'e  we 
hear  the  phrase,  "I  canua  gaum  it" 
(uudorstand  it,  make  it  out),  and  gaum- 
tion  is  tlie  capacity  of  understanding, 
etc.     (Irish,  gomsh,  sense,  cuteness.) 

"  Though  his  eyes  -were  dazzled  with  the  splen- 
dour of  the  jilace,  faith  be  had  oumtth  enough  not 
to  let  go  his  hold." — Dublin  and  London  Mmjazinc, 
iSio  (Loughleagh). 

Gumption.  A  nostrum  much  in  request 
by  painters  in  search  of  the  supposed 
"  lost  medium"  of  the  old  masters,  and 
to  which  their  unapproachable  excellence 
is  ascribed.  The  medium  is  made  of 
gum  mastic  and  linseed-oil. 

Gun.     (Welsh  givn,  a  gun.) 


Cannons  and  Eifles. 

Armstrong  gun.  A  -WTOUght-iron  can- 
non, usually  breech-loadiug,  having  an 
iron-hooped  steel  inner  tube.  Designed 
by  Sir  William  Armstrong  in  1804,  and 
officially  tested  in  18G1. 

Eiifeld  rifes.  Invented  by  Pritchett 
at  the  Enfiekl  factory,  adopted  in  the 
English  anny  18.52,  and  converted  into 
Snider  breech-loaders  in  1866. 

Gatling  gun.  A  machine  gun  with 
parallel  barrels  about  a  central  axis,  each 
having  its  own  lock.  Capable  of  being 
loaded  and  of  discharging  1,000  shots  a 
minute  by  turning  a  crank.  Named  from 
the  inventor.  Dr.  R.  J.  Gatling. 

Lvrupp  gun.  A  cannon  of  ingot  steel, 
made  at  Krujip's  works,  at  Essen,  in 
Prussia. 

Laneaster  gun.  A  cannon  having  a 
slightly  ellii^tical  twisted  bore,  and  a 
conoid  (2  syl.)  projectile.  Named  from 
the  inventor. 

Minii  rifle.  Invented  in  1849,  and 
adoijted  in  the  English  army  in  1851. 
Named  after  Claude  Miuie',  a  French 
officer.     (1810-1879.) 

Snider  rifle.  Invented  by  Jacob 
Snider.  A  breech-loader  adopted  by  the 
British  Government  in  1866. 

Vhitivorth  gun.  An  English  rifled 
flrearm  of  'hexagonal  bore,  and  very 
rapid  twist.  Constructed  in  18o7.  Its 
competitive  trial  Avith  the  Armstrong 
guu  in  1861.  Named  after  Sir  Joseph 
Whitworth,  the  inventor  (1803-1887)._ 

Woolwieh  infant  {The).  A  British 
3o-ton  rifled  muzzle-loading  cannon, 
having  a  steel  tube  hooped  with  wrought- 
iron  coils.  Constructed  in  1870.  {See 
Beown  Bess,  Miteailleusb,  etc.) 

Gun.  A  hrceeh -loading  gun.  A  guu 
loaded  at  the  breech,  which  is  then 
clo.sed  by  a  screw  or  wedge-block. 

Evening  or  sunset  gun.  A  guu  fired 
at  sunset,  or  about  9  o'clock  p.m. 

Gun  Cotton.  A  highly  explosive 
compound,  prepared  by  saturating  cotton 
Avith  nitric  and  sulphuric  acids. 

Gun  Money.  Money  issued  in  Ire- 
land by  James  II.,  made  of  old  brass 
cannons. 

Gun  Room.  A  room  in  the  after- 
part  of  a  lower  gun-deck  for  the  accom- 
modation of  junior  officers. 

Gun  Phrases. 

7/c's  a  great  gun.     A  man  of  note. 

So-n  of  a  gun.    A  jovial  fellow. 

Sure  as  a  guu.  Quite  certain.  It  is 
as  certain  to  happen  as  a  gun  to  go  off'  if 
the  trigger  is  pulled. 


Guns 


564 


Gutter  Lane 


Guns.  To  hhw  great  gii))s.  To  be 
very  boisterous  aud  wiudy.  Noisy  aud 
boisterous  as  the  reports  of  great  guns. 

To  run,  au-ay  from  their  oiru  i/niis.  To 
cat  their  own  words  ;  desert  what  is 
laid  down  as  a  principle.  The  allusion 
is  obvious. 

"  The  Govei'iiment  could  not,  of  course,  run 
.away  from  tboir  i;uiis."— Nineteenth  Century,  Feb., 
1S1I3,  I).  l'J3. 

Gunga  [pronounce  Gioi-jah'].  The 
goddess  of  the  Ganges.  Bishoi^  Heber 
calls  the  river  by  this  name. 

Gunner.  Kissing  the  gunner'' s  daugh- 
ter. Being  flogged  on  board  ship.  At 
one  time  boys  in  the  Eoyal  Navy  who 
were  to  be  flogged  were  first  tied  to  the 
breech  of  a  cannon. 

Gunpowder  Plot.  The  project  of  a 
few  Roman  Catholics  to  destroy  James 
I.  with  the  Lords  and  Commons  as- 
sembled in  the  Houses  of  Parliament,  on 
tlie  5th  of  November,  1605.  It  was  to 
be  done  by  means  of  gimpowder  when 
the  king  went  in  person  to  open  Parlia- 
ment. Robert  Catesby  originated  the 
plot,  and  Guy  Fawkes  imdertook  to  fire 
the  gimpowder,     {See  Dynamite  Satue- 

DAY.) 

Gunter's  Chain,  for  laud  surveying, 
is  so  named  from  Edmund  Gunter,  its 
inventor  (1581-1626).  It  is  sixty-six 
feet  long,  and  divided  into  oneTiundred 
links.  As  ten  square  chains  make  an 
acre,  it  follows  that  an  acre  contains 
100,000  square  links. 

Aeeording  to  Gunter.  According  to 
measurement  by  Gunter's  .chain. 

Giinther.  King  of  Burgundy  and 
brother  of  Kriem'hild.  He  resolved  to 
wed  Brunhild,  the  martial  queen  of  Iss- 
laud,  who  had  made  a  vow  that  none 
should  win  her  who  coiild  not  surpass 
her  in  three  trials  of  skill  aud  strength. 
The  first  was  hurling  a  sjicar,  the  second 
throwing  a  stone,  and  the  third  was 
jumping.  The  sjDcar  could  scarcely  be 
lifted  by  three  men.  The  queen  hurled 
it  towards  Giinther,  when  Siegfried,  in 
Ids  invisible  cloak,  reversed  it,  hurled  it 
back  again,  and  the  queen  was  knocked 
do^vn.  The  stone  took  twelve  brawny 
champions  to  carry,  but  Brunhild  lifted 
it  on  high,  flung  it  twelve  fathoms,  and 
jumped  beyond  it.  Again  the  unseen 
Hiegfried  came  to  his  friend's  rescue, 
flung  the  stone  still  farther,  and,  as  he 
leaped,  bore  Giinther  with  him.  The 
queen,  overmastered,  exclaimed  to  her 
subjects,  "I  am  no  more  your  mis- 
ti-ess;     you    are    Giiuther's     liegemen 


now"  (i(V'(7,  vii.).  After  the  marriage 
the  masculine  maid  behaved  so  obstre- 
perously that  Giinther  had  again  to  avail 
himself  of  his  friend's  aid.  Siegfried 
entered  the  chamber  in  his  cloud-cloak, 
and  wrestled  with  the  bride  till  all  her 
strength  was  gone  ;  then  he  drew  a  ring 
from  her  finger,  and  took  away  lier 
girdle.  After  which  he  left  her,  aud  she 
became  a  submissive  wife.  Giinther, 
with  impardonable  iugi-atitudc,  was 
privy  to  the  murder  of  his  friend  and 
brother-in-law,  and  was  himself  slain 
in  the  dungeon  of  Etzel's  palace  by  his 
sister  Kriemhild.  In  history  this  Bur- 
gundian  king  is  called  Giin'tacher.  {The 
Kibelu)igc)i  -  L  ied. ) 

Gurgoils.    (Sec  Gaugouille.) 

Gurme  (2  syl.).  The  Celtic  Cer'be- 
rus.  While  the  Avorld  lasts  it  is  fastened 
at  the  mouth  of  a  vast  cave  ;  but  at  the 
end  of  the  world  it  will  be  let  loose, 
when  it  will  attack  Tj-r,  the  war-god, 
aud  kill  him. 

Gurney  Light.    (.SccBude.) 

Guth'lac  {St.),  of  Crowland,  Lincoln- 
shire, is  represented  in  Christian  art  as  a 
hermit  punishing  demons  with  a  scourge, 
or  consoled  by  angels  while  demons 
torment  liim, 

Guthrum.  Silver  of  Gu thrum,  or 
sihcr  of  Gut]irum\s  Lane.  Fine  silver 
was  at  one  time  so  called,  because  the 
chief  gold  and  silver  smiths  of  London 
resided  there  in  the  thirteenth  and 
fourteenth  centuries.  The  hall  of  the 
Goldsmiths'  Company  is  still  in  the  same 
localitj'.  {liileg  :  JIunimoita  Gtldhallcc.) 

Guttapercha.  The  juice  of  the 
percha-tree  {Isonandra  pereha)  of  the 
family  called  Sapotaecc.  The  pereha 
trees  grow  to  a  great  height,  and  abound 
in  all  the  Malacca  Islands.  The  juice  is 
obtained  by  cutting  the  bark.  Gutta- 
percha was  brought  over  by  Dr.  William 
Montgomerie  in  1843,  but  articles  made 
of  this  resin  were  known  in  Europe  some 
time  before.     (Latin,  gutta,  a  drop.) 

Gutter.  Out  of  the  gutter.  Of  low 
bii'th ;  of  the  street -Arab  class  one  of 
the  submerged. 

Gutter  Children.     Street  Arabs. 

Gutter  Lane  (London).  A  corrup- 
tion of  Guthurun  Lane,  from  a  Mr. 
Gutluirun,  Goderoune,  or  Guthrum, 
who,  as  Stow  informs  us,  "possessed 
the  chief  property  therein."  {See 
GuTimuM.) 

All  goes  down  Gutter  Lane,   He  spends 


Guy 


565 


Gyneth 


evei-j'tliing  on  his  stomach.  The  play  is 
between  Gutter  Lane,  Loudon,  and 
(juttur  (the  throat),  preserved  in  our 
word  (jntiural  (a  throat  letter). 

Guy.  The  Guiscr  or  Guinard  was  the 
ancient  Scotch  mummer,  who  played 
before  Yule  ;  hence  our  words  guise, 
disfjiii.se,  ff>i>/,  etc. 

'  Guy  {Thomas).  Miser  and  philan- 
thropist. He  amassed  an  immense  for- 
tune in  1720  by  speculations  in  the 
South  Sea  Stock,  and  gave  £238,292  to 
found  and  endow  Guy's  Hospital. 

Guy  Fawkes,  or  Guido  Fawkes,  went 
under  the  name  of  John  Johnstone,  the 
servant  of  Mr.  Percj'. 

Guy,  Earl  of  Warwick.  An  Anglo- 
Danish  hero  of  wonderful  puissance. 
He  was  in  love  with  fair  Phelis  or  Felice, 
who  refused  to  listen  to  his  suit  till  he 
had  distinguished  himself  by  knightly 
deeds.  First,  he  rescued  the  daughter 
of  the  Emperor  of  Germany  ' '  from 
many  a  valiant  knight ;  "  then  he  went 
to  Greece  to  fight  agamst  the  Saracens, 
and  slew  the  doughty  Coldran,  Elmaye 
King  of  Tyre,  and  the  soldau  himself. 
Then  retiuued  he  to  England  and 
wedded  Phelis ;  but  in  forty  days  he 
returned  to  the  Holy  Land,  where  he 
redeemed  Earl  Jonas  out  of  prison,  slew 
the  giant  Am'arant,  and  many  others. 
He  again  returned  to  England,  and 
slew  at  Winchester,  in  single  combat, 
Colbronde  or  Colbrand,  the  Danish 
giant,  and  thus  redeemed  England  from 
Danish  tribute.  At  Windsor  he  slew  a 
boar  of  "passing  might  and  strength." 
On  Dunsmore  Heath  he  slew  the  "  Dun- 
cow  of  Dunsmore,  a  monstrous  wyld 
and  cruell  beast."  In  Northumberland 
he  slew  a  dragon  "  black  as  any  cole," 
with  lion's  jjaws,  wings,  and  a  hide 
which  no  sword  could  pierce.  Having 
acliieved  all  this,  he  became  a  hermit  in 
Warwick,  and  hewed  himself  a  cave  a 
mile  from  the  town.  Daily  he  went  to 
his  own  castle,  where  he  was  not  known, 
and  begged  bread  of  his  own  wife 
Phelis.  On  his  death-bed  he  sent  Phelis 
a  ring,  by  which  she  recognised  her 
lord,  and  went  to  close  his  dying  eyes. 
(890-958.)  His  combat  \vith  Colbrand 
is  very  elaborately  told  by  Draj-ton 
(1563-1631)  in  his  I'oli/olbion. 

"  I  am  not  Snmpson,  nor  Sir  Guy,  nor  Colln-and, 
to  mow  them  down  before  me,' — Shakespeare: 
Ileiaij  VIH.,  \.  3. 

Guy-ropes.  Guide,  or  giiiding-ropes, 
to  steady  lieavy  goods  while  a-hoistiug. 
(Spanish  and  Portuguese  gida,  from 
f/Hiar,  to  guide.) 


Guyon  {Sir).  The  impersonation  of 
Temperance  or  Self-government.  He 
destroyed  the  witch  Acra'sia,  and  her 
bower,  aiUed  the  "Bower  of  Bliss." 
His  companion  was  Prudence.  {Spenser  : 
Faerie  Qxeeue,  book  ii.) 

The  word  Guyon  is  the  Spanish  guiar 
(to  guide),  and  the  word  temperance  is 
the  Latin  tem'pcro  (to  guide). 

Gwynn  {XelT).  An  actress,  and  one 
of  the  courtesans  of  Charles  II,  of  Eng- 
land (died  1687).  Sir  Walter  Scott 
speaks  of  her  twice  in  I'ereril  of  the 
Peak ;  in  chap.  xi.  he  speaks  of  ' '  the 
smart  humour  of  Mrs.  Nelly ;  "  and  in 
chap.  xl.  Lord  Chaffinch  says  of  "  Mrs. 
Nelly,  wit  she  has  ;  let  her  keep  herself 
warm  with  it  in  worse  companj%  for  the 
cant  of  strollers  is  not  language  for  a 
prince's  chamber." 

Gyges'  Ring  rendered  the  wearer 
invisible.  Gyges,  the  Lydian,  is  the 
person  to  whom  Candau'les  showed  bis 
wife  naked.  According  to  Plato,  Gyges 
descended  into  a  chasm  of  the  earth, 
where  he  found  a  brazen  horse  ;  opening 
the  sides  of  the  animal,  he  found  the 
carcase  of  a  man,  from  whose  finger  he 
drew  off  a  brazen  ring  which  rendered 
him  invisible,  and  by  means  of  this  ring 
he  entered  into  the  king's  chamber  and 
murdered  liim. 

"  Why,  did  you  think  that  ,vou  had  Gyees  rinpr, 
Or  the  herl)  that  gives  invisibility  [feru-seed]  ?" 
Beaumont  and  t'lctchcr :  Fair  Maid  of  the  hm,  1. 1. 

T/ie  u-ealth  of  Gyges.  Gyges  was  a 
Lydian  king,  who  married  Nyssia,  the 
young  vridow  of  Candaules,  and  reigned 
thirty-eight  years.  He  amassed  such 
wealth  that  his  name  became  proverbial. 
(Reigned  B.C.  716-678.) 

Gymnas'tics.  Athletic  games.  The 
word  is  from  ggmna' sium,  a  public  jslace 
set  apart  in  Greece  for  athletic  sports, 
the  actors  in  which  were  naked.  (Greek, 
gumnos,  naked.) 

Gjnnnos'ophists.  A  sect  of  Indian 
philosophers  wlio  went  about  with  naked 
feet  and  almost  without  clothing.  They 
lived  in  woods,  subsisted  on  roots,  and 
never  married.  They  believed  in  the 
transmigration  of  souls.  Strabo  divides 
them  into  Brahmins  and  Samans.  (Greek, 
gaiinios,  naked;  sophisies,  sages.) 

Gy'neth.  Natural  daughter  of  Guen'- 
dolen  and  King  Arthur.  Arthur  swore 
to  Guendolen  that  if  she  brought  forth  a 
boy,  he  should  be  his  heir,  and  if  a  girl, 
he  would  give  her  in  marriage  to  the 
brayest  knight  of  his  kingdom.     On^ 


Gyp 


566 


Habeas  Corpus 


Pentecost  a  beautiful  damsel  presented 
herself  to  Kiug  Ai-thm-,  and  claimed  the 
promise  made  to  Gueudolen.  Accord- 
ingly, a  tournament  was  jjroclaimed,  and 
the  warder  given  to  Gyueth.  The  king 
iwayed  her  to  drojj  the  warder  before  the 
combat  turned  to  earnest  warfare,  but 
Gyueth  hauglitily  refused,  and  twenty 
kniglits  of  the  Kound  Table  fell  in  the 
tournament,  amongst  whom  was  young 
Vauoc,  son  of  Merlin.  Immediately  Vanoc 
fell,  the  form  of  Merlin  rose,  put  a  stop 
to  the  fight,  and  caused  Gynetli  to  fall 
into  a  trance  in  the  Valley  of  St.  John, 
from  which  she  was  never  to  awake  till 
some  knight  came  forward  for  her  hand 
as  brave  as  those  wliich  were  slain  in 
the  touruay.  Five  hundred  years  ^lassed 
away  before  the  spell  was  broken,  and 
then  De  Vaux  imdertook  the  adven- 
ture of  breaking  it.  He  overcame  four 
temptations — fear,  avarice,  pleasure,  and 
ambition — when  Gyueth  awoke,  the  en- 
chantment was  dissolved,  and  G3'ueth 
became  the  bride  of  the  bold  warrior. 
(Sir  li'altcv  IScott :  lirldal  of  Tricrinutn, 
chap,  ii.) 

Gyp.  A  college  servant,  whose  oflRco 
is  that  of  a  gentleman's  valet,  waiting 
on  two  or  more  collegians  in  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge.  He  differs  from  a 
bed-maker,  inasmuch  as  he  does  not 
make  beds :  but  he  runs  on  errands, 
waits  at  table,  wakes  men  for  morning 
chaj)el,  brushes  their  clothes,  and  so  on. 
His  perquisites  are  innumerable,  and  he 
is  called  a  gyp  {vulture,  Greek)  because 
he  preys  upon  his  employer  like  a  vul- 
ture.   At  Oxford  they  are  called  scouts. 

Gypsy.    {Svc  Gipsy.) 

Gyrfalcon,  Gerfalcon,  or  Jcrfalcou. 
A  native  of  Iceland  and  Norway,  highest 
in  the  list  of  hawks  for  falcomy.  "  Gyr," 
or  "  Ger,"  is,  I  think,  the  Dutch  gier,  a 
vulture.  It  is  called  the  "  vulture- 
falcon "  because,  like  the  vulture,  its 
beak  is  not  toothed.  The  common  ety- 
mology from  Iticros,  sacred,  ''because 
the  Egyptians  held  the  hawk  to  be 
sacred,"  is  utterly  wortldess.  Besides 
Ger-falcons,  we  have  Gier- eagles,  Lam- 
mer-geiers,  etc.     (See  Ha'we;.) 

Gyromancy.  A  kind  of  divination 
performed  by  walkuig  round  in  a  cii'cle 
or  ring. 

Gytrash.  A  north-of -England  spirit, 
"which,  in  the  form  of  horse,  mule,  or 
large  dog,  haunts  solitary  ways,  and 
sometunes  comes  upon  belated  travellers. 

"  I  remeral)ere(l  certain  of  Bessie's  tales,  wherein 
fifrured  a  .  .  .  spirit  called  a  Gytrash,"— C/tartotie 
Bronti :  Jane  Eyre,  xil. 


H. 

H.  Tliis  letter  represents  a  style  or 
hetlge.  It  is  called  in  Hebrew  l(eth  or 
cheth  (a  hedge). 

H.B.  (Mr.  Doyle,  father  of  Mr. 
Eicliard  Doyle,  connected  with  I'uncli). 
Tills  political  caricaturist  died  18G8. 

H.M.S.  His  or  Her  Majesty's  service 
or  shiji,  as  H.M.S.  U'el/iuijtoit. 

H.  U.     Hard  up. 

Halicas  Corpus.  Tlie  "  Habeas 
Corpus  Act"  was  23assed  in  the  reign  of 
Charles  II.,  and  defined  a  provision  of 
similar  character  in  Magna  Cliarta,  to 
which  also  it  added  certain  details.  The 
Act  provides  (1)  That  any  man  taken 
to  prison  can  insist  that  the  person  who 
charges  him  with  crime  shall  bring  him 
bodily  befoi'c  a  judge,  and  state  the  why 
and  wherefore  of  his  detention.  As  soon 
as  this  is  done,  the  judge  is  to  decide 
whether  or  not  the  accused  is  to  be  ad- 
mitted to  bail.  [No  one,  therefore,  can 
be  imprisoned  on  mere  susjiiciou,  and 
no  one  can  bo  left  in  prison  any  inde- 
finite time  at  the  caprice  of  the  jiowcrs 
that  be.  Imprisonment,  in  fact,  must  be 
cither  for  punishment  after  conviction, 
or  for  safe  custody  till  the  time  of  trial.] 

(2)  It  provides  that  every  f)ersou  ac- 
cused of  crime  shall  liave  the  question 
of  his  guilt  decided  by  a  jury  of  twelve 
men,  and  not  by  a  GoA'emment  agent  or 
nominee. 

(3)  No  prisoner  can  be  tried  a  second 
time  on  the  same  charge. 

(4)  Every  prisoner  maj-  insist  on  being 
examined  within  twenty  days  of  his 
arrest,  and  tried  by  jury  the  next  ses- 
sion. 

(o)  No  defendant  is  to  be  sent  to  prison 
beyond  the  seas,  either  within  or  without 
tlie  British  dominions. 

The  exact  meaning  of  the  words  Ifa- 
bcas  Corpus  is  this  :  "  You  are  to  pro- 
duce the  body."  That  is.  You,  the 
accuser,  are  to  bring  before  the  judge 
the  body  of  the  accused,  that  he  may  be 
tried  and  receive  the  award  of  the  court, 
and  you  (the  accused)  are  to  abide  by 
the  award  of  the  judge. 

SiispeusioH  of  llaheas  Corpus.  When 
the  Habeas  Corjius  Act  is  susi^ended,  the 
Crown  can  imprison  persons  on  suspieioii, 
without  giving  any  reason  for  so  doing  ; 
the  person  so  arrested  cannot  insist  on 
being  brought  before  a  judge  to  decide 
whether  or  not  he  can  be  admitted  to 
bail ;  it  is  not  needful  to  try  the  prisoner 


Haberdaslier 


567 


Hadj 


at  the  followiug  assize  ;  and  the  prisoner 
may  be  confined  in  any  prison  the  Crown 
chooses  to  select  for  the  purpose. 

Haberdasher,  from  liapcrtciK,  a  cloth 
the  width  of  which  was  settled  by  Maj^ua 
Charta.  A  "  hapertas-er  "  is  the  seller 
of  hapertas-erie. 

"  To  matcU  tbis  saint  tbcre  was  anotlior, 
As  busy  and  perverse  a  brolber, 
An  baborilaslior  nf  small  wares 
In  politics  and  state  affairs." 

Butler :  Jludibra.",  iii.  2. 

Habit  is  Second  Nature.  The  wise 
saw  of  Diogfines,  the  cynic,  (b.c.  412- 
323.) 

Shakespeare  :  "  Use  almost  can  change 
the  stamp  of  nature  "  {Hamlet,  iii.  4). 

French  :  "  L'habitude  est  uue  seconde 
nature." 

Latin  :  "  Usus  est  optimus  magister  " 
{(Jolainella). 

Italian  :  "  L'tibito  c  una  seconda 
natura." 

Habsburg  is  a  contraction  of 
f[abiclits- hani  (Hawk's  Tower);  so 
called  from  the  castle  on  the  right  bank 
of  the  Aar,  built  iu  the  eleventh  century 
b}^  Werner,  Bishojj  of  Strasburg,  whose 
nephew  (Werner  II.)  was  the  first  to 
assume  the  title  of  "Count  of  Habs- 
burg." His  great -gi'andsou,  Albrecht 
II.,  assumed  tlie  title  of  "  Landgraf  of 
Sundgau."  His  grandson,  Albrecht  IV. , 
in  the  thirteenth  century,  laid  the 
foundation  of  the  greatness  of  the  House 
of  Habsburg,  of  wliich  the  imperial 
family  of  Austria  are  the  representatives. 

Hackell's  Coit.  A  vast  stone  near 
Stantin  Drew,  in  Somersetshire ;  so 
called  from  a  tradition  that  it  was  a  coit 
thrown  b}^  Sir  John  Hautville.  In 
Wiltshire  three  huge  stones  near  Kennet 
are  called  the  Devil's  coifs. 

Hackney  Horses.  Not  thorough- 
bred, but  nearly  so.  They  make  the 
best  roadsters,  hunters,  and  carnage 
horses  ;  their  action  is  showj%  and  theu- 
pace  good.  A  first-class  roadster  will 
trot  a  mile  in  2i  minutes.  Some  Ameri- 
can trotters  will  even  exceed  this  record. 
The  best  hackneys  are  produced  from 
thorough-bred  sires  mated  with  half- 
bred  mares.  (French,  luKiuenec ;  the 
Eomance  word  ha(iue=^Q  Latin  er[uas  ; 
Spanish ,  h  acau  ea. ) 

.  *.*  In  ordinary  parlance,  a  hackney, 
hackney-horse,  or  hack,  means  a  horse 
"hacked  out"  for  hire.  These  horses 
are  sometimes  vicious  private  horses  sold 
for  "hacks,"  or  worn-out  coach-horses, 


and  cheap  animals  with  broken  wind, 
broken  knees,  or  some  other  defect. 

"Tbo  knigbts  are  well  liorsed,  anil  tbe  common 
people  and  otbers  on  litell  halccneys  and 
geldyuges."— Froissrtri. 

Hackum  (Captain).    A  thick-headed 

bull}'  of  Alsa'tia,  impudent  but  cowardly. 
He  was  once  a  sergeant  in  Flanders,  but 
ran  from  his  coloiu's,  and  took  refuge  in 
Alsa'tia,  where  he  was  dubbed  captain. 
{ShaiheeU  :  Squire  of  Ahutia.) 

Haco  I.  His  sword  was  called  Quern- 
Biter  [fuot-brcadih].     {See  Swoed.) 

Haddock.  According  to  tradition,  it 
was  a  haddock  in  whose  mouth  St.  Peter 
found  the  slater  (or  piece  of  money), 
and  the  two  marks  on  the  fish's  neck  are 
said  to  bo  the  impressions  of  the  apostle's 
finger  and  thumb.  It  is  a  pity  that  the 
person  who  invented  this  pretty  story 
forgot  that  salt-water  haddocks  cannot 
live  in  the  fresh  water  of  the  Lake  Gen- 
nesaret.  (See  John  Doey  and  Ciikistian 
Teaditioxs.) 

"O  superstitious  dainty,  Peter's  flsb. 
How  com"st  tbou  bere  to  make  so  goodly  dish  ? " 
McldUis :  Uialoyiics  (16U3). 

Hades  (2  sj-l.).  The  places  of  the 
departed  spirit  till  the  resiuTection.  It 
may  be  either  Paradise  or  "  Tartarus." 

V  It  is  a  great  jjity  that  it  has  been 
translated  "hell"  nine  or  ten  times  in 
the  common  version  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment, as  "hell"  in  theologj' means  the 
inferno.  The  Hebrew  sheol  is  about 
equal  to  the  Greek  haides,  that  is,  a, 
piivative,  and  idcin,  to  see. 

Ha'dith  [a  ler/end].  The  traditions 
abotit  the  prophet  Mahomet's  sayings 
and  doings.  This  compilation  forms  a 
supplement  to  the  Koran,  as  the  Talmud 
to  the  Jewish  Scriptures.  Like  the 
Jewish  Gema'ra,  the  Ha'dith  was  not 
allowed  originally  to  be  committed  to 
writing,  but  the  danger  of  the  traditions 
being  perverted  or  forgotten  led  to  their 
being  placed  on  record. 

Hadj.  The  jiilgrimage  to  Kaa'ba 
(temjile  of  Mecca),  which  every  Ma- 
hometan feels  bound  to  make  once  at 
least  before  death.  Those  who  neglect 
to  do  so  "  might  as  well  die  Jews  or 
Christians."  Those  pilgrimages  are  made 
by  caravans  well  supplied  with  water, 
and  escorted  by  1,400  armed  men  for 
defence  against  brigands.  (Hebrew,  hag, 
the  festival  of  Jewish  pUgrimages  to 
Jerusalem.) 

"Tbe  green  tiu'han  of  tbe  Mussulman  distin- 
guisbes  tbe  devout  badji  wbo  bas  been  to  Mecca." 
—Stephens :  Egypt,  vol.  i.  cbap.  xvii.  p.  2-10.        


Haciji 


568 


Hagring 


Hadji.  A  pilgrim,  a  Mahometan  who 
has  made  the  lixdj  or  pilgrimage  to  the 
Prophet's  tomb  at  Mecca.  Every  Hadji 
is  entitled  to  wear  a  green  turban. 

Hsemony.  Milton,  in  his  Comus,  says 
hsemony  is  of  "sovereign  nse  'gainst  all 
enchantments,  mildew,  blast,  or  damp." 
Coleridge  says  the  word  is  /urnin-oiiios 
(blood-wine),  and  refers  to  the  blood  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  destroys  all  evil. 
The  leaf,  says  Milton,  ' '  had  prickles  on 
it,"  but  "  it  bore  a  bright  golden 
flower."  The prickhs  are  the  crown  of 
thorns,  the  Jlotirr  the  fruits  of  salvation. 

This  interpretation  is  so  in  accordance 
with  the  spirit  of  Milton,  that  it  is  far 
preferable  to  the  suggestions  that  the 
plant  ag'rimony  or  alyssum  was  intended, 
for  why  should  Milton  have  changed  the 
name?  (Greek,  ha'una,  blood.)  (See 
Comiis,  648-668.) 

Dioscor'ides  ascribes  similar  powers  to 
the  herb  alyssum,  which,  as  he  says, 
"  keei^eth  man  and  beast  from  enchant- 
ments and  witching." 

Hsemos.  A  range  of  mountains 
separating  Thrace  and  Moe'sia,  called  by 
the  classic  writers  Cold  Hccinos.  (Greek, 
cheimon,  winter  ;  Latin,  hiciiis  ;  Sanskrit, 
hima.) 

"O'er  hii-'li  T'ior'i:!  Ihonre  her  course  she  bore, 
(J'l.T  fair  lOiuntli'ia's  ever-pleasing  shore  ; 
fl'er  H;einus'  liills  with  snows  eternal  crown'd, 
Nor    oiice    her    fl.viuL'     fmit    approached    the 
ground  "  Pope :  Homer's  Iliad,  xiv. 

Hafed.  A  Gheber  or  Fire-worshipper, 
in  love  with  Hinda,  the  Arabian  emir's 
daughter,  whom  he  first  saw  when  he 
entered  the  jjalace  under  the  hope  of 
being  able  to  slay  her  father,  the  tyrant 
usiu'fier  of  Persia.  He  was  the  leader  of 
a  baud  sworn  to  free  their  country  or  die, 
and  his  name  was  a  terror  to  the  Arab, 
who  looked  upon  him  as  superhuman. 
His  rendezvous  was  betrayed  by  a  traitor 
comrade,  but  when  the  Moslem  army 
came  to  take  him  he  threw  himself  into 
the  sacred  fire,  and  was  burnt  to  death. 
{2'Jwtnas  Moore,) 

Hafiz.  The  great  Persian  lyrist, 
called  the  ''Persian  Anacreon"  (four- 
teenth century).  His  odes  are  called 
(/hazels,  and  are  both  sweet  and  graceful. 
The  word  lutfiz  (retainer)  is  a  degree 
given  to  those  who  know  by  heart  the 
Koran  and  Hadith  (traditions) . 

Hag.  A  witch  or  sorceress.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  haejtcsse,  a  witch  or  hag.) 

"How  now,  you  secret,  Idack,  and  niidu'plit 
hags  ?  "  tSlialcesiicare ;  Macbeth,  iv.  1. 

Hagan  of  Trony  or  Haeo  of  Norieay, 
son  of  Aldrian,   liegeman  of  Giiuther, 


King  of  Burgundy.  Giinther  invited 
Siegfried  to  a  hunt  of  wild  beasts,  but 
while  the  king  of  Netherland  stooped 
to  drink  from  a  brook,  Hagan  stabbed 
him  between  the  shoulders,  the  only 
vulnerable  point  in  his  wliole  bodj'.  He 
then  deposited  the  dead  body  at  the 
door  of  Kriemhild's  chamber,  that  she 
might  stumble  on  it  when  she  went  to 
matins,  and  suppose  that  he  had  been 
murdered  by  assassins.  When  Kriem- 
hild  sent  to  Wonns  for  the  "Nibelung 
Hoard,"  Hagan  seized  it,  and  buried  it 
secretly  somewhere  beneath  the  lihiue, 
intending  himself  to  enjoy  it.  Kriem- 
hild,  with  a  view  of  vengeance,  married 
Etzel,  King  of  the  Huns,  and  after  the 
lapse  of  seven  years,  invited  the  king  of 
Burgimdy,  with  Hagan  and  many 
others,  to  the  court  of  her  husband,  but 
the  invitation  was  a  mere  snare.  A 
ten-ible  broil  was  stiired  up  in  the 
banquet  hall,  wliich  ended  in  the 
slaughter  of  all  the  Burgundians  but 
two  (Giinther  and  Hagan),  who  were 
taken  prisoners  and  given  to  Kriemhild, 
who  cut  off  both  their  heads.  Hagan 
lost  an  eye  when  he  fell  upon  Walter  of 
Spain.  He  was  dining  on  tlie  chine  of 
a  wild  boar  when  Walter  pelted  him  with 
the  bones,  one  of  which  struck  liini  in 
the  eye.  Hagan's  person  is  thus  described 
in  the  great  German  epic  : — 

"  AVell-grown  and  ■vvell-comiiacted  w.as  that  ro- 
douMed  guest  ; 
Long  were  his  h'gs  and  sinewy,  and  deep  and 

liroad  his  chest  ; 
His   hair,  that  once  was  salile,  with  grey  was 

daslied  of  late  ; 
Most  terrible  liis  vis.ige,  and  lordly  was  liis 
gait." 

Tlie  yibeliivgen-Lkd,  stanza  1789. 

Hagarenes  (3  syl.).  The  Moors  are 
so  called,  being  the  supposed  descend- 
ants of  Hagar,  Abraham's  bondwoman. 

"San  Diego  ....  bath  often  been  seen  con- 
quering ....  the  Hagarene  squadrons."— t'cr- 
vantcs  :  Don  Quixote,  part  ii.  book  iv.  G. 

Hagga'dah  (plur.  Juie/f/a'dolJi).  The 
free  rabbinical  interj^retatiou  of  Scrip- 
ture. (Hebrew,  /lar/f/ed,  to  relate.)  (See 
Far )■(()• :  Life  of  i'hrint,  vol.  ii.  chap. 
Iviii.  p.  333.) 

Hagi.     {See  Hadj.) 

Hag-knots.  Tangles  in  the  manes 
of  wild  ponies,  supposed  to  be  used  by 
witches  for  stiiTups.  The  term  is  com- 
mon in  the  New  Forest.  Seamen  use  the 
word  hacj  a-teeth  to  express  those  parts  of 
a  matting,  etc.,  which  spoil  its  general 
uniformity. 

Hagring.  The  Fata  Morgana, 
{Scandinavian.) 


Ha-ha 


569 


Hair 


Ha-ha  (A).  A  ditch  serving  the 
purpose  of  a  hedge  ■without  breaking 
the  prospect.  (Auglo-Saxou,  hw/i,  a 
hole.) 

Hahnemann  (Sainin'I).  A  German 
physician,  who  set  forth  in  liis  Oir/ai/on 
of  2Icdlcinc  the  system  which  he  called 
"  lioracpopathy  "  the  i^rinciples  of  which 
are  these  :  (1)  that  diseases  are  cured  by 
those  medicines  which  would  produce 
the  disease  in  healthy  bodies ;  (2)  that 
medicines  are  to  be  simple  and  not  com- 
pounded ;  (;3)  that  doses  arc  to  be  ex- 
ceedingly minute.     (17o5- 18-13.) 

Haidce  (2  syl.).  A  beautiful  Greek 
girl,  who  found  Don  Juan  when  he  was 
cast  ashore,  and  restored  him  to  anima- 
tion. "  Her  hair  was  auburn,  and  lier 
eyes  were  black  as  death. "  Her  mother, 
a  Moorish  woman  from  Fez,  was  dead, 
and  her  father,  Lambro,  a  rich  Greek 
pii-ate,  was  living  on  one  of  the  CyC- 
lades.  She  and  Juan  fell  in  love  with 
each  other  during  the  absence  of  Lam- 
bro from  the  island.  On  his  return  Juan 
was  arrested,  placed  in  a  galliot,  and 
sent  from  the  island.  Haidee  went 
mad  and,  after  a  lingering  illness,  died. 
{Byron  :  Don  Jiian,  cantos  ii.  iii.  iv.) 

Hail.  Health,  an  exclamation  of 
welcome,  like  the  Latin  iSalrc  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  hi'l,  health  ;  but  hail  =  frozen 
rain  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  hcegl.) 

"All   liail,  JIaclietb  !     Hail   to  tliee,  tbanc  of 
Gla'iius."  t<hakefjieare :  Macbcil(,\.3. 

Hail.    To  call  to. 

To  /lail  a  ship  OT  an  oiiiniliHS.  To  call 
to  those  on  board. 

Hail-fellow-well-met  (A).  One  on 
easy,  familiar  terms.     (6<'e  Jockey.) 

"  Hail  fellow  well  met,  all  dirty  and  wet; 
Fiud  out,  if  you  can,  wbo's  master,  who's  man." 
ISa'ift:  Ml/  Lddy's  Lamentation. 

Hair.  One  single  tuft  is  left  on  the 
shaven  crown  of  a  Mussulman,  for  Ma- 
homet to  grasp  hold  of  when  drawing 
the  deceased  to  Paradise. 

"And  each  scalp  had  a  single  long  tuft  of  hair." 
Byron :  Sieye  of  Corbith. 

The  scalp -lock  of  the  North  American 
Indians,  left  on  the  otherwise  bald  head, 
is  for  a  conquering  enemy  to  seize  when 
he  tears  olf  the  scalp. 

Hair  (AbsaIoin\s)  (2  Sam.  xiv.  25), 
Absalom  used  to  cut  his  hair  once  a  year, 
and  the  clippings  "weighed  200  shekels 
after  the  king's  weight,"  i.e.  100  oz. 
avoirdupois.  It  would  be  a  fine  head 
of  hair  which  weighed  five  ounces,  but 
the  mere  clippings  of  Absalom's  hair 
■weighed  43,800  grains  (more  than   100 


oz.).  Paul  says  (1  Cor.  xi.  14),  "Doth 
not  even  nature  itself  teach  you,  that  if 
a  man  have  long  hair,  it  is  a  shame  unto 
him ': ' ' 

Mrs.  Astley,  the  actress,  could  stand 
upright  and  cover  her  feet  with  her 
flaxen  hair. 

Hair,  Hairs.     (Anglo-Saxon,  hccr.) 

'The  i/rcatrst  ccrnts  arc  often  drawn  hij 
hairs.  Events  of  great  pith  and  moment 
are  often  brought  about  by  causes  of 
apparently  no  importance. 

Sir  John  Hawkins's  History  of  Music,  a  work  of 
sixteen  years'  labour,  'was  plunged  into  long  ohli- 
vion  by  a  pun. 

Till'  iiiii'-'iiillrent  discovery  of  gravitation  by 
NewiMii  I,,  :i>.  riiii'd  to  the  fall  of  an  apple  from 
a  lice  iindri-  wliirh  he  was  musing. 

The  di.u'  Diamond,  II) -:cttin^'  a  lamp,  destroyed 
the  papers  of  Sir  l,-.i ,ir  Ni",\  tun,  whicli  had  been 
the  toil  of  liis  life,     o , ,   \Ki--ir  ■.•,M.) 

A  spark  from  a  ivindli'  iiilliii'-;  on  a  cnttage  floor 
was  the  cause  uf  tin'  (ireat  I'ue  of  Londun. 

A  ballad  chanted  by  a  fillr-ilr-iii,nnbrc  under- 
mined the  cnl.issal  jMnvcr  of  Alhcroiii. 

A  jest  of  the  French  kin^'  was  the  death  of 
"William  the  (.'onqueror. 

The  destruction  of  Athens  was  brought  about 
by  a  jest  on  Sulla.  Some  witty  Athenian,  struck 
with  bis  iJimply  face,  called  him  a  "mulberry 
puddins." 

Kome"  was  saved  from  capture  by  the  Gauls 
by  the  cackling  of  some  sacred  geese. 

Benson,  in  his  Skcrclies  of  Coificn,  says  that 
Xapolcon's  love  for  war  was  jilaiited  in  bis  boy- 
hood by  the  present  of  a  small  lirass  cannon. 

The  life  of  Nai>oleon  was  saved  from  tlie"  In- 
fernal Macliine"  liec.ause  <;encnil  Kapji  detained 
Joseplune  a  niinnir  ortwo  I  o  arr.'inge  her  shawl 
after  tlie  manner  of  K-rypti.-in  w  onion. 

The  famous  "llye-house  riot"  miscarried  from 
the  merest  accident.  The  house  in  which 
Charles  II.  was  staying  happened  to  catch  fire, 
and  the  king  was  oldiged  to  leave  for  New- 
market a  little  sooner  than  he  had  intended. 

Lafltte,  the  great  banker,  was  a  pauper,  nml  he 
always  ascribed  his  rise  in  life  to  his  picking  up 
a  piu  in  the  streets  of  Paris. 

A  single  line  of  Frederick  II.,  reflecting,  not  on 
piditics  but  on  the  poetry  of  a  French  minister, 
plunged  France  into  the  Seven  ■years'  War. 

The  invention  of  glass  is  ascribed  to  some 
Phoenician  merchants  lighting  a  lire  on  the  .sands 
of  the  seashore. 

The  three  hairs.  When  Eeynard 
wanted  to  get  talked  about,  he  told  Miss 
Magpie,  under  the  promise  of  secrecy, 
that  "  the  lion  king  had  given  him  three 
hairs  from  the  fifth  leg  of  the  a'moron- 
thol'ogos'phorus,  ...  a  beast  that  lives 
on  the  other  side  of  the  river  Cylinx  ;  it 
has  five  legs,  and  on  the  fifth  leg  there 
are  three  hairs,  and  whoever  has  these 
three  hairs  will  be  young  and  beautiful 
for  ever."  They  had  effect  only  on  the 
fan-  sex,  and  could  be  given  only  to  the 
lady  whom  the  donor  married.  {Sir  E. 
B.  Lytton  :  Tihjrims  of  the  Rhine,  xii.) 

To  a  hair  or  To  the  turn  of  a  hair. 
To  a  nicety.  A  hairbreadth  is  the  forty - 
eighth  part  of  an  inch. 

To  comb  one''s  hair  the  wrong  way.  To 
cross  or  vex  one  by  running  counter  to 
one's  prejudices,  opinions,  or  habits. 


Hair-brained 


570 


Halberjects 


WithoHt  iurmng  a  hair.  Without  in- 
dicating any  sign  of  fatigue  or  distress. 
A  horse  will  run  a  certain  distance  at  a 
given  rate  without  turning  a  hair. 

Agoi)ist  the  liair.  Against  the  grain, 
contraiy  to  its  nature. 

"  If  you  sliDuliJ  flglit,  you  go  against  the  hair  of 
your  profossions.'"— ,S/«t/ies;)(;orc;  Merry  ICii'es  of 
Windsor,  ii.  3. 

Hair-brained.     (Sec  Aie-beained.) 

Hair-breadth  'Scape.  A  very  nar- 
row escape  from  some  evil.  In  measure- 
ment the  forty-eighth  j^art  of  au  inch  is 
called  a  "  hair-breadth." 

"  Wlicreiii  1  S]iaki>  of  mosr  cUsMStroiis  rlianccs, 
Of  iiio\  iiiK  arcidciits  by  flood  and  Hold, 
Of  l]:iir-lire;idtU  'scaj'cs  i'  th"  iimiiincnt  deadly 
I ircacli."  Shiikcspcare :  Otiiellu,  i.  3. ' 

Hair  Eels.  These  filifoi-m  worms 
belong  to  the  species  Gordius  aquaticKs, 
found  in  stagnant  jjools.  Their  resem- 
blance to  wriggling  hairs  has  given  rise 
to  the  not  uncommon  belief  that  a  hair, 
if  left  in  water  for  nine  days,  will  turn 
into  an  eel. 

Hair  -  Splitting.  Cavilling  about 
very  minute  differences.  {>Sce  Hair- 
bee  adtii.) 

"N(dbinK  is  iiioro  fatal  to  ehKiuence  tlinii 
atleiUioii  lo  Hue  hair-siilitling  distincticjiis."— 
Muthcn-i; :  Uratury  and  Orators,  chap,  ii ,  i).  Sd. 

Hair  Stanc  {Celtic)  means  boun- 
dary stone ;  a  monolith  sometimes,  but 
erroneously,  termed  a  Druidical  stone. 
{Scotland.) 

Hair  by  Hair,  irair  hij  hair  you 
u-ill  pidl  out  the  hortic's  tail.  Plutarch 
says  that  Serto'rius,  in  order  to  teach 
his  soldiers  that  perseverance  and  wit 
are  better  than  brute  force,  had  two 
horses  brought  before  them,  and  set  two 
men  to  pull  out  their  tails.  One  of  the 
men  was  a  burly  Hercules,  who  tugged 
and  tugged,  but  all  to  no  purpose ;  the 
other  was  a  sharp,  weasen-faced  tailor, 
who  plucked  one  hair  at  a  time,  amidst 
roars  of  laughter,  and  soon  left  the  tail 
(juite  bare. 

Hair  devoted  to  Proserpine.  Till 
a  lock  of  hair  is  devoted  to  Proserpine, 
she  refuses  to  release  the  soul  from  the 
dying  body.  When  Dido  mounted  the 
funeral  pile,  she  lingered  in  suifering  till 
Juno  sent  Iris  to  cut  off  a  lock  of  her 
hair.  Thanatos  did  the  same  for  Alcestis, 
when  she  gave  her  life  for  her  husband. 
And  in  all  sacrifices  a  forelock  was  first 
cut  off  from  the  head  of  the  victim  as  an 
offering  to  the  black  queen. 

"'Hunc  ego  Diti 
Sacrum  jussa  foro,  teciue  isto  corpore  solvo.' 
bic  ait,  et  dextra  crinem  secat  .  .  . 
...  at(j.ue  in  voutos  vitarecessit." 

Virgil:  .dineid,  iy.  702-5. 


Hair   of  a  Dissembling   Colour. 

Red  hair  is  so-called,  from  the  notion 
that  Judas  had  red  hair. 

"  ItiK^iilliid.  His  very  hair  is  of  the  dissembling 
colour  [rrd]. 

I'fliii.  Some\vhat  browner  than  Judas's."  — 
Shalu'spcare :  As  You  Like  It,  iii.  4. 

Hair  of   the  Dog  that  Bit  You 

{^L).  Siiiiitla  tii/jtilll)ns  eiiranfiir.  In 
Scotland  it  is  a  popular  belief  that  a  few 
hairs  of  the  dog  that  bit  you  applied  to 
the  Avound  will  prevent  evil  conse- 
quences. Applied  to  drinks,  it  means, 
if  overnight  you  have  indvdged  too  freely, 
take  a  glass  of  the  same  wine  next 
moniing  to  soothe  the  nerves.  "  If  this 
dog  do  you  bite,  soon  as  out  of  your  bed, 
take  a  hair  of  the  tail  in  the  morning." 

"Take  the  hair,  it's  well  written. 
Of  the  do,^'  hy  whicli  you're  binen; 
Work  tilf  one  wine  by  his  brother. 
And  one  labour  with  aiidlher.  ,  .  . 
Cook  Mitli  (  ook.  and  strife  witli  strife; 
Business  with  lin>lni'ss,  wifi^  with  wifc\" 

Athi,nrii:<{,isnih,il  I'l  A rislopluincs). 
"There  w.-iSM  nmn.and  he  was  wise, 
Wh.ifell  into  a  branible-bnsh 
And  seratehed  out  bolli  bis  eyes; 
And  wlieu  his  eyes  were  out,  he  then 
.lumped  inio  llie  lir;iiiible-bnsli| 
Aud>er:ilelied  I  beni  in  ;i,L.';iin."' 

Hair  stand  on  End.  Indicative 
of  intense  mental  distress  a'ld  astonish- 
ment. Dr.  Andrews,  of  Berrsford 
chapel,  Walworth,  who  attended  Pro- 
bert  under  sentence  of  death,  says : 
"  When  the  executioner  put  the  cords 
on  his  wrists,  his  hair,  though  long  and 
lanky,  of  a  weak  iron-grey,  rose  gradu- 
ally and  stood  perfectly  ujiright,  and  so 
remained  for  some  time,  and  then  fell 
gradually  down  again." 

"  Kear  eaiiic  upon  me  and  trembling,.  .  .  [and] 
the  b;iir  of  my  llesh  stood  up."— Job  iv.  11,  15. 

Hake.  Tf'e  lose  in  hake,  but  cjain  in, 
herring.  Lose  one  way,  but  gain  in 
another.  Herrings  are  persecuted  by  the 
hakes,  whicli  are  therefore  driven  away 
from  a  herring  fishery. 

Hal.  A  familiar  contraction  of  Harry 
(for  Henry).  Similarly,  iJol  is  a  con- 
traction of  Dorothy  ;  Mol,  of  Mary,  etc. 

V  The  substitution  of  F  for  M  as  the 
initial  letter  of  jsroiJer  names  is  seen  in 
such  examples  as  ]'(dl)/  for  Mollj^,  Tatty 
for  I\Iartha,  Tcggy  for  Margy  {i.e.  Mar- 
garet), etc.     (<S<Y' Elizabeth.) 

Halacha  [r«^'].  The  Jewish  oral 
law.     {Sec  Gema'ea,  Mishna.) 

"Thehalacbab  ,  .  .  bad  even  greater  auth<n'ity 
than  the  Scriptures  of  the  Old  Testament,  since 
it  explained  and  applied  \\w\\\."  ~  Edmihrim: 
Lifii  .1/ Jesus  the  Messiah,  vol.  i.  iiocjk  i.  chap.  i. 

Halberjects    or    Haubergets.      A 

coarse  thick  cloth  used  for  the  habits  of 
monks.     Thomson  says  it  is  the  German 


Halcyon  Days 


571 


Halifax 


al-bergen  (cover-all)  ov  IIals-ber(/cn{neck- 
cover).     {Essay  on  Mayna  Charta.) 

Halcyon  Days.  A  time  of  hai^pi- 
ness  and  prosj^erity.  Halcj-on  is  the 
Greek  for  a  kiugfisher,  comijouucled  of 
h(ds  (the  sea)  aud  kuo  (to  brood  on). 
The  ancient  Sicilians  believed  that  the 
kiugfislier  laid  its  eggs  and  incubated 
for  fourteen  days,  before  the  winter 
solstice,  on  the  surface  of  the  sea,  diu'ing 
which  time  the  waves  of  the  sea  Avere 
always  unruffled. 

"  Amidst  our  arms  as  rmiet  you  shall  be 
As  halcyon  brooding  on  a  winter's  sea." 

Vrtiden. 
"  The  peaceful  kingfishers  are  met  together 
About  the  deck,  aud  iirophesie  calm  weather." 
^Yild :  Iter  Borcale. 

Half.  Half  is  more  than  the  whole. 
(riAeoi/  TJiuiffu  7rai'T05).  This  is  what  Hesiod 
said  to  his  brother  Perseus,  when  he 
wished  him  to  settle  a  dispute  without 
going  to  law.  He  meant  "half  of  the 
estate  without  the  expense  of  law  will 
be  better  than  the  whole  after  the 
lawyers  have  had  their  jjickings."  The 
remark,  however,  has  a  very  wide  signi- 
fication. Thus  an  cinharras  de  richcsse  is 
far  less  profitable  than  a  sufficiency.  A 
large  estate  to  one  who  cannot  manage 
it  is  impoverishing.  A  man  of  small 
income  will  be  poorer  with  a  large  house 
aud  garden  to  keep  up  than  if  he  lived 
in  a  smaller  tenement.  Increase  of 
wealth,  if  expeuditiiro  is  more  in  pro- 
portion, tendeth  to  poverty. 

'■  Uuhappy  they  to  whom  God  has  not  revealed, 
By  a  strong  light  which  must  their  sense  control. 
That  half  a  great  estate's  more  than  the  Avhole.'" 
Cowley :  Essays  iti  Verse  and  Prose,  No.  iv. 

Half.    Jfi/  better  half.    (Sec  Bettee.) 

Half-baked.  ITe  is  only  half-baked. 
He  is  a  soft,  a  noodle.  The  allusion  is  to 
bread,  piecrust,  etc.,  only  half-cooked. 

Half-deck.  The  sanctum  of  the  second 
mate,  carpenters,  coopers,  boatswain, 
and  all  secondary  officers.  Quarter-deck, 
the  sanctum  of  the  captain  and  superior 
officers.  In  a  guu- decked  ship,  it  is  the 
deck  below  the  spar-deck,  extending 
from  the  mainmast  to  the  cabin  bulk- 
heads. 

Half-done.  Half-done,  as  Elgin  was 
bar/if.  In  the  wars  between  James  II. 
of  Scotland  aud  the  Douglases  in  1452, 
the  Earl  of  Huntly  burnt  one-half  of  the 
toAvn  of  Elgin,  being  the  side  which 
belonged  to  the  Douglases,  but  left  the 
other  side  standing  because  it  belonged 
to  his  own  family.  {Sir  Walter  Scott  : 
Tales  of  a  Grandfather,  xxi.) 

Half-faced  Groat  ( Yon) .  You  worth- 
less fellow.    The  debased  groats  issued 


in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  had  the 
king's  head  in  profile,  but  those  iu  the 
reign  of  Henry  VII.  had  the  king's  head 
with  the  fidl  face.  (See  King  John,  i. 
1  ;  and  2  Henry  I]'.,  ui.  1.) 

"  Thou    half-faced    groat  !     You    thick-checked 
chitty-face ! " 
Mimday:     The    Doiniful   of  Robert,  Earle  of 
Uimtinndun  (liiOl). 

Half-seas  Over.  Almost  up  with 
one.  Xow  applied  to  a  pei-sou  almost 
dead,  drunk.  The  jshrase  seems  to  be  a 
coiTuption  of  the  Dutch  op-zee  zobcr, 
"  over- sea  beer,"  a  strong,  heady  bever- 
age introduced  into  Holland  from  Eng- 
land {Gifford).  "Up-zee  Freese  "  is 
Friezeland  beer.  The  Dutch,  half 
seeansVs  over,  more  than  half-sick.  (C. 
K.  Steer  man.) 

"  I  am  half-seas  o'er  to  death." 

Bryden. 
"  I  do  not  like  the  dulness  of  your  eye, 
It  hath  a  heavy  cast, 'tis  upsee  Dutch." 

Ben  Jonson :  Alchemist,  iv.  2. 

Halfpenny.  I  am  come  back  again, 
like  a  bad  ha'penny.  A  facetious  way  of 
sa\ing  "More  free  than  welcome. "  As  a 
bad  ha'i^euny  is  returned  to  its  owner, 
so  liave  I  returned  to  you,  and  you 
cannot  get  rid  of  me. 

Halgaver.  Sammoned  before  the 
■mayor  of  llalgarer.  The  mayor  of  Hal- 
gaver is  an  imaginary  person,  and  the 
threat  is  given  to  those  who  have  com- 
mitted no  offence  against  the  laws,  but 
are  siiuply  rmtidy  and  slovenly.  Hal- 
gaver is  a  moor  in  Cornwall,  near  Bod- 
min, famous  for  an  annual  carnival  held 
there  iu  the  middle  of  July.  Charles  II. 
was  so  pleased  with  the  diversions  when 
he  passed  through  the  pilace  on  Ids  way 
to  SciUy  that  he  became  a  member  of 
the  "self -constituted"  corporation.  The 
mayor  of  Garratt  {q.v.)  is  a  similar 
"magnate." 

Halifax.  That  is,  hallg  fax  or  holy 
hair.  Its  jire^dous  name  was  Horton. 
The  story  is  that  a  certain  clerk  of 
Horton,  being  jilted,  murdered  his  quon- 
dam sweetheart  by  cutting  off  her  head, 
which  he  hung  in  a  yew-tree.  The  head 
was  looked  on  with  reverence,  and  came 
to  be  regarded  as  a  holy  relic.  In  time 
it  rotted  away,  leaving  little  filaments  or 
veins  si}readiug  otit  between  the  bark 
and  body  of  tlie  tree  like  fine  threads. 
These  filaments  were  regarded  as  the 
fax  or  hair  of  the  murdered  maiden. 
{See  Hull,  Three  H's.) 

Halifax  (in  Nova  Scotia).  So  called 
by  the  Hon.  Edward  Cornwallis,  the 
governor,  in  compliment  to  his  patron, 
the  Earl  of  Halifax  (1749). 


Halifax  Law 


572 


Hallel 


Halifax  Law.  By  this  law,  whoever 
commits  theft  iu  the  liberty  of  Halifax 
is  to  be  executed  on  the  Halifax  gibbet, 
a  kind  of  guillotine. 

"  At  Hallifax  tLe  law  so  shar])e  doth  deale. 
Tbat   whoso   more   thau    thineeu   iiL-nce  doth 

stcale, 
Thoy  have  a  jyn  that  wondrous  quick  and  well 
Sends  thieves  all  headless  into  heaven  or  hell." 
Taylur  (the  M'aUr  Poet)  :  H'oc/.-p,  ii.  (l«3o;. 

Hall  Mark.  The  mark  on  gold  or 
silver  articles  after  they  have  been  as- 
sayed. Every  article  iu  gold  is  compared 
with  a  given  standard  of  pure  gold.  This 
standard  is  supposed  to  be  divided  into 
twentj'-four  jjarts  called  carats ;  gold 
equal  to  the  standard  is  said  to  be 
twenty-four  carats  fine.  Manufactured 
articles  are  never  made  of  pure  gold, 
but  the  quantity  of  alloy  used  is  re- 
stricted. Thus  sovereigns  and  weddiug- 
riugs  contain  two  parts  of  alloy  to  every 
twenty-two  of  gold,  and  are  said  to  be 
twenty-two  carats  fine.  The  best  gold 
watch-cases  coutaiu  six  parts  of  silver  or 
copper  to  eighteen  of  gold,  and  are 
therefore  eighteen  carats  line.  Other 
gold  watch  cases  and  gold  articles  niaj' 
contain  nine,  twelve,  or  fifteen  parts  of 
alloy,  and  only  fifteen,  twelve,  or  nine 
of  gold.  The  Mint  price  of  standard 
gold  is  £3  17s.  lO^d.  per  ounce,  or 
£46  14s.  Gd.  perpounci. 

Standard  silver  consists  of  thirty-seven 
parts  of  pure  silver  and  three  of  copper. 
The  Mint  price  is  5s.  Cd.  an  ounce,  but 
silver  to  be  melted  or  manufactured  into 
"plate"  varies  in  value  according  to 
the  silver  market.  To-day  (Oct.  2'Jth, 
1894)  it  is  29id.  per  ounce. 

Suppose  the  article  to  be  marked  is 
taken  to  the  assay  office  for  the  hall 
mark.  It  will  receive  a  koparcVs  head 
for  London  ;  an  anchor  for  Birmingham ; 
three  wheat  sheaves  or  a  dafjger  for  Ches- 
ter;  a  castle  with  tiro  u-inr/s  for  Exeter; 
five  lions  and  a  cross  for  York  ;  a  croirn 
for  Sheffield  ;  three  castles  for  Newcastle- 
on-Tj'ne  ;  a  thistle  or  castle  and  lion  for 
Edinburgh ;  a  tree  and  a  salmon  with  a 
rinr/  in  its  month  for  Glasgow;  a  harp 
or  Hthernia  for  Dublin,  etc.  The  sjiecific 
mark  shows  at  once  where  the  article 
was  assayed. 

Besides  the  hall  mark,  there  is  also 
the  standard  mark,  which  for  England 
is  a  lion ])assant ;  for  Edinburgh  a  thistle; 
for  Glasgow  a  lion,  rampant ;  and  for 
Ireland  a  crowned  harji.  If  the  article 
.stamped  contains  less  pure  metal  than 
the  standard  coin  of  the  realm,  the 
number  of  carats  is  marked  on  it,  as 
eighteen,fifteen,twelve,or  nine  carats  tine. 

Besides  the  hall  mark,  the  standard 


mark,  and  the  figure,  there  is  a  letter 
called  the  date  mark.  Only  twenty 
letters  are  used,  beginning  with  A,  omit- 
ting J,  and  ending  with  V;  one  year 
they  are  in  Roman  characters,  another 
year  in  Italian,  another  in  Gothic,  an- 
other in  Old  English ;  sometimes  they 
are  all  capitals,  sometimes  all  small 
letters ;  so,  by  seeing  the  letter  and 
referring  to  a  table,  the  exact  year  of 
the  mark  can  be  discovered. 

Lastly,  the  head  of  the  reigning 
sovereign  comj^letes  the  marks. 

Hair  Sunday.  The  Sunda}'  i)re- 
cediug  Shrove  Tuesday  ;  the  next  day 
is  called  Hall'  Monday,  and  Shrove 
Tuesday  eve  is  called  Hall'  Xight.  The 
Tuesday  is  also  called  Pancake  Day,  and 
the  day  ijreceding  Calloi>  Monday,  from 
the  sjjecial  foods  popularly  prej^ared  for 
those  days.  All  three  were  days  of 
merrymaking.  Hall'  or  Halle  is  a  con- 
traction of  Hallow  or  llaloglie,  meaning 
holy  or  festival. 

Hall  of  Odin.  The  rocks,  such  as 
Halleberg  and  Hunneberg,  from  which 
the  Hyperboreans,  when  tired  of  life, 
used  to  cast  themselves  into  the  sea  ;  so 
called  because  they  were  the  vestibule 
of  the  Scandinavian  Elysium. 

Hallam's    Greek.      Byron,    iu    his 

Enf/lish  JS<(rds,  etc.,  speaks  of  "  classic 
Hallam,  much  renowned  for  Greek," 
referring  to  ' '  Hallam's  severe  critique 
on  Payne  Knight's  Taste^  in  which  were 
some  Greek  verses  most  mercilessly 
lashed.  The  verses,  however,  turned 
out  to  be  a  quotation  from  Pindar." 

It  appears  that  Dr.  Allen,  not  Hallam, 
was  the  luckless  critic.  (See  Crabb 
Robinson  :  JJiari/,  i.  277.) 

Hallel.  There  were  two  series  of 
psalms  so  called.  Jahn  tells  us  iu  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles  the  series  consisted 
of  Psalms  cxiii.  to  cxviii.  both  included 
{Archccolugica  Biblica,  p.  416).  Psalm 
cxxxvi.  was  called  the  Great  Hallel. 
And  sometimes  the  songs  of  degrees 
sung  standing  on  the  fifteen  steps  of  the  ' 
inner  court  seem  to  be  so  called  (?'.<?. 
cxx.  to  cxxxvii.  both  included). 

"Alon,!,'  this  [path]  Jesus  advanced,  preceded 
and  followed  by  multitudes  with  loud  cries  of 
rejoicing,  as  at  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  when 
the  Great  Hallel  was  daily  sung  in  their  jiro- 
cessions."'— (/'eiA'/e;  Lifeof  CUrist,\o\.  ii.  chap.  55, 
p.  3U7. 

In  the  following  quotation  the  Songs 
of  Degrees  are  called  the  Great  Hallel. 

"  Eldad  w(mld  gladly  have  joined  in  praying  the 
Great  Hallel,  as  they  call  the  series  of  Psalms 
from  the  c.xx.  to  the  cxxxvii.,  after  which  it  was 
customary  to  send  round  the  [paschal]  cnpa  fifth 
time,  but  midnight  was  already  too  near."— £((to(J 
the  rUrjrim^  chap.  i.\, 


Hallelujah 


573 


Hammer 


Hallelujah  is  the  Hebrew ItuhUt-Juli, 
"Praise  ye  Jehovah." 

Hallelujah  Lass  {A).  A  young 
■woman  wlio  wanders  about  with  what  is 
called  "  The  Salvation  Army." 

Hallelujah  Victory.  A  victory 
gained  by  some  newly-baptised  Bretons, 
led  by  (jemia'nus,  JBishop  of  Auxerre 
(a.d.  429).  The  conquerors  commenced 
the  battle  with  loud  shouts  of  "Halle- 
lujah !  " 

Halloo  when  out    of  the   Wood, 

or  Xci'cr  haUuo  till  [ion  are  out  of  the 
u-ood.  Never  think  you  are  safe  from 
the  attacks  of  robbers  till  you  are  out  of 
the  forest.  "  Call  no  man  happy  till  he 
is  dead."  "Many  a  slip  'twixt  the  cup 
and  the  lip." 

Hallowe'en  (October  31st),  according 
to  Scotch  superstition,  is  the  time  when 
witches, ,  devils,  fairies,  and  other  imps 
of  earth  and  air  hold  annual  holiday. 
(See  HaUoice'cn,  a  poem  by  Robert 
Burns.) 

Halter.  A  Bridport  dagger  {q.r.). 
St.  Johnstone's  tippet. 

Halter,  or  rather  Halster.    A  rope 
for  the  neck  or  halse,  as  a  horse's  halter. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  hah,  the  neck  ;  but  there 
is  also  the  word  half  ley,  a  halter.) 
"A  tliievislier  knave  is  not  on  live,  more  flicliiug, 
no  more  false; 
Many  a  trner  man  tban  be  lias  liangediiii  b.v  tbe 
liaise  [neck]."  Gammer  Gurton. 

Haltios.  In  Laplnndic  mythology, 
the  guardian  spirits  of  Mount  Nie'mi. 

"  From  tliis  lieiirlit  [Nie'nil,  in  Laiiland]  we  had 
(ipiMirtnnitv  several  times  to  see  tliose  vaiiours 
rise  from  the  lake,  which  the  people  of  the  c(nin- 
trycall  Haltins,  and  which  they  deem  to  lie  tbe 
sruardian  spirits  of  the  mountain."— Jsf.  cle  iluii- 
i'crtitis. 

Ham  and  Heyd.  Storm  demons  or 
weather-sprites.     {Scandinavian  mijiho- 

"  Tlioncrb  valour  never  should  he  scorned, 
Yet'now  tbe  storm  rules  wide  ; 
Bv  now  again  to  live  returned 
I'll  wager  Ham  and  Heyd." 
:•  Frith'wf  }iai)a,\A's  xi. 

Ham'adryads.  Nymphs  of  trees 
supposed  to  live  in  forest-trees,  and  die 
when  the  tree  dies.  (Greek,  hania, 
together  with  (l)iif!,  a  forest-tree.) 

V  The  nymphs  of  frvit-trees  were 
called  "Mciides"  or  "  Hamamelids." 

Hameh.  In  Arabian  mythologj',  a 
bird  formed  from  the  blood  near  the 
brains  of  a  murdered  man.  This  bird 
cries  " /A7,'oo'«rf  .' "  (Give  me  drink!), 
meaning  drink  of  the  murderer's  blood  ; 


and  this  it  cries  incessantly  till  the  death 
is  avenged,  when  it  flies  away. 

Hamet.  The  Cid  Ilamct  Bcnenge'li. 
The  hypothetical  Moorish  chronicler 
from  whom  Cervantes  professes  to  derive 
his  adventures  of  Don  Quixote. 

"Of  the  two  had  cassocks  I  am  worth  ...  1 
would  have  given  tbe  latter  of  tbem  as  freely  as 
even  Cid  Hamet  offered  bis  ...  to  have  stood 
by."— jStcr«e. 

Hamilton.  The  reck  of  Mr.  Fafrick 
Hamilton  has  infected  as  nianij  as  it  did 
blow  upon,  I.e.  Patrick  Hamilton  was 
burnt  to  death  by  Cardinal  Beaton,  and 
the  horror  of  the  deed  contributed  not  a 
little  to  the  Reformation.  As  the  blood 
of  the  martj'rs  is  the  seed  of  the  Church, 
so  the  smoke  or  reek  of  Hamilton's  fire 
diffused  the  principles  for  which  he 
suffered  (1504-1528). 

•.■  Latimer,  at  tbe  stake,  said:  "We  sball  this 
day  light  up  siicb  a  candle  in  England  as  sball 
never  be  put  out." 

Hamilto'nian  System.  A  method 
of  teaching  foreign  languages  by  inter- 
linear translations,  suggested  by  James 
Hamilton,  a  merchant  (1769-1831). 

Hamlet.  A  daft  person  (Icelandic, 
aiiilod'),  one  who  is  irresolute,  and  can 
do  nothing  fully.  Shakespeare's  play  is 
based  on  the  Danish  story  of  Amleth' 
recorded  in  Saxo-Grammat'icus. 

Hammel  (Scotch).  A  cattle-shed,  a 
liovel.  (Hame  =  home,  with  a  diminu- 
tive affix.  Anglo-Saxon,  Itdni,  home. 
Compare  hamlet.) 

Hammer.     (Anglo-Saxon,  hainer.) 

(1)  Pierre  d'Ailly,  Ze  Marteau  des 
llcrciiques,  president  of  the  council  that 
condemnetl  John  Huss.     (1350-1425.) 

(2)  Judas  Asmonneus,  surnamed  3fac- 
cahecns,  "the  hammer."     (b.c.  166-136.) 

(3)  St.  Augustine  is  called  by  Hake- 
well  "That  renowned  pillar  of  truth 
and  hammer  of  heresies."  (b.c.  395-430.) 

(4)  John  Faber,  surnamed  Malleas 
Ileretico'ridn,  from  the  title  of  one  of  his 
works.     (1470-1541.) 

(5)  St.  Hilary,  Bishop  of  Poitiers, 
Malleus  Ariano'vani.     (350-307.) 

(6)  Charles  Martel.     (689-741.) 

"On  pretend  qu'on  lui  donna  le 'surnom  de 
Martel.  parceiiu'il  avait  ecrase  comme  a\ec  tin 
n  arteau  les  Sarrasins,  qui,  sous  la  conduite  d'Ali- 
(hranie,  a\aieiit  envahi  la  Vva.iici.'."—JivitiHet : 
VktUnnuun  Viiiversel,tjtc. 

Hammer. 

Phrases  and  Proverbs. 

Gone  to  the  hammer.  Applied  to  goods 
sent  to  a  sale  by  auction  ;  the  auctioneer 
giving  a  rap  with  a  small  hammer  wheu 


Hammer  1 


574 


Hand 


a  lot  is  sold,  to  intimate  that  there  is  an 
end  to  the  bidding. 

They  live  hammer  (uid  iimejs.  Are 
always  quarrelling.  They  beat  each 
otlier  like  hammers,  and  are  as  "  cross 
as  the  tongs." 

■' Botb  pfirties  went  at  it  liaiiniier  nnd  foiii.'s  ; 
ami  hit  one  aiKitlicr  aii.vwlieic  ami  with  aiiy- 
WiUVi"— James  Fayn. 

To  sell  under  the  hammer.  To  sell  by 
auction.     {^See  etbove.) 

Hammer  of  the  Scotch.  Edward  I. 
On  his  tomb  in  "VVcstniiustcr  Abbey  is 
the  uiscription  '^  Indira rdiis  lomjas  Seo- 
tanun  Malleus  hie  est  "  (Here  is  long 
Edward,  the  hammer  of  the  Scots). 

Ham'mercloth.  The  cloth  that 
covers  the  coach-box,  in  which  hammer, 
nails,  bolts,  etc.,  used  to  be  carried  in 
case  of  accident.  Another  etymolog}-  is 
from  the  Icelandic  liaDir  (a  skin),  skin 
being  used  for  the  purijose.  A  third 
suggestion  is  that  the  word  hatumer 
is  a  corruijtion  of  "hammock,"  the 
seat  which  the  cloth  covers  being  formed 
of  straps  or  webbing  stretched  between 
two  crutches  like  a  sailor's  hammock. 
Still  another  conjecture  is  that  the  word 
is  a  corruption  of  "hamper  cloth,"  the 
hamper  being  used  for  sundry  articles 
required,  and  forming  tlie  coachman's 
box.  The  word  box  seems  to  favoiu" 
this  suggestion. 

Hampton   Court   Conference.     A 

conference  held  at  Hamj^ton  Court  in 
January,  1G04,  to  settle  the  disputes 
between  tlie  Church  party  and  the  Puri- 
tans. It  lasted  three  days,  and  its  result 
was  a  few  slight  alterations  in  the  Book 
of  Common  Prayer. 

Hamshackle.  To  hamshackle  a  horse 
is  to  tie  his  head  to  one  of  his  fore-legs. 

Hamstring.  To  disable  by  severing 
the  tendons  of  the  ham. 

Han.  A'c/«s  of  Han.  The  Chinese 
are  so  called  from  Han  the  foimder  of 
the  twenty-sixth  dynasty,  with  which 
modern  history  commences.     (206-220.) 

Hanap.  A  costly  goblet  used  at  one 
time  on  state  occasions.  Sometimes  the 
cup  used  by  our  Lord  at  Ihe  Last  Supper 
is  so  called.  (Old  High  German,  hnapp, 
a  cup.) 

"He  liad,  indeed,  four  silver  lianai  s  of  liis  own, 
wliicli  had  been  left  hiin  by  his  grandmother." 
—Sir  W.  Scott:  Qutiitin  Duruard,  chap.  iv.  p.  71. 

Han'aper.  Exchequer.  "  Hanaper 
oihce,"  an  office  where  all  writs  relating 
to  the  public  were  formerly  kept  in  a 


hamjier  {in    hanaper'xo'). 
a  cover  for  a  hanap. 


Hanaper   is 


Hand.  A  measure  of  length  =  four 
inches.  Horses  are  measured  up  the  fore 
leg  to  the  shoulder,  and  are  called  14,  15, 
16  (as  it  may  be),  hands  high. 

i.  Hand  (-/).  A  spnbol  of  fortitude 
in  Egyi^t,  of  fidelity  in  Rome.  Two 
hands  symbolise  concord ;  and  a  hand  laid 
on  the  head  of  a  i^erson  indicates  the 
right  of  property.  Thus  if  a  person  laid 
claim  to  a  slave,  he  laid  his  hand  upon 
him  in  the  presence  of  the  praetor.  {A  ulus 
Gellius,  XX.  19.)  By  a  closed  hand  Zeno 
represented  dialectics,  and  by  an  open 
hand  eloquence. 

V  Previous  to  the  twelfth  century 
tlie  Sujjreme  Being  was  represented 
by  a  hand  extended  from  the  clouds ; 
sometimes  the  hand  is  02ien,  with  raj-s 
issuing  from  the  fingers,  but  generally 
it  is  in  the  act  of  benediction,  i.e.  with 
two  fingers  raised, 

ii.  Hand.     (The  final  word. ) 

Bkae  a  Haxd.  Come  and  helj).  Bend 
to  your  work  immediately. 

Cap  IN  Hand.  Suppliantly,  humbly; 
as,  "  To  come  cap  in  hand." 

Dead  Man's  ILvnd.  It  is  said  that 
carrying  a  dead  man's  hand  will  iiroduce 
a  dead  sleeii.  Another  superstition  is 
that  a  lighted  candle  placed  in  the  hand 
of  a  dead  man  gives  no  light  to  anyone 
but  him  who  carries  the  hand.  Hence 
burglars,  even  to  the  jjresent  day  in  some 
jiarts  of  Ireland,  employ  this  method  of 
concealment. 

Empty  Hand.  An  emptij  hand  is  no 
lure  fur  a  hiauk.  You  must  not  expect 
to  receive  anj'tliing  without  giving  a 
retirni.  The  Germans  say,  Wcrsehmiert 
der  fdhrt.  The  Latin  proverb  is  Da,  si 
ris  aceipere,  or  Pro  nilnlo,  nihil  ft. 

Heavt  Hand,  as  "To  rule  with  a 
heavy  hand,"  severely,  with  oppression. 

Old  Hand  {An).     One  experienced. 

Poor  Hand  {A).  An  unskilful  one. 
"  He  is  hut  a  poor  hand  at  it,"  i.e.  he 
is  not  skilful  at  the  work. 

Red  Hand,  or  hhodij  hand,  in  coat 
amiour  is  generally  connected  with  some 
ti'aditional  tale  of  blood,  and  the  liadge 
was  never  to  be  expunged  till  the  bearer 
had  passed,  by  way  of  penance,  seven 
yeai's  in  a  cave,  without  companion, 
without  shaving,  and  without  uttering 
a  single  word. 

In  Aston  church,  near  Birmingham, 
is  a  coat-armorial  of  the  Holts,  the 
"bloody  hand"  of  which  is  thus  ac- 
counted for : — It  is  said  that  Sir  Thomas 


Hand 


57- 


Hands 


Holt,  some  tvro  hundred  years  ago, 
murdered  his  cook  iu  a  cellar  with  a 
spit,  and,  when  pardoned  for  the  offence, 
the  king  enjoined  him,  Ly  way  of  pen- 
alty, to  wear  ever  after  a  "  bloody 
hand ' '  iu  his  family  coat. 

In  the  church  of  Stoke  d'Abemon, 
SuiTey,  there  is  a  red  hand  upon  a 
monument,  the  legend  of  which  is,  that 
a  gentleman  shooting  with  a  friend  was 
so  mortified  at  meeting  with  no  game 
that  he  swore  he  would  shoot  the  first 
live  thing  he  met.  A  miller  was  the 
victim  of  this  rash  vow,  and  the  "  bloody 
hand  "  was  placed  iu  his  family  coat  to 
keep  up  a  perpetual  memorial  of  the 
crime. 

Similar  legends  are  told  of  the  red 
liand  in  Wateringbury  church,  Kent ; 
of  the  red  hand  on  a  table  in  the  hall  of 
Church. Gresly,  in  Derbyshire ;  and  of 
many  others. 

The  open  red  hand,  foiTaingpart  of  the 
amis  of  the  province  of  Ulster,  com- 
memorates the  daring  of  O'Neile,  a  bold 
adventurer,  who  vowed  to  be  first  to 
touch  the  shore  of  Ireland.  Finding  the 
1)oat  in  which  he  was  rowed  outstripped 
Ijy  others,  he  cut  off  his  hand  and  flung 
it  to  the  shore,  to  touch  it  before  those 
in  advance  could  land. 

The  open  red  hand  in  the  armorial 
coat  of  baronets  arose  thus:— James  I. 
in  1611  created  two  hundred  baronets  on 
the  payment  of  ±;1,000  each,  ostensibly 
"for  the  amelioration  of  Ulster,"  and 
from  this  connection  with  Ulster  they 
were  allowed  to  place  on  their  coat 
armour  the  "  open  red  hand,"  up  to  that 
time  bonie  by  the  O'Neiles.  The  O'Xeile 
whose  estates  were  made  forfeit  by  King 
James  was  sumamed  Lamh-deruj  Jiirin 
(red-hand  of  Erin). 

Right  Hand,  lie  is  nuj  right  hand. 
In  France,  Cent  nion  bras  droit,  my  best 
man. 

Secoxd-iiaxd.     {See  Second.) 

Upper  Hand.  To  (jet  the  upper  hand. 
To  obtain  the  mastery. 

YoTJNG  Hand  {A).  A  young  and  in- 
exjieiienced  workman. 

iii.  Hand.  (Phrases  beginning  with 
"To.") 

CoiTE  TO  Hand.  To  amve  ;  to  have 
Ijeen  delivered. 

To  eome  to  one's  hand.  It  is  easy  to  do. 

Get  one's  H^ind  in.  To  become  fa- 
miliar with  the  work  in  hand. 

Have  a  Hand  in  the  Matter.  To 
have  a  finger  in  the  pie.  In  French, 
"■  Mettre  la  main  d  (ptelqae  ehose^ 

Kiss  the  Hand  (Job  xx.xi.  27).    To 


worship  false  gods.  Cicero  (/«  J'errein, 
lib.  iv.  43)  speaks  of  a  statue  of 
Hercules,  the  chin  and  lips  of  which 
were  considerably  worn  by  the  kisses  of 
his  worshippers.  Hosea  (xiii.  2)  says, 
' '  Let  the  men  that  sacrifice  kiss  the 
calves."     ('SVe  Adobe.) 

"  I  linve  loft  me  seven  thnviPaTid  in  Israel  .  .  . 
wUieli  have  not  limved  imto  I5a;il,aiKl  .  .  .  wliicli 
[have]  not  kissed  [their  hand  to]  him.''— 1  Kin.^-'S 
xix.  1,H. 

Lend  a  Hand.    To  help.    In  French, 

"  I'retez  iitoi  la  main." 

Lite  from  Hand  to  Mouth.  To  live 
without  any  provision  for  the  monow. 

Take  in  Hand.  To  undertake  to  do 
something  ;  to  take  the  charge  of. 

iv.  Hand  (preceded  by  a  preposition). 

At  Hand.  Conveniently  near.  "Near 
at  hand,"  quite  close  by.  In  French, 
"  A  la  main.''' 

BefoPvEHAND.  Sooner,  before  it  hap- 
pened. 

Behindhand.  Not  in  time,  not  up  to 
date. 

By  the  Hand  of  God.  "  Aeeldit 
dirinitas." 

Frost  Hand  to  Hand.  From  one 
person  to  another. 

In  Hand.  L'^nder  control,  in  posses- 
sion; under  progr-ess,  as  '^  Aiuir  la 
main  a  Vwuvre." 

"  Keep  him  well  in  hand." 

'•  1  have  some  in  hand.and  more  in  exiiertalion." 

"  I  have  a  new  book  or  picture  in  hand." 

A  lird  in  the  hand.     {See  Bird.) 

Off  Hand.  At  once  ;  ■without  stop- 
ping. 

Off  one''s  hands.  No  longer  under 
one's  responsibilities ;  able  to  maintain 
oneself. 

Out  of  Hand.    At  once,  over. 

"  We  will  proclaim  yon  ont  of  hand." 

Sliukespeare :  3 Henry  VI.,  iv.  7. 
"  And,  were  these  inward  wars  onre  out  of  hand, 
■We  would,  dear  lords,  unto  the  Holy  Land." 
.S/i(i/i'es2)t'rtie:  2  Ilfnnj  IV.,  ill.  1. 

With  a  High  Hand.  Imperiously, 
ari'Ogantly.  In  French,  ^'Faire  qaelqae 
ehose  haat  la  main." 

V.  Hand.     (Miscellaneous  articles.) 
Laying  on  of  Hands.    The  lapug  on 

of  a  bishop's  hands  in  confirmation  or 

ordination. 
Putting    the    H^\Js'd    l'tjdee    the 

Thigh.     An  ancient  ceremony  used  in 

swearing. 

"  And  Aliraham  saiil  >nito  lii^  i'^:.  -i  -  ,  :iiit  .  .  . 
Put,  I  prny  tliee.  tliy  hand  unil   1    (  !  :ind  t 

will  make  tiire  swear  .  .  .  tlun  in  i  -nili  not 
take  a  wife  unto  my  son  of  thr.li,  _::i  r-  .  f  the 
Canaanites."— Genesis  .\xiv.  2,  .3. 

Hands.  Persons  employed  in  a  fnc- 
tory.     We  say  so  many  head  of  cattle  : 


Hands 


576 


Hand  over  Hand 


horse-dealers  count  noses.  Eaces  are 
won  by  the  nose,  and  factory  work  by 
tlie  hand,  but  cattle  have  the  place  of 
honour. 

Hands. 

All.  It  is  believed  on  all  /i  raids.  It 
is  generally  (or  universally)  believed. 

Change.  'J'o  c/uvir/e  liatids.  To  pass 
from  a  possessor  to  someone  else. 

Clean.  He  has  elean  hands.  In 
French,  "J/  a  les  mains  nettes."  That 
is,  he  is  incorruptible,  or  he  has  never 
taken  a  bribe. 

Full.  Mi/  hands  are  fall.  I  am  fully 
occupied  ;  I  have  as  much  work  to  do  as  I 
can  manage.  A  "handful"  has  the 
plural  "  handfuls,"  as  "  two  handfuls," 
same  as  "two  barrow- loads,"  "two 
cart-loads,"  etc. 

Good.  I  have  it  from  verijf/ood  hands. 
I  have  received  my  information  on  good 
authority. 

Lay.     To  luij  hands  on.      To  appre- 
hend ;  to  lay  hold  of.     (6V.r  No.  v.) 
"  Lay  bands  on  the  villiiin." 
HhuUcspeare :  Tumijuj  oftlir  Shreii\  v.  L 

Long.  Kings  hare  long  hands.  In 
French,  "Les  roisoiit  les  mains  longiies." 
That  is,  it  is  hard  to  escape  from  the 
vengeance  of  a  king,  for  his  hands  or 
agents  extend  over  the  whole  of  his 
kingdom. 

Shake.  To  shake  hands.  To  salute 
by  giving  a  hand  received  into  your  own 
a  shake. 

I'o  strike  hands  (Prov.  xvii.  18).  To 
make  a  contract,  to  become  surety  for 
another.  {See  also  Prov.  vii.  1  and  xxii. 
26.)  The  English  custom  of  shaking  hands 
in  confinnation  of  a  bargain  has  been 
ciimuKui  ti)  all  nations  and  all  ages.  In 
feudal  times  the  vassal  put  his  hands  in 
the  hands  of  his  overlord  on  taking  the 
oath  of  fidelity  and  homage. 

Shop  "  7/ff«f/.v,"  etc.  Men  and  women 
employed  in  a  shop. 

Take  off.  'To  take  off  one^s  hands. 
To  relieve  one  of  something  troublesome, 
as  "  Will  no  one  take  this  [task]  ofi  my 
hands';' " 

Wash.  To  wash  one^s  hands  of  a  thing. 
In  French,  "  (Se  lever  les  mains  d^nnc 
ehose^^  or  '^  Je  m^cn  tare  les  mai)is.''  I 
will  have  nothing  to  do  with  it ;  I  will 
abandon  it  entirely.  The  allusion  is 
to  Pilate's  washing  his  hands  at  the 
trial  of  Jesus. 

"  Wlion  Pil;ili's;nvtli:il  lie  could  prevail  notliinpr, 
I'lit  iliat  ratlicr  n  tiinuilt  was  inadc,  lii'  took  water, 
and  washed  ids  liaiuls  liefore  Hie  iiuiUitude,  say- 
iML,'.  I  am  iiiiHieeiii,  of  the  Idoort  of  this  just 
jHTSoii  :  see  ye  to  it,"— Matt,  xxvii.  IM. 

^  Hand  -  book.  Spelmau  says  that 
Xing  Alfred  used  to  carry  in  Ids  bosom 


memorandum  leaves,  in  which  he  made 
observations,  and  took  so  much  pleasure 
therein  that  he  called  it  his  hand-book, 
because  it  was  always  in  his  hand. 

Hand-gallop.  A  slow  and  easy  gallop, 
in  which  the  horse  is  kept  well  in  hand. 

Hand  Paper.  A  particular  sort  of 
ggjx.  »  isaper  well  known  in  the  Record 
^^  Office,  and  so  called  from  its 
water-mark,  which  goes  back  to  the  fif- 
teenth centmy. 

Hand-post  (A).  A  direction-post  to 
direct  travellers  the  way  to  different 
places. 

Hand  Round  (To).  To  pass  from  one 
lierson  to  another  in  a  regular  series. 

Hand  and  Glove  ( The//  arc).  In- 
separable companions,  of  like  tastes  and 
like  affections.  They  fit  each  other  like 
hand  and  glove. 

Hand  and  Seal.  When  writing  was 
limited  to  a  few  clerks,  documents  were 
authenticated  by  the  impression  of  the 
hand  dipped  in  ink,  and  then  the  seal 
was  duly  appended.  As  dipping  the 
hand  in  ink  was  dirty,  the  imj)ression  of 
the  thumb  was  substituted.  We  are 
informed  that  "  scores  of  old  English 
and  French  deeds  still  exist  in  which 
such  'signatures'  appear."  Subsequently 
the  name  was  written,  and  this  writing 
was  called  "  the  hand." 

"  Uiihcft :  Here  is  your  hand  and  seal  for  wliat  I 
did. 
K'niij  Jnhii :  Oh,  when  the  last  account  "twixt 

lii-iveuand  earth 
Is  to  he  made,  then  shall  this  hand  and  seal 
Witness  agaiust  us  to  damnation." 

lihakcsiieure,:  K buj  Juhn ,  \\- .  i.    , 

Hand -in -Hand.  In  a  famihar  or 
kindly  manner,  as  when  persons  go 
hand-in-hand. 

"  Now  wc  maun  totter  down.  John, 
But  hand  in  hand  we'll  go." 

John  Anderson,  my  .To. 

Hand  of  Cards.  The  whole  deal  of 
cards  given  to  a  single  player.  The 
cards  which  he  holds  in  his  hand. 

"A  saint  in  heaven  would  grieve  to  s;?e  such 
' hand ' 
Cut  up  hy  one  who  will  not  understand." 

Crabbe:  Iluroiiyli. 

Hand  of  Justice.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  sceptre  or  baton  anciently  used 
by  kings,  which  had  an  ivory  hand  at 
the  tof»  of  it. 

Hand  over  Hand.  To  go  or  to  come 
up  baud  over  liand,  is  to  travel  with 
great  rapidit}',  as  climbing  a  rope  or  a 
ladder,  or  as  one  vessel  overtakes  another. 
Sailors  in  hauhng  a  rope  put  one  hand 


Saiid  the 


577 


Hang  Out 


over  the  other  alternately  as  fast  as  they 
can.     In  French,  ^^  Main  siir  main y 

"Cmnmaudnient  fait  aux  matelots  qui  halent 
siir  une  manoeuvre  pour  qu'ils  passent  alteriia- 
tivement  uue  main  sur  I'autre  9;ius  iuterruption, 
et  pour  qae  le  travail  sefassephis  prumptemeut." 
—Royal  Dictioiinaire. 

Hand  the  Sail,  i.e.  furl  it. 

Hand  Down  to  Posterity  {To).  To 
leave  for  future  generations. 

Handfasting.  A  sort  of  marriage. 
A  fair  was  at  one  time  held  in  Dum- 
friesshire, at  which  a  young  man  was 
allowed  to  pick  out  a  female  companion 
to  live  with  him.  They  lived  together 
for  twelve  mouths,  and  if  they  both 
liked  the  arrangement  were  man  and 
wife.  This  was  called  hnnd-J'asti)i(/  or 
hand-fastening. 

This  sort  of  contract  was  common 
among  the  Eonians  and  Jews,  and  is  not 
unusual  in  the  East  even  new. 

" '  Knowest  thou  not  that  rite,  holy  man  ?'  said 
Aveuel  .  .  .  . ;  'then  I  will  tell  tliee.  We  border- 
men  ....  take  our  wives  fur  a  year  and  a  day  ; 
that  space  i-rnue  by.  each  may  choose  another 
mate,  nr,  at  their  pleasure,  [tliey]  may  call  the 
priest  to  marry  them  for  life,  and  this  we  call 
handfasting.'  "  —  •^''C  H'.  Scutt :  'lite  Munaattry, 
chap.  XXV. 

Handicap.  A  game  at  cards  not 
unlike  loo,  but  with  this  tlifference — the 
winner  of  one  tiick  has  to  put  iu  a  double 
stake,  the  winner  of  two  tricks  a  triple 
stake,  and  so  on.  Thus  :  Lf  six  persons 
are  playing,  and  the  general  stake  is  Is., 
and  A  gains  three  tricks,  he  gains  6s., 
and  has  to  "hand  i'  the  cap"  or  pool 
3s.  for  the  next  deal.  Suppose  A  gains 
two  tricks  and  B  one,  then  A  gains  4s. 
and  B  2s.,  and  A  has  to  stake  '6s.  and  B 
2s.  for  the  next  deal. 

"To  the  'Mitre  Tavern"  in  Wood  Street, a hou.se 
of  the  greate.^t  note  in  London.  Here  some  of  us 
fell  to  handicap,  a  sport  I  never  knew  before, 
which  was  very  eimd."—Pepys :  His  Uiarii,  Se\it. 
18th,  1G80. 

Handicap,  in  racing,  is  the  adjudging 
of  various  weights  to  horses  differing  iu 
age,  power,  or  speed,  in  order  to  place 
them  all,  as  far  as  possible,  on  an 
equality.  If  two  unequal  players  chal- 
lenge each  other  at  chess,  the  superior 
gives  up  a  piece,  and  this  is  his  handi- 
cap. So  called  from  the  ancient  game 
referred  to  by  Pepys.  {Sec  Sweep- 
stakes, Plate-eace,  etc.) 

The  Winner's  Handicap.  The  winning 
horses  of  previous  races  being  pitted 
together  in  a  race  roj^al  are  first  handi- 
capped according  to  their  respective 
merits  :  the  horse  that  has  won  three 
races  has  to  carry  a  greater  weight  than 
the  horse  that  has  won  only  two,  and 

37 


this  latter  more  than  its  competitor  who 
is  winner  of  a  single  race  only. 

Handkerchief.  "  The  committee  teas 
at  a  loss  to  know  tchom  next  to  throw  the 
handkerchief  to''  {The  Times).  The 
meaning  is  that  the  committee  did  not 
know  whom  they  were  to  ask  next  to 
make  a  speech  for  them  :  and  the  allu- 
sion is  to  the  game  called  in  Norfolk 
"  Stir  up  the  dumplings,"  and  by  girls 
"  Kiss  in  the  ring." 

Handkerchief  and  Sword.     With 

ha>nlktrchief  in  one  hand  and  sword 
in  the  otlier.  Pretending  to  be  sorry 
at  a  calamity,  but  prej)ared  to  make 
capital  out  of  it. 

"Abbe  George  ....  mentions  in  [a  letter],  that 
' Maria  Theresa  stands  with  the  handkerchief  in 
one  hand,  weepini;  for  the  woes  of  Poland,  but 
with  the  sword  iu  the  other  hand,  ready  to  cut 
P(jland  in  sections,  and  take  her  share."  "'— 
Carlyle:  The  Diamond  Necklace,  chap.  iv. 

Handle.  He  has  a  handle  to  his  name. 
Some  title,  as  "lord,"  "sir,"  "doctor." 
The  French  say  Monsieur  sans  queue,  a 
man  without  a  tail  (handle  to  his  name). 
To  (/ire  a  handle  to  ...  .  To  give 
grounds  for  suspicion  ;  as,  "He  certainly 
gave  a  handle  to  the  rumour." 

"  He  crave  a  handle  to  his  enemies,  and  threw 
9tiinililin!,'-l)locks  in  the  way  of  his  friends."'— 
llazlitt:  Spirit  nf  the  Aye  (James  Macintosh;,  p.  l:;ii. 

Handsome  =  liberal.  To  do  the  thing 
that  is  handaome ;  to  act  handsomely ;  to 
do  handsome  towards  one. 

Handwriting  en  the  WaU  {The). 
An  aunouncenient  of  some  coming 
calamity.  The  allusion  is  to  the  hand- 
writing on  Belshazzar's  palace-wall 
announcing  the  loss  of  his  kingdom. 
(Dan.  V.  5-31.) 

Handycufis.  Cuffs  or  blows  given 
by  the  hand.  "Fisticuffs"  is  now  more 
common. 

Hang  Back  [To).  To  hesitate  to 
proceed. 

Hang  Fire  {To).  To  fail  iu  an  ex- 
pected result.  The  allusion  is  to  a  gun 
or  pistol  which  fails  to  go  off. 

Hang  On  {To).  To  cling  to;  to 
persevere  ;  to  be  dependent  on. 

Hang  Out.  Where  do  you  hang  out  ? 
Where  are  you  living,  or  lodging  ?  Tho 
allusion  is  to  the  custom,  now  restricted 
to  public-houses,  but  once  very  general, 
of  hanging  before  one's  shop  a  sign 
indicating  the  nature  of  the  business 
earned  on  within.  Druggists  often  still 
place  coloured  bottles  in  their  windows, 
and  some  tobacconists  place  near  their 


Hangdog 


578 


Hangmen 


shop  door  the  statue  of  a  Scotclimau. 
(See  D.ckcns :   I'lckiiuk   Papers,  cliaji. 

XXX.) 

Hangdog  Lock  {A).  A  guilty, 
shainelaced  look. 

"  Look  n  liltic  l)ri.skcr,iiian,rind  not  so  hansdog- 
like."— y-iic/.t-iis. 

Hang  by  a  Thread  {Tu).     To  be  in 

a  very  ])recarious  position.  The  allusion 
is  to  the  sword  of  DamScles.  {!Sce 
D.ua:ocLEs'  Sword.) 

Hang  in  the  Bell  Ropes  {To).  To 
he  asked  at  cliurch,  and  then  defer  the 
marriage  so  that  the  bells  hang  tire. 

Hanged  or  Strangled.  Examples 
from  the  ancient  classic  writers  : — 

(1)  Ac'hius,  Kin?  of  L.vdia,  endeavoured  to 
niise  a  new  tribiile  from  his  siilpjects,  and  was 
hanged  hy  the  eura.Lred  i"iiiulace.  who  threw  the 
dead  liody  into  the  river  Pacto'liis. 

(•1)  Ama'ta,  wife  of  KiuK  Lati'iius,  promised 
her  daughter  Lavin'ia  to  King  Turuus  ;  wlien, 
liowever,  she  was  given  in  marriage  to  -Ene'iis, 
Ania'ta  hanged  herself  that  she  might  not  see  the 
hated  stranger.    (Virgil:  yE/ieirf,  vii.) 

(3)  Abach'xk,  the  most  skilful  of  needle- 
women, hanged  herself  because  she  was  outdone 
in  a  trial  of  skill  by  Minerva.  (Or/d;  ilelamor- 
phoses,  vi.  fab.  1.) 

(4)  AnTOi.'vcA,  mother  of  Ulysses,  hanged  her- 
self in  despair  on  receiving  false  news  of  her 
son's  death. 

(5)  Boso'sus,  a  Spaniard  hy  birth,  was  strangled 
l>y  the  Emperor  I'rolius  for  assuming  the  imperial 
purple  in  Haul.    (a.d.  asii.) 

(ly  JPHis.a  beautiful  youth  of  Salamis,  of  mean 
birth,  hanged  himself  liecanse  h's  addresses  were 
rejected  by  Anaxar'eie,  a  girl  of  Salamis  of  simi- 
lar rank  in  life.  ^OviU  :  Metamorphoses,  xiv.  70», 
etc.) 

(7)  Lati'xus,  wife  of.    C'^ee  Amata.  above.) 

(8)  Lycam'bes,  father  of  Neobi/la,  who  be- 
trothed her  to  Archil'ochos,  the  poet.  He  broke 
liis  promise,  and  gave  her  in  marriage  to  a 
wealthier  man.  Archil'ochos  so  scourged  them 
by  his  satires  that  both  father  and  daughter 
hanged  themselves. 

(9)  NEOIiU'I>A.     (See  above.)  • 

(10)  Phyllis,  Queen  of  Thrace,  the  accepted  of 
Demoph'oiin,  who  stopped  on  her  coasts  on  his 
return  from  Troy.  Demophodn  was  called  away 
to  Athens,  and  promised  to  return  ;  but,  failing  so 
to  do,  Phyllis  hanged  herself. 

Hanged,  Drawn,  and  Quartered. 

{See  Dkawn.) 

Hanger  {A).  Properly  the  fringed 
loop  or  strap  hung  to  the  girdle  by  wliich 
the  dagger  was  suspended,  but  applied 
by  a  common  figure  of  speech  to  the 
sword  or  dagger  itself. 

"  Men's  swords  in  hangers  hang  fast  by  their 
Bide."—/.  Taylor  (lOi). 

Hanging.  Hanging  and  vtvhig  go 
hg  desting.  "  If  a  man  is  doomed  to  be 
hanged,  he  will  never  be  drowned."  And 
"marriages  are  made  in  heaven,"  we 
are  told. 

"  If  matrimony  and  hanging  go 
By  dest'ny,  why  not  whipping  too  ? 
■What  med  cine  else  can  cure  the  fits 
Of  lovers  when  they  lose  their  wits  ? 
Love  is  a  boy,  by  poets  styled. 
Then  spare  the  rod  and  spoil  the  child." 
Bailer :  Jlmlibras,  part  ii.  canto  i.  S3a-844. 


Hanging  Gale  (J'/u).  The  custom 
of  takiug  six  mouths'  grace  in  the 
payment  of  rent  wluch  prevailed  in 
Ireland. 

"  We  went  to  collect  the  rents  due  the  ;5th 
March,  but  which,  owing  to  the  custom  which 
prevails  in  Ireland  known  as  'the  hanging  gale,' 
are  never  demanded  till  the  -'«th  September."— 
'I'lic  Times,  November,  lh85. 

Hanging    Gardens    of    Babylon. 

Four  acres  of  garden  raiseil  on  a  base 
supported  by  pillars,  and  towering  in 
terraces  one  above  another  300  feet  in 
height.  At  a  distance  they  looked  like  a 
vast  pyramid  covered  with  trees.  This 
mound  was  constructed  by  Nebuchad- 
nezzar to  gratify  his  wife  Am'ytis,  who 
felt  weary  of  the  flat  plains  of  Babylon, 
and  longed  for  something  to  remind  Iter 
of  her  native  Me'dian  hills.  One  of  the 
"  seven  wonders  of  the  world." 

Hangman's  Acre,  Gains,  and 
Gain's  Alley  (London),  in  tlie  liberty 
of  St.  Catherine.  Strj'pe  says  it  is  a 
corruption  of  "  Hammes  and  Guynes," 
so  called  becatise  refugees  from  those 
places  were  allowed  to  lodge  there  in 
the  reign  of  Queen  Mary  after  the  loss 
of  Calais.  (See  also  Stoic :  Jlintori/, 
vol.  ii.  ;  list  of  streets.) 

Hangman's  Wages.  13^d.  The 
ft  e  given  to  the  executioner  at  Tyburn, 
with  Hd.  for  the  rojie.  This  was  the 
value  of  a  Scotch  merk,  and  therefore 
points  to  the  reign  of  James,  who  decreed 
that  "the  coin  of  silver  called  the  mark- 
piece  shall  be  current  within  the  king- 
dom at  the  value  of  13id."  Noblemen 
who  were  to  be  beheaded  were  expected 
to  give  the  executioner  from  £7  to  £10 
for  cutting  off  their  head. 

"  For  half  of  thirteen-pence  ha'jenny  wages 
I  would  have  cleared  all  the  town  <'agcs, 
And  you  shoiUd  have  been  rid  of  all  the  stages 
I  and  my  gallows  groan." 
The  Ifaveman's  Last  Will  and  Testammt. 

Ulfii'l'  Suiige.)  ' 

V  The  present  price  (1894)  is  about 
£40.  Calcraft's  charge  was  £33  14s., 
plus  assistant  £5  5s.,  other  fees  £1  Is., 
to  which  he  added  "  expenses  for  erect- 
ing the  scaffold." 

Hangmen  and  Executioners. 

(1)  Bull  is  the  earliest  hangman  whose  name 
survives  (about  1593). 
(•J)  Jock  Suthkulaxd. 

(3)  DBiinicK,  who  cut  off  the  head  of  Essex  in 
IGol. 

(4)  GnBHOKT.  Father  and  son,  mentioned  by 
Sir  Walter  Scott  (1W7). 

(5)  (TitKGORY  BllAXDOX  (abOUt  1M8). 

(Ill  Richard  Buasdox,  his  son,  who  executed 
Charles  I. 

(7)  syuiUB  Dux,  mentioned  hy  Hudibras  (part 
iii.c.  y. 

(8)  JACK  Krtch  (1678)  executed  Lord  Russell 
and  the  Duke  of  Monmouth. 


Hankey  Pankey 


579 


Happy  Valley 


(9)  Rose,  the  butcher  (1GS6) :  but  Jack  Ketch 
was  restDred  to  offlce  the  s:ime  year. 

(in)  Edwaud  Df.ssis  (1780),  introduced  as  a 
character  in  Dickens's  Barnaby  Rudge. 

(11)  Thomas  Cheshiue,  nicknamed  "  Old 
Cheese." 

(!•-')  .lOHX    CALCBAPT  ;     MARWOOD  ;     BKURT  ; 

etc. 

(13)  Of  foreir^n  execntiimers,  the  most  cele- 
brated are  Little  John  :  Caiieluiiic.  headnman  of 
P.ivis  durinij  the  terrible  da.vs  of  the  Annnfe'iiacs 
and  Biu7,'undians  ;  and  the  two  brothers  Sanson, 
who  were  executioners  durins  the  llrst  French 
Revolution. 

V  Hudibras,  under  the  name  of  Dun, 
"  personates  "  Sir  Arthur  Hazeh-ig,  ''  the 
activest  "  of  the  five  members  impeached 
by  King  Charles  I.  The  other  f  om-  were 
Monk,  Walton,  Morley,  and  Alured. 

Eanksy  Pankey.    Jugglery ;  fraud. 

Hanoverian  Shield.  This  escut- 
cheon used  to  be  added  to  the  aiTus  of 
England  ;  it  was  placed  in  the  centre  of 
the  shield  to  show  that  the  House  of 
Hanover  came  to  the  crown  by  election, 
and  not  by  conquest.  Conquerors  strike 
out  arms  of  a  conquered  country,  and 
l)lace  their  own  in  lieu. 

Hans  von  Rippach  [yip-palc].  Jack 
of  liipjaach,  a  Monsieur  Nong-tong-pas 
— i.e.  someone  asked  for  who  does  not 
exist.  A  gay  German  spark  calls  at  a 
house  and  asks  for  Herr  Haus  von  liip- 
pach.     Rippach  is  a  village  near  Leipsic. 

Hansards.  The  printed  records  of 
Bills  before  Parliament,  the  reports  of 
committees,  parliamentary  debates,  and 
some  of  the  national  accounts.  Till  the 
business  was  made  into  a  company  the 
reports  commanded  a  good  respect,  but 
in  1892  the  company  was  wound  up. 
Luke  Hansard,  the  founder  of  the  busi- 
ness came  from  Norwich,  and  was  born 
in  17o2. 

V  Other  parliamentary  business  was 
printed  by  other  firms. 

HansQ  Towns.  The  maritime  cities 
of  Germany,  which  belonged  to  the  Hau- 
seatic  League  {q.v.). 

"The  Hanse  towns  of  Liibeck,  Bremen,  and 
llimbnr.ij  are  eomniimwealtbs  even  now  (ls77).'' 
—Freeman:  General  Sketch,  chap.  x.  p.  174. 

Hanseat'ic  League.  The  first  trade 
union  ;  it  was  established  in  the  twelfth 
century  by  certain  cities  of  Northern 
Genuany  for  their  mutual  prosperity 
and  protection.  The  diet  which  used  to 
be  held  every  three  years  was  called 
the  Ilansa,  and  the  members  of  it  Han- 
sards. The  league  in  its  prosperity 
comprised  eighty-five  towns;  it  declined 
rapidly  in  the  Thirty  Years'  War;  in 
1669  only  six  cities  were  represented  ; 
and  the  last  three  members  of  the  league 


(Hamburg,  Liibeck,  and  Bremen)  joined 
the  German  Customs  Unions'  in  1889. 
(German,  am-see,  on  the  sea ;  and  the 
league  was  originally  called  the  Ain-see- 
staaten,  free  cities  on  the  sea.) 

Hansel.  A  gift  or  bribe,  the  first 
money  received  in  a  day.  Hence  Hansel 
Monday,  the  first  Monday  of  the  year. 
To  "  hansel  our  swords  "  is  to  use  them 
for  the  first  time.  In  Norfolk  we  hear  of 
hanselling  a  coat — i.e.  wearing  it  for 
the  first  time.  Lemon  tells  us  that 
superstitious  people  will  spit  on  the  first 
money  taken  at  market  for  luck,  aud 
Misson  says,  '■'■lis  le  haisent  en  le  rece- 
vant,  craschcnt  dcssus,  et  le  mcttent  dans 
tine  pnche  apart. ''^  (^Travels  in  Englujid, 
p.  192.) 

Hansel  Monday.  The  Monday  after 
New- Year's  Day,  when  "  hansels,"  or 
free  gifts,  were  given  in  Scotland  to  serv- 
ants and  children.  Our  boxing-day  is  the 
first  weekday  after  Christmas  Day. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  handselcn  ;  hand  and  sel- 
lan,  to  give.) 

Hansom  (A).  A  light  two-wheeled 
cab,  in  which  the  driver  sits  behind  the 
vehicle,  and  communicates  with  the 
passenger  through  a  trap-door  in  the 
roof.  Invented  by  Aloysius  Hansom  of 
York  (1803-1882).  Hansom  was  by 
trade  an  architect  at  Binningham  and 
at  Hinckley  in  Leicestershire. 

Hapznouche  (2  syl.).  The  giant  fly- 
catcher. He  invented  the  art  of  drying 
and  smoking  neats'  tongues.  {Diicltat : 
(Ell  V res  de  liabelais.) 

Happy  Arabia.  A  mistranslation 
of  the  Latin  Arabia  fcUx,  which  means 
simply  on  the  right  hand — i.e.  to  the 
right  hand  of  Al-Shan  (Syria).  It  was 
Ptolemy  who  was  the  author  of  the 
threefold  division  Arabia  I'etrcra,  mis- 
called "Stony  Arabia,"  but  really  so 
called  from  its  chief  cityPetra;  Arabia 
Felix  (or  Yemoi),  the  south-west  coast; 
and  as  for  Arabia  descrta  (meaning  the 
interior)  probably  he  referred  to  Xedjaz. 

Happy  Expression  (,/).  A  well- 
turned  phrase  ;  a  word  or  phrase  pecu- 
liarly apt.  The  French  also  say  "  Vnc 
heiireuse  expression,''''  and  '^  S'exprimer 
heiireiiseinent.'" 

Happy-go-lucky  (A).  One  indif- 
ferent to  his  interests  ;  one  who  looks 
to  good  luck  to  befriend  him. 

Happy  Valley,  in  Dr.  Johnson's 
tale  of  Rassclas,  is  placed  in  the  king- 
dom of  Amhara,  aud  was  inaccessible 


Happy 


58d 


Sard 


excejjt  in  one  spot  through  a  cave  in  a 
rock.  It  was  a  Garden  of  Paradise 
where  resided  tlie  princes  of  Abj-ssiiiia. 

Happy  as  a  Clam  at  High  Tide. 

The  clam  is  a  bivalve  mollusc,  dug  from 
its  bed  of  sand  only  at  low  tide  ;  at  high 
tide  it  is  quite  safe  from  molestation. 
{See  Close  as  a  Clam.  ) 

Happy  as  a  King.  This  idea  of 
happiness  is  wealth,  position,  freedom, 
and  luxurious  living ;  but  Richard  II. 
says  a  king  is  "  Woe's  slave  "  (iii.  2). 

V  Ou  the  happiness  of  kings,  sea 
Shakespeare:  Henry  V.,  iv.  1. 

Happy  the  People  whose  Annals 
are    Tiresome.       (Jfm/tcsij/iini.)      Of 

course,  wars,  rebellions,  troubles,  make 
up  the  most  exciting  parts  of  history. 

Hapsburg.     {Sec  Habsbueg.) 

Har.  The  first  person  of  the  Scandi- 
navian Trinity,  which  consists  of  Har 
(the  Mighty),  the  Like  Mighty,  and 
the  Third  Person.  This  Trinity  is  called 
"The  Mysterious  Three,"  and  they  sit 
on  three  thrones  above  the  Rainbow. 
The  next  in  order  are  the  iEsir  (<?.r.),  of 
which  Odin,  the  chief,  lives  in  Asgard, 
on  the  heavenly  hills  between  Earth  and 
the  Rainbow.  The  third  order  is  the 
Vanir  (see  Van) — the  gods  of  the  ocean, 
air,  and  clouds — of  which  Van  Niiird  is 
the  chief.  Har  has  already  passed  his 
ninth  incarnation  ;  in  his  tenth  he  will 
take  the  forms  first  of  a  peacock,  and 
then  of  a  horse,  when  all  the  followers 
of  Mahomet  will  be  destroyed. 

Har,  in  Indian  mythology,  is  the 
second  person  of  the  Trinity. 

Ha'ram  or  Ha'rem,  means  in  Arabic 
forbiddeji,  or  not  to  be  riolitted ;  a  name 
given  by  Mahometans  to  those  apart- 
ments which  are  appropriated  exclu- 
sively to  the  female  members  of  a  family. 

Har'apha.  A  descendant  of  Og  and 
Anak,  a  giant  of  Gath,  who  went  to 
mock  Samson  in  prison,  but  durst  not 
venture  within  his  reach.  The  word 
means  the  giant.  {Milton :  Samson 
Agonistes.) 

Har'binger.  One  who  looks  out  for 
lodgings,  etc. ;  a  courier  ;  hence,  a  fore- 
runner, a  messenger.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
here,  an  army  ;  hergan,  to  lodge.) 

"  T'll  lip  myself  tlie  liaiiiincer,  and  make  jovful 
^  TLie  heariiit'  of  my  wife  with  yciiii-  api>ro;icli." 
.  Sh'iket^iiecire :  Macbeth,  i.  i. 

Harcourt's  Round  Table.  A  pri- 
vate conference  in  the  house  of  Sir  Wil- 
liam Harcourt,  January  14,  1S87,  with 


the  view  of  reuniting,  if  possible,  the 
Liberal  party,  broken  up  by  Mr.  Glad- 
stone's Irish  policy. 

Tlie  iiliiase  "  liciund  TaMe  "  is  American,  mean- 
ing what  tlie  Kieiieh  rail  are?r(e, or  clubliieetiub'S 
held  at  each  cither's  hiiuses. 

Hard,  meaning  difficult,  is  like  the 
French  diir ;  as,  "hard  of  hearing," 
"  qi(i  a  Vorcille  dure  ;  "  "a  hard  word," 
"  ?««  terme  diir;^^  "'tis  a  hard  case," 
'^  c''est  line  chose  bien  dure;''''  "hard 
times,"  " /('«  temps  sont  diirs;^^  so  also 
"hardly  earned,"  '■^  (jii'^on  gagne  bien 
diirenient ;  "  "  hard  -  featured,"  "  dont 
les  traits  sont  d/irs;''  "hard-hearted," 
"(7?«  a  le  coeur  diir,''^  and  many  other 
lihrases. 

Hard  By.  Near.  Hard  means  close, 
pressed  close  together  ;  hence  iirm  or 
solid,  in  close  proximity  to. 

"  Hard  by  a  shelterin,;;  wniid." 

IliUid  Mullet :  Edwin  mid  Emma. 

Hard  Lines.  Hard  terms  ;"  rather 
rough  treatment ;"  exacting.  Lines  mean 
lot  or  allotment  (measured  out  by  a  line 
measure),  as,  "The  lines  have  fallen  to 
me  in  ])lcasant  places ;  yea,  I  liave  a 
goodly  heritage, "  i.e.  my  allotment  is 
excellent.  Hard  lines  =  an  unfavour- 
able allotment  (or  task). 

"That  was  hard  lines  iipun  me, after  I  had  b'iven 
uji  everything."— R.  Eliat. 

Hard  Up.  Short  of  monej'.  "  S'aroir 
pas  de  fjiiibifs.'"  "  Up  "  often  =  out,  as, 
"used  u]),"  "worn  out,"  "done  up," 
etc.  "Hard  up"  =  nearly  out  [of 
cafeh].  In  these,  and  all  similar  ex- 
amples, "Up"  is  the  Old  English  rfer, 
over;  Latin,  s-uper ;  Greek,  uTrep. 

Hard  as  Nails.  Stern,  hard-hearted, 
unsympathetic  ;  able  to  stand  hard  blows 
like  nails.  Religious  bigotrj',  strait- 
lacedness,  rigid  puritanical  phari^aism, 
make  men  and  women  "  hard  as  nails." 

"I  know  I'm  as  hard  as  nails  already  ;  I  don't 
want  to  fret  mure  so."— Edna  Lyall :  bonotmi, 
chaii.  xxiii. 

Hard  as  a  Stone,  "hard  as  iron," 
"hard  as  brawn,"  "hard  as  ice,"  "hard 
as  adamant,"  etc.     {See  Similes.) 

Hard    as   the    Nether  Millstone. 

Unfeelhig,  obdurate.  The  lower  or 
"  nether  "  of  the  two  millstones  is 
firmly  fixed  and  very  hard  ;  the  upper 
stone  revolves  round  it  on  a  shaft,  and 
the  corn,  running  down  a  tube  inserted 
in  the  upper  stone,  is  ground  by  the 
motion  of  the  upper  stone  round  the 
lower  one.  Of  course,  the  upper  wheel 
is  made  to  revolve  by  some  power  acting 
on  it,  as  wind,  water,  or  some  other 
mechanical  force. 


Hardouin 


581 


Hare 


Hardouin  (2  syl.).  £^en  Hardoxin 
would  tiijt  vbject.  Said  in  apology  of  an 
historical  or  chronological  incident  in- 
troduced into  a  treatise  against  which 
some  captious  persons  take  exception. 
Jean  Hardouin,  the  learned  Jesuit,  was 
librarian  to  Louis  le  Grand.  He  was  so 
fastidious  that  lie  doubted  the  truth  of 
all  received  history,  denied  the  authen- 
ticity of  the  JE)U'id  of  Virgil,  the  Odes 
of  Horace,  etc. ;  placed  no  faith  in 
medals  and  coins,  regarded  all  councils 
before  that  of  Trent  as  chimerical, 
and  looked  on  Descartes,  Malebranche, 
Pascal,  and  all  Jausenists  as  infidels. 
(1646-1729.) 

"Even  Pere  Hardouin  would  not  enter  liis  pro- 
test against  such  a  collection."— L>r.  A.  Clarke: 
lissay. 

Hardy  {Letitia).  Heroine  of  the 
Belle's  IStratagcnt,  by  Mrs.  Cowley.  She 
is  a  young  lady  of  fortune  destined  to 
marry  Doricourt.  She  lirst  assumes 
the  air  of  a  raw  country  hoyden  and 
disgusts  the  fastidious  man  of  fashion ; 
then  she  appears  at  a  masquerade  and 
wins  him.  The  marriage  is  performed 
at  midnight,  and  Doricourt  does  not 
know  that  the  masquerader  and  hoyden 
are  the  same  Miss  Hardy  till  after  the 
ceremony  is  over. 

Hardy(7%c),  !.^.  brave  or  daring,  hence 
the  phrase,  "  hardi  comme  uii  lion.'''' 

(1)  William  Douglas,  defender  of  Ber- 
wick (died  1302). 

(2)  Philippe  III.  of  France,  le  Hardi 
(124,%  1270-128.5). 

(o)  Philippe  II.,  Due  de  Bourgogne, 
le  Hardi  (1342,  1363-1382). 

Hare.  It  is  unlucky  for  a  hare  to 
cross  your  path,  because  witches  were 
said  to  transform  themselves  into  hares. 

"  Nor  did  we  meet,  witli  nimble  feet, 
One  little  fiMrfiil  iepus  ; 
Tliat  certain  siu'ii,  as  some  divine. 
Of  foraiiie  iiad  to  keep  us." 

ElUson  :  Trip  to  Ecnvelt,  Ix. 

V  In  the  Flamborour/h  Vrllar/e  and 
Headland,  we  are  told,  "  if  a  fishennan 
on  his  way  to  the  boats  happens  to  meet 
a  woman,  par.son,  or  hare,  he  will  turn 
back,  being  convinced  that  he  will  have 
ni>  luck  that  day." 

Aiitipiitliii  to  hares.  Tycho  Brahe 
(2  syl.)  would  faint  at  the  sight  of  a 
hare  ;  the  Due  d'Epernon  at  the  sight 
of  a  leveret ;  Marshal  de  Breze  at  sight 
of  a  rabbit ;  and  Henri  III. ,  the  Duke  of 
Schomberg,  and  the  chamberlain  of  the 
emperor  Ferdinand,  at  the  sight  of  a  cat. 
{^See  Antipathy.) 

First  cateh  your  hare.     {See  Catch.) 

Hold  icit/t  the  hare  and  run  nith  the 
fiqunds,    To  play  a  double  and  deceitful 


game,  to  be  a  traitor  in  the  camp.  To 
run  with  the  hounds  as  if  intent  to  catch 
the  hare,  but  all  the  while  being  the 
secret  friend  of  poor  Wat.  In  the 
American  war  these  double-dealers  were 
called  Copperheads  ((?.«'.). 

Mad  as  a  Mareh  hare.  Hares  are  un- 
usually shy  and  wild  in  March,  which  is 
their  rutting  season. 

V  Erasmus  says  "  Mad  as  a  marsh 
hare,"  and  adds,  "hares  are  wilder  in 
marshes  from  the  absence  of  hedges  and 
cover."     (Aphorisms,-^. '1QQ\   1542.) 

Melaneltoly  as  a  hare  (Shakespeare : 
1  Henry  IV.,  \.  2).  According  to  me- 
dieval quackery,  the  Hesh  of  hare  was 
supposed  to  generate  melancholy  ;  and 
all  foods  imparted  their  own  speciality. 

The  quakiny  hare,  in  Drydeu's  Rind 
and  Panther,  means  the  Quakers. 
"Among  the  timorous  kind,  the  quaking  hare 

Professed  neutrality,  but  would  not  swear." 
Part  i.  37,  38. 

Hare-brained,  or  Hair  -  brained. 

Mad  as  a  March  hare,  giddy,  foolhardy. 

"Let's  leave  this  town  ;  for  they  [the  English] 
are  hair-brained  slaves. 
And  hunirer  will   enforce   them   to   be   more 
eager.'"  Shakestiettre  ;  1  Henry  1'/.,  i.  2. 

Harefoot.  Swift  of  foot  as  a  hare. 
The  surname  given  to  Harold  I., 
youngest  son  of  Canute  (1035-1010). 

I'o  kiss  the  hare's  Joot.  To  be  too  late 
for  anything,  to  be  a  day  after  the  fair. 
The  hare  has  gone  by,  and  left  its  foot- 
print for  you  to  salute.  A  similar 
phrase  is  To  kiss  the  post. 

Hare-lip.  A  cleft  lip ;  so  called  from 
its  resemblance  to  the  upper  lip  of  a  hare. 
It  was  said  to  be  the  mischievous  act  of 
an  elf  or  malicious  fairy. 

"This  is  the  foul  fiend  Flibbertigib1)et.  He 
liegins  at  curfew,  and  walks  till  the  first  cock. 
He  .  .  .  .  squints  the  eye  and  makes  thehare-lip." 
—Shakespeare :  King  Lear,  iii.  4. 

Hare-stone  =  Hour-stone.  Bound- 
ary stone  in  the  parish  of  Sancred  (Corn- 
wall), with  a  heap  of  stones  round  it.  It 
is  thought  that  these  stones  were  set  up 
for  a  similar  purpose  as  the  column  set  up 
by  Laban  (Genesis  sxxi.  HI,  52).  "  Be- 
hold this  heap,  and  behold  this  pillar," 
said  Laban  to  Jacob,  "  which  I  luive  cast 
betwixt  me  and  thee.  This  heap  be 
witness,  and  this  pillar  be  witness,  that 
I  will  not  pass  over  this  heap  to  thee, 
and  that  thou  shalt  not  pass  over  this 
heap  unto  me,  for  harm."  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  hora,  or  hone  stan.)  {See 
Harold's  Stones.) 

Hare  and  the  Tortoise  {The). 
Everyone  knows  the  fable  of  the  race 
between  the  hare  and  the  tortoise,  won 
by  the  latter  ;  and  the  moral,  "  Slow  au4 


Hares 


582 


Harness 


steady  wins    the    race."      The  French 
eqnivalent  is  "  Tas  a  pas  le  ha-uf  prend 
Ic  licvre.'" 
Hares    shift    their    Sex.     It  was 

once  thought  that  hares  are  sexless,  or 
that  they  change  their  sex  every  year. 

"Leiiores  oiiincs  utrumquo  seium  li!il>cnt." 
Miin-'lenis. 
"  Snakes  tbnt  cast  tbeir  coats  fur  ir'W, 
Caiiielediis  that  alter  hue 
Hari'S  that  .vcarl.v  sexes  cliango." 

Fi(itch(?r  :  Faithful  tiliephci-d,  iii.  1. 

Har'icot  Mutton.  A  ragoilt  made 
witli  hashed  mutton  and  turnips.  In  oUl 
French  harigot,  harllgot,  and  hulif/oic  are 
found  meaning  a  "  morsel,"  a  "piece." 

"  Et  li  chevalier  tuit  iiionte, 
Dctaillie  et  ilehaliprote." 

t'liaiircnci :  Les  7'uurnois,  \\  ViS. 

Harikiri.  [ILippi/  despatch.']  A 
method  of  enforcing  suicide  by  disem- 
bowelling among  Japanese  officials  when 
government  considered  them  worthy  of 
death. 

Hark  Back  {To).  To  return  to  the 
subject.  ^^  Itvreiions  a  iins  iiioHtoiis^' 
(7.!.).  A  call  to  the  dogs  in  fox-hunt- 
ing, when  they  have  overrun  the  scent, 
"  Hark  [dogs]  come  back  "  ;  so  "  Hark 
for'ards  !  "  "  Hark  away !  "  etc. 

Harlequin  means  a  species  of  drama 
in  two  parts,  the  introduction  and  the 
harlequinade,  acted  in  dumb  show.  The 
prototype  is  the  Eoman  atcUducv,  but  our 
Christmas  pantomime  or  harlequinade  is 
essentially  a  British  entertainment,  first 
introduced  by  Mr.  Weaver,  a  dancing- 
master  of  Slirewsbury,  in  1702.  {^ee 
below.) 

■'  Wliat  Mnnms  was  of  old  to  ,Tove, 

The  same  a  liarleniiin  is  now. 

The  fiirnier  was  buffoon  above. 

The  latter  is  a  Puurb  below." 

S:nft :  The  Piiipct  Show. 

V  The  Roman  mime  did  not  at  all 
correspond  with  our  harlequinade.  The 
Roman  mimus  is  described  as  having 
a  shorn  head,  a  sooty  face,  flat  unshotl 
feet,  and  a  patched  parti-coloured  cloak. 

Harlequin,  in  the  British  pantomime, 
is  a  sprite  supposed  to  be  invisible  to  all 
eyes  but  those  of  liis  faithful  Columbine. 
His  office  is  to  dance  through  the  world 
and  frustrate  all  the  knavish  tricks  of 
the  Clown,  who  is  supposed  to  be  in  love 
with  Columbine.  In  Armoric,  ILarlequin 
means  "a  juggler,"  and  Harlequin 
metamorphoses  everything  he  touches 
with  his  magic  wand. 

V  The  prince  of  Harlequins  was  John 
Rich  (16S1-17G1). 

Harlequin.  So  Charles  Quint  was 
called  by  Francjois  I.  of  France. 

Harlot  is  said  to  be  derived  from 
Harlotta,   the  mother   of  William  the 


Conqueror,  but  it  is  more  likely  to  be  a 
corruption  of  horlct  (a  little  hireling), 
"  hore  "  being  the  past  participle  of 
hyran  (to  hire).  It  was  once  apitlied  to 
males  as  well  as  females.  Hence  Chaucer 
sjDeaks  of  "  a  sturdy  harlot  ....  that 
was  her  hostes  man."  The  word  far  let 
is  another  form  of  it. 

'■  Ho  was  gentil  Iiarlnt,  and  a  kindc  ; 
A  bettre  felaw  sbulcle  man  no  wlicr  flnile." 
Chuuccr :  CanWrhKru  Tiilcn,  jirol.  iMii. 
"  The  harlot  king  is  quite  beyond  mine  arm." 
aiiul'e^licare :  AVintcr's  Talc,  ii.  3. 

V  Proverbial  names  for  a  harlot  are 
Aholibah  and  Aholah  (Ezck.  xxiii.  4), 
probably  symljolic  characters  :  Petrowna 
(of  Russia),  and  Messaliua  (of  Rome). 

Harlowc  (Clarissa).  The  heroine  of 
Richardson's  novel  of  that  name.  In 
order  to  avoid  a  marriage  urged  upon 
her  by  her  parents,  she  casts  herself  on 
the  protection  of  a  lover,  who  grossly 
abuses  the  contidence  thus  reposed  in 
him.  He  subsequently  iivmj)o.s(s  tomany 
her,  but  Clarissa  rejocts  tin,'  oH'er,  and 
retires  from  the  world  to  cover  her  shame 
and  die. 

Harm.  Harm  set,  harm  get.  Those 
who  lay  tra]>s  for  others  get  caught 
themselves.  Haman  was  hanged  on  his 
own  gallows.  Our  Lord  says,  "  They 
that  take  the  sword  shall  perish  with  the 
sword"  (Matt.  xxvi.  52). 

Harmless  as  a  Dove.  (Matt.  x.  16.) 

Harmo'nia's  Necklace.  An  unlucky 
possession,  something  that  brings  evil  to 
all  who  possess  it.  Harmonia  was  the 
daughter  of  Mars  and  Venus.  On  the 
da  J'  of  her  marriage  with  King  Cadmos, 
she  received  a  necklace  which  proved 
fatal  to  all  who  possessed  it. 

V  The  collar  given  bj'  AlphesibSa  (or 
Arsiuoe)  to  her  husband  Alcmieon  was  a 
like  fatal  gift.  So  were  the  collar  and 
veil  of  Eriphyl5,wifeof  ArapliiavS,os,  and 
the  Trojan  horse.     {See  Fatal  Gifts.) 

Harmo'nia's  Robe.  On  the  mar- 
riage of  Harmonia,  Yidcan,  to  avenge 
the  infidelity  of  her  mother,  made  the 
bride  a  present  of  a  robe  dyed  in  all  sorts 
of  crimes,  which  infused  wickedness  and 
imi^iety  into  all  her  offsiiring.  Both 
Harmonia  and  Cadmos,  after  having 
suffered  many  misfoi  times,  and  seen 
their  children  a  sorrow  to  them,  were 
changed  into  serpents.  {I'aiisaiiias,  [), 
10.)     (.SVy'Nessus.) 

V  Medea,  in  a  fit  of  jealousy,  sent 
Creiisa  a  wedding  robe,  which  burnt  her 
to   death.       {Euripides  :    Medea.) 

Harness.  To  die  in  liarness.  To 
continue  in  one's  work  or  occupation  till 


Harness  Cask 


>83 


Harpocrates 


death.      The  allusion  is  to   soldiers  iu 

armour  or  harnsss. 

"At  least  we'll  d;o  with  barnoss  on  our  back." 
ShaJcfspeare :  MarbetU,  v.  5. 

Harness  Cask.  A  large  cask  or  tub 
with  a  rim  cover,  containing  a  supply  of 
salt  meat  for  immediate  use.  Nautical 
term. 

Harness  Prize  (University  of  Cam- 
liridge),  founded  by  the  Rev.  William 
Harness  for  the  best  essay  connected 
with  Shakespearian  literature.  Awarded 
every  third  year. 

Haro.  To  cnj  out  haro  to  atnjour. 
To  denoimce  his  misdeeds,  to  follow  liim 
with  hue  and  cry.  "  Ha  rou  "  was  tlie 
ancient  Norman  hue-and-cry,  and  the 
exclamation  made  by  those  who  wanted 
assistance,  theii'  person  or  property 
being  iu  danger.  It  is  similar  to  our  cry 
of  "Police!  "  Probably  our  halloo  is 
the  same  word. 

V  In  the  Channel  Isles,  Ila  !  ho  !  a 
Paidc,  moil  prince  !  is  a  protest  still  in 
vogue  when  one's  pi'opertyis  endangered, 
or  at  least  was  so  when  I  lived  in  Jersej^. 
It  is  supi>osed  to  be  an  appeal  to  Rollo, 
king  of  Normandy,  to  come  to  the  aid 
of  him  suffering  wrongfully. 

Harold   the    Dauntless.      Sou   of 

Witikiud,  tlie  Dane.  "He  was  rocked 
on  a  buckler,  and  fed  from  a  blade." 
He  became  a  Christian,  like  his  father, 
and  married  Eivir,  a  Danish  maid,  who 
had  been  his  page.  {Sir  If.  Scott : 
Ilarohi  the  Dauntless.) 

Harold's  Stones  at  Trelech  (Mon- 
mouthshire). Three  stones,  one  of  which 
is  fourteen  feet  above  the  ground,  evi- 
dently no  part  of  a  circle.  Probably 
boundary  stones.     {See  Haee-stone.) 

Haroot  and  Maroot.  Two  angels 
who,  in  consequence  of  their  want  of 
compassion  to  man,  are  susceptible  of 
human  passions,  and  are  sent  upon  earth 
to  be  tempted.  They  were  at  one  time 
kings  of  Babel,  and  are  still  the  teachers 
of  magic  and  the  black  arts. 

Haronn  al  Raschid.  Calif  of  the 
East,  of  the  Abbasside  race.  (765-809.) 
His  adventures  form  a  part  of  the 
Arabian  Nights^  Entertainments. 

'  Harp.  The  arms  of  Ireland.  Ac- 
cording to  tradition,  one  of  tlie  early 
kings  of  Ireland  was  named  David,  and 
this  king  took  for  arms  the  harp  of 
Israel's  sweet  Psalmist.  Probably  the 
harp  is  altogether  a  blunder,  arising 
from  the  triangle  invented  in  the  reign 
of  .John  to  distinguish  his  Irish  coins 
trouj   the  Eughsh.     The  reason  why  a 


triangle  was  chosen  may  have  been  iu 
allusion  to  St.  Patrick's  explanation  of 
the  Trinity,  or  more  likely  to  siguify  that 
he  was  king  of  England,  Ireland,  and 
France.  Henry  VIII.  was  tlie  first  to 
assume  the  harp  positive  as  the  Irish 
device,  and  James  I.  to  place  it  in  the 
third  quarter  of  the  royal  achievement 
of  Great  Britain. 

To  harp  for  ever  on  the  same  string. 
To  be  for  ever  teasing  one  about  the 
same  subject.  There  is  a  Latin  proverb, 
liandeni  cantilenam  recinSre.  I  once 
heard  a  man  with  a  clarionet  play  the 
first  half  of  "In  my  cottage  near  a 
wood"  for  more  than  an  hour,  without 
cessation  or  change.  It  was  in  a  crowded 
market-place,  and  the  annoyance  became 
at  last  so  unbearable  that  he  collected  a 
rich  harvest  to  move  on. 

"Still  liarpiug  on  my  &.iU!ihtcr."—Shakcspearc  : 
Hamlet,  ii.  I. 

Har'pagon  (A).  A  miser.  Harpa- 
gon  is  the  name  of  the  miser  in  Molicre's 
comedy  called  UAvare. 

Harpal'ice  (1  syl.).  A  Thracian 
virago,  who  liberated  licr  i'atlier  Har- 
pal'icos  when  he  was  taken  prisoner  by 
the  Getaj. 

"With  such  array  Ilarpalice  bestrode 
Her  Thraciau  courser."  Drydeii. 

Harps  (2  syl.).  The  cutlass  with 
which  Mercury  killed  Argus ;  and  with 
which  Perseus  subsequently  cut  off  the 
head  of  Medusa. 

Harpies  (2  syl.).  Vultures  with  the 
head  and  breasts  of  a  woman,  very  fierce 
and  loathsome,  living  in  an  atmosphere 
of  filth  and  stench,  and  contaminatuig 
everything  which  they  came  near.  Homer 
mentions  but  one  harpy.  He'siod  gives 
two,  and  later  writers  three.  The  names 
indicate  that  these  monsters  were  per- 
sonifications of  whirlwinds  and  storms. 
Their  names  were  Ocyp'eta  {reipid), 
Cele'no  {blackness),  and  AeH'o  {storm). 
(Greek  harpinai,  verb  harpdzo,  to  seize; 
Latin  harpgia.  See  Virgil :  ^lineid,  iii. 
219,  etc.). 

He  is  a  regular  harpn.  One  who  wants 
to  appropriate  everything ;  one  who 
sponges  on  another  without  mercy. 

"  I    will   ....  do   you  any   embassage  .  .  . 
rathc^r  tliaii  hold  three  words  coiiferenee  with 
this    harpy."  —  Shiikcspeare  :    Much   .ido   About 
Xutliivfi,  ii.  1. 

Harpoc'rates  (4  syl).  The  Greek 
form  of  the  Egyptian  god  Har-pi-kruti 
{Horns  the  Child),  made  by  the  Greeks 
and  Romans  the  god  of  silence.  This 
arose  from  a  pure  misapprehension.  It 
is  an  Egyptian  god,  and  was  represented 
with    its   "finger    on    its    mouth,"    to 


Harridan 


584 


Harvest    Goose 


indicate  youth,  but  the  Greeks  thought 
it  was  a  symbol  of  siknce. 

"  I  assured  niv  mistress  she  might  make  herself 
iwrfectly  easy  on  that  score  [his  mentioning  a 
certain  ii'atter  to  anyone],  for  I  was  tlie  Harpo- 
crates  of  trusty  valets."— Gii  Bias,  iv.  3  (171J). 

Har'ridan.    A  haggard  old  beldame. 

So  called  from  tlie  French  haridellfi,  a 
worn-out  jade  of  a  horse. 

Har'rier  (3  syl.).  A  dog  for  hare- 
liunting,  whence  the  name. 

Harrington.    A  farthiug.     So  called 
f  rum  Lord  Harrington,  to  whom  James  I. 
granted  a  i^atent   for   making   them  of 
brass.     Drunken  Barnaby  says — 
"  Thence  to  Harrington  bo  it  spoken, 
For  name-sake  I  gave  a  token 
To  a  beggar  tliat  did  crave  it." 

Drunken  Barnaby's  Journal. 
"  I  will  not  l)ate  a  Harrington  of  the  sum." 
Ulii  Jvntfou:  The  Devil  is  an  Ass,  ii.  1. 

Harris.  3li-s.  Harris.  An  hypo- 
thetical lady,  to  whom  Sarah  Gamp 
referred  for  the  corroboration  of  all  her 
statements,  and  the  bank  on  which  she 
might  draw  to  any  extent  for  self-praise. 
(Dickens :  Martin  Cliuzzlewit.)  {See 
Beooks  of  Sheffield.) 

"Not  Mrs.  Harris  in  the  immortal  narrative  was 
more  (pioted  and  more  mythical."— iord  Lytton. 

Harry  ( To)  =  to  harass.  Facetiously 
said  to  be  derived  from  Harry  VIII.  of 
England,  who  no  doubt  played  up  old 
Harry  with  church  property.  Of  course, 
the  real  derivation  is  the  Anglo-Saxon 
Jicriaii,  to  plunder,  from  hcvre  (2  syl.), 
an  army. 

Harry.  Old  Harry.  Old  Scratch. 
To  harry  (Saxon)  is  to,  tear  in  pieces, 
whence  our  harrow.  There  is  an  ancient 
pamphlet  entitled  The  Harrowing  of 
Hell.  I  do  not  think  it  is  a  corruption 
of  "Old  Hairy,"  although  the  Hebrew 
Sciri/ii  (liairy  ones)  is  translated  devils 
in  Lev.  xvii.  7,  and  no  doubt  alludes  to 
the  he-goat,  an  object  of  worship  with 
the  Egyptians.  Moses  says  the  children 
of  Israel  are  no  longer  to  sacrifice  to 
devils  {s/'iriiii),  as  they  did  in  Egypt. 
There  is  a  Scandinavian  Hari  =  Baal  or 
Bel. 

Harry  Soph.  A  student  at  Cam- 
bridge wlio  lias  ''  declared  "  for  Law  or 
Physic,  and  wears  a  full-sleeve  gown. 
The  word  is  a  corruption  of  the  Greek 
Hcri-sophos  (more  than  a  Sojjh  or  com- 
mon second-year  student).  {Cambridge 
Calendar. ) 

The  tale  goes  that  at  the  destruction 
of  the  monasteries,  in  the  reign  of  Henry 
VIII.,  certain  students  waited  to  see 
how  matters  would  turn  out  befoi-e  they 
committed  themselves  by  taking  a  clerical 


degree,  and  that  these  men  were  thence 
called  Sophistcc  Henriciani,  or  "Henry 
Sophisters." 

Hart.  In  Christian  art,  the  emblem 
of  solitude  and  jnirity  of  life.  It  was  the 
attribute  of  St.  Hubert,  St.  Julian,  and 
St.  Eustace.  It  was  also  the  type  of  piety 
and  religious  aspiration.  (Psalm  xlii.  1.) 
[See  Hind.) 

The  irhite  Hart,  or  hind,  with  a  golden 
chain,  in  public-house  signs,  is  the  badge 
of  liichard  II.,  which  was  worn  by  all  his 
courtiers  and  adherents.  It  was  adopted 
from  his  mother,  whose  cognisance  was 
a  white  hind. 

Hart  Royal.  A  male  red  deer,  when 
the  crown  of  the  antler  has  made  its 
appearance,  and  the  creature  has  been 
hunted  by  a  king. 

Hart  of  Grease  (A).  A  hunter's 
phrase  for  a  fat  venison  ;  a  stag  full  of 
the  pasture,  called  by  Jaques  "  a  fat 
and  greasy  citizen."  {As  Fon  Like  It, 
i.  1.)     {See  Heaet  of  Geace.) 

"  It  is  a  hart  of  grease,  too,  in  full  season,  with 
three  inches  of  fat  on  the  brisket.'— i'ir  ir.  ticott: 
'Ihc.  Monastery,  chap.  xvii. 

Harts.  There  are  four  liarts  in  the 
tree  Yggdrasil',  an  eagle  and  a  squirrel ; 
and  a  serpent  gnaws  its  root. 

Hartnet.  The  daughter  of  Kukenaw 
(the  ape's  wife)  in  the  tale  of  Rei/nard  the 
Fox.  The  word  in  old  Geraian  means 
hard  or  strong  strife. 

Harum  Scarum.  A  hare-brained 
person  who  scares  quiet  folk.  Some 
derive  it  from  the  French  clamcar  de 
Haro  (hue  and  cry),  as  if  the  madcap 
was  one  against  whom  the  hue-and-cry 
is  raised ;  but  jjrobably  it  is  simply  a 
jingle  word  having  allusion  to  the 
"madness  of  a  March  hare,^^  and  the 
"scaring"  of  honest  folks  from  their 
proprieties. 

"  Willi's  there  ?    I  spose  young  harum-scarum." 
Ctunbridyc  Fucetite  :  CuUcjiun  iind  Dorter. 

Haruspex  (pi.  harus'pices).  Persons 
who  interpreted  the  will  of  the  gods  by 
inspecting  the  entrails  of  animals  offered 
in  sacrifice  (old  Latin,  haru'r/a,  a  victim  ; 
specio,  I  inspect).  Cato  said,  "  I  wonder 
how  one  harusjiex  can  keep  from  laugh- 
ing when  he  sees  another." 

Harvard  College,  in  the  United 
States,  endowed  by  the  Rev.  John 
Harvard  in  1639.    Foimded  1636. 

Harvest  Goose.  A  corruption  of 
Arvyst    Gos    (a    stubble    goose).       {Sec 

WaYZ- GOOSE.) 

"  A  young  wife  and  an  arvyst  gos, 
Moche  gagil  [clatter]  with  both." 

Kelivuice  AntiqucB,  ii.  U3. 


Harvest  Moon 


Hat 


Harvest  Moon.  The  full  moou 
nearest  the  aiitiuniial  equinox.  The 
peculiarity  of  this  moon  is  that  it  rises 
for  several  days  nearly  at  sunset,  and 
about  the  same  time. 

Hasli  (A).  A.  mess,  a  muddle:  as, 
"a  pretty  hash  he  made  of  it."  A  hash 
is  a  mess,  and  a  mess  is  a  muddle. 

I'/l  soon  settle  /lis  hash  for  him.  I 
will  soon  smash  him  up  ;  ruin  his 
schemes  ;  "  give  him  his  gruel  "  ;  '•  cook 
his  goose  "  ;  •'  put  my  finger  in  his  pie  "  ; 
"make  mince  -  meat  of  him."  (Sec 
Cooking.) 

Hassan.  Calii)h  of  the  Ottoman 
eni})ire  ;  noted  for  liis  hosijitality  and 
splendour.  His  palace  was  daily  thronged 
with  guests,  and  in  his  seraglio  was  a 
beautiful  young  slava  jiamed  Leila  (2 
syl.),  who  had  formed  an  unfortunate 
attachment  to  a  Christian  called  the 
Giao'ur.  Leila  is  put  to  death  by  an 
emir,  and  Hassan  is  slain  by  the  Giaour 
near  Mount  Parnassus.  {Bi/ron  :  The 
Giaour.) 

Al  Hassan.  The  Arabian  emir'  of 
Persia,  father  of  Hinda,  in  Moore's  Fire- 
TCorshippcrs.  He  was  victorious  at  the 
battle  of  Cadessia,  and  thus  became 
master  of  Persia. 

Hassan-Ben-Sabah.    The  Old  Man 

of  the  Mountain,  founder  of  the  sect  of 
the  Assassins.  lu  Ryiner's  Fcedera  are 
two  letters  by  this  sheik. 

Hassock.  A  doss  or  footstool  made 
of  hcsi/  (sedge  or  rushes). 

"Hassocks  shoiilil  lie  gotten  in  tlio  fens,  ami 
laid  at  tbo  foot  of  tliosaid  liank  ....  wboro  need 
Te(iu\m\."—I)H(jdale:  ImOaiilcitKj,  p.  aT2. 
"The  knees  and  liassoclcs  are  well-niKh  divorced." 
Coirpcr. 

Hat.  How  Lord  Kingsalo  acquired 
the  riglit  of  wearing  his  hat  in  the  royal 
presence  is  this :  King  John  and  Philippe 
II.  of  France  agreed  to  settle  a  dispute 
respecting  the  duchy  of  Normandy  by 
single  combat.  John  de  Courcy,  Earl  of 
Ulster,' was  the  English  champion,  and 
no  sooner  put  in  his  appearance  than  the 
French  champion  put  spurs  to  his  horse 
and  fled.  The  king  asked  the  earl  what 
reward  should  be  given  him,  and  he 
replied,  "  Titles  and  lands  I  want  not,  of 
these  I  have  enough ;  but  in  remembrance 
of  this  day  I  beg  the  boon,  for  myself  and 
successors,  to  remain  covered  in  the 
presence  of  your  highness  and  all  future 
sovereigns  of  the  realm." 

Lord  Forester,  it  is  said,  possessed  the 
same  right,  which  was  confirmed  by 
Henry  VIII. 


V  The  Somerset  Herald  wholly  denies 
the  right  in  regard  to  Lord  Kingsale ; 
and  probably  that  of  Lord  Forester 
is  without  foundation.  (See  Notes  and 
Qwries,  Dec.  I9th,  1885,  p.  504.) 

On  the  other  hand,  the  privilege  seems 
at  one  lime  to  have  been  not  unusual, 
for  Motley  informs  us  that  "all  the 
Spanish  grandees  had  the  privilege  of 
being  covered  in  the  presence  of  the 
reigning  monarch.  Hence,  when  the 
Duke  of  Alva  presented  himself  before 
Margaret,  Duchess  of  Parma,  she  bade 
him  to  be  covered."     {Duteh  liepiiblic.) 

A  cockle  hat.  A  pilgrim's  hat.  So 
called  from  the  custom  of  putting  cockle- 
shells upon  tlieir  hats,  to  indicate  their 
intention  or  performance  of  a  pilgrimage. 

"  IIow  should  T  your  true  love  know 
Froiri  another  one? 
B.v  his  cockle-hat  and  staff, 
And  bis  sandal  shoon." 

Shdkespcare :  Hamlet,  'w.  5. 

A  Beown  Hat.  Xevcr  iccar  a  brown 
hat  in  Friesland.  When  at  Eome  do  as 
Rome  does.  If  people  have  a  very 
strong  prejudice,  do  not  run  counter 
to  it.  Friesland  is  a  province  of  the 
Netherlands,  where  the  inhabitants  cut 
their  hair  short,  and  cover  the  head 
first  with  a  knitted  cap,  then  a  high  silk 
skull-cap,  then  a  metal  turban,  and 
lastly  a  huge  flaunting  bonnet.  Four 
or  five  dresses  always  constitute  the 
ordinary  head  gear.  A.  traveller  once 
passed  through  the  province  with  a 
common  brown  chimney-hat  or  wide-' 
awake,  but  was  hustled  by  the  work- 
men, jeered  at  by  the  women,  pelted  by 
the  boys,  and  sneered  at  by  the  magnates 
as  a  regular  guy.  If  you  woidd  pass 
quietly  through  this  "enlightened" 
province  never  wear  there  a  brown  hat. 

A  Steeple-ceowned  Hat.  Yon  are 
onhj  Jit  to  wear  a  steepte-croirned  hat. 
To  be  biu'nt  as  a.  heretic.  The  victims 
of  the  Autos-da-Fe  of  the  "  Holy  "  In- 
quisition were  always  decorated  with 
such  a  head-gear. 

A  ichite  hat.     A  white  hat  used  to  be 
emblematical  of  radical  proclivities,  be-  ' 
cause   Orator  Hunt,   the    great    dema- 
gogue,   used    to    wear   one  during   the 
Wellington  and  Peel  administration. 

H  The   street  arabs    of  Nottingham-  . 
shire  used  to  accost  a  person  wearing  a 
white  hat  with  the  question,  "  Who  stole 
the  donkey?  "  and  a  companion  used  to 
answer,  "  Him  wi'  the  white  hat  on." 

Fass  round  the  hat.  Gather  subscrip- 
tions into  a  hat. 

To  cat  one\s  hat.  "  Hattes  are  made 
of  eggs,  veal,  dates,  saffron,  salt,  and  so 
forth."  {liobijia  Napier :  Hoke  of  Cookri/,^ 


Hat   Money 


586 


Hatto 


V  The  Scotch  have  the  ■word  hattit- 
lit  or  hattcd-kit,  a  dish  made  chiefly  of 
sour  cream,  new  milk,  or  butter-milk. 

To  hang  up  one's  hat  in  a  hoiofe.  To 
make  oneself  at  home ;  to  become 
master  of  a  house.  Visitors,  making  a 
cull,  carry  their  hats  iu  their  hands. 

Hat  Money.  A  small  gratuity  given 
to  the  master  of  a  ship,  by  passengers,  for 
liis  care  and  trouble,  originally  collected 
iu  a  hat  at  the  end  of  a  good  voyage. 

Hats  and.  Caps.  Two  political  fac- 
tions of  Sweden  in  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, the  former  favourable  to  France, 
and  the  latter  to  Russia.  Carlyle  says 
the  latter  were  called  caps,  meaning 
night -caps,  because  they  were  averse  to 
action  and  war  ;  but  the  fact  is  that  the 
French  partisans  wore  a  French  chapeau 
as  their  badge,  and  the  Russian  partisans 
wore  a  Russian  cap. 

Hatches.  Tut  on  the  hatches. 
Figuratively,  shut  the  door.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  h(rc,  a  gate.  Compare  haca,  a 
bar  or  bolt. ) 

Under  hatches.  Dead  and  buried. 
The  hatches  of  a  ship  are  the  coverings 
over  tlie  hatchways  (or  openings  iu  the 
deck  of  a  vessel)  to  allow  of  cargo,  etc. , 
being  easily  discharged. 

'"Ami  tlioiicrli  liis  siiul  lias  prone  aloft, 
His  body's  under  hatches." 

Hatchet.  [Greek  a. vine,  Latin  aseia, 
Italian  acectta,  French  hachette,  our 
hatchet  and  axe.) 

To  bury  the  hatchet.  {See  Bttry.) 
To  throw  the  hatchet.  To  tell  false- 
hoods. In  allusion  to  an  ancient  game 
where  hatchets  were  thrown  at  a  mark, 
like  quoits.  It  means  the  same  as  draw- 
ing the  long-bow  {q.r.). 

Hatchway  {Lieutenant  Jack).  A  re- 
tired naval  officer,  Ihe  companion  of 
Commodore  Trunnion,  iu  Smollett's 
Feregrine  Fickle. 

Hatef  [the  cleadli/].  One  of  Ma- 
homet's swords,  confiscated  from  the 
Jews    when    they    were    exiled    from 

Medi'ua.     {See  Swoeds.) 

Hat'temists.  An  ecclesiastical  sect 
in  Holland ;  so  called  from  Pontin  von 
Hattem.  of  Zealand  (seventeenth  cen- 
tury). They  denied  the  expiatory  sac- 
rifice of  Christ,  and  the  corrujition  of 
human  nature. 

Hatteraick  (Dirk).  Also  called  "Jans 
Jjiiison.''  A  Dutch  smuggler  imprisoned 
with  lawyer  Glossin  for  kidnapping 
Henry    Bertrand.      During    the    night 


Glossin  contrived  to  enter  the  smuggler's 
cell,  when  a  quarrel  ensued.  Hat- 
teraick strangled  Glossin,  and  then 
hanged  himself.  {Sir  Walter  Scott  : 
Gtnj  Mannering.) 

Hatto.  Archbishop  of  Mainz,  ac- 
cording to  tradition,  was  devoured  by 
mice.  The  story  says  that  in  970  there 
was  a  great  famine  in  Gennany,  and 
Hatto,  that  there  might  be  better  store 
for  the  rich,  assembled  the  poor  in  a 
bam,  and  burnt  them  to  death,  saying, 
"They  are  like  mice,  only  good  to 
devour  the  com."  By  and  by  an  army 
of  mice  came  against  the  archbishop,  and 
the  abbot,  to  escape  the  plague,  removed 
to  a  tower  on  the  Rhine,  but  hither 
came  the  mouse-army  bj'  hundreds  and 
thousands,  and  ate  the  bishop  up.  The 
tower  is  still  called  Mouse  -  tower. 
Southey  has  a  ballad  on  the  subject,  but 
makes  the  invaders  an  army  of  rats. 
{See  Mouse  Tower  ;  Pied  Pipee.) 

"And  in  at  the  windnns.  and  in  at  the  door, 
And  through  the  walls  liy  thous;inds  they  loiir, 
And  down  through  the  ceiling,  and  up  through 

the  floor, 
From  tlie  right  and  the  left,  from  behind  and 

t^efore. 
From   within  and  without,  from  above  and 

helow. 
And  all  at  once  to  the  hishop  they  go. 
They    have    wetted   their   teeth   against   the 

stones. 
And  now  they  are  picking  the  hishop'g  hones  ; 
Tl  ey  gnawed  the  flesh  from  eicry  limb. 
Ft;r  they  were  sent  to  do  judgment  on  him." 
Southey :  ISifliup  llotto. 

A  very  similar  legend  is  told  of  Count 
Graaf,  a  wicked  and  powerful  chief,  who 
raised  a  tower  in  the  midst  of  the  Rhine 
for  the  purpose  of  exacting  tolls.  If 
any  boat  or  barge  attempted  to  evade 
the  exaction,  the  warders  of  the  tower 
shot  the  crew  with  cross-bows.  Amongst 
other  ways  of  making  himself  rich  was 
buying  up  com.  One  year  a  sad  famine 
prevailed,  and  the  count  made  a  harvest 
of  the  distress ;  but  an  army  of  rats, 
pressed  by  hunger,  invaded  his  tower, 
and  falling  on  the  old  baron,  worried 
him  to  death,  and  then  devoured  him. 
{Legends  of  the  LiJiinc.) 

Wideroif,  bishop  of  Strasburg  (in  997), 
was  devoured  by  mice  in  the  seventeenth 
year  of  his  episcopate,  because  he  sup- 
pressed the  convent  of  Seltzen,  en  the 
Rhine. 

Bishop  Adolf  of  Cologne  was  devoured 
by  mice  or  rats  in  1112. 

Frei  herr  von  Giittengen  collected  the 
poor  in  a  great  bam,  and  burnt  them  to 
death  ;  and  being  invaded  by  rats  and 
mice,  ran  to  his  castle  of  Giittingen. 
The  vermin,  however,  pursued  him  and 
ate  him  clean  to  the  bones,  after  A\hich 


Hatton 


587 


Haversack 


his  castle  sank  to  the  bottom  of  the  lake, 
"  where  it  may  still  be  seen." 

A  similar  tale  is  recorded  in  the 
chronicles  of  William  of  Mulsburg, 
book  ii.  p.  313  (Bone's  edition). 

*.*  Mice  or  rats.  Giraldus  Cambrensis 
says :  The  larger  sort  of  mice  are  called 
rati.  {Ilincranj,  book  xi.  2.)  On  the 
other  hand,  many  rats  are  called  mice, 
as  inustela  Alplna,  the  mus  IiuIicuk,  the 
mils  (iqiicttlciis,  the  mus  I'harao/iis,  etc. 

Hatton.  The  dancing  chancellor.  Sir 
Christopher  Hatton  was  brought  up  to 
the  law,  but  became  a  courtier,  and  at- 
tracted the  attention  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
by  his  very  graceful  dancing  at  a 
masque.  The  queen  took  him  into 
favour,  and  soon  made  him  both  chan- 
cellor and  knight  of  the  garter.  (He 
died  in  lo'Jl.) 

"  His  hiishy  licard,  ami  shoeslriii.^s  ereon, 
His  liis'li-cnnvned  bat  and  satin  iloulik't, 
Moved  tlie  stout  heart  "f  Englanu's  queen, 
Tlidui-'U  Puie  and  Spauiai'ii  cuuld  uot  ti-oulilc 
it.^'  Gmij. 

Hatton  Garden  (London).  The 
residence  of  Sir  Christopher  Hatton,  the 
dancing  chancellor.     {tScc  above.) 

Haul  over  the  Coals.  Take  to  task. 
Jamieson  thinks  it  refers  to  the  ordeal 
by  lire,  a  suggestion  which  is  favoured 
by  the  French  corresponding  phrase, 
mettrc  snr  la  scllctte  (to  put  on  the 
culprit's  stool). 

Hauss'manniza'tion.  The  pulling 
down  and  building  up  anew  of  streets 
and  cities,  as  Baron  Haussmaun  re- 
modelled Paris.  In  1868  he  had  saddled 
Paris  with  a  debt  of  about  twenty-eight 
jiiillions. 

Hautboy  (pron.  Ho' -boy).  A  straw- 
berry ;  so  called  either  from  the  haiit 
l)ois  (high  woods)  of  Bohemia  whence  it 
was  imported,  or  from  its  haiit-bois 
(long-stalk).  The  latter  is  the  more 
probable,  and  furnislies  the  etymology 
of  the  musical  instrument  also,  which 
has  a  long  moiitli-rccd. 

Haute  Claire.  The  sword  of  Oliver 
the  Dane.     (.Sir  Swoed.) 

Hautville  Coit,  at  Stanton  Drew,  in 
the  manor  of  Keynsham.  The  tradition 
is  that  this  coit  was  thrown  there  bj'  the 
champion  giant,  Sir  John  Hautville, 
from  Mary's  Knolle  Hill,  about  a  mile 
off,  the  jilace  of  liis  abode.  The  stone 
on  the  top  of  the  hill,  once  thirty  tons' 
weight,  is  said  to  have  been  the  clearing 
of  the  giant's  spade. 

V  The  same  is  said  of  the  Gog'magog 
of  Cambridge.    ■ 


Have  a  Care!  ^^ Freucs  garde !^^ 
Shakespeare  has  the  expression  "Have 
mind  upon  your  health !  "  {Julius 
C'cesar,  iv.  3.) 

Have  a  Mind  for  it  ( To).  To  desire 
to  possess  it ;  to  wish  for  it.  Mind  = 
desire,  intention,  is  by  no  means  un- 
common :  "I  mind  to  tell  him  plainly 
what  I  think."  (2  llcnrg  VI.,  act  iv. 
1.)  "  I  shortly  mind  to  leave  you." 
(2  Henry  VI.,  act  iv.  1.) 

Have  at  You.    To  be  about  to  aim 
a  blow  at  anothei' ;  to  attack  another. 
"  Have  at  tlioe  with  a  duwnriglit  Mow." 

Have  it  Out  {To).  To  settle  the 
disjjute  by  blows  or  arguments. 

Hav'elok  (3  syl.),  the  orphan  son  of 
Biikabegn,  King  of  Denmark,  was  ex- 
posed at  sea  through  the  treachery  of 
his  guardians,  and  the  raft  drifted  to  the 
coast  of  Lincolnshire.  Here  a  fisherman 
named  Grim  found  the  young  Prince, 
and  brought  him  up  as  his  own  son.  In 
time  it  so  happened  that  an  English 
princess  stood  in  the  way  of  certain  am- 
bitious nobles,  who  resolved  to  degrade 
her  by  uniting  her  to  a  peasant,  and 
selected  the  young  foundling  for  the 
purpose ;  but  Havelok,  having  learnt 
the  story  of  his  birth,  obtained  the  aid 
of  the  king  his  father  to  recover  his 
wife's  possessions,  and  became  in  due 
time  King  of  Denmark  and  part  of 
England.  {^'Hanioc  the  JJanc,^''  by  tite 
TroHvciirs.) 

Haver-Cakes.  Oaten  cakes  (Scan- 
dinavian, hdfrc  ;  German,  hafcr ;  Latin, 
ave/ia,  oats). 

Haveril  (3  syl.).  A  simpleton,  April- 
fool.  {YTench,poissond'Arril;  Icelandic,- 
gifr,  foohsh  talk ;  Scotch,  haver,  to  talk 
nonsense.) 

Ha\'ering  (Essex).  The  legend  says 
that  while  Edward  the  Confessor  was 
dwelling  in  this  locality,  an  old  pilgrim 
asked  alms,  and  the  king  replied,  "I 
have  no  money,  but  I  hare  a  ru/g,'"  and, 
drawing  it  from  his  fore-finger,  gave  it 
to  the  beggar.  Some  time  after,  certaui 
English  pilgrims  in  Jewry  met  the  same 
man,  who  drew  the  ring  from  liis  fiuger 
and  said,  "  Give  this  to  your  king,  and 
say  within  six  mouths  he  shall  die." 
The  request  was  complied  with,  and 
the  prediction  fulfilled.  The  shrine  of 
Edward  tlie  Confessor  in  Westminster 
Abbey  gives  colour  to  this  legend. 

Haversack.  Strictly  speaking  is  a  bag 
to  carry  oats  in.     (-SVe  Hayjsk-Cakes.) 


Havock 


588 


IIa"wkubites 


It  now  means  a  soldier's  ration-bag 
slung  from  the  shoulder ;  a  gunner's 
leather-case  for  carrying  charges. 

Havock.  A  military  cry  to  general 
massacre  without  quarter.  Tliis  cry  was 
forbidden  in  the  ninth  year  of  Richard  II. 
on  pain  of  death.  Probably  it  was  ori- 
ginally used  in  huntuig  wild  beasts,  such 
as  wolves,  lions,  etc.,  that  fell  on  sheep- 
folds,  and  Shakespeare  favours  this  sug- 
gestion in  his  JhUks  Ccrsfir,  where  he 
says  Ate  shall  "  cry  havock  !  and  let  slip 
the  dogs  of  war."  (Welsh,  Iiafof/,  de- 
vastation ;  Irish,  urvach  ;  compare 
Anglo-Saxon  havoc,  a  hawk.) 

Havre  (France).      A  contraction  of 

Le  havrc  de  noire  dame  dc  grace. 

Hawk. 

(1)  Ditfereut  parts  of  a  hawk  : 

Arms.    The  h'^'s  frmn  tlic  MiiKli  t<i  tlie  fcxit. 

lieiik.    The  ui'i.er  and  cro.iked  part  nf  the  hill. 

heams.    The  hiiii,'  leathers  uf  the  wiugB. 

Cliip.    The  nether  i«it  (jf  the  bill. 

Faither.i  Hummed.    i'eatUers  full  grown  and  ediii- 

I  lete. 
Feathers  iinsummed.   Feathei'S  not  yet  full  grown. 
J-lid./K.    The  next  to  the  longest  feathers  or  prin- 

ciiials. 
aiiit.    The  slimy  substance  In  the  i)a,nnel. 
(ivnje.    Tlie  crow  or  crop. 
Jlityliirs.    Tlie  spots  on  the  feathers. 
Mdils.    The  breast  feathers. 
A'urrs.     The  two  little  holes  on  the  top  of  the 

heak. 
ruinicl.    The  pipe  next  to  tlie  fundament. 
I'l'tKhiit  fiiilliers.    Those  behind  the  toes. 
I'cttu  siinjlrK.    The  toes. 
J'liioH'is.    The  claws. 
Irincii'dl  /(iilliers.    The  two  longest. 
,S'((i7.s.     The  wings. 

Si'(ir  or  .•.(')•(■.    The  yellow  part  under  the  eyes. 
Train.    The  tail. 

(2)  Diiferent  sorts  of  liawk  : 

an- falcon.    A  Terccll  of  a  (ierfalcon  is  for  a  king. 

Falrnii  miifl,'  ami  a  7V  iv.7  m  iitle.    For  a  prince. 

Falrnii  ,,/tlir  rork.     For  a,  duke. 

F4ilcnn  I'liiiiriiii:.     For  an  earl. 

J!(isti(i-(t  liairl:.     For  a  baron. 

Sdcri'  .aiMl  a  S((crit.    For  a  knight. 

I.(i:iair  ■M]i\  I.aiirfll.    For  a  Sipiire. 

Miiliiii.    For  a  lady. 

Iliibii.    For  a  young  man. 

(layiiaick.     For  a,  .^  eiHiian. 

'J'trri'l.     For  a  iMKir  man. 

Simreliaick.    F  or  a  priest. 

Miirkiitc.    For  a  holy-water  clerk. 

Ki.^tml.    For  a  knave  or  servant. 

Daine  Juliana  B((r)trs. 

The  "Sore-hawk"  is  a  hawk  of  the  first  year  ; 
so  called  from  the  French,  sur  or  saitre,  brownish- 
yellow. 

The  "Spar"  or  "Sparrow"  hawk  is  a  small, 
ignulile  hawk  (Saxon,  .'p'lnvi  ,•  (Jotli,  siiartca ;  our 
.111111  r,  siHir.  .■ijiar,  sii('tir..'<iiiie,  .ipi(rin(;,  sparse,  etc.; 
Latin,  f llamas;  all  referring  to  minuteness). 

(3)  The  dress  of  a  hawk : 

Dtirits.  The  leathers  with  bells,  buttoned  to  a 
hawk's  legs.  The  bell  itself  is  called  a  hawk- 
bell. 

Creanse.  A  packthread  or  thin  twine  fastened  to 
the  leash  in  disciplining  a  hawk. 

lluod.  A  cover  for  the  leid,  to  keep  the  hawk  in 
the  dark.  A  rafter  hood  is  a  wide  one,  open 
behind.  To  hood  is  to  put  on  the  hood.  To 
nnhood  is  to  take  it  off.  To  iiiixtriki-  the  hnod 
is  to  draw  the  strings  so  that  the  hood  may  be 
i>i  vetnliucss  to  be  pulled  off. 


Jesses.  The  little  straps  l)y  which  the  leash  la 
fastened  to  the  legs.  There  is  the  singular 
jess. 

Leash.    The  leather  thong  for  holdinir  t  he  hawk. 

(1)  Tcnns  used  iu  falconry : 

Castiiw-    Something  given  to  a  hawk  to  deanco 

her  gorge. 
Cairkiiiij.    Treading. 
CoiferiiKi.     Wlieii  young  hawks,  in  ol)edienco  to 

I  heir  ehleis,  (jniver  and  shake  their  wings. 
Craliliiiiii.    Fighling  with  e.ich  other  when   they 

stand  too  ni'ar. 
Jlnek.    The  place  where  a  hawk's  n-eat  is  laid. 
Iiiiphiq.     j'lacing  a  fe.il  her  in  a  hawk's  wing. 
Jake  or  lak.    The  breast  and  neck  of  a  bird  that  a 

hawk  preys  nn. 
hihrmeifniij.    The  lime  of  eli.-mging  the  coat. 
Lare.    A  llgnre   of   a   fo.\l   made  (jf   leather  aiul 

feathers. 
Make.  An  ohl  stauucli  hawk  that  sets  an  example 

to  young  ones. 
Mantlhui.    Stretching   first  one  win.g  and   then 

Iheothrr  over  the  legs. 
Meie.    The  iilaee  where  hawks  Bit  when  moulting. 
Mutir.g.    The  diing  of  hawks. 
J'el/itr  pill.    What  a  hawk  leaves  of  her  prey. 
Flit.    The  dead  body  of  a  fowl  killed  by  a  hawk. 
J'creh.    The  resting-place  of  a  hawk  when  cH  the 

falconer's  wrist. 
Flniiiaife.     Small  feathers  given  to  a  hawk   to 

make  her  nist.    ' 
Quarry.    The  fowl  or  game  that  a  hawk  flies  at. 
Jtaiii/le.    (bavel  given  to  a  hawk  to  bring  down 

her  stomach. 
Sharp  scl.    Hungry. 
Tiniii).    Giving  a  hawk  a  leg  (jr  wing  of  a  fowl  to 

pull  at. 

V  The  peregrine  when  full  grown  is 
called  a  bliie-hawl: 

The  hawk  was  the  av'atar  of  Ka  or 
Horus,  the  sini-god  of  the  Egj'ptians. 

lice  Birds  (protected  by  su2Jerstitions.) 

Hawk  and  Handsaw.  /  Joww  a 
haick  from  u  haiidmw.  Handsaw  is  a 
corruption  of  hcriishaw  (a  herou).  I 
know  a  hawk  from  a  heron,  the  bird  of 
prey  from  the  game  flown  at.  The 
proverb  means,  I  know  one  thing  from 
another.     (See  Hamlet,  ii.  2.) 

Hawk  nor  Buzzard  {Neither).  Of 
doubtful  social  jiosition— too  good  for 
the  kitchen,  and  not  good  enough  for 
the  family.  Private  governesses  and 
pauperisetl  gentlefolk  often  hold  this 
unhappy  position.  They  are  not  hawk^ 
to  be  fondled  and  petted — the  "  tasselled 
gentlemen"  of  the  days  of  falconry — 
nor  yet  buzzards—a  dull  kind  of  falcon 
synonymous  with  dunce  or  plebeian. 
In  French,  "  I\"'iHrc  ni  chair  ni  poissoh," 
"Neither  flesh,  fowl,  nor  good  red 
herring. ' ' 

Hawker's  News  or  "Piper's  News." 
News  known  to  all  the  world.  "  Ze 
secret  de  jxt/ichiiicl/e.''^  (German  liolcer, 
a  Ziiggler  or  hawker.) 

Hawkubites  (3  syl.).  Street  bullies 
in  the  reign  of  Queen  Anne.  It  was 
their  delight  to  molest  and  ill-treat  the 
old  watchmen,  women,  children,  and 
feeble  old  men  who  chanced  to  be  in 
the  streets  after  sunset,    The  succesgioft 


HaWse-hole 


589 


fiead 


of  these  Londou  pests  after  the  Restora- 
tion was  iu  the  following  order  :  The 
Muns,  the  Tityre  Tus,  the  Hectors,  the 
Scourers,  the  Nickers,  then  the  Hawku- 
bites  (1711-1714),  and  then  the  Mohocks 
^most  dreaded  of  all.  (Hawkubite  is 
the  name  of  an  Indian  tribe  of  savages.) 

"  Frnm  Mcilidck  aiui  from  Hawkubite, 

(iiiDil  Lipi'il  cU-livi-r  me 
Willi  w:iiiilrr  tlirnii^'h  the  streets  at  nigh 

('iiiiiinittiiii-'  rniclty. 
Tlii-v  shLsh  nui-siiiiN  witli  Miiody  knives, 

And  nil  mil-  il.'iiiLrlit.TS  full  ; 
Anil,  if  ilii'v  niunlrr  imt  uiir  wives. 

We  huve  j^'.iud  luck  witli;il." 

Hawse-hole.  He  has  crept  through 
the  hawse-hole,  or  He  has  come  in  at  the 
hawse-hole.  That  is,  he  entered  the 
service  in  the  lowest  grade ;  he  rose 
from  the  ranks.  A  naval  phrase.  The 
hawse-hole  of  a  ship  is  that  through 
which  the  cable  of  the  anchor  runs. 

Hawthorn,  iu  florology, means  "Good 
Hope,"  l)ecause  it  shows  the  winter  is 
over  and  spring  is  at  hand.  The  Athe- 
nian girls  used  to  crown  themselves 
with  hawthorn  Hovvers  at  weddings,  and 
the  marriage-torch  was  made  of  haw- 
thorn. The  Romans  considered  it  a 
charm  against  sorcery,  and  placed  leaves 
of  it  on  the  cradles  of  new-born  infants. 

V  The  hawthorn  was  chosen  by 
Henry  VII.  for  his  device,  because  the 
crown  of  Richard  HE.  was  discovered  in 
a  hawthorn  bush  at  Bosworth. 

Hay,  Hagh,  or  Haugh.  A  royal 
park  iu  "  which  no  man  commons" ;  rich 
pasture-land  ;  asBilhagh  (Billa-haitf/h), 
Beskwood-  or  Bestwood-hay,  Lindeby- 
hay,  Welley-hay  or  Wel-hay.  These 
five  hayswere  "special  reserves"  of  game 
for  royalty  alone. 

A  bottle  of  haij.     {See  Bottle.) 

Between  haij  and  grass.  Too  late  for 
oiie  and  too  soon  for  the  other. 

Neither  Itaij  )tor  grass.  Tliat  hobby- 
de-hoy  state  when  a  youth  is  neither  boy 
nor  man. 

Make  hag  while  the  sun  shines. 

Strike  while  the  iron  is  hot. 

Take  time  by  the  forelock. 

One  to-day  is  worth  two  to-morrows. 
{Franklin.) 

Hayston  (Frank).  The  laird  of 
Bucklaw,  afterwards  laird  of  Girning- 
ton.  (Sir  JTalter  Scott :  Bride  of  Lain- 
mcrinoor.) 

Hayward.  A  keeper  of  the  cattle 
or  common  herd  of  a  village  or  parish. 
The  word  hag  means  "  hedge,"  and  this 
herdsman  was  so  called  because  he  had 
"  ward  "  of  the  "  hedges  "  also.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  Leg,  hay  ;  hege,  a  hedge.) 


Hazazel.    The  Scape-goat  (q.r.). 

Hazel.    (See  Divining  Rod.) 

Hazel-nut.  (Anglo  -  Saxon,  hcesel- 
hnat.  from  h(cscl,  a  hat  or  cap,  the  cap- 
nut  or  the  nut  enclosed  in  a  cap.) 

Head.  (Latin,  capat ;  Saxon,  hedfod  ; 
Scotch,  hafet ;  contracted  into  head.) 

Better  be  the  head  of  an  ass  than  the  tail 
of  a  horse.  Better  be  foremost  amongst 
commoners  than  the  lowest  of  the  aris- 
tocracy ;  better  be  the  head  of  the  yeo- 
manry than  the  tail  of  the  gentry.  Tlie 
Italians  say,  '■' E  meglio  esscr  testa  di 
luccio  che  coda  di  stnrione.^' 

He  has  a  head  on  his  shoulders.  He  is 
up  to  snuff  (q.r.)  ;  he  is  a  clever  fellow, 
with  brains  in  his  head. 

He  has  quite  lost  his  head.  He  is  ia  a 
quandary  or  quite  confused. 

I  can  make  neither  head  nor  tail  of  it. 
I  cannot  understand  it  at  all.  A  gambling 
phrase. 

Men  with  heads  beneath  the  shoulders. 
(Sec  Caoea.) 

Mm  without  heads.     (See  Blemjiyes.) 

Of  onei' s  head.  Deranged;  delirious; 
extremely  excited.  Here  "  head  " 
means  intelligence,  understanding,  etc. 
His  intelligence  or  understanding  has 
gone  away. 

To  bundle  one  out  head  and  heels. 
"  Sans  cerimonie,''''  altogether.  The 
allusion  is  to  a  custom  at  one  time  far 
too  frequent  in  cottages,  for  a  whole 
family  to  sleep  together  in  one  bed  head 
to  heels  or  pcdnain'oie.  as  it  was  termed 
in  Cornwall ;  to  bundle  the  whole  lot 
out  of  bed  was  to  turn  them  out  head 
and  heels. 

To  head  off.     To  intercept. 

To  hit  the  nail  on  the  head.  You  have 
guessed  aright ;  you  have  done  the  right 
thing.  The  allusion  is  obvious.  The 
French  say,  "  Vous  avez  frappc  au  but  " 
(You  have  hit  the  mark)  ;  the  Italians 
have  the  phrase,  "  Ilavete  dato  in 
brocca''''  (You  have  hit  the  pitcher),  al- 
luding to  a  game  where  a  pitcher  stood 
in  the  place  of  Aunt  Sally  (q.r.).  The 
Latin,  "  Jieni  acu  tetigisti"  (You  have 
touched  the  thing  with  a  needle),  refers 
to  the  custom  of  probing  sores. 

To  keep  one's  head  abore  water.  To 
avoid  bankruptcy.  The  allusion  is  to  a 
person  immersed  in  water  ;  so  long  as 
his  head  is  above  water  his  life  remains, 
but  bad  swimmers  find  it  hard  to  keep 
their  heads  above  water. 

To  lose  oJie's  head.  To  be  confused  and 
mnddle-minded. 

2'o  make  head.    To  get  on. 


Head 


500 


Heart 


Head  Shaved  {Get  your).    You  are 

a  dotai'd.  Go  and  get  your  head  shaved 
like  other  lunatics.     {Hee  Bath.) 

"  Tlinu  tbiiikst  that  monarch^  novor  can  act  ill, 
Get  tliy  liL-ad  sbaveil,   poor  foul,   or  think   so 
still."  J'eter  rindar  :  Ude  Upon  Ode. 

Head  and  Ears.  Oirr  head  and  ears 
[in  debt,  iu  love,  etc.],  completely  ;  en- 
tirely. The  allusion  is  to  a  person 
immersed  in  water.  The  French  phrase 
is  "  Aroir  des  dettes pardessus  la  tite.^'' 

Head  and  Shoulders.  A  phrase  of 
Ruiidiy  shades  of  meaning.  Thus  "  head 
and  shoulders  taller"  means  consider- 
ably tall ;  to  turn  one  out  head  and 
shoulders  means  to  drive  one  out  forcibly 
anil  without  ceremony. 

Head  of  Cattle.  Cattle  are  counted 
by  the  hiad ;  manufacturing  labourers 
by  hands,  as  "How  many  hands  do  you 
employ  ?  "  horses  by  the  iwne  {Sec 
Nose)  ;  guests  at  dinner  by  the  cover, 
as  "Covers  for  ten,"  etc.  {See  Num- 
bers, Hand.) 

V  In  contracting  for  meals  the  con- 
tractor takes  the  job  at  so  much  "  a 
head  " — i.e.  for  each  person. 

Head  over  Heels  {To  ixrn).  To 
place  the  hands  ujron  the  ground  and 
throw  the  legs  upwaids  so  as  to  de- 
scribe half  a  circle. 

Heads  or  Tails.  Guess  whether  the 
coin  tossed  up  will  come  down  with  head- 
side  uppermost  or  not.  The  side  not 
bearing  the  head  has  various  devices, 
sometimes  Britaimia,  sometimes  George 
and  the  Dragon,  sometimes  a  harp,  some- 
times the  royal  arms,  sometunes  an  in- 
scription, etc.  These  devices  are  all  in- 
cluded in  the  word  tail,  meaning  opposite 
to  the  head.  The  ancient  Romans  used 
to  play  this  game,  but  said,  "Heads  or 
ships." 

"Cum  pueri  denarios  in  sublime  jactantos, 
'  capita  aut  navia,'  lusu  teste  vetustatis  excla- 
inaut." — Macrubius  Saturnalia,  i.  7. 

Neither  head  nor  tail.  Nothing  con- 
sistent. "  I  can  make  neither  head  nor 
tail  of  what  you  say,"  i.e.  I  cannot  bolt 
the  matter  to  the  bran. 

Heads  I  Win,  Tails  you  Lose.    In 

tossing  up  a  coin,  with  such  an  arrange- 
ment, the  person  who  makes  the  bargain 
must  of  necessity  win,  and  the  person 
who  accepts  it  must  inevitably  lose. 

Heady,  wilful ;  affecting  the  head,  as 
"  The  wine  or  beer  is  heady."  (German, 
hej'tiy,  ardent,  strong,  self-willed.) 

Healing  Gold.  Gold  given  to  a  king 
for  "  heahng "  the  king's  evil,  which 
was  done  by  a  touch. 


Health.  Your  health.  The  story  is 
that  Vortigern  was  invitetl  to  dine  at 
the  house  of  Hengist,  wlien  Rowe'na, 
the  host's  daughter,  brought  a  cup  of 
wine  which  she  presented  to  their  royal 
guest,  saying,  "  Was  ha-' I,  hlaford  cyn- 
ing "  (Your  health,  lord  king).  {See 
Wassail.) 

William  of  Malme.sbury  says  the  cus- 
tom took  its  rise  from  the  death  of  young 
King  Edward  the  Martyr,  who  was 
traitorously  stabbed  in  the  back  while 
drinking  a  cup  of  wine  presented  to  him 
by  his  motlier  Elfrida. 

Ihinhing  healths.  The  Romans  adopted 
a  curious  fa.shion  of  drinking  the  health 
of  their  lady-loves,  and  that  was  to  drink 
a  bumper  to  each  letter  of  her  name. 
Hudibras  satirises  this  custom,  which  he 
calls  "  spelling  names  with  becr-glasres  " 
(part  ii.  chap.  1). 

'■>':i?via  sex  c.vatliis,  s-^ptcm  Justina  Mbatur 
OuimUR'  Lycas,  Lydo  quatuc.r,  Ida  trilms. 

ilaitial.  i.  72. 
Tlircc  cupB  to  Amy,  four  to  Kate  be  given. 
To  .Susan  Ave,  six  Itachcl,  Eridget  seven. 

E.  C.  B. 

Heap.  Strach  all  of  a  heap.  To  be 
struck  with  astonishment.  '■'■  Utre  ahuri." 
The  idea  is  that  of  confusion,  having 
the  wits  bundled  together  in  a  heap. 

Hear.  To  hear  as  ahoy  in  harvest.  In 
at  one  ear  and  ovit  at  the  other ;  hear 
without  paying  attention.  Giles  Firmin 
says,  "If  you  call  hogi  out  of  the  har- 
vest .stubble,  they  will  just  lift  up  their 
heads  to  listen,  and  fall  to  their  shack 
again."     {Real  Christian,  1670.) 

Hearse  ( 1  syl. )  means  simply  a  harrow. 
Those  harrows  used  in  Roman  Catholic 
churches  (or  frames  with  spikes)  for 
holding  candles  are  called  in  France 
herses.  These  frames  at  a  later  period 
were  covered  with  a  canopy,  and  lastly 
were  mounted  on  wheels. 

Heart.  A  variety  of  the  word  core. 
(Latin,  cord',  the  heart ;  Greek,  kard' ; 
Sanskrit,  herd'  ;  Anglo-Saxon,  hcorte.) 

Heart  (iu  Christian  art) ,  the  attribute 
of  St.  There'sa. 

The  flaminy  heart  (in  Christian  art), 
the  syinbol  of  charity.  An  attribute  of 
St.  A'ugustine,  denoting  the  fervency  of 
liis  devotion.  The  heart  of  the  Saviour 
is  frequently  so  represented. 

Heart. 

Phrases,  Proverbs,  etc. 

A  bloody  heart.  Smce  the  time  of  Good 
Lord  James  the  Douglases  have  carried 
upon  their  shields  a  bloody  heart  with  a 
crown  upon  it,  in  memory  of  the  expedi- 
tion of  Lord  James  to  Spain  with  the 


Heart 


591 


Heart  of 


heart  of  King  Robert  Bruce.  King 
Robert  commissioned  his  friend  to  carry 
his  heart  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  Lord 
James  had  it  enclosed  in  a  silver  casket, 
which  he  wore  round  his  neck.  On  his 
way  to  the  Holy  Land,  he  stopped  to 
aid  Alphonso  of  Castile  against  Osmyn 
the  Moor,  and  was  slain.  Sir  Simon 
Lockhard  of  Lee  was  commissioned  to 
carry  the  heart  back  to  Scotland.  {Tales 
of  a'draudfathcr,  xi.) 

After  nil/  ""'"  heart.  Just  what  I 
like ;  in  accordance  with  my  liking  or 
wish  ;  the  heart  being  the  sujiposed 
seat  of  the  affections. 

Be  of  (/ood  heart.  Cheer  up.  In  Latin, 
"  Fae,  bono  an'tino  sin  ;  "  the  heart  being 
the  seat  of  moral  courage. 

Oat  of  heart.  Despondent ;  without 
sanguine  hope.  In  Latin,  '■'■  Aiiimiiui 
(lespo)i(lere.''''  In  French,  "  I'erdre 
courage.'''' 

Set  i/our  heart  at  rest.  Be  quite  easy 
about  the  mattei'.  In  French,  '■'■  Mettez 
voire  cwtir  a  Vaise.''''  The  heart  is  the 
supposed  organ  of  the  sensibilities  (in- 
cluding the  affections,  etc.). 

To  break  one's  heart.  To  waste  away 
or  die  of  disappointment.  "Broken- 
hearted," hopelessly  distressed.  In 
French,  "  Cehc  Die  fend  le  caiir.^^  The 
heart  is  the  organ  of  life. 

7'o  learn  l>i/  heart.  To  learn  memo- 
riter  ;  to  commit  to  memory.  In  French, 
"  Tar  c(eiir  "  or  "  Appremlre  par  cwar.''^ 
(See  Leabn.) 

To  set  oiie''s  heart  upon.  Earnestly  to 
desire  it.  ^'  Je  ratine  de  tout  mon  ewur  ;  " 
the  heart  being  the  supposed  seat  of  the 
affections. 

Take  heart.  Be  of  good  courage. 
Moral  courage  at  one  time  was  supposed 
to  reside  in  the  heart,  physical  courage 
in  the  stomach,  wisdom  in  the  head, 
affection  in  the  reins  or  kidneys,  melan- 
choly in  the  bile,  spirit  in  the  blood,  etc. 
In  French,  ^'■prendre  courage.'''' 

To  take  to  heart.  To  feel  deeply 
pained  [at  something  which  has  oc- 
curred]. In  Latin,  "  Percuss'it  iiiihi 
animuin;^'  "  iniquo  ai/iiiio  ferre.^'  In 
French,  "  Freudre  une  affaire  a  coeur  ;  " 
the  heart  being  the  supposed  seat  of  the 
affections. 

To  tcear  one^s  heart  upon  oiie\<!  sUeve. 
To  expose  one's  secret  intentions  to 
general  notice ;  the  reference  being  to 
the  custom  of  tying  your  lady's  favour 
to  your  sleeve,  and  thus  exposing  the 
secret  of  the  heart.  la  go  says,  "Wlien 
my  outward  action  shows  my  secret 
heart,  I  will  wear  my  heart  upon  my 
sleevCj  as  one  does  a  lady's  favour,  for 


daws  [?  dows,  pigeons]  to  peck  at." 
Dows  =  fools,  or  simpletons  to  laugh  at 
or  quiz.     {Othello,  i.  1.) 

With  all  mil  heart.  "  F>e  tout  mon 
ea'ur;^'  most  willing.  The  heart,  as 
the  seat  of  the  affections  and  sensibilities, 
is  also  the  scat  of  the  will. 

Eeart-breaker  {A).  A  flirt.  A'so 
a  particular  kind  of  curl.  Called  in 
French  Aceroche-cwur.  At  one  time 
loose  ringlets  worn  over  the  shoulders 
were  called  heart- breakers.  At  another 
time  a  curl  worn  over  the  temples  was 
called  an  Accroehe-coeur,  creve  cwur. 

Heart-rending.  Very  pathetic.  "Qtii 
di'chire  le  cwur;"  the  heart  as  the  seat 
of  the  affections. 

Heart-whole.  Not  in  love ;  the 
affections  not  given  to  another. 

"  I  in  Iiivp  ?  .  .  .  I  Rive  you  my  wnnl  T  ;nii  Iieart- 
■wluile."— Sirir.  Scott :  Itedgauntlet  (letter  13). 

Heart  and  Soul.  With  viij  whole 
heart  and  sou/.  With  all  the  energy  and 
enthusiasm  of  which  I  am  cajiable.  In 
French,  "  S''//  porter  de  tout  son  rwur.^'' 
Mark  xii.  33  says,  "Love  [God]  with 
all  thy  heart  [affection],  all  thy  soul  [or 
glow  of  spiritual  life],  all  thy  strength 
[or  physical  powers],  and  all  thy  under- 
standing [that  is,  let  Ihy  love  be  also  a 
reasonable  service,  an.l  not  mere  enthu- 
siasm]." 

Heart  in  his  Boots.  JFs  heart  fell 
into  his  hose  or  sank  into  his  boots.  In 
Latin,  "  Cor  illi  in  genua  dectdit.^'  In 
French,  '^  Avoir  la  pcur  anirntre.^'  The 
two  last  phrases  are  very  expressive  : 
Fear  makes  the  knees  .shake,  and  it 
gives  one  a  stomach-ache ;  but  the 
English  phrase,  if  it  means  anything, 
must  mean  that  it  induces  the  person  to 
run  away. 

Heart  in  his  Mouth.  JFis  heart 
iras  in  his  mouth.  That  choky  feeling 
in  the  throat  which  arises  from  fear, 
conscious  guilt,  shyness,  etc. 

"Tlip  yminK  lover  tried  to  look  at  liis  eas",  .  .  . 
1  lit  his  lieart  was  in  his  mouth."— ifissr/KM'/.'croj/.; 
Mm.  DiniwHii,  p.  15(). 

Heart  of  Grace  {To  take).  To  pluck 
up  courage  ;  not  to  be  disheartened  or 
down-heartod.  This  expression  is  based 
on  the  jiromise,  "  My  grace  is  suflficient 
for  thee  "  (2  Cor.  xii.  9)  ;  by  this  grace 
St.  Paul  says,  "  When  I  am  -weak  then 
am  I  strong."  Take  grace  into  your 
heart,  rely  on  God's  grace  for  strength, 
with  grace  in  your  heart  your  feeble 
knees  will  be  strengthened.  {See  Hakt 
OF  Gehase.) 


Seart  of 


Bd2 


Heaven 


Heart  of  Hearts  {In  onc\s).  In 
one's  inmost  conviction.  The  heart  is 
often  refeiTcd  to  as  a  second  self. 
Shakespeare  speaks  of  the  ' '  neck  of  the 
heart  "  {Merchant  of  Venice,  ii.  2)  ;  "  the 
middle  of  the  heart "  {Cymhelitte,  i.  7). 
The  heart  of  the  heart  is  to  the  same 
effect. 

Heart    of   Midlothian.      The    old 

jail,  the  Tolbooth  of  Ediuhurgh,  taken 
"down  in  181 7.  Sir  Walter  Scott  has  a 
novel  so  called. 

Heart's  Ease.  The  viola  tricolnr. 
It  has  a  host  of  fancy  names ;  as,  the 
'' Butterfly  flower,"  "Kiss  me  quick," 
a  "Kiss  behind  the  garden  gate," 
"Love  in  idleness,"  "Pansy,"  "Three 
faces  under  one  hood,"  the  "Variegated 
violet,"  "  Herba  Trinitatis. "  The  quo- 
tation annexed  will  explain  the  pojjular 
tradition  of  the  flower  : — 

"  Yet  niiirked  I  ■vvliorp  the  lioH  nf  Cupid  fell  : 
It  fell  iiiinn  a  little  western  flower, 
Befiire    milk-white,  now   purple   with    love's 

wounil. 
Anil  ni;iiilens  call  it  Inve-in-iflleness.  .  .  . 
The  juice  of  it  on  sleeping  eyelids  laid 
Will  make  a  man  or  woman  madly  doat 
Upon  the  next  live  creature  that  it  sees." 
Shakespeare  :  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  ii.  1. 

Hearth  Money.  {See  Chimney 
Money.  ) 

Heat.  One  course  in  a  race  ;  activity, 
action. 

"  Feigned  Zeal,  you  saw,  set  out  with  speedier 
jiace. 
But  the  last  heat  Plain  Dealins  won  the  race." 
Dryden. 

Heathen.  A  dweller  on  a  heath  or 
common.  Christian  doctrines  would  not 
reach  these  remote  peojde  till  long  after 
they  had  been  accepted  in  towns,  and 
even  villages.  (Anglo-Saxon,  hathen, 
hath.    {See  Pagan.) 

Heaven.  (Anglo-Saxon,  heofon,  from 
heofen,  elevated,  vaulted.) 

The  Three  Heavens.  (According  to 
the  Jewish  system.)  The  word  heaven 
in  the  Bible  denotes  (1)  the  air,  thus 
we  read  of  "  the  fowls  of  heaven,"  "  the 
dew  of  heaven,"  and  "the  clouds  of 
heaven  "  ;  (2)  the  starry  firmament,  as, 
"  Let  there  be  lights  in  the  firmament 
of  heaven"  (Gen.  i.  14)  ;  (3)  the  palace 
of  Jehovah  ;  thus  we  read  that  "  heaven 
is  My  throne  "  (Isa.  Ixvi.  1,  and  Matt. 
V.  34). 

V  Loosely,  the  word  is  used  in  Scrip- 
ture sometimes  simply  to  express  a  great 
height.  "The  cities  are  walled  up  to 
heaven  "  (Deut.  i.  28).  So  the  builders 
on  Shinar  designed  to  raise  a  tower 
whose  top  should  "  reach  unto  heaven  " 
(Gen.  xi.  4). 


The  Five  Heavens.  (According  to 
the  Ptolemaic  system.)  (1)  The  planet- 
ary heaven ;  (2)  the  sphere  of  the  fixed 
stars  ;  (3)  the  crystalline,  which  vibrates ; 
(4)  the  primum  mo'bile,  which  communi- 
cates motion  to  the  lower  spheres ;  (o) 
the  empjTe'an  or  seat  of  deity  and 
angels.     {Sec  above.) 

"  Sometimes   she   deemed  that  Mars  had  from 
above 
Left  Ills  fifth  heaven,  the  powers  of  men  to 
prove." 

Boole:  Orlando  Furioso,  book  xiii. 

The  Seven  Heavens.  (According  to 
the  Mahometan  system.) 

The  first  heaven,  says  ^Lahomet,  is  of 
pure  silver,  and  here  the  stars  are  hung 
out  like  lamps  on  golden  chains.  Each 
star  has  an  angel  for  warder.  In  this 
heaven  "  the  prophet "  found  Adam  and 
Eve. 

J7ie  second  hearen,  says  Mahomet,  is 
of  polished  steel  and  dazzling  splendour. 
Here  "  the  proi)het"  found  Noah. 

The  third  hearen,  says  Mahomet,  is 
studded  with  precious  stones  too  bril- 
liant for  the  eye  of  man.  Here  Az'rael, 
the  angel  of  death,  is  stationed,  and  is 
for  ever  writing  in  a  large  book  or 
blotting  words  out.  The  former  are  the 
names  of  persons  born,  the  latter  those 
of  the  newly  dead.  (See  below,  Hearen 
of  heavens.) 

The  fourth  heaven,  he  says,  is  of  the 
finest  silver.  Here  dwells  the  Angel  of 
Tears,  whose  height  is  "  500  days'  jour- 
ney," and  he  sheds  ceaseless  tears  for 
the  sins  of  man. 

The  fifth  heaven  is  of  purest  gold,  and 
here  dwells  the  Avenging  Angel,  who 
presides  over  elemental  fire.  Here  "  the 
prophet"  met  Aaron.     {See  heloic.) 

The  sixth  heaven  is  composed  of  Has'- 
ala,  a  sort  of  carbuncle.  Here  dwells 
the  Guardian  Angel  of  heaven  and 
earth,  half-snow  and  half-fire.  It  was 
here  that  Mahomet  saw  Moses,  who 
wept  with  envy. 

The  seventh  hearen,  says  the  same 
veritable  authority,  is  formed  of  divine 
light  beyond  the  power  of  tongue  to 
describe.  Each  inhabitant  is  bigger 
than  the  whole  earth,  and  has  70,000 
heads,  each  head  70,000  mouths,  each 
mouth  70.000  tongues,  and  each  tongue 
speaks  70,000  languages,  all  for  ever 
employed  in  chanting  the  praises  of  the 
Most  High.  Here  he  met  Abraham. 
{See  below). 

To  he  in  the  serenih  hearen.  Su- 
premely happJ^  The  Cabbalists  main- 
tained that  there  are  seven  heavens,  each 
rising  in  happiness  above  the  other,  the 


Heavies 


593 


Hecatomb 


seventh  being  the  ahode  of  God  aud  the 
highest  chiss  of  angels.     {Sec  above.) 

The  Nine  Heavens.  The  term 
heaven  was  used  anciently  to  denote  the 
or))  or  sphere  in  wliich  a  celestial  body 
was  supposed  to  move,  hence  the  number 
of  heavens  varied.  According  to  one 
system,  the  first  heaven  was  that  of  the 
Moon,  the  second  that  of  Venus,  the 
third  that  of  Mercury,  the  fourth  that 
of  the  Sun,  the  fifth  that  of  Mars,  the 
sixth  that  of  Jupiter,  the  seventh  that 
or  Saturn,  the  eighth  that  of  the  ''  fixt  " 
or  firmament,  and  the  ninth  that  of  the 
VriifitaUine.     {Sec  Nine  Spheres.) 

ilEAVEN  (in  modern  phrascolngy) 
m°ans  :  (1)  a  great  hut  indefinite  licij^^lit, 

(2)  the  sky  or  the  vault  of  the  clouds, 

(3)  the  special  abode  of  God,  (1)  the 
place  of  supreme  felicity,  (5)  supposed 
resi<leuce  of  the  celestial  gods,  etc. 

The  hcaren  of  hcarcns.  A  Hebrewism 
to  express  the  highest  of  the  heavens, 
the  special  residence  of  Jehovah.  Simi- 
lar superlatives  are  "  the  Lord  of  lords," 
"the  God  of  gods,"  "the  Song  of 
songs."  {Compare  our  Very  very  much, 
etc.) 

"  Be'uild.tbo  lieiven  aixl  tbe  hcavon  of  heavens 
i3  the  Liird's.""— Deut.  x.  U. 

Animals  arlmittcd  into  heaven.  {See 
under  Paeadise.) 

Heavies  {The),  means  the  heavy  cav- 
alry, which  consists  of  men  of  greater 
build  and  height  than  Lancers  aud 
Hussars.     {See  Light  Teoops.) 

Heavy  Man  {The),  in  theatrical  par- 
lance, means  an  actor  who  plays  foil  to 
the  hpro,  such  as  the  king  in  Hamlet,  the 
mere  foil  to  the  prince  ;  la  go  is  another 
'•  heavy  man's  "  part  as  foil  to  Othello  ; 
the  "  tiger"  in  the  Tieket  of  Leave  Man 
is  another  part  for  the  "ifieavy  man." 
Such  jjarts  preserve  a  degree  of  im- 
portance, but  never  rise  into  passion. 

Heavy-armed  Artillery  (T//c)-  The 
garrison  artillery.  The  "  light -anned 
artillery  "  are  Royal  Horse  Ai-tillery. 

He'be    (2  syl.).     Goddess  of  youth, 
and   cup-bearer  to    the    celestial    gods. 
She  had  the  power  of  restoring  the  aged 
to  youth  and  beauty.  {Greek  nujtholo(/ij.) 
"  Wreathed  smiles 
Such  as  hang  on  Hebe's  cheek, 
And  love  to  live  in  dimple  sleek." 

Milton:  L'Atlejro. 

Hebe  rases.  Small  vases  like  a  coty- 
liscos.  So  termed  because  Hebe  is  re- 
presented as  bearing  one  containing 
nectar  for  the  gods. 

Hebertists  (3  syl.).  The  partisans 
of  the   vile  demagogue,   Jacques  Kene 


H^ert,  chief  of  the  Cordeliers,  a  revo- 
lutionary club  which  boasted  of  such 
names  as  Anacharsis  Clootz,  Ronsin, 
Vincent,  and  Momoro,  in  the  great 
French  Revolution. 

Heb'ron,  in  the  satire  of  Absalom 
and  Aehi/ophel,  in  the  first  jiart  stands 
for  Holland,  but  in  the  second  jmrt  for 
Scotland.  Heb'ronite  (3  syl.),  a  native 
of  Holland  or  Scotland. 

Hec'ate  (3  syl.  in  Greek,  2  in  Eng.). 
A  triple  deity,  called  Phcebe  or  the  Moon 
in  heaven,  Diana  on  the  earth,  and  He- 
cate or  Proserpine  in  hell.  She  is  de- 
scribed as  having  three  heads— one  of  a 
horse,  one  of  a  dog,  aud  one  of  a  lion. 
Her  offerings  consisted  of  dogs,  honey, 
and  black  lambs.  She  was  sometimes 
called  "  Tri'via,"  because  offerings  were 
presented  to  her  at  cross-roads.  Shake- 
speare refers  to  the  triple  character  of 
this  goddess : 

'And  we  fairies  that  do  run 
By  the  triple  Hecate  s  team.'' 

iJidsammcr  Xi(jht'n  Bream,  v.  2. 

lleeate,  daughter  of  Perses  the  Titan, 
is  a  very  different  person  to  the  "  Triple 
Hecate,"  who,  according  to  Hesiod,  was 
daughter  of  Zeus  and  a  benevolent 
goddess.  Hecate,  daughter  of  Perses, 
was  a  magician,  poisoned  her  father, 
raised  a  temple  to  Diana  in  which  she 
immolated  strangers,  and  was  mother 
of  Mede'a  and  Circe.  She  presided  over 
magic  and  enchantments,  taught  sorcery 
and  witchcraft.  She  is  represented 
with  a  lighted  torch  aud  a  sword,  and 
is  attended  by  two  black  dogs. 

V  Shakespeare,  in  his  Mnebeth,  alludes 
to  both  these  Hecates.  Thus  in  act  ii. 
1  he  speaks  of  '■'pale  Hecate,"  i.e.  the 
mother  of  Medea  and  Circe,  goddess  of 
magicians,  whom  they  invoked,  and  to 
whom  they  made  offerings. 

"  Now  .  .  .  [at  nif-'ht]  witchcraft  celebrates 
Palo  Hecate's  offerings." 

But  in  act  iii.  2  he  speaks  of  '■'■black 
Hecate,"  meaning  night,  and  says  be- 
fore the  night  is  over  and  day  dawns, 
there 

"  shall  he  done 
A  deed  of  dreadful  note;"  i.e.  the  murder  of 
Duncan. 

N.B.  Without  doubt,  sometimes  these 
two  Hecates  are  confounded. 

Hecatamb.  It  is  said  that  Pytha- 
goras offered  up  100  oxen  to  the  gods 
when  he  discovered  that  the  square  of 
the  hypothenuse  of  a  right-angled- 
triangle  equals  both  the  squares  of  the 
other  two  sides.  This  is  the  47th  of 
book  i.  of  "Euclid,"  called  the  dul- 
carnein  {q.v.).    But  Pythagoras  never 


Hector 

sacrificed  animals,  and  would  not  suffer 
his  disciples  to  do  so. 

"He  saciiflced  to  the  pnds  millet  and  boney- 
coiiili,  but  imt  aninials.  [AsainJ  He  forbade  his 
ilisriplcs  to  sacrifice  (>xcn."—lamOlichus:  Life  of 
r.,tliti(jnriif,  x\  iii.  \'\<.  los-u. 

Hector.     Eldest  son  of  Priam,   the 

noblest  and  most  magnanimous  of  all 
the  chieftains  in  Homer's  I/iail  (a  Greek 
epic).  After  holding  out  for  ten  years, 
he  was  slain  by  Achilles,  who  lashed 
him  to  his  chariot,  and  dragged  tlie 
dead  body  in  triumpli  thrice  round  the 
walls  of  Ti-oy.  The  I/iad  concludes 
with  the  funeral  obsequies  of  Hector 
and  Patroc'los. 

T/ir  Hector  of  Germain/.  Joachim  II., 
Elector  of  Brandenburg  (lol4-la71). 

Yon  near  IIcctor''s  cloak.  You  are 
paid  off  for  trying  to  deceive  another. 
You  are  paid  in  your  own  coin.  Wlien 
Thomas  Percy,  Earl  of  Northumberland, 
iu  l/JBO,  was  routed,  he  hid  himself  in 
the  House  of  Hector  Annstrong,  of  Har- 
law.  This  villain  betrayed  liirn  for  the 
reward  offered,  but  never  after  did  any- 
thiug  go  well  with  him  ;  he  went  down, 
doAvn,  down,  till  at  last  he  died  a  beggar 
in  rags  on  the  roadside. 

Hector  {A).  A  leader ;  so  called 
from  the  son  of  Priam  and  generalis- 
simo of  the  Trojans. 

Hector  ( To) .  To  swagger,  or  play  the 
bully.  It  is  hard  to  conceive  how  the 
brave,  modest,  noble-minded  patriot 
came  to  be  made  the  sjTionym  of  a 
braggart  and  blusterer  like  Ajax. 

Hectors.  Street  bullies  and  brawlers 
who  delighted  in  being  as  rude  as  pos- 
sible, especially  to  women.  Kobberj- 
was  not  their  object,  but  simply  to  get 
talked  about.     {Sec  Haavkubites.) 

Heculia.  Second  wife  of  Priam,  and 
mother  of  nineteen  children.  When  Troy 
was  taken  by  the  Greeks  she  fell  to  the 
lot  of  Ulysses.  She  was  afterwards 
metamorjjhosed  into  a  dog,  and  threw 
herself  into  the  sea.  The  place  where 
she  perished  was  afterwards  called  the 
I>n(]\t  -  grave  (cjnios-se'ma).  {Homer: 
Iliad,  etc.) 

On  to  Hecuha.  To  the  point  or  main 
incident.  The  story  of  Hecuba  has 
furnished  a  host  of  Greek  tragedies. 

Hedge  (1  syl.).  To  hedr/e,  in  betting, 
is  to  defend  oneself  from  loss  by  cross - 
bets.  As  a  hedge  is  a  defence,  so  cross - 
betting  is  hedging.  {E.  Hunt :  The 
Toirn,  ix.) 

"He  [Godolpliin]  began  to  tlilnk  .  .  .  that  lie 
had  betted  too  deep  .  .  .  and  that  it  w:)s  time  to 
hedge."— Ji/nc«u;((!/ ;  Englmid,  vol.  iv.  chap.  xvii. 
P-  46, 


594  Hegemony 


Hedge  Lane  (London)  includes  that 
whole  line  of  streets  (Dorset,  Whitcomb, 
Prince's,  and  Wardour)  stretching  from 
Pall  Mall  East  to  Oxford  Street. 

Hedge  Priest.  A  poor  or  vagabond 
parson.  The  use  of  hedge  for  vagabond, 
or  very  inferior,  is  common  ;  as  hedge - 
mustard,  hedge-writer  (a  Gnibb  Street 
author),  hedge -mamage  (a  clandestine 
one),  etc.  Shakespeare  uses  the  phrase, 
''hedge-bom  swain  "  as  tlie  very  opjio- 
site  of  "  gentle  blood."  (1  Henry  /'/., 
iv.  1.) 

Hedge  School  {A).  A  school  kept 
in  the  open  air,  near  a  hedge.  At  one 
time  common  in  Ireland. 

"These  irregular  or  'hedge  schools'  arc  tole- 
rated only  in  \illages  where  no  regular  school 
exists  within  a  convenient  dislance."— /joDmrrf ; 
^oiirniil  i<f  Kdiicalion.  December,  1801',  p.  S74. 

Hedonism.  The  doctrine  of  Aristip- 
pus,  that  pleasure  or  happiness  is  the 
chief  good  and  chief  end  of  man  (Greek, 
/leduiie,  pleasure). 

Heel,  Heels.     (Anglo-Saxon  hel.) 
AcJiilles^  heel.     {Sec  tiiider  Achilles.) 
I  shoucd  him  a  fair  pair  of  heels.     I 
ran  away  and  outran  them. 

"Two  of  them  saAv  me  when  I  went  out  of 
doors,  and  chased  me.  but  1  showed  them  a  fair 
pair  of  heels."— ,S/r  ^Y.  Scott :  Pcreiil  of  the  real;, 
chap.  xxiv. 

Out  at  heels.  In  a  sad  plight,  in  de- 
cayed circumstances,  like  a  beggar  whoso 
stockiugs  are  worn  out  at  the  heels. 

"A  good  man's  fortune  may  grow  out  at  heels." 
Shali'csiicitrc  :  Kivj  Lear.  ii.  3. 

To  ,'^hoiv  a  light  pair  of  heels.  To 
abscond. 

To  take  to  o)ic\<i  heels.  To  run  off. 
"Ill  pedes  iios  conjieSrc.''^ 

Heel-tap.  Hampers  all  round,  and 
no  he.  /-laps — i.e.  the  bumpers  are  to  be 
drained  to  the  bottom  of  the  glass.  Also, 
one  of  the  thicknesses  of  the  heel  of  a 
shoe. 

Heenan.  In  Heenan  stijle.  "  By 
apostolic  blows  and  knocks."  Heenan, 
the  Benicia  boj'  of  North  America,  dis- 
puted for  the  champion's  belt  against 
Sayers,  the  British  champion.  His  build 
and  muscle  were  the  admiration  of  the 
ring. 

Heep  {Uri'ah).  An  abject  toady, 
malignant  as  he  is  base  :  always  boasting 
of  his  'umblehn-th,  '«;»/V<^' position,  ''innble 
abode,  and  \imble  calling.  (Dickens  : 
David  Coppcrfcld.) 

Hegem'ony  {g  hard).  The  hegemony 
of  nations.  The  leadership.  (Greek,  hcgc, 
mon'ia.  from  ago,  to  lead.) 


Hegira 


595 


Helicon 


Heg'ira.  The  epoch  of  the  flight  of 
Mahomet  from  Mecca,  wheu  he  was 
expelled  by  the  magistrates,  July  16th, 
622.  Mahometans  date  from  this  event. 
(Arabic,  hejira,  departure.) 

Heimdall  (2  syl.).  In  Scandinavian 
mythology,  son  of  the  nine  virgins,  all 
sisters.  He  is  called  the  c/od  icith  the 
(johlcn  tooth  or  with  golden  teeth.  Heim- 
dall was  not  an  Asa  (q.r.),  but  a  Van 
(q. v.),  who  lived  in  the  celestial  fort  Him- 
insbiorg  under  the  farther  extremity 
of  the  bridge  Bifrost  (q.r.),  and  kept 
the  keys  of  heaven.  He  is  the  watch- 
man or  sentinel  of  Asgard  {q.>'.),  sleeps 
less  than  a  bird,  sees  even  in  sleep,  can 
hear  the  gi-ass  grow,  and  even  the  wool 
on  a  lamb's  back.  Heimdall,  at  the  end 
of  the  world,  will  wake  the  gods  with 
his  trumpet,  when  the  sous  of  Muspell 
will  go  against  them,  with  Loki,  the  wolf 
Fenrir,and  the  great  serpent  Jormungand. 

Heimdall's  Horn.  The  sound  of 
this  horn  went  through  all  tho  world, 

Heimdaller.  The  learned  humbugs 
in  the  court  of  King  Dinu'be  of  Hisis- 
burg.      {Grhnn)^s  Goblins.) 

Heims-kringla  (The).  A  prose 
legend  found  in  the  Snorra  Edda. 

Heir  -  apparent.  The  person  who 
will  succeed  as  heir  if  he  survives.  At 
the  death  of  his  predecessor  the  heir- 
apparent  becomes  heir-at-law. 

Heir-presumptive.  One  who  will 
be  licLi-  if  no  one  is  bora  having  a  prior 
claim.  Thus  the  Princess  Royal  was 
heir-presumptive  till  the  Prince  of 
Wales  was  born;  and  if  the  Prince  of 
Wales  had  been  king  before  any  family 
had  been  born  to  him,  his  brother, 
Prince  Alfred,  would  have  been  heii-- 
presumptive. 

Hel  or  Hela  (in  Scandinavian  myth- 
ology), queen  of  the  dead,  is  goddess  of 
the  ninth  earth  or  nether  world.  She 
dwelt  beneath  the  roots  of  the  sacred 
ash  (ijggdrasil),  and  was  the  daughter  of 
Loki.  The  All-father  sent  her  into 
Helheim,  where  she  was  given  dominion 
over  nine  worlds,  and  to  one  or  other  of 
these  nine  worlds  she  sends  all  who  die 
of  sickness  or  old  age.  Her  dwelling  is 
Elvid'nir  {dark  cloi(d.s),  her  dish  Hungr 
{hunger),  her  knife  Sullt  {starvation), 
her  servants  Gangla'ti  {tardg-feet),  her 
bed  Kor  {siekness),  and  her  bed-curtains 
Blikian'dabol  {uplendid  miserg).  Half 
ber  body  was  blue. 

"  Down  the  yawning  steep  he  rorie 
That  led  to  Helas  rtrear  abode." 

Grey  :  Descent  of  Odin. 


Hel  Keplein.  A  mantle  of  invisi- 
bility belonging  to  thedwarf-king  Laurin. 
(German,  hehlen,  to  conceal.)  {27ie 
Hcldenbiich.) 

Heldenbuch  (Book  of  Heroes).  A 
German  compilation  of  all  the  romances 
pertaining  to  Diderick  and  his  cham- 
pions, by  Wolfram  von  Eschenbach. 

Helen.  The  tyjje  of  female  beauty, 
more  especially  in  those  who  have  reached 
womanhood.  Daughterof  Zeus  andLeda, 
and  wife  of  Menela'os,  King  of  Sparta. 

"  She  moves  a  goddess  and  slie  louks  a  queen." 
J'ope:  Homer's  Iliad,  iii. 

The  Helen  of  Spain.  Cava  or  Florinda, 
daughter  of  Count  Julian.     {See  Cava.) 

St.  Helen's  Jire  (feu  d'Helene) ;  also 
called  Fea  St.  Helme  (St.  Helme's  or  St. 
Elmo's  fire) ;  and  by  the  Itali-ins  "the 
fires  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Nicholas." 
Meteoric  fires  seen  occasionally  on  the 
masts  of  ships,  etc.  If  the  flame  is 
single,  foul  weather  is  said  to  be  at  hand  ; 
but  if  two  or  mcrj  flames  appear,  the 
weather  will  improve.     {See  Castoe.) 

Helen  of  One's  Troy  {Tin).  The 
ambition  of  one's  life ;  the  subject  for 
which  we  would  live  and  die.  The 
allusion,  of  course,  is  to  that  Helen  wlio 
eloped  with  Paris,  and  thus  brought 
about  the  siege  and  destruction  of  Troy. 

"  p'or  whirh  men  all  the  life  tho.v  here  enjoy 
Still  fl'-'lit.  as  for  tlic  Hclt-iis  of  their  Trny." 
Lord  Brooke  :  Treatie  of  Humane  Leanung. 

Helena.  The  type  of  a  lovely 
woman,  patient  and  hopeful,  strong  in 
feebng,  and  sustained  through  trials  by 
her  enduring  and  heroic  faith.  {Shake- 
speare:  All's  Well  that  Ends  Well.) 

Hel'ena  ( St. ).  Mother  of  Con  stantine 
the  Great.  She  is  represented  in  royal 
robes,  wearing  an  imperial  crown,  because 
she  was  empress.  Sometimes  she  carries  in 
her  hand  a  model  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre, 
an  edifice  raised  by  her  in  the  East; 
sometimes  she  bears  a  large  cross, 
tj-pical  of  her  alleged  discovery  of  that 
upon  which  the  Saviour  was  crucified  ; 
sometimes  she  also  bears  the  three  nails 
by  which  He  was  affixed  to  the  cross. 

Hel'enos.  The  prophet,  the  only 
son  of  Priam  that  survived  the  fall  of 
Troy.  He  fell  to  the  share  of  Pyrrhos 
when  the  captives  were  awarded ;  and 
because  he  saved  the  life  of  the  young 
Grecian  was  allowed  to  marry  Androm'- 
ache,  his  brother  Hector's  widow.  (  Vir- 
gil :  ^Encid.) 

Helicon.  The  Muses'  Mount.  It  is 
part  of  the  Parnassos,  a  mountain  range 
in  Greece, 


Heligh-monat 


596 


Hell  Broth 


Helicon'' s  harmonious  stream  is  the 
stream  which  flowed  from  Helicon  to  the 
fountains  of  tlie  Muses,  called  Agauii)pe 
and  Hip'pocreue  (3  syl.). 

Heligh-monat  (Holy-month).  The 
name  given  l)y  the  Auglo-Saxous  to 
Decsinber,  in  allusion  to  Christmas  Day. 

Heliop'olis,  the  City  of  the  Sun,  a 
Greek  form  of  (1)  Baalbek,  in  Syria  ; 
and  (2)  of  On,  in  ancicntEgypt,  noted  for 
its  temple  of  Actis,  called  Beth  Shcmesh 
or  Temijle  of  the  Sun,  in  Jer.  xliii.  13. 

Helios.  The  Greek  Sun-god,  who 
rode  to  his  palace  in  Colchis  every  night 
in  a  golden  boat  fundshed  with  wings. 

Heliostat.  An  instrument  by  which 
the  raj's  of  the  sun  can  be  flashed  to  great 
distances.     Used  in  signalling. 

Heliotrope  (4  syl.).  Apollo  loved 
Clj't'ie,  but  forsook  her  for  her  sister 
Leucoth'oe.  On  discoveiing  this,  Clytie 
pined  away  ;  and  Apollo  changed  her  at 
death  to  a  flower,  which,  always  turning 
towards  the  sun,  is  called  heliotrope. 
(Greek,  "  turn-to-sun.") 

V  According  to  the  poets,  heliotrope 
renders  the  bearer  invisible.  Boccaccio 
calls  it  a  stone,  but  Solinus  says  it  is  the 
herb.  "  Ut  herha  eJKsdrin  noniinis  mixta 
ct  pracantationibus  leyitimis  consrcrata, 
oitn,  <(  (iiwciiiiqiie  {/estubitiir,  siibtraliat 
rixib/ia  obviontm.''''     {Georgic,  xi.) 

"  N(i  lioiic  had  they  of  crcvic'i'  uhciv  to  liido, 
Or  hcUotruiiu  to  chanu  t  hi'iii  uur  of  view.' 
Ihitit,  :  IiiUrnu,  xxiv. 
"Tho  other  stone  is  lieliotroi  e,  vhich  ivmicrs 
thosi!  who  have  it  iiivisllile."  —  iJoccHfCio;  'lliv 
Decameron,  Novel  iii.,  Eighth  day. 

Hell.  According  to  Mohammedan 
faith,  there  are  seven  hells — • 

(1)  J;ihaiinaiii,  for  wicked  MohaiTiniedans,  all 
of  whom  will  bu  sooner  or  later  taken  to  para- 
dise  ; 

C2)  The  Flamer  (Lntlia^,  for  Christians  ; 

(S)  Tlie  Smasher  (IIiifaiiKiin,  for  .lews  j 

C-l)  The  Blazer  (Sair).  for  Sahians  ; 

(.=))  The  Si-on-hcr  'Snl.-an.  for  Jlat'ians  ; 

(•■■)  Tlie  Burner  (Jiihlin).  tor  iilolarers  ;  and 

(7)  The  Abyss  t^IIaiciyah),  for  hypocrites. 

Hell  or  Arka  of  the  Jewish  Cabal- 
ists.  divided  into  seven  lodges,  one  under 
another  (Joseph  ben  Abraham  Gika- 
tilla)— 


In  the  Buddhist  system  there  are 
13()  places  of  punishment  after  death, 
where  the  dead  are  sent  according  to  their 
degree  of  demerit.     {Sec  Eui'hemisms.) 

Hell.  This  word  occurs  eighteen 
times  in  the  New  Testament.  In  nine 
instances  the  Greek  word  is  Hades ;  in 
eight  instances  it  is  Gelienna ;  and  in 
one  it  is  Tartarus. 

Hades  :  Matt.  xi.  23,  xvi.  18 ;  Luke 
xvi.  23 ;  Acts  ii.  31 ;  1  Cor.  xv.  55  ;  Rev. 
i.  18,  vi.  8,  XX.  13,  U.     (See  Hades.) 

Gehenna  :  Matt.  v.  22,  29,  x.  28,  xiii. 
15,  xviii.  9,  xxiii.  15,  33;  James  iii.  6. 
(See  Gehenna.) 

Tartarus  :  2  Peter  ii.  4.  (See  Tae- 
taeos.) 

Descended  into  hell  (Creed)  means  the 
place  of  the  dead.  (Anglo-Saxon,  helan, 
to  cover  or  conceal,  like  the  Greek 
"  Ha'des,"  the  abode  of  the  dead,  from 
the  verb  a-eido,  not  to  see.  In- 
both  cases  it  means  "  the  unseen 
world"  or  "the  world  concealed  from 
sight."  The  god  of  this  nether  world 
was  called  "  Hades,"  by  the  Greeks,  and 
"Hel"  or  "Hela"  by  the  Scnndin- 
avians.  In  some  counties  of  England 
to  cover  in  with  a  roof  is  "to  hell  the 
building,"  and  thatchers  or  tilers  are 
termed  "helliers. " 

Ze((d  apes  in  hell.     {See  APE.) 

Hell  (Rivers  of).  Classic  authors  tell 
us  that  the  Inferno  is  encompassed  by 
Ave  rivers :  Acheron,  Cocytus,  Styx, 
Phlcggthon,  and  Lethe.  Acheron  from 
the  Greek  aehos-reo,  grief -flowing ;  Co- 
cytus, from  the  Greek  kokao,  to  weep, 
sujjposed  to  be  a  flood  of  tears  ;  Styx, 
from  the  Greek  stiig^o,  to  loathe ;  Phlege- 
thon,  from  the  Greek  phlfgo,  to  bum ; 
and  Lethe,  from  the  Greek  /c^/e,  ob- 
livion. 

Five  hatefnl  rivers  round  Inferno  run, 
Grief  comes  the  first, and  then  the  Flood  of  tears. 
Next  loathsome  Styx,  then  li'inid  Flame  appears, 
Lethe  C(jmes  last,  or  blank  oblivion.      E.  C.  i>'. 

Hell  Broth.  A  magical  mixture  pi"e- 
pared  for  evil  purposes.  The  witches  in 
Macbeth  made  it.     (See  act  iv.  1.) 


Presiding  Annel.' 
The  heat  60  times  that  of  nre.  (Here    Absalom  and  Israelites    Kushiel 
it  "  sn(iws  fire  ")  who  break  the  Law 

fin  times  hotter  than  No.  1    Doef,'  Lahatirl 

60  times  hotter  than  No.  2    Korah  Shaftiel 

60  times  hotter  than  No.  3    Jeroboam  Maccathiel 

60  times  hotter  than  No.  4    Ahab  Chntriel 

60  times  hotter  than  No.  .5    Micah  Pasiel 

60timeshotterth.anNo.fi,  Elisha,  son  of  Abuya.    Dalkiel 
or  410  times  hotter  than  lire        Sabbath-  breakers, 
idolators,    and    un- 
circumcised 
*  All  these  jiresidents  are  under  Duma,-the  Angel  of  Silence,  who  keeps  the  three  keys  of  the 
-     tliree  gates  of  hell. 


(1)  Gehennom 


(2)  The  Gates  of  Death 

(3)  The  Shadow  of  Death 

(4)  The  Pit  of  Corruption 

(5)  The  Mire  of  Clay 
(fi) A bad do u 
(7)  Sheol 


Heil  Gate 


fe97 


Helmets 


Hell  Gate.  A  dangerous  passage 
between  Great  Barn  Island  and  Long 
Island,  North  America.  The  Dutch 
settlers  of  New  York  called  it  Hoell- 
gat  (whirling-gut)  corrupted  into  Hell- 
gate.  Flood  Rock,  its  most  dangerous 
reef,  has  been  blown  up  by  U.S.  en- 
gineers. 

Hell  Gates,  according  to  Milton,  are 
nine-fold— three  of  brass,  three  of  iron, 
and  three  of  adamant ;  the  keepers  are 
Sin  and  Death.  This  allegory  is  one  of 
the  most  celebrated  passages  of  Faradise 
Lost.     (See  book  ii.  643-676.) 

Hell  Kettles.  Cavities  three  miles 
long,  at  Oxeu-le-Field,  Durham.  A,  B, 
C  communicate  with  each  other,  dia- 
meter, about  38  yards.  The  diameter 
of  D,  a  separate  cave,  is  about  28  yards. 

A  is  19  feet  6  inches  in  depth. 

B  is  14  feet  in  depth. 

C  is  17  feet  in  depth. 

D  is  5  feet  6  inches  in  depth. 
(See  Xo/cs  and  Queries,  August  21, 1875.) 

Hell  Shoon.  Tn  Icelandic  mythology, 
indispensable  for  the  journey  to  Valhalla 
as  the  obolus  for  crossing  the  Styx. 

Hell  or  Connaugbt  (To).  This 
phrase,  usually  attributed  to  Cromwell, 
and  common  to  the  whole  of  Ireland, 
rose  thus  :  When  the  settlers  designed 
for  Ireland  asked  the  officers  of  James 
I.  where  they  were  to  go,  they  were 
answered  "to  Hell  or  Connaught,"  go 
where  you  like  or  where  you  may,  but 
don't  bother  me  about  the  matter. 

Hellanod'icse.  Umpires  of  the  public 
games  in  (ireece.  They  might  chastise 
•with  a  stick  anyone  who  created  a  dis- 
turbance. Lichas,  a  Spartan  nobleman, 
was  so  punished  by  them. 

Helle'nes  (3  syl.).  "This  word  had 
in  Palestine  three  several  meanings : 
Sometimes  it  designated  the  pagans ; 
sometimes  the'Jews,  speaking  Greek,  and 
dwelling  among  the  pagans  ;  and  some- 
times proselytes  of  the  gate,  that  is,  men 
of  pagan  origin  converted  to  Judaism,  but 
not  circumcised  "  (John  vii.  35,  xii.  20; 
Acts  xiv.  1,  xvii.  4,  xviii.  4,  xxi.  28). 
(Renan  :  Zifc  of  Jcsiis,  xiv.) 

N.B.  The  present  Greeks  call  them- 
selves "Helle'nes,"  and  the  king  is 
termed  "  King  of  the  Helle'nes."  The 
ancient  Greeks  called  their  country 
"Hellas;"  it  was  the  Romans  who 
misnamed  it  "  Grsecia." 

"The  first  and  truest  Hellas,  the  mother-land  of 
all  Hellenes,  was  the  land  which  we  call  Greece, 
with  the  islands  round  about  it.  There  alone  the 
whole  land  was  C-;reek,and  none  but  Hellenes  lived 
iu  it," —Freeman:  Genei-al  Sketch,  chap.  ii.  p.  21. 


Helle'nic.  The  common  dialect  of 
the  Greek  writers  after  the  age  of  Alex- 
ander.    It  was  based  on  the  Attic. 

Hellenis'tic.  The  dialect  of  the 
Greek  language  used  by  the  Jews.  It  was 
full  of  Oriental  idioms  and  metaphors. 

Hell'enists.  Those  Jews  who  used 
the  Greek  or  Helle'nic  language.  (All 
these  four  words  are  derived  from  Hellas, 
in  Thessaly,  the  cradle  of  the  race.) 

Hellespont  (3  syl.),  now  called  the 
Dardanelles,  means  the  "sea  of  Helle," 
and  was  so  called  because  Helle,  the 
sister  of  Phryxos,  was  drowned  there. 
She  was  fleeing  with  her  brother  through 
the  air  to  Colchis  on  the  golden  ram  to 
escape  from  Ino,  her  mother-in-law,  who 
most  cruelly  oppressed  her,  but  turning 
giddy,  she  fell  into  the  sea. 

Helmet,  in  heraldry,  resting  on  the 
chief  of  the  shield,  and  bearing  the  crest, 
indicates  rank. 

Gohl,  with  six  bars,  or  with  the  visor  raised  (in  full 

face)  for  royalty  ! 
Steel,  vith  doUl  /<i(j-.<f,varying  in  number  (in  profllc) 

foranohli'Mian  ; 
Steel,  witliniit  /i(i;-.s,  (ind  loith  visor  open  (in  i  rofllo) 

for  a  kiiiKhl  or  baronet ; 
Steel,  with  visor  closed  (in  profile),  for  a  squire  or 

gentleman. 
•.•  "The  pointed  helmet  in  the  bas-reliefs  from 
the  earliest  palace  of  Nimroud  appears  to  have 
lieen  the  nmst  ancient ,Sev<^ral  were  dis- 
covered in  tlic^  niiiis.  They  were  iron,  and  the 
rin'-'S  vvliirh  ornamented  the  lower  part  .  .  .  were 
inlaid  wilh  copper." —  i(ii/rtr<(;  Nivevch  and  its 
Iteiniuns,  vol.  ii.  part  ii.  chap.  iv.  P.2B2. 

Helmets.  Those  of  Saragossa  were 
most  in  repute  in  the  days  of  chivalry. 

dose  helmet.  The  complete  Iiead-piece, 
haraig  in  front  two  movable  parts, 
which  could  be  lifted  up  or  let  down  at 
pleasure. 

Visor.  One  of  the  movable  j)ai'ts ;  it 
was  to  look  through. 

Jieeer,  or  drinkixfi-pieee.  One  of  the 
movable  parts,  which  was  lifted  up  when 
the  wearer  ate  or  drank.  It  comes  from 
the  Italian  verb  hcrcre  (to  drink). 

Mo'rioii.  A  low  iron  cap,  worn  only 
by  infantry. 

iLahomeVs  helmet.  Mahomet  wore  a 
double  helmet ;  the  exterior  one  was 
called  al  maicashah  (the  wreathed  gar- 
land). 

2'he  helmet  of  Perseus  (2  syl.)  rendered 
the  wearer  invisible.  This  was  the 
"  helmet  of  Ha'des,"  which,  with  the 
winged  sandals  and  magic  wallet,  ho 
took  from  certain  nymphs  who  held 
them  in  possession  ;  but  after  he  had 
slain  Medusa  he  restored  them  again, 
and  presented  the  Gorgon's  head  to 
Athe'na  [Minerva],  who  placed  it  in  the 
middle  of  her  regis. 


jEelon 


59S 


Henricans 


He'lon,  in  the  satire  of  Absalom  and 
Achitoplicl,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  is 
meant  for  the  Earl  of  Feversham. 

Helot.'  A  slave  in  ancient  Siiarta. 
Hence,  a  slave  or  serf. 

Help.    (American.)    A  hired  servant. 

Helter-skelter.  Higgledy-xiiggledy ; 
in  hurry  and  confusion.  Tlie  Latin 
hilariter-ccleriter  comes  tolerably  near 
the  meaning  of  post-haste,  as  Shake- 
speare uses  the  expression  (2  Henry 
/;-.,  v.  3):— 

"  Sir  Jobn,  I  am  thy  Pi.stol  and  tliy  friend, 
And  I'elter-skeltcrliave  1  rode  to  tbeo, 
I      And  tidings  do  I  bring." 

Helve.  To  tJirotv  the  helve  after  the 
]i((tclu't.  To  be  reckless,  to  throw  away 
what  remains  because  your  losses  have 
been  so  great.  The  alhision  is  to  the 
fable  of  the  wood-cutter  who  lost  the 
head  of  his  axe  in  a  river  and  threw  tlie 
handle  in  after  it. 

Helve'tia.  Switzerland.  So  called 
from  tlie  Helvc'tii,  a  powerfu'l  Celtic 
people  who  dwelt  thereabouts. 

"  See  from  tlip  asties  of  Hflvotia's  i>no 
The  whitened  skull  of  old  Serve'tiis  smile. " 
Holims. 

Hemp.  To  have  some  hemp  in  your 
poch't.  To  have  luclc  on  your  side  in 
the  most  adverse  circumstances.  The 
phrase  is  French  {Avoir  tie  la  eorde-de- 
■penciu  dans  sa  poche),  referring  to  the 
popular  notion  that  hemp  brings  good 
luck. 

Hempc  (1  syl.).  IFhoi  hempe  is  spun 
Enghoid  is  done.  Lord  Bacon  says  lie 
heard  the  prophecy  when  he  was  a  child, 
and  lie  interpreted  it  thus :  Hempe  is 
composed  of  the  initial  letters  of  J/enry, 
i'dward,  iJ/ary,  Philip,  and  islizabeth. 
At  the  close  of  the  last  reign  "  England 
was  done,"  for  the  sovereign  no  longei" 
styled  himself  "King  of  England,"  but 
"King  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland." 

(iS'(<?  NOTARICA.) 

Hempen  Caudle.  A  hangman's 
rope. 

"  Ye  shall  have  a  hempen  eaudlo  then,  ami  the 
hell)  ot  a  hatchet."— .«/!rttes/)e«re ;  2  Ilcn.  17.,  iv.  7. 

Hempen  Collar  {A).  The  hang- 
man's rope.     In  French :  "i«  cravate  de 

chai/vre.'" 

Hempen  Fever.  Death  on  the 
gallows,  the  rope  being  made  of  hemp. 

Hempen  Widow.    The  widow  of  a 
man  who  has  been  hanged.     (See  above.) 
"  Of  ahemren  widow  the  kid  forlorn." 

Ainsirorth :  Jack  Slifjipard. 

He'mus  or  Haemus.  A  chain  of 
mountains    in  Thrace.      According   to 


mythology,  HiBmos,  son  of  Bo'reas,  was 
clianged  into  a  mouutain  for  aspiring  to 
divine  honours. 

Hen-pecked.  A  man  who  submits 
to  be  snubbed  by  his  wife. 

Hen  and  Chickens  (in  Chri.stiau 
art),  embleiuatical  of  God's  providence. 
{See  St.  Matthew  xxiii.  37.) 

A  whistling  maid  and  erowing  hen  is 
neither  Jit  for  God  nor  men.  A  whistling 
maid  means  a  witch,  who  whistles  like 
the  Lapland  witches  to  call  up  Ihe  winds ; 
they  were  supposed  to  be  in  league  with 
the  devil.  The  crowing  of  a  hen  was 
supposed  to  forbode  a  death.  The  usual 
interpretation  is  that  masculine  qualities 
in  females  are  undesirable. 

Hen  with  one  Chick.  As  fassy  as 
a  hen  icith  one  ehick.  Over-anxious 
about  small  matters ;  over-particular 
and  fussy.  A  hen  with  one  cliick  is  for 
ever  clucking  it,  and  never  leaves  it  in 
iudopendence  a  single  moment. 

Henchman.  Henchhoy.  Tlie  Anglo- 
Saxon  hi>ic  is  a  servant  or  page  ;  or 
perhaps  henges-man,  a  horse-man  ;  hengci 
or  hengst,  a  horse. 

"  I  do  Imt  hen  a  little  ehangeling  hoy 
To  lie  my  henchman." 
Shnkesiciiie:  Midiiuminer  Night's  Dream,  ii.  1. 

Hengist  and  Horsa.  German,  hengst 
(a  stallion) ,  and  Horsa  is  connected  with 
our  Anglo-Saxon  word  hors  (horse).  If 
the  names  of  two  brothers,  probably 
they  were  given  them  from  the  devices 
borne  on  their  arms. 

According  to  tradition,  they  landed  in 
Pegwell  Bay,  Kent. 

Henna.  The  Persian  ladies  tinge  the 
tips  of  their  fingers  with  henna  to  make 
them  a  reddi.sh-3-ellow. 

"  The  leaf  of  the  henn.a-iilnnt  resembles  that  of 
tlie  myrtle.  The  blossom  has  a  rowtrful  frag- 
rance ;  it  grows  like  a  feather  about  ih  inclies 
long,  forming  a  cluster  of  small  yellow  Howers." 
—  ISaker:    Nile  Tribe-'',  AOyssinia,  chap.  i.  i>.  3. 

Henneherg  ( Coiodess)  .One  day  a  beg- 
gar woman  asked  alms  of  the  Countess; 
who  twitted  the  beggar  for  carrying 
twins.  The  woman,  furious  with  pas- 
sion, cursed  the  Countess  with  the  assur- 
ance that  she  should  become  the  mother 
of  3G.5  children.  The  tradition  is  that 
the  Countess  had  this  nimiber  all  at  one 
parturition.  All  the  boys  were  named 
John  and  all  the  girls  Elizabeth.  The 
story  says  they  all  died  on  the  day  of 
their  birth,  and  were  buried  at  Hague. 

Hen'ricans  or  Henricians.  A  reli- 
gious sect ;  so  called  from  Henri'cus,  its 
founder,  an  Italian  monk,  who,  in  the 
twelfth  century,   undertook  to   reform 


Henriette 


59t) 


Herba   Sacra 


the  vices  of  the  clergy.  He  rejected 
iufaut  baptism,  festivals,  and  ceremonies. 
Henriciis  was  imprisoned  by  Pope  Eu- 
ge'uius  III.  in  1118. 

Henriette  (3  syl.),  in  tlie  French  lan- 
guage, means  "a  perfect  woman. "  The 
character  is  from  Moliere's  Fcniiiics  i>a- 
r  antes. 

Henry  (Poor),  a  touching  tale  in 
poetry  by  Hartmann  von  der  Anr  [  Oiirl , 
one  of  the  minnesingers  (12th  century). 
Henry,  prince  of  Hoheneck,  in  Bavaria, 
being  struck  with  leprosy,  was  told  that 
he  never  would  be  healed  till  a  spotless 
maiden  volunteered  to  die  on  his  behalf. 
Prince  Henry,  never  expecting  to  meet 
with  such  a  victim,  sold  most  of  his 
possessions,  and  went  to  live  in  the  cot- 
tnge  of  a  small  tenant  farmer.  Here 
Elsie,  the  farmer's  daughter,  waited  on 
him ;  and,  hearing  the  condition  of  his 
ciu'e,  offered  herself,  and  went  to  Salerno 
to  complete  the  sacrifice.  Prince  Henry 
accompanied  her,  was  cured,  and  married 
Elsie,  who  thus  became  Lady  Alicia, 
wife  of  Prince  Henry  of  Hoheneck. 

Henry  Grace  de  Dieu.  The  largest 
ship  built  by  Henry  VIII.  It  carried  72 
guns,  TOO  men,  and  was  1,000  tons  bur- 
then.    (.SVv  Great  Hakry.) 

Hephass'tos.    The  Greek  Vulcan. 

Heptarchy  (Greek  for  seirn  govern- 
ivriits).  The  Saxon  llcpidrchu  is  the 
division  of  England  into  seven  parts, 
each  of  wliich  had  a  separate  ruler : 
as  Kent,  Sussex,  Wessex,  Essex,  East 
Anglia,  Mercia,  and  Northumbria. 

He'ra.  The  Greek  Juno,  the  wife  of 
Zeus.  (The  word  means  "chosen  one," 
halrco.) 

Heraclei'dfG  (4  syl.).  The  descend- 
ants of  Her'acle.5  (Latin,  Hercules). 

Heralds.  (Anglo  -  Saxon  here  (2 
F.yl.),  an  army,  and  ealdor,  a  governor  or 
official. 

The  coat  of  arms  represents  the  knight 
liimself  from  whom  the  bearer  is  de- 
scended. 

The  sh  ielcl  represents  his  body,  and  the 
helmet  his  head. 

'Y\\Q  flourish  is  his  mantle. 

The  motto  is  the  gi-ouud  or  moral  pre- 
tension on  which  he  stands. 

The  supporters  are  the  pages,  desig- 
nated bj'^  the  emblems  of  bears,  lions, 
and  so  on. 

Herald's  College  consists  of  three 
kiugs-of-arms,  six  heralds,  and  four 
pursuivants.  The  head  of  the  college 
is  called  the  Earl  Marshal  of  England. 


The  three  Icings-of-arms  are  Garter 
{blue),  Clarencieux  and  Norroy  {purpk). 

The  six  heralds  are  styled  Somerset, 
Richmond,  Lancaster,  Windsor,  Cliester, 
and  York. 

The  four  purnvirants  areRouge  Dragon, 
Blue  Mantle,  Portcullis,  and  Rouge  Croix. 

Garter  King-of-arms  is  so  called 
from  his  special  duty  to  attend  at  the 
solemnities  of  election,  investiture,  and 
installation  of  Knights  of  the  Garter. 

Clarencieux  King  -  of  -  arms.  So 
called  from  the  Duke  of  Clarence, 
brother  of  Edward  IV.  His  duty  is  to 
marshal  and  dispose  the  funerals  of 
knights  on  the  south  side  of  tlie  Trent. 

Norroy  King-of-arms  has  similar 
jurisdiction  to  Clarencieux,  only  on  the 
north  side  of  the  Trent. 

"  Tliere  is  a  supplementary  lieralil,  called  '  Kith 
KiiiK  of  Arms,'  wlin  lias  no  seat  in  tlie  college. 
His  duty  is  to  attend  at  the  election  of  a  knib'lit 
of  the  Bath." 

H  In  Scotland  the  heraldic  college  con- 
sists of  Lyon  King-of-arms,  six  heralds, 
and  five  pursuivants. 

^f  In  Ireland  it  consists  of  Ulster 
King-of-arms,  two  heralds,  and  two 
Xnirsuivants. 

Heraldic  Colours.     {See  Jewels.) 

Herb.  Many  herbs  are  used  for  cura- 
tive pui-poses  simply  because  of  their 
form  or  marks :  thus,  wood-sorrel,  being 
shajjed  like  a  heart,  is  used  as  a  cordial ; 
liver- wort  for  the  lirer ;  the  celandine, 
which  has  yellow  juice,  for  the  Jaundice  ; 
herb-dragon,  which  is  speckled  like  a 
dragon,  to  counteract  the  poison  of 
serpents,  etc. 

Herb  of  Grace.  Rue  is  so  called 
because  of  its  use  in  exorcism,  and 
hence  the  Roman  Catholics  sprinkle 
holy  water  v/ith  a  bunch  of  rue.  It 
was  for  centuries  supposed  to  prevent 
contagion.  Rue  is  the  Gennan  raute  • 
Greek,  rule  :  Latin,  rufa,  meaning  the 
"preserver,"  being  a  preservative  of 
health  (Greek,  ruo,  to  preserve) .  Ophelia 
calls  it  the  "  Herb  of  Grace  o'  Sundays." 

Herb  Trinity.  The  botanical  name 
is  Viola  tricolor.  The  word  tricolor 
explains  why  it  is  called  the  Herb 
Trinity.  It  also  explains  the  pet  name 
of  "  Three-faces-under-a-hood  ;  "  but 
the  very  markings  of  the  jiansy  resemble 
the  name.  {See  Heart's  Ease  and 
Pansy.) 

Herba  Sacra.  The  "  divine  weed," 
vervain,  said  by  the  old  Romans  to  cure 
the  bites  of  all  rabid  animals,  to  arrest 


Hercules 


600 


Hercules  SecunduS 


the  progress  of  venom,  to  cure  the  plague, 
to  avert  sorcery  aud  witchcraft,  to  re- 
concile enemies,  etc.  So  highly  esteemed 
was  it  that  feasts  called  Vcrbotalia  were 
annually  held  in  its  honour.  Heralds 
wore  a  wreath  of  vervain  when  they 
declared  war ;  and  the  Druids  held  ver- 
vain in  similar  veneration. 

"  Lift  your  lionplis  of  vervain  Ijlue, 
Dipt  in  cdld  Septenilier  dew  ; 
;         Anil  (liis-li  tlie  moisture,  chaste  anil  dear, 

O'er  the  gruund,  and  through  the  air. 
'^-       Now  the  place  is  purged  and  pure." 

Mason. 

Hercules  (3  syL),  in  .astronomy,  a 
large  northern  constellation. 

"  Those  stars  in  the  neii-'lilioiirlioad  of  Hercules 
are  mostly  fmind  to  )>r  apiiniiKiiini.'  tlic  cnrtli, 
and  those  which  lie  in  Ihr  niii.dsiti-  dirccticin  to 
be  receding  from  \l."—Xiirc(iiiib :  I'opaiar  At,tiu- 
tiumt/,  larl  iv.  chap.  i.  p.  -JoS. 

Her'cules  (3  syl.).  A  Grecian  hero, 
possessed  of  the  utmost  amount  of 
physical  strength  and  vigour  that  the 
human  frame  is  capable  of.  He  is  re- 
presented as  brawny,  muscular,  short- 
necked,  and  of  huge  proportions.  The 
P^'thian  told  him  if  he  would  servo 
Eurys'theus  for  twelve  years  he  should 
become  immortal ;  accordingly  he  bound 
himself  to  the  Aj-give  king,  who  imposed 
upon  him  twelve  tasks  of  great  difficulty 
and  danger : 

(1)  To  slay  the  Nem'ean  Hon. 

(2)  To  kill  the  Ler'ueau  hycba. 

(3)  To  catch  and  retain  the  Arca'dian 
stag. 

(4)  To  destroythe  ErjTnan'thian  bnar. 
(o)    To   cleanse   the   stables   of    King 

Au'geas. 

(6)    To  destroy  the  cannibal  birds  of 
the  Lake  Stympha'lis. 
•    (7)  To  take  captive  the  Cretan  bull. 
_  (8)  To  catch  the  horses  of  the  Thra- 
cian  Diome'des. 

(9)  To  get  possession  of  the  girdle  of 
Hippol'yte,  Queen  of  the  Amazons. 

(10)  To  take  captive  the  oxen  of  the 
monster  Ger'yon. 

(11)  To  get  possession  of  the  apples  of 
the  Hesper'ides. 

(12)  To  bring  up  from  the  infernal 
regions  the  three-lieaded  dog  Cerberos. 

The  Nem'ean   Hon  first  he  killed,  then  Lernes 

hydra  slew  ; 
Th'  Arca'dian    staa  and  monster    boar  before 

Eurys'theus  drew  ; 
Cleansed  Au'geas'  stallK.  and  made  the  birds 

fnnn  Lake  Stympha'lis  flee  ; 
The  Cretan  bull,  and  Thracian  mores,  first  seized 

and  then  set  free  ; 
Took  prize  the  Amazo'nian  belt,  brought  Gcr'- 

yon's  kine  from  Ciades  ; 
Fetched  applet:  from  the  Hesperii'.es  and  Cer'- 

beros  from  Hades.  .         E.C.li. 

The  Attic  Hercules.  Theseus  (2  syl.), 
■who  went  about  like  Hercules,  his  great 


contemporary,  destroying  robbers  and 
achieving  wondrous  exploits. 

'The  Ti.<j\ipt%an  Jlerciiles.  Sesostris. 
(Flourished  B.C.  loOO.) 

'The  Farnc'ne  Ifcrriiles.  A  celebrated 
work  of  art,  copied  by  Glykon  from  an 
original  by  Lysippos.  It  exhibits  the 
hero,  exhausted  by  toil,  leaning  upon  his 
club  ;  his  left  hand  rests  upon  his  back, 
and  grasps  one  of  the  a])ples  of  the  Hes- 
pei'i'des.  A  copy  of  tliis  famous  statue 
stands  in  the  gardens  of  the  Tuileries, 
Paris ;  but  Glykon's  statue  is  in  the 
Farnese  Palace  at  Eome.  A  beautiful 
description  of  this  statue  is  given  by 
Thomson  {Lihriii/,  iv.). 

The  Jncish  Hercules.  Samson.  (Died 
B.C.  1113.) 

Hercules'  Choice.  Immortality  the 
reward  of  toil  in  jireference  to  pleasure. 
Xenophon  tells  us  when  Hercules  was  a 
youth  he  was  accosted  by  two  womcTi — 
— Virtue  and  Pleasure — and  asked  to 
choose  between  them.  Pleasure  pro- 
mised him  all  carnal  delights,  but  Virtue 
promised  immortality.  Hercules  gave 
his  hand  to  the  latter,  and,  after  a  life 
of  toil,  was  received  amongst  the  gods. 

Hercules'  Club.  A  stick  of  unusual 
size  and  formidable  appearance. 

Hercules'  Horse.  Ari'on,  given  him 
\)y  Adras'tos.  It  had  the  power  of  speech, 
and  its  feet  on  the  right  side  were  those 
of  a  man.     {Sec  Hoese.) 

Hercules'  Labour  or  The  hdxmr  of 
ail  Hercules.  Very  great  toil.  Hercules 
was  appointed  by  Eury.stheus  (3  .syl.) 
to  perform  twelve  labours  requiring 
enormous  strength  or  dexterity. 

"It  was  more  than  the  labour  of  an  Hercules 
could  effect  to  make  any  tiderable  way  through 
your  tuwn."— Cumberland:  The  Most  Indian. 

Hercules'  Pillars.  Calpe  and  Ab'yla, 
one  at  Gibraltar  and  one  at  Ceuta,  torn 
asunder  by  Hercules  that  the  waters  of 
the  Atlantic  and  the  Mediterranean  Sea 
might  communicate  with  each  other. 
Macro'bius  ascribes  these  pillars  to  Ses- 
ostris (the  Egyjitiau  Hercules),  and 
Lucan  follows  the  same  tradition. 

/  iciU  follow  you  even  to  the  pUhirs  of 
Hercules.  To  the  end  of  the  workf. 
The  ancients  supposed  that  these  rocks 
marked  the  utmost  limits  of  the  habit- 
able globe.  {See  above,  Hercules' 
Pillars.) 

Hercules  Secundus.  Com'modus, 
the  Roman  Emperor,  gave  himself  this 
title.  He  was  a  gigantic  idiot,  of  whom 
it  is  said  that  he  killed  lUO  lions  in  the 
amphitheatre,  and  gave  none  of  them 


Hercules 


601 


Hermaplirodite 


more  than  one  blow.    He  also  overthrew 
1,000  gladiators.     (161,  ISO-ID'i.) 

Hercules  of  Music  {2'he).  Chris- 
topher Gliick  (1714-17S7). 

Herculean  Knot.  A  snaky  com- 
plication on  tlie  rod  or  cadu'ceus  of  Mer- 
cury, adopted  by  tlie  Grecian  brides  as 
the  fastening  of  their  woollen  girdles, 
which  only  the  bridegroom  was  allowed 
to  untie  when  tbe  bride  retired  for  the 
night.  As  he  did  so  he  invoked  Juno 
to  render  his  marriage  as  fecund  as  that 
of  Hercules,  whose  numerous  wives  all 
had  families,  amongst  them  being  the 
fifty  daughters  of  Thestius,  each  of  whom 
conceived  in  one  night.     {Sec  Knot.) 

Hereford  (3  syl.).  (Anglo-Saxon, 
lierc-ford,  army  ford.) 

Herefordshire  Kindness.  A  good 
turn  rendered  for  a  good  turn  received. 
Latin  proverbs,  '■'■  Fricantcni  rcfrica  ,•  " 
"  JfiiUH.s  inaintm  lavat.'^  Fuller  says  the 
people  of  Herefordshire  ' '  drink  back  to 
him  who  drinks  to  them." 

Heretic  means  "one  who  chooses," 
and  Jicrrsy  means  simply  "  a  choice."  A 
heretic  is  one  who  chooses  his  own  creed, 
and  does  not  adopt  the  creed  authorised 
by  the  national  church.  (Greek,  hairesis, 
choice.) 

Heretics  of  the  First  Cfntury  were 
the  Siino'iiiaiix  (so  called  from  Simon 
Magus),  fVT(«7/;/i7«\  (Cerintlius),  Eb'ion- 
itt's  (Eb'ion),  and  Xicola'itans  (Nicholas, 
deacon  of  Antioch). 

Second  Century  :  The  BasUid'ians 
(Basil'ides),  Carpui'rd'tiinis  (Carpoc' ra- 
tes), Vdltntii/'uiHs  (Valenti'uus),  (iiiostics 
(Knowing  Ones),  Kazarc'ncs,  Millrnn'- 
riaiis,  Cavi'ites  (Cain),  Sr(/i'iaiis  (Seth), 
Qiui)iod(T>iiini/s  (wlio  kept  Easter  on  the 
fourteenth  day  of  the  first  month) ,  Cn'- 
do'  i/i  Kiis{Gerflon) , )[(( r'  cioii  i  t('s(M.av'  cion), 
Moi/fd'i/ist.s (Montii'nus),  Tti'tiaiiistf:{Ta'- 
tian) ,  A  lofi'unis  (who  denied  the '  'Word' ' ), 
Artvtji' rites  (q.i:),  and  Anyel'ks  (who 
worshipped  angels). 

*.'  Tatianists  belong  to  the  third  or 
fourth  century.  The  Tatian  of  the 
second  century  was  a  Platonic  philo- 
sopher who  wrote  Discourses  in  good 
Greek  ;  Tatian  the  heretic  lived  in 
the  third  or  fourth  century,  and  wrote 
very  bad  Greek.  The  two  men  were 
•widely  different  in  every  respect,  and 
the  authority  of  the  heretic  for  "four 
gospels  "  is  of  no  worth. 

Third  Century:  The  rnVri-passicois, 
Arah'aci,  Aqiin'rians,  Xoni'tiaiis,  ()r'i(/eu- 
ists  (followers  of  Origen),  j][elc/iisedech'- 
'ians  (who  believed  Melchis'edec  was  the 


Messiah),  SahcUians  (from  Sabel'lius), 
and  M(i)iiche''j)is  (followers  of  Mani). 

Fourth  Century  :  The  A'rians  (from 
Arius),  CollHth'iiDis  (Collu'thus),  Macc- 
dn'uiaiis,  Aipic'tw,  ApoUina'riaus  (Apol- 
lina'ris),  Timo'thcfots  (Timothy,  the 
apostle),  CMIijrid'KOis  (who  ottered  cakes 
to  the  Virgin  Mary),  Mrn'cians  (Seleu'- 
cius),  I'riscilliaiis  (Priscillian),^-/«//(j'o/JO- 
viorphites  (wlio  ascribed  to  God  a  human 
form),  Jovin'iduists  (Jovin'ian),  Messa'- 
lians,  and  Bo)iosiin>s  (Bono'sus). 

Fifth  Century  :  The  Prht'nians  (Pe- 
la'gius),  Xesto'rians  (Nesto'rius),  Eiitych'- 
iiius  (Eu'tychus),  Thco-paschites  (who 
said  all  the  three  persons  of  the  Trinity 
suffered  on  the  cross). 

Sixth  Century  :  The  Frcdcstina'rians, 
Iiicorrifp'iihilists  (who  maintained  that 
the  body  of  Christ  was  incorruptible), 
the  new  Aeinoe' tee  (who  maintained  that 
Christ  did  not  know  when  the  day  of 
judgment  would  take  place),  and  the 
Monoth'cJites  (who  maintained  that 
Christ  had  but  one  will). 

Her'iot.  A  right  of  the  lord  of  a 
manor  to  the  best  jewel,  beast,  or  chattel 
of  a  deceased  copyhold  tenant.  The  word 
is  compounded  of  the  Saxon  here  (army), 
ffcatii  (gi'ant),  because  originally  it  was 
military  furniture,  such  as  ai'Uiour,  arms, 
and  liorses  paid  to  the  lord  of  the  fee. 
[Canute,  c.  09.) 

Hermse.  Busts  of  the  god  Hermes 
affixed  to  a  quadrangular  stone  pillar, 
diminishing  towards  the  ba'^e,  and  be- 
tween five  and  six  feet  in  height.  They 
were  set  up  to  mark  the  boundaries  of 
lands,  at  the  junction  of  roads,  at  the 
corners  of  streets,  and  so  on.  The  Romans 
used  them  also  for  garden  decorations. 
In  later  times  the  block  was  more  or 
less  chiselled  into  legs  and  arms. 

Hermaph'rodite  (4  syl.).  A  human 
body  having  both  sexes  :  a  vehicle  com- 
bining the  structure  of  a  wagon  and 
cart ;  a  flower  containing  both  the  male 
and  female  organs  of  reproduction.  The 
word  is  derived  from  tlie  fable  of  Her- 
mapli'rodi'tus,  son  of  HerTues  and  Aph'- 
rodito.  The  nymph  Sal'macis  became 
enamoured  of  him,  and  prayed  that  she 
might  be  so  closely  united  that  "  the 
twain  might  become  one  flesh."  Her 
prayer  being  hoard,  the  nymph  and  boy 
became  one  body.  {Ovid:  Me'.amor- 
phoses.  iv.  847.) 

"  The  Romans  believed  that  there 
were  human  beiugs  combining  in  one 
body  both  sexes.  The  Jewish  Talmud 
contains  several  references  to  them.  An 
old  French    law    allowed    them    great 


Hermegyld 


602 


Hero 


Jatitude.  The  English  law  recognises 
them.  The  aucient  Athenians  com- 
manded that  they  should  be  put  to 
death.  The  Hiudfts  and  Chinese  enact 
that  every  hermaphrodite  should  choose 
one  Fcx  and  keep  to  it.  According  to 
fable,  all  persons  who  bathed  in  the 
fountain  Salmacis,  in  Caria,  became 
hermaphrodites. 

Rome  think  by  cninimvinffRpn.  i.  L'7  with  fleii.  ii. 
2n-:;l  that  Adam  at  t1r.-it  couiljincJ  in  himself  Imth 

.    Hermegyld  or  Hermyngyld.    The 

."wife  of  the  constable  of  Northumberland, 
who  was  converted  to  Christianity  by 
Cunstance,  by  whose  bidding  she  restored 
sight  to  a  blind  Briton,  {Chaucer ;  Man 
of  Laurs  Tale.) 

Her'mensul  or  Ermensul.  A  Saxon 
deity,  worshi])ped  in  Westpha'lia.  Char- 
lemagne broke  the  idol,  and  converted 
its  temple  into  a  Christian  church.  The 
statue  stood  on  a  column,  holding  a 
standard  in  one  hand,  and  a  balance  in 
the  other.  On  its  breast  was  the  figure 
of  a  bear,  and  on  its  shield  a  lion.  Prob- 
ably it  was  a  war-god. 

Her'mes  (2  syl.).  The  Greek  Mer- 
cury ;  cither  the  god  or  the  metal. 

"  So  wlieii  we  see  tlie  liquid  metal  fall 
"Whieb  chemists  liy  the  name  of  Hevmei;  call." 
Iloole :  Ariosto,  lio..k  viii. 

Milton  (Paradise  Lost,  iii.  G03)  calls 
quicksilver  "  Volatil  Hermes." 

Hermetic  Art.  The  art  or  science 
of  alchemy  ;  so  called  from  the  Chaldean 
philosopher,  Hennes  Trismegis'tus,  its 
hyiJothetical  founder.     , 

Hermet'ic  Books.  Egyptian  books 
■written  inider  the  dictation  of  Thoth 
(the  Eg^-ptian  Hermes),  the  scribe  of  the 
gods.  lamblichus  gives  their  number 
as  20,000,  but  Man'etho  raises  it  to 
36,525.  These  books  state  that  the 
world  was  made  out  of  fluid  ;  that  the 
soul  is  the  union  of  light  and  life  ;  that 
nothing  is  destructible ;  that  the  soul 
transmigrates  ;  and  that  suffering  is  the 
result  of  motion. 

Hermet'ic  Philosophy.  A  system 
which  acknowledges  only  three  chemical 
principles — viz.  salt,  sulphur,  and  mer- 
cury-from  which  it  explains  every 
phenomenon  of  nature.     (dV-t;  Hermes.) 

Hermetic  Powder.  The  sympa- 
thetic jiowder,  su]iposed  to  possess  a 
healing  influence  from  a  distance.  The 
medieval  philosophers  were  very  fond  of 
calling  books,  drugs,  etc.,  connected 
with  alchemy  and  astrology  by  the  term 
hermetic,  out  of  compliment  to  Hermes 


Trismegis'tus.  (Sir  Keuclin  Diphi/  :  Dis- 
course Concerning  the  Cure  of  Wounds  by 
>Si/iiipath;/.) 

"  For  by  his  side  a  pouch  he  wore 
Replete  with  stranije  liernietic  pow  Icr, 
That   wouiuls   nine   miles   ii.)int-M-uik   would 
Holder."  UatUr:  JludiOriiti.  i. -J. 

Hermetically  Sealed.  Closed 
securely.  Thus  we  say,  "My  lips  are 
hermetically  sealed,"  meaning  so  as  not 
to  utter  a  word  of  what  has  been  im- 
parted. The  French  say  closc-fittinff 
doors  and  windows  "shut  hemietically. " 
When  chemists  want  to  preserve  any- 
thing from  the  air,  they  heat  the  neck 
of  the  vessel  till  it  is  soft,  aiul  then 
twist  it  till  the  aperture  is  closed  up. 
This  is  called  sealing  the  vessel  her- 
metically, or  like  a  chemist.  (From 
Hermes,  called  Trismegistus,  or  Ihrice- 
great,  the  sujiposed  inventor  of  che- 
mistrj'.) 

Her'mla.  Daughter  of  Egeus,  who 
betrothed  lier  to  Deme'trius ;  but  she 
refused  to  many  him,  as  she  was  in  love 
with  Lysander.  {Shakespeare :  Mid- 
summer Xif/hfs  Dream.) 

Hermi'onc  (1  syl.).  Wife  of  Leontes, 
King  of  Silicia.  Being  sus^pected  of 
infidelity,  she  was  thrown  into  jail, 
swooned,  and  was  reported  to  be  dead. 
She  was  kept  concealed  till  her  infant 
Per'dita  was  of  marriageable  age,  when 
Leontes  discovered  his  mistake,  and  was 
reconciled  to  his  wife.  (Shakespeare : 
Jf'i)iter^s  Tale.) 

Hermit  ( The  English) .  Roger  Crab, 
He  subsisted  at  the  expense  of  three 
farthings  a  week,  or  3s.  3d.  per  annum. 
His  food  consisted  of  bran,  herbs,  roots, 
dock-leaves,  mallows,  and  grass.  Crab 
died  in  1680. 

Hermit.  Peter  the  TTcrmit.  Preacher 
of  the  first  crusade.     (1050-1115.) 

Hermite  (2  syl.).  Tristrem  VHermife 
or  -SV;-  Tristan  VErmite.  Provost- 
marshal  of  Louis  XI.  He  was  the  main 
instrument  iu  carrying  into  effect  the 
nefarious  schemes  of  his  wily  master, 
who  used  to  call  him  his  gossip.  (1405- 
1193.)  Sir  Walter  Scott  introduces  hina 
in  A>uie  of  Gierstein,  and  again  in 
Qucntin  Durward. 

Hermoth  or  Hermod  (2  syl.).  The 
deity,  who,  with  Bragi,  receives  and 
welcomes  to  Valhalla  all  heroes  who  fall 
in  battle.     (Scandinavian  mythology.) 

He'ro.  Daughter  of  Leona'to,  gov- 
ernor of  Messi'na.    Her  attachment  to 


Hero 


003 


Herring-pond 


Beatrice  is  very  beautiful,  and  she  serves 
as  a  foil  to  show  off  the  more  brilliant 
qualities  of  her  cousin.  {Shakespeare : 
Afnsh  Ado  about  Nothing.) 

He'ro  and  Lean'der.  The  tale  is 
tluit  Hero,  a  priestess  of  Venus,  fell  in 
love  with  Leauder,  who  swam  across  the 
Hellespont  every  night  to  visit  }iei\  One 
night  he  was  drowned,  and  heart-broken 
Hero  drowned  herself  in  the  same  sea. 

Hero  Children.  Children  of  whom 
legend  relates,  that  being  deserted  by 
their  parents,' they  were  suckled  by  wild 
beasts,  brought  up  by  herdsmen,  and 
became  national  heroes. 

'  Heroes  scratclied  oS  Churcli- 
doors.  Militia  officers  were  so  called 
by  Sheridan.  The  Militia  Act  enjoined 
that  a  list  of  all  persons  between  eighteen 
and  fortj'-tive  years  of  age  must  be 
affixed  to  the  church  door  of  the  parish 
in  which  they  reside  three  days  before 
the  day  of  appeal,  Sunday  being  one. 
Commission  officers  who  had  served  four 
years  in  the  militia  being  exempt,  their 
names  "  were  scratched  off." 

Hero'ic  Age.  That  age  of  a  nation 
which  comes  between  the  purely  mythical 
period  and  the  historic.  This  is  the  age 
when  the  sous  of  the  gods  take  unto 
themselves  the  daughters  of  men,  and 
the  offsiH-iug  partake  of  the  twofold 
character. 

Heroic  Medicines.  Those  which 
either  kill  or  cure. 

Heroic  Size  in  sculpture  denotes  a 
stature  superior  to  ordinary  life,  but  not 
colossal. 

Heroic  Verse.  That  verse  in  which 
epic  poetry  is  generally  written.  In 
Greek  and  Latin  it  is  hexameter  verse,  in 
English  it  is  ten- syllable  iambic  verse, 
either  in  rhymes  or  not ;  in  Italian  it  is 
the  otlava  riina.  So  called  because  it  is 
employed  to  celebrate  heroic  exploits. 

Her'od.  A  child-killer  ;  from  Herod 
the  Great,  who  ordered  the  massacre  of 
the  babes  in  Bethleliem.     (Matt.  ii.  16.) 

7b  oitt-herod  Herod.  To  out-do  iu 
wickedness,  violence,  or  rant,  the  worst 
of  tyrants.  Herod,  who  destroyed  the 
babes  of  Bethlehem,  was  made  (in  the 
ancient  mysteries)  a  ranting,  iijaring 
tyrant  ;  the  extravagance  of  his  rant 
being  the  measure  of  his  bloody-minded- 
ness.     {See  Pilate.  ) 

'•  Oh,  it  offends  me  to  the  soul  to  hear  a  ro- 
Inistious,  periwig-iiated  fellow  tear  a  passion  to 
tatters,  to  very  rags,  to  split  the  ears  of  the 
groundlings  ....  it  out-herods  Herod."— Mafce- 
speare:  HamlH,  iii.  2 


Herod's  Death  (Acts  xii.  23).  The 
following  died  of  a  similar  disease 
Qththiriasis]  :  L.  Sylla  ;  Pherecydes  the 
Syrian  (the  preceptor  of  Pytha^uras)  ; 
tlie  Greek  poet  Alcmseou,  and  Philii)  II. 
of  Spaiu. 

Piitliiri'asis  is  an  affection  of  the  skin 
in  which  parasites  are  engendered  so 
numerouslj-  as  to  cover  the  whole  surface 
of  the  body.  The  vermin  lay  their  eggs 
in  the  skin  and  multiply  most  rapidly. 

Herodotus  of  Old  London  {The). 
John  Stow,  author  of  the  Sarieij  of 
London  (1525-1G05). 

Her'on-crests.  The  TTzbeg  Tartars 
wear  a  plume  of  white  heron  feathers  in 
their  turliaus. 

Heros'tratos  or  Erostratos.  An 
Ejihesian  who  set  fire  to  the  temple  of 
Ephesus  in  order  that  his  name  might 
be  perpetuated.  The  Ephesiaus  made 
it  penal  to  mention  the  name,  but  this 
law  defeated  its  object  (b.c.  3')tj). 

Herring.  Lead  as  a  shottcn  herring. 
The  shotten  herring  is  one  that  has  shot 
off  or  ejected  its  spawn.  This  fish  dies 
the  very  moment  it  quits  the  water, 
from  want  of  air.  Indeed,  all  the 
hemng  tribe  die  very  soon  after  they 
are  taken  from  their  native  element. 
{See  Battle.) 

-By  gir  do  hcrrins:  is  no  dead  so  as  I  vill  kill 
h\\]t:'— Shakespeare  :  Merry  Wives  nf  Wimlaor,  ii.  '2. 

Neither  barrel  the  better  herri)ig.  Much 
of  a  muchness  ;  not  a  pin  to  choose 
between  you ;  six  of  one  and  half  a 
dozen  of  the  other.  The  hen-ings  of 
both  barrels  are  so  much  alike  that  there 
is  no  choice  whatever.  In  Spanish ; 
"  Qnal  mas  qiial  menos,  ioda  la  lana  cs 
jielos.'''' 

"Two  feloes  being  like  flagicious,  and  neither 
baroll  better  herring,  accused  either  other,  the 
kyng  Philippus  ....  sitting  in  iud^'Cnieiit  vpou 
them  ....  condemned  both  the  one  and  the 
other  with  banishmente."  —  £ro»Hii(s;  Ajiop^- 
thcjmes. 

Herring-bone  (in  building).  Courses 
of  stone  laid  angularly,  thus :  ^'(  (-{  . 
Also  applied  to  strutting  placed  between 
thin  joists  to  increase  their  strength. 

Also  a  peculiar  stitch  in  needlewoi-k, 
chiefly  used  in  working  flannel. 

Herring-pond  {The).  The  British 
Channel ;  the  Atlantic,  which  separates 
America  from  the  Briti.sh  Isles  ;  the  sea 
between  Australasia  and  the  United 
Kingdom,  are  all  so  called. 

"He'll  plague  you  now  he's  come  over  the 
herring-p(md.'' —  iS'jr  IK.  Scott:  Guy  Mannering, 
chap,  xxxiv. 


Hertford 


604 


Hexameter 


Hertford.  (Anglo-Saxon,  hcovf-furd, 
the  hart's  ford).  The  arms  of  the  city 
are  "  a  hart  couohaut  in  water." 

Herlfurd,  invoked  by  Thomson  in  his 
Spiiiii],  was  Francos  'I'hyune,  who  mar- 
ried Algernon  Seymour,  Earl  of  Hert- 
ford, afterwards  Duke  of  Somerset. 

Eertha.  Mother  earth.  Worshii)ped 
by  all  the  Scandinavian  tribes  with 
orgies  and  mysterious  rites,  celebrated 
in  the  dark.  Her  veiled  statue  was 
transported  from  district  to  distinct  by 
cows  which  no  hand  but  the  priest's  was 
allowed  to  touch.  Tacitus  calls  this 
goddess  Cyb'ele. 

Hesione  (4  syl.).  Daughter  of 
Laom'edon,  King  of  Troy,  exposed  to  a 
sea-monster,  but  rescued  by  Hercules. 
(<SW'  Andeomeda.) 

Hesper'ia.  Italy  was  so  called  by 
the  Greeks,  because  it  was  to  them  the 
"Western  Land;"  and  afterwards  the 
Eomaus,  for  a  similar  reason,  transferred 
the  name  to  Sjiain. 

Hesper'ides  (4  syl.).  Three  sisters 
who  guarded  the  golden  apples  which 
He'ra  [Jniw)  received  .as  a  marriage 
gift.  They  wore  assisted  by  the  dragon 
La'dou.  Many  English  poets  call  the 
place  where  these  golden  apples  grew 
the  "  garden  of  the  Hesi)erides." 
Shakespeai-e  {Love's  Labonfs  J.onf,  iv. 
3)  speaks  of  climbing  trees  in  tlie 
Hesperides."    (See  C'omiis,  lines  402-40(j.) 

"  Show  tliee  the  tree,  leafed  witli  refliii'd  unld. 
Whereon  the  fearful  (IniLr.m  licld  his  seal. 
That  watched  the  L-ardeii  ealicd  JlesiM-n.;0;." 
Jiubiit  <hr)ir:  Friiir  I:.,,'.,,,  „iid 
Friar  llnnijaii.    (Ijiis.; 

Hes'perus.    The  evening  star. 
"  Ere  twiee  in  nuirk  and  oceidental  damp, 
Moist    Hesperus    hath   quenched    his    sleepy 
lamp." 
Shakespeare:  All's  Well  that  Ends  M'ell,  ii.  1. 

Ha'sychasts   (pron.   JTc'-sc-kasis). 
The   "Quietists"    of   the    East    in   the 
fourteenth   century.     They  ijlaced  per- 
fection     in     contemplation.       (Greek, 
hesu'chia,  quiet.)     {See  Gibbon,  Itonan 
Empire,  Ixiii.)     Milton  well  expresses 
their  belief  in  his  Com  lis  : — 
"Till  oft  converse  with  heavenly  habitants 
Begin  to  cast  a  beam  on  the  outward  shape. 
And  turns  it  by  degrees  to  the  snil's  essence, 
Till  all  be  made  immortal."    (470-474.) 

Hetserism  (3  syl.).    Prostitution. 

The  Greek  hetaira  (a  concubine).  Ac- 
cording to  Plato,  "  Meretrix,  specioso 
nomine  rem  odiosam  denotcuite.'^  {Pint, 
et  At/ieii.) 

Hetman.  The  chief  of  the  Cossacks 
of  the  Don  used  to  be  so  called.  He  was 
elected  by  the  people,  and  the  mode  of 


choice  was  thus  :  The  voters  threw  their 
fur  caps  at  the  candidate  they  voted  for, 
and  he  who  had  the  largest  number  of 
caps  at  his  feet  was  the  successful  can- 
didate. The  last  Hetman  was  Count 
PlatotY  (1S1-2-1S11). 

A  geneial  or  commander-in-chief. 
(German,  haiiptmann,  chief  man.) 

"After  the  peace,  all  Europe  hailed  llieir  hct- 
Iiiaii,  Thiloir.  as  I  lie  licro  ,.f  (lie  w:ir."— J.  S. 
MuMiij :    War  ntmiiiisciiici.-',  chap.  xi.  p.  1  ID. 

Heu-monat'  or  Heg-monath.  Hay- 
month,  the  Anglo-Saxon  name  for  July. 

Hewson.  Old  Iliuson  the  cohhier. 
Colonel  John  Hewson,  who  (as  Hume 
says)  "  rose  from  the  profession  of  a 
cobbler  to  a  high  rank  in  Cromwell's 
ai'my." 

Hexameron  {The).  The  six  days  of 
creation ;  any  six  dtiys  taken  as  one 
continuous  j)eriod. 

"'Every  winged  fowl'  was  produced  on  the 
fourth  (biy  of  the  Hexameron."— 11'.  E.  <lUtd.-toiie  : 
Ainctiaith  Century,  January,  l.siiO. 

Hexameter  and  Pentameter.   An 

alteinate  metre  ;  often  called  (4egiai; 
verse.  Hexameter  as  (lescribed  below. 
Pentameter  verse  is  divided  into  two 
jKirts,  each  of  which  ends  with  an  extra 
long  syllable.  The  former  half  consists 
of  two  metres,  dactyls  or  spondees;  the 
latter  htilf  must  be  two  dactyls.  The 
following  is  a  rhyming  siiecimen  in 
Englisli : 

Would  you  be  happy  an  hour,  dine  well  ;  for  a 
day,  tend  a  wedding  ; 
If  for  a  week,  buy  a  house  ;  if  for  a  month, 
wed  a  sponsi' ; 
Would  you  he  liaiipy  six  months,  buy  a  horse; 
if  f.ir  lwel\o,  starta  carriage  ; 
Happiiii'ss  long  as  you  live,  oiily  contentment 
can  give.  M.C.Ji. 

This  metre  might  be  introduced,  and 
would  suit  eiiigrams  and  short  iioems. 

Hexameter  Verse.  A  Ihie  of  poetry 
consisting  of  six  measures,  the  fifth 
being  a  dactyl  and  the  sixth  either  a 
spondee  or  a  trochee.  The  other  four 
may  be  either  dactj'ls  or  sjjondees. 
Homer's  two  epic  poems  and  Virgil's 
u-Eiieid  are  written  in  hexameters.  The 
latter  begins  thus : 

Arms  and  the  |  man  I  |  sing,  who  |  driven  from  | 

Troy  by  ill-  |  fortune 
First  into  j  Italy  |  came,  as  |  f.ir  as  the  |  sliorcs 

of  L.a-  I  Vina. 
Much  was  he  harassed  by  land,  much  tossed  on 

the  pitiless  ocean. 
All  by  the  force  of  the  gods,  and  relentless 

anger  of  Juno.  E.C.B. 

Or  rhyming  with  the  Latin, 

"  Arma  virumciue  cano  Troja*  qui  primus  ab  oris.' 
Anus  ami  the  man  I  slug  who  Hist  from  the 
Phrygian  shore  is. 
"  Italiam  Fato  profugus,  Lavinaciue  venit  .  .  ." 
To.-sed  to  the  land  of  La\iiia,  although  J(.ve'8 
queen  didn't  u.eau  it.  E.  C.  B. 


Hexapla 


605 


High-born 


"  Longfellow's  Ecauijd'inc  is  iu  Eng- 
lish hexameters. 

Hex'apla.  A  hook  containing  the 
text  of  tlie  Bilile  in  Hebrew  and  Greek, 
with  four  translations,  viz.  the  Sep'tua- 
gint,  vi  itli  those  of  Aquila,  Theodo'tion, 
and  Symmachus.  The  whole  is  priuted 
ill  six  columns  on  the  page.  This  was 
Vie  work  of  Origeu,  who  also  added 
marginal  notes. 

Hext.  When  hale  is  Jir.rt,  boot  is  next 
When  things  come  to  the  worst  they 
must  soon  mend.  lia/e  means  misery, 
luirt,  misfortune ;  /text  is  highest,  as 
next  is  nighest ;  boot  means  help,  profit. 

Heyday  of  Youth.  The  prime  of 
youth.  (Anglo-Saxon,  heh-decg,  high- 
day  or  mid- day  of  youth.) 

Hiawath'a.  Sou  of  Mudjekee'wis 
(the  west  wind)  and  Weno'nah.  His 
mother  died  in  his  infancy,  and  Hia- 
watha was  brought  up  by  his  grand- 
mother, Noko'mis,  daughter  of  the  Moon. 
He  represents  the  progress  of  civilisation 
among  the  American  Indians.  He  first 
wrestled  with  Monda'min  (Indian  maize), 
whom  he  subdued,  and  gave  to  man 
bread-corn.  Hh  then  taught  man  navi- 
gation ;  then  he  subdued  the  Mishe- 
Nahma  or  sturgeon,  and  told  the  people 
to  "  bring  all  their  pots  and  kettles  and 
make  oil  for  winter."  His  next  ad- 
venture was  against  Megissog'won,  the 
magician,  "  who  sent  the  fiery  fever 
on  man  ;  sent  the  white  fog  from  the 
fen-lands  ;  sent  disease  and  death  among 
us ;  "  he  slew  the  terrible  monster,  and 
taught  man  the  science  of  medicine,  He 
next  married  "Laughing Water,"  setting 
the  people  an  example  to  follow.  Lastly, 
he  taught  the  people  picture-writing. 
When  the  white  man  landed  and  taught 
the  Indians  the  faith  of  Jesus,  Hia- 
watha exhorted  them  to  receive  the 
words  of  wisdom,  to  reverence  the  mis- 
sionaries who  had  come  so  far  to  see 
them,  and  departed  "to  the  kingdom  of 
Pone'mah,  the  land  of  the  Hereafter." 

Longfellow's  song  of  Hiawatha  may 
be  termed  the  "  Edda "  of  the  North 
American  Indians. 

HiawatheC s  mittens.  "  Magic  mittens 
made  of  deer-skin  ;  when  upon  his  hands 
he  wore  them,  he  could  smite  the  rocks 
asunder."    {Longfelloic  :  Hiawatha,  ix.) 

Hiaicatha's  nwe'casiiis.  Enchanted 
shoes  made  of  deer-skin.  "When  he 
bound  them  round  his  ankles,  at  each 
stride  a  mile  he  measiu'ed."  {Long- 
fellow:  Hiawatha,  iy.) 


Hiber'nia.  A  variety  of  lerne  {Irc- 
hiiiit).  riiny  saj's  the  Irish  motliers 
feed  their  babes  with  swords  instead  of 
spoons. 

'■  Wlrl"  in  Hilieriiia's  fl'Mcls  the  lalioiiviiii.'  swain, 
Shall  iiass  the  iiloub'li  oer  skulls  of  warriors 
slain, 
And  turn  up  bones  and  broken  srcars. 
Aniazeil,  lie'll  show  his  fellows  of  the  plain 

Tlic  relics  of  victorious  years, 
Aiul  tell  how  swift  thy  arms  that  kingdom  did 
re  rain."  llaijhes:  Uouse  of  Nassau. 

Hie  Ja'cets.  Tombstones,  so  called 
from  the  first  two  words  of  their  inscrip- 
tions; "  Here  lies  ..." 

"  By  the  cold  Uic  .hicets  of  the  dead." 

Tvinii/son :  Iclijlls  vftlie  Kimj  ( Vivlenl. 

Hick'athrift  {Tom  or  Jaelc).  A  poor 
labourer  in  the  time  of  the  Conquest,  of 
such  enonnous  strength  that,  armed  with 
an  axletree  and  cartwheel  only,  he  killed 
a  giant  who  dwelt  in  a  marsh  at  Tilney, 
Norfolk.  He  was  knighted  and  made 
governor  of  Thanet.  He  is  sometimes 
called  Rickufnc. 

Hickory.  Old  lliekory.  General 
Andrew  Jackson.  Parton  says  he  was 
first  called  "  Tough,"  from  his  pedestrian 
powers ;  then  "  Tough  as  liickory  ; "  and 
lastly,  "Old  Hickory." 

Hidal'go.  The  title  in  Spain  of  the 
lower  nobilit}-.  (According  to  Bishop  St. 
Vincent,  the  word  is  compounded  of 
hijo  del  Goto,  son  of  a  Goth  ;  but  more 
probably  it  is  Jiijo  and  dalgo.  Jlija  = 
child  or  son,  and  dalgo  =  respect,  as  in 
the  phrase,  '■'■Facer  niucho  dah/o,''''  to  re- 
ceive with  great  respect.  In  Portuguese 
it  is  FidaUjo. 

Hide  of  Land  {A).  No  fixed  number 
of  "acres,"  but  such  a  quantity  as  was 
valued  at  a  stated  geld  or  tax.  A  hide 
of  good  arable  land  was  smaller  than  a 
hide  of  inferior  quality. 

Hieroclean  Legacy.  The  legacy 
of  jokes.  Higrocles,  in  the  fifth  Christian 
century,  was  the  first  person  who  hunted 
uj)  and  compiled  jokes.  After  a  life-long 
labour  he  mustered  together  as  many  as 
twenty-eight,  which  he  has  left  to  the 
world  as  his  legacy. 

Higgledy-piggledy.  In  great  con- 
fusion ;  at  sixes  and  sevens.  A  higgler 
is  a  pedlar  whose  stores  are  all  huddled 
together.  Higgledy  means  after  the 
fashion  of  a  higgler's  basket ;  and  pig- 
glrdg  is  a  ricochet  word  suggested  by 
litter  ;  as,  a  pig's  litter. 

High-born.      Of    aristocratic   birth ; 

"  Inline  haatc  naissancc  ;  "  "  Siimmo  loco 
natus.^'' 


High  Church 


60(5 


Highland  Mary 


High  Cliurch.  Those  who  helieve 
the  Cliurch  [of  England]  the  only  true 
Chiirth  ;  that  its  haptisni  is  regeneration  : 
and  that  its  priests  have  the  delegated 
power  of  absolution  (on  confession  and 
promise  of  reiJentance). 

High  Days  =  festivals.  On  h'ujh 
days  unci  huHdaijs.  Here  "high"  = 
grand  or  great ;  as,  "  xn  grand  joury 

High  Falu'tin  or  Hifalu'ten.    Tall 

talk.  (Dutch,  vcrhjotcn,  liigh  -  flown, 
stilted.) 

"The  genius  of  hifalnten,  as  tlio  Americans  call 
it  .  .  .  lias  received  maiiv  ninrtal  woiiiuls  latelv 

fiMiii    the   haiiiU    of    satirists A   (juizzicai 

Jenkins  lately  ilesci-il)eil  the  dress  of  a  New  Yoric 
helle  by  statirii;  that 'she  wore  an  exquisite  hy- 
lihaluten  on  her  head,  wliile  her  train  was  coni- 
)  ose.l  of  transparent  fol-de-rnl,  and  her  jietticoat 
of  craniliamlmli  Honnced  with  Brussels  three-ply 
of  A  No.  \.'"—IImg^ton:  Introduction  to  Josh 
UiUinijs. 

High  Hand.  JFi/h  a  hifjh  hand. 
Arrogantly.  To  cany  things  with  a  high 
hand  in  French  would  be:  '■^I'airc  nnc 
chose  haiit  la  ma'tn,^^ 

High  Heels  and  Low  Heels.    The 

High  and  Low  Church  party.  I'ho 
names  of  two  factions  in  Swift's  talc  of 
Lilliput.     {(ii(Uivcy''s  Travels.) 

High  Horse.  To  be  on  the  high  horse 
or  To  ride  the  high  horse.  To  be  over- 
bearing and  arrogant.  (For  explanation 
see  HoESE,  "  'To  get  upon  your  high 
horse.' ^) 

High  Jinks.  He  is'  at  high  jinJcs. 
The  i)resent  use  of  the  phrase  exjiresses 
the  idea  of  uproarious  fun  and  jollitj'. 

"The  frolicsome  company  had  hegun  to  iirac- 
tise  the  ancient  and  now  forgotten"  rast  nio  of 
inyh  Jinks.  The  game  was  played  in  several 
different  ways.  Most  frequently  the  dice  were 
thrown  hy  the  company,  and  those  uiion  whom 
tlie  lot  f''ll  were  ohiigeil  to  assume  an<l  main- 
tajn  for  n  lime  a  certain  llciitious  character,  or 
to'' reic.ii  a  r.Mi.uu  number  of  fescenniiui  verses 
in  a  i':uii.iil:ir  ni-.ier.  If  they  departed  from  tho 
charactiTrt  ;is -iiriicd  .  .  .  they  incurred  forfeits, 
which  Were  <;oii,iiiiunded  for  by  swallowing  an 
additional  bumper."— ,S'ir  ]Y.  Scott:  Guy  Maniier- 
iiifj,  xxivi. 

High  Life.  People  of  high  life.  The 
upper  ten,  the  "haul  monde." 

High  Places,  in  Scripture  language, 
means  elevated  spots  where  sacrifices 
were  offered.  Idolatrous  worshijJ  was 
much  carried  on  in  high  places.  Some 
were  evidently  artificial  mounds,  for  the 
faithful  are  frequeittly  ordered  to  re- 
move or  destroy  them.  Hezekiah  re- 
moved the  high  places  (2  Kings  xviii.  4), 
so  did  Asa  (2  Chronicles  xiv.  3),  Je- 
hoshaphat  (2  Chronicles  xvii.  6),  Josiah, 
and  others.  On  the  other  hand,  Jeho- 
ram  and  Ahaz  made  high  places  for 
idolatrous  worsliip. 


High  Ropes.  To  he  on  the  high 
ropes.  To  be  very  grand  and  mighty  in 
demeanour. 

Eigh  Seas.    All  the  sea  which  is  not 

the  proi)erty  of  a  particular  country. 
The  sea  three  miles  out  belongs  to  tho 
adjacent  coast,  and  is  called  mare  vlaa- 
snm.  High-seas,  like  high-way.s,  means 
for  the  public  use.  In  both  cases  tho 
word  hiejli  means  "'  chief,"  "  principal." 
(Latin,  allani,  "the  main  sea;"  altit!\ 
"high.") 

High  Tea  {A).  The  meal  called 
tea  served  willi  cold  meats,  vegetable.';, 
and  j>astry,  in  substitution  of  dinner. 

'■A  well-understood  'high  te.i  '  should  have 
<-old  roast  beef  at  the  top  of  the  table,  a  c  id 
YirkHhin-  p:e  at  ibe  biitl'im,a  might  v  ham  in  the 
midilh'.  Tbe  sid.'  dishes  will  comi  ri.-ic  sm  sed 
niaikerel,  pickleil  salu.on  (in  iluc  sea-ou),  saus- 
ages aiul  potatoes,  etc.,  etc.  Kivers  (<  lea.i'offe  ■, 
ami  ale,  with  dry  and  buttered  toast,  s:illy-lunns, 
scones,  mufflns,  and  crumpets,  jams  aiul  marma- 
lade, '—r/ic  iKiilii  Telejrniili,  May  i/tli,  Isw. 

High  Words.    Angry  words. 

Highgate  has  its  name  from  a  gate 
set  up  there  about  4(10  years  ago,  to 
receive  tolls  for  the  bishop  of  London, 
when  the  old  miry  road  from  Gra3-'s  Inn 
Lane  to  Baniet  was  turned  through  tho 
bLshojj's  park.  The  village  being  in  a 
high  or  elevated  situation  exjilaius  Iho 
first  part  of  the  name. 

iSicorn  at  Highgate.  A  custom  an- 
ciently prevailed  at  the  ])ublic-houses  iii 
Highgate  to  administd  a  ludicrous  oath 
to  all  travellers  who  stuj^^ped  there.  The 
])arty  was  sworn  on  a  jiair  of  honis 
fastened  to  a  stick — 

(1)  Never  to  kiss  the  maid  Avlicn  ho 
can  kiss  the  mistress. 

(2)  Never  to  eat  brown  bread  when  ho 
can  get  white. 

(3)  Never  to  drink  small  beer  when  he 
can  get  strong — unless  he  prefers  it. 

Highland  Bail.  Fist.s  and  cuffs ;  to 
escape  the  constable  by  knocking  him 
down  with  the  aid  of  a  companion. 

"The  mute  eloquence  of  the  miller  and  smith, 
which  was  vested  in  their  clenched  Hsts,  was 
prepared  to  give  highland  bail  for  tlio^r  arbiter 
[Edie  Ochiltree]."— Sir  )!'.  Scutt:  The  AntiqKury, 
elrap.  x.xix. 

Highland  Mary.  A  name  immor- 
talised by  Bin-ns,  generally  thought  to 
be  Mary  Camijbell,  but  more  probably 
Mary  Morison.  In  1792  we  have  three 
songs  to  Mary:  "Will  ye  go  to  the 
Indies,  my  Mary  ?  "  "  Highland  Mary  " 
("  Ye  banks  and  braes  of  bonnie  Doon  "), 
and  "To  Mary  in  Heaven"  ("Thou 
lingering  star,"  etc.).  These  were  all 
written  some  time  after  the  consumma- 
tion of  his  marriage  with  Jean  Armour 


Highlands 


607 


Himiltrude 


(1788),  from  the  recollection  of  "  one  of 
the  most  interesting  passages  of  his 
youthful  da3's."  Four  mouths  after  he 
had  sent  to  Mr.  Thomson  the  song  called 
"  Highland  Mary  "  he  sent  that  entitled 
"Mary  Morisou,"  which  he  calls  "  one 
of  his  juvenile  works."  Thus  all  the 
four  songs  refer  to  some  youthful  pas- 
sion, aud  three  of  them  at  least  were 
sent  in  letters  addressed  to  Mr.  Thom- 
son, so  that  little  douht  can  exist  that 
the  Mary  of  all  the  four  is  one  and  the 
same  person,  called  by  the  author  Mary 
Morison. 

"  Hi>-,v  blytlii'ly  wail  I  liide  tlie  stoiuv, 
A  weriry  slave  frae  sun  tii  sun. 
Could  I  tlio  violi  reward  scciire- 
Tlie  Invely  Mary  Morison." 

Highlands  of  Scotland  {The)  in- 
clude all  the  country  on  the  northern 
sido  of  a  line  drawn  from  the  Moray 
Frith  to  the  river  Clyde,  or  (which  is 
about  the  same  thing)  from  Nairn  to 
Glasgow. 

Highlanders  of  Af  tioa.  Tlie 
operative  class,  who  had  their  dwellings 
on  the  hills  (JJiacrii). 

High'ness.  The  Khedive  of  Egypt  is 
styled  "  Your  Highness,"  or  "His  High- 
ness ;  " 

The  children  of  kings  and  queens, 
"  Your  Royal  Highness,"  or  "His  Ro^-al 
Highness  ;  " 

The  children  of  emperors,  "  Your 
Imperial  Highness,"  or  "His  Imperial 
Highness." 

Till  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  the  kings 
of  England  were  styled  "Your  High- 
ness," "Your  Grace,"  "  Your  Excellent 
Grace,"  etc.,   or   "His  .  .   .  .  "   etc. 

Highwaymen.  The  four  most  cele- 
brated are : — 

Claude  Dura],  who  died  1070. 

James  iriiitnci/,  who  died  1G91,  at  the 
age  of  34. 

Jonathan  Wild,  of  Wolverhampton 
(168-2-17'25). 

Jack  Sheppard,  of  Spitalfields  (1701- 
17-24). 

Hil'ary  Term,  in  the  Law  Courts, 
besins  on  Plough  Monday  (q.r.)  and 
ends  the  Wednesday  before  Easter.  It 
is  so  called  in  honour  of  St.  Hilary, 
whose  day  is  January  14. 

Hil'debrand  {Mehtcr).  The  Nestor 
of  German  romance.  Like  Maugis  among 
the  heroes  of  Charlemagne,  he  was  a 
magician  as  well  as  champion. 

Hilddirand.  Pope  Gregory  VII.  (1013, 
1073-1085). 

A  llildehrand.  One  resembling  Pope 
Gregory  VII.,  noted  for  subjugating  the 


power  of  the  German  emperors ;  and 
specially  detested  by  the  early  re- 
fonners  for  his  ultra-iwntifical  views. 

Hil'debrod  {Thihi^.  President  of  the 
Alsa'tian  club.  {Hlr  W.  ticott :  FurUmcs 
of  y'H/el.) 

Hildesheim.  A  monk  of  Hildes- 
heim  doubtiug  how  with  God  a  thou- 
sand j'ears  could  be  as  one  day,  listened 
to  tlie  singing  of  a  bird  in  a  wood,  as  he 
thought  for  three  minutes,  but  found 
the  time  had  been  three  hundred  years. 
Longfellow  has  borrowed  this  tale  and 
introduced  it  in  his  Golden  Le(jend.  {See 
Felix.) 

HiU  {Sir  John),  M.D.,  botanist  (1710- 
177-3).  He  wrote  some  farces,  which 
called  forth  from  Garrick  the  following 
couplet : 

"  Knr  physic  and  farces  Iiis  ennal  tliere  scarce  ii, 
His  farces  ai'e  pliysic,  his  physic  a  farce  is." 

Hill-folk.  The  Camerouian  Scotch 
Covenanters,  who  met  clandestinely 
among  the  hills.  Sometimes  the  Cove- 
nanters generally  ai-e  so  called.  Sir  W. 
Scott  used  the  words  as  a  synonym  of 
Cameronians. 

Hill-people  or  Hill-folk.  A  class 
of  beings  in  Scandinavian  tradition 
between  the  elves  and  the  human  race. 
They  are  supposed  to  dwell  in  caves  and 
small  hills,  and  are  bent  on  receiving 
the  beuefits  of  man's  redemjition. 

Hill  Tribes.  The  barbarous  tribes 
dwelling  in  remote  parts  of  the  Deccan 
or  plateau  of  Central  India. 

Hills.  Prayers  were  offered  on  the 
tops  of  high  hills,  and  temples  built  on 
"  high  i^laces,"  from  the  notion  that  the 
gods  could  better  hear  prayers  on  such 
places,    as   they    were    nearer    heaven. 

As  Lucian  says,  on    jiof    evxmKeuw    ayvoOev 

ewaiovT!.!/  oi  deol.  And  Tacitus  says, 
"maxime  ccelo  approir.nquare,  iirccesqne 
mortalium  a  Deo  nusquam  projuus 
audlre."  It  will  be  remembered  that 
Balak  (Numbers  xxiii.  xxiv. )  took  Bala'im 
to  the  top  of  Peor  and  other  high  places 
when  Balaam  wished  to  consult  God. 
We  often  read  of  "idols  on  every  high 
hill."     (Ezek.  vi.  13.) 

V  The  Greek  gods  dwelt  on  Mount 
Ol3'mi5us. 

Himiltrude  (3  syl.).  Wife  of  Charle- 
magne, Avho  surpassed  all  other  women 
in  nobleness  of  mien. 

"  Her  neck  was  tinfjed  with  a  delicate  rose,  like 
that  of  a  Roman  matron  in  former  ase«.  Her 
locks  were  bound  about  her  tenuiles  with  i,'old 
and  piinde  bands.  Her  dress  was  looped  up  with 
rulpy  clasps.  Her  coronet  and  lier  purple  robes 
gave  her  an  air  of  surpassins  majesty."— Cr92«6- 
mitainei  iii. 


Hinc 


608 


Hippocampus 


Hinc  illse  Lacrymae.  This  was  the 
real  ofl'eiice  ;  this  was  the  true  secret  of 
the  niinoyauce  ;  this,  cntre  nous,  was  the 
real  source  of  the  vexation. 

"  Pei-cliance  'tis  JIara's  sonp  that  gives  offonce— 
nine  illiF  locri/inn^—l  fear 
Tlie  sonu'  tliat  once  could  charm  thernyal  st'nse, 
DeliahtP,  alas  !  no  more  the  royal  ear." 

]'dcr  Pindar  :  Ode  vpon  Ode. 

Kind.  Emblematic  of  St.  Giles, 
hecause  "a  heaven-directed  hind  went 
daily  to  give  him  milk  in  the  desert, 
near  the  mouth  of  the  Rhone."  {See 
Hart.) 

The  hriid  of  Sprtorius.     Serto'rius  was 
invited  by  the   Lusita'nians  to   defend 
them  a.sainst  the  Romans.     He  had  a 
tame  white  hind,  Avhich  he   taught  to 
follow  him,    and   from   which   he  pre- 
tended  to  receive    the    instructions   of 
Dian'a.     By  this  artifice,  says  Plutjirch, 
he  imposed  on  the  superstition  of  the 
jjcople. 
"  He  feigned  a  demon  (in  a  hind  concealed) 
To  him  tbo  counsels  of  the  t-'ods  revealed." 
Camoaia :  Lu.'<iud,  i. 

The  milk-vhife  hind,  in  Dryden's 
poem.  The  llhid  ami  the  Tiniiher^  moans 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  milk-white 
because  "  infallible."  The  panther, 
full  of  the  spots  of  error,  is  the  Church 
of  England. 

"  without  unspotted.  Innocent  within. 
She  feared  no  danger,  for  slie  knew  no  sin." 
Part  i.  lines  3,  4. 

Hln'da.  Daughter  of  Al  Hassan,  the 
Arabian  ameer  of  Per.sia.  Her  lover, 
Hafed,  was  a  Gheber  or  Fire- worshipper, 
the  sworn  enemy  of  Al  Hassan  and  all 
his  race.  Al  Hassan  sent  her  away  for 
sr.fety,  but  she  was  taken  captive  by 
Hafed's  party,  and  when  her  lover 
(betrayed  to  Al  Hassan)  burnt  himself 
to  death  in  the  sacred  fire,  Hinda  cast 
herself  headlong  into  the  sea.  (  T.  Moore  : 
The  Fire-  Worshippers.) 

Hin'der  is  to  hold  one  behind  ; 
whereas  prc-vent  is  to  go  before  (Anglo- 
Saxon  hinder,  behind,  verb  hindrian). 

Hindustan.  The  country  of  the 
Hindits.  {Hind  [Persic]  and  Sind  [San- 
skrit] means  "black,"  and  tan  =  terri- 
tory is  very  common,  as  Afghanistan, 
Beloochistan,  FarsLstan,  Frangistan, 
Koordislan  [the  country  of  the  Koords], 
Kohistan  [the  high -country],  Kafiristan 
[the  infidel  country],  etc.) 

Hindustan  Regiment.  The  76th  ; 
so  called  because  it  first  distinguished 
itself  in  Hindustan.  It  is  also  called  the 
Seven  and  Sixpennies,  from  its  number. 
Now  the  '2nd  battalion  of  the  West 
Riding,  the  1st  being  the  old  No.  33. 


Hinzelmann.  The  most  famous 
house-spirit  or  kobold  of  Gemian  legend. 
He  lived  four  years  in  the  old  castle  of 
Hudemiihlen,  wliere  he  had  a  room  set 
apart  for  him.  At  the  end  of  the  fourth 
year  (1588)  he  went  away  of  his  own 
accord,  and  never  again  returned. 

Hip  {To).  A  hip  means  a  hyp-ochon- 
driac.  To  hip  means  to  make  melan- 
choly ;  to  fret ;  to  make  one  dismal  or 
gloomy  with  forebodings.  Hijipcd  means 
melancholy,  in  low  spirits. 

"  Fit  one  sliort  moiiirnt  Irt  us  cease 
To  mourn  llie  loss  of  many  slii|is— 
Fort-'c't  how  tax  and  rales  imrease. 
And  all  that  now  the  nalion  liips." 
f^.wx  :  The  Jiayoiiel  nallud.'<  (A  Sel-ofT). 

Hip  and  Tbigta.     'To  .iinite  hip  and 

thii/h.  To  slay  with  great  carnage.  A 
Hebrew  phrase.  (Geiinan,  Arm  nnd 
bein.) 

V  Perhaps  there  may  be  some  refer- 
ence to  the  superstition  about  the  03 
sacrum  ('/.«'.). 

"  And  he  smote  them  liip  and  thigh  with  great 
slaughter."— Judges  xv.H. 

Hip!  Hip!  Hurrah!  Hij>  is  said  to 
Ik;  a  notarica,  comjioscd  of  the  initial 
letters  of  Jlierosoh/ma  Est  Perdita. 
Henri  van  Laun  saj-s,  in  Notes  and 
Queries,  that  Avhenever  the  Gennan 
knights  headed  a  Jew -hunt  in  the 
Middle  Ages,  they  ran  shouting  "Hip! 
Hip !  "  as  much  as  to  say  "  Jerusalem 
is  destroyed."     {See  Notaeica.) 

Timbs  derives  Hurrah  from  the  Scla- 
vonic hii-r<ij  (to  Paradise),  so  that  Hip  .' 
hip!  hurrah  !  would  mean  "Jerusalem 
is  lost  to  the  infidel,  and  we  are  on  the 
road  to  Paradise."  These  etymons  may 
be  taken  for  what  they  are  worth.  The 
word  hurrah  !  is  a  German  exclama- 
tion also. 

^^  Now,  infde!,  I  have  thee  on  the  hip" 
{Merchant  of  Venice)  ;  and  again,  "  FJl 
hare  our  Michael  Cassia  on  the  hip" 
{Of hello),  to  have  the  whip  hand  of  one. 
The  term  is  derived  from  wrestlers,  who 
seize  the  adversary  by  the  hip  and  throw 
him. 

"  In  fine  he  doth  apply  one  speciall  drift, 
Wliich  was  to  tret  the  pasran  on  the  hip. 

And  haviuLT  caie-'ht  him  rii.'lit,  tie  doth  him  lift 
Bv  nimlile  slci'-rlit,  and  in  such  wise  doth  trip. 

That  down  he  threw  him.'       •'^ir  J.  llannyton. 

Hipper  -  switches.  Coarse  willow 
withes.  A  A  ;;;;;rr  is  a  coarse  osier  used 
in  basket-making,  and  an  osier  field  is 
a  hipper-holm. 

Hippo.  Bishop  of  Hippo.  A  title  by 
which  St.  Augustine  is  sometimes  desig- 
atcd.     (354-130.) 

Hip'pocampus  (4  syl.).  A  seahorse, 
having  the  head  and  fore-quarters  of  a 


Hippocras 


609 


Hit 


horse,  with  the  tail  and  hind-quarters 
of  a  tisli  or  dolphin.  (Greek,  htpjjos,  a 
liorse  ;  kanipos,  a  sea  monster.) 

Hippocras.    A  cordial  made  of  Lis- 
hon  and  Canary  wines,  bruised  spices, 
and  sugar ;  so  called  from  the  strainer 
through  which  it  is  passed,  called  by 
apothecaries  Hi pp(jc' rales''  akevc.   Hippo- 
crates in   the   Middle  Ages   was   called 
"  Yypocras  "  or  "  Hippocras."    Thus : 
"  Well  knew  be  the  old  Esculapius, 
And  Deisccirides,  and  eek  Kufus 
Old  Yypocras,  Haly,  and  Galieu. 
Chaucer :  Ccmterbury  Tales  (i'ro;og!te,4.')l). 

Hippocrat'ean  School.  A  school 
of  medicine,  so  called  from  Hippoc'rates. 
{iSee  Dogmatic.) 

Hippoc'rates'  Sleeve.  A  woollen 
bag  of  a  square  piece  of  ilanuel,  having 
the  opi)Osite  corners  joined,  so  as  to 
make  it  triangular.  Used  by  chemists 
for  straining  syrups,  decoctions,  etc, 

Hip'pocrene  (3  syl.).  The  fountain 
of  the  Muses,  produced  by  a  stroke  of 
the  hoof  of  Peg'asos  (Greek,  hippos, 
horse ;  kreiie,  fouutam). 

Hip'pogrifi*.  The  winged  horse,  whose 
father  was  a  griffin  and  mother  a  filly 
(Greek,  /lippos,  a  horse,  and  r/ri/p/ion,  a 
griffin).  A  .symbol  of  love.  {Ariosio  .- 
Orlando  Furioso,  iv.  18,  19.) 

"  So  saying,  be  caught  bim  np,  and  without  wing 
Of  bippiigiif,  bore  through  the  air  sublime, 
Over  the  wilderuess  and  o'er  the  plain." 

Milton:  Paradise  Bcgainecl,  iv.  541-3. 

(See  SiMURGH.) 

Hippol'yta.  Queen  of  the  Am'azons, 
and  daughter  of  Mars.  Shakespeare  has 
introduced  the  character  in  his  311(1- 
sxmmcr  Kighfs  Dream,  where  he  Tae- 
troths  her  "to  Theseus.  Duke  of  Athens. 
In  classic  fable  it  is  her  sister  An'tiope 
who  married  Theseus,  although  some 
writers  justify  Shakespeare's  account. 
Hippolyta  was  famous  for  a  girdle  given 
her  by  her  father,  and  it  was  one  of  the 
twelve  labours  of  Hercules  to  possess 
himself  of  this  prize. 

Hippol'ytos.  Son  of  Theseus  (2  syl. ), 
King  of  Athens.  He  was  dragged  to 
death  by  wild  horses,  and  restored  to 
life  by  Escula'pios. 

Hippol'ytus,  the  cardinal  to  whom 
Ai'iosto  dedicated  his  Orlando  Furioso, 

Hippom'enes  (4  syl.).  A  Grecian 
prince,  who  ran  a  race  with  Atalanta 
for  her  hand  in  man-iage.  He  had  three 
golden  apples,  which  he  dropped  one  by 
one,  and  which  the  lady  stopped  to  pick 
up.    By  this  delay  she  lost  the  race. 

39 


Hippothadee.  The  theologian  con- 
sulted by  Panurge  ('2  syl.)  on  the  all- 
important  question, ' '  IS'il  doi  t  .sc  iiiaricr  P* 
{Ituhclais  :  I'antaf/rui'l,  book  iii.) 

Hired  Grief.  Mutes  and  other  under- 
takers' emploiiccs  at  funerals.  The  Under- 
sheriif  Layton,  in  his  will,  desired  that 
he  might  be  "buried  without  hired 
grief  "  (1885). 

Hiren.  A  strumpet.  From  Peele's 
play,  The  Turkish  Mahomet  and  Hyren 
the  Fair  Greek.    {See  2  Henrij  I V. ,  ii.  4.) 

Hispa'nia.  Spain.  So  called  from 
the  Punic  word  Span  (a  rabbit),  on 
account  of  the  vast  number  of  rabbits 
which  the  Carthaginians  found  in  the 
peninsula.  Others  derive  it  from  the 
Basque  Expana  (a  border). 

Historicus.  The  noni  de  plume  in 
the  'Times  of  Sir  W.  Vernon  Harcourt, 
now  (1895)  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 

History.  Our  oldest  historian  is  the 
Venerable  Bede,  who  wrote  in  Latin  an 
Eeclcsiastical  History  of  very  great  merit 
(672-735).  Of  secidar  historians,  Wil- 
liam of  Poitiers,  who  wrote  in  Latin  The 
(rests  or  Heeds  of  William,  Huke  of  Nor- 
mandy and  King  of  the  English  (1020- 
1088).  His  contemporary  was  Ingulphus, 
who  wrote  a  history  of  Croylaud  Abbey 
(1030-1109).  The  oldest  prose  work  in 
Early  English  is  Sir  John  Mandeville's 
account  of  his  Eastern  travels  in  1356. 

The  Father  of  History.  Herod'otos, 
the  Greek  historian  (b.c.  484-408).  So 
called  by  Cicero. 

The  Father  of  Ecelesiasfical  History. 
Eusebins  of  Csesarea  (264-340). 

Father  of  French  History.  Andre 
Duchesne  (1584-1640). 

Father  of  Historic  rainting.  Polygno'- 
tos  of  Thaos  (flourished  b.c.  463-435). 

History  of  Croyland   Abbey,  by 

Ingulphus,  and  its  continuation  to  1118 
by  Peter  of  Blois,  were  proved  to  be 
literary  impositions  by  Sir-  F.  Palgrave  in 
the  Quarterly  Revieic,  vol.  xxxiv..  No.  67. 

Histrionic  is  from  the  Etruscan 
word  hister  (a  dancer),  histrio'nes  (ballet- 
dancers).  Hence,  histrio  in  Latin  means 
a  stage-jSayer,  and  our  word  histrionic, 
pertaining  to  the  drama.  History  is 
quite  another  word,  being  the  Greek 
historia,  histor,  a  judge,  allied  to  his- 
tamai,  to  know. 

Hit.  A  great  hit.  A  piece  of  good 
luck.  From  the  game  hit  and  miss,  or 
the  game  of  backgammon,  where  "two 
hits  equal  a  gammon." 


Hit 


610 


Hobgoblin 


Hit  it  Off  {To).  To  describe  a  thiiijr 
tersely  and  epigramraatically  ;  to  make 
a  sketch  truthfully  and  quickly.  The 
French  say,  "  Ce  pcintre  rous  saisit  (a 
resemhhoice  en  iin  din  d'a'il.^^ 

To  hit  it  off  together.  To  agree  to- 
gether, or  suit  each  other. 

Hit  the  Nail  on  the  Head  {To). 
{See  Head.) 

Hitch.  Tltere  is  some  hiteh.  Some 
impediment.  A  horse  is  said  to  have 
a  hitch  in  his  gait  when  lie  is  lame. 
(Welsh,  hecian,  to  halt  or  limp.) 

To  hitch.  To  get  on  smoothly;  to  fit 
inconsistently:  as,  "You  and  I  hitch 
on  well  together;"  "These  two  ac- 
counts do  not  hitch  in  with  each  other." 
A  lame  horse  goes  about  j  umping,  and 
to  j  ump  together  is  to  be  in  accord.  So 
the  two  meanings  apparently  contra- 
dictory hitch  together.  Compare  pre- 
vent, meaning  to  aid  and  to  resist. 

Hivites  (2  syl.).  The  students  of  St. 
Bee's  College,  Cumberland.  (Bee-hives.) 

Hoang.  The  ancient  title  of  the 
Chinese  kings,  meaning  "  sovereign 
lord."     {See  Kinq.) 

Hoare  (37,  Fleet  Street,  London). 
The  golden  bottle  over  the  fanlight  is 
said  to  contain  the  half-crown  with 
which  James  Hoare  started  in  business. 

Hoarstone.  A  landmark.  A  stone 
marking  out  the  boundary  of  an  estate. 

Hoax.    {See  Canaed.) 

Hob  of  a  grate.  From  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  verb  habhan  (to  hold).  The 
chimney-corner,  where  at  one  time  a 
settle  stood  on  each  side,  was  also  called 
"the  hob." 

Hob  and  Nob  together.  To  drink  as 
cronies,  to  clink  glasses,  to  drink  tete-a- 
tete.  In  the  old  English  houses  there 
was  a  hob  at  each  corner  of  the  hearth 
for  heating  the  beer,  or  holdmg  what 
one  wished  to  keep  hot.  This  was  from 
the  verb  hahban  (to  hold).  The  little 
round  table  set  at  the  elbow  was  called 
a  noh  ;  hence  to  hob-nob  was  to  drink 
snugly  and  cosily  in  the  chimney-corner, 
with  the  beer  bobbed,  and  a  little  nob- 
table  set  in  the  snuggery.  {See  Hob 
Nob.) 

Hob'bema. 

The  English  Hobbema.  John  Crome, 
the  elder  (of  Norwich),  whose  last  words 
were,  "O  Hobbema,  Hobbema,  how  I 
do  love  thee !  " 


The  Scotch  Hobbema.  P.  Nasmyth,  a 
Scotch  landscape  jiainter  (born  LS31). 

Hob'bididance  (4  syl.).  The  princo 
of  duml)ness,  and  one  of  the  five  fiends 
that  possessed  "poor  Tom."  {Shake- 
speare :  King  Lear,  iv.  1 . ) 

Hob'binol.  The  shepherd  (Gabriel 
Harvey,  the  poet,  1545-1()3())  who  re- 
lates a  song  in  praise  of  Eliza,  queen  of 
shei)hcrds  (Queen  Elizabeth).  {Spenser  : 
ShepIienVs  Calendar.) 

Hob'bism.  The  principles  of  Thomas 
Hobbes,  author  of  Leviathan  (1.588- 
1G70).  He  taught  that  religion  is  a 
mere  engine  of  state,  and  that  man  acts 
wholly  on  a  consideration  of  self  ;  even 
his  benevolent  acts  spring  from  the 
pleasure  he  experiences  in  doing  acts  of 
kindness.  A  follower  of  Hobbes  is 
called  a  Hcbbist. 

Hobbler  or  Clopinel.  Jean  de  Meung, 
the  poet,  who  wrote  the  sequel  to  the 
Jiomanee  of  the  Hose  {VlGO-V.i'lO). 

Tyrta^us,  the  Greek  elegiac  poet,  was 
called  Hobbler  because  he  introduced  the 
alternate  pentameter  verse,  which  is  one 
foot  short  of  the  old  heroic  metre. 

Hobby.  A  favourite  pursuit.  The 
hobbg  is  a  falcon  trained  to  fly  at  pigeons 
and  partridges.  As  hawks  were  uni- 
versal pets  in  the  days  of  falconry,  and 
hawking  the  favourite  pursuit,  it  is 
quite  evident  how  the  word  hobby  got 
its  present  meaning.  Hobby-horse  is  a 
corruption  of  Hobbg-hanse  (hawk-toss- 
ing), or  throvring  off  the  hawk  from  the 
wrist.  Hobby  is  applied  to  a  little  pet 
riding-horse  by  the  same  natural  trans- 
position as  a  mews  for  hawks  is  now  a 
place  for  horses.  (French,  hobcreait,  a 
hawk,  a  hobby.) 

Hobby-horse.  A  child's  plaything, 
so  called  from  the  hobby-horse  of  the 
ancient  morris-dance ;  a  light  frame  of 
wicker-work,  appropriately  draped,  in 
which  someone  was  placed,  who  jier- 
formed  ridiculous  gambols. 

"  The  hobby -borse  doth  liitlier  prance. 
Maid  Maiiiau  aud  the  Mollis  dauce." 

Hob'edy-hoig,  sometimes  written 
llob'bledehog  and  hobidg-hog,  between  a 
man  and  a  boy  ;  neither  hay  nor  grass. 
Tusser  saj^s  the  third  age  of  seven  years 
(15  to  21)  is  to  be  kept  "under  Sir 
Hobbard  de  Hoy." 

Hobgoblin.  Puck  or  Robin  Good- 
fellow.  Keightley  thinks  it  a  corrup- 
tion of  Rob-Goblin  —  i.e.  the  goblin 
Robin,  just  as  Hodge  is  the  nickname  of 


Hobinol 


611 


Hocking 


Eoger,  which  seems  to  agree  with  the 
subjoined  quotation : 

"  Tliose  tbat  Hobgoblin  call  you, and  sweet  Puck, 
you  do  tlieir  work,  and  they  shall  have  good 

luck." 
Shdkcfpcare:  Midsummer  Nitjht's  Dream,  li.  1. 

V  Hob  is  certainly  sometimes  used 
for  a  sprite  or  fairy,  as  a  hoh-hnitern — 
i.e.  au  ignis  fatuus  or  fairy-lantern,  but 
this  may  mean  a  "Puck-lantern"  or 
"  Robiu  Goodfellow-lauteru." 

Hob'inol.     {See  Hobbinol.) 

Eob'lers  or  Eovellers.    Men  who 

keep  a  light  nag  that  they  may  give  in- 
stant information  of  threatened  invasion, 
or  ugly  customers  at  sea.  (Old  Fieucli, 
hober,  to  move  up  and  down  ;  our  hohbij, 
q.r.)  lu  media; val  times  hoblers  were 
like  the  German  it /i lands.  Their  duties 
were  to  reconnoitre,  to  carry  intelligence, 
to  harass  stragglers,  to  act  as  spies,  to 
ihtercept  convoys,  and  to  pursue  fugi- 
tives. Spelman  derives  the  word  from 
hobbij. 

'•  Hobblors  were  another  description  of  cavalry 
more  lightly  armed,  and  taken  from  the  class  of 
men  rated  at  15  pounds  and  upwards."— iijiycu-d; 
Historii  of  England,  vol.  iv.  chap.  ii.  p.  I  Hi. 

"Sentinels  who  kept  watch  at  lie.icons  in  the 
Isle  of  Wi.irht,  and  i-an  !•)  tlie  gii\ernor  when 
they  had  aiiy  intellii-'ence  to  couimujiicate,  were 
called  hoble.s."— J/.S.  Lunsd.  (loxi). 

Hobnail.  WTien  the  London  sheriff 
is  sworn  iu,  the  tenants  of  a  manor  in 
Shropshire  are  directed  to  come  forth 
and  do  service,  whereupon  the  senior 
alderman  below  the  chair  steps  forward 
and  chops  a  stick,  in  token  that  the 
tenants  of  this  county  supplied  their 
feudal  lord  with  fuel. 

The  owners  of  a.  forge  in  St.  Clements 
are  then  called  forth  to  do  suit  and 
service,  when  an  officer  of  the  court 
produces  six  horse-shoes  and  sixty-one 
hobnails,  which  he  used  to  count  before 
the  cursitor  baron  till  that  office  was 
abolished  in  1857. 

Hob  Nob.  A  corruijtion  of  /lah  ixih, 
meaning  "have  or  not  have,"  hence  hit  or 
miss,  at  random  ;  and,  secondariIj%  give 
or  take,  whence  also  an  open  detiance. 
A  similar  construction  to  willy  nilly- 
(Anglo-Saxon,  habban,  to  have  ;  nabbuH, 
not  to  have.) 

"  The  citizens  in  their  ratre  shot  habbe  or  nabbe 
[hit  or  miss]  at  ra.n<imn.''—Uolinshed:  Uiatory  of 
Jretand. 

"  He  writes  of  the  weather  hab  nab  [at  random], 
and  as  the  toy  [fancy]  takes  him,  chociuers  the 
ye.ar  with  foul  and  t-An."—(Jiiack  Astroloyer  (U".::)). 

"He  is  a  devil  in  private  lirawis  ....  hobnob 
is  his  word,  give  't  or  take  't."—Shake>!peare : 
Twelfth  Night,  lii.  4. 
"  Not  of  Jack  Straw,  with  his  rebellious  crew. 

That  set  king,  realm,  and  laws  at  hab  or  nab 
[defiance]."    SirJ.Harington:  Fpigram,  i\'. 


Hob's  Pound.  To  he  in  Hob's  pound 
is  to  be  under  difficulties,  in  great  em- 
baiTassment.  Hob  is  a  clownish  rustic, 
and  hoberd  is  a  fool  or  ne'er-do-well. 
To  be  in  Hob's  pound  is  to  be  in  the 
pound  of  a  hob  or  hoberd — i.e.  paying 
for  one's  ioWy. 

Hobson's  Choice.  Tliis  or  none. 
Tobi'as  Hobson  was  a  carrier  and  inn- 
keeper at  Cambridge,  who  erected  the 
handsome  conduit  there,  and  settled 
"  seven  lays  "  of  pasture  ground  towards 
its  maintenance.  "  He  kejjt  a  stable  of 
forty  good  cattle,  always  ready  and  tit 
for  travelling ;  but  when  a  man  came 
for  a  horse  Ijc  was  led  into  the  stable, 
where  there  was  great  choice,  but  was 
obliged  to  take  the  horse  which  stood 
nearest  to  the  stable -door ;  so  that 
every  customer  was  alike  well  served, 
according  to  his  chance,  and  every  horse 
ridden  with  the  same  justice."  {Spec- 
tator. No.  509.) 

Milton  wrote  two  quibbling  epitaphs 

upon  this  eccentric  character. 

"  Why  is  the  preatesr.  of  frei  i-onimnnities  re- 
duced to  Hobson's  choice  ?  " — Tlie  Times. 

Hock.  So  called  from  Hockheim,  on 
the  Maine,  where  the  best  is  supposed 
to  be  made.  It  used  to  be  called  hocka- 
more  (3  syl.). 

".\s  unflt  to  bottle  as  old  hockamore."— Afor- 

timer. 

Hock  Cart.    The  high  cart,  the  last 
cart-load  of  harvest. 
"  The  harvest  swains  and  wenches  bound 
For  joy,  to  see  the  hock-cart  crowne<l." 

Ucrrick:  llesiierides,  p.  Hi. 

Hock-day  or  Hock  Tuesday.    The 

day  when  the  English  suqirised  and 
slew  the  Danes,  who  had  annoyed  them 
for  255  years.  This  Tuesday  was  long 
held  as  a  festival  in  England,  and  land- 
lords received  an  annual  tribute  called 
Jlock-monei/,  for  allowing  their  tenants 
and  serfs  to  commemorate  Hock- day, 
which  was  the  second  Tuesday  after 
Easter-day.  (See  Kcnilirorth,  chaj). 
xxxix.) 

•-•  Hock-tide  was  the  time  of  paying  church 
dues. 

"Hoke  Monday  was  for  the  men,  and  Hock 
Tuesday  for  the  women.  On  both  days  the  men 
and  wouien  alternately,  with  great  meri.vineiit 
obstructed  the  public  road  with  ropes, and  pulled 
passengers  to  them,  from  whcmi  they  exacted 
money  to  lie  laid  out  in  pious  uses." — Brand: 
Antiquities  iHoke  day;,  vol.  i.  p.  1»7. 

Hock'ey.  A  game  in  which  each 
player  has  a  hooked  stick  or  bandy  with 
which  to  strike  the  ball.  Hockey  is 
simply  the  diminutive  of  koo/:.  Called 
Shinty  in  Scotland. 

Hocking.  Stopping  the  highways 
with   ropes,  and  demanding  a  gratuity 


Hocliley 


612 


Hogmanay 


from  passengers  before  they  were  al- 
lowed to  pass.  (See  quotation  from 
Brand  midir  Hock-day.) 

Hockley-i'-the-Hole.  Public  gar- 
dens near  Clerkenwell  Green,  famous 
for  bear-  and  bull-baiting,  dog-  and 
cock-fights,  etc.  The  earliest  record  of 
this  garden  is  a  little  subsequent  to  the 
Restoration. 

Hocus  Po'cus.  The  words  uttered 
by  a  conjuror  wlien  he  performs  a  trick, 
to  cheat  or  take  surreptitiously.  Tlie 
"Welsh,  /locea  puca  (a  goblin's  trick,  our 
hoax)  is  a  probable  etymology.  But 
generally  supposed  to  be  Hoc  est  corpus. 

"  Ochus  Bochus  was  the  name  of  a 
famous  magician  of  the  North  invoked 
by  jugglers.  He  is  mentioned  in  the 
French  Royal  Lictiiinary. 

Ho'cussed.  Hoaxed,  cheated,  tam- 
pered with  ;  as,"Tliis  wine  is  hocussed." 

"  Was  ever  man  so  hocussed  ?" 

Art  of  Wheedllnj,  p.  3L'2. 

Eod'eken  (3  syl.)  means  Littlc-hat, 
a  German  goblin  or  domestic  fairy;  so 
called  because  he  always  wore  a  little 
felt  hat  over  his  face.     Our  hudkin. 

Hodge.  A  generic  name  for  a  farm- 
labourer  or  peasant.  (Said  to  be  an 
abbreviated  foim  of  Roger,  as  Hob  is  of 
Rob  or  Robin. ) 

"  Proiiise^  Leld  out  in  order  to  pain  the  roteo 
of  the  agricultural  lahourers  :  promises  given 
simply  to  obtain  the  vote  of  •  Hodge"  who  will 
sociM  Hiiil  out  that  his  vote  was  all  that  was 
wauted.'— *Veu)S//n;)er  paragraph,  Dec,  18«5. 

Hodge-podge  (2  syl.) . "  A  medley. 
A  corruption  of  hotch-pot,  i.e.  various 
fragments  mixed  together  in  the  "pot- 
au-feu."     (.bVe- Hotch-pot.) 

Ho'dur.  Balder's  twin  brother  ;  the 
God  of  Darkness  ;  the  blind  god  -who 
killed  Balder,  at  the  instigation  of  Loki, 
wdth  an  arrow  made  of  mistletoe.  Hodur 
typifies  night,  as  Balder  typifies  day. 
{^Scandinavian  mythologn.') 

"  And  Balder's  pile  of  the  glowing  sun 

A  syniliol  true  hiazed  forth  ; 
But  soon  its  splendour  sinketh  down 

When  Hiider  rules  the  earth."" 
/  t'rilhiiff-Sarja:  lialdtr's  Bale- Fire. 

Hog,  meaning  a  piece  of  money,  is 
any  silver  coin — sixpence,  shilling,  or 
five-shilling.  It  is  probably  derived 
from  the  largess  given  on  New  Year's 
Eve  called  hog-manay,  pronounced  hog- 
inoney. 

V  In  the  Bermudas  the  early  coins 
bore  the  image  of  a  hog. 

Hog  seems  to  refer  to  age  more  than 
to  any  specific  animal.  Thus,  boars  of 
the  second  year,  sheeji  between  the  time 


of  their  being  weaned  and  shorn,  colts, 
and  bullocks  a  year  old,  are  all  called 
hogs  or  hoggets.  A  boar  three  years  old 
is  a  "  hog-steer." 

V  Some  say  a  hogget  is  a  sheep  after 
its  first  shearing,  but  a  "  hogget-fleece  " 
is  the  first  shearing. 

'To  go  the  nholc  hog.  An  American 
expression  meaning  unmixed  dcmocrati- 
cal  principles.  It  is  used  in  England  to 
signify  a  "  thorough  goer"  of  any  kind. 
In  Virginia  the  dealer  asks  tlie  retail 
butcher  if  "he  means  to  go  the  whole 
hog,  or  to  take  only  certain  joints,  and 
he  regulates  his  price  accordingly." 
(^Men  and  Manners  of  America.) 

V  Mahomet  forbade  his  followers  to 
eat  one  part  of  the  pig,  but  did  not  par- 
ticularise what  part  he  intended.  Hence, 
strict  Mahometans  abstain  from  pork 
altogether,  but  those  less  scrupulous  eat 
any  part  they  fancy.  Cowper  refers  to 
this  in  the  lines : 

"  with  sophistry  their  sauce  they  sweeten, 
Till  (luite  from  tail  to  snout  'tis  eaten." 

Love  of  tlie  World  lie  iiiored. 

Another  explanation  is  this  :  A  hog  in 
Ireland  is  slang  for  "  a  shilling,"  and  to 
go  the  whole  hog  means  to  spend  the 
whole  shilling.     {See  Hoo.) 

You  liare  brought  your  hogs  to  a  fne 
market.  You  have  made  a  pretty  kettle 
of  fish. 

"You  have  hrought  your  hogs  to  a  fine  market." 
—Ilou-etl  ilSSa). 

Hogs-Norton.  A  village  in  Oxford- 
shire, now  called  Hook  Norton.  I  think 
yon  were  born  at  Hogs-Xorton.  A  re- 
proof to  an  ill-mannered  person. 

"I  think  thou  wast  born  at  Hoggs-Norton, 
where  pings  play  upon  the  organs."— ifou-eK ; 
llnglish  Proveils,  p.  16. 

Hog  in  Armour.  A  person  of 
awkward  manners  dressed  so  fine  that 
he  cannot  move  easily.  A  corruption  of 
"  Hodge  in  ai"mour.' 

Hogg.   (See  under  the  ivord  Beewee.) 

Hogarth  {irHliam),  called  the  "Ju- 
venal of  Bainters"  (1695-1761).  The 
Scottiah  Hogarth,  David  Allan  (1744- 
1796). 

Ho' gen  Mo'gen.  Holland  or  the 
Netherlands ;  so  called  from  Hooge  en 
Mogendi-  (high  and  mighty),  the  Dutch 
style  of  addi-essing  the  States-General. 

"  But  I  have  sent  him  for  a  token 
To  your  Low-country  Hogen-Mocren." 

Butler:  Hudibrns. 

Hogmanay',  Hogmena',  or  Hag< 
men' a.    Holy  month. 

New  Year's  Eve  is  called  hogmanay', 
night  or  hogg-night,  and  it  is  still  the 


H^ogshead 


613 


Hold  In 


custom  in  parts  of  Scotland  for  persons 
to  go  from  door  to  door  on  that  night 
asking  in  rude  rhymes  for  cakes  or 
money.     {See  HoG.) 

In  Galloway  the  chief  features  are 
"  taking  the  cream  off  the  watir,"  won- 
derful luck  being  attached  to  a  draught 
thereof;  and  "the  first  foot,"  or  giving 
something  to  drink  to  the  first  person 
who  enters  the  house.  A  grand  bonfire 
and  a  procession,  in  which  all  persons 
are  masked  and  in  bizarre  costume. 

King  Ilaco,  of  Norway,  fixed  the  feast 
of  Yole  on  Christmas  Day,  the  eve  of 
wh'ch  used  to  be  called  hogg-night, 
which  in  the  old  style  is  New  Year's 
Eve. 

Hogshead,  a  large  cask  =  i-pipo 
or  butt,  is  a  curious  instance  of  the 
misuse  of  h.  The  word  is  from  the 
Danish  Oxe-hud  (ox-hide),  the  larger 
skins  in  contradistinction  to  the  smaller 
goat  skins.  An  oxe-hud  contained  240 
Danish  quarts. 

Hoi  PoUoi  {The).  The  poll -men  in 
our  Universities,  that  is,  those  who  take 
their  degrees  without  "honours."  The 
proletariat.  (Greek,  meaning  "  the 
many,"  "  the  general.") 

Hoist.  Ilo'xfit  with  his  own  petard. 
Beaten  with  his  own  weapons,  caught 
in  his  own  trap.  The  petard  was 
a  thick  iron  engine,  filled  with  gun- 
powder, and  fastened  to  gates,  barri- 
cades, and  so  on,  to  blow  them  up. 
The  danger  was  lest  the  engineer  who 
fired  the  petard  should  be  blown  up  in 
the  explosion. 

"Let  it  work ; 
For  'tis  tlie  sport  to  have  the  en{<ineer 
Hoist  with  his  own  iietard  ;  and  it  shall  go  hard 
But  I  will  delve  one  yard  below  their  mines. 
And  blow  them  at  the  moon." 

Shakespeare:  Hamlet,  iii.  4. 

Hoity-toity. 

(1)  Hoity-toity  spirits  means  high 
Bpirits,  extremely  elated  and  flighty. 
Selden,  in  his  I'able  Tal/c,  says:  "In 
Queen  Elizabeth's  time  gravity  and  state 
were  kept  up  .  .  .  but  in  King  Charles's 
time  there  was  nothing  but  Frenchmore 
[French  manners]  .  .  .  tolly-polly,  and 
/loit-coinme-toit,^'  where  hoit  commc  toit 
means  flightiness. 

(2)  As  an  exclamation  of  reproof  it 
means,  Your  imagination  or  spirits  are 
running  out  of  all  bounds  ;  hoit-a-toit ! 
hity-tity!  "Hoity-toity!  What  have 
I  to  do  with  dreams?"     {Coiu/rere.) 

We  have  the  verb  "  to  hoit"  =  to 
assume ;  to  be  elated  in  spirits,  and 
perhaps  hoity-toity  is  only  one  of  those 
words  with  which  our  language  abounds ; 


as,  harum-scarum,  titty-totty,  namby- 
pamby,  hugger-mugger,  fiddle-faddle, 
and  scores  of  others. 

Hoky  or  Hockey  Cake.  Harvest 
cake.  The  cake  given  out  to  the  har- 
vesters when  the  hock  cart  reached 
home.     {See  Hock  Caet.) 

Holborn  is  not  a  corruption  of  Old 
Bourne,  as  Stowe  asserts,  but  of  Hole- 
burne,  the  biiriie  or  stream  in  the  ho/e  or 
hollow.  It  is  spelt  Holebume  in  Jhmes- 
dai/  Hook,  i.  r27a ;  and  in  docimients 
connected  with  the  nunnery  of  St. 
Mary,  Clerkenwell  (during  the  reign  of 
Richard  II.),  it  is  eight  times  spelt  in 
the  same  way.  {'J'he  'Times;  J.  G. 
Waller.) 

lie  rode  baekicards  up  HoUwrii  Hill. 
He  went  to  be  hanged.  The  way  to 
Tyburn  from  Newgate  was  up  Holborn 
Hill,  and  criminals  in  ancient  times  sat 
with  their  backs  to  the  horse,  when 
drawn  to  the  place  of  execution. 

Hold  of  a  ship  is  between  the  lowest 
deck  and  the  keel.  In  merchant  vessels 
it  holds  the  main  part  of  the  cargo.  In 
men  of  war  it  holds  the  provisions,  water 
for  drinking,  etc.,  stores,  and  berths. 
The  after  hold  is  aft  the  main-mast;  the 
main  hold  is  before  the  same ;  and  the 
fore  hold  is  about  the  fore  hatches. 

Hold.  (Anglo-Saxon,  heald-an,.  to 
hold.) 

He  is  not  ft  to  hold  the  candle  to  him. 
He  is  very  inferior.  The  allusion  is  to 
link-boys  who  held  candles  in  theatres 
and  other  places  of  night  amusement. 

"  Others  say  that  Mr.  Hand"! 
To  Boiiocini  can't  hold  a  candle."    Swift. 

To  cry  hold.  Stop.  The  allusion  is 
to  the  old  military  tournaments ;  when 
the  umpires  wished  to  stop  the  contest 
they  cried  out  "  Hold  !  " 

"  Lay  on  Macduff, 
And   damn'd    he    him   that    first    cries,   '  Hold, 
enough  ! ' "  Shakespeare  :  Macbeth,  v.'  8. 

Hold  Forth  {To).  To  speak  in  public ; 
to  harangue ;  to  declaim.  An  author 
holds  forth  certain  opinions  or  ideas  in 
his  book,  i.e.  exhibits  them  or  holds  them 
out  to  view.  A  speaker  does  the  same  in 
an  oratorical  display. 

Hold  Hard.  Keep  a' firm  hold,  seat, 
or  footing,  as  there  is  danger  else  of 
being  overthrown.  A  caution  given 
when  a  sudden  change  of  vis  inertia  is 
about  to  occur. 

Hold  In  (To).  To  restrain.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  horses  reined  up  tightly  when 
running  too  fast . 


Hold  Off 


GU 


Holy  City- 


Hold  Off!    Keep  at  a  distance.    In 

French,  "  'Totez-vous  a  distance  !  " 

Hold  On.    Cling  fast ;  to  persist.    The 

idea  is  clinging  firmly  to  something  to 

prevent  falling  or  being  overset. 

Holdout.  Not  to  succumb  to.  "T(«ir 

ferine  ;  "  "  Cette  place  ne  naurmt  tenlr.''^ 

Hold  Water  (To).  To  bear  close 
inspection  ;  to  endure  a  trial.  A  vessel 
that  will  hold  water  is  safe  and  sound. 

Hold  One  Guilty  (To).  To  adjudge 
or  regard  as  guilty.     The  French  tenir. 

Hold  One  in  Hand  (To).  To  amuse 
in  order  to  get  some  advantage.  The 
allusion  is  to  horses  held  in  hand  or 
under  command  of  the  driver. 

Hold  One's  Own  {To).  To  main- 
tain one's  own  ojjinion,  position,  way, 
etc.  Maintain  means  to  hold  with  the 
hand.     (Latin,  manns  teneo.) 

Hold  the  Fort.  Immortalised  as 
a  phrase  from  its  use  by  General  Sher- 
man, who  signalled  it  to  General  Corse 
from  the  top  of  Kenesaw  in  1864, 

Holdfast.  Brag  is  a  good  dog,  hut 
Holdfast  is  a  better.  Promises  are  all 
very  good,  but  acts  are  far  better. 

"Holdfast  is  tbc  only  dog,  my  duck." 

Shakespeare  :  IJenry  I'.,  ii.  3. 

Holdfast.  A  means  by  which  some- 
thing is  clamped  to  another  ;  a  support. 

Hole,     rick  a  hole  in.  his  coat.     To 
find  out  some  cause  of  blame.    The  allu- 
sion is  to  the  Roman  custom  of  dressing 
criminals  in  i"ags  {Livg,  ii.  01).     Hence, 
a  holey  coat  is  a  synonym  for  guilt. 
"  Hear,  Land  o'  cakes  and  brither  Soot3 
i'rae  Maidenkiik  to  Jolinny  (Croat's 
If  there's  a  bole  in  a"  your  coats 

I  reiieyou  tent  it ; 
A  cliield'8  amans,'  you  taking  notes, 
And,  faith,  he'll  preiit  it." 
Burns  :  On  the  late  Capt.  Grose,  stanza  1. 

Hole  and  Corner  (business).  Under- 
hand and  secret. 

Holiday  Speeches  or  Words.  Fine 
or  well-turned  speeches  or  phrases ;  com- 
plimentary speeches.  We  have  also 
"holiday  manners,"  "holiday  clothes," 
meaning  the  best  we  have. 

"  Aye,  aye,  sir.  I  know  your  worship  loves  no 
holiday  speeches."— Sir  W.  Scott:  Itedyauntlet, 
chai).  iii. 

"  With  many  holiday  and  lady  terms 
He  <iuestioned  me." 
Shakcspeure :  1  Henry  /r.,i.  3  (Hotspur's  defence). 

Holipher'nes  (4  syl.),  called  English 
Henry  (in  Jcrusa/ciii.  Delirercd).  One 
of  the  Christian  knights  in  the  first 
crusade,  slaiu  by  Dragu'tes  (book  ix.). 


Holland.  The  country  of  paradoxes. 
The  "houses  are  built  on  the  sand;" 
the  sea  is  higher  than  the  shore ;  the 
keels  of  the  ships  are  above  the  chira- 
ney-tops  of  the  houses;  and  the  cow's 
tail  does  not  "grow  downward,"  but  is 
tied  up  to  a  ring  iu  the  roof  of  the  stable. 
Butler  calls  it : 

"  A  land  that  rides  at  anchor  and  is  moored. 
la  which  they  do  not  live,  but  ko  aboard.' 
Description  of  Holland. 

(See  also  Don  .Juan,  canto  x.  G3.) 

HoUand.  A  particular  kind  of  cloth  ; 
so  called  because  it  used  to  be  sent  to 
Holland  to  be  bleached.  Lawn  is  cloth 
bleached  on  a  lawn;  and  grass-lairn  is 
lawn  bleached  on  a  grass-plat. 

Bleaching  is  now  performed  by  arti- 
ficial processes. 

Hollow.  /  beat  him  hvlloir.  A  cor- 
ruiition  of  "I  beat  him  wholly." 

Holly  used  to  be  emjjloj'cd  by  the 
early  Christians  at  Rome  to  decojate 
churches  and  dwellings  at  Christmas  ;  it 
had  been  previously  used  in  the  great 
festival  of  the  Saturnalia,  which  occurred 
at  the  same  season  of  the  year.  The 
pagan  Romans  used  to  send  to  their 
friends  holly-sprigs,  during  the  Satur- 
nalia, with  wishes  for  their  health  and 
well-being. 

Hollyhock  is  the  Anglo-Saxon,  holi- 
hOc,  the  marsh-mallow.  It  is  a  mistake 
to  derive  it  from  Holy-oak. 

Holman  {Lieutenant  James).  The 
blmd  traveller  (1787-18o7). 

Holopher'nes  (4  syl.).  JFaster  Tubal 
Llolophernes.  The  great  sophister-doctor, 
who,  in  the  course  of  five  years  and  three 
months,  taught  Gargantua  to  say  his 
ABC  backward.  {Rabelais  :  Gargantua, 
book  i.  14.) 

Lloloferncs,  in  Lovers  Labo>rr\'i  Lost. 
Shakespeare  satirises  in  this  character 
the  literary  afltectations  of  the  Lyly 
school.     An  anagram  of  Joh'nes  Florio. 

Holy  Alliance.  A  league  formed 
by  Russia,  Austria,  and  Prussia  to  regui- 
late  the  affairs  of  Europe  "  by  the  prin- 
ciples of  Christian  charity," — meaning 
that  each  of  the  contracting  parties  was 
to  keep  all  that  the  league  assigned 
them  (1810). 

Holy  City.  That  city  which  the 
religious  consider  most  especially  con- 
nected with  their  religious  faith,  thus  : 

All'ahabad'  is  the  Holy  City  of  the 
Indian  Mahometans. 

Bena'res  (3  syl. )  of  the  Hindus. 

Cuzco  of  the  ancient  Incas. 


Holy  Coat 


615, 


Holy  Writ 


Fez  of  the  Western  Arabs. 

Jerusalem  of  the  Jews  and  Christians. 

Kairwau,  near  Tunis.  It  contains  the 
Okbar  Mosque,  in  which  is  the  tomb  of 
the  propliet's  barber. 

Kief,  the  Jerusalem  of  Russia,  the 
cradle  of  Christianity  in  that  country. 

Mecca  and  Medina  of  the  Mahometans. 

Moscow  and  Kief  of  the  Russians. 

Solovetsk,  in  the  Frozen  Sea,  is  a  holy 
Island  much  visited  by  pilgrims. 

Holy  Coat  of  Treves,  said  to  be  the 
seamless  coat  of  our  Saviour.  Deposited 
at  Treves  by  the  Empress  Hele'na,  who 
discovered  it  in  the  fourth  centurj'. 

Holy  Communion  {The).  The  fel- 
lowship of  Christians  manifested  by 
their  mutual  partaking  of  the  eucharist. 
The  eucharist  itself  is,  by  a  figure  of 
speccli,  so  called. 

Holy  Family.  The  infant  Saviour 
and  his  attendants,  as  Josejjh,  Miiry, 
Elizabeth,  Anna,  and  John  the  Baptist. 
All  the  five  figures  are  not  always 
introduced  in  pictures  of  the  "  Holy 
Family." 

Holy  Isle.  Lindisfame,  in  the  Ger- 
man Ocean,  about  eight  miles  from  Ber- 
wick-upon-Tweed. It  was  once  the  see 
of  the  famous  St.  Cuthbert,  but  now  the 
bishopric  is  that  of  Dm'ham.  Tlie  ruuis 
of  the  old  cathedral  are  still  visible. 

Ireland  used  to  be  called  the  Holy 
Island  on  account  of  its  numerous 
"saints." 

Guernsey  was  so  called  in  the  tenth 
century  in  consequence  of  the  great 
number  of  monks  residing  there. 

Rugen  was  so  called  by  the  Slavonic 
Varini. 

Scattery,  to  which  St.  Senanus  re- 
tired, and  swore  that  no  female  should 
set  foot  there,  is  the  one  referred  to  by 
Thomas  Moore  in  his  Irish  Melodies, 
No.  ii.  2. 

"  oil  !  baste  and  leave  tUis  sacred  isle 
L        ...  For  on  tliy  deck  though  dark  it  be, 
i  A  female  form  I  see. 

Holy  Land  {TJu). 

(1)  Christians  call  Palestrae  the  Holy 
Land,  because  it  was  the  site  of  Christ's 
biith,  ministry,  and  death. 

(2)  Mahometans  call  Mecca  the  Holy 
Land,  because  Mahomet  was  bom  there. 

(3)  The  Chinese  Buddhists  call  India 
the  Holy  Land,  because  it  was  the 
native  land  of  Sakj-a-muni,  the  Buddha 

{q.V.). 

(4)  The  Greek  considered  Elis  as  Holy 
Land,  from  the  temple  of  Olympian  Zeus 


and  the  sacred  festival  held  there  every 
four  years. 

(o)  In  America  each  of  the  strange 
politico-religious  sects  calls  its  own  settle- 
ment pretty  much  the  same  thing.  [See 
Holy  City.) 

Holy  League  {'The).  A  combination 
formed  by  Pope  Julius  II.  with  Louis 
XII.  of  France,  Maximilian  of  Germany, 
Ferdinand  III.  of  Spain,  and  various 
Italian  princes,  against  the  republic  of 
Venice  in  1508. 

There  was  another  league  so  called  in 
the  reign  of  Henri  III.  of  France,  in 
1576,  under  the  auspices  of  Henri  de 
Guise,  "for  the  defence  of  the  Holy 
Catholic  Church  against  the  encroach- 
ments of  the  reformers."  The  Pope  gave 
it  his  sanction,  but  its  true  strength  lay 
in  Felipe  II.  of  Spain. 

Holy  Orders,  in  the  English  Church, 
are  those  of  priest  and  deacon.  In  the 
Roman  Church  the  term  includes  the 
sub-diaconate.     {!See  Minor  Oedees.) 

Holy  Places.  Places  in  which  the 
chief  events  of  oiu-  Saviour's  life  oc- 
curred, such  as  the  Sepidchre,  Geth- 
semane,  the  Supper-room,  the  Church  of 
the  Ascension,  the  tomb  of  the  Virgin, 
and  so  on. 

Holy  Thursday.     The  day  of  our 

Lord's  ascension. 

Holy  Saturday.  The  Saturday  before 
Easter  Sunday. 

Holy  Wars  arc  to  extiri5ate"heresj'," 
or  to  extend  what  the  state  supposes  to 
be  the  one  true  religion.  The  Crusades, 
the  Thu'ty- Years'  War,  the  wars  against 
the  Albigenses,  etc.,  were  so  called. 

Holy  Water.  Water  blessed  by  a 
priest  or  bishop  for  holy  uses. 

As  the  devil  lores  holy  irater ;  i.e.  not 
at  all.  This  proverb  arose  from  the  em- 
ployment of  holy  water  in  exorcisms  in 
the  Holy  Chui'ch. 

"  I  love  Uim  as  tbe  devil  loves  holy  water." 

Holy  Week.  The  last  seven  days  of 
Passion  Week  or  the  Great  Week.  It 
begins  on  Palm  Sunday,  and  ends  with 
Holy  Saturday  {q.r.).  The  fourth  day  is 
called  "Spy  Wednesday  ;  "  the  fifth  is 
"Maundy  Thursday;"  the  sixth  is 
"Good  Friday;"  and  the  last  "Holy 
Saturday  "  or  the  "  Great  Sabbath." 

Holy  Week  has  been  called  Ilebdomada  Muta 
(Silent  Week)  ;  Hebdomad'i Pussimiis ; Hebdomiula 
Jiufflciosa  (Vacant  Week)  ;  Ilebdomada  Peniten- 
tiatis  ;  Hehdomada  Indulgentice :  Hebdomada  Lue- 
fud.ta;  lltbdomada,  Nigra;  and  Hebdomada  L'l- 
tima. 

Holy  Writ.    The  Bible.' 


Soly  Maid 


6l(? 


Homer's  Critica 


Holy  Maid  of  Kent  (The).  Eliza- 
beth Barton,  who  iucited  the  Komau 
Cathohcs  to  resist  the  progress  of  the 
Reformation,  and  pretended  to  act  under 
direct  inspiration.  She  was  hanged  at 
Tyburn  in  lo34. 

Holy  of  Holies  {The).  The  inner- 
most apartment  of  tlie  Jewisli  temple, 
in  which  the  ark  of  the  covenant  was 
kept,  and  into  which  only  the  High 
Priest  was  allowed  to  enter,  and  that 
but  once  a  j'ear — the  d;iy  of  atonement. 

Holy  Water  Sprinkler.  A  military 
club  set  with  spikes.  So  called  facetiously 
because  it  makes  the  blood  to  flow  as 
water  sprinkled  by  an  aspergillum. 

Holywell  Street  (London).  Fitz- 
stephens,  in  his  description  of  London 
in  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  speaks  of 
"  the  excellent  springs  at  a  small  dis- 
tance from  the  city,"  whose  waters  are 
most  sweet,  salubrious,  and  clear,  and 
whose  runnels  mumiur  over  the  shining 
stones.  "Among  these  are  Holywell, 
Clerkenwell,  and  St.  Clement's  well." 

Holystone.  A  soft  sandstone  used 
for  scrubbing  the  decks  of  vessels. 

Home  (1  syl.).    (Anglo-Sa.xon,  ham.) 

Our  long  home,  the  grave. 

Wlio  goes  home  ?  When  the  House 
of  Commons  breaks  up  at  night  the 
door-keeper  asks  this  (juestion  of  the 
members.  In  bygone  days  all  members 
going  in  the  direction  of  the  Speaker's 
residence  went  in  a  body  to  see  him  safe 
home.  The  tpiestion  is  still  asked,  but 
is  a  mere  relic  of  antiquity. 

Home,  Sweet  Home.  Words  by 
John  Howard  Payne  (an  American),  in- 
troduced in  the  melodrama  called  The 
Maid  of  ililau. 

Homer. 

Called  Melesigenes  [q.r.)  ;  the  Man  of 
Chios  {see  Chios)  ;  the  Blind  Old  Man  ; 
Maeon'ides  {q.v.),  or  Mfeouius,  either 
from  his  father  Mteon,  or  because  he 
was  a  native  of  Masonia  (Lydia).  He  is 
spoken  of  as  3l<eonii(s  senex,  and  his 
poems  as  Mcconice  chartce  or  Mcconia 
cavDilna. 

The  Casket  Homer.  An  edition  cor- 
rected by  Aristotle,  which  Alexander 
the  Great  nlways  carried  about  with 
him,  and  laid  under  his  pillow  at  night 
with  his  sword.  After  the  battle  of 
Arbe'la,  a  golden  casket  richly  studded 
with  gems  was  found  in  the  tent  of 
Darius ;  and  Alexander  being  asked  to 
what  purpose  it  should  be  assigned,  re- 
plied, "There  is  but  one  thing  in  the 
world  worthy  of  so  costly  a  depository," 


saying  which  he  placed  therein  his 
edition  of  Homer. 

The  British  Homer.  Milton  (1608-74). 

The  Celtic  Hnmer.  Ossian,  son  of 
Fingal,  King  of  Morven. 

The  Homer  of  dramatie poets.  Shake- 
speare is  so  called  by  Dryden.  (1564- 
1616.) 

"  Sliiikrspeiire  w.is  tlic  Hmiier  of  our  ilratimtio 
jioets  ;  Jonsoii  w;is  tlie  Viri-'il.  I  iuliuire  rare  Ueii, 
liiit  1  love  Shakcsiiorire."— i)rj/</oi. 

Jfomer  of  Ferra'ra.  Ariosto  is  so 
called  by  Tasso  (1174-1533). 

Homer  of  tlie  Franks.  Charlemagne 
called  Angilbert  his  Homer  (died  814). 

'The  Oriental  Homer.  Firdusi,  the 
Persian  poet,  who  wrote  the  Chdk 
Kdmeh  (or  history  of  the  Persian  kings). 
It  contains  120,000  verses,  and  was  the 
work  of  thirty  years  (940-1020). 

The  Homer  of  philosophers.  Plato 
(B.C.  429-347). 

The  prose  Homer  of  human  nature. 
Henry  Fielding;  so  called  by  Byron. 
(1707-1768.) 

The  Scottish  Homer.  William  Wilkie, 
author  of  The  Jipigoniad  (1721-1772). 

Homer  a  Cure  for  the  Ague.    It 

was  an  old  superstition  that  if  the  fourth 
book  of  the  J  Had  was  laid  under  the 
head  of  a  patient  suffering  from  quartan 
ague  it  would  cure  him  at  once. 
Serenus  Sammonlcus,  preceptor  of  Gor- 
dian  and  a  noted  physician,  vouches  for 
this  remedy. 

"  Ma'oniic  Ili:uli>s  iinarluiii  supiione  tinienti." 
— Priecerta  cle  McdiriiiK,  SO. 

V  The  subject  of  this  book  is  as 
follows:  While  Agamemnon  adjudges 
that  Menelaos  is  the  winner,  and  that 
the  Trojans  were  bound  to  yield,  ac- 
cording to  their  compact,  Pandaros 
draws  his  bow,  wounds  Menelaos,  and 
the  battle  becomes  general.  The  reason 
why  this  book  was  selected  is  because 
it  contains  the  cure  of  Menelaos  by 
Machaou,  "a  son  of  JEsculapius. " 

Homer  in  a  Nutshell.  Cicero  says 
that  he  himself  saw  Homer's  Iltad 
enclosed  in  a  nutshell. 

Homer  Sometimes  Nods. 

"guando'iiiic  l.oinis  (loniii'tat  Home'riis." 
Horace  :  Ars  I'ociica  (.'iSii) 

Homer's  Critics. 

Dorotheus  spent  his  whole  life  ti7ing 
to  elucidate  one  single  word  of  Homer. 

Zoilos  (3  syl.),  the  grammarian,  was 
called  "  Homer's  Scourge  "  {Homero- 
mastix),  because  he  assailed  the  Iliad 
and  Odysseg  with  merciless  severity. 

As  some  deny  that  Shakespeare  is  the 
author  of  the  plays  which  are  generally 


Homeric 


61?, 


Honeymoon 


ascribed  to  him,  so  Wolf,  a  German 
critic  (17o9-18'24),  iu  his  I'rolegonicna  ad 
Homentm,  denies  that  Homer  was  the 
author  of  tlie  Iliad  and  Odysseij. 

Homer'ic  Verse.  Hexameter  verse ; 
so  called  because  Homer  adopted  it  iu 
his  two  great  epics.  {See  Hexameter 
Veese.  ) 

Homoeop'athy  (osyl.).  The  plan  of 
curing  a  disease  by  very  minute  doses 
of  a  medicine  which  would  iu  healthy 
persons  produce  the  very  same  disease. 
The  principle  of  vaccination  is  a  sort  of 
homceopathy,  only  it  is  producing  in 
a  healthy  person  a  mitigated  form  of 
the  disease  guarded  against.  You  im- 
part a  mild  fonn  of  small-pox  to  prevent 
the  patient  from  taking  the  virulent 
disease.  (Greek,  ftomoios  pathos,  like 
disease.)     {See  Hahnemann.) 

'"Tut,  man  !   one  fire  burns  out  anotliei-'s  burn- 
ing ! 
One  pain  is  lessened  by  another's  anguish  .... 
Talie  thou  some  new  infection  to  the  eye, 
And  the  rank  poison  of  tlie  old  will  die." 

Shakespeare :  Jiomeo  and  Juliet,  1.  2. 

Hon'est  (A  silent).  Ho)iest  Jack  Ban- 
nister. An  actor  iu  London  for  thirty- 
six  years.     (1760-1836.) 

"  After  his  retirement  he  was  once  accosted  by 
Sir  Geiirge  Rcise,  when  Honest  Jacls,  being  on  the 
other  side  uf  the  street,  rried  out, 'Stoijaiiiouient, 
Sir  tieiirure,  ami  1  will  cume  over  to  you.'  '  No,  no,' 
replied  liis  fnciid,  '  1  never  yet  made  you  cruKS, 
and  will  uui  Ipcgiu  iiii\v."—<li-insted :  liilics  uf 
Oenius. 

Honest     George.       General    Monk 

(1608-1670). 

Honest  Lawyer  (Ah).  The  oldest 
allusion  to  this  strange  expression  is  the 
epigram  on  St.  Ives  (12)l-i;303),  of 
whom  Dom  Lobineau  says :  "  II  distri- 
buait  avec  une  sainte  profusion  aux 
pauvres  les  revenus  de  son  benefice  et  ccux 
de  son  patrimonie,  qui  etaieni  de  t60  de 
rente,  alors  une  somme  tres  notable,  par- 
ticulierement  en  Basse  Brefaffne."  (lives 
of  the  Saints  of  Great  Britain.) 
"  Sanctus  Yvo  erat  Brito, 

Advdcatus,  et  non  Jatro, 

Res  miranda  iiopulo." 

St.  Ives  was  of  the  land  of  beef. 

An  advocate,  and  not  a  thief  ; 

A  stretch  on  popular  belief.       E.  C.  B. 

The  phrase  was  facetiously  applied  by 
some  wag  to  Sir  John  Strange,  Master 
of  the  Rolls,  who  died,  at  the  age  of 
fifty-eight,  iu  1754. 
"Here  lies  an  himest  lawyer,  that  is  Strange." 
V  Of  course  this  line  fonns  no  part  of 
the  inscription  in  Leyton  churchyard, 
Essex,  where  Sir  John  was  bm'ied. 

Honey  Madness.  There  is  a  rho- 
dodendron about  Trebizond,  the  flowers 
of  which  the  bees  are  fond  of,  but  if 


anyone  eats  the  honey  he  becomes  mad, 
{Tourneford.) 

Honey  Soap  contains  no  portion  of 
honey.  Some  is  made  from  the  finest 
yellow  soap ;  and  some  is  a  mixture  of 
pabn-oil  soap,  oUve-soap,  and  curd- 
soap.  It  is  scented  with  oil  of  verbena, 
rose-geranium,  ginger-grass,  bergamot, 
etc. 

Honey  better  than  Vinegar.   "  On 

preiid  plus  de  inouches  iirec  du  miel, 
qu\irec  du  rinait/re.'"  '■'■Plus  fait  douceur 
que  violence.''^  '■'■  11  faut  avoir  maueaisc 
bete  par  douceur.'''' 

It  is  better  to  be  preserved  in  vinegar 
than  to  rot  in  honey.  It  is  better  to 
suffer  affliction  if  thereby  the  heart  is 
brought  to  God,  than  to  lose  body  and 
soul  by  worldly  indulgences. 

Honeycomb.  The  hexagonal  shape 
of  the  bees'  cells  is  generally  ascribed  to 
the  instinctive  skill  of  the  bee,  but  is 
simply  the  ordinary  result  of  mechanical 
laws.  Solitary  bees  always  make  circular 
cells  ;  and  without  doubt  those  of  hive 
bees  are  made  cylindrical,  but  acquire 
their  hexagonal  form  by  mechanical 
pressure.  Dr.  Wollaston  says  all  cylin- 
ders made  of  soft  pliable  materials 
become  hexagonal  under  such  circum- 
stances. The  cells  of  trees  are  circular 
towards  the  extremity,  but  liexagonal  iu 
the  centre  of  the  substance ;  and  the 
cellular  membranes  of  all  vegetables  are 
hexagonal  also.     (See  AyiT.) 

If'tll  Ilonciicomb.  A  fine  gentleman. 
One  of  the  members  of  the  imaginary 
club  from  which  the  Spectator  issued. 

Honeyde'w.  A  sweet  substance 
found  on  lime-trees  and  some  other 
plants.  Bees  antl  ants  are  fontl  of  it. 
It  is  a  curious  misnomer,  as  it  is  the 
excretion  of  the  aphis  or  vine-fretter. 
The  way  it  is  excreted  is  this  :  the  ant 
beats  with  its  anteimse  the  abdomeu  of 
the  aphis,  which  lifts  up  the  part  beaten, 
and  excretes  a  limpid  drop  of  sweet 
juice  called  honeydew. 

Honeymoon.  The  month  aftei* 
marriage,  or  so  much  of  it  as  is  spent 
away  from  home  ;  so  called  from  tlie 
practice  of  the  ancient  Teutons  of  drink- 
ing honey-wine  (hydromd)  for  thirty 
days  after  marriage.  Attila,  the  Hun, 
indulged  so  freely  in  hydromel  at  his 
wedding-feast  that  he  died. 

"  It  was  the  custom  of  the  higher  order  of  the 
Teutons  ...  to  drink  mead  or  nietheglin  {a 
beverage  u^de  from  honey)  for  thirty  days  after 
every  wedding.  From  this  conies  the  e.xpression 
'to  spend  the  honeymoon.'"— ir.  lulleyn:  ety- 
mological Compendium,  S  9,  p.  142. 


Honeywood 


61i 


Honeywood.  A  yea-nay  type,  illus- 
trative of  what  Dr.  Youu}?  says : 
"  What  is  mere  good  nature  but  a  fool':'" 

(Gohi.smifh  :  The  (Jood-)iatiirfd  Man.) 

Hong  Merchants.  Those  merchants 
•who  were  alone  permitted  by  the  govern- 
ment of  China  to  trade  with  China,  till 
the  restriction  was  abolished  in  1812. 
The  Chinese  applied  the  word  hong  to 
the  foreign  factories  situated  at  Canton. 

Hon'i.  lloni  soil  qxi  inal  ij  pensc  (Evil 
be  [to  him]  who  thinks  evil  of  this). 
The  tradition  is  that  Edward  III.  gave 
a  grand  court  ball,  and  one  of  the  ladies 
present  was  the  beautiful  Couutess  of 
Salisbury,  whose  garter  of  blue  ribbon 
accidentally  fell  off.  The  kmg  saw  a 
significant  smile  among  the  guests,  and 
gallantly  came  to  the  rescue,  '■'■lloni 
m'lt  qui  inal  y  pcnse''''  (Shame  to  him 
who  thinks  shame  of  this  accident) ,  cried 
the  monarch.  Then,  binding  the  ribbon 
round  liis  own  knee,  he  added,  "I  will 
bring  it  about  that  the  proudest  noble 
in  the  realm  shall  think  it  an  honour  to 
wear  this  bund."  The  incident  deter- 
mined him  to  abandon  his  plan  of 
forming  an  order  of  the  Hound  Table, 
and  he  formed  instead  the  order  of  the 
"Garter."  {T'njhc  and  Davis:  Annals 
of  IJ'indsor.) 

Honour  (/<  silent).  A  superior 
seigniory,  on  which  other  lordships  or 
manors  depend  by  the  perfonuauce  of 
customary  services. 

An  affair  of  lionour.  A  dispute  to  Le 
settled  by  a  duel.  Duels  were  generally 
provoked  by  .offences  against  the  arbi- 
trary rules  of  etiquette,  courtesj',  or 
feeling,  called  the  "laws  of  honour;  " 
and,  as  these  offences  were  not  recog- 
nisable in  the  law  courts,  they  were 
settled  by  private  combat. 

Debts  of  honour.  Debts  contracted  by 
betting,  gambling,  or  verbal  promise. 
As  these  debts  caimot  be  enforced  by 
law,  but  depend  solely  on  good  faith, 
they  are  called  debts  of  honour. 

Laws  of  Jionoar.  Certain  arbitrary 
rules  which  the  fashionable  world  tacitly 
admits ;  they  wholly  regard  deport- 
ment, and  have  nothing  to  do  with 
moral  offences.  Breaches  of  this  code 
are  punished  by  duels,  expulsion  from 
society,  or  suspension  called  "sending 
to  Coventry"  {q.v.). 

Point  of  honour.  An  obligation  which 
is  binding  because  its  violation  would 
offend  some  conscientious  scruple  or 
notion  of  self-respect. 

Word  of  honour.  A  gage  which 
cannot  be  "violated  without  placing  the 


Honours 

breaker  of  it  beyond  the  pale  of  respect- 
ability and  good  society. 

Honour  and  Glory  GrifSths.  Capt. 
Griffiths  (in  the  reign  of  William  IV.) 
was  so  callefl,  because  all  his  despatches 
were  addressed  "  To  tlieir  Honours  and 
Glories  at  the  Admiralty." 

Honour  paid  to  Learning.  Diony- 
sius,  King  of  Syracuse,  wishnig  to  see 
I'lato,  sent  the  finest  galley  in  his  king- 
dom royally  equipped,  ami  stored  with 
every  conceivable  luxury  to  fetch  him  ; 
and,  on  landing,  the  philosopher  found 
the  royal  state  carriage  waiting  to 
convey  him  to  the  palace. 

Ben  Jonson,  in  1619,  made  a  journey 
from  London  to  Scotland  expressly  to 
see  William  Drummond,  the  Scotch  poet. 

Honours  (//  silent).  Crushed  hy  his 
honours.  The  allusion  is  to  the  Iloman 
damsel  who  agreed  to  open  the  gates  of 
Home  to  King  Ta'tius,  provided  his  sol- 
diers would  give  her  the  ornaments 
which  they  wore  on  their  arms.  As  they 
entered  they  threw  their  shields  on  her 
iind  crushed  her,  saying  as  they  did  so, 
"These  are  the  ornaments  worn  by 
Sabiues  on  their  arms."  Roman  story 
says  the  maid  was  named  Tarpe'ia,  and 
tliat  she  was  the  daughter  of  Tarjjeius, 
the  governor  of  the  citadel. 

Draco,  the  Athenian  legislator,  was 
crushed  to  death  in  the  theatre  of 
iEgi'na,  by  the  number  of  caps  and 
cloaks  showered  on  him  by  the  audience, 
as  a  mark  of  their  high  ajipreciation  of 
his  merits. 

Elagab'alus,  the  Roman  Emperor,  in- 
vited the  leading  men  of  Rome  to  a 
banquet,  and,  under  the  pretence  of 
showing  them  honour,  rained  roses  upon 
them.  But  the  shower  continued  till 
they  were  all  buried  and  smothered  by 
the  flowers. 

Two  or  four  ly  honours.  A  term  in 
whist.  If  two  "partners"  hold  three 
court  cards,  they  score  two  points ;  if 
they  hold  four  court  cards,  they  score 
four  points.  These  are  honour  points, 
or  points  not  won  by  the  merit  of  play, 
but  by  courtesy  and  laws  of  honour. 
The  phrases  mean,  "  I  score  or  claim  two 
points  by  right  of  honours,"  and  "I 
score  or  claim  four  points  by  right  of 
four  court  or  honour  cards." 

Honours  of  War.  The  privilege 
allowed  to  an  honoured  enemy,  on 
capitulation,  of  being  permitted  to 
retain  their  offensive  aiins.  This  is  the 
highest  honour  a  victor  can  pay  a 
vanquished  foe.     Sometimes  the  soldiers 


Hood 


619 


Hooped  Pots 


so  honoui'ed  are  required  to  pile  arms ; 
in  other  cases  they  are  allowed  to  march 
with  all  tlieir  arms,  drums  beating,  and 
colours  flyiug. 

Hood.  '  JV.s  not  the  hood  that  makes 
the  monk  {Ciicid'Ins  non  facit  mon'eichiiui). 
We  must  not  be  deceived  by  appearances, 
or  take  for  granted  that  things  and  per- 
sons are  what  they  seem  to  be. 

"  They   sIkiuIJ  1)6  good  men  ;  their  affuii's  are 
ripliteous ; 
But  all  Uood3  mako  not  monks." 

tihakespeure :  Henry  VI TT.,  Hi.  1. 

Hood  {Rohni).  Introduced  by  Sir 
Vv'alter  Scott  in  Ivanhoe.     {See  Robin.) 

Hoods  (Anglo-Saxon  hud). 

Black  silk  icithoiitluixng: — M.A.  Cam- 
bridge, non  Regius  (abolished  1858) ; 
B.D.  Cambridge,  Oxford,  Dublin. 

Elack  stuff,  with  broad  white  fur 
trimming: — B.A.  or  LL.B.  Cam- 
bridge. 

Elack  corded  silk,  with  narrow  white 
fur  trimming: — B.A.  Oxford. 

Black  silk  hood,  icith  lining: — With 
white  silk  lining,  M.A.  Cambridge  ; 
with  dark  red  silk  lining,  M.A. 
Oxford  ;  with  dark  blue  silk  lining, 
Dublin  ;  with  russet-browu  lining, 
M.A.  London. 

Blue  silk  hood,  with  wliite  fur  trim- 
ming, B.C.L.  Oxford. 

Beown  (silk  or  stuff)  hood,  edged  with 
russet-browu,  B.A.  London. 

SCAELET  cloth  hood  :■ — Lined  with  crim- 
son silk,  D.C.L.  Oxford  ;  lined  with 
pink  silk,  D.C.L.  Dublin  ;  lined 
with  pink  silk,  D.D.  Cambridge ; 
lined  with  black  silk.  D.D.  Oxford  ; 
lined  with  light  cherry  -  coloured 
silk,  LL.D.  Cambridge. 

Scarlet  cashmercYiooA. : — Lined  with  silk, 
D.D.  Dublin  : — Lined  with  Avhitc 
silk,  D.C.L.  Durham. 

Violet  hoods  are  St.  Andrew's. 

V  The  longer  the  hood  the  higher  the 

degree ;    thus,   a  bachelor's  hood   only 

reaches  to   the   thighs,   but    a  doctor's 

hood  reaches  to  the  heels. 

Hoodlum  (American  slang).  A 
Califoruiau  rough. 

Hoodman  Blind.  Now  called 
"BUudman'sBuif." 

"  What  devil  was't 
That  tbu3  hath  cozened  you  at  hoodman  lil'nd  ?" 
lihdke.ipeare :  Hamlet,  iii.  4. 

Hook,  Hooks.  He  is  off  the  hooks. 
Done  for,  laid  on  the  shelf,  superseded, 
dead.  The  bent  pieces  of  iron  on  which 
the  hinges  of  a  gate  rest  and  turn  are 
called  hooks  ;  if  a  gate  is  off  the  hooks  it 
is  in  a  bad  way,  and  cannot  readily  be 
opened  and  shut. 


On  one^s  own  hook.  On  one's  own 
responsibility  or  account.  An  angler's 
Ijhrase. 

To  fish  tcith  a  golden  hook.  To  give 
bribes.  "  Ptcher  avec  nn  hame^on  d''or.'" 
Risk  a  sprat  to  catch  a  mackerel.  To  buy 
fish,  and  i^retend  to  have  caught  it. 

inth  a  hook  at  the  end.  My  assent 
is  given  with  a  hook  at  the  end  means 
not  intended  to  be  kept.  In  some  parts 
of  GeiTuany,  even  to  the  present  day, 
when  a  witness  swears  falsely,  he  erooks 
one  finger  into  a  sort  of  hook,  and  this 
is  supposed  sufficient  to  avert  the  sin  of 
perjury.  It  is  a  crooked  oath,  or  an 
oath  "with  a  hook  at  the  end."  [See 
OvEE  Ti{E  Left.) 

N.B.  Ringing  the  bells  backwards, 
and  repeating  the  Lord's  Prayer  back- 
wards belong  to  the  same  class  of  super- 
stitious. 

Hook  it !  2\(ke  i/oi>r  hook  ;  Slitig  yotir 
hook.  Be  off  !  Be  off  about  your 
business  !  This  expression  amongst 
woodmen,  reapers,  etc.,  is  equivalent 
to  the  military  one,  ' '  Pack  wp  your 
tatters  and  follow  the  drum." 

Hook  or  Crook  {By).  Either  right- 
fully or  wrongfully ;  in  one  way  or 
another.  Formerly  the  poor  of  a  manor 
Avere  allowed  to  go  into  the  forests  with 
a  hook  and  crook  to  get  wood.  What 
they  could  not  reach  they  might  pull 
down  with  their  crook.  The  French 
equivalent  is  "^1  droit  on  a  tort,''''  or  "/^e 
brie  et  de  broe.''''  Either  with  the  thief's 
hook  or  the  bishop's  crook.  Mrs.  S.  C. 
Hall,  in  her  Ireland  (vol.  ii.  p.  149  «.), 
states,  as  the  origin  of  this  phrase,  that 
when  the  ships  of  Strongbow  were  en- 
tering Waterford  harbour  he  noticed  a 
tower  on  one  side  and  a  church  on  the 
other.  Inquiring  their  names,  he  was 
told  it  was  the  "Tower  of  Hook"  and 
the  "Church  of  Crook."  Then  said  he, 
"  Wo  must  take  the  town  by  Hook  and 
by  Crook."  There  is  no  such  person  as 
St.  Crook  mentioned  by  the  Bollandists. 

"  Dynnnire  Wood  was  ever  open  and  common  to 
the  .  .  .  inhabitants  of  Bodmin  .  .  .  tobearaway 
upon  their  hacks  a   burden   of  lop,  crop,   hook, 
crook,  aud  bag  wood.''— iJydm/ji  lieyistei'  (13i'5). 
"The  which  his  sire  had  scrapt  by  hooke  or 
crooke." 
Spinser :  Faerie  Queene,  book  v.  ii.  line  29. 

Hookey  'Walker.     {See  Waikee.) 

Hooped  Pots.  Drinking  pots  at  one 
time  were  made  with  hoops,  that  when 
two  or  more  drank  from  the  same 
tankard  no  one  of  them  should  take 
more  than  his  share.  Jack  Cade  pro- 
mises his  followers  that  "  seven  half- 
penny loaves  shall  be  sold  for  a  penny ; 


Hoopoe 


620 


Horace 


the  three-hooped  pot  shall  have  ten 
hoops ;  and  I  will  make  it  felony  to 
drink  small  beer."  {Shakespeare :  2  Henry 
r/.,iv.  2.) 

Hoopoe  {Upiipn  Upops).  A  small 
crested  bird  revered  by  all  the  ancient 
Egyptians,  and  placed  on  the  sceptre 
of  Horus,  to  symbolise  joy  and  filial 
affection.     (Latin  npiipa,  the  hoopoe.) 

Hop.  The  plant,  called  by  Tiissor 
"Robin  Hop."  (Danish  //o/;.)  To  hop 
on  one  leg  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  hopetau 
or  hoppian. 

*'  Get  iiitd  tliy  hop.varil,  f(ir  now  it  is  time 
To  te:icli  Ilutiiii  Hop  on  his  pole  liow  to  climli." 
five  Hundred  I'uitits  uf  Goud  llasbandnj,  xli.  17. 

Thick  as  hops.  Very  numerous  ;  very 
compact. 

"And  thousand  other  thinpsas  thickeashops."' 
Taylor  the  Water  J'oet  (Piao). 

Hop-o'-my-Thumb.  A  nix,  the  same 
as  the  German  daiatding,  the  French  le 
petit  pouec,  and  the  Scotcli  Tom-a-Iin 
(or  Tamlane).  Tom  Thumb  in  the  well- 
known  nursery  tale  is  quite  another 
character.  He  was  the  son  of  peasants, 
knighted  by  King  Ai'thur,  and  killed  by 
a  spider. 

V  Several  dwarfs  have  assumed  the 
name  of  Tom  Thumb.     [See  Dwarfs.) 

"You     Stuiiip-o'-tUe-G  utter,     yuu      Hoii-o'-iny- 
Thunili, 
Your  husband  must  from  Lilliput  con:e." 

A'oHc  O'Hara :  Midan. 
"Plaine   friend.  Hop-o'-niy-Thuinli,  know   you 
■who  we  are?  '—Tamhitjof  the  Shrew  {\a'M). 

To  hop  the  ticic/.  To  run  away  from 
one's  creditors,  as  a  bird  eludes  a  fowler, 
"hopping  from  spray  to  spray." 

V  Also  to  die.  The  same  idea  as  that 
above.  There  are  numerous  phrases  to 
express  the  cessation  of  life ;  for  ex- 
ample, "To  kick  the  bucket "  ((^.r.)  ; 
"To  lay  down  one's  knife  and  fork ;  " 
"  Pegging  out "  (from  the  game  of 
cribbage)  ;  "To  be  snuffed  out  "  (like  a 
candle)  ;  "  He  has  given  in  ;  "  "To 
throw  up  the  sponge"  {q.v.)  ;  "To  fall 
asleep;"  "To  enter  Charon's  boat" 
(See  Charon)  ;  "  To  join  the  majority  ; " 
"To  cave  in;"  a  common  Scripture 
phrase  is  "To  give  up  the  ghost." 

Hope.  Before  Alexander  set  out  for 
Asia  he  divided  his  kingdom  among  his 
friends.  "My  lord,"  said  Perdiccas, 
"what  have  you  left  for  yourself  y  " 
"  Hope,"  replied  Alexander.  Whereupon 
Perdiccas  rejoined,  "  If  hope  is  enough 
for  Alexander,  it  is  enough  for  Perdic- 
cas," and  declined  to  accept  any  bounty 
from  the  king. 

The  Bard  of  Hope.  Thomas  Camp- 
beU   (1777-1844),    the    author   of    The 


rieasitres  of  Hope.    The  entire  profits  on 
this  poem  were  £900. 

The  Cape  of  Good  Hope.     {See  Storms.) 

Hopeful.  The  companion  of  Cliiis- 
tian  after  the  death  of  Faithful.  {liiai- 
yan  :  I'ilyrini's  I'royress.) 

Hope-on-High  Bomby.  A  puri- 
tanical character  drawn  by  Beaumont 
and  Fletcher. 

'"  Wi'll,'  Kviii  WJIdrake, 'I  think  I  can  make  a 
"  Hiipf-iin-Hi>,'li  ISoiiihy  "  as  well  as  thou  canst.'" 
—No-  Walter  .Srvtt:   Wmdstuck.v.  \  ii. 

Hopkins  {Matthcic),  of  Manningtree, 
Essex,  the  witch-finder  of  the  associated 
counties  of  Essex,  Suffolk,  Norfolk,  and 
Huntingdonshire.  In  one  year  he  hanged 
sixty  reputed  witches  in  Essex  alone. 
Dr.  Z.  Grey  says  that  between  three 
and  four  thousand  persons  suffered  death 
for  witchcraft  between  1G43  and  1G61. 

Nicholas  Hopkins.  A  Carthusian  friar, 
cftnfessor  of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham, 
who  projjhesied  "  that  neither  the  king 
(Henry  VIII.)  nor  his  heirs  should 
prosper,  Imt  that  the  Duke  of  Bucking- 
ham should  govern  England. 

"  I  Gent.  Tliat  devil-nionk 

Hopkins  that  made  this  uiisclilef. 
2  Gent.  That  was  lie 

That  fed  him  with  his  prophecies." 

Shakespeare :  Henry  VIII.,  ii.  I. 

Hopkins'ians.  Those  who  adopt 
the  theological  opinions  of  Dr.  Samuel 
Hopkins,  of  Connecticut.  These  sec- 
tarians hold  most  of  the  Calvinistic  doc- 
trines, but  entirely  reject  the  doctrines 
of  imputed  sin  and  imputed  righteous- 
ness. The  speciality  of  the  system  is 
that  true  holiness  consists  in  disinter- 
ested benevolence,  and  that  all  sin  is 
selfishness. 

Hopping  Giles.  A  lame  person  ;  so 
called  from  St.  Giles,  the  tutelar  saint  of 
cripples,  who  was  himself  lame. 

Hopton.  Wheti  in  doid)t,  kill  Hopion. 
Sir  Ralph  Hopton  was  a  Royalist  general. 
During  the  Civil  Wars  we  read  that 
Hopton  was  killed  over  and  over  again  ; 
thus,  in  iJinrnal  Occurrences,  Dec.  5th, 
1642,  we  read,  "It  was  likewise  this  day 
reported  that  Sir  Ralph  Hopton  is  either 
dead  or  dangerously  sicke."  Five 
months  later  we  read  in  Special  Passages, 
May  6th,  1643,  of  Hopton's  death  after 
a  fight  on  Roborough  Down,  in  Devon- 
shire. And  again,  May  15th,  164  3,  we 
read  of  his  death  in  A  True  Jielation  of 
the  Proceedings  of  the  Cornish  Forces. 

Hor'ace.     The  Roman  lyric  poet. 

Horaces  of  England.  George,  Duke 
of  Buckingham,  preposterously  declared 
Cowley  to  be  the  Pindar,  Horace,  and 


Horatian 


621 


Horn-bodlj: 


Virgil  of  England  (1618-1667).  Ben 
Jonson  is  invariably  called  Horace  by 
Dekker. 

Horaces  of  France.  Jean  Macrinus  or 
Salmon  (1490-1557)  ;  Pierre  Jean  de 
Berauger,  the  French  Hums  (1780- 
1857). 

Horaces  of  Spain.  The  brothers  Ar- 
geii'sola,  whose  Christian  names  were 
Lupercio  and  Bartolme. 

Horatian  Metro  (An).  Book  i. 
Ode  iv.  In  alternate  lines,  one  of 
seventeen  syllables  and  the  other  of 
eleven,  thus : 


Below  is  a  translation  of  the  first  four 
lines  in  this  Horatian  metre  (rhyming)  : 
Now  that  the  winter  is  past,  blitlip  spring  to 
the  lialniy  fleUis  inviteth, 
Anil  1(.  !  fnini  the  dry  sands  men  their  koels 
are  hauling  ; 
Cattle  rjo  longer  their  stalls  affect,  nor  the  hind 
his  hearth  delighteth, 
Nor  ileadly   Frost  spreads   over  mends   her 
lallmg.  H.C.B. 

V  See  Alcaic,  Asclepiadic,  Chori- 
AMBic,  Sapphic,  etc.  {See  also  Hexa- 
METEES,  and  Hexameters  and  J'enta- 

METERS. ) 

Hora'tio.      Hamlet's  intimate  friend. 

{Shakespeare :   Hamlet.) 

Horn.  Logistilla  gave  Astolpho  at 
parting  a  horn  that  had  the  virtue  to 
appal  and  put  to  flight  tlie  boldest 
knight  or  most  savage  beast.  {Ariosto  : 
Orlando  Fiirioso,  book  viii.) 

Astolpho^s  horn.     (See  above.) 

Cape  Horn.  So  named  by  Schouten, 
a  Dutch  mariner,  who  first  doubled  it. 
He  was  a  native  of  Hoorn,  in  north 
Holland,  and  named  the  cape  after  his 
native  jjlace. 

Dri»ki»ff  horn.  Drinking  cups  used 
to  be  made  of  the  rhinoceros's  horn,  from 
an  Oriental  belief  that  "  it  sweats  at  the 
approach  of  poison. "  (Calmet :  Biblical 
Dictionary.) 

King  Horn.  The  hero  of  a  French 
metrical  romance,  and  the  original  of 
our  Home  Childe,  generally  called 
The  Geste  of  Kyiig  Horn.  The  nominal 
author  of  the  French  romance  is  Mestre 
Thomas.  Dr.  Percy  ascribes  the 
English  romance  of  King  Home  to  the 
twelfth  century,  but  this  is  probably  a 
century  too  early.  .  (See  liitson's 
Ancient  liomaitces.) 

Horn,  Horns. 

Phrases. 

My  horn  hath  He  exalted  (1  Sam.  ii.  10  ; 
Ps.  Ixxxix.  24,  etc.).  Mr.  Buckingham 
says  of  a  Tyrian  lady,  "  She  wore  on  her 


head  a  hollow  silver  horn,  rearing  itself 
upwards  obliquely  from  the  forehead. 
It  was  some  four  inches  in  diameter  at 
the  root,  and  pointed  at  its  extremity. 
This  peculiarity  reminded  me  forcibly 
of  the  expression  of  the  Psalmist,  '  Lift 
not  up  your  horn  on  high :  speak  not 
with  a  stiff  neck.  All  the  horns  of  the 
wicked  also  will  I  cut  off  ;  but  the  horns 
of  the  righteous  shall  be  exalted '  (Ps. 
Ixxv.  5,  10)."  Bruce  found  in  Abys- 
sinia the  silver  horns  of  warriors  and 
distinguished  men.  In  the  i-eign  of 
Henry  V.  the  "honied  head-gear"  was 
introduced  into  England,  and  from  the 
effigy  of  Beatrice,  Countess  of  Arundel, 
at  Arundel  church,  who  is  represented 
with  two  horns  outsjjread  to  a  great 
extent,  we  may  infer  that  the  length  of 
the  head-horn,  like  the  length  of  the 
shoe-point  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VI., 
etc.,  marked  the  degree  of  rank.  "To 
cut  off"  such  horns  would  be  to  de- 
grade; and  to  exalt  or  extend  such 
horus  would  be  to  add  honour  and  dig- 
nity to  the  wearer. 

To  draw  in  one''s  horns.  To  retract, 
or  mitigate,  a  pronounced  opinion  ;  to 
restrain  pride.  In  French,  "  Jienirer  les 
comes.''''     The  allusion  is  to  the  snail. 

To  put  to  the  horn.  To  denounce  as 
a  rebel,  or  pronounce  a  person  an  out- 
law, for  not  answering  to  a  summons. 
In  Scotland  the  messenger-at-arms  goes 
to  the  Cross  of  Edinburgh  and  gives 
three  blasts  with  a  horn  before  he 
heralds  the  judgment  of  outlawry. 

"A  king's  messenger  must  give  three  Masts 
with  his  horn,  l\v  which  the  jierson  is  understood 
to  lie  proclaimed  rebel  to  the  king  for  contempt 
of  his  authority."— iVii/.'iiie;  Institutes,  hook  ii.  5. 

To  wear  the  horns.  To  be  a  cuckold- 
In  the  rutting  season,  the  stags  associate 
with  the  fawns  :  one  stag  selects  several 
females,  who  constitute  his  harem,  till 
another  stag  comes  who  contests  the 
prize  with  him.  If  beaten  in  the 
combat,  he  yields  up  his  harem  to  the 
victor,  and  is  without  associates  till  he 
finds  a  stag  feebler  than  himself,  who  is 
made  to  submit  to  similar  terms.  As 
stags  are  horned,  and  made  cuckolds  of 
by  their  fellows,  the  appUcatiou  is 
palpable.     {See  Cornette.) 

Horn-book.  The  alphabet  -  book, 
which  was  a  thin  board  of  oak  about  nine 
inches  long  and  five  or  six  wide,  on  which 
was  printed  the  alphabet,  the  nine 
digits,  and  sometimes  the  Lord's  Prayer. 
It  had  a  handle,  and  was  covered  in 
front  with  a  sheet  of  thin  horn  to 
prevent  its  being  soiled ;  the  back- 
board  was   ornamented   with   a   rude 


Horn-gate 


622, 


Horns 


sketch  of  St.  George  and  the  Dragon. 
The  board  and  its  horn  cover  were  held 
together  by  a  narrow  frame  or  border  of 
brass,     {(ice  Ceissceoss  Eow.  ) 

"  Tliee  will  I  sing,  in  comely  wain8cn.%t  bound, 
And  golden  verge  inclosing  thee  around  ; 
Tlie  faithful  hofu  before,  from  age  to  age 
rrescrving  thy  invulneralile  page  ; 
Beliinil,  thy  patron  saint  in  armour  shines, 
"With   sword  and   lance   to  guard  the  sacred 

lines  .  .  . 
Th'  instructive  handle's  at  the  liottoin  fixed. 
Lest  wrangliug  criticsshould  pervert  I  lir  text." 
Tid.ill :  Tin:  Hum  l!:;,l:. 
"Their  books  of  stature  small  they  took  in  hand 
Which  with  pellucid  horn  secured  are, 
To  save  from  finger  wet  the  letters  fair." 

Sheiistoiie :  .Schoolmistress. 

Horn-gate.  One  of  the  two  gates 
of  "Dreams;"  the  other  is  of  ivorj-. 
Visions  which  issue  from  the  former 
come  true.  This  whim  depends  upon 
two  Greek  puns  ;  the  Greek  for  horn  is 
trras,  and  the  verb  kraiio  or  hanuioo 
means  "to  bring  to  an  issue,"  "to 
fulfil ;  so  again  ckphas  is  ivory,  and  the 
verb  elcphairo  means  "  to  cheat,"  "to 
deceive."  The  verb  hra'mo,  however, 
is  derived  from  km,  "  the  head,"  and 
means  "  to  bring  to  a  head  ; "  and  the 
verb  clephairo^is  akin  to  cldc/itis, 
"small." 

Anchi'ses  dismisses  iEne'as  through 
the  ivory  gate,  on  quitting  the  infernal 
regions,  to  indicate  the  unreality  of  his 
vision. 

"Sunt    peniina;    soinui    porta*,    quarnni    altera 
fertur 
Cornea,  qua  veris  faeilis  datur  exTtus  Umbris  ; 
Altera  candenti  perfecta  nitens  eiephanto  : 
'  Sed  falsa  ad  ccelum  mittunt  insomnia  Manes." 
Virijit :  JSneid,  vi.  »U4,  etc. 

Horn  of  Fidelity.  Morgan  la  Faye 
sent  a  horn  to  King  Ai-thur,  which  had 
the  following  "  virtue  "  : — No  lady  could 
drink  out  of  it  who  was  not  "  to  her  hus- 
band true  ;  "  all  others  who  attempted  to 
drink  were  sure  to  spill  what  it  contained. 
This  horn  was  carried  to  King  Marke, 
and  ' '  his  queene  with  a  hundred  ladies 
more"  tried  the  experiment,  but  only 
four  managed  to  "  drinke  cleaue."  Ari- 
osto's  enchanted  cup  possessed  a  similar 
spell.     {See  Chastity.) 

Horn  of  Plenty  \_Conu(-eu2)ia'\. 
Emblem  of  plenty. 

Ce'res  is  drawn  with  a  ram's  horn  in 
her  left  arm,  tilled  with  fruits  and  flowers. 
Sometimes  they  are  being  poured  on  the 
earth  from  "  the  full  horn,"  and  some- 
times they  are  held  in  it  as  in  a  basket. 
Diodo'rus  (iii.  68)  says  the  horn  is  one 
from  the  head  of  the  goat  by  which 
Jupiter  was  suckled.  He  explains  the 
fable  thus  :  "In  Libya,"  he  says, ' '  there 
is  a  strip  of  land  shaped  like  a  horn, 


bestowed  by  King  Ammon  on  his  bride 
Amalthiea,  who  nursed  Jupiter  with 
goat's  milk. 

"When  Amalthe'a's  horn 
O'er  hill  and  dale  therosc-crowned  Flora  jMiurg, 
And    scatters    corn    and    wine,   and    fruits    and 
llowers."  CanwruK:  Ltt»i(Ul,  hook  ii. 

Horn  of  Power.  When  Tam'ugin 
assumed  the  title  of  Ghengis  Khan,  lie 
commanded  that  a  white  horn  should 
bo  thenceforward  the  standard  of  his 
troops.  So  the  great  Mogul  "  lifted  up 
his  honi  on  liigh,"  and  was  exalted  to  , 
great  power.  , 

Horn  of  the  Son  of  Oil  ( The)  (Isa. 

V.  1).  The  son  of  oil  means  Syri:i, 
famous  for  its  olives  and  its  olive  oil, 
and  the  horn  of  Syria  means  the  strip  of 
land  called  Syria,  which  lias  the  sea 
bounding  it  on  the  west  and  the  desert 
on  the  east. 

Horn  with  Horn  or  Horn  under 

Horn.  The  promiscuous  feeding  of 
bulls  and  cows,  or,  in  fact,  all  homed 
beasts  that  are  allowed  to  run  together 
on  the  same  common. 

Horns  of  a  Dilemma.  A  difficulty 
of  such  a  nature  that  whatever  way 
you  attack  it  you  encounter  an  equal 
amount  of  disagreeables.  Macbeth, 
after  the  murder  of  Duncan,  was  in  a 
strait  between  two  evils.  If  he  allowed 
Bauquo  to  live,  he  liad  reason  to  believe 
that  Banquo  would  supplant  him  ;  if, 
on  the  other  hand,  he  resolved  to  keep 
the  crown  for  which  "  he  had  'filed  his 
hands,"  he  must  "  step  further  iu 
blood,"  and  cut  Banquo  off. 

Lemma,  is  something  that  has  been 
proved,  and  being  so  is  assumed  as  an 
axiom.  It  is  from  the  Greek  word 
htni'hano  (I  assume  or  take  for  granted). 
JJi-leiiniia  is  a  double  lemma,  or  two- 
edged  sword  which  strikes  eitlier  way. 
The  hor7is  of  a  dilemma  is  a  figure  of 
speech  taken  from  a  bull,  which  tosses 
with  either  of  his  horns. 

"  Teach  me  to  plead,"  said  a  young 
rhetorician  to  a  sophist,  "and  I  will  pay 
you  when  I  gain  a  cause."  The  master 
sued  for  payment  at  once,  and  the  scholar 
pleaded,  "  If  I  t/aiii  my  cause  j'ou  must 
Ijay  me,  and  if  I  lose  it  I  am  not  bound 
to  pay  J'OU  by  the  tei-ms  of  our  contract." 
The  master  pleaded,  "If  j'ou  f/ain  you 
must  pay  me  by  the  terms  of  the  agree- 
ment, and  if  you  lose  the  court  will  com- 
jjel  you  to  pay  me." 

Horns  of  Moses'  Face.  This  is  a 
mere  blunder.  The  Hebrew  haran 
maav.G  "to  shoot  out  beams  of  light," 
but  has  by  mistake  been  translated  iu 


Horns 


623 


Horse 


some  versions  "  to  wear  horus."  Thus 
Moses  is  con ventioually  represented  with 
horns.  "  Moses  wist  not  that  the  skin 
of  his  face  shone"  (Exod.  xxxiv.  29)  ; 
compare  2  Co'r.  iii.  7-13  :  "  The  children 
of  Israel  could  not  stedfastly  behold 
the  face  of  Moses  for  the  glory  of  his 
countenance." 

Horns  of  the  Altar  ( To  the).  Vsqne 
ad  aras  amicus.  Your  friend  even  to  the 
horns  of  the  altar — i.e.  through  thick 
and  thin.  In  swearing,  the  ancient 
Roxians  held  the  honis  of  the  altar,  and 
one  who  did  so  in  testimony  of  friend- 
ship could  not  break  his  oath  without 
calling  on  himself  tlie  vengeance  of  the 
angry  gods. 

Home.  I'll  cJiaiicc  if,  as  old  Rome 
did  his  i/cck.  The  reference  is  to  Home, 
a  clergyman  of  Notts,  who  committed 
murder,  but  contrived  to  escape  to  the 
Continent.  After  several  years  of  ab- 
sence, he  returned  to  England,  and  when 
told  of  the  risk  he  ran,  he  replied,  "  I'll 
chance  it."  He  did  chance  it ;  but  being 
apprehended,  he  was  tried,  condemned, 
and  executed.     {I'/ie  Keivgatc  Calendar.) 

Horner.  One  who  blows  the  hunting- 
horn  ;  a  huntsman  or  master  of  the 
hounds.  Little  Jack  Homer  was  master 
of  the  Abbot  of  Glastonbury's  hounds. 

Hornets  (Josh.  xxiv.  12).  "And  I 
sent  the  hornet  before  you,  which  drave 
them  out  from  before  j-ou,  even  the  two 
kings  of  the  Amorites."  The  Egyptian 
standard  was  a  hornet,  and  in  this 
passage,  "  I  sent  the  hornet  before  you," 
the  word  hornet  must  be  taken  to  mean 
the  EgyjDtian  army. 

Hornet's  Nest.  To  poke  your  head 
into  a  hcruefs  lies'.  To  briiir/  a  hornet's 
nest  about  your  cars.  To  get  into  trouble 
by  meddling  and  making.  The  bear  is 
very  fond  of  honey,  and  often  gets  stung 
by  poking  its  snout  by  mistake  into  a 
hornet's  nest  in  search  of  its  favourite 
dainty. 

Hor'nie  (2  syl.).  Auld  Hurnie.  The 
devil,  so  called  in  Scotland.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  the  horns  with  which  Satan  is 
generally  represented.     [See  Faiey.) 

Horn 'pipe  (2  syl.).  The  dance  is  so 
called  because  it  used  to  be  danced  in  the 
west  of  England  to  the  pib-corn  or  horn- 
pipe, an  instrument  consisting  of  a  pij)e 
each  end  of  which  was  made  of  horn. 

Horology.  The  art  of  measuring 
time ;  or  constructing  iustruments  to 
indicate  time,  i.e.  clocks  and  watches. 


Hor'oscope  (3  syl.).  The  scheme  of 
the  twelve  houses  by  which  astrologers 
tell  your  fortune.  The  word  means  the 
"hour-scrutinised,"  because  it  is  the 
hour  of  birth  only  which  is  examined  in 
these  star-maps.    {Uora-skopco,  Greek.) 

Horrors  (The).     Delirium  tremens. 
Hors  de  Combat  (Freucli).     Out  of 
battle.     Incapable  of  taking  any  further 
part  in  the  fight. 
f  Horse.    Notabilia. 
Thejifteen  points  of  a  good  horse  : 
"  A  K'ood  horse  sbulde  liave  tliroe  imipyrtees 
of  a  man,  three  nf  a  woman,  three  of  a  foxe,  three 
of  a  haare.aml  three  of  an  asse. 
"O/aman.    Bohh'.  vrowde,  and  hardye. 
"  (j/ a  troman.    Fayre-lireasted,  faire  of  hecre, 
and  easy  to  move. 

"  Of  a  foxe.  A  fair  taylle,  short  eers,  with  a 
good  trotte. 

"  Of  a  haare.  A  grate  eye,  a  dry  head,  and  well 
rennynt'e. 

"  of  (III  nsse.  A  hygge  chynn,  a  flat  legge,  and  a 
good  hoof."— F)/H/.2//i"d«  Wnrde  (14lW). 

Horse.  Creator  of  the  horse.  Accord- 
ing to  classical  mythology,  Poseidon 
[Neptune]  created  the  horse.  When  the 
goddess  of  Wisdom  disputed  with  the 
Sea-god  which  of  them  should  give 
name  to  Athens,  the  gods  decided  that 
it  should  be  called  by  the  name  of  that 
deity  which  bestowed  on  man  the  most 
useful  boon.  Athene  (the  goddess  of 
W^isdom)  created  the  olive  tree,  but 
Poseidon  or  Neptune  created  the  horse. 
The  vote  was  given  in  favour  of  the 
olive-tree,  and  the  city  called  Athens. 

V  It  was  a  remarkable  judgment,  but 
it  must  be  remembered  that  an  olive 
branch  was  tlie  sj'mbol  of  peace,  and  was 
also  the  highest  prize  of  the  victor  in 
the  Olympic  games.  The  horse,  on  the 
other  hand,  was  the  sj'mbol  of  u-ar,  and 
peace  is  certainly  to  be  preferred  to  war. 

Horses    (four-in-liand).       The    first 
person    that   drove  a  four-in-hand  was 
Erichthon'ius,  according  to  Virgil : 
"  Priinns  Erichthouius  curnis  ct  quaturir  aiisns 

Jungere  equos."  Gennj.  iii.  113. 

(Eriohthon  was  the  first  who  dared  command 

A  chanot  yoked  with  horses  four  in  hand.) 

A  horse  wins  a  kingdom.  On  the 
death  of  Smerdis,  the  several  competi- 
tors for  the  throne  of  Persia  agi-eed  that 
he  should  be  king  whose  horse  neighed 
first  when  they  met  on  the  day  follow- 
ing. The  groom  of  Darius  showed  his 
horse  a  mare  on  the  place  appointed, 
and  immediately  it  arrived  at  the  spot 
on  the  following  day  the  horse  began  to 
neigh,  and  won  the  crown  for  its  master. 

H  Horse  (in  the  Catacombs).  Emblem 
of  the  swiftness  of  life.  Sometimes  a 
palm-wreath  is  placed  above  its  head  to 
denote  that  ' '  the  race  is  not  to  the 
swift." 


Horse 


624 


Horse 


Horse  (in  Cliristian  art).  Emblem  of 
courage  and  generosity.  The  attribute 
of  St.  Martin,  St.  Maurice,  St.  George, 
and  St.  Victor,  all  of  whom  are  repre- 
sented on  horseback.  St.  Le'on  is  repre- 
sented on  horseback,  in  pontifical  robes, 
blessing  the  people. 

Jlrazcii  horse.  {Sec  Cambuscan  ;  sec  also 
Barbed  Steed,  Dobbin.) 

§  Flesh-eatbig  horses.  The  horses  of 
Diomed,  Tyrant  of  Thrace  (not  Diomede, 
son  of  Tydeus) ;  he  fed  his  horses  on  the 
strangers  who  visited  his  kingdom.  Her- 
cules vanquished  the  tyrant,  and  gave 
the  carcase  to  the  horses  to  eat. 

Like  to  the  Tliracinii  tyrnnt  who,  tliey  pay. 
Until  liis  liurscs  k.-ivi-  liis  ^-iirsls  fur  meat, 

Till  lie  liiriisrlf  w;iB  made  t  heir  mecily  prey. 
Anil  turn  to  inerrs  by  Ak-iiles  ureat." 
Spenser :  Faerie  Qiieeiie,  book  v.,  canto  8. 

Wooden  horse.     (See  Wooden.) 

U  Horse,  in  the  British  Army  : 

Elliott's  Light  Horse.  The  1.5th  Hus- 
sars of  the  British  Amiy  ;  so  called  from 
Colonel  Elliott.  They  are  now  called 
the  "  King's  Hussars." 

FageVs  Irregular  Horse.  The  4th 
Hussars  ;  so  called  from  their  loose  drill, 
after  their  return  from  India  iu  183'J. 
Now  called    "  The  Queen's  Hussars." 

The  Black  Horse.  The  7th  Dragoon 
Guards,  or  Princess  Royal's  Dragoon 
Guards;  called  "black"  from  its  facings. 

The  Blue  Horse.  The  4th  Dragoon 
Guards;  called  "blue"  from  their 
facings. 

The  Grcni  Horse  or  "  The  Green  Dra- 
goon Guards."  The  otli  Dragoon  G  uards ; 
called  "  green"  from  their  facings.  "The 
Princess  Charlotte  of  Wales's  Dragoon 
Guards." 

The  Royal  Horse  Guards  (called,  in 
1690,  Oxford  Blurs  from  tlieir  blue 
facings)  are  the  three  heavy  cavalry 
regiments  of  the  Household  Brigade, 
first  raised  in  1661. 

The  White  Horse.  The  old  8th  Foot ; 
now  called  "The  King's"  (Liverpool 
Regiment);  called  the  "White  Horse" 
from  one  of  the  badges— a  white  horse 
witliin  the  garter. 

Horse.    The  public-house  sign. 

(1)  The  White  Horse.  The  standard 
of  the  Saxons,  and  therefore  impressed 
on  hop  pockets  and  bags  as  the  ensign 
of  Kent.  On  Ufhngton  Hill,  Berks, 
there  is  formed  iu  the  chalk  an  enor- 
mous white  horse,  supposed  to  have  been 
cut  there  after  the  battle  in  which  Ethel- 
red  and  Alfred  defeated  the  Danes  (871). 
This  rude  ensign  is  about  374  feet  long, 
and  1,000  feet  above  the  sea-level.  It 
may  be  seen  twelve  miles  off. 


(2)  The  galloping  vhite  horse  is  the 
device  of  the  house  of  Hanover, 

(8)  The  rampant  trhite  horse.  The 
device  of  the  house  of  Savoy,  descended 
from  the  Saxons. 

HoESES  Famous  in  History  and 
Fable : 

Abakur  (Celtic).  One  of  the  horses 
of  Sunna.  The  word  means  the  "hot 
one."     {Scandinavian  mgthology.) 

Abas' ter  (Greek).  One  of  the  horses 
of  riuto.  The  word  means  "  away  from 
the  stars"  or  "deprived  of  the  hght  of 
day." 

Ab'atos  (Greek).  One  of  the  horses  of 
Pluto.  The  word  means  "  inaccessible," 
and  refers  to  the  infernal  realm. 

Abraxas  (Greek).  One  of  the  horses 
of  Auro'ra.  The  letters  of  this  word  iu 
Greek  make  up  365,  the  number  of  days 
in  the  year, 

Actce'on  (Greek,  "effulgence").  One 
of  the  horses  of  the  Sun. 

Jlithon  (Greek,  "fiery  red").  One 
of  the  horses  of  the  Sun. 

A'eton.  One  of  the  horses  of  Pluto. 
Greek,  "  swift  as  an  eagle." 

Agnes.     (See  below.  Black  Agnes.) 

Alborak.     (See  Borak.) 

Alfa'na.  Gradasso's  horse.  The  word 
means  "a  mare."     {Orlando  Furioso.) 

Alige'ro  Clarile'no.  The  "wooden-pin 
wing-horse"  which  Don  Quixote  and 
his  squire  mounted  to  achieve  the  de- 
liverance of  Dolori'da  and  her  com- 
panions. 

Alsii'dur.  One  of  the  horses  of  Sunna. 
The  word  means  "  all  scorching."  {Scati- 
dinarian  mythology.) 

Amethe'a  (Greek).  One  of  the  horses 
of  the  Sun,  The  word  means  "no 
loiterer." 

Aq'uiline  (3  syl.).  Raymond's  steed, 
bred  on  the  banks  of  the  Tagus.  The 
word  means  "like  an  eagle,"  {Tasso : 
Jerusalem  IkTivered .) 

Ari'on  (Greek).  Hercules' horse,  given 
to  Adras'tos.  The  horse  of  Neptune, 
brought  out  of  the  earth  by  striking  it 
with  his  trident ;  its  right  feet  were 
those  of  a  human  creature,  it  spoke  with 
a  human  voice,  and  ran  with  incredible 
swiftness.  The  word  means  "  martial," 
i.e.  "  war-horse." 

Ar'undcl.  The  horse  of  Bevis  of 
Southampton.  The  word  means  "swift 
as  a  swallow,"  (French,  hirondelle,  ^' a 
swallow.") 

Arva'kur.  One  of  the  horses  of  Sunna. 
The  word  means  "  splendid."  {Scandi- 
navian mythology.) 

Aslo.  One  of  the  horses  of  Sunnia, 
{Scandinavian  mythology.) 


Horse 


62.') 


Horse 


Bahlc'ca  (Sjianish,  "a  simpleton"). 
The  Cid's  horse.  He  survived  liis  master 
two  years  and  a  half,  during  which  time 
no  one  was  allowed  to  mount  him ;  and 
when  he  died  he  was  buried  before  the 
gate  of  the  monastery  at  Valencia,  and 
two  elms  were  planted  to  mark  the  site. 
The  horse  was  so  called  because,  when 
Eodrigo  in  his  youth  was  given  the 
choice  of  a  horse,  he  passed  by  the  most 
esteemed  ones  and  selected  a  rough  colt ; 
whereupon  las  godfather  called  the  lad 
huhliea  (a  dolt),  and  Rodrigo  transferred 
the  appellation  to  his  horse. 

lUijay'do.  liinaldo's  horse,  of  a  bright 
bay  colour,  once  the  property  of  Am'adis 
of  Gaul.  It  was  found  by  Malagi'gi,  the 
wizard,  in  a  cave  guarded  by  a  dragon, 
which  the  wizard  slew.  According  to 
tradition,  it  is  still  alive,  but  floes  at  the 
approach  of  man,  so  that  no  one  can  ever 
hope  to  catch  him.  The  word  means  of 
a  "  bay  colour."     {Orlando  I'lirio.w.) 

Bar'ton  (Greek,  "  swift").  One  of  the 
horses  given  by  Neptune  to  Peleus.  It 
afterwards  belonged  to  Achilles.  Like 
Xanthos,  its  sire  was  the  West-wind, 
and  its  dam  Swift-foot  the  harpy. 

Bayard.  The  horse  of  the  four  sons 
of  Aymon,  which  grew  larger  or  smaller 
as  one  or  more  of  the  four  sous  mounted 
it.  According  to  tradition,  one  of  the 
foot-prints  may  still  be  seen  in  the  forest 
of  Soignes,  and  another  on  a  rock  near 
Dinant.  The  word  means  "  bright  bay 
colour." 

Also  the  horse  of  FitzJames. 

"  stand,  I3:i,vanl,  st.-uul  !    Tlie  steod  "ticycil 
With  arcliing  neck,  aiul  licnded  head. 
And  (rlariu),'  eye,  and  ijuiverinu'  ear, 
As  if  lie  h)ved  his  lord  to  he.ar." 

Sir  W.  Scott:  J.ady  of  the  Lake,  xviii. 

Barhary.     (SeS  Bonn  Bnrhary.) 

Be'ris.  The  horse  of  Lord  Mar'mion. 
The  word  is  Norse,  and  means  "  swift." 
{Sir  ir.  Scott.) 

Black  Ayiics.  The  palfrey  of  Mary 
Queen  of  Scots,  given  her  by  her  brother 
Moray,  and  named  after  Agnes  of  Dun- 
bar, a  countess  in  her  own  right. 

Black  Bess.  The  famous  mare  ridden 
by  the  highwaym.an  DickTurpin,  which, 
tradition  says,  carried  him  from  Loudon 
to  York. 

Black  Sahidin.  Warwick's  famous 
horse,  which  was  coal-black.  Its  sire 
was  Malech,  and,  according  to  tradition, 
when  the  race  of  Malech  failed,  the 
race  of  Warwick  would  fail  also.  And 
it  was  so. 

Borak  (AI).  The  "  horse  "  which  con- 
veyed Mahomet  from  earth  to  the  seventh 
heaven.  It  was  milk-white,  had  the 
wings  of  an  eagle,  and  a  human  face, 

40 


with  horse's  cheeks.  Every  pace  she 
took  was  equal  to  the  farthest  range  of 
human  sight.  The  word  is  Arabic  for 
"the  lightning." 

Br'xy'adore  (3  syl.)  or  Briyliadore 
[Bril-j-ar-dore].  Sir  Guyon's  horse, 
which  had  a  distinguishing  black  spot 
in  its  mouth,  like  a  horse-shoe  in  shajie. 
{Spenser  :  Faerie  Quccne,  v.  2.) 

Brigliadiyro  [Bril-ya-do'ro].  Orlan- 
do's famous  charger,  second  only  to 
Bayardo  in  swiftness  and  wonderful 
powers.  The  word  means  "golden- 
bridle."     {Orlando  F/irioso,  etc.) 

Bronte  ("2  syl.).  One  of  the  horses  of 
the  Sun.     The  word  means  "  thunder." 

Bronzomartc  (3  syl.).  The  horse  of  Sir 
Launcelot  Greaves.  The  word  means 
"  a  mettlesome  sorrel." 

J!roa-n  Hal.     A  model  pacing  stallion. 

Biiccph'alofi  (Greek).  The  celebrated 
charger  of  Alexander  the  Great.  Alex- 
ander was  the  only  person  who  could 
mount  him,  and  he  always  knelt  down 
to  take  up  his  master.  He  was  thirty 
years  old  at  death,  and  Alexander  built 
a  city  for  his  mausoleum,  which  he 
called  Buceph'ala.  The  word  means 
"  ox-head." 

Capilet  (Grey).  The  horse  of  Six* 
Andrew  Aguecheek.  {Shakespeare  : 
Tu-elfth  Night,  iii.  4.)  A  capilet  or 
capulet  is  a  small  wen  on  the  horse's 
hock. 

Carman.  The  Chevalier  Bayard's 
horse,  given  him  by  the  Duke  of  Lor- 
rain.  It  was  a  Persian  horse  from 
Korman  or  Carmen  (Laristan). 

Ce'ler.  The  horse  of  the  Romnn 
Emperor  Ve'rus.  It  was  fed  on  almonds 
and  raisins,  covered  with  royal  inirple, 
and  stalled  in  the  imperial  palace. 
(Latin  for  "swift.") 

Cerus.  The  horse  of  Adrastos,  swifter 
than  the  wind  {I'ausanias).  The  word 
means  "  fit." 

Cesar.     A  model  Percheron  stallion. 

Clarileno.     (See  Aliycro.) 

Comrade  (2  syl.).  Fortunio's  fairy 
horse. 

Copcnha'ycn.  Wellington's  charger 
at  Waterloo.  It  died  in  183.5  at  the  age 
of  twenty-seven.  Napoleon's  horse  was 
Marengo. 

Curial  (Bay).  The  horse  of  Lord  La- 
feu.  {Shakespeare :  AlVs  Well  that 
Ends  Well,  ii.  3.)  The  word  means 
"cropped." 

Cut.  The  carrier's  horse.  {Shake- 
speare: 1  Henry  IV.,  act  ii.  1.)  A 
familiar  name  of  a  horse.  The  word 
may  be  taken  to  mean  either  ' '  cas- 
trated"  or  "  cropped." 


Horse 


626 


Horse 


Cyl'laros  (Greek).  Named  from  Cylla, 
in  Troas,  a  celebrated  horse  of  Castor 
or  of  Pollux. 

Dapple.  Sanclio  Panza's  ass  (in  the 
History  of  Don  Quixote  dc  la  Maricha, 
by  Cervantes).  So  called  from  its  coloiu". 

Di'nos  (Greek).  Diomed's  horse. 
The  word  means  "  the  marvel." 

Dhuldul.  The  famous  horse  of  Ali, 
son-in-law  of  Mahomet. 

Doomstead.  The  horse  of  tlie  Konis 
or  Fates.     {Seandinaviaii  mythology.) 

Eoos  (Greek,  "  dawn  ").  One  of  the 
horses  of  Aurora. 

Eryth'reos  (Greek,  "red-producer"). 
One  of  the  horses  of  the  Sun. 

Ethon  (Greek,  "fiery").  One  of  the 
horses  of  Hector. 

Fadda.     Mahomet's  white  mule. 

Ferrant  d'Fspnyue.  The  horse  of 
Oliver.  The  word  means  ' '  the  Spanish 
traveller." 

Fiddle-back.  Oliver  Goldsmith's  un- 
fortunate pony. 

Fnntaletto.  Sacripant's  charger.  The 
word  means  "little  head."  {Ariosto : 
Orlando  Furioso.) 

Fronti'no  or  Frontin.  Once  called 
"  Balisarda."  Roge'ro's  or  Rugie'ro's 
horse.  The  word  means  "  little  head." 
(^Ariosto  :  Orlando  Furioso,  etc.) 

Gul'atlte  (3  syl.).  One  of  Hector's 
horses.  The  word  means  "  cream- 
coloured." 

Gihlas.  A  model  German  coach  stallion. 

Grane  ('2  syl.).  Siegfried's  horse,  of 
marvellous  swiftness.  The  word  means 
"grey-coloured." 

Grey  Capilct.     (See  CapiJet.) 

Grizzle.  Dr.  Syntax's  horse,  all  skin 
and  bone.  The  word  means  "  grey- 
coloured." 

Halz'um.  The  horse  of  the  archangel 
Gabriel.     {Koran.) 

lla/pago/s  (Greek,  "  one  that  carries 
off  rapidly.")  One  of  the  horses  of 
Castor  and  Pollux. 

Htp'pocam'pes  (4  syl.).  One  of  Nep- 
tune's horses.  It  had  only  two  legs, 
the  hinder  quarter  being  that  of  a 
dragon's  t;iil  or  fish. 

Honest  Tom.  A  model  shire  stallion, 
1105. 

Hrimfaxi.  The  horse  of  Night,  from 
whose  bit  fall  the  "rime-drops  "  which 
every  night  bedew  tlie  earth  {i.e.  frost- 
mane].     (Scandinavian  mytholoyy.) 

Ildtrim.     A  model  Aralaiau  stallion. 

India' t us.  The  horse  of  the  Roman 
Emperor  Calig'ula,  made  priest  and  con- 
sul. It  had  an  ivory  manger,  and  drank 
wine  out  of  a  golden  pail.  The  word 
means  "  spurred-on." 


Jenny  Geddes  (1  sjd.).  Robert  Burns's 
mare. 

Kan'taka.  The  white  horse  of  Prince 
Gautama  of  India  (Budda). 

Kelpy  or  Kelpie.  The  water-horse  of 
fairy  mythology.  Tlie  word  means  "  of 
tlie  colour  of  kelp  or  sea-weed." 

Kerrela.  A  model  French  coach  stal- 
lion, 134  2. 

Lampon  (Greek,  "the  bright  one"). 
One  of  the  horses  of  Diomed. 

Lampos  (Greek,  "  shining  like  a 
lamp").  One  of  the  steeds  of  the  Sun 
at  noon. 

Lamri.  King  Arthur's  mare.  The 
word  means  "  the  curveter. " 

Leiston.  A  model  Suffolk  stallion, 
141.5. 

Lconatus.  A  model  thorough-bred 
stallion. 

Maren'yo.  The  white  stallion  which 
Napoleon  rode  at  Waterloo.  Its  remains 
are  now  in  the  Mu.seum  of  the  United 
Services,  London.  It  is  represented  in 
Vernet's  jjicture  of  Napoleon  Crossiny 
the  Alps.  Wellington's  horse  was 
called  Copenhagen. 

Matchless  of  Londcshorough.  A  model 
hacknej'  stallion. 

Malech.     (See  Blaclc  Saladiu.) 

Maroceo.  Banks's  famous  horse.  Its 
shoes  were  of  silver,  and  one  of  its 
exploits  was  to  mount  the  steeple  of  St. 
Paul's. 

Molly.  Sir  Charles  Napier's  mare. 
It  died  at  the  age  of  35. 

Nohbs.  The  steed  of  Dr.  Dove  of 
Doncaster.     {Soutltcy.) 

Konios.     One  of  the  horses  of  Pluto. 

Ore' Ha.  The  charger  of  Roderick,  last 
of  the  Goths,  noted  for  its  speed  and 
symmetry.     (Sou  they.) 

I'ale  Horse  (The)  on  which  Death  rides. 
(Rev.  vi.  8.) 

Falo  Alto.     A  model  trotting  stallion. 

Fiisse  Brewcll.  Sir  Tristram's  charger. 
{Hist,  of  Frince  Arthur,  ii.  68.) 

I'eg'asos.  The  winged  horse  of  Apollo 
and  the  Muses.  (Greek,  "bom  near 
the  pege  or  source  of  the  ocean.")  Per- 
seus rode  him  when  he  rescued  An- 
dromeda. 

FhactoH  (Greek,  "  the  shining  one  "). 
One  of  the  steeds  of  Auro'ra. 

I'hallas.  The  horse  of  Herac'lios. 
The  word  means  "  stallion." 

Fhleg'on  (Greek,  "the  burning  or 
blazing  one  ").  One  of  the  horses  of 
the  Noon-day  Sun. 

Fhre'nicos.  The  horse  of  Hiero,  of 
Syracuse,  that  won  the  Olympic  prize 
for  single  horses  in  the  seventy-third 
Olympiad.    It  means  "  intelligent." 


Horse 


627 


Horse 


Podar'ge  (3  syl.).  One  of  the  horses 
of  Hector.  The  word  means  "swift- 
foot." 

FriiiceRoi/al.  A  model  Belgian  stallion. 

Pn'roeis  [pu'-r6-ice].  One  of  the 
horses  of  the  Noou-day  Sun.  (Greek, 
"fiery  hot.") 

Huoica'no  or  Eab'ican.  Argali'a's  horse 
in  Orlando  Innamorato,  and  Astolpho's 
horse  in  Orlando  Furioso.  Its  dam  was 
Fire,  its  sire  Wind  ;  it  fed  on  unearthly 
food.  The  word  means  a  horse  with  a 
"  dark  tail  but  with  some  white  hairs." 

"Kal>icano  (adj.),  que  se  applica  al'caliallo  que 
tieiie  algunas  cerdas  blaacas  in  la  cohi."— SaiPit  ; 
Spanish  Dictionary. 

Iteksh.    Rustem's  horse. 
Jlimfaxi.     (See  Hrimfaxi.) 
lioan  Barbary.    The  favourite  horse 
of  King  Richard  II. 
"  When  Boliiigbroke  rode  on  Roan  Barharj- 
That  horse  ihat  thou  8o  often  hast  bestnd." 
Shakespeare:  Michard  lI.,\.o. 

Ronald.  Lord  Cardigan's  thorough- 
bred chestnut,  with  white  stockings  on 
the  near  hind  and  fore  feet.  It  carried 
him  through  the  Balaclava  Charge. 

Ros'abdh  (3  syl.).  The  favourite 
palfrey  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots. 

Rosinan'te  (4  syl.).  Don  Quixote's 
horse,  all  skin  and  bone.  The  word 
means  "formerly  a  hack." 

Ros'signol.  The  palfrey  of  Madame 
Chutelet  of  Cirey,  the  lady  with  whom 
Voltaire  resided  for  ten  years. 

Royalty.  A  model  Cleveland  bay 
stallion. 

Saladin.    (See  Black  Saladin.) 

Savoy.  The  favourite  black  horse  of 
Charles  VIII.  of  France  ;  so  called  from 
the  Duke  of  Savoy  who  gave  it  liim.  It 
had  but  one  eye,  and  "was  mean  in 
stature." 

Shib'diz.  The  Persian  Buceph'alos, 
fleeter  than  the  wind.  It  was  the 
charger  of  Chosroes  II.  of  Persia. 

iSkinfaxi.  The  steed  which  draws  the 
car  of  day.  The  word  means  "shin- 
ing mane."     (Scandinavian  mythology.) 

Sleipnir  (Slipe'neer).  Odin's  grey  horse, 
which  had  eight  legs  and  could  traverse 
either  land  or  sea.  The  horse  typifies 
the  wind  which  blows  over  land  and 
water  from  eight  principal  points. 

Sorrel.  The  horse  of  William  III., 
which  stumbled  by  catching  his  foot  in 
a  mole-heap.  This  accident  ultimately 
caused  the  king's  death.  Sorrel,  like 
Savoy,  was  blind  of  one  eye,  and 
"mean  of  stature." 

Spumador.  King  Arthur's  horse.  The 
word  means  ' '  the  foaming  one. ' ' 

Strymon.  The  horse  immolated  by 
Xerxes    before    he    invaded     Greece. 


Named  from  the  river  Strj-mon,  in 
Thrace,  from  which  vicinity  it  came. 

Suleiman.  The  favom-ite  charger  of 
the  Earl  of  Essex. 

Tachebrune  {q.r.).  The  horse  of  Ogier 
the  Dane. 

Tre'bizond.  The  grey  horse  of  Ad- 
miral Guari'nos,  one  of  tlie  French 
knights  taken  at  RoncesvallGs. 

]'eglia)iti'no  [Vail-yan-te'-no].  The 
famous  steed  of  Orlando,  called  in  French 
romance  Veillantif,  Orlando  being  called 
Roland.  The  word  means  "  the  little 
vigilant  one." 

White  Surrey.    The  favoxirite  horse  of 

King  Richard  III. 

"  Saddle  White  Sun-ey  for  the  field  to-morrow." 
Shakespeare :  Richard  III.,  v.  3. 

Wzmahh.     A  model  OrlofF  stallion. 
Wooden  Horse.     {See  Woodkn.) 
Xanthos.  One  of  the  horses  of  Achilles, 
who  announced  to  the  hero  his  approach- 
ing death  when  imjustly  chidden  by  him. 
Its  sire  was  Zephyros,  and  dam  Fodarge 
(q.v.).      The    word    means   "chestnut- 
coloured." 
{See  Hunters  and  Runnees.) 
"    0''Fonohue''s   white   horse.      Those 
waves  which    come    on  a  windy   day, 
crested  with  foam.      The  spirit   of  the 
hero  reappears  every  May-day,  and  is  seen 
gliding,  to  sweet  but  unearthly  music, 
over  the    lakes    of    Killiruey,    on    his 
favourite  white  horse.      It  is   preceded 
by  groups  of  young  men  and  maidens, 
who  fling  spring-flowers  in  "his    path. 
{Derrick'' s  Letters.) 

T.  Moore  has  a  poem  on  the  subject 
in  his  Irish  Melodies,  No.  vi.  ;  it  is 
entitled  0' Bonohue'' s  3fi  stress,  and 
refers  to  a  tradition  that  a  young  and 
beautiful  girl  became  enamoured  of  the 
visionary  chieftain,  and  threw  herself 
into  the  lake  that  he  might  carry  her  off 
for  his  bride. 

H  Horse. 

In  Phrase  and  Proverb. 

A  dark  horse.  A  horse  whose  merits 
as  a  racer  are  not  known  to  the  general 
public. 

Flogging  the  dead  horse.  {Sec  Flog- 
ging.) 

Riding  the  wooden  horse.  A  military 
punishment  now  discontinued.  It  was 
a  flogging-stool. 

I  will  win  the  horse  or  lose  the  saddle. 
Neck  or  nothing  ;  double  or  quits.  Milton 
makes  Satan  say,  "Better  to  reign  in 
hell  than  serve  in  heaven." 

latin :    "  Aut  ter  sex,  aut  tres  tes- 
serae."    {SceTER  S3X.) 
"  Au  Caesar,  aut  nuUus." 


Horse 


628 


Horse- slioes 


French  :  "  Tout  on  rien." 

"  Je  veux  risquer  Ic  tout  pour 
le  tout." 

T/w)/  cannot  draw  (or  set)  Iiorscs  to- 
gether. They  cannot  agree  together. 
The  French  say,  "  lios  chiens  ne  chassent 
pas  enficmhlc.'''' 

II  "T'ts  a  Trojan  horse  (Latin  proverb). 
A  deception,  a  concealed  danger.  Thus 
Cicero  says,  '■'■  Jnfus,  intns,  inqiinm,  est 
equus  Truja'niis"  {I'ro  Mureiia,  78).  It 
was  Epeos  who  made  the  Trojan  horse. 

H  '  jfV«  a  good  horse  that  never  stmnhles. 
Everyone  has  liis  faults.  Every  black 
has  its  white,  and  every  sweet  its  sour. 

Latin:    "  Qiianddque   liniuis  dorniUat  Homcriis." 
Horace:  Am  Poetica,X)i). 

"  Humanum  est,  enare." 
French:  "  II  ii'y  a  lion  chcval  iiui  ne  hronclie,"  or 

"II  n'est  si  Ijim  cheval  qui  ue  lirouche." 

To  get  ifpoH  one''s  high  horse.  To  give 
oneself  aii's.     (Sec  High  Hoese.) 

To  set  the  cart  before  the  horse.  (See 
Caet.) 

When  the  horse  (or  steed)  is  stolen, 
lock  the  stable  door.  The  French  say : 
*^ Apres  la  mort,  le  medicine.''''  Some- 
what similar  is  :  "  After  beef,  mustard." 

TForking    on    the   dead   horse.       {See 

WOEKINO. ) 

Horse.  Coarse,  acrid  or  pungent,  in- 
ferior of.  its  kind,  rough.  "  Hoarse  "  is 
the  Anglo -Saxou  Jias. 

Horse-bean.  The  bean  usually  given 
to  horses  for  food. 

Horse-chestnut.  If  a  slip  is  cut  off 
obli(juely  close  to  a  joint,  it  will  present 
a  perfect  miniature  of  a  horse's  hock 
and  foot,  shoe  and  nails.  I  have  cut  off 
numerous  specimens.  Probably  this  has 
given  the  name  Jiorse  to  the  tree.     {See 

HOESE-VETCH.) 

Horse-faced.  Having  a  long,  coarse 
face. 

Horse  Latitudes.  A  region  of  calms 
between  30=  and  35^  North ;  so  called 
because  ships  laden  with  horses  bound 
to  America  or  the  West  Indies  were 
often  obliged  to  lighten  tlieii-  freight  by 
casting  the  horses  overboard  when  calm- 
bound  in  these  latitudes. 

"  Notliing  could  have  been  more  delightful 
than  our  run  Into  the  horse  latitudes.  Gales 
and  dead  calms,  terrible  thunderstorms  and 
breezes,  fair  one  hour  and  foul  the  next,  are  the 
characteristics  of  these  parallels.  Numbers  of 
horses  were  exported  from  the  mother  country, 
and  it  was  reckoned  that  iiKU-e  of  the  animals 
died  in  these  .  .  .  latitudes  than  in  all  the  vest  of 
the  passage."— CZai-fc  Eussdl:  Ladii  Muud,  vol.  i. 
chap.  vii.  p.  18«. 

Horse-laugh.  A  coarse,  vulgar  laugh. 

"He  plays  rough  pranks  ,  .  .  and  has  a  big 
horse-laugh  in  him  when  there  is  a  fop  to  be 
roasted.  —Carlisle:  Frederick  the  Great,  vol.  i. 
DOOk  IV.  chap.  11.  p.  305, 


Horse  Marines  {The).  There  is  no 
such  force.  The  Royal  Marines  are 
either  artillery  or  infantry  ;  there  are  no 
cavalry  marines.  To  belong  to  the 
"Horse  Marines"  is  a  joke,  meaning 
an  awkward  lubberly  recruit. 

Horse-milliner.  Properly,  one  who 
makes  up  and  supplies  decorations  for 
horses. 

A  horse-soldier  more  fit  for  the  toilet 
than  the  battle-field.  The  expression 
was  first  used  by  Rowley  in  his  JJat/ads  of 
Charitic,  but  Sir  Walter  Scott  revived  it. 

"  One  comes  in  foreign  trashery 
Of  tinkling  chain  and  spur, 
A  walking  liahei-ilashiTv 

or  r.'ailurs,  laic,  and  fiir  ; 
In  Kiiu  Irv's  iiiiti'|ii:ili-il  ijhrase. 
llnr.se  miliiiuT  of  modi-ru  days." 

liiidal  iif  Tiiinituiii,  ii.  3. 

Horse-mint.    The  pungent  mint. 

Horse-play.    Rougli  play. 

Similarly  hoarse,  liaving  a  rough  voice 
from  iiiflanimation  of  the  throat ;  gorse, 
a  rough,  prickly  plant ;  guosc-berrg,  a 
rough  berry  ;  goose-grass,  the  grass  whose 
leaves  are  rough  with  haii',  etc. 

Horse-power.  A  measure  of  force. 
Watt  estimated  the  "  force  "  of  a  London 
dray-horse,  working  eight  hours  a  day, 
at  33,000  foot-poimds  {q.r.)  per  minute. 
In  calculating  the  horse-iiower  of  a 
steam-engine  the  following  is  the  for- 
mula : — 

iliiA2LJL2i^ deduct  J- for  friction, 
st.txio  1" 

P,  pressure  (in  lbs.)  per  sq.  inch  on  the  piston. 
A,  area  (in  inches)  of  the  piston. 
L,  length  (in  feet)  of  the  stroke. 
N,  number  of  strokes  per  minute. 

Horse  Protestant.  As  good  a  Pro' 
testant  as  Oliver  Croinu-elP s  Jiorse.  This 
expression  arises  in  a  comparison  made 
by  Cromwell  respecting  some  person 
who  had  less  discernment  than  his  horse 
in  the  moot  points  of  the  Protestant 
controversy. 

Horse-radish.    The  pungent  root. 

Horse-shoes  were  at  one  time  nailed 
up  over  doors   as  a  protection   against 
witches.      Aubrey  sa3's,    "Most  houses 
at  the  west-end  of  London  have  a  horse- 
shoe on  the  threshold."      In  Monmouth 
Street  there  were  seventeen  in  1813,  and 
seven  so  late  as  1855. 
"  straws  laid  across  my  path  retard  ; 
The  horse-shoes  nailed,   each  threshold's 
guard."  Gay  :  FiMe  yixiW.  part  1. 

It  is  lachg  to  pick  tip  a  horse-shoe. 
This  is  from  the  notion  that  a  horse-shoe 
was  a  protection  against  witches.  For 
the  same  reason  our  superstitious  fore- 
fathers loved  to  nail  a  horse -shoe  oa 


Horse-vetch 


629 


Host 


their  house-door.  Lord  Nelson  had  one 
nailed  to  the  mast  of  the  ship  Victory. 

V  There  is  a  legend  that  the  devil 
one  day  asked  St.  Duustau,  who  was 
noted  for  his  skill  in  shoeing  horses,  to 
shoe  his  "  single  hoof."  Dunstan, 
knowing  who  his  customer  was,  tied  him 
tightly  to  the  wall  and  proceeded  with 
his  job,  but  iDurposely  put  the  devil  to 
so  much  pain  that  he  roared  for  mercy. 
Duustau  at  last  consented  to  release 
his  captive  on  condition  that  lie  would 
never  enter  a  place  where  he  saw  a 
horse-shoe  displayed. 

Horse-vetch.  The  vetch  which  has 
pods  shaped  like  a  horse-shoe  ;  some- 
times called  the  "  horse-shoe  vetch." 
{Sec  HoESE  Chestnut.') 

Horse    and    his    Rider.      One    of 

iEsop's  fables,  to  show  that  nations 
crave  the  assistance  of  others  when  they 
are  aggrieved,  but  become  the  tools  or 
slaves  of  those  who  rendered  them  assist- 
ance. Thus  the  Celtic  Britons  asked  aid 
of  the  Saxons,  and  the  Danish  Duchies 
of  the  Germans,  but  in  both  cases  the 
rider  made  the  horse  a  mere  tool. 

Horse-shoes  and  Nails  (for  rent) .  In 
1 2.3 1  Walter  le  Brun,  farrier,  in  the  Strand, 
London,  was  to  have  a  ijiece  of  land  in 
the  parish  of  St.  Clements,  to  place  there 
a  forge,  for  which  he  was  to  pay  the 
parish  six  horse-shoes,  which  rent  was 
paid  to  the  Exchequer  every  year,  and 
is  still  rendered  to  the  Exchequer  by  the 
Lord  Mayor  and  citizens  of  London,  to 
whom  subsequently  the  piece  of  ground 
was  granted. 

"  Tn  the  reisn  of  King  Edward  I.  Walter  Mares- 
cullus  paid  at  the  criteem  lapidcam  six  horse-slioes 
with  nails,  for  a  certain  building  which  he  held 
of  the  king  m  capite  opiiosite  the  stone  cross."— 
Blount :  Ancient  Tenures. 

Horsemen. 

L'uilit  liorse»ic)>.  Tliose  who  live  by 
phnideriiig  ships. 

Iharij  horscnicn.  Those  who  go  aboard 
to  clear  ships. 

Horsey  Man  {A).  One  who  affects 
the  manners  aud  style  of  a  jockey  or 
horse-dealer. 

Hortus  Siccus.  (Latin,  "a  dry 
garden.")  A  collection  of  plauts  dried 
and  arranged  in  a  book. 

Ho'rus.  The  Egyptian  day  -  god, 
represented  in  hieroglyphics  by  a 
spaiTow-hawk,  which  bird  was  sacred  to 
him.  He  was  son  of  Osi'ris  aud  Isis, 
but  his  birth  being  premature  he  was 
weak  in  the  lower  limbs.  As  a  child  he 
i?  seen  carried  in  his  mother's  arms, 


wearing  the  pschent  or  atf,  and  seated 
on  a  lotus-flower  with  his  linger  on  his 
lips.  As  an  adult  he  is  represented 
hawk-headed.  (Egyptian,  har  or  hor, 
"  the  day  "  or  "  sun's  path.")  Strictly 
speaking,  Horus  is  the  rising  sun,  Ra 
the  noonday  sun,  and  Osiris  the  setting 
sun.  (Whence  Greek  and  Latin  liora, 
and  our  hour.) 

Hose.  Stockings,  or  stockings  and 
breeches  both  in  one.  French,  chausses. 
There  were  the  hant  dc  chausses  and  the 
has  de  chausses. 

"Their  points  Vicing  broken,  down  fell  their 
hnsc."— Shakespeare :  1  Henry  IV.,  ii.  4. 

Hos'pital.  From  the  Latin  hospcs  (a 
guest),  being  originally  an  inn  or  house 
of  entertainment  for  pilgrims  ;  hence  our 
words  host  (one  who  entertains),  hospi- 
tality (the  entertainment  given),  and 
hospitalhr  (the  keeper  of  the  house).  In 
process  of  time  these  receptacles  were 
resorted  to  by  the  sick  and  iufirm  only, 
and  the  house  of  entertainment  became 
an  asylum  for  the  .sick  aud  wounded. 
In  11399  Katherine  de  la  Court  held  a 
"hospital"  at  the  bottom  of  the  court 
called  Eobert  de  Paris  ;  after  the  lapse 
of  four  years  her  landlord  died,  and  the 
tavern  or  hospital  fell  to  his  heirs  Jehan 
de  Chevreuse  aud  WUham  Cholet. 

Hospital  (The),  in  Post-office  phrase- 
ology, is  the  department  where  loose 
packages  are  set  to  rights. 

Hos'pitallers.  First  applied  to  those 
whose  duty  it  was  to  provide  Itospitlum 
(lodging  aud  entertainment)  forpilgrims. 
The  most  noted  institution  of  the  kind 
was  at  Jerusalem,  which  gave  its  name 
to  an  order  called  the  Knights  Hospital- 
lers. This  order  was  first  called  that  of 
the  Knights  of  St.  John  at  Jerusalem, 
which  still  exists  ;  afterwards  they  were 
styled  the  Knights  of  Ehodes,  and  then 
Knights  of  Malta,  because  Ehodes  and 
Malta  were  conferred  on  them  by  differ- 
ent monarchs. 

"The  first  crusade  . . .  led  to  the  establishment 
of  the  Christian  kinsiloiu  i.f  .lerusaleni,  in  liM). 
The  chief  strength  of  the  kingdom  lay  in  the  two 
orders  of  military  Uiiinks— the  Templars  and  the 
Hospitallers  or  Knights  of  .St.  John."— f  rctwaJJ  : 
General  Sketch,  chap.  xi. 

Host.  A  victim.  The  consecrated 
bread  of  the  Eucharist  is  so  called  in  the 
Latin  Church  because  it  is  believed  to  be 
a  real  victim  cousistiug  of  flesh,  blood, 
and  spii'it,  offered  up  in  sacrifice.  (Latin, 
hostia.)  At  the  service  known  as  the 
Benediction  it  is  set  ujj  for  adoration, 
and  with  it  the  blessiug  is  given  in  a 
transparent  vessel  called  a  "monstrance," 
(Latin,  monstrdrc,  to  show.) 


Hostage 


630 


Hound 


Host.  An  army.  At  the  breaking  up 
of  the  Roman  Empire  the  first  duty  of 
every  subject  was  to  follow  his  lord  into 
the  field,  and  the  proclamation  was 
banni'-re  in  /wstcin  (to  order  out  against 
the  foe),  which  soon  came  to  signify  "  to 
order  out  for  military  service,"  and 
hostemfacere  came  to  mean  "to  perform 
military  service."  Hostis  (military 
service)  next  came  to  mean  the  arniij 
that  went  against  the  foe,  whence  our 
word  host. 

"  Like  tbe  leave.3  of  the  forest,  when  summer  is 
green, 
That  host  with  their  hanners   at   sunset  was 

seen  ; 
Like  the  leaves  of  the  forest,  when  autumn  has 

blown. 
That  host  on  the   morrow  lay  withered   and 
strown." 
Byron:  Destruction  of  Sennacherib,  stanza  2. 

To  reckon  Kithout  yoiirJiost.  To  reckon 
from  your  own  standpoint  onlj'.  Guests 
who  calculate  what  their  expenses  at  an 
hotel  will  come  to  always  leave  out  cer- 
tain items  which  the  landlord  adds  in. 

"  Found  in  few  minutes,  to  his  cost. 
He  did  hut  count  without  his  host." 
Buthr :  JIudibras,  pt.  i.  canto  iii.  lines  i2-3. 

Hos'tage  (2  syl.)  is  connected  with 
the  Latin  o/>scs,  through  the  Mid.  Latin 
.hostac/ium,  French  6tage  or  outage,  Itahan 

OSt(U/[/io. 

Hos'tler  is  properly  the  keeper  of 
an  hostelry  or  inn. 

Hot.  rU  onake  the  place  too  hot  to 
hold  him.     {See  Tajjus.) 

I^ll  give  it  him  hot  and  strong.  I'll 
rate  him  most  soundly  and  severely. 
Liquor  very  hot  and  strong  takes  one's 
breath  away,  and  is  apt  to  choke  one. 

Hot  Cockles.  A  Christmas  game. 
One  blindfolded  knelt  down,  and  being 
struck  had  to  guess  who  gave  the  blow. 

"  Thus  poets  passing  time  awav. 
Lilve  children  at  hot-cockles  "play."    (IC53.) 

Hot  Cross  Buns.  Fosbroke  says 
these  buns  were  made  of  the  dough 
kneaded  for  the  host,  and  were  marked 
with  the  cross  accordingly.  As  the 
Good  Friday  buns  are  said  "to  keep  for 
twelve  months  without  turning  raouldj', 
some  persons  still  hang  up  one  or  more 
in  their  house  as  a  "  charm  against  evil." 
(6Vd;  Cross.) 

?  The  round  bun  represents  the  full 
moon,  and  the  cross  represents  the  four 
quarters  of  the  moon.  They  were  made 
in  honour  of  Diana  by  the  ancient 
Roman  priests,  somewhere  about  the 
vernal  equinox.  Phoenicians,  Carthag- 
inians, Egyptians,  as  well  as  the  Greeks 
and  Romans,  worshipped  the  moon. 


Hot-foot.     With  speed  ;  fast. 

"  And  the  IJlackfoot  who  courted  each  foeiEan's 
apiuciach. 
Faith,  'tis  hotfoot  he'dliy  from  tlio  stout  Father 
Koach."  LoriT. 

N.B.  The  Blackfoot  was  an  Irish 
faction,  similar  to  the  Terry  Alts  in  the 
early  jjart  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Hot  Water  (/«)•  I'l  a  state  of 
trouble,  or  of  tiuxiety.  The  reference  is 
to  the  ordeal  l)y  hot  water  {'j.t'.). 

Hotch-pot.  Blackstone  says  liotch- 
pot  is  a  pudding  made  of  several  things 
mixed  together.  Lands  given  in  frank- 
maiTiage  or  descending  in  fee-simple 
are  to  be  mixed,  like  the  ingredients 
of  a  pudding,  and  then  cut  up  in  equal 
slices  among  all  the  daughters.  (Book 
ii.  11'.) 

As  to  personality :  Hotch-pot  may  be 
explained  thus :  Suppose  a  father  has 
advanced  mone}'  to  one  child,  at  the  de- 
cease of  the  father  this  child  receives 
a  sum  in  addition  enough  to  make  his 
share  equal  to  the  rest  of  the  familj'. 
If  not  content,  he  must  bring  into 
hotch-pot  the  money  that  was  advanced, 
and  the  whole  is  then  divided  amongst 
all  the  children  according  to  the  terms 
of  the  will. 

French,  hochepot,  from  hocher,  to  shake 
or  jumble  together ;  or  from  the  German 
hoch-pot,  the  huge  pot  or  family  caldron. 
Wharton  says  it  is  hache  en  poche. 

Hotch-potch.  A  confused  mixture 
or  jumble ;  a  thick  broth  containing 
meat  and  vegetables. 

"  A  sort  of  soup,  or  broth,  or  Itcw, 

Or  hotchpotch  of  all  sorts  of  fishes." 
Thackeray  :  Ballad  of  Duuillabaisse,  stanza  2. 

Hot'spur.  A  fiery  person  who  has 
no  control  over  his  temper.  Harry  Percy 
was  so  called.  Lord  Derby  was  some- 
times called  the '^  Hotspur  of  delnite.'" 
Lytton,  in Xew  Timon,  calls  him,  "frank 
haughtj',  bold,  the  Rupert  of  debate." 
(See  Shakespeare  :  1  Henri/  I  J'.) 

Hottentot.  Rude,  uncultured,  a  boor. 
As  "You  are  a  jjcrfect  Hottentot." 

Hou'goumont  is  said  to  be  a  cor- 
ruption of  Chateau  Gounwnt ;  but  Victor 
Hugo  says  it  is  Hiigo-mons,  and  thai  the 
house  was  built  by  Hugo,  Sire  de  Som- 
meril,  the  same  person  that  endowed  the 
sixth  chapelry  of  the  abbey  of  Villers. 

Hound.  To  hound  a  person  is  to 
persecute  him,  or  rather  to  set  on  per- 
sons to  annoy  him,  as  hounds  are  let 
from  the  slips  at  a  hare  or  stag. 

"As  he  who  only  lets  loose  a  greyhound  out  of 
the  slip  is  said  to  hound  him  at  the  hare."— 
Bramhall, 


Houqua 


631 


House 


Hoa'qna.  A  superior  quality  of  tea  ; 
so  called  from  Hoque,  the  celebrated 
IIong-Kong  tea  merchant ;  died  184G. 

Hour.  (Greek  and  Latin,  hora.) 
At  the  eleventh  hour.  Just  in  time 
not  to  be  too  late  ;  only  just  in  time  to 
obtain  some  benefit.  The  allusion  is  to 
the  parable  of  labourers  hii'ed  for  the 
vinej'ard  (Matt.  xx.). 

Mt/  hour  is  not  yet  crime.  The  time  of 
my  death  is  not  yet  fully  come.  The 
allusion  is  to  the  belief  that  the  hour  of 
our  birth  and  death  is  appointed  and 
fixed. 

"  When  .lesus  knew  that  His  hour  was  come ..." 
— John  liii.  1. 

In  an  evil  hour.  Acting  under  an 
unfortunate  impulse.  In  astrology  we 
have  oiu'  lucky  aud  unlucky  hoius. 

In  the  small  hours  of  the  morning. 
One,  two,  and  three,  after  midnight. 

To  keep  good  hours.  To  return  home 
early  every  night ;  to  go  to  bed  betimes. 
^^  Se  retirer  lajiuit  devonns  hcure.''^  In 
Latin,  "  Tempestivc  sc  domiim  recipere.'" 

Hou'ri  (pi.  Ilouri.s).  The  large  black- 
ej-ed  damsels  of  Paradise,  possessed  of 
perpetual  j'outh  and  beauty,  whose  vir- 
ginity is  renewable  at  pleasure.  Every 
believer  will  have  seventy-two  of  these 
houris  in  Paradise,  and  his  intercourse 
with  them  will  bo  fruitful  or  otherwise, 
according  to  his  wish.  If  an  offspring  is 
desired,  it  will  grow  to  full  estate  in  an 
horn'.  (Persian,  huri;  Arabic,  huriya, 
nj'mphs  of  paradise.  Compare  aliivar, 
black-eyed.)     [The  Koran.) 

House  (1  syl.).  In  astrology  the 
whole  heaven  is  divided  into  twelve 
portions,  called  "  houses,"  through 
which  the  heavenly  bodies  pass  every 
twenty-four  hours.  In  casting  a  man's 
fortune  by  the  stars,  the  whole  host  is 
divided  iiito  two  parts  (beginning  from 
the  east),  six  above  and  six  below  the 
horizon.  The  eastern  ones  are  called 
the  aseendanf,  because  they  are  about  to 
rise  ;  the  other  six  are  the  dcseendunt, 
because  they  have  already  passed  the 
zenith.  The  twelve  houses  are  thus 
awarded : — 

(1)  House  of  life  ;  (2)  House  of  fortune 
and  riches ;  (3)  House  of  brethi-en  ;  (4) 
House  of  relatives  ;  (-'i)  House  of  chil- 
dren ;  (6)  House  of  health. 

(7)  House  of  marriage  ;  (8)  House  of 
death  (the  upper  portal) ;  (9)  House  of 
religion;  (10)  House  of  dignities;  (11) 
House  of  friends  and  benefactors  ;  (12) 
House  of  enemies. 


IT  Hor.se.    A  dwelling. 

lAhe  a  house  afire.  Very  rapidly. 
"He  is  getting  on  like  a  house  afire" 
means  he  is  getting  on  excellently. 

To  bring  down  the  house  (in  a  theatre, 
etc.)  is  to  receive  unusual  and  rapturous 
ajjplause. 

To  keep  house.  To  maintain  a  separate 
establishinent.  "To  go  into  house- 
keeping "  is  to  start  a  private  establish- 
ment. 

To  keep  a  good  house.  To  supply  a 
bountiful  table. 

To  keep  open  house.  To  give  free 
entertainment  to  all  who  choose  to 
come.  "  Umnes  benigne  mensd  oceip^rc.'" 
In  French,  "  Tenir  table  ourerte." 

To  throw  the  house  out  of  the  windows. 
To  throw  all  things  into  confusion  from 
exuberance  of  spirit  {a  des  esees  dejoie). 
"  Ceclum  tcrrcv,  terrain  calo  mi  see  re  ;  "  or 
'■^Omnia  eonfundire.''^  InFrench,  '■'■Jeter 
le  maison  par  le  fenvtrcs.'''' 

H  House.  Race  or  lineage ;  as,  "  the 
House  of  Hanover,"  "the  House  of 
Austria." 

House-bote.  A  sufficient  allowance 
of  wood  to  repair  the  dwelling  aud  to 
supply  fuel. 

House-flag  (v/).  The  distinguishing 
flag  of  a  company  of  shipowners  or  of  a 
single  ship-owner,  as,  for  instance,  that 
of  the  Cunard  Company. 

House-leek  [./ore's  beard].  Grovra 
on  house-roofs,  from  the  notion  that  it 
warded  off  lightning.  Charlemagne 
made  an  edict  that  every  one  of  his 
subjects  should  have  house-leek  on  his 
house-roof.  The  words  are,  '■^  Et  habet 
quisque  supra  domuni  suum  Joris  bar- 
bam."  It  was  thought  to  ward  off  all 
e\'il  spirits.  Fevers  as  well  as  lightning 
were  at  one  time  supposed  to  be  due  to 
evil  spirits. 

"  If  the  herb  house-leek  or  syncreen  do  grow 
on  the  house-top,  the  same  house  i.s  never  stricken 
with  lightning  or  thunder."— :/7io»i(tJi  Uiil ; 
Xiitural  and  Art/.  Conclusion. 

House  Spirits. 

Of  Drnmark,  Nis  or  Nisse  (2  syl.). 
Of  Kni;i..\xii,  Piicli  nr  Roliiii  (ioodfellow. 
Of  Fauok  I.si.ands,  Xiayruisar. 
Of  Finland  Para. 
Of  France,  Esprit  FoUet. 
of  Hkiocany,  Kohold. 
of  MiNSTKR,  Fear  Dearg  or  Red  Man. 
Of  Naples.  Monaciello  or  Little  Monll. 
f)f  Norway,  same  as  Denmarli. 
Of  Scotland,  Brownie. 
Of  Spain,  Duende  (a  syl.). 
Of  Switzerland,  Jacli  of  the  Bowl. 
Of  Vaudois.  Servant. 
'.•  Other.<3  o:  xiarticular  houses. 


Souse -top 


632 


Howard 


House-top.  To  cri/  from  the  house- 
top. To  proclaim  [(<]  from  the  hoiisc-top. 
To  amiouuce  somethiug  in  the  most 
public  manner  jjossible.  Jewish  houses 
had  flat  roofs,  which  were  paved.  Here 
the  ancient  Jews  used  to  assemble  for 
gossip ;  here,  too,  not  uufrequently, 
they  slept ;  and  here  some  of  their  fes- 
tivals were  held.  From  the  house-tops 
the  rising  of  the  sun  was  proclaimed, 
and  other  public  announcements  were 
made. 

"  TliMt  which  ye  have  spoken  [whispeivrt]  in  the 
ear  .  .  .  shall  lie  iiruclaiiiied  upou  the  huuseioiw." 
—Luke  xii.  .'i. 

House  and  Home.  Jle  hnth  eaten 
me  out  of  hoKsr  dial  home  {Shakespeare  : 
2  Hem-i'i  /J'.,  ii.  1).  It  is  the  complaint 
of  hostess  Quickly  to  the  Lord  Cliief 
Justice  when  ho  asks  for  "  what  sum  " 
she  had  aiTested  Sir  John  Falstatt".  She 
explains  the  jihrase  by  "he  hath  put  all 
my  substance  into  that  fat  belly  of  his  ;  " 
"  I  ato  undone  by  his  going." 

House  of  Correction.  A  gaol 
governed  by  a  keeper.  Originally  it 
was  a  place  where  vagrants  were  made 
to  work,  and  small  offenders  were  kept 
in  ward  for  the  correction  of  their 
offences. 

House  of  God  {The).  Not  solely  a 
church,  or  a  temple  made  with  hands, 
but  any  place  sanctified  by  God's  pre- 
sence. Thus,  Jacob  in  the  wilderness, 
where  he  saw  the  ladder  set  up  leading 
from  earth  to  heaven,  said,  "  This  is  none 
other  but  the  house  of  God,  and  this  is 
the  gate  of  heaven  (Gen.  xxviii.  17). 

House  that  Jack  Built  ( The) .  There 
are  numerous  similar  gli  imerations.  For 
example  the  Hebrew  parable  of  Tlte  Two 
Zuzim.     The  summation  runs  thus: — 

in.  This  is  Yavah  wIki  vanciuishea 
!i.  Death  uiiirli  kilh'.! 
f<.  Tlie  liiitrlirr  whirh  slew 
7.  The  ox  NNliii-li  cliiuik 
6.  The  wal'T  whicli  .luenched 
5.  The  hre  whirl]  l.unil 
4.  The  stick  whi.-h  heat 
3.  The  lidS  wliich  worned 
2.  Thecal  which  killed 

1.  Tlie  kid  which  my  falhef  bought  for  two 
ziizini. 

(A  zuzim  was  about  =  a  farthing.) 

Household  Gods.  Domestic  pets, 
and  all  those  things  which  helj)  to  endear 
home.  The  Romans  had  household  gods 
called  pc-na'-tes,  who  were  supposed  to 
preside  over  their  firivate  dwellings.  Of 
these  pe-na'-tes  some  were  called  la' res, 
the  special  f/oiii  or  (fucpis  of  the  family. 
One  was  Vest'a,  whose  office  was  to  pre- 
serve domestic  unity.  Jupiter  and  Juno 
were  also  among  the  pe-na'-tes,    The 


modom  use  of   the  tenn  is  a  playful 
adtiptation. 

'■  IJcarin,'  a  nation  witli  all  its  household  pods 
iiit(]  exile."'  Liiniifdlow  :  Evangeline. 

Household  Troops.  Those  troops 
whose  special  duty  it  is  to  attend  the 
sovereign  and  gutinl  the  nietropoUs. 
They  consist  of  the  1st  and  2nd  Life- 
guards, the  Royal  Horseguards,  and 
the  three  regiments  of  Footguards 
called  the  Grenadier,  Coldstream,  and 
Scots  Fusilier  Guards. 

Housel.  To  give  or  receive  the  Eu- 
charist. (Anglo-Saxon,  husliaii,  to  give 
the  hii'scl  or  host.) 

"Children  were  christened,  and  men  honseled 
and  assoyled  thronph  all  the  land,  except  such 
a.s  were  in  the  hill  of  excommunicatiou  by  uame 
expressed." — JJoUnshed :  Chronicle. 

Houssain  {Pr'n/ce).  Brother  of  Prince 
Ahmed.  He  jiosscssed  a  ]iifce  of  carpet 
or  tajjcstry  of  such  wouderfid  power 
that  anyone  had  only  to  sit  upon  it,  and 
it  would  transport  him  in  a  moment  to 
any  place  to  which  he  desired  to  go. 

"  If  Prince  Honssain's  flying  tajiestry  or.Astol- 
jilio's  hiiipoK'ritf  had  been  shown,  he  wonid  have 
jud^'cil  thciu  bv  the  ordinary  niles.and  preferred 
a  wcll-hiuii,'  chariot. "-,s'(i-  WiilUr  Scott. 

Houyhnhnms  {irhiii'him.s).  A  race 
of  horses  endowed  with  reason,  who  bear 
rule  over  a  race  of  men.  Gulliver,  in 
his  Trarets,  tells  us  what  he  "saw" 
among  them.  {Swift.) 
"  >fiy.  would  kind  .love  my  organ  so  dispose 
To  hymn  harmonious  Houyhuhums  through  the 

nose, 
I'd  call   thee  Houlin'.mm,  that  high-sounding 

name  ; 
Thy  children's  nose.;  all  should  twang  the  same.'' 

I'ujie. 
How  Do  You  Do  ?    (See  Do.) 

How'ard.  A  philanthropist.  John 
Howard  is  immortalised  by  his  efforts  to 
improve  the  condition  of  prisoners.  "  He 
visited  all  Euroi^e,"  says  Burke,  "  not  to 
survey  the  sumijtuousuess  of  palaces  or 
the  stateliness  of  temples  ;  not  to  make 
accurate  measurements  of  the  remains  of 
ancient  grandeur,  nor  to  form  a  scale  of 
the  curiosity  of  modera  art ;  not  to  col- 
lect manuscrii^ts — but  to  dive  into  tlie 
depths  of  dungeons  ;  to  plunge  into  the 
iufection  of  hosj)itals ;  to  survey  the 
mansions  of  sorrow  and  pain  ;  to  take 
the  dimensions  of  misery,  depression, 
and  contempt ;  to  remember  the  for- 
gotten ;  to  attend  to  the  neglected  ;  to 
visit  the  for.saken,  and  to  compare  the 
distress  of  all  men  in  all  countries.  His 
plan  is  original,  and  it  is  as  full  of  genius 
as  it  is  of  humanity.  It  was  a  voyage 
of  discovery ;  a  circumnavigation  of 
charity."  (John  Howard,  1726-1790.) 
"The  radiant  path  that  Howard  trod  to  Heaven.'' 
Bloomfield :  Fiirmcfs  So}lt 


Ho"wdah. 


633 


Hudson 


The  fcmaU  Howard.  Mrs.  Elizabeth 
Fry  (1780-1844). 

All  the  blood  of  all  the  Howards.  All 
the  uobility  of  o'lu-  best  aristocracy.  The 
ducal  house  of  Norfolk  stauds  at  the 
head  of  the  English  peerage,  aud  is 
interwoveu  in  all  our  history. 

"  Wliat  criiild  ennoble  sots,  or  shivcs.  or  cowards? 
Alas  :  not  all  the  hliKui  of  all  tlie  Howards." 
I'ope:  Essay  on  Mun,  Ep.  iv.  line  216. 

V  What  will  "  all  the  blood  of  all  the 
Howards"  say  to  Mr.  Walter  Eye  who, 
iu  his  Historij  of  Norfolk  (1885),  tells  us 
that  "Howard" is  from  hog-ward,"  aud 
that  the  origiual  Howards  were  so  called 
from  theii-  avocation,  which  was  to  teud 
tlie  pigs. 

Howard.  Mr.  Bug,  late  of  Epsom 
(Surrey),  then  of  Wakefield  (Yorksliire), 
landlord  of  the  Swan  Tavern,  changed 
his  name  (June,  1862)  to  Norfolk  Howard. 

Howdah.  A  canopy,  or  seat  fixed  on 
the  back  of  an  elephant. 

"  Leailin;;  the  array,  three  stately  eleijhants 
niarrhed,  beariii'-,'  the  Woons  iu  gilded  howdahs 
ujider  f-'old  umbrellas."—./.  II'.  I'almer :  Lp  and 
JJuini  the  liriia-fid'li,  ehai).  .XX.  p.  lOD. 

How' die  (2  sj'l.).    A  midwife. 

Howitzers  are  guns  used  to  fire  build- 
ings, to  reach  troops  behind  hills  or 
parapets,  to  bound  their  shells  along 
lines  and  against  cavalry,  to  l)reach  mud 
walls  by  exploding  their  shells  in  them, 
etc.  Thej'  project  common  shells,  com- 
mon and  spherical  case-shot,  carcasses, 
and,  if  necessary,  roimd  shot.  In  a  mor- 
tar the  trunnions  are  at  the  end  ;  iu  how- 
itzers they  are  in  the  middle. 

"The  howitzer  was  taken  to  pieees,  and  carried 
liv  the  men  to  its  destination. "— 6'rartt ;  Personal 
ihinoiis,  .■liap,  xi.  p.  !.-.,■<. 

Howleglass  (2  syl.).  A  clever  rascal, 
the  hero  of  an  old  German  romance 
by  Tliomas  Mumer,  popular  in  the 
eiglitoentli  century. 

Hrimfaxi.     (See  Hoese.) 

Hub.  The  nave  of  a  wheel  ;  a  boss  ; 
also  a  skid.  (Welsh,  hod,  a  swelling,  a 
i)rotubei'ance ;  compare  also  a  hwb.) 
The  Americans  c^ill  Boston,  Massa- 
chusetts, "  Tlie  hub  [/;o,ss]  of  the  solar 
system." 

"  Boston  State-house  is  the  liuh  of  the  snl.ar 
svsteui."  — //«?»!««.•  Autocrat  of  the  Ureakjast 
Table,  chap.  vi.  p.  143. 

"  Calcutta  swashers  as  if  it  were  the  hub  of 
the  \m\\e\-e:'— Daily  Sews,  18s(i. 

Hu'bal.  An  Arab  idol  brought  from 
Bulka,  in  SjTia.  by  Amir  Ibu-Lohei, 
who  asserted  that  it  would  procure  rain 
when  wanted.  It  was  the  statue  of  a 
man  in  red  agate  ;  one  hand  being  lost, 
(1  golden  one  was  suppUed.     He  held  in 


his  hand  seven  arrows  without  wings  or 
feathers,  such  as  the  Arabians  use  iu 
divination.  This  idol  was  destroyed  in 
the  eighth  year  of  "  the  flight." 

Hub'bard  ( Old  Mother) .  The  famous 
dame  of  nursery  mythology,  who  went 
to  the  cupboard  to  fetch  her  poor  dog  a 
bone  ;  but  when  she  got  there  the  cup- 
board was  bare,  so  the  poor  dog  had 
none. 

Hubert  {h  silent),  in  Shakespeare's 
Kiiifi  John,  is  Hubert  de  Burgli,  Justice 
of  England,  created  Earl  of  Kent.  He 
died  124.3. 

>SY.  Hubert.  Patron  saint  of  hunts- 
men. He  was  son  of  Bcrtrand,  Duo 
d'Acquitaine,  and  cousm  of  Kiug  Pepin. 
Hubert  was  so  fond  of  the  chase  that  he 
neglected  his  religious  duties  for  his 
favourite  amusement,  till  one  day  a  stag 
bearing  a  crucifix  menaced  him  with 
eternal  perdition  unless  he  reforn^ed. 
Upon  this  the  merry  huntsman  entered 
a  cloister,  became  iu  time  Bishop  of 
Liege,  and  the  ajjostle  of  Ardennes  and 
Brabant.  Those  who  were  descended  of 
his  race  were  supiJosetl  to  possess  the 
power  of  curing  the  bite  of  mad  dogs. 

lit.  Hubert  in  Christian  art  is  repre- 
sented sometimes  as  a  bishop  with  a 
miniature  stag  resting  on  the  book  in  his 
hand,  and  sometimes  as  .i.  noble  luuitsmau 
kneeling  to  the  miraculous  crucifix  borne 
by  the  stag. 

Hu'dibras.  Said  to  be  a  caricature 
of  Sir  Samuel  Luke,  a  patron  of  Samuel 
Butler.  The  Grub  Street  Journal  (1731) 
maintains  it  was  Colonel  Rolle,  of 
Devonshire,  with  whom  the  poet  lodged 
for  some  time,  aud  adds  tliat  the  name 
is  derived  from  Hugh  de  Bras,  the 
patron  saint  of  the  county.  He  repre- 
sents the  Presbj-terian  party,  aud  his 
squire  the  Indeijendents. 

"  'Tis  suns  there  is  a  valiant  Mameluke . 
In  forefgn  laud  ycleped  [Sir  Samiol  Luke)." 
Butler:  HuUibras,  i.  1. 

Sir  Hudibras.  The  cavalier  of  Elissa 
of  Parsimony.  {Spenser  :  Faerie  Queciic, 
book,  ii.) 

Hudibrastic  Verse.  A  doggerel 
eiglit-syllable  rliyming  verse,  after  the 
style  of  Butler's  Hudibras. 

Hudson  {Sir  JeffreiJ).  The  famous 
dwarf,  at  one  time  page  to  Queen  Henri- 
etta Maria.  Sir  Walter  Scott  has  intro- 
duced him  in  his  Pereril  of  the  PcaJc, 
chiip.  xxxiv.  Vandyke  has  immortalised 
him  by  his  brush  :  and  his  clothes  ai-e 
said  to  be  preserved  in  Sir  Hans  Sloajie'g 
museum.     (1619-1678.) 


Hue  and  Cry 


634 


HuU 


V  The  person  slain  in  a  duel  by  this 
dwarf  was  the  Hon.  Mr.  Crofts. 

"We  fouffbt  ou  borseback— breaking  pround 
and  advancfng  liy  Bijinal  ;  and,  as  I  never  miss 
aim,  I  bad  tbe  niisfortime  to  kill  [my  advcrs-iry] 
at  tbe  fli-st  shot.:'— Sir  W.  Scott:  Peveril  of  the 
Peal:,  chap,  xxxiv. 

Hue  and  Cry.  A  phrase  used  in 
English  law  to  describe  a  body  of 
persons  joining  in  pursuit  of  a  felon 
or  suspected  tliief .  (French,  hiiee,  verb 
fiuer,  to  hoot  or  shout  after ;  Anglo- 
Saxon,  hui,  ho  I) 

Hug  the  Shore  (To).  In  the  case  of 
a  ship,  to  keep  as  clo.se  to  the  shore  as 
is  compatible  with  the  vessel's  safety, 
when  at  sea.     "  Server  la  tcrrc.'^ 

Hug  the  Wind  (To).  To  keep  a 
ship  close  hauled.     "  Scrrcr  le  vent.'''' 

Hugger  -  mugger.  The  primary 
meaning  is  clandestinely.  The  secondary 
meaning  is  disorderly,  in  a  slovenly 
manner.  To  hwigcr  is  to  lie  in  ambush, 
from  tlie  Danish  hu(j,  hmjcr^  hvgr/r'Dig, 
to  squat  on  the  ground  ;  mugger  is  the 
Danish  siii't;;,  clandestinely,  whence  our 
word  smuggle.  • 

The  king  in  Hamlet  says  of  Polo'- 
nius  :  "  We  have  done  but  greenly  in 
hugger-mugger  to  inter  him  " — i.r.  to 
smuggle  him  into  the  grave  clandestinely 
and  without  ceremony. 

Sir  T.  North,  in  his  riiitarch,  saj's  : 
"  Autonius  thought  that  his  body  should 
be  honourably  buried,  and  not  in  hugger- 
mugger  "  (clandestinely). 

tialph  says  : — 

"  While  I,  in  liugser-n  ugger  hii!, 
'  Have  noted  all  they  said  and  did." 

Butler  :  lliidibras,  iii.  .■). 

Under  the  secondary  idea  we  have  the 
following  expressions  : — Ife  /ires  in  a 
/iiiffr/er-iiiiii/(/er  sort  of  nay  ;  the  roo)ns 
ivcrc  all  hutj(jcr-nui(j(nr  (disorderlj-) . 

Huggins  and  Muggins.     Mr.  and 

Mrs.  Vulgarity,  of  Pretension  Hall. 

Hugh  Lloyd's  Pulpit  (Merionetlt- 
shire).  A  natural  production  of  stone. 
One  pile  resembles  the  Kilmarth  Rocks. 
There  is  a  platfonn  stone  with  a  back  in 
stone.     (Hugh  prou.  You.) 

Hugh  Perry.  An  English  perver- 
sion of  "Euper'ion,"  a  predecessor  of 
lucifer  matches  invented  by  Heurtner, 
who  opened  a  shop  in  the  Strand,  and 
advertised  his  invention  thus — 

"  To  nave  your  knuckles  time  and  trouble 
Use  Heurter's  Euper'ion." 

("Sfee  Prometheans,  Vesitvians.) 

Hugh  of  Lincoln.  It  is  said  that 
the  Jews  in  12.55  stole  tj.  boy  named 


Hugh,  whom  they  tortured  for  ten  days 
and  then  crucified.  Eighteen  of  the 
richest  Jews  of  Lincoln  were  hanged  for 
taking  part  in  this  affair,  and  the  boy 
was  buried  in  state.  This  is  the  subject 
of  The  I'rioress's  Talc  of  Chaucer, 
which  Wordsworth  has  modernised.  In 
Rymer's  Fo'dcra  arc  several  documents 
rekiting  to  this  event. 

Hugin  and  Mun'in  [in'iii-I  and 
ineiiiori/] .  The  two  ravens  that  sit  on  the 
shoulders  of  Odin  or  Alfader. 

"  Perhaps  the  nursery  saying, '  A  little  bird  told 
me  that,'  is  a  corruption  of  Hugo  and  Muniii,  and 
Bo  we  have  tbe  old  Northern  giiperslition  linger- 
ing among  us  without  our  being  aware  of  it." — 
Jiilin  Goddard:  Joyce  Dormer's  Story,  ii.  11.  (.See 
UlIiD.) 

Hu'go,  in  Jerusalem  Delivered,  Count 
of  Verm;uulois,  brother  of  Philippe  I.  of 
France,  leader  of  the  Franks.  He  died 
before  Godfrey  was  appointed  leader  of 
the  united  armies  (book  i.),  but  his 
spirit  was  seen  by  Godfrey  amongst  the 
angels  who  came  to  aid  in  taking  Jeru- 
salem (book  xviii.). 

Itiif/o,  natural  son  of  Azo,  Marquis 
of  Este,  who  fell  in  love  with  Parisi'na. 
his  father's  young  wife.  Azo  discovered 
the  intrigue,  and  condemned  Hugo  to  be 
beheaded.     {Byron  :  I'arisina.) 

Hu'gon  {King).  The  gi'cat  hobgoblin 
of  France. 

Huguenot  {U-g^ie-no).  Fir.st  applied 
to  the  Ktformed  Church  party  in  the 
Amboise  Plot  (I06O).  From  the  Germau 
eidgenosscH  (confederates) . 

Huguenot  I'ope  {La  pape  des  Hugue- 
nots). Philippe  de  Mornay,  the  great 
supporter  of  the  French  Protestants. 
(1549-1623.) 

Hul'da  [the  Beniguant'\.  Goddess  of 
marriage  and  fecundity,  who  sent  bride- 
grooms to  maidens  and  children  to  the 
married.     (German.)     {See  Berciita.) 

Hulda  is  making  Iicr  bed.  It  snows. 
{See  ahore.) 

Hulk.  An  old  ship  unfit  for  service. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  hute,  from  Mid.  Latin 
hulca,  connected  with  Greek  oAKa;  =  a 
ship  wliich  is  towed,  a  merchant  sliiji.) 

Hulking.  A  great  hulking  fellow. 
A  great  overgrown  one.  A  hulk  is  a 
big,  lubberly  fellow,  applied  to  Falstaff 
by  Shakespeare.  It  means  the  body  of 
an  old  ship.     {See  above.) 


HuU. 

'■  rrom  Hull,  Hell,  and  Halifax 
Good  Lord,  deliver  us." 

This  occurs  in  Taylor,  the  water  poet. 
Hull  is  not  the  town  so  called,  but  a 


Hull  Clieese 


C35 


Hume 


furious  river  in  Kingston,  very  dan- 
gerous. In  regard  to  Halifax,  the 
allusion  is  to  the  law  that  the  theft  of 
goods  to  the  value  of  13d.  shall  subject 
the  thief  to  execution  "  by  a  jyn." 

Hull  Cheese.  Strong  ale,  or  rather 
intoxicating  cake,  like  "tipsy  cake," 
thus  described  by  Taylor,  the  water- 
poet  :  "  It  is  much  like  a  loafe  out  of  a 
brewer's  basket ;  it  is  composed  of  two 
simples — mault  and  water,  .  .  .  and 
is  cousin-germane  to  the  mightiest  ale 
in  England.  (<SVe  vol.  ii.  of  Taylor''s 
Works.) 

HuU'abaloo.  Uproar.  Irish  pidla- 
lite,  a  coronach  or  crying  together  at 
funerals.       {tiee  Huely-buely.) 

"  All  this  tlie  poor  (iiiUl  crcathure  sot  up  such  a 
.imllaliie,  that  slie  hi'ouyht  the  seven  i  arislies 
al)i)Ut  her."— Dublin  ami  Lomio)tMii<jo2ine(hw\i;h' 
leagli),  Itsi'3. 

Hul'sean  Lectures.  Instituted  by 
the  Eev.  John  Hulse,  of  Cheshire,  in 
1777.  Every  year  some  four  or  six  ser- 
mons are  preached  at  Great  St.  Mary's, 
Cambridge,  by  Avhat  is  now  called  the 
Hulsean  Lecturer,  who,  till  18G0,  was 
entitled  the  Chrintinii  Advucatr.  Ori- 
ginally twenty  sermons  a  year  were 
preached  and  afterwards  prhited  under 
this  benefaction. 

Hum  and  Haw  {To).  To  hesitate  to 
give  a  positive  plain  answer  ;  to  hesitate 
in  making  a  speech.  To  introduce  liinii 
and  Jiaw  between  words  which  ought  to 
follow  each  other  freely. 

Hum'a  {The).  A  fabulous  Oriental 
bird  which  never  alights,  but  is  always 
on  the  wing.  It  is  said  that  every  head 
which  it  overshadows  will  wear  a  crown 
(lltchurdsoti).  The  splendid  little  bird 
suspended  over  the  throne  of  Tippoo 
Saib  at  Serin  gapatam  represented  this 
poetical  fancy. 

In  tlie  first  chapter  of  lYte  Autocrat  of  the  Break- 
fast Table  a  rertaiu  popular  lei'tnror  is  made  to 
(Icscrihe  himself,  in  allusion  to  his  many  wandv;-- 
ings,  to  this  hint :  "  Yes,  I  am  like  the  Huma,  the 
))iril  that  never  lights  ;  heini,'  always  in  the  cars, 
as  the  Huma  is  always  on  the  wing." 

Hu'man  Race  (A  soft).  Father  of 
the  huiiKin  race.     Adam. 

Human  Sacrifice.  A  custona  still 
subsisting  seems  to  jirove  that  the  Egyp- 
tians formerly  sacriticed  a  young  virgin 
to  the  god  of  the  Nile,  for  they  now  make 
a  statue  of  clay  in  sliape  of  a  girl,  which 
they  call  the  "  betrothed  bride,"  and 
throw  it  into  the  river.     (Sarari/.) 

Humanita'rians.  Those  who  be- 
lieve that  Jesus  Christ  was  only  man. 
The  disciples  of  St.  Simon  are  so  called 


also,  because  they  maintain  the  perfec- 
tibility of  human  natm'e  without  the 
aid  of  grace. 

Humanities  or  Humanity  Studies. 

Grammar,  rhetoric,  and  2:)oetry,  with 
Greek  and  Latin  {/itcrcc  hniiiaiiiorcn)  ;  in 
contradistiuction  to  divinity  (jitene 
dirina:). 

"The  humanities  .  .  .  is  used  to  designate  those 
Btudeswhich  are  considered  the  most  specially 
adapted  for  trainini;  .  .  .  true  humanity  in  every 
man."— 'JVt /it/i  ;  Uii  the  Study  of  Words,  Lecture 
iii.  p.  CO. 

Humbcr.  Chief  of  the  Huns,  de- 
feated by  Locrin,  King  of  England,  and 
drowned  in  the  river  Abus,  ever  since 
called  the  Humber.     {Geoffrey  of  Jlon- 

moath  :  Chronicles.) 

'•  Their  chieftain  Hnmlier  named  was  aright 
Unto  the  mighty  streame  him  to  helake, 
Where  Uo  an  cud  o(  hat  tall  and  of  life  did  make." 
Spensc)' :  Fiifiic  (Juetiie,  ii.  lo. 

Humble  Bee.  A  corruption  of  the 
German  Ininuiicl  lm\  the  buzzing  bee. 
Sometimes  called  the  Dumble-dor.  Also 
Bumble-bee,  from  its  booming  di'one. 

Humble  Cow  {A).  A  cow  without 
horns. 

"'That,'  said  .lohu  with  a  broad  grin,  was 
Grizzel  clfasiiig  the  humble  cow  out  of  the  close." 
—air  W.  tScott:  Guy  iJanneriug,  chap.  ix. 

Humble  Pie.  To  eat  hiuiibk pic.  To 
come  down  from  a  position  you  have 
assumed,  to  be  obliged  to  take  "  a  lower 
room."  "  Umbles  "  are  the  heart,  liver, 
and  entrails  of  the  deer,  the  huntsuum's 
perquisites.  When  the  lord  and  his 
household  dined  the  venison  pasty  was 
served  on  the  dais,  but  the  umbles  were 
made  into  a  jjie  for  the  huntsman  and 
his  fellows. 

N.B.  Pie  and  patty  are  both  diminu- 
tives of  pasty.  Pasty  and  patty  are 
limited  to  venison,  veal,  and  some  few 
other  meats  ;  pie  is  of  far  wider  signiti- 
catiou,  including  fruit,  mince,  etc. 

Hum 'bug.  A  correspondent  in  Notes 
and  Queries  (March  5th,  1892)  suggests 
as  the  fotis  et  orhjo  of  this  word  the 
Italian  Uomo  hue/iardo,  a  lying  man. 

*.*  To  liam  used  to  signify  "to  ap- 
plaud," "  to  pretend  admiration,"  hence 
"to  flatter,"  "to  cajole  for  an  end," 
"  to  deceive." 

"  He  tbreatened,  Init  behold  !  'twas  all  a  hum." 
Peter  Piiidar,  i.  436. 
-    "'Gentlemen,   this    humming    [expression    of 
applause]  is  not  at  all  becoming  the  gravity  of 
this  court-"— State  Trials  (16ai). 

Hume  {David),  the  historian,  takes 
the  lead  among  modern  philosophical 
sceptics.  His  great  argument  is  this : 
It  is  more  likely  that  testimony  should 


Humming  Ale 


636 


Hundred-handed 


be  false  than   that   miracles  should  be 
true.     (1711-1776.) 

Humming  Ale.  Strong  liquor  that 
froths  well,  and  causes  a  humming  in 
the  head  of  tlie  drinker. 

Hummums  (in  Covent  Garden).  So 
called  from  the  Persian  humoun  (a 
sweating  or  Turkish  bath). 

Hu'mour.  As  ffood  luniiour,  ill  or  had 
/niinoKr,  etc.  According  to  an  ancient 
theory,  there  are  four  principul  humours 
in  the  body :  phlegm,  blood,  choler,  and 
black  bile.  As  any  one  of  these  pre- 
dominates it  determines  the  temper  of 
the  mind  and  body ;  hence  the  exjiressions 
sanguine,  choleric,  phlegmatic,  and  mel- 
ancholic humours.  A  j  ust  balance  made  a 
good  compound  called  ''  good  humour ;  " 
a  prejjonderance  of  any  one  of  the  fom* 
made  a  bad  compound  called  an  ill  or 
evil  humour.  (See  £01  Jonson :  Evcri/ 
Mail  Out  of  His  Humour  (Prologue). 

Humpback  {The). 
Gero'nimo  Amelunglii,  //  Goho  di  Tisa 
(sixteenth  century). 
Andre'a  Sola'ri,  the  Italian  painter, 

Del  Oohbo  (1470-1527). 

Humphrey  {Master).  The  imaginary 
collector  of  the  tales  in  Master  lluin- 
phrci/s  Clork,  by  Charles  Dickens. 

Tlie  (jood  Uiike  Humphrey,  {ib'ee  Good 
Duke  Humphrey.) 

I'o  dine  with  Dulce  Humphrey.     To 

have  no  dinner  to  go  to.     Humphrej', 

Duke  of  Gloucester,  son  of  Henry  IV. , 

was  renowned  for  his  hospitality.     At 

death  it  was  reported  that  a  monument 

would  be  erected  to  him  in  St.  Paul's, 

but  his  body  was  interred  at  St.  Albans. 

When  the  jiromenaders  left  for  dinner, 

the  poor  stay-behinds  who  had  no  dinner 

used  to  say  to  the  gay  sparks  who  asked 

if  they  wore    going,   that  they  would 

stay   a  little  longer  and  look  for  the 

monument  of  the  "  good  duke." 

To  dine  with  Duke  Humiibrey  in  Fowl's  Walk. 

V  A  similar  locution  is  To  sup  with 

Sir  Thomas  Grcsham.  The  Exchange  built 

by  Sir  Thomas  being  a  common  lounge. 

"  Tlimii,'li  little  coin  tliy  imrseloss  i>ofket  line, 

Yet  with  '-'i-eat  e(iiiiiinii.v  tlioii  ai't  taken  uii; 

For  often  wit  li  Duke  Huiiiplirey  tliou  dost  dine, 

And  often  wit  li  Sir  Tliumas  Gresham  sup." 
JIaymaii :  (JnodlibU  iKpigram  on  a  Loafer),  1628. 

Humpty  Dumpty.  An  egg,  a  little 
deformed  dwarf.  Dumpty  is  a  con-up- 
tion  of  dumpy  (short  and  thick).  A 
dump  is  a  piece  of  lead  used  in  chuck- 
farthing.  Humpty  is  having  a  hmnp  or 
hunch.  The  two  mean  short,  thick,  and 
round-sl)ouldere(i. 


Hunchback.  Styled  My  Lord. 
Grose  says  this  was  done  in  the  reign  of 
Richard  III.,  when  many  defomied  men 
were  made  peers  ;  but  probably  the  word 
is  the  Greek  lordos  (crooked) . 

Hundred.  Hero  of  the  hundred  fights 
or  liattles. 

Lord  Nelson  (1758-1805). 

Conn,  a  celebrated  Irish  hero,  is  so 
called  by  O'Gnive,  the  bard  of  O'Niel : 
"  Conn,  of  the  hundred  fights,  sleejjs  iu 
thy  grass-grown  tomb." 

Hundred.  A  county  division  men- 
tioned iu  Domesdaj^  Book,  and  supposed 
to  embrace  ten  tithings  for  military  and 
constabulary  purposes.  If  a  crime  was 
committed  (such  as  robbery,  maiming 
cattle,  stack-burning,  etc.),  these  sure- 
ties were  bound  to  make  it  good,  or  bring 
the  offender  to  justice. 

Northumberland,  Cumberland,  West- 
moreland, and  Durham  are  divided  into 
"wards"  {q.r.). 

Yorkshire,  Lincolnshire,  and  Notts, 
into  "  wajicntakes  "  {q.r.).  Yorkshire 
has  also  a  special  division,  called 
"  ridings  "  {q.r.). 

Kent  is  divided  into  five  lathes,  with 
subordinate  hundreds.     {See  Lathes.) 

Sussex  is  divided  into  six  rapes  (1  syl.), 
with  subordinate  hundreds.  {See  Eapes.) 

Hundred  Days.  The  days  between 
March  20,  1815,  when  Napoleon  reached 
the  Tuileries,  after  his  escape  from  Elba, 
and  June  28,  the  date  of  the  second  re- 
storation of  Louis  XVIII.  These  hun- 
dred days  were  noted  for  five  things : 

The  additional  Act  to  the  constitutions  of  the 

empire,  April  22; 
The  Coalition ; 
Tlie  Champ  de  Mai,  June  1 ; 
The  battle  of  Waterloo,  June  18 ; 
The  second  abdication  of  Napoleon  in  favour  of 

bis  son,  June  22. 

He  left  Elba  February  26  ;  landed  at 
Cannes  March  1,  and  at  the  Tuileries 
March  20.  He  signed  his  abdication 
June  22,  and  abdicated  June  28. 

The  address  of  the  Count  de  Chanibord,  the 
jirefect,  begins  thus:  "A  hundred  days,  sire, 
have  elapsed  since  the  fatal  moment  when  your 
Majesty  was  forced  to  quit  your  cajiital  in  the 
niidst  of  te;irs."    This  is  the  origin  of  the  phrase. 

Hundred-eyed  {The).  Argus,  in 
Greek  and  Latin  fable.  Juno  api^ointed 
him  guardian  of  lo  [the  cow],  but 
Jupiter  caused  hini  to  be  put  to  death ; 
whereupon  Juno  transplanted  his  eyes 
into  the  tail  of  her  peacock. 

Hundred-handed  {TJie).  Three  of 
the  sons  of  UrSuus  were  so  called,  viz. 
^gseonor  Briareus[i?)'i'-fl'->V(re],Kottos, 
and  Gyges  or  Gyes.     Called  ju  Greek 


Hundred  MileS 


637 


Huntei? 


Hekatogcheiros  [liek'-  ha  -  ton  -  ki'ros'] . 
After  the  war  between  Zeus  and  the 
Titans,  when  the  latter  were  overcome 
and  hurled  into  Tartarus,  the  Hundred- 
handed  ones  were  set  to  keep  watch  and 
wai'd  over  them.     {See  Giants.) 

V  Sometimes  the  three-headed  Cer- 
berus is  so  called,  because  the  necks  were 
covered  with  snakes  instead  of  hair. 

Hundred  Miles  (A).  Not  a  hioidrcd 
miles  iiff.  An  indirect  way  of  saying  in 
this  very  neighbourhood,  or  very  si5ot. 
The  phrase  is  employed  when  it  would 
be  indiscreet  or  dangerous  to  refer  more 
directly  to  the  person  or  place  hinted  at ; 
as,  "Xot  a  hundred  miles  off,  there 
is  .  .  ." 

Hundred  Years'  War  {The).  The 
struggle  between  France  and  England, 
beginning  in  tlie  reign  of  Edward  III., 
lijyy,  and  ending  in  that  of  Henry  VI., 
1453. 

"  Sons  lea  regnes  de  Philippe  VI.  (de  Valois),  de 
Jean  TI.,  de  Charles  v.,  VI.,et  VII.,  en  France.'— 
Boailitt:  llictiuiiiKtire  d'Histuire,  p.  .3i7,  col.  '2. 

Hungarian.  One  half-starved ;  in- 
tended as  a  jjun  on  the  word  luDujer  (a 
diunerless  fop) . 

Hun'gary  Water.  Made  of  rose- 
mary, sage,  and  spices  ;  so  called  because 
the  receipt  was  given  by  a  hermit  to  the 
Queen  of  Hungary-. 

Hunger  seasons  Food. 

Unglixh : — 

"  Hunger  is  the  best  sauce." 
"  Hunger  is  good  kitchen  meat." 
Frciieh  : — 

"  II  n'y  a  sauce  que  d'appetit." 
"L'appetit  assaisonne  tout." 
Latin  : — 

"  Optimum     condimentum     fames." 

{Soereites.) 
"  Optimum     tibi     condimentum     est 

fames,  potionis  sitis."    {Cieero.) 
"  Manet  hodieque  vulgo  tritum  pro- 
verbium  :  Famem  efficere  ut  crudaj 
etiam  fabas  saccharium  sapiaut." 
{Emsmus.) 
Italian  : — 

•'La  farne  e  il  miglior  intingolo." 
"  Appetite  non  vuol  salsa." 
The  eoutrary  :  — 
"The    full    soul    loatheth  a  honey- 
comb."   (Prov.  xxvii.  7.) 
"  It  must  be  a  delicate  dish  to  tempt 
the  o'ergorged  apjjetite." 

(Southey.') 
"  He  who  is  not  hungry  is  a  fastidious 

eater."    {Spanish.) 
"  Plenty  makes  dainty. " 


Hungr  {Ji anger).  The  dish  out  of 
which  the  goddess  Hel  {q.v.)  was  wont 
to  feed. 

Hungry. 

Hungry  as  a  dog.  In  Latin,  "  Rahidus 
fame,  ceu  canis.'^ 

Jlitngry  as  a  hank. 

Hungry  as  a  hunter. 

Hungry  as  a  kite.  In  Latin,  Milvinam 
appententiam  halerc.^^    (I'lantus.) 

Hungry  as  a  wolf.  In  French,  "Aroir 
line  faim  de  Imp.''''  Another  French 
plu-ase  is  '■^ Avoir  u)t  faim  de  diable.'" 

Hungry  Dogs.  Hungry  doys  nill 
cat  dirty  puddings. 

"To  the  liuugry  soul  every  bitter 
thing  is  sweet."  (Prov.  xxvii.  7.) 

"  When  bread  is  wanting  oaten  cakes 
are  excellent." 
Latin  : — • 

"  Jejunus    raro    stomachus    vulgaria 
temnit."     (Horaee.) 
French  : — 

"A  la  faim  il  n'y  a  point  de  mauvais 
pain." 

"  A  ventre  affame  tout  est  bon." 

"  Ventre  affame  n'a  point  d'oreilles." 
Italian  : — 

"  L'asino  clu  a  fame  mangia  d'ogni 
strame." 
German : — ■ 

"  Wem  kase  und  brod  uicht  schraeckt, 
der  ist  nicht  hungrig." 

Hunia'des.   Hunniades,  or  Huny- 

ady  (4  syl.).  One  of  the  greatest  captains 
of  the  fourteenth  century.  The  Turks 
so  much  feared  him  that  they  used  his 
name  for  scaring  children.  (1400-1456.) 
{See  Bogie.) 

"The  Turks  employed  this  name  to  friirbte'i 
tlieir  pervevse  cliildren.  Hi'  wa.s  corni|itl.v  de- 
nominated'Jancns  Lain.'"— ff/Wwu;  DccUni  and 
taU  of  the  Roman  Empire,  xii.  106. 

Hunks.  An  old.  hunks.  A  screw,  a 
hard,  selfish,  mean  fellow.  (Icelandic, 
hunskur,  sordid.) 

Hunt.  Like  Hunfs  dog,  he  ironld 
neither  go  to  chnreh  nor  stay  at  home. 
One  Hunt,  a  labouring  man  in  Shrop- 
sliii-e,  kept  a  mastiff,  which,  on  being 
shut  up  while  his  master  went  to  church, 
howled  and  barked  so  terribly  as  to 
disturb  the  whole  congregation  ;  where- 
upon Hunt  thought  he  would  take  his 
Lycisca  with  him  the  next  Sunday,  but 
on  reaching  the  churchyard  the  dog 
positively  refused  to  enter.  The  proverb 
is  applied  to  a  tricky,  self-willed  person, 
who  will  neither  be  led  or  driven. 

Hunter.  3[r.  and  Mrs.  leo  Hunter. 
Two  lion  hunters,  or  persons  who  hunt 


Hunter's   Moon 


638 


Hurlo-Thrurabo 


up  all  the  celebrities  of  London  to  p-ace 
their  parties.  {Dickens  :  Fichuick 
Tapers. ) 

The  miglity  hunter.  Nimrod  is  so  called 
(Gen.  X.  9).  The  meaning  seems  to  be 
a  conqueror.  Jeremiah  says,  "  I  [the 
Lord]  will  send  for  many  hunters  [war- 
riorsT,  and  they  shall  hunt  [chase]  them 
[the  Jews]  from  every  mountain  .  .  .  and 
out  of  the  holes  of  the  rocks  "  (xvi.  IG). 
••  Proiul  Nimrod  first  the  Moody  cliasc?  IjCK^n— 
A  niiijbty  liiinter,  aud  his  \\wy  was  man." 

Popo:  Windsor. 

Hunter's  Moon  (The).  The  month 
or  moon  following  the  "harvest  moon" 
{(/.v.).  Hunting  does  not  begin  until 
after  harvest. 

Hunters   and  Runners   of  classic 

renown : 

AcAsTos,  wlio  took  iiartin  the  famous  Calydonian 
hunt  (a  wild  hoar). 

A(T.f:c)S,  thi>  fainous  liuntsman  who  was  trans- 
fonnod  liy  Dianaintoa  stag,  hecause.he  chanced 
to  seo  her  l>athiiiB. 

Adonis,  heloved  liy  Venus,  slain  hy  a  wild  boar 
while  huiitiiiif. 

ADitASTOs,  who  was  saved  at  the  sie»e  of  Thehes 
tiy  the  speed  of  his  horse  Arion,  jjiveu  him  by 
Hercules. 

Atai.anta,  who  promised  to  marry  the  man  wlio 
could  outstrip  her  In  ruMning. 

CAMti.r.A,  the  swiftest-footed  of  all  the  compa- 
nions of  Diana. 

Ladas,  tlie  swiftest-footed  of  all  the  runners  of 
Alexander  the  Great, 

JlKLEA'ciKit,  who  took  part  in  the  great  Calydo- 
nian boar-hunt. 

Oiu'ox,  the  (fieat  and  famous  lunter,  chansred 
into  the  Constellation,  so  conspicuous  in  No- 
vember. 

PiiEiDii'PiDEs,  who  ran  1.T)  miles  in  two  day*. 

Hunting  of  the  Hare.  A  comic 
romance,  jniblished  in  Weber's  collection. 
A  yeoman  informs  the  inhabitants  of  a 
village  that  he  has  seen  a  hare,  and  invites 
them  to  join  him  in  hunting  it.  They 
attend  with  their  curs  and  mastiffs,  pugs 
and  house-dogs,  and  the  fun  turns  on  the 
truly  unsportsmanlike  manner  of  giving 
puss  the  chase. 

Hunting  the  Gowk.  {See  April 
Fool.) 

Hunting  the  Snark.  A  child's  tale 
by  "Lewis  Carroll,"  a  pseudonjTn 
adopted  by  C.  Lutwidge  Dodgson, 
author  of  AUce''s  Adventures  in  Wonder- 
land, with  its  continuation.  Through  the 
Looking-glass,  etc.     {See  Snaek.) 

Hunting  two  Hares.  He  irho  hunts 
two  hares  leaves  one  and  loses  the  other. 
No  one  can  do  well  or  properly  two 
things  at  once.  "No  man  can  serve 
two  masters," 
French  : — 

"  Poursuis  deux  lievres,  et  les  man- 
ques  "  {La  Fontaine). 

"  On  ne  peut  tirer  a  deux  cibles."" 


Latin  : — 

"  Duos  qui  sequitur  lepores,  neutrum 

capit." 
"  Simul  sorbere  ac  flare  non  possum." 

'■  Like  a  man  to  double  business  bound, 
I  stand  in  pause  where  I  sliall  flrst  br^'in, 
And  hoth  uotflect." 

Sliukespenre :  Hamlet,  iii..1. 

Huntingdon  (called  bj-  the  Saxons 

Iluiitantnn,  and  in  Doomsday  Hunter's 
dune)  api)eurs  to  have  derived  its  name 
from  its  situation  in  a  tract  of  country 
which  was  anciently  an  extensive  forest 
abounding  with  deer,  and  well  suited  for 
the  ])urposcs  of  the  chase. 

Huntingdon  Sturgeon  {A).  An 
ass's  foal.  I'cpys,  in  his  IHari/,  tells  us 
that  during  a  high  flood  between  the 
meadows  of  Huntingdon  and  Godman- 
chester  something  was  seen  floating  on 
the  water,  which  the  Huntingdonians 
insisted  was  a  sturgeon,  but,  being  res- 
cued, it  jiroved  to  be  a  young  donkey. 

Huon  de  Bordeaux  encounters  in 
Syria  an  old  follower  of  the  family  named 
Gerasmcs  (2  syl.),  whom  he  asks  the  way 
to  Babylon.  Gerasmes  told  him  the 
shortest  and  best  way  was  through  a 
wood  sixteen  leagues  long,  and  full  of 
fairies ;  that  few  could  go  that  way 
because  King  O'beron  was  sure  to  en- 
coimtcr  them,  and  whoever  spoke  to  this 
fay  was  lost  for  ever.  If  a  traveller,  on 
the  other  hand,  refused  to  answer  him, 
he  raised  a  most  horrible  storm  of  wind 
and  rain,  and  made  the  forest  seem  one 
great  river.  "  But, "  says  the  vassal,  ' '  the 
river  is  a  mere  delusion,  through  which 
anyone  can  wade  without  wetting  the 
soles  of  his  shoes."  Huon  for  a  time 
followed  the  advice  of  Gerasmes,  but 
afterwards  addressed  Oberou,  who  told 
him  the  history  of  his  birth.  They  became 
gi-eat  friends,  and  when  Oberou  went  to 
Paradise  he  left  Huon  his  successor  as 
lord  and  king  of  Mommur.  He  married 
Esclairmond,  and  was  crowned  "King 
of  all  Faerie."  {Huon  de  Bordeaux,  a 
romance). 

Hurdle  Race  {A).  A  race  in  which 
the  runners  have  to  leap  over  three  or 
more  hurdles,  fixed  in  the  ground  at 
unequal  distances. 

Hurdy-gurdy.  A  stringed  instru- 
ment of  music,  like  a  rude  violin  ;  the 
notes  of  which  are  produced  by  the  fric- 
tion of  a  wheel. 

Hurlo-Thrumbo.  A  ridiculous  bur- 
lesque, which  in  1730  had  an  extra- 
ordinary run  at  the  Haymarket  theatre. 
So  great  was  its  popularity  that  a  club 


Hurly-burly 


639 


Hussites 


called  "The  Hurlo-Thrumbo  Society" 
was  formed.  The  author  was  Samuel 
Johnson,  a  half-mad  dancing  master, 
who  put  this  motto  on  the  title-page 
when  the  burlesque  was  printed  :  — 

'•  Ye  sons  of  Are,  read  my  Ilurlo-Thrumbo, 
Turn  it  i)etwiit  your  Ilnwer  and  your  tliumho, 
And    Iieins    quite    undone,   be    quitu    struct 
duintx)." 

Hurly-burly.  Uproar,  tumult,  es- 
pecially of  T)attle.  A  reduplication  of 
liuvhf.  ]{iirli(-berln  is  the  French  equi- 
valent, evidently  connected  with  hinier, 
to  howl  or  yell.     {Sec  Hullabaloo.) 

V  In  the  Garden  of  Eloquence  (1577) 
the  word  is  given  as  a  specimen  of 
onom'atopoe'ia. 

"  When  tlio  liurly-lmrly's  dono, 
When  the  liattle's  lost  and  won." 

The  Witclius,  in  J/<ifi/rf/i   i.l. 

Hurrah',  the  Hebrew  y>-\ri-  Our 
"Old  Hundredth  Psalm"  begins  with 
"  Shout  joyfully  [huiTah]  to  Jehovah  !  " 
The  word  is  also  of  not  uncommon 
occurrence  iri  other  psalms.  See  Notes 
and  Queries,  October  16th,  1880.  (Nor- 
wegian and  Danish,  hurra  !)  [See 
Huzza.  ) 

V  The  Norman  battle-cry  was  "Ha 
Eollol  "  or  "Ha  Eou  !"  (French,  hitzzer, 
to  shout  aloud ;  Kussian,  hoera  and 
hoezce.) 

"The  Saxon  cry  of  'Out!  Out,  Holy  Crosse  I' 
rose  liii'h  iihove  the  Xornian  sound  of  'Ha  Uou  ! 
Ha  Kou,  Notre  D3,\\,e'."—Lord  Lijtton:  Harold, 
Ijook  xii.  chap.  8. 

V  Wace  {Chronicle)  tells  us  that  Tiir 
aie  (Thor  aid)  was  the  battle  cry  of  the 
Northmen. 

Hurricane  (3  syl.).  A  large  private 
party  or  rout ;  so  called  from  its  hurry, 
bustle  and  noise.     (6'feDEUM.) 

Hurry.  The  Mahouts  cheer  on  their 
elephants  by  repeating  ur-re,  the  Arabs 
their  camels  by  shouting  ar-  re,  the  French 
their  hounds  by  shouts  of  hare,  the  Ger- 
mans their  horses  by  the  word  hurs,  the 
herdsmen  of  Ireland  their  cattle  by  shout- 
ing hurrish.  (Welsh,  f/yru,  to  drive  ; 
Armenian,  haura,  to  hasten ;  Latin, 
curro,  to  run  ;  etc.) 

BonH  hurry,  Hopkins.  A  satirical  re- 
proof to  those  who  are  not  prompt  in 
their  payment.s.  It  is  said  that  one 
Hopkins,  of  Kentucky,  gave  his  creditor 
a  promissory  note  on  which  was  this 
memorandum,  "  The  said  Hopkhis  is  not 
to  be  hurried  in  paying  the  above." 

Hurry  -  skurry.  Another  ricochet 
word  with  which  our  language  abounds. 
It  means  a  confused  haste,  or  rather, 
haste  without  waiting  for  the  due 
ordei-iiig  of  things  ;  pell-mell. 


Hus'band  is  the  house  farmer.  Bondc 
is  Norwegian  for  a  "farmer,"  hence 
bond'c-liy  (a  village  where  farmej's  dwell) ; 
andA«smeans  ''house."  Hus-band-man 
is  the  man-of-the-house  farmer.  The 
husband,  therefore,  is  the  master  farmer, 
and  the  husband-man  the  servant  or 
labourer.  "Husbandry"  is  the  occu- 
pation of  a  farmer  or  husband ;  and  a 
bondman  or  bondslave  has  no  connection 
with  boinl  =  fetters,  or  the  verb  to  bind. 
It  means  simply  a  cultivator  of  the  soil. 
{See  ViLLEix.)  Old  Tusser  was  in  error 
when  he  derived  the  word  from  ' '  house- 
band,"  as  in  the  following  distich  : — 

"  The  name  of  the  husband,  what  is  it  to  say  ? 
Of  Wife  and  of  Aoiisp-hold  the   bund  and  the 
stay." 

Fire  Hundred  Points  of  Good  Uimbandry. 

Husband's  Boat  {The).  The  boat 
which  leaves  London  on  Saturday,  and 
takes  to  Margate  tliose  fathers  of  fami- 
lies who  live  in  that  ueighboiu'hood 
during  the  summer  months. 

"I  shall  never  forget  tho  evenint?  wlien  we 
went  down  to  tlie jetty  to  seethe  Husbands'  boat, 
c  hie  in."~T)ie  Mistletoe  Boiijli. 

Husband's  Tea.    Very  weak  tea. 

Hush-money.  Money  given  to  a 
person  who  knows  a  secret  to  keep  him 
from  mentioning  it.  A  bribe  for  silence 
or  ' '  hu.shing  "  a  matter  up. 

Hush'ai  (2  syl.),  in  Dry  den's  satire 
of  Absalom  and  Aehitophel,  is  Hyde, 
Earl  of  Kochester.  Hushai  was  David's 
friend,  who  counteracted  the  counsels  of 
Achitojjhel,  and  caused  the  plot  of  Absa- 
lom to  miscarrj' ;  so  Rochester  defeated 
the  schemes  of  Shaftesbury,  and  brought 
to  nought  the  rebellion  of  the  Duke  of 
Monmouth. 

N.B.  This  was  not  John  Wilmot, 
Earl  of  Rochester,  the  wit. 

Hussars.  Matthias  Corvinus  com- 
pelled every  twenty  families  to  provide 
him  with  one  horse-soldier  free  of  all 
charge.  ThLs  was  in  14.)8,  and  in  con- 
firmation of  this  story  we  are  told  that 
huss  is  an  Hungarian  word  meaning 
"  twenty,"  and  that  ar  means  "pay." 

V  When  Matthias  Corvinus  succeeded 
to  the  crown  of  Hungary  (1458),  Mo- 
hammed III.  and  Frederick  III.  con- 
spired to  dethrone  "the  boy  king"; 
but  Matthias  enrolled  an  army  of  Hus- 
sars, and  was  able  to  defy  his  enemies. 

"Item  si  contigerit  ut  aliqui  ijredones  aut 
huzarii  Hungari  aliiiuam  rapinam  ....  intule- 
rint  .  .  .  ."—A  clause  in  a  truce  betu:i:en  the  Turks 
and  George  Brankovich,  May  -Ast,  14-19. 

Hus'sites  (2  syl.).  Followers  of  John 
Huss,  the   Bohemian   refoi-mer,  in   the 


Hussy 


C40 


HyksoS 


fourteenth    century.       {See  Betiilem- 

ENITES.) 

Hussy.  A  little  IniK.ii/.  A  word  of 
slight  contempt,  though  in  some  counties 
it  seems  to  mean  simply  f/ir/,  as  "  Come 
hither,  hussy."  Of  course,  the  word  is 
a  corruption  of  hoiiscicifc  or  /tKssif.  In 
Swedish  hustrit  means  woman  in  general. 
It  is  rather  remarkable  that  mother  in 
Norfolk  has  given  rise  to  a  similar  sort 
of  word,  morther,  as  "  Come  hither, 
morther" — i.e.  girl.  Neither  hussy  nor 
morther  is  applied  to  married  women. 
In  Norfolk  they  also  .^ay  mor  for  a 
femalr,  and  bor  for  the  other  sex.  Muer 
is  Dutcli  for  woman  in  general,  and  boer 
for  peasant,  whence  our  boor. 

Hus'terloe.  A  wood  in  Flanders, 
where  Ileynard  declared  his  vast  trea- 
sures were  concealed.  {Jtei/iiard  tlie 
Fo.r.) 

Hustings.  House  -  things  or  city 
courts.  Loudon  has  still  its  eoiirt  of 
Jliistnn/s  in  Guildhall,  in  which  are 
elected  the  lord  mayor,  the  aldermen, 
and  city  members.  The  hustings  of 
elections  are  so  called  because,  like  the 
court  of  Hustings,  they  are  the  places 
of  elective  assemblies.  (Anglo-Saxon, 
hustuig,  a  place  of  council.) 

Hutchinso'nians.  Followers  of 
Anne  Hutchinson,  who  retired  to  Rhode 
Island.  Anne  and  fifteen  of  lier  chil- 
dren were  subsequently  murdered  by 
the  Indians  (died  1G43). 

Hu'tin.  Louis  le  Ifiitiii.  Louis  X. 
Mazerai  saj's  he  received  the  name 
because  he  was  tongue-doughty.  The 
hiitiiiet  was  a  mallet  used  by  coopers 
which  made  great  noise,  but  did  not 
give  severe  blow? ;  as  we  should  say, 
the  barker  or  barking  dog.  It  is  my 
belief  that  he  was  so  named  because 
he  was  sent  by  his  father  against  the 
"  Hutins,"  a  seditious  people  of  Navarre 
and  Lyons.     (1289,  1314-1316.)        i 

Hutkin.  A  cover  for  a  sore  finger, 
made  by  cutting  off  the  finger  of  an  old 
glove.  The  word  hut  in  this  instance  is 
from  the  Gennan  huten  (to  guard  or  pro- 
tect). It  is  employed  in  the  German 
i\o\in  fill f/er-h lit  (a  thimble  to  protect  the 
finger),  and  in  the  word  hitth  or  Iiiit. 

{See  HODEKEN.) 

Huzza!  (Old  French,  hiizzer,  "to 
shout  aloud;"  German,    hussah  /     {See 

HUERAH.) 

Huzzy.    {Src  Hussy.) 
Hvergelmcr.    A  boilding  cauldron 
in    Niflhoim,     vJie'iiiie     issues     twelve 


poisonous  springs,  which  generate  ice, 
snow,   wind,    and  rain.     {Seaudiiiavian 

mijthulurjij.) 

Hyacinth,  according  to  Grecian 
fable,  was  the  son  of  Ajnyclas,  a  Spartan 
king.  The  lad  was  beloved  by  Apollo 
and  Zephyr,  and  as  he  preferred  tho 
sun-god.  Zephyr  drove  Apollo's  quoit  at 
his  head,  and  killed  him.  The  blood 
became  a  flower,  and  the  petals  are 
inscribed  with  the  boy"s  name.  ( Jlrr/il  : 
Eelogiie.s,  iii.  106.) 

■'  TliP  liysK-intli  Ijewiiiys  tlie  (lolrfiil  '  A  1,' 
And  <'iills  llip  trihiite  nf  Aiiollo's  si^'li. 
Still  nil  its  bloom  tlic  inouriifiil  flower  retains 
The  lovely  bliio  tliat  dyed  tlie  striplins's  veins.' 
CuiiKieux :  Liisiiul,  ix. 

Hy'ades  (3  syl.).  Seven  nymplii 
placed  among  the  stars,  in  the  constella- 
tion Taurus,  which  threaten  rain  when 
they  rise  with  the  sun.  The  fable  is 
that  they  wept  the  death  of  their  brother 
Hyas  so  bitterly,  that  Zeus  (1  syl.),  out 
of  compassion,  took  them  to  heaven, 
and  placed  them  in  tlie  constellation 
Taurus.     (Greek,  h/ieiii,  to  rain.) 

Hybla.  A  mountain  in  Sicilj',  famous 
for  its  honey.     {See  Hymettus.) 

Hy'dra.    A  monster  of  the  Ler'nean 

marshes,  in  Ar'golis.  It  had  nine  heads, 
and  Hercules  was  sent  to  kill  it.  As  soon 
as  he  struck  off  one  of  its  heads,  two  shot 
up  in  its  place. 

Hydra-headed.  Having  as  many  heads 
as  the  hydra  {q.T.)  ;  a  difficulty  which 
goes  on  increasing  as  it  is  combated. 

Ili/dra-headed  multitude.  The  rabble, 
which  not  only  is  many-headed  numeri- 
cally, but  seems  to  grow  more  numerous 
the  more  it  is  attacked  and  resisted. 

Hyenas  were  worshipped  by  the  an- 
cient Egyptians.  Pliny  says  that  a  certain 
stone,  called  the  "hysenia,"  found  in  the 
eye  of  the  creature,  being  placed  under 
the  tongue,  imparts  the  gift  of  prophecy 
(xxxvii.  60). 

Hygei'a  (3  syl.).  Goddess  of  health 
and  the  daughter  of  .SE^culapios.  Her 
sj'mbol  was  a  serpent  diinking  fi'om  a 
euj)  in  her  hand. 

Hyksos.  A  tribe  of  Cuthites  (2  syl.), 
driven  out  of  Assyria  by  Ara'lius  and  the 
Shemites.  They  founded  in  Egypt  a 
dj-nasty  called  Hyksos  (shepherd  kings), 
a  title  assumed  by  all  the  Cuthite  chiefs. 
This  dynasty,  which  gave  Egypt  six  or 
eight  kings,  lasted  251)  years,  when  the 
whole  horde  was  driven  from  Egypt, 
and  retired  to  Palestine.  It  is  from 
these  refugees  that  the  lords  of  the 
Philistines  arose.  The  word  is  com- 
pounded of  hyk  (king)  and  sCs  (shepherd). 


Hylas 


641, 


Hypocrites'  Isle 


Hyl'as.  A  boy  beloved  by  Hercules, 
carried  oft'  by  the  nymphs  wliile  drawing 
water  from  a  foimtaiu  iu  Mj's'ia. 

Hylech  (in  Astrology).  That  planet, 
or  point  of  the  sky,  which  dominates  at 
man's  birth,  and  influences  his  whole 
life. 

Hymen.  God  of  marriage,  a'sort  of 
overgrown  Cupid.  His  symbols  are  a 
bridal- torch  and  veil  in  his  hand. 

Hy'mer.  The  giant  in  Celtic  mytho- 
logy who  took  Tlior  in  his  boat  when 
that  god  went  to  kill  the  serpent ;  for 
which  service  he  was  flung  by  the  ears 
into  the  sea.     {See  Giants.) 

Hymettus.  A  moimtain  iu  Attica, 
famous  for  its  honey.     [Sve  Hybla.) 

Hymn  Tunes. 

"The  Heavens  are  Telling."  (From 
Ilfiildi i''s  C) ca tioii.) 

"Marching  to  Glory."  The  tune  of 
March'iiHj  to  Georgia. 

"Onward,  Christian  Soldiers."  One 
of  IIai/dii\s  Si/inphonies. 

"  Lo  1  He  comes  with  clouds  descend- 
ing." The  tune  of  a  hornpipe  danced 
at  Saddler's  Wells  in  the  eighteenth 
century.     {Ilclmslen.) 

"  There  is  aHapj)y  Land."  An  Indian 
air. 

"  The  Land  of  the  Leal."  Scots  tvha 
hae  xri''  Wallace  bled. 

"  Brightest  and  best  of  the  Sons  of  the 
Morning."    3Iendelssokn''s  Lieder  No.  9. 

"Sweet  the  Moments."  The  Jirst 
sixteen  bars  of  II eet haven's  Fiano  Sonata, 
Op.  26. 

Hymnus  Eucharis'ticus.  Sung  as 
the  'clock  strikes  o  a.m.  by  Magdalen 
choir  on  the  summit  of  Wolsey's  Tower 
(Oxford)  on  May  morning  to  greet  the 
rising  sun.  Some  say  the  custom  dates 
from  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  ;  if  this 
overshoots  the  mark,  no  one  knows  for 
certainty  a  more  exact  period. 

"  Te  Deum  Patrem  collimis, 
Te  laiKlihns  proseiiuimur  ; 
Qui  corpus  cilioriticis, 
Coelesti  mentem  gratia." 

Uymnus  Euchnristicus. 

Hyperbo'reans  (5  syl.).  The  most 
northern  people,  who  dwell  bei/ond  Bo'reas 
(the  seat  of  the  north  wind),  j^laced  by 
Virgil  under  the  North  Pole.  They  are 
said  to  be  the  oldest  of  the  human  race, 
the  most  \'irtuous,  and  the  most  happy  ; 
to  dwell  for  some  thousand  years  under 
a  cloudless  sky,  in  fields  jaelding  double 
harvests,  and  in  the  enjoyment  of  per- 
petual sprmg.  When  sated  of  life  they 
crown   their  heads  with   flowers,   and 


l^lunge  headlong  from  the  mountain 
Huuueberg  or  Halleberg  into  the  sea, 
and  enter  at  once  the  paradise  of  Odin. 
{Scandinavian  mijthuloyij.) 

The  Hyperbo'reans,  it  is  said,  have  not 
an  atmo.sphere  like  our  own,  but  one 
consisting  wholly  of  feathers.  Both 
Herod'otos  and  Pliny  mention  this  fic- 
tion, which  they  say  was  suggested  by 
the  quantity  of  snow  observed  to  fall  in 
those  regions.     {Ileroelotos,  iv.  31.) 

Hyper'ion.  Properly,  the  father  of 
the  Sim  and  Moon,  but  by  jioets  made  a 
surname  of  the  Sun.  Shakespeare  makes 
it  a  synonjTii  of  Apollo.  The  proper 
pronunciation  is  Hyperi'on.  Thus 
Ovid— 

"  Pkicat  eqiio  Persis  radiis  HyiieriOiie  cinctiim." 
.  />(.<(/,  i.  385.    , 

"So  excollent  a  kins,  tliat  was  lo  lliis 
H.vper'ion  to  a  satyr." 

tihukcspeare :  Ilumlet,  i.  9. 

Hypermnestra'.  Wife  of  Lynceus 
(2  syl.),  and  the  only  one  of  the  fifty 
daughters  of  Daua,os  who  did  not  murder 
her  husband  on  their  bridal  night. 

Hypnotism.  The  art  of  producing 
trance-sleep,  or  hypno'sis ;  or  the  state 
of  being  hj'pnotised.  (Greek,  hiqmos, 
sleep.) 

"The  mi^tbod,  discovered  by  Mr.  Braid,  of  pro- 
duciii!,'  this  state  .  .  .  approjiriately  deslgnatt^d 
.  .  .  liypiiotism,  consists  in  the  maintenance  of  a 
fixed  gaze  for  several  minutes  .  .  .  on  a  bright 
object  placed  somewhat  above  [the  line  of  sight], 
at  so  short  a  distance  [as  to  produce  pain]." — 
Carpenter:  Principles  of  Mental  Physiology,  book 
ii.  cuap.  i.  p.  ijo. 

Hypochon'dria  (Greek,  ht/po  chon- 
dros,  under  the  cartilage) — i.e.  the  spaces 
on  each  side  of  the  epigastric  region, 
supposed  to  be  the  seat  of  melancholy  as 
a  disease. 

Hypoc'risy.  Vhypocrisxe  est  nn 
hommaye  que  le  vice  rend  a  la  vertu. 
{liochefoncauld.) 

Hyp'ocrite  (3  syl.).  Prince  of  hypo- 
crites. Tibe'i'ius  Caesar  was  so  called, 
because  he  affected  a  great  regard  for 
decency,  but  indulged  in  the  most  detest- 
able lust  and  cruelty  (b.c.  42,  14  to  a.d. 
37). 

Abdallah  Ibn  Obba  and  his  partisans 
were  called  The  Hypocriteshy  Mahomet, 
because  they  feigned  to  be  friends,  but 
were  in  reality  disguised  foes. 

Hyp'ccrites'  Isle,  called  by  Eabe- 
lais  C'haneph,  which  is  the  Hebrew  for 
' '  hypocrisy. ' '  Rabelais  says  it  is  wholly 
inhabited  by  sham  saints,  spiritual  come- 
dians, bead-tumblers,  mumblers  of  ave- 
mari'as,  and  such  like  sorry  rogues,  who 
Uved  on  the  alms  of  passengers,  like  the 


Hypostatic 


G42 


lapetos 


hermit  of  Loiinont.      [Tantagruel,   iv. 
63.) 

Hyposta'tic  Union.  The  union  of 
two  or  more  persons  into  one  undivided 
unity,  as,  for  example,  the  three  persons 
of  the  eternal  Godhead.  The  Greek 
hijpos'tasis  corresponds  to  the  Latin  prr- 
co'na.  The  time  persons  of  the  God  and 
thne  hypos' tases  of  the  Godhead  mea.ii  one 
and  the  same  thing. 

"Wo  do  not  find,  indeed,  that  tbe  bjiKistatic 
1  re-exisieiice  of  Clirist  was  an  article  of  their 
creed  [i.e.  of  the  Nazarenes]."— /■'is/io' ;  Super- 
vutural  Urigiii  0/  Christianiti/,  essay  v.  p.  319. 

Hypped  [hipt].  Melancholy,  low- 
sitirited.  Hyp.  is  a  coiitractiou  of  hi/po- 
choiidria. 

Hy'son.  One  of  the  varieties  of  green 
tea.  '■'■  Ainsi  noiuiiie  d'itii  mot  ehiuois 
qui  rent  dire  printemps,  parce  que  c'cst 
UH  eommeiicement  de  eette  saisoii  qiCon  le 
ciuilley     {M.  X.  Bouillet.) 

Hyssop.  David  says  (Ps.  li.  7) : 
"Purge  nie  with  hyssop,  and  I  shall  be 
clean."  The  reference  is  to  the  custom 
of  someone  who  was  ceremoniously 
"clean"  sprinkling  the  unclean  (when 
they  came  to  present  themselves  in  the 
Temple)  with  a  bunch  of  hyssop  dijjped 
in  water,  iu  which  had  been  mixed  the 
ashes  of  a  red  heifer.  This  was  done 
as  they  left  the  Court  of  the  Gentiles 
to  enter  the  Court  of  the  women 
(Numbers  xix.  17). 

Hys'teron  Prot'eron  (Greek).  The 
cart  before  the  horse. 


I.  This  letter  represents  a  finger,  and 
is  called  in  Hebrew  yod  ovjod  (a  hand). 

I  per  se  [I  by  itself],  i.e.  without  com- 
peer, pre-eminently  so. 

"  If  then  your  I  [yes]  ai^-recnient  want. 
I  to  your  1  [yes]  must  answer,  'No.' 
Therefore  leave  off  your  spelling  plea, 
An<l  let  your  I  [yes]  ho  I  per  se. 
i.e.  let  your  yes  be  yes  decidedly. 

Wits  Interpreter,  p.  11(5. 

V  Many  other  letters  are  similarly 
used;  as,  A  perse.  {See  A-pee-se.) 
Thus  in  llestitutn  Eliza  is  called  "The 
E p  r  se  of  all  that  ere  hath  been."  So 
again,  "  O,"  signifies  a  crier,  from  "  O 
yes  !  O  j-es !  "  We  have  "  Villanies  des- 
covered  by  .  .  .  the  help  of  a  new  crier, 
called  O  per  se  \i.e.  sujierior  to  his  pre- 
decessors]."    1666. 

Shakesjieare,  in  Troihts  and  Crcssida, 
i.  2,  even  uses  the  phrase  "a  very  man 
per  se"  =  A  1. 


I.H.S. — i.e.  the  Greek  IH2,  meaning 

IHSoC;  (Jesus),  the  long  e  (H)  being 
mistaken  for  a  capital  H,  and  the  dash 
perverted  into  a  cross.  The  letters 
being  thus  obtained,  St.  Bernardine  of 
Siena,  in  1347,  hit  upon  the  Latin  ana- 
gram, Jesus  Hont'i}tum  Salvator.  In 
Greek,  Iijo-ow  'H/ieTcpos  Suirr/p.  In  Ger- 
man, Jesus  HeilcDul  Seliymaeher.  Iu 
English,  Jesus  IleavcuUj  Saviour. 

I. U.S.    A  notarica  of  Japheth,  Ham, 
Seth,  the  three  sons  of  Noah,  by  whom 
the  world  was  peoi)led  after  the  Flood. 
+ 

I.H.S.  '^  In  hac  salus ''—i.e.  "  JJac 
eruee.'' 

I.O.U.  The  memorandum  of  a  debt 
given  by  the  borrower  to  the  lender.  It 
must  not  contain  a  promise  to  pay.  The 
letters  mean,  ■'  I  owe  You." 

An  I.O.U.  requires  no  stamp,  unless  it 
specifies  a  day  of  i)ayment,  when  it 
becomes  a  bilt,  and  must  have  a  stam.p. 

I.R.B.  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood, 
meaning  the  Fenian  conspiracy. 

lach'imo  [Ya/c-e-mo].  An  Italian 
libertine  in  Shakespeare's  Cymbeliite. 

lago  {Ya'yo  or  E-n'-yo'].  Othello's 
ensign  or  ancient.  He  hated  the  Moor 
both  because  Cassio,  a  Florentine,  was 
preferred  to  the  lieutenancy  instead  of 
himself,  and  also  from  a  suspicion  that 
the  Moor  had  tampered  with  his  wife  ; 
but  he  concealed  his  hatred  so  well  that 
Othello  wholly  trusted  him.  lago  jjer- 
suaded  Othello  that  Dcsdemo'na  intrigued 
with  Cassio,  and  urged  him  on  till  he 
murdered  his  bride.  His  chief  argument 
was  that  Desdemoua  had  given  Cassio  a 
pocket-handkerchief,  the  fact  being  that 
lago  had  set  on  his  wife  to  purloin  it. 
After  the  death  of  Desdemona,  Emilia 
(lago's  wife)  revealed  the  fact,  and  lago 
was  arrested. 

Shakespeare  generally  makes  three 
syllables  of  the  name,  as  — 

"  Let  it  not  pall  your  laticnce,  pood  I-a-.go.  \ 
Left  iu  the  conduct  of  the  i>ol(l  l-a-Ko.        J-ii.l. 
'  Tis  one  1-a-s'o,  ancient  to  the  yeucral."'    > 

lam'bic.  Futher  of  luinhic  verse. 
Archil'ochos  of  Paros  (B.C.  7H-676). 

lan'the  (3  syl.),  to  whom  Lord  Byron 
dedicated  his  (liihie  Harolde,  was  Lady 
Charlotte  Harley,  born  1S09,  and  only 
eleven  j-ears  old  at  the  time. 

lap'etos.  The  father  of  Atlas  and 
ancestor  of  the  human  race,  called  yeniis 
Idp'efi,  the  progeny  of  lapetus  (Greek 
and  Latin  mythology).  By  many  con- 
sidered the  same  as  Japheth,  one  of  the 
sons  of  Noah. 


Iberia 


643 


Ich   Dien 


Ibe'ria.  Spain ;  the  country  of  the 
Ibe'ius  or  Ebro.  (See  liouc :  On  the 
Laic  Glorious  Siicceases.) 

Ibe'ria's  Pilot.  Clnistopher  Colum- 
bus. Spaiu  is  called  "Iberia,"  aud  the 
Spaniards  the  "Iberi."  The  river  Ebro 
is  a  corrupt  fonn  of  the  Latin  lients. 

"  LnunclieJ  with  Iberia's  jilot  from  tbe  steep, 
To  woilJs  uiil;iir)\vii,:iiiu  isles  lieyoiid  Hie  d^-ep.'' 
Camiibelt :  The  I'icitsuref:  of  Uujic,  ii. 

Ibid.  A  contraction  of  ibidem  (Lat.), 
in  the  same  place. 

Ibis  or  Nik-bird.  The  Egyptians 
call  the  sacred  Ibis  Fatlicr  John.  It  is 
the  avatar'  of  the  god  Thoth,  wlio  in  the 
guise  of  an  Ibis  escaped  the  pursuit  of 
Typhon.  The  Egyptians  say  its  white 
plumage  symbolises  the  light  of  the  sun, 
and  its  black  neck  the  shadow  of  the 
moon,  its  body  a  heart,  and  its  legs  a 
triangle.  It  was  said  to  drink  only  the 
purest  of  water,  and  its  feathers  to  scare 
or  even  kill  the  crocodile.  It  is  also  said 
that  the  bird  is  so  fond  of  Egypt  that 
it  would  piue  to  death  if  trausj)orted  else- 
where. It  appears  at  the  rise  of  the 
Nile,  but  disappears  at  its  inimdatiou. 
If,  indeed,  it  devours  crocodiles'  eggs, 
scares  away  the  crocodiles  themselves, 
devours  serpents  and  all  sorts  of  noxious 
reptiles  and  insects,  no  wonder  it  should 
bo  held  in  veneration,  and  that  it  is 
made  a  crime  to  kill  it.     {See  Bieds.  ) 

IbiK.  The  Nile-bird,  says  Sollnus, 
' '  rummages  in  the  mud  of  the  Nile  for 
serpents'  eggs,  her  most  favourite  food." 

Iblia  or  Eblis.  The  Lucifer  of  Mozlem 
theology.  Once  called  Azazel  (prince  of 
the  apostate  angels),  {■'ice  Eblis.)  He 
has  hve  sous  : — 

(1)  ^V/-,  author  of  fatal  accidents  ;  (2) 
Aivar,  the  demon  of  lubricity  ;  (ii) 
iJdniii,  author  of  discord ;  (4)  Siit, 
father  of  lies  ;  and  (5)  Zidambur,  author 
of  mercantile  dishonesty. 

Ib'raham.  The  Abraham  of  the 
Koran. 

Icar'ian.  Soaring,  adventurous.  {See 
ICAEOS. )  Also  a  follower  of  Cabet,  the 
Communist,  a  native  of  Icaria  (last  half 
of  the  nineteenth  century). 

Icarcs.  Son  of  Da'dalos,  wlio  flew 
with  his  father  from  Crete  ;  but  the  sun 
melted  the  wax  with  which  his  wings 
were  fastened  on,  and  he  fell  into  the 
sea,  hence  called  the  Ica'rian.  (See 
Shakespeare:  '6  Henry  VI.,  v.  6.) 

Ice  (1  syl.).  To  break  the  ice.  To 
broach  a  disagreeable  subject;  to  open 
the  way.  In  allusion  to  breaking  ice  for 
bathers.       (Latin,     scin'dcrc^     (jlacicin ; 


Italian,    roiiijjcr    il   r/iacrio.)       (Anglo- 
Saxon,  Is.) 

"  [We]  An'  if  you   In'oak  the  ice,  and  do  this 
feat  .... 
Will  uot  S')  Ki'aceless  be,  to  be  ingrate." 

.Sft(iAe.-7«'((re;  Tamintj  uf  the  !Shrew,  i.  2. 

Ice-blink  {The).  An  indication  of 
pack-ice  or  of  a  frozen  surface  by  its  re- 
flection on  the  clouds.  If  the  sky  is  dark 
or  brown,  the  navigator  may  be  sure 
that  there  is  water  ;  if  it  is  white,  rosy, 
or  orange-coloured,  he  may  be  certain 
there  is  ice,  for  these  tints  ar.^  reflected 
from  the  sun's  raj's,  or  of  light.  The 
former  is  called  a  "  water  sky,"  the 
latter  an  "  ice  sky." 

Ice-brook.  A  su-ord  of  ice-brook 
ten/per.  Uf  the  very  best  quality.  The 
Sjjaniards  used  to  plunge  their  swords 
and  other  weapons,  while  hot  from  the 
forge,  into  the  brook  Sato  [Xalon],  near 
Bilbilis,  in  Celtiberia,  to  harden  them. 
The  Avater  of  this  brook  is  very  cold. 

"  It  is  a  sword  of  Spain,  tbe  ic  vbiook  teniper.'' 
!^hiikctp.:arc:  Uthcllu,  v.  2. 
■'  S;p\d  Bilbilin  np'iiniani  li.erallii 
Kt  feno  Plareani  siio  sonanteai 
(,iii:ini  (liietii  teniil  seil  iiic|nic'io 
Anoo'nim  8alo  teinperu'ior  aniliit." 

M'irtial. 

Ice  Saints  or  Frosf  Srdnfs.  Those 
saints  whose  days  fall  in  what  is  called 
"  the  black-thorn  winter  " — that  is,  the 
second  week  in  May  (between  1 1  and 
14).  Some  give  only  three  days,  but 
whether  11,  I'i,  13  or  l'-',  1:3,  14  is  not 
agreed.  May  11th  is  the  day  of  St. 
Mamertus,  May  12th  of  St.  Paucratius, 
May  !;jth  of  St.  Servatius,  and  May  14th 
of  St.  Boniface. 

"  fes  saincts  jas^s-.^nt  iionr  sainct^  uresleiirs, 
geleiiis,  et  i/ateurs  dn  boiii-j,'  -on."— iJ  ,b  luis. 

Iceberg.  A  hill  of  ice,  either  floating 
in  the  ocean,  or  aground.  The  magni- 
tude of  some  icebergs  is  very  great.  One 
seen  otf  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  was  two 
miles  in  circumference,  and  a  hundred 
and  fifty  feet  high.  For  every  cubic 
foot  above  water  there  must  be  at  least 
eight  feet  below. 

Iceland  Dogs.  Shaggy  white  dogs, 
once  great  favourites  witli  ladies.  Shake- 
sjoeare  mentions  them  {Henri/  V.,  ii.  1). 

"  l'j=e  and  custonie  bath  iutatained  .  .  .  Iceland 
dog','es  culled  and  roiiLrli  all  over,  wbicli,  liy 
reason  i>f  tbe  len-rtb  of  tbeirbeire  make  sliowe 
neither  of  face  nor  of  \)oiiy."  —  t'loaliij :  Of 
L'u'jUfli  Vuijiia  (lirt'O. 

Icb  Dien.  According  to  a  Welsh  tra- 
dition, Edward  I.  promised  to  provide 
Wales  with  a  prince  "who  could  speak 
no  word  of  English,"  and  when  his  sou 
Edward  of  Carnarvon  was  born  he  pre- 
sented him  to  the  assembly,  saying  in 
Welsh  £ich  dyn  (behold  the  man). 


Ichneumon 


614 


Idle   Wheel 


The  more  general  belief  is  that  it  was 
the  motto  under  the  plume  of  John,  King 
of  Bohemia,  slain  by  the  Black  Prince  at 
Cressy  m  1346,  and  that  the  Black  Prince 
who  slew  the  Bohemian  assumed  it  out 
of  modesty,  to  indicate  that  "he  served 
imder  the  king  his  father." 

Ichneu'mon.  An  animal  resembling 
a  weasel,  and  well  worthy  of  being  de- 
fended by  priest  aud  prince  in  Egyjjt,  as 
it  feeds  on  serpents,  mice,  and  otlier 
vermin,  and  is  especially  fond  of  croco- 
diles' eggs,  which  it  scratches  out  of  the 
sand.  According  to  legend,  it  steals 
into  the  mouths  of  crocodiles  when  they 
gape,  aud  cats  out  their  bowels.  The 
ichneumon  is  called  "  Pharaoh's  rat." 

Ichor  {I'-lcor).  The  colourless  blood 
of  tlie  heathen  deities.  (Greek,  ichor, 
jiuce.) 

IcMhus  for  ie'sous,  CZ/ristos,  TJIeou 
I'ios,  .Voter.  This  notarica  is  found  on 
many  seals,  rings,  urns,  aud  tombstones, 
belonging  to  the  early  times  of  Chris- 
tianity, and  was  supposed  to  be  a 
"charm  "  of  mystical  efficacy. 

Icon  Basil'ike  (4  syl.).  Portraitui-e 
of  King  Charles  I. 

"The  eiKuji',  (ir  Piirtraiture  of  liys  Majesty  in 
liys  siiliuidrs  :iii(l  siifferiims  .  .  .  was  wljcilly  and 
uiily  njy  inw'iiUou.'—tkiiulcii :  Letter  tu  Clnreudnii. 

Icon'oclasts  (Greek,  "  image  break- 
ers"), lieformers  who  rose  in  the 
eighth  century,  especially  averse  to  the 
employment  of  pictures,  statues,  em- 
blems, and  all  visible  representations  of 
sacred  objects.  The  crut-ade  against 
these  things  began  in  71^6  with  the 
Emperor  Leo  III.,  aud  continued  for 
one  hundred  and  twenty  years.  (Greek, 
ikon,  an  image  ;  klao,  1  break.) 

"  The  ei^'hth  century,  the  age  (if  the  Iconnclasts, 
had  uot  been  favouraiile  to  literatnre."— /soac 
'laylor:  The  Alphabet,  vol.  ii.  chap.  viii.  i).  loU. 

Idse'an  Mother.  Cyb'ele,  who  had 
a  temple  on  Mount  Ida,  in  Asia  Minor. 

Idealism.  The  doctrines  taught  by 
Idealists. 

Siihjectire  idealisii),  taught  by  Fechte 
(2  syl.),  supposes  the  object  (say  a  tree) 
and  the  image  of  it  on  the  mind  is  all 
one.  Or  rather,  that  there  is  no  object 
outside  the  mental  idea. 

Objective  idealism,  taught  by  Schelling, 
supposes  that  the  tree  and  the  image 
thereof  on  the  mind  are  distinct  from 
each  other. 

Absolnte  idealism,  taught  by  Hegel, 
supposes  there  is  no  such  thing  as  phe- 
nomena ;  that  mind,  through  the  senses, 


creates  its  own  world.     In  fact,   that 
there  is  no  real,  but  all  is  mere  ideal. 

These  are  three  German  philosophers  : 
He«el  (17:o-l.<il). 
S.-helliliL,-  (I770-I>.ij). 
Fechte  ii;tiL'-j»ll). 

Idealists.  Those  who  believe  in 
idealism.  They  may  be  divided  into 
two  distinct  sections — 

(1)  Those  who  follow  Plato,  who 
taught  that  before  creation  tliere  existed 
certain  types  or  ideal  models,  of  which 
ideas  created  objects  are  the  visible 
images.  Malebranche,  Kant,  Schelling, 
Hegel,  etc.,  were  of  this  school. 

(2)  Those  who  maintain  tliat  all  phe- 
nomena are  only  subjective — that  is, 
mental  cogni-sances  only  within  our- 
selves, and  what  we  see  and  what  we 
liear  are  only  brain  impressions.  Of  this 
school  were  Berkeley,  Hume,  Pichte, 
aud  many  others. 

I'des  (1  syl.).  In  the  Roman  calendar 
the  loth  of  March,  May,  July,  and 
October,  and  the  13th  of  all  the  other 
mouths.  (Latiu  and  Etruscan,  idadre, 
to  divide.  Tlie  middle  of  the  month. 
Always  eight  days  after  the  Nones.) 

"  Remember  March  ;  the  iiles  of  March  remem- 
ber." ,'-7i(i/a'.'-/iC(irf:  Julius  C'<e.  iir,  iv.3. 

Id'ioin.  A  mode  of  expression  peculiar 
to  a  language,  as  a  Latin  idiom,  a 
French  idiom.  (Greek,  id'ios,  peculiar 
to  oneself.) 

Idiosyncrasy.  A  crotchet  or  pe- 
culiar one-sided  view  of  a  subject,  a 
monomania.  Properly  a  peculiar  eifect 
produced  by  medicines  or  foods ;  as 
when  coffee  acts  as  an  aperient ;  the 
electrical  current  as  an  emetic,  as  it  does 
upon  me.  (Greek,  idios  san  krasis,  some- 
thiug  pecuhar  to  a  person's  tempera- 
ment.) 

Id'iot  meant  originally  a  private  per- 
son, one  uot  engaged  in  any  pubHc  office. 
Hence  Jeremy  Taylor  says,  "  Humility 
is  a  duty  in  great  ones,  as  well  as  in 
idiots"  (private  persons).  The  Greeks 
have  the  expressions,  "  a  priest  or  an 
icbot"  (layman),  "a  poet  or  an  idiot" 
(prose- writer).  As  idiots  were  not  em- 
ployed in  public  offices,  the  term  became 
synonymous  with  incompetency  to  fulfil 
the  duties  thereof .  {Gieck,  id  to' tes.)  {See 
Baron.) 

I'dle  Lake.  The  lake  on  which 
Phredria  or  Wantonness  cruised  in  her 
gondola.  It  led  to  Wandering  Island. 
{Speiixer  :  Faerie  Queeuc,  book  ii.) 

Idle  Wheel.  The  middle  of  three 
wheels,  which  simply  conveys  the  motiou 


Idle  Worms 


645 


Ignis  PatUTiS 


of  one  outside  wheel  to  the  other  out- 
side wheel. 

Suiniose  A,  B,  C  to  be  tbree  wheels,  B  beins  tbe 
idle  (II-  gv.'ar  wheel.  B  simjily  conveys  tbe  motion 
of  A  to  C,  or  of  C  to  A. 

I'dle  Worms.  It  was  once  supposed 
that  little  worms  were  bred  in  tlif  tiii^rrs 
of  idle  servants.  To  this  Shakespeare 
alludes — 

"A  round  I'ttle  worm 
Pi-ic'.;cd  from  tie  lazy  ttiiuer  of  m  maid." 

Shalcesi  tare :  Rmteo  and  Juliet,  i.  4. 

Idleness.  The  Lake  of  Idleness. 
Spenser  says  whoever  drank  of  this  lake 
grew  "  instantly  faint  and  weary."  The 
Red  Cross  Knight  drank  of  it,  and  was 
made  captive  by  Orgoglio.  {Spenser  : 
Faerie  Queeiie,  hook  \.) 

Idol  Shepherd  (The),  Zech.  ii.  17. 
"  Woe  to  the  idol  shepherd  that  leaveth 
bis  flock."  Idol  shepherd  means  self- 
seeking,  countei'feit,  ijseudo  ;  the  shep- 
herd that  sets  up  himself  to  be  worshipped 
by  his  people  instead  of  God. 

Idom'eneus  (4  syl.).  King  of  Crete, 
and  ally  of  the  Greeks  in  the  siege  of 
Troy.  After  the  city  was  burut  he  made 
a  vow  to  sacrifice  whatever  he  first  en- 
countered, if  the  gods  granted  him  a 
safe  return  to  his  kingdom.  It  was 
his  own  son  that  he  first  met,  and  when 
he  offered  him  up  to  fulfil  his  vow  he 
was  banished  from  Crete  as  a  murderer. 
{Humcr :  I/iad.) 

Compare  the  story  of  Jephthah  in 
Judges  xi. 

Idun'a  or  Idun'.  Daughter  of  the 
dwarf  Svald,  and  wife  of  Bragi.  She 
kept  in  a  box  the  golden  apples  which 
the  gods  tasted  as  often  as  they  wished 
to  renew  their  youth.  Loki  on  one 
occasion  stole  the  box  and  hid  it  in  a 
wood ;  but  the  gods  compelled  him  to 
restore  it.     (Seandinaviaii  mi/t/iolor/i/.) 

V  Iduna  seems  to  personify  the  year 
between  March  and  September,  when 
the  sun  is  north  of  the  equator.  Her 
apples  indicate  fruits  generally.  Loki 
carries  her  off  to  Giant-Land,  when  the 
Sun  descends  below  the  equator,  and  he 
steals  her  apples.  In  time,  Iduna  makes 
her  escajje,  in  the  form  of  a  sparrow, 
when  the  Sun  again,  in  March,  rises 
above  the  equator ;  and  both  gods  and 
men  rejoice  in  her  return. 

Ifa'kins.  A  corruption  of  I//  pood 
faith.  V  fa'  kin,  where  kin  is  equivalent 
to  dear  or  r/ood. 

Ifreet  or  Afreet  or  Afrif.  A  powerful 
evil  jiu  or  spirit  of  Arabian  mythology. 
{.See  Afeiet.) 


If  urin.  The  Hades  of  the  ancient 
Gauls.  A  dark  region  infested  by  ser- 
pents and  savage  beasts.  Here  the 
wicked  are  chained  in  loathsome 
caverns,  plunged  into  the  lairs  of  dra- 
gons, or  subjected  to  a  ceaseless  distilla- 
tion of  poison.     {Celtic  inytholoyij.) 

Iger'na,  Igerne,  or  Igrayne.  Wife 
of  Gorlois,  Duke  of  Tintag'el,  in  Corn- 
wall, and  mother  of  King  Arthur.  His 
father  was  Uther,  peudragon  of  the 
Britons,  who  married  Igerna  thirteen 
days  after  her  husband  was  slain. 

Igna'ro.  Foster-fatlier  of  Orgoglio. 
Whatever  question  Arthur  asked,  the 
old  dotard  answered,  "  He  could  not 
tell."  Spenser  says  this  old  man  walks 
one  way  and  looks  another,  because 
ignorance  is  always  "  wrong-headed." 
{Spenser:  Faerie  Qneene,  booki.) 

*,*  {See  NoN  mi  Recoedo.) 

Ignatius  {St.)  is  represented  in 
Christian  art  accompanied  by  lions,  or 
chained  and  exposed  to  them,  in  allusion 
to  his  martyrdoin.  The  legend  is  that 
he  was  brought  before  the  Emperor 
Trajan,  who  condemued  him  to  be  made 
the  food  of  lions  and  other  wild  beasts 
for  the  delectation  of  the  people.  Ac- 
cording to  tradition,  St.  Ignatius  was  the 
little  child  whom  our  Saviour  set  in  the 
midst  of  His  disciples  for  theii'  example. 
(About  29-115.) 

Brother  Ignatius.  The  Ivev.  James 
Leycester  Lyne,  for  some  time  head  of 
the  English  Benedictines  at  the  Norwich 
Protestant  monastery.  Now  at  Llan- 
thony. 

Father  Ignatius.  The  Hon.  and  Rev. 
Geo.  Spencer,  formerly  a  clergyman 
of  the  Church  of  England,  who  joined 
the  Roman  communion,  and  became 
Superior  of  the  order  of  Passionists. 
(1799-1864.) 

Ignatius  Loy'cla,  founder  of  the 
order  of  Jesuits,  is  depicted  in  art  some- 
times with  the  sacred  monogram  I. U.S. 
on  his  breast,  and  sometimes  as  contem- 
plating it,  surrounded  by  glory  in  the 
skies,  in  allusion  to  his  boast  that  he 
had  a  miraculous  knowledge  of  the 
mystery  of  the  Trinity  vouchsafed  to 
him.  He  is  so  represented  in  Rubens' 
famous  picture  in  Warwick  Castle. 

Igneous  Hocks.  Those  which  have 
been  produced  by  the  agency  of  fire,  as 
the  granitic,  the  trappean,  and  the  vol- 
canic.    (Latin,  iynis,  fire.) 

Ignis  Fat'uus  means  strictly  a 
fatuous  fire  ;  it  is  also  called  "  Jack  o' 


Ignoramus 


OK) 


Iliad 


Lnntt'Di,''''  '■^  Spinilif,"  "  fValking Firr,''^ 
^^  Tnil  r/  f/if  //'/.vy;,"  and  ^' Fair  Maul 
of  IrehnaJ y  Milton  calls  it /';•(>?>•'«  Jau}- 
tliern,  and  Sir  Walter  Scott  Friar  Itiinh 
irith  a  lantern.  Morally  speaking,  a 
Uto'pian  scheme,  no  more  rediutible  to 
practice  than  the  meteor  so  called  can  be 
turned  to  any  useful  end.  (Plural, 
Ir/msfat&i.)  (See  Fkiak's  Lanthoen.) 
"  When  tluni  ranni'st  up  (iiulsliill  in  tlio  Ili^•llt  to 
cati-li  inv  liiii-SP,  if  1  diil  m.l  mink  ilimi  li:i<lsl  been 
nil  igniH  fatuus  nr  a  hull  "f  «  ililllre,  tlierc's  no 
jmnliase  iu  uumey."—Slial:t.ipeitrv:  1  Ilinry  IW. 
i.i.  3. 

V  According  to  a  Russian  superstition, 
these  wandering  fires  are  the  spirits  of 
stillborn  children  which  flit  between 
heaven  and  tlie  Inferno. 

Ignora'mus.  One  who  ignores  the 
knowledge  of  something  ;  one  really  un- 
acquainted with  it.  It  is  an  ancient  law 
tenn.  Ihe  grand  jury  used  to  write 
Ignoramus  on  the  back  of  indictments 
''not  found"  or  not  to  be  sent  into  court. 
Hence  ic/non\  The  present  custom  is  to 
write  "  Xo  true  bill." 

Ignoramus  Jury  (J w).    Tlie  Grand   | 

Jul y.      {■''<''('  a/x-'ir.) 

Ignoran tines  (4  syl.).  A  religious 
association  founded  by  the  Abbe  de  la 
Salle  iu  1724,  for  educating  gratuitously 
the  children  of  the  poor. 

Igrayne.     {Sec  Igeena.) 

Ihram.  The  white  cotton  dress 
worn  by  Mohammedan  jnlgrims  to 
Mecca,  For  jnrn,  two  scarfs,  without 
seams  or  ornament  of  any  kind,  of  any 
material  except  silk  ;  one  scarf  is  folded 
round  the  loins,  and  the  other  is  thrown 
over  the  neck  and  shoulders,  leaving  the 
right  arm  free  ;  the  head  is  micovered. 
For  ironirn,  an  ample  cloak,  enveloping 
the  whole  person. 

II  Paster  Fi'do  [tlu-  FailJiful  Strain']. 
This  standard  of  elegant  pastoral  compo- 
sition is  by  Giovanni  Battista  Guari'ni, 
of  Ferrara  (1.537-161'2). 

Il'iad  (3  syl.).  The  tale  of  the  siege 
of  Troy,  an  epic  poem  by  Homer,  in 
twenty-four  books.  Men'ela'os,  King 
of  Sparta,  received  as  his  guest  Paris, 
a  son  of  Priam  (King  of  Troy),  Avho 
ran  away  with  Helen,  liis  hostess. 
Men'ela'os  induced  the  Greeks  to  lay 
siege  to  Troy  to  avenge  the  perfidy, 
and  the  siege  lasted  ten  years.  The 
poem  begins  in  the  tenth  year  witli  a 
cjuarrel  between  Agamemnon,  com- 
mander-in-chief of  the  allied  Greeks, 
and  Achilles,  the  hero  who  retired  from 
the  army  in  ill-temper.      The   Trojans 


now  prevail,  and  Achilles  sends  his 
friend  Patroc'los  to  ojipose  them,  hut 
Patroclos  is  slain.  Achilles,  in  a  des- 
perate rage,  rushes  into  the  battle,  and 
slays  Hector,  the  commander  of  the 
Trojan  army.  The  poem  ends  with  tlie 
funeral  rites  of  Hector.  (Greek,  IiVis, 
genitive,  I/u((l[os],  th'?  land  of  Ilium. 
It  is  an  adjective,  and  the  word  mcaiis, 
"  a  poem   about  the  land  of  Ilium.") 

V  Probably  "  iEncid  "  is  Ihe  genitive 
of  .32neas,  ^■F/iPado.s,  and  moans  a  poem 
about  yFnens.  {See  iENEiD  for  another 
derivation.) 

"Wolf,  Hcini>,  anil  our  own  (".rote,  l.clievi'd  tlie 
Tli<t(l  to  lie  the  work  of  several  poets.  U.  W. 
Browne  says  -.— 

"  No  (loiilil  was  evercnterlaineil  by  the  ancients 
rcspecffiiif;  the  personality  <if  lion  er.  Pindar, 
riato  Aristotle.and  others, all  assumed  this  fact; 
nor  did  they  even  doubt  l  hat  the  Hind  and  f></(/.swi/ 
were  the  work  of  one  minti."~llistofiail  i  Uisficul 
J.itcrotKre,  book  i.  chap.  iv.  p.  3!t. 

77i('  "  Iliad^''  ill  n  niitHhell.  Pliny  ( vii. 
21)  tells  us  that  the  7/(Vw/ was  copied  in 
so  small  a  hand  that  the  whole  work 
could  lie  in  a  walnut-shell.  Plinj-'s 
authority  is  Cicero  {Jpad  (leUiani,  ix. 
421).  Huet,  Bishop  of  Avranches, 
demonstrated  the  i)ossibility  of  this 
achievement  by  writing  eighty  verses  of 
the  Iliad  on  a  single  line  of  a  pape 
similar  to  this  "  iJictionarj'. "  This 
would  be  19,000  verses  to  the  page,  or 
2,000  more  than  the  Iliad  contains. 

V  In  the  Harieian  MS.S.  {'M)  we  have 
an  account  of  Peter  Bales,  an  English- 
man, clerk  of  the  Couit  of  Chancery  iu 
the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  under 
date  of  1.390,  who  wrote  out  the  whole 
Bible  so  small  that  he  inclosed  it  in  a 
walnut  shell  of  English  growth.  {See 
Nutshell.) 

"  Whilst  they  (as  Homer's  Iliad  in  a  nut) 
A  world  of  wonders  in  one  closet  shut." 
Un  the  Minnmintal  stone  of  the  Tiddcacants 
in  Liinihcth  Vliiircliynrd. 

The  Freiieh  Iliad.  The  Ilomanec  of 
the  Rose,  begun  by  Guillaume  di  Lorris 
in  the  latter  half  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, and  continued  by  Jean  de  Meung 
in  the  early  jjart  of  the  fourteenth.  The 
jjoem  is  supposed  to  be  a  dream.  The 
poet  in  his  tlream  is  accosted  by  Dame 
Idleness,  who  conducts  him  to  the  Palace 
of  Pleasure,  whore  he  meets  Love,  accom- 
panied by  Sweet- looks,  Kiches,  Jollity, 
Courtesy,  Liberality,  and  Youth,  who 
spend  their  time  in  dancing,  singing, 
and  other  amusements.  By  this  retinue 
the  poet  is  conducted  to  a  bed  of  rosea, 
where  he  singles  out  one  and  attempts 
to  pluck  it,  when  an  arrow  from  Cupid's 
bow  stretches  him  fainting  on  the  ground, 
and  he  is  carried  far  away  from  the  fiower 
of  his  choice.    As  soon  as  he  recovers, 


Iliad 


647 


Illinois 


he  finds  himself  alone,  and  resolves  to 
return  to  his  rose.  Welcome  goes  with 
him ;  but  Danger,  Shame-face,  Fear, 
and  Slander  obstruct  him  at  every  turn. 
Eeason  advises  him  to  abandon  the  pur- 
suit, but  this  he  will  not  do  ;  whereupon 
Pity  and  Liberality  aid  him  in  reaching 
the  rose  of  his  choice,  and  Venus  permits 
him  to  touch  it  with  his  lips.  Meanwhile, 
Slander  rouses  up  Jealousj*,  who  seizes 
Welcome,  whom  he  casts  into  a  strong 
castle,  and  gives  the  key  of  the  castle 
door  to  an  old  hag.  Here  the  poet  is 
left  to  mouiii  over  his  fate,  and  the  ori- 
ginal posm  ends.  Meung  added  18, COO 
lines  as  a  sequel. 

The  German  Il'iail.  The  Nibelmiffoi- 
lied,  put  into  its  present  form  in  1210 
by  a  wandering  minstrel  of  Austria.  It 
consists  of  twenty  parts.      {See  Xibe- 

LITXG.) 

27;t'  PortugHese  Iliad.  The  Ziisiad 
(y.r.),  by  Camoens. 

The  Scutch  Iliad.  The  Epiqo' niad, 
by  William  Wilkie,  called  The  Scottish 
Homer  (1721-177^).  Tlie  Epiyo'iriad  is 
the  tale  of  the  Epig'oni,  or  seven  Grecian 
heroes  who  laid  siege  to  Thebes.  When 
CE'dipos  abdicated,  his  two  sons  agreed 
to  reign  alternate  j'ears  ;  but  at  the  ex- 
piration of  the  first  year,  the  elder  son, 
named  Ete'ocles,  refused  to  give  up 
tlie  throne,  whereupon  Polynlkes,  the 
younger  brother,  induced  six  chiefs  to 
espouse  his  cause.  The  allied  army  laid 
siege  to  Thebes,  but  without  success. 
Subsequently,  seven  sons  of  the  chiefs 
resolved  to  avenge  their  fathers'  deaths, 
marclied  against  the  city,  took  it,  and 
placed  Terpander,  one  of  their  number, 
on  the  throne.  The  Greek  tragic  poets 
JE'schylus  and  Eurip'ides  have  drama- 
tised this  subject. 

niad  of  Ills  {All).  Il'ias  mahfram 
{Cicero:  Ad  Atttviim,  viii.  11).  A  number 
of  evils  falling  simultaneously;  there  is 
scarce  a  calamity  in  the  whole  catalogue 
of  human  ills  that  finds  not  mention  in 
the  Hind,  hence  the  Homeric  poem  was 
the  fountain  of  classic  tragedj*. 

Ilk.  The  surname  of  the  person 
spoken  of  is  the  same  as  the  name  of 
his  estate.  It  is  quite  a  mistake  to  use 
the  phrase  "All  that  ilk"  to  signify  all 
of  that  name  or  sort.  Bcthinie  of  that  ilk 
means  "Bethunoof  Bethune.''  (Gaelic, 
ilk,  clan ;  Anglo-Saxon,  He,  the  same.) 

Ill-got,  Ill-spent.  Treasures  of 
wickedness  jjrofit  nothing.    (Prov.  x.  2.) 

Ill  May-day.  The  1st  of  May,  1517, 
when  the  London   apprentices  rose  up 


against  the  resident  foreigners,  and  did 
great  mischief.  More  commonly  known 
as  Evil  May-day  {q.r.). 

Ill  Omens  averted. 

Leotych'ides  II.,  of  Sprrta,  was  told 
by  his  augurs  that  his  projected  expedi- 
tion would  fail,  because  a  viper  had  got 
entangled  in  the  handle  of  the  city  key. 
"  Xot  so,"  he  replied.  "The  key 
caught  the  viper." 

When  Julius  Ca?sar  landed  at  Adrume'- 
tum,  in  Africa,  he  happened  to  trip  and 
fall  on  his  face.  This  would  have  been 
considered  a  fatal  omen  by  his  arm}' ; 
but,  with  admirable  presence  of  mind, 
he  exclaimed,  "Thus  I  take  possession 
of  thee,  O  Africa  I"  Told  of  Scipio 
also. 

When  William  the  Conqueror  leaped 
upon  the  shore  at  Bulverhj-the  he  fell 
on  his  face,  and  a  gi-eat  cry  went  forth 
that  it  was  an  ill-omen  ;  but  the  duke 
exclaimed,  "  I  have  taken  seisin  of  this 
land  with  both  my  hands." 

When  the  Duke  was  arming  for  the 
battle,  his  squire  by  accident  handed 
him  the  back  piece  before  the  breast- 
plate, an  evil  omen,  siguifj'ing  flight. 
But  the  Duke,  with  ready  wit,  said, 
"Yes,  the  last  shall  be  first" — i.e.  the 
duke  shall  be  king. 

Napoleon  III.  did  a  graceful  thing  to 
avert  an  ill  omen.  Captain  Jean  Ccaur- 
jireux,  in  a  ball  given  at  the  Tuileries, 
trijiped  and  fell  ;  but  Napoleon  held 
out  his  hand  to  helj^  him  up,  saying 
as  he  did  so,  "Monsieur  le  Command- 
ant, this  is  the  second  time  I  have  seen 
you  fall.  The  fiist  time  was  by  my  side 
in  the  field  of  Magenta."  Then,  turn- 
ing to  the  lady,  he  added,  "  Henceforth 
Captain  Cceurpreux  is  commandant  of 
my  Guides." 

Ill-starred.  Unlucky;  fated  to  be 
unfortunate.  Othello  says  of  Desde- 
mona,  "O  ill-stan-ed  wench!"  Of 
course,  the  allusion  is  to  the  astrological 
dogma  that  the  stars  influence  the  for- 
tunes of  mankind. 

"  Wliei-L-'tr  tlmt  ill-starred  limiie  may  lie." 

Moove:  Fire  Worishijiiiern. 

Ill  Wind.  '  Tis  an  ill  u-ind  that  hloirs 
nohodij  an'i  good.  Someone  profits  by 
every  loss  ;  someone  is  benefited  by 
every  misfortune. 

"  Except  winil  stands  as  never  it  stntid, 
It  i.-i  an  ill-wind  turns  mine  to  gond." 
Tusscr :  t'.ve  llumi-.ed  Puhit.^  of  Good 

Iliisbiindnj.  xiii. 

Illinois,  U.S.  America.  The  Dela- 
ware Indian  word  Hlini  (real  men)  with 
the  French  termination   -ois. 


liluminated 


643 


immolate 


Illumina'ted    Doctor.       Kaymond 

Lully  (123.5-1310). 

Joliu  Tauler,  the  Gemian  mystic 
(1294-1361). 

lUumlna'tl.  The  baptised  were  at 
one  time  so  called,  because  a  lighted 
caudle  was  giveu  them  to  hold  as  a 
symbol  that  they  were  illuminated  by 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

Four  rcIiffioKS  societies  have  been  so 
called,  viz.  : 

(1)  The  Hesychasts  in  the  fourteenth 
century. 

(2)  The  Alombra'dos  of  Sjjain  in  the 
sixteenth  century. 

(3)  The  Gueriuets  of  France  in  tlie 
seventeenth  centur}-. 

(4)  The  Mystics  of  Belgium  in  the 
eighteenth  century. 

Add  to  these  the  Rosicrucians  {qj'-). 

The  Order  of  the  Jlbiminati.  A  re- 
publican society,  foimded  at  Ingold- 
stadt  in  Bavaria,  177(3;  having  for  its 
object  the  establishment  of  a  religion 
consistent  with  ''  sound  reason." 

Illuminations.  Characteristics  of 
Anglo-Saxon  illuminations  from  the 
eightli  to  the  eleventh  century.  Ex- 
treme intricacy  of  pattern. 

Interlaeiugs  of  knots  in  a  diagonal  or 
square  form,  sometimes  interwoven  witli 
animals  and  terminating  with  lieads  of 
serpents  or  birds.     {Sir  F.  Madden.) 

The  Durham  Book,  the  work  of 
Eadfrid,  Bishoi)  of  Lindisfarne,  who 
died  721,  is  a  most  splendid  specimen 
of  illumination. 

The  Benedictioual  of  St.  Ethehcold, 
an  illuminated  MS.  by  Godemann,  in 
the  Duke  of  Devonshire's  library,  is 
worthy  of  Rapliael  or  Michael  Angelo. 
It  was  executed  between  9G3  and  984, 
and  is  full  of  miniatures  and  designs  in 
the  highest  style  of  art.  Beautiful  en- 
gravings of  it  may  be  seen  in  the 
yirchaologia. 

Illuminator.  Gregory,  the  apostle 
of  Christianity  among  the  Amieuians 
(257-331). 

Illustrious  {The). 

Albert  V.,  Duke  and  second  Emperor 
of  Austria  (1398-1439). 
Nicome'des  II.    Epiph'anes  (149-191). 
Ptolemy    V.      Epiph'a)tis    (210,    205- 

181  B.C.). 

Jam-sheid  (Jam  the  lUustrious), 
nephevv  of  Tab  Omurs,  fifth  king  of 
the  Paisdadian  dynasty  of  Persia  (B.C. 
840-800). 

Kien-lung,  fourth  of  the  Manchoo 
dynasty  of  Chma  (1736-1796). 


Image  of  God.     IVear  not  the  imaffe 

of  God  in  a  ring.  This  is  the  twenty- 
fourth  sjTnbolic  saying  in  the  Protreptics 
of  lamblichus,  and  is  tantamount  to  the 
commandment  "Thou  shalt  not  take 
the  name  of  God  in  vain."  Pythagoras 
meant  to  teach  his  discijiles  by  this 
restriction  that  God  was  far  too  holy  a 
being  to  be  used  as  a  mere  ornamental 
device,  and  engraved  on  a  ring  worn  on 
a  man's  linger,  which  might  be  used  for 
any  ordinary  jturpose. 

"  In  aniiulci  Dei  IlL'ur.-iiii  lie  ,cosl:it.i." 

Images  which  fell  from  Heaven. 

Diana  of  Ephcsus  (Acts  xix.  3.3).  The 
same  is  said  of  the  image  of  Cybele 
(3  syl.),  set  up  in  the  temple  of  Victory, 
at  liome. 

Im'aum  (2  syl.)  or  Imam.    One  of 

the  Ule'ma  or  priestly  body  of  the  Ma- 
hometans. He  recites  the  jirayers  and 
leads  the  devotions  of  tlie  congregation. 
Im'aums  wear  a  high  turban.  The 
sultan  as  "  head  of  the  Moslems'"  is  au 
Imaum.  The  word  means  teacher  or 
guide. 

Ima'us   (3  syl.).      The    Ilim'alny'a. 
The  word  means  ,v«om' hills  (/i/w/ff,  snow). 
"  The  luipe  iiicuniliraiice  of  lioniflr  wnods 
From  Asian  Taurus,  frmii  liiiaiis  si  rctcluMl 
Atlnvart  the  roviug  Tartar's  sullen  ImiuihIs." 
Thoniavii :  Aidiiiiiii, 

Im'becile  (3  syl.).  One  mentally 
weak.  Literally,  one  who  leans  "on  a 
stick."  (Latin,  iniheeillis,  from  in- 
bacillum.) 

Imbroca'do  (Spanish).  Cloth  of  gold 
or  silver. 

Imbroca'ta,  in  fencing,  is  a  thrust 
over  the  arm.    (Italian.) 

"If  vciur  enoiiiie  hee  eiiiiiiini;  and  sfcilfull, 
never  stand  almnt  fiivins  any  foine  or  inihro- 
cata,  l>nt  this  thrust  w  stiiccata  ahme,  neither  it 
also  [never  attemiitj  uulesse  .vou  he  sure  to  hit 
him."— .S'((i'io/u  ;  I'ritctise  of  tlie  Duello  (Ijyj). 

Imbro'glio  (Italian).  A  complicated 
plot ;  a  misunderstanding  between  na- 
tions and  persons  of  a  complicated 
nature. 

Immac'ulate  Conception.  Tlie 
dogma  that  ttie  Virgin  Mary  was  con- 
ceived without  Original  sin.  This 
dogma  was  first  broached  by  St.  Bern- 
ard, and  was  stoutly  maintained  by 
Duns  Scotus  and  his  disciples,  but  was 
not  received  by  the  Romaii  Catholic 
Church  as  an  article  of  faith  till  1854. 

Im'molate  (3  syl.).  To  sacrifice; 
literally,  "jmt  meal  on  one."  The  re- 
ference is  to  the  ancient  custom  of 
sprinkling  meal  and  salt  on  the  head  of 


Imraortal 


649 


Irnpoiider  able  S 


a    -victim    to    be    offered    in    saciifice. 
(Latiu,  in-inolo.) 

"  \n  the  iiictiire  of  the  inimolation  of  Isaac,  or 
Ahraham  sacritlciii!,'  liis  sun,  Isaac  is  descriheJ 
as  a  little  ]my."—Iiroum. 

Immor'tal  {Tlie).  Yong-Tching, 
third  of  the  Manchoo  dj-nasty  of  China, 
assumed  the  title.     (1723-173(3.) 

Immortal  Four  of  Italy  {The). 
Daute  (126.5-1321). 
Petrarch  (1301-1374). 
Ariosto  (1474-1533),  and 
Tasso  (1544-1595). 

"  The  poets  read  he  o'er  and  o'er, 
And  must  of  all  the  immortal  four 
Of  Italy."      Longfellow:  The  Wai/side  Inn. 

Immortal    Three    {The).      Homer, 

Dante,  and  Milton. 
"Three  poets,  in  three  distant  ages  born, 
Greece,  Italy,  and  England  did  adorn  ; 
The  first  iu  loftiness  liftlioiiijlit  surpassed, 
The  next  in  majesty  ;  in  hoih  the  last  : 
The  force  of  nature  could  no  farther  gn. 
To  make  a  third,  she  joined  the  other  two." 

Dryden  :   A  Tablet  to  the  Memory  of  John  Milton 
(St.  M,u-y-le-Bow,  Cheaiisidc). 

•.•  It  was  originally  in  the  church  of  All  Hal- 
lows, Bread  .Street. 

Immortal  Tinker  {The).  John 
Bunyau,  a  tinker  by  trade.  (1628-1088.) 

Immortals.  A  regiment  of  10,000 
choice  foot-soldiers,  which  constituted 
the  body-guard  of  the  Persian  kings. 
There  was  also  an  army  so  n.amed  at 
Constantinople,  according  to  Ducange, 
first  embodied  by  Major  Ducas. 

V  The  7Gth  Foot  were  called  "The 
Immortals,"  because  so  many  were 
wounded,  taut  not  killed,  in  Hindi'istan 
(1788-1806).  This  regiment,  with  the 
old  33rd,  now  form  the  two  battalions 
of  the  West  Eiduig. 

Imimortality.  Poseidon  (Xeptune) 
bestowed  immortality  on  Taphian,  and 
confined  the  gift  in  a  golden  lock  of 
hair.  His  daughter  cut  off  the  lock, 
and  the  gift  was  lost.  This  seems  vei-y 
like  the  Bible  tale  of  Samson  and 
Delilah.     {See  Elecampane.) 

Immu'ring  (Latin).  Burj-ing  in  a 
wall.  The  Vestal  virgins  among  the 
Romans,  and  the  nuns  among  the 
Roman  Catholics,  who  broke  their 
vows  of  chastity,  were  buried  in  a 
niche  sufficiently  large  to  contain  their 
body  with  a  small  pittance  of  bread  and 
water.  The  sentence  of  immuring  was 
Yade  in  paee,  or  more  correctlj',  Vudc  in 
pacem  (Go  into  peace — i.e.  eternal  rest). 
Home  j-ears  ago  a  skeleton,  believed  to 
be  the  remains  of  an  immured  nun, 
was  discovered  in  the  walls  of  Colding- 
ham  Abbey. 


The  immuring  of  Constance,  a  nxm 
who  had  broken  her  vows,  forms  a 
leading  incident  in  Scott's  poem  of 
Mann  ion. 

Im'ogen.  Daughter  of  Cymbeline, 
the  "  most  tender  and  artless  of  all 
Shakespeare's  characters."    (Vi/nibeline.) 

Imoglne.  The  lady  who  broke  her 
vow  and  was  carried  off  by  the  ghost 
of  her  former  lover,  in  the  ballad  of 
Alonzo  the  Brave,  by  Matthew  Gregory 
Lewis,  generally  called  Monk  Lewis. 

"  Alonzo  the  lirave  was  the  name  of  the  knight. 
And  the  maiden's  the  fair  Imogine." 

Imp  (Anglo-Saxon).  A  graft ;  whence 
also  a  child  ;  as,  "You  little  imp."_  In 
hawking,  "to  imp  a  feather"  is  to 
engraft  or  add  a  new  feather  for  a 
broken  one.  The  needles  employed  for 
the  purpose  were  called  "imping 
needles."  Lord  Cromwell,  writing  to 
Henry  VIII.,  speaks  of  "  that  noble 
imp  your  son." 

"  Let  us  I  ray  for  .  .  .  the  king's  most  excellent 
majesty  and  "for  .  .  .  his  heloved  son  Edward, 
our  iMince,  that  most  angelic  \m\>."—i'athwuy  to 
Prayer. 

Imp  of  Darkness  {An).  Milton 
calls  the  seriient  "  tittest  imp  of  fraud." 
[I'avadise  Lost,  ix.  89.) 

Impana'tion.  The  dogma  of  Luther 
that  the  body  and  soul  of  Christ  are 
infused  into  the  eucharistic  elements 
after  consecration :  and  that  the  bread 
and  wine  are  united  with  the  body  and 
soul  of  Christ  in  much  the  same  way  as 
the  body  and  soul  of  man  are  united. 
The  word  meoMS  putting  into  the  bread. 

Impanna'ta.  The  Madonna  del 
Iinpannata,  by  Raphael,  takes  its  dis- 
tinctive name  from  the  oiled  paper 
window  in  the  background.  (Italian, 
impannata,  oiled  paper.) 

Impar    Congressus    Achilli.     No 

match  for  Achilles  ;  the  combatants 
were  not  equally  matched.  Said  of 
Troilus.     {Virgil :  jEneid,  i.  475.) 

Imperial  {A)t).  A  tuft  of  hair  on 
the  chin,  all  the  rest  of  the  beard  and 
all  the  whiskers  being  -shaved  off.  So 
called  from  the  Emperor  Napoleon  III., 
who  set  the  fashion. 

Imperium  in  Imperio.  A  govern- 
ment independent  of  the  general  author- 
ised government. 

Impertinence  (4  syl.).  A  legal  term 
meaning  matter  introduced  into  an  affi- 
davit, etc.,  not  pertinent  to  the  case. 

Impon'derables  (Latin,  things  with- 
out  Height).      Heat,    Mght,    electricity, 


Imposition 


KO 


In  for  It 


aucl  magnetism  were,  it  was  at  one 
time  supposed,  the  phenomena  of  im- 
ponderable substances ;  that  of  heat 
was  called  cnloric.  This  theory  is  now 
exploded,  but  the  hj-pothetical  etlier  is 
without  appreciable  weight. 

Imposition.  A  task  given  as  a 
punishment.  Of  course  the  word  is 
taken  from  the  verb  inipasc,  as  the  task 
is  imposed.  The  term  is  common  in 
schools,  colleges,  and  universities.  In 
the  sense  of  a  decepitoH  it  means  to 
"put  a  trick  on  a  person,"  hence,  the 
expressions  "  to  put  on  one,"  "  to  lay  it 
on  thick,"  etc. 

Imposition  of  Hands.  The  bi^liop, 
laying  his  hand  on  persons  confirmed  or 
or  lained.     (Acts  vi.,  viii.,  xix.) 

Impossibilities.    Latin  phrases: 

.lOtJi  0  K'ln  dc-.ill  a  V. 
Ale  las  H'5:i\ 
J^atfirem  la\  are. 
Puinl  -e  aniliiis. 
In  asiiio  lanani. 

English  phrases : 

Gatberins  !,Tai>es  fnnii  thistles. 
Fi'ti'liiii^'  water  in  a  sieve 
Wasliirr,-a  lilar-kaiii..<.r  white. 
('atcliiMu,'  wind  ill  cahLage  nets. 
Flavinu'  crls  l.v  tlie  tnil. 
.^Ial<in-,'  tlii-esenf  clialk. 
S.(iianiij,'  ilie  circle. 
Tiirnin-,'  l)ase  metal  into  fc'Dlil. 
Tlie  elixir  iif  life. 

JIakin'-,'  a  silk  piirse  of  a  sow's  ear. 
(And  liiindrccH  more.) 

Impropriation.  Profit.s  of  eccle- 
siastical property  in  the  hands  f)f  a  lay- 
man. Appropriation  is  when  the  profits 
of  a  benefice  are  in  the  hands  of  a  college. 

Impro'priator.  A  layman  who  has 
churclj  lands  (jr  ecclesiastical  preferment. 
(Latin,  iu-proprius,  belonging  to.) 

Improve  the  Occasion (71^).  Todraw 
a  moral  lesson  from  some  event  which 
lias  occurred.     In  French,  "  Pro fi tons  de 

I'oa'asioiK^' 

Improvisators.  Persons  who  utter 
verses  impromptu.  The  art  was  in- 
troduced by  Petrarch,  and  is  still  a 
favourite  amusement  of  the  Italians. 
The  most  celebrated  arc  : 

Ac(:o\.7\  ( Bernardo),  of  Arezzo,  ctilled  the"  Unico 

Areti'no"  (Uia-ljas). 
AXTONiANO  (Silvln).    Eii-'hteenth  centiirv. 
AQin.AXO  (Semfi'tin),  of  Acjuila  (Utifi-1500). 
BvNDRTTiyt.     (See  IMPROVISATIIIX.) 

Beuoxicius  (P../.}.  who  could  convert  exteni- 
liore,  into  Greek  or  Latin  verse,  a  Dutch 
newspaper  or  anything  else  (died  lG7fii. 

CHiiisTOFoito,  surnained  Altissimo,  an  Italian 
(UU). 

ronil.LA.     (f!ee  IMPUOVISATRIX.) 

GlAXXi  (Friti)cis).  An  Italian, made  imi>erial  poet 
by  Napoleon,  whose  victories  he  celebrated  in 
vi-rse  ti;.vj-l.s'j4). 

.lEHAX  (.V;/)).     (.See  iMPnOVISATRTX.) 

KARsrnix  CAiina  Louisa').  (.Sf«  Improvisatuix.) 
JiAKOXE  (Andreas).    An  Italian  (Ur4-15'.'7). 


.MKTAKTASio  IP.  A.  n.  B.),   of    Assisi,  who    de- 
veloped, at  the  nue  of  ten.  a  ;,'reat  talent  for 
exteiiiporisinN'  in  \  erse  (HHw-ITnl"). 
rKRKKTTi  (Heriitii-(liiiii).  iif  .Sienna,  whu  received 
a  laiirid  crown  in  the  capital,  aw  honour  con- 
ferred only  iin  I'etnirch  and  Tasso  ( liwi-i:47i. 
QlKRNo  [(',imilli<).    An  Italian  fUro-Iji'H). 
Itossi.     Ii.bc:ided  at  Naples  in  Ki*. 
SKRAKINo.     (Sre  abiirr,  AqI  ll.AXO.) 
SKsrixi  (ISartiiUimen).    An  Italian  Oiled  1823). 
Soiiicct  Cl'">>im(iaii\  of  Tuscany  (ITiW-ls-TJ  .    His 
Jiatth  (>/   Chniles  I.,  rtealh  of  Ma  ii  Qiieni   <>] 
Scr'.s,  aiid  Fall  of  Miesolonyhi,  are  very  cele- 
brated. 
TaDIIKI  (ItOSa).     (.Sff  I.MPUOVISATRIX.') 
Zicco  (Marco  Antonio  ,  of  Veroim  (died  17C|1. 

•.•  To  these  add  Ciccioni,  liindoci-i.  the  bruilicrs 
ricrc  of  Hcdiand,  Wolf  of  AllO.ia.  Lansren- 
schwarz  of  (Jennnny,  Eur-'i^ne  d'-  rnidel  of 
Frame,  and  our  own  Thomas  Hood  (17iK-l)jL-i'. 

Improvis'atrix  or  Improvisatrico. 

The  most  ftimoiis  improvi.-^atrices  or 
female  improvisators  are : 

Maria  Machai.f.'xa  Mouf.i.i.i  Fkrxaxdkz.  snr- 
nanied  the  Olympic  Corilla.  crowned  at  IJon.e 
for  imi>rovisalion  (I74o-lwio). 

Tkuk'.sa  Bandktti'xi  (17«:»-*). 

IlOSA  Tadiiki  (IsOI-'). 

SKiXORA  Mazzki.  the  most  talented  of  all. 

Nun  JRIIAX,  of  Ben»Hl  (d.  liii.i).  She  was  the 
inventor  of  the  Otto  of  Roses. 

AXXA  I.oii.sA  Karciiix,  a  German  (17i.'-I7iil.) 

In  Csena  Dom'ini.  A  pnpal  bull, 
containing  a  collection  of  extracts  from 
diflFerent  constitutions  of  the  popes,  with 
anathema.s  against  those  who  violate 
them ;  so  called  from  the  word.s  with 
which  it  commences. 

In  Commen'dam  (Latin).  Tlie  hold- 
ing of  church  jirefcnnent  for  .i  time,  on 
the  recommendation  of  the  ("rown,  till 
a  suitable  per.son  can  be  provided.  Tlius 
a  clergyman  wlio  lias  been  elevated  to 
the  bench  retains  for  a  time  his  "living" 
ill  coiiiiiii'iiddiii. 

In  Esse  (Latin).  In  actual  exist- 
ence. Thus  a  child  liriiiy  is  "  in  e.s.se," 
but  before  birth  is  only  "  in  posse." 

In  Exten'so  (Latin).  At  full  length, 
word  for  word,  without  abridgment. 

In  Extremis.  At  the  very  point  of 
death.     "  In  nrtivv.lo  nwrti.s." 

In  Fi'erL  In  the  course  of  accom- 
plishment ;  on  the  way. 

In  Flagrante  Delicto.  Eed-handed ; 
in  the  very  fact.  "  //  a  ete  pris  en 
Jteujrant  dHit,"^  i.r.  "  Siir  tcfait.'" 

In  for  a  Penny  in  for  a  Pound. 

I  may  as  well  "  be  htnig  for  a  sheep  as  a 
lamb."  If  the  puni-shment  is  the  same, 
then  it  is  worth  the  risk  to  commit  the 
offence  which  brings  the  greatest  profit. 

In  for  It.  About  "  to  catch  it ;  "  on 
the  point  of  being  in  trouble. 

'•  you  are  in  for  it,  T  can  toll  you.  I  would  not 
stand  in  your  sho-.-s  for  something." 


In  Forma 


fiol 


Inch 


In  Forma  Pau'peris.  A  person 
AvJio  will  swear  he  is  not  worth  £5  has 
writs,  etc.,  fjiatis,  and  is  supplied  gra- 
tuitously with  attorney  and  counsel 
(Henry' VII.,  c.  12). 

In  Gremio  Legis.  Under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  law. 

In  Limine  (Latin)  At  the  outset, 
at  the  throsliold. 

In  Loco  Parentis.  One  who  stands 
in  a  parent's  place. 

In  Medias  Res.  lu  the  middle  of 
the  subject.  In  novels  and  ejiic  poetry, 
the  autlior  generally  begins  with  some 
catastrophe,  which  is  explained  as  the 
tale  unfolds.  In  historj',  on  the  other 
hand,  the  author  begins  ub  oro. 

In  Memoriam.    In  memory  of. 

In  Nubibus.  In  the  clouds  ;  not  in 
actual  existence  ;  in  contemplation. 

In    Partibus    \L>fi(Mini)i].      In    a 

noil -Christian  countiy.  A  "  bishoi)  in 
p(irti/ji{s  "  means  a  bishop  in  any 
country.  Christian  or  otlierwise,  wliose 
title  is  from  some  old  see  which  has 
fallen  away  from  the  Catliolic  faith. 
Ihus,  in  England,  the  Bishop  of  Cisa- 
mus,  the  Bishop  of  Emmaus,  the  Bishop 
of  Amycla,  are  bishops  in  pariibus.  Dr. 
Wiseman  was  Bishoj)  of  Melipotamus 
before  he  was  Archbishop  of  West- 
minster. A  bishop  ill  piirtibiis  does  not 
"lueau  a  bishop  in  a  land  of  infidels  ;  he 
Miay  be  so,  but  this  Avould  not  make  him 
a  bishop  in  partibus. 

In  Perpet'uam  (Latin).  In  per- 
petuity, for  ever. 

In  Petto  (Italian).  Held  in  reserve, 
kept  back,  something  done  privately, 
and  not  announced  to  the  general  public. 
{Ill  pec' tore  [Latin],  in  the  breast.) 

Ctirdiiials  in  petto.  Cardinals  about 
to  be  elected,  but  not  yet  publicly  an- 
nounced. Their  names  are  in  pcciorc 
(of  the  Pope). 

In  Posse  (Latin).  What  may  be 
considered  probable,  but  has  not  j'et  any 
real  existence. 

In  Propria  Persona  (Latin).  Per- 
sonally, and  Lot  by  deputy  or  agents. 

In  Prospcct'u  (Latin).  What  is 
intended  or  in  contemplation  to  be  done 
at  some  future  time. 

In  Re  (Latin).  In  the  matter  of  ;  on 
the  subject  of;  as//;  ;r  Jones  v.  Robin- 
son. But  (■;*  rem,  against  the  property 
or  thing  referred  to. 


In  Si'tu  (Latin).  In  its  original 
place. 

In  Stat'u  Quo  or  In  stat'n  quo  ante 
(Latin).  In  the  condition  things  were 
before  the  change  took  place.  Tims, 
two  nations  arming  for  war  may  agree 
to  lay  down^anns  on  condition  that  all 
things  be  restored  to  the  same  state  as 
tliey  were  before  they  took  up  arms. 

In  Terro'rem  (Latin).  As  a  warn- 
ing, to  deter  others  by  terrifying  them. 

In  To'to  (Latin).  Entirely,  alto- 
gether. 

In  Vac'uo  (Latin).  In  a  vacuum — 
i.e.  in  a  space  from  which,  nominally 
altogether,  and  really  almost,  all  the 
air  has  been  taken  away. 

In-and-In.  A  game  with  four  dice, 
once  extremely  common,  and  frequently 
alluded  to.  "  In  "  is  a  throw  of  doubles, 
"in-and-in  "  a  throw  of  double  doubles, 
which  sweeps  the  board. 

"  I  li;ive  seon  three  iiersons  sit  down  .it  twolve- 
ixwuiv  iii-(iti(l-iii,  ami  (Mi.-h  ilniw  4os.  a-ini'rc.'  — 
Sicbr  A,c/.r-/. 

Ins  and  Outs  of  the  Matter  (T/ir). 
All  the  details,  both  direct  and  indirect. 

"If  vnu  want  to  know  the  ins  and  nuts  of  tho 
Yankees  ....  I  know  all  their  roiiits,  shaie, 
make,  and  bveeil."—llnliburtuu. 

V  Sometimes  the  "  Ins  "  means  those 
in  office,  and  the  "Outs"  those  out  of 
office,  or  in  Opposition. 

Inau'gurate  (4  syl.)  means  to  be  led 
in  l)y  augurs.  The  Eonian  augurs  met 
at  their  college  doors  the  high  officials 
about  to  be  invested,  and  led  them  up  to 
the  altar  ;  hence  to  install. 

Inca.  A  king  or  royal  prince  of  the 
ancient  Peruvians.  The  empire  of  the 
Incas  was  founded  by  Manco  Capac. 

"The  Inra  was  a  war-cliief,  eleeted  li.v  the 
Conncil  to  c-arrv  (uU  its  decisinn.'— /innicm  ;  The 
.Amii-iciii  Hiii-v  i.'o.Uh  .iiiHiii-ini  Tiibi.^),  part  i. 
chap.  ii.  I'.  -11. 

Incanta'tion.  A  sinr/inr/  ar/ainsf, 
that  is,  singing  a  set  fonn  of  Avords  in 
order  to  bring  Divine  wrath  upon  persons 
or  nations. 

Incarnadine  (7'o).  To  make  red. 
(Latin,  iiicarndtiis  color,  carnation). 

"  No,  this  my  hand  will  rather 
The  multitudinous  sea  incarnadine, 
Makiub'  the  ^-reen— one  red." 

Shakespeare :  Macbeth,  ii.  i'. 

Inch  of  Candle  (Sold  hj).  A  sale  by 
auction.  Instead  of  the  hammer  of  the 
auctioneer  conchiding  the  bids,  the 
purchaser  was  the  last  bidder  before  the 
candle  went  out.    Another  plan  is  to 


Inch Cape 


652 


Indian 


stick  a  pin  in  a  candle,  and  when  the 
pin  drops  down,  the  sale  of  the  article 
is  concluded. 
"  Down  wvT^  tumbled  miracle  and  martyr, 
rut  up  lU  lots,  auil  sold  liy  incb  of  caudle." 
I'cter  J'indar  :  Lyric  Odes,  xiii. 

Inchcape  Rock.  Twelve  miles 
from  laud,  iu  the  German  Sea.  It  is 
dangerous  for  navigators,  and  therefore 
the  abbot  of  Aberbrothok  fixed  a  bell  on 
a  Hoat,  which  gave  notice  to  sailors  of 
its  whereabouts.  Ralph  the  Rover,  a  sea 
pirate,  cut  the  bell  from  the  float,  and 
was  wrecked  on  his  return  home  on  the 
very  rock.  Southey  has  a  ballad  on  the 
subject. 

Precisely  the  same  tale  is  told  of  St. 
Goven's  bell,  in  Pembrokeshire.  In  the 
chapel  was  a  silver  bell,  which  was  stolen 
one  summer  evening  by  pirates,  but  no 
sooner  had  the  boat  put  to  sea  than  all 
the  crew  was  wrecked.  The  silver  bell 
was  earned  by  sea-nymphs  to  the  brink 
of  a  well,  and  whenever  the  stone  of 
that  well  is  struck  the  bell  is  heard  to 
moan. 

N.B.     Inch  or  lunLs  means  inland. 

Incog.  — ?.^.  Incog'nito  (Italian). 
Under  an  assumed  name  or  title.  When 
a  royal  person  travels,  and  does  not  wish 
to  be  treated  with  royal  ceremony,  he 
assumes  some  inferior  title  for  the  nonce, 
and  travels  incog. 

Incorruptible  (77(f).  Robespierre 
(17ot-1794).  Robert  Walpole  says  that 
William  Shijipen  was  the  only  man  he 
knew  who  was  proof  against  a  bribe. 

"Even  tbe  'Incorruptible'  hirtiself  fell  from  bis 
oritjinal  ideal."— A'hieteenfft  Century,  August,  18a3, 
p.  •27-2. 

In'cubus.  A  nightmare,  anything 
that  weighs  heavily  on  the  mind.  At 
one  time  supposed  to  consort  with  women 
in  their  sleep.     (Latin,  in  cubo,  to  lie  on.) 

"  Merlin  was  the  son  of  no  mortal  father,  but  of 
an  Inculjus  .one  of  a  class  of  lieiuKs  not  absolutely 
wicked,  but  far  from  good,  who  inhabit  the 
regions  of  tlie  vl\v:' —But finch:  Age  of  Chivalry, 
part  i.  chap.  iii.  p,  50. 

Indenture.  A  written  contract ;  so 
called  because  the  skui  on  which  it  was 
written  in  duplicate  was  divided  with 
an  indented  edge,  to  fit  into  each  other. 

Indepen'dence.  The  Declaration  of 
Ii/dejM/ideiicc.  A  declaration  made  July 
4th,  1776,  by  the  American  States,  de- 
claring the  colonies  free  and  indepen- 
dent, absolved  from  all  allegiance  to 
Great  Britain. 

Independence  Day  (July  4th).  So 
called  in  the  United  States  of  America. 
(6Ve  above.) 


Indepen'dents.  Certain  Dissenters 
are  so  called,  whose  fundamental  prin- 
ciple is  that  every  congregation  is  an 
independent  church,  and  has  a  right  to 
choose  its  own  minister  and  make  its 
own  laws. 

Index  (T/ic).  The  "  Roman  Index  " 
contains  both  the  Judex  Libiorinn  I'lO- 
hibitorxm  and  the  Index  ExpurgalOiiiin. 
The  former  contains  a  list  of  such  books 
as  are  absolutely  forbidden  to  be  read 
by  faithful  Catholics.  The  latter  con- 
tains such  books  as  are  forbidden  till 
certain  parts  are  omitted  or  amended. 
The  lists  are  made  out  by  a  board  of 
cardinals  called  the  "Congregation  of 
the  Index."  Of  course,  it  is  wholly 
impossible  to  keep  pace  with  the  present 
issue  of  books ;  but,  besides  the  Pro- 
testant Bibles,  and  the  works  of  such 
lieretics  as  Arius  and  Calvin,  we  find  iu 
the  lists  the  following  well-knowu 
names : — 

Of  English  authors  :  Addison,  Bacon, 
Gibbon,  Goldsmith,  Hallam,  Locke,  J. 
S.  Mill,  Milton,  Robertson,  Archbishop 
Whately,  etc.,  and  even  some  children's 
tales. 

Of  French  authors :  Amauld,  Calvin, 
Descartes,  Fenelon,  I'Abbc  Fleury,  Ma't- 
branche,  Voltaire,  etc. 

Of  Italian  authors :  Dante,  Guicciar- 
dini,  Sismondi,  etc. 

Of  German  authors  :  Kant,  Luther, 
etc. 

"Under  the  auspices  of  Cardinal  Caraflfa  f  i  art 
iv.),  the  Inciuinition  was  introdiued  into  Italy 
(liHS).  and  exerted  the  utmost  vigilance  aiul  se- 
verity in  crushing  out  the  new  faith,  and  the 
index  of  prohibited  books  was  establislied."— 
Fisher :  I'nirer^al  History,  part  iii.  period  ii.  chap, 
iv.  p.  41J. 

India  Ink  or  Chinese  ink.  So  called 
because  it  was  first  brought  from  China. 
It  is  now  made  at  home  of  lampblack 
and  glue. 

India  Paper.  A  printing  -  impcr 
made  in  China  and  Japan  from  veget- 
able fibre,  and  used  for  taking  ofE  the 
finest  proofs  of  engraved  plates.  Pro- 
nounce Indl'  paper. 

India  Proof.  The  proof  of  an  en- 
graving on  India  paper,  before  lettering. 

Indian  Arrowroot.  The  root  which 
the  Indians  apply  to  aiTOW-wounds  to 
neutralise  the  venom  of  the  arrow. 
They  mash  the  meal,  and  apply  it  as  a 
poultice.     {Miller.) 

Indian  Drug  (r/(r).     Tobacco. 

"Hisbr'-ath  compcninded  nf  strouir  English  beere, 
And  th'  Indian  drug,  would  siilfer  none  come 
neere." 

Taylor,  the  Water  Poet  (103O). 


Indian 


653 


Infant 


Indian  File  (/«).  One  by  one.  The 
Americau  Indians,  when  they  go  on  an 
expedition,  march  one  by  one.  The  one 
behind  carefully  steps  in  the  footimnts 
of  the  one  before,  and  the  last  man  of 
the  file  obliterates  the  footprints.  Thus, 
neither  the  track  nor  the  number  of  in- 
vaders can  be  traced. 

"Each  man  followed  his  leader  in  Indian  file." 
— Ciiptain  Bariiaby :  On  Horseback  through  Aula 
Minor. 

Indian  Red.  Eed  haematite  (per- 
oxide of  iron),  found  abundantly  in  the 
Forest  of  Dean,  Gloucestershire.  It  is 
of  a  deep,  lakey  hue,  used  for  flesh 
tints. 

The  Persian  Red,  which  is  of  a  darker 
hue  with  a  sparkling  lustre,  is  imported 
from  the  island  of  Ormuz  in  the  Persian 
Gulf. 

The  Romans  obtained  this  pigment 
from  the  island  of  Elba.  '■'■  Insulam 
e.rhanstis  chalyhniii  gcncrosa  mctallis.^'' 
(Ovid.) 

Indian  Summer  (T/ic).  The  au- 
tumnal summer ;  generally  the  finest 
and  mildest  part  of  the  whole  year, 
especially  in  North  America. 

"Tlie  (jililing  of  the  Indian  summer  mellowed 
the  iiastiues  far  and  wide.  The  russet  woods 
stood  ripe  to  he  stript,  Ijut  were  yet  full  of  leaf. 
The  purple  of  heath-bloom,  faded  hut  not 
withered,  tinged  the  hills.  .  .  Fieldhead  gardens 
liore  the  seal  of  gentle  decay  ;  .  .  .  its  time  of 
flowers  and  even  of  fruit  was  over."— C  Bronte: 
tthirhy,  chap,  xxvii. 

Indians.  Americcm  Indians.  When 
Columbus  landed  at  Cat  Island,  he 
thought  that  he  had  landed  on  one  of 
the  Indian  islands,  and  iu  this  belief 
gave  the  natives  the  name  of  Indians. 

India  proper  is  so  named  from  Indus 
(the  river),  in  Sanskrit  Sind/tii,  in  Persic 
Jfind,  whence  the  Greek  Hindus.  Hin- 
dustan is  the  ta)i  or  "country"  of  the 
river  Hindus. 

Indiarubber.  A  substance  made 
from  the  sap  of  various  troijical  plants, 
and  used  for  erasing  pencil  marks,  and 
many  other  purposes.  Pronouuce  Indi'  - 
rubber. 

"  He  was  a  man  with  an  indiarubber  coat  on, 
indiarubber  shoes,  an  indiarubber  cap,  and  in 
bis  pocket  an  indiaruliher  purse,  and  not  a  cent 
in  h."—C!/c!op,-E<iia  nf  American  Biography  (_C'harlcs 
Goodyciir),  vol.  ii.  p.  (i84. 

Individualists.  Individualists  hold 
that  as  little  as  possible  should  be  done 
for  its  subjects  by  the  State,  as  much  as 
possible  being  left  to  free  individual 
initiative. 

Socialism  tends  to  treat  the  individual 
as  merely  a  part  of  the  State,  holding 
his  possessions  (if  any)  simply  by  its 
permission,  while  Individualism  regards 


the  state  as  a  collection  of  separate 
units,  with  rights  of  life  and  property 
independently,  which  the  State  does  not 
confer  but  merely  guarantees. 

Extreme  individualists  hold  that  all 
government  is  an  evil,  though  it  may  be 
a  necessary  evil,  and  the  "anarchists" 
profess  the  extremest  form  of  the 
creed. 

"  Individualism  rests  on  the  principle  that  a 
man  shall  bo  his  own  nnislvr.'— Draper :  Conflict 
between  Religion  and  Science,  chap.  xi.  p.  "'J5. 

Indoors.  In  the  house.  Virgil  makes 
Dido  sit  "  in  forbiis  divcc.''^  {^Eneid,  i. 
505.) 

Induc'tion  (Latin,  //te  act  of  leading 
in).  When  a  clergyman  is  inducted  to 
a  living  he  is  led  to  the  church  door, 
and  the  ring  which  forms  the  handle  is 
jjlaced  in  his  hand.  The  door  being 
opened,  he  is  next  led  into  the  church, 
and  the  fact  is  announced  to  the  parish 
by  tolling  the  bell. 

Indul'gence  (3  syl.),  in  the  Eoman 
Catliolic  Church,  is  the  entire  or  partial 
remission  of  jjunishment  due  to  sin 
either  in  this  world  or  in  purgatory. 
It  is  supposed  that  the  Church  is  the 
bank  of  the  infinite  merits  of  Christ,  and 
can  give  such  indulgences  like  cheques 
on  a  bank.     (Latin,  indidgentta.) 

Inertia.  That  want  of  power  in 
matter  to  change  its  state  either  from 
rest  to  motion,  or  from  motion  to  rest. 
Kepler  calls  it  Vis  inertiec.  {Ars  in 
Latin  is  the  Greek  ar'cte,  power  or  in- 
herent force  ;  In -ars  is  the  absence  of 
this  power.) 

Inexorable  Logic  of  Facts  {T/ie). 
This  was  Mazziui's  happy  expression : 
"  JVe/la  genesi  dvi  fatti  la  logica  e  in- 
esarabilc." 

Infallibility  (of  the  Church  of  Rome) 
is  the  doctrine  that  the  Church  of  Rome 
cannot  at  any  time  cease  to  be  orthodox 
in  her  doctrine,  and  that  what  she  de- 
clares ex  cathedra  is  substantially  true. 
The  doctrine  is  based  on  the  Divine  pro- 
mise to  the  discij)les,  "  Howbeit  when 
the  Spirit  of  Truth  is  come,  he  will  guide 
you  into  all  truth  "  (John  xvi.  13). 

V  The  dogma  of  the  "Infallibility  of 
the  Pope  "  was  decreed  by  the  Vatican 
Council  in  1870. 

In'famous    means    not    allowed  to 

speak    or    give   witness   in   a  court  of 

justice.  (Latin,  in,  negative  fari,  to 
speak  ;  Greek,  pitemi  or  phami.) 

Infant.  Used  as  a  synonym  of 
"childe,"  meaning  a  knight  or  squire; 


Infant 


654 


Ink-pot 


as,  "  Childe  Harold."  Kiug  Arthur  is 
so  called.  (See  also  Spotfter :  Faerie 
Qncoie,  book  ii.  cauto  viii.  56.) 

Infant  of  Lubeck.  Christian  Henry 
Heiueekeu  (172 1 -1725).  At  one  year 
old  ho  know  the  chief  events  of  the 
Pentateuch  ;  at  thii'teeu  mouths  he  knew 
the  history  of  the  Old  Testament ;  at 
fourteen  months  he  knew  the  history  of 
the  New  Testament ;  at  two  and  a  half 
years  he  could  answer  any  ordinary  ques- 
tion of  history  or  geography  ;  at  three 
years  he  knew  well  both  French  and 
Latin.  At  leasts  so  says  Schoneich,  his 
preceptor. 

"  Another  of  tliejo  pitiable  prodigies  was  .lolin 
PbiliiU)  Baratier,  of  Scliwahack,  near  N(^l•nlle^^', 
iHirn  Ibe  same  year  as  tlie  Luheck  prodi^'y  (17l'1- 
1740  .  At  the  a(,'e  of  live  he  knew  Greek.  Latin, 
aud  French,  besides  his  n;Uiv;-  (German,  At  nine 
he  knew  Hebrew  aud  ('halilee,  ainl  oouhl  eonveit 
(iernian  into  L.-itin.  At  liiirtern  lie  .-uulci  trans- 
late Helirew  inti>  Krencli  nr  Krciuii  iiiiu  HeNrew. 
His  life  was  wriilni  by  l-'nnnry,  ami  Ins  name 
appears  in  most  lungrapliieaUlictiouai  ie.-." 

Infanta.  Any  princess  of  the  blood 
royal,  exrept  an  heiress  of  the  crown,  is 
so  called  in  Siiaiu  and  Portugal. 

Infante  (3  syl.).  All  the  sons  of  the 
sovereigns  of  Spain  and  Portugal  bear 
this  title,  except  the  crown  prince,  who 
is  called  in  Sjiain  the  Piiuce  of  Astu'rias. 
In  the  Middle  Ages  the  word  "  childe  " 
was  used  as  a  title  of  honour  in  England, 
France,  ami  Geitnany ;  hence  Childe 
Harold,  Childe- ric,  Chiklo-bert,  etc. 

Infantry.  Foot  soldiers.  Said  to  be 
lirst  ajnilied  to  a  bodj'  of,  men  collected 
by  the  Lifaiiic  or  heir-apimrent  of  Spain 
for  the  purpose  of  rescuing  his  father 
from  the  Moors.  The  success  of  the 
attempt  rendered  the  corps  popular. 
(Spanish,  i»f<nitrrta  ;  Italian,  Juiitcria  ; 
funic  means  a  servant.) 

Infernal  Column.  So  the  corps 
of  Latour  d'Auvergne  was  called,  from 
its  terrible  charges   with   the   bayonet. 

(1743-1800.) 

Infer'no.  We  have  Dante's  notion 
of  the  iuferual  regions  in  his  Inferno  ; 
Homer's  in  the  Oih/sscji,  book  xi.  ;  Vir- 
gil's in  the  ^-Ei/rid,  book  vi.  ;  Spenser's 
in  the  Faerie  Qiieene,  book  ii.  canto  7 ; 
Ariosto's  in  the  Orlando  Furio'so,  book 
xvii.  ;  Tasso's  in  Jerusalem  Behvercd, 
book  iv.  ;  Milton's  in  Faradise  Lost  ; 
Fenelon's  in  Teleniaqu-e,  book  xvjii. ;  and 
Beckford's  in  his  romance  of  Vathek. 

Infra  Dig.,  i.e.  Dignita'tem.    Not 

in  accordance  with  one's  position  aud 
character.     (Latin.) 


Infralapsa'rians.  Those  who  be- 
lieve that  election  and  predestination 
are  subsequent  to  the  Fall.  The  "  Supra- 
lapsarian  ' '  believes  that  election  and 
jiredestination  were  in  the  eternal 
counsels  of  God  even  before  the  creation 
of  Adam.  {Infra,  after ;  lapsus,  tlio 
fall ;  supra,  before  ;  lapsus,  the  fall.) 

Ingle  {TIte).  The  recess  with  benches 
in  old-fashioned  fireplaces,  the  fire. 

"  Sit  Ihee  by  the  ingle  when 

The  .sear  fayyot  lilazes  liri.trht." 

Kiuts  :  t'linctj,  stanza  1. 

Ingoldsby.  The  Kev.  Richard  Harris 
Barham,  author  of  Imjoldshij  Leyends. 
(1788-1S15.) 

Ingrain  Colours.  Colours  dyed  in 
the  wool  or  raw  material  before  manu- 
facture. In  French,  trndre  en  lauie. 
Such  colours  arc  the  most  dui-able.  We 
speak  of  "a  rogue  ingrain,"  meaning 
one  hopelessly  bad.  (In  the  grain,  thtit 
is,  in  the  texture.) 

"'Tis  incrain,  sir;  'twill  endure  wind  and 
weather."— .S/i<(A(ti;.fii)r;  Tirclflh  .\i<iht,  \.  :,. 

Ingulph's  "Croyland   Chronicle." 

Proved  to  be  a  forgerj'  by  II.  J.  liiley  in 
the  Are/ucoloffieal  Journal,  18()2.  He 
dates  the  forgery  between  1393  aud 
1415,  and  attributes  it  to  Prior  Richard 
of  Croyland  and  Sergeant  William 
Ludyugton. 

Injunction.  A  writ  forbidding  a 
person  to  encroach  on  another's  privi- 
leges ;  as,  to  sell  a  book  which  is  only 
a  colourable  coj)y  of  another  author's 
book ;  or  to  violate  a  jiatent ;  or  to 
lierform  a  play  based  on  a  novel  with- 
out permission  of  the  novelist ;  or  to 
publish  a  book  the  rights  of  which  are 
reserved.  luj  unctions  are  of  two  sorts — 
temporary  and  perpetual.  The  lirst  is 
limited  "till  the  coining  on  of  the  de- 
fendant's answer";  the  latter  is  based 
on  the  merits  of  the  case,  and  is  of  per- 
jjetual  force. 

Ink.  Pancirollus  says  the  emperors 
used  a  fluid  for  writing  called  cneans- 
tuni.  (Italian,  inehwsiru ;  French,  mere ; 
Dutch,  inkt.) 

Inliliorn  Terms.  This  jihraae,  once 
common,  might  be  revivetl  to  signify 
pedantic  exjiressions  which  smell  of  the 
lamp. 

V  Shakespeare  uses  the  phrase,  an 
"Inkhoru  mate  "    (1  Henry  ]'!.,  iii.  1). 

Ink-pot.  Sons  and  dauc/htcrs  of  (he 
ink-pot.  Those  who  maintain  them- 
selves by  writing  for  the  press.  {The 
Silver  JJoinino.) 


Inkle 


6. JO 


Instinct 


Inkle  and  Yar'ico.  The  hero  rnd 
heroiue  of  a  drama  so  called  by  George 
C'olmau.  The  story  is  from  the  8pec- 
trtoi\  Xo.  11.  lukle  is  a  young  English- 
maii  who  is  lost  iu  the  Spanish  main ; 
l;e  falls  in  love  with  Yarico,  an  Indian 
maiden,  whom  h3  lives  with  as  his  wife  ; 
but  no  sooner  does  he  hnd  a  vessel  to 
take  him  to  Barbadoes  than  he  sells  her 
for  a  slave. 

Inland  Navigation.  Francis  Eger- 
ton,  Duke  of  Bridgewater,  is  called 
the  Father  of  British  Inland  Xaviqation. 
(17'29-180;3.)  A  title  certainly  due  to 
James  Brindley  (171G-1772). 

Inn  (Anglo-Saxon).  Chamber  ;  ori- 
ginally applied  to  a  mansion,  like  the 
French  hotel.  Hence  Clifford's  Inn,  once 
the  mansion  of  Da  Clifford  ;  Lincoln's 
Inn,  the  mansion  of  the  Earls  of  Lin- 
coln ;  Gray's  Inn,  that  of  the  Lords 
Gray,  etc. 

"  Now,  wlipnas  Phoebus,  with  his  fiery  waine, 
Uuto  his  iunc  liewm  to  draw  ai>ace." 

iSpcnser :  Faerie  Qneene,  vi.  3. 

Inns  of  Court.  The  four  voluntary 
societies  which  have  the  exclusive  right 
of  calling  to  the  bar.  They  are  the 
Inner  Temple,  the  Middle  Temple, 
Lincoln's  Inn,  and  Gray's  Inn.  Each 
ii  governed  by  a  board  of  benchers. 

Innings,  in  cricket,  is  the  tuni  of  the 
team  to  be  bowled  to  by  their  oppo- 
nents. The  persons  who  "bat"  are 
having  tlieir  ••  innings  given  them  "  ; 
and  the  innings  of  an  individual  is  the 
time  he  holds  the  bat. 

A  good  iniiiiu/s.  One  in  which  the 
batsman  has  made  several  runs.  Figura- 
tivelj',  a  run  of  luck  or  business. 

He  lias  had  a  long  innings.  A  good 
long  run  of  luck.  A  term  in  cricket 
for  the  time  that  the  eleven  are  in,  or 
not  out  as  scouts. 

Innis  FodMa  [Island  of  Jjestingi,  an 
old  name  of  Ireland. 

'■  Loir^  liefiii-o  the  wcsteru  districts  of  Iititix 
Fudlila  hadauy  s 'ttled  niMie  ...  a  i>owei'ful  kiii^ 
ri'i  -lied  u^  er  this  pavt  of  the  sacre.l  island.  [Tlie 
kill',-  rofeiied  to  wa-  ('onuud.bi.  who  u-ave  liis 
ninie  to  tlie  iiro\  incoof  t'oiinaclit],"— if.  U.  I'atti: 
i\iiri/  Talcs  and  Fulk-Lorc.  pp.  3i»i,  31S. 

Innocent  (An).  An  idiot  or  bom 
fool.     (.See  Bexet.) 

'■  An  idiot,  or  line  otherwise  deficient  iu  intelleL-t. 
i?  raliel  an  innocent. "— r/-<=Hf;i ;  On  the  Stud//  of 
II  oi-di.  lecture  iii.  p.  yr. 

Innocents.  I'jast  of  the  Holy  luuo- 
ernls.  The  ■2Sth  Decembor.  to  commemo- 
rate Herod's  butchery  of  th?  children  of 
Bethlehem  under  two  years  eld,  -with 
the  design  of  cuttins  off  "the  infant  Jesus 
(Matt.  ii.  16.) 


Innnen'do.  An  implied  or  covert 
hint  of  blame.  It  is  a  law  term,  meaning 
the  person_  nodded  to  or  indirectly  re- 
ferred to  (Latin,  i/i-niio). 

"  Implying  or  sufrgestinK,  instead  of  statin? 
plainly,  often  increases  the  effect  of  what  is  in- 
tended to  Kive  pain  or  pleasure.  This  is  'innu- 
endo.' "—Bain :  Composition,  etc.  (Innaitido).  part  i. 
p.  'M. 

Inoc'ulate  (4  syl.)  is  to  jjut  in  an 
eye  (Latin,  in  ocnliis).  The  allusion  is 
to  a  plan  adopted  by  gardeners  who 
insert  the  "  ej-e  "  or  small  bud  of  a  supe- 
rior plant  into  the  stock  of  an  inferior 
one,  in  order  to  produce  flowers  or  fruits 
of  better  quality. 

In'ogene  or  Ig'noge  (3  syl.).  Wife 
of  Brute,  the  mythological  king  of 
Britain. 

'•  Thus  Brute  this  realnie  unto  his  rule  sulidew  1, 
.\nd  raiifiicil  loni.'  in  croat  felicity. 
Loved  of  his  friends,  ai'id  of  his  foes  eschowd. 
He  left  three  sons,  his  famous  projjeny, 
linrn  of  fayre  Inogene  of  Italy." 

Spenser:  Fueri^:  Queen e,  ii  10. 

Inquisition.  A  court  instituted  to 
inquire  into  offences  against  the  Roman 
Catholic  religion.  Fully  established  by 
Pope  Gregory  IX.  in  1235.  It  was  most 
active  in  Italy,  Spain,  and  Portugal. 
Those  found  guilty  were  handed  over  to 
the  secular  arm  to  be  dealt  with  accord- 
ing to  the  secular  laws  of  the  land. 
Suppressed  in  France  in  1772,  and  not 
finally  in  Spain  till  1834.  (Latin,  iu- 
qaixitio,  a  searching  into.) 

Insane  Root  (The).  Hendock.  It 
is  said  that  those  who  eat  hemlock  can 
see  subjective  things  as  objects.  Tlius, 
when  Banquo  had  encountered  the 
witches,  who  vanished  as  mysteriously 
as  they  appeared,  he  said  to  Macbeth, 
"  Were  such  things  [jT«////]  h??e,  .... 
or  have  we  eaten  the  insane  root,  that 
takes  the  reason  prisoner,"  so  that  our 
eyes  see  things  that  are  not.  (Macbeth, 
i.3.) 

?  Other  plants  '"take  the  reason 
prisoner,"  as  the  Prnna  insainr,  the 
''  ludian  nut,"  "  Hoary  nightshade.'' 

Inscription  of  a  Coin.  (See 
Lege.\d.) 

Insolence.  (Latin,  in-soleo.)  Un- 
usual conduct,  that  is,  not  according  to 
the  common  courtesies  of  social  Ufe. 

Inspired  Idiot  (77te).  Oliver  Gold- 
smith was  so  called  by  NValpole. 

Instinct.  Something  pricked  or 
punctured  into  one.  Dt.-idngni.Ji  is  of 
the  same  root,  and  means  to  prick  or 
^juncture  separately,  li.rtingiiish  means 
to  prick  or  puncture  out.    Iu  all  cases 


Institutes 


656 


Interdict 


the  allusion  is  to  marking  by  a  puncture. 
At  collejje  the  "  markers  "  at  the  chajsel 
doors  still  hold  a  pin  in  one  hand,  and 
prick  with  it  the  name  of  each  "  man  " 
who  enters.  The  word  is  used  to  ex- 
press a  natural  iinpulse  to  do  something ; 
an  inherent  habit. 

•'AltliouKli  reason  may  ...  lie  blended  with 
iiistiiiiT,  tlic  disiiiu-tidii  between  the  two  is  suffl- 
cientlv  prt-cise.  Uimsoii  oiilv  acts  iiiion  a  delliiite 
•and  ohi'ii  liiliorjously  iii-(4uired  knowled','e  of  the 
relation  lielween  means  and  ends."— liomiDies: 
Enriiiin^iudta  Ilriltiitnicu,  vol.  xiii.  p.  157  (ninth 
editiim). 

In'stitutes  (3syl.).  Elementary  law 
treatises,  as  the  Iiistittttci  of  Gains 
and  those  of  Florentius,  Callistriitus, 
Paulus,  Ulpian,  and  Marcian.  The 
Institutes  of  Justinian  were  com- 
piled by  Antoninus  Pius,  and  for  the 
most  part  are  mere  rechaujfecs  of  the 
jDreceding  ones,  giving  the  words  and 
opinions  of  the  respective  authors. 

Instructions  to    the   Conunittee. 

A  Parlitiineiitary  dodge  for  empowering 
a  Committee  of' the  House  to  do  what  a 
Committee  would  not  otherwise  be  em- 
powered to  do. 

An  '"Instruction"  must  be  supple- 
mentary and  auxiliary  to  the  Bill  under 
consideration. 

It  must  fall  within  the  general  scope 
and  framework  of  the  Bill  in  question. 

It  must  not  form  the  substance  of  a 
distinct  measure. 

Insu'bri.  The  district  of  Lombardy 
which  contained  Milan,  Como,  Pa'via, 
Lodi,  Xova'ra,  and  Vercelli. 

Insult.  To  leap  on  the  prostrate 
body  of  a  foe.    To  treat  with  contumely. 

Insulter.  One  who  leaps  upon  you 
or  against  j'ou.  Thus  Terence  .says, 
'^Insulta' re  fores  cal'c'ibus''\£unticfius,  ii. 
2,  54).  It  will  be  remembered  that  the 
priests  of  Baal,  to  show  their  indigna- 
tion against  their  gods,  "leaped  upon 
the  altar  which  they  had  made  "  (1 
Kings  xviii.  26).  Zephaniah  (L  9)  says 
that  God  will  punish  all  those  that  leap 
on  the  threshold."     (See  Desultory.) 

Intag'lio  (Italian) .  A  design  cut  in 
a  gem,  like  a  crest  or  initials  in  a  stamp. 
The  design  does  not  stand  out  in  relief, 
as  in  cain'eos,  but  is  hollowed  iu. 

Intellect.  The  power  of  reading 
meutallj- ;  hence  the  power  of  under- 
standing and  quickly  grasping  what  re- 
quires intelligence  and  thought.  (Latin, 
intus  lego,  I  read  within  me.) 

Intendance  Militaire.  Corps 
charge  de  tout  ee  ejui  concernc  l\idmi>iis- 
tration  ct  la  comj)atibilite  de  la  guerre. 


The  Intendants  Militaire  control  the 
accounts,  payments,  food,  dress,  en- 
campments, transport,  liospitals,  mar- 
ches, etc.,  of  the  army. 

Intentions.  Ilell  is  pared  uith good 
intentions.  In  Spanish  :  ^^  Jil  inferno  es 
bleno  de  buenas  tnteneiones.'"  Good  in- 
tentions without  corresponding  deeds 
are  self-accusers. 

Inter  Alia  (Latin).  Among  other 
thiugs  or  matters. 

Inter  Csesa  et  Por recta.    Out  of 

hand.  Many  things  maj'  occur  between 
the  cup  and  lip.  (iit'eCieero:  Ad  Attleum, 
V.  IS.)  Literallj-,  between  the  slaughter 
(ea-sa)  of  the  sacrificial  victim  and  its 
being  laid  (porrecta)  on  the  altar.  It  was 
not  permitted  to  speak  while  the  pincst 
struck  the  animal,  nor  yet  while  the 
sacrifice  was  being  consumed  by  fire ; 
but  between  these  intervals  j)ersons  were 
allowed  to  talk. 

Inter  Canem  et  Lupum.    Between 

two  difficulties  or  dangers  equally  for- 
midable. Between  Scylla  and  Cha- 
ry b'dis.  Literally,  "between  dog  and 
wolf." 

Inter  Nos,  or  in  French  Entre  nous. 
Confidentially,  between  ourselves. 

Inter  Poc'ula.  During  a  drinking 
bout. 

Inter  Rex  (Latin).  A  person  ap- 
pointed to  liold  the  office  of  king  during 
a  temporary  vacancy. 

Intercal'ary  (Latin).  Inserted  be- 
tween or  amongst  others.  Thus,  an 
intercalary  day  is  a  day  foisted  in  be- 
tween two  others,  as  the  29th  February 
iu  leap-year.     (&e  Calends.) 

"  It  was  the  custom  with  Greeks  to  add,  or,  as 
it  was  tenneil,  intercalate,  a  mouth  every  oiuer 
year."— Pries^ifi/ ;  On  History,  xiv. 

Interdict  and  Exeonununieate.  The 
Pope  or  some  ecclesiastic  interdicts 
a  kingdom,  province,  county,  or  town, 
but  excommunicates  an  individual.  This 
sentence  excludes  the  place  or  individual 
from  partaking  ia  certain  sacraments, 
public  worship,  and  the  burial  service. 
The  most  remarkable  instances  are  : — 

580.  The  Bishop  of  Bayeux  laid  an 
interdict  on  all  the  churches  of  Rouen, 
in  consequence  of  the  murder  of  the 
Bishop  Prtjtextat. 

1081.  Poland  was  laid  under  an  inter- 
dict by  Pope  Gregory  VII.,  because 
Boleslas  II.  had  murdered  Stanislaus  at 
the  altar. 

11 80.  Scotland  was  put  under  a  similar 
ban  by  Pope  Alexander  III. 


Interest) 


657. 


Inventors 


1200.  France  was  interdicted  by  In- 
nocent III.,  because  Philippe  Auguste 
refused  to  marry  Ingelbui-ge,  who  had 
been  betrothed  to  him. 

1209.  England  was  laid  under  similar 
sentence  by  Innocent  III.,  in  the  reign 
of  King  John,  and  the  interdict  lasted 
for  six  years. 

In  France,  Robert  the  Fious,  Philippe 
I.,  Louis VII.,  VhiMYiT^e.Augttste,  Philippe 
IV.,  and  Napoleon  I.,  have  all  been 
subjected  to  the  Papal  thunder.  In 
England,  Henry  II.  and  John.  Victor 
Emmanuel  of  Italy  was  excommunicated 
by  Pius  IX.  for  despoiling  the  Papacy  of 
a  large  portion  of  its  temporal  dominions. 

In'teiest  (Latin).  Something  that 
is  between  the  parties  concerned.  The 
interest  of  money  is  the  sum  which  the 
borrower  agrees  to  pay  the  lender  for  its 
use.  To  take  an  interest  in  anything  is 
to  feel  there  is  something  between  it  and 
you  which  may  affect  your  pleasure. 

Interest  for  money.  In  the  Tudor 
dynasty  it  was  10  per  cent.  (37  Heniy 
VIII.  chap.  9).  In  the  reign  of  James 
it  was  reduced  to  8  per  cent. ;  in  Queen 
Anne's  reign  to  o  per  cent.  ;  in  the  last 
quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century  it  was 
reduced  to  '1\  per  cent. 

Interim  of  Augsburg  {The).  A 
Concordat  drawn  up  by  Charles  Quint  in 
1.518  to  allay  the  leligious  turmoil  of 
Germany.  It  was  a  provisional  arrange- 
ment to  be  in  force  till  some  definite 
decision  could  be  pronounced  by  the 
General  Council  to  be  held  at  Trent. 
The  authors  of  this  instrument  were 
.T.  Pflug  (Bishop  of  Xauniburg),  Michael 
Ilekliiig  (titular  Bishop  of  Sidon),  and 
John  Agricola  (a  priest  of  Brandenburg). 

Interlard  (French).  To  put  lard 
or  fat  between  layers  of  meat.  Meta- 
phorically, to  mix  what  is  the  solid  part 
of  a  discourse  with  fulsome  and  in-elevant 
matter.  Thus  we  say,  "To  interlard 
with  oaths,"  to  "interlard  with  com- 
pliments," etc. 

"  Tliey  intei  I;inl  tlie'r  native  drm«s  with  choice 
Of  stniiiu'est  Id-aud..."  Philips :  Cider,  ii. 

Interlo'per.  One  who  runs  between 
traders.  One  who  sets  up  business,  and 
by  so  doing  interferes  with  the  actual 
or  supposed  rights  of  others.  (Dutch, 
ioopcn,  to  run,  to  leap.) 

Inter'polate  (4  syl.).  For  two  or 
more  persons  to  polish  up  something 
between  them.  Metaphorically,  to  in- 
sert spurious  matter  in  a  book  or  docu- 
ment ;  to  gag.  (Latin,  intvr  fiolio,  to 
polish.) 

42 


Inter'preter  (Jfr.).  The  Holy  Spirit 
personified,  in  Bunyan's  Filgrui(''s  Pro- 
f/res.s.  He  is  lord  of  a  house  a  little  way 
beyond  the  Wicket  Gate.  Here  Christian 
was  kindly  entertained  and  shown  many 
wonderful  sights  of  an  allegorical  cha- 
racter. Christiana  and  her  party  stopped 
here,  and  were  similarly  entertained. 

Into'nc  (2  syl.).  To  thunder  out; 
intonation,  the  thundering  of  the  voice. 
(Latin,  tono,  to  thunder.)  The  Romans 
said  that  Cicero  and  Demosthenes 
"thundered  out  then-  orations."  To 
recite  in  a  musical  monotone. 

Intoirication.  Pliny  (xvi.  20)  tells  us 
this  word  is  derived  from  tii.ra,  a  sjiecies 
of  bay-tree  used  for  jjoisoning  arrows. 
Hence  the  Greek  to.ron  (a  bow  and 
arrows),  and  toxicon  (rank  poison). 

Intrigue  (2  syl.),  comes  from  the 
Greek  thn.c,  hair,  whence  the  Latin 
triece,  trifles  or  hairs,  and  the  verb  intilro, 
to  entangle  ;  the  Germans  ha\'e  the  verb 
Ov^yf/;,  to  deceive. 

Inure  (2  syl.)  to  habituate  or  harden 
by  use.  Ure  is  an  archaic  word  meaning 
use.  (Latin  o/)«.'?,  work.  French a«irt'; 
old  French,  eurv.) 

Invalidc  (French).  A  four-sou  pjiece, 
so  called  because  it  was  debased  to  the 
value  of  three  sous  and  a-half. 
"  Tien,  1  rens  cet  invalide,  a  na  santu  va  linire." 
lleux  .irleqainjs  (\<VA). 

Invei'gle  (3  syl.).  To  lead  blind- 
fold ;  to  entice  by  misrepresentation. 
(Xonnan  French,  enreoykr ;  French, 
aveiigler  ;  Italian,  incogliare.') 

Invention  of  the  Cross  [rliseoreri/ 
of  the  eros.s] .  A  festival  held  on  May  3i-d, 
in  commemoration  of  the  "  discoveiy  of 
the  cross  "  by  the  agents  of  St.  Hel'ena, 
mother  of  Constantine  the  Em.peror 
(316).     (Latin,  inren'lo,  to  discover.) 

Inventors  Punisied  by  their  own 
inventions. 

Bastille.  Husues  Aunriot,  Provost 
of  Paris,  who  built  the  Bastile,  was  the 
first  person  confined  therein.  The  charge 
against  him  was  heresy. 

Brazen  Bull.  Perillo'.  who  invented 
the  Brazen  Bull  for  Pliairiris,  Tyrant  of 
Agrigentum,  was  tlie  first  person  baked 
to  death  in  the  horrible  monster. 

Captain.  Cowper  Coles,  inventor  of 
the  turret- ship,  jierished  in  the  Cuptain 
off  Fiuisterre  September  7th,  1870. 

Catheeine  Wheel.  The  inventor  of 
St.  Catherine's  Wheel,  a  diabolical  ma- 
chine consisting  of  four  wheels  turning 
different  ways,  and  each  wheel  aimed 


Inventors 


658 


Invisibility 


■with  saws,  knives,  and  teeth,  was  killed 
by  his  own  machine ;  for  when  St. 
Catherine  was  bound  on  the  wheel,  she 
fell  off,  and  the  niacliine  Hew  to  pieces. 
Oue  of  the  pieces  stnuk  the  inventor, 
and  other  pieces  struck  several  of  the 
men  emploj-ed  to  Avork  it,  all  of  whom 
■were  killed.     {Mrtap/irfistis.) 

GuiLLOTiXE.  J.  B.  V.  Guillotin, 
M.D.,  of  Lyons,  was  guillotined,  but  it 
is  an  error  to  credit  him  with  the  inven- 
tion of  the  instrument.  The  inventor 
was  Dr.  Joseph  Agnace  Guillotin. 

Haman,  son  of  Hammeda'tha,  the 
Amalekite,  of  the  race  of  Agag,  devised 
a  gallows  fifty  cubits  high  on  which  to 
hang  Mordecai,  by  way  of  commencing 
the  extirpation  of  the  Jews  ;  but  the  fa- 
vourite of  Ahasiie'rus  was  liimself  hanged 
on  his  gigantic  gallows.  In  modern  his- 
tory we  have  a  repetition  of  this  incident 
in  tho  case  of  Eiiguerrand  de  Marigni, 
Minister  of  Finance  to  Pliilipx)e  the  Fair, 
■who  was  hung  on  the  gibbet  which  he 
liad  caused  to  be  erected  at  Montfaucon 
for  the  execution  of  certain  felons  ;  and 
four  of  his  successors  in  office  underwent 
the  same  fate. 

Hopkins  (Jfa/tJifir),  the  witcli-fmder, 
■was  himself  tried  liy  his  own  tests,  and 
put  to  death  as  a  wizard. 

IiiON  Cagi^.  The  Bishop  of  Verdun, 
who  invented  the  Iron  Cages,  too  small 
to  allow  tlie  person  confined  in  them  to 
stand  u]iright  or  lie  at  full  length,  was 
the  first  to  be  shut  up  in  one  ;  and  Car- 
dinal La  Balue,  who  recommended  them 
to  Louis  XL,  was  himself  confined  in 
one  for  ten  years. 

Iron  Shroud.  Lud ovi'co  Sforza,  who 
invented  the  Iron  Shroud,  was  the  first 
to  suffer  death  by  this  horrible  torture. 

Maiden.  The  Regent  Morton  of  Scot- 
land, who  invented  the  Maiden,  a  sort 
of  guillotine,  was  the  first  to  he  beheaded 
thereby.  This  was  in  the  reign  of 
Queen  Elizabeth. 

Ostracism.  Clisthenes  introduced  llio 
custom  of  Ostracism,  and  was  the  first 
to  be  banished  therebj'. 

The  Perrieke  was  an  instrument  for 
throwing  stones  of  3.000  lbs.  in  weight ; 
and  the  inventor  fell  a  victim  to  his  own 
invention  b}'  the  accidental  discharge  of 
a  peiTiere  against  a  wall. 

Porta  a  Faenza.  Filippo  Strozzi 
counselled  the  Duke  Alessandro  de' 
Medici  to  construct  the  Porta  a  Faenza 
to  intimidate  the  Florentines,  and  here 
he  was  himself  murdered. 

SALiSBrEY  {the  Earl  of)  was  the  first 
to  use  cannon,  and  was  the  first  English- 
Diau  killed  by  a  cannon  ball. 


TJteop'ius  induced  the  Emperor  Ar- 
cadlus  to  abolish  the  benefit  of  sanc- 
tuary; but  a  few  days  afterwards  he  com- 
mitted some  offence  and  tied  for  safety 
to  the  nearest  cliurch.  St.  Chrysostom 
told  him  lie  had  fallen  into  his  own  net, 
and  he  was  jiut  to  death.    (Lifr  of  St. 

C/uf/SOStOi)!.) 

WiNSTANLEY  (^^r.)  erected  the  first 
Eddystone  lighthouse.  It  was  a  wooden 
polygon,  100  feet  high,  on  a  stone  base; 
but  it  was  washed  away  by  a  storm  in 
1703,  and  the  architect  himself  perished' 
in  his  own  edifice. 

Inventors    Punished.     A   curious 

instance  of  the  ni//  of  invention  is  men- 
tioned in  the  Bridi/e  of  Allan  Ilcportcr, 
February,  1803:— 

"  It  is  told  (if  Mr.  Fercrnsnn's  smmlfntlier,  fliat 
lie  iincMli'il  ;i  jnir  of  f:umiT:i  fur  cli'aiiMiji  (.'r;iin. 
and  fur  Iliis  jinxif  of  siiierior  iiiLioiuiily  lie  w«s 
stiiMiiKiiicd  hcf.nc  tlie  Kirk  Srssiini.iiiid  reiinivcl 
for  iryini.'  tci  jilaoe  the  liandiwork  of  man  above 
tlio  tinic-lioiioured  praoiiceof  cleaning  tlic  khiIii 
on  w  nily  ilays,  wlion  thp  cnrrent  was  IdoH lug 
Iriskly  tliroiigli  the  open  doors  of  llie  liarii." 

Inves'titurc.  (Latin,  cloth'ntg  in  or 
putting  on  canonicals.)  The  admission 
to  office  is  generally  made  by  investi- 
tme  ;  thus,  a  pair  of  gloves  is  given  to  a 
Freemason  in  France  ;  a  cap  is  given  1o 
a  graduate  ;  a  crown,  etc.,  to  a  .sove- 
reign, etc.  A  crosier  and  ring  used  to 
bo  given  to  a  cliurch  dignitarj-  ;  but 
are  now  simply  placed  in  his  hands 
on  his  induction  into  office.  In  the 
eleventh  and  twelfth  centuries  the  kings 
of  Europe  aiid  the  pope  ■were  perpetually 
at  variance  about  the  right  of  investi- 
ture ;  the  question  Avas,  .should  the 
sovereigns  or  should  the  pope  invest 
clergymen  or  apjioint  them  to  their 
livings  and  dignities 'r  (Latin,  rrstis, 
a  gannent ;  u/rtstio.     (.S'rf  Induction.) 

Invin'cible  Doctor.  William  of 
Occam  or  Ockham  (a  ■village  in  Surrey), 
also  called  Doctor  Singula' r'ts.  (1270- 
1317.) 

Invisibility,  according  to  fable,  may 
be  olitained  in  a  multitude  of  ways. 
For  example : — 

Alhr'tc".'^  cloal:,  called  Tarnkappe  (3 
syl.),  which  Siegfried  got  possession  of, 
rendered  him  invisible.  {Xtbelungeii 
Lied.) 

A  chnmelon  carried  in  the  breast  will 
render  a  person  invisible. 

A  capo)i  stone,  called  "  Alectoria,'' 
will  render  any  person  invisible  who 
carries  it  about  his  jierson.  (Sec  Mieeoe 
OF  Stones.) 

A  (lead  hand.  It  is  believed  that  a 
candle   placed    in   a  dead  man's  hand 


Invisibles 


6:)9 


Iphicles'  Oxen 


gives  no  light  to  any  but  those  who 
use  it.     {'StT  Hand.) 

Fern-seed,  mentioned  by  Shakespeare, 
and  by  Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  pos- 
sesses the  same  charm. 

Gi/f/es'  rill//,  taken  from  tlie  flanks  of 
a  brazen  horse,  made  tlie  wearer  in- 
visible, provided  he  turned  the  ring 
inwards. 

Hcl'iotrope,  mentioned  by  Boccaccio 
in  his  Decameron  (Day  viii.  3),  is  a  green 
stone,  which  renders  a  person  invisible. 
So  does  the  herb  called  heliotrope,  ac- 
cording to  Sollnus,  who  says,  '■^  Ilerha 
cliam  ejiisdem  nontlnis  .  .  .  cum,  a  quo- 
cnmqne  f/estithltHr,  snhtralilt  vmbnts  ob- 
itdritmV     {Gcorgic,  xl.) 

The  helmet  of  Perseus  (2  sjd.)  and 
the  helmet  of  Pluto  (called  Orci  Galen), 
both  rendered  the  wearer  invisible. 
{('lassie  storij.) 

The  helmet  tchich  Thito  gave  io  the 
Ci/elops  made  them  invisible  whenever  it 
-was  worn. 

Jael;  the  Giant-ldller  had  a  cloak  of 
invisibility  as  well  as  a  c;ip  of  know- 
ledge. 

Keplelns  iiiaiitle.  The  mantle  of 
Hel  Keplein,  which  belonged  to  the 
dwarf-king  Laurin,  rendered  the  wearer 
invisible.  {The  Heldoihiieh  ;  thirteenth 
century.) 

The  Moras  Jifasphoron  was  a  girdle  of 
invisibility.  {Mrs.  Centlirrc :  A  Bold 
Stroke  fur  a  Wife.) 

OlniVs  ring.  The  ring  of  Otnit,  King 
of  Lombardy,  according  to  the  lleldot- 
liach,  jjossessed  a  similar  charm. 

Jtegiiard's  icouderfat  ring  had  three 
colours,  one  of  which  (the  green)  caused 
the  wearer  to  become  invisible.  {Jici/- 
iiard  the  Fo.r,  1498.) 

Invis'lbles.  (1)  The  Eosicrucians 
were  so  called,  because  they  never  dared 
to  appear  in  public. 

(2)  The  disciijles  of  Osiander,  Flaccius, 
Illiricus,  etc.,  who  denied  the  perpetual 
visibility  of  the  Church.  (Sixteenth 
century.) 

Invulnerability. 

Stones  taken  from  tlie  cassan  plant, 
whicli  grows  in  Panter,  renders  the 
possessor  invulnerable.  (Odoriciis  in 
Haklitgt.) 

A  dip  in  the  river  Styx  rendered 
Achilles  invulnerable.     {Greek  fable.) 

Medt§a  rendered  Jason,  with  whom 
she  had  fallen  in  love,  ])roof  against 
wounds  and  fire  by  anointing  him  with 
the  Promethe'an  unguent.  {Greek fable.) 


Siegfried  (2  syl.)  was  rendered  in- 
vulnerable by  anointing  his  body  with 
dragon's  blood.     {Xibehoigen  Lied.) 

lol  (pron.  Yol).  The  Danish  word  for 
Chiistmas  ;  the  same  as  Yale. 

"  TIiP  savase  Dane 
At  lol  more  deep  Ibe  mead  did  drain." 

.S/r  IK.  Scutt :  Marmion. 

lo'nian  Mode.  A  species  of  church 
music  in  the  key  of  C  major,  in  imitation 
of  the  ancient  Greek  mode  so  called. 

Ionic  Accomplishments.  Gesture 
and  dress. 

lon'ic  Architecture.  So  called  from 
lo'nia,  where  it  took  its  rise.  The 
capitals  are  decorated  with  volutes,  and 
the  cornice  witVi  dentils.  The  shaft  is 
fluted  ;  the  entablature  either  plain  or 
embellished. 

"The  reoide  of  Ionia  foitned  their  order  of 
arcliiterture  on  the  model  of  a  young  woman 
dressed  in  lier  liair,  and  of  an  easv, elegant  sliape; 
whereas  the  Doric  liad  heen  fornicd  on  the  model 
of  a  robust,  strong  m-Mi."~\  itruvias. 

Ionic  School  or  Ionic  Philoso- 
phers. Thales,  Anaximander,  Anaxi- 
me'nes,  Heracli'tos,  and  Anaxag'oras 
were  all  natives  of  Ionia,  and  were  the 
earliest  of  the  Greek  philosophers.  They 
tried  to  prove  that  all  created  things 
spring  from  one  princijile ;  Thales  said 
it  was  water,  Anaximenes  thought  it 
was  air  or  gas,  Aiiaxagoras  that  it  was 
atoms,  Heraclitos  maintained  that  it 
was  fire  or  caloric,  while  Anaximander 
insisted  that  the  elements  of  all  things 
are  eternal,  for  ex  nihilo  nihil  Jit. 

lormungan'dur.  The  serpent  that 
eucomijasses  the  whole  earth,  according 
to  Scandinavian  mj'thology. 

lo'ta  or  .Tot.  A  very  little,  the  least 
quantity  possible.  The  iota  [i]  is  the 
smallest  letter  of  the  Greek  aljjhabet, 
called  the  Lacedemonian  letter.  (He- 
brew, Yod  [-],  the  sm.allest  Hebrew 
letter.) 

"  This  bond  doth  give  then  here  no  jot  of  Wood." 
HhuliC^pcitre  :  Merchant  nf  Venice,  iv.  1. 

Iphicles'  Oxen.  Quid  hoc  ad  IphicU 
bores  >  What  has  that  to  do  with  the 
subject  in  hand  'i  So  in  V Aroeat  the 
judge  had  to  pull  up  the  shepherd  every 
minute  with  the  question,  '■'Mais,  mon 
a»ii,  rcvenon  a  nos  moatons.''''  Iplilclos 
or  Iphicles  was  the  possessor  of  large 
herds  of  oxen,  and  Neleus  (2  syl.)  pro- 
mised to  give  his  daughter  in  marriage 
to  Bias  if  he  would  bring  him  the  oxen 
of  Iphicles,  which  were  guarded  by  a 
very  fierce  dog.  Melampos  contrived  to 
obtain  the  oxen  for  his  brother,  but 
being  caught   in   the   act,  he   was   cast 


Iphicratensians 


660 


irena 


into  prison.  Melampos  afterwards  told 
Astyocha,  wife  of  Iphicles,  how  to  be- 
come the  mother  of  children,  whereuj)on 
Iphicles  gave  him  the  coveted  herd, 
and  his  brother  married  the  daughter  of 
Neleus.  The  secret  told  by  Melampos 
to  Astyocha  was  "  to  steep  the  rust  of 
iron  in  wine  for  ten  days,  and  drink  it." 
This  she  did,  and  became  the  mother 
of  eight  sons.  {Odyssey,  xi.  ;  Iliad, 
xiii.  23 ;  Apollodoros,  i.  9  ;  Fausanias, 
iv.  36.) 

*.*  When  Tressilian  wanted  Dominie 
Holiday  to  tell  liim  of  a  smith  who 
could  shoe  his  horse,  the  pedngogue 
kept  starting  from  the  point,  and  Tres- 
silian says  to  him  : — ■ 

"  Pennit  mo  to  ask,  in  your  own  learned  plirasn, 
Quid  t:;ic  ad  Iphjieli  biiveii,  what  lias  t\\Al  lo  (it) 
with  my  poor  WAi;/"— Sir  W.  Scott :  Kenilwortli, 
fbap.  ix. 

V  Another  similar  phrase  is  "  Quid  ad 
Mcrciiriian  /  "     Ti  Trpos  rov  'Epurjv  : 

Another  is  "  Jo  Hecuba^'"  "Wliat  has 
that  to  do  with  Hecuba  Y 

Iphicraten'sians.  The  best  trained 
and  bravest  of  the  Greek  soldiers  wei'e 
so  called  from  Iiihicnltes,  an  Athenian 
general.     {'Vce  Fabian  Soldiers.) 

Iphigeni'a.  Daughter  of  Agamem- 
non and  Clytemne.stra.  Her  fatlier  hav- 
ing offended  Ar'temis  {Diana)  by  killing 
her  favourite  stag,  vowed  to  sacrifice  to 
the  augi-y  ''goddess  the  most  beautiful 
thing  that  came  into  his  possession  in  the 
next  twelve  months  ;  this  was  an  infant 
daughter.  The  father  deferred  the 
sacrifice  till  the  fleet  of"  the  combined 
Greeks  reached  Aulis  and  Iphigenia 
had  gi'own  to  womanhood.  Then 
Calchas  told  him  that  the  fleet  would 
be  wind-bound  till  he  had  fulfilled  his 
vow  ;  accordingly  the  king  prepared  to 
sacrifice  his  daughter,  but  Artemis  at 
the  last  moment  snatched  her  from  the 
altar  and  caiTied  her  to  heaven,  substi- 
tuting a  hind  in  her  place. 

The  similarity  of  this  legend  to  the 
Scripture  stories  of  Jephthah's  vow,  and 
Abiaham's  offering  of  his  son  Isaac,  is 
noticeable.     (.S'cf  Idomeneus.) 

Ipse  Dixit  (Latin).  A  mere  assertion, 
wholly  unsupported.  We  say  it  is 
"your  ipse  dixit,^'  "his  ipse  dixit," 
"  their  ipse  dixit,"  and  so  on. 

Ipso  Facto.  Irrespective  of  all  ex- 
ternal considerations  of  right  or  wrong  ; 
absolutely  ;  by  the  very  deed  itself.  It 
sometimes  means  the  act  itself  carries 
the  consequences  (as  excommunication 


without  sentence  of  excommunication 
being  directly  pronounced). 

"  Wli:itever  tlie  captain  does  is  riprlit  ipso  facto 
[i.r.  because  it  is  (hmc  by  tlje  oaptainj,  and  any 
oplKisitiim  to  it  is  wroiig,  <>u  board  sliip.''— fl. //. 
Daua. 

By  Inirning  tlie  Piipc's  bull,  Lutlier  ipso  facto 
[by  tlie  very  deed  itself]  denied  tlie  Poi  e'g  supreiii- 
acy.    Heresy  carries  excummuuicatidn  ipso  facto. 

Ipswich.  AcoiTuption  of  Gypes-xvick, 
the  town  on  the  river  "Gyppen,"  now 
called  the  Orwell. 

Iram'.  The  pilgrim's  garb  is  so  called 
by  the  Arabs. 

I'ran.    The  empire  of  Persia. 

"  Avouffe  the  shame 
His  race  hath  brought  on  Iran's  name." 

Thomas  Moore :  Fire  Worshii^ers. 

Ireland  or  I^riii  is  Celtic  ;  from  I^ri 
or  7fn(  western).  lAoyd  (State  Worthies, 
article  "  Grandison  "),  with  a  gravity 
which  cannot  but  excite  laughter,  says 
the  island  is  called  the  laud  of  Ire 
because  of  the  broils  there,  which  have 
extended  over  four  hundred  years. 
Worniius  derives  the  word  from  the 
Euuic  Yr,  a  bow.     {See  below.) 

Ireland. 

Called  by  the  natives  "Erin,"  i.e. 
Eri-in)>is,  or  lar-imris  (west  island). 

By  the  Welsh  "Yver-den"  (west 
valley). 

By  Apule'ius,  "Hiber'nia,"  which  is 
Icriiia,  a  corruption  of  lar-inni-a. 

By  Juvenal  (ii.  260)  "Juverna"  or 
"  Jubcrna,"  the  same  as  Icrna  or  lernia. 

By  Claudian  "  Ouernia,"  the  same. 

By  moderns  "  Ireland,"  which  is  lar- 
cn-land  (land  of  the  west). 

U  The  three  great  .laiiits  of  Ireland 
are  St.  Patrick,  St.  Columba,  and  St. 
Bridget. 

2'hefair  maid  of  Ireland.  Ignis  fatuus 
{q.r.). 

"  He  had  read  in  former  times  of  a  Going  Fire, 
called  '  Isrnis  B^atuus,'  the  lire  of  destiny;  by  some, 
'Will  with  the  Wisp,'  or  'Jack  with  the  Lan- 
tern;' and  likewise,  by  some  siuu'le  country 
people.  'The  Fair  JIaid  of  Ireland,'  wliich  used 
to  lead  wanderiuf,'  travellers  out  of  their  way." — 
CT/it'  St  mi.  CliainpioHS  of  CUristetidom,  i.  7. 

Tlie  three    tragic  stories  of  the  Irish. 

(1)  The  death  of  the  children  of  Touran  ; 

(2)  the   death  of    the   children  of  Lir; 

(3)  the  death  of  the  children  of  Usnach. 
{(J^ Flanagan  :  Transactions  of  the  Gaelic 
Society  of  Fublin,  vol.  i.) 

Fea)t  Ireland^s  scholarships.  Four 
scholarships  of  £30  a  year  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Oxford,  founded  by  Dr.  John 
Ireland,  Dean  of  Westminster,  in  182.5, 
for  Latin  and  Greek.  They  are  tenable 
for  foiu'  years. 

•.'  The  same  perstm  founded  an  "Exegetical 
Professorship"  of  £800  a  year. 

Ire'na.  The  impersonation  of  Ireland 


Iris 


661 


Iron  Mask 


whose  inheritance  was  withheld  by  the 
tyrant  Grautorto.  Sir  Artegal  {Justice) 
is  sent  hy  the  Fai-rie  Quceue  to  succour 
the  distressed  lady.  Grantorto,  or  the 
rebellion  of  1580,  being  slain,  she  is 
restored  to  her  throne  and  reigns  in 
peace.     (Spaincr  :  Faerie  Quccnc,  v.) 

I'ris.  Goddess  of  the  rainbow,  or  the 
rainbow  itself.  In  classic  mythology 
she  is  called  the  messenger  of  the  gods 
when  they  intended  discord,  and  the 
rainbow  is  the  bridge  or  road  let  down 
from  heaven  for  her  accommodation. 
When  the  gods  meant  peace  they  sent 
Mercury.     (Greek  and  Latin,  iris.) 

"  rU  have  an  Tris  that  shall  fliid  thee  out." 
I  hHiakcupeare :  i:  Henry  VT.,  iii.  2. 

Irish  Agita'tor.  Daniel  O'Conuell 
(1775-1847). 

Irish  Apricots.    Potatoes. 

Irish  Stew,  A  dish  of  food  made 
by  stevving  together  meat,  onions,  and 
potatoes.  Called  "Irish"  from  the 
predominance  of  potatoes. 

Irish  Wedding.  When  a  person  has 
a  black  ej'e  we  sometimes  say  to  him, 
"  You  have  been  to  an  Irish  wedding,  I 
see,"  because  the  Irish  are  more  famous 
for  giving  their  guests  on  these  occasions 
black  eyes  than  u'hite  favours. 

Iron.  The  hieroglyphic  for  iron  is 
S,  which  denotes  "  gold  at  the  bottom" 
(O),  only  its  upper  part  is  too  sharp, 
volatile,  and  half  corrosive  C);  this 
being  taken  away,  iron  would  become 
gold.     Iron  is  called  Mars. 

iStrikc  irliile  the  iron  is  hot.  "  Saitrc 
le  fer  pciidioit  cuCil  est  chaiul.''''  Make 
hay  while  the  sun  shines. 

To  have  manij  irons  in  the  fire.  To 
have  many  affairs  in  hand. 

If  you  have  too  many  irons  in  the  fire, 
some  irill  burn.  If  you  have  more  ali'airs 
in  hand  than  you  can  properly  attend  to, 
some  of  them  will  be  neglected  and  turn 
out  badly.  Both  these  locutions  refer 
to  the  "heaters"  or  irons  employed  in 
laundries.  If  the  "  heater"  is  too  hot, 
it  will  scorch  the  linen. 

To  ride  with  a  rod  of  iron.  To  rule 
tyrannically.  "  Gouverner  avec  line  verge 
defer.'' 

Iron.    {See  Pig  Ieon.) 

Iron  Age.  The  era  between  the 
death  of  Charlemagne  and  the  close  of 
the  Carlovingian  dynasty  is  so  called 
from  its  almost  ceaseless  wars.  It  is 
sometimes  called  the  leaden  age  for  its 
worthlessness,  and  the  dark  age  for  its 
jbarrenness  of  learned  men. 


Tron  Age.  The  age  of  cruelty  and 
hard-heartedness.  When  Hubert  tells 
Prince  Arthur  he  must  burn  his  eyes 
out,  the  young  prince  replies,  "Ah, 
none  but  iu  tliis  iron  age  would  do  it. 
{Shakespeare  :  King  John,  iv.  1.) 

Iron-arm.    Francis  de  Lauoue,  the 

Huguenot  soldier,   Bras  de  Fer  (1531- 

1591.       (6'rt' FlEEABEAS.) 

_  Iron  Duke  ( The).  The  Duke  of  Wel- 
lington was  so  called  from  his  iron  will. 
(1769-1852.) 

Iron-hand     or    the    Iron-hander. 

Goetz  von  Berlichingen  {Godfrey  of 
Berlichingen),  who  lost  his  right  hand 
at  the  siege  of  Landshut,  and  had  one 
made  of  ii'on  to  supply  its  place.  (1480- 
1562.)     {See  Silvee-hand.) 

Iron  Horse  {The).  The  railway 
locomotive. 

"  We  can  now  drive  the  iron  horse  from  India 
down  the  valley  (if  the  Irniwaddy,  and  (.via  Mnul- 
niein)  to  the  very  gates  of  China,  without  any 
1  olitical  uiii  edimeut."— J/r.  llallet,  Dec,  1SS5. 

Iron  Mask.  The  man  in  the  iron 
mask  (called  Lestang)  was  Count  Er'- 
colo  Auto'nio  Matthio'li,  a  senator  of 
Mantua,  and  private  agent  of  Ferdinand 
Charles,  Duke  of  Mantua.  He  suffered 
imprisonment  of  tweuty-four  years  for 
having  deceived  Louis  XIV.  in  a  secret 
treaty  for  the  purchase  of  the  fortress  of 
Casale,  the  key  of  Italy.  The  agents  of 
Spain  and  Austria  bribed  him  by  out- 
bidding the  Grande  Monarque.  The 
secrecy  observed  by  all  j)arties  was  in- 
violate, because  the  infamy  of  the 
transaction  would  not  bear  daylight. 
(//.  G.  A.  Ellis :  True  History  of  the 
Iron  3Iask.) 

*'  M.  Loiseleur  utterly  denies  that 
Matthioli  (sometimes  called  Giacomo) 
was  the  real  hoinnie  dn  masque  de  fer 
(See  Temple  Bar,  May,  1872,  pp.  182- 
184) ;  but  Marius  Topin,  in  llie  Man  in 
the  Iron  Mask,  maintains  it  as  an  in- 
dubitable fact.  There  is  an  English 
translation  of  Topin's  book  by  Vizetelli, 
published  by  Smith  and  Elder. 

There  are  several  others  "  identified" 
as  the  veritable  Iron  Mask,  e.g. — ■ 

(1)  Louis,  Due  de  Vemiandois,  natural 
son  of  Louis  XIV.  by  De  la  Valli^re, 
who  was  imprisoned  for  life  because  he 
gave  the  Dauphin  a  box  on  the  ears. 
{Mi'iiioires  Secrets  pour  servir  dV Histoire 
de  Ferse.)  This  cannot  be,  as  the  duke 
died  in  camp,  1683. 

(2)  A  young  foreign  nobleman,  cham- 
berlain of  Queen  Anno,  and  real  father 
of  Louis  XIV.     {A  Dutch  story.) 

(3)  Duo  de  Beaufort,    King    of   the 


Iron    Tooth 


G62 


Iroquois 


Markets.  {Lcfivangc-Chanccl :  V Annie 
Litterairc,  17-59.)  This  suppositiou  is 
worthless,  as  the  duke  was  slain  by  the 
Turks  at  the  siege  of  Candia  (1669). 

(4)  An  elder  brother  of  Louis  XIV., 
some  say  by  the  Duke  of  Buckingham, 
others  by  Cardinal  Mazarin.  (See  7  'ol- 
tairc:  JJtctionnaircl'hilosophique  [Anna], 
and  Lbu/uct :  Bantih'  l)evoUcc.) 

(5)  Abbe  Soulavie  asserts  it  was  a 
twin  brother  of  Louis  XIV.,  Marivhal 
Ji'ichcVu'u.  This  tale  forms  the  basis  of 
Zschokke's  Gennan  tragedj',  and  Pour- 
nier's  drama. 

(6)  Some  maintain  that  it  was  Fouquet, 
the  disgraced  Minister  of  Finance  to 
Louis  XIV. 

(7)  Some  that  it  was  the  Armiuian 
Patriarch,  Avedik. 

(8)  Some  that  it  was  the  Duke  of 
Monmoutli  ;  but  he  was  executed  on 
Tower  Hill  in  168.5. 

(9)  In    the     Wcsstern    Morn'inq   Xcks 

(Plymouth,  October  21st,  189;i)"we  are 

told  that  Le  Commandant  Bazerics  has 

deciphered  a  letter  in  cipher  written  by 

Louvois,   Minister   of   War,  to   Catinat 

(Lieutenant-General  in  command  of  the 

army  at    Piedmont),    desiring    liim    to 

arrest  M.   de  Bulonde  for  raising   the 

siege  of  Conti ;  and  to  send  liini  to  the 

citadel  of  Pignerol. 

"  He  was  to  be  allowed  to  walk  on  llio  raiiiiiarts 
wearing  a  mask." 

Whatever  the  real  name  of  this  myste- 
rious prisoner,  he  was  interred  in  1703 
under  the  name  of  Marchiali,  aged  about 
forty-five.  And  the  name  is  so  registered 
in  St.  Paul's  register,  Paris ;  witnessed 
by  M.  de  llosarge  (mayor  of  the  Bastile) 
and  M.  Eeilh  (surgeon) . 

"Tlie  mask  was  made  of  black  velvet  on  steel 
s)iriiig.s.'' 

Iron-tootli  \Dcnt  de  Fei'\.    Frederick 

II.,  Elector  of  Brandenburg.  (1657,  1688- 

1713.) 

Iron    Crown    of  Lombardy  is  so 

called  from  a  narrow  band  of  iron  within 
it,  said  to  be  beaten  out  of  one  of  the 
nails  used  at  the  Crucifixion.  This  baud 
is  about  three-eighths  of  an  inch  broad, 
and  one-tenth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
According  to  tradition,  the  nail  was  first 
given  to  Constantiue  by  his  mother,  who 
discovered  the  cross.  The  outer  circlet 
of  the  crown  is  of  beaten  gold,  and  set 
with  precious  stones.  The  crown  is  pre- 
served with  great  care  at  Monza,  near 
Milan  ;  and  Napoleon,  like  his  predeces- 
sor Ch.arlemagne,  was  crowned  with  it. 

After  the  war  between  Austria  and 
Italy,  the  Iron  Crown  was  delivered  by 
the  former  power  to  Victor  Innnauuel, 


Iron  entered  into  bis  Soul  {The). 
The  anguish  or  annoj'ance  is  felt  most 
keenly.  The  allusion  is  to  the  ancient 
custom  of  torturing  the  flesh  with  in- 
struments of  ii-on. 

"  I  saw  the  iron  enter  into  Iiis  sonl.  and  felt 
what  sort  of  lain  it  was  that  ariseth  from  lioie 
deferred." — iS'itnie ;  Sevtiiiicutul  Journey. 

Iron  Maiden  of  Nuremberg  [The). 
An  instrument  of  torture  for  "  heretics," 
traitors,  parricides,  etc.  It  was  a  box 
big  enough  to  admit  a  man,  with  folding- 
doors,  the  Avhole  studded  with  sharp 
iron  spikes.  When  tlie  doors  were 
pressed-to  these  spikes  were  forced  into 
the  body  of  the  victim,  who  was  left 
there  to  die  in  horrible  torture.  (Gennan, 
EiKcrnc  Jumifrau.) 

V  One  of  these  diabolical  mn chines 
was  exhibited  in  1892  in  the  Free  Trade 
Hall,  Manchester,  and  in  London. 

Irons  (7«).  In  fetters.  "■  Mc(ti-e  hs 
fers  uttx  picds  «  [qiic/qu''i{n].'''' 

Ironclad  (An).  A  ship  having  Ike 
hull  sheatlied  wholly  or  in  part  with 
plates  of  iron,  to  resist  projectiles. 

Ironclad  Oath  (T/ie),  1866.  An 
Act  passed  in  North  America  excluding 
voters  in  the  States  lately  in  rebellion 
from  the  franchise;  practically  disfran- 
chising all  Southerners  over  twenty  five 
years  of  age. 

Ironside.  Edmund  II.,  King  of  the 
Anglo-Saxons,  was  so  called,  from  hb 
iron  armour.     (989,  1016-1017.) 

Xestor  Irunside.  Sir  Richard  Steele, 
who  assumed  the  name  in  The  O'liardian. 
(1671-1729.) 

Ironsides.  The  soldiers  that  served 
under  Cromwell  were  so  called,  especially 
after  the  battle  of  Marston  Moor,  where 
they  disjilayed  an  iron  resolution. 

Irony.   A  dissembling.   (Greek,  ciron, 

a  dissembler,  eironcia.) 

"So  praveabody  upon  so  solemn  an  occasion 
should  not  deal  in  irony,  or  explain  theirmeauing 
by  contraries."— .S'«'i/t. 

Irony  of  Fate  (The).  A  strange 
fatality  which  has  brought  about  some- 
thing quite  the  reverse  of  what  might 
have  been  expected. 

"By  the  irony  of  fate  the  Ten  Hours'  Bill  was 
carried  in  the  very  session  when  Lord  Ashley, 
having  changed  his  views  on  the  Corn  Laws,  felt 
it  his  duty  to  resipu  his  seat  iu  Parlian.eut."— 
The  Leisure  Hour,  188". 

Iroquois  (An).  Anyone  of  the  five 
(now  six)  confederate  tribes,  viz.  the 
Mohawks,  Oneidas,  Onondagas,  Cayu- 
gas,  Senecas,  and  sixth  the  Tuscaroras, 
added  in  1712,  now  forming  "The  Sis 
No-tious  of  the  Iroquois  Confederacy." 


Irrefragable 


663 


Isabelle 


Irrefragable  Doctor.  Alexander 
Hales,  an  Enfilish  friar,  founder  of  the 
scholastic  tlieology  (thirteenth  century). 

Irrel'evant  is  not  to  relieve,  not  to 
lighten.  Irrelevant  matter  is  that  which 
does  not  help  to  bear  the  burden  or 
make  it  lighter ;  something  not  perti- 
nent or  not  material  to  the  point  in 
question.     (Latin  l-vis,  light.) 

Irresis'tible.  Alexander  the  Great 
•went  to  consult  thoDeljihic  oracle  before 
he  started  on  his  expedition  against 
Persia.  He  chanced,  however,  to  arrive 
on  a  day  when  no  responses  were  made. 
Nothing  daunted,  he  went  in  search  of 
the  Pytliia,  and  when  she  refused  to 
attend,  took  her  to  tlie  temple  by  force. 
"Son,"  said  the  priestess,  "thou  art 
mvsistible."  "Enough,"  cried  Alex- 
ander; "I  accept  your  words  as  my 
response." 

Irritable  Genus  (T/ir)  or  the  "Gouts 
xyyita'jile  "  {Ifonire  :  F.plsfh's,  ii.  2,  102). 
Poets,  and  authors  generally. 

"  Tt  [pulilisliers]  is  a  wrathful  trade,  and  the 
irritable  genus  cimirrehend-t  the  boDlisellins?  as 
well  as  the  liiiok-writiii!;  species."— A'l'r  ir.  Scutt: 
The  Munnrtirij  (Int.). 

Irspilles  Felles.  Skins  having 
bristly  hair  like  that  of  goats.  {Ifirci- 
p'diix — i.e.  "goat's  hair."  {Fcstiis:.)  A 
fell  15  Anglo-Saxon  for  "skin,"  like  the 
Latin  p^'ll-is,  English  p''el.  Thus  we 
say  still  a  "  wool-fell."  Shakespeare 
speaks  of  "a  fell  of  hair"  (Macbeth,  v. 
5).     l-\llinoii(i<r,  a  dealer  in  skins. 

Irtish  Ferry.  To  cross  (he  Ii-lhh 
ferrij  is  to  be  laid  on  the  shelf.  The 
ferry  of  the  Irtish  is  crossed  by  those 
who  are  exiled  to  Siberia.  It  is  regarded 
in  Russia  as  the  ferry  of  political  death. 

Irus.  The  beggar  of  gigantic  stature, 
who  kept  watch  over  the  suitors  of 
Peuel'ope.  His  real  name  was  Ar'neos, 
but  the  suitors  nicknamed  him  Iros 
because  he  carried  their  messages  for 
them.  L'lysses,  on  his  return,  felled 
him  to  the  ground  with  a  single  blow, 
and  flung  him  out  of  doors. 

Toorcr  than  Inis.  A  Greek  proverb, 
adopted  by  the  Romans  (see  Or  id),  and 
existing  in  the  French  language  ("iY/fy 
pniivre  qii'Iras  "),  alluding  to  the  beggar 
referred  to  above. 

Ir'vingites  (3  syl.).  The  self-styled 
Catholic  A/jostolic  Church,  founded  by 
the  Eev.  Edward  Irving  in  1829;  they 
believed  in  the  gift  of  tongues. 

Isaac.  A  hedge-sparrow,  a  cor- 
ruption of  Chaucer's  Avord,   hcisua^ge. 


(Anglo-Saxon,  hcag,  hedge  ;  sngga,  the 
sugga  bird.) 

Isaac  of  York.  The  Jew  in  Iranhoe, 
and    father    of    Rebecca.      (JSir  Walter 

Scott.) 

Isabel,  called  Shc-icolf  of  Fraiice. 
The  adulterous  queen  of  Edward  II., 
daughter  of  Philippe  IV.  {le  Bel)  of 
France.  According  to  tradition,  she 
murdered  her  royal  husband  by  thrust- 
ing a  hot  iron  into  his  bowels. 

"  Mark  the  .veiir  and  mark  the  niirht 

When  Severn  shall  re-echo  with  affrijrht 
The  shrieks  of  death  through  Berkley's  roofs  that; 

ring. 
Sl-rieks  of  an  agonising  king. 
She-wolf  of  France,  with  unrelenting  fang.s, 
That  tear'st  the  bowels  of  thy  mangled  mate  1 " 
Gniy :  The  Hard. 

Ls'abel.  The  Spanish  form  of  Eliza- 
beth.     The  French  form  is  Isabelle. 

Isabella,  Princess  of  Sicily,  in  lovs 
with  Robert  le  Diable,  but  promised  in 
marriage  to  the  prince  of  Grana'da,  who 
challenged  Robert  to  mortal  combat. 
Robert  was  allured  from  the  combat  by 
his  fiend -father,  but  when  Alice  tolil 
him  that  Isabella  "  the  princess  is  wait- 
ing for  him  at  the  altar,"  a  struggle 
took  place  between  Bertram  and  Alice, 
the  one  trying  to  drag  the  duke  to  the 
infernal  regions,  and  the  other  trying  to 
win  him  to  the  ways  of  virtue.  Alice 
prevailed,  but  the  audience  is  not  in- 
formed whether  Robert  married  Isabella 
or  not.  {Mci/erOcer's  ojicra,  Robert  il 
Diavolo.) 

Isabella,  daughter  of  Hercules,  Duke  of 
Ferra'rt',  sister  of  Alfonso  and  Ippol'ito, 
and  wife  of  Francisco  Gouza'go,  lord  of 
Mantua. 

Isabella.    {See  Pot  of  Basil.) 

Isabelle  or  Isabella  (in  Orlando 
Farioso).  Daughter  of  the  king  of  Gali- 
cia,  in  love  with  Zerbi'no  ;  but,  being  a 
pagan,  Zerbino  could  not  many  her. 
Zerbino  induces  her  to  quit  her  native 
land,  and  gives  Odori'co  charge  of  her. 
She  is  wrecked,  and  Odorico  escapes  with 
her  to  Rochelle.  Here  Odorico  assails 
her  virtue,  but  is  alarmed  by  a  vessel 
which  he  sees  approaching,  and  flees. 
She  is  kept  captive  by  the  crew  for  nine 
months,  but  Orlando  slays  or  hangs  all 
the  crew,  and  Isabella  being  free,  ac- 
companies her  rescuer.  Her  lament  at 
the  death  cf  Zerbino  is  one  of  the  best 
parts  of  the  poem  (book  xii.).  She 
retires  to  a  chapel  to  bury  Zerbino,  and 
is  there  slain  by  Rod'omont. 

Isabelle.  The  colour  so  called  is  the 
yellowof  soiled  calico.  Ayellow-duu  horse 


Isaf 


664 


Isinglass 


is  called  in  France  un  cheval  isabcUe.  The 
tale  is  attaclied  to  Isabel  of  Austria 
and  Isabel  of  Castile.  It  is  said  that 
Isabel  of  Austria,  daughter  of  Philip  II., 
at  the  siege  of  Osteud  vowed  not  to 
change  her  linen  till  the  place  was  taken. 
As  the  siege  lasted  three  years,  we  may 
well  suppose  that  it  was  somewhat 
soiled  by  three  years'  wear. 

"His  colour  was  isabel,  a  name  f-'iven  in  allu- 
sion to  tin;  wliiuisiciil  vow  of  IsabeUa  Clara 
Euifonia,  Governess  of  the  Netlierlamls,  at  ilie 
iniMuoralilp  sie^re  of  Ostenrt,  which  lastcil  from 
lOOl  till  Vmr—DiUon  :  Traviils  in  Spain  (1781 1. 

Isabel  of  Castile,  we  are  told,  made  a 
vow  to  the  Virgin  not  to  change  her 
linen  till  Graua'da  fell  into  her  hands  ; 
but  this  siege  lasted  longer  than  ladies 
are  wont  to  wear  their  body-linen. 

"  Brifrht-Sun  was  mounted  on  a  black  Iiorsp, 
that  of  Kelix  was  a  sroy,  Chery's  was  white  as 
milk,  anil  the  princess's  an  isabelle."— Coiottess 
d'Ahiois:  Fair-sUir  and  Prince  Cliery. 

Isaf.  An  Arabian  idol  in  the  form  of 
a  man,  brought  from  Sj'ria,  and  placed 
in  Es-Safa,  near  the  temple  of  Mecca. 
Some  say  Isaf  was  a  man  converted  into 
stone  for  impiety,  and  that  Mahomet 
suffered  this  one  "  idol  "  to  remain  as  a 
warning  to  his  disciples. 

Issnbras  or  Sir  Isumbras.  A  hero 
of  nicdiivval  romance,  first  ])roud  and 
presumptuous,  when  he  was  visited  by  all 
sorts  of  punishments  ;  afterwards  peni- 
tent and  htunble,  when  his  afflictions 
were  turned  into  blessings.  It  was  in 
this  latter  stage  that  he  one  day  carried 
on  his  horse  two  children  of  a  poor 
woodman   across  a   ford.      {'Sec  Ysam- 

BRAS.) 

"  I  warne  von  Hrst  at  the  be=rynnin?;e 
That  I  will  make  no  vain  carpiujje  [talk] 
Of  (leeils  of  arniys  ne  of  amours, 
As  (his  mynsrrelli'S  and  jestours. 
That  makys  carinii^'e  in  many  a  place 
Of  Octoriane  ami  Ise  nl.rase," 

]yi!liiini  n/  Xassiitgtnn. 

I'sengrin  or  Sir  Isgrim,  the  wolf, 
afterwards  created  Earl  of  Pitwood,  in 
tlie  beast- e])ic  of  Itrijuard  the  Fu.r. 
Iscngrin  typifies  the  barons,  and  Rejmard 
the  church  ;  and  the  gist  of  the  tale  is  to 
show  how  Reynard  bamboozles  his  uncle 
Wolf.  (German,  Isegrimm,  a  wolf,  a 
surly  fellow.) 

Isoult.     {Sec  YSONDE.) 

Ishban,  in  the  satire  of  Absalom  and 
AcliitopJiel,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  is  Sir 
Robert  Clayton,  who'd  "  e'en  turn  loyal 
to  be  made  a  peer  "  (part  ii.). 

Isli'boshetb,  in  Dryden's  satire  of 
Absalom  and  Achitophcl,  is  meant  for 
Richard  Cromwell.  His  father,  Oliver, 
is  called  Saul.    At  the  death  of  Saul, 


Ishbosheth  was  acknowledged  king  by  a 
party,  and  reigned  two  years,  when  he 
was  assassinated.     (Part  i.  .57,  08.) 

"  Tlipy  who,  when  Sail  was  dead,  without  a  blow, 
M:ule  f.i.ilish  lshbo:<heth  the  crowu  forj^jo." 

Isb'monie'.  The  petrified  city  in 
Upper  Egypt,  full  of  men  and  womeu 
turned  to  stone.  {Perri/ :  View  of  ths 
Zrra/it.) 

Marryat  has  borrowed  the  idea  in  his 
Pae/ia  of  Ma  11  ij  Tales. 

I'siac  Tablet.  A  spurious  Egyptian 
monument  sold  liy  a  soldier  to  Cardinal 
Bembo  in  1527,  and  preserved  at  Turin. 
It  is  of  cojiper,  and  on  it  are  represented 
most  of  the  Egj'ptian  deities  in  tho 
mysteries  of  Isis.  It  was  said  to  have 
been  found  at  the  siege  of  Rome  in  lo'l't. 
The  word  Isiac  is  an  adjective  formed 
from  Isis. 

Isido'rian  Decre'tals.  Also  called 
J'seadd  or  Fahr-  Jlecntals.  A  spurious 
compilation  of  lifty-niue  decretals  by 
Mentz,  who  lived  in  the  ninth  century, 
and  fraudulently  ascribed  them  to  I'sidore 
of  Seville,  who  died  in  the  sixth  century. 
Prior  to  tlie  ninth  century  tho  only 
authentic  collection  of  decretals  or  letters 
of  the  popes  in  rejdy  to  questions  pro- 
posed to  them  by  bishops,  ecclesiastical 
judges,  and  otliers,  was  tliat  of  Dionysius 
the  Little  [Exig'iius],  a  Roman  monk, 
who  lived  in  the  middle  of  the  sixth 
century.  He  commences  with  Pope 
Siricius  (fourth  century).  The  Lsidorian 
decretals  contain  fifty-nine  letters  as- 
cribed to  persons  living  between  Cle- 
ment and  Siricius,  and  forty  others  not 
contained  in  the  Dionysian  collection. 
The  object  of  these  forged  letters  is 
either  to  exalt  the  Papacy  or  enforce 
some  law  assuming  the  existence  of  such 
exaltation.  Amongst  these  spurious 
letters  are  the  decretal  of  St.  Anacle'tus, 
the  decretal  of  St.  Alexander,  the  letter 
of  Julius  to  the  Easterns,  the  synodical 
letter  of  St.  Athana'sius,  the  decretal  of 
St.  Fabian  instituting  the  rite  of  the 
chrism,  and  so  on. 

"  I^a  reforme  iiseudo-Isidorienne,  adojiteo  par 
f?.  Niclinliis,  en  sim,  par  le  biiiiieme  concile  cecu- 
meiii<iue  en  .s7o,  contlrnie  par  le  concile  de  Trent 
en  l."ii;4,  die  est  depuis  neiif  siecles  le  droit  com- 
miiu  dans  re^'lise  c.itboliciue  .  .  .  .  ee  iju'il  est 
impossible  de  Justifler  et  meme  d'excnser,  c'est 
le  moyen  employe  par  le  pseudo-Isidore  pour 
arriver  a  se3  &a%."— Etudes  I{eUijieuses,'No.  47,  p. 
3>JL'. 

I'singlass.  A  corruption  of  the 
Dutch  liHiizcubla't  (an  air-bladder),  being 
prepared  from  the  bladders  and  sounds 
of  sturgeon.  (German,  hiii/en^  a  stw 
geon.) 


Isis 


663 


Ismaelians 


I'sls.  Sister- wife  of  Osi'ris.  The 
cow  was  sacred  to  her ;  and  she  is  re- 
presented with  two  long  horns  from  one 
stem  at  the  top  of  her  head.  She  is 
said  to  have  invented  spinning  and 
weaving.     {Egyptian  nujtliolog >j .) 

"  Inventrt'ss  of  the  wnnf,  fair  Lina  [flax]  flincra 
The  Hj  ill!,'  sliiittle  tlini'  the  liaiiciiiK  string's.  .  . 
TauKht  liy  ht'i-  lalioiirs,  from  the  fertile  soil 
Iniuiortal  ]sis  clothed  the  banks  of  Nile." 

Vurwin:  Luves  ufthe  Plants,  c.  ii. 

Milton,  in  Paradise  Lost,  names  Osiris, 
Isis,  and  Orus  amongst  the  fallen  angels 
(book  i.  478). 

Isis,  Herodotos  thinks,  is  Deme'ter 
(Ce'res). 

Diodo'ros  confounds  her  with  the 
Moon,  Demeter,  and  Juno. 

Plutarch  confounds  her  witli  Athe'na 
(Minerva),  Perseph'one  (Prosei-pine) ,  the 
Moon,  and  Te'thys. 

Apule'ius  calls  her  the  mother  of  the 
gods  Minerva,  Venus,  Diana,  Proser- 
pine, Ceres,  Juno,  Bello'na,  Hecate,  and 
Ehamnu'sia  [Nem'esis]. 

Lockj'er  says,  "  Isis  represents  the 
idea  of  rising  or  becoming  visible,  Osiris 
of  disappearing."  Thus  the  rising  moon, 
a  rising  planet,  the  coming  dawn,  etc., 
is  Isis  ;  but  the  setting  sun,  the  waning 
moon,  a  setting  planet,  evening,  etc.,  is 
Osiris. 

•■Now  the  hrisht  iiioonlieams  kissed  the  water, 
....  and  now  the  mountain  and  valle.v,  river 
and  plain,  were  flooded  with  white  li^-'ht,  for 
mother  Isis  was  arisen." — Bidcr  Haggard:  Cleo- 
patra, cliai).  iii. 

*,'  Isis  was  the  mother  of  Horus  (the 
rising  sun) ,  and  is  represented  as  nursing 
Mm. 

Isis.  Some  maintain  that  Isis  was  at 
cue  time  the  protectress  of  Paris,  and 
that  the  word  Paris  is  a  contraction  of 
the  Gi'eek  lara  Isidos  (near  the  temple 
of  Isis),  the  temple  referred  to  being  the 
Pantheon  or  church  of  St.  Genevieve. 
We  are  told,  moreover,  that  a  statue  of 
Isis  was  for  a  long  time  preserved  in  the 
chtirch  of  St.  Gennain  des  Pres,  but  was 
broken  to  jneces  by  Cardinal  Bri^onnet 
because  he  saw  certain  women  offering 
candles  to  it  as  to  the  Virgin. 

The  Young  Isis.  Cleopatra  (69-30  B.C.). 

Islam  or  Islamism.  The  true  faith, 
according  to  the  Mahometan  notion. 
The  Moslems  say  every  child  is  bom  in 
Islam,  and  would  continue  in  the  true 
faith  if  not  led  astray  into  Magism, 
Judaism,  or  Christianity.  The  word 
means  resignation  or  submission  to  the 
tcill  of  God. 

Islam  consists  of  five  duties  t— 

(1)  Bearing'  witness  that  there  is  but  one  God. 

(2)  Recitin.L^  daily  prayers. 

(3J  (Jivinf.'  the  appointed  and  legal  alms. 
(4)  Ohserving  the  Rauiazaa  (a  jjionth's  fast). 


(.5)  Making  a  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  at  least  ouce 
in  a  lifetime. 

'."  Moslem  and  Musulman  are  from  the  same 
root. 

Islamite  (3  sjd.).  A  follower  of 
Mahomet  or  believer  in  Lslam. 

Island  of  Saints.  So  Ireland  was 
called  in  the  Middle  Ages. 

Island  of  St.  Brandan.    The  flying 

island,  the  supposed  retreat  of  King 
Rodii'go.  So  called  from  St.  Brandan, 
who  went  in  search  of  the  Islands  of 
Paradise  in  the  sixth  century. 

Island  of  the    Seven   Cities.     A 

kind  of  Dixie  land,  where  seven  bishops, 
who  quitted  Spain  during  the  dominion 
of  the  Moors,  founded  seven  cities.  The 
legend  says  that  mauj'  have  visited  the 
island,  but  no  oue  has  ever  quitted  it. 

Islands  of  the  Blessed,  called  by 
the  Greeks  "  Happj'  Islands,"  and  by 
the  Eonians  "Fortunate  Islands." 
Imaginary  i-slands  somewhere  in  the 
west,  where  the  favourites  of  the  gods 
are  convej-ed  at  death,  and  dwell  in 
everlasting  joy. 

"  Tlieir  place  of  hirth  alone  is  mute 
To  Sounds  that  echo  farther  west 
Than  your  sire's  Islands  of  the  Blest." 

Byrmi. 

Isle  of  Dogs.  So  called  from  being 
the  receptacle  of  the  greyhounds  of 
Edward  III.  Some  say  it  is  a  corrup- 
tion of  the  IsJe  of  Lucks,  and  that  it  is 
so  called  in  ancient  records  from  the 
number  of  wild  fowl  inhabiting  the 
marshes. 

Isle  of  Lanterns  {The),  or  lan- 
terii-Iaud.  Aa  imaginary  country  in- 
habited by  pretenders  to  knowledge. 
In  French,  Lanternois.  (Rabelais  :  Tan- 
tagruel,  v.  32,  33.) 

V  Lucian  has  a  similar  conceit,  called 
the  Citij  of  Lanterns  ;  and  Dean  Swift, 
in  his  GuUirer'' s  Travels,  makes  his  hero 
visit  Laputa,  the  empire  of  quacks,  false 
l^rojectors,  and  pretenders  to  science. 

Isle  of  Mist  {The).  The  Isle  of  Skye, 
whose  high  hills  are  almost  always 
shrouded  in  mist. 

"  Nor  sleep  tliy  hand  by  thy  side,  chief  of  the  Isle 
of  Mist.''  Vsslan:  Fiiigal,\. 

Islington  (771^  3Iarquis  of).  One  of 
the  skilful  comiianions  of  Barlo'w,  the 
famous  archer,  was  so  christened  by 
Henry  VIII.  {See  Shoeeditch,  The 
Dulce  of.) 

Ismael'ians  {i  sj-1.).  A  Mahometan 
sect,  which  maintained  that  Isma'el,  and 
not  Moussa,  ought  to  be  Imaum'.  In 
the  tenth  century  they  fonned  a  secret 
society,  frorri  w}iich  sprang  the  ^rSsassius, 


Ismene 


GGO 


Italic 


Isme'ne  (3  syl.)  Daughter  of  (E'di- 
pus  and  Jocasta.  Antig'oue  was  buried 
alive  by  the  ordei-  of  King  Creon,  for 
burying  her  brother  Polyui'ces,  skiin  in 
conibat  by  his  brother  Ete'ocles.  Is- 
me'ne dechired  that  she  had  aided  her 
sister,  and  requested  to  be  allowed  to 
sliare  the  same  punishment. 

Ismc'iie.  The  lady-love  of  Ismc'nias, 
iii  the  erotic  romance  of  Eustathius  or 
Eumathius  entitled  Isineiic  and  Ixiiinnris 
(twelftli  century).  Translated  by  God- 
frey of  Vitcrbo.  Especially  noteworthy 
from  its  being  reproduced  in  the  Coii- 
fessio  Aiiifditin  of  Gower,  and  forming 
the  plot  of  Sliakespeare's  I'cncles. 

Ismc'nias.  A  Thcban  musician  of 
whom  Atli'c:is,  King  of  the  Scyth'ians, 
declared,  "I  liked  tlie  music  of  Ismenias 
better  than  the  braying  of  an  ass." 
{flKlatrh.) 

Ismc'no  (in  Jerusalem  T)clirnvd).  A 
magician  wlio  could  "call  spirits  from 
llie  vasty  deep."  Ife  was  once  a  Chris- 
tian, but  became  Mahometan.  Ismeno 
was  killed  by  a  stone  hurled  at  liim  by 
an  engine  (book  xviii.). 

Isobars.  Liues  on  a  map  connecthig 
1  laces  w  Inch  liave  the  same  mean  baro- 
metric pris>ure.  The  closer  the  isobars 
are  tlio  stronger  tlie  wind,  the  farther 
the  lighter.     (Greek,  haruf,  weight.) 

ISDCratcs.  The  French  I.-verafef. 
Fk'cliicr.  Bishop  of  Xismcs  (1C32-1710). 

Is'oldc  (2  syl.).  Wife  of  King  Mark, 
of  Cornwall,  who  had  au  illicit  affection 
for  Sir  Tristram,  Mark's  nephew.  Isolde 
the  White,  Sir  Tristram's  Wife. 

I'sother'mal  Lines.  Lines  laid  down 
in  maps  to  show  the  places  which  have 
the  same  mean  temperature.  (Greek, 
isos  thermos,  equal  lieat.) 

Israel,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Ahsalvm 
and  Aehttopltcl,  stands  for  England. 

Israfil'.  The  angel  of  music,  who 
possessed  the  most  melodious  voice  of  all 
God's  creatures.  This  is  the  angel  who 
is  to  sound  the  llesurrectiou  Trumi),  and 
will  ravish  the  ears  of  the  saints  in  para- 
dise. Israfil,  Gabriel,  and  Michael  were 
the  three  angels  tliat  warned  Abraham 
of  Sodom's  destruction.  {Sale  :  Koran.) 
"A  wiTiLTc'd  hand,  cniiiniandod  liy  Israfil,  tlie 
aii^'i-l  cif  I  lie  rcsiin-cotiuii,  came  to  mei/t  Uolaiid." 
— Cvixjiteiaitdim,  il.  li. 

Issa.    Jesus. 

Is'sachar,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Ab- 
sah)in  (I lid  AeliUopliel,  means  Thomas 
Thynne,  of  Longlcate  Hall,  a  friend  of 
the  Duke  of  Monmouth.     Thyune  was 


assassinated  in  his  carriage,  iu  Pall  Mall, 
by  ruffians  hired  by  Count  Kouiugsmark. 
Ihe  cause  of  the  murder  was  jealousy, 
lioth  Mr.  Thynne  and  the  count  were 
in  love  with  Lady  Elizal)eth  Percy,  the 
widow  of  the  Earl  of  Ogle.  Her  friends 
contracted  her  to  the  rich  commoner, 
but  before  the  match  was  consummated 
Mr.  Thynne  was  murdered.  Within 
three  months  the  lady  married  the  Duke 
of  Somerset.     [See  MoiiUN.) 

Issaehar\s  ears.  Ass's  cars.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  Gen.  xlix.  14  :  "  Issachar  is  a 
strong  ass  crouching  down  between  two 
burdens." 

"  Is't  iinssililr  lliat  Mill,  whnsc  ears 
Are  of  llie  irihe  nf  Issarliar's  .  .  . 
Should  \el  he  deaf  ai-'aiiisl  a  nose 
.So  nianiit:  as  the  inihlic  vo:e<'  ?  " 

,S.  Hdllci-:  JliKhbrtis  lu  Siihitin.ci. 

Issland.  The  kingdom  of  Brunhild 
is  identified  by  Yon  der  Hagen  with  Ice- 
land, l)ut  Wackernagel  says  it  means 
Amazonian  laTid,  and  derives  it  from 
the  Old  German  itis  (a  woman).  {'I'na 
Sibelniiaen  Lied.) 

Issue.  The  point  of  law  in  debate  or 
in  question.     "At  issue,"  under  dispute. 

'lo  join  i.ssne.  To  take  opposite  views 
of  a  question,  or  opposite  sides  iu  a  suit. 

To  Join  issues.  To  leave  a  t-uit  to  the 
decision  of  the  court  because  the  parties 
interested  cannot  agree. 

Isthmian  Games.  FpFom  races 
were  styled  "Our  Jsthmian  (James"' 
by  Lord  Palmerston,  iu  allusion  to  the 
famous  games  consisting  of  chariot 
races,  running,  wrestling,  boxing,  etc., 
held  by  the  Greeks  in  the  Isthmus  of 
Corinth  every  alternate  spring,  the  fiict 
and  third  of  each  Olympiad. 

Isthmus     of    Suez.      The    covered 

bridge  of  St.  John's  College,  Cambridge, 
is  so  cnlled,  because  it  coimects  the  col- 
lege with  the  grounds  on  the  other  side 
of  the  river.  Suez  here  is  a  pun  on  the 
word  siis  (a  liog),  the  Johnians  being 
nicknamed  hoffs  in  University  slang. 

Italian  Architecture.  Tlie  Roman 
architect  me  revived  in  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury, and  in  vogue  during  that  and  the 
two  succeeding  ones.  It  is  divided  into 
three  schools — the  Florentine,  Roman, 
and  Venetian. 

Italian  of  Asia  (The).  Persian  is  so 
called.  Noted  for  its  hnruiony,  and  its 
adaptation  to  verse  and  the  lighter  class 
of  music. 

Italic  School  of  Philosophy.    The 

Pythagore'an,  so  called  because  Pythag'- 
oras  taught  iu  Italy. 


Italic 


667 


Ivan 


Italic  Version.  A  version  of  the 
Bible  from  the  Septuagiiit,  which  pre- 
ceded the  Vulgate,  or  the  version  by  St. 
Jerome. 

Italics.  The  t}'pe  first  used  by  Aide 
Mauuzio  in  priutiiig  the  Aldine  class-ics. 
It  was  called  by  him  "Cursive"  letters 
(a  running  hand ;  from  Latin,  ctirro, 
to  run).  Virgil  was  the  first  author 
printed  in  this  type  (1501).  Francesco 
of  Bologna  cast  it. 

'The  icords  italicised  in  the  Bible  have 
no  corresponding  words  in  the  original. 
The  translators  sui)plied  these  words  to 
render  the  sense  of  the  passage  more 
full  and  clear. 

Italy.  The  champion  of  Italy  was 
St.  Anthony.  {Sccoi  Cliampioiis  of 
Christendom,  part  i.  6.) 

Itch.  Mij  fingers  itch  to  lie  at  him. 
This  is  a  French  locution,  "  Les  poiiKjs 
me  demangeiit  de  le  hattreJ''' 

All  itch  for  gold.  A  longing  desire. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  giecaii,  to  itch.) 

Itching  Ears  {To  hare).  To  have  a 
longing  desire  to  hear  news,  or  some 
novelty. 

"  The  time  will  conic  when  tlipy  will  notendure 
tliesoiinil  doctrine  ;  Iiut.  liavint;  itching  ears,  will 
licap  to  tbeniselves  teacbers after  their  own  lusts 
[nr  hmgings].'— :;  Timothy  iv.  3  (R.\'.). 

Itching  Palm  (An).  A  love  of 
money.  If  the  palm  of  your  right  hand 
itches,  it  betokens  that  you  are  going  to 
receive  money.  So  Melton  tells  us  in 
his  Astrologaster,  p.  23. 

'■  Let  me  tell  you,  C'assius,  you  yourself 
Are  much  condeuined  to  have  an  ilchint;  jialm." 
^luikc.'^liciiie  :  Jitlit(.i  Vic.'tar,  iv.  4. 

Itching  of  the  Eye.  If  the  right 
eye  itches  it  betokens  laughter  at  hand  ; 
if  the  left  eye,  it  betokens  grief ;  but 
Shakespeare  does  not  observe  this  dis- 
tinction. 

"  3Iy  right  eye  itches  now,  so  I  shall  see 
My  love."  1  lieocrituit,  i.  37. 

"Mine  eyes  do  itch  ; 
Doth  that  foreliode  weeping  ? '" 

Uliakestw'i'^  ■'  Othello,  iv.  3. 

Itching  of  the  Lips  indicates  you 
are  about  to  receive  a  kiss,  or  else  kiss 
somebody. 

"  If  your  lips  itch,  you  shall  kisse  somebody." 
—Mtltvn:  Aetroluyiiftcr,  p.  32. 

Itching  of  the  Nose  indicates  that 
you  are  going  to  see  a  stranger. 

"  We  sliall  ha'  guests  to-day 

.  .  .  My  nose  itcbetb  so." 

llckker:  Uuncst  Wlinre. 

Itching  of  the  Thumb,  according  to 
Shakespeare,  betokens  the  approach  of 
evil. 

"  By  the  pricking  of  my  thumbs, 
Souiethiu^'  evil  this  way  comes." 

iliicMh,  iv.  i. 


Ithacen'sian  Suitors  (77(r).  The 
suitors  of  Penelope  (4  syl.),  wife  of 
Ulysses,  King  of  Ithaca.  While  Ulysses 
was  absent,  many  suitors  presented 
themselves  to  Penelope,  affirming  that 
Ulysses  was  certainly  dead.  PenelQpe 
put  them  off,  saying  she  would  give  a 
definite  answer  when  she  had  finished 
the  robe  she  was  weaving  for  Laertes ; 
but  at  night  she  unravelled  all  she  had 
woven  during  the  day.  At  last  Ulysses 
returned  and  slew  the  suitors. 

"  All  the  ladies,  each  and  each. 
Like  the  Ithacensian  suitors  in  old  time. 
Stared  with  great  eyes,  and  laughed  with  alien 

lips."  Teunywn:  The  I'riiicisK.'w. 

Ithu'riel.  One  of  the  angels  com- 
missioned by  Gabriel  to  search  for  Satan, 
who  had  effected  his  entrance  into  Para- 
dise. 1  he  other  angel  who  accompanied 
him  was  Zephou.  (Ithuriel  means  "  the 
discovery  of  God.") 
"  Ithuriel  and  Zephon,  with  winged  speed 
Search  through  this  garden;  leave  uusoarchcd 

no  nook; 
But  chiefly  where   those   two   fair  creatures 

hidge, 
Now  laid  lerhaps  asleep,  secure  of  harm." 

Milton  :  I'dnidint  Lo  t,  boi.k  iv.  7K8-:fll. 

Ithu'riel's  Spear.  The  spear  of  the 
the  angel  Ithuriel,  the  slightest  touch  of 
which  exposed  deceit.  Hence,  when 
Satan  squatted  like  a  toad  "  close  to  the 
ear  of  Eve,"  Ithuriel  only  touched  the 
creature  with  his  spear,  and  it  resumed 
the  form  of  Satan. 

"  Hira  [i.e.  Satan],  thus  intent  Ithuriel  with  bi.i 
spear 
Touched  lightly  ;  for  no  falsehood  can  endure 
Touch  of  celestial  temici-,  but  returns 
Of  force  to  its  own  likeness." 

Milton  :  r<ir<iiliite  Lost,  iv.  MO-si.X 

Itin'erary  {An).  The  notification 
of  the  route  followed  by  a  traveller. 
The  Itinerary  of  Antoninus  marks  out 
all  the  main  roads  of  the  Roman  Empire, 
and  the  stations  of  the  Roman  army. 
The  Itinerary  of  Peutinger  {Tahala 
Fentingeridiia)  is  also  an  invaluable 
document  of  ancient  geography,  exe- 
cuted A.D.  393,  in  the  reign  of  Theodosius 
the  Great,  and  hence  called  sometimes 
the  Theodosian  Table. 

Its  did  not  come  into  use  till  the 
seventeenth  century.  Dean  Trench 
points  out  that  Chatterton  betrayed  his 
forgeries  by  the  line  "  Life  and  its  goods 
I  scorn,"  but  the  word  its  was  not  in 
use  till  several  centuries  after  the  death 
of  the  monk  to  whom  the  words  are 
ascribed.     In  1548  it  was  used  for  its. 

"  The  loue  and  deuotion  towardes  (xod  also  hath 
it  infancie,  and  hath  it  coiuniy  ug  fo.ward  m 
growth  of  age."    (154s.) 

I'van.  The  Russian  foi-m  of  John, 
called  Jnan  in  Sjiain,  (iiuraitni  in 
Italian, 


Ivanhoe 


608 


J.J. 


Iran  the  Terrible.  Ivan  IV.  of  Russia, 
infamous  for  his  cruelties,  but  a  man  of 
great  energy.  He  first  adopted  the  title 
of  czar.     (1529,  1533-1581.) 

I'vanhoe  (3  syl.).  Sir  Wilfred,  kuight 
of  Ivanhoe,  is  the  disinherited  son  of 
Cedric  of  llotherwood.  He  is  tirst  intro- 
duced as  a  pilgrim,  in  which  guise  he 
enters  his  father's  hall,  where  he  meets 
Ilowe'na.  He  next  appears  as  Des- 
dichado,  the  "  Disinherited  Knight," 
in  the  grand  tournament  where  he  van- 
qiushes  all  opponents.  At  tlie  inter- 
cession of  King  Richard  he  is  reconciled 
to  his  father,  and  ultimately  marries 
Rowena,  his  father's  ward.  Rebecca, 
the  Jew's  daughter,  to  whom  he  had 
shown  many  acts  of  kindness,  was  in 
love  witli  him. 

Sir  Walter  Scott  took  the  name  from 
the  village  of  Ivanhoe,  or  Iviughoe,  in 
Bucks,  a  line  in  a  old  rhymed  jjroverb 
■ — "  Tring,  King,  and  Ivanhoe" — having 
attracted  his  attention. 

Ivanovitch.  A  lazy,  good-natured 
per:-ou,  the  national  impersonation  of 
the  Russians  as  a  people,  as  Julai  Bull  is 
of  the  English,  Brotlier  Jonathan  of  the 
Americans,  Jean  Crapaud  of  the  Frencli, 
and  Vouain  Michael  of  the  Germans. 

Ivories.    Teeth ;  dice. 

To  ahoic  one'' is  icories.  To  disjilay  one's 
teeth. 

To  wash  one^s  ivories,  lo  rinse  the 
mouth ;  to  diink. 

Ivory  Gate  of  Dreams  (The). 
Dreams  which  delude  jiass  through  this 
pate,  those  which  come  true  pass  through 
the  Gate  of  Horn.  This  faucy  depends 
upon  two  puns :  ivory  in  Greek  is  eK- 
phiis,  and  the  verb  efephairo  means  "to 
cheat  with  empty  hopes  ;  "  the  Greek 
for  horn  is  keras,  and  the  verb  Jcarai/oo 
means  "  to  accomplish." 

"  Sunt  geniina;  somni  jicirtas :  qnaruni  altera fertiir 
I'ornea,  niia  vens  fai-ilis  datiir  exitus  uinhris  ; 
Altera  candenti  perfccta  lutiMis  eli'i'liaiito  ; 
Sed  falsa  ad  coelum  iiiittunt  iiisiiniDi.i  inaufs." 
Viryil:  .Eficid,  vi,  vj4-si»7. 

Ivory  Palaces  are  not  unfrequently 
mentioned  in  the  Old  Testament.  Thus 
(Psalm  xlv.  8),  "All  thy  gamients 
smell  of  myrrh,  aloes,  and  cassia,  out  of 
the  ivory  palaces  ;  "  in  1  Kings  xxii.  39 
we  read  that  Ahab  built  ' '  an  ivory 
house;"  and  in  Amos  iii.  15  we  read, 
"  I  will  smite  the  winter-house  with  the 
summer-house,  and  the  houses  of  ivory." 
Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montague,  in  her 
letters,  sj^eaks  of  the  ivory  fittings  of 
the  harem  of  the  Kahya's  palace  at 
Adrianople,      She    says,    "Its    winter 


apartments  are  wainscotted  with  inlaid 
work  of  mother-of-pearl  and  ivory  of 
different  colours "  (vol.  ii.  p.  lGl-162). 

"Tbe  ceilings  of  tUo  Eastern  lien  ses  are  (if 
mosaic  work,  and  for  the  most  part  of  ivory, 
like  tliose  superl)  Talaar  of  Persia."— «.  Joliit 
Chardin. 

Ivory  Shoulder.  Demeter  ate  the 
shoulder  of  Pelops,  served  up  by  Tan- 
taios  ;  f  o  when  the  gods  restored  the 
body  to  life,  Demeter  supplied  the 
lacking  shoulder  with  one  of  ivory. 

'■Not  I'c'lops'  sliMiildcr  whiter  than  her  liamls." 
ir.  llruiine:  nritaiiiiiiCs  Pii^tiirah,  ii.3. 

Ivy  (Old  English,  ijit/).  Dedicated  to 
Bacchus  from  the  notion  that  it  is  a 
preventive  of  drtmkenness.  But  whether 
the  Dionysian  ivy  is  the  same  plant  as 
that  which  we  call  in/  is  doubtful,  as  it 
was  famous  for  its  golden  berries,  and 
was  termed  chri/so-carpos. 

Ivy  (in  Christian  art).  Symbol  of 
everlasting  life,  from  its  remaining  con- 
tinually green.  An  ivy  wreath  was  the 
prize  of  the  Isth'raian  games,  till  it  was 
superseded  by  a  pine  garland.  The 
plant  was  sacred  to  Bacchus  and  Osi'ris. 

Ivy  Bush.  Like  an  owl  in  an  ivy- 
bush.  Having  a  sapient,  vacant  look,  as 
some  persons  have  when  in  their  cups  ; 
having  a  stupid  vacant  stare.  Owls  are 
proverbial  for  their  judge-like  solemnity, 
and  ivy  is  the  f avoui-ite  plant  of  Bacchus. 
Gray,  in  his  Elecjy,  refers  to  the  Owl 
and  the  Ivy. 

"From  yonder  ivy-mantled  tower 
The  mopine  owl  doth  to  the  moon  complain 
Of  such  as,  wandering  near  her  secret  bower, 
Molest  her  aucieut  solitary  reign." 

Stanzas. 

Ivy  Lane  (London).  So  called  from 
the  houses  of  the  prebendaries  of  St. 
Paul,  overgrown  with  ivy,  which  once 
stood  there. 

Ixi'on.  A  king  of  the  LapitliEE, 
liound  to  a  revolving  wheel  of  fire  in 
the  Infernal  regions,  for  his  impious 
presumption  in  trying  to  imitate  the 
thunder  of  heaven.     {Greek  mi/thoIofi>/.) 

V  The  treadmill  is  sometimes  called 
"Ixion's  Wheel." 


J.  (In  Punch).  The  signature  of 
Douglas  Jerrold,  who  first  contributed 
to  No.  9  of  the  series. 

J.  J.  (In  Hogarth's  Gin  Lane,  writ- 
ten on  a  gibbet),  is  intended  for  Sir 
Joseph  Jekyll,  obnoxious  for  his  bill  fof 
increasing  the  dutj^  on  giu, 


Jaafer 


^69 


Jack 


Jaafer.  At  the  battle  of  Muta,  Jaafer 
carried  the  sacred  banner  of  "the  Pro- 
phet." One  hand  being  lopped  off,  he 
held  it  with  the  other ;  the  other  being 
struck  off.  he  embraced  it  with  his  two 
stumps ;  his  head  being  cleft  in  twain, 
he  flung  himself  on  the  banner  staff,  and 
the  banner  was  detained  thus  till  Ab- 
dallah  seized  it  and  handed  it  to  Khaled. 
A  similar  tale  is  told  of  Cyuaeglros  {q.v.). 

Ja'chin.  The  parish  clerk  in  Crabbe's 
Boroiii/h.  He  appropriated  the  sacra- 
mental money,  and  died  disgi'aced. 

Jachin.     {_Sce  BoAZ.) 

Jack. 

I.  Applied  to  men,  but  always  de- 
preciatingly.    (.SVcToM.) 

(1)  Jack  Adams.     A  fool. 

(2)  Jack-a-datuhj  {q.v.). 

(3)  Jack-a-drcaiHS.  A  man  of  inaction, 
a  mere  dreamer. 

(4)  Jack-a-dro(/ncs.  A  good-natured, 
lazy  fool.  (Dutch,  druilcn,  to  be  listless  ; 
our  drawl.) 

(5)  Jack-a-Lent.  A  half -starved,  sheep- 
ish booby.  Shakespeare  says  :  ' '  You 
little  Jack-a-lent,  have  you  been  true  to 
us?"     {Merry  Wives  of  IVlndsor,  ni.  'i.) 

A  kind  of  Aunt  Sally  which  was 
thrown  at  in  Lent.  (See  Cleveland's 
Fuems  [1660],  p.  64.) 

(6)  Jack-a-napes  (q.v.). 

(7)  Jack-at-a-phu'/i.  One  who  lends 
a  hand  in  an  emergency ;  an  itinerant 
clergyman  who  has  no  cure,  but  ottici- 
ates  for  a  fee  in  any  church  where  his 
assistance  is  required. 

(8)  Jack  Brag.     (See  Beao.) 

(9)  Jack  Fool.  More  generally,  Tom 
"Fool  {q.v.). 

(10)  Jack  Ketch  {q.v.). 

(11)  Jack-pudding  {q.v.). 

(12)  Jack-sancc.  An  insolent  sauce- 
box, "the  worst  Jack  of  the  pack." 
Fluellen  says  one  who  challenges  another 
and  refuses  to  fight  is  a  "Jack-sauce." 
{Hoiry  v.,  iv.  7.) 

(13)  Jack -snip.     A  botching  tailor. 

(14)  Jack-slave.  "Every  Jack-slave 
hath  his  belly  full  of  fighting."  {Shake- 
speare :   Cymbeltne,  ii.  1.) 

(15)  Jack-sprat  {q.v.). 

(16)  Jack-straw.    A  peasant  rebel. 

(17)  Jack-tar  {q.v.). 

(18)  Jack-in-office.  A  conceited  official, 
or  upstart,  who  presumes  on  his  official 
appointment  to  give  himself  airs. 

(19)  Jack-in-tlie-greei).  A  chimney- 
sweep boy  in  the  midst  of  boughs,  on 
May  Day. 

(20)  Jack-in-thc-xvaler.  An  attendant 
at  the  waterman's  stairs,  etc.,  willing  to 


wet  his  feet,  if   needs  be,  for  a  "  few 
coppers." 

(21)  Jack-of -all-trades.  One  who  can 
turn  his  hand  to  anything,  but  excels  in 
nothing. 

(22)  Jack-of-both-sides.  One  who  tries 
to  favour  two  antagonistic  parties,  either 
from  fear  or  for  profit. 

(23)  Jack-oHt-of-ojfice.  "  But  long  I 
will  not  be  Jack-out-of-office."  {Shake- 
speare :  1  Henry  VI.,  i.  1.) 

(24)  Cheap  Jack.     {See  Cheap.) 

(25)  Jack  tcill  never  be  a  gentleman, 
A  mere  parvenu  will  never  be  hke  a 
well-bred  gentleman. 

(26)  Every  man-Jack  of  them.  All 
without  exception,  even  the  most  in- 
significant. 

(27)  licmemhcr  poor  Jack.  Throw  a 
copper  to  the  boys  paddling  about  the 
jetty  or  pier,  or  perfonning  tricks  under 
the  hope  of  getting  a  small  bounty. 

II.  Applied  to  boys  who  act  the 

PAET    OF   MEN. 

(1)  Jack  Frost.  Frost  personified  as 
a  mischievous  boy. 

(2)  Jack  Sprat.  Who  bears  the  same 
relation  to  a  man  as  a  sprat  does  to  a 
mackerel  or  herring. 

(3)  Jack  and  Jill  (nursery  rhyme). 
Jill  or  Gill  is  a  contraction  of  Julienne 
or  Gillian,  a  common  Norman  name. 
(Sec  Jack,  VII.) 

(4)  Jack  and  the  Bean  -stalk  {q.v.). 

(5)  Jack  and  the  Fiddler  {q.v.). 

(6)  Jack  of  cards.  The  Knave  or  boy 
of  the  king  and  queen  of  the  same  suit. 

(7)  Jack  the  Gia)>t-k>llcr  {q.v.). 

(8)  Glymjack.  A  link  boy  who  carries 
aglym.  {Gevman,  gli)i/mcn.)  {Sec  Gi.i'K.) 

(9)  Little  Jack  Horner.       {See    Jace 

HOEXEE.) 

(10)  The  house  that  Jack  built  (nui'sery 
tale). 

III.  Applied  to  the  males  oe  ix- 
FEEiOE  animals  :  as — 

Jack-ass,  Jack-baker  (a  kind  of  owl\ 
Jack  or  dog  fox,  Jack-hare,  Jack-hern, 
Jack-rat,  Jack-shark,  Jack-snipe  ;  a 
young  pike  is  called  a  Jack,  so  also  wera 
the  male  biixls  used  in  falconry. 

IV.  Applied  to  insteuments  which 
supply  the  place  of  or  represent  inferior 
men  or  boys  : — 

(1)  A  jack.  Used  instead  of  a  turn- 
spit boy,  generally  called  Jack. 

(2)  A  jack.  Used  for  lifting  heavy 
weights. 

(3)  Jack.  The  figure  outside  old 
public  clocks  made  to  strike  the  bell. 

"  strike  like  Jack  o'  tbe  clock-liouse,  never  but 
in  seasun."— S()C<d« ;  Floatimj  Island, 


Jack 


670 


Jack 


(4)  Jack-roJI.  The  C3'lincler  round 
■which  the  rope  of  a  well  coils. 

(5)  Jiuk-in-the-baskct.  The  cap  or 
basket  on  the  top  of  a  pole  to  indicate 
the  place  of  a  sandbank  at  sea,  etc. 

(G)  J«ck-iiif/u'-l)o.r.  A  toy  consistinfr 
of  a  box  out  of  which,  when  the  lid  is 
raised,  a  figure  springs. 

(7)  B(jot-jack.  An  instrument  for 
drawing  off  boots,  which  used  to  be 
done  by  inferior  servants. 

(8)  Bottlc-JM-k.  A  machine  for  turn- 
ing the  roast  instead  of  a  turnspit. 

(9)  Lifiinff-jack.  A  machine  for  lift- 
ing the  axle-tree  of  a  carriage  when  the 
wheels  are  cleaned. 

(10)  lloasiinii-jnck.  {See  Boilh'-Jatk,8.) 

(11)  Smoke-jack.  An  apparatus  in  a 
ehiiiine)'-iiue  for  turning  a  spit.  It  is 
made  to  revolve  by  the  upward  current 
of  smoke  and  air. 

(12)  Jack-chain.  A  small  chain  for 
turning  the  sjiit  of  a  smoke-jack. 

y.  Applied  to  inteeige  APvTicLrs 
■wliich  bear  the  same  relation  to  the 
thing  imitated  as  Jack  does  to  a  geutle- 
:nan. 

(I)  Jack.  A  rough  stool  or  wooden 
horse  for  sawing  tindier  on. 

{'!)  Jack.  A  small  drinking  vessel 
made  of  waxed  leather. 

"Bixly  of  inc.  I  iim  ilry  still  ;  Rive  me  the  jack, 
hf)y."—Ileauniont  and  t'lHcUvr:  Bloudy  liiutlier,  ji.v. 

(3)  Jack.  Inferior  kind  of  armour. 
{See  Jack,  No.  VIII.) 

(4)  A  Jack  and  a  half-jack.  Counters 
resembling  a  sovereign  and  a  half- 
sovereign.  Used  at  gaming-tables  to 
make  up  a  show  of  wealth. 

(o)  Jack-block.  A  block  attached  to 
the  topgallant-tie  of  a  ship. 

(C)  Jack-lioofs.  Cumbrous  boots  of 
tough,  thick  leather  worn  by  fishermen. 
Jacks  or  armour  for  the  legs. 

(7)  Jack-pan.  A  vessel  used  bj'  bar- 
bers for  heating  water  for  their  cus- 
tomers. 

(8)  Jack-plane.  A  menial  plane  to  do 
the  rough  work  for  finer  instruments. 

(9)  Jack-rafter.  A  rafter  in  a  hipped 
roof,  shorter  than  a  full-sized  one. 

(10)  Jack-rib.  An  inferior  rib  in  an 
arch,  being  shorter  than  the  rest. 

(II)  Jack-screa-.  A  large  screw  rotat- 
ing in  a  threaded  socket,  used  for  lifting 
heavy  weights. 

(12)  Jack-tinihers.  Timbers  in  a  build- 
ing shorter  than  the  rest. 

(13)  Jack-toirel.  A  coarse,  long  towel 
hung  on  a  roller,  for  the  servants'  use. 

(14)  Jack  of  Dover  {q.r.). 
(lo)  Jacket  {qv.). 


(16)  Blackjack.  A  huge  driiiking 
vessel.  A  Frenchman  speaking  of  it 
says,  "The  English  drink  cut  of  their 
boots."     {Ilci/nooil.) 

VI.  A  TERM  OF  CONTEMPT. 

(1)  Jack-a-lantern  or  Jack-o^Jantcrn, 
the  fool  tire  {ignis  fataas). 

(2)  Jack-ass.     An  unmitigated  fool. 

(3)  Jack-ttt-hoivls.  Ihe  butt  of  all 
the  players. 

{\)  Jack-daw.     A  prating  nuisance. 
(•i)  Jack  Drnni's  entcrtatnniott  ('/.>'.). 
(())  Jackei/.     A  monkey. 

(7)  Skip-jack.     A  toy.  an  ujistai  t. 

(8)  The  blackjack,     the  tuniip-llv. 

(9)  The i/ellou- jack.  The  yellt.w  fi'vcr. 

VII.  Used  in  peovkebial  piieases. 

U  A  good  Jack  makes  a  good  Jill.  A 
good  husband  makes  a  good  wife,  a  good 
master  makes  a  good  servant.  Jack,  a 
generic  name  for  man,  liu.sband,  or 
master ;  and  Gill  or  Jill,  liis  wife  or 
female  servant. 

Ererij  Jack  shall  hare  his  Jill.  Every 
man  may  find  a  wife  if  he  likes  ;  or 
rather,  every  countrj'  rustic  shall  find  a 
lass  to  be  his  mate. 

"  .lark  sliall  have  hU  .lill, 
NoiiKht  shall  t'"  ill  ; 
Tlip  man  shall  have  his  male  atfaiii,  and  all  ^hall 
If  well." 
t'lKii.iKiieiire  :  Mklsiiinn:er  Xiiilit's  L'retnu,  iii.  "J. 

To  play  the  Jack.  To  jilaj'  the  rogue 
or  knave  ;  to  deceive  or  lead  astraj'  likt  i 
Jack-o'-lantern,  or  ignis  J'atans. 

" your  fairy,  which  yon  say  is  a  harmh-ss 

fairy,  has  dune  liitle  better  than  jdayed  the  Jack 
Mitli  US."— .S7/(i/.('.sj.«i)e;  Teiiii>e>it,\\.\. 

To  be  upon  their  jacks.  To  have  tlie 
advantage  over  one.  The  reference  is 
to  the  coat  of  mail  quilted  with  stout 
leather,  more  recently  called  a  jerkin. 

VIII.  Jack.  Armour  consisting  of  a 
leather  siircoat  worn  over  the  hauberk, 
from  the  fourteenth  to  the  seventeenth 
century,  both  inclusive.  It  was  formetl 
by  overlapping  pieces  of  steel  fastened 
by  one  edge  upon  canvas,  coated  over 
with  cloth  or  velvet.  In  short,  it  was 
a  surcoat  padded  with  metal  to  make  it 
sword-proof.  These  jazerines  were 
worn  by  the  peasantry  of  the  Engli-sh 
borders  wiien  they  journeyed  from 
place  to  place,  and  in  their  skirmi.shes 
with  moss-troopers. 

"  .lackes  quilted  and  covered  over  with  leathtr, 
fustian,  or  can\as,  over  tliicke  ].|ates  of  iron  that 
are  so>ved  to  the  same."— ii/y  .-  EiipUiies. 

%  Colonel  Jack.  The  hero  of  Defoe's 
novel  so  called.  He  is  a  thief  who  goes 
to  Virginia,  and  becomes  the  owner  of 
vast  plantations  and  a  family  of  slaves. 


Jack-a-iDandy 


G71 


Jack  o'  the  Bowl 


Jack-a-Dandy.  A  term  of  endear- 
meut  for  a  smart,  bright  little  fellow  ;  a 
Jenuny  Jessamy. 

"  Smart  slie  is,  and  liaiidv.  O  1 
Sweet  as  sutfai-caiidy,  ()  !  .  .  . 
Aud  I'm  ber  Jack-a-da!idy,  () !  " 

Jack  -  CI  -  (hnuhj.     Slang   for    brandy. 

Dandy  rhymes  with  brandy.  {See  CiHTY. ) 

V    In       Ireland      "  dandy  "     means 

whisky  ;  but  whisky  =  eau  de  vie  ;  and 

eau  de  vie  is  brandy. 

"  Dimidium  cyatlii  vero  ainid  Mctlirnp  >l'ta  los 
Ht-riieniicns  dicitur  D.iiidy. "— /J/'H^icoot/s  il,uja- 
ziiie,  Jl.iy,  l!<i(«  (Father  Turn  and  the  I'oiie). 

Jack-a-Lantern  (A).  A  Will-o'- 
the-wis]!,  au  ujiiis  fatiiiis. 

Jack-a-napes    or   Jackanapes    = 

Jack  of  apo.s.  An  impertinent,  vulgar 
prig.    (.Vr jEiNNOT.) 

More  likely,  it  is  Jdl:  and  npr, 
formed  on  the  model  of  Jack-ass,  a 
stupid  fool. 

••  1  will  to>r'.i  a  s.-iirvy  jackanape  priest  tn 
liio  Idle  iir  iiiaki'."— .S/Ki/.fx/xiire.-  ilrrnj  Wives  nf 
Wiiiii^.u-.  i.  \. 

Jack-Amend-All.  One  of  tlie  nick- 
names given  to  Jack  Cade  the  rebel, 
who  promised  to  remedy  all  abuses. 

Jack  Brag.     (.SV,'  Brag.) 

Jack  Drum's  Entertainment.    A 

bt>ating.     (■V'l  John  Drum's,  etc) 

Jack  Horner.  For  solution  see 
Nittes  and  Qiiertcx,  xvi.  loG;  xvii.  8J. 
In  Latin  alcaics,  thus  : 

"  Si'den-i  J.dianiK's  parvus  In  ancriilo 
H.irnariis  edit  cnistula  Christniica  ; 
Et  dixit,  lit  pviui.i  I'MiMliciKit 
Follice,  •y\iani  sinri  <>.'.i  sin  vis  in  fans  !'" 
The  Uneulii  IlcraUi,  Jan.  13,  lfi3i. 

Jack  Ketsh.  Although  this  looks 
very  much  like  a  sobriquet,  there  seems 
no  sufficient  evidence  to  believe  it  to  be 
otherwise  than  a  real  proper  name.  We 
are  told  that  the  name  Jack  was  applied 
to  hangmen  from  Kichard  Jaqiiett,  to 
■whom  the  manor  of  T3buru  once  be- 
longed.     {See  HAXOilEX.) 

Jack  Padding.  A  buffoon  who  per- 
forms pudding  tricks,  such  as  swallow- 
ing a  certain  number  of  yards  of  black- 
pud  ling.  S.  Bishop  observes  that  each 
country  names  its  stage  buffoon  fi-om  its 
favourite  viands  :  The  Dutchman  calls 
him  I'lck  -l-Iicn-Difje  ;  the  Germans,  ILans 
ll'/ii-.st  (John Sausage)  ;  the  Freuchman, 
Jea.-/  I'otaf/e  :  the  Italian,  Macaru'nl ; 
and  the  English,  Jcwk  riiddinrj. 

Jack  Robinson.  Before  you  can  say 
Jack  lioh'ut.son.  Immediately.  Grose 
says  that  the  saying  had  its  birth  from 
a  veiy  volatile  gentleman  of  that  name, 


■who  used  to  pay  flying  visits  to  his 
neighbours,  and  was  no  sooner  an- 
nounced than  he  was  off  again  ;  but  the 
following  couplet  does  not  confirm  this 
derivation  : — 

"  A  warke  it  ys  as  easie  tn  lie  dnno 
As  tvs  to  save  Jachr :  rubi/s  iiii." 
Ah  old  Plan,  '■iteU  by  Uulliietll :  Arch.  Dirt. 

Jack  Sprat.  A  dwarf  ;  as  if  spiuts 
were  dwarf  mackerels.  Children,  by  a 
similar  metaphor,  are  called  t-mall  frj'. 

Jack  Tar.  A  common  sailor,  whose 
hands  and  clothes  are  tarred  by  the  ship 
tackling. 

Jack   and   the    Bean   Stalk.     A 

nursery  tale  of  Gennau  invention.  The 
giant  is  All-Father,  whoso  three 
treasures  are  (1)  a  liarp — i.e.  the  wind; 
(2)  bags  full  of  treasures — i.e.  the  rain  ; 
and  Qi)  the  red  hen  which  laid  golden 
eggs — tliat  is,  the  genial  sun.  Man 
avails  himself  of  these  treasures  and 
becomes  rich. 

Jack  of  all  Trades  is  Master  of 
None.  In  Freucli,  '•  1'ottt  utiiotr  est  )te 
rien  saroir.'' 

Jack  o'  both  Sides.  A  supernu- 
merary who  plays  on  both  sides  to  make 
up  a  pai'ty  ;  one  wlio  for  j^rofit  or  policy 
is  quite  colourless. 

Jack  o'  the  Clock.  Tlie  figure 
which  conies  out  to  strike  the  liours  on 
the  bell  of  a  clock.  A  contraction  of 
Jaquemart  {q.i'.). 

"  Kiiiii  Richard.  ■Well,  liut  wlial's  o'clock  ? 

IliicLiiiyham.  Upon  the  stroke  of  ten. 
K.  R.  Well,  let  it  strike. 

/(.  Wliy  let  it  strike  ? 
K.  R.  Because  that,  like  a  jack,  tbou  kcep'st  the 

stroke 
Betwixt  thv  liecrsins:  and  niv  meditation." 
Shatfsjnare:  Richard  lU.,  iv.  L'. 

Jack  of  Dover.  A  stockfish,  "  hake 
salted  and  dried."  The  L.atin  for  a 
hake  is  incrliicitts^  and  lucius  is  a  jack  or 
pike.  Mer,  of  course,  means  the  sea, 
and  Dove;-,  tlie  chief  Cinque  Port,  is 
used  as  a  sj-nonym.  Also  refuse  wine 
collected  into  a  bottle  and  sold  for  fresh 
wine.  "  To  rfo-orc)' again."   (.S't'^Do^VEE.) 

"  Many  a  Jack  of  Dover  hnstow  sold 
Tiiat  hath  been  twvcs  hot  and  Iwves  cold." 
Chancer:  Vantcrbarii  Talef. 

Jack  of  Newbury.  Jolm  Winch- 
comb,  the  greatest  clothier  of  the  world, 
in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  He  kept 
100  looms  in  his  own  house  at  Xewbury, 
and  equipped  at  his  own  expense  100  of 
his  men  to  aid  the  king  against  the 
Scotch  in  Flodden  Field. 

Jack  o'  the  Bo-wL  Tlie  most  fa- 
mous brownie  or  house-spirit  of  Switzer- 
land ;  so  called  from  the  custom  of  placing 


^'ack  Out  of  Office 


6-/2 


Jacobinfi 


for  him  every  night  on  the  roof  of  the 
cow-house  a  bowl  of  fresh  sweet  cream. 
The  contents  of  this  bowl  are  sure  to 
disiii)i)car  before  nioruiug. 

Jack  Out  of  Office.     One  no  longer 
in  office. 
"  I  am  left  out  :  for  nie  notbins  remain!". 
Bui  liifii.'  1  will  iii>t  1.1"  J«rk-iiiit-(>f-.)m<'i-." 

.Sliiihei<iieiire :  1  llciinj  I'/.,  i.  I. 

Jack  the  Giant-killer  owed  much 
of  liis  suclcss  to  his  four  marvellous 
possessions — an  invisible  coat,  a  cap  of 
wisdom,  shoes  of  swiftness,  and  a  resist- 
less sword.  Wlion  he  jiut  on  his  coat  no 
eye  could  see  him  ;  wlien  he  had  his 
shoes  on  no  one  could  overtake  him  ;  his 
sword  would  cut  through  everything; 
and  when  iiis  cap  was  on  he  knew  every- 
thing ho  re(iiiired  to  know.  Yonge  &iys 
the  story  is  bused  on  tlie  Scandinavian 
tale  of  Thor  and  Loki,  while  Masson 
maintains  it  to  be  a  nursery  version  of 
the  feats  of  Coriii'eus  in  Geoffrev'  of 
Monmoutlis  marvellous  history.  I  ap- 
prehend that  neither  of  these  sugges- 
tions will  find  many  supporters. 

V  Military  success  dej)ends  (1)  on  an 
invisible  coat,  or  secrecy,  not  letting  the 
foe  know  your  ])lans ;  (2)  a  mp  of 
wisdom,  or  wise  counsel ;  (15)  shms  of 
swiftness,  or  attacking  the  foe  before  he 
is  })re[)ared  ;  and  (4)  a  resistUss  stcorcf, 
or  dauntless  courage. 

Jack  the  Ripper.  An  unknown 
person  wiio  so  called  himself,  and  com- 
mitted a  senes  of  murdei-s  in  the  East 
End  of  London  on  common  prostitutes. 

The  (Irst  wni  Ai'ril  L'ml,  Imxw  :  llii-  n^xt  was 
Aii-'ust  Till;  llic  third  was  Aii'-'usi  .'ilsi  :  the 
fiiiirtli  was  S.-i>lciiilier  Mil  ;  tlie  llflll  wasScpiiMii- 
bci- :tiitli.  wIkmi  iwi)  wiimeii  were  immli'n'il  ;  ilie 
Bixlli  «as  Xiiveilil.iM'  !>tli  ;  the  sovciitli  was  l)e- 
ceiMlMT  •-11,  li,  ill  a  liiiilili'i-'s  janl  ;  tlie  eit'lith  was 
.iLily  17tli,  iHS'i.  at  WljitecMiai'el  ;  the  iiiiilh  Was 
SepH'iiihtM-  irth. 

Jack  and  James.  Jewish,  Jacob; 
Frencli,  Jacijins,  our  "  Jack,"  and 
Jacqiiviiirs,  our  ''James."  Jacques  used 
to  be  the  commonest  name  of  France, 
hcncG  the  insurrection  of  the  conunon 
people  was  termed  the  insurrection  of 
the  Jacques,  or  the  Jucqucrie ;  and  a 
rustic  used  to  be  called  a  Jacques  Ion 
hommc.     The  Scotch  call  Jack  Juck. 

Jackal.  A  toadv*.  One  who  does 
the  dirty  work  of  another.  It  was  once 
thought  tliat  the  jackals  hunted  in 
troops  to  provide  the  lion  with  pre}', 
hence  they  were  called  the  "  lion's  pro- 
viders." Xo  doubt  the  lion  ■will  at  times 
avail  himself  of  the  jackal's  assistance 
by  appropriating  prey  started  by  these 
"himters,"   but  it    would  be  folly  to 


suppose  that  the  jackal  acted  on  the 
principle  of  los  non  vobis.  {JSce  Honey- 
comb.) 

Jacket.  Tlie  French  jaqucttc,  "  little 
jack,"  a  translation  of  the  German 
Maiisehiie,  a  sloj)  cut  short. 

Jacket.  The  skin  of  a  potato.  Pota- 
toes brouglit  to  tiible  unpeeled  arc  said 
to  he  "  with  their  jackets  on." 

'To  dust  o)ic^s  jacket.     {See  DuST.) 

Jackson.     {See  Stonkwali..) 

Jacksonian  Professor.  The  jiro- 
fcssor  of  natural  and  experimental  jihi- 
Idsopliy  in  the  I'nivcisity  of  Cambridge. 
This  ])i()f('ss(>ishi]»  « as  foiinded  in  ITS-l 
by  the  Kcv.  Hirhaid  JarkMin. 

Jacob  the  Scourge  of  Grammar. 

Giles  Jacob,  master  of  iJomsey,  in 
Hampshire,  brought  up  for  an  attorney. 
A  poetaster  in  the  time  of  I^ojie.  (See 
Duiiciad,  iii.) 

Jacob's  Ladder.  A  ladder  seen  by 
the  patriarch  .lacub  in  a  vision.  It  was 
set  on  the  earth,  and  reached  to  heaven, 
and  angels  seemed  to  be  ascending  and 
descending  on  it  (Gen.  .xxviii.  VI). 
Jacob  is,  on  this  account,  a  cant  name 
for  a  lailder.  There  is  a  pretty  blue 
flower  so  called. 

Jacob's   Staff.     An   instrument  for 
taking  laights  and  distances. 
"  K«irli  llii-ii  asdaiiiii.' ijiiill,  that  I  may  write 
As  with  a  Jai-iih's  Hlaft  In  take  her  heii-'lil." 
C/<t¥/oiirf  ;  The  llicutim.b  In  /.i/<  Mifli;«ii. 

Tlie  Apostle  James  is  usually  repre- 
sented with  a  staff. 

"A?  lie  had  iravidled  many  a  Riininirr"s  day 
Thnmu'li  boihiii.-  winds  of  Anihie  ami  VliU  ; 
And  in  liis  haiiil  a  .lai'nli'K  staff  tu  suiy 

ili-i  we;iiv  liini>s  ii|Hin. " 
S/K  IIS,  r :  Fiieni  (jiimir.  honk  i.  canto  vi.  3:;-3j. 

Jacob's  Stone.  The  stone  inclosed 
in  the  cfironation  chair  of  Great  Britain, 
brought  from  Scone  by  Eilward  I.,  and 
said  to  be  the  stone  on  which  the  i)atri- 
arch  Jacob  laid  his  head  when  he  dreamt 
about  the  ladder  referred  to  above. 

Tliis  stone  was  originally  used  in 
Ireland  as  a  coronation  stone.  It  was 
called  "Innisfail,"  or  Stone  of  Destiny. 
(6'ee  CoEOXATiON  Cuaih.) 

Jacobins.  The  Dominicans  were  so 
called  in  France  from  the  "  Kue  St. 
Jacques,"  Paris,  where  they  fiist  esta- 
blished themselves  in  1219. 

Jacobins.  A  political  club,  originally 
called  the  Club  Breton,  formed  at  Ver- 
sailles in  17f<9.  On  their  removal  to 
Paris,  they  met  in  the  hall  of  an  ex- 
convent  of  Jacobms  {see  above),  in  the 
Eue  St.  Honor^. 


Jacobites 


673 


Jamainbuxes 


Jacobites  (3  syl.).  The  partisans  of 
James  II.  (wheu  William  III.  supei'seded 
hiin),  his  sou,  and  gi'andson. 

Jacobites,  ni<'kiianied  IJ'arinbig-panx. 
It  is  said  that  Mary  d'Este,  the  wife  of 
James  II.,  never  had  a  living  child,  but 
that  on  one  occasion  a  child,  introduced 
to  her  bedroom  in  a  warming-pan,  was 
substituted  for  her  dead  infant.  This 
"warming-pan  cliild"  was  the  Pre- 
tender. Such  is  the  tale,  the  truth  is 
quite  another  matter. 

Jiic'iJiitefi.  An  Oi-icntal  sect  of 
Monoph'j-sites,  so  called  from  Jaco'bus 
Baradams  (Jacoub  Al-Baradei),  Bishop 
of  Edes.sa,  in  Syria,  in  the  sixth  century. 

Jaco'bus.  A  gold  coin  of  the  value 
of  'I'm.,  struck  in  the  reign  of  James  I. 

Jacquard  Loom.  So  called  from 
Jos.  Marie  Jac(iuard,  of  Lyons,  who  in- 
vented tliis  ingenious  device  for  weaving 
figures  upon  silks  and  muslins.  (17o2- 
1S31.) 

JacQUCline  (of  Paris).  A  bell 
weighing  l.'),OuO  lbs.,  cast  iu  1 100. 

Jacquerie  {L(i).  An  insurrection 
of  tlie  peasantry  of  France  in  l.'JoS,  ex- 
cited by  the  oppressions  of  tlie  privileged 
classes  and  Charles  the  Bad  of  Navari-e, 
while  King  Jean  was  a  prisoner  iu  Eng- 
land. When  the  peasants  complained, 
and  asked  who  was  to  redress  their 
grievances,  they  were  told  in  scoru 
jitc'incs  Bo)iliiii)iine  (Johnny  Goodman), 
i.e.  no  one.  At  length  a  leader  appeared, 
called  himself  Jacques  Bonhomnie,  and 
declared  war  to  the  death  against  every 
gentleman  iu  France.  In  six  weeks 
some  12,000  of  these  insurgents  were 
cut  down,  and  amongst  their  number 
was    the    leader    himself.       (!Sce  Jack, 

jACQXn'-.S.) 

Jacques.      A  generic  name  for  the 
poor  artisan  class  in  France.     Jaques  is 
a  sort  of  cotton  waistcoat  without  sleeves. 
"  Janiiies,  il  me  fant  trouliler  ton  somnie  ; 
Dans  le  villaire,  nn  (.'I'os  liuissier 
UOUe  et  cduit,  suivi  dn  messier  : 
C'est  iiiiur  l'iiiii>rit.  las!  nmn  iiau\  re  homnic. 
-l,eve-ti>i,  .Jaouies,  leve-tiii, 
Vuici  veuir  I'iiuiss^er  du  vcii." 

lie'ranyer  (1831). 

Pamre  Jacques.  Said  to  a  maiden 
when  she  is  lackadaisical  (French). 
Marie  Antoinette  had  at  the  Little 
Trianon  an  artificial  Swiss  village,  which 
she  called  her  '■^  I'etUe  Suisse,''''  and 
actually  sent  to  Switzerland  for  a 
peasant  girl  to  assist  in  milking  the 
cows.  The  Swiss  maiden  was  one  day 
overheard  sighing  for  '■'■  I'durre  Jacques,'^ 
and  the  queen  sent  for  the  distant 
swain,  and  had  the  lovers  married.     To 

43 


finish  this  absurd  romance,  the  Mar- 
chioness de  Travanet  WTote  an  ode  on 
the  event,  which  was  for  a  time  wonder- 
fully popular. 

"  Panvre  Jacques,  qiiand  j'etais  pres  de  toi, 
Je  ne  sentais  i>as  ma  misere  : 
JIais  a  present  que  til  vis  loin  de  mni, 
Je  manriue  de  tout  sur  la  terre." 

Marquise  tie  Travaitet. 

Jacques  Bonhomme.  A  sort  of 
fairy  gooil-liiek,  who  is  to  redress  all 
wrongs,  anil  make  all  the  poor  wealthy. 
The  French  peasants  are  so  called  some- 
times, and  then  the  phrase  is  like  our 
term  of  sneering  jiity,  "  my  good  fellow," 
or  "'my  line  fellow."     (.SVr  JACQUES.) 

Jactitation  of  Marriage.  A  fal.so 
assertion  l)y  a  ])erson  of  being  married 
to  another.     This  is  actionable. 

Jade  or  T/ie  iJiviiie  Stm/e.  Worn  by 
the  Indians  as  an  amulet  to  jjreserve 
them  from  the  bite  of  venomous  animals, 
and  to  cure  the  gravel,  cpileijsv,  etc. 
(7/,//.)  '     1     1  J. 

'•The  conversation  was  intersi'ersed  by  con- 
tinual cups  of  tea,  drunk  out  of  tlie  nu)st  iVnuii- 
fiil  Cliinese-ware,  while  the  Amiiar's  cup  was  of 
a  frncu  yAile."—Iluiw,il(jt:  Across  Thibet,  chuii.  \. 
p.  ■S.-J. 

Jade.  A  worthless  horse.  An  old 
woman  (u.sed  iu  contempt).  A  young 
woman  (not  necessarily  contemptuous). 

Jaf  fier  (3  syl.),  in  Venice  Treserved, 
a  tragedy  by  Otway.  He  joins  the  con- 
spiracy of  Pierre  against  the  Venetian 
state,  but  communicates  the  secret  to 
his  wife  Bclvide'ra.  Belvide'ra,  being 
the  daughter  of  a  senator,  is  naturally 
anxious  to  save  the  life  of  Priu'li,  her 
father,  and  accordingly  induces  her  hus- 
band to  disclose  the  plot,  imder  iiromise 
of  pardon  to  all  the  conspirators.  The 
plot  being  revealed,  the  senate  con- 
demned the  conspirators  to  death ; 
whereupon  Jaffier  stabbed  Pierie  to 
prevent  his  being  broken  on  the  wheel, 
and  then  stabbed  himself. 

Jagger.  A  gentleman;  a  sportsman. 
(German, yff^«-,  a  sportsman.) 

Jail-bird  {A).  One  who  has  been  in 
jail  as  a  pi'isoner. 

"At  this  late  period  of  Christianity  we  are 
hrouBht  up  to  abhor  jail-liirds  as  we  do  toads." — 
Beechrr :  The  Plyniouth  Palpi.t,  August  30tb.  1S7-J, 
vol.  ii.  557. 

Jamambuxes  [Soldiers  of  the  round 
valleij.'i'].  Certain  fanatics  of  Japan,  who 
roam  about  and  pretend  to  hold  converse 
with  the  Devil.  The}'  scourge  them- 
selves severely,  and  sometimes  refrain 
from  sleeping  for  several  days,  in  order 
to  obtam  the  odour  of  sanctity.  They 
are  employed  by  the  people  for  the  dis- 
covery of  articles  stolen  or  lost. 


Jambon 


C74 


Jane 


Jambon.  A  pun,  so  called  from  its 
fancif  111  rcscmbl.iiice  to  a  "  bettcrave  " 
or  jambon.  The  botanical  uanic  of  the 
root  is  nidoch'ut. 

"  Wliat  Wdiild  you  do  toinc.hri.'niTKl  ?  .  .  .  Give 
me  fif  ly  Mows  of  ;i  iiialiM<|iu\  sis  your  onicer  ^iive 
you  l:isl  week  for  xUMlin;.'  Ii:s  jiiisiliou  ?  "— Oiiic/rt ; 
L'liiler  Two  J-lityg,  eliai).  \\i. 

Jambusclia  [Jaiii-fins-ni/i].  Adam's 
piULt'iitor,  atcoiding  to  the  pre-Adani- 
itos.  Sometimes  called  Boan,  and  some- 
time Zagtith. 

James.  A  sovereign  ;  a  jacobus.  A 
gold  coin  circulated  in  the  reigu  of 
Jaines  I.     Worth  about  'ios. 

James  {St.).  Patron  saint  of  Spain. 
At  I'adron,  near  Comiiostella,  they  used 
to  show  a  huge  stone  as  the  veritable 
boat  in  which  the  apostle  sailed  from 
Palestine.  His  body  was  discovered  in 
840  by  divine  revelation  to  liishnji  Tlieo- 
domi'rus,  and  King  Alfonso  built  a 
church  at  Compostella  for  its  shrine. 
According  to  another  legend,  it  was  the 
rr/icn  of  yt.  James  that  were  miraculously 
conveyed  to  Spain  in  a  ship  of  marble 
from  Jerusalem,  where  he  was  bishop. 
A  kniglit  saw  the  ship  sailing  into  port, 
liis  horse  took  friglit,  and  plunged  with 
its  lidcr  into  the  sea.  The  knight 
saved  himself  by  "boarding  the  marble 
vessel,"  but  his  clothes  were  found  to  be 
entirely  covered  with  scallop  shells. 

V  In  tlio  AclitSaintoriiiii  (xi.  ."7,  etc.) 
wc  are  told,  that  in  C'lavigium  scarcely 
a  stoiu>  is  fi)uiul  which  dois  nut  bear  the 
form  of  a  shell  ;  and  if  these  stducs  are 
broken  up,  the  broken  bits  have  also  the 
forms  of  shells. 

In  Christian  art  this  f^aiut  lias  some- 
times the  sword  by  which  he  was  bc- 
hciidcd,  and  sometimes  he  is  attired  as 
a  pilgrim,  with  liis  cloak  covered  with 
shells.     (.SVr  a/iorc.) 

St.  Jiiiiics  {the  Zr.«.v).  His  attribute  is 
a  fuller's  club,  in  allusion  to  the  instru- 
ment by  which  he  was  put  to  death, 
after  having  been  precipitated  from  the 
summit  of  the  temple. 

St.  Jaiiitx^s  College.  So  called  from 
James  I.,  who  granted  a  charter  to  a 
college  founded  at  Chelsea  by  Dr.  Sut- 
clilfe.  Dean  of  Exeter,  to  maintain 
priests  to  answer  all  adversaries  of  re- 
ligion. Laud  nicknamed  it  "  Contro- 
versy College."  The  college  was  a 
failure,  and  Charles  II.  gave  the  site  to 
the  Eoyal  Societj',  who  sold  it  for  the 
purpose  of  erecting  the  Eoyal  Hospital 
for  Old  Soldiers,  which  now  exists. 

St.  Janus' s  Bay.  July  2.7th,  the  day 
cf  his  martyrdom. 


The  Court  of  St.  Jaiiien  or  St.  Jmiiex'g. 
Tlie  British  court.  Queen  Victoiia  liolds 
her  drawing-rooms  and  levees  in  St, 
James's  Palace,  Pull  Mall ;  but  Queen 
Ainie,  the  four  Georges,  and  William  IV. 
resided  in  this  palace. 

Jamio  or  Jcmmio  Duffs.  Weepers. 
So  eallfd  frum  a  noted  Scotchman  of 
the  l.Stli  century,  who  lived  at  Edin- 
burgh. His  great  passion,  like  that 
of  "Old  Q.,"  was  to  follow  funerals 
in  mourning  costume,  with  oifliodox 
weepers.  I  myself  know  a  gentleman 
of  a  similar  morbid  )iassion.  (Juiif : 
Or'ujuial  I'ortvatts,  i.  7,  and  ii.  0,  17,  Do.) 

Jamshid'.  King  of  the  Genii,  famous 
for  a  golden  cup  full  of  the  elixir  of  life. 
This  cui),  hidden  by  the  genii,  was  dis- 
covered while  digging  the  foundations 
of  Persej/olis. 

'■  I  know  too  where  tlie  ceiiii  liid 
Tlie  jewelled  cuii  of  ilieir  kinu*  Jninsliid, 
With  life's  elixir  cinivkliiiu'  hi»fli." 

'J'linmiis  .MiKiir  :  I'linnliKe  <tii(l  the  Ptri. 

Jane.  A  Genoese  lialfpeun)',  a  cor- 
ruijtiou  of  JanucnsLs  or  Geuoensis. 

"  JVcnnse  I  roiild  Mot  pivo  her  mnny  n  jnne." 
Upoixer  :  Faeiic  (Jiuciie,  hook  iii.  canto  \  ji.  5S.   ' 

Jfoic.  A  most  ill-starred  name  for 
rulers.  To  give  a  few  examples :  /.ad;/ 
Jane  Grei/,  beheaded  by  Mary  for 
treason ;  Jane  Seiimoiir ;  Jane  or  Joan 
Beaufort,  wife  of  James  I.  of  Scotland, 
who  was  infamously  and  savagely  mur- 
dered ;  Jane  of  IiHr<ju)idii,  wife  of 
I'liilijipe  Ic  J.onrj^  who  imjirisoncd  her 
for  .adidtery  in  1314  ;  Jane  of  Flanders, 
who  was  in  ceaseless  war  with  Jane  of 
I'eiithierre  after  the  captivity  of  their 
husbands.  This  contest  is  known  in 
history  as  "  the  wars  of  the  two 
Janes"  (fourteenth  century).  Jane  of 
France  (de  Valois),  wife  of  Louis  XII., 
who  repudiated  her  for  being  ugly ;  Jane 
d'Albret,  mother  of  Henri  IV.  of  France. 
Being  invited  to  Paris  to  attend  the 
espousals  of  her  son  with  Margaret  de 
Valo'is,  .she  was  poisoned  by  Catharine 
de'  Medicis  (lo7"2);  Jane,  Conntess  of 
Jfai/Kialt,  daughter  of  Baldwin,  and 
wife  of  Fernand  of  Portugal,  who  was 
made  prisoner  at  the  battle  of  Bouviues 
in  rJ14.  She  refused  to  ransom  him, 
and  is  thought  to  have  poisoned  her 
father;  Jane  Ilenriqacz,  wife  of  John  II. 
of  Navarre,  stiiTcd  up  war  between  her 
husband  and  his  son  Carlos  by  a  former 
marriage,  and  ultimately  made  away 
with  the  youug  prince,  a  proceeding 
which  caused  a  revolt  of  the  Cata- 
loniaus  (14G2)  ;  Jane  the  Imbecile  of 
Castile,  who  lost  her  reason  from  grief 
at  the  neglect  of  her  liusband,  Philip  the 


Jane  Eyre 


67; 


Jarnac 


Handsome,  Archduke  of  Austria  ;  Juttc  I. 
of  Xap'es  married  Audrew  of  Hungary, 
■whom  she  caused  to  be  murdered,  and 
then  married  the  assassin.  Her  reign 
was  most  disastrous.  La  Harjie  has  a 
tragedy  entitled  Jeanne  dc  Kap/es  ; 
Jane  II.  of  Nap'ea,  a  woman  of  most 
scandalous  character,  guilty  of  every 
sort  of  wantonness.  She  married  James, 
Count  of  March,  who  put  to  death  her 
lovers  and  imprisoned  Jane  for  two  years. 
At  her  release  James  tied  to  France, 
when  Jane  had  a  ituison  with  Caraccioli, 
whom  she  murdered.  Joan,  the  pope, 
if  indeed  such  a  person  ever  existed. 
Jeanne  la  TiiceUc  [Joan  of  Arc]  cannot 
he  called  a  ruler,  hut  her  lot  was  not 
more  happy  ;  etc.  etc.    {See  John  Two.) 

Jane  Eyre.  The  heroine  in  a  novel 
of  the  same  name,  by  Currer  Bell  {'j.r.). 

Janissaries  or  Janizaries,  a  cele- 
brated militia  of  tlie  Ottoman  Eni])ire, 
raised  by  Orchau  in  1326,  and  called  the 
lV«/7i-<,sr//f;7  (new  corps).  It  was  blessed 
by  Hadji  Bektash,  a  saint,  who  cut  oft 
a  sleeve  of  his  fur  mantle  and  gave  it  to 
the  captain.  The  ca})tain  put  the  sleeve 
on  his  head,  and  from  this  circumstance 
arose  the  fur  cap  worn  by  these  foot- 
gu:irds.  In  182(i,  having  become  too  for- 
midable to  the  state,  they  were  abolished. 
'•TlitML'  were  Uvi)  classes  of  .lanizarics,  one  le- 
sulavl.v  of^'aiiised  .  .  .  ami  tlie  ullier  coiniKising 
an  ineiiular  militia."— CViiimi/t/s  ;  Jiiicyclot'cudiu, 

Mil.  Vi.  p.  -J'ii. 

Jan'ncs  and  Jam'brcs.     The  two 

magirians  of  Pharaoh,  who  imitated 
some  of  the  mii'acles  of  Moses.  The 
Janncs  and  Jambres  who  "  withstood 
Moses,"  mentioned  by  St.  Paul  (2  Tim. 
iii.  8,  9),  are  supposed  to  be  the  same. 
The  paraphrast  Jonathan  says  they  were 
the  sons  of  Balaam. 

Jan'scnists.  A  sect  of  Christians, 
who  held  the  doctrines  of  Cornelius 
Jansen,  Bishop  of  Yprcs,  in  France. 
Jansen  professed  to  have  formulated  the 
teaching  of  Augustine,  a.d.  1640,  which 
resembled  Calvinism  in  many  respects. 
He  taught  the  doctrines  of  ''irresistible 
grace,"  "original  sin,"  and  the  "utter 
helplessness  of  the  natural  man  to  turn 
to  God."  Louis  XIV.  took  part  against 
them,  and  they  were  put  down  by  Pope 
Clement  XL,  in  170o,  in  the  famous  bull 
called  L'nigen'itus  ('y.r.). 

Janua'rius  {Sf^.  A  martyr  in  30o. 
Two  vials  of  his  1)!ood  are  preserved  in 
the  cathedral  at  Xaples,  and  every  year 
on  September  19  (the  day  of  liis  martyr- 
dom) the  blood  liquefies. 

Order  oj'  St,  Januarius  (patron  saiut 


of  Naples),  instituted  in  1738  by  Infantii 
don  Carlos. 

Jan  uary.  The  mouth  dedicated  by 
the  Komans  to  Janus  (q.i.).  Janus  had 
two  faces,  and  January  could  look  back 
to  the  3-ear  past,  and  forwards  to  the 
current  year. 

Ja'nus.  The  temple  of  peace,  in 
Kome.  The  doors  were  thrown  open  in 
times  of  war  and  closed  in  times  of 
peace.  Some  think  the  two  faces  of  this 
mythical  deity  allegorise  Xoah  and  his 
sons,  who  look  back  on  the  world  before 
tlic  Flood,  and  forwards  on  the  world 
after  the  deluge  had  abated.  This  idea 
will  do  very  well  in  poetry. 

"Slavery  was  tlie  liiiiire  «n  wliicli  tlie  (rates  of 
tlie  temple  nf  .lauus  tiirued"  (in  tbc  Aiuericau 
wai  ).—  Tlie  Time*. 

Japanese  (3  syl.).  The  language  of 
Japan,  a  native  of  Japan,  anything  per- 
taining thereto. 

Japheth's  Stone.  According  to  tra- 
dition, Xoah  gave  Japheth  a  stone 
which  the  Turks  call  yiiid'itaseh  and 
nenkjede.  Whoever  possesses  tliis  stone 
has  the  power  of  bringing  rain  from 
heaven  at  will.  It  was  for  a  long  tune 
ineserved  by  the  Moguls. 

Japhet'idie.  The  supposed  posterity 
of  Japheth,  son  of  Noah.  The  Aryan 
family  is  said  to  belong  to  this  race. 

"Tlie  Iiidii-Eiiroi.ean  family  of  laiih'iiases  as 
kiiiiwii  by  variiiiis  (Icsit.'iialiiiiis.  Siiii.e  style  it 
jKrlittic.ns'if  it  ai'i  ci'iaiiied  tu  the  (lesceiidant.s 
of  the  patrian-li  .laplietli  ;  as  tlie  Si'iuitir  toii^'iics 
[tilipi-riaiii]  to  the  iicsceiidaiits  of  Shcm.'"— It'/iit- 
iitii :  Liiuijmi'jis^Ltc,  leotuic  v.  p.  pji'. 

Jaquemart.  The  automaton  of  a 
clock,  consisting  of  a  man  and  woman 
who  strike  the  hours  on  a  bell.  So  called 
from  Jean  Jaqucmart  of  Dijon,  a  clock- 
maker,  who  devised  this  piece  of  me- 
chanism. 

Jaques  (1  syl.).  A  morose  cynical 
moraliser  in  Shakespeare's  As  You  Like 
It.  It  is  much  tlisputed  whether  the 
word  is  a  monosyllable  or  not.  Charles 
Lamb  makes  it  a  dissyllable — "Where 
JaquOs  fed  in  solitary  vein;"  but  Sir 
"Walter  Scott  uses  it  as  a  monosyllable  — 
"  Whom  humorous  Jaques  with  envy 
vicAved." 

Jailonan.  An  Abram-man  {<].r.). 
Jark  means  a  seal,  whence  also  a  safe- 
conduct.  Abram-men  were  licensed 
beggars,  who  had  the  "seal"  or  licence 
of  the  Bethlehem  Hospital  to  beg. 

Jarnac.  Conp  de  Jarnae.  A  peculiar 
stroke  of  the  sword  by  which  the  oppo- 
nent is  ham- strung.     The  allusion  is  to 


Jarndyce 


C7(1 


Jeameg 


the  duel  iDetweeii  Jarnac  and  La  Chk- 
teigueraie,  on  July  lOth,  1547,  in  the 
presence  of  Henri  II.,  wlieu  Jarnuc  dealt 
his  adversary  such  a  blow,  from  which 
he  died. 

Jarndyce    r.    Jarndyce.     An    in- 

fermiuable  Chanceiy  suit  in  Dickens's 
Jllrak  Ildiise.  The  character  of  Jarn- 
dj'ce  is  that  of  a  kind-hearted,  easy 
fellow,  wlio  is  half  ashamed  that  his  left 
hand  should  know  what  his  right  hand 
gives. 

Jarvey.  A  hackney-coach  driver. 
Said  to  be  a  contraction  of  Geoffrey ; 
and  the  reason  wliy  tliis  name  was 
selected  was  because  coachmen  saj-  to 
their  horses  gce-o,  and  Ge-o'  is  a  con- 
traction of  Geoffrey.  Ballantiue  fays, 
that  one  Jarvis,  a  noted  hackney -coach- 
man who  was  hanged,  was  the  original 
Jarvey. 

A  J(/rrci/''s  henjambu  A  coachman's 
great-coat.     (Sw  Benjamin.) 

Jarvie  {BaiUie  Kicol).  A  Glasgow 
magistrate  in  Scott's  Hub  liuij.  He  is 
petulant,  conceited,  purse-j  roud,  with- 
out tact,  and  intensely  prejudiced,  but 
sincere  and  kind-hearted. 

Jaun'dice  (2  syl.)  A  jaundiced  etjc. 
A  prejudiced  eye  which  sees  "faults  that 
are  not."  It  was  a  popular  belief  among 
the  Eomans  that  to  the  eye  of  a  person 
who  had  the  jaundice  everj'thing  looked 
of  a  yellow  tinge.  (French,  jaiine,  j-el- 
low.) 

"  All  Sfems  infected  tliat  th'  infected  sry, 
As  all  seems  jellfW  to  the  janndiccrt  eye." 
Pope:  Eat'Oii  on  Criticism. 

Javan  [clai/'].  Son  of  Japheth.  In 
most  Eastern  languages  it  is  the  collec- 
tive name  of  the  Greeks,  aiid  is  to  be  so 
understood  in  Isa.  Ixvi.  19,  and  Ezek. 
xxvii.  13. 

In  the  Wo7-Id  Before  the  Flood,  by 
James  Montgomery,  Javan  is  the  hero. 
On  the  day  of  his  birth  his  father  died, 
and  Javan  remained  in  the  ''patriarch's 
glen"  under  his  mother's  care,  till  she 
also  died.  Tlien  lie  resolved  to  see  the 
world,  and  sojourned  for  ten  years 
with  the  race  of  Cain,  where  he  became 
the  disciple  of  Jubal,  noted  for  his 
musical  talents.  At  the  expiration  of 
that  time  he  returned,  penitent,  to  the 
patriarcli's  glen,  where  Zillah.  daughter 
of  Enoch,  "won  the  heart  to  Heaven 
denied."  The  giants  invaded  the  glen, 
and  carried  off  the  little  band  captives. 
Enoch  reproved  the  giants,  who  would 
have  slain  him  in  their  fury,  but  they 
could  not  find  him,  "for  he  walked  with 


God."  As  he  ascended  through  the  air 
his  mantle  fell  on  Javan,  who,  "  smiting 
with  it  as  he  moved  along,"  brought  the 
captives  safely  back  to  the  glen  again. 
A  temi^est  broke  forth  of  so  fearful  a 
nature  that  the  giant  army  fled  in  a 
panic,  and  their  king  was  slaiu  by  some 
treacherous  blow  given  by  some  un- 
known hand. 

Jav'anese  (3  syl.).  A  native  of  Java, 
anything  pertaining  to  Java. 

Javert.  An  officer  of  police,  the 
impersonation  of  inexorable  law  in  Lcs 
Jlliscrab/i's,  by  Victor  Hugo. 

Jaw.  Words  of  complaint :  wrang- 
ling, abuse,  jabber.  ''To  jaw,"  to 
annoy  with  words,  to  jabber,  wrangle, 
or  abuse.  The  French  (juitdv  and  (juitiU-r 
are  used  in  the  same  niaunei-. 

Hold  your  jaic.  Hold  your  tongue  or 
jabber. 

If'/uft  are  you  jauing  about?  What 
are  you  jabbering  or  wrangling  about  ? 

A  hnah-jaw  nurd.  A  very  long  word, 
or  one  liard  to  pronounce. 

Ja-wab.  The  rcfu.«al  of  an  offer  of 
marriage.  Tlius  when  one  lady  saj's 
to  another  that  "  Mr.  A.  B.  has  got  Ids 
jawab,"  she  means  that  he  made  her 
an  offer  of  marriage,  but  was  refused. 
{Cakutta  .s/aiir/.) 

Jawbone  (2  syl.).  Credit,  promises. 
{Jaw,  words  or  talk  ;  l/oii,  good.) 

Jay  (A).   A  w antou . 

"Tlii?  jav  (.f  Italy  ....  liatli  betrayed  him.'"— 
filiahi-fiWin-e:  Vlhcllo,  v.  i. 

Jay.  A  plunger  ;  one  who  spends  his 
money  recklessly  ;  a  simpleton.  This  is 
simply  the  letter  J,  the  initial  letter  of 
Juggins,  who,  in  1887,  made  a  fool  of 
himself  by  losses  on  the  turf. 

Ja'zey.  A  wig  ;  a  coiTuption  of  Jer- 
sey, and  so  called  liecause  tliey  are  made 
of  Jersey  flax  and  fine  wool. 

Je  Maintiendrai  (/  viH  maintain). 
The  motto  of  the  House  of  Nassau.  When 
William  III.  came  to  England  he  re- 
tained the  motto,  but  added  to  it,  "I 
will  maintain  tlie  lilicrtiea  of  llnyhtnd  and 
the  Brott's/ant  re//r/ioi/.'" 

Je  ne  Sais  Q,uoi.  An  indescribable 
something;  as  "There  was  a  Je  ne  snis 
rjuoi  about  him  which  made  us  dislike 
him  at  first  sight." 

Jeames  (1  syl.).  Any  flunkey.  Some- 
times the  Morniny  Post  is  so  called. 

Thackeray  wroite  Jeames' s  Jjiary  (pub- 
lished in  B/'ine/i),  of  which  Jeames  de  la 
Pluche  w-as  the  hero- 


Jean  Crapaud 


f,77 


Jemmie  Duffs 


Jean  Crapaud.  A  Frenchman.  A 
Frenchman  is  called  both  a  toad  and  a 
frog.     (.SVe  Ceapaud.) 

Jean  Farine  [^.Tack  Floxr].  A  sort 
of  Scaramouch,  generally  very  tall,  and 
representing  a  loutish  boy  dressed  all  in 
white,  the  hair,  face,  and  hands  being 
covered  with  flour. 

"Jean  Farine  s'en  fervient  (dn  manteaii  irun 
gentilljoniiii"  (iascnn)  iin  bonnet  ;  et  a  le  voir 
lilancliastre.  ii  scMulile  (lu'il  soil  desja  eufarine." 
—Lis  JeiiX  de  I'liirunna  [  u;45). 

Jean  de  Lettre  (^^l^.  Jenkins). 
"  Qui  pour  rovduunre,  dit  Tullemnnt, 
est  un  (inuual  mal  ido'uie  a  tuiitc  autre 
chose.''''  {Jft)ir.  Jk'thoiilleres  :  Histori- 
cttes,  ix.  '20<J,  X.  82.) 

Jean  de  la  Suie  (French).  A 
Savoj-ard. 

Jean    de    la    Vigne   (French).      A 

crucifix.     {See  next  artiele.) 

Jean  des  Vignes  (French).  So 
the  jonglers  call  the  poujiee  to  which 
they  address  themselves.  The  French 
Protestants  in  the  sixteenth  century 
called  "the  host"  Jeau,  and  the  word 
is  pretty  well  synonymous  with  buffoon. 
Jean  des  Yignes  was  a  drunken  mari- 
onette performer  of  considerable  ability  ; 
'•Jean"  was  liis  name,  "  des  Vignes  " 
his  sobriquet.  Hence  when  a  person 
does  a  bad  action,  the  French  sa}^  "// 
fait  comiite  Jean  des  T'i(/ne.s;"  an  illicit 
marriage  is  called  "  le  marie/e/e  de  Jeau 
des  J'iffi/es,'"  and  a  bad  fellow  is  "  «« 
Jean  des  Vignes."  Hence  Assoucy  says, 
"  JZb/,  paitvre  sot,  plus  sot  que  Jean  des 
Tif/nes  ! " 

"  Jean  !  que  dire  sur  .lean  ?  c'est  iin  terril>le  nnni, 
Qui  jamais  n'acconiiiajrneunei'pitliptelionnete 

Jean     des   Vignes,   Jran    ligne.     Oii    vais-je  ? 
Trouves  liou 

Qu'eu  si  lieau  clieniin  je  ni'anvtc." 

Viryile  Travvsti,  vii.  (Jaiin  to  yEiic/is'). 

Jeannot  (French).      One  who  is  mi- 

iiutelv  great :  one  wlio  exercises  his 
talents  and  ingenuity  on  tritles ;  one 
who  after  gi-eat  preparation  at  table  to 
produce  some  mighty  effect,  brings  forth 
onl}^  a  ridiculous  mouse. 

Jeb'usites  (3  syl.),  in  Dryden's  satire 

of  AbsalnDt  and  AcJiitophel,  stands  for 
the  Roman  Catholics  ;  so  called  because 
England  was  Roman  Catholic  before 
the  Reformation,  and  Jerusalem  was 
called  Jebus  before  the  time  of  David. 

V  In  this  poem,  the  Jebusites  are  the 
Catholics,  and  the  Levites  the  dissenting 
clergy. 

••  Siictwlini.-  times  did  equal  folly  rail, 
Believiii-,'  iioi  liiir-'.  or  believing.'  all. 
The  h;.L'\  pr-aii  rites  tli'-  J.-br,sitcs  embraced, 
AVheii  gods  were  reioinm  'Uiled  liy  their  taste." 
[Transubstantiation.l 
Vryden:  Absalom  and  Achitophel,  Fart  i.  X17-1J3. 


Jedwood  Justice.  Putting  an  ob- 
noxious person  to  death  first,  and  trying 
him  afterwards.  This  sort  of  j  ustice  was 
dealt  to  moss-troopers.  Same  as  Jed- 
burgh Justice,  Jeddart justice.  We  have 
also  "Cupar  justice"  and  "Abingdon 
law."  Of  the  last  we  are  told  that 
Major-Gencral  Brown,  in  the  Common- 
wealth, hanged  a  man  first  and  tried 
liim  afterwards. 

"Jeilwood  justice— bans  in  haste  and  try  at 
leisure."— .SVi/H  ;  Fair  Maid  uf  Peitli,  chap.  x.\.\ii. 

Jehen'nam.  The  Gehenna  or  Inferno 
of  the  Aiabs.  It  consists  of  seven  stages, 
one  below  the  other.  The  fii'st  is  allotted 
to  atheists ;  the  second  to  Manicheans 
(</.'•.)  ;  the  third  to  the  Brahmins  of 
India  ;  the  fourth  to  the  Jews  ;  the  fifth 
to  Christians  ;  the  sixth  to  the  Magians 
or  Ghebers  of  Persia  :  and  the  seventh 
to  hypocrites.     (The  Koran.) 

Jehovis'tic.    {See  Elohistic.) 

Jehu.  A  coachman,  especially  one 
who  drives  at  a  rattling  pace. 

"The  watchman  told.sayinj;.  ....  The  driving 
is  li'<e  the  lirivinf,'  of  Jehu  the  son  of  Nimshi  ; 
fjr  he  driveth  furiously."— 2  Kings  ix.  20. 

Jejune  (2  syl.).  A  jejime  narrative. 
A  diy,  tedious  one.  (Latin,  jeju'nus, 
dry,  spiritless.) 

'■  Till  farce  itself,  most  mournfully  jejune, 
(.'allii  for  the  kind  assstance  of  a  tune." 

Soirper :  lietiremeitt,  711. 

Jekyll.  Dr.  Jeki/ll  and  Mr.  ID/de. 
The  two  phases  of  one  man,  "  the  law 
of  his  members  warring  against  the  law 
of  his  mind."  Jekyll  is  the  "  would  do 
good,"  Hyde  is  "the  evil  thatispresent." 
{.Stcrcnson  :  Dr.  Jekyll  and  Mr.  Hyde.) 

Jelly  Pardons.  When  Thomas 
Cromwell  was  a  clerk  in  the  EnglLsh 
factoiy  at  Antwerp,  two  of  his  fellow- 
countrymen  from  Boston  (Lincolnshire) 
consulted  with  him  as  to  the  best  means 
of  getting  the  pardons  renewed  for  the 
repair  of  Boston  harbour.  Cromwell, 
knowing  that  Pope  Julius  was  very  fond 
of  dainties,  provided  for  him  some  ex- 
quisite jelly,  and  told  his  Holiness  that 
only  royalty  ever  ate  it  in  England.  The 
Pope  was  so  pleased  with  the  delicacy 
that  he  signed  the  pardons,  on  condition 
of  having  the  recipe  of  the  jelly. 

Jel'lyby  {Mrs.).  A  philanthropist 
who  would  spend  and  be  spent  to  help 
the  poor  fan-makers  and  flower-girls  of 
Borrioboolah  Gha,  but  would  bundle  into 
the  street  a  poor  beggar  djdng  of  star- 
vtition  on  her  own  doorstep.  {Dickens  : 
lileak  House.) 

Jenunie  Duffs.    {See  Jamie  Dutfs.) 


Jemmy 


G78 


Jericho 


Jemmy,  a  name  foimd  in  engravings 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  was  James 
Worsdale,  tlie  painter  and  dramatic 
■writer  (died  1767). 

A  housebreaker's  crowbar.  A  variant 
of  Jimm}',  Jenny,  Jinnie,  and  a  diminu- 
tive of  en-gme.  Similarly  a  "  spinning- 
jiunie  "  is  a  small  engine  for  spinning. 
Tlicse  crowbars  generally  take  to  pieces 
that  they  may  be  slijiiaed  into  the  pocket. 

Jemmy.  The  head  of  a  slaughtered 
sheep.  There  are  "  boiled  jemmies," 
"baked  jemmies,"  and  "sanguinary 
jemmies"  (raw  sheep's  heads).  The 
tradition  is  that  James  IV.  of  Scotland 
breakfasted  on  a  sheep's  head  just  before 
the  battle  of  Flodden  Field  (Sep.  9,  1513). 
"  Mr.  Sikes  made  many  I'Icasant  witticisms  on 
jemmies,  a  cant  name  for  slieeji's  heads,  and  also 
for  an  ingenious  implemenr  niiicli  used  iu  his  pro- 
fe.)S;on."— i'icto/s  ;  UUvli-  Tu-ist. 

Jemmy.  A  great- coat.  So  called 
from  the  Scotch  cloth  called  jemmy. 

Jemmy.  Spruce,  fine.  A  diminutive 
of  !/'iii,  spruce  or  smart  (Anglo-Saxon 
(/■■■met).  Gimcrack means  an  ornamental 
toy,  a  prettj^  ornament  of  no  solidity. 
(■SV('  bclvir,  Jemmy  Jessamy.) 

Jemmy  Dawson    was    one   of    the 

Manchester  rebels,  who  Avas  hanged, 
drawn,  and  quartered  on  Kennington 
Common,  Surrej',  July  SOth,  174(i.  A 
lady  of  gentle  blood  was  in  love  with  tlie 
gallant  young  rebel,  and  died  of  a  broken 
heart  on  the  day  of  his  execution, 
{Pfrcifs  Reliqucs,  series  2,  book  iii.  20.) 
Shenstoue  has  a  ballad  on  it,  beginning, 
'"Come,  listen  to  my  mournful  tale." 

Jemmy  Jessamy  {A).  A  Jack-a- 
dandy  ;  a  lady's  fondling,  ,'*  sweet  as 
sugar-candy." 

Jenkinson  {Ephrahii).  A  swindling 
rascal,  who  makes  a  tool  of  Dr.  Prim- 
rose.    {Goldsmith  :    Vicar  of  IVakcJicld.) 

Jennet.    A  small  Spanish  horse. 

Jenny.  The  spinning  jenny  means 
the  little  spinning  engine.  The  word  is 
a  corrnjit  diminutive,  'ginie.  It  is  an 
eiTor  to  derive  the  word  from  the  in- 
ventor's wife  or  daughter,  seeing  his 
wife's  name  was  Elizabeth,  and  he  had 
no  daughter. 

Jenny  I'Ouvriere.  A  generic  name 
for  a  hard-working,  poor,  but  contented 
needlewoman.  The  name  was  devised 
by  Emile  Barateau,  and  rendered  popu- 
lar by  his  song  so  called. 

"  Enteiidez-voHs  un  oiseau  familli'r? 
C'est  le  chantinir  de  Jeiin.v  I'Ouvriere. 

Au  cceur  content,  content  de  pen 
Elle  pourrait  etre  riche.  et  prefere 

Ce  qui  vieut  du  Diea."  tl817.) 


Jenny  Wren,  the  sweetheart  of  Robin 
Redbreast. 

"  Koliin  iiromised  .lenny,  if  she  wonhl  he  bin 
wife,  she  should  'feed  on  cherry-pie  and  driulc 
currant-wine'  ;  and  he  says:— 

'  I'll  dre.iB  you  like  a  s-'ohinnch, 

Or  any  iieacoc!;  Kay  : 
So.  deanst  Jen,  if  you'll  he  mine, 
Let  us  appoint  the  d.iy.' 
Jenny  replirn  :— 

'  Cherry-pie  is  very  nice. 

And  so  is  currant  wine  : 
Bu?  I  mu?t  \v«ir  ncy  plain  hrown  g  nvn. 
And  never  N-o  too  flue.'" 

Jeofail,  i.r.  J'ai  failli  {Lnpsussiim  ; 
I  luive  failed),  an  omission  or  oversight 
in  a  law  ])roceeding.  There  are  several 
statutes  of  Jeofail  for  the  reiiiedj*  of  slips 
or  mistakes. 

Jeop'ardy  (3  syl.).  Hazard,  danger. 
Tyrwhitt  says  it  is  tlie  French  jni  parti, 
and  Froissart  uses  the  jihrase,  "  .S't  )ioiis 
If's  roi/oiix  a  JcK  parii  "  (vol.  i.  c.  23-1). 
Jeu  i)arti  is  a  game  wliere  the  chances 
are  exactly  balanced,  hence  a  critical 
state. 

Jerced.  A  javelin  with  wliich  the 
Easterns  exercise.  (Tin'kij-li  and  Arabic.) 

Jeremiad  (4  syl.).  A  pitiful  ta!c, 
a  tale  of  wiie  to  juoduce  compassion  ;  so 
called  from  the  "  Lamentations"  of  tlie 
l)roi)het  Ji'remiah. 

Jeremiah,  derived  from  ''Cuctim- 
bcr."  The  joke  is  this :  King  Jeremiuli 
=  Jcre' -king ^  rontracted  in  Jcr^-kiii\  or 
gher-ki)>,  and  gherkin  ia  a  young 
cucumber. 

The  British  Jeremiah.  Gibboir  so 
calls  Gildas,  author  of  lAimeniati(»n 
over  the  l)cstri(ciion  of  Britain  (-MG- 
570). 

Jeremy  Diddler.  An  adept  at  rais- 
ing money  on  fabe  pretences.  Fronx 
Kenny's  farce  called  ltaisi)>/j  the  Wind. 

Jeremy  Twitcher.  A  cunning, 
treacherous  highwayman,  in  Gay's 
Be(j(irir''s  Opera.  Lord  Sandwich,  a 
member  of  the  New  Ivit  Kat  Club,  was 
so  called  iu  17G3. 

Jericho.  Gone  to  .Jericho.  No  one 
knows  where.  The  manor  of  Black- 
more,  near  Chelm.sford,  was  called 
Jericho,  ai.d  was  one  of  the  liouses  of 
pleasure  of  Henry  VIII.  When  tliis 
lascivious  prince  had  a  mind  to  be  lost 
in  the  embraces  of  his  courtesans,  1lie 
cant  phrase  among  his  courtiers  wa^ 
"  He  is  gone  to  Jericho."  Hence,  a 
place  of  concealment. 

Go  to  Jericho  with  yon.  I  %eish  he 
had  been  at  Jericho.  A  euphemistic  turn 
of  phrase  for  "Go  and  hang  yourself." 
or  something  more  offensive  still.     This 


Jerked 


679 


Jerusalem  Pony 


saying  is  derived  from  2  Sam.  x.  5  and 
1  Chron.  xix.  5. 

'•  And  tlie  k'lis  Slid,  Tarry  at  Jericlio  until  your 
beards  lie  trniwn. ' 

/  ivi.sJi  you  icere  nt  Jericho.  .Anywhere 
out  of  niy  way.     {See  above.) 

Jerlied  [beef],  a  coiTuption  of  the 
Peruvian  word  rharqiil,  meat  cut  info 
pfrips  and  dried  in  tlie  sun  to  fireservc  it. 
(See  Miii/iui  Jifid's  novels.) 

Jerkin.  A  short  coat  or  jacket ;  a 
close  Tvaistcoat. 

"  Mi'tT'^s  -  line,  is  not  tliis  my  jerkin  ?  Now  i-s  t'le 
jerkin  under  the  \'n\ti."—S'iatiesi)eare :  TJie  Ttmpest, 

IV.  1. 

Jeroboam  of  Rum  or  Claret  {A). 
Eight  bottles  ;  but  of  whisky  tliree  pints. 
Probably  a  perversion  of  "  .I'oram." 
{See  Tappit-hen  andREnoBO.ui.) 

"Some  'Jeroboams'  of  very  old  rum  went  at 
65s.  each  :  several  '  tappit-hens,  of  rum  fetched 
ri4s.  :  and  some  'maijnums,'  17s.  each.''— IVkW/, 
3Ist  March,  Isxr. 

A  ma<Tninii=i2  quart  bottles ;  a  tap- 
pithon  =  2  mapruuius  ;  a  Jeroboam  =i  2 
tappitdiens;  and  a  rehoboam  =r  2  jcro- 
lioanis  or  IG  quart  bottles. 

Jerome  {St.).  Generally  represented 
as  an  ai^c^d  Jiiau  in  a  cardinal's  dress, 
writiufr  or  studying,  with  a  lion  seated 
beside  him.  The  best  painting  of  this 
saint  is  The  Comninnioii  of  St.  Jerome, 
by  Domenichi'no,  in  the  Vatican.  It 
is  placed  opposite  Raphael's  Trans- 
Jif/nrutioii. 

Jcron'imo.  The  chief  character  in 
the  SpKuish  Trar/cdif  by  Thomas  Kyd. 
On  finding  his  application  to  the 
king  ill-timed,  he  says  to  him«elf,  "Go 
l)y,  .Tcronimo,"  which  tickled  the  fancy 
of  the  audience  so  that  it  became  for  a 
time  the  cuiTont  street  jest. 

Jcrry-builb, unsubstantial.  A"  jcrvy- 
builder "  is  a  speculative  builder  who 
runs  up  cheap,  inisubstantial  houses, 
using  materials  of  the  commonest  kind. 
(See  Jury  Mast.) 

Jerry-shop,  or  a  Tom  and  Jerry 
Shop.  Alow-class  beer-house.  Probably 
tlie  'IVdh  and  Jerni  was  a  public-house 
sign  when  Pierce  Egau's  Life  in  Loudon 
was  popular. 

Jerry  Sneak.  A  henpecked  hus- 
band, from  a  celebrated  character  in 
Foote's  farce  of  the  Mayor  of  Garratt. 

Jerrymander.  (.SVrGEEETiTANDER.) 

Jersey  is  Cfesar's-ey — i.e.  Caesar's 
island,  so  called  in  honour  of  Julius 
Caesar. 

Jeru'salem,  in  Drydeu's  satire  of 
Absalom  (Did  Achilophel,  means  Loudon. 
^Part  i.  verse  8G,  etc.) 


Jerusalem  Artichoke.  A  corrup- 
tion of  GirasoliJ  artieioeeo.  Girasole  is 
the  sunflower,  which  this  vegetable  re- 
sembles both  in  leaf  and  stem. 

Jerusalem  Chamber.  The  Chap- 
ter-l!ouse  of  Westminster  Abbey.  Henry 
IV.  died  there,  March  20,  1413. 

"  It  hath  lieen  prophos-ed  to  me  many  years, 
1  sliould  not  die  hut  in  .Terusalem." 

iS'/i  :h-e.--pe(trc:  •!  Jlrvri/  H'.,  iv.  5. 

f  Pope  Silvester  II.  was  told  the 
same  thing,  and  he  died  as  he  was  saying 
mass  in  a  church  so  called.  {Bacon  : 
THfeidiim.) 

The  Lower  House  of  Convocation 
now  meets  in  the  Jerusalem  Chamber. 
The  Upper  House  meets  at  Mr.  Hodg- 
son's, in  Dean's  Yard,  "Westminster. 

Jerusalem  Delivered.    An  epic  in 

twenty  books,  byTorquato  Tasso  (1544- 
laOo)." 

The  crusaders,  encamped  on  the  plains 
of  Torto'sa.  chose  Godfrey  for  their 
chief,  and  Alandine,  King  of  Jerusalem, 
made  preparations  of  defence.  The 
overtures  of  Argantes  to  Godfrey  being 
declined,  he  declared  w.ar  in  the  liame  of 
the  king  of  Egvpt.  The  Christian  armv 
having  reached  Jerusalem,  the  king  of 
Damascus  sent  Arini'da  to  beguile  the 
Christians  ;  she  told  an  artful  talc  by 
wliich  she  drew  o(t  several  of  the  most 
puissant.  It  was  f'lund  that  Jerusalem 
could  never  be  taken  without  the  .aid  of 
Rinaldo  ;  but  Rinaklo  had  withdrawn 
from  the  army,  because  Godfrey  had 
cited  him  to  answer  for  the  death  of 
Giniando,  slain  in  a  duel.  Godfrey, 
being  infonned  that  the  hero  was  dally- 
ing with  Anni'da  in  the  enchanted  is- 
land, sent  to  invite  him  back  to  the 
army ;  he  returned,  and  Jerusalem  was 
taken  in  a  night  attack.  As  for  Ar- 
mi'da,  after  setting  fire  to  her  palace, 
she  fled  into  Egypt,  and  offered  to 
marry  any  knight  who  slew  Rinald  ; 
but  when  she  found  the  Christian  army 
was  successfid  she  fled  from  the  field. 
The  love  of  Rinaldo  returned  :  he  pur- 
sued her  and  she  relented.  The  poem 
concludes  with  the  triumvhant  entrv  of 
the  Christian  army  into  the  Holy  City, 
and  their  devotions  at  the  tomb  of  the 
Redeemer.  The  two  chief  episodes  are 
the  loves  of  Olindo  ('/./'.)  and  Sophro'nia, 
and  of  Taucred  {q.v.)  and  Corinda. 

Jerusalem  Pony.  A  needy  clergy- 
man or  minister,  who  renders  temporary 
aid  to  his  brother  ministers  for  hu-e ; 
.«o  called  in  humorsome  discourtesy. 
The  J  erusalem  pony  is  a  large  species  of 
donkey. 


Jess 


680 


Jew 


Jess  (pi.  Jesses).  A  short  strap  of 
leather  tied  about  the  legs  of  a  hawk  to 
hold  it  on  the  tist.  I-Ienco  a  bond  of 
affection,  etc. 

"  If  T  iirovp  lior  liaercrard, 
Thoiifrli  tliat  her  JLSses  were  luy  dear  lieart- 

strinas, 
l"d  wliistle  her  off." 

Shakcsprare. :  OtlieUo,ni.  3. 

Jessamy  Bride  is  Mary  Horneck, 
with  whom  Oliver  Goldsmith  fell  in  love 
in  1769. 

Jesse  Tree.  In  Christian  art,  a  vine 
tracing  the  genealogy  of  Christ,  called 
a  "  rod  out  of  the  stem  of  Jesse  "  (Isa. 
xi.  1).  Jesse  is  generally  represented  in 
a  recumbent  position,  and  the  vine  is 
made  to  rise  out  of  his  loins. 

Jesse  Window  (A).  A  stained -glass 
window  representing  Jesse  recumbent, 
and  a  tree  shooting  from  him  containing 
the  i^edigree  of  Jesus. 

Jes'sica.  The  Jew's  daughter  in  the 
McrcJtant  of  Venice,  by  Shakesjieare. 

Jesters.     ('S'<'^  Fools.) 

Jes'uit  (3  syl.).  "When  Ignatius  de 
Loyola  was  asked  what  name  he  would 
give  his  order,  he  replied,  "  We  are  a 
little  battalion  of  Jesus  ; "  so  it  was 
called  the  "Society  of  Jesus,"  vulgar- 
ised into  Jesuits.  The  society  was 
noted  for  its  learning,  political  influence, 
and  "jiious  frauds."  The  order  was 
driven  from  France  in  1594,  from 
England  in  1604,  from  Venice  in  1606, 
from  Spain  in  1767,  from  Naples  in 
1768  ;  and  in  1773  was  suppressed  by 
Pope  Clement  XIV.  ;  but  it  revived 
again,  and  still  exists.  The  word  is 
used  by  controversialists  to  express  one 
who  "lies  like  truth,"  or  palters  with 
us  in  a  double  sense,  that  ' '  keeps  the 
word  of  promise  to  om'  ear,,  and  breaks 
it  to  our  hope." 

Jesus  Paper.  Paper  of  very  large 
size,  chiefly  used  for  engravings.  Ori- 
ginally it  was  stamped  with  the  initials 
I.H.S.  {q.r.). 

Jet.  So  called  from  the  River  Gages, 
in  Asia  Minor,  on  the  banks  of  which  it 
was  collected  by  the  ancients.  It  was 
originally  called  {/arjatcs,  corruj)ted  into 
</((;li(t,jet. 

Jet  d'Eau  (French).  A  spout  or  jet 
of  water  thrown  up  into  the  air,  gener- 
ally from  an  artificial  fountain.  The 
great  jet  at  Versailles  rises  to  a  height 
of  ion  feet:  that  at  Chatsworth,  the 
highest  in  existence,  to  267  feet.  (French, 
from  the  Latin  jactus,  thrown  ;  jacio,  to 
throw.) 


Jetsam  or  Jetson.  Goods  cast  into 
the  sea  to  hghten  a  ship.  (French, /eto-, 
to  cast  out.)     {iSec  Flotsam  and  Lioan.) 

Jettator.  One  with  an  evil  eye,  who 
always  brings  ill-luck.  The  opposite 
of  the  Mascotte  (q.r.),  who  with  a  "  good 
eye"  always  brings  good  fortune. 

The  opera  called  La  Mascotte.  (1893, 
by  Duree  and  Cliivot.) 

Jettatura.    The  evil-eye. 

"Tlieir  f-'Iancr.  if  vdu  meet  it,  is  the  I'ettatura, 
or  evil-eye."— .1/;s.  Ciankelt:  An  AccKrscd  Hfice. 

Jeu  d'Esprit  (French).  A  witti- 
cism. 

Jeu  de  Mot.  A  pun  ;  a  play  on 
some  word  or  phrase.     (French.) 

Jeunesse  Dorde.  The  "  gilded 
youth  "  of  a  nation  ;  that  is,  the  rich 
and  fashionable  j'oung  unmarried  men. 

"  Tliere  -were  three  <if  the  jeiinesne  rfnrfe.  and,  as 
siii-h,  were  jiretty  well  known  to  the  ladies  who 
l)ronieMa(le  the  grand  circle.' —7".  Tcirel:  Lady 
Oclmur,  ix. 

Jew.     T/ie  Wandering  Jew. 

(1)  Said  to  be  Khartaph'ilos,  Pilate's 
porter.  When  the  officers  were  dragging 
Jesus  out  of  the  hall,  Kartaph'ilos  struck 
Him  with  his  fist  in  the  back,  saying, 
"Go  quicker,  Man  ;  go  quicker  !  " 
Whereupon  Jesus  replied,  "  I  indeed  go 
quickly ;  but  thou  shalt  tarry  till  I 
come  again."  This  man  afterwards 
became  a  Christian,  and  was  baptised 
under  the  name  of  Joseph.  Every  100 
j'ears  he  falls  into  an  ecstasy,  out  of 
which  he  rises  again  at  the  age  of 
tliirty. 

Tlie  earliest  acronnt  of  the  "  Wanderincr  .lew" 
is  in  the  nnnk  of  the  Cliii<iiirl,K  nfthe  An},,  ,i  of  St. 
AHiiiiis.  This  tradition  was  coiiiinnf. I  hv  Maltliew 
raris  In  15'j,s.  In  IL'ti'  riiilii.  Monskrs.  afterwards 
Bishop  of  Tonruay,  wrote  the  Rhijmal  •  liruiiicle. 

(2)  Ahasuerus,  acobbler,  who  dragged 
Jestis  before  Pilate.  As  the  Man  of 
Sorrows  was  going  to  Calvary,  weighed 
down  with  His  cross.  He  stayed  to  rest 
on  a  stone  near  the  man's  door,  when 
Ahasuerus  pushed  Him  away,  saying, 
"Away  with  you;  here  you  .shall  not 
rest."  The  gentle  Jesus  reiilicd,  "  I 
truly  go  away,  and  go  to  rest ;  but  thou 
shalt  walk,  and  never  rest  till  I  come." 

This  is  the  lepend  Riven  bv  Panl  von  Eitzen, 
Rishop  of  Schleswie  (ir,47).  (See  Greve:  Meiiwus 
of  Panl  von  Eilzeii  (17J4). 

(3)  In  German  legend,  the  "  Wander- 
ing Jew"  is  associated  with  John 
BuTTAD^KUS,  seen  at  Antwerp  in  the 
thirteenth  century ;  again,  in  the  fif- 
teenth ;  and  again,  in  the  sixteenth 
century.  His  last  appearance  was  in 
1774,  at  Brussels. 

Leonard  Duldius.  of  Niiruhers,  in  his  Praxis 
AlchinnKP  fi«(M).  says  that  Ahasuerus  is  Bonie- 
times  called  ButtadiE\j3. 


Jew's  Eye 


C81 


Jib 


(4)  The  French  call  "  The  Wauderiiig 
Jew"  Isaac  Lake'diox  or  LAauEDEji. 
{Mifteniaclit :  iJisscrtatio  in  Johaioum, 
xxi.  19.) 

(5)  Br.  Crohj,  in  his  novel,  calls 
the  ''Wandering  Jew"  Salathiel  bex 
Sadi,  who  (he  says)  appeared  towards 
the  close  of  the  sixteenth  centuiy  at 
Venice. 

V  The  legend  of  the  Wild  Hunts- 
man, called  by  Sliakespeare  "  Heme, 
the  Hunter,"  and  by  Father  Mathieu 
"  St.  Hubert,"  is  said  to  be  a  Jew  who 
would  not  suffer  Jesus  to  drink  from  a 
horse-trough,  but  pointed  out  to  Hitn 
some  water  in  a  hoof-print,  and  bade 
Him  go  there  and  di'iuk.  (Kuhn  von 
Sc/iwarz  :  Mordd.  Sagcn,  499.) 

Jew's-eye.  Worth  a  JeH''s-e)je.  Ac- 
cording to  faVjle,  this  expression  arose 
from  the  custom  of  torturing  Jews  to 
extort  money  from  them.  The  ex- 
pedient of  King  John  is  well  known : 
He  demanded  10,000  m^irks  of  a  rich 
Jew  of  Bristol;  the  Hebrew  resisted 
the  ati-ocious  exaction,  but  the  tyrant 
ordered  him  to  be  brought  before  him, 
and  that  one  of  his  teeth  should  be 
tugged  out  every  day  till  the  money 
was  forthcoming.  This  went  on  for 
seven  days,  when  the  sufferer  gave  in, 
and  John  jestingly  observed,  "  A  Jew's 
eye  may  be  a  quick  I'ansom,  but  Jew's 
teeth  give  the  richer  harvest." 

Launcelot,  in  the  Mi rchatit  of  Venice, 
ii.  o,  puns  upon  this  phrase  when  he  says 
to  Jessica :  — 

'■  Tliere  will  oome  a  Cliristian  by 
AVill  lje  worth  a  Jewess'  eye." 

Jew's-harp,  called  by  Bacon  jcu- 
irijinjjc,  by  Beaumont  and  Fletcher, 
jca-lriirap,  by  Hakluyt,7>'»\v-/;«;-/). 

The  best  players  on  this  instrument 
have  been  Koch,  a  Prussian  soldier  under 
Frederick  the  Great ;  Kuuert,  Amstein, 
and  some  others. 

Jew's  Myrtle.  So  called  from  the 
jjiipul.ir  iiotidii  that  it  formed  the  crown 
<if  thorns  placed  by  the  Jews  on  the 
Saviour's  head. 

Jews,  in  Drj-den's  satire  of  Absalom 
cud  Achitophel,  those  English  who  were 
loyal  to  Charles  II.,  called  David. 

"  The  Jews,  a  lioadstron^,   moody,   murmuring 
i"ace, 
CJod's  iKimiiercd  reople,  wUoni,  do;)aucIied  with 

ease, 
>"o  kiuK  could  :jro\erii,  nornoTod  r.nilil  please." 

r.irt  i.  verses  iit-ix. 
Jrivs  born  irilh  taila.      {Sc  Raboin.) 

Jews'  Sabbath.  In  tlie  M<i>iastiron 
de  Mclsa,  ii.  pp.  i;U,  loT,  we  read  that  a 
Jew  at  Tewkesbury  fell  iuto  a.  cesspoql. 


and  Richard,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  passing 
by,  offered  to  pull  him  out,  but  the  Jew 
refused,  saying — 

"  S:il>batn  nnsrra  colo  ; 
De  stercore  surfere  uolo." 

Next  day,  as  the  Earl  was  passing  again, 
the  Jew  cried  to  him  for  he\\),  when 
(Gloucester  replied  — 

'■  .Sal>hata  nostra  iiuidem, 
S(jlomon,  cirleliraljls  inidem." 

The  Rolls  Series. 

Jewels  in  heraldiy. 

The  topaz  represents  "or"  (jold),  or 
the  planet  Sol. 

The  pearl  or  crystal  represents  "ar- 
gent "  {silver),  or  the  planet  Luna. 

The  ruby  represents  "  gules"  {red),  or 
the  planet  Mars. 

The  sapphire  represents  "  azure  " 
{blue),  or  the  planet  Jupiter. 

The  diamond  represents  "  sable  " 
{hh(ch),  or  the  planet  Saturn. 

The  emerald  represents  "  vert " 
{f/recii) ,  or  the  planet  Venus. 

The  amethyst  represents  "  purpure  " 
[purple),  or  the  planet  Mercury. 

Jewels  for  the  months.  Each  month 
is  supposed  to  be  under  the  influence 
of  some  precious  stone — 

January :  Garnet.     Constancy. 

February:  Amethyst.     Sincerity. 

March:  Bloodstone.     Courage. 

April :  Diamond.     Innocence. 

May:  Emerald.     Success  in  love. 

June  :  Agate.     Health  and  long  life . 

July:  Cornelian.     Content. 

August:  Sardonyx.    Conjugal  fidelity. 

September:  Chrysolite.  Antidote  to 
madness. 

October :  Opal.     Hope. 

November :  Topaz.     Fidelity. 

December :  Turquoise.     Frospcrity. 

Jewels  for  signs  of  the  zodiac— 
Aries :  Ruby. 
Taurus :   Topaz. 
Gemini :  Carbuncle. 
Cancer :  Emerald. 
Leo :   Sappliiro. 
Virgo :  Diamond. 
Libi'a :  Jacinth . 
Scorpio :  Agate. 
Sagittarius :  Amethyst. 
Capriconius :  Berjd. 
Aquarius :  Onyx. 
Pisces :  Jasper. 

Jez'ebel.  A  painted  Jezebel.  A 
flaunting  woman  of  bold  spirit,  but  loose 
morals ;  so  called  from  Queen  Jezebel, 
the  \vife  of  Ahab. 

Jib.  A  triangular  sail  borne  in  front 
of  the  foremast.  It  has  the  bowsprit  for 
a  bcise  in  sma,ll  vessels,  and  the  jib-boooj 


Jib 


C82 


Joachioi 


in  larger  ones,  and  exerts  an  important 
effect,  when  the  wind  is  abeam,  in  throw- 
ing the  ship's  head  to  leeward. 

Jib.  The  under-lij).  A  sailor's  ex- 
pression ;  the  under-lip  indicating  the 
temper,  as  the  jib  indicates  the  character 
of  a  ship. 

The  cut  of  his  jih.  A  sailor's  phrase, 
meaning  the  expression  of  a  person's 
face.  Sailors  recognise  vessels  at  sea  by 
the  cut  of  the  jibs. 

To  hang  the  jib.  The  jib  means  the 
lower  lip.  To  hang  the  lower  lip  is  to 
look  ill-temi)ered,  or  annoyed. 

Jib  {To).  To  start  aside  ;  a  "  jibbing 
horse  "  is  one  that  is  easily  startled.  It 
is  a  sea  term,  to  jib  being  to  shift  the 
boomsail  from  one  side  of  the  mast  to 
the  other. 

Jib-boom.  An  extension  of  the 
bowsprit  by  the  addition  of  a  spar  pro- 
jecting beyond  it.  Sometimes  the  boom 
is  further  extended  by  another  spar 
called  thQfl'jinr/  jib-boom. 

Jib-doar.  A  door  flush  with  the 
oufsiile  w;ill,  and  intended  to  bo  con- 
c.^;d;'d  ;  forming  thu-s  part  of  the  jib  or 
face  of  the  house.     (6'.'C  a'jove,  line  8.) 

Jib-stay  {A).  The  stay  ou  which  a 
jib  is  set. 

Jib  Topsail  (.-IV  A  light  sail  flying 
from  the  extreme  forward  end  of  the 
flying-jib  boom,  and  set  about  half-way 
between  the  mast  and  the  boom. 

Jiffy.  Iiiajiff'ij.  In  a  minute  ;  in  a 
braes  of  shakes  ;  before  you  can  say 
"  Jack  Eabiuson."     (French,  vif,  rife.) 

Jig,  from  f/if/iir.  A  short  piece  of 
music  much  iu  vogue  in  olden  times,  of 
a  very  lively  character,  either  six- eight 
or  twelve -eight  time,  and  used  for  dance- 
tunes.  It  consists  of  two  parts,  each  of 
eight  bars.     Also  a  comic  song. 

"You  jiy;,  you  amblo,  and  you  lisp."— .S.'iK.Ve- 
spcire :  l/amkt,  iii.  1. 

Jilt  (To).  (S.'e  nnier  Ba3KST.)  To 
tjlce  th'2  basket. 

Jim  Cro"i^.  Brought  out  at  the 
Adelphi  in  ISo'j.  The  cliaracter  of  Jim 
Crow  iiiayed  by  T.  D.  Rice,  as  the  ori- 
ginal of  the  ''nigger  minstrels"  since 
so  popular.  A  renegade  or  ttn-ncoat  is 
called  a  Jim  Crow,  from  the  burden  of 
the  song,  If'hcel  about  an  I  tarn  about. 

Jingo.  Bi/  Jinrfo  or  7?//  the  Living 
■Ting).  Basque  "  Jainko,"  the  Supreme 
Being.  In  corroboration  of  this  deriva- 
tion it  may  be  stated  that  Eilward  I. 
had  Basijuo  mountaineers  conveyed  to 


England  to  take  part  in  the  conquest  of 
Wales,  and  the  Plantagonets  held  the 
Basque  provinces  iu  possession.  Tlie 
word  was  certainly  used  as  a  juron  long 
before  the  Crimean  War. 

"  Hpy,  .lini-'o  :  Wliat  tlio  do'il's  tlieiiirittoi-  ? 

Do  iiicniiiiiils  swim  in  Dartfonl  \v;'.tfi-  •.■  " 
Sinft :  Arffon  lor'/'/i/'  Unjiiuit  llnni  Fah-) 

•.-  Dr.  Morris,  in  his  lli^t'n-ir  Oiiilnus  ( p.  :;lo  ««(,.), 
says  it  is  St.  Gini.'iilpli.;inil  l'r..tV-^.  iSkoat  iXntts 
and  Queries,  Auviist  LT.ili,  isn,  r  ii^i)  is  of  the 
B-ime opinion.  Acciniiiii,'  ui  'I'li,  7'(  ./(.<.  June  3."ith, 
1.S77,  p.  li,  col.  1),  it  is  ihr  rcrsiaii  ;<f)i'/ =  xv;ir,  anil 
the  juron  "By  St.  Jiu,!;o''is  aLcnit  fquil  to  "By 
Mars."  But  the  wonl  hail  orit-'inally  no  ciiuneo- 
tion  witli  OUT  jin'inism.  It  was  njiiiniou  enoui-'U 
in  the  e.-irly  part  of  thr  ninoteenlh  t-entiiry.  (Juery. 
A  corruption  of  Jesus,  S(jn  of  God,  thus,  je-'n-go'. 

Jingoes  {The).  The  war  party  in 
1877.  They  were  Russophobists,  who 
felt  convinced  that  the  Czar  intended  to 
take  possession  of  Constantinople,  which 
would  give  him  command  of  the  Black 
Sea,  and  might  endanger  our  Indian 
possessions.  This  has  nothing  to  do 
with  the  word  "jingo"  used  by  Dean 
Swift;  but  was  wholly  connected  with 
the  luusic-hall  song  mentioned  iu  the 
next  article. 

Jingoism.      The  British   war  brag- 

gadoci"  ;  called  Chaunnisin  in  Frcncli  : 
Sprea-l-eag/rin/n  in  the  United  Slates  of 
North  America.  During  the  Russo- 
Tui'kish  War  in  1877-187S  Eugland  was 
on  the  point  of  interfering,  and  at  the 
music-halls  a  song  became  popular  con- 
taining the  followiug  refrain  : — 

"  We  d(urt  \v:un  to  flL-lit  :  hut,  liy  Jingo,  if  we  d  >, 
We've  u'ot  the  ships,  we'\  e  yot  tliemcn.and  t'ot 
the  money  too." 

Jinn.  A  sort  of  fairies  in  Arabian 
mythology,  the  offspring  of  fire.  They 
propagate  their  species  like  human 
beings,  and  are  governed  by  a  race  of 
kings  named  SuleJ^nan,  one  of  whom 
' '  built  the  pj'ramids. ' '  Their  chief 
abode  is  the  mountain  Kaf,  and  they 
appear  to  men  under  the  forms  of  ser- 
pents, dogs,  cats,  monsters,  or  even 
human  beings,  and  become  invisible  at 
pleasure.  The  evil  jinn  are  hideously 
ugh',  but  the  good  are  exquisitely  beau- 
tifid.  According  to  fable,  they  were 
created  from  tire  two  thousand  yeirs 
before  Adam  was  made  of  earth.  The 
singular  of  jinn  is  jinnee.      {■'See  Fairy.) 

Jin'nistan.  The  country  of  the 
Jinn,  or  Fairy  Land,  the  chief  province 
of  which  is  The  Conntrg  of  Dvhght,  and 
the  capital  TJie  Citg  of  Jea-els. 

Jo'achim  (.S7.).  The  father  of  the 
Virgin  Mary.  Generally  represented  as 
an  old  man  carrying  in  a  basket  two 
turtle-doves,  in  allusion  to  the  oft'tu-ing 
made  for  the  purification  of  his  daughter. 
His  wife  was  St.  Anne,  or  St.  Anna., 


Joan 


C83 


Job 


Joan  {Pope).  A  supposed  female 
"pope"  between  Leo  IV.  and  Benedict 
III.  She  is  said  to  have  been  born  in 
England  and  educated  at  Cologne,  pass- 
ing under  the  name  of  Joannes  Au'glicus 
{John  of  F.nrjlaud).  Bloudel,  a  Calvinist, 
wrote  a  book  in  1640  to  prove  that  no 
such  person  ever  occupied  the  papal 
chair ;  but  at  least  a  hundred  and  titty 
authors  between  the  tliirteenth  and 
seventeentli  centui'ies  repeat  the  tale  as 
an  historic  fact.  The  last  jierson  ■who 
critically  examined  the  question  was 
Dollinger,  in  1808.  (See  historic  Note 
Book,  701-2,  for  authorities  ^^ro  and  con.) 

Joan  Cromwell.  Joan  CromiccWs 
lii/rlirn-sti"^'  f/i').  A  tub  of  kitchen  per- 
quisites. The  filehings  of  servants  sold 
for  "  market  pennies."  The  Royalists 
used  to  call  the  Protector's  wife,  whose 
name  was  Elizabeth,  Jocvi  Cronnrc//,  and 
declared  that  she  exchanged  thekitchen- 
stulV  of  tlic  jialace  for  tallow  caudles. 

Joan  of  Arc  or  Jeanne  la  Pucelle. 

M.  Oet;i.ve  Delepierre  has  publislied  a 
pamphlet,  called  Doute  Jlistoriqxc,  to 
deny  the  tradition  that  Joan  of  Arc  was 
burnt  at  IJotien  for  sorcery.  He  cites  a 
document  discovered  by  Father  Viguier 
in  the  seventeenth  century,  in  the 
archives  of  Metz,  to  prove  that  she 
became  the  wife  of  Sieur  des  Armoiso, 
with  wliOTU  she  resided  at  Metz,  and 
became  the  mother  of  a  family.  Vignier 
subsequently  found  in  the  family  muni- 
nient-cliest  the  contract  of  marriage  be- 
tween "Robert  des  Armoise,  knight,  and 
Jeanne  D'Arcy,  surnamed  the  Maid  of 
Orleans.''  In  1710  there  were  found  iu 
the  archives  of  the  Maison  de  Villo 
(Orleans)  records  of  several  payments 
to  certain  messengers  from  Joan  to  her 
brother  John,  bearing  the  dates  143.3, 
1436.  There  is  also  the  entry  of  a  pre- 
sentation from  the  council  of  the  city  to 
the  Maid,  for  her  services  at  the  siege 
(dated  1439).  M.  Delepierre  has  brought 
forwai-d  a  host  of  other  documents  to 
corroborate  the  same  fact,  and  show  that 
the  tale  of  her  martyrdom  was  invented 
to  throw  odium  on  the  English.  A 
sermon  is  preached  annually  in  France 
towards  the  beatification  of  the  Maid, 
who  will  eventually  become  the  patron 
s  lint  of  that  nation,  and  Shakespeare  will 
prove  a  true  prophet  in  the  words — 


Joannes  Hagustaldensis  is  John, 
Prior  of  Hexham,  author  of  an  old  Eng- 
lish Chronicle,  and  Jivrs  of  the  Bishops 
of  IJcxham,  iu  two  books. 


Job  (o  long).  The  personification  of 
poverty  and  patience.  '■^ I'aticnt  as  Job,'''' 
in  allusion  to  the  patriarch  whose  his- 
tory is  given  in  the  Bible. 

I'oor  as  Job.  Referring  to  the  patriarch 
when  he  was  by  Satan  deprived  of  all 
his  worldly  possessions. 

"I  mil  as  pour  ;is  Jiili,  my  lord,  Imt  not  so 
piitieiH."— ,SA((/.\sj<t'i(/-<;;  :;  Ilenri/  /I'.,  i.  •_'. 

Job's  Comforter.  One  who  pre- 
tends to  sjnnpathise  in  your  grief,  but 
says  that  j'ou  brought  it  on  yourself  ; 
thus  in  reality  adding  weight  to  your 
sorrow.     {Sec  above.) 

Job^s  wife.  Some  call  her  Rahmat, 
daughter  of  Ephraim,  son  of  Joseph ; 
and  others  call  her  Makliir,  daughter  of 
Manasses.     {Sa/c  :  Iiordn  xxL,  note.) 

Slie  is  also  called  by  some  Sitis  ;  and 
a  tradition  exists  that  Job,  at  the  com- 
mand of  God,  struck  the  earth  with  his 
foot  from  the  dunghill  where  lie  lay, 
and  instantly  there  welled  up  a  sjjring 
of  water  with  which  his  wife  washed 
his  sores,  and  they  were  miraculously 
healed.     {Kuran,  xxxvL  41.) 

Job's  Pound.    Bridewell ;  prison. 

Job  {o  short)  A  job  is  a  i)iece  of 
chance  work ;  a  iiublic  work  or  office 
not  for  the  public  benefit,  but  for  the 
profit  of  the  person  employed  ;  a  sudden 
blow  or  "  dig  "  into  one. 

A  bail  job.  An  unsuccessfid  work ; 
one  that  brings  loss  instead  of  profit ;  a 
bad  speculation. 

To  do  the  Job  for  one.     To  kill  him. 

Job  {o  short).  A  minititcrial  job. 
Sheridan  says: — "Whenever  any  emolu- 
ment, jH'ofit,  salary,  or  honour  is  con- 
ferred on  any  person  not  deserving  it — 
that  is  a  job  ;  if  from  private  friendshi]), 
personal  attachment,  or  any  view  excejit 
the  interest  of  the  public,  anyone  ii 
appointed  to  any  public  office  .  .  .  that 
is  a  job." 

"'No  oliePic  is  kninvn  to  liliisli,  or  liPart  to  tlivob, 
Save  when  they  hise  a  i|uestion  or  n  job.' 

Pope:  Jifsay  on  Criticism,  i.  Ut4. 

Job  Lot  {^i).  A  lot  of  miscellaneous 
goods  to  be  sold  a  bargain. 

Jobs.  A  printer's  phrase  to  designate 
all  kinds  of  work  not  included  in  the  term 
"book-work."  The  French  call  such 
work  onrrar/e  dc  rille. 

"  Allied  to  the  Latin,  0/1  [».s]  ;  Sjianish, 
ob[ra'] ;  French,  oitr[r'ir/c]  ;  the  r  occurs 
in  the  genitive  case,  oper[is~\. 

Job  {To).  To  strike.  To  give  one  a 
"  job  in  the  ej'f  "  is  to  give  one  a  blow 
in  the  eye;  and  to  "job  one  in  the 
j-ibs"  is  to  strike  one  in  the  xibs,  to  stab 


Jobation 


684 


John 


ono  in  tlio  rihs.  Job  iiiid  i)rr;})e  soem  to 
]><'  very  lu-iitly  allied.  Plallivvoll  f^ivos 
till-  vvonl  "stop,"  to  i)okc  or  thrust, 
wliii:li  is  ulliod  to  stab. 

Joba'tlon.  A  snolding ;  so  called 
from  till'  jmtriarcli  Job. 

'■  .r.ihiiiioii  ....  iiir'iiiH  n  liiiiK,  (Irparv  lininilv, 
mill  li;i-<  rifiTciicc  Id  llic  led  oils  i-clmkc^  iiitlirteil 

III!  I  hi'  inlriiucli  .IdIi  hy  his  I lilii^iiiK  friend.*." 

—  (I.  A.  Siila:  ( /','i7/(«!«;,  .-iept.  «,  Immi. 

Jobber.  Om-  wlio  doc.q  small  jolm ; 
fini'  wliM  buys  lidm  iiirrcbaiif.s  to  sell  to 
ri'f:iilrr-i ;  u,  midilli'-maii.  A  "  stock - 
joblM'r''  i.s  Olio  who  buys  and  soils 
i)ul)lio  fulld^,  but  is  not  a  sworu  stock- 
i.n.krr. 

Jobbing    Carpontor.      Ono  who  in 

ro.idy  to  do  odil  jol)s  (pioco-wurk)  in  bis 
own  lino.     (-Vr  .foil.) 

Jocolin  de  Brakolonda,  dr  Rrlms 
i/s/i.s  ,Siiiii.\)i//i>-,  etc.  )iiil)lisli<'d  by  tlio 
Camili'n  Society.  'I'liis  r{M'ord  of  tlio 
ads  of  Alibot  Sa.ni.son  of  Mdmondsbury 
coirtains  much  contomiiorary  history, 
and  ji'ivi's  a  f^ood  account  of  Knijli.sh  lifo 
and  society  betwoon  11715  and  V202. 

Jookoy  is  a  little  Jack  (boy).  So  in 
Scotch,  "  Ilka  Joanio  has  her  Jockie." 
(.Vy  Jack.) 

All  filloics,  Jiirhri/  and  the  ht'iril  (man 
an  1  master).     {>!(vlc/i  prorcrh.) 

Jockey  ( 7'/).  To  docoivo  in  tnide  ; 
to  clie:it  ;  to  indulge  in  sharp  practice. 

Jockey  of  No-  folk.  Sir  John  TIow- 
mil,  .-I  tinu  MilhcTeut  of  Kirli.inl  III.  <  tn 
the  ni,L;lit  before  the  iKitlle  of  IJoswortli 
lie  found  in  his  tent  the  warniiii^ 
couphil : 

•■  .Inckev  (.r  Vu;  r..lk,   In'  III. I    1,111  liolll. 

h'er  Dii'kun,  lli.v   iii:e.|ri,  is  liem-'lil  iiiul  suld." 

Joe  or  a  Joe  Miller.  A  .stale  joke  ; 
so  called  from  the  conijiili^tion  of  "jokes 
uud(>r  tha.t  inini  dc  idnnif.    (<SV'<Mil"lkii.) 

Joey.  A  ^roat ;  so  called  from  Josej)!! 
Hume,  1\I.I'.,  who  stronjrly  recom- 
mended the  coinafjo  for  the  sake  of 
)iayinj;  short  eah-fares,  etc.  (Ilairhhis  : 
Jltxtunj  of  the  Silrer  (  'oukhjc  of  J-jigland.) 

Jog.  ./('//  (iicdji :  jnij  off';  joij  oil.  Get 
a  way ;  be  off ;  keep  moving.  Shakespeare 
uses  the  word  sIhkj  in  the  same  sense  — 
as,  "Will  you  siiog  otfr"  (ll'iir//  }'., 
ii.  1)  ;  and  again  in  the  same  i>lay, 
"SliiiU  we  shogr"  (ii.  o).  Beamuoiit 
and  Fletcher  use  the  same  expix'ssiou  in 
'/'//(■  ('o.rciiiii/j  -"Come,  prithee,  let  lis 
shog  olT  :• "  and  again,  in  /'iisi/nill  and 
h'ii//iiiriiic — "Thus  it  shogges"  [goes]. 
Ill  the  Jfortr  d'Art/iKi-  wo  have  another 
Yurietj-— "He    shokkcs    iu    sharpely " 


[rushes  ill].  The  words  seem  to  be  con- 
nocted  with  tlit;  Dutch  ycliohl.cii.  to  jolt, 
and  the  Aii<;lo-Saxou  svacmi,  to  denart! 
toHee.  ^       ' 

"  .liiir  on  n  littli-  f.-istcr.  iiri'ilifp, 

I'll  titkc  11  ii:i|>;i>id  I  lien  he  wi'  I  lipt-  " 

It.  Lliiinl:  The  IliiiiamUhe  Torlohe. 

Tujof/  fun  iiiriiiori/,  or  Girf  his  memori/ 
njoff.  To  remind  one  of  sometliing  aji"- 
jiarently  forgotten.  Jog  i.s  to  sli.-ike  or 
stir  uj).  (Welsh,  f/of/i,  to  shako  ;  French, 
choiiiur  ;  our  a7/w/,-,  shalw,  etc.) 

Jog-trot.     A  slow  lint  regular  jiacc. 

Joggis  oi  Jogges.  The  pillory.  Jamie- 
son  .says,  "They  juinish  deliiMiueuts, 
making  them  stimd  in  'jogges,'  as 
they  call  tlieir  pillorio-s."  (The  word 
is  r<//.v.-  Latin,  jW/w;«  ,•  Yrcuch,  jomj  ; 
Anglo-Saxon,  (/roc ;  our  jiii/,  a  jail.) 

-Ill,-,,  ;  Jlisti,r!/o/II„wb,ii-tu,i.  J     J   bb'  • 

John.  A  contraction  of  Johannes 
(Joli'u).  The  French  contract  it  differ- 
ently, Jean— i.e.  Jehau  or  Jeliaiin  ;  in 
Italian,  Oionniiii. 

7'oprs. 

.IiillN  I.  dii'il  wirti-licdiy  in  j:iil. 

.loliv  1 1,  luid  III.  wi'ir  iiiincnIilicH. 

.loliN  IV.  w,is:i reused  ,,{  heiesv. 

.Inn  \  v..  \'|..  VI  I.,  were  ninieiitilie;!. 

.liuiN  VIII.  w;is  iniprisiiiied  l>y  Lainliei-I,  Dnke 
of  Senle'lii ;  at  asulisciiiieni  reriiid  lie  Has  dressed 
in  leiiialeatlire  out  ot  iiiockei-y,  uiid  was  at  last 

Jioi.solU'il. 

.leilN  IX.  liad  SKitoit's  in.  fiii-a  rival  Pope. 

.loilN  X.  was  iiveiilirowii  liy  Gui,  Duke  of  Tiis- 
oany,  and  ded  in  prison. 

.loiiN  XI.  was  iinpiisoned  witU  his  nintber  liv 
.Ml.rrie.and  died  llieie.  •" 

.liMiN  Ml.  was  deposed  for  sacrilew,  and  w.is 
al  hisl  ass.is-iiialed. 

.liiMN  XIII.  was  imprisoned  by  Ids  noliles  anl 

deposed. 

.liinN  XIV. was  deposed, and  died  inipiisoned  in 
Iheraslleof  SI.  Ani-'elu. 

•luiiN  XV.  was  a  iioiientily. 

.liiiiN  XVI.  was  driven  from  Itome  Ijy  C'res- 
cenliiis. 

.loiiN  XVIT.  OiiilipopiO  was  expelled  Iiy  Ottu 
1 1 1.,  and  liarh.aroiisly  lie.aied  liv  (;re'-ri.i\ . 

,li)iiN  XVIII.ahdiealeil. 

.liiiiv  .\IX.  w.as  deposed  and  I'xpelled  Pv 
Koiiiad. 

.loll  N  XX.  w.'is  a  iioneiilil  \'. 

.IniiN  XXI.  w.Msenislieil  lodealli  liv  I  lie  falliiii,' 
ill  i.r  Ins  p.'ilaeeal  Vilerlio. 

.loiiN  XXII.w.is  eharu'ed  wilh  heresy. 

.loiiN  X.XIIi.  lied  in  dis:;iiise,  was  arrested,  and 
cast  into  prison  for  Iliree  years. 

Certaiulj'  a  disastrous  list  of  Popes. 

John.  A  proverbially  nnhaiijiy  name 
with  royalty,  insomuch  tliat  when  John 
Stuart  ascended  the  throne  of  Scotland 
he  changed  Iiis  name  to  Koliert ;  but 
misfortune  never  deserted  him,  and 
after  an  evil  reign  he  died  overwhelmed 
witli  calamities  and  intirmity.  Jolin 
l?aliol  was  the  mere  tool  of  Edward  I.  ; 
Joliii  of  England,  a  most  disastrous 
reign.  ,/«////  /.  uf  Fniiiee  reigned  only  a 
few  days ;  Joliu  II.,  having  lost  the 
battle  of  Poitiers,  died  in  captivity  jjj 


John 


(58" 


Joh.n-Ei-2sioke3 


London :  to  France  his  reign  was  a 
tissue  of  evils.  J(j)ni  of  lioln'inia  was 
slain  at  Cressy.  Jolin  I.  of  Araf/on  was 
at  ceaseless  war  with  his  subjects,  by 
whom  he  was  execrated  :  John  II.  was 
at  ceaseless  war  with  his  son,  Don  Carlos. 
John  I.  of  Co»sta)iti)ioph;  was  poisoned 
by  Basil,  his  eunuch :  John  IV.  had  his 
eyes  put  out ;  John  V.  was  emperor  in 
name  onlj',  and  was  most  unhappy ; 
John  VI.,  harassed  with  troubles,  ab- 
dicated, and  died  in  a  monastery. 

V  Jolm  I.  of  Hicedcn  was  unhappy 
in  his  expeditions,  and  died  child- 
less ;  John  II.  had  his  wife  diiven  out 
of  the  kingdom  by  his  angry  subjects. 
J  ran  sans  J 'cur  of  Burgundy  engaged 
in  the  most  horrible  massacres  and  was 
munlered.  John  of  Snabia,  called  the 
I'arricide,  because  he  murdered  his 
father  Albert,  after  which  he  was  a 
fugitive  and  a  vagabond  on  the  face  of 
the  earth,  etc.,  etc. 

X.B.  John  of  Portugal  was  a  signal 
exception. 

Ira)i  IV.  of  Russia,  svimamed  the 
"Ten-ible"  (1.529-1.381).  He  murdered 
with  his  own  hand  his  eldest  son ; 
Ivan  V.  (1606- 16D6)  was  dumb  and 
nearly  blind;  Ivan  VI.  (17'57-176"i)  was 
dethroned,  imprisoned,  and  put  to  death. 
(■S'-y  Jane.) 

Kiiiy  John  and  the  Abbot  of  Cantcr- 
bufij.  John,  being  jealous  of  the  state 
kept  by  the  abbot,  declared  he  should 
bo  put  to  death  unless  he  answered  three 
questions.  The  first  question  was,  how 
much  the  king  was  worth  ;  the  second, 
how  long  it  would  take  to  ride  round 
the  world  :  and  the  third,  what  the  king 
was  thiukiug  of.  The  king  gave  the 
abbot  three  weeks'  grace  for  his  answers. 
A  shepherd  imdertook  to  answer  the 
three  questions,  so  with  crozier,  mitre, 
rochet,  and  cope,  he  presented  himself 
before  the  king.  "  What  am  I  worth  "r" 
asked  John.  "  Well,"  was  the  replj-, 
"  the  Saviour  was  sold  for  thirty  pence, 
and  your  majesty  is  a  penny  worse  than 
He."  The  king  laughed,  and  demanded 
what  he  had  to  say  to  the  next  question, 
and  the  man  replied,  "  If  you  rise  with 
the  sun  and  ride  with  the  sun,  you  will 
get  round  the  world  in  a  day."  Again 
the  king  was  satisfied,  and  demanded 
that  the  respondent  should  tell  him  his 
thoughts.  "You  think  I  am  the  alibot 
of  Canterbury,  but  I  am  only  a  poor 
shepherd  who  am  come  to  ask  your 
majesty's  pardon  for  him  and  me." 
The  king  was  so  pleased  with  the  jest, 
that  he  would  have  made  the  shepherd 
abbot    of    Canterbury  ;    but   the    man 


pleaded  that  he  could  neither  wiite  nor 
read,  whereupon  the  king  dismissed  him, 
and  gave  him  a  jiensiou  of  four  nobles 
a  week,  (i'e/ry  .•  Iteliques,  series  2,  bk. 
iii.  6.) 

Mess-John  or  Mass-John.  A  priest. 
Frcster  John.  The  supposed  Christian 
king  and  priest  of  a  mediaeval  kingdom 
in  the  interior  of  Asia.  This  Prester 
John  was  the  Khan  Uug  who  was  de- 
feated and  slain  by  Genghis  Khan  in 
12i)2,  said  to  have  been  converted  by 
the  Xestorian  Cliristians.  He  figures  in 
Ariosto,  and  has  furnished  materials  for 
a  host  of  mediaeval  legends. 

"  I  will  fetcli  you  a  lootli-iiickei"  now  from  I  he 
f.'irtliesr,  iiicli  of  .\.sia  ;  lirini,'  you  tlie  leiij-'tli  of 
Pivster  Jolin's  foot:  ft'tcli  you  a  hair  off  the 
fe'reat  Chain's  beard  .  .  .  .  " 

HhakCKpeare :  Much  Ado  about  Nothing,  ii.  1. 

77te  three  Johns — an  alehouse  picture 
in  Little  Park  Street,  Westminster,  and 
in  White  Lion  Street,  Pentonville— is 
John  Wilkes  between  the  Rev.  John 
Home  Tooko  and  Sir  John  Glynn  (ser- 
jeant-at-law). (Ilottoi  :  Ilistori/  of 
Signboards). 

St.  John  the  Eranf/elist  is  represented 
writing  his  gospel ;  or  bearing  a  chalice, 
from  which  a  serpent  issues,  in  allasiou 
to  his  driving  the  poison  from  a  cup 
presented  to  him  to  drink.  He  is  some- 
times represented  in  a  cauldron  of  boil- 
ing oil,  in  allusion  to  the  tradition  of 
his  being  plunged  into  such  a  cauldron 
before  his  banishment  to  the  isle  of 
Patmos. 

St.  John.  The  usual  war-cry  of  the 
English  of  the  North  in  their  encounters 
with  the  Scotch.  The  jierson  refeiTed 
to  is  St.  John  of  Beverley,  in  Yorkshire, 
who  died  721. 

John-a-Dreams.    A  stupid,  dreamy 
fellow,  always  in  a  brown  studj'and  half 
asleep. 
"  Yet  I, 

A  dull  and  muddy-mettled  rascal,  realc, 

Like  John-a-dreams,  unpreguant  of  my  cause, 

And  cau  say  nothiui-'." 

Shakespeare :  ITnmlct,  ii.  2. 

John-a-Droynes.  A  foolish  cha- 
racter in  Whetstone's  I'romos  and 
Cassandra  (l.")78).  Being  seized  by  in- 
formers, he  stands  dazed,  and  suffers 
himself  to  be  quietly  cheated  out  of  his 
money. 

John-a-Kokes  [or  Noakes  (1  syl.)]. 
A  simpleton. 

"  John-a-Xokes  was  drivincr  a  carl  toward  Croy- 
don, aud  hy  the  way  fell  asleepe  therein.  Meane 
tiiT  e  a  good  fellow  came  hyaml  stole  away  his  two 
horses.  [J  hni  awMkeniiig  and  missing  them, 
said,  '  Either  I  am.Iohn-a-Xokesor  I  am  not.lohn- 
a-Nokes.  If  I  am  .lohu-a-Xokes,  then  I  have  lost 
two  horses  :  and  if  1  am  not  John-a-Xokes,  then 
I  have  found  a  cart.' "— CV;i(ej/ ;  yViU,  Fita,  and 
Fancies  (lay. 


i 


I 


Jolly 


688 


Jormtingandai' 


Jolly.  A  sailor's  nickname  for  a 
xnariiie,  who,  iu  his  opinion,  bears  the 
Fame  relation  to  a  "  rej^ular  "  as  a  jolly- 
boat  or  yawl  does  to  a  ship.  (Danish, 
jvll(\  a  yawl.) 

Jolly  Dog  (-7).  A  hon  livanf.  Here 
"  j<'l'y  "  iiRuus  jovial. 

Jolly  God  {Th().  Bacchus.  The 
Bible  speaks  of  wine  wliich  "  raaketh 
glad  the  heart  of  man,"  Here  "  jolly  " 
means  jovial. 

Jolly  Good  Fellow  ( .  /).  A  ver\'  social 
and  pdpnlnr  pi'i'.sciti.      (French, _/>>/(.) 

"  AM  wiis  jolly  t|irct  ;ii  lOpliesiis  liefuro  St.  I'niil 
came  thither."— ./"/m  Tidi'l':  Cmnmeutuni  (Huii'i). 
"  For  hp's  a  jolly  '-'oiicl  follow  [tlirce  tiiiU'Sl. 
AiiM  sn  s:i\  all  of  us, 
AVith  :i  hip,  hip,  hip,  lioiira!  " 

Jolly  Green.  Very  simple  ;  easily 
imposed  upon,  from  being  without 
Worldly  wisdom. 

Jolly  Roger  {The).     {Sec  Roger.) 

Jollyboat.  A  small  boat  usually 
lioistfd  at  tlie  stem  of  a  ship.  (Danish, 
jollr  ;  Diiti'li,  yy/;  Swedish,  y /<//(",  a  yawl. 

Jonah     and     the    Whale.       Air. 

Colbert,  Professor  of  Astronomy  in 
Chicatjo,  in  a  cliai)ter  on  "  Star  (Jrouj)- 
ing."  tells  us  that  the  ir/ui/c  referred  to 
is  the  star-group  "  Cetus,"  and  that 
Jonah  is  tlic  "Moon  passing  through  it 
in  three  da3's  and  nights." 

Jo'nas,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Ahxnlom 
nnd  Arh'itophcU  is  meant  ffir  Sir  William 
.Tones,  Attoriiey-r!eni'r;d,  who  conducted 
the  prosecution  of  the  Po])is;h  Plot  (June 
2oth,  lG7-n  ;  not  the  great  Oriental 
scholar,  who  lived  1710-1794.  The 
attorney-general  was  called  iu  the  satire 
Jonas  by  a  palpable  pun. 
"  Not  bull-fared  .lonas.  who  onuhl  stitutos  draw 
To  mean  rehellion  ami  make  treason  law." 
Ihyrlen  :  Absalom  and  Achituphcl,  part  i.  .i;o,.')21. 

Jonathan.  Brothrrjonnthan.  In  the 
revolutionary  war,  Washington,  being 
in  great  want  of  sujtplies  for  the  army, 
and  having  unhounded  confidence  in 
his  friend,  Jonathan  Trumbull,  governor 
of  Connecticut,  said,  "  We  must  consult 
brother  Jonathan."  Brother  Jonathan 
was  consulted  on  all  occasions  by  the 
American  liberator,  and  the  phrase  be- 
coming pojjular  was  accepted  as  the  na- 
tional name  of  the  Americans  as  a  people. 

Jonathan  and  David.  In  1  Sam. 
xviii.  4  we  read  that  .Jonathan  (the 
king's  son^  "  stripped  himself  of  his  robe 
and  gave  it  to  David,  with  his  sword, 
bow,  and  girdle."  This  was  a  mark  of 
honour,  as  princes  and  sovereigns  now- 
adays strip  themselves  of    a   chain  or 


a  ring,  which  they  give  to  one  they 
delight  to  honour.  In  1')1<J  the  Sultan 
Selim,  desirous  of  showing  lionour  to 
an  imaum  of  Constautiuoplc,  threw  liis 
roytil  robe  over  liim. 

Jonathan's.  A  noted  coffee-house  in 
Change  Alley,  described  in  the  Tiitkr  as 
the  general  mart  of  stock- jobbers. 

V  What  is  now  called  the  Stock  Ex- 
change was  called  Jonathan's. 

"  Vfsterilny  tliehroKi'rsanirofhevs  .  .  .  rnme  tn 
a  l-es.lution  that  (the  ii^'W  I. nililhcl  instead  of 
hein;.'  railed  'New  .loiiathan's.'  should  he  called 
'The  Stork  Exrhanire.'  ....  The  1  idkera  then 
rollected  sixi  eiire  each. and  rlil-isteiied  the  house 
wilh  piuirli.'-  .N,«spa|ii-  par.-iKiaph  (,lulv  1.1, 
I7::ii. 

Jonathan's  Arrows.  They  were 
shot  to  give  warning,  and  not  to  hurt. 
(1  Sam.  XX.  3G.) 

"If  the  hiishand  would  leprove  his  wife,  it 
should  he  ill  such  a  uio.xl  as  if  he  did  riride  him- 
self :  and  his  wnnls.  like  .huiathan's  arrows, 
shi  iild  l.e  shot,  not  to  hurl,  hut  only  to  (,'ive 
waniiiii.'. '■—/,(■  Faint:  The  lltinsi:  in  the  Church- 
yard,  rhaji.  xrix. 

Jonc  (Frendi).  A  wedding-ring;  so 
called  bcc.'niso  those  who  were  mtirried 
by  comjiidsion  atSte.  Marine  wore  rings 
of  jonc  or  straw. 

"('est  dans  1  Tu'lise  de  Sfp.  Marine  que  Ton 
niarli-  reiix  f|iie  Ton  rnndamne  A  s'ei'om'er.  An- 
rieniiemi'nt  on  les  mnriait  aver  tin  anneau  de 
paille  :  etait-re  pour  iuarc|iier  an  mari  i|ne  la 
verm  de  relle  (lu'il  i'lionsalt  clait  hicn  fragile?" 
— Dnlaiire. 

Jones.  I'^tre  siir  h  joiics  (to  be  on 
the  straw) — i.e.  in  prison. 

"  riaiitez  atix  Imrines  vns  pirons 
I)a  iiaoiir  les  hisans  si  tres-durs 
Kt  aiissi  d'estre  siir  les  jonrz, 
Emuiani  hcz  cii  rnlTrc  et  L'ros  murs." 
Villni  :  Jar,i„ii  ,t  J„l„li>i,  ballade  1. 

Jordan  Passed.  Death  over. 
Jordan  is  the  Styx  of  Christian  myth- 
ology, because  it  was  tlie  river  which 
separated  the  VN-ilderness  [of  this  world] 
from  the  promised  land. 

'•  If  1  still  hold  rloselv  to  Tlim, 
What  hath  Heat  last  ? 
SorrcjW  vaminisheil,  labour  ended, 
.Ionian  jmssed." 
John  Jla^onNeale,  D.P.  (Stiidiiu  the  Saba ite). 

Jordeloo  (3  syl.).  Notice  given  to 
passeiiffcrs  when  dirty  water  was  thrown 
from  chamber  windows  into  the  street. 
Either  ^'Gnrr  dc  Venn,''''  or  el.'se  "  Jor'hi' 
In!"  the  mutiila  being  usually  called 
the  "Jordan." 

"At  ten  o'clock  at  ni»;lit  the  whole  rarcro  is 
filing'  out  of  a  bark  window  tliat  looks  into  some 
str(>pt  or  lane,  and  the  maid  calls '(iardy  loo"  to 
tlie  passem-'crs."  -Smu'htt :   llinnpln-iy  iliiii.er. 

"The  lass  bad  made  the  (lardy  loo  out  of  the 
wrrmcr  window.''— .Sir  If.  Scott :  Heart  of  Mid- 
lothian. 

Jor'mungan'dar  or  Midtinrrl.iormen 
(i.e.  earth's  minister).  The  great  serpent, 
brother  of  Hela  and  Fenrir  iq.r.), 
and  sou  of  Loki,  the  spii'it  of  evil.    It 


Josaphat 


689 


Jouvence 


used  to  lie  at  the  root  of  the  celestial 
ash  till  All-Fader  cast  it  iuto  the  ocean  ; 
it  then  grew  so  large  that  in  time  it  en- 
compassed the  whole  world,  and  was  for 
ever  biting  its  own  tail. 

Jos'aphat.  An  Indian  prince  con- 
verted by  the  hennit  Bar'laam,  in  the 
Greek  religious  pastoral  entitled  Josa- 
phat and  Barlaaii),  generally  ascribed  to 
St.  John  of  Damascus  (eighth  century). 

Josepb  {A).  One  not  to  be  seduced 
from  his  continency  by  the  severest 
temptation.  The  reference  is  to  Joseph 
in  Potiphar's  house.  (Gen.  xxxix.)  (^See 
Bellerophon.) 

A  josn'pli.  A  great  coat,  so  called 
after  Joseph,  who  wore  a  garment  or 
coat  of  many  colours. 

"At  lent,'tli,  Mrs.  Ruby  herself  made  lier  appear- 
ance :  lier  venerable  person,  endued  with  what 
was  then  called  a  josepli,  an  anude  Barnient, 
which  had  iince  been  green,  but  now,  betwixt 
stains  and  mfches,  had  becimie  like  the  vcslnre 
iif  llie  pairiarch  whose  nan>r  it  bore— a  garment 
of  divers  colours."— .Sir  ir.  Hadt :  The  finite, 
cha;i.  xi. 

Joseph  (.SV.).  Patron  saint  of  car- 
penters, because  he  was  of  the  same  craft. 
This  is  Joseph,  husband  of  Mary,  and 
the  reputed  father  of  Jesus. 

In  Christian  art  Josejih  is  represented 
as  an  aged  man  with  a  budding  statf  in 
his  hand. 

Joseph  Andrews.  The  hero  of  a 
novel  written  by  Fielding  to  ridicule 
Richardson's  I'ain'ria,  whose  brother 
Joseph  is  supposed  to  be. 

Joseph  of  A'rimathe'a  brought 
to  Listenise  the  sanctsrn.Tl  and  also  the 
spear  with  which  Longi'nus  wounded 
the  crucitied  Saviour.  When  Sir  Balin 
entered  this  chamber,  which  was  in  the 
palace  of  King  Pellam,  he  found  it 
"marvellously  well  dight  and  richly; 
the  bed  was  arrayed  with  cloth  of  gold, 
the  richest  that  might  be  thought,  and 
therebv  stood  a  table  of  clean  gold,  with 
four  pillars  of  silver,  and  upon  the  table 
stood  the  spear  strangely  wrought." 
{The  History  of  Frbice  Arthur,  part  i. 
chap.  40.) 

Joseph's  Coat.    [See  under  Coat.) 

Joss.  The  house-god  of  the  Chinese  ; 
every  family  has  its  joss.  A  temple  is 
called  a  joss-house. 

Josse.  '  Vous  etcs  orfevrr.  Monsieur 
Joss-e  (You  are  a  jeweller,  Mr.  Josse). 
Nothing  like  leather  ;  great  is  Diana  of 
the  Ephcsians  ;  your  advice  is  not  dis- 
interested. In  Moliere's  comedy  of 
L^ Amour  Medecin,  a  silversmith,  by  the 
name  of  Josse,  being  asked  the  best  way 


of  curing  a  lady  pining  from  love, 
recommends  a  handsome  present  of 
jewellery.  The  father  replies,  "  You 
advise  me  like  a  jeweller,  Mr.  Josse." 

Jot.  Kotajot.  "  Jot "  is  a  contrac- 
tion of  iota,  called  the  Lncedemoninn 
letter,  and  the  smallest  in  the  al^jliabet ; 
or  the  Hebrew  ijod. 

Jo'tham,  in  Dryden's  satire  of  Ab- 
salom (Old  Achitophel,  means  Saville, 
Marquis  of  Halifax.  Jotham  was  the 
person  who  uttered  the  parable  of  The 
Trees  Choosinff  a  Kiiifi  when  the  men 
of  Shechem  made  Abimelech  kuig. 
(Judges  ix.) 

Jotunheim  (pron.  Vtun-hime).  Giant 
land.  The  home  or  region  of  the  Scan- 
dinavian giants  or  joten. 

Jour  Maigre  (French).  A  day  of 
abstinence,  when  meat  is  forbidden  to 
be  eaten.     {Sec  Banian  Days.) 

Jourdain  {Monsieur),  in  Moliere's 
comedy  of  Le  Bourejeois  (lentilhomme. 
He  represents  a  bourgeois  placed  by 
wealth  in  the  ranks  of  gentlemen,  and 
making  himself  extremely  ridiculous  by 
his  endeavours  to  acquire  their  accom- 
l)lishments. 

Journal.  (Latin,  diurnum,  a  daily 
thing  ;  Wekh,  diwrnod :  Italian,  (jiorno  ; 
Trench,  Journa/,  jouma],  jour,  a  day.) 

Applied  to  newspapers,  the  word 
strictly  means  a  daily  paper ;  but  the 
extension  of  the  term  to  weekly  papers 
is  sanctioned  by  custom. 

Journey.  A  Sabbath -dai/\s  Journei/. 
The  distance  between  the  farthest  tents 
in  the  wilderness  and  the  tabernacle  of 
Moses,  a  radius  of  about  a  mile  ;  this 
would  make  the  entire  encampment  to 
cover  a  circumference  of  six  miles. 

Journey-weight.  The  weight  of 
certain  parcels  of  gold  in  the  mint.  A 
Journei/  of  r/otd  is  fifteen  pounds  Troy, 
which  is  coined  into  701  sovereigns,  or 
double  that  number  of  half-sovereigns. 
A  Journei/  of  silrer  is  sixty  pounds  Troy, 
which  is  coined  into  3,960  shillings,  or 
double  that  number  of  sixpences,  half 
that  number  of  florins,  etc.  So  called 
because  this  weight  of  coin  was  at  one 
time  esteemed  a  day's  mintage.  (French, 
Journee.) 

Jouvence  (2  syl.).  You  have  been  to 
the  fountain  of  Jonrence—i.e.  You  have 
grown  young  again.  This  is  a  French 
phrase.  Jouvence  is  a  town  of  France 
in  the  department  of  Saone-et-Loire, 
and  has  a  fountain  called  lafontalne  de 


Jove 


O'.tO 


Judas  Kiss 


Jourciice ;  Lut  Jouvence  means  also 
j/oiith,  and  InfoiitairiC  dejoiivciirr  may  be 
rendered  "  the  fountain  of  youth."  The 
jilay  on  the  word  gave  rise  to  the  tradition 
tliat  whoever  drank  of  tliis  fountain 
woxdd  become  young  again. 

Jove  (1  syl.).  {Sec  Jupitee.)  The 
Titans  made  war  against  Jove,  and  tried 
to  dethrone  him. 

"  Xot,  Htroni-'cr  were  of  olil  (lie  j-'iant  crew. 
WUii  soiw.'lil  l,i->  imll  liiKli  .love  from  vpLral  state." 
Tlivmson  :  Cantlc  uf  luiiohiice,  canto  I. 

Milton,  in  Faradisc  Lost,  makes  Jove 
one  of  the  fallen  angels  (i.  512). 

Jo'via].  Merry  and  sociable,  like 
those  born  under  the  planet  Jupiter, 
which  astrologers  considered  the  hajipiest 
of  the  natal  stars. 

"Our  jiivial  star  reigned  at  Iiis  birth." 

ShiiUespcare :  Ci/iiibcliiie,  v.  •). 

Joy.  77/(^  srrr)>  joi/x  of  the  Virr/itt  : 
(1)  The  anniniciation  ;  (2)  the  visitation  ; 
(3)  the  nativity  ;  (4)  the  adoration  of  tlio 
three  kings  ;  (.'))  the  presentation  in  the 
temple  ;  (6)  the  discovery  of  her  youthful 
Son  in  the  temple  in  the  midst  of  the 
doctors  :  (7)  her  assumption  and  corona- 
tion.    {See  Sorrow.) 

Joycuse  (2  syl.).  Charlemagne's 
sword,  wliich  bore  the  inscription  Drcein 
prtrcrptd'rKiii  ctmlos  Ccir'uhfs  ;  the  sword 
of  Guillaume  au  Court-Neji :  anyone's 
sword.  It  was  buried  with  Charlc- 
maguc.     {'Sec  Swords.) 

Joyeuse  Garde  or  Gayde-Jnifcxse. 
The  estate  given  bv  King  Arthur  to 
Sir  Launcelot  of  the  Lake  for  defending 
the  Queen's  honour  against  Sir  Mador. 

Juan  Fernandez.  A  rocky  island 
in  the  Pacitic  Ocean,  oflf  the  coast  of 
Chili.  Here  Alexander  Selkirk,  a  buc- 
caneer, re.sidcd  in  solitude  for  four  years, 
and  his  history  is  commonly  supposed 
to  be  the  basis  of  Defoe's  Itubinson 
Crusoe. 

Sailors  commonly  believe  that  this 
island  is  the  scene  of  Crusoe's  adventures ; 
but  Defoe  distinctly  indicates  an  island 
on  the  east  coast  of  South  America,  some- 
where near  Dutch  Guiana. 

Jubal  [ff  trumpet'].  The  son  of 
Lamech  and  Adah.  He  is  called  the 
inventor  of  the  lyre  and  flute  (Gen.  iv. 
19-21). 

"  Then  when  he  [Jiiran]  heard  the  voice  of  JuhaVs 
lyre. 
Instinctive  frenius  cauprht  tlie  ethereal  Are." 
Montyomcryj  :  The  World  Before  the  Flodd.  c.  1. 

Ju'bilee  (Jewish) .  The  year  of  jubilee. 
Every  fiftieth  year,  when  land  that  had 
passed  out  of  the  possession  of  those  to 


whom  it  originally  belonged  was  restored 
to  them ;  all  who  had  been  reduced  to 
jioverty,  and  were  obliged  to  let  them- 
selves out  for  hire,  were  released  from 
bondage  ;  and  all  debts  were  cancelled. 
The  word  is  ivom  jobil  (a  ram's  horn),  so 
called  because  it  was  luoclaimed  with 
trmnpets  of  rams'  horns.  {See  Leviticus 
XXV.  11-34,  P.9-54  ;  and  xxvii.  16-24.) 

.Jubilee  (in  the  Catholic  Church).  Every 
twenty-fifth  year,  for  the  jiurjiose  of 
granting  indulgences.  Boniface  VIII. 
instituted  it  in  1300,  and  ordered  it  to  bo 
observed  every  hundred  yetirs.  Clement 
VI.  reduced  the  interval  to  fifty  years, 
Urban  IV.  to  thirty,  and  Sixtus  IV.  to 
twenty-five. 

I'rvtestant  Jnbihe^  celebrated  in  Ger- 
many in  1(J17,  the  centenary  of  the 
Eeformation. 

Shnhespeare  .Tidiilee,  held  at  Stratford- 
on-Avcu.  Se]>tember  fith,  1760. 

J/ibilerin  commemorate  the  commence- 
ment of  the  fiftieth  year  of  the  reign  cf 
George  III.,  October  2r)th,  1809. 

.Jubilee  to  celebrate  the  close  of  the 
Revolutionary  War,  August  l^^t,  1814. 

1887.  The  Jubilee  to  commemorate 
the  fiftieth  year  of  the  reign  of  Queen 
Victoria. 

Jn'daise  (3  syl).  To  convert  rr 
conform  to  the  doctrines,  rites,  or  mtiii- 
ners  of  the  Jews.  A  .Judaisiiif/  spirit  is 
a  desire  to  convert  others  to  the  Jewi.-h 
religion. 

Ju'dnicm  (3  syl.).  The  religion  of 
the  Jews,  or  anything  else  which  is  sjjc- 
cial  to  that  peoj)le. 

Ju'das,  in  the  satire  of  Absnlrjm  and 
Aehitophel,  by  Dryden  and  Tate,  was 
meant  for  Mr.  Furgueson,  a  Noncon- 
fonnist.  He  was  ejected  in  1662  from 
his  living  of  Godmersham,  in  Kent,  and 
afterwards  distinguished  himself  by 
his  political  intrigues.  He  joined  the 
Duke  of  Monmouth,  whom  he  after- 
wards betrayed. 

Le  poi»t  de  Judas  (French).  The 
number  thirteen.  The  Messiah  and  His 
twelve  disciples  made  thirteen.  And  as 
Judas  was  the  first  to  die,  he  was  the 
thirteenth.  At  the  death  of  the  Saviour, 
the  number  being  reduced  to  eleven,  a 
twelfth  (Matthias)  was  elected  by  lot 
to  fill  the  place  of  the  traitor. 

Judas  Kiss  {A^.  A  deceitful  act  of 
courtesy.  Judas  betrayed  his  Master 
with  a  kiss. 

'■  Sci  .Tildas  kissed  his  Master, 
And  cried.  '.Ml  hail!"  wlieiias  he  meant    all 
luirm.'         Shiihcsfetirc :  3  Jlchnj  Vl.,  v. ", 


Judas  Slits 


GOl 


Juggernaut 


Judas  Slits  or  Judas  Holes.    The 

peep-holes  in  a  prisou-door,  through 
which  the  guard  looks  into  Ihe  cell  to 
see  if  all  is  right ;  when  not  in  use,  the 
holes  are  covered  up. 

"  It  was  tlie  faint  click  iiiaile  liy  the  cover  of  tlie 
'  Jiiilas'  as  it  falls  back  into  tlie  place  over  tlie 
slit  wiicie  till'  c\  PS  bave  \ieen."— The  Cfiitury  : 
liitSi-idit  Political  Prisons.  Fcliriiary,  l.s.sM,  ji.  5i'l. 

Judas  Tree.  A  translation  of  the 
Latin  (trbor  Judtc.  The  name  has  given 
rise  to  a  Greek  tradition  that  it  was  upon 
one  of  these  trees  that  Judas  Iscariot 
hanged  himself. 

Judas-coloured  Hair.  Fiery-red. 
Cain  is  represented  with  red  hair. 

'■His  vpi-y  liajr  is  nf  tlie  (lisseiiililiiiLr  colour, 
sonietliiii^'  hrowiier  than  Judas  s."— ,S/i«A'c.-;)C((i'i;: 
As  You  l.ilce  It,  iii.  4. 

Jude  C'SV.),  in  Christian  art,  is  repre- 
sented with  a  club  or  staff,  and  a  car- 
jteuter's  square,  in  allusion  to  his  trade. 

Judee.  L(i  petite  Jitdce  (French). 
The  in'efecfure  of  police  :  so  called 
because  the  bureau  is  in  the  Rue  de  Jeru- 
salem, and  tliose  taken  there  for  oil'ences 
look  on  the  police  as  their  betraj'crs. 

Judge's  Black  Cap.  The  judge  puf  s 
on  his  black  cap  (now  a  three-cornered 
piece  of  black  silk)  when  he  condemns 
to  death,  in  sign  of  mourning.  This 
sign  is  very  ancient.  "Haman  hasted 
to  his  house  mourning,  having  his  head 
covered"  (Esther  vi.  12).  David  wept 
"  and  had  his  head  covered  "  ('2  Samuel 
XV.  30).  Demosthenes  went  home  with 
his  head  covered  when  insulted  by  the 
populace.  Darius  covered  his  head  on 
learuing  the  death  of  his  queen.  Malcolm 
says  to  Macduff  in  his  deep  sorrow, 
"  What,  man  !  ne'er  jnill  your  hat  upon 
j'our  brows"  {Macbeth,  iv.  3).  And  the 
yncient  English,  says  Fosbroke,  "  drew 
their  hoods  forward  over  their  heads  at 
funerals." 

Judges'  Rcbcs.  In  the  criminal 
courts,  where  the  judges  represent  the 
sovereign,  they  appear  in  full  court 
dress,  and  wear  a  scarlet  robe ;  but  in 
Nisi  Prius  Courts  Ihe  judge  sits  merely 
to  balance  the  law  between  civilians, 
and  tlierefore  appears  in  his  judicial 
imdrcES,  or  violet  gown. 

Ju'dica  (Latin).  The  fifth  Sunday 
after  Lent ;  so  called  from  the  first  word 
of  the  service  for  the  daj-,  Jitdica  me, 
Ilcm'iue  (Judge  me,  O  Lord).  (Psalm 
xliii.) 

Judicium  Crucis  was  stretching  out 
the  arms  before  a  cross,  till  one  of  the 
part}-  could  hold  cut  no  longer,  and  lost 
his  cause.       The  bishop  of  Paris  and 


abbot  of  St.  Denis  appealed  to  this 
judgment  in  a  dispute  they  had  about 
the  patronage  of  a  monastery  ;  each  of 
the  disputants  selected  a  man  to  repre- 
sent his  cause,  and  the  man  selected  by 
the  bishop  gave  in,  so  that  the  award 
was  given  in  favour  of  the  abbot. 

Judicium  Dei  (Latin).  The  trial 
of  guilt  by  direct  appeal  to  God,  under 
the  notion  that  He  would  defend  the 
right  even  liy  miracle.  There  were  nu- 
merous methods  of  appeal,  as  by  single 
combat,  ordeal  by  water  or  fire,  eating 
a  crust  of  bread,  standing  with  arms  ex- 
tended, consulting  the  Bible,  etc.,  etc. 

Ju'dith.  The  Jewish  heroine  of 
Bethu'lia,  who  perilled  her  life  in  the 
tent  of  Holof ernes,  the  general  of  Nebu- 
chadnezzar, in  order  to  save  her  native 
town.  The  bold  adventurer  cut  off  the 
head  of  the  Assj'riau,  and  her  townsmen, 
rushing  on  the  invaders,  defeated  them 
with  great  slaughter.  {TIte  Booh  of 
Jitdith.) 

Jug  (-/)  or  a  Sto))e  JiKj.  A  prison. 
{See  JoGGis.) 

Juge  de  Paix  (French).     A  cudgel. 

"Albeit  M.uc.'ii,  contlainiir  a  iiiiirt  le  7  tlorfiil 
an.  ii.  axaiit  ilit  .iiic  les  jaculiiiis  (■taicnt  tnu  ilc! 
scclC'iats  ct  (Ks  roiiuiiis,  c:  moiiir.iiit  un  ,i;nis 
Iwtini  iin'il  lenait  A  la,  main:  Voila  wn  Miitri-  ik^ 
l'ai,\  '  (|ui  me  seiviia  a  li'iir  cas^scr  la  bane  dii 
con."— t.  /'.  Pi-ddliuiiime :  Diet,  clcs  ImUi-idus  Con- 


dannie 


etc. 


Jugged  Hare.  The  hare  being  cut 
up  is  put  into  a  jug  or  pipkin,  and  the 
pipkin  is  set  in  a  pan  of  water.  This 
bain  marie  prevents  the  contents  of  the 
pipkin  from  being  burnt. 

Juggernaut  or  Jaggernaut.  A 
Hindu  god.  The  word  is  a  corruption 
of  the  Sanscrit  jariannntha  (lord  of  the 
world).  The  temple  of  this  god  is  in  a 
town  of  the  same  name  in  Orissa.  King 
Ayeen  Akbery  pent  a  learned  Brahman 
to  look  out  a  site  for  a  temple.  The 
Brahman  wandered  about  for  many 
days,  and  then  saw  a  crow  dive  into  the 
water,  and  having  washed,  made  obeis- 
ance 10  the  element.  This  was  selected 
as  the  site  of  the  temple.  While  the 
temple  was  a-buildiug  the  rajah  had  a 
prophetic  dream,  telling  him  that  the 
true  form  of  Vishnu  should  be  revealed 
to  him  in  the  morning.  Whea  the  rajah 
went  to  see  the  temple  he  bclield  a  log 
of  wood  in  the  water,  and  this  log  he 
accepted  as  the  realisation  of  his  dream, 
enshrined  it  in  the  temple,  and  called  it 
Jagannath. 

"  Tbe  idol  Jag.cernat  is  in  shape  like  a  serpen', 
with  seven  heads  ;  and  on  each  cheek  it  hath 
the  fiirm  of  a  wing,  and  the  wiuirs  open, and  shut, 
and  flap  as  it  is  carried  in  a  stately  chariot."— 
BriUon:  CliuichiWs  Collection. 


Juggler 


G92 


Jumper 


Tlie  car  of  Jiiqgcrnaut.  Au  enormous 
wooden  machine  adorned  vvitli  all  sorts 
of  figures,  and  mouuted  on  sixteen 
■vvhcel.s.  Fifty  men  drag  it  annually  to 
the  temple,  and  it  is  said  to  contain  a 
hride  for  tlie  god.  Formerly  many  were 
cruslied  to  death  l)y  the  car ;  some  being 
inished  down  by  the  enoimous  crowd; 
some  throwing  themselves  under  the 
Avheels,  as  persons  in  England  under  a 
railway  train  ;  some  perhaps  as  devotees. 
By  IJiitish  police  arrangements,  such 
immolation  is  practically  abolished. 

Juggler  means  a  player.  (Latin, 
jociiltitor.)  These  jugglers  accompanied 
the  miustrels  and  troubadours,  to  assist 
them,  and  added  to  their  musical  talents 
sleight-of-hand,  antics,  and  feats  of 
l^rowess,  to  amuse  the  company  assem- 
bled. In  time  the  music  was  dropped  as 
the  least  attractive,  and  tricks  became 
the  staple  of  these  wandering  perfonners. 
{Latin,  JorK,'uloi\  JocH.i,  a  joke  or  trick.) 

Juggs  or  Jougs.  The  name  given  in 
Scotland  to  a  .sort  of  i)illory,  consisting 
of  an  iron  I'ing  or  collar  fastened  by  a 
short  chain  to  a  wall,  as  the  "juggs  "  of 
Uuddingston,  Edinburgh.    (.SVr  Joaais.) 

Julian,  th(^  Roman  emperor,  boasted 
that  he  would  rebuild  Jerusalem,  but 
was  mortally  wounded  by  au  arrow 
before  the  foundation  was  laid.  Much 
has  been  made  of  this  by  early  Christian 
writers,  who  dwell  on  the  prohibition 
and  curse  pronounced  against  those  who 
should  attempt  to  rebuild  the  city,  and 
the  fate  of  Jidian  is  pointed  out  as  an 
example  of  Divine  wrath  against  the 
impious  disregarder  of  the  threat. 

"  Well  pleasnd  tlioy  look  fiirSiou's  coniiiifr  state, 
Nor  tliiuk  of  Julian's  Ijoast  anc!  .liiliatis  fate." 
Vrabbe :  BoroiKjh. 

St.  Jidian.     Patron  saint  of  travellers 
and  of  hospitality.     Represented  as  ac- 
companied by  a  stag  in  allusion  to  his 
early  career  as  a  hunter  ;  and  either  re- 
ceiving the  poor  and  afflicted,  or  ferrying 
travellers  across  a  river. 
"  An  lioiiselialdere,  and  that  a  gret,  was  he  ! 
Seynt  Julian  lie  was  in  his  countre, 
His   breed,  his  ale,  was  alway  after  con  [one 

pattern]  ; 
A  bettre  envyned  man  was  nowhere  noon.'' 
Chaucer:  The  Frankelei/n,  liitroditctionto 
Canterbury  Tales. 

St.  Julian  teas  he  deemed.  A  great 
epicure.     St.  Julian  was  the  epicurean 

of  saints.     {See  above.) 

Julian  Epoch  or  Era.  That  of  the 
reformed  calendar  by  Julius  Caesar, 
which  began  forty-six  years  before 
Christ. 

Julian  Period  is  produced  by  mul- 
tiplying  together  the  lunar  cycle,  the 


solar  cycle,  and  the  Roman  iudiction. 
The  first  year  of  the  Christian  era  cor- 
responded to  the  j-ear4713of  the  Julian, 
and  therefore  to  reduce  our  B.C.  dates  to 
the  Julian,  we  must  subtract  them  from 
471-i,  but  our  a.d.  dates  we  nmst  add  to 
that  number.  So  named  from  Julius 
Scaligcr,  the  deviser  of  it. 

Jnlian  period.  Multiply  -H  by  1!)  anJ  by  15, 
which  will  Kivo  7.n«i,  I  ho  time  when  the  solarand 
lunar  perioils  apree. 

Julian  Year.  The  year  regulated 
by  Julius  Ca!far,  which  continued  to  be 
observed  till  it  was  corrected  by  Pope 
Gregory  XIII.  in  1582. 

Julienne  Soup.  Clear  meat  soup, 
containing  chopped  vegetables,  especially 
carrots  ;  so  called  after  Julieu,  a  French 
cook,  of  Boston. 

Juliet.  Daughter  of  Lady  Capulet, 
and  "sweet  sweeting"  of  Romeo,  in 
Shakesiieare's  tragedy  of  Roiiieo  and 
Juliet.  She  has  become  a  household 
word  for  a  lady-love. 

Ju'lium  Si'dus.  The  comet  which 
ajijH'ared  at  the  death  of  Julius  Ca-sar, 
and  wliich  in  court  flattery  was  called 
the  apotheo  sis  of  the  murdered  man. 

July'.  The  seventh  month,  named 
by  Mark  Antony,  in  honour  of  Julius 
C;esar,  who  was  born  in  it. 

Ju'mala.  The  supreme  idol  of  the 
ancient  Finns  and  La]i])s.  The  word  is 
sometinies  used  by  the  Scandinavian 
poets  for  the  Almighty. 

"On  a  lonely  cliff 
An  ancient  shrine  ho  found,  of  Jumala  the  seat. 
For  many  a  year  pone  by  closed  uii  and  desolate." 
Frithiof-fiaja :  The  Rec(incili((tion. 

Jump.  To  jump  or  to  fit  or  unite  with 
like  a  graft ;  as,  both  oar  inventions  meet 
and  Jump  in  one.  Hence  the  adverb 
exactly,  precisely. 

"ttood  advice  is  easily  followed  when  it  jumps 
with  our  own  .  .  .  inclinations."— iocAftai-it;  Sir 
Walter  Scott,  chap.  s.  p.  341. 

V  The  Scotch  use  Jimp,  as,  "  When 
she  had  been  married  jimp  four  months." 
{The  Antiquary.) 

Jump  at  an  Offer  {To).  To  accept 
eagerly. 

Jump  Over  tlie  Broomstick  {To). 

To  marry  in  an  informal  way.  A 
' '  broiu ' '  is  the  bit  of  a  bridle  ;  to 
"jump  the  brom  "  is  to  skip  over  the 
marriage  restraint,  and  "broomstick" 
is  a  mere  corruption. 

"A  Romish  weddiiii;  is  surely  better  than 
iumpiiife'  over  a  broomsrick." — (I.  A.  Sala. 

Jumper.  The  longest  jumper  on 
record  was  Phayllos,  who  is  accredited 


Jund 


693 


Jurassic  EocliS 


■with  jumping  55  feet.     Half  that  length 
would  be  an  enormous  jump. 

A  cvutiter  jumper.  A  draper's  appren- 
tice or  einjiloj'e,  who  is  accustomed  to 
jump  over  the  shop  counter  to  save  the 
trouble  and  time  of  going  round. 

June  (I  s}-!.).  The  sixth  month.  Ovid 
says,  '■'Jionxs  a  juveiiidn  voniinc  dictii-s.'" 
(Fasti,  V.  78.) 

June  Marriages  Lucky.  "Good 
to  the  man  and  happy  to  the  maid." 
This  is  an  old  Roman  superstition.  The 
festival  of  Juno  moneta  was  held  on  the 
calends  of  June,  aiid  Juno  was  the  great 
guardian  of  the  female  sex  from  birth 
to  death. 

Ju'nior  Op'time.  A  Cambridge 
University  tenn,  meaning  a  third-class 
"  honour"  man — i.e.  in  the  mathemati- 
cal "  honour"  examination. 

Ju'nior  Soph.  A  man  of  the  second 
year's  standing  is  so  called  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Cambridge.     (See  Soph.) 

Ju'nlus.  Letters  ofjioiiiix.  In  1871 
was  published  a  book  entitled  T/ie  Haud- 
writiiie/  of  Jioiiiix  I'rofessioitaUi/  Investi- 
gated bt/  Mr.  Charles  Chabot,  expert. 
The  object  of  this  book  is  to  prove  that 
Sir  Phih'p  Francis  was  the  author  of 
the.'.e  letters.  On  the  2-2nd  May,  1871, 
appeared  an  article  in  the  'Times  to  show 
that  the  case  is  "not  proven"  by  Mr. 
Chabot.  Mr.  Pitt  told  Lord  Aberdeen 
that  he  knew  who  wrote  the  Junius 
Letters,  and  that  it  was  not  Francis. 
Lady  Grenville  sent  a  letter  to  the 
editor  of  J)iaries  of  a  Lady  of  Quality  to 
the  same  effect. 

Junk,  Latin,  jiairiis,  from  jinign,  to 
join  ;  used  for  binding,  making  baskets, 
mats.  'Yh.&jnitcus  maritliinis  is  useful  in 
binding  together  the  loose  sands  of  the 
sea-shore,  and  obstructing  the  iucur- 
sions  of  the  sea.  The  jioieus  eunglomer- 
dtiis  is  used  in  Holland  for  giving 
stability  to  river-banks  and  canals.  (See 
KuSH.) 

Junk.  Salt  meat  supplied  to  vessels 
for  long  voyages  ;  so  called  because  it  is 
hard  and  tough  as  old  rope-ends  so  called. 
Ropes  are  called  junks  because  they  were 
once  made  of  bulrushes.  Junk  is  often 
called  salt  horse.     {See  Haeness  Cask.) 

Jun'ket.  Curded  cream  with  spice, 
etc. ;  any  dainty.  The  word  is  the 
Italian  fi  in  neat  a  (curd  or  cream  cheese), 
so  called  because  carried  on  junk  or  bul- 
rushes (giiiiiec). 

"You  know  there  wants  no  junkets  at  the  feast." 
Hhakespearc :  Taming  of  the  tihrew,  iii.  i'. 


Junner.  A  giant  in  Scandinavian 
mythology,  said  in  the  Edda  to  represent 
the  "  eternal  princii:)le. "  Its  skull  forms 
the  heavens  ;  its  eyes  the  sun  and  moon  ; 
its  shoulders  the  mountains ;  its  bones 
the  rocks,  etc.  ;  hence  the  poets  call 
heaven  "  Junner's  skull;"  the  sun, 
"Junner's  right  eye;"  the  moon,  "Jun- 
ner's left  eye;"  the  rivers,  "the  ichor 
of  old  Junner."     (iVt' GiAXTS.) 

Ju'no.  The  "venerable  ox-eyed" 
wife  of  Jupiter,  and  queen  of  heaven. 
(Roman  mythology .) 

'.'  The  famous  marble  statue  of  the 
Campana  Juno  is  in  the  Vatican. 

Juno'nian  Bird.  The  peacock,  dedi- 
cated to  the  goddess-queen. 

Junto.  Afaction  consisting  of  Russell, 
Lord-Keeper  Somers,  Charles  Montague, 
and  several  other  men  of  mark,  who 
ruled  the  Whigs  in  the  reign  of  Wil- 
liam III.  for  nearly  twenty  j-ears,  and 
exercised  a  very  great  influence  over  the 
nation.  The  word  is  a  corruption  of 
the  Spanish  junta  (an  admiiiisti-ativo 
assembly),  but  is  in  English  a  term  of 
censure. 

Jupiter  is  the  Latin  form  of  Zev? 
TraT^p.  Verospi's  statue  of  Jupiter  is  in 
the  Vatican  ;  but  one  of  the  seven  won- 
ders of  the  world  was  the  statue  of 
Olympian  Jove,  by  Phidias,  destroyed 
by  fire  in  Constantinoj^le  a.d.  475. 

This  gigantic  statue  was  nearly  sixty  feet 
high,  though  seated  on  a  throne.  The  statue  was 
made  of  ivory  ;  the  throne  of  cedar-wood,  adorned 
with  ivory,  ebony,  ijold,  and  precious  stones.  The 
god  holds  in  his  right  hand  a  golden  statue  of 
Victory,and  his  left  hand  rested  on  a  long  sceptre 
surmounted  with  an  eagle.  Themijeof  the  god 
was  of  gold,  and  so  was  the  footstoul  supported 
by  golden  lions.  This  wonderful  wurk  of  art  was 
removed  to  Constantinople  liy  Theodosius  I. 

Jupiter.  With  the  ancient  alchemists 
designated  tin. 

Jupiter  Scapin.  A  nickname  of 
Napoleon  Bonaparte,  given  him  by  the 
Abbe  de  Pradt.  Scapin  is  a  valet  famous 
for  his  knavish  tricks,  in  Molicre's  comedy 
of  Les  Fourberies  dc  Scapin. 

Jupiter's  Beard.  House-leek.  Sup- 
posed to  be  a  charm  against  evil  spirits 
and  lightning.  Hence  grown  at  one 
time  very  generally  on  the  thatch  of 
houses. 

"Et  liabet  quisune  supra  domum  suum  Jovis 
barljaui."—t7i  II  )•;<■»!(((;»(;'«■  Edict. 

Jurassic  Rocks.  Limestone  rocks ; 
so  called  from  the  Jura ;  the  Jurassic 
period  is  the  geological  period  when 
these  rocks  were  formed.  Our  oolitic 
series  pretty  nearly  corresponds  with 
the  Jurassic. 


Jurisprudence 


G04 


Kabibonokka 


Jurisprudence.  Tlic  Father  ofjtiris- 
prKili'iicf.  Glaiiville,  who  wrote  Trac- 
ta'tns  de  Leq'ihus  et  ConsuctHdbnhHs 
Aiifillcp  in  1181  (died  1190). 

Jury  Leg  (^4).  A  wooden  leg,  or 
leg  for  the  nonce.     {See  Jury  Mast.) 

■'  I  took  llic  lec  off  with  iiiy  saw  .  .  .  seared  the 
stunjp  .  .  .  and  made  a  jury  lej,'  that  he  sliaiiihles 
ahoiit  with  as  well  as  ever  he  did."— .Sir  If.  Scott : 
The  Pirate,  chaii.  xxxiv. 

Jury  Mast.  A  corruption  of  joury 
mast — i.e.  a  mast  for  the  day,  a  tem- 
jjorary  mast,  being  a  spar  used  for  the 
iiouce  when  the  mast  has  been  carried 
iiwaj'.     (French,  70«r,  a  day.) 

Jus  Civi  le.    Civil  law. 

Jus  Divi'num.    Divine  law. 

Jus  Gen'tium  (Latin).  International 
law. 

Jus  Mari'ti  (Latin).  The  right  of 
the  husband  to  the  \vife'.s  iirojierty. 

Jus  de  Rcglisse  (liquorice).  French 
■slang  for  a  negro. 

Jus  et  Norma  Loquendi.  The  right 
method  of  speakiug  and  pronouncing 
established  by  tlie  custom  of  each  par- 
ticular nation.  The  whole  phrase  is 
'■•  Coiisuetudo,  Jks  ct  norma  loqiieiidi,'" 
{Horace.) 

Just  {The). 

Aristi'dGs,  the  Athenian  (died  B.C. 
468). 

Ba'haram,  styled  Shah  Endch  (the  Just 
King),  fifth  of  the  Sassan'idns  ('/•''.) 
(276-296). 

Casimir  II.,  King  of  Poland  (1117, 
1177-1194). 

Ferdinand  I.,  King  of  Aragou  (1373, 
U12-1416). 

Haroun  al  Easchid  (The  Just).  The 
most  renowned  of  the  Abbasside  califs, 
and  the  hero  of  several  of  the  Arabian 
Xifihts  stories  (76),  786-808). 

James  II.,  King  of  Aragon  (1261-1327). 

Khosru  or  Chosroes,  called  by  the 
Arabs  Molk  al  Adel  (the  Just  King). 

Moran  the  Just,  councillor  of  Fere- 
dacli,  King  of  Ireland. 

Tedio  I.  of  Portugal  (1320, 1357, 1367). 

Juste  Milieu  (French).  The  golden 
mean. 

Justices  in  Eyre  (pron.  ii-e).  A 
contraction  and  corruption  of  Itin'cre — 
i.e.  on  circuit. 

Justing  of  Watson  and  Barbour. 

A  description  of  a  ludicrous  tilt  between 
Watson  and  Barbour,  in  Scotch  verse,  by 
Sir  David  Lindsav. 


Justinian.  The  Eiiqlish  Jitstiinan. 
Edward  1.  (1239,  1272-1307). 

Ju' venal  (Latin,  from  jiireiiis).  A 
j-outh  ;  common  in  Shakespeare,  thus — 

■'Tlir'  Juvenal,  the  prince  your  master,  whose 
chiu  is  not  yet  Uedged."—:;  Henry  /!',,  i.  i. 

Juvenal. 

T/ie  Juu/lish  Jareiial.  John  Oldham 
(16.53-1683). 

I'he  Jiiieiial  of  Painters.  William 
Hogarth  (1697-1764). 

Juveniles  (3  syl.),  in  theatrical  par- 
lance, means  those  actors  who  play 
young  men's  parts,  whefher  in  tragedy, 
melodrama,  or  light  comedy,  T.'ius  a 
manager  scoring  a  plaj'  would  write 
against  Hamlet,  not  the  name  of  tlie 
actor,  but  "the  leading  Juvenile." 


K 

K.  To  be  branded  with  a  K  {l:ahtmnia). 
So,  according  to  the  J.ex  Mriiiinia,  fal.se 
accusers  were  branded  in  the  forehead. 

K.  The  three  had  K\<t.  The  Greeks 
so  called  the  Ka'rians,  Kre'tans,  and 
Kilik'ians.  The  IJomans  retained  Ihe 
.same  expression,  though  they  spelt  the 
three  nations  with  C  instead  of  K. 

K.C.B.  Knight  Commander  of  the 
Bath. 

K.G.     Knight  of  the  Garter. 

K.K.  is  the  German  Iiaiserliehe 
KiinicjJivhe.  The  Emperor  of  Austria 
is  styled  K.K.  Majestiit  (His  Imperial 
Eoyal  Majesty). 

K.O.B.  {^t.e.  the  King's  Own  Bor- 
derers). The  2.5th  Foot,  so  called  in 
1805. 

Ka  Me,  Ka  Thee.  One  good  turn 
deserves  another  ;  do  me  a  service,  and 
I  will  give  you  a  helping  hand  when  you 
require  one.  (Latin,  Fricanteni  frica,  or 
3Ii(Ii  mutao  scahant.) 

"Ka  me,  ka  thee,  is  a  proverb  all  over  tLe 
world."— .S'/i-  ir.  Scott:  Ketiilirorth,  ehap.  v. 

Ka'aba  (Arabic,  ka'hali,  a  square 
house).  A  .shriue  of  Mecca,  said  to  liavo 
been  built  by  Abraham  on  the  spot  wliere 
Adam  first  worshipped  after  liis  expul- 
sion from  Paradise.  In  tlie  north-east 
corner  is  a  stone  seven  inches  long,  said 
to  be  a  ruby  seut  down  from  heaven.  It 
is  now  black,  from  being  kissed  so  often 
by  sinful  man.     {Sec  Adam's  Pkak.) 

Kab'ibonok'ka  (Xorth  -  American 
lu'rian).     Son  of  Mudjekee'wis,  anil  the 


Kadris 


G9J 


Kami 


Indian  Boreas,  who  dwelt  in  Wabasso 
(the  North).  He  paints  the  autumn  leaves 
scarlet  and  yellow,  sends  the  snow,  binds 
th'^  rivers  in  ice,  and  drives  away  the 
s'la-gull,  cormorant,  and   heron.       [8cc 

SriIXC7'E3I3. ) 

Kadris.  Mohammedan  dervishes  who 
lacerate  themselves  with  scourges. 

Kaffir  (Arabic,  Kafir^  an  infidel). 
A  name  given  to  the  Hottentots,  who 
reject  the  Moslem  faith.  Kafiflstan,  in 
Central  Asia,  means  ' '  the  country  of  the 
infidels." 

'■  Tlie  :iffliiit.v  of  the  Kaflr  tribes!  .  .  .  inpluilinflr 
till'  Kallrs  proiiiT  ;uiil  the  i  eoiileof  Ci)iigi>,  isliased 
nil  111  ilir  vriiiniw  idiiiiiis  s|iiiki'ii  l).v  tlieni,  the  di- 
vert rc'ipri'-iciitatn  I's  cif  .'i  (■(iiiiinon,  Imt  now  ex- 
iini-:.iiiothiT  1 1  nil.' 111'.  This;i!,'i,'regateoE  laiigiiaws 
is  now  com  I'liii'iitly  known  as  ...  .  the  Bantu 
liu'jnistic  system."— A'.  Johnston:  Africa,  p.  447. 

Kai-Omurs  (f/ie  mif/hti/  Omurs),  sur- 
nat7ied  (ihll-shah  (earth's  king).  Son  of 
Du'lav^'d,  founder  of  the  city  Balk,  and 
first  of  the  Kai-Omurs  or  Paishdad'ian 
dynasty  of  Persia  (b.c.  940-920).  (*e 
Paisdadiax.) 

Kai-an'ians.  The  sixth  Persian 
dynasty.  The  semi-historic  period  (b.c. 
G60-3:?l).  So  called  because  they  took 
for  their  affix  the  term  hai  (tnighty), 
called  by  the  Greeks  Ku  (Kuros),  and 
by  the  Romans  Cy  (Cyrus). 

Kail'yal  (2  syl.).  The  heroine  of 
Southey's  Curse  of  KcJtdma. 

Kain  Hens.  Hens  that  a  tenant 
piys  to  his  landlord,  as  a  sort  of  rent  in 
kiud  (ill-fed  hens).    (Gitij  Jfainicruif/,  v.) 

Kaiser.  The  German  Emperor. 
He  receives  the  title  from  Dalmatia, 
Croatia,  and  the  line  of  the  Danube, 
which,  by  the  arrangement  of  Diocletian, 
was  governed  by  a  prince  entitled  Coesar 
of  the  Holy  Roman  Empire,  as  successor 
of  the  emperor  of  the  old  Roman  empire. 
It  was  Albert  II.,  Duke  of  Austria,  who 
added  the  Holy  Roman  Empire  to  the 
imperial  throne  in  1438  ;  and  William  I., 
king  of  Prussia,  on  being  crowned  Ger- 
man emperor  in  1871,  took  the  title. 

Kajak.  An  Esquimaux  boat,  used  by 
the  men  only.  Eishteen  feet  long, 
eighteen  inches  broad  in  the  middle,  the 
ends  tapering,  and  one  foot  deep. 

Ka'led  is  Gulnare  (2  .syl.)  in  the  dis- 
guise of  a  page  in  the  service  of  Lai'a. 
After  Lara  was  shot,  she  haunted  thespot 
of  his  death  as  a  crazy  woman,  and  died 
of  a  broken  heart.     (Bi/roii :  Lara.) 

Kaleda  {Sclavonic  mythohqij).  The 
god  of  petice,  somewhat   similar  to  the 


Latin  Jtmus.     His  feast  was  celebrated 
on  the  24th  of  December. 

Kali.  A  Hindu  goddess  after  whom 
Calcutta  receives  its  name,  Kali-Kutta 

{Kul'Cs  village). 

Kaliyu'ga.  The  last  of  the  four 
Hindu  jjeriods  contained  in  the  great 
Yuga,  equal  to  the  Iron  Age  of  classic 
mythology.  It  consisted  of  432,000 
solar-sidereal  years,  and  began  3,102 
years  before  the  Christian  era.  The 
bull,  representing  truth  and  right,  has 
but  one  foot  in  this  period,  because  all 
the  world  delights  in  wickedness.  {Sej 
Keita.) 

Kalmar'.  TJie  U/iio/i  of  Kalmar.  A 
treaty  made  on  July  12th,  1397,  to  settle 
the  succession  of  Norway,  Sweden,  and 
Denmark  on  Queen  Margaret  and  her 
heirs  for  ever.  This  treaty  lasted  only 
till  the  death  of  Margaret. 

Kalmucks  —  i.e.  Khahmdkii  (apos- 
tates) from  Buddhism.  A  race  of  west- 
ern Monguls,  extending  from  western 
China  to  the  valley  of  the  Volg.i  river. 

Kalpa.  A  day  and  night  of  Brahnul, 
a  period  of  4,320,000,000  solar-.sidereal 
years.  Some  say  there  are  an  infinity 
of  Kalpas,  others  limit  the  number  to 
thirty.  A  Great  Kalpa  is  a  life  of 
Brahma ;  the  whole  duration  of  time 
from  the  creation  to  the  destruction  of 
the  world. 

Kalpa-Tarou.  A  tree  in  Indian 
mythology  from  which  might  be  gathered 
whatever  a  person  desired.  This  tree  is 
"  the  tree  of  the  imagination." 

Kalyb.  The  "Lady  of  the  Woods," 
who  stole  St.  George  from  his  nurse, 
brought  him  up  as  her  own  child,  and 
endowed  him  with  gifts.  St.  (ieorge 
enclosed  her  in  a  rock,  where  she  was 
torn  to  pieces  by  spirits.  (Seven  Cham- 
pii.iia  (jf  Chrialcnclom,  part  i.) 

Kam.  Crooked.  (Er.se  kaaui,  squint- 
eved. )  Clean  Kam,  perverted  into  Kim 
Kam,  means  wholly  awrj',  clean  from  the 
purjjose. 

"This  is  clean  kam— merely  awfy." 

Sliah-espeare :  Coriol  iniiK/u'i.  1. 

Kama.  The  Hindu  god  of  love.  His 
wife  is  Rati  (volaptnoaniies.'i),  and  he  is 
represented  as  riding  on  a  sjiarrow, 
holding  in  his  hand  a  bow  of  flowers  and 
five  aiTows  {i.e.  the  five  senses). 

Ka'mi.  The  celestial  gods  of  the 
first  mythical  dynasty  of  Japan,  the 
demi-gods  of  the  second  dynasty,  the 
spiritual    princes,    anyone    sainted    or 


Kamsin 


696 


Kay 


deified ;  and  now  about  equal  to  our 
lord,  a  title  of  respect  paid  to  princes, 
nobles,  miuisters,  and  governors. 

Kamsin.  A  simoom  or  samiel,  a  hot, 
dry,  southerly  wind,  which  prevails  in 
Egypt  and  the  deserts  of  Africa. 

Kansas,  U.S.  America.  So  named 
from  the  Konsos,  an  Indian  tribe  of  the 
localit}\ 

Kansas.  BlecdUig  lunisas.  So  called 
because  it  was  the  place  where  that 
sanguinary  strife  commenced  which 
was  the  prelude  of  the  Civil  War  of 
America.  According  to  the  Missouri 
Compromise  made  in  1820,  slavery  was 
never  to  be  introduced  into  any  western 
region  lying  beyond  36°  30'  north  lati- 
tude. In  1851,  the  slave-holders  of 
Missouri,  by  a  local  act,  pushed  their 
west  frontier  to  tlie  river-bank,  and 
slave  lords,  with  their  slaves,  took 
possession  of  the  Kansas  hunting 
grounds,  declaring  that  they  would 
"lynch,  hang,  tar  and  feather  any  wliite- 
livered  abolitionist  who  presumed  to 
pollute  the  soil."  In  1854,  thirty  New 
England  free-soilers  crossed  the  river 
in  open  boats;  they  were  soon  joined 
by  otliers,  and  dared  the  slavers  to  carry 
out  their  threats.  Many  a  tierce  battle 
was  fought,  but  in  18(31  Bleeding 
Kansas  was  admitted  into  the  Union 
as  a  free  state.  ( Jl^.  llepiroith  JJixon  : 
New  America,  vol.  i.  chap.  2.) 

Karaites  {Scriptitrlsts].  A  Jewish 
sect  that  adhered  to  the  letter  of  the 
Scriptures,  rejecting  all  oral  traditions. 
They  abhorred  the  Talmud,  and  observed 
the  Sabbath  with  more  rigour  than  even 
the  rabbinists. 

Karma.  The  Buddhist's  judgment, 
which  determines  at  denth  the  future 
state  of  the  deceased.  It  is  also  their 
fiat  on  actions,  pronouncing  them  to  be 
meritorious  or  otherwise. 

V  In  Theosophy,  it  means  the  un- 
broken sequence  of  cause  and  effect ; 
each  effect  being,  in  its  tuni,  the  cause 
of  a  subsequent  effect.  It  is  a  Sanscrit 
word,  meaning  "  action  "  or  "se- 
quence." 

"The  I,-nvs  whicli  rleteniiine  tlie  vlivsir.-U  attri- 
Imtiiin.  ronditiiiii  cif  life,  intellectnni  cajKirit  cs, 
ami  S(i  f.irtli,  .if  the  new  l)oily.  to  wliieli  tin-  Kl.'o 
is  ilivuvn  liy  affluities  .  .  .  are  ...  in  Bmldliisni 
rcalii'il]  K-AVnvAr—yineteenth  Centmij,  June,  18y3, 
p.  mi',-,. 

Karma'thians.  A  Mohammedan  sect 
which  rose  in  Irak  in  the  ninth 
Christian  century.  Its  founder  was 
Ahmad,  a  poor  labourer  who  assumed 
the  name  of  Karmat,  and  professed  to 
be  a  prophet. 


Karoon  or  Korah.  The  riches  of 
K(iroo)i  (Arabic  proverb).  Korah,  ac- 
cording to  the  connnontators  of  the 
Koran,  was  the  most  wealtliy  and  most 
beautiful  of  all  tlie  Israelites.  It  is  said 
that  he  built  a  large  palace,  wliich  he 
overlaid  with  gold,  and  that  the  doors 
of  his  jialace  were  solid  gold  {Sule  : 
Kor<ui).  He  was  the  Crnssus  of  flio 
Malionietans,  and  guartled  liis  wealth  in 
a  lal)yriiith. 

Karrows.  A  set  of  gamblers  in 
Ireland,  who  played  away  even  the 
clothes  on  their  backs. 

"Tlic  karrows  iilaie  awaie  mantle  and  all  to  the 
bare  skin,  and  then  tnisse  Ihenisrhes  in  straw 
or  leaves.  The.v  wait  fur  iiasseiii;ci-y  in  the  hi^'li- 
waie,  invite  them  tn  wai  e  v\»i\\  tlie  irreene  and 
aske  no  more  luit  e.mii.anioMS  t  )  make  tlieni 
sport.  For  default  of  other  stnffe  thev  lawne 
their  Klilis,  the  nailes  of  their  Hn^'crs  and  toes, 
the:r  (limiss.u-ies  which  thev  leefe  or  n'deeine  at 
the  conrtc'sy  of  tlie  winner.'-.Sfdni/i/irst. 

Kaswa  {Al).  Mahomet's  favourite 
camel,  which  fell  on  its  knees  in  adora- 
tion when  "the  prophet"  delivered  the 
last  clause  of  the  Koran  to  the  as- 
sembled nudtitude  at  Mecca.  This  is 
one  of  the  dumb  creatures  admitted  into 
the  Moslem  paradise.     {See  Pakadise.) 

Katcrfelto.  A  generic  name  for  a 
quack  or  charlatan.  Katerfelto  v.-as  a 
celebrated  quack  or  infiucnza  doctor. 
He  was  a  tall  man,  who  dressed  iu  a 
long  black  gown  and  square  cap.  In 
1782  he  exhibited  in  Loudon  his  solar 
microscope,  and  created  immense  ex- 
citement by  showing  the  infusoria  of 
[muddj'J  water.  The  doctor  used  to  aver 
that  he  was  the  greatest  pliilosoi^her 
since  the  time  of  Sir  Isaac  Newton. 
"  And  Katerfelto  with  his  hair  on  end, 
At  his  own  wonders  wondrrinLf  for  his  l.read."' 

Cvirpcr  :  The  Til  til: ;  The  ]yii(tcr  Kiciiiiiu  {l"!'2i. 

Katharine  or  Kathari'na.  Daughter 
of  Baptista,  a  rich  gentleman  of  Padua. 
She  was  very  beautiful,  but  a  shrew. 
Petruchio  of  Yero'na  married  her,  and 
so  subdued  her  imperious  temjier  by  liis 
indomitable  will,  that  she  became  the 
model  of  a  "submissive  wife,"  and 
gave  Bianca,  her  sister,  most  excellent 
ad\'ice  respecting  the  duty  of  submission. 
{Shali'sprare  ;   Taming  of  the  Shren:) 

The  Katherine  de'  Medici  of  China. 
Voochee,  widow  of  King  Tae-tsOng. 

Kathay'.    China. 

Katmir.     ( Sec  Ketmie.  ) 

Kay  or  Sir  Key.  Son  of  Sir  Ector, 
and  foster-brother  of  King  Arthur.  In 
Arthurian  romance,  this  seneschal  of 
England  is  represented  as  a  rude  and 
boastfid  knight,  the  first  to  attempt  any 
achievement,  but  very  rarely  successful. 


Kay-wal^d 


CD? 


iteep  Company 


Kayward.  The  hare,  in  the  fale  of 
Mrilitard  the  Fox.  (The  word  meaus 
"  Couutry-guardian.") 

Kebcr'.  A  Persian  sect  (generally 
ricli  merchants),  distinguished  hy  their 
beards  and  dress.  When  one  of  them 
dies,  a  cock  is  driven  out  of  the  poultry 
yard  ;  if  a  fox  seizes  it,  it  is  a  proof  that 
the  soul  of  the  deceased  is  saved.  If 
this  experiment  does  not  answer,  they 
prop  the  dead  body  against  a  wall,  and 
if  the  birds  peck  out  the  right  ej-e  firsf, 
the  Keber  is  gone  to  heaven  ;  if  the  left 
eye,  the  carcase  is  flung  into  the  ditch, 
for  the  Keber  was  a  reprobate. 

Kebla.  The  point  of  adoration  ;  i.e. 
the  quarter  or  point  of  the  compass  to- 
wards which  persons  turn  when  they 
worship.  The  Persian  fire -worshippers 
turn  to  the  east,  the  place  of  tlie  rising 
sun  :  the  Jews  to  Jerusalem,  the  city  of 
the  King  of  kings  ;  the  Mahometans  to 
Mecca  ;  the  early  Christians  turned  to 
the  "  east,"  and  the  "  communion  table" 
even  of  the  "Reformed  Church"  is 
placed  at  the  east  end  of  the  building, 
whenever  this  arrangement  is  practic- 
able.    Any  object  of  passionate  desire. 

Kebla-Nonia.  The  pocket  compass 
carried  by  Mussulmans  to  direct  them 
which  way  to  turn  when  they  pray,  {^ee 
above.) 

Kedar's  Tents.  This  world.  Kedar 
was  Arabia  Deserta,  and  the  phrase 
Kedar's  tents  means  houses  in  the  wilder- 
ness of  this  Avorld. 

"  All  n!p  !  all  nip  !  tliat  1 

In  Kedar's  tents  liere  stay  ; 
No  place  like  tliat  on  bigli  ; 
Lord,  thitlier  guide  my  way." 

Crosfvran. 

Ke'derli.  The  St.  George  of  Ma- 
hometan mythology.  He  slew  a  mon- 
strous dragou  to  save  a  damsel  exposed 
to  its  fury,  and,  having  drunk  of  the 
'.vater  of  life,  rode  about  the  world  to 
aid  those  warriors  Avho  invoked  him. 
This  tradition  is  exactly  parallel  to  that 
of  St.  George,  and  explains  the  reason 
why  the  one  is  the  field-word  with  the 
Turks,  and  the  latter  with  the  ancient 
English. 

Ked'jeree'.  A  stew  of  rice,  vege- 
tables, eggs,  butter,  etc.  A  corruption 
of  the  Indian  word  Khichri  (a medley  or 
hotch-potch).  The  word  has  been  con- 
founded with  a  place  so  called,  forty 
miles  south-west  of  Calcutta,  on  the 
Hooghly  river. 

Keel-hauling  or  -haling.  A  long, 
troublesome,  and  vexatious  examination 
or    repetition    of    annoyances   from    a 


landlord  or  government  official.  In  the 
Dutch  and  many  other  navies,  delin- 
quents were,  at  one  time,  tied  to  a 
yard-arm  with  weights  on  their  feet, 
and  dragged  by  a  rope  under  the  keel 
of  a  ship,  in  at  one  side  and  out  at 
the  other.     The  result  was  often  ftital. 

Keelman  {A).  A  bargeman.  (See 
Old  Mortaliiy  [Introduction],  the  bill 
of  Margaret  Chrystale  :  "  To  three 
chappins  of  yell  with  Sandy  the  keel- 
man,  9d.") 

Keelson  or  Kelson.  A  beam  running 
lengthwise  above  the  keel  of  a  ship,  and 
bolted  to  the  middle  of  the  floor-frames, 
in  order  to  stiffen  the  vessel.  The  word 
son  is  the  Swedish  svln,  and  Norwegian 
svUl,  a  sill.) 

Keening.  A  weird  lamentation  for 
the  dead,  common  in  Galway.  The 
coffin  is  carried  to  the  burying  place, 
and  while  it  is  carried  three  times  round, 
the  mourners  go  to  the  graves  of  their 
nearest  kinsfolk  and  begin  keening, 
after  which  they  smoke. 

Keep  Down  {To).  To  prevent  an- 
other from  rising  to  an  independent 
position  ;  to  keep  in  subjection. 

Keep  House  {To).  To  maintain  a 
separate  establishment ;  to  act  as  house- 
keeper. 

To  keep  open  house.  To  admit  all 
comers  to  hospitable  entertainment. 

Keep  Touch.  To  keep  faith  ;  the 
exact  performance  of  an  agreement,  as, 
"  To  kee]i  touch  with  my  promise " 
{More).  The  idea  seems  to  be  embodied 
in  the  proverb,  "  Seeing  is  believing,  but 
feeling  is  naked  truth." 

"  And  trust  me  on  my  trutli. 
11  tliou  keep  touch  witli  me, 
My  dearest  friend,  as  my  own  heart. 
Thou  slialt  right  welcome  he." 

.S'07/ys  oj  the  Lomloii  'J  rciitices,  y.  37. 

Keep  Up  {To).  To  continue,  as, 
"to  keep  up  a  discussion;"  to  main- 
tain, as,  "  to  keep  up  one's  courage  ;  " 
to  continue  pari  jjassii,  as  "  Keej)  up 
with  the  rest." 

Keep  at  Arm's  Length  {To).  To 
prevent  another  from  being  too  familiar. 

Keep  Ecdy  and    Scul    Tcgether 

(2b).  To  struggle  to  maintain  life  ;  to 
continue  life.  Thus  we  say,  "It  is  as 
much  as  I  can  do  to  keep  body  and  soul 
together;"  and  "To  keep  body  and 
soul  together  "  we  did  so  and  so. 

Keep  Company  with  (7'o).  To  as- 
sociate with  someone  of  another  sex 
with  a  view  of  marriage.    The  phrase 


Keep  Good  Hours 


CDS 


Kennel 


is  almost  confined  to  household  servants 
and  persons  of  a  similar  status. 

Keep  Good  Hours  (Tv).  To  retire 
to  bed  somewhat  early.  Tj  kn'p  had 
hours  is  to  sit  uj)  late  at  night. 

Keop  it  Dark.  Keep  it  as  a  secret ; 
hide  it  from  juiblic  sight  or  know- 
ledge ;  do  not  talk  about  it. 

Keep  One's  Countenancs  {To).  To 
refrain  f roixi  laughing ;  to  preserve  one's 
gravity. 

Keep  One's  Own  Counsel  ( To).  To 
be  reticent  of  one's  own  atfairs  or  }>lan3. 

Keep  your  Breath  to  Cool  your 
Porridge.  Look  after  your  own  affairs, 
and  do  not  ]uit  your  spoke  in  another 
person's  wheel.  Husband  j-our  strength 
to  keej)  your  own  state  safe  and  well, 
and  do  not  waste  it  on  matters  in  which 
you  have  really  no  concern.  Don't  scold 
or  rail  at  me,  but  look  at  home. 

Keep  your    Powder    Dry.      Keep 
jirepared  for  action  ;  kecji  your  courage 
up. 
■•  (lO  fortli  anil  cniiqurr,  Rtrpplicm  mine, 
This  kiss  iiiHiti  your  lii'S  retiiiuiiif,'  ; 
A  I'rcceiit  tlnu  is  also  tliiiie 
I'^orlvils  llip  teanlrop  liot  and  strainin;-'. 
Wi'ie  Mars  and  Veima,  you  aiwt  I, 
And  liotli  must  '  keep  our  powder  drv.'  " 
films:  Diujmut  Balhuls  (In  Love  and  ll'»i-). 

Keepers.  A  staff  of  men  emploj'ed 
by  Irish  landlords  in  1813,  etc.,  to  watch 
the  crops  and  prevent  their  being  smug- 
gled off  during  the  night.  They  were 
resisted  by  the  Moll}'  Maguires. 

Keba'ma.  A  Hindu  rajah  who  ob- 
tains and  sports  with  -  supernatural 
jiowers.     {^Soitthey  :  Curse  of  luh  a  inn.) 

Kelpie  or  Kelpy.  A  spirit  of  the 
waters  in  the  form  of  a  horse,  in  Scot- 
tish mythology.  Not  unlike  the  Irish 
Phooka.     ( See  Fairy.  ) 

'■Every  lake  las  its  Kelvie  or  Water-hor.^e, 
often  se  'n  by  llie  slieplierd  sittini?ni>on  the  lirow 
of  a  rook,  diisliinf,'  aloiiu  tlie  siirfare  of  tliedeeii. 
ir  lirowsiiii,'  iipon  llie  jiasture  on  iis  verj,'c."— 
(Iriiluim  :  Skitclus  of  Ptrthsliire. 

Kelso  Convoy  (J).  A  step  and  a 
half  over  the  door-stone  or  threshold. 

"It's  no  expected  your  honour  suld  leave  the 
land  ;  if  s  just  a  Kelso  convov,  a  step  and  a  half 
oH-er  the  door  s;ano."— ,S(;-  11'.  Scott:  The  Anti- 
Qiuirii,  chap.  x.nx. 

Ke'ma.  Tlie  books  containing  the 
secrets  of  the  genii,  who,  infatuated 
with  love,  revealed  the  marvels  of 
nature  to  men,  and  Avere  banished  out 
of  heaven.  According  to  some  etymolo- 
gists,, the  word  chemistry  is  derived  from 
this  word.     {Zoziine  ranopoVtte.) 


Kemp'fer-Hau'sen.      The    nom    dc 

plume  of  Robert  Pearce  Gillie.s,  one  of 
the  speakers  in  the  Xoctes  Aihbrosia'jKP. 
( /!/(tc/iHood\i  JLiffaziiie.) 

Kcmpis.  The  authorship  of  the  work 
entitled  J)e  Imitatio'tie  Chrtsti,  has  af- 
forded as  much  controversy  as  the  author 
of  Letters  of  Junius.  In  1604,  a  Spanish 
Jesuit  discovered  a  manuscri])t  copy  by 
the  Abbot  John  Gersen  or  Gesen  ;  and 
since  then  three  comj)etitors  have  had 
angry  and  word}-  defenders,  viz.  Thomas 
a  Kempis,  J.  Charlier  de  Gersou,  Chan- 
callor  of  the  University  of  Paris,  and 
the  Abbot  Gersen.  M.  Malou  gives  his 
verdict  in  favour  of  tlie  first. 

Ken  or  Kiun.  An  Egyptian  goddess 
similar  to  the  Roman  Venus.  She  i.s 
represented  as  standing  on  a  lion,  and 
holding  two  serpents  in  one  hand  and  a 
flower  in  the  other.     {'See  Amos  v.  20.) 

Kendal  Green.  Green  cloth  for 
foresters  ;  so  called  from  Kendal,  West- 
moreland, famous  at  one  time  for  this 
manufacture.  Kendal  green  Avas  the 
livery  of  Robin  Hood  and  liis  followers. 
In  Rymer's  Fudera  (ii.  83)  is  a  letter  of 
protection,  dated  1331,  and  granted  by 
Edward  III.  to  John  Kempe  of  Flanders, 
who  established  cloth-weaving  in  the 
borough.  Lincoln  was  also  famous  at 
one  time  for  dyeing  green. 

'■  How  couUlst  thou  know  these  men  in  Kendil 
green,  when  it  was  so  dark  thou  couldst  not  see 
thy  hand  ?  "—Shakespeare :  1  Henry  1\'.,  ii.  i. 

Kenelm  ('S7.)  was  murdered  at 
Clente-in-Cowbage,  near  Wiuclielcumb, 
in  Gloucestershire.  The  murder,  says 
Roger  of  Wendover,  was  miraculously 
notified  at  Rome  by  a  white  dove, 
which  alighted  on  the  altar  of  St. 
Peter's,  bearing  in  its  b^ak  a  scroll 
with  these  words : 

•■  in  rient  cow  pastnr^'.  under  a  thorn, 
Of  head  hereft,  lies  Kenehn  k;ii','-ljo;n.'' 

Henna.     {See  Kexsingtox.) 

Kenna  Quliair  \^I  Liiow  not  where']. 
Scotch  for  terra  iiieoy'nita. 

Kennc.  A  stone  said  to  be  formed 
in  the  eye  of  a  stag,  and  used  as  au 
antidote  to  poison. 

Kennedy.  A  poker,  or  to  kill  with 
a  poker :  so  called  from  a  man  of  that 
name  who  was  killed  by  a  looker.  {Dic- 
tionary of  Modern  Shiny.) 

Kennel.  A  dog's  house ;  from  the 
Latin  cauis  (a  dog),  liaWnn  canile  ;  but 
kennel  (a  gutter),  from  the  Latin  ca)ina 
(a  cane,  whence  cauTdis),  our  canal, 
channel,  etc. 


Kenno 


600 


Kepler's  Fairy 


Ken'no.  This  was  a  laxga  rich  clieese, 
made  by  the  women  of  the  family 
with  a  great  affectation  of  secrecy,  and 
was  intended  for  tlie  refreshment  of 
the  gossips  wlio  were  in  th'='  house  at 
the  '•  canny  minute  "  of  the  birth  of  a 
chikl.  Called  Ken-no  because  no  one 
was  supposed  to  know  of  its  existenca — 
certainly  no  male  being,  not  excepting 
the  master  of  the  house.  After  all  had 
eaten  their  fill  on  tlie  auspicious  occa- 
sion, the  rest  was  divided  among  the 
gossips  and  taken  home.  The  Kenno  is 
supposed  to  be  a  relic  of  the  secret  rites 
of  the  llona  Deo. 

Ken'singtcn.  O'beron,  king  of  the 
fairies,  held  his  royal  seat  in  these 
gardens,  wliich  were  fenced  round  with 
spells  "interdicted  to  himian  touch;" 
but  not  imfrequently  his  thievish  elves 
would  rob  the  human  mother  of  her  babe, 
and  leave  in  its  stead  a  sickly  changeling 
of  the  elfin  race.  Once  on  a  time  it  so 
fell  out  that  one  of  the  infants  fostered 
in  these  gardens  was  Albion,  the  son  of 
"Albion's  royal  blood:"  it  was  stolen 
by  a  fairy  named  Milkah.  When  the 
boy  was  nineteen,  he  fell  in  love  with 
Kenna,  daughter  of  King  Oberon,  and 
Kejina  vowed  that  none  but  Albion 
should  ever  be  her  chosen  husband. 
Oberon  heard  her  when  she  made  this 
vow,  and  instantly  drove  the  prince  out 
of  the  garden,  and  married  the  fairy 
maid  to  Azu'riel,  a  fairy  of  great  ])eauty 
and  large  possessions,  to  whom  Holland 
I'ark  belonged.  In  the  meantime,  Albion 
prayed  to  Xeptune  for  revenge,  and  the 
sea-god  commanded  the  fairy  Oriel, 
Avhose  dominion  lay  along  the  banks  of 
the  Thames,  to  espouse  the  cause  of  his 
lineal  offspring.  Albion  was  slain  in  the 
battle  by  Azuriel,  and  Xeptune  in  re- 
venge crushed  the  whole  empire  of 
Oberon.  Being  immortal,  the  fairies 
could  not  be  destroyed,  but  they  fled 
from  the  angry  sea-god,  some  to  the 
hills  and  some  to  the  dales,  some  to  the 
caves  and  others  to  river- banks.  Kenna 
alone  remained,  and  tried  to  revive  her 
lover  by  means  of  the  herb  moly.  No 
sooner  did  the  juice  of  this  wondrous 
herb  touch  the  body  than  it  turned  into 
a  snow-drop.  When  Wise  laid  out  the 
grounds  for  the  Prince  of  Orange,  Kenna 
planned  it  "in  a  morning  dream,"  and 
gave  her  name  to  the  town  and  garden. 
{Tickcll :  Kenmujton  Gardens.) 

Kent  (Latin,  Cc/n'thnii),  the  territory 
of  the  Kantii  or  Cantii ;  Old  British, 
Jun/t,  a  comer  or  headland).  In  the 
reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth  Kent  was  so 


notorious  for  highway  robbery,  that  the 
word  signified  a  "  nest  of  thieves." 

"  Some  liookes  are  airogant  anil  imimd"nt  : 
So  are  most  thieves  in  ClirlsteTuVun'"  ami  Kent." 
Tuylor,  the  Water  Poet  (IC::i)). 

A  man  of  Kent.  One  bom  east  of  the 
Medway.  Thes3  men  went  out  with 
gi'een  boughs  to  meet  the  Cojiqueror, 
and  obtained  in  consequence  a  con- 
finnation  of  their  ancient  privileges 
from  the  new  king.  They  call  them- 
selves the  inricti.  The  hops  of  East 
Kent  are  liked  be^t. 

A  Kentish  man.  A  resident  of  West 
Kent. 

Ilohi  j\[ai(l  (if  Kent.  Elizabeth  Barton, 
who  pretended  to  the  gift  of  piophecy 
and  power  of  miracle.s.  Having  de- 
nounced the  doom  and  speedy  death  of 
Henri'  VIII.  for  his  marriage  with 
Anne  Bolevn,  slie  was  executed.  Sir 
Walter  Scott  {Ahhot,  xiii.)  c.ills  her 
"  The  Xun  of  Kent."  [Sec  F.ur  [Maid 
of  Kent]). 

Kent's  Hole.  A  large  cave  in  the 
limestone  rock  near  Torquay,  Devon. 

Kent  Street  Ejectment.  Taking 
away  the  street-door  ;  a  method  devised 
by  the  landlords  of  Kent  Street,  South - 
wark,  when  their  tenants  were  more 
than  a  fortnight  in  aiTears. 

Kentish  Fire.  Rapturous  applause, 
or  three  times  three  and  one  more.  The 
expression  originated  with  Lord  Win- 
chelsea,  who  proposed  the  health  of  the 
Earl  of  Roden,  on  August  I'jth,  18'^4, 
and  added,  "  Let  it  be  given  with  the 
'  Kentish  Fire.'  "  In  proposing  another 
toast  he  asked  permission  to  bring  his 
"Kentish  Artillery"  again  into  action. 
Chambers,  in  his  Fjic>icloxi<r(ha,  fays  it 
arose  from  the  protracted  cheers  given 
in  Kent  to  the  Xo-Popery  orators  in 
18'28-1829. 

Kentish  Moll.  Mary  Carlton,  nick- 
named Tlie  German  Prineesx.  She  was 
transported  to  Jamaica  in  1671  :  but. 
returning  without  leave,  she  was  hanged 
at  Tybuni,  January  '22nd,  1G73. 

Kentishmen's  Tails.    {See  Tails.) 

Kentucky  (U.S.  America),  so  called 
in  1782,  from  its  principal  river.  It  was 
admitted  into  the  union  in  1702.  The 
nickname  of  the  inhabitants  is  Corn- 
craekers.  Indian  Shawnoese  Kentaclcee 
=  "  head  or  long  river." 

Kepler's  Fairy.  The  fairy  which 
guides  the  planets.  Kepler  said  that 
each  planet  was  guided  in  its  elliptical 
orbit  by  a  resident  angel. 


Kepler's   Laws 


roo 


Ke« 


Kepler's  Laws  (Johann  Kepler,  1571- 
1630)  : 

(1)  That  the  planets  describe  ellipses, 
and  that  the  centre  of  the  sun  is  in  one 
of  the  foci. 

(2)  That  every  planet  so  n:o7es  that 
the  line  drawn  frorti  it  to  the  sun  de- 
scribes equal  areas  in  equal  times. 

(3)  That  the  squares  of  the  times  of 
the  planetary  revolutions  are  as  the 
cubes  of  their  meau  distances  from  the 
sun. 

Kerchief  of  Plesaunce.  An  em- 
broidered cloth  presented  by  a  lady  to 
her  knight  to  wear  for  her  pake.  The 
knight  was  bound  to  place  it  in  his  helmet. 

Kerna.  A  kind  of  trumpet  used  by 
Tamerlane,  the  blast  of  which  might  be 
heard  for  miles. 

Kernel  (Anglo-Saxon,  ci/nirl,  a  dimi- 
nutive of  corn  ;  seed  in  general),  whence 
acorn  (the  ac  or  0'</i  corn). 

Kersey.  A  coarse  cloth,  usually 
ribbed,  and  woven  from  long  wool ;  said 
to  be  so  named  from  Kersey,  in  Suffolk, 
where  it  was  originallj'  made. 

Kerseymere.  A  corruption  of  Casi- 
mir.  a  man's  name.  A  twilled  woollen 
cloth  made  in  Abbeville,  Amiens,  Elbouf, 
Louviers,  Rheims,  Sedan,  and  the  West 
of  England.  (French  cashiih;  Spanish 
casiiiiiro  or  casiiiiiras.) 

Ker'zereh  or  Kerzrah.  A  flower 
■whicli  grows  in  Persia.  It  is  said,  if 
anyone  in  June  or  July  inhales  the  hot 
south  wind  which  has  blown  over  this 
flower  he  will  die. 

Keso'ra.  The  female  idol  adored  in 
the  temple  of  Juggernaut.  Its  head 
and  body  are  of  sandal-wood  ;  its  eyes 
two  diamonds,  and  a  third  diamond  is 
suspended  round  its  neck  ;  its  hands  are 
made  entirely  of  small  pearls,  called 
peril's  (i  Voncc  :  its  bracelets  are  of  pearls 
and  rubies,  and  its  robe  is  cloth  of  gold. 

Kestrel.  A  hawk  of  a  base  breed, 
hence  a  worthless  fellow.  Also  used  as 
an  adjective. 

"  Xn  tlmiii-'lit  (if  linnnur  ever  did  assay 
His  liaser  liresr  ;  but  in  his  keifrell  kynd 
A  pleasant  veine  of  srlory  lie  did  find  ..." 
Spenser :  Fiii'rie  Quecne,  tiuok  ii.  canto  iii.  3. 

Ketcb.    {See  Jack  Ketch.) 

Ketch.  A  kind  of  two-masted  vessel. 
Bomb-ketches  were  much  used  in  the 
last  century  wars. 

Ketchup.  A  corruption  of  the  Ja- 
panese Kitjnp,  a  condiment  sometimes 
sold  as  soy,  but  not  equal  to  it. 


Ketmir  or  Katmlr.    The  dog  of  the 

Seven   Sleepers.      Sometimes   called  Al 
Rakim.     {Sale's  Koran,  xviii.  «.) 

Kettle  (.1),  a  watch.  A  tin  kittle  is 
a  silver  watch.  A  red  kittle  is  a  gold 
watch.  "Kettle,"  or  rather  I:iitlr,  in 
slang  language  is  a  corrupt  rendering  of 
the  words  to-ticJc  read  backwards.  (Com- 
pare Anglo-Saxon  cctcl,  a  kettle,  with 
citcl-ian,  to  tickle.) 

Thor's  great  kettle.  The  god  Thor 
wanted  to  brew  some  beer,  but  not 
having  a  vessel  suited  for  the  purpose  in 
Valhalla,  stole  the  kettle  of  the  giant 
Hymer.     {Seanclinavian  mytholor/i/.) 

Kettle  of  Fish.  A  fite-ehampctre 
in  which  salmon  is  the  chief  dish  pro- 
vided. In  these  pic-nics,  a  large  cald- 
ron being  provided,  the  party  select  a 
place  near  a  salmon  river.  Having 
thickened  some  water  with  salt  to  the 
consistency  of  brine,  the  salmon  is  put 
therein  and  boiled  ;  and  when  fit  for 
eating,  the  company  partake  thereof  in 
gipsy  fashion.  Some  think  the  dis- 
comfort of  this  sort  of  pic-nic  gave  rise 
to  the  phrase  "A  pretty  kettle  of  fish." 
(See  Kittle  of  Fish.) 

"Tbe  wlinle  comiianv  pro  to  tlie  watorside  to- 
day  to  oaf  a  kettle  of  llsli."— i'lr  WaUer  Scott :  St. 
llonan's  WtH,  xii. 

Kettledrum.  A  large  social  party, 
originally  applied  to  a  military  party  in 
India,  where  drum -heads  served  for 
tables.  On  Tweedside  it  signifies  a 
"social  part}',"  met  together  to  take  tea 
from  tlie  same  tea-kettle.     {See  Deum, 

HUEEICAXE.) 

Kettledrum,  a  drum  in  the  shape  of  a 
kiddle  or  fi.sh- basket. 

Kettledrummie  (Gabriel.)  A  Cove- 
nanter preacher  in  Sir  Walter  Scott'a 
Old  Mortaliti/. 

Kev'in  (.S7.).  like  St.  Sena'nus  (q.r.), 
retired  to  an  island  where  he  vowed  no 
woman  should  ever  land.  Kathleen 
loved  the  saint,  and  tracked  him  to  his 
retirement,  but  the  saint  hurled  her 
from  a  rock.  Kathleen  died,  but  her 
ghost  rose  smiling  from  the  tide,  and 
never  left  the  place  while  the  saint  lived. 
A  bed  in  the  rock  at  Glendalough 
(W'icklow)  is  shown  as  the  bed  of  St. 
Kev'in.  Thomas  Moore  has  a  poem  on 
this  tradition.     {Irish  Melodies,  iv.) 

Kex,  hemlock.  Tennyson  says  in  T/ie 
Princess,  "  Though  the  rough  kex  break 
the  starred  mosaic,"  though  weeds  break 
the  pavement.  Nothing  breaks  a  pave- 
ment like  the  growth  of  grass  or  lichen 


Key 


701 


Keys 


throucjh  it.      (Welsh,    ccci/s,    hemlock ; 
French,  eigne  ;  Latin,  clcitta.) 

Key.     {See  Kay.) 

Key-cold.  Deadly  colrl,  lifeless.  A 
key,  oil  account  of  its  coldness,  is  still 
sometimes  employed  to  stoj)  bleeding  at 
the  nose. 

"Poor  key-cnlil  fl.^urp  of  a  holy  kinj;  ! 
Palenslies  of  thp  house  of  Lancaster  I 
Thou  bloudlesj  remnant  of  tUat  royal  blnod  ! " 
Slialcexpeiire :  Iticluird  I  If.,  i.  2. 

Key-stone.  The  Kei/stone  State. 
Peunsj'lva'uia ;  so  called  from  its  posi- 
tion and  importance. 

Key  and  the  BiMe  (A).  Employed 
t-1  discover  whether  plaintiff  or  defend- 
ant is  guilty.  The  Bible  is  opened  either 
at  Ruth,  chap,  i.,  or  at  the  ."ilst  Psalm  ; 
and  a  door-key  is  so  placed  inside  the 
Bible,  that  the  handle  projects  beyond 
the  book.  The  Bible,  beinjr  lied  with  a 
jiiece  of  string,  is  then  held  by  the  fourth 
fingers  of  the  accuser  and  defendant, 
who  must  repeat  the  words  touched  by 
the  wards  of  the  key.  It  is  said,  as  the 
■words  are  repeated,  that  the  key  will 
turn  towards  the  guilty  person,  and  the 
Bible  fall  to  the  ground. 

Key  of  a  Cii>lier  or  of  a  romance. 
That  which  explains  the  secret  or  lays  it 
open  {''La  clef  (run  chiffre''''  or  "  Zrt 
clef  (Vun  romance  "). 

Key  of  the  Mediterranean.    The 

fortress  of  Gibraltar ;  so  called  because 
it  commands  the  entrance  thereof. 

Key  of  Russia.  Smolensk,  on  the 
Dnieper. 

Key  of  Spain.  Ciudad  Eodrigo, 
taken  by  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  who 
defeated  the  French  there  in  1812. 

Keys.     {See  St.  Sitha.  ) 

Keys  of  stables  and  cowhouses  have 
not  unfrequently,  even  at  the  present 
day.  a  stone  with  a  hole  through  it  and 
a  piece  of  horn  attached  to  the  handle. 
This  is  a  relic  of  an  ancient  superstition. 
The  hag,  halig,  or  holy  st"oue  was  looked 
upon  as  a  talisman  which  kept  off  the 
fiendish  Mara  or  night-mare ;  and  the 
horn  was  supposed  to  ensure  the  pro- 
tection of  the  god  of  cattle,  called  by  the 
Romans  Pan. 

Key  as  an  emblem.  (Anglo-Saxon,  coeg.') 

St.  Peter  is  always  represented  in 
Christian  art  with  two  keys  in  his  hand  ; 
they  are  consequently  the  insignia  of  the 
Papacy,  and  are  liorne  saltire-wise,  one 
of  gold  and  the  other  of  silver. 

They  are  the  emblems  also  of  St.  Ser- 
va-'tius,  St.  Hippol'ytus,  St.  Genevieve, 


St.  Petronilla,  St.  Osyth,  St.  Martha, 
and  St.  Germa'nus  of  Paris. 

The  Bishop  of  Winchester  bears  two 
keys  and  sword  in  saltire. 

The  bishops  of  St.  Asaph,  Gloucester, 
Exeter,  and  Peterborough  bear  two  keys 
in  saltire. 

'The  Cross  Kegs.  A  public-house  sign; 
the  arms  of  the  Archbishop  of  York. 

The  keg  shall  he  upon  his  shoulder.  He 
shall  have  the  dominion.  The  ancient 
kej's  were  instruments  about  a  yard 
long,  made  of  wood  or  metal.  On  public 
occasions  the  steward  slung  his  key  over 
his  shoulder,  as  our  mace-bearers  carry 
their  mace.  Hence,  to  have  the  key 
upon  one's  shoulder  means  to  be  in 
authority,  to  have  the  keeping  of  some- 
thing. It  is  said  of  Eliakim,  that  God 
would  lay  upon  his  shoulder  the  key 
of  the  house  of  David  (Isa.  xxii.  22')  ; 
and  of  our  Lord  that  "  the  government 
should  be  upon  His  shoulder  "  (Isa.  ix.G). 
The  chamberlain  of  the  court  used  to 
bear  a  kej'  as  his  insignia. 

The  power  of  the  Icegs — i.e.  the  supreme 
authority  vested  in  the  pope  as  successor 
of  St.  Peter.  The  phrase  is  derived 
from  St.  Matt.  xvi.  19.  (Latin,  Potcstas 
clavlum.) 

To  throw  the  Icegs  into  the  pit.  To 
disclaim  a  debt ;  to  refuse  to  pay  the 
debts  of  a  deceased  husband.  This 
refers  to  an  ancient  French  custom.  If 
a  deceased  husband  did  not  leave  his 
widow  enough  for  her  aliment  and  the 
paj'ment  of  his  debts,  the  widow  was  to 
throw  the  bunch  of  house-keys  which 
she  carried  at  her  girdle  into  the  grave, 
and  this  answered  the  purpose  of  a 
public  renunciation  of  nil  further  ties. 
No  one  after  this  could  come  on  her 
for  any  of  her  late  husband's  debts. 

Keys  {The  House  of).  One  of  the 
three  estates  of  the  Isle  of  Man.  The 
Crown  in  council,  the  governor  and  his 
council,  and  the  House  of  Keys,  consti- 
tute what  is  termed  "  the  court  of  Tyn- 
wald."  The  House  of  Keys  consists  of 
twenty-four  representatives  selected  by 
their  own  body,  vacancies  are  filled  up 
by  the  House  presenting  to  the  governor 
"  two  of  the  eldest  and  worthiest  men  of 
the  isle,"  one  of  which  the  governor 
nominates.  To  them  an  appeal  may  be 
made  against  the  verdicts  of  juries,  and 
from  their  decision  there  is  no  appeal, 
except  to  the  Crown  in  council.  (Manx, 
kiare-as-feed,  four-and-twenty.) 

•.■  Tbe  governor  and  liis  connril  consists  of  the 
Bovernor,  the  bislioii,  tlie  attornev-'-reneral,  two 
deemsters  for  jiidKes),  the  clerk  of  the  rolls,  the 
^vater  bailiff,  the  archdeacon,  aud  the  yicar- 
gcueral. 


Keyne 


702 


Kick  Up  a  Ro"w 


The  House  of  Kri/s.  The  board  of 
landed  proprietors  referred  to  above, 
or  the  house  in  which  they  hold  their 
sessions. 

Keyne  (S!.).  The  well  of  St.  Keyne, 
Cornwall,  h.is  a,  strange  superstition 
attached  to  it.  which  is  this:  "If  the 
bridegroom  drinks  therefrom  before  the 
bride,  lie  will  be  master  of  his  house ; 
but  if  the  bride  gets  the  first  draught, 
the  grey  mare  will  be  the  better  horse." 
Southey  has  a  ballad  on  this  tradition, 
and  saj's  the  man  left  his  wife  at  the 
church  jiorch,  and  ran  to  the  well  to  get 
the  first  draught  ;  but  when  he  returned 
his  wife  told  him  liis  labour  had  been 
iri  vain,  for  she  had  taken  with  her  a 
'•  bottle  of  the  water  to  church." 

Khedive  d'Egypte.  An  old  regal 
title  revived  by  the  sultan  in  1867,  who 
granted  it  to  Ismael  I.,  who  succeeded 
as  Pasha  of  Egypt  in  1863.  The  title  is 
higher  than  viceroy,  but  not  so  high  as 
sultan.  (Turkish,  khidir  :  Persian,  kh'i- 
rfi'ir.king;  and /■/;(V7e«/,  viceroy.)  Pro- 
nounce kc-dlve,  in  2  syl. 

Khorassan  {Region  of  the  Sim].  A 
province  of  Persia,  anciently  called 
Aria'na. 

The  Veileil  Prophrt  of  Khornssn».  Mo- 
kanna,  a  prophet  chief,  who,  being  ter- 
ribly deformed,  wore  a  veil  under  pre- 
tence of  shading  the  dazzling  light  of  his 
countenance. 

"TeiTiir  seized  lier  lest  the  lovc-li,trlit  which 
encircled  liiiii  should  fade  away,  an<l  I'ave  bim 
like  the  veiled  prophet  of  Khorassan,  a  siii- 
stained  thing  of  cki.v."— ioi/i/  Uardy :  A  Casual 
AC'jaainta}ice. 

Ki.  A  Chinese  word,  signifying  age 
or  period,  generally  apj)lied  to  the  ten 
periods  preceding  the  first  Imperial 
dynasty,  founded  B.C.  220-5.  It  extended 
over  some  300,000  j-ears.  The  first  was 
founded  by  Puon-ku  (highest  eternity), 
and  the  last  by  Fo-hi,  sumamed  2'ien- 
Tse  (son  of  heaven). 

Kiak-Kiak  {r/od  of  r/ods) .  An  idol 
worshi)))ied  in  Pegu.  This  god  is  to 
sleep  6,000  years,  and  when  he  wakes 
the  end  of  the  world  will  come. 

Kick  (.1).  Sixpence.  ''Two-aud-a- 
kick  "  —  two  shillings  and  sixpence. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  cice/,  a  bit.  In  Jamaica 
a  ''bit"  =  sixpence,  and  generally  it 
means  the  smallest  silver  coin  in  circu- 
lation ;  thus,  in  America,  a  "bit"  is 
f ourpence.  We  speak  of  a  "  threepenny 
bit.") 

^'  It  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick  ar/ninst  the 
/))7cA:5  "  (Acts  ix.  5 ;  and  xxvi.  14.)  The 
proverb  occurs  in   Pindar   (2  Fijthinn 


Victories,  v.  173),  in  iEschylos  (Affani- 
eiii)io>i,  1,624),  in  Eurip'ides  (Bacchfr, 
791),  in  Terence  {Fhoruiio,  i.  ii.  27), 
in  Ovid  {Tristia,  book  ii.  15),  etc.; 
but  whether  the  reference  is  to  an  ox 
kicking  when  goaded,  or  a  horse  when 
pricked  with  the  rowels  of  a  spur,  is  not 
certain.  The  plural  keiitra  seems  to  refer 
to  more  than  one,  and  pros  keiitra  can- 
not refer  to  a  repetition  of  goad  thrusts. 
Altogether,  the  rowels  of  a  sjiur  suit  the 
phrase  better  than  the  single  jioiut  of 
an  ox-goad. 

N.B.  The  Greek  pros  with  an  accus- 
ative is  not  =  the  Latin  adrerstix,  such  a 
meaning  would  require  a  genitive  case  ; 
it  moans  in  answer  to,  i.e.  to  kick  when 
sinirred  or  goaded. 

J\[(ire  kicks  than  hu' petne.  More  abu'^c 
than  jirofit.  Called  "monkey's  allow- 
ance "  in  allusion  to  monkeys  led  ab^ut 
to  collect  ha'pence  by  exhibiting  'their 
parts."  The  poor  brutes  get  the  kicks  if 
they  do  their  jiarts  in  an  unsatisfaclory 
majmer,  but  the  master  gets  the  ha'pence 
collected. 

(inite  the  kick.  Quito  a  dandy.  T'  > 
Italians  call  a  dandy  a  chic.  The  French 
chic  means  knack,  as  avoir  Ic  chic,  to 
have  the  knack  of  doing  a  thing  smartly. 

"  I  cocked  my  hat  and  twirled  my  st'c'c. 
Ami  the  .girls  they  called  me  iinitc  Ihe  kick." 
f/rj/yc  Ciihiiitu  the  yo(ni,'ci: 

Kick  Over  the  Traces  (To).  Not  to 
follow  the  dicta  of  a  party  leader,  but  to 
act  independentlj' ;  as  a  horse  refusing 
to  run  in  harness  kicks  over  the  traces. 

"If  the  new  memher  shows  anj-  inclination  t» 
kick  over  the  traces,  he  will  not  lie  their  mcniher 
long."— Newspaper  laragraph,  Feb.,  isw. 

Kick  the  Beam  (To).  To  be  of 
light  weight ;  to  bo  of  inferior  conse- 
quence. When  one  jian  of  a  pair  of 
scales  is  lighter  than  the  other,  it  liies 
upwards  and  is  said  to  "kick  the  beam" 
[of  the  scales]. 

"The  evil  has  eclipseil  the  Rood,  and  the?  ale. 
which  before  resteil  solidly  on  the  (jround,  now 
kicks  the  h!.^xni."—Glii(lstonc. 

Kick  tho  Bucket  (71/).  A  bucket 
is  a  pulley,  and  in  Norfolk  a  beam. 
When  pigs  are  killed,  they  are  hung  I'V 
their  hind-legs  on  a  bucket  or  beam,  with 
their  heads  downwards,  and  oxen  are 
hauled  up  by  a  pidley.  To  kick  the 
bucket  is  to  be  himg  on  the  balk  or  bucket 
by  the  heels. 

Kick  Up  a  Row  (To).  To  create  a 
disturbance.  "A  pretty  kick  up"  is  a 
great  disturbance.  The  phr.ase  "  To 
kick  up  the  dust "  explains  the  other 
phrases. 


Kickshaws 


703 


Killed  by  Inches 


Kickshaws.  Made  dishes,  odds  and 
ends,  formerly  written  "  kickshose." 
(French,  quclque  chose.) 

Kicksy-wicksy.  A  liorse  that  kicks 
and  winces  in  impatience  ;  figuratively, 
a  wife  ((/ret/  marc).  Taylor,  the  water 
poet,  calls  iit  kicksic-wiii.sic,  but  Shake- 
speare spells  it  kickij-tvicln/. 

'■  He  wears  liis  lionour  in  a  lii>>:  luisccii 
That  liiiu'S  liis  kic-kv-wii-kv  Imm-c  at  li.iire, 
S'i"n4  ir-'  Ills  iiia'ilv  \i;ariiAv  in  liei-  anus. 
Wliirh    shiiuld   sustain    llio    Ixiiiiid   ami    liigb 

r'lrvet. 
Of  Mars'i  fi  -rv  steeil." 

All's  Well  tliiit  Endu  Wdl.  ii. :!  (Gln!ip  cA^. 

Kid  (./).  A  faggot  or  bundle  of  fire- 
•wood.  To  I:i(l  is  to  bind  up  faggots.  In 
the  parish  register  of  Kneelsal  church 
there  is  <he  following  item:  "Leading 
kids  to  church,  2s.  Gd.,"  that  is,  cart- 
ing faggots  to  church.  (Welsh,  cUli/s, 
faggots.) 

Kid  {A).  A  young  child.  A  face- 
tious formation  from  t\\e  Anglo-Saxon 
r/[/]  /,  a  child.  The  /  is  often  silent,  as 
in  calm,  haJf,  golf,  etc.  At  one  time 
faidt  was  prononnced  /"rt/r /. 

'  "'Aro  tlieso  yiiir  own  kids?'  I  inriuirel  jire- 
R^ntlv.  '  Vps,  tw  1  of  tlieni:  T  have  six.  you 
kniw.' "—?/■.  .1.  L'ccrs  :  Century  Maguziiie,  June, 
l.-ts.-),  1-.  ;si\ 

K-ldderminstsr  Poetry.  Coarse  dog- 
gerel verse. like  the  coarse  woollen  manu- 
facture of  Kidderminster.  The  term  was 
first  used  by  Shcustone,  who  ajiplied  it 
to  a  Mr.  C,  of  Kidderminster. 
"  Tlvv  verses  friend.  a''e  K-dderniinster  stnff  t 
Anil  I  must  own  .vou've  measured  out  cnou;;h." 

Kidnapper  (A).  One  wdio  nabs  or 
steals  "  kids  "  or  young  children. 

"Swnni's  of  kidnaii- ers  were  liiisy  in  everv 
iiortliern  town,"—''.  Tl.  Mi-Mastcr:  People  of  the 
Vx'.ti- 1  States,  vol.  ii.  cliap.  x.  p.  ,T>7. 

Kidney.  Men  of  another  Mdnei/  or  of 
the  same  kirhirti.  The  reins  or  kidnct/s 
were  even  by  tlie  Jews  supposed  to  be 
the  seat  of  the  affections. 

Kilda  {St.).  The  farthest  of  the 
western  isles  of  Scotland. 

Kilda'rc  (2  svl.)  is  the  Irish  Kill 
(lara,  church  of  the  oaks. 

Kildare's  Holy  Fane.  Famous  for 
the  "  Fire  fif  St.  Bridget,"  which  was 
in'^xtingui.shable,  because  the  nuns  never 
allowed  it  to  go  out.  Every  twentieth 
night  St.  Bridget  returned  to  tend  the 
fire.  Part  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Bridget 
still  remains,  and  is  called  "The  Fire- 
house." 

"  Apud  Kildariam  occurrit  iprnis  Binctw  Briirida; 
que:ii  inexMncruebilem  vocaut."— Gi'raMus  Cii»t- 
brcnsis  :  Hlbcrnia,  ii.  %i. 

Kilken'ny  is  the  Gaelic  Kill  Kcnnij, 
church  of  St.  Kenny  or  Cau'ice, 


Kilkenny  Cats.     {See  Cat.) 

Kill  (-/).  The  slaying  of  some  ani- 
mal, generally  a  bullock,  tied  up  by 
hunters  in  a  jungle,  to  allure  to  the  sjiot 
and  attract  the  attention  of  some  wild 
beast  (such  as  a  lion,  ti.ger,  or  panther) 
preparatory  to  a  hunting  party  being 
arranged.  As  a  tiger-kill,  a  jjanther- 
kill. 

"A  sliikarie  liroutjlit  us  tlio  welcome  tidiiitrs  of 
a  tiK"r-kill  only  a  niile  and  a  balf  fnnii  tlie  caiii|i. 
Tbe  next  ilay  there  was  no  hunt,  as  llie  ground 
round  tlie  ivantlier-kill  was  too  uiifavonraiile  to 
permit  of  any  hunting."— Xmefecdf'i  Cenlari/, 
August,  18SG. 

Kill  Two  Birds  with  One   Stone 

(To).  To  effect  some  subsidiary  work 
at  the  same  time  as  the  main  object  is 
being  effected. 

Killed  by  Inches.  In  allusion  to 
divers  ways  of  prolonging  cajjital  jjunish- 
ments  in  olden  times  ;  e.a.  :  (1)  The 
"iron  coffin  of  Lissa."  The  prisoner 
was  laid  in  the  coffin,  and  saw  the  iron 
lid  creep  slowly  down  with  almost  im- 
perceptible movement — slowly,  silently, 
but  surely  ;  on,  on  it  came  with  relent- 
less march,  till,  after  lingering  days  and 
nights  in  suspense,  the  prisoner  was  at 
last  as  slowly  crushed  by  the  iron  lid 
pressing  on  him.  (2)  The  "  baiser  de  la 
Vierge "  of  Baden-Baden.  The  pri- 
soner, blindfolded  and  fastened  to  a 
chain,  was  lowered  by  a  wnndlass  down 
a  deep  shaft  from  the  top  of  the  castl"? 
into  the  verv  heart  of  the  rock  on  which 
it  stands.  Here  he  remained  till  he  vi"as 
conducted  to  the  torture-chamber,  and 
commanded  "  to  kiss"  the  brazen  statue 
of  the  "  Virgin  "  which  stood  at  the  end 
of  a  passage  ;  but  immediately  he  raised 
his  lips  to  give  the  kiss,  down  he  feU 
through  a  trap-door  on  a  wheel  with 
s])ikes,  which  was  set  in  motion  by  tin 
fall.  (3)  The  "  iron  cage-;  of  Louis  XT." 
were  so  contrived  that  the  victims  might 
linger  out  for  years  ;  but  whether  they 
sat,  stood,  or  lay  down,  the  position  was 
equally  uncomfortable.  (4)  The  "cham- 
bre  a  crucer  "  was  a  heavy  chest,  short, 
shallow,  and  lined  with  sharp  stones,  in 
which  the  sufferer  was  packed  and  buried 
alive,  (o)  The  "  bernicles "  consisted 
of  a  mattress  on  which  the  victim  was 
fastened  by  the  neck,  while  his  legs 
were  crushed  between  two  logs  of  wood, 
on  the  uppermost  of  which  the  torturer 
took  his  seat.  This  process  continued 
for  several  days,  till  the  sufferer  died 
with  the  lingering  torment.  Many  other 
modes  of  stretching  out  the  torment  of 
death  might  easily  be  added.  {Sec  Ieon 
Maiden.) 


Kjlled  by   Kindness         704 


King  Estmere 


Killed  by  Kindness.  It  is  said  that 
Draco,  the  Athenian  legislator,  met  with 
his  death  from  his  popularit}',  being 
smothered  in  the  tlieatre  of  ^gi'na  by 
the  number  of  caps  and  cloaks  showered 
on  him  by  the  spectators  (b.c.  590). 

Killing.  Irresistible,  overi)owering, 
fascinating,  or  bewitching;  so  as  to 
compel  admiration  and  notice. 

"  Those  e.ves  were  niarle  so  killing."' 

Pope :  Rape  of  the  Loch;  v.  &4. 

A  kiUbig  pace.  Too  hot  or  strong  to 
last ;  exceptionally  great ;  exhausting. 

Killing-stone,  in  Loufh.  A  stone 
probably  used  for  human  sacrifice. 

Killing  no  Murder.  A  tract  writ- 
ten hy  8c'xby,  who  was  living  in  Hol- 
land at  the  time  of  its  publication. 
Probably  Sexby  was  paid  for  fathering  it, 
and  the  real  author  was  William  Allan. 

Kilmansagg  (Miss).  An  heiress  of 
great  expec+utions  with  an  artificial  leg 
of  solid  gold.  {TJwmas Hood :  A  Golden 
Legend.) 

Kilmarnock  Cowls.  Xightcaps.  The 
Kilmarnock  nightcaps  were  once  cele- 
brated all  over  Scotland. 

Kilmarth  Rocks  (Scotland).  A  pile 
of  stones  towering  28  feet  in  height, 
and  overhanging  more  than  12  feet,  like 
the  tower  of  Pisa  (Italy).     [See  Cheese- 

WEIXG.) 

Kilwinning,  in  the  county  of  Ajt, 
Scotland,  the  scene  of  the  renowned 
tournament  held  in  1839  by  the  Earl  of 
Eglinton.  It  was  also  the  cradle  of 
Freemasonry  in  Scotland. 

Kin,  Kind. 

'■  Khic).  Bnt  now,  my  cousin  Hamlet,  and  my  son— 
llam.  A  little  more  tlian  kin.  and  less  tlian'  kind." 
Shakespeare  :  Hamlet,  i.  2. 

Kilt  or  kinsman  is  a  relative  by  mar- 
riage or  blood  more  distant  than 'father 
and  son. 

Kind  means  of  the  same  sort  of  genus, 
as  man -kind  or  man -genus. 

Hamlet  says  he  is  more  than  /.-in  to 
Claudius  (as  he  was  step-son),  but  still 
he  is  not  of  the  same  kind,  the  same 
class.  He  is  not  a  bird  of  the  same 
feather  as  the  king. 

Kindbart.  A  jocular  name  for  a 
tooth-drawer ;  so  called  from  a  dentist 
of  the  nnme  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Eliza- 
beth. Kindhart,  the  dentist,  is  men- 
tioned by  Rowland  in  his  Letting  of 
Jfiniwitrs  -  Blood  in  the  Head-mine. 
(1600) ;  and  in  Rowley's  Kew  Wonder, 


"Mistake  mo  not,  Kindliarr,  .  . 
Bo  calls  you  tootli-aiawer." 


Act  i.I. 


King.  The  Anglo-Saxon  cyng,  egn- 
ing,  from  egii  a  nation  or  people,  and 
the  termination — ing,  meaning  '"of,"  as 
'•son  of,"  "chief  of,"  etc.  In  Anglo- 
Saxon  times  the  king  was  elected  on 
the  "VVi'tena-gemut,  and  was  therefore 
the  choice  of  the  nation. 

V  The  factorg  king.  Richard  Oastler, 
of  Bradford,  the  successful  advocate  of 
the  ''  Ten  Hours'  Bill  "   (1789-1861). 

Be  Galantuiinw  (the  gallant  king),  Vic- 
tor Emmanuel  of  Italy  (1820-1878). 

King. 

A  king  should  die  standing.  So  said 
Louis  XVIII.  of  France,  in  imitation  of 
Vespasian,  Emperor  of  Rome.  {See 
Dtino  Sayings  :   L^oids  X  Till.) 

Like  a  king.  When  Porus,  the  Indian 
prince,  was  taken  prisoner,  Alexander 
asked  him  how  he  expected  to  be  treated. 
"Like  a  king,"  he  replied;  and  Alex- 
ander made  him  his  friend. 

Piag  aid  of  the  king.  W^hen  some- 
one, under  the  belief  that  he  has  a  right 
to  the  land,  claims  rent  of  the  king's 
tenants,  they  appeal  to  the  sovereign,  or 
"  praj-  aid  of  the  king." 

King  Ban.  Father  of  Sir  Launcelot 
du  Lao.  He  died  of  grief  when  his 
castle  was  taken  and  burnt  through  the 
treachery  of  his  seneschal.  {Launcelot 
dn  Lae,  1494.) 

King  Cash,  what  the  Americans  call 
the  '•  Almightj-  Dollar." 

"  Xuw  hirtli  and  rank  and  hreedinpr, 

Hardly  saved  fn'ni  utter  smash. 

Have  heiMi  ousted,  rather  ruuprhlv, 

By  the  unslaiiL'ht  of  Kins  Cash." 

Truth  (.Chiistmas  Xumber,  \8M,  p.  19.) 

King  Cole.     {See  Cole.) 

King  Cotton.  Cotton,  the  staple  of 
the  Southern  States  of  America,  and  the 
chief  ai'ticle  of  manufacture  in  England. 
The  expression  was  first  used  by  James 
H.  Hammond  in  the  Senate  of  the 
L'nited  States,  in  1858.  The  great  cot- 
ton manufacturers  are  called  "  cotton 
lords." 

King  Estmere  (2  syl.)  of  England 
was  induced  by  his  brother  Adler  to  go 
to  King  Adland,  and  request  permission 
to  pay  suit  to  his  daughter.  King  Ad- 
land replied  that  Bremor,  King  of  Spain, 
had  already  proposed  to  her  and  been 
rejected  ;  but  when  the  lady  was  intro- 
duced to  the  English  king  she  accepted 
him.  King  Estmere  and  his  brother  re- 
turned home  to  prepare  for  the  wedding, 
but  had  not  proceeded  a  mile  when  the 
king  of  Spain  returned  to  press  his  suit, 
and  threatened  vengeance  if  it  were  not 


King  Franconi 


705 


King  of  Misrule 


accepted.  A  page  was  instantly  de- 
spatched to  inform  King  Estmere,  and 
request  him  to  return.  The  two  brothers 
in  the  guise  of  harpers  rode  into  the  hall 
of  King  Adland,  when  Bremor  rebuked 
them,  and  bade  them  leave  their  steeds 
in  the  stable.  A  quarrel  ensued,  in 
Avhich  Adler  slew  "  the  sowdan,"  and 
the  two  brothers  put  the  retainers  to 
flight,  {rcrcifs  Ecliques,  etc.,  series  i. 
bk.  i.  6.) 

King  Franco'ni.  Joachim  Mui-at; 
so  called  because  ho  was  o7ice  a  mounte- 
bank like  Franconi.     (1707-1815.) 

King  Horn  or  Chihle  Horn.  The 
hero  of  a  metrical  romance  by  Mestre 
Tlidinas. 

King  Log.  A  roi  faineant,  a  king 
that  ruks  in  peace  and  quietness,  but 
never  makes  his  power  felt.  The  allu- 
sion is  to  the  fable  of  Tlie  Frogs  desiring 
a  Kinrj.     (Sec  Loo.) 

King-maker.  Hichard  Neville,  Earl 
of  Warwick  ;  so  called  because,  when  he 
sided  with  Henry  VI.,  Henry  was 
king  ;  but  when  he  sided  with  Edward 
IV.,  Henry  was  de250sed  and  Edward 
was  king.  He  was  killed  at  the  battle 
ofBaruet.     (1420-1171.) 

King  Mob.     The  "  i'jiiobile  rn/i/ns.''^ 

King  Petaud.  T/ie  court  of  Khifj 
Tl-'aud.  A  kind  of  Alsatia,  where  all 
are  talkers  with  no  hearers,  all  are 
kings  with  no  subjects,  all  are  masters 
and  none  servants.  There  was  once  a 
soc'iety  of  beggars  in  France,  the  chief 
of  whom  called  liimself  King  Petaud. 
(Latin,  peto,  to  beg.) 

King  Ryence,  of  North  Wales,  sent 
a  dwarf  to  King  Arthur  to  say  "he  had 
ov(>rccme  eleven  kings,  all  of  which  paid 
him  homage  in  this  sort — viz.  they  gave 
liim  tlieir  beards  to  purfcll  his  mantle. 
He  now  required  King  Ai'thur  to  do 
likewise."  King  Ai-thur  returaed  an- 
swer, "  My  beard  is  full  young  yet  for 
a  purfell,  but  before  it  is  long  enough 
for  such  a  purpose,  King  Eyence  shall 
do  me  homage  on  both  his  knees."  (See 
Perctfs  Reliques,  etc.,  series  iii.  book  1.) 

Spenser  says  that  Lady  Bria'na  loved 
a  knight  named  Crudor,  who  refused  to 
marry  her  till  she  sent  him  a  mantle 
lined  with  the  beards  of  knights  and 
locks  of  ladies.  To  accomi^lish  this,  she 
appointed  Mal'effort,  her  seneschal,  to 
divest  every  lady  that  drew  near  the 
castle  of  her  locks,  and  every  knight  of 
his  beard.  {Faerie  Qtteene,  book  vi. 
canto  1.) 

45 


King  Stork.  A  tyrant  that  devours 
his  subjects,  and  makes  them  submissive 
with  fear  and  trembling.  The  allusion 
is  to  the  fable  of  The  Frogs  desiring 
a  King.     (See  Log.) 

King-of-Arnis.  An  officer  whose 
duty  it  is  to  direct  the  heralds,  preside 
at  chapters,  and  have  the  jmisdiction  of 
armoury.  There  are  three  kings-of- 
arms  in  England — viz.  Garter,  CUiren- 
cieux.  and  Norroy ;  one  in  Scotland — 
viz.  Lyon;  and  one  in  Ireland,  called 
Ulster. 

Bath  King-of-Ar>ns  is  no  member  of 
the  college,  but  takes  preccdeiice  next 
after  Garter.  The  office  was  created  in 
1725  for  the  service  of  the  Order  of  the 
Bath.     (See  Heealds.) 

King  of  Bark.  Christo2Jher  III.  of 
Scandinavia,  who,  in  a  time  of  great 
scarcity,  had  the  bark  of  birchwood 
mixed  with  meal  for  food.  (Fifteenth 
century.) 

King  of  Bath.  Richard  Nash,  gene- 
rally called  Beau  Nash,  who  was  leader 
of  fashion  and  master  of  the  ceremonies 
at  that  city  for  some  fifty-six  years.  He 
was  ultimately  ruined  by  gambling. 
(1674-1761.) 

King  of  Beasts.    The  lion. 

King  of  Dalkey.  A  burlesque 
officer,  like  the  Mayor  of  Garratt,  the 
Mayor  of  the  Pig  Market,  and  the 
Mayor  of  the  Bull-ring  (q.r.). 

V  Dalkey  is  a  email  island  in  St. 
George's  Channel,  near  the  coast  of 
Ireland,  a  little  to  the  south  of  Dublin 
Bay. 

King  of  Khorassan.  So  Anva'ri, 
the  Persian  poet  of  tlie  twelfth  century, 
is  called. 

King  of  Metals.  Gold,  which  is  not 
only  the  must  valuable  of  metals,  but 
also  is  without  its  peer  in  freedom  from 
alloy.  It  is  got  without  smelting ; 
wherever  it  exists  it  is  visible  to  the  eye  ; 
and  it  consorts  with  little  else  than  pure 
silver.  Even  with  tliis  precious  alloy, 
the  pure  metal  ranges  from  sixty  to 
ninety-nine  per  cent. 

King  of  Misrule.  Sometimes  called 
LoED,  and  sometimes  Abbot,  etc.  At 
Oxford  and  Cambridge  one  of  the 
IMasters  of  Arts  superintended  both  the 
Christmas  and  Candlemas  sports,  for 
which  he  was  allowed  a  fee  of  40s. 
These  diversions  continued  till  the 
Refoi-mation.  Polydore  Vergil  says  of 
the  feast  of  Misrule  that  it  was  "  derived 
from  the  Roman  Satm'ualia,"  held  in 


King  of  Painters 


ro6 


King's  Cave 


December  for  five  days  (17th  to  22nd). 
The  Feast  of  Misrule  lasted  twelve  days. 

•  •'  If  we  omii>.ire  our  B;iccban;ilian  ChristniasfS 
and  Now  Year-tide.-;  with  tlicse  Saturnalia  and 
Feast.-'  of  .hums,  we  sliall  fliide  sucli  ucaratliiiitve 
between  tlieiu  Imth  m  rcu-ard  of  time  .  .  .  aii<l  in 
their  luaiiiieri'f  soleiiiiiisiiig  .  .  .  that  woe  must 
needs  couiiude  the  one  tu  bo  the  very  ape  or 
issue   of   the   other." —i'n/n»c;   IJtstno-.Mostix. 

King  of  Painters.  A  title  assumed 
by  Parrhas'ios,  the  painter,  a  contem- 
porary of  Zeuxis.  riutarch  says  lie 
■wore  a  ]uirple  rolie  aud  a  golden  crown. 
(Flourished  400  B.C.) 

King  of  Preachers.    Louis  Bour- 

daloiio,  a  rreuch  clergyman  (1032-170-1). 

King  of  Rome.  A  title  conferred  by 
Xaimleon  I.  on  his  son  on  the  day  of  his 
birtli.  More  oenoridlv  called  tlio  Duke 
of  Keichstadt  0811-1S:;2\ 

King  of  Shreds  and  Patches.     In 

the  old  mysteries  Vice  used  to  be  dressed 
as  a  miuii'c  king  in  a  parti-coloured  suit. 
{Sha/:i\^pairf  :  Hdinlct,  iii.  4  )  Tlie 
plirase  is  metapliorically  applied  to  cer- 
tain literary  ox)oratiYe3  who  compile 
books  for  publishers,  but  supply  no 
originality  of  tliought  or  matter. 

King  of  Spain's  Trumpeter  ( The). 
A  donkey.  A  pu'.i  ou  the  word  don,  a 
ISpanisli  nuiguate. 

King  of  Terrors.     Death. 

King  of  Waters.     The  river  Am'- 

azon,  iu  Smitli  America. 

King  of  Yvetot  (pron.  F.r-to).  A 
man  of  mighty  pretensions  but  small 
merits.  Yvetot  is  near  Kouen,  and  was 
once  a  seigneurie,  the  possessors  of  wliidi 
■were  entitled  kings— a  title  given  them 
in  ')34  by  Clotaire  I.,  and  "continued  far 
into  the  fourteenth  century. 

"  II  etait  un  roi  d'Yvotot, 

Peu  ooiiuu  daus  I'histoire-; 
Se  levant  tanl,  se  couoliant  tot. 

Oorniant  fort  l'i"ii  sans  f,'h)ire  ; 
Kt  oouroniio  parJoannoton 
D'un  simple  lionuet  de  ootton. 

Hit  on  : 
Oh  :  oh  !  oh  I  oh  !  Ah  '.  ah  :  ah  :  ah  • 
Vnol  lion  iiolite  roi  c'etait  ;  la  :  la  :  la  :  " 

\  kinp  there  was,  '  roi  d"Yvctot '  clopt, 

Knt  little  known  in  Btor.v, 
"Went  Boon  to  hed,  till  da.vlipht  slept, 

And  sounilly  without  glory  ; 
His  royal  brow  in  cotton  cap 
Would  .Tanet.  when  lie  took  liis  nap, 

Enwrap. 
Oh  :  oh  :  oh  :  nh  ;  .\li !  ah  :  ah  !  ah  ! 
.\  famous  kin?  he!  La  !  la  !  la  !    E.  C.  Ji. 

King  of  the  Bean  {roi  dc  In  fcr(). 
The  Twelfth-night  king  ;  so  called  be- 
cause lie  wa.s  cliosen  by  distributing 
slices  of  Twelftli-cako  to  tlie  chiklren 
present,  and  the  child  wlio  liad  the  slice 
with  the  bean  in  it  was  king  of  the 
company  for  the  night.    Tliis  sport  was 


indulged  in  till  the  Reformation,  even 
at  the  two  universities. 

King  of  the  Beggars  or  Oipaies. 
Bamfvlde  Moore  Carew,  a  noted  En- 
glish vagabond  (1093-1770). 

King  of  the  Forest.  Tlie  oak, 
which  not  only  braves  tlie  storm,  but 
fosters  the  growth  of  tender  parasites 
under  its  arms. 

King  of  the  Herrings  (7//^).     The 

Chiiiiura,  or  sea-ape,  a  cartilaginous  fith 
which  accompanies  a  !-lu>al  of  herrings 
in  tlu'ir  miorations. 

King  of  the  Jungle  ( Tin) .    A  tiger. 

King  of  the  Peak  ( The).  Sir  George 
Vernon. 

King  of  the  Sea  {Tht).  Thelierring. 

"Tho  boail  of  an  avorai-'O-sizod  whale  is  from 
lirtoi'U  to  siNtoon  foot  [about  oni'-lhird  the 
lenirtbl,  and  the  lips  open  smuo  si.\  oroi,i,-lit  feet  ; 
yet  111  sui-b  a  mouth  Ihoro  is  soarooly  any  throat, 
not  sullK-ioiitlv  lartre  to  allow. a  liorrin:,'  to  pass 
down  it.  This  little  soaly  follow  [the  horringj, 
some  fourteen  inolios  in  len;.-th,  would  dioke  ii 
monster  whale,  and  is  henro  oallod  '  the  kiiij,-  of 
the  sea."^'— f.  Tliomncn :  Aiit.'tHi\  laiihii,  p.  i:i2. 

King  of  tho  Teign.  Daldrick  of 
South  Devon,  son  of  Eri,  who  long  de- 
fended his  teiTitory  against  Algtir,  a 
lawless  chief. 

King  of  the  World  {Shah-Jchnn). 
The  title  a'isiuiud  by  Khortiim  Slitih, 
third  son  of  Selini  .Tihan-Ghir,  and  fifth 
of  the  Mogul  emperors  of  Dellii. 

King  of  the  World.  So  the  Cale- 
donians, in  Gssian's  time,  called  tho 
Roman  emperor. 

King  Chosen  by  tho  Neighing  of 
a  Horse  (./).  Darius.  {Sic  IIuksk  : 
^/  linnic  tiin.^  (I  /iiiii/ddiii.) 

King  Over  the  Water  {Thr).    The 

Young  Pretender,  or  Chevalier  Charles 
Edward. 

".My  father  so  far  oonipromisod  his  loyalty  iis 
to  announoe  merely  'The  kiuLr.'as  his  flrsi  loast 
after  dinuor,  instoail  of  the  emphnlio  '  Kintr 
(Jeor^ie.'  .  .  .  Our  iruost  made  a  motion  with  his 
class,  so  as  to  pass  it  over  tho  w.-iier-deoanler 
whioli  stood  beside  liini,  and  added,  'Over  the 
water.'  "—!<ir  W.  Scott :  licilganiittct,  letter  v. 

King's  [or  Qiicni'x]  Bench.  This 
was  originally  the  A"//'  Iifi/in,  which 
followed  the  king  in  all  liis  travels,  and 
in  which  lie  occupied  the  /it  dr  justice. 
In  the  absence  of  the  so^v-ereign  the 
judges  were  supreme.  Of  course  there 
is  no  lit  dc  justice  or  bench  for  the 
sovereign  in  any  of  our  law  courts  now. 

King's  Cave.  Opposite  to  Camp- 
belton ;  so  called  because  it  was  here 
that  King  Robert  Bruce  and  his  retinue 


King's  Chair 


707 


Kings 


lodpjecl  when  they  landed  on  the  main- 
land from  the  Islo  of  Arran.  {Statistical 
AcroKiit  of  i>col/aii(f,  v.  p.  1G7,  article 
"Airaa.") 

King'3  Cbair.  A  seat  made  hy  two 
bearers  with  their  liauds.  On  Candle- 
mas Day  the  children  of  Scotland  used 
to  bring  their  schoolmaster  a  ])resfnt 
in  mouc>j-,  and  tlie  boy  who  brouj^lit  the 
larj^cst  s\im  was  king  for  the  nonce. 
When  schof)l  was  dismissed,  the  "  king" 
was  carried  on  a  seat  of  hands  in  pro- 
cession, and  the  seat  was  called  the 
"  king's  cliair." 

King's  Crag.  Fife,  in  Scotland. 
Called  "king"  becau.se  Alexander  III. 
of  Scotland  was  killed  there. 

"As  he  was  ridiiii,'  in  tlie  dns';  nf  I'lo  evi'icii!,' 
al(>n«  the  sisj-coast  of  Kife,  hetwixt  Biiriit-i.<l:iiiil 
anil  Kinit-lKini,  he  :iiu>r.>achfJ  tuo  near  tlie  Inink 
of  the  iiiecipici-,  and  his  linrse.  slartini;  or  stnin- 
lilini,',  he  was  thrown  over  tlie  imk    ami    killed 

on  the  spot.  .  .  The  i \>],-   of   the  coinui-y   still 

point  out  the  very  ejiot  where  it  happoiied,  and 
which  is  called 'The  Kind's  I'rai,'.' "— ■S'i)'  ll«/(cr 
Scutt ;  Talen  of  a  (I  laud/ather,  vi. 

King's  Cross.  Up  to  the  accession 
of  George  IV.  this  locality  in  London 
was  called  "  Battle  Bridge,"  and  had  an 
infamous  notoriety.  In  1S2I  some  specu- 
lators built  there  a  number  of  houses, 
and,  at  tlie  suggestion  of  Mr.  Bra}-, 
changed  the  name. 

King'3  Evil.  Scrofula  :  so  called 
from  a  noti  m  which  ])revailed  from  the 
reign  of  El  ward  the  Confessor  to  that 
of  Queen  Anne  that  it  could  be  cured  l)y 
the  roval  touch.  The  Jacobites  con- 
sidered that  the  power  did  not  descend 
to  William  III.  and  Anno  because  the 
"  divinj  "  hereditary  right  was  not  fully 
pos.sessed  bv  them,  Imt  the  oflice  re- 
mained in  our  Piayer-Book  till  1719. 
Prince  Charles  Edward,  when  he  claimed 
to  be  Prince  of  Wales,  touched  a  female 
child  for  the  disease  in  174.5:  but  the 
last  person  touched  in  England  was  Dr. 
Johnson,  in  1712,  whenonly  thirtymonths 
old,  bj-  Queen  Anne.  The  French  kings 
laid  claim  to  the  same  divine  power  even 
from  the  time  of  Aijne  of  Clovis,  a.d.  4S1 , 
and  on  Easter  Sunday,  1686.  Louis  XIV. 
touched  1 ,600  persons,  using  these  words : 
' '  Le  roij  te  louche,  I)icit  te  //iicrissc. ' '  The 
practice  was  introduced  bj'  Henri- VII. 
of  presenting  the  person  "touched"  with 
a  small  gold  or  silver  coin,  called  a  touch- 
piece.  The  one  presented  to  Dr.  Johnson 
has  St.  George  and  the  Dragon  on  one 
side  and  a  ship  on  the  other  ;  the  legend 
of  the  former  is  Soli  deo  qloria,  and  of 
the  latter  Anna  D.G.M.BE.F.ET.H. 
KEG.  (Anne,  bv  t^-  Grace  of  God,  of 


Great  Britain,  France,  and  Ireland 
Queen.) 

We  are  tidd  that  Charles  II.  tnuched  O-'.Ior  per- 
sons. The  smallest  nnniher  in  one  year  was  I'.B.O, 
in  ItiCfl;  and  I  he  laipi'St  ninnl.er  was  in  ir.Ml,wlien 
many  were  trampled  to  death.  (.sVv;  .Maranlay's 
llislorii  uf  EwjUind,  chap,  xiv.)  John  lirown,  a 
royal  snru-eon.  had  to  suiicriutcnd  the  cereinonj-. 
(See  ilticbeth,  iv.3.) 

King's  Keys.  The  crow-bars,  hatchets, 
and  hammers  used  by  sheriffs'  officers  to 
force  doors  and  locks.      {Law  phrase.) 

"The  door,  framed  to  withstand  attacks  from 
exciseman,  constables, and  other  persoiiagi's  con- 
sidered to  iisf  the  kinK's  keys  .  .  .  set  his  efforts 
at  deflinre.'  -  .>-'ir  11'.  Scutt :  Itrdyuimtlct,  chap.  xix. 

King's  Men.  The  78th  Foot ;  so 
called  from  tlieir  motto,  "  Ciddich^r 
J{hi  "  (Help  the  king). 

It  was  njisi'd  hy  Kenneth  Mackenzio,  Ear]  of 
Seafortb,  in  1777,  and  called  the  Seaforth  High- 
landers. In  17h;i  it  hecame  the  72nd  Koot.  From 
ls.to  to  iHMl  it  wa-i  called  the  "  Duke  of  Alhany's 
HiKhlanders"  ;  and  in  issl  it  was  madi-  the  t'nil 
Uattalimi  of  the  'Soaforth  HiKhlanders  (Uo.ss- 
Bhirc  lUiir.-i,  Ihe  IHike  of  Albany  s." 

King's  Mess  ( The).  An  extra  mess  of 
rice  boiled  with  milk — or  of  almonds, 
peas,  or  other  pulse — given  to  the  monks 
of  Melrose  Abbey  by  Kobeit  [Bruce], 
the  feast  to  be  held  on  January  10th, 
and  £100  being  set  aside  for  the  imrjiose  ; 
but  the  monks  were  bound  to  feed  on 
the  same  day  fifteen  poor  men,  and  give 
to  each  four  ells  of  broad  cloth  or  six 
ells  of  narrow  cloth,  with  a  pair  of  shoes 
or  sandals. 

King's  Oak  {The).  The  oak  under 
which  lleiny  VIII.  sat,  in  Ejijiing Forest, 
while  Anne  (Boleyn)  was  being  exe- 
cuted. 

King's  Picture.  Money ;  so  called 
becaus'i  coin  is  stamped  with  "the 
image  "  of  the  reigning  sovereign. 

King's  Quhair.  King's  book  (James 
I.).      "  Cahier  "  is  a  copybook. 

King's  Cheese  goes  half  in  Paring. 

A  king's  iiicriino  is  li;ilf  consumed  by  the 
numerous  calls  on  liis  jmrse. 

King's  Hanoverian  White  Horse 

{The).  Tlic.SthFoot;  called  the  ••King's 
Hanoverian"  for  their  service  against 
the  Pretender  in  1715,  and  called  the 
"  Wliite  Horse  "  from  their  b.adge  ;  now 
called  the  "  Liverpool  Regiment." 

King's  Own    Scottish   Borderers 

{TIte).  Eaised  by  L'-veu  when  Claver- 
house  rode  out  of  Edinburgh. 

Kings.  Of  the  2, .5.50  sovereigns  who 
have  hitherto  reigned, 

300  have  been  overthrown. 

1.34  have  been  assassinated. 

123  have  been  taken  captive  in  war. 

108  have  been  executed. 


Kings  708 


IPO  have  been  slain  in  battle. 
64  have  been  forced  to  abdicate. 
'    28  have  committed  suicide. 
25  have  been  tortured  to  death. 
23  liave  become  mad  or  imbecile. 

Kings,  etc.,  of  England.  Much 
foolish  suijerslition  has  of  late  been  cir- 
culated resjiecting  certain  days  supposed 
to  be  "fatal"  to  the  crowned  heads  of 
Great  Britain.  The  following  list  may 
help  to  discriminate  truth  from  fiction  : 

[From  iiipaiis  the  ro^rn.al  year  coramcuced  from  : 
Til  is  the  day  of  death.] 

William  I.,  from  Monday,  December 
25th,  1060,  to  Thiirsdai/,  September  9th, 
1():S7  ;  William  II.,  from  hu»drni,  Sep- 
lenber  2(Jth,  1087,  to  Thursday,  August 
2ik1,  1100;  Henry  I.,  from  Sunday, 
August  5th,  1100,  to  Sunday,  December 
1st,  11.'35;  Stephen,  from  Thursday, 
December  26th,  1135,  to  Monday,  Octo- 
ber 25th,  1154. 

Henry  II.,  from  Sundai/,  December 
19th,  1154,  to  Thursday,  July  6th,  1189; 
EiCHARD  I.,  from  Sundai/,  September 
3rd,  1189,  to  Tuesday,  Apiil  6th,  1199; 
John,  from  Thursday,  May  27th,  1 199,  to 
irtdncsday,  October  19th,  1216;  Henry 
III.,  from  iSaturday,  October  28th,  1216, 
to  Wednesday,  November  16th,  1272 ; 
Edward  I.,  from  Sundaii,  November 
20th,  1272,  to  Friday,  July  7th,  i;307  ; 
Edward  II.,  from  Saturday,  July  8th, 
1307,  to  Tuesday,  January '20th,  1327; 
Edward  III.,  from  Sunday,  January 
25th,  1327  (n.s.).  to  Sa)uh(y,  June  21st, 
1377;  Richard  II.,  from  Mojidai/,  June 
22nd,  1377,  to  Mondai/,  September  29th, 
1399;  Henry  IV.,  from  Tuesdaii,  Sep- 
tember 30th,  1399,  to  Mondai/^  March 
2.)th,  1413;  Henry  V.,  irom  Tuesday, 
March  21st,  1413,  to  Monday,  August 
31st,  1422;  Henry  VI.,  froni  Tuesday, 
September  1st,  1422,  to  Jf'ednesday, 
March  4tli,  1461  ;  Edward  IV.,  from 
ll'ednesdai/,  March  4th,  1461,  to  Wednes- 
dai/,  April  9th,  1483  ;  Edward  V.,  from 
irediiesdiiy,  April  9th,  1483,  to  Sunday, 
June  22nd,  1483;  Richard  III.,  from 
Thursdu!/.  June  26,  1483,  to  Monday, 
August  22nd,  1485. 

Henry  VII.,  from  Monday,  August 
22nd,  1485,  to  Saturday,  April  21st,  1509; 
Henry  VIII.,  from  Sunday,  April  22nd, 
1509,  to  Friday,  January  28th,  1547; 
Edward  VI.,  fromi^rirfffy,  January  28th, 
1547,  to  Thursday,  July  6th,  1553; 
Mary,  from  Thursday,  July  6th,  1553,  to 
Thursday,  November  17th,  1553  ;  Eliza- 
UKTH,  from  Thursday,  November  17th, 
1558,  to  Thursdat/,  March  24tli,  1603. 

James  I.,  from"  Thursday,  March  24th, 


Kings 

1603,  to  Sunday,  March  27,  1625; 
Charles  I.,  from  Sundai/,  March  27th, 
1625,  to  'Tuesday,  January  30th,  1649; 
[Commonwealth— Cromwell,  died  T^ri- 
<;?«-//, September  3-13, 1658;]  Charles II., 
restored  Tuesday,  May  29th,  1660,  died 
Friday,  February  6th,  1685;  James  II., 
from  Tuesday,  February  0th,  1685,  to 
Saturday,  December  11th,  1688;  Wil- 
liam ill.,  from  H'edncsday,  February 
13th,  1689,  to  Monday,  March  8th,  1702; 
Anne,  from  Monday,  March  8tli,  1702, 
to  Sunday,  August  1st,  1714.   (Both  O.S.) 

George  I.,  from  Sunday,  August 
1st,  1714,  to  Saturday,  June  11th, 
1727  O.S.,  1721  N.S. ;  George  II.,  from 
Saturday,  June  11th,  1727,  to  Saturday, 
October" 25th,  1760,  N.S.  ;  George  III, 
from  Saturday,  October  25th,  1760,  to 
Saturday,  January  29th,  1820;  George 
IV.,  fro"m  Saturday,  January  29th,  1820,  ' 
to  Saturday,  June  26th,  1830;  William 
IV.,  from  Saturday,  June  26tli,  1830,  to 
Tuesday,  June  2dth,  1837;  Victoria, 
from  Tuesday,  June  20th,  1837  *  * 
{See  Two.) 

Jleneefivc  have  terminated  their  reign 
on  a  Sunday,  six  on  a  Monday,  four  on  a 
Tuesday,  four  on  a  IJ'ediiesday,  six  on  a 
Thursday,  four  on  a  Friday,  and  six  on  a 
Saturday.  Nine  have  beyun  and  ended 
their  reiyn  on  the  same  day ;  Ilejiry  I. 
and  Fduard  HI.  on  a  Sunday  ;  liiehard 
IJ.  on  a  Monday;  Eduard  IV.,  Anne, 
and  Georye  I.  on  a  Wednesday  :  Mary  on 
a  Thursday  ;  Georye  III.  and  Georye 
IJ".  on  a  Saturday. 

Kinys,  ete.,  of  Fnyland. 

Wiliiam  I.  styled  himself  Kiny  of  (he 
English,  Xorinans,  and  Ciiujinantians  ; 
Henry  I.,  Kiny  of  the  English  and  Iluke 
of  the  JS'ormans  ;  Steiihen,  Kiny  of  the 
Enylish  ;  Henry  II.,  King  of  England, 
Duke  of  Korntandy  and  Aqnitaniu,  and 
Count  of  Anjou;  John,  Kiny  of  Enyland, 
lord  of  Ireland,  Luke  of  Normandy 
and  Acjuitania,  and  Count  of  Anjon ; 
Henry  III.,  in  1259,  dropped  the  titles 
of  "Duke  of  Normandy  "  and  "  Count 
of  Anjou;  "  Edward  I.,  King  of  Enyland, 
lord  of  Ireland,  and  Luke  ej/'Aejuiteneia  ; 
Edward  II.  made  his  sou  "Duke  of 
Aquitania"  in  the  nineteenth  year  of 
his  reign,  and  styled  himself  King  of 
England  and  Lord  of  Ireland ;  Edward 
III.,  from  1337,  adopted  the  style  of 
King  of  France  and  England,  and  Lord 
of  Ireland,  and  Duke  of  Aquitania; 
Richard  II.,  King  of  England  and 
France,  and  Lord  of  Lrelanet ;  Edward 
VI.,  Of  England,  FYanee,  and  Ireland, 
King,  Defender  of  the  Faith — this  last 
title  was  given  to  Henry  VIII.  in  the 


Kings 


709 


Kingly  Titles 


thirty-fifth  year  of  his  reign  ;  Mary,  Of 
I^iifjlaiid,  t'nnice,  and  Ireland,  Queen, 
Defender  of  the  Faith,  and  Supreme  Head 
of  the  Ani/lican  and  Hibernian  Church; 
Charles  L,  Of  Great  Britain,  France, 
and  Ireland,  King,  Defender  of  the 
Faith,  etc.  ;  Commonwealth,  The  Keepers 
of  the  Liberties  of  England,  by  the 
authoritg  of  Parliament,  and  Cromwell 
was  styled  His  Highness ;  Charles  II. 
and  James  II.  as  Charles  I.  ;  William 
and  Mary,  Of  England,  Seotland,  France, 
and  Ireland,  King  and  Queen,  Defeii'lers 
of  the  Faith,  etc. ;  Anne,  Of  Great 
Britain,  France,  and  Ireland,  Queen,  De- 
fender of  the  Faith,  etc.  ;  George  III.,  in 
1801,  abandoned  the  words  "King  of 
France,"  which  had  been  retained  for  432 
years,  and  his  style  was  "  George  III.,  bg 
the  Grace  of  God,  of  the  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  King,  De- 
fenier  of  the  Faith.'" 

Kings  have  Long  Hands.    Do  not 

quarrel  with  a  king,  as  his  power  and 
authority  reach  to  the  end  of  his  do- 
minions. The  Latin  proverb  is,.' ^ An 
veseis  longas  ree/ibus  esse  manus ; '"  and 
the  German,  ''  Mit  gross?n  hcrrcn  cs  ist 
nicht  gut  kirschen  zn  essen."  ("It  is  not 
good  to  eat  cherries  with  great  men,  as 
they  throw  the  stones  in  your  eyes  "). 

"  There's  such  divinity  rli>th  hed^e  a  \iina, 
Tliat  tre.isnii  can  bur  peep  to  what  it  would." 
tihake^lieare :  King  in  J/amlet,  iv.  5. 

The  books  of  the  four  kings.  A  pack 
of  cards. 

"  After  Slipper  \verelirou','lit  in  tlie  hooks  of  the 
four  kint^i."— Rabelais  :  Gtirgantiul  and  Puntur- 
(jritel,  i.  i'J. 

The  three  Icinr/s  of  Cologne.  The  repre- 
sentatives of  the  three  magi  who  came 
from  the  East  to  offer  gifts  to  the  infant 
Jesus.  Tradition  makes  them  three 
Eastern  kings,  and  at  Cologne  the  names 
ascribed  to  them  are  Kaspar,  Melchior, 
and  Balthazar. 

Kings   may    overrids    Grammar. 

{See  Gii.vMM.VR.) 

Kingly  Titles. 

Abgarus  (The  Grand).  So  the  kings 
of  E'iessa  were  style  1. 

Ahim'clech  (my  father  the  kingl.  Tho 
chief  ruler  of  the  ancient  Pliilistines. 

Agng  (lord).  The  chief  ruler  of  tlie 
Amal'ekites  (4  syl.). 

Akbar  Khan  (very-great  chieftain). 
Hindustan. 

Anar.  The  chief  ruler  of  the  ancient 
Greek  kingdoms.  AnaxandriJn  was  the 
over-king. 

Archon  (The).  The  chief  of  the  nine 
magistrates  of  Athens.  The  next  in  rank 
was  called  Basileus  (3  syl.) ;   and  the 


third     ToUmarch     (3    syl.),    or    Field- 
Marshal. 

Asser  or  Assgr  (blessed  one).  The- 
chief  ruler  of  ancient  Assyria. 

Attabcg  {father  i)viu.ce).     Persia,  1118. 

Augustus.  The  title  of  the  reigning 
Emperor  of  Rome,  when  the  heir  pre- 
sumptive was  styled  "  Coesar."  (See 
Augustus.  ) 

Autocrat  (self-potentate).  One  whose 
power  is  absolute  ;  Eussia. 

Bcglerbeg.     (See  Beg.) 

Ben-IIadad  (son  of  thesuu  or  Ha  lad). 
The  chief  ruler  of  ancient  Damascus. 

Beg  of  Tunis.  In  Turkey,  a  bey  is 
the  governor  of  a  banner,  and  the  chief 
over  the  seven  banners  is  the  bcghtr-beg. 

Brenn  or  Brenhin  (war-chief)  of  the 
ancient  Gauls.  A  dictator  appointed  by 
the  Druids  in  times  of  danger. 

Bretu-alda  (wielder  of  Britain).  Chief 
king  of  the  heptarchy. 

Ceesar.  Proper  name  adojited  by  tlie 
Roman  emperors.     (S>'e  Kaiser.) 

Calif  (successor) .  Successors  of  M^iho- 
met ;  now  the  Grand  Signior  of  Tiu-kej-, 
and  Soplii  of  Persia. 

Canda'ce.  Proper  name  adopted  by 
the  queens  of  Ethiopia. 

Cazique  (Ca-zeek').  American  In- 
dians ;  native  princes  of  the  ancient 
Peruvians,  Cubans,  Mexicans,  etc. 

Chagan.     The  chief  of  the  Avars. 

Cham.     (See  Khan.) 

Cral.     Tlie  despot  of  ancient  Scrvia. 

Cgrus  (mighty).  Ancient  Persia.  {See 
Cyrus.) 

Czar  (Cffisar).  Russia.  Assumed  by 
Ivan  III.,  who  married  a  princess  of  the 
Byzantine  line,  in  147'2.  He  also  intro- 
duced the  double-headed  black  eagle  of 
Byzantium  as  the  national  symbol. 

Dari'Hs,  Latin  form  of  Darawesh 
(king).     Ancient  Persia. 

Deg.  In  Algiers,  before  it  was  an- 
nexed to  France  in  1830.  (Turkish,  ddi, 
uncle.) 

Dictator.  A  military  autocrat,  ap- 
pointed by  the  Romans  in  times  of 
danger. 

Domnu  (lord).     Roumania. 

Emperor.     {See  Impebator  ) 

Empress.  A  female  emperor,  or  the 
wife  of  an  emperor. 

Esin'qce  {q.v.).     Kings  of  Kent. 

Hos'podar.  Moldavia  and  Wallachia ; 
now  borne  by  the  Emperor  of  Russia. 

Impera'tor  (ruler  or  commander).  The 
Latin  form  of  emperor. 

Inca.     Ancient  Peru. 

Judge.     Ancient  Jews  {Shophet). 

Kaiser  (same  as  Caesar,  q.v.).  The 
German  Emperor. 


Kingdom  Come 


710 


Kirke-grlm 


Khmi  (chieftaiu)  or  Ghcngis-KJian. 
Tartaiy.  lu  Persia,  the  governor  of  a 
province  is  called  a  Khan. 

Khedive  (q.v.).     Modern  Egypt. 

Kii/ff  or  Qnecn.  Great  Britain,  etc. 
(Anglo-Saxon  ci/ii,  the  people  or  nation, 
and  -infi  (a  patronymic)  =  the  man  of, 
the  choice  of,  etc.) 

Lama  or  I)alai  Lama  (great  mother- 
of -souls).     Thibet. 

J/<'to-A  (king).     Ancient  Jews. 

Morjiil'  or  Great  Mogul' .     Mongolia. 

NejH)i  or  Xejnshee  (lord  protector). 
Abyssinia. 

Nizam'  (ruler).     Hyderabad. 

Fadishah  (fatherly  king).  The  Sul- 
tan's title. 

Pendray'oH  (chief  of  the  dragons,  or 
'■  suminiis  »r.r").  A  dictator,  created 
by  the  ancient  Celts  in  times  of  danger. 

rha'raoh  (light  of  the  world).  An- 
cient Egypt. 

Freside/it.  Kepublics  of  America, 
France,  etc. 

J'tol'emi/  (proper  name  adopted). 
Egypt  after  the  death  of  Alexander. 

Qaeeii.  (Anglo-Saxon,  cueii  ;  Greek, 
f/aiie,  a  woman.) 

Ltaj'ah  or  Maha-rajah  (great  king). 
Hindustan. 

Ltex  (ruler).  A  Latin  word  equivalent 
to  our  king. 

Scherif  (lord) .     Mecca  and  Medina. 

Hliah  (protector).     Persia. 

Sheik  (patriarcli).     Arabia. 

Shop'hetim.  So  the  Jewish  "  judges  " 
were  styled. 

So'phi  (holy).  A  title  of  the  Shah  of 
Persia. 

•Sfa/f holder  (city-holder).  Formerly 
chief  magistrate  of  Holland; 

Sxjf'etes  (dictators).   Ancient  Carthage. 

Sultan  or  Snlclan  (ruler).     Turkey. 

J'ai/iode  or  jrai/wodc  (2  syl.)  of 
Transylvania,  Moldavia,  and  Wallachia. 

Vludika  (ruler).     Montenegro. 

Also,  Aga,  ameer  or  emir,  archdiike, 
count,  doge,  dnke,  effendi,  elector,  exarcli, 
hcrzog  (=  duke),  imaum,  infanta,  land- 
(imman,  landgrave,  mandarin,  margrave, 
or  margravine,  nabob,  pacha  or  bashaw, 
prince,  sachem,  satrap,  seigneur  ov grand- 
seigneur,  sirdar,  siibahdar,  suzerain,  tet- 
rarch,  viceroy,  etc.,  in  some  cases  are  chief 
independent  rulers,  in  some  cases  depen- 
dent rulers  or  governors  subject  to  an 
over-lord,  and  in  others  simply  titles  of 
honour  without  separate  dominion. 

Kingdom  Come.  Death,  the  grave, 
execution. 

"  And  forty  pounds  be  theirs,  a  pretty  sum, 
For  seading  such  a  ruguo  to  kingdom  come." 
FeUr  Pindar :  Subjects /or  Painters. 


Kingsale.  Wearing  a  hat  in  the  pre- 
sence of  RoyaUy. 

Kingsley's  Stand,  the  20th  Foot. 
Called  "  Kingsley'.s  "  from  their  colonel 
(1756-1709);  and  called  "  Stand  "  from 
their  "stand  "  at  Minden  in  17-')9.  Now 
called  the  "  Lancashire  Fusiliers." 

Kingston  Bridge.  A  card  bent,  so 
that  when  the  pack  is  cut,  it  is  cut  at 
this  card.  "  Faire  le  Font  "  is  thus  de- 
scribed in  Fleming  and  Tibbins's  Grand 
Llictionnaire  :  '' Action  de  eourber  epiel- 
ques-uncs  dcs  cartes,  ct  de  les  arranger  de 
telle  sortc  que  cehii  qui  doit  couper  ne 
puisse  guere  couper  qiCa  Vcndroit  qu''on 
rent.'''' 

Kingston  -  on  -  Thames.  Named 
King's-stone  from  a  large,  square  block  of 
stone  near  the  town  hall,  on  which  the 
earl}' Anglo-Saxon  monarchs  knelt  when 
they  were  anointed  to  the  kingly  office  : 
Edward  the  Elder,  Athelstan.  Edmund, 
Etlielred,  Edred,  Edwy,  and  Edward 
the  Martyr  received  on  this  stone  the 
roj-al  unction.  The  stone  is  now  enclosed 
with  railings. 

Kingstown  (Ireland),  formerly  called 
Dunleary.  The  name  was  changed  in 
1S21  out  of  compliment  to  George  IV., 
who  visited  Ireland  that  year,  and  left 
Dunleary  harbour  for  his  return  home 
on  September  oth. 

Kingswoad Lions.  Donkeys;  Kings- 
wood  being  at  one  time  famous  for  the 
number  of  asses  kept  by  the  colliers  who 
lived  thereabout. 

Kinless  Loons.  The  judges  whom 
Cromwell  sent  into  Scotland  were  so 
termed,  because  they  condemned  and 
ac(iuitted  those  brought  before  thera 
wholly  irrespective  of  party,  and  solely 
on  the  merits  of  the  charge  with  which 
they  were  accused. 

Kiosk'.  A  Turkish  summor-lionse 
or  alcove  supported  by  jiillars.  (Turkish, 
kushk ;  Persian,  kushk,  a  palace  ;  French, 
kiosqne. )  The  name  is  also  given  to  news- 
paper stands  in  France  and  Belgium. 

Kirli  of  Skulls.  Gamrie  church  in 
Banffshire ;  so  called  because  the  skulls 
and  other  bones  of  the  Norsemen  who 
fell  in  the  neighbouring  field,  called  the 
Bloody  Pots,  were  built  into  its  walls. 

Kirke-grim.  The  nix  who  looks  to 
order  in  churches,  punishes  those  who 
misbehave  themselves  there,  and  the  per- 
sons employed  to  keep  it  tidy  if  they 
fail  in  their  duty.  {Scandinavian  myth- 
ology.) 


Kirke's   Lambs 


711 


Kiss 


Kirke's  Lambs.  The  Queen's  Eoyal 
West  Suirej'.  Called  "Kiike"  from 
Piercy  Kirke,  their  colonel,  1682-1691  ; 
and  "Lambs"  from  their  badge,  the 
l\(tichal  Liiiiib.  the  crest  of  the  house  of 
Braganza,  in  complimentto  Queen  Catha- 
rine, to  whom  they  were  a  guard  of 
honour  in  her  progi-ess  to  London. 

Kirkrap'ine  (3  syl.).  While  Una 
was  in  the  hut  of  Corcoca,  Kirkrapine 
forced  his  way  in  ;  but  the  lion,  spring- 
ing on  him,  tore  him  to  pieces.  The 
meaning  is  that  Romanism  was  increased 
Ijy  rapine,  but  the  English  liin  at  the 
Reformation  put  an  end  to  the  rapacity 
of  monks.    {Spenser  :  Fai'ric  Quce)i,\)k.  i.) 

Kismet.  The  fulfilment  of  destiny. 
(Turkish,  g'lsmct,  a  lot.) 

'■The  wnr.l  Iciamct,  which  he  srarcel.v  oimi]ire- 
hemleil  before,  seems  now  to  he  fraught  willi  .  .  . 
[ineuiiii!.'].  This  is  kismet ;  tliis  is  the  fulfil- 
ment of  destiny  ;  this  is  to  lo\e."—A'ineteeiith 
CeiitKfii,  February,  18U2,  p.  209. 

Kiss,  as  a  mode  of  salutation,  comes 
from  its  use  to  exjiress  reverence  or 
worship.  Thus  to  adore  idols  and  to 
kiss  idols  mean  the  same  thing.  Lideed, 
the  word  fidore  signifies  simjjly  to  cany 
the  hand  to  the  wouth,  that  is,  to  kiss  it 
to  the  idol.  We  still  kiss  the  hand  in 
salutation.  Various  parts  of  the  body 
are  kissed  to  distinguish  the  character  of 
the  adoration  paid.  Thus,  to  kiss  the 
lips  is  to  adore  the  living  breath  of  the 
licrsou  saluted  ;  to  kiss  the  feet  or  ground 
is  to  humble  oneself  in  adoration  ;  to 
kiss  the  garments  is  to  express  venera- 
tion to  whatever  belongs  to  or  touches 
the  person  who  wears  them.  "  Kiss  the 
Son,  lest  Hebe  angry"  (Ps.  ii.  12), means 
Worship  the  Son  of  God.  Pharaoh  tells 
Joseph,  "Thou  shalt  be  over  my  house, 
and  upon  tliy  mouth  shall  all  ray  people 
kiss,"  meaning  they  shall  reverence  the 
commands  of  Joseph  by  kissing  the  roll 
on  which  his  commands  would  be  written. 
'•  Samuel  poured  oil  on  Saul,  and  kissed 
him,"  to  acknowledge  subjection  to 
God's  anointed  (1  Sam.  x.  1).  In  the 
Hebrew  state,  this  mode  of  expressing 
reverence  arose  from  the  form  of  govern- 
ment established,  whether  under  the 
patriarchal  or  matrimonial  figure. 

A  Judas  kiss.  An  act  of  treacheiy. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  apostle  Judas,  who 
betrayed  his  Master  with  a  kiss. 

Kiss  Hands  (To).  To  kiss  the  hand 
of  the  sovereign  either  on  accepting  or 
retiring  from  a  high  government  office. 
{See  Kiss.) 

"  Ki3.?in.'r  the  hand  to  the  statue  of  a  god  was  a 
Roman  form  of  adoration."— ,Spe»ifer:  I'rinciples 
o/Suciologi/,  vol.  ii.  part  iv.  chap.  6,  p.  123, 


Kiss  the  Book.  After  taking  a  legal 
oath,  we  are  commanded  to  kiss  the 
book,  which  in  our  English  courts  is  the 
New  Testament,  except  when  Jews  "  are 
sworn  in."  This  is  the  kiss  of  con- 
firmation or  promise  to  act  in  accord- 
ance with  the  words  of  the  oath  (Mora- 
vians and  Quakers  are  not  requii-ed  to 
take  legal  oaths).  The  kiss,  in  this  case, 
is  a  public  acknowledgment  that  you 
adore  the  deity  whose  book  you  kiss,  as 
a  worshipper. 

U  is  now  permitted  to  aflirm,  if  persons  like  to 
do  so.  Jlr.  Bradlaugh  refused  to  take  an  oath, 
and  afti-r  some  years  of  contention  the  law  was 
altered. 

Kiss  the  Dust.  To  die,  or  to  be 
slain.  In  Psalm  Ixxii.  9  it  is  said,  "his 
enemies  shall  lick  the  dust." 

Kiss  the  Hare's  Foot  {7v).  To  be 
late  or  too  late  for  dinner.  The  hare 
"has  run  away,  and  you  are  only  in  time 
to  "  kiss  "  the  print  of  his  foot.  A  com- 
mon proverb. 

"You  must  kiss  tlie  hare's  foot;  post  festuin 
vaiisti."  —Cole :  Victiumiri/. 

Kiss  the  Mistress  (?o).  To  make 
a  good  hit,  to  shoot  right  into  the  eye  of 
the  target.  In  bowls,  what  we  now  call 
the  Jack  iised  to  be  called  the  "mis- 
tress," and  when  one  ball  just  touches 
another  it  is  said  "  to  kiss  it."  To  kiss 
the  Mistress  or  Jack  is  to  graze  another 
bowl  with  your  own. 

"  Rub  on.  and  kiss  the  m\itrcss.''—SIiaI,-espeare : 
Troiliis  and  Cret^aida,  iii.  2. 

Kiss  the  Red  {To).  To  submit  to 
punishment  or  misfortune  meekly  and 
without  murmuring. 

Kiss  behind  the  Garden  Gate  (./). 

A  pans}^  A  practical  way  of  saying 
"  I'ci/srz  dc  Dwi,''^  the  flower-language  of 
the  pans}'. 

Kiss  given  to  a  Poet.  IMargaret, 
daughter  of  James  I.  of  Scotland  and 
wife  of  Louis  XI.  (when  only  dati])hin), 
ki.ssed  the  mouth  of  Alain  Chartier  "for 
littering  so  many  fine  things. ' '  Chartier, 
however,  was  a  decidedly  ugly  man, 
and,  of  course,  was  asleep  at  the  time. 

The  tale  is  sonietime.3  erroneously  told  of 
Ronsard  tbe  poet. 

Kiss  the  Gunner's  Daughter  {To). 
To  be  flogged  on  board  shij),  being  tied 
to  the  breech  of  a  cannon. 

"  I  was  made  to  kiss  the  wench  that  never 
speaks  but  when  she  scolds,  and  that's  the  gun- 
ner's daughter,  .  .  .  Yes,  the  minister's  son  .  .  . 
has  the  cat's  scratch  ou  his  back."— Sir  W.  Scott : 
liedguunttet,  chap.  xiv. 

Kiss  the  Place  to  make  it  Well. 

A  relic  of  a  very  common  custom  all 


Kissing 


71^ 


Kit-cat  Club 


over  the  world  of  sucking  poison  from 
wounds.  St.  Martin  of  Tours,  when 
he  was  at  Paris,  observed  at  the  city 
gates  a  leper  full  of  sores ;  and,  going 
up  to  him,  he  kissed  the  sores,  where- 
upon the  leper  was  instantly  made  whole 
{■Sidpicius  Serenis  :  Dialogues).  Again, 
when  St.  Mayeul  had  committed  some 
grave  offence,  he  was  sent,  by  way  of 
penance,  to  kiss  a  leper  who  was  begging 
alms  at  the  monastery.  St.  Mayeul 
went  up  to  the  man,  kissed  his  wounds, 
and  the  leprosy  left  him.  Half  a  score 
similar  examples  may  be  found  in  the 
Bollandistes,  without  much  searcliing. 
•'  will)  ran  to  lielp  me  wlion  I  fell, 
Aud  kissed  the  place  to  make  it  well  ?" 

Kissing-comfit.  The  candied  root  of 
the  Seii-rri/nf/ii(iii  marituiiitm  prepared 
as  a  lozenge,  to  ^lerf  ume  the  breath. 

Kissing-crust.  The  crust  where 
the  lower  lump  of  bread  kisses  the 
iijiper.     In  French,  haUure  dc paw. 

Kissing  the  Hand.  Either  kissing 
the  sovereign's  hand  at  a  public  intro- 
duction, or  kissing  one's  own  hand  to 
bid  farewell  to  a  friend,  and  kissing  the 
tips  of  our  fingers  aud  then  moving  the 
hand  in  a  sort  of  salutation  to  imply 
great  satisfaction  at  some  bea,utiful  ob- 
ject, thouglit,  or  other  charm,  are  rem- 
nants of  pagan  worship.  If  the  idol 
was  conveniently  low  enough,  the  de- 
votee kissed  its  hand  ;  if  not,  the  devotees 
kissed  their  own  hands  and  waved  them 
to  the  image.  God  said  He  had  in  Israel 
seven  thousand  persons  who  had  not 
bowed  unto  Baal,  ' '  every  mouth  which 
hatli  not  kissed  him."     (A'ce-Kiss.) 

."  JIany  .  .  .  whom  the  fame  of  this  excellent 
visum  liarl  gathered  thither,  confounded  liv  that 
niatchless  lieauty,  could  but  kiss  the  Hneer-tips 
<it  tlieir  riKlit  hands  at  sight  of  her,  as  iu  adora- 
tion to  the  goddess  Veuua  herself ."  — Pa^cr  • 
ilaniia  tlie  -Epicurean,  chap.  v. 

Kissing  the  Pope's  Toe.  Matthew 
of  Westminster  says,  it  was  customary 
formerly  to  kiss  the  hand  of  his  Holiness; 
but  tha.t  a  certain  woman,  in  the  eightli 
century,  not  only  kissed  the  Pope's 
hand,  but  "squeezed  it."  The  Church 
magnate,  seeing  the  danger  to  which 
he  was  exposed,  cut  off  his  hand,  aud 
was  compelled  in  future  to  offer  his 
foot,  a  custom  which  has  continued  to 
the  present  hour. 

Kissing    under     the     Mistletoe. 

Balder,  tlie  Apollo  of  Scandinavian  my- 
thology, was  killed  by  a.  mistletoe  arrow 
given  to  the  blind  Hijder,  by  Loki,  the 
god  of  misclaicf  and  potentate  of  our 
earth.    Balder  was  restored  to  life,  but 


the  mistletoe  was  placed  in  future  under 
the  care  of  Fi'iga,  and  was  never  again 
to  be  an  instrument  of  evil  till  it  touched 
the  earth,  the  empire  of  Loki.  It  is 
always  suspended  from  ceilings,  and 
when  persons  of  opposite  sexes  pass 
imder  it,  they  give  each  other  the  kiss 
of  peace  and  love  in  the  full  assurance 
that  the  epiphyte  is  no  longer  an  in- 
strument of  mischief. 

A  correspondent  in  Kofts  and  Queries 
suggests  that  the  Romans  dedicated  the 
holly  to  Saturn,  whose  festival  was  in 
December,  and  that  the  early  Christians 
decked  their  houses  with  the  Saturnian 
emblems  to  deceive  the  Romans  and 
escape  persecution. 

Kist-vaen  (T/ie).  A  rude  stone 
sepulchre  or  mausoleum,  like  a  chest 
with  a  flat  stone  for  a  cover. 

"At  length  they  reached  a  grassy  mound,  on  the 
top  of  which  was  placed  one  of  those  receptacles 
for  the  dead  of  the  ancient  British  chiefs  of  dis- 
tinction, called  Kist-vaen,  which  are  composed  of 
upriL'ht  fiairnients  of  granite,  so  placeil  as  to 
form  a  stone  coffin.  .  .  ."—Sir  Walter  Scult:  The 
Bdnitlied,  chap.  xxix. 

Kist  of  Whistles  (A).  A  church- 
organ  (Scotch).     Cisf,  a  box  or  chest. 

Kist'nerap'pan.  The  Indian  water- 
god.  Persons  at  the  point  of  death  are 
sometimes  carried  into  the  Ganges,  and 
sometimes  to  its  banks,  that  Kistnerap- 
pan  may  purify  them  from  all  defilement 
before  they  die.  Others  have  a  little 
water  poured  into  the  palms  of  their 
hands  with  the  same  object. 

Kit.  (Anglo-Saxon,  JiCtie,  a  cist  or 
box  [of  tools].)  Hence  that  which  con- 
tains the  necessaries,  tools,  etc.,  of  a 
workman. 

A  xoMicr^s  Jiit.    His  outfit. 

Tlic  whole  kit  of  them.  The  whole  lot. 
{Sec  above.)     Used  contemptuously. 

Kit.  A  three-stringed  fiddle.  (Anglo- 
Saxon,  cytcrc  ;  Latin,  ciiliara.) 

Kit-cat  Club.  A  club  formed  in 
1688  by  the  leading  Whigs  of  the  day, 
and  held  in  Shire  Lane  (now  Lower 
Serle's  Place)  in  the  house  of  Cliristo- 
pher  Cat,  a  jjastry-cook,  who  supplied 
the  mutton  pies,  and  after  whom  the  club 
was  named.  Sir  Godfrey  Kneller  painted 
forty-two  portraits  of  the  club  members 
for  Jacob  Tonson,  the  secretary,  whose 
villa  was  at  Barn  Elms,  and  where 
latterly  the  club  was  held.  In  order 
to  accommodate  the  paintings  to  the 
height  of  the  club-room,  he  was  obliged 
to  make  them  three-quarter  lengths ; 
hence  a  three-quarter  portrait  is  still 
called  a  kit-cat. 


Kit  Cats 


713 


Kneph. 


Strictly  speaking,  a  kit-cat  canvas  is 
twenty-eight  inches  by  thirty-six. 

"Steele,  Addison,  Congreve,  Garth,  Vanhrugb, 
Mail  waring'.  Stepney,  Walpole,  and  Pultenev 
were  of  it  •  so  was  Lord  Dorset  and  the  present 
Duke.  Manwariug  .  .  .  was  the  ml inj?  man  in  all 
conversation.  .  .  ."Lord  .Stanhopeand  the  Earl  of 
Essex  were  also  meiuliers.  .  . .  Each  member  gave 
his  [picture]." — I'opc  to  Si'cnce. 

V  Cowley  the  poet  lived  at  Barn  Elms 
Villas. 

Kit  Cats.  Mutton  pies  ;  so  called 
from  Christopher  Cat,  the  pastrycook, 
who  excelled  in  these  pasties.  {See 
above.) 

Kit's  Coty  House,  on  the  road  be- 
tween Rochester  and  Maidstone,  a  well- 
known  cromlech,  is  Katigeru's  or  Kiti- 
f/eni''s  cot//  hoiixe — that  is,  the  house  or 
tomb  of  kitigem,  made  of  co'itsi  or  huge 
llat  stones.  {Hce  Hackell's  Coit  and 
Devil's  Coit.) 

Katigem  was  the  brother  of  Vortimer, 
and  leader  of  the  Britons,  who  was  slain 
in  the  battle  of  Aylesford  or  Epsford, 
fighting  against  Heugist  and  Horsa. 
Lambarde  calls  it  Citucotvhouse  (l.")70). 
The  structure  consists  of  two  upright 
side-stones,  one  standing  in  the  middle 
as  a  support  or  tenon,  and  a  fourth  im- 
posed as  a  roof.  Numberless  siones  lie 
scattered  in  the  vicinity.  Often  spelt 
"  Kitt's  Cotty  House." 

Kitchen.  Any  relish  eaten  with  dry 
bread,  as  cheese,  bacon,  dried  fish,  etc. 

"  A  hunsry  heart  wad  scarce  seek  better  kitchen 
tf)  a  barley  scone."— .Sir  H'.  Hcott :  The  Pirate, 
chap.  xi. 

Kitchenmaid  {Mrs.).  So  Queen 
Elizabeth  called  Lord  Mountjoy,  her 
lord-deputy  in  Ireland.  In  one  of  her 
letters  to  Lord  Mountjoy  she  writes  : — 

"  With  your  fryincr-pan  and  other  kitchen-stuff 
you  havelirouglit  to  their  last  home  mure  rebels 
than  those  that  proiiiiseJ  more  and  did  less." 

Kite  {A),  in  legal  phraseology,  is  a 
junior  counsel  who  is  allotted  at  an 
assize  court  to  advocate  the  cause  of  a 
prisoner  who  is  without  other  defence. 
For  this  service  he  receives  a  guinea 
as  his  honiirarium.  A  kite  on  Stock 
Exchange  means  a  worthless  bill.  An 
honorarium  given  to  a  baiTister  is  in 
reality  a  mere  kite.  {See  below,  Kite- 
flying.) 

Kite-flying.  To  flij  the  late  is  to 
"  raise  the  wind,"  or  obtain  money  on 
bills,  whether  good  or  bad.  It  is  a 
Stock  Exchange  phrase,  and  means,  as 
a  kite  flutters  in  the  air  by  reason  of  its 
lightness,  and  is  a  mere  toy,  so  these 
bills  fly  about,  but  are  light  and  worth- 
less.   {Jiee  Stock  Exchange  Slang.) 


Kitely  (2  syl.).  A  jealous  city  mer- 
chant in  Ben  Jonson's  Every  Man  hi 
his  Hionour. 

Kittle  of  Fish.  A  prettij  kittle  of 
Jish.  A  pretty  muddle,  a  bad  job.  Cor- 
ruption of  "  kiddle  of  flsh."  A  kiddle 
is  a  basket  set  in  the  opening  of  a  weir 
for  catching  fish.  Perhaps  the  Welsh 
hi(U  or  hidijl,  a  strainer.    [Jiec  Kettle.) 

Klaus  {Peter).  The  prototj'pe  of  Rip 
Van  Winkle,  whose  sleep  lasted  twenty 
years.  Pronounce  Kloivs.  {See  Santa 
Klaus.) 

Klephts  {The)  etymologically  means 
robber",  but  came  to  be  a  title  of  dis- 
tinction in  modern  Greece.  Those 
Greeks  who  rejected  all  overtures  of 
their  Turkish  conquerors,  betook  them- 
selves to  the  mountains,  where  they  kept 
up  for  several  years  a  desultory  warfare, 
supporting  themselves  by  raids  on 
Turkish  settlers.  Aristoteles  Valaoritis 
(born  1824)  is  the  great  "poet  of  the 
Klephts."  (See  Nineteenth  Ventitn/, 
July,  1891,  p.  130.) 

Knack.  Skill  in  handiwork.  The  de- 
rivation of  this  word  is  a  great  puzzle. 
Minshew  suggests  that  it  is  a  mere  vari- 
ant of  knock.  Cotgrave  thinks  it  a 
variant  of  snap.  Others  give  the  German 
hnacken  (to  sound). 

Knave.  A  lad,  a  gar<,-on,  a  servant. 
(Anglo-Saxon,  enafa  ;  Gennan,  hnabe.) 
The  knave  of  clubs,  etc.,  is  the  son  or 
servant  of  the  king  and  queen  thereof. 
In  an  old  version  of  the  Bible  we  read  : 
"Paul,  a  knave  of  Jesus  Christ,  called 
to  be  an  apostle,"  etc.  (Rom.  i.  1). 

This  version,  we  are  told,  is  in  the  Harleian 
Library,  but  is  generally  supposed  to  be  a  forgery. 
But,  without  doubt,  Wycliff  (Rev.  xii.  5,  13)  used 
the  compound  "Knave-child,"  and  Chaucer  uses 
the  same  in  the  Man  of  Lane's  'I'ale,  line  5130. 

Knave  of  Hearts  {A).    A  flirt. 

Knave  of  Sologne  {A).  More  knave 
than  fool.  The  French  say  "  lit  niai.s  tie 
Sologne.'''  Sologne  is  a  part  of  the  de- 
partments of  Loiret  et  Loire-et-Cher. 

Knee.  Greek,  gonn ;  Latin,  genu ; 
French,  genou  ;  Sanskrit,  janii  ;  Saxon, 
cneow ;  German,  knie ;  English,  A««'. 

Knee  Tribute.  Adoration  or  reve- 
rence, by  prostration  or  bending  the  knee. 

"  I'oming  to  receive  fnmi  us 
Knee-tribute  yet  unpaid,  pmstration  vile." 
Miltua  :  1-aradUe  Lust,  v.  782. 

Kneph.  The  ram-headed  god  of 
ancient  Egypt,  called  also  Ameu-ra,  and 
by  the  Greeks,  Amraon. 


Knickerbocker 


7U 


I^ights  Baronets 


Knickerbocker  {Dicdrich).  The 
imaginary  author  of  a  facetious  History 
of  Neir  York,  }>y  Washington  Irving. 

Knickerbockers.  Loose  knee- 
hreeches,  worn  by  boys,  cyclists,  sports- 
men, tourists,  etc.  So  named  from 
George  Cruikshank's  iUustrations  of 
Wasliington  Irvlng's  book  referred  to 
above.  In  these  illustrations  the  Dutch 
Avorthies  are  drawn  with  A^'ry  loose 
knee-breeches. 

Knife  is  the  emblem  borne  by  St. 
Ag'atha,  St.  Albert,  and  St.  Christi'na. 

The  flailing  knife  is  the  emblem  of 
St.  Bartholomew,  because  he  was  flayed. 

A  sacr'ifchig  knife  is  borne  in  Christian 
art  by  St.  Zadkiel,  the  angel. 

T/ie  knife  of  academic  knots.  Chrysip'- 
pos,  so  called  because  he  was  the  keenest 
disputant  of  his  age  (b.c.  280-207). 

War  to  the  knife.    Deadly  strife. 

Knife  =  sword  or  dagger. 

■'  Till  my  keen  knife  see  not  tbe  wound  it  makes." 
fihal:espeare :  Macbeth,  i.5. 

Knife  and  Fork.  Jfe  is  a  capital 
knife-arid-jurk,  a  good  trencherman. 

•■  Ho  (iiii  Jiie  limiour  to  tlio  repast ;  lie  ate  and 
drank,  and  proved  a  caiiital  knife-and-fork  even 
at  tlie  risk  of  dying  tlie  same  niglit  of  an  m- 
digostion.'— G'citon'dK  ;  Fromhe  of  Marriuye,  vi. 

Knifeboard.  One  of  the  seats  for 
passengers  running  along  the  roof  of  an 
onniilius.     Xow  almost  obsolete. 

Knight  means  simply  a  botj.  (Saxon, 
cni/it.)  As  boys  (like  the  Latin  piier 
and  French  garcon)  were  used  as  ser- 
vants, so  cniht  came  to  mean  a  servant. 
Ihose  who  served  the  feudal  kings  bore 
arms,  and  persons  admitted  to  this  privi- 
lege were  the  king's  knights ;  as  this 
distinction  was  limited  to  men  of  family, 
the  word  became  a  title  of  honour  next 
to  the  nobility.  In  modern  Latin,  a 
knight  is  termed  a>ira'tiis  (golden),  from 
the  gilt  spurs  which  ho  used  to  wear. 

Last  of  the  kniqhts.  Maximilian  I.  of 
Germany  (14.;9,  140:3-1.119). 

Knight  Rider  Street  (London).  So 
named  from  the  processions  of  knights 
from  the  Tower  to  Smithfield,  where 
tournaments  were  held.  Leigh  Hunt 
says  the  name  originated  in  a  sig-n  or 
some  reference  to  the  Heralds'  College 
in  the  vicinity. 

Knight  of  La  Mancha.  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,  the  hero  of  Cervantes' 
novel,  called  l)on  Quixote. 

Knight  of  the    Bleeding   Heart. 

The   Bleeding    Heart  was    one  of    the 
many    semi-religious    orders  instituted 


in  the  Middle  Ages  in  honour  of  the 
Virgin  Maiy,  whose  "  heart  was  pierced 
with  many  sorrows." 

"Wlien  lie  was  at  Hnlyrood  who  would  have 
said  that  the  young,  sprightly  George  Douglas 
would  have  been  content  to  jday  the  locksman 
here  in  Lochleven,  with  no  wayer  ainuscmenl 
than  that  of  turning  the  key  on  two  or  throe  help- 
less wiimen  ?  A  strange  office  for  a  Knight  of  the 
Bleeding  Heart."— .Sir  If.  Scott:  The  -ifi^of,  xxiii. 

Knight  of  the  Cloak  (The).  Sir 
Walter  Raleigh.  So  called  from  his 
throwing  his  cloak  into  a  ]*«ddle  for 
Queen  Elizabeth  to  step  on  as  she  was 
about  to  enter  her  barge.  (See  Kenil- 
irorth,  chap,  xv.) 

"Your  lordship  menneth  that  Raleigh,  the 
Devonshire  youth,'  said  Varney,  '  the  Knight  of 
the  Cloak,  as  they  call  him  at  Cuurt."—  Ditto, 
chap.  xvi. 

Elizabeth,  in  the  same  novel,  addresses 
him  as  Sir  Squire  of  the  Soiled  Cassock. 

Knight  of  the  Couching  Leopard 

{Till).  Sir  Kenneth,  or  rather  the  Earl 
of  Huntingdon,  Prince  Royal  of  Scot- 
land, who  followed,  incognito,  Richard  I. 
to  the  Crusade,  .and  is  the  chief  char- 
acter of  the  Talisman,  a  novel  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott. 

Knight  of  the  Order  of  John- 
William  (A).  In  French  :  "  Cheralier 
dc  I'ordrc  dc  .Iran  GniUaumc,''''  a  man 
hanged.    {See  Jonx- William.) 

Knight  of  the  Post.    A  man  in  the 

pillory,  or  that  has  been  tied  to  a  whip- 
])ing-post,  is  jestingly  so  called. 

Knight  of  the  Rueful  Counte- 
nance.    Don  Quixote. 

Knight's  Fee.  A  portion  of  land 
held  by  custom,  sufficient  to  maintain  a 
knight  to  do  service  as  such  for  the 
king.  William  the  Conqueror  created 
()0,000  such  fees  when  he  came  to  Eng- 
land. All  who  had  £20  a  year  in  lands 
or  income  were  compelled  to  be  knights. 

Knight's  Ward  (lite).  A  superior 
compartment  in  Newgate  for  those  wh® 
jiaid  three  jiieces  by  way  of  '"  garnish." 
No  longer  in  existence. 

Knights.     {Sec  Ceoss-Legged  .  .  .) 

Knights  Bachelors.  Persons  who 
are  simply  knights,  but  belong  to  no 
order.     (French,  has-clievaliers.) 

Knights  Bannerets.  Knights  cre- 
ated on  the  field  of  battle.  The  king  or 
general  cut  off  the  point  of  their  flag, 
and  made  it  square,  so  as  to  resemble  a 
banner.  Hence  knights  bannerets  are 
called  Knights  of  the  Square  Flag. 

Knights  Baronets.  Inferior  barons, 
an  order  of  hereditarj-  rank,  created  by 


Knights  Errant 


715 


Knights  of 


James  I.  in  1611.  The  title  was  sold  for 
money,  and  the  funds  went  nominally 
towards  the  plantation  of  Ulster.  These 
kniglits  bear  the  arms  of  Ulster,  viz.  a 
field  argent,  a  sinister  hand  couped  at 
the  wrist  giihs.     {See  Hand.) 

Knights  Errant.  In  Frftuce,  from 
768  to  987,  the  land  was  encumbered 
with  fortified  castles  ;  in  England  this 
was  not  the  case  till  the  reign  of  Stephen. 
The  lords  of  these  castles  uised  to  carry 
off  females  and  commit  rapine,  so  that  a 
class  of  men  sprang  up,  at  least  in  the 
pages  of  romance,  who  roamed  about  in 
full  armour  to  protect  the  defenceless 
and  aid  the  oppressed. 

'•'  Prux'  ni.i  qunu'iP  metit  glad'io'ia  tUe perfect 
accninit  iif  :i  ku  g!]t  errant."— ili-i/t'eu  ;  Vedicatiun 
vf  the  .-Em' If. 

Knights  of  Carpetry  or  Carpet 
Kiiif/Jits,  are  not  military  but  civil 
knights,  such  as  mayors,  lawyers,  and 
so  on  :  so  called  because  they  receive 
their  knighthood  kneeling  o)i  a  earpet, 
and  not  on  the  battle-field. 

Knights  of  Industry.    Sharpers. 

Knights  of  Labour.  Members  of  a 
trades  union  organised  in  18;i4,  in  the 
United  States  of  America,  to  regulate 
the  amount  of  wages  to  be  demanded 
by  workmen,  the  degree  of  skill  to  be 
exacted  from  them,  and  the  length  of  a 
day's  work.  This  league  enjoins  when 
a  strike  is  to  be  made,  and  when  work- 
men of  the  union  may  resume  work. 

Knights  of  Malta  or  ITospifaUers  of 
AY.  Jo/ui  of  Jenis'iilri)!.  Some  time  after 
the  first  crusade  (1042),  some  Neapolitan 
merchants  built  at  Jerusalem  a  hospital 
for  sick  pilgrims  and  a  church  which 
they  dedicated  to  St.  John  ;  these  they 
committed  to  the  charge  of  certain 
knights,  called  HospitallerH  of  St.  John. 
In  1310  these  Hospitallers  took  Rhode 
Island,  and  changed  their  title  into 
Kiiu/hts  of  It  hod es.  In  1.V23  they  were 
exjielled  from  Rhodes  by  the  Turks, 
and  took  up  their  residence  in  the  Isle 
of  Malta. 

Knights  of  St.  Crispin.  Shoe- 
makers. Crispin  Crispian  was  a  shoe 
maker.     {Hee  IIe)irij  f.,iv.  3.) 

Knights  of  St.  Patrick.  Instituted 
in  1783,  in  honour  of  the  i)atron  saint  of 

Ireland. 

Knights  of  the  Bag.  Bagmen  who 
travel  for  mercantile  orders. 

Knights  of  the  Bath.     {See  Bath.) 

Knights  of  the  Blade.    Bullies  who 


were  for  ever  appealing  to  their  swords 
to  browbeat  the  timid. 

Knights  of  the  Chamber  or  Cham- 
ber KinghtH,  are  knights  bachelors  made 
in  times  of  peace  in  the  pre.'<e)iee  ehamher, 
and  not  in  the  camp.  Being  military 
men,  they  differ  from  ''  carpet  knights," 
who  are  always  civilians. 

Knights  of  the  Cleaver.    Butchers. 

Knights  of  the  Garter.  {Sec 
Gaetee.) 

Knights  of  the  Green  Cloth. 
Same  as  Caepet  Knioiits  (//.'■.). 

Knights  of  the  Handcuffs.  Con- 
stables, policemen,  etc.,  who  carry 
handcuffs  for  refractory  or  suspicious 
prisoners  taken  up  by  them. 

Knights  of  the  Hare.  An  oi  der  of 
twelve  knights  created  by  Edward  III. 
in  France,  upon  the  following  occasion:  — 
A  great  shouting  was  raised  by  the. 
French  army,  and  Edward  thought  the 
shout  was  the  onset  of  battle  ;  but  found 
afterwards  it  was  occasioned  bj'  a  hare 
running  between  the  two  armies. 

Knights  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre. 

An  Order  of  military  knights  founded  by 
Godfrey  of  Bouillon,  in  1099,  to  guard 
the  "Holy  Sepulchre." 

Knights  of  the  Order  of  the  Golden 
Fleece.     Lawyers. 

Knights  of  the  Pencil.  The  betters 
in  races  ;  so  called  because  they  always 
keep  a  pencil  in  hand  to  mark  down 
their  bets. 

Knights  of  the  Pestle  or  Knights 
of  the  Pestle  and  Mortar.  Apotlie- 
caries  or  druggists,  wliose  chief  instru- 
ment is  the  pestle  and  mortar,  used  in 
compounding  medicines. 

Knights  o'  the  Post.  Persons  who 
haunted  the  purlieus  of  the  courts,  ready 
to  be  hired  for  a  bribe  to  swear  anything  ; 
so  called  from  their  being  always  found 
waiting  at  the  posts  which  the  sheriffs 
set  up  outside  theii-  doors  for  posting 
proclamations  on. 

"There  are  knii-'bts  of  tlie  post  and  liooby 
clieats  enough  to  swear  the  truth  of  the  broadest 
contradicticms."— .SoMf/i. 

"  '  A  knight  of  the  nost,'  quoth  he, '  for  so  T  am 
termed;  a  follow  that  will  sweare  you  an>  thing 
for  twelvo  pence.'  "— .Yhs/i  ;  rierce  Peniksse  (159i'.) 

Knights  of  the  Rainbow.  Flun- 
keys ;  so  called  from  their  gorgeous 
liveries. 

"The  servants  who  attended  them  contradicted 
the  inferences  to  be  drawn  from  the  garb  of  tlie:r 
master.^ ;  and,  according  to  the  custom  of  the 
knights  of  the  rainbow,  gave  many  hints  that 
tbev  were  not  peoide  to  serve  any  but  men  of 
first-rate  consequeuce."— ^'ir  TV'.  Scott:  Eedyaunt- 
let,  cliap.  20 


Knights  of 
Knights  of  the  Koad.    Footpads. 

(.SVr  KXIGHTS  OF  THE  POST.) 

Knights    of    the    Round    Table. 

King  Arthur's  knights,  so  called  from 
the  lar^e  circular  table  round  which  they 
sat.  The  table  was  circular  to  iDreveut 
any  heart-sore  about  precedency.  The 
number  of  these  knights  is  variously 
given.  The  popular  notion  is  that  they 
were  twelve ;  several  authorities  say 
there  were  forty;  but  the  Jfistori/  of' 
Friitcc  ArtJiur  states  that  the  table 
was  made  to  accommodate  150.  King 
Leodegrauuce,  who  gave  Arthur  the 
table  on  his  wedding-day,  sent  him  also 
100  knights,  Merlin  furnished  twenty- 
eight,  Arthur  himself  added  two,  and 
twenty  "sieges"  were  left  to  reward 
merit  (chaps,  xlv.,  xlvi.).  These  knights 
went  forth  into  all  countries  in  quest  of 
adventures.     The  most  noted  are — 

<SV)-  Acolon,  IhtUamorc,  licau'maris, 
Belcohus,  Beivoior,  IScrs/ii/t,  ]>ors,  Ik-tor, 
Eric,  Eivai)),  FloU,  Ga'lieris,  Gal'ahad, 
Qal'ohuU,  Gcireth,  Gan'riel,  Gawam  or 
Twain,  Grislct,  Junj,  Lameroch,  Launce- 
lot  (In  Lac,  LioncU,  Marltaus,  Palamide, 
Pa'quinet,  Fcl'lcan,  Fcr'cdur  or  Fer'ccval, 
Sac/ris,  Siiperab'i/is,  Tor,  Tristain  or 
Tristan  de  Lc'onnais,  Turcpiine,  Wig'alois, 
Wig'amar,  etc.,  etc. 

■.•  A  list  of  tlie  kniKhts  and  a  description  nf 
their  armour  is  given  in  the  Theatre  of  Hniimir  liy 
Andrew  Kairne  OO-"-').  According  to  this  list,  tlie 
number  was  151 ;  but  in  Lancelut  of  tlic  Lake  (\  ol. 
ii.  11.  xl),  tliey  are  said.to  have  amounted  to  "joO. 

Knights  of  the  Shears.  Tailors. 
The  word  shear  is  a  play  ou  the  word 
s/iirc  or  county. 

Knights  of  the  Shell.  The  Argo- 
nauts of  St.  Xicholas,  a  military  order, 
instituted  in  the  14  th  century  by 
Carlo  III.,  King  of  Naples.  Their 
insignia  was  a  "  collar  of  shells." 

Knights  of  the  Shire.  Now  called 
County  Members ;  that  is,  members  of 
Parliament  elected  by  counties,  in  con- 
tradistinction to  Borough  members. 

Knights  of  the  Spigot.  Landlords 
of  hotels,  etc.  ;  mine  host  is  a  "knight 
of  the  sjjigot." 

"  Wlien  an  old  son:?  comes  across  lis  inerrv  old 
knis-'lits  of  the  si^igot  it  runs  away  with"  our 
discretion."-,'.';)-  W.  Scott :  Kcnilirorth,  chap.  \  iii. 

Knights  of  the  Swan.  An  order 
of  the  House  of  Cleve. 

^  Knights  Of  the  Stick.  Compositors. 
Tlie  stick  is  the  printer's  "composing 
stick,"  whicli  he  holds  in  his  left  hand 
while  witli  his  right  hand  he  fills  it  with 
letters  from  his  "case."  It  holds  just 
enough  type  not  to  fatigue  the  hand  of 


716 


Knot 


the  compositor,  and  when  full,  the  type 
is  transferred  to  the  "  galley." 

Knights  of  the  Thistle.  Raid  to 
have  been  established  in  cS09  by  Achaicus, 
King  of  the  Scots,  and  revived  in  ir)40 
by  James  V.  of  Scotland.  Queen  Anne 
placed  the  order  on  a  permanent  footing. 
These  knights  are  sometimes  called 
Knifjhts  of  1st.  Andrew. 

Knights  of  the  Whip.    Coachmen. 

Knighten  Guild,  now  called  Port- 
sokc/i  Ward.  King  Edgar  gave  it  to 
thirteen  knights  '  on  the  following  con- 
ditions : —  (1)  Each  knight  was  1o  ba 
victorious  in  three  combats — one  above- 
ground,  one  uudergvoimd,  and  one  in 
the  water  ;  and  ('2)  each  knight  was,  on  a 
given  day,  to  run  with  s]iears  against  iill 
comers  in  East  Sniithtield.  William  the 
Conqueror  confirmed  the  same  unto  the 
heirs  of  these  knights.  Henry  I.  gave 
it  to  the  canons  of  Holy  Trinity,  and 
acquitted  it  "  of  all  service." 

Knipperdollings.  A  set  of  German 
heretics  about  the  time  of  the  Reforma- 
tion, disciples  of  a  man  named  Bernard 
KnipperdoUing.  {Blount  :  Glosnoijra- 
phia,  1C81.) 

Knock  Under  {To).  Johnson  says 
this  expresf^ion  arose  from  a  custom  once 
common  of  knocking  under  the  table 
when  any  guest  wished  to  acknowledge 
himself  beaten  in  argument.  Another 
derivation  is  hiiuckle  vnder — i.e.  to 
knuckle  or  bend  the  knuckle  or  knee  in 
proof  of  submission.  Bellenden  Kerr 
says  it  is  Te  no'ck  under,  which  he  iu- 
teqirets  "  I  am  forced  to  yield." 

Knocked    into    a    Cocked    Hat. 

Thoroughly  beaten  ;  altered  beyond  re- 
cognition ;  hors  de  combat.  A  cocked- 
hat,  folded  into  a  chapcau  bras,  is 
crushed  out  of  all  shape. 

Knockers.  Goblins  who  dwell  in 
mines,  and  jjoint  out  rich  veins  of  lead 
and  silver.  In  Cardiganshire  the 
miners  attribute  the  strange  noises  so 
frequently  heard  in  mines  to  these 
spirits,  which  are  sometimes  called 
coblyns  (German,  kobolds). 

Knot.  (Latin  nodns,  French  vwud, 
Danish  knndc,  Dutch  knot,  Anglo-Saxon 
cnotta,  allied  to  knit.) 

He  has  tied  a  knot  u-ith  his  tongue  he 
cannot  untie  with  his  teeth.  He  has  got 
married.  He  has  tied  the  marriage  knot 
by  saying,  "  I  take  thee  for  my  wedded 
wife,"  etc.,  but  the  knot  is  not  to  be 
untied  so  easily. 


Knot  and  Bridle 


717 


Kochlani 


The  Gordian  knot.  {See  Gokdian.) 
The  marriage  knot.  {See  Marriage.) 
2'he  ship  urnt  six  or  seven  knots  an 
hoar.  Miles.  The  log-line  is  divided 
iuto  lengths  by  knots,  each  length  is  the 
same  proportion  of  a  nautical  mile  as 
half  a  minute  is  of  an  hour.  The  log- 
line  being  east  over,  note  is  taken  of  the 
number  of  knots  run  out  in  half  a 
minute,  and  this  number  shows  the  rate 
per  hour. 

■."  The  len.5tl]  of  a  knot  is  47'3T  feet  wlien  iiwerl 
with  n,  :!H-sec()ii(l  t'lass,  l>ut  50'75  feet  wheu  the 
b'lass  vans  30  seconds. 

Trne  lorcrs'  knot.  Sir  Thomas  Browne 
thinks  the  knot  owes  its  origin  to  the 
nod  as  Hcrealn'nas,  a  snaky  complication 
in  the  cadu'ceus  or  rod  of  Mercurj',  in 
which  form  the  woollen  girdle  of  the 
Greek  brides  was  fastened. 

To  seek  for  a  knot  in  a  rush.  Seeking 
for  something  that  does  not  exist.  Not 
a  very  wise  phrase,  seeing  tliere  are 
Jointed  rushes,  probably  not  known  wheu 
the  proverb  was  first  current.  The 
Janeas  aeati floras,  the  Janeas  lampo- 
earpas,  the  Janeas  ohtasijlorus,  and  the 
Janeas  potf/eephalas,  are  all  jointed 
rushes. 

Knot  and  Bridle  (A).     A  mob-cap. 

"  I'pim  her  ho.id  :i  sni;ill  mob-cap  she  placed. 
OE   lawn  so    stiff,  with  large  flowered   ribliou 

f-TMced, 
Ycl  'jit  a  knot  and  liridle.'in  a  bow, 
Of  scarlet  llamiUL.'.  her  hniK  cliin  l«dow.-' 

Pitrr  I'imtar:  I'mtfoUo  {Dinah). 

Knots  of  May.  The  cliildren's  gaTue. 
"Here  we  go  gathering  nuts  of  May  " 
is  a  perversion  of  "  Here  we  go  gather- 
ing knots  of  May,"  referring  to  the  old 
otistom  of  gathering  knots  of  flowers  on 
]\Iay-day,  or,  to  use  the  ordinary  phrase, 
"to  go  a-Maying."  Of  course,  there 
arc  no  nuts  to  be  gathered  in  May. 

Knotted  Stick  is  Planed  {The). 
The  house  of  Orleans  is  worsted  by  that 
of  Burgundy.  The  house  of  Orleans 
bore  for  its  badge  a  baton  noaea.r,  the 
house  of  Burgundy  a  plane;  hence  the 
French  saying,  "  Zc  baton  noaeux  est 
plane.''' 

Knotgrass.  Supposed,  if  taken  in 
an  infusion,  to  stop  growth. 

"  Get  you  gone,  you  dwarf  ; 
You  niiiiinuis,  of  hiiideiiiig  knotgrass  made." 
Shulcespeare :  MUlsummer  yigJit's  Dieani,  iii.  2. 

Knout  (1  syl.)  is  a  knotted  bunch  of 
chongs  made  of  hide.  It  is  a  Tartar 
invention,  but  was  introduced  into 
Eussia.     {Knout,  Tartar  for  knot.) 

Know  Thyself.  The  wise  saw  of 
Solon,  the  Athenian  lawgiver  (b.c.  G38- 
5.38). 


Know  the  Fitting  Moment.    The 

favourite  maxim  of  Pittacos,  one  of  the 
"  seven  wise  men." 

Know     Your     Own     Mind.      By 

Murphy ;    borrowed    from    Destouches, 
the  French  dramatist. 

Know-Nothings.  A  secret  political 
party  of  the  United  States,  which  arose 
in  1853,  who  replied  to  every  question 
asked  about  their  society,  "I  know 
nothing  about  it."  Their  object  was  to 
accomplish  the  repeal  of  the  naturalisa- 
tion laws,  and  of  the  law  which  excluded 
all  but  natives  from  holding  office.  The 
party  split  ou  the  slavery  question  and 
died  out. 

Tlie  chief  "principle  nf  the  party  was  tltat  nr> 
one  who  liad  not  been  21  yetirs  in  tlie  Un  ted  States 
should  be  permitted  to  have  any  part  in  the 
government. 

Knows  which  Side  his  Bread  is 
Buttered  {He).  He  is  alive  to  his  own 
interest.     In  Latin,  ^''  Scit  atiforo.'''' 

Knowledge-box  {Yoar).  Your  head, 
the  brain  being  the  seat  of  all  humau 
knowledge. 

Knox's  Croft,  in  Giflford  Gate,  Had- 
dington ;  so  called  because  it  was  the 
birthjilace  of  John  Knox. 

Knuckle-duster.  A  metal  instru- 
ment which  is  fitted  to  a  man's  fist,  and 
may  be  readily  used  in  self-defence  by 
striking  a  blow.  Sometimes  these  in- 
struments are  armed  with  sj^ikes.  It 
was  an  American  invention,  and  was 
used  in  England  in  defence  against  the 
infamous  attacks  of  Spring-heel  Jack. 
We  have  the  i)hrase  "To  du.st  your 
jacket  for  you,"  meaning  to  "beat 
you,"  as  men  dust  carpets  by  beating 
them. 

Knuckle  Under  {To).  To  kneel  for 
pardon.  Knuckle  here  means  the  knee, 
and  we  still  say  a  "knuckle  of  veal  or 
mutton,"  meaning  the  thin  end  of  the 
leg  near  the  joint.  Dr.  Ogilvie  tells  us 
there  was  an  old  custom  of  striking  the 
under  side  of  a  table  with  the  knuckles 
when  defeated  in  an  argument  ;  and 
Dr.  Johnson,  following  Bailey,  says  the 
same  thing. 

Kobold.  A  house-spirit  in  German 
superstition  ;  the  same  as  our  Eobin 
Goodfellow,  and  the  Scotch  brouiiie 
{q.r.).     {See  Fairy  Hinzelmaxn.) 

Kochla'ni.  Arabian  horses  of  royal 
stock,  of  which  genealogies  have  been 
preserved  for  more  than  2,000  year.s.  It 
is  said  that  they  are  the  offspring  of 
Solomon's  stud.     {Nie/Jithr.) 


Koli-i-Nur 


718 


Kremlin 


Koh-i-Nur  [Mountain  of  lighf].  A 
large  diamond  iu  the  possession  of  the 
Queen  of  England.  It  was  found  on  the 
banks  of  the  Godavery  (Deccan),  15.30, 
and  belonged  to  Shah  Jelian  and  Aurung- 
zebc  the  Great  (Mogul  kings).  In  1739  it 
passed  into  the  hands  of  Nadir  Shah,  who 
called  it  the  Koh-i-niir.  It  next  went  to 
the  monarchs  of  Afghanistan,  and  when 
Shah  Sujah  was  depossessed  he  gave  it 
to  Eunjeet  Singh,  of  the  Puujaub,  as 
the  price  of  his  assistance  towards  the 
recovery  of  the  throne  of  Cabul'.  It 
next  went  to  Dhuleep  Singh,  but  when 
the  Punjaub  was  annexed  to  the  British 
crown  in  1849,  tliis  noble  diamond  was 
surrendered  to  Great  Britain.  It  is 
valued  at  £120,664,  some  say  £140,000. 
Its  i>res;^nt  weiKlit  is  loji',,  carats. 

Kohol  oi-  Kohl.  Eussell  saj-s,  "The 
Persian  women  blacken  the  inside  of 
their  eyelids  with  a  powder  made  of 
black  Koho!." 

"  And  ntliers  mix  the  Knliol's  jetty  dye 
Tci  yive  tliat  Inn?,  dark  laii^uisli  to  tlu'  eye.'' 
Thomas  Moore  :  Lalla  Jioohh,  pari  i. 

Koli  or  the  Kolis.  The  51st  Foot,  so 
called  in  1821  from  the  initial  letters  of 
the  regimental  title,  King's  Own  Light 
Infantr}'.  Subseqiiently  called  the 
"  Second  Yorksliire  (  West  Biding)," 
and  now  called  the  "  1st  Battalion  of 
the  South  Yorkshire  Regiment." 

Konx  Ompax.  The  words  of  dis- 
missal in  tlie  Elcusinian  Mj'steries.  A 
correspondent  in  ^otcs  and  Queries  says 
"konx"  or  "kogx"  is  the  Sanscrit 
Cansclia  (the  object  of  your  desire) ; 
"ompax"  is  om  (amen),  pacsha  (all  is 
over).  If  this  is  correct,  the  words  would 
mean,  God  blfiss  i/ou,  Aineu,  The  cere- 
monies arc  concluded.  When  a  judge 
gave  sentence  by  dropping  his  pebble 
into  the  nrn  of  mercy  or  death,  he  said 
"  Fncsha  "  (I  have  done  it).  The  noise 
made  by  the  stone  in  falling  was  called 
p'icsha  (fate),  and  so  was  the  dripping 
noise  of  the  clepsydra,  which  limited  the 
jileader's  quota  of  time. 

Koppa.  A  Greek  numeral  =  90.  (See 
Episemox.) 

Koran,  or.  with  the  article,  Al-Kordn 
[the  Beading].  The  religious,  social, 
civil,  commercial,  militarj',  and  legal 
code  of  Islam.  It  is  rather  remarkable 
that  we  call  our  Bible  the  irritii///  (Scrip- 
ture), but  the  Arabs  call  their  Bible  the 
vadinfi  (Konin).  We  are  told  to  believe 
that  portions  of  this  book  were  com- 
m'liiirated  to  the  prophet  at  Mecca  and 
Mt^di'na  by  the  angel  Gabriel,  with  the 
£ou:U  of  bells. 


Kor'rigans  or  Corriffan.  Nine  fays 
of  Brittany,  of  wonderful  powers.  They 
can  predict  future  events,  assume  any 
shape  they  like,  move  quick  as  thought 
from  place  to  place,  and  cure  di.'eases  or 
wounds.  They  are  not  more  than  two 
feet  high,  have  long  flowing  hair,  which 
they  are  fond  of  combing,  dress  only 
with  a  white  veil,  are  excellent  singers, 
and  their  favourite  haunt  is  beside  some 
fountain.  They  flee  at  the  sound  of  a 
bell  or  benediction.  Their  breath  is 
most  deadly.     {Breton  mythology.) 

Koumiss  or  Kumiss.  Fermented 
mare's  milk  used  as  a  beverage  by  the 
Tartar  tribes  of  Central  Asia.  A  slightly 
alcoholic  drink  of  a  similar  kind  is  made 
with  great  ceremony  in  Siberia.  It 
consists  of  slightlj^  sour  cow's  milk, 
sugar,  and  yeast.     (Eussian,  kumitisu.) 

"Kumiss  is  still  iiri'pari>ii  from  mare's  milk  liy 
the  I'aliiuic'ks  and  Nocais.  who.  diirin;,'  the  im'o- 
c"ss  of  niakinR  it,  keel:  the  milk  in  constant 
ai-'itatioii."— ifiiH7(H»(»i ;  Ihrodutuf.  vol.  iii.  hook 
iv.  i>.  f. 

V  The  ceremony  of  making  it  is  de- 
scribed at  full  length  by  Noel,  in  the 
Zlictionnaire  de  la  Fable,  vol.  i.  833-834. 

KraaL  A  South  African  vilhige, 
being  a  collection  of  huts  in  a  circular 
form.     (From  corral.) 

Kraken.  A.  supposed  sea-monster  of 
vast  size,  said  to  have  been  seen  off  the 
coast  of  Norway  and  on  the  North 
American  coasts.  It  was  first  desci  ibed 
(1750)  by  Pontoppidan.  Pliny  speaks  of 
a  seaniouster  in  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar, 
which  blocked  the  entrance  of  ships. 

Kratim.  The  dog  of  the  Seven 
Sleepers.  More  correctly  called  Katmir 
or  Ketmir  {q.v.). 

Kremlin  (The).  A  gigantic  pile  of 
buildings  in  Moscow  of  every  style  of 
architecture  :  Arabesque  palaces,  Gothic 
forts,  Greek  temples,  Italian  steeples, 
Chinese  pavilions,  and  Cyclopean  walls. 
It  contains  palaces  and  cathedrals,  mu- 
seums and  barracks,  arcades  and  shops, 
the  Eussian  treasury,  government  offices, 
the  ancient  palace  of  the  patriarch,  a 
throne-room,  churches,  convents,  etc. 
Built  by  two  Italians,  Marco  and  Pietro 
Antonio,  for  Ivan  III.  in  1485.  There 
had  been  previously  a  wooden  fortress 
on  the  spot.     (Eussian  hrem,  a  fortress.) 

"  Towers  nf  every  form,  round,  scinare.  and  witii 
pointed  roofs,  belfries,  donjons,  tniTets,  spires, 
sentrv-boxes  tlxed  on  minarets,  steeples  of  every 
heinlit,  style,  and  colour:  palaces,  domes,  watch- 
towers,  walls  embattlemented  and  pierced  with 
loop-holes,  ramparts,  fortifications  of  every  de- 
smption.  chio^ks  by  the  side  of  cathedrals  ; 
monuments  of  pride  and  caprice,  voluptuousness, 
glorv,  and  piety."— X)e  Custine :  Hussia,  chap.  xxii. 


Krems  White 


719 


Kyle 


?  Every  city  in  Russia  has  its  krem- 

lin  (citadel)  ;  but  that  of  Moscow  is  the 
most  important. 

Krcms  Wliito  takes  its  name  from 
Krem-i  in  Austria,  the  city  where  it  is 
manufactured. 

Kreuzer  (pron.  kroit-zcr).  A  small 
copjier  coin  in  Southern  Germany,  once 
mai'ked  with  across.  (German,  hrcuz,  a 
cross ;  Latin,  crux.) 

Kriem'hild  (2  syl.).  A  beaiitiful 
Burguudiau  lady,  daug-hter  of  Dancrat 
and  Uta,  and  sister  of  Gunther,  Gemot, 
and  Gis'elher.  She  first  married  Sieg- 
fried, King  of  the  Netherlanders,  and 
next  Etzel,  King  of  the  Huns.  Hagan, 
the  Dane,  slew  her  first  husband,  and 
seized  all  her  treasures  ;  and  to  revenge 
these  wrongs  she  invited  her  brothers 
and  Hagan  to  visit  her  in  Hungarj'.  In 
the  first  part  of  the  jSihclnnf/rnUed, 
Kriemhild  brings  ruin  on  herself  by  a 
tattling  tongue: — (1)  She  tells  Brune- 
hild.  Queen  of  Burgundy,  that  it  is 
Siegfried  who  has  taken  her  ring  and 
girdle,  which  so  incenses  the  queen  that 
she  prevails  on  Hagan  to  murder  the 
Netherlander ;  (2)  she  tells  Hagan  that 
the  only  vulnerable  part  in  Siegfried  is 
between  his  shoulders,  a  hint  Hagan 
acts  on.  In  the  second  part  of  the 
great  epic  she  is  represented  as  bent 
on  vengeance,  and  in  executing  her 
pui-pose,  after  a  most  terrible  slaughter 
both  of  friends  and  foes,  she  is  killed  by 
Hildebraud.     {See  Beunehild,  Hagax.) 

Krish'na  {the  black  one).  The  eighth 
avatara  or  incarnation  of  Vishnu.  Kansa, 
demon-king  of  Mathura',  having  com- 
mitted great  ravages.  Brahman  com- 
plained to  Vishnu,  aud  prayed  him  to 
relieve  the  world  of  its  distress :  where- 
upon Vishnu  plucked  off  two  hairs,  one 
white  and  the  other  black,  and  promised 
they  should  revenge  the  wrongs  of  the 
demon-king.  The  black  hair  became 
Krishna.     {Hindu  in>jtholo(/)j.) 

Kriss  Kringle.  A  sort  of  St.  Nic- 
holas iq.>\).  On  Christmas  Eve  Kriss 
Kringle,  arraj-ed  in  a  fur  caj)  and  strange 
apparel,  goes  to  the  bedroom  of  all  good 
children,  where  he  finds  a  stocking  or 
sock  hung  up  in  expectation  of  his  visit, 
in  which  depository  he  leaves  a  inesent 
for  the  young  wearer.  The  word  means 
ahr'ist-ch'iTd.,  and  the  eve  is  called 
"  Kriss  -  Kringle  Eve."  {See  Santa 
Claus.) 

Kri'ta.  The  first  of  the  four  Hindu 
periods  contained  in   <-he  great  Yuga, 


when  the  genius  of  Truth  and  Eight,  in 
the  form  of  a  bull,  stood  firm  on  his 
four  feet,  and  man  gained  nothing  by 
iniquity.     {See  Kaliyuga.  ) 

Krupp  Gun.     {See  Gun.) 

Krupp  Steel.  Steel  from  the  works 
of  Herr  Krupp,  of  Essen,  in  Prussia. 

Ku-Klux-Klan  {Tin).  (ISfit-lSTG.) 
A  secret  society  in  the  Southern  Stat>  s 
of  America  against  the  negro  class,  to 
intimidate,  flog,  mutilate,  or  murder 
tliose  who  opposed  the  laws  of  the 
society.  In  Tennessee  one  murder  a  day 
wds  committed,  aud  if  anyone  attempted 
to  bring  the  murderers  to  justice  he 
was  a  marked  man,  and  sure  to  be 
mutilated  or  killed.  In  fact,  the  Ku- 
Klux-Klan  was  formed  on  the  model  of 
the  "Molly  Maguires"  and  "Moon- 
lighters "  of  Ireland.  Between  Novem- 
ber, 1864,  and  March,  1.S65,  the  number 
of  cases  of  personal  violence  was  400. 
(Greek,  kuldoa,  a  circle.) 

Ku'dos.     Praise,  glory.     {Greclc.) 

Ku'fic.  Ancient  Arabic  letters ;  so 
called  from  Kufa,  a  town  in  the  pashalic 
of  Bagdad,  noted  for  expert  copj-ists  of 
the  ancient  Arabic  MSS. 

Kufic  Coins.  Mahometan  coins  with 
Kufic  or  aucient  Arabic  characters.  The 
first  were  struck  in  the  eighteenth  year 
of  the  Heg'ira  (a.d.  638). 

Kumara  \>jo\ithful'\.  The  Hindu 
war-god,  the  same  as  Karttikeya  {q.v.). 
One  of  the  most  celebrated  Hindu  poem.s 
is  the  legendary  history  of  this  god. 
R.  T.  H.  Griffith  has  translated  seven 
cantos  of  it  into  English  verse. 

Kurd.     A  native  of  Kurdistan. 

Kursaal.  Public  room  at  German 
watering-place  for  use  of  visitors. 

Kuru.  A  noted  legendary  hero  of 
India,  the  contests  of  whose  descendants 
form  the  subject  of  two  Indian  ejiics. 

Ky'anise  (3  syl.).  To  apply  corrosive 
sublimate  to  timber  in  order  to  prevent 
the  dry-rot ;  so  called  from  Dr.  Kyan, 
who  invented  the  process  in  1832.  {See 
Paynising.) 

Kyle,  Carrie?:,  and  Cuuninr/ham. 
Ayrshire  is  divided  into  three  parts: 
Kyle,  a  strong  corn-growing  soil ;  Car- 
rick,  a  wild  hilly  portion,  only  fit  for 
feeding  cattle  ;  and  Cunningham,  a  rich 
dairy  land.     Hence  the  saying— 

",Kyle  fiir  a  man,  Carvick  for  a  con  (cow], 
CunninKliam  for  butter,  Galloway  for  woo' 
[wool]." 


Kyrie  Eleison 


720 


Labourer 


Kyrie  Elei'son  [Ki-ri-e  E-Ii-s'n], 
"Lord,  have  mercy."  The  first  move - 
meut  of  the  Catholic  mass.  Both  the 
music  aud  the  words  are  so  called.  In 
the  Anglican  Church,  after  each  com- 
mandment, the  response  is,  "  Lord,  have 
mercy  upon  us,  and  incline  our  hearts 
to  keep  this  law." 

Kyrie  Society  {T/u^.  Founded  1878, 
for  decorating  the  walls  of  hospitals, 
school-rooms,  mission-rooms,  cottages, 
etc. ;  for  the  cultivation  of  small  open 
spaces,  window-gardening,  the  love  of 
flowers,  etc.  ;  and  improving  the  artistic 
taste  of  the  poorer  classes. 


L.  This  letter  represents  an  ox-goad, 
and  is  called  in  Hebrew  lamed  (an  ox- 
goad). 

L  for  fifty  is  half  G  {centum,  a 
hundred). 

L,  for  a  pound  sterling,  is  the  Latin 
libra,  a  pound.  With  a  line  drawn 
above  the  letter,  it  stands  for  50,000. 

Ii.  E.  L.  Letitia  Elizabeth  Laudon 
(afterwards  Mrs.  Maclean),  a  poetess  of 
the    "Lara"     and    "  Corsaii- "    school 

(1802-1839). 

LL.D.  Doctor  of  Laws — i.e.  both 
civil  and  canon.  The  double  L  is  the 
plural ;  thus  MSS.  is  the  plural  of  MS. 
(manuscript);  pp.,  pages. 

L.  L.  Whisky.  Lord-Lieutenant 
whisky.  Mr.  Kinahan  being  requested 
to  preserve  a  certain  cask  of  wliisky 
highly  approved  of  by  his  Excellency  the 
Duke  of  Richmond,  marked  it  with  the 
initials  L.L.,  and  ever  after  called  this 
particular  quality  L.L.  whisky.  The 
Duke  of  Richmond  was  Lord-Lieutenant 
from  1807  to  1813. 

L.S.  Locus  siffilli,  that  is,  the  place 
for  the  seal. 

L.  S.  D.  Latin,  libiri  (a  pound) ; 
so/Ul/is  (a  shilliufT)  ;  and  deiianiis  (a 
penny)  ;  through  the  Italian  lire  (2  syl.), 
soldi,  denari.  If  farthings  are  expressed 
the  letter  q  {qnadrans)  is  employed.  In- 
troduced by  the  Lombard  merchants, 
from  whom  also  we  have  Cr.  (creditor), 
Dr.  {debtor),  bankrupt,  do  or  ditto,  etc. 

La-dc-da.  A  yea-nay  sort  of  a  fel- 
low, with  no  backbone.  '■'■  I)a,^''  in 
French,  means  both  oui  aud  nenni,  as 


Old- da  (ay  marry),  Nenni-da  (no  for- 
sooth) . 

"  I  wish  tliat  French  brother  of  his,  the  P.irisian 
1.1-de-rta,  was  more  like  him.  inorenf  an  Ameri- 
can."—.1.  (;.  (lantrr  :  Bamn  J/odfc:,  hocik  jij.  8. 

La  Garde  Meurt  ne  se  Rend  pas. 

The  words  falsely  asciibed  to  General 
Cambronne,  at  the  battle  of  Waterloo ; 
inscribed  on  his  monument  at  Nantes. 

La  Joyeuse.  The  sword  of  Charle- 
magne.    (.Vcf  SWOED.) 

La  Muette  de  Portici.  Auber's 
best  ojiera.     Also  known  as  MamJiicllo, 

La  Roche  (1  syl.).  A  Protestant 
clergyman,  whose  story  is  told  in  The 
Jlirror,  by  Henry  Mackenzie. 

Lab'adists.  A  religious  sect  of  the 
seventeenth  centurj\  so  called  from  Jean 
Labadie,  of  Bourg  in  Guyenne.  They 
were  Protestant  ascetics,  who  sought 
reform  of  morals  more  than  refonn  of 
doctrine.  They  rejected  the  observance 
of  all  holy  days,  and  held  certain  mystic 
notions.  The  sect  fell  to  pieces  early  in 
the  eighteenth  century. 

Lab'arum.  The  standard  borne  be- 
fore the  Roman  emperors.  It  consisted 
of  a  gilded  .spear,  with  an  eagle  on  the  top, 
while  from  a  cross-staff  hung  a  splendid 
purple  streamer,  with  a  gold  fringe, 
adorned  with  precious  stones.  Constan- 
tine  substituted  n  crown  for  the  eagle, 
and  inscribed  in  the  midst  the  mysterious 
monogram.  (AW- Coxstantine's  Cross.) 
Rich  {Antu/uities,  p.  301)  says  "  pro- 
b;ibly  from  the  Gaulish  htb,  to  raise  ;  for 
Constantiue  was  educated  in  Gaul." 
The  Greek  laha  is  a  staff.  (See  Gibbon  : 
iJcclinv  and  Fall,  etc.  chap,  xx.) 

La'be  {Queen).  The  Circe  of  the 
Arabians,  who,  by  her  enchantments, 
transformed  men  into  horses  and  other 
brute  beasts.  She  is  introduced  into 
the  Arabian  Xifjhts^  Entertainments, 
where  Beder,  Prince  of  Persia,  marries 
her,  defeats  her  plots  against  him,  and 
turns  her  into  a  mare.  Being  restored 
to  her  proper  shape  by  her  mother,  she 
turns  Beder  into  an  owl ;  but  the  prince 
ultimately  regains  his  own  proper  form. 

Labour  of  Love  (A).  Work  under- 
taken for  the  love  of  the  thing,  without 
regard  to  pay. 

Labourer  is  Worthy  of  his  Hire. 

In  Latin  :  "■' l)i(/na  canis  pabulo.^'  '"The 
dog  must  be  bad  indeed  that  is  not  worth 
a  bone."  Hence  the  Mosaic  law,  "  Thou 
shalt  not  muzzle  the  ox  that  treadeth  out 
the  corn." 


>: 


^■t^ 


J 


