AN 

EXPLANATORY  AND  PEONOUNOlNG 

DICTIONARY   OF    THE    NOTED 
NAMES   OF   FICTION 

INCLUDING   ALSO 


FAMILIAR  PSEUDONYMS,  SURNAMES  BESTOWED  ON  EMINENT  MEN,  AND 

ANALOGOUS  POPULAR  APPELLATIONS  OFTEN  REFERRED 

TO  IN  LITERATURE  AND  CONVERSATION 


By  WILLIAM  A.  WHEELER 


WITH  APPENDIX  BY  CHARLES  G.  WHEELER 


So  eine  Arbeit  eigentlich  nie  fertig  wird ;  .  .  .  man 
sie  fiir  fertig  erklaren  muss,  wenn  man  nach  Zeit  und 
Umstanden  das  Moglichste  daran  gethan  hat. 

GOETHI. 


BOSTON   AND   NEW  YORK 

HOUGHTON  MIFFLIN  COMPANY 

(3Cbc  Riber^ibe  prw,  Cambriboe 


REFERENCE 
&  BIBLIOG. 

COPYRIGHT,  1 86s,  BY  WILLIAM  A.  WHEELER 
COPYRIGHT,  1889,  1893,  AND  IQI?,  BY  OLIVE  W.  WHEELER 

ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED  INCLtTOING  THE  RIGHT  TO  REPRODUCK 
THIS  BOOK  OR  PARTS  THEREOF  IN  ANY  FORM 


VNf3 

\A/0 

REFERENCE 
&  filBUOG. 


To 
RICHARD    SOULE 

AS 

A  TOKEN  OF  AFFECTIONATE  RESPECT. 


^ 


960354 


PREFACE  TO  NINETEENTH  EDITION. 


The  original  work,  now  freshly  offered  to  the  public,  was 
published  in  1865,  and  has  remained  since  that  date  the  author- 
ity in  the  department  which  it  occupies,  and  the  model  upon 
which  many  books  of  like  character  have  been  constructed.  It 
has  been  in  constant  demand,  and,  so  far  as  it  covers  literature 
up  to  the  date  when  it  was  first  compiled,  remains  practically 
complete.  A  quarter  of  a  century,  however,  adds  materially  to 
the  stock  of  fiction,  and  gives  opportunity  for  fictitious  charac- 
ters to  become  noted  and  familiar.  The  publishers  therefore 
have  deemed  it  proper  to  add  an  appendix  to  the  original  work, 
and  have  entrusted  the  preparation  to  the  competent  hand  of 
Mr.  Charles  G.  Wheeler,  a  nephew  of  the  editor  of  the  work, 
who  was  associated  with  his  uncle  in  compiling  the  companion 
volume  Familiar  Allusions. 

In  constructing  the  Appendix,  Mr.  Wheeler  has  kept  care- 
fully to  the  spirit  and  plan  of  the  original  work.  His  main  task 
has  been  to  glean  from  the  copious  literature  of  the  last  twenty- 
five  years  such  additions  as  seem  demanded  by  the  judgment  of 
readers  ;  but  he  has  also  taken  the  opportunity  to  supply  a  few 
omissions  in  the  original  work,  and  for  this  he  has  had  the  aid 
of  notes  left  for  the  purpose  by  the  late  Mr.  William  A.  Wheeler. 
The  new  edition,  therefore,  of  the  Dictionary  represents  the 
latest  and  most  thoroughly  ordered  survey  of  the  field  which  it 
occupies. 

Boston,  Aprils  1889. 


PREFACE. 


The  author  of  this  volume  contributed  to  the  edition  of  Web- 
ster's Quarto  Dictionary  published  in  18G4  a  "  Vocabulary 
of  the  Names  of  Noted  Fictitious  Persons  and  Places ; "  but 
the  present  work,  though  based  on  that  Vocabulary,  embraces 
a  wider  range  of  subjects,  contains  nearly  seventeen  hundred 
new  articles,  besides  important  modifications  of  many  of  the 
others,  and  is  furnished  with  an  orthoepical  Introduction,  and 
an  Index  of  the  real  names  of  persons,  places,  &c.,  whose  nick- 
names, pseudonyms,  or  popular  appellations,  are  given  in  the 
body  of  the  book.  Notwithstanding  the  great  pains  that  has 
been  taken  to  secure  fullness  and  minute  accuracy,  there  are 
undoubtedly  some  errors  and  numerous  omissions ;  but  no  more 
of  either,  it  is  hoped,  than  are  inseparable  from  a  work  of  such 
multiplicity.  And  although  a  casual  examination  or  closer 
scrutiny  may  bring  to  light  defects  of  both  kinds,  it  may  still  be 
affirmed,  that,  with  respect  to  a  very  large  class  of  names,  there 
can  nowhere  else  be  found  in  a  collective  form  an  equal  amount 
and  variety  of  information. 

The  main  design  of  the  work  is  to  explain,  as  far  as  practi- 
cable, the  allusions  which  occur  in  modern  standard  literature 
to  noted  fictitious  persons  and  places,  whether  mythological 
or  not.  For  this  reason,  the  plan  is  almost  entirely  restricted 
to  proper  names,  or  such  as  designate  individual  persons, 
places,  or  things.  The  introduction  of  appellative  or  generic 
names,  such  as  abbot  of  unreason^  lord  of  misrule^  kobold^  &c., 
as  well  as  the  explanation  of  celebrated  customs  and  phrases, 
such  as  flap-dragon^  idne-mevH s-morrice^  philosophy  of  the  Porch^ 
to  send  to  Coventry,  to  carry  coals  to  Newcastle,  &c.,  would  open 


VI  PREFACE. 

too  vast  a  field  of  inquiry  ;  and,  besides,  there  are  copious 
special  treatises  on  these  subjects  already  before  the  ])ublic,  as 
those  of  Brand,  Hone,  Pulieyn,  Tinibs,  and  others.  The  author 
has  been  urged  to  extend  his  plan  so  as  to  include  the  titles  of 
famous  poems,  essays,  novels,  and  other  literary  works,  and  the 
names  of  celebrated  statues,  paintings,  palaces,  country-seats, 
churches,  ships,  streets,  clubs,  and  the  like ;  inasmuch  as  such 
names  are  of  very  common  occurrence  in  books  and  newspa- 
pers, and,  for  the  most  part,  are  not  alphabetically  entered  and 
explained  in  Encyclopaedias,  Dictionaries,  or  Gazetteers.  That 
a  dictionary  which  should  furnish  succinct  information  upon 
such  matters  would  supply  a  want  which  is  daily  felt  by  readers 
of  every  class  is  not  to  be  doubted  ;  but  it  should  constitute  an 
independent  work.  A  manual  of  this  description  the  author 
has  for  some  time  had  in  preparation  ;  and  he  hopes  to  publish 
it,  at  no  distant  day,  as  a  companion  to  the  present  volume. 

The  names  from  the  Greek,  Roman,  Norse,  and  Hindu  My- 
thologies that  are  here  given,  are  concisely  treated,  mainly  with 
a  view  to  explain  frequent  allusions  in  the  poets  and  other  popu- 
lar writers,  and  for  the  benefit  of  mere  English  readers,  rather 
than  for  that  of  professed  scholars.  From  the  Rabbinical  and 
Mohammedan  Mythologies  have  been  taken  some  names,  which 
are  occasionally  made  the  subject  of  reference,  and  concern- 
ing which  information  is  not  readily  obtainable.  Prominence 
has  been  given  to  the  departments  of  Angelology,  Demon- 
ology.  Fairy  Mythology,  and  Popular  Superstitions,  which  afford 
many  of  the  most  important  names  in  Fiction.  Parables,  Al- 
legories. Proverbs,  and  Mediaeval  Legends  have  also  furnished 
a  considerable  number.  Ecclesiastical  History  contributes  the 
names  of  several  pseudo-saints,  and  other  imaginary  personages. 
In  the  Drama,  and  in  Poetry  —  including  the  various  kinds, 
Epic,  Romantic,  Narrative,  Comic,  &c.,  —  the  intention  has 
been  to  give  the  names  of  all  such  characters  as  are  familiarly 
referred  to  by  writers  and  speakers  at  the  present  day  ;  and, 
though  there  may  be  accidental  omissions,  it  is  hoped  that  under 
this  head  the  Dictionary  will  be  found  reasonably  complete. 


PREFACE.  Vii 

The  principal  deficiency  is  most  likely  to  exist  in  the  depart- 
ment of  Prose  Romance ;  for,  though  there  is  very  little  that  is 
fictitious  in  ancient  literature  which  is  not  included  in  ancient 
Mythology,  yet  the  field  of  research  continually  widens  as  we 
come  down  to  modern  times,  until  it  seems  to  be  almost  bound- 
less. In  fixing  the  limits  of  the  work,  the  consideration  which 
has  deternu'ned  the  admission  or  rejection  of  names  has  not 
been  the  intrinsic  merit  of  a  book,  or  the  reputation  of  its  writer, 
but  the  hold  which  his  characters  have  taken  upon  the  popular 
mind.  There  are  many  authors  of  acknowledged  genius,  and 
hundreds  of  clever  and  prolific  writers,  who  yet  have  not  pro- 
duced a  single  character  that  has  so  fallen  in  with  the  humor,  or 
hit  the  fancy,  of  the  time,  as  to  have  become  the  subject  of  fre- 
quent allusion.  The  English  romancers  and  novelists  whose 
creations  are  most  familiarly  known  and  most  firmly  established 
are  Bunyan,  De  Foe,  Swift,  Richardson,  Fielding,  Smollett, 
Sterne,  Goldsmith,  Scott,  Dickens,  and  Thackeray.  Many  of 
the  portraitures  of  these  writers  may  be  safely  presumed  to  be 
of  more  than  temporary  interest  and  importance.  In  regard  to 
other  and  minor  characters,  from  whatever  source  derived,  it  is 
to  be  borne  in  mind  that  a  dictionary  is  chiefly  designed  for 
the  use  of  the  existing  generation.  To  what  extent  names  of 
secondary  importance  should  be  included  was  a  question  diffi- 
cult to  determine.  Opinions  from  scholars  entitled  to  the  high- 
est consideration  were  about  equally  divided  upon  this  point. 
Some  favored  a  selected  list  of  the  most  important  names  only : 
others,  and  the  greater  number,  recommended  a  much  wader 
scope.  A  middle  course  is  the  one  that  has  been  actually  fol- 
lowed. It  is  evident  that  many  articles  which  may  seem  to  one 
person  of  very  questionable  importance,  if  not  wholly  unworthy 
of  insertion,  will  be  held  by  another  to  be  of  special  value,  as 
throwing  light  upon  passages  which  to  him  would  otherwise  be 
perplexing  or  obscure. 

This  Dictionary  is,  of  course,  chiefly  designed  to  elucidate 
the  works  of  British  and  American  w^'iters  ;  but  names  occur- 
ring in  the  literatures  of  other  modern  nations  have  been  in- 


^i  PREFACE. 

troduced  whenever  they  have  become  well  known  to  the  public 
through  the  medium  of  translations,  or  when  they  seemed,  for 
other  reasons,  to  be  worthy  of  insertion. 

In  accordance  with  the  plan  of  the  work  as  indicated  in  the 
title,  such  English,  French,  German,  and  other  Pseudonyms 
as  are  frequently  met  with  in  books  and  newspapers  have  been 
given  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  reader.  No  pretense,  how- 
ever, is  made  to  completeness,  or  even  to  fullness,  in  this  re- 
spect. The  bibliographer  will  find  here  little  or  nothing  that 
is  new  to  him ;  and  he  must  still  have  recourse  to  his  Barbier, 
Querard,  Weller,  and  other  writers  of  the  same  class.  Names 
like  Erasmus,  Melanchthon,  Mercator,  (Ecolampadius^  &c.,  as- 
sumed by  learned  men  after  the  revival  of  classical  literature, 
being,  in  general,  merely  the  Latin  or  Greek  equivalents  of 
their  real  names,  and  being  also  the  only  names  by  which  they 
are  now  known  in  history,  are  excluded  as  not  pertinent  to  the 
work.  For  a  similar  reason,  no  notice  is  taken  of  such  names 
as  Massena,  Metastasio,  Philidor,  Psalmanazar,   Voltaire,  &c. 

Many  eminent  characters  in  political  and  literary  history  are 
often  known  and  referred  to  by  the  surnames  and  sobriquets,  or 
nicknames,  which  they  have  borne  ;  as,  the  Master  of  Sentences, 
the  Scourge  of  God,  the  Stagirite,  the  Wizard  of  the  North,  the 
Little  Corporal,  &c.  "  Nicknames,"  said  Napoleon,  "  should 
never  be  despised  :  it  is  by  such  means  mankind  are  governed." 
The  Dictionary  embraces  the  more  important  of  these  ;  but 
names  like  Caligula,  Guercino,  Tintoretto,  &c.,  which  have  en- 
tirely superseded  the  real  names  of  the  persons  designated 
by  them,  have  not  been  regarded  as  properly  coming  within 
the  purview  of  the  present  undertaking.  Nor  has  it,  as  a  rule, 
been  thought  advisable  to  admit  simple  epithets,  such  as  the 
Sold,  the  Good,  the  Great,  the  Unready,  the  Courtier,  &c.,  the 
omission  of  which  can  hardly  be  considered  a  defect,  since 
their  signification  and  the  reason  of  their  imposition  are  usually 
too  obvious  to  excite  inquiry.  This  rule,  however,  has  not 
been  uniformly  observed.  Here,  as  elsewhere  in  the  work, 
that  discretionary  power  has  been  freely  fcxercised,  to  which 


PREFACE.  ix 

every  author  of  a  dictionary  or  glossary  is  fairly  entitled,  and 
which  he  is  often  compelled  to  use. 

A  considerable  space  has  been  allotted  to  familiar  names  of 
Parties  and  Sects,  of  Laws,  and  of  Battles  ;  to  poetical  and  pop- 
ular names  of  Seas,  Countries,  States,  Cities,  &c.  ;  to  ancient 
geographical  names  which  have  become  interesting  from  their 
revival  in  poetry  or  otherwise  ;  and  to  certain  long-established 
and  important  Personifications.  In  general,  nicknames  of 
Parties  and  Sects,  such  as  Chouans,  Ghibellines,  Gueux^  Method- 
ists,  Shakers,  &c.,  which  have  been  adopted  by  those  to  whom 
they  were  at  first  derisively  applied,  or  which  have  passed  into 
history  and  common  use  as  their  peculiar  and  appropriate 
names,  and  are  to  be  found  in  any  good  Encyclopaedia  or  Man- 
ual of  Dates,  are  designedly  not  included.  Most  of  the  his- 
torical by-names  inserted,  such  as  Day  of  Dupes,  Evil  May-day, 
Wonderful  Parliament,  Omiiihus  Bill,  Western  Reserve,  &c.,  are 
those  which  are  not  to  be  found  under  the  proper  heads  in 
Encyclopaedias  and  other  books  of  reference.  Popular  designa- 
tions connected  with  History  and  Geography  have  been  freely 
given  in  all  cases  where  they  seemed  to  be  well  settled,  and  to  be 
fitted  to  illustrate  past  or  contemporary  events  or  characters. 

A  slight  departure  from  the  strict  limits  of  the  plan  has 
been  thought  allowable  in  the  case  of  a  few  quasi-historical, 
or  real  but  obscure,  persons,  places,  and  things,  such  as  Owle- 
glass,  John  O  Groat,  Mrs.  Glasse,  the  Minerva  Press,  &c.,  which 
are  often  referred  to  in  literature  or  conversation,  and  of  most 
of  which  no  account  can  be  obtained  except  through  an  amount 
of  research  and  toil  hardly  possible  to  a  majority  of  readers. 

Illustrative  citations  have  been  copiously  given  from  no 
small  variety  of  authors  ;  and,  as  many  of  them  are  gems  of 
thought  or  expression,  it  is  believed  that  they  will  be  deemed 
greatly  to  enhance  the  value  and  interest  of  the  work.  Some 
of  them,  however,  have  purposely  been  taken  from  newspapers 
and  magazines  rather  than  from  the  classics  of  the  language,  in 
order  to  show,  by  such  familiar  examples,  the  popularity  of  the 
characters  or  other  creations  of  fiction  to  which  they  allude. 


«  PREFACE. 

There  are  also  some  quotations  which  serve  no  other  purpose 
than  that  of  justifying  the  insertion  of  names  whose  claim  to 
admission  might  be  thought  doubtful,  if  it  were  not  made  to  ap- 
pear that  they  are  referred  to  by  authors  "  known  and  read  of 
all  men."  It  will  probably  be  observed  that  Sir  Walter  Scott  is 
more  frequently  cited  than  any  other  single  writer  ;  the  reason, 
however,  is  not  that  his  works  have  been  examined  with  more 
care  or  to  a  greater  extent  than  those  of  some  other  writers,  but 
merely  that  he  abounds  more  than  most  others  in  allusions,  — 
often  remote  or  recondite,  but  almost  always  apt  and  suggest- 
ive, —  which  his  unusually  tenacious  memory  enabled  him  to 
draw  from  the  stores  of  a  vast  and  most  multifarious  reading. 

In  the  explanation  of  names,  statements  borrowed  in  great 
part  from  one  author  have  been  diligently  collated  with  other 
statements  derived  from  independent  and  often  widely  sepa- 
rated sources ;  and  they  have  been  freely  enlarged,  abridged, 
or  otherwise  modified,  according  to  the  necessity  of  the  case,  or 
as  would  best  subserve  the  purpose  of  the  work.  But  where 
the  information  required  has  been  found  already  stated  in  the 
best  way,  no  hesitation  has  been  felt  in  making  use  of  the  exact 
language  of  the  writer ;  and,  beyond  this  general  explanation, 
no  acknowledgment  of  indebtedness  seems  necessary. 

To  determine  the  pronunciation  of  proper  names  is  unques- 
tionably the  most  difficult  requirement  of  orthoepy  ;  and  little 
or  no  attention  has  hitherto  been  paid  to  the  pronunciation  of 
such  as  are  peculiar  to  the  literature  of  fiction.  In  the  absence, 
not  merely  of  a  trustworthy  guide,  but  of  any  printed  guide  at 
all,  the  author  may  sometimes  have  gone  astray  ;  but  he  has 
been  careful  to  avail  himself  of  all  the  information  he  could 
obtain.  In  particular,  he  has  made  a  thorough  examination  of 
such  of  our  vernacular  poets  as  are  esteemed  classics,  and  has 
occasionally  adduced  passages  from  their  writings  to  show  the 
accentuation  adopted  by  these  "  best  judges  of  pronunciation,'* 
as  Walker  styles  them  ;  or,  more  rarely,  to  show  the  sound  they 
assign  to  particular  letters  or  syllables.  If  the  decisions  or 
opinions  he  has  given  prove,  in  general,  to  be  well  grounded, 


PREFACE.  XI 

the  credit  will  not  be  wholly  clue  to  him,  since  he  has  often 
profited  by  the  advice  and  assistance  of  gentlemen  whose 
superior  opportunities  of  becoming  acquainted  with  the  best 
usage  both  at  home  and  abroad,  and  whose  critical  taste  and  fa- 
miliarity with  all  that  pertains  to  the  subject  of  orthoepy,  afford 
the  assurance  that  they  "  speak  scholarly  and  wisely."  To  indi- 
cate with  absolute  accuracy  the  peculiar  sounds  of  the  principal 
languages  of  modern  Europe,  including  the  English,  would  ne- 
cessarily require  an  extensive  and  elaborate  system  of  arbitrary 
phonic  signs ;  and  such  a  system  would  be  hard  to  understand, 
and  still  harder  to  remember.  It  has,  therefore,  been  deemed 
important  not  to  introduce  into  this  work  unnecessary  and  per- 
plexing discriminations  of  sounds  nearly  identical,  or  to  em- 
barrass the  inquirer  with  needless  intimations  of  a  pronunciation 
obvious  or  already  familiar  to  him.  Hence,  diacritical  marks 
are  sparingly  employed,  except  in  the  case  of  unaccented  vowels, 
—  which,  in  our  language,  are  often  of  doubtful  or  variable 
value,  —  and  except  also  in  the  case  of  foreign  sounds  which 
have  no  equivalent  in  English.  Although  the  system  of  nota- 
tion made  use  of  is  easy  to  be  understood,  so  far  as  it  applies  to 
most  English  names,  it  has  been  thought  desirable  to  prefix  to 
the  work  observations  on  some  points  of  English  pronunciation 
not  familiar  to  the  generality  of  readers,  or  concerning  which 
professed  orthoepists  differ.  In  regard  to  the  sounds  occurring 
in  the  work  that  are  peculiar  to  foreign  languages,  an  explana- 
tion is  given,  in  the  Introduction,  of  the  mode  of  their  organic 
formation,  or  of  their  position  and  relations  in  a  scientific  clas- 
sification of  spoken  sounds.  These  observations  and  explana- 
tions are  contained  in  distinct  paragraphs  or  sections,  consecu- 
tively numbered,  and  are  often  referred  to  from  the  words  in 
the  Dictionary. 

The  Index  at  the  end  of  the  volume  forms  the  counterpart 
of  the  Dictionary  proper,  and  will,  it  is  hoped,  prove  service- 
able by  enabling  an  inquirer  to  ascertain  at  once  the  distin- 
guishing epithet  or  epithets  borne  by  a  particular  person  or 
place  of  which  only  the  real  name  may  be  known  to  him. 


Xll  PREFACE. 

In  the  preparation  of  this  Dictionary,  the  wide  field  of  gen- 
eral literature  has  been  extensively  and  carefully  searched. 
Moreover,  use  has  been  made  of  a  large  number  of  works 
specially  devoted  to  the  various  branches  of  literary  history ; 
and  valuable  assistance  has  been  derived  from  the  principal 
Reviews,  and  the  published  writings  of  the  best  essayists.  Not 
a  few  noteworthy  names  and  facts,  incidentally  mentioned  in  the 
body  of  the  articles  of  Encyclopaedias,  Biographical  Dictiona- 
ries, Gazetteers,  and  other  works  of  reference,  but  not  treated 
in  alphabetical  order,  have  been  carefully  gleaned  from  such 
works,  which  have  been  systematically  searched  for  this  pur- 
pose. These  sources  of  information  are  altogether  too  numer- 
ous to  be  particularized  in  this  place,  while  to  specify  a  few  and 
make  no  mention  of  others  of  equal  importance  would  be  as 
unjust  as  it  would  be  unsatisfactory. 

The  author  would  return  his  sincere  thanks  to  the  many 
friends  who  have  contributed  in  different  ways  to  the  complete- 
ness and  accuracy  of  his  work.  Some  of  them,  whose  kind 
assistance  he  would  gladly  acknowledge,  he  regrets  that  he  is 
not  permitted  to  name ;  but  it  affords  him  unfeigned  pleasure 
to  be  able  to  mention  his  great  and  varied  obligations  to  Dr. 
Robley  Dunglison  and  Dr.  R.  Shelton  Mackenzie  of  Philadel- 
phia, Mr.  Charles  Folsoni  of  Cambridge,  Mr.  Samuel  Porter 
of  Hartford.  Mr.  Arthur  W.  AVright  of  New  Haven,  and  Mr. 
Loomis  J.  Campbell  of  Boston. 

Believing  that  the  successful  accomplishment  of  a  task  like 
the  present,  in  its  fullest  extent,  is  hardly  to  be  expected  of 
any  individual,  the  author,  in  conclusion,  would  ask  a  candid 
criticism  of  his  labors  ;  and  if  corrections  or  suggestions  from 
any  quarter  —  especially  suggestions  of  additional  names,  ac- 
companied with  explanations,  references,  or  citations  —  be  sent 
to  him  through  his  publishers,  they  will  be  gratefully  received, 
and  used  in  the  preparation  of  a  future  edition. 

i.MjA.iiui;i.,  ^lAAoaAciiUai-iXb,  UcLubtr  iJU,  1865. 


CONTENTS. 


PAOI 

KEY  TO  THE  SCHEME  OF  PRONUNCIATION,     .  xiv 
KEMARKS   ON    SOME   POINTS  OF  ENGLISH  OR- 
THOEPY,           xvu 

RULES  FOR   THE   PRONUNCIATION  OF  GREEK 

AND  LATIN  WORDS, xxi  to  xxiii 

Vowels, xxii 

CoNSOXANTS, xxii 

Accent, xxiii 

BRIEF    RULES   FOR  THE   PRONUNCIATION    OF 
THE    PRINCIPAL  MODERN  LANGUAGES 

OF  CONTINENTAL  EUROPE,        .        .        .  xxiii  to  xxxii 

Vowels, xxiii 

Diphthongs  and  Vowel  Combinations,        .        ,  xxv 

Consonants, xxvi 

Combined  Consonants, xxix 

Accent, xxxi 

EXPLANATION  OF  ABBREVIATIONS,  ETC.,        .  xxxiv 


A  DICTIONARY  OF   THE   NOTED  NAMES 

OF   FICTION,  ETC.,        .         .        .        .      1  to  398 


APPENDIX 399 

INDEX  OF  THK  REAL  NAMES  OF  PERSONS,  PLACES, 
ETC.,  WHOSE  NICKNAMES,  PSEUDONYMS,  OR 
POPULAR  APPELLATIONS,  ARE  GIVEN  IN 
THE    PRECEDING    DICTIONARY,  ...       427 


KEY 

TO   THE   SCHEME   OF   PHONUNCIATION. 


VOWELS. 

A,  a,  long,  as  in Ale,  fate,  great,  pray,  range,  taste.     [See  §  1.;]     | 

A,  a,  short,  as  in Add,  fat,  narrow,  raillery. 

A,  a,  as  in     Aerial,  Israel,  ciiaotic,  mortmain. 

A,  a,  hive  e,  as  in Air,  fare,  pear,  prayer,  scarce.     [See  §  3.] 

A,  a,  like  o,  as  in All,  broad,  haul,  walk, 

A,  i,  like  d>,  as  in  "Wan,  swallow,  quadrant. 

A,  a,  as  in  Arm,  aunt,  grass,  [Fr.]  pate  (pat).     [See  §  2.] 

A,  a,  as  in  [Ger.J  mann  (manj,  [Fr.]  pas  (pa). 

A,  a,  as  in  Beggar,  comma,  metal,  scholar. 

E,  e,  long,  as  in Eve,  mete,  beam,  ceil,  piece,  people. 

E,  6,  slwrt,  as  in End,  m6t,  h6ad,  heifer,  leopard. 

E,  e,  as  in  Eject,  appetite,  serenity,  strophe. 

E,  e,  like  «,  as  in Ere,  bear,  heir,  where.     [See  §  3.] 

E,  e,  like  T,  as  in   Err,  term,  servant,  defer.     [See  §  4.] 

E,  §,  like  o,  as  in  Eight,  inveigh,  prSy. 

E,  e,  as  in  Brier,  general,  robber,  sxiffer. 

I,  i,  long,  as  in  Ivy,  ice,  pine,  child,  aisle,  height,  tie. 

I,  I,  short,  as  in Ill,  inn,  pin,  lily,  guilt,  sieve. 

Ij  1)  as  i!i ; tdea,  diurnal,  triumphant. 

I,  i,  like  I?,  as  in Marine,  pique,  police,  ravine. 

I,  i,  like  ?,  as  in  Irksome,  fir,  girl,  virtuous.     [See  §  4.] 

I,  i,  as  in Elixir,  nadir,  tapir. 

O,  6,  l<mg,  as  in Old,  t5ne,  foe,  enow,  soul,  yeSman.     [See  §  5.] 

O,  6,  short,  as  in   Gdd,  on,  cot,  knowledg-e,  moral. 

O5  S.  as  in Obey,  borrow,  [Fr.]  homme  (6m).     [See  §  5.] 

0,  o,  like  o,  as  in   r)rb,  orde^,  georgic,  bought. 

O,  6,  like  00,  as  in Move,  prove,  shoe.  soup. 

O,  6,  like  M,  as  in   Come,  doe*?,  done,  blood,  touch. 

O,  6,  as  in [Ger.]  bose  (bo/za>,  [Fr.]  jeu  r/.ho).     [See  §§  43,46.] 

P,  0,  as  in Author,  carol,  ransom,  connect. 

"U,  n,  long,  as  in tTse,  cube.  tune,  lute,  feudal.     [See  §  6.] 

0",  u,  short,  as  in    tTs,  cub,  tiin,  hurry. 

U,  ft,  as  in   Hnite,  ague,  cunidity,  globule. 

C",  li,  like  o5,  as  in Triie,  ruin,  erudite,  virulent.     [See  §  6.] 


INTRODLCTION.  XV 

"Q,  %  like  (3&,  as  in F^li  Pyll»  P^sla,  ccflld. 

■&,  u,  as  in  tjrn,  fur,  furry,  incur,  purple.     [See  §  4.] 

ij,  ii,  as  in   [Ger.J  griin,  [FrJ  vue  (vii).      [See  §§  ti4,  51.] 

y,  u,  as  in Sulphur,  glorious. 

Y,  y,  lonr/,  as  in   Type,  fly,  style,  buy,  rye. 

■$■,  y,  sfiorf,  as  in Nj^-mpli,  lyric,  mythic,  symbol. 

Y,  y,  as  in  Typhoon,  hydraulic,  lyceum. 

Y,  y,  like  e,  as  in Myrrh,  myrtle,  syrt.     [See  §  4.] 

Y,  y,  as  in Martyr,  zephyr. 

7P.J  88,  like  e,  as  in Caesar  {long),  JEschylus  (short). 

CE,  oe,  like  e,  as  in Croesus  (long),  CEdipus  (short). 

E"W,  ew,  like  m,  as  in  . . .  Ewe,  dew,  few,  new  (=  n),  crew  (=6b). 

OI,  oi,  as  in Oil,  foible,  foist,  join,  loiter,  poignant. 

OY,  oy,  as  in Oyster,  boy,  employ,  joyous,  royal. 

OO,  do,  as  in Food,  noon,  mood,  doze. 

c5o,  dd,  as  in Fddt,  gdbd,  stddd,  woolly. 

6lJ,  6u,  as  in Ounce,  bcund,  house,  p6ut. 

OW,  6w,  as  in Owl,  n6\V,  tQwer,  vowel. 

CONSONANTS. 

9,  9,  as  in Cent,  9ity,  9yst,  a9id,  flac9id,  suc9ess. 

9,  c,  as  in ^^se?  coal,  cure,  flaccid,  success. 

CH,  9h,  as  in Chaise,  9hampagne,  ma9hine. 

CH,  ch,  as  in Chasm,  chaos,  character,  echo. 

CH,  ch,  as  in Chance,  cheer,  church,  teacher.     [See  §  8.] 

G,  g,  as  in  &et,  give,  tiger,  foggy. 

G,  g,  as  in Gem,  gender,  giant,  elegy. 

BE,  h,  as  in [Sp.]  Jorge  (hof^iia),  hijo  (ee'ho).     [See  §  60.] 

K,  k,  as  in  [Ger,]  ach  (%),  buch  (book).     [See  §  71.] 

K,  k,  as  in  [Ger.]  ich  (ik),  durch  (doork).     [See  §  71.] 

ii,!,  asin  [Sp.]  Uano,  (UVno),  [It.]  gli  (lee).     [See  §  82.] 

iS",  n,  as  in   [Fr.]  regne  (ran),  [Sp.]  noiio.      [Sec  §§  02,  78.] 

^,  ^,  as  in   [Fr.]  vin  (vaii),  [Port.]  vim  (vec").     [See  §  G2.] 

!N",  n,  like  r?//,  as  in Ink,  uncle,  anger,  anxiety,  larynx. 

NG,  ng,  as  in Singing,  hanger,  prolong,  young. 

PH,  ph,  asin Phantom,  philosophy,  seraphic. 

QU,  qu,  as  in Quantity,  queen,  quince,  banquet. 

R>  r,  as  in   [Fr.]  mer  (mef ),  [Sp.]  rata  (la^ta).     [See  §  64.] 

S,  s,  like  z,  as  in  Advise,  preside,  rose,  dismal,  spasm. 

"^H,  th,  as  in Faf&er,  fhen,  tTiis,  therefore,  smootTl. 

V,  V,  as  in   [^f^T-]  schwan  (phvan),  [Sp.]  cubo  (koo'vo).     [Se^ 

^VH,wh,asin When,  which,  while.     [See  §  11.]  §68.] 

^,  X,  like  r/z.  as  in E:^ample,  exemplary,  uxorious. 

ZH,  zh,  as  in Azure  (ii'zhoor),  usual  (ii^zhoo-a]),  vision  (vizh-'un). 


xvi  INTRODUCTION. 

^'^*  In  addition  to  what  appears  in  the  Ke}',  the  following  explanations  will  be 
needed  for  understanding  the  notation  made  use  of  in  this  Dictionary :  — 

Diacritical  marks  have  been  dispensed  with,  in  the  case  of  English  names, 
wherever  it  seemed  that  the  accentuation  and  the  division  into  syllables  would 
be  sulHcient  to  indicate  the  true  pronunciation  to  any  one  familiar  with  the  more 
general  and  connnonly-miderstood  principles  of  English  orthoepy;  but,  in  all 
exceptional,  doubtful,  or  dillicult  cases,  the  appropriate  marks  are  used.  Most 
of  the  names  from  modern  foreign  languages  are  respelt. 

In  combinations  of  vowels,  where  one  letter  is  marked,  it  is  to  be  taken  as 
representing  the  sound  of  the  combination,  and  the  letter  or  letters  which  are 
not  marked  are  to  be  regarded  as  silent;  as  in  yrdin^  deal,  seize,  tit,  dour,  yruup, 
jonrnty,  Jldio,  &c. 

The  combined  letters  ce,  n,  sci,  se,  si,  or  ti,  occurring  before  a  vowel  in  a  syl- 
lable immediateh'  preceded  by  an  accented  syllable,  are  generally  equivalent 
to  sh ;  as  in  o'cean,  sapona'ceous,  coer'ci'on,  magi''c/an,  an'c/ent,  gra't/ous, 
omni'science,  nau''seous,  tran's/ent,  pa'i/ence,  vexa'/<ous,  proba'iion,  &c.  But  if 
the  combination  si,  when  thus  situated,  is  at  the  same  time  preceded  by  a  vowel, 
it  has  the  sound  represented  by  the  digraph  zh  ;  as  in  eli'.s/on,  explo'ft/on,  suffu'- 
sion,  &c.  Such  syllables  are  not  usually  respelt,  as,  in  general,  they  will  naturally 
be  pronounced  correctly  by  an  English  speaker. 

In  respelling  for  pronunciation,  aw  and  e.e  are  often  used  instead  of  a  and  e 
respectively. 

In  the  notation  of  oH  and  oiv  (as  in  ounce,  owl),  the  mark  over  the  o  [~]  is 
intended  to  suggest  the  tirst  element  of  the  diphthong,  namely,  a  as  in  arm 
(marked  a),  and  the  circumflex  [^]  over  the  u  and  the  to,  to  indicate  the  second 
element,  namely,  u  as  in  true  (marked  u). 

The  sounds  represented  by  a,  e,  t,  o,  m,  y,  are  essentially  the  same  in  quality 
as  the  proper  long  sounds  of  these  vowels,  but  differ  in  quantity,  being  less  pro- 
tracted in  utterance.  In  respelling  foreign  names  for  pronunciation,  a,  e  (or  e), 
and  0,  are  generally  used  instead  of  «,  e,  and  o,  unless  a  full  accent  falls  upon 
the  vowel. 

The  marked  letters  a,  e,  i,  o,  u,  y^  represent  the  sound  of  "  the  neutral  vowel," 
or  u  as  in  m,  urn.  They  occur  only  in  unaccented  syllables.  Diacritical  signs 
placed  above  these  letters  are  intended  to  indicate  their  nonnal  or  theoretical 
vahie.  Thus,  S'dxd,  cymbal,  altar,  hillock,  lion,  sailor,  ballot,  confess,  would 
regularly  be  pronounced  s-il'ad,  cym'hal,  al't.nr,  hU'ldch,  li'on,  sniPw,  hnl'ldt, 
cdn-fess',  but  in  fluent,  and  particularly  in  colloquial,  utterance,  the  imaccented 
vowel  is  apt  to  suffer  a  corruption  or  change  of  its  distinctive  quality,  falling 
into  the  easier  sound  of  the  neutral  vowel,  so  that  the  actual  or  customary  pro- 
nunciation of  the  words  in  question  is  sal/wl,  cym^bul,  nl'tur,  hil'hick,  li'tm, 
snil'ur,  bal'lut,  cun-fess'.  They  may,  therefore,  be  printed  thui^:  —  sal' ad,  cym'- 
Hl,  al'tar,  Idl'ldcJc,  li'dn,  sail'or,  bnl'ldt,  cdn-fess'. 

The  letter  s  is  doubled,  in  the  orthoepical  respelling,  to  indicate  the  "sharp" 
or  hissing  sound  of  this  member  of  the  alphabet,  in  ca^es  where  a  single  s 
would   be   liable   to   be   pronounced  like  z;  as  expense  (eks-penssO- 

In  a  word  having  more  than  one  accent,  the  primary'  or  principal  accent  is 


INTRODUCTION.  XVli 

denoted  bra  hea%'A'  mark;  tlie  secondary^,  or  subordinate,  hy  a  lightor  mark;  as 
in  Ad'am'is'tor.  In  the  division  of  words  into  syllables,  these  marks,  besides 
performing  tlieir  proper  othce,  supply  the  place  of  the  hyphen. 

An  apostrophe  [ '  ]  is  used  in  the  respelling  of  certain  French  words  to  show 
that  an  unaccented  e  is  either  entirely  mute,  or  is  pronounced  with  the  briefest 
possible  sound  of  e-  in  her.  It  is  also  used  after  y^  in  some  cases,  to  denote  that 
this  letter  is  to  be  pronounced  with  its  consonant  sound,  as  in  ?/"•'/,  t/cs,  &c. 

A  tie  [^]  placed  over  two  or  more  vowels  denotes  that  they  must  be  pro- 
nounced without  an  obvious  separation  into  distinct  syllables ;  as,  Hduy  (a'ii^'). 

The  tigures  which  follow  some  of  the  names  in  the  Vocabulary  refer  to  cor- 
responding sections  in  the  following  "  Remarks  "  and  "  Rules." 


REMARKS  ON  SOME  POINTS  OF  ENGLISH   ORTHOEPY. 


§  1.  The  sound  of  a  in  ale^faie  (conmionly  called  "  long  n  "),  though  regarded 
by  many  writers  as  a  simple  element,  is  in  most  cases  diphthongal,  beginning 
with  a  sound  closely  resembling  that  of  the  first  v  in  tJitre^  but  shghtly  less 
open,  and  ending  with  a  brief  sound  of  e  in  me.  (See  §  3.)  This  final  e  sound 
is  usually  omitted  in  unaccented  syllables,  and  in  the  correct  pronunciation  of 
the  common  foreign  equivalent  of  a;  namely,  e  as  in  [Fr.]  bete,  nee,  [Ger.] 
ewiy,  &c.     (See  §  31.) 

A  (as  in  bath,  dance,  &:c.). 
§  2.  There  is  a  considerable  class  of  words  (chiefly  monosyllables)  ending 
in  aff^  aft,  ask,  asp,  ass,  ast,  with  a  few  ending  in  ance,  and,  and  a7it  (as  staff, 
graft  I  mask,  rasp,  fjlass,  hst,  lance,  command,  pant),  to  which  must  be  added 
castle,  advantafje,  half,  and  some  other  words,  in  the  pronunciation  of  which, 
usage,  both  in  England  and  America,  is  far  from  being  uniform,  some  speakers 
giving  to  the  vowel  the  full,  open  sound  of  a  in  far  (3),  and  some  the  abrupt, 
flat  sound  of  a  in  man  (a),  while  others,  seeking  for  a  compromise  between  these 
two  extremes,  either  slightly  shorten  the  a,  or  dwell  upon  the  a.  Of  these 
varieties,  the  first  and  second  {a  and  a)  are  much  the  most  common.  The 
drawled  d  was  never  more  than  a  temporary-  and  local  fashion,  which  —  ac- 
cording to  Smart  —  has  been  generally  laid  aside  in  England,  and  which  seems  to 
be  going  out  of  use  in  America,  in  those  parts  where  it  has  hitherto  prevailed. 
The  brief  ^,  —  improperly  styled  "intermediate," — though  recommended  by 
Worcester,  Goodrich,  and  some  other  orthoepists,  differs  so  slightly  from  the 
fuller  form  of  this  vowel,  that  the  distinction  attempted  to  be  set  up  is  practically 
a  nugatory  one.  Words  belonging  to  the  class  under  consideration  are  in  this 
Dictionary  marked  as  having  the  full  sound  of  a  in  far;  but  the  reader  is,  in 
everv  instance,  referred  to  this  section,  and  can  decide  for  himself  which  of  the 
sounds  here  described  he  will  adopt  in  his  own  practice. 
b 


xviii  INTRODUCTION. 

A,  ]§]. 
§  3.  The  sound  of  n  hoard  in  fnre,  lair,  &c.,  and  of  e  in  tliere^  heir^  &c.,  when 
these  words  arc  correctly  pronounced,  is  a  lengthened  form  of  the  e  in  //«-?,  or  of 
the  initial  element  in  long  n  {a  as  in  mate),  sounds  which  are  closely  allied,  and 
are,  by  some  writers,  regarded  38  identical.  Instead  of  this,  however,  many 
speakers  substitute  a  prolongation  of  the  a  in  mat,  —  a  mode  of  utterance  which, 
notwithstanding  its  trcquency  and  its  equal  gracefulness,  is  opposed  by  the  ma- 
jority of  cultivated  speakers,  including  most  of  the  orthoepists. 

E,  1,  U,  ■§-. 

^  4.  The  vowel  u  before  r,  in  such  words  as  urn,  fur,  fiirry,  incur,  incurring^ 
&c.  (sometimes  called  the  "  neutral  vowel,"  from  its  peculiarly  dull  and  indiscrete 
character),  is  very  common  in  English,  and  has  a  uniform  and  well-known  sound. 
According  to  the  common  practice,  both  in  England  and  America,  and  according 
to  most  writers  upon  the  subject,  the  vowels  e,  i,  and  y,  and  the  digraph  ta,  when 
similarly  situated,  have  precisely  the  same  sound.  But  some  speakers,  particu- 
larly among  the  more  refined  and  aristocratic  classes  of  English  society,  give 
them  a  different  and  peculiar  sound,  which  is  best  described  as  intermediate 
between  that  of  u  in  urn,  and  that  of  e  in  met,  being  less  guttural  than  the 
former,  and  less  palatal  than  the  latter.  This  "  delicacy  "  of  pronunciation, 
as  it  has  been  termed,  is  not  observed  in  unaccented  syllables,  or  in  "very 
common  words,"  even  by  those  who  are  tenacious  of  its  ol)servance  in  other 
cases.  In  this  work,  all  these  vowels  are  marked  in  the  same  Avay  (e,  t,  w,  y), 
but  the  reference-figure  appended  to  words  in  the  Dictionary  in  Avhich  they 
occur,  will  direct  the  reader  to  this  section,  that  he  may  not  be  left  in  ignorance 
of  the  fact  that  there  is  a  diversity  of  usage  in  their  pronunciation. 

o,  6. 

§  5.  The  sound  of  o  in  old,  note,  &c.  (commonly  called  "  long  o"),  though  by 
some  writers  regarded  as  a  simple  sound,  is  in  reality  diphthongal,  ending  in  a 
slight  sound  of  oo  in  fond,  or  in  foot.  The  initial  element  is  the  normal  o, 
intermediate  in  quality  between  nio  (as  in  S'tw)  and  do.  The  terminal  oo 
sound  is  usually  omitted  in  vmaccented    syllables. 

In  some  parts  of  America,  particularly  in  New  England,  it  is  very  common 
to  shorten  the  sound  of  long  o  in  certain  monosyllables,  and  in  the  accented 
syllable  of  some  other  words,  by  dropping  the  brief  final  element  which  properly 
belongs  to  the  vowel,  and  at  the  same  time  making  the  initial  element  slightly 
more  open  in  quality;  but  the  practice  is  an  unauthorized  provincialism.  This 
shortened  form  of  long  o  is  heard  in  the  words  home,  stone,  irhoUy,  Szc.  It  also 
occurs  in  some  foreign  languages.  As  it  differs  but  little  from  the  sound  of  un- 
accented o  (in  cnr'fio,  ech'o,  &c.),  it  is,  in  this  Dictionary,  represented  by  the 
same  diacritical  sign  (o). 

§  6.  The  sound  of  ?/  in  unit,  cube,  mute,  &c.  (commonly  called  "  long  «"),  is 
a  compound  sound  formed  of  consonant  y  as  the  initial  element,  and  the  oo  in 


INTRODUCTION.  xix 

food  as  the  final  element.  The  sound  of  consonant  y  is  distinctly  heard  -when 
u  (or  any  of  its  equivalent  digraphs)  makes  or  begins  an  initial  syllable  (as  in 
unite,  «.se)^  when  it  is  preceded  by  any  one  of  the  labial  or  palatal  sounds  7;,  b, 
m,  /,  t\  k,  f)  (as  in  putrid,  bu(/le,  music,  fudun,  \ntio  (=  vu),  cul/ic,  c/tdis) ;  and  when 
it  is  preceded  by  any  one  of  the  dental  sounds  d,  t,  I,  n,  th,  provided  the  preced- 
ing vowel  is  short  and  under  tlie  accent  (as  in  ed'ucnte,  rWuul,  sdl'utary,  mon'u- 
mtnt,  spdth'ulate).  But  when  it  is  preceded,  in  the  same  syllable,  by  any  one  of 
the  consonants  d,  t,  I,  n,  s,  th,  it  is  difficult  to  introduce  the  sound  of  y,  and  hence 
careless  speakers  omit  it  altogether,  saying  duoJc,  toob,  lout,  nood,  soot,  eni/ioosiasm, 
instead  of  dulce,  tube,  lute,  nude,  suit,  e7ithusinsui.  The  reason  is,  that,  after 
forming  these  dental  consonants,  the  organs  are  in  a  position  to  pass  directly  and 
easily  to  the  labial  00 ;  but  to  insert  the  palatal  y  before  the  00,  is  to  go  back 
from  a  medial  to  a  posterior  position  of  the  organs  before  proceeding  to  an 
anterior  position.  Although  the  tendency  to  get  rid  of  the  y,  in  such  cases,  is  a 
natural  and  legitimate  one,  it  is  only  so  far  yielded  to  by  the  best  speakers  as  to 
substitute  for  the  y  the  closely  related  element  short  i,  made  as  brief  as  possible, 
and  pronounced  in  the  same  syllable  as  the  00.  If,  in  similar  situations,  the  u  is 
preceded  by  the  sound  of  r,  sh,  or  zh,  it  takes  the  simple  sound  of  00  in  food ;  as, 
rule  (rool),  xrue  (troo),  virulent  (vir^oo-lent),  sure  (shoor),  azure  (a'zhoor). 
"VViien  preceded  by  ch  or  j,  the  practice  of  dilferent  speakers  varies,  some 
sounding  the  u  as  00,  others  as  1-60. 


§  7.  The  sound  of  h  in  hand,  heart,  &c.,  is  a  pure  aspiration  produced  by  an 
emission  of  breath  through  whatever  configuration  of  the  vocal  channel  may  be 
requisite  for  uttering  a  succeeding  vowel  or  semivowel,  the  organs  being  always 
adjusted  to  the  position  of  the  next  following  sound  before  the  h  is  pronounced. 
Yet  h  is  palpably  not  a  whisper  of  the  following  sound.  If  it  were  so,  a  Avhispered 
he  would  be  nothing  more  than  a  prolonged  whispered  e,  whereas  the  difference 
between  the  two  elements  is  very  marked,  and  is  felt  not  only  by  the  speaker, 
but  by  the  hearer  as  well.  Physiologically  considered,  h  is  formed  by  an  expul- 
sion of  unvocalixed  breath  through  the  glottis,  which  is  opened  wide  through  its 
whole  extent.  In  simple  Avhispering  of  the  vowels,  on  the  contrary,  the  vocal 
chords  are  brought  together,  —  approximated,  though  not  stretched,  or  but 
slightly  so,  —  and  the  breath,  in  passing  through,  is  thus  not  only  rendered  audi- 
ble, bat  acquires  a  peculiar  and  distinctive  quality,  which  approaches  in  a 
greater  or  less  degree  to  actual  sonancy. 

CH,  J. 

§  8.  The  digraph  ch  (as  in  church)  is  regarded  by  some  writers  as  repre- 
senting a  simple  sound;  but  most  orthoepists  consider  that  it  is  compounded 
of  <  and  sh.  Neither  view  is  quite  right,  nor  is  either  wholly  wrong.  In  forming 
ch,  there  is  an  attempt  at  blending  t  and  sh  in  a  single  sound,  the  result  of 
which  is  to  modify  the  former  of  these  elements  by  causing  it  to  be  produced, 
not  in  the  ordinary  wai'  with  the  tip  of  the  tongue  against  the  gum  of  the 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

upper  front  teeth,  but  with  the  fiat  surface  of  the  tongue,  near  the  tip,  applied 
within  the  dome  of  the  palate  at  the  point  wliere  a  slight  relaxation  of  the 
contact,  accompanied  with  an  emission  of  breath,  gives  rise  to  the  sound  of  sh. 
Considering  the  brevity  of  the  two  elements,  and  the  peculiar  closeness  with 
which  they  are  combined,  we  may  regard  ch  as  a  consonant  diphthong,  or,  as 
Miiller  expresses  it,  "only  one  whole  consonant"  consisting  of  "a  half  t  and 
a  half  s/t." 

The  sound  of  j  —  which  is  merely  a  vocal  ch  —  is  composed  in  like  manner 
of  a  modified  d  followed  by  zh. 

B. 

§  9.  According  to  many  English  orthoepists,  the  letter  r  has  two  distinct  though 
related  sounds,  —  the  one  a  dental  or  lingual  consonant,  formed  by  a  contact  of 
the  margin  of  the  fore  part  of  the  tongue  with  the  inner  surface  of  the  upper 
side  teeth,  the  tip  of  the  tongue  touching,  ornearly  touching,  the  gum  of  the  front 
teeth  with  a  slight  quivering  or  tremulous  motion  as  the  stream  of  intonated 
breath  flows  over  it,  heard  (1.)  when  this  letter  is  not  preceded  by  a  vowel,  as  in 
rose,  dream,  pray,  strike  ;  and  (2.)  when  it  is  placed  between  two  vowels  of  which 
the  former  is  short,  as  in  arid,  peril,  spirit,  cdral,  lyric,  sOrry  (=s6ry),  hurry 
(=hi5ry);  the  other  a  guttural  sound,  nearly  resembling  a  vowel,  formed  by  a 
slight  vibration  of  the  root  of  the  tongue  and  the  uvula,  heard  Avhen  the  let- 
ter r  occurs  before  any  consonant,  or  is  itself  the  final  consonant  in  a  word,  as 
m  pm^t,  verse,  mirth,  torn,  surf,  far,  nor,  slur.  In  the  first  case,  r  is  sometimes 
strongly  trilled  or  rolled  by  a  violent  emission  of  the  vocal  current;  but,  in 
ordinary  pronunciation,  the  sound  is  peculiarly  smooth  and  liquid,  and  any  de- 
cided vibration  of  the  tongue  is  laborious,  pedantic,  and  altogether  un-English. 

If  r  follows  any  one  of  the  vowels  a,  e,  I,  o,  u,  6b,  6u,  a  slight  sound  of  the 
neutral  vowel  {u  in  urn)  is  inserted  before  the  r,  forming  a  diphthong  with  the 
preceding  vowel,  or,  in  the  case  of  I,  u,  and  ou,  a  triphthong.  Thus,  care,  dear, 
unre,  more,  lure,  boor,  sour,  are  pronounced  ca'ur,  de^r,  wi'ur,  mo'ur,  lu'ur, 
boo^r,  soii'^ur.  In  English  usage,  the  r  is  thus  joined  to  the  preceding  vowel  iji 
all  cases  in  which  this  vowel  is  in  an  accented  syllable;  and  if,  at  the  same  time, 
fi  vowel  follows,  the  r  has,  according  to  some  orthoepists,  both  its  guttural  and  its 
lingual  sound;  as  in  vary  (var'y,  or  var'ry),  era  (er'a,  w  er'ra),  i^ry  (tor'y,  or 
tor'r}'),  burin  (bur'in,  or  bur'rin),  houri  (hoiir'i,  or  hour'ri),  &c.  In  the  United 
States,  this  mode  of  pronunciation  is,  for  the  most  part,  confined  to  words  ending 
with  r  or  re  preceded  by  one  of  the  above-mentioned  vowels,  and  to  the  deriva- 
tives of  such  words.  Thus,  dearest  (from  dear)  is  pronounced  dear'est,  or 
dear'rest;  boorish  (from  boor),  boor'ish,  07*  boor'rish;  sourer  (from  sour),  sour'er, 
or  sour'rer,  &c. ;  but  vary  is  va'ry ;  era,  e'ra;  tory,  to'ry,  &c.  The  Scotch,  on  the 
contrary,  preserve  the  vowel  pure  even  in  derivatives,  saying  dea'rest,  boo^rish, 
sou'rer,  &c.,  as  well  as  va-'ry,  e'^ra,  to-'r}^',  &c. 

It  must  be  observed  that  some  very  acute  and  eminent  phonologists  utterly 
deny  the  existence  of  the  alleged  double  pronunciation  of  r,  maintaining  that 
the  letter  has,  in  English  at  least,  one  unvaried  sound  in  all  situations,  produced 
between  the  tip  of  the  tongue  and  the   upper  gum.     Others  allow  that  when 


INTRODUCTION.  XXl 

T  is  preceded  by  a  long  or  full  vowel,  a  slight  guttural  vibration  accompanies  the 
lingual  articulation;  but  they  do  not  regard  this  modification  of  the  sound  as 
affording  sufticient  ground  for  its  discrimination  into  two  distinct  and  inde- 
pendent elements.  It  is  not  improbable  that  the  disagreement  of  authorities 
in  regard  to  the  precise  nature  of  the  "guttural  ?•"  is  owing,  in  some  measure,  to 
actual  ditlerer.ce  of  utterance. 

It  is  further  to  be  observed,  that,  in  the  best  style  of  pronunciation,  r  is 
never  silent ;  but  that,  when  it  occurs  after  a  vowel,  it  is  commonly  suppressed 
by  careless  or  uneducated  speakers. 

W,  T. 

§  10.  The  sounds  signified  by  w  and  t/,  when  these  letters  occur  at  the  be- 
ginning of  a  Avord  or  syllable,  as  in  woo^  ye^  &c.,  are  considered  by  some  writera 
to  be  identical  with  the  vowels  oo  and  e  respectively;  they  are,  however,  formed 
by  a  closer  approximation  of  the  articulative  organs,  which  destroys  the  pure 
vocality  of  the  voAvel  sounds,  and  gives  them  a  consonantal  or  semi  -  conso- 
nantal character.  They  are  not,  however,  perfect  consonants ;  for  it  is  impossible 
to  prolong  them,  and  the  attempt  to  do  so  results  only  in  the  production  of  the 
vowels  00  and  e. 

'WH. 

§  11.  The  digraph  rcTi  is  regarded  by  many  modem  orthoepists  as  repre- 
senting a  simple  elementary  sound,  which  is  the  surd  or  whispered  correspondent 
of  w.  Of  those  who  take  this  view,  some  say  that  the  sound  of  wk  is  followed 
by  that  of  lo ;  as  in  tclien  (wh-w-e-n):  others  assert  that  the  voice  is  not  heard 
until  the  following  vowel  is  commenced,  tchen,  for  example,  being  pronounced 
wh-e-n;  but  such  persons  wrongly  analyze  their  own  pronunciation.  The  com- 
mon opinion  is,  that  both  letters  of  the  digraph  are  pronounced  with  their  usual 
sounds,  only  in  the  reverse  order,  —  hw,  —  according  to  the  original  Anglo-Saxon 
orthography.  But  h-io  does  not  differ  from  wh-w,  h  being  an  emission  of  un- 
vocalized  breath  through  the  position  taken  by  the  organs  of  speech  in  forming 
the  next  following  element,  as  is  explained  in  §  7. 


RULES  FOR  THE  PRONUNCIATION  OF  GREEK  AND 

LATIN  WORDS. 

§  12.  The  established  English  pronunciation  of  Latin  w^ords  and  of  Latinized 
forms  of  Greek  words  is  confonned  to  the  general  laws  and  tendencies  of  the 
English  language.  Hence,  the  proper  position  of  the  accent  and  the  syl- 
labication  having  been  determined,  each  syllable  is  to  be  pronounced  according 
to  the  usual  powers  or  sounds  of  the  letters  in  English,  except  in  cases  specially 
provided  for  in  the  following  rules. 


Xxii  INTRODUCTION. 

Vowels. 

§  13.  (1.)  Any  vowel  at  the  end  of  an  accented  syllable,  and  e,  o,  and  u  at  the 
end  of  an  unaccented  syllable,  have  tlie  long  English  sound;  as,  Cd^to,  Ce'res^ 
MVdas,  Si'/lun^  Nii'mn^  Pe-li'dcs,  Ilu-mt'rus,  Lu-caOius. 

§  14.  (2.)  If  a  syllable  ends  with  a  consonant,  the  vowel  has  its  short  English 
sound;  as,  Bdl'bus^  Meni'non^  Mos'chus,  Piib'lius. 

Exception.  —  /.',  in  final  es,  has  its  long  sound;  as  in  Achilles  (a-kiPlez). 

§  15.  (3.)  A,  ending  an  unaccented  s^dlable,  is  sounded  like  a  in  comma;  as, 
Cre-u'sn^  A-ri'on. 

§  16.  (4.)  K  iinal  is  always  sounded;  as  in  Ih'be^  Pe-ncl'o-jye. 

§  17.  (5.)  The  diphthongs  ve.  and  ce  are  pronounced  as  e  would  be  in  the  same 
situation  ;  as,  Ccesar  (se'zar),  (Eno7ie  (e-no'ne),  Daedalus  (ded'^a-lus),  (Edipus 
(ed'i-pus). 

§  18.  (6.)  /,  ending  a  final  syllable,  has  its  long  English  sound;  as,  E-pig'o-ni. 
Ending  an  initial  unaccented  syllable,  it  has  in  some  cases  its  long  sound,  as  in 
Bt-n'nov^  1-u'lus ;  and  in  some  its  short  sound,  as  in  Ci-ilc'i-a^  1-ta'U-a.  In  all 
other  cases,  ending  an  unaccented  syllable,  it  has  its  short  sound ;  as,  Fd'bi-us. 

§  19.  (7.)    Y  is  pronounced  as  i  would  be  in  the  same  situation. 

§  20.  (8.)  When  «/,  ei,  vl,  and  yi,  not  initial,  are  followed  by  another  vovrel, 
and  take  the  accent  on  the  a,  e,  o,  or  y,  the  i  assumes  the  sound  of  consonant  y, 
and  the  vowel  before  it  has  its  long  somid;  as  in  Maia  (mii'ya),  Hyyeia  (hi-je^ya), 
Pomptius  (pom-pe'yus),  Latoia  (la-to'ya),  Harpyia  (har-ppya). 

Consonants. 

§  21.  (9.)  The  consonants  c  and  g  have  their  "  soft"  sound,  like  s  and  _/,  be- 
fore e,  t,  ?/,  CE,  and  (£  ;  before  o,  o,  and  m,  or  a  consonant,  they  have  their 
"hard"  sound;   as  in  cot,  go. 

ExcEPTiox.  —  When  g,  having  the  sound  of  y,  is  preceded  by  another  /7,  the 
former  of  the  two  is  suppressed,  or  may  be  said  to  coalesce  in  sound  with  the 
second;  as,  Aggenus  {a-je''nus). 

§  22.  (10.)  The  combination  ch  is  pronounced  like  k  ;  as,  Charon  (ka'ron). 

§  23.  (11.)  Each  of  the  three  consonants  c,  s,  and  f,  when  preceded  im- 
mediately b}'  the  accent,  or  itself  ending  an  accented  syllable,  and  followed  by 
in,  ie,  it,  io,  or  iu,  commonly  has  the  sound  of  sfi ;  as  in  Por'da  (por'shi-a), 
Cly'tie  (klish'i-e),  Hora'tii  (ho-ra-'shi-i),  Pho'clon  (fo'shi-on),  Cas'sius  (kash'i- 
us).  C  has  also  the  same  sound,  when  following  an  accented  vowel,  and  stand- 
ing before  eM  and  yo  ;  as,  Menm'cevs  (me-ne'she-us),  /S/'c?/wi  (sish'i-on). 

ExcEPTiox.  —  When  si,  immediately  preceded  by  an  accented  vowel,  is  fol- 
lowed by  a  vowel,  the  s  takes  the  sound  of  2/< ;  as  in  Ht'slod  (he^zhi-od). 
—  Though  not  properly  an  exception  to  the  rule,  it  ma}'  be  stated  that  zi  similarly 
situated  is  pronounced  in  the  same  manner  ;  as  in  Aly'zia  (a-lizh'i-a).  —  T, 
when  preceded  by  another  t,  and  commonly  in   the  termination   tlon,   has    its 

t)roper  sound  (heard  in  inp,  mat,  lkc.)\  as  m  Brui'ii-i,  Jre'ti-oii:  when  preceded 
)v  s  or  X,  it  has,  according  to  some  authorities,  the  same  sound;  according  to 
others,  the  sound  of  ch  in  church  ;  as  in  S<dltis'tius  {sa\-\us'ti-us,  or  sal-lus'chi-us}, 
Bex' tins   (seks'ti-us,  or  seks'chi-us),  &c. 

§  24.  (12.)  S,  -when  final,  if  preceded  by  e,  has  the  sound  of  z ;  as  in  i'er- 
iclu   (per'i-klez). 


INTRODUCTION.  XXill 

§  25.  (13.)  X,  ending  an  accented  syllable,  and  standing  before  i  followed  by 
another  vowel,  has  the  sound  of  ksh  ;  as,  Cinx'ia  (singk'shi-a). 

§  26.  (14.)  Combinations  of  initial  consonants  which  are  foreign  to  the  nature 
and  habits  of  our  language,  drop  the  sound  of  their  first  letter  or  digraph; 
as  in  Cmius  (pronounced  ne'yus),  CUsip/ion  (tcs/i-lbn),  Gimtho  (uu'tho),  Mntmos- 
yne  (ne-mos'i-ne),  Pnyiagoras  (ni-tag'o-ras),  Psyche  (si'ke),  Ptoltiny  (toPe-me), 
Phthas   (thas). 

§  27.  (15.)  The  terminations  mis  and  mis  are  always  to  be  pronounced  in 
two  syllables;  as,  Archda'us^  Alcin'o-us. 

§  28.  (16.)  The  termination  e?<s,  in  proper  names  which  in  Greek  end  in 
n)f,  as  Orjiheus^  Promtf/iens,  &c.,  should  be  pronounced  in  one  syllable,  the 
eu  being  a  diphthong  with  the  sound  of  "longM." 

Accent. 

§  29.  (17.)  Words  of  two  syllables  invariably  have  the  accent  on  the  first 
syllable.  In  words  of  more  than  two  syllables,  if  the  penult  is  long  in  quantity, 
it  takes  the  accent;  but,  if  short,  the  accent  is  on  the  antepenult.  When  the 
penult  is  common,  or  doubtful,  the  accent  is  on  the  antepenult. 

4®="  By  quantity,  in  Greek  and  Latin,  is  meant  the  relative  time  occupied  in 
pronouncing  a  syllable,  trhtn  tlmse  IniKjiKUjts  wtre  spoken  tonr/ues.  A  syllable 
containing  a  short  vowel  may  be  lengthened  by  accompanying  consonants ;  but 
the  ancients  seem  to  have  felt  the  etlect  of  these  only  when  final,  and  to  have 
made  no  account  of  initial  consonants  —  probably  because  they  pronounced  them 
Avith  extreme  brevity  —  in  estimating  the  duration  of  a  syllable.  The  general 
rules  in  relation  to  quantity  are  as  follows: — 1.  IJefore  j,  x,  2,  or  any  two 
consonants  except  a  mute  followed  by  /  or  r,  the  vowel  of  the  peinilt  is  loncj  by 
position.  [This  is  the  language  of  the  grammarians :  the  niird,  in  such  cases, 
was  probably  short  or  stopped;  but  the  syH'ibh.  was  long,  being  made  so  by  the 
following  consonant  or  consonants.]  The  digraphs  ch,  ph.,  rh,  and  /A,  which  rep- 
resent simple  sounds,  are  reckoned  as  single  consonants.  2.  A  vowel  before  a 
mute  and  /  or  /•  is  common ;  that  is,  either  long  or  short.  3.  Diphthongs  are  long. 
4.  A  vowel  before  another  vowel  or  //  is  short.  In  other  cases,  the  f|uantity  must 
be  detemiined  by  etymology,  metrical  usage,  or  the  orthography  of  the  word  in 
Greek;  but  every  vowel  which  cannot  be  proved  to  be  long,  is  arbitrarily 
assumed  to  be  short.  —  The  division  of  words  into  syllables  —  which  depends  in 
part  upon  the  position  of  the  accent,  and  this,  in  turn,  upon  quantity  —  must  be 
understood  before  words  can  be  correctly  pronounced.  The  rules  in  regard  to 
this  subject  may  be  found  in  any  good  Latin  grammar. 


BRIEF    RULES 


FOR  THE  PRONUNCIATION   OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  MODERN   LANGUAGES   OF 
CONTINENTAL  EUROPE. 


Vowels. 
§  30.  (1.)  In  the  languages  of  the  ('ontinent  of  Europe,  the  vowel  o,^  when  long, 
has  usually  the  sound  of  the  English  a  in  f'n\  fiiher;  when  short,  ncarl_v  that 


xxiv  INTRODUCTIOX. 

of  a  in  yVrf,  manf  never  tliat  of  a  in  ^fate.  A,  in  French,  has  a  poimd  rcpcmbling 
that  of  a  mfar,  but  deeper  and  less  distinct,  verging  toward  that  of  a  in  all:  its 
peculiar  quality  is  due  to  the  retraction  of  the  tongue  and  the  soft  palate.  A 
briefer  variety  of  the  same  sound  is  heard  in  the  Fr.  pns^  Ger.  mnnn.  In  Hun- 
garian, a  is  like  o  in  iv>t;  a,  like  a  in  far.  J[,  in  Swedish,  has  a  sound  intermediate 
between  that  of  a  in  a//,  and  that  of  o  in  nvtt.  For  the  sounds  of  «,  a,  a,  see 
§§  37,  62. 

§  31.  (2.)  JE"  generally  has  a  sound  similar  to  that  of  "long  a"  in  _/ofe,  but 
ofteu  like  that  of  "  short  e  "  in  met^  or  like  the  latter  when  protracted.  (See  §  1.) 
/-",  in  French,  has  the  sound  of  e  in  ^Aen,  or  that  of  the  initial  element  in  Tuate 
(see  §  1);  e  and  c  have  the  sound  of  the  first  e  in  tlnre ;  e  (unaccented)  is,  in 
most  cases,  either  entirely  silent,  or  has  a  very  brief  sound  of  the  neutral  vowel 
(u  in  up,  U7'n).  E,  in  Swedish,  when  long,  has  a  sound  somewhat  like  that  of 
short  i  {in- jiin),  but  more  prolonged;  when  short,  it  is  like  e  in  77iet.  In  Hun- 
garian and  Polish,  e  (unaccented)  sounds  like  e  in  met;  e  nearly  like  a  in  7nate. 
For  the  sounds  of  e,  e,  see  §  62. 

§32.  (3.)  /  has  usually  the  sound  of  i  in  marine,  which  is  the  same  as  the 
"long  e"  in  me,  she,  &c.  It  is  often  sliortened  in  quantity,  like  the  e  in  bemoan, 
but  the  quality  of  the  sound  remains  the  same,  and  should  not  be  suffered  to 
degenerate  into  that  of  i  in  ill.  This  latter  sound,  however,  is  heard  in  Dutch, 
and  sometimes  in  Gennan.  In  Hungarian,  i  and  i  differ  only  in  length,  the 
accented  voAv^el  being  more  protracted  than  the  unaccented. 

§  33.  (4.)  0  has,  for  the  most  part,  the  same,  or  nearly  the  same,  sounds 
that  it  has  in  English  in  the  words  iwte,  not,  north.  (See  §  5.)  It  some- 
tnnes  —  as  in  the  It.  rolpe  —  has  a  sound  intennediate  between  that  of  o  in 
note  and  that  of  oo  mfood.  This  is  called,  in  Italian,  "o  chiuso.''''  The  "o 
aperto'"  of  the  same  language  is  a  sound  intermediate  between  the  o  of  note 
and  that  of  noi'th.  In  Swedish  and  Norwegian,  at  the  end  of  a  syllable,  o  has 
the  sound  of  oo  or  of  do.  0,  in  French,  has  always  the  full  sound  of  "  long  o  " 
in  English.  In  Hungarian,  o  is  nearly  like  long  o  in  English;  6  has  a  fuller 
and  deeper  sound.  In  Polish,  o  sounds  like  o  in  note;  6,  like  oo  in  food,  or 
in  foot.     For  the  sound  of  t>,   see  §  46. 

§  34.  (5.)  U,  in  most  of  these  languages,  has,  when  long,  the  sound  of  u  in 
true  (equivalent  to  the  oo  in  food);  when  short,  that  of  u  in  full  (equivalent  to 
the  do  in  foot).  In  French,  —  and  also  in  Dutch,  when  at  the  end  of  a  syllable, — 
it  has  a  sound  intermediate  between  oo  and  (".formed  by  attempting  to  pronounce 
these  sounds  simultaneously,  the  lips  being  placed  in  the  position  for  uttering  oo, 
and  the  tongue  in  that  for  e.  The  sound  is  sometimes  long  and  sometimes  short, 
but  the  difference  is  merely  one  of  quantity.  In  Dutch,  ti,  when  short  or  stopped, 
is  sounded  as  in  nut.  U,  in  Swedish,  is  intermediate  between  I  and  oo,  but  is  a 
pinched  and  very  peculiar  sound,  diflering  considerably  in  its  effect  upon  the  ear 
from  that  of  the  French  w,  the  lips  being  rounded  instead  of  pouted.  The  near- 
est equivalent  in  English  is  oo.  In  Hungarian,  u  (unaccented)  has  the  sound 
of  do;  li,  a  longer  and  fuller  sound  of  the  same  general  quality.  For  the  sound 
of  ti,  see  §  51. 

§  35.  (6.)     Y,  for  the  most  part,  has  the  same  sound  that  i  has;  that  is,  it  is 


INTRODUCTION.  xxv 

like  "long  e"  in  English.  (See  §  32.)  In  Dutch,  it  has  the  sound  of  the  Eng- 
lish "longi"  (t  in  pine);  but  in  the  modern  Dutch  orthography  it  is  replaced  by 
ij.  In  Danish,  Norwegian,  and  Swedish,  it  is  like  the  French  and  Dutch  u,  or 
the  German  it.     (See  §  34.) 

Diphthongs  and  Vowel  Combinations. 

§  36.  (7.)  Aa,  in  most  languages,  has  the  same  sound  as  single  «,  —  that  is, 
the  sound  of  a  in /"ar,  —  but  is  more  prolonged.  In  Danish,  it  sounds  nearly 
as  a  in  o//,  but  verges  towards  the  sound  of  o  in  note. 

§  37.  (8.)  Ae,  or  o,  when  long,  is  usually  sounded  like  a  in  J'ate,  or  the  first  c 
in  there;  Avhen  short,  like  e  in  met.  (See  §  1.)  In  Dutch,  it  is  like  a  in  far; 
but  the  reformed  Dutch  orthography  substitutes  aa  for  ae. 

§  38.  (9.)  Ae2t,  or  dii,  in  German,  has  the  sound  of  oi  in  toil,  but  is  differ- 
ently pronounced  in  different  parts  of  Germany. 

§  39.  (10.)  Ai  and  ay  are  generally  sounded  like  the  English  adverb  ay  (yes); 
but  in  French  they  have  nearly  the  sound  of  a  in  J'ate,  or  e  in  there.     (See  §  1.) 

§40.  (11.)  Eau,  in  French,  has  the  same  sound  as  the  French  au ;  that  is, 
^f  the  English  "long  o." 

§41.  (12.)  Ee  has  a  prolonged  sound  of  the  foreign  e,  Avhich  is  nearly 
equivalent  to  the  English  a  in  fate.     (See  §  31.) 

§42.  (13.)  Ei  and  ey  are  generally  like  ay  in  day,  when  this  word  is  pro- 
nounced with  the  full  diphthongal  sound  of  the  vowel.  In  French,  they  have  a 
more  open  sound,  resembling  that  of  e  in  met,  or  that  of  a  in  mate  with  the  ter- 
minal element  of  the  a  omitted.  (See  §  1.)  In  German  and  Danish,  they  are  like 
the  English  adverb  ay  (yes);  that  is,  they  unite  the  sounds  of  a  in  far  and  i  in 
ill,  and  hence  nearly  resemble  our  "long  i." 

§  43.  (14.)  Eio,  in  French  and  Dutch,  has  —  with  some  variations  of  quantity, 
and  some  slight  differences  of  quality  —  a  sound  similar  to  that  of  u  in  urn,  but 
more  accurately  described  as  intermediate  between  the  a  in  mate  and  the  o  in 
note,  and  formed  by  an  attempt  to  pronounce  these  vowels  simultaneously.  (See 
§  46.)  Eu,  in  Gennan  and  Danish,  sounds  like  oi  in  toil.  In  Italian,  Spanish, 
and  Portuguese,  it  is  equivalent  to  d^oo. 

§44.  (15.)  le  usually  sounds  like  e  in  me,  but,  in  German,  it  sometimes 
makes  two  syllables,  and,  in  French,  before  r  final,  forms  a  diphthong  which 
is  pronounced  e-a. 

§45.  (16.)  li  is  equivalent  to  i  —  that  is,  to  the  English  "long  e,"  as  in 
me  —  prolonged. 

§46.  (17.)  Oe,  or  0  (in  Dan.  0),  in  the  Gennanic  languages,  is  essfn^iVf//?/ the 
same  as  eu  in  French  (see  §  43),  though  most  authorities  recognize  a  slight 
ditterence  of  quality  between  the  two  sounds,  6  inclining  more  to  the  sound 
of  d,  and  having  the  lips  more  pursed  up  for  its  utterance,  than  eu.  The  u  in 
iirn  is  the  nearest  English  approximation  to  both.  In  Hungarian,  t  or  '6  is 
merely  a  longer  variety  of  o. 

§47.  (18.)  Qai,  in  French,  is  like  eu  in  the  same  language.     (See  §  43.) 

§48.  (19.)  Oi,  in  French,  sounds,  in  most  words,  nearly  like  wa  in  was.  In 
some  words,  it  formerly  had  the  sound  now  given  to  ai,  by  which  it  is  replaced 


XXVI  INTRODUCTION. 

in  the  modem  F/onch  spelling.  Oi,  in  Danish,  is  like  win  English;  0i  \s 
o'e,  with  the  o  short,  or  brief. 

§  49.  (20.)  Oo,  has  the  sound  of  oo  in  door,  or  o  in  note,  somewhat  prolonged, 
and  without  the  linal  element  of  this  sound  in  English. 

§50.  (21.)  Oil,  in  Froneh,  when  long,  is  like  vo  in  food;  when  short,  like 
00  in  foot.  In  Dutch  and  Norwegian,  it  has  the  sound  of  ou  in  the  English 
word  out.     In  Portuguese,  it  is  usually  pronounced  like  the  English  "  long  c»." 

§  51.  (22.)  Ue,  or  u,  in  the  Germanic  languages,  is  sounded  like  the  French  it 
\See  §  34.)     In  Hungarian,  u  or  u  is  merely  a  longer  variety  of  it. 

§  52.  (23.)    Ui  and   iiy,  in  Dutch,  resemble  oi   in  English. 

§  53.  (2-i.)    Uu  is  like  oo  m  food,  but  longer. 

Consonants. 

§  54.  (25.)  B,  in  German  and  Danish,  at  the  end  of  a  word,  sounds  like  /> 
In  Spanish,  between  two  vowels,  its  sound  is  intermediate  between  those  of  th| 
English  b  and  w,  and  may  be  described  as  a  v  made  without  the  aid  of  th< 
teeth,  but  with  the  lips  alone,  which  are  pouted  and  brought  flatly  and  feeblv 
into  contact. 

§  55.  (20.)  C,  in  Italian,  before  e  and  i,  sounds  like  ch  in  cJairch ;  in  Spanish, 
in  the  same  position,  like  th  in  thin  (though  in  Catalonia  and  in  Spanish 
America  it  has  the  sound  of  s).  In  German  and  Danish,  before  e,  i,  y,  d,6  (0),  u, 
or  a  diphthong  commencing  with  any  one  of  these  letters,  and  in  Polish  in  all 
positions,  it  is  pronounced  like  ts.  C,  in  Polish,  blends  the  sounds  of  ts  and  con> 
sonant  y.  (Compare  §  7-i.)  ^,  in  French  and  Portuguese,  sounds  like  s,  before 
a,  0,  and  u. 

§  56.  (27.)  D,  in  German,  Dutch,  and  Swedish,  at  the  end  of  a  word,  sounds 
like  t;  in  Spanish  and  Danish,  when  occurring  between  two  vowels,  or  at  the 
end  of  a  word,  like  th  in  this,  but  it  is  very  gently  pronounced,  so  as  some' 
times  scarcely  to  be  audible. 

§  57.  (28.)  F,  in  Swedish,  at  the  end  of  a  word  or  s^dlable,  sounds  as  e 
does  in  English. 

§  58.  (29.)  G  is  always  "hard"  before  o.o,  u,  as  it  is  in  the  English  words 
gain,  gold,  gust.  In  Polish,  it  is  hard  in  all  situations ;  so  also  in  Hungarian, 
unless  followed  by  /  or  y.  (See  §§  76,  79.)  In  French,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese, 
before  e,  i,  and  y,  it  is  like  the  j  of  these  languages.  (See  §  60.)  In  Italian,  in 
the  same  position,  it  is  like  the  English  j,  that  is,  like  g  in  geiii.  (See  §  8.)  In 
Gennan,  the  standard  and  best  pronunciation  makes  g  "  hard  "  in  every  case 
when  it  is  followed  by  a  vowel  in  the  same  word :  but  when  preceded  and  not  foU 
lowed  by  a  vowel,  it  has  the  sound  of  the  Gennan  ch.  (See  §  71.)  In  Dutch,  </, 
in  all  positions,  has  a  harsh  guttural  sound,  which  is  the  sonant  or  vocalized  cor' 
respondent  of  the  German  guttural  ch.  (See  §  71.)  In  Swedish,  before  e,  i,  y,  d, 
and  0,  and  when  preceded  by  any  other  cons<mant  than  n,  it  sounds  like  tha 
English  consonar.t  y;  in  Danish,  at  the  end  of  a  word,  its  sound  is  very  soft, 
somewhat  rcscniltling  that  of  h.  —  Gu,  in  French,  S]iaiiish,  and  Portuguese, 
before  e  and  i,  sounds  like  gu  in  gnist,  guile,  the  u  being  inserted  to  keep  the  g 
in  its  hard  sound  before  these  vowels. 


INTRODUCTION.  xxvil 

§59.  (30.)  //,  in  French,  Italian,  Spanish,  and  Portup^uese,  is  either  wholly 
mute,  or  is  very  feebly  aspirated.  In  the  reniainuig  languages  of  Continental 
Europe,  it  sounds  as  in  English.  In  all  of  them,  it  is  mute  when  it  follows  a  vowel 
in  the  same  syllable,  its  office  being  merely  to  show  that  the  vowel  has  its  long 
Bound.  In  Polish,  h  is  very  harshly  aspirated,  resembling  k^  or  the  German 
guttural  ch.     (See  §  71.) 

§60.  (31.)  J,  in  German,  Dutch,  Danish,  Norwegian,  Swedish,  Polish,  and 
Hungarian,  has  the  sound  of  the  English  ^consonant.  In  Italian,  it  has  rather 
the  sound  of  "  long  e."  In  French  and  Portuguese,  it  has  the  sound  orthoepieally 
represented  by  zh ;  that  is,  of  s  in  treasure,  or  z  in  azure.  In  Spanish,  it  has  a 
very  peculiar  sound,  somewhat  resembling  that  of  a  strongly  aspirated  //,  and 
this  is  substituted  for  it  in  Spanish  America.  "  To  pronounce  it,"  says  Ellis, 
"the  back  of  the  mouth  must  be  stopped  by  doubling  up  the  back  of  the 
tongue,  and  making  an  effort  as  if  to  hawk  up  phlegm,  the  scrape  being  in  the 
palate,  and  nut  in  the  phaiynx."  It  is  most  nearly  allied  to  the  German  palatal 
cfi,  but  must  not  be  confounded  with  it,  nor  with  sh,  h,  or  the  guttural  ch. 

§  61.  (32.)  L,  in  French,  in  the  teniiinations  ble,  nle,  pie,  &c.  (as  in  table, 
branle,  simple),  is  colloquially  whispered,  but  in  serious  or  careful  discourse,  it 
has  its  usual  vocal  sound,  and  is  followed  by  a  faint  somid  of  the  neutral  vowel 
(m  m  up,  urn).  £,  in  Polish,  has  a  peculiar,  thick  sound,  formed  by  placing  the 
under  side  of  the  tip  of  the  tongue  finnly  against  the  back  of  the  upper  front 
teeth,  or  the  upper  gum. 

§  62.  (33.)  M  and  n,  in  French  and  Portuguese,  when  final  in  a  word  or 
syllable,  and  also  when  not  doubled  or  not  followed  by  a  vowel,  have  no 
sound  of  their  own,  but  are  mere  diacritical  letters,  or  signs,  serving  to  show 
that  the  preceding  vowel  is  nasal,  that  is,  pronounced  by  opening  the  back 
nostrils  and  allowing  the  voice  to  enter  the  nose  simultaneously  with  its  passage 
through  the  mouth.  The  nasal  vowels  in  French  are  as  follows :  — 
1.  2.  3.  4. 

am,  an)      -n     im,  in,  (o)in]  om,  onJ^gn      urn,  un    I      w^ 

em,  en  )  aim,  ain  I     ^^^        aun     )  eum,  eun  j 

eim,  ein  f 
(i)enj 
In  pronouncing  these  sounds,  there  must  be  no  contact  of  the  tongue  and  the 
soft  palate,  as  in  forming  the  sound  of  nf/  in  English.  By  some  phonetists, 
the  first  of  these  nasal  vowels  is  regarded  as  corresponding  to  the  pure  oral 
vowel  in  far ;  In^  others,  to  that  in  not ;  but  these  two  sounds  are  closely  re- 
lated, the  brief  open  o  of  not  [o]  being  intermediate  between  the  a  oi  far  (a)  and 
the  o  of /or-  (o,  a,  or  aw),  and  hence  differing  but  little  from  a  shortened  form  of 
the  open  a.  There  is  disagreement,  also,  as  to  the  quality  of  the  third  nasal 
vowel,  some  referring  it  to  the  o  in  note,  or  to  its  briefer  form  as  heard  in  the 
New  England  pronunciation  of  whole,  only,  &c.  (as  is  done  in  this  work);  while 
others  think  that  it  corresponds  to  the  o  in  form,  north,  &c.  In  Portuguese, 
the  nasality  of  a  vowel  is  sometimes  indicated  by  the  sign  "^  (originally  a 
superposed  m)  placed  ov^er  it.  The  combinations  representing  nasal  vowels  are 
a,  art,  am,  an  (pnjn.  a^);  em,  en  (pron.  a");  im  (pron.  e'*);  d,om,on  (pron. 
S");  w»,  w/i  (pron.   tJu").     Nasal  diphthongs  are  rle,  rti,  ao,  oe.     The  terminations 


xxviu  INTRODUCTION. 

des,  oes,  were  formerly  •written  aens,  oens.  The  nasal  vowels  d^  and  a"  occur  in 
Polish,  in  which  language  they  are  written  «,  e.  —  J/,  in  conversational  French, 
is  whispered,  and  not  vocalized,  in  such  words  as  schlsmt  ;  but,  in  formal 
delivery,  it  has  its  usual  vocal  sound,  followed  by  an  indistinct  murmur  of  the 
mute  e.  —  iV  before  (/,  in  Italian,  usually  preserves  its  pure  sound;  in  the  othei 
Continental  European  languages,  or  in  most  of  them,  it  takes  the  sound  of  the 
English  n  in  sink.  —  N,  in  Spanish,  is  a  variety  of  n,  formed  by  an  attempt  to 
pronounce  n  and  consonant  y  simultaneously.  The  same  is  true  of  the  Polish  n. 
The  eflect  is  verj'  similar  to  that  produced  by  the  insertion  of  y  after  7i ;  as  in 
minion  (min'yun).     (Compare  §  7-i.) 

§  63.  {'34:.)  Qu,  in  Spanish  and  Portuguese,  when  followed  by  e  or  i,  has  the 
sound  of  k ;  in  other  situations,  that  of  kob.  In  French,  the  combination  has 
the  sound  of  k  before  every  vowel.  In  German  and  Dutch,  it  is  sounded  as  kio 
would  be  in  those  languages.  (See  §  68.)  In  most  other  languages,  its  sound 
is  essentially  the  same  as  in  English. 

§  64.  (35.)  -ffi,  at  the  end  of  a  word  or  syllable,  is  sounded  more  distinctly, 
and  in  other  positions  is  apt  to  be  more  strongly  trilled,  than  in  English.  By 
us,  this  letter  is  usually  pronounced  with  the  under  surface  of  the  tip  of  the 
tongue  applied  within  the  dome  of  the  palate,  in  which  position  the  utterance 
is  naturally  very  smooth  and  easy.  By  foreign  nations,  r  is  ordinarily  produced 
by  applying  the  upper  surface  of  the  tongue's  tip  to  the  upper  gum  at  a  point 
quite  near  the  teeth,  which  occasions  a  peculiar  harshness  of  sound,  and  most 
generally  a  decided  vibration,  or  trill.  In  French,  in  such  words  as  sabi-e,  cidve, 
apotre,  (suvre,  it  is  usually  pronounced  as  a  whisper,  but  is  sometimes  vocalized, 
particularly  in  serious  discourse,  foraiing  a  syllable  with  the  obscure  e.  It 
never  admits  the  interposition  of  the  neutral  vowel  {u  in  uji^  urn)  between  it  and 
a  preceding  vowel,  as  is  often  the  case  in  English.  Thus,  the  French  dire  is 
pronounced  def  or  de'ru,  whereas  the  English  dear  is  pronounced  de'ur. 

§  65.  (36.)  »S,  between  tAvo  vowels,  has  usually  the  sound  of  z  in  zeal.  In 
German,  it  often  has  this  sound  given  to  it  at  the  beginning  of  a  syllable,  but  is 
commonly  pronounced  like  sz,  a  hiss  gliding  instantaneously  and  almost  imper- 
ceptibly into  a  buzz.  In  Hungarian,  it  sounds  like  sh  in  English.  S,  in  Polish, 
blends  in  a  single  utterance  the  sounds  of  s  and  consonant  y.     (Compare  §  7-i.) 

§  QQ.  (37.)  T  has  often  a  more  dental  sound  than  in  English,  the  tip  of  the 
tongue  being  placed  against  the  cutting  edge  of  the  upper  tront  teeth,  and  not 
against  the  upper  gum,  as  with  us.     This  is  particularly  observable  in  Spanish. 

§  67.  (38.)  F,  in  German,  sounds  like  f.  In  Danish,  it  is  usually  like  v  in 
English,  but  sometimes  has  the  sound  of  ob;  as  in  havn  (ha'dbn,  or  houn); 
when  followed   by  /,  it  has  the  sound  of  f. 

§  68.  (39.)  ir,  in  German  and  Dutch,  is  intermediate  between  the  English  h 
and  u',  on  the  one  hand,  and  r,  on  the  other,  the  inner  surfaces  of  the  lips  being 
brought  flat  against  each  other,  whereas  in  (Eng.)  w  they  are  rounded,  in  h  the 
edges  are  compressed,  and  in  v  the  lower  lip  comes  in  contact  with  the  upper 
teeth.  (See  §  54.)  B}"-  some  writers,  this  peculiar  utterance  of  lo  is  said  to  be 
provincial  and  dialectical,  in  German,  except  in  words  in  Avhich  lo  is  preceded 
by  a  consonant,  as,  schivan.     In  Polish,  w,  when  it  precedes  a  whispered  or  mute 


INTRODUCTION.  xxix 

consonant,  is  pronounced  as  /;  in  other  situations,  it  has  the  sound  of  the 
German  w. 

§  69.  (40.)  X,  in  French,  has  often  the  sound  of  s,  and  occasionally  that  of  2, 
but  more  generally  that  of  ks  or  of  (jz,  as  in  English.  In  Spanish,  it  is  equivalent 
to  the  j  of  that  language.  (See  §  60.)  In  Portuguese,  it  is  pronounced  like 
sh  in  shall. 

§  70.  (41.)  Z,  in  German  and  Swedish,  has  the  sound  of  ts ;  in  Spanish,  that 
of  tk  in  think  ;  in  Italian,  usually  that  of  dz.  In  Polish,  z  has  the  sound  of  this 
letter  in  the  English  word  zeul ;  z,  the  sound  of  zh,  as  in  azure  (u'zhoor); 
i,  nearly  that  of  rzh. 

Combined  Consonants. 
§  71.  (42.)  Ch,  in  Spanish  (except  in  the  Catalan  dialect,  where  it  sounds  a3 
Jc),  is  pronounced  like  the  same  combination  in  English  in  the  word  church.  In 
Italian  and  Hungarian,  it  has  the  sound  of  k  ;  in  French  and  Portuguese,  of  sA, 
the  exceptions  being  confined  to  words  in  which  it  occurs  before  I  or  1\  and  to 
a  few  words  from  the  Greek,  where  it  sounds  like  k.  In  German,  Dutch,  and 
Polish,  when  preceded  in  the  same  syllable  by  any  one  of  the  vowels  «,  o,  or  u, 
it  has  a  harsh,  guttural  sound  somewhat  resembling  a  strongly  aspirated  h  ;  as  in 
ach,  doch,  buch :  it  is  produced  by  bringing  the  uvula  into  contact  with  the  base 
of  the  tongue,  and  forcing  unintonated  breath  through  the  ban-ier  thus  formed, 
the  position  taken  by  the  organs  remaining  in  other  respects  unchanged.  When 
preceded  by  e,  i,  a,  0,  ii,  e^,  du,  eu,  I,  «,  or  ?•,  the  sound  is  palatal,  and  approxi- 
mates closely  to  that  of  the  first  two  elements  in  the  word  hue  (h^'oo),  the 
tongue  being  considerably  raised  in  the  mouth;  as  in  echt,  ich,  mdchtiy,  toochent- 
lich,  biicher,  reich^  euch,  milch,  manch,  durch. 

4®="  C/j,  in  German  and  Dutch,  before  s  radical,  has  the  sound  of  h ;  as  in 
Sachs€7i   (szak'sn). 

§  72.  (43.)   Cs,  in  Hungarian,  has  the  sound  of  ck  in  church. 

§  73.  (44.)   Cz,  in  Hungarian,  sounds  like  ts  ;  in  Polish,  like  ch  in  church. 

§  74.  (45.)  Dj  and  dy,  in  Hungarian,  is  a  peculiar  sound,  organically  formed 
by  placing  the  tip  of  the  tongue  in  the  position  for  uttering  f/,  and  simultaneously 
raising  the  back  part  into  the  position  for  sounding  consonant  ?/,  before  speaking. 
It  closely  resembles  the  sound  of  d  and  consonant  y  produced  in  immediate 
succession,  as  in  verdure  (verd'yoor),  and  hence  approximates  the  kindred  sound 
of  /  in  just. 

§  75.  (46.)  Gh,  in  Italian,  is  like  gh  in  the  English  words  gherkin,  ghost ;  that 
is,  like  g  in  get,  begin,  &c. 

§  76.  (47.)  Gj,  in  Hungarian,  is  equivalent  to  dj  or  dy  in  the  same  language. 
(See  §  74.) 

§  77.  (48.)  G^  before  i,  not  followed  by  a  consonant,  in  Italian,  is  a  peculiar 
liquid  sound  formed  from  /  in  precisely  the  same  way  that  the  Hungarian  dy  is 
formed  from  d.  Examples  are  gli,  marsigli,  &c.  (See  §  74.)  The  i  is  mute,  if  a 
vowel  follows  it ;  as  in  battaglia,  miglio,  &c. 

§  78.  (49.)  Gn,  in  French  and  Italian,  represents  a  peculiar  liquid  sound 
which  is  identical  with  n  in  Spanish.     (See  §  62,  and  compare  §  74.) 


XXX  INTRODUCTION. 

§  79.  (50.)  Gy,  in  Hungarian,  is  like  dy  in  that  language.     (See  §  74.) 

§  80.  (51.)    KJ,  in  Swedish,  sounds  like  ch  in  church. 

§  81.  (52.)  Z//,  in  Portuguese,  is  the  same  in  sound  with  yl  in  French  and 
Italian,  and  //  in  Spanish.     (See  §§  77,  82.) 

§  82.  (53.)  LI,  in  Si)anish,  blends  the  sounds  of  Zand  consonant  y  in  a  single, 
though  compound  utterance,  by  an  attempt  to  pronounce  them  simultaneously, 
the  back  part  of  the  tongue  being  placed  in  the  position  for  forming  «/,  and  the 
tip  at  the  same  time  in  that  for  forming  I.  The  effect  produced  is  very  nearly 
the  same  as  in  the  English  words  ^7/^//  (tiPyal),  7«i7//(/;i  (mil'yun),  &c.,  where 
tlie  y  follows  the  /,  instead  of  being  amalgamated  with  it.  (Compare  §  74.)  —  In 
French,  the  sound  here  described  is,  by  some  speakers,  given  to  //,  when  preceded 
by  ?,  and  followed  by  a  vowel ;  but,  according  to  the  modern  popular  style  of 
pronunciation,  the  sound  of  the  /  is  dropped,  while  that  of  y  is  often  whispered. 
Thus,  pcqnlUm  is  pronounced  pa'pePyo"',  or  pS'pe'yo"';  file,  fel,  or  fe^'; 
mcmille,  mool'ya',  or  moo'yS.'.  It  is  to  be  observ'ed  that  the  i  preceding  U  is 
silent,  if  itself  preceded  by  a  vowel. 

§  83.  (54.)  Ly,  in  Hungarian,  is  pronounced  like  U  in  Spanish.     (See  §  82.) 

§  84.  (55.)  -A'^,  ill  German  and  Swedish,  has  the  same  sound  as  in  the  English 
•words  sinf/,  siiif/er. 

§  85.  (56.)  Xh,  in  Portuguese,  corresponds  to  the  Spanish  ?!.  Ny,  in  Hun- 
garian, has  the  same  sound.     (See  §  62.) 

§  86.  (57.)  Ph,  in  all  the  languages  of  Continental  Europe  in  which  it  occurs, 
has  the  same  soimd,  that  of  J". 

§  87.  (58.)  Eh  is  pronounced  like  simple  r. 

§  88.  (59.)  i?2,  in  Polish,  is  a  peculiar  sound,  said  to  be  uttered  by  placing  tlie 
tongue  in  the  position  for  zh,  and  trilling  the  tip,  which  is  at  liberty;  in  other 
words,  it  is  a  simultaneous  pronunciation  of  r  and  zh. 

§  89.  (60.)  Sc,  in  Italian,  before  e  and  i.  is  sounded  like  sh  in  shall;  in 
other  positions,  like  sk.  Sc,  in  Polish,  unites  the  soimds  of  s  and  6.  (See  §§ 
65,  55.) 

§  90.  (61.)  Sch,  in  German,  sounds  like  sh  in  shall ;  in  Italian,  before  e  and 
t,  like  sch  in  school,  or  sk  in  skill ;  in  Dutch  and  Polish,  before  all  the  vowels,  it 
resembles  sk,  but  is  harsher,  the  ch  having  the  guttural  or  palatal  sound  de- 
scribed in  §  71. 

§  91.  (62.)  Ss,  in  the  Germanic  languages,  has  the  same  sharp  and  hissing 
sound  that  it  usually  has  in  English. 

§92.  (63.)  Sz,  in  German  and  Hungarian,  sounds  like  s  in  sun;  in  Polish, 
like  sh  in  shall. 

§  93.  (04.)  Szcz,  in  Polish,  is  pronounced  as  shch  would  be  in  English. 

§  94.  (05.)  Th,  in  all  the  languages  of  Continental  Europe,  except  the  Modem 
Greek  (in  which  i?,  the  graphic  equivalent  of  th,  has  the  same  sound  that  this 
digraph  usually  has  in  English),  is  pronounced  like  <A  in  thyme,  Thomas,  that  is, 
like  simple  t. 

§  95.  (06.)  Tj  and  fy,  in  Hungarian,  blend  the  sounds  of  t  and  consonant  y  in 
the  same  manner  that  dj  and  dy,  in  the  same  language,  blend  the  sounds  of  d 
and   y.     (See  §  74.)    The  nearest  English  equivalent  is  the  combination  of  t 


INTRODUCTION.  xxxl 

ftnd  y  in  the  pronunciation   sometimes  given  to  the  words  nature  (nat'yoor,. 
virtiia  (vert'yoo),   »S:c.,  thougii  tlie  c7t   iu  ckurch  is  a  very  similar  sound. 

§  96.  (67.)  7!s,  in  Hungarian,  is  like  ch  in  church,  being  the  same  as  the 
Hungarian  cs.     (See  §  72.) 

§  97.  (08.)  Tsch,  in  German,  sounds  very  nearly  as  ch  in  church.  (See  §§ 
8,  90.) 

§  98.  (69.)  Zs,  in  Hungarian,  is  like  zh  in  English,  as  heard  in  the  pronun- 
ciation of  azure  (a'zhoor),  confusion  (kon-fu'zhun),  &c. 

§  99.  (70.)  Zsch,  in  German,  has  very  nearly  the  sound  of  ch  in  church; 
thus  Zschokke  is  pronounced  almost  like  chok'ka.     (See  §§  8,  70,  and  90.) 

§  100.  (71.)  Zz,  in  Italian,  usually  has  the  sound  of  ts. 

§  101.  (72.)    The  letters  k  and/)  have  the  same  sound  as  in  English. 

§  102.  (73)  Double  consonants,  in  some  foreign  languages,  are  dwelt  upon 
in  a  marked  manner,  producing  the  eftect  of  double  articulation,  though  there 
is  but  one  contact  of  the  organs  of  speech.  This  is  particularly  observable  iu 
Italian  words;  as,  e.  y.,  hanno,  pronounced  sLiVru),  and  not  a'no,  the  two  ti's 
being  pronounced  as  distinctly  as  in  the  English  word  unnerve.  But  if  the 
double  letters  are  cc  or  gg,  and  the  second  c  or  </  has  the  power  of  ch  (m 
church )  or  of ,/,  in  consequence  of  being  followed  by  any  one  of  the  vowels 
€,  i,  and  y,  the  first  c  or  g  has  the  sound  of  t  or  d;  thus  ucciso  is  pronounced 
dbt-che'zo,  not  do-che'zo  nor  dbch-e''zo;  oggi  is  od'jee,not  6'jee,nor  oj'ee.  In 
like  manner,  zz  is  equivalent  to  t-ts,  sometimes  to  d-(Iz. 

Final  consonants  in  French  —  with  the  exception  of  c,  J",  I,  r,  in  most 
cases  —  are  not  generally  pronounced,  unless  immediately  followed,  in  the 
same  sentence,  by  a  word  beginning  with  a  vowel.  But  final  consonants, 
in  classical  and  foreign  names  adopted  in  French,  are  almost  always  articu- 
lated. 

Accent. 

§103.  (74.)  The  French  language, —  as  s/)ol-e«,  — unlike  the  English,  has  no 
decided  accent,  all  the  syllables  of  a  word  being  uttered  with  a  nearly  equal 
stress  of  voice,  except  those  in  which  the  mute  or  obscure  e  occurs,  and  those  in 
which  I,  «,  or  ou,  precedes  a  syllable  commencing  with  a  vowel.  To  an  English 
ear,  however,  the  French  seem  to  accent  the  last  syllable  of  a  word,  because  the 
general  tendency  of  our  own  language  is  to  throw  the  accent  back  toward  the 
beginning  of  the  word.  Hence,  it  is  the  usual  practice  in  English  books,  in 
respelling  French  words  for  pronunciation,  to  mark  the  last  syllable  as  having 
the  accent;  at  the  same  time,  secondary  accents  may  be  placed  on  the  other 
syllables,  to  prevent  them  from  being  slurred  over,  or  too  hurriedly  and  indis- 
tinctly pronounced,  as  is  often  the  case  in  the  enunciation  of  unaccented  syl- 
lables in  English.  It  may  be  observed,  that,  in  French  words  derived  from  the 
Latin,  the  final  spoken  syllable  always  represents  the  accented  syllable  of  the 
Latin ;  it  therefore  has  a  right  to,  and,  in  point  of  fact,  receives,  whatever  accent 
there  is. 

The  Hungarian  language,  like  the  French,  has  no  accent,  the  syllables  of  a 


XXxii  INTRODUCTIOJr. 

word  being  distinguished  from  each  other  solely  by  quantity,  as  in  Greek  and 
Latin.  (See§  29.)  But  in  this  work,  as  in  others,  an  accent  is  placed  on  the 
long  syllable,  in  conformity  with  the  principle  observed  in  the  accentuation  of 
Greek  and  Lai  in  words. 

In  the  Germanic  family  of  languages,  the  principal  accent  falls  upon  the  radi- 
cal syllable;  but,  in  consequence  of  the  vast  proportion  of  compound  words, 
secondarily  accented  syllables  abound,  so  that  two,  and  sometimes  even  three 
or  four,  accents  of  nearly  equal  force  may  occur  in  the  same  word.  It  is 
evident,  that,  to  those  who  are  familiar  with  the  meaning  and  composition  of 
words  in  these  languages,  the  accentuation  must  be  easy  ;  but  no  general 
rules  can  be  given. 

Italian  words  are  mostly  accented  on  the  penultimate  syllable ;  the  same  is  true 
of  Spanish  and  Portuguese  words  ending  in  a  vowel,  while  those  ending  in  a 
consonant,  in  these  two  languages,  are  generally  accented  on  the  last  syllable. 
But  the  exceptions  —  especially  in  Italian  —  are  so  numerous  that  the  rule  is 
not,  perhaps,  of  much  practical  utility. 

Pohsh  words  are  invariably  accented  on  the  penultimate  syllable;  while  th« 
seat  of  the  accent  in  Russian  words  is  almost  always  the  last  syllable. 


EXPLANATION    OF  ABBREVIATIONS,  ETC. 


a.. 


Am.^  or  Amer., 
Ar.,  or  Arab.,   . 
A.-S.,  . 

4,    .        .        . 


Celt.,    . 

cent., 

Chald., 

coll.,  or  colloq., 

Comp., 

Cyc, 

d.,        .        . 
D.,.         . 
Dan.,    .        . 

Eclin., 

Egypt, 

Eng., 

fern.. 
For., 
Fr.,     .        . 


Ger., 
Gr., 


Heb., 
Hist., 
Hung., 


act. 
American. 
Arabic. 
Anglo-Saxon. 

born. 


Celtic. 

century. 

Chald«an. 

colloquially. 

.    Compare. 

Cyclopedia. 

.  died. 

.   Dutch. 

Danish. 

Edinburgh. 

.  Egyptian. 

English. 

.    feminine. 

Foreign. 

French. 


German. 
Greek. 

Hebrew. 

History. 

Hungarian. 


Tceh,        ....        Icelandic. 

Ir., Irish. 

Jt.,  or  Ital,    ....    Italian. 


Lat.,    , 

Mag., 
Myth., 

Norw.. 


Latia 

Magazine. 
Mythology. 

Norwegian. 


Per., 

Pol, 

Port., 

Pr., 

pron., 

Prov., 


Persian. 

.     Polish. 

Portuguese. 

Proven9al. 

pronounced,  pronunciation. 

Provincial. 


Qu.,     . 

q.  V.  (quod  vide), 


Rev., 
Rom., 


Quarterly, 
which  see. 

Review. 
Roman. 


Sansk., 

sc,    . 

Scand., 

Scot, 

Stiak., 

Sp., 

Sw.,      . 


.   Sanskrit. 

.    scene. 

Scandinavian. 

Scottish. 

Shakespeare. 

Spanish. 

.    Swedish. 


Spaced 
not  80  common  or 


letters   are  used  to  distinguish  forms  of  spelling  which  are 
so  well  authorized  as  those  adopted  m  the  vocabulary. 


"  AS  PEOPLE  READ  NOTHING  IN  THESE  DAYS  THAT  IS  MORE  THAN  FORTY- 
EIGHT  HOURS  OLD,  I  AM  DAILY  ADMONISHED  THAT  ALLUSIONS,  THE  MOST 
OBVIOUS,  TO  ANY  THING  IN  THE  REAR  OF  OUR  OWN  TIME  NEED  EXPLA- 
NATION." —  De  Quincby. 


DICTIONARY 


OF   THE 


NOTED    NAMES   OF    FICTION,    ETC. 


A. 


A-bad'd6n.  [Heb.,  from  dbnd,  to  be 
ruined.]  The  Hebrew  name  of  the 
evil  spirit  or  destroying  angel,  called 
Apollyon  in  Greek.  {Rtv.  ix.  11.) 
Some  of  the  mediajval  demonogra- 
phers  regarded  him  as  the  chief  of  the 
demons  of  the  seventh  hierarchy,  and 
as  the  causer  of  wars,  combustions, 
anil  uproars.  Khipstock  lias  made 
use  of  him  in  his  "  Messiah,"  under 
the  name  of  Abadonna,  representing 
him  as  a  fallen  angel,  still  bearing 
traces  of  his  former  dignity  amid  the 
disliguremeuts  caused  by  sin. 

Ab'a-ris.  [Gr.  'AjSapL^.]  A  hyper- 
borean priest  of  Apollo,  Avhose  history 
is  entirely  mythical.  He  is  said  to 
have  been  endowed  with  the  gift  of 
prophec}^ ;  to  have  taken  no  earthly 
food ;  and  to  have  ridden  through  the 
air  on  an  arrow,  the  gift  of  Apollo. 

The  dart  of  Ahari.i,  which  carried  the  phi- 
losopher wheresoever  he  desired  it,  gratifies 
later  enthusiasts  in  travel  as  the  cap  of  For- 
tunatus  and  the  space-conipellint;  hoots  of 
the  nursery  hero  [Jack  the  Giant-killer]. 

Ifillmoft. 

Ab'di-el.  [Heb.,  servant  of  God.]  The 
name  of  an  ^ngel  mentioned  by  the 
Jewish  Cabalists.  He  is  represented, 
in  Milton's  "  Paradise  Lost,"  as  one 
of  the  seraphim,  who,  when  Satan 
tried  to  stir  up  a  revolt  among  the 
angels  subordinate  to  his  authority, 
alone  and  boldly  withstood  his  trai- 
torous desi<rns. 


So  spake  the  seraph  Ahdiel,  faithful  found 
Among  the  faithless;  faithful  only  he; 
Among  innumerable  false,  unmoved, 
Unshaken,  unseduced,  unterritied. 
His  loyalty  he  kept,  his  love,  his  zeal. 

Par.  Lost,  Bl\  V 

You  shall  invoke  the  Muse,  —  and  certainly 

she  ought  to  be  propitious  to  an  author,  who, 

in  an  apostatizing  age,  adheres  with  the  faith 

of  Abditl  to  the  ancient  form  of  adoration. 

Sir  \V.  Scott. 

Ab-hor'son  (-sn).  An  executioner  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Measure  for  Meas- 
ure." 

A'bSti  Has'san.  The  hero  of  one  of 
the  stories  in  the  "  Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments,"  — a  young  man  of 
Bagdad,  who,  by  a  stratagem  of  Ha- 
roun-Al-R'aschid,  was  twice  made  to 
believe  himself  caliph,  and  who  af- 
terward became  in  reality  the  ca- 
liph's chief  favorite  and  companion. 

Ah !  were  I  caliph  for  a  day,  as  honest  Ahon 
Hassan  wished  to  he.  I  would  scourge  me 
these  jugglers  out  of  the  commonwealth  with 
rods  of  scorpions.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Addington  [Secretary  of  the  Treasury],  on 
the  other  hand,  was  by  no  means  inclined  to 
descend  from  his  high  position.  Ho  was,  in- 
deed, under  a  delusion  much  nsemliliiig  tlvit 
of  Abcfu  Hassan  in  the  Arabian  tulf.  Ills  brain 
was  turned  by  his  shortand  unreal  ciiliphate. 

Macaula/f. 

Abraham  -  Cupid.  An  expression 
occurring  in  Shakfspeare's  "  Komeo 
and  Juliet"  (a.  ii.,  sc.  1),  conject- 
ured by  Upton  to  l)e  a  mistake  for 
Adcni  Cupid,  and  to  alliule  to  Adam 
Bell,  the  celebrated  archer.  In  Hal- 
liwell's  opinion,  "  the  conjecture   is 


B©~  For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme   of  Pronunciation,"   with   the   acco?n[)iinying   Explanation^ 
and  for  the  Kemarka  and  Rules  to  which  the  nunibera  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-. 


ABR 


2 


ACE 


very  plausible,  as  proper  names  are 
frequently  abbreviated  in  early  MSS., 
and  it  suits  the  sense  and  meter." 
But  Dyce  thinks  that  Ahrnhnm  is 
merely  ;i  eor/uptioi;  oi'  auburn,  and 
supports  h's  vi  "w  by  citing  several 
passages  irom  old  books  where  the 
corrppt'op  '?•  unquestionable.  Mr.  R. 
G.  Whit  J  remarks,  in  tontirmation 
of  Dycc's  conjecture,  that ''  Cupid  is 
always  represented  by  the  old  paint- 
ers as  auhurn-haired." 

Abraham  Newland.  See  Newland, 
Abkaham. 

Ab's|-16ni.  A  name  given  by  Dry- 
den,  in  his  poem  entitled  "Absalom 
and  Achitophel,"  to  the  Duke  of 
Monmouth,  a  natural  son  of  Charles 
II.  Like  Absalom,  the  son  of  David. 
Monmouth  was  remarkable  for  his 
personal  beauty,  his  popularity,  and 
his  unilutifulness  to  his  father. 

Absolute,  Captain.  A  character  in 
Sheridan's  comedy  of"  The  Rivals;  " 
distinguished  for"  his  gallant,  deter- 
mined spirit,  adroit  address,  and  dry 
humor. 

The  nuthor  will  do  well  to  profit  by  Captain 
Ahxoliite's  advice  to  his  servant,  and  never 
tell  him  more  lies  than  are  indispensably 
necessary.  ■S'ir  \V.  Scott. 

Absolute,  Sir  An'tho-ny  (-to-).  A 
character  in  Sheridan's  comedy  of 
••  The  Rivals;"  represented  as  testy, 
positive,  impatient,  and  overbearing, 
but  yet  of  a  warm  and  generous  dis- 
position. 

fi@=  ''  Sir  Anthony  is  an  evident  copy 
after  SmoPett's  kind-hearted,  high-spir- 
ited Mattliew  Bramble."  Hazlitt. 
I  will  no  longer  avail  myself  of  such  weak 
ministers  as  you;  — I  will  discard  you:  — I 
will  unbeget  you,  as  Sir  Anthonii  Absolute 
says.                                                   Sir  W.  Scott. 

Ab-syr'tus.  [Gr.  'Ai/^uprof.]  {(h\ 
if  Rom.  }fyf]i.)  A  brother  of  Medea, 
and  her  companion  in  her  flight  from 
Colchis.  Finding  that  she  was  nearly 
overtaken  by  her  father,  she  killed 
Absyrtus,  and  cut  his  body  into 
pieces,  which  she  scattered  along  the 
way,  that  her  father  might  thus  be 
detained  by  gathering  up  the  re- 
mains of  his  murdered  son.  See 
Ak(:()naut.s  and  Medka. 

&.-bu'dah.  A  wealthy  merchant  of 
Bagdad  who  figures  in  the  "  Tales  of 


the  Genii,"  by  H.  Ridley.  He  meets 
with  various  remarkable  adventures 
in  his  quest  for  the  talisman  of  Oro- 
manes,  which  he  is  driven  to  seek  by 
the  threats  of  a  little  old  hag  who 
haunts  him  nightly,  and  makes  his 
life  miserable.  He  finds  at  last  that 
the  inestimable  talisman  is  —  to  obey 
God  and  to  love  his  commandments; 
and  he  finds  also  that  all  his  wonder- 
ful experiences  have  been  but  the 
baseless  fabric  of  a  dream. 

Like  Ahuilah,  in  the  Arabian  story,  he  is 
always  looking  out  for  the  Fury,  and  knowi 
that  the  night  will  come,  and  the  inevitable 
hag  with  it.  Tfiuckcruy. 

And  there,  too,  was  Abu/Jah,  the  mercliant, 
with  the  terrible  little  old  woman  hobbling 
out  of  the  box  in  his  bedroom.  Dickens, 

i-ca'di-S.  [Fr.  Acadie,  said  to  be  de- 
rived from  Shubenacddit,  the  name 
of  one  of  the  principal  rivers  of  Nova 
Scotia;  in  old  grants  called  L'Aotdie, 
and  L'l  Ccidit.]  The  original,  and 
now  the  poetic,  name  of  Nova  Sco- 
tia, or  rather  of  a  tract  extendmg 
from  the  fortieth  to  the  forty-sixth 
degree  of  north  latitude,  which  was 
granted,  Nov.  8,  1603,  to  De  Monts, 
by  Henry  IV.  of  France.  The  present 
province  of  Nova  Scotia  extends 
from  lat.  43°  26'  to  45°  bo'  N.  In 
1621,  Acadia  was  granted  by  charter 
to  Sir  William  Alexander,  and  its 
name  changed  to  Nnvn  Scotia. 

M^  In  the  numerous  disputes  between 
the  Entrhsh  .-md  French  colonists  previous 
to  1763,  this  territory  changed  masters 
ten  or  a  dozen  times,  and  the  boundaries 
were  widened  or  narrowed  according  to 
the  respective  views  of  the  opposing  par- 
ties. In  1755.  the  French  inhabitants 
were  seized,  forcibly  removed,  and  dis- 
persed among  the  English  colonists  on 
the  .\tlantic  coast.  Lougfellow  has  made 
this  event  the  subject  of  his  poem  of 
"  Evangeline." 

A-ces'tes.  [Gr.  'AKEOTTjg.]  {Gr.  <f 
'  Bom.  yfyfh.)  A  son  of  the  Sicilian 
river-god  Criraisns  and  of  a  Trojan 
woman  of  the  name  of  Egesta  or 
Segesta.  JLneas,  on  his  arrival  in 
Sicily,  was  hospitably  received  by 
him,  and,  on  revisiting  the  island, 
celebrated  the  anniversary  of  An- 
chises's  death  by  various  games  and 
feats  at  arms.  At  a  trial  of  skill  in 
archery,  Acestes  took  part,  and  dis- 


For  the  "  Key  to   the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


ACH 


3 


ACR 


charged  his  arrow  into  the  air  with 
such  force  that  it  took  tire,  and 
marked  out  a  pathway  of  tiaine,  until 
it  was  wholly  c<»nsunied  and  disap- 
peared from   sif;iit. 

Thy  di'stiiiy  ruinaiiis  untold; 
For,  like  Acegtca'  shaft  of  old, 
The  swift  thought  kindles  as  it  flies. 
And  burns  tu  ushes  in  the  skies. 

Luiigfelloic. 

A-cha'tes.  [Gr.  'A;^;:aT?;c.]  {Gr.  c/ 
Hum.  Myth.)  A  companion  and 
friend  of  ^Eneas.  His  tidelity  was 
so  exemplary  that  "  tidus  Achates," 
faithful  Achates,  became  a  proverb. 

Old  enough,  perhai)s,  but  scarce  wise 
enough,  if  he  has  chosen  this  fellow  for  his 
"  lidus  Achates."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Agli'e-rSn.  [Gr.  'AxEp(Jv  ;  as  if  6 
a^ta  f)£cjv,  the  stream  of  woe,  or  from 
"  privative  and  x^i-pi^i-v,  to  rejoice, 
the  joyless  stream.]  {Gr.  cf  lioin. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Sol  and  Terra, 
changed  into  a  river  in  hell;  some- 
times used  in  a  general  sense  to 
designate  hell  itself. 

Abhorred  Styx,  the  flood  of  deadly  hate, 
Sad  Acheron,  of  sorrow  black  and  deep. 

Milton. 

X-qhilles.  [Gr.  'A;tiAXe{'f.]  ( Gr.  cf 
Ram.  Myth.)  The  principal  hero  of 
Homer's  "Iliad,"  the  son  of  Peleus, 
king  of  the  Myrmidons,  in  Thessaly, 
and  of  Thetis,  a  Nereid.  He  was 
distinguished  above  all  the  rest  of 
the  Greeks  in  the  Trojan  war  by  his 
strength,  beauty,  and  bravery.  At 
his  birth,  he  was  dipped  by  his  mother 
in  the  river  Styx,  and  was  thus  made 
invulnerable  except  in  the  right  heel, 
—  or,  as  some  say,  the  ankles,  —  by 
which  she  held  him ;  but  he  was  at 
length  killed  by  Paris,  or,  according 
to  some  accounts,  by  Apollo.  See 
Hector. 

An  unfortunate  country  [Hanover],  if  the 
English  would  but  think  ;  liable  to  be  stran- 
gled, at  any  time,  for  England's  quarrels;  the 
Achilles-heel  to  invulnerable  England. 

Carlisle. 

^-chillSs  of  Germany.  A  title 
given,  on  account  of  his  bravery,  to 
Albert,  Margrave  of  Brandenburg 
and  Culmbach  (U14-1486),  "a  tall, 
fiery,  tough  old  gentleman,"  says 
Carlyle,  "■  in  his  day,  ...  a  very 
blazing,  far -seen  character,  dim  as 
he  has  now  grown." 


A-chit'o-phel.  A  nickname  given  to 
'  the  Karl  of  Shattcsbury  (I(i21-1G83) 
by  his  contemporaries,  and  made  use 
of  by  Drvden  in  his  pot-m  of  "Ab- 
salom and  Aciiitophel,"  a  masterly 
satire,  springing  from  the  jjolitical 
commotions  of  thi;  times,  and  de- 
sigiiL'd  as  a  defense  of  Charles  H. 
against  the  Whig  party.  There  is  a 
striking  resemblance  between  the 
ciiaracter  and  career  of  Shaftesbury 
and  those  of  Achit()i)hel,or  Ahitho- 
phei,  the  treacherous  triend  and  coun- 
selor of  David,  and  the  fellow-con- 
spirator of  Absalom. 

Of  this  denial  and  this  apology,  we  shall 
only  say  that  the  first  seems  very  apocryphal, 
and  the  second  would  iustily  any  ciinie  whien 
Machiavel  or  Achitoimtl  coaXd  invent  or  rec- 
ouiniend.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

A'cis.  [Gr.  Aki^.]  {Gr.  tf  Earn. 
Myth.)  A  Sicilian  shepherd,  beloved 
by  the  nymph  Galatea,  and  crushed 
under  a  huge  rock  by  Polyphemus, 
the  Cyclops,  who  was  jealous  of  him. 
His  blood  gushing  forth  from  under 
the  rock  was  changed  by  the  nymph 
into  a  river,  the  Acis,  or  Acinius,  at 
the  foot  of  Mount  ^Etna. 

Thus  equipped,  he  would  manfully  sally 
forth,  with  pipe  in  mouth,  to  besiege  some 
fair  damsel's  obdurate  heart,  —  not  such  a 
pipe,  good  reader,  as  that  which  Aci.f  did 
sweetly  tune  in  praise  of  his  Galatea,  but 
one  of  true  Delft  manufacture,  and  furnished 
with  a  charge  of  fragrant    tobacco. 

W.  Irvinr/. 

A-cra'si-a  (a-kra^zhi-S).  [From  Gr 
uKpaala,  want  of  self-control  or  mod- 
eration, intemperance,  from  a  priva- 
tive and  KpuTog,  strength,  power.'^, 
A  witch  in  Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen,'' 
represented  as  a  lovely  and  charming 
woman,  whose  dwelling  is  the  Bower 
of  Bliss,  situated  on  an  island  tioating 
in  a  lake  or  gulf,  and  adorned  with 
every  thing  in  nature  that  could  de- 
light the  senses.  Acrasia  typities 
the  vice  of  Intemperance,  and  Sir 
Guyon,  who  illustrates  the  opposite 
virtue,  is  commissioned  by  the  fairy 
queen  to  bring  her  into  subjection, 
and  to  destroy  her  residence. 

A'cres,  Bob  (a'k^rz).  A  character 
in  Sheridan's  comedy  of  "  The  Ri- 
vals;" celebrated  for  his  cowardice, 
and  his  system  of  referential  or  alle- 
gorical swearing. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refier,  see  pp.  xiv  Tvrii 


ACT 


ADA 


Ai  through  his  palms  Boh  Acref''  vnlor  oozed, 
So  Juan'3  virtue  ebbed,  1  knuw  not  how. 

Byron. 
Besides,  terror,  as  Boh  Acres  says  of  its 
counterpart,  courage,  will  come  and  go;  and 
few  peojjle  can  afford  finiidity  cnoujjli  for  the 
writer's  purpose  who  is  determined  on  "  hor- 
rifying" them  through  three  thick  volumes. 
-b'»>  IV.  :icoU. 

Ac-t8e'6n.  [Gr.  'A/croiwv.]  (Gr.  tf 
Jio/ii.  Myth.)  A  famous  hunter,  who, 
having  surprised  Diana  while  she 
was  bathing,  was  changed  by  her 
into  a  stag,  and,  in  tiiat  form,  was 
torn  to  pieces  by  his  own  hounds. 

He  [Byron],  as  I  guess. 
Had  grazed  on  Nature's  naked  loveliness, 
u4c?teo?j-like,  and  now  ho  fled  astray 
With  feeble  steps  o'er  the  world's  wilderness; 
And  liis  own   thoughts,  along   that  rugged 

way. 
Pursued,  like  raging  hounds,  their  father  and 

their  prey.  Shelley. 

Adam.  1.  Formerly  a  jocular  name 
for  a  sergeant  or  bailiff. 

Not  that  Adam  that  kept  the  paradise,  but 
that  Adam  that  keeps  the  prison.  Shak. 

2.  An  aged  servant  to  Oliver,  in 
Shakespeare's  "As  You  Like  It." 

4®^  '*  The  serving-man  Adam,  humbly 
born  and  coarsely  nurtured,  is  no  insignif- 
icant personage  in  the  drama  ;  and  we 
find  in  the  healthy  tone  of  his  mind,  and 
in  his  generous  heart,  which,  under  re- 
verses and  wrongs,  still  preserves  its 
charitable  trust  in  his  fellows,  as  well  aa 
in  his  kindly,  though  frosty,  age,  a  de- 
lightful and  instructive  contrast  to  the 
character  of  Jaques,  which  could  hardly 
have  been  accidental."'  K.  G.  White. 

Adamastor^iid'a-mas'tor;  Port.pron. 
a-da-mas-tdf ',  64).  The  Spirit  of  the 
Stormy  Cape,— j.  e.,  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  —  a  hideous  phantom 
described  by  Camoens,  in  the  lifth 
canto  of  the  "  Lusiad,"  as  appearing 
by  night  to  the  tleet  of  Vasco  da 
Gama,  and  predicting  the  woes  which 
would  befall  subsequent  expeditions 
to  India.  Mickle  supposes  that  by 
Adamastor  the  genius  of  Mohani- 
medanism  is  intended.  According  to 
Barreto,  he  was  one  of  the  Giants 
■who  made  an  attack  on  heaven,  and 
were  killed  by  the  gods  or  buried 
under  various  mountains. 

Were   A'tnmnxtor  to   appear   to  him    Fthe 
gamm    of  Parisl.  he  would  shout  out,  "  Hal- 
lo there,  old  Bug-a-boo!  "        V.  Hugo.  Trans. 

Adam  Kad'm6n.  In  the  Cabalistic 
doctrine,  the  name  given  to  the  first 


emanation  from  flie  Eternal  Foun- 
tain. It  signifies  the  First  Man,  or 
the  first  production  of  divine  energy, 
or  the  Son  of  God;  and  to  it  the  other 
and  inferior  emanations  are  subor- 
dinate. 

Adam,  Master.    See  Master  Adam. 

Adams,  Parson  Abraham.  A  coun- 
try curate  in  Fielding's  novel  of 
"Joseph  Andrews;"  distinguished 
for  his  goodness  of  heart,  poverty, 
learning,  and  ignorance  of  the  world, 
combined  with  courage,  modesty,  and 
a  thousand  oddities. 

&S"  "As  to   P.irson   Adams,   and   his 
fist,  and  hisgood  heart,  and  his  .Eschylus 
which  he  couldnt  .><ee  to  read,  and  hid 
rejoicing  at  being  delivered  from  a  ride 
in   the  carriage  with  Mr.  Peter  Pounce, 
whom  he  had  erroneously  complimented 
on  the  smallness  of  his  parochial  means, 
let  every  body  rejoice  that  there  ha.s  beeu 
a  man  in  the  world  called  Ilenry  fielding 
to  think  of  such  a  character,  and  thou- 
sands  of  good    people   sprinkled    about 
that  world  to  answer   for   the  truth  of 
it ;  for  had  there  not  been,  what  wouid 
have  been  its  value?  ...   He  is  one  of 
the  simplest,  but  at  the  same  time  man- 
hest  of    men  ;    is  au.xious  to  read  a  man 
of  the  world  his    .>*ermoa  on  '  vanitv  ; ' 
preaches   patience    under   affliction,  and 
is  ready  to  lose  his  senses  on  tlie  death 
of  his  little  boy  ;    in  short,  has  '  every 
virtue    under    heaven,'   except    that    of 
superiority   to   the   common   failings    of 
humtnity,  or    of    being    able    to    resist 
knocking  a  rascal  down  when  he  insults 
the   innocent.      lie  is   very  poor  ;    and, 
agreeably  to  the  notions  of  refinement  in 
those  days,  is  treated  by  the  rich  as  if 
he  were  little  better  than  a  servant  him- 
self.    Even  their  stewards  think  it  a  con- 
descension to  treat  him  on  equal  terras." 
Lfigk  Hunt. 
"  The    humanitv,    benevolence,    and 
goodness  of  heart  so  conspicuous  in  Mr. 
Adams,    his    unswerving    integrity,    his 
zeal  in  the  cause  of  the    oppressed,  his 
unaffected   nature,    independent   of    hia 
talent  and  learning,  win  our  esteem  and 
respect,  even  while  his  virtuous  simplic- 
ity provokes  our  smiles ;  and    the   little 
predicaments  into  which  he  falls,  owing 
to  his  absence  of  mind,  are  such  as  excite 
our  mirth  without  a  shadow  of  derision 
or  malevolence."  Thomas  Ruscoe. 

As  to  his  [Hugo  von  Trimberg's]  inward 
man,  we  can  still  be  sure  that  he  was  no 
mere  bookworm,  or  simple  Parson  Adanm. 

Oarlyle, 


Va^  For  tlie  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanatioua, 


ADD 


MG 


Ad'di-Ron  of  the  North  (acl'di-sn). 
A  surname  sometimes  given  to  Henry 
Mackenzie  (1745-1831),  the  Scottisti 
novelist,  wiiose  style  like  Addison's, 
]s  distinguished  lor  its  relinenient  and 
Qelieacy. 

Addle,  07'  Addled,  Parliament. 
{J^n(j,  Hist.)  A  name  given  to  the 
English  Parliament  which  assembled 
at  London,  April  5,  1U14,  and  was 
dissolved  on  the  7th  of  the  following 
June.  It  was  so  called  because  it 
remonstrated  with  the  King  on  his 
levying  "benevolences,"  and  passed 
no  acts. 

Ad-me'tus.  [Gr.*'Af5//7;rof.]  {Gr.  if 
Rom.  ^fy(h.)  A  king  of  Plierte,  in 
'1  hessaly,  liu«baiidofAIcestis,  famous 
for  his  misfurtuiies  and  piety.  Apollo 
entered  his  service  as  a  shepherd, 
having  been  condemned  by  Jupiter 
to  become  the  servant  of  a  mortal  for 
one  year  as  a  punishment  for  slay- 
ing the  Cyclops.  Lowell  has  made 
this  incident  the  subject  of  a  short 
poem  entitled,  "  The  Shepherd  of 
King  Admetus."     See  Alcestis. 

Admirable  Crichton.  See  Crich- 
TON,  The  Admihable. 

Admirable  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Mlrabilis.]  A  title  bestowed  upon 
Roger  Bacon  (1214-12^2),  an  English 
monk,  who,  by  the  power  of  his 
genius  and  the  extent  of  his  learning, 
raised  himself  above  his  time,  made 
many  astonishing  discoveries  in  sci- 
ence, and  contributed  much  to  the 
extension  of  real  knowdedge. 

j^.d'o-na'is.  A  poetical  name  given 
by  Shelley  to  the  poet  Keats  (1796- 
1821),  on  -whose  untimely  death  he 
wrote  a  monody  bearing  this  name 
for  its  title.  The  name  was  coined 
by  Shelley  probably  to  hint  an  anal- 
ogy between  Keats's  fate  and  that 
of  Adonis. 

A-do'nis.  [Gr.  'Adojvic;.]  {Gr.  if 
Bom.  Aft/th.)  A  beautiful  youth, 
beloved  by  Venus  and  Proserpine, 
who  quarreled  about  the  possession 
of  him.  The  dispute  was  settled  by 
Jupiter,  who  decided  that  he  should 
spend  eight  months  in  the  upper 
world  with  Venus,  and  four  in  the 
lower  with  Proserpine.     Adonis  died 


of  a  wound  received  from  a  wild  boar 
during  the  cnase,  and  was  turned 
into  an  anemone  l>y  Venus,  who 
yearly  bewailed  him  on  the  anni- 
versary of  his  death.  The  myths 
connected  with  Adonis  are  of  (Orient- 
al origin,  and  his  worship  was  widely 
spread  among  the  countries  border- 
ing on  the  eastern  portion  of  the 
Mediterranean.  The  story  of  Venus's 
love  for  him  was  made  the  subject 
of  a  long  descriptive  poem  by  Shake- 
speare, and  is  often  alluded  to  by 
other  poets. 

Buds  of  hyacinths  and  roses 

Where  young  Adonis  oft  reposes, 

Waxing  well  of  his  deep  wound 

In  slumber  soft.  Milton. 

A-dras'tus.  [Gr.  "ArJpaarof.]  (Gr. 
if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  king  of  Argos, 
and  the  institutor  of  the  Nemean 
games.  He  was  one  of  the  heroes 
Avho  engaged  in  the  war  of  the 
"  Seven  against  Thebes." 

A'dri-a'na  (or  ad'ri-an'a).  Wife  of 
Antipholus  of  Ephesus,  in  Shake- 
speare's "Comedy  of  Errors." 

Adversity  Hume.  A  nickname  given 
to  Joseph  Hume  (1777-1855),  in  the 
time  of  "  Prosperity  Robinson,"  and 
in  contradistinctiori  to  him,  owing  to 
his  constant  presages  of  ruin  and  dis- 
aster to  befall  the  people  of  Great 
Britain.  See  Pkospekity  RoiiiN-soN. 

-^'a-cus.  [Gr.'Am/cdf.]  {Gr.ifRom. 
Myth. )  A  son  of  Jupiter  and  ^gina, 
renowned  for  his  justice  and  piety. 
After  his  death  he  was  made  one  of 
the  three  judges  in  Hades. 

^-g8e'6n.  [Gr. 'Af/a/wv.]  {Gr.  if 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  huge  monster  with 
a  hundred  arms  and  lifty  heads,  who. 
wdth  his  brothers  Cottus  and  Gyges, 
conquered  the  Titans  by  hurling  at 
them  three  hundred  rocks  at  once. 
By  some  he  is  reckoned  as  a  marine 
god  living  under  the  yEgean  Sea; 
A'^irgil  numbers  him  among  the  gods 
who  stormed  Olympus;  and  Callima- 
chiis,  regarding  him  in  the  same 
light,  places  him  under  Mount  ^Etna. 

.ffi-ge'on.  A  merchant  of  Syracuse, in 
>hakespeare's  "  Comedy  of  Errors." 

JEgeria.     See  Egehia. 

-SJ^geiis.      [Gr.  klyevg.]    (  Gr.  if  Rom. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  number*  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


JEGr 


ML 


Myth.)  A  king  of  Athens  from  whom 
the  vEgean  Sea  received  its  name. 
His  son  Theseus  went  to  Crete  to 
deliver  Athens  fronv  the  tribute  it 
had  to  pay  to  Minos,  promising  that, 
on  his  return,  he  would  hoist  white 
sails  as  a  signal  of  his  safety.  This 
he  forgot  to  do,  and  ^£geus,  who  was 
watching  for  him  on  a  rock  on  the 
sea-coast,  on  perceiving  a  black  sail, 
thought  that  his  son  had  perished, 
and  tiirew  himself  into  the  sea. 

^-gi'na.  (Or.  c/  Rom.  Myth.)  A 
daughter  of  the  river-god  Asopus, 
and  a  favorite  of  Jupiter. 

^'gis.  [Gr.  Alyig.]  (Or.  <f  Roni. 
Myth.)  1.  The  shield  of  Jove, 
fashioned  by  Vulcan,  and  described 
as  striking  terror  and  amazement 
into  the  beholders. 

2.  A  sort  of  short  cloak,  worn  by 
Miner\-a,  which  was  covered  with 
scales,  set  with  the  Gorgon's  head, 
and  fringed  with  snakes. 

.ffi-gis'thus.  [Gr.  AlyLodor.']  {Gr. 
^-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Thyestes, 
and  the  paraniour  of  Clytemnestra, 
whose  husband,  Agamemnon,  he 
♦reacherously  murdered  at  a  repast. 
He  was  subsequently  killed  by  Ores- 
tes, a  son  of  Agamemnon,  who  thus 
avenged  his  father's  death.  See 
Thyestes. 

^gle  (eg'le).  [Gr.  AfyZ?;.]  {Gr.  if 
Rom.  Myth.)  1.  One  of  the  Hes- 
perides. 

2.  The  most  beautiful  of  the  Na- 
iads, and  the  mother  of  the  Graces. 

^-gyp'tus.  [Gr.  AfyvTTTOf.]  {Gr.  4 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Belus,  and 
twin  brother  of  Danaus.  He  had  by 
several  wives  fifty  sons,  who  were 
married  to  their  lifty  cousins,  the 
daughters  of  Danaus,  and  all  but  one 
of  whom  were  murdered  by  their 
wives  on  the  bridal  night. 

^1i-a  Lseli-a  Cris'pis.  The  un- 
known subject  of  a  very  celebrated 
enigmatical  inscription,  preserved  in 
Bologna,  which  has  puzzled  the  heads 
of  many  learned  men  who  have  at- 
tempted to  explain  it.  It  is  as  fol- 
lows :  — 

iBIia  Laelia  Crispis, 
Nee  vir,  nee  mulier,  nee  androgyna; 
Nee  puella,  nee  juvenis,  nee  anus; 


Nee  moretrix,  nee  pudica; 
Sed  uninia: 
Sublata  neque  fame,  nee  ferro,  neque  venenoi 

Sed  omnibus: 
Ncc  cselo,  nee  uquis,  nee  terris; 
Sed  ubiquejaeet. 

Lucius  Agutho  Priseun, 
Nee  niaritus,  nee  amatur,  nee  necessarius; 
Neque  mcerens,  neque  gaudens,  neque  ilenB; 

Sed  omnia: 
Hanc  neque  niolem.  neque  pyraniidem,  ne- 
que sepulehruui, 

Seit  et  neseit  quid  posuerit. 
Uoc  est,     bepulchrum     intus    cadaver    non 

habens; 
Hoe  est,    cadaver,   sepulchrum,   extra   non, 
liabens; 

Sed  cadaver  idem  est,  et  sepulchrum 
sibi. 
jElia  Laelia  Crispis,  neither  man,  nor  wom- 
an, nor  hermapliiodite:  neither  girl,  nor  boy, 
nor  old  woman;  neither  harlot  nor  virgin; 
but  all  of  these:  destroyed  neither  by  hunger, 
nor  sword,  nor  poison;  but  b}'  all  of  them: 
lies  neither  in  heaven,  nor  in' the  water,  nor 
in  the  ground,  but  everywhere.  Lucius  Aga- 
tho  Priscus,  neither  her  husband,  nor  her 
lover,  nor  her  kinsman;  neither  sad, glad,  nor 
weeping,  but  all  at  once;  knows  and  knows 
not  wliat  he  has  built,  which  is  neither  a 
funeral-pile,  nor  a  pyramid,  nor  a  tomb;  that 
is,  a  tomb  without  a  corpse,  a  corp^e  without 
a  tomb;  for  corpse  and  tomb  are  one  and  the 
same. 

iKg=  Various  explanations  of  the  mean- 
ing of  this  curious  epitaph  hiive,  from 
time  to  time,  been  put  forward ;  bi;t 
there  is  much  renson  for  doubting 
whether  it  h;is  any.  Some  have  thought 
the  true  interpretation  to  be  rain-water  ; 
some,  the  so-called  '"  materia  prima  :  " 
some,  the  reasoning  faculty  ;  s^ome.  the 
philo.«opher"s  stone;  some,  love  ;  some,  a 
dissected  person  ;  some,  a  shadow  ;  si  me, 
hemp  ;  some,  an  embryo.  Professor 
Schwartz,  of  Coburg,  explained  it  of  the 
Christian  Church,  referring,  in  support 
of  his  opinion,  to  Galatiaus  iii.  28. — 
''  There  is  neither  Jew  nor  Greek,  there 
is  neither  bond  nor  free,  there  is  neither 
male  nor  female;  for  ye  are  all  one  in 
Christ  Jesus."  Spondanus.  in  hi.<i '"  Voy- 
age d'ltalie."  affirms  that  the  inscription 
is  onlj'  a  copy,  and  that  it  is  not  known 
what  has  become  of  the  original.  lie 
denies  its  antiquity,  regarding  it  as  the 
ludicrous  fancy  of  a  modern  author, 
who.  he  insists,  was  ignorant  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  Latin  family  nomenclature. 
But  Franckenstein  says  that  this  asser- 
tion has  been  confuted  by  Misson,  in  the 
appendix  to  his  "  Travels.'" 

I  might  add  what  attracted  considerable 
notice  at  the  time,  — and  that  is  my  paper  in 
the  "Gentleman's  Magazine"  upon  the  in- 
scription ^£lia  Jxelia,  which  I  subscribed 
CEdipus.  Sir  »!'.  Scott. 

Bacon's  system  is,  in  its  own  terms,  an  idol 
of  the  theater.  It  would  scarcelv  guide  a 
man  to  a  solution  of  the  riddle  A^lia  Lalia 
C'rLipis,  or  to  that  of  the  charade  of  Sir  Hilary 
[by  Praed].  J.  W.  Draper. 


KT"  For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation!, 


JEM 


AGR 


^-mil'i-a.  Wife  of  JEgeon,  and  an 
abbess  at  Epht'sus,  in  Shakespeare's 
"Comedy  of  Errors." 

^-ne'as.  [Gr.  'Aiveia^.]  {Or.  <f 
Rom.  yfyth.)  A  Trojan  prince,  the 
hero  of  Virgil's  "yEneid."  He  was 
the  son  of  Anchises  and  Venus,  and 
was  distinguished  for  his  pious  care 
of  his  father.  Having  survived  the 
fall  of  Troy,  he  sailed  to  Italy,  and 
settled  in  Latium,  where  he  married 
Lavinia,  the  daughter  of  Latinus, 
whom  he  succeeded  in  his  kingdom. 
See  CHEU8A. 

.ffi'o-lus.  [Gr.  Molog.']  (  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  ruler  and  god  of  the 
winds,  who  resided  in  the  islands  in 
the  Tyrrhenian  sea,  which  were  called 
from  him  the  /Eolian  Islands. 

^s'a-cus.  [Gr.  Aiaa/toj-.]  {Or.  (f- 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Priam,  Avho 
was  enamored  of  the  nymph  Iles- 
peria,  and,  on  her  death,  threw  him- 
self into  the  sea,  and  was  changed  by 
Thetis  into  a  cormorant. 

^s'cu-la'pi-us.  [Gr.  'AoKlrjinog.  \ 
{O'r.  if  Rom.  Myth.)  The  son  of 
Apollo,  and  the  god  of  the  medical 
art.  He  was  killed  Avith  a  Hash  of 
lightning  by  Jupiter,  because  he  had 
restored  several  persons  to  life. 

^'son.  [Gr.  Mauv.]  {Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  father  of  Jason.  He  was 
restored  to  youth  by  Medea. 

Afric.  A  poetical  contraction  of  Af- 
rica. 


Where  Afric's  snnny  f(juntains 
Roil  down  their  golden  sand. 


Heber. 


Ag'a-mem'non.  [Gr.  'Ayafxifivuv.] 
{dr.  if  Rim'i.  Myth.)  King  of  My- 
«;ena3,  brother  of  Menelaus,  and  com- 
mander-in-chief of  the  Grecian 
forces     in     the     Trojan    war.     See 

^GISTHUS. 

Ag'a-nip'pe.  [Gr.  'kynvLTr-Kr].']  { Gr. 
(f  Rom.  Myth.)  A  fountain  at  the 
foot  of  Mount  Helicon,  in  Boeotia, 
consecrated  to  Apollo  and  the  Muses, 
and  believed  to  have  the  power  of 
inspiring  those  who  drank  of  it. 
The  Pluses  are  sometimes  called 
Af/anippi(Ies. 

Agapida,  Fray  Antonio  (fri  Sn- 
to'ne-o  a-ga-pe'tha).   The  imaginary 


chronicler  of  the  "  Conquest  of  Gra- 
nada," written  by  Washington  In'ing. 

A-ga've.  [Gr.  'Ayav?/.]  {  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Cadmus,  and 
the  mother  of  Tentheus,  whom,  in  a 
fit  of  frenzy,  she  tore  to  pieces  on 
i\Iount  Cithieron,  believing  him  to  be 
a  wild  beast. 

A'gib.  The  third  Calendar  in  the 
story  of  "  The  Three  Calendars,"  in 
the  "  Arabian  Nights'  Entertain- 
ments." 

Agitator,  The  Irish.     See  Irish  Ag- 

ITATOU. 

Ag-la'i-a  (20).  [Gr.  'AyTiatr].]  {Gr. 
if  Rom.  Myth.)  One  of  the  three 
Graces. 

Ag'nes  {Fr.  pron.  an'yes').  1,  A 
young  girl  in  Moliere's  "  L'EcoIe  des 
Fennnes,"  who  is,  or  affects  to  be, 
remarkably  simple  and  ingenuous. 
The  name  has  passed  into  popular 
use,  and  is  applied  to  any  young 
woman  unsophisticated  in  affairs  of 
the  heart. 

4®=  Agnes  is  the  origin.al  from  which 
AVyclierley  took  liis  Mrs.  Pinchwife,  in 
the  •'  Country  Wife."  subsequently  al- 
tered by  Garrick  into  the  "  Country 
Girl." 

2.  A  character  in  Dickens's  novel 
of  "  David  Coppertield."  See  Whk- 
FiELi),  Agnes. 

Ag'ni.  [Sansk..  fire.]  {Hindu Myth.) 
The  god  of  lightning  and  the  sun's 
fire. 

Agramante  (a-gra-man'ta),  or  Ag'ra- 
mant.  King  of  the  Moors,  in  Bo- 
jardo's  poem  of  "  Orlando  Inna- 
inurato,"  and  in  Ariosto's  "  Orlando 
Furioso." 

Ag'ra-viine,  Sir.  A  knight  of  the 
Round  Table,  celebrated  in  the  old 
romances  of  chivalry.  He  was  sur- 
named  "  Z' (>r^Mez7/ewa;,"  or  "The 
Proud." 

A-Green,  George.  See  George 
a-Green. 

Agricane  (5-gre-ka''n5),  or  Ag'ri-can. 
A  fabulous  king  of  Tartary,  in  Bo- 
jardo's  "Orlando  Innamorato,"  who 
besieges  Angelica  in  the  castle  of 
Albracca,  and  is  killed  by  Orlando 
in  single  contest.  In  his  dying  mo- 
ments, he  requests  baptism  at  the 


And  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv  -xxxii. 


AGU 


8 


ALA 


hand  of  his  conqueror,  who,  with 
great  tenderness,  bestows  it.  He  is 
represented  as  bringing;  into  the  field 
no  fewer  than  two  million  two  hun- 
dred thousand  troops. 

Such  forces  met  not,  nor  so  wide  a  camp, 
"When  Arjrican,  with  nil  liis  northern  powers, 
Besieged  Albracca,  as  romancers  tell. 

Milton. 

Ague-cheek,  Sir  Andrew.  A  de- 
lightful simpleton  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Twelfth  Night."     See  Slender. 

JBC^  "To  this  straight-haired  country 
equire,  Ufe  consist^  only  in  eating  and 
drinking  ;  e  iting  hff  f,  he  himself  feai's, 
has  done  harm  to  his  wit;  in  fact,  he  is 
etupid  even  to  silliness,  totally  deprived 
of  all  fashion,  and  thus  of  all  self-love  or 
tself-conceit."  Gervinus,  Trans. 

I  suppose  I  must  say  of  JefFrey  ,is  Sir  An- 
drew  Afjtie-cheek  s;iith:""  An  I  liad  known  he 
was  so  cunning  of  fence,  I  had  been  him 
damned  ere  I  had  fought  him."  Byron. 

^-has''u-e'rus  (a-hazh'oo-e'rus,  10). 
See  -Iew,  The  Wandering. 

Ahmed,  Prince.  See  Prince  Ah- 
med. 

Ah'ri-man,  or  Ah'ri-ma'nes.  [Per., 
from  .Sansk.  0/7",  foe.]  (Mijtit.)  A 
deity  of  the  ancient  Persians,  being 
a  personilication  of  the  principle  of 
evil.  To  his  agency  Avere  ascribed 
all  the  evils  existing  in  the  world. 
Ormuzd,  or  Oromasdes,  the  principle 
of  good,  is  eternal,  but  Ahriman  is 
created,  and  will  one  day  perish. 
See  Ormuzd. 

I  recognize  the  evil  spirit,  Sir,  and  do 
honor  to  Ahrimanes  in  taking  off  my  hat  to 
this  young  man.  Th'arkerwi. 

Ai'denn.  An  Anglicized  and  dis- 
guised spelling  of  the  Arabic  form  of 
the  word  hAhn ;  used  as  a  synonym 
for  the  celestial  paradise. 

Tell  this  soul,  with  sorrow  laden,  if,  within 

the  distant  Ai'lenn. 
It  shall  clnsp  a  sainted  maiden,  whom  the 

angels  name  Lenore.  Poe. 

Aimwell.  A  gentleman  of  broken 
fortunes,  master  to  Archer,  in  Far- 
quhar's  comedy,  "  The  Beaux'  Strat- 
agem." 

A'jax.  [Gr.  Amr.]  (Gr.  <f  R(mi. 
.\fyth.)  1.  A  son  of  Telamon,  king 
of  Salamis.  Next  to  Achilles,  he  was 
the  most  distinguished,  the  bravest, 
and  tiie  most  beautiful,  of  all  the 
<ireeks  before  Troy.  Accounts  differ 
as  to  the  cause  and  manner  of  his 


death.  A  tradition  mentioned  by 
Pausanias  states,  that  from  his  blood 
there  sprang  up  a  purple  flower, 
which  bore  tlie  letters  ai  on  its  leaves, 
which  were  at  once  the  initials  of 
his  name  and  a  sigh. 

Gad  !  slie  shoots  her  glances  as  sharply  from 
behind  the  old  pile  yonder,  as  Teucer  from 
behind  ^Oa^  Telamo'n's  shield,     ^ir  H'.  Scott. 

2.  A  son  of  Oileus,  king  of  the 
Locrians.  He  was  one  of  the  great 
heroes  among  the  Greeks  in  the  Tro- 
jan war,  but  inferior  to  the  son  of 
Telamon,  whence  he  is  called  the 
Itsstr  Ajax. 

His  shafts,  like  those  of  the  lesser  Ajax, 
were  discharged  more  readily  that  the  archer 
was  inaccessible  to  criticism,  personally 
speaking,  as  the  Grecian  archer  under  his 
brother's  sevenfold  shield.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

A-lad'din.  A  character  in  the  "  Ara- 
bian Nights'  Entertainments,"  who 
becomes  possessed  of  a  wonderful 
lamp,  and  an  equally  wonderful  ring, 
on  rubbing  which  two  frightful  genii 
appear,  who  are  respectively  the  slave 
of  the  lamp  and  the  slave  of  the  ring, 
and  who  execute  the  bidding  of  any 
one  who  may  have  these  talismans 
in  his  keeping. 

/^fg^  By  menns  of  the  lamp  and  ring, 
Aladdin  is  enabled  to  marrv  a  diughter 
of  the  sultan  of  Chinn,  and  builds  in  a 
single  night  a  magnifirent  pal'ice  con- 
taining a  larse  hall  with  fonr-jind-twentv 
windows  in  it  decoratel  with  ji-wels  of 
everv  description  and  of  nntoH  v  ilne.  one 
window  onlv  being  excepted,  which  is 
left  quite  pliin  that  the  suUan  may 
have  the  glor\  of  finishing  the  p  rtment. 
But  all  the  treisnres  of  hisenipir*'  and  all 
the  skill  of  liis  jewelers  and  goldsmiths  a  re 
not  sufficient  to  nrname'it  even  one  side 
of  the  window  :  wherenpon  Aladdin,  after 
having  the  materials  which  have  bfcn 
used  removed  and  returned  to  the  snltan, 
direc'^s  t'le  genie  to  complete  the  \vindow, 
which  is  immediately  done.  At  length, 
a  malignant  magician  frandulenclv  ob- 
tains the  mincnlous  lamp,  during  the 
t«'mporary  absence  of  the  owner,  and  in- 
stantaneonslv  transports  the  palace  to 
Africa.  But  the  rinc  still  remains  to 
Aladdin,  and  enables  him  to  pur-ue  and 
circumvent  the  thief,  and  to  recover  the 
lamp  and  restore  the  palace  to  it«  former 
situation. 

The  epliemeral  kingdom  of  West^ihalin.  the 
appin  tire  of  Jerome  Bonaparte,  composed  out 
of  the  spoils  of  these  p?-incipnlities.  vanished 
into  nir.  like  the  palace  of  Alnd'Un.  in  the 
Arabian  tale.  Sir  )F'.  Scott 


j^~  For  the    "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying    Explanation^ 


ALA 


ALB 


It  was  absolutely  imposf5ible  that  a  family, 
hnlrtini?  a  document  which  gave  them  un- 
limitoft  access  to  the  patronajie  of  the  most 
powerful  nobleman  in  Seotlnnrt,  should  liave 
sufiered  it  to  remain  Tuieniployed,  like  Alad- 
rfin's  rusty  lamp,  while  they  strufrgled  through 
three  generations  in  poverty  and  disuppoint- 
nient.  Senior. 

Ah !  who  shall  lift  that  wand  of  magic  power, 

And  the  lost  clew  regain/ 
The  unfinished  window  in  Aladdin's  tower 

Untinishcd  ujust  remain.  Loruj/'ellow. 

Alaric  Cottin  (a'la'rek'  kot'ta"  ').  A 
nickname  given  b}'  Voltaire  to  Fred- 
erick the  Great,  king  of  Prus.sia,  who 
was  ditftinguisiied  lor  his  military 
geniu.*,  and  was  also  known  as  a  dab- 
bler in  literature,  and  a  writer  of  bad 
French  verses.  The  lirst  name  refers 
to  the  famous  Visigothic  king  and 
warrior,  while  the  second  probably 
refers  to  the  Abb^  Cotin,  a  mediocre 
poet  of  the  seventeenth  century,  who 
was  severely  satirized  by  Boileau, 
Moliere,  and  other  writers  of  his  time. 
See  TnistsoTiN. 
$.-las'nS,m.  The  hero  of  a  story  in 
*  the  "Arabian  >;ights'  Entertain- 
ments "  entitled  "  The  History  of 
Prince  Zeyn  Alaj^nam  and  the  Sultan 
of  the  Genii,"  which  relates  how  he 
came  into  the  possession  of  immense 
wealth,  including  eight  statues  of 
solid  gold;  how  he  was  led  to  seek 
for  a  ninth  statue  more  precious  .still, 
to  place  on  an  empty  pedestal ;  and 
how  he  found  it  at  last  in  the  person 
of  the  most  beautiful  and  purest  wom- 
an in  the  world,  who  became  his  wife. 

In  this  brilliant  comedy  [Congrcve's 
"Love  for  Love "]>  there  is  plenty  of  bright 
and  sparkling  characters,  rich  as  wit  and 
inaagination  can  make  them  ;  hut  there_  is 
wanting  one  pure  and  perfect  mridel  of  sim- 
ple nature,  and  that  one,  wherever  it  is  to  be 
found,  is,  like  Alasnam's  lady,  ....  worth 
them  all.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

jL-las'tor.  [Gr.  'Ah'iaTu)p,  from  a 
privative,  and  hid-dv,  to  forget.]  In 
classical  mythology,  a  surname  of 
Zeus  or  Jupiter;  also,  in  general,  a 
punitive  deity,  a  hou.'^e-demon,  the 
never-forgetting,  revengeful  spirit, 
\\ho,  in  consequence  of  some  crime 
perpetrated,  persecutes  a  family  from 
generation  to  generation.  Plutarch 
relates  that  Cicero,  in  his  hatred  of 
Augustus,  meditated  killing  himself 
by  the  fireside  of  this  prince  in  order 
to  become  his  Alastnr.  In  the  Zo- 
Toastrian  system,  Alastor  is  called  the 


Executioner  or  Tormentor.  Origen 
says  he  is  the  same  as  Azazel. 
Others  confound  him  Avith  the  Ex- 
temiinating  Angel.  By  Wierus  and 
other  media' val  demonographers, 
Alastor  is  described  as  a  devil  in  the 
infernal  court,  and  the  chief  execu- 
tive othcer  in  great  undertakings. 
Shelley,  in  his  poem  entitled  "Alas^ 
tor,"  makes  him  the  "  Spirit  of  Soli- 
tude." 

Al-ba'ni-a, )  A  name  given  to  Scotland, 

Ai'ba-ny.  \  or  the  Scottish  High- 
lands, in  the  old  romances  and  his- 
tories. It  is  said  to  have  been  derived 
from  a  certain  iabulous  Albmmct^  who 
received  this  portion  of  the  island  of 
Albion,  or  Britain,  from  his  father 
Brutus.     See  Albyn. 

Al'ba-u^  Regency.  A  name  popu- 
larly gi\en  in  the  United  States  to  a 
jurtc  of  astute  Democratic  politicians, 
havingtheirhead-(iiiarters  at  Albany, 
who  controlled  the  action  of  the 
Dtmocratic  party  for  many  years, 
ani  hence  had  great  weight  in  na- 
ticnal  politics.  The  effort  to  elect 
William  H.  Crawford  president,  in- 
stead of  John  Quincy  Adams,  was 
their  first  great  struggle. 

Al'Vn-Sn.  An  ancient  name  of  Britain, 
said  to  have  been  given  to  it  on  ac- 
ccunt  of  the  lofty  white  clift's  (Lat. 
a/6?/5,  white)  on  the  southern  coast. 
Others  trace  the  word  to  the  Celtic 
alb,  (lip,  high. 

4f^iP"  In  the  fabulous  history  of  Eng- 
land, it  is  related  that  the  first  inhab- 
itants were  subdued  by  Albion,  a  giaut 
and  a  son  of  Neptune,  who  called  the 
island  after  his  own  name,  and  ruled  it 
forty-four  years.  Another  legend  derives 
the  name  from  a  certain  Albina,  tlie 
eldest  of  fifty  daughters  of  '"a  strange 
Dioclesian  king  of  Syria."'  who,  having 
murdered  their  husbands  on  their  mar- 
riage-night, one  only  excepted,  whom  his 
wife's  loyalty  saved,  were  by  him,  at  the 
5uit  of  his  wife,  their  sister,  not  put  to 
death,  but  turned  out  to  sea  in  a  ship 
unmanned,  and  who,  as  the  tale  goes, 
were  driven  on  this  island,  where  they 
had  issue  by  the  inhabitants,  —  none  but 
devils,  as  some  write,  or.  as  others  assert, 
a  lawless  crew,  without  head  or  governor. 
Milton  characterizes  these  stories  as  '"  too 
absurd  and  too  uncf)nscionably  gross" 
for  credence ;  but    he    remarks,   "  Sure 


for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  6e3  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ALB 


10 


ALC 


lale  as  the  twelfth  century,  call  the 
country  of  the  Scottish  Gael  Alban. 
[Written  also  A  1  b  i  n  and  A  1  b  i  n  n.] 

The  Celtic  people  of  Erin  and  Alhyn  had, 
in  short,  a  style  of  poetry  properly  called 
natiiinul,  though  Maci)her8on  was  rather  an 
excellent  poet  than  a  faithful  editor  and  trans- 
lator. Sir  W.  Scott. 

The  pure  Culdees 
Were  Albyn's  earliest  priests  of  God, 

Ere  yet  an  island  of  her  seas 
By  foot  of  Saxon  monk  was  trod. 

Campbell. 
But  woe  to  his  kindred  and  woe  to  his  cause. 
When  Albin  her  claymore  indignantly  (Iraws. 

Cainjjbell. 

Alceste  (sl'sesf).  The  hero  of  Mo- 
liere's  comedy,  "Le  Misanthrope." 

1^^  "  Alceste  i.s  an  upright  and  manly 
character,  but  rude,  and  impatient  even 
of  tlie  ordinary  civilities  of  life,  and  the 
harmless  hypocrisies  of  complaisance,  by 
which  the  ugliness  of  human  nature  is 
in  some  degree  disguised."  Sir  W.  Sr.nii. 
"  Moliere  exhibited,  in  his  •  Misanthrope,' 
a  pure  and  noble  mind  which  had  been 
sorely  vexed  by  the  sight  of  perfidy  and 
malevolence  disguised  under  the  forms  of 
politeness.  He  adopts  a  standard  of  good 
and  evil  directly  opposed  to  that  of  the  so- 
ciety- which  surrounded  him.  Courtesy 
seems  to  him  a  vice,  and  those  stem  vir- 
tues which  are  neglected  by  the  fops  and 
coquettes  of  faris  become  too  exclusively 
the  objects  of  his  veneration.  He  is  often 
to  blame,  he  is  often  ridiculous,  but  he 
is  always  a  good  man."  Macaulay. 

Al-ces'tis,  or  Al-ces'te.  [Gr.  'A-Akij- 
orcg,  or  A/iAcnr?/.]  (Gr.  <f  Rom. 
Jfijth.)  A  daughter  of  Pelias,  and 
the  wife  of  Admetus.  To  save  her 
hu.sband's  life,  she  died  in  his  stead, 
but  was  brought  back  to  the  upper 
world  by  Hercules. 

Methou^ht  I  saw  my  late  espoused  saint 

Brought  to  me  like  Alce.^ii.i  from  the  grave. 

Whom  Jove's  great  son  to  her  glad  husband 

gave. 

Rescued  from  death  by  force,  though    pale 

and  faint.  Milton. 

Al-ci'des.  [Gr.  'A;i/cf<%.]  (Gr.  if 
Ram.  .ffi/th.)  A  patronymic  or  title 
of  Hercules,  the  grandson  of  Alcaeus. 
See  Hekcules. 

Alcina  (al-che'na).  A  fair\-  in  Bo- 
jardo's  "Orlando  Innamorato,"  where 
she  is  represented  as  carrying  off  As- 
tolfo.  She  re-appears  in  great  splen- 
dor in  Ariosto's  "  Orlando  Kurioso." 

The  scene,  thotigh  pleasing,  was  not  quite 
equal  to  the  gardens  of  Alcina.     Sir  IV.  Scott 

U^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


enough  we  are  that  Britain  hath  been 
anciently  termed  Albion,  both  by  the 
Greeks  and  Jlomans." 

Not  vet  enslaved,  not  wholly  vile, 

O  Afhion,  O  my  mother  islel  Coleridge. 

Al'bi-on,  New.  A  name  formerly 
given  to  an  extensive  tract  of  land 
on  the  north-west  coast  of  North 
America.  It  was  originally  applied 
by  Sir  Francis  Drake,  in  1578,  to  the 
whole  of  what  was  then  called  Cali- 
fornia; but  it  was  afterward  contined 
to  that  part  of  the  coast  which  ex- 
tends Irom  43^  to  48^  X.  lat.,  and  is 
now  included  within  the  State  of 
Oregon  and  Washington  Territory. 

AlBorak  (al  bor'ak).  [Ar.,  the  light- 
ning.] An  imaginary  animal  of  won- 
derful form  and  qualities,  on  which 
Mohammed  pretended  to  have  per- 
formed a  nocturnal  journey  from  the 
temple  of  Mecca  to  Jerusalem,  and 
thence  to  the  seventh  heaven,  under 
the  conduct  of  the  angel  Gabriel. 
This  marvelous  steed  was  a  female, 
of  a  milk-white  color,  and  of  in- 
credible swiftness.  At  every  step,  she 
took  a  leap  as  far  as  the  longest  sight 
could  reach.  She  had  a  human  face, 
but  the  cheeks  of  a  horse;  her  eyes 
were  a<  jacinths,  and  radiant  as  stars. 
She  had  eagle's  wings,  all  glittering 
with  rays  of  light;  and  lier  whole 
form  was  resplendent  with  gems  and 
precious  stones. 

Albracca  (al-brSk'ka,  102).  A  castle 
of  Cathay  to  which  Angelica,  in  Bo- 
jardo's  ''Orlando  Innamorato,"  re- 
tires in  grief  at  being  scorned  and 
.<!hunned  by  Kinaldo,  with  whom  she 
is  deeply  in  love.  Here  she  is  be- 
sieged by  Agricane,  king  of  Tartary, 
who  resolves  to  win  her,  notwith- 
standing her  rejection  of  his  suit. 

Al'byn  (aPbin).  The  ancient  Celtic 
name  of  Scotland,  and,  until  Cesar's 
time,  the  ap]x'llation  of  the  whole 
island  of  Great  Britain.  It  is  said  to 
be  derived  from  the  Celtic  alp  or  alb, 
meaning  /ii(//i,  and  inn,  an  island. 
The  Scottish  Celts  denominate  them- 
selves (rael  Alhinn,  or  Albitnucli,  in 
distinction  from  the  Irish,  whom  they 
call  Gael  Kirinnich  ;  and  the  Irish 
themselves  call  tlie  Scottish  Gael 
Albannaicli,  while   their   writers,   so 


ALC 


11 


ALL 


Al-cin'o-us.  [Gr.  'A?.Kivooc.]  {Gr. 
i/  Rom.  Myth.)  A  kiii^  of  Drepane, 
or,  as  some  say,  of  I'luvacia,  who  en- 
tertained the  Argonauts  on  their  re- 
turn from  Colcliis,  and  Ulysses  when 
he  was  shipwrecked. 

Al'ci-phr6ii.  [Gr.  'AA/tf^pwy,  from 
uAKT},  strength,  spirit,  and  fp^^, 
heart,  breast.] 

1.  A  freethinking  interlocutor  in 
Bishop  Berkeley's  work  of  the  same 
name,  —  otherwise  called  the  "Mi- 
nute Philosopher," — a  work  "writ- 
ten with  an  nitention  to  expose  the 
weakness  of  intidelity." 

2.  The  hero  of  Thomas  Moore's 
romance,  "The  Epicurean,"  and  also 
the  title  of  a  poem  by  the  same  au- 
thor. 

We  lonj;  to  see  one  good  solid  rock  or  tree, 
on  which  to  fasten  our  attention ;  but  there  is 
none.  Like  Alciphroti  we  swing  in  air  and 
darkness,  and  know  not  whither  the  wind 
blow8  us.  Putnam's  Mag. 

Alc-me'na.  [Gr. 'Aa/c^^vt?.]  (r7r.cf 
Rom.  Myth.)  The  wife  of  Am]:>hit- 
n'on,  and  the  mother  of  Hercules  by 
Jupiter,  Avho  visited  her  in  the  dis- 
guise of  her  husband.     See  Amphit- 

KYON. 

Alcofribas  Nasier  (aPko'fre'bft'  na'- 
se'^',  44).  An  anagrammatic  pseu- 
donym of  Fran(^ois  Rabelais  (1483- 
15.53),  the  celebrated  French  ro- 
mancer. 

Al-cy'o-ne.  [Gr. 'AA/cwi;?;.]  ((7r.  cf 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  ^olus, 
and  the  wife  of  Ceyx.  On  hearing 
of  her  husband's  death  by  ship^vreck, 
she  threw  herself  into  the  sea,  and 
was  changed  by  the  gods  into  a 
kingfisher.  [Written  also  Haley- 
one.] 

Al'da  (al'da),  or  Al-da-bella  (3l-da- 
bel^la,  102).  The  name  given  to  the 
wife  of  Orlando,  and  sister  of  Oliver, 
in  the  romantic  poems  of  Italy. 

Al/di-bo-ron'te-plios'co-plior'ni-o. 
1.  A  character  in  Henry  Carey's  play 
of  "  Chrononhotonthologos." 

I  felt  as  if  my  understandinpr  were  no 
longer  my  own,  but  was  iiUernat<'Iy  under 
the  dominion  of  Aldihoronir)}hot!rophoTnio, 
and  that  of  his  facetious  friend  Rigdiim  Fun- 
nidos.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

2.  A  nickname  given  by  Sir  Wai- 
ter Scott  to  his  school-mate,  printer, 


partner,  and  confidential  friend, 
James  13allantyne,  on  account  of  liis 
solemn  and  rather  pompous  manner- 
See  Kl(iL)UM  FUNNlI>OS. 

Al'din-gar,  Sir.  A  character  in  an 
ancient  legend,  and  the  title  of  a 
celebrated  ballad,  preserved  in  Per- 
cy's "  Reliques,"  which  relates  how 
the  honor  of  Queen  Eleanor,  wife  of 
Henry  H.  of  England,  impeached  by 
Sir  Aldingar,  her  steward,  was  sul)- 
mitted  to  the  chance  of  a  duel,  and 
how  an  angel,  in  the  Ibrm  of  a  little 
child,  appeared  as  her  champion,  and 
estabUshed  her  innocence. 

A-lec'to.  [Gr.  'AXtjutu.]  {Gr.  (f 
Rum.  Myth.)  One  of  the  three  Furies. 

Alexander  of  the  North.  A  sur- 
name conferred  upon  Charles  xn.  of 
Sweden  ( l(i82-i(  i8),  who.se  military 
genius  and  success  bore  some  re- 
semblance to  those  of  the  Macedonian 
conqueror. 

A-lex'is.  A  youth  of  great  beauty,  of 
whom  the  shepherd  Corydon,  in  Vir- 
gil's .second  Eclogue,  was  enamored. 

Alfadur  (aPfS/difof).  [That  is,  All- 
Father.]  {Satufl.  Myth.)  A  name 
given  to  the  Supreme  Being,  the  un- 
created, eternal,  and  omnipresent 
Deity,  who.'^e  nature  and  attributes 
were  unknown.  The  name  was  also 
used  as  a  title  of  Odin.     See  Odin. 

Anen-a-Dale.  The  hero  of  an  old 
ballad  which  relates  how  his  mar- 
riage to  his  true  love  —  who  was  on 
the  point  of  being  forcibly  wedded 
to  an  old  knight  —  was  brought  about 
by  Robin  Hood.  Allen-a-Dale  is  de- 
scribed as  "a  brave  young  man," 
gayly  dressed,  who 

"  did  frisk  it  over  the  plain, 
And  chanted  a  roundelay." 

Where  is  Alhn-a-DnJe,  to  chronicle  me  in  ft 
ballad,  or  if  it  were  but  a  lay?      Sir  W.  Scott. 

Alliance,  Grand.  See  Grand  Alt- 
liance;  and  for  Hoi.Y  Allt.vnce, 
Quadruple  Alliance,  Triple 
Alliance,  see  the  respective  adjec- 
tives Holy,  Quadruple,  &c. 

All-the-Talents  Administration. 
An  administration  formed  by  Lord 
Grenville  on  the  death  of  Mr.  Pitt 
(June  23,  1806).  The  friends  of  this 
ministry  gave  it  the  appellation  of 


and  for  the  Remarka  and  Rules  to  ipriiich  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


ALL 


12 


ALS 


in  Dryden's  tragedy  of  "  The  Con-, 
quest  of  Granada." 

After  all,  I  fa\  with  Almanzor, — 

"  Know  that  \  alone  am  king  f)f  me." 

.Sir  W.  Scott. 

Almighty  Dollar.  A  personification 
of  tlie  supposed  object  of  American 
idolatry,  intended  as  a  satire  upon 
the  prevailing  passion  for  gain.  The 
expression  originated  with  Washing- 
ton Irving. 

The  Almighty  Dollar,  that  i^eat  object  of 
universal  devotion  throufjhout  our  land, 
Bcems  to  have  no  genuine  devotees  in  thc8» 
peculiar  villages. 

W.  Irving,  The  Creole  Village. 

Alp.  The  hero  of  Byron's  "  Siege  of 
Corinth." 

Alph.  A  river  mentioned  bv  Coleridge 
in  his  poem  entitled  ''  Kubla  Khan," 
composed  during  a  dream,  imme- 
diately after  a  perusal  of  Purchas's 
"  Pilgrimage,"  and  Avritten  down 
from  memory.  This  name  is  not 
found  in  Purchas,  but  was  invented 
by  Coleridge,  and  was  probably  sug- 
gested by  the  Alpheus  of  classical 
mythology'. 

"In  Xanadu  did  Knhla  Khan 

A  stiitely  pleasure-dome  decree, 
Where  Aljih,  the  sacred  river,  ran 
Through  cavern.^  measureless  to  man, 
Down  to  a  sunless  sea." 

Alquife  (al-ke'fa).  A  personage  who 
figures  in  almost  all  the  books  of  the 
lineage  of  Amadis  as  a  potent  wizard. 

Then  .  .  .  thou  hadst  not.  as  now.  .  .  .  con- 
verted, in  thy  vain  imagination,  honest  Grif- 
fiths, citizen  "and  broker.  .  .  .  into  snnie  .  .  . 
sage  Alquit'e,  the  mystical  and  magical  pro- 
tector of  thy  peerless  destiny. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Al  Rakim  (ar  ra-keem')-  [Ar..  from 
rnkmn,  to  write,  mhinuli,  something 
written  or  sent.]  A  tabulous  dog 
connectf'd  Avith  the  legend  of  the 
Seven  Sleepers.  The  ]\Iohamnu'dans 
have  given  him  a  place  in  Paradise, 
where  he  has  the  care  of  all  letters 
and  correspondence.  See  Seven 
Sleepers. 

Al-sa'ti-5  (al-sa'shi-5).  A  popular 
name  formerly  given  to  Whitefriars, 
a  precinct  in  I-ondon.  without  the 
Temple,  and  Avest  of  Rlackfriars.  It 
Avas  for  a  long  time  an  asylum  or 
sanctuarA'  for  insol\-ent  debtors  and 
persons  Avho  had  oftendf<1  against 
the  laAvs.     The  scene  of  Shadwell's 

ear  r  »  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation* 


"All-the-Talents,"  which,  b3ing  ech- 
oed in  derision  by  the  Opposition,  be- 
came fi.xed  upon  it  ever  after.  The 
death  of  Mr.  Fox,  one  of  the  mem- 
bers, Sept.  13,  1800,  led  to  various 
changes,  and  tliis  ministry  Avas  finally 
dis.solved  in  March,  1807. 

jg^  The  members  composing  it  were 
as  follows :  — 

Lord  (irenville,  First  Lord  of  the  Treas- 
ury. 

Earl  Fitzwilliam,  Lord  President. 

Viscount  Sidmouth  (Henry  Adding- 
ton),  rrivy  Seal. 

Kt.  Hou.  Charles  James  Fox,  Foreign 
Seal. 

Earl  Spencer,  Home  Secretary. 

■\Villiam  \Vindham,  Colonial  Secretary. 

Lord  Erskine.  I^ord  Chancellor. 

Sir  Charles  Grey  (afterwards  Viscount 
Howick,  and  Earl  Grey).  Admiralty. 

Lord  Minto,  Board  of  Control. 

Lord  Auckland,  hoard  of  Trade. 

Lord  Moira,  Master  -  General  of  the 
Ordnance. 

Mr.  Sheridan,  Treasurer  of  the  Navy. 

lit.  Hon.  Richard  Fitzpatrick. 

Lord  EUenhorough  (Lord  Chief  Justice) 
had  a  seat  in  the  Cabinet. 

Allwortliy,  Mr.  A  character  in 
Fielding's  novel  of  "Tom  .Jones," 
distinguished  for  his  Avorth  and 
benevolence.  This  character  Avas 
draAvn  for  Fielding's  private  friend, 
Ralph  Allen,  of  Avhom  Pope  said,  — 

"  Let  humble  Allen,  with  an  awkward  shame. 
Do  good   by   stealth,  and  blush  to  find  it 

fame. 
The  sturdy  rectitude,  the  large  charitA'.  the 
good  nature,  the  modesty,  the  independent 
epirit,  the  ardent  philanthropy,  the  unaffected 
indifference  to  money  ;ind  to  fame,  make  up 
a  character,  which,  while  it  has  nothing  un- 
natural, seems  to  us  to  approach  nearer  to 
perfection  than  anv  of  the  Grandisons  and 
Alhrorthi/s  of  fictioii.  Macaulap. 

Al-main'.  [Loav  Lat.  Ahmnnnia,  Fr. 
Alh-iii'irjne,  Sp.  Ahunnl  < ;  from  Ale- 
mrtnm\  the  collecti\'e  name  of  seA^eral 
ancient  German  tribes  in  the  A^cinity 
of  the  Lower  and  Middle  Main; 
from  Celt,  alhnnn,  a  stranger,  for- 
eigner, from  (dJ^  another,  mnn,  place.] 
An  old  English  name  lor  Germany. 

I    have    seen    Almain's    proud    champions 

prance: 
Have  seen  the  gallant  knight.sof  France;  .  .  . 
Have  seen  the  sons  of  England  true 
Wield  the  brown  V)ill  and  bend  the  yew. 
Search  France  the  fair,  and  England  free. 
But  bonny  Blue-cap  still  for  me!     Old  Song. 

AJ-man'zor.     A  prominent  character 


ALS 


13 


AMA 


comed}'  of  the  "Squire  of  Alsatia" 
is  laid  in  this  place;  and  Scott  has 
rendered  it  fannliar  to  all  readers  by 
his  "  Fortunes  of  Migel." 

jK^  "  It  is  not  unlikt'ly  that  the 
Laudgra^iate  of  Alsace  [Ger.  Elf  as.'!,  Lat. 
Alsatiit]  —  MOW  t'le  frontier  province  of 
France,  on  the  left  bank  of  the  Rhiue, 
long  a  cause  of  contention,  often  the  seat 
of  war,  and  f  luiiliarly  known  to  many 
British  soldiers  —  suggested  the  applica- 
tion of  the  niuie  Ahatia  to  ^.he  precinct 
of  W'hitefriars.  This  privileged  spot  stood 
in  the  same  relation  to  th<?  Temple  as 
Alsace  did  to  France  and  the  cfntral 
powers  of  Kurope.  In  the  Temple,  ."tu- 
dents  were  studying  to  observe  the  law  ; 
and  in  Alsatia,  adjoining,  debtors  to  avoid 
and  violate  it.  Tlie  Alsatians  were  troub- 
lesome neigh boifs  to  the  Templars,  ancf 
the  Templars  as  troublesome  neignbors 
to  the  Alsatians."  Cunnintiliani. 

The  furious  German  comes,  with  his  clarions 
and  hi.s  driiiii.s, 

His  bravoes  of  Alsatia,  and  pages  of  White- 
hall. Macaalaij. 

Al  Sirat  (as  se-rStO-  [Ar.,  the  path.] 
A  bridge  extending  from  this  world 
to  the  next,  over  the  abyss  of  hell, 
which  must  be  passed  by  every  one 
who  would  enter  the  Mohamme'dan 
paradise.  It  is  very  narrow,  the 
breadth  being  less  than  the  tliread 
of  a  famished  spider,  according  to 
some  writers;  others  compare  it  to 
the  edge  of  a  sword,  or  of  a  razor. 
The  deceased  cross  Avith  a  rapidity 
proportioned  to  their  virtue.  Some, 
it  is  said,  pass  with  the  swiftness  of 
lightning,  others  with  the  speed  of  a 
horse  at  full  gallop,  others  like  a 
horse  at  a  slow  pace,  others  still 
slower,  on  account  of  the  weight  of 
their  sins,  and  many  fall  down  from  it, 
and  are  precipitated  into  hell. 

Am'a-dis  de  Gaul.  [Sp.  Amadis  de 
Gniila.]  The  hero  of  an  ancient 
and  celebrated  romance  of  chivalry, 
originally  the  work  of  a  Portuguese, 
Vasco  de  Lobeira,  who  died,  as  Tick- 
nor  conjectures,  in  1403.  It  was 
translated  into  Spanish  bv  Montalvo, 
between  1492  and  1504.'^  The  Por- 
,  guese  original  is  no  longer  extant, 
/i  French  version  was  made  by  Her- 
beray,  and  was  j)rinted,  in  1555,  under 
the  mistranslated  title  of  "  Amadis 
des  Gaules,"  meaning  France.  In 
the  original  romance,  Gaulais  Wales; 


and  the  subject,  characters,  and  lo» 
calities  are  British.  The  other  Am- 
adises  that  ligiire  in  romance  are 
represented  as  descendauts,  more  or 
less  remote,  of  Amadis  de  Gaul.  He 
himself  was  a  love-child  of  a  labulous 
King  I'eriun  of  Wales,  and  of  LlLsena, 
a  British  princess. 

.^-mai'mdn,  or  A-may'inon.  An 
imaginary  king  of  the  East,  one  of 
the  principal  devils  who  might  be 
bound  or  restrained  from  doing  hurt 
from  the  third  hour  till  noon,  and 
from  the  nintli  hour  till  evening. 
He  is  alluded  to  in  Shakespeare'? 
"1  Henry  IV."  (a.  ii.,  sc.  4),  and 
"  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor"  (a.  ii., 
sc.  2).  According  to  Holme,  he  wasi 
"  the  chief  whose  dominion  is  on  the 
north  part  of  the  infernal  gulf;  "  but 
Mr.  Christmas  says  he  rided  over  the 
easternmost  of  the  four  provinces 
into  which  the  Avorld  of  devils  was 
thought  to  b^.  divided.  Asmodeus 
was  his  lieutenujit. 

Am^ai-thee'a.  [Gr.'Af.a?.^ELn.]  (Gr. 
ij'  Jiijjji.  Mijdi.)  The  name  of  a  goat 
with  wliose  milk  the  infant  Jupiter 
was  fed,  and  one  of  vhose  horns  he 
is  said  to  have  broken  oflf,  and  given 
to  the  daughters  of  INr-^lisseus,  a 
Cretan  king.  This  he  endo'»^ed  with 
such  powers,  that,  whenever  the  pos- 
sessor wished,  it  would  instantane- 
ously become  filled  with  whatcer 
might  be  desired :  hence  it  was  called 
the  cornucopin^  or  horn  of  plenty. 
According  to  other  accounts,  Amal- 
thoea  was  the  name  of  a  nymph  by 
whom  Jupiter  was  nursed  in  his  in- 
fancy. 

The  Britannic  Fountain  .  .  .  flowed  like  an 
Amnlthcea^s  horn  for  seven  years  to  come,  re- 
freshing Austria  and  all  thirsty  Prii),'matic 
Nations,  to  defend  tlie  Key-stone  of  this  I'^ni- 
verse.  C'arhjle. 

Ain'a-ryllis.  The  name  of  a  country- 
girl  in  the  Idyls  of  Theocritus  and  in 
the  Eclogues  of  Virgil,  adopted  into 
modern  pastoral  poetry  as  the  name 
of  a  mistress  or  sweetheart. 

To  sport  with  AinaryUis  in  the  shade. 

3Ulton. 

Am'a-zo'ni-a.  A  name  given  by 
Francisco  Orellana,  in  158),  to  the 
country  on  either  side  of  the  river 
Mararon,    from    the    companies    of 


and  for  tLe  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


AME 


14 


AMY 


women  in  anns  ■whom  he  observed 
on  its  banks.  He  also  ^ave  the  name 
Amazon  to  the  river,  and  it  has  since 
been  generally  known  under  this 
designation. 
i.-ine'li-a  (or  a-meel'va).  1.  The 
title  of  one  of  lielding's  novels,  and 
the  name  of  its  heroine,  "vvho  is  dis- 
tinguished for  her  conjugal  tender- 
ness and  affection.  The  character 
of  Amelia  is  said  to  have  been  drawn 
for  I'ielding's  wife,  even  down  to  an 
accident  which  distigured  her  beauty. 

]^S"  '■  To  have  invented  that  character 
is  not  only  a  triumph  of  art,  but  it  is  a 
good  actiou."  Thackeray. 

2.  A  young  woman  killed  in  her 
lover's  arms  by  a  stroke  of  lightning, 
■who  forms  the  subject  of  a  well- 
known  episode  in  the  poem  of  "  Sum- 
mer," in  Th(nuson's  "  Seasons." 

American  Fa'bi-us.  An  appellation 
often  given  to  General  Washington 
(1732-1799),  whose  militar}'  policy 
resembled  that  of  the  Roman  general 
QuintusFabius  Maximus  Ven-ucosus, 
who  conducted  operations  against 
Hannibal  by  declining  to  risk  a  bat- 
tle in  the  open  tield,  harassing  him  by 
marches,  counter-marches,  and  am- 
buscades, 
^-mine'.  A  character  in  the  "Ara- 
bian Nights'  Entertainments  "  who 
leads  her  three  sisters  by  her  side 
as  a  leash  of  hounds. 

Aminte  (a'mant',  G2).  The  assumed 
name  of  a  female  character  in  Mo- 
liere's  celebrated  c«/niedy,  "  Les 
Pr^cieuses  Ridicules."  Her  real 
name  is  Oithas^  which  she  has  dis- 
carded for  a  more  .sentimental  one, 
in  accordance  with  the  prevailing 
fashion.  She  dismisses  her  admirer 
for  proposing  to  marrv  her,  scolds 
her  uncle  (see  (iOHoihus)  for  not 
possessing  the  air  of  a  gentleman, 
Rnd  is  taken  in  by  a  valet  whom  she 
believes  to  be  a  nobleman,  and  who 
easily  imitates  the  foppery-  and  sen- 
timentalism  Avhich  she  so  much  ad- 
mires. 

ii-tnlet,  Richard.  The  name  of  a 
gamester  in  Vanbrugh's  '*  Confed- 
eracy." 

Richard  Ainlet,  Esq.,  in  the  play,  is  a  nota- 


ble instancp  of  the  disadvantnges  to  which 
this  cliiiiierical  notion  of  nffinitv constituting 
0  (■liiiiM  to  acquauituncc  may  subji'ct  the  spirit 
of  a  >,'entlLMnan.  Charii<  Lamb. 

Am^m6n.  [(ir.  'A^/zwi'.]  (Or.  c/ 
lioia.'  Myth.)  The  name  of  an 
Ethiopian'  or  Libyan  divinity,  iden- 
tified by  the  Greeks  and  Romans 
witii  Jupiter.  He  Avas  represented  in 
the  form  of  a  ram,  or  as  a  humaii 
being  with  the  head  of  a  ram,  or 
sometimes  with  only  the  horns. 
[Written  also  H amnion.] 

Am'o-ret.  The  name  of  a  lady  mar- 
ried to  Sir  Scudamore,  in  Spenser's 
"  Taery  Queen."  She  expresses  the 
affectionate  devotedness  of  a  loving 
and  tender  wife. 

Am-phi'Sn.  [Gr.  'A/z^iwi'.]  [Or. 
tj-  Rom'.  Mi/fh.)  A  son  of  Jupiter 
and  Antiope,  who  built  a  wall  round 
the  city  of  Thebes  by  the  music  of 
his  lyre.  It  is  said,' that,  when  he 
played,  the  stones  moved  of  their 
own  accord,  and  fitted  themselves  to- 
gether so  as  to  form  the  wall. 

It  was  like  a  sudden  pause  in  one  of  Am- 
p/iion'if  countrv-dances,  when  the  huts  which 
were  to  form  the  future  Thebes  were  jigi-'ing 
it  to  his  lute.  Sir  U  .  Scott. 

Am'phi-tri'te.  [Gr.  'Afidtrpin].} 
(Gr.  c/  Rom.  Mylh.)  The  wife  of 
Neptune,  goddess  of  the  sea,  and 
mother  of  Triton. 

Am-phit'ry-Sn.  [Gr.  'AfKpiTpvuv.'] 
(Gr.  ij-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Al- 
caMis  and  Hippomene.  He  was  king 
of  Thebes,  and  husband  of  Alcmena, 
who  bore  at  the  same  time  Iphicles, 
his  son,  and  Hercules,  the  son  of  Ju- 
piter. See  Alcmexa.  [Written  also 
Amphi  try  o.] 

Am'ri.     See  Father  of  Eqlity. 

Amrita  (5m-re'ta).  (Ilimhi  Jfyth.) 
A  beverage  of  inmiortality,  churned 
from  the  sea  by  the  gods,  who  were 
mortal  until  they  discovered  this  po- 
tent elixir. 

A'my s  and  A-myl'i-Sn.  Two  faith- 
ful and  sorely  tried  friends,  —  the 
Pylades  and  Orestes  of  the  feudal 
ages,  —  whose  adventures  are  the 
subject  of  a  very  ancient  romance 
bearing  these  names  for  its  title.  An 
abstract  of  the  story  is  given  in  El- 
lis's "  Specimens  of  Early  English 
Metrical  Romances." 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  £zplaaatioa% 


ANA 


15 


AND 


An'a-ghar'sis  Clootz  (kldts),  A 
name  assumed  by  IJaroii  Jean  Bap- 
tiste  Clootz,  wlio  was  born  at  (Jleves, 
in  1755.  He  conceived  the  idea  of 
reforming  the  liunian  race,  and  trav- 
eled tlirouyh  Kn^iand,  Germany, 
Italy,  &c.,  denouncing-  all  kings, 
princes,  and  rulers,  and  even  the  be- 
lly. He  called  himself  Aii(ich(rriiis, 
in  allusion  to  the  JScythian  philos- 
opher of  this  name,  who  tiourished 
about  six  centuries  before  the  Chris- 
tian era,  and  who  travekd  to  (jreece 
and  other  countries  for  the  purpose 
of  gaining  knowledge  in  order  to  im- 
prove the  people  of  his  own  country. 

A-nac're-Sn  Moore.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Thomas  Moore,  the 
{)oet,  who,  in  1801,  published  a  trans- 
ation  of  the  Odes  of  Anacreon. 

Julia  sat  within  as  pretty  a  bower 
As  e'er  held  hoiiri  in  tliat  heathenish  heaven 
Described  by  Mahomet  and  Anucrton  Moore. 

liyrun. 

i-nac're-on  of  Painters.  A  name 
given  to  Francesco  Albani  (1578- 
1660),  a  distinguished  painter  of  It- 
aly. He  was  so  called  on  account  of 
the  softness  of  his  style,  and  his  avoid- 
ance of  subjects  which  require  spir- 
ited and  energetic  treatment. 

5-nac're-6n  of  Persia.  A  title 
sometimes  given  to  Hafiz  (d.  1388), 
the  Persian  poet,  whose  odes  and 
Ivric  compositions,  like  those  of 
Anacreon,  celebrate  the  pleasures  of 
love  and  wine. 

A-nac're-6n  of  the  Guillotine.  A 
name  given  by  the  French  to  Ber- 
trand  Barere  (or  Barrere)  de  Vieuzac 
(1755-1841),  president  of  the  Nation- 
al Convention  in  17^12,  on  account  of 
the  flowery  and  poetical  language  in 
which  he  spoke  upon  all  the  meas- 
ures of  the  reign  of  terror.  See 
Witling  of  Tehhor. 

An'Ss-ta'si-us  (an'as-ta'zhi-us).  The 
hero  and  title  of  a  novel  by  Thomas 
Hope  (177()-18;}1),  — a  work  purport- 
ing to  be  the  autobiography  of  a 
Greek,  who,  to  escape  the  conse- 
quences of  his  own  crimes  and  vil- 
lainies of  every  kind,  becomes  a  ren- 
egade, and  passes  through  a  long 
series  of  the  most  extraordinary  and 
romantic  vicissitudes. 


Anastasius  Griin.  See  Grun,  Anas- 

T  A  NIL'S. 

An-c8B'us.  [Gr. 'Ay/cfuof.]  ( 6V.  (| 
Rom.  Mi/tli.)  A  son  of  Neptune 
who,  havnig  left  a  cup  of  wine  un- 
tasted  to  pursue  a  wild  boar,  was 
killed  by  it,  which  gave  rise  to  the 
proverb,  "  There  's  many  a  slip  be- 
tween the  cup  and  the  lip." 

An-chi'ses.  [Gr.  'Ayxior/r.]  {Gr.  4" 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Capys  and 
Themis,  and  the  father  of  ^Eiieas  by 
Venus.  He  survived  the  cajjture  of 
Troy,  and  was  can-ied  by  ^Eneas  on 
his  shoulders  from  the  burning  city. 

Ancient  Mariner.  The  hero  of  Cole- 
ridge's poem  of  the  same  name, 
who,  for  the  crime  of  having  shot  an 
albatross,  a  bird  of  good  omen  to 
voyagers,  sutlers  dreadful  penalties, 
together  with  his  companions,  who 
have  made  themselves  accomplices  in 
his  crime.  These  penalties  are  at  last 
remitted  in  consequence  of  his  re- 
pentance. He  reaches  land,  where 
he  encounters  a  hermit,  to  whom  he 
relates  his  story ; 

"  Since  then,  at  an  uncertain  hour, 
Tbe  agony  returns," 

and  drives  him  on,  like  the  Wander- 
ing Jew,  from  land  to  land,  compelled 
to  relate  the  tale  of  his  suffering  and 
crime  as  a  warning  to  others,  and  as 
a  lesson  of  love  and  charity  towards 
all  God's  creatures. 

4@=  The  conception  of  this  poem  and 
the  mystical  imagery  of  the  skelerou-ship 
are  said  by  Dyce  to  have  been  borrowed 
by  Coleridge  from  a  friend  who  had  ex- 
perienced a  strange  dream.  But  De 
Quincey  asserts  that  the  germ  of  the  story 
is  contained  in  a  pai^sage  of  Shelvocke, 
one  of  the  classical  ( ircumnavigators  of 
the  earth,  who  states  that  his  second  cap. 
tain,  being  a  melanclioly  man,  was  pos- 
sessed  by  a  fancy  that  some  long  sensor 
of  foul  weather  was  owing  to  an  albatross 
which  had  steadily  pursued  the  ship, 
upon  which  he  shot  the  bird,  but  with- 
out mending  their  condition. 

Andrews,  Joseph.  The  title  of  a 
novel  by  Fielding,  and  the  nmne  of 
its  hero,  a  footman  who  marries  a 
maid -servant.  To  ridicule  Kich- 
ardson's  "  Pamela,"  Fielding  made 
Joseph  Andrews  a  brother  of  that 
renowned  lady,  and,  by  way  of  con- 


■nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


AND 


16 


AXG 


trast  to  Richardson's  hero,  repre- 
sented him  as  a  model  of  virtue  and 
excellence. 

JStv'  "  t''i»i  accounts  of  Joseph's  brav- 
ery aud  t^ooil  qualities,  his  voice  too  musi- 
cal to  halloo  to  the  dogs,  his  bravtry  ia 
ridiii!^  races  for  the  geatlemeu  of  tiie 
county,  and  his  constancy  in  refusing 
bribes  and  temptation,  have  sometliiag 
refreshing  in  their  naiveti  and  freshness, 
»nd  prepossess  one  in  favor  of  that  hand- 
some >oung  hero."'  Thackeray. 

An-drom'S-ghe.  [Gr.  ^ Avipouuxv ■] 
{Gr.  c/  Rom.  Mtft/i.)  A  daughter 
of  Eetioii,  and  the  fond  wife  of  Hec- 
tor, by  whom  she  had  Astyanax. 
She  is'one  of  the  noblest  and  loveli- 
est female  characters  in  Homer's  "  Il- 
iad." 

An-drom'e-da.  [Gr.  'Audpousdrj.] 
{Gr.  c/  Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter 
of  Cepheus,  king  of  Ethiopia,  and 
of  Cassiopeia.  Her  mother  having 
boasted  that  her  beauty  surpassed 
that  of  the  Nereids,  Andromeda 
was  exposed  to  a  sea-monster,  but 
was  found,  saved,  and  married  by 
Perseus. 

An-geft'i-cS.  An  intidel  princess  of 
exquisite  beauty  and  consummate 
coquetry,  in  Bojardo's  "  Orlando  In- 
namorato."  She  is  represented  to 
have  come  all  the  way  from  farthest 
Asia  to  sow  dissension  among  the 
Christians  in  Paris,  who  were  be- 
sieged by  two  hosts  of  infidels,  one 
from  Spain,  and  another,  which  had 
landed  in  the  south  of  France,  from 
Africa.  Among  many  others,  Or- 
lando falls  desperately  in  love  with 
her,  forgetting,  for  her  sake,  his  wife, 
his  sovereign,  his  country,  his  glory, 
in  shcu't,  every  thing  except  his  relig- 
ion. She,  however,  cares  nothing 
for  him.  having  fallen  madly  in  love 
with  liinaldo,  in  consetjuence  of 
drinking  at  an  enchanted  fountain. 
On  the  other  hand,  Rinaldo,  from 
drinking  at  a  neighboring  fountain 
of  exactly  the  opposite  quality,  can- 
not abide  her.  Various  adventures 
arise  out  of  these  circumstances;  and 
the  fountains  are  again  drunk,  with 
a  mutual  reversal  of  their  effects. 
Ariosto,  in  his  "  Orlando  Furioso," 
took    up   the  thread  of   Angelica's 


story  where  Bojardo  had  left  it,  find 
making  the  jilt  fall  in  love  herself 
wuii  jledoro,  an  obscure  youthful 
scjuire,  he  represents  Orlando  as 
driven  mad  by  jealousy  and  indig- 
nati(ni.  Angelica  is  celebrated  n^r 
the  possession  of  a  nia^ic  ring,  which, 
placed  on  the  finger,  defended  the 
wearer  from  all  spells,  and,  concealed 
in  the  mouth,  rendered  the  person  in- 
visible.    See  Agkic'ane. 

jft:^ ''Angelica,  noted  in  romance  aa 
the  faithless  lady  for  whose  sake  Orlando 
lost  his  heart  and  his  senses,  was  a  gra> 
tuitous  invention  of  Bojardo  aud  .\rioeto  j 
for  .Spanish  ballads  and  earlier  Italian 
poets  make  him  the  faithful  husband  of 
Alda  or  Uelicda."  Yoiige. 

The  fairt'st  of  her  sex,  Angelica, 
.  .  .  sought  by  many  prowest  knights, 
Both  puiuim  and  the  peers  of  Charleniain. 

Jliltoiu 

Angelic  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  An- 
(/e/icus.]  Thomas  Aquinas  (1227- 
1274),  the  most  famous  of  the  medi- 
a;val  schoolmen  and  divines. 

j^^  Aquinas  was  extravagantly  ad- 
mired by  his  followers.  One  of  his  com- 
mentators endeavors  to  prove  that  he 
wrote  with  a  special  infusion  of  the  Spirit 
of  Gol ;  that  he  received  many  things  by 
direct  revelation,  and  that  Christ  had 
given  anticipatorv  testimony  to  his  writ- 
ings. Peter  Labbe  says,  that,  as  he 
learned  some  things  from  the  angels,  so 
he  taught  the  angels  some  things:  that 
he  had  said  what  St.  Paul  was  not  per- 
mitted to  utt«r ;  and  that  he  speaks  of 
God  AS  if  he  had  seen  him,  and  of  Christ 
as  if  he  had  been  his  voice. 

We  extol  Bacon,  and  (.r.eer  at  Aquinas. 
But,  if  the  situations  had  been  changed. 
Bacon  might  have  been  the  Angelic  Doctor. 

Macaulay. 

Ang61ique  (on'zha'lek',  G2).  1.  The 
heroine  of  Moliere's  comedy,  "  Le 
Malade  Imaginaire." 

2.  The  wife  of  George  Dandin,  in 
Moliere's  comedy  of  this  name.  See 
Daxdin,  George. 

An'ge-lo.  1.  The  deputy  of  Vincen- 
tio,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Measure  for 
Measure."  At  first  he  exercises  his 
delegated  power  with  rigor  and  seem- 
ing conscientiousness,  but  only  to 
enable  him  the  more  safely  to  gratify 
his  base  passion  for  Isabella,  the  sis- 
ter of  a  young  nobleman  named 
Claudio.  His  design,  however,  is 
thwarted,    and    his    hypocrisy    un- 


tSS-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation!, 


ANG 


17 


ANT 


masked,  by  a  counteracting  intrigue 
of  Viuceutio's,  which,  aided  and  fa- 
vored by  chance,  rescues  Isabella, 
and  punishes  Angelo  by  compcllnig 
him  to  marry  ^lariana,  a  woman 
whom  he  hatl  a  long  time  before  sc;- 
duced  and  abandoned. 

2.  A  goldsmith  in   Shakespeare's 
"Comedy  of  Errors." 

^gel  of  the  Schools.  A  title  given 
to  Thomas  Aquinas,  the  most  cele- 
brated metaphysician  of  the  Middle 
Ages.     See  A^■GELIC  Doctok. 

^jigurvardel  (iing'g(X)f-var'del).  [Tcel. 
a  stream  of  anguish.  J  The  sword  of 
Frithiof.  The  blade  was  inscribed 
with  runic  letters,  which  shone  dimly 
in  peace,  but  gleamed  with  a  won- 
drous ruddy  light  in  time  of  war. 
See  Fkithiof.  [Written  also  An- 
gu  r  wadel.] 

Gloriously  known  was  the  sword,  the  first  of 
all  swords  m  the  Northland. 

Up.  I'egner,  Trans. 

Ajine,  Sister.     See  Sister  Anne. 

An-t8e'us.  [Gr.  'Avralng.']  {Ur.  cf 
Horn.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Neptune  and 
Terra,  a  famous  Libyan  giant  and 
wrestler,  wliose  strength  was  invinci- 
ble so  long  as  he  remained  in  contact 
with  his  mother  earth.  Hercules  dis- 
covered the  source  of  his  might,  lifted 
him  up  from  the  eartn,  and  crushed 
him  in  "lie  air. 

As  when  Earth's  son  Anta^i.t  (to  compare 
Small  things  with  grreatest)  in  Irassa  strove 
With  Ji>"e*s  Alcides,  and,  oft  foiled,  still  rose, 
Receiving  from  his  mother  earth  new  strength 
Fresh  from  his  fall,  and  fiercer  grapple  joined; 
Throttled  at  length  in  air,  expired  and  fell: 
So,  after  many  a  foil,  the  tempter  prond, 
Renewing  fresh  assaults  amidst  his  pride, 
Fell  whence  he  stood  to  see  his  victor  fall. 

2Iilton. 

Ajit'e-r6s.  [Gr.  'Avrepo)^.]  {Gr.  (f 
Bom.  Myth.)  A  deity  opposed  to 
Eros,  or  Love,  and  fighting  against 
him  ;  usually,  however,  regarded  as  a 
god  who  avenged  slighted  love.  He 
is  sometimes  represented  as  the  sym- 
bol of  reciprocal  affection. 

ftji'ti-christ.  Literally,  the  opponent 
of  the  anointed,  or  of  the  Messiah. 
The  name  of  Antichrist  was  given  by 
the  Jews  and  Christians  to  the  great 
enemy  of  true  religion,  who  shall,  ac- 
cording to  the  Holy  Scriptures,  ap- 
pear before  the  coming  of  the  Messiah 


in  his  glory.  The  name  occurs  in 
the  liible  in  the  Ibllowing  places 
only:  —  !  .John  ii.  18,  22;  iv.  ii\  2 
Jdha  7.  The  "man  of  sin,"  wliose 
coining  is  foretold  by  St.  Paul,  2 
Thtss.  ii.,  is  supposed  to  be  the  same 
with  Antichrist.  l^ml)lematic  descrip- 
tions of  him  occur  in  the  12th  and 
13th  chapters  of  the  Revelniion.  The- 
ological writers  have  indulged  in 
many  and  the  most  diverse  and  faii- 
citul  speculations  respecting  this  great 
advert>ary  of  Christianity;  but  the 
prevalent  opinion  among  Protestant 
divines  has  always  connected  him 
with  the  Roman  Catholic  church.  At 
the  Council  of  Cap,  in  IGU^J,  the  re- 
formed ministers  there  assembled  in- 
serted an  article  in  their  Coutiessioa 
of  1  aith,  in  which  the  Pope  is  pro- 
nounced Antichrist.  Grotius  and 
most  Roman  Catholic  divines  con- 
sider Antichrist  as  symbolical  of  Pa- 
gan Rome  and  her  persecutions;  Le- 
clerc,  Lightfoot,  and  others,  of  the 
Jewash  Sanhedrim,  or  of  particular 
Jewish  impostors.  Many  are  of  opin- 
ion that  the  kingdom  of  Antichrist 
comprehends  all  who  are  opposed  to 
Christ,  openly  or  secretly. 

An-tig'o-ne.  [Gr.  'Avrtyovri.]  ( Gr. 
if  Bom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  CEdi- 
pus  by  his  mother  Jocasta.  She  was 
famous  for  her  filial  piety. 

An-tin'o-us.  [Gr.  'AvtivooC-]  A  page 
of  the  Emperor  Pladrian,  celebrated 
for  his  extraordinary  beauty,  and  for 
Hadrian's  extravagant  aftection  tor 
him.  After  his  death  by  drowning 
in  the  Nile,  —  about  a.  d.  122,  — he 
was  enrolled  among  the  gods,  tem- 
ples were  erected  to  him  in  Egypt 
and  Greece,  and  statues  set  up  in  al- 
most every  part  of  the  world. 

An-ti'o-pe.  [Gr.  ' Avrtovij.']  {Gr.  <f 
Bom.  Myth.)  A  favorite  of  Jupiter, 
by  whom  she  became  the  mother  of 
Amphion  and  Zethus.    See  Lycus. 

An-tiph'o-lus  of  Eph'e-sus.  )    Twin 
An-tiph'o-lus  of  Syr'a-cuse.l  broth- 
ers, sons  to  ^Egeon  and  .Emilia,  in 
Shakespeare's  "Comedy  of  Errors," 

and 

"  the  one  so  like  the  other 
As  could  not  be  distinffuished  but  by  names." 


ttid  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xivxxxil 

2 


ANT 


18 


APO 


Their  attendants  were  Dromio  of  Eph- 
esus  and    l>n)iiiio  of   Syracuse,  also 
'  twins,  and  Ijoth  alilvc  in   tlieir  per- 
sonal appearance. 

An-to'ni-o.  1.  Tlie  usurping  Duke 
of  Milan,  and  brother  to  I'rospero, 
in   Shakespeare's  '"  Tempest."      See 

PROSI'KKO. 

2.  The  tiather  of  Proteus,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Two  Gentlemen  of  A  enj- 
na." 

3.  A  minor  character  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Much  Ado  about  Nothing." 

4.  The  ''  Merchant  of  A^enice,"  in 
Shakespeare's  play  of  that  name. 
See  rouTiA. 

5.  A  sea-captain,  friend  to  Sebas- 
tian,   in     Shakespeare's     "  Twelfth 

^  Night." 

A-nu'bis.  [Gr.  "AvovjSig.l  {Ecjypt. 
Jfyth.)  A  divinity,  a  son  of  Osiris, 
worshiped  in  the  lorm  of  a  dog,  or  of 
a  human  being  with  a  dog's  head. 
He  accompanied  the  ghosts  of  the 
dead  to  the  under-world. 

Ap'e-m.an'tus.  A  churlish  philoso- 
pher, in  Shakespeare's  play,  "  Timon 
of  Athens." 

Their  affected  melancholy  showed  like  the 
cynicism  of  A/ieiniintiis  contrasted  witli  the 
real  niisauthropy  of  Timou.         Sir  W.  Scott. 

Aph'ro-di'te.  [Gr.  'Aopodiri].]  ( Gr. 
Myth.)  The  Greek  name  of  Venus, 
the  goddess  of  love,  beauty,  and  de- 
sire.   See  Yexus. 

A'pis.  [Gr.  'A-w:.]  (Efjypt.  Myth.) 
The  chief  deity  of  the  Egyptians, 
■worshiped  under  the  form  of  a  bull. 
He  is  sometimes  identified  with  Osi- 
ris and  Serapis. 

A-polTo.  [Gy.'AttoHdv.']  {Gr.  4- 
Mom.  Myth.)  The  son  of  Jupiter  and 
Latona,  and  the  brother  of  Diana, 
portrayed  with  flowing  hair  as  being 
ever  young.  He  was  the  god  of  song, 
music,  prophecy,  and  archery,  the 
punisher  and  destroyer  of  the  wicked 
and  overbearing,  the  protector  of 
flocks  and  cattle,  the  averter  of  evil, 
the  afl'order  of  help,  and  the  god  who 
delighted  in  the  foundation  of  towns 
and  the  establishment  of  civil  consti- 
tutions. By  the  later  Greeks  he  was 
identified  with  the  sun.  His  favor- 
ite residence  was  at  Mount  Parnas- 


sus, and  he  had  oracles  at  Delphi  and 

^  Delos. 

i-pol'ly-on,  or  A-poll'y6n.  [Gr. 
'Atto'aavuiv,  from  uTzoAAvvai,  to  de- 
stroy utterly,  to  ruin. J  In  the  .lew- 
ish  demonology,  an  evil  spirit,  called 
in  Hebrew  Abaddon,  and  described 
in  ^eiJ.  ix.  11,  as  "  a  king,  the  an- 
gel of  the  bottomless  pit."  He  is 
introduced  by  Bunyan  in  liis  allegor- 
ical romance  of  the  ''  Pilgrim's  Prog- 
ress." 

Apostle  of  Ardennes  (afMen',  64). 
A  title  given  to  St.  Hubert  (d.  727), 
Bishop  of  Maestrecht  and  Liege,  and 
son  of  Bertrand,  Duke  of  AquitaLne. 
He  was  so  ca.lled  from  his  zeal  in  de- 
stroying remnants  of  idolatry'. 

Apostle  of  Germany.  A  title  given 
to  St.  Boniliace  (680-755),  who,  for 
more  than  thirty  years  of  his  life, 
labored  in  the  work  of  con\'erting 
and  civilizing  the  rude  heathen  na- 
tions of  Germany. 

Apostle  of  Infidelity.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  Voltaire  (16U4- 
1778),  a  bigoted  and  intolerant  deist, 
who  avowed  a  design  of  destro\'ing 
the  Christian  religion,  and  was  un- 
ceasing in  his  attacks  upon  it  and 
upon  its  defenders. 

Apostle  of  Ireland.  St.  Patrick, 
born  near  the  end  of  the  fourth  cen- 
tury, died  in  483  or  493.  He  was 
moved  by  visions,  as  he  relates  in 
his  confessions,  to  undertake  the  con- 
version of  the  Irish  to  Christianity. 
He  established  many  churches  and 
schools,  and  made  many  converts. 

Apostle  of  Temperance.  An  hon- 
orarv  appellation  given  to  the  Kev. 
Theobald  Mathew  {1790-1856),  a  dis- 
tinguished temperance  reformer  in 
Ireland  and  England. 

J3Q=-  "  However,  as  Protestants,  we  may 
question  the  claim  of  departed  saints, 
here  is  a  livini;  minister,  if  he  may  be 
judired  from  one  work,  who  deserves  to 
be  canonized,  and  wiiose  name  should  be 
placed  in  the  calendar  not  far  below  the 
apostles."  Dr.  Channing,  1841. 

Apostle  of  the  English.  St.  Augus- 
tine, or  Austin,  who  lived  during  the 
latter  part  of  the  sixth  century.  He 
was  sent  with  forty  monks,  by  Pope 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation!, 


APO 


19 


APO 


Greprory  I.,  to  carry  Christianity  into 
England.  Such  was  his  success  that 
he  is  said  to  have  baptized  10,000 
persons  ni  a  single  day.  He  has  the 
merit  of  having  allowed  no  coercive 
measures  in  the  propagation  of  tlie 
gospel. 

Apostle  of  the  French.  A  name 
given  to  St.  Denis,  the  first  bishop  of 
Paris,  in  the  third  century.  He  was 
sent  from  Rome,  about  A.  n.  250,  to 
revive  the  drooping  churches  in  Gaul, 
and  proceeded  as  far  as  Lutetia  ( Par- 
is), where  he  made  many  converts. 
He  became  the  patron  saint  of  the 
kingdom,  and  his  name  served,  for 
many  ages,  as  a  rallying  cry  in  bat- 
tle,—  j/onljoie  St.  Denis  ! 

Apostle  of  the  Frisians.  An  ap- 
pellation commonlv  given  to  Saint 
Wilbrord,  or  Willibrod  (657-738),  a 
native  of  the  Saxon  kingdom  of 
Northumbria,  who  spent  forty-eight 
years  of  his  life  in  Friesland  in  preach- 
ing Christianity,  and  endeavoring  to 
convert  the  i^eople  from  paganism  to 
the  true  faith. 

Apostle  of  the  Gauls.  St.  Irenteus, 
presbyter,  and  afterward  bishop,  of 
Lyons,  near  the  close  of  the  second 
century. 

-ft^ "  The  immortal  Apostle  of  the 
Gauls,  who,  in  his  earliest  j'outh,  had 
sat  at  the  feet  of  Pnlycarp,  at  Smyrna, 
started  from  the  school  of  Asia  Minor.  It 
was  during  a  great  crisis  that  Providence 
hrought  this  gem  of  Asia  into  the  West. 
Irenaeus  possessed  the  apostolical  pa- 
tience, as  well  as  the  fiery  zeal,  of  Poly- 
carp.  He  learned  Celtic,  in  order  to 
preach  the  gospel  to  the  barbarhms  in 
their  own  language,  ami  rejoiceil  in  be- 
holding the  progress  of  the  good  work  in 
which  he  was  eag;iged  in  the  parts  of 
Germany  bordering  on  Gaul."      Biinsen. 

Apostle  of  the  Q-entiles.  A  title 
assumed  by  St.  Paul,  who,  in  con- 
junction with  Barnabas,  was  divinely 
appointed  to  the  work  of  preaching 
the  gospel  to  all  mankind,  without 
distinction  of  race  or  nation.  His 
labors  lasted  through  many  years, 
and  reached  over  a  vast  extent  of 
country.  See  Acts  xiii.,  Rom.  xi.  13, 
and  2  Tim.  i.  11. 

Apostle  of  the  Highlanders.  A 
name  given  to  St.  Columba  f  521-597), 


one  of  the  earliest  teachers  of  Chris- 
tianity in  Scotland.  He  established 
himself  in  the  island  of  lona,  and  is 
believed  to  have  been  the  founder  of 
the  Culdees,  who  had  their  head-quar- 
ters there. 
Apostle  of  the  Indians.  An  appel- 
lation given  to  the  ilev.  John  Eliot 
(1603-l6!J0),  a  celebrated  missionary 
among  the  Indians  in  the  Colony  of 
Massachusetts  Bay,  many  of  whom 
he  converted  to  Christianity. 

e£S"  "  The  Apostle,  — and  truly  I  know 
not  who,  since  Peter  and  I'aul,  better 
deserves  that  name."  E.  Everett. 

Apostle  of  the  Worth.  1.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Anschar,  Anscharius,  or 
Ansgar  (801-8fj4),  because  he  intro- 
duced Christianity  into  Denmark, 
Sweden,  and  Northern  Gennany. 
At  the  instigation  of  the  Emperor, 
Louis  le  Debonnaire,  he  went  to  Den- 
mark, and,  after  many  disappoint- 
ments and  persecutions,  converted 
the  king  and  the  greater  part  of  the 
nation.  The  Catholic  church  has 
placed  him  among  the  saints. 

ifc^  "  lie  [Anschar]  was  the  Colum- 
bus and  the  Cortes  of  that  unknown 
world  whither  he  penetrated  with  no 
other  weapon  than  his  dauntless  faith 
and  the  name  of  Rome." 

Michelet.   Trans. 

2.  A  title  conferred  upon  Bernard 
Gilpin  (1517-1583),  an  English  re- 
former, and  the  first  who  undertook 
to  preach  the  Protestant  doctrines  to 
the  inhabitants  of  the  Scottish  Bor- 
der land. 

Apostle  of  the  Peak.  A  title  given 
to  William  Bag.shaw  (1628-1702),  a 
non-conforming  divine,  distinguished 
for  his  zeal  and  usefulness  in  the  cause 
of  religion  in  the  northem  parts  of 
Derbyshire,  England. 

Apostle  of  the  Picts.  A  name  given 
to  St.  Xinian,  a  British  bishop  of  the 
latter  half  of  the  fourth  and  the  be- 
ginning of  the  fifth  centuries,  on  ac- 
count of  his  labors  for  the  conver- 
sion of  the  Teutonic  inhabitants  of 
Cumbria. 

Apostle  of  the  Scottish  Reforma- 
tion. A  title  given  to  John  Knox 
(1505-1572),  the  most  active  agent 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-KxxSL 


APO 


20 


ARE 


in  the  overthrow  of  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic religion,  and  tlie  establishment 
of  the  Reformed  kirk,  in  Scotland. 

Apostle  of  the  Slaves.  A  title  ^iven 
to  St.  Cyril  (ninth  century),  who  con- 
verted t(»  Christianity  the  Cliasars, 
dwelling  by  the  Caspian  Sea,  labored 
in  the  same  cau.se  among  the  heathens 
of  Bulgaria,  Moravia,  and  Bohemia, 
and,  with  the  assi.stance  of  some  of 
his  i)upils  and  his  brother,  made  a 
translation  of  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
which  is  still  used  by  all  Greek-Cath- 
olic Christians. 

Apostle  to  the  Indies.  A  title  often 
given  to  St.  brancis  Xavier,  a  distin- 
guished Roman  Catholic  missionary 
of  the  sixteenth  century,  who  spent 
more  than  ten  years  in  laborious  ef- 
forts to  introduce  Christianity  into 
the  East. 

Apostolic  King.  A  title  given  by 
the  Holy  See  to  the  kings  of  Hun- 
gary, on  account  of  the  extensive 
propagation  of  Christianity  by  Ste- 
phen I.,  the  founder  of  the  royal  line. 

Ap'po-li'no.  [The  same  as  Apollo^ 
the  sun.]  An  imaginary  deity,  sup- 
posed by  the  people  of  Western  Eu- 
rope, during  the  Middle  Ages,  to  be 
worshiped  by  the  Mohammedans. 
See  Termagant. 

Aq'iii-lo.  {Rom.  Jfi/th.)  A  personifi- 
cation of  the  north  wind ;  the  same 
as  Boreas.     See  Boreas. 

Arabian  Tailor.  See  Learned  Tai- 
lor. 

Ar'a-b^.     A  poetical  form  of  Arabia. 


Farewell,  • 
ter. 


farewell  to  thee,  Arahi/'x  daiish- 
T.  Moore. 


li-rach'ne.  [Gr.  'kpuxvr).']  (Gr.  cf 
Rom.  }[yth.)  A  Lydian  maiden,  so 
proud  of  her  skill  as  a  weaver  that 
she  challenged  INIinerva  to  compete 
with  her.  She  was  successful  in  the 
contest,  but,  being  insulted  by  the 
goddess,  hung  herself  in  despair, 
and  was  changed  into  a  spider. 

Shall  we  tremble  before  cloth-wphs  and  cob- 
webs, whether  woven  in  Arkwritrht  looms,  or 
by  the  silent  Arnrhjips  that  weave  unrestingly 
in  our  imagination  ?  Carli/le. 

Ar'c5-d^.  A  ])oetical  form  of  Arcadia, 
a  pastoral  district  of  the  Peloponne- 
sus (Morea)  in  Greece. 


Archer.  Ser\'^ant  to  Aimwoll,  in  Far- 
quhar's  "  Beaux'  Stratagem." 

Ar'ghl-ma'go,  or  Ar'chl-niige. 
[I'rom  Gr.  rip^'i,  chief,  in  composi- 
tion, and  ijiuyoq,  magician.]  An  en- 
chanter in  Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen." 
He  is  a  type  of  Hypocrisy,  or  Fraud, 
and,  as  opposed  to  Christian  Holiness 
embodied  in  the  Red-cross  Knight, 
may  also  represent  Satan,  the  incar- 
nate principle  of  evil.  He  wins  the 
confidence  of  the  knight  in  the  dis- 
guise of  a  reverend  hermit,  and  by 
the  help  of  Duessa,  or  Deceit,  sepa- 
rates him  from  Una,  or  Truth. 

By  his  mightv  science  he  could  take 
As  many  forms  and  sliupes  in  seeming  wise 
As  ever  Proteus  to  himself  could  make  : 
Sometime  a  fowl,  Kometime  a  tish  in  lake. 
Now  like  a  fox,  now  like  a  dragon  fell; 
Tliat  of  himself  he  oft  for  fear  would  quake. 
And  oft  would  fly  away.    Oh,  who  can  tell 
Tile  hidden    pcnver  of  herbs,  and   might  of 
magic  spell?  Far-rii  (Jitcen. 

Him  followed  his  companion,  dark  and  sage, 
A»  he,  my  Master,  sung  the  dangerous  Ar- 
chiinage.  Sir  ]V.  Scott. 

Whatever  momentary  benefit  may  result 
from  satire,  it  is  clear  tHat  its  influence,  in  the 
long  run,  is  injurious  to  literature.  The  sat- 
irist, like  a  malignant  ArclnnitKjo,  creates  a 
false  medium,  through  which  posterity  ia 
obliged  to  look  at  his  contemporaries, —  a 
medium  which  so  refracts  and  distorts  their 
images,  that  it  is  almost  out  of  the  question 
to  see  them  correctly.  Atlantic  Jlonthly. 

Ar'cite.  A  character  in  the  "  Knight's 
Tale,"  in  Chaucer's "  Canterbury 
Tales."     See  Palamon. 

Ar'den,  Enoch.  The  hero  of  Tenny- 
son's poem  of  the  same  name,  a  sea- 
man Avho  is  wrecked  on  an  uninhab- 
ited and  rarely  visited  tropical  island, 
where  he  spends  many  years,  and 
who  returns  home  at  last  only  to  find 
that  his  wife,  believing  him  to  be 
dead,  has  married  again,  and  is  pros- 
perous and  happy.  In  a  spirit  of 
heroic  self-sacrilice,  he  determines 
not  to  undeceive  her,  and  soon  dies 
of  a  broken  heart. 

Ardennes,  "Wild  Boar  of.  See 
"Wild  Boar  of  Ardennes. 

A'res.  [Gr.' Afyrjg.]  {Gr.  Jfi/fh.)  The 
god  of  war;  the  same  as  Mars.  See 
INIars. 

Ar'e-thu'sa.  [Gr. 'Apn^oi^aa.]  {Gr.if 
Rom.  .^fiith.)  One  of  the  Xereids, 
and  an  attendant  upon  Diana.  She 
presided  over  a  famous  fountain  of 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationa, 


ARE 


21 


ARG 


the  came  name,  close  by  the  mar^n 
of  the  sea  in  the  island  of  Ortygia, 
near  Syracuse.  According  to  Ovid, 
the  river-god  Alpheus  became  enam- 
ored of  her  while  bathing  in  his 
stream  in  Arcadia.  Diana,  however, 
took  pity  on  her,  and  changed  her 
into  a  well,  which  howed  under  the 
Adriatic  to  Ortygia.  But  Alpheus 
still  pursued  her,  and,  passing  by 
the  same  under-ground  channel  from 
Greece  to  Sicily,  re-appeared  in  the 
fountain,  and  mingled  his  waters 
with  those  of  the  nymph.  [Written 
also,  poetically,  A  r  e  t  h  u  s  e  .  ] 

That  renowned  flood,  so  often  sung, 
Divine  Alplieus,  who,  by  secret  sluice, 
Stole  under  seas  to  meet  his  Arethitse. 

Milton. 

aretino.  The  Only  (5-rS-te'no).   [It. 

V  Unico  Aretino.]  An  honorary  ap- 
pellation  given   by  his   admirei's  to 

Bernardo  Accolti,  an  Italian  poet  of 

the  sixteenth  century,  celebrated  for 

his  Avonderful  powers  of  improvisation. 

The  designation  seems  to  have  been 

intended  to  express  his  superiority  to 

his  uncle,  Francesco  Accolti  (d.  148-3), 

surnamed  Aretlnus,  who  was  also  a 

poet,  and  to  Pietro  Aretino,  a  distin- 
guished contemporary  satirist. 
Argalia    (af-g5-le'a).      A  brother  to 

Angelica,     in     Bojardo's     romantic 

poem,   the   "  Orlando   Innamorato." 

He  is  celebrated  as  the  possessor  of 

an    enchanted    lance    which    threw 

whomsoever    it    touched.        Ferraii 

eventually   killed  him,  and  Astolfo 

obtained  the  lance. 
Ar'gS-lus.      An  unfortunate  lover  in 

Sir  Philip  Sidney's  "Arcadia."  See 

Parthenia. 
Argan  (af'gon',  62).    The  hero  of  Mo- 

liere's  comedy,  "  Le  Malade  Imagi- 

naire,"    an    hypochondriac    patient, 

whose  love  of  medicine  is  accompa- 
nied by  a  spirit  of  parsimony  which 

leads  him  to  take  every  mode  that 

may   diminish    the    expense   of  his 

supposed  indisposition. 

4®"  "  Arjrati  ...  is  discovered  tax- 
ing his  apothef-ary's  bill,  at  once  delight- 
ing his  ear  with  the  flowery  language  of 

the    f'harmapopoeia.   and   gratifying   his 

frugal  disposition    by    clipping  off  some 

items  and  reducing  others,  and  arriving 

at  the  double  conclusion,  first,  that,  if 

and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


his  apothecary  does  not  become  more 
reasonable,  he  cannot  afford  to  be  a  sick 
man  any  longer;  and,  secondly,  that,  as 
he  has  swallowed  fewer  drugs  by  one 
third  this  mouth  than  he  had  done  the 
last,  it  was  no  wonder  he  was  not  so  well. 
.  .  .  file]  is  at  last  persuaded  that  the 
surest  and  cheapest  way  of  securing  him- 
self against  the  variety  of  maladies  by 
which  he  is  beset,  will  be  to  become  a 
doctor  in  his  own  proper  person..  He 
modestly  represents  his  want  of  pre- 
liminary study,  and  of  the  necessary 
knowledge  even  of  the  Latin  language ; 
but  he  is  assured  that  by  merely  putting 
on  the  robe  and  cap  of  a  physician  he 
will  find  himself  endowed  with  all  the 
knowledge  necessary  for  exercising  the 
profession  .  .  .  This  leads  to  the  inter- 
lude which  concludes  the  piece,  being 
the  mock  ceremonial  of  receiving  a 
physician  into  the  iEsculapian  college, 
couched  in  macaronic   Latiuitv." 

Sir  'W.  Scott. 

Argante  (ai'-'goit',  62).  A  character 
in  ^foliere's  comedy,  "Les  FouiHberies 
de  Scapin." 

Ar-gan'te.  A  terrible  giantess  in  Spen- 
ser's "Faery  Queen;  "  a  very  mon- 
ster and  miracle  of  licentiousness. 

Argantes  (af-giin'tess).  The  bravest 
of  the  infidel  heroes  in  Tas.«o's  epic 
poem,  "Jerusalem  Delivered." 

Bonaparte,  in  tliese  disjointed  yet  signifi- 
cant threats,  stood  before  the  deputies  like 
the  Arpanfes  of  Italy's  heroic  poet,  and  gave 
them  the  choice  of  peace  and  war  with  the 
air  of  a  superior  being,  capable  at  once  to  dic- 
tate their  fate.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Ar-gier'.  An  old  form  of  Alf/iers, 
found  in  Shakespeare's  "Tempest." 

Ar'go.  [Gr.  'Apyio,  from  upyoc,  SAvift.] 
{Gr.  c}  Earn.  .Uytli.)  A  tifty-oared 
ship  in  which  Jason  and  his  com- 
panions made  their  voj^age  to  Colchis 
in  search  of  the  golden  fleece.  See 
Argonauts. 

Harder  beset 
And   more    endangered,    than    when    Ai-go 

passed 
Through  Bosporus  betwixt  the  justling  rocks. 

Milton. 

Ar'go-nauts.  [Lat.  Argonnutce ;  Gr. 
' kpyovavTQL.']  {Gr.  cj"-  Rom.  Myth.) 
The  heroes  and  demigods  w-ho,  ac- 
cording to  the  traditions  of  the  Greeks, 
undertook  an  expedition  to  Colchis, 
a  far-distant  country  on  the  coast  of 
the  I^uxine,  for  the  purpose  of  ob- 
taining a  golden  fleece,  which  was 


ARG 


22 


ARI 


guarded  bj'  a   sleepless  and  terrible 
dragon. 

A  bodv  of  Bastille  heroes,  tolerably  com- 
plete, diil  get  togetlier  ; — comparable  to  the 
Anjonauts  ;  hoping  to  endure  like  them. 

Carlyle. 

Ar'gus.  [Gr.  'Apyo^.]  (6V.  lJ- Rom. 
yhjtli.)  A  fabulous  being  of  enor- 
mous strength,  who  had  a  hundred 
eyes,  of  which  only  two  Avere  asleep 
aX  once,  whence  he  was  named  Pun- 
optts,  or  the  All -seeing.      Juno  ap- 

Eointed  him  to  watch  over  lo  (see  lo), 
ut  Mercury  killed  him,  and  Juno 
transferred  his  eyes  to  the  tail  of  the 
peacock,  her  favorit*  bird. 

Spangled  with    ej'es    m  Dre    numerous  than 

those 
Of  Arr/ia,  and  more  wakeful  than  to  drowse, 
Charmed  with  Arcadian    pipe,  the  pastoral 

reed 
Of  Hermes,  or  his  opiate  rod.  ^lilton. 

A'ri-ad'ne  (9).  [Gr.  'ApiadvTj.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Minos, 
king  of  Crete,  who,  from  the  love 
she  bore  to  Theseus,  gave  him  a  clew 
of  thread,  which  guided  him  out  of 
the  Cretan  labyrinth.  Theseus  in 
return  promised  to  marry  her,  and 
she  accordingly  left  the  island  with 
him,  but  was  slain  by  Diana  in  Xaxos. 
According  to  another  tradition,  she 
was  married  to  Bacchus,  who,  after 
her  death,  gave  her  a  place  among 
the  gods,  and  placed  her  wedding 
crown  as  a  constellation  in  the  sky. 

A'ri-el  (9).  1.  In  the  demonology  of 
the  Cabala,  a  water-spirit;  in  the  fa- 
bles of  the  Middle  Ages,  a  spirit  of 
the  air,  —  the  guardian  angel  of  inno- 
cence; in  Shakespeare's  "Tempest," 
an  airy  and  tricksy  spirit,  represented 
as  having  been  a  servant  to  Sycorax, 
a  foul  witch,  by  whom,  for  some  acts 
of  disobedience,  he  was  imprisoned 
within  the  rift  of  a  cloven  pine-tree, 
where  he  remained  for  twelve  years, 
until  released  by  Prospero.  In  grat- 
itude for  his  deliverance,  he  became 
the  willing  messenger  of  Prospero, 
assuming  any  shape,  or  rendering 
himself  invisible,  in  order  to  execute 
the  commands  of  his  master. 

On  the  hearth  the  lighted  logs  are  glowing, 
And,  like  Ariel  in  the  cloven  pine-tree. 

For  its  freedom 
Groans  and  sighs  the  air  imprisoned  in  them. 
LonafeUow. 


2.  The  name  of  a  sylph  in  Pope's 
"  Rape  of  the  Lock." 

J^^iif  "  Pope's  fairy  region,  compared 
with  iShakespeare's,  was  what  a  dra^uug- 
room  is  to  tiie  uuiverse.  To  give,  there- 
fore, to  the  sprite  ot  the  '  Rape  ot  ttie 
Lock '  tiie  name  of  the  spirit  in  tlia 
'  Tempest '  was  a  bold  ciiristeuing.  Pros- 
pero's  Ariel  could  have  putied  uim  out 
like  a  tjiper.  Or  he  would  have  suutfed 
him  up  as  an  essence,  by  way  of  jest,  and 
found  him  flat.  But.  tested  by  less  potent 
senses,  the  sylph  species  is  an  exquisite 
creation.  He  is  an  abstract  of  the  spirifr 
of  fine  life  ;  a  suggester  of  fashions  ;  an 
iuspirer  of  airs  ;  wuuld  be  cut  to  pieces 
rataer  than  see  his  will  contradicted; 
takes  his  station  with  dignity  on  a  pict- 
ure-cord ;  and  is  so  nice  an  adjust«r  of 
claims  that  he  ranks  hearts  with  neck- 
laces. .  .  .  The  punishments  inflicted  or. 
him  when  disobedient  have  a  like  fitness. 
He  is  to  be  kept  hovering  over  the  fumes 
of  the  chocolate  ;  to  be  transfixed  with 
pins,  clogged  with  pomatums,  and  wedged 
ill  the  e^es  of  bodkins."'         Lttgii  Hunt. 

Ariodantes  ( It.  pnm.  a-re-o-dan'tess). 
The  lover  of  Ginevra,  in  Ariosto's 
"  C)r!ando  Furioso." 

A-ri'on.  [Gr.  'A/u'wv.]  {Gr.  <j-  Rom. 
Myth.)  An  ancient  Greek  bard  and 
musician  of  the  isle  of  Lesbos.  On 
his  return  to  Corinth  from  Italy,  on 
one  occasion,  the  mariners  formed  a 
plot  to  murder  him  for  his  riches;  but 
being  forewarned  of  their  intention, 
he  played  upon  his  lute,  and,  by  the 
charms  of  his  music,  brought  a  num- 
ber of  dolphins  around  the  vessel, 
when  he  threw  himself  into  the  sea, 
and  was  carried  on  the  back  of  one 
of  them  to  the  promontory  of  Tcena- 
rus  in  the  Peloponnesus. 

Ar'is-tae'us.  [Gr.  'Aptorafoc.]  ( Gr.  <f 
Rom.  Jfyth.)  An  ancient  Greek  di- 
vinity, Avorshiped  as  the  protector 
of  vine  and  olive  plantations,  and  of 
hunters  and  herdsmen.  He  was  also 
thouglit  to  have  instructed  men  in  the 
management  of  bees.  According  to 
the  common  tradition,  he  was  a  son  of 
Apollo  and  the  Avater-nym]>h  Cyreiui. 

In  such  a  palace  .■lrist(F)i.i  found 
Cyrcne,  wlu-n  he  bore  the  plnintive  tale 
Of  his  lost  bees  to  her  maternnl  ear 
Cou-j/er  (on  the  Ice-palace  of  Anne  of  Runtia.] 

A-ris'te-as.  [Gr.  'AfuaTeac.]  ( G7:  4 
Rom.  Myth.)     A  fabulous  being,  '*ho 


t^  For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explaoap'oii* 


ARI 


23 


ART 


has  been  styled  the  "  Wandering 
Jew  "  of  popular  tradition  in  ancient 
Greece.  He  appears  lirst  as  a  teacher 
ot  Homer,  and  re-appears  in  dilterent 
ages  and  places  ui  very  dillerent 
characters.  Herodotus  and  8uidas 
assert  that  he  was  a  magician,  whose 
soul  could  leave  and  re-enter  its  body 
at  pleasure. 

Aristophanes,  The  Modern.  See 
MouEKN    Akistophanks. 

Arlecchino  (ar-lek-ke'no,  102).  See 
Haklequin. 

Armada,  The  Invincible.  {Eng.  tf 
tSp.  Hist.)  A  famous  naval  arma- 
ment, or  expedition,  sent  by  Philip 
II.  of  8pain  against  England,  in  the 
year  1588.  It  consisted  of  1^0  ves- 
sels, 21^0  great  guns,  4575  quintals 
of  powder,  nearly  20,000  soldiers, 
above  8000  sailors,  and  more  than 
2000  volunteers.  It  arrived  in  the 
Channel  on  the  19th  of  July,  and  was 
defeated  the  next  day  by  Admiral 
Howard,  who  was  seconded  by  Drake, 
Hawkins,  and  Frobisher.  Eight  tire- 
ships  having  been  sent  into  the  Span- 
ish tieet,  they  bore  off  in  great  dis- 
order. Profiting  by  the  panic,  the 
English  fell  upon  them,  and  captured 
or  destroyed  a  number  of  their  ships, 
and  Admiral  Howard  maintained  a 
running  fight  from  the  21st  of  Julv  to 
the  27th,  with  such  effect,  that  "^the 
Spanish  commander,  despairing  of 
success,  resolved  to  return  home,  and, 
as  escape  through  the  English  Chan- 
nel was  prevented  by  contrary  winds, 
he  undertook  to  sail  around  the  Ork- 
neys; but  the  vessels  which  still  re- 
mained to  him  were  dispersed  by 
storms,  or  shipwrecked  among  the 
rocks  and  shallows,  on  different  parts 
of  the  Scottish  and  Irish  coast,  and 
upwards  of  5000  men  were  drowned, 
killed,  or  taken  prisoners.  Of  the 
whole  Armada,  53  ships  only  returned 
to  Spain,  and  these  in  a  Avretched  con- 
dition. The  English  lost  but  one  ship. 

Armado.     See  Don  Adriano  de  Ar- 

MA1>U. 

Armed  Soldier  of  Democracy.  A 
name  given  to  Napoleon  Bonaparte. 

Armida  (af-me'da,  64).  One  of  the 
most    prominent    female    characters 


in  Tasso's  "Jerusalem  Delivered.' 
The  stor^'  of  Armida  is  founded  upon 
a  tradition  related  by  Pi  -rre  Dtdancre. 
jK^  The  poet  tells  us,  that,  wlieu  the 
Crusaders  arrived  at  the  Holy  City,  Satan 
held  a  council  to  devise  some  means  of 
disturbing  the  plans  of  the  Christian 
warriors,  and  Armida,  a  very  beautiful 
sorceress,  was  employed  to  seduce  Ri- 
naldo  and  other  Crusaders.  Riualdo  was 
conducted  by  Armida  to  a  remote  island, 
where,  in  her  splendici  palace,  surround- 
ed by  delightful  gardens  and  pleasure- 
grounds,  he  utterly  forgot  his  vows  and 
the  great  object  to  whicli  he  had  devoted 
his  life.  To  liberate  him  from  his  volup- 
tuous bondage,  two  messengei-s  from  the 
Christian  army.  Carlo  and  Ubaldo,  came 
to  the  island,  bringing  a  talisman  so  pow- 
erful that  the  witchery  of  Armida  was 
destroyed.  Itinaldo  escaped,  but  was  fol- 
lowed by  the  sorceress,  who,  in  battle,  in- 
cited several  warriors  to  attack  the  hero, 
and  at  last  herself  rushed  into  the  fight. 
She  was  defeated  by  Kiualdo,  who  then 
confessed  his  love  to  her,  persuaded  her 
to  become  a  Christian,  and  vowed  to  be 
her  faithful  knight.  The  story  of  Armi- 
da has  been  made  the  subject  of  an  opera 
by  both  Gluck  and  Kossini. 

'T  was  but  a  doubt ;   but   ne'er   magician's 

wand 
Wrought  change  with  all  Armida's  fairy  art 
Like  what    this  light  touch   left  on  Juan's 
heart.  Bi/ron. 

The  stage  (even  as  it  then  was),  after  the 
recluseness  and  austerity  of  a  coUfge  life,  must 
have  appeared  like  Armida's  enchanted  pal- 
ace. Jlnzlitt. 

The  grand  mansions  you  arrive  at  in  this 
waste,  howling  solitude  prove  sometimes  es- 
sentially robber -towers;  and  there  may  be 
Armida  palaces  and  divine-looking  Annidas, 
where  your  ultimate  fate  is  still  worse. 

Carhjle. 

Arnolphe  (ar'nolf).  A  selfish^ and 
morose  cynic  in  Moliere's  "  L'Ecole 
des  Femmes,"  whose  pretended  ha- 
tred of  the  world  springs  from  an  ab- 
sorbing regard  to  his  own  gratification. 

Ar'oun-dight  (-dit).  The  sword  of 
Lancelot  of  the  Lake. 

It  is  the  sword  of  a  good  knight. 
Though  homespun  was  his  mail; 
Wliaf  matter  if  it  be  not  named 
Joyeuse,  Colada,  Duriiulale, 
Excalibar,  or  Around i(jhtf      LongfeJlovo. 

Ar-sin'o-e.  A  prude  in  Moliere's 
comedy,  "Le  Misanthrope." 

Ar'te-gS,l.    1.  A  mythic  king  of  Britain 
mentioned  in  the  Chronicle  of  Geof- 
frey of  Monmouth,  and  in  INIilton's 
History  of  Britain.     See  ELiounE. 
2.  [Written  also  Arte  gall,  Ar- 


■nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxLl. 


ART 


24 


ASH 


ch  e  g  a  1,  and  Artegale.]  A  char- 
acter ill  Spenser's  "Faery  Queen," 
representative  ot"  Justice,  and  also  of 
the  poet's  triend  and  patron,  Lord 
Grey.  His  main  object  is  to  rescue 
Irena  I'roni  the  tyranny  ot'  Grantoiio ; 
but,  hke  a  ciiivah'ous  knight-errant, 
he  is  ready  to  turn  aside  and  subdue 
the  spirit  of  mischief  and  violence 
wherever  it  may  be  encountered. 

Every  obligation,  according  to  the  maxim 
of  the  Civil  Law,  is  niude  void  in  the  same 
manner  in  which  it  is  rendered  bindinj^  ; 
as  Artht-yul,  tlie  emblematic  champion  of 
Justice  in  Spenser's  allej^ory,  decrees  as  law, 
that  what  the  sea  has  brought  the  sea  may 
resume.  ^'iV  W.  Scott. 

Ar'te-mis.  [Or.  'Aprf/zif.]  {Gr. 
Myth.)  One  of  the  great  divinities  of 
the  ancient  Greeks;  the  same  as  Di- 
ana.    See  UiANA. 

Artful  Dodger.  A  sobriquet  of  one 
of  the  characters  in  Dickens's  "  Oli- 
ver Twist."  He  is  a  young  thief, 
and  an  adept  in  villainy. 

Arthur.     See  King  Arthur. 

Ar'un-deL  The  steed  of  Bevis  of 
Southampton.  See  Bevis  of  South- 
ampton, Sir. 

Ar-vir'a-gus.  A  son  of  Cymbeline, 
in  Shakespeare's  play  of  this  name, 
passing  under  the  assumed  name  of 
Cadwal,  and  supposed  to  be  a  son  of 
Belarius.     See  Belarius. 

As-cal'a-plius.  [Gr.  'Atr/cry/la^of.] 
{Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Ache- 
ron, who,  having  declared  that  Pros- 
erpine —  whom  Pluto  had  given  per- 
mission to  return  to  earth,  provided 
she  had  not  eaten  any  thing  while  in 
the  under-world  —  had  tasted  of  a 
pomegranate,  was  turned  by  Ceres 
into  an  owl,  for  his  mischief-making. 

As-ca'ni-us.  [Gr.  'Agkuvlo^.]  {Gr. 
cf  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Ji^ncas 
and  Creusa.  He  accompanied  his 
father  to  Itah^,  succeeded  him  in  the 
kingdom  of  Latinus,  and  built  the 
city  of  Alba  Longa.  [Called  also 
Julus.]     See  ^NKAs. 

The  former  belong  to  that  class  who,  like 
the  young  A.<cniiiii.<,  are  ever  beiiting  about  in 
quest  of  a  tawny  lion,  though  they  are  much 
more  successful  in  uow  and  then  starting  a 
great  bore.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

As'ca-part.  The  name  of  a  giant 
whom  Bevis    of  Southampton  con- 


quered, according  to  the  old  romance. 
His  elligy  may  be  seen  on  the  city^ 
gates  of  Soutiuunpton.  He  is  said  to 
have  been  thirty  feet  high,  and  to  have 
carried  Sir  Bevis,  his  wife,  and  horse, 
under  his  arm.  Allusions  to  him 
occur  in  Shakespeare,  Drayton,  and 
other  Elizabethan  writers.'  Accord- 
ing to  \\'arton,  he  is  a  character  in 
very  old  French  romances. 

Each  man  an  Ascanart,  of  strength  to  toos 
For  quoits  both   Temple-bar  and   Charing- 
cross.  J'o/ie. 

_  He  was  a  man  whose  huge  stature,  thews, 
sinews,  and  bulk  in  proportion,  would  have 
enabled  him  to  enact  Colbrand,  Ascaj)<jrt,ot 
any  other  giant  of  romance,  without  raising 
himself  nearer  to  heaveu  even  by  the  altitude 
ofachopin.  Sir  fV.  Scott. 

As-crae'Sn  Sage.  [Lat.  Asn-ceus  se- 
ntx.]  A  name  given  by  Virgil,  in 
his  sixth  Eclogue,  to  Hesiod,  who 
was  born  in  the  eighth  centuiy,  b.  c. 
at  Ascra,  a  village  of  Baotia,  in 
Greece. 

Asgard(as'gafd).  [Old  Norse,  yard,  ot 
abode,  of  the  Asir,  or  gods.]  {Sctnd. 
Myth.)  A  celestial  city  or  territory, 
the  dwelling  of  the  gods,  situated  in 
the  center  of  the  universe,  and  acces- 
sible only  by  the  bridge  Bifrost  (the 
rainbow).  Here  each  of  the  princi- 
'pal  deities  had  a  residence  apart  from 
the  rest.     [Written  aho  A  s  a  g  a  r  d.] 

Ash'ford,     Isaac.       A    peasant    in 
Cral)be's    "  Parish     Register,"     de- 
scribed as 
"  A  wise  good  man,  contented  to  be  poor." 

Ash'ta-roth.  {Myth.)  The  name 
given  in  the  Bible  to  Astarte,  an 
ancient  Syrian  deity,  who  was  adored 
as  the  goddess  of  the  moon;  hence 
Jeremiah  calls  her  "the  queen  of 
heaven."  Solomon  built  her  a  tem- 
ple on  the  IMount  of  Olives  (2  Kings 
xxiii.  13),  but  her  chief  temples  were 
at  Tyre  and  Sidon.  Her  worship, 
according  to  ancient  accounts,  was  of 
a  licentious  character.  See  Astai;te. 
[Written  also  Astaroth  and 
Astoreth.] 

Mooned  Ashtaroth, 
Heaven's  queen  and  mother  both.      Hilton. 

Ash'tSn,  Lucy.  The  heroine  of  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  novel,  "  The  Bride  of 
Lammermoor ;  "  daughter  of  Sir  Wil- 
liam Ashton,  and  betrothed  to  Edgar 
Ravenswood. 


For  the  "  Kej'  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  ExplanatioQ't, 


ASH 


25 


ASS 


Ash't8n,  Sir  'William.  The  Lord 
Keeper  of  Scotland;  a  prominent 
character  in  Scott's  "  Bride  of  Lam- 
mennoor." 

Asir  (a^sei^).  [Scand.  Myth.)  The 
most  powerful,  though  not  the  oldest, 
of  the  deities:  usually  reckoned  as 
twelve  gods  and  twelve  goddesses. 
'I'he  gods  are  —  Odin,  Thor,  Baldur, 
Ni()rd,  Frey,  Tyr,  Bragi,  Heimdall, 
Vidar,  Vali',  Ullur,  and  Forseti;  the 
best-known  of  the  goddesses  —  Vrig- 
ga,  Freyja,Iduna,  and  Saga.  [Writ- 
ten also  Aser,  Asar,  and  -<Esir.] 

As'mo-dii.  The  same  as  Asmodeus. 
See  Asmodeus  and  Belial. 

A§'ino-de'us.  [Heb.  Ashmedai,  the 
destroyer.]  In  the  Jewish  demonol- 
ogy,  an  evil  spirit,  the  demon  of 
vanit}-,  or  dress,  called  in  the  Tal- 
mud "  king  of  the  devils,"  whence 
some  assume  him  to  be  identical  with 
Beelzebub,  and  others  with  Azrael. 
In  modern  times,  he  has  been  jocu- 
larly spoken  of  as  the  destroying  de- 
mon of  matrimonial  happiness. 

4^  In  the  Apocryphal  book  of  Tobit^ 
he  is  represented  as  loving  Sara,  the 
daughter  of  Raguel,  and  causing  the 
death  of  seven  husbands,  who  married 
her  in  succession,  on  the  bridal  night. 
Tobias,  instructed  by  Raphael,  burns  on 
'•  the  ashes  of  perfume  "  the  heart  and 
liver  of  the  fish  which  he  caught  in  the 
Tigris  ;  "  the  which  smell  when  the  evil 
spirit  had  smelled,  he  fled  into  the  utmost 
parts  of  Eg3'pt,  and  the  angel  bound 
him."  Those  demonographers  of  the 
Middle  Ages  who  reckoned  nine  kinds  of 
evil  spirits,  placed  Asmoileus  at  the  head 
of  the  fourth  rank,  whicli  consisted  of 
malicious,  revenging  devils.  According 
to  other  authorities,  he  is  the  lieutenant 
of  Amaimon.  Wierus,  in  his  description 
of  the  infernal  court,  makes  him  superin- 
tendent of  gambling-houses.  Le  Sage 
has  made  him  the  companion  of  Don 
Cleofas,  in  '•  Le  Diable  Boiteux,"  or  ''  The 
Devil  on  Two  Stick.s,"  in  which  occurs 
the  celebrated  adventure  known  as  As- 
modeus's  flight.  By  direction  of  the 
demon,  Don  Cleofas  takes  hold  of  Asmo- 
deus's  cloak,  and  is  immediately  borne 
through  the  air  like  an  arrow,and  perched 
upon  the  steeple  of  St.  Salvador.  Ar- 
rived at  this  spot,  the  demon  stretches 
out  his  right  arm,  and  at  once,  by  his 
diaboUcal  power,  the  roofs  of  the  houses 
are  taken  off,  and,  notwithstanding  the 


darkness  of  the  night,  the  interiors  are 
made  visible.  I'he  scholar  beliolds,  as  at 
noonday,  the  inside  of  all  the  houses,  as 
one  might  viesv  the  inside  of  a  pie  from 
which  the  crust  had  been  removed. 

jS£u^  "' It  is  impossible  to  conceive  a 
being  more  fitted  to  comment  upon  the 
vices,  and  to  ridicule  the  follies,  of  hu- 
manity, than  au  esprit  follet  like  Asmo- 
deus [in  '  Le  Diable  Boiteux  '],  who  is  as 
much  a  decided  creation  of  genius,  in  his 
way,  as  Ariel  or  Caliban.  Without  pos- 
sessing the  darker  powers  and  propen- 
sities of  a  fallen  angel,  he  presides  over 
the  vices  and  follies,  rather  than  the 
crimes,  of  mankind  ;  is  malicious  rather 
than  malignant ;  and  his  delight  is  to 
gibe,  and  to  scoff,  and  to  tease,  rather 
than  to  torture  ;  —  one  of  Satan's  light- 
infantry,  in  short,  whose  business  is  to 
goad,  perplex,  and  disturb  the  ordinary 
train  of  society,  rather  than  to  break  in 
upon  and  overthrow  it.  This  character 
is  maintained  in  all  Asmodeus  .says  and 
does,  with  so  much  spirit,  wit,  acuteness, 
and  playful  malice,  that  we  never  forget 
the  fiend,  even  in  those  moments  when 
he  is  very  near  becoming  amiable  as  well 
as  entertaining."  Sir  W.  Scott, 

Could  the  reader  take  an  Asnwdeus-fiight, 
and,  waving  open  ail  roofs  and  privacies,  look 
down  from  the  roof  of  Notre-Dame,  what  a 
Paris  were  it!  Carhjle, 

A-so'pus.  [Gr.  'Aaw7roc.](Gr.  ^  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Oceanus  and  Te- 
(hys.  changed  into  a  river  for  rebel- 
ling against  Jupiter. 

As-pa'si-3  (as-pa'zhI-5).  A  female 
character  in  Beaumont  and  Fletcher's 
play,  "  The  Maid's  Tragedy." 

S£^  "  Her  sorrows  are  so  deep,  so 
pure,  so  unmerited ;  she  sustains  the 
breach  of  plighted  faith  in  Amy n tor,  and 
the  taunts  of  vicious  women,  with  so 
much  resignation,  so  little  of  that  ter- 
magant resentment  these  poets  are  apt  to 
infuse  into  their  heroines  ;  the  poetry  of 
her  speeches  is  so  exquisitely  imaginative, 
that,  of  those  dramatic  persons  who  are 
not  prominent  in  the  development  of  a 
story,  scarce  any,  even  in  Shakespear«^, 
are  more  interesting."  Hal  lam. 

Assassination  Plot.  (  Eng.  Hist.)  The 
name  given  to  a  conspiracy  formed 
in  1696,  by  the  Earl  of  Aylesbury 
and  others,  to  assassinate  King  Wil- 
liam III.,  near  Richmond,  as  he  re- 
turned from  the  chase.  It  was  dis- 
covered Feb.  15,  the  day  before  that 
fixed  upon  for  the  execution  of  the 
plot. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ASS 


26 


ATA 


As'Bi-en'to.  [Sp.,  seat,  contract, 
agreement.]  A  treaty  or  convention ; 
specitically  (»S/>.  f/isl.),  a  convention 
between  the  king  of"  .S))ain  and  some 
foreign  power  tor  the  supply  of  ne- 
groes for  the  .Spanish  American  colo- 
nies. Tlie  tirst  Assiento  was  conclud- 
ed with  tlie  Flemings  by  Charles  I. 
of  Spain.  In  17KJ,  it  was  transferred 
to  England  by  the  treaty  of  Utrecht, 
and  atterward  made  over  for  thirty 
years  by  the  English  government  to 
the  South-Sea  Company,  which,  how- 
ever, in  1750,  relin(|uished  its  rights 
to  Spain,  upon  the  payment  of  .£l()0,- 
000,  and  the  concession  of  certain 
conunercial  advantages.  [Written 
also,  though  rarely  in  English  books, 
A  s  i  e  u  t  o,  which  is  the  proper  Span- 
ish orthography.] 

As-tar'te.  {Myth.)  The  Punic  name 
of  the  Syrian  deity  named  Ashtaroth. 

See  ASHTAKOTH.' 

With  these  in  troops 
Came  Astoreth,  whom  the  Phoenicians  called 
AMarte^  queen  of  heaven,  with  crescent  horns; 
To  whose  britfht  imajre  nij;htly  by  the  moon 
Sidonian  virgins  paid  their  vows  and  songs; 
In  Sion  also  not  unsung,  where  stood 
Her  temple  on  the  offensive  mountain,  built 
By  that  uxorious  king,  whose  heart,  though 

lara;e, 
Beguile(t  by  fair  idolatresses,  fell 
To  idols  foul.  Milton. 

A.8'to-lat.  The  name  given  to  Guil- 
ford, in  Surrey,  in  the  old  romances 
of  the  Arthurian  cycle. 

A-s-tol'fo,  o?-  As-tol'pho.  A  celebrat- 
ed character  in  the  romantic  tales 
and  poem-t  founded  upon  the  sup- 
posed adventures  of  Charlemagne 
and  his  paladins.  Astolfo  is  repre- 
sented as  the  English  cousin  of  Or- 
lando, being  equally  descended  with 
him  from  Charles  Martel.  He  is  a 
boaster,  and  is  perpetually  under- 
taking great  feats,  which  he  is  unable 
to  perform;  but  he  is  generous,  and 
brave  to  tool  -  hardiness,   courteous, 

fay,  and  singularly  handsome.  In 
.riosto's  "Orlando  Furioso,"  he  is 
made  to  cure  Orlando's  madness  by 
bringing  home  his  lost  wits  in  a  phial 
from  the  moon,  and  is  noted  for  his 
magic  horn,  that  routed  armies  with 
a  blast. 

In  the  hands  of  Antony  Van  Corlear,  this 
windy  instrument  [the  trumpet]  appeared  to 


him  as  potent  a«  the  horn  of  the  paladin  A*to7. 
p/io,  or  even  tlie  more  classic  horn  of  Alecto. 

»r.  /rtiiig. 

As-tree'a.  1.  [Gr.  'A  arpaia.]  (Gr.^f- 
Rom.  Myth . )  The  goddess  of  j  ustice, 
a  daughter  of  Jupiter  and  Themis, 
or,  according  to  others,  of  Astneus 
and  Aurora.  She  was  the  last  of  all 
the  deities  who  left  the  earth  when 
the  golden  age  had  passed  away; 
and,  when  she  departed,  shocked  bv 
the  impiety  of  mankind,  she  took 
her  place  in  heaven  among  the  stars, 
as  the  constellation  "Virgo,"  in  the 
zodiac. 

2.  A  poetical  name  assumed  by 
Mrs.  Aphara,  or  Aphra,  Behn,  a 
dramatist  and  miscellaneous  writer 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  notorious 
for  the  license  of  her  life  and  writ- 
ings. 

The  stage  how  loosely  does  Astrcea  tread ! 

J'oim:. 

As'tro-phel.  [A  sort  of  metagram- 
matic  translation  of  Phil.  Sid.,  an 
abbreviation  of  Philip  Sidney,  —  Si(L 
being  taken  as  a  contraction  of  the 
Latin  sidus,  a  star,  in  Gr.  uarpov,  and 
Phil,  standing  for  (ptAog,  a  friend. 
Hence,  Astrophil,  star-friend,  or  friend 
of  the  star  [Stella],  changed  to  Astn^ 
jjhd,  which  is  the  name  of  a  flower- 
ing plant  called  also  starwort.]  A 
name  given  by  Sir  Philip  Sidney  to 
himself  in  a  series  of  poems  entitled 
"  Astrophel  and  Stella,"  in  which  he 
celebrated  the  praises  of  Penelope 
Devereux,  to  whom  he  was  at  one 
time  betrothed.  Spenser  embalmed 
the  mutual  friendship  of  Sidney  and 
himself  in  a  pastoral  ode  entitled 
"Astrophel."     See  Stella,  1. 

The  long-winded  strophes  of  the  divine 
Astrophel.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

As-ty'a-nax.  [Gr.  'AarvuvaE.]  {Gr. 
(f  Bom.  Myth.)  The  only  son  of 
Hector  and  Andromache.  After  the 
capture  of  Troy,  the  Greeks  hurled 
him  down  from  the  walls  of  the  cit}' 
to  prevent  the  fultillment  of  a  decree 
of  fate,  according  to  which  he  was  to 
restore  the  kingdom  of  Troy. 

At'a-lan'ta.  [Gr.  ' ATaTu'ivrTj.]  {Gr. 
<f  Rom.  Myth.)  A  princess  of  Scy- 
ros,  or,  according  to  others,  of  Arca- 
dia, who  was  famed  for  her  beauty 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanyinK  Explanationa, 


ATE 


27 


ATR 


She  consented  to  marn'  that  one  of 
her  ninnerous  suitors  who  slioiihl  out- 
run her;  bat  he  was  to  die  who  lost 
the  prize.  After  many  had  perislied, 
Hipi)onienes  ottered  hiniseU";  and,  by 
droi)ping  at  intervals  three  golden 
apple*;  from  the  garden  of  the  lles- 
perides,  which  Atalanta  sto]>ped  to 
pick,  up,  arrived  tirst  at  the  goal,  and 
thus  oblauied  her  hand. 

A'te.  [(jr.  "Ar;/.]  (Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Jupiter,  and 
the  goddess  of  discord.  The  tragic 
writers  describe  her  as  the  goddess  of 
retribution. 

Atli'el-stS,ne.  A  prominent  character 
in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of  "  Ivan- 
hoe."  He  is  thane  of  Coningsburgh, 
and  is  surnamed  "  The  Unready." 

A-the'ne.  [Gr.  'A&i/vr].]  {Myth.) 
One  of  the  great  female  clivinities  of 
the  Greeks;  the  same  as  the  Minerva 
of  the  liomans.  See  Mineuva. 
[Written  also  A  t  h  e  n  a.] 

Athenian  Bee.  A  title  bestowed 
upon  Plato  (n.  c.  423—348),  who  was 
a  native  of  Athens,  in  allusion  to  the 
sweetness  and  beauty  of  his  style. 

Athens  of  America.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  Boston,  Massa- 
chusetts.    See  MoDKKN  Atiikms,  2. 

Athens  of  Ireland.  A  popular  des- 
ignafion  of  the  city  of  (Jork,  the 
birtiiplace  or  residence  of  very  many 
of  the  most  cultivated  and  eminent 
Irishmen  of  the  present  day. 

Athens  of  the  North.     See  North- 

EKN    ATIIf:NS. 

At-lan'tes  [It.  pron.  at-lSn'tess).  A 
famous  enchanter,  ^\\\n  ligures  in 
B(;iardo's  "Orlando  Innamorato," 
and  Ariosto's  "  Orlando  Furioso,"  as 
the  tutor  of  Rogero. 

Thou  mayst  laugh,  .  .  .  but  it  [the  shadow 
of  a  liprse  with  two  riders]  reminded  me  of 
the  majrician  Atlatitex  on  his  hippo^jriif  with 
a  Icnif^ht  trussed  up  behind  him. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

At-lan'tis.  [Gr.  'kTlavrig.']  A  vast 
island  supposed  by  the  ancient  Greeks 
and  Romans  to  have  been  situated  in 
the  western  ocean,  beyond  the  Pil- 
lars of  Hercules.  It  Avas  first  men- 
tioned by  Plato,  who  tells  us  that  he 
obtained    his   information    from  the 


priests  of  Egypt.  He  gives  a  beau- 
tiful picture  of  the  interior  of  this  im- 
aginary laud,  aud  enriches  it  with  a 
fal)ulous  history.  He  says,  that,  nine 
thousand  years  before  his  time,  the 
island  suddenly  sank  into  the  sea, 
rendering  it  innavigable  ever  since 
by  reason  of  the  shoals  of  mud  caused 
by  the  submersion  of  so  great  an  ex- 
tent of  land. 

At-lan'tis,  The  New.  The  title  of 
an  allegorical  tiction  by  Lord  Bacon, 
and  the  name  of  an  island  described 
in  it  as  being  situated,  like  the  At- 
lantis of  the  ancients,  in  the  middle 
of  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Bacon  rep- 
resents himself  as  having  been 
wrecked  on  this  island,  and  as  find- 
ing there  an  association  for  the  cul- 
tivation of  natural  science  and  the 
promotion  of  improvements  in  the 
arts. 

AtTas.  [Gr. 'ArAa^.]  {Gr.  f  Bom. 
Myth.)  One  of  the  Titans,  son  of 
lapetus  and  Clymene.  Being  con- 
quered by  Jupiter,  he  was  condemned 
to  the  labcn-  of  bearing  on  his  head 
and  hands  the  heaven  he  had  at- 
tempted to  destroy.  Another  ac- 
count makes  him  a  man  metanu)r- 
phosed  into  a  mountain  by  Perseus. 

Atlas,  Witch  of.     See  Witch   ok 

_  Atlas. 

A-tos'sa.  [From  Atossa,  the  daughter 
'  of  Cyrus,  queen  of  Cambyses,  and 
afterward  of  Darius  Hystaspis,  by 
whom  she  had  Xerxes.  Herodotus 
speaks  of  her  as  a  loUower  of  Sap- 
pho.] A  poetical  name  given  by 
Pope  to  Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marlbor- 
ough, a  great  friend  of  Lady  Mary 
Wortley  Montagu,  whom  Pope  calfs 
Sappho"  in  his  "  Moral  Essays,"  Lp. 
II. 

But  what  are  these  to  great  ^fo.wcr'.smind? 
Scarce  once  herself,  by  turns  all  womankind. 

A'treiis.  [Gr. 'Arpei'f.]  {Gr.  ^- Ri>m. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Pelops  and  Hippo- 
damia,  grandson  of  Tantalus,  and 
father  of  Agamemnon  and  Menelaus. 

i-tri'des.  [Gr.  ' hrptUhir.']  {Gr.  if 
Rom.  Jfyth.)  A  patronymic  used  to 
designate  Agamemnon,  the  son  of 
Atreus. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbcrB  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ATR 


28 


AUG 


At'ro-pos.  [Gr.  'ArpoTTOC,  the  inflex- 
ible, thiin  a  [)rivati\'e,aii(i  rpeTretv,  to 
cliange.j  ((Jr.  4  Jtoin.  Myt/i.)  One 
of  the  three  I'areje,  or  Kates;  the 
one  that  cut  the  thread  of  life. 

Attic  Bee.  An  apjjellation  conferred 
by  the  ancients  npon  Plato  (428-;j47, 
B.  c),  the  famous  philoso])her  of 
Athens,  on  account  of  the  purity  of 
his  style,  and  the  imrivnied  beauty 
and  sweetnet-s  of  his  pioductions. 

Attic  Muse.  A  title  bestowed  by  the 
Greeks  upon  Xenophon  (b.  c.  450), 
the  celebrated  historian,  on  account 
of  the  merit  of  liis  style,  which  was 
regarded  as  a  model  of  simplicity 
and  elegance.  He  is  sometimes 
called  The  Muse  of  Greece. 

At'ti-cus.  1.  A  poetical  name  given 
by  Pope  to  Addison  in  the  "  Epistle 
to  Dr.  Arbutlinot"  which  forms  the 
"  Prologue  to  the  Satires."  Atiicus 
was  an  epithet  applied  by  the  Ro- 
mans to  a  person  distinguished  for 
his  learning  or  eloquence. 

2.  A  name  given  to  George  Faulk- 
ner (d.  1775),  to  Avhom  Lord  Chester- 
field addressed,  under  this  title,  a 
series  of  ironical  letters,  which  at- 
tained great  celebrity. 

3.  A  name  given  to  Richard  He- 
ber  (177'3-1833),  a  famous  English 
book-hunter,  in  Dibdin's  "  Biblio- 
mania." 

Attorney-General  to  the  Lantern. 
[Fr.  Procureur-General  de  la  Lnn- 
terne.'\  A  title  adopted  by  Camille 
Desmoulins  (1702-1794),  one  of  the 
earliest  instigators  of  the  French 
Revolution,  in  reference  to  the  sum- 
mary executions  in  the  streets,  when 
the  mob  took  the  law  into  their  own 
hands,  and  hanged  those  whom  they 
considered  tlieir  opponents,  by  means 
of  the  long  ropes  to  which  the  lamps 
were  suspended. 

A'tys.  [Gr.  'Aruf.]  {Or.  <f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  beautiful  Phrygian  shep- 
herd, beloved  by  Cybele^  who  made 
him  her  priest  on  condition  of  per- 
petual chastity;  but  he  broke  his 
vow,  became  insane,  unmanned  him- 
self, and  was  changed  into  a  tir-tree. 
[Written  also  At'tys,  Attis,  A  t- 
tes,  Att in.] 


Audhumbla  (Mwd-h*)(jm'bln[).  {Srnn4 
Jlylli.)  The  nana!  of  a  wondcrfuV 
cow  formed  by  the  fiat  of  Alfadur,  at 
the  creation  of  the  universe.  She 
fostered  the  giant  Vmir,  and,  by  lick- 
ing the  salt  rocks  in  Ginnunga-gap 
(from  which  siie  obtained  her  own 
nourishment),  she  occasioned  tlie  l)ntli 
of  Buri,  the  progenitor  of  the  gods. 
Audhunilthi  represents  the  power  of 
nature  acting  u])on  chaos.  [Written 
also  Audumbla  and  A  u  d  h  u  m- 
la.] 

Aud'ley,  John.  A  name  used  by 
theatrical  performers,  in  the  jjhrase, 
"  We  will , John  Audley  it,"  when  tliey 
intend  to  abridge  an  act  or  a  play. 
[Written  also  John  Urderle y.] 

iftSr"  "  In  fhe  year  1749.  Shut«r  was 
master  of  a  droll  at  Bartholnmew  Fair, 
and  it  was  liis  mode  to  lens^thon  the  ex- 
hibition until  a  sufficient  number  of  per- 
sons were  gathered  at  the  door  to  fiU  the 
house.  This  event  was  signified  by  a 
fellow  popping  his  head  in  at  the  gallery- 
door,  ami  bellowing  out.  ^  John  Aii///'i/,^ 
as  if  in  act  of  inquiry,  though  the  inten- 
tion was  to  let  Shuter  know  that  a  fresh 
audience  were  m  high  expectation  beiDW. 
The  consequence  of  this  notification  was, 
that  the  entertainments  were  immediately 
concluded,  and  the  gates  of  the  booth 
thrown  open  for  a  new  auditory." 

Pi(llpi/n. 

Au'drey.  A  coimtry  wench,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  As  You  Like  It  " 

4®="  "  Audrey  is  the  most  perfect  spe- 
cimen of  a  wondering  she -gawky.  . 
She  thanks  the  gods  she  is  foul.  and.  if 
to  be  poetical  is  not  to  be  honest,  she 
thanks  the  gods  also  that  she  is  not 
poetical."  Coic/fn   Onrkp. 

She  flourished  the  switch  she  held  in  her 
hand,  dropped  a  courtesy  as  low  as  a  lady  at 
a  birthnit;ht  introduction,  recovered  herself 
seeininj^ly  according  to  Touchstone'-s  diree- 
tiou.s  to  Auf/re;/,  and  opened  the  conversation 
without  waitinj;  till  any  questions  were  asked. 
6'u-  jr.  ^ott. 

Au'ge-as.  [Gr.  Avyia^.]  (Gr.  cf 
lioin.  Mijlh.)  A  king  of  Elis,  one  of 
the  Argonauts.  It  was  the  fifth  of 
the  twelve  labors  of  Hercules  to 
cleanse  his  stables  in  one  day  of  the 
tiltii  which  had  been  procUiccd  in 
them  by  ."JOOO  head  of  cattle  during 
thirty  years.  This  he  accomplished 
by  leading  the  waters  of  the  Alpheus 
and  the  Peneus  through  them.  The 
fable  of  the  Augean  stables  is  often 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunci»tioD,"  with    the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


AUL 


29 


AVE 


alluded  to  in  declamations  on  politi- 
cal corruptions  and  tlie  like.  [Writ- 
ten also  A  ugi  as.] 

Auld  Ane.  [  i'liat  is,  the  Old  One.] 
A  vulgar  name  for  the  Devil  in  Scot- 
land and  the  North  of  England.  The 
epithet  "old,"  prefixed  to  so  many 
or  the  titles  of  the  Devil,  seems  to 
indicate  the  common  opinion  tiiat  he 
can  only  appear  in  the  !?hape  of  an 
old  man. 

A-uld  Clootie.  A  Scottish  name  for 
the  Devil,  supposed  to  allude  to  his 
clortn  feet. 

Auld  Hangie.  A  name  popularly 
given  in  Scotland  to  the  Devil. 

Auld  Hornie.  Among  the  Scotch,  a 
familiar  name  for  the  Devil,  Avho  is 
often  described  and  represented  with 
horns. 

O  thou !  whatever  title  suit  thee, 

Auld  Hormc,  Satiin,  Nick,  or  Clootie,  .  .  . 

Hear  irn-,  Auld  Ilaneie.  for  a  wee, 

And  let  poor  damned  bodies  be.  Bums. 

Auld  Reekie.  A  designation  given 
to  Edinburgh  on  account  of  its 
smvkij  appearance,  as  seen  from  a  dis- 
tance ;  or,  according  to  others,  on  ac- 
count of  the  uncleanliness  of  its  pub- 
lic streets. 

4®=-  "•  This  desiarnation  [Auld  Reekie] 
remind-;  one,  that  the  (juarter  of  the  city 
to  which  it  particularly  refers,  presents, 
even  to  this  dav,  the  spectacle  of  the  most 
flagrant  violation  of  the  most  elementary 
rules  for  ti;e  preservation  of  public 
health  and  the  maintenance  of  domestic 
decency."'  London  Rtview. 

Ilech,  sirs,  but  ye  Ve  gotten  a  nastj',  cauld, 
wet  day  for  coiiiinj;  into  Auld  Reekie,  as  you 
kintra  folks  ca'  Embro.  J/.  Lind'saii. 

When  my  mind  was  quite  made  up  to  make 
Auld  Reekie  my  head-cjuarters,  I  besau  to  ex- 
plore, in  ^ood  earnest,  for  the  purpose  of  dis- 
covering' a  suitable  habitation.     Sir  W.  Scott. 

A.u-ro'ra  (9).  [Gr.  'Avp/of  wpa,  the 
golden  hour.]  i  Rnm  Myth.)  The 
goddess  of  the  morning,  or  of  the 
dawn;  sometimes  described  as  the 
goddess  of  day.  She  had  a  passion 
for  mortal  youths,  and  carried  oft" 
Clitus,  Orion,  and  Tithonus. 

Aus'ter.  {Rom.  }fijth.)  A  personifi- 
cation of  the  south  wind. 

Austrian  Hyena.  An  appellation 
given  to  .hilius  .lakob  von  Haynau 
(178G-1853),  an  Austrian  general  dis- 
tinguished for  his  sinister  appearance, 


and  notorious  for  his  ruthless  cruelty 
to  the  prisoners  —  particularly  the 
female  political  prisoners  —  captured 
by  the  forces  under  his  command,  in 
the  wars  against  Charles  Albert  of 
Sardinia  and  the  Hungarians  under 
Kossuth  and  Ourgey. 

Authentic  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Au- 
thtnticiis.]  An  honorary  a()pelIation 
conferred  upon  Gregory  of  Kimini 
(d.  1857),  a  celebrated  scholar  of  the 
Middle  Ages. 

Au-tol'y-cus.  1.  [Gr.  AvroAvKng.'] 
(  Cr.  (f  Rom.  Myth.)  (~)ne  of  the  Argo- 
nauts, a  son  of  ^lerciiry  and  Chione. 
He  is  very  famous  in  ancient  story 
as  a  successful  robber,  who  had  the 
power  of  metamorphosing  both  the 
stolen  goods  and  himself. 

2,  A  wittv  rogue  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Winter's  tale." 

A  lively,  bustling',  arch  fellow,  whose  pack 
and  oaken  ell-waiid,  studded  duly  with  brass 
points,  denoted  him  to  he  of  Aut'(ihicu.<s  pro- 
fession, occupied  a  sood  deal  of  the  attention, 
and  furnished  much  of  the  amusement,  of  the 
evening.  Sir  \V.  Scott. 

Av'a-lon.  In  ]\Iiddle-Age  romance, 
the  name  of  an  ocean  island,  and  of 
a  castle  of  loadstone  upon  it.  "  not 
far  on  this  side  of  the  terrestrial  par- 
adise; "  represented  as  the  abode  of 
Arthur  and  Obcron  and  Morgaine 
la  Eee.  It  is  most  fully  described  m 
the  old  French  Romance  of  "  Ogier 
le  Danois  " 

4®=-  "  Avalon  wa.s  perhaps  the  Island 
of  the  Blest  of  the  Celtic  mythology,  and 
then  the  abode  of  the  Fees,  through  the 
Breton  Kerrigan.  Writers,  however, 
seem  to  be  unanimous  in  regardingit  and 
Glastonbury  as  the  same  place, — called 
an  isle^  it  is  stated,  as  being  made  nearly 
such  by  the  '  river's  embracement  '  It 
was  named  Avalon,  we  are  told,  from  the 
British  word  aval,  an  apple,  as  it 
abounded  with  orchards  ;  and  Ynys 
giot/flrin,  Saxon  Glastn-ey.  glassy  isle, 
(Latin  G/ri.sZf)H/V;,)  from  the  green  hue  of 
the  water  surrounding  it."       Keighlley.' 

Avenel,  "White  Lady  of.  See  White 
Lady  of  Avenei>. 

A-ver'nus  (4).  [Gr.  'Aopvog.]  {Rom. 
Myth.)  Properly,  a  small,  deep  lake 
in  Campania,  occupying  the  crater 
of  an  extinct  volcano,  and  almost 
completely  shut  in  by  steep  and 
wooded  heights.     From  its  gloomy 


and  for  tlie  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


AYM 


30 


AZR 


and  awful  aspoct,  it  was  dopcribcd  by 
the  Latin  pot-ts  as  tlit- entrance  to  the 
lower  world;  but  tlie  name  was  often 
used  to  designate  tlie  lower  world  it- 
self. Avernus  was  also  regarded  as 
a  divine  being. 

Ay'mer,  Prior.  A  jovial  Benedictine 
monk,  prior  of  Jorvaulx  Abbey,  in 
Sir  Walter  Scott's  "  Ivaidioe." 

Ay^mon.  {Fr.pron.  a'my'i',  G2.)  A 
seani-mythical  character  who  tigures 
in  the  romances  and  romantic  poems 
of  the  Caroliau  series,  lie  is  repre- 
sented as  Duke  of  Dordona  (bor- 
dogne),  and  father  of  four  sons,  Ki- 
naldo,  Guicriardo,  Alavdo,  and  Kic- 
ciardetto  (or  Renaud,  Guiscard,  Alard, 
and  Richard),  whose  adventures  are 
the  subject  of  an  old  French  romance, 
entitled  "  Les  C^uatre-Filz-Aymon," 
by  Huon  de  Villeneuve,  a  French 
poet  of  the  age  of  Philip  II.  (li(>5- 
1223). 

^.-za'zel.  Among  the  ancient  Je^vs, 
the  name  inscribed  upon  one  of  t.ie 
lots  cast  by  the  high  priest,  on  the 
day  of  atonement,  to  determine  which 
of  the  two  goats  selected  as  a  sin-of- 
fering should  be  the  scape-goat,  and 
•which  should  be  sacriticed  to  Jeho- 
vah. (See  Z.et\  xvi.)  There  has  been 
much  discussion  among  biblical  in- 
terpreters as  to  the  meaning  of  the 
word  Az'izel.  Some  regard  it  as  a 
designation  of  the  goat  itself;  some 
as  the  name  of  the  place  to  which  he 
was  sent;  and  others  as  the  name  of 
a  personal  being  to  whom  he  Avas 
sent.  Tholuck  and  other  critics  ren- 
der the  word  "  for  complete  sending 
away."  Ewald  considers  Azazel  to 
have  been  a  demon  belonging  to  the 
pre-Mosaic  religion.  Another  opin- 
ioa  identities  him  with  Satan,  or  the 


Devil.    Milton  makes  him   Satan's 
standard-bearer. 

That  proud  honoi  claimed 
Aznzrl  ns  his  ri^ht,  a  cliuruh  tall; 
Who  f'ortliwith  from  his  glittering  staff  un- 
furled 
The  iuii)i'riiil  ensign,  which,  full  high  ad- 
vanced. 
Shone  like  a  meteor  streaming  to  the  wind, 
AVitli  gems  and  golden  luster  rich  emhlazed. 
Seraphic  arms  and  tnjphies.     I'ur.  Lo.<t,  Jik.  I. 

A'zo.  The  name  given  by  Byron  to 
the  Prince  of  Este,  in  his  poem  of 
"  Parisina."  The  poem  is  founded 
on  fact,  and  the  real  name  of  the 
prince  was  Nicholas;  l)ut  Lord  Byron 
substituted  Azo  as  being  metrically 
preferable.     See  Pahisina. 

Az'rS-el.  [Heb.,  help  of  God.]  In 
the  .Jewish  and  the  Mohammedan 
niytholdgv,  the  name  of  an  angel 
who  watches  over  the  dying,  and 
sej^arates  the  soul  trom  the  body. 

g^g"  ><  The  Mohammedan  doctors  .  .  . 
say  that  Azrael  .  .  .  wtuj  commissioned 
to  intiict  the  penalty  of  death  on  ail 
mankind,  and  that,  until  the  time  of 
Mahomet,  he  visibly  struck  down  before 
the  eyes  of  the  living  those  whose  time 
for  death  was  come  ;  and  although  not 
invariably  seen  by  by-stiinders,  yet  he 
was  supposed  to  be  always  visible,  in  the 
very  act  of  inflicting  the  mortal  blow,  to 
those  whose  souls  he  was  suunnoned  to 
take  away.  Malinmet,  struck  by  the  ter- 
rific effect  which  this  produced  upon 
men,  entreated  that  the  augel  of  death 
should  Uike  away  the  soulstof  men  with- 
out this  visible  appearance  ;  and.  in  con- 
sequence of  the  prayers  of  the  prophet, 
it  was  no  longer  iiermitted,  but  men's 
souls  were  taken  without  their  beholding 
the  angelic  form  which  removed  them."' 
Henry  Chrislmas. 
Even  Azrntl,  from  his  deadly  quiver 

Wlien  flies  that  shaft,  and  fly  it  mus-t, 

That  parts  all  else,  sliiill  (loom  fur  ever 

Our  liearts  to  undivided  dust.  Bifron, 

Madness  .  .  .  invisible,  impalpable,  and  yet 

no  black  AzraeU  with  wings  spread  over  half 

a  continent,  with  sword  sweeping  from  pea  to 

sea,  could  be  a  truer  reality.  Carlyle. 


ISS"  For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the   accompanying  Explanatious, 


BAA 


31 


BAG 


B. 


Ba'ai.  [Heb.,  lord,  master.]  (Myth.) 
A  general  appellation  of  honor  used 
—  sometimes  in  the  plural  t'orm,  Ba- 
alim—  to  designate  many  ditierent 
gods  among  the  ancient  nations  of 
the  East;  but  specilicallj  applied  to 
the  principal  nuile  deity  of  the  I'ha'- 
iiicians,  who  was  also  worshiped  in 
Assyria,  Egypt,  Carthage,  and  other 
countries.  He  was  the  god  of  tlie 
sun.     See  1  Kings  xviii. 

JO®"  "  The  word  Baiil  is  frequently  found 
coupled  with  some  epithet,  and  seems,  in 
puch  cases,  to  have  denoted  a  different 
deity,  or  perhaps  the  same  deity  regarded 
as  exercising  a  different  function.  Thus, 
we  have  Bail-Bereth,  ''the  Covenant 
Lord,"  worshiped  by  the  people  of  She- 
chem  ;  Bail-Peor,  the  Priapus  of  the  Mo- 
abites  and  Midianites  ;  and  Heelzebnb,or 
BaU-zebub,  —  the  "  Fly-god,"  —  the  idol 
of  the  Pliilistines  at  Ekron. 

Baba,  Ali  (ade'  ba^ba).  A  character 
in  the  "  Arabian  Nights'  Entertain- 
ments," which  relates  the  story  of 
his  adventures  with  the  Forty  Thieves 
{q.  v.)^  whom  he  discovers  from  his 
hiding-place  in  a  tree,  and  whose 
cave  he  enters  by  the  use  of  a  magic 
pass-word,  "  Sesame/'  which  he  has 
accidentally  overheard. 

Baba,  Cassim  (kas^sim  bS'ba).  A 
character  in  the  "■  Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments;"  the  brother  of  Ali 
Baba.     See  Forty  Tiiikves. 

The  spell  loses  its  power,  and  he  who  should 
then  hope  to  conjure  with  it  wonld  find  liini- 
Belf  as  much  mistaken  as  Cu^siin  .  .  .  when 
he  stood  cryinfr,  "Open,  Whent,"  "Open, 
Barley."  to  the  door  which  obeyed  no  sound 
but  "Open,  Sesame."  Macaulay. 

Baba,  Hajji  (had-'jee  ba'bjx).  The  hero 
of  a  novel  of  the  same  name,  bv  James 
Morier(  1780-1 849);  a  sort  of  rersian 
picaroon,  on  the  Gil-Bias  model. 

Babes  in   the  "Wood.     See  Chil- 

DKKN  IN  THE  WoOD. 

Babes  of  the  "Wood.  {Irish  Hist.) 
Insurrectionary  hordes  who  infested 
the  mountains  of  Wicklow  and  the 
woods  near  Enniscarthy,  toward  the 
end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  and 
who  Avere  guilty  of  the  greatest 
atrocities. 


Baboon,  Lewis.  Louis  XIV.  of 
France;  —  so  called  in  Arbuthnot's 
'•  History  of  John  Bull." 

Baboon,  Philip.  A  nickname  given, 
in  Arbuthnot's  "  History  of  John 
Bull,"  to  I'hilip,  Duke  of  Anjou, 
grandson  of  Louis  XIV.  of  France. 

Bac'chus.  [Gr.  Bd/cxo?,  the  noisy  or 
riotous  god.]  {Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.) 
The  son  of  Jupiter  and  Semele,  and 
the  god  of  wine;  represented  as  a 
beautiful  but  eft'eminate  youth. 

Bachelor  of  Salamanca.     See  Don 

CIIERUBI3I. 

Backbite,  Sir  Benjamin.  A  censo- 
rious character  in  Sheridan's  "  School 
for  Scandal." 

But  could  this  sad,  thoughtful  countenance 
be  tlie  same  vacant  face  of  folly  .  .  .  that 
looked  out  so  formally  flat  in  ]'opj)inst<  n,  so 
frothily  pert  in  Tattle,  so  impoteutly  busy  in 
Backbite  f  C//arlen  Luinb. 

Bac'tri-an  Sage.  An  epithet  given 
to  Zoroaster,  the  founder  of  the  J\la- 
gian  religion,  and  a  native  of  Bactria, 
the  modern  Balkh. 

Badebec  (bad'bek').  The  wife  of 
Gargantua,  and  mother  of  Pantag- 
ruel,  whose  birth  was  the  cause  of 
her  death;  which  is  not  to  be  won- 
dered at,  since  he  came  into  the 
world  accompanied  by  eighty  -  one 
f-ellers  of  salt,  each  leading  a  mule 
by  a  halter;  nine  dromedaries,  lad- 
en with  ham  and  smoked  tongues; 
seven  camels,  laden  with  eels;  be- 
sides twenty -five  wagons  full  of 
leeks,  garlic,  onions,  and  shallots. 

Badger  State.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  the  State  of  Wisconsin. 

Badinguet  (baMa»/ga',  62).  A  nick- 
name given  ill  F'rance  to  the  em- 
peror Napoleon  III. 

Ba'don,  Mount  (ba'dn).  The  scene 
of  a  battle  Avhich  is  said  to  have  been 
fought  by  King  Arthur  against  the 
Saxons  who  invaded  his  kingdom, 
and  in  which  the  latter  were  signally 
defeated.  By  some  writers,  Badon 
has  been  identified  with  Bath,  by 
others  with  Berkshire. 

Bag'stock,  Joe.    A  wooden-featured, 


and  for  the  Remarka  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-zxzii. 


BAI 


32 


BAN 


blue-faced  major  in  DicVien?'?  "Dom- 
bev  and  Son,"  ?elt -absorbed,  and  for 
ever  talkinf--  of  "J.  B.,"  "old  J.  B.," 
"Joey  B.,"  ike. 

Baillie  ITicol  Jarvie.  See  Jarvie, 
Baillie  Nicol. 

Baiser  de  Lamourette,  Le.  See 
Lamolhette's  Klss. 

Bajardo  fba-^--ar'do).     See  Bayard. 

Bal'der-st6ne,  Caleb.  In  Sir  Wal- 
ter Scott's  "  Bride  of  Lamniennoor," 
the  faithful  old  butler  of  the  Master 
of  Ravenswood.  He  stru^^gles  most 
virtuously,  without  food,  furniture,  or 
comfort,  to  maintain  an  appearance 
of  affluence,  and  is  always  ready 
with  some  ludicrous  shift  to  uphold 
the  fallen  dignity  of  his  patron 

4^  "  Of  all  our  author's  fools  and 
bores,  he  is  the  most  pertinafious.  the 
most  intrusive,  ami.  from  the  nature  of 
his  one  monotonous  note,  the  least  par- 
donable in  his  intrusion  His  silly 
buffoonerv  is  always  marring,  with  gross 
absurdities  and  degrading  associations, 
Bome  scene  of  tenderness  or  dignity." 

Senior. 

The  Gallic  for!\y  was  even  more  terrible 
and  fatal  than  Roinan  vanitv  chose  to  avow. 
It  was  like  ddeh  />Vj///e/-.<^>/if-Vthunder-storm, 
or  Edward  the  First's  destnietioii  of  charters, 
for  it  utterly  ruined  early  Roman  history 

Yunge. 

BolduT  Chjl'door).  [Old  Norse,  bril- 
liant, beautiful,  powerful  ]  (  Scnnd. 
Myth  )  The  second  son  of  Odin  and 
Frigga ;  the  god  of  the  summer  sun ; 
represented  as  the  noblest,  gentlest, 
and  ^nsest  of  all  the  gods,  and  so  fair 
that  a  brilliant  while  light  streamed 
from  his  person  In  consequence  of 
the  machinations  of  Loki,  he  was 
slain  by  his  twin  brother,  Ilodur,  the 
blind  god  of  war.  His  death  typifies 
the  disappearance  of  the  sun  from 
the  horizon  during  the  winter  months 
in  the  North.  [Written  also  Bal- 
der and  B  a  1 1  d  r.] 

Balisardo  (ba-le-saf'do).  [It.]  The 
name  of  a  sword  which,  according  to 
Ariosto,  in  his  "  Orlando  Furioso," 
■would  cut  even  enchanted  substances, 
and  was  mad*'  by  a  potent  sorceress, 
named  F'alerina,  to  kill  Orlando  with. 
It  became  the  property  of  Ruggiero. 

Ballengeigh,  Goodman  of.  See 
Goodman  of  Bali.engeigh. 


BSl'ma-whap'ple  (-pi).  A  stupidly 
obstinate  Scottish  laird  who  figures 
in  Scott's  novel  of  "  Waverley." 

Balmung  (lulil'nKKjng).  A  sword  of 
great  potency,  belonging  to  Siegfried 
in  the  (ierman  epos,  the  "  Nibelun- 
gen  Lied."  Von  der  Hagen  seems 
to  think  it  merely  the  sword  Mimung 
under  another  name.  See  Mimung 
and  WiELAND. 

Yoim?  hearts,  senoration  afler  peneration, 
will  think  with  themselves.  O  worthy  of  wor- 
Bhip.  thou  kinsr-desocndod.  irod-desccnded, 
and  poor  sister-woman  [the  Princess  de  I>am- 
balle]!  why  was  not  I  there  [at  her  execu- 
tion]: and  "some  Sword  Balmun'j,  or  Thor'a 
Hammer  in  my  hand?  Carlyle. 

BaPni-bar'bi.  A  land  occupied  by 
projectors,  visited  by  Gulliver  in  his 
famous  imaginary  "  Travels."  See 
Gulliver 

Bal-thaz'ar.  1.  A  merchant  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Comedy  of  Errors  " 

2.  A  .servant  to  Don  Pedro,  in 
"Much  Ado  about  Nothing.'' 

3.  A  name  assumed  by  Portia,  in 
Shakespeare's  •'  Merchant  of  Ven- 
ice."    See  Portia. 

4.  One  of  the  "  Kings  of  Cologne," 
—  the  three  magi  who  came  from  the 
East  to  worship  the  infant  Saviour. 

Balwery,  Great  "Witcli  of.  See 
Great  Witch  of  Balwery. 

Bal'-wtdd-der,  The  Rev.  Micah 
(l)aPhwith-ur).  A  Scottish  Presby- 
terian pastor  m  Gait's  "  Annals  of 
the  Parish,"  imbued  with  all  old- 
fashioned  national  feelings  and  prej- 
udices, but  thoroughly  sincere,  kind- 
hearted,  and  pious.  He  is  easy, 
gaiTulous,  fond  of  a  quiet  joke,  and 
perfectlv  ignorant  of  the  world ;  dili- 
gent, blameless,  loyal,  and  exemplary 
m  his  lifo,  but  without  the  tiery  zeal 
and  "kirk-tilling  eloquence"  of  the 
supporters  of  the  Covenant. 

Ban,  King.  The  father  of  Lancelot 
du  Lac,  and  a  famous  knight  of  the 
Round  Tal)le.  He  was  a  king  of 
Brittany,  and  a  faithful  ally  of  King 
Arthur. 

Banou,  Peri.     See  Paribaxou. 

Ban'quo  (bangk'wo).  A  Scottish 
thane  and  warrior  of  the  eleventh 
century,  and  progenitor  of  the  royal 
House    of    Stuart,   immortalized    in 


OS-  For  the    "  Key  to  tlie  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanyinj;   Explanationi, 


BAN 


33 


BAR 


Shakespeare's     traged}'     of    "Mac- 
beth." 

Like  Jianquo's  mtirdcrer,  tliero  was  Mood 
on  his  face,  as  well  as  upon  the  rowt'ls  of  liis 
spurs,  and  the  sides  of  his  ovcr-riddcn  horse. 
Sir  W.  Srott. 

Ban'shee.  In  the  popular  supersti- 
tions of  the  Irish,  a  sort  of  tutehiry 
female  demon,  called  the  wife  of  the 
fairies,  who  is  thought  to  give  warn- 
ing of  an  approachmg  death  by  wail- 
!ngs  and  shrieks  which  she  utters. 
[VVritten  also  B  e  n  s  h  i  e.] 

^aph'o-met.  A  mysterious  idol,  or 
rather  symbol,  which  was  in  use 
among  the  Templars.  It  was  a  small 
human  ligure,  cut  out  of  stone,  and 
covered  with  emblems  of  unknown 
■(gnitication.  It  had  two  heads,  one 
male  and  the  other  female,  with  the 
rest  of  the  body  purely  femmine 
Specimens  are  to  be  found  in  some 
cf  the  museums  of  Coiitinental  cities 

jgcg^  The  word  Bnplwnnt  is  supposed 
to  l)e  a  corruption  -  arising  from  tlie 
nesligcnee  of  some  transcriber  —  of  the 
name  Mahomet^  occurring  in  th«  deposi- 
tions of  witnesses  against  the  unfortunate 
Teniphirs,  who  were  accused  of  hiiving 
a  leaning  to  the  faith  of  the  Arabian 
prophet. 

Baptiste,  Jean  (zho"  ba'test',  62).  A 
sobricjuet  given  to  the  French  Cana- 
dians, these  being  very  common 
Christian  names  among  them. 

Barataria  (ba-ra-ta  re-a).  [Sp  ,  from 
(jai'dto,  cheap  ]  Sancho  Panza's  isl- 
and-city, in  Cervantes's  romance  of 
"  Don  Quixote  "  "  Sancho  then, 
with  all  his  attendants,  arrived  at  a 
town  containing  about  a  thousand 
inhabitants.  They  gave  him  to  un- 
derstand that  it  was  called  the  island 
of  Barataria,  either  because  Barata- 
ria was  really  the  name  of  the  place, 
or  because  he  obtained  the  govern- 
ment of  it  at  so  cheap  a  rate.  On 
his  an-ival  near  the  gates  of  the 
town,  the  municipal  otHcers  came  out 
to  receive  him.  Presently  after,  with 
certain  ridiculous  ceremonies,  they 
presented  him  with  the  keys  of  the 
town,  and  constituted  him  pei'petual 
governor  of  the  island  of  Barataria." 

Sancho  Vun/.n,  in  his  island  of  Jlnrnlnrin, 
neither  administered  justice  more  wisely,  nor 
was  interrupted  more  provokingly  in  his  per- 
sonal indulgences.  ShelUy. 


I  don't  oat  side-dishes;  and  a*  for  the  roait 
heef  of  1)1(1  Kn^land,  why,  the  meat  was  piii 
on  the  table  and  whisked  a\v;iy  like  Sancho's 
inauguration  feast  at  lUiiittaiiu.      Thackeray. 

Bar'ba-son  (-sn).  The  name  of  a 
tiend  mentioned  by  Shakespeare, 
"  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,"  a.  ii., 
sc.  2,  and  "  Henry  V.,"  a.  ii.,  sc.  1. 

Barber  Poet.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  Jacques  Jasmin  (17!J8-18(i4), 
a  popular  poet  of  Gascony,  and  a 
barber  or  hair-dresser  by  occupation. 

Bar-dell',  Mrs.  A  widow  landlady  in 
Dickens's  "  Pickwick  Papers,"  cele- 
brated for  the  suit  which  she  brought 
against  Mr.  Pickwic'K  for  an  alleged 
breach  of  promise  to  marry  her. 

Bard  of  A'v6n.  A  surname  often  ap- 
plied to  Shakespeare,  Avho  was  born 
and  buried  in  Stratford-upon-Avon. 

Bard  of  Ayrshire.  A  name  oitcn 
given  to  Robert  Burns,  the  great 
peasant-poet  of  Scotland,  who  was  a 
native  and  resident  of  tiie  county  of 
A3'r. 

Bard  of  Hope.  A  title  sometimes 
given  to  Thomas  Campbell  (1777- 
1844),  author  of  "The  Pleasures  of 
Hope,"  one  of  the  most  beautiful  di- 
dactic poems  in  the  language. 

Bard  of  Memory.  A  name  used  to 
designate  the  poet  Rogers  (1762- 
1855),  author  of  "The  Pleasures  of 
Memory." 

The  Bard  of  Memorii  slumhered  on  hia 
lauiels,  and  he  of  Ilope  had  scarce  begun  to 
attract  his  share  of  public  attention. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bard  of  Olney.  An  appellation 
sometimes  conferred  upon  the  ])oet 
Cowper,  who  resided  for  many  year? 
at  (31ney,  in  Buckinghamshire. 

Bard  of  Rydal  Mount.  A  surname 
sometimes  applied  to  the  poet  V\^ords- 
worth  (1770-1850),  who  resided  from 
1813  until  his  death  at  Rydal,  a  chap- 
elry  of  England,  in  the  countyof  West- 
moreland" His  dwelling  commanded 
a  beautiful  view  of  the  lake  of  Rydal 
and  of  a  part  of  Windermere. 

Bard  of  Twick'en-hani.  A  name 
often  given  to  the  poet  Pope  ( 1688- 
1744),  who  resided  at  Tvvickenham 
for  the  last  thirty  y(!ars  of  his  life. 

Of  all  the  abject  and  despicable  driveling, 
ever  driveled  by  clerk  or  layman,  is  all  that 


knd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 

3 


BAR 


34 


BAR 


lato  (IrivclinR  about  tho  eternal  principles  of 
poctrv,  and  the  genius  of  the  Jiard  of  Iwick- 
enJiam.  BlackwooiVs  Mug. 

Bar'dolph.  A  follower  of  Falstatf,  a 
bravo,  and  a  humorist,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor," 
and  iu  the  two  parts  of  "  King  Henry 
IV." 

AVe  are  muchof  the  mind  of  Falstaffs  tailor. 
Wi;  must  liave  bettor  assurance  for  Sir  John 
than  Jiardolp/i's.    We  Uke  not  the  security. 

Macaulay. 

Though,  like  Bardolph,  I  have  nothing, 
and  cannot  even  coin  my  nose  for  jj^uineas,  or 
inv  blood  for  dracliinas,  it  is  not  the  less  flat- 
♦crinj?  to  a  man's  minor  vanities  to  receive  a 
begging  letter.  Sala. 

Bare'b6ne"a  Parliament.  {En(]. 
Hist.)  A  nickname  conferred  upon 
the  Parliament  convened  by  Crom- 
well, July  4,  1653.  It  was  composed 
of  1.39  persons,  who  resigned  their 
authority  Dec.  12,  1053;  and  it  was 
so  called  from  a  fanatical  leather- 
seller  named  Praise-God  Barebone, 
who  was  one  of  the  principal  mem- 
bers, and  was  notorious  for  his  long 
prayers  and  sermons.  [Called  also 
LitlU  Parliament.^ 

Bar'guest.  {Fairy  Myth.)  A  fright- 
ful goblin,  armed  with  teeth  and 
claws,  which  is  an  object  of  terror  in 
the  North  of  England.  According 
to  Ritsou  ("  Fairy  Tales,"  p.  58),  the 
Barguest,  besides  its  many  other 
pranks,  would  sometimes,  in  the 
dead  of  night,  in  passing  through 
the  ditferent  streets,  set  up  the  most 
horrid  and  continuous  shrieks,  in  or- 
der to  scare  the  poor  girls  who  might 
happen  to  be  out  of  bed.  It  was 
generally  believed  that  the  faculty 
of  seeing  this  goblin  was  peculiar  to 
certain  individuals,  but  that  the  gift 
couhl  be  imparted  to  another,  at  the 
time  of  the  ghost's  appearance,  by 
the  mere  act  of  touching. 

Barlcis.  A  carrier  in  Dickens's  novel 
of'  P/avid  Copperlield,"  in  love  with 
a  servant-girl  named  Peggotty,  whom 
he  solicits  in  marriage  bv  Avriting  and 
displaying  before  her  eyes  a  proposal 
uniquely  worded,  "  Barkis  is  willin'." 

Barleyoorn,  Sir  John.  In  England 
and  Scotland,  a  jocular  name  for  ale 
or  beer,  which  is  made  of  barley. 
Sir  .John  is  the  subject  of  a  famous 
old  ballad  of  the  same  name.     In  a 


whimsical  English  tract  of  ancient 
date,  entitled  "  The  Arraigning  and 
Indicting  of  Sir  John  Barleycorn, 
Knt.,"  he  is  described  as  of  "  noble 
blood,  well  beloved  in  England,  a 
great  supporter  of  the  crown,  and  a 
maintainer  of  both  rich  and  poor." 
The  following  list  of  the  jury  is  curi- 
ous: — 

Timothy  Toss-pot.  Richard  Standfast. 

Benjaiiiiii  Bumper.  Small  Stout. 

Giles  Lick-spigot.  Jehu  Never-sober. 

Baruaby  Full-pot.  Obadiah  Tnirsty. 

Lancelot  'Joper.  Nicholas  Speud-thrift. 

John  Six-go-downs.  Edmund  Empty-purse. 

Sir  John  is  tried  in  regular  form,  the 
j  ury'  returning  a  verdict  of  Not  Giulty. 

Inspiring  bold  John  Barle>/com, 

"What  dangers  thou  canst  make  us  scorn! 

"\Vi'  tippenny  we  fear  nae  evil; 

WV  usqueba'e  we  'U  face  the  devil!  Bums. 

Good  John  Barlei/com,  also,  who  always 
heightens  and  exaggerates  the  prevailing  pas- 
sions, be  they  angry  or  kindly,  was  not  want- 
ing upon  this  occasion.  iSir  W.  Scutt. 

John  Jkirle;/corn  has  given  his  very  heart  to 
this  liquor  [the  "Archdeacon"]:  it  is  a  su- 
perior kind  of  ale,  the  Prince  ot  Ales,  with  a 
richer  flavor  and  a  mightier  spirit  than  you 
can  find  elsewhere  in  this  weary  world. 

JIawthonie. 

Bar'me-cide,  The.  A  prince  of  the 
illustrious  family  of  the  same  name, 
which  flourished  at  Bagdad  contem- 
poraneously with  the  Caliph  liaroun- 
Al-Raschid  and  his  predecessors ;  rep- 
resented in  the  "Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments "  as  ordering  rich 
viands  for  a  famished  beggar  named 
Shacabac,  and,  before  they  could  be 
brought,  calling  upon  him  to  help 
himself  to  the  ditferent  dishes,  — 
naming  them  one  after  another.  The 
beggar  humored  the  ^oke,  pretend- 
ing to  eat,  and  praismg  the  enter- 
tainment, and  even  protesting  that 
he  coidd  eat  no  more.  In  the  end, 
the  eccentric  host,  pleased  Avith  the 
patient  complaisance  of  his  guest, 
ordered  a  real  and  sumptuous  enter- 
tainment for  him,  in  place  of  tl>)|t  of 
which  he  had  previously  partakett 
only  in  imagination. 

It  is,  to  he  sure,  something  like  the  feast 
■which  the  Barmecide  served  up  to  Alnaschar 
[Shacabac];  and  we  cannot  expect  to  get  fat 
upon  such  diet.  Sir  \V.  Scott. 

The  Bai'mecide's  dinner  to  Shacabac  wa* 
onlv  one  degree  removed  from  these  solcina 
banquets.  Thackeray. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation."  with    the   accompanying   Explanation*. 


BAR 


35 


BAT 


As  for  Karl  Albert,  lip  had  his  new  pleasant 
dream  of  sovereignty  at  Prag:  Titular  of  Up- 
per Austria,  and  now  of  IJolunen  as  well,  and 
enjoyed  his  Feast  of  the  Btinneciite,  and  glo- 
rious repose  in  the  captured  metropolis  after 
dirticulty  overcome.  Curli/le. 

Bar'na-by,  Widow.  The  title  of  a 
iiovrl  by  Mrs.  Trollope,  and  the 
name  ot"  its  heroine,  avIio  is  distin- 
guished for  her  husband -hunting 
schemes,  her  pretension,  vulgar  as- 
surance, and  want  of  principle. 

Barnaby  Budge.  See  Rudge,  Bar- 
nab  y. 

Bar'na-diue.  A  dis.solute  and  reck- 
less character,  "  fearless  of  what  's 
past,  present,  and  to  come,"  who  tig- 
ures  in  Shakespeare's  "  Measure  for 
Measure." 

Barn-burners.  1.  Lawless  individ- 
uals who  secretly  set  tire  to  the  barns 
of  the  great  landed  proprietors  in  the 
State  of  New  York,  in  the  tirst  half 
of  the  nineteenth  century. 

2.  A  nickname  formerly  given  to 
the  more  radical  and  progressive  sec- 
tion of  the  Democratic  party  in  the 
United  States,  who  aimed  at  remov- 
ing the  abuses  connected  with  banks 
and  corporations,  in  allusion  to  the 
story  of  an  old  Dutchman  who  re- 
lieved himself  of  rats  by  burning  his 
barns,  Avhicli  they  infested. 

Barn'well,  George.  The  hero  of 
Lillo's  tragedy  of  the  same  naine. 
founded  on  an  old  ballad.  Barnwell 
is  a  London  apprentice  hurried  on  to 
ruin  and  murder  by  an  infamous  wo- 
man, who  at  last  delivers  him  up  to 
justice  and  to  an  ignominious  death. 

Barons,  "War  of  the.  See  War  of 
THE  Baroxs. 

Barrel-Mirabeau  (mir'a-bo).  [Fr. 
MlrabKau-  Tonneau.]  A  nickname 
given  to  Boniface  Riquetti.  Viscount 
de  Mirabeau  (1754-1792),  brother  to 
the  great  tribune.  He  was  so  called 
from  his  bulk,  and  the  quantity  of 
drink  he  usually  held. 

Bar'rett,  Clerk,  "Walter.  A  pseudo- 
nym of  Joseph  A.  Scoville  (d.  1804), 
author  of  "The  Old  Merchants  of 
New  York." 


Barriers,  Battle  of  the. 

TLE   OF   THE   BARRIERS. 


See  Bat- 


Bartholo  (baf'to'Io').  A  doctor  who 
plays  a  prominent  part  in  B(!aumar- 
chais'  comedies,  ''  Le  iMariage  de 
Figaro  "and  "Le  Barbierde  Seville." 

Bar-'thol'o-mew's    Day,   St.       [Fr. 

L(t.  t>t.-Biirtlu'hiiiij ;  Ger.  /i(nil«)/o. 
mciusitdc/it,  Bartholomew's  Night,  or 
B/ut/iodizcit,  Blood-wedding. J  {Fr. 
Jlist.)  The  appellation  given,  in 
English  books,  to  a  dreadful  massa- 
cre of  French  I'rotestants,  commenced 
in  Paris  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  ol 
St.  Bartholomew,  August  24,  1572 
The  massacre  was  secretly  ordere<} 
by  the  king,  Charles  IX.,  at  the  in^ 
stigation  of  his  mother,  the  queen^ 
dowager,  Catharine  de'  Medici,  and 
was  attended  by  circumstances  of 
the  most  tiendish  cruelty.  It  is  esti- 
mated that  in  all  30,0U0  (some  au- 
thorities say  70,000)  persons  were 
murdered.  [Called  also  The  Barthol- 
omtto,  and  The  Masmcrt  uf  St.  Bar- 
tJio[oinew.~\ 

Basile  (ba'zel').  A  character  in  Beau- 
marchais'  comedies,  "  Le  Mariage  de 
Figaro "  and  "  Le  Barbier  de  Se- 
ville; "  a  calumniator,  a  bigot,  and  a 
niggard.  The  name  is  used  gener- 
ically  in  French,  to  designate  any 
similar  character. 

Bas-'i-lis'co.  A  foolish  and  boastful 
knight  in  an  old  play  called  "  Soli- 
man  and  Perseda,"  so  popular  that 
his  name  became  proverbial. 

Bas-sa'ni-o.  The  lover  of  Portia,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Merchant  of  Venice." 
See  Portia. 

Bastard  of  Orle-ans.  [Fr.  Bdtard 
(f  Orleans.']  An  appellation  applied 
to  Jean  Dunois  (14();i-1468),  a  natu- 
ral son  of  Louis,  Duke  of  Orleans, 
brother  of  Charles  VI.  He  was  one 
of  the  most  brilliant  soldiers  that 
France  ever  produced. 

Ba-ta'vi-a.  The  ancient  Latin  name 
of  Holland,  —  often  used  in  modern 
poetry. 

Lo  !  where,  through  flat  Batavia's  ■willowy 

groves. 
Or  by  the  lazy  Seine,  the  exile  roves. 

Worclswortk, 

Bateman,  Lord.  See  Lord  Beichan. 
Bath,  Maid  of.  See  Maid  of  Batii. 
Bath,   Major  (2).     The  name  of  a 


»nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Kules  to  which  tke  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii- 


BAT 


86 


BAT 


character  in  Fioldin^'s  novel  of 
"AniL'lia;"  a  poor  and  pompous, 
but  luibk'-iuiiKk'd  fijeutlonian,  wlio 
swears,  '*  by  tin;  honor  and  dignity 
of  man,"  and  is  cau^lit  cooking  some 
gruel  in  a  saucepan  for  his  ailing  sis- 
ter. 
Bath,  "Wife  of.     See  Wife  of  Bath. 

Bat'r5-cho  niy-o-ma'chi-a.  See 

Battlk  ok  thk  1'kogs  and  Mice. 

Battle,  The  Tearless.  [Gr.  "AdaKpvg 
fidxv-]  {(jr.  Hist.)  An  engaj^ement 
between  the  Laceda-monians,  under 
Archidamus  II.,  and  tlie  Arcadians 
and  Argives  (li.  c.  3tj7),  in  which 
the  latter  were  defeated  with  great 
slaughter,  wliile  not  one  Spartan  fell. 
Hence,  says  I'lutarch,  it  was  "  known 
by  the  name  of  the  Tearless  Battle." 
[Called  also  The  Ttarltss  Victury.] 

Battle  of  Spurs.  [Fr.  Jourme  des 
Eptruns-I  {Fr.  Hist.)  1.  A  name 
given  to  the  battle  of  Courtray  (July 
11,  1302),  the  tirst  great  engagement 
between  the  nobles  and  the  burghers, 
which,  with  the  subsequent  battles  of 
Bannockburn,  Crecy,  and  Poictiers, 
decided  the  fate  of  t'eudalism.  In 
this  encounter,  the  knights  and  gen- 
tlemen of  France  were  entirely  over- 
thrown by  the  citizens  of  a  llemish 
manufacturing  town.  The  French 
nobility  rushed  forward  with  loose 
bridles,  and  fell  headlong,  one  after 
another,  into  an  enonnous  ditch, 
which  lay  between  them  and  their 
enwnies.  The  Avhole  army  was  anni- 
hilated; and  when  the  spoils  were 
gathered,  there  were  found  4000 
golden  spurs  to  mark  the  extent  of 
tlie  knightly  slaughter,  and  give  a 
\me  to  the  engagement. 

beheld  the  Flemish  weavers,  with  Namur 
and  Juliers  hold, 
Marching  lioincward  i'rom  the  bloody  Battle 
of  the  .Spurs  (j{  Gold.  Lofiufelloiv. 

2.  A  name  given  to  an  affair 
at  Guinegatc,  near  Calais  (August 
18,  1513),  in  which  the  English 
troops  under  Henry  VIII.  defeated 
the  French  forces.  The  allusion  is 
said  to  be  to  the  unusual  energy  of 
the  beaten  party  in  riding  off  the 
field. 
Battle  of  the  Barriers.     {Fr.  Hist.) 


The  name  of  a  1  ml  lie  fought  under 
the  walls  of  Paris,  on  the  30th  of 
March,  1814,  between  the  forces  un- 
der Napoleon  and  the  armies  of  the 
allied  sovereigns.  The  latter,  after 
an  obstinate  contest,  gained  the  vic- 
tory, which  led  to  the  capitulation  of 
Paris,  and  the  abdication  of  Napo- 
leon. 

Battle  of  the  Books.  The  subject 
of  a  satirical  composition  l)y  Swift, 
entitled  "  The  Battle  .  .  .  between' 
the  Ancient  and  ^lodern  Books  in 
St.  James's  Library,"'  alluding  to  a 
celebrated  controversy  anu)ng  the 
literary  men  of  iiis  day  regarding  the 
respective  merits  of  ancient  and  mod- 
ern learning. 

Battle  of  the  Frogs  and  Mice.  [Gr. 
j3aTijaxoiJ.vofj.axta,  Lat.  Batraclanuy- 
(iiiiftchia.\  The  subject  of  a  mock- 
heroic  poem,  ascribed  to  Homer,  but 
evidently  of  a  much  later  origin,  and 
apparentlv  designed  to  travestv  the 
"  Iliad  "  and  "  Odyssey." 

Battle  of  the  Giants.  {Fr.  Hist.)  A 
name  given  to  the  celebrated  batt/ 
of  Marignano  (Melegnano),  Sept.  l^i, 
1515,  in  which  Francis  I.  of  1  ranee 
fought  against  the  Swiss,  who  were 
led  by  the  Didce  of  .Milan.  Francis 
lost,  upon  this  occasion,  8000  of  his 
best  troops,  but  displayed  extraordi- 
nary generalship,  and  acquired  ex- 
tensive fame. 

Battle  of  the  Herrings.  {Enrj.  Hisft.) 
A  name  given  by  historians  to  an 
engagement  Avhich  took  place  Feb. 
12ri4-2!J,  in  which  Sir  John  Fastolfe, 
an  English  general,  at  the  head  of 
1500  men,  gained  a  victory  over  GOOD 
Frenchmen  near  Orleans,  and  brought 
a  convoy  of  stores  in  safety  to  the 
English  camp  l)efore  that  place.  The 
stores  comprised  a  large  (luantity  of 
herrings. 

Battle  of  the  Kegs.  The  subject 
and  title  of  a  mock-heroic  poem  by 
Francis  Hopkinson  (1738-17'Jl).  This 
ballad,  very  famous  in  the  time  of 
the  American  Revolution,  was  occa- 
sioned by  a  real  incident. 

jft5J=  "  Certain  machines  in  the  ^-m 
of  kegs,  charj^cd  with  gunpowder  »vere 
sent  down  the  river  to  annoy  the  Lritish 


For  the  "Key  to   the    Scheme   of  Pronunciation,"  with   the   accompanying  Explanations, 


BAT 


37 


BAY 


("hipping  then  at  riiil.idelphia.  The 
danger  of  these  niaeliiiies  being  dis- 
covered, the  ISritish  manned  tlie  wharfs 
and  sliippiiig.  and  diseharged  their  small- 
amis  and  cannons  at  ever}'  thing  they 
saw  tioating  in  the  river  during  the  ebb- 
tide.''  Autlior''s  Note. 

Battle  of  the  Nations.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  the  battle  of 
Leipsic  (1813),  one  of  the  greatest 
and  most  sanguinary  battles  of  mod- 
ern times,  on  account  of  the  various 
nationalities,  French,  Austrian,  Rus- 
sian, Prussian,  &c.,  which  were  there 
represented. 

Battle  of  the  Poets.  The  subject 
and  title  of  a  poem  (1725)  by  John 
ShetHeld,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  in 
wliich  he  brings  all  the  versifiers  of 
the  time  into  the  field. 

Battle  of  the  Standard.  {Eng.  Hist.) 
A  name  given  to  an  engagement  be- 
tween the  English  and  Scotch  at 
Northallerton,  Yorkshire,  Aug.  22, 
1138,  resulting  in  the  defeat  of  the 
latter.  It  was  so  called  on  account 
of  a  high  crucifix  borne  by  the  Eng- 
lish upon  a  wagon  as  a  militar}^  en- 
sign. 

Battle  of  the  Thirty.  [Fr.  Co)7ibat 
(fe  Trenk^.]  {Knfj.  if  Fr.  Hist.)  A 
name  given  to  a  celebrated  engage- 
ment which  took  place  at  a  spot 
known  as  Midway  Oak,  half-way 
betAveen  the  castles  of  Josselin  and 
Ploermol,  in  France,  March  27,  1351. 
The  French  General  Beaumanoir, 
commanding  the  former  post,  being 
enraged  at  the  depredations  commit- 
ted by  Bemliorough,  the  English 
general,  occupying  the  latter  posi- 
ticm,  challenged  him  to  tight.  Upon 
this,  it  was  agreed  that  thirty  knights 
of  each  party  should  meet  and  de- 
cide tiie  contest.  The  two  chiefs 
presented  themselves  at  the  head  of 
their  best  soldiers,  and  the  battle  be- 
gan in  earnest.  At  the  first  onset, 
the  Englisii  were  successful ;  but 
Bemborough  having  been  killed,  the 
French  renewed  the  struggle  with 
redoubled  courage,  and  finally  won 
the  victory. 

J^^  This  w»8  one  of  the  most  heroic 
exploits  of  the  age.  and  gained  such 
popularity,  that,  more  than  a  hundred 


ypars  later,  when  speaking  of  a  hard  eon- 
test,  it  was  usual  to  say.  •'  T'uere  was 
never  such  hard  lighting  fince  the  Battle 
of  the  Thirty."' 

Bau'cis.  [(ir.  Bac/vt*,.]  {Gr.  if  Rom. 
Myth.)  An  aged  IMirygian  woman, 
who,  Avith  her  husband,  I'hiiemon, 
hospitably  received  .Ju])iter  and  Mer- 
cury, after  bXi^yy  one  else  in  the  place 
had  refused  to  entertain  them.  The 
gods  visited  the  ct)untry  with  an  in- 
undation, but  saved  Baucis  and  Phi- 
lemon, and  converted  their  humble 
dwelling  into  a  magnificent  temple, 
of  which  this  pious  couple  became 
the  priests.  Having  expressed  a 
wish  to  die  together,  when  the  time 
of  their  departure  shoidd  come,  Ju- 
piter granted  their  request  by  chang- 
ing them  sinuiltaneously  into  two 
trees  before  the  temple. 

Bavieca  (ba-ve-a'ka).  The  name  of  a 
famous  steed  of  the  Cid.  He  sur- 
vived his  master  two  years  and  a 
half,  during  which  time  no  one  wa^ 
permitted  to  mount  him.  When  he 
died,  he  was  buried  before  the  gate 
of  the  monastesry  at  Valencia,  in  the 
public  place,  and  two  elms  were 
planted  upon  the  grave,  the  one  at 
his  head,  the  other  at  his  feet. 

Bay'ard  {Fr.pron.  bi'ar').  1-  A  fa- 
mous horse,  of  incredible  swiftness, 
belongmg  to  the  four  sons  of  Aymon. 
(See  Aymon.)  He  was  of  the  ordi- 
nary- size  when  only  one  of  them 
wi.slied  to  ride,  but,  when  all  four 
were  to  be  carried,  he  had  the  power 
of  elongating  his  body  till  it  was 
of  the  requisite  dimensions.  Many 
wonderful  things  are  related  of  him. 
It  is  said  that  one  of  his  foot-prints 
is  to  be  seen  in  the  forest  of  Soignes 
in  Brabant,  and  another  on  a  rock 
near  Dinant. 

2.  The  same  name  is  given  in  the 
old  romances  and  romantic  poems  to 
Rinaldo's  famous  steed,  a  wonderful 
animal  of  a  bright  bay  color,  Avhich 
had  formerly  belonged  to  Amadis  de 
(Jaul.  He  Avas  found  by  Malagigi, 
the  wizard  knight  and  cousin  to  Ki- 
naldo,  in  a  grotto,  together  with  a 
suit  of  arms  and  the  sword  Fusberta, 
under  the  watch  of  a  dratron  whom 


and  for  thie  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BAY 


38 


BEA 


he  charmed.     Having  obtained  the 

frize,  he  bestowed  it  upon  Kinaldo. 
n  the  French  romances,  he  is  repre- 
sented to  be  yet  alive  in  some  ol"  tlie 
forests  of  France;  but  runs  otfon  be- 
liolding  any  one ;  on  ■which  account 
all  hope  of  securing  him  is  vain. 
Bayes.  The  name  of  the  principal 
character  in  "  The  Rehearsal,"  a  witty 
and  celebrated  farce,  ostensibly  and 
chiefly  written  by  George  Villiers, 
Duke  of  Buckingham,  and  intended 
as  a  satire  upon  the  heroic  or  rhym- 
ing plays  of  his  time.  It  was  first 
brought  out  in  the  3'ear  1671.  In  its 
original  form,  the  character  of  Bayes 
was  meant  for  the  Hon.  Edward 
Howard  (for  whom  Sir  William 
I)avenant  was  afterAvards  substitut- 
ed); but,  m  its  present  form,  the  hero 
of  the  satire  is  Dryden,  who  had 
stood  forth  not  only  as  a  practicer, 
but  as  the  champion,  of  this  peculiar 
species  of  the  drama.  He  is  repre- 
sented as  greedy  for  applause ;  impa- 
tient of  censure  or  criticism ;  inordi- 
nately vain,  yet  meanly  obsequious 
to  those  who,  he  hopes,  will  gratity 
him  by  returning  his  flattery  in  kind ; 
and,  finally,  as  anxiously  and  dis- 
tressingly mindful  of  the  minute 
parts  of  what,  even  in  the  whole,  is 
scarce  worthy  of  attention. 

In  short,  sir,  von  are  of  opinion  with  Bayes, 
—  *'  'UHiat  the  (le%Ml  does  the  plot  signify,  ex- 
cept to  bring  in  fine  things?  "      Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bayou  State.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  the  State  of  Mississippi, 
which  abounds  in  bayous,  or  creeks. 

Bay  State.  A  popular  name  of  ^las- 
sachusetts,  which,  before  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Federal  Constitution,  was 
called  the  Colony  of  Massachusetts 
Bay. 

Lift  again  the  etntely  emblem  on   the  Bay 

State's  rusted  shield. 
Give  to  Xorthorn  winds  the  pine-tree  on  our 

banner's  twittered  field!  Wltitticr. 

■When  first  the  Pilgrims  landed  on  the  Bay 

State's  iron  shore. 
The  word  went  forth  that  slavery  should  one 

day  be  no  more.  Lowell. 

Bean  Lean,  Don'aid.  A  Highland 
robber -chief  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's 
novel  of  "  Waverley." 

B6amais,  Le  (lii  ba'af'nft').  A  sur- 
name given  to  Henry  IV.,  king  of 


France  and  Navarre  ( 1553-1508  )y 
from  his  native  province,  Le  B('*arn. 
He  was  so  called  in  especial  by  the 
I-,eaguers  (see  ]>KAGfR,  The),  who 
refused  to  recognize  him  as  king  of 
France,  or  even  as  king  of  Navarre. 

Bear  State.  A  name  by  which  the 
State  of  Arkansas  is  sometimes  des- 
ignated, on  account  of  the  number 
of  bears  that  infest  its  forests. 

Be'a- trice  (It.  pron.  ba-a-tre'cha). 
1.  The  Christian  name  of  a  young 
Florentine  lady  of  the  illustrious 
family  of  Portinari,  for  whom  the 
poet  Dante  conceived  a  strong  but 

f)urely  Platonic  affection,  and  whom 
le  represents,  in  the  "  Divina  Corn- 
media,"  as  his  guide  through  para- 
dise. 

2.  The  heroine  of  Shakespeare's 
"Much  Ado  about  Nothing." 

>6S^  "The  extraordinary  success  of 
this  play  in  Shakespeare's  own  day.  and 
ever  since,  in  England,  is  to  l>e  ascribed 
more  particularly  to  the  parts  of  Bene- 
dick and  Beatrice,  two  humorsonie  be- 
inas,  who  incessantly  attack  each  other 
with  all  the  resources  of  raillery.  Avowed 
rebels  to  love,  they  are  both  entangled  in 
its  net  b\'  a  merry  plot  of  their  friends  to 
make  them  believe  that  each  is  the  object 
of  the  secret  passion  of  the  other."  Sckle- 
gd.  Trans.  —  "  In  Beatrice,  high  intellect 
and  high  animal  spirits  meet,  and  excite 
each  other  like  fire  and  air.  In  her  wit 
(which  is  brilliant  without  being  imagina- 
tive) there  is  a  touch  of  insolence,  not  in- 
frequent in  women  when  the  wit  predom- 
inates over  retiection  and  imagination. 
In  her  temper,  too,  there  is  a  slight  in- 
fusion of  the  termagant ;  and  her  satiri- 
cal humor  plays  with  such  an  unrespect/- 
ive  levity  over  all  subjects  alike,  that  it 
required  a  profound  knowledge  of  women 
to  bring  such  a  character  wthin  the  pale 
of  our  sympathy.  But  Beatrice,  though 
willfnl,  is  not  wayward  ;  she  is  volatile, 
not  unfeeling.  She  ha.s  not  only  an 
exuberance  of  wit  and  gayety.  but  of 
heart,  and  soul,  and  energy  of  spirit." 

Mrs.  Jnmeson. 

3.  See  Beautiful  Pakricide. 

Beatrix.  See  Castlewood,  Bea- 
trix. 

Beau'clarc  (bo'-).  [Fr.,  fine  scholar.] 
A  surname  of  HenrA^  I.  of  England, 
who  received  a  more  lit«rar\'  educa- 
tion than  was  usually  given,  in  his 


!&"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


BEA 


39 


BEK 


time,  cither  to  the  pons  of  kings,  or 
to  laymen  of  any  rank. 

Beau  Tibbg.  A  prominent  character 
in  (lolclsmith's  "  Citizen  of  the 
AVorhl;  "  said  by  Hazlitt  to  be 
"  tlie  best  comic  sketch  since  the 
time  of  Addison;  nnrivaled  in  his 
finery,  his  vanity,  and  his  poverty." 

Beautiful  Corisande  (ko're'z6"d', 
62).  [Kr.  La  Belle  Corisamh'.]  A 
sobri(iuet  given  to  Diane  d'Andou- 
ins(1554-l()20),  Countess  of  Guiche 
and  Grammont,  and  widow  of  Philip 
de  Grammont. 

Beautiful  Gardener.  [Fr.  La  Belle 
Janlinlere.]  A  sobriquet  given  to  a 
mistress  of  Henry  IV.  of  France. 

Beautiful  Parricide.  A  name  given 
to  lifatrice  Cenci  (d.  159'J),  who  is 
alleged  to  have  nmrdered  her  father, 
a  wealthy  Roman  nobleman,  on  ac- 
count of  the  revolting  and  incestu- 
ous brutality  with  which  he  treated 
her.  For  this  crime,  she  was  con- 
demned and  put  to  death.  Some 
historians  maintain  that  she  had  no 
part  in  the  murder,  but  was  the  vic- 
tim of  an  infernal  plot  hatched  by 
two  robbers,  or  by  unknown  persons 
whose  agents  they  were.  The  story 
of  Beatrice  has  been  made  the  sub- 
ject of  a  powerful  tragedy  by  the 
poet  Shelley. 

Beautiful  Ropemaker.     See  Rope- 

3IAKKK,  The  BEAUTIKIfL. 

Beauty  and  the  Beast.  [Fr.  Ln  Belle 
it  la  Brie]  The  hero  and  heroine  of 
a  celebrated  fairy  tale  —  written  in 
French  by  Mine.  VilleneuA'e  —  which 
relates  how  a  young  and  lovely  wom- 
an saved  the  life  of  her  father  by  put- 
ting herself  in  the  power  of  a  tright- 
ful,  but  kind-hearted  monster,  who.se 
respectful  aftcction  and  deep  melan- 
choly finally  overcame  her  aversion 
to  his  hideousness,  and  induced  her 
to  consent  to  marrA^  him,  whereupon 
he  was  freed  from  the  enchantment 
of  which  he  had  been  a  victim,  and 
appeared  to  her  in  his  proper  form 
and  character  of  a  handsome  and 
graceful  yoimg  prince. 

So  stiP  [Caroline  of  Anspach,  afterward 
queen  of  CJeor^'e  II.  of  EnKlandl  lived  nt  Ber- 
lin, brilliant  thoiij^h  unportioned,  with  the 
rough  cub  Friedricli  Wilhelni  much  following 


her  about,  find  passinnntely  loyal  to  her,  as 
tlio  /:r(iKt  was  to  lUdxfy ;  whom  she  <rKl  not 
mind  oxcei)t  aH  a  cub  loyal  to  her,  beinf;  live 
yearH  older  than  he.  Carlyle. 

Beauty  of  But'ter-mere.  A  cele- 
brated and  lovely  English  girl,  uauud 
Mary  Robinson,  who  was  married,  by 
means  of  the  most  odious  deceit,  to 
John  Hatfield,  a  heartless  impostor, 
who  was  executed  tor  forgery,  at 
Carlisle,  Sept.  3,  ]80;3. 

Bede,  Ciith'bert.  A  pseudonym  a- 
dopted  by  the  Rev.  Edward  Briulley, 
a  popular  English  hutnorist  of  the 
present  day. 

Bede,  The  Venerable.     A  famous 

English  monk  of  the  eighth  centurv, 
whose  surname  was  given  him  in 
honor  of  his  eminent  talents,  virtues, 
and  learning. 

4®"'  There  is  an  old  .«itory  that  a  monk 
in  vain  jittempted  to  write  an  epitaph 
upon  Bede,  and  fell  asleep,  lenTing  it 
thus  :  "  Hac  sunt  in  fo^.^^a  Bedae  .  .  . 
os.^'a ;  ■'  and  that,  when  he  awoke,  he 
found,  to  his  great  surprise  :ind  satisfac- 
tion, the  long-sought  epithet  .supplied  by 
an  angelic  hand, —  the  whole  line  stiind- 
ing  thu.s  : 
"  Ilac  sunt  in  fossa  Bedae  venerahilis  OBsa," 

Bed'i-vere,  Sir.  King  Arthur's  but- 
ler He  was  a  knight  of  the  Round 
Table,  and  a  prominent  figure  in 
many  of  the  old  romances  of  chivaliy. 
[Written  also  B  e  d  v  e  r .] 

Bed''red-din'  Has'sSn.  A  charac- 
ter in  the  stor}'  of  "  Noureddin  and 
his  Son,  and  Shemseddin  and  his 
Daughter,"  in  the  "Arabian  Kights' 
Entertainments." 

She  [Effie  Deansl  amused  herself  with  vis- 
iting the  dairy,  in  which  she  had  so  lone  been 
assistant,  and  was  kg  near  discoveiinf;  herself 
to  May  Iletley,  by  betrayiiif?  lier  acquaint- 
ance with  the'  celebrated  receipt  for  Dunlop 
cheese,  that  she  compared  herself  to  Pe^lreil- 
ilin  Jlassan,  whom  the  vizier,  hin  father-in- 
law,  discovered  by  his  superlative  skill  in 
composint?  cream-tarts  with  nepiier  in  thcni. 
Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Beefing-tSn,  Mi-lor'.  A  character 
in  "  The  Rovers,  or  The  Double  Ar- 
rangement," in  the  poetry  of  the 
"Anti-Jacobin."  He  is  an  Fjiglish 
nobleman  in  exile  by  the  tyranny  of 
King  John,  previous  to  the  signature 
of  Magna  Charta. 

"Will  without  power,"  said  the  sagacious 
Casimir  to  AfUcn-  HeefingUm,  "is  like  children 
playing  at  soldiers."  3/acaukif/- 


■nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rulea  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BEE 


40 


BEL 


Be-el'ze-bub.  [Hob.  haal,  lord,  and 
shiih,  lly.J  [Mulli-)  'I'lie  title  of  a 
heathoii  deity,  to  whom  the  .lews 
asenl)ed  tlie  soverei^'iity  of  the  evil 
spirits.  iMihoii,  in  his  "  Paradise 
Lost,"  makes  iiim  second  in  rank  to 
Satan  ;  but  Wienis,  the  celel)rated  de- 
mono^napherof  the  sixteenth  century, 
?;avs,  that  Satan  is  no  longer  the  sov- 
ereij;-n  of  hell,  but  tliat  Beelzebub 
reig-ns  in  his  place.  Other  mediieval 
writers,  who  reckon  nine  ranks  or 
orders  of  demons,  place  Beelzebub  at 
the  head  of  the  lirst  rank,  which 
consists  of  the  false  gods  of  the  Gen- 
tiles. 

"Which  when  JWJzehvh  perceived,  than  wliom, 
Satan  except,  none  hijrlier  sat,  with  frrave 
Aspect  lie  rose,  and  in  his  rising  seemed 
A  pillar  of  state:  deei)  on  his  front  engraven 
Deliberation  sat  and  ])ublie  care; 
And  prini'cly  counsel  in  his  face  yet  shone, 
Majestic  tliouiih  in  ruin:  sage  he  stood, 
With  Atlantcan  sho\ilders  tit  to  bear 
The  weight  of  mightiest  monarchies. 

MUton. 

Befana,  La  (la  ba-fa'na).  [It.,  a  cor- 
ruption of  (ir.  'ETTiciai'm,  the  Epiph- 
any.] In  Italy,  a  common  personi- 
fication of  the  Epipliany,  or  I'estival 
of  the  Manifestation  of  Christ  to  the 
Gentiles,  —  variously  represented  as 
a  saint  and  as  a  tairy.  According  to 
other  accounts,  she  is  the  Italian  bug- 
bear of  naughty  children. 

i(JS=-  The  Epiphany  (.Ian.  6)  is  the  day 
for  tlie  presentation  of  Christm  is  gifts  in 
Italy,  and  there  is  a  pleasant  fiction  that 
La  i5efiua  goes  about  at  niglifc  like  St. 
Nicholas,  carrying  presents  to  children. 
Whether  from  thus  personifs  iug  the 
season,  or  from  whatever  other  cause, 
a  figure,  called  La  Befana,  is  suspended 
outside  the  doors  of  houses  at  the  begin- 
ning of  Lent. 

Beichan,  Lord.  See  Lokd  Beichan. 

BeL  {Ch(d<l  .\fyth.)  The  same  as 
Belus  and  Baal.     See  Baal,  Belus. 

Be-la'ri-us  {'.)).  The  name  of  one 
of  the  characters  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Cymbeline.'" 

Belch,  Sir  To'by.  Uncle  to  Olivia, 
in  Siiakespeare's  "Twelfth  Night." 
He  is  a  type  of  the  reckless.  Jolly 
roisterer  of  the  Elizabethan  period. 

_  Balmuwlnipple  was  voimg,  stout,  and  ac- 
tive; hut  tlie  Baron,  iniiidtely  more  mister 
of  his  weapon,  would,  liVe  .V;;-  7'obi/  /Iclr/i, 
linve  ticliled  his  t)pponents  other  gates  than 


he  did,  had  he  not  been  under  the  influence 
of  "  Ursa  Major"  [a  driiiking-cup  so  c  dledj. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bel'fftrd.  A  friend  and  corres]»ond- 
ent  of  Lovelace,  in  Kichardson's 
novel,  "The  History  of  Clarissa  Har- 
low." 

It  is  well  for  thee,  that,  Lovelace-and-/?ei- 
yb;v/-like,  we  came  under  a  convention  to 
pardon  every  species  of  liberty  which  we 
may  take  witli  eacli  other.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Be'li-aL  [Heb.  b'/i^  not,  and  ja'al, 
useful.]  A  Hebrew  word  meaning 
irordiUssncss,  and  hence  rccklirs.-mtss, 
laich'ssiu'ss.  The  translators  of  the 
Bible  have  fre(]uently  treated  the 
word  as  a  jjroper  name,  though  there 
can  be  !io  ([uestion  that  in  the  Old 
Testament  it  is  a  mere  a])pellative. 
In  the  New  Testament,  the  apostle 
Paul,  in  order  to  indicate  in  the 
strongest  terms  the  high  degree  of 
virtue  after  which  the  Ciiristian 
shoidd  strive,  places  Christ  in  direct 
opposition  to  Belial.  "  What  con- 
cord hath  Christ  with  Belial V"  (2 
Cor.  vi.  15.)  The  term  as  here  used 
is  generally  understood  as  an  ajjpel- 
lative  of  Satan,  as  the  personilication 
of  all  that  was  bad;  tliough  Bengel 
explains  it  of  Antichrist,  as  more 
strictly  the  opposite  of  Christ.  Mil- 
ton in' his  "  Paradise  Lo?t  "  expressly 
distinguishes  Belial  from  Satan,  and 
he  assigns  him  a  prominent  place  ia 
Pandemonium.  Those  mediieval  de- 
nionograpliers  wiio  reckoned  nine 
ranks  of  evil  spirits,  placed  iielial  at 
the  head  of  the  third  rank,  which 
consisted  of  inventors  of  mischief 
and  vessels  of  anger.  According  to 
Wierus,  who,  following  old  authori- 
ties, establishes  a  complete  infernal 
court,  Belial  is  its  autbassador  in 
Tin-key. 

Belidl  came  last,  than  whom  a  spirit  more 

lewd 
Fell  not  from  heaven,  or  more  gross  to  love 
Vice  for  itself. 

A  f;ii'-er  person  lost  not  heaven:  he  seemed 
For  di'jrnity  conijiosed  and  high  exploit: 
But  all   w"as  false  and    hollow;   though    hia 

tongue 
Dropped  manna,  aaid  could  make  the  worse 

a  ppear 
The  better  reason,  to  perplex  and  da.sh 
Maturest  counsels;  for  his  thoughts  wer«  low. 

PeJial,  the  dissolutest  spirit  that  fell, 
The  sensiialest,  and,  after  Asmodai, 
The  flesliliest  Incubus.  Hilton. 


OS"  For  the   "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanation^ 


BEL 


41 


BEL 


But,  could  he  mako  an  efrt'ctuiil  strusRlo, 
lie  mifilit  depi'iKl  iiP""  tlu'  aid  of  the  servile 
Harrere,  a  sort  of  /:<-liiil  in  tin-  Couvuntion, 
tlu'  nieani'st,  vet  nut  tliu  least  ublo,  aniony; 
tlidsc  tUllfii  spirits,  wlu),  with  j;riat  adroitness 
and  inLcenuity,  as  well  as  wit  and  tdocinence, 
ctvuulit  opportunities  as  tliey  arose,  and  was 
eminently  dexterous  iu  beinjr  always  strouf^ 
upon  the  strongest,  and  safe  upon  the  safest, 
side.  «i''''  ^y^-  ^cott. 

Belianis.      See    Don    Bklianis    of 

GitKlX'K. 

Be-lin'da.  1.  The  poetical  name  of 
the  heroine  of  Pope's  "  Kape  of  the 
Lock,"  whose  real  name  was  Arabella 
Fermor.  A  frolic  of  g-allantrv  in 
which  Lord  Petre  cut  otf  a  lock  of 
this  lady's  hair  —  a  frolic  so  much 
resented'  that  the  intercourse  of  the 
two  families,  before  very  friendly, 
was  interrupted  —  was  the  occasion 
of  the  poem,  which  was  written  with 
the  design  of  bringing  the  parties  to 
a  better  temper,  and  etfecting  a  rec- 
onciliation. 

2.  The  heroine  of  Miss  Edgeworth's 
novel  of  the  same  name. 

Bell,  Ac'tSn.  A  pseudonym  of  Anne 
Bronte  (d.  1849),  an  English  novelist, 
author  of  "Agnes  Grev  "  and  "  The 
Tenant  of  Wildfeld  Hall." 

Bell,  Adam.  The  hero  of  a  famous 
old  ballad  having  this  name  for  its 
title ;  a  wild,  north  -  country  outlaw, 
celebrated  for  his  skill  in  archer}'. 

Bell,  Bessy.  A  character  in  a  ballad 
by  xVllan  Ramsay,  founded  on  fact, 
and  entitled  "  Bessy  Bell  and  Mary 
Gray."  These  Avere  daughters  of 
two  country  gentlemen  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Perth.  WliL'ii  tlic  plague 
of  1GG6  broke  out,  they  built  them- 
sehes  a  bower  in  a  very  retired  and 
romantic  spot  called  Burn  Braes, 
where  they  were  supplied  with  food 
and  other  necessaries  by  a  young 
gentleman  who  was  in  love  with  both 
of  them.  After  a  time  he  himself 
caught  the  disease,  and,  having  un- 
wittingly communicated  it  to  them, 
they  all  three  sickened  and  died. 

Mrs.  Le  Blanc,  a  yoiin'^  woman  fair  to  look 
upon,  witli  her  yountc  infant,  has  to  live  in 
greenwood,  like  a  beautiful  Jli'ssi/  />e?/ of  song, 
ner  bower  thatched  with  rushes;  —  catching 
premature  rheumatism.  Carlijlc. 

Bell,  Cur'rer.  A  pseudonym  adopted 
by  jNIrs.  NichoUs  (Charlotte  Bront('% 
—  1816-1855,  —  sister  of  Anne   and 


Emily  Bronte),  wife  of  the  Rev.  Ar- 
thur Pell  Nicliolls,  and  a  distin- 
guished English  novelist,  author  of 
"•Jane  Eyre,"  "  Siiirlev,"  anil  "  Vii- 
lette." 
Bell,  Ellis.  A  pseudonym  of  Emily 
Bronte  (d.  1848),  sister  of  Anne  and 
Charlotte  Bronte,  and  author  of 
"  Wuthering  Heights." 

4@"  "  Averse  to  personal  publicity, 
we  veiled  our  names  under  those  of 
Currer,  Acton,  and  Ellis,  Hell,  —  the  am- 
biguous choice  being  dictat«!d  by  a  sort 
of  conscientious  scruple  at  assuming 
Christian  names  positively  masculine, 
while  we  did  not  like  to  declare  ourselves 
women,  because  —  without  at  that  time 
suspecting  that  our  mode  of  writing  and 
thinking  was  not  what  is  called  '  femi- 
nine '  — we  had  a  vague  impression  that 
authoresses  are  likely  to  be  looked  oa 
with  prejudice  ;  we  had  noticed  how 
critics  sometimes  use  for  their  chastise- 
ment the  weapon  of  personality,  and  for 
their  reward  a  flattery  which  is  not  true 
praise."'  C  Bronte. 

Bell,  Peter.  The  stibject  of  Words- 
worth's poem  entitled  "  Peter  Bell,  a 
Tale  in  Verse."  A  parody  on  this 
poem  appeared  soon  after  its  publica- 
tion, and  Shellev  wrote  a  burlesque, 
entitled  "Peter  Bell  the  Third,"  in- 
tended to  ridicule  the  ludicrous  pu- 
erility of  language  and  sentiment 
which  Wordsworth  often  affected  in 
the  championship  of  the  poetical 
system  he  had  adopted. 

Bel 'las-ton.  Lady.  A  profligate 
character  in  Fielding's  novel,  "  The 
History  of  Tom  .lones,  a  Foinidling." 
Suppose  we  were  to  describe  the  doinfrs  of 
such  a  person  as  Mr.  I^ovelace,  or  my  Lti'hi 
Bf'llaxton  .  .  .  ?  IIow  the  pure  and  outrap;ed 
Nineteenth  Century  woidd  lihish,  scream, 
run  out  of  the  rooVn,  call  uway  the  youn^ 
ladies,  and  order  Mr.  Mudie  never  to  send 
one  of  that  odious  author's  books  asrain  ! 

Thackernfi. 

Belle  France,  La  (la  bel  fru»ss,  02). 
[Fr.,  beautiful  France.]  A  popidar 
name  applied  to  France,  corres])ond' 
ing  to  the  epithet  "  Merry  England," 
as  applied  to  England. 

Biddy  Fudire.  thouu:h  delighted  to  find  her- 
self in  "  La  Hello  Frrincf,"  was  yet  somewhat 
disappointed  at  the  unjiicturesfiueness  of  thi 
country  betwixt  Calais  and  Amiens. 

llrit.  i,-  For.  Rer. 

BelTen-den,  Lady  Margaret  (bel '- 
len-dn).  An  old  'I'nry  lady,  mistress 
of  the  Tower  of  Tillietudlem,  in  Sir 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Tlules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BEL 


42 


BEL 


Walter  Scott's  novel  of  "  Old  Mor- 
tality." 
Bel-16r'o-ph6n.  [Gr.  Bt/lAfpo^wv.] 
{Gr.  c/  Lat.' Mijth.)  A  beautiful  son 
of  the  Corinthian  King  Glaueus,  and 
a  grandson  of  Sisyphus.  With  the 
help  (if  the  winged  steed  Pegasus,  he 
killed  the  Chinia-ra.  He  afterward 
attempted  to  rise  with  Pegasus  into 
heaven;  but  Jupiter  sent  a  gad-tly, 
which  stung  the  horse  so  that  he 
threw  the  rider,  who  bei-anie  lame 
and  blind  in  consequence,  and  wan- 
dered lonely  through  the  Aleian  field, 
consumed  by  grief,  and  avoiding  the 
paths  of  men. 

Upled  by  thee  [Urania], 
Into  the  heaven  ot  heavens  I  have  presumed, 
An  earthly  guest.    .  .  .  With  like  safety  guided 

down, 
Return  me  to  my  native  element; 
Lest  from  this  flying  steed  unreined  (as  once 
MeUeroiihvn,  tho'ugli  from  a  lower  sphere), 
Dismounted  on  the  Aleian  field  I  fall. 
Erroneous  there  to  wander  and  forlorn. 

Milton. 

Bel-le'rus  (9).  {Myth.)  The  name 
of  a  Cornish  giant. 

Sleep'st  by  the  fable  of  BeUeriis  old, 
Where  the  great  vision  of  the  guarded  mount 
Looks  toward  Namancos  and  Bayona's  hold. 

Jlilton. 

Bel-lo'na.  {Rom.  Myth.)  The  god- 
dess of  war ;  the  companion  and 
sister  or  wife  of  iMars.  Slie  prepared 
the  chariot  of  Mars  when  he  was 
going  to  war;  and  she  appeared  on 
the  battle-field  with  disheveled  hair, 
a  torch  in  her  hand,  and  a  whip  to 
animate  the  combatants. 

Her  features,  late  so  exquisitely  lovely  in 
their  ptileness,  [were]  now  inflamed  with"  the 
fiiry  of  frenzy,  resembling  those  of  a  Bel- 
lona.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Imminent  blood-thirsty  Regiments  camped 
on  the  Champ  de  Mar*';  dispersed  National 
Assembly;  red-hot  eannon -balls  (to  burn 
Paris):  — the  mad  War -god  and  Bellona's 
Bounding  thongs.  Carlyle. 

Bell-the-Cat.  A  by-name  given  to 
Archibald  Douglas  (d-  1514),  a  Scot- 
tish nobleman,  from  an  incident  that 
occurred  at  Lauder,  where  the  great 
barons  of  the  realm  had  assembled 
at  the  call  of  the  king,  James  ILL, 
to  resist  a  threatened  invasion  of  the 
country  by  Edward  lY.  of  England. 
They  were,  however,  less  disposed  to 
advance  against  the  English  than  to 
correct  the  abuses  of  King  James's 
administration,  which  were  chiefly  to 


be  ascribed  to  tie  intluence  exerted 
over  him  by  fnean  and  unworthy 
favorites,  jnxrticularly  one  Cochran, 
an  arcliitect,  but  termed  a  masou  by 
the  liaughty  barons. 

^mT  "  Many  of  the  nobility  and  barons 
held  a  seiret  council  in  the  church  of 
Lauder,  where  they  enlarged  upon  the 
evils  which  Scotland  sustained  through 
the  insolence  and  corruption  of  Cochran 
and  his  associates.  While  they  were  thus 
declaiming,  Lord  Gray  requested  their 
attention  to  a  fable.  '  The  mice.'  he  said, 
'  being  much  annoyed  by  the  persecution 
of  the  cat,  resolved  that  a  bell  should  bo 
hung  about  pu>ss  neck,  to  give  notice 
when  she  was  coming.  But.  though  the 
measure  was  agreed  to  in  full  council,  it 
could  not  be  carried  into  eflect,  because 
no  mouse  had  courage  enough  to  tie  the 
bell  to  the  neck  of  the  foruidable  ene- 
my.' This  wa.s  as  much  as  to  intimate 
his  opinion,  that,  though  the  discontented 
nobles  might  make  bold  resolutions 
against  the  king's  niinisters,  )  et  it  would 
be  liiflicult  to  find  any  one  courageous 
enongh  to  act  upon  them.  Archibald, 
Earl  of  .A^ngus,  a  man  of  gigantic  strength 
and  intrepid  courage,  and  head  of  that 
second  family  of  Douglas  whom  1  before 
mentioned,  started  up  when  Gray  had 
dot  e  speaking.  •  I  am  he."  he  said. '  who 
will  bell  the  cat ;  '  from  which  expression 
he  was  distinguished  by  the  name  of 
Bdl-tlie-  Cat  to  his  dying  day." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

lie  was  equally  worthy  of  blazon  with  him 
perpetuated  in  Scottish  song  and  story  by  the 
surname  of  A'e?/-//(f'-C'«f.  ()'.  Irving. 

Beloved  Disciple.  An  appellation 
often  given  to  John  the  evangelist 
and  apostle,  Avho  enjoys  the  memo- 
rable distinction  of  having  been  the 
chosen  and  favored  friend  of  our 
Lord.  See  Jchn  xiii.  23;  xix.  26, 
27:  XX.  2;  xxi.  7,  20. 

Beloved  Merchant.  A  title  bestoAved 
by  Edward  III.  of  England  upon 
Michael  de  la  Pole,  an  eminent  Lon- 
don merchant,  who  in  the  following 
reign  became  lord  chancellor,  and 
was  raised  to  the  peerage  as  Earl  of 
Suffolk. 

Beloved  Physician.  An  appellation 
sometimes  used  to  designate  St.  Luke. 
It  was  first  conferred  upon  him  by 
the  apostle  Paul  (  Cul.  iv.  14). 

Bel'phe-gor.  {Myth.)  A  Canaanitish 
divinity,  worshiped  particularly  I)y 
the  Moabites.    Wierus  calls  him  the 


For  the  "  Key  to   the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanatlonai 


BEL 


43 


BEN 


ambassador  in  France  from  the  in- 
fernal court  of  Beelzebub.  According 
to  I'ulci,  he  was  a  Mahometan  deity; 
according  to  Macchiavelli,  an  arch- 
fiend who  had  been  an  archangel. 
Bel-phoe'be.  [Fr.  6e//e,  beautiful,  and 
J'lid^i',  Diana.  J  A  huntress  in  Spen- 
ser's "Faery  Queen;"  intended  as 
a  likeness  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  the 
woman,  as  contradistinguisiied  from 
the  ([ueen,  who  is  imaged  in  Glori- 
ana. 

J8£g=  "  Flattery  more  highly  seasoned 
may  have  been  offered  her  [Queen  Eliza- 
beth], but  noue  more  delicate  and  fjrace- 
ful  tliaii  that  coutamed  in  the  finished 
portrait  of  Belphoebe.  She  represents 
that  pure  and  high-spirited  niaideuhood 
which  the  ancients  embodied  in  Diana  ; 
and,  like  her,  the  forest  is  her  dwelling- 
place,  and  the  chase  her  favorite  pastime. 
The  breezes  have  imparted  to  her  their 
own  tieetness,  and  the  swaying  foliage  its 
praceful  movement.  .  .  .  8he  is  passion- 
less and  pure,  self -.sustained  and  self- 
dependent,  "in  maiden  meditation  fiucy 
free,'  and  shines  ^ith  a  cold  lunar  light, 
and  not  the  warm  glosv  of  day.  The 
author  has  mingled  the  elements  of  her 
nature  so  skillfully  tliat  the  result  is 
nothing  harsh,  unnatural,  or  unfemi- 
nine  ;  and  has  so  combined  the  lofty  and 
the  ideal  with  the  graceful  and  attractive, 
that  we  behold  in  her  a  creature  .  .  . 

'  Too  fair  for  worship,  too  divine  for  lovo. '  " 
Geo.  S.  llillnrd 

Belted  "Will.  A  title  bestowed  upon 
Lord  William  Howard  (1503-1640), 
warden  of  the  western  marches. 

His  Bilboa  hlailo,  by  Marchmen  felt, 
Huns  in  a  broad  and  studded  belt; 
Hence,  in  rude  phrase,  the  Borderers  still 
Called  noble  Howard,  Belted  Will. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 
It  is  within  the  memory  of  even  middle- 
aged  peib-ons  that  tlie  south-western  portion 
of  our  eouiitj-y  was  in  as  lawless  a  state  as 
ever  were  tiie  borders  of  Enirland  and  Scot- 
land, and  with  no  Belted  IVitl  to  hang  up 
ruffians  to  swing  in  the  wind. 

Atlantic  Morithli/. 

Beltenebros  (bel-ta-na-bros')-  [Sp., 
the  darkly  beautiful,  or  fair  forlorn; 
from  6c//o,  beautiful,  and  tencbmso, 
dark,  gloomy.]  A  name  assumed  by 
Amadis  de  Gaid  on  retiring  to  a 
hermitage,  after  receiving  a  cruel 
letter  from  his  mistress,  Oriana. 

Be'lus.  [Gr.  B^Ao?.]  {Mjith.\  The 
ancestral  hero  and  national  divinity 
of  several  Eastern  nations,  especially 


the  Chalda^ans  and  Assyriai-.i..  lie 
is  the  same  as  BaiiL  See  Baau 
[Called  also  Bd.^ 
BePvi-de'ra  (D).  The  heroine  of 
Otway's  tragedy  of  "  Venice  Pre- 
served; "  remarkable  for  her  beauty, 
conjugal  tenderness,  spotless  purity, 
and  agonizing  sulierings.     See  Jaf- 

FIEK. 

More  tears  have  been  Bhcd,  probably,  for 
the  sorrow.s  of  /Selvidvid  and  Jioninjia  than 
for  those  of  Juliet  and  Desdeiuona. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bendy,  Old.     See  Old  Bkndy. 

Ben'e-dick.    A  young  lord  of  Padua, 

in  Shakespeare's  "  Much  Ado  about 
Nothing,"  who  combines  the  charac- 
ters of  a  wit,  humorist,  gentleman,  and 
soldier.  He  marries  Beatrice  (though 
at  first  he  does  not  love  her)  after  a 
courtship  which  is  a  contest  of  wit 
and  raillery.  The  name  is  often  used 
as  a  .synonym  lor  a  newly-married 
man,  and  is  sometimes  written  JJene- 
dki.1  though  this  is  not  Shakesjxiare's 
orthography.     See  Beatuice. 

All  these,  like  licvei/ick^f  brushing  his  hat 
of  a  morning,  were  signs  that  the  sweet  youth 
was  ni  love  Sir  (T.  Scott. 

In  the  first-named  place,  Henry  found  his 
dear  iSencdick,  tlie  married  man,  who  ap- 
peared to  be  rather  out  of  humor  with  his 
matrimonial  chain.  TlKtckeran. 

Ben'en-ge  li.  Old  Ham'et  [Sp.  Cide 
IlamHe  Benen(/eli,Vi]e'(]A  :x-mn'ta  bfi- 
nen-ha'lee].  An  imaginary  JMoonsh 
chronicler  fT-om  whom  ("ervantes  pro- 
fesses to  have  derived  his  account  of 
the  adventures  of  Don  Quixote. 

^Sf  "  The  Spanish  commentators  .  . 
have  discovered  that  Cid  Hamt-t  Benen- 
geli  is,  affer  all,  no  more  than  an  Ara- 
bian version  of  the  name  of  Cervantes 
himself.  Cid.,  as  all  the  world  knows, 
means  lord  or  signior.  Hanwt  is  a  com- 
niou  Moorish  prefix.  Betu7iii(ii  signifies 
the  son  of  a  sta^,  which,  being  expressed 
in  Spanish,  is  hijo  del  cieruo,  cereal,  or 
cervavteno.''''  Lnrkhart. 

I  vow  and  pT-otest,  thnt,  of  the  two  bad 
cassocks  I  am  worth  in  tlie  wo M.  T  woiild 
liave  ffiven  the  latter  of  them,  as  freely  as  ever 
Cid  Hamet  offced  his,  onlv  to  have  stood  by 
and  lieard  my  Uncle  Toby's  accompaniment. 

Stc^me. 

But  thou,  at  least,  mine  own  especial  pen  !  — 

Once  laid  aside,  but  now  assimied  again, — 

Our  task  complete,  like   Ilaiuet's,  shall    be 

free.  Bj/ron. 

Be-ni'ci-a  Boy.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  John  (!.  Heenan,  a  noted  American 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  tlie  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  »ee  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


BEN^ 


44 


BES 


pufjilist,  who  rosidod  for  a  time  at 
Beiiicia,  in  Caliloniia.  lii  J8(j(),  he 
had  a  fainoiis  li<^ht  with  'I'oni  Savors, 
tilt' "  chaiiii)i(»n  prize-lighter  of  Eng- 
land," which  histed  tor  more  tlian  two 
hours,  and  was  then  stopped  by  the 
intert'erenee  of  the  ])oliee. 

Ben-nas'kar.  A  wealthy  merchant 
and  magician  of  Delhi,  in  Ridley's 
"Tales  of  the  Genii." 

Like  the  jewolcrof  Delhi,  in  the  house  of 
the  magician  /kiinas/cnr,  I,  at  length,  reached 
a  vaulted  room  dedicated  to  secrecy  and 
silence.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Ben'net,  Mrs.  A  demure,  shy,  in- 
triguing, eciuivocal  character  in  Field- 
ing's novel  of  "Amelia." 

Benshie.     See  BA^'sHEE. 

Ben-vo'li-o.  A  friend  to  Romeo,  and 
nephew^  to  Montague,  ni  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of  "  Romeo  and 
Juliet." 

Berchta.    See  Bektha,  Frau. 

Berkeley,  Old  Woman  of.  The 
title  and  subject  of  a  ballad  by 
Soathey. 

Ber-lin'  Decree.  ( Fr.  Hist  )  A  de- 
cree issued  at  Berlin,  on  the  21st  of 
November,  1808,  by  the  Emperor 
Napoleon  I.,  declaring  the  whole  of 
the  British  islands  to  be  m  a  state 
of  blockade,  and  all  vessels  trading 
to  them  to  be  liable  to  capture  by 
French  ships  It  also  shut  out  all 
British  vessels  and  produce  both  from 
France,  and  from  all  the  other  coun- 
tries Avhich  gave  obedience  to  the 
French. 

Ber-mob'ffigs.  An  old  form  of  Ber- 
mudas, and  the  Spanish  pronuncia- 
tion of  the  name  of  the  tirst  dis- 
coverer of  these  islands,  Btrmudtz, 
who  sighted  them  in  1527 

In  the  deep  nook,  where  once 
Thou  callcdstme  up  at  inidui;jcht  to  fetch  dew 
From  the  .still-vexed  Bcrmuotlita,  there  she  's 
hid.  SJiak. 

Ber-mu'das.  A  cant  term  formerly 
applied  to  certain  ol)scure  and  intri- 
cate alleys  in  London,  in  which  per- 
sons lodged  who  had  occasion  to  live 
cheaply  or  be  concealed.  They  are 
supposed  to  have  been  the  naiTow 
passages  north  of  the  Strand,  near 
Covent  Garden. 

Ber-nar'do.     The  name  of  an  officer 


in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Ham- 
let." 

Bernardo  del  Carpio.     See  Carpio, 

BEKNAltDO  DEL. 

Berserker  (bef-sef'ker).  [Old  Norse 
ie/",  bare,  naked,  and  sar/ci',  a  shirt 
of  mail. J  (Scfuid.  Mytli.)  A  re- 
doubtable warrior  avIio  went  into  bat- 
tle unharnessed,  his  strength  and 
fury  serving  hiin  instead  of  armor, 
which  he  despised.  He  had  twelve 
sons,  who  inherited  his  name  as  well 
as  his  warlike  ferocity. 

Bertha,  Frau  (frow  bef'ta).  [0.  Ger. 
Pcnict'i,  shining,  white;  fi'om  the 
same  root  as  the  Eng.  br>f//if.]  In 
Germany,  an  imper.'^onation  of  the 
Epiphany,  corresponding  to  the 
Italian  Bcfanu,  variously  represented 
as  a  gentle  white  lady  who  steals 
softly  to  neglected  cradles,  and  rocks 
them  in  the  absence  of  careless  nurses, 
and  also  as  the  terror  of  naughty 
children.  She  has,  besides,  the  over^ 
sight  of  spinners.  She  is  represented 
as  having  an  immensely  large  foot 
and  a  long  iron  nose  The  legend 
concerning  her  is  mainly  of  Christian 
origin,  but  with  some  admixture  of 
heathen  elements.  [AVritten  also 
Frau  Berchta  and  Frau 
Precht.] 

Ber'tha  with  the  Great  Foot  [Fr. 
Bert/it  an  (irnnd  Pitd]  The  moth- 
er of  Charlemagne,  l)y  King  Pepin, 
and  the  great -grand -daiigliter  of 
Charles  Martel;  —  said  to  have  been 
so  named  because  she  had  one  toot 
larger  than  the  other. 

Ber'tram.  Count  of  Rousillon,  a  char- 
acter in  Shakespeare's  "All 's  Well 
that  Ends  Well.-' 

Bess,  Good  Queen.  A  sobriquet  by 
which  Queen  Elizabeth  of  England 
is  often  lanuliarly  reierred  to.  Her 
reign,  lake  it  all  in  all,  was  a  happy 
as  well  as  a  glorious  one  for  England, 
and  the  contrast  it  otters  to  that  of 
her  predecessor  is  very  striking. 

Bes'sus.  The  name  of  a  cowardly 
cajUain  in  Beaumont  and  Fletciier's 
play,  "A  King  and  No  King." 

The  story  which  Clarendon  tells  of  that  af- 
fair [the  panic  of  the  royal  troops  at  Nasebyj 


8@"  For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


BET 


45 


BIG 


remlnde  us  of  the  excuses  by  vcliich  Bessus 
and  Bubadil  explain  their  cudgelinjis. 

JJacaulay. 

Bettina  (bcfte'nsi).  [A  dimimitive  of 
Eli/.al)otli.]  The  name  uiidor  which 
Eli/alx'tli  Breiitano  (b.  1785),  after- 
ward the  wife  of  Ludwig  Aehini  von 
Arnini,  corresponded  witii  Goetiie. 
This  correspondence,  under  the  title 
of''  Cioethe's  i^etters  to  a  Cliild,'''  was 
publislied  in  18.35,  and  was  translated 
by  Bettuia  into  English. 

Bevilah.     See  Land  of  Beulah. 

Beuves  d' Aygremont  (bov  dag'r'- 
nio"',  43,  02).  The  iather  of  iMala- 
gigi,  or  Maugis,  and  uncle  of  Kinaldo. 
He  was  treacherously  slain  by  (.iano. 

Be'vis  of  South-anip'ton,  Sir.  A 
famous  knight  of  romance,  whose 
marvelous  exploits  are  rehvted  in  the 
second  book  of  Drayton's  "  Poly- 
olbioii."  Heylin  clanns  him  as  a 
real  Earl  of  Southampton.  He  is 
the  Bciicts  de  I/diitoiie  of  the  French, 
the  JJiKiro  (V  Anfona  of  the  Italians. 
[Called  also  Btvls  of  ILnujdon.^ 

Ytene's  oaks  —  beneath  whose  shade 

Their  theme  the  nierr}'  minstrels  made 

Of  Ascapart  and //ei'is'bold.       Sir  W.Scott. 

Be-z6n'ian  (-van).  A  name  given  by 
Pistol  to  Shallow  m  Shakespeare's 
"  King  Heniy  IV."  (Part  H.,  a.  v.,  sc. 
3).  It  comes  from  the  Italian  word,  hi- 
sof/no  (need,  want),  and  is  frequently 
used  by  the  old  dramatists  as  a  term 
of  reproach,  meaning  be<j(jar,  low 
fdloiL\  or  scowvlrel.  Strictly,  it  is 
not  a  proper  name,  but  it  is  com- 
monly thought  to  be  such  in  the  in- 
stance referred  to. 

Bi-an'c§i.  1.  A  daughter  to  Baptista, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew." 

2.  Mistress  to  Cassio,  in  the  tragedy 
of  "Othello." 

Bibulus,  Consvil.     See  Consul  Bib- 

ULl'S. 

Bick'er-stafif,  Isaac,  Esq.,  Astrolo- 
ger [•!).  The  assumed  name  mider 
which  the  "  Tatler  "  was  edited. 

iPg=  '•  Isaac  BickerstafT,  Esquire,  A.«- 
trolntjer.  was  an  iiiiatrinary  person,  almost 
as  well  known  m  that  ace  (A'Mison's]  as 
Mr.  P:inl  Vr\  or  Mr.  Pickwick  in  our^. 
Swift  had  assumeil  the  name  of  Bicker- 
staff  in  a  satirical  pamphlet  against  Par- 
tridge, the  almanac  -  maker.      Partridge 


had  been  fool  enough  to  pul)lish  a  fu- 
rious reply.  BickcrstalT  liMd  rejoined  in 
a  second  pamphlet,  still  more  diverting 
than  the  first.  All  the  wits  had  combined 
to  keep  up  the  joke,  and  the  town  waa 
long  in  convulsions  of  laughter.  Steele 
determined  to  employ  the  name  which, 
this  controversy  had  made  po])ular  ;  and, 
in  Ai)ril,  1709,  it  was  announced  that 
Isaac  Bickerstiiff,  Esquire,  Astrologer, 
was  about  to  publish  a  paper  called  tho 
'  Tatler.'  '•  Macaiday. 

t^Ssr"  '■  Swift  is  said  to  have  taken  the 
name  of  Bickerstajf  from  a  smith's  sign, 
and  added  that  of  Isanr.  as  a  Christian 
appellation  of  uncommon  occurrence. 
Yet  it  was  said  a  living  pei-son  was  act- 
ually found  who  owned  both  names." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bicorne.     See  Ciiiciievaciie. 

Bid'den-den  Maids  (bid^dn-dn).  A 
name  given  to  two  immarried  sisters, 
named  Mary  and  Elizabeth  Chulk- 
hurst,  born  at  Biddenden,  in  1100, 
and  joined  together,  as  tradition 
states,  by  the  shoulders  and  hips. 
They  lived  for  thirty -four  years, 
when  one  died,  and  the  other,  persist- 
ing in  a  refusal  to  be  separated  from 
the  corpse  of  her  sister,  succumbed 
six  hours  after.  They  are  said  to 
have  left  twenty  acres  of  land,  called 
"  Bread  and  Cheese  Land,"  "vvhere, 
on  the  afternoon  of  Easter  Sunday, 
SIX  hiuidred  rolls  are  distributed  to 
strangers,  and  two  hundred  and  sev- 
enty loaves,  weighing  three  pounds 
and  a  half  each,  Avith  cheese  in  pro- 
portion, are  given  to  the  poor  of  the 
parish,  —  the  expense  being  defrayed 
by  the  rental  of  the  land.  Halstead, 
in  his  "  History  of  Kent,"  rejects  this 
story  as  fabulous,  so  far  as  it  relates 
to  the  Chulkliurst  sisters,  and  asserts 
that  the  "  Bread  and  Cheese  Land  " 
was  left  by  two  maiden  ladies  by  the 
name  of  Preston. 

Bifrost  ( bif'n  St,  46).  [Old  Norse  Mfa, 
to  move,  and  ivst,  space.]  {Scmul. 
iMljth.)  The  name  of  the  bridge 
between  heaven  and  earth,  typilied 
by  the  rainbow,  and  supposed  to  be 
constructed  of  stones  of  various  col- 
ors. It  was  extremely  solid,  and 
built  with  great  art. 

Big-endians,  The.  The  name  of  a 
religious  ]iarty  in  the  imaginary  em- 
pire of  Lilliput,  who  made  it  a  matter 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Kules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BIG 


46 


BLA 


of  duty  and  conpcience  to  break  thoir 

egj?s  at  the   larj,^e  end.     Tliey  were 

re{;:arded    as    heretics    by    tlie    law, 

■vvhieh  required  all  persons  to  break 

the  smaller  end  of  their  eggs,  under 

pain  of  heavy  penalties  in   ease  of 

disobedience/   Under  this  name  the 

Roman   Catholics   of    England     are 

satirized,  and  under  that   of  Little- 

eu'Vuin/.,  the  English  Protestants  are 

ridiculed.     See  LiLLirUT. 

The  Vatican  is  jircat;  vet  poor  to  Chim- 
borazo  or  the  Peak  of  Tcnorifto;  its  doiue  is 
but  a  foolish  /;><i-ct)linn  or  Little-cntliau  chip 
of  an  C'ji'^'-sliuil  compared  with  that  star- 
fretted  Uonie  where  Arcturus  and  Orion 
ghince  for  ever.  Carlyle. 

BiglSw,  Mr.  Hosea.  The  feigned 
autliop  of  a  series  of  liuinorous  satiri- 
cal ])oems,  in  the  Yankee  dialect, 
really  written  by  James  Kussell  Low- 
ell, and  directed  mainly  against  sImv- 
ery,  the  war  between  the  United 
States  and  Mexico,  and  the  late  Ke- 
bellion  of  tlie  Southern  States. 

Biinini  (be'me-nee).  A  fabulous  isl- 
and said  to  belong  to  the  Haliama 
group,  but  lying  far  out  in  the  ocean, 
where,  according  to  a  tradition  cur- 
rent among  the  natives  of  Puerto 
Kico,  was  a  marvelous  fountain  pos- 
sessing the  power  of  restoring  youth. 
This  was  an  object  of  eager  and 
long-continued  quest  to  the  celebrat- 
ed Spanish  navigator,  Juan  Ponce 
de  Leon. 

Bi'on-dePlo.  A  sen^ant  to  Lucentio, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew." 

Birch.,  Har'vey.  A  celebrated  char- 
acter in  Cooper's  novel  of  "  The 
Spy." 

Bireno  (be-ra'no).  InAriosto's  "Or- 
lando Furioso,"  the  lover  and  husband 
of  Olimpia,  Avhom  he  abandons. 

Biron  (be-ro"')'  A  "  merry  mad-cap 
lord"  attending  on  the  king  of  Na- 
varre, in  Shakespeare's  "  Love's  La- 
bor 's  Lost." 

Bishop,  Madame.  The  name  given 
to  a  mixture  of  port,  sugar,  and  nut- 
meg. 

Bishop  Bun'y§,n.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  ,Iohu  r)Uuy;in(lfi-2S-l()88),  because 
he  visite<l  his  religious  brethren  in 
various  parts  of  England,  exhorting 


them  to  good  works  and  holiness  o, 
life. 

Bishop  of  Hip'po.  A  title  by  which 
St.  Augustine  (■i')i-^-l(i)  is  often  re- 
ferred to,  he  having  held  the  office 
for  many  yi-ars. 

Black'a,-3re,  Widow  (-it-ker).  A  per- 
verse, bustling,  masculine,  pettifog- 
ging, and  litigious  character  in 
Wvcherley's  comedy  of  "  The  Plain 
Dealer." 

jflgf  "  The  Widow  Blackacre,  bejond 
compjirison  Wycheriey's  best  comic  char- 
acter, is  the  Countess  in  Ilaciiie's  '  Plai- 
deurs,*  talkins^  the  j  irgon  of  Eni^lish  in- 
stead of  French  chicane."  Macaulay. 

Black  Act,  The.  A  name  given  in 
England  to  an  act  passed  in  1722  (9 
Geo.  I.,  c.  22).  It  was  so  called  be- 
cause it  was  occasioned  by,  and  was 
designed  to  put  an  end  to,  the  wan- 
ton destruction  of  deer,  game,  jilau- 
tations,  &c.,  by  persons  calling  them- 
selves Blacks^  and  having  their  faces 
blackened  or  otherwise  disguised.  It 
was  repealed  June  21,  1827,  by  7  and 
8  of  Geo.  IV.,  c.  27. 

BSr"  The  acts  of  the  Scottish  Parlia- 
ment from  .James  I.  of  Scothxnd  to  1.58ft 
or  1587  were  called  Blark  Aci$^  because 
printed  in  black  or  Saxon  characters. 

Black  Assize,  The.  A  common  des- 
ignation of  the  sitting  of  the  courts 
held  at  Oxford  in  1.577,  during  Avhich 
judges,  jurymen,  and  counsel  were 
swept  away  by  a  violent  epidemic. 
The  term  is  also  used  to  denote  the 
epidemic. 

Black  Captain,  The.  [Fr.  Le  Capi- 
t'lint  Nolr.]  A  name  given  by  the 
French  to  Lt.-Col.  Dennis  Davidotf, 
an  otticer  in  the  Russian  army,  in  the 
time  of  the  French  invasion. 

Black  Death,  The.  A  name  given 
to  the  celebrated  Oriental  plague 
that  devastated  Asia,  Europe,  and 
Africa,  during  the  fourteenth  century. 
It  took  this  name  from  the  black 
spots,  symi)tomatic  of  putrid  decom- 
position, wliich,  at  one  of  its  stages, 
appeared  upon  the  skin. 

Black  Dick.  A  sobriquet  of  Birhard, 
Earl  Howe  (172r,-17!il)).  the  English 
admiral  who  was  sent  with  a  squad- 
ron to  operate  against    D'Estaing, 


OS"  Tor  the  "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  rronunciation,"   with  tlic  accompanying  Lxplanations, 


BLA 


47 


BLA 


who  commanded  the  French  forces 
on  the  coast  of  America  during  the 
■war  of  the  RevoUition. 

Black  Hole  of  Calcutta.  A  name 
commonly  given  to  a  certain  small 
and  close  dungeon  in  Fort  U'illiam, 
Calcutta,  the  scene  of  one  of  the  most 
tragic  events  in  the  history  of  Uritish 
India.  On  the  capture  of  Calcutta, 
by  Surajah  Dowlah,  June  18,  1756, 
the  British  garrison,  consisting  of 
140  men,  being  made  prisoners,  were 
locked  up  at  night  in  this  room, 
■which  was  only  20  feet  square,  and 
poorly  ventilated,  never  having  been 
intended  to  hold  more  than  two  or 
three  prisoners  at  a  time.  In  the 
morning,  of  the  146  who  were  impris- 
oned, only  23  were  found  to  have 
survived  the  excruciating  agony  of 
pressure,  heat,  thirst,  and  want  of 
air.  In  the  "  Annual  Register  "  for 
1758,  is  a  narrative  of  the  sufferings 
of  those  imprisoned,  written  by  Mr. 
Holwell,  one  of  the  number.  The 
Black  Hole  is  now  used  as  a  ware- 
house. 

Black  Knight,  The.  See  Faineant, 
Le  Noir. 

Black  Man,  The.  A  common  desig- 
nation for  the  Devil  in  the  tin»s  of  the 
New  England  witchcraft.  It  is  a 
popular  belief  that  the  Devil  is  black. 
In  the  "  Golden  Legend  "  there  is  a 
story  representing  him  as  appearing 
in  the  guise  of  a  man  clad  in  black, 
of  great  height,  and  mounted  on  a 
superb  horse. 

These  wild  doctors  [the  Indian  medicine- 
men] were  supposed  to  draw  their  pharma- 
ceutic knowledge  from  no  srracious  source, 
the  Black  Man  liimself  bein;;?  the  principal 
professor  in  their  medical  school. 

Hawtfiome. 

Black  Monday,  (f^nq.  Hist.)  A 
memorable  Easter  Monday  in  1351, 
very  dark  and  misty.  A  great  deal 
of  hail  fell,  and  the  cold  was  so  ex- 
treme that  many  died  from  its  effects. 
The  name  afterward  came  to  be  ap- 
plied to  the  Monday  after  Easter  of 
each  year. 

My  nose  fell   a-bleeding  on  Black  Monday 
last.  Shak. 

Black  Prince,  The.  Edward,  Prince 
of  Wales,  the  son  of  Edward  III.  of 


England ;  —  so  called  from  the  color 

of  his  armor. 

To  portray  a  Roman  of  the  age  of  Camilli,4 
or  Curius  as  superior  to  national  antipathies, 
as  treating;  conqucicd  encniiis  with  tin-  deli- 
cacy of  the  Black  I'rince,  would  l)0  to  violate 
all  dramatic  proi>ricty.  Macuulay. 

Black  Hepublicans.     See  Repukli- 

CANS,  Hl.ACK. 

Black  Saturday.  A  name  given,  in 
Scotland,  to  the  4th  of  August,  1621. 
On  this  day,  the  Parliament  sitting 
at  Edinburgh  ratified  certain  articles 
introducing  Episcopalian  fashions  in- 
to the  church,  —  a  proceeding  highly 
repugnant  to  the  religious  feelings 
and  convictions  of  the  Scottish  peo- 
ple. A  violent  storm  which  occurred 
at  the  same  time,  and  was  accompa- 
nied by  thunder  and  lightning  and 
"heavy  darkness,"  was  thought  to 
be  a  manifest  token  of  the  displeas- 
ure of  Heaven. 

_  She  was  to  remind  a  neighbor  of  some  par- 
ticular which  she  was  to  recall  to  his  memory 
by  the  token,  that  Thome  Reid  and  he  had 
set  out  tdgetlier  to  go  to  the  battle  which  took 
place  on  the  Black  Saturday.       Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bla'dud.  A  legendary'  king  of  Eng- 
land, who  is  said  to  have  built  the 
city  of  Bath,  and  dedicated  the  me- 
dicinal springs  to  Minerva. 

Winifred  Jenkins  and  Tabitha  Bramble 
must  keep  Englishmen  on  the  grin  for  ages 
yet  to  come;  and  in  their  letters  and  the  story 
of  tlieir  loves  there  is  a  perpetual  fount  of 
sparkling  laughter  as  inexhaustible  as  Bla- 
dud's  well.  Thackeray. 

Blanche'fleuT.  [It.  Blancafiore.]  A 
lady  beloved  by  Flores.  Their  ad- 
ventures make  the  principal  subject 
of  Boccaccio's  "  Philopoco,"  but  they 
had  been  famous  for  a  long  time 
previously,  as  Boccaccio  himself  in- 
forms us.  They  are  mentioned  as 
illustrious  lovers  by  Matfres  Eymen- 
gau  de  Bezers,  a  Languedocian  poet, 
in  his  "  Breviari  d'  Amor,"  dated  in 
the  year  1288.  Boccaccio  repeated 
in  the  "  Decameron  "  (Day  10,  novel 
5)  the  story  of  Flores  and  Blanche- 
fleur,  but  changed  the  names  of  the 
lovers  to  Ansaldo  and  Dianora. 
Chaucer  took  it  as  the  foundation  of 
the  Frankelein's  tale  in  the  "  Can- 
terbury Tales,"  though  he  professes 
to  have  derived  it  from  "  a  British 
lay."  Boccaccio's  novel  is  unques- 
tionably the  origin  of  the  episode  of 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


BLA 


48 


BLO 


Iroldo,  Prasildo,  and  Tisbina,  in 
Bojardo's  "  Orlando  Innaniorato." 
Tliert;  is  also  an  old  ljijj,lisli  romance 
entitled  "  Mores  and  lilanthelleur," 
said  to  have  been  ori^nnally  written 
in  French.     See  I'nA.sii.ut). 

Tlu'  I  hroiiiclc's  of  C'liaileinagne, 
Of  Merlin  uiid  tlie  Mort  d'Arthure, 
Aliiiglutl  together  in  his  brain 
With  tales  of  Flores  and  Llanchefleur. 

Lonyj'ellow. 

Bias,  Gil.     See  Gil  Blas. 

Blatant  Beast,  The.  A  bellowing 
monster,  in  Si)enser'.s"  Faer^M^lueen," 
tj'picai  of  slander  or  cahinmy;  or  it 
is  an  impersonation  of  what  we  now 
call  "  Vox  i'opuli,"  or  the  Voice  of 
the  People. 

Ble-fus'cu.  The  name  of  an  island 
mentioned  in  the  imaginary  "  Trav- 
els "  of  Lenuiel  (ialliver,  written  by 
Swift.  It  is  described  as  being  "  sit- 
uated to  the  north-east  side  of  Lilli- 
put,  from  whence  it  is  parted  only  by 
a  channel  of  eight  hundred  yards 
wide,"  and  as  being  ruled  over  by  an 
emperor.  The  inhabitants,  like  the 
Lilliputians,  were  all  pygmies. 

«^  '^  Rlefuscu  is  France,  and  the  in- 
gratitiide  of  the  Lillijiutian  court,  which 
forces  Gulliver  to  take  shelter  there 
rather  than  have  his  eyes  put  out,  is  an 
indirect  reproach  upon  that  of  Kntrlaud, 
and  a  vindication  of  the  flight  of  Oniioud 
and  Bolingbroke  to  Paris."     Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bli'fil.  A  noted  character  who  figures 
in  Fielding's  novel  entitled  "  The 
History  of  Tom  Jones,  a  Foundling." 

Blim'ber,  Miss  Cornelia.  A  char- 
acter in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  Dombey 
and  Son;"  a  daughter  of  Dr.  Blim- 
ber,  the  head  of  a  tirst-class  educa- 
tional establishment  conducted  on 
the  forcing  or  cramming  principle. 
She  is  a  very  learned,  grave,  and 
precise  young  lady,  Avith  "  no  light 
nonsense  about  her,"  who  has  liecome 
"  dry  and  sandy  with  working  in  the 
graves  of  deceased  languages." 

It  costs  her  nothin<;  to  disown  the  slight- 
est acquaintance  with  the  dead  lan{;u:i;:cs, 
or  science,  or  any  thin};  that  calls  for  abstract 
thonfrht.  In  the  opinion  of  those  whose  ap- 
proval she  most  cares  for,  she  might  as  well 
assume  J/is.«  /lliinber's  spectacles  as  shine  in 
any  one  of  them. 

Esmysfrom  the  Scitwclai/  Revieio. 

Blind  Harry.  A  name  commonly 
given  to  Henry  the  Minstrel,  a  Avan- 


dering  Scottish  poet  of  the  fifteenth 
century,  of  whom  nothing  else  is 
known  except  that  he  was  blind  from 
infancy,  and  comjtosed  a  romantic 
poem  entitled  "  'I'he  Life  of  that  No- 
ble ('hani])ion  of  Scotland,  Sir  Wil- 
liam Wallace,  Knight,"  which  has 
been  handed  down  to  the  present 
time. 

Blind  Preacher.  A  popular  sobri- 
quet given  to  William  Henry  Mil- 
burn  (b.  1823),  a  blind  Anierican 
clergyman  and  lecturer,  noted  for 
his  ability  and  eloquence. 

Blind  Traveler.  A  name  given  to 
James  Holman  (d.  1857),  a  lieutenant 
in  the  English  navy,  and  author  of 
various  books  of  travels.  In  1812, 
a  disease  contracted  in  the  discharge 
of  his  duty  destroyed  his  eyesight. 

Bloody  Assizes.  A  common  desig- 
nation of  the  horrid  judicial  massacie 
perpetrated,  in  1685,  by  George  Jetf- 
reys.  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  while  on  a  circuit  through  tha 
Avestern  counties  of  luigland.  About 
three  hundred  persons  were  executed 
after  short  trials;  very  many  were 
whipped,  imprisoned,  and  fined;  and 
nearly  one  thousand  were  sent  ai 
slaves  to  the  American  plantations. 

Bloody  Bill.  A  name  given  to  tha 
statute  of  the  "Articles"  (31  Henry 
VIII. ,  c.  14),  by  Avliich  hanging  or 
burning  was  denounced  against  all 
Avho  should  deny  the  doctrine  of 
trail  substantiation. 

Bloody-bones.  The  name  of  a  hob- 
goblin fiend,  formeilv  much  feared 
by  children.  The  "  Wyll  of  the  Dev- 
yll  "  is  said  to  be  "  written  by  our 
faithful  secretarA'es  hobgoblin,  raw- 
bed,  and  bloLxhjhnne^  in  the  spiteful 
audience  of  all  the  court  of  hell." 

ISIade  children  with  your  tones  to  run  for't 
As  bad  as  Bloody-bones  or  Lunsford. 

HudibroB, 

Bloody  Butcher.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland,  second 
son  of  George  II.,  on  account  of  his 
barbarities  in  the  suppression  of  the 
rebellion  excited  by  Charles  Edward 
Stuart,  the  Younger  Pretender. 

Bloody  Mary.  A  name  commonly 
given  to  Mary,  a   Roman  Catholic 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanationi, 


BLO 


49 


BLU 


queen  of  England,  whose  reign  is  , 
distinguished  lor  tlic  sanguinary 
persecutions  of  the  adherents  of  tlie 
Cliurcii  of  England,  no  fewer  tlian 
two  IuuuUhhI  i)ersoiis  liaving  bee-n 
burnt  at  tiie  stake  witiiin  tiie  sjjace 
of  four  years,  for  tiieir  uttaelinient 
to  the  reformed  doctrines. 
Blows 'i>-lin'da.  A  country  girl  in 
(iay's'  pastoral  poem,  "  The  Shei)- 
herd's  Weelc,"  whicii  depicts  rural 
life  in  its  character  of  poverty  and 
rudeness,  rather  than  as  clothed  in 
tlie  colors  of  romance. 

Wc,  fair,  fine  ladies,  who  park  ont  our  lives 
From  (n)iuinon  sheep-paths,  cannot  help  the 

crows 
From  fls'in;^  over;  we  're  as  natural  still 
As  Blowsaliiuia.  Mrs.  E.  Ji.  Browning. 

Blue-beard.  [Fr.  La  Bnrbe  Bleue.} 
The  hero  of  a  well-known  story  of 
the  same  name,  originally  written  in 
French  by  Charles  Perrault.  He  is 
represented  as  having  a  blue  beard, 
from  which  he  gets  his  designation, 
and  as  marrying  a  beautiful  young 
Avoman,  who  has  all  the  keys  of  a 
magniticent  castle  intrusted  to  her, 
with  injunctions  not  to  open  a  certain 
apartment.  She  gratities  her  curios- 
ity during  the  absence  of  her  lord, 
and  is  horrilied  to  tind  the  remains 
of  his  former  wives,  the  victims  of 
his  boundless  lust  and  cruelty.  Her 
disobedience  is  discovered  by  means 
of  an  indelible  stain  produced  on 
the  key  which  opened  the  door  of  the 
interdicted  room,  and  she  is  told  to 
prepare  for  death,  but  obtains  the 
favor  of  a  little  delay,  and  is  happily 
rescued  by  the  timely  arrival  of 
friends,  who  instantly  dispatch  her 
brutal  husband. 

j8®^  It  is  said  that  the  original  Blue- 
beard wa'^  Giles  de  Laval,  Lord  of  Ilaiz, 
who  was  maile  Marshal  of  France  in  1429. 
He  was  distinguished  for  his  military 
genius  and  intrepidity,  and  was  possessed 
of  princely  revenues,  hut  rendered  him- 
self infamous  bv  the  murder  of  his  wives, 
and  his  extraordinary  impiety  and  de- 
baucheries. Mezeray  saj's  that  he  en- 
couraged and  maintained  sorcerers  to 
discover  hidden  treasures,  and  corrupted 
young  persons  of  both  sexes  that  he 
might  attach  them  to  him,  and  after- 
ward killed  them  for  the  sake  of  their 
blood  for  his  charms  and  incantations. 


At  length,  for  some  state  crime  against 
tlie  Duke  of  Brittany,  he  was  sentenced 
to  be  burned  alive  in  a  lield  at  Nanti-s,  ia 
1440.  llolinshed  notices  another  Blue- 
beard, in  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.,  anno 
1450.  8peaking  of  the  conunittal  of  tlie 
Duke  of  Sulfolk  to  the  Tower,  lie  says, 
'•  This  doing  so  much  displeased  tlie  peo- 
ple, that,  if  politic  provision  had  not 
been  made,  great  mischief  had  imme- 
diately ensued.  For  the  commons,  in 
sundry  places  of  the  realm,  assembled 
together  in  great  companies,  and  chose 
to  them  a  captain,  whom  they  called 
Blue-beard  ;  but  ere  they  had  attempted 
any  enterprise  their  leaders  were  ap- 
prehended, and  so  the  matter  pacified 
without  any  hurt  committed."'  Blue- 
beard is  also  the  name  by  which  King 
Henry  VIII.  lives  in  the  popular  super- 
stitions of  England.  The  German  poet 
Tieck,  in  his  ''  Fhautasus,"  has  a  tragedy 
which  is  grounded  upon  the  common 
nursery  tale.  Duulop  notices  the  strik- 
ing resemblance  between  the  story  of 
Blue-beard  and  that  of  the  third  calen- 
dar in  the  ''  Arabian  Nights'  Entertain* 
ments." 

A  dark  tragedy  of  Sophie's  this;  the  Blitei 
heard  chamber  of  her  mind,  into  which  no 
eye  but  her  own  must  ever  look.  Carlyle. 

Blue-ooat  School.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  to  Christ's  Hos|)ital,  Lon- 
don, —  a  charitable  institution  for  the 
education  of  orphans  and  foundlings, 
—  on  account  of  the  blue  coats  or 
go-wiis  worn  by  the  boys.  Their  cos- 
tume has  continued  unchanged  ever 
since  the  foundation  of  the  school  in 
the  reign  of  Edward  VI. 

Blue  Hen.  A  cant  or  popular  name 
for  the  State  of  Delaware.  This  so- 
briquet is  said  to  have  had  its  ori- 
gin in  a  certain  Captain  Caldwell's 
fondness  for  the  amusement  of  cock- 
lighting.  Caldwell  was  for  a  time 
an  otlicer  of  the  First  Delaware  Reg- 
iment in  the  war  of  the  Revolution, 
and  was  greatly  distinguished  for  his 
daring  and  undaunted  spirit.  He 
was  exceeding'ly  popular  in  the  regi- 
ment, and  its  high  state  of  discipline 
was  generally  conceded  to  ha  due  to 
his  exertions;  so  that  when  officers 
Avere  sent  on  recriu'ting  service  to  en- 
list new  men  in  order  to  hll  vacancies 
caused  by  death  or  otherwise,  it  was 
a  saying,  that  they  had  gone  liome 
for  more  of  Caldwell's  game-cocks; 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numoers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 

4 


BLU 


50 


BOB 


but,  as  Caldwell  insisted  that  no  cook  i 
could  be  truly  j^aine  unless  the  mother 
was  a  blue  hen,  the  expression  "  Blue 
Hen's  ehickens"  was  ?ub»ticuted  for 
*'  ^anie-c-oeks." 
iJtldiravt  atiiU  Jou^iial,  Juiy,  1860. 

Plue  Laws.  A  nickname  ^iven  to 
the  quaint  and  severe  regulations  of 
the  early  government  ot  New  Haven 
Plantation,  when  the  public  authori- 
ties kept  a  sharp  watch  over  the  de- 
portment of  tiie  people  of  the  colony, 
and  punished  all  breaches  of  good 
manners  and  good  morals,  often  with 
)udiirous  formality.  Some  account 
of  these  laws  is  given  in  a  small  work 
published  in  1825  (Hartford,  bv  Silas 
Andrus),  entitled  "  The  Code  oY  1G5U, 
being  a  Compilation  of  the  earliest 
Laws  and  Orders  of  the  General 
Court  of  Connecticut,"  &€.  The 
ancient  records  of  the  Xew  Haven 
colony  bear  witness  to  the  stern  and 
fcomber  religious  spirit  common  to  all 
the  lirst  settlers.  The  cliapter  of 
"  Capitall  Lawes,"  in  the  code  of 
1650.  is  almost  verbally  copied  from 
the  Mosaic  law. 

^f^  "  After  the  restoration  of  Charles 
II.,  the  Puritans  became  the  subject  of 
everj'  kind  of  reproach  and  contumely. 
The  epithet  blue  was  applied  to  any  one 
who  looked  %rith  disapprobation  upon 
the  licentiousness  of  the  time.  The 
Presbyterians,  under  which  name  all 
dissenters  were  often  included,  were  more 
particularly  designated  by  this  term. 
Thus  Butler :  — 

'  Frir  his  religion,  it  was  fit 
To  match  his  learning  and  his  wit,  — 
'T  was  Presbyterian  true  bliit.'' 

Hudtbras. 

That  this  epithet  of  derision  should  find 
its  way  to  the  colonies  was  a  matter  of 
course.  It  was  here  applied  not  only  to 
persons,  but  to  customs,  institutions, 
and  laws  of  the  Puritans,  by  tho.se  who 
wished  to  render  the  prevailing  system 
ridiculous.  Ilence,  probably,  a  belief 
with  some  that  a  distinct  sjstem  of  laws, 
known  as  the  '  blue  laws,'  must  have 
somewhere  a  local  habitation." 

Kinssley. 

Slue-Nose.  A  nickname  popularly 
given  to  an  inhabitant  of  Xova  Sco- 
tia or  New  Brunswick.  The  appel- 
lation is  supposed  to  have  been  orig- 
inally applied  from  the  etleet  upon 
the  more  prominent  parts  of  the  tace 


i>f  the  raw  easterly  \dnds  and  long- 
continued  fogs  which  prevail  in  these 
provinces.  Others  say  that  it  was 
tirst  applied  to  a  particular  kind  of 
potatoes  wiiich  were  extensively  j)ro- 
duced  by  tiu'  inhaiiitants,  and  that 
it  was  afterward  tran.^terretl  to  the 
iidiabitauLs  themselves.  Others  still 
assert  that  its  use  is  accounted  tor  by 
the  custom  among  certain  tribes  of 
the  aborigines  ot  ijainting  the  nose 
blue  as  a  punishment  lor  a  crima 
against  chastity. 

Blueskin.  A  nickname  given  to 
Joseph  Blake,  an  English  burglar, 
on  account  of  his  dark  complexion. 
Ho  was  executed  Nov.  11,  172-J. 

Blue-Skins.  A  nickname  applied  to 
the  Presbyterians,  from  thefr  aUegcd 
grave  deportment. 

Blue  string,  Eobin.  See  Robin  Blue- 
string. 

BluJGf,  Captain  NoU.  A  swaggering 
coward  in  Congreve's  comedy  of 
"  The  Old  Bachelor." 

Those  ancients,  as  XoTl  Bluff  m\g\\t  say. 
Were  pretty  fellows  in  their  dav. 

'Sir  W.  Scott. 

Bluff  City.  A  descriptive  name  pop- 
ularly given  to  the  city  of  Hannibal, 

Missouri. 

Bluff  Hal,  or  Harry.  The  sobriquet 
by  which  King  Henri'  YIII.  of  Eng- 
land is  commonly  known.  [Called 
also  Burly  King  Harry.'] 

Ere  yet  in  scorn  of  Peter's  pence. 
And  nuniberert  liead  and  shrift. 

Bluff  Ha i-rij  broke  into  the  spence. 
And  turned  the  cowls  adrift 

Tennu»on. 

Bo'S-ner'ges.  [Gr.  Boai-epye'?,  from 
Heb.  bene-refjes,  the  Aramaic  pro- 
nunciation of  which  was  l>onne-ref/es.] 
A  name  signifying  "  sons  of  thun- 
der," given  by  our  Lord  i^fa}•k  iii. 
17)  to  the  two  sons  of  Zebedee,  James 
and  John.  Probably  the  name  liad 
respect  to  the  fiery  zeal  of  the  broth- 
ers, signs  of  which  may  be  seen  in 
Luke  ix.  54,  Mark  ix.  38. 

Boar  of  Ardennes,  "Wild.  See  Wild 

Bo.VK    OF    Ain>ENNES. 

Boast  of  England.    See  Tom-.v-lin. 

Bob'S-dil,  Captain.  A  beggarly  and 
cowardly  adventurer,  in  Ben  Jonson's 
comedy,   '*  E\'ery   ^Man    in   his   Hu- 


lO"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accoiupiuiying  Explanation 


BOB 


51 


BOM 


mor,"  who  passes  himself  off  with 
young  and  simple  people  ibr  a  valiant 
soldier.  He  says  (a.  iv.,  so.  7):  "I 
would  select  nineteen  more  to  myself; 
.  .  .  gentlemen  they  should  be,  of  <i()()d 
spirit,  strong  and  ahle  constitution. 
.  .  .  We  twenty  would  come  into  the 
field  the  tenth  of  March,  or  there- 
abouts, and  we  would  challenge 
twenty  of  the  enemy :  they  could  not 
in  their  honor  refuse  us.  Well,  we 
would  kill  them:  challenge  twenty 
more;  kill  them:  twenty  more;  kill 
them :  twenty  more ;  kill  them  too. 
And  thus  we  would  kill  every  man 
his  twenty  a  day,  —  that  's  twenty 
score:  twenty  score,  that  's  two  hun- 
dred; two  hundred  a  day,  five  days, 
a  thousand:  forty  thousand  —  lorty 
times  five  —  five  times  forty  —  two 
hundred  days  kills  them  all  up  by 
computation." 

;6®="  "  Bobadil,  with  his  big  words  and 
his  little  heart,  with  his  sword  and  his 
oath,  —  "•  By  the  foot  of  Pharaoh  I '  —  is  a 
braggart  of  the  first  water.  He  is,  upon 
the  whole,  the  best  invention  of  tlie  au- 
thor, and  is  wortUy  to  march  in  the  SJiuie 
regiment  with  Bessus  and  Pistol,  and 
ParoUtss  and  the  Copper  Captain." 

JS.  W.  Procter. 

The  present  author,  like  Jlobadil,  had 
taught  his  trick  offence  to  a  hundred  gentle- 
men,—  and  ladies,  — who  could  fence  very 
nearly  or  quite  as  well  as  himself. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

The  whole  province  was  once  thrown  in 
amaze  bj'  the  return  of  one  of  his  campaigns, 
wherein  it  was  stated,  tliat,  though,  like  Cn)i- 
tain  Bitharlil,  he  had  only  twenty  men  to  back 
him,  yet  in  the  short  space  of  six  months  he 
had  conquered  and  utterly  annihilated  sixty 
oxen,  ninety  hogs,  one  hundred  shtep,  ten 
thousand  cabbages,  one  thousand  bushels  of 
potatoes,  one  hundred  and  fifty  kilderkins  of 
small  beer,  two  thousand  seven  hundred  and 
thirty-five  pipes,  seventy-eight  pounds  of 
Bugar-plums,  and  forty  bars  of  iron,  besides 
sundry  small  meats,  g«ine,  poultry,  and  gar- 
den-stuff;— an  achievement  uiiparalleled 
since  the  days  of  Pantagruel  and  his  all-de- 
vouring arniy.  W.  Irvhig. 

Royalism  totally  abandons  that  Bobnflitirm 
method  of  contest.  Carlyle. 

Bobbies.      See  Peelers, 

Bceuf,    Front    de.    Sir    Eeginald 

(fro"  du  buf  43).  [Fr.  ox-fnce,  ox- 
head.]  A  gig'intic  and  ferocious  per- 
sonage wlio  ficrures  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  "  Ivanhoe  "  as  a  fol- 
lower of  Prince  John. 
Bogy.    See  Old  Bogy. 


Bo-he'mi-a.  A  recent  tant  designa- 
tion of  those  parts  of  London  inhab- 
ited by  gay  young  fellows  Avho  hang 
loosely  "  about  town,"  leading  a  sort 
of  noniadic  life,  like  the  gypsies  (Fv. 
Buhcjiuciis),  and  living  on  their  wits, 
—  as  journalists,  politicians,  artists, 
dancers,  and  the  like. 

JS^^  In  France,  La  Boh&me  is  used  of 
Paris  in  a  similar  way. 

Bohemian  Tartar.  Perhaps  a  gypsy; 
or  a  mere  wild  a[»pellation  designed 
to  ridicule  the  appearance  of  Simple 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor,"  a.  iv.,  sc.  5. 

B5'hort,  Sir,  or  King.  A  knight  of 
the  Round  Table,  celebrated  in  the 
old  romances  of  chivalry.  He  was 
the  brother  of  King  Ban,  and  uncle 
to  Lancelot  du  Lac.  [Written  also 
Bors,   Bort.] 

Bois-Guilbert,  Brian  de  (bre^Si'du 
bwo'gePber').  A  brave  but  cruel 
and  voluptuous  Preceptor  of  the 
Knights  Temjjlars,  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  "  Ivanhoe." 

The  most  resolute  courage  will  sometimes 
quail  in  a  bad  cause,  and  even  die  in  its  armor, 
like  Bois-Guilbert.  Atlantic  Moiithlu. 

Bom'ba.  A  sobriquet  given  to  Ferdi- 
nand il.  (1830-185'J),  late  king  of  the 
Two  Sicilies. 

^e®^  "  Bomba  is  the  name  of  children's 
play  in  Italy,  a  kind  of  prisoner's-base, 
or  what  used  formerly  to  be  called,  in 
England,  '  King  by  your  leave  ; '  and 
there  was  probably  an  allusion  to  this 
pastime  in  tlie  nickname;  especially  as 
his  majesty  was  fond  of  playing  the  king, 
and  iiad  a  predilection  for  childish 
amusements  besides,  and  for  playing  at 
soldiers.  But  the  name,  whatever  its 
first  cause,  or  its  collective  significance, 
is  understood  to  have  derived  its  greatest 
weight  from  a  charge  made  against  his 
majesty  of  having  called  upon  his  soldiers 
to  '  bombard  '  his  people  during  one  of 
their  insurrections.  *■  Bombard  'em  ! 
bombard  'em  I '  he  is  said  to  have  cried 
out ;  that  is  to  say,  '  Sweep  them  away,  — 
cannonade  "em  I '  His  apologist,  Mr. 
Macfarlane.  not  onlj-  denies  the  charge, 
but  says  his  cry  was  the  very  i-tiverse  ;  to 
wit.  '•  Spjire  my  misguided  people  I  Malie 
prisoners  ;  do  not  kill ;  make  prisoners  I  ' 
.  .  .  The  book  entitled  '  Naples  and  King 
Ferdinand  '  repeats  the  charge,  however, 
in  the  strongest  manner.  It  says  that  he 
kept  crying  out, '  Down  with  them  .'  down 


aad  for  the  Semarke  and  Rules  to  which  the  Bumbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxu. 


BOM 


52 


BON^ 


with  them  1  '  arldinK.  in  a  note,  what  was 
stated  to  be  the  particular  expression, 
'  IJoiiibardare  ;'  and  hence,  says  tlie  au- 
thor. •  arose  his  vvell-knowa  sobrit^uet  of 
Bumba.^''  L^igh  Hunt. 

m^  ■'  The  name  Bomba  is  often  mis- 
inteiitreted  as  having  some  allusion  to 
l)onibirdnients.  It  is  not  ^o.  In  Italy, 
when  you  tell  a  man  a  thing  which  he 
knows  to  be  false,  or  when  he  wishes  to 
convey  to  you  the  ideaof  the  utter  worth- 
lessuess  of  any  thing  or  person,  he  puffs 
out  his  cheek,  like  a  bagpiper's  in  full 
blow,  smites  it  with  his  forefiiig«!r,  and 
allows  the  pent  breath  to  explode,  with 
the  exclamatio  1,  '  ISomb-a.'  1  hive  wit- 
nessed the  gesture,  and  heard  the  sound. 
Hence,  after  1S4*J.  when  regal  oaths  in 
the  name  of  the  Most  Holy  Trinity  were 
found  to  be  as  worthless  as  a  beggir's  in 
the  name  of  Bacchus  or  the  Madonna, 
when  Ferdinand  was  perceived  to  he  a 
worthless  liar,  his  qui.'k-witted  people 
whispered  his  name.  He  wis  called  King 
Bomba,  King  Puff  cheek.  King  Linr,  King 
Knave.  The  name  and  his  chara-terwere 
then  so  much  in  harmony  that  it  spread 
widely  ;  and  they  have  been  so  much  in 
harino.iy  ever  since,  that  he  has  retained 
it  lill  now.  and  will  retain  it,  I  suppose, 
till  he  is  bundled  into  his  unhonored 
grave."  Dublin  Evening  Gazette. 

After  Palermo's  fatal  sie^e, 
Across  the  western  seas  lie  fled 
III  fcood  King  Boniba's  happy  rei<rn. 

Lonfj/ellow. 

Bom-bas'tes  Fia-ri-6'so.  The  hero 
and  title  of  a  burlesque  tragic  opera 
by  Thomas  Barnes  Rhodes,  Avhich 
•was  intended  to  ridicule  the  bombast 
of  modern  tragedies. 

Falling  on  one  knee,  [he]  put  both  hands  on 
his  heart,  and  rolled  up  his  eyes  much  after 
the  manner  of  Boiiibastes  Funnao  making 
love  to  Distaffiiia.  Epcs  Sargent. 

Bo'na  De'a.  [Lat.,  the  good  god- 
dess.] {^I^Jih.)  A  Roman  divinity, 
otherwise  called  Fauna,  or  Fatua, 
and  dijscribvid  as  the  sister,  Avife,  or 
daughter  of  Faunns.  Her  -worship 
was  so  exclusively  confined  to  wom- 
en, that  men  Avere  not  even  allowed 
to  know  her  name. 

Bo-nas'SUS.      [Gr.   Boi-aa-o)?,   Bovaaaoc^ 

a.  ■wild  ox.]  An  imaginaiy  wild 
beast,  with  which  the  "  Ettrick  Shep- 
herd "  (.lames  Hogg),  in  the  "  Noctes 
Aml>rosian:e  "  (No.  XLVHI.  April, 
1830),  is  represented  as  having  had  a 
most  remarkable  adventure.  A  huge 
animal  of  the  genus  Blsiy/i  —  Blsun 


bonasauR  —  had  been  exhibited  in 
Londcm  and  other  parts  of  Great 
Britain  a  few  years  betbre. 

I  must  have  been  the  L'ona.viix  liirnself  to 
have  mistaken  myself  lor  a  {;euius. 

Sir  U'.Scoft. 

Bon  Chevalier,  sans  Peur  et  sans 
Beproche,  Le  (hi  bo"  shva^le'^S' 
so"  per  a  SO"  ru-prosh').  See  Good 
Knight,  &c. 

Bo'ney.  A  corruption  or  diminutive 
of  Bonaparte,  often  u.sed  b}'  English 
writers  and  speakers  m  the  tirst  part 
of  the  present  century. 

No  monks  can  be  had  now  fbr  love  or  for 

money, 
(All  owing,  papa  says,  to  that  infidel  Boney). 

Moure. 

Bon  Gaul'ti-er.  A  pseudonym  adopted 
by  Professor  William  Fdmonstoune 
Xytoun  and  Theodore  Martin,  under 
which  they  published  a  popuhir  book 
of  ballads,  and  contributed  to  a  num- 
ber of  periodicals, 

Bonhomme,  Jacques  (zhak  bo'- 
nom').  [Fr.,  Jack  or  James  Good- 
man]. A  derisive  name  given  by 
the  French  barons  of  the  fourteenth 
century  to  the  peasants  of  the  coun- 
try The  msurrection  known  as  the 
Jncquerie  —  which  derived  its  name 
from  this  epithet  —  was  a  terrible  up- 
rising of  this  class  against  the  nobles, 
in  i;J58. 

Jaa/ups  Bonhomme  had  a  longer  memory 
than  his  representative  on  this  side  of  the 
water  [England];  and  while  the  descendants 
of  Wat  Tyler's  followers  were  comfortable 
church-and-king  men,  when  the  frreat  trial 
came,  in  1793,  the  men  of  the  Jacquerie  were 
boilinjT  with  revenfrc  for  centuries  of  wrong, 
and  poured  forth  the  concentrott'd  wrath  of 
generations  on  clergy,  noble,  and  crown. 

Bev.  John  fVhite. 

Bon'i-face.  The  name  of  a  landlord 
in  Farquhar's  comedy,  "  The  Beaux' 
JStratagein,"  —  one  of  the  best  rep- 
resentatives of  the  English  innkeeper 
in  tlie  language;  hence,  a  landlord 
in  general. 

"Oh!  I  beg  your  pardon,"  replied  the 
Yankee  Boniface;  "I  meant  no  offense." 

Pntndiii'x  3fag. 

Bono  Johnny.  The  sobriquet  by 
which,  in  the  East,  the  English  are 
commonly  designated. 

Bontemps,  Koger  (m'y.hti'  l)nn/t6n', 
()-2).  A  ])()]iiilar  personification,  in 
France,  of  a  state  of  leisure,  and  free- 


tty  For  the  "Key  to   the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


BOO 


53 


BOR 


dom     from    care.     The    equivalGnt, 

among  the  Freiicli  peasantry,  iur  the 

Knglish  proverb,  "  There  's  a  good 

time  coining,"  is  ''  Koger  Bontenips." 

'I'his  character  i.s  the  subject  of  one 

of  Beranger's  most  celebrated  songs, 

written  in  181-4:  — 

To  show  our  liypochondriacs, 
In  days  the  niu.-t  foiloi ii, 
A  put'tern  set  before  their  eyes, 
Jioger  Bontemjix  was  born. 
To  live  ob!5Curely  at  his  will. 
To  keep  alooflroiii  strife,  — 
liurrali  fbr  fat  Roinr  Bontemps ! 
This  is  his  rule  of  life. 

Ye  envious  poor  ;  j'e  rich  who  deem 
"Wealth  still  your  thoughts  deserving  ; 
Ye  who  in  search  of  pleasant  tracks 
Yet  find  vour  cap  is  swerving; 
Ye  who  tlie  titles  that  ye  boast 
May  lose  by  some  disaster, — 
Uurrah  for  fat  Rof/er  BontcDips .' 
Go,  take  hiui  for  your  master. 

Btranger,  Trans. 

Booby,  Lady.  A  female  character 
of  frail  morals,  in  Fielding's  novel 
of '' .Joseph  Andrews,"  Avho  is  unable 
to  conquer  the  virtue  of  her  footman. 
She  was  designed  as  a  caricature  of 
Richardson's  "  Pamela,"  and  is  rep- 
resented as  a  vulgar  upstart,  whom 
the  parson  is  compelled  to  reprove 
for  laughing  in  church. 

Bo-o'tes.  [Gr.  Bouirr;?,  the  ox-driver.] 
{Gv.  cj"-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Ceres, 
and  the  inventor  of  the  pknv.  He 
was  translated  to  heaven,  and  made 
a  constellation.  According  to  another 
account,  he  was  a  son  of  Lycaon  and 
Callisto,  and  was  slain  by  his  father, 
who  set  him  before  Jupiter  for  a  re- 
past, to  try  the  omniscience  of  the 
god.  Jupiter  restored  him  to  life, 
and  placed  him  among  the  stars. 

Booth,  The  husband  of  Amelia,  in 
Fielding's  novel  of  that  name.  His 
frailties  are  said  to  have  shadowed 
forth  some  of  the  author's  own  back- 
slidings  and  experiences. 

Bo-ra'chi-o.  A  follower  of  John 
(bastard  brother  of  Don  Pedro, 
Prince  of  Arragon),  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Much  Ado   about  Nothing." 

Borak,  Al.     See  Al,  Borak. 

Border,  The.  In  histor\'  and  in  popu- 
lar phraseology,  the  cnmninn  frontier 
of  England  and  Iscotland,  which,  imtil 
comparatively  modern  times,  shitted 


to  t'.ie  north  or  lo  tlic  .■south,  accord- 
ing '.o  tho  surging  tide  of  war  or  di- 
plomacy. From  the  eleventh  century 
to  about  the  beginning  of  the  eight- 
eenth century,  ruthless  wars  between 
tiie  two  countries,  and  lends  and 
forays  of  clans  and  lamilies,  caused 
almost  constant  disturbance  on  the 
border.  Strenuous  elforts  were  made 
during  the  reigns  of  Elizabeth  anc^. 
James  VI.  to  preserve  peace;  but  it 
was  not  until  the  legislative  union  of 
17U7  took  place,  that  the  long  course 
of  misrule  was  tinally  brought  to  a 
close. 

Border  Minstrel.  A  title  often  given 
to  Sir  Walter  Scott,  who  traced  his 
descent  from  the  great  border  family 
now  represeiited  by  the  dukes  of 
Buccleuch ;  resided  at  Abbotsfbrd  on 
the  Tweed ;  edited,  in  early  lite,  a  col- 
lection of  old  ballads  under  the  title 
of  "  The  Minstrelsy  of  the  Scottish 
Border;"  and  afterward  wrote  "  The 
Lay  of  the  Last  ]\Iinstrel,"  and  other 
original  poems  upon  border  subjects. 

When  last  alons  its  banks  I  wandered, 
Throuf^h  groves  that  had  begun  to  shed 

Their  golden  leaves  upon  the  pathways. 
My  steps  the  Tiordcr  Minstrel  led. 

Wordswortli,  Yarrow  Eevixited. 

Border  States.  Previous  to  the 
Rebellion,  a  common  designation  of 
those  Slave  States,  in  the  American 
Union,  Avhich  bordered  upon  the  line 
of  the  Free  States;  namely,  Delaware, 
Maryland,  Virginia,  Kentucky,  and 
Missouri.  "With  the  abolition  of  slav- 
ery throughout  the  United  States, 
the  name  will  soon  pass  out  of  cur- 
rent use. 

Border-thief  School.  A  name  for- 
merly given,  to  some  extent,  to  Sir 
Walter  Scott  and  his  poetical  imita- 
tors, who  celebrated  the  adventures 
of  various  predatory  chiefs  of  the 
Scottish  border. 

TVith  your  Lake  Schools,  and  Border-thief 
Sr/iool%  and  Cockney  and  Satanic  Schools, 
tliere  has  been  enough  to  do.  Carlyle. 

Bo're-as  (9).  [Gr.  Bopea?.]  (Gr.  .f- 
Jiom.  Myth.)  The  north  wind,  a  pon 
of  Astrams  and  Aurora.  He  is  fabled 
to  have  carried  off  Orithvia,  the 
daughter  of  Ercchthous,  and  by  her 
to  have  had  Zetes  and  Calais,  winged 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BOR 


54 


BOW 


vrarriors,  who  accompanied  the  Ar- 
gonautic  exjx'dition. 
Bors,  ()/•  Bort,  King.      See  Boiiort, 

oIU. 

Boston  Bard.  A  pseudonym  as- 
sumed by  Robert  8.  ColHn  (1797- 
1827),  an  American  versilier  who  lived 
for  some  years  in  Boston,  Massachu- 
setts. 

Boston  Massacre.  {Amer.  Hist.) 
A  name  popularly  given  to  a  disturb- 
ance whic;h  occurred  m  the  streets  of 
Boston  on  the  evening  of  March  5, 
1770,  when  a  sergeant's  guard  be- 
longing to  the  British  garrison  fired 
upon  a  crowd  of  people  who  were 
surrounding  them  and  pelting  them 
with  snow-balls,  and  killed  three 
men,  besides  wounding  several  oth- 
ers. The  leader  of  the  towns-people 
was  a  black  man  named  Crispus  At- 
tucks.  The  affair  is  of  historical  im- 
portance, as  it  prepared  the  minds  of 
men  for  the  revolutionaiy  struggle 
which  followed. 

Boston  Tea-party.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  to  the  famous  assemblage 
of  citizens  in  Boston,  Dec.  16,  1773, 
who  met  to  carry  out  the  non-impor- 
tation resolves  of  the  colony,  and 
who,  disguised  as  Indians,  went  on 
board  three  English  shi])s  which  had 
just  arrived  in  the  harbor,  and  de- 
stroyed several  hundred  chests  of 
tea.  The  British  jiarliament  retali- 
ated by  closing  the  port  of  Boston. 

Bottle,  Oracle  of  the  Holy.  See 
Holy  Bottle,  Ohaclp:  of  the. 

Bottle  Riot.  A  disturbance  which 
took  place  at  the  theater  in  Dublin, 
Dec.  14,  1822,  in  consequence  of  the 
unpopularity  of  tiie  Marquess  Welles- 
ley  (Richard  Colby,  the  younger). 
Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland;  so  called 
from  the  cnx'umstance  of  a  botvle 
being  thrown  mto  his  box.  [Called 
also  The  Battle  Conspiracy.] 

Bottom,  Nick.  An  Athenian  weaver, 
who  is  the  ])riiicipal  actor  in  the  in- 
terlude of''  Pyramus  and  Thisbe,"  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Midsummer-Night's 
Dream."  Obenm,  the  fairv  king, 
desiring  to  punish  Titania.  his  queen, 
commissioned  Puck  to  watch  her 
till  she  fell  asleep,  and  then  to  anoint 


her  eyelids  with  the  juice  of  a  plant 
called  love-in-idleness,  the  ctlect  of 
which,  when  she  awoke,  was  to  make 
her  dote  ii\}on  Bottom,  upon  whom 
Puck  had  hxed  an  ass's  head. 

j^i}'-  "  Hottoiii  ...  is  a  compound  of 
prutound  iguorauce  and  omnivorous  con- 
ceit; but  these  are  tempered  b}'  t^ood- 
nature.  decision  of  character,  and  some 
mother-wit  That  which  gives  him  hia 
individuahty  does  not  depend  upon  his 
want  of  education,  his  position,  or  his 
calling.  All  the  sciiools  of  Athena  could 
not  have  rea^^oned  it  out  of  him  ;  and  all 
the  gold  of  Croesus  would  have  made 
him  but  a  gilded  Bottom  after  all.  .  .  . 
His  descendants  have  not  unfrequently 
appeared  among  the  gifted  intellects  of 
the  world.  AVhen  Goldsmith,  jealous  of 
the  attention  which  a  dancing  monkey 
attracted  in  a  coffee-house,  said,  '  I  can 
do  that  as  well,'  and  was  about  to  at- 
tempt it,  he  was  but  playing  Bottom.'' 
R.  G.    IV/iite. 

Indeed,  the  caresses  which  this  partiality 
leads  him  [Milton]  to  bestow  on  "  Sad  Elec- 
tia's  poet,"  sometimes  remind  lis  of  the  beau- 
tiful queen  of  fairj'-land  kissing  the  long 
tixTH  ot'Botfoiii.  Macnulay. 

Pitj-  p'^pr  Robinson  [Sir  Thomas  Robinson], 
O  English  reader,  if  you  can,  for  indignation 
at  the  business  he  is  in.  Saving  the  lil)ertie8 
of  Europe!  thinks  Robinson  confidently  : 
Founding  the  English  National  Debt,  an- 
swers Fact;  and  doing  Bottom  the  Wiarer, 
with  long  ears,  in  the  nnserablcst  Pickle- 
herring  tragedy  that  ever  was  1  Carlyle, 

Bountiful,  Lady.  See  Lady  Boun- 
tiful. 

Boustrapa  (boo'stra'pa').  A  sobri- 
quet given  to  the  Emperor  Napoleon 
III.,  in  allusion  to  his  unsuccessful 
attempts  at  a  ccnip  tVeti^t  at  iJowlogne 
(in  1840)  and  -S^?-rt.sbourg  (in  1836), 
and  his  successful  attempt  at  Paris 
(in  1851),  while  President  of  the 
French  Republic. 

Bower  of  Bliss.  1.  A  garden  belong- 
ing to  the  beautiful  enchantress  Ar- 
mida,  in  Tasso's  "  Jerusalem  De- 
livered "  It  is  described  as  lovely 
beyond  description,  ever\'  thing  in  the 
place  contributing  to  harinonv  and 
sweetness,  and  breathing  forth  the 
fullness  of  bliss.  Here  Kinaldo  and 
Arniida,  in  love  with  each  other,  pass 
their  time;  but  at  last  two  kniglits 
come  and  release  Kinaldo  from  his 
enervating  and  dishonorable  ser\'i- 
tude.  See  Ahmida. 
2.    The    dwelling    of    the    witch 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Froauuciation,"  Trith  the  accompanying  Explanationi, 


BOW 


55 


BRA 


Acrasia,  in  Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen," 
Bk.  ir.,c.  12.  Acrasia  is  ix-preseiitcd 
as  a  beautitul  and  lasciiuitiiij;'  wonuui, 
anil  her  residence,  wliicli  is  situated 
upon  a  lloatinj^  island,  is  described 
as  beiiiji^  embellished  with  every 
thing  calculated  to  charm  the  senses 
and  wrap  the  soul  in  oblivious  indul- 
genee. 
Bow'ling,  Tom.  The  name  of  a  cel- 
ebrated naval  character  in  Smollett's 
novel  of  "  Roderick  Random." 

iK^"The  character  of  Tom  Bowling, 
in  '  KoJerick  R;indom,'  .  .  .  will  be  re- 
garded in  all  ages  as  a  happy  exhibition 
of  those  naval  heroes  to  whom  Britain  is 
indebted  for  so  much  of  her  happiness 
and  glory."  Dunlup. 

Box  and  Cox.  The  title  of  a  "  dra- 
matic romance  of  real  life,"  by  John 
M.  Morton,  and  the  names  of  its 
principal  characters. 

Boy-bishop,  The.  An  appellation 
conferred  upon  St.  Nicholas  (fourth 
century),  on  account  of  his  early  con- 
formity to  the  observances  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  church,  of  which 
the  old  legends  relate  marvelous  in- 
stances. 

Boy-et'.  A  lord  attending  on  the 
princess  of  France,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Love's  Labor  's  Lost." 

Boz  {hji  some  pron.  boz).  A  pseudo- 
nym under  which  Charles  Dickens 
contributed  a  series  of  "  Sketches  of 
Life  and  Character  "  to  the  ''  London 
Morning  Chronicle."  Of  this  nom  de 
planie  he  has  given  the  following  ac- 
count: — 

tfS"  ■'  Box,  my  signature  in  the  '  Morn- 
ing C'lroniiie,'  .  .  .  was  the  nickname  of 
a  pet  child,  a  younger  brother,  wliom  I 
h.id  dubbed  Moses,  in  honor  of  the  '  Vicar 
of  WaketieM,'  which,  being  ficetiously 
pronounceil  through  the  nose,  became 
Boses,  and  being  shortened,  B^z.  Bnz 
was  a  very  familiar  household  word  to  me 
long  before  I  was  an  author,  and  so  I 
came  to  adopt  it."' 

Though  a  pledsje  I  had  to  shiver, 

And  thu  longest  ever  was. 
Ere  his  vos'sel  leaves  our  river 

I  would  drink  a  health  to  Boz.        Hood. 

Boz'zy.  A  familiar  diminutive  of  the 
sirname  of  James  Boswell  (1740- 
1822),  the  friend  and  biograplier  of 


Dr.  Samuel  Johnson,  by  whom  the 
nickname  was  coined. 
Bra-ban'ti-o  (bra-ban'shi-o).     A  sen- 
ator   of    Venice,    in     Shakespeare's 
play  of  "  Othello." 

Brad'a-mant,  or  Bradamante  (bra- 
da-nuin'ta).  A  Christian  Amazon, 
sister  to  Rinaldo,  and  mistress  of 
Ruggiero,  in  Bojardo's  ''Orlando 
Innamorato "  and  Ariosto's  "Or- 
lando Furioso."  She  possessed  an 
irresistible  spear,  which  unhorsed 
every  antagonist  whom  it  touched. 
See  RuGtiiKKo.  [Written  also  Bran- 
daman  te.J 

4®"  ''  I  do  not  think  Bradamante  or 
Brandamante  is  ever  mentioned  in  old 
romances,  and  I  greatly  suspect  her  to 
be  Bojardo's  own  invention."      Fantzzi. 

Brad'war-dine,  Baron.  A  brave 
and  gallant,  but  pedantic,  character 
in  Scott's  ''  Waverley." 

Brad'war-dSne,  Rose.  The  heroine 
of  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of"  Wa- 
verley;" the  daughter  of  Baron 
Bradwardine,  and  the  lover  of  Wa- 
verley, whom  she  tlnally  mames. 

Brag,  Jack.  The  hero  of  a  novel  of 
the  same  name  by  'I'heodore  Hook 
(1789-1841),  a  spirited  embodiment 
of  the  arts  employed  by  a  vulgar 
pretender  to  creep  into  aristocratic 
society. 

In  reality,  however,  he  wns  a  sort  of  liter- 
ary Jac/c  lirtiq.  As  that  amusin'jr  creation  .  .  . 
mustered  himself  with  sportins:  {rentlcrnen 
throujrh  his  command  over  the  teclmicalities 
or  sl:in<i'  of  the  kennel  and  the  turf,  so  did 
Hazlewood  sit  at  the  lioard  with  scholars  and 
aristocratic  book-collectors  throuirh  a  free  use 
of  their  technical  phraseology.      J.  H.  Burton. 

Brag,  Sir  Jack.  A  sobriquet  of  Gen- 
eral John  Burgoyne  (d.  1792).  who 
figtn-es  in  an  old  ballad  entitled  "  Sir 
Jack  Brag." 

Bragi  (bra-'gee).  fOld  Norse  hraqfjn., 
to  adorn,  embellish.  Comp.  Eng. 
hrnq.']  {Scmi'I.  Afyth.)  The  son  of 
Odin  and  Frigga,  the  husband  of 
Iduna,  and  the  god  of  poetry  and 
eloquence;  represented  as  an  old 
man  with  a  long,  flowing  beard,  and 
a  brow  mild  and  unAvn-inkled.  [Writ- 
ten also  B  r  a  g  u  r.  Brag  a.] 

Bragmardo,  Janotus  de  (ja-no'tus 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.xiv-xxxii. 


BRA 


56 


BRA 


de  braff'mar-do ;  Fr.  prnn.  zhJ'no'- 
tiiss'  clu  bni^'marMo',  102).  The 
name  of  a  t^opliister  in  lial)elais'  sa- 
tirical romam-e  of"  (iari^aiitua,"  pent 
by  tiie  citizens  of  Paris  to  remon- 
strate with  (iarj^antua  for  havinj:? 
carried  off  the  bells  of  the  churchy  of 
Notre-Dame,  which  he  had  taken  to 
suspend  at  tlie  neck  of  his  mare. 

Brah'in$.  {Ulnda  .^[ijtli.)  The  su- 
preme, self-existent  god  of  the  Hin- 
dus, usually  represented  with  four 
heads  and  four  arms.  He  is  regarded 
as  the  creator  of  the  universe,  and 
forms,  with  Vishnu,  the  preserver, 
and  Siva,  the  destroyer,  the  divine 
Tviinurtl^  or  triad,  consisting  of  the 
three  principal  gods  of  the  lirahmin- 
ical  faith.  It  is  said  that  he  has  de- 
scended upon  the  earth  nine  times, 
in  various  forms,  and  is  yet  to  appear 
a  tenth  time,  in  the  figure  of  a  war- 
rior upon  a  white  horse,  to  visit  retri- 
bution upon  all  incorrigible  offend- 
ers. [Written  also  Br  am  a,  and 
sometimes  B  r  u  h  m  a.] 

Brainworm.  A  curious,  tricky  char- 
acter in  Ben  Jonson's  play  of  "  Every 
Man  in  his  Humor. 

Bramble,  Matthew.  A  well-known 
character  in  Smollett's  novel,  "  The 
Expedition  of  Humphry  Clinker;" 
described  as  "  an  odd  kind  of  humf)r- 
ist,"  afflicted  with  the  gout,  and  "  al- 
w^ays  on  the  fi-et,"  but  full  of  gener- 
osity and  benevolence. 

To  have  all  literature  swum  away  before  us 
in  watery  extempore,  and  p  spiritual  time  of 
Noah  supervene,  —  that,  surely,  is  an  awful 
reflection,  worthy  of  dyspeptic  Mattheic  Bram- 
ble in  a  London  fog.   "  Carlyle. 

Bramble,  Miss  Tabitha.  An  un- 
married sister  of  ^Matthew  Bramble, 
in  Smollett's  "  Expedition  of  Hum- 
phry Clinker."  She  is  character- 
ized as  "  a  maiden  of  forty-five,  ex- 
ceeding starched,  vain,  and  ridicu- 
lous," soured  by  her  unsuccessfid 
endeavors  to  get  married,  proud,  im- 
perious, piying,  malicious,  greedy, 
and  uncharitable.  She  finally  suc- 
ceeds in  disposing  of  herself  to  Cap- 
tain Lismahago,  who  is  content  to 
take  her  on  account  of  her  snug  little 
fortune  of  .£4000.  Her  personal  ap- 
pearance is  thus  described :  — 


flrjp  "  She  is  tall,  raw-boned,  awkward, 
fl:it-flie>ite(l,  :itid  stoojiinji: ;  lit'r  complex- 
ion is  sallow  and  freckled  ;  her  eyes  are 
not  jcray,  but  jrreenisli,  like  those  of  a 
cat,  and  generally  intiaiiied  ;  lier  hair  is 
of  a  sandy,  or,  rather,  dust}',  huw;  her 
forehead  low  ;  her  iio.-e  long,  sharp,  and, 
toward  tlie  e.xtreuiity,  always  red  in  cooi 
weather  ;  her  lii)s  skinny;  her  mouth  ex- 
tensive ;  her  teeth  straggling  and  loose, 
of  various  colors  and  conformation;  and 
her  long  neck  shriveled  into  a  thousand 
wrinkles." 

Bra-mine',  The.  A  name  given  by 
Sterne  (17i:J-1708)  to  Mrs.  Elizabeth 
l)raj)er,  a  young  woman  of  English 
parentage,  born  in  India,  for  whom 
he  conceived  a  most  violent  aiui  in- 
judicious affection.  In  calling  her 
"The  Bramine,"  he  obviously  in. 
tended  a  reference  to  the  country  of 
her  birth.  For  himself  he  provided 
a  corresponding  name,  —  "  The  Bra- 
min,"  —  suggested  apparenth'  by  his 
profession  of  a  clergyman.  In  1775, 
ten  letters  of  Sterne  to  Mrs.  Draper 
were  published  under  the  title  of 
"Letters  to  Eliza." 

Bran.  The  name  of  FingaPs  dog. 
See  FixGAL. 

JQ'Tf'  '•  Our  Highlanders  have  a  pro- 
verbial saying,  founded  on  the  traditional 
renown  of  Fingal's  dog.  "  If  it  is  not 
Pran,'  they  say,  '  it  is  Bran's  brother.' 
Now  this  is  always  taken  as  a  compli- 
ment of  the  first  class,  whether  applied 
to  an  actual  cur,  or,  paraboiicallv.  to  a 
biped."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

In  process  of  time,  the  nohle  dns  slept  with 
Brnn,  I.naith,  and  the  celebrated  hounds  of 
antiquity.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Brandan,  Island  of  St.     See  Island 

OK    St.  BltAXDAX. 

Bran'di-mart.  fit.,  swords-lover.]  A 
character  in  Bojardo's  "'Orlando,  In- 
namorato."  and  in  Ariosto's  "Or- 
lando Furioso,"  king  of  the  Distant 
Islands. 

Brandy  Nan.  A  nickname  given  to 
Queen  Anne,  in  her  lifetime,  by  the 
populace,  in  allusion  to  her  fondness 
for  brandy. 

Brane'tons,  The.  Characters  in  the 
novel  of  "  Evelina,"  by  ]Miss  Rurney. 
Their  name  became  a  synonym  for 
vulgarity,  malice,  and  jealousy. 

Brass,    Sally.      Sister    to    Sampson 


©3"  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   Explanation^ 


BRA 


57 


BKI 


Brass,  whom   she   surpasses  in  vil- 
lainy.    See  infra. 

Brass,  Sampson.  A  knavish  attor- 
ney in  Dickens's  ''Old  ("uriosity 
Shop,"  distinguished  for  his  servility, 
dishonesty,  and  affected  sentimental- 
ity. 

Bravest  of  the  Brave.  [Fr.  Le 
Brtive  <hs  Bi-nrct^.]  A  title  conferred 
upon  the  celebrated  Marshal  Ney 
(1769-1815)  by  the  French  troops  at 
Friedland  (1807),  on  account  of  his 
fearless  bravery.  He  was  in  com- 
mand of  the  right  wing,  which  bore 
the  brunt  of  the  battle,  and  stormed 
the  town.  Napoleon,  as  he  watched 
him  passing  unterritied  through  a 
shower  of  balls,  exclaimed,  "  That 
man  is  a  lion;"  and  henceforth  the 
army  styled  him  the  Bravest  of  the 
Brave. 

Bray,  The  Vicar  of.  See  Vicar  of 
Bray. 

Brazen  Age.  [Lat.  yEnen  (stas.']  (  Gr. 
ij-  Rom.  Myth.)  One  of  the  four  ages 
or  eras  into  Avhich  the  ancient  poets 
divided  the  history  of  the  human 
race.  It  was  a  period  of  wild  Avar- 
fare  and  violence,  presided  over  by 
Neptune.  The  silver  age  preceded 
it,  and  the  iron  age  followed  it.  See 
Ikon  Age,  Silver  Age. 

Bread  and  Cheese  Land.  See  Bid- 
DENDEN  Maids. 

Breeches  Bibles.  A  name  given  to 
editions  of  the  so  -  called  Genevan 
Bible  (first  printed  at  Geneva,  bv 
Rowland  Hall,  1560,  in  4to),  from 
the  peculiar  rendering  of  Gtn.  iii.  7. 

Breeches  Review.  A  name  formerly 
given,  among  booksellers,  to  the 
"Westminster  Review,"  from  a  Mr. 
Francis  Place,  a  great  authority  with 
the  "  AVestminster."  This  Place  Avas 
at  one  time  a  leather-breeches  maker 
and  tailor  at  Charing-cross,  London. 

Bren'da.  Daughter  of  Magnus  Troil, 
and  sister  to  Minna,  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  "  Pirate." 

Breng'wain.  The  confidante  of  Isolde, 
and  a  prominent  character  in  the  ro- 
mances which  treat  of  the  love  of 
Isolde  and  Sir  Tristram.     [Written 


also  B  r  i  n  g  w  a  i  n,  B  r  c  n  g  e  f  n, 
Brangwaine,  Brangwayne.J 

Brent'ford,   The  Two    Kings    o£ 

Two  characters  in  "  The  ltehe;n>al," 
a  celebrated  farce,  written  by  (ji-orge 
Yilliers,  Duke  of  Buckingham  (1(>27- 
1BS8),  Avith  the  assistance  of  Butler, 
Sprat,  and  others,  in  order  to  correct 
the  pidjlic  taste  by  holding  up  the 
heroic  or  rhyming  tragedies  to  ridi- 
cule. 

^Qf  The  two  kings  are  represented  as 
walking  hand  in  hand,  as  dancing  to- 
gether, as  singing  in  concert,  and,  gen- 
erally, as  living  on  terms  of  the  gi-eateet 
intimacy  and  affection.  There  seems  to 
liave  been  no  particular  reason  for  mak- 
ing them  kings  of  Brentford  rather  than 
of  any  other  place.  Bayes  says  (a.  i., 
sc.  1),  '•  Look  you.  sirs,  the  chief  hinge 
of  this  play  ...  is,  that  I  suppose  two 
kings  of  the  same  place,  as,  for  example, 
at  Brentford;  for  I  love  to  write  famil- 
iarly."' Colonel  Henry  Howard,  son  of 
Thonuas,  Karl  of  Berkshire,  wrote  a  play 
called  "  The  United  Kingdoms,"  which 
begun  with  a  funeral,  and  had  also  two 
kings  in  it.  It  has  been  supjiosed  that 
this  was  the  occasion  of  Buckingham's 
setting  up  two  kings  in  Brentford,  though 
some  are  of  opinion  that  he  intended 
them  for  the  two  rojal  brothers,  Charles 
II.  and  the  Duke  of  York,  afterward 
James  II.  Others  say  that  they  represent 
Boabdelin  and  Abdalla,  contending  kings 
of  Granada.  But  it  is  altogether  more 
probable  that  they  were  designed  to  bur- 
lesque the  two  kings  contending  for  one 
and  the  same  crown  introduced  by  Dry- 
den —  the  Bayes  of  the  piece  —  into  sev- 
eral of  his  serious  plays.  Persons  who 
have  been  known  to  hate  each  other 
heartily  for  a  long  time,  and  who  after- 
ward profess  to  have  become  reconciled. 
and  to  be  warm  friends,  are  often  likened 
to  the  Two  Kings  of  Brentford . 

This  piece  of  generosity  reminds  u.s  of  the 
liberality  of  the  Kinqs  oj  Brentford  tc  ;heir 
Kniglitsbridge  forces.  Sir  W.  ScoU, 

Brewer  of  Ghent.  A  descriDtive 
title  bestowed  upon  Jacob  ArteA'eld, 
a  brewer  of  metheglin  in  Ghent,  Avho 
became  a  great  popular  leader  in  the 
earlv  part  of  the  fourteenth  centur\', 
drove  Louis  I.,  Count  of  Flanders, 
into  France,  ruled  that  province,  and 
supported  Edward  III.  of  England. 

Bri-a're-us  (9).  [Gr.  Bpiapew?.]  {Gr. 
cjr  Rom.  Myth.)     A  son  of  Coelus  and 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BRI 


58 


BRI 


Terra,  a  giant  with  a  hundred  arms 
and  fifty  heads.  At-cordii)",^  to  lle- 
8i()d,  iu'"delt'iuU'd  Jupiter  against  tlie 
Titans;  but  (»tlier  poets  say  tiiat  ho 
assisted  tla'  t,nants  in  their  attempt 
to  storm  Olympus,  and  was  buried 
alive  under  .Mount  ^Etna  as  a  punish- 
ment. [Called  also  ^Eaton.] 
Brick,  Mr.  Jef'ffr-son  (-sn).  A 
tiery  American  politician,  who  li^aires 
in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  Martin  Chuz- 
zlewit." 

Jefferson  Brick,  the  American  editor,  twit- 
ted ine  witli  tiic  multifarious  patented  anom- 
alies of  overj;:rown,  worthless  Dukes,  Bishops 
of  Durham,  &c.,  which  poor  En'ilish  society 
at  present  labors  under,  and  is  made  a  sole- 
cism by.  Carlyle. 

Bride  of  the  Sea.  A  poetical  name 
of  V^enice,  having  its  origin  in  the 
ancient  ceremony  of  the  espousal  of 
the  Adriatic,  during  which  the  doge, 
in  the  presence  of  his  courtiers,  and 
amid  circumstances  of  great  splendor, 
threw  a  ring  into  the  sea,  uttering 
the  words,  '■'  Dtsjxmsamvs  ie,  mm-e, 
in  sifjnum  reri  ptrpvliiique  domwii^'''' 
AVe  wed  thee,  C)  sea.  in  sign  of  a  true 
and  perpetual  dominion. 

Bridge'north,    Major    B,alpli.       A 

Roundhead  who  figures  conspicuously 
in  Scott's  "  Peveril  of  the  Peak." 
Bridge  of  Asses.    See  Pons  Asino- 

KUM. 

Bridge  of  Sighs.  [It.  Ponte  dti  Sos- 
pirl.j  The  name  popularly  given  to 
the  covered  passage-way  which  con- 
nects the  doge's  palace  in  Venice 
with  the  state  prisons,  from  the  cir- 
cumstance that  the  condemned  pris- 
oners Avere  transported  over  this 
bridge  from  the  hall  of  judgment  to 
the  place  of  execution.  Hood  has 
used  the  name  as  the  title  of  one  of 
his  poems. 

Bridget,  Mrs.  The  name  of  a  char- 
acter in  Sterne's  celebrated  novel, 
*'  The  Life  and  Opinions  of  Tristram 
Shandy,  Gent." 

Bridlegoose,  Judge.  [Fr.  Jurje  Bri- 
doye.]  The  name  of  a  character  in 
Rabelais'  famous  satirical  romance 
of"  Pantagruel,"  who  decided  causes 
by  the  chance  of  dice. 

Brid'oison    (bre'dwo'zon',    62).      A 


stupid  judge  in  Bcaumarchais'  "Ma- 
nage do  i'igaro." 
Brignella  (bre-gel'la).  [It.,  from 
bii)j<iy  trouble,  restlessness.]  A 
masked  character,  in  the  Italian  pop- 
ular comedy,  representing  a  proud, 
bold,  and  crafty  plebeian  of  Brescia. 

Brigliadoro  (brel-ya-do'ro).  [It.,  bri- 
dle of  gold.]  The  name  of  Orlando's 
steed,  one  of  the  most  famous  cours- 
ers in  romance,  and  second  only  to 
Bajardo. 

Bri-se'is.  [Gr.  Bpio-rji'?.]  ( Gr.  ^ 
Rum.  Myth.)  The  daughter  of  Bri- 
seus,  a  priest  at  L}Tnessus.  She  fell 
into  the  hands  of  Achilles,  but  was- 
afterward  forced  from  him  by  Aga- 
memnon.    [Called  also  IJippuddmld.] 

British  Ar'is-ti'des.  An  epithet  fre- 
quently applied  to  Andrew  Marvell 
(1020-1678),  an  intiuential  member 
of  the  House  of  Commons  during  the 
reign  of  Charles  II.,  and  a  tirm  op- 
ponent of  the  king.  His  integrity 
was  such  that  he  refused  every  otter 
of  promotion  and  a  direct  bribe  ten- 
dered him  by  the  lord  treasurer,  and 
died  in  poverty,  being  buried  at  the 
expense  of  his  constituents. 

British  Jeremiah.  A  title  given  by 
Gibbon  to  Gildas,  a  British  historian, 
who  is  said  to  have  flourished  in  the 
lirst  halr'of  the  sixth  century.  Wright 
considers  him  a  fabulous  person. 

The  Briti.^h  Jeremiah  ...  is  so  pleased  to 
find,  or  so  determined  to  invent,  topics  f<_ir 
declumatorv  lamentation  or  praise,  that  it  is 
ditfienlt  to  distinguish  the  basis  of  truth  from 
the  fantastic  superstructure  of  exaggeration 
and  falsehood  with  which  he  has  overloaded 
it.  Edin.  Rev. 

British  Pau-sa'ni-as.  A  name 
conferred  upon  William  Camder. 
(1551-1623),  one  of  the  most  dis- 
tinguished scholars  and  learned  anti- 
quaries of  his  age. 

Brit'o-mar'tis,  or  Brit'o-mart.  [Gr. 
BpiTOMapTK,  from  the  Cretan  words 
^plTl;?,  sweet,  and  /xaons,  maid.]  1. 
{Gr.  if  Rom.  .Myth.)  A  Cretan 
nymph,  daughter  of  Jupiter  and 
Carme;  a  Oetan  epithet  of  Diana, 
who  loved  her,  assumed  her  name, 
and  was  worshiped  under  it. 

2.  "A  lady  knight,"  representinf* 
Chastity,  whose   adventures  are  re- 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


BRI 


59 


BRO 


lated  in  Spenser's  "Faery  Queen." 
She  is  represented  as  being  armed 
witli  a  magic  spear,  whicli  nothing 
could  resist. 

Sho  I'harnied  at  once,  and  tamed  the  heart, 
lncoiiii)urablo  Hritoinart!  Sir  IT.  Scott, 

Brittany,  Eagle  of.     See  Eagle  of 

iiUITTANY. 

Broad  Bottom  Ministry.  {F.nfj. 
Hist.)  A  name  derisively  given  to 
an  administration  comprising  nine 
dukes  and  a  grand  coalition  of  all 
parties  of  weight  and  intluence  in  the 
state,  formed  in  Nov.  1744,  and  dis- 
solved by  the  death  of  Mr.  Pelham, 
Mai'ch  6,  1755. 

The  names  of  the  original  members 
were,  — 

The  lit.  Hon.  Henry  Pelham,  First  Tx)rd 
cf  tlie  Treasury,  and  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer. 

Duke  of  Dorset,  President  of  the  Coun- 
cil. 

Earl  Gower,  Lord  Priyy  Seal. 

Duke  of  Newcastle,    )    Secretaries    of 

Earl  of  Harrington,   )  State. 

Duke  of  Mont;igu,  Master  of  the  Ord- 
nance. 

Duke  of  Bedford,  First  Lord  of  the  Ad- 
miralty- 
Duke  of  Grafton,  Lord  Chamberlain. 

Duke  of  Richmond,  Master  of  the 
Horse. 

Duke  of  Argyll,  Keeper  of  the  Great 
Seal  of  Scotland. 

Marquess  of  Tweeddale,  Secretary  of 
State  lor  Scotland. 

Lord  Hardwicke,  Lord  Chancellor. 

From  this  administration,  the  particu- 
lar adherents  of  Pulteney  (newly  cre- 
ated Earl  of  Bath)  and  Lord  Carteret 
were  carefully  excluded. 

Brob 'ding-nag.  An  imaginary  coun- 
try described  in  Swift's  celebrated 
romance  entitled  "  Gulliver's  Trav- 
els." The  inhabitants  are  repre- 
sented as  giants,  about  "  as  tall  as  an 
ordinary  spire-steeple."  Every  thing 
else  is  on  the  same  enormous  scale. 
[Written  also  Brobdignag,  an 
orthography  which,  though  not  that 
of  Swift,  has  acquired  a  prescriptive 
title  to  be  considered  well  authorized.] 

Greatness    with    Tinion  dwells   in    such    a 

draught 
Ab  brings  all  Brobdignag  before  your  tlionght. 

J'ope. 
When  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence  paints  a  hand- 
some peeress,  he  does  not  contemplate  her 
through  a  powerful  microscope,  and  transfer 


to  the  canvas  the  pores  of  the  skin,  the  blood- 
vessels of  the  eye,  and  all  the  otlier  beauties 
wliich  Gulliver  disciivered  in  the  hrolx/iy- 
naygiuH  maids  of  honor.  Jlacaulai/. 

Bron'zo-mar'te.  The  name  of  Sir 
J>auncelot  Greaves's  steed,  in  Smol- 
lett's "Adventures"  of  that  ceU^brat- 
ed  hero;  represented  to  be  "a  line 
mettlesome  sorrel  who  had  got  blood 
in  him." 

Brook,  Master.  A  name  assumed 
by  Ford,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Merry 
Wives  of  ^Vindsor,"  witli  a  design 
to  dupe  Sir  John  I'alstatf,  who  is  in 
love  with  Ford's  wife.  The  amorous 
knight  duly  reports  to  Master  Brook 
the  progress  of  his  suit  to  Mrs.  Ford, 
and  the  various  contrivances  by 
which  he  escapes  the  search  of  her 
jealous  husband,  one  of  which  Avas 
that  of  being  carried  out  of  the  house 
concealed  in  a  heap  of  foul  linen. 

Brother  Jonathan.  A  sportive  col- 
lective name  tor  the  people  of  the 
United  States. 

j8@=-  When  General  Washington,  after 
being  appointed  commander  of  the  army 
of  the  Revolutionary  war,  went  to  Massa- 
chusetts to  organize  it,  and  make  prep- 
arations for  the  defense  of  the  country, 
he  found  a  great  want  of  ammunition 
and  other  means  necessary  to  meet  the 
powerful  foe  he  had  to  contend  with,  and 
great  difficulty  in  obtaining  them.  If 
attacked  in  such  a  condition,  the  cause 
might  at  once  be  lost  On  one  occasion, 
at  that  anxious  period,  a  consultation  of 
the  officers  and  others  was  had,  when  it 
seemed  no  way  could  be  devised  to  make 
such  preparation  as  was  necessary.  Jon- 
athan Trumbull,  the  elder,  was  then 
governor  of  Connecticut,  and,  as  Wash- 
ington placed  the  greatest  reliance  on  his 
judgment  and  aid,  he  remarked,  "'  We 
must  consult  Brother  .Tonathan  on  the 
subject."  He  did  so,  and  the  governor 
was  successful  in  supplying  many  of  the 
wants  of  the  army.  When  difficultiefs 
afterward  arose,  and  the  army  was  spread 
over  the  country,  it  became  a  by  -  word, 
"  We  must  consult  Brother  Jonathan." 
The  origin  of  the  expression  being  soon 
lost  sight  of,  the  name  Brother  Jonathan 
came  to  be  regarded  as  the  national  sobri- 
quet. The  foregoing  account  is  from  the 
"•Norwich  (Connecticut)  Courier;""  but 
it  has  more  recently  been  suggested  that 
the  expression  originally  had  reference  to 
Captain  Jonathan  Carver  (1732-1780),  an 
early  American  traveler  among  the  In- 
dians, from  whom  he  received  large  grantt 


nod  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


BRO 


GO 


BUD 


of  lands,  in  the  deods  convojinp:  wliJch  he 
is  repwittHlly  styled  "our  dcjir  hrotlier 
Jonathau."'  Carver  published  in  London, 
in  1778.  an  octavo  volunieentitled.  "  Trav- 
el»  tlirouj^li  the  Interior  I'arts  of  North 
America,  in  the  years  17G(J.  "(57,  and  'G8." 
As  the  work  was  extensively  read,  the 
author  became  a  sort  of  representiitive 
man  of  Ids  countrymen  ;  and  it  is  not 
difficult  to  .'iCB  how  the  odd  designation 
given  him  by  the  Indians  might  be  caught 
up  and  applied  to  ad  Americans.  The 
following  citation,  however,  from  an  old 
pamphlet,  satirizing  the  Puritan  innova- 
tions in  the  arrangement  and  furniture 
of  churches,  would  seem  to  imply  that 
the  name  originated  at  a  much  earlier 
day,  and  that  it  was  at  first  applied  to 
the  Roundheads,  or  parliamentary  party 
in  the  time  of  Charles  1.:  — 

"  Queen  Elizabeth's  monument  was  put  up 
at  my  char<;e  when  the  reKal  government  liuu 
fairer  credit  amonj;  us  than  now,  and  her 
epitaph  was  one  of  niy_  Brother  Jonathan's 
best  poems,  before  he  abjured  the  Univensity, 
or  had  a  thnup;ht  of  New  Enjrland." 

The  Reforiiiado  preciseli/  charactered  hy  a 
transrbriued  Churchwdrden  at  a  Vestry, 
London,  1043. 

If  you  knock  my  old  friend  John  Bull  on 
the  head,  I  mean  to  take  up  with  lirother 
Jonathan,^  wlio,  after_  all,  is  a  very  decent 
fellow,  and,  in  my  opinion,  more  likely  to 
have  iieace  and  quiet  under  his  own  fig-tree, 
by  and  by,  than  any  other  gentleman  of  our 
acquaintance.  ^foctes  Ambrosiaiioe. 

Brown  the  Younger,  Thomas. 
A  pseudonym  under  which  Thomas 
Moore,  in  1813,  published  the  "  Two- 
penny Po.st-bag,"  a  series  of  witty, 
playful,  and  very  popular  satires, 
directed  against  the  prince  regent 
and  his  ministers. 

Brii'in.  [D.  bruin^  brown.]  In  the 
German  epic  poem  of  "  Reinecke  the 
Fox,"  the  bear  is  called  b}'  this 
name ;  hence,  a  bear  in  general. 

Brunehild  (broo'na-hilf),  or  Brun- 
hilde  (broon-bll'dii).  [0.  H.  Ger. 
brimilnlt,  from  brunl^  brunja,  coat  of 
mail,  and  Hilti^  goddess  of  war,  from 
hili.,  battle,  contest.]  A  proud  war- 
rior-virgin in  the  German  epic,  the 
"  Nibelungen  Lied,"  who  promised 
to  be  the  bride  of  the  man  who  could 
conquer  her  in  three  trials,  in  hurling 
the  lance,  in  throwing  the  stone,  and 
in  leaping  after  the  stone  when 
thrown.  I3y  the  arts  and  bravery  of 
Siegfried,  sbe  was  deluded  into  mar- 
rying Gunther,  king  of  Burgundy; 
but,  discovering  the  trick  that  had 


been  pnt  upon  her.  she  planned  an() 
acconiplislied  the  destruction  of  Sieg- 
fried, and  the  humiliation  of  Chriem» 
liild,  ills  wile,  who  was  her  rival. 
The  story  of  iiriincliild  forms  a  large 
part  of  the  cycle  of  ancient  German 
romance.  See  Ciihiemhild.  [Writ- 
ten also  Brunhilt,  Brynhilda, 
and  B  ry  n  hi  1  d.] 

Bru-nel'lo.  A  thievish  dwarf  in  Bo- 
jardo's  "  Orlando  Innamorato,"  who 
besides  other  exploits,  steals  Angel- 
ica's magic  ring,  and,  by  means  of 
it,  releases  Bogero  from  a  castle  in 
which  he  is  imprisoned. 

Brute,  Sir  John.  A  character  in 
Vanbriigh's  play,  "  The  I'rovoked 
Wife,"  distinguished  for  his  absurdi- 
ties and  coarse,  pot-house  valor. 

Bubble,  Law's.  See  Law's  BuBULii. 

Bubble,  South-Sea.  See  South-Sea 

BUIJBI.E. 

Bubble  Act.  {Eng.  Hist.)  The  name 
popularly  given  to  an  act  (6  Geo.  L, 
c.  18)  passed  in  1719,  and  designed 
to  punish  unprincipled  adventurers 
who  proposed  schemes  —  popularly 
called  Bubbles  —  merely  as  baits  to 
extract  money  from  the  ignorant  or 
thoughtless.  It  was  repealed  Julv  5, 
182.5. 

Bu-ceph'a-lus.  [Gr.  ^ou»fe<f><iAa?,  ]Ma- 
cedonian,  ^ovK€4)d\a<;^  bull -headed, 
from  iSou?,  bullock,  and/ce^aAr;,  head.] 
The  name  of  a  celebrated  horse  of 
Alexander  the  (ireat,  who  was  the 
first  to  break  him  in,  and  who  thus 
fultilled  the  condition  stated  by  an 
oracle  as  necessary  for  gaining  the 
crown  of  INIacedon. 

Buckeye  State.  The  State  of  Ohio; 
popularly  so  called  from  the  buck- 
eye-tree {Al,scuIus  Jiava),  which 
abounds   there. 

Buddha  (bo~6d'a).  [Sansk.,  wise,  sage, 
from  bufkl,  to  know.]  One  of  the 
beings  -vvor-shiped  or  venerated  by  the 
Huddhists,  a  sect  of  religionists  in- 
cluding more  than  one  third  of  the 
human  race,  and  spreading  over  the 
greater  part  of  Central  and  Eastern 
Asia,  and  the  Indian  islands.  The 
term  is  used  to  designate  either  the 
historical  founder  of  Buddhism,  —  a 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  th«>    if  "nmpaaying  Explanation^ 


BUL 


61 


BUN 


Hindu  sage  named  Gautama,  who  is 
thought  to  have  lived  in  the  sixth 
century,  b.  c,  —  or  one  of  his  fab- 
ulous protot}'pes  or  successors,  of 
whom  there  are  many,  of  ditferent 
classes.  [Written  also  Bud  ha, 
Boodh,  Bhood,  Budh,  auid  in 
many  other  ways.  Hardy,  in  his 
"Manual  of  Buddhism,"  gives  a  list 
of  more  than  tifty  varieties  which 
had  fallen  under  his  notice.] 

Bull,  John.  A  well-kaown  collective 
name  of  the  English  nation,  lirst 
used  in  Arbuthnot's  satire,  "  The 
History  of  John  Bull,"  usually  pub- 
lishetl  in  Swift's  works.  In  this 
satire,  the  French  are  designated  as 
Lewis  Baboon,  the  Dutch  as  Nicholas 
Frog,  &.C.  The  "  History  of  John 
Bull  "  was  designed  to  ridicule  the 
Duke  of  Marlborough. 

4Q=»  "There  is  no  species  of  humor  in 
which  the  English  more  excel  than  that 
which  consists  in  caricaturing  and  giving 
ludicrous  appellations  or  nicknames.  In 
this  way,  they  have  whimsically  desig- 
nated, not  merely  individuals,  but  na- 
tions ;  and,  in  their  fondness  for  pushing 
a  joke,  they  have  not  spared  even  them- 
selves. One  would  think,  that,  in  per- 
sonifying itself,  a  nrition  would  be  apt  to 
picture  sometliiug  gntnd.  heroic,  and  im- 
posing ;  but  it  is  characteristic  of  the 
peculiar  humor  of  the  English,  and  of 
their  love  for  what  is  blunt,  comic,  and 
familiar,  thvt  they  have  embodied  their 
national  oddities  in  the  figure  of  a  sturdy, 
corpulent  old  fellow,  with  a  three-cornered 
hat,  red  waistcoat,  leiither  breeches,  and 
stout  oaken  cudgel.  Thus  they  have 
taken  a  singular  delight  in  exhibiting 
their  most  private  foibles  in  a  laughable 
point  of  view,  and  have  been  so  success- 
ful in  their  delineation,  that  there  is 
scarcely  a  being  in  actual  existence  more 
ab.solutely  present  to  the  public  mind 
than  that  eccentric  personage,  John 
Bull."  W.  Irving. 

Bul'ler  of  Brazenose.  A  name  given 

in  Wilson's  "  Noctes  Ambrosiante  " 
to  John  Hughes  (of  Oriel  College, — 
not  Brazenose,  —  Oxford),  author  of 
an  "  Itinerary  of  the  Rhone,"  and  of 
other  works. 
Bully  Dawson.  See  Dawson,  Bully. 

Bum'ble,  Mr.  A  mean  and  cowardly 
L'iMdIe  in  Dickens's  "  Oliver  Twist," 
puffed  up  with  the  insolence  of  office. 


Bunch,  Mother.  See  Mother 
Bunch. 

Bun'cie,  John  (bungk'l).  The  hero 
of  a  fantastic  book  entitled  "  The 
Life  of  John  Buncle,  Es(|.;  contain- 
ing various  Observations  and  Reflec- 
tions made  in  several  parts  of  the 
World,  and  many  Extraordinary  Re- 
lations." He  is  said  to  l)e  the  re))re- 
sentative  of  his  author,  Thomas  Am- 
ory  (I0Dl-178ii),  an  eccentric  person 
of  whose  history  little  is  known.  See 
English  Rabelais,  3. 

j8®=  "  John  is  a  kind  of  innocen( 
'  Henry  the  Eighth  of  private  life,'  with, 
out  the  other's  fit,  fury,  and  solemnity. 
He  is  a  prodigious  hand  at  matrimony, 
at  divinity,  at  a  song,  at  a  loud  '  hem,' 
and  at  a  turkey  and  chine.  He  breaks 
with  tiie  Trinitarians  as  confidently  and 
with  as  much  scorn  as  Henry  did  with 
the  Pope ;  and  he  marries  seven  wives, 
whom  he  disposes  of  by  the  lawful  j>ro- 
cess  of  fever  and  small-pox.  His  book  is 
made  up  of  natural  history,  mathematics 
(literally),  songs,  polemics,  landscapes, 
eating  and  drinking,  and  characters  of 
singular  men,  all  bound  together  by  his 
introductions  to,  and  marriages  with, 
these  seven  successive  ladies,  every  one 
of  whom  is  a  charmer,  a  Unitjirian.  and 
cut  off  in  the  flower  of  her  youth.  Bun- 
cle does  not  know  how  to  endure  her 
loss  ;  he  shuts  his  eyes  '  for  three  days  ;  ' 
is  stupefied  ;  is  in  despair  ;  till  suddenly 
he  recollects  that  Heaven  does  not  like 
such  conduct ;  that  it  is  a  mourner's 
business  to  bow  to  its  decrees  ;  to  be  de- 
vout;  to  be  philosophic; — in  short,  to 
be  jolly,  and  look  out  for  another  dear, 
bewitching  partner,  '  on  Christian  prin- 
ciples.' This  is,  literally,  a  fair  account 
ofiiisbook."  Leigh  Hunt. 

Oh  for  the  pen  of  John  Buncle,  to  consecrate 
a  petit  souvenir  to  their  memory  [Lamh'a 
Wednesday-evening  parties]!  HazUtt. 

Bun'combe  (bungk'um).  A  cant  or 
popular  name,  in  the  United  States, 
for  a  body  of  constituents,  or  for  an 
oratorical  display  intended  to  win 
popular  applause.  [Written  also 
B  u  n  k  u  m.] 

^8®="  According  to  the  Hon.  William 
Darlington,  the  phrase  '*  speaking  for 
Buncombe  "  originated  near  the  close  of 
the  debate  on  the  famous  '"  Missouri 
Question,"  in  the  sixteenth  Congress.  It 
was  then  u.sed  by  Felix  Walter,  a  naive 
old  mountaineer,  who  resided  at  Waynes- 
ville,    in    Haywood,    the  most  westeru 


«nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  aftor  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


BUN 


62 


BYR 


•ounty  of  North  Carolina,  near  the  bor- 
der of  the  adjacent  county  of  Buncouibe, 
which  fomied  part  of  his  district.  The 
old  man  rose  to  ppcak,  while  the  House 
was  impatiently  calhiig  for  the  '"  ques- 
tion,"' and  several  members  gathered 
round  him,  begging  him  to  desist.  He 
persevered,  however,  for  a  while,  declar- 
ing tliat  the  people  of  his  district  expected 
it,  ami  tnat  he  was  bound  to  "make  a 
speech  for  Buncombe."' 

Bundschuh  (b<j<jnt'sh(X)).  [Ger.,  a 
kind  of  large  shoe  which  Avent  over 
the  ankle  aiid  was  tied  up.]  ( Gei: 
Jlisl.)  A  name  given  to  the  insur- 
rection of  the  peasants  in  the  tir.st 
half  of  the  sixteenth  centur\-,  be- 
cause the  insurgents  carried  a  clouted 
shoe  as  an  ensign  upon  a  pole,  and 
even  upon  their  banners. 

Bvms'by,  Jack.  A  commander  of  a 
ship  in  Dickens's  "  Dombey  and 
Son,"  looked  up  to  as  an  oracle  and 
philosopher  by  his  friend  Captain 
Cuttle.  He  is"^  described  as  weaving 
a  ''  rapt  and  imperturbable  manner," 
and  seeming  to  be  "  always  on  the 
lookout  for  something  in  the  extrem- 
est  distance." 

Bunyan,  Bishop.  See  Bishop  Bun- 
van. 

Buovo  d'  Agramonte  (boo-o^vo  da- 
gra-mon'ta).      See    Beuves    d'Ay- 

CiKF.MONT. 

Bur'chell,  Mr.  A  prominent  character 
in  Goldsmith's'"  Vicar  of  AVaketield," 
who  passes  himself  off  as  a  poor 
man,  but  is  really  a  baronet  in  dis- 

fjuise,  his  true  name  being  Sir  Wil- 
iam  Thornhill.  He  is  noted  for  his 
habit  of  crying  out  "  P\idge !  "  by 
way  of  expressing  his  strong  dissent 
from,  and  contempt  for,  the  opinions 
of  others,  or  his  disbelief  of  their  as- 
sertions. 
Biird  Helen.  [Burr?,  according  to 
Jamieson,  is  a  Scottish  form  of  bii-d, 
used  as  a  term  of  endearment.  But 
see  inf'ra.l  A  heroine  of  Scottish 
ballad   and   tradition,  renowned   for 


her  resolute  constancy.  She  is  borne 
away  to  Eltland  by  the  fairies,  and 
imprisoned  in  a  castle,  from  which 
she  ift  rescued  by  her  brother,  the 
Childe  Howland.  See  Rowland, 
Chili>e. 

jeSr"  '■  Burd  is  the  Scottish  feminine  of 
the  French  prtux  or  pntd'honimc  The 
prtux  cktvaJitr  was  brave  and  wise,  the 
Burd  of  Scottish  song  was  discreet."' 

Yonge. 

B\iri  (boo^ree).  [Old  Norse,  producer.] 
(SainJ.  Mijth.)  The  progenitor  of 
the  gods.  See  Audhumiila.  [Writ- 
ten also  B  u  re.] 

Burleigh,  Lord.  See  Lokd  Bur- 
leigh. 

Burly  King  Harry.  See  Bluff 
Hal. 

Burnbill.  A  name  given  to  Henry 
de  Londres,  Archbishop  of  Dublin 
and  Lord  Justice  of  Ireland,  in  the 
reign  of  Henry  HI.  He  is  said  to 
have  fraudulently  procured  and 
burnt  all  the  instruments  by  which 
the  tenants  of  the  archiepiscopal  es- 
tates held  their  lands. 

Bu-si'ris  (9).  [Gr.  BoOo-tpt?.]  {Myth.) 
An  Kgyptian  king,  son  of  Neptune. 
He  was  a  monstrous  giant,  who  fed 
his  horses  on  human  flesh.  He  was 
finally  slain  by  Hercules. 

Buttermere,  Beauty  of.  See  Beau- 
ty  OF   BUTTEltMEKE. 

Buz'fuz,  Sergeant.  A  character  in 
Dickens's  "  Pickwick  Papers." 

Byblis.  [Gr.  B^iSAi'?.]  (  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  ^Miletus,  who 
wept  herself  into  a  fountain  fi-om  a 
hopeless  passion  for  her  brother  Cau- 
nus. 

Byeorne.     See  Ghtchevache. 

By'rSn,  Miss  Harriet  (9).  A  beau- 
tiful and  accomplished  woman,  de- 
votedly attached,  and  finally  married, 
to  Sir  Charles  Grandison,  in  Kicbard- 
son's  novel  of  this  name.    See  Gkan- 

DISON,    SiK  ChAKLES. 


Cs3~  for  the  -'Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


CAB 


63 


CAL 


c. 


Dabal,  The.  {Eng.  Hist.)  A  name 
given  to  a  famous  cabinet  council 
Ibnaed  in  1070,  and  composed  of  live 
unpopular  ministers  of  Charles  II. ; 
namely,  Lords  Cliftbrd,  Ashlej',  Buck- 
iny;ham,  Arlington,  and  Lauderdale. 
The  word  "  cabal  "  —  at  that  time  in 
common  use  to  denote  <t  junto,  or  Si-t 
of  men  unittdfor  j)o/itical  purposes  — 
having  been  popidarly  ap])lied  to  this 
ministrj^  as  a  term  of  reproach,  it 
■was  soon  discovered  to  be  a  sort  of 
anagram  made  up  of  the  initials  of 
the  names  of  the  several  members. 

Caballero,  Fernan  (fef-nan'  ka-bftl- 
ya'ro,  82).  A  nam  tie  plume  of  Dora 
Cecilia  AiTom,  one  of  the  most  popu- 
lar living  writers  of  Spain.  She  is 
the  autlior  of  various  tales,  which 
present  truthful  and  lively  pictures 
of  Andalusian  manners. 

Ca-bi'ri  (9).  [Gr.  Ka^etpot.]  {Myth.) 
Mystic  divinities  anciently  worshiped 
in  Egypt,  Phcenicia,  Asia  Minor,  and 
Greece.  They  were  regarded  as  in- 
ferior in  dignity  to  the  great  gods, 
and  were  probably  representatives  of 
the  powers  of  nature.  [Written  also 
Cabeirei.] 

Ca'cus.  {Rom.  Myth.)  An  Italian 
shepherd,  usually  called  a  son  of  Vul- 
can, and  described  by  Ovid  as  a  fear- 
ful giant.  He  was  a  most  notorious 
robber,  and  w'as  slain  by  Hercules  for 
stealing  his  oxen. 

There  you  will  find  the  Lord  RJnaldo  of 
Montalban,  with  his  friends  and  companions, 
all  of  them  greater  thieves  than  Canus. 

Cervantes,  Trans. 

Our  hero,  feeling  his  curiosity  considerably 
excited  by  the  idea  of  visiting  the  den  of  a 
Highland  Cooiiss,  took,  however,  the  precau- 
tion to  inquire  if  his  guide  might  be  trusted. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Daddee.  See  League  of  God's 
House. 

Da-de'nus.  A  name  under  which 
Swift  describes  himself  in  his  poem 
of  "Cadenus  and  Vanessa."  Cade- 
nns  is  the  Latin  word  decanus  (aean), 
by  transposition  of  letters.  See  Va- 
nessa. 


Cademts,  indeed,  believe  him  who  will,  has 
assured  us,  that,  in  such  a  perilous  intercourse, 
he  himself  ))reHerved  the  limits  which  were 
unhappily  transgressed  by  the  unfortunate 
Vanessa,  his  more  impassioned  pupil. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Cad'mus.  [Gr.  Ka5|oios.]  (  Gr.  (f  Ham. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  A  gen  or,  king  of 
Pha-nicia,  and  a  brother  of  Europa. 
He  is  the  reputed  founder  of  the  city 
of  Thebes,  in  Baotia ;  and  he  is  said 
to  have  invented,  or  at  least  to  have 
brought  from  Phcenicia,  the  old  Greek 
alphabet  of  sixteen  letters,  namely, 

aliySeiKKfj-VonpcTTV-         These 

are  called  Cndmean  letters.  They 
were  afterward  increased  by  the  ad- 
dition of  eight  more,  nanied  Ionic 
letters,  namely,  <;y\0^^x^'^' 
CSi-du'ce-us.  [Lat.,  from  Gr.  Ki]pv- 
K€Loi',  a  herald's  wand,  ^olic  Kapv- 
Keiov  {r  being  changed  into  its  cog- 
nate, d),  from  icripv^,  a  herald.]  (  Or. 
(^  Rom.  Mytli.)  A  winged  staft'  or 
rod,  with  two  serpents  entwined 
about  it ;  an  attribute  of  Mercury. 

Cad'w§,L  A  feigned  name  assumed 
by  Arviragus  in  Shakespeare's  "  Cym- 
beline."     See  Akvikagus. 

Csec'u-lus.  ( Rom.  Myth.  )  A  son  of 
Vulcan,  a  robber,  and  the  reputed 
founder  of  Prameste. 

Cagliostro,  Count  de  (kal-yos'tro). 
Tlie  assumed  name  of  Joseph  Balsa- 
mo  (1743-171)5),  one  of  the  most  im- 
pudent and  successful  impostors  of 
modern  times. 

Ca'ius,  Dr.  A  French  physician,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Merrj'  Wives  of 
Windsor." 

Bad  in  themselves  [certain  portions  of  Bos- 
well's  "Life  of  Jolinson  "],  they  are  good 
dramatically,  like  .  .  .  the  clipped  English  of 
I>r.  Cuius.  Mucaulay. 

Calandrino  (kii-lan-dre^no).  The 
subject  of  a  stor}^  in  Boccaccio's  "  De- 
cameron "  (Day  8,  Tale  9).  His 
mishaps,  as  Macavday  states,  "  have 
made  all  Europe  merry  for  more  than 
four  centuries." 

Cal'chas.  [Gr.  KaAxa?.]  {Gr.  ff- 
Rom.  Myth.)     A  famous  soothsayer 


tod  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


CAL 


64 


CAM 


who    accompanied    the    Greeks    to 
Troy. 

Cal'e-d.6n.  A  poetical  contraction  of 
Cnltdonin.     See  Caledonia. 

Not  thus,  in  ancient  daj^s  of  Vuledon, 
Wad  thy  voice  mute  uuiid  the  festal  crowd. 
iSir  IV.  Scott. 

Cal'e-do'ni-a.  The  ancient  Latin 
name  of  Scotland,  often  used  as  a 
synonym  of  Scotland  in  modern  poe- 
try-. 

O  Caledonia,  stern  and  wild, 
Meet  nurse  for  a  poetic  child! 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Calendars,  The  Three.  See  Three 
Calendahs,  The. 

Cal'i-b3,n.  [A  metathesis  of  cnnnlbaL] 
A  savage  and  deformed  slave  of 
Prospero,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Tem- 
pest." He  is  represented  as  being 
the  "freckled  whelp"  of  Sycorax,  a 
foul  hag,  who  Avas  banished  troni  Ar- 
gier  (or  Algiers)  to  the  desert  island 
afterward  inhabited  by  Prospero. 

M^  "  ("aliban  ...  is  all  earth,  all 
condensed  and  gross  in  feelinpts  aud  im- 
ages :  he  has  the  dawiiings  of  under- 
standiug.  without  reason  or  the  moral 
sense  ;  and  in  him,  as  in  some  brute  an- 
imals, this  advance  to  the  intellectual 
faculties,  without  the  moral  sense,  is 
marked  by  the  appearance  of  vice." 

Coleridge. 

The  quantity  of  furious  abuse  poured  out 
against  tlie  Bourbons  might  have  authorized 
the  authors  to  use  tlie  words  of  Caliban, — 

"  You  taught  me  language,  and  my  profit 
on  't 
Is—  I  know  how  to  curse."       Sir  W.  Scott. 

Cal'i-burn.    See  Excalibur. 

Cal'i-dore.  [Gr.,  beautifully  gifted.] 
A  knight  in  Spenser's"  "  Faery 
Queen,"  typical  of  courtesy,  and 
supposed  to  be  intended  as  a  portrait 
of  Sir  Philip  Sidney. 

In  renlity.  he  [Sir  Gawain]  was  the  CnJidore 
of  the  Round  Table.  Southcy. 

Ca-lip'o-lis.  A  character  in  "  The 
Battle  of  Alcazar"  (L594),  an  inflat- 
ed play  attril)uted  by  Dyce  to  George 
Peele,  a  dramatist  of  the  Elizabethan 
age ;  —  referred  to  by  Pistol,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  2  Henrj'  IV.,"  a.  ii.,  sc.  4. 

Hark  vc,  most  fair  CaJipoJin,  ...  if  thou 
take>t  all  that  trouble  of  skewerin";  thyself 
together,  like  a  trussed  fowl,  that  there  may 
be  more  i)leasure  in  the  carving,  even  save 
thyself  the  labor.  Sir  W.  Scott, 

C5-lis'ta.    The  name  of  the  heroine 


of  Rowe's  "  Fair  Penitent,"  charac- 
terized as 

"  haughty,  insolent. 
And  fierce  with  high  disdain." 

No  high  Cdlistd  tliat  ever  issued  from  story- 
teller's brain  will  impress  us  more  deeply  than 
this  meanest  of  the  mean,  and  for  a  good 
reason,  —  that  she  issued  from  tlie  maker  of 
men.  Curli/le. 

Cal-li'o-pe.  [Gr.  KaWionr),  the  beau- 
tiful-voiced. J  (Gi\  df  Rom.  Myth.) 
One  of  the  nine  Pluses.  She  pre- 
sided over  eloquence  and  epic  poetry, 
or  poetry  in  general,  and  was  the 
motlier  of  Orpheus  and  Linus.  She 
was  usually  represented  with  a  style 
and  waxen  tablets. 

Cal-lis'to.  [Gr.  KaAAto-rci.]  (Gr.  (f 
Rom.  Myth.)  An  Arcadian  nymph, 
and  a  favorite  of  Jupiter,  who  meta- 
morphosed her  into  a  she-bear,  that 
ilheir  intimacy  might  not  become 
known  to  Juno.  Her  son  Areas 
having  met  her  in  the  chase,  one 
day,  was  on  the  point  of  killing  her, 
but  Jupiter  prevented  him  by  placing 
both  of  them  in  the  heavens  as  the 
Great  Bear  and  the  Little  Bear. 

Cal'j^-d6n.  A  forest  supposed  to  have 
occupied  the  northern  portion  of 
Great  Britain  ;  very  celebrated  in 
the  romances  relating  to  King  Arthur 
and  Merlin. 

Ca-lyp'so.  [Gr.  KaAv.//c6.]  (Gr.  (f 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Atlas. 
She  was  one  of  the  Oceanides,  and 
reigned  in  the  island  of  Ogygia, 
whose  situation  and  even  existence 
are  doubted.  Here  she  received 
Ulysses,  on  his  way  home  from 
Troy,  entertaining  him  with  great 
hospitality,  and  promising  him  im- 
mortality if  he  Avould  remain  with 
her  as  a  husband.  Ulysses  refused, 
and,  after  seven  years'  delay,  he  was 
permitted  to  depart  by  order  of  Mer- 
cury, the  messenger  of  Jupiter. 

a  solitary  rover,  in  such  a  voyage,  with 
such  nautical  tactics,  will  meet  witli  adven- 
tures. Nay  ;  as  wc  forthwith  discover,  a  cer- 
tain frt7.'//wo-island  detiiins  him  at  the  very 
outset,  and,  as  it  were,  falsifies  and  oversets 
his  whole  reckoning.  Carli/le, 

Camacho  (kii-m.^'cho.)  A  character 
in  an  episode  in  Ctfrvantes's  "  Don 
Quixote,"  who  gets  cheated  out  of 
his  bride  after  liaving  made  great 
preparations  for  their  wedding. 


j®~  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  EzplauationSp 


CAM 


Go 


CAM 


Prince. 


Sec 


Camaralzaman,^     Princ 

Cam'ba-lu.  In  the  "Voyages"  of 
Marco  I'olo,  the  chief  city  of  the 
province  of  Cathay.  It  is  now  iden- 
tified with  Pel\in. 

Cam'bri-a.  Tiie  ancient  Latin  name 
of  Wales,  often  used  by  modern 
poets.  It  is  derived  from  C'diuber, 
the  son  of  Brutus,  a  legendary  Iving 
of  Britain.  Brutus  at  Ids  death  lett 
the  isle  to  his  three  sons,  one  of 
whom,  Camber,  received  the  western 
part. 

When    stars    through   c^-^press  -  boughs    are 
gleaming, 
Anil  tiro-tlits  wander  bright  and  free. 
Still  of  thy  harps,  thy  mountains  dreaming, 
My  thoughts,  wild  Cambria,  dwell  with  thee. 
J//>'.  Jlenuuis. 

Camnbus-can,  or  Cam-bus'can.  A 
king  of  Tartary,  in  Chaucer's 
"  Squier's  Tale,"  to  whom,  upon  the 
anniversary  of  his  birthday,  the  king 
of  Araby  and  Ind  sends  as  presents 
a  brazen  horse  capable  of  transport- 
ing his  rider  into  the  most  distant 
region  of  the  world  in  the  space  of 
twenty-four  hours ;  a  mirror  of  glass 
endued  with  the  power  of  discover- 
ing the  most  hidden  machinations 
of  treason,  and  of  showing  any  dis- 
asters Avhich  might  threaten  to  befall 
the  possessor;  a  naked  sword  which 
could  pierce  armor  deemed  impene- 
trable ;  and  a  ring  —  intended  for 
Canace,  Cambuscan's  daughter  — 
which  would  enable  the  owner  to 
understand  the  language  of  every 
species  of  birds,  and  the  virtues  of 
every  plant.  The  poem  ends  abrupt- 
ly, the  conclusion  of  the  story  having 
either  been  lost,  or  never  written. 

4fg=- "  I  think  that  it  is  not  unlikely 
that  Chaucer  had  seen  '  The  Travels  of 
Marco  Polo.'  and  that  Cnmbitarnn,  or 
Cambu's  Can.  is  a  contraction  of  Cam- 
balu.  Can.  We  may  observe  that  the 
name  of  one  of  his  sons  is  Camhallo.  Of 
Algarsif,  the  other  son.  I  can  give  no  ac- 
count. The  name  of  his  daughter,  Can- 
ace, is  Greek.  Keiglitlcy. 

4®=»  "  It  is  strange  that  Milton  should 
have  pronounced  the  word  Camhns'rnn  ; 
nor  is  it  pleasant,  when  his  robust  line 
must  be  resoundincj  in  the  ear  of  every 
one  to  whom  the  story  is  called  to  mind, 
to  be  forced  to  obey  even  the  greater  dic- 
tation  of  the    original,  and   throw    the 


accent,  as  undoubtedly  it  ought  to  bo 
tarown,()ii  tlie  first  and  last  syllable.  Oa 
no  theory,  as  respects  Chaucer's  versi- 
tication,  docs  it  appear  intelligible  how 
Milton  could  have  tiirown  the  accent  oa 
the  second  syllable,  wuen  the  other  read- 
ing stares  us  in  the  face  throughout 
Chaucer's  poem."  Lti^k  Hunt. 

Tills  noble  king,  this  Tartrc  Camhiiscan, 
lladde  two  sones  by  Elfleta,  his  wif. 
Of  wliicli  the  eldest  sone  higlUe  Algarsif, 
That  other  was  ycleped  Cauiballo. 

Qiaucer. 
Or  call  up  him  that  left  half  told 
The  story  of  Candniseayi  bold, 
Of  Camball  and  of  Algarsife, 
And  who  had  Canace  to  wife, 
Tliat  owned  the  virtuous  rhig  and  glass; 
And  of  the  wondrous  horse  of  brass 
On  which  the  Tartar  king  did  ride.    Milton 

I  have  still  bv  me  the  beginnings  of  scvera' 
stories,  .  .  .  wfiich,  after  in  vain  endeavorin 
to  mold  them  into  shape,  I  threw  aside,  like 
the  tale  of  C'ambuscun,  "  left  half  told." 

T.  Moore. 

Cambyses,  King.    See  King  Cam^ 

liYlSKS. 

Cam'de-o.  {Hmdu  Myth.)  The  god 
of  love.     See  Kama. 

The  tenth  Avatar  comes!  at  Heaven's  com- 
mand. 
Shall  Seriswattee  wave  her  hallowed  wand. 
And  Caiiitleo  l)right  an".  Ganesa  sublime 
Shall   bless   with  joy  their  own    propitious 
clime !  Cuiui>belU 

Cam'e-lSt.  A  parish  in  Somerset- 
shire, England  (now  called  Queen's 
Camel),  where  King  Arthur  is  said 
to  have  held  his  court,  and  where  the 
vast  intrenchments  of  an  ancient 
town  or  station  —  called  by  the  in- 
habitants "King  Arthur's  "^  Palace  " 
—  are  still  to  be  seen.  It  is  some- 
times erroneously  identified  with 
Winchester.  Shakespeare  alludes  to 
Camelot  as  being  famous  for  a  breed 
of  geese. 

Gnose.  if  once  I  had  thee  upon  Sarum  plain, 
I  'd  drive  thee  cackling  home  to  Camelot. 

Lear. 

Ca-me'nse.  (Rom.  Myih.)  Prophetic 
nympbs,  of  whom  Egeria  was  the 
niost  celebrated.  The  Roman  poets 
often  apply  the  name  to  the  INIuses. 
[Written  also,  but  improperly,  C  a- 
ni  oe  n  a^] 

Ca-mina.  A  virgin  queen  of  tho 
Volscians,  famous  for  her  fleetness 
of  foot  and  her  grace.  She  assisted 
Turnus  in  bis  war  against  vEneas, 
and  signalized  herself  by  undaunted 
brav^erv. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  ace  pp.  xiv-xxxil- 
5 


CAN 


66 


CAP 


flS^  "The  first  female  warrior  is  the 
Oauiilla  of  N'irfjil."  Dr.  Johnson. 

"When  ^Vjax  strives  sunie  rock's  vast  weight 

tt>  tliniw, 
The  liiu',  too,  labors,  and  the  words  move 

slow. 
Not  so  wlioii  swift  Cdiiiilld  scours  the  plain, 
I'lies  o'ur  the  uii bunding  corn,  or  skims  along 

tlic  main.  I'opc. 

Candide  iku"Mud',  G2).  Tlie  hero  of 
Voltaire  s  celebrated  novel  of  the 
same  name,  in  which  he  collects  to- 
gether the  most  dreadful  misfortunes, 
and  heaps  them  ujujii  the  head  of  a 
single  individual,  with  the  intention, 
probably,  of  inculcating  a  2)lulosoph- 
jcal  inditteivnce  to  tlie  disasters  and 
disappomtments  and  sorrows  which 
inevitably  beset  human  life. 

The  boy-autlior  [Bcckford]  appears  already 
to  have  rubbed  all  the  bloom  off  his  heart; 
and,  in  the  midst  of  his  dazzling  genius,  one 
tremble^!  to  tliink  that  a  stripling  of  years  so 
ttiuler  siiould  have  attained  the  cool  cynicism 
of  a  Camliile.  Loud.  Qu.  liev. 

Candor,  Mrs.  A  noted  slanderer  hi 
Sheridan's  "  School  for  Scandal." 

a^  •'  The  name  of  '  IMrs.  Cmidor  '  has 
become  one  of  those  formidable  by-words 
which  Ixave  more  power  in  putting  folly 
And  ill-nature  out  of  countenance  than 
whole  volumes  of  the  wisest  remonstrance 
and  reasoning."  T.  Moore. 

His  [Sterne's]  friends,  .  .  .  -wrote  to  him  of 
the  rumor  [that  he  had  accepted  a  bribe],  and 
of  how  the  Yorkshire  J/rs.  Cawlors  were  cir- 
culating that  he  liad  furnished  all  the  details 
of  that  complacent  sketch.    I'ercy  Fitzfjerald. 

CS-nid'i-a.  A  sorceress  often  men- 
tioned by  Horace.  She  used  wax 
figures  in  working  her  spells  and  en- 
chantments, and,  by  her  conjurations, 
she  made  the  moon  descend  from 
the  heavens. 

The  savor  Ig  sweet,  but  it  hath  been  cooked 
by  a  Ciini'/ia  or  an  Erichtho.        .Sir  If.  .'^cott. 

Can-nucks'.  A  nickname  applied  to 
Canailians  hy  people  in  the  United 
States.  [Written  al.so  C  u  n  n  u  c  k  s.] 

Ca-no'pus,  [Gr.  Kai'-.tTro?.]  (Gr.  (f 
Jiom.  .Mijth.)  The  pilot  of  Menelaus, 
killed  in  EgA'pt  by  the  bite  of  a 
poisonous  serpent,  when  returning 
from  Troy.  lie  was  buried  by  Men- 
elaus  on  the  site  of  the  town  of 
Canopus,  which  derived  its  name 
from  him.  According  to  some  ac- 
counts, Canopus  was  worshiped  in 
Egypt  as  a  divine  being,  and  was 
represented  in  the  shape  of  a  jar  Avith 
small  feet,   a  thin   neck,   a   swollen 


body,  and  a  round  back.     [Written 
also  ( '  a  n  o  b  u  s  .J 

Capability  Brown.  Launcelot  Brown, 
a  famous  English  gardener  of  the 
last  century;  —  so  called  from  his 
constant  use  of  the  word  ''  capabil- 
ity," as  well  as  on  account  of  his 
genius  for  making  sterile  or  naked 
grounds  fruitful  and  beautiful. 

Tliere  is  a  very  lar;,'o  artificial  lake  [at  Blen- 
heunj  which  was  created  by  (  npuhilHyliroii-n, 
and  lills  the  basm  that  he  scooped  for  it,  just 
as  if  Nature  had  jxiured  these  broad  watero 
into  one  of  her  own  valleys.  Jluuthoi-ne. 

Cap'$-neus.  [Gr.  Kawavev<:.]  (Gr. 
Myth.)  One  of  the  seven  heroes 
wh.o  marched  ft-om  Argos  against 
Thebes.  He  was  killed  with  a  thun- 
der-bolt by  .Jupiter  for  impiously  say- 
ing that  not  even  the  hre  of  .Jupiter 
should  prevent  him  from  scaling  the 
walls  of  the  city.     See  Evadne. 

Cape  of  Storms.  See  Stokmy  Cape. 

Capitan  (k.t^pe'to"',  02).  A  boastful, 
swaggering,  cowardly  fellow,  who 
figured  in  almost  all  the  Erench 
farces  and  comedies  previous  to  the 
time  of  Moliere. 

Caps  and  Hats.  See  Hats  axd 
Caps. 

Captain,  The  Black.  See  Black 
Captain,  The. 

Captain  Loys.  [Fr.  Le  Cnpitaine 
Loy.'i.]  A  sobriquet  given,  by  her 
contemporaries,  to  Louise  Labe  ( J526- 
1566),  who,  in  early  life,  embraced 
the  profession  of  arms,  and  gave  re- 
peated proofs  of  the  greatest  valor. 

Captain  Ri^ht.  A  tictitious  com- 
mander—  like  the  Captain  Bock  of 
more  recent  times  —  whom  the  peas- 
ants in  the  south  of  Ireland,  in  the 
last  century,  were  SAVorn  to  obey. 

Captain  Rock.  The  fictitious  name 
of  a  leader  of  Irish  insurgents  about 
the  year  1822.  Avho  appeared  contin- 
ually in  large  masses,  among  the  hills 
and  valleys,  and  might,  at  almost 
any  time  of  night,  be  met  with  in 
the  highways.  They  were  said  to  be 
under  the  command  of  a  Captain,  or 
General,  Bock,  and  all  the  lawless 
notices  they  issued  were  signed  in 
his  name.  The  term  is  supposed  t</ 
have  been  a  common  imai^rinarv  title 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciatlon,"  with  the  acconipaQying  Explanation^ 


CAP 


67 


CAR 


adopted  by  the  chief  confederates, — 
whose  identity  was  never  established. 

Cap'u-let,  The  head  of  a  noble  house 
o  ■  Verona,  in  Siiakespeare  s  tra^udy 
of  "  Romeo  and  Juliet,"  — hostdc  to 
tli(^  house  of  Montai^ue.  lie  is  rcp- 
ri'sented  as  a  jovial,  testy  old  man, 
self- willed,  violent,  and   tyrannical. 

Cap'u-let,  Lady.  Wife  of  Capulet, 
in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of"  Koineo 
and  .luUet." 

JSk^  "  Then  Lady  Capulet  comes  sweep- 
ing by  with  her  train  of  velvet,  her  black 
liood,  lier  tan,  and  her  rosary,  —  the  very 
bfau-idfal  of -A  proud  Italian  matron  of 
the  fifteenth  century,  wuose  oiler  to  poi- 
son llonieo  in  revenge  for  tlie  death  of 
Tybalt  stamps  her  with  one  very  char- 
acteristic trait  of  the  age  and  country. 
Yet  she  loves  her  daughter  ;  and  there  is 
a  touch  of  remorseful  tenderness  in  her 
lamentation  over  her  vvliich  adds  to  our 
impression  of  the  timid  softness  of  Juliet 
and  the  harsh  subjection  in  which  she 
has  been  kept."  Mrs.  Jameson. 

4®=- The  Capulets  and  Montagues  (  Cap- 
elletti  and  Montfcciii,  or  Montico'i)  were 
two  rival  houses  of  Verona  in  the  latter 
part  of  the  thirteenth  ami  the  early  part 
of  the  fourteenth  centuries.  The  familiar 
expression,  '•  tiie  tomb  of  the  Capulets," 
does  not  occur  in  Shakespeare.  It  has  not 
been  found  in  any  author  previous  to 
Burke,  and  probably  originated  with  him. 
In  a  letter  to  Matthew  Smith,  he  says,  "  [ 
would  rather  sleep  in  the  corner  of  a  lit- 
tle country  church-yard  than  iu  Uie  tomb 
ofatl  the  Capulets.''' 

Car'a-bas,  Marquis  of.  [Fr.  Mar- 
quis (It  C'li-dJj'is,  mar'ke'  du  ks/ra'- 
ba'].  A  fanciful  title  employed  to 
designate  a  man  who  possesses,  or 
makes  a  boast  of  possessing,  large 
estates;  a  feudal  lord;  or,  in  general, 
any  pompous  and  purse-proud  in- 
dividual. The  name  occurs  in  the 
nursery  tale,  "  Puss  in  Boots,"  and 
Beranger  has  adopted  it  as  the  title 
of  one  of  his  most  popidar  lyrics. 
See  Pus.s  in  Boots. 

"  See  this  old  marquis  treating;  us 

Aa  if  a  conquered  race: 
His  raw-boned  steed  has  brought  him  back 

From  distant  hiding-place. 
With  saber  brandished  o'er  his  head 

That  never  dealt  a  blow. 
The  noble  mortal  marches  on, 

And  seeks  his  old  chateau. 
Hats  off,  bats  off!  near  and  far, 
Bow  to  the  Marquis  qC  Carahii^." 

Bdranger,  TrartM. 


The  States  General  assembled  May  1, 17891 
The  dek'tjatt's  of  the  poor  were  to  meet  under 
the  same  roof  with  tlie  titled  aristocrats  who 
had  trampled  on  their  social  rij;hts  and  do» 
niestic  att'cctions  so  long',  with  the  niilered 
loids  who  had  cxtractcU  Uieir  last  slieaves  of 
corn.  Tlie  opponents  sat  face  to  face  —  the 
piilc,  thoii,i;litliil,  and  emaciated  face  of  the 
butferiu.y  and  rcvciif;efiil  tici:'<~(tut,  the  bloats 
ed,  luiiidsomc,  and  contemptuous  I'aee  of  the 
hisrb-born  bishop  and  i)olislie(l  duke.  They 
must  have  looked  ateach  other  with  strangely 
ominous  eyes  when  they  met  for  the  first 
time,  and  Jacques  Bonhomme  examined  the 
Marquisde  Caruf)as  acrosa  the  gulf  of  so  many 
huudi-ed  years.  Jiev.  J.  White. 

In  Vivian  Grey,  his  [Disraeli's]  views  seemed 
bounded  by  a  desire  to  find  a  Marquix  <le 
Curuhas.  Smiles. 

Car'a-doc.  A  knight  of  the  Kound 
Table,  distinguished  for  his  valor, 
but  yet  more  as  the  husband  of  a 
chaste  and  constant  lady,  the  only 
dame  ni  Queen  Giiiuever's  train 
who  could  wear  a  certain  mantle  de- 
.signed  to  prove  matrimonial  fidelity. 
He  was  surnamed  Brief-  Bras,  or 
"  Shrunken -Arm,"  a  Norman  corrup- 
tion oiFriech-Fras,  or  "Strong-Arm." 
To  explain  the  reason  of  the  former 
epithet,  the  later  romancers  ieigned 
that  a  wicked  enchanter  caused  a 
sequent  to  fasten  on  Caradoc's  arm, 
and  suck  his  fiesh  and  blood,  and 
that  no  human  power  was  able  to  as- 
suage his  pain,  or  remove  the  reptile. 
Caradoc  is  the  hero  of  an  old  ballad 
entitled  "  The  Boy  and  the  Mantle." 

Car'a-this.  The  mother  of  the  Caliph 
Vathek,  in  Beckford's  tale  of  this 
name;  represented  as  an  adept  in 
judicial  astrology  and  magic. 

Caxderdo  {Sp.  jyrun.  kaf-da'ne-o).  A 
distracted  lover  —  the  dupe  of  a  per- 
fidious friend  —  whose  adventures 
form  an  episode  in  the  history  of 
"  Don  Quixote." 

Car'du-el  (6).  A  name  given,  in  the 
old  romances  al)out  Arthur  and  his 
knights,  to  the  city  of  Carlisle. 

Car'ker,  Mr.  A  plausible  villain  in 
Dickens's  "  Dombey  and  Son." 

Carlo  Khan.  A  nickname  given  to 
Charles  James  Fox  (l~-i9-18JG),  on 
account  of  a  bill  which  he  brought 
into  Parliament,  in  1783,  for  a  new 
regidation  of  the  East  Indies,  from 
the  supposition  that  he  aimed  to 
establish  a  dictatorship  in  his  own 
person. 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  x\v-xxxii<. 


CAR 


68 


CAS 


Carlyle,  Jupiter.  See  Jutitkr  Cak- 

LYLE. 

Carmilhan.    See  Klabotermann. 

Car'pi-o,  Ber-nar'do  del.  A  very 
ancient  mythical,  or  senii-inytliic;il, 
licru  ul'  Christian  Sixain,  who  signal- 
ized hiinsch',  ciiit'tly  in  the  Mourish 
anny,  by  his  chivah'ous  deeds,  lie 
is  said  to  have  been  an  illei;itimate 
son  of  Don  Sancho,  Count  of  Sal- 
dafia,  and  of  Doila  Ximena,  a  sister 
of  King  Alfonso,  surnamed  The 
Chaste.  lie  is  a  favorite  hero  in  the 
old  Spanish  romances  and  l>alhuls,  in 
which  the  honor  is  claimed  for  him 
of  slaying  the  famous  Orlando,  or 
Roland,  on  the  fatal  field  of  Ronces- 
valles. 

Car-ras'co,  Samson.  [Sp.  Sanson 
Can-((sc(),  san-son'  kar-rSs'ko.]  A 
waggish  bachelor  of  Salamanca  who 
figures  in  Cervantes's  romance,  "Don 
Quixote." 

He  rnay  perhaps  boast  of  arresting  the  gen- 
eral attention,  in  tlie  same  manner  as  the 
bachelor  .'^(inison  Corrusco,  of  fixing  the 
weather-cock  La  Giralda  of  Seville  for  weeks, 
months,  or  years,  that  is,  for  as  long  as  the 
wind  shall  uniformly  blow  from  one  quarter. 
Sir  JV.  Scott. 

Car-taph'i-lus.  See  Jew,  The  Wan- 
dering. 

Casella  (ka-zel'la).  The  name  of  a 
musician  and  old  friend  of  Dante, 
immortalized  by  him  in  his  poem 
entitled  "La  Divina  Connnedia." 
Dante,  on  his  arrival  in  Purgatory, 
sees  a  vessel  approaching  freighted 
with  souls,  imder  the  conduct  of  an 
angel,  to  be  cleansed  from  their 
sins,  and  made  fit  for  Paradise. 
When  they  are  disembarked,  the 
poet  recognizes  in  the  crowd  his  old 
friend  Casella.  In  the  course  of  an 
affectionate  interview,  the  poet  re- 
quests a  soothing  air,  and  Casella 
sings,  with  enchanting  sweetness, 
Dante's  second  canzone. 

Dante  shall  give  fame  leave  to  set  thee  higher 
Than  his  CiisiUd,  whom  he  wooed  to  sing, 
Met  in  the  milder  shades  of  Purgatory. 

Hilton. 

Cas'i-mere.  A  Polish  emigrant  in 
"  The  Rovers,  or  The  Double  Ar- 
rangement," in  the  poetrj'  of  the 
"  Anti-Jacobin."     See  Beefington, 

MiLOR. 


Cas-san'dra.  [Or.  Karrrrai/Spa.]  {Gr. 
tj-  Jidin.  Mi/lh.)  A  beautiful  daugh- 
ter of  Priam  and  Hecuba.  Accord- 
ing to  the  poets,  she  possessed  the 
gift  of  proj)heey,  but  none  believed 
her  j)re(Uctions. 

Cassim  Baba.    See  Baba,  Cassim. 

Cas'si-o  (kash'I-o).  Lieutemmt  of 
Othello,  and  a  tool  of  lago,  in  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of  "  Otliello."  ' 

Indeed,  I  have  so  poor  a  brain  mvself,  when 
I  impose  upon  it  the  least  burden  heyond  myi 
usual  three  glasses,  that  I  have,  only,  like 
honest  <'Vjs.s/!5,  a  very  vague  recollection  of 
the  confusion  of  last  night.  Sir  W.  Scott, 

Cas-si'o-pe,  o?-  Cas'si-o-pe'i-a  (20). 

[Gr.  KacrcriOTrrj,    Kaaaioneia.j      (  ''/'.   (J" 

Rom.  Myllt.)  The  wife  of  Cepheus, 
and  the  mother  of  Andromache.  She 
was  an  Ethiopian  by  birth,  and  was 
so  proud  of  her  beauty  that  she  even 
exalted  it  above  that  of  the  sea- 
nymphs,  and  thus  incurred  their  en- 
mity. After  death  she  was  placed 
among  the  stars,  forming  the  constel- 
lation popularly  known  as  "  The 
Lady  in  her  Chair."  [Written  also 
C  a  s  s  i  e  p  e  i  a.] 

That  starred  Ethiop  queen  that  strove 
To  set  her  beauty's  praise  above 
The  sea-nymphs,  and  their  powers  oflFended. 

Milton. 

Cas'ta-ly.  A  poetical  form  of  Cnstnlia, 
the  name  of  a  spring  at  the  toot  of 
Mt.  Parnassus,  sacred  to  Apollo  and 
the  Muses.  The  poets  feigned  that 
its  waters  filled  the  mind  of  those 
Avho  drank  of  it  with  poetic  inspira- 
tion. 

Cas-ta'ra.  [Probably  from  Lat.  co.s^a, 
fern,  of  cri.'iiuK,  chaste ;  perhaps  castd 
ara,  sacred  altar.]  A  poetical  name 
under  which  William  Habington 
(1(505-1054)  celebrated  the  praises 
of  Lucia,  daughter  of  the  first  Lord 
Powis,  the  lady  whom  he  married. 

Castle,  Doubting.  See  Doubting 
Castle. 

Castle  of  Indolence.  The  title  of  a 
poem  by  Thomson,  and  the  name  of 
a  castle  described  in  it  as  situated  in 
a  pleasing  land  of  drowsiness,  where 
every  sense  was  steeped  in  the  most 
luxurious  and  enervating  delights. 
The  owner  of  tliLs  castle  was  a  pow- 
erful enchanter,  who  sought  by  tho 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


CAS 


69 


CAU 


exercise  of  magical  arts  to  entice  un- 
wary passers-by  witiiiii  tiie  gate,  that 
lie  might  deprive  them  of  their 
nuuily  strength,  talie  away  all  their 
high  hopes  and  aims,  and  engage 
them  in  a  constant  round  of  sensual 
amusements. 

The  effect  of  the  climate,  the  air,  the  se- 
renity :iml  sweetness  of  the  place,  is  almost  as 
seductive  as  that  of  the  C'ustle  of  Indokncc. 

W.  Irving. 

Castles  in  Spain.     See  Chateaux 

EN    Esl'AGNE. 

Castlewood,  Beatrix.  The  heroine 
of  Thackeray's  novel  of  "  Esmond;  " 
"  perhaps  the  finest  picture  of  splen- 
did, lustrous  physical  beauty  ever 
given  to  the  world." 

Cas'tor.    [Gr.   Kaa-raip.]    ( Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Mijili.)  A  son  of  Leda,  and  a  brother 
of  Pollux,  or  Polydeuces.     According 
to  some  writers,  Ihey  were  twins,  and 
Jupiter  was  their  father;  others  as- 
sert that  the}^  were  the  sons  of  Tyn- 
dareus,  king  of  Lacedi^mon ;  others, 
again,  say  that  Pollux  was  the  son  of 
Jupiter,   and   Castor   of  Tyndareus. 
Kence   Pollux  was  immortal,  while 
Castor  was  subject  to  old  age  and 
death,  like  other  men.    But  such  was 
the    mutual    atlection    of    the    two 
brothers,   that  Jupiter  granted    the 
pra^^er  of  Pollux,  and  consented  that 
they  should  share  each  other's  lot,  by 
living,  alternately,  one  day  in  the  un- 
der-world, and  the  next  in   heaven. 
According  to  a  different  form  of  the 
story,  he  rewarded  their  mutual  at- 
tachment by  placing  them  among  the 
stars  as  Gemini.^  or  "  The  Twins."  the 
third    constellation     of    the   zodiac. 
[Castor   and    Pollux    are   sometimes 
called  the  Dioscuri.^  or  "  Sons  of  Jove." 
and  TyndaridcB,  or  "  Sons  of  Tynda- 
reus."] 

Ca-thay',  An  old  name  for  China, 
said  to  have  been  introduced  into 
Europe  by  ^larco  Polo,  the  celebrat- 
ed Venetian  traveler.  It  is  corrupted 
from  the  Tartar  appellation  K/iitni 
(ke-tiO,  that  is,  the  country  of  the 
Khitans,  who  occupied  the  northern 
portions  of  the  empire  at  the  period 
of  the  Mongol  invasion.  The  hero- 
ine of  Bojardo's  "  Orlando  Innamo- 


rato,"  the  beautiful  Angelica,  was  a 
princess  of  Cathay. 

Through  the  shadow  of  the  plobe  we  swoop 

into  the  younger  day  ; 
Better  fifty  years  of  Europe  than  a  cycle  of 

Cdthaij.  Tennyson. 

Catholic  Majesty.  A  title  first  given 
in  ~'i\)  bv  Gregory  III.  to  Alfonso 
I.  of  Spain,  who  was  thereu|)on  sur- 
named  The  Catholic.  The  title  was 
also  given  to  Ferdinand  V.,  in  1474. 
It  was  bestowed  upon  Ferdinand  and 
his  queen  by  Innocent  VIII.,  on  ac- 
count of  their  zeal  for  the  Roman 
Catholic  religion,  and  their  establish- 
ment of  the  Inquisition  in  Spain. 

Ca'to-Street  Conspiracy.  {Eng. 
Hid.)  A  plot  of  a  gang  of  low  and 
desperate  politicians  to  murder  the 
ministers  of  the  crown  at  a  cabinet- 
dinner  at  Lord  Harrowby's,  with  the 
view  of  raising  an  insurrection  in 
London,  and  overthrowing  the  gov- 
ernment. The  conspirators  were  ar- 
rested in  Cato  Street,  Feb.  23,  1820, 
and  Thistlewood  —  one  of  the  ring- 
leaders—  and  four  of  his  chief  as- 
sociates, having  been  convicted  of 
treason,  were  executed  May  1. 

Caudle,  Mrs.  Margaret.  The  feigned 
author  of  a  series  of  "  Curtain  Lec- 
tures" delivered  in  the  course  of 
thirty  years,  between  eleven  at  night 
and  seven  in  the  morning,  to  her 
husband,  Mr.  Job  Caudle,  "one  of 
the  few  men  whom  Nature,  in  her 
casual  bounty  to  women,  sends  into 
the  world  as  patient  listeners."  The 
real  author  of  these  humorous  and 
famous  lectures  Avas  Douglas  Jerrold. 

Violante  was  indeed  a  bewitching  child,  — 
a  child  to  whom  I  defy  MrK.  CawUe  herself 
(immortnl  3lrs.  Caudle')  to  have  been  a  harsh 
step-mother.  Sir  E.  JJidwer  Lytton. 

Cau'line,  Sir.  The  hero  of  an  an- 
cient English  ballad  of  the  same 
name,  preserved  in  Percy's  "  Ke- 
liques." 

Cau'nus.     [Gr.   KaOi'o?.]      See   Byb- 

LIS. 

Caustic,  Christopher.  A  pseudo- 
nvm  adopted  bv  Thomas  Green  Fes- 
senden  (1771-1837)  in  his  Hudibras- 
tic  poem  called  "  Ten-ible  Tractora- 
tion." 
'  Caustic,  Colonel.    A  prominent  char- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxu. 


CAU 


70 


CEN 


acter  in  "  The  Lounger,"  sketched 
by  Henry  Mackenzie.  He  is  ''  a  line 
gentlcniiin  of  the  last  age,  somewhat 
severe  in  iiis  remarks  upon  the  pres- 
ent." 
Cautionary  Towns.  ( Ivna.  Hist. )  A 
name  given  to  the  towns  of  Briel, 
l-lu>hing,  llananckins,  anci  W'al- 
cheren,  whiih  were  placed,  in  158.5, 
in  Queen  Klizabetlfs  possession  as 
security  for  the  payment  of  troops 
furnished  l)y  iier  to  the  Xetherlands. 
Only  one  third  ot  the  sum  was  re- 
funded; but  the  Cautionary  Towns 
Avere,  notwithstanding,  delivered  up, 
July  14,  IGKj,  a  treaty  for  this  purpose 
having  been  signed  May  22. 

Cave  of  Mam'mSn.  The  abode  of 
the  god  of  riches,  described  in  the 
seventh  canto  of  the  second  book  of 
Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen." 

4^  "  By  what  subtle  art  of  tracing  the 
mental  processes  it  is  effected,  we  are  not 
philosophers  enout^h  to  explain  ;  but  in 
that  wonderful  episode  of  the  C.ive  of 
Mammon,  in  which  the  Money  God  ap- 
pears first  in  the  lowest  form  of  a  miser, 
is  then  a  worker  of  metals,  and  becomes 
the  god  of  all  ttie  treasures  of  the  world, 
and  has  a  daugliter,  Ambition,  before 
whom  all  the  world  kneels  for  favors,  — 
with  the  Hesperian  fruit,  the  waters  of 
Tantalus,  with  Pilate  washing  his  hands 
Taiuly,  but  not  impertinently,  in  the 
same  stream,  —  that  we  should  be  at  one 
moment  in  the  cave  of  an  old  hoarder  of 
treasures,  at  the  next  at  the  forge  of  the 
Cyclops,  in  a  palace  and  yet  in  hell,  all 
at  once,  with  the  shifting  mutations  of 
the  most  rambling  dream,  and  our  judg- 
ment yet  all  the  time  awake,  and  neither 
able  nor  willing  to  detect  the  fallacy,  is 
a  proof  of  that  hidden  sanity  which  still 
guides  the  poet  in  the  wildest  seeming 
aberrations."  Charles  Lamb. 

Cave  of  Montesinos.     See  Moxte- 

SINOS. 

Ce'crops.  [Gr.  KeVpwi^.]  {Gr.  Myth.) 
The  first  king  of  Attica,  described  as 
an  autochthon,  the  upper  part  of 
Avhose  body  was  human,  while  the 
lower  part  was  that  of  a  dragon.  He 
is  said  to  have  instituted  marriage, 
altars,  and  sacrifices,  and  to  have  in- 
troduced agriculture,  navigation,  and 
commerce. 

Cfed'ric.     A  Saxon  thane,  of  Rother- 


wood,  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of 
"  ivanhoe." 
Cel'a-d6n.  1.  The  hero  of  an  epi^ 
sode  in  the  poem  of  "  Summer,"  in 
Thomson's  "  Seasons;  "  in  love  with 
Amelia,  who  is  described  as  having 
been  killed  in  his  arras  by  a  strokw 
of  lightning. 

2.  A  poetical  name  for  any  sw,<uu, 
or  rustic  lover. 

Had  we  been  the  Celadon  and  Chloe  of  a 
country  viUa^TL-,  he  could  not  liave  re;:^arded 
us  as  more  equal,  so  far  us  tlie  world  wunt. 

air  E.  Buliver  Lytton. 

Ce-lae'no.  [Gr.  KeAaii'ui.]  (  Gr.  tf-  Rom. 
Myth.)  One  of  the  Harpies.  See 
Hakpies. 

Celestial  City.  In  Bunyan's  "  Pil- 
grim's Progress,"  the  city  toward 
which  Christian  makes  his  pilgrim- 
age; —  the  heavenly  Jerusalem, 
whose  splendors  are  portrayed  in  the 
Apocalypse. 

Celestial  Empire.  A  name  often 
used,  in  Europe  and  America,  as  a 
popular  designation  of  China.  It  is 
derived,  according  to  Williams,  from 
the  Chinese  words  Titn  Chun,  that 
is,  Heavenly  Dynasty,  meaning  the 
kingdom  ruled  over  by  the  dynasty 
appointed  by  Heaven. 

Celia.  1.  Daughter  of  Frederick,  the 
usurping  duke,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Aa 
You  Like  It." 

2.  The  name  given  by  Thomas 
Carew,  an  English  poet  of  the  sev- 
enteenth century,  to  his  lady-love, 
whose  real  name  is  unknown. 

C61imene  (sS'le'raan',  31,10.3).  1.  A 
misanthrope  in  Moliere's  "  Les 
Precieuses  Ridicules." 

2.  A  coquette  in  Moliere's  "  Misan- 
thrope," —  an  admirable  jwrtrait. 

Cen'taurs.  [Lat.  Centauri,  Gr. 
Kei'Tavpoi,  bull-killers.]  (  Gv.  if  Rom. 
Myth.)  According  to  the  earliest  ac- 
counts, a  rude  and  savage  people 
of  Thessaly,  afterward  described  as 
monsters  half  man  and  half  horse, 
and  particularly  celebrated  for  theii 
contest  with  the  Lapithae.  See 
Lapith.e. 

Century  "White.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  John  White  (1500-1645),    a  bar- 


•^  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation* 


CEP 


71 


CHE 


rister  and  political  writer  of  the  time 
of  the  English  ("dinnionwealth,  from 
his  principal  piil)lication,  "  Tliu  First 
Century  of  iScanclaluus  Malignant 
Priests,  Made  and  Admitted  into 
Benelices  by  the  I'relates,"  &e. 

Ceph'a-lus.  [Gr.  Ke'(f>aAo?.]  {Gr.  ^ 
Rom.  Myth.)  The  husband  of  Pro- 
cris.     See  Pkockis. 

Ce'pheus  (-28).  [Gr.  Kr,(|)ei;5.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rinn.  Mijth.)  1.  One  of  the  Argo- 
nauts. 

2.  King  of  Ethiopia,  husband  of 
Cassiopeia,  and  tather  of  Andromeda, 

Cer'be-rus  (4).  [Gr.  Kep^epos-]  {Gr.cf 
Rum.  Mytli.)  A  dog  with  three  heads, 
a  serpent's  tail,  and  a  snaky  mane, 
who  guarded  the  portal  of  Hades, 
into  which  he  admitted  the  shades, 
but  from  which  he  never  let  them  out 
again.  Hercules  overcame  him,  and 
brought  him  away. 

Ce'res(9).  {Gr.  cf  Rom.  Myth.)  The 
daughter  of  Saturn  and  Ops,  sister  of 
Jupiter,  Pluto,  Neptune,  Juno,  and 
Vesta,  mother  of  Proserpine,  and 
goddess  of  corn,  harvest,  and  Howers. 
She  is  usually  represented  as  riding 
in  a  chariot  drawn  b}'  dragons ;  with 
a  torch  or  a  basket  in  her  hand,  and 
crowned  with  poppies  or  ears  of  corn. 

CSr'I-mSn.  A  lord  of  Ephesus,  in 
Shakespeare's  "Pericles." 

Ce'yx.  [Gr.  Krii)^.]  {Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)     See  Alcyone. 

Chad'band,  The  Rev.  Mr.  A  char- 
acter in  Dickens's  "Bleak  House;" 
a  type  of  hypocritical  piety. 

plia-mont'.  One  of  the  dramatis per- 
sorxe  in  Otway's  tragedy  of  "  The 
Orphan." 

Why,  Heaven  love  you  !  I  would  as  soon 
Invitea  fii-e-branrt  into'my  stack-yard,  —  he's 
an  Almanzor,  a  Chamont.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Dhampion  of  the  Virgin.  A  title 
given  to  St.  Cyril  of  Alexandria.  See 
Doctor  of  the  Incakxation. 

Char'I-tes.  [Gr.  Xaptre?.]  (  Gr.  cf  Rom. 
"^  Myth.)    The  Graces.     See  Graces. 

Charlies.  A  sobriquet  given  to  the 
night-watchmen  of  London  before  the 
organization  of  the  police  force  by  Sir 


Robert  Peel  in  1829.  They  were  so 
called  from  King  Charles  I.,  who,  in 
1(U(),  extended  and  improved  the 
police  system  of  the  metropolis. 

Char'mi-an.  A  kind-hearted  but 
simple-minded  female  attendant  on 
Cleopatra,  in  Shakespeare's  play  of 
"Antony  and  Cleopatra." 

^ha'ron.  [Xapuir.]  ( Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  god  of  Hades,  son  of  Ere- 
bus and  Nox.  He  was  an  aged  and 
dirty  terry-man,  who  conducted  the 
souls  of  the  buried  dead  across  the 
river  Styx.     See  Styx, 

Cha-ryb'dis.  [Gr.  Xipu/SSis.]  {Gr. 
cj-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  ravenous  woman, 
turned  by  Ju])iter  into  a  dangerous 
gulf  or  whirlpool  on  the  coast  of 
Sicily,  opposite  to  Scylla,  on  the  coast 
of  Italy.     See  Scy^lla. 

Scylla  wept. 
And  chid  her  barking  waves  into  attention. 
And  fell  C'harybdis  murmured  soft  applause. 

Milton. 

Chateaux  en  Espagne  (sha'toz'  6a 
nes'ijan',  02,  78).  [Fr.,  castles  in 
Spain.]  Groundless  or  visionary 
projects;  a  French  phrase  sometimes 
used  in  English.  In  the  tifteenth 
centur}',  they  said,  in  the  same  sense, 
'■'■faii-e  dts  chateaux  en  Asie,''''  to  build 
castles  in  Asia. 

Chauvin  (sho'van',  62).  The  princi- 
pal character  in  Scribe's  "  Soldat  La- 
boureur;"  represented  as  a  veteran 
soldier  of  the  time  of  the  tirst  Empire, 
having  an  unbounded  admiration  of 
Napoleon,  and  a  blind  idolatry  of  all 
that  pertains  to  him. 

Cherubim,  Don.  See  Don  Cheru- 
bim. 

Chevalier  de  St.  George.  See  St. 
George,  Chevalier  de. 

Chev'y  Chase.  The  subject  and  the 
title  of  a  famous  old  English  ballad. 
The  event  which  is  commemorated 
is  probably  the  battle  of  Otterburn, 
which  happened  in  August,  1:388, 
and  is  declared  by  Froissart  to  have 
been  the  bravest  and  most  chivalroiis 
which  was  fought  in  his  day ;  but  it 
is  impossible  to  reconcile  the  inci- 
dents of  the  poem  with  historj-. 

4@=  "  According  to  the  ballad,  Percy- 
vowed  that  he  would  enter  Scotland,  and 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  voids  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxi* 


CHI 


72 


CHI 


take  his  pleasure  for  three  days  in  the 
woods  of  his  rival,  and  slay  the  deer  there- 
in at  will.  Douglas,  wlicn  he  heard  the 
vaunt,  exclaimed  :  '  Tell  him  he  will  find 
one  day  more  than  enough.'  Accordingly, 
at  tlie  time  of  the  liay-harvest,  I'ercy, 
with  stag  -  hounds  and  archers,  passed 
into  the  domains  of  his  foe,  and  slew  a 
'  hundred  fallow-deer  and  harts  of  grice.' 
When  the  English  liad  hastily  cooked 
their  game,  and  weie  about  to  retire, 
Earl  Douglas,  clad  in  armor  and  heading 
his  Scottisii  peers,  came  on  the  scene. 
Haughty  challenge  and  defiance  passed 
between  the  potentates,  and  tne  battle 
joined.  In  the  center  of  the  fray  the  two 
leaders  met.  '  Yield  thee,  Percy  I '  cried 
Douglas.  'I  will  ^ield  to  no  Scot  that 
was  ever  born  of  woman  I  '  cried  Percy. 
During  this  colloquy,  an  English  arrow 
struck  Douglas  to  the  heart.  '  Fight  on, 
my  merry  men  I  '  cried  he,  as  he  died. 
Percy,  with  all  the  chivalrous  feeling  of 
his  race,  took  the  dead  man  hy  the  hand, 
and  vowed  that  he  would  liave  given  all 
his  lands  to  save  him,  for  a  braver  knight 
never  fell  b^'  such  a  chance.  Sir  Hugh 
Montgomery,  having  seen  the  fall  of 
Douglas,  chipped  spurs  to  his  horse, 
dashed  on  Percy,  and  struck  his  spear 
through  his  body  a  long  cloth-yard  and 
more.  Although  the  leaders  on  both 
sides  had  fiUen,  the  battle,  which  had 
begun  at  break  of  day,  continued  till  the 
ringing  of  the  curfew -bell.  When  the 
battle  ended,  representatives  of  every  no- 
ble tamily  on  either  side  of  the  border 
lay  on  the  bloody  greensward." 

Chambers. 

jgSg^  "  T  never  heard  the  old  song  of 

Percy  and  Douglas,  that  I  found  not  my 

heart  moved  more  than  with  a  trumpet." 

Sir  Philip  Sidney. 

Chicaneau  (she'ka'no').  A  litigious 
tradesman  in  Kacine's  comedy,  "  Les 
Plaideurs." 

Chicard  (she-'kai-',  64).  [From  the  orig- 
inator, a  M.  Chicard.]  The  Harlequin 
of  the  modern  French  carnival.  His 
costume  is  composed  of  the  most 
various  and  incongruous  articles,  but 
generally  includes  a  helmet,  a  pos- 
tilion's wig,  a  tlannei  shirt,  and 
cavalry  tnnisers.  His  arms  ai-e  half 
bare,  and  are  thrust  into  butt"  gloves 
■with  large  cufts. 

Chichevache  (shesh'vash').  [Fr., 
said  to  signify  literally,  "  melancholy, 
or  sour  visage."]  "  [Written  also 
C  h  i  c  h  e  f  a  c  h  e       and       Chinch- 


V  a  c  li  e  .]  A  fabulous  monster. 
Chaucer  alludes  to  it  near  the  cl(».se  of 
"  The  Clerkes  Tale."  'Ihe  following 
is  Tyrwhitfs  note  on  the  place:  — 

Hir  '■  This  excellent  reading  is  restored 
upon  the  authf)rity  of  the  best  MSS.  in- 
st*!ad  of  the  common  one,  Vhechivache. 
The  allusion  is  to  the  subject  of  an  old 
ballad,  which  is  stiil  preserved  in  MS. 
Harl.  2251.  fol.  270.  b.  It  is  a  kind  of 
pageant,  in  which  two  beasts  are  intro- 
duced, called  Bycorne  and  Chichevache. 
The  first  is  supposed  to  feed  upon  obe- 
dient husbands,  and  the  other  upon  pa- 
tient wives  ;  and  the  humor  of  the  piece 
consists  in  representing  Bycorne  as  pam- 
pered with  a  supertluity  of  food,  aud 
Chichevache  as  half  starved.'' 

Childe  Harold.  See  Harold.^ 
Childe. 

Childe  Rowland.  See  I\o^vLA^'D, 
Cnii.UE. 

Child  of  Hale.  A  name  often  given 
to  John  Middleton,  a  lamous  Knglish 
giant,  Avho  was  born  at  Hale,  in  Lan- 
cashire, in  1578.  His  height  was 
nine  feet  and  three  inches,  "  wanting 
but  six  inches,"  says  JJr.  Plott,  "  of 
the  size  of  Goliath." 

Children  in  the  "Wood.  Tavo  char- 
acters in  an  ancient  and  well-know.," 
ballad  entitled  "The  Children  in  tha 
AVood,  or  The  Norfolk  (ient.'s  Las* 
Will  and  Testament,"  which  is 
thought  by  some  to  be  a  disguised 
recital  of  the  alleged  murder  of  his 
nephews  by  Kichard  HI.  It  is  cer- 
tain that  the  ballad  corresponds  es- 
sentially Avitli  the  narrative  of  the 
chroniclers.  Addison  .'^ays  of  the 
ballad  referred  to,  that  it  is  "  one 
of  the  darling  songs  of  the  common 
people,  and  the  delight  of  most  Kng- 
lishmen  at  some  part  of  their  age." 
See  the  "  Spectator,"  Nos.  85  and 
179. 

Chi-mse'ra  (9).  [Gr.  Xt>aipa.]  {Gr. 
(/•  Ritin.  Slijtit.)  A  strange,  fire-breath- 
ing monster  of  Lycia,  killed  by  Bel- 
lerophon.     See  1>elli:h()1'IU»n. 

Chinaman,  John.  A  cant  or  popular 
name  for  the  Chinese.  The  earliest 
known  instance  of  its  use  is  in  "  A 
Letter  to  the  Conunittee  of  Manage- 
ment of  I  )rurv-Lane  Theater,  London, 
1819,"  p.  04.' 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunoiution,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


cm 


73 


CIIR 


Chi'ron  (9).      [Or.   Xeiptov.]     {Or.  ()• 
'^  Ji<im.  Jfi/tli.)     The  wisest  iuid  most 
famous    of  all   the    Centaurs;    noted 
for  his  skill  in  inusie,  medicine,  and 
huntiiiti;.     He  was  the  'nstnietor  of 
Achilles,  and  many  other  heroes  of 
Grecian   story.     Jupiter  placed    him 
amon}^  the  stars,  as  the  constellation 
S((f/itf.(U-ius,  or  "  The  Archer." 
Chlo'e.       Formerly   a   very   common 
*  name,  in  pastoral  poetry,  for  a  mis- 
tress or  sweetheart,  but  of  late  gen- 
erally appropriated  to  negresses  and 
spaniels, 
ghlo'ris    m.      [Gr.    XAa,pc?.]       (Gr. 
Jlt/t/i.)     The  wife  of  Zephyrns,  and 
the  goddess    of   flowers;    the    same 
with  the  Roman  Flora.     See  Flora. 
Chriemliild  (kreem^hilt),  or  Chriem- 
hilde  (kreem-hil'da).     The  heroine 
of  the  German  epic  poem,  the  "  Nibe- 
lungen  Lied,"  represented  as  a  wom- 
an of  the  rarest  grace  and  beauty, 
and  rich  beyond  conception.     By  the 
treacherous  murder  of  her  husband, 
she  becomes  changed  from  a  gentle 
and  loving  woman  into  a  perfect  fury 
of  revenge.  See  Bhuneiiild,  Hagen, 
Siegfried.    [Written  also  K  r  i  e  ra  - 
hilt.] 
Ch.ris'ta-bel.     1.  The  heroine  of  the 
^  old  romance   of   "  Sir  Eglamour  of 
Artois." 

2.  A  lady  in  the  ancient  ballad  of 
"  Sir  Cauline,"  the  daughter  of  a 
"  bonnye  kinge  "  in  Ireland. 

3.  A  lady  in  Coleridge's  poem  of 
the  same  name. 

Christian.  The  hero  of  Bunyan's 
si>iritual  romance,  "  The  Pilgrim's 
Progress."  This  celebrated  allegory 
describes  the  awakening  of  Chris- 
tian's spiritual  fears;  his  resolution 
to  depart  from  the  City  of  Destruc- 
tion, where  he  had  resided;  his  inef- 
fectual attempts  to  induce  his  wife  and 
family  and  neighbors  to  accompany 
him;  his  departure;  and  all  the  in- 
cidents, Avhether  of  a  discouraging  or 
a  comforting  nature,  which  befall 
him  on  his  journey,  until  he  arrives 
at  the  Celestial  City;  the  whole  l)eing 
designed  to  rejjresent  the  various  ex- 
periences, internal  and  external,  in 
the  life  of  a  real  Christian. 


"We  Boom  to  hiivo  fallen  ftmonff  the  ae- 
q\i;iiiitam-fs()f()iii-()l<l  friend  f'liriMi<m:  sonie- 
timi's  W(.'  iiu'L't  Mistiiist  and  'riiiudou.s,  some- 
tiiiu-s  Mr.  llatijiiMid  und  Mr.  l^dvulust,  and 
then  aj^aiu  Pruduucc,  Piety,  and  Chanty. 

Atacaulay. 

Chris'ti-an'a  (krist^i-an'ji).  The 
wife  of  (Jhristian,  in  Bunyan's  "Pil- 
grim's Progress,"  who  sets  out  with 
her  children  to  rejoin  her  husl)and  in 
the  Celestial  City,  under  the  guidance 
of  Mr.  Great -heart. 

One,  like  the  white  robes  seen  by  C/iriMiana, 
on  the  Delectable  Mountains,  is  protected 
from  inipurity  by  nn  inherent  virtue  ;  the 
other,  like  a  virgin  fortress,  is  secured  ngainsl 
assault  by  its  forbidding  frowu  and  its  terrible 
powers  of  resistance.  E.  G.  White. 

Christian  Ci9'e-ro.  A  name  con- 
ferred upon  Lucius  Coelius  Lactantius, 
an  eminent  Christian  author  of  the 
early  part  of  the  fourth  century,  on 
account  of  the  remarkable  purity  and 
eloquence  of  his  style. 

Christian  Sen'e-ca.  A  title  some- 
times given  to  .Toseph  Hall  (1574— 
1656),  Bishop  of  Norwich,  an  eminent 
divine,  highly  esteemed  as  a  moralist. 

Christian  Vir'gil.  A  title  given  to 
Marco  Girolamo  Vida  (140U-1566), 
one  of  the  most  learned  scholars  and 
most  elegant  Latin  writers  of  his 
time.  He  was  the  author  of  a  Latin 
poem  in  six  books,  on  the  life  of 
Christ,  the  "  Christias,"  which  is  as 
close  an  imitation  of  the  "^neid" 
as  the  great  dift'erence  in  the  nature 
of  the  subject  would  permit. 

ghris'tle  of  the  CUnt  HiU.  A  char- 
acter in  Scott's  novel  of  "  The  Mon- 
astery;" one  of  Julian  Avenel's  re- 
tainers. 

Christopher,  St.  See  St.  Christo- 
pher. 

Chroniclers,  The  Hhyming.  A 
series  of  writers  who  arose  in  England 
about  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  centu- 
ry, and  related  in  verse  the;  fal)ulous 
and  the  authentic  history  of  that  coun- 
try. The  most  celebrated  of  them 
Avere  Layamon,  Robert  of  Gloucester, 
and  Robert  de  Brunne. 

Chro-non'ho-ton-thol'o-ffos.  1.  -:\, 
pompous  character  in  a  burles(|ue 
tiagedy  of  the  same  name  by  Heniy 
Carev. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


CIIR 


74 


CIN 


2.  A  nickname  given  to  General 
John  Uuri^oyne  (d.  17!)2),  on  account 
of  an  inflated  address  which  he  de- 
livered to  the  American  Indians 
durin<;  the  war  of  the  Revolution. 

CJhrysalde  (kre'sald').  A  character 
in  Moliere's  '"  L'ficoledes  Femmes;  " 
a  friend  of  Arnolphe. 

Chrysale  (kre'sal').  An  honest,  sim- 
ple-minded, hen-pecked  tradesman, 
in  Moliere's  comedy,  "  Les  Femmes 
Siivantes." 

Chrys'i-or.  [Gr.  Xpuo-aajp.]  ( Or.  if 
Biiin.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Neptune  and 
]\Iedusa,  and  the  father  of  Geryon  by 
Callirrhoii. 

Cfiri/naor,  rising  out  of  the  sea, 

Showed  thus'jilorious  and  thus  emulous, 
Leaving  the  anns  of  Callirrhoe, 

For  ever  tender,  soft,  and  tremulous. 

Longfellow. 

gliry-se'is.  [Gr.  Xpuo-rji?.]  {Gr.  ^ 
Rom.  Myth.)  Daughter  of  Chryses, 
a  priest  of  Apollo.  She  Avas  famed 
for  her  beauty,  and  for  her  skill  in 
embroidery.  In  the  course  of  the 
Trojan  war,  she  Avas  taken  prisoner, 
and  given  to  Agamemnon,  who, 
however,  was  obliged  to  restore  her 
to  her  father,  in  order  to  stop  a  plague 
wdiich  Apollo  sent  into  the  Grecian 
camp  in  answer  to  the  prayer  of 
Chryses. 

Chuz'zle-wit,  Jonas.  A  character 
in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  ^lartin  Chuz- 
zlewit;"  distinguished  lor  his  mean 
brutality  and  small  tyranny. 

Cliuz'zle-wlt,  Martin.  The  hero  of 
Dickens's  novel  of  the  same  name. 

Ci9'e-ro  of  Germany.  [Lat.  Cicero 
(jermani(e.~\  A  title  given  to  .lohn 
III.,  margrave  and  elector  of  Bran- 
denburg (U55-14!ty). 

JS£n"  "  Nothing  struck  a  discerning  pub- 
lic like  the  talent  he  had  for  speaking  : 
spoke  '  four  honrs  at  a  stretch  in  Kaiser 
Max's  Diets,  in  elegantly  flowing  Latin,' 
■with  a  fair  share  of  meaning  too.  and  had 
bursts  of  parliamentary  eloquence  in  him 
that  were  astonishing  to  hear.  .  .  .  His 
bursts  of  parliamentary  eloquence,  once 
glorious  as  the  day,  procured  him  the 
name  of  ■  .Johannes  Cicero,'  and  that  is 
what  remains  of  them,  for  they  are  sunk 
now,  irretrievalde  he  and  they,  into  tlie 
belly  of  eternal  Night,  the  final  resting- 


place.  I  do  perceive,  of  much  Ciceronian 
ware  in  this  world."  Carlyle. 

Ci9'e-ro  of  the  Senate.  A  title 
popularly  given  to  George  Canning 
(1770-1827),  a  distinguished  British 
statesman,  and  a  very  eloquent 
orator. 

Ci9'e-ro'8  Mouth.  [Fr.  Ln  Bouche 
da  C'iccion.]  A  surname  given,  for 
his  elo(|uence,  to  l*hili])pe  Pot  (1428- 
1494),  prime  minister  of  Louis  XL 

Cid,  The.  [Sp.,  lord,  from  Arab. 
sei(L]  A  title  given  to  Don  Rodrigo 
Laynez,  a  Spanish  nobleman  of  tha 
eleventh  century. by  five  ^Moorish  gen- 
erals whom  he  had  vanquished.  The 
title  Avas  confirmed  by  his  king.  He 
Avas  also  knoAvn  by  the  abbrcA'iated 
name  of  Kuy  Diaz  (i.  e.,  Rodrigo, 
the  son  of  Diego),  and  Avas  Count  of 
Bivar.  In  10G5,  he  Avas  placed  by 
King  Sancho  at  the  head  of  all  his 
armies,  whence  he  acquired  the  ap- 
])ellation  of  Onnpea<hr,  i.  e.,  Avarrior, 
champion.  He  is  said  to  haA-e  died 
at  Valencia,  in  1100,  in  the  seventy- 
fourth  year  of  his  age.  The  details  of 
his  history  are  lost  in  a  cloud  of  ro- 
mantic fiction.  He  is  regarded  as  the 
model  of  the  heroic  A-irtues  of  his  age, 
and  the  tloAver  of  Spanish  chiA'alry. 

Cid  Hamet  Benengeli.  See  Ben- 
KNGELi,  Cid  Hajikt. 

Cim-me'ri-ans  (9).  [Lat.  CimmeHi, 
Vtv.  KiMMepioi.J  [Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.) 
In  the  poems  of  Homer,  a  people 
dwelling  "  beyond  the  ocean-stream," 
in  a  land  Avliere  the  sun  never  shines, 
and  Aviiere  perpetual  darkness  reigns. 
Later  Avriters  placed  them  in  Italy, 
near  Lake  Avernus,  and  described 
them  as  living  in  dark  caverns,  ex- 
ploring metals,  and  never  coming 
into  the  light  of  day. 

Cin^der-el'la.  [That  is,  little  cinder" 
girl;  Fr.  Cendrilhm,  Ger.  Aschen- 
broih'l,  Aschcnjnitttl.]  The  heroine 
of  a  Avell-knoAvn  fairy  tale,  repre- 
sented as  the  daughter  of  a  king  or  a 
rich  man,  and  condemned  by  a  cruel 
step -mother  to  act  the  part  of  a 
household  drurige,  sitting  in  the  ashes, 
Aviiile  her  more  favored  sisters  are 
dressed  in  finery  and  live  in  splendor. 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


CIP 


75 


CIT 


The  ston'  recounts  how,  by  a  fairy's 
help,  Cinderella  presents  lierself  Ije- 
fore  a  young  prinee,  and  gains  his 
love,  to  the  chagrin  of  her  sisters, 
who  had  sought  to  win  his  favor,  and 
how,  when  he  would  pursue  her,  he 
loses  sight  of  her,  and,  at  last,  by 
means  of  a  glass  slipper,  or,  as  some 
say,  a  golden  shoe,  (the  gift  of  the 
fairy,)  which  she  had  dropped  in  her 
flight,  and  which  would  tit  no  other 
foot  but  hers,  he  discovers  her,  and 
then  marries  her. 

j^^  The  story  is  very  wide-spread,  and 
is  told  witb  variations  in  different  lan- 
guages. It  is  of  great  antiquity,  and 
probably  derived  from  the  East.  Among 
the  Germans,  the  story  is  mentioned  as 
early  as  the  sixteeoth  century,  in  Rolleu- 
hagen's  ''  Froschmauseler."  In  France, 
Perrault  and  Madame  DWunoy  have  in- 
cluded it  in  their  "  Fairy  Tales."  A 
simil.tr  story,  of  Grecian  or  Egyptian  ori- 
gin, is  told  of  l{hodopis  and  Psammiti- 
chus  in  Egypt. 

Ci-pan'go.  A  marvelous  island,  de- 
scribed in  the  ''  Voyages"  of  Marco 
Polo,  the  Venetian  traveler.  It  is 
represented  as  lying  in  the  eastern 
seas,  some  1500  miles  from  land,  and 
of  its  beauty  and  wealth  many  stories 
are  related.  The  island  of  Cipango 
was  an  object  of  diligent  search  with 
Columbus  and  the  early  navigators. 
It  is  supposed  by  some  to  be  the  same 
as  Japan.  [Written  also  Zipangi 
and  Z  i  pangr  i .  ] 

Nor  will  I  bestow  any  more  attention  or 
credit  to  the  idea  that  America  is  the  fairy 
rejrion  of  Zi/iangri,  described  by  that  dream- 
ing traveler,  Marco  Polo,  the  Venetian. 

W.  Irving. 

Cir'ce(4).  [Gr.  K/p«r,.]  {Gr.  if  Ronu 
Mylh.)  A  daughter  of  Sol  and  the 
oceanid  Per.se,  and  a  noted  .'sorceress. 
She  lived  in  the  island  of  ^Ea^a,  sur- 
rounded with  numbers  of  human 
beings,  whom  she  had  changed  by 
her  drugs  and  incantations  into  the 
shape  of  Avolves  and  lions.  When 
Ulysses,  in  his  Avanderings,  came  to 
this  island,  she  turned  two-and- 
twenty  of  his  companions  into  swine ; 
but  Ulysses  himself,  having  obtained 
from   Mercury  a  sprig   of  the   herb 

,  moly,  —  of  wonderful  power  to  resist 
sorceries,  —  went  boldly  to  the  palace 
of  the   enchantress,  remained  unin- 


jured by  her  drugs,  and  induced  her 

to  disenchant  his  comrades. 

Wlio  knows  not  C'rcf, 
The  daughter  of  tlie  Sun,  whose  charmed  ci  p 
Whoever  tasted  lost  his  nprifrht  Fliape, 
And  downward  fell  into  u  groveling  swine? 

Circumlocution  Office.  A  desi^.- 
nation  made  use  of  by  Dickens  in 
"Little  Dorrit,"  in  ridicule  of  official 
delays  and  indirectness.  The  Cir- 
cumlocution OlHce  is  described  as 
the  chief  of  "  pu!)lic  departments  in 
the  art  of  perceiving /;ow'  net  to  do  it."' 
The  name  has  come  into  popular  use 
as  a  synonym  for  governmental  rou- 
tine, or  "red  tape,"  or  a  roundabout 
way  of  transacting  public  busmcss. 

4@="  "  The  Administrative  Reform  As- 
sociation might  have  worked  for  ten 
years  without  producing  half  of  tho 
effect  which  Mr.  Dickens  has  produced 
in  the  same  direction,  by  flinging  out  the 
phrase,  *  The  Circumlocution  Office.'  " 

Mnsso?i. 

Cirongillio  of  Thrace  (the-ron-hel'- 
3'e-o).  The  hero  of  an  old  romance 
of  chivalrj'  by  Bernardo  de  Vargas. 

Cities  of  the  Plain.  The  name  often 
given  to  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  the 
chief  of  the  five  cities  which  were 
destroyed  by  fire  from  heaven  ( (Jeii. 
xix.),  and  their  sites  covered  by  the 
Dead  Sea. 

Citizen  King.  A  surname  popularly 
given  to  Louis  Philippe,  Avho,  in 
1830,  Avas  placed  on  the  throne  of 
France  as  the  elective  king  of  a 
constitutional  monarchy. 

City  of  Brotherly  Love.  [Gr. 
<l'iAaS6A(/)eia,  brotherly  love.]  Phil- 
adelphia, the  metropolis  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, is  sometimes  so  called,  Avith 
reference  to  the  signification  of  the 
name  in  Greek. 

City  of  Chvirches.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  to  the  city  of  Brooklyn, 
NeAv  York,  from  the  unusually  large 
number  of  churches  Avhich  it  con- 
tains. 

City  of  David.  A  name  giA-en  to 
Jerusalem  by  King  DaA-id,  who 
Avrested  it  from  the  Canaanites,  b.  c. 
1049. 

City  of  Destruction.  In  Bunyan's 
"  Pilgrim's  Progress,"  the  imaginary 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  jind  Rules  to  which  the  number    ifter  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


CIT 


76 


CIT 


city,  typifyiiii^  tlic 'vvorld,  fmin  Avhitli 
Cliristiaii  started  (in  his  jtiigrimage 
to  tlie  Celestial  City. 

City  of  Elms.  A  familiar  denomi- 
iiatinii  (it  New  Haven,  Connecticut, 
many  of  the  streets  of  wiiicli  are 
thickly  shaded  with  lotty  elms. 

Wlipn  happier  days  shall  return,  aiul  the 
South,  awakeninj;  from  her  suicidal  ('.elusion, 
shall  remember  who  it  was  that  sewed  her 
sunnv  tiekU  with  the  seeds  of  those  golden 
crops"  with  which  she  thinks  to  rule  the  world, 
she  will  cast  a  veil  of  oblivion  over  the  mem- 
ory of  the  ambitious  men  who  have  goaded 
her  to  her  present  madness,  and  will  rear  a 
nionumcnt  of  her  gratitude  in  the  beautiful 
Citii  or'  Elms,  i>ver  the  ashes  of  her  greatest 
benefactor,  —  Eli  Whitney. 

Edward  Everett  (1801). 

City  of  JEnch.antinents.  A  magical 
city  described  in  the  stor\'  of  Beder, 
Prince  of  Persia,  in  the  "  Arabian 
Nights'  Entertainments." 

City  of  God.  The  snbject  and  title 
of  St.  Augustine's  celebrated  work 
("  De  Civitate  Dei"),  written  after 
the  sack  of  Rome  by  Alaric,  to  an- 
swer the  assertion  of  the  pagans  that 
the  disasters  to  their  country  were  a 
consequence  of  the  desertion  of  the 
national  deities  by  the  Christians. 
The  City  of  God  compreliends  the 
body  of  Christian  believers,  in  dis- 
tinction from  the  City  of  the  World, 
which  comprises  those  who  do  not 
belong  to  the  Church.  The  work 
treats  of  both  cities,  but  it  takes  its 
name  from  the  former  only. 

The  City  of  the  World,  whose  origin  and 
vicissitudes  Augustine  had  traced,  appeared 
to  him  ui\dcr  very  dismal  aspects,  and  it  was 
toward  the  Citii  or'  (iod,  of  which  lie  was  also 
the  Catholic  liomer,  that  all  his  hopes  were 
turned.  J'oujoulat,  Trann. 

City  of  Lanterns.  An  imaginary 
cloud- city  spoken  of  in  the  "  VerrB 
Histori;e  "  of  Lucian.  a  romance  writ- 
ten with  a  satirical  purpose.  The 
voyagers,  whose  adventures  are  the 
puiiject  of  the  work,  sail  through  the 
Pillars  of  Hercules,  and  are  wrecked 
upon  an  enchanted  island.  They 
next  travel  through  the  Zodiac,  and 
arrive  at  the  City  of  Lanterns.  Af- 
ter further  adventures,  the  voyage 
tenninates  at  the  Islands  of  the  Blest. 
Kabelais  probably  borrowed  his  con- 
ception of  the  Island  of  Lanterns  (see 
Island   of    Lantekxs)    from    this 


source,  which  also  undoubtedly  fur- 
nished hints  to  Le  Sage  and  to  Swift- 
City  of  Magnificent  Distances.  A 
popular  designation  given  to  the  city 
of  Washington,  the  capital  of  the 
United  States,  which  is  laid  out  on 
a  very  large  scale,  being  intended  to 
cover  a  space  of  four  miles  and  a  half 
long,  and  two  miles  and  a  half  broad, 
or  eleven  square  miles.  The  entire 
site  is  traversed  by  two  ?ets  of  streets 
from  70  to  lUU  teet  wide,  at  right 
angles  to  one  another,  the  whole 
again  intersected  oblic[uelv  by  fifteen 
avenues  from  130  to  IGO  teet  wide. 

City  of  Masts.  A  name  often  be- 
stowed upon  London,  in  allusion  to 
the  magnitude  (^if  its  commerce. 

City  of  Notions.  In  the  United 
States,  a  popular  name  for  the  city  of 
Boston,  Massachusetts,  the  metropo- 
lis of  Yankeedom. 

City  of  Palaces.  1.  An  appellation 
frequently  given  to  Calcutta,  the  cap- 
ital of  British  India.  The  southern 
portion  of  the  city  comprises  the 
principal  European  residences,  many 
of  which  are  vers-  elegant  and  even 
palatial  edifices. 

&^  The  City  of  Palaces  really  deserves 
that  appellation.  Nothing  can  Vie  more 
impeding  than  the  splendid  house.'^  of 
Chowringhee.  viewed  from  the  Coiir.^e, 
which  is  a  broad  carriage- road  on  the  es- 
planade of  Fort  William,  adjoining  the 
nice-oourse.  from  which.  I  presume,  it 
derives  its  name.  Black irooi/'s  Ma^. 

2.  A  title  sometimes  given  to  Ed- 
inburgh, but  Avith  no  great  propriety. 

City  of  Peace  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  .Terusalem,  which  was  an- 
ciently called  Salt  in,  a  Avord  mean- 
ing "  peace." 

City  of  Rocks.  A  descriptive  name 
popularlv  given,  in  the  United  States, 
to  the  city  of  Nashville,  Tennessee. 

City  of  Spindles.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  the  city  of  Lowell.  ^Ia<sa- 
chusctts,  the  largest  cotton-manufac- 
turing town  in  the  United  States. 

City  of  the  Great  King.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  Jerusalem,  which 
is  so  called  in  Psalm  xlviii.  2,  and  in 
Mud.  v.  35. 


For  the  "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with    the  accompanymg  £xpliination% 


CIT 


77 


CLA 


City  of  the  Prophet.  [Arab.  3fedi- 
nnt  al  NithiJ\  A  name  f;ivcii  to 
Medina,  in  Arabia,  because  here  Ma- 
homet was  protected  wlieii  be  tied 
from  Mecca,  -luiy  16,  ()22,  —  a  tii^lit 
known  in  liistory  as  the  J/e(/int,  and 
forming  an  important  epoch  in  cliro- 
nology. 

City  of  the  Straits.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  to  Detroit,  which  is  situ- 
ated on  the  west  banlv  of  the  river  or 
strait  connectmg  Lake  8t.  Clair  with 
Lake  Erie.  Iktroit  is  a  French  word, 
meanmg  "  strait." 

City  of  the  Sun.  1.  A  translation 
of  Bnnlbec,  or  Bftlbec,  a  ruined  town 
of  Syria,  once  of  great  size,  magnifi- 
cence, and  importance.  Its  Greek 
name,  Iltliojjulis^  has  the  same  signif- 
ication. 

2.  [Lat.  Clvitns  Solis,  Fr.  Cife  chi 
So/eiL]  A  citv  placed  by  Thomas 
Campanella  (1508-1(339)  in  the  ideal 
republic  which  he  constructed  after 
the  manner  of  Plato,  and  m  which 
he  depicts  a  perfect  society  organized 
somewhat  like  a  convent,  and  estab- 
lished upon  the  pnnciples  of  a  theo- 
cratic communism. 

City  of  the  Tribes.  A  name  given 
to  Galway,  in  Ireland,  as  having  been 
the  residence  of  thirteen  "tribes,"  or 
chief  families,  who  settled  here  about 
the  year  12'35,  and  whose  names 
were' Burke,  Blake,  Budkm,  Martin, 
Athy,  Browne,  D'Arcy,  -Toyce,  Kir- 
wan,  Lynch,  Morris,  Ffont,  Skerrett. 

City  of  the  Violated  Treaty.  A 
name  given  to  the  city  of  Lnnerick, 
in  Ireland,  on  account  of  the  repeat- 
ed violations  of  a  treaty  signed  Oct. 
1691,  the  first  article  of  which  was, 
that  the  Roman  Catholics  should  en- 
joy such  privileges  in  the  exercise  of 
their  religion  as  the}'  enjoyed  in  the 
reign  of  Charles  11. 

JSC:S=-  "  Years  of  unjust  and  vindictive 
penal  laws,  which  are  now,  happily, 
swept  away,  show  that  this  name  wks 
well  founded."  Knight. 

City  of  the  Violet  Crown.  A  desig- 
nation sometimes  given  to  Athens. 
The  ancient  Greeks  were  accustomed 
to  wear  garlands  of  flowers  at  their 
lestive  eutertaiiuneuts-,  and  tiie  vioJet 


(Cr.  (o;)  was  the  favorite  flower  of 
the  Athenians.  It  thus  became  the 
.«ynil)ol  of  file  city,  to  Avhich.  as  well 
as  to  its  inlial)it:ints,  the  epitiu>t  I'c- 
(TT€(l)ai'o^,  A'ioiet-i'rowned,  is  aj'jilied  by 
the  ])oets.  In  the  opinion  of  vome, 
the  name  involves  a  punning  allu- 
sion to  the  fact  tliat  Alliens  was  the 
chief  city  in  Europe  of  the  Jmiiin 
race. 

He  [Pitt]  loved  Entrland  as  an  Athenian 
loved  the  City  of  the  Violut  Crown. 

JIncaulay, 

City  of  the  "West.  A  name  gener- 
ally given  in  Scotland  to  Glasgow, 
the  largest  city,  and  the  manufac- 
turing and  commercial  metropolis,  of 
the  kingdom  It  is  situated  on  the 
Clyde,  the  principal  river  on  the 
west  coast,  and  far  surpassing,  in 
navigable  importance,  all  the  other 
Scottish  rivers. 

City  of  Victory.  Cairo,  the  capital 
city  of  Egypt;  —  sometimes  s-o  called 
with  reference  to  the  signification  of 
its  Aral)ic  name,  A/  Kaldr^a,  or  "  The 
Victorious." 

Clarchen  (klef'ken).  A  female  char- 
acter in  Goethe's  "Egmont;"  cele- 
brated for  her  constancy  and  devotion. 

Clar  5ce  (It-  pron.  kla-re'cheeV  Wife 
of  Rinaldo,  and  sister  of  Huon  of 
Bordeaux,  frequently  mentioned  in 
fhe  romances  and  romantic  poems  of 
France  and  Italy. 

Clarissa.     See  Harlow'e,  Clahissa. 

Clau'di-o.  1.  A  young  gentleman  in 
love  with  Juliet,  m  Shakesi)eare's 
"Measure  for  Measure." 

2.  A  young  lord  of  Florence,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Much  Ado  about 
Nothing." 

Clau'di-us.  A  usurping  king  of  Den- 
mark, in  Shakespeare's  ''  Ilamlet." 

But  Tom  Tushcr,  to  tnke  the  place  of  the 
tiol)le  Castlowofid— faao;h!  'twas  as  monstrous 
as  Kins  Iliunlet's  widow  taking  off  tier  weeds 
for  Claurliiis.  Tliackeray. 

Claus,  Peter.     See  Klaus,  Petek. 

Glaus,  Santa.     See  St.  Nicholas. 

Clav'er-house  (klav'er-us).  The 
name  under  which  the  unrelenting 
,]acol)ite  partisan  and  pcrserut<ir, 
.John  Graham,  Viscount  Dundee  (d. 
168.)),  eldest  son  of  Sir  William  Gra- 
ham, of  Claverhouse,  was  generally 


«nd  for  the  Raniaiks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv  xxxiL 


CLA 


78 


CLI 


known  in  the  time  of  James  II.,  and 

is  still  known  in  history. 
Clavileno,  Aligero  (t;la-ve-lr\n'3'0  i- 
le-ha'ro,  58,  (32).  [Sp.,  wooden-pin 
wing-bearer.]  A  celebrated  steed 
which  enabled  Don  Quixote  and  his 
faithful  squire  to  achieve  the  deliver- 
ance of  the  Dolorida  Duefa  and  her 
companions  in  niislbrtune  Irom  their 
beards. 

C16ante  (kla'ont',  62).  1.  A  charac- 
ter in  Moliere's  celebrated  comedy, 
"  Le  Tartutfe,"  distinguished  lor  his 
sound  and  genuine  piety. 

2.    A   chaiacter  in   the   ''  Malade 
Imaginaire  "'  of  the  same  author. 

Clean  the  Causeway  Riot.  (Scot. 
Hist. )  The  name  popularly  given  to 
a  skirmish  or  encounter  in  lulin- 
burgh,  in  the  year  1515,  between  the 
rival  factions  of  the  Earl  of  Angus  — 
chief  of  the  Douglases  —  and  the 
Earl  of  Arran  —  the  head  of  the 
great  family  of  the  Hamiltons.  In 
this  contest,  the  partisans  of  Angus 
were  worsted,  and  tied  Irym  the  city 
in  great  confusion,  being,  as  it  were, 
swept  from  the  streets. 

Cleishbotham,  Jedediah  (kleesh'- 
both-Sm ).  An  imaginary  editor  of  the 
"Tales  of  My  Landlord,"  written  by 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  but  represented  as 
the  composition  of  a  certain  3Ir.  Pe- 
ter Pattieson,  assistant  teacher  at 
Gandercleuch.     See  Pattieson 

Richter  tried  all  Leipsic  with  his  MS.  in 
vain,  to  a  man,  with  that  total  contempt  of 
grammar  whi^h  Jcrlcliah  C'l('i.''hhof/ifim  also 
complains  of,  they  "  declined  the  article." 

(Jarlyle, 

C161ie  (kla'le').  A  principal  charac- 
ter in  a  romance — "Clelie,  Ilistoire 
Komaine  "  —  written  by  Mine.  Scu- 
dery,  though  the  first  Volumes  were 
originally  published  under  the  name 
of  her  brother,  (ieorge  de  Scudery. 
The  action  of  the  story  is  placed  in 
the  early  ages  of  Roman  history,  and 
the  heroine  is  that  Cladia  who  es- 
caped from  the  power  of  Porsena  by 
swimming  across  the  Tiber. 

_  High-flown  compliments,  profound  bows, 
sighs,  and  ogles,  in  the  manner  of  tlie  Vlelie 
romances.  Tfiackenu/. 

Clem'en-ti'na,  The  Lady.  An  ami- 
able, beautitul,  and  accomplished 
woman,    deeply    in    love  with    Sir 


Charles  Grandison,  in  Richardson's 
novel  of  this  name.  Sir  Charles  fi- 
nally marries  Hamet  Byron,  though 
he  is  represented  as  having  little  or 
no  partiality  for  her. 

I  shall  be  no  Lnd;/  Clemevtina,  to  be  the 
wonder  and  pity  of  the  npring  of  St.  Ronan's, 
—  no  Ophelia,  neither,  —  though  I  will  say 
with  her,  "Good-night,  ladies;  good-night, 
sweet  ladies ! "  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Cleofas.     See  Don  Cleofas. 

Cle-om'bro-tus.  [Gr.  KAeoM^poro?.] 
An  Academic  philos(ipher  of  Ambra- 
cia,  who  is  said  to  have  been  so  en- 
raptured by  the  perusal  of  Plato's 
"  Phadon  "  that  he  threw  himself 
down  from  a  high  wall,  or,  according 
to  some  accounts,  jumped  into  the 
sea,  in  order  to  exchange  this  life  for 
a  better. 

Others  came  single;  ...  he  who,  to  enjoy 
Plato's  Elysium,  leaped  into  the  sea, 
Cltoiuhroius ;  and  many  more  too  long. 

Slilton. 

Clifford,  Paul.  The  title  of  a  novel 
by  Sir  Edward  Lytton  IJulwer  (now 
Sir  Edward  Bulwer  Lytton),  and  the 
name  of  its  heio,  a  romantic  high- 
wayman, familiar  with  the  haunts  of 
k'W  vice  and  dissipation,  but  after- 
ward relbrmtd  and  elevated  by  the 
power  of  love. 

Clim  of  the  Clough.  [That  is,  Clem- 
ent of  the  Glen,]  A  north-country 
archer,  celebrated  in  the  legendary 
literature  of  England. 

Clinker,  Humphry.  The  hero  of 
Sm(  ilett's  nf>vel  entitled,  "  The  Ex- 
pedition of  Humphry  Clinker."  He 
is  intifduccd  as  a  destitute  and  shab- 
by fellow ,  who  had  been  bioi;ght  up 
in  the  work-house,  put  out  by  the  par- 
ish as  apprentice  to  a  blacksmith,  and 
afterward  employed  as  an  hostler's 
assistant  and  extra  postilion.  Hav- 
ing been  dismissed  from  the  stable, 
and  reduced  to  great  want,  he  at 
length  attracts  the  notice  of  Mr. 
Bramble,  who  takes  him  into  his 
family  as  a  servant  He  becomes 
the  accepted  lover  of  Winifred  Jen- 
kins, and  at  length  turns  out  to  be  a 
natural  son  of  Mr.  Bramble. 

;fi!^  ''Humphry  Clinker  "*  is,  T  do  be- 
lieve, the  most  hiuglnible  story  that  has 
ever  been  written  since  the  goodl.x  art  of 
novel-writing  began.  Tharkeray. 


SS""  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationa, 


CLI 


79 


CLU 


Cli'o.  [Gr.  KAeioG,  the  proclaimer.] 
(6'/-.  cf  Jiom.  Myth.)  1,  One  of  the 
nine  Muses.  She  presided  over  his- 
tory, and  was  represented  as  bearing 
a  hall-opened  roll  of  a  book. 

2.  A  name  formed  from  the  four 
letters  used  by  Addison  as  his  sij^na- 
ture  in  the  "  Speetator."  His  most 
admired  papers  were  marked  by  one 
or  other  of  these  letters,  signed  con- 
secutively. But  it  is  not  probable 
that  he  n'leant  lo  adopt  the  name  of 
one  of  the  Muses.  With  greater 
likelihood,  the  letters  are  supposed  to 
refer  to  the  places  where  the  essays 
were  composed ;  namely,  Chelsea, 
London,  Islington,  and  the  Otiice. 
The  contrary  opinion,  however,  has 
generally  prevailed ;  and  Addison 
was  often  called  "  Clio  "  by  his  con- 
temporaries, as  well  as  by  later  writ- 
ers. 

When  pantin}?  virtue  her  last  efforts  made, 
You  brought  your  Clio  to  the  virgin's  aid. 

Soniei'ville. 

Cloacina.     See  Cluacina. 

Clo-an'thus.  One  of  the  companions 
of  ^Eneas  in  his  voyage  to  Italy,  and 
the  reputed  ancestor  of  the  Cluentii 
family  at  Rome. 

Tlie  strong  Gyas  and  tlie  strong  CloanfJnm 
are  less  distiiiguislied  by  the  poet  than  the 
strong  Pereival,  the  strong  John,  Rieliard, 
and  Wilfred  Osbaldistones  [cliaracters  in 
"  Rob  lioy  "]  were  by  outward  appeamnee. 

.Sir  W.  ,ScoU. 

Cloeli-a.     See  Clelie. 

Clootie,  or  Cloots.  See  Auld  Cloo- 
tie. 

Clorinda  (klo-ren'da).  The  heroine 
of  the  infidel  army  in  Tasso's  epic 
poem,  "  Jerusalem  Delivered."  She 
is  an  Amazon,  and  is  represented  as 
inspiring  the  most  tender  attection  in 
others,  especially  in  the  Christian 
chief  Tancred ;  yet  she  is  herself 
susceptible  of  no  passion  but  the  love 
of  military  fame.     See  Sofkonia. 

Clo'ten.  A  rejected  lover  of  Imogen, 
in  Shakespeare's  play  of  "  Cymbe- 
line;  "  a  compound  of  the  booby  and 
the  villain;  an  "  irregulous  devil.'' 

£^^  Miss  Seward,  in  one  of  her  letters, 
assures  us,  that.  <iMgiil;ir  as  the  character 
,       of  Cloten  may  appear,  it  is  the  exact  pro- 
totype of  a  person  whom  she  once  knew. 
"  The  unmeaning  frown  of  the  counte- 


nance;  the  Fhuffling  pait ;  the  bur.<«t  of 

voice  ;  tne  bustling  in.^igniticance  ;  tiie 
fever-and-ague  lits  of  valor  ;  the  froward 
tetcliiness  ;  tiie  unprincipled  malice  ; 
and — wiiat  is  most  cLiri<)ii.>  —  those  oc- 
casional gleams  of  good  sen>e,  amiiist  the 
floating  clouds  of  folly  which  generally 
darkeni'd  and  coufusiMl  the  man's  brain, 
and  which,  in  the  (-haractcr  of  Cloten,  we 
are  apt  to  impute  to  a  violation  of  unity 
in  character;  but,  in  the  sometime  (Cap- 
tain V n,  I  saw  the   portrait  of  Cloteu 

was  not  out  of  nature." 

.Tnstico    inav    even    sometimes    class    him 

tPopeJ  with  those  moral  assassins  who  wea., 
ike  Cloten,  their  dagger  in  their  mouths. 

7i.  /'.  Whipple. 

Clothier  of  England.  See  Jack 
OK  Newbury. 

Clo'tho.  [Gr.  KAa)0ai,  spinster.]  {Gr. 
if  Jiom.  Jfijtit.)  One  of  the  three 
Parcffi,  or  Fates;  the  one  who  pre- 
sides over  birth,  and  holds  the  distaff 
from  which  tlie  thread  of  life  is  spun. 

Mean  criminals  go  to  the  gallows  for  a 
purse  cut ;  and  this  chief  criminal,  guilty  of  a 
France  cut,  of  a  France  slashed  asunder  with 
C/o</(o-scissors  and  civil  war,  .  .  .  he,  such 
chief  criminal,  shall  not  even  come  to  the 
bar  ?  Carlj/le. 

Cloudeslie,  'Williani  of.  See  Wil- 
liam OF  Cloudeslie. 

Clout,  Col'in.  The  subject  of  a  scur- 
rilous satire  by  John  Skelton  (d. 
152i)),  but  better  known  as  a  name 
applied  by  Spenser  to  himself  in  the 
"  Faery  Queen  "  and  the  "  Shep- 
herd's Calendar."  Colin  Clout  tig- 
m-es  also  in  Gay's  "  Pastorals." 

Clu'a-ci'na.  [From  Lat.  cluere,  to 
purify.]  {Rom.  Myth.)  A  .surname 
of  Venus,  who  was  so  called  because, 
when  the  Romans  and  Sabines  were 
reconciled,  they  purified  themselves 
W'ith  sacred  myrtle-branches,  in  the 
vicinity  of  a  statue  of  the  goddess, 
and  afterward  erected  a  temple  there 
in  honor  of  her.  [Often  w^ritten 
Cloacina,  from  a  mistaken  notion 
that  she  presided  over  the  cloacce,  or 
sewers.] 

Club,  The.  1.  {Eng.  Hist.)  A  knot 
of  disappointed  Whigs,  of  Avhom  Sir 
James  Aiontgomery,  the  Earl  ofAn- 
nandale,  and  Lord  Ross  were  the  most 
cons])ieuous,  formed  themselves,  in 
Edinburo;h.  into  a  society,  called ''  The 
Chil),"  in  William  the  "Third's  time. 
They  were,  according  to  Macaiday, 


sad  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


CLU 


80 


coc 


dishonest  malcontents,  -n-hoso  object 
was  n-.erely  to  annoy  the  govern- 
ment and  get  places.  They  lonned 
a  coahtion  with  tlie  .Jacobites;  gave 
great  trmiljle  to  William  and  Mary; 
and  broki-  up  in  disgrace,  the  chiefs 
betraying  each  otlier. 

2.  Under  the  name  of  "  The 
Chib,"  —  at  Garrick's  funeral,  in 
1779,  entitled  the  "  Literary  Club," 
—  tlourisliL'd  a  celebrated  association, 
proposed  hrst  by  Sir  .Joshua  Ke}-- 
nolds,  and  acceded  to  by  Dr.  John- 
son ;  of  which  the  original  members 
were  Sir  Joshua,  Dr.  Johnson,  Mr. 
Edmund  Burke,  Dr.  Nugent,  Mr. 
Beauclerk,  Mr.  Langton,  Dr.  Gold- 
smith, Mr.  Chamier,  and  Sir  John 
Hawkins.  It  has  reckoned  amongst 
its  members  some  of  the  most  distin- 
guished literary  and  scientitic  char- 
acters. 

Clvunsy,  Sir  Tun'bel-ly.  A  charac- 
ter in  Vanbrugh's  "  Relapse." 

Clu'ri-caune.  {Fairy  Myth.)  A  fa- 
mous Irish  elf,  of  evil  disposition, 
Avho  usually  appears  as  a  wrinkled 
old  man,  and  has  a  knowledge  of 
hidden  treasure. 

Clut'ter-buck,  Captain  Cuth'bert. 
A  sort  of  pseudcjnym  of  Sir  Walter 
Scott,  it  being  the  name  of  an  imag- 
inary editor  of  his  "  Fortunes  of  Ni- 
gel," and  of  an  equally  imaginary 
patron  to  whom  he  dedicated  his 
'•Abbot." 

Clyt'em-nes'trS.  [Gr.  KA.vrat/xi'^- 
o-rpa.]  {Gr.  cf  Eoin.  Myth.)  The 
faithless  wife  of  Agamemnon,  killed 
by  her  son  Orestes  for  her  crimes. 
See  ^Egisthus,  Orestes. 

Clyt'i-e(klish'i-e).  [Gr.KA.vTta.]  {Gr. 
()•  Rom.  Myth.)  A  water-nymph 
who  fell  in  love  with  Apollo,  or  the 
Sun-god.  Meeting  with  no  recipro- 
cation of  her  passion,  she  became 
changed  into  a  sunflower,  and  still 
keeps  her  face  constantly  turned 
towards  him  throughout  his  daily 
course. 

I  will  not  have  the  mad  Clyde, 
■\VhosL'  head  is  tiinu-d  by  the  sun  ; 

The  tulip  is  a  courtlv  (hk-sui. 
Whom  therefore  I  will  shun.  Hood. 

Coalition  Ministry.  ( Enrj.  Hist. )  1. 
A  desi'Miation  given  to  the  adminis- 


tration of  Lord  North  and  Mr.  Charles 
James  Kox,  as  being  an  extraordi- 
nary' political  union  of  statesmen 
wlio  had  previously  always  displayed 
a  strong  personal  dislike  toward  each 
other.  It  was  t(»nned  April  5,  1183, 
and  dissolved  Dec.  I'J,  in  the  same 
year. 

jK^=  ''  Not  three  quarters  of  a  year  had 
elapsed  since  Fox  and  liurke  had  threat- 
ened North  with  impeaehmeut.  and  had 
described  hiui,  uight  after  night,  as  the 
most  arbitrary,  tue  most  corrupt,  the 
most  incapable  of  ministers.  They  now 
allied  themselves  witli  him  for  the  pur- 
pose of  driving  from  office  a  statesman 
[Shelburne]  with  whom  tney  cannot  be 
said  to  have  differed  as  to  any  impurtant 
question."  Maiauiay. 

2.  The  same  appellation  was  given 
to  the  "Broad  Bottom  Administra- 
tion" {q.  v.),  and  to  the  Aberdeen 
Administration  (formed  Dec.  28, 1852, 
resigned  Jan.  30,  1855). 

Cockade  City.  A  title  popularly 
given  to  the  city  of  Petersburg,  in 
Virginia. 

Cockagne  (kok-an').  [Fr.  {aho pays 
(It  cociifjnt);  Old  Fr.  cocoifjne,  Sp.  cu- 
cnila,  It.  iucafjnn,  cuccaf/na,  cuf/gu- 
gmt^  from  It.  cucci,  sweetmeats,  dain- 
ties, Prov.  Fr.  couque,  Catalan  coca, 
cake,  from  Latin  coquere,  to  cook,  be- 
cause it  was  fancied  that  the  houses 
in  Cockagne  were  covered  with 
cakes.]  An  imaginaiy  country'  of 
idleness  and  luxury ;  hence,  in  bur- 
lesque, London  and  its  suburbs.  It 
is  the  subject  of  a  celebrated  satirical 
poem  of  the  same  name,  which  War- 
ton  holds  to  have  been  "  evidently 
Avritten  soon  after  the  Conquest,"  but 
which  is  probably  not  older  than  the 
year  1.300.  Boileau  applies  the  name 
to  the  French  caj^ital.  The  mat  tie 
Cocru/ne  (or  greased  pole)  is  one  of 
the  amusements  of  the  Champs  fily- 
sees,  in  Paris.  The  Neapolitans  have 
a  festival  Avhich  they  call  O'cnyna. 
In  Germany,  Hans  Sachs  has  made 
the  "  Land  of  Cockagne  "  the  sub- 
ject of  a  humorous  poem  under  the 
name  of  Schldrajfenland.  See  Lub- 
iJEiiLAND.  [Written  also  Cocaign, 
Cockaigne,  and  anciently  C  o  k- 
aygne.] 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


coc 


81 


C<E 


'  Cokayt^ne  '  seems  to  have  been 
a  sort  of  media) val  Utopia.  I'erliaps  the 
earliest  speciuieu  of  Ihiglish  p)Oetry  which 
we  possess  .  .  .  is  the  humorous  descrip- 
tiou  of  it,  begiuuiug, — 

'Fur  ill  st'f,  by-west  Spayj;ne, 
Is  a  loud  ihote  Coekaygnc' 
Whatever  may  be  the  origin  of  the  word, 
it  is  evidently  connected  with  the  much- 
debated  cocLniy,  wliich  probably  implied 
an  undue  regard  for  luxury  and  refine- 
ment in  the  persons  to  whom  it  was  ap- 
plied—  generally  to  Londoners  as  con- 
trasted with  '  persons  rusticall.'  " 

Loiver. 

Even  the  Grand  Elector  himself  was  liable 
to  this  fate  of  "absorption,"  as  it  was  called, 
although  he  held  liis  crown  of  Cofkaym'  in 
the  common  case  for  life.  Sir  )('.  Scott. 

It  was  for  the  readernotthe  El  Dorado  only, 
but  a  beatific  land  of  Cockaigne  (and  paradise 
of  Do-nothings).  Carli/le. 

Cock-Lane  Ghost.  The  name  giv- 
en to  the  imagined  cause  of  certain 
strange  plienonieua  wliicli  took  place 
in  the  year  1762  about  the  bed  of  a 
young  girl  by  the  name  of  Parsons, 
at  house  No.  33  Cock  Lane,  West 
Sniithtield,  London,  and  were  the 
cause  of  much  excitement.  The  rec- 
tor of  the  parish,  with  "  a  number  of 
gentlemen  of  rank  and  character," 
of  whom  Dr.  Johnson  was  one,  un- 
dertook to  soh^e  the  mystery.  Their 
examination  satisfied  them  that  the 
whole  was  an  imposture  originating 
in  a  malignant  conspiracy,  and  the 
parents  of  the  girl  were  condemned 
to  the  pillory  and  to  imprisonment. 
The  supposed  presence  of  the  ghost 
was  indicated  by  certain  mysterious 
scratchings  and  knockings  produced 
on  a  piece  of  board  which  the  girl 
concealed  about  her  person.  Dr. 
Johnson  wrote  a  statement  of  the 
affair,  which  was  published  in  the 
"Gentleman's  Magazine. "  See  vol. 
xxxii.,  pp.  43  ami  81. 

Cockney  School.  A  name  formerly 
given  by  some  of  the  English  critics 
to  a  literary  coterie  whose  produc- 
tions were  said  "  to  consist  of  the 
most  incongruous  ideas  in  the  most 
uncouth  language."  In  this  sect 
were  included  Leigh  Hunt,  Hazlitt, 
Shellev,  Keats,  and  others;  and  the 
"Quarterly  lievicAv"  (April,  1818) 
charged  the  first  with  aspiring  to  be 
the  ''hierophant  "  of  it. 


JS(W  "  While  the  whole  critical  world 
is  occupied  witli  balan<'inK  the  merits, 
whether  in  theory  or  execution,  of  what 
is  commonly  called  the  Lake  School,  it  is 
strange  that  no  one  seems  to  think  it  at 
all  necessary  to  .say  a  single  word  about 
another  new  sciiool  of  poetry  wiiich  has 
of  late  sprung  up  among  us.  "  Tiiis  school 
has  not,  I  believe,  as  jet  received  any 
name ;  but,  if  1  may  be  permitted  to 
have  the  honor  of  christening  it,  it  may 
henceforth  be  referred  to  by  the  designa- 
tion of  the  Cockney  School.  Its  chief 
Doctor  and  Professor  is  Mr.  Leigh  Hunt, 
a  man  certainly  of  some  talents,  of 
extraordinary  pretensions  both  in  poe- 
try and  politics,  and  withal  of  exqui 
sitely  lad  taste  and  extremely  vulgar 
modes  of  thinking  and  manners  in  all 
respects.  ...  He  is  the  ideal  of  a  Cock- 
ney poet.  He  raves  perpetually  about 
'green  fields,'  'jaunty  streams,'  and 
'  o'erarching  leafiness,'  exnctly  as  a 
Cheapside  shopkeeper  does  about  the 
beauties  of  his  box  on  the  Camberwell 
road." 

Z.  (i.  e.  J.  G.  Lork/iart),  in  Blackivood's 
Mag.,  Oct.  1817. 

Cock  of  the  North.  A  sobriquet 
given  to  the  late  and  last  Duke  of 
Gordon  (d.  1836).  He  is  so  called  on 
a  monument  erected  in  his  honor  at 
Fochabers,  in  Aberdeenshire,  Scot- 
land. 

Co'cles,  Ho-ra'ti-us.  [Lat.,  Hora- 
tius  the  one-eyed.]  A  hero  of  the 
old  Koman  lays,  ivho  defended  a 
bridge  against  the  whole  Etruscan 
army  under  Porsena,  until  his  coun- 
trymen had  broken  dowji  the  end  of 
it  which  was  behind  him,  when  he 
plunged  into  the  stream,  and  swam, 
amid  the  arrows  of  the  enemy,  to  a 
place  of  safety. 

Co-cy'tus.  [Gr.  Kcok^vto'?,  lamenta- 
tion.] {Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.)  One  of 
the  rivers  that  washed  the  shores  of 
hell,  and  prevented  imprisoned  souls 
fi-om  returning  to  earth.  It  was  a 
branch  of  the  Styx. 

Coci/trai,  named  of  lamentations  lend 
Heard  on  the  rueful  stream.  Milton. 

Coelebs.  [Lat.,  a  bachelor.]  The 
hero  of  a  novel  bv  Hannah  More 
(1714-1833),  entitled  "  Coelebs  in 
Search  of  a  Wife." 

Ready  command  of  money,  he  feels,  will  be 
extremely  desiraf)le  in  a  wife,— desirable  and 
almost  iudispeusable   in    present    utraitened 


und  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  afler  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


6 


C(E 


82 


COL 


circumstances.    These  are  the  notions  of  this 
ill-situuted  (  (jelebs.  Carli/ie. 

Cce'lus.  {Rom.  .\fi/(h.)  S(»n  of  ^Ether 
(air)  and  Dies  {(lay),  and  one  of  the 
most  ancient  of  the  gods;  the  same 
as  Urtinm.     !See  Uka.m.s. 

Coeur  de  Lion  (kur  dc  li'on;  Fr. 
]n-i>n.  kordu  Ic^l"',  4i',  (»2).  [Kr.,  lion- 
lu'arted.J  A  surname  given  to  liich- 
ard  I.  of  England,  un  atcuunt  of  his 
dauntless  courage,  about  A.  i).  ll'J2. 
Tliis  surname  was  also  conferred  on 
Louis  VIII.  of  France,  who  signal- 
ized himself  in  the  Crusades  and  in 
his  wars  against  England,  about  122;J, 
and  on  Boleslas  L,  king  of  Poland. 

Coffin,  Tom.  See  Long  Tom  Cof- 
fin. 

Co'I-la.  A  Latin  or  Latinized  name 
of  Kyle,  a  district  of  Scotland, 
county  of  Ayr,  celebrated  in  the 
lyric  poetry  of  Burns.  According  to 
tradition,  it  is  derived  from  Coilus,  a 
Pictish  monarch.  Burns  also  uses 
the  name  as  a  poetical  synonym  for 
ScDllnnd. 

Farewell,  old  Coila's  hills  and  dales, 
Her  heathy  moors,  and  winding  vales. 

Bums. 

Colada  {Sp.proii.  ko-la'fha,  50).  The 
name  of  one  of  the  Cid's  two  swords, 
which  were  of  dazzling  brightness, 
and  had  hilts  of  solid  gold. 

Cold'brand.  A  Danish  giant  van- 
quished and  slain  in  an  encounter 
with  Guy  of  Warwick.  See  Guy, 
Sir,  Eahl  of  Warwick.  [Writ- 
ten also  Colbran,  Colbrand.] 


"  It  is  false!  "  said  Gregory; 
Dane  was  a  dwarf  to  hin\." 


Colbrand  the 
^'(V  W.  Scott. 


Coldstream,  Sir  Charles.  The  name 
of  a  character  in  Charles  Mathews's 
play  entitled  "  Csed  Up;"  distin- 
guished for  his  utter  ennui^  his  men- 
tal inanity,  and  his  apparent  physical 
imbecility. 

Colin  Tampon  (kn'lan'  ton/po"',  62). 
A  reproachful  sobriquet  said  to  have 
been  anciently  given  to  the  Swis.s, 
and  to  represent  the  sound  of  their 
drums. 

Col-lean',  May.  The  heroine  of  a 
Scottish  ballad,  which  relates  how  a 
"  fause  Sir  John  "  carried  her  to  a 
rock  by  the  sea  for  the  purpose  of 


drowning  her,  and  how  she  outwitted 
him,  and  suljjccteti  him  to  tlie  same 
late  he  had  intended  for  her. 

Colloquy  of  Poissy  (pwo'se').  [Fr. 
t'lillixjue  lit  J^otssi^.l  {Fr.  Hist.)  The 
name  commonly  given  to  a  national 
synod  of  Cat  holies  and  Calvinistsheld 
at  Poissy,  in  l.'j(il,  to  .settle  the  relig- 
ious controversies  by  which  Prance 
was  then  agitated.  The  conference, 
however, was  mutually  unsatisfactor}-, 
and  was  brought  to  a  premature  con- 
clusion. Botli  parties  became  more 
embittered  against  each  other  than 
ever,  and  the  desolating  wars  of 
religion   soon  followed. 

Cologne,  The  Three  Kings  of. 
A  name  given  to  the  three  magi 
who  visited  the  infant  Saviour,  and 
whose  bodies  are  said  to  have  been 
brought  by  the  Empress  Helena 
from  the  East  to  Constantinople, 
whence  they  were  transferred  to  Mi- 
lan. Afterward,  in  1164,  on  Milan 
being  taken  by  the  Emperor  Fred- 
erick, they  were  presented  by  him 
to  the  Archbishop  of  Cologne,  who 
placed  them  in  the  principal  church 
of  the  city,  where,  says  Cressy, 
"  they  are  to  this  day  celebrated  with 
great  veneration."  Their  names  are 
commonly  said  to  be  Jaspar,  ilel- 
chior,  and  Balthazar;  but  one  tradi- 
tion gives  them  as  Apellius,  Amerus, 
Damascus;  another  as  Magalath, 
Galgalath,  Sarasin;  and  still  another 
as  Ator,  Sator,  Peratoras.  See  Magi, 
The  Three. 

Colonel    Caustic.       See     Caustic, 

C<»LONEL. 

Co-lum'bi-a.  A  name  often  given  to 
the  New  World,  from  a  feeling  of  po- 
etic justice  to  its  discoverer.  The 
application  of  tlie  term  is  usually  re- 
stricted to  the  L'nited  States.  It  has 
not  been  found  in  anv  writer  liofore 
Dr.  Timothv  Dwight  (1752-1818); 
and  it  probably  originated  with  him. 
He  wrote  a  song,  formerly  very  pop- 
ular, which  began,  — 

"  Columhia.  Columbia,  to  glory  arise. 
The  queen  of  the  world  and  the  child  of  the 
skies." 

iK^  The  ballad  "  Hail.  Columbia,  hap- 
py land,"  was  written  by  Joseph  Hop- 


8£^  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationi^ 


COL 


83 


COP 


kinson  (1770-1842),  for  the  benefit  of  an 
actor  lUiiiieil  Fox,  and  to  an  air  entitled 
••  'I'lie  President's  Mareli,"  composed  in 
178ii,  by  a  Uertnaii  named  Teyles,  on  the 
occasion  of  (Jeueral  W'asliington's  first 
visit  to  a  theater  in  New  York. 

Col'um-btne.  [It.  Colnnibimi^  pretty 
little  d()>e,  —  used  as  a  diminutive 
tenn  of  endearment.]  The  name  of 
a  female  mask  iu  pantomimes,  with 
whom  ilarlecpiin  is  represented  as  iu 
love.  Their  marriage  usually  forms 
the  denounittit  oi'  the  play.  In  the  old 
Italian  eomedy,  she  appeared  as  a 
maid-servant,  and  a  perfect  cocpiette. 

Commander  of  the  Faithful.  [Ar. 
J^mir-nl-Muintnl/i.]  A  title  assumed 
by  Omar  I.  (d.  644),  and  retained  by 
his  successors  in  the  caliphate. 

Company,  John.  A  popular  nick- 
name, among  the  native  East-Indians, 
for  the  East  India  Company,  the 
abstract  idea  involved  in  the  name 
being  above  their  comprehension. 
[Called  also  Muthtr  Coinpany.] 

I  have  jjone  to  the  leeward  of  John  C'oinpan>/\i 
favor.  C.   Rpcitle. 

Co'mus.  [From  Gr.  kwjuo?,  a  revel, 
from  KuJju-r;,  a  country  town,  whence 
a\<,o  comedy.]  {Myth.)  In  the  later 
age  of  Kome,  a  god  of  festive  joy 
and  mirth.  In  Milton's  poem  enti- 
tled "  Comus:  a  Masque,"  he  is  rep- 
resented as  a  base  enchanter,  who 
endeavors,  but  in  vain,  to  beguile 
and  entrap  the  innocent  by  means  of 
his  "  brewed  enchantments." 

Con-cor'di-3.  (Rnm.  Myth.)  The 
goddess  of  concord,  or  harmony. 

Conqueror,  The.  A  title  given  to 
William,  I)nke  of  Normandy,  who, 
by  the  battle  of  Hastings,  in  1066, 
became  the  sovereign  of  llngland. 

Talk  of  "  coniinf!:  over  with  i/ie  Crm/pipr- 
or!"  Tlie  first  Browns  came  over  witli  Hen- 
gist  and  Horsa.  Lower. 

Con'rade.  A  folloAver  of  John  (bas- 
tard brother  of  Don  Pedro,  Prince  of 
Arragon),  in  Shakespeare's  ''Much 
Ado   about  Nothing." 

Nonstable  de  Bourbon.  [Fr.  Con- 
netiible  de  Bourbon.1  {Fr.  Iffsf.)  A 
name  given  to  Charles,  Due  du 
Bourbonnais  (1489-1527),  a  brilliant 
military  leader,  famous  for  his  aus- 
tere morality  and  his  misfortunes. 


Con'stans.  A  legendary  king  of 
Britain,  celel)rated  in  the  old  ro- 
numces  of  chivalry.  He  was  the 
grandfather  of  Arthur. 

Consuelo  (ko'i'sii^a'lo',  34,  62).  The 
heroine  of  George  Sand's  (Mme. 
Dudevant's)  novel  of  tin;  same  name, 
an  impersonation  of  noble  purity 
sustained  amidst  great  teni[)taions. 

Consul  Bib'u-luS.  {lioin.  Jlist.)  A 
colleague  of  Julius  Caesar  in  the  con- 
sulship in  the  year  .59  b.  c.  He  was 
a  man  of  small  ability  and  little  in- 
fluence. After  an  inetfectual  attempt 
to  ojjpose  an  agrarian  law  brought 
forward  hy  Ciesar,  he  shut  himself  up 
in  his  own  house,  and  neither  ap- 
peared in  public  nor  took  part  in  the 
affairs  of  state  during  the  remainder 
of  his  consulship;  whence  it  was  said 
in  joke  that  it  was  the  consulship  of 
Julius  and  Cnesar.  The  name  of  Bib- 
ulus  is  used  proverbially  to  designate 
any  person  who  lills  a  high  othce, 
and  yet  is  a  mere  cipher  in  the  con- 
duct of  atiairs. 

Continental  System,  {Fi:  Hist.) 
The  name  given  to  a  plan  by  which 
Napoleon  I.  endeavored  to  shut  Eng- 
land out  from  all  connection  with  the 
continent  of  Europe.  See  Behlin 
Decree,  Decree  ok  Fontaine- 
liLEAU,  Milan  Decree. 

Conversation  Sharpe.  A  sobriquet 
bestoAved  upon  Richard  Sharpe, 
(1759-1835),  well  known  by  this 
name  in  London  society. 

Conway  Cabal.  {Amer.  Hist.)  A 
name  given  to  a  faction  organized  in 
1777,  for  the  purpose  of  placing  Gen- 
eral Gates  at  the  head  of  the  Conti- 
nental army. 

C6-phet'u-a.  An  imaginary'  African 
king,  of  Avhom  a  legendary  ballad 
toki  that  he  fell  in  love  with  the 
daughter  of  a  beggar,  and  married 
her.  The  piece  is  extant  in  Percy's 
"  Keliques,"  and  is  several  times  al- 
luded to  by  Shakespeare  and  others. 
A  modernized  version  of  the  story  is 
given  by  Tennyson  in  his  poem  en- 
titled "  The  Beggar  jNIaid." 

Yountr  Adam  Cupid,  he  that  shot  so  trim 
When  King  Cophetua  loved  the  beggar-maid. 

Shak. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


COP 


84 


COR 


May  not  a  monarclj  love  a  maid  of  low  de- 
prt-e  ?  Is  nut  Kiiiy;  ( 'o{jUctua  and  the  bt'j;^ar- 
liiuid  a  cose  in  i)oint  ?  Sir  W.  Scult. 

How  it  would  sound  in  sonjj,  thiit  a  great 
nionurcli  liud  declined  his  aftectioiis  u|K>n  the 
dau^'hter  of  a  he^'^ar  .'  Yet,  do  we  feel  the 
inia^'ination  at  all  violated  when  we  read  the 
"true  ballad"  where  King  Co/i/wtiid  wooes 
the  he;;gar-niaid  l'  C'/turlcJi  Lamb. 

Co'pi-a-     {R»m.  Myth.)     The  goddess 

of  jtk'iity. 
Copper  Captain.     Michael  Perez,  a 

Cfk'l>ratcd    cliaracter    in    Beaumont 

and  Fletcher's  comedy,  "  Kule  a  Wile 

and  Have  a  Wife." 

To  this  Conper  Ca/>tnin  [General  Van  Pof- 
fenburgh],  therefore,  was  confided  tlic  com- 
mand of  the  troops  destined  to  protect  tlie 
scuthern  frontier.  W.  Irving. 

Cop'per-fleld,  David.  The  hero  of 
Dickens's  novel  of  the  same  name. 

Copperheads.  A  popular  nickname 
ovi,y;inating  in  the  time  of  the  great 
civil  war  in  the  United  States,  and 
applied  to  a  faction  in  the  North, 
which  was  vei y  generally  considered 
to  be  in  secret  sympathy  with  the  Re- 
bellion, and  to  give  it  aid  and  com- 
fort by  attempting  to  thwart  the 
measures  of  the  government.  The 
name  is  derived  trom  a  poisonous 
sequent  called  the  copperhead  (  Trltj- 
onuceplinlu.->  cuntoi-trir),  whose  bite  is 
considered  as  deadly  as  that  of  the 
rattlesnake,  and  whose  geographical 
range  extends  from  45"  N.  to  Florida. 
The  copperhead,  unlike  the  rattle- 
snake, gives  no  warning  of  its  attack, 
and  is,  therefore,  the  type  of  a  con- 
cealed foe. 

Cordelia.  The  youngest  and  favor- 
ite daughter  of  Lear,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  this  name.     See  Lear. 

Cordiere,  La  Belle.  See  Rope- 
MAKEK,  The  Beautiful. 

Cor-flamTDO.  [That  is,  heart  of  flame.] 
A  character  in  Spenser's  "  Faerv'' 
Queen,"  representing  sensual  pas- 
sion.    See  TiMiAs. 

Corinne  (ko'ren').  The  heroine  of 
Mme.  de  Stael's  novel  of  the  same 
name,  a  young  maiden  whose  lover 
proves  false,  and  who,  in  consequence, 
lives  miserably  a  few  years,  and  then 
closes  her  eyes  for  ever  on  a  world 
grown  dark  and  solitary. 


Cormoran,     Giant.        See     Giant 

CoK.MOlIAN. 

Corn-cracker,  The.   A  popular  nick- 

I       name  or  designation  for  tlie  State  of 

Kt-ntucky.     The  inhal^itants  of  the 

State  lux-  often  calliMl  Corn-crdckers. 

Corn-law  Rhymer,  The.  Ebenezer 
Elliott,  an  English  writer  (1781-1849), 
who,  in  a  volume  of  prtems  entitled 
"•  Corn-law  Riiymes,"  set  forth  the 
mischief  which  he  believed  the  corn 
laws  were  actually  producing,  and 
the  greater  dangers  which  they  were 
threatening.  These  rhyming  philip- 
pics materially  assisted  in  producing 
tjiat  revolt  of  the  manufacturing  pop- 
ulation of  the  British  islands  against 
the  corn  laws  which  led  to  their  (inal 
abolition  in  1846. 

Is  not  the  Corn-Lnir  Rhi/mer  already  a  king, 
thouijh  a  belligerent  one, —  king  of  "his  own 
mind  and  fuculty?  and  what  man  in  the  long 
run  is  king  of  more;"  Curlyle. 

Corn'wall,  Bar'ry.  An  imperfectly 
anagrammatic  7iom  de  plume  adopted 
by  Bryan  Waller  Procter,  a  distin- 
guished P2nglish  poet  of  the  present 
centur3^ 

Co-ro'nis.  [Gr.  Koptui't'?.]  ( Gr.  (/•  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Phoroneus, 
king  of  Phocis.  She  was  metamor- 
phosed by  Minerva  into  a  crow, 
having  implored  her  protection  on 
one  occasion  when  pursued  by  Nep- 
tune. 

Corporal,  The  Little.     See  Little 

COHI'OKAL. 

Corporal  Nym.      See    Nym,    Cor- 

roHAL. 

Corporal   Trim.      See   Trim,   Cor- 

I'ORAL. 

Corporal  Violet.  See  Violet,  Cor- 
poral. 

Corrector,  Alexander  the.  A  name 
assumed  by  Alexander  Cruden  ( 1701- 
1770),  the  author  of  the  well-known 
'"Concordance  to  the  Bible,"  who 
found  employment  for  some  years  as 
corrector  of  the  press,  in  Eondon. 
He  believed  himself  divinely  com- 
missioned to  refonii  the  manners  of 
the  world,  and  petitioned  l^arliament 
to  constituti^  him  Itv  act  the  "Cor- 
rector of  the  People,"  hoping  by  this 


OS"  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   Explanation!, 


COR 


85 


GOV 


means  to  influence  the  people  more 
etFectually. 

It  appears  to  him  that  the  seeming  modesty 
connocti'd  with  the  former  mode  of  writing 
[in  the  tl\ird  person]  is  overbalanced  by 
the  inconvenience  of  stiffness  and  affecta- 
tion which  attends  it  durinj;  a  narrative  of 
some  lenj^th,  and  which  may  be  observed  in 
every  work  in  which  the  third  person  is  used, 
from  the  "  Commentaries  "  of  CiBsar  to  the 
"Autobiography  of  Alexander  the  Corrector." 
Sir  IF.  Scott. 

Corrouge  (kor-roojO-  The  sword 
of  Su-  Otuel; — so  called  in  the  ro- 
mances of  chivalry. 

Corsica  Paoli  (pj'o-lee).  A  name 
poinilarly  given  to  Pasquale  de  Paoli 
(172G-1807),  a  native  of  Corsica,  and 
leader  in  the  war  which  his  country- 
men made  against  Genoa,  and  subse- 
quently against  France,  in  the  eftbrt 
to  gain  their  independence.  After 
the  conquest  of  the  island  by  the 
French,  he  took  refuge  in  England, 
where  he  was  received  with  much 
respect,  and  passed  many  years  in 
honorable  friendship  with  Burke, 
Johnson,  and  other  distinguished 
men  of  the  time. 

Cortana.     See  Curtana. 

Cor'y-ban'tes.  [Gr.  KopvjSavTe?.] 
Priests  of  Cybele  whose  religious 
services  consisted  in  noisy  music  and 
wild  armed  dances. 

Cor'y-don.  A  shepherd  in  one  of  the 
Idyls  of  Theocritus,  and  one  of  thf 
Eclogues  of  Virgil;  —  hence  used  to 
designate  any  rustic,  more  especially 
a  rustic  swain. 

To  obtain  speech  of  him,  I  must  have  run 
the  risk  of  alarming  the  suspicions  of  Dorcas, 
if  not  of  her  yet  more  stupid  Con/ /on. 

Sir  (r.  Scott. 

Hardly  a  shiftless  Cortffon  ftiils  in  walks  of 
art  that  demand  the  loftiest  endowments  of  the 
mind,  —  and  what  crowds  of  such  there  are 
every  year!  —  that  he  or  his  friends  do  not 
parade  him  as  another  example  of  melancholy 
shipwreck,  as  if  he  deserved,  or  could  fairly 
have  anticipated,  any  other  end. 

Putnani's  Mag. 

CoryphsBus  of  Grammarians.    [Gr. 

6    Kopv(f)aLO<;    T(x>v     ypajj-fxaTiKuji' .\         An 

appellation  given  to  Aristarchus,  a 
native  of  Samothrace,  the  most  cele- 
brated grammarian  and  critic  in  all 
antiquity.  His  life  was  devoted  to 
the  correction  of  the  text  of  the  an- 
cient poets  of  Greece,  — Homer,  ^Es- 
chylus,  Sophocles,  &c. 


Cos'tard.  A  clown,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Love's  Labor 's  I^ost,"  who  apes  the 
display  of  wit,  point,  and  sententious 
observation  allected  by  the  courtiers 
of  (.iueen  Elizalxith's  time,  and  who 
misapplies,  in  the  most  ridiculous 
manner,  the  phrases  and  modes  of 
combination  in  argument  that  were 
then  in  vogue. 

Co-tyt'to.  [Gr.  Kotvttw.]  ( Gr.  <f 
Rom.  Myth.)  The  goddess  of  licen- 
tiousness, originally  worshiped  in 
Thrace,  later  in  Athens  also.  Her 
rites  were  celebrated  with  great  inde- 
cency in  private  and  at  midnight. 

Dark-veiled  Cotiitto  !  to  whom  the  secret  flame 
Of  midnight  torches  burns.  Milton. 

Country  Parson.  A  pseudonym,  or 
rather  a  sobriquet,  of  the  Rev.  A.  K. 
H.  Boyd,  a  popular  English  essayist 
of  the  i)resent  time. 

Courtney  Melmoth.  See  Melmoth, 
Courtney. 

Cousin  Michael.  [Ger.  Veiter  Mi- 
chel.] A  S|)ortive  and  disparaging 
designation  of  the  German  people, 
intended  to  indicate  the  weaknesses 
and  follies  of  the  national  character, 
and  especially  the  proverbial  nation- 
al slowness,  heaviness,  and  credulity. 
In  Germany,  the  name  Michel  is 
often  used  as  a  contemptuous  desig- 
nation of  any  simple,  coarse  rustic, 
and  has  prol)ably  acquired  this  sig- 
nitication  through  a  mingling  of  the 
Hebrew  with  the  Old  German  viichtl., 
gross. 

Coventry,  Peeping  Tom  of.  See 
Peeping  Tom  of  Coventry. 

C6v'er-ley,   Sir    Boger    de.      The 

name  of  one  of  the  members  of  the 
imaginary  club  under  whose  direc- 
tion the  "  Spectator  "  was  professedly 
edited;  a  genuine  English  gentleman 
of  the  time  of  Queen  Anne. 

K^  "  The  characters  of  the  club,  not 
only  in  the  '  Tatler,'  but  in  the  '  Specta- 
tor.' were  drawn  by  Steele.  That  of  Sir 
Iloner  de  Coverlev  i.-^  among  the  number. 
Addison  has,  however,  ji'iined  himself 
immortal  honor  by  his  manner  of  filliiij* 
up  this  last  character.  Who  is  there  that 
can  forjifet.  or  be  insensible  to,  the  inimi- 
table,  nameless  jrraces,  and  various  traits 
of  nature  and  of  old  Kntrlish  character 
in  it,  —  to  his  unpretending  virtues  and 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii« 


cov 


86 


CRA 


amiable  weaknesses,  —  to  his  modesty, 
generosity,  hospitality,  and  eccentric 
whims.  —  to  the  respect  of  his  neighbors 
and  the  affection  of  his  domestics.  —  to 
his  wayward,  hopeless,  secret  passion  for 
his  fair  enemy,  tne  widow,  in  which  there 
is  more  of  real  romance  and  true  delicacy 
than  in  a  tliousiind  tales  of  knighter- 
rantrv,  (we  perceive  the  hectic  tlush  of 
his  cheek,  the  faltering  of  his  tougue  in 
spejiking  of  her  bewitching  airs  and  the 
'  whiteness  of  her  hand,')  — to  the  havoc 
he  makes  among  the  game  in  his  neigh- 
borhood. —  to  his  spieech  trom  the  bench, 
to  show  the  '  Spectator  "  what  is  thought 
of  him  in  the  country,  —  to  his  unwill- 
ingness to  be  put  up  as  a  sign-post,  and 
his  having  his  own  Ukeness  turned  into 
the  8anicen"s  head,  —  to  his  gentle  re- 
proof of  the  baggage  of  a  gypsy  that  tells 
him  '  he  has  a  widow  in  his  Hne  of  life,'  — 
to  his  doubts  as  to  the  existence  of  witch- 
craft, and  protectinu  of  reputed  witches, 
—  to  his  account  of  the  family  pictures, 
and  his  choice  of  a  chaplain.  —  to  his  fall- 
ing asleep  at  church,  and  his  reproof  of 
John  Williams,  as  soon  as  he  recovered 
from  his  nap,  for  talking  in  sermon- 
time  ? "  Hazlitt. 

j^'  "  What  would  ?ir  Roger  de  Cover- 
ley  be  without  his  follies  and  his  charm- 
ing little  brain-cracks  ?  If  the  good  knight 
did  not  call  out  to  the  people  sleeping  in 
church,  and  say  •  Amen  ■  with  such  a 
delightful  pomposity  :  if  he  did  not  make 
a  speech  in  the  a^ssize  court  apropos  des 
bottes,  and  merely  to  show  his  dignity  to 
Mr.  Spectator ;  if  he  did  not  mistake 
Madam  Doll  Tearsheet  for  a  lady  of  quality 
in  Temple  Garden  :  if  he  were  wiser  than 
he  is  :  if  he  had  not  his  humor  to  salt 
his  life,  and  were  but  a  mere  English 
gentleman  and  game-preserver.  —  of  what 
worth  were  he  to  us  ?  We  love  him  for 
his  vanities  a.s  much  as  his  virtues. 
What  is  ridiculous  is  delightful  in  him  ; 
we  are  so  fond  of  him  because  we  laugh 
at  him  so."'  Tnacktray. 

The  greitest  risk  which  he  seems  to  have 
incurred,  in  his  military  capacity,  was  one 
bomewhit  resenihlintr  the  escape  of  .SV;-  Roger 
dp  C'orp>-Jp)i\t  ancestor  at  Worcester,  who  was 
saved  from  the  sl-ni^hter  of  that  action  by 
having  been  absent  from  the  field. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

CovieUo  (ko-ve-eMo.  102).  A  Cala- 
brian  clown  who  figures  in  the  "  co?/i- 
merli'i  dtW  arte,""  or  Italian  popular 
comedy. 

Crabshaw,  Timothy.  The  name  of 
Sir  Launcelot  Greaves's  squire,  in 
Smollett's  "Adventures"  of  that 
redoubted  and  quixotic  knight. 


Crabtree.  A  character  in  Smollett's 
novel,  "  The  Adventures  of  Peregrine 
Pickle." 

Cradle  of  Liberty.  A  popular  name 
givfii  to  I'aneuil  (fun'il)  Hall,  a  large 
public  editice  in  Boston,  Ma-^^saehu- 
sett.«,  celebrated  as  being  the  place 
where  the  orators  of  the  Revolution 
roused  the  people  to  resistance  to 
British  oppression. 

Crane,  Ichabod.  The  name  of 
a  credulous  Yankee  schoolmaster, 
whose  adventures  are  related  in  the 
"  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow,"  in 
Irving's  "Sketch-book." 

tj^  ''  The  cognomen  of  Crane  was  not 
inapplicable  to  his  person.  He  was  tall, 
but  exceedingly  lank,  with  narrow  .shoul- 
ders, long  arms  and  legs,  hands  that  dan- 
gled a  mile  out  of  his  sleeves,  feet  that 
might  have  served  for  shovels,  and  his 
whole  frame  most  looselj-  hung  together. 
His  head  was  small,  and  flat  at  top.  with 
huge  ears,  large,  green,  glassy  eyes,  and 
a  long,  snipe  nose,  so  that  it  looked  like 
a  weather-<ock  perched  upon  his  spindle 
neck,  to  tell  which  way  the  wind  blew. 
To  see  him  striding  along  the  profile  of  a 
hill  on  a  windy  day.  with  his  clothes  bag- 
ging and  fluttering  about  him.  one  might 
have  mistaken  him  for  the  genius  of  fam- 
ine descending  upon  the  earth,  or  some 
scarecrow  eloped  from  a  corn-field." 

W.  Irving. 

Crapaud,  Jean,  or  Johnny  (zhoQ 
kra'pf)',  62).  [Sometime?  incor- 
rectly written  Crapeau.]  A  sport- 
ive designation  of  a  P'renchman,  or 
of  the  French  nation  collectively  con- 
sidered. The  following  accoimt  has 
been  given  of  the  origin  of  this 
name :  — 

jg^  "  When  the  French  took  the  city 
of  Aras  from  the  Spaniards,  under  Louis 
XIV.,  after  a  long  and  most  desperate 
siege,  it  wns  remembered  that  Nostrada- 
mus had  said, — 

'  T-cs  anciens  crapauds  prendront  Sara' 
(The  ancient  toads  shall  Sara  take). 

This  line  was  then  applied  to  this  event 
in  a  very  roundabout  manner.  Sara  is 
Aras  backw.ard.  By  the  ancient  toads 
were  meant  the  French  :  as  that  nation 
formerlv  had  for  its  armorial  bearings 
three  of  tho.se  odious  reptiles  instead  of 
the  three  flowers-de-luce  which  it  now 
bears."  Seward's  Anecdotes. 

fl^  In  Elliott's  "  Hor-cB  Apocalyp- 
tic ae "  (vol.  iv.  p.  64,  ed.  1S47),  maybe 


j^-  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations^ 


CRA 


87 


CRO 


found  a  very  full  presentation  of  the 
reasons  for  believing  that  three  toads, 
or  three  trogs,  were  the  old  arms  of 
France. 

Crayon,  G-Soffrey,  Esq.  A  pseu- 
donym under  ^vllit•h  Washington  Ir- 
ving published  "Tlie  Sketch-book." 

Crazy  Poet.     See  Mad  Poet. 

Creakle,  Mr.  A  tyrannous  school- 
master in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  David 
Coppertield; "  represented  as  bully- 
ing the  little  David's  incipient  man- 
liness out  of  him. 

Creole  State.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  the  State  of  Louisiana,  in 
which  the  descendants  of  the  original 
French  and  Spanish  settlers  consti- 
tute a  large  proportion  of  the  popu- 
lation. 

Crescent  City.  A  popular  name  for 
the  city  of  New  Orleans,  the  older 
portion  of  which  is  built  around  the 
convex  side  of  a  bend  of  the  Missis- 
sippi Kivcr.  In  the  progress  of  its 
growth  up-stream,  however,  the  city 
bas  now  so  extended  itself  as  to  lill 
the  hollow  of  a  curve  in  the  oppo- 
site direction,  so  that  the  river-front 

•  presents  an  outline  resembling  the 
character  5. 

Cres'si-da.  The  heroine  of  Shake- 
speare's play,  "  Troilusand  Cressida," 
founded  upon  Chaucer's  "  Troilus 
and  Cresseide ; "  represented  as  beau- 
tiful, witty,  and  accomplished,  but 
impure. 

4®="  "  It  is  well  known  that  there  is  no 
trace  of  the  particular  story  of  '  Troilus 
and  Cressida  '  among  the  ancients.  I  find 
not  so  much  as  the  name  Cressida  once 
mentioned."  Knig/U. 

Cre-u'sa.  [Gr.  Kpeovaa.]  (  Gr.  (f  Boju. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Priam  and 
Hecuba,  and  the  wife  of  iEnoas,  who 
became  by  her  the  father  of  Ascanius. 
When  ^neas  made  his  escape  from 
the  flames  of  Troy,  with  his  father 
Anchises  and  his  son  Ascanius,  she 
folloM'cd  him,  but  was  unable  to  keep 
him  in  sight,  and  became  lost  in  the 
streets  of  the  city. 

So  when  ^Tineas  throup;li  the  flames  of  Troy 
Bore  liis  i)ule  sire,  and  led  liis  lovely  boy  ; 
With  loiti'riivjT  step  the  fair  ('jy-ii.'<(i  stayed, 
And  death  involved  her  in  eternal  shade. 

Darwin. 


CrSy'ton,  Paul  (-tn).  A  pseudonym 
of  J.  T.  Trowbridge,  a  popular  Am(3ri- 
can  novelist  of  the  present  day. 

Crichton,  The  Admirable  (kri'(n). 
James  Crichtou,  a  Scottish  gentleman 
of  the  sixteenth  century,  who,  at  the 
early  age  of  tburteen,  took  his  degree 
of  Master  of  Arts,  and  was  considered 
a  prodigy,  not  only  in  abilities,  but 
in  actual  attainments.  [Written  also 
Creighton.] 

The  editor  of  the  translation  before  us  has 
collected  some  anecdotes,  one  of  which  is  trulv 
singular,  and  calls  to  mind  the  inarvelou'a 
Btories  which  are  told  of  the  Admirable  Creigh- 
ton.^ Edin.  Rev. 

He  [Keyserlin^]  carried  off  all  manner  of 
collejre  prizes,  and  was  the  Admirable  Crich- 
ton of  Kiinigsberg  University  and  the  gradu- 
ates there.  Carlyle. 

Crisp.  One  of  the  names  of  Puck,  or 
Robin  Goodfellow. 

Cris'pin.  1.  The  patron  of  shoe-mak- 
ers, represented  as  such  in  the  cere- 
monial processions  of  the  craft.  He  is 
also  worshiped  as  a  saint  and  martyr 
by  the  Catholic  clun-ch.  About  the 
middle  of  the  third  centurj^,  under  the 
reign  of  Diocletian,  Crispin,  with  his 
brother  Crispian,  accompanied  St. 
Quentin  when  he  preached  the  gospel 
in  France.  The  two  brothers  settled 
at  Soissons,  and,  while  pursuing  their 
mission,  supported  themselves  by 
making  shoes,  until  their  martyr- 
dom, A.  D.  287. 

2.  The  name  of  a  valet  in  French 
comedy ;  —  popularly  used  to  desig- 
nate a  wag  or  jester. 

Cris'pin-Cat'i-line.  A  nickiiame 
fastened  by  IMirabeau  upon  D'Es- 
pre^me^nil,  in  ridicule  of  his  conspira- 
cies. He  seems  to  have  thought  the 
name  of  Catiline  alone  too  respect- 
able, and  therefore  prefixed  that  of 
Crispin,  which  probably  alludes  to  a 
comedy  in  one  act,  pul)lished  in  1707 
by  Le  Sage,  and  called  "  Crispin  the 
Rival  of  his  INIaster."  The  story 
turns  on  the  tricks  of  Crispin  to  gain 
the  affections  of  his  master's  mistress. 

Note  further  our  old  Parlementary  fiiend 
Crinjiin-Cutiline  d'Espremeiiil.  Carlyle. 

Criss  Kringle.  See  Kkiss  Kkingle. 

Croaker.  A  character  in  Goldsmith's 
comedy,  "  The  Good-natured  i\Ian;  " 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


CRO 


88 


CUB 


intended  as  a  caricature  on  men  who 
are  always  tilled  with  groundless 
and  ludicrous  apprehensions. 

The  vouii);  travi'ler  cxpecteil  a  hurst  of  in- 
di'Tiiatiim;  but  whutht-r,  as  <^Vf)'(/,v;siys,  .  .  . 
our  hcn>  hail  exliaustod  hiinsflf  iu  t'rt'ttiiig 
away  his  misfi)rtuncs  Ijeforehaud.  so  that  lie 
did  not  ti't'i  tlu'Mi  when  they  actuallv  arrived, 
or  whi'thcr  ho  found  the  comnauym  which 
lie  was  placed  too  eon;;enial  to  lead  him  to  re- 
pine at  an  v  thin-;  which  delayed  his  journey, 
it  is  certain  that  he  uubmitted  to  his  lot  with 
much  re8i;^nation.  Sir  IV.  Sc-ott. 

Cro'cus.  [Gr.  Kp6>co?.]  (  Gr.  if  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  young  man  who  was  en- 
amored of  the  nvniph  Smilax,  and 
was  ehan!;:ed  by  ("lie  i^ods  into  a  sat- 
fron-plant,  because  he  loved  without 
being  loved  again. 

Croe'sus.  [Gr.  Kporo-o?.]  The  last 
king  of  Lydia,  and  the  richest  nian 
of  his  time. 

Crof  tan-gry,  Chrys'tal.  A  pseudo- 
nym of  Sir  \Valtcr  Scott ;  the  name  of 
the  imaginary  editor  of  his  "  Chroni- 
cles of  the  Canongate." 

Cro'nos.  [(ir.  Kpow?.]  {Gr.  Myth.) 
The  youngest  of  the  Titans;  iden- 
titied '  by  the  Romans  with  Saturn. 
See  Saturn. 

Crow-de'ro  (9).  [From  crowd,  an 
ancient  kind  of  violin.]  A  tiddler 
who  figures  in  Butler's  "  Hudibras." 

To  confirm  him  in  this  favorable  opinion,! 
hejran  to  execute  such  a  complicated  flourish 
as  t  thoujrht  must  have  turned  Crowlero  into 
a  pillar  of  stone  with  envy  and  wonder. 

6"(c  ir.  Scott. 

Crowe,  Captain.  A  celebrated  nauti- 
cal personage  in  Smollett's  "  Adven- 
tures of  Sir  Launcelot  Greaves." 

jgg^  •'  Captaia  Crowe  had  coQinianded 
a  merchant  ship  ia  the  Mediterranean 
trade  for  many  years,  and  saved  some 
money  by  dint  of  frugality  and  trafi&c. 
He  was  an  excellent  seaman,  —  brave,  ac- 
tive, friendly  in  his  way,  and  scrupulously 
honest ;  but  as  little  acquainted  with  the 
world  as  a  sucking  child  ;  whimsical,  im- 
patient, and  so  impetuous  that  he  could 
not  help  breaking  in  upon  the  conversa- 
tion, whatever  it  might  be,  with  repeated 
interruptions,  that  seemed  to  burst  from 
him  by  involuntary  impulse.  When  he 
himself  attempted  to  speak,  he  never 
finished  his  period,  but  made  such  a 
number  of  abrupt  transitions  that  his 
discourse  seemed  to  be  an  unconnected 
series  of  unfinished  sentences,  the  mean- 
ing of  which  it  was  not  easy  to  decipher."    ! 

SmoUttt.    I 


Crowfield,  Christopher.  A  pseudo- 
nym of  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe. 

Crowquill,  A.  A  pseudonym  adopt- 
ed by  Alfred  Henry  Forrester  (b. 
1805),  a  popular  English  humorist 
of  the  i)re.sent  day. 

Cruramles,  Mr.  (kruni'lz).  The  ec- 
centric manager  of  a  theatrical  com- 
pany in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  Xicho- 
las  Nickleby." 

Cru'soe,  Rob'in-son  (-sn).  The  hero 
of  i)e  Foe's  great  iu»vel;  a  shi])- 
wrecked  sailor  who  for  many  years 
leads  a  solitary  existence  on  an  unin- 
habited island  of  the  tropics,  and 
who  alleviates  his  long  reclusion  by 
an  inexhaustible  prodigality  of  con- 
trivance. 

>e!^  De  Foe  founded  this  story  upon 
the  adventures  of  Alexander  Selkirk  yb. 
1676),  a  Scottish  sailor  who  was  left  on 
the  uninliabited  island  of  Juan  Fernandez 
in  1704.  by  his  captain,  one  Straddling, 
to  whom  he  had  given  some  cause  of  of- 
fense. Here  he  resided  for  four  years  and 
four  months,  when  he  was  rescued  by 
Captain  Woods  Rogers,  and  taken  to 
England.  De  Foe  has  often  been  charged 
witli  having  surreptitiously  taken  the 
story  of  Crusoe  from  the  papers  of  Selkirk; 
but  he  can  have  borrowed  little  bi-yond 
the  mere  idea  of  a  man  being  left  alone 
on  a  desert  isle,  there  being  scaicely  any 
thing  common  to  the  adventures  of  the 
real  and  the  fictitious  soUtary. 

There  are  Robinson  Critsoes  in  the  moral  an 
well  as  physical  world  .  .  .  :  men  cii-st  on 
desert  islands  of  thought  and  speculation; 
without  companionship;  without  worldly  re- 
sources; forced  to  arm  and  clothe  themselves 
out  of  the  remains  of  shipwrecked  hopes,  and 
to  make  a  home  for  their  solitary  hearts  in 
the  nooks  and  comers  of  imagination  and 
reading.  Leujh  Hunt. 

What  man  does  not  remember  with  resrret 
the  first  time  that  he  read  Rohitison  Cruxo,'  f 

Jlacaulai/. 

It  soon  became  evident  to  me,  that,  like 
Robin-wn  CYusoe  with  his  boat,  I  had  begun 
on  too  large  a  scale,  and  that,  to  launch  my 
history  successt'ully,  I  must  reduce  its  propor- 
tions. }V.  Irving. 

Crystal  Hills.  An  old  name  for  the 
White  Mountains,  in  New  Hamp- 
shire, sometimes  used  by  modern 
writers. 

We  had  passed 
The  hiirh  source  of  the  Saco;  and,  bewildered 
In  the  dwarf  spruce-belts  of  the  Cn/stnl  //(7/.<. 
Had  heard  above  us,  like  a  voice  in  the  cloud, 
Theliorn  of  Fabyan  sounding.  U'/titticr. 

Cu'bit-op'o-lis.     S^e  Mesopotamia. 


OS"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


CUD 


89 


CUT 


Cuddie,  Headrigg.    See  Headrigg, 

Ctddik. 
Cuffee,  or  Cuffey.  A  familiar  or 
coiitL'inj)tuous  name  api)lii;cl  to  ne- 
groes. The  word  is  saitl  to  be  of 
African  origin,  and  it  has  been  borne 
as  a  surnanie.     See  Sambo. 

Africa  alone,  of  all  nations,  —  though  Turkey 
has  a  leaning  that  way,  —  setn  up  fatness  as  a 
etandaril  of  beauty.  But  Cnfi't'//  is  not  ac- 
knowledired  by  the  rest  of  the  world  as  the 
arbiter  eU<iantiaruin.  Putiiuiii'g  Men/. 

Cunc-ta'tor.  [I.at.,  the  dela^-er.]  A 
surname  given  to  the  ilhistrious  Ro- 
man general,  ()nintus  Kabius  INIaxi- 
mus  Verrucosus  (d.  u.  c.  2();3),  on  ac- 
count of  his  cautious  but  salutary 
measures  in  opposing  the  progress  of 
Hannibal.  He  avoided  all  direct 
engagements,  tantalized  the  enemy 
with  marches  and  counter-marches, 
watched  his  movements  with  imre- 
mitting  vigilance,  cut  off  his  strag- 
glers and  foragers,  and  compelled 
him  to  weary  his  allies  by  necessary 
exactions,  and  to  dishearten  his  sol- 
diers by  fruitless  maneuvers,  while 
Rome  gained  by  the  delay,  and  as- 
sembled her  forces  in  greater  strength. 

If  Wellinfrton  found  it  judicious  to  play  the 
Cunctutor  in  PortURnl  and  Spain,  he  would 
hardly  have  followed  the  Fabian  tactics,  if  he 
had  met  the  French  in  England.  Szabad. 

Cun6gonde,  Mmle.  (kii'nft'gond', 
34-,  62).  The  mistress  of  Candide  in 
Voltaire's  novel  of  this  name. 

Bright  goddess  [the  moon],  if  thou  art  not 
too  busy  with  Candid  and  Minx  Cnner/iaid's 
affairs,  take  Tristram  Shandy's  under  thiv  pro- 
tection also.  AVe/-He. 

Ca'pid.  [Lat.  Cupido.']  (  Gr.  (.f  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  son  of  Mars  and  Venus; 
the  god  of  love.  He  was  the  con- 
stant companion  of  his  mother,  and, 
armed  with  bow  and  arrows,  he  shot 
the  darts  of  desire  into  the  bosoms 
of  both  gods  and  men.  He  was  rep- 
resented as  a  winged  child  or  youth, 
and  often  with  a  bandage  covering 
his  eyes. 

Cu'ran.  A  courtier,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  "  Lear." 

Curate  of  Meudon  (mo'don',  43,  62). 
[Fr.  La  Cure  de  Mtwlon.']  A  name 
by  which  Rabelais  (1483-1553),  the 
French  satirjt^t,  is  often  refei-red  to. 
He  was,  during  the  latter  part  of  his 
life,  the  parish  priest  of  Meudon. 


Cu'ri-ft'ti-i  (0,23).  Three  Albanian 
brothers,  who,  according  to  an  old 
Roman  legend,  fouglit,  in  the  time 
of  Tullus  llostilius,  with  three  Ro- 
man brothers,  the  lioratii,  and  were 
conquered  by  the  cunning  and  brav- 
ery of  one  of  them. 

Cu'ri-o.  A  gentleman  attending  on 
the  Duke  of  lllvria  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Twelfth  Nigirt." 

Curious  Impertinent,   The.      [Sp. 

El  Curiuso  lmptrtin{'tit(\^  The  title 
of  a  "  novel  "  or  tale  introduced  by 
Cervantes  into  his  "Don  (Quixote" 
by  way  of  episode,  and  a  designation 
of  one  of  the  characters  in  it,  an 
Italian  gentleman  who  is  foolish 
enough  to  make  trial  of  his  wife's 
virtue  —  of  which  he  is  firmly  con- 
vinced —  by  persuading  a  trusted 
friend  to  seem  to  lay  siege  to  it.  He 
suffers  the  deserved  penalty  of  his 
impertinent  curiosity  in  the  treach- 
ery of  his  friend  and  the  intidelity  of 
his  wife. 

Ctir-ta'na.  [It.,  the  short ener; — so 
called  from  its  being  used  to  cut  off 
heads.]  1.  The  sword  of  Ogier  the 
Dane. 

2.  The  sword  of  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor, which  is  borne  before  the 
kings  of  England  at  their  coronation. 
It  has  a  blunted  edge  as  being  em- 
blematical of  mercy,  and  is  carried 
between  the  swords  of  justice  tempo- 
ral and  justice  spiritual. 

Cur'ti-o  (kur'shi-o).  A  servant  to 
Petruchio,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Tam- 
ing of  the  Shrew." 

Cutpurse,  Moll,  or  Mall.  A  pseudo- 
nym of  ^lary  Frith,  a  notorious  char- 
acter frequently  mentioned  or  allud- 
ed to  by  the  older  English  writers. 
She  is  the  heroine  of  IMiddletiHi's 
comedy  entitled  "  The  Roaring  Girl," 
and  is  introduced  by  Kat.  Field,  a 
contemporary  dramatist,  in  his  piece 
called  "  Amends  for  Ladies." 

Cuttle,  Captain.  A  character  in 
Dickens's  "  Dombey  and  Son,"  com- 
bining great  humor,  eccentricity,  and 
pathos.  He  is  distinguished  for  his 
simplicity,  credulity,  and  generous 
trustfulness.     One  of  his  famous  ex- 


and  for  the  lieuiarks  and  Ru'es  to  which  the  numbers  after  cei-tain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


CYB 


90 


CYT 


pressions  is,  "  When  found,  make  a 
note  of." 

Are  there  any  of  you,  my  readers,  who  have 
not  rciid  the  "  Life  of  Kohert  Hall"  t  If  so,  in 
the  words  of  the  great  Caiitain  ( 'utfir,  "  Wlien 
(oiiiid,  make  u  note  of  it.  Never  mind  what 
your  tlieologieal  opinion  is,  .  .  .  send  for 
Koli.Tt  Hull.  SirE.  JUtlwer  Lytton. 

Cyb'e-le.  {Rom.  Myth.)  Thedau^di- 
tcr  <tf  C'fL'liis  and  Tirra,  and  tlic  wife 
of  Saturn  ;  the  same  as  the  lihtu 
and  0/As-  of  the  (jreeks.  She  is  rep- 
resented as  wearing  a  mural  erown, 
and  riding  in  a  chariot  drawn  by 
lion.s,  or  seated  on  a  throne  with  lions 
at  her  side.  [Called  also  Bona  Dta 
and  Afutlier  of  the  Uods.] 

Mi»ht  she  the  wise  Latona  be, 
Or  the  towered  C'l/bele, 
Mother  of  a  hundred  gods? 
Juno  dares  not  give  her  odds.         ililton. 
She  looks  a  sea-Ci/hele,  fresh  from  ocean, 

Rising  with  her  tiara  of  proud  towers. 
At  airy  dist:ince,  with  majestic  motion, 
A  riiler  of  the  waters  and  their  powers. 

Byron  (on  Feni'ce). 

Cy 'clops.  [Lat.  Cycb'pes,  Gr.  Kv/cAoj- 
Tre?,  the  round-eyed.]  (  Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  gigantic  one-eyed  race  of 
men  inhabiting  the  sea-coasts  of  Si- 
cily, sons  of  Ctelus  and  Terra.  Ac- 
cording to  Hesiod,  they  were  three  in 
number,  and  their  names  were  Arges, 
Steropes,  and  Brontes.  Homer  de- 
scribes them  as  wild,  insolent,  law- 
less shepherds,  who  devoured  human 
beings.  A  later  tradition  represents 
them  as  Vulcan's  assistants  in  fabri- 
cating the  thunderbolts  of  Jupiter. 
See  Polyphemus. 

Cyl-le'ni-us.  [Gr.  KvAATyvio?.]  (Gr. 
ff-  Rom.  Jfyth.)  A  surname  of  Mer- 
cury, derived  from  ]Mount  Cyllene.  in 
Arcadia,  where  he  was  born. 

CymTDe-line,  or  Cym'be-line.  A 
legendary  or  mythical  king  of  Brit- 
ain, and  the  hero  of  Shakespeare's 
play  of  the  same  name. 


Cyn'o-sure.       [Lat.     Cynosurn,     Gr. 

Kvi'otroupa.]  (6'/".  i^-  Rom.  Myth.)  An 
Ida-an  nymph,  and  one  of  the  nurses 
of  Jupiter,  wh(»  placed  her  in  the 
constellation  Ursa  Minor,  an  the  pole- 
star. 

Towers  and  battlements  it  sees 
Hosomed  high  in  tutted  trees. 
Where  perhaps  some  beauty  lies. 
The  Cynosure  of  neighboring  eyes. 

MUon. 

Cyn'thi-a.  [Gr.  KwOia.]  }  (  Gr.  t/ 
Cyn'thi-us.  [Gr.  Ku^etos.]  \  Rom. 
Myth.)  Surnames  respectively  of  Di- 
ana and  Apollo. — hence iijjplied  to  the 
sun  and  moon, — derived  from  Mount 
Cynthus,  in  the  island  of  Delos.  their 
birthplace.      See  Apollo.  Diana. 

Even  Cynthia  looks  haggard  of  an  after- 
noon, as  we  may  see  her  sonietimes  in  the 
present  winter  season,  with  Phccbus  staring 
her  out  of  countenance  from  the  ojjposite  side 
of  tlie  heavens.  Tfinckeruy- 

Cyp'a-ris'sus.  [Gr.  KuTrapto-o-o?.]  {Gr. 
tf  Rom.  Myth.)  A  beautiful  youth, 
beloved  by  Apollo,  whose  favorite 
stag  he  inadvertently  killed,  in  con- 
sequence of  which  immoderate  grief 
seized  upon  him,  and  he  was  meta- 
morphosed into  a  cypress. 

Cy-re'ne.  [Gr.  KvpTjioj.]  (  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  water-nymph,  the  mother 
of  Arista?us.  Her  residence  under  tlie 
Peneus,  and  the  visit  of  her  son  to  her, 
are  described  in  a  beautiful  episode  in 
the  fourth  book  of  Virgil's  ''Geor- 
gics." 

Cy-the'ra.     [Gr.  Ki)0>jpa.]        )  ( Gr.  (f 

Cyth''e-re'a.  [Gr.  Kveepeia.]  )  Riym. 
Myth. )  Different  forms  of  a  surname 
of  Venus,  derived  from  the  town  ot 
Cythera,  in  Crete,  or  the  isle  of  Cy- 
thera,  where  the  goddess  was  said  to 
have  first  landed,  and  where  she  had 
a  celebrated  temple. 

Violets  dim. 
But  sweeter  than  the  lids  of  Juno's  ej'es. 
Or  Cyt/ierea's  breath.  Shak: 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Schenae  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   Explanatioui, 


D^ 


91 


DAM 


D, 


Daed'a-lus  (17).  [Gr.  AatSaAo?.]  {Gr. 
ij'-  Rum.  Myth.)  A  most  ingenious 
artist  of  Athens,  who  tbrnied  the 
famous  Cretan  labyrinth,  and  who, 
by  the  help  of  wings  which  lie  con- 
structed, tied  from  Crete  across  the 
^gean  Sea,  to  escape  the  resentment 
of  Alinos.  He  was  thought  to  be  the 
inventor  of  carpentry  and  of  most  of 
its  tools,  such  as  the  saw,  the  ax,  the 
gimlet,  and  the  like.    See  IcAuus. 

Da'gon.  [A  diminutive  of  the  Heb. 
t/a^,  a  tish.]  (Myth.)  A  Phoeniciau 
or  Syrian  divinity,  who,  according 
to  the  Bible,  had  richly  adorned  tem- 
ples in  several  of  the  Philistine  cities. 
In  profane  history,  the  name  by  which 
he  is  known  is  JJtrcttu.  He  is  repre- 
sented as  having  the  face  and  hands 
of  a  man  and  the  tail  of  a  fish ;  and 
he  seems  to  have  been  generally  re- 
garded as  a  symbol  of  fertility  and 
reproduction.  See  ^MfZ/yes  xvi.  23 ;  1 
Sam.  v.  4. 

Next  came  one 
Who  mourned  in  earnest,  when  the  captive 

ark 
Mainu'd  his  brute  image,  head   and   hands 

lopped  off 
In  his  own  temple,  on  the  grunsel  edge. 
Where  he  fell  flat,  and  shamed  his  worship- 
ers: 
Dufjon  his  name;  sea-monster,  upward  man 
And  downward  fish:  yet  hud  his  temple  high 
Reared  in  Azotus,  dreaded  tlirough  the  coast 
Of  Palestine,  in  Gath  aiid  Ascalon, 
And  Accaron  and  Gaza's  frontier  bounds. 

Milton. 

Dag'o-net,  Sir.  The  attendant  fool 
of  King  Arthur.  [Written  also 
Daguenet.] 

I  was  then  Sir  Dagonet  in  Arthur's  show. 

Skuk. 

Dal-gar'no,  Lord.  A  prominent 
character  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  "  For- 
tunes of  Nigel;  "  a  profligate  young 
Scottish  lord,  thoroughly  heartless 
and  shameless,  who  earned  "  the 
craft  of  gray  hairs  under  his  curled 
love-locks." 

Dal-get'ty,  Rittmaster  Dii'gaid. 
A  mercenary  soldier  of  fortune  in  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  "  Legend  of  jNIont- 
rose,"  distinguished  for  his  pedantry, 
conceit,  cool  intrepiduy,  vulgar  as- 


surance, knowledge  of  the  world, 
greediness,  and  a  hundred  other 
qualities,  making  him  one  of  the 
most  amusing,  admirable,  and  nat- 
ural characters  ever  drawn  by  the 
hand  of  genius. 

^^  "  The  general  idea  of  the  charac- 
ter is  familiar  to  our  tomic  dmniatists 
after  the  Restoration,  atid  may  be  said  in 
some  nieiisure  to  be  ( onipounded  of  Cap- 
tain Fluellen  and  Bobadil  ;  but  the  ludi- 
crous conibiuation  of  the  soldada  with 
the  divinity  student  of  Mareschal  College 
is  entirely  original."  Jfffrey. 

Our  second  remark  is  of  the  circimistance 
that  no  Historian  or  Kiirrator,  neither  Schil- 
ler, Strada,  Thuanus,  Monroe,  nor  Ijv(/<ttd 
Dal^etty,  makes  any  mention  of  Ahasner's 
having  been  present  at  the  battle  of  J-iitzen. 

C  ariyle. 

He  [a  hack  author]  lets  out  his  pen  to  the 
highest  bidder,  as  Captain  Ualgcttj/  kt  out  his 
sword.  J'J.  1'.  Whipple. 

Damis  (da'me').  A  character  in 
Moliere's  comedy  of '' Tartufie,"  dis- 
tinguished by  his  self-willed  impetu- 
osity. 

Dam'o-clS§.  [Gr.  Aa/uoKAf/?.]  A 
courtier  of  the  elder  Dionysius,  the 
tyrant  of  Syracuse.  Having  extolled 
tlie  happiness  caused  by  the  pos- ses- 
sion of  wealth  and  power,  iJionysins 
gave  him  a  striking  illustration  of  the 
real  nature  of  such  seeming  happiness, 
by  placing  him  at  a  table  loaded  with 
delicacies,  and  surrounded  b}*  all  I  he 
insignia  of  royalty,  but,  in  the  midst 
of  his  magnificent  banquet,  Danio- 
cles,  chancing  to  h.ok  upward,  .aw 
a  sharp  and  naked  sword  sui-pended 
over  his  head  by  a  f-ingle  horse-luiir. 
A  sight  so  alarming  instantly  changed 
his  views  of  the  felicity  of  kings. 

Like  Damocles  at  liis  cclebrsitpd  bniiqiict, 
Rebecca  perpetually  beheld,  snuid  the  jior- 
geous  display,  the  sword  which  wassu.'^pended 
over  the  heads  of  her  people  by  a  single  hnir. 
.S'jV  W.  Scott. 
On  what  X'amocfe'?- hairs  must  the  judg- 
ment-sword hang  over  this  distracted  earth. 

( 'arhjle. 

Da-raoe'-tas.  A  herdsman  in  Theoc- 
ritus and  Virgil ;  hence,  any  herds- 
man or  rustic. 

Rough  satyrs  danced,  and  fauns  with  cloven 
lieel 


a»d  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


DAM 


92 


DAN 


From  the  glad  sound  would  not  be  absent 

lonjj ; 
And  old  iJamcetas  loved  to  hear  our  song. 

Milton. 

Da'raSn.  [Gr.  Ad/xwr.]  1.  A  noble 
rvtluxi^orean  of  Syracuse,  memorable 
fur  lii.s  I'rieiulship  lur  I'ythias,  or 
Phintias,  a  member  of  the  same  sect. 
The  latter,  liaviiif;  been  condemned 
to  death  b\'  Dionysius  1.,  the  tyrant 
of  Syracuse,  begji^ed  leave  to  go  home 
for  the  pui-pose  of  arranging  his  af- 
fairs, Damon  pledging  his  own  life 
for  the  return  of  his  friend.  Dio- 
nysius  consented,  and  Pythias  came 
back  just  in  season  to  save  Damon 
from  death.  Struck  by  so  rare  and 
noble  an  example  of  mutual  friend- 
ship, the  tyrant  pardoned  Pythias, 
and  entreated  to  be  admitted  as  a 
third  into  their  sacred  fellowship. 

2.  A  goat-herd  in  the  third  Eclogue 
of  Virgil ;  hence,  any  rustic  or  swain. 

Damsel  of  Brittany.  A  name  given 
to  Eleanora,  daughter  of  Geotti-ey, 
third  son  of  Henry  II.  of  England, 
and  Duke  of  Brittany  by  marriage 
with  Constance,  the  daughter  and 
heiress  of  Duke  Conan  1 V. 

4®=  Richard,  the  successor  of  Ilenry, 
dying  without  issue,  the  Enjrlish  crown 
rightfully  devolved  upon  Arthur,  the  .<oa 
of  Geoffrey  ;  but  .lohn,  the  brother  of 
Kichard,  and  the  youngest  of  the  sons  of 
Henry,  determined  to  secure  it  to  him- 
self, lie,  therefore,  managed  to  capture 
the  young  prince,  his  nephew,  and  con- 
signed him  to  close  custody,  first  in  the 
eastle  of  Falaise.  and  afterward  at  Rouen, 
where  he  is  supposed  to  have  munlered 
him  by  his  own  hand.  Arthur  being 
dead,  the  next  in  the  order  of  succession 
was  Eleanor,  his  sister.  John,  however, 
obtained  possession  other  person,  carried 
her  to  Kngland,  and  confined  her  in  the 
castle  of  Bristol,  in  which  jjrison  she  re- 
mained till  her  death,  in  124l. 

Dan'i-e.  [Gr.  AavaY?.]  ( G?\  </•  Rojn. 
Mijth.)  The  daughter  of  Acrisius, 
and  the  mother  of  Perseus  by  Jupi- 
ter, who  visited  her  in  the  fonn  of  a 
shower  of  gold  when  she  was  shut 
up  in  a  tower  by  her  father. 

Da-na'i-des.  [Lat.;  Gr.  AavaiSe?.] 
{Gr.  if  l{i,m.  Myth.)  The  fifty 
daughters  of  Danaus,  king  of  Argos, 
betrothed  to  the  lifty  sons  of  ^Egyp- 
tus,  all  of  whom  they  killed  on  the 


first  night  after  marriage,  in  fulfill- 
ment Ota  promise  exacted  by  Danaus, 
Lynceus  alone  excepted,  who  was 
spared  by  his  wife  ilypemniestra. 
lier  guilty  sisters  were  punished  for 
their  crime,  in  llades,  by  being  com- 
pelled everlastingly  to  draw  water 
out  of  a  deep  well,  and  pour  it  into  a 
ves.sel  full  of  holes. 

Dandie  Dinmont.  See  Dinmont, 
Dandik. 

Dandin,  George  (zhofzh  dou'dan',  58, 
t)2,  04).  The  title  of  a  comedy  by  Mo- 
liere,  and  the  name  of  its  hero,  a 
wealthy  French  citizen,  who  has  had 
the  impudence  to  marry  a  sprig  of 
quality,  daughter  of  an  old  noble 
called  Monsieur  de  Sotenville,  and 
his  no  less  noble  spouse,  Madame  de 
la  Prudoterie,  and  who,  in  conse- 
quence, is  exposed  at  once  to  the 
coquetry  of  a  light-headed  wife,  and 
to  the  rigorous  sway  of  her  parents, 
who,  called  upon  to  interpose  with 
their  authority,  place  their  daughter 
in  the  right,  and  the  unhappy  mtur- 
ritr.,  their  son-in-law,  in  the  wrong, 
on  every  appeal  which  is  made  to 
them.  Falling,  in  consequence  of 
this  mesfilUance,  into  many  disagree^ 
able  situations,  he  constantly  ex- 
claims, "  Til  I' as  raulu,  Georcjt  D  ni- 
flln,'"  You  would  have  it  so,  George 
Dandin.  The  expression  has  hence 
become  proverbial  to  denote  self-in- 
flicted pain,  and  the  name  is  common- 
ly applied  to  any  silly,  simple-minded 
fellow. 

If  yon  have  really  been  fool  enough  to  fall 
in  love  there,  and  have  a  mind  to  play  Geori/e 
Dandin,  I'll  find  j'ou  some  money  for  the 
part.  C.  Reade. 

Dandin,  Perrin  (per'rrin'  d6"'dan', 
62.)  1.  The  name  of  an  ignorant  rustic 
judge  in  Kabelais,  Avho  heard  causes 
sitting  on  the  first  trunk  of  a  tree 
which  he  met,  instead  of  seating  him- 
self, like  other  judges,  on  the  fieurs- 
de-lis. 

2.  The  name  of  a  ridiculous  judge, 
in  Kacine's  comedy,  "  LesPlaideurs," 
and  in  La  Fontaine's  "  Fables." 

Dangle.  A  prominent  character  in 
Sheridan's  farce,  "  The  Critic  ;  "  one 
of  those  theatrical  amateurs  who  be- 
siege   a   manager  with   impertinent 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


DAN 


93 


DAV 


flattery  and  f^ratuitous  advice.  He 
is  said  to  have  been  iiitoiuled  for  a 
Mr.  Thomas  Vauyhaii,  author  of 
"  The  Hotel,"  an  indilferently  suc- 
cessful i)lay. 

Daniel,  The  "Well-languaged.  A 
name  j;iven  by  William  Browne 
(15U0-l()-i5),  in  his  "  Britannia's 
Pastorals,"  to  the  English  poet 
Samuel  Daniel  (1562-1619),  whose 
writings  are  remarkable  for  their 
modern  style  and  pervading  purity 
of  taste  and  grace  of  language. 

Daph'ne.  [Gr.  Aaf/jvrj.]  (  <jr.  cp  Earn. 
Mijtli.)  A  beautiful  maiden  beloved 
by  Apollo,  and  metamorphosed  into 
a  laurel-tree  while  attempting  to  es- 
cape from  him. 

Naj',  lady,  sit;  if  I  but  wave  this  wand, 
Your  nerves  are  all  chained  up  in  alabaster, 
And  you  a  statue,  or,  as  Daphne  was, 
Koot-bound,  that  fled  Apollo.  Milton. 

Daph'nis.  [Gr.  Aa(f)i'is.]  (  Gr.  ^^  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  beautiful  young  Sicilian 
shepherd,  a  son  of  Mercury.  He  was 
the  inventor  of  bucolic  poetry,  and  a 
favorite  of  Pan  and  Apollo. 

Dapper.  A  clerk  in  "  The  Alchemist," 
a  play  by  Ben  Jonson. 

This  reminds  us  of  the  extreme  doting  at- 
tachment which  the  queen  of  the  fairies  is  rep- 
resented to  have  taken  for  Diqyper. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Dapple.  The  name  of  Sancho's  ass, 
in  Cervantes's  romance  of  "  Don 
Quixote." 

Dar'by  and  Joan.  A  married  couple 
said  to  have  lived,  more  than  a  cen- 
tury ago,  in  the  village  of  Healaugh, 
in  the  West  Riding  of  Yorkshire,  and 
celebrated  for  their  long  life  and  con- 
jugal felicity.  They  are  the  hero 
and  heroine  of  a  ballad  called  "  The 
Happy  Old  Couple,"  which  has  been 
attributed  to  Prior,  but  is  of  uncer- 
tain authorship.  Timperley  says  that 
Darby  was  a  printer  in  Bartholomew 
Close,  who  died  in  1730,  and  that 
the  ballad  was  MTitten  by  one  of  his 
apprentices  by  the  name  of  Henry 
Woodfall. 

Yon  niJKht  have  sat,  like  Darby  and  Jonn, 
and  flattered  each  other;  and  liilled  and  cooed 
like  a  pair  of  pigeons  on  a  perch.     Thackeray. 

Indeed  now,  if  you  would  but  condescend 
to  forgive  and  forget,  perhaps  some  day  or 
other  we  mav  be  Dartiii  and  .Joan,  —  only,  you 
Bee,  just  at  this  moment  I  am  really  not  worthy 
of  such  a  Juan.  Sir  E.  Jiulwer  Lytton. 


Dar'da-nus,  [Gr.  Aap5avo5.]  ( Gr.  if 
Rom.  M ijlli.)  'i'he  son  of  Jupiter  and 
Elect ra  of  Arcadia,  and  ancestor  of 
the  royal  race  of  Troy. 

Da'res  (U).  One  of  the  competitors  at 
the  funeral  games  of  Anchises  in 
Sicily,  described  in  the  tifth  book  of 
Virgil's  "  vEneid."  He  was  over- 
come at  the  combat  of  the  cestus  by 
Entellus. 

A  Trojan  combat  would  be  something  new: 
I^et  Dares  beat  Entellus  black  and  blue. 

Coicper. 

Dark  and  Bloody   Ground,  The. 

An  expression  often  used  in  allusion 
to  Kentucky,  of  which  name  it  is 
Faid  to  be'  the  translation.  The 
phrase  is  an  epitome  of  the  early 
history  of  the  State,  of  the  dark  and 
bloody  contlicts  of  the  tirst  white 
settlers  with  their  savage  foes;  but 
the  name  originated  in  the  iact  that 
this  was  the  grand  battle-ground 
between  the  northern  and  southern 
Indians. 

Dark  Day,  The.  May  19,  1780;  — 
so  called  on  account  of  a  remarkable 
darkness  on  that  day  extending  over 
all  New  England.  In  some  places, 
persons  could  not  see  to  read  common 
print  in  the  open  air  ibr  several  hours 
together.  Birds  sang  their  evening 
song,  disappeared,  and  became  silent; 
fowls  went  to  roost;  cattle  sought  the 
barn-yard ;  and  candles  were  lighted 
in  the  houses.  The  obscuration  be- 
gan about  ten  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  continued  till  the  middle  of 
the  next  night,  but  with  ditferences 
of  degree  and  duration  in  ditlerent 
places.  For  several  days  previous, 
the  wind  had  been  variable,  but 
chiefly  from  the  southwest  and  the 
northeast.  The  true  cause  of  this  re- 
markable phenomenon  is  not  known. 

David.    See  Jonathan. 

DaVus.  The  name  commonly  given 
to  slaves  in  Latin  comedies.  The 
proverb,  '■'■  Davus  sum.,  mm  CEih'pus,^^ 
I  am  Davus,  not  (Edipus,  (that  is,  a 
simple  servant,  not  a  resolver  of  rid- 
dles,) occurs  in  Terence. 

Da'vy.  Servant  to  Shallow,  in  the 
Second  Part  of  Shakespeare's  "  King 
Henry  IV." 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  whieh  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


DAV 


94 


DEA 


Old  Gudyill  nssocintod  himself  with  a  party 
BO  much  to  his  taste,  pretty  much  as  Davy  in 
the  revels  of  his  master,  Justice  Shallow. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Davy  Jones.     See  Jones,  Davy. 

Daw'son,  Bully  (-sn).  A  noted  Lon- 
don sharper,  s\v'at,'^a'rer,  and  de- 
bauchee, especially  in  IMacktViars  and 
its  infamous  purlieus,  lie  lived  in 
the  seventeenth  century,  and  was  a 
contemporary  ot"  IJochester  and  Eth- 
erege.  An  allusion  to  him  occurs  in 
the  "  Spectator,"  No.  2. 

Tom  brown  had  a  slirewder  insight  into 
this  kind  of  cliaracter  than  either  of  his  pred- 
ecessors, lie  divides  the  palm  more  equably, 
and  allows  his  hero  a  sort  of  dimidi  ite  pre- 
eminence:—  "  Jliilhi  Ihiirson  kicked  by  half 
the  town,  and  half  tlic  town  kicked  bv'  /iiil/ij 
Dawiion."  This  was  true  retributive  justice. 
C/iarIr<f  Lainh. 

"When,  in  our  cooler  moments,  we  reflect  on 
his  [Homer's]  Jove-protected  warriors,  his  in- 
vulnerable Achilles,  they  dwindle  into  insig- 
nificance, and  we  are  ready  to  exclaim,  in  the 
quaint  laiiguage  of  another,  "  /iulli/  Ddivxoii 
would  have  fougnt  the  Devil  witii  such  ad- 
vantages." Jones  Very. 

Day  of  Barricades.  [Fr.  Journce  des 
£urrir',(/c.^.]  {Fr.  f/ist.)  1.  May 
12,  1588,  on  which  day  the  Duke  of 
Guise  entered  Paris,  when  Henry  III., 
at  his  instigation,  consented  to  take 
severe  measures  against  the  '  [ugue- 
nots,  on  the  promise  that  th  ■  duke 
would  assist  him  in  purging  Paris  of 
strangers  and  obnoxious  persons.  No 
sooner,  however,  was  an  attempt 
made  to  carry  out  this  plan,  than  the 
populace  arose,  erected  barricades, 
and  attacked  the  king's  troops  wath 
irresistible  fury.  Henry  III.,  having 
requested  the  Duke  of  Guise  to  put  a 
stop  to  the  conflict,  fled  from  Paris, 
and  the  moment  the  duke  showed 
himself  to  the  people,  they  pulled 
down  the  barricades. 

2.  August  2G,  1G48 ;  —  so  called  on 
account  of  a  riot,  instigated  by  the 
leaders  of  the  Fronde,  which  took 
place  in  Paris  on  that  day. 

Day  of  Corn-sacks.  [Fr.  Journee 
(/es  FiiriiH'S.]  {Fr.  flist.)  A  name 
given  to  the  3d  of  January,  151)1, 
from  an  attempt  made  by  Henry  IV. 
to  surprise  Paris  on  that  day.  Some 
of  his  officers,  disguised  as  corn- 
dealers,  with  sacks  on  their  shoul- 
ders, endeavored  to  get  possession  of 
the  gate  St.  Honore ;  but  they  Avere 


recognized,  and  obliged  to  make  a 
hasty  retreat. 
Day  of  Dupes.  [Fr.  Journee  des 
JJnj)es.]  (Fr.  Hist.)  1.  A  name 
given  to  the  11th  of  November,  l(j;iO, 
in  allusion  to  a  celeljrated  imbroglio 
by  which  the  opponents  of  the  prime 
minister  Richelieu  —  at  the  head  of 
whom  were  Maria  de'  Medici  and 
Anne  of  Austria  —  Avere  completely 
worsted  in  an  attempt  to  ettect  lii.s 
removal  trom  office,  and  the  power 
of  the  cardinal  was  estabhshed  upon 
a  firmer  basis  than  ever. 

Richelieu  himself  could  not  have  taken  a 
gloomier  view  of  things,  when  his  levees  were 
deserted,  and  his  power  seemed  annihilated 
before  the  Day  of  Jjujjcs. 

Sir  E.  Buhver  Liitton. 

2.  Angnst  4th,  1789;  —  so  called 
on  account  of  the  renunciation  by  the 
nobles  and  clergy  in  the  French 
National  Convention  of  their  peculiar 
immunities  and  feudal  rights. 

Day  of  Gold  Spurs.  [Fr.  Journee 
des  Eperons  d  0/:]  See  Battle  of 
Spuhs. 

Day  of  the  Sections.  [Fr.  Journee 
des  Sections]  (Fr.  Ilist.)  The  name 
commonly  given  to  an  affray  which 
occuiTed  on  the  4th  of  October,  1793, 
between  the  troops  under  the  control 
of  the  Convention  and  the  National 
Guard  acting  in  the  interest  of  the 
sections  of  Paris.  The  contest  re- 
sulted in  the  success  of  the  Conven- 
tion. 

Dean  of  St.  Patrick's.  A  title  of 
Jonathan  Swift  (1667-1745),  the  cele- 
brated English  satirist,  by  which  he 
is  often  referred  to.  The  deanery  of 
St.  Patrick's  is  in  Dublin.  Swift 
was  appointed  to  the  place  in  1713, 
and  retained  it  until  his  death. 

Deans,  Douce  Da'vie.  A  poor  cow- 
feeder  at  Edinburgh,  and  the  father 
of  Effie  and  Jeanie  Deans,  in  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  novel.  "  The  Heart 
of  ^lid-Eothian."  He  is  remarkable 
for  his  religious  peculiarities,  for  his 
magnanimity  in  affliction,  and  his 
anuising  absurdities  in  prosperity. 

Deans,  Effie.  A  cliaracter  in  Scott's 
"  Heart  of  Mid-Lothian,"  whose  lover 
abandons  her  after  eflecting  her  ruin. 


SS"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanation^ 


DEA 


95 


DEL 


Deans,  Jean'ie.  The  heroine  of 
Scott's  "Heart  of  Mid  -  Lothian." 
The  circumstances  of  her  history  are 
based  upon  tacts  coninuinicated  to 
the  author  by  a  correspondent. 

iKij"  "■  She  is  a  pcrtect  model  of  sober 
heroism  ;  of  the  union  of  good  sense  with 
strong  affections,  tirui  principles,  and 
perfect  disinterestedness  ;  and  of  the 
calm  superiority  to  misfortune,  danger, 
and  difficulty,  which  such  a  union  must 
create.''  Senior. 

^V\■  follow  the  travelers  fin  the  "  Pilfrrini's 
Pr<>;,'resr;  "]  throutrh  their  allefroricul  pro-rress 
with  interest  not  inferior  to  that  with  which 
we  follow  Elizabeth  from  Siberia  to  Moscow, 
orJeanic  Deaiis  from  Edinburgh  to  London. 

Macaulay. 

Debatable  Land,  The.  A  tract  of 
land  on  the  western  border  of  Eng- 
land and  Scotland,  between  the  Esk 
and  Sark,  which  was  at  one  time 
claimed  by  both  kingdoms,  and  was 
afterward  divided  between  them.  It 
was  long  the  residence  of  thieves  and 
banditti,  to  whom  its  dubious  state 
attbrded  a  refuge. 

Decree  of  Fontainebleau  (fon'tan- 
blu').  {Fr.  Hist.)  An  edict  of  the 
Emperor  Napoleon  L,  dated  at  Fon- 
tainebleau, October  18, 1810,  ordering 
the  burning  of  all  English  goods. 

Dedlock,  Sir  LSices'ter  (les^ter). 
A  character  in  Dickens's  novel  of 
"  Bleak  House."  ''  He  is  an  honor- 
able, obstinate,  truthful,  high-spirit- 
ed, intensely  prej  udiced,  perfectly  un- 
reasonable man." 

Deerslayer.  The  hero  of  Cooper's 
novel  of  the  same  name. 

;S;'^"This  character  ...  is  the  au- 
thor's ideal  of  a  chivalresque  manhood, 
of  the  grace  which  is  the  natural  flower 
of  pnritv  and  virtue;  not  the  Stoic,  but 
the  Christian  of  the  woods,  the  man  of 
honorable  act  and  sentiment,  of  courage 
and  truth."  Diiyckinr/c. 

Defender  of  the  Faith.  [Lat.  Fiffei 
f)tfV}isi>r.]  A  title  confeiTcd,  in 
1521,  by  Pope  Leo  X.  upon  King 
Henry  VHL  of  England,  in  conse- 
quence of  a  Latin  treatise  "  On  the 
Seven  Sacraments "  Avhich  the  lat- 
ter had  published  in  confutation  of 
Luther,  and  had  dedicated  to  that 
pontiif.  The  title  was  not  made 
heritable  by  his  heirs,  and  Pope  Paul 
III.,  in  1535,  upon  the  king's  apostasy 


in  turning  suppressor  of  religiou* 
houses,  formally  revoked  and  with- 
drew it.  Henry,  however,  continued 
to  use  it  as  a  part  of  the  royal  style, 
and,  in  lo4;J,  j)arliament  annexed  it 
for  ever  to  the  crown  bv  stat.  '6b  Hen. 
VIII.  c.  3. 

J^=  It  has  been  shown  that  the  same 
title  w;us  popularly  applied  to,  or  was  as- 
sumed by,  some  of  the  kings  of  England 
who  preceded  Henry  VllJ.,  as  llichard 
11.  and  Henry  Vll. 

Deg'o-re',  Sir.  [A  corruption  of 
Uetjare,  or  Veyni-e,  meaning  a  per- 
son "  almost  lost."]  The  hero  of  a 
romance  of  high  antiquity,  and  tbr- 
merly  very  popular,  an  abstract  of 
whicn  may  be  seen  hi  Ellis's  "  Speci- 
mens of  tlie  Early  English  Poets." 

De-id'a-mi'5.  [Gr.  ATjiSaueta.]  (  Gr. 
4  Rom.  Myth.)  The  daughter  of 
Lycomedes,  king  of  Seyros.  and  the 
mother  of  Pyrrhus  by  Achilles. 

De-iph'o-bus.  [Gr.  Arji(i)o/3o<r.]  {Gr. 
(f-  Horn.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Priam  and 
llecuba.  After  the  death  of  Paris, 
he  married  Helen,  but  was  betrayed 
by  her  to  the  Greeks.  Next  to  Hec- 
tor, he  was  the  bravest  among  the 
Trojans. 

Dej'a-ni'ra(9).  [Gr.  ATjlaveipa.]  {Gr. 
cf  Rom.  Afyth.)  A  daughter  of 
(Eneus,  and  the  wife  of  Hercules, 
whose  death  she  involuntarily  caused 
by  sending  him  a  sliirt  which  had 
been  steeped  in  the  poisoned  blood  of 
Nessus,  who  falsely  told  her  that  his 
blood  would  enable  her  to  preserve 
her  husband's  love.  On  hearing  that 
Hercules  had  burnt  himself  to  death  to 
escape  the  torment  it  occasioned,  she 
killed  herself  in  remorse  and  despair. 

Delaunay,  Le  Vieomte  (hi  ve^ko^t' 
d'lo'nS',  02).  A  nom  rie  plume  of 
Mme.  Delphine  de  Girardin  (1804— 
]8.t5),  under  Avhich  she  ])ublished  her 
best-known  work,  the  "  Parisian  Let- 
ters "  {'•'•Ltttrts  Pnrisienncs'"), which 
originally  appeared  in  "La  Presse," 
a  newspaper  edited  by  her  husband, 
Emile  de  Girardin. 

Delectable  Mountains.  In  Bunyan's 
allegory  of  "  The  Pilgrim's  Progress," 
a  range  of  hills  from  whose  summit 
might  be  seen   the   Celestial    City. 


imd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


DEL 


96 


DEL 


"  TVhen  the  morning  was  tip,  they 
had  him  to  the  top  of  the  liouse,  and 
bid  him  h)oiv  soutli.  So  he  did,  and 
behold,  at  a  great  distance  he  .«aw  a 
most  pleasant  mountainous  countr}', 
beautilied  with  woods,  vineyards, 
fruits  of  all  sorts,  tiowers  also,  with 
springs  and  fountains,  very  delectable 
to  behold.  Jsi.  xxxiii.  IG,  17.  ... 
They  then  went  till  they  came  to  the 
Delectable  Mountains.  .  .  .Now  there 
were  on  the  tops  ot  these  mountains 
shepherds  feeding  their  flocks.  The 
pilgrims,  therefore,  went  to  tliem,  and, 
leaning  on  their  staff's  (as  is  connnon 
Avith  Aveary  pilgrims  when  they  stand 
to  talk  with  any  by  the  way\  they 
asked,  '  Whose  delectable  mountains 
are  these,  and  whose  be  the  sheep 
that  feed  upon  themV  "  The  shep- 
herds answered,  "  These  mountains 
are  Emmanuel's  land,  and  thoy  are 
within  sight  of  his  city,  and  the 
sheep  are  his,  and  he  laid  down  his 
life  for  them." 

On  the  Muses'  hill  he  is  happy  and  good  as 
one  of  the  shepherds  on  the  Delectable  iloun- 
tains.  C/mrles  Lamb. 

Delia.  A  poetical  name  given  by 
the  Roman  poet  Tilndlus  (d.  about 
B.  c.  18)  to  his  lady-love,  whose  real 
name  is  not  certainly  known,  but  is 
thought  to  have  been  Plania  (from 
planus).,  of  which  the  Greek  Dtlia 
(from  6^Aoc,  clear,  manifest,  plaiit)  is 
a  translation. 

De'li-a.     [Gr.  ArjAi'a.]      )  (  Gr.  (/•  Rom. 

DeTi-us.  [Gr.  Ar;Aios.]  \  Mijth.)  Sur- 
names respectively  of  Diana  and 
Apollo,  as  bom  in  Delos.  See 
Delos. 

Delight  of  Mankind.  A  name  given 
by  his  subji  rts  to  Titus,  emperor  of 
Kome  (40-81),  whose  liV>erality,  af- 
fability, mildness,  and  virtuous  con- 
duct were  the  subject  of  general  ad- 
miration. 

Delia  Criis'cans,  or  Delia  Crusca 
School  (del'la  krws'ku).  A  c<il- 
lective  appellation  applied  to  a  class 
of  sentimental  poetasters  of  both 
sexes,  which  arose  in  England  toward 
the  close  of  the  last  century,  and  who 
were  conspicuous  for  their  affectation 
and  bad  taste,  and  for  their  high- 
flown    paneg}'rics    on    one   another. 


Their  productions  consisted  of  odes, 
elegies,  epigrams,  songs,  sonnets, 
epistles,  plays,  tScc. 

j^-tr"  Souie  of  these  persons  had.  by 
chance,  beeu  jumliled  together  for  awhile 
at  Floreiue.  wliore  i\\f\  jmt  forth  a  vol- 
ume of  rhiiiie.-,  uiidtr  the  title  of  "  The 
Florence  Misceliaiiy."'  the  insipidity  and 
fantastic  silliness  of  which  transcend  all 
belief.  Afterward,  they  and  a  number 
of  other  persons,  tiieir  admirers  and  imi- 
tators, began  to  publish  their  effusions  in 
England,  chiefly  in  two  dailv  newspapers 
called  ••  The  World  "•  and  "  the  Oracle  ;  " 
from  which  tliey  were  soon  collected,  and, 
with  va>t  laudation,  recommended  to  the 
public  attention  in  a  volume  entitled 
"The  Album,"  by  Bell,  the  printer.  An 
end  was  at  length  put  to  the.-e  iniinities 
by  the  appearance,  in  1794,  of  Gifford's 
'•  Baviad,''  which,  in  1796,  was  followed 
by  its  continuation,  the  '•  Maviad."  — 
both  powerful  and  extremely  popular 
satires,  which  lashed  the  Delia  ('rusca  au- 
thors with  merciless  but  deserved  sever- 
itv.  One  of  the  founders  of  this  school 
of  poetry.  Mr.  Itobert  Merry,  wrote  nn<ler 
the  signature  of  D>lia  Criisrn.  and  this 
name  was  given  to  the  whole  brood  of 
rhymsters  to  which  he  belonged,  prob- 
ably because  he  became  the  most  noted 
of  them.  Merry  had  traveled  for  some 
years  on  the  Continent,  and  h:id  made  a 
long  residence  in  Florence,  where  he  wa.s 
elected  a  member  of  the  celebrated  Acad- 
emy Delia  Crusra,  — that  is.  Academy  of 
the  Sieve,  —  which  was  founded  for  the 
purpose  of  purifying  and  refining  the 
Italian  language  and  style.  In  adopting 
the  name  of  this  Academj'  as  a  nom  de 
■plume.  Merry  may  not  only  have  alluded 
to  the  fa<'t  of  his  membership,  but  very 
possibly  intended  to  intimate  that  what 
lie  should  write  would  be  quite  exquisite, 
and  flee  fioni  chaff.  It  would  appear  that 
Merry  was  not  the  first  of  these  writers 
whose  lucubrations  came  out  in  "  The 
Oracle'-  and  "The  World;"  i^r^  .'i<yp 
Gifford,  "  While  the  epidemic  malady  was 
spreailing  from  fool  tofuoi.  Delia  Crusca 
came  over  [from  Italy  .  and  immediately 
announced  himself  by  a  sonnet  to  Love. 
Anna  Matilda  wrote  an  im  oniparal  lo 
piece  of  nonsense  in  praise  of  it  :  and  the 
two  '  great  luminaries  of  the  age,"  as  Mr. 
Bell  calls  them,  fell  desperately  in  love 
with  each  other.  From  that  period,  i:ot 
a  day  yiassed  without  an  amatory  epistle, 
fraught  with  lightning  and  thunder,  et 
quicquid  linbent  telorvrn  nrmamtntaria 
call.  The  fever  turned  to  frenzy  :  Laura, 
Maria,  Carlos,  Orlando.  Adelaide,  and  a 
thousaad  other  nameless  names,  caught 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Ezplajiation^ 


DEL 


97 


DEM 


the  infection  ;  and  from  one  end  of  the 
kingdom   to   tlie  other,  all  was  nousuiisc 
and  Delia  Crusca.'"     Ottier  writers  of  this 
school,  besides  Merr\ ,  whose  names  have 
been  preserved,  are  Mr.  Bertie  Greathead, 
a  man  of  property  and  good  family  ;  Mr. 
William  Parsons,  another  gentleman  of 
fortune  ;  Mr.  Edward  Jerningham  {"  The 
Bard""),  author  of  numerous  plays  and 
poems ;  Miles  Peter  Andrews,  a  writer  of 
prologues   and    epilogues ;    Mr.    Edward 
Tophani,  the  proprietor  of''  The  World  ;  " 
the  Rev.  Charles  Este  ("  Morosoph  Este," 
as  Gilford  calls  him),  principal  editor  of 
that  paper;  Mr.  Joseph  Weston,  a  small 
magazine-critic  of  the  day  ;  James  Cobbe, 
a  now-forgotten    farce-writer  ;  Frederick 
Pilon,  said  to  have  been  a  player  by  pro- 
fession ;  a  Mr.  Timothy,  or  Thomas,  Ad- 
ney  (wuo  wrote  under  the  atiagram  of 
"Mit  Yenda.'"  or  "Mot  Yonda"');  Mr. 
Thomas  Vaughan  ("  Edwin  ") ;  Mr.  John 
Williams  (•'Tony  — or  Anthouy— Pas- 
quin"');  the  celebrated   James  Boswell, 
who  had  not  jet  eskiblished  his  reputa- 
tion as  the  prince  of  biogriphers ;  and 
the    dramatists   0"Keefe,    Morton,    Rey- 
nolds, Holcroft.  Slieridan,  and  the  Youn- 
ger Colman,  who  survived  and  recovered 
from  their  discreditable  connection  with 
the  Delia  Cruscan  folly.     Of  the  female 
writers  of  this  school,  the  principal  n:imes 
are  those  of  Mrs.   Piozzi,   the  widow  of 
Johnson's  friend  Thrale,  but  at  that  time 
the  wife  of  her  daughter's  music-mister  ; 
Mrs.  ii.   Cowley  ("  Anna  Matilda"),  the 
clever  authoress  of  the  "  Belle's  Strata- 
gem ;  ''  and  the  somewhat  notorious  Mrs. 
Kobinson,  who,  with  all  her  levity,  in- 
tellectual as  well  as  moral,  w  is  not  alto- 
gether without  literary  talent  and  poeti- 
cal feeling.     In  the  preface  to  the  "Mae- 
viad,"  Gilford  intimates  that  he  had  been 
charged  with  breaking  butterflies  upon 
a  wheel ;  but  "  many  a  man,"  he  add.s, 
"  who  now  affects  to  pity  me  for  wasting 
my  strength  upon  unresisting  imbecility, 
would,  not  long  since,  have  heard  these 
poems  with  applause,  and  their  praises 
with  delight."'     On  the  other  hand,  the 
great  patron.   Bell,  the  printer,  accused 
him  of  ••  bespattering  nearly  all   the  po- 
etical eminence  of  the  day."     "  But.  on 
the  whole."  says   Gifford,   •'  the  clamor 
against  me  was  not  loud,  and  was  lost  by 
insensible  degrees  in  the  applause  of  such 
as  I  was  truly  ambitious  to  please.  Thus 
supported,  the  good  effects  of  the  satire 
(gtorioxe  loquor]  were  not  long  in  mani- 
festing   themselves.       Delia   Crusca    ap- 
peared no  more  in  •  The  Oracle,'  and,  if 
any  of  his  followers  ventured  to  treat  the 
town   with  a  soft  sonnet,  it  was   not,  as 
before,  introduced  by  a  pompous  preface. 


Pope  and  Milton  resumed  their  superior- 
ity, and  lOste  and  tiis  coadjutors  silently 
ac(iuies<ed  in  the  growing  opinion  of  their 
iuconip(!tency,  and  showed  some  .sense  of 
shame." 

De'los.  [Gr.  AjjAo?.]  A  small  island 
ill  the  iEgean  Sea,  one  of  the  Cyclades. 
Here  Apollo  and  ihaua  \\ere  born, 
and  here  the  former  had  a  famous 
oracle.  Delos  was  at  tirst  a  floating 
island,  but  Neptune  tixed  it  to  the 
bottom  of  the  sea,  that  it  might  be  a 
secure  resting-place  for  Latona.  See 
Latona. 

Del 'phi.  [Gr.  AeA^oi'.]  A  famous 
oracle  of  Apollo  in  Thoeis,  at  the  foot 
of  Mount  Parnassus.  [I*2rroneousiy 
written  D  e  1  p  h  o  s  by  early  English 
writers.] 

Apollo  from  his  shrine 
Can  no  more  divine. 
With  hollow  shriek    the  steep  of  Delphos 
leaving. 
No  nightly  trance,  or  breathed  spell. 
Inspires  the   jiale-eyed   priest  from  the    pro- 
phetic cell.  Ililton. 

Delphine  (del'fen').  The  title  of  a 
novel  by  Mme.  de  Stael  (17GG-1817), 
and  the  name  of  its  heroine,  whose 
character  is  full  of  charm,  and  is  said 
to  hav^e  been  an  idealized  picture  of 
the  authoress  herself.  Delphine  has 
a  faithless  lover,  and  dies  broken- 
hearted. 

Del'ta.  The  signature  under  which 
David  Macbeth  Moir,  a  distinguished 
Scottish  writer  (1778-1851),  contrib- 
uted a  series  of  poems  to  ''  Black- 
wood's Magazine." 

Del'ville,  Mr.  One  of  the  guardians 
of  Cecilia,  in  Miss  Burney's  novel  of 
this  name;  a  gentleman  of  wealth, 
magnificent  and  ostentatious  in  his 
st3de  of  living,  and  distinguished  for 
an  air  of  haughty  affability  in  his  in- 
tercourse with  his  inferiors. 

Even  old  Delvillc  received  Cecilia,  though 
the  daughter  of  a  man  of  low  birth. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

De-me'ter.  [Gr.  Arm^TTyp.]  {Myth.) 
One  of  the  great  divinities  of  the 
Greeks,  corresponding  to  the  Certs 
of  the  Romans.     See  Ceres. 

De-moc'ri-tus,  Junior.  A  pseu- 
donviu  under  which  Robert  Burton 
(157«)-1640)  pid)lished  his  "Anatomy 
of  Melancholy,"  a  work  which  pre- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  RuIck  to  wliieh  the  numbers  alter  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-zxxii. 

7 


DEM 


98 


DEV 


sents,  in  quaint  language,  and  with 
many  shrewd  and  amusing  remarks, 
a  view  of  all  the  moditications  of 
that  disease,  and  the  manner  of  cur- 
ing it.  The  name  of  Democritus, 
Junior,  is  introduced  in  the  inscrip- 
tion on  his  monument  in  Christ- 
Church  Cathedral.  It  alludes  to 
Democritus  of  Abdera,  the  celebrated 
"  Laughing  Philosopher"  of  antiqui- 
ty-. See  Laughing  Philosophek. 
De-mod'o-cus.  [Gr.  At)/x66oko5.]  A 
famous  bard  mentioned  in  Homer's 
"Odyssey ''  as  delighting  the  guests  of 
King  Alcinous,  during  their  repast,  by 
singing  the  loves  of  Mars  and  Venus, 
and  tlie  stratagem  of  the  Wooden 
Horse,  by  means  of  which  the  Greeks 
gained  entrance  into  Troy. 

Tlien  sin^  of  secret  things  that  came  to  pass 
When  beldam  Nature  in  her  cradle  was; 
And  hist  of  kingjs,  and  queens,  and  heroes  old, 
Such  as  the  wise  Demodocus  once  told 
In  solemn  songs  at  King  Alcinous'  feast. 

Milton. 

De'mo-gor'gSn.  [Gr.,  from  Saiixuiv,  a 
god,  and  yopy6<;,  fearful.]  {Myth.) 
A  formidable  and  mysterious  deity, 
superior  to  all  others,  mentioned  by 
Lutatius,  or  Lactantius,  Placidus,  the 
scholiast  on  Statins,  and  made  known 
to  modern  readers  by  the  account  of 
Boccaccio,  in  his  "  Genealogia  Deo- 
rum."  According  to  Ariosto,  the 
fairies  were  all  subject  to  Demogor- 
gon,  who  inhabited  a  splendid  palatial 
temple  on  the  Himalaya  INIountains, 
where  every  iifth  year  he  summoned 
them  to  appear  before  him,  and  give 
account  of  their  deeds.  The  very 
mention  of  this  deity's  name  was  said 
to  be  tremendous :  wherefore  Lucan 
and  Statins  only  allude  to  it. 

Thou  wast  hegftt  in  liemwioryon'it  hall. 
And  saw'st  the  secrets  of  the  world  unmade. 

Spenser. 

The  dreaded  name 
Of  Demorjoryon.  Milton. 

Derrydown  Triangle.  A  sobriquet 
given  to  Lord  Castlereagh  (17G9- 
1822),  afterwards  Manjuess  of  Lon- 
diiyndt rry,  in  a  jiarody  on  the  Athana- 
sian  Creed  by  William  Hone;  the 
triangle  referring,  according  to  him, 
to  "a  thing  having  three  sides;  the 
meanest  and  most  tinkling  of  all  mu- 
sical instniincnis  ;  machinery  used  in 
militarv  torture.  Dictionary."  See 


the  "  Third  Trial  of  William  Hone 
before  I^ord  Kllenborough,"  3d  edi- 
tion, p.  'J,  London,  1818. 

De§'de-mo'na.  The  heroine  of  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of"  Othello,"  daugh- 
ter of  Brabantio,  a  Venetian  senator, 
and  wife  of  Othello,  a  Moorish  gen- 
eral, who  kills  her  in  a  groundless 
belief  of  her  intidelity.  See  Othkllo. 

She  was  never  tired  of  inquiring  if  sorrow 
had  his  young  days  faded;  and  was  ready  to 
listen  and  weep,  like  Des/lemona,a.t  the  stories 
of  his  dangers  and  campaigns.         Thackeray. 

Deu-ca'li-6n.  [Gr.  AeuKoAtoj;'.]  Gr. 
tj'-  Rum.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Prome- 
theus, king  of  Phthia,  in  Thessaly. 
With  his  wife  Pyrrha,  he  was  pre- 
served from  a  deluge  sent  upon  the 
earth  by  Jupiter;  and  he  became  the 
progenitor  of  a  new  race  of  men,  by 
throwing  stones  behind  him,  as  di- 
rected by  an  oracle.  From  stones 
thrown  by  Pyrrha  there  si)rang  up 
Avomen,  and  thus  the  world  was  re- 
peopled. 

Nor  important  less 
Seemed  their  petition  than  when  the  ancient 

pair 
In  fables  old,  —  less  ancient  yet  than  these, — 
Deucalion  and  chaste  Pyrrha,  to  restore 
The  race  of  mankind" drowned,  before  the 

shrine 
Of  Themis  stood  devout.  Milton. 

Devil,  The.  In  the  Bible,  and  in 
Jewish  and  Christian  theology,  the 
sovereign  spirit  of  evil,  who  is  ever 
in  active  opposition  to  God.  A  ma- 
jority of  the  early  Christians,  literal- 
ly interpreting  certain  passages  of 
Scripture,  regarded  him  as  an  apos- 
tate angel,  the  instigator  of  a  rebel- 
lion among  the  heavenly  host,  and 
their  ruler  in  a  kingdom  of  dark- 
ness opposed  to  Christ's  kingdom  of 
light.  To  his  agency  was  ascribed 
all  evil,  physical  as  well  as  moral; 
and  it  was  believed,  that,  for  his 
crimes,  he  was  doomed  to  suffer  end- 
less torment  in  a  material  hell.  Al- 
though his  power  was  supreme  over 
all  not  guarded  by  Christian  faith  and 
"ites,  over  those  who  were  thus  guard- 
ed, it  was  so  weak  that  they  could 
easily  rise  superior  to  his  influence. 
As  prince  of  the  demons,  and  as  the 
ideal  of  evil,  vice,  heresy,  subtlety, 
and  knavery,  he  has  figured  promi- 
nently in   literature,   especially  tliat 


09*  For  tbe  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Proaunciation,''  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


DEV 


99 


DIG 


of  the  Middle  A^es.  In  the  old  mys- 
teries and  miracle-plays,  he  was  otieii 
represented  on  tlie  staf;e  as  a  sort  of 
satyr  or  faun,  with  tiaminf^  saucer 
eyes,  sooty  comjjlexion,  hums,  tail, 
hooked  nails,  the  cloven  hoof  of  a 
goat  or  horse,  and  astron^^  sidphurous 
odor.  At  the  present  day,  the  doc- 
trine of  the  existence  of  a  personal 
Devil,  the  chief  of  evil  spirits,  and 
directly  or  indirectly  the  author  of 
at  least  all  moral  evil,  is  maintained 
by  most  Christians,  but  re;jected  by 
many.  See  Auadi>c»n,  Beelzebub, 
Satax,  (Sec. 

Devils'  Parliament.  [Lat.  Puidin- 
luenlviii  Di'ibulicum.]  {-^''.V-  Uii>t.) 
A  name  ^iven  to  the  Parliament  as- 
sembled by  Henry  VI.  at  Coventry, 
145!:!,  because  it  passed  attainders 
against  the  Duke  of  York  and  his 
chief  supporters. 

Devil's  "Wall.  A  name  given  by 
the  inhabitants  of  the  neighborhood 
to  the  old  Roman  wall  separating 
England  from  Scotland,  because  they 
supposed,  that,  from  the  strength  of 
the  cement  and  the  durability  of  the 
stone,  the  Devil  must  have  built  it. 
The  superstitious  peasantry  are  said 
to  be  in  the  habit  of  gathering  up 
the  tragments  of  this  wall  to  put  in 
the  foundation  of  their  own  tene- 
ments to  insure  an  equal  solidity. 

Devonshire  Poet.  A  sobriquet  or 
pseudonym  of  O.  Jones,  an  unedu- 
cated journeyman  wool-comber,  au- 
thor of  "  Poetic  Attempts,"  London, 
1786.  ^ 

Diable,  Le  (lu  de'^t'bl,  61).  [Fr.,  the 
Devil.]  A  surname  given  to  Robert 
I.,  Duke  of  Normandy.  See  Robert 
THE  Devil. 

Diabolical  Parliament.  See  Dev- 
ils' Pakliament. 

Diafoirus,  Thomas  (to'ma'  de'a'fwo''- 
riiss',  34,  102).  A  young  and  pe- 
dantic medical  student,  about  to  be 
dubbed  doctor,  who  tigures  in  Mo- 
liere's  "  Malade  Imaginaire  "  as  the 
lover  of  Angelique. 

The  uncloubting  faith  of  a  politicaV  Diafoirus. 

Macaulai). 

Diamond  State.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  the  State  of  Delaware,  from 


its  small  size  and  its  great  worth,  or 
supposed  importance. 
Dt-a'na,  m-  Di-an'a.  ( Or.  (f  Rum, 
Mi)tli.)  Origiiuilly,  an  Italian  divin- 
ity, afterward  regarded  as  identical 
with  the  Greek  Artemis,  tiie  daugh- 
ter of  .lupiter  and  Latona,  and  the 
twin  sister  of  Apollo.  She  was  the 
goddess  of  hunting,  chastity,  mar- 
riage, and  noctural  incantations.  She 
was  also  regarded  as  the  goddess  of 
the  moon.  See  Luna.  Her  temple 
at  Kphesus  was  one  of  the  Seven 
Wonders  of  the  World.  [Written 
also,  poetically,  Dian.] 

Hence  [fioni  chastity]  had  the  huntress  Dian 

her  drt-ad  bnw, 
Fair  silver-shafted  queen,  for  ever  chaste, 
Wherewith  she  tniiied  the  brinded  honess 
And  Bi)()tted  inountiiin  pard,  l)ut  set  at  noufjht 
The  frivolous  bow  of  Cui)id  ;  gods  and  men 
Feared  her  stern  frown,  and  she  was  queen  of 

the  woods.  Milton. 

Diavolo,  Fra.    See  Fka  Diavolo. 

Dicky  Sam.  A  cant  name  applied  to 
the  inhabitants  of  Liverpool. 

Diddler,  Jeremy.  A  character  in 
Kenny's  farce  of  "Raising  theWind," 
where  he  is  represented  as  a  needy 
and  seedy  individual,  always  contriv- 
ing, by  his  songs,  bon-mots,  or  other 
expedients,  to  borrow  money  or  ob- 
tain credit. 

Di'do.  [Gr.  AtSci.]  The  daughter  of 
Bel  us,  king  of  Tyre,  and  the  wife  of 
Sichieus,  whom  her  brother  Pygma- 
lion murdered  for  his  riches.  Escap- 
ing to  Africa,  she  purchased  as  much 
land  as  could  be  encompassed  with  a 
bullock's  hide,  which  —  after  the  bar- 
gain was  completed  —  she  craftily  cut 
into  small  shreds,  and  thus  secured  a 
large  piece  of  territor3^  Here,  not 
far  from  the  Phoenician  colony  of 
Utica,  she  built  the  city  of  Carthage. 
According  to  Virgil,  when  yEneas 
was  shipwrecked  upon  her  coast,  in 
his  voyage  to  Italy,  she  hospitably 
entertained  him,  fell  in  love  with  him, 
and,  because  he  did  not  requite  her 
passion,  stabbed  herself  in  despair. 
[Called  also  Klisa,  or  Elissa.] 

Dig'go-ry.  A  talkative,  awkward  ser- 
vant in  Goldsmith's  come(h%  "  She 
Stoops  to  Conquer,"  —  "taken  from 
the  barn  to  make  a  show  at  the  side- 
table." 


and  for  the  Rcmarkii  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii< 


DIM 


100 


DIX 


You  might  ns  well  make  Hamlet  (or  Dig- 
gory)  "  act  mud  "  in  a  strait  -  waistcoat,  us 
trariiinel  my  buffoonery,  if  1  am  to  l)c  n  l)ut'- 
foon.  Jl!fr(,ii. 

Dimanche,  M.  (mos'e-(")'  de'munsh', 
4:3,  62).  [Fr.,  Mr.  Sun<lay.]  A  sobri- 
quet popularly  ^nveii,  in  Fiance,  to  a 
creditor  or  dun,  in  allusion  to  an  hon- 
est merchant  of  this  name,  introduced 
by  Moliere  into  his  ••  \)im  .luan,"  (a. 
iv.,  so.  y).  lie  is  so  caUed,  doubtless, 
because  merchants  and  working-men, 
having  no  other  day  in  the  week  to 
themselves,  take  Sunday  for  present- 
ing their  bills  and  collecting  the 
money  which  is  due  to  them. 

Dinah,  Aunt.  Mr.  Walter  Shandy's 
aunt,  in  Sterne's  novel  of  "  Tristram 
Shandy."  She  bequeathed  to  him  a 
thousand  pounds,  which  he  had  as 
many  schemes  lor  expending. 

Din'mont,  Dan'die  (or  Andrew). 
A  humorous  and  eccentric  store- 
farmer  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel 
of  "  Guy  Mannering;  "  cue  of  the  best 
of  rustic  portraits. 

Di'o-med,    or    Di'o-mede.       [Lat. 

Diomedes,  Gr.  AioM.>j5r)?.]  ( (Jr.  cj"-  Eom. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Tydeus,  king  of 
^tolia.  He  was  one  of  the  most  re- 
nowned of  the  Grecian  chiefs  at  the 
siege  of  Troy,  where  he  performed 
many  heroic  deeds.  He  vanquisiied 
in  tight  Hector  and  ^Eneas,  the  most 
valiant  of  the  Trojans,  and,  along 
with  Ulysses,  carried  olf  the  Palla- 
dium, on  Avhich  the  safety  of  Troy 
depended.      [Called  also  Tydides.] 

Di-o'ne.  [Gr.  Aiyifrj.]  ( Gr.  (f  Rom.. 
Mifth.)  A  nymph  who  was,  accord- 
ing to  some  accounts,  the  mother  of 
Yenus. 

Di'o-ny'sus.  [Gr.  Aioi'ua-o?,  or  ^mw- 
ao?.]  {Gr.  Mtith.)  The  youthful, 
beautiful,  and  effeminate  god  of  Avine ; 
the  same  as  Bacchus.  See  Bac- 
chus. 

Di'os-cu'rt.  [Gr.  Aioa-Kovpoi,  sons  of 
Zeus,  or  Jupiter.]  ( Gr.  <f  Rom. 
3fyth.)  The  well-known  heroes  Cas- 
tor and  Pollux,  or  Poh'deuces.  See 
Castok. 

Di'rae  (9).     {Rom.  Myth.)    A  name  or 


title  of  the  Furies,  given  to  them  from 
their  dreadful  appearance. 
Dir'ce  (4).  [(Jr.  Aip/cij.]  Wife  of 
the  Theban  prince  Lycus.  For  cruel 
treatment  of  Antiope,  she  was  tied  to 
a  mad  bull,  and  dragged  about  till 
dead.     See  Antiope  and  Lycus. 

Dis.     [Lat.,  kindred  with  divus,  god.] 

{Rom.    Myth.)     A   name   sometimes 

given  to  Pluto,  and  hence  also  to  the 

infernal  world. 

Quick  is  the  movement  here!  And  then 
so  confused,  unsubstantial,  you  nii^lit  call  it 
nlniiist  spectral,  pallid,  dim,  inane,  like  the 
kinj^doms  of  Uis'  L'urlijle. 

Dis-cor'di-5.  {Rom.  Myth.)  A  ma- 
levolent deity  corresponding  with  the 
Greek  Eris,  the  goddess  of  conten- 
tion.    See  Pakis. 

Di'ves.  A  Latin  word  meaning  rich, 
or  a  rich  man.  It  is  a  common  or 
appellative  noun,  or,  more  strictly,  an 
adjective  used  substantively:  but  it  is 
often  erroneously  regarded  as  a  prop- 
er name,  when  allusion  is  made  to 
our  Lord's  parable  of  the  rich  man 
and  Lazarus.  (See  Luke  xvi.)  It 
has  been  suggested  that  the  mistake 
originally  arose  from  the  fact,  that, 
in  old  pictures  upon  this  subject, 
the  inscription,  or  title,  was  in  J^atin, 
"  JJires  tt  Lazarus,''  and  that  unedu- 
cated persons  probably  supposed  that 
the  first  word  was  the  name  of  the 
rich  man,  as  the  last  unquestionably 
was  that  of  the  beggar. 

Lazar  and  Dives  liveden  diversely. 

And  divers  guerdon  hadden  they  thereby. 

C/imicer. 

Nor  have  you,  O  poor  parasite,  and  humble 

hanger-on,  fnvich  reason  to  comi)lain  !    Your 

friendship  for  Dircf  is  about  as  sincere  as  the 

return  which  it  usually  gets.  Tliackeray. 

Divine  Doctor.  An  appellation  given 
to  Jean  Ruysbroek  (1294-1381),  a 
celebrated  mystic. 

Dix'Ie.  An  imaginar\^  place  some- 
Avhere  in  the  Southern  States  of 
America,  celebrated  in  a  popular  ne- 
gro melody  as  a  perfect  ])aradise  of 
luxurious  ease  and  enjoyment.  The 
term  is  often  used  as  a  collective  des- 
ignation of  the  Southern  States.  A 
correspondent  of  the  "  Xew  Orleans 
Delta"  has  given  the  following  ac- 
count of  the  original  and  early  appli- 
cation of  the  name :  — 


OS"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


DIZ 


101 


DOC 


JKZf  "I  do  not  wish  to  spoil  a  pretty 
illusion,  but  tlie  real  truta  is,  tliat  Dixie 
is  an  iiidigeiiuus  Nortlieru  ni'gro  reli'aiu, 
as  common  ti»  tiie  writer  as  the  lanij)-pusts 
in  New  York  city  seventy  ur  sevfiit_) -five 
years  ago.  It  was  one  of  tiie  every -day 
illusions  of  boys  at  that  time  in  all  their 
out-iloor  sports.  And  no  one  ever  heard 
of  Di.xie's  land  being  otlior  than  Manhat- 
tiiii  Island  until  recently,  when  it  has 
been  erroneously  supposed  to  reler  to  the 
South  from  its  connection  with  pathetic 
negro  allegory.  When  slavery  existed  in 
New  York,  one  '  Dixy  '  owned  a  large 
tract  of  land  on  Manhattan  Island,  and  a 
large  number  of  slaves.  The  increase  of 
the  slaves,  and  the  increase  of  the  aboli- 
tion sentiment,  caused  an  emigration  of 
the  slaves  to  more  thorough  and  secure 
slave  sections  ;  and  the  negroes  who  were 
thus  sent  off  (many  being  born  there) 
naturally  looked  back  to  their  old  homes, 
where  they  had  lived  in  clover,  with  feel- 
ings of  regret,  as  they  could  not  imagine 
any  place  like  Dix>  "s.  Hence,  it  became 
synonymous  with  an  ideal  locality,  com- 
bining ease,  comfort,  and  material  hap- 
piness of  every  description.  In  those 
days,  negro  singing  and  minstrelsy  were 
in  their  infancy,  and  any  subject  that 
could  be  wrought  into  a  ballad  was  eagerly 
picked  up.  This  was  the  case  with 
•  Dixie.'  It  origin.-ited  in  New  York,  and 
assumed  the  proportions  of  a  song  there. 
In  its  travels,  it  has  been  enlarged,  and 
has  '  gathered  moss.'  It  has  picked  up  a 
'  note  '  here  and  there.  A  '  chorus  '  has 
been  added  to  it ;  and,  from  an  indistinct 
'  ch;int '  of  two  or  three  notes,  it  has 
become  an  elaborate  melody.  But  tlie 
fact  that  it  is  not  a  Southern  song  '  can- 
not be  rubbed  out.'  The  ftxllacy  is  so 
popular  to  the  contrary,  that  I  have  thus 
been  at  pains  to  state  the  real  origin  of 
it." 

Piz'zy.  A  nickname  given  to  Ben- 
jamin Disraeli  (b.  1805),  an  eminent 
living  English,  statesman. 

Djinnestan  ( jin'nes-tan').  The  name 
of  the  ideal  region  in  Avhich  JJinns, 
or  genii,  of  Oriental  superstition  re- 
side.    [Written  also  Jinnesta  n.] 

Doctor,  The.  A  nickname  often  given 
to  the  lirst  Lord  Viscount  Sidmoutli 
(1757-1844:),  on  account  of  his  being 
the  son  of  Doctor  Anthony  Addington 
of  Reading. 

Doctor,  The  Admirable.  See  Ad- 
MiHABLE  Doctor;  and  forAxGELic 
Doctor,  Authentic  Doctor,  Di- 


vine Doctor,  Di.'lcifluou.s  Doc- 
tor, Ecstatic  Doctor,  Eloquent 
Doctor,  Evangelical  or  Gospel 
D(»cToi;,  lLLUMi>Ari;D  pocrou,  In- 
viNciKLE  Doctor,'  Ij^LEi^KAGAULE 
Doctor,  MELLa'LL^)i^s  ">  Doctor, 
Mo.sT  CiiR..sTiA.>'  Doctor,  Mc).st 
Methodical  Doctor,  ]\.'.o>;t  J;>u>,sv- 
LUTE  Doctor,  pLAiy  anj^^PeiJi'spic-' 
uous  DijCToR,  Profound  Doctor, 
Scholastic  Doctor,  Seraphic 
Doctor,  Singular  Doctor,  Sol- 
emn Doctor,  Solid  Doctor,  Sub- 
tle Doctor,  Thorough  Doctor, 
Universal  Doctor,  Venerable 
Doctor-,  Well-founded  Doctor, 
and  Wonderful  Doctor,  see  the 
respective  adjectives. 

Doctor  Dove.  The  hero  of  Southey's 
"  Doctor." 

Doctor  Dulcamara  (do('>l-ka-m3/ra). 
An  itinerant  physician  in  Donizetti's 
opera,  "  L'Elisir  d'Amore  "  ("The 
Elixir  of  Love  " ) ;  noted  for  his  char- 
latanry, boastfulness,  and  pomposity. 

Doctor  My-book.  A  sobriquet  very 
generally  bestowed  upon  Jolui  Abei'- 
nethy  (17G5-1830),  the  eminent  Eng- 
lish surgeon.  "  I  am  christened  Doc- 
tor Mij-booh,  and  sanrized  under  that 
name  all  over  England."  The  cele- 
brated "My-book,"  to  which  he  was 
so  fond  of  referring  his  patients,  was 
his  "Surgical  Observations." 

Doctor  of  the  Incarnation.     A  title 

given  to  St.  Cyril  of  Alexandria  (d. 
444),  on  accoimt  of  his  long  and 
tumultuous  dispute  with  Nestorius, 
bishop  of  Constantinople,  who  denied 
the  mystery  of  the  hypostatic  union, 
and  contended  that  the  Deity  could 
not  have  been  born  of  a  woman ;  that 
the  divine  nature  was  not  incarnate 
in,  but  only  attendant  on,  Jesus  as  a 
man;  and  therefore  that  INIary  was 
not  entitled  to  the  appellation  then 
commonly  used  of  Mother  of  God. 
Doctor  Slop.  1.  The  name  of  a 
choleric  and  nncharitable  physician 
in  Sterne's  novel,  "  The  Life  and 
Opinions  of  Tristram  Shandy,  Gent." 
He  breaks  down  Tristram's  nose,  and 
crushes  Uncle  Toby's  fingers  to  a 
jelly,  in  attempting  to  demonstrate 
the  use  and  virtues   of  a  newlv  in- 


•ad  for  the  Remaiks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xixiL 


DOC 


102 


DOE 


vented  pair  of  obstetrical  forceps. 
Under  tliis  name  Sterne  ridiculed 
one  Doctor  IJurton,  a  nian-niidwil'e 
at  Vork,  aJ^^ia^;t  v/lioni  lie  had  .sonic 
piqAe.-       /    r 

4^^  "  The  annals  of  satire  can  furnish 
nothiiiij;  inoTv  "ut.iiiij;  am',  ludicrous  than 
•this'oonfcUuiuittte.'portraif,  so  farcical,  and 
•yet  so  ai>p»r;atly  Irto  from  satire." 

Elii^'n. 

2.  The  name  was  applied  to  Doc- 
tor (afterwards  Sir  John)  Stoddart 
(1773  -  I806;  on  account  of  his  vio- 
lent prejudices,  and  the  rancorous 
deiiuiiciations  witli  wliich  he  as- 
sailed the  tir.«t  Njipoleon  and  his 
policy  in  the  Lomlon  •'  Times  " 
newspaper,  of  which  he  was  edi- 
tor from  1812  to  lbl6.  Under  this 
name  he  was  caricatured  by  Cruik- 
shaiik  in  the  parodies  and  satires  of 
Hone. 
Doctor  Squintum.  A  name  under 
which  the  celebrated  Geor;.^e  "Whire- 
lield  (1714-1770)  was  ridiculed  in 
Foote's  farce  of  "  Tlie  ISIinor."  It 
■Was  afterwards  applied  hv  Theodore 
Hook  to  the  Rev.  Kd^vard  Irvinjij 
(17D2-18.34),  who  had  a  strong  cast 
in  his  eyes. 

Doctor  Syntax.  The  hero  of  a  w^ork 
by  William  Combe  (1741-182;3),  en- 
titled ''  The  Tour  of  Dr.  Syntax  in 
Search,  of  the  Picturesque,"  formerly 
very  popular. 

Do-do'na.  [Gr.  AtoScii'T?.]  A  verj'  fa- 
mous oracle  of  Jupiter  in  Epirus,  sit- 
uated in  an  oak  grove ;  said  to  have 
been  founded  in  obedience  to  the 
command  of  a  black  dove  Avith  a  hu- 
man voice,  which  came  from  the  city 
of  Thebes  in  Egypt. 

And  I  will  work  in  prose  and  rhyme. 

And  praise  thee  more  in  both 
Than  bard  has  )ionored  beech  or  Ume, 

Or  that  Thessalian  growth 
In  whieh  the  swarthy  ringdove  sat 

And  mystic  sentence  spoke.  Tennyson. 

Dods,  Meg.  1.  An  old  landlady  in 
Scott's  novel  of  "  St.  Ronan's  Well ; " 
one  of  his  best  low  comic  characters. 

JSjT'  "  Mej?  Dods,  one  of  those  happy 
creations,  approaching  extravagance  but 
not  reaching  it.  formed  of  the  most  dis- 
similar materials  without  inconsistency, 
.  .  .  excites  in  the  reader  not  the  mere 
pleasure  of  admiring  a  skillful  copy,  but 


the  interest  and  curiosity  of  an  original, 
and  recur.s  to  his  recollection  among  the 
real  beings  whose  acquaintance  has  en- 
larged his  knowledge  of  human  nature."' 

t'eti  ior. 

2.  An  alias,  or  pseudonym,  under 
which  ^Irs.  J(jhnstone,  a  Sc(jtti.>-h 
authoress,  published  a  well-known 
work  on  cookery. 

Dod'son  and  Fogg  (-sn).  Pettifog- 
ging lawyers  in  partnership,  who  fig- 
ure in  the  famous  case  of  "  Pardell  vs. 
Pickwick,"  in  Dickens's  '•  Pickwick 
Papers." 

Doe,  John.  A  merely  nominal  plain- 
tiff in  actions  of  ejectment  at  com- 
mon law;  usually  associated  with 
the  name  o{  R'u hard  Rot. 

J^='  '1  he  action  of  ejectment  is  a  species 
of  mixed  action,  which  lies  for  the  re- 
covery of  possession  of  real  estate,  and 
damages  find  costs  lor  the  detention  of 
it.  It  was  invented  either  in  the  reigti 
of  Edward  II..  or  in  the  beginning  of 
the  reign  of  Edward  III.,  in  order  to 
enable  suitors  to  escape  ft-on;  "  the 
thousand  niceties  with  which.  '  in  the 
language  of  Lord  Mansfield,  "real  ac- 
tions [that  is.  actions  for  the  recovery  of 
real  estate]  were  embarrassed  and  en- 
tangled."' In  order  to  foster  this  form 
of  action,  the  court  early  determined 
(circiter  a.  d.  1445-1499)  that  the  plain- 
tiff wa.s  entitU'd  to  recover  not  nerely  the 
damages  claimed  bj-  the  action,  but  also, 
by  way  of  collateral  and  additional  relief, 
the  land  it«elf.  This  form  of  action  is 
based  entirely  upon  a  legal  fiction,  in- 
troduced in  order  to  make  the  trial  of  the 
lessor"s  title,  which  would  otherwise  be 
only  incidentally  broug''  t  up  for  examina- 
tion, the  direct  and  main  object  of  the 
action.  A  sham  plaintiff — John  Doe  — 
pretends  to  be  the  lessee  of  the  real  claim- 
ant, and  alleges  that  he  has  been  ousted 
bj' a  sham  defendant.  —  Hichard  Hoe. — 
who  is  called  the  "'casual  ejector."'  No- 
tice of  this  action  is  then  given  to  the 
actual  tenant  of  the  lands,  together  with 
a  letter  from  the  imaginary  Richard  Roe 
stating  that  he  shall  make  no  appeartmce 
to  the  action,  and  warning  the  tenant  to 
defend  his  own  interest,  or.  if  he  be  only 
the  tenant  of  the  real  defendant,  to  give 
the  latter  due  notice  of  the  proceeding. 
If  no  appearance  is  made,  judgment  is 
given  in  favor  of  the  plaintiff,  wlio  there- 
upon becomes  entitled  to  turn  out  the 
party  in  possession.  But  if  the  lattev 
makes  appearance,  the  first  step  in  the 
action  is  a  formal  acknowledgment  by 
him  of  his  possession  of  the  lands,  of  the 


©5"  For  the  "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  tke  accompanying  Explanations, 


DOE 


103 


DON 


lease  in  favor  of  Doe,  of  Doe's  entry,  and 
of  the  ouster  by  the  tenant  himself.  This 
elaborate  tissue  of  fictions  liavin^  been 
introiluced  to  comply  svith  the  technieal 
rules  of  les^al  title,  when  the  real  question 
at  issue  presents  itself,  John  Doe  and 
Kichard  lioe  disappear,  the  names  of  the 
real  parties  are  substituted,  and  the  ac- 
tion proceeds  in  the  ordinary  way  at  once 
to  trial.  The  action  of  ejectment  is  still 
retained,  with  all  its  curious  fictions,  in 
several  of  the  United  States  ;  in  New  York, 
Pennsylvania,  and  other  States,  the  fic- 
titious part  of  the  action  has  been  abol- 
islicd.  It  has  also  been  abolished,  in 
England,  bv  tlie  Common  Law  Procedure 
Act  of  1852(15  and  16  Victoria,  c.  76). 

Warre  n .  C/ia»ibers . 
Ijj-^u  Those  mythical  parties  to  so  many 
lejral  proceedings,  John  Doe  and  Richar  I 
lloe,  are  evidently  of  fore-^t  extraction, 
and  itoiiit  to  the  days  when  forest  laws 
prevailed,  and  venison  was  a  sacred 
thing."  Lower. 

It  was  then  I  first  became  acquainted  with 
the  quarter  which  my  little  work  will,  I  hope, 
render  immortal,  and  grew  fuiniliir  with  these 
ningnificent  wilds  through  which  the  kings  of 
Scf)tlund  once  chased  the  (l:irk-l)ii)Wii  deer, 
but  which  were  chiefly  n-cdiiiun'uded  to  me, 
in  those  days,  by  their  being  iniiocessihle  to 
tlmsc  mi'tiplivsicul  persons  whom  the  law  of 
tiie  ufiu^hliciring  country  terms  John  Doe  and 
Jiic/ian/  lioe.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

While  the  patriotic  author  is  weeping  and 
howling,  in  prose,  in  blank  verso,  and  in 
rhyme,  nnd  collecting  the  drops  of  public  sor- 
row into  his  volume,  as  into  -x  lachrymal  vase, 
it  is  more  than  jirobabk'  liis  fellow-citizens  are 
eating  and  drinking,  fiddling  and  dancing,  as 
utterly  ignorant  of  the  bitter  lamentations 
made  in  their  name  as  are  those  men  of  straw, 
John  Doe  and  Richard  Koe^  of  the  plaintiffs 
for  wlioin  they  are  generously  pleased  to  be- 
come sureties.  W.  Irrinff. 

Do'eg.  [From  Doer/,  chief  of  Saul's 
herdsmen,  "  havin^^  charge  of  the 
mules,"  1  Sam.  xxi.  7.]  A  nick- 
name under  Avhich  Drvden,  in  the 
second  part  of  his  "  Absalom  and 
Achitopliel,"  satirized  Elkanah  Set- 
tle (164^8-1743),  a  contemptible  poet- 
aster, -svho  Avas  for  a  time  Dry  den's 
successfid  rival. 

J)oer/,  though  without  knowing  how  or  why, 
>I.ide  still  a  blnnderirg  kind  of  melody. 
Spurred  boldly  on,  and  dashed  through  thick 

and  thin. 
Through  sense  and  nonsense,  never  out  nor 

in  ; 
Free  f  om  all  meaning,  whether  good  or  bad. 
And,  in  one  word,  heroically  mad.      Dryclen. 

Doe'sticks,  Q,.  K.  Phi-lan'der.  A 
pseudonym  adopted  1)y  ISIortimor 
Thom|)son,  an  American  comic  writ- 
er of  the  present  day. 


Doff'ber-ry.  An  ingeniously  al)surd, 
sell-satislied,  and  lo(|uacious  night- 
constable,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Much 
Ado  about  Nothing." 

It  is  an  important  examination,  and  there- 
fore, like  JJo(jhcrri/,  we  must  spare  no  wisdom. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Dom'bey,  Florence.  The  heroine 
of  Dickens's  novel  of  "  Dombey  and 
Son;  "  a  motherless  child,  of  angelic 
purity  and  loveliness  of  cliaracter. 

Dom'bey,  Mr.  A  prominent  charac- 
ter in  Dickens's  novel  of  "Dombey 
and  Son ;  "  a  proud,  self-sulHcieut,  and 
wealthy  merchant,  who  is  disciplined 
and  made  better  by  a  succession  of 
disasters. 

Dom-dan'i-el.  A  cave  in  the  region 
adjoining  Babylon,  the  abode  of  evil 
spirits,  by  some  traditions  said  to 
have  been  originally  the  spot  where 
the  prophet  Daniel  imparted  instruc- 
tion to  his  disciples.  In  another  form, 
the  Domdaniel  was  a  purely  imagi- 
nary region,  subterranean,  or  subma- 
rine, the  dwelling-place  of  genii  and 
enchanters. 

In  the  Domdaniel  caverns. 
Under  the  roots  of  the  ocean. 
Met  the  Masters  of  the  Spell. 

SontfieJ/. 

We  find  it  written,  "  Woe  to  them  that  are 
at  ease  in  Zion ; "  but  surely  it  is  a  double  woe 
to  them  that  are  at  ease  in  Babel,  in  Dom- 
daniel. Carlyle. 

Dominic,  Friar.  See  Friar  Dom- 
inic. 

Dorainie  Samp'son  (-sn),  A  school- 
master in  Sir  W.  Scott's  novel  of 
"Guy  jNIannering  ;  "  "a  poor,  mod- 
est, humble  scholar,"  says  the  author, 
"  who  had  won  his  way  through  the 
classics,  but  fallen  to  the  leeward  in 
the  voyage  of  life,  —  no  uncommon 
personage  in  a  country  where  a  cer- 
tain portion  of  learning  is  easily  at- 
tained by  those  who  are  willing  to 
sulfer  hunger  and  thirst  in  exchange 
for  acquiring  Greek  and  Latin."  His 
usual  ejaculation  when  astonished 
was,  "  Pro-di-gi-ous  !  "  [Called  also 
Abel  S  impso7i.i 

Poor  Jung  [Stilling],  a  sort  of  German 
Doriinie  Sampson,  awkward,  honest,  irascible, 
in  old-fashioned  clothes  and  bag-wig. 

Carlyle, 

Don   A'dri-a'no   de  Ar-ma'do.     A 


«nd  for  th.0  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


DON 


104 


DON 


pomiious,    fantastical     Spaniard,    in 

81iaktsi)eare's  ''  l>ove\s  l^aUtr  's 
Lost  ;  "  represented  as  a  lover  and 
a  retainer  of  the  court,  and  said  to 
have  been  desij;ned  as  a  portrait  of 
John  Florio,  siimanied  "  The  Reso- 
lute."    See  Rksoi.i  TK,  Tiik. 

ie®=»  "  Aniiado,  the  uiilitiiry  braggart 
in  the  statu  of  peace,  ;is  farolles  is  iu  war, 
appears  iu  the  ridiculous  exnggeration 
and  atTectation  of  a  child  of  hot  Span- 
ish fancy,  assuming  a  contempt  toward 
every  thing  connnou,  Vioastful  but  poor, 
a  coiner  of  words,  but  most  ignorant, 
solemnly  grave  and  laughably  awkward, 
a  hector  and  a  coward,  of  giit  majestical 
and  of  the  lowest  propensities." 

Gercinus,  Trans. 

Don  Belianis  of  Greece  (bii'le-a'- 
ness).  Tiie  hero  of  an  old  romance 
of  chivalry  founded  upon  the  model 
of  the  "  Aniadis,"  but  with  much  infe- 
rior art,  and  on  a  coarser  plan.  An 
English  abridgment  of  this  romance 
was  published  in  1073.  It  is  often 
''eferred  to  in  "  Don  Quixote." 

He  called  you  "  le  grand  serieux,"  Don  Be- 
/vf«/s  or' Greece,  and  I  don't  know  what  names, 
riiniicking  your  manner.  Thackeray. 

I>on  Cher'u-bim.  The  "  Bachelor 
of  Salamanca,"  in  Le  Sage's  novel 
of  this  name ;  a  man  placed  in  dif- 
ferent situations  of  life,  and  made  to 
associate  with  all  classes  of  society, 
in  order  to  give  the  author  the  great- 
est possible  scope  for  satire. 

Don  Cle'o-fas.  The  hero  of  Le 
Sage's  novel,  "  Le  Diable  Boiteux  " 
(commonly  called  in  English  *'  The 
Devil  on  Two  Sticks");  a  fiery 
young  Spaniard,  proud,  high-spirited, 
and  revengeful,  but  interesting  from 
his  gallantry  and  generous  senti- 
ments. See  AsMODEUs.  [Written 
also  C 1  e  0  p  h  a  s.] 

Farewell,  old  G'-anta's  spires; 
No  more,  like  C/eo/os,  I  fly.  Huron. 

Come  away  thousib.  now,  Don  Cleophn<i : 
■we  must  go  further  alield.  Sala. 

Don  Ju'an  {Sp.  pvon.  don  hoo-an'). 
A  mythical  personage  Avho  figures 
largely  in  drama,  melodrama,  and 
romance,  as  the  type  of.  refined  lib- 
ertinism. 

:^fS"  There  are  two  legends  connected 
with  the  name,  bol^h  of  Spmis'i  origi  i, 
but  in  course  of  time  tliese  have  become  so 


blended  together  that  they  cannot  easily 
be  separated.  Dou  .lu.in  'I'euorio  of  .Se- 
ville, whose  life  has  Iteen  placed  iu  the 
fourteentl\  century,  is  the  supposed  orig- 
inal of  tlie  story.  The  traditions  concern- 
ing him  were  long  current  in  Seville,  in  an 
oral  form, and  were  afterward  dram.-itized 
by  Gabriel  Tellez(Tirs()  de  Moiiiia).  lie 
is  said  to  have  attempted  tue  seduction  of 
the  daughter  of  the  governor  of  Seville,  or 
of  a  nobleman  of  tlie  family  of  the  Ulloas. 
Her  fatlier  detects  the  design,  and  is 
killed  iu  a  duel  which  ensues.  A  statue 
of  the  murdered  man  liaviug  been  erected 
in  the  tainily  tomb,  Don  .Juan  forces  his 
way  into  tlie  vault,  aud  iuvites  tiie  statue 
to  a  feast  which  he  has  cau.sed  to  be  pre- 
pared. The  stony  guest  makes  his  ap- 
pearance at  table,  as  invited,  to  the  great 
amazement  of  Don  Juan,  whom  he  com- 
pels to  follow  him.  aud  delivers  over  to 
hell.  The  legend,  iu  its  earliest  known 
form,  involved  the  same  supernatur il 
features,  the  ghostly  apparition,  the  final 
reprobation  and  consignment  to  hell, 
which  have,  in  general,  characterized  the 
modern  treatment  of  the  subject.  Fmni 
the  Spanish  the  story  was  translated  by 
the  Italian  playwiights  :  thence  it  passeil 
into  France,  where  it  was  adopted  and 
brought  upon  the  stage  by  Moiiere  and 
Corneille.  In  Italy.  Goldoni  made  it  the 
basis  of  a  plav.  Tlie  first  instance  of  a 
musical  treatment  of  the  subject  was  by 
Gluck,  in  his  ballet  of  "  Don  Juan.''  about 
the  year  1765.  Afterward  Mozart  im- 
mortalizerl  the  tradition  in  his  great  ope- 
ra, "  Don  Giovanni, ■■  which  first  appeared 
at  Prague  in  1787.  The  name  has  been 
rendered  most  fuiiiliar  to  Kiiglish  readers 
bv  the  u.se  wliich  I'yron  has  made  of  it 
in  his  poem  entitleil  '•  Don  Juan."  T.ut 
the  distinsruishing  features  of  the  old 
legend,  those  which  sefiarate  Don  Juan 
from  the  muUitmle  of  vulgar  libertines, 
Bvron  has  omitted,  and  be  can  hardly  be 
said  to  have  done  more  than  borrow  the 
name  of  the  hero. 

/!?§=■  "  As  Goethe  has  expressed  the 
eternal  significance  of  the  German  legend 
of  Faust,  so  Ins  Mozirt  best  interpreted 
the  deep  mysterv  of  the  Spanish  legend ; 
the  one  by  language,  the  other  by  music. 
Language  is  the  interpreter  of  thought, 
music  of  feeling.  Tlie  F(tu'<'-sa^<  belong.^ 
to  the  former  domain  ;  the  legends  of 
Don  Juan  to  the  latter.'" 

Sc/ieible,  Trans. 

"We  could,  like  Don  Jimn.  ask  them  rOanto's 
phnsts,-nd  tlcr.ions]  tosupper,  and  e  t  r.o"-'!ly 
in  their  company.  Macanlay. 

Don't  broik  her  heart,  .Tos,  yon  riscal.  said 
another.  Don't  trifle  with  her  affec  i<in;.  ^•ou 
Don  Juan!  Thackeray. 


E3~  For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation, "  with  the  accompanying  Explanations 


DON 


105 


DOR 


Don  Pedro.  A  Prince  of  Arragoii 
wiio  liiiuies  in  Shakesijcare's  "Much 
Ado  about  Notliinj;-." 

TIk'  author  ot'"Iliijji  U;il)a"  rotunu'd  an 
answer  (if  a  kiiiil  niust"  likely  t"  lui\e  weight 
with  a  Persian,  anil  wliieli  we  can  all  dliserve 
is,  like  Don  I'alro's  answer  ti>  Dogherrv, 
"rightly  reasoned;  and  iu  liis  own  division.'' 
Sir  ir.  Srutt. 

Don  Quix'ote.  [Sp.  Don  QuiJuU^,  or 
Bon  Qiiiu-'ute,  don  ke-ho^taj.  The 
hero  of  a  celebrated  ISpanish  romance 
of  the  same  name,  by  Cervantes. 
Don  Quixote  i.s  represented  as  "  a 
gaunt  country  gentleman  of  La  jMan- 
cha,  full  of  genuine  Castilian  honor 
and  enthusiasm,  gentle  and  dignilicd 
in  his  character,  trusted  by  his 
Iriends,  and  loved  by  his  depend- 
ents," but  "  so  completely  crazed  by 
long  reading  the  most  famous  books 
of  chivalry,  that  he  believes  them  to 
be  true,  and  feels  himself  called  oil 
to  become  the  impossible  knight-er- 
rant they  describe,  and  actually  goes 
forth  into  the  world  to  defend  the  op- 
pressed and  avenge  the  injured,  like 
the  heroes  of  his  romances.  " 

jK^  "  Toooniplete  his  chivalrous  equip- 
ment,—  whirh  he  had  begun  by  fitting 
Tip  for  himself  a  suit  of  armor  strange  to 
his  centur_y,  — he  took  an  esquire  out  of 
his  neighborhood  ;  a  middle-aged  peasant, 
ignorant  and  credulous  to  excess,  but  of 
great  good-nature  ;  a  glutton  and  a  liar  ; 
selfish  and  gross,  yet  attached  to  his  mas- 
ter ;  shrewd  enough  occasionally  to  see 
the  folly  of  their  position,  but  always 
amusing,  and  sometimes  mischierous.  in 
his  interpretations  of  it.  These  two  sally 
fortii  from  tiieir  native  village  in  search 
of  adventures,  of  which  the  excited  imag- 
ination of  the  knight,  turning  windmills 
into  giants,  solit  iry  inns  into  castles,  and 
gall(\v -slaves  into  opjiressed  gentlemen, 
finds  abundance  wherever  he  goes  ;  while 
the  esqnii-e  translates  them  all  into  the 
plain  ]n-ose  of  truth  with  an  admirable 
.simplicity,  quite  unconscious  of  its  own 
humor,  and  render('(l  tiie  more  striking 
by  its  contrast  with  the  lofty  and  courte- 
ous dignity  and  magnificent  illusions  of 
the  superior  persouatre.  There  could,  of 
course,  be  but  one  consistent  termination 
of  adventures  like  these.  The  kniglitand 
his  esquire  suffer  a  series  of  ridiculous  dis- 
comfitures, and  are  at  last  brought  liome, 
like  madmen,  to  their  native  village, 
■where  Cervantes  leaves  them,  with  an  in- 
timation that  the  story  of  their  adven- 
tures is  by  no  means  ended.  In  a  con- 
tinuation, or  Second  Part,  published  in 


1615,  the  Don  is  exhibited  in  another 
series  of  adventures,  equally  amusing 
with  those  in  tin;  First  I'art,  and  is 
finally  restored,  '  through  a  severe  illness, 
to  his  riglit  mind,  made  to  renounce  all 
the  lollies  of  knight-errantry,  and  die, 
like  a  peaceful  Christian,  iu  his  own 
be<i.'  "  Ticknor. 

4Q==  "  Some  say  his  surname  was 
Quixada,  or  Qui.sada  (lor  authors  differ 
in  this  particular).  However,  we  may 
reasonably  conjecture  he  was  called  Quix- 
ada, that  is.  Lantern-jaws.  .  .  .  Having 
seriously  pondered  the  matter  eight  whole 
days,  he  at  length  determined  to  call 
himself  Don  Quixote.  Whence  the  au- 
thor of  this  most  authentic  history  draws 
the  inference  that  his  right  name  was 
Quixada,  and  not  Quisada,  as  others  ob- 
stinately pretend."  Quixote  means  liter- 
ally a  cuish,  or  piece  of  armor  for  the 
thigh.  Cervantes  calls  his  hero  by  the 
name  of  this  piece  of  armor,  becau.se  the 
termination  otc.  with  which  it  ends,  gen- 
erally gives  a  ridiculous  meaning  to  words 
in  the  Spanish  language. 

Be  this  law  and  this  reasoning  risrht  or 
wrong,  onr  interfering  to  arrange  it  wofdcl  no) 
be  a  whit  more  wise  or  rational  than  Don 
Qviaote's  campaign  against  the  windmills. 

Noctes  Ambrosiance. 

Don'zel  del  Phe'bo.  [It.^donzello,  a 
squire,  a  young  man.]  A  celebrated 
hero  of  romance,  in  the  "Mirror  of 
Knighthood,  "  &c.  He  is  usually 
associated  with  Rosiclear. 

Defend  thee  powerfully,  marr\'  thee  sump- 
tuously, and  keep  thee  in  spite  of  Rosiclear  or 
Donzt'l  del  Fhebo.  Malcoiittnt,  Old  I'la//. 

Doo'lin  of  MS,y-ence'  ( Fr.  pi-on. 
du4ri»')-  The  hero  of  an  old  French 
romance  of  chivalry  which  relates 
his  exploits  and  wonderful  adveiu 
tures.  He  is  chietly  renuirkahlc  as  the 
ancestor  of  a  long  race  of  paladm^, 
particularly  Ogier  le  Daiiois. 

Dora.  The  "child-wife"  of  David 
Cojjperlield,  in  Dickens's  novel  of 
that  name. 

Doraliee  {Tt.pron.  ^o-xk-le'cht).  A 
female  character  in  Ariosto's  "  Or^ 
lando  Fm-ioso."  She  is  loved  by 
Rodomont,  but  marries  IMandricardo. 

Dorante  (do^ronf,  02.)  1.  A  count  in 
INIoliere's  comedy,  "  Le  Bourgeois 
Gentilhomme." 

2.  A  courtier  devoted  to  the  chase, 
who  figures  in  Moliere's  comedy, 
"  Les  Lacheux." 


and  for  tlie  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


DOR 


106 


DOU 


3.  A  character  in  Moliere's  "  Vt.- 
cole  des  Femmes." 

I  am  going  to  make  it  known  bluntly  to 
that  .  .  .  old  beau,  to  that  JJorunte  become  a 
GCronte.  Victor  Hugo,  Trans. 

Do-ras'tU3.  The  hero  of  an  old 
popular  "  history  "  or  romance,  upon 
which  Shakespeare  founded  his 
"  Winter's  Tale."  It  was  written  by 
Robert  Greene,  and  was  lirst  pub- 
lished in  1588.  under  the  title  of 
"Panuosto,  the  Triumph  of  Time," 
an  example,  according  to  Hallam, 
of  "  quaint,  atiected,  and  empty  eu- 
phuism." 

Do'rax  (9).  A  character  in  Dryden's 
play  of  "Don  Sebastian;  "  'repre- 
sented as  a  noble  Portuguese  turned 
renegade. 

4®="Dorax  is  the  chp/- d'ceuvre  of 
Drylen's  tr;i2;ic  rharacters.  and  perhaps 
the  only  one  in  which  he  has  applied  his 
gre^it  kiQO  .vledge  of  human  kind  to  actual 
delineation."  Elin.  Review,  1808. 

But  some  friend  or  other  always  advised  me 
to  put  mv  verses  in  the  tire,  and,  like  Dorcur 
in  the  play,  I  submitted,  "  though  with  a 
swelling  heart."  Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Dorchester,  Patriarch  of.  See 
PAnuAitcH  OF  Dorchester. 

Doria  D'Istria  (do're-a  des'tre-a). 
A  pseudonym  of  Princess  Ivoltzoff- 
Massalsky  (ne'e  Helena  Gliika,  b. 
182.)),  a '  distinguished  Wallacliian 
authoress. 

Dor'i-court.  A  character  in  Con- 
greve's  "  Way  of  the  World." 

Dor'I-mant.  A  character  in  I'Ltherege's 
play  entitled  "  The  Man  of  Mode;" 
a  genteel  witty  rake,  designed  as  a 
portrait  of  the  Earl  of  Rochester. 

I  shall  believe  it  when  Dori  »nnt  hands  a 
fish-wife  across  the  kennel.        Charles  Lamb. 

Dorine  (do'ren').  A  hasty  and  petu- 
lant female  in  Moliere's  "  Tartutfe:  " 
represented  as  ridiculing  the  family 
that  she  yet  serv^es  with  sincere  af- 
fection. 

t)o'ris(9).  [Gr.  Aa,ot?.]  (Gr.  if- Earn. 
Myth.)  The  daughter  of  Oceanus 
and  Tethys,  and  the  wife  of  her 
brother  Xereus.  by  whom  she  became 
the  mother  of  the  Nereids. 

Dor'o-the'a  ( Ger.  pron.  do-ro-ta/s). 
1.  The  heroine  of  Goethe's  celebrat- 


ed poem  of  "  Hermann  und  Doro- 
thea." 

2.  [Sp.  Doroiea,  do-ro-ta'S.]  A 
beautiful  and  unfortunate  young 
woman  whose  adventures  form  an 
episode  in  the  romance  of  "  Don 
Quixote." 

Do'ry,  John  (9).  1.  The  title  and  hero 
of  an  old  ballad,  formerly  a  great 
favorite,  and  continually  alluded  to 
in  works  of  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth centuries. 

2.  A  character  in  "  Wild  Oats,  or 
The  Strolling  Gentleman,"  a  comedy 
by  John  O'Keefe. 

Do  what  I  might,  he    interfered  with    the 

resolute  vigor  of  John  Dory.  Hood. 

Do'the-boys  HaU.  [That  is,  the  hall 
where  boys  are  taken  in  and  "  dune 
for."]  A  model  educational  establish- 
ment described  in  Dickens's  '"  Nich- 
olas Nickleby,"  kept  by  a  villain 
named  Squeers,  whose  system  of 
tuition  consisted  of  alternate  beating 
and  starving. 

Oliver  Twist  in  the  parish  work  -  house, 
Smike  at  Dothehons  HaU,  were  petted  children 
when  compared  with  this  wretched  heir-ap- 
parent of  a  crown  [Frederick  the  Great]. 

MacauJai). 

Dotted  Bible.  A  name  given  among 
bibliographers  to  an  edition  of  the 
Bible  published  in  London,  in  folio, 
1-578,  by  assignment  of  Chr.  Barker. 
It  is  printed  page  for  page  with  that 
of  1574. 

Doubting  Castle.  In  Bunyan's  spirit- 
ual romance  of  "The  Pilgrim's  Prog- 
ress, "  a  castle  belonging  to  Giant 
Despair,  in  which  Christian  and 
Hopeful  Avere  confined,  and  from 
which  at  last  they  made  their  escape 
by  means  of  the  key  called  Promise, 
which  was  able  to  open  any  lock  in 
the  castle. 

Conceive  the  giant  Miraheau  locked  fas*, 
then,  in  Don^tinq  fVM^^cof  Vincennes  :  his  hot 
soul  surging  up,  wildly  breakins  itself  against 
cold  obstruction,  the  voice  of  his  despair  re- 
verberated on  him  by  dead  stone-walls. 

Carhjle. 

Douloureuse  Garde,  La  (IS  doo'loo'- 
niz'  gafd,  43).  [P'r.]  The  name  of  a 
castle  at  Berwick-upon-Tweed,  won 
by  Lancelot  of  the  Lake  in  one  of 
the  most  terrific  adventures  related 
in   romance,  and  thenceforth   called 


e^"  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


DOU 


107 


DRA 


La  Joyeuse    Garde.      See  Joyeuse 
Gardk,  La. 

Dous'ter-swiv'el  (-swiv'l).  1.  (Her- 
man.) A  German  schemer,  in  Sir 
\\  alter  Scott's  novel  of  "  The  Anti- 
quary." 

2.  A  nickname  given  by  the 
Scotch  reviewers  to  Dr.  John  Gaspar 
Spurzheiui  (17G6-1832),  a  native  of 
Germany,  a  distinguished  craniolo- 
gist,  and  an  active  promulgator  of 
the  doctrines  of  phrenology  in  Great 
Britain. 

Dove,  Doctor.     See  Doctor  Dove. 

D6w,  Jr.  A  pseudonvm  adopted  by 
Eldridge  F.  Paige  (d.  1859),  an  Eng- 
lish lunnorist,  author  of  ''Patent 
Sermons,"    tJcc. 

Down'ing,  Jack.  A  pseudonym 
under  which  Seba  Smith,  an  Ameri- 
can writer,  wrote  a  series  of  humor- 
ous and  popular  letters  ( tirst  published 
collectively  in  1833),  in  the  Yankee 
dialect,  on  the  political  attairs  of  the 
United  States. 

Dra'co.  [Gr.  ^.paKojv.']  An  Athenian 
lawgiver,  whose  code  punished 
almost  all  crimes  with  death;  whence 
it  was  said  to  be  not  that  of  a  man 
but  of  a  dragon  (SpaKi^y),  and  to  have 
been  written  not  in  ink  but  in  blood. 

Dragon  of  "Want'ley.  The  subject 
of  an  f)ld  comic  ballad,  —  a  frightful 
and  devouring  monster,  killed  by 
More  of  More-Hall,  who  procured  a 
suit  of  armor  studded  all  over  with 
long  sharp  spikes,  and,  concealing 
himself  in  a  well  resorted  to  by  the 
dragon,  kicked  him  in  the  mouth, 
Avhere  alone  he  was  mortal.  This 
legend  has  been  made  the  founda- 
tion of  a  burlesque  opera  by  Heniy 
Carey.  Wanthy  is  a  vulgar  pro- 
nsnciation  of  VA'arnclifF,  the  name 
of  a  lodge  and  a  wood  in  the  parish 
of  Penniston,  in  Yorkshire. 

Dra'pi-er,  M.  B.,.  A  pseudonym 
under  which  Swift  addressed  a  series 
of  celebrated  and  remarkable  letters 
to  the  people  of  Ireland,  relative  to  a 
patent  right  granted  by  George  T.,  in 
1723,  to  one  William  Wood,  allow- 
ing him,  in  consideration  of  the  great 
Avant  of  copper  money  existing  in 
Ireland   at  that  time,  to  coin   half- 


pence and  farthings  to  the  amount  of 
i-108,0UU,  to  pass  current  in  that 
kingdom.  xVs  the  patent  had  been 
obtained  in  what  may  be  termed  a 
surreptitious  manner,  through  the 
influence  of  the  Duchess  of  Kendal, 
the  mistress  of  George  I.,  to  whom 
Wood  had  promised  a  share  of  the 
profits;  as  it  was  passed  without 
consulting  either  the  lord  lieutenant 
or  the  privy  council  of  Ireland;  and 
as  it  devoured  uj)on  an  obscur.  indi- 
vidual the  right  of  exercising  one  of 
the  highest  privileges  of  the  crown, 
therebj'  disgracefully  compromising 
the  dignity  of  the  kingdom,  —  Swift, 
under  the  assumed  character  of  a 
draper  (which  tor  some  reason  he 
chose  to  write  drupier),  warned  the 
people  not  to  receive  the  coin  that 
was  sent  over  to  them.  Such  was 
the  unequaled  adroitness  of  his 
letters,  such  their  strength  of  argu- 
ment and  brilliancy  of  humor,  that, 
in  the  end,  they  were  completely 
successful:  Wood  was  compelled  to 
withdraw  his  obnoxious  patent,  and 
his  copper  coinage  was  totally  sup- 
pressed, while  the  Drapier — for 
whose  discovery  a  reward  of  .£300 
had  been  offered  in  vain  —  Avas  re- 
garded as  the  liberator  of  Ireland; 
his  health  became  a  perpetual  toast, 
his  head  Avas  adopted  as  a  sign,  a 
clubAvas  formed  in  honor  of  him,  and 
his  portrait  was  displayed  in  every 
street. 
DraAv'can-sir.  The  name  of  a  blus- 
tenng,  bullying  felloAV  in  the  cele- 
brated mock-heroic  play  of  "The 
Rehearsal,"  Avritten  by  George  Vil- 
liers,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  assisted 
by  Sprat  and  others.  He  is  repre- 
sented as  taking  part  in  a  battle, 
where,  after  killing  all  the  combat- 
ants on  both  sides,  he  makes  an  ex- 
travagantly boastful  speech.  From 
the  popularity  of  the  character,  the 
name  became  a  synonym  for  a  brag- 
gart. 

j8fg=-  ^'Johnson.  Pray,  Mr.  Bayes,  who 
is  that  Drawcmsir? 

Eni/fs.  Why,  sir,  a  ^eat  hero,  that 
fritr'its  his  mistress,  snubs  up  kings, 
baffles  armies,  and  does  what  he  will, 
without  regard  to  numbers,  good  sense, 
or  justice."  Tke   Rtkearsal. 


fiiA.  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


DRI 


108 


DUE 


The  leader  wa."!  of  an  ugly  IfKik  and  pigantic 
•tntiire;  he  ueted  like  u  Jjraircaiu^ir,  K|)aring 
neither  friend  nor  toe.  Athlison. 

In  defiance  of  the  young  Drnvatni'ir'f 
tlneats,  with  a  stont  heart  and  dauntless  ac- 
cent, he  again  uplifted  t!ie  iitave,  — 

"  The  Pope.  th:it  pagan  full  of  pride, 
Hath  blinded ?'  Sir  W.  Scott. 

How  they  [the  actors  in  the  P'rench  Kcvolu- 
tion]  bellowed,  stalked,  and  flourished  about, 
counterfeiting  Jove's  thunder  to  an  amazing 
degree  I  terrine  Z>»'«»(r««.--/r-rtgure8,  of  enor- 
mous whiskei-age,  unlimited  command  of 
gunpowder;  not  withcjut  ferocity,  and  even  a 
certain  hennsm,  stage  heroism,  in  them. 

Curbjle. 

Drish-een'  City.  A  name  popularly 
givi'U  t<»  the  eity  of  Cork,  from  a  dish 
peculiar  to  the  place,  and  formerly  a 
very  fashionable  one  among  tiie  in- 
habitants. Drisheens  are  made  of 
the  serum  of  the  blood  of  sheep  mixed 
■with  milk  and  seasoned  with  pepper, 
f^alt,  and  tansy.  They  are  usually 
served  hot  for  breakiast,  and  are 
eaten  with  drawn  butter  and  pepper. 

Dro'gi-o.  The  name  given,  by  Anto- 
nio Zeno,  a  A^enetian  voyager  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  to  a  country  of 
vast  extent,  equivalent  to  a  new 
world.  It  is  represented  as  lying 
to  the  south  and  Avest  of  Estotiland, 
and,  by  those  who  confided  in  the 
narrative,  was  identitied  with  Nova 
Scotia  and  New  England.  The  whole 
story  is  thought  to  be  fabulous. 

Dro'mi-o   of  Eph'e-sus.  )        T^vin 
Dro'mi-o   of  Syr'a-ciise.  \  brothers, 
attendants  on  the  two  Antipholuses 
in    Shakespeare's    "  Comedy   of  Er- 
rors." 

Drugger,  Abel.  A  character  in  Ben 
.hinson"s   "  Alchemist." 

Drum,  John.  A  name  used  in  the 
phrase,  "  .Tohn  Drmn's  entertain- 
ment," which  seems  to  have  been 
formerly  a  proverbial  ex]3ression  for 
ill  treatment,  prol)al)ly  alluding  orig- 
inally to  some  particular  anecdote. 
Most  of  the  allusions  seem  to  point 
to  the  dismissing  of  some  unwelcome 
guest,  with  more  or  less  of  ignominy 
and  insult.  [^\'ritten  also,  though 
rar.'ly,  Tom  Drum.] 

Oh.  for  the  love  of  laughter,  let  him  fetch  his 
drum:  he  snys  he  has  a  stratagem  for  it:  when 
your  lordship  sees  the  bottom  of  his  success 
in  't,  and  to  whnt  met^d  this  counterfeit  lump 
of  ore  will  be  melted,  if  you  gire  him  not  John 
Drum'.'i  entertainment, "your  inclining  cannot 
be  removed.  Shak. 


Tom  Drum  his  entertainment,  which  is  to 
hale  a  man  in  by  the  head,  and  thrust  him  out 
by  botli  the  slKndders.  StanihursU 

Drunken  Parliament.  (Scot.  Hist.) 
A  name  given  to  the  Parliament 
whicli  assembled  at  Edinburgh,  .Ian. 
1,  KJGl,  soon  artt^r  the  restoration  of 
the  Stuarts,  liurnet  says,  "  It  was  a 
mad,  warring  time,  full  of  extrava- 
gance ;  and  no  wonder  it  was  so  when 
the  men  of  aliairs  were  almost  per- 
petually drunk." 

Dry'ads.  [Lat.  Dryachs,  Gr.  ApuaSes.] 
{(Jr.  Cf- Ram.  Myth.)  Nymphs  who 
presided  over  the  woods,  and  were 
thought  to  perish  with  the  trees 
Avhicli  were  their  abode. 

Dry'as-dust,  The  Kev.  Dr.  An 
imaginary  personage  who  selves  as 
a  sort  of  introducer  of  some  of  Scott's 
novels  to  the  public,  tinough  the 
medium  of  prefatory  letters,  purport- 
ing to  be  written  either  to  him  or  by 
him,  in  relation  to  their  origin  and 
histoiy.  The  name  is  sometimes 
used  to  stigmatize  a  didl,  plodding 
author,  particularly  an  historian  or  a 
writer  upon  antiquities. 

Nobody,  he  must  have  felt,  wa.s  ever  likely 
to  study  this  great  work  of  his,  not  even  Dr. 
Driiasd'ust.  Dc  (juiiicei/. 

There  was  a  Shandean  library  at  Skelton 
that  would  have  captivated  the  most  a>cetic 
of  Dn/as(lusts.  Percu  FitzgeruUl. 

Truth  is,  the  Prussian  Druascbist.  otherwise 
an  honest  fellow,  excels  all  other  Dri/nsflu.^ts 
vet  known.  I  have  often  sorrowfully  felt  at 
if  there  were  not  in  Nature,  for  diirkness, 
dreariness,  inimethodic  platitude,  anv  thing 
comparable  to  him.  Carlyle. 

Dry'o-pe.  [Gr.  Apvotttj.]  (  Gr.  if  liom. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  King  Dryops, 
and  the  wife  of  Andra-nn>n,  —  turned 
into  a  ])oi)lar  or  a  lotus  by  the  Ham- 
adryads. She  had  a  son  Amphis- 
sos  by  Apollo. 

'T  wns  a  lay 
Atore  suhtle-cadeneed,  more  forest-wild 
Than  iJryone's  lone  lulling  of  her  child. 

Keats. 

Du-es's§i.  [That  is,  double-minded.] 
A  fold  witch,  in  Spenser's  '"  l'"aer\' 
Queen,"  who,  under  the  assumed 
name  of  Fidessa,  and  the  assumed 
character  of  a  distressed  and  lovely 
woman,  entices  the  Ked-cross  Ivnight 
into  the  House  of  Pride,  where,  ener- 
vated by  self-indulgence,  he  is  at- 
tacked, defeated,  and  imprisoned  by 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the   accompanying  Explaaatiou*, 


DUK 


109 


DUM 


the  giant  Orgop;lio.  Duossa  becomes 
tlie  paramour  of'Oi'goglio,  wlio  decks 
licr  out  iu  gorgeous  onianients,  gives 
lier  a  gold  and  purple  robe  to  wear, 
puts  a  triple  crown  on  her  head,  and 
sets  her  upon  a  monstrous  beast  with 
sevcii  heads,  —  from  which  circum- 
stances the  poet  is  sup})osed  to  typity 
the  Koman  Catholic  church.  Una, 
having  heard  of  the  Ked  -  cross 
Knight's  misfortune,  sends  Prince 
Authur  to  his  rescue,  Avho  slays  the 
giant,  wounds  the  beast,  releases  the 
knight,  and  strips  Duessa  of  her 
splendid  trappings,  upon  which  she 
flees  into  the  wilderness  to  hide  her 
shame  from  the  world. 

At  present,  thoiiirh  her  eves  [those  of"  pop- 
ish bi{;otrv"J  are  lilindtnldcil,  her  limds  are 
tied  beliind  lier,  like  the  folse  Duessa's. 

HazUtt. 

Tlie  people  had  now  to  see  tyranny  naked. 
That  foul  JJuessa  was  stripped  of  her  Rorgeous 
ornaments.  Macaulaii. 

Compassion  and  romantic  honor,  the  prej- 
udices of  cliildhood,  and  the  venerable  names 
of  history,  threw  over  them  a  spell  as  ])otent 
ttfl  tliat  of  DuesMi;  and,  like  the  Red-cross 
Knisht^  they  thought  they  were  doing  battle 
for  an  injured  beauty,  while  they  defended  a 
false  and'loathsome  sorceress.  Macaula>/. 

Duke  Humphrey.  1.  A  name  used 
in  an  old  expression,  "  To  dine  with 
Duke  Humphrey,"  that  is,  to  have  no 
dinner  at  all.  This  phrase  is  said  to 
have  arisen  from  the  circumstance 
that  a  part  of  the  public  walks  iu 
old  Saint  Paul's,  London,  was  called 
Duke  Humphrey's  Walk,  and  that 
those  who  were  w^ithout  the  means 
of  defraying  their  expenses  at  a 
tavern  were  formerly  accustomed  to 
walk  here  in  hope  of  procuring  an 
hivitation. 

4®^  "In  the  form  Hiimfrpy^  it  [Iluni- 
fred]  was  much  used  by  the  grett  house 
of  Boliun,  and  through  his  mother,  their 
heiress,  desceniled  to  the  ill-f  ited  son  of 
Henry  IV.,  who  has  left  it  an  open  ques- 
tion whether  'dining  with  Duke  Hum- 
phrey '  alludes  to  the  report  th-it  he  was 
starved  to  death,  or  to  the  Elizabethan 
habit  for  poor  geiitility  to  beguile  the 
dinner-hour  by  a  pi'omenade  neir  his 
tomb  in  old  St.  Paul's."'  Yonge. 

It  distinctly  appears  .  .  .  that  one  Diggory 
Chu»:':lewit  was  in  the  habit  of  perpetually 
dining  with  Didr  /fiini/ihrfi/.  So  constantly 
was  lie  a  guest  at  that  nobleman's  table,  in- 
deed, and  so  unceasingly  were  his  Grace's 
hospitality  and  companionship  forced,  as  it 


were,  upon  him,  that  wc  find  him  uneasy,  and 

full  (if  constraint  and  reluctance;  wiiting  his 
IVieuds  to  the  effect,  tluit,  if  they  fail  to  do  so 
and  so  li.\'  boai'c.'.  In-  wiH  hive  no  choice  but 
to  diue  again  with  Duke  llaiiqtlirtij.    Jjicketis. 

2.  Duke    Humphrey,    the    Good. 
See  Good  Dukk  Humpiikey. 

Dulcamara,  Doctor.      See  Doctor 

Dl'LC'AMAKA. 

Dulcifluous  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
JJulciJluus.]  A  name  given  to  An- 
tony Andreas  (d.  Io20),  a  Spanish 
Minorite,  and  a  theologian  of  the 
school  of  Dims  Scotus. 

Dulcinea  del  Toboso  (did-sin^e-DL 
del  to-bo^zo;  !Sj).  j}ron.  dool-the- 
nri'ii  del  to-bo^zo).  In  Cervantes'sro- 
nuuice,  the  mistress  of  Don  (Quixote. 
"  Her  name  was  Aldonza  Lorenzo, 
and  her  he  pitched  upon  to  be  the 
lady  of  his  thoughts;  then  casting 
about  for  a  name  which  should  have 
some  alhnity  with  her  own,  and  yet 
incline  toward  that  of  a  great  lady 
and  ])rincess,  he  resolved  to  call  her 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso  (for  she  was 
born  at  that  ])lace),  a  name,  to  his 
thinking,  harmonious,  uncommon, 
and  signiticant."  The  name  Dulcinea 
is  often  used  as  synonymous  with 
mistress  or  sweetheart. 

I  must  ever  have  some  Dulcinea  in  my 
head,  —  it  harmonizes  the  soul.  Sterne. 

If  thou  expectcst  a  fine  description  of  this 
j-oung  womni,  in  order  to  entitle  thee  to  taunt 
me  with  having  found  a  Dulcinea  in  the  in- 
habitant of  a  fisheriu'in's  cottige  on  the  Sol- 
way  Frith,  thou  shalt  be  disappointed. 

Sir  IV.  Scott. 

His  moodiness  must  have  made  him  per- 
fectly odious  to  his  friends  under  tlie  teiits- 
who  like  a  jolly  fellow,  and  1  jugh  ft  ;i  tnel  m- 
choly  warrior  always  sighing  vStar  Dulrinca  at 
home.  Thackeray. 

Du-maine',  A  lord  attending  on  the 
king  of  Navarre,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Love's  Labor  's  Lost." 

Dum'ble-dikes.  A  young  and  bash- 
ful Scotch  laird,  in  love  with  Jeanie 
Deans,  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel, 
"  The  Heart  of  Mid-Lothian." 

Dumb  Ox.  [Lat.  Bos  Mutus.]  St. 
Thomas  Aquinas  ;  —  said  to  have 
been  so  named  by  his  fellow-pupils 
at  Cologne,  on  account  of  his  silence 
and  apj)arent  stupidity.  His  teacher, 
however,  detected  the  genius  that 
was  wrapped  up  under  his  taciturnity, 


*nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  a^*er  certain  -vfords  refer,  Fee  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


DUN 


110 


DUR 


and  remarked,  that,  if  that  ox  should 
once  begin  to  bellow,  the  world  would 
be  Idled  with  the  noise.  He  was 
afterwards  known  as  the  "  Angel  of 
the  Schools"  and  the  "■  Angelic  Doc- 
tor." 

j8®=  ''  lie  was  the  Aristotle  of  Chris- 
tianity, whose  legislation  lie  drew  up,  en- 
deavoring to  recoiK'ile  logic  witli  faith  for 
the  suppression  of  all  heresy.  .  .  .  His 
overpowering  task  utterly  absorbed  this 
extraordinary  man,  and  occupied  liis 
whole  life,  to  the  exclusion  of  all  else,  —  a 
life  that  was  entirely  one  of  abstnictioii, 
and  whose  events  are  ideas.  From  five 
years  of  age  he  took  the  Scriptures  in  liis 
hand,  and  iKJiueforward  never  ceased 
from  meditation.  In  the  schools,  lie  was 
called  by  his  companions  the  i^n at  Uimib 
ox  of  Sicily,  lie  only  broke  this  silence 
to  dictate  ;  and  wiien  sleep  closed  the 
eyes  of  his  body,  those  of  his  soul  re- 
mained open,  and  lie  went  on  still  dic- 
tating. One  day,  at  sea,  he  was  not  con- 
scious of  a  fearful  tempest ;  another,  so 
deep  was  his  abstraction,  he  did  not  let 
fill  Ji  lighted  caudle  which  was  burning 
liis  fingers."  Michelrt,  Trans.  Miche- 
let,  in  a  note,  says  of  this  surname ,  that 
it  is  "full  of  meaning  to  all  who  have 
noticed  the  dreamy  and  monumental  ap- 
pearance of  tiie  ox  of  Southern  Italy."' 
St.  Thomas  is  described  as  a  large-bodied 
man,  fit  and  upright,  of  a  brown  com- 
plexion, and  with  a  large  head,  somewhat 
bald. 

Of  a  truth  it  almost  makes  me  laugh, 

To  soe  men  liviving  tlie  golden  grain, 

Ti)  giitliT  in  jiiles  the  iiitifiil  c1\aff 

That  old  Peter  Lombard   thrashed  with  hia 

brain. 
To  have  it  caught  up  and  tossed  again 
On  the  horns  of  the  Dumb  Ox  of  Cologne  I 

Longfellow. 

Dun'cS,n  (dnngk'an).  A  kingof  Scot- 
land immortalizod  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  "  ]\rai'beth."  Shakespeare 
represents  him  as  murdered  by  Mac- 
beth, who  succeeds  to  the  Scottish 
throne;  but,  according  to  veritable 
history,  he  fell  in  battle. 

Dunces'  Parliament.  See  Parlia- 
ment OF  DUNCKS. 

Dundas,  Starvation.  See  Starva- 
tion DrNo.vs. 

Dun-drear'y,  Lord.  A  grotesque 
character  in  Taylor's  comedy,  "  Our 
American  Cousin  ;  "  noted  ^  for  his 
aristocratic  haughtiness  of  manner, 
his  weakness  and  excessive  indolence 


of  mind,  his  habit  of  discontinuity 
in  exjircssion,  his  great  admiration 
of  "  lirothcr  Sam,"  and  his  suspi- 
cion of  insanity  in  his  friends,  if, 
from  any  motive  which  he  does  not 
understand,  they  con.stantly  cross  his 
convenience.  The  name  is  u.sed  al- 
lusively to  characterize  any  empty 
swell. 

Dun  Ed'in.  A  Celtic  assimilation  of 
the  name  Edinburgh  (i.  e.,  Edwin's 
burgh),  serving  at  the  .same  time  as  a 
descriptive  designation  of  its  site,  the 
words  meaning  "  the  face  of  a  rock." 
In  Scottisli  poetry,  the  name  is  often 
used  as  a  .synonym  for  Ldinburyh. 
[Written  also  Dune  din,  as  a  sin- 
gle word.] 

When  the  streets  of  high  Dunadin 
Saw  lances  gleam,  ancl  falchions  redden, 
And  heard  the  slogan's  deadly  yell, — 
Then  the  Chief  of  Brunksonie  fell. 

:Sir  IF.  Scott. 
No,  not  vet,  thou  high  Dun  Ediii, 

Shalt  thou  tdtter  to  thy  fall; 
Though  tliv  bravest  unci  thy  strongest 

Are  not  tliere  to  man  the  wall.        Aytoun. 

Dun-shun'ner,  Augustus.  A  nom 
de  plume  of  Professor  AVilliam  Ed- 
monstoune  Aytoun  (1813-1865),  in 
"  lilackwood's  Magazine." 

Durandal  (doo'r6"'dal').  [Of  uncer- 
tain etymology.  The  root  is  probably 
the  Fr.  du>\  hard,  durer,  to  resist.] 
The  name  of  a  marvelous  sword  of 
Orlando,  the  renowned  hero  of  ro- 
mance. It  is  said  to  have  been  the 
Avorkmanship  of  the  fairies,  who  en- 
dued it  with  such  Avonderful  properties 
that  its  owner  was  able  to  cleave  the 
Pyrenees  with  it  at  a  blow.  See  Or- 
LAxno.  [Written  also  D  u  r  a  n  d  a  r  t, 
D  u  r  i  n  d  a  n  e,  D  u  r  i  n  d  a  1  e,  D  u- 
r  i  n  d  a  n  a,  D  u  r  e  n  d  a,  D  u  r  e  n  d  a  1, 
and  Durlindana.] 

Durandarte  (doo-r5n-dar'ta).  A  fab- 
ulous hero  of  Spain,  celebrated  in  the 
aiu'ient  ballads  of  that  country,  and 
in  the  romances  of  chivalry.  Cer- 
vantes has  introduced  him,  in  "  Don 
(Quixote,"  in  the  celebrated  adven- 
ture of  the  knight  in  the  Cave  of 
INIontcsinos.  He  is  represented  as  a 
cousin  of  Montesinos,  and,  like  him, 
a  peer  of  France.  At  the  liattle  of 
Roncesvalles,  he  expires  in  the  anm 
of  Montesinos.    Both  of  these  char- 


For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   ExplanatioDi, 


DUR 


111 


DUR 


acters   are  regarded  by  Ticknor  as 
imaginary  personages. 

In  the  moun  time,  us  Durunilarte  savs  in  the 
Ciive  ut' -Muutcsinus,  "Patience,  unil  shntHe 
the  curds."  bijrua. 

Dur'den,  Dame  (diir^dn)-  !•  The 
heroine  of  a  popuhir  English  song. 
She  is  described  as  a  notable  house- 
wife, and  the  mistress  of  niniierous 
serving-girls  and  laboring  men. 
2.  A  sobriquet  applied  to  Esther 


Summerson,  the  heroine  of  Dickens's 
"lileak  House." 

Durga  (dimr^ga).  { flimlu  Myth.)  The 
consort  of  Siva,  represented  a^  having 
ten  arms. 

Dur'ward,  Quen'tin.  The  hero  of 
Scott's  novel  of  the  same  name;  q 
young  archer  of  the  Scottish  guard 
in  the  service  of  Louis  XI.  of 
France. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  bee  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


EAG 


112 


ECS 


E. 


Eagle  of  Brittany.     [Fr.  VAigle  de 
Jjrttin/tit-.]     A  title   bestowed   upon 
Bertraiid  du   Gue-scliu    (d.    i;J8()),  a 
native  of  Brittany,  and  constable  of 
!•  ranee,  renowned  lor  his  gallantry 
and  military  skill. 
Eagle  of  Divines.     A  title  bestowed 
i.pon  Thomas  Atjuinas,   the   famous 
tiieologian  of  the  thirteenth  century. 
See  Dlmb  (Jx. 
Eagle   of   French    Doctors.      [Fr. 
Ju'Afi//e  (Its  JJuftturs  dt  Fr<i/tce.^     A 
surname  given  to  Pierre  d'Ailly  (1350- 
14-25),   a  celebrated  French   cardinal 
and  theological  disputant. 
Eagle  of  Meaux  (mo).     [Fr.  L'AhJe 
lit  Mt(Uiu.-.\     A  name  popularly  given 
to  Jacques   Benigne   Bossuet  (1627- 
1704),  a  French  divine  celebrated  for 
his   extraordinary   powers   of  pulpit 
eloquence,  and  for  many  years  bishop 
of  Meaux. 
Eastern  States.     A  name  popvdarly 
given,  in  America,   to  the   six  New 
England  States, —  Maine,  New  Hamp- 
shire. Vermont.  ^^lassachusetts,  Fihode 
Island,  and  Connecticut. 
Eblis   {Arnb.   pron.   ib-lees').       The 
name  given  by  the  Arabians  to  the 
prince  of  the  "apostate  angels,  whom 
they  represent  as  exiled  to  the  in- 
fernal regions  for  refusing  to  worship 
Adam  at  the  conmiand   of  the    Su- 
preme.   Eblis  alleged,  in  justification 
of  his  refusal,  that  he   himself  had 
been  formed  of  ethereal    fire.  Avhile 
Adam  was  only  a  creature  of  clay. 
To  gratit\-  his  revenge,  Eblis  tempted 
Adam  and   Eve,   and   succeeded   in 
leading  them  to  their  fall  fi-om  inno- 
cence, in  consequence  of  which  they 
were  separated.     The  Mohammedans 
say.  that,  at  the  moment  of  the  birth 
of  their  prophet,  the  throne  of  Eblis 
was  precipitated  to  the  bottom  of  hell, 
and  the  idols  of  the  Gentiles  were 
overturned.     According  to  some,  he 
is   the    same    as   the    Azazel  of  the 
Hebrews.     [Written  also  Iblis.] 
Ebony.      [That  is.  Black  wood.]      A 
humorous  appellation  given  to  Mr. 


William  Blackwood  (1777-1804),  the 
original  publisher  of  "  Blackwood's 
^Magazine."  He  was  so  called  by 
Jaiucs  Hogg,  the  *'  F2ttrick  Shep- 
herd," in  a  famous  jeu  (tisprit,  en- 
titled "  The  Chaldee  Maimscript," 
which  apjjeared  in  the  ninnbcr  tor 
October,  1817,  but  Avas  immediately 
suppressed  on  account  of  its  perso- 
nalities and  alleged  immorality.  The 
name  is  sometimes  used  as  a  synonym 
for  the  magazine  itself. 

Ech'o  {Lat.  pron.  e'ko).  [Gr.  'Hxni.] 
{(Jr.  if  Horn,  ^fytft.)  An  oread,  who 
fell  desperately  in  love  Avith  Narcis- 
sus. As  her  love  Avas  not  returned, 
she  pined  away  in  grief,  until  at  last 
there  remained  of  her  nothing  but 
her  voice. 

Eckhardt,  The  Faithful  (ek'hart, 
64).  [Ger.  Btr  trtue  Jick-hardt.]  A 
legendaiy  hero  of  Germany,  repre- 
sented as  an  old  man  Avith  a  Avhite 
stall',  Avho,  in  Eisleben,  appears  on 
the  eAening  of  ^laundy -  Thursday, 
and  driA'es  all  the  people  into  their 
houses,  to  saA-e  them  from  being 
harmed  by  a  terrible  procession  of 
dead  men.  headless  bodies,  and  tAvo- 
legged  horses,  AA'hich  immediately 
alter  passes  by.  Other  traditions 
represent  him  as  the  companion  of 
the  knight  Tannhauser,  and  as  Avarn- 
ing  travelers  from  the  Yenusberg,  the 
mountain  of  fatal  delights  in  the  old 
mythology  of  Germany.  Tieck  has 
founded  a  story  upon  this  legend, 
Avhich  has  been'  translated  into  Eng- 
lish by  Carlyle,  in  Avhich  Eckhardt 
is  described  as  the  good  servant  Avho 
perishes  to  saA-e  his  master's  children 
from  the  seducing  fiends  of  the  moun- 
tain. The  German  proverb,  "  Thou 
art  the  faithful  Eckhardt :  thou  Avarii- 
est  everA'  one,"  is  founded  upon  this 
tradition.     See  T.\x.NHArsER,  Sir. 

Ecstatic  Doctor.  [I.at.  Doctor  Erstat- 
/r»,s.]  An  honorarA'  appellation  con- 
ferred upon  .lean  RuA-sbroek  (1294- 
1381),  one  of  the  old  schoolmen.  He 
was  prior  of  the  Canons  Regular  of 


eg-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  \rith  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


EDG 


113 


ELA 


St.  Augustine  at  Griinthal  in  Brabant, 
and  a  mystic. 

.Eidgar.  Son  to  Gloster,  in  Shake- 
j^peare's  tragedy  of  "  Lear." 

Edict,  Perpetual.  See  Pekfetual 
Edict. 

Edict  of  Nantes  (nants,  or  no"t,  G2). 
(Fr.  Hist.)  A  celebrated  decree, 
dated  at  Nantes,  in  1598,  by  which 
Henry  IV.  of  France  granted  tolera- 
tion to  his  Protestant  subjects,  it  was 
revoked  by  Louis  XIV.,  on  the  18th 
of  October,  1G85.  The  result  of  this 
desj)otic  act  was,  that,  rather  than 
conform  to  the  established  religion, 
400,000  Protestants  —  among  "  the 
most  industrious,  intelligent,  and  re- 
ligious of  the  nation  —  quitted  France, 
and  took  refuge  in  Great  Britain, 
Holland,  Prussia,  Switzerland,  and 
America. 

Edict  of  Restitution.  {Ger.  Hist.) 
A  decree  issued,  in  1(329,  by  the  Em- 
peror Frederick  II.  of  Germany,  re- 
quiring the  relinquishment  of  many 
church  lands. 

Ed'in,  or  E-di'na.  A  poetical  name 
for  Kdinbiiryh,  said  to  have  been  in- 
troduced by  Buchanan,  the  Scottish 
poet. 

Edina!  Scotia's  darling  seat ! 

All  hail  thy  palaces  and  towers. 
Where  once,  beneath  a  monarch's  feet. 

Sat  legislation's  sovereign  powers. 

Bums. 

Edmonton,  'Witcli  of.  See  Witch 
OF  Edmonton. 

Edmund.  A  bastard  son  of  Gloster, 
in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Lear." 

Edwin.  1.  The  hero  of  Goldsmith's 
ballad  entitled  "The  Hermit." 

2.  The  hero  of  Mallet's  ballad  of 
"  Edwin  and  Emma." 

3.  The  hero  ofBeattie's"  Minstrel." 
Egalit6  (a'gil'le'ta').     [Fr.,  equality.] 

A  name  assumed,  in  1792,  by  Louis 
Philippe  Joseph,  Duke  of  Orleans 
(born  1747,  guillotined  1793),  in  place 
of  his  hereditary  title,  in  order  to 
court  the  favor  of  the  populace. 
E-ge'ri-a (9).  {Rom.  Jfyth.)  A  nymph 
from  whom  King  Numa  Ponipilius 
was  fabled  to  have  received  his  in- 
structions respecting  the  forri^s  of  pul)- 
lic  worship  which  he  established  in 


Rome.  Their  interviews  took  place  in 
a  grove  near  Aricia,  or,  according  to 
some  versions  of  the  story,  near  Rome. 

E-ge'us.  Father  to  Hermia,  in 
Siiakespeare's  "  Midsummer-Night's 
Dream." 

Eg'la-mour.  1.  A  character  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Two  Gentlemen  of  Vero- 
na," who  is  an  agent  of  Silvia  in 
her  escape. 

2.  (Sir.)  A  valiant  knight  of  the 
Round  Table,  celebrated  in  the  ro- 
mances of  chivalry,  and  in  an  old 
ballad.   [Written  also  K  g  1  a  m  o  r  e.J 

Eg'lan-tine,  Madame.  The  name 
of  the  prioress,  in  Chaucer's  "'Can- 
terbury Tales."  She  is  distinguished 
for  the  mixture,  in  her  manners  and 
costume,  of  gentle  worldly  vanities 
and  ignorance  of  the  world ;  for  her 
gayety,  and  the  ever-visible  difficulty 
she  feels  in  putting  on  an  air  of 
courtly  hauteur;  for  the  lady -like 
delicacy  of  her  manners  at  table;  and 
for  her  partiality  to  lap-dogs. 

Egypt.  A  cant  popular  designation 
of  the  southern  portion  of  the  State 
of  Illinois,  —  being  a  figurative  al- 
lusion to  the  "  thick  darkness  "  in 
which  ancient  Egypt  was  involved 
for  three  days,  in  the  time  of  Closes ; 
or,  as  some  sav,  to  the  extraordinary 
fertility  of  that  country.  The  inhab- 
itants of  Southern  Illinois  have  had 
the  reputation  of  being,  in  general, 
extremely  ignorant.  In  its  agnVult- 
ural  capabilities,  and  in  actual  fruit- 
fulness,  this  region  is  unsur]>assed,  if 
not  unequaled,  by  any  other  in  the 
United  States. 

Egypt,  Little.  See  Lords  of  Lit- 
TI.I-:  Egypt. 

Egyptian  Thief.  A  personage  al- 
luded to  by  the  Duke  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Twelfth  Night"  (a.  v.,  sc. 
1 ).  The  reference  is  to  the  story  of 
Thyamis,  a  robber-chief  and  native 
of  Memphis,  who,  knt)wing  he  must 
die,  would  have  stabbed  liis  captive 
Chariclea,  a  woman  whom  he  loved. 

E-laine'.  A  mythic  lady  connected 
with  the  romances  of  King  Arthur's 
court.  Her  story  is  treated  by  Ten- 
nyson in  his  "  Idylls  of  the  King." 


»nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ELB 


114 


ELI 


Elbow.  A  constable,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Mtasure  lor  .Measure,"  —  ignorant 
and  teeble-minded,  but  modest  and 
\vell-nit'aiiiiig. 

El  Do-ra'do,  or  ElDo-ra'do.     [Sp., 

the  gohleii  huid.J  A  name  given  by 
the  Spaniards  to  an  in)aginar\-  coun- 
try, supposed,  in  the  sixtLeiith  cen- 
tury, lo  be  situated  in  the  interior  of 
JSoutli  America,  between  tile  rivers 
Orinoco  and  Amazon,  and  to  abound 
in  gold  and  all  manner  of  precious 
stones.  Expeditions  were  titled  out 
for  the  purpose  of  discovering  this 
labulous  region;  and,  though  all  such 
attempts  proved  abortive,  the  rumors 
of  its  existence  continued  to  be  be- 
lieved down  to  the  begiiming  of  the 
eighteenth  centuiy. 

ijt^  It  is  said  that  the  name  was  at 
first  applied  not  to  a  country,  but  t<»  a 
man,  '^  el  rey  dorado."'  !Sir  Walter  Rji- 
leigh,  in  his  '•  Discovery  of  the  Large, 
Kich.  and  Beautiful  Empire  of  Guiaua," 
gives  a  description  of  the  rising  of  this 
gilded  king,  whose  chauiberiaius,  every 
morning,  after  having  rubbed  his  naked 
body  with  aromatic  oils,  blew  powdered 
gold  over  it  through  long  canes.  After 
the  name  came  to  be  used  as  the  designa- 
tion of  a  country,  it  swrns  to  have  been 
variously  applied,  and  the  expeditions  in 
search  of  the  golden  land  had  different 
destinations.  The  whole  of  Guiana  was 
sometimes  included  in  the  term.  Hum- 
boldt, while  exploring  the  countries  upon 
the  Upper  Orinoco,  was  informed  that  the 
portion  of  Eastern  Guiana  lying  between 
the  rivers  Essequibo  Jind  Branco  was  •'  the 
cla.sisic.al  .«oil  of  the  Dorado  of  Parima." 
Francis  Orellana.  a  companion  of  Pizarro, 
first  spread  in  Europe  the  account  of  this 
fabulous  region. 

In  short,  tbo  whole  eomedv  is  a  sort  of  El 
Dorado  of  wit.  whore  the  precious  metal  is 
thrown  nboi\t  hv  nil  clnsses  ns  carelessly  as  if 
they  had  not  the  lea-st  idea  of  its  value. 

T.  Moore. 

There  stoodest  thou,  in  deep  mountain  am- 
phitheater, on  iiinhrafreons  lawns,  in  the 
serene  solitude:  stately,  massive,  nil  of  grnnite, 
plltterinir  in  the  western  sunbenms,  like  a 
palace  of  El  Dorado,  overlaid  with  precious 
metal.  Carhjle. 

E-lec'tra.  [Or.  "HAe^cToa.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  }f)ifh.)  X  daughter  of  Aga- 
memnon and  Clytemnestra.  and  the 
sister  of  Iphigenia.  She  became  the 
accomph'oe  of  Orestes  in  the  murder 
of  their  mother.  See  Clytemnestra 
and  Orestes. 


Eleven  Thousand  Virgins,  Th«. 
Celebrated  characters  in  Roman 
Catholic  histor\'.  The  legend  con- 
cerning tliem  —  which  underwent 
some  enlargements  in  the  course  of 
time — can  be  traced  back  as  tar  as 
the  ninth  century,  and  is  substan- 
tially as  follows:  Ursula,  a  i^aiid  of 
the  Catholic  church,  being  demanded 
in  marriage  by  a  pagan  prince,  and 
fearing  to  retu.-e  him,  apparently  con- 
Seiitf.'d,  but  obtained  a  respite  of  three 
years,  and  a  grant  of  ten  triremes  and 
ten  noble  companions,  each,  as  well 
as  herself,  atteiidetl  by  one  thousand 
virgins.  She  pas.sed  the  three  years 
witli  her  virgins  in  nautical  exercLses; 
and  when  the  marriage-day  arrived,  a 
sudden  wind  arose,  and  wafted  then\ 
to  the  mouth  of  the  Khme,  and  thence 
to  Ba.sel.  Here  they  lelt  their  vessels, 
and  made  a  pilgrimage  on  foot  to 
Rome.  On  their  return,  they  encoun- 
tered at  Cologne  an  army  ot  Hiuis.  by 
whom  they  were  massacred,  Ursula 
having  retused  an  otfer  of  marriage 
from  the  prince.  Their  coqises  were 
buried  by  the  people  of  Cologne,  and 
a  church  was  erected  to  their  honor, 
in  which  bones,  said  to  be  those  of 
Ursula  and  her  companions,  are  ex- 
hibited to  this  day. 

je^=-  "  This  extravagant  number  of 
martyred  virgins,  which  is  not  specified 
in  the  earlier  legends,  is  .said  [Maury, 
'  Legendes  Pieuses.-  p.  214]  to  have 
ari.sf-n  from  the  name  of  one  of  the  com- 
panions of  Ursula  being  Undfimflln,  — 
an  explanation  very  plausible,  though  I 
must  confess  that  I  have  not  been  able  to 
find  any  authority  for  the  name  Umlt-ri- 
mella.''''  Max  Midler. 

E1i-a.  A  pseudonym  under  which 
Charles  Lamb  wrote  a  series  of  cel- 
ebrated essays,  which  were  begun  in 
the  "  London  ^Fagazine,"  and  were 
afterward  collected  and  published  by 
themselves. 

ecff=  "  The  establishment  of  the  '  Lon- 
don Magazine.'  under  the  auspices  of  Mr. 
John  Scott,  occasioned  T>amb's  introduc- 
tion to  the  public  bv  the  name  under 
color  of  which  he  acquired  his  most  bril- 
liant reputation.  —  '  Elia."  The  adoption 
of  this  signiitnre  was  purely  accidental. 
His  first  contrib\ition  to  the  magazine 
was  a  description  of  the  old  South  -  Sea 
House,  where   Lamb   had  passed  a  few 


0@~  For  the  •'  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation."  with  the  accompanying  Explanationi, 


ELI 


115 


KME 


months'  noTitiate  as  a  clerk,  thirty  j-ears 
before,  and  of  its  inmates  who  had  long 
passed  away ;  and,  remembering  the 
name  of  a  gay,  lig.it-hearted  foreigner, 
wlio  tluttered  there  at  tuat  time,  he  sub- 
scribed liis  name  to  the  essay."  Tnlfourd. 
Lamb's  second  paper  was  unsigned,  and 
the  printer  repeated  the  signature  which 
had  been  affixed  to  the  first  paper.  This 
led  to  its  being  attached  to  subsequent 
contributions  ;  and  Lamb  used  it  until, 
in  his  •'  Last  Letters  of  Elia,"  he  bade  it 
a  reluctant  farewell. 

lie  is  also  the  true  EUa,  whose  essays  are 
extiint  in  a  little  volume  published  a  year  or 
two  since,  and  rather  better  known  from  that 
name  without  a  meaning  than  from  any  thing 
he  has  done,  or  can  hope  to  do,  in  his  own. 

Churks  Lamb,  Autooiugrupldcal  Sketch,  lUll. 

Comfort  thee,  O  tliou  mourner,  yet  a  while; 

Again  shall  Eliu's  smile 
Refresh  thy  heart,  where  heart  can  ache  no 
more. 

What  is  it  we  deplore  ?  Landor. 

El'i-dure.  A  legendary  king  of  Brit- 
ain, labietl  to  have  been  advanced  to 
the  tlirune  in  place  of  his  brother  Ar- 
tegal,  or  Arthgallo,  who  was  deposed 
by  powerful  nobles  to  Avliom  he  had 
given  great  oftense.  Keturning  to 
the  country  after  a  long  exile,  Artegal 
accidentally  encountered  his  broth- 
er, who  received  him  with  open  arms, 
took  him  home  to  the  palace,  and 
reinstated  him  in  his  old  position, 
abdicating  the  throne  himself,  after 
feigning  a  dangerous  illness,  by  which 
he  succeeded  in  inducing  his  peers 
once  more  to  swear  allegiance  to  his 
brother.  Artegal  reigned  for  ten 
years,  wisely  and  well,  and,  after  his 
death,  was  succeeded  by  Elidure. 
Wordsworth  has  taken  the  story  of 
these  two  brothers  for  the  subject  of 
a  poem.     See  Aktkgal. 

El'i-6t,  George.  A  pseudonym  a- 
dop'ted  by  Mrs.  Mar\'  A.  (Evans) 
Lewes,  a  popular  and  ver\^  able  nov- 
elist of  the  present  dav,  author  of 
"Adam  Bede,"  ''The  Mill  on  the 
Floss,"  and  other  works. 

E-li's5,  or  E-lis'sa.  Another  name 
of  Dich.     See  Dido. 

Elivagar  (A-le-vS'gaf).  [Old  Norse 
elf,  stream,  and  rcu/n,  to  Avander.] 
{'Scnnd.  Myth.)  The  name  of  a  great 
chaotic  river  flowing  from  a  fountain 
in  NiHheim.  [Written  also  Eli va- 
ga  and  Elivagor.] 


Elm  City.  The  same  as  Clfy  of  Elms. 
See  City  ok  Elms. 

Elocution  Walker.  A  name  popu- 
laily  given,  in  his  lifetime,  to  John 
Walker,  the  English  orthoepist  and 
lexicographer  (17ti2-I8{)7),  who  was 
for  a  long  time  a  distinguislicd  teacher 
of  elocution  among  the  higher  classes 
in  London. 

Eloquent  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Fn^ 
CHiidiis.'\  An  honorary  appellation 
given  to  Peter  Aureolas,  Archbishop 
of  Aix  in  the  fourteenth  century. 

El'shen-der  the  Recluse.  The 
''  Black  Dwarf,"  in  Scott's  novel  of 
this  name.  [Called  also  Canny  El- 
s}iie,.'\ 

El'speth.  1.  A  character  in  Sir  Wal- 
ter Scott's  "■Antiquary." 

2.  An  old  servant  to  Dandie  Din- 
mont,  in  Scott's  "  Guy  Mannering." 

E-l^'si-um  (e-lizh'I-um).  [Gr.  'HAv- 
criov.]  (Gr.  «f  Rom.  MytL)  The 
blissful  abode  of  the  virtuous  dead, 
placed  by  Homer  in  the  Avest,  on 
the  border  of  the  Ocean  stream;  by 
Hesiod  and  Pindar  in  the  Fortunate 
Islands,  or  Isles  of  the  Blest,  in  the 
Western  Ocean;  by  Virgil  in  the 
imder-world,  with  an  entrance  from 
a  cave  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Averaus, 
in  Campania.  [Called  also  Elysian 
EiehlsJ] 

Em'br9.  A  common  Scottish  corrup- 
tion of  Edinburyli. 

Emerald  Isle.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  Ireland,  on  account  of  the 
peculiar  bright  green  look  of  the  sur- 
j'ace  of  the  coiuitry.  It  was  lirst 
used  by  Dr.  William  Drennan  (1754- 
1820),  author  of  "  Glendalloch,  and 
other  Poems."  It  occm-s  in  his  poem 
entitled  "Erin." 

"  When  Erin  first  rose  from  the  dark-swelling 

flood, 
God  blessed  the  green  island;  lie  saw  it  was 

good. 
The  Emerald   of  Europe,   it   sparkled,   it 

shone. 
In  the  ring  of  this  world  the  most  precious 

stone, 

"  Arm  of  Erin,  prove  strong;  but  be  gentle  a« 

brave. 
And,  uplifted  to  st-ike.  still  be  ready  to  save; 
Nor  one  feeling  of  vengeance  presume  to 

defile 
The  cause  or  the  men  of  the  Emerald  Isle. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  worda  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


i:m[ 


116 


ENU 


^mile  (i'mel').  The  subject  of  Jean 
Jac(|ues  Housscati's  novel  of  the  same 
name,  and  liis  idral  of  a  perfectly 
educated  vomig  man. 

E-mil'i-a.  1.  The  lady  -  love  of 
ralamon  and  Arcite  in  Chaucer's 
"  Knii;lit's  Tale/'     See  I'ala.mon. 

2.  A  lady  attending  Ilermione,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  ^Vinl^;r's  Tale." 

3.  W  ife  to  lago,  and  waiting-wom- 
an to  Desdeniona,  in  .Siiakesjjeare's 
tragedy  of  "  Otiielio;  "  a  woman  of 
thorough  vulgarity,  loose  principles, 
and  low  cunning,  unhed  to  a  high  de- 
gree of  spirit,  energetic  feeling,  and 
strong  sense. 

4.  riie  sweetheart  of  Peregrine 
Pickle,  in  .Smollett's  novel  entitled 
"  The  Adventures  of  Peregrine 
Pickle." 

Em-ped'o-cles.  [Gr.  'EfXTreSoKAf;?.] 
A  famous  Sicilian  philosopher  who 
flourisiied  aljout  the  year  450  li.  c, 
and  was  the  reputed  possessor  of  mi- 
raculous powers.  There  Avas  a  tradi- 
tion that  he  secretly  threw  himself  into 
the  crater  of  Mount  /Etna. in  order  that 
his  mysterious  disappearance  might 
be  taken  as  a  proof  ot'his  divine  origin. 
Lucian  says  tliat  the  volcano  threw 
out  his  sandals,  and  thus  destro\'ed 
the  popular  belief  in  his  divinity. 

Others  came  sinsrlp;  he  who,  to  be  deemed 
A  god,  leiped  fondly  into  Etna  flames, 
Emijedocles ;  .  .  .  and  many  more  too  long;. 

Milton. 

Emperor  of  Believers.  A  title  of 
Omar  I.  (034),  father-in-law  of  Mo- 
hammed, and  second  caliph  of  the 
Mussulmans.  He  was  one  of  the  most 
zealous  apostles  of  Islamism. 

Elmperor  of  the  "West.  A  sobriquet 
given  to  John  ^lurray  (1778-1843), 
an  eminent  London  publisher,  who 
chansed  his  place  of  business  from 
Fleet  Street,  in  "the  City,"  to  Albe- 
marle Street,  at  the  West  End. 

Empire  City.  The  city  of  New 
York,  the  chief  city  of  the  western 
world,  and  the  metropolis  of  the  Em- 
pire State. 

Empire  State.  A  popular  name  of 
the  State  of  Xew  York,  the  most 
populous  and  the  wealthiest  State  in 
the  Union. 


Lo!  the  Empire  St'ite  is  shaking 
Tlu'  !-liackks  f/oiii  her  liaiid; 

With  tlie  ruj,'j;ed  North  is  wakin;; 
'i'lif  level  huii.set  land!  Whittier. 

En-cel'$-dus.    [Gr.  'Ev/ceAaSo?.]    ( Gr. 

()'•  Rtnii.  Mi/f/i.)    A  son  of  Titan  and 

Terra,  and  the  most  powerful  of  all  the 

giants  who  conspired  against  .Ju])iter, 

and  attem])ted  to  scale  heaven.     He 

was  struck  by  Jupiter's  thunderbolts, 

and  overwhelmed  under  Mount  /Etna 

According  to  the  poets,  the  flames  of 

.Etna  j)roceeded  Irom  the  breath  of 

Enceladus, and,  as  often  as  he  tinned 

his  weary  side,  the  whole  island  of 

Sicily  felt  the  motion,  and  shook  troiu 

its  very  loundations. 

She  liolds  her  adversary  as  if  annihilated; 
such  adversary  being,  all  the  while,  like  sonm 
buried  Enci-ladwn,  who,  to  gain  the  sniuUesl 
freedom,  must  stir  a  whole  Triuacria  ISitilvJ 
with  its  Etnas.  CarlyU:. 

Endor,  "Witch  of.  See  Witch  op 
Endok. 

En-dym'i-on.  [Gr.  ^EvIvixmv.']  ( Or. 
cj-  lima.  Mjitli. )  A  beautiful  sheyilicrd- 
youth  of  Caria,  who  spent  his  life  in 
perpetual  sleep,  for  which  the  old 
legends  assign  various  causes.  Diana 
is  taljled  to  have  come  down  to  him 
nightly,  as  he  lav  in  a  cave  of  Mount 
Latmus,  that  she  might  kiss  him 
unobserved. 

He  stood. 
Fine   as    those    shapely    spirits,    heaven-de- 
scended, 
Hermes,  or  young  Apollo,  or  whom  she. 
The  moon-lit  Dian.  on  the  Latmian  hill, 
When  all  the  woods  and  all  the  winds  were 
still. 
Kissed  with  the  kiss  of  immortality. 

B.  W.  Procter. 

England,  Boast  of.  See  Tom-a-i.in. 

England,  Clothier  of.  See  Jack 
or  Xkwiu'ky. 

England's  Pride  and  "Westmin- 
ster's Glory.  An  honorary  title  or 
sobriquet  given  for  a  long  time  to 
Sir  Francis  Burdett  (1770-1844),  the 
most  popular  iMiglish  politician  of 
his  time,  and  in  particular  the  idol 
of  Westminster,  which  he  re])resented 
in  Parliament  for  nearly  thirty  years. 

English  Ar'is-toph'a-nes.  A  title 
assumed  by  Samuel  Foote  (1722- 
1777).  the  comic  dramatist.  [Called 
also  TItt  }riiilfrn  AristopUanes.] 

English  Bas-tille'.  A  nickname 
given,  about  the  tirst  of  the  present 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the    accompanying  Explanation* 


EXG 


117 


EXG 


century,  to  the  jail  of  Cold-lJath 
Fields,  in  London,  from  the  number 
of  state-prisoners   in  it. 

English  Hob'be-ma.  A  designation 
popularly  given  to  I'atrick  (or  I'eter) 
Kasmyth  \d.  1831),  a  Scottish  land- 
scape-painter whose  style  was  thought 
to  resemble  that  of  the  great  1-  lemish 
master  ^liuderhoiit  Uobbema  (Kill- 
IGSJU),  though  it  really  had  little  in 
common  with  it  exeei)t  minuteness  of 
detail. 

English  Jus-tin'i-an.  A  name  often 
given  to  I'klward  1.,  whose  reign  is 
remarkable  for  the  progress  which 
was  nuide  in  it  toward  the  settlement 
of  the  laws  and  eonstitution  of  Eng- 
land. Sir  Matthew  Hale  remarks, 
that  more  was  done  in  the  tirst  thir- 
teen years  of  this  reign  to  settle  and 
establish  the  distributive  justice  of 
the  kingdom  than  in  all  the  next 
four  centuries.  And  similarly  IJlaek- 
stone  sa\'s,  "  Upon  the  whole,  we  may 
observe  that  the  very  scheme  and 
model  of  the  administration  of  com- 
mon justice  betAveen  party  and  party 
was  entirely  settled  by  this  king." 

English  Ju've-nal.  An  appellation 
given  to  John  Oldham  (165;3-1G8:3), 
a  distinguished  poet,  on  account  of  the 
severity  of  his  satires,  and  his  spirited 
delineation  of  contemporary  lile  and 
manners. 

English Mersenne  (mef'sen').  Jahn 
Collins,  an  English  mathematician 
and  physicist  ( 1 624-1 683 ) :  —  so  called 
from  Marin  ^lersenne,  a  contempo- 
rary French  philosopher  and  matlie- 
matician,  who  was  celebrated  for  the 
wonderful  extent  of  his  erudition. 


In  short.  Mr.  Collins  was  like  the 
regi.'ster  of  all  the  new  acquisitions  made 
in  the  mathematical  sciences  ;  the  maj^a- 
zine  to  which  the  curious  had  frequent 
recourse ;  which  acquired  him  the  appel- 
lation of  the  English  Mersenne." 

Hiitton. 

English  Opium-eater.  Aname  often 
given  to  Thonuis  De  (\)uincey,  one  of 
the  most  remarkable  English  writers 
of  the  present  century,;  celebrated 
for  his  eccentricities,  induced  —  at 
least  in  part  —  by  the  habit  of  eating 
opium,  and  proclaimed  by  himself  to 


the  world  in  a  well-known  volume  of 
"  Confessions.'" 

English  Pale.     See  Tale,  Tiik. 

English  Palladio  (jml-lri'de-o,  102). 
A  surname  given  to  Inigo  .Toms 
(1573-1653),  who  introduced  into 
England  the  Italian  or  '"classic" 
style  of  architecture  as  exemplitied  in 
the  works  of  Andrea  Palladio  (1518- 
1580)  and  his  school.  [Called  also 
The  En<jUsh   V'ltnivlus.^ 

English  Pe'trarch.  A  name  given 
by  Sir  Walter  IJalcigh  to  Sir  Philip 
Sidney  (1554—1586),  who,  like  I'e- 
trarcli  (1304-1374),  Avas  one  of  the 
earliest  cidtivators  and  reliners  of 
his  native  language.  His  writings, 
as  well  as  those  ot  his  Italian  prede- 
cessor, are  characterized  by  a  rare 
delicacy  of  poetical  feeling  and  great 
brilliancy  of  inuigination. 

English  Rabelais  (rab^la').  1.  A 
name  often  given  to  Jonathan  Swiit 
(1667-1745),  whose  Avritings  resem- 
ble in  some  points  those  of  the  great 
French  satirist. 

2.  A  name  sometimes  given  to 
Lawrence  Sterne  (1713-1768),  the 
author  of  "  Tristram  Shandy  "  and 
"The  Sentimental  Journey,"  and  the 
most  airy  and  graceful  of  English 
humorists.  "  The  cast  of  the  whole 
Shandean  history,"  says  Fitzgerald, 
"  its  tone  and  manner  and  thought,  is 
such  as  woidd  come  from  one  satu- 
rated, as  it  were,  Avith  Kabelais,  and 
the  school  that  imitated  Kabelais." 

3.  The  same  name  has  been  giv- 
en to  Thomas  Amoiy  (1691 -178 J), 
author  of  "  The  Life  and  Opinions  of 
John  Buncle,  Esq."  See  Buncle, 
John. 

jBES^"  "  The  soul  of  Francis  Rabelais 
passed  into  John  Amory.  .  .  .  Both  were 
physicians,  and  enemies  of  too  nuuh 
gravitv.  Their  great  business  was  to  en- 
joy life."  Hazlitt.  '•  In  point  of  ani- 
mal spirits,  love  of  good  cheer,  and  some- 
thing of  a  mixture  of  scholarship,  the- 
ology, and  profane  reading,  he  may  he 
held  to  deserve  the  title  ;  but  he  has  no 
claim  to  the  Frenchman's  greatness  of 
genius,  freedom  from  bigotry,  and  pro- 
tbnndness  of  wit  and  humor.  He  might 
have  done  very  well  for  a  clerk  to  Rabe- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ENG 


118 


EPI 


lais  ;  and  his  master  would  have  laughed 
quite  as  much  at,  us  with,  him."' 

L-^ig/i  Hunt. 

English  Ros'ci-us  (ro?h^l-us).  An 
hoiiorarv  name  or  title  given  to 
David  Garrick  (i710-i(  /J),  the  most 
eminent  actor  of  his  day  upon  the 
English  stage. 

Eaglish  Sap'pho  (saf'fo^.  A  title 
given  to  Mrs.  Marv  Uarin-  Robinson 
(1758-181);)),  mistress  of  George  IV. 
.She  acquired  a  brilliant  reputation  for 
beautv  and  wit,  and  was  tlie  author 
of  some  well -esteemed  lyric  poems. 
See  Della  Ckuscans,  Pebpita. 

Euglish  Sen'e-ca.  A  name  given  to 
Joseph  Hall  (1574-1050),  an  English 
bishop  remarkable  for  his  scholar- 
ship, piety,  and  misfortunes.  [Called 
also  lilt  Christiitn  Stiitca.] 

4S^  •'  He  was  commonly  called  our 
Eiigii.;h  Seneca,  for  tlie  pureness.  ]ilain- 
ner-s,  and  fullness  of  his  style."'  Tiuimas 
Fuller.  '•  It  is  much  to  our  present  pur- 
pose to  observe  that  the  style  of  his  prose 
i-i  strongly  tinctured  with  the  manner  of 
Seneca.  The  writer  of  the  Satires  is  per- 
ceptible in  some  of  his  gravest  polemical 
or  scriptural  treitises,  which  are  per- 
petually interspersed  with  excursive  il- 
lustrations, finiiliar  allusions,  and  ob- 
servations in  life."  T.iomas  Warton. 

English  Solomon.  See  Solomon  of 
England. 

English  TSr'ence.  A  title  some- 
times given  to  Richard  Cumberland 
(1732-1811),  an  English  dramatist 
and  miscellaneous  writer. 

The  Terence  of  England,  the  mender  of  hearts. 

Gohlsmith. 

English  Tin'to-ret.  A  name  given 
bv  Charles  L  to  William  Dobson 
(i()10-16-tG),  a  distinguished  Eng- 
lish jwrtrait  and  historical  painter. 
[Called  also  Tlie  h'nr/lish  ViuKfycL] 

E'nid.  A  mythical  lady  menticmed 
in  a  Welsh  triad  as  one  of  the  three 
celebrated  ladies  of  Arthur's  court;  a 
beautiful  picture  of  conjugal  patience 
and  affection.  Her  story  —  which  is 
not  included  in  the  general  cycle  of 
romances — has  lately  been  rescued 
from  obscurity  bv  Tennvson,  in  his 
''  Idylls  of  the  King." 

Enlightened  Doctor.  See  Illumi- 
nated DOCTOU. 


Ent6]6chie  (on't^'Ia'she',  62).  The 
name  given  by  iiabelais  to  an  im- 
aginary kingdom,  which  he  repre- 
sents as  governed  by  t^ueen  (Quintes- 
sence, and  as  visited  by  I'antagruei 
and  his  companions  in  their  search 
to  Hnd  the  oracle  of  the  Holy  Bottle. 
This  country  symbolizes  the  ta.ste 
for  speculative  science,  and  is,  with- 
out doubt,  the  foundation  of  the  isl- 
and of  l>aputa,  in  Swift"s  fictitious 
"  Travels  "  of  l^emuel  Gulliver.  In 
the  Peripatetic  ])hilosophy.  tntekclty 
signitied  an  actuality,  or  an  object 
completely  actualized,  in  contradis- 
tinction to  mere  potential  existence. 

En-telTus.     See  Daues. 

E'os.  [Gr. 'Hc6?.]  {Gr.  }fyth.)  Thp 
goddess  of  the  dawn;  the  same  as 
Aurora.     See  Aukoka. 

Eph'i-al'tes.  [Gr.  '£.^101x777?.]  {Gr. 
()'•  Rom.  AJift/i.)  One  of  the  giants 
who  made  war  upon  the  gods.  He 
Avas  deprived  of  his  left  eye  by  Apollo, 
and  of  the  right  by  Hercules. 

E-pig'o-ni.  [Gr.  'Eniyovoi,  the  after- 
born.]  A  name  given  to  the  sons  of 
the  seven  Grecian  heroes  who  laid 
siege  to  Thebes.  See  Seven  against 
Thebes. 

Ep'i-men'i-des.  [Gr.  'ETriAJievtST)?.]  A 
philosopher  and  poet  of  Crete,  who 
lived  in  the  sixth  or  seventh  century 
B.  c.  His  history  has  reached  us  only 
in  a  mythical  form.  He  is  said  to  have 
fallen  asleep  in  a  cave,  when  a  boy, 
and  to  have  remained  in  that  state 
for  fifty-seven  years,  (^n  waking  and 
going  out  into  the  broad  daylight, 
he  was  greatly  perplexed  and  aston- 
ished to  find  every  thing  around  him 
altered.  But  what  was  more  wonder- 
ful still,  during  his  long  period  of 
slumber,  his  soul,  released  from  its 
fleshlv  prison,  had  been  busily  en- 
gaged in  the  study  of  medicine  and 
natural  ])hilosophy :  and  when  it  again 
became  incarnated.  Epimenides  fmind 
himself  a  man  of  great  knowledge  and 
wisdom,  (ioethe  has  written  a  poem 
on  the  snl)Ject,  "Des  Epimenides  Er- 
wachen."  See  Klaus,  Peter,  an(i 
Winkle,  Rip  Van. 

Like  Epimeniile.o,  I  have  been  sleepin?  in  i 
cave:   and.  waking,  I  see  those  whom  I  left 


B&-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  acccnipanyiug  Explanationa, 


EPI 


119 


ERY 


rtiildren  arc  bearded  men;  and  towns  have 
spruiij;  up  in  the  luiidseaiies  whieli  1  left  aa 
solitary  waslis.  iHir  A'.  JSuld'er  Li/ttoii. 

Elp'i-me'theus.  [Gr.  'ETrijar/eev?.]  ( (/v. 
(Jl-  JcDiJi.  Jlijf/i.)  A  brother  of  I'ronn'- 
theus,  and  the  husband  of  randora. 
See  J^VNDoHA. 

Eraste  (a^rAsf).  Tlie  heroine  in  INIo- 
liere's  comedy  entitled  "  Les  Fa- 
clieux." 

Er'a-to.  [Gr.  'Eparw.]  {G7\  cf  Eom. 
Mijtit.)  One  of  the  nine  Muses.  She 
presided  over  lyric,  tender  and  ama- 
tory poetry. 

Er^a-tos'tra-tus.      See    Herostka- 

TUS. 

Er'e-bus.  [Gr.  'Epe^o?,  darkness.] 
( (Jr.  (J-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Chaos, 
and  a  god  of  hell.  The  name  is  used 
by  tlie  poets  to  denote  the  darlv  and 
gloomy  cavern  under  the  eartli, 
passed  through  by  the  shades  in  go- 
ing to  Hades. 

E-re'tri-an  Bull.  An  appellation  of 
Menedemus  of  Eretria,  in  Eubaa,  a 
Greek  philosopher  of  the  fourth  cen- 
tury B.  c,  and  founder  of  the  Ere- 
trian  school,  which  was  a  branch  of 
the  Socratic.  He  Avas  so  called  on 
account  of  the  gravity  of  his  coun- 
tenance. 

E-ricti'tho.  [Gr.  'Y.pix&^-']  A  famous 
Thessalian  witch  consulted  by  Pom- 
pey. 

Such  a  siihiect  even  the  powerful  Erichthn 
was  compelled  to  select,  as  alone  capable  of 
being  re-animated  even  by  her  potent  mapie. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

E'rin  (9).  An  early  name  of  Ireland, 
now  used  as  a  poetic  appellative.  See 
Emekald  Isle. 

E-rin'nys    (pi.  E-rin'ny-es).     [Gr. 

'EQti'fv?;  pi.  'Epl^'^'ue?,  'Eoii'i'i}?. )     [Gr. 

Myth.)  An  avenging  deity,  one  of 
the  Eumenides,  or  Furies.  See  Fu- 
ries. 
E'ris  (0).  [Gr.  'Epi?.')  [Gr.  Myth.) 
The  goddess  of  discord ;  a  sister  of 
Mars,  and  a  daughter  of  Night;  the 
same  as  the  Koman  Discordia. 

Erl-king.  [Ger.  ErJ-Jconif/.!  Erlenhn- 
n'ni,  derived  by  some  from  the  root 
erle,  alder;  l)y  others  supposed  to  be 
identical  with  Elfen  Kdiiifj,  King  of 
the  Elves,]     A  name  applied  to  a 


personified  natural  power  or  elemen- 
tary spirit,  whicit,  according  to  Ger- 
man poetical  authorities,  prepares 
miscliief  and  ruin  for  nu'ii,  and  espe- 
cially for  chiUbx'U,  thrcHigh  delusive 
seductions.  It  is  fabled  to  aj)|)ear  as 
a  goblin,  haunting  the  lilack  Forest  in 
Tliuringia.  The  existence  of  such 
elementary  spirits,  and  their  connuc- 
tion  with  maukiiul,  have,  in  the  ear- 
liest times,  occujjied  the  imagination 
of  the  most  widely  different  races. 
The  Erl-king  was  introduced  into 
German  poetry  from  the  sagas  of  the 
North,  througli  Herder's  translation 
of  the  Danish  ballad  of  "  Sir  Olaf 
and  the  Erl-king's  Daughter;"  and 
it  has  become  universally  known 
through  Goethe's  ballad  of  the  "Eri- 
konig." 
Erminia  ( ef-me'ne-a).  The  heroine  of 
Tasso's  epic  poem,  "  Jerusalem  De- 
livered," in  love  with  Tancred. 

She  re;"^  of  fair  Erminia't:  flight, 
Whicn  Venice  once  might  hear 

Sung  on  her  glittering  seas  at  night 
By  many  a  gondolier.  Jfrg.  Hemans. 

E'ros  (9).  [Gr. 'Epa>9.]  (Gr.  Myth.) 
The  Greek  name  of  the  deity  called 
Cupido,  or  Cupid,  by  the  Romans. 
See  Cupid. 

Er'ra  Pa'ter.  The  name  of  some  old 
astrologer;  but  who  was  meant  by  it 
has  not  been  determined.  Some  of 
the  old  almanacs  say  an  eminent 
Jewish  astrologer.  William  Lilly 
was  so  called  by  Butler. 

In  mathematics  he  was  greater 
Than  Tycho  Brahe  or  Erra  Pater. 

HufUbras. 

fir'^-ci'na.  [Gr.  'Epv/ciVr?.]  ( Gr.  cf- 
Rnni.  }fyth.)  A  surname  of  Venus, 
derived  from  IMount  Eryx,  in  Sicily, 
where  she  had  a  famous  temple. 

Er'^-man'thi-an  Boar.  See  Her- 
cules. 

Er'y-sich'tlion.  [Gr.  'Epuo-tx^'^i'-J 
(  Gr.  (f  Rom.  Myth. )  A  profane  per- 
son who  cut  down  trees  in  a  grove 
sacred  to  Ceres,  for  which  he  was 
punished  by  the  goddess  with  raging 
and  tmappeasable  hunger. 

E'rvx(9).  [Gr. 'Epi-M  (Gr.  tf  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  king  of  Sicily  wlio  chal- 
lenged Hercules  to  fight  with  the 
gauntlet,  and  lost  both  his  life  and 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xatxiL 


ESC 


120 


ETE 


his  crown,  which  he  staked  on  the 
issue  ot  the  contest. 
Es'ca-lus.  1.  An  ancient  and  kind- 
lieartcd  lord,  in  Sliakespeare's  "  Meas- 
ure I'ur  Measure,"  wiioni  Vincentio, 
the  Duke  ot"  Vienna,  joins  with  An- 
gclo,  but  in  an  interior  rank,  as  his 
deputy  durin{^  a  pretended  absence 
on  a  distant  journey. 

We  do  not  blame  him  [Leigh  Hunt]  for  not 
brin;;in^  to  tlie  judfjuifut-suat  tlie  merciless 
ri{;orut  I.ord  AiiKt'lo,  but  we  really  think  that 
such  flajjitiuu.-^  and  impudent  ottenders  as 
those  now  at  the  bar,  deserved,  at  the  least, 
the  gentle  rebuke  of  J-Jucalu-i.  Mucuuhty. 

2.  Prince  of  Verona,  in  Sliake- 
speare's "  Romeo  and  Juliet." 

Es'cS-nes.  A  lord  of  Tyre,  in  Shake- 
speare's ''  Pericles." 

Es'm6nd,  Henry.  The  title  of  a 
novel  by  Thackeray,  and  the  name 
of  its  hero,  a  ciiivalrous  cavalier  and 
Jacobite  of  the  time  of  Queen  Anne. 

Esplandian  (es-plan-de-an').  In  the 
old  romances  of  chivalry,  the  son  of 
Amadis  and  Oriana.  JNlontalvo  has 
made  him  the  subject  of  an  original 
work,  which  is  a  continuation  of  his 
translation  of  the  "  Amadis,"  and 
which,  in  the  preface,  he  announces 
to  be  the  fifth  book  of  the  same. 

Espriella  (es-pre-ePya).  The  name 
of  an  imaginary  Spaniard,  whose 
"  Letrers  "  from  England,  about  the 
year  1810,  were  written  by  Southey. 

Es-tella.  The  heroine  of  Dickens's 
novel  of  '•  Great  Expectations." 

Esterraere,  King.  See  King  Ester- 
mi:  i;e. 

Est-il-possible  fS'tel'  pos'se'bl.  61). 
[Fr.,  Is  it  possible?]  A  name  given 
by  King  James  II.  of  England  to 
F'rince  George  of  Denmark,  the  hus- 
band of  James's  daughter,  the  Prin- 
cess Anne,  afterwards  Queen  Anne. 
These  Avords  had  been  a  common 
phrase  with  the  prince  at  the  time  of 
the  Revolution  of  1688,  as  reports  of 
one  desertion  of  the  king  alter  an- 
other came  to  his  ears.  "When  he 
also  went  over  to  William  and  Mary, 
■  James  is  rejiorted  to  have  said, 
"  What !   Es(-!/-/)(K^si/j!<^  gone  too  ?  " 

Es-tot'i-l§,nd,  or  Es-tot'i-land'i-a. 
According  to  the  "  Geographical  Dic- 


tionary'" of  Edmund  Bohun  (1G95), 
"  a  great  tract  of  land  in  the  north 
of  America,  toward  the  arctic  circle 
and  Hudson's  Bay,  having  New- 
Prance  on  the  south,  and  James's 
Bay  on  the  west,  the  first  of  Ameri- 
can shores  discovered,  l)eing  found 
by  some  Friesland  tisliers.  that  were 
driven  hither  In-  a  temj)est.  almost 
two  hundred  years  beiore  Columbus." 
Alcedo  says  of  it,  "  An  imaginary' 
country  wliich  some  authors  suppose 
to  have  been  discovered  in  1-477  by  a 
native  of  Poland  named  .John  Scalve, 
and  that  the  same  was  part  of  the 
land  of  Labrador.  The  fact  is,  that 
this  country  never  had  any  existence 
but  in  the  iniagiuations  of  the  two 
brothers  of  the  name  of  Zeno,  A'ene- 
tian  noblemen,  who  had  no  ])articu- 
lar  informati(m  whatever  respecting 
the  expedition  of  this  Polish  adven- 
turer: and  that,  in  1497,  John  Cabot, 
or  Gabot,  lett  England  with  three 
of  his  sons,  under  the  commission 
of  Henry  YII.,  when  he  discovered 
Xewfoundlaud  and  part  of  the  imme- 
diate continent  where  this  country  is 
supposed  to  exist." 

Else  .  .  .  the  low  sun  .  .  . 
Had  rounded  still  the  horizon,  and  not  known 
Or  east  or  west:  which  had  forbid  the  snow 
From  cold  Estotilaiu/,  and  south  as  far 
Beneath  Magellan.  Milton. 

The  learned  Grotius  marches  his  Nor- 
wegians by  a  pleasant  route  across  froz'.n 
rivers  and  "arms  of  the  sea,  throuirh  Iceland, 
Greenland,  Estotiland,  and  Norunibe^a. 

IF .  Irving. 

E-te'o-cles.  [Gr. 'EreoKAii?.]  {(Jr.  (^ 
Roiii.  MijOt.)  A  son  of  CEdipus.  king 
of  Thebes.  He  and  his  brother 
Polynices  agreed  to  reign  alternately, 
each  holding  the  power  a  year  at  a 
time.  Eteocles  did  not  adhere  to  his 
engagement,  and  hence  arose  the 
Theban  war.  The  brothers  at  last 
agreed  to  tinish  the  war  by  a  duel: 
in  this  they  both  fell. 

Like  flited  Tv^f  or/es-Polynices  Brothers,  em- 
bracing, though  in  vain";  weening  that  they 
must  not  love,  that  they  must  nate  only,  and 
die  by  each  other's  hands!  Carlyle. 

Eternal  City.  A  popular  and  very 
ancient  designation  of  Rome,  which 
was  fabled  to  have  been  built  under 
the  favor  and  immediate  direction 
of  the  gods.  The  expression,  or 
its  equivalent,  frequently  occurs   in 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


ETT 


121 


EUR 


classic  authors,  as  Livy,  Til>ullus, 
Quiutiliaii,  &c.  In  the  "yEneid,"  Vir- 
gil, following"  the  received  tradition, 
represents  Jupiter  as  holding  the  fol- 
lowing languag'e  to  Venus,  in  refer- 
ence to  the  Konians,  who  were  su])- 
posed  to  he  the  descendants  of  her 
son  .Eneas:  — 

"  His  t-ffo  HOC  metas  reriim,  iiectenipora  poim: 
liiiperiuni  sine  tine  dedi."      JJk.  I.,  v.  (8,  711. 

"To  them  no  bounds  of  empire  I  assign. 
Nor  term  of  years  to  their  immortal  line." 
Unjden's  TraiiK. 

tittrick  Shepherd.  A  name  com- 
monly given  to  .James  Hogg  (1772- 
18:55),  the  Scottish  poet,  who  was 
oorn  in  the  forest  of  Ettrick,  in  .Sel- 
kirkshire, and  in  early  life  followed 
the  occupation  of  a  shepherd. 

"When  first,  descendinj;  from  the  moorlands, 
I  saw  the  stream  of  I'arrow  glide 

Alonjf  a  l)are  and  ope7\  valley, 
Tlie  Ettrick  S/icpherd  was'my  gnide. 

HonlsivortJi. 

fGu'cli-o.  A  character  in  Plautus's 
comedy  of  "Aulularia,"  celehrated 
for  his  penuriousness. 

Now  you  must  explain  all  this  to  me,  unless 
you  wi'>nld  liave  me  use  you  as  ill  as  EkcIi'o 
does  Staphyla,  in  the  "Aulularia." 

Sir  W.  Srott. 

.Eu-ge'iii-us.  An  amiable  monitor 
and  counselor  of  Yorick,  in  Sterne's 
"  Life  and  Opinions  of  Tristram 
Shandy."  He  is  said  to  have  been 
intended  as  a  portrait  of  the  author's 
friend,  John  Hall  Stevenson. 

Eulenspiegel  (oi-len-spe'gel,  43,  58). 

See  OWLE-GLASS. 

Eu-rase'us.  [Gr.  Eu/aaio?.]  ( Gr.  (.f 
Rom.  Myth. )  A  swine-herd  and  slave 
of  Ulysses,  famed  for  his  tidelity  to 
his  master. 

Tliis  second  Eumceus  strode  hastily  down 
the  forest-glade,  driving  before  him,  with  the 
assistance  of  Fangs,  the  whole  herd  of  his  in- 
liainionious  charge.  Sir  W.Scott. 

Eu-men'i-des.  [Gr.  Eujaei-tSe?,  L  e., 
the  gracious  or  benign  goddesses.] 
{Gr.  Jfijth.)  A  euphemistic  name 
given  by  the  Greeks  to  the  Eurics, 
whose  true  name  of  Ayinnj/es  they 
were  afraid  to  utter.     See  Fukies. 

They  lie  always,  those  subterranean  En- 
meni'les,  —  fabulous,  and  yet  so  true,  —  in  the 
dullest  existence  of  man  ;  and  can  dance, 
brandishing  their  dusky  torches,  shaking 
their  serpent  hair.  Curlijlc. 

Eu-mol'pus.     [Gr.  Eu/xoAtto?.]      ( Gr. 


(f  Rom.  j]fijfh.)  A  son  of  Neptune 
and  Chione,  celebrated  as  a  singer  or 
bard,  and  as  the  foiuuler  of  the  Eleu- 
siuiau  mysteries. 

Eu-phor'bus.  [Gr.  Eu</>op^o«.]  ( Gr. 
(j'-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  Trojan,  son  of 
I'anthous,  slain  by  jMenelaus  in  the 
Trojan  war. 

Eu-phros'y-iie-  [tlr.  EiJ<|)po(rv»'Tj, 
cheerfidness,  mirth.  J  ( Gr.  tf  Rom. 
Myth.)     One  of  the  three  Graces. 

Come,  thou  goddess  fair  and  free, 
In  heaven  y-clept  En/i/iroxifiie, 
And  by  men,  heart-easing  Mirth. 

MiJtcm. 

Eu'phu-es.  [Gr.  Eu(/)u>??,  of  good  lig- 
lU'e,  comely,  clever.]  The  principal 
character  in  Lyiy's  two  famous  works 
entitled  "  Euphues,  or  The  Anatomy 
of  AVit,"  and  "  Euphues  and  his 
England."  These  works  are  re- 
markable for  their  pedantic  and  fan- 
tastical style,  and  tor  the  monstrous 
and  overstrained  conceits  with  which 
they  abound.  Euphues  is  represent- 
ed as  an  Athenian  gentleman,  distin- 
giushed  for  the  elegance  of  his  per- 
son and  the  beauty  of  his  wit,  and 
for  liis  amorous  temperament  and 
roving  disposition. 

Eu-ro'pa.  [Gr.  EupuiTrr;.]  ( Gr.  </■  Rom. 
Jfyth.)  A  beautiful  daughter  of 
Phoenix,  or  of  Agenor,  carried  otY  by 
Jupiter,  under  the  form  of  a  white 
bull,  from  Phccnicia  to  Crete.  By 
him  she  became  the  mother  of  Minos 
and  Sarpedou. 

Europe,  The  Nightmare  of.  See 
Nic;ht3iare  of  Eukope. 

Eu-ry'a-le.  [Gr.  EvpuaAr;.]  {Gr.  (f 
Rom.  Myth.)  1.  One  of  the  three 
Crorgons.      See  Gokgons. 

2.  A  queen  of  the  Amazons. 

3.  A  daughter  of  Minos,  and  the 
mother  of  Orion. 

Eu-ry'ai-lus.  [Gr.  EupvaAo?.]  A  Tro- 
jan youth,  immortalized  by  Virgil  as 
the   faithful   friend   of   Nisus.      See 

Nisus. 

Wc  have  been  Nisus  and  Ettn/nhis,  Theseus 
and  Pirithous,  Orestes  and  Pylades,  and  —  to 
sum  up  the  whole  with  a  ])uritanic  toucli  — 
David  and  Jonathan,  all  in  one  breath. 

Sir  IF.  Scott. 

Eu-ryd'i-ce.  [Gr.  EvpvBiKrt.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  Myth.)     The  wife  of  Orpheus, 


»nd  for  the  llemarks  and  Rules  to  which  tlie  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


EUR 


122 


EXC 


killed  by  a  serpent   on   her  bridal 
day.     See  Okphkus. 

Orpheus'  self  may  heave  liis  head 

I'loin  j^olden  «lunil)er<)H  a  berl 

Of  hfupeil  Klysiaii  flowers,  uiid  hear 

Sucli  strains  as  would  liave  wou  the  ear 

Of  Pluto,  to  have  quite  set  free 

His  half-reguiiiud  Karydwe.  Milton. 

Eu-ryl'o-chus.  [Gr.  Ei-piiAoxo?.]  ( (ir. 
(j-  lioia.  Jlyt//.)  One  of  the  eoinpan- 
ion.s  of  Ulysses  in  his  wanderings, 
and  the  only  one  of  them  -who  was 
not  chanyed  by  Circe  into  a  hog. 

Eu-ryn'o-me.  [Gr.  Evpwoixr].]  ( G7\ 
if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Oce- 
an us  and  Tetliys,  and  mother  of  the 
Graces. 

Eu-rys'theus,  [Gr.  Evpuo-^ev'?.]  ( Gr. 
tjr  Ihnn.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Sthenelus, 
and  grandson  of  Perseus,  king  of 
Myceme.  At  Juno's  instigation,  he 
imposed  upon  his  cousin  Hercules 
twelve  ditticult  labors,  which  he  had 
a  right  to  do  on  account  of  his  prior- 
ity of  birth.     See  Hekcules. 

Eu-ter'pe.  [Gr.  Eutcpttt}.]  [Or.  (f 
Rom.  Myth.)  The  Muse  of  music; 
represented  in  ancient  works  of  art 
with  a  flute  in  her  hand.  See  Muses. 

E-vad'ne.  [Gr.  EudS^r,.]  1.  {Gr.  (f 
Riiin.  Myth.)  Wife  of  Capaneus,  and 
mother  of  Sthenelus.  Her  husband 
having  been  killed  at  the  siege  of 
Thebes,  she  threw  herself  upon  the 
funeral  pile,  and  was  consumed  with 
him. 

2.  A  female  character  in  Beau- 
mont and  Fletcher's  play,  "  The 
Maid's   Tragedy." 

E-van'der.  [Gr.  EuavSpo?.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  ^fyth  )  A  son  of  Mercury  by 
an  Arcadian  nymph.  He  is  fabled 
to  have  led  a  Pelasgian  colony  from 
Arcadia  into  Italy,  about  sixty  years 
before  the  Trojan  war.  ^-Eneas, 
wlien  he  arrived  in  Italy,  found  him 
still  alive,  and  formed  an  alliance 
with  him  against  the  Latins. 

Evangelical  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Kvaiujidlras.']    See  Gospel  Doctou. 

E-van'Ke-line.  The  heroine  of  Long- 
fellow's poem  of  the  same  name, 
founded  upon  the  historical  incident 
of  the  expulsion   of  the   inhabitants 


of  Acadia  from  their  homes  in  the 
year  1755.     See  Acadia. 

£v'an§,  Sir  Hugh.  A  pedantic 
Welsh  parson  and  schoolmaster,  in 
Shakesijeare's  ''  I\Ierry  Wives  of 
Windsor,"  of  childish  simplicity  and 
ignorance. 

'I'ho  reader  may  well  cry  out,  with  honest 
Sir  Jlitijh  Evans,  "  I  like  not  when  a  Vxnnan 
has  a  j;ieat  peard:  1  spy  a  great  peard  under 
her  niultier."  Macauluy. 

Ev'e-li'na.  The  title  of  a  novel  by 
Miss  liurney  (Madame  D'Arblay), 
and  the  name  of  its  heroine,  after- 
ward Lady  Orville. 

Ever  -  memorable  John  Hales, 
The.      See    Hales,    The    Evek- 

MEMUKAIiLE    JoH>'. 

Evil  May-day.  {Em/.  Hist.)  A  name 
given  to  the  1st  of  May,  1517,  on  ac- 
count of  the  dreadful  excesses  com- 
mitted on  that  day  by  the  apprentices 
and  populace  against  foreigners,  par- 
ticularly the  French. 

Evil  One,  The.  A  name  often  ap- 
plied to  the  Devil.    See  Devil,  The. 

Ex-cal'i-bar.  The  name  of  Arthur's 
famous  sword,  Avhich  he  pulled  out 
of  a  miraculous  stone,  in  which  it 
was  inserted  as  in  a  sheath,  though 
previously  two  hundred  and  one  of 
the  most  puissant  barons  in  the  realm 
had  singly  been  unable  to  withdraw 
it.  An  inscription  on  the  stone 
around  the  sword  stated  that  who- 
ever should  be  able  to  draw  it  out 
was  rightful  heir  to  the  throne  of 
Britain;  and  Arthur,  in  consequence 
of  his  remarkable  success,  was  iin- 
mediat^ely  chosen  and  proclaimed 
king  by  general  acclamation.  When 
about  to  die,  he  sent  an  attendant  to 
throw  the  w-eapon  into  a  lake  hard 
by.  Twice  eluding  the  I'equest,  the 
knitcht  at  last  complied.  A  hand 
and  arm  arose  from  the  water,  and 
caught  the  sword  by  the  hilt,  flour- 
ished it  thrice,  and  then  sank  into 
the  lake,  and  was  seen  no  more. 
Tennyson  has  admirably  versified 
this  incident  in  his  poem  entitled 
"  Morte  d'Arthur."  [Written  also 
E  X  c-  a  1  i  b  o  r,  F^  x  c  a  1  i  I)  u  r,  F>  s- 
c  a  1  i  b  a  r,  E  s  c  a  1  i  b  o  r,  and  C  a  1  i- 
burn.] 


BS~  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationi^ 


EXC 


123 


EYR 


"  According  to  the  Engliish  motri- 
cal  romance  of  'Merlin,'  this  celebrated 
Bword  bore  the  following  inscriptiou:  — 

'Ich  am  v-hote  P^calibore; 
Unto  a  king  a  fair  trebure.' 

And  it  is  added,  in  explanation,  — 

*On  Inglis  is  this  writing, 
"  Kerve  steel  and  yren  and  al  thing." ' 

When  Arthur  fir.<t  used  this  sword  in 
battle,  'it  east  forth  a  great  light  full 
spleudant,  with  such  forcj  that  all  those 
who  beheld  it  thought  that  they  were 
burning  torches  which  issued  from  the 
sword ;  but  they  were  the  golden  letters 
on  the  sword  which  shone  so  mightily.'  " 

"  No,  surely,"  replied  the  king;  "no  bword 
on  earth,  were  it  the  UxcaluKir  of  King  Ar- 
thur, can  cut  that  which  opposes  no  steady 
resistance  to  the  blow.  iSir  W.  Scott. 

Excelsior  State.  The  State  of  New 
York,  sometimes  so  called  from  the 
motto  "  Excelsior  "  upon  its  coat  of 
arms. 

Expounder  of  the  Constitution. 
A  title  popularly  given  to  Daniel 
Webster  (1782-1852),  on  account  of 
his  elaborate  expositions  of  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States. 

Expunging  Kesolution.  {Amer. 
Hist.)  A  resolution  introduced  in 
the  senate  of  the  United  States,  on 
the  2(3th  of  December,  1836,  by  the 
Hon.  Thomas  H.  Benton,  of  Mis- 
souri, b}^  which  a  resolution  adopted 
bv  the  senate  on  the  28th  of  March, 
1834.  charging  "  that  the  president 
[Jackson],  in  the  late  executive  pro- 


ceedings in  relation  to  the  public 
revenue,  [IiadJ  assiuned  authority 
and  power  not  conferred  by  the  Con- 
stitution and  laws,  but  in  derogation 
of  both,"  was  ordered  to  be  expimged 
from  the  journal  of  the  senate  by 
drawing  black  lines  round  the  re- 
solve, and  writing  across  the  face  of 
it,  in  strong  letters,  the  following 
words:  "  Expunged,  by  order  of  the 

senate,    this day  of ,  A.  d. 

1837."  Mr.  Benton's  resolution  was 
adopted  on  the  IGth  of  :March,  1837. 

Exterminator,  The.  [Fr.  DExter- 
minateur^  Sp.  El  Exterminador.']  A 
name  given  by  the  Spaniards  to 
Montbars  (b.  '1645),  a  notorious 
French  adventurer,  who  signalized 
himself  by  his  intense  hatred  of  that 
people,  and  by  the  atrocities  he  com- 
mitted in  the  Antilles  and  other 
Spanish  colonies. 

Eyes  of  Greece,  The  Two.  See 
Two  Eyks  of  Greece,  The. 

feyre,  Jane  (er,  3).  The  heroine  of 
Miss  Charlotte  Bronte's  novel  of  the 
same  name,  a  governess,  coping 
bravely  with  adverse  circumstances, 
and  finally  proving  her  genuine  tbrce 
of  character  by  winning  the  respect 
and  love  of  a  man  in  whom,  though 
he  had  exhausted  the  world,  and 
been  exhausted  b}'  it,  the  instincts 
and  promptings  of  a  noble  nature 
were  not  dead,  but  only  suppressed. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv.-xxx  i. 


FAC 


124 


FAI 


F. 


Fac-to'tum.,  Jo-han'nes.  One  who 
is  good  at  a)iy  tliiiii,%  -who  can  turn 
his  liand  to  any  liind  of  work;  — 
the  Latin  equivalent  of  Jack-at-all- 
tradts. 

There  is  an  upstart  crow  [Shakespeare], 
beautiful  with  our  featliers,  tliat,  with  his 
tiger's  heart  wrapped  in  a  player's  hide,  sup- 
poses he  is  as  well  able  to  bombast  out  a  blank 
verse  as  the  best  of  you,  and,  being  an  absolute 
Johannes  Factotum,  is,  in  his  own  conceit,  the 
only  Shake-scene  in  a  country. 

Greene's  GroaUworth  of  Wit,  1592. 

Fad'la-deen'.  The  grand  chamber- 
lain of  the  harem  in  Moore's  "  Lalla 
Eookh,"— magniticent,  infallible,  sen- 
tentious, and  shrewd. 

Fag.  A  subordinate  character,  in 
Sheridan's  comedy  of  "  The  Rivals." 
He  is  a  lying  servant  to  Captaia 
Absolute,  and  "  wears  his  master's 
wit  as  he  does  his  lace,  at  second- 
hand." 

I  am  quite  conscious  of  my  own  immuni- 
ties as  a  tale-teller.  But  eventhe  mendacious 
J/r.  Fag  .  .  .  assures  us,  that,  though  he 
never  scruples  to  tell  a  lie  at  his  master's  com- 
mand, yet  it  hurts  his  conscience  to  be  found 
out.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Fa'gin.  An  old  Jew  in  Dickens's 
"■  Oliver  Twist,"  who  employs  young 
persons  of  both  sexes  to  carry  on  a 
systematic  trade  of  robbery. 

Fainall,  Mr.  an'I  Mrs.  Noted  char- 
acters in  Congreve's  comedy,  "  The 
Way  of  the  World." 

Faineant,  Le  !N"oir  (lu  nwof  fa'nil'- 
6»',  62).  ^  [Fr.,  the  Black  Sluggard.] 
In  Sir  "Walter  Scott's  ''  Ivanhoe,"  a 
name  applied  to  the  disguised  Richard 
Coeur  de  Lion  by  the  spectators  of  a 
tournament,  on  account  of  his  indif- 
ference during  a  great  part  of  the  ac- 
tion, in  which,  however,  he  was  finally 
victorious. 

Faineants,  Les  Rois  (la  rwo  fS'nS'- 
6"',  G-2).  [Fr.,  the  Do-nothing 
Kings.]  A  sarcastic  designation  ap- 
plied to  monarchs  Avho  delegate  their 
authority  to  their  ministers,  or  from 
whom,  by  reason  of  incapacity  and 
weakness,  tlie  power  has  been  wrest- 
ed,  while    they  are    still    permitted 


nominally  to  reign.  The  usual  ap- 
plication of  the  term  is  to  the  later 
jSIcrovingian  sovereigns  of  France, 
imder  Aviiose  name  the  "  Mayors  of 
the  Palace"  really  governed  the 
countrv.  The  epithet  Faineant  was 
also  given  in  contempt  to  Louis  V., 
the  last  of  the  Carlovingian  dynasty. 

Fair  City.  A  name  po])ularly  given 
in  Scotland  to  the  to^vn  of  Perth, 
which  is  remarkable  for  the  beauty 
of  its  situation,  and  for  its  elegant 
appearance. 

Fair  GSr'al-dine.  A  supposed  mis- 
tress of  the  Earl  of  Surrey  (Henry 
Howard,  1510-15-47),  whose  praises 
he  celebrates  in  a  famous  sonnet,  and 
in  other  poems,  and  who  has  been 
the  occasion  of  much  controversy 
among  his  biographers  and  critics. 
There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that  the 
lady  called  Geraldine  in  the  sonnet 
was  an  Irish  lady  named  Elizabeth 
Fitzgerald,  the  daughter  of  Gerald 
Fitzgerald,  ninth  ICarl  of  Kildare, 
and  afterward  the  wife  of  the  Earl  of 
Lincoln. 

Fair  Im'o-gine'.  The  heroine  of  a 
popular  ballad  by  ^latthcAv  Gregory 
LcAvis,  entitled  •"  Alonzo  the  Brave 
and  the  Fair  Imogine." 

Fair  Mag'ue-lone^  The  heroine  of 
an  old  chivalric  romance,  entitled 
"  The  History  of  the  Fair  ^lagalona, 
daughter  of  the  King  of  Xaples,  and 
Peter,  son  of  the  Coimt  of  Provence." 
This  romance  Avas  originally  Avritten 
in  French,  but  Avas  translated  into 
Spanish  before  the  middle  of  the  six- 
teenth century.  CerA^antes  alludes  to 
Magalona,  or  Maguelone,  in  '*  F'on 
Quixote."  In  Germany,  her  history 
has  been  reproduced  by  Tieck. 

Fair  Maid  of  An'joii.  A  name  giA-en 
to  the  Lady  Edith  Plantagenet,  a 
kinsAvoman  of  Richard  Cceur  de  Lion, 
and  an  attendant  of  his  queen.  Beren- 
garia.  She  married  David,  Earl  of 
Huntingdon,  prince  royal  of  Scot- 
land. 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying   Explanationi 


FAI 


125 


FAL 


Fair  Maid  of  Gal'lo-wS,y.  A  name 
]M)|,'Ulailv  ^iven  to  Margaret,  the  only 
dauj:;l)ter  of  Arcliibald  V.,  Earl  of 
l)ouglas.  She  Ix'eanie  the  wife  of 
her  eoushi,  William,  to'  whom  the 
earldom  had  passed  in  the  year  1448; 
and,  alter  his  death,  in  reliietant  obe- 
dience to  the  royal  conmiantl,  married 
his  brother  and  successor,  James,  the 
last  Earl  of  Douglas. 

Fair  Maid  of  Kent.  A  name  given 
to  ,7oan,  oidy  daughter  of  Edmond 
Plantagenet,  Earl  of  Kent,  on  account 
of  her  great  beauty.  She  was  mar- 
ried three  times:  tirst,  to  William  de 
Montacute,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  from 
whom  she  was  divorced ;  secondly, 
to  Sir  Thomas  Holland;  thirdly,  after 
his  death,  to  her  second  cousin,  Ed- 
ward, the  Black  Prince,  under  a  dis- 
pensation from  the  pope,  rendered 
necessary  by  reason  of  their  consan- 
guinity. Ijy  the  prince  she  was 
mother  of  Richard  IL,  in  whose  reign 
she  died. 

Fair  Maid  of  Norway.     See  Maid 

OF  XoKW'AY. 

Fair  Maid  of  Perth  (4).  The  title 
of  a  novel  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  and 
a  sobriquet  given  to  the  heroine, 
Catherine,  or  Katie,  Glover,  "who 
was  luiiversally  acknowledged  to  be 
the  most  beautiful  young  woman  of 
the  city  or  its  vicinity." 

Fair  Ros'a-inond.  The  name  pop- 
ularly given  to  a  daughter  of  Lord 
Cliftbrd,  famous  in  the  legendary  his- 
tory of  England  as  the  mistress  of 
Henry  II.  shortly  before  his  acces- 
sion to  the  throne,  and  the  subject  of 
an  old  ballad.  The  facts  of  her  his- 
tory are  not  well  ascertained ;  but  she 
is  said  to  have  been  kept  by  her  royal 
lover  in  a  secret  bower  at  Woodstock, 
the  approaches  to  which  formed  a 
labyrinth  so  intricate  that  it  could 
only  be  discovered  by  the  clew  of  a 
silken  thread,  wdiich  the  king  used 
for  that  purpose.  Here  Queen  El- 
eanor discovered  and  poisoned  her, 
about  1173. 

Fairservice,  Andrew.  A  shrewd 
and  humorous  Scotch  gardener  at 
Osbaldistone  Hall,  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  "  Rob  Roy." 


Fair-Star,  Princess.  See  Princess 
Eaih-Stau. 

Faith,  Defender  of  the.     See  De- 

I'KNDKK  OK  TllK  EaITII. 

Faithful.  One  of  the  allegorical  per- 
sonages in  Bunyan's  "  Pilgrim's 
Progress,"  who  dies  a  martyr  before 
completing  his  journey. 

Faithful,  Jacob.  The  hero  of  a  pop- 
idar  novel,  by  IMarryatt,  having  this 
name  for  its  title. 

Falkland  (fawk'land).  1.  A  charac- 
ter in  Sheridan's  comedy  of  "  The 
Rivals,"  noted  for  his  wayward,  cap- 
tious jealousy. 

2.  The  true  hero  of  William  God- 
win's novel  of  "Caleb  Williams," 
and  an  impersonation  of  honor,  intel- 
lect, benevolence,  and  a  passionate 
love  of  fame ;  but  a  man  driven  in  a 
moment  of  ungovernable  passion,  and 
imder  the  provocation  of  the  most 
cruel,  persevering,  and  tyrannical 
insult,  to  commit  a  miu'der.  His 
fanatical  love  of  reputation  urges  him 
to  conceal  the  crime;  and,  in  order 
to  do  this  more  effectually,  he  allows 
an  innocent  man  to  be  executed,  and 
his  family  ruined.  Williams,  an  in- 
telligent peasant-lad  taken  into  the 
service  of  Falkland,  obtains,  by  an 
accident,  a  clew  to  the  guilt  of  his 
master;  when  the  latter,  extorting 
from  him  an  oath  that  he  will  keep 
his  secret,  communicates  to  his  de- 
pendent the  whole  storv  of  his  double 
crime,  his  remorse,  and  misery.  The 
youth,  finding  his  life  insupportable 
from  the  p  rpetual  suspicio]i  to  which 
he  is  exposed,  and  the  restless  sur- 
veillance of  his  master,  escapes,  and 
is  pursued  through  the  greater  part 
of  the  tale  by  the  unrelenting  perse- 
cution of  Falkland,  who  is  led,  by 
his  frantic  and  unnatural  devotion  to 
fame,  to  annihilate,  in  Williams,  the 
evidence  of  his  accumulated  guilt. 
At  last  Williams  is  formally  accused 
by  Falkland  of  robbery,  and  natural- 
ly discloses  before  the  tribunal  the 
dreadful  secret  Avhich  had  caused  his 
long  persecution,  and  Falkland  dies 
of  shame  and  a  broken  heart. 

Fall  City.     Louisville,   Kentucky; — . 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


FAL 


126 


FAT 


popularly  po  called  from  (he  falls 
whicli,  fit  this  place,  iniptde  the  navi- 
t^ation  ol"  tlie  Ohio  River. 

Pal'staff,  Sir  John  (2).  A  famous 
character  in  Shakespeare's  comedy 
of  the  "  ]Merry  NVives  of  Windsor," 
and  in  the  First  and  Second  Parts 
of  his  historical  drama  of  "  Henry 
IV.;"  tlie  most  perfect  comic  por- 
trait that  was  ever  drawn  by  the 
pen  of  genius.  In  the  Ibrmer  play, 
he  is  represented  as  in  love  with  3lrs. 
Ford  and  Mrs.  Page,  wlio  make  a 
butt  and  a  dupe  of  him  :  in  the  latter, 
he  hgures  as  a  soldier  and  a  wit:  in 
both  he  is  exhibited  as  a  monster  of 
fat,  sensual,  mendacious,  boastful, 
and  cowardly.      See  Bkook,  Mas- 

TEK. 

4£g='  Tn  this  character,  Shakespeare  is 
thought  to  have  ridiculed  Sir  John  Faa- 
tolfe,  an  English  geueral  of  the  time  of 
Henry  VI.,  wiio  had  partof  the  command 
before  Orleans,  in  France,  and,  at  the 
village  of  P.ita\ .  set  the  example  of  an 
inglorious  flight  before  Joan  of  Arc,  caus- 
ing great  destruction  of  liis  men.  for  which 
cowjirdice  he  was  degraded  from  his  rank 
as  a  Knight  of  the  Garter.  The  opinion 
that  Shakespeare  intended  to  caricature 
this  personage  has  been  very  generally  re- 
ceived. Fuller,  the  church  Kistorian, 
pays.  "  Nor  i-iour  comedian  excusable  by 
pome  alteration  of  his  name,  writing  him 
Sir  .Tohn  Fnlatnfp,  and  making  him  the 
property  and  pleasure  of  King  Henry  V. 
to  abuse,  seeing  the  vicinity  of  sounds 
[doth]  intrench  on  the  memory  of  that 
worthy  knight."  Shakespeare  introduces 
the  historical  Fastolfe  in  "The  First 
Part  of  Henry  VI.,"  and  repre.^ents  his 
conduct  at  Patay,  and  his  subsequent 
degradation,  with  historical  accuracy. 
But  recent  commentators  deny  that  he 
was  the  original  of  the  ''  VHliant  Jack 
Falstaff"  of  Shakespeare's  other  plays, 
and  treat  the  supposition  as  a  gross  ab- 
surdity. Tn  the  first  draught  of  "  King 
Henry  IV.."  Sir  John  Falstaff  was  called 
Sir  John  Ohlraxtlf .  a  name  borne  by  a 
distinguished  Wycliffite  who  was  born 
undf^r  Edward  itl  .  and  put  to  death  in 
the  fourth  year  of  Ilenrv  V.  The  change 
in  the  surname  is  attributed  to  remon- 
Ptranc»>s  on  the  part  of  Oldcastle's  de- 
scendants. That  Shakespeare  was  desirous 
to  do  awav  with  any  impression  that  Fal- 
staff and  Oldcastle  were  one  and  the  same 
per.sonage  under  different  names,  appears 
from  the  Epilogue  to  '•  The  Second  Part 
of  King  Henry  IV.,"  in  which,  after  prom- 


ising that  the  play  shall  be  continued 
"with  Sir  John  in  it,  '  he  says,  ''For 
any  thing  T  know,  Falstaff  shall  die  of  a 
sweat,  unless  already  he  be  killed  with 
your  hard  opinions  ;  for  Oldca.stle  died  a 
martyr,  and  tkis  is  not  the  man." 

All  novelists  have  had  occasion,  at  some 
time  or  otlier,  to  wish,  with  Falstaif',  that  they 
knt'W  where  a  commodity  of  good  names  was 
to  be  had.  Sh-  W.  Scott. 

Fang.  A  sheriffs  officer,  jn  the  Second 
Part  of  Shakespeare's  "  King  Henry 

Farinata  (degli  TJberti)  (fS-re-na'ta 
del'vee  oo-ber'tee).  A  Ghibelline 
noble  of  Florence  (d.  1G24),  placed 
by  Dante  in  hell,  as  a  punishment 
for  his  inlidelity  and  epicurism.  He 
is  represented  as  occupying  a  red-hot 
toml),  the  lid  of  which  is  suspended 
over  him  till  the  day  of  judgment, 
yet  looking  as  lofty  as  if  he  scorned 
hell  itself. 

They  [the  Italian,*  of  the  fourteenth  century] 
said  little  of  those  awful  and  lovely  creations 
on  which  later  critics  delight  to  dwell,  —  Fari- 
nata, lifting  his  haughty  and  tranquil  brow 
from  his  couch  of  everhistiust  tire,  the  lion-like 
repose  of  Sordello,  or  the  li^ht  which  shone 
from  the  celestial  smile  of  Beatrice. 

3facaulay. 

Farmer  George.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  (jeorge  III.  of  England,  on 
account  of  his  parsimonious  disposi- 
tion, plain  dress,  familiar  manners, 
and  hearty  and  homely  good-nature. 
He  is  said  to  have  kept  a  larm  at 
Windsor,  not  for  amusement,  but  be- 
cause he  derived  a  small  profit  from 
it. 

Fata  Morgana  (fS'ta  mof-gS'na). 
The  name  of  a  potent  fairy,  celebrated 
in  the  tales  of  chivalry,  and  in  the 
romantic  poems  of  Italy.  She  was  a 
pupil  of  the  enchanter  Merlin,  and 
the  sister  of  Arthur,  to  Avhom  she 
discovered  the  intrigue  of  his  queen, 
Geneura,  or  Guinevcr,  with  Lancelot 
of  the  Lake.  In  the  "  Orlando  Inna- 
morato  "  of  Bojardo,  she  ai)pears  at 
first  as  a  persom'iicatinn  of  Fortune, 
inhabiting  a  splendid  residence  at 
the  bottom  of  a  lake,  and  dispensing 
all  the  trcasiHTs  of  the  earth  :  but  she 
is  afterward  found  in  her  proper  sta- 
tion, subject,  with  the  other  fairies 
and  the  witches,  to  the  all -potent 
Demogorgon.  [Called  al.so  Muryaine 
la  Fee  and  Morgut  the  Fay.^ 


For  the   "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


FAT 


127 


FAT 


4®=-  At  the  present  day,  the  appellation 
of  Fata  Morgana  is  given  to  a  strange 
meteoric  piienomenon,  nearly  allied  to  the 
mirage,  witnessed,  in  certain  states  of  the 
tide  and  weather,  in  the  Straits  of  Mes- 
sina,  hetween  Calabria  and  Sicily,  and 
occa.sionally,  though  rarely,  on  other 
coasts.  It  consists  in  the  appearance,  in 
the  air  over  the  surface  of  the  sea,  of 
multiplied  inverted  images  of  objects  on 
the  surrounding  coasts, — groves,  hills, 
towers,  houses,  and  people. — all  rep- 
resented as  in  a  moving  picture.  The 
spectacle  is  popularly  supposed  to  be  pro- 
duced by  the  fairy  whose  name  is  given 
to  it. 

Not  a  stream  did  he  mention  but  flowed  over 
Bands  of  sold,  and  not  a  palace  that  was  in- 
ferior to  tliose  of  the  celebrated  Fata  Morgana. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Fat  Boy,  The.  A  laughable  character 
in  Dickens's  "  PickAvick  Papers;" 
a  youth  of  astonishing  obesity,  whose 
employment  consists  in  alternate  eat- 
ing and  sleeping. 

Fates.     [Lat.  Fata.']     See  Parce. 

Father  of  Angling.  A  title  some- 
times given  to  Izaak  Walton  (15!)-}- 
1683),  the  celebrated  author  of"  The 
Complete  Angler." 

Father  of  British  Inland  Naviga- 
tion. A  name  often  given  to  Krancis 
Egerton,  Duke  of  Bridgewater  (173t)- 
1803),  the  originator  of  the  first 
navigable  canal  constructed  in  Great 
Britain  in  modern  times,  and  a  zeal- 
ous promoter  of  other  schemes  of 
artificial  water  communication. 

j$^  '•  By  that  title  he  will  ever  be 
known."'  H.  Mnrti/ieau. 

Father  of  Comedy.  A  name  given 
to  Aristophanes  (444-380  h.  c),  one 
of  the  most  celebrated  of  the  Greek 
dramatists,  and  the  only  writer  of 
the  old  Greek  comedy  of  whom  any 
entire  works  have  been  preserved. 
He  is  remarkable  for  the  richness  of 
his  fancy,  the  exuberance  of  his  wit 
and  humor,  and  the  Attic  purity  and 
great  simplicity  of  his  style. 

Father  of  Dutch  Poetry.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Jakob  ^Nlaerlant  ( 1235- 
1300),  an  early  Belgic  poet.  [Called 
also  Father  oj'  Flemish  Poets.'\ 

Father  of  Ecclesiastical  History. 
A  name  commonly  given  to  Eusebius 
of  Caesarea  (264-340),  a  very  learned 


patristic  divine,  author  of  "  Histnria 
Ecclesiastica,"  an  important  and  valu- 
able record  of  the  Christian  Church, 
in  ten  books,  reaching  trom  the  birth 
of  our  Saviour  to  the  defeat  of  Licin- 
ius  by  Coustantine  in  324. 

Father  of  English  Geology.  An 
honorary  appellation  given  to  \Villiara 
Smith  (i76!i-1840),  author  of  the  first 
geological  ma]j  of  England,  and  the 
origmal  di.'^cov  erer  and  teacher,  in  that 
country,  of  the  identilication  of  strata, 
and  of  the  determination  of  their  suc- 
cession by  means  of  their  imbedded 
fossils. 

Father  of  English  Poetry.  A  title 
given  by  Dryden  to  Chaucer  (four- 
teenth century),  as  the  first  great 
English  poet. 

Father  of  English  Prose.  An  ap- 
pellation bestowed  on  Roger  Ascham 
(1515-1568),  one  of  our  earliest  mis- 
cellaneous writers.  Ills  style  is  re- 
garded as  a  fine  example  of  genuine 
English. 

Father  of  Epic  Poetry.  A  nan  e 
api)lied  to  Homer,  the  reputed  author 
of  the  "  Iliad  "  and  the  "Gdyssey."  the 
earliest  national  heroic  poems  extant. 

The  former  compares  liim  [Samncl  Ihch- 
ardsonjto  Homer,  and  predicts  for  liis  memory 
the  same  lionors  wliii-h  are  rendered  to  the 
Father  of  Fpir  J'octry.  Sir  ]V.  Scott. 

Father  of  Equity.  A  surname 
conferred  on  Heneage  Finch,  Lord 
Xottingham  (1621-1682),  an  English 
laA\yer  and  statesman  of  the  time  of 
the  Restoration,  who  had  a  very  high 
reputation  for  eloquence,  sound  iiidg- 
ment,  and  integrity.  Ills  character 
is  drawn  by  Dryden,  in  his  "Absa- 
lom and  Achitophel,"  under  the  name 
of  Amri  :  — 

"  To  whom  the  double  blessing  does  belong. 
With  Moses'  inspiration,  Aaron's  tongue. 

Father  of  French  History-  [Fr. 
//('  Pere  de  I'llistoire  de  France.]  A 
title  given  to  Andre  Duchesne  (1584- 
1640),  an  early  and  celebrated  French 
historian. 

Father  of  German  Literature.  A 
name  frequently  given  to  Gotthold 
Ephraim  Lessing  (1729-1781),  an  il- 
lustrious author,  and  the  admitted 
reviver  of  the  national  character  of 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xlv-xxxii. 


FAT 


128 


FAT 


German  literature,  which  before  his 
time  was  corrupted  and  enslaved  by 
Irencli  inHucnces. 

4bg"  "  Lessin^  was  the  Frederick  [the 
Great]  of  thought.  JJy  nature  wholly 
Teutonic,  he  too  sounded  a  truuipet-call ; 
und.  with  a  restless  energy  in  no  wise  in- 
ferior to  Frederick's,  an  activity  and  plen- 
itude of  resources  that  overlooked  no 
opportunity,  he  dashed,  now  into  this 
region  of  dormant  literature,  now  into 
that  unpenetrated  dei)artuient  of  philoso- 
phy, until  he  liad  laid  the  foundation  of 
almostevery  ('oii([uest  that  has  illustrated 
the  recent  ever-ujeuiorable  career  of  his 
kindred  •'  J.  P.  Nichol. 

Father  of  Greek  Music.  An  appella- 
tioii  si^iven  to  Terpaiider,  of  Lesbos, 
who  lived  about  the  year  676  n.  c.  He 
tirst  reduced  to  rules  the  different 
modes  of  singing  wtiich  prevaded  in 
dirterent  countries,  and  formed  out  of 
these  rude  strains  a  connected  sys- 
tem, from  which  the  Greek  music 
never  departed  throughout  all  the  im- 
provements and  relinements  of  later 
ages. 

Father  of  his  Country-  [Lat.  Pafpi' 
Patrke,  or  Panns  Patrhe.]  A  title 
given  by  the  Roman  senate  and  forum 
to  Cicero,  on  account  of  the  zeal, 
courage,  and  prudence  he  displayed 
in  unmasking  the  famous  Catilinarian 
conspiracy,  and  bnnging  the  leaders 
to  punishment  This  title  was  offered 
to  Marias,  but  was  refused  by  him. 
It  was  subsequently  bestowed  upon 
several  of  the  Civ^sars,  and  was  borne 
b}' Andronicus  Pahvologus  (Androni- 
cus  II.),  by  Cosmo  de'  Medici,  and 
by  some  other  European  princes. 
The  same  appellatic  n  has  been  ])op- 
iilarly  conferred  in  America  upon 
Washington,  of  whom  Jelferson  said, 
"  Ilis  was  the  singular  destiny  and 
merit  of  leading  the  armies  of  his 
countr\'  successfully  through  an  ardu- 
ous war  for  the  establishment  of  its 
independence."  and  "  of  conducting 
its  councils  through  the  birth  of  a 
government  new  in  its  forms  and 
principles,  until  it  had  settled  down 
into  a  quiet  and  orderly  train." 

Father  of  his  People.  [Fr.  Le  P'ere 
(h  la  Pciip/e.l  1.  A  title  given  by 
courtly  historians  to  Louis  XIL  of 
France    (1462-1515),  who    has    the 


reputation   of   having  been  a  kind- 
hearted  and  generous  king. 

2.     A  title   conferred  upon  Chris^ 
tian  III.  of  Denmark  (1502-1559). 

Father  of  History.  [Lat.  I'attr  Ilis- 
torioi.^  A  name  given  bv  Cicero 
(Ley.  i.  i.  v.)  to  Herodotus  (484-4U8, 
B.  c),  because  he  was,  if  not  the  lirst 
historian,  the  lirst  who  brought  his- 
tory to  any  great  degree  ot  perfection. 

Father  of  Jests.  A  sobriquet  be- 
stowed upon  Joseph  Miller  (1684- 
1738),  an  English  comic  actor,  whose 
name  has  become  widely  known  from 
its  connection  with  a  celebrated  jest- 
book,  the  authorshij)  of  which  was 
ascribi'd  to  him.  though  it  was  not 
published,  or  even  compiled,  until  af- 
ter his  death. 

4t?=  Miller  was  himself  proverbial  for 
dullness  ;  and  it  is  said,  that,  when  any 
risible  saying  was  recounted,  his  neigh- 
bors would  derisively  apply  it  to  him  on 
account  of  his  taciturnity  and  impertur- 
bable gravity.  When  he  died,  his  family 
were  left  entirely  unprovided  for  ;  and  a 
Mr.  Motlej',  a  well-known  dramatist  of 
that  day,  was  employed  to  collect  all  the 
stray  jests  current  about  town,  and  to 
publish  them  for  their  benefit.  Joe  Mil- 
ler's name  was  prefixed,  and.  from  that 
time  to  this,  the  man  who  never  uttered 
a  jest  has  been  the  reputed  author  of 
tvery  jest,  past,  present,  and  to  come. 

Father  of  Letters.  [Fr.  Le  P'ere 
des  Lettres.]  1.  An  appellation  some- 
times given  to  Francis  I.  (1494-1547), 
king  of  France,  a  distinguished  pa- 
tron of  literature  and  literary  men. 

2.  A  title  conferred  upon  Lorenzo 
de'  Medici  (d.  14U2),  the  ruler  of 
Florence,  and  a  munificent  patron  of 
learning  and  art. 

Father  of  Lies.  1.  A  popular  name 
for  Satan,  or  the  Devil,  the  supposed 
instigator  of  all  falsehood.  See  Dkv- 
IL,  The. 

2.  A  name  sometimes  given  to 
Herodotus  (484-408  n.  c),  the  Greek 
historian,  on  account  of  the  wonderful 
stories  he  relates.  But  the  title  is  not 
merited,  and  has  been  given  by  "  the 
half-learned,  who  measure  his  experi- 
ence by  their  own  ignorance."  Inci- 
dental confirmations  of  his  A-eracity 
have  been  accumulating  of  late  years 
on  all  sides. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


FAT 


129 


FAT 


Father  of  Medicine.  A  title  often 
applied  to  llippixnites  (b.  u.  c.  4(iO), 
the  most  lainous  among  the  Greek 
physician:?,  and  author  of  the  tirst 
atteni])t  at  a  scientilic  treatment  of 
medienie. 

Father  of  Monks.  A  title  conferred 
upon  Kthelwold  of  Winchester  (d. 
08-4)  bv  his  contemporaries.  lie  is 
celebrated  as  a  relbrmerof  the  monas- 
tic orders  in  England. 

Father  of  Moral  Philosophy.  An 
appellation  bestowed  upon  Thomas 
A(|uinas  (1227-1274),  the  famous 
scholastic  theologian,  on  account  of 
his  original,  clear,  and  comprehensive 
treatment  of  Christian  ethics. 

Father  of  Music.  A  title  bestowed 
upon  Giambattista  Pietro  Aloisio  da 
Palestrina  (1529-1594),  a  celebrated 
Italian  composer  of  church  music. 
"  Dy  his  tine  taste  and  admirable 
skill  in  harmony,"  says  Burney,  he 
''  l)rouglit  choral  music  to  a  degree  of 
perfection  that  has  never  been  ex- 
ceeded." 

Father  of  Ornithologists.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  George  Edwards 
( 1093-1773),  an  eminent  English 
naturalist,  whose  works,  according  to 
Swainson,  ''  are  assuredly  the  most 
valuable  on  general  ornithology  that 
have  ever  appeared  in  England." 

Father  of  Orthodoxy.  A  name  often 
given  to  Athanasius  (29G-373),  arch- 
bishop of  Alexandria,  one  of  the 
brightest  ornaments  of  the  early 
Church,  and  the  great  defender  of 
'•  orthodoxy  "  against  all  heretics, 
especially  the  Arians. 

Father  of  Peace.  A  title  conferred 
by  the  Genoese  senate  upon  Andrea 
Uoria  (1408-1560),  the  celebrated 
ruler  and  admiral.  He  entered  the 
service  of  Charles  V.  against  Francis 
I.,  and  became  the  deliverer  of  his 
country  by  expelling  the  French 
from  Genoa.  After  the  conclusion  of 
peace,  Doria  was  invested  with  su- 
preme power,  and  the  senate  awarded 
him  the  title  above  named. 

Father  of  Poetry.  1.  A  title  some- 
times given  to  Orpheus,  of  Thrace, 
an  ancient  Greek  poet  who  is  said  to 
have   flourished  before  Homer,  and 


before  the  siege  of  Troy,  but  whose 
existence  has  Ix-en  called  in  question, 
besides  others  by  Aristotle. 

2.  The  same  title  is  sometimes 
given  to  Homer.  See  Fathek  of 
Epic  Pokthv. 

lie  wlioni  all  civilized  nations  now  ac- 
knowIedj;e  as  the  Father  of  I'oetri/,  must  have 
himself  looked  back  to  an  ancestry  of  poetical 
predecessors,  and  is  only  held  original  because 
we  know  not  from  whom  he  copied. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Father  of  Bidicule.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Francois  Kabelais 
(1483-1553),  the  first  noteworthy 
comic  romancer  of  modern  times,  and 
the  most  original  and  remarkable  of 
all  humorists. 

Father  of  Song.  A  title  sometimes 
bestowed  upon  Homer,  the  supposed 
author  of  the  earliest  Greek  heroic 
poems  extant,  and  of  some  hymns  in 
praise  of  different  gods. 

Father  of  the  Faithful.  A  name 
often  given  to  Abraliam,  the  pro- 
genitor of  the  Jewish  nation,  and  the 
first  depositaiy  of  the  divine  promises 
in  favor  of  the  chosen  people.  See 
Rnrti.  iv. ;  Gcd.  iii.  6-9. 

Father  of  the  Poor.  An  appellation 
given  to  Bernard  Gilpin  (1517-1583), 
a  celebrated  English  relbrmer,  on 
account  of  his  pious  and  unwearied 
exertions  among  the  poorer  classes. 

Father  of  the  Rondo.  [Fr.  Le  Pere 
mix  RonchauxJ]  A  title  sometimes 
given  to  J.  B.  Davaux  (d.  1822),  a 
celebrated  French  musical  composer. 

Father  of  the  Vaudeville.    [Fr.  Le 

Ph'e  Joymx  du  Vaudeville .'\  A  name 
given  to  Oliver  Basselin,  a  Nonnan 
poet  and  artisan,  who  flourished  in 
the  fitteenth  century,  and  gave  to  his 
convivial  songs  the  name  of  his  native 
valW,  the  Val-de-  17/e,  or,  in  Old 
French,  Vau-de-  Vive.  This  name 
was  af^terward  corrupted  into  the 
modern  vniidtrille. 

Father  of  Tragedy.  A  title  bestowed 
bv  the  Athenians  upon  the  poet 
^schylus  (B.  c.  525-426).  The  al- 
terations made  by  him  in  the  com- 
position and  representation  of  tragedy 
were  so  great,  that  he  was  justly 
considered  the  originator  of  it. 

Father  of  "Waters.    A  popular  name 


and  for  the  Remarkis  and  Rules  to  wliich  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 
9 


FAT 


130 


FAU 


given  to  the  river  Mississippi  on  ac- 
count of  its  great  length  (;3i(iO  miles), 
and  the  very  large  number  of  its 
tributaries,  of  which  tlie  Ked,  the 
Arkansas,  the  Ohio,  the  Missouri,  the 
Illinois,  the  Des  Moines,  the  Wiscon- 
sin, and  the  St.  Peter's  or  Minnesota, 
are  the  most  important.  The  literal 
signitication  of  the  name,  which  is 
of  Indian  origin,  is  said  to  be  "  yrtat 

j^g"  The  name  of  the  great  river  of 
Farther  India,  the  Irrawaddy,  i-*  said  to 
mean  ■•  Father  of  Waters."  The  course 
of  this  river  is  estimated  at  1200  miles  iu 
length. 

Father  Paul.  The  name  usually 
given  to  Peter  Sarpi  (1.55-2-1628),  a 
native  of  Venice,  and  a  celebrated 
ecclesiastic,  historian,  anatomist,  and 
astronomer.  He  is  best  known  by 
his  work  entitled  "  A  History  of  the 
Council  of  Trent."  He  was  a  father 
of  the  order  of  Servites  in  Venice, 
and,  on  assuming  the  religious  habit, 
changed  his  baptismal  name  of  Peter 
for  that  of  Paul. 

Father  Prout.  A  pseudonym  adopted 
by  Francis  INIahony,  a  popular  Eng- 
lish journalist  and  author  of  the 
present  day. 

Father  Thoughtful.  [Fr.  Pere  de 
la  Ptiisee.]  A  title  given  to  Nicho- 
las Catinat  (1637-1712),  nmrshal  of 
France,  by  his  soldiers,  on  account 
of  his  caution  and  j  udgment. 

Father  Violet.  [Fr.  Le  Pkre  la 
Viohtte.'\  A  nickname  given  by  the 
Parisian  populace  to  the  Emperor 
Napoleon  I.     See  Violet,  Cokpo- 

Fathom,  Ferdinand,  Count.  The 
title  of  a  novel  by  Smollett,  and  the 
name  of  its  principal  cliaracter,  a 
complete  villain,  who  proceeds  step 
by  step  to  rob  his  benefactors  and 
pillage  mankind,  and  Avho  finally 
dies  in  misery  and  despair. 

The  sturdy  genius  of  modern   philosophy 

has  got  her  m  much  the  same  situation  that 

Count  Fathom  has  the  woman  that  he  lashes 

before  him  from  the  robbers'  cave  in  the  forest. 

Charles  Laiiib. 

Fat'i-ra$.  1.  A  female  miracle-work- 
er, in  the  stor}' of  "Aladdin,"  in  the 
'"Arabian  Nights'  Entertainments." 


2.  The  last  of  the  wives  of  Blue- 
beard, and  the  only  one  who  escaped 
being  nmrdered  by  him.     See  Blue- 

liKAKD. 

"  Well,  guardian,"  said  I,  "  without  think- 
ing myself  a  Fatima,  or  jou  a  Blue-beard,  I 
uin  a  little  curious  about  it."  Jjickens. 

Faun,  o/- Fau'nus.  {Rom.  Myth.)  A 
king  of  Italy,  said  to  have  tlourished 
about  13UU  years  n.  c,  and  riigarded 
as  the  promoter  of  agriculture  among 
his  subjects,  and  as  one  of  the  great 
founders  of  the  religion  of  the  coun- 
try. After  his  death,  he  was  wor- 
shiped as  the  protecting  god  of  woods, 
tield*:,  and  shepherds,  and  as  an 
oracular  and  jjrophetie  divinity.  As 
a  rural  deity,  he  corresponded  in 
many  of  his  attributes  to  the  Greek 
Pan  ;  and  hence  arose  the  idea  of  a 
plurality  of  Fauns,  or  Fauni,  assimi- 
lated to"  the  Greek  Panes  or  satyrs, 
and  represented  as  monster  deities, 
with  tails,  short  horns,  pointed  ears, 
and  goats'  legs  and  feet,  with  the 
rest  of  the  body  human,  to  whom  all 
terrifying  sounds  and  appearances 
were  ascribed. 

In  shadier  bower, 
More    sacred   and    sequestered,  though   but 

feigned. 
Pan  or  Sylvanus  never  slept;  nor  nymph 
Nur  Fau'nus  haunted.  jlilton. 

Fau'na.  (Rom.  Myth.)  The  prophesy- 
ing wife  or  sister  of  Faunus. 

Faust  (  Ger.  pron.  fowst ;  Anglicized 
fawst.)  The  hero  and  title  of  a  cele- 
brated drama  of  Goethe,  the  materials 
of  Avhich  are  drawn  in  part  from 
the  popular  legends  of  Dr.  Faustus. 
Faust  is  a  student  who  is  toiling  after 
knowledge  beyond  his  reach,  and 
who  afterward  deserts  his  studies, 
and  makes  a  pact  with  the  Devil 
(^Mephistopheles),  in  pursuance  of 
which  he  gives  himself  up  to  the  full 
enjoyment  of  the  senses,  until  the 
hour  of  his  doom  arrives,  when 
Mephistopheles  re-appears  upon  the 
scene,  and  carries  off  his  victim  as  a 
condemned  soul.  On  one  occasion, 
Mephistopheles  provided  him  with 
a  mantle  by  Avhich  he  was  wafted 
through  the  air  whithersoever  he 
desired.  See  Margaret,  Mephis- 
topheles, and  Wagner. 

The  mythical  Faust  dates  from  th» 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


FAU 


131 


FEL 


ppriod  of  the  Reformation.  The  numer- 
ous lei^ends  conntcted  with  the  name  all 
relor  to  a  certain  Dr.  Faustu.s,  reputed  to 
be  a  celebrated  magician  and  necroman- 
cer, who  tiourished  during  tlie  latter  naif 
of  the  fifteenth  and  the  beginning  of  the 
Bixte-euth  ceuturies,  and  who  i.s  otteii  con- 
fouuded  with  Johann  taust,  or  Fust,  tlie 
associate  of  CJutenberg  in  the  iuventiou 
of  the  art  of  printing.  it  has  been  by 
many  strenuously  maintained  that  no 
such  person  ever  existed,  and  that  the 
name  has  been  fancifully  imputed  to  some 
magician  ob  Jaustum  in  rebus  peructu 
difficiUiynis  succtssum.  As  long  ago  as 
the  seventeenth  centurj',  two  books  were 
written  witli  the  purpo.se  of  proving  the 
historical  nonentity  of  Dr.  Faustus.-  xMod- 
eru  criticism,  however,  leaves  little  room 
for  doubting  that  there  was  a  real  person 
of  this  name.  Faustus  occupies  tlie  same 
place  in  reference  to  the  popular  super- 
stitions of  Germany  that  the  enchanter 
Merlin  does  to  those  of  England,  tliat  Don 
J  uan  holds  in  Spain.  Robert  of  Normandy 
iu  France, and  Virgil  in  Italy.  The  Goe- 
thean  Faust  is  the  highest  form  which 
the  tradition  has  attained.     See  infra. 

JS^  "  As  in  Germany  all  popular  wit 
clusters  about  Eulenspiegel,  so  all  that  is 
weird,  mysterious,  and  magical,  —  all  that 
foretokens  tlie  terrible  abyss  of  hell,  — 
groups  itself  about  the  story  of  Faust." 
Sc'heible,  Trans. 

He  says,  in  so  manj^  words,  ..."  Society 
Bails  through  the  infinitude  on  cloth,  as  on  a 
Taust's  mantle  .  .  .  ;  and,  without  .such  .  .  . 
mantle,  would  sink  to  endless  depths,  or 
mount  to  inane  limbos,  and  in  either  case  be 
no  more."  Carli/le. 

Faus'tus.  The  hero  of  Marlowe's 
tragedy  of  the  same  name  ;  repre- 
sented as  a  vulgar  sorcerer  tempted 
to  sell  hi.s  soul  to  the  Devil  (Mephos- 
tophilis)  on  condition  of  having  a 
familiar  spirit  at  his  command,  the 
possession  of  earthly  power  and  glory, 
and  unlimited  gratification  of  his  sen- 
sual appetites,  for  twenty-four  years, 
at  the  end  of  which  time,  when  the 
forfeit  comes  to  be  exacted,  he  shrinks 
and  shudders  in  agony  and  remorse, 
hnploring  yet  despairing  of  the  mercy 
of  Heaven. 

je®="  The  tradition  of  the  magician 
Faustus  WHS  early  transplanted  to  Eng- 
land from  Germany.  In  the  same  year 
(1587-8)  in  which  the  first  history  of 
Faust  appeared  in  Germany,  one  ap- 
peared in  England  written  bv  Bishop 
AyUner.  The  transition  from  history  to  j 
the  drama  was  soon    made,   Marlowe's 


"  Faustus  "  having  been  composed  not 
later,  probably,  tiian  1581)  or  1590,  and 
having  been  entered  in  the  Statiouera' 
books  in  ItiUU-l.  See  Faust. 
Fa-vo'ni-us.  [Lat.,  irum  J'dvere,  to 
lavor.J  {Horn.  Mytli.)  A  personili- 
cation  of  the  west  wind,  regartled 
as  the  harbinger  and  attendant  of 
spring,  and  a  promoter  of  vegetation; 
the  same  as  Zipltyrus.  See  Zephy- 
itus. 

Ye  delicate!  .  .  .  for  whom 
The  winter  rose  must  blow,  .  .  .  and  silky 

soft 
FavoHius  breathe  still  softer  or  be  chid. 

Young. 

Faw'ni-a.  The  mistress  or  lady-love 
of  Dorastus,  in  the  old  romance  of 
this  name.     See  Dorastus. 

Feeble.  A  recruit,  in  the  Second  Part 
of  Shakespeare's  "  King  Henry  IV." 
Falstatf  calls  him  "  most  forcible 
Feeble;"  and  this  expression  is  some- 
times used  to  stigmatize  writers 
whose  productions  are  characterized 
by  great  apparent  vigor,  though  re- 
ally tame  or  jejune. 

Hef  Aytonn]  would  purge  his  book  of  much 
offensive  matter,  if  he  struck  out  epithets 
which  are  in  the  bad  taste  of  the  forciole- 
feeOle  school.  Aorth  Brit.  Rev. 

Felicians,  The  (fe-lish'jinz).  An  im- 
aginary people  described  by  Mercier 
de  la  Iviviere  (1720-1794),  the  French 
economist,  in  his  work  entitled  "  L' 
Heureuse  Nation;"  represented  as 
free  and  sovereign,  and  living  under 
the  absolute  empire  of  laws. 

Fe'lix-mar'te  of  Hyr-ca'ni-a.  The 
hero  of  an  old  romance  of  chivalry, 
written  by  Melchior  de  Orteza  Cabal- 
lero  de  Ubeda,  and  printed  at  Valla- 
dolid  in  the  year  15G6.  His  father's 
name  being  Flarisan,  and  his  moth- 
er's Maftedinn^  it  was  suggested  that 
he  should  be  called  Florismarte,  after 
both  of  his  parents.  His  mother, 
however,  preferred  Felixmarte. 

i5@=-  The  curate,  in  "  Don  Quixote," 
condemned  this  work  to  the  flames,  and 
Lockhart  speaks  of  it  as  a  "  dull  and 
affected  folio  :"  but  Dr.  Johnson  was  of  a 
different  opinion,  according  to  Boswell, 
who  relates  the  following  anecdote  of  him, 
on  the  authority  of  BRihop  Percy  :  "  The 
bishop  .said  the  doctor,  when  a  boy,  was 
immoderatelj'  fond  of  romances  of  chiv- 
alry, and  he  had  retained  his  fondness 
for  them  through  life  ;  so  that,  spending 


imd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv  zxxfi. 


FEM 


132 


FER 


part  of  a  Bummer  at  my  parsonage-house 
in  the  country,  he  chose  lor  his  regular 
reading  the  old  Spanish  romance  of 
'  Felixmarte  of  llyrcania,'  in  folio,  which 
he  read  quite  through." 

I'emale  How'Srd.  A  title  often 
given  to  Mrs.  "Klizabeth  Vry  (1780- 
184:4),  an  Engiisliwonian  celebrated 
for  her  benevolent  exertions  to  i)n- 
prove  the  condition  of  lunatics  and 
prisoners. 

Fe-nel'la.  A  fi\iry-like  creature  —  a 
deaf  and  dumb  attendant  on  the 
Countess  of  Derby  —  in  Sir  A\'alter 
Scott's  "  I'everil  of  the  Peak,"  taken 
from  the  sketcii  of  Mignon  in  Goetlie's 
"  Wiliielm  Meister."     See  Migmon. 

Fenrir  (fen'rer).  (Scand.  Afyfh.)  A 
frightful  d(!nion  wolf,  the  oflspring  of 
Loki,  chained  by  the  gods,  and  cast 
down  into  NifJlieim,  where  he  is  to 
remain  until  Kagnariik.  [Written 
also,  but  erroneously,  Fenris.] 

Fen'ton  (-tn).  A  character  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor," 
Avho  wooes  the  rich  Anne  Page  for 
her  money,  but  soon  discovers  inward 
treasures  in  her  which  quite  trans- 
form him. 

Perdinand.  1.  A  character  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Tempest."  He  is  son  of 
the  king  of  Naples,  and  falls  in  love 
with  Miranda,  the  daughter  of  Pros- 

?ero,  a  banished  Duke  of  Milan.  See 
RosPEKo  and  Miranda. 

Yet  oft  to  fancy's  ehapel  she  would  go 
To  pay  her  vows,  and  count  the  rosary  o'er 

Ot'lier  love's  promised  graces:  —  haply  so 
Miranda's  liope  hud  pictured  Fcr'Unand 
Long  ere  the  gaunt  wave  tossed  him  on  the 
shore.  Lowell. 

2.  King  of  Navarre,  a  character  in 
"  Love's  Labor  's  Lost." 

Fer'gus  (4).  The  same  as  Ferracute. 
See  FEititACUTE. 

rem,  Fanny.  A  pseudonym  adopt- 
ed by  ]\Irs.  Sarah  Payson  (Willis) 
Parton  (b.  1811),  a  popular  American 
authoress. 

Fernan  Caballero.  See  Cabal- 
LEito,   Fernan. 

Fe-ro'ni-a.  {Rom.  Myth.)  An  an- 
cient Italian  deity,  the  patroness  of 
plants  aud  of  froedmen. 

Fer'ra-cute,  or  Fgr'ra-cu'tus.  [It., 
sharp-iron.]     The  name  of  a  giant 


I  in  Turpin's  "  Chronicle  of  Charle- 
magne, '  the  i)roi<)ty]i('  of  Pulci's 
Morgante,  aud  a  very  lanious  char- 
acter in  all  the  old  chivalric  romances. 
He  was  of  the  race  of  Goliath,  had 
the  strength  of  lorty  men,  and  was 
twenty  cubits  high.  His  skin  was  so 
thick  that  no  lance  or  sword  could 
pierce  it.  During  the  suspen.-ion  of  a 
mortal  combat  with  Orlando,  the  two' 
antagonists  discussed  the  mysteries 
of  the  Christian  laith,  which  its 
champion  exjjlained  by  a  variety  of 
similes  and  the  mo.st  beautiful  b(g- 
gings  of  the  question ;  alter  which- 
the  giant  staked  the  credit  of  tiieir 
respectiA  e  beliefs  on  the  event  of  their 
encounter,  which  was,  that  he  was  dis- 
armed and  put  to  death  l)y  ( )rUindo, 
Avho  was  divinely  endowed  Avith  irre- 
sistible strength  for  this  express  pur- 
pose. 
F6r'ra-gus.  A  giant  who  flourished 
in  romantic  table ;  the  same  as  Fer- 
racutt.     See  I'Erraccte. 

My  sire's  tall  form  might  grace  the  part 
Ot  Ferruffus  or  Asc:ipart.  Sir  ]V.  Scott. 

Ferrau  (fer-ra-oT)^).  The  same  as 
Ferracute.     See  Ferracute. 

F6r'rex.  A  son  of  a  fabulous  king 
of  Britain,  Gorbogudo  or  Gorbodego, 
and  biother  of  Poi-rex,  by  wlu  m  he 
was  driven  out  of  the  countiy,  and, 
on  attempting  to  return,  with  a  large 
army,  was  defeated  and  slain.  But 
Porrex  himself  was  shortly  alter  put 
to  death  by  his  mother,  with  the  a.s- 
sistance  of  some  of  her  women.  The 
two  brothers  tigure  in  an  f»ld  tragedy, 
commonly  called  alter  them  '^  Ferrex 
and  Porrex,"  but  sometimes  named 
"  Gorboduc,"  after  their  lather.  Hal- 
liwell  says  that  it  was  "  the  first  reg- 
ular historical  play  in  the  English 
language."  The  first  three  acts 
Avere  written  by  Thomas  Norton  ;  the 
last  two  by  Thomas  Sackville,  after- 
wards Lord  Buckhurst. 

FSr'um-bras,  Sir.  The  hero  of  an 
old  English  metrical  romance  of  the 
same  name,  professedly  translated 
from  a  French  original,  probably 
"  Fierabras."  (See  Fiei;ahras.)  An 
analysis  of  the  stor}^  mav  be  found  in 
Ellis's  ''  Specimens  of  Early  English 
Metrical  Romances,"  vol.  ii. 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation*, 


FIA 


133 


FIG 


Piammetta  (fe-am-met/t<i,  102).  [It., 
little  tlaine,  I'roiii  //'///</«'?,  \jiit. jtiDiiiud, 
tlanie.J  A  name  given  by  Boccaccio 
to  a  lady  whom  he  loved,  and  T\'ho 
is  generally  believed  to  have  been 
INIaria,  a  natural  daughter  of  Kol)ert, 
king  of  Naples.  It  is  used  by  him 
in  many  of  his  works. 

Fi-de'le.  A  feigned  name  assumed 
by  Imogen,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Cym- 
beline."     See  Imogen. 

!Field  of  Blood.  1.  A  translation  of 
the  Hebrew  word  Acel'lainn,  the 
name  given  to  the  piece  of  land  pur- 
chased by  the  chief  priests  with  the 
thirty  pieces  of  silver  for  which  Ju- 
das betrayed  his  Master,  and  which 
he  afterward,  in  remorse,  carried 
back  and  cast  down  in  the  temple 
before  those  who  had  bribed  him. 
{M  itt.  xxvii.  5.)_ 

2.  [It.  Ptzzo  di  Sangue.'\  A  name 
—  not  of  classical  origin  —  given  to 
the  battle-tield  of  Cannie,  on  which 
Hannibal,  in  the  year  21(3  b.  c, 
defeated  the  Romans  with  great 
si  a  Lighter. 

Field  of  Mourning.  A  name  given 
to  the  place  of  a  battle,  near  the  city 
of  Aragon,  between  the  Christians 
and  the  Moors,  July  17,  1134. 

Field  of  Peterloo.  See  Peterloo, 
Field  of. 

Field  of  the  Cloth  of  Gold.  A 
name  given  to  an  open  plain,  between 
Ardres  and  Guisnes,  where  Henry 
Yin.  of  England  had  an  interview, 
in  152i),  with  Francis  I.  of  F' ranee,  in 
a  i)avilion  of  golden  cloth.  The  no- 
bility of  both  kingdoms  embraced 
the  opportunity  to  display  their  mag- 
nilicence  with  the  utmost  emulation 
and  profuseness  of  expense. 

I  supposed  you  must  have  served  as  a  yeo- 
man of  the  fiuard  since  Bhiff  King  Henry's 
time,  and  expected  to  hear  something  from 
you  about  tlie  Field  of  the  Cloth  at'  Goid. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Tliey  [Petrarch's  best  compositions]  differ 
from  them  |lns  bad  ones]  as  a  May-day  pro- 
cessiijn  of  chimney-sweepers  differs  from  the 
Field  or'  the  Cloth'of  Gold.  Macuulay. 

Fierabras  (fe'a'ra'bra').  The  hero 
of  various  old  romantic  poems  that 
relate  the  conquest  of  Spain  by 
Charlemagne  and  his  Twelve  Peers. 
Fierabras,  who  was  a  Saracen,  made 


himself  master  of  Rome,  and  carried 
away  from  it  various  sacred  relics, 
esj)ecially  the  crown  of  thorns,  and 
the  balsam  which  was  used  in  env 
balming  the  body  of  the  Saviour, 
and  which  ])Ossessed  medicinal  prop- 
erties of  sovereign  virtue,  a  single 
drop,  taken  internally,  being  sulli- 
cient  to  restore  the  continuity  of  the 
most  cruelly  mangled  skin. 

Conveyances  more  rapid  than  tlie  hinpogriff 
of  Kugniero,  anus  more  formidal)le  than  the 
hmec  of  Astolfo,  remedies  more  cthcaciou* 
than  tlie  balsam  of  Fierahrus.  Macuulajf. 

Fifth  Doctor  of  the  Church.  A 
title  bestowed  upon  Thomas  Aqui- 
nas, the  most  celebrated  schoolman 
of  the  Middle  Ages.      See  Angelic 

DOCTOK. 

Fifth  Monarchy.  A  universal  mon- 
archy, which,  in  the  belief  of  a 
strange  religious  sect  of  England,  in 
the  time  of  the  Civil  War  and  the 
Protectorate,  was  to  succeed  the  fall 
of  the  Roman  Empire,  the  fourth  of 
the  four  great  monarchies  of  Anti- 
christ marked  out  by  the  prophet 
Daniel.  This  monarchy,  it  was  be- 
lieved, was  to  be  given  into  the  hands 
of  the  saints  of  the  Most  High ;  and, 
under  it,  all  the  forms  of  violence 
and  suffering  hitherto  attendant  on 
the  governments  of  this  world  were 
to  cease.  In  other  words,  it  was  to 
be  the  kingdom  of  Christ  on  earth. 
But  it  was  to  be  set  up  with  the 
sword,  and  the  usual  worldlv  expe- 
dients were  to  be  employed  for  the 
purpose  of  securing  partisans.  In 
politics,  the  Fifth  Monarchy  men 
were  republicans  of  the  extreniest 
views,  and  conspired  to  murder  the 
Protector  and  revolutionize  the  gov- 
ernment. It  is  said  that  they  actual- 
ly proceeded  to  elect  Jesi's  Christ 
king  at  London !  Cromwell  dis- 
persed them  in  1653. 

Figaro  (fe'ga'ro').  The  hero  of  Beau- 
marchais'  celebrated  comedies,  "  Le 
Barbier  de  Seville"  and  "  Le  Man- 
age de  Figaro."  In  the  first  of  these 
plays,  Figaro  is  a  barber;  in  the  sec- 
ond, a  valet-de-chambre.  In  both 
characters,  he  coolly  outwits  every 
one  with  whom  he  has  any  dealings. 
The  name  has  passed  into  common 


tnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


FIG 


134 


FLI 


speech,  and  is  used  to  designate  an 
intriguer,  a  go-between;  in  general, 
any  adroit  aiul  unscrupulous  person. 
Mozart,  Paesiello,  and  llossini  have 
made  Figaro  tiie  liero  of  operas. 

j^^  "  In  Figaro,  Bcaumarcliais  has 
personified  the  Cii  rs-i}t(tt,  superior  iu  wit, 
initustry.  and  activity  to  birth,  rank,  or 
fortune,  in  whose  hand  hes  the  political 
power  ;  so  that  the  idea  of  the  piece  is 
not  only  a  satirical  allej^ory  upon  the 
government  and  nobility  of  that  epoch, 
but  a  living  manifesto  upon  the  inequal- 
ity, just  or  unjust,  of  society."  Rose. 

fc'ighting  Prelate.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  Henrv  Spenser,  bishop  of  Norwich, 
in  the  reign  of  Richard  II.  During 
the  rebellion  of  Wat  Tyler,  he  dis- 
tinguislied  himself  by  his  decisive 
style  of  dealing  with  the  insurgents; 
first  meeting  them  in  the  tield,  and 
then,  when  he  had  routed  them,  ex- 
changing his  sword  and  armor  for  a 
crucifix  and  sacerdotal  robes,  and, 
thus  arrayed,  confessing  and  absolv- 
ing his  prisoners  as  he  iuirried  them 
to  the  gibbet.  In  1383,  he  v.-ent  over 
to  the  Continent  to  assist  the  burghers 
of  Ghent  in  their  contest  with  the 
Count  of  Flaiulers  and  the  French 
king,  and  in  support  of  the  cause  of 
Urban  VI.,  in  the  general  European 
war  excited  by  the  struggle  between 
that  pope  and' his  rival,  Clement  VII. 

The  Bishop  of  Norwich,  the  famous  Fight- 
ing Prelate,  jiad  led  an  army  into  Flanders. 
Beins;  oblisred  to  return,  with  discomfiture,  he 
had  been  charged  with  breach  of  the  condi- 
tions on  which  a  sum  of  money  was  granted 
to  him,  and  the  temporalities  of  his  see  were 
sequestered.  Lord  Campbell. 

Filomena,  St.     See  St.  Filomena. 

Finality  John.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  Lord  John  Paissell  (b.  1792),  a  dis- 
tinguished English  statesman,  and  an 
earnest  advocate  of  the  Reform  Bill 
of  1831,  which  he  regarded  as  a  "  fi- 
nality." 

Fin'gal,  or  Fin-gal'.  A  mythical 
hero,  whose  name  occurs  in  Gaelic 
ballads  and  traditions,  and  in  Mac- 
pherson's  "  Poems  of  Ossian." 

First  Gentleman  of  Europe  (9).  A 
title  given  by  many,  during  his  life- 
time, to  King  George  IV.  of  England 
(1762-1830),  on  account  of  his  posi- 
tion and  personal  attractions. 


First  Scotcti    Reformer.      A    title 

conferred  upon  Patrick  Hamilton 
(1503-1527),  who  was  burnt  at  the 
stake  tor  his  dissemination  of  Lu- 
theran doctrines. 

Fitz-Boo'dle,  George.  A  pseudo- 
nym undir  whicii  Thackeray  (1811- 
1803)  contributed  to  "'  Eraser's  Mag- 
azine "  a  variety  of  tales,  criticisms, 
descriptive  sketches,  and  verses,  all  of 
which  were  characterized  by  a  deli- 
cate irony,  a  profound  knowledge  of 
the  world,  and  a  playful  but  vigor- 
ous and  trenchant  style. 

Flam'bor-oughs,  The  Miss  (flam'- 
bCir-oz;.  Snobbish  female  charac- 
ters in  Goldsnuth's  novel,  "  The  Vic- 
ar of  Wakefield." 

Flan'ders,  Moll.  The  subject  of  Do 
Foe's  novel  of  the  same  name,  a  tale 
of  low  vice. 

Fle'3,n9e.  A  son  of  Banquo,  in  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of  "  Macbeth." 

Fle'ta.  A  Latinized  name  of  the  Fleet 
prison  in  London,  and  the  title  of  an 
ancient  law-book  written  by  an  un- 
known author  who  was  for  a  time 
confined  in  this  prison. 

Flib'ber-ti-gib/bet.  1.  The  name 
of  a  'fiend  mentioned  by  Edgar,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  King 
Lear." 

4£g=-  About  the  time  of  the  attempted 
Spanish  invasion  of  England,  some  Jes- 
uits, for  the  sake  of  making  converts, 
pretended  to  east  out  a  large  number  of 
evil  spirits  from  the  family  of  Mr.  Ed- 
mund Peckham,  a  Roman  Catholic.  By 
order  of  the  privy  council.  Bishop  Hars- 
net  wrote  and  published  a  full  account 
of  the  imposture.  Most  of  the  fiends 
mentioned  by  Edgar  are  to  be  found  in 
that  work. 

Frateretto,  Fliherdigibet,  Hoberdidance,  To- 
cobatto,  were  four  devils  of  the  round,  or 
niorice;  these  four  had  fortv  assistants  under 
them,  as  themselves  do  confesse. 

Harsnet,  Declaration  of  Egregious  Popish 
Iinjiosture^. 

This  is  the  foul  fiend  FUfibertigihtyet ;  he 
begins  at  curfew,  and  walks  till  the  tirst  cock; 
he  gives  the  web  and  the  pin,  squints  the  eve, 
and  makes  the  harelip,  mildews  the  white 
wheat,  and  hurts  ths  poor  creature  of  earth. 

Shak. 

Flihbertigibbet,  [the  fiend]  of  mopping  and 
mowing,  who  since  possesses  chamber-miids 
and  waiting-women.  Shak. 

2.  A  name  given  to  Dickon  Sludgy 


«a^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


FLO 


135 


FLY 


a  boy  who  figures  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  ol'  "  Kenilwortli,"  and 
acts  the  part  of  Jill  iiiij)  at  the  eiiter- 
taiunients  given  to  Queen  Elizabeth 
by  the  Earl  of  Leicester. 

Flo'ra(9).  {Rom.  Myth.)  The  goddess 
of  flowers  and  spring-time. 

Thou,  with  voice 
Mild,  as  when  Zephyriis  <m  Flora  breathes, 
Her  hand  soft  touching,  whispered  tlius. 

Milton. 

Flor'de-lice.  The  mistress  of  Bran- 
dimart,  in  Ariosto's  "  Orlando  Euri- 

OSO."      See'liKANDIMAKT. 

Flordespina  (flor-des-pe^nS),  or 
Flor'des-pine.  A  female  charac- 
ter in  Ariosto's  '"Orlando  Eurioso," 
daughter  of  Marsiglio. 

Flo-ren'ti-us.  A  knight  Avhose  story 
is  related  in  the  lirst  houk  of  Gower's 
"  Confessio  Amantis."  He  bound 
himself  to  marry  a  deformed  hag, 
provided  she  taught  him  the  solution 
of  a  riddle  on  which  his  litis  de- 
pended. 

Be  she  foul  as  was  Florentius'  love.         Shak. 

Flo'res.  The  lover  of  Blanchefleur 
in  Boccaccio's  "  Ehilopoco,"  and  in 
other  old  tales  and  poems.  See 
Blanciieflkuu. 

Flor'i-raeL  A  female  character  in 
ST)enser's  "  Eaery  C^ueen."  A  ma- 
Ijjpnant  Avitch  is  represented  as  hav- 
ing fabricated,  out  of  t^now,  tempered 
'•  with  tine  mercury  and  virgin  wax," 
a  counterfeit  Florimel  so  like  the  true 
one  that  it  was  next  to  impossible  to 
perceive  any  difi'erence  betAveen  them ; 
but,  on  being  placed  side  by  side,  — 

"  The  enchanted  damsel  vanished  into  naught; 
Her  snciwy  siibst.mce  melted  as  with  heat; 
Neofthnt' goodly  hue  rcninined  alight 
But  the  empty  "girdle  which  about  her  waist 
was  wrought." 

4®^  "  Her  name  is  compounded  of 
two  Latin  words  [j?of,  genitive  floris, 
and  mell  meaning  hoiify  and  flowers, 
thus  betokening  the  sweet  and  delicate 
elements  of  which  her  nature  is  molded. 
She  seems  to  express  the  gentle  delicacy 
and  timid  sensitiveness  of  woman  ;  and 
her  adventures,  the  perils  and  rude  en- 
counters to  which  those  qualities  are  ex- 
posed in  a  world  of  passion  and  violence. 
She  flees  alike  from  friend  and  fne,  and 
finds  treachery  in  those  upon  whom  she 
had  thrown  herself  for  protection  ;  and 
yet  ghe  is  introduced  to  us  under  circum- 


stances not  altogether  consistent  Arith 
feuiiniue  delicacy  ,  a«  having  left  the  court 
of  the  fairy  queen  in  jiursuit  (tf  a  knight 
Avho  did  not  even  returu  her  jias.'^ion." 

Gto.  S.  Hi  Hard. 
To  prove  the  whole  system  of  this  school 
absurd,  it  is  only  necessary  to  applv  the  test 
which  dissolved  the  enchanted  J- loriinel. 

Jilucuulay. 

Flor'is-mart.  The  name  of  one  of 
Charlemagne's  Twelve  Peers,  and 
the  faithful  friend  of  Orlando,  or 
Koland. 

Flor'i-zeL     A  prince  of  Bohemia,  in 

Shakes])eare's  "  Winter's  Tale,"  in 
love  with  Perdita.     See  Perdita. 

Flour  City.  A  popular  de.«ignation, 
in  the  United  States,  tor  the  city  of 
IJochester,  New  York,  a  place  re- 
markable for  its  extensive  manufac- 
tories of  flour. 

FloA?v^er  City.  A  name  familiarly 
given  to  Springfield,  Illinois,  the 
capital  of  the  State.  It  is  distin- 
guished for  the  beauty  of  its  en- 
Airons. 

Flower  of  Chivalry.  A  name  given 
by  his  contemporaries  to  William 
of  Douglas,  lord  of  Liddesdale,  in  the 
fourteenth  century. 

Flower  of  Kings.  [Lat.  Flos  Be- 
(/iim.]  A  name  applied  to  Arthur, 
the  renoAvned  and  half-fabulous  king 
of  ancient  Britain; — first  given  to 
him  by  Joseph  of  Exeter,  a  ]>atin 
poet  of  the  twelfth  century. 

Flower  of  Poets.  A  title  conferred 
upon  Chaucer  by  his  contemporaries. 

Flowery  Kingdom.  A  translation 
of  the  words  Nu-a  Kiroh^a.  name  olten 
giA'en  to  China  by  the  inhabitants^ 
who  consider  themseh'es  to  be  the 
most  polished  and  civilized  of  all 
nations,  as  the  epithet  hwa  intiniates. 

Flti-el'len.  A  Welsh  captain  Avho  is 
an  amusing  pedant,  in  Shakespeare's 
historical  play  of  "Henry  Y." 

Lord  Mahon  will  find,  we  think,  that  his 
parallel  is,  in  all  essential  circumstances,  a* 
incorrect  as  thnt  which  Fluellen  drew  between 
Macedon  and  Monmouth.  Macaulay. 

The  architect  worked  hard  for  weeks 
In  venting  all  his  private  peaks 
I'pon  the  roof,  whose  crop  of  leaks 
Had  satisfied  Fiuellen.  Loivell. 

Flying  Dutchman.  The  name  given 
by  sailors  to  a  spectral  .ship,  Avhich 


and  for  the  Bemarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxzii. 


FLY 


136 


FOO 


is  supposed  to  cruise  in  storms  off  the 
Cape  of  (Jood  ilope,  and  the  sight  of 
Avhich  is  considered  tlie  Avorst  of  all 
possible  omens.  She  is  distinguished 
from  earihly  vessels  by  bearing  a 
press  of  sail  when  all  others  are  un- 
able, from  stress  of  weather,  to  show 
an  inch  of  canvas.  The  cause  other 
"wandering  is  variously  explained: 
according  to  one  account,  a  Dutch 
captain,  bound  home  from  the  Indies, 
met  with  long-continued  head-winds 
and  heavy  weather  ott"  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  and  refused  to  put  back 
as  he  was  a  Ivised  to  do,  swearing  a 
ver}'  profane  oath  that  he  Avould  beat 
round  the  Cape,  if  he  had  to  beat 
there  until  tlie  Day  of  Judgnu^nt.  He 
was  taken  at  his  word,  and  doomed 
to  beat  against  head-winds  all  his 
days.  His  sails  are  believed  to  have 
become  thin  and  sere,  his  ship's  sides 
white  with  age,  and  himself  and  crew 
reduced  almost  to  shadows.  He  can- 
not heave  to,  or  lower  a  boat,  but 
sometimes  hails  vessels  through  his 
trumpet,  and  requests  them  to  take 
letters  home  for  him.  Dr.  John 
Leyden,  who  introduces  the  story 
of  the  Flying  Dutchman  into  his 
"  Scenes  of  Infancy,"  imputes,  with 
poetical  ingenuity,  tbe  doom  of  the 
ship  to  its  having  been  the  first  to 
engage  in  the  slave-trade.  But  the 
commoii  tradition  is,  as  stated  by 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  "that  she  was 
originally  a  vessel  loaded  with  great 
wealth,  on  board  of  which  some 
horrid  act  of  murder  and  ])iracy  had 
been  committed;  that  tlie  plague 
broke  out  among  the  wicked  crew, 
who  had  perpetrated  the  crime,  and 
that  they  sailed  in  vain  from  jiort  to 
port,  ottering,  as  the  price  of  shelter, 
the  whole  of  their  ill-gotten  wealth; 
that  they  were  excluded  from  every 
harbor,  for  fear  of  t!ie  contagion  which 
was  devouring  them;  and  that,  as  a 
punishment  of  their  crimes,  the  ap- 
parition of  the  ship  still  continues  to 
haunt  tho-^e  seas  in  wliich  the  catas- 
trophe took  place."  Tlie  superstition 
has  its  origin,  probablv,  in  the  loom- 
ing, or  apparent  snspen-;ion  in  the 
air,  of  some  ship  out  of  sight,  —  a 
phenomenon  sometimes  witnessed  at 


sea,  and  caused  by  unequal  refrac- 
tion in  the  lower  strata  of  the  at- 
mosphere. Marryatt's  novel  entitled 
"  The  I'hantom  Ship "  is  founded 
upon  this  legend. 

That  Phuiitoin  Ship,  whose  form 
Shoots  like  a  iiietc-or  throug;h  tho  storm; 
When  tlie  dirk  scud  comes  drivin-^  hard, 
And  lowered  is  every  to|)-sail  vard, 
And  cnnvas,  wove  in  earthly  fooms. 
No  more  to  brave  the  storm  "presumes; 
Then,  'mid  the  war  of  sea  and  sky, 
Top  and  t'ip-jr;illant  hoisted  hi^rh', 
Full-spread  and  crowded  every  sail. 
The  JJemon  Frifrate  braves  the  pale; 
And  well  the  doomed  spectators  know 
The  harbinger  of  wreck  and  woe. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 
Let  this  simple  word  [No,  in  answer  to  a 
claim  for  "recoirnition  "  on  the  part  of  the 
"  Confedenite  States"]  be  uttered,  and  the 
audacious  Slave-Power  will  be  no  better  than 
tlie  Fh/h)g/Jutrfiiiititt,  that  famous  craft,  which, 
darkened  by  piracy  and  murder,  was  doomed 
to  a  perpetual  cruise,  unable  to  enter  a  port. 
C/mrlt--'  Sumner. 

Flying  Highwayman.  A  sobriquet 
given  to  \\'illiam  Harrow,  a  noted 
high wav  robber,  executed  at  Hertford 
(Eng.),\Mar.h  28,  17f>3.  He  Avas  so 
called  from  his  practice  of  leaping  his 
horse  over  the  turnpikes,  Aviiich  en- 
aljled  him  for  a  time  to  escape  detec- 
tion. 

Foible.  An  intriguing  lady's-maid  in 
Congreve's  "  Way  of  the  World," 
who  plays  her  mistress  false. 

Foi'gard.  A  mendacious  and  h}-po- 
critical  priest,  in  Farquhar's  "  Beaux' 
Stratagem,"  who  acts  the  part  of  a 
pimp. 

"We  remember  no  Friar  Dominic,  no  Father 
Foir/ard  y».ino\v^  the  eh  'racters  drawn  bv  those 
great  poets  [the  dramatists  of  th«  Fli  ■^-.ihothaii 
age].  JIacauluy. 

Fondle"wlfe.     An  uxorious  banker  in 

Congreve's  "  Old  Bachelor." 

Fontainebleau,  Decree  of.  See 
Di:ci;ee  ui-"  Fuxtaixkuleal". 

Fool,  Tom.  A  popular  nickname  for 
a  Ibol,  or  foolish  person. 

j^^  '' Enslislimen  bestowed  upon  Kent 
the  reproach  taat  the  tails  cut  from 
Beckot's  mules  Ity  his  enemit  s  had  been 
transferred  to  themselves,  and  foreigners 
extenled  the  impntariou  to  the  whole 
nation,  insomuch  that,  as  Joinville  tells 
us.  t.ie  stout  Eirl  of  Salisbury  wnd  hLs 
men  were  oroaded  on  to  perish  in  their 
last  fitil  char'^e  on  the  hanks  of  the  Nile 
bv  the  French  scofT  t'.iat  they  wonM  not 
tike  the  front  lest  t.ieir  tails  should  be 
detected.     It  is  just  po.<.sil>le  that   Tom 


For  the  "  Key  to   the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


TOO 


137 


FOR 


Fool  may  be  connected  with  tliis  story, 
tliougli  more  ))rub;ibly  with  some  jester 
of  forgotten  fame."'  Yonf^e. 

The  ancient  iiTitl  noble  family  of  Tom  Fool, 
whii'li  has  ohtuiiieil  sucli  pic-cniinencc  aiul 
divinity  in  Church  and  State  throughout  all 
Christendom.  Qu.  llco. 

Pools'  Paradise.     See  Limbo. 

Foot-breadth.  The  sword  of  Thoralf 
Skoliuson  the  Strong,  a  couipaniou  of 
of  llako  I.  of  Norway,  distinguished 
for  his  strength  and   bravery.     See 

QUERN-BITEK. 

Fop'ping-ton,  Lord.  An  empty  cox- 
conil),  intent  only  on  dress  and  faf  h- 
ion,  in  Yanbrugh's  comedy,  "  The 
Rehipse." 

The  shoe-makor  in  "  The  Relapse"  tells 
Lord  Fojtpimjtoii  tlint  his  hudship  is  mistaken 
in  supposing  that  his  shoe  pinches. 

Macaula)/. 

Ford,  Master.  A  jealous  gentleman 
dwelling  at  Windsor,  in  Shake- 
speare's comedy  of  "  The  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor." 

Ford,  Mrs.  One  of  the  "  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor,"  in  Shakespeare's 
play  of  that  name.  Sir  John  KalstatF 
is  in  love  with  her,  and  she  encom-ages 
his  attentions  for  a  time,  in  order  to  be- 
tray and  disgrace  him.  See  Bkook, 
Master. 

Forest  City.  1.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  Cleveland,  Ohio,  from  the 
many  ornamental  trees  with  Avhich 
the  streets  are  bordered. 

2.  A  name  given  to  Portland, 
Maine,  a  city  distinguished  for  its 
many  elms  and  other  beautiful  shade- 
trees. 

3.  A  name  given  to  Savannah, 
Georgia,  the  streets  of  Avhich  are 
closely  shaded  with  pride  -  of- India 
{Maryosa  Azedariik)  trees. 

Forester,  Fanny.  A  nam  de  plume 
of  .Aliss  Emily  Ohubbuck  (1817-18.34), 
a  pojjular  American  authoress,  after- 
ward the  wi:'e  of  Adoniram  Judson, 
the  missionary. 

Forester,  Frank.  A  pseudonym  un- 
der which  Henry  William  ilerbert 
(18:)7-18.-J8),  a  versatile  English 
author,  long  resident  in  America, 
published  a  number  of  works  on 
fowling,  fishing,  and  field-sports  in 
general. 


For'nax.  {Rom.  Afyth.)  A  goddess 
of  corn,  and  the  patroness  of  bakers. 

Forseti  (ibpsa-tee).  [Old  Norse,  pres- 
ident, Irom  Jor^  before,  and  sltja^  to 
sit.]  {Scaml  Myth.)  The  god  of 
justice,  a  son  of  Ualdur.  [Written 
also   Forsete.] 

For'tin-brSs.  Prince  of  Norway,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Hamlet." 

For-tu'nS.  {Rom.  Myth.)  The  god- 
dess of  chance  or  luck,  particularly 
of  good  luck,  success,  and  prosperity; 
said  to  be  blind. 

Fortunate  Islands.  See  Islands  of 
THE  Blest. 

For^tu-na'tus.  The  hero  of  a  German 
popuhir  romance  of  the  lilteenth  cen- 
tury, based  upon  legends  of  an  earlier 
date. 

;6£g=  The  story  recounts  how,  when  he 
had  been  exposed  to  preat  dangers  from 
wild  beasts,  and  was  in  a  state  of  starva- 
tion, he  suddenly  beheld  a  beautiful  lady 
standing  by  his  side,  with  a  bandage  over 
her  eyes,  leaning  upon  a  wheel,  and  look- 
ing as  if  she  were  going  to  speak.  The 
lady  did  not  wait  long  before  she  ad- 
dressed him  in  these  words:  '-Know, 
young  man,  that  my  name  is  Fortune.  I 
have  power  to  bestow  wisdom,  strength, 
riches,  health,  beauty,  and  long  life.  One 
of  these  I  am  willing  to  bestow  on  you. 
Choose  for  yourself  which  it  shall  he." 
Fortunatus  immediately  answered,  "Good 
lady,  I  wish  to  have  riclies  in  such  plenty 
that  I  may  never  again  know  what  it  is 
to  be  so  hungry  as  I  now  find  myself." 
The  lady  then  gave  him  a  pnr?e,and  told 
him,  tliat,  in  all  the  countries  wheie  lie 
might  happen  to  be,  lie  need  only  put  his 
hand  into  the  purse,  as  often  as  he 
pleased,  and  he  would  be  sure  to  find  in 
it  pieces  of  gold  ;  that  the  purse  should 
never  fail  of  yielding  the  same  sum  as 
long  as  it  should  lie  kept  by  himself  and 
children.  Tt  is  further  relateit,  that  a 
certain  sultan  led  Fortunatus  to  a  room 
almost  filled  with  jewels,  opened  a  large 
closet,  and  took  out  a  cap,  which  he  said 
was  of  greater  value  than  all  the  rest. 
Fortunatus  thought  the  sultan  was  jok- 
ing, and  told  liim  he  had  seen  many  a 
better  cap  than  that.  "  Ah,"'  said  the 
sultan,  "■  that  is  because  you  do  not  know 
its  value.  Whoever  puts  this  cap  on  liia 
head,  and  wishes  to  be  in  any  part  of  the 
world,  will  find  himself  there  in  a  mo- 
ment."' The  story  has  a  moral  ending, 
inasnuich  as  the  posses-ion  of  tliis  inex- 
haustible purse  and  wishiug-eap  are  the 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


FOR 


138 


FRA 


cause  of  niin  to  FortunatiiP,  and  to 
his  sous  alter  him.  The  subject  was 
dramatized  hy  Ilaus  Saetis  iu  l;jy3,  aud 
by  Thouia.sDekkcriu  liis  "  IMeasaut  Coui- 
edie  of  Old  Fortuuatus  "  (ItjUO);  aud  iu 
moderu  times  it  has  been  poetically  treat- 
ed by  Ludwig  Tieck  iu  his  "  I'hautasus  " 
(181G). 

With  a  miraculous  Fortunatux's  purse  in  his 
treasury,  it  might  have  lasted  longer. 

Carl>/7e. 

Por-tu'ni-o  (G).  The  hero  of  a  pop- 
ular tale,  clo!^ely  allied  to  that  of  For- 
tunatus,  —  with  whom  he  is  perhaps 
identical,  —  but  which  has  generally 
been  treated  as  an  independent  story. 
He  is  famcHis  for  his  adventure  with 
a  dragon,  in  the  pursuit  of  Avhich  he 
made  use  of  those  marvelous  servitors. 
Fine-ear,  who,  "  putting  his  ear  to 
the  ground,  informed  his  master  that 
the  dragon  Avas  seven  leagues  olf;" 
Tippler,  who  "  drank  up  all  the  rivers 
which  were  between;"  Strong-back, 
who  ''  carried  Avine  enough  to  fill 
them  all ;  "  Light-foot,  Boisterer,  and 
Gormand. 

Forty  Thieves.  Characters  of  a  cele- 
brated tale  in  the  "  Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments,"  represented  as  in- 
habiting a  secret  cave  in  a  forest,  the 
door  of  Avhich  Avould  open  and  shut 
only  at  the  sound  of  the  magic  word 
"  Sesame," — the  name  of  a  kind  of 
grain.     See  Baba,  All 

Ali  Baba,  when  lie  entered  the  cave  of  the 
Forty  Tbicvex,  cfnikl  not  liave  been  move 
amazed  by  tlie  wealth  of  its  contents  thrn 
some  people  will  be  when  they  fi-pt  rend  the 
title  of  this  book.  Putnam's  Mug. 

Forwards,  Marshal.    See  Marshal 

FoKAVAKDS. 

Foul-weather  Jack.  A  name  giA-en 
to  Commodore  Byron  (1723-178G), 
by  the  men  Avho  sailed  under  him,  in 
allusion  to  his  ill  fortune  at  sea. 

Fountain  of  Life.  A  title  given  to 
Alexander  Hales,  an  English  friar  of 
the  thirteenth  century,  and  a  distin- 
guished schoolman.  He  Avas  more 
commonly  styled  The  Irrefvagnhle 
Doctor. 

Fountain  of  Youth.  A  miraculous 
fountain,  Avhose  AvatorsAvcre  fabled  to 
haA'e  the  property  of  rencAving  youth. 
See  BiMiNi. 

Four  Masters,  The.  [Lat.  Quatuor 
Jlagidri.]      A   name  given   to   the 


authors  of  an  ancient  Irish  history 
called  "  The  Annals  of  Donegal." 
Their  names  Avere  Michael  O'Clerigh, 
or  Clerk,  Maurice  and  Fearfeafa 
Conry,  and  Cucoirighc,  or  Peregrine, 
O'Clerighe. 

Fra  Diavolo.  (frS  de-a'A'o-lo).  [It., 
Brother  De\'il.]  A  sobriquet  of 
Michele  Pezza  (1760-1806),  a  native 
of  Calabria.  According  to  some  ac- 
counts, he  Avas  in  early  life  a  goat- 
herd, afterAvard  a  monk,  under  the 
name  of  Fra  Ant/tlo.  Others  say  that 
he  Avas  apprenticed  to  a  stockinger. 
Escaping  trom  the  Avorkshop  or  the 
monasteiy,  he  joined  himself  to  a 
band  of  robbers,  of  Avhich  he  soon 
became  the  leader.  On  the  arrival 
of  the  French,  he  declared  for  the 
king  of  Naples,  and  in  171)1)  receiAed 
pardon  and  office  from  Cardinal  Bufto, 
organized  his  band,  and  made  an 
incursion  into  the  Konian  territory. 
Subsequently  he  repaired  to  Palermo, 
Avhere  he  took  part  in  an  insurrection 
under  the  leadership  of  Commodore 
Sidney  Smith.  Being  taken  prisoner 
by  treachery  at  San  Severino,  he  Avas 
hanged  at  Naples,  Nov.  1806,  not- 
Avithstanding  the  intercession  of  the 
English  on  his  behalf,  prompted  by 
respect  for  his  militarv'  proAvess.  He 
has  been  made  the  subject  of  various 
traditions  and  songs,  and  of  an  opera 
by  Auber,  entitled  "  Fra  Diavolo,"  in 
Avhich,  hoAvever,  nothing  of  the  char^ 
acter  but  the  name  has  been  retained. 

Fran-ces'ea  of  Rim'i-ni  (//.  pron. 
fran-ches'ka).  A  daughter  of  Guido 
da  Polenta,  lord  of  Kavenna  in  tha 
latter  part  of  the  thirteenth  century. 
She  Avas  married  to  Lanciotto,  son 
of  Malatesta  da  Kimini,  a  brave  but 
deformed  and  hateful  person,  Avho, 
liaA'ing  discoA'ered  a  criminal  in- 
timacy betAveen  her  and  his  own 
brother,  reA-engcd  himself  by  putting 
them  both  to  death.  The  story  of 
Francesca  forms  one  of  the  most  ad- 
mired episodes  in  Dante's  "  Inferno," 
and  has  also  been  made  the  subject 
of  a  poem  by  Leigh  Hunt. 

Frank'en-stein.  A  monster,  in  ^Irs. 
Shelley's  romance  of  the  same  name, 
constructed  by  a  young  student  of 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciatioa,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanatioua, 


FRA 


139 


FRE 


physiology  out  of  the  horrid  rem- 
nants of  tlie  fhurch-yurd  ami  dissect- 
ing-room,  and  endued,  apparently 
tiirough  the  agency  of  galvanism, 
with  a  sort  of  spectral  and  convulsive 
life.  This  existence,  rendered  insup- 
portable to  the  monster  by  his  vain 
craving  at'ter  human  sympathy,  and 
by  his  consciousness  of  his  own  de- 
formity, is  employed  in  inflicting  the 
most  dreadful  retribution  upon  the 
guilty  philosopher. 

It  [the  Southern  "  Confederacy  "]  will  be  the 
soulU'ss  monster  of  FranhcuMria, —  the  wretch- 
ei  creation  of  mortal  s-cieiice  witliout  God; 
endowed  with  life  and  nothing  else;  for  ever 
niinng  madly,  the  scandal  to  humanity;  pow- 
erfulonly  for  evil;  whose  destruction  will  be 
essential  to  the  peace  of  the  world. 

Charles  Sumner. 

Frat'er-et'to.  The  name  of  a  fiend 
mentitmed  by  Edgar,  in  Shake- 
speare's  tragedy   of  "  King   Lear." 

See  FUBBEUTIGIBBET,  1. 

Free-born.  John.  John  Lilburne 
(IfJ  13-1657),  a  famous  English  repub- 
lican;—  popularly  so  called  on  ac- 
count of  his  intrepid  defense,  before 
the  tribunal  of  tlie  Star  Chamber,  of 
his  rights  as  a  free-born  Englishman. 

Presman,  Mrs.  An  assumed  name 
undt-r  which  the  Duchess  of  Marl- 
borough corresponded  with  Queen 
Anne.     See  Mokley,  Mks. 

Preeport,  Sir  Andrew.  The  name 
of  one  of  the  meml>ers  of  the  imagi- 
nary club  under  whose  auspices  the 
"Spectator"  was  professedly  is- 
sued. He  is  represented  as  a  Lon- 
don merchant  of  great  eminence  and 
experience,  industrious,  sensible,  and 
generous. 

Freestone  State.  The  State  of  Con- 
necticut;—  sometimes  so  called  from 
the  quarries  of  freestone  which  it  con- 
tains. 

Freischatz  (fri'shiits,  51).  [Ger.,  the 
fr^e-shooter  ;  Fr.  Robin  des  Bois.] 
The  name  of  a  legendary  hunter,  or 
marksman,  who,  by  entering  into  a 
compact  with  the  Devil,  procures 
balls,  six  of  which  infallibly  hit, 
however  great  the  distance,  while  the 
seventh,  or,  according  to  some  of  the 
versions,  one  of  the  seven,  belongs 
to  the  Devil,  who  directs  it  at  his 
pleasure.      Legends    of   this   nature 


were  rife  among  the  troopers  of  Ger- 
many of  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth 
centuries,  and  during  the  Thirty 
Years'  war.  The  slory  first  ap- 
peared in  a  poetic  form  in  1810,  in 
Apel's  "■  Gespensterbuch  "  ("Ghost- 
book"),  and  F.  Kind  adapted  the  story 
to  the  opera  conipo.-^ed  by  Weber  in 
1821,  which  has  inade  it  known  in 
all  civilized  countries.  Pierer, 

French.  Devil.  An  opprobrious  title 
given  by  the  English,  Dutch,  and 
Spanish  to  Jean  Barth,  or  Bart  (1651- 
1702),  a  French  naval  hero  cele- 
brated for  his  boldness  and  success 
in  battle. 

French  Fa'bi-us.  A  surname  be- 
stowed upon  Anne  (1493-1567),  first 
Duke  of  iMontmorency,  grand  con- 
stable of  France,  on  account  of  his 
success  in  nearly  destroying  the  im- 
perial army  which  had  invaded  Pro- 
vence, by  the  pohcy  of  laying  waste 
the  country  and  skillfully  prolong- 
ing the  campaign.  See  Amkkican 
Fa  15 1  us. 

French  Fury.  (ITist.)  A  name  given 
to  the  attempt  made  by  the  l)uke  of 
Anjou  to  carry  Antwerp  by  storm, 
Jan.  17, 1583.  The  whole  of  his  force 
was  eitiier  killed  or  taken  captive  in 
less  than  an  hour. 

French  Phid'i-as.  1.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Jean  Goujon  (d.  1572), 
a  celebrated  Parisian  sculptor  and 
architect,  in  the  reigns  of  Irancis  L 
and  Henry  IL 

2.  A  title  conferred  upon  Jean 
Baptiste  Pigalle  (1714-1785),  an  emi- 
nent French  sculptor;  but  not  hap- 
pily, as  his  taste  cannot  be  said  to 
be  classical. 

French  Pin'dar.  A  title  bestOAved 
upon  Jean  Dorat,  a  French  poet  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  Charles  IX. 
created  expres.sly  for  him  the  office 
of  Puete  Roynl.  He  died  at  Paris  in 
1582,  aged  80  years. 

French  Raph'i-el.  A  title  conferred 
upon  Eustace  Le  Sueur  (1617-1655), 
a  distinguished  French  painter. 

French  Ros'ci-us  (rosh'i-us).  Mi- 
chael Baron  (1053-1727),  a  celebrated 
French  actor. 


uid  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-jucxii. 


FRE 


140 


FRI 


French  Solomon.    See  Solomon  of 

I'liA.NCK. 

French  Tl-bullus.  [Fi .  Le  TlbuUe 
Fniiii^dis.]  A  suniani  ^  given  to 
Evariste  Oesire  Dcslorgc:,  Chevalier 
de  Parny  (1753-18U),  a  i-'reucii 
elegiac  and  erotic  poet. 

Fres'ton.  An  enchanter  or  necro- 
mancer who  ligures  in  many  terrible 
scenes  of  the  old  romance  of  "  Don 
Belianis  of  Greece." 

Not  Muniatnn,  but  Frenfon,  von  should 
have  Slid,  cried  Don  Quixote.  iVuly,  quoth 
the  niece,  I  can't  tell  whether  it  wiis'/'z-e.-t/ow, 
or  Friston,  but  sure  I  aui  tliat  hi.s  name 
ended  with  a  "  ton."  Ct'ri-aiilei<,  Tratvs. 

Frey  (fri,  42).  {Scmul  M;ilh.)  The 
god  of  the  .sun  and  of  rain,  and  hence 
of  fertility  and  peace,  lie  was  one 
of  the  most  popular  of  the  Northern 
divinities.     [  Written  also  F  r  e  y  r.] 

Freyja  (fr!/ya).  {Scnnd.  Mijih.)  The 
godde.ss  of  love,  beauty,  pleasure,  and 
fecundity.  She  was  the  sister  of 
I'rey,  and  the  wife  of  Odur,  who  aban- 
doned her  on  her  loss  of  youth  and 
beauty,  and  was  changed  into  a  statue 
by  Odin,  as  a  punishment.  [Writ- 
ten also  F  r  e  y  i  a  and  F  r  e  y  a.] 

Friar  Dom'i-nic.  The  chief  person- 
age in  Dryden's  play,  "  The  Spanish 
Friar,"  de.signed  to  ridicule  the  vices 
of  the  priesthood.  It  is  the  best  of 
his  comic  characters. 

Friar  GSr'und.  The  hero  of  a  cele- 
brated Spanish  satirical  i"omance  by 
Padre  Isla  (ITO-'J-lTSl).  designed  to 
ridicule  the  style  of  ))ulpit  oratory  in 
A'ogue  in  his  day,  —  oratory  degraded 
by  bad  taste,  by  conceits,  puns,  and 
tricks  of  composition,  and  even  by 
low  buffoonery,  indulged  in  merely 
to  win  the  applause  and  increase  the 
contributions  of  vulgar  audiences. 
"  The  famous  preacher,  Friar  Ger- 
mid,"  is  one  of  these  ])opular  orators; 
and  Isla  describes  his  life  from  his 
birth  in  an  obscure  village,  through 
his  education  in  a  fashionable  con- 
vent, and  his  adventures  as  a  mission- 
ary about  the  country,  the  tiction 
ending  abruptly  with  his  preparation 
to  deliver  a  course  of  sermons  in  a 
citv  that  seems  intended  to  represent 
Madri.l. 

Friar  John.     The  name  of  one  of  the 


most  celebrated  characters  in  Rabe- 
lais' romance  of  "  I'antagruel." 

t^iy-  '•  Throughout  the  book,  he  dashes 
on,  regardless  ot  every  tiling  in  tins  world 
or  the  next.  If  there  is  a  snij) wreck  or  a 
skiruiish,  Friar  John  is  Ibreuiost  iu  the 
bustle  ;  tear  is  unknown  to  hiiu ;  if  a 
juke  more  than  usually  profane  is  to  be 
uttered,  t'riar  Johu  is  the  .«iiokesujau. 
The  .swe.iriug.  bulking  phni.-e.-.  are  all 
put  iu  the  mouth  of  Iriar  John.  Rabe- 
lais loved  this  lustj'  friar,  this  nia^s  of 
lewdness,  debauchery,  profanity,  and 
valor.  He  is  the  '  fine  fellow '  of  the 
book  ;  arid  the  author  always  seenis  in  a 
good  humor  when  he  makes  him  fcilk." 
For.   Qii.  Rev. 

And  a.s  to  a  dinner,  they  can  no  more  do 
■without  him  than  they  could  without  Friar 
Jiilni  at  the  roistering  reveLi  of  the  renowned 
Paut;igruel.  W.  Iniiijj. 

Then  came  the  Rebellion,  and,  presto  !  a 
flaw  iu  our  titles  was  discovered,  .  .  .  and  we 
were  ...  no  relations  of  theirs  after  all,  but  a 
dreggy  hybrid  of  the  basest  bloods  of  Europe. 
Panurge  wa-s  not  quicker  to  coll  J-'riur  Jo/m 
his  '•  former"  friend.  Lowell. 

Friar  Lau'rence.    A  Franciscan  who 

undertakes  to  marrs^  Romeo  and 
Juliet,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of 
that  name. 
Friar  Rush.  [Lat.  Frnter  Eauschuts, 
Ger.  Brudtr  Jiausch,  Dan.  Bivdtr 
Rhus.  His  name  signilies  either  noise, 
as  Grimm  thinks,  or,  ss  Wolf  deems, 
dfunki-nness.  Comp.  Old  Eng.  loust.] 
A  house-spirit,  celebrated  in  the  niar- 
velous  legends  of  old  times.  His 
history  Avas  printed  in  102(»,  and  had 
proljalvly  been  often  printed  before. 
The  whole  tale  is  designed  .is  a  severe 
satire  upon  the  monks,  the  pretended 
friar  being  sent  from  hell  in  conse- 
quence of  news,  brought  to  the  prince 
of  devils,  '*  of  the  great  misride  and 
vile  living  of  these  religious  men;  to 
keep  them  still  in  that  state,  and  worse 
if  it  might  be." 

Q  lis  nou  legit  quid  Frater  linuschiux  cjrit? 
liruuo  SeiucUus. 

Friar  Tuck.  One  of  the  constant 
associates  of  Robin  Hood,  to  whom 
Ben  Jonson  (in  his  "Sad  Shep- 
herd") makes  him  chaplain  and 
steward.  According  to  some,  he  was 
a  real  monk.  Sir  Walter  Scott  has 
introduced  him  in  "  Ivanhoe,"  with 
great  success,  as  the  Holy  Clerk  of 
Copmanhurst. 

Frib'ble  (-bl).     A  feeble-minded  cox- 


For  the  "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with    the  accoinpanyiiig  Explanations, 


FRI 


141 


FRO 


comb  in  Garrick's  farce  entitled  "  Miss 
in  her  Teens;  "  niucli  given  to  cod- 
dling himself,  and  "  sadly  troubled* 
with  weaiv  nerves." 

Cdiild  this  sad,  thou};htfiil  countenance  be 
tin-  siuiip  .  .  .  that  luid  hiukcd  out  ...  so 
bhifklv  divfsti'd  of  all  meaning,  or  resolutely 
expio'sivf  of  none,  in  Acres,  in  Fribolc,  and  a 
tliousiiud  agreeable  impertinences  ? 

CJiarks  Lantb. 

The  fashionable  FriMes  of  the  day,  the 
chat,  scandal,  and  anmsements  of  those  at- 
tending the  wells,  and  the  canting  hypocrisy 
of  some  sectarians,  are  deincted,  sometimes 
■with  indeliLacy,  but  always  with  force  and 
liveliness.  A'.  Chumbcrs. 

Friday,  Man.  The  name  of  a  yoinig 
Indian  -whom  Rol)inson  Crusoe  saved 
from  death  on  a  Friday,  and  kept  for 
a  companion  and  servant. 

Even  before  they  were  acquainted,  he  had 
admired  Usborne  in  .secret.  Now  he  was  his 
valet,  his  dog,  his  JIaii  Friday.        ThucLcruij. 

Friend  of  Man.  [Fr.  VAinl  clcs 
I/oiniius.]  A  name  popularlj-  given 
to  Victor  Ri()uetti,  Martinis  de  Alira- 
beau  (1715-178,)),  from  tlie  title  of 
one  of  his  works.  He  was  a  distin- 
guished political  economist,  and  was 
father  of  the  great  tribune,  Mirabeau. 

Frig'ga.  {Scnnd.  Mijlh.)  The  Avife 
of  Odin,  the  queen  of  the  gods,  and 
the  mother  of  Baldur,  Thor,  &c. 
She  sometimes  typities  the  earth,  as 
Odin  does  the  heavens.  The  xVnglo- 
Saxons  Avorshiped  her  as  Frta.  The 
name  survi\'es  in  Fr'uUuj. 

Fris'co-bal'do.  A  character  in  Dek- 
ker's  "  Honest  "Whore."  Hazlitt  pro- 
nounces it  perfect,  in  its  way,  as  a 
picture  of  a  broken-hearted  father 
with  a  sneer  on  his  lips  and  a  tear- 
drop in  his  eye. 

Frithiof  (frith'T-of,  o?-frith'y(;)f).  [Icel. 
Fn'fJIitJ/Jiifr,  peace-destroyer.]  The 
hero  of  an  ancient  Icelandic  "  saga," 
which  records  his  love  tor  the  beauti- 
ful Ingel)org,  the  daughter  of  a  petty 
Norwegian  king.  After  being  reject- 
ed by  the  brothers  of  Ingeborg,  and 
having  committed  various  acts  of  re- 
venge on  his  enemies,  he  comes  to 
the  court  of  the  old  King  Hring,  to 
Avhom  Ingeborg  has  been  married, 
and  is  received  with  kindness.  At  the 
death  of  her  husband,  Ingeborg  is 
married  to  her  lover,  who  accjuires 
with  her  hand  the  dominions  of  Hring, 


over  which  he  rules  prosperously 
to  the  end  of  his  days.  ihe  dis- 
tinguished Swedi.sh  poet,  liishop 
Tegncr,  has  made  use  of  this  myth 
as  the  groumlworlv  of  a  poem  of  his 
own  C  Frithjof's  haga"),  which  has 
obtained  a  -wide  rcjnitation,  and  has 
been  translated  into  various  modern 
languages.  [Written  also  Frith- 
jof.j 

Fritz,  Der  Alte  (def  ;iFta  frits).  [Ger., 
Old  Fritz,  Old  Fred.]  A  sobriquet 
given  by  the  Germans  to  Frederick 
1.(1712-178(3)  king  of  Prussia,  com- 
monly called  Frederick  the  Great. 

Frog,  "Nic.  A  sportive  collective 
n;ime  applied  to  the  Dutch,  'n\  Arbulh- 
not's  "  History  of  John  Bull." 

I  back  your  Mc  Frog  against  Mother  Par- 
tington. Socles  Ambrosia  am. 

Frol'lo,  Archdeacon  Claude  {Fr. 
pron.  kind  froldo').  A  noted  charac- 
ter in  Victor  Hugo's  "  Kotre-lJame 
de  Paris,"  absorbed  in  a  bcAvildering 
search  after  the  pliilosophers'  stone. 
He  has  a  great  repidation  ior  sanc- 
tity, but  falls  in  love  with  a  gypsy 
girl,  and  pursues  her  Avith  unrelent- 
ing persecution,  because  she  Avill  not 
yield  to  his  desires. 

Front  de  Bceuf.     See  Bgkuf,  Fro>;t 

DE. 

Frontino  (fron-te'no).  The  name 
given,  in  the  old  romances  of  chivalry, 
to  the  horse  of  lluggiero,  or  liogero. 

Go,  Rozinnnte,  ...  go  rear  thy  awful  front 
wherever  thou  pleasest,  secure  that  neither 
the  hipiiogrilfon  of  Astolpho,  northe  renowned 
I'roiifino,  which  Bradamante  purchased  at  so 
high  a  price,  could  ever  be  thought  thy  equal. 
VerLantcs,  Von  (^uijLOte. 

Frost,  Jack.  A  popular  personifica- 
tion of  fi'ost. 

/i<g='  Frost  is  the  name  of  a  dwarf  in  the 
Scaiidiiia\Man  mytliolog;y,  and  Ferguson 
suy;sests  that  our  nursery  hero,  .lack 
Frost,  may  be  derived  from  tliat  source. 

Froth.  1.  (Master.)  A  foolish  gentle- 
man, in  Shakespeare's  "■  Measure  for 
Measure."  His  name  explains  his 
character,  which  is  Avithoiit  solidity 
enough  for  deep  crime,  and  fiar  too 
liglit  for  A'irtue. 

AVe  have  dealt  with  the  tale  very  much  ac- 
cording to  the  clown's  argument  in  fuvor  of 
Master  F'roth  :  "  Look  upon  his  face.    I  '11  be 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


FUD 


142 


FITS 


BWorTi  npon  a  bonk  thnt  liis  fare  is  the  wnrst 
part  about  him;  and  if  his  f'upc  be  the  worst 
part  abiuit  him,  Iikw  could  ^tlL■<tl  r  Froth  do 
the  constable's  wile  any  harm  ;• "    iSir  ir.  Scott. 

2.  (Lord.)  A  solemn  coxcomb, 
in  Congreve's  comedy  of  "  The 
Double  Dealer." 

Fudge,  Mr.  A  contemptuous  desig- 
nation l)estowed  upon  any  absurd  or 
lying  writer  or  talker.     See  Buk- 

CHELL,  Mk. 

flGg=  "  There  was,  sir,  in  our  time,  one 
Captain  Fudge,  commander  of  a  mer- 
chantman, who.  upon  his  return  from  a 
voyage,  how  ill  fraught  .soever  his  ship 
was.  alsvays  brought  home  to  his  owners 
a  good  cargo  of  /'V5,  insomuch  that  now 
aboard  ship  the  sailors,  when  they  hear  a 
great  lie  told,  cry  out,  '  You  fm/o^f  it.'  '' 
Jxei/iarks  ii/)on  l/if  Nnri/  (London,  1700). 
"  III  the  ye;ir  16(>4,  we  were  sentenced  for 
banishment  to  .lamaica  by  .Judges  Hyde 
and  Twisden.  and  our  number  was  5.5. 
We  were  put  on  board  the  ship  Black 
Eagle  ;  the  master's  name  was  Fmlge,  by 
Bome  called  Lying  Fudge."  A  CoUertinn 
of  soine  Papers  of  WilUam  Crouch.  (8vo, 
1712). 

A^  "  With  a  due  respect  to  their  an- 
tiquity, and  the  unchanged  reputation 
always  attached  to  the  name,  we  have 
long  held  in  high  consideration  the  an- 
cient t;imily  of  Fudges.  Some  of  them, 
as  we  know,  liave  long  reside'!  in  England, 
and  have  been  ever  ready  to  assi.st  in  her 
domestic  squabbles  and  political  changes. 
But  their  fivorite  place  of  residence  we 
understand  to  be  in  Ireland.  Their  usual 
modes  of  expression,  indeed,  are  akin  to 
the  figurative  talk  of  the  Emerald  island- 
ers." Brit,  if  For.  Kev. 

Fudge  Family.  A  name  under  which 
the  poet  Moore,  in  a  series  of  metrical 
epistles,  purporting  to  be  written  by 
the  members  of  a  family  of  English 
tourists  visiting  Paris,  satirized  the 
absurdities  of  his  traveling  country- 
men, Avho,  having  l)een  long  confined 
at  home  by  the  wars  waged  b}^  Na- 
poleon, flocked  to  the  continent  in 
swarms,  after  his  defeat  at  Waterloo. 
The  family  is  composed  of  a  hack 
writer  and  spy,  devoted  to  legitimacy, 
the  Bourbons,  and  I^ord  Castlereagh; 
his  .son,  a  young  dandy  of  the  first 
•water ;  and  his  daughter,  a  senti- 
mental damsel,  rapturously  fond  of 
''  romance,  and  high  bonnets,  and 
^ladame  Le  Roy,"  m  love  with  a 
Parisian  linen-draper,  whom  she  has 


mistaken  for  one  of  the  Bourbons  in 

disguise.     There  is  also  a  tutor  and 

,     "poor   relation"    of    this    egregious 

family,  who  is  an  ardent  Bonapartist 

and  Irish  patriot. 

No  sooner  are  we  geated  at  the  gay  saloon 
in  Dessin's,  than  we  call,  like  Biddy  Fudge, 
for  "  French  pens  and  French  ink."" 

Jlrs.  Jameson. 

Funk,  Peter.  A  person  employed  al 
petty  auctions  to  bid  on  articles  put 
up  for  sale,  in  order  to  raise  their 
price ;  —  probably  so  called  from  such 
a  name  having  frequently  been  given 
wdien  articles  were  bought  in.  To 
funk,  or  funk  mtt,  is  a  vulgar  expres- 
sion, meaning  to  slink  away,  to  take 
one's  self  off.  In  some  localities,  it 
conveys  the  added  notion  of  great 
fear. 

S^^  "  By  thus  running  up  goods,  Peter 
is  of  great  service  10  the  auctioneers, 
though  he  never  pays  them  a  cent  of 
monej'.  Indeed,  it  is  not  his  intention  to 
purchase,  nor  is  it  that  of  the  auctioneer 
that  he  should.  Goods,  nevertheless,  are 
frequently  struck  off  to  him  ;  and  then 
tlie  salesman  cries  out  the  name  of  Mr. 
Smith,  Mr.  .lohni^on.  or  .some  other  among 
the  hundred  aliases  of  Peter  Funk,  as  the 
purchaser.  But  the  goods,  ou  such  oc- 
casions, are  always  taken  back  by  the 
auctioneer,  agreeably  to  a  secret  under- 
standing between  him  and  Peter.'' 

Asa  Greene. 

Furies.  [Lat.  Furice.']  {  Gr.  (|-  Rom. 
Jfj/t/t.)  The  three  goddesses  of  ven- 
geance, daughters  of  Acheron  and 
Nox.  They  were  armed  with  lighted 
torche.><,  their  heads  were  Avreathed 
with  snakes,  and  their  Avhole  ap- 
pearance was  terrific  and  appalling. 
Their  names  were  Alecto,  ]\Iega'ra, 
and  Tisiphone.  [Called  also  Erinnyes 
and  Eumenides-I 

Furioso,  Borabastes.    See  Bombas- 

TKS  Fui;n>so. 
Furioso,  Orlando.     See  Orl.vxdo. 

Fusberta  (ffHis-bef'ta.)  The  name  of 
the  sword  of  Kinaldo.  See  Bay.a  rd, 
2,  and  Rinaldo.  [Writtei/  alsc 
Frusberta,  Fushberta,  and 
Fl  obe  rge.] 

This  "  awful  sword,"  ns  the  comn.on  people 
term  it,  was  as  dear  to  htm  as  Durindana  ot 
Fushherin  to  their  respective  masters,  and  was 
nearly  as  formidable  to  his  enemies  as  those 
renowned  fidchions  proved  to  the  foes  of 
Christendom.  Sir  W.  Scott. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scbjeme  of  Fronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


GAB 


143 


GAM 


G. 


G^a'b^i-el.  [Heb.,  mighty  one  of  God.] 
The  name  of  an  angel  described  in 
the  Scriptures  as  charged  with  tlie 
ministration  of  comfort  and  sympatliy 
to  man.  He  was  sent  to  Daniel  to 
interpret  in  plain  words  the  vision  of 
the  ram  and  the  he-goat,  and  to  com- 
fort him,  atter  his  prayer,  with  the 
prophecy  of  the  "  seventy  weeks." 
(8ee  Dmi.  viii.  and  ix.}  In  the 
New  Testament  {Luke  i.),  he  is  the 
herald  of  good  tidings,  declaring  as 
he  does  the  coming  of  the  predicted 
Messiah,  and  of  liis  forerunner,  .b)hn 
the  Baptist.  In  the  ordinary'  tradi- 
tions, Jewish  and  Christian,  Gabriel 
is  spoken  of  as  one  of  the  seven  arch- 
angels. According  to  the  Kabbins, 
he  is  the  angel  of  death  for  the  people 
of  Israel,  whose  souls  are  intrusted  to 
his  care.  The  Talmud  describes  him 
as  the  prince  of  tire,  and  as  the  spirit 
who  presides  over  thunder,  and  the 
ripening  of  fruits.  Gabriel  has  the 
reputation,  among  the  Kabbins,  of 
being  a  distinguished  linguist,  hav- 
ing taught  Joseph  the  seventy  lan- 
guages spoken  at  Babel,  and  being, 
in  addition,  the  only  angel  who  could 
speak  Chaldee  and  Syriac.  The 
Mohammedans  hold  him  in  even 
greater  reverence  than  the  Jews.  He 
is  called  the  spirit  of  truth,  and  is 
believed  to  have  dictated  the  Koran 
to  Mohammed.  Milton  posts  him  at 
"  the  eastern  gate  of  Paradise,"  as 
"  chief  of  the  angelic  guards,"  keep- 
ing watch  there. 

Gads'Mll.  A  companion  of  Sir  John 
Falstatf,  in  the  First  Part  of  Shake- 
speare's "  King  Henry  IV," 

Ga'lier-is,  Sir.  A  brother  of  Sir 
Gawain,  and  a  knight  of  the  Round 
Table,  celebrated  in  old  romances  of 
chivalry. 

Gal'i-had,  Sir.  The  son  of  Lancelot 
of  the  Lake,  and  a  knight  of  the 
Round  Table,  remarkable  for  the 
purity  of  his  life.  His  successful  ad- 
ventures in  search  of  the    sangreal 


were  celebrated  by  the  old  romancers, 
and  have  been  made  the  subject,  in 
modern  times,  of  one  of  the  most  ex- 
quisite of  Tennyson's  minor  poems. 
[Written  also  G  a  1  a  a  d.] 

Galalon.     See  Gan. 

Gal'a-or.  A  brother  of  Amadis  do 
Gaul!  His  exploits  are  recounted  in 
the  romance  of  that  name. 

Ga-laph'ro-ne,  or  Gal'a-fron.  A 
king  of  Cathay,  and  father  of  An- 
gelica, in  Bojardo's  "  Orlando  Inna- 
morato,"  Ariosto's  "  Orlando  Furi- 
oso,"  and  other  romantic  poems  and 
tales  of  the  Carlovingian  cycle. 

GaPa-te'5.   [Gr.  raAareia.]  {  6V.  ^'  EoTtl. 

Myth.)  A  sea-nymph,  the  daugh- 
ter of  Nereus  and  Doris.  She  was 
passionately  loved  by  Polyphemus, 
but  her  own  afltections  were  bestowed 
upon  Acis.     See  Acis. 

Ga-la'tian.  A  character  in  the  Christ- 
mas gambols  of  the  olden  time. 

Gal'li-a.  The  ancient  Latin  name  of 
France,  often  used  in  modern  poetry. 

For  gold  let  GnUia's  legions  fight, 

Or  plunder's  bloody  gain; 
Unbribed,  unbought,  our  swords  we  draw, 
To  guard  our  king,  to  fence  our  law, 

Nor  shall  their  edge  be  vain. 

Sir   n^.  Scott. 

Galloping  Dick.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  Richard  Ferguson,  a  cele- 
brated highway  robber,  —  executed 
at  Aylesbury  "^(England),  April  4, 
1800,  —  on  account  of  his  bold  riding 
when  pursued. 

Galloway,  Fair  Maid  of.  See  Fair 
Maid  of  Galloway. 

Gammer  Gurton.  See  Gukton. 
Gammer. 

Gamp,  Mrs.  Sarah.  A  monthly  nurse 
who  is  a  prominent  cluiracter  in 
Dickens's  novel  of  "  Martin  Chuz- 
zlewit."  She  is  celebrated  for  her 
constant  reference  to  a  certain  Mrs. 
Harris,  a  purely  imaginary  person, 
for  whose  feigned  opinions  and  ut- 
terances she  professes  the  greatest 
respect,  in  order  to   give   the   mora 


tnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


GAN 


144 


GAR 


weipjht  to  her  own.  See  Harris, 
Mits. 
Gan  (j,^an),  Ganelone  (fjft-nu-lo'nS), 
Ganelon  (g-.1ii'lo"',  ()2),  or  Gano 
(ga^iio).  A  count  of  Alayence,  and 
one  (if  the  paUidius  of  (.'harlenia<^ne, 
by  whom  lie  is  perpetually  trusted, 
and  whom  he  perpetually  betrays; 
always  represented  as  engaged  in 
machinations  for  the  destruction  of 
Christianity.  Spite,  patience,  obsti- 
nacy, dissimulation,  ahected  humility, 
and  inexliaustil)le  jiowers  of  intrigue 
are  the  chief  elements  of  his  charac- 
ter. He  tigures  in  the  romantic 
poems  of  Italy,  and  is  placed  by 
l)ante  in  his  Inferno.  See  Mak- 
siGLio.     [Written  also  G  a  1  a  1  o  n.] 

Have  you  not,  all  of  yoii,  helrl  me  at  such  a 

distaiict'"  from  your  counsels,  as  if  I  were  the 

most  faithless  spy  since  the  daj's  of  Gaiwlon  f 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Heimer  the  fierce,  who  was  the  Ganelon  of 
the  society,  sat  upon  the  left.  //.  Weber. 

Gan'der-cleugh  (-klobk).  [That  is, 
gander-clilf,  or  gander-ravine.]  An 
imaginary  town  situated  on  the  imag- 
inary river  Gander,  in  "  the  central 
part,  the  navel  of  Scotland."  It  was 
the  residence  of  Jedediah  Cleish- 
botham  (see  Cleishbotham,  Jede- 
diah), who  speaks  of  it  as  "  a  place 
frequented  by  most  at  one  time  or 
other  in  their  lives." 

Ga'nem.  The  name  of  a  young 
merchant  who  is  the  hero  of  one  of 
the  tales  in  the  "Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments."  He  incurs  the 
vengeance  of  Caliph  Haroun-Al-Ea- 
?chid,  and  has  his  house  leveled  to 
the  ground  in  consequence,  but  es- 
capes being  made  a  prisoner  by  dis- 
guising himself  like  a  slave  belonging 
to  an  eating-house,  and  putting  on 
his  head  the  dishes  from  which  he 
had  just  eaten  dinner,  —  a  trick 
which  effectually  deceives  the  guards, 
who  permit  him  to  pass  without  ex- 
amination. 

Gan'e-sa.  {ITlndu  Myth.)  The  god 
of  policy  and  prudence,  or  wisdom. 
He  is  represented  with  the  head  of  an 
elephant,  and  with  four  arms;  some- 
times with  three  arms. 

The  tenth  Avatar  comes!  at  Heaven's  com- 

III  and. 
Shall  Scriswattee  wave  her  hallowed  wand, 


And  Camdeo  bright  and  Ganena  sublime 

Hliall  liluss  with  joy  their  own  propitioua 
cliiiK-! 

Come,  Heavenly  Powers!  primeval  peace  re- 
store I 

Love,— Mercy,  — Wisdom,  —  rule  for  ever- 
more! CanipbM. 

Gan'y-mede.  [Gr.  rai/v/uujSTj?,  Lat. 
Gdiiymtdes.]  (G)\  (f  jRvm.  Myth.) 
A  son  of  Tros,  king  of  Troy,  by 
Callirrhoe.  He  was  the  most  Ijeauti- 
ful  of  mortals;  and  Jupiter,  charmed 
with  his  appearance,  assumed  the 
form  of  an  eagle,  snatched  him  away 
from  his  playmates  on  Mount  Ida, 
and  carried  him  up  to  heaven,  where 
he  became  the  cup-bearer  of  the  gods 
in  the  place  of  Juno's  daughter  Hebe. 
See  Hehe.  [Written  also,  poetically, 
G  a  n  y  in  e  d.] 

Tall  stripliiis:  youths  rich  clad,  of  fairer  hue 
Than  Ganyintd  or  Hylas.  Milton, 

Pour  forth  heaven's  wine,  Tdsean  Ganyinede, 
And  let  it  fill  the  Dsedal  cups  like  lire 

SfieUey. 
There,  too,  flushed  Ganymede,  his  rosy  thigh 

Half  buried  in  the  eagle's  down. 
Sole  as  a  flying  star  shot  through  the  sky 

Above  the  pillared  town.  Teuhysoru 

Garcias,  Pedro  (pa'dro  gaf-the'jiss). 
A  mythical  personage,  of  Avhom  men- 
tion is  made  in  the  preface  to  "  Gil 
Bias,"  in  which  it  is  related  how  two 
scholars  of  Salamanca  discovered 
a  tombstone  with  the  inscription, 
"  Here  lies  inteiTed  the  soul  of  the 
licentiate  Pedro  Garcias,"  and  how^ 
on  digging  beneath  the  stone,  the]' 
found  a  leathern  purse  containing  a 
hundred  ducats. 

Then  it  was  like  the  soul  of  the  licentiate 
Pedro  Garcia.-',  which  lay  among  the  ducats 
in  his  leathern  purse.  Sir  W.  Scott, 

On  the  other  hand,  does  not  his  soul  lie 
inclosed  in  this  remarkable  volume  much 
more  truly  tlian  Ftdro  Garcias'  did  in  the 
buried  bag  of  doubloons?  Carli/le, 

Garden  City.  A  popular  name  for 
Chicago,  a  city  in  Illinois  which  is 
remarkable  for  the  number  and 
beauty  of  its  private  gardens. 

Garden  of  England.  A  name  gen- 
erally applied  to  the  county  of  Wor- 
cester, on  account  of  its  beauty  and 
fertility. 

If  the  county  of  Worcester,  which  has 
hitherto  been  accounted  the  Giirdf-n  of  Eng- 
land, is  now  (as  the  Report  of  the  Home  Mis- 
Bionary  assures  us)  become,  for  want  of 
preachers,  "a  waste  and  howling  wilderness," 
what  must  the  mountains  of  Macgillicuddy 
be?  T.Moore, 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


GAR 


145 


GAW 


Garden  of  Europe.  An  appellation 
sometimes  j^ivi'ii  to  Italy,  a  eoiiiitiy 
remarkable  for  the  extixnne  fertility 
of  its  soil,  the  variety  of  its  vei;x'tahle 
produetioiis,  the  <;-eiieral  salubrity  of 
its  climate,  and  the  unsurpassed  love- 
liness and  magnilieenee  of  its  scenery. 

Garden  of  France.  [Fr.  Jard'm  de 
la  France.]  A  name  given  to  the 
department  of  Indre -et- Loire,  in- 
cluding Tourraine,  part  of  Anjou, 
Poitou,  and  the  Orleanais,  a  region 
celebrated  for  its  beauty  and  fertility. 

Garden  of  Italy.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  the  island  of  Sicily,  Avhich 
is  distinguished  for  the  romantic 
beauty  of  its  scenery,  and  the  luxuri- 
ance of  its  crops. 

Garden  of  the  "West.  A  name 
usually  given  to  Kansas,  but  some- 
times applied  to  Illinois  and  others 
of  the  Western  States,  which  are  all 
noted  for  their  productiveness. 

Garden  of  the  World.  A  name  fre- 
qnently  given  to  the  vast  country, 
comprising  more  than  1,200,000 
square  miles,  which  is  drained  by  the 
Mississippi  and  its  tributaries,  —  a  re- 
gion of  almost  unexampled  fertility. 

Gargamelle  (gai-'ga^'mel')-  [Fr., 
threat.]  The  mother  of  Gargantua, 
in  Kabelais'  celebrated  romance  of 
this  name.  ^ 

Gargantua  (gar-gant'yoo-a;  Fr.pron. 
gai-'gon-tirrj',  34,  62).  [F>.,  from 
Sp.  (jarfjanta^  throat,  gullet.]  The 
hero  of  Rabelais'  celebrated  ro- 
mance of  the  same  name,  a  royal 
giant,  about  whom  many  wonderful 
.ctories  are  related.  He  lived  for 
several  centuries,  and  at  last  begot 
a  son,  Pantagruel,  as  wonderful  as 
himself. 

tew  Rabelais  borrowed  this  character 
from  an  old  Celtic  giant  story.  The  wa- 
ter-giants were  all  great  guzzlers.  Gar- 
gantua, in  the  legend,  when  a  child,  sucks 
the  milk  from  ten  nurses.  He  stands 
"with  each  foot  upon  a  high  mountain, 
and  bending  down,  drinks  up  the  river 
■which  flows  between. 

You  must  borrow  me  Gm-ffantua's  mouth 
first;  'tis  a  word  too  great  for  any  inoutli  of 
this  age's  size.  Shah. 

Gar'ger-y,  Joe.  An  illiterate  black- 
suiiih,  in  Dickens's  "  Great  Expecta- 


tions," romarkal)le  for  his  simplicitr, 
generosity,  and  kindness  of  heart. 

Gar'ger-y,  Mrs.  Joe.  A  virago,  who 
tigures  in  Dickens's  novel  of  ''  Great 
Expectations." 

Gate  City.  1.  Keokuk,  Iowa ;  —  pop- 
ularly so  called.  It  is  situated  at  the 
foot  of  the  lower  rapids  of  the  Mis- 
sissippi (which  extend  twelve  miles, 
with  a  fall  of  twenty-four  feet),  and 
is  the  natural  head  of  navigation.  A 
portion  of  the  city  is  built  on  a  blutf 
one  hundred  and  fifty  feet  high. 

2.  Atlanta,  a  city  in  Georgia,  and 
the  terminus  of  four  of  the  principal 
railroads  of  the  State ;  —  so  called  by 
Jert'erson  Davis,  as  being,  in  a  mili- 
tary point  of  view,  the  most  impor- 
tant inland  position  in  the  lower  part 
of  the  South. 

Gate  of  Tears.  A  literal  translation 
of  the  word  Babebnandeb,  the  straits 
of  which  name  were  so  called  on  ac- 
count of  the  number  of  shipwrecks 
Avhich  occur  m  them. 

Like  some  ill-destined  bark  that  steers 
In  silence  through  the  Gate  of  Tears 

T.  Moore. 

Gaudentio  di  Lucca  (gow-dent'se-o 
dee  lobk'ka).  The  name  of  a  cele- 
brated romance,  —  written  by  Simon 
Berington,  —  and  also  of  its  hero, 
who  is  represented  as  making  a  jour- 
ney to  Mezzoramia,  an  imaginary 
country  in  the  interior  of  Africa. 

Gautier  et  Garguille  (gd'te^a'  a  gaf'- 
geP,  82).  Two  proper  names  having 
a  signitication  equivalent  to  tout  le 
monde,  or  every  body,  found  in  the 
FVench  proverbial  expression,  "  Se 
mnqiier  de  (jautier  et  Garguille,''''  to 
make  game  of  Gautier  and  Garguille, 
that  is,  to  make  game  of  every  body. 

For  the  rest,  spare  neither  Gnutier  nor  Gar- 
guille. Regnier,  Traits. 

Gaw'ain,  Sir.  [Written  also  Gau- 
va  i  n.]  A  nephew  of  King  Arthur, 
and  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
knights  of  the  Round  Table,  noted 
for  his  sagacity,  his  habitual  court- 
esy, and  his  wonderful  strength, 
Avhich  is  said  to  have  been  greater  at 
certain  hours  of  the  day  than  at  oth- 
ers. Chaucer,  in  his  "  Squire's  Tale," 


and  for  the  Kemarks  and  HuIcs  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 

10 


GAW 


146 


GEN 


describin;;  the  entrance  of  a  strange 
knigljt,  says  that  he 

*'  Siilueth  king  ami  lordes  alle, 
Bv  order  :us  they  sat  in  the  hall, 
Witii  so  high  revurence  and  obsen'ance, 
As  well  in  speech  as  in  his  coniitenance. 
That  Oiiwiiui  with  his  olde  eurtesie, 
Though  he  were  come  again  out  of  faerie, 
Ne  coude  him  not  aMieiiduii  with  a  word." 

Gawkey,  Lord.     See  LoRi>  Gawkey. 

Gaw'rey.  A  name  given,  in  the  ro- 
mance of  "  I'eter  Wilkins,"  to  the 
flying  women  among  whom  the  hero 
of  the  work  -was  thrown.  See  WiL- 
KiNS,  Petkh. 

She  spread  out  her  beautiful  arms,  as  if 
indeed  she  eould  fly  off  like  the  pretty  Gaiortji 
whom  the  man  in  the  story  was  enamored  of. 

Thackeray . 

Gefion(gS'fc-on),  /      {Scand.    Myth.) 
GeQon  (giSPyon).  (  The  goddess    of 
virginity,  t()  whom  all   maidens   re- 
pair after  death. 

Gel'ert.  The  name  of  a  favorite  grey- 
hound of  Llewellyn,  son-in-law  to 
King  John  of  England.  On  one  oc- 
casion, during  the  absence  of  his 
master  in  the  chase,  he  destroyed  a 
ferocious  wolf,  who  attacked  Llewel- 
Ivn's  infant  son  Returning  from  the 
field,  and  not  finding  the  child, — 
who  was  sound  asleep  under  a  con- 
fused heap  of  bedclothes,  — Llewellyn 
rashly  concluded  that  the  dog,  whose 
lips  were  bloody  from  his  struggle 
with  the  wolf,  had  killed  him;  and, 
without  waiting  to  examine  or  in- 
quire, plunged  his  sword  to  the  hilt 
in  Gelert's  side.  With  the  dying 
yell  of  the  dog,  the  infant  awoke, 
and  Llewellyn,  smitten  with  remorse 
for  his  rash  and  frantic  deed,  erected 
an  elegant  monument  over  the  re- 
mains of  the  faithful  animal;  whence 
the  place  was  called  Btihgelt-rt,  or 
"the  grave  of  the  greyhound,"  a 
name  which  it  bears  to  the  present 
day.  It  is  in  a  parish  of  the  same 
name  in  North  Wales.  This  legend 
has  been  versified  by  William  Robert 
Spencer. 

Llewellvn's  grevhound  has  a  second  grave 
very  distant  from'that  of  Bcthgelert.  It  sleeps 
and  points  a  m()ral  in  Persia.  WUhiiott. 

Celiat-ley,  Da'vle.  The  name  of  an 

idiot  servant  of  the  Baron  of  Brad- 

wardine,  in  Scott's  novel  of  "  Wa- 
verley." 


Gem  of  TTormandy.  A  name  given 
to  Lmma,  ilaughter  of  Richard  L, 
duke  of  Normandy,  married  to  Eth- 
elred  IL,  king  of  England.  She 
died  in  1052. 

General  Undertaker,  The.  [Fr.  Le 
(iencfitl  Aritrtjji-fiitiir.]  A  nickname 
given  by  the  populace  of  Paris  to  the 
Emperor  Napok-ctn  lionaparte,  on  ac- 
count of  the  iminen.se  public  works 
which  he  entered  upon,  but  did  not 
always  complete. 

6e-neu'ra.  The  same  as  Guinerer, 
King  Arthur's  queen,  notorious  for 
her  infidelity  to  him.      See  Guine- 

VEK. 

Gren'e-vieve'.  1.  The  heroine  of  a 
ballad  by  Coleridge. 

2.  Under  the  f'onn  Genoveva,  or 
Genovefii,  the  name  occurs  in  a 
German  myth  as  that  of  the  wife  of 
the  Count  Palatine  Siegfried  of 
INlayenfeld,  in  the  time  of  Charles 
Martel.  According  to  the  tradition, 
she  was  left  behind  by  her  husband 
while  on  a  march  against  the  Sara- 
cens Upon  false  accusations  made 
to  him,  he  gave  orders  to  put  her  to 
death ;  but  the  servant  intrusted  with 
the  commission  sufl'ered  her  to  escape 
into  the  forest  of  Ardennes,  where 
she  lay  concealed  a  long  time,  until 
by  accident  her  husband  discovered 
her  retreat,  and  recognized  her  inno- 
cence. This  legend  furnished  the 
material  of  one  of  the  earliest "  Volks- 
biicher,"  or  popular  tales.  In  modern 
times,  Tieck  and  Miiller  have  redacted 
the  tradition,  and  Raupach  has  made 
it  the  subject  of  a  drama. 

4t^  "  St.  Genevieve  is  the  patron  saint 
of  Paris,  and  the  name  has  always  been 
held  in  liio;h  esteem  in  France.  There  is 
a  German  form  of  the  name  borne  bv  the 
apocryphal  saint  Genovefa.  of  Brabant, 
to  whom  has  attached  the  story,  of  sus- 
picious universalitv,  of  the  wife  who  was 
driven  by  malicious  accusations  to  the 
woods,  there  to  give  birth  to  an  infant, 
and  to  be  nourished  by  a  white  doe  until 
the  final  di.<covery  of  lier  innocence.-' 

Yonge. 

Ge'ni-1.  (Gr.  c/  Rom.  Mi/th.)  Pro- 
tecting spirits  or  tutelar  deities  anal- 
agous  to  the  guardian  angels  of  the 
Christian  faith. 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationi, 


GEN" 


147 


GIA 


Gentle  Shepherd.  A  nickname,  de- 
rivv'd  from  a  lino  of  a  well-known 
sonp,  lu.NtfiiL'd  upon  Gcor^-c  (irenville 
(1712- 1770),  by  William  Pitt,  Earl 
of  (^liathani,  in  a  celebrated  debate 
in  parliament. 

George  a-Green.  The  subject  of  an 
English  prose  romance  entitled  "  The 
History  of  Geoj'.G:e  a-Green,  Pindar 
of  the  town  of  Wakelield."  In  its 
MS.  form,  it  is  supposed  to  be  as  old 
as  the  days  of  (Jueen  Elizabeth. 
"  Pindar"  is  a  corruption  of  p'mntr, 
or  /itiiner,  that  is,  keeper  of  the  pub- 
lic pen  or  pound  for  the  continemeut 
of  estrays. 

Look  before  you  leap, 
For  as  you  sow,  you  're  like  to  reap; 
And  were  y'  as  Rood  as  George  a-Green, 
I  shall  make  bold  to  turu  again; 
Nor  am  I  doubtful  of  the  issue 
In  a  just  quarrel,  and  mine  is  so.    Jludi'bras. 

I  will  presently  order  you  a  rundlct  of 
Rhenish,  with  a  corresponding  quantity  of 
neats'  tonjcues  and  pickled  herrinjis,  to  make 
you  all  as  glorious  as  George  a-Green. 

Sir  IV.  Scott. 

6e-ramt',  Sir.  A  legendar}'  hero, 
connected  with  the  romances  of  the 
Round  Table.  His  story  is  treated 
in  Tennyson's  "Idylls  of  the  King." 

66r'al-dine.  A  name  of  frequent  oc- 
currence in  romantic  poetry.  Lady 
Elizabeth  Fitzgerald  was  the  lady 
who  was  made  by  Surrey  the  heroine 
of  his  poetry,  under  the  title  of  the 
"  Fair  Geraldine,"  thus  leading  to 
the  adoption  of  this  latter  as  one  of 
the  class  of  romantic  names.  See 
Fair  Gekaldine. 

6er'd$(4).  {Samd.  Myih.)  The  wife  of 
Frey.  She  was  accounted  the  most 
beautiful  of  all  the  goddesses,  and 
was  renowned  for  her  piety  and  vir- 
tue. 

German  Achilles. 

OF    CiEKMANY. 


German   Cicero. 
Ger:\iany. 

German  Hector. 
Germany. 

German  Mil'ton 


See  Achilles 
See  Cicero  of 
See  Hector  of 


(-tn).  A  title  be- 
stowed tipon  Friedrich  Gottlieb  Klop- 
stock  (1724-1803),  author  of  "  The 
Messiah,"  an  epic  poem.  Coleridge 
said  of  him,  that  he  was  "a  very 
German  Milton,  indeed  !  " 


While  Klopstock   was  called  onr   MiltoTi, 

Wieland  our  Voltaire,  and  cithers  in  the  same 
way,  Goethe  and  Schiller  wore  never  other 
than  themselves.  Gc.rvinus,  Trans. 

German  Pla'to.  Friedrich  Heinrich 
Jacobi  (174.'{-1819),  a  distinguished 
German  pliilosoi)her,  so  called  on  ac- 
count of  the  high  religious  tone  of 
his  metaphysical  writings. 

German  Vol-taire'  (-•}).  1.  A  title 
often  given  to  ( !hristoph  Martin  Wie- 
land (1733-1813),  one  of  the  great 
poets  who  are  the  pride  of  Genu  any. 

He  [Wieland]  had  imbibed  so  much  of  the 
taste  of  the  French  along  with  their  philoso- 
phy, that  he  bore  the  Jianie  of  the  German 
Voltaire,  in  Germany  and  out  of  Germany. 
Jiouterwek,  Trans. 

2.  A  title  sometimes  applied  to 
Goeth. 

i^"  "  Goethe  has  been  called  the  Ger- 
man Voltaire  ;  but  it  is  a  name  which 
does  him  wrong,  and  describes  him  ill. 
Excepting  in  the  corresponding  variety 
of  their  pursuits  and  knowledge,  in  which, 
perhaps,  it  does  'V'oltaire  wrong,  the  two 
cannot  be  compiired.  Goethe  is  all,  or 
the  best  of  all,  that  Voltaire  was.  and  he 
was  much  that  Voltaire  did  not  dream 
of."  Carlyle. 

G6ronte  (zha'ront',  62).  [Fr.,  from 
the  (xr.  •yepoji',  Yepoi'T09,  an  old  man.] 
A  character  in  Moliere's  comedies, 
"  Le  Medecin  malgrd  Lui "  and 
"  Les  Fourberies  de  Scapin."  The 
name  is  commonly  used  in  French 
comedies  to  designate  any  old  man, 
particularly  one  who  for  any  reason 
makes  himself  ridiculous. 

Gerund,  Friar.   See  Friar  Gerund. 

Ge'ry-on  (9).  [Gr.  Frjpuorrjs.]  [Gr.cf 
Rom.  Mi/th.)  A  king  of  Hesperia, 
son  of  Chrysaor  and  Callirrhoe,  de- 
scribed as  a  being  with  three  bodies 
and  three  heads.  He  possessed  mag- 
nificent oxen,  but,  as  he  fed  them 
with  human  tlesh,  he  was  killed  by 
Hercules. 

Ghent,  Pacification  of.  See  Paci- 
fication OF  Ghent. 

Giant  Cor'mo-ran.  A  Cornish  giant, 
slain  by  Jack  the  Giant-killer.  See 
Jack  the  Giant-killer. 

Giant  Despair.  In  Bunyan's  "Pil- 
grim's Progress,"  a  giant  who  is  the 
owner  of  Doubting  Castle,  and  who, 
finding  Christian  and  Hopeful  asleep 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


GIA 


148 


GIL 


upon  his  f^rounds,  takes  them  pris- 
oners, and  thrusts  them  into  a  dun- 
geon. 

Since  the  time  of  John  Milton,  no  braver 
hciut  had  lifut  in  nii.V  Ensiish  boMiiii  thiiii 
Siinuiil  Jolm.sDU  now  bore.  .  .  .  No  Giditl 
Beynir  .  .  .  aiipalls  this  pilgrim;  he  \vorl<.s 
re.sohitelv  for  (K-live ranee,  in  still  detiunee 
steps  resolutely  alonj,'.  Carlyh-. 

The  monotonons  desolation  of  the  scene 
ini-.rensert  to  that  deji;ree,  tliat,for  any  redeem- 
in;'  feature  it  presented  to  their  eyes,  they 
mi(<ht  have  entered  in  the  body  ou  the  {jriui 
domains  of  Gkuit  Ue.'<jjair.  Dickens. 

Giant  Grim.  In  the  "  Pilgrim's  Prog- 
ress "  of  .lolin  Uunyan.  a  giant  who 
seeks  to  stop  the  march  of  tlie  pil- 
grims to  the  Celestial  City,  hut  is 
slain  in  a  duel  hy  Mr.  Great-heart, 
their  guide. 

Giant-killer,  The.     See  Jack   the 

GlAXT-KILLEK. 

Giants.  [Gr.  ri'-yai/re?,  Lat.  Gignntes.] 
1.  (Gr.  it  Jiom.  .^rt/fh.)  Sons' of  Tar- 
tarus and  Terra,  l)L'ings  of  monstrous 
size,  with  dragons'  tails  and  fearful 
countenances.  They  attempted  to 
storm  heaven,  being  armed  with 
huge  rocks  and  the  trunks  of  trees, 
but  were  killed  by  the  gods  with  the 
assistance  of  Hercules,  and  were 
buried  under  Moimt  iEtna  and  other 
volcanoes. 

2.  (Scrnd.  Mijth.)  Evil  genii  of 
various  forms  and  races,  enemies  of 
the  gods.  They  dwelt  in  a  territory 
of  their  own,  called  Jiiluiihelm^  or 
Giant-land.  They  had  the  power  of 
assuming  divers  shapes,  and  of  in- 
creasing or  diminishing  their  stature 
at  will."   See  JiiTUXiiKiM. 

Giant  Slay-good.  In  Bunyan's  "  Pil- 
grim's Progress,"  a  giant  slain  in  a 
duel  by  Mr.  Great-heart. 

(jrib'bet.    A  foot-pad  in  the  "  Beaux' 

Stratagem,"  a  comedy  by  George 
Farquhar. 

Like  Gihlct  .  .  .  [they]  piqued  themselves 
on  being  tlie  best-behaved  men  on  the  road, 
and  on  conducting  themselvi's  with  all  a])- 
propriate  civility  in  the  exercise  of  their  voca- 
tion. Sir  W.  Scott. 

&ib'bie,  Goose.  A  half-witted  lad 
in  Lady  Bellenden's  service,  in 
Scott's  "novel  of  "  Old  INIortality." 

A  great  companion  of  mv  yonnger  days 
•was  Johnny  Stykes,  who,  like  Goose  Gihhie 
of  funious  memory,  first  kept  the  turkeys, 


and  then,  an  his  years  advanced,  was  pro- 
moted to  the  more  importantolHce  of  miufhng 
the  cowii.  Kcitjlitlcy. 

Gibraltar  of  America.  A  name 
often  given  to  the  city  of  (Quebec, 
which,  from  its  position,  and  natural- 
and  artilicial  means  of  defense,  is, 
perhaps,  the  most  strongly  lortitied. 
city  in  America. 

GH  Bias  (zhel  blass).  The  title  of  a 
tamous  romance  by  Le  Sage  (16G8- 
1747),  and  tiie  name  of  its  hero,  by 
whom,  and  with  whose  commentaries, 
the  story  is  professedly  told. 

/f^  "  Gil  Bias  ...  is  naturally  dis- 
posed toward  honesty,  thougli  with  a 
mind  unfortunately  too  ductile  to  resist 
the  temptations  of  opportunity  or  ex- 
ample, lie  is  constitutionally  timid,  and 
yet  occasionally  capable  of  doing  brave 
actions  ;  shrewd  and  intelligent,  but  apt 
to  be  deceived  by  his  own  vanity  ;  witli 
wit  enough  to  make  us  laugh  with  him 
at  others,  and  follies  enough  to  turn  the 
jest  frefiuently  against  himself.  Gener- 
ous, good-natured,  and  humane,  he  hiia 
virtues  sufficient  to  make  us  love  him, 
and,  as  to  respect,  it  is  the  last  thing 
which  lie  asks  at  his  reader's  hand." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

&l11,  Harry.  A  character  in  Words- 
worth's ballad  entitled  "  Goody 
Blake  and  Hairy  Gill,"  smitten  with 
])er])etual  cold  for  his  hard  heart- 
edness  toward  an  old  dame.  See 
Goody   Blake. 

Gills,  Sol.  A  warm-hearted,  simple- 
minded  ships'-instruments  maker  in 
Dickens's  ''  Dombey  and  Son." 

Gil  Morrice.     See  Morrice,  Gil. 

Gil'pin,  John.  A  citizen  of  London, 
and  "  a  train-band  captain,"  whose 
adventures  are  related  in  Cowper's 
humorous  poem  entitled  "  The  Di- 
verting History  of  John  Gilpin, 
showing  how  he  went  further  tlian 
he  intended,  and  came  safe  home 
again."  The  story  was  related  to 
Cowper  by  a  INIrs.  Austen,  who  re- 
membered to  have  heard  it  in  her 
childhood.  The  poem  first  api^cared 
anonymously  in  the  "  Public  Adver- 
tiser," in  1782,  and  was  first  pub- 
lished as  Cowper's  avowed  produc- 
tion in  the  second  volume  of  his 
poems. 

•'  John  Gilpin  is  said  to  have  been 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationa, 


GIN 


149 


GLA 


Mr.  Bayer,  an  eminent  linen-draper, 
superlatively  polite,  who  figured,  in  the 
visible  onler  of  things,  at  the  top  of 
Paternoster  Row,  or  rather  at  tlie  corner 
of  Cheapside.    Quoth  Mr.  John  Gilpin,  — 

'  I  am  a  linen-draper  bold, 

As  all  the  wuild  doth  know.'" 

Sates  ami  Queries. 

Gines  de  Passamonte  (he-nes^  da, 
pSs-sa-niou'ta,  58).  The  name  of  a 
galley-slave  and  pupj)et-slio\v'  man  in 
"Don  Quixote." 

In  that  case,  replied  I,  painting  excels  the 
ape  of  the  renownud  Giiics  de  I'dssainontc, 
which  only  meddled  with  the  past  and  the 
present.  Sir  ))'.  Scott. 

He  manages  his  delightful  puppet-show 
witliout  thriii^ting  his  head  beyond  the  cur- 
tain, like  Gines  de  rassamoiite,  to  explain 
what  he  is  doing.  Sir  W.  Scutt. 

Gl-nev'ra.  1.  A  lady  whose  story 
has  been  interwoven  with  the  adven- 
tures of  Kinaldo,  in  Ariosto's  chiv- 
alrous romance,  the  ''  Orlando  Furi- 
oso."  Ginevra,  talsely  accused,  is 
doomed  to  die,  unless  a  true  knight 
comes  within  a  month  to  do  battle  for 
her  honor.  Her  lover,  Arit)dantes, 
has  tied,  and  is  reported  to  have  per- 
ished. The  wicked  duke  who  has 
brought  the  accusation  appears  secure 
in  his  treachery ;  but  the  woman  who 
has  been  his  instrument,  meeting 
with  Rinaldo,  discloses  the  truth  ; 
then  comes  a  combat,  in  which  the 
guilty  duke  is  slain  by  the  champion 
of  innocence,  and  the  lover  re  appears 
and  recovers  his  lady.  This  incident 
was  derived  by  Ariosto  from  the  popu- 
lar traditions  of  the  South  of  Europe. 
Spenser  has  a  similar  story  in  the 
"  Faerv  Queen,"  and  Shakespeare 
availed  himself  of  the  main  incident 
in  his  comedy  of  "  Much  Ado  about 
Nothing." 

2.  The  title  and  subject  of  a 
metrical  tale  by  Samuel  Rogers, 
which  relates  how  a  young  Italian 
lady,  upon  her  wedding-day,  secreted 
herself,  from  motives  of  frolic,  in  a 
self-locking  oaken  chest,  the  lid  of 
which  shut  down  and  buried  her 
alive. 

Phoebus,  sitting  one  day  in  &   laurel-tree's 

shade. 
Was  reminded  of  Daphne,  of  whom  it  was 

made. 
For  the  god  being  one  day  too  warm  in  his 

wooing. 
She  took  to  the  tree,  to  escape  his  pursuing; 


Be  the  eanse  what  it  might,  from  his  offers  she 

shrunk, 
And,  Gi/tctva-like,shut  herself  up  in  a  trunk. 

Lowell. 

3.     See  GuiNEVER. 

Gingerbread,  Gile§.  The  hero  of  an 
old  and  celebrated  English  nursery 
tale. 

j^^  "  The  world  is  prohably  not  aware 
of  the  ingenuity,  humor,  good  sense, 
and  sly  satire  contained  in  many  of  the 
old  Knglisli  nursery  tales.  Tliey  have 
evidently  been  the  sportive  productions 
of  able  wi'iters,  wlio  would  not  trust  their 
names  to  productions  that  might  he 
considered  beneath  their  dignity.  Tlie 
ponderous  works  on  which  they  relied  for 
immortality  have  perhaps  sunk  into  ob- 
livion, and  carried  tlieir  names  down  with 
them  ;  while  their  unacknowledged  off- 
spring, 'Jack  the  Giant-killer,'  '  Gile.s 
Gingerbread,"  and  "  Tom  Thumb,'  flourish 
in  wide-spreading  and  never  ceasing  pop- 
ularity." W.  Irving. 

Ginnunga-gap  (gin-noon'ga-gap ). 
[Old  Norse  f/inn,,  wide,  expanded 
(used  only  in  composition), and  f/api, 
to  gape,  yawn,  open.]  {Scand. 
Mytli.)  The  vast  chaotic  abys.s 
which  existed  before  the  present 
world,  and  separated  Nifiheim,  or  the 
region  of  fog,  from  Muspelheim,  or 
the  region  of  heat. 

Gjallar  (gyaM.if).  [Old  Norse  gaii, 
to  sing,  call  out.  Comp.  Eng.  call.  \ 
{Scand.  Myth.)  The  horn  of  Heim- 
dall,  which  he  blows  to  give  notice  to 
the  gods  of  those  who  arrive  at  the 
bridge  Bifrclst,  and  attempt  to  cross 
it.     [Written  also  G  i  a  1 1  a  r.] 

Glasse,  Mrs.  (2).  The  real  or  fictitious 
author  of  a  cookery-book,  formerly 
very  famous.  It  is  said  by  some  lo 
have  been  written  by  one  Hannah 
Glasse,  a  habit  maker  and  seller  in 
the  early  part  of  the  last  century. 
Others  attribute  it  to  the  scribatious 
Dr.  Hill  (Sir  John  Hill,  1716-1775), 
considering  the  name  a  pseudonym 
The  first  "edition  was  published  in 
17-47,  and,  very  appropriately,  in  what 
is  termed  "  pot"  folio.  INIrs.  Glasse 
is  popularly  thought  to  begin  a  re- 
ceipt for  cooking  a  hare  with  the  pithy 
advice,  "  First  catch  your  hare;  "  but 
this  expression  is  not  found  in  any 
known  edition  of  her  book. 
They  [the  Crim- Tartars]  have  bo  far  relin- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


GLA 


150 


GOD 


nuished  their  ancient  food  of  horse-flesh  that 
Uiey  will  only  fued  upon  colts;  and  to  this 
diet  is  addid  ...  a  irreat  variety  of  learned 
dainties,  whicli  J/rs.  GlitsKe  herself  would  not 
disdain  to  add  to  her  high-flavored  eataloL'ue. 

Edin.  Jii'V. 

Semmes  took  a  pinch  of  snuff,  and  replied, 
"You  remember  J/rs.  Glasse's  well-worn  re- 
ceipt for  cooking  a  hare,  —  First  catch  your 
hare."  £jjcs  Sargent. 

G-lau'cus.  [Gr.  rAaOwo?.]  (  Gr.  if  Rom. 
Mijth.)  1.  A  son  of  Sisyphus,  torn 
to  pieces  by  his  own  horses. 

2.  A  lislierman  of  Anthedon.  in 
Eiiba'a,  who  was  changed  into  a  sea- 
deity. 

3^  A  son  of  IMinos,  king  of  Crete, 
by  Pasiphae.  He  met  his  death  by 
falling  into  a  cask  of  honey,  but  was 
miraculously  restored  to  life. 

Glen-coe'.  A  name  commonly  given 
to  JNIacdonald  of  Glencoe,  who  was 
the  chief  of  a  Scottish  clan,  and 
known  among  the  mountains  by  the 
hereditary  name  of  Mac  Ian.  He 
was  one  of  the  most  impracticable 
rebel  chiefs  in  the  time  of  William 
and  Mary,  and  met  with  a  disastrous 
death. 

Glen'do-veer.  {Hindu  Myth.)  The 
most  beautiful  of  the  good  spirits. 

Glen-gar'ry.  The  name  under  which 
Macdonald  of  Glengarry — one  of  the 
groat  Scottish  chieftains  who  ulti- 
mately gave  in  his  adhesion  to  the 
government  of  William  HI.  —  is  gen- 
erally mentioned  in  history. 

Glen-varloch,  Lord.  See  Oli- 
FAUNT,  Nigel. 

Glo'ri-a'na(9).  In  Spenser's  "  Faen,' 
Queen,"  the  "  greatest  glorious  queen 
of  Faery-lond." 

4®="  "  In  that  Faery  Queen,  I  mean 
GInry  in  ni.v  general  intention,  but  in  my 
particular,  I  conceive  the  most  excellent 
and  glorions  person  of  our  sovereign,  the 
Qiifen  [Elizal)eth],  and  her  kingdom  in 
Facrye-lnn(t  y 

Introductory  '■'■'Letter  of  the  Author.'*'' 

Glorious  Preacher.  A  title  popu- 
larlv  given  to  St.  John  Chrvsostom, 
or  'the  "Golden-mouth"  (354-407), 
the  most  renowned  of  the  Greek 
fathers,  and  a  very  eloquent  Church 
orator. 

je®="  He  preached  several  times  a  week 
to  crowded  audiences,  and  his  sermons 
were  received  by  the  people  with  such 


shouts  and  acclamations  of  applaiise,  that 
his  church  became  a  sort  of  theater, 
which  attracted  great  numbers  who  had 
hitherto  attended  only  tlie  circus  and 
other  places  of  amusement. 

Glos'sin,  Gilbert.  A  villainous  law- 
yer in  Scott's  "  Guy  Mannering." 

Glover,  Catherine.    See  Fair  Maid 

OF   I'EltTH. 

Glub- dub 'drib.  An  imaginary  island 
fabled  to  have  been  visited  by  Gulli- 
ver in  his  tamous  "  Travels."  It  is 
represented  to  have  been  peopled  by 
sorcerers  or  magicians,  who  evoked, 
for  Gulliver's  amusement,  the  spirits 
of  many  great  men  of  antiquity. 

Glum-dal'clitch.  A  little  girl  only 
nine  years  old,  and  barely  forty  feet 
high,  who  had  charge  of  Gulliver 
wlaile  he  was  in  Brobdingnag.  See 
BitoHDiNGNAG,      and      Gulliver, 

Le>IL'EL. 

Soon   as  Glunulalclitch  missed  her  pleasing 

care. 
She  wept,  she  blubbered,  and  she  tore  her 

hair.  Pope. 

He  took  it  [a  letter]  up  wonderinfrly  and 
suspiciously,  as  Glumdalchtch  took  u))  Gul- 
liver. Sir  E.  iJulivtr  Lytton. 

Glyn'don,  How'ard.  A  pseudonym 
of  Laura  C  Redden,  an  American 
authoress  of  the  present  day. 

Gna'tho  (na'tho,  26).  [Gr.  VvaBoiv, 
putf-cheek,  fi-om  -yfaeo?,  jaw,  mouth.] 
A  celebrated  parasite  in  Terence's 
comedy  entitled  "  Eunuchus."  The 
name  is  used  proverbially  in  the 
Koman  and  the  later  Greek  comedy 
to  designate  a  parasite. 

Gob'bo,  Ijaun'9e-lot.  A  clown,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Merchant  of  Ven- 
ice." 

Gob'bo,  Old.  A  subordinate  charac- 
ter in  Shakespeare's  "  Merchant  of 
Venice;  "  father  to  Launcelot  Gobbo. 

Goddess  of  Reason.  See  Reason, 
Goddess  of. 

Go-di'va,  Lady.     See  Peeping  Tom 

OF   CoVEXTKY. 

Godon  (go^don',  62^.  or  Godam  (go'- 
dam').  A  nickname  (with  some  varia- 
tions of  spelling  and  pronunciation) 
applied  by  the  French  to  the  English, 
who  are  thus  characterized  by  their 


Ba~  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  EjcpIanaUoni, 


GOE 


151 


GON 


national  oath.     The  name  has  been 
long  in  use. 

JS^  "At  the  trial  of  Joan  of  Arc,  a 
French  witness  named  (Colette,  hjivint^ 
used  the  name  Godon,  was  asked  who 
Godon  was,  and  replied  that  it  was  not 
the  de.-^ignation  of  any  particular  person, 
but  a  sobriquet  applied  generally  to  the 
English,  on  account  of  their  continual 
use  of  the  exclamation,  God  damn  it." 

Sharon  Turner. 

Goetz  of  the  Iron  Hand  (gots,  46). 
See  Ikon  Hand. 

Gog  and  Ma'gog.  Popular  names 
for  two  colossal  wooden  statues  in 
the  Guildhall,  London.  It  is  thought 
that  these  renowned  figures  are  con- 
nected with  the  Corinaeus  and  Gotma- 
got  of  the  Armorican  chronicle  quot- 
ed by  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.  The 
former  name  has  gradually  sunk  into 
oblivion,  and  the  latter  has  been  split 
bv  popular  corruption  to  do  duty  for 
both. 

4®=  "  Our  Guildhall  giants  boast  of 
almost  as  high  an  antiquity  as  the  Gog 
and  Magog  of  the  Scriptures,  as  they,  or 
their  living  prototypes,  are  said  to  have 
been  found  in  Britain  by  Brute,  a  youn- 
ger son  of  Anthenor  of  Troy,  who  invaded 
Albion,  and  founded  the  city  of  London 
(at  first  called  Troy-novaut),  3000  years 
ago.  However  the  fict  may  have  been, 
the  two  giants  have  been  the  pride  of 
l.,ondon  from  time  immemorial.  The  old 
giants  were  burned  in  the  great  fire,  and 
the  new  ones  were  constructed  in  17U8. 
They  are  fourteen  feet  high,  and  occupy 
suitable  pedestals  in  Guildhall.  There 
can  be  little  doubt  that  the.'fe  civic  giants 
are  exaggerated  representatives  of  real 
persons  and  events."  Chambers. 

Boldemar,  King  (golt'S-maf).  A 
famous  German  kobold,  or  domestic 
fairy  servant,  fabled  to  be  the  inti- 
mate friend  of  Neveling  von  Harden- 
berg. 

Golden  Age.  [Lat.  Aurea  cetns.'] 
{(Jr.  4-  Rinn.  Mijt/i.)  One  of  the 
four  ages  into  which  the  life  of  the 
human  race  was  divided;  the  simple 
and  patriarchal   reign    of  Saturn,  a 

f)eriod  of  pei-petual  spring,  when  the 
and  flowed  with  milk  and  honey,  and 
all  things  needed  to  make  life  happy 
were  produced  spontaneou.sly ;  when 
beasts  of  prey  lived  peaceably  with 
other  animals,  and  man  had  not  yet, 


by  indulging  his  vices  and  passion."?, 
lapsed  troni  a  .state  of  innocence. 
It  was  succeeded  by  the  ages  of 
silver,  brass,  and  iron;  but  a  belief 
prevailed,  that,  when  the  stars  and 
planets  had  performed  a  complete 
revolution  around  the  heavens,  the 
Golden  Age  would  return. 

Golden  Bull.  [Lat.  Bulla  Auren, 
G(^r.  Gohlcne  Built.]  1.  {Ger.  Hist.) 
An  edict  issued  by  the  Emperor 
Charles  IV.  in  the  year  1336,  mainly 
for  the  purpose  of  settling  the  law 
of  imperial  elections. 

2.  (Hunt/.  Hist.)  A  constitutional 
edict  issued  by  Andrew  II.  in  the  early 
part  of  the  thirteenth  centur\\  It 
changed  the  government  of  Hungary 
from  absolutism  to  an  aristocratic 
monarchy,  and,  until  recent  times, 
was  the  charter  of  the  liberties  of  the 
Hungarians.  It  remained  in  force 
until  the  dissolution  of  the  German 
empire  in  1806. 

Golden  Fleece.  ( Gr.  cf  Eom.  Mijth.) 
The  fleece  of  the  ram  Chrysomallus, 
the  acquisition  of  which  was  the 
object  of  the  Argonautic  expedition. 
See  Argonauts. 

Golden  State.  A  popular  name  for 
the  State  of  California,  which  is  one 
of  the  most  important  gold-producing 
regions  in  the  world. 

Golden,  or  Yellow,  "Water.  See 
Parizade. 

Gol'dy.  An  affectionate  nickname 
sometimes  given  to  Oliver  Goldsmith 
by  his  friends.  It  originated  with  Dr. 
Johnson. 

Go-li'ath.  A  famous  Philistine  giant, 
a  native  of  Gath,  and  a  formidable 
opponent  of  the  annies  of  Israel.  He 
was  slain  by  the  stripling  David 
with  pebbles  hurled  from  a  sling. 
[Written  also,  but  less  properly, 
Goliah.] 

Gon'er-il.  A  daughter  of  Lear,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  this  name. 
See  Lear. 

The  edicts  of  ench  succpedinq:  set  of  maps- 
trates  have,  like  those  oi'  Goneril  and  Kefjan, 
diminished  thi.s  venerable  band  witli  the 
similar  question,  "  What  need  we  five  and 
twenty  ?  —  ten  ?  —  or  five  ?  "  Sir  W.  Scott, 

Gonnella  (gon-neMa,  102.)    An  Ital. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


GON 


152 


GOO 


lan  buffoon  of  great  celobrity,  wlio 
was  domestic  Jester  to  the  .Margrave 
Kieolausof  Este,  and  to  his  son  llorso, 
tlie  Duke  of  Ferrara.  He  was  aceus- 
tonied  to  ride  upon  a  niiserahie  horse, 
to  which  the  l^ulve  upon  one  oceasioii 
applied  a  line  from  Tlautus,  "  Os^a 
attjut  jjcllis  lotus  e6'<."  ("  Aulularia," 
a.  iii.,  sc.  (j. )  "  The  Jests  of  Gonnella  " 
was  publi.-^hed  in  150G,  at  LJologna. 

See    liOZINANTE. 

Gon-za'lo.  An  honest  old  counselor, 
in  Shakespeare's  "Tempest." 

Good  Duke  Humphrey.  A  name 
popularly  given,  by  his  contempora- 
ries, to  Humphrey  Flantagenet,  Duke 
of  Gloucester,  and  youngest  son  of 
Henry  IV. 

He  wrought  his  miracles  like  a  second 
Duke  Iluiiiphrei/ ;  and  by  the  influence  of  tlie 
beadle's  rod,  caused  the  lame  to  walk,  the 
blind  to  see,  and  the  palsied  to  labor. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Good  Earl.  A  name  commonly  given 
to  Archibald,  the  eighth  Earl  of  An- 
gus (d.  1588),  who  was  distinguished 
for  his  virtues. 

Goodfellow,  Robin.  A  kind  of 
merry  domestic  spirit,  whose  charac- 
ter and  achievements  are  recorded  in 
the  well  -  known  ballad  beginning 
"  From  Oberon  in  Fairy  -  land." 
"Wright,  in  his  "  Essays  on  the  Lit- 
erature, Superstitions,  and  History 
of  England  in  the  iViiddle  Ages," 
suspects  Kobin  Goodfellow  to  have 
been  the  Kobin  Hood  of  the  old  pop- 
ular morris-dance.     See  Hobgoblin. 

J^="  "  The  constant  attendant  upon 
the  English  fairy  court  was  the  celebrated 
Puck,  or  I{obin  Goodfellow,  who,  to  the 
elves,  acted  in  some  measure  as  the  jester 
or  clown  of  the  company,  — a  character 
then  to  be  found  in  the  establishment  of 
every  person  of  quality,  —  or,  to  use  a 
more  modern  comparison,  resembled  the 
Pierrot  of  the  pantomime.  His  jests  were 
of  the  most  simple,  and.  at  the  same  time, 
the  broadest  comic  character  ;  to  mis- 
lead a  clown  on  his  path  homeward,  to 
disgui-;e  himself  hke  a  stool,  in  order  to 
induce  an  old  srossip  to  commit  the  egre- 
gious mist.ike  of  .fitting  down  on  the  Hoor 
■when  she  expected  to  repose  on  a  chair, 
were  his  special  employments." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

That  shrewd  and  knavish  sprite 
Called  Jio'nti  Goodfellow.  Shak. 


She  was  pinched  and  pulled,  she  said; 

And  lie,  b\  tViurs  lantt-rii  led, 

1'ells  iiow  the  driid;;inj;  j;oblin  sweat, 

To  earn  his  creani-bowi, duly  set, 

When  in  one  niitiit.  ere  jrlinipse  of  mom, 

llis  shadowy  flail  had  threshed  the  corn. 

'i'liat  ten  day-laborers  could  not  end: 

Then  lies  hit'i  down  the  lubber  fiend. 

And,  stietehed  out  all  the  chimney's  length, 

liasks  at  the  Are  his  hairy  streiitrth; 

And  crop  full  out  fif  doois  he  fliuf^s, 

Ere  the  nrst  cock  his  matin  rint^s.         Jlilton. 

Good  King  Rene  (ru-na'',  or  rR'na). 
[Fr.  Le  Bon  Rui  Rtnc.\  The  desig- 
nation by  which  Kene  d'-Vnjou  (14()§- 
148U)  is  commonly  known  in  history. 

Good  Knight,  without  Fear  and 
without  Reproach,  The.  [Fr.  Le 
Bon  Clitvalifr.^  S'lns  Pear  et  sim.f  Re- 
jn-oche.]  An  appellation  conferred 
upon  PieiTe  de  Terrail  Bayard  (147G- 
1524).  a  French  knight  celebrated  for 
his  valor  and  loyalty. 

Goodman  of  Bailengeigh  (baMen- 
gik).  [That  is,  tenant  of  liallen- 
geigh,  which  is  a  steep  pass  leading 
down  behind  the  castle  of  Stirling.] 
A  nam  de  t/uerre  employed  by  the 
Scottish  king,  -James  V.,  who  was 
accustomed  to  make  disguised  expe- 
ditions through  the  midnight  streets 
of  Edinburgh,  as  Haroun-Al-Raschid 
did  through  those  of  Bagdad. 

Goodman  Palsgrave.  }  Contempt- 
Goody  Palsgrave.  (  uous  nick- 
names given  respectively  to  Freder- 
ick v.,  elector  palatine  (Ger.  pfah- 
(]rnf\  Eng.  pa/srp-ave),  and  to  his 
wife  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  .lames  I. 
of  England.  See  Wixtek  King 
and  Winter  Queen. 

Good  Physician.  A  title  applied  to 
Chri.st,  doubtless  in  allusion  to  the 
passage  in  Mark  ii.  17,  —  "  They 
that  are  whole  have  no  need  of  thf 
physician,  but  they  that  are  sick :  J 
came  not  to  call  the  righteous,  bul 
sinners,  to  repentance." 

Good  Queen  Bess.  See  Bess,  Good 
(.Juken. 

Good  Regent.  A  name  given  to 
James  Stewart,  Earl  of  ]\Iurray,  or 
Moray  (1531-1570),  appointed  regent 
of  Scotland  in  15G7,  after  the  impris- 
onment of  his  sister,  Mary  Queen  of 
Scots,  in  Lochleven  castle.  He  was 
distinguished  for  his  zeal  and  pru- 
dence, and  lor  the  prompt  and  vigor- 


For  the  "  Key  to   the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explr.natioD^ 


GOO 


153 


GOT 


0U9  measures  he  adopted  to  secure 
tlie  peace  of  the  kingdom. 

Good  Samaritan.  The  principal  char- 
acter in  a  well-linown  parable  of  our 
Lord.     See  Luke  x.  30-37. 

Good  Shepherd.  A  title  often  ap- 
plied to  Clirist. 

I  am  the  (lood  shepherd,  and  know  my 
sheep,  and  am  known  of  mine.  .  .  .  and  I 
la^'  down  my  life  for  the  sheep.  And  other 
sheep  I  liave',  whieli  are  not  of  this  fold:  them 
also  I  must  brinjr,  and  they  shall  hear  my 
voice;  and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one 
shepherd.  John  x.  14-U!. 

Goody  Blake.  A  character  in  Words- 
worth's poem  entitled  ''Goody  IJlake 
and  HaiTV  Gill,"  which  purports  to 
be ''A  True  Stor}'."  She  is  repre- 
sented as  a  poor  old  dame,  Avho, 
driven  by  necessity  to  pilfer  a  few 
sticks  of  wood  from  her  neighbor's 
ground,  in  the  winter-cold,  is  detect- 
ed by  him  in  the  act,  and  forced  to 
relinquish  what  she  had  taken.  In 
requital,  she  invokes  upon  him  the 
curse  that  he  may  "  never  more  be 
warm;"  and  ever  after,  "his  teeth 
they  chatter,  chatter  still." 

Goody  Two-shoes.  The  name  of  a 
well-known  character  in  the  litera- 
ture of  the  nursery.  Her  "  History  " 
was  tirst  published  by  Newbery,  a 
bookseller  in  St.  Paul's  Church-yard, 
renowned  throughout  the  latter  half 
of  the  last  century  for  his  picture- 
books  for  children;  and  it  is  thought 
to  have  been  written  by  Goldsmith. 

iEg="  "  The  famous  nursery  story  of 
'  Goody  Two-shoes '  .  .  .  appeai-ed  ia 
1765,  at  a  moment  when  Goldsmith  was 
scribbling  for  Newbery,  and  much  pressed 
for  funds.  Several  quaint  little  tnles  in- 
troduceil  in  his  Essays  show  that  he  had 
a  turn  for  this  species  of  mock  history  ; 
and  the  advertisement  and  title-page  bear 
the  stamp  of  his  sly  and  playful  humor. 

'' '  We  are  desired  to  give  notice  that 
there  is  in  the  press,  and  speedily  will  be 
published,  either  bv  subscription  or 
otherwise,  as  the  public  shall  please  to 
.  determine,  the  History  of  Little  Goody 
Two  Shoes,  otherwise  Mrs.  Margery  Two 
Shoes :  with  the  means  by  which  she 
acquired  learning  and  wisdom,  and,  in 
consequence  tliereof.  her  estate  :  set  forth 
at  large  for  the  benefit  of  those 

"  Who  from  a  state  of  ra^s  and  care, 
And  havinir  shoes  but  half  a  pair, 
Their  fortune  and  their  fame  should  fix. 
And  gallop  in  »  coach  and  six."'  " 


Pray  don't  go  on  in  that  Goody  Two-shoe* 
sort  of  way.  A.  lYoUoije. 

Goosey  Go'de-rich.  A  popular  nick- 
name given  by  Cobbett  to  l-rederick 
lioi)iiisun  (created  Viscount  (ioderich 
in  1827,  and  Earl  (»f  IJijxtn  in  18.}3), 
on  account  of  his  incapacity  as  a 
statesman.  He  was  premier  for  a 
short  time  in  1827-28.  See  Piius- 
PEKiTY  Robinson. 

Gor'di-us.  [Gr.  r6p5io?.]  A  peasant 
who  became  king  of  Phrygia,  and 
father  of  Midas.  He  tied  an  inextri- 
cable knot  on  the  yoke  of  his  eiiariot, 
and  an  oracle  declared  that  whoever 
should  untie  it  would  reign  over  all 
Asia.  Alexander  the  Great  cut  tlie 
knot  with  his  sword,  and  applied  the 
prophecy  to  himself. 

Gorgibus  (gor'zhe-biiss',  34).  The 
name  of  an  honest,  simple-minded 
burgess,  in  Moliere's  comedy,  "  Les 
Precieuses  Ridicules."  His  distress, 
perplexity,  and  resentment  are  rep- 
resented as  being  extreme,  and  as 
all  occasioned  by  the  perverse  atfec- 
tation  of  elegance  of  his  daughter 
and  niece. 

Gor'gons.  [Gr.  rop^ofe?,  Lat.  Gor- 
.f/oHt8.]  (Gr.  (^  Earn.  Myth.)  Three 
daugliters  of  Phorcus  and  Ceto, 
named  Stheno,  Euryale,  and  Mediisa. 
Their  hair  was  entwined  with  hissing 
serpents,  and  their  bodies  were  cov- 
ered with  impenetrable  scales;  tliey 
had  wings,  and  brazen  claws,  and 
enormous  teeth,  and  whoever  looked 
upon  them  was  turned  to  stone.  The 
name  Gurfjon  was  given  more  espe- 
cially to  Medusa,  the  only  one  of  the 
sisters  who  was  mortal.  She  was 
killed  by  Perseus,  and  her  head  was 
fixed  on  the  shield  of  Minerva. 
From  her  blood  sprang  the  winged 
horse  Pegasus. 

Gosling,  Giles.  Landlord  of  the 
"Black  Bear"  inn  at  Cumnor,  in 
Scott's  novel  of  "  Kenihvorth." 

Gospel  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Evan- 
(jtlicuA.]  A  title  given  to  Wycliffe 
(d.  1384),  the  celel)rated  reformer,  on 
account  of  his  ardent  attachment  to 
the  Holy  Scriptures. 

Go'tham.     A  popular  name  for  the 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


GOT 


154 


GRA 


city  of  New  York ;  —  first  fjiven  to  it 
in  ''  Salmagundi  "  (a  hunioroiis  work 
by  Washington  Irving,  W'ill-iani  Ir- 
ving, and  .lames  K.  I'aulding),  he- 
cause  tlie  inhabitants  were  such  wise- 
acres. 

;e®"  The  allusion  to  the  "  three  wise 
men  of  Gotham  "  who  '"  went  to  sea  iu  a 
bowl  "  is  very  obvious.  The  (iotham 
here  referred  to  is  a  parish  iu  Notting- 
hamshire, Kn-Jiland,  whicli  has  long  been 
celebrated  —  like  tUe  Pbrygia  of  the  Asi- 
atics, the  Abdera  of  the  Thraciaus,  the 
Boeotia  of  the  Greeks,  and  the  Swabia  of 
the  mole ru  Germans  —  for  the  remark- 
able stupidity  of  its  inhabitants.  They 
are  said  to  have  heard  the  cuckoo  upon  a 
certain  occasion,  but.  never  having  seen 
her,  liedged  the  bush  from  which  the  note 
proceeded.  A  busli  is  still  shown  there 
called  the  '-cuckoo-bush."  Fuller  says, 
'•The  proverb  of  "as  wise  as  a  man  of 
Gotham  '  p.isseth  publicly  for  the  periph- 
rasis of  a  fool ;  and  a  hundred  fopper- 
ies are  forged  and  fathered  ou  the  towns- 
folk of  Gotham."  Wharton,  speaking  of 
'•  tne  idle  prauks  of  the  men  of  Gotham,"' 
observes,  that  "such  pranks  bore  a  ref- 
ereiice  to  some  customary  law  tenures 
belonging  to  that  place  or  its  neighbor- 
hood, now  grown  obsolete."  Ilearue,  in 
allu.sion  to  this  subject,  also  remarks, 
'•  Nor  is  there  more  reason  to  esteem 
'  The  Merry  Tales  of  the  Mad  Men  of 
Gotham  '  (which  were  much  valued  and 
cried  up  in  the  time  of  Henry  VIII., 
though  now  sold  at  ballad-singers'  stalls) 
as  altogether  romance  ;  a  certain  skillful 
person  having  told  me,  more  than  once, 
that  they  formerly  held  lands  there  by 
such  customs  as  are  touched  upon  in  this 
book.''  The  book  is  that  noticed  by  Wal- 
pole,  — "'The  Merry  Tales  of  the  Mad 
Men  of  Gothim,'  a  book  extremely  ad- 
mired, and  often  reprinted  in  that  age, 
written  by  [jucas  de  Heere,  a  Flemish 
painter,  who  resided  in  England  at  the 
time  of  Elizabeth.'"  Wood,  however,  tells 
us  that  the  tales  were  written  by  one 
Andrew  Borde  (or  Andreas  Perforatus,  as 
he  calls  himself),  a  sort  of  traveling 
quack,  from  whom  the  name  and  occu- 
pation of  the  "  Merry -andrew  "  are  .said 
to  be  derived.  There  is  an  ancient  black- 
letter  edition  of  the  work  in  the  Bodleian 
Library  at  Oxford,  called  "  Certeine  Merry 
Tales  "of  the  Mad  Men  of  Gotham,  com- 
piled in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII..  by 
Dr.  Andrew  Borde,  an  eminent  physician 
«f  that  period."  Another  derivation 
of  the  phrase  ''  wise  men  of  Gotham," 
given  in  Thoroton's  "  Nottingham- 
shire," is,  that  when  King  John,  in  one 
of  his  '•  progresses,"  was  about  to  pass 


through  Gotham  toward  Nottingham,  he 
was  prevented  by  the  iniiabitauts,  who 
thougnt  that  the  ground  over  which  a 
king  pa.«sed  became  for  ever  after  a  public 
road.  The  king  was  natur.ill..  incensed 
at  this  incivihty,  and  .sent  some  p<'rsons 
to  punish  the  inhabifcmts,  who  bethought 
themselves  of  an  expedient  for  avoiding 
the  kuigs  wrath.  The  me.«.sengers,  on 
their  arrival,  found  all  tue  people  en- 
gaged in  some  foolish  occupation  or  other, 
80  that  they  rt-turned  to  the  court,  and 
reported  that  Gotham  was  a  village  of 
fools. 

4tg=  The  Germans  have  an  old  tale 
called  the  "  Schildburger,"  which  cor- 
responds to  our  '•  Wise  Men  of  Gotham," 
and  which  first  appeared  in  1598. 

Gott'helf,  Jeremias.  A  poor  villager 
who  is  the  hero  of  a  touching  story 
entitled  "  The  Mirror  of  Peasants," 
written  by  Albert  Bitzius  (1797- 
1854),  a  very  popular  Swiss  author, 
who  afterwards  used  the  name  as  a 
pseudonym. 

Governor  of  Tilbury.  See  Til- 
bury, Governor  of. 

Gow'er,  The  Moral.  A  name  given 
by  Chaucer,  in  the  dedication  of  his 
"•  Troilus  and  Cresseide,"  and  subse- 
quently by  Lydgate  and  others,  to 
John  Gower,  a  celebrated  English 
poet  of  the  fourteenth  century,  who 
wrote  a  poem  called  "  ConJ'essio  Ainan- 
tis,  '  which  discusses,  in  a  solemn  and 
sententious  style,  the  morals  and  met- 
aphysics of  love. 

O  Moral  Gorrer .'  this  book  I  direct 
To  thee  and  to  the  philosophical  Strood, 

To  vouchsanf  there  need  is  to  correct 
Of  your  benignities  and  zeale.s  good. 

Chaucer. 

Gowk-thrap'ple,  Maister.  A  cove- 
nanting preacher  referred  to  as  a 
"  chosen  vessel,"  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  '*  Waverley." 

[Naijreon,  author  of  a  life  of  Diderot]  a  man 
of  coarse,  mechanical,  perhaps  rather  intrin- 
sically feeble  intellect,  and  then  with  the 
vehemence  of  some  pulpit-druinininir  Gowk- 
thrui)/>!e,  or  precious  Mr.  Jabesh  Ren  towel, — 
only  that  his  kirk  is  of  the  other  conipiexion. 

Carlyle. 

Graal.     See  St.  Graal. 

Graces.  [Lat.  Gmfio'..']  {Gr.  (f 
Rom.  Mjith.)  Three  sister-goddesses, 
daughters  of  .Jupiter  and  Kurvnome, 
represented  as  beautiful  and  modest 
virgins  attendant  upon  Venus.  They 


t^  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   Explanations. 


GRA 


155 


GRA 


Tfere  the  source  of  all  favor,  loveli- 
ness, and  grace.  Tlieir  names  were 
Ag-laia,  Euplirosyne,  and  Tlialia. 

Q-ra'ci-o'sa  (gra'shi-o'sS).  A  lovely 
princess  in  an  old  and  popular  fairy 
tale,  —  the  ohject  of  the  implacable 
ill-will  of  a  step-mother  named  Gro- 
gnon,  whose  malicious  designs  are 
perpetually  thwarted  by  Percinet,  a 
fairy  prince,  who  is  in  love  with 
Graciosa. 

Oracioso  (gra-the-o'zo).  A  panto- 
mimic character  in  the  popular  com- 
edy of  Spain,  noted  tor  his  drollery, 
and  corresponding  with  the  Italian 
Harlequin  and  English  clown. 

je®=°  Amid  all  these,  and  more  accepta- 
ble than  almost  the  whole  put  together, 
was  the  all-licensed  fool,  the  Gracioso  of 
the  Spanish  drama,  who,  with  his  cap 
fashioned  into  the  resemblance  of  a  cox- 
comb, and  his  bauble,  a  truncheon  ter- 
minated by  a  carved  figure  wearing  a 
fool's-cap,  in  his  hand,  went,  came,  and 
returned,  mingling  in  every  scene  of  the 
piece,  and  interrupting  the  business, 
without  having  any  share  hmiself  in  the 
action,  and  ever  and  anon  transferring  his 
gibes  from  the  actors  on  the  stage  to  the 
audience  who  sat  around,  prompt  to  ap- 
plaud the  whole.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

^radasso  (grS-dSs'so,  102).  The  name 
of  a  king  of  Sericana,  who  figures  in 
Bqjardo's  "  Orlando  Innamorato " 
and  Ariosto's  "  Orlando  Furioso  "  as 
a  wonder  of  martial  prowess.  Insti- 
gated by  a  desire  of  winning  the 
sword  and  courser  of  Rinaldo,  he  in- 
vades France,  followed  by  his  vassals, 
"  crowned  kings,"  who  never  dare  to 
address  him  but  on  their  knees.  The 
name  is  popularly  used  by  the  Ital- 
ians to  designate  a  bully. 

Grad'grind,  Thomas.  A  practical, 
utilitarian  character  in  Dickens's 
novel  of  "  Hard  Times."  ''A  man 
of  realities.  A  man  of  facts  and  cal- 
culations. A  man  who  proceeds 
upon  the  principle  that  two  and  two 
are  four,  and  nothing  over,  and  who 
is  not  to  be  talked  into  allowing  for 
any  thing  over.  .  .  .  With  a  rule 
and  a  pair  of  scales  and  the  multipli- 
cation-table always  in  his  pocket, 
sir,  ready  to  weigh  and  measure  any 
parcel  of  human  nature,  and  tell  you 
exactlv  what  it  comes  to." 


The  Gradgrimh  undervalue  and  dlsparag* 
it,  and  the  .K'BiiiU  and  their  Hyni|mthi/,i!rs  fira 
enraged  at  it.  Vhura/i  Jie.view. 

Grail,  The  Holy.     See  St.  Ghaal. 

Gram.  (gram).  A  sword  of  trenchant 
sliarpness  owned  by  Siegfried.     See 

SlEGKKIED. 

Granary  of  Evirope.  A  name  an- 
ciently given  to  the  island  of  Sicily, 
on  account  of  its  fertility. 

Grand  Alliance.  (Hist.)  A  treaty 
between  England,  Leopold  I.,  em- 
peror of  Germany,  and  the  States 
General,  signed  at  Vienna,  May  12, 
1689.  To  this  treaty  the  king  of 
Spain  (Charles  II.)  and  the  Duke  of 
Savoy  (Victor  Amadeus  II.)  acceded 
in  1690.  Its  objects  were  "  to  pro- 
cure satisfaction  to  his  imperial  maj- 
esty in  regard  to  the  Spanish  succes- 
sion, obtain  security  to  the  English 
and  Dutch  for  their  dominions  and 
commerce,  prevent  a  union  of  the 
monarchies  of  France  and  Spain,  and 
hinder  the  French  from  possessing 
the  Spanish  dominions  in  America." 

Grand  Corrupter.  A  name  given  to 
Sir  Robert  Walpole  (1676-1745)  in 
the  libels  of  his  time,  and  by  his 
political  opponents. 

Grand  Elector.    See  Great  Elect- 

OK. 

Grand    Gousier,    or    Grangousier 

(gron'goo'se^').  [Fr.,  great  gullet.] 
The  father  of  Gargantua,  in  Rabe- 
lais' romance  of  this  name ;  thought 
by  some  to  have  been  designed  to 
represent  Louis  XII.  of  France,  by 
others,  John  d'Albret,  king  of  Na- 
varre. 
Gran'di-son,  Sir  Charles  (-sn).  The 
hero  of  Richardson's  novel  entitled 
"  The  History  of  Sir  Charles  Grandi- 
son."  In  this  character,  Richardson 
designed  to  represent  his  ideal  of  a 
perfect  hero,  —  a  union  of  the  good 
Christian  and  the  perfect  English 
gentleman. 

£fg=-  "  All  this  does  well  enough  in  a 
faneral  sermon  or  monumental  inscrip- 
tion, where,  bv  privilege  of  suppressing 
the  worst  qnalities  and  ex^ggcmting  the 
better,  such  imaires  of  perfection  are 
sometimes  presented.  Rut.  in  the  living 
world,  a  state  of  trial  and  a  valley  of  tears, 


end  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


GRA 


156 


GRE 


Buch  unspotted  worth,  such  iinvarjing 
p«»rfi'ttit>ii.  is  not  to  be  met  with  ;  it  could 
not,  if  we  .-iupptjse  it  to  liave  existence, 
be  attended  with  all  those  favors  of  for- 
tune whicli  are  accumulated  upou  Rich- 
ardson's hero  ;  and  hence  the  fatal  ob- 
jection of  Sir  Charles  Grandison  being  the 

'faultless  monster  that  the  world  ne'er  saw.' " 
:Sir  IV.  iicott. 

If  we  are  by  accident  alone,  I  become  as 
silent  as  a  Turk,  as  formal  as  Sir  C/iarks 
Grandison.  Sir  E.  Bulwcr  Lytlon. 

Gran'di-son  Crom'well  (-sn).  A 
nickname  givLii  by  Mirabcau  to 
Lafayette,  whom  he  looked  upon  as 
an  ambitious  man  without  power, 
and  one  who  would  coquet  with  the 
supreme  authority  without  daring  to 
seize  it,  or,  indeed,  possessing  the 
means  of  doing  so. 

jefg=  "  There  are  nicknames  of  Mira- 
beau's  worth  whole  treatises.  '  Grandi- 
son Cromwell'  Lafayette,  —  write  a  toI- 
ume  on  the  man,  as  many  volumes  have 
been  written,  and  try  to  say  more.  It  is 
the  best  likeness  yet  drawn  of  him." 

Carlyle. 

Grand  Monarque,  Le  (lugro"mo'- 
nark',  62).  [Kr.,  the  great  monarch.] 
A  title  often  applied  to  Louis  XIV. 
(1638-1715),  one  of  the  most  remark- 
able rulers  that  ever  sat  on  the  throne 
of  France.  In  his  long  reign  of  sev- 
enty-two years,  he  reared  the  fabric 
of  the  absolute  monarchy  which  con- 
tinued for  more  than  seventy-two 
years  after  his  death,  when  it  was 
shaken  to  pieces  in  the  storms  of  the 
Revolution;  yet  the  ruling  principles 
of  his  administration  —  unitbrmity 
and  centralization  —  survived  the 
^vreck,  and  France  is  still  governed 
by  them. 

"WTien  it  came  to  courtship,  and  your  field 
of  preferment  was  the  Versailles  CEil-de-Boeuf, 
and  a  Grand  Jfonm-Qve  walkin^:  encircled 
with  scarlet  women  and  adulators  there,  the 
course  of  the  Mirabeaus  grew  stiU  more  com- 
plicated. Carlyle. 

Grandmother's  Review,   My.      A 

nickname  given  to  the  "  British  Re- 
view." a  quarterly  periodical  owned 
and  edited  by  a  Mr.  Roberts,  whom 
Byron  jocosely  accused  of  having  re- 
ceived a  bribe  from  him.  Mr.  Rob- 
erts was  foolish  enough  to  take  the 
matter  quite  seriously,  declared  that 
the  chartre  was  an  absolute  falsehood, 
and  challenged  Byron  to  name  how 


I  and  when  the  bribe  was  given.  By- 
ron responded  in  an  amusing  letter, 
and  turned  the  laugh  against  bis  op- 
ponent. 

"  I  bribed  M>j  Grandmamma's  Jieri>7w,  the 
British."  Jjon  Juon. 

Am  1  flat,  —  !  tip  ^f!/  Grandmother  vi  bit  of 
prose.  Am  I  dunned  into  sourness,— 1  cut 
up  some  deistical  fellow  for  the  Quarterly. 

Soctes  Anit/ro^iancB. 

Grane  (gra'na).  A  horse  of  marvel- 
ous  swittne.ss    owned   by    Sieglried. 

See    SlEGFKIED. 

Granite  State.  A  popular  name  for 
the  .State  of  New  Ham]>shire,  the 
moimtainous  portions  of  which  are 
largely  composed  of  granite. 

Gratiano.  1.  (grii'she-a'no.)  A  friend 
to  Antonio  and  Bas.'-anio.  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Merchant  of  Venice." 

2.  Brother  to  Brabantio.  in  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of  "  Uthello." 

3.  (gra-tse-a'no.)  A  character  in 
the  Italian  popular  dramatic  enter- 
tainment called  "  conntitdid  dtW 
arte.'''  He  is  represented  as  a  Bo- 
lognese  doctor,  and  has  a  mask  witii 
a  black  nose  and  forehead  and  red 
cheeks;  his  character  is  that  of  a 
pedantic  and  tedious  proser. 

Gray.  1.  (Auld  Robin.)  The  title  of 
an  ancient  and  celebrated  ballad  by 
Lady  Anne  Lindsay  (alterward  Lady 
Barnard),  and  the  name  of  its  hero, 
a  good  old  man  married  to  a  poor 
young  girl  whose  lover  was  thought 
to  have  been  lost  at  sea,  but  who 
returns  to  claim  her  hand  a  month 
after  her  marriage. 

2.  (Barry.)  A  pseudonym  of 
Robert  Barry  CofKn,  an  American 
Avriter  whose  sketches  first  appeared 
in  the  "  Home  .lournal." 

3.  (Duncan.)  The  hero  of  a  ballad 
of  the  same  name  by  Burns. 

4.  (Mary-)  See  Bell,  Bessy. 
Greal.    See  St.  Graal. 

Great  Bastard.  [Fr.  Le  Grand  Ba- 
tdrd.]  A  sobriquet  or  surname  given 
to  Antoinede  Bourgogne  (1421-1504), 
a  natural  son  of  Philip  the  Good, 
Duke  of  Bourgogne.  He  was  cele- 
brated for  his  bravery. 

Great  Captain.  [Sp.  R'l  Gran  Capi- 
inn.']  1.  (ionsalvo  de  Cordova  ( 1453- 
1515),    a    distinguished    general   of 


IR|-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationi, 


GRE 


157 


GRE 


Spain.    He  was  sent  by  Ferdinand 

and  Isabella  to  assist  their  kinsman, 
Ferdiiiaiid  II.  of  Naples,  in  recover- 
ing his  kingdom  from  the  I'rench. 
It  was  in  the  campaign  of  149G,  in 
which  he  drove  the  brench  (who  a 
year  before  had  possessed  the  whole 
kingdom)  entirely  out  of  Sicily,  that 
he  was  hailed  by  his  soldiers  as  the 
Great  Captain,  a  name  by  which  he 
was  ever  afterward  familiarly  known 
throughout  Europe. 

They  [the  people  of  India]  could  show 
bankers  richer  than  the  rieliest  firms  of  Bar- 
celona and  Cadiz,  viceroys  whose  sjjlendor 
far  snrpasscd  that  of  Fcidinand  tlie  Catholic, 
myriads  of  cavalry,  and  lonir  trains  of  artillery 
which  would  have  astonished  the  Greot  Cap- 
tain. Jlaeaulai/. 

The  great  Castilian  heroes,  such  as  the  Cid, 
Bernardo  del  Carpio,  and  Pelavo,  are  even 
now  an  essential  portion  of  tFie  faitli  and 
poetry  of  the  common  people  of  Spain,  and 
are  still  in  some  degree  honored,  as  they  were 
honored  in  the  age  of  the  Great  Captain. 

'licknor. 

2.  A  surname  of  Manuel  I.  (1120- 
1180),  emperor  of  Trebizond. 

Great  Qham  of  Literature.  A  name 
given  to  Dr.  Johnson  by  Smollett,  in 
a  letter  to  John  Wilkes.  See  Bos- 
well's  "  Life  of  Johnson,"  vol.  ii. 
chap.  iii. 

This  [a  prologue  for  the  comedvof'The 
Good-natured  Man  "]  immediately  hccame  au 
object  of  great  solicitude  with  Goldsmith, 
knowing  the  weiglit  an  introduction  from  the 
Great  Cham  of  Literature  would  have  with 
the  public.  W.  Irving. 

Great  Commoner.  William  Pitt 
(Earl  of  Chatham),  a  famous  parlia- 
mentary orator,  and  for  more  than 
thirty  years  (1735-1766)  a  leader  in 
the  House  of  Commons. 

We  leave  the  Great  Commoner  in  the  zenith 
of  liis  glory.  Mucaulay. 

Great  Dauphin.  [Fr.  Le  Grand  Duvr- 
pliin.]  A  name  given  by  French  his- 
torians to  tlie  son  of  Louis  XIV.  He 
was  born  in  1661,  and  died  in  1711. 
See  Little  Dauphin. 

Great  Duke.  A  title  bv  which  the 
Duke  of  Wellington  (1769-1852)  is 
often  distinguished. 

Burv  the  Great  Did-e 

With  an  empire's  lamentation. 
Let  us  bury  the  (freat  Duke 

To  the  iioise  of  the  mourning  of  a  mighty 
nation.  Tenmjson. 

Great  Earl.  A  surname  sometimes 
given  to  Archibald  Douglas  (d.  1514),  I 


Earl  of  Ane^us.  He  is  better  known 
as  ArclilbaUl  Bell-tht-Cai.  See  Bell- 
thk-Cat. 

Great  Earl  of  Cork.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Richard  Boyle  (1566- 
1643),  Earl  of  Cork,  a  nobleman  who, 
possessing  the  largest  estate  of  any 
English  subject  at  that  period,  devot- 
ed it,  in  the  most  generous  manner, 
to  promoting  public  improvements. 

Great  Elector,  [Ger.  Grosse  Kur- 
furst.^  A  surname  given  to  Fred- 
erick William,  elector  of  Branden- 
burg (1620-1688),  a  sovereign  dis- 
tinguished for  his  military  genius 
and  his  private  virtues,  for  the  pru- 
dence and  wisdom  with  which  he 
administered  the  civil  government, 
and  for  the  zeal  and  success  with 
which  he  labored  to  augment  the 
prosperity  of  his  dominions,  and  to 
promote  the  welfare  of  his  people. 
He  is  regarded  as  the  founder  of  the 
Prussian  greatness,  and  his  reign 
gave  to  the  country  the  military 
character  which  it  still  bears. 

Great-heart,  Mr.  A  character  in  the 
"Pilgrim's  Progress"  of  Bunvan, 
represented  as  the  guide  of  Christian's 
wife  and  children  upon  their  journey 
to  the  Celestial  City. 

Great  Ma^cian.  An  appellation  of 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  given  to  him  on 
account  of  the  singular  fascination 
he  exercises  over  his  readers  by  his 
remarkable  power  of  description  and 
his  charming  style.  The  designation 
was  originated  by  Professor  John 
W^ilson  in  a  poem  called  "  The  Magic 
Mirror,"  addressed  to  Scott,  and 
published  in  the  Edinburgh  "Annual 
Register"  for  1812. 

And  when    once  more  the  gracious   vision 

spoke, 
I  felt  the  voice  familiar  to  mine  ear; 
While  many  a  fiuled  <lreani  of  earth  awoke. 
Connected  strangely  with  that  unknown 
seer. 
Who  now  stretched  forth  his  arm,  and  on  th» 

sand 
A  circle  round  me  traced,  as  with  magician's 
wand.  frof.  J.  Wilson. 

See  Wizard  of  the  North. 

Then  spake  the  man  clothed  in  plain  ap- 
parel to  the  Great  Magician  who  dwelleth  in 
the  old  fastness,  hard  bv  the  river  Jordan 
[Tweed!,  which  is  bv  the'Border. 

Chaldee  MS.,'BIackwooil's  Mag.  (1SI7). 

Great  Marquis.    1.  A  title  given  to 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


GRE 


158 


GRE 


James  Graham,  Marquis  of  Montrose 
(1612-1650),  on  account  of  his  heroic 
deeds  in  the  cause  of  Charles  I. 

I've  told  tlu'f  liow  we  swept  Dundee, 
And  tamed  the  l^indsay's  pride, 

But  never  have  I  told  thee  yet 
How  the  Ortat  Marquis  died.        Aytoun. 

2.  A  name  given  by  the  Portu- 
guese peasantry  to  Dom  Sebastiao 
Jose  de  Carvalho,  Marquis  de  Pom- 
bal  (1099-178-2),  the  greatest  of  all 
Portuguese  statesmen,  and  one  of  the 
ablest  men  of  his  time. 

Great  Mogul.  The  title  by  which 
the  chief  of  the  Moguls,  or  of  the 
empire  founded  in  Hindostan  by 
Baber  in  tbe  fifteenth  century,  was 
known  in  Europe.  The  last  person 
to  whom  this  title  of  right  belonged 
was  Shah  AUum,  at  whose  death,  in 
1806,  the  Mogul  empire  came  to  an 
end. 

Great  Moralist.  A  title  often  applied 
to  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson  (1709-1784), 
in  allusion  to  the  ethical  chaiMcter 
of  his  writings,  particularly  his  es- 
says, from  which  Goldsmith  said  a 
complete  system  of  morals  might  be 
drawn. 

Dr.  Johnson  thoufrht  life  had  few  things 
better  than  the  excitation  produced  by  beinj; 
whirled  rapidly  along  in  a  post-chnife;  but  he 
who  has  in  youth  oxijerieneed  the  confident 
and  indcponHent  feeliuf;  of  a  stout  pedestrian 
in  an  intercstinj;  country,  and  during  fine 
weather,  will  hold  the  taste  of  the  Gre(tt  ^fnr- 
aliit  cheap  in  comparison.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Great  Unknown.  A  name  given  to 
the  author  of  the  "  Waverley  Novels," 
which,  on  their  first  appearance,  Avere 
published  anonymously,  and  Avhich 
nnmediately  acquired  an  extraordi- 
nary degree  of  popularity.  The  epi- 
thet was  originated  by  James  Bal- 
lantyne. 

tt^  "  The  circumstance  of  Scott's  hav- 
ing publisheil  a  poem  ia  the  same  year  in 
which  '  Waverley  '  appeared,  and  his  en- 
gagement in  other  literary  undertakings 
being  known,  combined,  with  the  com- 
mon prejudice  that  a  poet  cannot  excel  as 
ji  prose-writer,  to  avert  from  him  for  a 
time  the  suspicion  of  the  authorship  of 
the  '  ^\^•lve^lev  ■•  novels.  The  taciturnity 
of  the  few  intrusted  with  the  secret  de- 
feated all  attempt  to  obtain  direct  evi- 
dence as  to  who  wa.s  the  author.  From 
the  fir.st.  however,  suspicion  pointed 
strongly  toward  Scott ;  and  so  manj'  cir- 
cumstances tended  to  strengthen  it,  that 


the  disclosures  from  Constable's  and  BaV 
lautyne's  books,  and  his  own  confession, 
scarcely  increased  the  moral  conviction 
which  had  long  prevailed,  that  he  was 
the  '  Great  Unknown.^ '''  En^.  Cyc. 

Great  "Witch  of  Bal-w6r'y.  A  name 
popularly  given  to  one  Margaret 
Aiken,  a  Scotchwoman  of  the  latter 
part  of  the  sixteenth  century,  who, 
on  being  accused  of  witchcraft,  and 
subjected  to  torture,  made  a  pretended 
confession  of  guilt,  and,  in  order  to 
save  her  life,  informed  upon  others, 
asserting  that  they  had  a  secret  mark 
in  their  eyes  b}'  which  she  knew 
them  for  witches.  She  was  carried 
about  the  country  for  the  sake  of  de- 
tecting such  emissaries  of  the  Devil. 

Greaves,  Sir  Laun'ce-lSt.  The  title 
of  a  novel  by  Smollett  (a  sort  of 
travesty  of  "  Don  Quixote  " ),  and  the 
name  of  its  hero,  a  well-born  young 
English  squire  of  the  time  of  George 
II.,  handsome,  virtuous,  and  enlight- 
ened, but  crack-brained,  who  sets 
out,  attended  by  an  old  sea-captain 
for  his  Sancho  Panza,  to  act  "  as  co- 
adjutor to  the  law,  and  even  to  rem- 
edy evils  Avhich  the  law  cannot  reach ; 
to'detect  fraud  and  treason,  abase 
insolence,  mortify  pride,  discourage 
slander,  disgrace  immodesty,  and  stig- 
matize ingratitude." 

Greece,  The  Two  Eyes  of.  See 
Two  Eyes  of  Gkeece,  The. 

Greek  Commentator.  A  title  given 
to  Fernan  Nunez  de  Guzman  (1488- 
1552),  on  account  of  his  philological 
lectures,  delivered  in  the  University 
of  Salamanca. 

Green,  George  a-.  See  George  a- 
Gkeen. 

Green-Bag  Inquiry.  {Enfj.  Hist.)  A 
name  given  to  an  investigation  into 
the  nature  of  a  green  bag  containing 
Reports  on  the  state  of  the  country 
(alleged  to  be  papers  of  seditious  im- 
port), which  was  laid  before  parlia- 
ment by  the  prince  regent,  Feb.  3, 
1817.  These  Reports  were  referred 
to  secret  committees,  and  in  accord- 
ance with  their  recommendations  the 
Habeas  Corpus  Act  was  suspended 
(March  3),  and  other  coercive  meas- 
ures adopted. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pionunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explaaations, 


GRE 


159 


GRU 


Green-eyed  Monster.  A  common 
personitication  of  jealousy.  The  ex- 
pression originated  with  Shakespeare. 

Oil,  bewnre,  my  lord,  of  jealousy  ; 

It  is  tlie  (ircen-ei/ed  Jlonstcr  which  doth  mock 

The  meat  it  feeds  ou.  Shak. 

Green  Isle.  Same  as  the  Emerald 
Jsle.     See  Emerald  Isle. 

If  the  Irish  elves  are  any  wise  distinsuished 
from  tliose  of  Britain,  it  seenisto  be  by  their 
disposition  to  divide  into  factions,  and  li}rht 
nnionj;  themselves,  —  a  pugnacity  characteris- 
tic ufthe  Green  Isle.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Green-Mountain  State.  A  popular 
name  of  Vermont,  the  Green  Moun- 
tains being  the  principal  mountain- 
range  in  the  State. 

Greenwood,  Grace.  A  nom  de  jylume 
adopted  by  jNIrs.  Sara  Jane  (Clarke) 
Lippincott,  a  popular  American  au- 
thoress of  the  present  day. 

Gre'mi-o.  A  suitor  to  Bianca,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew." 

Gretchen   (gret'ken).     See  Marga- 

RET. 

Grethel,  Gammer  (greth'el;  Ger. 
pron.  gra^tel).  The  imaginary'  nar- 
rator of  a  series  of  German  nurseiy 
tales,  said  to  have  been  taken  down 
by  the  brothers  Grimm,  from  the  lips 
of  Frau  Viehmiinin,  wife  of  a  peasant 
in  the  neighborhood  of  Hesse  Cassel. 
They  have  been  translated  into  Eng- 
lish. 

Gride,  Axthnr.  An  old  usurer  in 
Dickens's  "  Nicholas  Nickleby." 

Grimes,  Old.     See  Old  Grimes. 

Grin 'go,  Harry.  A  nom  de  plume  of 
Henry  Augustus  Wise  (b.  1819),  an 
American  writer,  author  of  "  Los 
Gringos,"  "Captain  Brand,"  and 
other  works.  Grinfio  is  a  Spanish 
word  meaning  uninttlli(jible. 

Gri-sel'da,  The  Patient.  A  lady 
in  Chaucer's  "  Clerk  of  Oxenford's 
Tale,"  immortalized  by  her  virtue 
and  her  patience.  The  model  of 
womanly  and  wifely  obedience,  she 
comes  victoriously  out  of  the  most 
cruel  and  repeated  ordeals  to  which 
her  conjugal  and  maternal  atfections 
are  subjected.  [Written  also  G  r  i- 
seld,  Grissell,  Grizzell,  Gri- 
seldis.] 


JKg=-  The  story  of  Griselda  was  first 
told  in  the  "  Di-cameron."  Boccaccio 
derived  the  incidents  from  Petrarch, 
who  seems  to  have  communicated  them 
also  to  Chaucer.  About  the  middle  of 
the  sixteenth  century  (156.5),  a  song  of 
"  Patient  Grissel'"  appeared,  and  a  prose 
history  the  same  year.  Tlie  theme  has 
subsequently  been  treated  in  a  great  va- 
riety of  ways. 

For  patience  she  will  prove  a  second  Grissel, 
And  Roman  Lucrece  for  her  chastity. 

Shak. 
He  mipht  cut 
My  body  into  coins  to  give  away 
Among  his  other  paupers;  change  mv  sonn. 
While  I  stood  dumb  as   Grisuld,  for  black 

babes 
Or  piteous  foundlings. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Browning. 

Grognon  (gron'yoi^',  62).    See  Gra- 

CIOSA. 

Grub  Street.  The  former  name  of  a 
street  near  Moorfields,  in  London, 
much  inhabited  by  literary  hacks 
(among  Avhom  Dr.  Johnson  includes 
"the  writers  of  Dictionaries"), 
whence  it  was  proverbially  used  to 
characterize  any  worthless  author,  or 
any  mean  production.  Foxe,  the 
martyrologist,  and  Speed,  the  his- 
torian, resided  in  this  street.  In 
1830,  the  name  was  changed  to 
Milton  Street. 

Let  Budgell  charge  low  Grub  Street   on  his 

quill. 
And   write   whate'er  he  please  —  except  his 

will.  Pope. 

I  'd    sooner   ballads  write,  and   Grub-Street 
lays.  Gay. 

Grum^ble-to'ni-ans.  A  nickname 
sometimes  given  to  those  who  were 
not  of  the  Court  party  in  the  time 
of  William  and  Mar\'.  They  were 
at  times  honored  with  the  name  of 
"  Countr}'  party." 

Gru'mi-o.  A  servant  to  Petrnchio, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew^" 

Grun,  Anastasius  (a-nS-sta'se-oos 
griin,  34.)  A  nom  de  plume  of  Anton 
Alexander  von  Auersperg  (b.  1806), 
a  Gennan  poet. 

Grun'dy,  Mrs.  A  person  frequent- 
ly referred  to  in  IVIorton's  comedy, 
"  Speed  the  Plough,"  but  not  intro- 
duced as  one  of  the  dramntis  persona;. 
The  solicitude  of  Dame  Ashtield,  in 
this  play,  as  to  what  vnll  Mrs.  Grundy 


«nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  number*  after  certain  wordi  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxU. 


GUD 


160 


GUL 


my,  has  given  the  latter  jrreat  celeb- 
rity, the  interrogatory  having  ac- 
quired a  proverbial  currency. 

You  will  be  jileani'd  to  hear  thnt  I  have  hit 
upon  a  niude  ^)fsilti^t'yin;;  the  curiosity  of  our 
frieiul,  ^f)■s.  Grundii,  —  that  is  "  the  world,"  — 
witliout  injury  to  auy  one. 

air  E.  Bulwer  Lytton. 

G-udrun  (goodroon').  1.  A  famous 
mythical  female  character  in  the  Edda 
of  Siiinund,  married,  by  the  magic  arts 
of  her  motlier,  to  Sigurd,  who  was  be- 
trothed to  Hryniiild.  After  the  death 
of  Sigurd,  she  married  King  Atli  [Al- 
tila],  at  the  instance  of  her  mother. 
She  did  not  love  him.  however;  and 
soon  coming  to  hate  him  for  his 
cruelty,  she  took  his  life,  having  lirst 
caused  Iiim  to  drink  out  of  the  skulls, 
and  eat  the  wasted  hearts,  of  their 
two  children,  whom  she  had  mur- 
dered. She  then  sought  to  put  an  end 
to  her  own  wretched  existence  by 
throwing  herself  into  the  sea;  but  the 
wav^es  bore  her  to  the  castle  of  King 
JonakLir,  whom  she  married. 

2  The  heroine  of  a  celebrated 
North-Saxon  poem  supposed  to  have 
been  composed  in  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, and  still  extant  at  Vienna  in  a 
MS.  of  the  tifteentli  century.  It  was 
translated  into  the  modern  High  Ger- 
man in  18  j8.  Gudrun  is  the  daugh- 
ter of  King  Hettel  [Attila],  and  is 
betrothed  to  Herwig,  king  of  Heligo- 
land; but  her  rejected  suitor,  Hart- 
muth,  king  of  Norway,  invades  the 
dominion-;  of  Hettel,  kills  him,  and 
carries  off  (rudrun.  As  she  still  treats 
Hartmuth  with  contempt,  and  refuses 
to  marry  hiui,  she  is  j^ut  to  menial  ser- 
vice, and  is  treated  with  great  indig- 
nity by  his  mother,  Gerlinda,  or  Gir- 
lint.  As  she  is  one  day  washing  linen 
by  the  sea,  she  learns  that  a  fleet  is 
bringing  her  brother  and  her  lover  to 
her  rescue.  She  flings  the  linen  into 
the  sea,  and,  in  order  to  escape  pun- 
ishment for  doing  so,  feigns  that 
she  is  willing  to  marry  Hartmuth. 
But  Herwig  now  appears  on  the  scene, 
gains  a  decisive  victory,  puts  Gerlinda 
to  death,  marries  (iudrun.  and,  at 
her  intercession,  pardons  Hartmuth. 
Gudrun  is  distinguished  as  a  perfect 
model  of  angelic  mercy,  heroic  forti- 
tude, and  pious  resignation. 


Guen'do-len  (gwen'-).  A  dirorced 
wife  of  Locrine.      See  Sahhina. 

Gui-de'ri-us  (gAvi-,  0).  A  son  of 
Cynibeline,  in  Shakes])eare's  play  of 
this  name,  passing  under  the  assumed 
name  of  I'olydore,  and  supjjosed  to 
be  a  son  of  Belarius.  Guiderius,  as 
well  as  Cymbeline,  was  a  legendary 
or  fabulous  king  of  Britain. 

Guil'den-stern  (gil'-).  The  name  of 
a  courtier,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy 
of  "  Hamlet." 

i6£y="  '•  Itosencrantz  ami  Guildenstern 
are  favorable  samples  of  the  thorough- 
pared,  time  -  serving  court  -  knave  ;  serv- 
ants of  all  work,  ticketed,  and  to  be  hired 
for  auy  hard  or  dirty  job." 

Cowden  Clarke. 

Guinart,  Koque.    See   Roque  Gui- 

NAKT. 

Guin'e-ver  (gwin'-).  Queen  to  King 
Arthur,  celebrated  for  her  amours 
with  Lancelot  du  Lac,  and  others. 
Hence  the  name  was  frequently  ap- 
plied to  any  wanton  woman.  Geof- 
frey of  Monmouth  says  that  she  was 
of  a  noble  Roman  lamily,  and  the 
most  beautiful  woman  in  all  Britain. 
[Written  also  G  u  e  n  e  v  e  r,  G  u  i  n- 
e  v  e  r  e  ( gwin 'e-veer' ),  G  u  a  n  h  u- 
m  a  r  a  (gwan^iu-mu'ra ),  (i  e  n  e  u  r  a 
(ge-nu'ra),  Ganora  (ga-no'ra,  9), 
Genievre  (ge'ni-e'ver),  and  Gi- 
n  e  V  r  a  (gi-nev'ra).] 

Gulli-ver,  Lemuel.  The  imaginar}'- 
hero  of  Swift's  celebrated  satirical 
romance  entitled  "  Travels  into  sev- 
eral liemote  Nations  of  the  World,  by 
Lemuel  Gulliver."  He  is  represented 
as  being  first  a  surgeon  in  London, 
and  then  a  captain  of  several  ships. 
After  having  followed  the  sea  for 
some  years,  he  makes  in  succession 
four  extraordinary  voyages,  in  the 
first  of  which  he  gets  wrecked  on  the 
coast  of  Lilliput,  a  countr\-  inhabited 
by  pygmies;  in  the  second,  he  is 
thrown  among  the  people  of  Brobding- 
nag,  who  are  giants  of  a  tremendous 
size;  in  the  '.bird,  he  is  driven  to 
Laputa,  an  empire  of  quack  pretend- 
ers to  science,  knavish  projectors,  and 
sorcerers:  and  in  the  fourth,  he  visits 
the  Houyhnhnms,  a  race  of  horsea 
endowed  with  reason. 


CS~  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  ExplanatioDj^ 


GUL 


IGl 


GUY 


D-ul-nare'.  1.  A  female  character  in 
Byron's  poem  of  **  Tlie  Corsair." 
8he  is  rescued  from  a  burninj^j  harem 
by  Conrad,  and,  becoming  passion- 
ately enamored  of  him,  repays  the 
service  he  has  done  her  by  taking 
the  life  of  tile  pasiia,  Seyd,  into  whose 
hands  Conrad  talis. 

2.  A  character  in  one  of  the  tales 
of  the  "Arabian  Nights'  Entertain- 
ments." 

Gum'mer's  Ore.  A  marvelous  island, 
fabled  to  tloat  in  the  northern  seas,  — 
a  tiction  probably  based  upon  the 
existence  of  some  partly  submerged 
reef  or  shoal.  The  geographer  Bu- 
ricus  placed  this  island  on  his  map 
in  view  of  Stockholm. 

j^=> "  There  is  a  tradition  in  the  north- 
ern seas,  and  upon  the  const  of  Norway, 
that  Heating  islands  may  often  be  seen 
rising  out  of  the  bosom  of  the  waves,  with 
trees  fully  formed,  having  branches  from 
•whieh  hang  shells  instead  of  fruits,  but 
which  disappear  after  some  hours.  Tor- 
fteus,  ia  his  history  of  Norway,  alludes  to 
these.  The  sailors  and  inhabitants  of 
the  coast  regard  these  places  as  the  sub- 
marine habitations  of  evil  spirits,  who 
cause  these  islands  to  rise  to  taunt  navi- 
gators, confuse  their  reckonings,  and  em- 
barrass their  voyages.''  Pichot. 

Gungnir(gdong'nef).  {Scand.  Mj/fh.) 
The  name  of  Odin's  spear  or  lance. 

Gunpowder  Plot.  {Eng.  Hist.)  A 
memorable  conspiracy  for  overthrow- 
ing the  government  by  blowing  up 
the  king,  lords,  and  commons,  at  the 
opening  of  parliament  on  the  5th  of 
November,  1005.  This  diabolical 
scheme  was  projected  by  Robert 
Catesby,  a  Roman  Catholic,  who 
leagued  with  himself  Guy  Fawkes 
and  several  other  persons,  of  the  same 
faith,  who  were  exasperated  by  the 
intolerant  and  persecuting  spirit  of 
James  I.  and  his  ministers.  It  was 
discovered,  however,  on  the  evening 
before  it  was  to  have  been  carried  into 
execution,  and  the  principal  conspira- 
tors were  put  to  death. 

Giinther,  King(giin'tef.  34).  A  hero 
whose  adventures  are  related  in  the 
ancient  (ierman  epic,  the  "  Nibelun- 
gen  Lied;"  l)rother  to  Chriemhild. 

Gurth.  A  Saxon  swine-herd,  the  thrall 


of    Cedric    of    Kotherwood,    in    Sir 
Walter  Scott's  "  Ivanhoe." 

Gur'ton,  Gammer  (-tn).  The  hero- 
ine of  an  old  English  conjedy,  long 
supposed  to  be  the  earliest  in  the 
language,  but  now  ranked  as  the 
second  in  point  of  time.  It  was 
written  about  1501,  by  John  Still, 
afterward  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells. 
The  plot  turns  upon  the  loss  of  a 
needle  by  Gammer  Gurton,  —  a  seri- 
ous event  at  that  period,  especially  in 
a  remote  village,  —  and  the  subse- 
quent discovery  of  it  sticking  in  the 
breeches  of  her  man  Hodge. 

Guzman  de  Alfarache  (gooth- 
nian'  da  al-fa-ra'chS.).  The  hero  of 
a  celebrated  Spanish  novel  written 
by  Mateo  Alcman,  and  first  printed 
at  Madrid,  in  1599.  He  begins  his 
career  as  a  dupe,  but  atterward 
becomes  a  consummate  knave,  and 
exhibits  a  rich  variety  of  gifts  in  the 
various  characters  he  is  compelled  by 
circumstances  to  assume,  such  as 
stable-boy,  beggar,  thief,  coxcomb, 
mercenary,  valet,  pander,  merchant, 
and  the  like. 

Guy,  Sir,  Earl  of  "Warwick.  The 
hero  of  a  famous  English  legend, 
which  celebrates  his  surpassing  prow- 
ess and  the  wonderful  achievements 
by  which  he  obtained  the  hand  of  his 
lady-love,  the  Fair  Felice,  as  well  as 
the  adventui'es  he  subsequently  met 
with  in  a  pilgrimage  to  the  Holy 
I^and,  and  on  his  return  home.  He 
is  reputed  to  have  lived  in  the  reign 
of  the  Saxon  King  Athelstan.  The 
romance  of  Sir  Guy.  mentioned  by 
Chaucer  in  the  "  Canterbury  Tales," 
cannot  be  traced  further  back  than 
the  earlier  part  of  the  fourteenth  cen~ 
tury.  His  existence  at  any  period  is 
very  doubtful. 

4fg="  Among  the  romances  of  the  Angle 
Danish  cycle,  by  no  means  the  least 
celebrated  is  that  of  Guy  of  Warwick. 
It  is  one  of  the  few  which  have  been  pre. 
served  in  the  Anglo-Norman  term  :  antl 
it  has  gone  through  an  extraordinary 
number  of  versions.  Chaucer  enumerat- 
ed  it  among  the  romances  of  pris.  o» 
those  which  in  the  fourteenth  century 
were  held  in  the  highest  estimation. 

Wright. 
The  Lord-keeper  was  scared  by  a  dun  cow. 


»nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 
11 


GUY 


1C2 


GYG 


and  ho  takes  the  young  fellow  who  killed  her 
ior  Guy  of  Warwick.  Sir  H'.  Scott. 

The  conduct  of  the  expedition  was  intru.--ted 
to  a  valiant  IJutchnian,  who  for  size  and 
weight  might  have  matched  with  Colbrand, 
the  Danish  champion  slain  by  Guii  of  War- 
wick. W.  Irving. 

Guy'6n,  Sir(,5!'on).  A  knifrht  whose 
adventures  are  related  in  the  second 
book  of  Spenser's  "  Faerv  Queen." 
To  him  was  assijjned  the  task  of 
bringing  into  snbjection  a  witch, 
Acrasia,  and  of  destroying  her  resi- 
dence, the  Bower  of  Bliss.  Sir  Giiyon 
represents  the  quality  of  Temperance 
in  its  largest  sense;  meaning  that 
virtuous  self-government  which  holds 
in  check  not  only  the  inferior  sensual 
appetites,  but  also  the  impulses  of 


passion  and  the  movements  of  re- 
venge. 

Qy'as.  A  mythical  personage  in  Vir- 
gil's "^neid;"  a  companion  of 
^neas,  noted  for  his  braver}-.  At 
the  naval  games  exhibited  by^Eneas 
in  honor  of  his  father  Anchises,  (iyas 
commanded  the  ship  "  Chima-ra,"'  of 
which  Mencetes  was  the  pilot.  See 
Mencetks. 

Gy'ges.  [Gr.  Tvyrj?.]  {Gr.  (f-  i?07». 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Ccelus  and  Terra, 
a  monstrous  hundred-handed  giant, 
who,  with  his  brothers,  made  war 
upon  the  gods,  and  was  slain  by 
Hercules,  and  subjected  to  everlast- 
ing punishment  in  Tartarus. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronuueiatioii,"  with  the  accompanying  ExplanatUiw, 


HAD 


1G3 


HAM 


H. 


of  the  pame  name,  son  to  the  former, 
and  nephew  to  the  reigning,  king 
of  Denmark. 

;e£g=-"This  is  that  Hamlet  the  Dane 
whom  we  read  of  in  our  youth,  and  whom 
we  seem  almost  to  remember  in  our  after- 
years;  he  who  made  that  famous  solilo- 
quy on  life,  who  gave  the  advice  to  the 
players,  who  thought  '  this  goodly  frame, 
the  earth,  a  sterile  promontory,  and  this 
brave,  o'erhaugiiig  lirmament.  the  air, 
this  uiajestical  roof,  fretted  with  golden 
fire,  a  foul  and  pestilent  congregation  of 
vapors  ; '  wliom  '  man  delighted  not,  nor 
woman  neither ; '  he  wlio  talked  with  the 
grave-diggers,  and  moralized  on  Yorick'a 
skull ;  the  schoolfellow  of  ilosencrautz  and 
Guildenstern  at  Wittenberg;  the  friend 
of  Horatio ;  the  lover  of  Ophelia  ;  he  that 
was  mad  and  sent  to  England  ;  the  slow 
avenger  of  his  father's  death  ;  who  lived 
at  the  court  of  llorwendillus  five  hun- 
dred \e.irs  before  we  were  born,  but  all 
whose  thougiits  we  seem  to  know  as  well 
as  we  do  our  own,  because  we  have  read 
them  in  Shakespeare."  HazliU. 

jgfir"  The  critics  have  been  greatly  di- 
vided in  regard  to  Shakespeare's  intent 
in  this  tragedy  and  character.  Coleridge 
thinks  that  Shakespeare's  purpose  was 
"  to  exhibit  a  character  flying  from  the 
sense  of  reality,  and  seeking  a  reprieve 
from  the  pressure  of  its  duties  in  that 
ideal  activity,  the  overbalance  of  which, 
with  the  consequent  indisposition  to  ac- 
tion, is  Hamlet's  disease."  Hazlitt  says, 
"  It  is  not  a  character  marked  by  strength 
of  passion  or  will,  but  by  refinement  of 
thought  and  feeling.  .  .  .  Ills  ruling 
passion  is  to  think,  not  to  act ;  and  any 
vague  pretense  that  flatters  this  propen- 
sity instantly  diverts  him  from  his  pre- 
vious purposes."  In  Mr.  R.  G.  White's 
view,  "  Hamlet  is  a  man  of  contemplation, 
who  is  ever  diverted  from  his  purposed 
deeds  by  speculation  upon  their  proba- 
ble consequences  or  their  past  causes, 
unless  he  acts  too  quickly,  and  under  too 
much  excitement,  for  any  reflection  to 
present  itself."  Goethe  thought  that 
Shakespeare  designed  to  exhibit  ''  a  love- 
ly, pure,  noble,  and  most  moral  nature, 
without  the  strength  of  nerve  which 
forms  a  hero,  sinking  beneath  a  burden 
which  it  cannot  bear,  and  must  not  cast 
awav."  According  to  Schlegel,  "  the 
whole  [play]  is  intended  to  show  that  a 

and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certaiu  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


Ha'dg§.  [Gr.'AiSr,?, 'AiSt,?.]  (Cr.  c/ 
Jioin.  Afjjt/t.)  The  god  of  the  nether 
world,  the  son  of  Saturn  and  Kliea, 
and  the  brother  of  Jupiter  and  Nep- 
tune. He  is  the  same  as /'/«/('.  The 
name  is  also  applied  to  his  kingdom, 
the  abode  of  the  departed  spirits,  or 
shades.     See  Pluto. 

Ha3'm6n.  [Gr.  Mfx^yi'.]  (  Gr.  if  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Creon  of  Thebes, 
and  a  lover  of  Antigone.  He  is  said 
to  have  destroyed  himself  on  hearing 
that  Antigone'was  condenniedby  her 
father  to  be  entombed  alive. 

Hagen  (ha'gen).  The  murderer  of 
Siegfried  in  the  German  epic,  the 
"  Nibelungen  Lied;"  represented  as 
a  pale-faced  and  one-eyed  dwarf,  of 
demon  origin,  who  knows  every  thing, 
and  whose  sole  desire  is  mischief. 
He  is  at  last  killed  by  Chriemhild, 
Siegft-ied's  wife,  who  strikes  oflt"  his 
head  with  Siegfried's  own  sword. 

Haidee  (hi-deO.  A  beautiful  young 
Greek  girl,  in  Byron's  poem  of  "  Don 
Juan." 

Hajji  Baba.     See  Baba,  Hajji. 

Halcyone.    See  Alcyone. 

Hales,  The  Ever-raemorable  John. 
A  name  often  given  to  John  Hales 
(1584-1656),  an  able  scholar  and  di- 
vine of  the  church  of  England.  The 
epithet  of  "ever-memorable"  was 
first  applied  to  him  after  his  decease, 
in  the  title  pretixed  to  a  collection 
of  his  writings,  called  his  "  Golden 
Remains,"  published  in  1659. 

Ham.'a-dry'ad§.  [Gr.  'A/aaSpvaSe?, 
Lat.  Hdiaadryides.]  ( Gr.  (f-  Rom. 
Myth.)  Nymphs  of  the  woods  who 
were  born  and  died  with  particular 
trees. 

Ham'il-ton,  Gail.  A  pseudonym 
adopted"  by  Miss  Mary  Ah'ifjaU 
Dodge,  of  Hamilton,  Masssachusetts, 
a  popular  American  writer  of  the 
present  day. 

Hamlet.     In   Shakespeare's  tragedy 


HAM 


1G4 


HAR 


•aVculatinpconPuleration,  which  exhausts 
all  the  reliitions  and  possible  con-sequeuces 
of  a  deed,  must  cripple  the  power  of  ac- 
tion." 

Hammer  of  Heretics.  [Fr.  Le 
Marttita  tics  JJeietitjucs.]  1.  A 
sobriquet  ffiven  to  I'ierre  d'Ailly 
(i;350-1425\  a  noted  French  cardinal 
and  polemic,  lie  was  president  ot" 
the  council  of  Constance,  by  which 
John  Huss  was  condeniudd. 

2.  A  surname  ajjplied  to  John 
Faber  (d.  1541),  from  the  title  of 
one  of  his  works.  He  v;as  a  native 
of  Swabia,  and  an  eminent  Roman 
Catholic  divine. 

Hammon.     See  Ammon. 

Hrtndsome  Englishman.  [Fr.  Lc 
Bd  Anijliiis.]  A  name  given  by  the 
Fre.ich  troops  under  Turenne  to  John 
Chuichill  (1G50-1722),  afterward  the 
celebruted  Duke  of  Marlborough,  who 
was  no  /ess  distinguished  for  the  sin- 
gular graces  of  his  person,  than  for 
his  brilliant  courage  nnd  his  consum- 
mate ability  both  as  a  soldier  and  a 
statesman. 

Handsome  Swordsman.  [Fr.  Le 
Beau  Sahreur.]  A.  title  popularly 
given  to  Joachini  Murat  (1767-1815), 
who  was  highly  distinguished  for 
his  handsome  person,  accomplished 
horsemanship,  and  daring  bravery  as 
a  cavalry  othcer. 

Hanging  Judge.  A  surname  fastened 
upon  the  Earl  of  Norbury  (d.  1831), 
who  was  Chief  Justice  of  the  Com- 
mon Pleas  ni  Ireland,  from  1820  to 
1827.  He  is  said  to  have  been  in  the 
habit  of  jesting  with  criminals,  on 
whom  he  Avas  pronouncing  sentence 
of  death. 

Hans  von  Rippach  (hanss  fon  rip'- 
palj,  (i7,  71).  A  fictitious  personage, 
to  ask  for  whom  was  an  old  joke 
among  the  German  students.  Hans 
is  the  German  Jack,  and  lilppach  is 
a  village  near  Leipsic. 

Hansvtrurst  (hanss'voofst,  08).  [Ger., 
Jack  Piulding.J  A  pantomimic  char- 
acter formerly  introduced  into  Ger- 
man comedies,  and  originally  in- 
tended as  a  caricature  of  the  Italian 
Harlef/uin,  but  corres])onding  more 
particularly  with  the  Italian  Macarimi, 


the  French  Jerni  Putngey  the  English 
Jack  Piuldluij^  and  tlie  Dutch  PicktU 
heriiuf/t,  —  all  favorite  characters 
with  the  lower  cla.sses  of  the  popula- 
tion, and  called  alter  favorite  national 
dishes.  llauswurst  was  noted  for 
his  clumsiness,  his  gormandizing  ap- 
petite, and  his  Falstallian  dimenMons. 
He  was  driven  trom  the  GeriUcin 
stage  by  Gottsched,  about  the  middle 
of  the  eighteenth  century. 

Happy  Valley.  In  Johnson's  "  Ras- 
selas,"  a  delightful  valley,  situated 
in  Abyssinia. 

To  his  recollection,  this  retired  spot  was 
imi)aralk'lo(l  in  beauty  by  the  richest  scene* 
he  luul  visited  in  his  wanderings.  Even  the 
//(//;/;//  I'aUcji  ot  Rassclas  would  have  Bunk 
into  uothinj;  upon  the  comparison. 

Sir  W.Scott. 

Hard'cas-tle,  Mr.  (hard'kas-sl).  A 
character  in  Goldsmith's  comedy  of 
'' 8he  Stoops  to  Concjuer;"  repre- 
sented as  prosy  and  hospitable. 

Har'le-quin  (har-'le-kin  or  har'le- 
kwin).  [Fr.  Ilarltquin,  Arlequin,  Sp. 
Arlequln,  It.  Arlecchino ;  probably 
from  Old  Fr.  hieilekin,  hellequin^ 
goblin,  elf.  Low  Lat  harleq^amts,  hel- 
lequiniis,  from  D.  and  Old  Ger.  helle, 
hell.  —  Mahn.']  1.  The  name  of  a 
well-known  character  in  the  popular 
extemporized  Italian  comedy,  in 
which  he  originally  figured  as  a 
servant  of  Pantaleone,  the  comic 
representative  of  Venetian  foibles, 
and  as  the  lover  of  Columbina,  or 
the  A r/echinetta.  He  appeared  before 
the  public  Avith  a  shaven  head,  a 
masked  face,  unshod  feet,  and  a  coat 
of  many  colors.  He  also  carried  a 
light  sword  of  lath,  and  his  hat  was 
in  a  deplorable  condition.  He  was 
noted  for  his  agility,  and  for  being  a 
great  gourmand,  though  his  gluttony 
had  no  effect  upon  the  size  of  his 
person.  In  this  character  were  sat- 
irized the  roguery  and  drollery  of 
the  Bergamasks,  who  were  proverbial 
for  their  intriguing  knavery'.  Har- 
lequin is  accordingly  represented  as 
a  simple,  ignorant  person,  who  tries 
very  hard  to  be  Avitty,  even  at  the 
expense  of  being  malicious.  He  is  a 
parasite,  cowardly,  yet  faithful  and 
active,  but  easily  induced,  by  fear 


0Q~  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying   Explanation^ 


HAR 


165 


HAR 


w  interest,  to  commit  all  sorts  of 
tricks  and  knaveries,  i^'roni  tlie  Ital- 
ian staj^e  lie  \\a«  transferred  to  that 
of  otlier  countries.  In  England,  he 
was  lirst  introduct-d  on  the  ^ta^e  l)y 
Rich,  in  the  eighteenth  century.  The 
harlequin,  in  its  original  conception, 
has  almost  ceased  to  possess  a  legit- 
imate existence  in  comedy,  being 
confined,  at  the  present  day,  to  the 
sphere  of  Christmas  pantonnmes  and 
puppet-shows,  and  to  the  improvised 
plays  of  the  Italians. 

is.  A  punnmg  nickname  conferred 
upon  Robert  JIarUij(Hjiil-l'i-2i),  Karl 
01  Oxford  and  Mortimer,  an  English 
statesman  of  the  time  of  (.^ueen  Anne, 
noted  for  his  restless,  intriguing  dis- 
position. 

Har'ley.  "  The  Man  of  Feeling,"  in 
Mackenzie's  novel  of  that  name. 
He  is  remarkable  for  his  hne  sensi- 
bility and  benevolence,  and  his  bash- 
fulness  resulting  from  excessive  deli- 
cacy.    See  Ma>i  of  EEKLi>iG. 

4^  "  The  principal  object  of  Macken- 
zie, in  all  his  novels,  has  been  to  reach 
and  sustain  a  tone  of  moral  pathos,  by 
representintr  the  effect  of  incidents,  wheth- 
er important  or  trifiin<;.  upon  the  human 
mind,  and  especially  those  which  were  not 
only  just,  honorable,  and  intelligent,  but 
po  framed  as  to  be  responsive  to  those 
finer  feelings  to  which  ordinary  hearts 
are  callous  This  is  the  direct  and  pro- 
fesseii  object  of  Mackenzie's  tirst  work, 
which  is  in  fact  no  narrative,  but  a  series 
of  successive  incidents,  each  I'eudered 
interesting  by  the  mode  in  which  they 
operate  on  the  feelings  of  Ilarlev." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Harlot,  The  Infamous  Northern. 
See  Northern  Harlot,  The  In- 
famous. 

Har'l^we,  Clarissa.  The  heroine 
of  Richardson's  novel  entitled  "The 
History  of  Clarissa  Harlowe;"  a 
young  lady,  who,  to  avoid  a  mat- 
rimonial union  to  Avhich  her  heart 
cannot  consent,  and  to  which  she  is 
urged  by  her  parents,  casts  herself 
on  the  protection  of  a  lover,  who 
scandalously  abuses  the  confidence 
she  reposes  in  him,  and  finally  suc- 
ceeds in  gratifying  his  passion, 
though  he  fails  in  insnaring  her 
virtue.    She  rejects  the  reparation  of 


marriage,  which  is  at  length  ten- 
dered, and  retires  to  a  solitary  abode, 
where  she  expires,  overwhelmed  with 
grief  and  shame. 

iJi^-  "  It  was  reserved  to  Richardson  to 
.show  there  is  a  chastity  of  the  soul, 
which  can  beam  out  spotless  and  unsul- 
lied even  after  that  of  the  person  has 
been  violated ;  and  the  dignity  of  Cla- 
rissa, under  her  disgrace  and  her  misfor- 
tunes, reminds  us  of  the  sa}  ing  of  the 
ancient  poet,  thiit  n  good  man,  struggling 
with  the  tide  of  adversity ,  and  surmount- 
ing it,  was  a  sight  upon  which  the  immor- 
tal gods  might  look  down  with  jileasure." 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Har-mo'ni-a.  [Gr.  'Apfxavia.]  {Gr, 
tj"-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Mars 
and  Venus,  and  the  wife  of  Cadmus. 
She  is  renowned  in  ancient  story  on 
account  of  a  necklace  which  she 
received  from  her  husband  on  her 
wedding-day,  and  which  wrought 
mischief  to  all  who  came  into  pos- 
session of  it. 

Har'61d,  ChUde  (child,  or  child).  The 
hero  of  Lord  Byron's  poem,  "  Childe 
Harold's  Pilgrimage ;  "  represented  as 
a  man  of  gentle  birth,  lol'ty  bearing, 
and  peerless  intellect,  who,  having 
exhausted  all  the  pleasures  of  youth 
and  early  manhood,  and  feeling  the 
fullness  of  satiety,  loathes  his  fellow- 
bacchanals,  and  the  "  laughing  dames 
in  whom  he  did  delight."  To  banish 
his  disgust  and  melancholy,  he  de- 
tennines  to  travel;  but,  though  he 
traverses  some  of  the  fairest  portions 
of  the  earth,  the  feelings  of  bitterness 
and  desolation  still  prey  upon  him, 
without  lor  one  moment  lightening 
the  weight  upon  his  heart,  or  ena- 
bling him  to  lose  his  own  wretched 
identity. 

j8@=  •'  Childe  Harold  may  not  be,  nor 
do  we  believe  he  is.  Lord  Byron's  very 
self;  but  he  is  Lord  Byron's  picture, 
sketched  by  Lord  Byron  himself,  arranged 
in  a  fancy  dress,  and  disguised  perhaps 
by  some  extrinsic  attributes,  but  still 
bearing  a  sufficient  resemblance  to  the 
original  to  warrant  the  conclusion  that 
we  have  drawn."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

The  feelings  arising  from  so  rich  a  land- 
scape as  is  displayed  by  the  valley  of  the 
Rhine,  must  have  been  the  same  in  every 
bosom,  from  tlie  period  when  our  Englishman 
took  his  solitary  journey  through  it,  in  doubt 
and  danger,  till  that  in  which  it  heard  the  iu- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


HAR 


166 


HAV 


dignant  Chihh  Harold  bid  a  proud  farewell  to 
his  uative  c<)uiiti\j ,  in  the  vain  search  of  a 
land  in  which  lus  lieart  might  throb  less 
fiercely.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Harpagon  (aFpa''go"',  62).  The  hero 
ofMulierc's  comedy  of  "L'Avare;" 
represented  as  a  wretched  miser, 
whose  avarice  lias  reached  that  point 
where  it  is  without  pride,  and  whose 
dread  of  losing  his  wealth  has  over- 
powered the  desire  of  being  thought 
to  possess  it. 

Some  [part  of  the  treasure]  went  to  stop  for 
a  time  the  mouths  of  such  claimants,  who, 
beinK  wearv  of  fair  promises,  hud  become  ot 
opinion  with  //ar/ii(;/oii,  that  it  was  m-ces*ary 
to  touch  sometliin^  substantial.    Sir  n  .  Scott. 

HuriKtijun  is  not  more  unlike  to  Jourdain 
.  .  .  than  every  one  of  Miss  Austen's  young 
divines  to  all  his  reverend  brethren. 

Macaidaji. 

Har'pi-er,  or  Har'per.  Some  mys- 
terious personage  referred  to  by  the 
witches,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of 
"  Macbeth,"'  a.  iv.,  sc.  1.  Collier  sug- 
gests that  the  word  may  be  a  cor- 
ruption of  harpy.  The  orthography 
of  the  first  folio,  and  of  the  best 
modern  editions,  is  Harpier. 

Harpies.  [Gr.  'ApTrvtot,  swift  robbers ; 
Lat.  ffarpylce.]  {(Jr.  cf  Rom.  Jfyth.) 
Three  daughters  of  Xeptune  and 
Terra,  considered  as  ministers  of  the 
vengeance  of  the  gods.  They  were 
disgusting  winged  monsters,  of  fierce 
and  loathsome  aspect,  with  the  bodies 
of  vultures,  the  heads  of  maidens, 
hands  armed  with  long  claws,  and 
faces  pale  with  hunger.  They  lived 
in  an  atmosphere  of  filth  and  stench, 
and  polluted  every  thing  they  ap- 
proached. Their  names  are  com- 
monly given  as  Aello,  Celteno,  and 
Ocypete. 

Har-poc'ra-tes.  [Gr.  'XpnoKparnq.] 
( Mi/th. )  The  Greek  name  of  the 
Egyptian  FLtrus,  the  god  of  the  sun 
and  of  silence,  represented  with  his 
finger  on  his  mouth. 

Harris,  Mrs.  An  imaginary  person- 
age to  whom  Mrs.  Gamp  —  a  month- 
ly nurse  who  figures  in  Dickens's 
novel  of  ''Martin  Chuzzlewit "  — 
constantly  refers  as  an  authority  for 
her  own  fabrications  and  fancies. 
See  Gamp,  Mrs.  Sarah. 

&^  "  Mrs.  Harris  wa.s  a  glorious  cre- 
ation, or,  rather,  conception.     Only,  the 


numerous  and  respectable  persons  who 
bea.r  that  name  must  feel  themselves  ag- 
grieved ;  for  tueir  very  existence  i-t  now 
made  a  matter  of  doubt.  By  one  breath 
of  tue  magician,  the  ^olid  tlesii-aud-blooj 
of  all  the  Harrises  has  been  volatilized 
into  a  hypothetical  phantom." 

Fraser's  Mas;. 
Now,  hitherto,  though  the  bandit  was  the 
nominal  hero  of  the  piece;  thou;4h  you  were 
always  hearing  of  him,  —  his  wrongs,  virtues, 
hair- breadth  escapes, —  lie  had  never  been 
seen.  Not  Mrs.  Hams,  in  the  immortal  nar- 
rative, was  more  quoted  and  more  mythical. 
Sir  E.  Bulvscr  Lutton. 

Hatch'way,  Lieutenant  Jack.  The 
name  of  a  retired  naval  olficer,  on 
hall-pay,  in  Smollett's  novel,  "  The 
Adventures  of  Teregrhie  i^ickle." 
He  is  represented  as  living  with 
Commodore  Trunnion  as  a  compan- 
ion. 

He  who  can  read  the  calamities  of  T>"jnnion 
and  I/atc/iicay,  when  run  away  with  ov  their 
mettled  steeds,  .  .  .  without  a  good  "heartjf 
burst  of  honest  laughter,  must  be  well  quali- 
fied to  look  sad  and  gentleman-like  with  Lord 
Chestertield  or  Master  Stephen.   Sir  iV.  Scott. 

Hats  and  Caps.  (Swed.  fflst.)  Pop- 
ular names  given  to  two  political 
factions  by  which  Sweden  was  dis- 
tracted in  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  The  former  party  was  fa- 
vorable to  France,  the  latter  was  in 
the  interest  of  Russia.  They  were 
both  broken  up,  and  their  names 
prohibited,  in  1771,  by  Gustavus  III., 
who  desired  to  exclude  foreign  influ- 
ence. 

«^  "  '  Faction  of  Hats,'  '  Faction  of 
Caps  '  (that  i.<,  H/^-Zii-caps,  as  being  som- 
nolent and  disinclined  to  France  and 
War):  seldom  did  a  once  valiant,  far- 
shining  nation  sink  to  such  depths  I  " 

Carlylf. 

Hat'ter-iick,  Dirk.  A  Dutch  smug- 
gler  captain,  and  a  thorough  and 
desperate  villain,  in  Scott's  novel  of 
"  Guy  Mannering."  His  character 
is  redeemed  trom  utter  sordidness 
and  depravity  only  by  his  one  vir- 
tue of  integrity  to  his  employers. 
"  I  was  always  faithful  to  my  ship- 
owners, always  accounted  for  cargo 
to  the  last  stiver." 

Hav'e-16k  the  Dane.  [Fr.  Haveloh 
le  Bnnois.]  The  hero  of  an  early 
French  romance,  the  original  of  an 
ancient  English  romance  of  the  same 
name,  founded  upon  a  story  of  the 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


HAW 


167 


HEI 


Saxon  era  relating  to  the  town  of 
Grimsby,  in  Lincolnshire. 
Hawk'u-bites.     Tlic  same  as   Tityre 
Tus.  '  See  Titykk  Tus. 

Hawk'eye  State.  The  State  of  loAva; 
—  said  to  be  so  named  alter  an  In- 
dian eliief,  who  was  once  a  terror 
to  voijutjtiu's  to  its  borders. 

Head  of  Africa.  A  name  formerly 
given  to  tlie  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 

H6ad'rigg,  Cud'die  {or  Cuthbert). 
A  plowman  in  Lady  Bellenden's 
service,  in  Scott's  novel  of  "  Old 
Mortality." 

Heart  of  Mid-Lo'thi-S,n.  A  poetical 
and  popular  name  of  the  old  jail  in 
Edinburgh,  the  capital  of  the  county 
of  Mid-Lothian.  It  was  taken  down 
in  1817.  One  of  Scott's  novels  bears 
this  name  as  its  title. 

He'be.  [Gr.  'H^r,.]  {Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Mijtli.)  The  goddess  of  youth,  a 
daughter  of  Jupiter  and  Juno,  and 
the  cujj-bearer  of  the  gods.  She  was 
banished  from  heaven  on  account  of 
an  unlucky  fall. 


Wreathed  smiles, 
Such  as  hang  on  //e/^e's  cheek, 
And  love  to  live  in  dimple  sleek. 


Milton. 


Hec'a-te  {sometimes  Anglicized  hek''- 
at).'  [Gr.  ■E.<aTT7.]  {Gr.  (f  Bom. 
^fyth.)  The  daughter  of  Jupiter  and 
Latona;  a  mysterious  divinity  called 
Luna  in  heaven,  Diana  on  earth,  and 
Hecate.,  or  Proserjyina.,  in  hell.  In 
the  latter  character,  she  is  described 
as  a  powerful  and  cruel  goddess,  of 
hideous  appearance,  having  all  the 
magical  powers  of  the  universe  at 
her  command,  and  sending  upon  the 
earth  all  kinds  of  demons  and  terrible 
phantoms. 

Hec'tor.  [Gr. 'E/crwp.]  {Gr.  <f  Rom. 
Mijfh.)  The  son  of  Priam,  king  of 
Troy,  by  Hecuba,  and  the  bravest 
and  ablest  of  all  the  Trojan  chiefs 
■who  fought  against  the  Greeks.  For 
a  long  time  he  gloriously  defended 
Troy,  but  was  at  last  slain  in  single 
combat  by  Achilles,  who  dragged  his 
body  in  insulting  triumph  three  times 
around  the  tomb  of  Patroclus  and 
the  walls  of  the  beleaguered  city. 
His  exploits  are  sung  by  Homer  in 


the  "  Iliad."  One  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful and  affecting  as  well  as  cele- 
brated episodes  in  tliis  poem  is  that 
in  which  Hector  takes  leave  of  his 
wife  and  child  at  the  Sciean  gate 
before  going  into  battle. 

Hec'tor  de  Ma'rys,  Sir.  A  knight 
of  the  Round  Table,  brother  of  Lan- 
celot du  Lac. 

Hec'tor  of  Germany.  A  title  given 
by  the  old  chroniclers  to  Joachim  II., 
elector  of  Brandenburg  (d.  1571). 

Hec'torg.     See  Tityre  Tus. 

Hec'u-ba.  [Gr.  'EKd^-q.]  { Gr.  ff  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  second  wife  of  Priam, 
king  of  Troy,  and  the  mother  of  Paris 
and  Hector.  After  the  fall  of  Troy, 
she  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Greeks 
as  a  slave,  and,  according  to  one 
account,  threw  herself  in  despair  into 
the  sea. 

Heap,  Uriah.  A  detestable  char- 
acter in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  David 
Copperfield,"  who,  under  the  garb 
of  the  most  abject  humility,  conceals 
a  diabolic  hatred  and  malignity.  "  I 
am  well  aware,"  quoth  he,  "  that  I  am 
the  umblest  person  going,  let  the 
other  be  who  he  may.  My  mother 
is  likewise  a  ven^  umble  person.  We 
live  in  a  numble  abode.  Master  Cop- 
perfield, but  have  much  to  be  thank- 
ful for.  My  father's  former  calling 
was  umble;  he  was  a  sexton." 

Heimdall  (him'dal).  {Scand.  Myth.) 
A  god  who  stands  as  sentinel  at  the 
bridge  of  Bifnist,  to  prevent  the 
giants  from  forcing  their  way  into 
heaven.  It  is  said  of  him,  that  he 
requires  less  sleep  than  a  bird,  that 
he  can  see  to  a  distance  of  one  hun- 
dred leagues,  as  Avell  by  night  as  by 
day,  and  that  he  can  hear  the  grass 
grow  and  also  the  wool  on  sheep's 
backs.  See  Gjallar.  [Written  also 
Hei  md  al.] 

Heir    of  the    Republic.      A  name 

given  to  Napoleon  Bonaparte,  "  the 
plebeian  child  of  the  Revolution," 
who,  in  1799,  by  a  bold  coup  d'etat., 
overthrew  the  Directory,  and  made 
himself  First  Consul  of  France  with 
sovereign  powers ;  and  who,  in  1804, 


and  for  the  Remarlu  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  tee  pp.  xiv-xxziL 


HEL 


1G8 


HEP 


•  a.ssumed  the  title  of  emperor,  and 
destroyed  the  lai^t  vestigeb  ul  democ- 
racy and  Ireedoiii. 

Hei,  ('/•  He'la.  (ScukK  Myth.)  The 
queen  of  the  dead,  daughter  of  the 
evil -hearted  Loki  and  a  giantess 
named  Augurboda.  blie  Mas  (right- 
ful to  beliold,  her  aspect  being  lero- 
cious,  and  the  upper  part  of  her 
body  black  or  livid  troia  congealed 
blood,  iler  abode  (Ilellieiui)  was  a 
vast  castle  in  Nillheim,  in  the  midst 
of  eternal  damp,  snow,  ice.  and  dark- 
ness. Here  she  received  all  who  died 
of  old  age  or  disease.  She  was  an 
hiexorable  divinity,  and  would  re- 
lease no  one  who  had  once  entered 
her  domain. 

I'prose  the  king  of  men  with  speed, 

And  saddled  straight  his  cnul-bUick  steed; 

Down  the  yawnii^g  steep  lie  rode, 

That  leads" to  IIfhi\i  diear  abode. 

Till  full  before  his  fearless  eyes. 

The  portals  nine  of  liell  arise.  Gray. 

Pelen.  [Gr.  'EAeVr;,  Lat.  Htlena  ] 
( (ir.  cf  Horn.  }fyth.)  A  daughter  of 
Jupiter  and  Leda,  and  the  wife  of 
lyienelaus,  king  of  Sparta.  She  was 
the  most  beautit'ul  Avoman  of  her  age. 
In  the  absence  of  her  husband,  Paris, 
son  of  King  Priam,  carried  her  otf  to 
Troy.  Avhich  was  the  cause  of  the  ten 
years'  Avar  against  that  city,  and  of 
its  final  destruction. 

Helen,  Burd.     See  Burd  Helen. 

HePe-na.    1.    See  Helen. 

2.  A  lady  in  Shakes])eare's  ''  Mid- 
summer-Niglifs  Dream,"  in  love 
Avith  Demetrius. 

3.  The  heroine  of  Shakespeare's 
"All  's  Well  that  Ends  Well,"  dis- 
tinguished for  her  romantic  passion 
for  Bertram,  and  her  patient  endur- 
ance of  the  most  adverse  fortune. 

4S^  "  There  was  never,  perhaps,  a  more 
beautiful  picture  of  a  woman's  love, 
cherisheil  in  secret;  not  .«elf-consuming 
in  silent  languishment ;  not  pining  iu 
thought :  not  p;u-;sive  and  '  desponding 
over  its  idol  :  '  but  patient  and  hopeful ; 
strong  in  its  own  intensity,  and  sustained 
by  its  ownfond  fiitb.  .  .  .  The  situation 
of  Helena  is  the  moi^t  painful  and  de- 
grading in  whirh  a  woman  can  he  placed. 
She  is  poor  iiiid  lowly  ;  she  loves  a  man 
[Bertram  ]  who  is  far  her  superior  in  ratik, 
who  repavs  her  love  with  indifference, 
and  rejects   her  hand  with   scorn.     She 


marries  hitn  against  his  will  ;  he  leaypg 
her,  with  contumely ,  on  the  day  of  their 
marriage,  and  makes  his  return  to  hei 
arms  depend  ou  conditions  ajijiarently 
impossible.  All  the  cireunistaines  and 
details  with  which  Helena  i>  surrounded 
are  shocking  to  our  kelings.  and  wound- 
ing to  our  delicacy  ;  and  _\  et  the  beauty 
of  the  character  is  made  to  triumph  over 
all-''  Mrs.  Jatt.fson. 

HePe-na,  The  Patient.  A  character 
in  an  old  popular  tale,  reproduced  in 
Germany  by  Tieck. 

HePe-nus.  [Gr.  "EAei/o?.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rum.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Priam  and 
Hecuba,  and  a  celebrated  sooth^aver. 

He-li'a-des.  [Gr.  'HAidSt?.]  (Cr.  <^ 
Rom.  Myth. )  Daughters  of  Helios  or 
Sol  (the  sun),  changed  into  poplars 
on  account  of  their  grief  at  the  dt  ath 
of  their  brother  Phaethon.  Theit 
names  Avere  Lampcthusa,  Lampetia, 
and  Pluethu.sa, 

Hei'i-c6n.  [Gr.  'EAiKoii'.]  A  moun- 
tain of  Btt'olia,  in  Greece,  sacred  to 
Apollo  and  the  Muses. 

From  J/elicoii's  liannonions  springs 
A  thousand  rill.s  their  mazy  prigitss  take. 

Gray. 

Heli-OS.  [Gr.  *HAiocr.]  {Or.  Mylh.] 
The  sun-god;  identiliedin  later  times 
Avith  Apollo  or  Plutbus.  He  corre- 
sponds to  the  Ponian  iSd. 

Heiae.  [Gr.  'eaatj.]  (6'?-.  c^-  Rni. 
Mytli.)  A  daughter  of  Athan.as  ai  d 
Nephele.  With  her  brother  1  hrixus, 
shelled,  on  a  golden  fleeced  iam,lr<  m 
her  step-mother  Ino  to  (alibas,  but 
fell  into  the  strait  called  alter  her  the 
Hellespont. 

Hel-ve'ti-5  (2-3).  The  Latin  name  of 
SAvitzerland ;  sometimes  used  in  mod- 
ern poetry. 

Pee  from  the  nshes  of  Belrefio's  pile 
The  whitened  skull  of  old  Servctus  smile! 

Jiolmes. 

Henriette  (Fr.  pron.  on're-et',  62). 
A  daughter  of  Chrvsale  in  Moliere's 
comedy,  ''  Pes  Femmes  Savantes." 
Her  name  has  beccmie  ])rovtrbial  in 
the  French  language  as  a  type  of  a 
perfect  Avoman. 

He-ph8Bs'tus.  [Gr.'Hf^aicrTo?.]  {^fyth.) 
The  Greek  name  ot  the  god  called 
Vulcan  by  the  Komans.  See  Vul- 
can. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying   Explanation* 


HER 


169 


HER 


H&'rft  (9).  [Gr.  'iipa,  'iipr,.]  {^^l|th.) 
Tlie  (Jivek  iiaiiiu  of  the  wile  ot' Jupi- 
ter, called  Juno  by  the  Uoiuaus.    !See 

J  UNO. 

H6r'a-clei'd.89.  [Gr. 'HpaxAeZSat.]  (Gr. 
i.f  liiiia.  Mijth).  The  (leseendauta  of 
Hercules.     See  Hisucules. 

Heracles.    See  EIekcules. 

Her'cu-les.  [Gr.  'HpaKA^)?.]  {Gr.  if 
Ri>in.  Mjjth.)  A  son  of  Jupiter  azid 
Alcmena,  the  most  famous  hero  of 
fabulous  history,  remarkal)le  for  his 
great  stren^^th,  and  for  his  many 
wonderful  achievements,  particularly 
his  performance  of  twelve  labors  im- 
posed upon  him  by  his  kinsman 
Eurystheus.  These  were,  1.  To 
destroy  a  lion  which  haunted  the 
mountain  valley  of  Nemea.  2.  To  kill 
a  formidable  hydra  which  infested  the 
forest  and  marsh  of  Lerna.  (See 
Hydra.)  3.  To  capture  a  swift  stag, 
with  golden  antlers  and  brazen  feet, 
which  belonged  to  Diana.  4.  To 
take  alive  a  wild  boar  which  ravaged 
the  neighborhood  of  Erymanthus. 
5.  To  cleanse  the  Augean  stables. 
(See  AiTGEAs.)  6.  To  slay  certain 
frightful  carnivorous  birds  that  deso- 
lated the  country  near  Lake  Stym- 
phalis,  in  Arcadia.  7.  To  bring  alive 
to  Eurystheus  a  remarkable  mad  bull 
belonging  to  Minos,  king  of  Crete.  8. 
To  obtain  the  mares  of  Diomedes,  king 
of  the  Bistones  in  Thrace,  which  fed 
on  human  flesh.  9.  To  procure  the 
girdle  of  Hippolyta,  queen  of  the 
Amazons.  10.  To  kill  the  monster 
Geryon,  and  bring  his  herd-^  to  Ar- 
gos.  (See  Gekyon. )  11.  To  obtain 
certain  golden  apples  which  were 
concealed  in  the  gardens  of  the  Hes- 
perides.  (See  Hespeuides)  12. 
To  bring  from  the  infernal  regions 
the  three-headed  dog  Cerberus.  (See 
Cerberus.)  To  these  "  twelve 
labors"  must  be  added  many  other 
exploits,  such  as  his  strangling  two 
serpents  sent  by  Juno  to  destroy  him 
while  yet  an  infant;  his  battles  with 
the  Centaurs  and  with  the  Giants;  his 
partici))etion  in  the  Argonautic  ex- 
pedition ;  his  liberation  of  Prometheus 
and  Theseus;  and  the  like.  It  is  re- 
ated  by  the  sophist   Prodicus,  that 


Hercules  in  his  youth  met  the  god- 
desses of  Pleasure  and  Virtue  at  the 
cross-ways,  and  that  each  endeavored 
to  persuade  him  to  become  her  vo- 
tary; but  he  rejected  the  charms  of 
i'leasure,  and  chose  Virtue  to  be  the 
constant  companion  of  his  life.  (See 
l)E.rANiRA  and  Hylas.)  [(jailed 
also  Alcldts^  after  his  grandfather  Al- 
civus.J 

Tlicold  world  knew  nothing  of  Conversion; 
instead  of  an  "  Eccc  Homo"  [Hcliold  the  Man! 
See  ./o/iii  xix.  5J,  they  hud  only  some  Clioice 
of  Hercules.  Carlyle. 

Heretics,  Hammer  of.  See  Ham- 
mer OK  Heretics. 

Hermann  (heFman).  The  hero  of 
Goethe's  poem  entitled  "Hermann 
mid  Dorothea." 

>8i^  The  aim  of  the  "  Hermann  and 
Dorothea  "  is  "  in  an  epic  crucible  to  free 
from  its  dross  the  pure  human  existence 
of  a  small  German  town,  and  at  the  same 
time  mirror  in  a  small  glass  the  great 
movements  and  changes  of  the  world's 
stage."  Goethe,  Trans. 

Her'mes.  [Gr. 'Ep/Jifi^.]  {Myth.)  The 
Greek  name  of  Mercury.  See  Mer- 
cury. 

Her'mi-a.  A  lady  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Midsummer- Night's  Dream,"  in 
love  with  Lysander. 

H^r-mi'o-ne.  [Gr.  "Epixiov-q.']  { Gr.  ^ 
Rom.  Myth.)  1.  The  only  daughter 
of  Menelaus  and  Helen,  celebrated 
for  her  beauty.  She  became  the  wife 
of  Pyrrhus  (Neoptolemus),  the  son 
of  Achilles;  but,  having  been  previ- 
ously promised  to  Orestes,  whom  she 
loved,  the  latter  procured  the  assas- 
sination of  Pyrrhus,  and  carried  her 
oft'  and  man-ied  her. 

2.  The  heroine  of  the  first  three 
acts  of  Shakesi^eare's  "  Winter's 
Tale." 

M^  "  She  is  the  wife  of  Leontes,  king 
of  Sicilia,  and,  though  in  the  prime  of 
beauty  and  womanhood,  is  not  repre- 
sented in  the  first  bloom  of  youth.  Her 
husband,  on  slight  grounds,  suspects  her 
of  infidelity  with  his  friend  I'olixenes, 
king  of  Bohemia.  The  suspicion  once 
admitted,  and  working  on  a  jealous,  pas- 
sionate, and  vindictive  mind,  becomes  a 
settled  and  confirmed  opinion.  Ilcrmione 
is  thrown  into  a  dumreon  ;  her  new-born 
infant  is  taken  from  her,  and,  by  the  oi-der 
of  her  husband,   frantic  with  jealousy, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


HER 


170 


HES 


•xpoeed  to  death  on  a  desert  shore ;  she 
is  herself  brought  to  a  public  trial  for 
treason  and  incontinency,  defends  her- 
self nobly,  and  is  pronounced  innocent 
by  the  oracle.  But.  at  tlie  very  moment 
that  she  is  acquitted,  she  learns  the  death 
of  the  prince,  her  son,  who, 

*  Conceivini:  the  dishonor  of  his  mother, 
Had  straight  decUned,  drooped,  took  it  deep- 
ly, 
Fa.«ti'iieil  :ind  fixed  tlie  sliaine  on  't  in  himself, 
Threw  otf  liis  si)irit,  appetite,  and  sleep. 
And  duwunght  lant;uished.' 

She  swoons  away  with  grief,  and  her  sup- 
posed death  concludes  the  third  act.  The 
two  last  acts  are  occupied  witn  tne  adven- 
tures of  her  daughter  Ferditii ;  and  with 
the  restoration  of  I'erditi  to  the  arms  of 
her  mother,  and  the  reconciliation  of  Her- 
mioue  and  Leontes,  the  piece  concludes. 
Such,  in  few  words,  is  the  dramatic  situ- 
ation. The  character  of  Hermione  exhib- 
its what  is  never  found  in  the  other  sex, 
but  rarely  in  our  own, — yet  sometimes, 
—  dignity  \vithout  pride,  love  without 
passion,  and  tenderness  without  weak- 
ness." J\lrs.  Jameson. 

Hermod  (her'mod,  m-  hef'mod). 
{Sc'ind.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Odiu,  and 
the  messenger  of  the  gods. 

He'ro(9).  [Gr.  'Hoci.]  1.  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  beautiful  priestess 
of  Venus  at  Sestos.  in  Thrace,  be- 
loved by  Leander  of  Abvdos,  who 
repeatedly  swam  across  the  Helles- 
pont to  visit  her;  but,  he  being  at 
length  unfortunately  drowned,  ."^he 
threw  herself,  in  despair,  into  the  sea. 
2.  Daughter  of  Leonato,  and  a 
friend  of  Beatrice,  in  Shakespeare's 
"Much  Ado  about  Xothing." 

^S"  ''  The  character  of  Hero  is  well  con- 
trasted with  that  of  Beatrice,  and  their 
mutual  attachment  is  very  beautiful  and 
natural.  When  they  are  botli  on  the 
scene  together,  Hero  has  but  little  to  say 
for  herself:  Beatrice  asserts  the  rule  of  "a 
master-spirit,  eclipses  her  by  her  mental 
superiority,  aba-^hes  her  by  her  raillery, 
dictates  to  her,  answers  for  her.  and 
would  fain  inspire  her  gentle-hearted 
cousin  with  some  of  her  own  assurance. 
.  .  .  But  Shakespeare  knew  well  how  to 
make  one chamcter  subordinate  to  anoth- 
er, without  sacrificing  the  slightest  por- 
tion of  its  effect :  and  Hero,  added  to  her 
grace  and  softness,  and  all  the  interest 
which  attaches  to  her  as  the  sentimental 
heroine  of  the  play,  possesses  an  intel- 
lectual beauty  of  h»r  own.  When  she 
has  Beatrice  at  an  advantaire.  she  repavs 
her,  with  interest,  in  the  severe,  but  most 


animated  and  elegant  picture  she  drawi 
of  her  cousin's  imperious  character  and 
unbridled  levity  of  tongue." 

Mrs.  Jameson. 
H6r'on,  Robert.  A  pseudonym  under 
which  John  Pinkerton  (1^58-1826) 
published  a  work,  entitled  "  Letters 
on  Literature,"  distinguished  for  its 
strange  .system  of  spelling,  as  well  a.s 
for  the  singular  opinions  advanced  in 
it  on  the  value  of  the  Greek  and 
Koman  writers. 

Hero  of  the  Nile.  A  surname  often 
given  to  Horatio  Nelson  (1758-1805), 
the  illustrious  naval  commander  of 
England,  who,  on  the  tirst  of  August, 
17y8,  with  a  greatly  inferior  torce, 
attacked,  and  nearly  destroyed,  a 
French  fleet  under  the  command  of 
Brueys,  in  Aboukir  Bay. 

He-ros'tra-tus.  [Gr.  'UpoaTpa.ro';.'] 
An  Kphesian,  who,  to  acquire  im- 
perishable fame,  set  lire  to  the  mag- 
nilicent  temple  of  Diana,  at  Ephesus, 
B.  c.  356.  He  was  tortured  to  death 
for  the  deed,  and  a  decree  was  passed 
that  no  one  .should  mention  his  name 
under  pain  of  capital  punishment; 
but  the  effect  produced  was  exactly 
the  opposite  of  that  which  was  intend- 
ed.    [Called  also  Eratogtnitus.] 

Her'tha.  {Teutonic  Myth.)  A  per- 
sonification of  the  earth.  Hertha  was 
worshiped  by  the  ancient  Germans 
and  the  Anglo-Saxons,  as  well  as  by 
the  Norsemen.  The  name  is  some- 
times used  as  a  synonym  of  Friyga. 
See  Fkigga. 

Her  Trippa  (ef  trep'pa')-  The  name 
of  one  of  the  characters  in  liabelais' 
"  Pantagruel  " 

i^S='  '•  Her  Trippa  is  undoubtedly  Hen- 
ricus  Cornelius  Agrippa  burlesqued.  Hfr 
is  H>'nrirus.,  or  H'rrirus^  or  perh.ips  al- 
ludes to  HTr.  because  he  was  a  German, 
and  As^rippa  is  turned  into  Trippa.  to 
play  upon  the  word  tripe.''  Mntteur. 

He-si'o-ne.  [Gr.  'Ho-tdio/.]  {Gr.  ^ 
E(>7n.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Laom- 
edon,  king  of  Troy,  rescued  from  a 
sea-monster  by  Hercules,  and  given 
in  marriage  to  Telamon,  to  whom 
she  bore  Teucer. 

Hes-per'I-des.  [Gr.  'Eo-ireptSe?.]  {Gr. 
if    Rom.    Myth.)       Three     n^nnphs, 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanyins  Explanation!, 


HES 


171 


HIP 


daughters  of  Hespenis,  —  or,  as  some 
say,  of  Erebus  and  Nox,  —  and  guard- 
ians of  the  gulden  apples  which  J  uno, 
on  her  marriage  with  J  upiter,  received 
from  Terra,  and  which  were  kept  in 
a  garden  on  an  island  beyond  Mount 
Athis,  in  Africa.  The  tree  which  bore 
them  was  watched  by  a  huge  dragon. 

Hes'pe-rus.  [Gr.  "Eo-Trepos.]  {Gr.  ^^ 
Rom.  Mytli.)  A  personification  of  the 
evening  star,  worshiped  with  divine 
honors.  According  to  one  form  of 
the  legend,  he  was  the  son  of  Cepha- 
lus  and  Aurora ;  according  to  another 
form,  the  son  of  lapetus  and  Asia. 
Diodorus  calls  him  a  son  of  Atlas, 
and  says  that  he  was  fond  of  astron- 
om}',  and  that  once,  a(ter  having 
ascended  Mount  Atlas  to  observe  the 
stars,  he  disappeared,  and  was  seen 
on  earth  no  more. 

Hes'ti-a.  [Gr.  'EcrTia.]  {Gr.  Myth.) 
The  Greek  name  of  the  goddess 
Avorshiped  by  the  Romans  as  Vtsta. 
See  Vesta. 

Hi'a-w^'tha.  A  mythical  personage 
of  miraculous  birth,  believed  by  the 
North  American  Indians  to  have  been 
sent  among  them  to  clear  their  rivers, 
forests,  and  fishing-grounds,  and  to 
teach  them  the  arts  of  peace.  The 
stor}'  of  Hiawatha  has  been  made  the 
subject  of  a  poem  by  Longfellow. 

Hi-ber'ni-a.  The  Latin  name  of 
Ireland,  often  used  in  modem  poetrj'. 

Hick'a-thrift,  Thomas,  or  Jack. 
The  name  of  a  famous  character  in 
an  old  legendary  tale  of  the  same 
name,  doubtless  a  popular  corrup- 
tion of  an  ancient  Northern  romance. 
He  is  described  as  a  poor  lal)orer 
of  the  time  of  William  the  Con- 
queror, and  the  possessor  of  super- 
human strength,  which  enabled  him 
to  accomplish  achievements  so  Avon- 
derful,and  of  such  public  importance 
and  benefit,  that  he  was  knighted  by 
his  grateful  king,  and  made  governor 
of  Kast  Anglia,  or  Thanet.  See 
"  Qu.  Rev.,"  No.  XLI.  art.  V. 

When  a  man  sits  down  to  write  a  history, 
thongrh  it  be  but  the  history  of  Jack  Hickh- 
Ihrifi  or  Tom  Thumb,  lie  Itnows  no  more 
than  his  heels  what  lets  and  confounded 
hindrances  he  is  to  meet  with  in  his  way. 

Sterne. 


Hieronymo.     See  Jeroijimo. 

High-heels.  A  faction  or  party  in 
Lilliput  opposed  to  I  he  Low-heels. 
'Ihese  parties  were  so  t«alled  from  the 
high  and  low  heels  of  their  shoes,  by 
which  they  respectively  distinguished 
themselves.  The  High-heels,  it  was 
alleged,  were  most  agreeable  to  the 
ancient  constitution  of  the  empire, 
but  the  emperor  made  use  only  of 
Low-heels  in  the  administration  of 
the  government.  Under  these  desig- 
nations. Swift  satirized  the  High- 
church  and  Low-church  parties  of 
his  time,  or  the  Whigs  and  Tories. 
See  Gulliver  and  Lilliput. 

Highland  Mary.  Mary  Campbell, 
Burns's  first  love,  the  subject  of 
some  of  his  most  beautiful  songs, 
and  of  the  elegy,  "  To  Marj'  in 
Heaven." 

Hin'doos.  A  cant  name  given  to  the 
"Know-nothing"  or  Native- Ameri- 
can party  in  the  LTnited  States,  Dan- 
iel I'llnian,  their  candidate  for  the 
Presidency,  having  been  charged 
with  being  a  native  of  Calcutta. 

Hip'po-cre'ne  {the  EmjHsh poets  some- 
iiints  prummnce  it  in  three  syllfiUes, 
hip'po-kreen).  [Gr.  'l7r7To/<:pr)iT).]  A 
fountain  near  Mount  Helicon,  sacred 
to  the  Muses,  and  fabled  to  have  been 
produced  by  a  stroke  of  Pegasus's 
hoof.  Longfellow  has  made  use  of 
this  myth  in  his  "  Pegasus  in  Pound." 
See  Pegasus. 

Oh  for  a  beaker  full  of  the  warm  South, 
P'ull  of  the  true,  the  blushful  Jlippocrene, 
With  beaded  bubbles  winking  at  the  brim  ! 

Keats. 

Hip'pO-da-mi'5.        [Gr.     'InnoSaiJifia.] 

{Gr.  (f-  Horn.  Myth.)  The  real  name 
of  Briseis,  the  beloved  slave  of  Achil- 
les.    See  Briseis. 

Hip-pol'3?--ta.  [Gr.  'iTrTroAvTrj.]  1, 
{Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  que?n  of 
the  Amazons,  and  daughter  of  Mars, 
slain  by  Hercules,  according  to  one 
account,  but,  according  to  another, 
conquered  by  Theseus,  who  married 
her,  and  had  by  her  his  son  Ilippoly- 
tus.     [Written  also  H  i  p  p  o  1  y  t  e.] 

The  worthy  Doctor  .  .  .  magnanimously 
suppressed  his  own  inclination  to  become  tlio 
Theseus  to  this  Hippoh/ta,  in  deference  to  the 


knd  fat  the  Remarks  and  Kules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


HIP 


172 


HOD 


rights  of  hospitality,  which  enjoined  him  to 
forbear  intert'L'reiiue  witli  tlie  pleasurable  pur- 
suits of  his  young  frieud.  iSir  H'.  ^utt. 

2.  Queen  of  tlie  Amazons,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Midsumnier-JSight's 
Dream." 
Hip-pol'^-tUS.  [Gr.  'In-n-oAwTos.]  (  Gr. 
tj-  Rom.  Mijth.)  A  son  of  Tlieseus, 
king  of  Athens,  Ijy  Antiope  or  Hip- 
polyta.  Ills  step-mother,  I'hiedra,  — 
the' second  wife  of  Theseus,  —  fell  in 
love  with  him,  but,  finding  that  her 
passion  was  not  responded  to,  she  ac- 
cused him  to  lier  husband  of  attempts 
upon  her  chastity;  the  Icing  in  his 
rage  cursed  him,  and  prayed  for  his 
destruction,  whereupon  he  was  thrown 
from  his  chariot  and  dragged  to  death 
by  his  horses.  ^Escuhipius,  however, 
restored  him  to  life,  and  Diana  placed 
him,  under  the  nauie  of  Virbius,  and 
under  the  protection  of  the  nymph 
Egeria,  in  the  grove  of  Aricia,  where 
he  afterward  received  divine  honors. 

Hip-pom'e-don.  [Gr.  "ijrn-oae'Saji'.] 
(Gr.  c/  ■Rom.  Miftli.)  One  of  the 
seven  Grecian  chiefs  who  engaged  in 
the  siege  of  Thebes. 

Hip-pom'e-nes.  [Gr.  *i7r7rojoiei'T)5.] 
(Gr.  if  Rom.  Mijtit.)  A  Grecian 
prince  who  conquered  Atalanta  in  a 
race,  and  thus  obtained  lier  as  liis 
wife.     See  Atalanta. 

Even  here,  in  this  resion  of  wonders,  I  find 
That  lislit-footed  Fancy  leaves  Truth  far  be- 
hind; 
Or,  at  least,  like  Hiiipo'n/>n''i!,  turns  her  astray 
By  the  golden  illusions  he  flings  in  her  wiy. 

T.  Jfoore. 

Hip-pot'a-des.  [Gr.  'l7r7roTa5>)?  ]  (  Gr. 
(f  Rom.  Mijih  )  A  name  given  to 
^olus,  as  the  grandson  of  Hippotes. 
See  ^EoLus. 

He  .  .  .  questioned    every    gust    of    rugged 

wings 
That  blows  from  off  each  beaked  promon- 

Xary  \  .  .  . 
And  sage  liippotwJps  their  answer  brings. 
That  nota  blast  was  from  his  dungeon  st-Tved. 

Hi'ren  (9).  [A  corruption  of  Trene.^ 
The  heroine  of  an  ohl  plav  bv  Georfje 
Peele,  entitled  "  The  Turkish  Ma- 
homet, and  Hiren,  the  fair  Greek:  " 
referred  to  by  Pistol,  in  Shakespeare's 
"King  IToiiry  IV.,"  Part  II.,  a.  ii., 
sc.  4.  The  name  is  proverbially 
used  by  the  writers  of  that  day  to 
designate  a  strumpet. 


"  Come,  come,"  exclaiiiied  01dl)uck;  "what 
is  the  lueaiiiug  ut  all  ihiij.''  Iia\e  we  gut 
Hiren  liere .'  We  'II  have  no  swaggering  here, 
young.sters."  dir  H ■  6cott. 

His-pa'ni-S.  The  ancient  Latin  name 
of  Spain ;  sometimes  used  iu  modem 
poetry. 

IIob'bi-did.'an9e.  The  name  of  one 
of  tile  liends  mentioned  by  Shake- 
speare in  "Lear"  (a.  iv.,  sc.  1),  and 
taken  from  Harsnet's  "  Declaraiion 
of  Egregious  i^ipish  Impostures." 
See  r  LiiiiiKUTiGiuuET,  1.  ^Written 
Hopdauce   in  a.  iii.,  sc.  ti.J 

UoJjulutance,  prince  of  dumbness.        Shak. 

Hob'gob^lin.  A  name  formerly  given 
to  the  merr}^  spirit  usually  called 
Puck^  or  Rouin   GuodJ'tUuio. 

^^^  "  Goblin  is  the  i'reuch  gobelin^ 
German  koboLd ;  Hob  is  Rob.,  Robin  ^  Bob ; 
juat  as  Hodge  is  Roger.''''  KeigkUey. 

Those  that  Hobgoblin  call   vou,  and    sweet 

Puck, 
You  do  their  work,  and  they  shall  have  good 

luck.  a/ioJc. 

Hob'i-nol.  A  name  given  by  Spen- 
ser, in  his  "  Shepherds  Calendar," 
to  Gabriel  Harvev  (  L^-45-lG3U),  a  per- 
sonal friend,  a  respectable  p(»et  and 
prose  -  writer,  and  one  of  the  most 
learned  persons  of  his  age.  [Writ- 
ten also  Ho  b  b i n  o  1. J 

Hob'o-mok'ko.  The  name  of  an 
evil  spirit  among  the  North  American 

Indians. 

Hob'son,  Tobias  f-sn).  A  carrier 
who  lived  at  Cambridge  (Eng.)  in 
the  seventeenth  century.  He  kept  a 
.'stable,  and  let  out  horses,  but  oblitred 
each  customer  to  take  the  one  which 
stood  next  to  the  door.  Hence  the 
proverbial  expression,  "  Hobson's 
choice,"  used  to  denote  a  choice 
without  an  alternative. 

Hocus,  Humphrev.  A  nickname 
used  to  designate  the  Duke  of  Marl- 
borough, in  Arbuthnot's  "  Historv  of 
.John  Bull." 

Hodeken  (hJ'.'da-ken,  46).  [Ger.,  lit- 
tle hat.]  A  famous  German  kobold, 
or  domestic  fairy  servant :  —  «o  railed 
because  be  always  wore  a  little  felt 
hat  pulled  down  over  his  face. 

Hodge.  The  goodman  of  Gammer 
Gurton,  in  the  old  play  of  "  Gammer 


OS"  For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^. 


HOD 


173 


HOL 


Gurton's  Needle."  See  Gurton, 
Gammek. 

Hoaur  (,iK)M(K)r,  46).  {IScnnd.  Myth.) 
A.  blind  god  who  destroyed  his  broth- 
er Ijaldur,  at  the  iusliguuoii  of  l.oki, 
without  nieaiiiiig  to  do  so.  lie  is  tlie 
type  ol  luglit  and  darkness,  as  Ual- 
dur  is  of  ligla  and  day.  L^^^'^'^'^^^i 
also  H  o  d,  il  o  d  e  r.J 

Hol'o-ter'nes.     1.  See  Judith. 

2.  IVy.  {Tluib(ii)  lloliiJcrut.\  The 
name  of  a  pedant  living  in  Paris, 
under  whose  care  Gargantua,  in 
Kabelais'  romance  of  this  name,  is 
placed  tor  instruction. 

3.  [An  imperfect  anagram  of  Jo/t. 
nts  Floreu,  or  Johannes  i'lorio.]  A 
pedantic  schoolmaster,  in  Siiake- 
speare's  "Love's  Labor's  L,ost,"  tan- 
tastically  vain  of  his  empty  knowl- 
eage.    bee  Euriiuiis. 

ij^  '•  Umler  the  name  of  Holofernes, 
Shakespeare  ridicules  Jolm  Florio  (d. 
1625),  tlie  philologist  and  lexicographer, 
called  by  liiiuselt  "  The  Resolute.'  .  .  . 
The  character  of  Holofernes,  however, 
while  it  caricatures  tUe  peculiar  tolly  jind 
ostentation  of  Klorio,  holds  up  to  ridicule, 
at  the  same  time,  the  general  pedantry 
and  literary  affectations  of  the  age  ;  and 
amongst  these,  very  particularly,  the  ab- 
surd innovatious  "vhich  Lyly  had  intro 
duced.  D/uLe. 

THoly  AUiance.  [Fr.  La  Smvfp  AIU- 
aiH'i'.'\  {Hht.)  A  league  of  the  sov- 
ereigns of  Europe,  proposed  by  the 
Emperor  Alexander  of  Russia,  Sept. 
26,  1815,  after  the  defeat  of  Napoleon 
at  Waterloo,  and  founded  upon  the 
idea  tliat  religion  should  be  made  the 
basis  of  international  politics.  The 
act  establishing  this  alliance  Avas 
signed  by  Alexander,  Francis  of 
Austria,  and  Frederick  William  of 
Prussia,  and  consisted  of  a  declara- 
tion that  tiie  principles  of  Christian- 
ity should  be  the  basis  of  internal 
administration  and  of  public  policy. 
Principles  so  indefinite  Ifd  in  time  to 
violations  of  justice,  and  the  league 
soon  became  a  conspiracy  of  the  gov- 
ernments against  the  peoples.  The 
kings  of  England  and  France  acced- 
ed to  the  alliance,  aiid.  in  1818.  a 
congress  was  held  at  Aix-la-Chapclle, 
in  which  a  Declaration  of  the  five 
monarchs    was   issued,    stating  that 


the  object  of  the  alliance  was  peace 
and  kyitliiidtv  sUibiUtj.  England 
and  brance  afterward  withdrew  iroiu 
this  union,  as  its  views  became  more 
pronounced,  and  1' ranee  at  the  pres- 
ent time  occupies  a  position  hostila  to 
it.  A  special  article  of  the  treaty  of 
alliance  exchuled  tor  ever  the  mem- 
bers of  tile  Lonaparte  tamily  from 
any  European  throne ! 

Holy  Bottle,  Oracle  of  the.  An 
imaginary  oracle  in  search  of  which 
Pantagruel,  in  Kabelais'  romance  of 
this  name,  visits  various  islands,  ac- 
companied by  his  trieiid  Paiiurge. 
See  Pa^ukge. 

jjdj^  The  last  place  at  which  they  arrive 
is  Lantern-land  (see  1sl.\nb  of  Lanterns), 
where  the  oracular  bottle  is  kept  iu  an 
alabaster  fount  ni  a  magnificent  ten''-'" 
Being  conducted  hither,  the  attends  «> 
priestess  throws  something  into  the  fount, 
on  which  the  water  begins  to  bubble,  and 
the  word  I'rinc  .'  (Drink)  is  heard  to  pro- 
ceed from  the  bottle,  wiiich  tbe  priestess 
declares  to  be  th«  most  auspicious  re- 
spouse  pronounced  while  she  has  offi- 
ciated in  the  temple.  They  accordingly 
all  partake  of  Falernian  wine  ;  and  with 
their  ravings  and  jirophesyings  under  the 
inspiration  of  Bacchanalian  enthusiasm 
the  romance  ends. 

They  were  left  in  nil  the  distresses  of  desire 
unsatisfied, — saw  thcii-  doctors,  the  Parch- 
mentarians,  the  Bmssarians,  the  Tiirpenta- 
rians,  on  one  sirie,  the  Popish  doctors  on  the 
other,  like  Pnntagriicl  and  his  companions  in 
quest  of  the  Oracle  of  the  Dottle ,  all  embarked 
out  of  sight.  SteriK. 

Holy  City.  A  designation  bestowed 
by  various  nations  upon  the  city 
which  is  regarded  as  the  center  of 
their  religious  worship  and  traditions. 
By  the  Jews  and  r'hristian*,  Jerusa- 
lem is  so  called.  By  the  Mohamme- 
dan nations,  the  name  is  applied  to 
!Mecca  and  ^ledina.  By  the  Hindus, 
Benares  is  rpgarded  as  the  Holy  City. 
By  the  Indian  Mohammedans,  Alla- 
habad is  so  called.  In  the  time  of 
the  Tncas,  the  name  was  given  to 
Cuzco,  where  there  was  a  trreat  tem- 
ple of  the  sun,  to  which  pilgrims  re- 
sorted from  tlie  furthest  borders  of 
the  empire. 

Holy  Graal.     See  St.  Graal. 

Holy  Island,  1.  A  name  formerly 
given  to  Ireland,  on  account  of  its 
innumerable  multitude  of  saints. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


HOL 


174 


HOO 


2.  Guernsey  was  so  called,  in  the 
tenth  century,  on  account  of  its 
many  monks. 

i>.  Kugen  was  so  called  by  the 
Slavonic   \'arini. 

4.  A  synonym  of  Lindisfame,  a 
peninsula  on  the  north-east  cyast  of 
England,  reniarkaljle  as  having  been 
the  seat  of  a  ft)axon  abbey  over 
which  the  famous  St.  (Juthbert  pre- 
sided as  bishop. 

Holy  Land.  1.  A  name  commonly 
applied  to  Palestine ;  —  first  given  to 
it  in  Ztch.  ii.  12. 

2.  A  name  given  to  Elis,  in  an- 
cient Greece. 

Soiy  League.  [Fr.  La  Sainte  Lirjue.'] 
(I/is/.)  1.  A  celebrated  combination 
against  the  republic  of  Venice,  formed 
in  1508  by  Pope  Julius  11. ,  —  whence 
the  epithet  of  "  Holy,"  —  and  in- 
cluding the  emperor  of  Germany 
(Maximilian),  the  king  of  France 
(Louis  XII.),  the  king  of  Spain  (Fer- 
dinand III),  and  various  Italian 
princes.  By  this  league,  Venice  was 
ibrced  to  code  to  Spain  her  posses- 
sions in  the  kingdom  of  >vaples. 

2.  A  treaty  concluded,  in  153:3,  be- 
tween Pope  (iement  VII.,  the  Ve- 
netians, the  Duke  of  IMilan  (Fran- 
cesco Maria  Sforza),  and  Francis  I. 
of  France,  to  compel  the  Emperor 
Charles  V.  to  release  the  French 
king's  sons  on  the  payment  of  a  rea- 
sonable ransom,  and  to  re-establish 
Sforza  in  the  possession  of  Milan. 
It  was  so  called  because  the  Pope 
was  at  the  head  of  it. 

3.  A  politico-religious  association 
formed  by  the  Koman  Catholic  party 
in  France,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  III., 
the  object  of  which  was  to  overthrow 
the  Protestants,  prevent  the  accession 
of  Henry  IV.,  and  place  the  Duke  of 
Guise  on  the  throne.  [Called  also 
TIte  League,  by  M'ay  of  eminence.] 

Holy  Maid  of  Kent.  Elizabeth  Bar- 
ton, a  woman  once  popularlv  believed 
to  possess  miraculous  endowments, 
and  to  be  an  instrument  of  divine 
revelation.  She  was  beheaded  at  Ty- 
burn, on  the  21st  of  April,  1534,  for 
high  treason  in  having  predicted  that 
direful   calamities   would   befall    the 


English  nation,  and  that  Henrj'TITL 
would  die  a  >pfedy  and  violent  death 
if  he  should  divorce  C^ueen  Catharine 
and  marry  Anne  Boleyn.  Her  im- 
posture was  lor  a  time  so  successful 
that  even  Sir  Thomas  More  was  dis- 
posed to  be  a  believer. 

Honeycomb,  Will.  One  of  the 
members  of  the  imaginar}-  club  by 
whom  the  "  Spectator  "  was  profess- 
edly edited.  He  is  distinguished  for 
his  graceful  affectation,  courtly  pre- 
tension, and  knowledge  of  the  gay 
world. 

Honeyed  Teacher.  An  appellation 
bestowed  upon  St.  Bernard  (1091- 
1153),  one  of  the  most  eloquent  and 
distinguished  ecclesiastics  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages.     See  Mellifluous  Doc- 

Tt)K. 

Hon'ey-mSin,  Charles.  A  free-and- 
easy  clergyman  in  Thackeray's  novel 
of  "  The  Aewcomes." 

In  the  I/onri/mnn  of  the  parish,  even  where 
tliat  persdii  is  of  ordinary  qualifications,  a 
more  funiiliur  tone  both  of  speech  and  writing 
is  tolerated.  Ptroj  Fitzgerald. 

Hon'ey-wdbd.  A  character  in  Gold- 
smith's comedy  of  "  The  Good-na- 
tured Man;"  distingiushed  for  his 
exaggerated  generosity  and  self-ab- 
negation. 

Honor,  Mrs.  The  w^aiting-maid  of 
Sophia  AVestern,  in  Fielding's  novel, 
"  The  History'  of  a  Foundling." 

Stop,  stop;  fold  lip  the  bedclothes  again,  if 
you  please.  I'pon  my  word,  this  i.s  worse 
than  Sophy  M'estem  and  Mrs.  Honor  about 
Tom  Jones's  broken  arm.        Prof.  J.  Wihon. 

Hood,  Robin.     See  Robin  Hood. 

Hdbk'er,  The  Judicious.  Richard 
Hooker,  an  eminent  English  divine 
(1553-lGOO),  to  whom  the  surname 
of"  The  Judicious  "  has  been  given  on 
account  of  his  wi.'-dom  and  judgment. 
Of  his  "  Ecclesiastical  Polity  "  Pope 
Clement  VIII.  said,  "  There  are  in  it 
such  seeds  of  eternity  as  will  con- 
tinue till  the  last  fire  shall  devour  all 
learning.'' 

Hookey  "Walker.  The  popidar  name 
of  an  out -door  clerk  at  Longman, 
Clementi,  &  Co.'s,  in  Cheapside,  Lon- 
don, where  a  great  number  of  per- 
sons were  employed.  His  real  nam" 
was   John    Walker,   and   the  epithet 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationt, 


IIOO 


175 


HOR 


"HnoJcey'''  was  given  him  on  account 
of  his  hooked  or  croolced  nose.  He 
occupied  tlie  i)Ost  of  a  spy  upon  the 
other  worlvmen,  whose  uiisdeniean- 
ors  Avere  numerous.  Of  course  it 
^vas  for  their  interest  to  tlirow  dis- 
credit upon  all  Jack's  reports  to  tiic 
head  of  the  lirm;  and  numbers  could 
attest  that  those  reports  were  fabri- 
cations, liowever  true.  Jack,  some- 
how or  other,  was  constantly  outvot- 
ed, his  evidence  superseded,  and  of 
course  disbelieved;  and  thus  his  oc- 
cupation ceased,  but  not  the  fame  of 
^'■IluoJcey  Walhr,"'  who  often  forms 
a  subject  of  allusion  when  the  tes- 
timony of  a  person  of  tried  and  well- 
known  veracity  is  impeached.  The 
name  is  also  often  used  as  an  ejacu- 
lation, to  express  incredulity. 

jg^g"  According  to  the  London  "  Satur- 
day ileview,"'  the  expression  is  derived 
from  an  aquiline  -  nosed  Jew,  named 
Walker,  an  out-door  astronomical  lect- 
urer of  some  local  notoriety  in  his  day. 
Another  aut'.iority  refers  it  to  "a  magis- 
trate of  dreaded  acuteness  and  incredu- 
lity," whose  hooked  nose  gave  the  title  of 
"beak"  to  all  judges,  constables,  and  po- 
licemen. 

Hoosier  State  (hob'zhur).  The  State 
of  Indiana,  the  inhabitants  of  which 
are  otten  called  floositrs.  This  word 
is  said  to  be  a  corruption  of  husher, 
formerly  a  common  term  for  a  bully, 
throughout  the  West. 

Hopeful.  A  pilgrim  in  Bunyan's 
"  Pilgrim's  Progress,"  who,  after  the 
death  of  Faithful,  accompanies  Chris- 
tian to  the  end  of  his  journey. 

Hop-o'-my-Thumb.  A  character  in 
the  tales  of  the  nursery,  often  con- 
founded Avith  Tom  Thumb.  See 
Thumb,  Tom. 

Ho'rae  (9).  [Gr.^npai.]  {Gr.  if  Rom. 
Jli/th.)  The  Hours,  daughters  of 
Jupiter  and  Themis,  goddesses  that 
presided  over  the  changes  of  the 
seasons  and  the  Avorks  of  man,  and 
kept  Avatch  at  the  gates  of  heaven ; 
represented  in  art  as  blooming  maid- 
ens carr}'ing  floAvers,  fruits,  &c. 
Their  names  are  usually  giA^en  as 
Eunomia,  Dice,  and  Irene. 

L,o!  where  the  rosy-bosomed  Hours, 

Fair  Venus'  train,  appear.  Gray. 


Ho-ra'ti-1  (-shi-i).     See  CuRiAxn. 

Ho-ra'ti-o  (ho-ru'shi-o).  A  triend  to 
Hamlet,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of 
tliis  name. 

H6r'i-c6n.  A  fanciful  name  sometimes 
given  to  Lake  (jeorge,  and  c(uunu)nly 
supposed  to  be  the  original  Indian 
name,  but  really  an  inventum  of  the 
American  novelist,  James  leuimore 
Cooper.  Tlie  ancient  Iroquois  name 
of  this  lake  Avas  Aruluddi-ucic,  which 
is  ^aid  to  mean,  "  there  the  lake  shuts 
itself."  The  French  missionary,  Fa- 
ther Jogues,  called  it  Saint  Sacre- 
ment,  because  he  discovered  it  on  the 
eve  of  that  festiA' al. 

Horn,  King.     See  King  Horn. 

Hor'ner,  Jack.  The  name  of  a  cele- 
brated personage  in  the  literature  of 
the  nursery.  The  full  history  of  his 
"  Avitty  tricks  and  pleasant  pranks" 
is  giA'en  in  HalliAvell's  "Niu-sery 
Rhymes  of  England." 

iKg=  According  to  a  ^v^ite^  in  "  Notes 
and  Queries  "  (xvi.  156).  "  There  is  a  tra- 
dition in  Somersetshire  that  the  Abbot 
of  Glastonbury,  hearing  that  Henry  VIII. 
had  spoken  with  indignation  of  his  build- 
ing such  a  kitchen  as  the  king  could  not 
burn  down, — it  being  domed  over  with 
stone, — sent  up  his  steward.  Jack  Hor- 
ner, to  present  the  king  with  an  accept- 
able dish  ;  namely,  a  dish,  which,  when 
the  crust  was  lifted  up,  was  found  to  con- 
tain deeds  transferring  twelve  manors  to 
his  sovereign  ;  and  that,  as  Jack  Horner 
traveled  up  to  town  in  the  Abbot's  wagon, 
he  lifted  up  the  crust,  and  stole  out  the 
gift  of  the  manor  of  Wells,  still  possessed 
by  his  descendants,  and,  when  he  re- 
turned, told  the  Abbot  that  the  king  had 
given  it  to  him,  but  was  found,  or  sus- 
pected, to  have  imposed  upon  his  patron. 
Hence  the  satire  vested  under  the  nursery 
lines,  — 

'  Little  Jdck  Homer 
Sat  in  a  corner  [namely,  that  of  the  wagon]. 
Eying  his  Christmas  pie; 
He  put  in  liis  thumb, 
And  pulled  out  a  plum   [the  deed  of  the 

mnnor  of  AA'ells], 
And  said,  "  AA'hat  a  brave  boy  am  I!'"" 

Another  correspondent  of  the  same  work 
(xvii.  83)  gives  a  different  version  of  this 
story.  ••  When  the  monasteries  and  their 
property  were  seized,  orders  were  given 
that  the  title-deeds  of  the  abbey  estates 
at  Mells  [Wells?],  which  Avere  very  exten- 
sive and  valuable,  and  partly  consisted 
of  a  sumptuous  grange  built  by  Abbot 
John  Sellwood,  should  be  given  up  to  the 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xir-xxxii. 


HOR 


176 


HOU 


commissioners.  After  some  delay,  it  was 
dett'iiiiiiicd  by  the  Abbot  ot  (jlastonbury 
to  jiive  tiieiii  up  :  ;iiul,  for  want  of  :i  safe 
mode  of  conveyinj^  tliem.  it  was  decided 
that  the  most  likely  to  avoid  tlieir  beiii}? 
seized  by  any  but  tliose  for  wlioui  tiiey 
were  intended,  w;is  to  send  them  in  a 
pasty,  wliieh  should  be  forwarded  as  a 
present  to  one  of  the  commissioners  in 
London.  The  safest  messenger,  and  least 
likei.v  to  excite  suspicion,  was  considered 
to  be  a  lad  named  Jack  Horner,  who  was 
a  son  of  poor  parents  living  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  the  grange.  The  lad  set  out 
on  his  journey  on  foot,  laden  with  the 
pasty.  It  was  a  weary  road,  and  England 
not  being  so  thickly  inhabited  as  now.  he 
sat  down  to  rest  in  as  snug  a  corner  as  he 
could  find  by  the  way-side.  Hunger,  too, 
overcame  him,  and  he  was  at  a  loss  what  to 
do,  wlien  he  bethouglit  himself  that  there 
would  be  no  h;irm  in  ta.sting  ever  so  little 
of  the  pasty  wliich  lie  was  carrying.  lie 
therefore  inserted  his  thumb  under  the 
crust,  when,  io  1  there  was  nothing  but 
parchments.  Whether  that  allayed  his 
hunger  then  or  not,  I  cannot  say  ;  but, 
although  he  could  not  read  or  under- 
stand these  parchments,  yet  he  thought 
they  might  be  valuable.  He  therefore 
took  one  of  the  parchments  and  pocketed 
it,  and  pui-sued  his  journey  with  the  rest 
of  his  pasty.  Upon  his  delivering  his 
parcel,  it  was  perceived  that  one  of  the 
chief  deeils(  the  deed  of  the  Mells[  Wells?  ] 
Abbey  estates)  was  missing  :  and.  as  it  was 
thought  that  the  Abbot  had  withheld  it, 
an  order  was  stniightway  sent  for  his  ex- 
ecution. But  the  sequel  was,  that,  af- 
ter the  monasteries  were  despoiled,  there 
was  found  in  the  possession  of  the  family 
of  Jack  Horner  a  piece  of  parchment 
which  was.  in  fact,  the  title-deed  of  Mells 
[Wells  '>  ]  Abbey  and  lands  ;  and  that  was 
'  the  plum  ■  whicli  little  Jack  Horner  had 
unwittingly  become  possessed  of.  The 
Abbot  ^\'hiting  was  executed  for  with- 
holding the  deeds.  This  is  the  tale  as 
told  to  me." 

"  No,  I  a'n't,  sir,"  replied  the  fat  bov,  start- 
ing up  from  a  remote  corner,  where,  like  the 
patron  saint  of  fat  boys,  —  the  immortal //or- 
ner,  —  lie  had  been  devouring  a  Christmas  j)ic, 
though  not  with  the  coolness  and  deliberation 
which  characterized  that  young  gentleman's 
procecdhig.  Dickens. 

Horn  Gate.  One  of  "two  gates  of 
sleep "  in  tlie  under-world,  spoken 
of  by  Virgil  in  the  '' ^Eneid,"  Book 
VI.,  one  of  whieli  is  made  of  horn, 
the  other  of  shining  white  ivorv. 
Through  that  of  horn,  true  visions  or 
dreams  are  sent  up  to  men. 

So  too  the  Necklace,  though  we  saw  it  van- 


ish through  the  Horn  Gate  of  Dreams,  and  in 

my  opinion   man  ^hall  never  more  bthold  it, 
yet  its  activity  ccai.et  not,  nor  will.       Carlyle. 

Hornie,  Avdd.     See  Alt^d  Hornie. 

Horse  Latitudes.  A  name  given  by 
seaiiifii  to  a  liank  or  region  of  calms 
in  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  between  the 
parallels  of  30"  and  35"  ^I.  The 
name  is  said  to  be  derived  from  the 
cireiimstaiice  that  vessels  formerly 
bound  from  New  England  to  the 
West  Indies,  with  a  deck -load  of 
horses,  were  often  delayed  in  this 
calm  belt,  and,  for  want  of  water, 
were  obliged  to  throw  the  animals 
overb(jard. 

Hor-ten'si-o.  A  suitor  to  Bianca, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew." 

Ho'rusO).  [Gr. -npo?.]  {Miith.)  The 
Egy{)tian  god  of  the  sun,  correspond- 
ing to  the  Grecian  Apollo.  He  was  a 
son  of  Osiris  and  Isis,  and  along  with 
his  mother  avenged  his  father's  death 
by  vanquishing  Typhon  in  a  great 
battle  (see  Osikis),  and  taking  his 
place  as  king  of  the  gods.  He  is 
often  represented  as  a  child  seated 
on  a  lotus-tlower,  with  his  linger  on 
his  lips,  and  hence  has  been  regard- 
ed as  the  god  of  silence.  His  wor- 
ship extended  to  Greece,  and  even  to 
Rome. 

Hot'spur.  An  appellation  for  a  person 
of  a  warm  or  vehement  disy)osition, 
and  therefore  given  to  the  famous 
Harry  Percy.  The  allusion  is  to  one 
who  '  rides  '  in  hot  haste,  or  spurs 
hotly. 

It  is  probable  that  he  .  .  .  forgot,  amid  the 
liundreds  of  thousands  which  Paris  contains, 
what  small  relation  the  number  of  his  own 
faithful  and  devoted  followers  bore,  not  only 
to  those  who  were  perilously  engaged  in  fac- 
tions liostile  to  him,  but  to  the  great  mass, 
who,  in  Hots/iin-s  phrase,  loved  their  own 
shops  or  barns  better  than  his  house. 

Sir  W.  .Scott. 

Hot'spur  of  Debate.  A  sobriquet 
given  bv  ]Macaiilay  to  the  Earl  of 
Derby  ("b.  1799),  on  account  of  his 
fiery' invective  and  vehemence  of 
declamation. 

Hours.     See  Hor.e. 

House  of  Fame.  The  title  of  a  cele- 
brated poem  of  Chaucer's,  and  the 
name  of  a  magniticent  palace  de- 
scribed in  it  as  built  upon  a  mountain 


For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


HOU 


177 


HUG 


of  ice,  and  supported  bv  rows  of 
pillars,  on  which  are  inscribed  the 
names  of  the  most  illustrious  poets. 
Here  the  goddess  Fame,  seated  on 
her  throne,  disjjcnses  her  capricious 
and  unjust  judgments  to  the  crowds 
who  come  to  solicit  her  favors. 
Houssain,    Prince.       See     Peince 

HoU.SSAIN. 

Houyhnhnms.  A  name  given  by 
Swift,  in  his  imaginary  "  Travels 
into  several  Remote  Nations  of  the 
World,  by  Lemuel  Gulliver,"  to  a 
race  of  horses  endowed  with  reason. 
The  word  seems  intended  to  be  sug- 
gestive of  the  ichinnyinfj  of  a  horse. 
It  is  a  dissyllable,  and  may  be  pro- 
nounced hoo-inmz',  or  hoo'inmz,  but 
the  voice  should  properly  be  qua- 
vered in  sounding  the  n. 

Nay,  would  kind  Jove  inv  organs  so  dispose 
To  liynin  harmonious  tlouyhnhnms  through 

the  nose, 
I'd  call  thee  Iloui/hnhnm,  that  high-sounding 

name; 
Thy  children's  noses  all  should  twang  the 

same.  I'ope. 

"  True,  true,  —  ay,  too  true,"  replied   the 

Dominie,  his  Huuyfinhnm  laugh  sinking  into 

an  hysterical  giggle.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

If  the  Howjhnhnms  should  ever  catch  me, 
and,  finding  me  particularly  vicious  and  un- 
manageable, send  a  man-bimer  to  Rarey-fy 
me,  I  '11  tell  you  what  drugs  he  would  have  to 
take,  and  how  he  would  have  to  use  them. 

Holmes. 

HO'^e,  Miss.  A  personage  who  tigures 
in  liichardson's  novel  of  "  Clarissa 
Harlowe." 

4E^  "  Miss  Howe  is  an  admirably 
Bketched  character  drawn  in  strong  con- 
trast to  that  of  Clarissa,  yet  worthy  of 
being  her  friend,  with  more  of  worldly  per- 
Bpicarity,  though  less  of  abstracted  prin- 
ciple, and  who.  when  they  argue  upon 
points  of  doubt  an<l  delicacy,  is  often 
able,  by  going  directly  to  the  question  at 
issue,  to  start  the  game,  while  lier  more 
gifted  correspondent  does  but  beat  the 
bush.  Her  high  spirit  and  disinterested 
devotion  for  her  friend,  acknowledging, 
as  she  does  on  all  occasions,  her  own  in- 
feriority, show  her  in  a  noble  point  of 
■view.'"  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Hubbard,  and  Hubberd,  Mother. 
See  MoTiiKR  Hubbard,  and  MoTHEK 

HUBBEKD. 

Hub  of  the  Universe.  A  jocular 
designation  of  the  state -house  in 
Boston,  Massachusetts,  originating 
with  the  American  humorist,  Oliver 


Wendell  Holmes  ;  sometimes  ex- 
tended, in  its  application,  to  the  city 
itself. 
Hu'di-bras.  The  title  and  hero  of  a 
celebrated  satirical  poem  l)v  Sanmel 
Butler  (l()U0-l(J80).  lludibras  is  a 
Presbyterian  justice,  of  the  time  of  the 
Commonweaith,  who,  iired  with  the 
same  species  of  madness  as  the  Don 
Quixote  of  Cervantes,  sets  out  (in 
company  with  his  squire,  Kalph,  an 
Independent  clerk,  with  whom  he  is 
almost  always  engaged  in  contro- 
versy) to  correct  abuses,  and  to  en- 
force the  obsen-ance  of  the  strict 
laws  enacted  by  parliament  for  the 
suppression  of  the  sports  and  amuse- 
ments of  the  people. 

SSf"  lUitler  is  said  to  have  taken  the 
name  of  his  hero  from  the  old  romances 
of  chivalry,  Sir  Hugh  de  Bras  being  the 
appellation  of  one  of  the  knights  of  Ar- 
thur's fabulous  Kound  'I'able.  A  "Sir 
Huddibras  "  figures  in  Spenser's  "^  Faery 
Queen,"  and  is  described  as  '>  an  hardy 
man."  but  ''more  huge  in  strength  than 
wise  in  works."  '••  Huddibras  "  was  also 
the  name  of  a  fabulous  king  of  England, 
who  is  said  to  have  founded  Canterbury, 
Winchester,  and  Shaftesbury. 

He  became  wretched  enough.  As  was  natu- 
ral, with  haggard  searcitv  tlireatening  him  in 
the  distance,  and  so  ve"heinent  a  soul  lan- 
guishing in  restless  inaction,  and  forced  there- 
by, like  Sir  Hiulibms^x  sword  by  rust, 

"  To  eat  into  itself,  for  lack 
Of  something  else  to  hew  and  hack! " 

t'arlt/Je. 

Hug'gins  and  Mug'gins.     A  jocular 
embodiment  of  vulgar  pretension. 

^fg^  It  has  been  suggested  that  the.se 
names  are  a  corruption  of  Hooge  en  Mo- 
gendt  (high  and  mighty),  words  occur- 
ring in  the  style  of  the  Sfcites  General  of 
Holland,  much  ridiculed  by  English  writ- 
ers of  the  liitter  part  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  as,  for  example,  in  the  following 
couplet :  — 

But  I  have  sent  him  for  a  token 

To  your  Low-Country  Hogen  Mof/en. 

ihidibras. 
JS^S"  "  Although  we  have  never  felt  the 
least  inclination  to  indulge  in  conjectural 
etymology,  .  .  .  we  cannot  refrain,  for 
once,  from  noticing  the  curious  coin- 
cidence between  the  names  of  Odin's 
ravens,  Hugin  and  Munin, — Mind  and 
Memory. — and  those  of  two  personages 
who  figure  so  often  in  our  comic  literature 
as  Messrs.  Hoggins  and  Muggins.  .  .  . 
Should  this  conjfrture,  for  it  Is  nothing 
else,   be  well  founded,  one  of  the  most 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  ziv-xzxii. 
12 


HUG 


178 


HUR 


poetical  Ideas  in  the  whole  range  of  my- 
thology would,  in  this  plodding,  practi- 
cal, spinniuc-jeuuy  ni^i  ot  ours,  have  thus 
undergone   a    most    singular    metamor- 
phosis."'  BacJcweU. 
"SVhitford  and  Mitford  joined  the  tmiu, 
Uugnins  ami  Mifji/iiis  from  Lhick  Luue, 
And  Clutterbiick,  who  i^ot  a  f piuiu 
Before  the  plu>f  was  I'ouiid. 

liijected  Addresses, 

Hugh  of  Lincoln.  A  legea  Jury  per- 
soiia<;e  wlio  forms  the  subject  of 
Chaucer's  "  Prioress's  Tale,"  and 
also  of  an  ancient  English  ballad. 
The  story  lias  its  origin  in  the  chron- 
icle of  iSlatthew  Paris,  who,  in  his 
account  of  the  reign  of  Henry  III., 
relates,  that,  in  the  year  1255,  the 
Jews  of  Lincoln  stole  a  boy  named 
Hugh,  of  the  age  of  eight  years, 
whom,  after  torturing  for  ten  days, 
they  crucitied  before  a  large  number 
of  their  people,  in  contempt  of  the 
death  of  the  Founder  of  Christianity. 
Eighteen  of  the  richest  and  most 
distinguished  .Jews  of  Lincoln  were 
hanged  for  participation  in  this  mur- 
der, while  the  body  of  the  child  Avas 
buried  Avith  the  honors  of  a  martyr, 
in  Lincoln  Cathedral.  The  story  has 
been  generally  discredited  by  modern 
historians.  Wordsworth  has  given  a 
modernized  version  of  Chaucer's  tale. 

Hugh  Roe.  [That  is,  Red  Hugh.] 
The  eldest  son  of  Sir  Hugh  O'Don- 
nell,  of  Ireland,  who  flourished  at  the 
time  of  the  intestine  wars  of  that 
country,  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth. 
He  Avas  a  man  of  great  abilities  and 
ambition. 

Hugin  (hoo'gin).  [Old  Norse,  thought, 
intellect.]  {Scaml.  Mijt'i.)  One  of 
Odin's  two  ravens,  Avho  carried  him 
neAvs  from  earth,  and  Avho,  Avhen  not 
thus  employed,  perched  npon  his 
shoulders.  See  Huggins  and  Mug- 
gins. 

Hugon  (ii'gon',  34,  G2).  A  kind  of 
evil  spirit,  in  the  popular  superstition 
of  France,  a  sort  of  ogre  made  use 
of  to  frighten  children.  It  has  been 
said  that  from  him  the  French  Prot- 
estants Avere  called  "  Huguenots,"  on 
account  of  the  desolation  resulting 
from  the  religious  Avars  Avhich  Avere 
imputed  to  them;  but  the  assertion 
is  an  incorrect  one. 


Huguenot  Pope.  [Fr.  Le  Pape  des 
Ilu(jutiiots.\  A  title  bestowed  upon 
Philippe  de  Moriiay  (154l»-102.:i),  a 
distingui.shed  l-rencli  nobleman,  and 
an  able  supporter  of  the  Protestant 
cause.  He  was  so  called  on  account 
of  the  ability  of  his  arguments  and 
the  weight  of  his  personal  influence 
in  behalf  of  the  reformed  religion. 

Humphrey,     Duke.        See     Duke 

llU.AlVHliEV. 

Humptirey,  Master.    See   Master 

IlUMI'IIKKY. 

Humphrey,  Old.  See  Old  Hum- 
ph kky. 

Hundred  Days.  [Fr.  Les  Cent 
Jmijs.^  A  name  given  to  the  period 
which  interA'ened  betAveen  the  en- 
trance of  Napoleon  Bonaparte  into 
Paris  (March  20,  1815),  after  his 
escape  from  the  island  of  Elba,  and 
his  abdication  in  favor  of  his  son 
{June  22). 

Hunkers.    See  Old  Hunkers. 

Hunter,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Leo.  Char- 
acters in  Dickens's  "  PickAvick  Pa- 
pers," distinguished,  as  the  name  in- 
dicates, for  their  desire  to  make  the 
acquaintance  of  all  the  "  lions"  of  the 
day. 

Mr.  Dickens  was  the  grand  object  of  inter- 
est to  the  whole  tribe  of  Zeo //uwters,  male  and 
female,  of  the  metropolis.  Qu.  Rev. 

Huon  of  Bordeaux,  Sir  (bof'do'). 
The  hero  of  one  of  the  romances  of 
chivalry  bearing  his  name.  He  is 
represented  as  having  been  a  great 
faA^orite  of  Oberon,  the  fairy  king. 
An  abstract  of  this  romance  may  be 
found  in  Dunlop's  "  History  of  Fic- 
tion," or  in  Keightley's  "  Fairy  My- 
thologA'."  The  adventures  of  Sir 
Huon  form  the  subject  of  "Wioland's 
beautiful  poem  of  "  Oberon,"  known 
to  the  English  reader  by  Sotheby's 
translation. 

I  will  carry  him  off  from  the  very  foot  of  the 
gallows  into"  the  land  of  fai-ry,  like  Kin;;  Ar- 
thur, or  Sir  Iluon  ot'  Jionleatuc,  or  Uirero  the 
Dane.  .SiV  »'.  Scott. 

Hurlo-thrum'bo.  The  chief  char- 
acter in  a  play,  entitled  "  Hurlo- 
thrumbo,  or  The  Supernatural,"  by 
Samuel  Johnson  (d.  17731,  an  Eng- 
lish actor  and  dramatic  Avriter.  The 
Avhimsicalness  and  originality  of  this 


as-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations. 


HYA 


179 


HYP 


play,  which  is  an  absurd  compound 
oi  fxtrava{j;ant  incidents  and  uncon- 
nected diaiogucb,  gave  it  great  suc- 
cess- 
Consider,  then,  before,  like  Jlarlothrunibo, 
V.(ju  aim  >our  cluL)  at  any  creed  on  earth, 
That,  uy  the  simple  accident  of  hu  th, 
You  mignt  have  been  higii-priest  to  Mumbo 
J  u. 11  DO.  Hood, 

Hy'a-cin'thus.  [Gr.  'Yaxii/flo?.]  ( Gr. 
ij-  liuin.  Mijtii.)  A  Spartan  boy  of 
extraordinary  beauty,  beloved  by 
Apollo,  wlio  uiuntentionally  killed 
him  in  a  game  ot  quoits.  Anotiier 
form  of  tne  myth  is  that  lie  was 
beloved  also  by  Zephyrus  or  Boreas, 
Avho,  from  jealout^y  of  Apollo,  drove 
the  quoit  of  the  god  against  the  head 
of  the  boy,  and  thus  killed  him. 
Apollo  changed  the  blood  that  was 
spilt  into  a  dower  called  the  hyacinth, 
on  the  leaves  of  which  there  appeared 
the  exclamation  of  woe,  AI,  A I  (alas, 
alas),  or  the  letter  Y,  the  initial  of 

'Ya/ctfOos- 

Hy'a-des.  [Gr.  'YaSe?,  the  rainy.] 
{(Jr.  (J-  Rom.  Myth.)  A  class  of 
nymphs  commonly  said  to  be  seven 
in  number,  and  their  names  to  be 
Ambrosia,  Eudora,  Pedile,  Coronis, 
Polyxo,  Phyto,  and  Thyene  orDione. 
They  were  placed  among  the  stars 
(foniiing  the  constellation  Taurus)^ 
and  were  thought  to  threaten  rain 
when  they  rose  with  the  sun. 

Hy'drS.  [Gr.  "YSpa.]  {Gr.  (f-  Rom. 
Jfi/fh.)  A  many-headed  water-ser- 
pent which  inhabited  the  marshes  of 
Lema,  in  Argolis,  near  the  sea-coast. 
As  fast  as  one  of  its  heads  was  cut 
off,  two  sprang  up  in  its  place.  Her- 
cules, however,  killed  it  with  the 
assistance  of  his  friend  lolaus. 

Hy-e;e'i-3  (20).  [Gr.  'Yvteia,  'Yvf-'a.] 
{Gr.  4^' Rom.  Myth.)     The  goddess 


of  health,  a  daughter  of  iEsculapios. 

In  works  of  art,  slie  is  usually  repre- 
sented as  a  blooming  virgin,  wuti  a 
snalve,  the  symbol  of  nealtn,  drinking 
Irom  a  cup  Held  in  her  hand.  \_\\  rit- 
ten  also  11  y  g e  a  and  Hygia.J 

Hy'ias.  [Gr.  YAa?.]  {Gr.  if  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  beautitul  youth  passion- 
ately loved  by  Here  ides,  wiiom  he 
aceonipanied  on  tlie  Argonautic  ex- 
pedition. He  was  carried  otf  by  the 
nympns  on  the  coast  of  Mysia,  as 
he  was  drawing  water  from  a  loun- 
tain.  Hercules  long  sought  for  him 
in  vain. 

The  self-same  lay 
Which  melted  in  music,  tlie  night  before. 
From  lips  as  the  lips  of  Ib/las  sweet, 
And  moved  like  twin  roses  which  zephyrs 
meet.  Whittie,r. 

Hy'men,  or  Hym-'e-nse'us.  [Gr. 
'Y/ujji',  '\ix€vaio<;.\  {  Gr.  <f  Roiii.  Myth.) 
The  god  of  marriage,  a  son  of  Bac- 
chus and  Venus,  or,  according  to 
some,  of  Apollo  and  one  of  the  Muses. 
He  is  represented  as  a  winged  boy 
crowned  with  a  garland,  and  hav- 
ing a  bridal  torch  and  a  veil  in  his 
hand. 


There  let  Hi/men  ofl  appear 

In  safiron  robe,  with  taper  clear. 


MUton. 


Hyperboreans.  [Gr.  'YTreo^opeot,  i.  e. 
dwellers  beyond  Boreas,  or  the  north 
wind ;  Lat.  Flyperboi^ei.]  {  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  fabulous  people  living  at 
the  farthest  north,  supposed  by  the 
Greeks  to  be  the  favorites  of  Apollo, 
and  therefore  in  the  enjoyment  of 
a  terrestrial  paradise  and  everlasting 
youth  and  health. 

H^-pe'ri-on  (9)  {classical pron.  hip'e- 

•rT'on).    [Gr. 'YTreotajt'l.     {Gr.  (f  Rom.. 

Myth.)     One  of  the  Titans,  a  son  of 

Coelus    and  Terra,  and  the  father  of 

Sol,  Luna,  and  Aurora. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Kules  to  which  the  numberi  after  certain  word*  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiu 


lAC 


180 


ILL 


I. 


I-ac'chus.  [Gr.  'i«utxo?].  ( G7\  cf-  Rom. 
Mjiii.)  A  poetic  suruanie  of  Bacchus. 

lacu'i-mo  (yak'i-iuo).  Tlie  iiaiiie  of 
an  Italian  villain,  in  .Shalvt'sijeare's 
"  Cynibtline,"  celebrated  lur  Uie  art, 
adclro.s,  audacity,  and  ill  success, 
"vvitii  whicn  he  attempts  the  chastity 
of  Imogen,  the  wife  of  I'osthunius, 
and  tor  the  daring'  nnpusture  by 
which  he  conceals  ttie  defeat  of  his 
project. 

I  know  ■where  she  kept  that  packet  she  had, 

—  raid  cau  steal  iu  aud  out  oi  her  ehuiiiber 
like  lacJiiiiio.  I'kuckcruij. 

lago  (e-a'go).  The  "ancient,"  or  en- 
sign, of  Othello,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  o^  this  name ;  "  a  being  of 
motiveless  malignity,  passionless,  sell- 
jttossessed,  skeptical  oi  all  truth  and 
purity,  —  theabslract  of  the  reasoning 
power  in  the  highest  state  of  activity, 
but  without  love,  Avithout  veneration, 
a  being  next  to  devil,  and  only  not 
quite  devil,  and  yet  a  character  which 
Shakespeare  has  attempted  and  exe- 
cuted without  bcandal." 

Rirhnrd  Plnntaprpnet  was  one  of  those,  who, 
in  lafio'it  words,  would  not  serve  God  becatise 
it  was  the  Devil  who  bade  hiui.    6V/-  fV.  Scott. 

I-ap'e-tUS.        [Gt.    'laTrerd?.]        (  Gr.     <.f 

Rom.  .} filth.)  A  Titan  or  a  giant, 
the  father  of  Atlas,  Prometheus,  and 
Epimetheus,  regarded  bv  the  Greeks 
as  the  ancestor  of  the  human  race. 

i-be'ri-a    (9).      [Gr.    'i^r,pia.]      The 

Greek    name   of    Spain;    sometimes 

used  by  ancient  Latin  authors,  and 

also  in  modern  poetry. 

A'i:  thou  too  fallen,  Vieria  ?    Do  we  see 
The  robber  and  the  murderer  weak  as  we? 

Cowpcr. 

Ic'a-rus.  [Gr,  'Ixapos.]  (  Or.  <f  Rom. 
^[yt]^.)  A  son  of  Da-dalus,  who, 
flying  with  liis  father  out  of  Crete, 
soared  so  high  that  the  sun  melted 
his  wings,  and  he  fell  into  the  sea, 

—  which  was  called  after  him  the 
Icarian  Sea. 

Belloisle  is  an  imajrinary  sun-crod;  but  the 
poor  /'■ar".«,  tempted  nlofl  in  tl""t  I'vnner  i'*o 
the  earnest  elements,  iind  nieltiinr  at  once 
into  quills  and  rags,  is  a  tragic  reality! 

Carlyle. 


I-dom'e-neus.  [Gr.  'iSo/aercv?.]  ( Or. 
O'-  Rovi.  MyUi.)  A  king  of  Crete, 
celebrated  for  his  beauty,  and  tor  his 
braver\'  at  the  siege  of  'I'rov.  wbither 
lie  led  the  Cretans.  He  was  banished 
troni  his  dominions  by  his  own  sub- 
jects lor  bringing  a  plague  upon  them 
in  consequence  ot  sacrificing  his  son 
on  account  of  a  vo\v  which  he  had 
made  to  Xtptune  in  a  tempest. 

Iduna  (e-doo'na.)  [Scmid.  Myth.)  The 
goddess  of  youth,  and  the  wife  of 
Bragi.  She  was  the  guardian  of  the 
apples  of  iminortalit}-,  the  Juice  of 
which  gave  the  gods  ))erpetual  youth, 
health,  and  beauty.  [Written  also 
I  dun,  Idunna.] 

I-ger'na(4).  The  beautiful  wifeofGor- 
lois,  Duke  of  Tintadiel,  or  'J'intagel, 
in  Cornwall,  and  mother  of  the  illus- 
trious Arthur,  by  Uther,  a  legendary 
king  of  Britain,  whom  Merlin,  the 
renowned  magician,  changed  into  the 
semblance  of  Gorlois,  thus  enabling 
him  to  impose  upon  the  duke's  wife, 
ibr  whom  he  had  conceived  a  violent 
passion.  [  W ritten  also  I  g  e  r  n  e  and 
Yguern  e.] 

I-li'o-neus.  [Gr.  'lAioi'ei  ?.]  (  Gr.  cf 
Rom.  Myth.\  1.  A  son  of  Niobe, 
unintentionally  killed,  while  praying, 
by  Apollo. 

2.  A  Trojan,  distinguished  for  his 
elofpienco. 

n'i-thy'i-l  (20).  [Gr.  EJAfi'evca.]  {Gr. 
Myth.)  The  goddess  of  birth,  who 
came  to  women  in  travail,  and  short- 
ened or  protracted  the  labor,  accord- 
ing as  she  happened  to  be  kindly 
disposed  or  the  reverse.  She  cor- 
responds Avith  the  Roman  Litcinn. 
Homer  mentions  more  than  one,  and 
calls  them  daughters  of  Hera,  or 
Juno. 

Il'i--um,  or  Il'i-6n.  [Gr. 'lAior.]  A 
poetical  name  for  Troy,  which  was 
founded  by  Ilus. 

ni-TTOunded  Peace.  (/>.  TTlst.) 
The  name  commonly  given  to  a 
treaty  between  the   Huguenots  and 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying   Explanation^ 


ILL 


181 


INN 


the  Roman  Catholics,  conchidcd 
March  23,  1568.  It  was  a  n\ere 
stratagem  on  the  part  of  the  hitter  to 
■weaken  their  opponents,  and  was  soon 
broken.  [CaUed  also  L'lnie  and  Un- 
stable Peace  and  Patchtd-up  Peace.] 

Uluminated  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
lllumlnatns.]  1.  A  title  bestowed 
upon  Raymond  l>ulle,or  LuUy  (1-235- 
1315),  a  distinguished  scholastic,  and 
author  of  the  system  called  '*  Ars 
Lulliana."  which  "was  taught  through- 
out Europe  for  several  centuries,  and 
the  purpose  of  which  was  to  jirove 
that  the  mysteries  of  faith  are  not 
contrary  to  reason. 

2.  A  title  conferred  upon  John 
Tauler  (1294-1361),  a  celebrated 
German  mystic,  on  account  of  the 
visions  he  professed  to  have  seen, 
and  the  spiritual  voices  he  professed 
to  have  heard. 

3.  An  honorary  appellation  given 
to  Francois  de  Mairone  (d.  1327),  a 
French  religious  writer. 

Uluminator,  The.  A  surname  com- 
monly given  to  St.  Gregory  of  Arme- 
nia, a  celebrated  bishop  of  the  primi- 
tive church,  whose  memory  is  held  in 
great  reverence  by  the  Greek,  Coptic, 
Abyssinian,  Armenian,  and  Roman 
Catholic  churches. 

Imlac.  A  character  in  Dr.  Johnson's 
"  Rasselas." 

Im'o-gen.  The  wife  of  Posthumus, 
and  the  daughter  of  Cymbeline  by  a 
deceased  wife,  in  Shakespeare's  play 
of  this  name.  She  is  distinguished 
for  her  unalterable  and  magnanimous 
fidelity  to  her  mistaken  husband,  by 
whom  she  is  unjustly  persecuted. 
"Of  all  Shakespeare's  women,"  says 
Hazlitt,  "  she  is,  perhaps,  the  most 
tender  and  the  most  artless." 

Imogine,  The  Fair.     See  Fair  Imo- 

GINH. 

Lmperial  City.  One  of  the  names  by 
which  Rome  —  for  many  ages  the 
seat  of  empire —  is  familiarly  known. 

Impertinent,    The    Curious.      See 

Curious  Impertinent,  The. 
Ind.    A  poetical  contraction  of  India. 

High  on  a  throne  of  royal  state,  which  far 
Out-<hone  the  wealth  of  Orm us  anil  of  7«'^  .  .  . 
Satan  exalted  sat.  Milton. 


In'dra.  [Sansk.,  the  discoverer,  sct7., 
of  tiie  doings  of  the  world.]  ( Hindu 
Myth.)  The  ever  youthful  god  of 
the  tirmament,  and  the  omnipotent 
ruler  of  the  elements.  He  is  a  most 
imjxjrtant  personage  in  Indian  fable. 
In  the  Vedic  ])eriod  of  the  Hindu 
religion,  he  occupied  a  foremost  rank, 
and,  though  degraded  to  an  inferior 
position  in  the  Fpic  and  Puranic  pe- 
riods, he  long  enjoyed  a  great  legend- 
ary po|)ularity.  In  works  of  art,  he 
is  represented  as  riding  on  a  gigantic 
elephant. 

"  Then,"  as  Iiidra  says  of  Kehania,  "  then 
was  the  time  to  strike."  Macaxday. 

In'golds-by,  Thomas.  A  pseudonym 
adojiteil  by  the  Rev.  Richard  Barham 
(1788-1815),  author  of  a  series  of  hu- 
morous tales  in  verse  entitled  "  The 
Ingoldsby  Legends,"  —  wild  and 
wondrous  stories  of  chivalry,  witch> 
craft,  and  diiddtrie,  related  in  singu- 
larly rich  and  flexible  meter,  and  in 
language  in  which  the  intermixture 
of  the  modern  cant  phrases  of  soci- 
ety with  antiquarian  pedantry  pro- 
duces a  truly  comic  effect. 

Iniquity,  The.  A  personage  who 
figured  in  the  old  English  moralities, 
mysteries,  and  other  dramas:  the 
same  as  The  Vice.     See  Vice,  The. 

In'kle,  Mr.  Thomas  (ingk'l).  The 
hero  of  a  story  by  Sir  Ricbard  Steele 
in  the  "  Spectator  "  (No.  11 ) ;  a  young 
Englishman  who  got  lost  in  the 
Spanish  Main,  where  he  fell  in  love 
Avith  a  young  Indian  maiden  named 
Yarico,  with  whom  he  lived  for  many 
months;  but,  having  discovered  a 
vessel  on  the  coast,  he  went  with  her 
to  Barbadoes,  and  there  sold  her  into 
slavery.  The  stor\'  of  Inkle  and 
Yarico  has  been  made  the  subject  of 
an  opera  by  George  Colman. 

Innamorato,  Orlando.    See  Ori.an- 

DO. 

In'nis-fail.  An  ancient  name  of 
Ireland,  signifying  the  isle  of  dtstimj. 

Oh  !  once  the  harp  of  Innisfail 

Was  striinsr  full  hitrh  to  notes  of  gladness-, 
But  yet  it  often  told  a  tale 

Of'more  prevailing  sadness.  Campbell. 

Innocents,  The.  A  name  given,  fr,-»m 
early   times,  to    the    infants    whom 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


INO 


182 


IRI 


Herod  massacred  at  Bethlehem.  They 
were  termed  in  l^atin  iiiuoctiUts,  ironi 
in,  not,  and  nocere,  to  hurt.  These 
harmless  ones  were  revered  by  the 
Church  from  the  lirst,  and  honored, 
on  the  third  day  alter  Cliristmas,  as 
martyrs;  and  with  tliem  were  con- 
nected many  strange  observances, 
such  as  tlie  festival  ot  the  boy-bishop, 
and,  in  opposition  to  this,  the  whip- 
ping children  out  of  their  beds  on  that 
morning.  In  tiie  mf)dern  Cluireh,  the 
feast  of  the  Holy  lnn(»cents  is  cele- 
brated as  a  special  holiday  by  the 
young,  and  many  curious  and  sport- 
ive customs  connected  with  it  prevail 
in  Catholic  countries.  The  relics  of 
the  Holy  Innocents  were  great  fa- 
vorites in  the  Middle  Ages.  The 
Massacre  of  the  Innocents  is  the  sub- 
ject of  a  poem  by  John  Baptist  Ma- 
rino (15GU-1U25),  the  lluliau  poet. 

t'ro.  [Cxr.  •Ii'ai.]  {Gr.  4' Rom.  Myth.) 
A  daughter  of  Cadmus  and  Hermione, 
sister  of  Semele,  and  wife  of  Athamas, 
king  of  Thebes.  Being  pursued  by 
her  husband,  —  who  had  become  rav- 
ing mad,  —  she  threw  herself  into  the 
sea  with  her  son  ^Melicertes,  where- 
upon they  were  both  changed  into 
sea-deities. 

Inspired  Idiot.  A  sobriquet  applied 
by  Horace  Walpole  to  Oliver  Gold- 
smith (1728-1774),  on  account  of  his 
exquisite  genius,  his  ungainly  per- 
son, his  awkward  manners,  and  his 
fi'equent  blunders  and  absurdities. 

Interpreter.  The.  A  personage  in 
Bunyan's  allegorical  romance,  "  The 
Pilgrim's  Progress,"  designed  to  sym- 
bolize the  Holy  Spirit.  Christian,  on 
his  way  to  the  Celestial  City,  called 
at  the  Interpreter's  house,  where  he 
was  shown  many  wonderful  sights, 
the  remembrance  of  which  Avas  "  as 
a  goad  in  his  sides  to  prick  him  for- 
ward "  in  his  journey. 

Invincible  Armada.  See  Armada, 
The  Invinc'Iule. 

Invincible  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Jnvincibilis.]  An  appellation  con- 
ferred upon  William  of  Occam,  a 
celebrated  English  scholastic  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  on  account  of  his 
rigorously  logical  and  rational  treat- 


ment of  Nominalism,  of  which  he 
was  a  zealous  advocate. 

I'd.  [Gr. -loi.]  (Gr.  4-  Rom.  Myth.) 
A  daughter  of  Inachus,  king  of  Argos. 
She  was  beloved  by  Jupiter,  who 
turned  her  into  a  cow,  learmg  the 
jealousy  of  Juno.  Juno,  however, 
set  the  hundred-eyed  Argus  to  watch 
her,  and  Jupiter  ni  return  had  him 
killed  by  Mercury.  Thereupon  lo 
was  smitten  with  madness  by  Juno, 
and,  wandering  about,  came  at  last  to 
Egypt,  where  siie  was  restored  to  her 
own  Ibrni,  married  King  Osiris,  aud, 
after  death,  was  worshiped  by  the 
Egpytiaus  mider  the  name  of  Ms. 

I'o-la'us.  [Gr.  'idAaog.]  (  Or.  cf-  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Iphicles,  and  a 
faithful  friend  and*  servant  of  Her- 
cules. He  assisted  his  master  in 
destroying  the  Lerna^an  hydra.  See 
Hkkcules  and  Hydka. 

Iph'I-ge-ni'a.  [Gr.  'li^nyiveia.']  ( Gr.  <j- 
Rom.  Myth. )  A  daughter  of  Agamem- 
non and  Clytemnestra.  Her  father 
having  killed  in  Aulis  a  favorite  deer 
belonging  to  Diana,  the  soothsayer 
Calchas  declared  that  Iphigenia  must 
be  sacriticed  to  appease  the  wrath  of 
the  goddess.  But  when  she  was  on 
the  point  of  being  slain,  Diana  carried 
her  in  a  cloud  to  Tauris,  and  made 
her  a  priestess  in  her  temple. 

rphis.  [Gr.  -1*1?.]  {Gr.  4'  Rom. 
Myth. )  A  Cyprian  youth  Avho  hanged 
himself  because  his  love  for  the  high- 
born Anaxarete  was  not  reciprocated, 
and  whose  fate  the  gods  avenged  by 
changing  Anaxarete  to  stone. 

I'rSs  (9).  An  attendant  on  Cleopatra, 
in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Antony 
and  Cleopatra." 

I-re'ne.  [Gr.  Etpvji/r;.]  (Myth.)  The 
goddess  of  peace  among  the  Greeks. 

I'ris  (9).  [Gr.  'ipi?.]  {Gr.  ff  ^om. 
Myth.)  The  daughter  of  Thaumas 
and  Electra,  and  sister  of  the  Harpies. 
She  was  one  of  the  Oceanides,  and 
messenger  of  the  gods,  more  partic- 
ularly of  Juno.  She  is  generally 
regarded  as  a  personification  of  the 
rainbow;  but  the  prevalent  notion 
among  the  ancients  seems   to  have 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationfl, 


IRI 


183 


ISA 


been  that  the  rainbow  was  only  the 

f)ath  on  wliich  Iris  traveled    between 
leaven  and  earth,  and  that  it  there- 
fore appeared  whenever  tlie  goddess 
wanted  it,  and  vanished  when  it  was 
no  longer  needed. 
trish  Agitator.     An    epithet  applied 
to  Daniel  O'Connell  (1775-1847),  the 
leader  of  the  political  movements  in 
Ireland  for  the  emancipation  of  Roman 
Catholics  from  civil   disabilities,  and 
for  the   repeal  of  the   Act  of  Union 
between  Great  Britain  and    Ireland, 
which  was  passed  on  the  2d  of  July, 
1800. 
Irish  Night.     {Eng.  Illsi.)    A  night 
of  agitation  and   terror  in   London, 
after  the   flight  of  James  II.,  occa- 
sioned by  an  unfounded  report  that 
the  Irisli   Catholics  of    Feversham's 
army  had  been  let  loose  to  murder 
the  Protestant  population,  men,  wom- 
en, and  children. 
Iroldo    (e-rol'do).       A    character    in 
Bojardo's    "  Orlando    Innamorato,  " 
distinguished  tor  his   friendship   for 
Prasildo,     See  Prasildo. 
Iron  Age.     [Lat.  Ferrea  wtas.']     (  Gr. 
(/  Rom.  Myth.)     The  last  of  the  four 
ages  into  which  the  ancients  divided 
the  history  of  the  human   race;  the 
age  of  Pluto,  characterized   by   the 
prevalence  of  crime,  fraud,  cunning, 
and  avarice,  and  the  absence  of  honor, 
truth,  justice,  and  piety. 
Iron   Arm.     [Fr.  B7'ns  de  Fer.^     A 
surname  or  sobriquet  given  to  Fran- 
cois de  Lanoue  (1531-1591),  a  famous 
Calvinistic  captain,  who  died  at  the 
siege  of  Lamballe,  in  the  service  of 
Henr}'  IV. 
Iron  City.     A  name  popularly  given, 
in   the   United   States,   to  Pittsburg, 
Pennsylvania,   a   city    distinguished 
for  its  numerous  and  immense   iron 
manufactures. 
Iron  Duke.     A  familiar  title  given  to 
the  Duke  of  Wellington.     According 
to   his  biographer,   the  Rev.  George 
Robert  Gleig,  this  sobriquet  arose  out 
of  the  building  of  an  iron  steamboat, 
which  plied  between   Liverpool  and 
Dublin,  and  which  its  owners  called 
the  "  Duke  of  Wellington."  The  term 
"  Iron  Duke  "  was  hrst  applied  to  the 


vessel ;  and  by  and  by,  rather  in  jest 
tlian  in  earnest,  it  was  transferred  to 
the  Duke  himself.  It  had  no  ret'erence 
whatever,  at  the  outset,  to  any  ])eculi- 
arities,  or  assumed  peculiarities,  in  his 
disposition;  though,  from  the  jiopu- 
lar  belief  that  he  never  entertained  a 
single  generous  feeling  toward  the 
masses,  it  is  sometimes  understood  as 
a  ligm'ative  allusion  to  his  supposed 
hostility  to  the  interests  of  the  lower 
orders. 
Iron  Hand.  A  surname  of  Gottfried, 
or  Goetz,  von  Berlichingen,  a  famous 
predatory  burgrave  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  who,  at  the  siege  of  Land- 
shut,  lost  his  right  hand,  which  was 
replaced  by  one  of  iron,  yet  shown 
at  Jaxthausen.  Goethe  has  made 
him  the  subject  of  an  historic  drama. 

Iron  Mask.     See  Mask,  Ikon. 

Ironside.  1.  A  surname  conferred 
upon  Edmund  II.  (989-1016),  king 
of  the  Anglo-Saxons,  on  account 
either  of  his  great  strength,  or  else 
of  the  armor  which  he  wore.  [Writ- 
ten also  Ironsides.] 

2,  (Nes'tor.)  A  name  under 
which  Sir  Richard  Steele  edited  the 
"Guardian." 

3.  (Sir.)  One  of  the  principal 
knights  of  King  Arthur's  Round  Ta- 
ble.    See  Round  Table. 

Ironsides.  1.  A  name  given  to  the 
English  soldiers  who  served  under 
Cromwell  at  IMarston  jNIoor,  on  ac- 
count of  the  great  victory  they  there 
gained  over  the  royalist  forces,  a  vic- 
tory which  gave  them  a  world-wide 
renown  for  invincible  courage  and 
determination. 

2.  An  appellation  popularly  con- 
ferred upon  the  United  States  frigate 
"Constitution."       See    Old    Iuon- 

SIDES. 

Irrefragable  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Jrrefraf/abilis.]  An  honorary  title 
bestowed  upon  Alexander  Hales,  an 
English  friar  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, distinguished  as  a  scholastic 
divine  and  philosopher. 

Isabella.  1.  Sister  to  Claudio,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Measure  for  Meas- 
ure," and  the  heroine  of  the  drama. 
See  Angelo. 


tnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer.  Bee  pp.  xiv-xxxu. 


ISA 


184 


ISL 


2.  Tlie  ]a(U'-love  of  Zerbino,  in 
Ariostos  poeiu  ot  **  Orluiidu  i'  urioso." 

Isaie    le    Triste.       See    Ysaie     le 

TitlSTE. 

Isengrin  (e'zen-gren')-  The  name  of 
the  wolf  hi  the  ancient  and  famous 
animal-ei)os  of  Germany,  *'  lieinhard, 
or  Keinecke,  Fuchs."     See  Kenaru. 

I'sis.  [Gr.no-15.]  {yfyth.)  An  Egyp- 
tian divinity,  regarded  as  the  god- 
dess of  the  'moon,  and  the  queen  of 
heaven.  She  was  the  mother  of  Ho- 
rns, and  the  wife  of  Osiris.  She  was 
sometimes  represented  with  the  head 
veiled,  a  synd)ol  of  mystery.  Her 
7\-orship  spread  from  Egypt  to  (ireece, 
Kome,  and  other  parts  of  ancient 
Europe.  The  Greeks  identitied  her 
with  lo.     See  lo,  Osiris. 

The  drift  of  the  maker  is  dark,  an  Ms  hid  by 
the  veil.  Temu/son. 

Island,  The  Ringing.    See  Ringing 

ISL-^ND. 

Island  City.  A  popular  synonym  for 
Montreal,  the  largest  city  of  i3ritish 
America,  built  on  an  island  of  the 
same  name. 

Island  of  Lanterns.  [Fr.  L'  lie  des 
L'lnterntii.]  In  the  celebrated  satire 
of  Rabelais,  an  imaginary  country 
inhabited  by  false  pretenders  to 
knowledge,  called  lyiiitenwls.  The 
name  was  probaljly  suggested  by  the 
"City  of  Lanterns,"  in  the  Greek 
romance  of  Lucian.  See  City  of 
Lanterns. 

Island  of  St.  Bran'dSn.  A  marvel- 
ous flying  island,  the  subject  of  an 
old  and  widely  spread  legend  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  which  exercised  an  in- 
fluence on  geographical  science  down 
to  a  late  period.  It  is  represented  as 
about  ninety  leagues  in  length,  lying 
west  of  the  Canaries.  This  island 
appears  on  most  of  the  maps  of  the 
time  of  Columbus,  and  is  laid  down 
in  a  French  geographical  chart  of  as 
late  a  date  as  1755,  in  which  it  is 
placed  5^  W.  of  the  island  of  Ferro, 
in  lat.  2^'^  N.  The  name  St.  Bran- 
dan^i  or  Boi'nnrinn,  given  to  this  im- 
aginary island,  is  said  to  be  derived 
fi*om  an  Irish  abbot  who  nourished  in 
the    sixth   century,   and   concerning 


whose  voyage  in  search  of  the  Isl- 
ands of  I'aradise  many  legends  are 
related.  Many  expeditions  were  sent 
lorlh  in  quest  of  tiiis  mysterious  isl- 
and, the  last  being  from  hpain  in 
1721 ;  but  it  always  eluded  the  ^(.  arcii, 
though  it  was  sometimes  seen  by  ac- 
cident. A  king  of  I'ortugal  is  said 
to  have  made  a  conditional  cession 
of  it  to  another  per>un,  "  when  it 
should  be  lound."  The  Spaniards 
believe  this  lost  island  to  have  l)een 
the  retreat  of  their  King  liodrigo; 
the  Portuguese  assign  it  u>  their  uon 
Sebastian.  "Its  reality,"  ^ays  Ir- 
ving, "  was  for  a  long  time  a  matter 
of  linn  belief.  The  public,  alter  try- 
ing all  kinds  of  sophistry,  luok  refuge 
in  the  supernatural  to  defend  their 
favorite  chimera.  They  maintained 
that  it  was  rendered  inaccessible  to 
mortals  by  divine  Frovideiice,  or  by 
diabolical  magic.  Poetry,  it  is  said^ 
owes  to  this  popular  belief  one  of 
its  beautifid  tictions ;  and  the  garden 
of  Armida,  ^vhere  Rinaldo  was  de- 
tained enchanted,  and  which  Tasso 
places  in  one  of  the  Canary  Isles,  has 
been  identified  Avith  the  imaginary 
San  Borandan."  The  origin  of  this 
illusion  has  been  ascribed  to  certain 
atmospherical  deceptions,  like  that 
of  the  Fata  Morgana. 

Island  of  the  Seven  Cities.  An 
imaginary  island,  the  subject  of  one 
of  the  popular  traditions  concerning 
the  ocean,  which  were  current  in  the 
time  of  Columbus.  It  is  represented 
as  abounding  in  gold,  with  magnifi- 
cent houses  and  temples,  and  high 
towers  that  shone  at  a  distance.  The 
legend  relates,  that,  at  the  time  of  the 
conquest  of  Spain  and  Pfirtugal  by 
the  Moors,  when  the  inhabitants  fled 
in  every  direction  to  escape  from 
slavery,  seven  bishops,  followed  by  a 
great  number  of  people,  took  ship- 
ping, and  abandoned  themselves  to 
their  fate  upon  the  high  seas.  After 
tossing  about  for  a  time,  they  landed 
upon  an  unknown  island  in  the  midst 
of  the  ocean.  Here  the  bishops 
burned  the  ships  to  prevent  the  de- 
sertion of  their  followers,  and  found- 
ed seven  cities.  This  mysterious  isl- 
and is  said  to  have  been  visited  at 


E3~  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  acoompanyinjr  Explanations, 


ISL 


185 


IVA 


different  times  by  iiavip^atnrs,  who, 
however,  were  never  penuitted  to  re- 
turn. 

islands  of  the  Blest.  [Gr.  tCjv  Ma- 
xdpiof  Mfjo-oi,  Lat.  Fortunnke  Insuke.\ 
{Gr.  (f  Rom.  Mijth.)  Imaginary  isl- 
ands in  the  west,aboundnig  with  liie 
clioicest  products  of  nature.  They 
were  supposed  to  be  situated  on  tlie 
confines  of  tlie  earth,  in  an  ocean 
warmed  by  the  rays  of  tlie  near  set- 
ting sun.  Hither  the  favorites  of  tlie 
gods  were  conveyed  without  dying, 
and  dwelt  in  never  ending  joy.  The 
name  tirst  occurs  in  Hesiod's  "  Works 
and  Days."  Herodotus  applies  the 
name  to  an  oasis  in  the  desert  of  Af- 
rica. It  is  also  of  connnon  occur- 
rence in  modern  literature. 

Their  place  of  birth  alone  is  mute 
To  sounds  that  echo  further  west 
Than  your  sires'  Isluuds  of  the  Jilest. 

Byro/i. 

Isle  of  Saints,  or  Island  of  Saints. 
[Lat.  Insula  Sdndorum.]  A  name 
by  which  Ireland  was  designated  in 
*he  Middle  Ages,  on  account  of  the 
rapid  progress  which  Christianity 
made  in  tliat  country,  and  the  num- 
ber of  leaiuied  ecclesiastics  which  it 
furnished.     See  Holy  Island,  1. 

"  ^fy  lord,"  uttered  with  a  vernacular  rich- 
ness of  Intonation,  fjave  him  an  assurance  that 
we  were  from  ^^  the  I.tlurul  of  Saints,  and  on 
the  right  road  to  heaven."  Shcil. 

Ismeno  (ez-mn-'no).  The  name  of  a 
sorcerer  in  Tasso's  "  Jerusalem  De- 
livered." 

Is'olde.  The  wife  of  King  Mark  of 
Coi'nwall,  and  the  mistress  of  her 
nephew,  Sir  Tristram,  of  whom  she 
became  passionately  enamored  from 
having  drunk  a  philter  by  mistake. 
Their  illicit  love  is  celebrated  in 
many  an  ancient  romance,  and  l)e- 
came  proverbial  during  the  Middle 
Ages.  References  to  it  are  innumer- 
able. She  is  often  called  Isolde  Ihe 
Foir,  to  distinguish  her  from  IsoMe 
of  the  Whitf  Ilniids,  a  Breton  prin- 
cess Avhom  Tristram  married  after  he 
undertook  the  conquest  of  the  Holy 
Grail.  See  Tkistkam,  Sir.  [Writ- 
ten also  I  s  e  u  1 1,  I  s  o  ii  d  e,  Y  s  e  u  1 1, 
Ysolde,  Ysolt,  Y  sonde,  and, 
very  erroneously,  Y  s  o  n  d  e.] 


No  art  the  poison  might  withstand; 

No  medicine  coulil  be  ibuud 
Till  lovely  hoh/e's  lily  hand 

Had  probed  the  rankling  wound. 

Sir  yV.  Scott. 

Is'ra-feel.  {Mohammedan  Mijth.)  The 
name  of  the  angel  whose"  ofHce  it 
will  be  to  sound  the  trumpet  at  the 
resurrection.  He  is  said  to  have  tho 
most  melodious  voice  of  any  of  God's 
creatures.     [Written  also  Israfil.] 

Is'um-bras,  Sir.  The  hero  of  an  old 
romance  of  ciiivalry,  which  cele- 
brates the  painful  labors  and  misfor- 
tuues  visited  upon  him  as  a  punish- 
ment for  his  pride  and  pi-esnmption, 
and  the  happiness  and  blessings  with 
which  his  penitence  was  tinally  re- 
warded. 

Italian  Moliere  (mo'loQr').  A  title 
given  to  Carlo  Goldoni  (1707-1793), 
a  distinguished  Italian  dramatist. 

Italian  Pin'd|r.  A  name  given  to 
Gabriello  Chiabrera  ( 1552-16;37),  a 
celebrated  Italian  lyric  poet,  and  one 

I       of  the  best  modern  imitators  of  Pin- 

!       dar. 

I-thu'ri-el  (6).  [Heb.,  the  discovery  of 
God.]  In  Milton's  "Paradise  Lost," 
an  angel  commissioned  by  Gabriel  to 
search  through  Paradise,  in  company 
with  Zeplion,  to  tind  Satan,  who  had 
eluded  the  vigilance  of  the  angelic 
guard,  and  effected  an  entrance  into 
the  garden. 

Him  .  .  .  they  found, 
Squat  like  a  toad,  close  at  the  ear  of  Eve, 
Assaying  by  his  devilish  art  to  reach 
The  organs  of  her  fancy,  and  witli  them  forge 
Illusions  as  he  list,  phantasms  and  dreams; 
Or  if,  inspiring  venom,  he  might  taint 
The  animal  spirits  ;  .  .  .  thence  raise. 
At  least,  distempered,  discontented  thoughts, 
Vain  hopes,  vain  aims,  inordinate  desires. 
Blown   up   with  high  conceits   engendering 

pride. 
Him  thus  intent,  Ithvriel  with  his  spear 
Touched  lightly;  for  no  falsehood  can  endure 
Toiich  of  celestial  temjier,  but  returns, 
Of  force,  to  its  own  likeness;  up  he  starts, 
Discovered  and  surprised. 

Par.  Lost,  Bk.  IV. 

Such  spirits  have  nothing  to  do  with  the 
detecting  spear  of  Jthwiel.  JIacatday. 

He  who  argues  against  it  [Christianity],  or 
for  it,  in  this  manner,  may  be  regarded  as 
mistaking  its  nature:  the  Ithnrirl,  though  to 
our  eyes  he  wears  a  body  and  the  fiishion  of 
armor,  cannot  be  wounded  by  material  aid. 

CarJyle. 

I'van-h6e.  The  hero  of  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  the  same  name.     He 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  ceitain  words  refer,  see  pp  xiv-xxxii. 


IVA 


186 


ixr 


figures  as  Cedric  of  Rotherwood's  dis- 
inherited sou,  the  tavorite  of  King 
liichurd  I.,  and  the  lover  of  the  J^ady 
Kowena,  whom,  iu  the  end,  he  mar- 
ries. 

Ivanovitch,  Ivan  (e-van'  e-vfin'o- 
vitch).  An  imaginary  personage, 
who  is  the  embodiment  of  the  pecu- 
liarities of  the  Russian  people,  in  the 
same  way  as  John  Bull  represents 
the  English,  and  Jean  Crapaud  the 
French  character.  He  is  described  as 
a  lazy,  good-natured  person. 


Ivory  Gate.  According  to  Virgil,  a 
gate  of  sleep  in  the  under -world, 
wrought  of  shining  wiiite  ivory, 
through  which  the  infernal  gods  send 
up  false  dreams  to  earth.  See  HcuiN 
Gatk. 

Ix-i'6n.  [Gr.  'I^'o,^.]  {Gr.  c^- Rom. 
Myth.)  A  king  of  the  Lapithie 
in  Thessaly,  and  father  of  the  Cen- 
taurs. For  his  presumptuous  impiety 
he  was  sent  to  hell,  and  there  bound 
to  a  perpetually  revolving  fiery 
wheel. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  £jy;)lanationi, 


JAC 


187 


JAC 


J. 


Tack.  [An  Anglicized  form  of  the  Fr. 
Jacquts  (from  Lat.  Jacobus,  .liiines), 
the  coninionest  Christian  name  in 
France,  and  hence  a  contemptuous 
expression  for  a  peasant  or  common 
man;  introduced  in  tlie  same  sense 
into  EngUmd,  where  it  got  into  use 
as  a  diminutive  or  nickname  of  John, 
the  commonest  of  all  English  Chris- 
tian names.]  A  general  term  of  rid- 
icule or  contempt  for  a  saucy  or  a 
paltry  fellow,  or  for  one  who  puts 
himself  forward  in  some  office  or  em- 
ployment ;  hence,  any  mechanical 
contrivance  that  supplies  the  place 
of  an  attendant ;  as,  a  boot-j'ick.  Tay- 
lor, the  "  Water-Poet,"  inhis  "  Jack- 
a-lent,"  thus  enumerates  some  of  the 
persons  and  things  to  which  the  name 
has  been  applied :  — 

"  Of  Jcich-an-apC'^  I  list  not  to  indite, 
Nor  of  Jack  Daiv  my  goose's  quill  shall 

write: 
Of  Jack  of  Xeivhuri/  I  will  not  repeat, 
Nor  of  Jack-of-hoih-sides,  nor  of  Skip-Jack 

crente. 
To  praise  the  turnspit  Jack  my  Muse  is 

mum, 
Nor  of  the  entertainment  of  Jack  Drum 
I  '11   not  rehearse;   nor  of  Jack  Dog,  Jack 

Date. 
Jack  Fool,  or  Jack-a-datnhj,  I  relate; 
Nor  of  Hkick-Juck  at  <jarth  buttery  bars, 
Wliose  liquor  oftentimes  breeds  nousehold 

wars; 
Nor  Jack  of  Dover,  that  Grand-Jury  Jack, 
Hot  Jack  Sauce,  tlie  worst  knave  amongst 

the  pack." 

[Jack-a-lent,  a  stuffed  puppet,  dressed  in 
rags,  formerly  thrown  at  in  Lent.  Jack- 
an-a/)es,  orJack-a-napes,  a  uionkey,  a  buffoon, 
a  fot).  Jack  Dair,  the  daw,  a  common  Eng- 
lislibird.  Jack  of  XeWMrii.  See  below.  Jack- 
of-f>ot/i-sir/)^s,  (Hie  who  is  or  tries  to  be  neutral. 
Skip-Jack,  an  iipst  irt.  Jack  Drum.  See  Dkum, 
John.  Jack  /■''(v'^/,  a  foolish  person.  See  Fool, 
Tom.  J(/c/.-«-f/aw'i'//,  afop,  a  coxcomb.  Black- 
jack, a  leathern  jug  for  household  service. 
Jack  of  Dover,  a  fish,  the  sole.  Jack  Sauce, 
a  saucy  fellow.] 

Jack,  Colonel.  The  hero  of  De  Foe's 
novel  entitled  "  The  History  of  the 
Most  Remarkable  Life  and  P^xtraor- 
dinary  Adventures  of  the  truly  Hon. 
Colonel  Jacque,  vulgarly  called  Col- 
onel Jack ;  "  a  thief,  whose  portrait  is 
drawn  with  great  power.  He  goes  to 
Virginia,  and  passes  through  all  the 
gradations  of  colonial  life,  from  the 


state  of  a  senMnt  to  that  of  an  owner 
of  slaves  and  plantations. 

Jack,     Sixteen  -  string.      See    Six- 

TEEN-STKING   JaCK. 

Jack  and  Gill.  Characters  in  an 
ancient  and  popular  nursery  song. 
[Written  also  Jack  and  Jill.] 

4®=-  ''■Julienne  was  in  vogue  among 
the  Norman  families,  and  it  long  pre- 
vailed in  England  as  JuLyan:  and,  in- 
deed, it  became  so  common  as  Gillian^ 
that  Jill  [or  Gill]  was  the  regular  com- 
panion of  Jack,  as  still  appears  in  nurs- 
ery rhyme,  though  now  this  good  old 
form  has  entirely  disappeared,  except  in 
the  occasional  un-English  form  of  Juli- 
ana.''' Yonge. 

How  gallantly  he  extended,  not  his  arm, 
in  our  modern'  Jack-and-Jill  sort  of  fashion, 
but  his  right  hand,  to  my  mother. 

Sir  E.  Bulwer  Lytton. 

Jack  and  the  Bean-stalk.  A  le- 
gend of  the  nursery,  which,  like  Jack 
the  Giant-killer,  is  of  ancient,  and 
probably  of  Teutonic,  origin.  A  boy 
was  sent  by  his  mother  to  sell  a  cow, 
and  met  with  a  butcher,  to  whom  he 
parted  with  her  for  a  few  colored 
beans.  His  mother  was  very  angry, 
and  threw  them  away.  One  of  them 
fell  into  the  garden,  and  grew  so 
rapidly  in  one  night,  that  by  morning 
the  top  reached  the  heavens.  Jack 
ascended  the  vine,  and  came  to  an 
extensive  countiy.  After  divers  ad- 
ventures, a  fairy  met  him,  and  di- 
rected him  to  the  house  of  a  giant, 
from  whom  he  acquired  great  wealth. 
He  descended  the  vine,  and  as  the 
giant  attempted  to  fohow  him,  he 
seized  his  hatchet  and  cut  away  tlie 
vine,  when  the  giant  fell  and  was 
killed.  Jack  and  his  mother  hved 
afterward  in  comfort. 

Jack-in-the-Green.  A  character  — 
a  puppet — in  the  May-day  games  of 
England.  Dr.  Owen  Piigli  says  that 
Jack-in-the-Green,  on  May-day,  was 
once  a  pageant  representing  Melva, 
or  Melvas,  king  of  the  country  now 
called  Somersetshire,  disguised  in 
green  boughs,  as  he  lay  in  ambush 


«nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


JAC 


188 


JAC 


to  steal  Kinfc  Arthur's  wife,  as  she 
•went  out  hunting. 

Yesterday,  being  May -flay,  the  more  se- 
cluded  parts  of  the  metropolis  were  visited  by 
Jnck-in-the-Green,  and  the  usual  group  of 
grotesque  attendants.         London  Tiint:f,  1844. 

Jack  of  Newbury.  A  title  given  to 
John  WinchcDUib,  the  greatest  cloth- 
ier in  England,  in  the  time  of  Henry 
YIII.  He  kept  one  hundred  looms 
in  his  own  house  at  Newbur^^  and 

/  armed  and  clothed  at  his  own  ex- 
pense one  hundred  of  his  men,  to 
march  in  the  expedition  against  the 
Scots  at  Flodden  Field. 

Jsuck.  Pudding.     See  Hanswurst. 

Jackson,   Stonewall.      See   Stoxe- 

AVALL  JaCKSUX. 

Jack  the  Giant-killer.  The  name 
of  a  famous  hero  in  the  literature  of 
the  nurser}',  the  subject  of  one  of  the 
Teutonic  or  Indo-European  legends, 
which  have  become  nationalized  in 
England.  .lack  was  ''a  valiant  Cor- 
ni'ihman."  His  first  exploit  was  the 
killing  of  a  huge  giant  named  Cor- 
nioran,  which  he  accomplished,  when 
a  mere  child,  by  artfully  contriving 
to  make  him  fall  into  a  deep  pit,  and 
then  knocking  him  on  the  head  with 
a  pick-ax.  He  afterward  destroyed 
a  great  many  Welsh  monsters  of  the 
same  sort,  being  greatly  aided  in  his 
task  by  a  coat  of  invisibility,  a  cap 
of  knowledge,  an  irresistible  sword, 
and  shoes  of  incredible  swit\ness, — 
treasures  which  he  tricked  a  foolish 
giant  into  gi\ing  him.  For  his  inval- 
uable services  in  ridding  the  country 
of  such  undesirable  inhabitants,  he 
was  made  a  knight  of  Arthur's  Round 
Table,  married  to  a  duke's  daughter, 
and  presented  with  a  large  estate. 

iK^  "  Before  we  dismiss  the  giganti- 
cide.  we  must  remark  that  most  of  his 
giant<»  rest  upon  good  romance  author- 
ity :  or,  to  speak  more  correctly.  Jack's 
history  is  a  popular  and  degraded  version 
of  the  traditions  upon  which  our  ear- 
liest romances  are  founded."  Qii.  Rev. 
''  Not  only  single  words  come  to  attest  our 
common  ancestry  :  hut  many  a  nursery 
legend  or  terse  fable  crops  out  in  one 
country  after  another,  either  in  lofty  my- 
thology or  homely  household  tale.  For 
instance,  the  Persian  trick  of  Anieen  and 
the  Ghool  recurs  in  the  Scandinavian  visit 


of  Thor  to  Loki,  which  ha"?  come  doTn  to 
Germany  in  '  'llie  Brave  Little  Tailor.'  and 
to  us  in  •  .Jack  the  Giant-killer.' "'  Yonse. 
"  Our  '  .lack  the  (Jiant-kiljer"  .  .  .  is  clear* 
ly  the  last  modem  transmutation  of  the 
old  British  legem!,  told  in  Geoffrey  of  Mon- 
mouth, of  Corineus  the  Trojan,  the  com- 
panion of  the  Trojan  Brutus  when  he  first 
f^ettles  in  Britain ;  which  Corineus,  being 
a  very  strong  man.  and  particularly  good- 
humored,  is  siiti.>;fied  with  being  king  of 
Cornwall,  and  killing  out  the  aboriginal 
giants  there,  leaving  to  Brutus  all  the  rest 
of  the  island,  and  only  stipulating,  that, 
whenever  there  is  a  peculiarly  difficult 
giant  in  any  part  of  Brntus's  dominions, 
he  shall  be  sent  for  to  finish  the  fellow." 

Masson. 

While  he  [Junius]  walks,  like  Jack  the 
Giant-killer,  ni  a  coat  of  darkness,  he  may  do 
much  mischief  with  little  strength.     Johnson. 

They  say  she  [Meg  Merrilies]  .  .  .  can  gang 
any  jjate  she  likes,  Tike  Jack  the  Giant-kill  - 
in  the  ballant,  with  his  coat  o'  darkness  and 
his  shoon  o'  swiftness.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

He  made  up  for  this  turnspit  construction 
bj'  striding  to  such  .nn  extent,  that  you  would 
have  sworn  he  had  on  the  seven-leagued  boots 
of  Jack  the  Giant-killer :  and  so  high  did  he 
tread  on  parade,  that  his  soldiers  were  some- 
times alarmed  lest  he  should  trample  himself 
under  foot.  W.  Irving. 

Jack-with-tlie-Ijantern.  In  the 
superstition  of  former  times,  an  evil 
spirit  who  delighted  in  leading  be- 
nighted and  unAvar\'  travelers  astray 
from  their  path,  by  assuming  the 
appearance  of  a  light  like  that  of  a 
candle.  This  superstition,  as  is  well 
known,  had  its  origin  in  the  ir/nis- 
fntuus,  a  luminous  meteor  seen  in 
summer  nights  over  morasses,  grave- 
yards, and  other  spots  where  there  is 
a  great  accumulation  of  animal  or 
vegetable  substances,  and  caused,  as 
is  supposed,  by  the  spontaneous  ig- 
nition of  a  gaseous  compound  of 
phosphorus  and  hydrogen,  resulting 
from  their  decomposition.  [Written 
also  Jack  o'  Lantern.] 

Jacob's  Ladder.  A  ladder  seen  in  a 
vision  by  .Tacob,  the  .Jewish  patriarch. 
"  And  he  dreamed,  and  behold,  a  lad- 
der set  upon  the  earth,  and  the  top 
of  it  reached  to  heaven  :  and  behold, 
the  angels  of  God  a-^cending  and  de- 
scending on  it."    ( (ten.  xxviii.  12.) 

All  of  air  they  were,  allsoul  and  form,  so 
lovely,  like  mysterious  priestesses,  in  whose 
hand  was  the  invisible  .Tacoh's  Lnrlfler,  where- 
I         by  man  might  mount  into  very  heaven. 

Carlyle. 

or  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


JAF 


189 


JAR 


JarfiSr.      A   prominent  character  in 

Otway's  "  Venice  Preserved."  He 
joins  with  Pierre  and  others  in  a  con- 
spiracy a^^ainst  the  Venetian  senate, 
but  communicates  tlie  secret  to  his 
-wile,  Ik'lvidera,  and  she,  anxious  to 
pave  the  lite  of  her  fatlier,  a  senator, 
prevails  on  Jather  to  disclose  the 
plot.  This  he  does  upon  the  solemn 
assurance  of  pardon  for  himself  and 
friends ;  but,  on  discoverincc  the  per- 
fidy' of  the  senate,  who  condemn  the 
conspirators  to  death,  he  stabs  his 
friend  Pierre,  to  prevent  his  being 
broken  on  the  wheel,  and  then  stabs 
himself. 

"I  have  it!  "said  Bunce,  "I  have  itl"  and 
on  he  went  in  the  vein  oiJaffier. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Janot,  or  Jeannot  (zha'no').  A 
French  proper  name,  the  diminutive 
of  Jean  (John),  used  proverbially  to 
designate  a  simpleton,  a  quiddler, 
one  who  exercises  a  silly  ingenuity. 

"Without  being  a  Janot,  who  has  not  somc- 
times,  in  conversation,  committed  a  Janot- 
ism?  Ourry,  Irans. 

January  Searle.     See  Searle,  Jan- 

UAKY. 

Ja'nus.  (Rom.  3ryth.)  A  very  ancient 
Italian  deity  who  presided  over  the 
beginning  of  the  year,  and  of  each 
mouth  and  day,  and  over  the  com- 
mencement of  all  enterprises.  He 
Avas  originally  worshiped  as  the  sun- 
god.  He  was  represented  with  two 
faces,  one  on  the  front,  the  other  on 
the  back  of  his  head,  one  youthful, 
and  the  other  aged.  A  gateway  — 
often  erroneously  called  a  temple  — 
which  stood  close  by  the  Forum  in 
Rome,  and  had  two  doors  opposite 
to  each  other,  which,  in  time  of  war, 
were  always  open,  and  in  time  of 
peace  were  closed,  was  dedicated  to 
Janus  by  Numa.  The  myth  makes 
him  to  have  been  the  most  ancient 
king  of  Latium  or  Etruria,  where  he 
hospitably  received  Saturn  when  ex- 
pelled from  Crete  by  Jupiter. 

Jaques  (ja^kwes  w  jaks;  Fr.  pron. 
zhak).  A  lord  attending  upon  the 
exiled  duke,  in  Shakespeare's  "  As 
You  Like  It." 

4@=  "  .Taques  is  the  only  purely  con- 
templative character  in  Shakespeare.    He 


thinks,  and  dons  —  nothing.  His  whole 
occupation  is  to  amuse  his  mind  ;  and  he 
is  totally  regardless  of  liis  body  and  hia 
fortunes,  lie  is  the  prince  of  philosoph- 
ical idlers  ;  his  only  passion  is  tliought ; 
he  sets  no  value  on  any  thing  but  as  it 
serves  as  food  for  reflection.  He  can  •  suck 
melancholy  out  of  a  song,  as  a  weasel 
sucks  eggs  ;  '  the  motley  fool,  '  who  mor- 
als on  the  time.'  is  the  greatest  jirize  he 
meets  with  in  the  forest.  He  resents  Or- 
lando's passion  for  Rosalind  as  some  dis- 
paragement of  his  own  passion  lor  ab- 
stract truth  ;  and  leaves  the  duke,  as 
soon  as  he  is  restored  to  his  sovereignty, 
to  seek  his  brother,  who  has  quitted  it 
and  turned  hermit."  Htizlitt.  '"Jaques 
is  a  morose,  cynical,  querulous  old  fel- 
low, who  has  been  a  bad  j  oung  one.  He 
does  not  have  sad  moments,  but  '  sullen 
fits,'  as  the  duke  sajs.  His  melancholy 
is  morbid,  and  is  but  tlie  fruit  of  that 
utter  loss  of  mental  tone  which  results 
from  years  of  riot  and  debauchery.  He 
has  not  a  tender  spot  in  his  heart.  There 
is  not  a  gentle  act  attributed  to  him,  or 
a  generous  sentiment,  or  a  kind  word 
put  into  his  mouth  by  Shakespeai-e." 

R.  G.  White. 

Indcefl,  my  lord, 
The  melancholy  Jaques  grieves  at  that. 

Shdk. 

That  motley  clown  in  Ardcn  wood, 
Whom  humorous  Juqvcs  with  envy  viewed, 
Not  even  that  clown  could  amplify 
On  this  trite  text  so  long  as  I.       bir  W.  Scott. 

The  forest-wnlks  of  Arden's  fair  domain, 
Where  JaqiteA  fed  his  solitary  vein, 
No  pencil's  aid  as  yet  had  dared  supply, 
Seen  only  by  the  intellectual  eye. 

Charles  Lamb. 

Jarn'd^9e.  A  prominent  figure  in 
Dickens's  "  Bleak  House,"  distin- 
guished for  his  philanthropy,  easy 
good-nature,  and  good  sense,  and  for 
always  .'^aying,  "  The  wind  is  in  the 
east,"  when  any  thing  went  wrong 
with  him.  The  famous  suit  of  "  Jarn- 
dyce  rs.  Jarndyce,"  in  this  novel,  is  a 
satire  upon  the  Court  of  Chancery. 

Jar'vie,  Baillie  Nic'ol.  A  prominent 
and  admirable  character  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  "  Rob  Roy."  He  is 
a  magistrate  of  Glasgow,  and  a  kins- 
man of  Kob  Roy. 

4fg="  "Nothing  can  promise  less  origi- 
nality and  interest  than  the  portrait  of  a 
conceited,  petulant,  purse-proud  trades- 
man, full  of  his  own  and  his  father's  lo- 
cal dignity  and  importance,  and  of  mer- 
cantile and  Presbyterian  formalities,  and 
totally  without  tact  or  discretion,  who 
does  nothing  in  the  story  but  give  bail, 


nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


JAS 


190 


JER 


take  a  jfturney,  ami  marry  his  mnid.  But 
the  cnunigt",  tlie  f^cncrosity,  aiul  tin;  trank 
tiai vtc  nud  WHrui-hf:irt<'(lii»'Ss,  wliich  are 
united  to  these  un[ir<'iiii>iii>?  iii^rredients, 
and  above  all,  perliap-s,  tlie  '  llieland 
blude  of  him  tliat  warms  at  thae  daft 
tales  o*  venturesome  deeds  and  escapes, 
tho'  they  are  all  sinfu'  vanities,'  and 
makes  him  affirm  before  the  council  that 
llob  Hoy.  'sot  apart  what  he  had  dune 
again  tlie  law  o"  the  country,  and  tlie  her- 
ship  o"  the  Lennox  [/.  e.  the  laying  waste 
and  plundering  a  whole  county],  and 
the  misfortune  o'  some  folk  losing  life  by 
him.  wa-s  an  honester  man  than  stude  on 
any  o'  their  hauks,'  make  him  both  origi- 
nal and  interesting."  tientur. 

Ja'son  (-sn).  [Gr.  'lao-ojv.]  (Gr.  (f 
Jiom.  Mifth.)  A  tamous  Grecian  hero, 
kinfjf  ot'Thessaly,  leader  of  the  Ar- 
gonaiitic  expeditiDH,  and  a  sharer  in 
the  Calydonian  i)oar-hunt.  He  mar- 
ried Medea,  and  afterward  Creusa. 

Javert  (zha'vef',  64).  A  cliaracter  in 
Victor  Hugo's  "  Les  Mis^rables;" 
an  impersonation  of  the  inexorable- 
ness  of  law. 

Jeames.  An  old  English  form  of 
JanifS,  so  pronounced,  and  often  so 
spelt,  in  the  best  society,  till  the  end 
of  the  last  century,  when  it  became 
confined  to  the  lower  classes.  Re- 
cently, owing  to  the  popularity  of 
Thackeray's  "  Jeames's  Diary,"  it 
has  acquired  a  proverbial  currency 
as  a  designation  of  a  footman,  or  of 
a  flunky.  It  has  also  been  applied 
to  the  London  "  Morning  Post,"  the 
organ  of  the  "  haristocracy." 

A  poor  clergyman,  or  a  poor  military  man, 
may  have  no  more  than  three  hundred  a  year; 
but  I  heartily  venerate  his  endeavors  to  pre- 
serve his  girls  from  the  society  of  the  servants' 
hall,  and  the  delicate  attention  of  Jeames. 

A.  K.  H.  Bojid. 

Jean  d'Ep6e  (zho"  da'pS'  31,  62). 
[Fr.,  John  with  the  sword.]  A  sym- 
bolical name  given  to  Bonaparte  by 
his  partisans  in  France  who  conspired 
to  effect  his  restoration  to  power  after 
the  allied  sovereigns  had  banished 
him  to  Elba,  in  1814. 

Jean  Jacques  (zh(>  zhak,  30.  62). 
Christian  names  of  Rousseau  (1712- 
1778),  the  distinguished  French  phi- 
losopher, by  which  alone  he  is  often 
designated  by  English  writers,  partic- 
ularlv  those  of  the  last  century. 


Years  ago,  at  Venice,  poor  Jean  Jargtifg  wai 
Legation  SsecreUiry  to  linii  [Count  dc  lleiiiis], 
a£  some  readers  may  remember.  Car/t/le. 

That  is  alnnist  the  only  maxim   of  Jean 
Jacques  to  which  I  can  cheerfully  subscribe  1 
■Sir  E.  Jiulwer  Li/tton. 

Jeanjean  (zh6"'zh6n',  62).  A  popular 
name  in  France  for  a  conscript. 

Jean  Paul  ( "/■  zhong  p(~)wl ).  The  name 
under  which  the  eminent  German 
author,  .lean  Paul  Friedrich  Richter 
(1763-182,"j),  wrote,  and  by  which  he 
is  most  liamiliarly  known. 

Jeffrey's  Campaign.  A  name  given 
by  King  .lames  II.  to  the  judicial 
expedition  through  the  west  of  Fjig- 
land,  headed  by  Lord  Chief  Justice 
Jeffreys,  in  1685.  See  Bloouy  As- 
sizes. 

Jelly-by,  Mrs.  A  character  in  Dick- 
ens's nctvel  of"  Bleak  House;  "  a  type 
of  sham  philanthropy. 

Jenk'ins.  A  cant  name  for  any 
snobbish  pennv-a  liner.  It  was  first 
given,  in  "  Punch,"  to  a  writer  for 
the  London  "Morning  Post,"  —  said 
to  have  been  originally  a  footman, — 
whose  descriptions  of  persons  and 
events  in  fashionable  and  aristocratic 
society  betrayed  the  ingrained  servil- 
ity, priggishness,  and  vulgarity  of  his 
character. 

Jenk'ins,  Wiu'i-fred,  The  name 
of  Miss  Tabitha  Bramble's  maid,  in 
Smollett's  ''  Expedition  of  Humphry 
CHnker." 

Jenk'in-son,  Ephraim  (-sn).  A  swin- 
dlini,^  rascal  in  (ioldsmith's  "  Vicar  of 
Wakefield,"  who  wins  the  confidence 
of  Dr.  l*rimrose  by  liis  venerable  ap- 
pearance, his  great  apparent  devout- 
ness,  his  learned  talk  about  "  cos- 
mogony," and  his  loudly  professed 
admiration  of  the  good  Doctor's 
writings  on  the  subject  of  monogamy. 
See  Pkimhose,  The  Rev.  Doctok. 

Je-ron'i-mo,  o?'  Hi'er-on'y--mo. 
The  principal  character  in  an  tdd 
play  by  Thomas  Kyd,  entitled  "  The 
Spanish  Tragedy;"  —  used  in  the 
phrase,  "  Go  by.  Jeronimo,"  an  ex- 
pression made  almost  proverbial  by 
the  ridicule  of  contemporary  writers. 
In  the  original,  these  words  are 
spoken  by  Hieronymo,  or  Jeronimo, 


a^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


JES 


191 


JEZ 


to  himself,  on  finding  his  application 
to  tlie  kin<;  improper  at  the  moment. 
Hence,  probably,  tlie  word  f/o-by,  sig- 
nifying a  putting  or  thrusting  aside 
without  notice. 

Jes'st-mf  Bride.  A  by-name  given 
to  Miss  Mary  Ilorneck,  afterward 
JMrs.  Gwyn.  She  was  a  contempo- 
rary and  friend  of  Goldsmitli,  vvho 
is  supposed  to  have  been  in  love  with 
her. 

Jes'si-ca.  The  beautiful  daughter  of 
Shylock,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Mer- 
chant of  Venice."  She  is  beloved  by 
Lorenzo. 

/Kg=  "Jessica,   though  properly  kept 
subordinate,  is  certainly  — 
'A  most  beautiful  pagan,  a  most  sweet  Jew.' 

She  cannot  be  called  a  sketch  ;  or,  if  a 
sketch,  she  is  like  one  of  those  dashed  off 
ill  glowing  colors  from  the  rainbow  palette 
of  a  Kubens  ;  she  lias  a  rich  tint  of  Ori- 
entalism shed  over  her,  worthy  of  lier 
Eastern  origin.''  3Irs.  Jameson. 

Jew,  The  "Wandering.  [Lat.  Judceus 
non  Mortnlh,  the  undying  Jew;  Ger. 
Dev  Ewhjt  Jude^  Fr.  Le  Juif 
Arrant.]  An  imaginary  personage, 
who  owes  his  existence  to  a  legend 
connected  with  the  history  of  Christ's 
passion.  As  the  Saviour  was  on  the 
way  to  the  place  of  execution,  over- 
come with  the  weight  of  the  cross,  he 
wished  to  rest  on  a  stone  before  the 
house  of  a  .Tew,  whom  the  story  calls 
Aha.mtnis.,  who  drove  him  away  with 
curses.  .Jesus  cabnly  replied,  "  Thou 
shalt  wander  on  the  earth  till  I  re- 
turn." The  astonis^hed  Jew  did  not 
come  to  himself  till  the  crowd  had 
passed,  and  the  streets  were  empty. 
JJriven  by  fear  and  remorse,  he  has 
since  Avandered,  according  to  the 
command  of  the  Lord,  from  place  to 
place,  and  has  never  yet  been  able 
to  find  a  grave.  According  to  another 
account,  he  was  Pontius  Pilate's 
porter,  and  his  original  name  was 
Cartaphilns.  Soon  after  the  Saviour's 
crucifixion,  he  became  converted,  and 
took  the  name  ofJoscph.  At  the  end 
of  every  hundred  years,  he  falls  into 
a  fit  or  trance,  upon  which,  when  he 
rt^covers,  he  returns  to  the  same  state 
of  youth  he  was  in  when  our  Saviour 
suffered,  being  about  thirty  years  of 


age.  He  remembers  all  the  circum- 
stances of  the  death  and  resurrection 
of  Christ ;  the  saints  tliat  arose  with 
him;  the  composing  of  tlie  Apostles' 
Creed;  and  the  preaching  and  dis- 
])ersi()ns  of  the  apostles  themselves. 
In  the  Iburteenth  century,  he  was 
called  Isfutc  Ldktdion.^  or  Lnquedein; 
but  the  chronicles  of  that  time  make 
no  mention  of  these  periodical  alter- 
nations of  youth  and  age,  though  they 
still  attribute  to  him  perpetual  life. 

j6E;g=-  Ivoger  of  Wendover.  a  monk  of  St. 
Albans  (d.  1237),  and  Matthew  Paris  (d. 
1259),  a  Benedictine  monk  of  the  Congre- 
gation of  Cluguy,  and  likewise  of  the 
uiouastery  of  St.  Albatis,  give  us4he  old- 
est traditions  (.f  the  Wandering  Jew.  Ac- 
cording to  Menzel  ('•  History  of  German 
Poetry  "),  the  whole  tradition  is  but  an 
allegory,  the  W^amiering  Jew  symbolizing 
lieatheuism.  M.  Lacroix  suggests  that  it 
represents  the  Hebrew  race  dispersed  and 
wandering  throughout  the  earth,  but  not 
destroyed.  In  Germany,  the  tradition  of 
the  Wandering  Jew  became  connected 
with  John  Bultadceus,  a  real  person.  The 
story  of  this  .lew  was  jirinted  in  1602,  and 
frequently  afterward.  He  is  s;iid  to  have 
been  seen  at  Antwerp  in  the  thirteenth 
century,  again  in  the  fifteenth,  and  a 
third  time  in  the  sixteenth,  with  every 
appearance  of  age  and  decrepitude.  His 
last  recorded  apparition  was  at  Brussels, 
in  April,  1774.  Southey,in  his  poem  of 
"The  Curse  of  Kehama,"  and  Croly,  in 
his  romance  entitled  "  Salathiel,"  trnce 
the  course  of  the  Wandering  Jew,  but  in 
violation  of  the  whole  legend  ;  and  Eugene 
Sue  adopted  the  name  as  the  title  of  one 
of  his  most  popular  and  most  immoral 
novels  ("Le  .iuif  Errant"),  though  the 
Jew  scarcely  figures  at  all  in  the  work. 

^^^  "  Ahasuerus  is  the  antitype  of 
Faust.  He  shuns  life,  and  seeks  deliver- 
ance from  its  pains,  while  Faust  seeks  to 
eternize  the  moment."        Grdsse,  Trans. 

Coppct,  ...  in  short,  trud.^ed  and  hurried 
hither  and  thithe-,  inconstant  as  an  ignis- 
fatuus,  and  restless  as  the  Wandering  Jew. 

Carlyle. 

Je"wish.  Pla'to.  A  title  bestowed  upon 
Philo  .ludicus,  the  Alexandrian  Jew 
and  Platonist,  who  flourished  in  the 
first  century  of  the  Christian  era. 

Jewkes,  Mrs.  (juks).  A  hateful  char- 
acter in  liichardson's  "  Pamela." 

Jez'e-bel.  The  wicked  wife  of  Ahab, 
an  infamous  king  of  Israel.  How 
she  came  to  her  end  may  be  seen  in 


fcad  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xsJuL 


JIN 


192 


JOH 


2  Kings  ix.  30-37.  The  name  is 
proverbially  used  to  designate  a 
showily  ilrespcd  woman  otlrail  morals 
or  suspected  respectability.  It  has 
been  applied  in  this  sense  from  the 
time  of  the  Puritans. 

0  Piiilosophe-Scntiinentalism,  what  hast 
thou  to  do  with  peace  when  thj'  mother's 
noine  is  Jezebel  f  Carbjlc. 

Jingle,  Mr.  Alfred.  An  impudent, 
swindlin.ii;  stroller,  in  Dickens's 
''  Pickwick  Papers."  He  is  repre- 
sented as  never  speaking  a  connected 
sentence,  but  stringing  together  mere 
disjointed  phrases,  generally  without 
verbs. 

Jinnestan.     See  Dji.xnestax. 

J.  tT.  Initials  used,  particularly  by 
writers  of  the  last  centur\',  to  desig- 
nate Kousseau,  the  celebrated  author 
of  the  "  Confessions,"  Avhose  Chris- 
tian names  were  Jean  Jacques,  or 
John  James. 

J5an.  The  name  sometimes  given  to 
the  wife  of  Punch.  She  is  common- 
ly called  Judi). 

1  confess,  that,  were  it  safe  to  cherish  such 
dreams  at  all,  I  sliould  more  enjoy  the  thoujrlit 
of  remaining  behind  the  curtain  unseen,  hhc 
the  ingenious  manager  of  Punch  and  his  wife 
Joar),  and  enjoying  the  astonislimcnt  and 
conjectures  of  my  audience.         Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Joan,  Pope.  A  supposed  individual 
of  the  female  sex,  who  is  placed  by 
several  chroniclers  in  the  series  of 
popes  between  Leo  IV.  and  Benedict 
III.,  about  853-855,  under  the  name 
of  Juhn.  The  subject  of  this  scan- 
dalous stor}^  is  said  to  have  been  a 
young  Avoman  of  English  parentage, 
educated  at  Cologne,  who  left  her 
home  in  man's  disguise,  Avith  her 
lover,  a  very  learned  man,  and  went 
to  Athens,  where  she  made  great 
progress  in  profane  law;  afterward 
she  went  to  Home,  where  she  became 
equally  proficient  in  sacred  learning, 
for  which  her  reputation  became  so 
great,  that,  at  the  death  of  Leo,  she 
was  unanimously  elected  as  his  suc- 
cessor, under  the  general  belief  of  her 
male  sex.  She,  however,  became 
pregnant,  and  one  day,  as  she  was 
proceeding  to  the  I.ateran  Basilica, 
she  was  seized  with  the  pains  of 
child-labor,  on  the  road  between  the 
Colosseum    and   the   church   of    St. 


Clement :  and  there  she  died,  and  was 
buried  without  any  honors,  after  a 
pontilicate  of  two  years,  hve  months, 
and  four  days. 

j^^  The  first  to  mention  this  delecta- 
ble piece  of  scandal  was  Marianus  Scotus, 
a  monk  of  the  abbey  of  Fuhla,  who  died 
at  Maiuz  in  1U8(3 :  i)ut  thcaiitlienticity  of 
the  MS.  attributed  to  him  is  very  doubt- 
ful. The  story  is  giveu  more  circumstan- 
tially by  Martinus  I'olonus,  a  Ci-'tercian 
monk,  and  confessor  to  Gregory  X.  It  is 
also  mentioned  by  Stephen  de  Bourbon, 
who  wrote  about  1225.  "  Until  the  Ref- 
ormation." siys  Gibbon,  '-the  t-ile  was 
repeated  .-ind  believed  without  offense." 
The  learned  Calvinist  divine.  David  Blon- 
del.  demonstrated  its  historical  <rround- 
lessness  ;  yc^t  atteu)pts  have  occasionally 
been  made,  siiue  his  time,  to  maintain 
the  truth  of  the  tradition.  Panviniua 
and  other  writers  find  the  orifrin  of  the 
fable  in  the  effeminacy  or  licentious- 
ness of  Pope  John  XII..  who  was  killed 
in  964,  while  prosecuting  an  unlawful 
intrigue.  There  is  an  ancient  miracle- 
play  upon  this  subject,  in  German,  en- 
titled "  The  Canonization  of  Pope  Joan, 
1480,"  which  was  widely  diffu.'^ed,  .ind 
did  much  to  shake  the  popular  rever- 
ence for  the  Papal  See. 

Jo-Cas'ta.        [Gr.    'loKao-rrj.]        ( Or.    (f 

Bum .  Mjiih .)  The  mother  of  CEdipus , 
whom  she  married  unknowingh",  and 
to  whom  she  bore  Eteocles  and  I'oly  • 
nices. 

Jockey  of  ITorfolk.  A  sobriquet  con- 
ferred \\\)0\\  Sir  John,  son  of  Sir  Rob- 
ert Howard,  a  close  adherent  to  the 
house  of  York,  and  remarkable  alike 
for  the  magnillcence  of  his  estate 
and  for  the  high  oiHces  which  ho 
held.  In  1485,  he  accompanied  his 
master,  Ilichard  III.,  to  the  licld  of 
Bosworth,  and,  notwithstanding  the 
celebrated  and  friendly  warning, 

'\7ockcif  o^ Xor'oU\  bo  not  too  bold, 
For  I-iickon,  thy  muster,  is  bought  and  sold," 

which  was  posted  on  bis  tent  during 
the  night  betbre  the  battle,  he  entered 
into  the  fight,  and  paid  the  inmalty  of 
his  iidelity  with  his  life,  being  one  of 
the  slain  on  that  Avell-contested  day. 

Jolin.  1.  A  bastard  brother  of  Don 
Pedro,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Much  Ado 
about  Nothing." 

2.  A  Franciscan  friar,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Ilomeo  and  Jidiet." 


Beg"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accouipanying  ExplauationB, 


JOII 


193 


JOU 


Shuk. 


See    Company, 


John,  Friar.     See  Fkiau  John. 

John-a-dreains.  A  nanieapparendy 
coined  to  suit  a  dreaminj;,  stupid 
character,  a  "  dreaming  John,"  as  it 
were. 

Yet  I, 

A  (lull  and  muddy-mettled  rascal,  peak, 
jAkiiJo/iii.-a-/rea  lis,  uupreguantof'iny  cause. 
And  can  say  nothiag.  >.'<.../. 

John    Company. 
John. 

Johnny  Rebs.  A  sobriquet  given  by 
the  soldiers  of  the  United  States 
army,  in  the  time  of  the  late  Rebel- 
lion, to  the  "Confederate"  soldiers. 
It  is  said  to  have  originated  in  a 
taunting  remark  addressed  to  a  rebel 
picket,  to  the  effect  that  the  Southern 
States  relied  on  "John  Bull  "  to  help 
them  gain  their  independence,  and 
that  the  picket  himself  was  no  better 
than  a  "  John  Bull;"  an  accusation 
which  he  indignantly  denied,  saying 
that  he  would  "  as  soon  be  called  a 
'  nigger'  as  a  'Johnny  Bull.'  " 

Jonathan.  A  son  of  Saul,  king  of 
Israel,  famous  for  his  tender  friend- 
ship —  '■  passing  the  love  of  woman  " 
—  for  David,  wiiom  Saul  hated  and 
persecuted.  "  The  soul  of  Jonathan 
was  knit  with  the  soul  of  David,  and 
Jonathan  loved  him  as  his  own  soul." 
(1  S'liii.  xviii.  1.) 

Jonathan,  Brother.  See  Brother 
Jonathan. 

Jones,  Da'vy.  A  familiar  name 
among  sailors  for  Death,  formerly  for 
the  evil  spirit  who  was  supposed  to 
preside  over  the  demons  of  the  sea. 
He  was  thought  to  be  in  all  storms, 
and  was  sometimes  seen  of  gigantic 
height,  showing  three  rows  of  sharp 
teeth  in  his  enormous  mouth,  open- 
ing great  frightful  eyes,  and  nostrils 
which  emitted  blue  flames.  The 
ocean  is  still  termed  by  sailors,  Davy 
Joneses  Locker. 

The  heads  of  Opposition,  the  Pitts  and 
others  of  that  country  [England]  .  .  .  wish 
dear  Hanover  s  ife  enough  (safe  in  Dnrtf 
Jones's  locker,  if  that  would  do);  but  are  tired 
of  subsidizing,  and  fighting,  and  tumulting 
all  the  world  over,  for  that  high  end.    Carlyle. 

Jones,  Tom.  The  hero  of  Fielding's 
novel  entitled  "  The  History  of  Tom 
Jones,  a  Foundling;  "  represented  as 
a  model  of  generosity,  openness,  and 


manly  spirit,  mingled  with  thought- 
less dissipation. 

/J®^  "  Our  immortal  Fielding  was  of 
the  younger  braiieli  ot  the  EarN  of  Den- 
bigh, wlio  drew  tiieir  origin  froiri  the 
Counts  of  Ilapsburg.  .  .  .  Far  ditferent 
have  b(!en  tlie  fortuues  of  the  English  and 
German  divisions  of  the  family.  .  .  .  Tlie 
successors  of  Charles  V.  may  disdain  their 
brethren  of  England  ;  but  tlie  romance 
of  '  Tom  Jones,'  that  exquisite  picture  of 
human  manners,  will  outlive  the  palace 
of  the  Escurial  and  the  imperial  eagle  of 
Austria."  Gibbon. 

&^  ''  I  cannot  say  that  I  think  Mr. 
Jones  a  virtuous  character  ;  Icitnnot  say 
but  that  I  think  Fielding's  evident  liking 
and  admiration  for  Mr.  Jones  show  that 
the  great  humorists  moral  sense  was 
blunted  by  his  life,  and  that  iiere  in  art 
and  etiiics  there  is  a  great  error.  ...  A 
hero  with  a  flawed  reputation,  a  hero 
sponging  for  a  guinea,  a  hero  who  cannot 
pay  his  landlady,  and  is  obliged  to  let  his 
honor  out  to  hire,  is  absurd,  and  his 
claim  to  heroic  rank  untenable." 

Thackeray. 

Jormungand  (ycif'mcKm-gand').  [Old 
Norse,  Jdn/mn,  great,  universal,  and 
jf/a?j(/r,  serpent.]  {iScand.  Mytli.)  A 
fearful  serpent,  the  offspring  of  Loki, 
hurled  down  by  the  gods  into  the 
ocean  that  surrounds  Midgard,  where 
he  is  to  remain  until  Ragnarik.  He 
is  represented  by  the  poets  as  hold- 
ing his  tail  in  his  mouth. 

Josse,  M.  (mos'e-J)'  zhos).  A  jeweler 
in  Moliere's  comedy, "  L'Amour  M^- 
decin,"  whose  advice  to  a  friend  who 
consults  him  is  that  of  a  man  who 
wishes  to  dispose  of  his  merchandise. 
The  expression,  "  Vims  etts  arfevre^ 
M.  Jnssf,'"  You  are  a  jeweler,  Mr. 
Josse,  is  proverbially  applied,  in 
France,  to  any  one  who  seeks  to  ad^ 
vance  his  own  interests  at  the  ex, 
pense  of  another. 

Jotunheim  (y(i't()on-hIm')-  {Scand. 
Myth.)  The  abode  of  the  JiJtun,  or 
Giants.     See  Giants,  2. 

Jourdain,  M.  (mos''e-<i'  zhoof'da"', 
fi2).  The  hero  of  Moliere's  comedy, 
"  Le  Bourgeois  (ientilhomme ;  "  repre- 
sented as  an  elderly  tradesman,  who, 
having  suddenly  acquired  immense 
riches,  becomes  desirous  to  emulate 
such  as  have  been  educated  in  the 
front  ranks  of  society,  in  those  accom- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 
13 


JOU 


194 


JUL 


plishments,  whether  mental  or  per- 
sonal, which  cannot  be  gracefully  ac- 
quired alter  the  early  jiart  ot  life  is 
past. 

The  Arabs,  under  great  emotional  excite- 
ment, j;ive  their  language  a  rt-cognizable  me- 
ter, and  talk  poetrv  as  M.  Jourdain  talked 
prose  [i.  e.,  without  knowing  itj.  Lewes. 

Journ^e  des  Dupes  (zhoof'na'^  di 
du]),  3i).     See  Day  ok  Dli'Ks. 

Jove.     See  Ji  riTEU. 

Joyeuse,  La  (la  zhwo'yoz',  43).  [Lat. 
Gdiuiiosa.]  The  sword  of  Charle- 
magne;—  so  called  in  the  romances 
of  chivalrA\  It  bore  the  inscription, 
"  iJecem  jjiitcepfvnim custos  C'arolus.'" 

Joyeuse  Garde,  La  (la  zhwo'yoz' 
gafd).  The  residence  of  the  famous 
Lancelot  du  Lac,  commonly  said  to 
have  been  at  Berwick-upon-Tweed. 
He  having  successfidly  defended  the 
honor  of  Queen  Guinever  against  Sir 
jVIadur  (who  had  accused  her  of  pois- 
oning his  brother).  King  Arthur,  in 
gratitude  to  her  champion,  gave  him 
the  castle  which  had  been  the  scene 
of  the  queen's  vindication,  and  named 
it  "  La. Joyeuse  Garde"  in  memory  of 
the  happy  event.  See  Madoh,  Siij. 
[Written  also  Joyous  Gard  and 
Garde    Joy  esse.] 

The  Garrle  Jnyesfr,  pmid  the  tnle. 
High  reari'd  its  glittering  head; 

AndAvalon's  enehanted  vale 
In  !5il  its  wonde.-s  spread.      Sir  W.  Scott. 

Juan,  Don.     See  Don  Juan. 
Judge  Lynch.     See  Lynch,  Judge. 

Judicious  Hooker,  The.  See  Hook- 
KK,  The  Judicious. 

Judith.     The  heroine  of  a  well-known 
book  of  the  same  name  in  the  Apoc- 
rA'pha:  a  beautiful  .Jewess  of  Bethu- 
lia,  who,  to   save   her  native   toAvn,  \ 
undercook  to  assassinate  Holofemes,  j 
general    of  Nebuchadnezzar,  putting  | 
both  Iitr  life  and  her  chastity  in  jeop-  ' 
ardy  by  venturing  alone  into  his  tent  j 
for  this    purpose.      But    she   accom- 
plished her  ol)jeot,  and  escaped  with  , 
the  head  of  Holofernes  to  Bethulia;  i 
whereupon  her  fellow-townsmen,  in-  j 
spired    with   a   sudden    enthusiasm,  | 
rushed    out    upon   the   enemy,   and 
completely     defeated     them.       The 
story,  if  not   altogether  tictitious.  as 
many  think  it  to  be,  is  a  legend 


founded   upon  some  fact  not  men- 
tioned by  any  historian. 

Ju'dy  (6).  The  wife  of  Punch,  in  the 
modern  puppet-show  of  *'  Punch  and 
Judy."     See  Punch. 

Jug'ger-naut.  [Sansk.  Jngannatha, 
lord  "of  the  world.]  [Ilimlu  .Myth.) 
A  name  of  Vislinu,  of  whom  an  idol 
is  kept  in  a  temple  at  .laggeniaut,  or 
Jaggernaut  Pun,  a  town  m  Orissa. 
This  idol  is  one  of  the  chief  objects 
of  pilgrimage  in  Lidia,  and  has  ac- 
quired great  notoriety  in  consequence 
of  the  fanatical  practice,  formerly 
very  prevalent  among  Hindu  believ- 
ers, of  throwing  themselves  under 
the  wheels  of  the  lofty  chariot  —  sixty 
feet  high  —  in  which  it  is  carried  in 
procession,  in  the  hope  of  attaining 
eternal  bliss  by  such  a  sacritice  of 
their  lives.  [Written  also  J  a  g  g  e  r- 
nau  t.] 

Julia.  The  name  of  a  lady  beloved 
by  Proteus,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Two 
Gentlemen  of  Verona.'' 

Julie  (zhii'le',  34).  The  heroine  of 
iSIoliere's  comedy,  "Monsieur  de 
Pourceaugnac." 

Juli-et  (()).  1.  A  lady,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Measure  for  Measure,"  be- 
loved by  Claudio. 

2.  The  heroine  of  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  ''Romeo  and  Juliet." 

STir'  "  .Tnliet  is  a  child  whose  intoxica- 
tion in  loviuj;  and  being  loved  whirls  away 
the  little  reason  she  may  have  possessed. 
It  is  impossible,  in  my  opinion,  to  place 
her  among  the  great  female  chanicters  of 
Shakespeare's  creation."  Ha'lavi.  ''  All 
Shakespeare's  women,  being  essentially 
women,  either  love,  or  have  loved,  or  are 
capable  of  loving  :  but  .luliet  is  love  it- 
self. The  pnspion  is  her  stat<>  of  being, 
.Tnd  out  of  it  she  has  no  existence.  It  is 
the  soul  within  her  soul ;  the  pn'se  within 
her  lie:irt :  the  life-blood  along  her  veins, 
'  blending  with  evprv  atom  of  her  frame.' 
The  love  that  is  so  chaste  and  dignified  in 
Portia  :  so  airv-delicat«  and  fearless  in 
Miranda ;  so  sweetly  ronfiding  in  Per- 
dita :  so  playfullv  fond  in  Kosalind  :  so 
constant  in  Imogen  :  so  devoted  in  T)es- 
deniom  ;  so  fervent  in  Helen  :  so  tender 
in  Viola,  —  is  each  and  all  of  the?e  in  .lu- 
liet." Mrs.  Jameson. 

The  hypert)ole  of  Juliet  seemed  to  be  veri- 
fied withrespfot  to  them.  "  Upon  their  hi-ows 
shame  was  ashamed  to  sit."  Mncavday. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanationi, 


JUN 


195 


JUT 


June,  Jennie.  A  pseudonym  of  Mrs. 
J.  C.  Ci'uly,  an  American  authoress 
of  the  present  day. 

Ju'ni-us  {ur  jun'yus,  6).  A  celebrat- 
ed pseudonym,  under  which  a  series 
of  renuiikable  political  letters  were 
published  at  intervals  from  17GJ  to 
1772,  in  the  "'Public  Advertiser," 
then  the  most  popular  newspaper  in 
Great  Britain. 

4®^  In  these  letters,  the  writer  who 
couceiiled  himself  luider  this  signature 
attacked  all  the  public  characters  of  the 
day  counected  with  the  govermneat,  and 
did  not  spare  even  royalty  itself.  Every 
effort  that  could  be  devised  b>  the  gov- 
ernment, or  prompted  by  private  indig- 
nation, was  made  to  discover  their  au- 
thor, but  in  vaiu.  ''  It  is  not  in  the  na- 
ture of  things,"  he  writes  to  his  publisher, 
"  that  you  or  any  body  else  should  know 
me  unless  I  make  myself  known  :  all  arts, 
or  inquiries,  or  rewards,  would  be  inef- 
fectual."' In  another  place  he  remarks, 
''  I  am  the  sole  depositary  of  my  secret, 
and  it  shall  die  with  me."  Many  con- 
jectures, however,  have  been  started  on 
the  subject  of  this  great  puzzle;  and 
Burke,  William  Gerard  Hamilton  (com- 
monly called  "  Single  -  speech  Hamil- 
ton"), John  Wilkes,  Lord  Chatham,  Mr. 
Dunning  (afterward  Lord  Ashburton), 
Lord  George  Sackville  (afterward  Lord 
Germain),  Serjeant  Adair,  the  Ilev.  J.  Ko- 
senhagen,  John  Koberts,  Charles  Lloyd, 
Samuel  Dyer.  General  Charles  Lee,  Hugh 
Boyd,  Colonel  Isaac  Barre,  Sir  Philip  Fran- 
cis, and  many  other  eminent  names,  have 
all  been  identified  by  different  inquirers 
with  Junius.  The  evidence  which  has 
heen  presented  to  prove  that  Sir  Philip 
Francis  was  the  author  of  these  memo- 
rable philippics,  though  entirely  circum- 
stantial, is  very  strong.  Macaulav  thinks 
it  sufficient  "to  support  .a  verdict  in  a 
civil,  nay,  in  a  criminal  proceeding."  The 
inquirer  will  do  well  to  consult  the  articles 
that  have  ai)peared  on  the  subject  ot  "Ju- 
nius "  in  "  Notes  and  Queries,"  and  in  the 
"  Atheiiasura  "  since  184S.  See  also  Jinrs 
in  Allibone's  "  Dictionary  of  Authors  "  and 
in  Bohn's  edition  of  Lowndes's  "Bibli- 
ographer's Manual." 

This  arch  intnirner,  whom,  to  use  nn  ex- 
pression of  JiniiH.i,  t'-enrbcry  itself  could  not 
trust,  was  nt  one  moment  iiearlv  C'lfrht  in 
his  own  toils.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Ju'no.  (Or.  (f  Rnm.  MyfJ,.)  The 
dauj^hter  of  Saturn  and  Ops,  the  sis- 
ter and  wife  of  Jupiter,  the  queen  of 
heaven,  and  the  jjnardian  deity  of 
women,  especially  married  women. 


He,  in  delight  .  .  . 
Smiled  with  superior  love;  as  Jupiter 
Oil  Jinio  smiles,  when  he  impregns  the  cloud* 
That  shed  May  flowers.  Alitton. 

Junto.  (/•;«//.  //I'M.)  A  small  knot  of 
distinguished  men  in  the  time  of  Wil- 
liam 111.  ( Iti'JU),  who,  under  tills  name, 
exercised  over  the  \\'hi<,^  body,  by 
their  coimsel  duriiii,^  twenty  tr()iil)led 
years,  an  authority  o\  which,  says  Ma- 
caiday,  there  is  perhap--  no  parallel  in 
liistory,  ancient  or  nuideii;.  lu.ssell, 
Lord-keei>er  Vomers,  jmd  Charles 
INlontague  were  prominent  members 
of  it. 

Ju'pi-ter.  [Lat.,  a  contraction  of  Dio- 
ris  or  Dies  ( =  diriim,  heaven )  pater' ; 
i.  c,  the  lather  of  heaven,  or  heavenly 
father.]  (6'/-.  cj-  Jivm.  Myth.)  A 
son  of  Saturn  and  Ops,  brother  and 
husband  of  Juno,  the  father  and 
king  of  gods  and  men,  and  the  su- 
jn-eme  ruler  of  the  imiverse  As  the 
god  of  heaven,  he  had  all  power  of 
the  phenomena  of  the  skies;  hence 
his  numerous  epithets,  such  as  Plu~ 
riiis  (the  rain -giver),  Tvnans  (the 
thunderer),  Fuhiiivator  (the  light- 
ning-wielder),  and  the  like.  [Called 
also  J  We  and  Zius.] 

Ju'pi-t6r  Carlyle.  A  sobriquet  giv- 
en to  the  Kev.  Alexander  Carlyle 
(1722-1805),  minister  of  Inveresk^  in 
Scotland,  remarkable  tor  his  magnif- 
icent head,  which  was  considered 
worthy  of  being  a  model  lor  a  Jupi- 
ter Tonans. 

j8@=-  "•  The  grandest  demigod  T  ever  saw 
was  Dr.  Carl.\  le.  minister  of  Musselburgh, 
commonly  called  Jupiter  Carlyle,  for  hav- 
ing sat  more  than  once  for  the  king  of 
gods  and  men  to  Gavin  Hamilton." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Ju'pi-ter  Sca'pin.  A  nickname  given 
by  the  Abb(^  do  Pradt  to  Napoleon 
Bonaparte,  on  account  of  the  mix- 
ture in  his  character  of  greatness  and 
goodness  with  irregularity  of  imag- 
ination and  a  disposition  to  artitice 
which  sometimes,  as  in  his  Egyptian 
campaign,  led  to  conduct  half  impi- 
ous, half  childish.     See  Scapin. 

Ju-tur'na.  The  sister  of  King  Tur- 
nus;  changed  into  a  fountain  of  the 
same  name,  the  waters  of  which  were 
used  in  the  sacrifices  of  Vesta.     See 

TURXUS. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


KAF 


196 


KEY 


K. 


Kaf,  Mount.     See  Mount  Cap. 

Kail'yil.  The  heroine  of  Southey's 
pijeiu,  "  The  Curse  of  Kehania." 

Kama  (ka'ma),  or  Kamadeva  (ka- 
ma-dtVva).  {Hiiula  Myth.)  Tliegod 
of  love.  He  is  a  favorite  theme  of 
description  and  allusion  in  Sanskrit 
poetry.  His  power  is  so  mucli  ex- 
alted'that  even  the  god  Brahma  is 
said  to  succumb  to  it.  He  is  de- 
scribed or  represented  as  riding  on  a 
parrot  or  a  sparrow,  —  the  symbol  of 
voluptuousness,  —  and  holding  in  his 
hands  a  bow  of  sugar-cane  strung 
"with  bees,  besides  live  arrows,  each 
tipped  with  the  bloom  of  a  flower 
supposed  to  conquer  one  of  the  senses. 

Katherine.  A  lady  attending  on 
the  princess  of  France,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Love's  Labor 's  Lost." 

Kay,  Sir.  A  foster-brother  of  King 
Arthur,  and  a  rude  and  boastful 
knight  of  the  Kound  Table.  He  Avas 
the  butt  of  Arthur's  court.  He  is 
generally  made  by  the  romancers  the 
lirst  to  attempt  an  offered  adventure, 
in  Avhich  he  never  succeeds,  and  his 
failure  in  which  acts  as  a  foil  to  the 
brilliant  achievement  of  some  more 
fortunate  and  deserving,  and  less 
boastful,  knight.  [Written  also 
Q  u  e  u  X.] 

Ke-ha'ma.  A  Hindu  rajah,  who  ob- 
tains and  sports  with  supernatural 
power.  His  adventures  are  related 
in  Southey's  poem  entitled  "  The 
Curse  of  Keliama." 

Keith,  ^Wise  ^Wife  of.  See  Wise 
Wife  of  Keith. 

Kerap'fer-hau'sen  (-zn).  A  name  as- 
sumed by  Koliert  Poarce  Gillies,  a  con- 
tributor to  "  Blackwood's  INIagazine," 
and  one  of  the  interlocutors  in  the 
"  Noctes  Ainbrosianas  "  of  that  Avork. 

Ken'na-quhair  (-kwar).  [Scot., 
l)on"t-know-where.  Comp.  Ger. 
\Vnssnichtim.~\  A  Scottish  name 
for  any  imaginary  locality. 


It  would  bo  a  misapprehension  to  suppose, 
because  Melrose  may  in  genenil  paiss  for 
Jienncujufuiir,  or  because  it  agrees  with  scenes 
of  the  "  Monastery  "  in  the  circumstances  of 
the  drawbridge,  the  mill-dam,  and  other  points 
of  resemblance,  that  tlierefore  an  accurate  or 
perfect  local  similitude  is  to  be  found  in  all  the 
particulars  of  the  picture.  ^'iV  it',  .'icutt. 

Kent,  Holy  Maid  of,  or  Nun  of. 
See  Holy  Maid  of  Kent. 

Kerr,  Or'pheus  C.  (4).  [That  is,  Of- 
fice-seeker.] The  ituin  de  plumt  of 
Robert  H.  Newell,  a  humorous  and 
popular  American  writer  of  the  pres- 
ent day. 

Ketch,  Jack.  A  hangman  or  execu- 
tioner;—  so  called  in  England,  Irom 
one  John  Ketch,  a  wretch  who  lived 
in  the  time  of  James  H.,  and  made 
himself  universally  odious  by  the 
butchery  of  many  brave  and  noble 
victims,  particularly  tho-e  sentenced 
to  death  by  the  infamous  Jeffreys 
during  the  "Bloody  Assizes."  The 
name  is  thought  by  some  to  be  de- 
rived from  Richard  Jacquett,  who 
held  the  manor  of  Tyburn,  near  Lon- 
don, where  criminals  were  formerly 
executed. 

Ket'tle-drum'mle,  Gabriel  (-drum'- 
ml).  A  covenanting  preacher  in  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  ''  Old  Mortality." 

Key  of  Christendom.  A  name 
foniierly  given  to  Buda,  the  capital 
of  Hungary,  on  account  of  its  ]X)litical 
importance,  its  situation  on  the  Dan- 
ube, and  its  proximity  to  the  Ottoman 
empire.  It  was  twice  taken  by  the 
Turks  in  the  sixteenth  century,  but 
Avas  finallv  wrested  from  them  in 
the  year  1G86. 

Key  of  Russia.  An  appellation  popu- 
larly gi\on  to  Smolensk,  a  fnrtilied 
city  of  Russia,  on  the  Dnieper,  cele- 
brated for  its  resistance  to  the  French 
in  1812. 

Key  of  the  Gulf.  A  name  often  given 
to  the  island  of  Cuba,  from  its  com- 
manding position  at  the  entrance  of 
the  Gulf  of  :\Iexico. 

Key  of  the  Mediterranean.  A  name 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


KEY 


197 


KIN 


frequently  given  to  the  fortress  of 
Gibraltar,  whicli  to  some  extent  coui- 
niands  tlie  entrance  to  tlie  iMediterra- 
noan  .Sea  tiuni  tlie  Atlantic. 

Key-stone  State.  The  State  of 
l'cHiis\  Ivaiiia;  —  so  called  from  its 
ha\  in^-  been  the  central  State  of  the 
Union  at  the  time  of  the  lorniation  of 

the  Constitution.    If  the  names  of  the 


thirteen  original  btates 


are  arranged 


in  the  form  of  an  arch,  Pennsylva- 
nia will  occupy  the  place  of  the  key- 
stone, as  in  the  above  cut. 

Kil'raan-segg,  Miss.  The  heroine 
of  "  A  Golden  Legend  '"  by  Thomas 
Hood;  an  heiress  with  great  expecta- 
tions and  an  artihcial  leg  of  solid 
gold. 

King  and  Cobbler.  King  Henry 
VHI.  and  a  certain  merry  London 
cobbler,  who  form  the  subject  of  one 
of  the  many  popular  talcs  in  which 
the  sovereign  is  represented  as  visit- 
ing the  humble  subject  in  disguise. 

King  Ar'thur.  A  famous  king  of 
Britain,  supposed  to  have  flourished 
at  the  time  of  the  Saxon  invasion, 
and  to  have  died  at  Glastonbury,  in 
the  year  542,  from  wounds  received 
on  the  fatal  battle-field  of  Camlan, 
which  is  thought  to  be  Camelford, 
near  Tintagel,  in  Cornwall.  His  true 
history  has  been  overlaid  with  so 
many  absurd  fictions  by  the  monkish 
chroniclers  and  mediaeval  poets  and 
romancers,  that  many  have  errone- 
ously reijarded  him  as  altogether  a 
mythical  personage.  The  usual  resi- 
dence of  King  Arthur  was  said  to  be 
at  Caerleon,  on  the  Usk.  in  Wales, 
where,  with  his  l)eautiful  wife  Guin- 
ever,  he  lived  in  splendid  state,  sur- 
rounded by  himdreds  of  knights  and 
beautiful  ladies,  who  served  as 
patterns  of  valor,  breeding,  and  grace 
to   all    the   world.     From  his  court, 


knights  went  out  to  all  countries,  to 
protect  women,  chastise  ()))i)iessors, 
liberate  the  enchanted,  enchain  giants 
and  malirioiis  dwaris,  and  engage  in 
oilier  ciiivalious  adseiiluies.  A  popu- 
lar traditional  belief  was  long  enter- 
tained among  the  Uritoiisthat  Arthur 
was  not  dead,  but  had  been  carried 
off  to  be  healed  of  his  wounds  in 
fairy -land,  and  that  he  would  re- 
appear to  avenge  his  countrymen,  and 
resume  the  sovereignty  of  Britain. 
This  legend  was  proverbially  referred 
to  in  the  Middle  Ages,  in  speaking 
of  those  who  indulged  vain  hopes 
or  cherislied  absurd  expectations. 
According  to  another  account,  Arthur 
was  buried  by  his  sister,  the  fairy 
IMorgana,  in  the  vale  of  Avalon,  fif- 
teen feet  deep,  and  his  tomb  bore  this 
inscription,  — 

"  Ilic  jact't  Artliurus,  rex  quondam,  rexque 

t'uturus." 
Here  Artliur  lies,  king  once,  and  king  to  be. 

Giraldus  Cambrensis  states,  that,  in 
the  reign  of  Henry  H.,  a  leaden  cross 
bearing  the  inscription,  "  Ilic  jacet 
sepultus  inclytus  Jicx  Artliurus  in 
insula  AvftUunid,^^  Here  in  the  island 
of  Avalon  the  illustrious  King  Arthur 
is  buried,  was  found  in  the  cemetery 
of  Glastonbury  Abbey,  imder  a  stone 
seven  feet  below  the  surface;  and 
that,  nine  feet  below  this,  was  found 
an  oaken  coffin  containing  bones  and 
dust.  See  Excai.ibar,  Guinever, 
Igerna,  Modred,  Ron,  Round 
Table,  Uther. 

The  feats  of  Arthur  and  his  knightly  peers; 
Of  Arthur,  who,  to  upper  light  restored, 

With  that  terrific  sword 
Which  yot  he  wields  in  subterranean  war. 
Shall  lift  his  country's  fame  above  the  polar 
star!  Wordsworth. 

King  Bomba.     See  Bomba. 

King  Cam-by's^s.  The  hero  of  "  A 
Lamentable  Tragedy  "  of  the  same 
name,  by  Thomas  Preston,  an  elder 
contemporary  of  Shakespeare  ;  a 
ranting  character  known  to  modem 
readers  by  FalstafTs  allusion  to  him  in 
Shakespeare's  "1  Henry  IV."  (a.  ii., 
sc.  4),  —  "Give  me  a  cup  of  sack  to 
make  mine  eyes  look  red ;  for  I  must 
speak  in  passion,  and  I  will  do  it  in 
King  Cambyses'  vein." 

"  How!"  said  the  smith,  in  Kinfj  Camhiisei 


gnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


KIN 


198 


KIN 


Tein;  "  are  we  cominanrted  to  stand  nnd  <\e- 

liver  nil  tlio  kiiifi's  liighwuy  y"      .SV;-  H'.  Scott. 

Kill!)  I  'uiitl)!/Ms'  vt'iii  i.s,  iit'teruU,  but  a  wnrtli- 

less  one;  no  vein  tor  ii  wise  laau.  Curli/le. 

Bong  Cole,  A  k'j,a'iidarv  king  of 
Britain,  who  ivigned,  as  the  ohl 
chronicles  int'orni  us,  in  the  third 
cenlui  y  after  Christ.  Accordinj^  to 
llobert  of  Gloucester,  he  was  the 
father  of  the  celebrated  St.  Helena, 
and  the  successor  of  Asclepiad.  Jble 
is  further  relej^ated  to  the  realms  of 
fable  by  the  rli} me  that  sings,  — 

"  Old  lunrj  Cole 
Was  a  merry  old  soul, 
And  a  merry  old  soul  was  he." 

See  HalliweU's  "Nursery  Rhymes  of 
England,"  where  much  curious  in- 
formation in  regard  to  this  celebrated 
personage  may  be  Ibund. 

The  venerable  Kukj  Cole  would  find  few 
subjects  here  to  acknowledge  his  inonarcliy 
of  ni ir t h .  E.  P.  Wh ipjj le . 

lOng  Cotton.  A  popular  personifica- 
tion of  the  great  staple  production  of 
he  Southern  States  of  the  American 
Union.  I'he  supremacy  of  cotton 
sjems  to  have  been  tirst  asserted  by 
Mr.  Jaines  H.  Hammond,  of  South 
Carolina,  in  a  "Speech  delivered  by 
him  in  the  senate  of  the  United 
States,  on  the  rith  of  March,  1858, 
from  Avhich  the  following  is  an  ex- 
tract :  — 

"  No  :  Tou  dare  not  make  war  upon  cot- 
ton. No  poweron  earth  da.*es  to  make  war 
upon  it.  Cotton  is  kins:-  Luril  lately,  the 
Bank  of  England  was  king  ,•  but  she  tried 
to  put  her  screws,  as  usual,  che  fall  be- 
fore the  last,  on  the  cotton  crop,  and  was 
utterly  vanquished.  The  last  power  has 
been  conquered.  Who  can  doubt,  that 
has  looked  at  recent  events,  that  cotton 
is  supreme?  " 

When  .  .  .  the  pedigree  of  Kiiifj  Cotton  is 
trnced.  he  is  found  to  ho  the  line\l  child  of  the 
Tariff;  called  into  beinir  by  a  specific  duty: 
renred  by  a  tix  laid  upon  the  nnnufncturing; 
industry  of  the  North,  to  create  the  culture  of 
the  raw' material  in  the  South.        E.  Everett. 

King  Es'ter-mere.  The  hero  of  an 
ancient  and  beautiful  legend,  which, 
according  to  Bishop  Percy,  would 
seem  to  have  been  written  while  a 
great  part  of  Spain  was  in  the  hands 
of  the  Saracens  or  Moors,  whose  em- 
pire was  not  fully  extinuiiished  be- 
fore the  year  1491.  Sir  Walter  Scott 
suggests  that  an  old  romance,  entitled 


"  How  the  King  of  Estmureland 
married  the  daughter  of  the  King  of 
Westmureland,"  may  have  been  the 
origin  of  the  legend." 

King  Franconi  (fr6"/ko'ne',  62).  A 
nickname  given  to  Joachim  Murat 
(17()7-1815),  a  famous  Irench  gen- 
eral, trom  a  celebrated  mountebank 
of  that  name,  on  account  of  his  lan- 
tastic  love  of  iinery  in  dress.  See 
Ha>d.s(jme  Swokusman. 

King  Goldemar.     See   Goldemar, 

KlXG. 

King     Giinther.       See     Guntiiek, 

KiNCi. 

King  Horn.  The  hero  and  title  of  a 
l-iviich  metrical  romance,  the  work 
of  a  poet  Avho  calls  himself  "  Mestre 
Thomas,"  held  by  some  to  be  a 
composition  of  the  latter  part  of  the 
twellth  century,  and  the  oiiginalof 
the  Engli>h  "  Home  Childe,"  or 
"  Geste  of  Kyng  Horn."  By  others, 
the  English  poem  is  regarded  as  the 
earlier  of  the  two.  Bi.hop  Percy 
ascribed  the  English  "King  Horn" 
to  so  early  a  date  as  "  within  a  cen- 
tur\^  alter  the  Conquest,"  although, 
in  its  jiresent  Ibrm,  it  is  probably  not 
older  than  the  latter  part  of  the  thir- 
teenth century. 

King  Log.  A  character  in  a  cele- 
brated fable  of  ^Esop,  which  relates 
that  the  trogs,  groAvn  weary  of  living 
without  government,  petitioned  Jujii- 
ter  for  a  king,  and  that,  in  response 
to  their  recjuest.  he  threw  down  a 
log  among  tliem  tor  their  ruler.  The 
fable  adds  that  the  frogs,  though  at 
first  terrified  by  the  sudden  ajipear- 
ance  of  their  king,  on  becoming 
familiarized  to  his  presence,  and 
learning  his  true  character,  exjie- 
rienced  a  complete  change  of  feeling, 
their  dread  being  turned  into  the 
utmost  contempt.  They  therefore 
entreated  Jupiter  for  another  king; 
whereupon  he  sent  them  a  stork,  — 
or,  as  some  say,  a  serpent,  —  who 
immediately  began  to  devour  them 
with  unapi^easable  voracity.  Bind- 
ing that  neither  their  liberty,  prop- 
erty, nor  lives  were  secure  under  such 
a  ruler,  they  sent  yet  once  more  to 
Jupiter  for  another  king;  but  instead 


ftSf  For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


KIN 


199 


KIN 


of  giving  them  one,  he  returned  this 
answer  nKTely:  "  I'hey  that  will  not 
be  contented  when  they  are  well, 
must  be  patient  when  things  go 
amiss." 

So,  when  Jove'a  block  descended    from   on 

hi;,'h,  .  .  . 
Loud  thunder  to  its  bottom  shook  the  bog, 
And  tlie  hoarse  nation  croaked,  "  God  save 

Kinrj  Log .' "  I'ope. 

I  do  not  find  throughout  the  whole  of  it 
[Wouter  Van  Twiller's  reign]  a  single  in- 
Btanee  of  any  offender  beinir  hrought  to  pun- 
ishment,—  a  most  induliitaldc  si'j:u  of  a  mer- 
ciful governor,  and  a  case  unparalleled,  ex- 
cepting in  the  reign  of  the  illustrious  King 
Log,  from  whom,  \t  is  hinted,  the  renowned 
Van  TwiUer  waa  a  lineal  descendant.^ 

W.  Irving. 

King-maker,  The.  A  title  popularly 
conferred  luion  Richard  Nevil,  Earl 
of  WarwicK  (d.  1471),  who  was 
chierty  instrumental  in  deposing 
King  Henry  VI.,  and  raising  the 
Duke  of  York  to  the  throne  as  Ed- 
ward IV.,  and  who  afterward  put 
Edward  to  flight,  and  restored  the 
crown  to  Henr\\ 

Thus,  centuries  after  feudal  times  arc  past, 
we  find  warriors  still  gitluring  under  the  old 
castle-walls,  and  eommiindcd  by  a  fliulid  lord, 
just  as  in  the  days  of  the  King- maker,  who,  no 
doubt,  often  mustered  his  retainers  in  the 
same  mirket-place  where  I  beheld  this  mod- 
ern regiment.  Hawthorne. 

King  Nibelung  (ne'ba-lobng).  A 
king  of  the  Nibelungen,  a  mythical 
Biirgundian  tribe,  who  give  name  to 
the  great  mediieval  epic  of  Germany, 
the  "  Nibelungen  Lied."  He  be- 
queathed to  his  two  sons  a  hoard  or 
treasure  beyond  all  price  or  compu- 
tation, and  incapable  of  diminution, 
which  was  w^on  by  Siegfried,  who 
made  war  upon  the  Nibelungen  and 
conquered  them.     See  Siegfried. 

Here  is  learning;  an  irregular  treasury,  if 
you  will,  but  inexhaustible  as  the  hoard  of 
King  Xibehing,  which  twelve  wagons  in 
twelve  days,  at  the  rate  of  three  journeys  a 
day,  could  not  carry  off.  Carlyle. 

King  No'del.  The  name  of  the  lion 
in  the  old  (Tcrman  animal-epos  enti- 
tled "  Keinecke    Fuchs."      See   Re- 

NARD. 

King  of  Bark.  A  sobriquet  given  by 
the  Swedish  peasants  of  his  dav  to 
Christopher  HI.  (d.  1448),  king'  of 
Dermiark,  Sweden,  and  Norway,  on 
account  of  their  having  had  to  use 
birch-bark  mixed  with  meal,  in  a 
time  of  scarcity.     INlichelet  says  that 


Christopher  himself  was  obliged  to 
subsist  temporarily  on  the  bark  of  a 
tree,  and  derived  the  nickname  from 
this  circumstance. 
King  of  Bath  (2).  A  title  bestowed 
ujxin  Rii.'iiardNa<h  (1074-17(31  ),com- 
nioidy  called  "  lieau  Nasii,"  a  cele- 
brated master  of  the  ceremonies,  or 
president  over  amusements,  at  Bath, 
England.  His  leign  continued,  with 
undiminished  splendor,  for  lifteen 
years. 

King  of  Beggars.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  Bampfyldc  3Ioore  Carew,  a  noted 
English  vagabond,  who  died  in  1758. 
An  "•  Apology  "  lor  his  life  was  writ- 
ten bv  Robert  Goadby  (8vo,  London, 
1749). 

King  of  Brave  Men.  [Fr.  Roi  des 
Bnivcs.]  A  surname  or  title  given 
bv  the  troops  under  his  command  to 
Henry  IV.  ( 1553-1010),  a  valiant  and 
successful  general. 

King  of  Cots'would.  Grey  Br\'dges, 
Lord  Chandos  (d.  1021);-^  so  called 
from  his  magnificent  style  of  living, 
and  his  numerous  attendants.  Cots- 
icould,  or  Cotswuld,  is  the  name  of  a 
range  of  hills  in  Gloucestershire,  in 
the  neighborhood  of  Sudley  Castle, 
his  lordship's  residence. 

King  of  England's  Viceroy.  A 
name  given  bv  the  French,  in  de- 
rision, to  Louis  XVIII.  (1755-1824), 
on  account  of  his  manifestations  of 
gratitude  to  the  government  of  Great 
Britain  for  the  assistance  he  had 
received  from  it  in  recovering  the 
throne  of  his  ancestors. 

King  of  Feuilletons  (ffPv'^to"',  43, 
62).  [Fr.  Le  Roi  des  Fttiillcfons.] 
A  sobriquet  given  to  Jules  Gabriel 
Janin  (b.  1804),  a  clever  and  ex- 
tremely popular  French  journalist, 
who  for  many  years  w^as  connected 
with  the  "Journal  des  D^bats "  as 
a  writer  for  the  "•  /"(?^/^7/eton,"  or  that 
part  of  the  paper  devoted  to  light 
literature  and  criticism,  it  being  the 
foot  of  the  page,  and  separated  from 
the  upper  portion  by  a  heavy  line. 

King  of  Kings.  [Gr.  Bao-iAev?  Ba- 
criAetoi'.]  1.  A  title  givcu  to  Christ 
in  Rev.  xvii.  14. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiy-xzxii. 


KIX 


200 


KIN 


2.  A  title  given  to  Artaxerxes,  or 
Aniisliir  (d.  241),  the  lirst  bassaiiide 
king  of  I'ersia. 
King  of  Men,  1.  A  title  given  by 
Homer,  in  tlie  '"  Iliad,"  to  Agamem- 
non, king  of  MyeeniU. 

Slic,  toi>,  [Electru,]  though  a  Grecian  wom- 
an, and  the  dauglitcr  of  the  Kiiii/  of  i)/«i, 
yet  wept  sometimes,  and  liid  lier  face  in  lier 
robe.  De  (/uuicey. 

2.  The  same  title  is  given  to 
Jupiter  and  to  Odin.  See  Jupitek 
and  Odin. 
King  of  Painters.  A  title  assumed 
by  Parrliasius  of  Ephesus,  a  cele- 
brated painter  of  anticjuity,  and  the 
contemporary  of  Zeuxis.  According 
to  Plutarch,  he  was  accustomed  to 
dress  himself  in  a  purple  robe,  and 
wear  a  crown  of  gold. 

King  of  Preachers.  [Fr.  Le  Roi  des 
Pir'Iic'it(furs.]  A  name  conferred 
upon  Louis  Bourdaloue  (1032-1704), 
a  noted  French  preacher. 

King  of  Reptiles.  [Fr.  Le  Roi  des 
Reptiles.]  A  nickname  given  to 
Bernard  (iermain  Etiemii'  do  la  Ville, 
Count  Lacc'pede  (1758-182.")),  on  ac- 
count of  his  researches  in  natural 
historv,  and  also  on  account  of  the 
ready  eloquence  with  which  he  justi- 
fied the  arbitrary  measures  of  the 
Emperor  Napoleon.  He  was  the 
author  of  a  work  entitled  "  Histoire 
des  Ri-ptiles.''' 

King  of  Tars.  The  subject  and  title 
of  an  ancient  English  metrical  ro- 
mance. Tars  is  Thrace,  or,  accord- 
ing to  some  commentators,  Tarsus. 

King  of  Terrors.  A  common  person- 
ification of  death. 

nis  confidence  yshall  be  rooted  out  of  his 
tabernacle,  and  it  shall  bring  him  to  the  Kinr/ 
of  Terrors.  Joj  xviii.  14. 

King  of  the  Border.  A  name  given 
to  Adam  Scott  of  Tushielaw,  a  noted 
robber  who  infested  the  border  terri- 
tory' of  England  and  Scotland. 

King  of  the  Courts.  [Lat.  Rex 
J iirHriorum.]  A  name  conferred 
by  Cicero  upon  Quintus  Hortensius 
(d.  B.  c.  50),  a  distinguished  Roman 
forensic  orator. 

King  of  the  French.  [Fr.  Le  Roi  des 
FraiK^ais.]     The  original  style  or  ti- 


tle of  the  French  kings,  which  was 
changed  into  that  of  ""  Kmg  of 
I'rance"  bv  Philip  Augustus  U17'J- 
122.J).  On  the  lUth  of  Oct.,  178*J,  the 
National  Assembly  decreed  that  the 
old  style  should  be  resumed  l)y  l^ouis 
XVI.  In  17'J2,  the  nionaicliy  was 
abolished,  and  the  republic  declared; 
but  in  1814  the  house  of  liourlxtii 
was  restored,  and  both  Louis  XVHL 
and  Charles  X.  assumed  tlie  title  of 
"  King  of  France."'  In  1830,  the 
Kevolution  of  July  occurred,  and  soon 
after  Louis  Philippe  was  called  to 
the  throne  as  constitutional  '•  King 
of  the  rrench,"  a  title  which  he 
formally  accepted  on  the  UUi  of 
August. 

King  of  the  Markets.  [Fr.  Le  Roi 
des  //((//(-.S.J  A  sobriquet  conferred 
upon  Franf'ois  de  \'end<iine  licaufort 
(IGKJ-lOfi!)),  grandson  of  Henry  IV. 
He  acquired  tliis  name  trom  his  pop- 
ularity with  the  i'ari.-ians,  his  tamiliar 
manners,  and  the  pleasure  he  took 
in  using  their  language  and  slang. 

Kling  of  the  Romans.  [Lat.  Rex 
Roi/i'iHoriiiii.]  A  title  assumed  by 
the  Emperor  Henrv  II.,  previous  to 
his  coronation  in  1014.  He  was  the 
first  reigning  prince  of  Italy  or  Ger- 
many who  bore  it.  In  1U55,  it  was 
conlerred  upon  the  eldest  son  of 
Henry  III.,  and  afterward,  for  many 
years,  Avas  lu)rne  by  the  heirs  of  the 
emperors  of  Germany.  Na])oleon  I. 
conferred  the  title  of  "  King  oi" 
Rome"  upon  his  son,  March  20^ 
1811. 

Bang  of  "Waters.  A  name  given  to 
the  river  Amazon. 

King  of  Yvetot  (ev'to').  [Fr.  Le 
Ri'i  d'  ri-eiot.]  A  title  assumed  by 
the  lord  of  a  little  principality  in 
France,  named  Yvetot,  i-ome  time  in 
the  latter  part  of  the  eleventh  cen- 
tury. In  the  sixteenth  century,  the 
title  of  king  was  changed  to  that  of 
prince  souveroin,  and,  at  a  later  day, 
the  idea  of  sovereignty  attached  to 
this  seigniory  disappeared.  P)(''ran- 
ger  has  made  of  the  King  of  Yvetot 
a  model  of  a  potentate,  a  good  little 
king,  not  known  in  historv.  but  hap- 
pier than  any  monarch,  having  taken 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationfc 


KIN 


201 


KIT 


pleasure  for  his  code.  '*  Under  this 
apologue,"  t^ays  Tissot,  '*  Ik-rangor 
has  satirized  tlie  Groat  Eni])eror  him- 
self." The  title  is  luetapliurically 
applied  to  a  ruler  of  large  j)reteusioiis, 
but  insiguilicaut  authority. 

There  was  u  Khxj  oj  i'relol  once 

But  little  known  in  story; 
To  bed  lietitius,  and  rising'  late, 
Sound  sleeper  without  j,'lory; 
With  cotton  iiJLclit-eaii,  toii,  instead 
Of  crown,  would  Jenny  deck  his  head, 

'T  is  said. 
Rat  tat,  rat  tat,  rat  tat,  rat  tat. 
Oh,  what  u  ^ood  little  king  was  tliat! 

Ilat  tat.  JienuKjcr,  Trans. 

They  would  exchange  Caesar  for  Prusias, 
and  Napoleon  for  the  King  of  Yvetot. 

Victor  lluijo.  Trans. 

!King  Pe-9lieur'.  {¥y.  ]>e<  fieur,  a  sin- 
ner.] Unele  of  Perceval,  and  keeper 
of  the  sangreal  and  sacred  lance,  the 
guardianship  of  -which  was  intrusted 
only  to  a  descendant  of  Joseph  of 
Arimathea,  and  on  the  sole  condi- 
tion of  his  leading  a  life  of  perfect 
purity  in  thought,  word,  and  deed. 
Having  one  day  so  far  forgotten  the 
obligations  of  his  sacred  othce  as  to 
look  with  unhallowed  eye  upon  a 
young  female  pilgi'im,  whose  robe 
was  accidentally  loosened  as  she  knelt 
before  him,  his'  frailty  was  instantly 
punished  by  the  sacred  lance  spon- 
taneously falling  upon  him,  and  in- 
flicting a  deep  and  incurable  wound. 

King  Pellenore.     See  Pellenore. 

KingP6taud  (pii'to').  A  French  name 
occurring  only  in  the  phrase,  "Xe  caur 
de  Roi  Petrnid,'"  The  court  of  King 
Petaud.  It  derives  its  origin  from 
an  assembly  of  begaars,  who  formerly 
held  meetings  under  the  presidency 
of  the  most  adroit,  or  the  poorest, 
among  them,  who  took  the  title  of 
King  Petaud  (from  the  Latin  pi-tere, 
to  beg).  The  phrase  "  the  court  of 
King  Petaud"  denotes  a  place  of 
confusion,  where  every  thing  is  out 
of  order,  where  every  body  is  master. 

King  Pym.  A  sobriquet  given,  on 
account  of  his  great  popularity  and 
his  political  influence,  to  John  Pym 
(1584-1043),  leader  of  the  English 
house  of  commons  during  the  strug- 
gle preceding  the  parliamentary  wars. 
He  was  originally  so  called  by  the 
royalists,  in  derision. 


King  Eyence.    See  Ryence,  King. 

Kings,  The  Do -nothing.  See 
Fain^am's,  Les  Kois. 

King  Sacripant.  See  Sackipant, 
King. 

King  Serpent.     See  King  Log. 

It  might  have  Iteen  as  well  e.\|>ected  that  the 
frogs  in  th':,  fable  would,  in  case  of  invasion, 
have  risen  in  a  mass  to  defend  King  Serpent. 
AVr  W.  Scott. 

Kings  of  Brentford,  The  Two. 
See  Bkemtfoed,  The  Two  Kings 

OF. 

Kings  of  Cologne,  The  Three. 
See  Cologne,  The  Thkee  Kings 

OF. 

King  Stork.    See  King  Log. 

Kink'eljMme.  Ap.'^eudonym  adopt- 
ed by  Miss  Elizabeth  Sara  Sheppard, 
an  English  novelist  {d.l8(J2),  author 
of  "  Charles  Auchester,"  "  Counter- 
parts," &c. 

Kin'mont  Willie.  William  Arm- 
strong, of  Kinmonth,  a  notorious  free- 
booter of  the  latter  part  of  the  six- 
teenth century,  and  the  hero  of  a 
spirited  and  iamous  Scottish  ballad. 

Kirke,  Edmund  (4).  The  literarj'- 
name  of  James  Koberts  Gilmore,  an 
American  writer,  author  of  ''Among 
the  Pines,"  "  My  Southern  Friends," 
&c. 

Kirke's  Lambs.  A  name  given  to 
the  soldiers  of  Colonel  Percy  Kirke, 
an  otticer  in  the  English  army  in  the 
time  of  James  II.,  on  account  of  their 
ferocity  and  the  barbarities  which 
they  committed. 

Kiss  of  Lamourette.  See  Lamou- 
kette's  Kiss. 

Kitchen  Cabinet.  A  name  sportively 
given,  in  the  United  States,  to  Francis 
P.  Blair  and  Amos"  Kendall,  by  the 
opponents  of  President  Jackson's  ad- 
ministration. Blair  was  the  editor 
of  "  The  Globe,"  the  organ  of  the 
president,  and  Kendall  was  one  of  the 
principal  contributors  to  the  paper. 
As  it  was  necessary  for  Jackson  to 
consult  frequently  with  these  gentle- 
men, and  as,  to  avoid  observation, 
they  were  accustomed,  when  they 
called  upon  him,  to  go  in  by  a  back 
door,  the  AVhig  party  styled  them,  in 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


KIT 


202 


KRI 


derision,  the  "  Kitchen  Cabinet,"  al- 
leging that  it  was  by  their  advice 
that  the  president  removed  so  many 
AVhigs  from  othce  and  put  Democrats 
in  their  place. 

Kite,  Sergeant.  A  prominent  char- 
acter in  Far(|uhar"s  comedy  of  "  The 
Kecruitiiig  Othcer."'  He  is  an  origi- 
nal and  admirable  picture  of  low  life 
and  humor. 

Kitely.  The  name  of  a  rich  city 
merchant,  extremely  Jealous  of  his 
wife,  in  Ben  Jonson's  comedy  of 
"  Ever\*  Man  in  his  Humor." 

Klabotermann  (kla-bo'tef-man).  A 
ship  koboldof  the  Baltic,  who  is  some- 
times heard,  but  rarely  seen.  He 
helps  sailors  at  their  work,  and  beats 
them  with  a  rope"s-(^nd,  uhen needful. 
He  appears  only  to  doomed  vessels, 
sitting  on  the  bowsprit  of  a  phantom- 
ship  called  '•  Carmilhan,"  smoking 
a  short  pipe,  dressed  in  yellow  sail- 
or's clothes,  and  wearing  a  nigbt-cap. 
[Written  also  K  1  a  b  a  u  t  e  r  m  a  n  n.] 

Klaus,  Peter  (klowss).  The  hero  of 
an  old  po])ular  tradition  of  Germany, 

—  the  prototype  of  Kip  Van  Winkle, 

—  represented  as  a  goat -herd  from 
Sittendorf,  who,  one  day  leading  his 
herd  to  pasture  on  the  Kytfhiiuser, 
was  accosted  l)y  a  yoimg  man,  who 
silently  beckoned  him  to  follow.  The 
goat-herd,  obeying  the  direction,  was 
led  into  a  deep  dell  inclosed  by  crag- 
gy precipices,  where  he  found  twelve 
knightly  personages  playing  at  skit- 
tles, no  one  of  whoin  uttered  a  word. 
Gazing  around  him,  he  observed  a 
can  of  wine  which  exhaled  a  delicious 
fragrance.  Drinking  from  it,  he  felt 
inspired  with  new  life,  but  at  length 
was  overpowered  l)v  sleep.  When 
he  awoke,  he  found  himself  again  on 
the  plain  where  his  goats  were  accus- 
tomed to  rest.  But,  rubbing  his  eyes, 
he  could  see  neither  dog  nor  goats; 
he  was  astonished  at  the  height  of 
the  grass,  and  at  trees  which  he  had 
ne\'er  before  ob-erved.  Descending 
the  mountain  and  entering  the  village, 
he  found,  to  his  consternation,  that 
every  thing  in  the  place  wore  an 
altered  look  ;  most  of  the  ^>eople  were 
strangers  to  him;  the  few  acquaint- 


ances he  met  seemed  to  have  grown 
suddenly  old;  and  only  at  last  by 
mutual  inquiries  was  the  truth  elicited 
that  he  had  been  asleep  tor  twenty 
years.  The  story  is  related  inOtmar's 
"  Volcks-Sagen  "  (Traditions  of  the 
Harz),  Bremen,  1800.  See  Epimen- 
iDKs,  Sleeping  Beauty  in  the 
Wood,  and  Winkle,  Kip  Van. 

Your  Epimenides,  vour  somnolent  Peter 
Klaus,  since  named  "  Rip  Van  Winlcle." 

Carlyle. 

Knick'er-bock'er,  Die'drich  (de'- 
drik  nik'er-bok'er).  The  imaginary 
author  of  a  humorous  tictitious  "  His- 
tory of  New  York,"  written  by  Wash- 
ington Irving. 

Knight  of  La  Mancha.    See  Don 

UlIXUTE. 

Knight  of  the  Sorrowful  Counte- 
nance. [Aho  Knif^/it  of  ifie  Wxful 
Countenance,  or  Knu^Jit  of  the  Rueful 
Cminienance.]  An  appellation  given 
to  Don  Quixote.  See  Don  Quix- 
ote. 

Know-nothings.  A  name  popular- 
ly given,  in  the  United  States,  to  a 
short-lived  party  of  "  Native  Amer- 
icans," a  secret  political  order,  Avhich 
sprung  np  in  1853,  and  into  which 
no  members  were  admitted  whose 
grandfathers  were  not  natives  of  the 
country.  To  all  questions  regarding 
the  movements  of  the  organization, 
the  prescribed  reply  was,  "  I  don't 
know:"  hence  the  nickname.  The 
cardinal  principles  of  the  party  were, 
the  repeal  or  radical  moditication  of 
the  naturalization  laws;  the  ineligi- 
bility to  public  ottice  of  any  but  na- 
tive Americans;  a  pure  American 
common-school  system;  and  opposi- 
tion to  Catholicism.  The  party  split 
on  the  slavery'  question,  and  became 
divided  into  "  North  Americans  "  and 
"  South  Americans."  See  Hindoos 
and  Sam. 

Kriemhilt.     See  Chriemiiild. 

Kriss  Kringle  (kring'gl),  or  Christ 
Kinkle  (kingk'l).  [From  Ger. 
Krlst/cindlein,  Christ-child.]  A  term 
somewhat  A'agueJy  used  in  the 
United  States,  —  where  (jemian  and 
Dutch  customs  prevail,  —  both  tbr 
Christ  in  his  bovhood  and  for  St. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciation,"   with  the  accompanying  EzpUmatiwuii 


KRI 


203 


KUV 


Nicholas.  It  generally  means  the 
latter,  who,  under  the  inHuence  of 
the  former,  is  presumed  to  issue  his 
rewards  to  good  children,  on  the  vigil 
of  his  festival,  "  Christ  Kinkle  eve," 
disguised  in  a  fur  cap  and  strange 
apparel,  with  a  capacious  bag  before 
him  from  which  to  distribute  his 
gifts.  Under  the  name  Ptlznichd 
{ptlz,  fur),  in  Germany,  he  is  the 
terror  of  the  young  at  that  season,  as 
he  is  presumed  to  have  heard  all 
about  them  from  the  omniscient 
Christ-child.  He  is  the  Mumbo  Jumbo 
of  Teutonic  nations.  By  the  little 
children  he  is  often  propitiated  as 
follows :  — 


"  ChriRtkindchen  koram; 
Much  iiiicli  t'roiiiiii ; 
Daa  ich  zu  dir  in  Iliinniel  komm.'' 

Christ-child  come;  make  me  devout? 
that  I  may  come  to  thee  in  heaven. 
On  Christmas  eve,  the  young  folks 
hang  up  their  stockings  in  tlieir 
cliambers  in  expectation  of  being 
held  in  remembrance  by  the  same 
mysterious  stranger.  [Written  also 
C  r  i  s  s  K  r  i  n  g  1  e  and  C  r  i  s  s 
Cringle.] 

Kuvera  (koo-vil'ra).  [Sansk.,  having 
a  wretched  body.]  {Hindu  Mylh.) 
The  god  of  riches,  represented  as 
frightfully  deformed,  and  as  riding  in 
a  car  drawn  by  hobgoblins. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  nurabers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


LAB 


204 


LAG 


L. 


Labe,  Queen.    See  Queen  La  be. 

Lach'e-sis.  [Gr.  Adxe^i?.]  (6V.  ^ 
lixiii.  Myth.)  One  of  the  three  Fates; 
tliu  one  tliat  spun  the  thread  of  lilie. 
See  pAKc.t:. 

XiS-co'ni-a.  A  name  originally  given 
to  a  tract  of  country  bounded  by  the 
Merrimack,  the  Kenneljcc,  the  ocean, 
and  the  "  Mi  ver  of  Canada,"  included 
in  a  royal  giant  to  Ferdinaudo  Gorges 
and  John  .NJas^on. 

Ladies'  Peace.  [Fr.  La  Paix  des 
Damts.]     (Fr.  Hist.)     The  treaty  of 

Eeace  concluded  at  Cambrai,  in  1529, 
etween  Francis  L  of  Fran«e,  and 
Charles  V.,  emperor  of  (xermany. 
It  was  so  called  because  it  was  chief- 
ly negotiated  by  Louise  of  Savoy, 
mother  to  Francis,  and  ^largaret, 
duchess -dowager  of  Savoy,  the  em- 
peror's aunt. 
Lady  Bountiful.  A  character  in 
Farquhar's  "Beaux'  Stratagem;  "a 
benevolent  old  country'  gentlewoman 
who  goes  about  curing  all  sorts  of 
distempers. 

To  sum  up  the  -whole,  the  dame  .  .  .  being 
&  sort  of  Lain/ /lountifiil  in  lier  way,  .  .  .  w.is 
proud  of  the  skill  by  which  she  had  averted 
the  probable  attacksof  hereditary  malady,  so 
inveterate  in  the  family  of  Bridgenorth. 

Sir  ir.  Scott. 

He  [Southey]  conceives  that  ...  he  [the 
magistrate]  ought  to  be  a  perfect  .iack-of-all- 
trades,  —  architect,  enginoc-.  scl'inolniister, 
merchant,  theologian,  a  Lm/;i  /.'ountij'iit  in 
every  parish,  a  Paul  Prv  in  every  house,  spy- 
ing, eavesdropping,  relieving,  nrlmonishing, 
spending  our  money  for  us,  choosinz  our 
opinions  for  us.  Macaulati. 

Lady  of  Avenel,  The  "White.  See 
White  Lady  of  Avenei. 

Lady  of  England.  A  title  conferred 
upon  Matilda,  daughter  of  Henry  L 
of  England,  and  wife  of  Geoffrev 
Plantagenet,  by  a  council  held  at 
Winchester,  April  7,  1141. 

Lady  of  Sha-lott'.  A  maiden  of 
gentle  birth  and  exquisite  beauty, 
who  fell  in  love  with  Lancelot  du 
Lac,  and  died  on  finding  her  passion 
unrequited  and  alto^ctlier  hopeless. 
Tennyson   has   made   her   story  the 


subject  of  one  of  the  most  beautiful 
of  his  minor  poems. 

Lady  of  the  Lake.  1.  A  name  giveri 
to  \Mvian,  mistress  of  the  enchanter 
Merlin.  She  had  a  pahue  situated 
in  the  midst  of  an  imaginary  lake, — 
like  that  often  seen  by  the  traveler 
across  tropical  deserts,'  —  whose  de- 
luding senil)lance  served  as  a  barrier 
to  her  residence.  Here  she  dwelt, 
surrounded  by  a  splendid  court  of 
knights  and  damsels,  and  attended 
by  a  numerous  retinue. 

2.  The  title  of  a  poem  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott,  and  a  name  given  to 
its  heroine,  Ellen,  the  daughter  of 
Douglas,  the  former  favorite  of  King 
James,  but  now  banished,  disgraced, 
and  living  in  a  secret  retreat  near 
Loch  Katrine. 

Lady  of  the  Sun.  A  name  given  to 
Alice  Ferrers  (or  Pierce),  a  mistress 
of  Edward  HI.  of  England,  and  a 
married  Avoman  of  great  beauty,  who 
had  been  lady  of  the  bed-chamber  to 
Queen  Philippa.  Although  Edward 
lavished  upon  her  both  honors  and 
riches,  yet  at  his  death  she  stole  his 
jewels,  taking  even  the  rings  from 
his  fingers. 

Lady  of  Threadneedle  Street.  See 
Old  Lady  of  Thkeadneedle 
Street. 

Lady  Touchwood.  See  Touch- 
wood, Lady. 

Li-er'tes  (4).  Son  to  Polonius,  and 
brother  to  Ophelia,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  "  Hamlet." 

La-feii'.  An  old  lord,  in  Shakespeare's 
'■'  All 's  Well  that  Ends  Well." 

La-ga'do.  The  name  of  the  capital 
city  of  Ralnibarbi.  a  continent  subject 
to  the  king  of  Laputa.  (See  Gulli- 
VEK,  Lemfkl.  )  Fagado  is  celebrated 
for  its  grand  academy  of  projectors, 
who  try  to  extract  sunbeams  from 
cucumbers,  to  calcine  ice  into  gun- 
powder, &:c.  L)  the  descrij)tion  of 
this  fancied  academy.  Swift  ridicules 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


LAI 


205 


LAL 


the  speculative  philosophers  and  the 
false  and  ciiiiuerical  pretL'uders  to 
science  who  were  so  cuninion  in  his 
day. 

La'i'-us  (20).  [Gr.  AaVo?.]  (  Gr.  <.f  Rom. 
Mijlh.)  A  king  of  Thebes,  and  the 
father  of  (Edipus,  by  whom  he  was 
unwittingly  killed. 

La-ke'di-6n,  Isaac.     See  Jew,  The 

W^ANDKIUNG. 

Lake  Poets,  Lake  School,  Lakers, 
or  Lakists.  A  nickname  given  by 
the  British  critics,  near  the  beginning 
of  the  present  century,  to  '•  a  certain 
brotherhood  of  poets" — to  use  the 
language  of  the  "  Edinburgh  lleview," 
vol.  xi.,  p.  214  —  wlio  ''haunted  for 
some  years  about  the  lakes  of  Cum- 
berland," and  who  were  erroneously 
thought  to  have  united  on  some 
settled  theory  or  principles  of  com- 
position and  style.  Wordsworth, 
Southey,  and  Coleridge  were  re- 
garded as  the  chief  representatives 
of  this  so-called  school,  but  Lamb, 
Lloyd,  and  Wilson  were  also  included 
under  the  same  designation. 

i6£g=" "  The  author  who  is  now  before  us 
[Southey]  belong-*  to  a  sect  of  poets  thr>,t 
has  established  itself  in  this  country 
within  these  ten  or  twelve  years,  and  is 
looked  upon,  we  believe,  as  one  of  its 
chief  champions  and  apostles.  The  pecu- 
liar doctrines  of  this  sect  it  would  not, 
perhaps,  be  very  easy  to  explain ;  but 
that  they  are  dissenters  from  the  estab- 
lished systems  in  poetry  and  criticism  is 
admitted,  and  proved,  indeed,  by  the 
whole  tenor  of  their  compositions."  .  .  . 
''  The  productions  of  this  school  .  .  .  can- 
not be  better  characterized  thm  by  an 
enumeration  of  the  sources  from  which 
their  materials  have  been  derived.  The 
greatest  part  of  them,  we  ajiprehend.  will 
be  found  to  be  composed  of  the  fnllcsini^ 
•lements  :  1.  The  anti-sociil  principles 
and  distempered  sensibility  of  Itous-^eau  ; 
his  discontent  with  the  present  constitu- 
tion of  society  :  his  paradoxical  morality  ; 
and  his  perpetual  hankerings  after  some 
unattainable  state  of  voluptuous  virtue 
and  perfection.  2.  The  simplicity  and  en- 
ergy (liorrescn  ref'-rens)  of  Kotzetjue  and 
Schiller.  3.  The  homeliness  and  harsh- 
ness of  some  of  Cowper's  language  and 
versification,  interchanged  occasionally 
with  the  innocence  of  Ambrose  I'hilips, 
or  the  quaintness  of  Quarles  and  Dr. 
Donne.  From  the  diligent  study  of  these 
few  originals,  we  have  no  doubt  tha^  an 


entire  art  of  poetry  may  be  collected,  by 
the  assistance  of  which  tlie  very  Kentlest 
of  our  reatlers  may  soon  be  (lualiHed  to 
compose  a  poem  as  correctly  versifi(?d  as 
'  Thalaba,'  and  to  deal  out  sentiment  and 
description  with  all  the  sweetness  of 
Lamb,  and  all  tlie  magnificence  of  Cole- 
ridge. '  Eilinburgk  Rev.,  vol.  i. 
j^^  "  When,  some  years  ago,  a  gentle- 
man [.Mr.  Jetfrey],  the  chief  writer  and 
conductor  of  a  celet>ratc(l  review  [the 
'  Eiiinburgh  Review  '  ]  distinguished  by 
its  hostility  to  Mr.  .Southey,  spent  a  day 
or  two  at  Keswick  [.Mr.  Soutiiey's  placo 
of  i-esideme],  he  was  circuiiist  mtially 
informed  by  wiiat  series  of  accidents  it 
had  happened  that  Mr.  Wordsworth,  Mr. 
Southe>,  and  1  had  become  iieigubors ; 
and  how  utterly  groundless  was  tiie  sup- 
position that  we  considered  ourselves  aa 
belonging  to  any  coiiiiuon  school  but  that 
of  good  sense,  confirmed  by  the  long- 
established  models  of  the  best  times  of 
Greece,  Rome,  Italy,  and  England,  and 
still  more  groundless  the  notion  that  Mr. 
Southey  (for,  as  to  myself,  1  have  pub- 
lished so  little,  and  that  little  of  so  little 
unportance,  as  to  make  it  almost  ludi- 
crous to  mention  my  name  at  all)  could 
have  been  concerned  in  the  formation  of 
a  poetic  sect  with  Mr.  \V'ordsw(M'th,  when 
so  many  of  his  works  had  been  published, 
not  only  previously  to  any  acquaintance 
between  them,  but  before  Mr.  Words- 
worth himself  had  written  any  thing  but 
in  a  diction  ornate  and  uniformly  sus- 
tained ;  when,  too,  the  slightest  exami- 
nation will  make  it  evident  that  between 
tho.se  and  the  after- writings  nf  Mr.  South- 
ey there  exists  no  other  difference  than 
that  of  a  progressive  degree  of  excellence, 
from  progressive  development  of  power, 
and  progressive  facility  from  habit  and 
increase  of  experience.  Yet,  among  the 
first  articles  vrhich  this  man  wrote  after 
his  return  from  Keswick,  we  were  char- 
acterized as  '  the  school  of  whining  and 
hypochondriacal  poets  that  haunt  the 
Lakes.' "  Coleridge. 

Lake  State.  A  name  popularly  given 
to  the  State  of  Michigan,  wliich  bor- 
ders upon  the  four  lakes,  Superior, 
Michigan,  Huron,  and  P^rie. 

Laks'mi.  {flimlu  Mijth.)  The  con- 
sort of  Vishnu,  and  the  goddess  of 
beauty,  grace,  riches,  and  pleasure. 
She  is  a  favorite  subject  of  Indian 
painting  and  poetry,  and  is  pictured 
as  a  being  of  transcendent  loveliness, 
yet  of  a  dark  blue  color. 

Lal'la  Robkh.  The  title  of  a  poem 
by  Aloore,  and  the  name  of  its  hero- 


<ind  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xrxiL 


LAM 


206 


LAM 


ine,  the  daughter  of  the  great  Au- 
rengzebe.  She  is  betrothed  to  the 
young  king  of  Bucharia,  and  sets 
forth  with  a  splendid  train  of  attend- 
ants, to  meet  him  in  the  delightful 
valk-y  of  Cashmere.  To  amuse  the 
languor,  or  divert  the  impatienee,  of 
the  royal  bride,  in  the  noontide  and 
night  halts  of  lu-r  luxurious  progress, 
a  young  (,'ashnierian  poet  had  been 
sent  by  the  gallantry  of  the  bride- 
groom, and,  on  tliese  occasions,  he 
recites  the  several  tales  that  make  up 
the  bulk  of  the  poem.  With  him 
she  falls  desperately  in  love,  and  by 
the  time  she  enters  the  lovely  vale  of 
Cashmere,  and  sees  the  glittering 
palaces  and  towers  prepared  for  her 
reception,  she  feels  that  she  would 
joyfully  forego  all  this  pomp  and 
splendor,  and  fly  to  the  desert  with 
the  youthful  bard  whom  she  adores. 
He,  however,  has  now  disappeared 
from  her  side,  and  she  is  supported, 
with  fainting  heart  and  downcast 
eye,  into  the  presence  of  her  tyrant; 
when  a  well-known  voice  bids  her  be 
of  good  cheer,  and,  looking  up,  she 
sees  her  beloved  poet  in  the  prince 
himself,  who  had  assumed  this  gal- 
lant disguise,  and  won  her  affections, 
without  any  aid  from  his  rank  or  her 
engagements. 

Lam'bro.  The  piratical  father  of 
Haidee,  in  Byron's  "Don  Juan;" 
considered  by  Coleridge  to  be  the 
finest  of  all  Byron's  characters. 

Lame  and  Unstable  Peace.  [Fr. 
Paix  Boiteusa  et  Mal-dsslse.]  (Fr. 
Hist.)  A  name  given  to  a  treaty  of 
peace,  of  short  duration,  concluded 
with  the  Calvinists,  in  1 5*18,  in  the 
name  of  Charles  IX.,  by  Biron,  who 
was  lame.  [Called  also  1 11-;/ rounded 
Ptnct  and  PnUhtd-up  Peace.] 

La'tni-a.  [Gr.  Aaixc'a.]  ( ^r.  cf  Eom. 
Myth.)  A  female  phantom,  whose 
name  was  used  as  a  bugbear  to 
frighten  children.  According  to  tra- 
dition, she  was  a  Libyan  queen,  a 
daughter  of  Bel  us,  of  great  beauty, 
and  beloved  by  Jupiter,  for  which 
reason  the  jealous  Juno  robbed  her 
of  her  children.  Lamia,  tilled  with 
revenge  and  despair,  and  unable  to 


injure  Juno,  robbed  others  of  their 
children,  whom  she  afterward  nmr- 
dered.  Her  face  became  fearfully 
distorted  and  ugly  by  indulgence  in 
such  savage  cruelty,  and  Jupiter  in- 
vested her  with  still  greater  terror  by 
giving  her  the  power  of  taking  out 
her  eyes  and  putting  them  in  again 
at  w'ill.  Lamia  is  the  subject  and  ti- 
tle of  an  admired  poem  by  Keats. 

jft^  In  a  later  age,  a  belief  .sprang  up 
in  a  pluralit}'  of  Lamia;,  handsome  >pec- 
ters,  wiio,  by  voluptuous  artifices,  enticed 
young  meu  to  tiieiii.  in  order  to  feast 
upou  their  tlesh  aud  blood. 

Lam'mi-kin.  The  subject  of  a  welL 
known  .Scottish  ballad. 

4fg='  '*  The  licrn.  if  such  a  term  is  appli- 
cable  to  the  blood-tliirsty  ma.son,  has  been 
celebrated  under  the  names  of  Launnikin, 
Lamkin,  Liukin,  Beliukin,  Bold  Kankin, 
and  Ualcaiiqual,  and  has  become,  through 
the  medium  of  injudicious  servants,  the 
prime  terror  of  tlie  Scottish  nursery, 
liike  most  such  ogres,  he  is  a  myth  ;  at 
least,  I  have  never  seen  any  satisfactory 
attempt  at  his  identification,  nor  has  any 
one  discovered  the  locality  of  the  castle 
which  he  built  and  baptized  with  blood." 

Aytoun. 

Lamourette's  Kiss  (la'moo'ret'). 
[l'"r.  Le  B'liser  de  Lnmourette.]  (Fr. 
Hist.)  A  name  derisively  given  to  a 
sudden  reconciliation  of  the  diflerent 
factions  of  the  Legislative  Assembly, 
which  had  previously  been  bitterly 
hostile  to  each  other.  It  was  br<»ught 
about,  on  the  7th  of  July,  1792,  by 
an  eloquent  appeal  of  the  Abb(^  La- 
mourette,  constitutional  bishop  of 
Lyons,  —  whose  name  signifies  the 
sn-ect/ienrt,  —  but  was  of  verv  brief 
duration.  [Called  also  La  Jiiconcl- 
Viation  Xormnru/e,  or  T/ie  NornKin 
RecimciHation,  from  the  countr}'-  of 
the  bishop.] 

K^  ''  The  deputies  of  every  faction, 
Royalist,  Constitutionalist,  Girondist, 
Jacobin,  and  Orleanist.  rushed  into  each 
other's  arms,  and  mixed  tears  with  the 
solemn  oaths  by  which  they  renounced 
the  innovations  supposed  to  be  imputed 
to  them.  The  king  was  sent  for  to  enjoy 
this  spectacle  of  concord,  ?-o  strangely 
and  so  unexpectedly  renewed.  Hut  the 
feeling,  though  strong. — and  it  might 
be  with  many  overpowering  for  the  mo- 
ment, —  was  but  like  oil  spilt  on  tlie  rag- 
ing sea,  or  rather  like  a  shot  fired  acrosa 


V3f  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


LAX 


207 


LAX 


the  wares  of  a  torrent,  which,  though  it 
counteracts  th«'in  by  its  uiomcutary  iiii- 
pul.se,  cannot  fur  a  secoud  alt^-r  their 
course.  The  factions,  like  Le  Saj?e"s  de- 
mons, detested  each  other  the  more  lor 
having  been  compelled  to  embrace."' 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Lan'ce-lot  du  Lac,  or  Lancelot  of 
the  Lake.  Tlie  son  of  King  Ban 
of  Brittany,  and  one  of  tiie  must 
fanioiis  knights  of  the  Kound  Table; 
equally  remarkable  for  In's  gallantry 
and  good-nature,  lie  was  the  hero 
of  a  celeljrated  romance  of  chivalry, 
■written  in  Latin  by  an  unknown  au- 
thor, and  translated  by  Walter  Mapes, 
in  the  twelfth  century.  He  received 
the  appellation  of  du  Lac  "  from  hav- 
ing been  educated  at  the  court  of  Viv- 
ian, mistress  of  the  enchanter  Merlin, 
and  better  known  as  the  Lady  of  the 
Lake.  Lancelot  Avas  celebrated  ibr 
his  amours  Avith  Guinever,  the  wife 
of  his  friend  and  sovereign,  King- 
Arthur,  and  for  the  exploits  he  un- 
dertook for  her  sake,  which  involved 
him  in  a  long  and  cruel  war  with  Ar- 
thur. Toward  the  close  of  his  life, 
he  became  a  hermit. 

4®="  "  Thou  .  .  .  wert  never  matched 
of  none  earthlv  knighf  "s  hands  ;  and  thou 
wert  the  curtiest  knight  that  ever  bare 
shield  :  and  thou  wert  the  truest  friend 
to  thy  lover  that  ever  bestrode  hor.-^e  ;  and 
thou  wert  the  truest  lover,  of  a  sinful 
man,  that  ever  loved  woman  ;  and  thou 
wert  the  kindest  man  that  ever  struck 
with  sword  ;  and  thou  wert  tiie  goodliest 
person  that  ever  came  among  press  of 
kniglits  ;  and  thou  wert  the  meekest  man 
and  the  gentlest  that  ever  ate  in  hall 
among  ladies  :  and  thou  wert  the  stern- 
est knight  to  thy  mortal  foe  that  ever  put 
spear  in  the  rest."'  Morte  d'Attkitr. 

Ijand  of  Beu'lah.  In  Bunyan's  alle- 
gory, "  The  Pilgrim's  Progress,"  a 
land  of  rest  and  quiet  (symbolizing 
the  Christian's  peace  of  mind),  rep- 
resented as  lying  upon  the  hither 
side  of  the  river  of  Death.  In  it  tlie 
pilgrims  tarry  till  their  summons 
comes  to  cross  the  stream,  and  enter 
the  Celestial  City.  The  name  occurs 
in  ha.  Ixii.  4. 

4fg=  "  After  this,  I  beheld  until  they 
came  unto  the  land  of  Beulah,  where  the 
sun  shineth  night  and  day.  Here,  be- 
cause they  were  weary,  they  betook  them- 


selves awhile  to  rest.  But  a  little  whil« 
soon  refresiied  them  liere  ;  tor  the  bells 
did  so  ring,  i.nd  the  trumpets  continu- 
ally .-ouniled  ,so  melodiously,  that  they 
could  not  slee]),  and  \  et  they  received 
as  much  refreshing  as  if  they" had  slept 
their  sleep  ever  so  .'^oundly.  Here  al.so 
all  the  noise  of  them  that  walked  the 
streets  was,  More  pilgrims  are  come  to 
town  1  And  another  would  answer,  say- 
ing. And  so  many  went  over  the  water, 
and  were  let  in  at  the  golden  gates  to-day  ! 
In  this  land  they  heard  nothing,  saw  noth- 
ing, smelt  nothing,  tasted  nothing,  that 
was  f  flensive  to  their  stomach  or  mind  ; 
only  when  they  tasted  of  the  water  of  the 
river  over  whicli  tliey  were  to  go,  they 
thought  that  it  tasted  a  little  bitterish  to 
the  palate  ;  but  it  proved  sweet  when  it 
was  down." 

Land  of  Bondage.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Lgypt.  The  Israel- 
ites, during  the  fir.'^t  part  of  their  so- 
journ in  that  country,  were  treated 
with  great  kindness,  and  increased 
in  numbers  and  prosperity;  but  at 
length  "  there  aro.-e  up  a  new  king 
over  Egypt,  Avhich  knew  not  Joseph," 
and  who  adopted  a  subtle  system  to 
afliict  and  reduce  them  by  making 
them  perform  forced  labor,  and  soon 
afterward  by  killing  their  male  chil- 
dren. This  oppression  led  to  the  ex- 
odus, the  forty  years"  wandering  in 
the  Avilderness,  and  the  subsequent 
conquest  and  occupation  of  the  land 
of  Canaan. 

Land  of  Cakes.  A  name  sometime.s 
given  to  Scotland,  because  oatmeal 
cakes  are  a  common  national  article 
of  ibod,  particidarly  among  the  poorer 
classes. 

Hoar,  Land  o'  Ciile^  and  britlier  Scots, 
Frae  iMaidenkiik  to  John  o'  Groats, 
If  there  's  a  hole  in  a'  your  coats, 

I  rede  ye  tent  it: 
A  chiel  's  amanjj  yon  tnkin'  notes. 

And,  faith,  he  '11  i^rent  it.        Bums. 

The  lady  loves,  and  adniucs,  and  worshiijs 

every   thii'io:    Scottisli;  tlie  frentleman    looks 

down  on   tlie  Lund  of  Cuke f  like  a  Buperior 

intelligence.  Ulucf.ux)od's  Mug. 

Land  of  Nod.  The  state  or  condition 
of  sleep,  conceived  of  as  a  country 
which  people  visit  in  their  dreams. 

;gfg=-  This  figure  is  evidently  borrowed 
from  the  use  of  the  English  word  noil,  as 
denoting  the  motion  of  the  head  in  drow- 
siness. But  it  was  also,  most  probably, 
at  first  employed  as  containing  a  ludi- 
crous allusion  to  the  language  of  Scripture 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxil. 


LAN 


208 


LAP 


Id  re^rd  to  the  conduct  of  the  first  mur- 
derer :  "And  Cain  went  out  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord,  and  dwelt  ia  the 
land  of  Nod."     (  Utii.  iv.  1(3.) 

"And  d'ye  ken,  lass," said  Madge,  "there  's 
queer  things  cliaiiced  since  ye  liae  been  in 
tlie  Land  u/  Xod  f  "  Hir  W.  Scott. 

Land  of  Promise.  See  Pkomised 
Land. 

Land  of  Steady  Habits.  A  name 
by  whii'h  the  State  of  Connecticut 
i.s  sometimes  desi<?nated,  in  allusion 
to  the  settled  usaj,'es  and  staid  de- 
portment of  its  inhabitants. 

Land  of  "Wisdom.  [Fr.  La  Pays  de 
S'tpii'iice.]  A  name  given  to  Nor- 
mandy, in  France,  because  of  the 
wise  customs  wiiich  have  prevailed 
there,  and  also  because  of  the  skill 
and  judgment  of  the  people  in  mat- 
ters of  jurisprudence. 

Lane,  "Wycliffe.  A  pseudonym  of 
iNIrs.  E.  Jenings,  a  writer  of  tlie 
present  day. 

Lang'staff,  LSun'ce-lot  (2).  A 
pseudonym    under    which     '"  Salma- 

fundi "  was  jointly  published  by 
N^ashington  Irving,  Wdliam  Irving, 
and  James  K.  Paulding. 
Languish,  Miss  Lydia.  The  hero- 
ine of  Sheridan's  comedy  of  ''  The 
Rivals;"  distinguished  for  the  ex- 
travagance of  her  romantic  notions. 

Let  not  those,  however,  who  enter  into  a 
union  for  life  witliout  those  cnibarrassnieuts 
which  delight  a  .  .  .  Lfj'lia  LanguUh,  and 
which  are  perhaps  necessary  to  excite  an  en- 
thusiastic passion  in  breasts  more  tirm  than 
theirs,  au^ur  worse  of  their  future  happiness, 
because  tneir  own  alliance  is  formed  under 
calmer  auspices.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Lauternois,  L'lle  des  (lei  di  \b^'- 
ter^na',  02).  See  Island  of  Lan- 
terns. 

Li-oc'6-on.  [Gr.  AaoKoiov.]  ( Gr.  (f 
Rom.  Xfijtii.)  A  son  of  Priam  and 
Hecuba,  and  a  priest  of  Apollo,  or, 
as  some  say,  of  Neptune.  He  op- 
posed the  reception  of  the  Wooden 
Horse  into  Troy,  thinking  it  some 
artifice  of  the  deceitful  Greeks.  He 
and  liis  two  sons  were  killed  by  two 
monstrous  serpents  which  came  from 
the  sea;  but  the  reason  of  their  be- 
ing made  to  suffer  this  horrible  fate 
is  dilferently  stated.  The  serpents 
first  entwined  the  boys,  and,  when 


their  father  attempted  to  rescue  then\ 
they  involved  and  crushed  him  also 
in  their  coils.  The  death  of  Laocoou 
is  the  subject  of  one  of  the  most 
magniticent  and  celebrated  works  of 
ancient  sculpture  still  in  existence; 
it  was  discovered  in  15U(J  at  lionie, 
and  is  now  i>»'eserved  in  the  Vatican. 

Li-od'a-mi'a.  [Gr.  AaoSdMfia.]  ( G'r. 
c)'-  lioiii.  My(/i.)  The  wife  of  Protes- 
ilaus,  whom  she  followed  to  the  un- 
der-world, after  his  death  at  the 
hands  of  Hector.  Wordsworth  has 
made  this  myth  the  subject  of  his 
ex(juisite  poem  entitled  '"  Laodamia." 
See  Pkotesilaus. 

Li-om'e-don.  [Gr.  \aoixeSuiv.']  {Gr. 
</■  Horn.  Myth.)  A  king  of  Troy, 
son  of  Ilus  and  Eurydice,  and  the 
father  of  Priam,  Ganymede,  and  Ti- 
thonus.  With  the  assistance  of  Apol- 
lo and  Xeptune,  he  built  the  walls  of 
Troy;  but,  when  the  work  was  done, 
he  refused  to  pay  the  reward  which 
he  had  promised  for  the  labor,  and 
expelled  them  from  his  dominions. 
Hereupon  Xeptune  sent  a  sea  mon- 
ster to  ravage  the  country;  and  in 
compliance  with  the  command  of  an 
oracle,  a  maiden,  chosen  by  lot,  was 
from  time  to  time  sacriticed  to  pro- 
pitiate it.  On  one  occasion,  Laome- 
don's  own  daughter  Hesione  was  the 
victim  selected;  but  Hercules  saved 
her  on  receiving  a  certain  solemn 
promise  from  her  father,  which  not 
being  fulfilled,  Hercules  killed  him. 

Lap'i-thae.  [Gr.  AaniOai.]  {Gr.  ^ 
lioin.  Myth.)  Monstrous  giants  in- 
habiting the  mountains  of  Thessaly. 
At  the  marriage  of  their  king,  Piritli- 
ous,  they  fought  with  the  Centaurs 
and  vancjuished  them,  but  were  after- 
ward themselves  overcome  by  Her- 
cules. 

La-pu'ta.  The  name  of  a  flying  isl- 
and described  by  Swift  in  his  imagi- 
nary "  Travels  "  of  Lemuel  Gulliver. 
It  is  said  to  l>e  "  exactly  circidar,  its 
diameter  78-57  yards,  or  about  four 
miles  and  a  half,  and  [it]  consequently 
contains  ten  thousand  acres."  The 
inhabitants  are  chiefly  specidative 
philosophers,  devoted  to  mathemat- 
ics and  music ;  and  such  is  their  ha- 


0^-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Tronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


LAR 


209 


LAS 


bitual  absent-mindedness,  that  they 
are  compelled  to  employ  attendants 
—  called  "  dappers  "  — to  rouse  tlieni 
from  their  proiound  meditations, 
when  necessary,  i)y  striking'  them 
gently  on  the  mouth  and  ears  with  a 
peculiar  instrument  consistiuy;  of  a 
blown  bladder  with  a  tew  pebbles  in 
it,  fastened  on  the  end  of  a  stick,  like 
the  swiple  of  a  flail.     See  Lagauo. 

Thou  art   an   unfortunate   philosoplier  of 

Laputa,  who  has  lost  his  flapper  in  the  throng. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Strange  it  is,  that,  whilst  all  biographers  have 
■worlied  witli  so  iiuich  zeal  upon  tlie  most 
barren  dates  or  most  baseless  traditions  in  tlie 
great  poetV  life,  realizing  in  a_  manner  tlie 
dreams  o\'  Laputa,  and  endeavoring  to  extract 
sunbeams  from  cucumbers,  such  a  story  with 
regard  to  such  an  event  .  .  .  should  formerly 
have  been  dismissed  without  notice  of  any 
kind.  De  Quincey. 

So  materializing  is  the  spirit  of  the  age,  that 
the  extended  stucYv  of  physical  and  mechani- 
cal science  seems  likely,  one  of  these  days,  to 
convert  our  island  into  a  Laputa.     Keightley. 

La'ra.  The  hero  of  Byron's  poem  of 
the  same  name;  represented  as  a 
chief  long  absent  from  his  own  do- 
main, who  returns  at  length,  attended 
by  a  single  page.  Dark  hints  and 
surmises  are  thrown  out  against  him 
by  a  noble  whom  he  encounters  at  a 
banquet,  and  who  seems  to  be  pos- 
sessed of  some  knowledge  of  the 
manner  in  which  Lara's  time  has 
been  occupied  during  his  prolonged 
absence.  This  knight  disappears 
most  opportunely  for  the  reputation 
of  Lara,  when  he  should  have  come 
forward  to  substantiate  the  charges 
against  him,  and  is  never  heard  of 
at^er.  A  peasant,  however,  is  witness 
to  the  concealment  of  a  corpse  on  the 
same  night,  and  the  reader  is  left  to 
draw  his  own  conclusions. 

La'res.  [Lat.,  pi.  of  Inv.^  a  word  of 
Etruscan  origin,  signifying  lord,  king, 
or  /lero.]  (Rom.  Mfjth.)  Tutelary 
deities  of  particular  localities.  They 
were  of  two  classes :  1.  The  domestic 
Inres,  or  household  gods,  whose  im- 
ages were  kept  on  the  hearth  in  a 
little  shrine,  or  in  a  small  chapel,  and 
who  were  regarded  as  disembodied 
and  guardian  spirits  of  virtuous  an- 
cestors ;  2.  The  public  Inres,  protect- 
ors of  streets,  highways,  cross-roads, 
&c.  [Written  also,  in  an  Anglicized 
form,  Lars.] 


La  Ro9he.  A  Protestant  clergyman, 
whose  story  —  written  by  Henry 
Mackenzie  —  is  told  in  "  I'he  Mir- 
ror." 

Lar'vee.  {Rom.  Myfh.)  The  same 
as  Lcmuris.     See  Lkmukks. 

Last  Man.  An  appellation  given,  by 
the  parliamentary  partv  in  Knglaiid, 
to  Charles  L  (ltJUU-l(J4"J),  he  being, 
in  their  expectation,  the  last  mouaich 
who  would  ever  sit  on  the  Lritish 
throne. 

He  did  not  consider  himself  as  free  in  con- 
Bcience  to  join  with  any  party  whicli  might  be 
likely  ultimately  to  acknowledge  the  interest 
of  Charles  Stuart,  the  son  of  the  "  Lant  Man," 
as  Charles  I.  was  familiarly  and  irreverently 
termed  by  them  in  their  common  discourse, 
as  well  as  in  their  more  elaborate  predications 
and  harangues.  sir  W.  Scott. 

Last  of  the  Fathers.  A  title  given 
by  some  Roman  Catholic  writers  to 
St.  Bernard  (10i)l-115;J),  one  of  the 
most  intiuential  theologians  and  vo- 
luminous writers  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

Last  of  the  Goths.  Boderick,  the 
thirty -fourth  and  last  of  the  Visi- 
gothic  line  of  kings,  Avho  filled  the 
throne  of  Spain  from  411  to  711. 

Last  of  the  Greeks.  [Lat.  Ultimvs 
Groicoruin,  Or.  "Yo-Taros-  'EkK-qvMv.l 
An  appellation  confeiTed  upon  Phil- 
opoemen  (b.  v.  253-183),  a  native  of 
Arcadia,  and  the  last  really  great  and 
successful  military  leader  of  the  an- 
cient Greeks. 

iKg=  "  One  of  the  Romans,  to  praise 
him,  called  him  the  Last  of  the  Greeks, 
as  if  after  him  Greece  liad  produced  no 
great  man,  nor  one  who  deserved  the 
name  of  Greek."  Plutarch^  Trans. 

Last  of  the  Knights.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Maximilian  L  (1459- 
1519),  emperor  of  Germany. 

"  The  iasC  of  the  Knights"  with  his  wild 
effrontery  and  spirited  chamois  -  hunting, 
might  be  despised  by  the  Italians  as  "  Mas- 
similianoPochi  Danari  [IVfaximilian  the  Pen- 
niless];" but  he  was  beloved  by  the  Anstri- 
ans  as  "  Our  Max."  Yonr/e. 

Last  of  the  Mo-hi'cans.  The  hero 
of  Cooper's  novel  of  the  same  name, 
by  which  title  the  Indian  chief  Uncas 
is  designated. 

Last  of  the  Romans.  [Lat.  Ulti- 
mus  Roma  norma.']  1.  A  name  apH 
plied  to  the  Roman  general  Aetius, 
by  Procopius.     When  the  invasion 


Snd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxziL 

14 


LAS 


210 


LAW 


of  Attila  took  place  in  A.  D.  450, 
Aetius,  with  the  help  of  Theodoric, 
arrested  it  lirst  by  tlie  relief  of  Or- 
leans,  and  then  by  the  victory  of 
Chiilons.  ^\  ilh  his  death,  wiiieh  oc- 
curred in  45-4,  the  last  support  of  the 
empire  tell. 

iJ.  A  name  given  by  Marcus  Ju- 
nius Brutus  to  his  lellow-conspirator, 
Caius  Cassius  Longinus  (d.  i'..  c.  42), 
one  of  the  murderers  of  J  ulius  Caisar, 
and  one  of  the  best  generals  of  his 
age. 

3.  [hr.  Le  Dernier  des  Romdiris.^ 
A  title  bestowed  upon  l'ran(;ois  Jo- 
seph Terasse  Desbillons  (1751-178J), 
a  celebrated  Jesuit,  on  account  of 
the  elegance  and  purity  of  his  Latin 
style. 

Last  of  the  Troubadours.  A  name 
given  by  his  admirers  to  Jacques 
Jasmin  ( 1798-18IJ4),  a  native  of  Gas- 
cony,  and  the  most  eminent  moiiern 
pat^)is  poet  of  France. 

La-ti'nus.  A  son  of  Faunus,  and 
king  of  the  Laurentians,  a  people  of 
Latium,  in  Italy.  When  iBneas 
first  arrived  in  Latium,  Latinus  op- 
posed him;  but  he  afterward  ibnned 
an  alliance  with  him,  and  gave  him 
his  daughter  Lavinia  in  marriage. 

Latin  "War.  ( Ger.  Hist. )  An  insur- 
rection of  the  peasantry  in  Salzburg, 
in  1523,  occasioned  by  the  unpop- 
ularity of  an  archbishop.  It  was 
quickly  suppressed. 

La-to'na.  [Gr.  Atjtu>,  Doric,  Aarui, 
^olic,  Aariui'.]  {(Jr.  tf-  Rom.  Myth.) 
Dauirhter  of  Coeus,  a  Titan,  and 
Pho-be,  and  by  Jupiter  the  mother 
of  Apollo  and  Diana,  to  whom  she 
gave  birth  on  the  island  of  Delos. 
(See  Dklos.)  Ovid  ("Met.  "  vi..fab. 
iv.)  relates  a  story  of  some  clowns  of 
Lycia  who  insulted  Latona  as  she 
knelt  with  the  infant  deities  in  arms 
to  quench  her  thirst  at  a  small  lake, 
and  who  were  in  consecpience  changed 
into  frogs. 

I  did  hut  prompt  the  ago  to  quit  their  clogs 
Bv  the  known  rules  of  ancient  liherty. 
When  straight  a  barharoua  noise  environs 
me 
Of  owls  and  euckoow,  asses,  apeu,  and  dog«: 
As  when  those  hinds  that  were  transformed  to 
frogs 


Railed  at  iMtona^st  twin-bom  progeny, 
Wkich  utter  held  tlie  buu  luid  uiiKtu  in  fee. 

Milton. 

Laughing  Philosopher.  Democri- 
tus  ot'  Abdi  ra.  a  celebrated  ])hiloso- 
pher  of  antiquity,  coiitenqxirary  with 
Socrates;  —  so  called  because  he  al- 
ways made  a  jest  of  man's  follies 
and  sorrows,  his  teeble  struggles  and 
evanescent  works.  He  is  usually 
contrasted  with  Heraclitus,  '•  The 
Weeping  Philosopher."  See  Weep- 
ing  PHILOSOPHEH. 

Liaun9e.  An  awkward  and  silly  serv- 
ant of  Proteus,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona." 

Liaun'fftl,  Sir.  One  of  the  knights 
of  the  Pound  Table,  the  subject  of 
a  metrical  romance  composed  by 
Thomas  Chestre,  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  VI.  The  name  has  also  been 
adopted  as  the  title  of  a  poem  by 
James  Kussell  Lowell,  entitled  "  The 
Vision  of  Sir  Launfal." 

Laura  (7^ //row.  low' ra).  The  Chris- 
tiaii  name  of  an  Avignonese  lady, 
young,  I'ut  already  married,  lor 
whom,  in  the  3'ear  1327,  the  poet 
Petrarch  conceived  a  strong  though 
Platonic  aHection,  which  exercised  a 
powerful  influence  over  his  life,  and 
ended  only  with  his  death.  He  sung 
her  praises  in  "  rime,"  or  sonnets 
and  canzoni,  which  have  immortal- 
ized not  only  her  name,  but  his  own. 

Latirence,  Friar.  See  Fkiak  Lau- 
rence. 

L5-vin'i-a.  1.  A  daughter  of  Latinus, 
and  the  second  wife  of  ^neas.  She 
had  previously  been  betrothed  to 
Turnus.    See  Latinus  and  Cheusa. 

Sad  task!  yet  argument 
Not  less  but  more  l)eroic"than  tlie  .  .  .  rage 
Of  Turnus  for  Lariniu  di6csiX)UBed.      Mulon. 

2.  The  heroine  of  a  tale  introduced 
by  Thomson,  in  his  "  Seasons,"  into 
the  poem  on  "  Autumn."    See  Pale- 

M«»N. 

Law's  Bubble.  A  name  given  to  a 
delusive  speculation  piojected  by 
John  Law  (1671-1729),  a  celebrated 
financier,  and  a  native  of  Edinburgh. 
In  1710,  he  established  a  bank  in 
France,  by  royal  authority,  composed 
of  1200  shares  of  3000   livres   each, 


For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciatioa,"  with  the  accompanying  Explasatioua, 


LAZ 


211 


LEA 


which  soon  bore  a  premium.  This 
bank  became  the  othce  tor  all  public 
receipts,  and  tbere  was  annexed  to  it 
a  Mississi])pi  company,  which  bad 
j^rants  of  laud  in  Louisiana,  and  Avas 
expected  to  realize  immense  sums  by 
plantini;  and  counnerce.  In  17 J 8,  it 
was  declared  a  royal  bank,  and  its 
shares  rose  to  twenty  times  their 
original  value,  so  that,  in  1719,  they 
were  worth  more  than  eig'bty  times 
the  amount  of  all  the  current  specie 
in  France.  In  1720,  the  shares  sunk 
as  rapidly  as  they  had  risen,  nearly 
overtin-owing  the  French  govern- 
ment, and  occasioning  great  and 
wide  -  spread  tinancial  distress  and 
bankruptcy. 

Laz'a-rus.  A  poor  leper,  who,  in  the 
parable  of  our  Lord  {Lukt  xvi.),  im- 
plored in  vain  the  pity  of  a  rich  man; 
but  after  the  death  of  both,  Lazarus 
went  to  heaven,  and  the  rich  man  to 
hell,  where  he  in  turn  vainlj'  implored 
help  from  Lazarns. 

1^/^  This  is  the  only  rase  in  the  New  Tes- 
fcuiient  where  a  proper  name  occurs  in  a 
parable.  The  use  of  the  wortl  Inzzarn  ap- 
plied to  a  leper,  and  of  the  words  hizarettn 
and  laznr-hoiisf  for  leper  hospitals,  and 
of  Inzznroni  for  bessars,  shows  the  influ- 
ence which  this  parable  has  had  upon  the 
mind  of  Christendom. 

Lazy,  Lawrence.  The  hero  of  a 
popular  "  history,"  or  romance,  of 
ancient  date,  ''  containing  his  Birth 
and  slothful  breeding;  how  he  served 
the  Schoolmaster,  his  Wife,  the 
Squire's  Cook,  and  the  Farmer, 
which,  by  the  laws  of  Lubberland, 
was  accounted  Higli  Treason  ;  his 
Arraigmnent  and  Trial,  and  happy 
deliverance  from  the  many  treasons 
laid  to  his  charge." 

League,  The.  [Yv.  Ln  Li(iueS\  (Fr. 
Hist.)  A  political  coalition  organized 
in  157G  by  the  Roman  Catholics  of 
France,  to  prevent  the  accession  of 
Henry  IV.,  who  was  then  of  the  re- 
formed religion.  [Called  also  The 
Holy  Lenf^tie  (Fr.  Ij(t  Sainte  Li(pte), 
and  The  Holy  Union  (Fr.  La  Stinie 
Union). '\ 

League  and  Covenant,  Solemn. 
See  Solemn  League  and  Cove- 
nant. 


League  of  God's  House.  [Fr.  Licfue 
de  Id  Afdison  de  iJicii.]  {Siri.<^x  Hist.) 
A  celebrated  combination  Ibrmed  by 
the  (irisons  in  1400,  lor  the  pur- 
pose of  resisting  domestic  tyranny- 
[Called  also  Cuddtv.] 

League  of  the  Public  Good.     [Fr. 

Lif/ue  dii  Bitn  Puhlic]  (Fr.  Hist.) 
An  alliance,  in  14G4,  between  the 
dukes  of  Burgundy,  Brittany,  and 
Bourgogne,  and  other  French  princes, 
against  Louis  XL 

Leander.  [Gr.  Aeiai/Spo?.]  A  youth 
of  Abydos,  famous  for  his  love  for 
Hero,  a  priestess  of  Sestos,  to  visit 
whom  he  nightly  swam  across  the 
Hellespont.     See  Hei:o. 

L6andre  (la'uu'dr,  62,  64,  103).  A 
lover  in  Moliere's  "  L'Etourdi." 

Lear.  A  fabulous  or  legendary  king 
of  Britain,  and  the  hero  of  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of  the  same  name. 
He  is  represented  as  a  fond  father, 
duped,  in  his  old  age,  by  hypocritical 
professions  of  love  and  duty  on  the 
part  of  two  daughters  ((ioneril  and 
Kegan),  to  disinherit  the  tiiird  (Cor- 
delia), who  had  beibre  been  deserv- 
edly more  dear  to  him,  and  to  divide 
his  kingdom  between  her  sisters,  who, 
by  their  pertidious  and  cruel  con- 
duct, soon  drive  the  poor  old  king 
mad.  After  his  misery  has  reached 
its  highest  pitch,  he  is"  found  by  the 
daughter  whom  he  has  so  deeply  in- 
jured; and,  through  her  tender  care, 
he  revives  and  recollects  her.  She 
endeavors  to  reinstate  him  upon  his 
throne,  but  fails  in  her  attempt,  and 
is  hanged  in  prison,  where  her  broken- 
hearted father  dies  lamenting  over 
her. 

Learned    Blacksmith.        A    name 

sometimes  applied  to  Elihu  P>urritt 
(b.  1811),  wlu)  l)egan  life  as  a  black- 
smith, and  afterAvard  distinguished 
himself  as  a  linguist. 

Learned  Tailor.  A  title  sometimes 
bestowed  upon  Henry  WihL  a  native 
of  Norwich,  England,  where  he  was 
born  about  the  yeai-  1684.  He  Avas 
in  early  life  a  tailor,  and,  Avhile 
working  at  his  trade,  mastered  the 
Latin,  Greek,  Hebrew,  Chaldaic,  Syr- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  tee  pp.  xit- 


LK.\ 


212 


IT:! 


iac,  Arabic,  and  Perpian  lanjiuages. 
[Called  also  Tlit  Ambinn  Tnilur.] 

Leatherstocking.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  Natty,  or  Nathaniel,  Buitippo,  a 
celebrated  character  in  Cooper's  nov- 
els of"  The  Deerslayor,"  "  'I'lie  I.nst 
of  the  Mohicans,"  "'I'lie  Piithfiiider." 
*'  The  Pioneers,"  and  '•  The  Prairie." 

4®=-  "  Leiitherstockin,!;  stands  half-way 
between  saviig;e  and  civilized  life;  he  has 
the  freshness  of  nature,  a  nl  the  first- 
fruits  of  CiiristianitN .  the  seed  dropped 
into  vigorous  soil.  These  are  the  elements 
of  one  of  the  most  original  characters  in 
fiction,  in  whom  Cooper  has  transplanted 
all  the  chivalry,  ever  feigned  or  practiced 
in  the  Middle  Ages,  to  the  rivers,  woods, 
and  forests  of  the  unbroken  New  World."' 
Dui/ckinck. 

One  Natt'i  Leathomtockhig,  one  melodious 
synopsis  of  man  and  nature  ni  the  West. 

Carbjle. 

IjG  Beau.  A  courtier,  in  Shakespeare's 
"As  You  Like  It." 

Ije'da.  [Gr.  ArJSa.]  {Gv.  cf  Rom. 
My'tli.)  The  daughter  of  Thestius, 
and  the  wife  of  Tyndareus.  Jupiter 
falling  in  love  with  her,  and  visiting 
her  in  the  form  of  a  swan,  she  bore 
two  eggs,  from  one  of  Avhich  came 
forth  Pollux  and  Helen,  and  from 
the  other  Castor  and  Clytemnestra. 

Led'dy  Grip'py.  The  name  of  the 
heroine  in  "  The  Entail,"  a  novel  by 
Gait. 

A  decreet  o'  court,  Jamie,  as  Leddie  Grinpjf 
would  have  said.  Prof.  J.  IVilfon. 

Le  Fevre  (lu  fev'r,  64).  The  name 
of  a  poor  lieutenant,  whose  story  is 
related  in  Sterne's  "  Life  and  Opin- 
ions of  Tristram  Shandy." 

Legion.  The  name  assumed  by  the 
demoniac,  or  the  unclean  spirit, 
spoken  of  in  ^fark  v.:  "My  name 
is  Legion;  for  we  are  many."  The 
term  implies  the  presence  of  a  supe- 
rior power,  in  addition  to  subordi- 
nate ones. 

Legion,  The  Thundering.  See 
TnuNDEinxo  Legion. 

Leg-of-Mutton  School.  A  name 
given  to  those  poetasters,  who,  at- 
taching themselves  as  parasites  and 
dependents  to  persons  of  wealth  and 
station,    endeavor  to   pay  for   good 


dinners  and  sumptuous  entertainmenf 
by  servile  tiattery  of  tiieir  pa  iron, 
and  profuse  laudation  of  him  and  liis, 
the  "  leg  of  mutton  "  being  supposed 
to  typify  the  source  of  their  inspira- 
tion, which  is  chietly  gustatory.  1  he 
phrase  was  llrst  used  by  Lockhart,  in 
a  review  of  a  ridiculous  poem  iiititled 
"  Heurs,  a  Poem  in  lour  Pooks," 
the  author  of  which  is  not  named. 
Heurs  Castle  was  the  seat  of  the 
Duke  of  Koxburghe,  whose  nuitt«)U 
and  hospitality  the  rhymster  ap{)ear3 
to  have  shared,  greatly  to  his  delec- 
tation. 

;8®="  "  The  chief  constellations  in  this 
poetical  firmament  consist  of  led  captaina 
and  clerical  hangers-on,  whose  pleasure 
and  whose  busim-ss  it  is  to  celebrate  ia 
tuneful  verse  the  virtues  of  some  angelic 
patron,  who  keeps  a  good  table,  and  has 
interest  with  the  archbishop,  or  the  In- 
dia House.  Verily,  they  hive  their  re- 
ward. The  anticipated  living  falls  vacant 
in  due  time,  the  son  gets  a  pair  of  colors, 
or  is  sent  out  as  a  cadet,  or  the  happy 
author  succeeds  in  dining  five  times  a 
week  on  hock  and  venison,  at  the  small 
expense  of  acting  as  toad-eater  to  the 
whole  family,  from  my  lord  to  the  butler 
inclusive.  It  is  owing  to  the  modesty, 
certainly  not  to  the  numerical  deficiency, 
of  this  class  of  writers,  that  they  have 
hitherto  obtained  no  specific  distinction 
among  the  authors  of  the  present  day. 
We  think  it  incumbent  on  us  to  remedy 
this  defect;  and.  in  the  baptismal  font  of 
this  our  magazine,  we  declare,  that  ia 
the  poetical  nomenclature  they  shall  ia 
future  be  known  by  the  style  and  title 
of  The  Lfs:-  of-  Mutton  School.''''  .  .  . 
"  lie  [the  bard  of  Fleurs  abovenientioned] 
is  marked  by  a  more  than  usual  portiou 
of  the  qualities  characteristic  of  the  Lfg- 
of-Miitton  School :  by  all  their  vulgar  ig- 
norance, by  more  than  all  their  clumsy 
servility,  their  fawning  adulation  of 
wealth  and  title,  their  hankering  after 
the  tiesh-pots.  and  by  all  the  symptoms 
of  an  utter  incapacity  to  stand  straight 
in  the  presence  of  a  great  man.'" 

Z.  {J.  G.  Lock/iart),  Blackwood'.''  Mag. 
vol.  ix. 

Le-gree'.  A  slave  -  dealer,  in  Mrs. 
Stowe's  novel,  "  L'ncle  Tom's  Cab- 
in; "  a  hideous  exhibition  of  the  bru- 
talizing influence  of  slavery. 

Leigh,  Au-ro'ra  (lee).  The  heroine 
of  Mrs.  Browning's  jioem  of  the  same 
name ;  "  the    representative    of    the 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  with  the  atcompauying  Explauationu, 


LEI 


213 


LEO 


spiritual  and  o?sthetic  spirit  of  the 
age,  through  whom  are  exemplified 
the  noble  ends  and  the  high  ottice  of 
true  art." 

Lei'la.  The  name  of  tlie  heroine  in 
BjTon's  poem  of  "  Tlie  Giaour;" 
a  beautiful  slave  -  girl  who  suffers 
death  for  love  of  her  paramour,  a 
young  "  infidel." 

Leilah.     See  Mejnoun. 

L.  E.  L.  The  initials  and  literary- 
signature  of  Letitia  Elizabeth  Lan- 
don  (afterward  Mrs.  Maclean,  1802- 
1838),  a  well-known  English  poetess. 

Ij6lie  (la'le').  An  inconsequential, 
light-headed,  gentleman -like  cox- 
comb, in  Moliere's  "  L'fitourdi." 

Lem'u-res.  {Rom.  Myth.)  Spirits  of 
the  dead  thought  to  wander  about 
at  night,  like  ghosts,  and  to  torment 
and  frighten  the  living. 

j6£g="  Milton  Anj,^licizes  the  word  in  its 
pronunciation,  making  it  consist  of  two 
syllables  instead  of  three. 

•'  In  consecrated  earth, 
And  on  the  holy  hearth. 
The  Lars  and  Lemures  moan  with  mid- 
night plaint."         Ode  on  the  Xativitij. 

Le-nore'.  1.  The  heroine  of  a  popular 
ballad,  composed  by  Gottfried  August 
Biirger  (1748-1794),  the  German 
lyric  poet.  The  subject  of  this  ballad 
is  an  old  tradition,  which  recounts 
the  ride  of  a  spectral  lover,  who  re- 
appears to  his  mistress  after  death, 
and  carries  her  on  horseback  behind 
him,  "  a  fiction  not  less  remarkable 
for  its  extensive  geographical  dis- 
semination, than  for  its  bold  imagi- 
native character." 

4®="  Biirger  is  said  to  have  borrowed 
the  subject  of  his  poem  from  an  old  Eng- 
lish ballad  entitled  "'  The  Suffolk  Miracle, 
or  a  Itelation  of  a  Young  Man,  who,  a 
month  after  his  death,  appeared  to  liis 
sweetheart,  and  carried  her  on  horseback 
behind  him  forty  miles  in  two  hours,  and 
•was  never  seen  afterward  but  in  lier 
grave."  Blirirer,  however,  contradicted 
this  assertion,  and  declared  that  an  old 
Low  Dutch  ballad  furnished  him  with 
the  idea  of  Lenore.  The  traditions  prob- 
ably both  have  a  common  origin. 

2.  The  angelic  name  of  "  a  rare 
and  radiant  maiden  "  mentioned  in 
Poe's  mystical  ballad  entitled  "  The 
Raven." 


Le'o-na'to.  Governor  of  Messina,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Much  Ado  about 
Nothing." 

Le-on'i-dSLs  of  Modern  Greece.  A 
title  given  to  3iarco  IJozzaris,  a  Greek 
patriot,  and  an  iieroic  soldier,  who 
distinguished  himself  in  the  early 
part  of  the  modern  Grecian  War  of 
Independence,  particularly  by  a  suc- 
cessful attack  with  1200  nien  upon 
the  van  of  the  Turco-.AIbanian  arn)y, 
4000  strong,  at  Kerpenisi,  on  the 
20th  of  August,  182;i.  In  this  en- 
gagement, Bozzaris  lost  his  life. 

Le-on'i-das  We'dell  (vaMel,  68).  A 
name  given  bv  Erederick  the  threat 
to  General  C  ll.  Wedell  (1712-1782), 
an  officer  in  the  Prussian  service,  on 
account  of  his  heroic  defense  of  the 
Elbe  at  Teinitz,  on  the  19fh  of  Novem- 
ber, 1744. 

Le'o-nine.  A  servant  to  Dionyza,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Pericles." 

Le'on-noys'.  A  fabulous  countr^^, 
formerly  contiguous  to  Cornwall, 
though  it  has  long  since  disappean'd, 
and  is  said  to  be  now  more  than 
fort\' fathoms  imder  water.  It  is  oft- 
en mentioned  in  the  old  romances  of 
chivalry.  [Written  also  L  e  o  n  a  i  s, 
L  i  0  n  e  s  s  e,  L  y  o  n  n  e  s  s  e.] 

j8Gg="  The  Lyones  or  Leonnoys,  where  Sir 
Tristram  was  born  (see  Tristram,  Sir),  is 
Leonnois  in  Brittitny. 
For  Arthur,  when  none  knew  from  whence 

he  came, 
Lonjj  ere  the  people  chose  him  for  their  king, 
Roving  the  trackless  realms  lA'  Ljionuease, 
Had  found  a  glen,  gray  bowlder,  and  blncK 
tarn.  TtnnyiKtn. 

Le-on'tSs.  King  of  Sicilia,  in  Shake- 
speare's "Winter's  Tale." 

S£m"  ''  Jealousy  is  a  vice  of  the  mind, 
a  culpable  tendency  of  the  temper,  hav- 
ing certain  well-known  and  well-defined 
effects  and  concomitants,  all  of  which  are 
visible  in  Leontes,  .  .  .  such  as,  first, 
an  excitability  by  the  most  inadequate 
causes,  and  an  eagerness  to  snatch  at 
proofs ;  secondly,  a  grossness  of  concep- 
tion, and  a  disposition  to  degrade  the 
object  of  the  passion  by  sensual  fancies 
and  images  ;  thirdly,  a  sense  of  shan  e  of 
his  own  feelings,  exhibited  in  a  solitary 
moodiness  of  humor,  and  yet,  from  the 
violence  of  the  pa5sion,  forced  to  utter 
itself,  and  tlierefore  catcliing  occasions 
to  ease  tiie  mind  by  ambiguities,  equi- 
voques, by  talking  to  those  who  cannot, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxrii. 


LES 


214 


LIL 


and  who  are  known  not  to  be  able  to,  un- 
dfTstand  what  is  said  to  tlieui,  — in  t*hort, 
by  soliloquy  in  th»'  form  of  ilialogue.  and 
hence,  a  confused,  broken,  and  frag- 
mentary manner;  fourtlily,  a  dread  of 
vulj^ar  ridicule,  as  distinct  from  a  high 
sense  of  honor,  or  a  inistaken  sense  of 
duty  ;  and  lastly,  and  iuiuiediately  con- 
sequent on  tills,  a  spirit  of  selfish  vindic- 
tiveness."'  ColcritJge. 

Ij3§'bi-a.  A  name  given  by  Catullus 
(b.  B.  c.  87)  to  his  favorite  Ciodia, 
whose  praises  he  celebrates  in  a  num- 
ber of  amatory  poems. 

Le'the.  [Gr.  a^Sij,  forgetfulness.]  (  Gr. 

ij-  lioiii.  Mijlh.)      A  river  in   Hades, 

the  waters  of  which  caused  those  who 

drank   it  entirely  to  forget  the  past. 

Far  off  from  these,  a  slow  and  silent  stream, 
L'the,  the  river  of  oblivif)n,  rolls 
llcr  w  itery  labyrinth:  whereof  whoso  drinks 
Straijrhtway  his  former  sense  and  being  for- 
gets. —  _ 
Forgets  both  joy  and  grief,  pleasure  and  pain. 

Milton. 

Le'to.  [Gr.  ArjToi.]  i.U>j/h.)  The  Greek 
name  of  Latoria.     See  Latoxa. 

Xieu-eo'the-a.  [Gr.  AeuKof^cr).]  {Gr. 
<|r  Ro]ii.  Mi)tli.)  1.  A  name  given  to 
Ino,  after  she  was  received  among 
the  sea-gods.     See  Ixo. 

2.  One  of  the  Sirens.    See  Siuens. 

Le-va'nSk.  [Lat.,from  lewive^to  raise.] 
(Run.  Mi/fli.)  The  name  of  the 
goddess  that  protected  new-born  in- 
fants when  they  were  taken  up  from 
the  ground.  Kichter  used  the  name 
as  the  title  of  an  educational  work 
which  he  wrote,  and  which  has  been 
translated  into  English. 

ioeviattian    of     Literature.        An 

appellation  very  generally  conferred 
upon  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson  (1709- 
1784),  the  eminent  writer  and  critic. 

Lewis,  Monk.     See  Monk  Lewis. 

Li'ber.  {Rom.  M;ifk.)  An  old  Italian 
deity,  wlio  i)resided  over  the  cultiva- 
tion of  the  vine,  and  fertility  of  the 
tields.  By  the  later  Latin  writers, 
the  name  is  used  as  a  synonym  of 
Bicclius. 

Liberation,  "War  of.     See  War  of 

LlBKH.VTION. 

Liberator,  The.  1.  [Sp.  FA  Llhertn- 
(l)r.\  A  surname  given  by  the  Pe- 
ruvians, in  182  J,   to  Simon  Bolivar 


(1785-1831),  who  established  the  in- 
dependence of  I'eru,  and  also  of  th« 
other  Spanish  colonies  of  South 
America. 

2.  A  surname  given  to  Daniel 
O'Connell  (1775-1847),  a  celebrated 
Irish  political  agitator,  on  account  of 
his  endeavors  —  wiiich  were,  after 
all,  unsuccessful  —  to  bring  abcnit  a 
repeal  of  the  Articles  of  L'nion  be- 
tween (ireat  Britain  and  Ireland. 

JA-ke'%,     I   (20).     [Gr.  Ayeia.]     {Gr. 

Li-4e'i-a,  (  if  Ro/a.  Mijth.)  One  of  the 
Sirens ;  also,  a  nympii. 

Bv  .  .  .  fair  iiV/t'ffV  golden  comb, 
Wherewitli  she  sits  on  diamond  rocks, 
Sleeking  her  soft  alluring  locks.        Milton. 

Light-horse  Harry.  A  sobrifjuet 
popularly  conferred  upon  General 
Henry  Lee  (17o(;-1818).  a  gallant 
American  cavalry  ouicer  in  the  war 
of  the  llevolution,  in  allusion  to  his 
rapid  and  dariug  movements  in  Ijattle, 
particularly  during  the  campaign  in 
the  Carulinas. 

Lilith,  or  Lilis.  In  the  popular  be- 
lief of  the  Hebrews,  a  female  s])ecter 
in  the  shape  of  a  (inely  dressed  woman, 
who  lies  in  wait  for,  and  kills,  chil- 
dren. Tlieold  Kabbins  turned  Lilith 
into  a  wife  of  Adam,  on  whom  he 
begot  demons,  and  who  still  has  power 
to  lie  with  men,  and  to  kill  children, 
who  are  not  protected  by  amulets, 
with  which  the  Jews  of  a  yet  later 
period  supply  themselves  as  a  pro- 
tection against  her.  Burton,  in  his 
"^  Anatomy  of  Melancholy,"  tells  us. 
"  The  Talmudists  say  that  Adam  had 
a  wife  called  Lilis  before  he  married 
Eve,  and  of  her  he  begat  nothing  but 
devils."  Heber  says,  "  To  revenge 
his  deserting  her  for  an  earthly  rival, 
she  is  supposed  to  hover  roimd  the 
habitation  of  new -married  persons, 
showering  down  imprecation-^  on  their 
heads.  The  attemlants  on  the  bride 
s{)end  the  night  in  going  round  the 
house  and  uttering  loud  streams  to 
frighten  her  away."  A  counnentator 
on  Skinner's  "  Etymologicon  Lingua? 
Anglicana',"  (|uoted  in  the  "  Encyclo- 
pi^dia  Metropolitana,"  says  that  the 
English  word  htllnhij  is  derived  from 
Lilln.,  >ihi !  (Begone",  Lilith!)  In  the 
demonolog}'  of  the  Middle  Ages,  Lilis 


C@~  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  rronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations 


LTL 


215 


LIS 


■was  a  famous  witch,  and  is  introduced 
as  such  in  the  W'alpurj^is-uiylit  scene 
in  (joetiies  "  luiist." 
Jijil'li-put.  An  inuiginaiy  country 
descnl)e(l  as  peopled  by  a  very  dimin- 
utive race  ot  men,  in  Swift's  satirical 
romance  entitled  "  Travels  into  sev- 
eral Kemote  Nations  ot  the  World,  by 
Lemuel  Gulliver."  The  voyage  to 
Lilliput  is  for  the  most  part  a  satire 
on  the  manners  and  usages  of  the 
court  of  George  L 

There  is  no  end  to  the  variety  of  these  small 
missiles  of  malice  with  which  t"lie  Gullivers  of 
the  world  of  literature  are  assailed  by  tlie  Lil- 
Jiptitiaiuf  around  them.  T.  Moore. 

iJim'bo,  ('/■  Lim'bus.  [Lat.,  llmbus, 
a  border.]  A  region  supposed  b}' 
some  of  the  old  scholastic  theologians 
to  lie  on  the  edge  orcontines  of  hell. 
Here,  it  was  thought,  the  souls  of 
just  men.  not  admitted  into  heaven 
or  into  Purgator}-,  remained  to  await 
the  general  resurrection.  Such  were 
the  patriarchs  and  other  pious  an- 
cients who  died  before  the  birth  of 
Christ.  Hence,  the  limbo  was  called 
Linibus  Pdtrain.  According  to  some 
of  the  schoolmen,  there  was  also  a 
Liinhua  Puerorum,  or  Jiiffmtnn,  a 
similar  place  allotted  to  the  souls  of 
infants  dying  unbaptized.  To  these 
were  added,  in  the  popular  opinion,  a 
Linibus  Fdtuorum^or  Fools'  Paradise, 
the  receptacle  of  all  vanity  and  non- 
sense. Of  this  superstitious  belief 
Milton  has  made  use  in  his  "  Paradise 
Lost."  (See  Book  TIL  v.  440-497.) 
Dante  has  placed  his  limbo,  in  Avhich 
the  distinguished  spirits  of  antiquity 
are  confined,  in  the  outeniiost  of  the 
circles  of  his  hell. 

liimonadiere,  La  Muse.     See  Muse 

LlMONADlfeKE,  La. 

Limp.  A  Jacobite  sign  in  the  time  of 
William  TIL,  Avhich  consisted  in  the 
zealots  for  hereditary  right  limping 
al)out  at  night  and  drinking.  Those  in 
the  secret  knew  that  the  word  "  Limp" 
■was  formed  from  the  initials  of  august 
names,  and  that  the  loyalist,  when  he 
drank  his  wine  and  punch,  was  taking 
off  his  bumper  to  Zouis,  James,  iWary, 
and  the  Prince. 

Lin-dab'ri-des.  A  celebrated  heroine 
in  the  ronumce  called  "  The  Mirror  of 


Knighthood."  From  the  great  celeb- 
rity Of  this  lady,  occasioned  by  the 
popularity  of  the  ronuuice,  her  name 
was  conniionly  used  lor  a  mistress. 

I  value  Tony  Foster's  wrath  no  more  than 
a  shelled  pea-cod;  and  I  will  visit  his  Lin- 
dabrides,  ny  Saint  George,  be  he  willing  or 
nol  Sir  \y.  Scott. 

Lin'dor.  A  poetical  name  formerly  in 
use  for  a  swam  or  gallant. 

A  truce,  dear  Fergus !  spare  us  tho»e  most 
tedious  and  insipid  persons  of  all  Arcadia. 
Do  not,  for  heaven's  sake,  bring  down  Cory- 
don  and  Lindor  upon  us.  Sir  \V.  Scott. 

I  have  listened  to  3'ou  when  you  spoke  eit 
bergere,  —  nay,  my  complaisance  has  been  so 
great  as  to  answer  you  en  bergrre,  —  for  I  do 
not  think  any  thing  except  ridicule  can  come 
of  dialogues  betwixt  Lindor  and  Jeanneton. 
Sir  IT.  Scott. 

Li'nus.  [Gr.  AiVo?.]  {Gr.  ij-  Rom. 
Myth.)  1.  The  son  of  Apollo  and 
an  Argive  princess;  torn  to  pieces  by 
dogs. 

2.  The  son  of  Apollo  and  Terp- 
sichore, and  the  instructor  of  Orpheus 
and  Hercules,  the  latter  of  whom 
killed  him  by  a  blow  with  a  lyre. 

Lionesse.     See  Leon^;oys. 

Lion  of  God.  A  title  conferred  upon 
Ali  (597-600),  son  of  Abu  Taleb,  the 
uncle  of  Mahomet.  He  Avas  distin- 
guished for  his  eloquence  and  valor 
in  defense  of  Islamism. 

Lion  of  the  North.  A  title  bestowed 
upon  Gustavus  Adolphus  (1594- 
1632),  king  of  Sweden,  and  the  bul- 
wark of  the  Protestant  laith  during 
the  Thirty  Years'  War. 

That  great  leader,  captain,  and  king,  the 
Lion  or'tlie  Xort/i,  .  .  .  had  a  way  of  winning 
battles,  taking  towns,  overrunning  countries, 
and  levying  contributions,  which  made  his 
service  irresistibly  delectable  to  all  true-bred 
cavaliers  who  follow  the  noble  profession  of 
arms.  Sir  }V.  Scott. 

His  task  at  this  battle  of  Lutzen  seems  to 
have  been  a  very  easy  one,  simply  to  see  the 
Lion  of  the  Xorth  brought  down,  not  by  a 
cannon-shot,  as  is  generally  believed,  but  by 
a  traitorous  pistol-bullet.  Carlyle. 

Lion  of  the  Sea.  [Port.  Lean  do 
Mar.^  A  name  foiTnerly  given  to 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 

Lis'ma-ha'go,  Captain.  A  superan- 
nuated officer  on  half-pay,  who  fig- 
ures in  Smollett's  ''  Expedition  of 
Humphrv  Clinker  "  as  the  favored 
suitor  of  Miss  Tabitha  Bramble.  He 
is  described  as  a  hard-featured  and 
forbidding  Scotchman,  of  the    most 


and  tor  the  Reniarka  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxzii. 


LIT 


216 


LIT 


sinfjular  drcsr^  and  manners,  self-con- 
ceiti'tl,  pedantic,  rude,  and  disputa- 
tious, with  a  jealous  sense  of  honor, 
and  strong  national  pride. 

M^r  "  Lisuiahat^o  is  the  flower  of  the 
flock.  His  teuaciousuess  in  argument  is 
not  so  dehKhtful  as  the  relaxation  of  his 
logical  severity  when  he  tinds  his  fortune 
mellowing  in  the  wintry'  smiles  of  Mrs. 
Tabitha  Hrauible.  This  is  the  best-pre- 
served and  most  severe  of  all  Smolletfs 
characters.  The  resemblance  to  '  Don 
Quixote  '  is  only  just  enough  to  make  it 
interesting  to  the  critical  reader  without 
giving  oll'ense  to  any  body  else." 

Hazlilt. 

In  quotin"  these  ancient  authorities,  I  must 
not  forget  tlic  more  modern  sketch  of  a  Scot- 
tish soldier  of  the  old  fashion,  by  a  master- 
hand,  in  the  character  of  Lisniahago,  since 
the  existence  of  that  doughty  captain  alone 
must  deprive  the  present  authorof  all  claim  to 
originality.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Little,  Thomas.  A  pseudonym  —  in- 
tended as  a  playful  allusion  to  his 
diminutive  stature  —  inider  -which 
Thomas  Moore,  in  1808,  published  a 
volume  of  amator}-  poems. 

Little  Comedy.  A  name  familiarly 
given  to  Miss  Catharine  Horneck, — 
afterward  Mrs.  Bunbury,  —  an  ac- 
quaintance and  friend  of  Goldsmith. 
The  sobrifjuet  was  probably  thought 
to  be  indicative  of  her  disposition. 
She  is  described  as  being  intelligent, 
sprightly,  and  agreeable,  as  well  as 
very  beautiful. 

Little  Corporal.  [Fr.  Le  Petit  Cnpo- 
ral.'\  A  familiar  appellation  jocose- 
ly conferred  upon  (jcntral  Bonaparte, 
immediately  after  the  battle  of  Lodi 
(1796),  by'  the  soldiers  under  his 
command,  on  account  of  his  juvenile 
appearance  and  surpassing  bravery. 
Ever  afterward,  even  as  First  Consul 
and  as  emperor,  he  was  popularly 
known  by  this  honorary  and  ati'ec- 
tionate  title. 

Little  Dauphin.  [Fr.  Le  Petit  Dnu- 
pltin.]  {Fr.  IJisf.)  A  name  given 
to  the  Duke  de  Bourgogne,  eldest 
son  of  Louis  the  Dauphin  (commonly 
called  the  Great  Dauphin),  who  Avas 
the  son  of  Louis  XIV. 

Little-endians.  See  Big-endians, 
The. 

Little  England.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  Barbadoes  by  the  inhabitants. 


Little  Giant.  A  popular  sobriquet 
conferred  upon  Stephen  A.  Douglas, 
a  distinguished  American  statesman 
( 18i;J-18ul ),  in  allusion  to  the  dispar- 
ity between  his  jjhysical  and  his  in- 
tellectual proportions. 

Little  John.  A  celebrated  follower 
of  the  still  more  celebrated  English 
outlaw,  Uolun  Hood.  His  surname 
is  traditiiuially  said  to  have  been 
Nailor.     See  Kobin  Hood. 

J8~S^  •'  It  is  certain  that  another  of  the 
Sherwood  heroes  has  imprinted  his  name 
upon  our  family  nomenclature  iu  the 
shape  of  Littlejohn."  Loicer. 

In  this  our  spacious  isle,  I  think  there  is  not 

one 
But  he  hath  heard  some  talk   of  him    and 
Little  John.  Druiiton. 

A  squat,  broad,  LittJe-John  sort  of  figure, 
leaning  on  a  quarter-staff,  and  wearing  a 
jerkin,  which  .  .  .  had  once  been  of  the  Lin- 
coln gieen.  Sir  (('.  Scott, 

Little-John,  Hugh.  The  designa- 
tion given  by  Sir  Walter  Scott  to  his 
grandson,  John  Hugh  Lockhart,  to 
whom  he  addressed  the  "  Tales  of  a 
Grandfather." 

Little  Magician.  A  sobriquet  con- 
ferred upon  Martin  Van  Buren  (1782- 
1802),  President  of  the  United  States 
from  18-57  to  1841,  in  allusion  to  his 
supposed  political  sagacity  and  tal- 
ents. 

Little  Marlborough  (mawPbur-o). 
A  sobricjuet  given  to  Count  von 
Schwerin  (1G8-Ir-1757),  a  Prussian 
tield-marshal,  and  a  companion-in- 
arms of  the  Duke  of  Marlborough. 

The  Little  Marlborough  —  so  they  call  him 
(for  he  was  at  Blenheim,  and  has  abrupt,  hot 
ways)— will  not  participate  iu  Prince  Karl's 
consolatory  visit,  then!  Curlyle. 

Little  Master.  A  title  given  to  Hans 
Sel)ald  Beham,  a  very  celebrated 
painter  and  engraver  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  on  account  of  the  extreme 
smallness  of  his  prints.  The  name 
was  also  given  to  other  artists  of  the 
same  century. 

Little  Nell.  A  child,  in  Dickens's 
novel  of  "  The  Old  Curiosity  Shop;  " 
distinguished  for  the  celestial  purity 
of  her  character,  though  living  amid 
scenes  of  seltishness  and  shame,  of 
passion  and  crime. 

Little  Paris.  A  name  given  to  the 
city  of  ^Nlilan,  in   Italy,  from  its  re- 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  Mrith   the   accompanying  Explanation^ 


LIT 


217 


LOG 


semblance,  in  point  of  gayety,  to  the 
French  capital. 

Little  Parliament.  The  same  as 
Biirtbone's  P<irli'iinent.  See  Bare- 
hone's  Pauliament. 

Little  Ped'dling-t6n.  An  imagina- 
ry locality  in  which  hunibug,  quack- 
ery, cant^  puffery,  ati'ectation,  unmit- 
igated selfishness,  and  other  social 
vices  abound,  it  is  described  in  a 
work  of  the  same  name,  written  by 
John  Poole, —  a  good-natured  and 
amusing  satire  on  the  present  condi- 
tion of  literature,  art,  criticism,  and 
social  intercourse. 

The  wouUl-be  founder  of  a  ftreat  slave  em- 
pire J  Jefferson  Davit-]  eoiild  now  liardly  lead 
the  uebUes  o^  Little  I'eddUngtoa. 

Boston  Evening  I'raiufcript,  May  1,  I860. 

Little  Queen.  A  sobriquet  given  to 
Isabella  of  Valois  (1387-UIO),  who 
married  Richard  II.,  king  of  Eng- 
land, when  but  eight  years  old,  and 
was  left  a  widow  when  but  thirteen. 

Little  Red  Riding-hood.  [Fr.  Cha- 
peron Rouf/e,  Ger.  Rot/ikappchen.] 
The  heroine  of  a  Avell-known  nursery 
tale,  which  relates  her  encounter  wMth 
a  wolf  in  a  forest,  the  arts  by  which 
he  deceived  her,  and  her  tragical 
end.  (irimm  derives  the  story  from 
a  tradition  current  in  the  region  bor- 
dering upon  the  river  Main,  in  Ger- 
many, i'he  legend  is,  however, 
widely  disseminated.  In  the  Swed- 
ish variation  of  the  story.  Little  Rid- 
ing-hood takes  refuge  in  a  tree,  the 
wolf  meanwhile  gnawing  away  at 
the  roots,  when  her  lover,  alarmed 
by  her  cries,  comes  up  just  "in  time 
to  see  the  tree  fall  and  his  mistress 
crushed  beneath  it. 

No  man,  whatever  his  sensibility  may  be, 
is  ever  affected  by  "  Hamlet  "  or  "  Lear  '^  as  a 
little  girl  is  affected  by  the  story  of  poor  Red 
Riding-hood.  Macaulai/. 

Little  Rhody.     See  Rhody,  Little. 

Little  "Whig.  A  sobriquet  given  to 
Anne,  Countess  of  Sunderland,  sec- 
ond daughter  of  the  great  Duke  of 
Marlborough.  She  is  described  as 
" rather /;e/i/e  in  person;"  and  it  is 
said  that  she  "  did  not  disdain  the 
appellation  conferred  upon  her,  at  a 
time  when  every  thing  bore  the  en- 
signs of  partv  of  one  kind  or  other." 
She  died  Apfil  15,  1716. 


Loathly  Lady.  A  hideous  creature 
whom  Sir  Gawain  takes  to  be  his 
wife,  when  no  one  else  would  have 
her,  and  who  becomes  a  beautiful 
wonuin  on  tlie  moment  of  being  mar- 
ried to  him,  having  previously  Ijeen 
under  the  power  of  a  nuilignant  en- 
chanter. The  story  forms  the  sub- 
ject of  an  old  ballad  entitled  "  The 
Marriage  of  Sir  Gawain,"  and  occurs 
under  other  forms  in  our  early  litera- 
ture.    See  Gawain,  Sik. 

The  walls  of  tlie  apartment  were  partly 
clothed  with  grim  old  tapestrj'  representing 
the  memorable  story  of  Sir  (iawain's  wedding, 
in  which  full  justice  was  done  to  the  ugliness 
of  the  Louthlij  Ladij  ;  although,  to  judge  from 
his  own  looks,  the  gentle  knight  had  less 
reason  to  be  disgusted  with  the  match  on  ac- 
count of  disparity  of  outward  favor  than  the 
romancer  has  given  us  to  understand 

^ir  IF.  Scott. 

Lo-chi'el.  Sir  Evan  Cameron  (d. 
1719),  of  Lochiel,  surnamed  ''The 
Black,"  the  ruler  of  the  Camerons, 
who  in  personal  qualities  has  been 
described  as  unrivaled  among  the 
Celtic  princes ;  "  a  gracious  master, 
a  trusty  ally,  a  terrible  enemy."  He 
figured  largely  in  the  wars  of  the 
Highlands,  but  ultimately  took  the 
oaths  to  the  government  of  Wdliam 
III.  His  grandson,  Donald  Cameron 
(d.  1748),  was  sometimes  called  "The 
Gentle    Lochiel." 

LochieJ,  Lochiel,  beware  of  the  day 
When  the  Lowlands  shall  meet  thee  in  battle- 
array.  Cuinphcll. 

Loch'in-var'.  The  hero  of  a  ballad 
by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  sung  by  the  fair 
Lady  Heron,  in  "  Marmion."  Ap- 
pearing suddenly  at  Netherby  Hall, 
where  his  sweetheart  is  to  be  sacri- 
ficed in  marriage  to 

"  a  laggard  in  love,  and  a  dastard  in  war," 

he  persuades  her  to  join  wnth  him  in 
one  last  dance,  and,  on  reaching  the 
hall-door,  where  his  horse  is  standing, 
whispers  in  her  ear,  swings  her  to 
the  croup,  and,  springing  into  the 
saddle,  carries  her  off  before  the 
eyes  of  the  astonished  bridegroom 
and  his  friends,  who  pursue  them 
without  success. 

And  so  I  come. — like  ZocAtrai'or,  to  tread  a 

single  measure. 
To  purchase  with  a  loaf  of  bread  a  sugar-plunn 

of  pleasure.  Holmes. 

Lock 'it.    A  character  in  Gay's  "  Beg- 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


LOG 


218 


LON 


ear's  Opera."  The  quarrel  between 
Feachiiin  and  Luckit  was  an  allu- 
sion to  a  personal  collision  between 
>\'alpole  and  his  colleague,  Lord 
Townshend.     See  Pkachl'.m. 


th 


Wlieii  you  petred  at  tlie  iiii>ty  prisoner  in 
e  clock.'you  were  always  reiiiinucd  ot'Cap- 


biin  Maclicath  in  his  cell,  when  the  iiihunum 
Mr.  Lockit  wouldn't  allow  him  any  more 
candles,  and  threatened  to  clap  on  extra  fet- 
ters in  default  of  an  immediate  supply  on  the 
captain's  part  of  "  garnish, "  or  jail-fees.    Sala. 

Locks'ley.  An  outlawed  archer,  in 
Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of  "  Ivan- 
hoe."  Under  this  name  the  author 
has  represented  Kobin  Hood,  who, 
according  to  ballad  authority,  some- 
times assumed  it  when  in  disguise. 
It  is  said  to  have  been  the  name  of 
the  village  Avliere  he  was  born. 

Lo'co-Fo'cos  A  nickname  fonnerly 
given  to  adherents  of  the  Democratic 
party  in  the  United  States.  It  origi- 
nated in  183-4,  from  an  incident  that 
occurred  at  a  meeting  in  Tammany 
Hall,  New  York.  There  being  a 
great  diversity  of  sentiment  among 
tho-^e  wiio  were  present,  a  scene  of 
confusion  and  tumult  took  place, 
during  which  the  chairman  left  his 
sesit,  and  the  gas-lights  were  extin- 
guished, with  a  view  to  break  up  the 
meeting  But  the  opposite  faction 
produced  loco-foco  matches  and  can- 
dles, relighted  the  hall,  continued  the 
meeting,  and  accomplished  their  ob- 
ject. 

Lo-erine'.  A  son  of  Brutus,  a  fabu- 
lous king  of  ancient  Britain.  By  his 
father's  death,  he  became  king  of 
Loegria,  or  England.     See  S.\brixa. 

Lod'o-vi'co.  A  Venetian,  kinsman 
to  Brabantio,  in  Shakespeare's  trag- 
edy of  "  Othello." 

Lce'gri-a  (le'gri-a).  In  the  romances 
of  chivalry,  and  among  the  fabulous 
historians,  an  old  name  for  the  part 
of  Britain  occupied  by  the  Saxons. 
It  is  said  to  be  of  Welsh  origin. 

Lo'eris-tilla.  A  fairy  in  Ariosto's 
"  Orlando  Furioso ;  "  a  sister  of  Alcina 
and  Morgana.  She  teaches  Ruggiero 
how  to  master  the  hippogritf,  and 
gives  Astolpho  a  book  and  a  horn  of 
"wonderful  power. 

Lo'gres.     Another  form  of  Loegria,,  an 


old  name  for  England,  in  the  romances 
of  chivalry.   [Written  also  Logris.J 

Fairer  than  fei;;ned  of  old,  or  fahled  since, 

Of  fairy  damnels.  met  in  Ibiest  wide 

Uy  kni>;hts  of  Loijii-.x  or  of  Lyones.    Milton. 

XiOki  (lo'kee).  [Old  Norse  Ivcht.,  to 
tempt. J  (Saind.  Myth.)  A  sort  of 
Eddaic  Satan;  a  demigod  descended 
from  the  Giants,  but  admitted  among 
the  gods,  mingling  freely  with  the  m 
as  an  associate  and  etjual,  yet  essen- 
tially opposed  to  them,  being  full  o  " 
all  manner  of  guile  and  artitice.  and 
otten  bringing  them  into  perilous 
plights,  from  which  however,  he 
again  extricates  them  by  his  cun- 
ning. He  treacherously  contrived  the 
death  of  Baldur  (see  Baldl'k),  and 
was,  in  consequence,  made  to  sutler 
the  most  terrible  punishment,  being 
bound  with  the  intestines  of  his  sons 
to  a  sharp  subterranean  rock,  Avhere 
two  enormous  serpents  continually 
drop  torturing  venom  on  his  limbs. 
His  personal  appearance  is  descril)ed 
as  very  beautiful.  He  is  often  called 
Asn-Loki,  to  distinguish  him  from  his 
kinsman,  Uttinvfl-Loki ;  but  the  two 
are  sometimes  confounded.  See  Ut- 
GARD-LoKi.  [Written  also  Lok, 
L  o  k  e.] 

Lolli-us.  A  mysterious  author  often 
referred  to  by  the  writers  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages;  but  so  vain  have  been  the 
attempts  to  discover  and  identify  him, 
that  he  must  be  regarded  as  the  if/nia- 
J'atmis  of  antiquaries.  "  Of  Lollius." 
says  one  of  these  unhappy  and  baffled 
investigators,  "  it  will  become  every 
one  to  speak  with  deference."  Ac- 
cording to  Coleridge,  "  Lollius,  if 
a  writer  of  that  name  existed  at  all, 
was  a  somewhat  somewhere."  Dry- 
den  calls  him  "  a  Lombard." 

Lone-Star  State.  The  State  of 
Texas ;  —  so  called  from  the  device 
on  its  coat  of  arms. 

Long,  Tom.  The  hero  of  an  old 
popular  tale  entitled  "  The  Merry 
Conceits  of  Tom  Long,  the  Carrier, 
being  many  pleasant  Passages  and 
mad  Pranks  which  he  observed  in 
his  travels.  " 

Lon'ga-ville.  A  lord  attending  on 
the  king  of  Navarre,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Love's  Labor 's  Lost." 


03*  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


LON 


219 


LOR 


Lon'gl-us.  A  name  piven  in  the 
Middlf  Afijes  to  the  knight,  or  sciklier, 
who  pien-cd  the  side  of  the  Saviour 
with  ids  t^\vord,  to  ascertain  il'he  were 
dead. 

Long  Meg  of  Westminster.  A 
"  lusty,  bouncing  romp "  and  pro- 
curess of  tile  sixteenth  century,  whose 
"  Life  and  i'ranies"  were  ''imprinted 
at  London,"  in  1582,  and  subse- 
quently. IShe  is  often  alluded  to  by 
the  older  English  writers. 

Long  Parliament.  ( F.n(j.  Hist. ) 
The  name  which  is  commonly  used 
by  historians  to  designate  the  cele- 
brated parliament  which  assembled 
Kovcmber  3, 1G40,  and  was  dissolved 
by  Cromwell,  April  20,  lfi53. 

Long  Peter.  [D.  Luncfe  Peter,  It. 
Pitirt)  J^unf/o,  Fr.  J^<iii</  Pierre.]  A 
sobricjuet  given  to  the  eminent  Flem- 
ish painter,  Peter  Aartsen  (1507- 
1573),  on  account  of  his  tallness. 

Long  Scribe.  A  sobriquet  given  to 
Vincent  Dowling  (d.  1852),  an  em- 
inent British  ^])<)rtsman,  and  an  in- 
fallible authority  (  n  all  matters  con- 
nected Avith  field  or  other  sports.  He 
was  remarkable  for  his  great  height. 

Long   Tom  CofiBn.     A  character  in 

Cooper's  novel,  "•  The  Pilot ;  "  ''  prob- 
ably the  most  widely  known  sailor 
character  in  existence.  He  is  an 
example  of  the  hei-oic  in  action,  like 
Leatherstocking.  losing  not  a  whit  of 
his  individuality  in  his  nobleness  of 
soul." 

I.onp  Tom  Coffin  himself  will  be  for  fetching 
me.  with  a  shroud  in  one  hand,  and  a  dead- 
light in  the  other.  Hood. 

Lor-brul'grud.  The  metropolis  of 
the  imaginary  country  of  Brobding- 
nai;,  visited  by  Gulliver.  The  word 
is  humorously  said  to  mean,  "  Pride 
of  the  l^^niverse." 

Lord  BSi'chan.  The  title  of  an  old 
ballad  of  which  there  are  many 
versions,  Scottish  and  English,  and 
the  name  given  to  the  hero,  who  is 
said  to  have  been  Gilbert  Becket, 
father  of  the  renowned  St.  Thomas 
of  Canterbury.  [Called  also  Lurd 
Bdtevvtn.] 

Lord  Burleigh  (bur'li).  The  name 
of  a  character  in  Mr.  Puffs  tragedy 


of  the  "  Spanish  Annada,"  in  Sheri- 
dan's farce  of  "  The  Critic."  He 
says  nothing,  being  a  miidster  "Avitli 
the  whole  aiiairs  ui  tlie  nation  on  his 
head,"  and  therefore  having  no  time 
to  talk ;  but  he  comes  torward  upon 
the  stage,  and  shakes  his  head  ex- 
travagantly, —  an  action  which  is 
thus  explained  by  Mr.  Pufi:  "By 
that  shake  of  the  head,  he  gave  you 
to  understand,  that,  even  though  they 
had  more  justice  in  their  cause,  and 
wisdom  in  their  measures,  yet,  if 
there  was  not  a  greater  spirit  shown 
on  the  ])art  of  the  people,  the  country 
would  at  last  fall  a  sacrifice  to  the 
hostile  ambition  of  the  Spanish  mon- 
archy." 

If  her  looks  express  nil  this,  my  dear  Tinto, 
replied  I,  interruplin;;;  hiui,  your  peiieil  rivals 
the  dramatic  art  of  Mr.  Puff,  who  crammed  a 
whole  complicated  sentence  into  the  exjires- 
sive  shake  ot  Lord  Burleigh's  head. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

There  are  no  such  soliloquies  in  nature,  it 
is  true;  hut,  unless  they  were  received  as  a 
conventioiuil  medium  of  communication  be- 
twixt the  poet  and  the  aiulienee,  we  should 
reduce  dramatic  authors  to  the  recipe  of  Mas- 
ter PufF,  who  makes  Lord  J:vrlei<ih  intimate  a 
long  train  of  political  reasoning  to  the  audi- 
ence, by  one  comprehensive  shake  of  his  ncjd- 
dle.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

The  Provost  answered  with  another  sfiga . 
cious  shake  <  f  the  hend,  that  would  have  dono 
honor  to  Lord  Lur lei gk-  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Lord  Panny.  A  sobriquet  conferred 
upon  Lord  Hervey,  a  foppi.^h  and 
effeminate  English  nobleman  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  He  Avas  in  the 
habit  of  painting  his  i'ace  to  conceal 
its  ghastly  paleness.     See  Spokis. 

J^S"  "  The  modern  J^««?»7/ is  apparently 
of  the  days  of  Ani;e.  coniinj?  into  notice 
with  the  beautiful  Lady  Fanny  Shirley, 
who  made  it  a  great  favorite,  ;ind  almost 
a  proverb  for  prettii  ess  and  simplicity, 
so  that  the  wits  of  George  II. "s  time  called 
•lohn.  Lord  Hervey,  '  Lord  Fanny,'  for 
his  effeminacy."  Yoiige. 

Rake  from  each  ancient  dunghill  every  pearl. 
Consult  Lord  Fanuy  and  contide  in  Curll. 

Bi/ron. 

Lord  Foppington.  See  Foppixgtox, 

Lord. 
Lord  Gawkey.    A   nickname  giA-en 

to  Richard   Gren\nl!e,  Lord   Temple 

(1711-1770),  in   the  pasquinades  of 

his  time. 

Lord  Harry.  X  A'ulgar  name  for  the 
Devil.     See  Old  Hakkv. 


tnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


LOR 


220 


LOV 


By  the  Lord  Ifnrrti,  he  says  true;  fighting 
it  meat,  drink,  and  cloth  to  hliii.        Coiiyrtic. 

Lord  Lov'el.  Tlie  hero  of  an  am-ient 
and  wull-kiiowii  Scotti.-li  Ijallad. 

Lord  of  Crazy  Castle.  A  sol)rir|uet 
of  .John  Hall  Slcvun>on  ( 1718-178.J), 
author  of  some  clever,  but  licentious 
poems,  called  "  Crazy  Tales."  His 
residence  was  at  Skelton  Castle,  — 
nicknamed  "  Crazy  Castle,  "  —  an 
ancient  and  ruinous  mansion  near 
Guisborough. 

His  1  Sterne's]  conversation  was  animated 
and  wittv,  but  Johnson  complained  that  it 
was  murked  by  license  better  suiting  the 
company  of  the"  Lord  of  Crazy  Castle  than  of 
the  Great  .Moralist.  ^'(V  IV.  Scott. 

Lord  of  the  Isles,  A  title  assumed 
by  Dduald,  a  chief  of  Islay,  who,  in 
1.346,  reduced  the  whole  of  the  Hebri- 
des or  Western  Isles  under  his  author- 
ity. It  was  also  borne  by  his  succes- 
sors, the  last  of  whom  died  in  1536. 

Lord  Ogleby.     See  Oglehy,  Lord. 

Lord  Peter.  A  humorous  designation 
of  the  Pope  in  Arbuthnot's  "  History 
of  John  Bull." 

Lords  of  Little  Egypt.  A  title 
assumed  by  the  leaders  or  chiefs  of 
a  horde  of  gypsies,  who  entered  Hun- 
gary and  Bohemia  fi"om  the  East, 
giving  themselves  out  as  Christian 
pilgrims. 

Of  the  kingly  demeanor  and  personal 
achievements  of  old  Will  Fow  [a  gypsy  chief 
in  Scotland],  many  curious  particulars  are 
related.  He  never  forgot  his  high  descent 
from  the  Lords  of  Little  Egypt. 

Blackv:ood''s  Mag. 

Lord  Strutt.  Charles  II.  of  Spain  ; 
—  so  called  in  Arbuthnot's  satire  en- 
titled ''  The  History-  of  John  Bull." 

Every  body  must  remember  .  .  .  the  par- 
oxysm of  rage  into  which  poor  old  Lord  Stnitt 
fell,  on  hearing  that  his  runaway  servant 
Nick  Frog,  his  clothier  John  Bull,  and  his  old 
enemy  Lewis  Baboon,  had  come  with  quad- 
rants, poles,  and  ink-horns  to  survey  his 
estate,  and  to  draw  his  will  for  him. 

Macmdap. 

Lo-ren'zo.  1.  A  young  man  in  love 
with  .Jessica,  Shy'lock's  daughter,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Merchant  of  Venice." 
2.  The  name  of  a  character  in 
Young's  "  Night  Thoughts,"  repre- 
sented as  a  person  of  a  thoroughly 
debauched  and  reprobate  life,  and  by 
some  supposed  to  be  the  portrait  oV 
the   poet's    own    son,    but   probably  i 


nothing  more  than  an  embodiment 
of  imaginary  atlieism  and  unavailing 
remorse  and  despair. 

Lor're-quer,  Harry.  The  hero  of  a 
novel  of  the  same  name  by  Charles 
James  Lever  (b.  1800);  also,  a  pseu- 
donym of  the  author. 

Lo-san'ti-ville.   [That  is,  Z,,  the  river 

Licking,  m  (Lat.),  the  mouth,  ^'«//, 
opposite  to,  vide,  a  town  or  city:  the 
town  opposite  the  mouth  of  the  Lick- 
ing.] The  original  name  of  the  city 
of  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Lo-tha'ri-o  (0).  One  of  the  drnnuifis 
personce  in  liowe's  tragedy,  ''  The 
Fair  Penitent."  His  cliaracter  is 
that  of  a  libertine  and  a  seducer,  and 
has  served  as  the  prototype  of  that 
of  many  dramatic  and  romance  he- 
roes. 

Is  this  that  haughty  gallant,  gay  Lothario  ? 

Liowe. 

Shorn  of  their  plumes,  our  moon-struck  son- 
neteers 

Would  seem  but  jackdaws  croaking  to  the 
spheres; 

Our  gay  Lothariox,  with  their  Byron  curls. 

Would  pine  like  oysters  cheated  of  their 
pearls.  Holmes. 

Lovel,  Lord.     See  Lord  Lovel. 

Love'lace.  The  hero  of  Richardson's 
novel,  "  The  History  of  Clarissa 
Harlowe,"  represented  as  an  unscru- 
pulous volu]3tuary,  who  has  devoted 
his  life  and  his  talents  to  the  subver- 
sion of  female  virtue.  He  is,  perhaps, 
the  most  finished  picture  of  a  self- 
possessed  and  insinuating  libertine 
ever  drawn.  The  character  is  an 
expansion  of  that  of  Lothario  in 
Rowe's  "  Fair  Penitent."  See  Har- 
lowe, Claiussa. 

The  eternal  laws  of  poetry  regained  their 
power,  and  the  temporary  fas'hions  which  had 
superseded  those  liws  went  after  the  wig  of 
Lovelace  and  the  hoop  of  Clarissa. 

Macaulay. 

Lover's  Leap.  The  promontory  from 
which  .Sappho  is  said  to  have  thrown 
herself  into  the  sea;  Leucate.  on  the 
south-western  extremity  of  Leucas, 
now  Santa  Maura. 

Lovers'  "War.  \Yr.  Grierredes  Amry^t- 
reiLc.]  (Fr.  Ifi.-tf.)  A  name  given 
to  a  civil  war  in  the  year  1580,  during 
the  reign  of  Henry  V.  It  was  so 
called  because  it  arose  from  the  jeal- 


CgS"  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanations, 


LOW 


221 


LUD 


Ousies  and  rivalries  of  the  leaders, 
who  were  invited  to  meet  at  tiie  palace 
of  the  queen-mother. 

Low-heels.     8ee  High-heels. 

Loys,  Le  Capitaine.     See  Captain 

LoYS. 

Ijreux(lroo).  King  Arthur's  seneschal, 
introduced  in  romances  of  the  Hound 
Table,  and  always  rej)resented  as  a 
detractor,  a  coward,  and  a  boaster. 

Lubberland.  The  same  as  Cockttf/ne, 
for  which  name  it  was  substituted  by 
the  English  ])oets  of  tlie  sixteenth 
century.  Hence,  also,  a  burles(jue 
name   anciently  applied  to  London. 

See  CoCKAGNE. 

But  the  idea  wliicli  Sieves  entertained  of 
lodging  the  executive  government  in  a  Grand 
Elector,  who  was  to  be  ii  very  model  of  a  king 
oi Lubberland,  was  the  ruin  of  his  plan. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 
Black  Forests  and  the  ^Xorxcsof  Lubherlami, 
sensuality  and  horror,  the  specter-nun   and 
charmed  moonshine,  shall  not  be  wanting 

Curlyle. 

Lu-cas'tS.  A  poetical  name  under 
which  liichard  Lovelace  (I(;i8-lfi58) 
celebrated  the  praises  of  '•  the  lady 
of  his  love,"  whom  he  usually  called 
Lux  Cdstfi.  Antony  Wood  saj^s  that 
she  was  "  a  gentlewoman  of  great 
beauty  and  fortune,  named  Lucy 
SacheVerell ;  "  but  W.  C.  Hazhtt,  the 
latest  editor  of  Lovelace's  works 
(London,  18G4),  thinks  the  statement 
"  may  reasonably  be  doubted." 

Luce.  Servant  to  Adriana,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Comedy  of  Errors." 

Lu-cen'ti-o.  Son  to  Vincentio,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew." 

Lu-cet'ta.  The  name  of  a  waiting- 
woman  to  Julia,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona." 

Lu'ci-a'na.  Sister-in-law  to  Antiph- 
olus  of  Ephesus,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Comedy  of  En'ors." 

Lu'ei-fer.  One  of  the  names  of  the 
Devil,  being  applied  to  him  from 
an  allegorical  interpretation  by  the 
Church  fathers  of  a  passage  in  hnlnh 
(xiv.  12),  in  which  the  king  of  Baby- 
lon is  likened  to  the  morning  star. 
Wierus  makes  him  the  highest  officer 
of  justice  h\  the  infernal  court  or 
empire. 


JSSS^  "Lucifer  is,  in  fact,  no  profane  or 
Satanic  title,  it  is  the  Latin  Litcijinis^ 
the  lii^.it- briiij^er,  the  uiorninj^  star, 
t»(iuivalent  to  the  Greek  (|)aja-(|)opos,  and 
was  a  Christian  name  in  early  times,  borne 
even  by  one  of  the  popes.  It  only  ac- 
quired its  present  association  from  the 
apostrophe  of  the  ruined  king  of  Bab- 
ylon, in  Isaiah,  as  a  fallen  star:  'How 
art  thou  fallen  from  heaven,  0  Lucifer, 
son  of  the  morning!'  Thence,  as  this 
destruction  was  assuredly  a  type  of  the 
fall  of  Satan,  Milton  took  Luciter  as  the 
title  of  his  demon  of  pride,  atid  tliis  name 
of  the  pure,  pale  herald  of  daylight  has 
become  hateful  to  Christian  ears." 

Yonge. 
Lu-ci'na.     [Lat.,  from  Jux,  light,  be- 
cause  she   brings   to  light.]     {Rom. 
Mytli.)     The  goddess  of  childbirth,  a 
daughter  of  Jupiter  and  Juno. 

Lu'ci-o.  A  fantastic,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy,  "Measure  for  Measure," 
who,  Avithout  being  absolutely  de- 
praved or  intentionally  bad,  has  be- 
come, through  want  of  consideration, 
both  vicious  and  dissolute. 

The    Introductory   Epistle   is    written,    in 

Lucio^s  phrase,  "according  to  the  trick,"  and 

would  never  have  appeared  had  the  writer 

meditated  making  his  avowal  of  the  work. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Mr.  Hunt  treats  the  whole  matter  a  little  too 
much  in  the  easy  style  of  Lucio.       JIucaulay. 

Lud.  A  mythic  king  of  Britain,  said 
to  have  given  his  name  to  London. 

The  famous  Cassibelan,  who  was  once  at  point 
(O  giglot  Fortune)  to  Master  Cajsar's  sword, 
Made  Lu'Vs  town  with  rejoicing  bright, 
And  Britons  strut  with  courage.  Sliak. 

Lud,  GeneraL  A  name  of  great 
terror  given  to  the  feigned  leader  of 
bands  of  distressed  and  riotous  arti- 
sans in  the  mamifacturing  districts  of 
England,  who,  in  18U,  endeavored 
to  prevent  the  introduction  of  power- 
looms,  —  that  is,  looms  worked  by 
machinery,  —  which  they  thought 
would  lessen  the  amount  of  manual 
labor.  In  1816,  they  re-appeared,  but 
were  put  down,  after  a  short  and 
shai^p  riot  in  London,  by  the  police 
and  military.  The  real  leaders  ap- 
peared in  women's  clothes,  and  were 
called  "  Lud's  wives." 

4fg=  "  Above  thirty  years  before  this 
time  [1811],  an  imbecile  named  Ned  Lnd, 
living  in  a  village  in  Leicestershire,  waa 
tormented  by  the  boys  in  the  streets,  to 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  nmiiberg  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


LUD 


222 


LUZ 


his  perpetual  irritation.  One  daj',  in  a 
great  passion,  l>e  puisucd  one  of  the  boys 
into  a  house,  auiJ,  beiii)^  uiiaiiU;  to  find 
hiui,  lie  broke  two  stocking-frames,  ilis 
name  wjus  now  eitlier  taken  by  those  who 
broke  frames,  or  was  given  to  them.  When 
frauie.s  were  broken,  Lud  liad  been  tliere  ; 
and  tlie  abettors  were  called  Luddite.'i." 
H    Marti neau. 

liudwig  der  Springer  (UKit'vik  def 
spring'cr).  [(ier.,  Louis  the  leaper.] 
A  name  popularly  given  in  Germany 
to  a  margrave  of  Tiiuringia,  bora 
in  1042.  There  is  a  tradition  of  his 
having  become  attaciied  to  the  Pals- 
gravine  Adelheid  ot'  Saxony,  wliose 
husband,  Frederick  HI.,  he  killed,  and 
then  married  her.  For  this  he  was 
imprisoned  in  the  castle  of  Giebich- 
enstein,  near  Halle,  and  escaped  by 
a  bold  leap  into  the  Saale. 

One  of  their  sisters,  too,  Tsistcrs  of  the  mar- 
graves of  UrandfiiburK  in  tne  eleventh  centu- 
rv,]  had  a  stranj;v  adventure  with  "Litdirlg 
the  Sjiniignr"  —  romantic,  mythic  man,  fa- 
mous in  the  German  world,  over  wlicni  my 
readers  and  I  must  not  pause  at  this  tiine. 

Oirbjle. 

liUgg'nagg.  The  name  of  an  imagi- 
nary island  about  a  hundred  leagues 
south-east  of  Japan,  mentioned  in 
Swift's  lictitious  "  Travels"  of  Lem- 
uel Gulliver.  In  the  account  of  this 
country  and  its  inhabitants,  we  are 
shown  how  miserable  woidd  be  the 
consequence  of  human  beings'  re- 
ceiving a  privilege  of  eternal  life, 
imaccom]«inie(l  l)y  corresponding- 
health,  strength,  and  intellect. 

liUmber  State.  A  popular  designa- 
tion for  the  State  of  Maine,  the  inhab- 
itants of  which  are  largely  engaged 
in  the  business  of  cutting  and  raff- 
ing lumber,  or  of  converting  it  into 
boards,  shingles,  scantlings,  and  the 
hke. 

liUrapTcin,  Tony.  A  young,  clown- 
ish country  squire,  the  foolish  son  of 
a  foolish  mother,  in  Goldsmith's  com- 
edy, "  She  Stoops  to  Conquer." 

ffJr"  "  He  i.s  in  his  own  sex  what  a  hoi- 
den  is  in  the  other.  lie  is  that  vulgar 
iiiekname,  a  hohb''ti/liriy.  dr.amatized  ; 
forward  and  sheepish,  miseliievons  and 
idle,  cunning  and  stupid,  with  the  vices 
of  the  man  and  the  lollies  of  the  lioy  ; 
fond  of  low  company,  and  giving  him- 
pelf  all  tin*  airs  of  consequence  of  the 
young  squire."  Hazlitl. 


You  ask  me  for  the  plan.  I  have  no  plan. 
I  had  no  plan;  liut  1  liad,  or  have,  materials; 
thoujjh,  if,  like  Tonii  L^im/ikhi,  "  I  am  to  be 
pnnljl)e(l  NO  when  1  am  in  ^l)irits,"  the  poem 
will  he  naught,  and  the  poet  turn  serious 
again.  Jjijron. 

Nature  had  formed  honest  Meg  for  such  en- 
countei-s;  and  as  her  noble  soul  delighted  in 
them,  so  her  outward  properties  were  in  what 
Toiiii  Lumpkin  calls  "  a  concatenation  accord- 
ingly." Sir  \V.  Scott. 

I  feel  as  Ton;/  Lumpkin  felt,  who  never  had 
the  least  ditticultv  in  reading  the  outside  of 
his  letters,  but  who  found  it  very  hard  work 
to  decipher  the  inside.  A.  K.  H.  lioyd. 

Lun.  A  feigned  name  of  John  Rich 
(d.  1701),  a  celebrated  English  act- 
or. When  young,  he  attracted  gen- 
eral admiration  by  his  performance 
of  Harle(|uin.  and  received  frequent 
tributes  of  applause  from  contempo- 
rary critics. 

When  Lun  appeared,  with  matchless  art  and 
whim.  Gurrick. 

Lu'na.  {Rom.  Myih.)  The  goddess 
of  the  moon ;  a  name  of  Diana. 

Lu-per'cus  (4).  [Lat.,  from  lupus,  a 
wolf.]  {Rom.  Myth.)  A  god  of  the 
old  Komans,  sometimes  identified 
with  the  Grecian  P'in.  He  was 
Avorshiped  by  shepherds  as  the  pro- 
tector of  flocks  against  wolves.  His 
priests  were  called  •*  Luperci,"  and 
his  festivals  "  Lupercalia." 

Lu'sig-nan.     A  prominent   character 

in  Aaron  Hill's  tragedy  of  '•  Zara;  " 

the  "  last  of  the  blood  of  the  Christian 

kings  of  Jerusalem." 

His  head,  which  was  a  fine  one,  bore  pome 
resemblance  to  that  of  Garrick  in  the  charac- 
ter of  Liisi(//ain.  Sir  IF.  Scott. 

Lu'si-ta'ni-a.  The  ancient  Latin 
name  of  Portugal  ;  often  used  in 
modern  poetry. 

Woe  to  the  conquering,  not  the  conquered, 

host. 
Since  baffled  Triumph  droops  on  Lxsitrrnifi's 

coast.  iji/ruit. 

Lu'sus.  A  mythical  hero,  fabled  to 
have  visited' Portugal  in  company 
with  Ulysses,  and  to  have  founded 
Lisbon  under  the  name  of  Ulyssop- 
olis. 

Lu-te'ti-a  (-te'shi-S).  The  ancient 
Latin  name  of  Paris. 

Luz.  A  name  given  by  the  old  Jewish 
Kabbins  to  an  imaginary  little  bone 
which  they  believed  to  "exist  at  the 
base  of  the  spinal  column,  and  to  be 


taS"  For  the  "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


LYC 


223 


LYS 


incapable  of  destruction.  To  its  ever- 
living  power,  t'tnnented  by  a  kind  of 
dew  troni  heaven,  they  ascribed  the 
resurrection  of  the  dead. 

4^=-  "  Hadrian  (whose  bones  may  they 
be  ground,  and  hi-<  name  blotted  out  I) 
asked  R.  Joshua  Ben  llananiah,  '  IIow 
doth  a  man  revive  again  in  the  world 
to  come  ?  '  He  answered  and  said,  •  From 
Liiz,  in  the  backbone.'  Saith  he  to  him, 
'  Demonstr.ite  this  to  me.'  Then  he  took 
Luz,  a  little  bone  out  of  the  backbone, 
and  i-iuf;  it  in  water,  and  it  was  not 
steeped  ;  he  put  it  in  the  fire,  and  it  was 
not  burned  ;  be  brought  it  to  the  mill, 
and  that  could  not  grind  it ;  he  laid  it 
on  tile  anvil,  and  knocked  it  with  a  ham- 
mer, but  the  anvil  was  cleft,  and  the 
hammer  broken."  Ligktfuot. 

Ly-ca'on.  [Gr.  Au/caioi/.]  (  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  king  of  Arcadia  whom 
Juno  turned  into  a  wolf  because  he 
detiled  his  altar  with  human  sacri- 
fices.    He  was  tlie  father  of  CaUisto. 

Ly-chor'i-da.  A  nurse,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Pericles." 

Ijy9'i-d.§,s.  1.  A  shepherd  in  the  third 
Eclogue  of  Virgil. 

2.  A  poetical  name  inider  which 
Milton,  in  a  celebrated  monody,  be- 
wails the  death  of  his  friend  Edward 
King,  fellow  of  Christ  College,  Cam- 
bridge, who  was  drowned  on  his  pas- 
sage from  Chester  to  Ireland,  August 
10,  1637. 

Lyc'o-me'des.  [Gr.  AuKoiarjSrj?.]  (  Gr. 
cf  Rom.  Jft/t/i.)  A  king  of  the  island 
of  Scyros,  with  whom  Achilles  con- 
cealed himself  for  some  time,  dis- 
guised in  female  apparel,  to  avoid 
going  to  the  Trojan  war. 

Ly'cus.  [Gr.  Au'/co?.]  {Gi\  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  king  of  Thebes,  in  Bceoria, 
and  the  husband  of  Antiope,  whom 
he  divorced  because  she  was  pregnant 
by  .Jupiter.  He  then  married  Dirce, 
who  treated  Antiope  with  great  cru- 
elty; but  the  children  of  tlie  latter, 
when  they  were  grown  up,  avenged 
their  mother  on  both  Dirce  and 
Lycus.     See  Dikce. 

Lying  Dick.  See  Talbot,  Lying 
Dick. 

Lyn'ceus.  [Gr.  Av-y/cevs-]  (  Gr.  c/  Rom. 


Myfh.)  1.  One  of  the  Argonauts, 
famed  for  the  sharpness  of  his  sight. 
2.  A  son  of  ^Egyptus,  and  the 
husband  of  Hypermnestra.  See 
Danaides. 

Lynch,  Judge.  In  America,  a  per- 
sonitieatiun  of  violent  and  illegal 
justice,  or  of  mob-law.  The  name  is 
usually  alleged  to  be  derived  from 
one  Lynch,  who  lived  in  what  is  now 
the  Liedmunt  district  of  Virginia  at 
the  time  when  that  district  was  the 
western  frontier  of  the  State,  and 
Avhen,  on  accc)unt  of  the  distance  from 
thf  courts  of  law,  it  was  customary 
to  rel'er  the  adjustment  of  disputes  to 
men  of  known  character  and  judg- 
ment in  the  neighboriiood.  This  man 
became  so  prominent  by  reason  of 
the  wisdom  and  impartiality  of  his 
decisions  that  he  was  known  through- 
out the  country  as  "Judge  Lynch." 
Criminals  were  brought  before  him 
to  receive  their  sentence,  which  was 
perhaps  administered  with  some  se- 
verity. At  present,  the  term  Lynch- 
law  is  synonymous  with  mobocracy. 
By  some,  the  term  is  said  to  be 
derived  from  one  James  Lynch  Fitz- 
Stephen,  a  merchant  of  Galway,  and 
in  1520  its  mayor.  His  son  having 
been  convicted  of  murder,  he.  Brutus- 
like, sentenced  him  to  death,  and, 
fearing  a  rescue,  caused  him  to  be 
brought  home  and  hanged  before  his 
own  door.  The.se  explanations  can- 
not be  regarded  as  conclusive,  or 
even  tolerably  well  authenticated.  A 
more  probable  solution  is  to  be  found, 
perhaps,  in  the  Provincial  English 
word  liiich,  to  beat  or  maltreat.  If 
this  were  admitted,  Lynch-law  would 
then  be  simply  equivalent  to  "  club- 
law." 

Ly'on-nesse'.  Another  form  of  Leon- 
noys.     See  Leonnoys. 

Lyric  Muse.  A  title  awarded  to 
Corinna,  a  poetess  of  Tanagra,  in 
Ba-otia,  contemporary  with  Pindar, 
whom  she  is  said  to  have  conquered 
five  times  in  nmsical  contests. 

L^-san'der.  A  character  in  love  with 
Hermia,  in  Shakespeare's  ''  Midsum- 
mer-Xight's  Dream." 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


MAB 


224 


MAC 


M. 


Mab.  [Erse  ^fenhhdli,  said  to  have 
been  ori^^'inally  the  name  of  a  great 
Irish  priiiees.s.J  The  name  given  by 
the  Knglisii  poets  of  tlie  tifteenth 
and  succeeding  centuries  to  the  imag- 
inary queen  of  the  fairies.  Shake- 
speare lias  given  a  tamous  descrip- 
tion of  Queen  Mab  in  "  Komeo  and 
Juhet,"  a.  i.,  so.  4. 

Miih,  tin-  mistress  fairy. 
That  dotli  nijjjlitly  rob  the  dairy, 
And  can  hurt  or  lieli)  tlie  churning 
As  she  please,  without  discerninjj; 
She  that  pinches  country  wenclies 
If  thev  rub  not  clean  their  benches, 
But  if  so  they  chance  to  feast  her. 
In  a  shoe  slie  drops  a  tester.      Be.n  Jonson. 
If  ye  will  with  Mab  find  grace, 
Set  each  platter  in  its  place; 
Rike  tlie  tire  up  and  get 
Water  in  ere  sun  be  set; 
Sweep  vour  house;  who  doth  not  so, 
Mab  will  pinch  her  by  the  toe.         Hei-rick. 

Ma-caire'.  Robert  (Fr.pron.  ro'ber' 
ma^lx^ef'.  G4).  The  name  of  a  char- 
acter in  a  hirge  numbi-r  of  French 
plays,  particularly  tAvo,  entitled 
"  Chien  de  iMontargis  "  and  '*  Chien 
d'Aubry  ;"  applied  to  any  audacious 
criminal.  JMacaire  was  a  real  per- 
son, a  French  knight  of  the  time  of 
('harles  V.,  but  his  Christian  name 
was  Richard,  not  Robert.  He  is  tra- 
ditionally said  to  have  assassinated 
Aubry  de  Montdiflier,  one  ©f  his 
conipanions-in-arnis,  in  the  forest  of 
Bondy,  in  the  year  1371.  As  the  dog 
of  the  murdered  man  displayed  the 
most  unappeasable  enmity  towards 
Macaire,  the  latter  was  arrested  on 
snspicion,  and  required  to  tight  a 
judicial  combat  with  the  animal. 
The  result  was  fatal  to  the  murderer, 
:;nd  he  died  confessing  his  guilt. 
The  character  of  Macaire  has  been  a 
favorite  one  upon  the  Parisian  stage, 
and  hence  the  name  is  sometimt'S 
used  as  a  sportive  designation  of  the 
French  people  generally. 

Mac-beth'.  An  ancient  king  of  Scot- 
land, immortalized  by  being  the  hero 
of  Shakcsjieare's  tragedy  of  the  same 
name.     See  Di'NCWN. 

Mac-beth.',  Lady.     Tlie  chief  female 


character  in   Shakespeare's  tragedy 
of  •'  .Uacbeth." 

J^=-  '■  111  the  mind  of  Lady  Macbeth, 
ambition  is  represented  a.s  Mie  ruling;  mo- 
tive, —  an  intense,  overmastering  piu<.«ioa, 
wliich  is  gratified  at  the  e.xpenso  of  every 
just  and  generous  principle,  and  every 
feminine  feeling.  In  the  pursuit  of  her 
object,  she  is  cruel,  tre;icherous,  and 
daring.  Slie  is  doubly,  trebl\  dyed  in 
guilt  and  blood  ;  lor  the  murder  she  in- 
stigates is  rendered  more  friglitful  by  dis- 
loyalty and  ingratitude,  and  by  the  vio- 
lation of  all  the  most  sacred  claims  of 
kindred  and  hospitality.  When  herhu.s- 
band's  more  kindly  nature  shrinks  from 
the  perpetration  of  the  deed  of  horror, 
she,  like  an  evil  genius,  whispers  him  on 
to  his  damnation.  .  .  .  Lady  Macbeth's 
amazing  po»ver  of  intellect,  her  inexora- 
ble determination  of  purpose,  her  super- 
human strengtii  of  nerve,  remler  her  as 
fearful  in  her.self  as  lier  deeds  are  hate- 
ful ;  yet  she  is  not  ;i  mere  monster  of  de- 
pravity, with  whom  we  have  nothing  in 
common,  nor  a  meteor,  whose  destroying 
path  we  watch  in  ignorant  affright  and 
amaze.  She  is  a  terrible  impersonation 
of  evil  piussions  and  niiglity  powers,  never 
so  far  removed  from  our  own  nature  as 
to  be  cast  beyond  the  pale  of  our  sympa- 
thies :  for  the  woman  herself  remains  a 
woman  to  the  last,  still  linked  with  her 
sex  and  with  humanity.''    Mrs.  Jameson. 

Mac'brt-ar,  Ephraiin.  An  enthusia.st 
preacher  in  Scott's  "  Old  Mortality." 

McBride,  Miss.  A  proud  heiress 
with  great  expectations,  whose  his- 
tory is  related  in  a  humorous  and 
popular  poem  by  John  G.  Saxe. 

Mac-duff.  A  Scottish  thane,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Mac- 
beth." 

McPin'gSl.  The  hero  of  Trnmbnll's 
Hudibrastic  political  poem  of  the 
same  name:  represented  as  a  burly 
New  England  scpiire  enlisted  on  the 
side  of  the  Tory,  or  royalist,  partv  of 
the  American  Revolution,  and  con- 
stantly engaged  in  controversy  with 
Honorius,  tlie  champion  of  the  \Vhigs, 
or  relx'ls. 

Mac  Fleck'nSe.  [That  is,  Flecknoe'g 
son.]    The  title  of  a  poem  by  Dry  den, 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,'  with  the  accompanying  Explanation 


MAC 


225 


MAD 


in  which  ho  lampoons  Thomas  Shad- 
well,  a  worthless  cdiiteniporarv  \HK't 
and  dramatist,  who  had  ivijeatedly 
intimated  his  superiority  to  Drvden 
as  a  writer  of  plays.  liy  "  INlac 
Hecknoe,"  8had\vell  is  meant,  though 
he  is  called,  in  the  poem  itself,  by  his 
real  name  only.  The  Mecknoe  to 
whom  the  title  alludes  was  a  wretched 
poet,  so  distinguished  for  his  bad 
verses  that  his  name  had  become 
almost  proverbial.  Dryden  describes 
him  as  an  aj^ed  prince,  who,  tor  many 
years,  had  reigned 

"  without  dispute. 
Through  all  tlie  realms  of  Nonsense,  abso- 
lute." 

Shad  well  is  represented  as  the  adopted 
son  of  this  venerable  monarch,  and 
is  solemnly  inaugurated  as  his  succes- 
sor on  the  throne  of  dullness. 

McFlimsey,  Flora.  The  heroine  of 
"  Nothing  to  Wear,"  a  ])opular  satir- 
ical ])oem  by  William  Allen  Butler 
(b.  1825),  an  American  author. 

Mac-greg'or.     See  Rob  Roy. 

Ma-cha'6n.  [Gr.  Maxawv.]  ( Or.  (f 
lioia.  JJyt/i.)  A  son  of  ^^Lsculapius, 
and  a  surgeon  of  the  Greeks  belbre 
Tro}',  Avhere  he  died. 

Mac-heath',  Captain.  A  highway- 
man who  is  the  hero  of  Gay's  "  Beg- 
gar's Opera." 

I  communicnted  this  purpose,  and  recom- 
mended the  old  haj;  to  poor  Effie,  hy  a  letter, 
in  which  I  recollect  that  I  endeavored  to  sup- 
port the  character  of  Mucheath  under  con- 
demnation,—  a  fine,  gay,  bold-faced  ruffian, 
who  is  game  to  the  last.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

He  hears  the  sound  of  coaches  and  six, 
takes  the  road  like  Mricheath,  and  makes  so- 
ciety stand  and  deliver.  Thiicherait. 

Mac-I'vpr,  Fer'gus  (4V  The  chief 
of  Glenuaqnoich,  a  prominent  charac- 
ter in  Scott's  novel  of  "  Waverley." 
[Called  also  Vicli  Jan  Vohr.'] 

Mac-i'vor,  Flora.  The  heroine  of 
Scott's  "  Waverley;  "  sister  to  Ferg-us 
^laclvor. 

Ma'cSn,  or  Mac'Sn.  [It.  Mncnrte. 
'*  Evidently  a  corruption  of  Jfaliomet 
[or  Mahdiiji]  ;  for  the  Italians  do  not 
aspirate  the  //,  thev  pronounce  it  like 
a  a;."  Ugo  FnAcoto.  See  jMaitoun.] 
An  old  English  form  of  Mfilioniet. 

Praised,  quoth  he,  be  Macon,  whom  we  serve. 

Fuirfux. 


Mac-rab'in,  Mark.  A  pseudonym 
under  which  a  series  of  interesting 
"  Recollections  "  by  a  Cameronian 
were  contril)uted  to  "  Blackwood's 
Magazine."  The  writer  is  believed 
to  have  been  Allan  Cunningham. 

Mac-rab'in,  Peter.      An   imaginary 

interlocutor  in  the  "  Noctes  Ambro- 
siamc "  of  Wilson,  Lockhart,  and 
Maginn. 

MacSycophant,  Sir  Per'ti-nax  (4). 
A  noted  character  in  3Iacklin's  com- 
edy of  "  The  Way  of  the  World." 

McTab,  The  Honorable  Miss 
Lucretia.  A  stiti'  maiden  aunt  in 
Colman's  comedy,  "  The  Poor  Gen- 
tleman ;  "  sister  of  one  of  the  oldest 
barons  in  Scotland,  and  extremely 
proud  of  her  noble  birth,  but  reduced 
to  dependence  upon  the  husband  of 
a  deceased  niece. 

Mac-Turk',  Captain  Hec'tor.     One 

of  the  ^Managing  Committee  at  the 
Spa,  in  Scott's  novel  of  "  St.  Ronan's 
Well;"  characterized  as  "the  nian 
of  Peace." 

Mad  Anthony.  A  sobriquet  of  Major- 
(ieneral  Anthony  Wayne  (1745- 
1790),  distinguished  for  his  military 
skill  and  impetuous  bravery  in  the 
war  of  the  American  Revolution. 

Mad  Cavalier.  A  sobriquet  given  to 
Prince  Rupert  of  Bavaria  (]()19-l(j82), 
nephew  of  Charles  I.  of  England, 
and  a  leader  of  that  king's  forces  dur- 
ing the  civil  wars.  He  was  remarka- 
ble for  his  rash  courage  and  impetu- 
osity, and  his  impatience  of  control 
and  advice. 

Madhava  ( m a-tTi5' va ) .  ( THmlu  Myth . ) 
A  name  often  given  to  Vishnu.     See 

YlSHNU. 

Madman  of  Macedonia.       A    name 

sometimes  applied  to  Alexander  the 
Great  (;]56-;523  n.  c),  king  of  Mace- 
donia, whose  extraordinary  and  unin- 
terrupted militar}'  success  created  in 
him  a  thirst  for  universal  dominion  so 
insatiable  that  he  is  said  to  have 
wept  becans*;  there  were  no  more 
worlds  than  this  for  him  to  conquer. 

Heroes  are  much  the  same,  the  point 's  aereed. 
From  Macedonia's  Madman  to  the  Swede. 


Kom.  lor  the  Remarks  and  Kules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 
15 


MAD 


22G 


MAG 


•'A  Nation  which  can  fight,"  think  the 
Gazetteers;  "...  and  is  Iccl  on  by  iU  king, 
too,  who  may  prove,  in  his  way,  a  very 
Charles  XII.,  or  sniiili  Macedonia's  Madinun, 
for  aught  one  knowts;  "  in  wljicli  latter  branch 
of  their  prognostic  the  Gazetteers  were  much 
out.  Carli/le. 

Madman  of  the  North.  Charles  XII. 
of  Swcik'ii ;  —  so  called  on  account 
of  thu  rashness  and  inijietuosity  of 
his  character.  He  was  born  at  Stuck- 
liohn  in  1G82,  and  killed  at  the  siege 
of  Krederickslmll,  in  J718.  His  life 
was  full  of  exciting  adventures  in 
war.  He  formed  great  plans  for  the 
aggrandizement  of  his  kingdom, 
which  he  did  not  live  to  execute,  an(l 
at  his  death,  Sweden  iell  from  the 
rank  of  a  leading  power. 

Ma'dor,  Sir.  A  Scottish  knight  with 
whom  Lancelot  du  Lac  engaged  in 
single  combat,  in  order  to  prove  the 
innocence  of  Queen  (Juinever,  falsely 
accused  by  Sir  Mador  of  having 
poisoned  his  brother.  The  contest 
lasted  from  noon  till  evening,  when 
Lancelot  finally  achieved  a  complete 
victory  over  his  antagonist.  See 
JoYKi'sE  Garde,  La. 

Mad  Parliament.  (Kng.  Hist.)  \ 
name  given  by  the  old  chroniclers  to 
a  parliament  which  assembled  at 
Oxford  on  the  11th  of  June  1258, 
and  which,  exasperated  at  the  ex- 
orbitant demands  for  supplies  made 
by  the  king,  Henry  III.,  to  enable 
him  to  accomplish  the  conquest  of 
iSicily,  broke  out  into  open  revolt 
again-t  the  supremacy  of  the  crown, 
which  resulted  in  the  appointment  of 
twenty-four  of  their  number,  -svith 
the  famous  Simon  de  Montfort  as 
president,  to  administer  the  govern- 
ment. 

Mad  Poet.  1.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  Xathaniel  Lee  (1G57-10!)0), 
ah  Enulish  dramatic  poet,  who,  in 
1681,  Ijeeame  insane,  and  was  con- 
fined in  Bedlam  for  four  years. 

2.  A  sobriquet  applied  to  ]McDon- 
ald  Clark  (17;)8-1842),  author  of  va- 
rious fugitive  yjoetical  pieces  in  which 
there  are  some  glimmerings  of  gen- 
ius. He  died  in  the  Insane  Asyhun 
at  Blooiningdale,  New  York. 

Mae-ce'nas  (Caius  Cilnius).  A 
wealth V  IJoman  nobleman  (d.  b.  c. 


8),  a  friend  of  Augustus,  and  a  liberal 
patnjn  of  Virgil,  Horace,  Tropertius, 
and  other  men  of  genius.  The  name 
is  proverbially  used  to  denote  any 
munihcent  triend  of  literature. 

M8e-on'i-de§.  [Gr.  Maioi'ifir)?.]  A 
poetical  designation  of  Homer,  whc 
was  born,  according  to  some  ac- 
counts, in  Ma-onia,  a  district  of  East- 
ern Lydia,  in  Asia  Minor. 

Those  other  two  equaled  with  me  in  fate, 
So  were  1  equaled  with  them  in  renown, — 
Blind  Thaniyris  and  blind  MusOTudcs. 

Milton. 

Ma'ga.  A  popular  sobriquet  of  "  Black- 
wood's Magazine,"  the  contributors 
to  Avhich  have  embraced  many  of  the 
most  eminent  writers  of  Great  Brit- 
ain, including  Wordsworth,  Cole- 
ridge, Lamb,  De  Quincey,  Landor, 
and  others.  The  name  is  a  contrac- 
tion of  the  word  Magazine. 

On  other  occasions  he  was  similarly  hon- 
ored, and  wi'.s  invariably  mentioneil  with 
praise  by  "Wilson,  the  presiding  genius  of 
Jfarja.  R.  Sheltnn  Mackenzie. 

Ma'^i,  The  Three.  The  "  wise  men 
from  the  East"  who  came  to  Jerusa- 
lem bringing  gifts  to  the  infant  Je- 
sus. {Matt.n.)  M(t(ji  {m  the  orig- 
inal Greek,  ixayoi)  is  the  Latin  for 
"wise  men,"  in  the  Vulgate  transla- 
tion of  the  Bible.  The  traditional 
names  of  the  three  Magi  are  Melchior, 
represented  as  an  old  man  with  a  long 
beard,  ottering  gold,  in  acknowledg- 
ment of  the  .';overeignty  of  Christ ; 
Jaspar,  a  beardless  youth,  who  offers 
frankincense,  in  recognition  of  our 
Lord's  divinity;  and  Balthazar,  a 
black,  or  Moor,  with  a  large  spread- 
ing beard,  who  tenders  myrrh,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  Saviour's  humanity. 
They  are  the  patron  saints  of  trav- 
elers. See  Cologne,  The  Thuee 
Kings  of. 

fi£S"  '•  Earlv  did  tradition  fix  the 
number  at  three,  prohablv  in  allnsion  to 
the  thrve  raees  of  men  descended  from 
the  son*  of  Nonh  ;  and  .soon  thev  were 
said  to  be  descendants  of  the  Mesopo- 
tamian  prophet  Balaam,  from  whom  they 
derived  the  expectation  of  the  star  of 
.Tacob.  Their  corps(»s  were  supposed  to 
be  at  that  storeiiouse  of  relics,  (Constan- 
tinople, whence  the  Empre<!s  Helena 
caused  them  to  be  transported  to  Milan. 
Frederick    Barbaro.ssa   carried   them    td 


For  the  "Key  to    the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


MAG 


227 


MAI 


Cologne,  the  place  of  their  especial  glory- 
as  tlie  Three  Kings  of  C'ologue."'     Yoiigf. 

Magician,  Great.     See  (Jkkat  iMa- 

tiU'IAN. 

Magician,  Little.     Sec  Litti.k  INIa- 

(.KIAN. 

Magician  of  the  North.  [Cler.  M<i- 
Ifts  <ius  X(>i-(/in.\  A  title  a.ssuined  by 
Johann  (ieori;;  Hamann  (1730-1788), 
a  (ierniaii  writer  of  very  original 
jj;eiiius. 

Maguelone,  The  Fair.  See  Fair 
Ma(jui-:l<)nk. 

Mahadeva  (ma'ha-dri'va).  [Sff/^,s^•., 
great  j;-()d.]  (IIIik/u  Mijili.)  An  a))- 
]jellati()n  by  whicli  Siva  is  usually 
designated.     See  Siva. 

Mahadevi  (mS'lia-da'vee).  [Sansk., 
great  goddess.]  (Hindu  Myth.)  An- 
other name  of  Durga,  the  wife  of 
Siva.    See  Dukga. 

Ma-houn',  <>r  Ma'houn,     |  [Old  Fr. 

Ma- hound',  "r  Ma'hound.i  I\ln]iom."\ 
(-'orrupted  forms  of  the  name  Ma- 
homet, used  by  our  old  writers. 

And  oftentimes  by  Termngaunt  and  Mahoimd 
swore.  Spenser. 

Of  sundry  faith  together  in  that  town,  .  .  . 
The  greater,  tar,  were  votaries  to  Malioun. 

Fairfax. 
An  antique  flowered  silk  {jown  graced  the 
extraordinary  i)crson  to  whom  belonged  this 
unparalleled  iete,  wliich  her  brother  was  wont 
to  say  was  fitter  for  a  turb:ui  ior  Maliouitd  (t 
Termagant,  than  a  head-gear  for  a  reasonable 
creature,  or  Christian  gentlewoman. 

^'(V  ir.  Scolt. 

There  was  crying  in  Granada  when  the  sun 

was  going  down. 
Some  calling  on  the  Trinity,  some  calling  on 

Jla/ioiin.  Lockhurt. 

Mahu  (ma-hoo',  0?' ma'hoo).  A  liend 
mentioned  by  Shakespeare,  in  the 
tragedy  of  "  Lear,"  as  the  instigator 
of  theft      See  Flibbertigibbet,  1. 

Ma'i-a  (20).  [Gr.  Mala.]  (  6'r.  (f  Rom. 
.]fytli  )  A  daughter  of  Atlas,  and 
the  mother  of  iMercury. 

Maiden  Queen  A  name  popularly 
given  to  Queen  Elizabeth  of  Eng- 
land, who  began  to  reign  in  1558,  at 
the  age  of  twenty-five,  and  died  un- 
married in  1G03,  at  the  age  of  sev- 
enty.    See  Virgin  Qitken. 

He  merely  asks  whether,  at  that  period,  the 
Mair/en  fj^ieeii  was  red-painted  on  the  nose, 
and  white-painted  on  the  cheeks,  is  her  tire- 
women—  when,  from  spk'en  and  wrinkles, 
she  would  no  longer  look  in  any  glass  —  were 
wont  to  serve  her.  Carli/le. 


Maiden  Town.  [Gael.  Maiili-fJun, 
Brit.  Mitiiliii,  Lat.  Cdnlrnm.  PiwWt- 
rv.ni.\  A  name  popularly  given  .to 
E(liul)urgli,  from  a  monkish  fable  or 
tradition  that  it  was  once  the  resi- 
dence of  the  daughters  of  Pictish 
kings,  who  were  sent  to  this  strong- 
hold for  ])rotectiou  in  times  of  war 
aiul  trouble. 

Your  hiinds  are  weak  with  age,  he  said, 
Vonr  hearts  are  stout  and  true; 

So  bide  ye  in  the  J/niilen  7'oirn, 
While' others  liglit  for  you.  Aytoun. 

Maid  Ma'ri-an  (9).  A  personage  in 
the  morris-dances,  often  dressed  like  a 
Avoman,  and  sometimes  like  a  strum- 
pet, and  whose  name  is,  therefore, 
used  to  describe  Avomen  of  an  impu- 
dent or  masculine  character.  Though 
the  morris-dances  were,  as  their  name 
denotes,  of  Moorish  origin,  yet  they 
Avere  commonly  adapted  in  England 
to  the  popular  English  story  of  Hobiu 
Hood,  who.'^e  fair  Matilda,  or  Marian, 
Avas  the  A^ery  person  here  originallv 
represented.     See  Robin  Hood. 

JO"  Maid  Marian,  as  Queen  of  May, 
has  a  golden  crown  upon  her  head,  and 
ill  her  left  hand  a  red  pink  as  an  emblem 
of  summer.  Percy  and  Steevens  agree  ia 
making  Marian  the  mistress  of  Robin 
Hood.  Douce,  however,  considers  the 
character  a  dramatic  fiction.  '•  None  of 
the  materials  ttiat  constitute  the  more 
authentic  liistory  of  Robin  Hood  prove 
the  existence  of  such  a  character  in  the 
shape  of  his  mistress." 

tX^  "  Probably  the  addition  of  the 
German  diminutive  chen,  in  French  o«, 
formed  the  name  of 

'  A  bonny  fine  maid,  of  noble  degree, 
Maid  Marian  called  by  name.' 

Verv  soon  had  her  fame  traveled  abroad, 
for  in  1332  the  play  of  '  Robin  et  Marion  ' 
was  performed  by  the  students  of  Angers, 
one  of  tliem  appearing  as  a  jillctti'  d  '- 
guisee:  the  origin  of  Marionettes,  pup- 
pets disguised  to  play  the  part  of  Maid 
Marian,  is  thus  explained."'  Yongt- 

Robin's  mistress  denr,  his  loved  3/a?'('aw, 
Was  sovereign  of  the  woods,  chief  lady  of  tho 

gime; 
Her  clothes  tucked  to  the  knee,  and  dainty- 

b'-aided  hair. 
With  bow  and  quiver  armed.  Drayton. 

Maid  of  Anjou,  Fair.  See  Fair 
Maid  of  Anjou. 

Maid  of  Bath  (2).  A  name  giA^en  to 
INliss  Linley,  a  beautiful  and  accom- 
plished singer,  Avho  became  the  wife 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MAT 


228 


MAL 


of   Richard   P.rinsley   Shoridan,   the 
celebrattjd  dramatist  and  statesman. 

Maid  of  Kent,  Fair.  See  Fair  Maid 
OF  Kknt. 

Maid  of  Kent,  Holy.  See  Holy 
IMau)  of  Kk.nt. 

Maid  of  Norway.  In  Scottish  liis- 
torv,  a  name  given  to  ^largaret,  a 
grand-daiigiiter  of  Alexander  III., 
recognized  as  his  successor  by  the 
states  of  Scothmd,  tiioiigh  a  i'emale, 
an  inlant,and  a  foreigner.  She  died, 
however,  on  lier  passage  to  Scotland, 
in  1290.  Her  father  -was  Eric  II., 
king  of  Norway,  and  her  mother 
Margaret,  only  daughter  of  Alexan- 
der. 

Maid  of  Or'le-ans.  A  surname  giv- 
en to  Joan  of  Arc,  from  her  heroic 
defense  of  the  city  of  Orleans.  Hav- 
ing been  taken  captive  by  the  Eng- 
lish, she  suffered  martyrdom,  being 
burned  alive  bv  order  of  the  Earl  of 
Warwick,  on  the  2-tth  of  May,  1-431. 

j6@="  "  It  was  requisite  that  she  should 
suffer ;  for  had  she  not  passed  through 
the  supreme  trial  and  purification,  du- 
bious shadows  would  have  remained 
among  the  rays  tliat  beam  from  her 
saintly  liead  ;  she  would  not  have  dwelt 
in  men's  memory  as  the  Maid  of  Or- 
leans."' Mic/ielet,  Trans. 

Maid  of  Perth,  Fair.  See  Fair 
Maid  of  Pekth. 

Maid  of  Saragossa.  An  appella- 
tion bestowed  upon  Agustina  Zara- 
goza,  a  young  Spanish  woman  dis- 
tinguished for  her  heroism  during  the 
defense  of  Saragossa  in  1808-9.  She 
first  attracted  notice  by  mounting  a 
battery  where  her  lover  had  fallen, 
and  working  a  gun  in  his  room.  By- 
ron has  celeb'-ated  her  in  the  first 
canto  of  his  "  Childe  Harold." 

Malagigi  (nutl-a-je-'jee).  A  celebrat- 
ed hero  in  the  romances  and  poems 
based  upon  the  fabulous  adventures 
of  Charlenuigne  and  his  paladins. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  a  cousin  to 
Rinaldo,  and  a  son  of  Beuves.  or  Bu- 
ovo.  of  Aygremont.  He  was  brought 
np  In-  the  fairy  Orianda,  and  became 
a  great  enchanter. 

Mal'a-gri'da.  A  nickname  given  by 
contemporary  political  opponents  to 


Lord  Sholl)urne  ( 1717-180.5),  a  zeal- 
ous oj)po>itionist  (hiring  the  adminis- 
tration of  Lord  North,  (ilal)riel  INlal- 
agrida  (KiSlJ-lTfil )  was  an  Italian 
Jesuit,  and  missionary  to  r)ra/,il,who 
Avas  accused  of  conspiring  against  the 
king  of  Portugal. 

KJ}"  "  'Do  \ou  know,'  said  Goldsmith 
to  his  lordship,  in  tUe  course  of  conversa- 
tion, '  that  I  never  conhl  conceive  why 
they  call  you  Malaprida,  for  Malaarida 
was  a  very  good  M)rt  ()f  man."  This  was  too 
good  a  trip  of  the  tongue  for  Beauclerc 
to  let  pass  :  he  serves  it  up  in  his  next 
letter  to  Lord  Charlemont,  as  a  specimen 
of  a  mode  of  turning  a  thought  the 
wrong  way,  peculiar  to  the  poet;  he 
makes  mnrry  over  it  with  his  witty  and 
sarcastic  compeer,  Horace  ANalpole,  who 
pronounces  it  'a  picture  of  Goldsmith"s 
whole  life.'  Dr.  .lohnson  alone,  when  he 
hears  it  bandied  about  as  Goldsmith's  last 
blunder,  growls  forth  a  friendly  defense  : 
'  Sir,'  said  he,  '  it  was  a  mere  blunder  in 
emphasis.  He  meant  to  say,  I  wonder 
they  should  use  Malagvida  as  a  term  of 
reproach.'  Poor  Goh'smith  I  On  such 
points  he  was  ever  doomed  to  be  misin- 
terpreted." W.  Irving. 
Mal'a-grow'tSer.  1.  (Sir  Mun'go.) 
An  old  courtier  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's 
novel,  "The  Fortunes  of  Nigel." 
"  He  is  a  man  of  birth  and  talents, 
but  naturally  unamiable,  and  soured 
by  misfortune,  who  now,  mutilated 
by  accident,  and  grown  old.  and  deaf, 
and  peevish,  endeavors  by  the  un- 
sparing exercise  of  a  malicious  pene- 
tration and  a  caustic  wit,  under  the 
protection  of  his  bodily  infirmities, 
to  retaliate  on  an  unfriendly  world, 
and  to  reduce  its  hajipier  inhabitants 
to  a  momentary  level  wiih  himself." 

2.  (Mal'a-chi. )  A  vom  (It  plume 
used  by  Sir  A\' alter  Scott  as  the  sig- 
nature of  several  letters  written  by 
him  to  the  Edinburgh  "Weekly 
Journal"  in  182fi,  in  opposition  to 
the  proposition  in  the  British  parlia- 
ment to  restrict  tJie  circulation  of 
bank-notes  of  less  than  five  pounds 
value  in  Scotland. 

/ii^  ••  These  diatribes  produced  in 
Scotland  a  sensation  not  perhaps  inferior 
to  that  of  the  Drapier"s  letters  in  Ire- 
land :  a  greater  one.  certaiidy,  than  any 
political  tract  had  excited  in  the  British 
public  at  large  since  the  appearance  of 
Burke's  '  Refiectious  on  the  French  Revo- 
lution.' "  Lock/iart 


0^*  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanationa, 


MAL 


229 


MAM 


Mal'a-prop,  Mrs.  A  character  in 
Slicriilaa's  comedy  of"  Tlic  Rivals," 
noted  tor  her  bliinders  in  the  use  of 
words.  Tile  name  is  obviously  de- 
rived from  the  Krencli  iikU  a  propos, 
unapt,  ill-timed. 

ti--^  "  Mrs.  Milaprop's  mistakes  in 
■whit  she  her-elf  calls  '  orthodoxy  '  have 
been  often  objec-teJ  to  as  improbable  from 
a  wnni  m  in  her  rank  oflite  ;  bnt  tiioujj;h 
some  of  tliHm.  it  must  be  owueil.  are  ex- 
trivagint  and  faroieal,  thev  are  almost 
all  amusing;  and  the  luckiness  of  her 
simile,  '  as  headstrong  as  an  aUes^orij  on 
the  batiks  of  the  Nile,'  will  be  acknowl- 
edgeil  as  lo  ig  as  there  are  writers  to  be 
run  away  with  b/  the  willfulness  of  this 
truly  '  headstrong  '  species  of  composi- 
tion." T.  Mjor,'. 

The  conclusion  drawn  was,  that  Chikle 
Hirold,  Bvroii,  and  the  Count  in  Boppo,  are 
one  and  the  siuie  person,  thereby  inikui;^  me 
turn  out  to  be,  as  .l/z-s.  Midaprop  siiys,  "  like 
Cerberus,  three  gentlemen  at  once."       Byron. 

Mal-bec'cD.  A  character  in  Spen- 
ser's "  Faery  Q.ieen  "  (B.  III.,  c.  9, 
10),  desiirned  to  represent  the  self- 
inrticted  torments  endured  by  him 

*'  Who  dotes,  yet  doubts;  suspects,  yet  fondly 
loves.'* 

The  sight  could  jealous  pangs  beguile, 
And  charm  Malb'ecco's  cares  awhile. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Malcolm  (mll'kuni).  A  son  of  Dun- 
can, in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of 
"  Macbeth." 

Malebolge  (ma-la-boPja).  A  name 
given  by  Dante  to  the  eighth  circle 
in  his  ■'  Inferno,"  from  the  ten  "  evil  " 
"  60(74,"  OJ*  P'ts,  which  it  contains. 

Mil-vo'li-o.  Steward  to  Olivia,  in 
Shakespeare's  '"Twelfth  Night." 

4f^  '•  Malvolio  is  not  essentially  ludi- 
crous. He  become-!  comic  but  by  accident. 
He  is  col  I.  austere,  repelling,  but  dignified, 
consistent,  \x\  1,  for  what  appears,  rather 
of  aa  overstretcheii  morality.  .  .  .  Hf  is 
opposed  to  tiie  proper  levities  of  the  piece, 
aid  fills  in  the  unequal  contest.  Still  his 
pride,  or  his  -rravity  (c;t,ll  it  which  you 
will),  is  i'lherent,  anl  native  to  the  man, 
not  mock  or  affij''ted,  which  litter  onl/ 
are  the  fit  objects  to  excite  lauuhter.  His 
quality  is,  at  the  be-t,  unlovely,  but 
neither  buffoon  nor  contemptible.  .  .  . 
His  dialect,  on  all  occasions,  is  thaL  of  a 
gentleman  and  a  man  of  education.  We 
must  not  confound  him  witli  the  eternal, 
old,  low  steward  of  comedv.  He  i«  master 
of  the  household  to  a  great  princess,  — a 
dignity,    probably,  conferred    upon   him 


for  other  respects  than  age  or  length  of 
Service."'  Ciuirlis  Lamb. 

Four  of  the  duke's  f  iciids,  with  tlicohcdient 
start  which  poor  Mah olio  a.^crihcs  to  his  iin- 
iigiiiary'  rctiiuu',  made  out  to  lead  the  victor  to 
his  presence.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Clearing  liis  voice  with  a  preliniinary  hem, 
he  addiessed  his  kinsman,  checking,  as  Mal- 
I'ulio  proposed  to  do  wluui  seated  in  his  state, 
his  familiar  smile  with  an  austere  regard  of 
control.  Sir  H  .  Scott. 

We  fools  of  fancy,  who  suffer  ourselves,  like 
Malrolio,  to  be  cheated  with  our  own  visions, 
have,  nevertheless,  this  advantage  over  the 
wise  ones  of  the  earth,  that  we  have  our  whole 
stock  of  enjoyments  under  our  own  command, 
and  can  disli  for  ourselvoK  an  intellectual  ban- 
quet with  most  moderate  assistance  from  ex- 
ternal objects.  Sir  IV.  Scott. 

MamamoucM  (ma^ma'moo'she').  A 
knight  of  an  imaginarj'  order,  of 
which  M.  Jourdain,  in  INIoliere's 
comedy,  "  Le  Bourgeois  Gentil- 
homme,"  is  persuaded  that  the  grand 
seignior  has  made  him  a  member, 
and  into  which  he  is  inducted  br  the 
ceremony  of  a  mock  installation. 

AH  the  women  most  devoutly  swear. 
Each  would  be  rather  a  poor  actress  here, 
Than  to  be  made  a  Mamaniouchi  there. 

Dryden. 

Mambrino  (mam-bre'no).  A  Moor- 
ish king,  in  the  romantic  poems  of 
Bojardo  and  Ariosto,  who  was  the 
possessor  of  an  enchanted  golden 
helmet,  which  rendered  the  wearer 
invulnerable,  and  which  was  the  ob- 
ject of  eager  quest  to  the  paladins 
of  Charlemagne.  This  helmet  was 
borne  away  by  the  knight  Kinaldo. 
It  owes  its  celebrity,  in  a  great  meas- 
ure, to  the  mention  which  is  made  of 
it  by  Cervantes,  in  "  Don  Quixote," 
where  the  crazy  knight  of  that  name 
is  represented  as  fully  believing  that 
he  had  found  it  in  what  was  in  real- 
ity nothing  but  a  copper  basin,  high- 
ly polished,  which  a  barber,  on  his 
way  to  bleed  a  patient,  had  put  on 
his  head  to  protect  a  neAV  hat  during 
a  shower. 

lake  some  enchanted  Mamhrino's  helmet. 

Carlylc. 

But  the  'Wir'  fbetweon  Chnrles  VT.,  em- 
peror of  Germany,  and  Philip  X .,  king  of 
SpMn,  ]"l.S-_'m,  except  that  miny  men  were 
killed  in  it,  and  much  vain  bnhble  wts  uttered 
upon  it.  ranks  otherwise  with  tint  of  Don 
Quixote  for  conquest  of  the  enchanted  helmet 
of  Mamhrivo,  which,  when  looked  into,  proved 
to  be  a  barber's  basin.  Carlyle. 

Ma-mil1i-us.  A  young  prince  of 
Sicilia,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Winter's 
Tale." 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MAM 


230 


MAN 


Mam'mftn.  A  Syriac  word  used  in 
tilt-  Scriptures  to  si<^iiify  either  riches 
or  the  goci  of  riclies.  By  poetic  li- 
cense, 5iilton  niaives  Manunon  one 
ot'tlie  fallen  aiiLfels,  and  portrays  his 
character  in  the  loUowiny  lines:  — 

3Iainiiion,  the  least  erected  sjtirit  that  fell 
I'roin  heaven;  for  even  in  heaven  his  looks 

and  thoiisrhts 
Were  always  downward  bent:  admirinj;  more 
The  riches  of  heaven's  pavement,  trodden 

gold, 
Than  aught  divine  or  hoi}'  else  enjoyed 
In  vision  beatilie:  by  him  first 
Men,  also,  and  by  his  suggestion  taught, 
Ransacked    the    center,    and    with    impious 

hands 
Rifled  the  bowels  of  their  mother  earth 
Tor  treasures  better  hid.  Par.  Lost,  Bk.  I. 

Wieriis,  in  his  account  of  the  infernal 
court  of  Beelzebub,  makes  Mannnon 
its  ambassador  in  Euf^land.  Other 
niediieval  demono«^raphers  placed 
him  at  the  head  of  tlie  ninth  rank  of 
demons,  of  which  they  reckoned  nine 
kinds. 
Mammon,  Cave  of.  See  Cave  of 
Mammon. 

Mam'mon,  Sir  Epicure.  A  Avorld- 
h'  sensualist,  in  Ben  Jonson's  play, 
''The  Alchemist." 

Sir  E/jicurc  did  not  indulge  in  visions  more 
magnificent  and  gigantic  [than  Bacon]. 

Macaulai/. 

Manchester  Massacre.  See  Petek- 
L()(),  Field  of. 

Manchester  Poet.  An  appellation 
f^iven  to  Charles  Swain  (b.  1803),  an 
English  poet,  and  a  native  of  Man- 
chester. 

Mandane  (mo°'dan',  62).  The  heroine 
of  Mme.  Sciidery"s  romance  entitled 
"Artamanes,  ou  Le  Grand  Cyrus." 

Mandricardo  (man-dre-kaf'do).  A 
.Saracen  warrior  in  Bojardo's  "  Or- 
lando Innamorato,"  son  of  Agricane, 
and  em])eror  of  Tartary.  He  figures 
also  in  Ariosto's  •'  Orlando  Furioso  " 
and  other  romantic  poems  and  tales 
of  the  Carlovingian  cycle. 

Ma'nes.  [Lat.,  the  good  or  benevolent 
ones.]  (Rom.  Myth.)  The  deilied 
souls  of  the  departed,  worshiped  with 
divine  honors. 

Man'fred.  The  hero  of  Byron's  drama 
of  the  same  name ;  represented  as 
a  being  estranged  from  all  human 
creatures,   indifferent   to   all   human 


sympathies,  and  dwelling  in  the 
magnilicent  solitude  of  the  central 
Alps,  where  he  holds  communion 
only  with  the  spirits  he  invokes  i>y 
his  s(u-ceries,  ami  with  the  fearful 
memory  ot  the  being  he  has  loved 
and  destroyed. 

Man  in  Black.  1.  A  character  in 
Goldsmith's  "  Citizen  of  the  World," 
supposed  to  be,  in  its  main  features, 
a  portrait  of  Goldsmith's  father. 

j6£^  •'  A  most  delightful  compound  is 
the  '  Man  in  Black  ;  '  a  rarity  uot  to  be 
met  with  often  :  a  true  oddity,  with  the 
tongue  of  Timon  and  the  heart  of  Uncle 
I  Toby.  He  prochijms  war  against  pauper- 
ism, vet  he  cannot  say  '  No  '  to  a  beggar. 
He  ridicules  generosity,  yet  would  he 
share  with  the  poor  whatever  be  pos- 
sessed."' Henry  Gikb. 

2.  The  subject  of  a  tale  by  Wash- 
ington Irving. 

Man  in  the  Moon.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  to  the  dark  lines  and 
spots  upon  the  surface  of  the  moon 
which  are  visible  to  the  naked  eye, 
and  which,  when  examined  with  a 
good  telescope,  are  discovered  to  be 
the  shadows  of  lunar  mountains.  It 
is  one  of  the  most  popular,  and 
perhaps  one  of  the  most  ancient, 
superstitions  in  the  world,  that  these 
lines  and  spots  are  the  tigure  of  a 
man  leaning  on  a  fork,  on  which  he 
carries  a  bundle  of  thorns  or  brush- 
Avood,  for  stealing  which  on  a  Sunday 
he  was  confined  in  the  moon.  (See 
Shakespeare's  '•  ]Midsummer-Xight's 
Dream,"  a.  iii.,  sc.  1,  and  "  Tempest," 
a.  ii.,  PC.  2.)  The  account  given  in 
Numbers  xv.  32,  et  seq.,  of  a  man 
Avho  was  stoned  to  death  for  gathering 
sticks  upon  the  Sabbath-day,  is  im- 
doubtedly  the  origin  of  this  belief. 

4!^  To  have  a  care  ''  lest  the  chorle 
may  fall  out  of  the  moon  "'  appears  from 
Chaucer's  "Troilus  and  Cresseide"  to 
have  been  a  proverbial  expression  in  lii.s 
time.  Tn  the  "  Testament  of  Cresseide."' 
describing  the  moon,  he  informs  us  that 
she  had 

"  On  her  brest  a  chorle  painted  ful  even 
r!caring  a  bush  of  thovnes  on  liis  backe. 
Which  for  his  theft  might  climb  uo  uer  the 
lieven." 

With  the  Italians,  Cain  appears  to  have 
been  the  offender.  Dante,  in  the  twen- 
tieth canto  of  the  "  Inferno,"  describes 


©3"  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


MAN 


231 


MAN 


the  moon  by  the  periphrasis,  "  Cnino  e  le 
spill'  .'^  The  Jews  liave  soiim^  Tiihiiiuliciil 
etory  that  .lacob  is  iti  the  moon,  and  tliey 
believe  tliat  his  face  is  visible.  For  Ori- 
ental and  other  tr;iditioiis,  see  Grimm, 
"Deutsehe  Mytliologie,"  p.  G79. 

JS£^  "  As  for  the  forme  of  those  spots, 
some  of  the  vulgar  thiuke  they  represent 
a  innii.  and  the  p<X'ts  guess  "t  is  the  boy 
Sii'/i/inidii,  whose  eomp.iny  shee  loves  so 
■well  that  she  carries  hiui  with  her  :  oth- 
ers will  have  it  onely  to  be  the  face  of  a 
man,  as  the  moon  is  usually  pictured  ; 
but  Albertus  thinkes  rather  that  it  rep- 
resents a  h/oii,  with  liis  tail  toward  the 
east  and  his  head  to  the  west ;  and  some 
others  have  thought  it  to  be  very  much 
like  a  fox ;  and  certainly  it  is  as  much 
like  a  lyon  as  that  in  the  zodiake,  or  as 
Ursii  IMajor  is  like  a  beare." 

Bp.  Wilkins,  Disc.qfa  Neiu  World. 

ttanly.  One  of  the  dramatis  pnsonce 
in  Wycherley's  "  Plain-dealer,"  de- 
scribed by  the  author  as  "  of  an 
honest,  surly,  nice  humor,  supposed 
lirst  in  the  time  of  the  Dutch  War  to 
have  procured  the  command  of  a 
ship,  out  of  honor,  not  interest,  and 
choosinj^  a  sea-life  only  to  avoid  the 
Avorld."  Leitcli  Hunt  characterizes 
him  as  "a  ferocious  sensualist,  who 
believed  himself  as  great  a  rascal  as 
he  thought  every  body  else." 

l^a-no'S.  A  fabulous  city  of  great 
size,  wealth,  and  population,  in  El 
Dorado,  on  the  west  shore  of  Lake 
I'arime,  and  at  the  mouth  of  a  great 
river  which  empties  into  this  lake. 
The  houses  were  said  to  be  covered 
with  plates  of  gold. 

ij^  "'This  fable  began  to  gain  credit 
in  1534,  and  many  were  the  stories  in- 
vented by  Juan  Martinez,  a  Spaniard, 
who,  among  other  things,  asserted  that 
he  had  lived  a  long  time  in  the  country, 
and  that  he  left  it  by  the  permission  of  the 
chief  who  commanded  it,  and  who  was 
descended  from  the  ancient  Incas  of  Pe- 
ru ;  that  this  same  cliief  gave  orders  that 
he  sliould  be  accompanied  by  Indians  till 
he  reached  the  Spanish  frontiers  ;  that 
they  took  care  to  lead  him  i»iindfold.  lest 
he  might  observe  the  way  by  which  to  re- 
turn ;  with  several  «">ther  things  equally 
vague  and  foolish,  but  so  as  to  induce,  at 
first,  many  expeditions  to  tliis  fair-reputed 
city  at  tlie  expense  of  large  sums  of  money 
and  many  lives."'  Alcedo,  Trans. 

Man  of  Bath  (2).  A  surname  given 
to  Ralph  Allen,  the  fiiend  of  Pope, 


"Warburton,  and  Fielding,  celebrated 

in  the  well-known  lines  of  the  lirst:  — 

"  Let  huiuhle  Alli.Mi,with  an  awkward  Khanie, 
Do  good   l)v  stealth,  and  blush  to  lind  it 
fame. 

Man  of  Blood.  An  expression  which 
occurs  in  the  Old  Testament  (2  Sam. 
xvi.  7),  in  a  marginal  note  exijlana- 
tory  of  the  context,  and  which  refers 
in  (hat  place  to  King  David.  The 
application  of  the  term  to  any  man 
of  violence  is  naturally  suggested, 
and  it  would  seem  to  have  been  em- 
ployed by  the  Puritans  in  reference 
to  Charles  I.  It  was  also  popularly 
given  to  Thomas  Simmons,  an  Eng- 
lish murderer,  executed  at  Hertford, 
]March  7,  1808. 

And  the  M(m  of  Plood  was  there,  with  hia 
Ions,  cssenced  liair, 

And  Astley,  and  Sir  Marmaduke,  and  Ru- 
pert of  the  Rhine.  Jlacaiilay. 

Man  of  Destiny.  An  appellation  con- 
ferred on  Napoleon  Bonaparte,  who 
believed  himself  to  be  a  chosen  in- 
strument of  Destiny,  and  that  his 
actions  Avere  governed  by  some  occult 
and  supernatural  intluence. 

The  head  of  the  royal  house  of  Savoy  .  .  . 
was  to  have  the  melancholy  experience  that 
he  had  encountered  with  the  Man  of  Dcsthii/, 
.  .  .  who,  for  a  time,  had  power,  in  the  em- 
phatic phrase  of  Scripture,  "to  hind  kings 
with  chains,  and  nobles  with  fetters  of  irf)n. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Man  of  Feeling.  The  title  of  a  novel, 
by  Henry  IMackenzie  (1745-18-31), 
designed  to  characterize  the  hero, 
Ilarley,  and  often  applied  to  him  as  a 
descriptive  epithet.  It  is  also  fre- 
quently used  as  a  sobriquet  to  desig- 
nate the  author.     See  Hakley. 

The  wonder  rather  is,  that  the  Man  of  Feel- 
ing shoidd  never  have  been  moved  to  mii'th, 
than  that  T'ncle  Tobv  should  have  h'nshed 
away  his  tears  with  a  laugh.        H.  llartineau. 

Man  of  Ross.  John  Kyrle,  a  priA'ate 
gentleman  of  small  fortune  (1664- 
1754),  who  resided  in  the  parish  of 
Koss,  comity  of  Hereiord,  England, 
and  who  was  distinguished  for  his 
benevolence  and  public  spirit.  Pope 
has  immortalized  him  in  his  "■  Moral 
Essays,"  "  Epistle  Third,"  "  On  the 
Use  "of  Riches."  The  title  "  Man  of 
Ross"  was  given  to  him  in  his  life- 
time by  a  countr\'  friend;  and  Mr. 
Kyrle  is  said  to  have  been  highly 
pleased  with  the  appellation. 


and  for  th«  Remarks  aud  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


MAN 


232 


MAR 


Richer  thnn  misor  o'er  his  conntlcRR  hoards, 
NobliT  tlian  kings,  (ir  king-niilliitfd  lords. 
Here  dwelt    thu  Man  oj   liosi '.     O  traveler, 

lie  I.! 
Departed  merit  claims  a  reverent  tear. 

(Jolcriihje. 

Man  of  Sin.  A  dosi^natioii  occurriiif^ 
in  the  Xow  TfstaiiR'Ut  (2  'Jlass.  ii.  3), 
respecting  th  ;  meaning-  of  which  com- 
mentators are  at  variance.  Whitby 
says  tlie  .lewisii  nation  is  intended. 
Grotius  allinns  the  reference  to  be  to 
Caius  C;esar,  or  Caliyida.  Wetstein 
understands  by  it  Titus  and  the 
Fhivian  house.  Others,  as  Olshausen, 
suppose  it  to  mean  some  one  Avho 
has  not  yet  appeared,  in  Avhom  all 
the  characteristics  specilied  will  be 
united,  lioman  Catholics  apply  the 
term  to  Antichrist,  while  most  Prot- 
estants apply  it  to  the  I'ope  of  Rome. 
The  rifth  -  .Monarchy  men  called 
Cromwell  the  "  Man  of  Sin." 

The  zeal  of  your  Majesty  toward  the  house 
of  God  doth  not  slack  or  go  backward,  but  is 
more  and  more  kindled,  m  inifesting  itself 
aliroad  in  the  furthest  parts  of  Christendom, 
bv  writing  iu  defense  of  the  truth,  which  hath 
given  such  a  blow  unto  that  Mini  of' Sin  us 
will  not  be  he  lied.       Trun.-'latois  o/tlie  Hi ,}•■. 

Man  of  the  People.  A  title  popidarly 
given  by  his  contemporaries  and  ad- 
mirers to  Charles  .James  Fox  (1741J- 
180G),  a  celebrated  English  states- 
man. 

Man  of  the  Sea,  Old.  See  Old  Man 
OF  THK  Se.v. 

Man'ta-li'ni.  A  cockney  fop  of  ex- 
travagant habits,  maintained  by  his 
wife,  in  Dickens's  novel  of  "  Nicholas 
Nickleby." 

Yet  a  gentleman  of  Mr.  Charles  Knight's 
taste  and  sympathetic  appreciation  of  Shake- 
speare, editing  his  works  in  the  middle  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  can  perpetuate  the 
Mantalini-ism  of  the  tie-wig  editors. 

R.  G.  White. 

Mantuan  Swan.  A  title  given  to  the 
Latin  poet  Virgil,  born  at  Mantua 
(70  B.  c),  whose  works  have  been 
more  studied  and  admired,  especially 
in  the  Middle  .Vges,  than  those  of  any 
other  Latin  author.  Me  is  distin- 
guished for  the  exquisite  smoothness 
and  melodiousness  of  his  versifica- 
tion. 

Ages  elapsed  ere  Homer's  Inmp  appeared. 
And  ages  e-e  the  Muntiiitti  Siiuiii  was  bi-ird; 
To  carry  N-iture  lengths  unknown  before. 
To  give  a  Milton  birth,  asked  ages  mo"e. 

CouT/ier. 


Mar-cella  (Sp.  pron.  mai'--thel'y5). 
The  name  of  a  fair  shepherdess, 
whose  story  forms  an  episode  in  Cer- 
vantes's  romance  of"  Don  Qui.xote." 

Mar-cel'lus.  The  name  of  ;in  olHcer, 
ill  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Ham- 
let." 

The  author  of  "  Waverley  "  was,  in  this  re- 
spect, as  impassible  to  thecritic  as  the  ghost 
of  Hamlet  to  the  partisan  of  J/«rce//«.<. 

Sir  (('.  Scott. 

Marchioness,  The.  A  poor,  abu.sed, 
half-starved  girl,  in  Dickens's  "  Old 
(Curiosity  Shop;"  the  "small  ser^'- 
ant  ■'  to  Sampson  Brass.  See  liiiAss, 
Sampson. 

Mar-do'ni-us.  The  name  of  a  captain, 
in  Beaumont  and  i'letcher's  play, 
"  A  King  or  No  King." 

Marfisa(mar-fe'sS).  An  Indian  queen 
who  tigures  in  Bojardo's  "  Orlando 
Innamorao"  and  in  Ariosto's  "Or- 
lando Furioso." 

Mar-gar'e-lon.  [Probably  from  Gr. 
/lapyap  rz/s",  Lat.  mitrf/'ii  i/a ,  a  pearl. 
The  name  is  not  classical,  and  was 
apparently  coined  lo  express  "  the 
pear!  of  knighthood."]  A  Trojan 
liero,  of  modern  legendary  history; 
called  by  Shakespeare  ('•  Troilus  and 
Cressida,"  a.  v.,  sc.  5),"  bastard,"  and 
described  by  him  as  performing  deeds 
of  prowess  which  seem  to  imply  gi- 
gantic stature. 

"  Bastard  Marrtnrdon 
Hath  Doreus  prisoner. 

And  stands.  Colossus-like,  wnvinir  his  beam 
Upon  the  pashed  corses  of  the  kings." 

T>ydgatp's  "Bokeof  Troy"  mentions 
him  under  the  name  of  .)f'iraariton, 
and  calls  him  a  son  of  Priam.  Ac- 
cording to  this  author,  he  attacked 
Achilles,  and  tell  by  his  hand. 

Margaret.  1.  The  heroine  of  Goethe's 
"  Faust"  Faust  meets  her  on  her 
return  from  charch,  falls  in  love  Avith 
her,  and  at  last  seduces  her.  Over- 
come with  shame,  Margaret  de-trovs 
the  infant  to  Avhich  she  gives  birth, 
and  is  in  consequi'uce  condemned  to 
death.  Faust  attempts  to  save  her: 
gaining  admission  to  the  dungeon 
where  she  i-^  immured,  he  finds  her 
lying  huddled  on  a  bed  of  >^traw, 
singing  wild  snatches  of  ancient  bal- 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanyiug  Explanations, 


MAR 


233 


MAR 


enormous,  —  and  robbing  the  host, 
he  sets  lire  to  the  house,  and  departs 
■with  .Morgante,  rejoieing  greatly  in 
his  suecess,  and  earrying  otK  every 
thing  lie  ean  hiy  his  hands  upon. 
Tiiey  go  traveling  on,  and  meet  with 
various  adventures.  At  last,  one 
morning,  Morgante,  to  play  him  a 
triek.  draws  otf  Margutte's  boots 
while  he  is  asleep,  and  hides  them. 
Margutte  looks  lor  them,  and  at 
length  perceives  an  ape,  who  is  put- 
ting them  on  and  drawing  them  olf. 
The  sight  of  the  animal  thus  engaged 
so  tickles  ]Margutte's  fancy  that  he 
laughs  till  he  bursts. 

Maria.  1.  A  lady  attending  on  the 
princess  of  France,  in  Shakespeare's 
-Love's  Labor  's  J^ost." 

2.  Olivia's    woman,    in     Shake- 
speare's "■  Twelfth  Night." 

3.  A  character  in  Sterne's  "  Senti- 
mental Journey." 

Ma'ri-an'a  (9).  1.  A  lady,  in  Shake- 
speare's "Measure  for  Measure,"  be- 
loved by  Angelo. 

j8f0=-  "  Shakespeare  has  given  us  in 
Mariana  one  of  the  most  lovable  and 
■womanly  of  his  feminine  creations.  We 
see  little  of  her  ;  indeed,  she  does  not 
appear  until  the  fourth  act,  in  the  tirst 
scene  of  -which  she  says  very  little,  in 
the  last  scene  but  eight  words,  and  in 
the  tifth  act  not  a  great  deal.  But  the 
few  touches  of  the  master's  hand  make  a 
charming  picture.  .  .  .  Turn  to  the  tifth 
act  and  hear  her  plead,  —  pleuil  for  the 
man  [Angelo]  whom  she  has  loved 
through  lonelv  years  of  wrong  :  t!ie  man 
whose  life  is  jnstlv  forfeit  for  taking,  as 
she  thinks,  the  life  of  another,  in  a  «'0ur>;e 
of  crime  which  involved  a  sin  Mgninst  her 
love.  Timid  and  shrinkinir  before,  she 
does  not  now  wait  to  be  encouraged  in 
her  suit.  She  i*  instant  and  importu- 
nate. Slie  does  not  reason  or  quibble 
with  the  duke  ;  she  begs,  she  implores, 
she  kneels.  .  .  .  And  does  not  hor  very 
praver  for  Angelo  make  his  crime  >'eem 
more  detestable,  as  well  as  her  more  lov- 
able?" R.  G.  White. 
2.  A  character  in  Shakespeare's 
"All  's  Well  that  Ends  Well." 

M5-ri'na.  Daughter  of  IVricles  and 
Thaisa,  in  Shakespeare's  play,  "Peri- 
cles, Prince  of  Tyre." 

Mar'I-tor'nSs.  [So.,  bad  woman. 
(Jomp.  Old  Fr.  Mnlitorne.']    A  dwarf- 

aad  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certun  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xzxii. 


lads,  her  reason  gone,  her  end  ap- 
proaching. For  a  long  time  he  vainly 
strives  to  induce  her  to  Hee  Avith  him. 
At  last  the  morning  dawns,  and 
Mephistopheles  appears,    grim     and 

!)assionless,  laust  is  hurrit'<l  oil",  antl 
Vlargaret  is  left  to  her  fate.  The 
story  of  Margaret  is  original  with 
Goethe,  having  little  or  no  connec- 
tion with  the  legends  from  which 
the  main  characters  of  the  poem  are 
drawn.  [Called  also  (jrctcht-ii,  a 
German  diminutive  of  Mar(/artt.] 

4cg=  '•  Goethe  is  the  only  dramatic  poet 
■who  has  succeeded  in  giving  to  a  simple, 
uncultured  girl  from  the  lower  ranks  of 
life  a  poetic  interest.  Gretchen  is  a  per- 
fect union  of  homely  nature  and  poetic 
beauty.  She  says  not  a  word  that  might 
not  have  been  uttered  by  any  girl  of  her 
class  in  any  town  in  Germany  ;  and  yet, 
Buch  is  the  exquisite  art  of  the  author, 
she  acquires  in  our  estimation  an  ideal 
import,  and  registers  herself  in  the  mem- 
orj'  as  one  of  the  most  i-emarkable  por- 
traits in  the  rich,  wide  gallery  of  dramatic 
art."'  Christ.  E.ranuner.  "Shakespeare 
himself  has  drawn  no  such  portrait  as 
that  of  Margaret ;  no  such  peculiar  union 
of  passion,  simplicitv,  homeliness,  and 
witchery.  The  poverty  and  inferior  social 
position  of  Margaret  are  never  lost  sight 
of;  she  never  becomes  an  abstraction  ;  it 
is  love  alone  which  exalts  her  above  her 
lowly  station,  and  it  is  only  i  ,  passion 
she  is  so  exalted."  L&ices. 

2.  The  title  of  a  strikingly  original 
American  romance,  bv  the  Keverend 
Sylve.ster  Judd  (181.3-1853),  and  the 
name  of  its  heroine. 

Margutte  (maf-go(.taa.  102).  The 
name  of  a  singular  beini::,  in  Pulci's 
"  Morgante  ^lag^iore,"  who  was 
desirous  of  l)ecomin!T:  a  giant,  but 
repented.  half-Avay,  so  that  he  only 
reached  the  height  of  ten  feet  He  is 
represented  as  an  impudent,  vulgar, 
low  -  minded  fellow,  without  con- 
science, religion,  humanity,  or  care 
for  aught  but  the  grossest  indulgence 
of  the  senses,  and  as  boa'^ting  of 
having  no  virtue  but  fidelity.  His 
adventures  —  which  form  a  mere 
episode  in  the  poem  —  are  conducted 
■with  a  kind  of  straightforward  wick- 
edness which  amuses  from  its  verv 
excess.  At  an  inn,  after  eating  all 
that  is  to  be   got,  —  his  appetite  is 


MAR 


234 


MAR 


ish,  foul,  ugly,  lewd  Asturian  wench, 
•vvho  ligures  in  C'ervuntes's  "Don  (Quix- 
ote" as  a  servant  at  an  inn.  This  inn 
the  Don  took  lor  a  castle,  and  imag- 
ined Maritornes  to  be  the  lord's  daugh- 
ter, and  in  love  with  himself. 

Tlic  Jfaritonifs  (jf  iho  Siraccn's  Head,  New- 
ark, replied,  Two  women  had  pa&sed  th:;t 
morning.  Sir  If.  Scott. 

Had  I  used  the  privilege  recommended  to 
me  by  the  reviewer,  .  .  .  I  fear  I  Fhinilcl  he 
considered  as  having  f^illen  into  the  frenzy  of 
him  who  discovered  a  iK'autifiil  infanta  in  the 
coarse  skin  ff  Maritomi a,  itnd  "mistook  her 
hair,  wliirh  was  iis  rough  as  ii  lK)rse's  mane, 
for  soft  flowing  threads  of  curling  gold." 

DunJop. 

Mark,  King.  A  fabulous  king  of 
Cornwall,  husband  of  Isolde,  and 
imcle  of  Tristram.  See  Isolde,  Tin- 
TAGEL,  and  Tristkam,  Sin. 

Mark'ham,  Mrs.  A  n<mi  de  plume, 
adopted  by  ^Nlrs.  Elizabeth  (Cart- 
■vvright)  Penrose,  a  ])opular  English 
authoress  of  the  present  day. 

Marlow,  Sir  Charles.     A  character 

in  Goldsmith's  comedy,  "  She  Stoops 
to  Conquer.'' 

Marlow,  Young.  The  hero  of  Gold- 
smith's comedy,  "  She  Stoops  to  Con- 
quer," distinguished  for  his  excessive 
bashfulness  before  his  mistress,  and 
his  easy  familiarity  Avith  the  chamber- 
maid, who  turns  out  to  be  his  mistress 
in  disguise. 

Mar'mi-on.  The  hero  of  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  poem  of  the  same  name;  an 
English  knight,  valiant  and  sagacious, 
but  profligate  and  unscrupulous,  who 
meets  with  various  adventures  in 
Scotland,  and  linally  falls  upon  the 
tield  of  Flodden. 

Marplot.  1.  (Sir  Martin.)  The  title, 
and  the  name  of  the  hero,  of  an  English 
comedy,  —  a  translation  of  3Ioliere's 
"  T/Etourdi.'"  — originally  written  by 
the  Duke  of  Newcastle  (Wm.  Cav- 
endish), and  adapted  for  the  stage  by 
Dryden. 

2.  One  of  the  dmmntis  persnvce 
in  Mrs.  Centlivre's  comedy-  of  "  The 
Busybody;  "  described  as  "a  sort  of 
silly  fellow,  cowardly,  but  very  in- 
quisitive to  know  every  body's  busi- 
ness." 

Mar-Prelate,  Martin.  A  name  as- 
sumed by  the  author,  or  authors,  of 


a  series  of  powerful  but  scurriloug 
tracts,  designed  to  show  the  anti- 
scriptural  character  of  the  prelacy, 
which  Avere  printed  in  England  in 
the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 

XJ^^  The  first  of  the.'^e  tracts,  entitled 
"  Au  Epistle  to  the  Terrible  Priest.*," 
made  its  appearance  in  1588.  and  created 
intense  excitement.  The  printer.  RolMTt 
Waldgrave,  who  was  chietiy  implicated 
in  the  publication  of  the  obnoxious  pam- 
phlet, together  with  other  writings  hoa- 
tile  to  the  Established  Church,  waj 
ohligeil  to  tiee  with  his  materials  from 
place  to  jilace,  was  often  incarcerated, 
and  his  press  at  last  destroyed.  The 
great  curiosity  and  interest  which  these 
Avxitings  occasioned  are  illustrated  in  an 
anecdote  furnished  by  Disraeli.  "  When 
a  i)rohiliition  was  issued  that  no  person 
should  carry  about  with  him  any  of  the 
Mar-l'relate  tracts,  on  pain  of  punish- 
ment, Kobert,  Earl  of  Essex,  observed  to 
the  (jueen.  '  What,  then,  is  to  become  of 
me?  '  drawing  one  ot  the  pamphlets  from 
hisbosou),aud  presenting  it  to  her."  The 
"  Mar-l'relate  coil troversy  ""  forms  an  im- 
portant episode  in  the  ecclesiastical  his- 
tory of  England,  and  in  the  annals  of 
Puritanism.  Attempts  have  sometimes 
been  made  to  cast  odium  upon  the  F'uri- 
tai;s  by  making  them  responsible  for  the 
violent  and  abusive  character  of  these 
writings.  Hopkins,  in  his  *•  History  of 
tiie  Puritans,"'  defends  them  from  this 
charge,  declaring  that  they  were  in  no 
way  implicated  ia  the  affair:  that  the  au- 
thor, whoever  he  may  have  been,  was  not 
a  minister,  was  not  even  a  Puritan, — 
that  is,  in  distinction  from  a  Brownist ; 
and  that  he  wrote  from  a  wholly  inde- 
pendent point  of  view.  The  ho.-tility  of 
the  Church  and  State  was  aroused  by 
these  violent  attacks  in  an  uncrmmon 
degree.  The  strictest  inquisition  was 
everywhei*  made  to  discover  the  real 
author.  Four  bishops  perambulated  the 
country  in  search  of  the  bold  Martin. 
Many  persons  were  arrested,  and  severely 
dealt  with,  on  suspicion.  But  no  discov- 
ery was  ever  made ;  ^lartin  Mar-Prelate 
remains  a  mystery.  His  secret  died  with 
him.  "  Sfat  noyn'ni is  umbra.''  It  is,  how- 
ever, generally  believed  that  these  pro- 
ductions proceeded,  either  wholly  or  in 
part,  from  .lohn  Penry.  or  Ap  Henry, 
who  WHS  executpil  Mav  29.  1593.  for  hav- 
ing written  seditious  words  against  the 
queen.  With  Penry  some  associate  .lob 
Throckmorton,  or  Throgmorton,  John 
Udall,  and  John  Field,  or  W .  Fenner. 

Mars.       (C,r.    (f   B<>m.    ^fl,^h.)      The 
god  of  war,  originally   an   agricaltu- 


'  For  the  *'  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  £xplanationj% 


MAR 


235 


MAS 


ral  deity.  As  the  reputed  father  of 
RumuUis,  he  was  held  to  be  the  pro- 
genitor of  the  Roinau  people,  who 
paid  him  hig-her  lioiiors  than  any 
other  god  exeept  -lupiter.  He  was 
identitied,  at  a  very  early  period,  with 
the  Greek  Arts. 

Marsh,  The.  [Fr.  Le  Mnrais.l  i^Fr. 
Hid.)  A  name  given  to  "The 
Plain,"  or  the  lowest  benches  in  the 
hall  of  the  National  Convention  after 
the  overthrow  of  the  Girondists  by 
the  -Jacobins.  This  part  of  the  house 
was  occupied  by  all  the  members  of 
the  convention  who,  though  not  be- 
longing to  "  The  Mountain,"  were  yet 
meaidy  subservient  to  it.  See  Mou:n- 
TAiN,  The,  and  Plain,  The. 

Marshal  Forwards.  [Ger.  Jfarschall 
I'onriirfa.]  A  title  given  by  the 
Russians,  in  181:3,  to  Field-lNIarshal 
J.ebrecht  von  I'.Uicher  (1742-181!)),  a 
distinguished  general  of  Prussia,  on 
account  of  the  extraordinary  celerity 
of  his  movements,  and  his  peculiar 
manner  of  attack.  From  that  time, 
it  became  his  name  of  honor  through- 
out all  Europe. 

Marsiglio  (maf-seePyo),  or  Mar-sil'i- 
us.  A  vSaracen  king  who  ligures  in 
the  romantic  ])oems  of  Italy.  Having 
been  defeated  by  Charlemagne,  ami 
condemned  to  pay  him  tribute,  he 
plots  with  Gano  (see  Gan,  or  Gano) 
the  destruction  of  Roland,  or  Orlando, 
who  is  to  come,  slenderly  accompa- 
nied, to  lioncesvalles,  to  receive  the 
promised  gifts  and  submission.  Mar- 
siglio accordingly  advances,  accom- 
panied by  6()0,(K)l)  men,  divided  into 
three  armies,  which  successively  at- 
tack the  paladin  and  his  few  troops, 
and  comi)letely  overwhelm  them.  But 
their  death  is  avenged  by  Rinaldo  and 
Ciiarlemagne,  who  now  arrive  on  the 
scene,  with  a  large  force.  Marsiglio 
is  at  length  defeated;  and  Archbishop 
Turpi n  kindly  performs  the  last  office 
for  liim  by  tying  him  up  to  a  carob- 
tree,  —  the  same  tree  on  which  .Judas 
Iscariot  is  said  to  have  hanged  him- 
self,—  under  which  he  had  planned 
his  villainy  with  (iano,  who  is  also 
hanged,  and  drawn  and  quartered, 
amid  the  execrations  of  all  who  are 


present.      See    Roland.      [Written 
also  M  a  r  s  i  r  i  0  and  M  a  r  s  i  r  i  u  s.] 

Mar'sy-as.  [Gr.  Mapcriias.]  ( Gi:  (f 
Jioiii,  .\lyth.)  A  famous  Phrygian 
peasant,  or,  as  some  say,  a  satyr,  who 
challenged  Ajjollo  to  a  trial  of  skill  in 
music,  and,  being  vancjuished,  was 
tiayed  alive  for  his  presumption. 

Marteau  des  II6r6tiques,  Le  (lu 
mar'to'  dit  za'ra'tek').  See  Hammek 
OF  Heketics. 

Mar-Text,  Sir  Oliver.  A  vicar,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  As  You  Like  It." 

Martha.  A  friend  of  jNIargaret,  in 
Goethe's  "Faust;"  represented  as 
making  love  to  Mephisto))heles  with 
direct  worldly  shrewdness. 

Marvel,  Ik.  A  intm  de  plume  of  Don- 
ald G.  Mitchell  (b.  1822),  a  po))ular 
Auierican  Avriter  of  the  present  day. 

Marvelous  Boy.  A  name  some- 
times ap))lied  to  Thomas  Chatterton 
(1752-1770),  whose  precocious  genius 
and  early  and  tragical  deatb  made 
him  one  of  the  wonders  of  English 
literature.  It  originated  with  Words- 
worth.    See  Rowley,  Thomas. 

I  tliouglit  of  Cljatterton,  the  inarreloiis  bo;/, 
Tlie  sleepless  soul  that  j)erishe(l  in  his  i)ride. 
U'ordsuorth. 

Mascarille  (mas'ka're^'',  82).  A 
valet  in  Moliere's  "  L'llitourdi,"  "  Le 
Depit  Amoureux,"  and  "  Les  Pi^ci- 

euses  Ridicules." 

Mask,  The  Iron,  or  The  Man  with 
the  Iron  Mask.  [Fr.  V  nomine  an 
M((S'j[ue  (It  Ftr.]  A  name  used  to 
desii^iate  an  unknown  French  pris- 
oner, whose  identity  has  never  been 
satisfactorily  established.  Me  was 
carried,  about  the  year  1G79,  with  the 
greatest  secrecy,  to  the  castle  of  Pi- 
gnerol,  of  which  Saint  31ars  was  gov- 
ernor. He  wore,  during  the  Journey, 
a  black  mask,  and  orders  were  given 
to  kill  him  if  he  discovered  himself. 
In  1086,  he  was  carried  by  Saint 
Mars  to  the  isle  of  Sainte  Margue- 
rite ;  and,  on  the  passage,  the  same 
precautions  were  observed  as  upon 
his  first  journey.  Saint  Mars,  hav- 
ing been  appointed  governor  of  the 
P)astile  in  16.18,  carried  the  prisoner 
with  him  (Sept.  18),  but  still  masked. 


ami  for  the  Kemarks  aud  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  nfter  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


MAS 


236 


MAS 


There  he  remained  till  his  death, 
on  the  lUth  of  Nov.,  17()-'i,  tieated 
with  the  utmost  respect,  l)ut  closely 
watched,  and  not  j^ermitted  to  take 
ott"  his  mask  even  betore  his  ph\>i- 
cian.  lie  was  buried  on  the  2Utii  of 
Nov.,  in  the  cemetery  of  St.  I'aul, 
under  the  name  oi"  Marchiali. 

jK^  Notwithstaudiiig  the  appellation 
given  him,  the  iiiiusk  he  wore  was  uot  of 
iron,  hut  of  lil.ick  velvet,  strengthened 
with  whalehone,  find  secured  behind  the 
head  with  steel  springs,  or,  as  some  as- 
sert, by  means  of  a  padlock.  Many  con- 
jectures have  beeu  hazarded  as  to  who  this 
mysterious  personage  could  have  been. 
One  opinion  is,  that  he  was  a  son  of  Anne 
of  Austria,  queen  of  Louis  XIII..  his  fa- 
ther being  Cardinal  Mazarin  (to  whom 
that  dowager  queen  was  privately  mar- 
ried), or  the  Dnke  of  Buckingham.  Oth- 
ers suppose  him  to  have  been  a  twin 
brother  of  Louis  XIV.,  whose  birth  was 
concealed  to  prevent  the  civil  dissensions 
in  France  which  it  might  one  day  have 
caused.  The  latter  view  was  adopted  by 
Voltaire,  in  conmion  with  many  others. 
Some  Dutch  writers  a.ssert  that  the  pris- 
oner was  a  young  foreign  nobleman,  the 
chamberlain  of  Queen  Anne,  and  the 
real  father  of  Louis  XIV.  It  has  more 
recently  been  surmised  that  Fouquet  was 
the  mask;  but  M.  Delort  and  the  Right 
Honorable  Agar  Ellis  (afterward  Lord 
Dover)  identifv  him  with  a  Count  Mat- 
thioH,  a  minister  of  Charles  III.,  Duke  of 
Mantua.  This  ndnisterhad  been  largely 
bribed  by  Louis  XIV..  and  had  pledged 
himself  to  urge  the  duke  to  give  up  to 
the  French  the  fortress  of  Casale,  which 
gave  access  to  the  wliole  of  Loniburdy. 
But  Louis,  finding  that  Matthioli  was 
playing  him  fiLse,  lured  him  to  the 
French  frontier,  and  had  him  secretly 
arrested  and  imprisoned.  Being  a  min- 
ister plenipotentiary  at  the  time,  his 
seizure  was  a  lligrant  violation  of  inter- 
national law,  which  it  was  safer  to  be 
able  to  deny  than  to  attempt  to  justify  ; 
and  the  denial  once  made,  the  honor  of 
France  wa.s  involved  in  upholding  it 
This  opinion  is  the  one  gen-^rally  received 
at  the  present  day  by  those  who  have  in- 
vestigateil  the  subjct. 

Mason  and  Dixon's  Line.  A  name 
given  to  tlie  southern  boundary-line 
separatini;;  the  free  State  of  Pennsyl- 
vania from  the  former  slave  States 
of  Marvland  and  Virginia.  It  lies 
in  latitude  -V.y^  4.3'  •2ii.:i",  and  was 
run  —  with  the  exception  of  about 
tweutj'-two  miles  —  by  Charles  Ma- 


son and  Jeremiah  Dixon,  two  En,^ 
lish  mathematicians  and  surveyon 
between  Nov.  J 5,  ITG-J,  and  Dec.  26, 
17G7.  During  the  excited  debate  ";n 
cfuigress,  in  1820,  on  the  (juestion  of 
excluding  slavery  from  Missouri,  the 
eccentric  John  Kandolph  of  lloanoke 
made  great  use  of  this  phrase,  which 
was  caught  up  and  i"e-echoed  by  ev- 
ery newspajHT  in  the  land,  and  thus 
gained  a  proverbial  celebrity  which 
it  still  retains. 

Massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew.  See 
IJ.vmiioLo.-MEw's  D.VY,  St. 

Master,  The.  [Ger.  JJer  J/m/er.] 
A  title  given  to  Goethe  by  his  admir- 
ers. 

I  beseech  vou,  Mr.  Tickler,  not  to  be  so  sar- 
coptic  on  "tlie  JIuster."     Xoctef  AmbroMarwa. 

Master  Adam.     [Fr.  M'litre  Admn.] 
The  name  luider  which   the   French 
poet   Adam    Billaut    (1002-1662)    is 
most  familiarly  knowm. 
Master  Humphrey.     A  character  in 
the  introduction  to  Dickens's  novel  of 
"  The  Old  Curiosity  Shop  ;  "  an  old 
man  who  is  the  pretended  author  or 
narrator  of  the  story. 
Master  Leonard.      In   the  fantastic 
system   of   denionology   received    in 
the  Middle  Ages,  a  powerful  devil  in 
the  infernal   court.      He  was  grand 
master  of  the  sabbats,  or  nocturnal 
assemblies,  in  which  demons  and  sor- 
cerers were  Avont  to  celebrate  their 
orgies.     At  these  meetings,  he  pre- 
sided in  the  favorite  form  of  a  three- 
horned  goat   with    a    black    human 
countenance,   and    every   guest   did 
him  homage.     Stolen  children  were 
thought   to   be   brought    to   him,   to 
swear  through   their  god-parents  to 
renounce  God,  the  Holy  Virgin,  and 
the  Saints,  and  to  be   marked  with 
one  of  his  hfirns  with  a  sign  which 
they  bore  diu-ing  their  novitiate. 
Master  Mattaew.     A   town  gnll  in 
Ben    -lonson's    comedy   of    "  Every 
Man  in  his  Humor." 

The  folly  of  individiial?  led  them,  in  those 
times,  to  iissiinie  or  counterfeit  the  humors 
in  real  life,  —  an  aflfect.ntion  which  hud  become 
Bo  general  as  to  fall  under  the  notice  of  the 
stage,  and  to  produce  a  ridicule  of  the  clieat- 
in^  humor,  the  br;i<;-<rin<r  humor,  the  mel- 
ancholy humor,  thi'  quarreling  hujnor,  ai 
in  the  (•haracters  f)f  Nvm,  of  Pistol,  of  Master 
Stephen,  or  Master  Matthew.  Kriin.  Rev. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  with  the  accorapauying  Explanation^ 


MAS 


237 


MED 


Master  of  Sentences,  A  title  given 
to  rotor  Loiiil)ai(l  (d.  1104),  a  native 
of  Lonibarciy,  and  author  of  a  book 
of  "  SentencL's,"  collfcted  fi\)ni  tlie 
fathers  of  tlie  Chiircli.  This  work 
acquired  a  iiigh  degree  of  celebrity 
in  the  Middle  Ages. 

jNIatolu'd  agiiiiist  the  inuster  (if  "  ologies,"  in 
our  chiys,  tho  iiidst  acconiplishud  of  Grecians 
is  bocoiiung  wliat  tlie  JIa.iter  0/  fSeiitcnces  had 
become  king:  since  in  competition  witli  the 
poHtical  economist.  JJe  (.^miiccy. 

Master  Stephen.  The  name  of  a 
country  gidl  in  Ben  Jonson's  com- 
edy, ■*  Every  Man  in  his  Humor." 

Masters,  The  Four.  See  Four  Mas- 
TKKs,  The. 

Maugis  (mo/zhe').  One  of  Charle- 
magne's paladins.  See  jMAi.ACiiGi, 
the  Italian  form  of  the  name. 

Maul  of  Monks.  [Lat.  Malleus  Mon- 
aihi>iuni.\  A  designation  of  Thomas 
Cromwell  (149()-15-10),  an  eminent 
English  statesman  and  ecclesiastical 
reformer.  In  15-35,  he  was  made  vis- 
itor-goneral  of  English  monasteries, 
whicli  he  shortly  afterward  su])- 
pressed  in  the  most  stern  and  sum- 
mary manner. 

MaU-SO'luS.  [Gr.      MavVcoAog.]  A 

king  of  Caria,  and  husband  of  Arte- 
misia, who  raised  a  splendid  tomb  to 
his  memory,  called  the  Mausoleinii, 
and  accounted  one  of  the  Seven 
Wonders  of  the  World. 

Mawworm.  A  celebrated  character 
in  Rickerstaft''s  comedy  of  "  The 
Hypocrite." 

Max'I-min.  A  Roman  tyrant  in  Dry- 
den's  play  entitled  "  Tyrannic  Love, 
or  The  Royal  Martyr." 

Mayeux  (mit'e-ri',  or  mi'i/,  43).  The 
name  of  a  hunchback  who  figures 
prominently  in  numberless  Frencb 
caricatures  and  romances.  The  pop- 
ularity of  the  character  has  made  it 
the  recognized  type  of  a  man  dread- 
fully deformed,  and  vain  and  licen- 
tious, but  brave  and  witt}-. 

Maypole,  The.  A  nickname  given, 
by  the  English  populace,  to  the  Duch- 
ess of  Kendal,  mistress  of  George  I., 
on  account  of  her  leanness  and  height. 

Meal-tub  Plot.  {En;/.  Hist.)  A  fic- 
titious conspiracy  against  the  Duke 


of  York  (afterward  James  H.),  fabri- 
cated, in  lti7!»,  by  one  Daiigertiold, 
and  ascribed  l»y  him  to  the  I'resbyte- 
rians;  —  s(»  called  because  theschemo 
of  the  j)reten(led  couhjiirators  was  con- 
ceaknl  in  a  meal-tub  in  the  house  of 
his  mistress,  a  Mrs.  Cellier.  1  'anger- 
lield  secreted  a  bundle  of  seditious 
letters  in  the  lodgings  of  Colonel 
Alaunsell,  and  then  gave  notice  to 
the  revenue  otiiccrs  that  they  would 
tind  smuggled  goods  there.  The 
papers  having  been  proved  to  be  for- 
geries, 1  angeriield  was  committed  to 
prison,  whereupon  he  conlessed  that 
he  had  been  hired  by  Roman  Catho- 
lics to  accuse  of  treason  some  of  the 
most  eminent  Protestants  opposed  to 
the  Duke  of  York's  succession,  par- 
ticularly the  Earls  of  Shattesl)ury, 
Essex,  and  Halilax,  the  Countess  of 
Powis,  and  Lord  Castleniaine.  He 
was  condemned  to  a  tine,  the  pillor}', 
and  a  whipping.  May  30,  1685.  and 
died,  two  days  alterward,  of  an  injury 
received  during  the  execution  of  his 
sentence. 

Meaux,  Eagle  of.  See  Eagle  of 
Meaux. 

Medamothi  (m'da'mo'te').  [Fr., 
from  Gr.  fXTqbaiJ.66i,  nowhere,  from 
/aTj6a/a6s,  for  /oLT)6e  ajuiis,  not  even  one, 
none.]  An  island  visited  by  Panurge 
and  Pantagruel,  in  their  search  for 
the  Oiacle  of  the  Holy  Bottle. 

Me-de'a.  [Gr.  MrjSeia.]  (O'r.  if  Bom. 
MytJi.)  A  famous  sorceress,  daugh- 
ter of  yEetes,  knig  of  Colchis,  and 
the  wife  of  Jason,  whom  she  assisted 
in  obtaining  the  (iolden  lleece.  and 
then  accompanied  to  Greece.  Jason 
afterward  repudiated  her  in  order  to 
maiTv  Creusa,  whereupon  she  killed 
the  children  she  had  borne  him,  and 
made  away  with  her  rival  by  send- 
ing her  a  poisoned  robe  or  diadem. 
She  finally  became  immortal,  mar- 
ried Achilles  in  Elysium,  and  was 
honored  with  divine  worship  See 
Absyrtus. 

Me-do'ra  (9).  The  heroine  of  By- 
ron's poem  of  "  The  Corsair." 

Medoro  (ma-do^ro).  A  character  in 
Ariosto's  romantic  poem,  '"  Orlando 
Furioso."     See  Orlando. 


aad  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MED 


238 


MEL 


Me-du'sa.  [Gr.  MeSoucra.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  Mijtli.)  One  of  the  Gorgons. 
Her  head  was  cut  oil"  hy  IVrseiis,  and 
presented  to  Minerva,  -.vho  placed  it 
on  her  a'gis,  where  it  turned  into 
stone  all  who  fixed  their  eyes  upon 
it.     See  GoKGONS  and  Pekseus. 


[Gr.  Me-yatpa.]     (  Gr.  cf 

One    of   the    Furies. 


Me-gse'ra  (9). 
Rom.  .ili/f/i.) 
See  FuHiEs. 

Meg  of  "Westminster,  Long.  See 
Long  Meg  ok  \Ve.st.min.steu. 

Mei'kle-wham,  Mr.  Saun'der§ 
(me'kl-).  One  of  the  ^lanaging 
Committee  at  the  Spa,  in  Scott's 
novel  of  "•  St.  Konan's  Well;  "  "the 
man  of  Law." 

Meister, "Wilhelm  (viMielm  niTs'tef, 
42,  (i4,  (;8).  The  hero  of  (ioethe's 
novel  entitled  "  Wilhelm  Meister's 
Apprenticeship." 

K^  "The  critic  seeks  a  central  point 
[to  this  romance],  which,  iu  truth,  is 
hanl  to  fiml.  1  should  think  a  rich  man- 
ifold life  brought  close  to  our  eyes  might 
suffice,  without  auv  determined  moral 
tendency  which  could  Ije  reasoned  upon. 
But,  if  thi-:  is  insisted  upon,  it  may  per- 
haps be  found  in  what  Frederick,  at  the 
end.  says  to  tie  hero,  '  Thmi  seemest  to 
me  like  Saul,  the  son  of  Kish,  who  went 
out  to  seek  his  father's  asses,  and  found 
a  kingdom  I  '  For  what  does  the  wliole 
say,  but  that  man,  despite  all  his  follies 
and  errors,  Icl  by  a  higher  hand,  reaches 
some  higlier  aim  at  last  ?  '* 

Goethe,  Trans. 

Mej'nSun  and  Leilah.  Pattern 
lovers  amoui^  various  Eastern  na- 
tions, like  "  Pyranuis  and  Thisbe  " 
among  the  Greeks  and  Komans. 
[Written  also  Mejnun.] 

J^W  "  Tliese  personages  are  esteemed 
among  tlie  Arabians  as  the  most  beau- 
tiful, chaste,  and  impassioned  of  lovers, 
and  their  amours  have  been  celebrated 
with  all  the  charms  of  verse  in  every 
Oriental  language.  The  Moliammedans 
reg-ard  them,  and  the  poetical  records  of 
their  love,  in  the  same  light  as  the 
'  Bridegroom  and  .Spouse  '  and  the  '  Song 
of  Songs  'are  regarded  by  the  Jews." 

D'Herbelot,  Trans. 
Me-lan'ti-us  (me-lan'shi-us).  A  brave, 
honest  soldier,  in  Beaumont  and 
Fletcher's  play.  "  The  ^Maid's  Trag- 
edy," who  is  incapable  of  suspecting 
evil  till  it  becomes  impossible  to  be 


ignorant  of  it,  but  is  unshrinking  in 

punisliing  it. 

Me-le'a-4er.  [Gr,  MeXe'aypo?.]  ( Gr. 
()'•  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  CEueus, 
king  of  Calydon,  a  city  of  ^Etolia  iu 
Greece,  lie  distinguished  himself  as 
one  of  the  Argonauts,  and  by  his 
skill  in  throwing  the  javelin.  The 
king,  his  father,  having  neglected  to 
pay  honuige  to  Diana,  the  goddess 
^ent  a  wild  boar  to  lay  waste  the 
country:  all  the  princes  of  the  age 
assembled  to  hiuit  him  down,  but  he 
was  at  last  killed  by  Meleager.  His 
mother  —  out  of  revenge  for  the 
death  of  her  brothers,  who  had  fallen 
in  battle  by  his  hand  —  caused  his 
destruction  by  burning  an  extin- 
guishi'd  brand,  on  the  preservation 
of  which  his  lite  depended. 

MePe-sig'e-nes.      [Gr.    MeAr/criYei'rj?, 

from    MeAi,s,   the    river    Meles,   and 

yeVeir,   to    beget.]      An    appellation 

sometimes  given  to  Homer,  on  the 

supposition  that  he  was  born  on  the 

banks  of  the  ^leles,  a  river  of  Ionia, 

in  Asia  Minor,  or  that  the  river-god 

was  his  father. 

Blind  Melexifjenes.  thence  Homer  called, 
AVhose  poem  Phccbus  challenged  for  his  ow»i. 

Miltori. 

Me-li'5-dus.  A  prince  of  Leonnois, 
and  a  knight  of  the  Kound  Table. 
He  was  the  father  of  Sir  Tristram. 
He  is  celebrated  in  a  French  niedi- 
svval  romance,  originally  written  by 
Rusticien  de  Pise,  a  more  modern 
French  compilation  from  which  was 
printed  at  Paris  in  1528. 

MePI-boe'us.  A  shepherd  in  the  first 
Eclogue  of  Yirgil.  The  name  is  used 
bv  Chaucer  in  his  prose  composition 
entitled  "The  Tale  of  Melibeus," 
one  of  the  "  Canterbury  Tales."  He 
also  writes  it  M  e  1  i  b  e  e. 

Mel'I-cer'ta,  or  MePi-cer'tes  (4). 
[Gr.  .\leAtK'epT7;5-]  (Gr.ij-  Rom.  Myth.) 
A  son  of  the  Theban  king  Athamas 
by  Ino.  He  was  metamorphosed 
into  a  sea-god.     See  Ino. 

Me-lis's5.  A  beneficent  fairy  invent- 
ed by  the  Italian  poets;  the  protector 
of  Bradamantc  and  Kuggiero,  in  the 
"Orlando  Furioso"  of  Ariosto.  She 
is   sometimes   confounded    with    the' 


II9°*  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronuuciatiun,"  with  the  occompanyLag  £xplanatioul^ 


MEL 


239 


MEX 


fairy  Meliisina.  The  name,  passing 
into  French  and  En^'lish  literatun;  as 
a  poetical  title,  has  linally  become  a 
recognized  Christian  name. 

Mellifluous  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
MtUijltiaa.l  An  ai)pellation  given  to 
St.  Bernard,  a  celebrated  and  elo- 
quent jjreacher  and  theologian  of  the 
twelfth  century.  His  writings  were 
termed  by  his  admirers  '*  a  river  of 
paradise." 

Mel'mSth,  Coiirt'ney.  A  pseudo- 
nym of  Samuel  .lackson  Pratt  (1741)- 
1814),  in  his  day  a  popular  poet,  and 
a  voluminous -writer  both  in  prose  and 
verse.  He  was  originally  a  strolling 
player,  next  an  itinerant  lecturer, 
and  finally  a  Bath  book-seller. 

Mel-pom'e-ne.  [Gr.  yUKirou.ivy].']  ( Gr. 
c^-  Rom.  Mijtlt.)  One  of  the  ]Muses; 
the  one  who  presided  over  tragedy. 
See  ]\IrsES. 

MePu-si'na.  [Fr.  Melusine.]  A 
daughter  of  the  fairy  Pressina,  by 
Elenas,  king  of  Albania;  the  most 
renowned  of  the  French  fairies.  Her 
origin  may  be  traced  to  the  Teutonic 
"Amalaswinth."  She  was  condenuied 
to  become  every  Saturday  a  serpent 
from  the  waist  downward,  as  a  pun- 
ishment for  having,  by  means  of  a 
charm,  inclosed  her  father  in  a  high 
mountain,  in  order  to  avenge  an  in- 
jury her  mother  had  received  from 
him.  She  married  Kaymond,  Count 
of  Poitiers,  and,  having  been  seen 
by  him  during  her  loathsome  trans- 
fonnation,  —  in  violation  of  his  sol- 
emn promise  never  to  visit  her  on  a 
Saturday,  —  was  immured  in  a  sub- 
terranean dungeon  of  the  castle  of 
Lusignan.  The  traditions  concern- 
ing Melusina  were  collected  by  Jean 
d'Arras,  near  the  close  of  the  four- 
teenth century. 

jg®=-  The  Melusine  tradition  ]ino;ers 
around  the  castle  of  Lusij^nau,  near  Poi- 
tiers, and  to  this  day,  at  the  fairs  of  that 
city,  gingerbread  cakes  ai'e  sold  with 
human  head  and  serpent  tail,  and  called 
MHusijifS.  A  rri  de  Melusine  is  a  pro- 
verbial expression  for  a  sudden  scream, 
recalling  that  rvith  which  the  unfortunate 
fair  one  discovered  the  indiscretion  of  her 
lord. 
Mem'non.      [Gr.   Mejavtoi/.]      ( Gv.  if 


Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Tithonus 
and  Aurora,  and  king  of  Ethiopia. 
After  the  tall  of  Hector,  he  went  to 
the  assistance  of  his  uncle  Priam, 
with  ten  thousand  men,  and  dis])layed 
great  courage  in  llie  defense  of  Troy, 
but  was  at  length  slain  by  Ajax,  or 
by  Achilles,  in  single  combat,  where- 
upon he  was  changed  into  a  bird  by 
his  mother,  or,  as  some  sa}',  at  her 
reipicst. 

lUr  The  colossal  black  statue  of  the 
Egyptian  king  Amenophis  111.,  in  tho 
neighborhood  of  Thebes,  was  called  by 
the  Greeks  the  statue  of  Memnon,  and  a 
sound  like  that  of  a  breaking  lute-string 
which  it  gave  forth  when  struck  by  the 
first  be.ims  of  the  sun.  they  regarded  as 
Memnon"s  greeting  to  his  mother.  The 
sound  has  been  heard  in  modern  times, 
and  has  been  variously  ascribed  to  the 
artifice  of  the  priests  who  concealed  them- 
selves in  a  niche  and  with  an  iron  rod 
struck  the  sonorous  stone  of  which  the 
statue  is  composed ;  to  the  pas.sage  of 
light  draughts  of  air  through  the  cracks  ; 
and  to  the  sudden  expansion  of  inclosed 
aqueous  particles  under  the  intluence  of 
the  sun's  rays. 

As  from  ieolian  harps  in  the  breath  of  dawn, 
as  from  the  MemnorCs  statue  struck  by  the 
rosy  finger  of  Aurora,  iinearthlv  music  was 
around  "liini,  and  lapped  him  mto  untried, 
balmy  rest.  Carhjle. 

Soft  as  Memnon'n  harp  at  morning, 
To  the  inward  eye  devout, 

Touched  with  liglit  by  heavenly  warning, 
Your  transporting  chords  ring  out.    Kehle. 

Me-nal'ca.s.  [Gr.  Me^aAKa?.]  A  shep- 
herd in  Theocritus  and  Virgil ;  hence 
any  shepherd  or  rustic.  Menalcas 
figures  in  Spenser's  "'  Shepherd's 
Calendar"  as  the  treacherous  rival 
of  Colin  Clout. 

Spend  some  months  j'et  among  the  sheep- 
walks  of  Cuuiberland;  learn  all  yon  can,  from 
all  the  shepherds  you  can  lind,  —  froui  Thyrsis 
to  Menalcas.  Sir  E.  Bulwer  Lytton. 

Men'e-la'uS.       [Gr.    Mei-eAao?.]      {(h\ 

tf  Roiti.  Jfi/fh.)  A  son  of  Atreus,  the 
brother  of  Agamemnon,  and  the  luis- 
band  of  Helen,  who  eloped  from  him 
witli  Paris,  and  thus  brought  on  the 
Trojan  -war.  ^Nlenelaus  toolv  part  in 
the  contest,  and  behaved  with  great 
spirit  and  courage.  See  Helen  and 
Pakis. 

Me-noe'tes.  The  pilot  of  the  ship 
"  Chinuera,"  which  took  part  in  tha 
naval  contest  at  Drepannm,  in  Sici- 
ly, where  ^Eneas  celebrated  the  lirst 


and  for  the  Remaa-ka  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MEN 


240 


MER 


anniversary  of  his  father's  death  by 
various  i;ainis  and  feats  of  skill. 
For  liis  timidity  in  staiidinj^  out  from 
the  siiore,  in  order  to  avoid  certain 
hidden  rocks,  and  thereby  allowing 
the  •' Cliima'ra  ■'  to  he  l)eaten,  (iyas, 
the  connuander  of  tiie  ve>sel,  hurled 
him  headlong-  into  the  sea,  ji,reatly  to 
the  amusement  of  the  spectators. 

Men'tor.  [(!r.  MeVriop.]  (Gr.  ^j' Rom. 
M !///(. )  A  friend  of  Ulysses  in  Ith- 
aca, whose  form  Minerva  assumed,  to 
tjive  instructions  to  L'ly.sses's  son  Te- 
lemacluis,  -whom  she  accompanied  to 
Pylos  and  Lacedivmon. 

With  Friedrieh  Wilhelm,  who  is  his  second 
cousin  (iiiothcM-'s  gnnd-iipphew,  if  the  reader 
can  count  that),  lie  [Leopold,  prince  of  Anhal'- 
Dessau]  is  from  of  old  on  the  best  footing,  aud 
contrives  to  be  his  Mentor  in  inauj'  things 
beside  war.  Oirhjle. 

^e-phis'to.  The  same  as  Jftphis- 
tojj/itUs.     See  infra. 

Meph'is-toph'e-les.  One  of  the 
seven  chief  devils  in  the  old  demon- 
ology,  the  second  of  the  fallen  arch- 
angels, and  the  most  powerful  of  the 
infernal  legions  after  Satan.  He  fig- 
ures in  the  old  legend  of  Dr.  Faustus 
as  the  familiar  spirit  of  that  renowned 
magician,  and,  in  former  times,  his 
nauie  was  commonly  used  as  a  term 
of  jocular  reproach.  To  modern  read- 
ers he  is  chiefly  known  as  the  cold, 
scoffing,  relentless  fiend  of  Goethe's 
"  Faust,"  and  as  the  attendant  de- 
mon in  Marlowe's  "  Faustus."  See 
F'aust. 

iKS"  The  name  was  formerly  written 
Mcphosfophiliis  and  Mi //hosiophilis  ;  tiie 
former  spelling  heing  that  of  .Shakespeai-e 
(see  ''  Merry  Wive^'  of  Windsor."  a.  i.,  sc. 
1),  and  the  latter  that  adopted  by  Mar- 
lowe. Tlie  origin  of  tlie  word  is  uncer- 
tain ;  various  derivations  have  been  pro- 
posed. By  some  it  is  thought  to  be  derived 
from  a  Semitic  tongue.  (See  Uoethe"s 
'•  lirietVechsel  mit  Zelter."  v.  330.)  \\  id- 
man  calls  it  a  Persian  name.  But  that 
etymology  which  refers  it  to  the  Greek 
fjL-q,  not,  (f)oj?,  (^ojTo?,  liglit,  and  <J)l\o<;, 
loving,  accords  with  the  old  orthogra- 
phy, and  is  the  most  plausible  of  all. 

J^^  '•  There  is  an  awful  melancholy 
about  JIarlowe'sMephistoplieles.  perhaps 
more  expressive  than  tiie  malignant 
niirtii  of  that  fiend  in  the  renowned 
work  of  Goethe."'  Hallnm. 

ij£^  '•  Mephistopheles  comes  before  us, 


not  arrayed  in  the  terrors  of  Cocytus  ana 
I'ldegetiion,  hut  with  natural  iudelibln 
deformity  ot  wickedness,  lie  is  the  Devil, 
not  of  superstition,  but  ot  knowledge. 
Such  a  combination  of  perfect  under- 
Standing  with  perfect  seltishi.ess.  of  logi- 
cal life  witii  moral  death,  so  universal  a 
denier  both  in  heart  .-ind  head,  is  un- 
doubtedly a  cliild  of  Darkne.s-s,  an  tmi.s- 
sary  of  the  primeval  Nothing,  and  may 
stand  in  his  merely  s))iritual  (ielbrmity, 
at  once  potent,  dangerous,  and  contempt- 
ible, as  the  best  and  only  genuine  Devil 
of  these  latter  times."  Carli/U. 

Piiets  of  the  first  order  might  safely  write  ai 
desperately  as  MejihiMojiheles  rode. 

ilacaulay. 

We  have  here  [in  the  literature  of  the  Res- 
toration] IJelial,  not  as  when  he  insjiiied  Ovid 
and  Ariosto,  "graceful  and  humane,"  but 
with  the  iron  eye  and  cruel  sneer  of  JA'y /((»■- 
topheles.  JIacatilay. 

These  are  the  fields  of  History  wliich  are  to 
be,  so  soon  as  humanly  possible,  su])j))essed; 
which  only  JIc}ihi.<tojiliel('^,  or  tlie  Bad  Genius 
of  mankind,  can  contemplate  M'itli  pleasure. 

Carlyle. 

Mer'cta-rj^(4).  [Lat.  Mercurius.]  (Gr. 
c)'-  Rum.  Myth.)  The  son  of  Jupiter 
and  3Iaia,  the  messenger  of  the  gods, 
particularly  of  Jupiter,  the  inventor 
of  letters,  the  conductor  of  departtd 
souls  to  the  under-world,  and  the  g(.d 
of  eloquence,  commerce,  thieves,  ai,d 
travelers. 

Mer-cu'ti-o  (mer-ku'shi-o).  A  friend 
to  Komeo,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy' 
of  "  Komeo  and  Juliet,''  and  the  ])o  - 
trait  of  a  finished  tine  gentleman  of 
his  time. 

vKS"  "  Wit  ever  wakeful,  fancy  busy 
and  procreative  as  an  insect,  courage,  an 
easy  mind,  that,  without  cares  of  its  own, 
is  at  once  disposed  to  laugh  away  those  of 
others,  and  yet  to  be  interested  in  them ,  — 
these  and  all  congenial  qualities,  melting 
into  the  common  copula  of  them  all.  the 
man  of  rank  and  the  gentleman,  with  all 
its  excellences  and  all  its  weaknes.«es,  con- 
stitute the  character  ot  Mercutio." 

Coleridge. 

MSr'e-dith,  Owen.  A  pseudonym 
adopted  by  Edward  Robert  Bidwer 
Lytton  (b.  IS'Jl),  a  popular  living 
English  poet,  and  a  lineal  descendant 
of  Oirtn  (iwynnedd  ap  Gritbth,  king 
of  North  ^^'ales.  and  of  Mertdith  ap 
Tudor,  great-grandfather  of  Henry 
YH.  of  England. 

Merlin  (4).  A  famous  magician  of 
alleged  supernatiu'al  origin,  contetn- 
porary  with  King  Arthur,  celebrated 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pi-onuneiation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


MER 


241 


MES 


in  the  tales  and  romances  of  chiA'alry', 
in  Spenser's  "■  I'aery  Queen,"  and  in 
the  ronuintie  poems  of  Italy.  He  is 
said  to  iiave  removed,  l»y  a  wonder- 
ful machiue  of  his  own  invention,  the 
Giants'-  daiiee,  now  called  .Stone- 
heni;-e,  from  Ireland  to  Salisbury 
Plain  in  ICnicland,  where  part  of  it  is 
still  staudinn'.  The  old  legends  rec- 
ognize two  persons  of  tliis  name,  one 
connected  with  the  traditions  of  Scot- 
land, the  otiier  with  those  of  Wales; 
but  the  essential  I'eatures  of  both  are 
the  same. 

jg®^  The  manner  of  Merlin's  death  is 
Tarioiisly  relateil.  AccoriUng  to  one  ac- 
count, he  was  im-loseil  in  a  tiawthorn- 
bush  by  his  mistress,  tlie  fairy  Vivian 
(the  Ladv  of  the  Lalce),  by  means  of  a 
charm  which  he  had  communicated  to 
her.  Not  believing  in  the  spell,  she  tried 
it  upon  her  lover,  and  found  to  her  g;rief 
and  astonishment  that  he  could  not  bo 
extricateil  from  his  thorny  coverture. 

Brengwaiii  was  there,  and  Sa^jramore, 
Aiul  tield-born  Merlin's  griammarye; 
Of  that  funed  wizard's  niijrlity  love. 
Oh  who  could  sing  but  he!       Sir  IV.  Scott. 
He  [Bacon]  .  .  .  knew,  tliat,  if  his  words 
sank  deep  hi  to  tlie  minds  of  men,  they  would 
produce  effects  such  as  superstition  had  never 
ascribed  to    the  incantations  of  Merlin  and 
Auchael  Scott  Macaulay. 

M6r'ope.  [Gr.  Mepon-q.']  {Gr.  if 
liuii.  Myth.)  1.  One  of  the  Pleia- 
des, whose  star  is  dimmer  than  the 
rest,  because  she  wedded  Sisyphus,  a 
mortal. 

2.  See  (Enopion. 

M6r'ri-lies,  Meg.  A  half-crazy  gypsy, 
who  is  a  prominent  and  celebrated 
character  in  Scott's  novel  of  "Guy 
Manner]  ng." 

;8Eg=-  "  She  is  most  akin  to  the  witches 
of  Macbeth,  with  some  traits  of  the  an- 
cient sibyl  ingrafted  on  the  coarser  stock 
of  a  gypsy  of  the  last  century.  Though 
not  absolutely  in  nature,  however,  .«lie 
must  be  allowed  to  be  a  very  imposing 
and  emphatic  personage,  and  to  be  min- 
gled, both  with  the  business  and  the 
scenery  of  the  piece,  with  the  greatest 
possible  skill  and  etfect."       Lord  Jeffrnj. 

MSr'ri-man,  Mr.  A  name  given  to  a 
zany,  or  attendant  upon  a  mounte- 
bank at  fairs,  in  market-places,  and 
on  village  greens.  It  is,  perhaps,  of 
the  same  origin  as  Meny-andrew. 

Merry- Aiidre"W.    A  name  given  orig- 


inally to  Andrew  Borde  (1500-1540"), 
a  man  of  learning,  and  a  noted  itin- 
erant physician,  who,  as  llearne  tells 
us,  freiiuented  "■  nuirkets  and  fairs, 
where  a  conflux  of  people  ustul  to  get 
together,  to  whom  he  prescrilu-il-, 
and,  to  induce  them  to  tlock  thither 
the  more  readily,  he  would  make  hu- 
morous sj)eeches,  couched  in  such 
language  as  caused  mirth,  and  won- 
derfully propagated  his  fame."  From 
him,  any  buffoon  or  zany,  especially 
one  who  attends  upon  a  mountebank 
or  ((uack  doctor,  is  called  a  Meny- 
andrew. 
Merry  England.  A  common  desig- 
nation of  England,  which  is  so  called, 
not  on  account  of  the  merry-makings 
of  the  inhabitants,  but  in  the  old 
sense  of  the  word  merry,  that  is, 
pleasant,  agreeable.  In  this  sense  we 
speak  of  the  ''  merry  month  of  May ;  " 
and  in  this  sense  Wakefield  and  Car- 
lisle were  formerly  termed  merry,  and 
Spenser  spoke  of  "  merry  London," 
and  Chaucer  of  a 

"  citee 
That  stood  full  inei-nj  upon  a  haven  side." 

Merry  Monarch.  A  title  by  which 
King  Charles  II.  of  England  (IfioO- 
1685)  was  in  former  times  lamiliarly 
known. 

Mersenne,  The  English.  See  Eng. 
Lisa  Meksenne. 

Mer'ton,  Toramy  (-tn,  4).  One  of  the 
principal  characters  in  a  very  popu- 
lar juvenile  work  wiitten  bv  Thomas 
Day  (1748-178.J),  and  entit'led  "The 
History  of  Sandfonl  and  Merton." 

Me'ru(9).  {Hindu  .Ifyth.)  A  sacred 
mountain,  80,000  leagues  high,  sit- 
uated in  the  center  of  the  world.  It 
is  the  abode  of  Intlra,  and  abounds 
Avith  every  chann  that  can  be  imag- 
ined. 

Merveilleurefmei-'vaPyoz',  43).  [Fr., 
Avondei-ful.]  Tiie  name  of  the  sword 
of  Doolin  ofMayence.  It  was  mag- 
ically sharpened,  and  was  so  keen, 
that,  when  placed  edge  downward  on 
a  large  tripod,  its  mere  Aveight  was 
sufficient  to  cut  the  tripod  through. 
See  DooLix  of  M.WEXCE. 

Mes'o-po-ta'mi-a.  A  name  popularly 
given  by  Londoners  to  the  Warwick 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pj^.  xiv-xiiLL 
IG 


MET 


242 


MID 


and  Eccleston  Square  districts  in  that 
city.    [Called  al.-«(>  Cub'Uopuds.] 

Me'tis.  [(ir.  M»/Tts.]  ( (jr.  cf  Rom. 
Mijtli.)  A  (laii^diter  of  Oceaiius  and 
TJtliys,  the  lirst  wile  of  Jupiter,  and 
tlie  ^(Kides-s  ul'  prudewee. 

Me-zen'ti-us  (-shi-us)  A  tyrant  of 
Ca-'re,  or  Ayylla,  a  qWy  of  Etruria. 
He  was  expelled  by  his  subject?;  on 
account  oi  liis  cruelties,  and  tied  to 
Turn  us,  who  employed  him  in  his 
■war  again>t  .Eneas,  by  whom  he  was 
slain.  Virgil  calls  hnu  "a  despiser 
of  the  yodis." 

Like  ilezentiwt  ...  he  [Bonaparte]  ought 
ti  have  ackiiowledjjcd  no  otlicr  source  of  Tiis 
authority  [thau  his  taleutji  autl  his  swordj. 

^'iy  W.  Scott. 

Mez'zo-ra'mi-a  ( It.  pmn.  med-zo-ra''- 
me-a).  The  name  of  an  imaginary 
country  in  the  heart  of  the  de.serts  of 
Africa,'  inaccessible  except  by  one 
particular  road,  and  unknown  to  the 
rest  of  the  world.  Gaudentio  di 
Lucca,  in  the  romance  of  that  name, 
is  represented  as  having  visited  it, 
and  as  residing  there  tor  twenty-tive 
years.  It  is  described  as  a  terrestrial 
paradise,  and  its  government,  laws, 
and  customs  are  highly  commended. 
See  Gauoentio  di  Llxca. 

Mi-caw'ber,  Mr.  "Wilkins.  A  prom- 
inent and  celebrated  character  in 
Dickens's  novel  of  "  David  Copper- 
lield;"  noted  for  his  long  speeches, 
ambitious  style,  love  of  letter-writ- 
ing, alternate  elevation  and  depres- 
sion of  spirits,  hearty  appetite,  reck- 
less improvidence,  and  everlasting 
troubles,  and  for  his  constantly 
*' waiting  for  something  to  turn  up." 
/iC^  "  There  never  was  a  Mr,  INIicawber 
in  nature,  exactly  as  he  appears  in  the 
paj^e-*  of  Dickens;  but  .Micawberisni  per- 
vades nature  tlirough  and  through  ;  and 
to  have  this  quality  from  nature  embody- 
ing the  full  essence  of  a  thousand  in- 
ptances  of  it  in  one  ideal  monstrosity,  is  a 
feat  of  invention."'  Mnsson. 

Who  does  not  venerate  the  chief  of  that  il- 
lustrious f.imily,  who,  hcinn;  stricken  by  mis- 
fortune, wisely  and  gre-itly  tn>-ned  his  atten- 
tion to  "coals,"  —  the  accomplished,  the  Epi- 
curean, the  dirty,  the  delightful  Mir-nwherf 

Thackeray. 

Mi'cM-el  (rnllorj.  nit'kol^.  The  name 
of  an  archangel,  mentioned  in  the 
Bible  as  having  special  charge  of  the 


I.sraelites  a.s  a  nation  (  Dan.  x.  13,21), 
as  disj)uting  with  Satan  al)out  the 
body  of  iMiises  {.Jik/l-  iJ),  and  as  car- 
rying on  war,  with  the  assistance  of 
his  angels,  against  Satan  and  his 
fori-e.s  in  the  ujj[)er  regions  {Jttr.  xii. 
7-y).  Micliael  figures  largely  in 
Milton's  "  l^aradise  Lost,"  being  sent 
witli  Gabriel  to  battle  against  Satan 
and  his  angels,  and  also  witli  a  band 
of  cherubim,  to  Paradise,  to  disjjos- 
sess  Adam  and  Eve,  and  to  tbretell  to 
thon  what  should  hajjpen  till  the 
time  of  the  coming  of  Christ. 

Upwards  of  a  century  .  .  .  must  elapse,  .  .  . 
and  the  Moloch  of  iniquity  have  his  victims, 
and  tlie  Mic/incl  of  justice  fiis  martyrs,  before 
Tailors  can  be  admitted  to  their  true  prerog- 
atives of  manhood,  and  this  laist  wound  ot 
sutiuriug  humanity  be  closed.  Carlyle. 

Michael,  Cousin.  See  Cousin  Mi- 
chael. 

Mi'chi-el  An'ge-lo  of  France.  [Fr. 
Miclitl-Anc/e  de  Id  Franct.]  A  title 
bestowed  upon  Pierre  Puget  {lC,2-i- 
1094),  a  famous  French  statuary, 
painter,  and  architect,  remarkable, 
like  his  illustrious  namesake,  for  his 
enthusiasm  and  decision  of  character 

Mi'das.  [Gr.  MiSa?.]  (6';-.  <f-  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  king  of  Phrygia,  son  of 
Gordius  and  Cybele.  Bacchus  gave 
him  the  power  of  tiu-ning  whatever 
he  touched  into  gold;  but  this  proved 
to  be  very  inconvenient,  as  it  pre- 
A'ented  him  from  eating  and  drink- 
ing, and  he  prayed  that  the  gift 
might  be  revoked.  At  the  command 
of  the  god,  he  washed  in  the  Pacto- 
lus,  the  sands  of  whicii  became  in 
consequence  mixed  with  gold.  An- 
other tradition  is,  that,  in  a  musical 
contest  between  Pan  and  Apollo,  lu; 
adjudged  the  victory  to  the  former, 
and  Apollo,  in  revenge,  changed  his 
ears  into  those  of  an  ass.  Midas 
tried  to  conceal  them  luidcr  his 
Phrvgian  oa]\  but  they  were  discov- 
ered by  his  .servant. 

Middle  Ages.  A  term  applied,  rather 
vaguely,  to  the  great  historic  period 
between  the  times  of  classical  antiq- 
uity and  modern  times,  in  which  tlie 
feudal  system  was  formed,  chivalry 
rose,  flourished,  and  declined,  the 
Church  extended  its  bounds  and  ac- 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explaaation^ 


MID 


243 


MIL 


quired  enormous  wealth  and  power, 
and  the  nations  of  modern  Europe 
had  their  origin  and  began  to  develop 
their  respeetive  poHtieal  and  soeiai 
systems.  "It  is  not  possible,"  says 
Hallam,  "'  to  hx  accurate  limits  to  the 
Middle  Ages.  The  ten  centuries 
I'rom  the  htth  to  the  lit'teenth  seem, 
in  a  general  ])oint  of  view,  to  consti- 
tute tliat  period."  The  overthrow  of 
the  Western  lioman  Empire,  in  the 
year  47(5,  is  manifestly  the  termi- 
nation vt'  ancient  history,  and  as  the 
Reformation  (which  began  in  1517) 
is  the  most  convenient  epoch  from 
which  to  date  the  commencement 
of  modern  history,  these  events  are 
pretty  generally  regarded  as  mark- 
ing the  beginning  and  close  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  [('ailed  also,  from  the 
prevalent  superstition  and  ignorance, 
the  JJidk  Afjts.] 

JMiddle  Kingdom.     A  translation  of 

T(  lidiKj-kiHH',  a  name  given  to  China 
by  the  natives,  from  an  idea  that  it  is 
situated  in  the  center  of  the  earth. 

Middle  States.  A  popular  designa- 
tion of  the  States  of  New  York,  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  ^Maryland,  and 
Delaware,  from  their  having  been  in 
reality,  at  the  time  of  the  fornuition 
of  the  Federal  Constitution,  the  cen- 
tral States  of  the  American  Union. 
By  some  Avriters,  Mar}  land  is  classed 
as  a  Southern,  and  not  a  Middle  State. 

Mid'gard.  [That  is,  middle  ward.] 
( Scnntl.  Mijfh. )  A  name  given  to  the 
earth,  as  being  in  the  middle  region 
between  Asgard  und  Utgard. 

Mid-Lothian,  Heart  of.  See  Heart 

OF  I\l ID- Lothian. 
Miggs,  Miss.     Mrs.   Yarden's   maid, 

in    Dickens's   novel    of    "  liarnaby 

Kudge." 

4®"  "  She  is  an  elderly  maiden,  who, 
by  some  stranire  neglect  on  the  part  of 
mankind,  has  been  allowed  to  remain  un- 
married. This  netrlectmiglit,  in  some  .small 
degree,  be  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that 
her  person  and  disposition  came  within 
the  range  of  Mr.  T;ippertifs  epithet  of 
^scraprgy.'  She  had  various  ways  of 
wreaking  her  hatred  upon  the  other  sex, 
the  most  cruel  of  which  was  in  often 
honoring  them  with  her  company  and 
discourse.      .  .  .  Dickens,  in  this  charac-  i 


ter,  well  repre.sents  how  such  .<!eemingly 

insiguifjcant  malignauts  as  i'\li>s  Migga 
can  become  tlie  pest  of  families  ;  and 
that,  though  full  of  sveakt)c.><s  and  malig- 
nity, they  can  bo  proud  of  their  virtue 
aud  religion,  and  make  slander  the  prom- 
inent element  of  their  pious  conversa- 
tion." J£.  P.   Whijrple. 

Overflowing  with  a  humor  as  pt'culiar  in 
its  way  as  the  humors  of  Andrew  Fair.ser- 
vioc,  or  ii  Protestant  J//.s.s  .l/(V/(/s  (that  imper- 
sonation of  shrewish  female  service). 

Zone/.  Aihenccwn. 

Mignon  (men'yo"',  G2).  The  name 
of  a  young  Italian  girl  in  Goethe's 
•'  Wilhelm  Meister's  Apprentice- 
ship; "  rei)resented  as  beautiful  aud 
dwarfish,  unaccountable,  and  full  of 
sensibility,  and  secretly  in  love  with 
Wilhelm,  who  is  her  protector,  and 
Avho  leels  lor  her  nothing  but  com- 
mon kindness  and  compassion.  She. 
at  last,  becomes  insane,  and  dies  the 
victim  of  her  hopeless  attachment. 

i8®"  "  This  mysterious  child,  at  first 
neglected  by  the  render,  gradually  forced 
on  his  attention,  at  length  overpowers 
him  with  an  emotion  more  deep  and 
thrilling  than  any  poet,  since  the  days 
of  Shakespeare,  has  succeeded  in  pro- 
ducing. The  davighter  of  enthusiasm, 
rapture,  passion,  and  despair,  she  is  of 
earth,  but  not  earthy.  When  she  glides 
before  us  through  the  mnzes  of  her  fairy 
dance,  or  whirls  her  tambourine,  and 
hurries  round  us  like  an  antique  Maenad, 
we  could  almost  fancy  her  a  spirit,  so 
pure  is  she,  so  full  of  fervor,  so  disen- 
gaged from  the  clay  of  this  world." 

Carlyle. 

Mil 'an  Decree.  {Fr.Hht.)  A  decree 
of  the  Emperor  Napoleon  Bonaparte, 
dated  at  xAlilan  on  the  27th  of  Decem- 
ber, 1807,  which  declared  the  wdiole 
British  dominions  to  be  in  a  state  of 
blockade,  and  prohibited  all  countries 
from  trading  with  each  other  in  any 
articles  of  British  produce  or  manu- 
tacture. 

Mil'la-mant,  Mrs.  A  celebrated  char- 
acter in  Congreve's  comedy,  "'The 
Way  of  the  \\'orld." 

Benedick  and  Beatrice  throw  Mirabel  and 
Millaiaant  into  the  shade.  Mucttulaij. 

Mill-boy  of  the  Slashes.  A  sobri- 
quet conferred  upon  Henry  Clay 
( I777-1852),  a  distinguished'  Amer- 
ican orator  and  statesman,  who  was 
barn  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  place 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  word*  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MIL 


244 


MIR 


in  Hanover  County.  Virginia,  known 
as  "  the  Slashes  "  (a  local  term  tor  a 
low,  swampy  country),  where  there 
was  a  mill,  to  which  he  was  often 
sent  on  errands  when  a  boy. 
Miller,  Joe.     See  Fathek  of  .Je.st.s. 

Milo.  [(rr.  MtAoji'.]  An  athlete  of 
Criito.ia.  famous  for  his  extraordinary 
stron;,^th.  In  liis  old  age,  he  attempt- 
ed to  rend  the  trunk  of  a  tree  which 
had  been  partially  split  ojten  ;  Ijutthe 
wood  closed  upon  his  hands,  and 
held  him  last,  in  which  state  he  was 
attacked  and  devoured  l)y  wolves. 

He  who  of  old  would  rend  the  oak 

Deemed  not  of  the  rebound: 
Chained  by  the  trunk  he  vainly  broke. 

Alone,  how  looked  he  round!  Byron. 

Mimir  (me'mef).  [Scand.  Mi/fli.)  The 
god  of  elo  juence  and  wisdom.  He 
was  the  guardian  of  a  well  in  which 
wit  and  wisdom  lay  hidden,  and  of 
which  he  drank  every  morning  Irom 
the  horn  GJallar.  Odin  once  drank 
from  this  fountain,  and  by  doing  so 
became  the  wisest  of  gods  and  men ; 
but  he  purchased  the  privilege  and 
distinction  at  the  cost  of  one  eye, 
which  Mimir  exacted  from  him. 
[Written  also  Mimer.] 

Mimuag  (nie'm()bng).  The  name  of 
a  wonderful  sword  lent  by  AVittich  to 
Siegfried.     See  Siegfiiied. 

Mi-ner'va  (4).  ( '';/•.  (/•  Rom.  Mijlh.) 
The  goddess  of  wisdom,  poetry,  spin- 
ning, weaving,  and  the  various  arts 
and  sciences.  She  was  not  born  like 
others,  but  sprang  forth  fully  armetl 
from  the  brain  of  Jove. 

Minerva  Press.  The  name  of  a 
printing  establishment  in  Leadenhall 
Street,  London,  from  which,  during 
the  latter  par*^  of  tlie  last  century  and 
the  early  part  of  the  prc'^ent  century, 
was  issued  a  large  number  of  mawk- 
ish and  trashy,  but  very  popular 
novels,  which  were  widelv  distriljuted 
by  means  of  the  circulating  libraries. 
Charles  Lamb  describes  their  heroes 
as  *•  persons  neither  of  this  world, 
nor  of  any  conceivable  one ;  an  end- 
less string  ot"  activities  without  pur- 
pose, of  purpo-ies  without  a  motive." 

In  this  respect.  Burns,  thnujih  not  perhaps 
absolutely  a.  jrrf at  jioet,  lietter  manifested  hi^^ 
capabilit.v,   better    proved    the    truth    of  his 


genius,  than  if  he  had,  by  his  own  strength, 
kept  the  whole  Mimrra  Prexs  going  to  the 
end  of  his  literary  course.  Curliilc. 

Scarcely  in  the  Minerva  Press  is  there  rec- 
ord of  such  surprising,  iutinite,  and  inextri- 
cable obstructions  to  a  wedding  or  a  double 
wedding.  Carli/le. 

Min'na.  One  of  the  heroines  in  Scott's 
novel  of  "The  Pirate;"  sister  to 
Brenda.  She  is  distinguished  by  a 
credulous  simplicity  and  sober  vanity, 
and  by  talents,  strong  feelings,  and 
high-minded  enthusiasm. 

Mi'nSs.  [Gr.  Mtro,?.]  {Gr.  cf  Rom. 
^fyth.)  A  i<on  of  .Jupiter  and  Kuropa, 
the  l)rother  of  Rhadamauthus,  and 
the  lather  of  Deucalion  and  Ariadne. 
He  was  a  king  and  lawgiver  in  Crete, 
and  so  distinguished  lor  his  incor- 
ruptible justice,  that,  atU'r  death,  he 
was  made  supreme  j  udge  in  the  lower 
world. 

Min'o-taiir.  [Lat.  Minntnurus,  Gr. 
Mtijjxat'oo?,  bull  of  Minos.]  {G7'.  ^ 
Rom.  Mjjth.)  A  celebrated  monster 
with  the  head  of  a  bidl  and  the  body 
of  a  man.  the  fruit  of  l'asiphae"s  most 
inmatural  passion  for  a  bull.  He  was 
shut  up  in  the  Cretan  labyrinth,  and 
fed  with  yoimg  men  and  maidens 
whom  Athens  was  obliged  to  sujijily 
every  year,  until  Theseus  linally 
killed  him  with  the  help  of  Ariadne. 
See  Akiadne  and  The.seus. 

Minstrel  of  the  Border.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  Sir  Walter  Scott. 
See  lioKDicn  ^NIinstukl. 

Once  mcfro  by  Newark's  castle  gate, 

I/on^  left  without  a  wardei. 
I  stood,  looked,  listened,  and  with  thee. 
Great  JIiii.<frel  0/ the  Border.     TVoruj^worih. 

Mirabeau-Tonneau.     See  Bakkel- 

MlKAUKAU. 

Mir'a-bel.  1.  A  traveled  Monsieur  in 
Beaumont  and  Tletcher's  "  Wild- 
goose  Chase :  "  represented  as  a  great 
detier  of  all  ladies  in  the  way  of  mar- 
riage, and  a  very  dissipated  and  licen- 
tious fellow. 

2.  The  name  of  two  characters 
in  Farquhar's  comedy.  "  The  Incon- 
stant." —  an  old  gentleman  and  his 
son;  the  former  of  an  odd  compound 
between  the  pe<nishness  incident  to 
his  years  and  his  fatherly  fondne^^s 
for  his  son;  the  latter  an  incorrigible 
debauchee. 


Q^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Sohem**  of  P-^nviC  ation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanations, 


MIR 


245 


MIS 


studded  with  countless  islands,  the 
abodes  of  the  blessed,  Ibnns  the  sub- 
ject of  a  celebrated  allegory  in  No. 
15D  of  the  "  Spectator." 

The  massive  and  ancient  bridal!  vliich 
stretches  across  the  (.'l.\ de  was  now  hut  dimly 
visible,  and  resenililed  that  whieli  Mirza,  in 
his  une(iualed  vision,  lias  described  as  trav- 
ersing tiie  valley  ot  ilagdad.  ^ir  ]V.  Scott. 

Such  strains  of  rapture  as  the  jjenins  played 
In  his  still  haunt  on  Hagdad's  snininit  high; 
He  who  stood  visible  to  Mirz'i's  eye, 
Never  before  to  human  si<rht  bitiayed. 
]><i!  in  the  vale,  the  mists  of  evening  spreadi 
The  visionary  arches  are  not  there. 
Nor  the  green  islands,  nor  the  shining  seae. 
Wordsivorth. 
Then  is  Monmouth   Street  a  Mirza'n  hill, 
where,  in   motley  vision,  the  whole  pageant 
of  existence  jiasses  awfully  before  us,  with  its 
wail  nndjiibilee,  mad  loves  and  mad  hatreds, 
ehnrch-bells  and  gallows-ropes,  farce-tragedj', 
beast-godhood,  —  the  Bedlam  of  creation. 

Carlyle. 
Vales,  soft,  Elysian, 
Like  those  in  the  vision 

Oi' Mirza,  when,  dreaming, 
He  STW  the  long  liollow  dell. 
Touched  by  the  jirophet's  spell. 
Into  an  ocean  swell. 

With  its  isles  teeming.  Whittier. 


He  sat  down  at  table  witli  them,  and  they 
began  to  drink  and  indulge  themselves  in 
gross  jokes,  while,  like  Miraoel,  ._  .  their 
prisoner  luut  the  heavy  task  of  receiving  their 
insolence  as  wit,  answering  theii-  insults  with 
good-humor,  and  \\  Ithholdin;:  tiDUi  them  the 
opportunity  whii'li  they  sought  of  engaging 
him  in  a  quarrel,  that  tiiey  might  have  a  pre- 
tence for  misusing  him.  Sir  H'.  Scott. 

Mir'a-bell.  A  character  in  Congreve's 
comedy,  ''  Tlie  Way  of  the  World." 

Miraculous  Child.  [Fr.  V  Enfant 
(III  Miracle.]  An  appellation  popu- 
larly given  to  Henri  Charles  Ferdi- 
nand INIarie  Dieudonne  d'Artois,  Due 
de  Bordeaux,  better  known  as  the 
Comte  de  Chanibord,  and  as  the  rep- 
resentative of  the  elder  branch  of  the 
house  of  Bourbon,  and  of  its  claims 
to  the  throne  of  France.  He  was  a 
posthumous  child  of  the  Duke  of 
Berri,  the  second  son  of  Charles  X., 
having  been  born  Sept.  21),  1820, 
nearly  seven  months  after  his  father's 
death.  As  presuinptive  heir  to  the 
crown,  his  birth  occasioned  great  re- 
joicing, and  he  was  christened  amid 
circumstances  of  unusual  pomp,  with 
Avater  brought  by  M.  de  Chtiteau- 
briand  from  the  I'iver  Jordan. 

Mir'a-m6nt.  An  honest  and  testy  old 
man,  in  Fletcher's  comedy  of  "  The 
Elder  Brother,"  who  admires  learn- 
ing without  much  more  of  it  than 
enables  him  to  sign  his  name. 

Miranda.  A  daughter  of  the  princely 
maiiician,  Prospero.  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Tempest;"  brought  up  on  a  desert 
island,  with  the  delicate  spirit  Ariel 
and  the  savage  and  deformed  Caliban 
for  her  only  attendants  and  acquaint- 
ances. Ferdinand,  the  son  of  the 
king  of  Naples,  having  been  ship- 
wrecked on  the  island,  falls  in  love 
with  her  at  once,  but  cannot  obtain 
her  father's  consent  to  their  imion 
till  he  has  proved  the  depth  and 
sincerity  of  his  affection  by  self- 
restraint,  obedience,  and  the  lowest 
menial  services. 

In  her  retired  chamber,  .  .  .  she  was  in 
fancy  .  .  .  identifyingherself  with  the  simple 
yet  noble-minded  Miranda,  in  the  isle  of 
wonder  and  enchantment.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Mir'za  (4).  An  imaginary  character, 
whose  wonderful  vision  of  the  tide 
of  time,  the  bridge  of  human  life, 
and  the  illimitable  ocean  of  eternity, 

and  for  the  Remarks  and  Biiies  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  [ip.  xiv-xxxii. 


Mississippi    Bubble.       See    Law's 

BUKRLE. 

Missouri  Compromise.  {Amer.  Hist. ) 
A  name  ])opularly  given  to  an  act  of 
congress  which  was  passed  in  1820, 
and  Avas  intended  to  reconcile  the 
two  great  sections  that  were  strug- 
gling, the  one  to  promote,  the  other 
to  hinder,  the  extension  of  slavery. 
By  this  act  it  was  determined  that 
INIissouri  should  be  admitted  into  the 
Union  as  a  slave-holding  State,  but 
that  slavery  should  never  be  estab- 
lished in  any  State,  to  be  formed  in 
the  future,  Iving  to  the  north  of  lat. 
30°  30/ . 

Mistress  of  the  Seas.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  (ireat  Britain,  on  ac- 
count of  her  naval  supremacy. 

In  the  War  of  ISll',  our  navy,  still  in  its  in- 
fmcy,  .  .  .  boldly  entered  the  lists  with  the 
IfiKtre.'is  of'tfir  Spos,  t\u(\  l)ore  away  the  palm 
from  many  a  gallant  enct)uriter.      £.  Everett. 

Mistress  of  the  "World.  A  common 
designation  of  ancient  Bome,  which 
was  for  centuries  the  grandest,  richest, 
and  most  j^opulous  of  European  cities, 
and  Avas  regarded  as  the  capital  of  a 
kind  of  tniiversal  empire. 

Mistress  Roper.     See  Roper,  Mis- 

TUESS. 


MIT 


24G 


MOD 


Mite,  Sir  Matthew.  A  noted  char- 
acter in  Fdote's  play  of  ''  The  Na- 
bob; "a  retiinit'd  Kast  India  mer- 
chant, repre^ented  as  disj-olute,  un- 
generous, tyrannical,  ashamed  of  the 
humble  friends  of  his  youth,  hating 
the  aristocracy,  yet  childishly  eager 
to  l)e  numbered  amongst  them, 
sfiuandering  his  wealth  on  panderers 
and  flatterers,  tricking  out  his  chair- 
men with  the  most  costly  hot-house 
flowers,  and  astounding  the  ignorant 
with  jargon  about  rupees,  lacs,  and 
jaghires. 

Sir  John  Malcolm  gives  us  a  letter  worthy 
of  Sir  Muttheiv  Mite,  in  which  Clive  orders 
"two  hundred  shirts,  the  best  and  finest  that 
can  be  got  for  love  or  money."         Jlacaulay. 

Mith'rSLs.  {Per.  Mylh.)  One  of  the 
principal  gods  of  the  ancient  Persians, 
a  personilication  of  the  sun.  He  was 
regarded  as  a  mediator  between  the 
two  opjjosite  deities,  Ormuzd  and 
Ahriman,  or  the  principle  of  good  and 
the  principle  of  evil. 

Miolnir  (m-ydl-'ner,  46).  [Probably 
from  Old  Norse  mtJja^  to  pound,  or 
maln^  to  grind.  Comp.  Eng.  mUl.'\ 
{Scnnrh  Myth.)  The  name  of  Thor's 
celebrated  hammer,  —  a  type  of  the 
tlumderbolt,  —  which,  however  far  it 
might  be  cast,  was  never  lost,  as  it 
always  returned  to  his  hand ;  and 
which,  whenever  he  wished,  became 
so  small  that  he  could  put  it  in  his 
pocket.  This  invalualde  weapon  was 
once  stolen  by  the  giant  Thrym,  who 
would  not  give  it  back  unless  he 
could  have  Freyja  for  a  bride;  but 
Thor  disguised  himself  in  the  god- 
dess's attire,  and  succeeded  in  re- 
covering it,  whereupt)n  he  killed 
Thrym  and  the  whole  giant  tribe. 
See  Thok. 

Mne-mos'y-ne  (ne-,  26).  [Gr.  Mi't?- 
Mocriii'T).]  {(jr.  (/•  Rom.  Myth.)  The 
goddess  of  memory,  and  the  mother 
of  the  Pluses. 

Mnes'theus  (nes'-,  26).  [Gr.  Mio/tr- 
0ev?.]  A  Trojan,  and  a  companion  of 
iEneas  in  Ins  voyage  to  Italy:  the 
reputed  progenitor  of  the  i'amily  of 
the  Memmii  in  Pome.  At  the  funer- 
al games  by  which  yEneas  celebrat- 
ed the  death  of  his  father  Anchises, 


^Incstheus  took  part  in  a  naval  con- 
test, and,  though  not  the  victor,  ob- 
tained a  i)rize  lor  skill  and  energy. 

Modern  Ar'is-toph'5-nes.  A  name 
assumed  by  Samuel  loote  (1720- 
1777),  a  celebrated  English  write'"  and 
actor  of  comedy.  [Called  also  A«^- 
iish  Aristojjhcmts.] 

Modern  Athens.  1.  A  name  often 
given  to  Edinburgh,  on  account  of 
its  many  noble  literary  institutions, 
the  taste  and  culture  of  the  people, 
the  many  distinguished  men  who 
have  issued  Irom  it  or  resided  in  it, 
and  the  high  character  of  its  publica- 
tions, and  also  on  account  of  a  marked 
resemblance  to  Athens  in  its  topo- 
graphical position  and  its  general 
appearance. 

2.  The  same  name  is  applied 
to  Boston,  Massachusetts,  a  city  re- 
markable for  the  high  intellectual 
character  of  its  citizens,  and  for  its 
many  excellent  literary,  scientitic, 
and  educational  in.-titutions  and  pub- 
lications. 

Modern  Babylon.  A  name  often 
given  to  the  city  of  London,  the  larg- 
est city  of  modern,  as  Babylon  was 
of  ancient,  times. 

lie  [William  Saurin]  was  well  aware  that 
he  should  disappear  in  tlie  Modern  Jlatii/lon, 
and  .  .  .  preferred  to  the  lackeying  of  the 
English  anstf)cracy  the  enjoyment  of  such 
provincial  influence  as  may  still  be  obtained 
in  Ireland.  Sheil. 

Modern  Mes'sa-li'na.  An  appella- 
tion conferred  upon  Catharine  II.  of 
Russia  (1729-1 790),  who  had  great 
administrative  talent,  but  whose 
character,  like  that  of  her  ancient 
namesake,  Valeria  ^Nlessalina,  Avas  in- 
famous on  accomit  of  her  licentious- 
ness. 

Modern  Rabelais  (rab'la').  A  title 
given,  on  account  of  his  learning,  wit, 
eloquence,  eccentricitv,  and  humor, 
to  William  Maginn  (1794-1842),  the 
most  remarkable  magazine  writer  of 
his  time. 

Mo'do.  A  fiend  referred  to  by  Shake- 
speare, in  "  Ecar, "'  as  j)residing  over 
murders.     See  Elidbertigibbet,  1. 

Mod'red,  Sir.  A  knight  of  the  Pound 
Talde,  the  rebellious  nephew  of  King 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   Explanation!, 


MCE 


247 


MON 


Arthur,  whose  wife  lie  seduced.  He 
was  slaiu  in  the  battle  of  Caiulan,  in 
Cornwall.  [Written  also  INledrod 
and  M  o  r  d  r  e  d.] 

Mce'rse  (9).  [Gr.  Molpai.]  [Myth.) 
The  Greek  name  of  the  Parcce,  or 
Fates.     See  Pakc.e. 

Mo-ha'di,  Imaura.  A  mysterious 
individual,  of  whom  the  Orientals 
believe  that  he  is  not  dead,  but  is 
destined  to  return  and  combat  Anti- 
christ before  the  consummation  of  all 
thinj^s  takes  place. 

"I  am,"  replied  the  dwaif,  with  much  as- 
Bunied  j,^ravity  and  di^nitv,  "  the  twelfth 
Iiii:ium,—  I  aiu  Mahonimed  'ilohadi,  thcfiuidc 
and  tlu^  conduetor  of  the  faithful.  An  luin- 
drcd  liorses  stand  ready  saddled  for  nio  and 
my  train  at  the  Holy  City,  and  as  jnanv  at  the 
City  of  Refuge."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Mo'hawks,  or  Mo'hocks.  See 
TiTVi;i<:  Tlts. 

Mol-niu'ti-us,  Dun-wal'lo  (mol- 
mu'shl-us).  A  legendary  or  mythical 
king  of  Britain ;  said  to  have  estab- 
lished the  Molmutine  laws,  by  which 
the  privilege  of  .sanctuary  was  be- 
stowed upon  temples,  cities,  and  the 
roads  leading  to  them,  and  a  like  pro- 
tection given  even  to  plows. 

3[olinathis  made  our  laws; 
Who  was  the  first  of  Britain  which  did  put 
His  hi-ows  within  a  golden  crown,  and  called 
Himself  a  king.  Shak. 

Mo'loch.  [Heb.  mnlech,  ^ing-] 
{Mi/th.)  The  name  of  the  chief  god 
of  the  Phoenicians,  frequently  men- 
tioned in  Scripture  as  the  god  of 
the  Ammonites.  Human  sacrilices, 
particularly  of  children,  were  offered 
at  his  shrine.  Two  lires  were  kin- 
dled before  the  image  of  the  god, 
and  through  these  the  miserable  vic- 
tims were  compelled  to  pass,  while 
the  priests,  to  drown  their  cries,  made 
a  deafening  noise  upon  instruments 
of  various  kinds.  It  was  chietly  in 
the  valley  of  Tophet,  —  that  is,  the 
valley  of  "  the  sound  of  drums  and 
cymbals,"  —  to  the  east  of  Jerusalem, 
tiiat  this  brutal  idolatry  was  perpe- 
trated. Solomon  built  a  temple  to 
^Moloch  upon  the  Mount  of  (3lives, 
and  Manasseh  long  after  imitated  his 
impiety  by  making  his  son  pass 
through  the  lire  kindled  in  honor  of 
tiiis  deitv.      In  the  fantastic  demon- 


ological  system  of  Wierus,  Moloch  is 
called  prince  of  the  realm  of  tears. 
Milton  has  described  his  character  ia 
the  following  lines:  — 

First  J/oloc/i,  horrid    king,  besmeared  with 

hlo,)d 
Of  human  sacrifice  and  parents'  tears: 
Though,  f>n-  the  noise  of  drums  and  timbrels 

loud, 
Their  children's  cries  unheard,  that  paBB«d 

through  fire 
To  his  grim  idol.     Him  the  Ammonite 
\Torshiped  in  Rabba  and  her  watery  plain, 
In  Argob  and  in  Basan,  to  the  stream 
Of  utmost  Arnon.     Nor  content  with  such 
Audacious  neighborhood,  tlic  wisest  heart 
Of  Solomon  ho  led,  by  fraud,  to  build 
His  temple  right  against  the  temple  of  God, 
On  tluit  opprobrious  hill;  and  made  his  grove, 
The    pleasant   valley    of   Hinnom,    Tophet 

thence 
And  black  Gehenna  called,  the  type  of  Hell. 
I'ar.  Lost,  Bk.  I. 

The  name  has  passed  into  common 
use  as  a  designation  of  any  dread  and 
irresistible  influence  at  whose  shrine 
every  thing  must  be  otfered  up,  even 
as  the  deluded  father  of  old  saci'iliced 
his  child  to  the  terrible  idol. 

Mom'mur.  The  name  of  an  imagi- 
nar}'  city,  where  Oberon,  king  of  the 
fairies,  was  once  supposed  to  hold  his 
court. 

Mo'mus.  [Gr.  M<omo?.]  ( Or.  (f  Rom.. 
Myth.)  The  god  of  raillery  and  ridi- 
cule, said  to  be  a  son  of  Nox,  or  night. 

Monarque,  Le  Grand.     See  Gkaxd 

MONAUQUE,  Le. 
M6-nim'i-a.     The  heroine  of  Otway's 
tragedy  of  "  The  Orphan." 

Dread  o'er  the  scene  the  ghost  of  Hamlet  stalks; 
Othello  rages;  \mor  Mnni mid  mourns. 
And  Belvidera  pours  her  soul  iu  love. 

Tliomsoii. 

Mon'I-plies,  Richard.  A  servant  of 
Nigel  Olifaunt  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's 
novel,  "The  Fortunes  of  Nigel;  "  an 
honest,  self-willed,  conceited,  pedan- 
tic Scotchman. 

Morik'barns.  See  Oldbuck,  Jona- 
than. 

Monk  Lewis.  INIatthew  Gregory 
Lewis  (1773-1818)  ;  — so  called  from 
being  the  author  of  a  celebrated  novel 
entitled  "  The  Monk." 

Monk  of  "Westminster.  A  designa- 
tion sometimes  given  to  Richard  of 
Cirencester,  or  Kicardus  Corinensis, 
an  eminent  monkish  historian  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  of  ttie  Benedictine 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  rp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MON 


248 


MOR 


monastery  of  St.  Peter,  at  "NVestmin-  ' 

ster.  i 

Monster,    The.     A    ii;uiie   poijiilarly 
givi'ii  to  llfinvifk  Willjaius,  a  wretch  [ 
wlio  pniwk-il  iiijj;litly  through  London,  ' 
secretly  armed  with  a  sliarp,  double- 
edged  kuile,  witli  which  he  shocking-  i 
\y  woinided  numbers  ot'  women  wliose  | 
respectable  appearance  attracted  his  J 
attention.     He    was   tried    and    con- 
victed on  a  variety  of  these  charges, 
July  8,  17!»0. 
Monster,    The    Green-eyed.     See 

Cil;KKN-KVi:i)  MoNSTEIt. 

Mon'ta-ffue.  The  head  of  a  noble 
house  in  Verona,  at  deadly  enmity 
with  the  house  of  Capulet,  in  Shake- 
speare's tragedy  of  ''  Romeo  and 
Juliet."     See  Cafulet,  Lady. 

Montesinos  (mon-tS-se'nos).  [Sp., 
from  vwnteslno,  bred  or  found  in 
a  forest  or  mountain,  from  monte, 
mountain,  forest.]  A  legendary  hero 
whose  history  and  adventures  are 
described  in  the  ballads  and  romances 
of  chivalry.  Having  received  some 
cause  of  offense  at  the  French  court, 
he  is  said  to  have  retired  into  Spain, 
Avhere,  from  his  fondness  for  wild  and 
mountainous  scenery,  he  acquired  the 
name  by  which  he  became  so  cele- 
brated, and  which  has  been  given  to 
a  cavern  in  the  heart  of  La  ^L'incha, 
supposed  to  have  been  inhabited  by 
him.  This  cavern  has  been  immor- 
talized by  Cervantes  in  his  account  of 
the  visit  of  Don  Quixote  to  the  Cave 
of  Montesinos.  It  is  about  sixty  feet 
in  depth.  Entrance  is  much  more 
easily  effected  at  the  present  day  than 
in  Cervantes's  time,  and  it  is  fre- 
quently resorted  to  by  shepherds  as 
a  shelter  from  the  cold  and  from 
storms.    See  Dukandaktk. 

Monticello,  Sage  of.     See  Sage  of 

M()NTICKI>L(). 

Montsalvage.     See  St.  Graal. 

Monumental  City.  The  city  of 
Baltimore;  —  so  called  from  the 
monuments  which  it  contains. 

What,  under  tlie  circumstances:,  would  not 
have  been  the  fate  of  the  Monuinciital  City,  of 
Ilarrisbursr.  of  Philadelphia,  of  Washington, 
the  capital  of  the  I'nion,  each  and  every  one 
of  whicli  would  have  lain  at  the  mercy  of  the 
eneniv?  E.  Ererctt. 


Mop'sus.  [Gr.  Moi^os.]  A  shepherd 
in  \'irgirs  hith  Ecl-jgue,  who,  with 
Menalcas,  celebrates  in  ama;ba'an 
verse  the  funeral  eulogium  of  Daph- 
nis. 

Mor'dred.  A  knight  of  the  Round 
Table,  distinguished  for  his  treacliery. 
See  MoDKED. 

Moreno,  Don  Antonio  (ddn  an- 
to'ne-o  mo-rfi^no).  The  name  of  a 
gentleman  of  Barcelona,  who  tigures 
in  Cervantes's  "  Don  (Quixote.''  He 
entertains  the  Don  with  mock-heroic 
hospitality. 

More  of  More-Hall.  See  Dragon 
OF  Want  LEV. 

Mor'ga-donr,  Sir.  A  knight  of  the 
Round  Table,  celebrated  in  the  old 
romances  of  chivalry. 

Morgaine  la  F6e  i^mof'gSn'la  fa).  A 
fairy,  sister  of  King  Arthur.  She 
revealed  to  him  the  intrigues  of 
Lancelot  and  Geneura.  [Written  also 
Morgan  a.]     See  Fata  Mui'.gaxa. 

You  have  had,  I  imagine,  a  happy  journey 
through  Fairy-land,  — all  full  of  heroic  ad- 
venture, andhigh  hope,  and  wild  minstrel- 
like  delusion,  like  the  gardens  of  Moranine  la 
Fee.  Sir  11.  Scott. 

Mor'gSn.  A  feigned  name  adopted 
by  Belarius,  a  banished  lord,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Cymbeline." 

Morgante  (mof-gan'ta).  The  hero 
of  Pulei's  romantic  poem  entitled 
''  ^Morgante  Maggiore."  He  is  a 
ferocious  pagan  giant,  whom  Orlando 
attacks,  conquers,  and  converts  to 
Christianity.  He  becomes  the  fast 
friend  of  Orlando,  and  acquires  great 
rencnvn  for  his  gentlenes?,  generosity, 
kindness  of  heart,  and  chivalrous  de- 
fense of  ladies  in  distress.  He  dies 
of  the  bite  of  a  crab,  as  if  to  show  on 
what  trivial  chances  depends  the  life 
of  the  strongest.     See  Orlando. 

As  for  the  giant  Mnrrfnnte,  he  always  spoke 
very  civil  thini.''s  of  him;  for,  though  he  was 
one"  of  that  monstrous  l)rood  who  ever  were 
intolerably  proud  and  brutish,  he  still  be- 
haved liimself  like  a  civil  and  well-bred  per- 
son. Cerrantes,  Tran.<. 

Mor'gi-a'na.  A  female  slave  of  Ali 
Baba  in  the  story  of  the  "  Forty 
Thieves"  in  the  "Arabian  Nights* 
Entertainments." 

IIo  went  to  work  in  this  preparatory  lesson, 
looking  into  all  the 


not  unlike  Morgianu, 


V^-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


MOR 


249 


MOR 


Teasels  ranged  before  him,  one  after  another, 

to  see  what  they  cuntaineil.  JJicLviis. 

Hor'glSy.  [Celt,  inor,  viawr^  lar^e, 
great,  and  y^'dj\  a  cruokcd  sword. 
CUiyitiort^  ur  yUiijiiiurt,  i.s  aa  inver- 
sion of  the  word. J  The  sword  of  .Sir 
Eevis  of  Southampton  ;  so  lanious 
that  it  became  a  general  name  for  a 
sword. 

Morgue  the  Fay.  See  Mokgai>;e 
LA  Fek  and  Fata  Mokgaisa. 

Mor'hault,  Sir.  A  knight  who  makes 
a  great  ligure  in  some  of  the  ro- 
mances of  chivalry,  particularly  in 
that  of  "  Meliadus."  [Written  also 
Mora  u  n  t,  M  a  r  h  o  u  s,  M  o  r  h  a  u  s, 
Morholf,  Morhoult.] 

Ilor'ley,  Mrs.  An  assumed  name 
under  which  Queen  Anne  corre- 
sponded with  the  Duchess  of  Marl- 
borough.    See  Fkeeman,  Mi:s. 

Mor'mSn.  The  last  of  a  pretended 
line  of  Hebrew  prophets,  descril)ed  as 
existing  among  a  race  of  Israelities, 
principalh'  tlie  descendants  of  .losoph, 
son  of  the  patriarch  .Jacob,  who  are  fa- 
bled to  have  emigrated  from  Jerusa- 
lem to  America  about  six  hundred 
years  before  Christ.  This  imaginary 
prophet  is  said  to  have  written  the 
book  called  "•  The  Book  of  Mormon," 
which  contains  doctrines  upon  which 
the  ''Mormons,"  or  "Latter-day 
Saints,"  found  their  faith;  but  the 
real  author  was  one  Solomon  Spal- 
ding (1761-1810),  an  inveterate  scrib- 
bler, who  had  in  earlv  life  been  a 
clergyman.  The  work  fell  into  the 
hands  of  Joseph  Smith  (1805-1844), 
who  claimed  it  as  a  direct  revehition 
to  himself  from  heaven,  and,  taking 
it  as  his  text  and  authority,  began 
to  preach  the  new  gospel  of  "  Mor- 
monism." 

Morning  Star  of  the  Reformation. 

A  title  (jften  bestowed  upon  John 
Wycliffe  (d.  1384),  the  tirst  of  the 
reformers. 

&S"  ''  When  the  lamentable  ignorance 
and  darkness  of  God's  truth  had  over- 
shadowed the  whole  earth,  this  m;m, 
Wycliffe.  stepped  forth  like  a  valiant 
champion,  unto  whom  it  may  ju.«tly  be 
applied  that  is  spoken  in  the  book  called 
Ecclesiristicus  (chap.  i.  ver.  6).  of  one  Si- 
mon, the  son  of  Onias. '  Even  as  the  morn- 


ing star  being  in  the  middost  of  a  rlond, 
and  as  the  moon  being  full  in  her  course, 
and  as  the  bright  btNuns  of  tlie  sun.'  so 
doth  he  sliine  and  glister  in  tiie  temple 
and  church  of  Uod."  J.  Foxe. 

Wycliffe  will  ever  be  renicmberecl  ns  a  trood 
and  gieiit  iiKui,  an  advijeate  of  eeelosiastieal 
iiulependence,  an  iiiifailiii;;  foe  to  iiojjish 
tyranny,  a  translator  of  Seriiiture  into  our 
mother  ttjngue,  and  an  indiistrions  instnietor 
of  tiie  people  in  their  own  nide  hot  ripening 
dialect.  May  he  not  be  justly  styled  the 
*'JIorning  Star  of  the  Jiejoriiiation  f  "     Eadie. 

Mor'pheus  (28).  [Or.  Mop(/)ei  ?.]  [Gr. 
()'•  Rinn..  Mijtli.)  The  god  of  dreams, 
a  son  of  Somnus,  or  sleep. 

Mor'rice,  Gil.  The  hero  of  a  cele- 
brated Scottish  baUad;  represented 
as  the  fon  of  an  earl,  wliose  luime  is 
not  mentioned,  and  the  Avife  of  Lord 
Barnard,  a  ''  baiild  baron."  On  Oil 
Morrice's  sending  a  message  to  his 
mother  requesting  her  to  come  to 
him,  and  accompanying  the  message 
with  a  gay  mantle  of  her  own  Avork- 
manship,  by  way  of  token.  Lord  Bar- 
nard, who  had  never  seen  him,  sup- 
posed him  to  be  a  paramour  of  the 
baroness.  He  went  out,  therefore,  in 
a  great  rage,  to  seek  revenge,  aiid 
finding  Oil  Jlorrice  in  the  greenwood, 
slew  iiim  Avith  his  broadsword,  stuck 
the  bloody  head  upon  a  spear,  and 
gave  it  to  the  meanest  of  his  at- 
tendants to  carry.  On  returning  to 
the  castle,  where  the  lady  Avas  Avatch- 
ing  his  coming  ''Avi'  meikle  dide  and' 
doune,"  he  upbraided  her  with  her 
adulterous  love. 

"  But  when  she  looked  on  Gil  Morrice'  head, 
She  never  spake  words  but  three: 
*  I  never  bare  no  child  but  ane, 
And  ye  've  slain  him  eruellie.'" 

4tg=  This  pathetic  tale  suggested  the 
plot  of  Home's  tragedy  of  "  Douglas.*' 
The  word  •■  Gil  '"  is  the  same  as  •'  Childe  " 
(pronounced  child),  a  title  formerly  pre- 
fixed to  the  surnames  of  the  oldest  sons 
of  noble  families,  while  they  had  not  as 
yet  succeeded  to  the  titles  of  their  ances- 
tors, or  gained  ncAV  ones  by  their  own 
prowess. 

Morris,  Peter.     The    pseudonymous 

author  of  a  Avork  entitled  "  Peter's 
Letters  to  his  Kinsfolk,"  published 
in  1819,  and  Avritten  by  John  Oibson 
Lockhart.  It  giA-es  graphic  sketches 
of  Scottish  men  and  manners  at  that 
time. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv  xxxii. 


MOR 


250 


MOT 


llors.  [Lat.]  {Gr.  i^-  Rom.  Mijlh.)  A 
deitied  personification  of  death,  rep- 
resL'iited  as  tlie  daughter  of  l^ohus 
and  Xox. 

Mortality,    Old.       See    Old    Mok- 

TALITY. 

Morton.  A  retainer  of  the  Earl  of 
Xorthiunberland,  in  the  Second  Part 
of  Shakespeare's'"  King  Henry  IV'." 

Mo'rus  Mul'ti-cau'lis  Mania.  A 
wild,  reckless  spirit  of  speculation 
which  seized  upon  people,  even  those 
of  intelligence,  in  tlie  United  States, 
about  the  year  18-35.  and  which  le(l 
them  to  purchase  and  cultivate  mul- 
berry-trees at  fabulous  prices,  with 
the  view  of  rearing  the  silkworm.  It 
soon  died  out,  however,  but  not  with- 
out great  losses  having  been  sustained 
by  the  deluded. 

Mor'ven.  A  kingdom  spoken  of  in 
the  poems  of  Ossian,  of  which  Fingal 
was  the  rider,  supposed  to  represent 
Argyleshire  and  the  adjoining  parts 
of  the  West  Highlands,  but  of  whose 
existence  there  is  absolutely  no  evi- 
dence. 

Moses.    See  Primrose,  Moses. 

Most  Catholic  Majesty.  See  Cath- 
olic Majesty. 

Most  ChLristian  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doc- 
iiir  CJiristidiussiinus.]  1.  An  appella- 
tion bestowed  on  Jean  Charlier  de  Ger- 
>t)n  (1363-1429),  one  of  the  most  em- 
inent and  learned  divines  of  his  age. 
2.  The  same  title  was  given  to 
Nicolas  de  Cusa,  Cuss,  or  Cusel  ( 1401- 
1464),  a  celebrated  German  philoso- 
pher and  cardinal. 

Most  Christian  King,  or  Majesty. 
[Lat.  Cliri  tiinlsshnus  RexJ]  A  name 
given  by  Pope  Stephen  III.,  in  755, 
to  Pepin  the  Short  of  France,  and  bv 
the  council  of  Savonnieres,  in  859, 
to  Charles  the  Bald;  i)ut  it  did  not 
become  the  peculiar  a])pellation  of 
the  sovereigns  of  that  country  nntil 
1469,  when  Pope  Paul  II.  conferred 
it  upon  Louis  XL  It  has  been  justly 
said  that  never  was  the  name  of 
Christian  less  deserved.  His  tyranny 
and  oppressions  obliged  his  subjects 
to  enter  into  a  league  against  him; 
and  four  thousand  persons  were  ex- 


ecuted  publicly  or  privately  in  hi» 
niercile.«;s  reig)i. 

Most  Faithful  Majesty.  A  title 
given,  in  1748,  by  Pope  Benedict 
XIV.,  to  John  \'.,  king  of  Portugal. 

Most  Learned  of  the  Romans. 
[Lat.  hi'uditissiiiiHS  Jio/H'inoium.]  A 
title  bestowed  upon  Marcus  Terentius 
Varro  (u.  c.  116-27),  on  account  of 
his  vast  and  varied  erudition  in 
almost  every  department  of  litera- 
ture. He  was  .so  called  by  Quintil- 
ian,  by  Cicero,  and  by  St.  Augustine. 
According  to  his  own  statement,  he 
wrote  four  hundred  and  ninety  books. 

Most  Methodical  Doctor.  [Lat. 
Jjoctor  Orfliuatissiiiius.]  An  honorary 
title  given  to  John  Bassol  (d.  1347), 
a  distinguished  Scotch  philoso])her, 
and  a  disciple  of  Duns  Scotus,  on 
account  of  the  clear  and  accurate 
manner  in  which  he  lectured  and 
composed.  His  master  greatly  ad- 
mired him,  and  used  to  say,  "  If  only 
Bassol  be  i)resent,  I  have  a  sulHcient 
auditory." 

Most  Resolute  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Rt.^oliitis.^iinus.]  A  name  given  to 
Durand  de  St.  Pourcain  (d.  1332).  a 
member  of  the  order  of  Dominicans, 
and  a  scholastic  philosopher  distin- 
guished as  an  opponent  of  the  realism 
of  Scotus  and  his  followers.  His  style 
is  said  to  have  been  characterized  by 
a  singular  energy,  and  freedom  from 
all  periphrasis  and  ambiguity. 

Moth.  1.  A  page  to  Don  Adriano  de 
Armado,  in  Sliakespeare's  "  Love's 
Labor  's  l>ost." 

>Btg=-  "  To  the  stiff,  weak,  melannholy 
Aruiado  is  opposed  the  little  Moth.  who. 
light  .'Ls  his  name,  is  all  jest  and  playful- 
ness, versatility  and  cunninsr." 

Gf  TV  ill  j/5,  TVatis . 

2.  A  fairy,  in  Shakespeare's  *'  Mid- 
summer-Xight's  Dream." 
Mother  Ann.  A  title  conferred  upon 
Ann  Lee  (1735-1784),  the  "spiritual 
mother  "  and  leader  of  the  society  of 
Shakers,  and  the  name  by  which  she 
is  familiarly  known  among  the  mem- 
bers of  that  sect.  She  is  regarded  as 
a  second  manifestation  of  the  Christ 
under  a  female  form,  Jesus  being  the 
male  manifestation. 


O^  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


MOT 


251 


MOT 


Mother  Bunch.  1.  A  celebrated  ale- 
wit'e,  apparently  of  the  latter  part  of 
the  sixteenth  eentury,  inentioned  l)y 
Dekker  in  his  "  Satironiastix,"  l(i()2; 
and  in  1()()4  was  published  "  I'asqiiil's 
Jests,  mixed  with  Mother  Bunch's 
Merriments." 
Wit  that  shall  make  thy  name  to  last, 

When  Turleton's  jests  are  rotten, 
And  George  a-Green  and  Mother  Bunch 
Shall  all  be  quite  forgotten. 

Wit  and  Drollery,  1C82. 

2.  The  subject  of  a  book,  formcr- 
/v  very  popular,  entitknl  "  Mother 
Bunch's  Closet  newly  broke  open, 
containing  Kare  Secrets  of  Art  and 
Nature,  tried  and  experimented  by 
Learned  Philosophers,  and  recom- 
mended to  all  Ingenious  Young  Men 
and  3Iaids,  teaching  them,  in  a  Nat- 
ural ^^  ay,  how  to  get  (Jood  Wives 
and  Husbands.  By  a  I  ,o ver  of  INIirth 
and  Hater  of  Treason.  In  Two  Parts, 
London,  12^,  17(30."  The  following 
extract  from  the  Avork  may  serve  as 
a  specimen  of  its  contents. 

fj-S""- A   Wuu  to  tell  iclio  viuM  be  your 
Hiisbrvid.  —  Take  a  St.  Thomas's  oniou, 
pare  it,  and  lay  it  on  a  clean  handker- 
chief under  your  piiiow  ;  put  on  a  clean 
smock;  and.  as  you  lie  down,  lay  your 
arms  abroad,  and  say  these  words :  — 
'  Good  St.  Thomas,  do  me  right, 
And  bring  my  love  to  me  this  night, 
Tliat  I  may  view  him  in  the  face, 
And  in  my  arms  may  l.im  embrace.' 

Then,  lying  on  thy  back  with  thy  arms 
abi-oad,  go  to  sleep  as  soon  as  you  can, 
and  in  your  first  sleep  you  shall  dream 
of  him  who  is  to  be  your  husband,  and 
be  will  come  and  offer  to  kiss  you  ;  do  not 
hinder  him,  but  catch  him  in  thv  arms, 
and  strive  to  hold  him,  for  that  is  he. 
This  I  have  tried,  and  it  was  proved 
true." 

^£g=»  "  Now  that  we  have  fairly  entered 
vnto  the  matrimonial  chapter,  we  must 
needs  speak  of  Mother  Bunch  ;  not  the 
Mother  Bunch  whose  fairv  tales  are  re- 
peated to  the  Httle  ones,  but  she  whose 
'cabinet.'  when  broken  open,  reveals  so 
many  powerful  love-spells.  It  is  Mother 
Bunch  who  fetiches  the  blooming  damsel 
to  recall  the  fickle  lover,  or  to  fix  the 
vrandering  gaze  of  the  cautious  swain, 
attracted  by  her  charms,  yet  scorning  the 
fetters  of  the  pirson.  and  dreading  the 
sfill  more  fearful  vision  of  the  church- 
warden, the  constable,  the  justice,  the 
warrant,  and  the  jail."  Q'l.  Rev. 

My  thoughts  naturally  turned  to  Master  B. 
My  bpeculations  about  him  were  uneasy  and 


manifold,  —  whether  his  Christian  name  was 
Benjamin,  Bi.ssextile  (from  his  having  been 
born  in  leap-year),  Bartholomew,  or  Bill; 
.  .  .  whether  he  could  ixissilily  have  been 
kith  and  kin  to  an  ilhi>t?ioiis  liidy  who  bri^ht- 
eiu'd  my  own  eliildliootl,  ;iud  liad  come  ot  the 
blood  of  the  brilliant  Mother  Hunch.     Dickens. 

Mother  Ca'rey  (!) ).  A  name  which  oc- 
curs in  the  expression  '•  Mother  Ca- 
rey's chickens,"  which  is  applied  by 
sailors  to  \he  Procclldiin  j>tliif/i,c((,  ot 
stormy  petrel,  a  small  oceanic  bird 
vulgarly  supposed  to  be  .seen  only  be- 
fore a  storm,  of  which  it  is  regarded  as 
the  harbinger.  According  to  Yarrell, 
the  distinguished  ornithologist, ''  The 
name  of  'Mother  Carey's  chickens' 
is  said  to  have  been  originally  be- 
stowed upon  the  stormy  petrel  by 
(Japtain  Carteret's  sailors,  probably 
from  some  celebrated  ideal  hag  of 
that  name."  Others  regard  the  words 
as  a  characteristic  English  corrup- 
tion of  "  Main-  cava''''  (that  is,  dear 
Mother),  an  aflTectionate  appellation 
said  to  be  given  by  Italian  sailors 
to  the  Virgin  Mary  —  the  special  pa- 
troness of  mariners  —  for  her  kind- 
ness in  sending  these  messengers  to 
forewarn  them  of  impending  tem- 
pests; but  this  explanation  is  rather 
ingenious  than  probable.  When  it 
is  snowing,  Mother  Carey  is  said  by 
the  sailors  to  be  plucking  her  goose ; 
and  this  has  been  supposed  to  be  the 
comical  and  satirical  form  assunud 
by  a  m3'th  of  the  old  German  my- 
thology, that  described  the  snow  as 
the  feathers  falling  from  the  bed  of 
the  goddess  Holda,  when  she  shook 
it  in  making  it. 

Among  the  unsolvable  riddles  which  nature 
propounds  to  mankind,  we  may  reckon  the 
question,  Who  is  Mother  Carey,  and  where 
does  she  rear  her  chickens?  H.  Bricltje. 

Mother  Company.  See  Company, 
John. 

Mother  Doug'iass.  A  famous  pro- 
curess of  the  last  century.  Foote 
represents  her  in  "  The  Minor,"  in 
the  character  of  Mrs.  Cole.  She  re- 
sided "  at  the  north-east  corner  of 
Covent  Garden,"  where  she  died  June 
10,  1761.  Her  house  Avas  superbly 
furnished,  and  decorated  Avith  ex- 
pensive pictures  by  old  ma.sters. 

I  question  whether  the  celebrated  Mother 
Donglasn  herself  could  have  made  such  a 
figure  in  an  extemporaneous  altercation. 

Smollett, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxil 


MOT 


252 


MOU 


Mother  Goose.  1.  The  feigned  nar- 
rator of  a  celebrated  volume  of  fairy 
tales  ('*  Contes  de  ma  ^Mere  r()ye  "), 
written  by  Charles  I'errault,  and  first 
published,  under  the  name  of  his 
infant  sou,  I'errault  d"Armaneourt, 
in  1697.  Of  the  ten  stories  in  this 
work,  seven  are  to  be  found  in  the 
"  Pentamerone." 

2.  The  tictitious  writer  or  compiler 
of  the  collection  of  ancient  nursery 
rhymes  known  as  "  jNIother  Goose's 
Melodies." 

#^  This  *'  Mother  Goose  "  is  not  an 
imaginary  personaj^e,  as  is  commonly 
supposed.  She  belonged  to  a  wealthy 
family  in  Boston,  Massachusetts,  where 
she  was  born,  and  resided  for  many  years. 
Iler  eldest  daughter,  Elizabeth  Goose,  was 
married,  by  the  celebrated  Cotton  IMatlier, 
on  the  8th  of  .June,  1715.  to  an  enterpris- 
ing and  industrious  printer  by  the  name 
of  Thomas  Fleet,  and,  in  due  time,  gave 
birth  to  a  son.  Mother  Goose,  like  all 
pood  grandmothers,  was  in  ecstasies  at 
tlie  event ;  her  joy  was  unbounded  ;  she 
spent  her  whole  time  in  the  nursery,  and 
in  wandering  about  the  house,  pouring 
forth,  in  not  the  most  melodious  strains, 
the  songs  and  ditties  which  she  had 
learned  in  her  younger  days,  greatly  to 
the  annoyance  of  the  whole  neighbor- 
hood, —  to  Fleet  in  particular,  who  was 
a  man  fond  of  quiet.  It  was  in  vain  he 
exhausted  his  shafts  of  wit  and  ridicule, 
and  every  expedient  he  could  devise.  It 
was  of  no  use  ;  the  old  lady  was  not  thus 
to  be  put  down  ;  so,  like  others  similarly 
situated,  he  was  obliged  to  submit.  His 
shrewdness,  however,  did  not  forsake 
him  :  he  conceived  the  idea  of  collecting 
the  songs  and  ditties  as  they  came  from 
his  good  mother-in-law,  and  such  as  he 
could  gather  from  other  sources,  and 
publishing  them  for  the  benefit  of  the 
world —  not  forgetting  himself.  This  he 
did.  and  soon  brought  out  a  book,  the 
earliest  known  edition  of  which  bears  the 
following  title  :  '•  Songs  for  the  Nursery  ; 
or.  Mother  Goose's  Melodies  for  Children. 
Printed  by  T.  Fleet,  at  his  Printing-house, 
Pudding  Lane  [now  Devonshire  Street], 
1719.  Price,  two  coppers."  The  adop- 
tion of  this  title  was  in  derision  of  his 
mother-in-law,  and  was  perfectly  charac- 
teristic of  the  man,  as  he  was  never  known 
to  spare  liis  nearest  friends  in  his  raillery, 
or  when  he  could  excite  laughter  at  their 
expense. 

Mother  Hubbard.  The  subject  of 
an  old  and  well-known  nursery 
rhyme. 


Mother  Hubberd.  The  feigned  nar- 
rator of  Spenser's  poem  entitled 
"Mother  Hubberd's  Tale,"  which  is 
a  satire  upon  the  common  modes 
of  rising  in  Church  and  State,  and 
which  ])urports  to  be  one  of  several 
tales  told  to  the  author  by  his  friends, 
to  beguile  a  season  of  sickness. 

Mother  Nicneven.     See  Nicneven. 

Mother  of  Cities.  [Arab.  Amu  al 
BdliuL]  A  title  given  by  Orientals, 
on  account  of  its  antiquity,  to  Balkh, 
the  capital  city  of  the  province  of  the 
same  name  (the  ancient  kingdom  of 
liactria),  which  is  subordinate  to  the 
khanate  of  Bokhara. 

Mother  of  Presidents.  A  name  fre- 
quently given,  in  the  United  States, 
to  the  State  of  Virginia,  which  ha.? 
furnished  six  presidents  to  the  Union. 

Mother  of  States.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  Virginia,  the  first  settled 
of  the  thirteen  States  which  united 
in  the  declaration  of  independence. 
From  the  large  amount  of  ten-itory 
originally  included  under  this  name 
have  been  formed  the  States  of  Ken- 
tucky, Ohio,  Indiana,  Illinois,  and 
West  Virginia. 

Mother  of  the  Camps.  [Lat.  Mater 
C'fistronim.]  A  title  given  by  the 
Roman  legions  in  Gaul  to  Victoria, 
or  Victorina,  after  the  death  of  her 
son  Victorinus  (a.  d.  268),  one  of 
the  Thirty  Tyrants.  See  Thirty 
Tyrants. 

Mother  of  the  Gods.    See  Cybele. 

Mother  Ship  ton.  The  subject  of  a 
popular  tale  of  ancient,  but  uncertain 
date,  and  of  unknown  authorship, 
entitled  "  The  Strange  and  "Wonder- 
ful History  and  Prophecies  of  Mother 
Shipton,  plainly  setting  forth  her 
birth,  life,  death,  and  burial." 

Mouldy.  A  recruit,  in  the  Second 
Part  of  Shakespeare's  "  King  Henrv 
IV." 

Mound  City.  A  name  popularly  given 
to  St.  Louis,  [Missouri,  on  account  of 
the  numerous  artificial  mounds  in  the 
neighborhood  of  the  site  on  which  the 
city  is  built. 

Mountain,  The.  [Fr.  Ln  }fo'iitn(ine.'\ 
A  name  given  to  the   Jacobins,  or 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Prouunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanatioiu 


MOU 


253 


MUM 


extreme  democratic  politicians,  in  the 
National  Couveiitiou  ot"  France,  from 
their  occupying  tlie  highest  benches. 
Of  this  iorniidal)le  party,  Coilot 
d'Herbois,  Danton,  Marat,  Robes- 
pierre, and  St.  Just  were  the  princi- 
pal members.  Brissot  tir^t  used  the 
term  in  the  Constitutional  Assembly, 
in  contrasting  the  Jacobins  with  the 
Aristocrats.  The  expression  is  still 
in  use  on  the  continent  of  Europe, 
as  applied  to  the  extreme  radicals, 
or  "  the  left." 

Mount  Badon.    See  Badon,  Mount. 

Mount  Caf  (kaf).  { Mohamtnedcm 
Mijth.)  A  fabulous  mountain  en- 
circling the  earth,  —  supposed  to  be 
a  circular  plain  or  tiat  disc,  —  as  a 
ring  encircles  the  finger.  It  is  the 
home  of  giants  and  fairies,  and  rests 
upon  the  sacred  stone  Sakhrat.  See 
Sakiikat.  [Written  also  Mount 
Kaf.] 

Mount  Meru.     See  Meru. 

Muc'kle-back'it,  Saun'ders  (muk'- 
1-).  An  old  lishermau  in  Sir  "Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  "  The  Antiquary." 

Muc'kle-wrath,  Ha-bak'kuk  (muk'- 
1-rawth).  A  I'anatic  preacher  in 
Scott's  "  Old  Mortality." 

Muggins.  See  Huggins  and  Mug- 
c;iNS. 

Mul'cl-ber.  [Lat.]  {Rom.  Myth.)  A 
surname  of  Vulcan.  For  taking  the 
part  of  Juno  against  Jupiter,  in  a 
quarrel  between  the  tAvo  deities,  the 
latter  seized  him  by  the  leg  and 
hurled  him  down  I'rom  Olympus.  He 
Av^as  a  Avhole  day  in  falling;  but,  in 
the  evening,  he  came  down  in  the  isl- 
and of  Lemnos,  Avhere  he  was  kindly 
received   and   taken    care   of.      See 

VUIXAN. 

Nor  was  his  name  unheard  or  nnadorcd 
In  ancient  Greece;  and  iu  Ausonian  land 
Men  called  him  ilulcihcr ;  and  how  he  fell 
From  lieaven  they  fabled,  thrown  by  angry 

Jove 
Sheer  o'er  the  crystal  battlements:  from  morn 
To  noon  he  fell/from  noon  to  dewy  eve, 
A  summer's  day;  and  with  tlie  setting;  sun 
Dropped  from  the  zenith  like  a  falling  star, 
On  Lemnos,  the  iEgean  isle.  Millnn. 

'Mul'la.  A  poetical  name  given  by 
Spenser  to  the  Awbeg,  ^ — a  tributary 
of  the  Blackwater,  —  in  Ireland,  near 
which  he  lived  for  many  years. 


A8  erst  the  bard  bj'  Mulla'f  silver  Btream, 

Oft  as  lie  told  ol'ueadlv  dolorous  pliglit, 
Sighed  u.s  hi;  tung,  and  did  in  teari  indite. 

Sli<:)istone. 

Muller,  Maud.  The  heroine  of  a 
ballad  by  Wliittier,  having  tliis  name 
for  its  title. 

Miil'lion,  Mor'de-cS,i  (muPyun).  One 
of  the  interlocutors  in  the  "  Noctes 
Ambrosiame  "  of  Wdson,  Lockhart, 
<S:c. ;  a  pin-ely  imaginary  character, 
designed  to  represent,  very  generally, 
the  population  of  Glasgow  and  its  vi- 
cinity. Wilson  also  used  the  name 
as  a  num  de  jjluiiit. 

Mum'bo  Jum'bo.  A  strange  bug- 
bear, common  to  all  the  Mandingo 
tOAvns,  and  resorted  to  by  the  negroes 
as  a  means  of  discipline. 

iKg=  "  On  the  7th  of  December,  1795, 
I  departed  from  Konjour,  and  sk'pt  at  a 
villa^^e  called  Malla(orMallaiug) ;  and,  on 
the  8th,  about  noon,  I  arrived  at  Kalor, 
a  considerable  town,  near  the  entrance 
into  which  I  observed,  hanging  upon  a 
tree,  a  sort  of  masquerade  habit,  made 
of  the  bark  of  trees,  which  I  was  told,  on 
inquir}-,  belonged  to  Munibo  .tumbo.  This 
is  a  strange  bugbear,  conmion  to  the  Man- 
dingo  towns,  and  much  employed  by  the 
pagan  lu^tives  in  keeping  their  women  in 
subjection ;  for,  as  the  Kaffirs  are  not 
restricted  in  the  number  of  their  wives, 
every  one  marries  as  many  as  he  can  con- 
veniently maintain  ;  and,  as  it  frequent- 
ly happens  that  the  ladies  do  not  agree 
among  themselves,  family  quarrels  some- 
times rise  to  such  a  height,  that  the  au- 
thority of  the  husband  can  no  longer  pre- 
serve peace  in  his  houseliold.  In  such 
cases,  the  interposition  of  Miimbo  Jumbo 
is  called  in,  and  is  always  decisive.  Tliis 
strange  minister  of  justice  (who  is  sup- 
posed to  be  either  t.ie  husband  liimself 
or  some  person  instructed  by  him),  dis- 
guised iu  the  dress  that  has  been  men- 
tioned, and  armed  with  the  rod  of  public 
authorit , ,  announces  his  coming  by  loud 
and  dismal  screams  in  the  woods  near  the 
town.  lie  begins  the  pantomime  at  the 
approach  of  night,  and  as  soon  as  it  is 
dark  he  enters  the  town.  The  ceremony 
conmienccs  with  songs  and  dances,  which 
continue  till  midnight,  about  which  time 
Mumbo  fixes  on  the  offender.  The  unfor- 
t'.inate  victim,  being  seized,  is  stripped, 
tied  to  a  post,  and  severely  scourged  with 
Mumbo's  rod,  amidst  the  shouts  and  de. 
rision  of  the  whole  assembly.  Daylight 
puts  an  end  to  the  unseemly  revel." 

Mnngo  Park. 

The  grand  question  and  hope,  however,  is, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


MUN 


254 


MYR 


Will  not  this  feast  of  the  Tuileries'  Mumbo 
Jumho  L)e  u  sign,  perlmps,  that  iJie  guillotine 
is  to  abate  .'  (JurlijUs. 

Mun-chau'sen  (-sn).  The  putative 
author  and  hero  ot  a  book  ot  travels 
tilled  with  the  most  marvelous  fic- 
tions, compiled  trom  various  sources, 
and  first  published  in  England,  in 
178.),  by  Rudolf  Erich  Gaspe,  an  ex- 
patriated (jerman.  I  he  wit  and  hu- 
mor of  the  work  gave  it  great  success. 
Several  other  editions  soon  appeared, 
and  translations  or  imiiations  were 
brought  out  in  (jerman  and  other 
foreign  languages,  i'lie  name  Alun- 
chau.-^eu  is  corrupted  irom  that  of 
Jerome  Charles  livderick  von  Munch- 
hausen  (1720-1797),  a  German  officer 
in  the  llussian  i^ervice,  who  accjuired 
a  remarkable  notoriety  by  relating 
the  most  ridiculously  false  and  exag- 
gerated tales  of  his  adventures.  He 
is  said  to  have  repeated  the  Fame 
stories  so  often,  without  the  slightest 
rariation  in  their  most  minute  points, 
that  he  came  at  length  really  to  be- 
lieve even  his  most  extravagant  fic- 
tions, and  was  highly  offended  if  any 
one  presumed  to  doubt  them.  Tet 
there  was  nothing  of  the  braggart 
about  him,  his  whole  demeanor  being 
that  of  a  quiet  and  modest  gentleman. 
He  must  not  be  confounded,  as  is 
sometimes  the  case,  with  Gerlach 
Adolphus,  Baron  von  Miinchhausen 
(1G88-1770),  one  of  the  founders  of 
the  University  of  Gottingen,  and  for 
many  years  a  privy  councilor  of  the 
Elector  of  Hanover,  George  II.  of 
England. 

jSlun-duii'gus.  A  nickname  —  sig- 
nifying tob'iccn  —  given  by  Sterne, 
in  his  "  Sentimental  Journey,"  to 
Doctor  Samuel  Sharp  (d.  1778),  an 
English  tourist  who  traveled  upon 
the  continent  at  the  same  time  as 
Sterne,  and  who  published  a  cold, 
didactic  account  of  what  he  had  seen, 
disdgured  by  coarse  libels  upon  the 
ladies  of  Italy.     See  Smelfuxgus. 

Munin  (moo'nin).  {Scnnd.  Myth.) 
One  of  Odin's  two  ravens.  See 
Odin. 

Muse  Limonadiere,  La  (la  miiz 
le'mo'na'de-er'.  34).  [Fr.,  cofi'ee- 
house  muse.]     A  sobriquet  given  to 


Charlotte  Bourette  (1714-1784,,  a 
>rencn  poete^■s  who  kept  a  cajt  wiucli 
was  frequented  by  all  the  wits  ol  her 
tinii'  in  Fari>. 

Muse  of  Greece.     See  Attic  Muse. 

Muses.  [Lat.  Musce,  Gr.  MoOaai.] 
{Ur.  ly  Rnni.  Mylh.)  Daughters  of 
Jupiter  and  Mnemosyne,  and  god- 
desses who  presided  over  the  ditier- 
ent  kinds  ot  poetry,  and  over  music, 
dancing,  and  the  other  liberal  arts. 
They  were  nine  in  number;  namely, 
Clio,  the  muse  of  history;  .Melpom- 
ene, of  tragedy;  Thalia,  of  comedy; 
Euterpe,  of  music;  1  er])sichore,  of 
dancing;  Calliojie,  of  epic  poetry; 
Erato,  of  lyric  and  amatory  poetry; 
Urania,  of  astronomy;  Polyhymnia, 
or  I'olymnia,  of  singing  and  rhetoric. 

Mu'gi-do'ra  (9).  A  beautiful  young 
woman  who  forms  the  subject  of  an 
episode  in  the  poem  on  "Summer" 
in  Thomson's  "  Seasons." 

i82"'  "  Musidora  was  one  of  the  fashion- 
able poetical  sobriquets  of  the  last  cen 
tury/'  Yonge. 

Muspel  (md()s'pel),  or  Muspelheim, 
(m()(js^pel-h!m).  (Sc.niul.  }fylh.)  A 
region  of  lire  and  heat,  lying  to  the 
south  of  Ginnunga-gap.  Iroin  it,  at 
Ragnarcik,  Surtur  will  collect  flames, 
and  set  lire  to  the  universe. 

Mutch.  One  of  Kobin  Hood's  band 
of  outlaws.  See  KoniN  Hood.  [Writ- 
ten also  Much,    Midge.] 

Mutual  Admiration  Society.  [Fr. 
Socicte  iC Afhnirat'utii  Miituel/e.]  A 
nickname  popularly  given  in  Paris 
to  the  Societe  d'Cibservation  ^Medi- 
cale.  It  is  used  in  English,  in  a 
more  general  way,  usually  with  refer- 
ence to  a  circle  or  set  of  persons  who 
are  lavish  of  compliments  on  each 
other. 

Wlin  can  tell  what  wc  owe  to  the  Mutual 
Admiration  Sorirtif  of  which  Sh.ikespearc, 
and  Ucn  Jonson.and  Bciununt  rnd  Fletcher 
were  members?  Or  to  th;it  t<f  wliich  Addison 
and  Steele  formed  the  center,  and  which  pave 
tta  the  "  Snr-ct  ;to'-?"  Or  to  th:it  where  John- 
son, and  Goldsmith,  :nid  P.ii'-ke,  and  Rey- 
nolds, and  Bcuuelerc,  and  Boswcll,  most  ad- 
mirinsr  anionic  all  admirers,  met  together? 
.  .  .  Wise  ones  are  prouder  of  the  title  M.  S. 
M.  A.  than  of  all  their  other  honors  nut  to- 
gether. JMmes. 

Myrrha    (mir'ra).      The    heroine   of 


0@"  For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronj'.nciation,"  with  the  accompanj'ing  Explanations, 


MYR 


255 


MYS 


Lord  Byron's  tragedy  of  "  Sardanap- 
alus." 

Myrtle,  Minnie.  A  pseudonym  of 
Mis.  Anna  C.  .lohnson,  an  American 
autliuiKss  of  the  present  day. 

Mystical  Babylon.  A  name  often 
opprobriously  f;iven  by  Protestants 
to  Home,  or  the  Roman  Catholic 
chm'ch,  with  reference  to  the  languane 
used  by  St.  John,  in  the  seventeenth 

Ynd  for  the  Remarks  and  Bules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


and  eighteenth  chapters  of  the  book 
of  litvtkttum.  where  he  prophetically 
foretells  the  downfall  ot  some  rtlig- 
ions  system  or  tenets,  whicli  he  com- 
pares to  Babylon,  once  the  proudest 
and  most  powerl'ui  city  in  the  woiJd, 
but,  in  his  time,  fallen  from  its  high 
and  palmy  state  into  a  condition  of 
utter  ruin  and  desolation,  through  its 
hixury,  licentiousness,  and  ett'emi- 
nacy. 


NAG 


256 


NEM 


N. 


JTaglfar  (na'j^^i-far).  [Old  Norse  ncujl, 
a  luunaii  nail,  and  fm-a,  to  j^o,  to 
fare. J  {Scuiid.  Mi/tfi.)  A  ship  con- 
structed by  tlie  Giants  out  ot  dead 
men's  naifs.  On  board  of  it  the 
Giants  ^\■ill  eml)ark,  at  Kagnarok,  to 
give  battle  to  the  gods. 

Na'iads.  [Lat.  Niiides,  Gr.  NalaSe?.] 
( (ii-.  (/•  Rom.  }[jith. )  Nymphs  of 
lakes,  streams,  and  fountains. 

Nameless  City.  Ancient  Kome  ;  — ■ 
so  called  because  it  had  an  elder  and 
mysterious  name,  which  it  was  death 
to"pront)unce.  This  name  is  said  to 
have  been  Y'lU-ntit^  afterward  trans- 
lated into  the  Greek  word  'FuJ/xt?- 
'PcJAir?,  as  the  Greek  form  of  Rome, 
is  first  mentioned,  amf)ng  Grecian 
writers,  by  Aristotle  or  Theophrastus. 
4i^="  '•  They  [cert^iin  local  names  and 
nicknames]  are  all  inferior,  I  think,  to  tlie 
one  sacred  and  proverbi:il  name  which 
belonged  to  Home.  Tliey  take  many 
words  to  convey  one  idea.  In  one  word, 
the  secret  qualifying  name  of  the  ancient 
city,  many  ideas  found  expression,  — 
Valentia!'"'  Dr.  Doran. 

Namo  (na'mo'),  or  Na'mus.  A  semi- 
mythical  duke  of  Bavaria,  who  fig- 
ures in  old  romances  of  chivalry  as  one 
of  Charlemagne's  Twelve  Peers. 

Wanna  (nSn'na).  (Scnn<I.  Mi/fli.)  The 
wife  of  Baldur,  famed  for  her  piety 
and  constancy.  When  her  husband 
died,  she  threw  herself  on  the  funeral 
pyre,  and  was  buried  with  him. 

Wantes,  Edict  of.  See  Edict  of 
Nantp:s. 

Napoleon  of  Mexico.  A  name  giv- 
en to  Augusto  Iturbide  (1784-1824), 
emperor  of  Mexico,  whose  career  in 
some  respects  bears  a  distant  re- 
semblance to  that  of  Napoleon  Bo- 
naparte. 

Napoleon  of  Peace.  A  name  some- 
times given  t«»  Louis  Philippe,  king 
of  the  French,  in  allusion  to  the  grent 
increase  in  wealth  and  the  steady 
physical  progress  of  the  nation  during 
his  reign   of  eighteen  years   (1830- 


1848),  —  results  which  may  be  advan- 
tageously compared  with  those  of  the 
first  empire,  it  is  said  that  the  king 
liked  to  be  called  by  this  appellation. 

Nar-cis'sus.  [Gr.  Napxtcrao?.]  ( Gr. 
if  Rom.  Mijth.)  A  son  of  Cephissus 
and  the  nymph  i^iriope.  He  was 
uncommonly  beautiful,  and,  seeing 
his  own  image  reflected  in  a  foun- 
tain, I)ecanie  enamored  of  it,  thinking 
it  to  be  the  nymph  of  the  place.  As 
the  shadow  was  unapproachable,  he 
wasted  away  with  desire,  and  was 
changed  into  a  fiower,  which  still 
bears  his  name.     See  Echo. 

Nastrond  (na'strimd,  40).  [Old  Norse 
7?c/,  a  corpse,  and  stn'ind,  strand.] 
( Scnid.  Mjtli.)  A  noisome  and  horri- 
ble marsh  in  the  under-world,  where 
the  impenitent  will  be  punished  in 
the  future  life. 

Nathaniel,  Sir.  A  grotesque  curate 
in  Shakespeare's  "Love's  Labor's 
Lost." 

Nation  of  Gentlemen.  A  compli- 
mentary designation  given  to  the 
people  of  Scotland  by  George  IV., 
on  occasion  of  a  royal  visit  to  that 
kingdom  in  1822.  He  is  said  to  have 
been  much  struck  with  the  quiet  and 
respectful  demeanor  of  the  multitude, 
which  ollored  a  strong  contrast  to 
the  wild  enthusiasm  with  which  he 
was  greeted  at  Dublin  the  year  be- 
fore. 

Nation  of  Shop-keepers.  A  con- 
tem])tuous  a|ipellation  bestowed  upon 
the  English  by  Napoleon  lioiuiparte. 

Ne-se'ra  (9).  [Gr.  Neaipa.]  The  name 
of  a  girl  mentioned  by  the  Latin 
poets  Horace,  Virgil,  and  Tibullus; 
sometimes  also  introduced  into  mod- 
ern pastoral  poetry  as  the  name  of  a 
mistress  or  sweetheart. 

To  sport  with  Amaryllis  in  the  shade, 
Or  witli  the  tangles  of  Secera's  hair. 

Jfilton. 

Ne'me-an  Lion.     See  Hp:ucules. 
Nem'e-sis.     [Gr.    NeVeat?.]      ( Or.  <f 
Rom.  } fifth.)    A  daughter  of  Nox,  or 


For  the  "  Key  to    the   Scheme  of  rronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


NEO 


257 


NEW 


of  Erebus,  o?iginally  a  personification 
of  conscience;  atterward  regarded  as 
tiae  awful  and  mysterious  goddess  of 
retribution,  who  a\'enges  all  Avrong- 
doiiig,  and  jiunislu's  anil  liuinhlcs  tlie 
promt  and  presumptuous  in  particu- 
lar. 

O  thou,  who  never  yet  of  human  wronjj 
Lett  the  iinbal-.inecu  scak",  jjreat  yeiiiesi.^.' 
Thou  who  didst  call  the  Furies  from  the  abyss, 
And  round  Orestes  bade  them  howl  and  liiss. 
For  that  unnatural  retribution,  — jubt. 
Had  it  been  from  hands  less  near,  —  in  this. 
Thy  former  realm,  I  call  thee  from  the  dust. 

Li/ru>i. 

We'Op-tol'e-mUS.      [Gr.  NeoirTdAe/ixo?.] 

{Gr.  (f  Earn.  Mi/(h.)  The  son  of 
Achilles.  [Called  also  Pynhvs.'] 
See  Pykrhus. 

M'eph.'e-lo-coc-eyg'i-a.  [Gr.  Ne(f)e- 
XoKOKKvyia^  cloud-cuckoo-town,  from 
re^eAr;,  cloud,  and  kokkv^,  cuckoo.]  A 
town  built  in  tiie  clouds  bv  the  cuck- 
oos, in  the  "  Birds"  of  Aristophanes, 
a  comedy  intended  as  a  satire  on 
Athenian  frivolity  and  credulity,  on 
that  building  of  castles  in  tlie  air,  and 
that  dreaming  expectation  of  a  life  of 
luxury  and  ease,  in  which  the  great 
mass  of  the  Athenian  people  of  that 
day  indulged,  i'his  imaginary  city 
occupied  the  whole  horizon,  and  was 
designed  to  cut  off  the  gods  from  all 
connection  with  mankind,  and  even 
from  the  power  of  receiving  sacritices, 
so  as  to  force  them  ultimately  to 
surrender  at  discretion  to  the  birds. 
The  name  occurs  also  in  the  "  Vera^ 
Historioe "  of  Lucian,  a  romance 
written  probably  in  the  age  of  M. 
Am'clius  Antoninus,  and  composed 
with  the  view  of  ridiculing  the  authors 
of  extraordinary  tales. 

Without  flyin°;  to  Xephelococcjigm,  or  to  the 
court  of  Queen  Slab,  we  can  meet  with  sharp- 
ers, bullies,  hard-hearted,  impudent  debau- 
chees, and  women  worthy  of  such  paramours. 

3Iacaulay. 

What  you  do 
For  bread,  will  taste  of  common  grain,  not 

grapes. 
Although  you  have  a  vineyard  in  Champagne, 
Much  less  in  Naphelococctigia, 
As  mine  was,  peradventure. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Browning. 

ITep'tune  (nep'ch'oon).  [I.at.  Neptu- 
nw6*.]  ((/'/•.  ()■•  Rom,.  }fiilli.)  The  god 
of  the  sea  and  of  all  other  waters,  the 
son  of  Saturn  and  Ops,  the  brother 
of  Jupiter,  and  the  husband  of  Am- 


phitrite.     He  is   represented  with  a 
trident  in  his  hand. 

Ne're-ids  (9).  [Lat.  Nereides,  Gr. 
NTjpeiSf?.]  {Gr.  i^-  Jioni.  MyfJi.)  Sea- 
nyinphs,  daughters  of  Nereus  and 
l)oris.  The\'  were  fifty  in  number, 
and  were  regarded  as  nymphs  of  the 
Mediterranean,  in  distinction  from 
the  Oceanids,  or  nymphs  of  the  great 
ocean. 

Ne'reus  (9).  [Gr.  Nrjpeu?.]  (Gr.  ^ 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  sea-god,  father  of 
the  Nereids ;  described  as  a  wise  and 
unerring  old  man,  ruling  over  the 
Mediterranean,  or,  more  particularly, 
the  iEgean  Sea. 

Ne-ris'sa.  Portia's  waitiner-woman, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Merchant  of  Ven- 
ice."    See  PoKTiA. 

S£§=  "  Nerissa  is  .  .  .  a  clever,  confi- 
dential waitinj;- woman,  who  has  caught  a 
little  of  her  lady's  elefrauco  and  romance  ; 
she  atTects  to  be  lively  and  sententious, 
falls  in  love,  and  makes  her  favor  con- 
ditional on  the  fortune  of  the  caskets, 
and.  in  short,  mimics  her  mistress  with 
good  emphasis  and  discretion." 

Mm.  Jameson. 

Nero  of  the  K'orth.  A  title  given 
to  Christian  II.  (1480-1559),  kin<? 
of  Denmark  and  Sweden,  and  well 
merited  by  him  on  account  of  his 
ferocious  cruelty. 

Wes'sus.  [Gr.  Neo-<r6?.]  {  Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  famous  Centaur,  who,  for 
offering  violence  to  Dejanira,  was  slain 
by  Hercules  with  a  poisoned  arrow, 
wdiich  afterward  became  the  cause  of 
Horcules's   own  death.      See  Deja- 

NIKA. 

Nes'tor.  [Gr.  NeVrajp.]  ( Gr.  (f  Rovi. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Ncleus  and  Chloris, 
and  king  of  Pylos  in  Triphylia.  He 
took  a  prominent  part  in  the  Trojan 
war,  acting  as  counselor  of  the  other 
Grecian  chiefs,  but  was  equally  dis- 
tinguished for  his  valor  in  the  field 
of  battle.  Homer  extols  his  wisdom, 
Justice,  bravery,  and  eloquence.  He 
lived  to  so  great  an  age  that  his  ad- 
vice and  authority  were  deemed  equal 
to  those  of  the  immortal  gods. 

New  Albion.     See  Albion,  New. 
New    Am'ster-dam.       [D.     Nieuio 
Amsterdam.']     The  original  name  of 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 

17 


NEW 


258 


NIC 


the  presentcityof  New  York;  —  given 
to  it  by  the  lirst  settlers,  Avho  were 
Dutcii.' 
New      Atlantis.       See     Atlantis, 
The  Ni:\v. 

Newbury,  Jack  of.     See  Jack  of 

NliWULUY. 

New  Christians.  A  name  given  in 
Portugal,  ill  the  tifteeiith  century, 
to  the  Jews,  who,  yiekliug  to  coni- 
jnilsioii,  suUurcd  thciiisfh  es  to  be 
l)aj)tize(l  cii  iif's.<i',  but  who  in  private 
reinaim-(l  faithliil  to  their  old  religion, 
and  continued  scrupulously  to  observe 
the  Mosaic  ceremonies. 

New'come,  Colonel.  A  prominent 
character  in  Thackeray's  ncnel,  "The 
Newcomes;"  distinguished  for  the 
moral  beauty  of  his  life. 

New'come,  Johnny.  A  nickname 
for  any  raw,  unpracticed  youtli  or 
person,  especially  any  very  young 
olHcer  in  the  anny  or  navy  of  Great 
Britain. 

"A'  cf>mcs  o'  t-.iking  folk  on  the  right  eidc,  I 
trow,"  (luoth  Ciilcli  to  himself;  "  anil  I  had 
onco  thu  ill  hap  to  s  ly  lie  was  but  a  Johnnie 
Xewco  lie  in  our  town,  and  the  carle  bore  the 
family  an  ill-will  ever  since."       Sir  IV.  Scott. 

NewCon-nec'ti-cuttkon-net'tl-kiit). 
A  name  fornierly  given  to  the  Western 
Keserve.     See  We.stkrn  Kesekvk. 

New  France.  An  old  name  of  Can- 
ada, wliich  was  lirst  settled  and  pos- 
sessed by  the  French. 

New  Jerusalem.  The  name  by 
which,  among  Christians,  heaven,  or 
the  ab<^de  of  the  redeemed,  is  sym- 
bolized. The  allusion  is  to  the  de- 
scription contained  in  the  twentv-tirst 
chapter  of  the  book  of  Rtvthition. 

Newland,  Abraham.  A  name  by 
Avhicli  a  15ank-of-I'Liiglaiid  note  was 
long  known,  owing  to  its  l)eiiiLj  made 
pHy.il)le  to  Mr.  Newland,  the  cashier. 
An  old  song,  fifty  or  sixty  years  ago, 
ran  thus:  — 

Tor  fashion  and  arts,  skould  you  Bcek  for- 
eign pirts. 
It  matters  not  wherever  yo'i  land, 
Hebrew,  I>»itin,  or  Greek",  the  same  language 

they  ppeak. 
The  language  of  Ahraham  Sewland. 

Ciioncs. 
Oh   Abrahnni    Xrwlan'f,   notified  Abraham 
yewland  '. 


With  compliments  crammed,  you  may  die 

and  be  damned. 
If  you  haven't  an  Auruhain  yewlaml." 

New  Moses.  [Gr.  Mioarj?  ueo^.]  A 
designatiiin  given,  by  the  later  Greek 
writers,  to  Anastasius,  a  presbyter  and 
monk  of  Mount  Sinai,  who  lived  to- 
ward the  end  of  the  seventh  century. 

New  Netherlands.  The  name  orig- 
inalh'  given  to  the  Dutch  colony  or 
settlements  included  within  what  is 
now  the  State  of  New  York. 

New  Sweden,  or  New  Swede'- 
land.  The  name  given  to  the  ter- 
ritory between  Virginia  and  New 
York,  while  it  was  in  the  jiosi-ession 
of  the  Swedes,  who  founded  a  col- 
ony here  in  1(}"27.  It  was  afterward 
claimed  by  the  Dutch. 

New  "World.  A  familiar  name  for 
the  Western  Hemisphere.  By  whom 
it  was  lirst  employed  is  not  known. 
But,  from  its  obvious  appropriate- 
ness, it  must  have  been  applied  con- 
temporaneously with  the  discovery. 
U]jon  the  tomb  of  Columbus,  Terdi- 
nand  ordered  this  inscription  to  be 
placed :  — 

"A  Castilla  y  a  Leon 
Nuovo  niondo  dio  Colon," 

that  is.  To  Castile  and  to  Leon,  Co- 
lumbus gave  a  New  World. 

Nibelung,  King.     See  Kikg  Nibe- 

lANO. 

Nibelungen.     See  Kixo  NinELUXG. 

And  now  has  begun,  in  Nanci,  as  in  that 
doomed  Hall  of  the  yibelunyeii,  "a  murder 
grim  and  great."  Carlyle. 

Nicholas,  St.     See  St.  Nicholas. 
Nick,  Old.     See  Old  Nick. 
Nickers.     See  Tityre  Tus. 

Nick'Ie-Ben.  A  familiar  Scottish 
name  for  the  Devil.  (See  Burns'.s 
'*  Address  to  the  Deil.")  Bm  is  a 
Scotch  adverb,  denoting  toward,  or 
into,  the  inner  apartment  of  a  house. 
It  is  used  adjectively  and  metaphor- 
ically to  denote  intimacy,  favor,  or 
honor.     See  Old  Nick. 

Nickle-bj^,  Mrs.  (nik'l-bn.  The 
mother  of  Nicholas  Nickleby,  in 
Dickens's  novel  of  this  name;  a 
widoAv  lady  of  no  force  of  character, 
chiefly  remarkable  on  account  of  her 


cei~  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  ExplanatioDi, 


NIC 


259 


NIS 


haljit  of  introdiicintr,  in  conversation, 
topics  wlidlly  irrelevant  to  the  sul)iect 
under  cousiileration,  and  ot'  always 
dcclarini;",  when  any  tliiui;-  imantivi- 
pated  oceiMTed,  that  siie  had  expect- 
ed it  all  aliiii,!;",  and  had  prophesied 
to  that  priH'ise  ettect  on  divers  (un- 
known) occasions. 

Tliis  is  so  thorou^lily  De-Qiiuiceyisli  (like 
J/;-s.  S'iiJ:!,'  iti  l)riii^iu;^  in  i)ei»ims  and  thint;.s 
quite  indeptMulentoftlie  niiitter  on  tlio  td/iis), 
tliat  of  Course  1  cannot  conii)l;iin  of  Ins  tlius 
writing  "an  iutinite  deal  of  nothing." 

R.  S/ieltoii  Mucketizic. 

Nick'le-by,  Nicholas.  The  hero  of 
Dickens's  novel  of  the  same  name. 

Nic'nev-en.  A  ^i^antic  and  malig- 
nant female  spirit  of  the  old  popular 
Scottish  mythiilogy.  The  Scottish 
poet  Uunbar  has  i^iven  a  spirited  de- 
scription of  this  lia<;-  ridiuif  at  the 
head  of  witches  and  fairies,  sorcer- 
esses and  elves,  inditterently,  upon 
the  ghostly  eve  of  AU-hailow-mass. 
See  his  "  Flyting  of  Dunbar  and 
Kennedy." 

Nicole  (ne''kol').  A  female  servant 
of  M.  Jourdain,  in  Moliere's  comedy, 
"  Le  Bourgeois  Gentilhomme,"  who 
sees  the  folly  of  her  master,  and  ex- 
poses it  in  a  most  natural  and  amus- 
mg  manner. 

Nidli6?g  (ned^hog,  46).  (Samd. 
Afytli.)  A  terrible  dragon  who  dwells 
in  Nastriind,  and  continually  gnaws 
the  root  of  Yggdrasil,  the  mundane 
ash-tree. 

Niflheim  (nef^l-hlm).  [Old  Norse 
nifl,  cloud,  mist,  and  heiiiii\  home.] 
{^ctnd.  Mijt'i.)  A  region  of  eternal 
cold,  fog,  darkness,  and  horror,  on 
the  north  of  Ginnimga-gap.  It  con- 
sisted of  nine  worlds,  reserved  lor 
those  that  died  of  disease,  or  old  age, 
and  was  ruled  over  l)v  Hela,  or 
death.  [Written  also  N  i  f  1  h  e  i  m  r, 
N  i  \'i'Q  1  h  e  i  m,  N  i  f  f  1  e  h  e  i  m,  and 
Niflhel.] 

Nigel.     See  Olifaunt,  Nigel. 

Nightmare  of  Europe.  An  appella- 
tion given  to  Napoleon  Bonaparte, 
whose  schemes  of  personal  aggran- 
dizement and  whose  stupendous  mil- 
itary successes  terrified,  and,  for  a 
time,  stupefied,  the  naticms  of  Eu- 
rope. 


Nim'rod.  A  pseudonym  of  Charles 
.lames  Apperley  (d.  184:}),  an  Kng- 
lish  writer  on  sporting  sul>iects.  He 
was  for  many  years  looked  up  to  as 
the  highest  authority  on  all  matters 
connected  with  the  lield,  the  road,  or 
the  turf. 

Nine  Gods.     See  Novknsidks. 

Lars  I'orscna  of  Clnsiuni, 

By  tlie  .Sine  Goi/s  he  swure.      Marauhv/. 

Nine  Worthies.  See  Worthies, 
The  Nine. 

Ni'nus.  [Gr.  NT^o?.]  ( (Jr.  (f  Rain. 
Mt/f/i.)  The  son  of  lielus,  the  hus- 
band of  Semirauiis,  and  the  reputed 
builder  of  Nineveh  and  founder  of 
the  A.ssyrian  monarchy. 

Ni'o-be.  [Gr.  Nio/St,.]  {Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  daughter  of  Tantalus, 
and  the  wife  of  Amphion,  king  of 
Thebes.  On  the  strength  of  her 
more  luunerous  progenv,  she  i^ai  her- 
self before  Latona,  and'  her  six  sons 
and  six  daughters  were  in  conse- 
quence slain  by  Apollo  and  Diana, 
while  the  weeping  Niobe  wa^;  changed 
into  a  stone,  and  trans])orted  in  a 
whirlwind  to  the  top  of  Mount  Sip- 
ylus,  where  she  has  ever  since  re- 
mained, her  tears  flowing  unceasing- 

The  Niohe  of  nations!  there  she  stands. 
Childless  and  crownless  in  lier  voiceless  ■vro«. 
Jjt/ron  (on  Rome). 

Nip,  Number.     See  Numueh  Nip. 

Nipper,  Susan.  An  attendant  upon 
Florence  Dombey,  in  Dickens's  novel 
of  "Dombey  and  Son;"  a  spicy, 
though  good-natured  little  body, 
sharp  and  biting,  but  affectionate 
and  faithful. 

Niqu6e  (ne'ka').  A  female  character 
in  the  romance  of  "Amadis  de  Gaul." 
Her  godmother,  the  fairy  Zorplu'e, 
wishing  to  withdraw  her  from  the  in- 
cestiu)us  love  of  her  brother  Aiia.'-- 
terax,  enchanted  her,  after  having 
placed  her  upon  a  magnilicent  throne. 

Ni'sus.  [Gr.  Nro-o?.]  A  Trojan  youth 
who  accompanied  /Eneas  to  Italy, 
after  the  fall  ftf  Troy,  and  who  is  cel- 
ebrated for  his  devoted  attachment 
to  Eurvalus.  The  two  friends  fought 
with  great  bravery  against  the  Rutu- 
lians,  but  at  last  Nisus  peri.'^hed  in 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  nunibers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


NJO 


260 


NOR 


attempting  the  rescue  of  his  friend 
Euryalus,  who  had  fallen  into  the  en- 
emy's liuiuls. 

Njord  (iPviird,  4G).  (Scand.  Myth.) 
The  god  of  the  winds,  and  especially 
of  the  north  wind.  [Written  also 
N  ior d.J 

^oakes,    John    o',    or     John     a. 

A  fictitious  character  made  use  of  j 
by  lawyers  in  actions  of  ejectment, 
usually'  coupled  with  the  name  of 
Ju/i II,  or  Tom,  Siylts.  Many  other 
names  Avere  also  formerly  used  in 
these  tietitious  proceedings.  John  a 
Noakes  and  J(jhn  a  Styles  being  otl- 
en  employed  in  this  way,  they  came 
to  have  the  appearance  and  reputa- 
tion of  l>eing  very  litigious  charac- 
ters. See  Doe,  John,  and  Styles, 
Tom.     [Written  also  No kes.] 

4Q=-  "  Originally  the  name  [Noakes] 
•was  spelled  Aten  Oke  and  Atten  Oke ; 
aft«rward,  when  the  preposition  waa 
contracted,  the  final  N  adhered  (as  in 
some  other  instances)  to  the  name  of 
the  tree,  giving  us  A  -  Noke,  subse- 
quently pluralized  into  Noakes.  John- 
A-Noakes  and  his  constant  antagonist, 
John  Atte  Style,  were  formerly  as  well 
known  in  our  law-courts  as  the  re- 
doubtable John  Doe  and  Kichard  lloe  of 
later  times.  Jack  Noakes  and  Tom  Styles 
—  the  phrase  by  which  we  designate  the 
ignobile  vulgus  —  are  lineal  descendants 
of  those  litigious  parties.  In  the  Middle 
Ages,  the  phrase  John  at  Style  was  in 
common  use,  to  designate  a  plebeian ;  and 
it  still  survives  in  the  slightly  altered 
form  above  given."  Lower. 

A  litigated  point,  fairlv  hun^  up;  — for  in- 
Btanco,  whether  John  o'  "Xokesms  nose  could 
stand  in  Tom  o'  Stiles  his  face,  without  a  tres- 
pass or  not.  Sterne. 

There  is,  in  the  present  day,  so  little  op- 
portiinitv  of  a  man  of  fortune  and  family  ris- 
ing: to  that  eminence  at  the  bar  which  is  at- 
tained by  adventurers  who  are  as  willing  to 
plead  for  John  a  Xokes  va  for  the  first  noble  of 
the  land,  that  I  was  early  disgusted  with  prac- 
tice. Sir  W.  Scott. 

Nod,  Land  of.     See  Land  of  Nod. 

Noddy,  Tom.    )   A   type  of  fools  or 
Noodle,  Tom.    j   folly;  a  popular  des- 
ignation for  any  very  foolish  person. 

7*3"oU,  Old.     See  Old  Noll. 

I'To-Popery  Riots.  {Scot.  Hist.)  A 
name  given  to  riots  at  Edinburgh  and 
Glasgow,  Feb.  5,  1779 ;  and  in  Lon- 
don, from   June  2  to  June  9,  1780. 


The  latter  were  occasioned  by  the 
zeal  of  Lord  George  (iordon,  and 
40,000  persons  are  said  to  have  taken 
part  in  them.  In  the  end,  210  of  the 
rioters  were  killed,  and  248  were 
wounded,  of  whom  75  died  after- 
wards in  the  hospitals. 

Norman  Reconciliation.     See  La- 

M()l  UETTK.S    Kiss. 

Nor'na.  A  mysterious  being  of  super- 
natural powers,  in  Scott's  novel  of 
"The  Pirate." 

jeSy=  ''  Thecharacter  of  Noma  is  meant 
to  be  an  instance  of  that  singular  kind 
of  insanity,  during  which  the  patient, 
while  she  or  he  retains  much  subtlety 
and  address  for  .  .  .  imposing  upon  oth- 
ers, is  still  more  ingenious  in  endeav- 
oring to  impose  upon  themselves." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Norns.  [Old  Norse  Xornir,  pi.  of 
Xunui.']  {Scaiu/.  Myth.)  Three  vir- 
gin goddesses  who  weave  the  woof 
of  human  destiny  sitting  by  the  As- 
gard  root  of  the  world-tree  Yggdra- 
sil,  which  they  carefully  tend.  Their 
names  are  Urda  (the  past),  Yerdandi 
(the  present),  and  Skidda  (the  fu- 
ture). The  name  is  also  given  to 
subordinate  beings,  some  good  and 
some  bad,  of  whom  one  is  assigned 
to  every  person  born  into  the  world, 
and  determines  his  fate. 

North,  Christopher,  or  Kit.  A  cel- 
ebrated pseudonym  adopted  by  Pro- 
fessor John  "Wilson  (1785-1854)  in 
connection  Avith  the  famous  series  of 
dialogues  tirst  published  in  "  Black- 
wood's Magazine  "  and  entitled 
'' Noctes  Ambrosianae,"  of  which  he 
was  the  chief  author. 

North  Britain.  A  popular  synonym 
of  Scotlmul,  which  fonns  the  north- 
ern part  of  the  island  of  Britain,  or 
Great  Britain. 

The  reviewers  of  ,Vbr/A  Britain,  in  common 
with  the  other  inhabitants  of  the  Scottish 
metropolis,  enjoy  some  advantases,  unknown, 
it  is  believed,  to  their  southern  Drethren. 

Edin.  Rev. 

Northern  Apostle.      See  Apostle 

OF    THE    NoKTTL 

Northern  Athens.  A  name  given 
to  the  city  of  Edinburgh,  from  a  fan- 
cied resemblance  in  its  appearance  to 
Athens,  and  in  allusion  also  to  its  lit- 


l^T"  For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanations, 


NOR 


261 


NUT 


erary  and  scientific  institutions.     See 

MoDEltN   AtIIEIS'S,  1. 

KTorthern  Bear.  A  popular  designa- 
tion ot  liusisia. 

For  ourselves,  we  believe  that  in  arranging 
the  terms  of  peace  he  Ltlie  treneli  emperoi-] 
was  as  little  inelined  to  clip  the  claws  uf  the 
JS'ortheni  Liear  as  his  ally.     Christ.  Exaiuiner. 

Northern  Giant.  A  common  de.'-ig- 
natioM  of  llussia,  in  allusion  to  the 
enormous  size,  the  rapid  growth,  and 
the  immense  |)o\ver  and  resources  of 
that  empire,  which  occupies  the  whole 
northern  ])ortion  of  the  eastern  hem- 
isphere, from  Norway  to  Behring's 
Strait,  and  a  large  adjoining  region 
in  North  America. 

It  is  no  sinull  (lclij;ht  to  the  lovers  of  truth, 
freedom,  and  Eng-iand,  to  see  that  the  North- 
emi  Giant  has,  by  dint  of  too  nuich  Ji)ies.<e, 
suffered  his  once-willing  prey  to  sliii  through 
his  hands.  Edin.  Rev. 

Northern  Harlot,  The  Infamous. 
[Fr.  Ivfdiiie  Cutin  (hi  Nuvd.\  A 
name  given  to  Elizabeth  Petrowna 
(1709-17G1),  empress  of  Russia,  in- 
famous for  her  sensuality. 

Northern    He-rod'o-tus.     A  name 

given  to  Snorro  Sturleson  (1179- 
1241),  a  native  of  Iceland,  famous  as 
a  poet,  lawgiver,  and  historian.  He 
lived  many  years  at  the  courts  of 
Norway  and  Sweden,  and  composed 
a  general  history  of  the  North  from 
the  ancient  songs  of  the  skalds,  and 
from  other  sources. 

Northern  Semiramis.  See  S emir- 
amis  OF  THE  North. 

North-west  Territory.  {Amer. 
Hid.)  A  region  north-west  of  the 
Ohio  River,  bounded  on  the  north  by 
a  line  touching  the  southern  bound- 
ary of  lakes  Erie  and  Michigan,  and 
on  the  west  by  the  Mississippi  River. 
After  the  war  of  the  Revolution,  it 
was  ceded  to  the  federal  government 
by  the  States  owning  or  laving  claim 
to  it.  A  bill  for  its  organization  was 
passed,  in  1787,  by  the  continental 
congress,  which  immediately  began 
to  exercise  jurisdiction  over  the  terri- 
tory; but  its  full  or  complete  organi- 
zation did  not  take  place  until  1799. 
See  Western  Reserve. 

,^6r'uni-be'ga.    A  name  formerly  giv- 


en to  some  now  unknown  subarctic 
portion  of  North  America. 

Now,  fiom  the  north 
Of  Norumhega,  and  the  Suiuoid  t-hore, 
Bursting  their  brazen  dungeon,  armed  with 

ice 
And  snow  an<l  hull,  and  stormy  gust  and  flaw, 
Koreas,  and  C'a'cias,  and  Argtstes  loud, 
And  Thraeias,  rend  the  woods,  and  seas  up- 
turn. Milton. 

Nor'val.  The  name  of  an  aged  peas 
ant  and  his  son,  in  Home's  tragedy 

of  "  Douglas." 

The  reflection  perhaps  reminded  him  tliat 
he  had  better,  like  young  jS'onars  father, 
"  increase  his  store."  Dickens. 

Norway,  Maid  of.  See  Maid  of 
Norway. 

Novalis  (no-va-'lis).  A  pseudonym 
of  Friedrich  von  Hardenberg  (17^2- 
1801),  a  distinguished  German  litte- 
rateur  and  poet. 

No-ven'si-des,  o?-  No-ven'si-les. 
[Lat.  1IUVUS,  new,  and  inside  re,  To 
settle.]  {Jiviti.  Myth  )  A  name  given 
by  the  ancient  Romans  to  the  new 
gods  received  from  abroad,  in  distinc- 
tion from  the  Indigetes,  or  native 
gods.  Some  have  thought  that  the 
first  part  of  the  word  was  from  7U)Vem, 
nine,  and  have  asserted  that  the 
Novensides  were  nine  gods  to  whom 
Jupiter  gave  i)ermission  to  hurl  his 
thunderbolts.  But  this  opinion  seems 
not  to  be  supported  by  evidence. 

Nox.  [Lat.]  (Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.) 
Goddess  of  night ;  one  of  the  most 
ancient  of  the  deities.  By  her  brotluT 
Erebus,  she  becaiue  the  mother  of 
^ther  (air)  and  Dies  (day). 

Nub'bles,  Kit  (nub'blz).  A  char- 
acter in  Dickens's  "  Old  Curiosity 
Shop." 

Number  Nip.  The  same  as  Eubeznhi, 
the  famous  mountain  goblin  of  Ger- 
many. His  history  is  told  by  Musaius 
in  his  "  Popular  Tales."    See  Rube- 

ZAIIL. 

Nun  of  Kent.  See  Holy  Maid  of 
Kent. 

Nu'ri-el  (9).  [Another  form  of  Uriel. 
See  F^riel.]  In  the  Rabbinical  my- 
thology, the  name  of  an  angel  who 
presided  over  hailstorms. 

Nut-brown  Maid.  The  subject  of  a 
celebrated  English  ballad  of  the  same 
name,  of  uncertain  date  and  origin; 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


NUT 


2G2 


NYM 


ft  perfect  female  character,  exposed, 
like  Boccaccio's  (iriselda,  to  tlie  se- 
verest trials,  subinittiii^^  without  a 
miinmir  to  uiiiiaritcd  cruelty,  dis- 
arininjjj  a  tonnciitor  by  gentleness 
and  patii'nce,  and,  finally,  recom- 
pensed tor  her  virtues  by  transj)orts 
rendered  more  exquisite  by  her  suf- 
fering. 

4®="  The  most  ancient  form  in  which 
the  b:illaii  is  no.v  exttiit  is  in  Arnold's 
"  Chronicle."'  the  earlie.-t  eJition  of  which 
if?  thought  to  tiave  been  printed  in  1d02. 
It  seems  to  liave  been  long  forgotten,  but 
was  at  lengtti  brought  to  notice  by  Percy, 
who  inchilcd  it  in  his  •'  Rcliques  of  An- 
cient Knglish  Poetry."''  This  ballad  has 
been  modernized  by  Prior,  who  entitled  it 
"  Henry  and  Enma,"'  supposing  it  to 
have  been  founded  on  the  history  of  Lord 
Clifford,  the  •' Shepaerd  Lord."  See 
Shephehd  Lord. 

Nutmeg  State.  A  popular  name,  in 
America,  for  the  State  of  Connecticut, 
the  inliabitants  of  which  have  such 
a  reputation  for  .shrewdness  that  they 


have  been  jocosely  accused  of  palm- 
ing off  wooden  nutmegs  on  unsus- 
pecting jjurcliasers,  instead  of  the 
genuine  article. 

Nym.  A  follower  of  Falstaff,  and 
an  arrant  rogue,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor." 

flf^  To  nim  is  an  old  word,  still  com- 
mon among  thieves,  meaning  to  pilfer, 
to  steal. 

The  reader  may  expect  me  to  explain  the 
motives  wliy  I  have  to  loiifr  persisted  in  dis- 
clainiiiifjj  tlic  works  (if  wliich  T  ."in  now  w:it- 
in;j.  To  this  it  would  be  difficult  to  jrive  nny 
otlier  reply  s.ive  that  of  Cori)oral  .V'///i,— it 
was  the  author's  humor  or  caprice  for  the 
time.  Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Nymplis.  [Lat.  Xj/mphce.  Or.  Nvu^ai.] 
{(h-.  t)'-  Item,  ^fl|th.)  rinddes.ses  of  an 
inferior  rank,  inhabiting  the  sea, 
rivers,  lakes,  fountains,  woods,  trees, 
mountains,  &:c.,  and  having  .special 
names  according  to  the  nature  of 
the  place  in  which  they  dwell ;  as, 
Oceanids,  Xaiads,  Dryads,  Hamadrj'- 
ads,  Oreads,  ^c. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explamitions, 


OAN 


263 


ODI 


o. 


O-an'nes.  {Ea  si  em  Myth.)  A  Baby- 
lonian ^od  represented  as  a  monster, 
half  man  and  half  tish.  He  lived 
amongst  men  durinjj^  the  daytime, 
instructing  them  in  the  use  of  letters, 
and  in  the  arts  and  sciences;  but  at 
night  he  retired  to  the  sea. 

Obadiah.  The  name  of  a  servant  in 
Sterne's  "  Life  and  Opinions  of  Tris- 
tram Shandy,  Gent." 

Obermann  (n/bef-man).  The  title  of 
a  novel  by  Etienne  I'ivert  de  .Senan- 
cour  (177'0-18-4G),  and  the  name  of 
the  hero,  who  is  a  personification  of 
moral  elevation  unaccompanied  by 
genius,  a  man  of  feeling  tortured  by 
tlie  absence  not  only  of  the  means  of 
action,  but  of  all  stimulus  to  it. 

0'ber-6n,(*/'  Ob'er-6n.  (  Fairy  Mytli.) 
The  king  of  the  fairies.  He  is  the  elf- 
in dwari-Elbtriih,  or  Albtruh,  whose 
name  became  Alberon  or  Aubtraii  in 
French,  and  sul)set|uently  in  English 
Oheron.  He  was  represented  as  en- 
dowed with  magical  powers,  and  with 
the  qualities  of  a  good  and  upright 
monarch,  rewarding  those  who  prac- 
ticed truth  and  honesty,  and  punish- 
ing those  who  acted  otherwise.  He 
and  Titania,  his  wife,  are  fabled  to 
have  inhabited  India,  and  to  have 
crossed  the  seas  to  Northern  Europe 
to  dance  by  the  light  of  the  moon. 
He  is  familiar  to  all  readers  of  Shake- 
speare, and  has  been  made  the  sub- 
ject of  a  romantic  poem  by  Wieland, 
having  this  name  as  its  title. 

"  Xny,  but  T  must  see  the  riders,"  answered 
Wamba;  "perhaps  they  are  come  from  Fairy- 
land with  a  message  from  King  Oheron." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

And  play  the  graceless  robber  on 
Your  grave-eyed  brother  Oberon. 

Leiijh  Hunt. 

0-bi'dah.  The  subject  of  an  allegory 
by  Dr.  Johnson,  in  the  "  Rambler" 
(No.  05),  which  relates  the  adven- 
tures and  misf(»rtunes  of  a  young  man 
during  the  journey  of  a  day,  and  is 
designed  as  a  picture  of  human  life. 

O-bid'i-cut.    A  fiend  mentioned  bv 


Shakespeare  ("  Lear,"  a.  iv.,  sc.  1] 
as  ]>rovoUing  men  to  the  gratitication 

of  lust.       See  EMBBEUTKiinUET,  1. 

O'Cataract,  Jehu.  A  sobriquet  given 
to  John  Neal  (b.  1793),  a  versatile 
American  author,  on  account  of  his 
impetuosity;  adopted  by  him  in  some 
of  liis  works  as  a  pseudonym. 

Occidente,  Maria  dell'  (mS-re'a  del 
ot-che-deii'ta,  K)2).  A  pseudonym 
adopted  by  Mrs.  Maria  (Gowen) 
Brooks  (1795-1815),  an  American 
writer,  whom  Southcy  pronounced 
"  the  most  impassioned  and  most 
imaginative  of  all  poetesses."  She 
is  best  known  as  the  author  of 
"  Zophiel,  or  The  Bride  of  Seven." 

O-ce'a-na.  The  name  of  an  imag- 
inary country  described  by  James 
Harrington  (l(ill-lfi77)  in  a  politi- 
cal romance  bearing  the  same  title, 
and  illustrating  the  author'.s  idea  of 
a   model  commonwealth. 

O-ce'a-nids.  [Lat.  Ocennides,  Gr. 
'nKt-ai/tfic?.]  (6'/-.  (Jr-  Earn.  Myth.) 
Nymphs  of  the  ocean,  said  to  be  three 
thousand  in  number;  daughters  of 
Oceanus. 

O-ce'a-nus.  [Gr.  'fiKeavo?.]  {Gr.  (f- 
Jioin.  Myth.)  The  god  of  the  great 
salt  river  which,  in  the  ancient  cos- 
mogony, was  thought  to  encompass 
the  whole  earth.  He  was  the  son  of 
Ccelus  and  Terra,  the  husband  of 
Tethys,  and  the  father  of  the  rivers 
and  ocean-nymphs. 

O'chil-tree,  Ed'ie.  An  old  wander- 
ing beggar,  garrulous  and  kind- 
hearted,  who  performs  a  prominent 
part  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of 
"  The  Antiquary." 

O'Con'nell's  TaU.  A  nickname  given, 
in  England,  after  the  passage  of  the 
Reform  Bill  (in  1832),  to  a  parlia- 
mentary body  voting  together  under 
the  leadership  of  Daniel  O'Connell, 
the  celebrated  Irish  agitator. 

O'din.  {Scmd.  Myth.)  The  supreme 
and  omniscient  ruler  of  the  universe, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ODO 


264 


OGI 


the  kinf:^  of  ^och  and  men,  and  the 
reputed  ])r()^eiiitor  of"  the  Scandi- 
navian kin^s.  lie  eorresjjonds  both 
to  the  ./u/)i/cr  and  the  Mnrs  of  classi- 
cal niytliologv.  As  god  of  Avar,  he 
holds  his  court  in  ^'alllaIla,  surround- 
ed hv  all  brave  warriors  who  have 
fallen  in  battle,  and  attended  by  two 
favorite  wolves,  to  whom  he  gives  his 
share  of  food;  for  he  himself  lives 
on  wine  alone.  On  his  shoulders 
he  carries  two  ravens,  Ilugin  (mind) 
and  Munin  (memory),  whom  he  dis- 
patches every  day  to  bring  him  news 
of  all  that  is  .  doing  throughout  the 
world.  He  has  three  great  treasures; 
namely,  Sleipnir,  an  eight -footed 
horse  of  marvelous  swiftness;  (lung- 
nir,  a  spear,  which  never  fails  to 
strike  what  it  is  aimed  at;  and  Draup- 
nir,  a  magic  ring,  which  every  ninth 
night  drops  eight  other  rings  of 
equal  value.  At  Hagnari  k,  Odin  will 
be  swallowed  up  bv  the  Avolf  Fenrir. 
[Called  also  Alfadur^  and  by  a  great 
many  other  names.] 

tf^  The  (lerman  tribes  worshiped  Odin 
under  the  iiaine  of  Wodm^  or  Wuntan. 
The  fourth  d-iy  of  the  week.  Wednesday 
(/.  p.,  Woden's  day),  was  saered  to  him. 

O-doli'er-ty-,  Mor'gan,  Sir.  A 
pseudonym  of  Dr.  William  Maginn 
(1793-1842),  a  frecjuent  contributor 
to  "Blackwood's  Magazine  "  and  to 
"  Fraser's  i^lagazine,"'  and  an  inter- 
locutor in  the  •'  Xoctes  Ambrosiana?." 

O'Dowd,  Cornelius.  The  p.'^eudo- 
nym  of  a  writer  in  "  Blackwood's 
Magazine ; "  generally  believed  to 
be  Charles  James  Lever,  the  Irish 
novelist. 

Odur  (o^dcTbf).  {S^and.  Myth.)  The 
name  of  Freyja's  husband.  He 
abandoned  his  wife  on  her  loss  of 
j-outh  and  beauty,  and  was  punished 
by  being  changed  into  a  statue.    See 

FltEVJA. 

O-dys'seus.  [Gr.  *oSu<rcreu'?.]  The 
Greek  form  of  Ulysses.  See  Ulys- 
ses. 

CEd'i-pus.  [Gr.  o;6i'7rov?.]  (Gr.  dj- 
Jiviit.  Myth.)  A  king  of  Thebes,  the 
son  of  haius  and  -locasta.  He  solved 
the  riddle  of  the  .-phinx,  unwittingly 
killed  his  own  father  and  n)arried  his 


mother,  who  bore  him  four  children. 
AV'hen  the  incest  Avas  discovered, 
Jocasta  hung  herself,  and  G^dipus 
Avent  mad,  and  put  out  his  CAvn  eyes. 
See  SiMiiN-V. 

CE'neus.  [Gr.  oJi/ev?.]  (  Gr.  (f-  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  king  of  Calydon,  in  yEtolia, 
and  the  father  of  Meleager,  Tydeus, 
Dejanira,  dsic.     See  Mklkageh. 

(E-no'ne.  [Gr.  Oivciirr).]  (  Gr.  <f-  Rmn. 
Myth.)  A  Phrygian  nymph  beloved 
and  married  by  l^aris,  Avho  alterAvard 
deserted  her  for  Helen.  Tennyson 
has  chosen  (Enone  as  the  subject  of 
one  of  his  minor  poems.     See  I'Aias. 

CE-no'pi-6n.  [Gr.  olionlmi'.]  {  Gr.  if 
Bum.  Myth.)  A  king  of  Chios,  and 
the  father  of  Meroj)e.  The  giant 
Orion  Avas  a  suitor  lor  the  hand  of 
INIerope,  but,  as  G:^nopion  constantly 
deferred  their  marriage,  Orion  once, 
Avhen  intoxicated,  offered  her  A'io- 
lence.  For  this  Q^nopion  blinded 
him,  Avhile  asleep,  and  expelled  him 
from  the  island.  He  aiterAvard  re- 
coA'ered  his  sight,  and  returned  to 
Chios  seeking  reAenge;  but  (E):opi(in 
Avas  not  to  be  found,  his  liiend.-  hav- 
ing concealed  him.     See  Oi;i(»x. 

O'gier  le  Danois  (lu  da'na').  [It. 
Uf/ytro,  0;,(/er(>.  Ofjf,ie!  i.  Eat.  0;,e- 
rius.]  The  hero  of  an  ancient  French 
romance,  Avhose  story  is  ])robably  a 
contribution  from  the  stores  of  Nor- 
man tradition,  Holger,  or  Olger, 
Danske  being  the  national  hero  of 
Denmark.  lie  figures  in  Ariosto's 
"  Orlando  Furioso."  and  other  ro- 
mantic tales  and  poems. 

U^  '•  Acrordinj;  to  some  autliorities, 
his  surnauu'  Avas  bestowed  on  him  be- 
cause lie  ranie  from  Dei  mark  :  others  say 
that  he  took  it  after  fiavin.a;  conquered 
that  country  :  Avhile  others  again  .  .  . 
say  that  Ogier  was  a  Saracen  who  turned 
Cliristian.and  as  they  wrote  to  him  from 
home,  Ti'  es  'lawn^  [You  are  dami  ed], 
for  haA'ini:  cha-'jred  his  reHpon.  the 
French  barons  called  him  in  ji  st.  Ogier 
Dn)nnr,  and  lie  himself  insisted  on 
being  so  called,  when  he  Avas  chris- 
tened. This  surname  agrees  with  the 
assertion  th:it  he  was  condemned  by 
Charleniairne.'  Pnnizzi.  Kcightlev  ad- 
vances tlic  opinion  th;it  Ogier  is  the  Ileliri 
of  the  Edda.  and  in  this  A'iew  Pauizzi 
himself  concurs. 


Uar  For  the   '•  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"   with   the  accojnpanying  Explanations, 


OGL 


2G5 


OLD 


O'gle-by,  Lord  (o'^l-bT).  A  super- 
annuated peer  who  artects  gayety  and 
the  graees  of  youth,  but  is  witluil 
kind-hearted  and  heuevoleut;  a  ehar- 
aeter  in  the  eoniedy  of  tlie  "  Clandes- 
tine Marriage,"  by  Garrick  and  the 
elder  Colnian. 

O'Groat',  John  {or  Johnny  Groat). 
A  name  which  occurs  in  tlie  phrase 
"  John  OHrroat's  House,"  used  to 
designate  an  ancient  buihling  for- 
merly situated  on  Dimcansby  Head, 
remarkable  for  being  the  most  north- 
erly point  in  Great  Britain.  John 
of  Groat,  or  Groot,  and  his  brothers, 
were  originally  from  Holland,  and 
are  said  to  have  settled  here  about 
148D.  According  to  tradition,  the 
liouse  was  of  an  octagonal  shape, 
being  one  room  with  eight  windows 
and  eight  doors,  to  admit  eight  mem- 
bers of  the  family,  the  heads  of  eight 
different  branches  of  it,  to  prevent 
their  quarrels  for  precedence  at  table, 
which  on  a  previous  occasion  had 
well-nigh  proved  fatal.  Each  came 
in,  by  this  contrivance,  at  his  own 
door,  and  all  sat  at  an  octagonal 
table,  at  which,  of  course,  there  was 
no  chief  place,  or  head. 

Hear,  Land  o'  Cakes  and  brither  Scots, 
Frae  Maidenkirk  to  John  o'  Groat's, 
If  there  's  a  hole  in  a'  your  coats, 

I  rede  ye  tent  it: 
A  chiel  's  amang  you  takin'  notes, 

And,  faith,  he  '11  prent  it.        Burnt. 

O-gyg'i-a.  [Gr. 'O-yuvia.]  (Gr.if  Rom. 
Mijth.)  An  island  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean, or,  according  to  some,  in  the 
great  Western  Ocean ;  tiie  al)ode  of 
Calypso.  It  presented  such  a  scene 
of  sylvan  beauty  as  charmed  even 
Mercury,  one  of  the  dwellers  on 
Olympus.     See  Calypso. 

Old  Bags.  A  nickname  given  to  John 
Scott,  l.ord  Kldon  (1751-18^38),  lord 
chancellor  of  England  for  twentv  live 
years.  He  was  so  very  cautious  of 
delivering  a  hasty  judgment,  that  he 
always  expressed  his  doubts,  and  was 
accustomed  to  take  all  the  papers 
of  complicated  cases  home  with  him 
in  different  bags;  hence  the  name. 
According  to  another  account,  he  was 
so  called  from  the  large  and  richly 
embroidered  bag  in  whicli  the  great 
seal  of  England  is  carried  —  or  sup- 


posed to  be  carried  —  before  the  lord 
chancellor  when  he  proceeds  to  take 
his  seat  on  the  judicial  bench  or  on 
the  woolsack. 

You  found  them  all  In  {;ood  savor?  How 
does  OhI  /!<ii/s  look?  And  the  worthy  Doctor 
[Lord  SidniouthJ?  I  hope  years  sit  lightly  on 
that  lofty  fabric.  Soctes  Antbroi^ianae. 

Old  Bendy.  A  cant  name  for  the 
Devil. 

Old  Bo'g^.  [Probably  a  corruption 
of  Bofjn,  the  Slavonic  name  of  the 
Deity.]  A  nursery  ghost  or  demon, 
whose  name,  like  that  of  Lilith,  was 
formerly  used  to  frighten  children. 
[Written  also  Bogey.] 

This  man  .  .  .  has  a  friendly  heart  (al- 
though some  wiseacres  have  painted  him  as 
black  as  Jioijei/),  and  you  may  trust  what  he 
says.  Thackeray. 

Old'buck,  Jonathan.  A  whimsical 
virtuoso,  wdio  gives  name  to  Scott's 
novel  of  "  The  Anticpiary."  He  is 
devoted  to  the  study  and  accumu- 
lation of  old  coins  and  medals,  and 
indeed  every  kind  of  Roman  relics, 
and  is  sarcastic,  irritable,  and,  from 
early  disappointment  in  love,  a  misog- 
ynist, but  humorous,  kind-hearted, 
and  faithful  to  his  friends.  [Called 
also  Monkbdrns.^ 

4®=  "  The  character  of  Jonathan  Old- 
buck.  in  the  '  Antiquary,'  was  partly 
founded  on  an  old  friend  of  my  youth  .  .  . , 
but  I  thought  1  had  so  completely  dis- 
guised the  likeness,  that  it  could  not 
be  recognized  by  any  one  now  alive.  I 
was  mistaken.  .  .  .  The  reader  is  not 
to  .suppose,  however,  that  my  l.tte  i-e- 
spected  friend  resembled  Mr.  Oldhuck, 
either  in  his  pedigree,  or  the  history 
imputed  to  the  ideal  personage.  ...  An 
excellent  temper,  with  a  slight  degree  of 
subicid  huinor  ;  learning,  wit,  and  droll- 
ery, the  more  poignant  that  thev  were  a 
little  marked  by  the  peculiarities  of  an 
old  bachelor;  a  soundness  of  thought, 
rendered  more  forcible  by  an  occasional 
quaintness  of  expression,  —  were.  I  con- 
ceive, the  only  qualities  in  which  the 
creature  of  my  imatrination  resembled 
my  benevolent  and  excellent  old  friend." 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

How  much  good  might  we  have  done,  if  we 
had  had  the  looking-over  and  methodizing  of 
the  chaos  in  which  Mr.  Oldhurl-  found  him- 
self just  at  the  moment,  so  agonizing  to  the 
autlior,  when  he  knows  that  the  patience  of 
his  victim  is  oozinjr  awny,  and  fears  it  will  be 
quite  prone  before  he  can  lav  bis  hand  on  the 
charm  which  is  to  fix  him  a  hopeless  listener! 
Notes  ami  Queries. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


OLD 


266 


OLD 


Old  Bullion.  A  sobriquet  conferred 
on  ( 'dloncl  Thomas  I  Tart  Benton 
( 1782-1 858 ),  a  (listin^MiislK'd  Amer- 
ican statesman,  on  account  of  his  ad- 
vocacy of  a  gold  and  silver  currency 
as  the  true  remedy  for  the  financial 
embarrassments  in  which  the  United 
States  were  involved,  ai\er  the  expi- 
ration of  the  charter  of  the  national 
bank,  and  as  the  only  proper  medium 
for  government  disbursements  and 
receipts. 

Old  Clootie.     See  Auld  Clootie. 

Old  Colony.  A  name  popularly  given 
to  that  jxirtion  of  Massachusetts  in- 
cluded within  the  original  limits  of 
the  Plymouth  colony,  which  was 
formed  at  an  earlier  date  than  the 
colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay.  In 
1092,  the  two  colonies  were  united  in 
one  province,  bearing  the  name  of 
the  latter,  and,  at  the  formation  of 
the  Federal  Uni(»n,  became  the  State 
of  Massachusetts. 

Old  Country.  A  term  usually  applied, 
in  the  United  States,  to  the  British 
Isles ;  sometimes  restricted  to  Ireland. 

Old  Dessauer  (des-sdd'er).  A  so- 
briquet given  to  Leopold,  prince  of 
Anhalt- Uessau  (1(>70-1747),  distin- 
guished as  the  creator  of  the  Prussian 
army.     See  Mkntou. 

Old  Dominion.  A  popidar  name  for 
the  State  of  Virginia.  The  origin  of 
this  term  has  been  differently  ac- 
counted for  by  difterent  writers.  The 
following  explanation  is  the  most 
plausible  of  all,  and  is  probably  the 
true  one. 

i^=-  •'  Tn  CaptHin  .John  Smith's  '  His- 
tory of  VirginiH."  edition  of  1029,  there  is 
a  map  of  the  settleuieuts  of  Virginia, 
which,  at  that  time,  incliiJed  New  Eng- 
land, as  well  as  every  other  part  of  tlie 
Britisli  settlements  in  America,  lie  there 
calls  our  present  Virginia  '  Oultl  Virginia,' 

—  the  word  o'd  being  so  spelt  at  that  time, 

—  in  contradistinction  to  tlie  New  Eng- 
land colony,  which  is  called  '  New  Vir- 
ginia.' Here,  then,  we  have  the  word 
'ould.'  the  distinctive  word  of  tlie  title. 

Now,  we  know,  that,  from  the  settlement 
of  the  colony  to  the  Revolution,  every  act 
of  parlinment,  every  letter  of  the  king  to 
the  governor,  always  designated  Virginia 
as  the  '  Tnlony  and  Dominion  '  of  Vir- 
ginia.    Here  is  found  the  other  word ; 


and  the  change  in  common  talk  trom 
'  Ould  Virginia'  to  '  Old  Dominion  '  was 
easy,  imperceptible,  and  almost  inevita- 
ble.'' Historical  Mandzine,  iii.  319. 
"What  means  the  Ol/I  Doiiiiiiioit  f     Hath  she 

forgot  tile  day 
When  o'er  her  conquered  valleys  swept  the 

Briton '.s  steel  array?  Whittier, 

Old  Dou'ro  (U).  A  sobriquet  conferred 
upon  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  on 
account  of  his  passage  of  the  Douro, 
May  11,  18Uil,  by  which  he  surprised 
jNIarshal  Soult,  and  put  him  to  tlight. 

Old  Ebony.     See  Ebony. 

Old  Fox.  [Fr.  Lt  Vitux  Rennrcl.]  A 
nickname  given  to  3Iarshal  Soult 
(170U-1851 ),  l)y  the  soldiers  under  his 
command,  on  account  of  his  remarka- 
ble strategic  abilities  and  fertility  of 
resources. 

Old  Gentleman.  In  some  parts  of 
luigland,  a  familiar  name  of  the 
Devil. 

Old  Glory.  A  name  popularly  given, 
m  the  United  States,  to  the  national 
tiag, —  "the  star-spangled  banner." 

Old  Gobbo.     See  Gobbo,  Old. 

Old  Grimes.  The  subject  of  a  popidar 
ballad  by  Albert  G.  Greene  (b.  1802), 
an  American  poet.  TLe  name  seems 
to  have  originated  with  Crabbe.  It 
is  the  title  of  one  of  his  metrical 
tales. 

Old  Grog.  A  nicknaine  given  by  the 
sailors  in  the  British  navy  to  Admiral 
Edward  Vernon  (1684-1757),  on  ac- 
count of  his  wearing  a  grogram  cloak 
in  foul  weather.  They  afterward 
transferred  the  abbreviated  term  f/rotf 
to  a  mixture  of  rum,  gin,  or  othef 
spirituous  liquor,  with  water.  —  a 
kind  of  beverage  first  introduced  by 
the  admiral  on  board  ship. 

Old  Harry.  A  vulgar  name  for  the 
Devil.     [Called  also  Lord  flan-y.] 

S^=  It  has  been  suggested  (■' Notes  and 
Queries."  xii.  229)  that  this  appellation 
conies  from  the  Scandinavian  Hari  or 
H'  ria  (equivalent  to  the  German  Herr), 
names  of  Odin,  who  ctime  in  time  ( like  the 
other  deities  of  the  Northern  mythology) 
to  be  degraded  from  his  rank  of  a  god  to 
that  of  a  fiend  or  evil  spirit.  According 
to  Henley,  the  hirsute  honors  of  the  Satan 
of  till'  ancient  reliirions  stage  procured 
him  the  ninie  "•  Old  Hairy,"  corrupted 
into  "  Old  Harrv.'' 


•8"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  ExplanatiouBr 


OLD 


267 


OLD 


Old  Hickory-  A  sobriquet  conferred 
upon  (it'iieral  Aiuirew  Jack.^on,  in 
181'i,  by  the  soldiers  under  liis  com- 
mand. 

j^^  '•  The  name  of '  Old  Hickory  '  was 
not  an  inst'intaticous  hispinitioti,  but  a 
growth.  First  of  all,  tlit-  remark  was 
made  by  some  soldier,  wlio  was  struck 
with  his  coumiauder's  pedestrian  pow- 
ers, that  the  jjeiieral  was  "■  tough.'  Next 
it  was  observed  .  .  .  that  he  was  "  tough  as 
hickory.'  Then  he  was  called  "  Hickory.' 
Lastly,  the  affection.ate  adjective  '  old  ' 
was  prefixed,  and  the  general  thenceforth 
rejoiced  in  tiie  completed  nickname,  usu- 
ally the  first-won  honor  of  a  great  com- 
mander.'" Parton.  According  to  another 
account,  the  name  sprung  from  his  hav- 
ing, on  one  occasion,  set  his  men  an  ex- 
ample of  endurance  by  feeding  on  hick- 
ory-nuts, when  destitute  of  supplies. 

True,  surely ;  as  all  observation  and  survey 
of  mankind  from  China  to  Pern,  from  Nebu- 
chadnezzar to  Old  Hickory,  will  testify  ! 

(JarlyJe. 

Old  Humphrey.  A  pseudonym  of 
Geori:;e  ^Nlogridge  (d.  1854:),  of  Lon- 
don, autlior  of  numerous  religious 
books  and  essays,  intended  especially 
for  the  young,  which  have  enjoyed  an 
extensive  popularity. 

Old  Hunkers.  A  nickname  applied 
to  the  ultra-conservative  portion  of 
the  Democratic  party  in  the  United 
States,  and  especially  in  the  State  of 
New  York.  It  is  said  to  have  been 
intended  to  indicate  that  those  to 
Avhom  it  was  given  had  an  appetite 
for  a  large  ''  hunk  "  of  the  spoils. 

Old  Ironsides.  A  title  popularly  con- 
ferred upon  the  L'nited  States  frigate 
"Constitution,"  Avhich  was  launched 
at  Bost(ni,  Sept.  20,  1797,  and  is  still 
(1835)  in  the  service.  She  became 
greatly  celebrated  on  accotnit  of  the 
prominent  iiart  she  to(»k  in  the  bom- 
bardment of  Tripoli,  in  1804,  and  for 
the  gallantry  dis])layed  l)y  her  otlicers 
and  men  during  the  War  of  1812. 

4^^  "  In  the  course  of  two  years  and 
nine  months  [July,  1812,  to  March,  1815i, 
this  ship  had  been  in  three  actions,  had 
been  twice  critically  chased,  and  had  cap- 
tured five  vessels  of  war,  two  of  which 
■were  frigates,  and  a  third  frigate-built. 
In  all  her  service,  .  .  .  her  good  fortune 
was  remarkable.  She  never  was  dis- 
masted, never  got  ashore,  and  scarcely 
ever  sulfered  anv  of  the  usual  accidents 


of  the  sea.  Though  so  often  in  battle,  no 
very  serious  slaughter  ever  took  place  on 
board  her.  One  of  her  conunauders  was 
wounded,  and  tour  of  her  lieuti  nants  had 
been  killed,  two  on  her  own  decks,  and 
two  in  tile  •  Intrepid  ; "  but,  on  the  whole, 
her  entire  career  had  been  that  of  what  is 
usually  called  'a  lucky  ship.'  Her  for- 
tune, however,  may  perhaps  he  cxjilained 
in  the  simple  fact,  that  she  had  always 
been  well  commanded.  In  her  two  last 
cruises,  she  had  probably  possessed  as 
fine  a  crew  as  ever  manned  a  frigate. 
They  were  principally  from  New  Eng- 
land ;  and  it  has  ))een  s.iid  of  them  that 
they  were  almost  qualified  to  fight  the 
ship  without  her  officers." 

James  Fenlmore  Cooper. 

Old  La^y  of  Threadneedle  Street. 
A  cant  name  in  Loudon  tor  the  Bank 
of  England,  which  is  situated  in 
Threadnetdle  Street. 

Old  Man  Eloquent.  An  expre.ssion 
made  use  of  by  ^Milton,  in  his  tenth 
sonnet,  in  allusion  to  Isocrates,  and 
very  generally  applied,  in  AmericA, 
to  .lohn  Quincy  Adams  (17G7-1848), 
sixth  president  of  the  United  States. 

When  that  dishonest  victory 
At  Chasronea,  fatal  to  liberty, 
Killed  with  report  that  old  man  elo'jiient. 

Miltfm. 

Old  Man  of  the  Mountain,  [Arab. 
lSlieikli-fi/-.f(/j'i/.]  1.  An  Eastern  ti- 
tle tir.st  applied  to  the  Imaum  Has- 
san Ben  -  Sabbah-el -Homairi,  who 
founded  a  tormidable  dynasty  in 
Syria,  a.  d.  1090.  He  was  the  prince 
or  chief  of  a  sect  of  the  Mohamnu-dans, 
which  in  the  West  acquired  the  name 
of  Assassins.  His  residence  was  in 
the  moimtain  fa.stnesses  of  Syria. 
The  name  Avas  also  given  to  his  seven 
successors.  At  the  close  of  the  twelfth 
century,  the  Mongols  put  an  end  to 
the  dynasty. 

2.  A  name  popularly  given,  in  the 
United  States,  to  a  remarkable  nat- 
ural formation  on  Protile  jNlountain, 
one  of  the  mountains  of  the  I-raiu^onia 
range,  in  Ncav  Hampshire.  It  con- 
sists of  a  projecting  rock,  elevated 
about  1000  feet  above  the  plain,  and, 
vieAved  at  a  certain  angle,  bears  a 
wonderful  resemblance  to  the  human 
face. 

Old  Man  of  the  Sea.  In  the  "Ara- 
bian Nights'  Entertainments,"  a 
monster  encountered  bA'-  Sindbad  the 


aud  for  the  Remarks  and  Rulea  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


OLD 


268 


OLD 


Sailor,  in  his  fifth  vova;xe.  lie  man- 
-'^ged  to  t'astoii  liiinselt'upoii  the  slioul- 
ders  of'Siiidliad  so  lirinly  that  he  could 
not  be  dislodged  by  the  utmost  etlbrts 
of  his  uiilbrtuiiate  victim;  but,  after 
carrviii;^  him  about  tor  a  Ioiijj:  time, 
Siiidliad  at  last  succeeded  in  intoxi- 
catiuj;  him,  and  eti'ected  his  escape. 
See  SiNUisAU  the  Sailor. 

He  lias  powois  of  boring  beyond  ten  of  the 
dulli'st  of  all  nossible  doctors, —  stuck  like  a 
liiupct  to  a  rocK,  —  a  i)erfoct  double  uf  the  Old 
Man  ot'tlie  Sea,  wh<jni  I  take  to  have  been  the 
greatest  bore  on  record.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

It  is  quite  cruel  that  a  poet  cannot  wander 
through  his  regions  of  enchantment,  without 
having  a  critic  for  ever,  like  the  Olil  Man  of 
the  Sea,  upon  his  back.  T.  Moore. 

In  the  life  of  Friedrich  Wilhclm  there  is 
now  to  bo  discovered  a.s  little  of  human  inter- 
est or  pathos  as  could  well  be  imagined  of  any 
life  so  near  our  own  times.  He  is  a  horrible 
Old  Man  of  the  Sea  for  our  Sindbad  to  carry. 
Christ.  Examiner. 

Old  Mortality.  A  character  and  the 
title  of  a  novel  by  Sir  Walter  Scott. 
The  name  is  said  to  have  been  a 
sobriquet  popularly  conferred  upon 
one  Robert  Paterson,  the  traditions 
concerning  whom  are  related  in  the 
story,  and  who  is  described  as  a  re- 
ligious itinerant  of  the  latter  half  of 
the  last  century,  frequenting  country 
church-yards,  and  the  graves  of  the 
Covenanters,  in  the  south  of  Scot- 
land, and  whose  occupation  consisted 
in  clearing  tlie  moss  from  the  gray 
tombstones,  renewing  with  his  chisel 
the  half-defaced  inscriptions,  and  re- 
pairing the  emblems  of  death  with 
which  the  monuments  Avere  adorned. 

Even  Capelgiie  —  whose  business  is  to  be- 
little all  that  is  truly  greit,  and  especially  to 
efface  those  names  wliich  are  associated  with 
human  liberty,  while,  like  another  Old  Mor- 
tah't;/,  he  furi»ishes  the  tombstones  of  royal 
mistresses —  is  yet  constrained  to  bear  witness 
to  the  ijopularity  and  influence  which  Frank- 
lin achieved.  diaries  Sumner. 

Old  Nick.  A  vulgar  and  ancient 
name  for  the  Devil,  derived  from  that 
of  the  Neck,  or  Nikr,  a  dangerous 
Avater-demon  of  the  Scandinavian 
popular  mythology.  "  The  British 
sailor,"  says  Scott,  "  who  fears  noth- 
ing else,  confesses  his  terrors  for  this 
terrible  being,  and  believes  him  the 
autlior  of  almost  all  the  various 
calamities  to  which  the  precarious 
life  of  a  seaman  is  so  continually 
exposed."  Butler,  the  author  of 
"  Hudibras,"  erroneously  derives  the 


term  from  the  name  of  Nicolo  Mac- 
chiavelli. 

Old  Noll.    An  epithet  contemptuously 

applied    to  Oliver   Cromwell  by   his 

contemporaries. 

May,  (Md  Soil,  whose  bones  were  dug  up 
and  iiung  in  chains  here  at  home,  has  not  he, 
too  got  to  be  a  very  respectable  grim  bronze- 
ligure,  of  whom  i:.ugland  seems  proud  rather 
than  otherwise.'  Carlyle. 

Old  North  State.     A  popular  desig- 
nation of  the  State  of  Xorth  Carolina. 
Old  One.     See  Alld  A>'e. 

Old  Public  Functionary.  A  sobri- 
quet sometimes  given  to  James  Bu' 
chanan,  fifteenth  president  of  the 
United  States.  He  tirst  applied  the 
expression  to  himself,  in  his  Annual 
Mes.sage  to  congress  in  the  year 
1859.  Sometimes  humorously  ab- 
breviated O.  P.  F. 

jKg="  '*This  advice  proceeds  from  the 
heart  of  an  old  public  functionary,  whose 
service  commenced  in  the  last  genera- 
tion, anions  the  wise  and  con.<5ervative 
statesmen  of  that  day,  now  nearly  all 
passed  away,  and  whose  first  and  dearest 
earthly  wish  is  to  leave  his  country  tran- 
quil, prosperous,  united,  and  powerful." 
Jami-s  Buc/ianan. 

Old  Put.  A  nickname  given,  by  the 
soldiers  under  his  command,  to  Israel 
Putnam  (1718-1790),  a  major-general 
in  the  war  of  the  American  Revolu- 
tion. 

Old  Kowley.  A  nickname  given  to 
Charles  II.,  who  was  famous  for  his 
amours.  Old  Rowley  was  a  famous 
stalli(jn  in  his  majesty's  stud. 

^Moving  hack  towirds  her  couch,  [she] 
asked,  '•  Who  is  there?"  "O/'/  /io(t7<// him- 
self, mad  im,"  said  the  king,  entering  the 
apartment  with  his  usual  air  of  easy  com- 
posure. Sir  U'.  Scott. 

Old  Scratch.  A  jocular  and  ancient 
term  for  the  Devil,  supposed  to  be  a 
corruption  of  S/cr<i(/i,  Scln-a/^  or 
Sihrdtz.!  a  demon  of  the  old  North- 
ern mythology. 

Old  Stars.  A  sobriquet  given  by  the 
men  of  his  command  to  General 
Ormsby  McKnight  Mitchel  (1810- 
18G2),  of  the  American  army,  on  ac- 
count of  his  distinguished  reputation 
and  attainments  as  an  astronomer. 

Oldstvle,  Jonathan.  A  n<mi  de  plume 
of  Washington  Irving,  luider  which 


BS~  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  I'ronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanyiug  Explauutious, 


OLD 


269 


OPH 


he  contributed,  in  1802,  to  the 
"  iMurniny  Chronicle,"  a  democratic 
journal  oi  xsew  York  city. 

Old  Wagon.  A  sobriquet  often  given, 
in  America,  to  the  irigate  "  Lnited 
kjtate?^,"  which  was  launched  at  Phil- 
adelplua  in  iidl,  and  was  afterward 
rebuilt  on  the  original  model.  8he 
got  her  nieknanie,  previously  to  the 
War  of  18i"2,  from  her  dull  sailing 
qualities,  wliicii  were  subsequently 
very  much  improved. 

Old  World.  A  name  popularly  given 
to  the  Eastern  Hemisphere  after  the 
discovery  of  America  in  1-4'J2. 

Ol'i-faunt,  Nig'el.  The  hero  of  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  novel,  "  The  l''ortunes 
of  Nigel."  [Otherwise  called  Lord 
(jlencarL,cli.'\ 

Olimpia  (o-lem'pe-a).  The  lady-love 
and  wife  of  Bireno,  in  Ariosto's 
"Orlando  Furiot-o;"  represented  as 
equally  uncomproiaising  in  her  love 
and  in  her  hate. 

Olindo  (o-len'do).  The  hero  of  a 
celel)rated  episode  h-  Tasso's  epic 
poem,  "  tTerusalem  i)eliv  3red."     See 

SOFKONIA. 

Oliver.  \\i.Olivieri^  Olu'iero,  Ulivie^o, 
Ulivieri.~\  1.  One  ot  the  Twelve 
Peers  of  Charlemagne.  See  Row- 
land.    [Written  also  Olivier.] 

2.  A  son  of  Sir  Rowland  de  Bois, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  As  You  Like  It." 

O-liv'i-^.  A  rich  countess,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Twelfth  Night." 

Olla-pod,  Cornet.  A  whimsical 
apothecary,  in  Colman's  "  Poor  Gen- 
tleman," who  is  also  a  cornet  in  tha 
Association  Corps  of  Cavalry.  He 
is  noted  for  "his  jumble  of  physic 
and  shooting." 

O-lym'pus.  [Gr.  'OAu/xtto?.]  A  moun- 
tain about  0000  feet  high,  between 
Macedonia  and  Thessaly,  on  the  sum- 
mit of  which  Vulcan  was  fabled  to 
have  built  a  walled  town  as  a  resi- 
dence for  Jupiter  and  the  other  heav- 
enly gods,  and  a  convenient  place 
of  assembly  for  the  gods  Avho  dwelt 
on  the  earth  and  in  the  sea. 

Omnibus  Bill.  A  name  popularly 
given,  in  America,  to  a  compromise 


act  originally  inti-oduccd  in  the  .sen- 
ate of  tlie  Lnited  States  In'  Henry 
Clay,  on  the  2Jth  of  .lanuary,  J850, 
from  the  circumstance  that  several 
nieasuies,  entirely  distinct  in  their 
object,  were  embodied  ni  one  bill. 
The  most  important  stipulations  of 
this  act  were  those  providing  lor  the 
admission  ofCalilornia  intotiie  Union 
as  a  State  witli  its  anti-slavery  con- 
stitution, tor  the  admission  of  Utah 
and  New  Mexico  as  Territories  with 
no  mention  of  slavery,  for  the  aboli- 
tion of  the  slave-trade  in  the  District 
of  Columbia,  and  tor  the  more  certain 
lendition  of  fugitive  slaves.  The  bill 
did  not  become  a  law  in  the  form  in 
which  it  Avas  lirst  presented,  but  the 
object  aimed  at  by  Mr.  Clay  was  ac- 
complished by  the  passage  ot' separate 
acts. 
Om'pha-le.  [Gr.  'Ofji<f)d\rj.]  [Gr.  <f 
Rom.  Mi/fli.)  A  queen  of  Lydia  to 
Avliom  Hercules  was  sf)ld  for  three 
years  for  nnn-dering  Iphitus.  The 
hero  fell  in  love  with  her,  and  for  a 
time  led  an  effeminate  life  in  her  so- 
ciety, si)inning  wool,  and  wearing 
the  garments  of  a  Avornan,  while  Om- 
phale  donned  his  lion's  skin. 

Only,  The.  [Ger.  Der  Kinzige.']  A 
title  affectionately  api)lied  b}^  the 
Germans  to  their  admired  poet  and 
romancist,  Jean  Paul  Friedrich  Rich- 
ter  (1703- 1 82.5),  on  account  of  the 
unique  character  of  his  writings  and 
genius. 

ifS"  "  Not  without  reason  have  his 
panegyrists  named  him  .lean  Paul  der 
Einzige,  '  Jean  l^aul  the  Onfv  :  '  in  one 
sense  or  the  other,  either  as  i)rai-e  or 
ce'sure,  his  critics  also  must  adojjt  t  lis 
epithet ;  for  surelv,  in  the  wliole  circle  of 
literature  we  look  in  vain  for  his  par- 
allel." Carhjle. 


Only  Aretino,  The. 
The  Only. 


See  AiJETiNO, 


O-phe'li-a  (or  o-feeFya).  The  heroine 
of  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Ham- 
let." She  is  beloved  by  Hamlet,  who, 
during  his  real  or  assumed  madness, 
treats  her  Avith  undeserved  and  angry 
A'iolence,  and  Avho  afterAvard,  in  a  lit 
of  inconsiderate  rashness,  kills  her 
father,  the  old  Polonius,  by  mistake. 
Tiie  terrible  shock  given  to  her  mind 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


OPR 


270 


OKE 


by  these  events  completely  shatters 
her  intellect,  and  slic  comes  to  her 
death  by  accidental  drowning. 

O.  P.  Kiot.  L'l'hat  is,  Old  Prices  Kiot.] 
Theconnnon  designation  ot'a  popular 
disturbance  whicn  took  place  at  the 
opening  of  the  new  Covent-Garden 
1  heater  in  London,  on  the  17th  of 
September,  180J,and  which  grew  out 
of  an  advance  in  tiie  rates  of  admis- 
sion. The  play  was  "  Macbeth,"  and, 
from  the  rising  of  the  curtain  until 
its  fall,  not  a  single  word  from  the 
stage  could  be  heard  in  any  part  of 
the  house.  The  concurrence  of  the 
whole  audience  —  many  of  them  being 
persons  well  known  and  of  some  con- 
sideration in  the  city  —  gave  a  furi- 
ous and  determined  party  in  the  pit 
courage  to  proceed,  and  great  damage 
■was  done  in  pit,  boxes,  and  galleries. 
For  many  nights  in  succession,  the 
audience,  too  strong  to  be  controlled, 
continued  their  demand,  and  renewed 
their  depredations,  while  the  mana- 
gers seemed,  on  their  part,  resolved 
not  to  give  way;  but  in  the  end  they 
3'ielded.  This  contest,  which  had 
continued  for  nearly  three  months, 
Avas  terminated  on  the  10th  of  De- 
cember. 

Ops.  (  C,r.  (/•  Rmn.  M;/fh.)  A  goddess 
of  plenty,  fertility,  and  power,  the 
wife  of  Saturn,  and  the  patroness  of 
husbandrv ;  identical  with  Cybele^  or 
Rhea. 

Optic,  Oliver.  A  pseudonym  adopted 
by  William  T.  Adams,  an  American 
writer  of  juvenile  works. 

Oracle,  Sir.  A  name  which  occurs  in 
Shakespeare's  ''  Merchant  of  Venice" 
(a.  i.,  sc.  1),  in  the  expression,  — 

"  I  nm  Sir  Oracle, 
And,  when  I  ope  my  lips,  let  no  dog  bark." 

In  the  first  folio,  the  Avords  are,  "  I 
am,  sir,  an  Oracle,"  which  is  proba- 
bly the  true  reading. 

"Well.   Sir   Oracle,  yon  that  have    laid  so 
many  .schemes  to  supplant  this  she-wolf  of 
Gaul,  where  arc  all  your  contrivances  now? 
Sir  \V.  Scott. 

Mouthy  gentlemen  are  all  5iV  Oracles;  and 
where  they  are,  no  dogs  must  bark  nor  violets 
be  cried.  Sala. 

Oracle   of  the  Holy  Bottle.     See 

IIoLV  BoTTLi:,  (^IJ.VrLK  (>K  TIIE. 


Orange-Peel.  A  nickname  given  by 
the  Iri.-^h  to  Sir  Itobert  Peel  (1788- 
1800),  at  the  time  of  his  holding  the 
olhce  of  Chief  Secretary  lor  Ireland 
(J812-18i8),  on  account  of  the  strong 
anti-taiholic  spirit  which  he  dis- 
played, and  wliicli  was  characteristic 
of  the  Protestant  association,  called 

—  after  William  111.,  Prince  of  (Jrange 

—  the  "Orange  Society."  In  182!), 
however,  —  his  opinions  on  this  sub- 
ject having,  in  the  mean  time,  under- 
gone a  gn  at  change,  —  he  actually 
introduced  into  the  house  of  commons 
a  "lielief  Pill."  or  "Emancipation 
Act"  (10  (ieo.  lY.  c.  7),  granting 
certain  political  privileges  to  the  Ko- 
nian  ("alholies. 

Orator  Hen'ley.  The  name  by  which 
John  Henley  (16'J2-1750), 'a  cele- 
brated English  lecturer,  is  generally 
known  and  referred  to.  He  delivered 
lectures  or  orations  on  theology,  poli- 
tics, fashions,  and  matters  in  gener- 
al, during  a  period  of  nearly  thirty 
years,  and  was  one  of  the  celebrities 
of  London.  Pope  calls  him  the 
"  zany  of  his  age;  "  and  Hogarth  has 
introduced  him  into  many  of  his  hu- 
morous delineations. 

Or'cus.  {Rom.  Myth.)  The  lower 
Avorld,  the  abode  of  the  dead;  also, 
the  god  of  the  lower  world,  Pluto; 
sometimes  used  by  the  poets  as  a 
name  of  Death. 

Orderloy,  John.  See  Audley,  John. 

Ordinance  of  1787.  {Amer.  Hist.) 
An  act  of  congress  for  the  govern- 
ment of  "  the  territory  north-west  of 
the  Ohio  Kiver."  Article  6  was  as 
follows:  "  There  shall  be  neither 
f-lavery  nor  involuntaiy  servitude  in 
the  said  territory,  otherwise  than  as 
in  the  punishment  of  crimes  whereof 
the  party  shall  have  been  duly  con- 
victed: Provide  1  always,  that,  any 
person  escaping  into  the  same,  tiom 
whom  labor  or  service  is  lawfully 
claimed  in  any  one  of  the  original 
States,  such  fugitive  may  be  lawful- 
ly reclaimed,  and  conveyed  to  the 
person  claiming  his  or  her  labor  or 
service  as  aforesaid  " 

0're-ad§  (D).  [Lat.  Oreades.Gr.'Opn- 
<i6t?.]     ((Jr.  if  Jiom.  Mi/t/i.)    >iymph9 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  ExplanatioD^ 


ORE 


271 


ORL 


of  the  mountains,  and  attendants  on 
Diana. 

O'Keil'ly,  Private  Miles,  A  pseu- 
donym ut'  Colonel  Charles  C  Hal- 
pine,  under  which  he  has  published 
a  volume  of  song's  and  speeches,  ])r(»- 
lessedly  the  j)roducti()n  ut'  an  Irish 
private  in  the  turty-seventh  regiment 
of  New  York  volunteers. 

O-res'tes.  [Gr.  'Opea-Tr;?.]  ( Gt\  tf 
Rom.  .]fj/fli. )  The  son  of  Agamemnon 
and  Clviemnestra,  and  I  he  constant 
friend  of  1*\  lades.  Having  slain  his 
mother  and  her  ]>aramour  yEgisthus, 
because  they  had  murdered  his  father, 
he  became  mad,  and  fled  from  land 
to  land,  vainly  endeavoring  to  avoid 
the  Furies,  who  pursued  and  tor- 
mented him.  His  sufferings  were 
a  favorite  subject  for  representation 
■with  the  tragic  poets  of  Greece.  See 
Nemesis. 

Orgoglio  (or-gul'yo).  [It.,  pride,  arro- 
gance.] The  name  of  a  giant,  in 
Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen,"  wlio  de- 
feats the  Red-cross  Knight  in  single 
combat,  and  imprisons  him  in  a  dun- 
geon of  his  castle. 

Orgon  {oir'go^',  G2).  A  brother-in-law 
and  a  dupe  of  Tartutfe,  in  Moliere's 
comed}'  of  the  latter  name. 

J^^  "  Nothing  can  be  more  happily 
coaceived  than  tiie  creJulit  ,■  of  the  hon- 
est Orgon  and  his  more  doting  mother  ; 
it  is  that  which  we  sometimes  witness, 
incurable  except  by  the  evidence  of  the 
senses,  and  tightiug  every  inch  of  ground 
against  that."'  Hnllam. 

O-'ri-an'a  (9).  1.  In  the  romance  of 
"  .Amadis  de  Gaul,''  a  daughter  of 
Lisuarte,  an  imaginary  king  of  ICng- 
land.  She  is  beloved  by  Amadis,  and 
is  represented  as  the  fairest,  gentler.t, 
and  most  affable,  courteous,  and  faith- 
ful woman  in  the  world. 

For  thou  htist  sung  how  he  of  Gaul, 
That  Amiidls  ^o  f  uiud  in  hall, 
For  Oriana  foiled  in  l':grlit 
The  necromancer's  felon  might. 

.S(V  IT'.  Scott. 

2.  The  name  was  also  given,  in 
flattery,  to  (Jueen  Elizabeth,  in  a  se'^ 
of  madrigals  published  in  1301,  to 
celebrate  her  beauty  and  chastity  at 
sixty-eight. 

3.  Ben  Jonson  applied  the  name 


to  Anne,  queen  of  James   I.,    quasi 
Oriciis  Anuii. 

Oriande  (()'re-6»d',  fi2).  A  fairy  cel- 
ebrated ill  the  Irench  romances  of 
chivalry. 

O-rin'da,  The  Matchless,  or  The 
Incompara'Dle.  A  poetical  name 
given  to  Mrs.  Katharine  I'hillips 
(16ol-10G4),  a  distinguislied  jtoetess 
of  the  period  of  the  Restoration, 
higiily  popular  among  her  contem- 
porai'ies. 

It  never  did  to  pages  wove 

For  gay  romaiint  belong: 
It  never  dedicate  did  move, 
As  Sacharissi,  unto  love, — 

Orinda,  unto  son^. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Browning. 

O-ri'on.  [Gr.  'Q.pii^v.']  (  Gr.  ()'•  Rom. 
Mi/li.)  A  mighty  giant  and  hunt- 
er, famous  for  his  beauty.  He  Avas 
blinded  by  Ginopion  for  ravishing 
Merope,  and  expelled  from  Chios; 
but,  by  following  the  sound  of  a 
Cyclops'  hanuner,  he  reached  Lem- 
nos,  where  he  found  Vulcan,  who 
gave  him  Cedalion  as  a  guide  to  the 
abode  of  the  sun.  Proceeding  to  the 
east,  —  as  he  had  been  commanded 
to  do  by  an  oracle,  —  and  exposing 
his  eyeballs  to  the  rays  of  the  ris- 
ing sun,  he  recovered  his  lost  sight. 
Orion  was  slain  by  Diana,  or,  as 
some  say,  by  Jupiter,  and  placed 
among  the  stars,  where  he  forms  the 
most  splendid  of  all  the  constella- 
tions, appearing  as  a  giant  wearing  a 
lion's  skin  and  a  girdle,  and  wielding 
a  club.     See  GLnopion. 

Down  foil  the  red  skin  of  the  lion 
Into  the  river  at  lus  feet; 
Ills  miglity  club  no  longer  beat 
The  foichcad  of  the  Bull;  but  he 
Reeled  as  of  yore  beside  the  sea 

When,  blinded  by  Qilnopion, 
He  sought  the  blacksmith  at  his  forge, 
And,  climbing  up  the  narrow  gorge, 

Fixed  Ins  blank  eyes  u|)on  the  sun. 
Longfellow,  The'Occultation  of  Orion. 

5r/i-thy'i-a  (2:)).  [Gr.  'Opec6)ui.T.] 
{'Jr.  if  Rnin.  Mjidi.)  A  daughter  of 
Ereclitheus,  beloved  by  Boreas,  who 
carried  her  off  as  Aie  was  wandering 
near  the  river  Ilissus.      See  Boreas. 

Or-lan'do.   [Otherwise  called  Roland.] 

1.  The  name  of  a  so-called  nephew 

of  Charlenuigne,  and  the  hero  of  the 

romantic  tales  and  poems  founded  on 

the  adventures  of  Charlemagne  and 


ind  for  tha  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ORL 


272 


ORP 


Lis  paladins,  as  Pulci's  "Morj^ante 
Ma^ji'loiv,"  Bujardo's  "Orlando  In- 
iianiorato,"  and  Ariostu's  •*  Orlando 
l"uno>o."  lie  is  the  model  of  a  true 
knij^'ht,  —  single-  minded,  genennis, 
compassionate,  and  valiant.  His 
deatli  is  courageous  and  pious:  he 
thinks  of  the  grief  of  his  wit'e  Alda- 
bella,  and  the  mourning  of  Charle- 
magne, and  after  recommending  them 
to  God,  lie  embraces  his  liimuus  sword 
Durandal,  pressing  it  to  his  heart, 
and,  comforted  by  an  angel,  lixes  his 
eyes  on  heaven  and  expires.  .Many 
■wonderful  stories  are  told  of  his  mag- 
ical honi,  called  Olivant,  which  he 
Avon  from  a  giant  named  Jatmund, 
or  Jasmandus,  and  which  was  origi- 
nally the  property  of  Alexander  the 
Great.  It  was  of  ivory,  of  immense 
size,  —  bigger  than  a  massy  beam, 
Cervantes  says, — and  endowed  with 
such  marvelous  power  that  it  might  be 
heard  to  a  distance  of  twenty  miles. 
See  Mahsiglio,  Roland,  and  Du- 
randal. 

jft3='  Bqjardo  took  for  his  subject  the 
fabulous  wars  of  Charlemagne  against 
the  Saracens,  the  theme  of  many  an  old 
legend  and  romance  :  but  he  placed  the 
scene  in  France,  and  under  the  walls  of 
Paris,  which"  he  represents  as  besieged 
by  two  hosts  of  infidels,  one  under  t  e 
command  of  AgramUnte,  emperor  of  Af- 
rica, and  the  other  led  by  Gradasso,  king 
of  Sericana.  He  adopted  Orlando  —  the 
Roland  of  the  French  romances  —  for  his 
hero  ;  but,  while  others  had  represented 
him  as  the  champion  of  Chri-tendom, 
passionless  and  above  frailty.  Bojardo 
makes  him  fall  in  love  with  Angelica, a 
fascinating  coquette,  who  had  come  aft 
the  way  from  farthest  Asia  to  sow  dissen- 
sion among  the  Christians.  Ariosto  took 
up  the  subject  as  left  to  him  by  Bojardo, 
and  making  Angelica  fall  in  love  herself 
with  Medoro.  an  obscure  youthful  squire, 
he  represents  Orlando  as  driven  mad  by 
jealousy  and  indignation  ;  he  continues 
in  this  stiite  during  the  greater  part  of 
the  poem,  committing  a  thousand  ab- 
surdities, until  he  is  restored  to  reason 
by  Astolfo,  who  brings  back  his  wits  in 
a  phial  from  the  moon. 

Like  that  mirror  of  knightly  virtue,  the  re- 
nowned paladhi  Orlando,  he  was  more  anx- 
ious to  (Id  trroat  octions  than  to  talk  of  them 
after  thi-y  were  done.  IF.  Irving. 

The  clangor  of  his  trumpet,  like  that  of  the 
ivory  horn  of  the  renowiicd  paladin  Orlando, 
when  expiring  on  the  glorious  field  of  Ron- 


ceBvalles,  rang  far  and  wide  through  tht 
Country,  alarming  the  neighbors  round,  wlio 
liurrieu  in  umazeiueiit  to  the  i<|>ot. 

W.  Irving. 

2.  A  .son  of  Sir  Rowland  de  Bois, 

in  .Shake>i)eare's  comedy  of  "  As 
You  Like  It." 

Or'miizd,  or  dr'o-mas'des.  [Old 
Vai;  (ihuiv-iiiazddu,  tha  spiritual  being 
who  is  the  creator  of  all  things.] 
{Ptr.  Mytli.)  The  name  of  the  su- 
preme deity  of  the  ancient  Persians, 
and  of  their  descendants,  the  Parsees 
and  Guebers.  He  is  an  embodiment 
of  the  principle  of  good,  and  was 
created  by  the  will  of  the  great  eternal 
spirit,  Zervan-Akharana,  siinidtane- 
ously  with  Ahriman,  the  principle  of 
evil,  with  whom  he  is  in  perpetual 
conflict.  Ornmzd  is  the  creator  of 
the  earth,  sun,  moon,  and  stars,  to 
each  of  which  he  originally  assigned 
its  proper  place,  and  whose  various 
movements  he  continues  to  regulate. 

4Q="  According  to  the  Persian  myths, 
the  world  —  which  is  to  last  12,000  jears, 
during  which  the  war  between  the  good 
and  the  evil  principle  is  to  go  on  increasing 
—  is  at  length  to  be  consumed,  the  evil 
principle  exterminated,  and  a  new  world 
created  in  its  room,  over  which  Orniuzd 
is  to  reign  as  the  supreme  and  sole  mon- 
arch. 

It  seemed  as  if  those  two  [Pitt  and  Fox! 
were  the  Ormuzd  and  Ahriman  of  political 
nature.  Carlyle. 

6r'o-on-da'tes.  A  prominent  char- 
acter in  La  Calprenede"s  romance, 
"Cassandra."  He  is  the  only  son  of 
a  great  king  of  Scythia,  and  falls  in 
love  with  the  fair  Statira,  widow  of 
Alexander  the  Great,  and  daughter 
of  Darius.  After  many  adventures, 
full  of  difficulty  and  danger,  he  wins 
her  hand. 

I  looked  upon  myself  as  a  princess  in  some 
region  of  romance,  who,  bting  delivered  from 
the  power  of  a  brutiil  giant  or  satyr  by  a 
generous  Oroondates.wa^  bound  in  gratitude. 
OS  well  as  led  by  inclination,  to  jield  up  my 
affection  to  him  witliout  reser^'e.  '      Smollett. 

It  was  the  love  of  Anindis  and  Oriana,  of 
Oroondati-.'i  and  Statini:  that  love  which  re- 
quired a  sacrifice  f>f  every  wish,  hope,  and 
feeling  unconnected  with  itself.    Sir  )>".  Scott. 

A  creature  so  well  educated,  said  the  Duke, 
with  tlie  sense  she  is  s'lid  to  possess,  would, 
rustic  ns  she  is,  laugh  at  the  assumed  rants  of 


Oroonduteji. 


Sir  W.  Scott. 


Or'pheus.      [Gr.    'Op<^ei;?.]      ( Gi:    (f 
Rom.   Myth.)     A  famous  Argonaut, 


For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


ORP 


273 


OSI 


irhose  skill  in  music  was  so  wonder- 
ful tliat  lie  could  nialie  even  trees  and 
rocks  lollow  liiui.  Irle  was  the  hus- 
band of  Euiydice  •,  atter  lier  death,  he 
went  to  llie  lower  world  to  recover 
her,  and  so  charmed  I'lato  and  I'roscr- 
pine  with  the  music  ot  his  lyre  that 
tliey  consented  to  let  her  ^o,  provided 
he  lorlxire  to  look  behind  i)ini  until 
he  hud  gained  tlie  upper  regions;  but 
he  lorgot  iiis  promise,  and  lookeil 
back  to  ^ee  ir  Eurydice  was  loJlowing, 
when  she  vanisiied  Irom  his  sight  in- 
stantly and  lor  ever. 

But  oh,  sad  virgin,  tliat  tlij'  power 
Might  .  .  .  hid  tlie  soul  of  0/7j//ei(s  sing 
Such  notes  us,  warbled  to  the  string, 
Drew  iron  tears  down  Pluto's  check, 
And  niude  hell  grant  what  love  did  seek. 

21iUon. 

Or'phetis  of  Highwayraen.  A  ti- 
tle popularly  given  to  the  poet  Gay 
(1688-1732)' on  account  of  his  "  Beg- 
gar's Opera,"  a  famous  play,  which, 
according  to  Sir  John  Fielding,  was 
never  represented  "  without  creating 
an  additional  number  of  thieves." 

Or-si'no.  Duke  of  Illyria,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Twelfth  Night." 

Or'son  (or'sn).  [Fr.  ourson,  a  little 
bear,  ours,  a  bear,  from  Lat.  ursus. 
It.  orso.]  One  of  the  heroes  in  the 
old  romance  of  "  Valentine  and  Or- 
son; "  a  twin,  who,  being  adopted  by 
a  bear,  grew  up  with  bearish  quali- 
ties.    See  Valentine. 

Among  the  dapper  royal  gentlemen  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  what  was  to  be  done  with 
such  an  Orson  of  a  king  [as  Frederick  William 
of  Prussia]?  Carhjlc. 

A  large  class  of  her  fellow- oountrvmcn, 
■who,  in  their  every  word,  avow  themselves  to 
be  as  senseless  to  the  hij^h  principles  on  which 
America  sprang,  a  nation,  into  life,  as  any 
Orson  in  her  legislati\-e  halls.  Dickens. 

Orville,  Lord.  The  hero  of  Miss 
Burney's  novel  of  "Evelina,"  and 
the  amiable  and  devoted  lover  of  that 
young  lady,  whom  he  tinally  marries. 

Os'bal-dis'tone,  Eash'leigh  (-li). 
See  RASHLEKiir. 

O'Shan'ter,  Tarn.  The  title  of  a  poem 
by  Burns,  and  the  name  of  its  hero, 
a  farmer,  who,  riding  home  very  late 
and  very  drunk  from  Ayr,  in  a  stormy 
night,  had  to  pass  by  the  kirk  of 
Alloway,  a  place  reputed  to  be  a 
favorite  haunt  of  the  Devil  and  liis 


friends  and  emissaries.  On  approach- 
ing the  kirU,  he  j)erceived  a  light 
gleaming  tiirough  the  windows;  but 
having  got  courageously  drunk,  he 
ventured  on  till  lie  coidd  look  into 
the  edilice,  when  he  saw  a  dance  of 
witches  merrily  tooting  it  round  their 
master,  who  was  j)layiiig  on  the  bag- 
pijjC  to  them.  The  dance  grew  so 
furious  that  they  all  stripped  them- 
selves of  their  upper  garments,  and 
kept  at  it  ill  their  shifts.  One  "  win- 
some wench  "  haj)pening  unluckily 
to  have  a  shift  which  was  considera- 
bly too  short  to  answer  all  the  j)ur- 
poses  of  that  uselul  article  of  dress, 
Tam  was  so  tickled  that  he  involun- 
tarily roared  out,  "  Weeldone,  Cutty- 
sark,"  [Well  done,  Short  -  smock] ; 
whereupon  in  an  instant  all  was  dark, 
and  Tam,  recollecting  himself,  turned 
and  spurred  his  "'gray  mare.  IM eg," 
to  the  top  of  her  speed,  chased  by  the 
whole  fiemlish  crew.  It  is  a  current 
belief  that  witches,  or  any  evil  spirits, 
have  no  power  to  iolloAv  a  poor  wight 
any  further  than  the  middle  of  the 
next  running  stream,  fortunately 
for  Tam,  the  river  Toon  was  near; 
for,  notwithstanding  the  s- peed  of  his 
mare,  by  the  time  he  had  gained  the 
middle  of  the  arch  of  the  bridge, 
and  consecjuently  the  middle  of  the 
stream,  the  pursuing  vengeful  hags 
Avere  so  close  at  his  heels  that  one 
of  them,  "  Cutty -sark,"  actually 
sprang  to  seize  him;  but  it  was  too 
late,  —  nothing  was  on  her  side  of 
the  stream  but  the  mare's  tail,  which 
immediately  gave  way  at  her  inter- 
nal gripe,  as  if  blasted  by  a  stroke 
of  lightning;  but  the  farmer  was  be- 
yond her  reach. 

The  numberand  nature  of  the  ''mosses  and 
waters"  which  he  had  to  cross  in  his  pere- 
grination was  fully  sufficient  to  .  .  .  render 
his  journey  as  toilsome  and  danj^erous  as 
Ta7Tt  O  Shanier's  celehmted  retreat  from  Ayr. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

0-si'ris(9).  [Gr. 'Oatpi?.]  (Myih.)  A 
great  Egyptian  divinity,  the  god  of 
the  sun,  and  the  source  of  life  and 
fruitfulness ;  regarded  also  as  the  god 
of  the  Nile.  He  was  worshiped  under 
the  i'orm  of  an  ox. 

j8®=-  Tn   the  beginning.  Osiris  reigned 
over  Egypt,  aud  was  greatly  beloTed  ;  but 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules;  to  which  the  numbers  atter  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 
18 


OSR 


274 


OTX 


his  envious "brnthor  Typlmn  formed  a  con- 
«piriu;>  to  j^ct  ril  ni'  liiiii.  Mikiu^  .i  liaiid- 
fiouie  chest  of  tli«  exact  diuieutiioii.s  «f 
Osiris,  lie  proiiuceii  it  .it  a  banquet  at 
which  Osiris  was  (•re>ei.i.  ami  iiroiiii-^yl 
to  give  it  to  wlioia.soever  it  wouli  tit.  All 
of  ttic  conspir  itors  in  turn  lay  down  aud 
tried  it,  hut  it  suited  none  of  them.  At 
last  O.siris  j?ot  into  it.  when  T\  phon 
closed  the  lid.  aud  threvi'  the  chest  into 
the  Nile.  It  tlo.ited  down  the  river,  and 
through  the  I'auMiiji-  braut^h  into  the 
Jlediterraneau.  The  loss  ot  the  god  was 
soon  discovered,  and  his  wife  l.-^is  iuime- 
diately  began  to  search  for  tae  body.  At 
length  she  found  it  on  the  coast  ot  IMioe- 
nicia.  and  took  it  back  to  Kgvpt.  where 
she  depo-ited  it  in  an  unfrequented  spot : 
but  L'yphou  discovered  it,  and  cut  it  into 
fourteen  pieces,  distributing  them  among 
as  many  nomes,  or  districts.  Isis  wa^j 
forced  to  make  another  search,  and  suc- 
ceeded in  finding  thirteen  of  the  pieces, 
but  the  reuiainiig  one  had  been  eaten  by 
the  fishes  of  toe  Nile,  and  had  to  be  re- 
placed by  one  of  wood.  Temples  were  ulti- 
mately raised  wherever  a  limb  of  tlie  god 
had  beeu  found,  and  one  of  surpassing  | 
magnificence  at  Philae,  where  the  body  was  i 
finally  pi  iced.  During  all  this  time  Tv-  | 
phon  had  been  undisputed  monarch  in 
Egypt,  but  he  had  not  slain  llorus.  tiie  i 
sou  of  Osiris  and  Isis,  who  had  beeu  con-  j 
cealed  from  his  anger  in  the  city  of  Hutis. 
Wlien  llorus  grew  up  and  became  strong, 
he  left  tiis  coacealnient.  proclaimed  war 
upon  his  father's  murdei-er.  vanquished 
him  in  a  series  of  battles,  ami  finally  ' 
slew  him,  aud  threw  his  carcass  into 
Lake  Sirbon. 

Nor  is  Osiris  seen 

In  Memphiau  grove  or  greea. 

Trampling  tlie  unshowered  grass  with  low- 
ing* loud: 

Nor  can  he  be  at  rest 

Within  his  sacroj  che«t; 
Nau'.;ht  but  profoundest   hell  can   be    his 
shroud: 

In  vaiu  with  timbrelel  anthems  dark 

The  s.ible-stoltd  sorcerers  bear  his  worshiped 
ark.  Milion. 

0§'rick.  A  courtier,  in  Shakespeare's 
"■  Haiultt." 

IS£S^  ••  Osrick  is  a  tvpe  of  the  enphuist, 
or  atfected  courtier  of  Shakespeare's  time, 
who  was  a  hiir-splitter  in  thought,  and 
absurdly  dainty  and  extravagant  in  ex- 
pression/' A'.  G.  White. 

Os'sa.  [Gr.  'Oo-o-a.]  .\  hijrh  inouiitain 
in  Thes.'ialy,  near  Pelion.  The  an- 
cients placed  the  abode  ot"  the  (iiants 
and  tlie  Centaurs  in  the  nei;;hbor- 
hood  of  these  two  mountains,  and 
they  feigned  that  the   Giants  piled 


Ossa  upon  Pelion  in  their  attempti 
to  scale  heaven. 

Os'siSLn  (osh'iln).  A  fabulous  Celtic 
wariior  poet  mentioned  in  Krse  bal- 
lads and  Hj_:.cliland  traditions,  and 
chietiy  known  tVom  Maepherson's 
pretended  "  I'oeiiis  of  Ossian." 

Ost-end' Manifesto.  iAmtr.  Hist.) 
A  name  popuLarJy  given  in  America 
to  a  dcelaration  by  .lames  Buchanan, 
minister  to  Knglaml,  John  Y.  Mason, 
minister  to  Iraiicc.  and  I'ierre  Soule, 
minister  to  Spain,  that  Cuba  must  be 
acquired  by  the  United  States,  as  not 
only  necessary  to  the  jwlitical  power 
of  th«  Union,  but  especially  indis- 
pensable to  the  welfare  and  .security 
of  the  slave  -  holding  portion  of  it. 
This  declaration  was  in  the  form  of 
a  joint  communication  to  the  home 
government,  and  was  dated  at  Ai.\- 
la-Chapelle  on  the  17th  of  ( )ctober, 
18-57,  though  a  preliminary  confer- 
ence of  three  days'  duration  had  been 
held  at  Ostend  in  Belgium. 

Os'w"4ld.  Steward  to  Goneril,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Lear." 

O-thel'lo.  A  Moor  of  Venice,  in 
Shakespeare's  play  of  the  same  name. 
He  marries  Desdemona,  the  daughter 
of  a  Venetian  senator,  and  is  led  by 
his  ensign,  lago,  a  consummate  vil- 
lain, to  distrust  her  lidelity  and  virtue, 
and  finally  to  kill  her;  not,  however, 
in  jealousy,  ])roporly  speaking,  but, 
as  Coleridge  says,  "in  a  conviction 
forced  upon  him  by  the  almo.st  super- 
human art  of  lago,  —  such  a  convic- 
tion as  any  man  would  and  must 
have  entertained  who  had  believed 
lago's  honesty,  as  Othello  did." 

Other  One,  The.  [Fr.  7/ Autre.']  An 
allusive  soliriciuet  given  to  Napoleon 
Bonaparte  l)v  his  partisans  in  Franco 
during  his  Vtanishment  to  Elba.     See 

VioLKT,  Court )HAL. 

Ot'nit.  A  fa1)Mlons  emperor  of  the 
Lombards  who  figures  in  one  of  the 
most  pleasing  poems  in  the  old  Ger- 
man "  Heldeiibiich."  By  the  hel]i 
of  the  celebrated  dwarf  Elberich  (see 
Oukkon)  he  gains  the  daughter  of 
the  painim  soldan  of  Syria  for  his 
wife. 


IS^  For  the  "  Key  t<.>  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanyiiit;   Explunatiuna 


OTR 


?7o 


OWL 


O'Trig'ger,  Sir  Lucius.  An  honest, 
fortune-'huntin;^^  liihiTuian  in  ^iheri- 
dan's  (.•oiML'dy  of  *•  I'lie  Kivals."  He 
is  noted  tor  liis  love  of  lighting. 

As  Sir  /,«(•/'«.<  0"J'ii(j!/cr  says,  there  was  an 
air  ufsucci'ss  about  Cui)tain  Oluvelandj  wliich 
Was  iiiiglity  provoking.  jSir  H .  Scott. 

Ot'u-el,  Sir.  A  haughty  and  pre- 
suniptiious  Saracen,  nepliew  to  the 
I'ainoiis  iH-rragus,  or  Icrraciite.  He 
was  nuratiiloiisly  converted  from 
paganism  to  Christianity,  and  mar- 
ried the  daughter  of  Cliarlemagne. 

Outis  (ow'tis,  or  oo'tis).  [Gr.  outi?, 
nobody,  from  ov,  not,  and  n?,  any 
one. J  An  assumed  name  which 
Ulysses,  in  the  '"  Odyssey,"  palms  off 
as  his  real  name  upon  i^olyphemus, 
a  Cyclops,  wiiose  single  eye  he  de- 
stroys while  the  monster  is  stretched 
out  on  the  ground  in  a  drunken 
sleep. 

All  now  looked  on  him  [Robespierre]  with 
fear,  and  none  dared  liope  at  the  hands  of  the 
Dictator  a   better    boon   than   th.it   whieh   is 

Sroniised  to  Outis,  that  he  should  be  the  last 
evoured.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Those  feel  it[poctry]  most,  and  write  it  best, 
who  forget  tliat  it  is  a  work  of  art;  .  .  .  who 
are  too  much   frightened  for  IHysses  in   the    I 
C'lve  of  Polyphemus  to  care  whether  the  pun    I 
about  Ottfi.-i  be  good  or  bad.  Jdicaukif/.    \ 

Overdo,  Justice.     A  prominent  and 

cele!)rated  character  in  Ben  Jonson's 

*'  Bartholomew  I'air." 

"  Your  friend,  here,"  said  Claverhouse  to 
the  veteran,  coolly,  "is  one  of  thfisc  scrupu- 
lous gentlemen  who,  like  tlie  madmin  in  the 
plav,  will  not  tit'  his  cravat  without  the  war- 
rant of  Mr.  ,/«.v//Vv'  Orarilo."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Overdone,  Mistress.  A  bawd,  in 
Shakespeare's  '•  Measure  for  Meas- 
ure." 

Overreach,  Sir  Giles.  A  famous 
character  in  ^Nlassinger's  comedy,  '"  A 
New  AVav  to  pay  Old  lehts,"  in- 
tended to  represent  a  real  person,  one 
Sir  Giles  Mompesson,  a  notorious 
usurer  of  the  day,  who  was  expelled 
the  kingdom  tV)r  his  misdeeds.  Over- 
reach is  a  hold,  unscrupulous  op- 
pressor, greedy  of  wealth,  intensely 
passionate,  and  of  inordinate  pride 
and  ambition. 

The  son  wns  proud,  not  of  his  f  ither's  fame, 
but  of  his  father's  money,  and  withal  not 
penerous,  nor  exactly  extrrvagant,  but  using 
money  as  power,  —  power  thit  allowed  him  to 
insult  an  equal  or  to  buy  a  slave.  Tn  a  word, 
his  nickname  at  school  was  "  ,SV>  frifes  Orer- 
rcach."  Sir  E.  Buhoer  Lytton. 


Ow'ain,  Sir.  An  Irish  knight  of  King 
Stephen's  court,  who  is  fabled  to 
have  entered  and  passed  through  St. 
Patrick's  Purgatory  by  way  of  per- 
forming penance  for  luiving  lived  a 
life  of  violence  and  lajjine.  The  le- 
gend of  the  descent  of  Owain,  com- 
posed by  Henry,  an  English  Bene- 
dictine monk  of  the  abbey  of  Saltrey, 
in  llo^i,  first  made  known  to  the 
world  the  .story  of  the  Purgatory  of 
St.    Patrick.      See    St.   pAxmcK's 

PUKGATUKY. 

Owle-glass,  TyU.  [Ger.  Tyll  Evlen- 
s/ju(/(:l,  from  e«/e,  owl,  ajntr/el^  glass; 
hence,  Vv.  tsplrt/U-,  waggish,  origi- 
nally ults/nr(j(t.\  The  liero  of  a 
'•  V'olksbuch,"  or  (ierman  popular 
comic  tale,  often  alluded  to  by  va- 
rious old  authors,  which  relates  the 
freaks,  pranks,  drolleries,  fortunes, 
and  misfortunes,  of  a  Avandering  me- 
chanic, said  to  have  been  born  in 
the  village  of  Kneittingen,  in  Bruns- 
Avick.  The  author  of  this  work  is 
supposed  to  have  been  Dr.  Thomas 
jNIurner  (1475  — about  1530),  a  Fran- 
ciscan friar,  and  a  jirolific  writer. 
Translations  exist  in  Knglish,  French, 
Italian,  and  other  languages.  Our 
English  version,  entitled  ''The  mer- 
rA^e  jeste  of  a  man  that  was  called 
Jlotcle-f/f.'i.'f.'i,  and  of  many  marveylous 
thinges  and  jestes  that  he  did  in  his 
lyfe  in  I'>astland,"  was  "  Imprinted  at 
London  in  'i'amestreete,  at  the  Vin- 
Ire,  in  Three  (Jraned  \\'arfe,  by  Wyl- 
lyam  Copland."  Another  edition,  in 
a  modified  Ibrm,  appeared  in  1720. 
The  excellent  edition  by  Kenneth 
R.  II.  Mackenzie  (London,  1800), 
though  in  the  main  following  the 
Low  (ierman  original  of  151i),  is  not 
a  simple  translation,  hut  a  collection 
orselection  of  Owle-glass  stories  made 
by  a  collation  of  several  editions  in 
the  German,  French,  and  Ileinish 
languages,  and  including  two  or  three 
tales  wholly  his  own.  [Written  also 
II  o  w  1  e  -  g  1  a  s  s,  O  w  ]  c  -  S  p  i  e  g  e  1, 
and  U  len -S  pi  egcL] 

j^^  "  We  may  sny  that  to  few  mortals 
has  it  been  granted  to  ear:i  such  a  place 
i  I  universal  history  as  'I;,  11  Eulenspiepel. 
Now,  after  five  centuries,  Tyll's  native 
■village  is  pointed  out  witli  pride  to  tha 


ftnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  wordii  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


OWL 


276 


OX 


traveler;  ami  liis  tombstone  —  with  a 
sculptured  pun  on  his  name,  an  owl, 
namely,  and  a  glass  —  still  stands,  or 
pretends  to  stand,  '  at  Mblleu,  near  Lii- 
bcck,"  whore.  .«ince  13o0.  his  once  nim- 
ble bones  have  V)een  at  rest."'  Carlyle. 
'•  The  inhabitants  of  Damme,  in  Belgium, 
also  boast  of  having  his  bones  in  their 
churrh-yard.  and  place  his  death  in  1301, 
po  that  s«'veral  critics  regard  F-ulenspie- 
gel  iis  an  altogether  imaginary  person,  a 


mere  nnminis  umbm  affixed  to  a  cycle 
of  mediaeval  tricks  and  adventures.  The 
opinion,  however,  considered  most  prob- 
able is,  that  Eulen-piegel  is  not  a  myth, 
but  that  there  were  two  historical  in- 
dividuals ot  that  name,  father  and  son, 
of  whom  thi^  former  died  at  Damme,  and 
the  latter  at  Mnlln."  Chambers. 


Ox,  Dvunb,  or  Mute. 
Ox. 


See  Dumb 


,  e^  F«r  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuaciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanations, 


PAC 


277 


PAL 


P. 


Paeiflcation  of  Ghent.  ( Eist. )  The 
name  ^ivcii  to  ii  compact  entered  into 
bv  the  north  and  soutli  ])rovinees  of 
the  Netherlands  to  resist  the  tyranny 
of  Spain.  It  was  signed  at  Ghent, 
November  8,  157t). 

Pac'o-let.  A  dwarf  in  the  old  ro- 
mance of  ''  Valentine  and  Orson," 
"full  of  great  sense  and  subtle  in- 
genuity," who  owned  an  enchanted 
steed,  made  of  wood,  which  is  often 
alluded  to  by  early  writers.  The 
name  of  Pacolet  was  borrowed  by 
Steele  for  his  familiar  spirit  in  the 
"  Tatler."  The  French  have  a  prov- 
erb, "  It  is  the  horse  of  Pacolet ;  "  that 
is,  it  is  one  who  goes  extremely  quick. 

Here  is  a  letter,  she  said,  .  .  .  which  .  .  . 
misht,  perliaps,  never  have  reached  your 
hands,  had  it  not  fallen  into  the  possession  of 
a  certain  I'ncnlet,  or  enchanted  dwarf,  whom, 
like  all  distressed  damsels  of  romance,  I  re- 
tain in  my  secret  service.  Sir  IT.  Scott. 

Pac-tolus.  [Gr.  na^TcoAo?.]  The  an- 
cient name  of  a  river  of  Lydia,  Asia 
Minor,  which  was  said  to  flow  over 
golden  sands.  It  is  now  the  Bagou- 
ly.     See  Midas. 

Pad'g-lon.  {Bindu  Myth.)  The  un- 
der -  world,  the  abode  of  departed 
spirits ;  thought  to  be  of  an  octago- 
nal shape,  and  to  liave  its  eight  gate- 
ways guarded  bj^  as  many  gods. 

PsB'on.  [Gr.  Ilaidiv.']  {Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  physician  of  the  gods; 
the  god  of  medicine; — used  some- 
times as  a  surname  of  JEsculajnus. 
See  ^scuLAPius.  [Written  also 
Pa;  an.] 

Page,  Anne.  A  young  w^oman,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor,"  in  love  with  Fenton. 

Page,  Mr.  A  gentleman  living  at 
Windsor,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor;"  distinguished 
for  his  uxoriousness. 

Page,  Mrs.  A  gentlewoman,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor," 
with  whom  Sir  John   Falstatf  is  in 


love,  and  who  joins  with  Mrs.  Ford 
in  a  plot  to  dupe  and  disgrace  him. 

Page,  William.  A  school- boy  in 
Shakespeare's  "Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor;"  a  son  of  the  Mr.  Pago 
who  figures  in  the  same  play. 

Painter  of  the  Graces.  A  name 
applied  by  his  contemporaries  to  An- 
drea Appiani  (175-t-]817),  an  Italian 
painter   celebrated   for  his  beautiful 

frescoes. 

Paix  des  Dames  (padiidam).  Sec 
Ladiks'  Pkace. 

Paix  Pourr6e  (pa  foo'ra').  See 
Patcukd-up  Peace. 

Pa-lse'mon.  [Gr.  UaXai^tav.']  1.  {Gr. 
tf  Rinn.  }tylh.)  A  sea-god  friendly 
to  the  shipwrecked; — a  surname  of 
Melicei'tes,  the  son  of  I  no.  See 
Melicertes. 

2.  A  shepherd  in  Virgil's  third 
Eclogue.  He  is  chosen  umpire  in  a 
musical  contest  between  Damoetas 
and  Menalcas,  but,  after  hearing 
them,  declares  his  inability  to  decide 
such  an  important  controversy. 

PaPa-me'des.  [Gr.  naAa/A^Srjs.] 
(  Gr.  cf  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Nau- 
plius,  king  of  Eubcea,  and  of  Clym- 
ene,  his  wife.  He  was  celebrated 
for  his  inventive  genius,  and  is  said 
to  have  been  the  iirst  who  made 
measures,  scales,  dice.  &c.  Hence 
the  name  is  sometimes  used  as  an 
appellation  of  any  ingenious  man. 
When  Ulysses,  to  avoid  going  to  the 
Trojan  war,  feigned  madness,  and 
plowed  up  the  sea-shore,  sowing  it 
Avith  salt,  Palamedes  discovered  the 
deception  by  placing  Ulysses'  son 
Telemachus  in  the  way,  which  com- 
pelled him  to  turn  the  plow  aside, 
that  he  might  not  hurt  the  boy.  For 
this  Ulysses  hated  and  persecuted 
Palamedea,  and  at  last  caused  his 
destruction;  thouch,  as  to  the  way 
in  which  this  was  effected,  accounts 
differ 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


PAL 


278 


PAL 


Pal'a-me'dSs,  Sir.  A  fjallant  Sara- 
cen kiii;;iit,  the  iiiitortiniate  and  de- 
spairiiii;  adoivr  of  Isolde,  overcome 
ill  siii<,^Ie  coiiil)at  by  Sir  Tristram,  his 
siiccesst'ul  rival,  who  converted  iiiin 
to  Christianity,  had  liim  baptized, 
and  became  his  godfather. 

Pal'S-mon.  A  cliaracter  in  the 
"  Knight's  Tale  "  in  (Jhancer's"  Can- 
terbury Tales."  This  poem  is  an  im- 
itation of  one  l)y  Boccaccio,  entitled 
''  Le  Teseide."  Dryden  made  a  spir- 
ited version  of  Chaucer's  ])oem,  which 
he  published  under  the  name  of  "  Pal- 
auion  and  Arcite."  The  i)lot  turns 
upon  the  love  of  these  two  youths  for 
a  beautiful  lady  nanu'(l  Emilia.  In 
the  conclusion,  Palamon,  after  many 
troubles.  ol)tains  her;  while  Arcite, 
who  had  taken  advantage  of  Pala- 
mon's  friendsliip,  is  killed. 

Pale,  The.  (Jrisli  Hist.)  That  por- 
tion of  the  kingdom  of  Ireland  over 
which  the  P^nglish  rule  and  English 
law  were  acknowledged  after  the  in- 
vasion of  1 172.  It  may  be  considered, 
in  a  general  way,  as  comprising  the 
counties  of  I)ul)lin,  Meath,  Carlow, 
Kilkenny,  and  Louth,  though  the 
limits  of  the  district  varied  at  dif- 
ferent times.  According  to  Knight, 
it  originally  comj^rised  all  the  eastern 
coast  of  Ireland  from  Dundalk  Bay 
to  Waterford  harbor,  and  extended 
some  forty  or  lifty  miles  inland.  It 
Avas  so  called  Ix-cause  the  conquerors, 
in  fear  of  the  half-snbdued  natives, 
"  inclosed  and  iinp-ilcd  themselves,  as 
it  were,  within  certain  lists  and  ter- 
ritories." [Called  also  The  Knylisit 
Pale.] 

Pa-le'mSn.  1.  A  character  in  Fal- 
coner's "  Shipwreck,"  in  love  with 
the  daughter  of  Albert,  the  com- 
mander. 

2.  The  hero  of  an  episode  in 
Thomson's  "•  Seasons  "  (''Autumn  " ) ; 
represented  as  "the  pride  of  swains," 
and  the  owner  of  harvest-fields,  in 
■which  ''the  lovely  young  Lavinia  " 
coming  to  glean,  Palemon  falls  in 
love  with  her,  and  wooes  and  wins 
her. 

The  pomposition  nnd  harmony  of  the  work 
rSouthey's  "  Th^iliha"],  ai'ciinliinfly,  is  inucli 
like   the   pattern  of  that  patch  work  drapery 


that  is  sometimes  to  he  met  with  in  the  ma«- 
sioiis  of  tlie  iudustriou.s,  wliere  a  blue  tfr« 
overshadows  u  shell-tish,  nnd  a  >;iganfir  but- 
terfly seems  ready  to  swallow  up  Pultmun  and 
Lavinia.  Jvjirty. 

Pa'les.  {Rnm.  Miith.)  The  tutelary 
deity  of  shepherds,  tlocks,  and  cat- 
tle; worshiped  with  great  solemnity 
among  the   Komans. 

Pomona  loves  the  orchard, 

And  Liber  l()\es  the  vine, 
And  I'nivs  loves  the  straw-lniilt  shed 

Warm  with  the  breath  of  kine. 

Macatilay. 

PaPi-nu'rus.  [Or.  riaAo'ovpo?.]  The 
pilot  of  ^Eneas,  in  Virgil's  ''^Eneid," 
who  fell  asleep  at  the  helm,  and  tum- 
bled into  the  sea  when  ott'  the  coast 
of  Lucania,  Avhence  the  name  of  the 
])romontory  near  the  spot.  [Written 
also  poetically,  and  in  an  Anglicized 
form.  Pal  i  n  ur  e.] 

More  had  she  spoke,  but  j-awned.    All  nature 

nods; 
VVlint  mortal  can  resisttheyawn  of  gods?  .  .  . 
Wide,  and  more  wide,  it  spreads  o'er  all  the 

realm ; 
Even  /'«/(//!/>■(/.<  nodded  at  the  helm.  Pope. 
His  [Frederick  the  Great's]  J'dlinurtix  and 
chief  counselo!-,  at  present  and  afterward,  is  a 
Count  von  Briihl,  ...  a  cunning  little  wretch, 
tliey  say,  and  of  daft  tongue,  but  surely 
among  the  unwisest  of  all  tlie  sons  of  Adam 
in  that  day,  and  such  a  I'alinunts  as  seldom 
steered  before.  Curlyle. 

Palla-diae  of  England.  The  hero 
of  an  old  "  Famous,  Pleasant,  and 
Delightful  History,"  formerly  very 
popular.  It  was  translated  from  the 
French,  and  was  originallv  published 
in  1.58(5. 

Pal-la'di-um.  [Gr.  llaAAiStoi'.]  ( Gr. 
if  Rom.  Mijilt.)  A  famous  statue  of 
Pallas,  or  Minerva,  ."^aid  to  have  fall- 
en from  heaven  upon  the  plain  of 
Troy.  On  its  preservation  the  safety 
of  Troy  depended;  and  it  was  there- 
fore stolen  by  L'lysses  and  Diomed. 

Pallas.  [(Jr.  HaAAas.]  (Gr.  i.f  Rom. 
Mj/tli.)    A  surname  of  Minerva.    See 

MiNEUV.V. 

Can  tyrants  but  bv  tyrants  conquered  be. 
And  Freedom  tind  nochainpion  and  no  child. 
Such  as  Cohimbii  s>w  arise,  when  she 
Sprang  forth  a  Pallas,  armed  and  undefiled  ? 

Dfiroiu 

PaPmer-in.  The  hero  of  several  fa- 
mous old  romances  of  chivalry,  par- 
ticularly the  two  entitled  "  Palmeriu 
de  Oliva"  and  "  Palmerin  of  Eng- 
land." 


QST'  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


PAL 


279 


PAX 


Bnt,  believe  me,  though  to  be  an  absolute 
Patmtrin  ui'  Kii^riiiiid  is  not  in  my  nature,  no 
son  ever  loved  a  mother  more  dearly,  or  would 
do  more  to  (>l)lige  her.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Palmetto  State.  Tlie  State  of  South 
Carolina  ;  —  so  called  from  the  arms  of 
the  State,  Avhich  contain  a  palmetto- 
tree. 

Pam.  A  familiar  diminutive  or  con- 
traction of  PdliHtrsUm,  the  titular 
name  of  Henry  Jului 'leinple  (1784- 
18155),  a  distinguished  English  states- 
man, minister,  and  diplomatist,  and 
a  viscount  of  the  Irish  peerage. 

Pa-me'la.  The  title  of  a  celebrated 
novel  bv  Richardson,  and  the  name 
(adopted  by  him  from  Sir  Philip 
Sidney's  "  Arcadia  ")  of  its  heroine, 
a  simple  and  innocent  conn  try -girl, 
whose  virtue  a  dissolute  master  as- 
sails by  violence,  as  well  as  all  the 
milder  means  of  i;eduction,  but  who 
con(|uers  him  at  last,  by  persevering 
in  the  paths  of  rectitude,  and  is  re- 
warded by  being  raised  to  the  sta- 
tion of  his  wife,  the  lawful  participa- 
tor in  his  rank  and  fortune. 

4®=  "Althou.ii;h  some  objection  may  be 
made  to  the  deductions  which  the  author 
desired  and  expected  should  be  drawn 
from  the  story  of  Pamela,  yet  the  pure 
and  modest  character  of  the  Enj^lish 
maiden  is  so  well  maintairied  during  the 
work ;  her  sorrows  and  afflictions  are 
borne  with  so  much  meekness  ;  her  little 
intervals  of  hope  or  comparative  tran- 
quillity break  in  on  her  troubles  so  much 
like  the  specks  of  blue  sky  through  a 
cloudy  atmosphere,  that  the  whole  rec- 
ollection is  soothing,  tranquilizing,  and 
doubtless  edifying."'  Sir  W.  Scott. 

i8@=  "  She  told  me  that  .  .  .  they  had  a 
daughter  of  a  very  strange  name.  Pamela 
or  Pamela  ;  some  pronounce  it  one  way, 
and  some  the  other." 

Field  in  g,  Joseph  Andrews. 

Pan.  [Gr.  Ilai',  probably  connected 
with  Traoj,  Lat.  pasco,  to  feed,  to  pas- 
ture ;  but  thought  by  some  to  be  the 
same  as  to  nay,  the  whole,  the  uni- 
verse.] ((??'.  if  Rom.  Myth.)  The 
son  of  IMercury  and  Penelope,  and 
the  god  of  woods,  shepherds,  and 
huntsmen ;  represented  as  a  grim, 
shaggy  l)eing,  with  horns,  pointed 
ears,  a  crooked  nose,  a  tail,  and 
goat's  feet.  He  was  fond  of  music, 
and  possessed  prophetic  powers.     He 


had  a  terrific  voice,  and  sometime 
appeared  unexpectedly  to  travelers, 
whom  he  startled  with  a  sudden  awe 
or  terror.  It  was  a  current  belief 
among  the  early  Christians,  that,  at 
the  moment  of  our  Saviour's  cruci- 
fixion, a  deep  groan,  lu'ard  all  through 
the  Grecian  isles,  told  that  the  great 
Pan  was  dead,  and  all  the  gods  of 
Olympus  dethroned.     See  Syhinx. 

Airs,  vernnl  airs, 
Breathing  the  smell  of  field  and  grove,  attune 
The  trembling  leaves;  while  tiniversiil  l'<in. 
Knit  with  the  (inicts  and  the  Hours  in  danee, 
Led  on  the  eternal  si)ring.  Milton. 

The  lonely  mountains  o'er, 
And  the  resounding  shore, 

A  voice  of  weeping  heard  and  loud  lament; 
From  haunted  spring  and  dale, 
Edged  with  pojilar  pale. 

The  parting  genius  is  with  sighing  sent: 
"With  fiower-inwoven  tresses  torn. 
The  nymphs  in   twilight    shade  of  tangled 
thickets  mourn.  Hilton. 

Pan'da-rus.  [Gr.  navSapo?.]  A  son 
of  Lj'caon,  and  leader  of  the  Lycians 
in  the  Trojan  war,  celebrated  by 
Homer  in  the  "  Iliad."  In  mediieval 
romances,  and  by  Chaucer  in  "  Troi- 
lus  and  Cresseide,"  and  Shakespeare 
in  "  Troilus  and  Cressida,"  he  is  rep- 
resented as  procuring  for  Troilus  the 
love  and  good  graces  of  Chryseis; 
hence  the  word  pnnder  (formerly 
written  pmnbtr)  is  used  to  denote  a 
pimp,  or  procurer. 

Pan'de-mo'ni-um.  [Gr.  Tra?,  nav, 
all,  and  Saiimoji',  a  demon.]  A  name 
given  by  Milton  to 

"  The  higli  capital 
Of  Satan  and  his  peers." 

(Far.  Lost,  Bk.  I.) 

Pan-do'ra  (9).  [Gr.  UavhiLpa,  the  all- 
endowed.]  {Gr.  cf-  Rom.  Myth.)  The 
first  mortal  woman;  made  by  Vul- 
can, at  the  command  of  Jupiter.  She 
was  very  beautiful,  and  all  the  gods 
made  her  presents,  that  she  might 
win  the  heart  of  Prometheus,  to 
whom  Jove  sent  her,  designing,  that, 
by  her  charms,  miseries  of  every  kind 
should  be  brought  upon  men,  as  a 
punishment  for  the  crime  of  Prome- 
theus in  stealing  fire  from  heaven. 
Prometheus,  however,  would  not  re- 
ceive her;  and  ^lercurv  accordingly 
took  her  to  Epimetheus,  Avho  had  less 
wisdom,  and  was  captivated  by  her 
loveliness.    A  later  form  of  the  txa- 


^nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


PAN 


280 


PAN 


dition  says  that  Jupiter  gave  her  a 
box  tilled  with  winged  blessings, 
wliicii  would  licivc  buuii  preserved  lur 
tile  liumaii  race,  had  not  euricisity 
tempted  her  to  open  it,  when  all  tiew 
out,  except  Hope. 

In  naked  beauty  more  adorned, 
More  lovely,  tliaii  I'anLtiru,  whom  the  gods 
Endowed  "with  all    their  gitls;   and  olil    too 

like 
In  siid  event,  when  to  the  unwiscr  son 
Of'Japhet  l)i(iu>clit  by  Hermes,  slie  ensnared 
M  in  kind  with  her  lair  looks,  to  he  avenjred 
On  him  who  had  stole  Jove's  authentic  fire. 

Hilton. 

Pan'gloss.  [Gr.  irii',  all,  and  vAdxra-a, 
tongue.]  1.  An  optimist  philosopher 
in  Voltaire's  "  Candide." 

2.  A  noted  pedant  in  Colman's 
play  entitled  ''The  Heir  at  Law;" 
poor,  hut  proud  of  being  an  LL.D., 
and,  moreover,  an  A.k.S.  {Artlurn 
(S('(  ittdlis  Sen  lus). 

Pan-handle,  The.  A  fanciful  and 
cant  name  given,  from  its  form,  to 
the  most  northerly  portion  of  the 
State  of  West  Virginia,  —  a  long, 
narrow  projection  between  the  Ohio 
Kiver  and  the  western  boundary  of 
Pennsylvania. 

Pan-jan'drum,  The  Grand.  A  sort 
of  mythical  nonentity  invented  l)y 
Foote,  the  comic  dramatist.  The 
name  occurs  in  a  farrago  of  utter 
nonsense,  of  about  a  dozen  lines  in 
length,  which  he  wrote  on  a  wager, 
to  test  the  memory  of  a  person  who 
boasted  of  the  wonderful  retentive- 
ness  of  this  faculty  in  himself,  and 
who  agreed  to  get  Foote's  galimatias 
by  heart  in  twelve  minutes,  and  re- 
peat it  without  making  the  slightest 
mistake.  It  is  said  that  Foote  won 
the  wager. 

He  w;is  the  great  Fanjnndrum  ci(  the  place. 
Calais,  in  fact,  centered  in  Dossein. 

I'ercji  FitzgeraJd. 

So,  said  Charles,  thf^re  were  nt  the  marrintre 
the  Picanninies,  and  tl\e  Jdblilies,  but  not  7'/;e 
QrcDul  I'luiJandruiiL  himself.  Yonge. 

Pan'o-pae'a,  or  Pan'o-pe.  [Gr.  iia- 
I'on-Tj.]  {Gr.  i^^  Rom.  Mi/th.)  A  sea- 
nymph,  one  of  the  Nereids. 

The  air  was  calm,  and  on  the  level  brine 
Sleek  Panupe  with  all  her  sisters  played. 

'  Milton. 

Pantagruel  (pan-tag'roo-el;  Fr.pron. 
po"'t.l''grii'el',  34,' G2).  (Jnc  of  the 
principal  characters  in  Rabelais'  cele- 


brated satirical  romance  of  the  same 
name;  represented  as  a  gigantic  per- 
sonage, beneath  whose  tongue  a 
whole  army  taKes  shelter  from  rain; 
in  wliose  mouth  and  throat  are  cities 
which  coiuaiii  an  immense  popula- 
tion, &ic.  I'aiitagruel  is  a  virtuous 
prince,  devout,  and  .'icvere  in  his 
morals;  yet  he  takes  tor  his  favorite 
the  licentious,  intemperate,  coward- 
ly rogue,  I'anurge.  Born  in  the 
midst  of  a  drought,  when  all  the 
moisture  of  the  earth  was  a  salt  per- 
spiration, he  is  named  Pantagruel, 
by  the  combination  of  a  Greek  word 
(TToti'Ta)  and  an  Arabic  word,  to  sig- 
nify "  All-thirsty."  See  Badebec, 
Panukge. 

Old  Chaucer  doth  of  Thopas  tell; 

Mad  Ii.ibelais  of  I'untagruel.         Drayton. 

lie  fiir  besought  the  ferryman  of  hell 
That  he  might  drink  to  iead  Puntdqruel. 

jjjj.  IfaTl. 

Pantagru^lion  (pan'tS-groo-e'li-nn  ; 
Fv.  prun.  p6u'ta''grii''a/le-oi').  The 
name  of  an  herb  mentioned  in  Rabe- 
lais' romance  of  "  Pantagruel,"  and 
supposed  to  mean  htinp.  and  to  bear 
a  reference  to  the  persecution  of  the 
Protestants. 

Pan'ta-loon'.  [Fr.  Pdntalon,  It. 
Pantdlone,  from  Pantaleone  (Gr. 
UavTaKeixty,  all  or  entirely  lion,  a 
Greek  personal  name),  the  patron 
saint  of  Venice,  and  hence  a  bap- 
tismal name  very  frequent  among  the 
Venetians,  and  applied  to  them  in 
derision  by  the  other  Italians.  Some, 
however,  derive  the  name  from  the 
Italian  words  pinntu-ltone,  that  is, 
the  ''  lioii-planter,"  the  lion  of  St. 
Mark  being  the  standard  of  the 
A'enetian  republic.  (See  Byron's 
''  Childe  Harold,"  canto  iv.)]  One 
of  tlie  chief  characters  in  the  modern 
Christmas  pantomime ;  usually  rep- 
resented as  a  feeble-minded  old  man, 
the  butt  of  the  clown,  and  yet  the 
aider  and  abettor  of  his  comic  vil- 
lainy. In  the  original  Italian  panto- 
mime, he  was  a  Venetian  burgher, 
dressed  in  close  breeches  and  stock- 
ings that  were  all  of  a  piece. 

Pan  urge  (pa-nurj'  ;  Fr.  pron.  p.t'- 
niir/.h',  34).  A  celebrated  character 
in  Rabelais'  "  Pantagruel,"  and  the 


CS~  For  the  "Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"   with   the  accompanying  Explanations, 


PAN 


281 


PAP 


real  hero  of  the  story  ;  represented 
as  an  arrant  rogue,  crafty  and  versa- 
tile in  the  extreme,  a  drunkard,  a 
coward,  and  a  Hbertine. 

>e®="  Learned  iu  tlie  highest  degree, 
this  eccentric  person  is  a  kiud  of  spoiled 
child,  aud,  ou  that  aci-ouut,  the  privi- 
leged jester  of  l*autagruel  aud  liis  frieuds. 
He  is  described  as  of  middle  stature,  with 
au  aquiline  nose,  handsome  to  look  upon, 
aud  subject  to  a  disease  called  ••  want  of 
money."  The  great  object  of  his  life, 
previous  to  his  acquaintance  with  Pan- 
tagruel,  was  the  performance  of  count- 
less malicious  practical  jokes,  with  the 
materials  for  which  his  numerous  pockets 
are  arnietl.  In  one  he  has  little  horns  full 
of  Heas,  which  he  amuses  himself  by  blow- 
ing upon  the  necks  of  the  ladies  in  church ; 
in  another  he  has  a  store  of  hooks,  that 
he  may  fasten  people's  dresses  together  ; 
in  the  third  a  bottle  of  oil,  that  he  may 
soil  handsome  suits  ;  in  another  an  itch- 
ing powder ;  and  so  on.  These  are  no  very 
amiable  qualities,  but,  nevertheless,  the 
reader  always  has  an  affection  for  Pa- 
nurge.  In  the  third  book,  Pantagruel  is 
represented  as  making  Panurge  governor 
of  Salmagondin,  in  which  capacity  he 
soon  contrives  to  waste  his  revenue.  For 
immersing  himself  in  debt,  he  has  to  en- 
dure the  reproaches  of  his  master ;  and 
his  defense,  in  which  he  sets  up  a  eulogy 
of  indebtedness,  is  a  masterpiece  of  pomp- 
ous burlesque.  Pantagruel  is  not  con- 
vinced by  the  eloquent  harangue  of  his 
favorite,  but  discharges  his  debts  ;  where- 
upon Panurge  takes  a  new  freak  into  liis 
head,  for  he  attires  himself  in  a  coarse 
gown,  and  attaches  a  pair  of  spectacles 
to  his  cap.  declaring  it  is  his  resolution 
to  take  to  himself  a  wife.  An  uneasy 
doubt  as  to  whether  his  entrance  into 
married  life  will  insure  felicity  is  the 
foundation  of  all  the  humor  and  satire 
of  the  book.  Every  mode  of  divination 
into  future  events  is  tried,  a  member  of 
every  conceivable  calling  is  consulted. 
The  theologian,  the  lawyer,  the  phj  si- 
cian,  and  skeptical  philosopher,  the  poet, 
the  idiot,  the  sibyl, — all  are  asked  for 
counsel,  besides  a  recurrence  to  dreams, 
and  a  search  for  oracular  answers,  ac- 
cording to  the  old  superstition,  in  the 
works  of  Virgil.  All  the  oracles  unite  in 
giving  answers  which,  in  the  opinion  of 
disinterested  friends,  are  plain  dissuasives 
from  matrimony  ;  while  Panurge,  whose 
heart  is  bent  on  a  wife,  displays  the  most 
vexing  ingenuity  in  torturing  them  to 
mean  the  reverse.  The  last  person  of 
whom  he  asks  advice  puts  info  his  hands 
an  empty  bottle,  which  Panurge  inter- 
prets to  imply  that  he  should  undertake 


a  voyage  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  a 
response  from  the  oracle  of  the  Holy  Bot- 
tle. The  fourth  and  tiftli  liooks  are  occu- 
pied with  the  expedition  of  Panurge,  ac- 
companied by  Pantagruel,  iu  quest  of  the 
oracie.  This  voyage  is  said  to  .-ignify  a 
departure  Irom  the  world  of  error  to 
search  after  truth,  which  the  author 
places  in  a  bottle,  in  consequence  of  the 
proverbial  effects  of  intoxication  (•'//» 
vino  Veritas  '").     See  IloLV  Bottle,  Or.\- 

CLE  OF  THE. 

MSP"  '■  All  Rabelais'  personages  are 
phantasmagoric  allegories,  but  Panurge 
above  all.  He  is,  throughout,  the  na- 
vovpyia,  —  the  wisdom,  that  is,  the  cun- 
ning, of  the  human  animal.  —  the  under- 
standing, as  the  faculty  of  means  to  pur- 
poses without  ultimate  ends,  in  the  most 
conipreliensive  sense,  and  including  art, 
sensuous  fvncy,  and  all  the  passions  of 
the  understanding."'  Coleridge. 

Panza,  Sancho  (sank'o  pan'za;  Sp. 
j))-on.  san'cho  pSn'tha).  [Sj).,  from 
znncas,  spindle-shanks,  and  prinz'i, 
paunch.]  The  esquire  of  Don  Quix- 
ote, in  Cervantes's  famous  novel  of 
this  name;  a  short,  pot-bellied  peas- 
ant, with  small  legs.  Ho  is  a  type 
of  vulgar  common  sense  without  im- 
agination. See  Don  Quixote  and 
Bakataiua. 

j^Sr"  "  At  first  he  is  introduced  as  the 
opposite  of  Don  Quixote,  and  used  merely 
to  bring  out  his  master's  peculiarities  in 
a  more  striking  relief.  It  is  not  until  we 
have  gone  thi'ough  nearly  half  of  the 
First  Part  that  he  utters  one  of  those 
proverbs  which  form  afterward  the  staple 
of  his  conversation  and  humor ;  and  it  is 
not  till  the  opening  of  the  Second  Part, 
and,  indeed,  not  till  he  comes  forth,  in 
alibis  mingled  shrewdness  and  credulity, 
as  governor  of  Barataria,  that  his  char- 
acter is  quite  developed  and  completed  to 
the  full  measure  of  its  grotesque  yet 
congruous  proportions."  Ticknor. 

Sleep,  says  Sancfio  Pnnza,  covens  a  man 
all  over  lite  a  mantle  of  comfort  ;  but  rishi'^ 
before  daylight  envelops  the  entire  bein.Lf  in 
jietty  misery.  A.  K.  II.  l.oyd. 

Panza,  Teresa  (te-re'zS  pan'zJL;  Sp. 
pron.  ta-ra'za  pan'thal.  A  character 
in  Cervantes's  "Don  Quixote;"  the 
wife  of  Sancho  Panza. 

Paper  King.  A  name  formerly  popu- 
larly given  to  John  Law  (1671-172'J), 
the  celebrated  financial  projector. 
See  Law's  Bluble. 

;0^  "  The  basis  of  Law's  project  was 
the  idea  tliat  piper  money  may  be  mul- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxij 


PAR 


282 


PAR 


tipUed  to  any  extent,  provided  there  be 
security  in  lixed  stock  ;  wliiie  tlie  truth 
is,  if  ttie  bulk  of  a  curr«,'iicy  is  iiicreapt-d 
beyond  the  actu;il  wants  of  coiiiijierce, 
all  Ids  parts,  or  .•-eparate  coins  and  notes, 
must  depreciate  in  proportion."        Rich. 

Paradise  of  Fools.     See  Limbo. 

Par'cse.  (Rom.  MytJi.)  Three  daugh- 
tiTs  (if  Xox  and  Krebus;  all-povvert'ul 
goddesses  who  presided  over  the  des- 
tiny ofiiian.  Thfir  names  wt-reClotho, 
who  was  siip])Osed  to  hohl  the  distaff' 
or  spindle:  l.aehesis.  wlio  was  some- 
times >iud  to  draw  out  the  thread  ofhii- 
niau  life;  and  Atropos,  wlio  cut  it  oft' 

Paribanou  (pa-re-ba'noo).  [Per., 
female  fairy.]  A  fairy  in  the  story 
of"  I'rince  Ahmed,"  in  the  "  Arabian 
Nights'  Entertainments."  [Written 
also    Peri    Banou.] 

Ills  [Bacon's]  understanding  resembled  the 
tent  wliicli  tlie  f.iiry  J'ariuDWUgnyi}  to  Prince 
Ahmed.  Fold  it,  "and  it  seemed  a  toy  for  the 
hand  of  a  1  uly ;  spread  it,  and  the  armies  of 
powerful  sultans  might  repose  beneath  its 
bhade.  Jfacaulai/. 

Par'i-del.  A  tickle  and  inconstant  lib- 
ertine in  Spenser's  "  Faiiiy  Queen." 

Nor  durst  li^ht  I'uridel  advance, 
Bold  as  lie  was,  a  looser  glance. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Par'is  {classical  pron.  pa'ris).  [Gr. 
llapis.]  1.  (  Gr.  if  Rum.  Myth.)  A  son 
of  Priam  and  Hecuba,  distinguished 
for  his  beauty.  His  mother,  having 
liad  an  ominous  dream,  exposed  him, 
as  soon  as  he  was  born,  on  Mount 
Ida;  but  he  was  found  by  a  shepherd, 
Avho  reared  him.  When  he  had 
grown  up,  he  married  CEnone,  daugh- 
ter of  the  river-god  Cebren.  A  dis- 
pute having  arisen  between  Juno, 
Minerva,  and  Venus  as  to  which  of 
them  was  the  handsomest,  Paris  was 
chosen  umpire,  and  decided  in  favor 
of  Venus,  who  had  jjromised  him 
Helen,  the  handsomest  Avoman  in  the 
world.  By  running  away  Avith  her, 
he  caused  the  Trojan  war,  in  which 
he  was  mortally  wounded  by  the 
arrow  of  Philoctetes.  In  his  dying 
moments,  his  love  for  his  tirst  wife, 
the  long-abandoned  CEnone,  returned ; 
but  she,  remend)ering  her  wrongs, 
would  at  first  have  nothing  to  do  with 
him.  Soon,  however,  repenting  of  her 
unkindness,  she  hastened  after  him 


with  remedies;    bu*  it  was  too  late, 
and,  in  her  grief,  she  hung  herself. 

2.  A  young  nobleman,  kinsman 
to  Escalus,  Prince  of  Verona,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "liomeo 
and  Juliet. 

Par'i-si-na.     The  heroine  of  Byron's 

Eoem  of  the  same  name.  She  had 
een  betrothed  to  Hugo,  the  natural 
son  of  Azo,  Prince  of  Kste.  Azo 
saw  and  coveted  heri)eauty;  and,  re- 
proaching his  sf)n  lor  the  stain  of  his 
birth,  which,  he  said,  rendered  him 
unworthy  the  possession  of  so  rich  a 
treasure,  he  himself  wedded  her.  The 
unhappy  lovers  could  not  control 
the  passion,  Avhich  was  innocent  and 
praiseworthy  in  its  commencement, 
but  which  a  change  of  circumstances 
had  rendered  criminal.  Their  incest- 
uous love  being  discovered,  Hugo  is 
executed;  but  the  poem  leaves  the 
fate  of  Parisina  doubtful. 

Par'is-me'nos.  The  hero  of  a  con- 
tinuation or  "  second  ])art ''  of  the 
history  of  Parismus.  It  records  his 
"  adventurous  travels  and  noble 
chivalry,  with  his  love  to  the  fair 
Princess  Angelica,  the  Lady  of  the 
Golden  ToAver ;  "  and  it  was  first  pub- 
lished in  1598. 

Pa-ris'mus.  A  "  valiant  and  re- 
nowned prince  of  Bohemia,"  the  hero 
of  an  old  romance,  or  "  history,"  for- 
merly very  popular.  It  contains  an 
account  of"  his  noble  l)attles  against 
the  Persians,  his  love  to  Laurana.  the 
king's  daughter  of  Thessaly,  and  his 
strange  adventures  in  the  Desolate 
Island."  It  was  written  by  Emanuel 
Foord,  and  was  first  published  in 
1598. 

Par'I-zide.  A  princess  whose  adven- 
tures in  search  of  the  Talking  Bird, 
the  Singing  Tree,  and  the  YelloAV 
Water,  are  related  in  the  "  Story  of 
the  Sisters  Avho  envied  their  younger 
Sister,"  in  the  "Arabian  Nights'  En- 
tertainments." Of  these  curiosities, 
the  first  was  a  bird,  which  could  not 
only  talk  and  reason  like  human 
beings,  but  could  call  all  the  singing- 
birds  in  his  neighborhood  to  come 
and  join  in  his  song;  the  second  was 
a  tree,  of  which  the  leaves  were  so 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations 


PAR 


283 


PAR 


many  mouths,  that  formod  a  most 
harmonious  concert;  tlic  tliird  was  a 
kind  of  water,  a  small  (luantity  ot 
which,  beini^  put  into  a  basin,  wouhl 
fill  it,  and  form  a  beautiful  fountain, 
which  would  continually  Jtlay  witli- 
out  overriowin<;.  I'arizade,  or  Pari- 
zadeh, —  the  Fan'sutis  of  the  Greeks, 
—  signifies  born  of  a.  fairy. 

In  truth,  much  of  Bacon's  life  was  passed  in 
a  visionary  world  .  .  .  amidst  buildings  more 
sumptuous  than  the  palace  of  Aladdin,  foun- 
tains mon'  wonderful  than  the  golden  water 
of  I'arizade.  Macaulaij. 

Par'ley,  Peter.  An  assumed  name 
under  which  Samuel  Griswold  Good- 
rich (17;)3-18iU),  an  American  writ- 
er, published  a  series  of  very  popular 
books  for  the  young. 

Parliament,  Addle.  See  Addle 
Pakliament. 

Parliament,  Barebone's.  See  Bare- 
bone's  Pakliajient. 

Parliament,  Devils'.  See  Devils' 
Parliament. 

Parliament,  Drunken.  See  Drunk- 
en Parliament. 

Parliament,  Long.  See  Long  Par- 
liament. 

Parliament,  Mad.  See  Mad  Par- 
liament. 

Parliament,  Rump.  See  Rump 
Parliament. 

Parliament,  Unlearned.  See  Par- 
liament OF  Dunces. 

Parliament,  Useless.  See  Useless 
Parliament. 

Parliament,  "Wonderful.  See  Won- 
deuful  Parliament. 

Parliament  of  Dunces.  [Lat.  Par- 
llninentum  Iwloctoruin.^  {^^ii;i-  Hist.) 
A  name  given  to  a  Parliament  con- 
vened by  Henry  IV".  at  Coventry,  in 
"Warwickshire  (1404),  because  law- 
yers were  excluded  from  it. 

Par-nas'sus.  [Gr.  naprao-o?,  or  iiap- 
vartro?.]  A  lofty  mountain  of  Phocis 
in  Greece,  sacred  to  Apollo  and  the 
Muses.  At  its  base  w^ere  the  Casta- 
lian  spring  and  the  city  of  Delphi. 

P5-rol16s.  A  boastful  and  cowardly 
follower  of  Bertram  in  Shakespeare's 
"All's  Well  that  Ends  Well;"  so 
consummate    in    baseness,   that    we 


regard  him  with  contemptnons  com- 
placency :  "  he  hath  outvillained  vil- 
hiinv  so  far,  that  the  rarity  redeems 
him. 

4®"  "  The  braggart  ParolU's,  who«e 
name  signifies  words^  as  though  lie  spoke 
nothing  else,  scarcely  utters  a  sunteni-« 
that  is  not  rich  with  ideas  ;  jet  his  weak- 
ness and  self-committals  hang  over  them 
all  like  a  sneaking  infection,  and  hinder 
our  laughter  from  becoming  respectful. 
The  scene  in  which  he  is  taken  blindfold 
among  his  old  acquaintances,  and  so  led 
to  vilify  their  characters  under  the  im- 
pression that  he  is  gratifying  their  ene- 
mies, is  almost  as  good  as  the  screen 
scene  in  the  '  School  for  Scandal.'  " 

Leigh  Hunt. 
Rust,  sword  ;  cool,    blushes  ;  and,   Varolles, 

live 
Safest  in  shame  ;    being  fooled,  by  fooling 

thrive.  Shak. 

There  was  Parollcs,  too,  the  legal  bully. 

JJi/ron. 

He  [Dr.  Samuel  Parr]  was  a  mere  Parollea 

in  a  pedagogue's  wig.        Nodes  Amhrosiance. 

Parricide,  The  Beautiful.  See 
Beautiful  Parricide. 

Parsons'  Emperor.  [Ger.  Pfiffen^ 
Kaiser.]  A  nickname  given  to 
Charles  IV.  of  Moravia,  who,  at  the 
instigation  of  the  pope,  —  Clement 
VI.,  —  was  set  up  as  a  competitor  of 
Louis  IV.,  the  actual  reigning  em- 
peror of  Germany. 

Par-the'ni-a.  The  mistress  of  Arga- 
lus,  in  Sir  Philip  Sidney's  "  Arcadia." 

She  thought  .  .  .  that  Alice  gave  him  a 
little  more  encouragement  than  I'arthenia 
would  have  afforded  to  any  such  Jack-a- 
dandy,  in  the  absence  of  Argalus. 

Sir  W.  Scolt. 

Par-then'o-pe.  [Gr.  iiapBevonr].']  (  dr. 
if  Rom.  Mijili.)  One  of  the  three 
Sirens.  She  became  enamored  of 
Ulysses,  and,  in  her  grief  at  not 
winning  him,  threw  herself  into  the 
sea,  and  was  cast  up  on  the  shore 
where  Naples  afterward  stood,  for 
which  reason  that  city  was  originally 
called  by  her  name. 

Par'ting-t6n,  Mrs.  An  imaginary 
old  lady  Avhose  laughable  sayings 
have  been  recorded  by  the  American 
humorist,  B.  P.  Shillaber.  She  is 
distinguished,  like  Smollett's  Tahiti. a 
Bramble  and  Sheridan's  j\Irs.  Mala- 
prop,  for  her  amusing  affectation  and 
misuse  of  learned  words. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


PAR 


284 


PAT 


The  namfi  of  this  cbaractpr  Peema 
to  have  bfcn  sujif^esU-d  by  tlie  following 
anecdote  which  Syduey  Smith  related  in 
a  speech  delivered  by  him  at  Tauutou 
(Eus;.).  iu  1831,  and  whicli  has  become 
somewhat  celebrated  :  '"I  do  not  mean 
to  be  disrespectful ;  but  the  attempt  of 
the  Lords  to  stop  the  progress  of  reform 
reminds  nie  very  forcibly  of  the  great 
Btorm  of  Sidmouth,  and  tin;  conduct  of 
the  excellent  Mrs.  Partington  on  that 
occasion.  In  the  winter  of  1824,  there 
set  in  a  great  flood  upon  that  town  ;  the 
tide  roj<e  to  an  incredible  height,  the 
I  waves  rushed  in  upon  the  houses,  and 
every  thing  was  threatened  with  destruc- 
tion. In  the  midst  of  this  sublime  storm, 
Dame  Partington,  who  lived  upon  the 
beach,  was  seen  at  the  door  of  her  house, 
with  mop  and  pattens,  trundling  her 
mop,  and  squeezing  out  the  sea-water, 
and  vigorously  pushing  away  the  Atlan- 
tic Ocean.  The  Atlantic  was  roused. 
Mrs.  Partington's  spirit  was  up.  But  I 
need  not  tell  jou  that  the  contest  was 
unequal.  The  Atlantic  Ocean  beat  Mrs. 
Partington.  She  was  excellent  at  a  slop 
or  a  puddle,  but  she  should  not  have 
meddled  with  a  tempest." 

Partridge.  The  attendant  of  Tom 
Jones,  in  Fieldinsc's  novel,  '■  The  His- 
tory of  Tom  Jones,  a  Foundling  ;  " 
noted  for  his  fidelity,  shrewdness, 
and  child-like  simplicity, 

Parvati  (pSr'vS-tee').  [Sansk.,  moun- 
tain-born.]  (Hindu  Myt/i.)  The 
daughter  of  the  mountain  Himalaya; 
one  of  the  names  by  which  the  god- 
dess Durga  is  usually  called.       See 

DuiiGA. 

Pa-siph'a-e.  [Gr.  naa-i(f)ar).]  ( Gr.  cf 
Ito}n.  Mijth.)  A  daughter  of  Helios, 
or  Sol  (the  sun),  and  Terse;  sister  of 
Circe,  wife  of  Minos,  and  mother  of 
Pha?dra,  Ariadne,  and  Androgens, 
and  also  of  the  Minotaur  by  a  beau- 
tiful bull,  for  which  Venus,  out  of 
hatred,  had  inspired  her  with  a  violent 
passion.     See  Minotaur. 

Pas'quin  (pasMvwin).  [It.  Pasguino.] 
1.  A  Roman  cobbler  of  the  latter 
half  of  the  lifteenth  century,  whose 
shop  stood  in  the  immediate  neigh- 
borhood of  the  Braschi  palace,  near 
the  Piazza  Xavona.  Pasquin  was 
notorious  for  making  caustic  remarks, 
and  by  degrees  every  Intter  saying 
current  in  the  city  became  attributed 
to  him  or  liis  workmen.     After  his 


death,  a  mutilated  statue,  -which  had 
long  lain  half  imbedded  in  the  ground 
near  Ins  shop,  was  dug  out  and  set 
up  in  the  vicinity,  upon  which  the 
populace  declareil  that  the  cobbler 
liad  come  to  lile  again,  and  called 
the  torso  by  his  name.  Thenceforth 
a  custom  arose  of  attaching  to  it 
stinging  epigrams  or  satirical  verses, 
often  directed  against  the  pope  and 
cardinals,  and  other  persons  in  high 
public  station.  No  prohibitions  or 
penalties  could  put  a  stop  to  the  prac- 
tice; and  even  now,  after  the  lapse 
of  more  than  four  centuries,  the  statue 
pursues  his  ancient  calling  with  un- 
diminished vigor. 

2.  (Tony,  or  Antony.)  A  nom 
de  plume  of  John  Williams,  author 
of  loads  of  writing  in  prose  and  verse. 
See  Della  Cklsca.ns. 

Passamonte,  Gines  de.  See  Gines 
DE  Pas-samonte. 

PEsse'treul.  The  name  of  Sir  Tris- 
tram's horse.     See  Tkistkam,  Sik. 

Patch,ed-up  Peace.  [Fr.  La  P  nx 
Fourree.]  (Fr.  IJisi.)  1.  The  name 
given  to  a  treaty  of  peace  between 
the  Duke  of  Orleans  and  John  of 
Burgundy,  in  1409. 

2.  [Called  also  Ill-grounded  Pence 
and  Lame  and  Fnaiable  Peace.1  The 
name  of  a  treaty  between  Charles 
IX.  and  the  Huguenots,  concluded  at 
Longjumeau,  in  15C8.  It  was  so 
called  because  it  was  made  very  sud- 
denly, and  because  neither  of  the  par- 
ties to  it  had  any  confidence  in  the 
other. 

Patelin  (pat'la,"',  G2).  The  hero  of 
an  ancient  French  comedy,  entitled 
"  L'Avocat  Patelin,"  reproduced  by 
Brueys,  in  170G.  B}-  his  address  aiul 
cunning  he  succeeds  in  obtaining  six 
ells  of  cloth  from  a  merchant.  The 
name  has  passed  into  popular  use  to 
designate  a  subtle  and  crafty  man, 
who,  by  tiattery  and  insinuating  arts, 
entices  others  to  the  accomplishment 
of  his  designs. 

Path-flnder,  The.  A  title  popularly 
given  to  Major-General  John  Charles 
Fremont  (b.  ISl^J),  who  conducted 
four  ex])loring  expeditions  across  the 
Rockv  Mountains. 


B^"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanation^ 


PAT 


285 


PEA 


Patient  Griselda,  or  Qrissell.    See 

(Jkiselda,  Thk  Patient. 
Patient  Helena.    See  Helena,  The 

I'ATIKNT. 

Patriarch  of  Dorchester.  An  appel- 
lation ^ivcn  to  -lolin  White,  of  Dor- 
eliester,  Kn^huul,  a  j)nritan  divine, 
highly  esteemed  tor  his  eloquence 
and  piety.   He  died  in  1G48,  aged  74. 

Pa-tro'clus.  [Gr.  iiarpoKAos.]  (  6'/-.  (/ 
Jiom.  Myth.)  One  of  the  Grecian 
chiefs  in  the  Trojan  war,  and  the 
constant  companion  and  friend  of 
Achilles.  Ue  one  day  put  on  the 
armor  of  Achilles,  and  slew  many  of 
the  Trojans;  but,  being  struck  by 
Apollo,  he  became  senseless,  and  in 
that  state  was  killed  by  Euphorbus 
and  Hector.     See  Hectok. 

Pat'tie-son,  Peter  (-sn).  An  imag- 
inary assistant  teacher  at  Gander- 
clench,  and  the  feigned  author  of 
Scott's  "■  Tales  of  My  Landlord," 
which  were  represented  as  having 
been  published  posthumously  by  his 
pedagogue  superior,  Jedediah  Cleish- 
botham. 

Paul.     See  Yirginie. 

Pau-li'na.  Wife  of  Antigonus,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Winter's  Tale." 

j6®=  "  She  is  a  character  strongly 
drawn  from  real  and  common  life,  —  a 
clever,  generous,  strong-minded,  warm- 
hearted woman,  fearless  in  asserting  the 
truth,  firm  in  her  sense  of  right,  enthu- 
siastic in  all  her  affections ;  quick  in 
thought,  resolute  in  word,  and  energetic 
in  action  ;  but  heedless,  hot-tempered, 
impatient ;  loud,  bold,  voluble,  and  tur- 
bulent of  tongue  ;  regardless  of  the  feel- 
ings of  those  for  whom  she  would  sacri- 
fice her  life,  and  injuring,  from  excess  of 
zeal,  those  whom  she  most  wishes  to 
serve.  ■'  Mrs.  Jameson. 

^^-vo'ni-a.  A  name  given  in  ancient 
maps  t(j  a  tract  of  country  extending 
from  about  Iloboken  to  Amboy,  in 
what  is  now  the  State  of  New  Jersey. 

Pax.  (Eom.  JfyfJi.)  A  deified  person- 
ification of  peace;  the  same  as  the 
Irene  of  the  Greeks. 

Pays  de  Sapience.  See  Land  op 
Wisdom. 

Peach'um.  A  character  in  Gay's 
"  Beggar's  Opera,"  represented  as  a 
pimp  and  a  receiver  of  stolen  prop- 


erty, and  as  making  his  house  a 
re.sort  tor  tliieves,  pickpockets,  and 
villains  of  all  !>orts.     See  Lockit. 

No  J'taclntm  it  is,  or  young  I^ockit, 
That  liflos  my  i'nh  with  a  snatcli; 

Alas!   1  must  jiick  my  <iwii  iiockct, 
And  make  gravy-soup  of  my  watch. 

Jlood. 

Peach'um,  Mrs.  A  character  in  (iay's 
"Beggar's  Opera;"  witie  of  I'each- 
mn.     See  svpra. 

The  aiitliors  of  this  scheme  [the  Kansas 
usurjjation]  have  scaicelv  shown  the  ordinary 
cunning  of  njgucs,  which  conceals  its  ulterior 
purposes.  Disdaining  the  advice  of  J//-». 
J'eac/ium  to  her  daughter  Polly,  to  he  "some- 
wliat  nice "  in  her  deviations  from  virtue, 
they  have  advanced  bravely  and  flagrantly  to 
their  nefarious  object.  Atlnntic  JJonihly. 

Peach'um,  Polly.  A  celebrated  char^ 
acter  in  Gay's  "Beggar's  Opera;" 
daughter  of  Peachum.  She  is  repre- 
sented as  having  great  beauty,  and 
as  preserving,  luispotted,  the  purity 
of  her  character,  though  living  among 
the  basest  persons. 

Peasant  Bard.  A  descriptive  epithet 
conferred  upon  Robert  Burns,  the 
great  lyric  poet  oi'  Scotland. 

Peasant  of  the  Danube.  A  title 
given  to  Louis  Legendre  (1756-1797), 
member  of  the  Frencli  National  Con- 
vention, who  took  an  active  part  in 
all  the  events  of  the  Bevolution.  His 
wild  eloquence  was  the  occasion  of 
this  surname  being  given  him. 

Peasant  Poet  of  Northampton- 
shire. A  name  given  to  John  Clare 
(179.3-1804),  an  English  poet  of  hum- 
ble origin,  Avhose  remarkable  powers 
of  description  brought  him  into  pub- 
lic notice  and  secured  the  public  fa- 
vor. 

Ifi'^  "  The  instance  before  us  is.  per- 
haps, one  of  the  most  striking  of  patient 
and  persevering  talent  existing  and  en- 
during ia  the  most  forlorn  and  seemingly 
hopeless  condition  that  literature  has  at 
any  time  exhibited.'"        Lund.  Qti.  Rev. 

Peasants'  War.  [Ger.  Bauern  Krieg.'] 
{Ger.  Hist.)  The  name  given  to  a 
revolt  of  the  German  peasantry  in 
Swabia  and  Franeonia,  and  subse- 
quently in  Saxony,  Thuringia,  and 
Alsace,  occasioned  by  the  increasing 
oppression  and  cruelty  of  the  nobles 
and  clergy.  It  broke  out  several 
different  times,  from  about  1500  to 
1525,   in    which  latter  vear  it  was 


tnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii- 


PEC 


286 


PEL 


finally  terminated,  after  upwards  of 
150,U00  livt's  liad  been  lost.  Tlie  de- 
feated insur^^ents  not  only  tailed  to 
obtain  relief  irom  their  feudal  burdens, 
but  their  h)t  became  in  many  respects 
harder  tlian  before. 

Pecksniff.  A  hypocrite  in  Dickens's 
"  Martin  Chuzzlewit,"  "  so  thor- 
out(hly  impref:;nated  with  the  spirit 
of  falsehood  that  lie  is  moral  even  in 
drunkeimess,  and  canting  even  in 
shame  and  discovery." 

Pedro,  Don.     See  Day  Pedro. 

Pee'bles,  Peter  (pe'blz).  A  charac- 
ter in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of 
'^  Kedgauntlet;"  represented  as  vain, 
litijjfious,  hard-hearted,  credulous,  a 
liar,  a  drunkard,  and  a  pauper. 

In  one  point  of  view,  there  is  nothing  more 
Hogartliiun  comic  tlian  this  lonj;  I'eter- Peebles 
"  gtinginj;  plea"  of  "  M.irqiiis  Alirabeau  ver- 
sus Nature  :in(l  others;  "yet,  in  adeepcr  point 
of  view,  it  is  but  too  serious.  Carhjle. 

Peelers.  The  uniformed  constabida- 
ry  of  Ireland  appointed  under  the 
"Peace  Preservatiim  Act"  of  1814, 
proposed  by  Sir  Robert  Peel.  The 
name  was  subsequently  given  to  the 
new  police  of  England,  who  were, 
also,  vulgarly  called  "  Bobbies,"  af- 
ter Sir  Robert. 

Peeping  Tom  of  Cov'en-try.  An 
appellation  given  to  a  person  of  un- 
governable inquisitiveness. 

j8®=  "  The  Countess  Godiva,  bearing 
an  extriordinary  Jiiroctioii  to  this  place 
[Ooveutry],  often  and  earnestly  besouglit 
her  husijand  [Leofric,  Earl  of  Mercia], 
that,  for  the  love  of  God  and  the  blessed 
Virgin,  he  would  free  it  fro  n  that  griev- 
ous servitude  whereunto  it  was  subject ; 
but  he,  rebuking  her  for  importuning 
him  in  a  matter  so  inconsistent  with 
his  profit,  commanded  that  she  should 
thenceforth  forbeir  to  move  therein  ;  yet 
she,  out  of  her  womanish  pertinacity, 
continued  to  solicit  him  ;  insomuch  that; 
he  told  her  [a.  d.  1057]  if  she  would  ride 
on  horseback,  naked,  from  one  end  of 
the  town  to  the  other,  in  the  sight  of  all 
the  people,  he  would  grant  her  request. 
AVhereunto  she  answered,  '  T?iit  will  you 
give  me  leave  so  to  do  > '  And  he  reply- 
ing, '  Yes,'  the  noble  lady,  upon  an  ap- 
pointed day.  got  on  horseback,  naked, 
with  her  hair  loose,  so  that  it  covered  all 
her  body  but  her  legs,  and  thus  perform- 
ing the  journey,  returned  with  joy  to  her 
husband,  who  therefore  granted  to  the 


inhabitants  a  charter  of  freedom,  which 

iauu unity  1  rather  conceive  to  have  beeu 
a  kind  of  manumission  from  some  . 
servile  tenure,  wtiereby  they  then  held 
what  they  had  under  tuis  great  earl,  than 
only  a  freedom  from  all  manner  of  toll, 
except  horses,  as  Knighton  atftrms." 
Dug(Jalf.  It  is  said  by  llapiu,  that  the 
countess,  previous  to  her  riding,  com- 
manded all  persons  to  keep  within  doors 
and  from  their  windows  on  pain  of  death  ; 
but,  notwitlistanding  this  severe  penalty, 
there  was  one  person  who  could  not  for. 
bear  giving  a  look,  out  of  curiosity  ;  buv 
it  cost  him  his  life.  From  this  circum- 
stance originated  the  familiar  epithet  of 
"  I'eeping  Tom  of  Coventry."  To  com- 
memorate tlie  event,  the  mayor  and  cor- 
poration periodically  walk  in  procession 
through  tlie  town,  accompanied  by  a 
female  on  horseback,  clad  in  a  linen  dress 
closely  fitted  to  her  limbs.  A  figure,  com- 
memorative of  the  peeper,  has  long  been 
preserved  in  Coventry,  and  is  now  in- 
serted in  the  niche  of  a  new  house  com- 
municating with  the  High  Street.  Ten- 
nyson has  versified  the  story  of  the  Count- 
ess a  m1  Peeping  Tom  in  his  poem  entitled 
"  Godiva." 

Peers,  The  Twelve.  See  Twelve 
Peehs. 

Peg-a-Lantern.  Another  name  for 
A\'ill-with-the-Wisp,  or  Jack-with- 
the-Lantern. 

Peg-a^Ram'sey.  The  heroine  of  an 
old  song,  having  this  name  for  its 
title,  which  is  alluded  to  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Twelfth  Night,"  a.  ii.,  sc.  3. 
Percy  ^ays  it  was  an  indecent  ballad. 
[Written  also  P  e  g  g  y  K  a  m  s  e  y.] 

He  [James  I]  h.ad  Ijeen  much  struck  with 
the  beauty  and  embarrassment  of  the  i)retty 
reg-a-Rumsey,  as  he  called  her,  when  he  first 
saw  her.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Peg'a-sus.  [Gr.  njjYao-og.]  ( Gr.  4 
Rom.  Myih.)  A  winged  horse  which 
sprung  from  the  blood  of  Medusa, 
and  belonged  to  Apollo  and  the 
!Muses.  From  a  stroke  of  his  hoof 
the  fountain  lIii)pocrene  burst  tbrth 
on  ]\rount  Helicon.  He  was  caught 
by  Pellerophon,  who  destroyed  the 
Chima-ra  with  his  aid.  But  when 
Bellerophon  attemi)ted  to  ride  to 
heaven  on  his  back,  he  threw  him 
off,  and  ascended  alone  to  the  skies, 
Avhere  he  was  changed  into  a  constel- 
lation. 

Peleus.  [Gr.  iTrjAev'?.]  (  C,r.  (f-  Rom. 
Myth.)     A  king  of  Thessaly,  son  of 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Sclieme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  ExplanationSi 


PEL 


287 


PEN 


^Eacus,  husband  of  Thetis,  father  of 
Achilles,  and  a  sharer  iu  the  Argo- 
nautic  expedition. 

Pe-li'dds.  [Gr.  ri^AeiSr/?.]  {Or.  cf 
Uoiii.  Mtjtli.)  A  patronymic  of 
Achilles,  the  son  of  Peleus. 

Pe'li-on.  [Gr.  \U)\iqv.']  A  high  moun- 
tain in  1  hessaly.     See  OssA. 

f  el'le-as.  Sir.  A  very  valorous  knight 
of  Arthur  s  Hound  Table.  In  "The 
Faery  Queen,"  he  is  one  of  those  Avho 
pursue  "  the  blatant  beast,"  when, 
after  iiaving  been  conquered  and 
chained  up  bv  Sir  Calidore,  it  breaks 
its  iron  chain,  and  again  ranges 
through  the  world. 

Fairy  damLels,  met  in  forests  wide 
By  knijihts  of  1/  igres,  or  of  Lj-ones, 
Lancelot,  or  I-eUeas,  or  Pelleiiore.      Milton. 

Pel'le-nore,  King.  A  celebrated 
character  in  the  old  romance  of 
"Morte  d'Arthu/." 

PeTops.  [Gr.  iTeAaji//.]  (  Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Mijtlt.)  A  Phrygian  prince,  grandson 
of  Jupiter,  and  sui  of  Tantalus.  He 
was  slain,  and  siived  up  before  the 
gods  by  his  own  lather,  Avho  wished 
to  test  their  omniscience.  They  were 
not  deceived,  howe\  er,  and  would  not 
touch  the  horrible  food;  but  Ceres, 
absorbed  in  grief  for  Ihe  loss  of  Pros- 
erpine, tasted  of  the  shoulder  before 
she  discovered  what  it  was.  Jupiter 
restored  Pelops  to  life,  and  replaced 
his  shoulder  with  one  of  ivory. 

Pe-na'tes.  {Rom.  Myth.)  Guardian 
deities  of  the  househofd,  and  of  the 
State  regarded  as  a  larger  liouschold 
formed  by  the  union  ol  niany  smaller 
ones.  They  were  similar  to,  or  iden- 
tical with,  the  Lares.     See  Lares. 

Pen-den'nis,  Arthur.  The  hero  of 
Thackeray's  satirical  romance  en- 
titled "  The  History  of  Pendennis, 
his  Fortunes  and  Misfortunes;"  a 
young  man  of  warm  feelings  and 
lively  intellect,  self- conceited  and 
.selfish,  with  no  attractive  points  of 
character  but  a  sense  of  honor  and  a 
capacity  for  love. 

Pen-den'nis,  Major.  A  gentleman- 
like parasite,  or  rather  tuft-hunter, 
in  Thackeray's  "  History  of  Penden- 
nis," who  fawns  upon  his  patrons  for 


the  sake  of  being  received  into  their 
society. 
Pen-drag'on.  A  son  of  Constans. 
and  his  successor  on  the  throne  ot 
Britain,  according  to  legendary  his- 
torians; also,  a  surname  given,  alter 
the  death  of  this  king,  to  L'ther,  an- 
other son  of  Constans,  and  the  father 
of  King  Arthur.  See  Constans  and 
Uther. 

For  onco  I  read 
That  stout  Pendragon  in  liis  litter  sick 
Came  to  the  lield  and  vanquished  his  foes. 

Shak. 

Pe-nel'o-pe.  [Gr.  nTji/eAoTrrj.]  {Gr. 
tj'-  Rom.  Mijth.)  A  celebrated  Gre- 
cian princess,  wife  of  Ulysses,  and 
mother  of  Telemachus,  famed  for  her 
chastity  and  constancy  during  the 
long  absence  of  her  husband.  Being 
greatly  annoyed  by  many  importu- 
nate suitors,  she  put  them  off  for  a 
time  by  declaring  that  she  could  not 
decide  between  them  until  she  had 
tinished  weaving  a  shroud  for  her 
aged  father-in-law ;  and,  to  protract 
the  time,  she  pulled  out  by  night 
what  she  had  woven  during  the  day. 
The  stratagem  Avas  at  length  discov- 
ered; but  Ulysses  happened  to  return 
in  season  to  prevent  the  unpleasant 
consequences  that  might  otherwise 
have  ensued. 

Peninsular  State.  The  State  of 
Florida;  —  popularly  so  called  from 
its  shape. 

Peninsular  "War.  ( Hist. )  The  name 
given  to  the  war  carried  on  in  Portu- 
gal and  Spain  by  the  English  forces 
under  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley  against 
the  invading  armies  of  Napoleon  L, 
between  18U8  and  1812. 

Pennsylvania  Farmer.  A  surname 
given  to  Joini  Dickinson  (1732-1808), 
an  American  statesman  and  author, 
and  a  citizen  of  Pennsylvania.  In 
the  year  17G8,  he  published  his  "  Let- 
ters from  a  Peinisylvania  Farmer  to 
the  Inhabitants  of  the  British  Colo- 
nies." These  were  republished  in 
London,  with  a  preface  by  Dr.  Frank- 
lin, and  were  subsequently  translated 
into  Freiuli,  and  published  in  Paris. 

Pen-tap'o-lin  {Sp.  pron.  pen-t5-po- 
leenO  The  leader  of  one  of  two 
vast  hostile  armies   into  which   the 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


PEN 


288 


PER 


distempered  imagination  of  Don 
Quixote  (.see  Don  Qi^'i-'^o'J'^O  trans- 
furniL'd  two  large  tioclvs  of  sheep, 
■vvhicii,  from  a  distance,  he  saw  ap- 
pruaeliing  each  oiiicr  on  a  wide  and 
dusty  i)laiii.  Tliis  jjhantom  warrior, 
according  to  tlie  veracious  Don,  was 
the  Clnistian  king  of  the  Garaman- 
tians,  suriiamcd  "'  Of  the  Naked 
Ann,"  because  he  always  entered 
into  battle  with  his  right  arm  bare. 
His  beautiful  daughter  had  been  de- 
manded in  marriage  by  Alitanfaron, 
emperor  of  the  great  isle  of  Tapro- 
bana,  Avho  was  a  strong  pagan.  But 
as  Peiitapolin  Avould  not  accept  such 
a  misbeliever  for  a  son-in-law,  Ali- 
tanfaron resolved  to  win  the  lady  by 
means  of  the  sword ;  and  the  armies 
of  the  hostile  chiefs  were  upon  the 
point  of  engaging  each  other  when 
the  Don  desci-ied  them. 

Not  Siincho,  when  his  master  interrupted 
his  account  of  the  combatants  of  J'entapoUn 
with  the  naked  arm  to  advance  in  pc-son  to 
the  charfje  of  the  floclc  of  sheep,  stood  more 
confounded  than  Oldbuck  at  tliis  sudden 
escapade  of  liis  nephew.  Sir  JV.  Scott. 

Pen-thes'i-le'a.        [Gr.     Uev9eai\eia.] 

{Gr,  c/-  Earn.  [Uyth.)     A  queen  of  the 

Amazons,   who   fought    against   the 

Greeks  during  the  Trojan  war,  and 

was  slain  by  Achilles. 

Had  I  not  unfortunately,  by  the  earnestness 
of  my  description,  awakened  the  jenlousy  of 
his  I'enthesUea  of  a  countess,  he  had  forgotten 
the  crusade  and  all  belonging  to  it. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Pen'theus.  [Gr.  nevfleu?.]  {Gr.  cf 
Rom.  }[Dt]i.)  A  king  of  Thebes, 
who,  for  treating  with  contempt  the 
rites  of  Bacchus,  Avas  torn  in  pieces 
by  his  mother  and  aunts,  they  being 
at  the  time  under  the  intiuence  of  the 
god. 

A  man  hunted  hv  the  devils  thnt  dwell  un- 
chained within  himself;  like  Pcvtfwii.f  by  the 
Micnads;  like  Actacon  by  his  own  dogs. 

Carlyle. 

People,  Man  of  the.  See  Man  of 
TIIK  Pkoi'le. 

Pepper,  K.  N.  [That  is,  Cayenne 
Pepper.]  A  7iom  dc  plume  of  James 
M.  Morris,  a  humorous  American 
writer  of  the  present  day. 

Perce'for-est  (4).  The  title  of  an  old 
romance  of  chivalry,  and  the  name 
of  its  hero,  a  knight  of  the  Round 
Table.     An  analysis  of  the  romance 


is  given  in  Dunlop's  "History  (f 
Hction." 

Per'ce-vai  (4).  The  hero  of  an  old  ro- 
maiici!  of  chivalry  of  the  .same  name, 
celebrated  lor  his  adventures  in  search 
of  the  sangreal. 

Per'ci-net  (4).     See  Gkaciosa. 

Per'dl-ta  (4).  1.  Daughter  of  Leontes, 
king  of  Sicilia,  and  of  Hermione,  his 
queen,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Winter's 
Tale;  "  in  love  Avith  Horizel. 

^^ir  ''  The  qualitie.s  which  impart  to 
Perdita  lier  distinct  individuality  are  the 
beautiful  comhinatiou  of  the  pa.«toral 
•with  the  elegant,  of  simplicity  with  ele- 
vation, of  spirit  with  sweetness." 

Mrs.  Jameson. 

2.  Under  this  name  the  beautiful 
and  unfortunate  Mrs.  ]Mar\-  (Darby) 
Kobinson  (1758-1800),  who"^  fell  a  vic- 
tim to  the  licenti(jusness  of  the  Prince 
of  Wales,  —  afterward  George  IV., — 
was  known  at  the  time  of  her  con- 
nection with  hiin.  She  first  attracted 
his  attention  while  playing  the  part 
of  Perdita  in  the  "  Winter's  Tale." 
The  prince  was  nicknamed  Florizel. 

Pere  de  la  Pens6e  (per  du  la  pon'- 
sa',  62).  See  Fatiiek  Thoughtful. 

Pere  Duchesne,  Le  (h.i  per  dii'shSn', 
34).  A  by-name  given  to  Jacques 
Ren^  Ilebert  (1755-1794),  a  brutal 
and  profligate  Jacobin  leader  of  the 
French  Revolution,  from  the  name  of 
a  newspaper  which  he  edited. 

Perez,  Michael.  See  Copper  Cap- 
tain. 

Peri  Banou.     See  Pakibanou. 

Pe'ri-on  of  Gaul  (9).  A  king-  of 
Wales  (Gaula)  in  the  old  romance  of 
"Amadis  de  Gaul."  See  Amadis 
i)E  Gaul. 

Pernelle,  Mine,  (ma'dani'  pef'neP). 
A  scolding  old  grandmother  in  Mo- 
liere's  "  Tartutfe." 

PSr^o-nella.  [Fr.  Peronelle,  a  cor- 
ruption of  Pctnmelle,  from  Pierre, 
Peter.  Petrondle  was  a  character  in 
the  ancient  mysteries.]  The  subject 
of  a  fairy  tale,  represented  as  a  pretty 
country  lass,  who,  at  the  otl'er  of  a 
fairy,  changes  place  with  an  old  and 
decrepit  (nieen,aiHl  receives  the  hom- 
age paid  to  rank  and  wealth,  but  af» 


OS-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  ExplanationSp 


PER 


289 


PHA 


terward  gladly  resumes  her  beauty 
auil  ra.ijfs. 

Perpetual  Edict.  [Lat.  Edictum 
Ptipttuuin.]  {Rnm.  Ilist.)  A  de- 
cree issued  by  the  emperor  ^Elius 
Hadrianus  (f(J-138),  promulgating 
and  embodying  a  tixed  eode  ot  laws, 
which  was'  drawn  up  by  the  jurist 
Salvius  Julian  us. 

Perrin,  Dandin.     See  Dandin,  Per- 

RIN. 

Per-seph'o-ne.  [Gr.  Uepaef^ovri.^ 
(M(jfh.)  The  Greek  name  of  Pros- 
erpine.    See  Proserpink. 

Per'seus  (4).  [Gr.  Ilepo-eu?.]  {Gr.  (f 
Bom.  Mijtli.)  The  son  of  Jupiter  and 
Daiiae,  who,  being  furnished  by 
INIercury  with  a  sickle-shaped  sword, 
bj'  Minerva  with  a  mirror,  and  by 
the  nymphs  with  winged  sandals, 
a  bag,  and  a  helmet  of  invisibility, 
vantiuished  the  Gorgons  (see  Goit- 
Goxs),  and  armed  himself  with 
Medusa's  head,  by  means  of  which 
he  turned  into  stone  the  sea-monster 
to  whom  Andromeda  was  exposed, 
besides  performing  many  other  ex- 
ploits. After  death,  he  was  placed 
among  the  stars  as  a  constellation. 

Persian  Anacreon.  See  Axacreon 
OF  Persia. 

Perth,  Fair  Maid  of.  See  Fair 
Maid  of  Perth. 

P6taud.     See  King  Petaud. 

Peter.      1.    (Lord.)    The    name    by 
which  Swift  designates  the  pope  in 
his  "  Tale  of  a  Tub." 
2.  See  Morris,  Peter. 

Pe'tfr-loo,  Field  of.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  in  England  to  tlie  scene 
of  an  attack  made  by  the  military, 
acting  under  the  orders  of  the  magis- 
trates, upon  a  reform  meeting,  held 
in  St.  Peter's  Field,  at  Manchester, 
on  the  16th  of  August,  1810,  which 
was  attended  l)y  6  ),000  persons,  of 
■whom  only  eiglit  were  killed,  though 
many  were  wounded;  a  word  formed 
in  burlesque  imitation  of  Wdterbio. 

Battles  and  bloodshed,  September  Mas- 
sacrea,  Bridgres  of  Lodi,  retreats  of  Moscow, 
Watcrloos,  Prfrrlnnv,  ten-pound  franonises, 
tar-barrels,  and  iriiillotines.  Oirh/le. 

Peter  the  "Wnd  Boy.  See  Wild 
Boy,  The. 


Pe'to.  A  companion  of  Sir  John  Fal- 
stad",  in  the  birst  and  Second  Parta 
of  Shakespeare's  "  King  Henry  IV." 

Petrified  City.  A  name  given  to 
Ishmonie,  in  Up[)er  l'>gypt,  on  ac- 
count of  a  great  number  of  statues 
of  men,  women,  children,  and  ani- 
mals, wliich  are  said  to  be  seen  there 
at  this  day,  and  which,  according  to 
the  popular  superstition,  were  once 
animated  beings,  but  were  miracu- 
lously changed  into  stone  in  all  the 
various  postures  and  attitudes  which 
were  assumed  by  them  at  the  instant 
of  their  supposed  transubstantiation. 
Allusions  to  this  city  occur  in  several 
English  writers.  The  story  is  said  to 
have  been  first  mentioned  by  Kir- 
cher,  in  his  "MundusSubterraneus." 

Pe-tru'chi-o.  A  gentleman  of  Verona, 
in    Shakespeare's   "  Taming  of    the 
Shrew." 
j^^  "  Petruchio  is  a  madman  in  his 

senses,  a  very  honest  fellow,  who  hardly 
speaks  a  word  of  truth,  and  sueceeds  in 
all  his  tricks  and  impostures.  He  acts 
his  assumed  character  to  the  life,  with 
the  most  fantastical  extravagance,  with 
untired  animal  spirits,  and  without  a 
particle  of  ill-humor  from  beginning  to 
end."'  Hazlitt.  '•  He  is  a  fine,  hearty 
compound  of  bodily  and  mental  vigor, 
adorned  by  wit,  spirits,  and  good-nature." 
Leigh  Hunt. 

Phae'dra.  [Gr.  ^aiSpa.]  (  Gr.  if  Rom. 
}[yth.)  A  daughter  of  Minos,  king 
of  Crete,  a  sister  of  Ariadne,  and  the 
wife  of  Theseus.     See  Hippolytus. 

Pha'e-t6n.  [Gr.  ^aiOoiu.,  the  shining.] 
{Gr.  ()'•  Rom.  Mijth.)  A  son  of  He- 
lios, or  Sol  (the  sun),  and  Clymene, 
who  asked  and  obtained  leave  to 
drive  his  father's  chariot  for  one  day, 
as  a  proof  of  his  divine  descent. 
Losing  control  of  tlie  steeds,  he  set 
the  world  on  tire,  and  was  punished 
for  his  presumption  by  being  struck 
with  a  thunderbolt  and  thrown  into 
the  river  Eridanus,  or  Po.  [Writtea 
also  P  h  a  e  t  h  o  n.] 

Gallop  apace,  yon  fiery-footed  steeds. 
Towards  Phoebus' mansion;  such  a  wagonei 
As  Pha-ton  would  whip  yon  to  tlie  west. 
And  brins'  in  cloudy  night  immediately. 

Shak. 

Phar'a-m6nd.  A  king  of  the  Franks, 
and  a  knight  of  the'Round  Table,  who 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 
19 


PITE 


290 


PHI 


visited  King  Arthur's  court  incogniU), 
to  obtain,  by  his  prowess  and  exploits, 
a  seat  at  this  renowned  board. 

Phe'be.  A  shepherdess,  in  Shake- 
speare's "As  You  Like  It." 

Phi-la'ri-o  (9).  An  Italian,  and  a 
friend  to  Posthunuis,  in  Shake- 
speare's play  ot  "  Cymbeline," 

Phl-le'mSn.  [Gr.  <i>i\riixu}i'.]  ( Gr.  cf 
JioMi.  Mijtii.)  A  pious  rustic,  huS' 
band  ot  iiaucis.     See  Baucis. 

Philinte  (fe'lTint',  62)  A  character  in 
Moliere's  comedy  of  "  The  Misan- 
thrope." 

Phi-lis'i-des.  One  of  the  poetical 
names  of  Sir  Philip  Sidney;  formed 
from  portions  of  the  two  names  P/*/7/p 
and  iSw/ney,  with  a  Latin  termination 
added.  It  was  invented  by  himself, 
and  occurs  in  the  "Arcadia." 

He  knows  the  u^noe  of  that  new  elegance 
Which  sweet  rhi/isif/es  fetched  of  late  from 
France.  Up.  Hall. 

Phil'oc-te'tes.  [Gr.  <i>aoK:T^Tr;?.]  (  Cr. 
tf  Jioiii.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Pceas,  and 
one  of  the  Ar<j:onauts.  He  was  pres- 
ent at  the  deatli  of  Hercules,  and  re- 
ceived from  him  certain  arrows  which 
had  been  dijjped  in  the  ^all  of  the 
Lern:Tcan  hydra.  (See  Hekcules.) 
On  his  journey  to  Troy,  he  was 
wounded  in  the  foot  by  one  of  these 
arrows,  —  or,  according  to  some  ac- 
counts, b}'  a  w'ater-snake,  —  and,  as 
the  wound  ulcerated  and  became  ex- 
cruciathigly  painful,  his  companions 
treacherously  left  him  on  the  solitary 
island  of  Lemnos.  In  the  tenth  year 
of  the  war,  however,  an  oracle  de- 
clared, that  Troy  could  not  be  taken 
Avithout  the  arrows  of  Hercules;  and 
Philoctetes,  yielding  to  the  solicita- 
tion of  Ulysses  and  Diomed,  repaired 
to  Troy,  and  made  use  of  them,  dis- 
tinguishing himself  by  his  A'alor  and 
dexterity. 

riow  changed  for  Marat,  lifted  from  his 
dark  cellar  into  this  luminous  "peculiar  trib- 
une!" All  dogs  have  tl)eir  dav;  even  rabid 
dogs.  Sorrowful,  incurixble  /'hifortptc.t  Ma- 
rat; without  whom  Troy  cannot  be  taken  ! 

Carli/le, 

Phil'o-mel^.  [Gr.  *iAo/a^Aa.]  {Gr. 
()•  Rom.  Myth  )  A  daughter  of  Pan- 
dion,  king  of  Athens,  changed  into 
a.  nightingale. 


Philosoplier,  The.  1.  A  common 
designation  of  the  Roman  emperor 
Marcus  Aurelius  Antoninus.  The  epi- 
thet lV/m//«M.s  —  "  The  Philoso- 
])her" — was  applied  to  him  by 
.lustin  Martyr,  and  is  that  by  which 
he  has  been  connnonly  distinguished 
from  that  period  to  the  present,  al- 
though no  such  title  was  ever  pub- 
licly or  formally  conferred. 

2.  A  surname  given  to  Leo  VI. 
(8(J7-!JI1),  emperor  of  the  East,  prob- 
ably on  account  of  his  writings,  lor 
his  conduct  gave  him  no  claims  to 
the  a|)pelIation. 

3.  An  appellation  bestowed  upon 
Porphyry  .(223-30-i),  an  acute  and 
learned  Neoplatonist,  and  an  earnest 
opponent  of  Christianity. 

Philosopher  of  Fer'ney  (o?-fef'ni'). 

Voltaire  is  sometimes  so  called  from 

his  chateau  of  Ferney,  near  Geneva, 

where  he  spent  the  last  twenty  years 

of  his  life. 

This,  and  several  subsequent  appeals  of  the 
same  sort,  are  among  the  best  |H)iut.s  in  the 
conduct  of  the  "  Philosoplier  of  Fcrnri/." 

W.  Sjialdiny. 

Philosopher  of  Malmesbury 
(mum/yber-ri).  A  name  often  given 
to  Thomas  Hobbes,  who  was  born  at 
Malmesbury  in  1588,  and  who  is  cel- 
ebrated as  the  first  English  psychol- 
ogist, and  the  lirst  great  PLnglish 
writer  on  the  science  of  government. 
His,  says  Mill,  was  "  a  great  name  in 
philosophy,  on  account  both  of  the 
value  of  what  he  taught,  and  the  ex- 
traordinary impulse  Avhich  he  com- 
municated to  the  spirit  of  free  inquiry 
in  Europe." 

Philosopher  of  Sans-Souci  (so" 
soo'se',  02).  A  name  given  to  Fred- 
erick the  (Jreat  (1712-1780),  who  was 
a  disciple  of  Voltaire,  and  the  author 
of  a  book  entitled  "  Anti-^Machiavel," 
as  well  as  several  other  politico-phil- 
osophical works. 

Philosopher  of  the  TJrLknown.  [Fr. 
Le  Phil<>s()/>he  /mortnu.]  The  self- 
assumed  appellation  of  Louis  Claude 
de  Saint  INIartin  (1743-180.3),  a 
French  mystic. 

Philosopher  of  "Wim'ble-dSn  (-bl-). 
A  designation  of  John  Home  Tooke 


For  tho  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Froauuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


PHI 


291 


PIC 


(1736-J812),  a  noted  Enp:lish  gram- 
marian, pliilolofi'ist,  and  politician, 
Avho  resided  at  Wimbledon,  a  parish 
in  the  vicinity  of  I.ondon. 

Phil'os-trS,te.  IMuster  of  the  revels 
tu  Tlieseus,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Mid- 
summer-Night's Dream." 

Phineus.  [Gr.  <l>ii'eu?.]  (  f!r.  if  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  blind  king  of  Thrace,  who 
possessed  the  gitt  of  prophecy.  He 
was  tormented  by  the  Harpies  for  his 
ciiielty  t<nvard  his  sons,  whom  he 
deprived  of  sight  in  consequence  of  a 
lalse  accusation  made  against  them 
bv  their  mother-in-law,  who  charged 
them  with  having  behaved  improp- 
erlv  to  her.  Whenever  Phineus 
wanted  to  eat,  the  Harpies  came,  and 
took  away  or  devoured  a  portion  of 
his  food,  and  detiled  the  rest. 

Phiz.  A  pseudonym  adopted  by  Hab- 
lot  K.  Browne,  an  English  comic 
draughtsman,  who  designed  the  illus- 
trations in  the  first  edition  of  Dick- 
ens's "  Pickwick  Papers." 

Phleg'e-thon.  [Gr.  ^XeyeBiov,  burning, 
flaming.]  "(  Gr.  tj-  Rnm.  }fyih.)  A  river 
hi  Hades  which  rolled  Avith  waves  of 
tire  instead  of  water.  Nothing  grew 
on  its  scorched  and  desolate  sliores. 

Fierce  Phlegethon, 
"Whose  waves  of  torrent  fire  inflame  with  rnpe. 

Milton. 

Phle'g^-as.      [Gr.    $Aeyva?.]      {Gr.    if 

Rom.  }fiiili.)  The  son  of  Mars,  the 
king  of  the  Lapitha?,  and  the  father 
of  Ixion  and  Coronis.  For  his  im- 
piety in  plundering  and  burning  the 
temple  of  Apollo  at  Delphi,  he  was 
placed  in  hell,  where  a  huge  stone 
was  suspended  over  his  head,  which 
kept  him  in  a  state  of  continual 
alarm. 
PhoeTDe.  [Gr.  <i)o-'/3r,.]  ( Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myfh.)  The  goddess  of  the  moon, 
and  sister  of  Phoebus;  a  name  of 
Diana.     See  Diana. 

Phoe'bus.  [Gr.  ^oi^o?,  the  radiant.] 
( Gr.  if  Rom.  Mytli.)  A  poetical  name 
of  Apollo,  considered  as  the  sun-god. 
See  Apollo. 

Phoe'nix.  [Gr.  ^oivi^.']  (  Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  bird  said  to  visit  Heliopolis, 
in  Egypt,  once  in  every  500  years ; 

and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  v  hich  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


according  to  another  and  the  more 
popular  acc(uint,  it  lived  500  years, 
and,  when  about  to  die,  made  a  nest 
in  Arabia,  and  burned  itself  to  ashes, 
from  which  a  young  pha'uix  arose. 

Phoe'nix,  John,  Gentleman.  A 
pseudonym  of  Captain  (icorge  Ho- 
ratio Derby  (d.  IStJl),  a  humorous 
and  popular  American  writer. 

Phoo'ka  or  Poo'ka.  [Probably  the 
same  as  the  Englisli  Puck.^  {Fairy 
Myth.)  Among  the  Irish,  a  spirit  of 
diabolical  disposition.  He  sometimes 
appears  as  an  eagle  or  a  black  horse, 
and  hurries  to  destruction  the  person 
he  gets  possession  of. 

Phor'cus.  [Gr.  4'6pKo?.]  {Gr.<^- Rom. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Neptune,  and  father 
of  Medusa  and  the  other  Gorgons. 
After  death,  he  was  changed  into  a 
sea-god.     [Written  also  P  h  o  r  c  y  s.] 

Phor'mi-o.  A  parasite  in  Terence's 
comedy  of  the  same  name;  an  accom- 
modating gentleman  who  reconciles 
all  parties 

PhyPlis.  [Gr.  <l>vAAi9.]  1.  {Gr.^-Rom. 
Myth.)  A  daughter  of  King  Sithon 
of  Thrace,  wlio  hung  herself,  thinking 
that  she  was  deserted  by  her  lover, 
and  was  changed  by  the  gods  into 
an  almond-tree. 

2.  A  country  girl  in  Virgil's  third 
and  fifth  Eclogues;  hence,  a  rustic 
maiden  in  general. 

At  their  savory  dinner  set 
Of  lierbs,  and  ntlicr  co'untrv  messes. 
Which  the  neat-handed  PhyUis  dresses. 

MUton. 

Pickelherringe  (pik'el-her'ring-a). 
The  popular  name  of  a  bufi"o(m  among 
the  Dutch.  SeeHAXSWUHST.  [Called 
PicUehcirincj  by  the  Germans.] 

f^^  Sir  F.  Palgrave  conjeftures,  that 
thn  term  may  have  heeu  orifiitially  Pickle- 
h'Arin,  i.  f.,  the  hairy  sprite,  answering 
to  Ben  .Tonson's  Puck-hairy  ;  and  that  he 
mav  have  worn  a  rough  garment  of  hair 
or  leaves,  like  the  Scottish  Brownie  and 
other  similar  beings. 

Pickle,  P6r'e-grine.  The  hero  of 
Smollett's  novel,  "  The  Adventures 
of  Peregrine  Pickle." 

Xt@=  "  The  savage  and  ferorious  Pickle, 
.  .  .  besides  his  gro<s  and  base  brutality, 
besides  his  ingratitude  to  his  uncle,  and 


PIC 


292 


PIE 


the  saya^  propensity  which  he  shows  in 
the  pleasure  lie  tiikes  to  torment  others 
by  pr;u;tical  jokes,  resembling  those  of  a 
fiend  iu  glee,  exhibits  a  low  and  uugeu- 
tlemanlike  tone  of  thinking,  only  one 
degree  higher  tliau  that  of  Roderick  llan- 
dom.  .  .  .  ^V'e  eertaiuly  sympathize  very 
little  in  the  distress  of  Pickle,  brought 
on  by  his  own  profligate  profusion  and 
enhanced  by  his  insolent  misanthropy. 
We  are  only  surprised  that  his  predomi- 
nating arrogance  does  not  wearv  out  the 
benevolence  of  Hatchway  and  Pipes,  and 
scarce  think  the  ruined  spendthrift  de- 
serves their  persevering  and  faithful  at- 
tachment." Sir  \V.  HcoU. 

Pick'wick,  Samuel.  The  hero  of 
Dickens's  "Pickwick  Papers;"  dis- 
tinguished for  his  genial  goodness 
and  his  unsophisticated  simplicity. 
He  is  represented  as  tlie  founder  of  a 
club  called  after  his  own  name,  in 
company  with  other  members  of 
which,  who  are  under  his  care  and 
guidance,  he  trav^els  over  England, 
meeting  with  many  laughable  ad- 
ventures. The  expression,  '•  a  Pick- 
wickian sense,"  which  has  passed 
into  common  speech  as  denoting 
a  merely  technical  or  constructive 
sense,  refers  to  a  quarrel  at  a  meeting 
of  the  club,  in  which  Mr.  Pickwick 
accused  Mr.  Blotton  of  acting  in 
a  "vile  and  calumnious"  manner, 
whereupon  the  latter  retorted  by 
calling  Mr.  Pickwick  "a  humbug;" 
but,  it  finally  being  made  to  appear 
that  they  both  used  the  offensive 
words  not  in  a  common,  but  in  a 
parliamentary  sense,  and  that  each 
personally  entertained  "  the  highest 
regard  and  esteem  "  for  the  other,  the 
ditHculty  was  readily  settled,  and  the 
gentlemen  expressed  themselves  mu- 
tually satisfied  with  the  explanations 
which  had  been  made. 

JS(^  "  This  name  [Pickwick]  is  no  fab- 
rication of  our  great  novelist ;  and.  in- 
deed, Very  few  of  his  names,  however 
happy,  however  ludicrous,  are  so.  I 
have  noticed  a  large  proportion  of  them 
on  iictual  sign-boards  in  his  osvn  native 
county  of  Kent.  At  Folkestone  there  is, 
or  at  least  there  recently  was,  a  veritable 
Mark  Tapley,  —  one,  too,  who  had  been 
to  America."  Lower. 

lawyers  .ind  politicians  daily  abuse  each 
other  in  a  Pickicickian  sense.     '      Boicditch. 

Picrochole  (pek'ro'kfiP).     [Fr.,  from 


Gr.  TTixpo?,  bitter,  and  xaXr^y  choler, 
bile,  or  gall.  J  Tiie  name  of  a  charac- 
ter in  Rabelais'  "  Gargantua,"  cele- 
brated for  his  thirst  of  empire,  and 
his  vast  i)roJects.  By  some,  Charles 
V.  of  Spain  is  supposed  to  be  satirized 
under  this  name. 

Pi'cua.  {Rom.  Myth.)  A  king  of 
Latium,  son  of  Saturn  and  father  of 
Faunus;  turned  by  Circe,  whose  love 
he  had  slighted,  into  a  woodpecker. 

Pied  Piper   of   Ham'e-lin.       [Lat. 

Tihicvn  ()/nuicolvr.\  The  hero  of  an 
old  and  celebrated  German  legend, 
related  in  Verstegan's  '"  Ite.-^titntion 
of  Decayed  Intelligence"  (London, 
3634),  of  which  narrative  Kobert 
Browning,  in  his  poem  entitled  "  The 
Pied  Piper,"  has  given  an  extended 
metrical  version.  The  legend  re- 
counts how  a  certain  musician,  dressed 
in  a  fantastical  coat,  came  into  the 
town  of  Hamel,  in  the  country  of 
Brunswick,  and  ofiered,  for  a  sum  of 
money,  to  rid  the  town  of  the  rats 
by  which  it  was  infested ;  and  how, 
having  executed  his  task,  and  the 
promised  reward  having  been  with- 
held, he  in  revenge  blew  again  his 
pipe,  and,  by  the  magic  of  its  tones, 
drew  the  children  of  the  town,  to  the 
number  of  a  hundred  and  thirty,  to  a 
cavern  in  the  side  of  a  hill,  which, 
immediately  upon  their  entrance, 
closed  and  shut  them  in  for  ever. 
Erichius  wrote  a  work,  entitled 
''  Exodus  Hamelensis,"  expresslv  on 
the  subject,  in  which  he  maintained 
the  historical  authenticity  of  the 
stor\-;  and  Martin  Schoock  wrote 
another,  "  F'abula  Hamelensis,"  in 
which  he  took  the  opposite  ground. 
According  to  Yer-stegan,  the  "exo- 
dus" took  place  on  the  22d  of  July, 
1376;  but  the  date  commonly  given 
is  June  20,  1284.  Harenlx^rg  main- 
tains, according  to  Zedler,  that  a 
number  of  Hamelin  children,  who 
were  carried  away  captive  in  a  con- 
test with  the  Bishop  of  Minden 
(Conrad  II.),  never  returned  to  their 
native  land,  and  so  gave  occasion  for 
the  tradition  that  they  had  been 
swallowed  up  alive. 

S^  It  has  been  remarked  that  the 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


PIE 


293 


PIN 


©erman  vf^iff^n^  to  pipe,  moans,  also,  to 
decoy,  to  iilhin-,  to  entice,  to  inveigle, 
aud  tliat  tliis,  perliaps,  is  the  origin  of 
the  Hanielin  in.\  tli  so  far  as  relates  to  the 
children's  being  spirited  away  by  a  piper. 
As  all  tiie  niiscnief  eanu!  tVom  not  paving 
the  Tibieen  Onmieolor  liis  just  dues,  we 
have  a  curious  illustration  of  our  prover- 
bial expression,  •'  I'ay  the  i'iper."  which 
may,  indeed,  have  sprung  from  tais  story. 

Tliis  is  that  despotism  wliich  poets  have 
ceU'br.ited  in  the  I'ied  I'ljter  of  Hanielin, 
Whose  tinisic  drew  like  the  power  of  gravita- 
tion,—  drew  soldiers  and  priests,  traders  and 
feasters,  women  and  boys,  rats  and  mice. 

Emerson. 

I  rather  think  Petrarch  was  the  first  c/io- 
ragiis  of  that  sentimental  dance  wliich  so  long 
led  yonng  folks  awaj-from  the  realities  of  life, 
like  the  Piper  of'  Jlaineliii.  Lowell. 

Pt-6r'i-des.  [Gr.  nteptSe^.]  {Gr.  tf 
Jiiiiu.  }rijtlt.)  1,  A  name  given  to 
the  Muse.^,  from  Pieria,  a  fountain 
near  Mount  01ympu.s. 

2.  Daughters  of  Pierus,  whom  the 
Muses  changed  into  magpies  lor  chal- 
lenging them  to  sing. 

Pierre  (peer;  Fr.  pron.  pe-ef')-  A 
conspirator  in  Otway's  tragedy  of 
"  Venice  Preserved,"  impelled  to 
treason  by  a  mixture  of  patriotism 
and  misanthropy.     See  Jafpiek. 

Ours  is  a  trophv  which  will  not  decay 
With  the  Rialto;  Shylock,  and  tlie  ^■Ioor, 
And  Pierre,  cannot  be  swept  or  worn  away. 

liyron. 

Pierrot  (pe-ef^o').  [Fr.,  little  Peter, 
from  Pierre,  Peter.]  A  jesting  char- 
acter in  pantomime,  who  takes  the 
part  of  a  simple  valet,  wearing  white 
pantaloons,  and  a  large  white  jacket 
with  a  row  of  big  buttons  in  front, 
and  who  often  paints  his  face  white. 

Pi-'gro-grom'i-tus.  A  name  occur- 
ring in  Shakespeare's  comedv  of 
"Twelfth  Night."  Who  or  what  is 
meant  by  it,  is  not  known.  Sir 
Andrew  Ague-cheek  merely  alludes 
to  it  as  having  been  used  by  Olivia's 
clown  upon  an  occasion  of  mirth  and 
jesting,  so  that,  in  all  likelihood,  it 
was  not  intended  to  be  taken  seri- 
ously as  a  genuine  name. 

In  sooth,  thou  wast  in  very  gracious  fooling 
last  night,  when  thou  spokest  of  /'if/rofjroiiit- 
tiut,  of  the  ^'apians  passing  the  equinoctial  of 
Queubus;  't  was  very  good,  i' faith.         S/iak. 

Pig-wig'gin.  The  name  of  a  doughty 
elf,  whose  amours  with  Queen  Mab, 
and  furious  combat  with  the  jealous 


Oberon,    are    related    in    Drayton's 
"  Nyniphidia." 

The  same  genius  whicli  now  busies  us  with 
their  concerns  nnght  have  excited  an  equal 
nitercst  for  the  adventures  of  Oberon  and 
I'i'Ji:.i<jyui.  Jeffrey. 

Pillar  of  Doctors.  [Fr.  Ln  Colnnne 
des  L)ucteurs.\  An  honorary  appella- 
tion given  by  his  admirers  to  W  illiam 
de  i;hanipeaux,  a  celei)rated  French 
philosopher  and  theologian  of  the 
twelfth  centiny. 

Pillars  of  Her'cu-les.  [Lat.  Columrus 

HerCLlUs.^    Gr.    'Hpa/cAeiai    (jT^Aai.]      A 

name  given  hy  the  old  Greeks  and 
Koinans  to  two  mountains  on  oppo- 
site sides  of  the  strait  comiecting 
the  Mediterranean  Sea  with  the  At- 
lantic Ocean.  These  mountains  — 
anciently  called  Calpe  andAb\la  — 
were  sitiuited,  the  former  in  Fin'ope, 
and  the  latter  in  Atrica.  Their  mod- 
ern names  are,  respectively,  theliock 
of  Gibraltar,  and  Jebel  Zatout,  or 
Apes'  Hill.  The  classical  appellation 
of  the  Pillars  of  Hercules  was  given 
to  them  in  consequence  of  a  fiction 
that  Hercules,  in  his  travels  to  lind 
the  oxen  of  Geryon,  raised  these  two 
mountains  as  moninnents  of  his 
journey,  and  placed  on  them  the  in- 
scription, "Ne  plus  ultra.,'"  importing 
that  they  marked  the  utmost  limits 
of  the  habitable  world  in  that  direc- 
tion. The  Pillars  of  Hercules  long 
remained  deeply  fixed  in  the  Greek 
mind  as  a  terminus  of  human  adven- 
ture and  aspiration. 

Perhaps  the  strongest  circumstance  of  the 
■whole  was,  that  the  old  dethroned  king  of 
Spain,  and  his  consort,  undertook  a  journey, 
for  the  purpose  of  carrying  their  personal  con- 
gratulations on  the  birtli'  of  an  heir,  to  one 
who  had  deposed,  and  was  detaining  in  prison, 
their  own  lineage,  and  had  laid  Spain,  their 
native  douiinions,  in  blood,  from  the  Pvreneea 
to  thi:  I'illurg  of  Hercules.  Sir  }t.  Scott. 

Pinch.  A  schoolma.ster  and  conjurer 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Comedy  of  Er- 
1-0  rs." 

Pinch,  Tom.  A  character  in  Dick- 
ens's '•  M.irtin  Chuzzlewit,"  distin- 
guished by  his  guilelessness,  his  odd- 
ity, his  excessive  modesty,  and  his 
exhaustless  goodness  of  heart. 

Pinchwife,  Mr.  A  prominent  char- 
acter in  Wvcherley's  comedy  of 
"The  Country  Wife" 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  whick  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


PIN 


294 


PLA 


She  [Lady  Jlroghedn]  well  knew  in  what 
estoeiii  conjugal  iidclity  wu»  held  aniunfc  the 
fine  geiitlciiiLii  there,  and  watched  her  town 
husb:iiid  as  assiduously  as  Mr.  I'iiichwife 
watched  his  country  wile.  Macuutuy. 

Pinchwife,  Mrs.  The  heroine  of 
Wvrhorley's  "  Countiy  Wife."  See 
Agnes,  1. 

Pindar,  Peter.  A  ppeudonvm  adopted 
by  Dr.  .lolin  Woloott  (1738-1819). 
la  his  first  jtiiblicalioii,  "  Lyric  Odes 
to  tlie  Koyal  Academicians  for  1782," 
he  styles  himself  "  a  distant  relation 
of  the  poet  of  Thebes." 

Pindar  of  "Wakefield.  See  Georgk 
a-Gi:i:en. 

Pine-tree  State.  A  popular  name 
of  the  State  of  Maine,  tlie  central  and 
northern  ])ortions  of -which  are  cov- 
ered with  extensive  pine  forests. 

Pip.  [A  childish  corruption  of  P/(////> 
I'irrijj.]  A  by-name  of  the  hero  of 
Dickens's  novel  of  "  Great  Expecta- 
tions." 

Piper,  Tom.  One  of  the  characters 
making  up  a  morris-dance. 

So  have  I  seen 
Tom  Piper  stand  upon  our  village  green, 
Backed   with  the   May-pole,  while  a  gentle 

crew, 
In  gentle  motion,  circularly  threw 
Themselves  about  him.  ]Vm.  Browne. 

Piper  of  Hamelin,  The  Pied.  See 
I'lEi)  PiPEK  OF  Hamelin. 

Pipes,  Tom.  The  name  of  a  char- 
acter in  Smollett's  "  Adventures  of 
I'eregrine  Pickle;"  celebrated  for  his 
taciturnity,  and  represented  as  a  re- 
tired boatswain's  mate,  living  with 
the  eccentric  Contmodore  Trunnion 
to  keep  the  servants  in  order. 

One  wonders.  Were  I'i/ies  and  Hatchway 
there  in  [Cominodon]  Martin's  squadron? 
In  what  station  CdiiniMKlore  Trunnion  did 
then  serve  in  the  British  Navy  ?  Carhjle. 

Pi-rith'o-us.  [Gr.  Ileipieoo?.]  {Gr.  (f 
Itoia.  Mtfdi.)  A  son  of  Ixion,  and  a 
king  of  the  Lapitha;.  His  friendship 
for  Theseus,  king  of  Athens,  was 
proverbial.  After  the  death  of  Hip- 
podamia,  he  descended,  in  company 
with  Theseus,  to  the  infernal  regions, 
to  carry  away  Proserpine;  but  Pluto, 
who  was  advised  of  their  intention, 
bound  Pirithous  to  his  father's  wheel 
(see  Ixiox),  and  Theseus  to  a  mon- 
strous stone. 

Pl-sa'ni-o.    A  servant  to  Posthumus, 


in  Shakespeare's  "  Cymbeline."  He 
is  distinguished  for  faithful  attach- 
ment to  Imogen,  his  master's  wife. 
Pistol,  Ancient.  A  iollower  of  Pal- 
staff,  in  Shakespeare's  "■  Merry  Wives 
of  Windsor,"  and  in  the  Seciiiid  Part 
of  "  King  Henry  the  Pourth."  He 
is  a  bully  and  a  swaggerer  by  profes- 
sion. 

ti^  Perhaps  from  piatolfo,  explained 
by  Florio  as  ''.a  roj^uing  heggar.  a  can- 
tier,  an  upright  man  that  liveth  by  cozen- 
age." HuUiu'ell. 

In  this  mood,  if  any  one  endeavored  to 
bring  Sir  Arthur  down  to  the  regions  of  com- 
mon life,  his  replies  were  in  the  vein  of  Aw 
cieiit  I'i.itol :  — 

"A  fico  for  the  world,  and  worldlings  base  ! 
I  speak  of  Africa  and  golden  joys !  " 

■V(>  M'.  Scott. 

I  only  say,  that  I  read  from  liabit  and  from 

indolence,  not  from   real   interest:  thiit,  like 

Ancient  I'iMol  devouring  his  leek,  I  lead  and 

swear  till  I  get  to  the  end  of  the  narrative. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Plagiary,  Sir  Fretful.  A  character 
in  Sheridan's  play,  "  The  Critic." 
designed,  it  is  said,  for  Richard  Cum- 
berland (1732-1811),  an  English  dra- 
matic writer,  noted  lor  his  vanity 
and  irritabilit}'. 

He  has,  therefore,  no  reason  to  complain; 
and  I  dare  say,  that,  like  Sir  Frttinl I'layiurnj, 
he  is  rather  pleased  than  otherwise.        Lpron. 

Plain,  The.  [Fr.  Ln  Plaine  ]  {Fr. 
Jlist.)  A  name  given  to  that  part  of 
the  benches,  in  the  National  Conven- 
tion, occupied  by  the  Girondists,  or 
the  more  moderate  among  the  dep- 
uties; hence,  these  deputies  them- 
selves. The  Plain  succumbed  in  the 
contest  with  "The  Mountain."  See 
Mountain,  The,  and  Maiush,  The. 

Plain    and    Perspicuous    Doctor. 

[Lat.  Ihidor  Planus  et  Piis/jicuiis,  or 
Coiispuuus.]  An  honorary  title  be- 
stowed upon  Walter  Burleigh  (1275- 
1357),  a  famous  scholastic,  by  hi.s 
admiring  contemporaries,  lie  is  said 
to  have  combated  the  opinions  of 
Duns  Scotus  with  great  vigor. 

Platonic  Puritan.  An  appellation 
given  to  John  Howe  (lOoO-HOfi),  a 
distinguished  Xon -conformist  divine, 
and  a  man  of  great  general  learning. 
His  writings  are  distinguished  for 
their  originality,  profundity,  and  ])hil- 
osophical  calmness  and  comj)rehen- 
siveness. 


B@°"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"   with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


PLE 


295 


POE 


Ple'iad,  The.  A  title  given,  in  allu- 
sion to  the  seven  stars  ol'  tiiis  name, 
to  a  j^roiip  or  reuniuu  of  seven  cele- 
brated persons. 

1.  The  PiiiLosopTtirAL  Plkiad. 
See  Seven  Wi.se  Men  of  Gheece. 

2.  The  First  Litekahy  Pleiad, 
or  Pleiad  ok  Aleva.ndkia,  was 
instituted  bv  Ptolemy  Philailelphus, 
and  compo.-ed  of  the  contemporary 
poets,  Callimachus,  Apollonius  of 
Rhodes,  Aratus,  Homer  the  younger, 
Lycophron,  Nicander,and  Theocritus. 

3.  The  Liteuaky  Pleiad  of 
Charlemagne  was  a  sort  of  acad- 
emy founded  by  that  monarch,  in 
which  Alcuin  was  called  Alhlnus ; 
Angilbert,  fTnincr;  Adelard,  Aur/iis- 
tiin- ;  Riculfe,  /)aw£< /s  ;  and  Charle- 
magne himself,  David.  Varnefrid 
and  one  other  completed  the  Pleiad. 

4.  A  literary  school  in  France,  in 
the  sixteenth  century,  of  which 
Ronsard  was  the  head,  and  six  of 
his  admirers  the  remaining  mem- 
bers; namely,  the  poets  .loachim  du 
Beliay,  Aiitoine  de  Baif,  Amadis 
Jamyn,  Belleau,  Jodelle,  and  Ponthus 
de  Thiard.  They  were  at  tirst  called 
L'l  Brigade. 

Ple'i-a-des  (ple'yS-dez,  20).  [Gr. 
II  veiaSes.]  ( ('i:  c/  Roiii.  Mijth. )  Sev- 
en daughters  of  Atlas  and  Pleione, 
named  Electra,  Alcyone,  Ceheno, 
Maia,  Steropj,  Taygete,  and  Merope. 
Their  history  is  ditferently  related, 
but  all  authorities  agree  that  they 
were  transt'ormed  into  the  constel- 
lation which  bears  their  name.  Only 
six  of  these  stars  are  visible  to  the 
naked  eve;  and  the  ancients  believed 
that  the  seventh  (Merope)  hid  her- 
self from  shame,  she  alone  having 
married  a  mortal,  while  her  sisters 
were  the  wives  of  gods. 

PlSy'deU,  Mr.  Pau'lus.  A  shrewd 
and  witty  lawyer  in  Scott's  novel  of 
"  Guy  Mannering." 

Did  the  old  gentleman  who  drawls  about 
the  boozing  buffoonery  of  the  "  Noctes  "  ever 
hear  of  a  celebrated  lawyer,  one  Phprlell,  who, 
in  his  leisure  hours,  was  strenuously  addicted 
to  High  Jinks  ?  Noctes  Amhi-osiance. 

Pliant,  Sir  Paul.  An  uxorious,  fool- 
ish old  knight,  in  Congreve's  comedy 
of  "The  Double  Dealer." 


Of  what  consequence  is  it  to  Virtue,  or  hov 
is  she  ut  all  concerned  about  it,  .  .  .  who  is 
the  father  of  Lord  Froth's  or  Sir  Paul  I'linnt's 
children?  C/iarlns  Lanih. 

Plon-plon,  Prince  (plo"'pl6n',  f»2). 
A  nickname  given  to  Princi'  Napoleon 
Josepli  Charles  liouaparte,  son  of 
Jerome  Bonaparte  bv  his  second  wife, 
the  Princess  Frederica  Catherine  of 
Wiirtemberg. 

Plowman,  PiSrs.  The  hero  of  a 
celeijrated  satirical  poem  ("  The 
Vision  of  Piers  I'iowman  ")  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  of  which  Robert 
Langland  (or  Langlande)  is  the  re- 
puted author.  Piers  is  represented 
as  tailing  asleep  on  the  Malvern  Hills, 
in  Worcestershire,  and  as  having  a 
series  of  dreams.  In  describing  these, 
he  exposes  the  corruptions  of  society, 
and  particularly  the  dissoluteness  and 
avarice  of  the  religious  orders,  with 
great  humor  and  fancy,  but  consider- 
able bitterness.  An  imitation  of  the 
"  Vision,"'  called  "  I'iers  Plowman's 
Creed,"  appears  to  have  been  written 
about  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury. It  is  an  exposition  of  the  imped- 
iments and  temptations  which  beset 
this  mortal  life  The  method,  like  that 
of  Bunyan's  "  Pilgrim's  Progress," 
is  allegorical,  but  the  spirit  of  the 
poetry  is  not  so  much  picturesque  as 
satirical. 

Plu'to.  [Gr.  u\ovToii'.]  (  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
}[llt}i.)  A  son  of  Saturn  and  Ops, 
brother  of  Jupiter  and  Xeptime.  hus- 
band of  Proser[)ine,  and  the  inexo- 
rable king  of  the  under-world.  See 
PitosEKi'iNE.     [Called  also  />/s.] 

Plu'tus.  [Gr.  OAoOto?  ]  (  Gr.  cj-  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  god  of  riches;  a  son  of 
lasius,  or  lasion,  and  Ceres. 

Plymley,  Peter.  A  pseudonym 
under  which  Sydney  Smith  (1771- 
1845),  published  a  powerful  political 
tract,  entitled  "■  Letters  on  the  Sub- 
ject of  the  Catholics,  to  mv  Brother 
Abraham,  who  lives  in  the  Country." 

Pochi  Danari  (po'kee  dS-na'ree). 
[It.,  the  penniless.]  A  sobriquet 
given  by  the  Italians  to  jMaximilian 
I.  ( 1459-1.519 ),  emperor  of  Germany. 

Poet  of  Poets.  A  name  often  given 
to  Shelley  (1792-1822),  who  is  pre- 


and  for  the  Kemarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


POE 


296 


POL 


eminent  anions  modem  writers  for 
the  c-onipass  of  his  imagination  and 
the  peeidiar  graces  of  liis  style. 
Maeauhiy  says  that  the  words 
"  bard  "  and  "'inspiration,"  generally 
so  unmeaning  wiien  applied  to  mod- 
ern poets,  have  a  special  signiticance 
when  applied  to  Shelley. 
Poets'  Corner.  An  angle  in  the 
south  transept  ofWestminster  Abbey, 
London  ;  —  popularly  so  called  from 
the  fact  that  it  contains  the  toml)s  of 
Chaucer,  Spenser,  and  other  eminent 
English  poets,  and  memorial  tablets, 
busts,  statues,  or  monuments,  to  many 
who  are  buried  in  other  places. 

Poet  Squab.  A  nickname  given  by 
Lord  Rochester  to  Dryden,  on  ac- 
count of  his  corpulence  in  later  life. 

Poins.  A  companion  of  Sir  John 
Falstaff  in  the  two  parts  of  Shake- 
speare's "  King  Henry  IV."  [Writ- 
ten also  Poy  ns.] 

We  were  still  further  removed  from  the 
days  of  "  the  inad  prince  and  J'oinx." 

^  Sir  }V.  Scott. 

The  chronicles  of  that  day  contain  accounts 
of  many  a  luad  prank  which  he  [Lord  War- 
wick, Addison's  step-son]  played,  as  we  have 
legends  of  a  still  earlier  date  of  the  lawless 
freaks  of  the  wild  prince  and  Poyns. 

Thackeray. 

Polish  Bay'ard.  A  name  given  to 
Prince  Joser)h  Poniatowski  (17G3- 
18 U),  a  Polish  general  of  distin- 
guished bravery. 

Polish  By'rSn  (9).  A  name  which 
has  been  very  generally  given  to  the 
Polish  poet,  Adam  ^Nlickiewicz  (1798- 
1855).  It  has  been  said  to  convey 
"  as  correct  a  notion  of  the  nature 
and  the  extent  of  his  genius  as  any 
single  epithet  could  possibly  do." 

Polish  Franklin.  An  appellation 
conferred  on  Thaddeus  Czacki  ( 1765- 
1813),  a  distinguished  counselor,  phi- 
losopher, and  historian  of  Poland. 

Polish  Vol-taire'.  A  name  popular- 
ly given  to  Ignatius  Krasicki  (177'i- 
1801),  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
literary  men  of  Poland,  and  author 
of  a  great  number  of  works  in  prose 
and  verse. 

Polixene  (|)o'lek'san').  An  assumed 
name,  adopted,  instead  of  her  bap- 
tismal one  of  M(ultliin,  by  a  female 


character  in  Moliere's  famous  com- 
edy, '*  Les  Precieuses  Kidicules." 

Po-lix'e-ne§.     King  of  Bohemia,  in 

Shakespeare's  "  Winter's  Tale." 

Pol'lux.  A  famous  pugilist,  the  twin, 
brother  of  Castor.     See  Castok. 

Po-lo'ni-us.  Lord  chamberlain  to  the 
king  of  Denmark,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  "  llandet." 

Xf^  "  Polonius  ...  is  the  personified 
meuiory  of  wisdom  no  lougf-r  iictu.iUy  pos- 
sessed. This  admirable  character  is  always 
niisrepreseuted  on  the  stairt- .  Shakespeare 
never  iuteuded  to  exhibit  him  as  a  buf- 
foon ;  for,  although  it  was  natural  that 
Hamlet  —  a  young  man  of  fire  and  genius, 
detesting  formality,  and  disliking  PoloniufJ 
on  political  grounds,  as  imagining  that  he 
had  assisted  his  uncle  in  his  usurpation 
—  should  express  himself  satirically,  yet 
this  must  not  be  taken  as  exactly  the 
poet's  conception  of  him.  In  Polonius.  a 
certain  induration  of  character  had  arisen 
from  long  habits  of  business:  but  tJike 
his  advice  to  Laertes,  and  Ophelia's  rev- 
erence for  his  memory,  and  we  shall  see 
that  he  was  meant  to  be  represented  as  a 
statesman  somesvhat  past  his  faculties,  — 
his  recollections  of  life  all  full  of  wis- 
dom, and  showing  aknowleilgc  of  humaa 
nature,  whilst  what  immediately  takes 
place  before  him,  and  escapes  from  him, 
is  indicative  of  weakness.  ...  In  the 
great,  ever-recurring  dangers  and  duties 
of  life.  —  where  to  distinguish  the  fit  ob- 
jects for  the  application  of  the  maxims 
collected  by  the  experience  of  a  long  life 
requires  no  fint-ness  of  tact,  as  iti  the 
admonitions  to  his  son  and  daughter, — 
Polonius  is  uniformly  made  respectable." 

Coleridge. 

Po-lyd'a-niS,s.  [Gr.  Uo\vSatxa<;.]  A 
Grecian  athlete,  famous  for  his  im- 
mense size  and  strength.  .Many 
marvelous  stories  are  related  of  him, 
as  that,  when  unarmetl.  he  killed  a 
huge  and  liercc  lion,  stopped  a  chariot 
in  full  career,  lifted  a  mad  bull,  and 
the  like.  He  is  said  to  have  met  his 
death  in  attempting  to  stop  or  to  sus- 
tain a  failing  ruck. 

PoPy-deu'ces.  [Gr.  noAuSevKT;?.]  (  Gr. 
(f  Rom.  Mi/tli  )  The  Greek  form  of 
Pollux.     See  Pollux. 

PoP^-dore.  [Lat.  Poti/Jom.^,  Gr. 
IloAi;6iooo  .  I  1.  {O'r.  (f  Rom.  .Mijth.] 
The  voungest  son  of  Priam  and 
Hecuba;  he  was  killed  for  his  riches 


Tor  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


POL 


297 


POP 


by  Poljinnestor,  king  of  Thrace,  who 
had  been  intrusted  with  tlie  care  of 
him. 

2.  A  feigned  name  assumed  by 
Guiderius,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Cyni- 
beline." 

PoPy-liyra'ni-a,    or     Po-lym'ni-a. 

[Gr.  lloAuMi'ta.]  {Gr.  (f  Rom.  Mijlh'.) 
One  of  the  Muses;  the  one  who  pre- 
sided over  rhetoric  and  singing.  She 
was  reputed  to  be  the  inventress  of 
the  lyre. 

PoF^-ni'ces.  [Gr.  iToAvi'et/cT)?.]  ( Gr. 
t)'-  Ram.  Myth.)  Son  of  Oedipus  and 
Jocasta,  and  brother  of  Eteocles.  See 
Eteocles  and  Seven  against 
Thebes. 

PoPy-phe'mus.  [Gr.  noAv'^Tj/xo?.]  (  Gr. 
if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Neptune, 
and  one  of  the  Cyclops,  who  dwelt 
in  Sicily.  He  was  a  cruel  monster, 
of  immense  size  and  strength,  and 
had  but  one  eye.  which  was  in  the 
middle  of  his  forehead.  When  Ulys- 
ses landed  in  Sicily,  he,  with  twelve 
of  his  companions,  got  caught  in  the 
cave  of  Polyphemus,  and  six  of  the 
number  were  eaten  by  the  tremendous 
cannibal.  The  rest  were  in  expecta- 
tion of  the  same  fate,  but  their  cun- 
ning leader  enabled  them  to  escape, 
by  contriving  to  intoxicate  Polyphe- 
mus, and  then  destroying  his  single 
eye  with  a  tire-brand.  [Written  also 
poetically,  and  in  an  Anglicized  form, 
P  o  1  _\'  p  h  e  m  e.] 

Po-mo'na.  [Lat.,  cognate  with potmim, 
fruit.]  (Rom.  My'h.)  The  goddess 
of  fruit  and  friut-trees.      See   Yek- 

TU.MNUS. 

Pom'pey.  The  name  of  a  clown,  in 
Shakespeare's  '"  Measure  lor  Meas- 
ure." 

Ponocrates  (po-nok^rS-tez;  Fr.  jrron. 
po'nok'ra-tess').  The  name  of  Gar- 
gantua's  tutor,  in  Ilabelais'  famous 
roniance. 

Pons  As'I-no'rum.  [Lat.,  Bridge  of 
Asses.]  A  name  given  to  the  famous 
fifth  proposition  of  the  tirst  book  of 
Euclid's  "  E'ements,"  from  tlie  cir- 
cumstance that  tvTos  usually  fiud 
much  diliculty  in  getting  over  it. 

Poor  Richard.     The  feigned  author 


of  a  series  of  Almanacs  (commenced 
in  17'i2,  and  continued  (or  twenty-live 
years),  really  written  by  lienjamin 
Franklin,  and  distinguished  for  their 
inculcation  of  the  prudential  virtues, 
as  temperance,  frugality,  order,  jus- 
tice, cleanliness,  chastity,  and  the 
like,  by  means  of  maxims  or  precepts, 
which,  it  has  been  said,  "are  as  valu- 
able as  any  thing  that  has  descended 
from  Pythagoras."     See  Saunders, 

RiCIIAKD. 

Few  of  the  rtianv  wise  apotheprns  which 
have  been  uttered,  troni  the  time  of  tlie  Seven 
Sages  of  Greece  to  that  of  Poor  Richard,  have 
prevented  a  single  foolish  action.     Mucaulay, 

Poor  Robin.  The  imaginar\-  author 
of  a  celebrated  series  of  Almanacs 
first  published  in  1661  or  16G2,  and 
said  to  have  originated  with  Kobert 
Herrick,  the  poet.  Other  books  were 
also  published  under  the  same  name, 
as  "  Poor  Robin's  Visions,"  "  Poor 
Robin's  Pathway  to  Knowledge,"  &c. 

Pope  Joan.  See  Joan,  Pope. 

Pope  of  Philosophy.  An  appellation 
conferred  upon  Aristotle  (b.  c.  384— 
322),  in  modern  times,  on  account  of 
the  boundless  reverence  paid  to  his 
name,  the  infallibility  ascribed  to  his 
teaching,  and  the  despotic  influence 
which  his  system  of  thought  exercised 
upon  the  strongest  minds  of  Europe 
for  centuries. 

Popish  Plot.  ( En f/.  Hist.)  The  name 
given  to  an  imaginary  plot  on  the 
part  of  the  Roman  Catholics  in  the 
time  of  Charles  II.,  to  massacre  the 
Protestants,  burn  the  city  of  London, 
and  assassinate  the  king.  The  fiction 
was  devised  by  one  Titus  Gates,  an 
unprincipled  and  vagabond  adven- 
turer, who  had  been  successively  an 
Anabaptist  minister,  a  clergyman  of 
the  Lstablished  Church,  and  a  Roman 
Catholic.  By  the  aid  of  suborned 
witnesses,  he  procured  the  judicial 
murder  of  many  innocent  persons; 
but  a  violent  reaction  at  last  set  in, 
and  he  Avas  tried,  convicted  of  per- 
jury, pilloried,  whipped,  and  impris- 
oned. 

Poplar,  Anthony.  A  name  assumed 
by  the  editor  of  the  "  Dublin  Uni- 
versity Magazine,"  when  it  was  first 
started. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numDers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


POR 


298 


roR 


Porcupine,  Peter.  A  pseudonym 
adopted  by  William  Coijbett  (17fi2- 
18;}5),  a  voluiniiimis  political  Avriter. 
In  17'JG,  he  establisiied  in  I'liiladel- 
pliia  "  Peter  Porcupine's  Gazette." 
An  edition  of  the  Porcupine  Papers, 
in  12  vols.,  was  pubHshed  in  London 
in  1801. 

Pork-op'o-lis.  [Eng.  porlc,  and  Gr. 
TToAi?,  city. J  A  Jocular  nickname  for 
the  city  of  Cincinnati,  which  is  one 
of  the  greatest  markets  for  pork  in 
America. 

Por'rex.     See  Ferrex. 

Por'se-na,  or  Por-sen'na,  Larg.  A 
legendary  king  of  ILtruria,  who  made 
war  on  Uomc  on  accoimt  of  the  ban- 
ishment of  the  Tarquins  from  that 
city.  Macaulay  has  made  him  the 
subject  of  one  of  the  most  magnili- 
cent  of  his  "  Lays  of  Ancient  Home." 

Porte-Crayon.  A  pseudonym  of 
David  H.  Strother,  author  of  an  in- 
teresting series  of  illustrated  papers 
published  in  "  Harper's  Magazine." 

Por'ti-a  (por'shi-fl,  or  por'shla).  A 
rich  heiress,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Mer- 
chant of  Venice.''  She  is  in  love 
with  IJassanio;  but  her  choice  of  a 
husband  is  rL-strained  by  a  whim  of 
her  deceased  father,  who  deposited 
her  picture  in  one  of  three  locked 
caskets,  of  gold,  silver,  and  lead, 
respectively,  with  the  testamentary 
proviso  that  her  hand  and  fortune 
were  to  be  bestowed  upon  that  suitor 
only  who  should  guess  which  of  the 
caskets  contained  her  likeness.  For- 
eign princes,  who  come  to  try  their 
luck,  select  the  golden  and  silver 
chests,  which  contain  nothing  but  a 
death's-head  and  a  fool's  head,  with 
scrolls  bearing  mocking  mottoes  ; 
but  Hassanio  fortunately  chooses  the 
"  meager  lead,"  and  wins  his  mis- 
tress. Soon  after,  his  friend  Antonio, 
a  wealthy  merchant,  having  thought- 
lessly signed  a  bond  in  favor  of 
Shylock,  a  -Tewish  usurer,  by  which 
he  agreed  to  forfeit  a  pound  of  flesh 
in  case  of  failure  to  n-pay  in  a  stip 
ulated  time  a  sum  of  money  which 
he  liad  borrowed,  and  being  unable, 
fi'om  a  concurrence  of  unt'ortunate 
circumstances,  to  meet  the  obligation, 


Portia,  in  the  di.sguise  of  a  "  young 
doctor  of  Rome,"  and  under  the 
assumed  name  of  Balthazar,  man- 
ages to  have  the  case  tried  belore 
herself,  and  at  last  gives  judgment 
against  the  Jew.  Bassanio  urges  her 
to  accept  of  three  thousand  ducats  — 
the  sum  due  to  Shylock  from  Antonio 
—  byway  of  remuneration;  but  she 
begs  for  a  ring  that  she  had  once 
given  him,  and  which  he  had  sworn 
never  to  sell,  or  give  away,  or  lose. 
He  begs  to  be  excused  from  parting 
with  it,  but  is  linally  over-persuaded, 
and  lets  her  have  it.  This  incident 
furnishes  the  occasion  for  a  simu- 
lated (juarrel  between  Bassanio  and 
Portia  when  they  meet  at  Portia's 
house  in  Belmont.  The  story  of  the 
bond  is  of  Eastern  origin. 

Portuguese  A-pollo.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Luis  Camocns  (1.527- 
1579),  the  great  national  poet  of 
Portugal.     See  Apollo. 

Portuguese  Liv'y-.  An  appellation 
conferred  upon  Joao  de  Barros  ( 1490- 
1570),  the  most  distinguished  of 
Portuguese  historians.  His  style  is 
greatly  admired. 

Portuguese  Mars.  A  title  of  Alfonso 
de  All)0(iuerque  (1452-1515),  viceroy 
of  India,  and  a  man  of  extraordinary 
wisdom  and  enterprise,  Avho,  in  1503, 
took  possession  of  Goa,  which  he 
made  the  center  of  Portuguese  pow- 
er and  commerce  in  Asia,  and  sub- 
dued the  whole  of  Malabar,  Ceylon, 
the  Sunda  Isles,  and  the  peninsula  of 
Malacca. 

Portuguese  Nos'tra-da'mus.  A 
surname  of  Gon(,'alo  Annes  Bandarra 
(d.  1556),  a  poet-cobbler,  whose  writ- 
ings were  vsuppressed  by  the  Inquisi- 
tion. 

Portuguese  !N"un.  Mariana  Alcafo- 
rad.)  (d.  about  1700),  a  Portuguese 
lady  who  addressed  a  series  of  famous 
letters  to  the  Chevalier  de  Cham  illy, 
with  whom  she  was  deeply  in  love, 
though  he  did  not  reciprocate  her 
passion.  She  derived  the  sobriquet 
from  her  supposed  connection  with  a 
c<)nvont. 

Portuguese  Ti'ti-an  (tish'T-iin).  A 
title  given  to  Alonzo  Sanches  Coello 


Ukir  For  the   "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Fruuuuciatiuu,"  with  the  accuiiipunyiug  Escplonation^ 


POR 


299 


PRA 


(1515-1590),  a  Portuguese  painter 
whose  style  is  thouglit  to  resemble 
that  of  the  illustrious  Italian  painter, 
Veecllio  Tiziauo,  or  Titian. 

Por-tu'nus  (0).  [Lat.,  from  partus,  a 
harbor. J  (Jiom.  Myth.)  The  pro- 
tecting god  of  harbors. 

Po-sei'don.  [Gr.  nocreiSwi'.]  {Myth.) 
The  Greek  name  of  Nejitune.  See 
Neftune. 

Post'hu-mus,  Le'o-nap'tus.  Hus- 
band to  Imogen,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Cymbeline."  He  is  distinguished 
for  his  rash  but  unsuccessful  plotting 
of  his  wife's  death  as  a  punishment 
of  her  supposed  intidelity  to  him. 

Potage,  Jean  (zho"  po^tazh',  62),  A 
grotesque  character  on  tlie  French 
stage.     See  Hanswukst. 

Pounce,  Mr,  Peter.  A  character  in 
Fielding's  novel,  "^  The  Adventures 
of  Joseph  Andrews."  See  Adams, 
Pakson  Abraham. 

Poundtext,  Peter.  An  "indulged 
pastor"  with  the  Covenanters'  armv. 
in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  '^  Old  Mortal- 
ity." 

Pourceau^nao,  M.  de  (mos'e^'  du 
poor/sdn'yak',  43,  78).  The  hero  of 
Moliere's  comedy  of  the  same  name; 
a  pompous  country  gentleman  who 
comes  to  Paris  to  marry  Julie,  —  the 
heroine  of  the  piece,  —  the  authority 
of  her  father  having  destined  her 
hand  to  him.  But  .lulie  has  a  lover, 
and  this  lover  plays  off"  so  many 
tricks  and  mystifications  upon  the 
provincial  suitor  that  he  finally  re- 
linquishes his  suit  in  despair. 

l6w'ell,  Mary.  A  pseudonym  of 
Miss  Anne  Manning,  a  writer  of 
the  present  day. 

Poy'nings'  Law.  (Irish  Hist.)  A 
law  passed  by  a  parliament  sum- 
moned to  meet  at  Drogheda,  by  Sir 
Edward  Poynings,  governor  of  Ire- 
land in  the  time  of  Henry  YII. 
This  memorable  statute  established 
the  authority  of  the  English  govern- 
ment in  Ireland. 

P.  P.,  Clerk  of  this  Parish.  The 
feiffned  author  of  a  humorous  and 
celebrated  volume  of  ]\Iemoirs  real- 
ly written  by  Arbuthnot,  in  ridicule 


of  Burnet's  "History  of  My  Own 
Times,"  The  I'ollowmg  extract  will 
give  an  idea  of  this  lamous  work :  — 

"  In  the  name  of  tUe  Lord,  Auien. 
I,  I*.  P.,  Clerk  of  this  Parish,  by  the 
grace  of  (Jod  write  tiiis  liistory.  .  .  . 
Even  when  1  was  at  school  my  mistress 
did  ever  extol  me  above  tlie  rest  of  the 
youth,  in  that  J  had  a  laudable  voice. 
And  it  was  furthermore  observed  that  I 
took  a  kindly  affection  unto  that  blai  k 
letter  in  which  our  Bibles  are  printed. 
Yea,  often  did  I  exercise  myself  in  sing- 
ing goodly  ballads,  such  as  'The  I*ady 
and  Death,'  "■  The  Children  in  the 
Wood,'  and  '  Chevy  Chase;'  and  not, 
like  other  children,  in  lewd  and  trivial 
ditties.  Moreover,  while  I  was  a  boy, 
I  always  ventured  to  lead  the  psalm 
next  after  Master  William  Harris,  my 
predecessor,  who  (it  must  be  confessed 
to  the  glory  of  Gud)  was  a  must  excellent 
parish  clerk  in  that  his  day.  .  .  .  Ever 
since  I  arrived  at  tlie  age  of  discretion, 
I  had  a  call  to  take  upon  me  the  function 
of  a  parish  clerk  ;  and  to  that  end  it 
seemed  to  me  meetaid  profitable  to  as- 
sociate myself  with  the  parish  clerks  of 
this  land,  —  such,  I  mean,  as  were  right 
worthy  in  their  calling,  and  of  becom- 
ing gravity.  Now  it  came  to  pass  that  I 
was  born  in  the  year  of  our  Lord.  Anno 
Domini,  1655,  the  year  wiierein  our  wor- 
thy benefactor  Esquire  Bret  did  add  oi;e 
bell  to  the  ring  of  this  parish.  So  that 
it  hath  been  wittily  said,  that  '  one  and 
the  same  day  did  give  to  this  our  church 
two  rare  gifts,  —  its  great  bell,  and  its 
clerk.' '' 

Those  who  were  placed  around  it  [adhincr- 
tablc]  had  those  fccliiifrs  of  awe  with  wliich 
P.  P.,  Clerk  ot'  the  I'dvisli,  described  himself 
oppressed,  when  lie  first  uplifted  the  psalm  in 
presence  of  those  persons  fif  Jii^h  worship,  the 
wise  Mr.  Justice  Freeiii;ui,  the  ;;ood  Lady 
Jones,  and  the  great  Sir  Thomas  Triibv. 

Sir  K".  Srott. 

The  example  of  the  famous  "P.  P.,  Clerk 
ofthU  Parish  "  was  never  more  faithfully  fol- 
lowed. Jlawthome. 

Interspersed  also  are  long,  purely  autobio- 
graphical delineations,  yet  without  connec- 
tion, without  recornizable  coherence;  bo  un- 
important, so  Bupcrfluously  minute,  they  al- 
most remind  us  of  "P. 'P.,  Clerk  of  this 
Parish."  Carlyle. 

Pragmatic  Sanction.  {Hist.)  A 
decree  by  Avhich,  in  the  year  1713, 
Charles  VI.,  emperor  of  tiermany, 
and  the  last  descendant  in  the  male 
line  of  the  house  of  Austria,  settled 
his  dominions  on  his  daughter,  the 
Archduchess  Maria  Theresa,  wife  of 
Francis  ot"  Lorraine.  Her  succession 
Avas   guaranteed    bv    Great    Britain, 


ftad  for  the  Kemarks  and  Bulea  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  ziv-zzxii. 


PRA 


300 


PRE 


France,  the  States  (reneral,  and  most 
of  tlie  European  powers,  and  she 
ascended  the  tin-one  in  (,)ctober,  1741) ; 
but  a  general  European  war  was  the 
result. 

jCiS^  The  term  "  Prajrmatic  Sanction  " 
is  souietimcs  applied  to  other  solemn 
ordinances  or  decrees  relating  either  to 
Church  or  State  affairs ;  but  that  by 
which  the  empire  of  Germany  was  set- 
tled in  tile  house  of  Austria  is  the  most 
celebrated  of  all. 

Prairie  State.  A  name  popularly 
given  to  Illinois,  in  allusion  to  the 
wide -spread  and  beautiful  prairies 
which  form  a  striking  leature  of  the 
scenery  of  the  State. 

Prasildo  (pra-zel'do).  A  nobleman 
of  Babylon,  in  Bqjardo's  "  Orlando 
Innamorato,"  noted  for  his  devoted 
friendship  for  Iroldo,  with  whose  wife, 
Tisbina,  he  falls  violently  in  love. 
Being  overheard  by  her  and  her 
husband  threatening  to  kill  himself, 
the  lady,  hoping  to  divert  him  from 
his  passion  by  time  and  absence,  prom- 
ises to  return  it  on  condition  of  his 
performing  a  distant  and  perilous 
adventure.  He  pertbrms  the  adven- 
ture; and  the  husband  and  wife,  sup- 
posing that  there  is  no  other  way  of 
her  escaping  the  consequences,  resolve 
to  take  poison;  after  which  the  lady 
goes  to  Prasildo's  house,  and  informs 
him  of  their  having  done  so.  Prasildo 
resolves  to  die  with  them;  but  hear- 
ing, in  the  mean  time,  that  the  apoth- 
ecary had  given  them  a  drink  that 
was  harmless,  he  goes  and  tells  them 
of  their  good  fortune;  upon  which 
the  hus!)and  is  so  struck  with  his 
generosity,  that  he  voluntarily  quits 
Babylon  for  life,  and  the  lady  marries 
the  l(jver.  The  new  husband  subse- 
quently hears  that  his  I'riend's  life  is 
in  danger,  and  quits  the  wife  to  go 
and  deliver  him  from  it  at  the  risk  of 
his  own. 

Preacher,  The.  A  title  sometimes 
given  to  Solomon,  "  the  son  of  David, 
king  in  Jerusalem,"  and  author  of 
the  book  of  ''  Ecclesiastes,"  — a  Avord 
which  signifies ^>reaf/te?\ 

Thus  saith   Tlic  Preacher :  "Naught  beneath 

the  sun 
Is  new;"  yet  still  from  change  to  change  we 

run.  Hyron. 


Precht,   Frau    (frow    prekt).      See 

BlilMIlA,  EltAU. 

Pr6cieuses  Ridicules,  Les  (la  pra'- 
stQiz'  reMe'kul',  ;j4,  4;j).  'Ihe  title 
of  a  comedy  by  Moliere  (1022-1673), 
and  a  name  given  to  its  heroines, 
Aminte  and  Polixene,  who  represent 
a  class  of  women  among  INloliere's 
contemporaries  remarkable  for  their 
attectation  of  extreme  politeness, 
their  high-flown  sentiments,  their 
metaphysical  conceits,  and  their  eu- 
phuistic  style  of  speaking  and  writ- 
ing. 

j^^  It  has  been  customary  to  saj-  that 
Moliere's  charming  satire  was  aimed  at 
the  Hotel  de  Itambouillet,  a  famous  cote- 
rie of  the  most  accomplished  and  illus- 
trious wits,  critics,  scholars,  and  poets, 
of  both  sexes,  to  be  found  in  Paris  dur- 
ing the  seventeenth  century  :  but  the 
notion  has  been  shown  to  be  utterly 
groundless.  In  its  original  acceptation, 
the  word  prccieusf  was  an  honorable 
designation,  signifying  a  woman  who,  to 
grace  and  dignity  of  manner,  added  ele- 
gance and  culture  of  mind.  It  was  there- 
fore applied  with  perfect  propriety  to  the 
brilliant  and  cultivated  ladies  of  the 
Ilambouillct  circle.  But.  in  the  course 
of  time,  grotesque  imitations  of  the  man- 
ners and  style  of  tlie  Hotel  became  prev- 
alent botli  in  Paris  and  the  jirovinces, 
and  the  epithet  consequently  took  on  a 
tinge  of  reproach  or  contempt. 

PrSs'ter  John.  [That  is,  the  Priest, 
or  the  Presbyter.  John.]  The  name 
given,  in  the  Middle  Ages,  to  a  sup- 
posed Christian  sovereign  and  ]'riest 
in  the  interior  of  Asia,  Avhose  domin- 
ions were  variously  ])laced.  The 
story  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the 
fact  that  the  Nestorian  missionaries, 
in  the  eleventh  or  twelfth  century, 
penetrated  into  Eastern  Asia,  and 
converted  Ung  (or  Ungh  Khan),  the 
chief  of  the  Kerait,  or  Krit,  i'arlars. 
This  name  they  corrupted  or  trans- 
lated into  Prester  John,  Fit;/  being 
turned  into  "  Jachanan,"  or  "John," 
and  KIkiii  being  rendered  by"  Priest." 
His  fame  spread  to  Europe,  and  not 
only  furnished  the  material  of  num- 
berless medi;cval  legends,  but  supplied 
the  occasion  of  several  missionar}' ex- 
peditions to  the  East. 

I  will  go  on  tho  lizhtest  errand  now  to  the 
Antipodes  that  you  can  devise  to  send  nie  on; 
I  will  fetch  you  a  tooth-picker  now  from  the 


For  the    "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   Explanation^ 


PRE 


301 


PRI 


ftirthest  inch  of  Asia;  brin^  you  the  length 
of  Prester  Jo/in's  foot;  fcteli  you  a  hair  of  the 
great  Cham's  beard;  do  you  any  embassage 
fo  the  Pygmies,  —  rather  tlian  hold  tlireo 
words'  conference  with  this  harpy.  iShah. 

Pres'to.  [It.  and  Sp.,  quick,  nimble, 
swift,  from  Lat.  j>neslus,  ready.]  A 
naniL'  yiven  to  Swift  by  the  Duchess 
of  Shrewsbury,  who,  being  a  for- 
ei,u;iu'r,  could  not  remember  the  Eng- 
lish word  siolft.  The  sobriquet  is 
frequently  used  in  Swift's  "  Journal 
to  SteUa."     See  Stella. 

Pretenders,  The.  James  Francis 
Edward  Stuart,  son  of  James  II., 
and  Charles  Edward  Stuart,  grand- 
son of  James  II. ;  called  respectively, 
the  E^Ider  and  the  Younger  Pretender. 
By  the  forced  abdication  and  flight 
of  James  II.,  in  IG88,  the  crown  of 
England  passed  to  William,  Prince 
of  Orange  (who  was  the  son  of  Mary, 
daughter  of  Charles  I.),  and  to  Mary, 
his  \vife  (who  was  the  daughter  of 
James  II.,  and  consequently  cousin 
to  William).  The  Acts  of  Settlement 
passed  in  the  reign  of  William  III. 
(A.  1).  1701  and  ""1708)  secured  the 
succession  of  the  house  of  Hanover 
to  the  English  throne.  The  Elder 
Pretender  made  some  vain  attempts 
to  recover  the  kingdom,  but  surren- 
dered his  claims,  in  174-3,  to  his  son, 
Charles  P^dward,  the  Younger  Pre- 
tender, who,  in  the  following  year, 
invaded  Great  Britain  from  France, 
and  fought  gallantly  for  the  throne 
of  his  ancestors,  but  was  signally 
defeated  at  Culloden,  in  174(5,  and 
compelled  to  escape  to  the  Continent. 

Prettyman,  Prince.  See  Prince 
Pkkttyman. 

Pri'am.  [Eat.  Priamus,  Gr.  Tlpia/uo?.] 
{(jr.  c/-  R<»)i.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Laom- 
edon,  and  the  last  king  of  Troy  ; 
husband  of  Hecuba,  and  father  of 
Hector,  Helenus,  Paris,  Deiphobus, 
Polyxena,  Troilus,  Cassandra,  &c. 
He  was  slain  by  Pyrrhus,  the  son  of 
Achilles,  the  same  night  on  which 
Troy  was  taken  by  the  Greeks. 

Pri-a'pus.  [Gr.  lipJaTro?.]  {Gr.  (f- 
Roiii.  Mtjfli.)  The  god  of  ]iro(Tea- 
tion  in  general,  or  a  deified  personifi- 
cation of  the  fructifying  principle  in 
nature.     He  was  worshiped  particu- 


larly as  the  god  of  gardens  and  vine- 
yards, aiul  of  whatever  ])crtains  to 
agriculture.  He  is  variously  described 
as  the  son  of  Ad(jnis  and  Venus,  of 
Bacchus  and  Venus,  and  of  Mercury 
and  Chione. 

Pride's  Purge.  {Enrj.  Hist.)  A  name 
given  to  a  violent  invasion  of  parlia- 
mentary rights,  in  K)4'.),  by  Colonel 
Pride,  who,  at  the  head  of  two  regi- 
ments, surrounded  the  house  of  com- 
mons, and  seized  in  the  i)assage  tbrty- 
one  members  of  the  Presbyterian 
part}^  whom  he  confined.  Above 
one  hundred  and  sixty  others  were 
excluded,  and  none  admitted  but 
the  most  furious  and  determined  of 
the  Independents.  These  privileged 
members  were  called  "  The  Kump." 

Prid'win.  The  name  of  Arthur's 
shield,  on  which  the  picture  of  the 
blessed  Virgin  Marj^  was  painted,  in 
order  to  put  him  frequently  in  mind 
of  her.     [Written  also  P  r  i  w  e  n.] 

The  temper  of  his  sword,  the  tried  Excalibor, 
The  bigness    and    the    length  of  Rone,  his 

noble  spear, 
"With  J'rii/icin,  his  great  shield,  and  what  the 

proof  could  bear.  Drcnjton. 

Primrose,  George.  A  character  in 
Goldsmith's  "  Vicar  of  Wakefield," 
who  went  to  Amsterdam  to  teach 
Dutchmen  English,  without  recollect- 
ing, until  he  landed,  that  he  should 
first  know  something  of  Dutch  him- 
self. 

Primrose,  Moses.  A  character  in 
Goldsmith's  "  Vicar  of  Wakefield;"' 
celebrated  for  his  quiet  pedantry  and 
blundering  sim]dicity,  and  especially 
for  having  bartered  away  a  good 
horse  for  a  gross  of  worthless  green 
spectacles  with  tortoise-shell  rims  and 
shagreen  casern. 

As  for  myself,  I  expect  to  rival  honest  Prim- 
ro»c''g  son  Moses  iu  his  great  bargain  of  tho 
green  spectacles.  JI'.  Irving. 

Primrose,  Mrs.  Deborah.  The  wife 
of  the  vicar,  in  Goldsmith's  novel, 
"The  Vicar  of  Wakefield."  She  is 
distinguished  for  her  boasted  skill  in 
housewiferv',  her  motherly  vanity,  her 
pride  in  her  husband,  and  her  desire 
to  appear  genteel. 

Thackeray's  works,  like  Mrs.  T'rimrose^s 
"wedding  "gown,"  wear  well,  though  they 
may  not  at  once  captivate  the  fancy. 

C7irist.  Examiner. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rulet  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


PRI 


302 


PRI 


Primrose,  Olivia.  A  lovely  and 
beloved  child  of  Doctor  Priiurose,  in 
Goldsinitlis  "  Vicar  of  Wakelield." 

Primrose,  Sophia.  A  beautiful 
daughter  of  Doctor  Primrose,  in 
"The  Vicar  of  Waketield." 

Primrose,  The  Rev.  Doctor.  The 
vicar,  ill  (johlsmitirs  "Vicarof Wake- 
field;" celebrated  for  the  simplicity 
of  his  character,  and  for  his  siipjKirt 
of  the  Whistoiiian  theory  in  regard 
to  marriage,  that  it  is  unlawful  for  a 
priest  of  the  Church  of  England,  atter 
the  death  of  his  tirst  wife,  to  take  a 
second.  His  weaknesses,  however, 
it  has  been  well  said,  '•  only  serve  to 
endear  him  more  closely  to  his  read- 
ers; and  when  distress  falls  upon  the 
virtuous  household,  the  noble  forti- 
tude and  resignation  of  the  princijjal 
sufferer,  and  the  etFicacy  of  his  ex- 
ample, form  one  of  the  most  affecting 
and  even  sublime  moral  pictures." 

/E^  '•  Wh;it  reader  is  there  in  the  civ- 
ilized world  who  is  not  the  better  for  the 
story  of  the  w;i.shes  which  the  wortliy  Dnc- 
tor  Primrose  demolished  so  deliberately 
with  the  poker  ;  for  the  kuowledj^e  of  the 
guinea  whicix  the  Miss  Primroses  kept 
unchanged  in  their  pockets  ;  the  adven- 
ture of  the  picture  of  the  vicar's  family, 
which  could  not  be  got  into  the  house, 
and  that  of  the  Flamborongh  family,  all 
painted  with  oranges  in  their  hands;  or 
for  the  story  of  the  case  of  green  specta- 
cles and  the  cosmogony  ?  "  Hazlitt. 

The  Colonel  bowed  and  smiled  with  very 

f)leasant  jrood-nature  at  our  plaiuht.-;.  Itwns 
ike  Doctor  rriinro.<fe  prcachiii.i;  his  sermon  in 
the  prison.  There  was  soniethiiig  tonchinij 
in  the  iiuiveU^  and  kindness  of  the  placid  and 
eimple  gentleman.  Thackeray. 

Prince  Ah'med.  A  character  in  the 
"Arabian  Nights'  Entertainments," 
in  the  story  of  "  Prince  Ahmed  and 
the  fairy  Paribanou."  He  purchases 
in  Samarcand  an  artificial  apple,  the 
smell  of  which  has  power  to  cure  all 
kinds  of  disorders.     See  Paribanou. 

It  proves  only  this;  that  laws  have  no  mag- 
ical or  supernatnral  virtne;  that  laws  do  not 
act  like  .  .  .  Prince  Ahtiied's  apple. 

JIacaulat/. 

Prince  Alasnam.     See  Alasnam. 

Prince  Beder.    See  Queen  Labe. 

Prince  Cam'a-ral'za-mS,n.  A  char- 
acter in  the    "  Arabian   Xi'^its'  En- 


tertainments," in  the  story  of  "  Prince 
(  aniaralzaman  and  the  Princess  Ba- 
doura." 

As  for  Colonel  Thomas  Newcome  and  hit 
niece,  they  fell  in  love  with  each  other  in- 
stantaneously, like  J'rince  Camaralzatuan  anA 
the  princess  of  China.  Thackeray. 

Prince  Cherry.  [Fr.  Le  Prince 
Clii.'ri,  Prince  Beloved.]  The  hero 
of  a  nurseiy  story,  originally  wTitten 
in  French  by  Mme.  iJ'Aunoy.  He 
is  represented  as  the  sovereign  of  a 
great  empire,  who,  for  his  cruelty  and 
other  vices,  was  transformed  by  a  kind 
guardian  fairy  into  a  frightful  mon- 
ster, until  he  had  learned  to  conquer 
his  evil  passions,  and  had  proved  him- 
self worthy  to  wear  his  crown  again. 

Prince  Hous'siin.  A  character  in 
the  story  of  "  Prince  Ahmed  and  the 
fairy  Paribanou,"  in  the  "Aral)ian 
Nights'  P^ntertainments;  "  the  eldest 
brother  of  Prince  Ahmed.  He  pos- 
sessed a  piece  of  carpeting  of  very 
indifferent  appearance,  but  of  such  a 
Avonderful  quality  that  any  one  who 
simply  sat  on  it  ccuild  be  trans|)orted 
in  an  instant  whithersoever  he  de- 
sired. 

Whether  the  rapid  pace  at  which  the  fancr 
movetli  in  such  exercitations,  where  the  wish 
of  the  penman  i.s  to  him  like  Prince  llous- 
saia's  tapestry,  in  the  Eastern  fable,  be  the 
chief  Fource  of  peril, —  .  .  .  this  question  be- 
longeth  not  to  me.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

He  [Prince  Le  Boo]  had  lost  all  usual  marks 
for  comparing  difficult  and  easy;  and,  if 
Prince  Jfnitssain'x  flying  tapestry  or  Astol- 
pho'shippogritf  had' been  shown,  he  would 
havejudgcd  of  them  by  the  ordinary  rules  of 
convenience,  and  preferred  a  snug  comer  in  a 
well-hung  chariot.  Sir  }V.  Scott. 

Prince  of  Artists.  A  title  often  giv- 
en by  the  Germans  to  Albert  Dhrer 
(147i-1528),  a  celebrated  painter, 
sculptor,  and  engraver.  He  is  said 
to  have  invented  the  art  of  etching, 
and  he  carried  wood-engraving  to  a 
degree  of  excellence  that  has  hardly 
been  surpassed. 

Prince  of  Coxcombs.  A  sobriquet 
given  to  Charles  Joseph,  Prince  de 
Eigne  (17;J5-i8i4). 

Prince  of  Darkness.  A  title  often 
given  to  Satan. 

The  Prince  of  Darkness  is  a  gentleman. 

Shak. 
lie  was  treated  as  one  who,  having  sinned 


0^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


PRI 


303 


PHI 


against  light,  was,  therefore,  deservedly  left  a 

prey  to  the  Friiicc  uf  Ddikiass.     Sir  \\ .  Scott. 

E*rince  of  Destruction.  A  name 
conferred  u])oii  Tainerluiie,  or  Tiinoiir 
(1335-1405),  one  ol'  tiie  most  cele- 
brated ot"  Oriental  eontjiieror!^,  who 
overrun  Persia,  rarlary,and  llindos- 
tan,  his  conquests  extending  troni  the 
Volga  to  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  from 
the  Ganges  to  the  Archipelago.  He 
was  oidy  jjrevented  by  the  want  of 
shipping  from  crossing  into  Europe. 
He  died  Just  as  he  was  making  vast 
preparations  for  the  invasion  of  China. 
No  con(piests  were  ever  attended 
with  greater  cruelty,  devastation,  and 
waste  of  lil'e. 

Prince   of  Grammarians.      1.    See 

CoKYl'II.EUS  OF  GkAIMMAKIANS. 

2.  Apollonius  of  Alexandria  (d. 
B.  c.  240),  denominated  by  Priscian, 
"  Grammaticorum  i^rinceps."  He 
was  the  first  who  reduced  grammar 
to  a  system. 

Prince  of  Liars.  A  name  applied 
to  Ferdinand  Mendez  Pinto,  a  cele- 
brated Portuguese  traveler  of  the 
sixteenth  century.  He  published  an 
account  of  his  travels,  full  of  extrav- 
agant tictions,  which  have  caused 
him  to  be  classed  with  Munchausen. 
The  epithet  was  originally  conferred 
upon  him  by  Cervantes. 

Prince  of  Peace.  A  title  often  given 
to  the  Saviour,  who  came  "  not  to 
destroy  men's  lives,  but  to  save 
them,"  and  who  proclaimed,  "  Blessed 
are  the  peace-makers;  for  they  shall 
be  called  the  children  of  God.''  See 
Jsn.  ix.  G. 

Prince  of  Physicians.  A  title  given 
to  Avicenna  ('J8U-1037),  a  famous 
Arabian  philosopher  and  physician. 
His  system,  a  kind  of  logical  al- 
chemy, was  founded  on  the  supposi- 
tion that  the  operations  of  nature  are 
in  perfect  correlation  with  those  of 
the  human  spirit. 

Prince  of  Poets.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  Edmund  Spenser  (1553- 
1598),  the  admired  author  of  the 
"Faery  Queen."  He  is  so  termed 
in  the  inscription  on  his  monument 
in  Westminster  Abbey;  and  though, 
at  the  present  day,  the  fitness  ot  the 


appellation  may  bp  doubted,  it  is 
thought  by  some  that  "  his  pootry  is 
the  most  poetical  of  all  poetry." 

Prince  of  Spanish  Poetry.  A  name 
otten  applied  to  (.arcila>o  de  la  Vega 
(i503-i53(j),  a  celebrated  .^j.anish 
poet,  tor  whom  his  countrymen  ex- 
press an  admiration  such  as  they 
give  to  none  of  his  predecessors,  and 
to  few  of  those  who  have  lived  since 
his  time.  It  occurs  repeatedly  in 
Cervantes. 

j8@=  "  This  title,  -which  can  be  traced 
back  to  Ilerrera,  and  has  been  continued 
down  to  our  own  times,  has,  perhaps, 
rarely  been  taken  literally. "         2'icknor. 

Prince  of  the  Apostles.  An  hon- 
orary title  bestowed  upon  St.  Peter, 
from  the  supposed  pre-eminence  as- 
cribed to  him  m  Matt.  xvi.  18,  19,  — 
upon  which  verses  the  claims  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  church  are  Ibunded. 
In  the  plural,  the  expression  is  ap- 
plied to  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul. 

Tlie  Irish,  regardless  of  the  true  history  of 
Patricijis,  want  to  make  St.  Patrick  a  name- 
sake of  St.  Peter,  and  make  all  tl  eir  Paddies 
own  not  only  tlieir  national  apostle,  but  the 
Prhice  of  Apostha,  for  their  patrons.      Yonge. 

Prince  of  the  Ode.  A  title  given  to 
Pierre  de  Ponsard  (1524-1585),  a  cel- 
ebrated French  lyric  poet. 

Prince  of  the  Peace.  A  title  given, 
in  1795,  by  Charles  IV.  of  Spain  to 
his  prime  minister,  Don  Manuel  de 
Godoy  (17G7-1851),  on  account  of 
his  separating  Spain  from  England, 
and  forming  an  oflensive  and  defen- 
sive alliance  with  France,  the  same 
year,  after  having  previously  de- 
clared war  against  the  latter  coun- 
try. 

Prince  of  the  Power  of  the  Air.  A 

name  given  to  Satan  in  Lj/h.  ii.  2: 
"  Wherein  in  time  past  ye  walked 
according  to  the  course  of  this  world, 
according  to  the  prince  of  the  pOAvei 
of  the  air,  the  spirit  that  now  work- 
eth  in  the  children  of  disobedience." 

Prince  of  the  Sonnet.  A  title  be- 
stowed upon  Joachim  du  Bellay 
(1524-1560),  a  distinguished  French 
poet. 

Prince  Prettyman.  A  character  in 
the    Duke  of   Buckingham's   farce, 


and  for  the  Reniai-ks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


PRI 


304 


PRO 


"  The  Rehearsal,"  in  love  with  Clo- 
ris.  lie  lij^ures  sometimes  as  a  tish- 
er's  soil,  sometimes  as  a  prinee,  mueli 
to  his  own  distress,  lie  is  said  to 
have  l)e(.'n  intended  as  a  parody  npon 
the  cliarueter  of  i-eonidas  in  Dryden's 
"Marriage  ii-la-Mode." 

J'liiicf  I'rcttiniKDi,  now  a  i)rince,  and  now  a 
fisher's  son,  h;i(l  not  a  more  awkward  sense 
ofhis  dejjrudation.  Sir  W.  .Scott. 

Princess  Fair-Star.  [Fr.  La  Prhi- 
cess(^  /Jcl/e-J-ydile.]  The  lady-love  of 
Prince  Cherry.     See  Pkince  Cheu- 

KY. 

Prince  VoPsci-us.  A  military  hero 
in  Biickini^liani's  play,  ''The  Re- 
hearsal." lie  falls  ill  love  with  a  fair 
damsel  named  Partlienope,  and  dis- 
putes with  I'rinec  Prettyman  about 
her,  m  iiiitainin<^  her  superiority  to 
Cloris,  the  latter's  sweetheart. 

Unlikely  as  it  all  was,  I  could  not  help  sus- 
pecting from  the  beginning  that  there  waj  a 
firl  in  tlie  case.     Why,  tliis  is  worse  than 
'rince  Vulscius  in  love!  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Prisoner  of  ChilTSn  ( Fr.  pron.  she'- 
yo'i',  02,  82).  An  appellation  .some- 
times given  to  Francois  de  Bonni- 
vard  (1490-1570),  a  Frenchman  re- 
siding in  Geneva,  who  made  himself 
obnoxious  to  Charles  III.,  duke  of 
Savoy,  —  who  had  become  in  a  man- 
ner master  of  Geneva,  —  and  was 
immured  by  him  for  six  years  in  a 
dungeon  of  the  Chateau-de-Chillon, 
a  fortified  castle  at  the  eastern  end 
of  the  Lake  of  Geneva.  At  the  ex- 
piration of  that  time,  he  was  released 
by  the  Bernese,  who  were  at  war 
with  Savoy,  and  had  gained  posses- 
sion of  the  fortress.  On  the  fact  of 
Bonnivard's  imprisonment  here,  and 
on  certain  traditions  of  the  residents 
in  the  vicinity,  Byron  founded  his 
affecting  narrative  poem  of  "  The 
Prisoner  of  Cliillon;"  but  the  addi- 
tional circumstance  of  two  brothers 
of  Boimivard  having  been  imprisoned 
with  him,  and  dying  in  consequence 
of  their  conlinoment  and  sufferings, 
has  no  foundation  except  in  the  imaij- 
ination  of  the  poet,  and  was  probably 
suggested  by  Dante's  Count  Ugolino 
and  his  two  sons.     See  Ugolino. 

Priuli  (pre-oo'lee).  A  character  in 
Otway's    tragedy  of  "  Venice   Pre- 


served;" noted  for  his  pride,  and 
his  harsh,  unnatural  cruelty  to  his 
daugliter. 

Priwen.     See  Pkidwin. 

Pro'cris.  [(ir.  Ilp6/<pt?.]  {Or.  (f 
Ituiii.  Mi/th.)  A  daughter  of  Erech- 
theus,  king  of  Athens,  and  wife  of 
Cei)halus,  wlio  shot  her  in  a  wood, 
having  mistaken  her  for  a  wild  beast. 
She  was  turned  into  a  star  by  Jupi- 
ter. 

Pro-crus'tes.  [Gr.  XipoKpoucmj?,  the 
stretcher.]  "(Gr.  if  Earn.  Myth.)  The 
surname  of  a  noted  highwayman  of 
Attica,  named  Polypemon,  or  Damas- 
tes.  He  used  to  tie  travelers  who  fell 
into  his  hands  upon  a  bed,  and  ac- 
commodate them  to  the  length  of  it 
by  stretching  or  lopping  off  their 
limbs,  as  the  case  required. 

Profound  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Pro- 
fundus.] 1.  A  title  given  to  Thomas 
Bradwardine  (d.  1349),  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  and  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  and  learned  of  the 
English  schoolmen. 

2.  An  appellation  of  Richard  Mid- 
dleton  (d.  1-J04),  an  English  scholas- 
tic divine.     See  Solid  Doctor. 

Prog'ne.  [Gr.  npoKVT].]  (  Gr.  cj"-  liiun. 
Mijth.)  The  daughter  of  the  Athe- 
nian king  Pandion,  the  sister  of 
Philomela,  and  the  Avite  of  Tereus; 
changed  into  a  swallow  by  the  gods. 
See  Tekeus. 

Pro-me'theus  (28).  [Gr.  npoMT?9ev'5.] 
{Gr.  if  Rom.  ^fyth.)  A  son  of  lapetus 
and  Clymene,  the  brother  of  Epime- 
theus,  and  the  father  of  Deucalion. 
He  made  men  of  clay,  and  animated 
them  by  means  of  fire  which  he  stole 
from  heaven ;  for  this  he  was  chained 
by  Jupiter  to  Mount  Caucasus,  where 
an  eagle,  or,  as  some  say,  a  vulture, 
preyed  by  day  upon  his  liver,  which 
grew  again  by  night.    See  Pandora. 

Like  the  thief  of  fire  from  heaven 
Wilt  thou  withstand  the  shock. 

And  share  with  him,  the  unforgiven, 
His  vulture  and  his  rock. 

Byron,  Ode  to  Xapoleon. 

Promised  IJand.  A  name  often  giv- 
en to  Canaan,  or  that  portion  of  Pal- 
estine lying  west  of  the  river  Jor- 
dan, which  was  repeatedly  promised 


For  the  "Key  to    the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompany'ng  Explanation^ 


PRO 


305 


PRO 


by  Jehovah  to  the  patriarchs  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  and  Jacob.  See  O'tw. 
xii.  7,  xiii.  15,  xxviii.  13,  xxxv.  12. 

Prophet  of  the  Syrians.  A  title 
given  to  Kphraem  Syrus  (d.  '378),  a 
celebrated  lather  of  the  Cliurch  of  tiic 
Antiochian  school. 

Pros'er-pine.  [Lat.  Proserpina,  Gr. 
IItpo-e(/)orTj.]  {Or.  cf  Earn.  Mytli.) 
The  (hiii>j:Iiter  of  Jupiter  and  Ceres, 
and  wife  of  Pluto,  who  carried  her 
otF  to  the  under-world  as  she  was 
gathering  flowers  in  Sicily.  See 
Pl.ut<  ). 

Forgive,  if  some  while  I  forget. 
In  woe  to  come,  tlie  present  bliss; 

As  fiiglitcd  l'roscr]>inc  let  ftill 
Her  flowers  at  sight  of  l>is.  Hood. 

Prosperity  Rob'in-son  (-sn).  A 
nickname  given  to  Frederick  Robin- 
son (aftei'wards  Viscount  Goderich 
and  Earl  of  Kipon),  chancellor  of  the 
exchequer  in  1823.  Just  before  the 
commercial  crisis  which  occurred  in 
1825,  he  boasted  of  the  great  pros- 
perity of  the  country^  derived,  he 
said,  from  the  vast  number  of  joint- 
stock  companies,  which,  he  argued, 
showed  a  superabundance  of  wealth. 
The  general  financial  distress  and 
ruin  which  occurred  shortly  after,  and 
which  amounted  almost  to  national 
bankruptcy,  proved  the  fallacy  of 
the  chancellor's  opinion ;  Avhereupon 
Cobbett  gave  him  the  sobriquet  of 
"  Prosperity  Robinson."  [Called  also 
Goosey  Goderich.J 

Pros'pe-ro.  One  of  the  principal 
characters  in  Shakespeare's  "Tem- 
pest." Prospero  is  the  rightful  duke 
of  Milan,  who,  having  been  dispos- 
sessed of  his  dukedom  by  his  brother 
Antonio  and  the  king  of  Naples,  is 
carried  to  sea,  and  there  set  adrift 
with  his  daughter  Miranda,  in  a 
"rotten  carcass  of  a  boat."  He  for- 
tunately reaches  an  uninhabited  isl- 
and, where  he  betakes  himself  to  the 
practice  of  magic  (an  art  which  he 
had  studied  in  Milan);  and,  having 
raised  a  tempest,  in  which  Antonio, 
the  king  of  Naples,  and  others,  are 
completely  shipwrecked  upon  the  isl- 
and, he  secretly  subjects  them  to 
many  discomforts  by  way  of  punish- 
ment, but  finally  discovers  himself. 


forgives  his  brother  and  the  kin^, 
and  provides  for  their  safe  and  speedy 
return,  with  that  of  their  followers, 
accompanying  them  himself,  with  his 
(laughter,  of  whom  Ferdinand,  the 
king's  son,  has  already  become  en- 
amored. This  (lone,  Prospero  re- 
nounces his  magic  arts. 

j6f^  •'■Prospero,  with  liis  iiiafjical  pow- 
ers, his  superhuman  wisdom,  his  moral 
worth  and  j^randeur,  and  his  kingly  dig- 
nity, is  one  of  ttie  most  sublime  visions 
that  ever  swept,  with  ample  robes,  pale 
brow,  and  sceptered  hand,  before  the 
eye  of  fancy.  lie  controls  the  invisible 
world,  and  works  through  the  agency  of 
spirits,  not  by  any  evil  and  forbidden 
compact,  but  solely  by  superior  might  of 
intellect,  by  potent  spells  gathered  from 
the  lore  of  ages,  and  abjured  when  he 
mingles  again  as  a  man  with  bis  fellow- 
men.  He  is  as  distinct  a  being  from  the 
necromancere  and  astrologers  celobrated 
in  Shakespeare's  age  as  can  well  be  im- 
agined ;  and  all  the  wizards  of  poetry  and 
fiction,  even  Faust  and  St.  Leon,  sink 
into  commonplaces  before  the  princely, 
the  philosophic,  the  benevolent  Prospe- 
ro." Mrs.  Jameson. 

Although  he  [Maturin]  has  threatened,  like 
Prospero,  to  break  his  wand,  we  have  done 
our  poor  endeavor  to  save  his  book  from  being 
burned.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

His  existence  was  a  bright,  soft  element  of 
joy,  out  of  which,  as  in  Frospero's  isl:.nd, 
wonder  after  wonder  bodied  itself  forth,  to 
teach  by  charming.  Carli/Ic. 

PrO-teS'i-la'uS.         [Gr.     IIpooreo-tAaoT.] 

(Gr.  (/  Bom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Iplii- 
cles,  and  the  husband  of  Laodamia. 
He  went  to  the  siege  of  Tro3%  and 
was  the  first  Avho  landed,  but  fell  by 
the  hand  of  Hector.  His  dead  body 
being  sent  home  to  Laodamia,  she 
prayed  to  be  allowed  to  converse 
w^ith  him  for  three  hours  only.  Her 
prayer  was  granted,  Mercury  con- 
ducted Protesiiaus  to  the  upper  world, 
and,  when  he  died  a  second  time, 
Laodamia  expired  with  him. 

Protestant  Duke.  A  name  given  by 
his  contemporarv  admirers  to  James, 
Duke  of  jronniouth  (IGlO-lf.SS),  a 
natural  son  of  Charles  IL  Though 
brought  up  as  a  Catholic,  he  em- 
braced Protestantism,  and  became 
the  idol  of  the  English  people,  —  es- 
pecially of  the  Non-conformists, — 
and  a  formidable  rival  of  the  Duke 
of  York  (aftenvard  James  IL),  whose 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxU. 
20 


PRO 


306 


PUC 


lie  ['Boswcll]  wa3  a  slave  p^'id  of  hh  servi- 
tude, a  I'dul  Pry,  convinced  that  liis  own 
curiosity  and  garrulity  were  virtues. 

Macaulay. 

Prynne,  Hester.  A  character  in 
llawllionif's  romance,  "The  Scarlet 
Letter,'  whose  singular  punishment 
gives  name  to  the  story. 

Psy'che  (si'ke,  2G).  [Gr.  -^vxri,  breath, 
spirit,  soul.]  (  (Jr.  cf  Rum.  Myth.)  A 
beautiful  maiden  beloved  by  ('ujiid, 
•who  visited  her  only  in  the  night, 
and  Avarned  her  not  to  seek  to  know 
•who  he  was.  She  violated  the  injunc- 
tion, and  hapjiening  to  let  a  drop  of 
hot  oil  from  the  lamp  she  had  lighted 
fall  upon  his  shoulder,  he  awoke,  up- 
braided her  for  lier  mistrust,  and  van- 
i.shed.  He  finally  forgave  her,  ho-sv- 
ever,  and  they  were  united  in  immor- 
tal wedlock. 

Public  Good,  League  of  the.  See 
League  of  the  Public  Good. 

Publi-us.  A  nam  de  plume  under 
Avhich  Alexander  Hamilton  (1757- 
1804)  wrote  his  celebrated  contribu- 
tions to  "  The  Federalist." 

Pu-celle',  La  (Fr.  prcm.  pu'sel',  34). 
[Fr.,  the  Maid.]  A  surname  given 
to  the  celebrated  Joan  of  Arc  (1410- 
1431).    See  Maid  of  Orleans. 

Puck.  Originally,  the  name  of  a 
liend;  subsequently,  the  name  for 
that  "merry  wanderer  of  the  night," 
styled  also  Rubin  GuodfdUnc,  who 
plays  so  conspicuous  a  part  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Midsummer-Night's 
Dream."  Ruy-,  in  Ben  Jonson's  play 
called  "  The  Devil  is  an  Ass,"  is  evi- 
dently the  same  person,  though  Jon- 
son  makes  him  a  goblin  or  fiend,  and 
not    a    fairy.       See    Goodfellow, 

KOBIN. 

S^  "Tn  truth,  it  is  first  in  Shake- 
speare that  we  find  Puck  confounded 
with  the  house  spirit,  and  havinjr  those 
traits  of  character  which  are  now  re- 
garded as  his  very  essence,  and  have 
caused  his  name  Pug  to  be  given  to  the 
agile,  mischievous  monkey,  and  to  a 
kind  of  little  dog."  Keig/itley. 

jfi?^  "  Who  that  has  read  the  play  ['  A 
Midsummer  Nights  Dream  ']  (and  who 
has  not?)  cannot  call  the  urchin  before 
his  mind's  e\e  as  instantly  as  Oheron 
commanded  his  real  presence,  —  a  rough. 

aa^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanations, 


Catholicism  and  arbitrary  disposition 
rendered  him  very  unpopular. 

Protestant  Pope.  An  appellation 
ccjnferred  upon  Pope  Clement  XIV. 
((iian  Viufcnz-o  ( iaiiganrlli,  170.")- 
1774),  a  i)onlitf  distinguished  for  his 
enlightened  and  liberal  policy,  and 
for  his  Bull  suppressing  the  Jesuits. 

Pro'teiis  (28).  [Gr.  ilpajrevs.]  1.  {Gi\ 
tf  Rum.  Mtjtit.)  A  sea-god,  son  of 
Oceanus  and  Tethys,  residing  usu- 
ally in  the  Carpathian  Sea,  between 
Rhodes  and  Crete.  He  possessed  the 
gift  of  prophecy,  and  also  the  power 
of  changing  himself  into  different 
shapes. 

He  [Voltaire]  was  all  fire  and  fickleness;  a 

child. 
Most  mutable  in  wishes,  but  in  mind 
A  wit  as  various,  —  Kay,  grave,  sajrc,  or  wild,  — 
Historian,  b.xrd,  philosopher,  combined; 
lie  multiplied  himself  among  mankind, 
The  Protein  of  their  talents.  Byron. 

2.  One  of  the  "  Two  Gentlemen  of 
Verona,"  in  Shakespeare's  play  of 
that  name. 

Proud  Duke.  A  name  proverbial!}' 
given  to  Charles  Seymour,  Duke  of 
Somerset,  who  died  on  the  12th  of 
August,  1748,  and  who  was  noted  for 
his  boundless  pride,  and  the  fantastic 
exhibitions  which  he  used  to  make 
of  his  title  and  station.  It  is  said 
that  he  would  never  suffer  any  of  his 
children  to  sit  in  his  presence,  and 
that  to  his  servants  he  deigned  to 
speak  only  by  signs. 

Proud'fute,  Oliver.  A  boasting 
bonnet-maker,  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's 
"  Fair  Maid  of  Perth." 

Prudhomme,  M.  (mos'e-<")'  prii'dom', 
34,  43 ).  A  character  created  by  Henry 
Monier;  a  professor  of  penmanship, 
sworn  ap])raiser,  &c. 

Prudoterie,  Mme.  de  la  (priiMot''re', 
34).  A  character  in  Moliere's  com- 
edy of  "  George  Dandin." 

Pry,  Paul.  The  title  of  a  well- 
known  comedy  by  John  Poole,  and 
the  name  of  its  principal  character, 
"one  of  those  idle,  meddling  felloAvs, 
who,  having  no  employment  them- 
selves, are  perpetually  interfering  in 
other  people's  affairs." 


PUD 


307 


PUR 


knurl3'-limbed,  f.iun-faced,  shock-pated 
little  lelloA',  ji  very  .Slietlauder  tiinonj^  the 
gossauier-winged,  d.iiiitv -limbed  shapes 
around  him, and  strougeuougn  to  k;;ock 
all  their  heads  together  for  his  clvls'.i 
sport?"  R.   0.  Mliiic. 

The  mirth  of  Swift  is  the  mirth  of  Mephis- 
tophclcs;  the  mirtli  of  Voltaire  is  the  mi  t!i 
of  Puck.  JIucaula'j. 

Pudding,  Jack.  A  zany;  a  r>Ierry- 
andrew;  a  bulfoon;  a  clo^vu.  See 
Han.swurst. 

iKg-  ••  A  biiEFoon  is  called  by  every  na- 
tion by  the  name  of  the  dish  they  like 
best:  in  French,  dean  Potage,  and  i:i 
Eiighsh,  Jack  Padding.'''  Guardian. 

Ifis  [\  Idison's]  tone  is  never  that  either  of 
a  Jack  Puddiny  or  of  a  cynic.  Macuulaij. 

Puff.  A  bold  and  impudent  literary 
quack,  who  ligurcs  iu  Sheridan's 
farce  of  ""  The  Critic." 

Perhaps  not,  —  but  what  then  ?  I  may  have 
seen  her  picture,  as  Ptijf's.xys,  ...  or  fallen 
iu  love  with  her  from  rumor.        Sir  W.  Scolt. 

Mrs.  Ridcliffe  is,  indeed,  too  lavish  of  her 
landscapes,  anil  her  readers  have  frequent 
occasiiin  to  lament  that  she  CA'A  not  follow  the 
example  i>f  Mi-.  Pult'in  the  pliy,  — "I  open 
witli  a  clock  strikiii;^,  to  bc.L^ct  an  awful  at- 
tention in  tlie  audience;  it  also  marks  the 
timj,  which  is  four  o'clnck  in  the  mornin'^, 
and  saves  a  description  of  tlie  risiiv^  sun,  and 
a  "r-e  it  deal  about  gilding  the  eastern  hcnu- 
sphere."  Dunloi). 

Pum'ble-chdbk,  Uncle.  A  charac- 
ter in  Dickens's  '•  Great  Expecta- 
tions," Avho  bidlied  Pip — the  hero 
of  the  story  —  when  he  was  a  poor 
boy,  and  fawned  ou  him  Aviien  he  had 
a  prospect  of  l)ecominu;  rich.  He  i ; 
noted  for  saying-,  "  Miglit  I,  Mr.  Pip, 
—  Ma}'  I,  —  "  {scilicet,  shake  hands;. 

Punch,  or  Piinch.'I-nel'lo.  A  hu- 
morous character  iu  a  species  of  pup- 
pet-show exhibited  on  the  Italian 
stage  and  in  the  streets  of  European 
cities.  In  person  he  is  short  and  fat, 
with  an  enormous  liump  on  his  back, 
a  wide  mouth,  long  chin,  and  hooked 
nose.  His  dress  consists  of  wide 
drawers  of  white  woolen,  and  a  large 
upper  garment  of  the  same  material, 
with  wide  sleeves,  fastened  with  a 
black  leather  belt  or  hair  cord.  This 
upper  garment  is  sprinkled  over  with 
hearts  of  red  cloth,  and  is  trimmed 
round  the  bottom  with  a  fringe. 
Around  his  neck  he  wears  a  linen 
ruffle,  and  on  his  head  a  tall,  three- 


pointed  cap  terminating  in  a  red 
tuft.  The  modern  puppet-show  of 
''  Punch  and  Judy  "  embodies  a 
domestic  tragedy,  followed  by  a  su- 
pernatLU'al  retribution,  tlie  whole  of 
which  is  treated  iu  a  broadly  farcical 
manner. 

jtK5"  The  name  Pu!ich,  or  Punchinello, 
issupposetl  to  be  a  corrujitiou  of  Polici- 
nello,  or  Pidcinello,  whicli,  in  turn,  ac- 
cording to  GaUani  iu  his  •'  Vocabolario 
del  Dialetto  Napoletano,"'  was  derived 
from  Puccio  d^ AnitUo,  a  peasant,  whoso 
humorous  eccentricities  were,  in  the 
seventeenth  century,  transferred  to  the 
Neapolitan  stage,  where  he  has  contin- 
ued to  be  the  medium  of  local  and  po- 
litical satire,  and  a  favorite  conventional 
character  in  the  Italian  exhibitions  of 
fantoccini.,  or  puppet-shows. 

Pure,  Simon.  The  name  of  a  Penn- 
sylvania <)uaker  in  Mrs.  Centlivre's 
comedy,  "A  Bold  Stroke  for  a  Wite." 
Being  about  to  visit  London  to  at- 
tend the  quarterly  meeting  of  his 
sect,  his  friend,  Aminadab  Holdfast, 
sends  a  letter  of  recommendation  and 
introduction  to  another  (Quaker,  Oba- 
diah  Prim,  a  rigid  and  stern  man, 
Avho  is  guardian  of  Anne  Lovelv,  a 
young  lady  w(.rtli  £:J0,0()0.  Colonel 
Feignwell,  another  character  in  the 
same  play,  who  is  enamored  of  ]Miss 
Lovely  and  her  handsome  fortune, 
availing  himself  of  an  accidental  dis- 
covery of  Holdfast's  letter  and  of  its 
contents,  succeeds  in  passing  himself 
otf  on  Prim  as  his  expected  visitor. 
The  real  Simon  Pure,  calling  at 
Prim's  house,  is  treated  as  an  impos- 
tor, and  is  obliged  to  depart  in  order 
to  hunt  up  witnesses  who  can  testify 
to  his  identity.  Meantime,  Feign- 
well  succeeds  in  getting  from  Prim  a 
written  and  unconditional  consent  to 
his  maiTiage  with  Anne.  No  sooner 
has  he  obtained  possession  of  the 
document,  than  Simon  Pure  re-ap- 
pears with  his  witnesses,  and  Prim 
discovers  the  trick  that  has  been  put 
upon  him. 

T  nelieve  that  mnnv  who  took  the  trouble 
of  thinkint;  upon  the  suhfect  were  rather  of 
the  opinion  tint  mv  ingrenions  fi-iend  was  th« 
true,  and  not  the  flctitious,  Siinon  Pure. 

Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Purgatory,  St.  Patrick's.  See  St. 
Patkick's  Pukgatoky. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  tlie  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  Bee  pp.  xiv-xxJoL 


PUR 


108 


PYT 


Pxiritan,  The  Platonic.  See  Pla- 
tonic  rililTAN. 

Puritan  City.  A  by-name  some- 
limes  rrivou  to  the  cit}^  of  Boston, 
Massachusetts,  in  allusion  to  the 
character  of  its  founders  and  inhab- 
itants. 

Purple  Island.  The  subject  and  title 
of  a  long  and  grotesque  allegorical 
poem  by  Phineas  Fletcher,  published 
in  lG-J-3;  the  Purple  Island  represent- 
ing the  human  l)ody,  and  the  poem 
being  in  great  part  a  system  of  anat- 
oni}'. 

Puss  in  Boots.  [Fr.  Ze  Chat  BoUc.] 
The  hero  of  an  old  and  popular  nurs- 
crv'  tale  of  the  same  name,  written 
by  Perrault;  a  marvelously  accom- 
plished cat,  who,  by  his  ready  Avit 
and  ingenious  tricks,  secures  a  for- 
tune and  a  royal  consort  for  his  mas- 
ter, a  penniless  young  miller,  who 
passes  under  the  "name  of  the  Mar- 
quis of  Carabas.  This  story  is  taken 
from  the  lirst  of  the  eleventh  night 
of  Straparola,  where  the  cat  of  Con- 
stantine  procures  his  master  a  fine 
castle  and  the  heiress  of  a  king. 
The  Germans  and  the  Scandinavians 
have  a  nursery  tale  very  similar  to 
this.     See  Carabas,  Ma'kquis  of. 

Like  Puss  in  Boots,  after  the  nuptials  of  his 
master,  Jackeymo  only  now  caii^'ht  min- 
nows and  sticklebacks'  for  his  own  amuse- 
Jiient.  Sir  E.  Bulwer  Lytton. 

Pyg-maTi-on.  [Gr.  nuyjaaAitov.]  {Gi\ 
(j-  Rom.  Mi/th.)  1.  A  grandson  of 
Agenor.  He  made  a  beautiful  statue, 
which  he  fell  so  deeply  in  love  with, 
that  Venus,  at  his  earnest  petition 
gave  it  life. 

2.  A  son  of  Belus,  and  king  of 
Tyre,  who  slew  his  brother-in-law, 
SichiTpus,  —  the  husband  of  Dido,  — 
for  his  riches. 

Pygmies.  [Lat.  Py^mcei,  Gr.  Uvy- 
fj.aloL.]  {Gr.  (^- Rom.  ^fyth.)  A  na- 
tion of  dwarfs,  only  a  span  high, 
who  dwelt  on  the  baiiks  of  the  upper 
Nile.  They  were  warred  on  and  de- 
feated every  spring  by  the  cranes. 

Pyl'a-des.      [Gr.   nuAaSr,?.]      {Gr.  <f 


Rom.  Myth.)  A  friend  of  Orestes, 
celebrated  for  the  constancy  of  his 
allection.     See  Okkstes. 

You  seem  to  have  conceived,  my  lord,  that 
you  and  I  were  Pylucks  and  Ort-stes,— a 
second  edition  of  Damon  and  Pythias, — 
Theseus  and  Piritlious,  at  the  least.  You  are 
mistaken.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

P^rr'a-mus.  [Gr.  nvpaiao?.]  {Gr.  (f 
R(wi.  Myth.)  The  lover  of  Thisbe, 
who,  on  account  of  her  supposed 
death,  stabbed  himself  under  a  mul- 
berry-tree. Thisbe,  afterward,  lind- 
ing  the  body  of  her  lover,  killed  her- 
self on  the  same  spot  with  the  same 
weapon;  and  the  fruit  of  the  mul- 
berry' has  ever  since  been  as  red  as 
blood.    See  Thisbe. 

I*SB^  In  Shakespeare's  "Midsummer- 
Night's  Dream,''  he  is  introduced  as  one 
of  the  characters  in  a  burlesque  iuter- 
lude. 

Pyr'go-poPi-ni'ces  (4).  [Lat.,  tower- 
town-takor,  from  Gr.  tt^pyo?,  tower, 
TToAts,  city,  town,  and  vlkclp,  to  ctn- 
quer,  vanquish,  ra*:r;T^?,  a  victor.] 
The  name  of  the  hero  — an  extrava- 
gant blusterer — in  ITautus's  "Miles 
Gloriosus." 

If  he  [the  modem  reader]  knows  nothingof 

Pyrgupolinlces  and  Thraso,he  is  familiar  with 
Dobadil  and  Bessus,  and  Pistol  and  Parolles. 
If  he  is  shut  out  from  Jsephelococcygia,  he 
may  take  refuge  in  Lilliput.  Jl'acaiday. 

Pyr'rha  (pir/ra).  [Gr.  nv/5pa.]  ( Gr. 
(f  Rom.  Myth.)  A  daughter  of  Epi- 
metheus,  and  wife  of  her  cousin  Deu- 
calion.    See  Deucalion. 

PyT'rlius(pIr'rus).  [Gr.  nv/ipo?.]  {Gr. 
if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Achilles 
and  Deldamia,  remarkable  for  his 
cruelty  at  the  siege  of  Troy.  He 
was  slain  at  Delphi,  at  the  request  of 
his  own  wife,  by  Orestes.  [Called 
also  Neopto/emus.] 

Pytli'i-as.  A  friend  of  Damon.  See 
Damon,  1. 

Py'tliSn.  [Gr.  UvB^v.]  (  Gr.  4-  Rom. 
Myth).  A  huge  serpent  engendered 
from  the  mud  of  the  deluge  of  Deu- 
calion, and  slain  near  Delphi  by 
Apollo,  who,  in  memory  thereof,  in- 
stituted the  Pythian  games. 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


QUA 


309 


QUE 


Q. 


Quadrangle,  or  Quadrilateral, 
The.  A  name  ^iveu  to  lour  stront; 
Austrian  I'ortrosses  in  nortiiern  Italy, 
-which  mutually  supjwrt  each  other, 
and  t'orni  a  barrier  that  divides  the 
north  plain  of  the  Po  into  two  sec- 
tions. These  fortresses  are,  1.  Pes- 
chiera,  ou  an  island  in  the  Mincio, 
near  the  lake  of  Garda;  2.  Man- 
tua, on  the  Mincio;  3.  Verona;  and 
4.  Legnago ;  —  the  last  two  ou  the 
Adige. 

Quadruple  Alliance.  (Hist.)  An  al- 
liance between  (jreat  Bi'itain,  France, 
the  emperor  of  Germany  (Charles 
VI.),  and  the  United  Provinces  of 
Holland,  for  the  purpose  of  guaran- 
teeing the  succession  of  the  reigning 
families  in  Great  Britain  and  France, 
and  settling  the  partition  of  the  8]jan- 
ish  monai'chy.  It  was  originated  by 
Great  Britain  and  France,  and  was 
signed  at  Paris,  July  7,  1718.  The 
emperor  acceded  to  it  on  the  22d  of 
the  same  month,  and  the  United 
Provinces  on  the  8th  of  February, 
1719. 

Quaker  City.  A  popular  name  of 
Philadelphia,  which  was  planned  and 
settled  b}'  William  Penn,  accompa- 
nied by  a  colony  of  English  Friends. 

Quaker  Poet.  1.  A  common  des- 
ignation of  Bernard  Barton  (1784- 
184'J),  an  English  poet  of  some  note, 
and  a  member  of  the  society  of 
Friends. 

2.  A  name  often  given  to  John 
Greenleaf  Whittier  (b.  1807),  a  mem- 
ber of  the  society  of  Friends,  and 
an  eminent  and  peculiarly  national 
American  poet. 

Qu3rll,  Philip.  The  hero  of  a  work 
entitled  '"  The  Hermit,  or  The  Suf- 
ferings and  Adventures  of  Philip 
Quarll.  an  Englishman."  The  story 
is  an  imitation  of"  Kobinson  Crusoe," 
with  the  substitution  of  an  affection- 
ate ape  or  chimpanzee  for  Man  Fri- 
day.    The  book  was  first  published 


in  1727,  and  has  been  frequently  re- 
printed. 

Quash'ee  (kwosh'ee).  A  cant  name 
given  to  any  negro,  or  to  the  negro 
race ;  —  said  to  be  derived  from  (^uas- 
si,  or  Quasha,  a  black  man  of  Suri- 
nam, by  whom  the  medicinal  virtues 
of  one  species  of  the  (juas^ia  plant 
were  made  known  to  the  SAvedish  nat- 
uralist liolander,  about  the  middle  of 
the  last  century. 

Quasimodo  (ku-S'ze'mo'do',  34). 
[Fr.]  A  foundling  adopted  by  Frol- 
lo,  in  Victor  Hugo's  '"  Notre-Dame 
de  Paris;  "  a  man  of  great  strength, 
but  a  complete  monster  of  deformity, 
without  one  redeeming  grace.  The 
name  is  used  popularly  and  generi- 
cally  to  designate  any  hideously  de- 
formed man. 

Quatre-Pilz-Aymon,  Les  (la  ka'tr- 

ii'A-a'mo^').     See  Ayjnkjn. 

Queen  City.  A  popular  name  of  Cin- 
cinnati ;  —  given  to  it  Avhen  it  Avas 
the  undisputed  connnercial  metropo- 
lis of  the  W^est.  See  Queen  of  the 
West. 

Queen  City  of  the  Lakes.  A  name 
sometimes  given  to  the  city  of  Buf- 
falo, New  York,  from  its  position  and 
importance. 

Queen  LSbe.  A  magic  queen,  rul- 
ing over  the  City  of  Enchantments, 
in  the  story  of  "Beder,  Prince  of 
Persia,"  in  the  "Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments."  By  her  diabolic 
art,  she  transforms  men  into  horses, 
mules,  and  other  animals.  Beder 
marries  her,  defeats  her  ])lots  against 
him,  turns  her  into  a  mare,  and  takes 
her  to  a  distance;  there  she  is  re- 
stored to  her  OAvn  shape,  and,  by  the 
assistance  of  her  mother,  turns  the 
tables  upon  the  young  prince,  and 
changes  him  into  an  oavI  ;  but,  alter 
some  adventures,  he  escapes  tlieir 
vengeance. 

i8@=-    "  Queen   Labe,   Avith    her    lovers 
turned    into   various    animals,    renainds 


oud  for  the  Remarks  and  Bules  to  which  the  numberii  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xjcxii. 


QUE 


310 


QUI 


one  strongly  of  the  Homeric  Circe  ;  and 
I  tliiuk  it  not  at  all  impossible  that  Gre- 
cian fable  may  have  penetrated  into  Per- 
sia." KtigkUey. 
Queen  of  Cities.  One  of  the  names 
popuhirly  given  to  liunie.     iSee  6iiV- 

EN-lllLLEl)    UlTV. 

Queen  of  Hearts.  Elizabeth,  the 
(laugliter  of  Jauies  I.,  and  the  unfor- 
tunate queen  of  Bolieniia.  So  en- 
gai^ing  was  her  behavior,  that  in 
tlie  Low  Countries  she  was  called  the 
Queen  of  liearts.  When  her  fortunes 
■\Tere  at  the  lowest  ebb,  she  never  de- 
parted from  her  dignity ;  and  pov- 
erty and  distress  seemed  to  have  no 
otlier  effect  upon  her  tlian  to  render 
her  more  an  object  of  admiration 
than  before. 

Queen  of  Queens.  A  title  given  by 
Antony  to  Cleopatra  (b.  c.  69—30), 
the  last  sovereign  of  the  dynasty  of 
the  i^tolemies  in  Egypt. 

Queen  of  Tears.  A  name  given  to 
Mary  of  Modena,  the  second  wife  of 
James  II.  of  England.  '  Her  eyes," 
says  Noble,  "became  etern  d  foun- 
tains of  sorrow  for  that  crown  her 
own  ill  policy  contributed  to  lose." 

Queen  of  the  Antilles  (an-teelz')- 
An  appellation  sometimes  given  to 
Cuba,  which,  from  its  great  size,  its 
rich  natural  productions,  its  fine  har- 
bors, its  varied  and  beautiful  scen- 
ery, and  its  commanding  geograph- 
ical position,  ranks  first  among  all 
the  islands  of  the  West  Indian  group. 

Queen  of  the  East.  1.  A  title  as- 
sumed by  Zenobia,  queen  of  Palmy- 
ra, on  the  death  of  her  husband  Ode- 
natus  (A.  D.  267). 

2.  A  name  given  to  Antioch,  the 
ancient  capital  of  Syria,  the  resi- 
dence of  the  Macedonian  kings  and 
the  Roman  governors,  and  long  cele- 
brated as  one  of  the  first  cities  of 
the  East. 

3.  In  modem  times,  a  name  some- 
times given  to  Batavia,  in  .Java,  cap- 
ital of  the  Dutch  possessions  in  the 
East. 

Queen  of  the  Eastern  Archipel- 
ago. A  popular  apittUation  of  .lava, 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  and  fertile 
islands  of  the  East  Indian  group,  and 


commercially  the  most  important  of 
them  all. 
Queen    of   the    North.      A    name 
sometimes   given  to  Edinburgh,  the 
capital  of  .Scotland. 

Queen  of  the  West.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Cincinnati.  See  Queen 

ClTV. 

And  tliis  Song  of  the  Vine, 

This  KieftinK  of  mine, 
The  winds  and  tlie  birds  shall  deliver 

To  tlie  (^ueeno/t/ie  IVest, 

In  her  jrarlands  dressed. 
On  the  banks  of  the  Beautiful  River. 

Longfelloxe. 

Queen   Scheherazade.    See   Sche- 

IIEHEZADE,  (^UEEX. 

Quern-biter  (kwern'blt'er,  4).  A  fa- 
mous sword  of  Ilako  I.  of  Norway, 

surnamed  "  The  Good." 

Quern-hiter  of  Hakon  the  Good, 
Wherewith  at  a  stroke  he  hewed 

The  millstone  through  and  through, 
And  Foot-breadth  of  Thoralf  the  Stroiig, 
Were  neither  so  broad  nor  so  lonjr, 

Xor  so  true.  Lonafdlow. 

Que-u'bus,  Equinoctial  of.  An 
expression  whicli  occurs  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Twelfth  Night  "  (a.  ii.,  so. 
3);  but  what  is  meant  by  it  is  not 
known.  Leigh  Hunt  says,  "  some 
glorious  torrid  zone  lying  beyond 
three  o'clock  in  the  morning."     See 

PiGKOGKOMITUS. 

Queux.     See  Kay,  Sir. 

Quickly,  Mrs.  1.  A  serA'ant  to  Dr. 
Caius,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor." 

The  controversy  has  been  maintained  with 
great  warmth;  we  leave  it  with  the  prudent 
resolution  of  Dame  Qnickhi,  "  We  will  not 
burn  our  fingers,  and  need  not,  indeed,  la!  " 

Edin.  Rev. 

2.  The  hostess  of  a  tavern  in  East- 
cheap,  in  the  First  and  Second  Parts 
of  Shakespeare's  "  King  Henry  the 
Fourth." 

Shakespeare  knew  innumerable  things; 
what  men  are,  and  what  the  world  is,  and 
what  men  aim  at  there,  from  the  Dame  Quicklu 
of  modern  Eastcheap  to  the  Csesar  of  aneient 
Rome.  Carhjle. 

Quilp.  A  hideous  dwarf,  full  of  feroc- 
ity and  cunning,  in  Dickens's  "Old 
Cm-iosity  Shop." 

Quince,  Peter,  A  carpenter,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Midsummer-Night's 
Dream." 

This  is  indeed  "  very  tmgieal  mirth,"  as 
Petvr  Quince's  play -bill  "has  it;  and  we  would 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations. 


QUI 


311 


QUO- 


not  advise  any  person  who  reads  for  amuse- 
meat  to  veiiUUL-  on  it  us  loii^  as  he  ctiu  pro- 
cure a  volume  oftlie  Statutes  at  l^aiye. 

Jiacaiilui/, 

Quintessence,  Queen  (kwiut'es- 
enss;  /V.  pron.  kii"^le.s'86"ss',  (J2). 
A  character  in  Rabelais'  roniaiice  ot' 
*•  Faatagruel ;  "  represented  as  ruling 
over  the  kingdom  ot  Entelechie.  8ee 

ENTtLKCHIL:. 

Quin'tus  Fix'lein.  The  title  of  a 
romance  by  Jean  Paul  Friedrich 
Richter,  and  the  name  of  its  prin- 
cipal character. 

Francia,  VikeQuintits  Fia-leiv,  had  "peren- 
nial fire-proof  joys,  namely,  employments." 

Carlyle. 

Qui-ri'nus,  [Lat.,  from  guiris,  or 
curi.^,  a  Sabine  word  signifying  a 
spenrman.]  (Rom.  Mijffi.)  A  name 
given,  after  his  deification,  to  Rom- 
ulus, the  reputed  founder  of  Rome. 
See  Romulus. 

Quisada  (ke-sS'thS,  56).   The  same  as 


Don  Quixote,  of  which  name  two 
tierivauons    are    given.       See    Don 

tjUl.VOTK. 

Nevertheless,  noble   K ,  come    in,  and 

take  your  seat  here,  between  Armado  and 
l^uisaUa ;  for,  in  true  courtesy,  in  jjruvity,  in 
fantastic  smiling  to  thyself,  in  courteous  smil- 
ing; upon  othe.s,  in  the  jtoodly  ornature  of 
•well-appareled  speech,  and  the  conunenda- 
tiou  of  wise  sentences,  thou  art  nothing  infe- 
rior to  those  accomplished  Dons  of  Spam. 

Charles  Lanib. 

Quixote,  Don.     See  Dox  Quixote. 

Quix'ote  of  the  Worth.  An  appella- 
tion sometimes  bestowed  upon  Charles 
XII.  of  Sweden  (1682-1718),  on  tic- 
count  of  the  rash  impetuosity  of  his 
character.  See  Madman  of  the 
NoHTH. 

Quo'tem,  Caleb.  A  parish  clerk,  and 
a  Jack-af-all-trades,  in  Colnian's  play 
entitled  "  The  Review,  or  The  Wag3 
of  Windsor." 

I  had  sworn  to  be  there,  and  I  determined 
to  keep  my  oath,  and,  like  Caleb  Qiiotem^  to 
"  have  a  place  at  the  review."  IV.  Irving. 


aad  for  the  Remarks  and  Kules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


RAB 


312 


KAL 


R. 


Rabelais,  The  English.  See  Eng- 
lish liAiiKLAlS. 

Rabelais,  The  Modern.  See  Mod- 
Kny  Kai'.klais). 

Rabicano  (ra-be-ka'no).  The  name 
of  Ari;alia's  steed  in  iJojardo's  "  (Jr- 
laiido  liaiaiiiurato." 

Ra'by,  Aurora.  A  character  in  the 
tit'teenth  and  sixteenth  cantos  of 
Byron's  "  Don  Juan." 

Rack'rent,  Sir  Con'dy.    A  character 

in  Miss  Kdgeworth's  novel,  "  Castle 
Rackrent. 

Like  Sir  Comhi  Rackrent  in  the  tale,  she 
[Madame  d'Aibluy]  survived  her  own  wake, 
and  overheard  the  judgment  of  posteritj'. 

Macaulaij. 

Ragnarok  (raic'na-riik,  46).  [Old 
Norse  R>t(/n(irdki\  twilight  of  the 
gods.]  (ScamL  Myth.)  The  "last 
day,"  the  period  of  the  destruction 
of  the  universe,  when  the  whole 
creation,  mankind,  giants,  and  gods, 
are  to  perish  in  a  shower  of  tire  anil 
blood.  Yidar  and  Vali  alone  Avill 
survive  the  general  conflagration, 
and  will  reconstruct  the  universe  on 
an  imperishable  basis.  [Written  also 
Kag  n  ar  uc  k.] 

Belleisle  —  little  as  Belleisle  dreamt  of  it,  in 
these  hijih  enterprises  —  was  usherinjj  in  a 
Ragnurok,  or  Twili<^lit  of  the  Gods,  wliich,  as 
"French  Revolution,  or  Apotheosis  of  Saiis- 
culottism,"  is  now  well  known.  Carlyle. 

Railroad  City.  Indianapolis,  the  cap- 
ital of  the  State  of  Indiana,  is  some- 
times called  by  this  name,  as  being 
the  teruiinus  of  various  railroads. 

RaU- Splitter,  The.  A  popular  desig- 
nation of  Abraham  Lincoln  (1809- 
1865),  the  sixteenth  president  of  the 
United  States,  who  is  said  to  have 
supported  himself  for  one  winter,  in 
early  life,  by  splitting  rails  for  a 
farmer. 

Railway  King,  The.  A  title  popu- 
larlv  given  iu  England  to  Mr.  George 
Hudson  (b.  181)0).  of  York,  one  of  the 
most  daring  and  celelirated  specula- 
tors of  modern  times.  He  is  said  to 
have  made,  in  one  instance,  .£100,000 
in  one  day.     Since  1859,  he  has  re- 


sided on  the  Continent,  in  compara. 
tively  nariow  circumstances. 

UuT  "  In  1839  he  betanie  cliairuian  of 
the  York  uud  North  Midland  Corpora, 
tiou,  aud,  by  his  iudelatigable  industry 
and  his  .^lirewdiic.-s  in  n.atters  of  husi- 
pess,  he  soou  gained  an  iii.portaut  and 
influential  position  as  a  railway -man. 
The  shares  iu  all  the  lines  of  wliich  he 
was  chairuian  went  to  a  preuiiuni  ;  larga 
dividends  were  declared ;  share-holdera 
and  directors  recognized  his  power.  — 
and  thus  he  sliortly  Ibund  himself  at  the 
head  of  six  hundred  Uiiles  of  railways, 
aud  of  numerous  new  projects  by  means 
of  which  paper  wealth  could  he  cieated, 
as  it  were,  at  pleasure.  He  held  in  his 
own  hands  almost  the  entire  administra- 
tive power  of  the  companies  over  wlii(  h 
he  presided  ;  he  was  chaiinian,  hoard, 
manager,  and  all.  He  was^oted  praises, 
testimonials,  and  surplus  shares  alike 
liberally  ;  and  scarcely  a  word  against 
him  could  find  a  hearii  g.  He  was  equal- 
ly  popular  outside  the  circle  of  railway 
proprietors.  His  entertainnients  wire 
crowded  ;  and  he  went  his  round  of  visits 
among  the  peerage  like  am  prince.  Of 
course,  Mr.  Hud.son  was  a  great  authority 
on  railway  questions  in  parliament,  to 
which  the  burgesses  of  Sunderland  had 
sent  him.  In  the  session  of  1845,  when 
he  was  at  the  height  of  his  power,  it  was 
triumphantly  said  of  him.  that  '  he 
walked  quietly  through  parliament  with 
some  sixteen  railway  bills  under  his  aim.' 
But  his  reign  was  drawing  rapidly  to  a 
close.  The  railway  mania  of  1845  was 
followed  by  a  sudden  reaction.  Shares 
went  down  faster  than  they  had  got  e  up  ; 
the  holders  of  them  hastened  to  sell, 
in  order  to  avoid  payment  of  the  calls; 
and  the  fortunes  of  many  were  utterly 
wrecked.  The  stockholders  were  Jill 
grievously  enraged,  and  looked  about 
them  for  a  victim.  At  a  railway  meeting 
in  York,  some  pertinent  questions  were 
put  to  the  Itailway  King.  His  replies 
were  not  satisfactory,  and  the  questions 
were  pushed  home.  Mr.  Hiidson  Viecanie 
confused.  A  committee  of  investigation 
was  appointed,  and  the  gilded  idol  of  the 
railway  world  was  straightwaj- dethroned. 
A  howl  of  execration  arose  from  his  de- 
luded followers ;  and  those  who  had 
bowed  the  lowest  before  him  during  his 
brief  reign,  hissed  the  loudest  when  he 
fell.''  Smiles. 

Ralph.     1.  An  Independent  clerk,  the 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanations, 


RAM 


313 


RAW 


attendant  of  Hudibras,  in  Butler's 
celebrated  burlesque  poem.  See 
HuDiiuiAS.    [Called  also  JidljjJio.] 

Yet  he  [Johnson]  was  liiniselt'  nniler  the 
tyranny  of  scruples  as  unreasonable  as  those 
of  .  .  .  Ralji/io.  Macaulwj. 

2.  The  name  of  a  sjjirit  formerly 
supposeel  to  haunt  printing-houses. 

Raminagrobis  (ra'me^na'gro'be'). 
The  name  of  one  of  the  characters 
in  Rabelais'  romance  of  "■  Pantag- 
ruel;"  described  as  an  old  French 
poet  who  was  almost  at  death's-door. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  intended  for 
Cretin,  an  author  of  high  repute  in 
his  own  day,  though  utterly  neglect- 
ed by  posterity. 

Ramsbottom,  Mrs.  The  imaginary 
author  of  a  celebrated  series  of  letters 
which  appeared  in  the  '"  John  Bull," 
a  Loudon  newspaper,  commenced  in 
182 J.  These  letters  were  written  by 
the  editor,  Theodore  Hook,  who,  tbl- 
lowing  the  example  of  Smollett's 
Winifred  Jenkins,  managed  by  bad 
spelling  to  excite  the  merriment  usu- 
ally elicited  by  humorous  writing. 

Random,  Rod'er-ick.  The  title  of  a 
novel  by  Smollett,  and  the  name  of 
its  hero,  a  young  Scotsman  in  quest 
of  fortune,  who  at  one  time  revels  in 
prosperity,  and  at  another  is  plunged 
into  utter  destitution.  Although  he 
is  represented  as  having  a  dash  of 
generosity  and  good  -  humor  in  his 
character,  he  is  equally  conspicuous 
for  reckless  libertinism  and  mischief, 
—  more  prone  to  selfishness  and  re- 
venge than  disposed  to  friendship  or 
gratitude.  He  borrows  the  money, 
and  wears  the  clothes,  of  his  simple 
and  kind-hearted  adherent,  Strap,  by 
whoui  he  is  I'escued  from  starving, 
and  whom  he  i*ewards  by  squander- 
ing his  substance,  receiving  his  at- 
tendance as  a  servant,  and  beating 
him  v>'hen  the  dice  run  against  him. 

ilanger.     1.  A  young   gentleman  of 

the  town,  in  Wycherley's  comedy  of 

"  Love  in  a  Wood." 

2.  The  leading  character  in  Hoad- 

ley's    comedy   of  "  The    Suspicious 

Husband." 
Ra'pM-el     {colloq.    ra'fel).       [Heb., 

remedy  or  physic  of  God,  in  allusion 


to  the  cures  he  performed  on  Sara 
and  Tol)it.J  The  name  of  an  angel 
mentioned  in  the  Apocryphal  book 
of  Tobh  as  traveling  with  Tobias 
into  Me^lia  and  back  again,  and  in- 
structing him  how  to  marry  Sara, 
and  how  to  drive  away  the  Avicked 
spirit.  Milton  calls  him  "  the  socia- 
ble spirit,"  and  "•  the  affable  archan- 
gel," and  represents  him  as  sent  by 
God  to  Adam  "  to  admonish  him  of 
his  obedience,  of  his  free  estate,  of 
his  enemy  near  at  hand,  who  he  is, 
and  why  his  enemy,  and  whatever 
else  may  avail  Adam  to  know."    See 

AsMODEUS. 

Raph'i-el  of  Cats.  A  name  be- 
stoAved  upon  Godefroi  Mind  (1708- 
1814),  a  Swiss  painter,  famous  for  his 
skill  in  painting  cats. 

Rare  Ben  Jonson.  A  famous  ap- 
pellation conferred  upon  l>en  .louson 
(15T1-1G37),  the  dramatic  poet.  It 
is  said,  that,  socm  after  his  death,  a 
subsci'iption  was  commenced  for  the 
purpose  of  erecting  a  monument  to 
his  memory;  but,  the  undertaking 
having  advanced  slowly,  an  eccentric 
Oxfordshire  squire  took  the  ti[)por- 
tunity,  on  passing  one  day  through 
Westminster  Abbey,  to  secure  at 
least  an  epitaph  for  the  poet,  by 
giving  a  mason  18.'Z.  to  cut,  on  the 
stone  which  covered  the  grave,  the 
words,  "0  rare  Ben  Jonson." 

Rash'leigh.  (rash^Ii).  A  hypocritical 
and  accomplished  villain  in  Sir  Wal- 
ter Scott's  novel  of"  Rob  Roy;  "  one 
of  the  Osbaldistone  family. 

Ra'si-el.  The  name  of  an  angel  spok- 
en of  in  the  Talmud  as  the  tutor  of 
Adam. 

Ras'se-las.  The  title  of  a  celebrated 
romance  by  Dr.  Johnson,  and  the 
name  of  its  hero,  an  imaginary  prince 
of  Abyssinia. 

Rattlin,  Jack.  A  celebrated  naval 
character  in  Smollett's  "  Adventures 
of  Roderick  Random." 

RaVens-wcJbd.  The  hero  of  Sir 
AValter  Scott's  novel  of  "  The  Bride 
of  Lammermoor ;  "  a  Scottish  royalist, 
intrepid,  haughty,  and  revengeful. 

Rawhead.  In  the  popular  superstition 
of  former  days,  the  name  of  a  specter 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


REA. 


314 


KED 


or  bugbear.  [Called  also  Raivhead- 
and-bUx  idy-bones.] 

Servants  awe  cliililron,  and  keep  thoin  in 
subjection,  by  telling  them  of  RawheaU-awl- 
hloody-tAtnes.  Locke. 

In  short,  lie  became  the  bu^'bcar  of  every 
house;  and  was  us  efteetual  in  f  ii'litcnin;;  lit- 
tle children  into  obedience  and  liystiTies  as 
the  redoubtable  Rawliead-aud-UiJohi-Lones 
himself.  W.Irvintj. 

Eeason,  Goddess  of.  A  personill- 
tatiou  of  those  intellectual  powers 
■which  distinj^uish  man  from  the  rc-t 
of  the  animal  creation ;  deilied  in  170.'3 
by  the  revolutionists  of  France,  and 
substituted  as  an  object  of  worship 
for  the  divine  bein<;s  of  the  Chris- 
tian faith.  It  was  decreed  that  the 
metropolitan  church  of  Notre -Dame 
should  be  converted  into  a  Temple 
of  Reason;  and  a  festival  was  insti- 
tuted for  the  tirst  day  of  each  decade, 
to  supersede  the  Catholic  ceremonies 
of  Sunday.  The  lirst  festival  of  this 
sort  Avas  held  with  great  pomp  on  the 
10th  of  November.  A  young  woman, 
the  wife  of  Momoro,  Ji  well-known 
printer,  represented  the  Goddess  of 
Keason.  She  was  dressed  in  white 
drapery ;  an  azure  mantle  himg  from 
her  shoulders;  and  her  flowing  hair 
was  surmounted  with  the  cap  of 
libert}'.  She  sat  upon  an  antique 
seat,  entwined  with  ivy,  and  borne 
by  four  citizens.  Young  girls  dressed 
in  Avhite,  and  crowned  Avith  roses, 
preceded  and  followed  her.  The 
services  of  the  occasion  consisted  of 
speeches,  processions,  and  patriotic 
hymns. 

Rebecca.  A  name  assumed  by  the 
leader  of  the  Rebeccaites,  a  band  of 
Welsh  rioters,  Avho,  in  1843,  exas- 
perated by  the  heavy  and  vexatious 
tolls  to  which  they  were  subjected, 
undertook  to  demolish  the  gates  and 
toll-houses  upon  the  turnpikes  in  the 
rural  districts  of  Pembrokeshire  and 
Caermarthenshire,  and  who  after- 
ward eonnnitted  various  excesses 
throughout  the  mining  and  manufac- 
turing districts  of  the  principality. 
The  crusade  had  begun  as  early  as 
1839,  but  did  not  assume  the  shape 
of  a  system  and  organization  until 
1843.  The  name  was  derived  from 
a  strange  and  preposterous  appli- 
cation of   the   following   passage  in 


Genesis  (xxiv.  60):  —  "And  ther 
blessed  Rebekah,  and  said  unto  lier, 
.  .  .  let  thy  seed  possess  the  gate  of 
those  which  hale  them."  The  ca|> 
tain  of  the  rioters  disguised  himself 
in  female  apparel,  as  did  his  body- 
guard, who  were  called  his  daughters. 
Their  marches  and  attacks  were  al- 
ways made  by  night.  I'he  insurrec- 
tion was  ultimately  suppressed  by  the 
police  and  the  military. 

Rebecca  the  Jewess.  A  meek  but 
high-soukd  Hebrew  maiden  in  Sir 
AValter  Scott's  novel  of  "  Ivanhoe," 
and  the  actual  heroine  of  the  story. 
See  RowKNA. 

Reconciliation  JsTormande,  La  (la 
ra'ko'i'se^le^'se^n'  nor'mond',  G2). 
[Fr.,  the  Norman,  or  feigned,  recon- 
ciliation.] {Fr.  Hist.)  A  name  given 
to  a  sudden  and  brief  restoration  of 
harmony  which  was  etfected  in  the 
distracted  Legislative  Assemblv,  on 
the  7th  of  July,  1702,  by  the  Abbe- 
Lamourette,  a  native  of  Normandy. 
[Called  also  Le  Baistr  de  Lnmou- 
retfe.]     See  L amourette's  Kiss. 

Red-coats.  The  name  given  by  the 
Americans,  in  the  Revolutionary 
War,  to  the  British  soldiery,  in  al- 
lusion to  their  scarlet  uniform. 

Red-cross  Knight.  A  prominent  char- 
acter in  Spenser's  *' Faery  Queen." 
To  him  was  assigned  the  adventure 
of  slaying  a  dragon,  by  which  the 
kingdom  of  Una's  father  was  laid 
■waste,  and  his  person  endangered. 
Una  herself  had  gone  to  the  court  of 
the  tairy  queen  to  solicit  a  champion, 
and,  at  the  commencement  of  the 
poem,  is  represented  as  accomjjany- 
nig  the  knight  upon  his  expedition. 
After  various  vicissitudes  of  fortune, 
the  dragon  is  at  last  met  and  com- 
pletely  destroyed;  when  the  knight 
marries  Una,  and  departs  to  engage 
in  other  adventures  assigned  him  by 
the  fairy  queen. 

I^^  The  Rod  -  cross  Knight  is  ?t. 
Georjre,  the  patron  saint  of  England,  and. 
in  the  ohvioiii?and  general  interpretation, 
typifies  Holiness,  or  the  perfection  of  the 
spiritual  man  in  reliorion  :  but,  i'l  a  polit- 
ical a"d  particular  sen.se.  his  adventure! 
are  intended  to  .shadow  forth  the  histcrj 
of  the  Church  of  England. 


03"  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanntioua. 


RED 


315 


REN^ 


Like  the  Red-cross  Knight,  they  urge  their 
way. 
To  lead  lu  memorable  triumph  home 
Truth,  —  tliL'ir  iiiiiiiortul  Una.       \\  urdsicorth. 

Redeemed  Captive.  An  appellation 
given  to  the  iiov.  John  Williams 
(lC4-i-172J),  a  New  Enyland  clergy- 
man Avlio  was  made  prisoner  by  the 
French  and  Indians  in  1704,  and  oi)- 
tained  his  freedom  in  ITOt!.  He  pub- 
lished a  narrative  of  his  experiences 
under  the  title  of  "  The  Redeemed 
Captive." 

Eed'gaunt'let,  Sir  Edward  Hugh. 
One  of  the  principal  characters  in 
Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of  the  same 
name;  a  political  enthusiast  and  Jac- 
obite, who  scruples  at  no  means  of 
upholding  the  cause  of  the  Pretender, 
and  tiiially  accompanies  him  into  ex- 
ile. He  is  represented  as  possessing 
the  power  of  contorting  his  brow  into 
a  territic  frown,  which  made  distinct- 
ly visible  the  figure  of  a  horseshoe, 
the  fatal  mark  of  his  race. 

Red  Man.  [Fr.  Homme  Rou(je.'\  1. 
In  the  popular  superstition  of  France, 
and  especially  of  Urittany,  a  demon 
of  tempests,  who  commands  the  ele- 
ments, and  precipitates  into  the  waves 
the  voyager  who  seeks  to  molest  the 
solitude  which  he  loves.  It  is  said 
to  be  a  popular  belief  in  France,  that 
a  mysterious  little  Red  Man  appeared 
to  Napoleon,  and  foretold  his  reverses. 
2.  A  name  given,  on  account  of 
his  copper-colored  skin,  to  the  Ameri- 
can Indian. 

Red  Republicans.  See  Republi- 
cans, Red. 

Red  Riding-hood.  See  Little  Red 
Riding-hood. 

Red  Rose.  A  popular  designation  of 
the  house  of  Lancaster,  from  its  em- 
blem, a  red  rose. 

Reekie,  Auld.     See  Auld  Reekie. 

Re'gan.  An  unnatural  daughter  of 
Lear,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of 
that  name.      See  Leak. 

"Father!  madam,"  said  the  stranger;  "they 
think  no  more  of  their  father  than  Begmi  or 
Goneril."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Regno  (ran'yo,  78).  [It.  kingdom.]  A 

name  gi\'en  to   Naples  by   way   of 

distinction  among  the  Italian  States. 

Are  our  wiser  heads  leaning  towards  alliance 


with  the  Pope  and  the  Rrgno,  or  are  they  In- 
clining; their  ears  to  the  orators  of  France  and 
Milan  .■'  Mrs.  Lewcs  ("  (A-onjc  Lliot "). 

Reign  of  Terror.  (F)-.  JJi^t.)  A  term 
ajjplied  to  a  period  of  anarchy,  blood- 
shed, and  conliscation,  in  the  time  of 
the  lirst  Revolution,  during  which  the 
country  was  under  the  sway  of  the 
actual  terror  inspired  by  the  fero- 
cious measures  of  its  governors,  on 
which  they  depended  for  the  sup- 
port of  their  authority.  It  began  af- 
ter the  fall  of  the  Girondists,  May  yi, 
1793,  and  extended  to  the  overthrow 
of  Robespierre  and  his  accomplices. 
July  27, 171)4.  Thousands  ot  persons 
were  put  to  death  during  this  short 
time. 

Re'mus.  In  Roman  legendary  histo- 
ry, the  twin  brother  of  Romulus,  by 
whom  he  was  killed  for  leaping  in 
scorn  over  the  Avails  of  Rome,  when 
they  were  building. 

Ren'ard.  A  name  given  to  a  fox  in 
fables  or  familiar  tales  and  in  poetry. 
It  is  derived  from  the  celebrated 
German  beast-epic  ('' Thier-epos  ") 
entitled  "  Reinecke  Fuchs,"  or  "  Rein- 
hard  Fuchs,"  which  is  a  satire  on 
the  state  of  society  in  Germany  dur- 
ing the  Middle  Ages  and  the  Vendal 
re/jime.,  originated  at  an  unknown 
period  among  the  Frankish  tribo>^, 
and  tirst  made  known  through  the 
medium  of  a  Low  German  version  in 
the  lifteenth  century.  Written  aUo 
R  e  y  n  a  r  d.] 

4®=  This  remarkable  poem  contains  a 
humorous  acoount  of  the  adventures  of 
llcnard  the  Fox  at  the  court  of  King 
Nodel  (the  lion);  and  it  exhibits  the 
cunning  of  the  former,  the  means  which 
he  adopted  to  rebut  the  charges  made 
against  him,  and  the  hypocrisy  and  lies 
by  which  he  contrived  to  gain  the  favor 
of  his  sovereign,  who  loaded  him  with 
honors.  The  plot  turns  chiefly  on  the 
long  struggle  between  Itenard  and  his 
uncle  Isengrin,  the  wolf,  who  typifies  the 
feudal  baron,  as  Itenard  does  the  Churcii. 
Renard  is  swayed  by  a  constant  impulse 
to  deceive  and  victimize  every  body, 
whether  friend  or  foe,  but  especially  Isen- 
grin ;  and,  though  the  latter  frequently 
reduces  him  to  the  greatest  straits,  he 
generally  gets  the  better  of  it  in  the  end. 
Renault  (re-no').  An  aged,  sangui- 
nary, and  lustful  conspirator  in  Ot- 
wav's  "Venice  Preserved." 


and  for  the  Remarks  ana  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxil. 


REN 


31G 


RIG 


Each  man  indulges  in  his  peciiliar  prnpen- 
flitics.  "  Slied  blood  enough,"  cries  old  Re- 
nault. •'  lie  just,  be  huniuue,  be  merciful," 
Bays  Buslie.  Shed. 

Ren6  (ru-na',  31).  The  title  of  a  ro- 
mance by  Francois  Rene,  Viscount 
de  CluUeaubrianil  (17(J8-1848),  and 
the  name  ol'  its  liero,  a  man  in  wiioin 
social  inaction,  blended  with  a  proud 
scorn  resnltin;jj  from  a  consciousness 
of  superior  genius,  has  produced  a 
peculiar  and  morbid  bitterness  of 
spirit. 

Ben'tow-el,  Mr.  Jabesh.  A  "  pre- 
cious" covenanting  preacher  men- 
tioned in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of 
"  Waverley."  See  Gowkthkapple, 
Maisteu. 

Republic,  Heir  of  the.  See  Heir 
OF  THE  Repuhlic. 

Republican  Queen.  An  appellation 
given  to  Sophie  Charlotte,  Avife  of 
Frederick  I.,  king  of  I'russia,  "a 
famed  queen  and  lady  in  her  day." 

Republicans,  Black.  A  nickname 
given  by  the  jn'o-slavery  or  "  conserv- 
ative "  party  in  the  United  States  to 
the  members  of  the  ''Republican" 
party,  which  Avas  organized  to  pre- 
vent the  introduction  of  slavery  into 
the  national  Territories,  and  to  con- 
line  it  to  the  States,  where  it  had  an 
acknowledged  legal  existence. 

Republicans,  Red.  A  sobriquet 
given  by  the  French  to  those  who  are 
bent  upon  maintaining  extreme  re- 
publican doctrines,  even  at  tiie  ex- 
pense of  blood. 

Resolute,  The.  A  surname  assumed 
by  John  Florio  (d.  16'25),  the  philolo- 
gist and  lexicographer.  Shakespeare 
ridiculed  him  in  the  character  of 
Holofernes.  the  pedantic  schoolmaster 
in  "  Love's  Labor  's  Lost,"  and  in  the 
character  of  Don  Adriano  de  Armado, 
the  vaporing  and  ridiculous  Spaniard, 
in  the  same  play.     See  l/ifra,  1. 

Resolute  Doctor.  1.  An  appellation 
given  to  Durand,  or  Durandus,  a 
scholastic  philosopher  of  the  Middle 
Ages.  "  Resolute  "  is  here  used  in 
the  sense  of  resolving,  explaining,  or 
interpreting.     See  Most  Resolute 

DoCTOU. 

2.     A   title  bestowed  upon  John 


Baconthorp,    Bacondorp,    or    Bacon 

(d.  J.'J4(i),  a  distinguished  mediieval 
schoolman,  on  account  of  the  readi- 
ness and  skill  witli  which  he  decided 
controverted  questions. 
Restitution,  Edict  of.  See  Edict 
o;-'  Restitltkjn. 

Restorer  of  Parnassus.  [Sp.  Res- 
tdurtti/or  titl  J'drnitso.^  A  title  given 
bv  his  admiring  countr\'men  to  Don 
.Juan  Melendez  Valdes' ( 1754-1817), 
a  very  distinguished  Spanish  poet, 
who  has  had  great  influence  on  the 
literature  of  his  country. 

Review,  Breeches.  See  Biieeciies 
Review. 

Review,  My  Grandmother's.  Se» 
Gkaxd.aiotiiek's  Review,  My. 

Rey-nal'do.  A  servant  to  Polonius^ 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Hamlet." 

R5yn'ard.     See  Renakd. 

Rhad^a-man'thus  (rad'-).  [Gr.  'PaSd- 
/xai'So?.]  ( 6V.  if  Rom.  ^  flit  It.)  A 
son  of  Jupiter  and  Europa,  brother 
of  Minos,  and  king  of  Lycia.  He 
Avas  so  renowned  for  his  justice  and 
equity,  that,  after  death,  he  Avas  made 
one  of  the  three  judges  in  the  under- 
Avorld. 

Rhe'a  (re'S).  [Gr.  'Pei>,  "Pea.]  (6'?-. 
(/  Rom.  Jfjjth.)  Another  name  for 
Cybele.     See  Cybele. 

Rhe'sus  (re'-).  [Gr.  'Pfja-o?.]  (  Cjv.  if- 
Rom.  }fijth.)  A  Avarlike  king  of 
Thrace,  Avho  marched  to  the  assist- 
ance of  Priam  Avhen  the  Trojan  war 
broke  out,  but  Avas  robbed  of  his 
horses  and  killed,  on  the  night  of  his 
arrival,  by  Diomed  and  Ulysses,  Avho 
Avished  to  preA'ent  the  fultiilment  of  a 
prophecy  that  Troy  should  ncA'er  be 
taken,  if  the  horses  of  Rhesus  drank 
the  Avaters  of  Xanthus  and  grazed 
on  the  Trojan  plains. 

Rho'dy,  Little  (roMi).  A  popular 
designation  of  Rhode  Island,  the 
smallest  of  the  United  States. 

Ricciardetto(ret-chaf-det'to.  102).  A 
son  of  Aymon,  and  brother  of  Brada- 
mante,  in  Ariosto's  "  Orlando  Furi- 
oso." 

Rig'dum  Fun'n5-dos.     1.     A  char- 


For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying   Explanations 


RIG 


317 


ROB 


acter  in  Henry  Carey's  play  entitled 
"  Chroiionliotontholo^os." 

2.  A  nickimuie  given  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott  to  John  Ballantyne 
(1776-1821 ),  his  friend  and  partner 
in  the  piiblishinj^"  house  of  "John 
IJalhuityne  &  Company."  Lockhart 
says  of  him :  "  He  was  a  quick, 
active,  intrepid  little  fellow;  and  in 
society  so  very  lively  and  amusing, 
so  full  of  fun  and  merriment,  such  a 
thoroughly  light-hearted  droll,  all 
over  ([uaintness  and  humorous  mim- 
icry, and  moreover  such  a  keen  and 
skillful  devotee  to  all  manner  of  tield- 
sports,  from  fox-hunting  to  badger- 
baiting  inclusive,  that  it  was  no 
wonder  he  should  have  made  a  fa- 
vorable impression  on  Scott."      See 

AlDIB(JKUNTEPHOSCOPHOK>'IO. 

ttigolette  (re'go'Ief).  The  name  of 
a  female  cliaracter  in  Eugene  Sue's 
"  Mysteries  of  Paris."  It  has  ac- 
quired a  proverbial  currency,  and  is 
used  as  a  .synonym  of  grisette. 

Riin'raon.  (Myth.)  A  god  of  the 
Syrians,  generally  thought  to  have 
been  the  same  as  Baal.     See  Baal. 

Him  followed  Rimmon,  whose  delightful  seat 
Was  f.iir  Damascus,  ou  the  fertile  banks 
Of  Abbana  and  Pharphar,  lucid  streams. 

Milton. 

Einaldo  (re-naPdo).  [Fr.  Eenaud, 
Lat.  Jiinakhis,  Re(jinaldus.'\  1.  A 
famous  warrior,  violent,  headstrong, 
and  unscrupulous,  but  of  great  gal- 
lantry, ingenuity,  and  generosity,  in 
Tasso's  "  Gerusalemme  Liberata," 
Pulci's  "  Morgante  Maggiore,"  Bo- 
jardo's  "  Orlando  Innamorato,"  Ari- 
osto'.s  "  Orlando  Furioso,"  and  other 
romantic  tales  of  Italy  and  France. 
He  was  a  son  of  the  great  Duke 
Aymon,  and  cousin  to  Orlando,  and 
one  of  the  most  renowned  of  Charle- 
magne's paladins.  Having,  in  a  trans- 
port of  rage,  killed  Charlemagne's 
nephew  Berthelot  by  a  blow  with  a 
chess-board,  he  was,  with  all  his 
family  except  his  father,  banislieil 
and  outlawed.  After  various  adven- 
tures and  disasters,  he  went  to  the 
Holv  Land,  and,  on  his  return,  suc- 
ceeded in  making  peace  with  the 
emperor.  Angelica,  the  lovely  infidel 
princess, fell  madly  in  love  with  him; 


but  he  could  not  endure  her,  and, 
while  kings  and  nations  were  warriiig 
only  for  her,  he  turned  a  deaf  ear  to 
her  prayers,  and  left  her  to  deplore 
her  unrequited  love.  See  Ai^gelica, 
AmnDA. 

■\Ve  stare  at  a  dragoon  who  has  killed  three 
Frencli  cuirassiers  as  a  jjrodigy;  vet  we  read, 
without  the  least  disgust,  how  (iodfiey  slew 
his  thousands,  and  Rinaldo  his  ten  thousands. 

Mucaulay. 

2.  Steward  to  the  Countess  of 
Rousillon,  in  Shakespeare's  '"  All  's 
Well  that  Ends  Well." 

Ringing  Island.  A  name  given  to 
England,  on  account  of  the  music  of 
its  many  bells. 

S£S=  "  From  very  early  age.*?,  England 
has  been  ftimous  for  its  bells ;  so  much 
so,  that  Britain  was  known  even  in  Saxon 
times  as  '  The  Hinging  Island.'  "    Lower. 

Rippach,  Hans  von.  See  Haxs  yon 
RippAcir. 

Rip  Van  Winkle.  See  Winkle, 
Rip  Van. 

Riquet  with  the  Tuft  (re'ka).  [Fr. 
R'tquct  a  la  Jloiippe.]  A  prince  of 
surpassing  ugliness,  but  of  great  wit 
and  good  sense,  upon  whom  a  fairy 
bestowed  the  power  of  communicat- 
ing these  gifts  to  the  person  he  should 
love  best.  Becoming  enamored  of  a 
very  l)eautiful  but  excessively  stupid 
princess  of  a  neighboring  country,  he 
makes  her,  by  the  exercise  of  his 
power,  altogether  clever  and  charm- 
ing; while  she,  in  return,  and  by  the 
exercise  of  a  like  power  bestowed 
upon  her  by  the  same  fairy,  makes 
him  become  the  handsomest  man  in 
the  world. 

Robber  Synod.  [Gr.  'S.vvoSo';  k-qarpi- 
KT).]  (K(rlesi((stical  nist.)  A  name 
given  by  the  Greeks  to  a  council 
convoked  at  Ephesus,  by  the  em- 
peror Theodosius,  in  the  year  449. 
The  name  was  intended  to  signify 
that  every  thing  was  carried  in  it  by 
fraud  and  violence:  but,  as  has  been 
justly  said,  it  would  be  equally  appli- 
cable to  many  councils  of  subsequent 
times. 

Robert  the  Devil.  [Fr.  Robert  le  Dia- 
6/e.]  1.  The  hero  of  an  old  French 
metrical  romance  of  the  thirteenth 
centurv,  the  same  as  Robert,  first  Duke 


6ud  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ROB 


318 


ROB 


of  Normandj',  who  became  an  early 
object  of  legendary  scandal.  Having 
been  given  over  to  the  Devil  belore 
birth,  he  ran  a  career  of  cruelties  and 
crimes  unparalleled,  till  he  ^vas  mi- 
raculously reclaimed,  whereupon  he 
did  penance  by  living  among  the 
dogs,  became  an  exemplary  Christian, 
and  married  the  emperor's  daugh- 
ter. It  is  thought  in  2sormandy 
that  his  wandering  ghost  is  doomed 
to  expiate  his  crimes  until  the  day 
of  judguient.  In  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury, the  romance  above  mentioned 
was  turned  into  ])rose,  and  of  the 
prose  story  two  translations  were 
made  into  English.  There  was  also 
a  miracle  play  on  the  same  subject. 
The  opera  of  "  Kobert  le  Diable  "  was 
composed  by  Meyerbeer,  iu  1820. 

2.  The  same  name  was  popularly 
given  to  IJobert  Francois  Damiens 
(1714-1757),  noted  ibr  his  attempt  to 
assassinate  Louis  XV. 

Robin     Bluestring.       A     nickname 

given  to  Sir  Robert  Walpole  (1G7G- 
1745),  by  contemporary  ))olitical  (  p- 
ponents,  in  allusion  to  his  blue  ribbc.ii 
as  a  knight  of  the  Garter. 

Robin  des  Bois  (ro'ban'  dS  l)wo,  G2). 
[Fr.]  In  Germany,  a  mysterioi;s 
hunter  of  the  forest.  (See  Fkei- 
SCHUTZ.)  Robin  des  Bois  occurs  in 
one  of  Eugene  Sue's  novels  "  as  a 
well-known  mythical  character  wdiose 
name  is  employed  by  French  mothers 
to  frighten  their  children." 

Robin  Goodfellow.     See  Goodfel- 

LOW,  RoBIX. 

Robin  Gray.  See  Gray,  Auld 
RoBix. 

Robin  Hood.  A  famous  English  out- 
law, whose  exjjloits  are  the  subject 
of  jnany  old  ballads  and  tradition- 
arv'  stories,  but  of  whose  actual  exist- 
ence little  or  no  evidence  can  be  dis- 
covered. Various  periods,  ranging 
from  the  time  of  Richard  I.  to  near 
the  end  of  the  reign  of  Edward  II., 
have  been  assigned  as  the  age  in 
which  he  lived.  He  is  usually  de- 
cribed  as  a  yeoman,  and  his  chief 
residence  is  said  to  have  been  the 
forest  of  Sherwood,  in  Xottingham- 
shire.     Of   his    followers,    the    most 


noted  are  Little  John  ;  his  chaplain, 
Friar  Tuck;  and  his  paramour,  named 
Marian.  All  the  j)0]tular  legends  ex- 
tol his  personal  courage,  his  gener- 
osity, his  humanity,  and  his  skill  in 
archery.  His  conduct  in  many  re- 
spects resembled  Ihat  of  a  leudal  lord. 
He  robbed  the  rich  only,  and  gave 
freely  to  the  poor,  protecting  the 
needy,  and  also  the  lair  .'■ex,  whose 
Avrongs  he  undertc)ok  to  avenge.  He 
was  particularly  Ibnd  of  pillaging 
prelates. 

JSOr"  The  principal  inridcnts  of  his  his- 
tory are  to  be  found  in  Stow,  and  in  Hit- 
son's  •'  Itobin  Hood,  a  Collection  of  all 
the  Ancient  Poems,  Songs,  and  IJ.Tllads 
now  extant,  relating  to  that  celebrated 
English  Outlaw,"  8vo,  London.  1795. 
Prefixed  to  this  collection  are  "  Historical 
Anecdotes  "  of  the  life  of  Hohin  Hood,  an 
accumulation  of  all  the  notices  respecting 
the  outlaw  that  the  compiler's  reading 
had  discovered  in  manuscripts  or  printed 
books.  Various  and  widely  different  hy- 
potheses hnve  been  advanced  concerning 
Robin  Hood,  and  his  clnim  to  be  consid- 
ered a  real  historical  personage.  These 
are  well  sfcited,  and  are  investigated  with 
entire  candor  and  much  acuteness  of 
criticism,  in  the  elaborate  Introduction 
to  the  fifth  volume  of  the  '•  English  and 
Scottish  Ballads."'  editeil  bv  Professor 
Francis  J.  Child  (Boston,  1857). 

But  chief,  beside  the  butts,  there  stand 
Bold  lUiliin  Hood  and  all  liis  band, — 
Friar  Tuck,  with  quarter-stuff  and  cowl, 
Old  Scathelookc,  with  liis  surly  scowl, 
Maid  Marian,  fair  as  ivory  boiie, 
Scarlet,  and  Mutch,  and" Little  John. 

&\r  W.  Scott. 

The  Duke  of  Marlborough,  the  Duke  of 
Cumberland,  the  Marquis  of  Granby,  have 
flourished  upon  sign-posts,  siiid  have  faded 
there:  so  have  their  eomi)eers,  Piince  Eugene 
and  Prince  Ferdinand.  Rodney  and  Nelson 
are  fadimr,  and  the  time  is  not  fir  distant 
when  AVelliuLTton  also  will  have  had  his  day. 
But  while  Fiigland  shall  be  England,  Rohtn 
llooil  will  be  a  popular  name.  Soutlwy. 

Rob'in-son,  Jack(-sn).  A  name  used 
in  the  phrase,  "  Before  one  could  say 
Jack  Robinson,"  —  a  saying  to  ex- 
press a  very  short  time ;  said  by  Grose 
to  have  originated  irom  a  very  vol- 
atile gentleman  of  that  apjiellation 
who  would  call  on  his  neigliliors  and 
be  gone  before  hi<  name  could  be  an- 
nounced. The  following  lines  '"from 
an  old  plc^y  "  are  elsewhere  given  as 
the  original  phrase:  — 

"A  wnrke  it  ys  as  easie  to  be  doone, 
As  tys  to  saye,  Jackc  !  robys  oti." 


For  the  "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with    the  accompanying  Explanations^ 


ROB 


319 


ROL 


The  expression  has  been  erroneously 
connected  with  one  John  Kobinson 
(17-27-1802),  of  Appleby,  Westmore- 
land, who,  in  a  sur|)nsin.i;h-  short 
time,  rose  from  ()b.seurity  to  wealth 
and  power,  becoming  an  influential 
member  of  parliament,  secretary  to 
the  treasury,  surveyor -general  of 
His  Majesty's  woods  and  forests,  &c. 

An  operation  in  comparison  to  the  celerity 
of  which  a  pig's  wliisper  is  an  aj;e,  and  the 
pronunciation  (if  the  mystic  words  '■'Jack 
Jiobiiison"  a  life-long  task.  Sala. 

Robinson,  Prosperity.     See  Pros- 

PEKITY  RoniNSON. 

Robinson  Crusoe.  See  Crusoe, 
KoniNsox. 

Robin  the  Devil.  [Fr.  Rvhert  le 
Dlnb/e.]  Robert,  the  tirst  Duke  of 
Normandy;  —  so  surnamed  "  for  his 
monstrous  birtli  and  behavior."  See 
lionEUT  THE  Devil. 

Rob  Roy.  [That  is,  Robert  the  Red.] 
A  nickname  popularly  given  to  a  cel- 
ebrated Higlihind  freebooter,  whose 
true  name  was  Robert  ]\laegregor, 
but  who  assumed  that  of  Campbell, 
on  account  of  the  outlawry  of  the 
clan  Macgregor  by  the  Scottish  par- 
liament, in  1602.  He  is  the  hero  of 
Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  entitled 
'^  Rob  Roy." 

A  famous  man  is  Robin  Hood, 
The  English  ballad-singer's  joy! 
And  Scotland  lias  a  thief  as  good, 
An  outlaw  of  as  daring  mood; 
She  has  her  brave  Jiob  Hoy  ! 

Wordsworth. 

Brilliant  and  handsome  though  Peschiera 

be.  Lord  L'Estrange,  like  Ro')  Ron  Macgregor, 

is  "  on  his  native  heath,"  and  has  the  decided 

advantage  over  the  foreigner. 

Sir  E.  Buliuer  Lytton. 

Rod'er-i'go.  A  Venetian  gentleman, 
in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  '•  Othel- 
lo;" represented  as  the  dupe  of  lago. 

Rod'o-mont,  or  Rodomonte  (rod-o- 
mon'ta).  [That  is,  one  who  rolls 
away  mountains,  from  Prov.  It.  roch- 
re,  to  roll  away  or  forward,  from  Lat. 
rota,  a  wheel,  and  It.  monie,  Lat. 
mons,  a  mountain.]  A  famous  Moor- 
ish hero  in  Bojardo's  "  Orlando  In- 
namorato  "  and  Ariosto's  "  Orlando 
Furioso;"  represented  as  a  king  of 
Algiers,  and  the  bravest,  fiercest, 
and  wildest  of  all  warriors.  His 
name  is  generally  used  to  stigmatize 


a  boaster,  and  from  it  we  derive  the 
woi'd  rodunwidadt. 

He  vapored;  but,  being  pretty  sharply  ad- 
monished, he  quickly  became  mild  and  calm, 

—  a  posture  ill  becoming  such  a  Hodonumt. 

air  T.  Herbert. 

Roe,  Richard.  A  merely  nominal 
defendant  in  actions  of  ejectment; 
usually  coupled  with  the  name  of 
Joliii  Due,     See  Doe,  John. 

We  need  hardly  say,  therefore,  that,  in  the 
present  instance,  M.  Perier  is  merely  a  Rich- 
ard /loe,  —  that  his  name  is  used  for  the  sole 
purpose  of  bringing  Macchiavelli  into  court, 

—  and  that  he  will  not  be  mentioned  in  any 
subsequent  stage  of  the  proceedings. 

JIacaulai/. 

Ro-ge'ro  (9).     1.  See  Ruggiero. 

2.  A  gentleman  of  Sicilia,  in  Shake- 
speare's ''  Winter's  Tale." 

Rois  Faineants,  Les.  See  Fai- 
neants, Les  Rois. 

Roister  Doister,  Ralph.  The  sub- 
ject and  the  title  of  the  earliest 
English  comedy,  the  production  of 
Nicholas  Udall,  in  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury. 

Ro'land.  One  of  the  Twelve  Peers 
of  Charlemagne,  and  his  supposed 
nephew,  warden  of  the  marches  of 
Brittany,  and  the  hero  of  many  a 
romantic  tale.  He  is  said  to  have 
been  killed  in  778,  at  Roncesvalles, 
or  Roncesveaux,  where  the  rear  of 
Charlemagne's  army  Avas  cut  off  by 
some  revolted  Gascons  on  its  return 
from  a  successful  expedition  into 
Spain,  —  a  circumstance  which  has 
been  magnitied  by  poets  and  roman- 
cers into  a  "  dolorous  rout  "  of  Charle- 
magne "  with  all  his  peerage."  See 
Orlando  and  Rowland.  [Written 
also   Rowland  and  Orlando] 

j8®=»  According  to  Pulci.  Charlemagne's 
warriors  were  decoyed  into  the  pass  of 
Roncesvalles,  where  they  were  set  upon 
by  three  armies  of  the  Saracens,  while 
Charlemagne  himself  remained  at  St. 
Jean  Pied  de  Port,  a  few  miles  distant, 
whither  he  had  come  to  receive  prom- 
i.«ed  tribute  from  Marsiglio.  or  Marsilius, 
the  Saracen  king.  The  French  knights 
performed  prodigies  of  valor,  but  the  bat- 
tle wentagiiinst  them.  Roland  was  acci- 
dentally, but  fatally,  wounded  by  his 
friend  Oliver,  who  had  himself  received  a 
death-blow,  and  w;is  blinded  with  his  own 
blood.  Roland  now  sounded  his  marvel- 
ous horn,   which   was   to    give   Charle- 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-i 


KOL 


320 


ROS 


magne  notice  of  his  peril,  and  with  such 
force,  tli.it,  at  tlie  third  blast,  it  broke  in 
two.  Over  all  tlie  noise  ot  the  battle,  the 
horn  was  heard  a.s  if  it  had  been  a  voice 
Iroin  the  other  world.  Hird.s  fell  dead  at 
the  sound,  and  the  wiiole  Saracen  army 
drew  back  m  terror,  while  Charlemagne 
heard  it  at  St.  Jeau  Pied  de  Port,  and 
understood  at  ouce  that  he  was  the  victim 
of  treachery.  It  is  also  recorded  that 
lloland,  wisliing  to  prevent  his  wonder- 
ful sword  Duraudal  (.<ee  DuR.iND.iL)  from 
falling  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy, 
smote  it  upon  a  rock  near  him.  making 
a  monstrous  tissure  therein  (the  cele- 
brated •'  Breche  de  lloland,"'  a  deep  de- 
file in  the  crest  of  the  Pyrenees  from  200 
to  300  feet  in  width,  lietweeu  precipitous 
rocks  rising  to  a  height  of  from  300  to 
600  feet),  while  the  sword  remained  un- 
injured.    See   Marsiglio. 

Oh  for  one  blast  of  that  dread  horn, 
On  Fontarabian  echoes  borne. 

Which  to  King  Charles  did  come, 
"When  Roland  brave,  and  Olivier, 
And  evcrv  paladin  and  peer, 

Ou  R(  ncesvallus  died!  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Then  would  I  seek  the  Pyrenean  breach 
Which  Roland  clove  with  huge  two-handed 

sway. 
And  to  the  enormous  labor  left  his  name, 
Where  unremitting  frosts  the  rocky  crescent 
bleach.  Wordsivorth. 

Ro1|nd  of  the  Army.  [Fr.  Roland 
(T Aniiee.^  A  sobriquet  of  Louis 
Vincent  Joseph  Le  Blond,  Comte  de 
Saint  Hilaire  (17GG-1809),  a  French 
general  distinguished  for  his  valiant 
and  chivalrous  conduct. 

Boman  A-chil'les.  A  surname  of 
Sicinius  Dentatus  (405  b.  c),  be- 
stowed upon  him  on  account  of  his 
braver}'. 

Ro'me-o.  In  Shakespeare's  tragedy 
of  '■  Romeo  and  Juliet,"  a  son  of 
Montague,  in  love  with  Juliet,  the 
daughter  of  Capulet.  Between  the 
two  houses  of  Montague  and  Capulet 
there  existed  a  deadly  feud, 

Rom'u-lus.  In  the  legendary  history 
of  Rome,  the  son  of  Mars  and  a  vestal 
named  Silvia.  He  was  thrown  into 
the  Tiber,  together  with  his  twin 
brother  Remus,  by  his  uncle,  but  was 
washed  ashore,  suckled  by  a  she- 
wolf,  found  and  adopted  by  a  shep- 
herd, and  finally  became  the  founder 
and  lirst  king  of  Rome.  After  a  reign 
of  thirty-seven  years,  he  was  sudden- 
ly carried  ofi'  to  heaven  bv  his  father 


Mars,  as  he  was  reviewing  the  peo> 
pie  near  the  marsh  of  L'apra,  and 
was  thenceforth  worshiped  under  the 
name  ot  Quirinus.  Another  form  of 
the  tradition  represents  Romulus  as 
a  tyrant,  and  relates  that  the  senators, 
discontented  with  his  oppressive  rule, 
nuirdered  him  during  the  darkness  of 
a  tempest,  cut  up  his  body,  and  car- 
ried home  the  mangled  pieces  under 
their  robes. 

Ron.  The  name  of  Arthur's  lance, 
which  was  "  hard,  broad,  and  fit  for 
slaughter."  See  Pkidwin.  [Writ- 
ten also   Ro  n  e.] 

Roncesvalles,  Battle  of  f  ron'.se-val'- 
less,  or  ron-thes-val'yes).  See  Ro- 
land, MAKblGLIO. 

Rondibilis  (ron-dib'i-lis;  Fr.  pron. 
roii'dc^be'le',  62).  A  physician  con- 
sulted by  Panurge,  in  Rabelais'  ro- 
mance of  "  Rantagruel."      See   Pa- 

NIIIGE. 

Ropemaker,  The  Beautiful.  [Fr. 
La  Belle  C'ordiere.]  A  sobriquet 
given  to  Loiuse  Lab^  (152G-15GG),  a 
French  poetess  who  wrote  in  three 
difli'erent  languages,  and  who  was 
distinguished  for  her  extraordinary 
courage  at  the  siege  of  Perpignan. 
She  married  Enneniond  Perrin,  a  rich 
merchant,  and  a  rope  manufacturer. 

Rop'er,  Mistress.  A  cant  name 
given  in  the  British  navy  to  the 
"  Royal  Marines." 

Roque  Guinart  (ro'kS  ge-naftO-  A 
famous  freebooter  introduced  by  Cer- 
vantes into  "  Don  Quixote."  His  true 
name  was  Pedro  Rocha  Guinarda,  and 
he  was  one  of  the  principal  leaders 
of  a  great  band  of  robbers  who  levied 
shameful  contrilnitions  all  over  the 
mountainous  districts  of  Catalonia, 
about  the  time  when  "  Don  Quixote  " 
was  written. 

Ros'a-lind.  1.  The  poetic  name  of 
a  youthful  mistress  of  Spenser.  She 
is  described  by  him  as  of  great  beauty, 
and  as  occupying  a  position  of  honor 
and  dignity,  though  her  parentagft 
Avas  humble.  In  the  ''  Shepherd's 
Calendar,"  he  bewails  her  ill  usage, 
and,  in  the  sixth  book  of  the  ''  Faery 
Queen,"  —  where  she  is  undoubtedly 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


ROS 


321 


ROU 


Intended  by  Mirabel,  —  be  retab'ates 
it.  Her  real  name  was  lung  unknown ; 
but  within  a  tew  years  it  has  been 
proved  that  she  was  Rose  Daniel, 
sister  of  ISaniiiel  Daniel,  the  poet,  and 
tliat  she  married  .lohn  t  lorio  (see  Don 
AuitlANO  1)E   AUMADO,   and    HoLO- 

FKRNEs,  3)  in  preference  to  Spenser. 
Jiosn/iiule  reads,  anagi'ammatically, 
Hose  Ddnu'i;  for,  according  to  Cam- 
den, "  a  letter  may  be  doubled,  re- 
jected, or  contrariwise,  if  the  sense 
fall  aptly;"  we  thus  get  ]*id  of  the 
redundant  e,  and  have  a  perfect  ana- 
gram. 

2.  A  daughter  of  the  exiled  duke, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  As  You  Like  It." 

I^c^  "  llosalind  .  .  .  has  vivat-ity  and 
wit  enough  to  captivate  those  who  like  a 
■woman  of  spirit ;  and  yet  with  this  there 
is  interwoven  so  much  womanly  tender- 
ness and  delicacy,  she  is,  in  her  gayest 
moods,  so  truly,  sometimes  so  touchingly, 
feminine,  that  she  wins  more  admirers 
tlian  she  dazzles."  A'.  G.  White. 

Kos'a-line,  or  Ros'a-line.  1.  A  lady 
attending  on  the  princess  of  France, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Love's  Labor  's 
Lost." 

2.  A  scornful  lady,  for  whom  Romeo 
entertained  a  dreamy  and  fanciful 
passion  before  he  fell  in  love  with 
Juliet,  who  was  in  every  respect  her 
opposite.     See  Romeo. 

Kosamond,  Fair.    See  Fair  Rosa- 

MOMD. 

Ro'sen-crantz  (ro/zn-kra,nts).  The 
name  of  a  courtier,  in  Shakespeare's 
tragedy  of  "  Hamlet." 

Ros'i-clear.  A  character  in  the 
"  Mirror  of  Knighthood."  See  Don- 
zee   DEE  PhEBO. 

Eos'i-phele.  Princess  of  Armenia,  a 
lady  of^surpassing  beauty,  but  insen- 
sible to  the  power  of  love,  represented 
by  Gower,  in  his  "  Confessio  Aman- 
tis,"  as  reduced  to  obedience  to  Cupid 
by  a  vision  which  befell  her  on  a 
]\iay-day  ramble. 

Ross,  Man  of.     See  Man  of  Ross. 

Roubign6,  Jxilie  de  (zhii'le'  dii 
roo'ben'ya',  34).  The  title  of  a  novel 
by  Henry  Mackenzie,  and  the  name 
of  its  heroine. 

Rough,    and   Ready.     A    sobriquet 


given  to  General  Zacharv  Taylor 
ll7UU-18oO),  twelfth  president  of"  the 
United  States,  as  expressive  of  prom- 
inent traits  in  his  character. 

Round  Table.  1.  A  huge  circular 
marble  table,  at  which,  according  to 
the  ohl  romancers,  King  Arthur  and 
his  knights  were  accustomed  to  sit. 
It  was  originally  the  property  of 
Uther  Pendragon,  for  whom  it"  was 
made  b}'-  the  sorcerer  INIerlin  ;  it 
afterward  belonged  to  Leodegrance, 
king  of  Camelard,  and  came  to 
Arthur  as  the  portion  of  his  wife 
Guinever,  the  daughter  of  that  mon- 
arch. It  was  said  to  have  been  mod- 
eled after  one  established  by  Joseph 
of  Arimathea  in  imitation  of  that 
wdiich  Jesus  had  used  at  the  Last 
Supper.  Every  knight  had  his  seat, 
with  his  name  inscribed  on  it  in  let- 
ters of  gold.  Some  say  there  were 
only  thirteen  seats  around  it,  in  mem- 
ory of  the  thirteen  apostles.  Twelve 
only  were  occupied,  and  by  knights 
of  the  highest  lame.  The  thirteenth 
represented  the  seat  of  the  traitor  Ju- 
das. According  to  others,  there  were 
seats  for  lifty,  sixt}^  a  hundred,  or  a 
hundred  and  lifty;  and  an  empty 
place  —  called  ''the  perilous  siege" 
or  seat  —  was  left  for  the  sangreal. 

j8®^  "King  Arthur  stablished  all  his 
knights,  and  gave  them  lands  that  were 
not  rich  of  land,  and  charged  them  iicver 
to  do  outrage  nor  murder,  and  aiway  to 
fliH?  treason.  Also,  by  no  means  to  be 
cruel,  but  to  give  mercy  unto  him  that 
asked  mercy,  upon  pain  of  forfeiture  of 
their  worship,  and  lordship  of  King  Ar- 
thur, for  evermore,  and  alway  to  do  ladies, 
damosels,  and  gentlewomen  succor  upon 
pain  of  death.  Also,  that  no  man  take 
no  battailes  in  a  wrong  quarrel  for  no 
law,  nor  for  worldly  goods.  Unto  thi3 
were  all  the  knights  sworn  of  the  Round 
Table,  both  old  and  young." 

Morte  d'' Arthur. 

^@=  The  more  celebrated  members  of 
this  order  were,  Meliadus.  Ran.  Bohort, 
Caradoc,  R\ence,  I'haraniond,  Lancelot 
du  Lac,  Gawain,  Tristram,  Hector  de 
Marys,  Bliomberis,  finheiis,  Kay,  gagra- 
mour  le  Desirus,  Mnrhault.  Agravaine, 
Mordrt'd,  Dodynas  le  Sanvage,  Dynadani, 
Perceval,  Galahad,  Driam,  Palamedes, 
Amoral  of  Wales,  Yvain,  Ozanna,  Per 
saunt  of  Inde (called  '-of  Inde,"  notas  be  ■ 
ing  an  Indian,  but  from  the  color  he  wore 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  Words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii 
21 


ROU 


322 


ROZ 


namely,  dark  hlue),  Torres.  Lavaine,  Ga- 
rcth,  I'elleas,  Braudiles,  Bedivere,  Colgre- 
vancc,  Ladyuari,  Irouside,  Lionel,  Lucan. 

4)1^  This  ancient  order  of  kuijihthood 
was'  revived  by  Edward  111.  at  Windsor, 
upon  New- Year's  day,  1344,  in  order  to 
draw  tlie  best  soldiers  ot  Europe  into  his 
interest,  witli  a  view  to  tae  recovery  of 
I'r.aiice,  vvIucU  descended  to  him  in  right 
of  his  mot.ier.  A  liuge  round  table  is 
still  presei-ved  in  Winchester  castle  as 
the  identical  one  around  which  King  Ar- 
thur and  liis  knigiits  were  accustomed  to 
sit.  Tlie  tradition  that  it  is  such  dates 
back  to  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  cen- 
tury. 

"For  his  own  part,"  he  said,  "and  in  the 
land  where  he  was  bred,  men  would  as  Boon 
tike  for  their  mark  Kin^  Arthur's  Round  Ta- 
bic, which  held  sixty  knights  around  it." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

2.  A  similar  table  said  by  French 
and  Italian  romancers  to  have  been 
constructed  or  instituted  by  Charle- 
mai^iie  in  imitation  of  that  of  King 
Arthur. 

Roujtera  (roos'tem).  A  famous  half- 
mythical  Persian  hero,  another  Her- 
cules, who  is  said  to  have  lived  in 
the  sixteenth  century,  and  to  have 
been  a  descendant  of  the  celebrated 
Djamsliid.  Marvelous  exploits  are 
ascribc^d  to  him,  such  as  the  killing 
of  a  thousand  Tartars  at  one  blow, 
the  vanqtiishment  of  dragons  and 
devils,  the  capture  of  whole  cities,  and 
the  lilvc.  [Written  also  Rust  am, 
Rous  tarn,  Rostam.] 

Row-e'na.  A  Saxon  ])rincess,  ward  of 
Cedric  of  Rotherwood,  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of"  Ivanhoe,"  of  which 
she  is  the  nominal  heroine.  See 
REr.ECCA  TiiK  Jkwess. 

Row'land.  Another  orthography  of 
liolati'f,  one  of  the  most  famous  of 
Charl 'magne's  Twelve  Peers.  To 
give  one  "  a  Rowland  lor  an  Oliver" 
is  an  old  and  proverbial  expression 
used  to  signily  the  matching  of  one 
incredible  lie  Avith  another.  Oliver 
Avas  also  one  of  Charlemagne's  pal- 
adins; and  the  exploits  of  these  re- 
nowned heroes  are  rendered  ridicu- 
lously and  equally  extravagant  by 
the  old  romancers.    See  RoLuVnd  and 

Or.LANDO. 

I  promise  yon  that  he  pnve  mv  tcmatrant 
kmsman  a  "quid  pro  quo,"— a  Rowland  for 


his  OKrer,  ns  the  vulgar  say,  alluding  to  the 
two  celebrated  paladma  ot'diuneiiiajfiie. 

.^(/-  »('.  Scott. 

B-ow'land,  Childe.  Tlie  hero  of  an 
ola  bcottish  ballad,  ot  whicli  only  a 
tragment  has  been  preserved ;  the 
youngest  brother  of  tlie  lair  Burd 
Helen,  and  the  same  as  JioLind,  or 
Oi'ldiidi}^  the  famous  paladin.  Guided 
by  ]\Ierlin,  he  undertakes  tue  perilous 
task  of  bringing  back  his  si-ster  from 
EUlaiid,  whither  she  had  been  carried 
by  the  fairies.  See  Ijukd  Helen 
and  RoL.vxD. 

Childe  Rowland  to  the  dark  tower  came. 

(  Quoted  by  Shak.) 

Rowley,  Thomas.  The  name  of  a 
lictitious  priest  of  Bristol,  pretended 
by  Chatterton  to  have  lived  in  the 
reigns  of  Henry  VI.  and  Edward  IV., 
and  to  liave  written  several  remark- 
able poems,  of  which  Chatterton  him- 
self was  really  the  author. 

Royalist  Butcher.  [Fr.  Le  Boucher 
Jicy'i/iste.]  A  sobricjuct  given  to 
Blaise  de  Montluc  (1502-1527),  a 
French  captain  distinguished  for  his 
cruelties  to  the  Protestants  in  the 
time  of  Charles  IX. 

Royal  Martyr.  Charles  I.  of  Eng- 
land, who  was  beheaded  Jan.  30, 
lG4i),  in  pursuance  of  the  sentence  of 
death  pronounced  against  him  by  the 
High  Court  of  Justice,  on  the  27th 
of  the  same  month. 

We  are  at  a  loss  to  conceive  how  the  same 
persons,  who,  on  tlie  5th  tif  November,  thank 
God  for  wonderfullv  conducting  his  servant 
Kin";  Willinm,  and  for  making  all  opposition 
fall  before  him  until  lie  became  our  king  and 
governor,  can,  on  the  .'^Otli  of  .January,  con- 
trive to  be  afraid  that  the  blood  of  the"  Royal 
Martijr  may  be  visited  on  themselves  and 
their  children !  Jlacaulatj. 

Royal  'Prentice  in  the  Art  of  Poe- 
try. A  name  given  to  himself  by 
James  I.  of  England,  who  wrote  a 
great  many  miserable  roundels,  bal- 
lads, sonnets,  and  other  pieces  of 
verse.  His  hrst  publication  was  a 
collection  of  poems,  under  the  title 
of  "  The  Essavs  of  a  Prentice  in  the 
Divine  Art  of 'Poesy  "  (4to,  1584). 

Royal  Psalmist.  A  designation  oft- 
en applied  to  King  David,  the  reputed 
author  of  most  of  the  compositions 
known  as  "  The  Psalms." 

Roz'I-nan'te.      [Sp.   Hodnante,  from 


I®"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  ProQunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations 


RUB 


323 


RUM 


rocin,  a  small,  jaded  horse,  a  cart- 
horse, and  (inU\,  berore,  t'ornierly.J 
The  name  given  by  Uon  Quixote  to 
his    celebrated     steed.        feee     DoM 

QUIXOTK. 

;yj:^-  *•  lie  next  visited  his  horse,  which, 
though  he  had  more  coruers  tua.i  a  real 
(beiug  as  leau  as  GoiiueUa's,  tuat  tuiiiuin 
ptllis  tt  ussd  juU),  uevertaeless,  iu  liis 
eye  appeared  iiitiuicely  prelerahle  to  Alex- 
ander's Bucepualus,  o/  tuo  Cid".s  liavieea. 
Four  da.\s  he  coasuiiied  iu  iuveutiug  a 
name  for  this  remarkable  steud.  .  .  . 
After  having  chosen,  rejected,  amended, 
tortured,  and  revolved  a  world  of  names 
in  his  imagination,  he  fixed  upon  Rozi- 
nante, — an  appellation,  in  his  opinion, 
lofty,  sonorous,  and  expressive  not  ouly 
of  his  former,  but  likewise  of  his  pres- 
ent, situation,  which  entitled  him  to  the 
preference  over  all  other  horses  under  the 
sun.  Cervantts,  Trans. 

In  short,  bid  Rozinante  change  witli  Pega- 
sus, and  you  do  no  more  than  Mr.  Vane's 
letter  held  out  to  Triplet.  C.  lieade. 

Rubezahl  (ru'bu-ts41,  51,  70).  The 
name  of  a  famous  spirit  of  the  liie- 
sengebirge  in  Germany,  corresi)ond- 
ing  to  the  Puck  of  England.  He  is 
celebrated  in  innumerable  sagas,  bal- 
lads, and  tales,  and  represented  under 
the  various  forms  of  a  miner,  hunter, 
monk,  dwarf,  giant,  &c.  He  is  said 
to  aid  the  poor  and  oppressed,  and 
shows  benighted  wanderers  their 
road,  but  wages  incessant  Avar  with 
the  proud  and  wicked.  The  origin 
of  the  name  is  obscure.  See  Num- 
ber Nip. 

Road  aboundina:  in  gloomy  valleys,  intri- 
cate rock-libyrintiis,  haunts  of  sprite  Rii^e- 
zahl,  sources 'of  the  Elbe,  and  I  know  not 
what.  Carhjle. 

Ru'bi-con.  The  ancient  name  of  a 
small  stream  —  thought  to  be  the 
modern  Pisatello  —  which  formed  the 
boundary  between  Italy  and  Cisal- 
pine Gaul.  It  is  celebrated  from 
Caesar's  having  hesitated  about  cross- 
ing it  with  his  army,  and  initiat- 
ing civil  war,  in  the  year  49  b.  c. 
Hence,  "  to  pass  the  liubicon  "  has 
become  a  proverbial  phrase  to  denote 
the  taking  of  the  first  step  in  an  un- 
dertaking from  which  one  cannot  or 
will  not  recede. 

Rd'chi-el.  [Heb.  ruch,  air,  and  p^ 
god,  or  mighty  one.]  In  the  old 
Jewish  angelology,  the  name  of  the 


angel    who    ruled   the   air  and   the 
winds. 

Budge,  Barnaby.  The  title  of  a 
novel  by  L-iiarles  Dickens,  and  the 
name  or  its  liero,  a  hall-wittcd  lad 
whuse  companion  is  a  knowing  but 
evil-looking  raven. 

There  comes  Poe,  with  his  raven,  like  Bar- 

Three  lifihsof  him  genius  and  two  fifths  sheer 
fudge.  Lowell. 

Riidiger  (rli-'de-gCf,  51,58,04).  The 
faithful  squire  of  Chriemiiild  in  the 
great  epic  jjoem  of  Germany,  the 
"•  Nibelungen  Lied." 

Rug'by.  A  servant  to  Dr.  Caius,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Men-}'  Wives  of 
Windsor." 

Ruggiero  (rood-ja-'ro,  102).  A  young 
Saracen  knight,  born  of  Christian  par- 
ents, who  figures  in  Bojardo's  •'  Or- 
lando Innamorato,"  and  in  Ariosto's 
"  Orlando  Furioso."  In  the  latter 
poem,  he  falls  in  love  with  Brad- 
amante,  a  Christian  Amazon,  and 
sister  to  Rinaldo.  After  numerous 
adventures,  crosses,  and  narrow  es- 
capes, the  poet,  in  the  last  canto  of 
the  poem,  makes  them  marry;  and 
from  their  union  he  derives  the  gen- 
ealogy of  the  house  of  Este.  Rug- 
giero is  noted  for  the  possession  of  a 
hippogrifJ",  or  Avingcd  horse,  and  also 
of  a  veiled  shield,  the  dazzling  splen- 
dor of  which,  when  suddenly  dis- 
closed, struck  with  blindness  and  as- 
tonishment all  eyes  that  beheld  it. 
This  he  threw  into  a  hidden  well,  in 
a  nameless  forest,  in  an  undiscovered 
land,  after  having  Avon  too  cheap  a 
victory  by  its  accidental  exposure. 
[Written  also  Ruggieri,  Roger o, 
Ruggero,  Rugger  i.] 

Rtunp,  The.  {£»!/■  flist.)  See 
Pride's  Purge;  see  also  infra. 

Rumpelstilzchen  (robm/pel-stilts'- 
ken,  71).  A  character  in  a  German 
nursery  tale,  Avhich  has  been  trans- 
lated into  English,  and  is  composed, 
according  to  Grimm,  of  several 
mutually  complementary  narratives, 
originating  in  Hesse. 

ijgr"  Rumpelstilzchen  is  a  dwarf  who 
spins  straw  into  gold  for  a  certain  miller's 
daughter, — a   task   enjoined  upon  her, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  wliich  the  numbers  after  certain  word*  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


RUM 


324 


RYE 


under  penalty  of  death,  by  the  king, 
who,  in  tae  sequel,  marries  lier.  lu  her 
distress,  tue  girl  had  eugayed  to  give  the 
little  mau  her  tirst  ciiiid  as  a  reward  lor 
the  service  he  had  rendered  her ;  but 
wheu  the  tultilluieut  of  the  promise  was 
claimed,  she  grieved  so  bitterly  and 
pleaded  so  hard,  tuat  he  gave  her  three 
days  in  which  to  liud  out  his  name, 
telling  her,  that,  if  she  succeeded,  she 
shfllhld  keep  the  child.  On  the  first  and 
second  days,  when  he  presented  himself 
before  her,  she  repeated  all  the  names 
she  knew ;  but  at  each  one  he  said.  "  That 
is  not  my  name."'  Early  on  the  third 
day,  a  messenger  of  the  queen  accident- 
ally ."^aw  liim  in  an  out-of-the-way  place, 
where  he  lived,  and  overheard  him  ex- 
claim, '"IIow  glad  I  am  that  nobody 
knows  my  name  is  Ilumpelstilzchen  !  "' 
The  queen,  being  told  of  this,  was  ready 
for  him  at  his  next  appearance  ;  and  he 
was  so  chagrined  .-it  finding  his  secret 
known  as  to  destroy  himself  on  the  spot. 

Rump  Parliament.  ( Eiig.  Hist. )  A 
derisive  name  applied  to  a  remnant 
or  the  famous  Long  Parliament  of 
England,  which  re-assembled  on  the 
6th  of  3Iay,  1G59,  after  the  dissolu- 
tion of  the  parliament  summoned  by 
Richard  Cromwell  on  the  27th  of 
January,  and  dissolved  by  him  on 
the  22d  of  April,  of  the  same  year. 
[Called  also,  simply,  The  Rump,  q.  v.] 

Ku'pert,  Knight.  Formerly,  and 
still  in  some  of  the  villages  of  north- 
ern Germany,  a  personage  clad  in 
high  buskins,  white  robe,  mask,  and 
enormous  flaxen  ^^■ig,  who,  at  Christ- 
mas time,  receives  Irom  parents  the 
presents  designed  for  their  children, 
goes  about  from  house  to  house, 
every  Avhere  received  with  great 
pomp  and  Avelcome,  and,  calling  the 
children,  distributes  to  each  a  pres- 
ent. Like  St.  Nicholas,  he  is  sup- 
posed to  exercise  a  secret  supervision 
over  children  ;  but  more  especially  he 
keeps  watch  over  naughty  children, 
and  thus  answers  to  the  English 
Robin  (Joo(lfdloiL\  or  Hubyoblin.     The 


horseman  in  the  May  pageant  is  in 
some  parts  of  Germany  called  Ru- 
precht,  or  Rupert. 

Rush,  Friar.     See  Friar  Rush. 

Russian  Byron.  A  name  given  by 
his  coiintryuu'u  to  Alexander  Sergei- 
vitcli  Pushkin  (J7  'J-18;j7j,  the  most 
distinguished  poet  of  Russia  in  the 
present  century.  He  is  said  to  have 
not  a  little  of  the  bold  and  brilliant 
genius  of  his  prototype,  and,  like 
him,  to  excel  in  vigor  of  imagerj' 
and  impassioned  sentiment. 

Russian  Mu-rat'  (o?-  mii'ra').  A 
name  given  by  the  Irenchto  jNIichael 
Miloradowitch  (1770-1820),  distin- 
guished in  the  wars  against  Napo- 
leon, and  accountid  one  of  the  boldest 
and  most  enterprising  and  active  of 
the  Russian  generals  of  his  time. 

Rye-house  Plot.  {Encj.  Hist.)  The 
name  given  to  an  alleged  conspiracy 
to  assassinate  Charles  IL  and  his 
brother,  the  Duke  of  York  (after- 
ward James  II. ),  at  a  place  called 
Rye-house,  between  London  and 
NcAvmarket,  as  they  returned  from 
Xewmarlict  races.  The  execution 
of  the  plot  is  said  to  have  been  frus- 
trated by  the  king's  leaving  New- 
market somewhat  sooner  than  was 
expected. 

Ry'ence,  King.  A  knight  of  the 
Round  Table,  king  of  Ireland,  North 
Wales,  and  many  isles.  He  sent  to 
King  Arthur  for  his  beard,  to  en- 
able him,  Avith  those  of  eleven  other 
kings,  Avhom  he  had  already  discom- 
fited, to  purfle  his  mantle.  jNIeeting 
■with  an  angrv  refusal,  he  entered 
Britain  with  a  large  army,  to  en- 
force his  demand,  but  was  captured, 
and  sent  as  a  prisoner  to  Arthur, 
who,  according  to  some  accounts, 
mamed  his  daughter  Guinever. 
[Written  also   Ryon.] 


■  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Expianationi, 


SAB 


325 


SAG 


S; 


Sabreur,  Le  Beau  (lu  bd  sS'bror', 
4  5).     See  Handsome  Swordsman. 

Ja-bri'na.  The  virgin  daui^iiter  of 
l.ucrina'  and  Estrildas,  thrown  into 
the  Severn  (Lat.  Sd/trinn)  by  Giien- 
dolen,  a  divorced  wife  of  Locrine. 
In  Milton's  "  Conuis  "  and  Fletclier's 
"  Faithful  Shepiierdess,"  siie  is  fabled 
to  have  been  translbrnied  into  a  riv- 
er-nymph, that  her  honor  might  be 
preserved  inviolate.     See  Lockine. 

To    fashion'b    light    tempters,     her    very 
thought  was  as  closed  as, 
"  Under  the  glassy,  cool,  translucent  wave," 
was  the  ear  of  Sabrijia  to  the  comrades  of 
Comus.  iSir  E.  Buliver  Lyttoii. 

^5h'a-ris's3.  [From  Gr.  o-aK^ap, 
craKxa-poi',  sugar,  like  Melissa  from 
/LieAt,  honey.]  A  poetical  name  given 
by  Waller  (1605-1687)  to  tha  eldest 
daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Leicester, 
Lady  Dorothea  Sidney,  for  whose 
hand  he  was  an  unsuccessful  suitor. 

Fancy  Sdcharissa  beckoning  and  smjliiig 
from  the  upper  window.  Thackei  ay. 

^j,cred  Island.  An  old  name  of 
Ireland;  the  same  as  Holy  Island. 
See  Holy  Island,  1. 

Sacred  "War.  (6V.  Hht.)  1.  A 
war  undertaken  by  the  Amphicty- 
onic  league  —  a  council  established 
at  a  very  early  period  tor  the  man- 
agement of  all  affairs  relative  to 
Greece  —  for  the  defense  of  Delphi 
against  the  Cirrh;eans.  It  began  b. 
c.  595,  and  ended  b.  c.  587. 

2.  A  war  instituted  by  the  Athe- 
nians for  the  purpose  of  restoring 
Delphi  to  the  Phocians,  from  whom 
it  had  been  taken  by  the  Lacedai- 
moniaus.    b.  c.  448-447. 

3.  A  war  in  which  the  Phocians, 
who  had  seized  Delphi,  b.  c.  357, 
were  attacked  and  conquered  by 
Philip  of  Macedon,  as  chief  of  the 
Amphictyonic  league.  This  is  the 
most  celebrated  of  the  Sacred  Wars. 

Sac'ri-pant,  King.     1.  King  of  Cir- 
cassia,  and  a  lover  of  Angelica,  in 
the  poems  of  Bojardo  and  Ariosto. 
This  is  no  new  thing,  said  Don  Quixote, 


nor  is  it  di^cult  to  be  done.  "With  the  same 
stratagem,  Sacri))ant\\vui\.  Ills  steed  stolon  from 
under  him  by  that  notorious  thief  Bruiiello  at 
the  siege  of  Albracca.  Ccrva/ilcs,  Truiiji. 

2.  A  pei'sonage  introduced  by  Ales- 
sandro  fassoni  (1565-16:55),  the  Ital- 
ian poet,  in  his  mock-heroic  poem 
entitled  "  Secchia  Kapita,"  or  "  The 
Kape  of  the  Bucket;"  represented 
as  false,  brave,  noisy,  and  hectoring. 
The  name  is  quoted  as  a  synonym 
with  vanity  and  braggart  courage. 

Let  us  hunt  up  this  Sacripant,  let  us  beat 
him  as  we  would  the  Devil.      Qranval,  Trans. 

Saehrimnir      (sza-rim'ner).      (Sntjid. 

Myt/i.)    A  boar  whose  flesh  furnishes 

food  for  the   banquets  of  Valhalla. 

Every  day  it  is  served  up  at  table, 

and  every  day  it  is  entirely  renewed 

again. 
Saga  (szS^gd).     [From  the  same  root 

as  the    Eng.    sny.'\     (Scand.    Myth.) 

The  goddess  of  history. 

Sage  of  Mon'ti-cel'lo.  An  appel- 
lation often  given,  in  America,  to 
Thomas  Jefferson  (1743-1826),  third 
president  of  the  United  States,  from 
the  name  of  his  country-seat,  and  in 
allusion  to  his  wise  statesmanship 
and  great  political  sagacity. 

As  from  the  grave  where  Henry  sleeps, 
From  Vernon's  weeping-willow, 

And  from  the  grnssy  pall  which  hidei 
The  Sage  of  MoniiceUo, 

So  from  the  lenf-strewn  burial-stone 
Of  Randolph's  lowly  dwelling, 

Virginia,  o'er  thy  land  of  slaves 


A  warning  voice  is  swellinn 


Wit  it  tier. 


Sage  of  Samos.     See  Samian  Sage. 

6ag'it-ta-ry.  A  famous  imaginaiy 
monster  introduced  into  the  armies 
of  the  Trojans  by  the  fabling  writer, 
Guido  da  Colonna,  whose  work  was 
translated  by  Lydgate.  He  is  de- 
scribed as  '•  a  terrible  archer,  half 
man  and  half  beast,  Avho  neighs  like 
a  horse,  whose  eyes  sparkle  like  tire, 
and  strike  dead  like  lightning."  He 
is  evidently  the  same  as  the  archer- 
centaur,  the  sign  Sagittarius  in  the 
zodiac. 

The  dreadful  Sagittary 
Appalls  our  numbers;  haste  we,  Dionied, 
To  reinforcement,  or  we  perish  all.       Sliak. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbt^  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SAG 


326 


SAT 


Jj^  The  same  name  is  given  in  "  Othel- 
lo "  (a.  i.,  PC.  1  and  3)  to  the  residence  of 
the  military  officers  at  the  arsenal  in  Ven- 
ice, from  the  figure  of  au  archer  over  the 
door. 

Bagramour  l8  Desirus  (sag'rS-moor 
lu  dfi-'ze-ruus').  A  kni<i;lit  of  the 
Kound  Table,  who  ligure^^  in  ''  Lance- 
lot du  Lac,"  "  Morte  d'Arthur,"  aud 
other  old  romances  of  chivalry. 

Sailor  King.  A  title  popularly  con- 
ferred upon  Williani  IV.  of  England, 
who  entered  the  navy  in  1771),  at 
fourteen  years  of  age,  and  continued 
in  the  service  till  1827,  having  passed 
from  the  rank  of  niidshij)inan  to  that 
of  captain,  by  regular  promotion,  and 
thence  by  a  merely  formal  ascent  to 
that  of  admiral  of  the  fieet  in  1801, 
and  that  of  lord  high  admiral  in  1827. 

St.  Befana.     See  Befana,  La. 

St.  Brandan,  Island  of.  See  Island 
OK  St.  Bkaxdan. 

St.  Christoplier.  A  saint  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  and  Greek  churches. 
Legendary  writers  place  him  in  the 
third  century,  but  critical  historians 
reject  him  as  imaginary,  and  regard 
his  history  as  wholly  fabulous.  Ac- 
cording to  the  common  account,  he 
was  a  native  of  Lycia;  but  the 
"  Legenda  Aurea  "  (cap.  100)  says 
that  he  was  a  Canaanite,  and  adds, 
that  he  was  very  tall  and  fearful  to 
look  at.  So  proud  was  he  of  his  bulk 
and  strength,  that  he  would  serve 
only  the  mightiest  princes,  and  was 
ever  in  search  of  a  stronger  master. 
At  length  he  entered  the  service  of 
the  Uevil;  but,  finding  that  his  new 
master  was  thrown  into  great  treyjida- 
tion  and  alarm  by  the  sight  of  an 
image  of  Christ,  he  lost  all  respect 
for  him,  and  resolved  to  seek  out  and 
follow  the  Saviour.  For  a  long  time 
his  quest  was  vain:  but  he  finally 
found  him  in  a  little  child,  whom  he 
undertook  to  carry  across  a  deep 
river,  which  had  no  bridge,  —  or, 
according  to  a  late  Latin  hymn,  the 
Red  Sea, — and  whose  weight  kept 
growing  greater  and  greater,  until 
Christopher  began  to  sink  under 
the  burden,  when  the  child  declared 
himself  to  be  Christ,  and  -wTought  a 


miracle  to  prove  it.  Christopher  was 
convinced,  embraced  Christianity, 
performed  miracles  him.^^elf,  was 
martyred,  canonized,  and  became  au 
object  of  the  most  eager  veneration. 
The  sight  of  his  image  was  thought 
to  be  a  protection  from  sickness, 
earthquakes,  tire,  or  Hood,  for  the 
re.'-t  of  the  day,  and  it  was  therefore 
earved  and  painted  in  huge  propor- 
tions on  the  outside  of  churches  and 
houses,  especially  in  Italy,  Spain,  and 
Germany.  His  body  is  said  to  be  at 
Valencia,  in  Spain;  he  has  an  arm  at 
Compostella,  a  jaw-bone  at  Astorga, 
a  shoulder  at  St.  Peter's  in  Home,  a 
tooth  and  a  rib  at  Venice,  and  many 
other  relics,  all  enormous,  at  other 
places.  The  Greek  church  celebrates 
his  festival  on  the  iJth  of  ]May;the 
Roman  Catholic,  on  the  25th  of  July. 

Like  the  great  {riant  ChHstopher  it  stands 
L'poii  the  brink  of  the  tempes^tuous  wave, 

Wading  far  out  among  the  rocks  and  sands, 
The  night-o'ertaken"  mariner  to  save. 

Longfellow,  The  Light-house. 

St.  Distafif.  An  imaginary  saint  to 
Avhom  the  7th  ofJanuar}-  —  the  day 
after  the  Epiphany,  or  Tweltth-dav  — 
is  consecrated  in  some  localities.  The 
Christmas  holidays  being  ended,  the 
distaft'  and  other  industrious  employ- 
ments are  now  resumed.  The  name 
occurs  in  an  old  ballad,  entitled  "  "Wit 
a-sporting  in  a  pleasant  Grove  of  new 
Fancies,"  Lond.,  1657. 

"  Partly  worke  and  partly  play 
You  iniist  on  St.  Distajfs  dav; 
Give  St.  Di.<tajf'vi.\\  the  right," 
Then  give  Christmas-sport  good  night." 

St.  Fil'o-me'na.  The  name  of  a 
pseudo-saint  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
church,  whose  worship  commenced 
in  the  present  century.  Longfellow 
has  applied  the  name  to  Florence 
Nightingale,  probably  from  its  re- 
semblance to  the  Greek  and  Latin 
pJiilumela,  a  nightingale,  and  also 
because,  in  a  picture  by  Sabatelli,  St. 
Filomena  is  represented  as  hovering 
over  a  group  of  the  sick  and  maimed, 
who  are  healed  by  her  intercession. 

J^iT'  In  the  year  1802,  a  gmve  waa 
found  in  the  cemetery  of  St.  Priscilla.  by 
whicii  were  the  remains  of  a  glass  vase 
that  had  held  blood,  the  indication  of  the 
burial-place  of  a  martyr.     The  grave  was 


tGf  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


SAI 


327 


SAI 


closed  by  three  tiles,  on  which  were  the 
followiiii?  words,  paiuted  iu  red  letters  : 
LVMENA  PAXTE  CVMFl.  There  were 
also  rudely  painted  ou  the  tiles  two  an- 
chors, three  darts,  a  torch,  and  a  palui- 
braneh.  The  inscription  was  read  by 
placing  the  first  tile  after  the  two  oth- 
ers, thus,  —  "  I'ax  tecum  Filuniena," 
Peace  be  with  thee,  Filuuieua  ;  and  Filu- 
meua  was  adopted  as  a  new  saint  in  the 
long  list  of  those  to  whom  the  Roman 
church  has  given  this  title.  It  was  sup- 
posed, that,  in  the  haste  of  closing  the 
grave,  the  tiles  had  been  thus  misplaced. 
Thereupon  a  devout  artisan,  a  priest,  and 
a  nun,  were  all  severally  visited  by  vis- 
ions of  a  virgin  martyr,  who  told  them 
the  story  of  Diocletian's  love  for  her.  of 
her  refusal,  and  subsequent  martyrdom  ; 
and  explained,  that,  having  been  once 
called  Lumena,  she  was  baptized  Filu- 
niena, which  she  explained  as  a  daughter 
of  light  I  Some  human  remains  near  the 
stone  being  dignified  as  relics  of  St.  Filo- 
mena,  she  was  presented  to  Mugnano, 
and,  on  the  way,  not  only  worked  many 
miracles  on  her  adorers,  but  actually  re- 
paired her  own  skeleton,  and  made  her 
hair  grow.  So  many  wonders  are  said 
to  have  been  worked  by  this  phantom 
saint,  that  a  book  printed  at  Paris  in  the 
year  1847  calls  her  ''  La  Thaumaturge 
(111  19//?f  Steele ;''''  and  she  is  by  far  the 
most  fashionable  patrones.s  in  the  Itomish 
church.  Norton.      Yonge. 

St.  George,  Chevalier  de.  A  name 
assumed  by  James  Francis  Edward 
Stuart,  the  elder  Pretender.  See 
Pketendeks,  The. 

St.  Graal,  or  San'grea,!.  [Old  Fr., 
holyp'ail;  r/nial^  (/real,  (jrasal,  Pr. 
grazal,  from  Middle  Lat.  f/raclalis, 
f^radale,  as  if  from  a  Latin  word 
cratalis,  from  crater,  cratei-n,  a  cup.] 
A  vessel  made  of  a  single  precious 
stone  (usually  said  to  be  an  emerald \ 
from  wliich  our  Saviour  was  supposed 
to  have  drunk  at  the  last  supper,  and 
which  was  afterward  lilled  with  the 
blood  which  flowed  from  the  wounds 
with  Avhich  he  was  pierced  at  the 
crucitixion ;  or,  according  to  some 
accounts,  it  was  the  platter  on  which 
the  paschal  lamb  was  served  at  the 
last  Passover  which  Jesus  celebrated 
with  his  disciples.  It  is  fabled  to 
have  been  preserved  and  carried  to 
England  by  Joseph  of  Arimathea. 
It  remained  there  many  years,  an 
object  of  pilgrimage  and   de.otion: 


but  at  length  it  disappeared,  one  of 
its  keepers  luiviug  violated  the  condi- 
tion ot  strict  virtue  in  thought,  word, 
and  deed,  which  was  imposed  upon 
those  who  had  charge  of  it.  Thence- 
forth many  knights  -  errant,  particu- 
larly those  of  the  Pound  Table,  spent 
their  lives  in  searching  lor  it,  and  Sir 
Galahad  Avas  at  last  successtul  in 
linding  it.  Various  miraculous  prop- 
erties are  attributed  to  this  disli,  by 
the  old  romancers,  such  as  the  power 
of  prolonging  life,  preserving  chas- 
tity, and  the  like.  In  some  legends, 
it  is  said  to  have  been  brought  down 
from  heaven  by  angels,  and  given  in 
charge  to  a  body  of  knights,  who 
guarded  it  in  a  temple -like  castle 
on  top  of  the  inaccessible  mountain 
IMontsalvage,  whence  it  would  be 
borne  away  and  vanish  from  their 
sight,  if  approached  by  any  but  a  per- 
fectly pure  and  boly  person.  [Called 
also  Jlii/y  ( It-ail.]  See  Galahad, 
SxK,  and  King  Peciieur. 

A  sinful  mail,  and  unconfessed. 
He  took  tlie  Stnigrear^  boly  quest, 
And,  shnnl)eiiii^,  saw  the  vision  high, 
He  might  not  view  witli  waking  ej'e. 

.■Sir  W.  Scott. 

St.  Hilaire,  Marco  de  (mai-'ko'  du 
so"t  e^lei-',  G2,  04).  A  pseudonym  of 
tmile  IVIarc  Hilaire,  a  French  writer 
of  the  present  day  (b.  1790). 

Sain  tine  (san/ten',  62).  A  pseudonym 
adopted  by  Joseph  Xavier  Bonil'ace 
(b.  1797),  a  popular  French  writer, 
author  of  "Picciola"  and  other  well- 
known  works. 

St.  Le'6n.  The  title  of  a  novel  by 
William  Goodwin  (175G-1836),  and 
the  name  of  its  hero,  a  man  Avho  be- 
comes possessed  of  the  elixir  of  life 
(by  which  he  has  the  power  of  re- 
newing his  youth),  and  the  secret 
of  the  transmutation  of  metals  into 
gold,  —  acquisitions  which  only  bring 
him  misfortunes  and  much  protracted 
misery. 

St.  Nicholas.  The  patron  saint  of 
boys.  He  is  said  to  have  been  bishop 
of  Myra,  in  Lycia,  and  to  have  died 
in  the  year  32(5.  Of  his  personal  his- 
tory- little  or  nothing  is  knoMU  with 
certainty.  The  young  were  imiver- 
sally  taught  to  revere  him,  and  the 


nnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SAI 


328 


SAI 


popular  fiction  which  represents  him 
as  tiie  bearer  of  presents  to  cliildren 
on  Christinas  eve  is  well-known.  He 
is  the  S'tnti  Ciius  and  the  Kriss 
Krini/le  oi'  the  Dutch.  [Written  also 
Nicolas.]     See  Kris.-?  Kringle. 

I®"  •'  St.  Nicliohis  i.x  said  to  have  sup- 
plied tliree  destitute  luaideus  with  mar- 
riage portioQs  bv  .secretly  leaving  money 
at  tiieir  window,  and  a.s  lii.s  day  occurred 
ju.'^t  before  ij;iristiii;t.-s,  he  thus  was  made 
the  purveyor  of  t  le  gifts  of  the  .season  to 
all  children  in  b'landers  and  Holland,  who 
put  out  their  shoe  or  stocking  in  the 
confidence  that  Santi  Ivltus.  or  Knecht 
Clobes,  as  th'jy  call  him.  will  put  in  a 
prize  for  good  conduct  before  morning. 
Another  legenl  described  the  saint  as 
having  brought  three  murdered  children 
to  life  agiin  ;  an'l  this  rendered  him  the 
patron  of  boys,  especially  school-boys." 

Yonge. 

St.  Patrick's,  Deau  of.  See  Deax 
OK  St.  Patkiciv's. 

St.  Patrick's  Purgatory.  The  sub- 
ject ami  locality  of"  a  legend  long 
famous  throughout  Europe.  The 
scene  is  laid  in  Ireland,  upon  an  islet 
in  Lough  Derg.  Here  St.  Patrick 
w:is  supposed  to  have  made  a  cave, 
through  which  was  a  descent  into 
Purgatory  fo.  the  living  sinner  who 
was  desirous  of  expiating  his  evil 
deeds  while  yet  in  the  tlesh.  The 
punishmLMits  undergone  were  analo- 
gous to  those  described  by  Dante  in 
his  "  Divina  Commedia  "  The  in- 
terest in  this  legend  and  locality 
tended,  pirhaps,  as  much  as  any 
thing,  to  lix  the  popular  notion  of  an 
intermediate  state  of  existence.  The 
story  was  made  the  subject  of  a  ro- 
mance in  the  fourteenth  century ;  and, 
in  Spain,  in  the  seventeenth  century, 
it  was  dramatized  by  Calderon.  See 
OwAiN,  Sir. 

4®-  •'  Who  has  not  heard  of  St.  Pat- 
rick's Purg  itory,  of  its  my.>terious  won- 
ders, and  of  the  crowds  of  devotees  who 
have  for  ages  been  attracted  by  its  re- 
puted sanctity  ?    There  it  stands,  with  its  i 
chapels  and  its  toll-houses  :  and  thither   i 
repiir  yearly  crowds  of  pious  pilgrims,   j 
who  would  wash  away  at  once.  b>  a  vi>it  j 
to  these  holy  shores,   the   accumulated   I 
sins  of  their  lives."  Wright,   j 

St.  Swith'in.  P)ishop  of  Winchester, 
and  tutor  to  King  Alfred,  canonized 


by  the  Roman  Catliolic  church.  He 
is  said  to  have  wrouglit  many 
miracles,  the  most  celebrated  being 
a  rain  of  forty  days'  continuance,  by 
which  he  testified  his  displeasure  at 
an  attempt  of  the  monks  to  bury  him 
in  the  chancel  of  the  minster,  instead 
of  the  open  church-yard,  as  he  had 
directed.  Hence  the  popular  super- 
stition, that,  if  it  rain  on  St.  Swithin's 
day  (.luly  15),  it  will  rain  for  forty 
days  thereafter. 

St.  Tam'in|-n^.  An  Indian  chief, 
who,  in  the  United  States,  has  been 
])op}d'n-bj  canonized  as  a  saint,  and 
adopted  as  the  tutelary  genius  of 
one  l)ranch  of  the  Democratic  party. 
Tammany,  or  Tammenund  (the  name 
is  variously  written),  was  of  the 
Delaware  nation,  and  lived  probably 
in  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury. He  resided  in  the  country 
which  is  now  Delaware  until  he  Avas 
of  age,  when  he  moved  beyond  the 
AlK'ghanies.  and  settled  on  the  banks 
of  the  Ohio.  He  became  a  chief 
sachem  of  his  tribe,  and.  being  always 
a  friend  of  the  whites,  often  restiained 
his  warriors  frf)m  deeds  of  violence. 
His  rule  was  always  discreet,  and  he 
endeavored  to  induce  his  followers  to 
cultivate  agriculture  and  the  arts 
of  peace,  rather  than  those  of  war. 
When  he  became  old,  he  called  a 
council  to  have  a  successor  appointed; 
after  which  the  residue  of  his  liie  was 
spent  in  retirement  :  and  tradition 
relates  that  '"  young  and  old  repaired 
to  his  wigwam  to  hear  him  discorrse 
wisdom."  His  great  motto  was, 
''  Unite  in  peace  for  happiness,  in 
war  for  defense."  When  and  by 
whom  he  was  first  styled  S  lint,  or 
by  what  whim  he  was  chosen  to  be 
the  patron  of  the  Democracy,  does 
not  appear. 

^g="  •'  The  Americans  sometimes  ".aD 
their  tutelar  saint  •  Taniend\ .'  a  corrup' 
tion  of  the  name  [Tammenund]  of  the  re- 
nowned chief  here  introduced.  There  nr* 
many  rraditinns  which  speik  of  the  chir 
acter  and  power  of  Tamenun<l."    Cuofr. 

This  is  the  first  of  Mny:  our  shcphcnl.s  and 
nyniiilis  art- colchr'tin'^r  our  plo'ious  ^t.  Tan- 
»(ianv'<  day.  Wi-  '11  hear  thf  soii'.r  out.  ard 
then  ioin  in  the  f  •ulic,  and  <'h"rii!i  it  o'er  nrrf 
o'crf'^ain.  This  day  shall  be  devoted  to  io« 
and   istivity.  Ohl  (Amer.)  Plan. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation*, 


SAK 


329 


SAN 


Sakhrat  (sa^'r.it).  {Mohammedan 
Myth.)  A  sacred  stone  of  wliicli  a 
single  grain  gives  miraculous  powers 
to  the  possessor.  This  stone  is  of  an 
emerald  color,  and  its  reticctcd  light 
is  the  cause  of  the  tints  of  the  sky. 
Upon  it  rests  Mount  Caf.  See  Mount 
Cap\ 

Salamanca,  Bachelor  of.  See  Don 
Chkruhim. 

Sa-la'ni-o.  A  fi'iend  to  Antonio  and 
Bassanio,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Mer- 
chant of  Venice." 

Sa'la-ri'no.  A  fi-iend  to  Antonio  and 
Bassanio,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Mer- 
chant of  Venice." 

Sal-mo'neas.  [Gr.  SaA/LLwi/ev?.]  {Gr. 
(f  Rom.  Mi/th.)  A  king  of  Elis,  son 
of  vEolus,  and  brother  of  Sisyphus; 
celebrated  for  his  arrogance  and  im- 
piety. He  ordered  sacritices  to  be 
offered  to  himself,  as  if  he  were  a 
god,  and  even  imitated  the  thunder 
and  lightning  of  Jupiter,  for  which 
he  was  struck  by  a  thunderbolt,  and 
punished  in  the  infernal  regions. 

It  was  to  be  the  literary  Salnio/ieus  of  the 
political  Jupiter.  Sir  E.  Bulwer  Lytton. 

Salt  River.  An  imaginary  river,  up 
Avhich  defeated  political  parties  are 
supposed  to  be  sent  to  oblivion. 
[Cant,  U.  S.] 

/}®=  "  The  phrase, '  To  row  up  Salt  Riv- 
er,' has  its  origin  in  the  fact  that  there  is  a 
small  stream  of  that  name  in  Kentuck}', 
the  passage  of  which  is  made  difficult  and 
laborious  as  wt-ll  by  it ;  tortuous  course  as 
by  the  abundance  of  shallows  and  bars. 
The  real  application  of  the  phrase  is  to 
the  unhappy  wight  who  has  tlie  task  of 
propelliug  the  boat  up  the  stream  ;  but, 
in  political  or  slang  usage,  it  is  to  those 
who  are  rowed  up.'''  J.  Inman. 

Sam.  A  popular  synonym  in  the  Unit- 
ed States  for  the  Know-nothing,  or 
Native-American,  party.  The  name 
involves  an  allusion  to  Uncle  Sa.m, 
the  common  personification  of  the 
government  of  the  United  States. 

Sam,  Dicky.     See  Dicky  Sam. 

Sam,  Uncle.     See  Uncle  Saai. 

Samael  (sa'mS-el).  In  the  old  Jewish 
demonology,  the  prince  of  demons, 
who  in  the  guise  of  a  serpent  tempted 
Eve.     Many  Rabbins,  however,  say 


that  he  is  the  angel  of  death,  who  is 
armed  with  a  sword,  or  with  a  bow 
aiul  arrows,  liy  some,  he  is  identified 
with  Asmodeus. 

Sam'bo.  A  cant  designation  of  the 
negro  race. 

No  race  lias  ever  shown  such  capabilities  of 
adai)tation  to  varyiuy;  soil  and  circumstances 
as  the  negro.  Alike  to  thcni  the  snows  of 
Canada,  the  hard,  rocky  land  of  New  Eng- 
land, or  the  gorgeous  piofusion  of  the  South- 
ern States.  Scimbo  and  Cuffcy  expand  under 
them  all.  Harriet  lieccher  Stowe. 

Samian  Sage.  An  appellation  be- 
stowed upon  Pythagoras  (about  584- 
506  B.  c),  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
philosophers  of  antiquity,  wiio,  ac- 
cording to  the  received  opinion,  was 
a  native  of  Samos. 

Sampson.  A  servant  to  Capulet,  in 
Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  ''  Romeo 
and  Juliet." 

Sampson,  Dominie.  See  Dominie 
Sampson. 

Sam'son  (-sn).  A  judge  of  Israel  in 
the  twelfth  century  before  Christ;  fa- 
mous for  his  wonderful  strength, — 
which  was  dependent  on  the  length 
of  his  hair, — and  for  his  unfortunate 
marriage  with  the  artful  Delilah,  a 
Philistine,  who  betrayed  him  to  his 
enemies.  Milton's  magnificent  clas- 
sical tragedy  of  "  Samson  Agonistes  " 
—  that  is,  Samson  the  Champion,  or 
Combatant  —  is  founded  upon  and 
embodies  the  Scriptural  account  of 
Samson. 

Sancho.     See  Panza,  Sancho. 

Sanction,  Pragmatic.  See  Prag- 
matic Sanction. 

Sand,  George  (jorj  sand,  or  zhofzh 
so",  62).  A  pseudonym  of  Madame 
Dudevant,  a  distinguished  French 
authoress  of  the  present  day  (b.  1804). 
The  name  Sand  was  assumed  in  con- 
sequence of  Mme.  Dudevant's  friend- 
ship for  Jules  Sandeau,  a  young  stu- 
dent, conjointly  with  whom  she  wrote 
her  first  novel,  "  Rose  et  Blanche," 
which  was  published  (1832)  with 
"Jules  Sand"  on  the  title-page  as 
the  author's  name. 

San-dal'phon.  In  the  Rabbinical  sys- 
tem of  angelology,  one  of  three  angels 
who  receive  the  prayers  of  the  Israel- 


»nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


SAN 


330 


SAT 


Ites  and  weave  crowns  from  them. 
Longfellow  has  made  this  superstition 
the  subject  of  a  beautiful  poem. 

Sand'ford,  Harry.  One  of  the  lead- 
ing characters  in  Thomas  Day's  pop- 
ular juvenile  work  entitled  "  The 
History  of  Sandtbrd  and  AJerton." 

Now  the  poor  cottager  has  .  .  .  something 
of  thf  pleasure  wliich  Sandford  and  Merton 
felt  when  they  had  built  and  thatched  their 
house,  and  then  sat  within  it,  gravely  proud 
and  happy.  A.  K.  H.  Boyd. 

San'gla-more.  The  sword  of  Brag- 
gadochio,  in  Spenser's  '^  Faery 
Queen." 

Ssuagrado,  Doctor  (san-gra'ffio,  56). 
The  name  of  a  ])hysician  in  Le  Sage's 
novel  of  "  Gil  Bias,"  who  practices 
blood-letting  as  a  remedy  for  all  sorts 
of  ailments.  By  Le  Sage's  contem- 
poraries, this  character  was  generally 
thought  to  be  intended  for  the  cele- 
brated Helvetius. 

If  this  will  not  be  sufficient,  may  we  have 
plenty  f)f  Scinfjrados  to  pour  in  plenty  of  cold 
water  till  this  terrible  fermentation  is  over! 

Sterne. 
I  was  obliged  to  send  for  a  physician,  who 
seemed  to  have  been  a  disciple  of  Sangrado  ; 
for  he  scarce  left  a  drop  of  blood  in  mv  body. 

'SmoUett. 

The  results  were  "bad  nights  and  much 
feverish  agitation;  "  and  the  remedies  were  of 
the  usual  desperate  Sa n a rado  order,  —  bleed- 
ing two  days  in  succession,  leaving  him  "  al- 
most dead."  Percy  Fitzgerald. 

Sangreal.     See  St.  Graal. 

Santa  Glaus,  or  Klaus  { Dutch  pron. 
san'ta  klowss).  The  Dutch  name  of 
St.  Nicholas.     See  St.  Nicholas. 

Sappho  of  Toulouse  (saf'fo,  too'- 
looz').  A  title  given  to  Clemence 
Isaure  (b.  10G4),  on  account  of  a 
beautiful  ode  to  Spring  wliich  she 
composed. 

S3,r^as-wa'ti.  { Hindu  Mi/th.)  TheAvife 
of  Brahma,  and  the  goddess  of  poetry, 
painting,  scul])ture,  eloquence,  and 
music.  [Written  also  SerisAvat- 
tee.] 

Sar-ma'ti-a  (sjir-mfi^^hi-a).  The 
country  of  the  Sarmat;p,  a  great 
Slavic  people  of  ancient  times,  dwell- 
ing between  the  Vistula  and  the 
Don.  It  is  often  used  in  modern 
poetiy  as  synonymous  with  Poland. 

Oh,  bloodiest  picture  in  the  book  of  Time! 
Sa7-inatia  fell  unwept,  without  a  crime; 


Found  not  a  generous  friend,  a  pitying  foe, 
Strength  in  her  arms,  nor  mercy  in  Jier  woe. 

Vumpbell. 

Sar-pe'd6n.  [Gr.  Sapn-^Swv.]  ( Gr.  <^ 
Rom.  Mi/th.)  A  sfin  of  Jupiter,  and 
king  of  Lycia,  avIio  went  into  the 
Trojan  war  to  assist  Priam,  and  waa 
slain  by  Patrocius. 

Sa'tan.  [Heb.,  an  adversary;  Lat. 
Soi'd-nas.]  One  of  the  names  of 
the  Devil,  and  that  by  Avhich  in  the 
Bible,  in  poetry,  and  in  popular 
legends,  he  is  often  designated.  Ac- 
cording to  the  Talmud,  he  wa^;  orig- 
inally an  archangel,  but  revolted 
from  God,  together  Avith  one  third 
of  the  host  of  heaven,  on  being  re- 
quired to  boAV  doAvn  and  do  reverence 
to  Adam.  He  was  thereupon  ex- 
pelled from  heaA'cn,  vanquished  in 
battle  by  Michael  and  the  other 
angels  "  Avho  kept  their  lirst  estate," 
and  cast  Avith  all  his  creAv  into  the 
abyss  of  hell.  Satan  is  the  most  con- 
spicuous figure  in  Milton's  sublime 
epic,  the  "  Paradise  Lost,"  and  he 
figures  also  in  the  "  Paradise  Re- 
gained "  of  the  same  author  Those 
media-val  Avriters  Avho  reckoned  nine 
kinds  of  demons,  ])laced  Satan  at  the 
head  of  the  tifth  rank,  Avhich  con- 
sisted of  cozeners,  as  magicians  and 
Avitches.  Wierus  makes  him  leader 
of  the  opposition  in  the  infernal  em- 
pire, of  which  Beelzebub  AA'as  con- 
sidered the  sovereign.  See  Devil, 
The. 

J^!^  "  The  legendary  Satan  is  a  being 
wholly  distinct  from  the  theological  Lu- 
cifer, lie  is  never  ennobled  by  the  pullen 
dignity  of  the  fallen  angel.  No  traces  of 
celestial  origin  are  to  be  discovered  on  his 
brow.  He  is  not  a  rebellious  aeon  who 
was  once  clothed  in  radiance;  but  he  is 
the  fiend,  the  enemy,  evil  from  all  time 
past  in  his  very  es^ence.  foul  and  de- 
graded, cowardly  and  impure:  his  rage 
is  oftenest  impotent,  unless  his  cunning 
can  as.'ji.'^t  his  power.  Equally  dramatic 
and  poetical  is  the  part  allotted  to  l^atan 
ill  tiiose  ancient  romances  of  religion, 
'The  Lives  of  the  Saints."  But  in  the 
conception  of  the  legendary  Satan,  the 
belief  in  his  might  melts  into  the  ideal 
of  his  character.  Amiilst  clouds  of  infer- 
nal vapor  he  develops  his  form,  half  in 
allegory,  and  half  with  spiritual  reality; 
and  his  horns,  his  tail,  his  samer  exes, 
his  claws,  his  taunts,  his  wiles,  his  mai- 


ler For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


SAT 


331 


SAU 


ice,  all  bear  witness  to  the  simtiltaneoua 
yet  contradictory  impressious  to  whicU 
the  hagiologist  is  compelled  to  \ield." 

Fdlgrave. 

/J3^  "  Milton  has  carefully  marked  in 
his  Satan  the  intense  selfishness,  the 
alcohol  of  egotism,  which  would  rather 
reign  in  liell  tliaii  serve  in  heaven.  To 
place  this  lust  of  self  in  opposition  to 
denial  of  self  or  duty,  and  to  show  what 
exertions  it  would  make,  and  what  pains 
endure,  to  accomplish  its  end,  is  Milton's 
particular  object  in  the  character  of  Sa- 
tan. IJut  around  this  character  he  has 
thrown  a  singularity  of  daring,  a  gran- 
deur of  sufferance,  and  a  ruined  splen- 
dor, which  constitute  the  very  height  of 
poetic  sublimity."  Coleridge. 

Satanic  School.  A  name  often  given 
to  a  class  of  writers  whose  produc- 
tions are  thought  to  be  characterized 
by  an  imparience  of  all  restraint, 
a  disgust  at  the  whole  constitution 
of  -ociety,  an  impassioned  and  ex- 
travagant strain  of  sentimentality, 
and  a  presumptuous  scorn  of  all 
moral  rules,  as  well  as  of  the  holiest 
truths  of  religion.  Southey,  in  the 
preface  to  his  '•  Vision  of  Judgment," 
was  the  lirst  to  use  this  degrading 
appellation.  Of  the  writers  who 
have  been  incltided  under  it,  Byron, 
Shelley,  Moore,  Bulwer,  liousseau, 
Victor  Hugo,  Paul  de  Kock,  and 
George  Sand  are  the  most  prominent. 

;Kg=  ''Immoral  writers,  .  .  .  men  of 
diseased  hearts  and  depraved  imagina- 
tions, who,  forming  a  system  of  opinions 
to  suit  their  own  unhappy  course  of  con- 
duct, have  rebelled  ag  linst  the  holiest 
ordinances  of  human  society,  and,  hat- 
ing that  revealed  religion  which,  with  all 
their  efforts  and  bravadoes,  they  are  un- 
able entirely  to  disbelieve,  labor  to  make 
others  as  miserable  as  tliemselves  by  in- 
fecting them  with  a  moral  virus  that  eats 
into  the  soul.  The  school  which  they 
have  set  up  may  properly  be  called  the 
Satanic  Siliool ;  for,  though  their  pro- 
ductions breathe  the  spirit  of  Belial  in 
their  lascivious  parts,  and  the  spirit  of 
Moloch  in  their  loathsome  images  of 
atrocities  and  horrors,  which  they  de- 
light to  represent,  they  are  more  espe- 
cially characterized  by'  a  Satanic  spirit 
of  pride  and  audacious  impiety  which 
still  betravs  thewretcheil  feeling  of  hope- 
lessness wherewith  it  is  allied."    Snuthey. 

This  ["Werthor"]  and  "  Goctz  von  Rer- 
liohin'.;en"  .  .  .  have  produced  incalcnlible 
effects,  —  which  now,  indeed,  however  some 


departing  echo  of  them  may  ling'cr  in  the 
wrecks  of  our  own  Mosstroowr  limitation  of 
Sir  Walter  Scott's  "  Lay  or  the  Last  Min- 
strel"] and  Satanic  Schools,  do  at  length  all 
happily  lie  behind  us.  t'arlyle. 

Sat'urn.  [Lat.  Satumus,  cognate 
with  i^erere,  to  sow,  stttor,  a  planter.] 
((/'/•.(/  Rom.  Jhjt/i.)  The  lirst  king 
of  Latium,  who  came  to  Italy  in  the 
reign  of  Janies.  He  Avas  afterward 
worshiped  as  the  god  of  agriculture, 
and  of  civilization  and  social  order. 
At  a  ver^'  early  period  he  Avas  identi- 
fied with  the  Cronos  of  the  Greeks, 
and  hence  was  said  to  be  the  son  of 
Ccelus  and  Terra,  and  the  husband 
of  Ops,  or  Cybele.  He  was  de- 
throned and  imprisoned  by  his  brother 
Titan,  but  was  set  at  liberty  and  re- 
instated in  his  rights  by  his  son 
Jupiter,  Avho,  however,  afterward  de- 
posed him  and  divided  his  kingdom 
with  Neptune  and  Pluto.  Saturn 
fled  to  Italy,  whei'e  his  reign  was  so 
mild  that  men  called  it  "  the  golden 
age." 

Sat'y-rane,  Sir.  A  knight,  in  Spen- 
ser's "  Faery  Queen,"  who  helps 
Una  escape  from  the  satyrs  who 
rescued  her  from  the  lust  of  Archi^ 
mago. 

And  passion,  erst  imknown,  could  gain 
The  breast  of  blunt  Sir  Satt/rane. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Sat'yrs,  or  Sa'tyrs.  [Gr.  Sarupot, 
Lat.  Salyri.]  {(ir.  if  Rom.  M/jfL) 
Woodland  deities  with  horns,  pointed 
ears,  tails,  and  goat's  feet.  They  are 
described  as  fond  of  wine  and  every 
kind  of  sensual  j)leasure. 

Saun'ders,  Clerk.  The  hero  of  a 
well-known  Scottish  ballad. 

Saun'ders,  Richard.  A  feigned  name 
under  which  Dr.  Franklin,  in  1732, 
commenced  the  publication  of  an 
Almanac,  commonly  called  "  Poor 
Richard's  Almanac,"  of  Avhich  the 
distinguishing  feature  was  a  series  of 
maxims  of  prudence  and  industry 
in  the  form  of  proverbs. 

JR^  "  T  endeavored  to  make  it  both 
entertaining  and  useful.  .  .  .  .\nd.  ob- 
servin?  that  it  was  generallv  read,  scarce 
anv  neighborhood  in  the  province  being 
without  it,  I  con«iilered  it  Ji«  a  proper 
vehicle  for  conveying  instruction  among 
the  copuiion  people,  whobouirht  scarcely 
any  other  books.    I  therefore  filled  all  the 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  liules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SAW 


332 


SCA 


little  spaces  that  occurred  between  the 
remarkable  davs  in  tlie  calendar  with 
proverbial  fcnteiices.  chiefly  such  as  in- 
culcated industry  and  Irugality  as  the 
means  of  procuring  wealtli,  and  thereby 
securing  virtue  ;  it  being  more  diHicult 
for  a  man  in  want  to  act  aiwa^  s  honestly, 
as,  to  use  here  one  of  those  proverbs,  '  It 
is  hard  for  an  empty  sack  to  stand  up- 
right.' These  proverbs,  which  contained 
the  wisdom  of  many  ages  and  nations,  I 
assembled  and  formed  into  a  connected 
discourse  prefixed  to  the  Almanac  of 
1757,  as  the  harangue  of  a  wise  old  man 
to  the  people  attending  an  auction.  The 
bringing  all  these  scattered  counsels  thus 
into  a  focus,  enabled  them  to  make  great- 
er impression.  The  piece,  being  univer- 
sally approved,  was  copied  in  all  the 
newspapers  of  the  American  continent ; 
reprinted  in  Britain,  on  a  large  sheet  of 
paper,  to  be  stuck  up  in  houses  ;  two 
translations  were  made  of  it  in  France, 
and  great  numbers  bought  by  the  clergy 
and  gentry,  to  distribute  gratis  among 
their  poor  parishioners  and  tenants.  In 
Pennsylvania,  as  it  discouraged  u.seless 
expense  in  foreign  superfluities,  some 
thought  it  had  its  share  of  influence  in 
producing  that  growing  i)lenty  of  money 
which  was  observable  for  several  years 
after  its  publication." 

Franklin's  Autobiography. 

Saw'ney.  A  sportive  designation  ap- 
plied by  the  Knf:;lish  to  the  Scotch. 
It  is  a  corruption  of  Sandie,  the  Scot- 
tish abbreviation  of  Altxander. 

I  muse  how  any  man  can  say  that  the 
Scotch,  as  a  people,  are  deficient  in  hmnur! 
"Why,  S(ucn<!i  has  a  humor  of  his  own  so 
etronfr  and  irrepressible  that  it  broke  out  all 
the  stronger  in  sjiite  of  worldly  thrift,  kirk- 
session,  cutt3'-stool,  and  lectures. 

IJartle;/  Coleridge. 

Baxon  Switzerland.  A  name  com- 
monly tjiven  to  the  mountainous  re- 
gion of  the  kingdom  of  Saxony  south- 
east of  Dresden.  Although  the  scen- 
ery is  liighly  picturesque,  its  moun- 
tains are  of  no  great  elevation,  the 
highest  not  exceeding  2000  fuct. 

BTB^  "  To  rendTS  of  a  touring  hnbit, 
this  Saxon  countrv  is  jierhaps  well  known . 
For  the  last  half-century,  it  has  been 
growing  more  and  more  famous,  under 
the  name  of  '  Saxon  Switzerland  '  (  Sar/i- 
sisrhf  Srhivitz).  instead  of  '  Mi>nian 
Highlands'  { Ma /.•>".<;  >i '>v  A  ^  Hnrhlnnd). 
which  it  used  to  he  called.  A  beautiful 
enough  and  extremelv  rugged  countrv  ; 
interesting  to  the  picturesque  mind.  Be- 
gins rising,  in  soft  hills,  on  both  sides  of 
the  Elbe,  a  few  miles  east  of  Dresden,  as 


you  ascend  the  river  ;  till  itri.ses  into  hills 
of  wild  character,  getting  ever  wilder,  and 
riven  into  wondrous  ch.usms  and  preci- 
pices; .  .  .  torn  and  tumbled  into  titoue 
labyrinths,  chasms,  and  winding  rock 
walls,  as  few  regions  i.re.  Grows  pine- 
wood,  to  the  topmost  height ;  pine-trees 
far  aloft  look  quietly  down  upon  you, 
over  sheer  precipices,  on  your  intricate 
path."  Carhjle. 

Sc83v'o-l5.  [Lat.,  diminutive  of  scce- 
va,  the  ieft-handed.]  A  surname  or 
sobriquet  of  Caius  Mucins,  a  young 
Ilomau  patrician,  who  made  his  -way 
into  the  camp  of  King  Porsena  to 
kill  him,  and,  on  his  intention  being 
discovered,  burned  off  his  own  right 
hand,  1o  show  that  he  did  not  fear 
torture  or  deatli. 

Scan''di-na'vi-a.  The  classic  name 
of  the  great  peninsula  of  northern 
Europe,  consisting  of  Sweden  and 
Nonvav ;  often  used  in  modern  poe- 
try. 

Scapino  (ska-pe'no),  o?- Sca'pin  {Fr. 
pron.  sk<ViJ.iii',  G2).  [l-roni  It.  scap^ 
pino,  a  sock,  or  short  stocking.] 

1.  A  mask  on  the  Italian  stage; 
represented  as  a  cunning  and  knavish 
servant  of  Gratiano,  the  loquacious 
and  pedantic  Bolognese  doctor. 

2.  A  valet  in  Moliere's  comedy, 
"  Les  Fourberies  de  Scapin." 

Both  were  angry,  and  a  warbejran.in  which 
Frederick  stooped  to  the  part  of  Harpagon, 
and  ^■oltaire  to  that  of  ,Scapin.         Macuulay. 

Sca^'a-In6uch^  [Originally  the  name 
of  a  celebrated  Italian  comodian.] 
A  militarv  personage  in  the  old  Ital- 
ian comedy,  derived  from  Spain,  and 
dressed  in  the  Spanisli  or  Ilispano- 
Neapolitan  costume.  His  character 
is  that  of  a  great  boaster  and  poltroon, 
and  in  the  end  lie  always  leceives  a 
beating  from  Harlequin.  The  term 
is  used  in  a  general  way  to  stigmatize 
a  buffoon  or  braggadochio. 

!\rnrnrnoiirh  i«  to  hnvp  the  honor  of  thf  d^T, 
and  now  marohe*  to  the  engagremcnt  on  the 
shonl'ler  of  tlio  philosopher.  Dni'len. 

Scarlet.  "Will.  One  of  the  companions 
of  T?obin  Hood,  as  appears  from  an 
old  l)allad. 

"I  have  heard  t  ilk  of  Bohin  Rood, 

Do -TV.  fli'rry,  derry  down; 
And  of  brive  Little  .Tohn. 
Of '^^i^r  Tuck,  -nd   Will  .<^cnrlet, 
Stokesby,  and  M'lid  M-irian. 
Hey  down." 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Froauuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


SCA 


333 


SCO 


Scarlet  "Woman.  In  the  controver- 
sial writings  of  the  Protestants,  a 
coniniou  lU-signation  of  tiie  eliunli 
of  Konie,  intended  to  syndjohze  its 
vices  and  corruptions.  Tlie  alhisiou 
is  to  the  description  contained  in 
Revdittion^  xvii.,  where  it  is  said, 
that  '*  the  woman  ...  is  that  great 
city  which  reigneth  over  the  kings 
of  the  earth." 

Sca€B.e'ldt)ke.  The  name  of  one  of 
I{oi)in  Hood's  followers.  See  Kobin 
Hood. 

Seheherezade,  Queen  (she-he're- 
zud' ;  /'/■.  j}ron.  sha'ha^ra'zad')- 
The  fictitious  relater  of  the  stories 
in  the  "Arabian  ^sights'  Entertain- 
ments." The  sultan  of  the  Indies, 
exasperated  by  the  infidelity  of  his 
wife,  resolves  to  espouse  a  new  sultana 
every  evening,  and  to  strangle  her  in 
the  morning,  to  prevent  the  accidents 
of  the  day.  At  length,  iScheherezadc, 
the  daughter  of  the  viziei".  solicits  the 
hand  of  this  indulgent  bridegroom, 
interrupts  the  progress  of  these  f n  - 
quent  and  sanguinary  nuptials,  and 
saves  her  own  life,  by  the  relation  of 
tales  in  winch  she  awakens  and  sus- 
pends the  sultan's  curiosity  night  af- 
ter night,  till  he  at  length  repents 
of  his  vow,  and  recalls  it. 

Pray  consider,  even  the  memory  of  the  re- 
nowned Seheherezade,  that  empress  of  tale- 
tellers, could  not  preserve  every  ci'cumstancc, 
Sir  \y.  Scott. 

If  we  may  borrow  another  illustration  from 
Queen  Scheheresmie,  we  would  eoniiiaro  the 
writers  of  this  school  to  the  jewelers  who  were 
employed  to  complete  the  unfinished  window 
of  the  palace  of  Aladdin.  Macaulai/. 

Schlemihl,  Peter  (shla'meel,  Gl). 
The  title  of  a  little  work  by  Chamis- 
so  (1781-18o8),  and  the  name  of  its 
hero,  a  man  wdio  sells  his  shadow  to 
an  old  man  in  gray  (the  Devil)  who 
meets  him  jnst  after  he  has  been  dis- 
appointed in  an  application  for  assist- 
ance to  a  nobleman.  The  name  has 
become  a  by-word  for  any  poor,  silly, 
and  nnfortnnate  fellow. 

tScholastic  Doctor.  An  honorary 
title  given  by  his  admirers  to  An- 
selm  of  Laon  (b.  1117),  a  celebrated 
French  theologian. 

Sco'gSn,  John.  A  favorite  buffoon 
of  the  court  of  Edward  IV.     A  col- 


lection of  his  jests  was  published  by 
the  notorious  Dr.  Andrew  Horde. 

Sco'ti-a  (sko^shl-a).  A  modern  Latin 
name  of  Scotland,  often  used  by  the 
poets.  It  was  formerly,  and  for  a 
long  time  (some  say  Irom  the  second 
to  the  tenth  century),  applied  to  Ire- 
land, which  was  sometimes  called 
Siotui  Mfifput,  or  Jfdji.r,  to  distin- 
guish it  fi-om  Scdfia  Xl'mor,  or  Scot- 
land. Old  historians  derive  the  name 
from  that  of  Scota,  wife  of  a  legend- 
ary king  of  Ireland.  Venerable  Bede 
savs  that  Scotland  bore  the  name  of 
Caledonia  until  A.  d.  258,  Avhcn  it 
was  invaded  l)y  a  tribe  from  Ireland, 
and  called  Scotia. 

Scottish  Ilo'garth.  A  title  given  to 
David  Allan  (1744-179G),  Avhose  skill 
as  an  artist  lay  in  depicting  the  famil- 
iar and  the  humorous. 

Scottish  Homer.  A  title  given  by 
his  literary  friends  to  William  Wilkie 
(17-2I-1772),  author  of  "  The  Epigo- 
niad." 

Scottish  Solomon.  James  VI.  of 
Scotland  and  I.  of  England.  See 
Solomon  of  England,  2. 

Scottish  Ten'i-ers.  A  name  given 
to  Sir  David  Wifkie  (1785-1841),  a 
Scottish  painter  who  ranks  among 
the  most  celebrated  masters  of  the 
Dutch  school. 

The  scales  I'ell  from   his  eyes  on   viewing 

the  sketches  of  a  contemporary,  the  Scotfish 

Teniers,  as  Wilkie  has  been  deservedly  styled. 

Sir  U'.  Srott. 

Scottish  The-oc'ri-tus.  A  name 
often  given  to  Allan  Kamsay  (1685- 
1758),  a  popular  and  eminently 
national  Scottish  poet.  His  "  Gentle 
Shepherd  "  is,  perhaps,  the  finest 
dramatic  pastoral  in  the  language. 

Scourers.     See  Tityre  Tus. 

Scourgre  of  God.  [Gothic  Godepeeil, 
Lat.  Flrif/eJIiim  Bei.]  A  title  often 
given  to  Attila,  king  of  the  Huns, 
and  the  most  formidable  of  the  in- 
vaders of  the  Roman  empire.  It  is 
first  found  in  the  legend  of  St.  Loup, 
written  in  the  eighth  or  ninth  cen- 
tiny  bv  a  priest  of  Troves. 

K'^  "  Tie  was  tho  son  of  Mundzuk, 
and,  with  his  hrother  Blcdi.  .  .  .  at- 
tained, in  A.  D.  434,  to  the  sovereignty  of 


•nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SCO 


834 


SEB 


all  ttie  northern  tribes  between  the  fron- 
tier of  G;iul  aud  the  frontier  of  Cliina, 
and  to  tiie  toniinand  of  an  army  ot'5(A>,U00 
barbari.iii.s.  In  tliis  position,  partly  from 
the  real  turroi-  it  inspinvl,  partl_\  from  his 
own  en  leavors  to  invest  hiuiseif,  in  the 
eyes  of  Cnristendoiii,  witU  tue  dreadful 
character  of  t.ie  predicted  Antichrist,  and 
in  tlie  eves  of  Ins  o.vu  countrymen  with 
the  invincible  attril)Utes  attendant  on  the 
possessor  of  the  mir;u;ulous  swurd  of  tne 
Scytliiaii  go  1  of  war.  he  gradually  concen- 
trated on  himself  tne  awe  an  I  fear  of  the 
•wliole  ancient  worid,  whic.i  ultimately 
expressed  itself  by  aflxing  to  his  name 
tlie  well-known  epitnet  of  •  Tne  Scourge 
of  God.'  Tne  word  seems  to  have  been 
used  gener illy  at  tie  time  to  denote  the 
barbarian  invaders  ;  but  it  is  not  directly 
applied  to  Attilt  in  any  author  prior  to 
tue  Hungarian  Chronicles,  which  first  re- 
late tne  story  of  nis  receiving  tne  name 
from  a  hermit  in  Gaul.  The  earliest 
contemporary  approaches  to  it  are  in  a 
p  issage  in  Isidore's  Curonicle  speaking 
of  the  Huns  as  •  Virga  Dei,'  and  in  an 
inscription  at  Aquileia,  written  a  short 
time  before  the  siege  in  451,  in  which 
they  are  described  as  '  imminentia 
pecnntorum  Jia'j;''lla '  [the  threatening 
scourges  of  sinners]."'  A.  P.  Stanley. 
Ihre  (••  Glossarium  Suiogothicum,"  sub 
voce  "Gisl")  suggest.-:  tu.it  fToJegesil  — 
usually  derived  from  Goth,  God.  ixud  gesil, 
rol,  whip,  scourge  — may  probably  come 
from  tile  Gotnic  words  Goth,  God,  and 
gesal,  given,  correspouding  to  the  Gr. 
&e6&0T0i,  Lat.  Dvodatus,  a  common  title 
of  the  kings  and  emperors  who  were  At- 
tila's  contemporaries.  Theepithet  would 
then  convey  no  injurious  meaning. 

Scourge  of  Princes.  An  appellation 
given  to  Pietro  Aretiiio  (  ]4'J2-155!j), 
an  Italian  aathor,  who  distinguished 
himself"  as  a  satirist. 

Scrambling  Committee.  A  name 
given  to  the  "  patriots  "  of  Ireland, 
in  the  Irish  parliament,  Avho  Avere 
received  into  lavor  by  the  Didce  ot" 
Devonshire,  viceroy  in  1755,  and  Avho 
signalized  themselves  for  their  rapac- 
ity in  regard  to  the  division  of  the 
surplus  revenue. 

Scri-ble'rus,  Cornelius  (9).  The 
name  of  the  father  of  Martinus  Scri- 
blerus;  noted  for  his  pedantry  and 
his  oddities  and  absurdities  about  the 
education  of  his  son.     See  Scrible- 

RUS,  M.VUTINUS. 

Scri-ble'rus,  Mar-ti'nus  (0).    A  cel- 


ebrated personage  whcs^e  imaginary 
history  is  related  in  the  satirical 
'*  Memoirs  of  the  llxtraordinary  l.,ite, 
Works,  and  Discoveries  oi  .Martinus 
Scriblerus,"  usually  published  in 
Pope  s  works,  but  chietiy,  if  not 
•Wholly,  written  by  Arbuthnot.  Tha 
design  of  this  worK,  as  stated  by  Pope, 
is  to  ridicule  all  the  lalse  tastes  in 
leaniiug,  under  the  character  of  a 
man  of  capacity  that  had  dipped  into 
every  art  and  science,  but  injudi- 
ciously in  each. 

Being  a  world-schoolmaster  (and,  indeed,  a 
Martinus  Scriolenis,  as  we  here  lind,  more 
ways  than  one),  this  was  not  strange  in  him. 

CarlijU. 

Scrog'§en.  A  poor  hack  author  cele- 
brated by  Goldsmith  in  his  "  Descrip- 
tion of  an  Author's  Bed- chamber." 

Otway  could  still  die  of  hunger,  not  to 
speak  of  innumerable  Scroi/i/inses  iScroij(/ens], 
whom  "  the  Muse  found  stretched  beneath  a 
rug."  Carbjle. 

Scrub.  An  amusing  valet  in  Far- 
quhar's  comedy,  "  The  Beaux'  Strat- 
agem." 

Scyl'la.  [Gr.  lKvkXa.'\  ( Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Myth.)  1.  A  daughter  of  Nisus, 
•who,  for  love  of  Minos,  cut  from  her 
father's  head  a  purple  lock,  on  the 
preservation  of  which  his  life  depend- 
ed, and  was  changed  in  consequence 
into  a  lark. 

2.  A  daughter  of  Phorcus,  changed 
by  Circe,  who  Avas  jealous  of  her,  into 
a  frightful  sea-monster,  and  placed  on 
a  rock  on  the  Italian  coast  opposite 
Charybdis  on  the  coast  of  Sicily. 

Search,  Edward.  A  pseudonym 
under  which  Abraham  Tucker  ( 1705- 
1774),  an  English  metaphysician, 
published  his  "  Light  of  Nature  Pur- 
sued." 

Searcher,  The.  A  surname  or  sobri- 
quet given  to  Dr.  Kobert  Pludd  (1574- 
16-J7),  on  account  of  his  investiga- 
tions in  medicine,  mathematics,  phi- 
losophy, (Sec. 

Searle,  January.  A  pseudonym 
adopted  by  George  Searle  Thillips,  a 
popular  writer  of  the  present  day, 
author  of  "  The  Gvpsies  of  the  Danes' 
Dike." 

Se-bast'ian.  1.  A  character  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Tempest." 


For  the   "  Key  to  the   Scheme  of  FrouuDciatiou,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


SEC 


335 


SEM 


2.   A  character  in   Shakespeare's  , 
"Tweirth  Night." 

Se-ce^'si-a  (se-sesli'l-u).  A  popular 
collective  name  applied  to  the  states 
which  atteinpled  lo  secede  Irom  the 
American  Lnion,  in  JSOO-tJi.  The 
inhabitants  received  the  cant  name 
of  "  rile  Secesli." 

Second  Au-gils'tine.  A  title  given 
to  St.  Tliomas  Aquinas  by  his  admir- 
ing scholars.    See  Angelic  Doctou. 

Sed'ley,  Amelia.  A  marked  ligure  in 
Thackeray's '•  Vanity  Fair;"  an  im- 
personation of  virtue  without  intellect. 
She  is  contrasted  with  Becky  Sharp, 
who  is  an  impersonation  of  intellect 
without  virtue.  The  one  has  no 
head,  the  other  no  heart. 

Seekers.  A  name  originally  given  to 
the  (Quakers,  or  Friends,  from  their 
seeking  the  truth. 

Self-denying  Ordinance.  {J^ng. 
Hist.)  The  name  given  to  an  act  or 
resolution  of  the  Long  Parliament, 
passed  Dec.  9,  1044,  whereby  the 
members  bound  themselves  not  to 
acc;.'pt  certain  executive  otiices,  par- 
ticularly commands  in  the  army.  The 
eftect  of  this  ordinance  was  the  trans- 
ference of  power,  lirst  in  the  army 
and  then  in  the  State,  from  the  I'res- 
byterian  to  the  Independent  party. 

Se'lim.  1.  The  hero  of  Byron's  "  Bride 
of  Abydos;"  brought  up  as  a  son, 
but  treated  with  great  cruelty,  by  his 
uncle,  the  pasha  Giatfer,  who  has 
secretly  destroyed  his  own  brother, 
Abdaliah,  Selim's  father,  by  poison. 
The  discov^ery  of  the  fondness  of  his 
beautiful  daughter,  Zuleika,  for  her 
supposed  brother,  tills  Giatfer  with 
rage  and  jealousy.  He  informs 
Zuleika,  in  the  presence  of  Sclim,  of 
his  intention  to  marry  her  immedi- 
ately to  Usmyn  Bey;  but  she  volun- 
tarily gives  a  promise  to  Selim,  in 
private,  never  to  marry  against  his 
wishes.  At  his  urgent  request,  she 
meets  him  at  night  in  a  favorite 
grotto  in  the  harem  gardens.  lie 
appears,  not  as  a  pasha's  son,  but  as 
the  chief  of  a  band  of  j)irates,  informs 
her  that  he  is  not  her  brother,  declares 
his  love,  and  proposes  that  she  should 
fly  with  him,  and  become  the  com- 


panion of  his  adventures  and  toils, 
the  sliarer  of  his  joys  and  tnumplis, 
when  distant  voices  and  Hashing 
torches  announce  betrayal  and  pur- 
suit. Selim  is  shot  wliile  endeavor- 
ing to  join  las  ibllowers  un  the  beacli ; 
but  he  dies  not  unrevenged,  for  Zu- 
leika cannot  survive  her  lover,  and 
Giatl'er  is  left  in  childless  desolation. 

2.  The  hero  of  Moore's  "  Lalla 
Rookh."     See  Lalla  Kookh. 

Sem'e-le.  [Gr.  SeMeA,,.]  ( Gr.  cj-  Rom. 
M^tli.)  A  daughter  of  Cadmus  and 
Thebe,  and  mother  of  Bacchus  by 
Jupiter. 

Se-mir'a-mis.  [Gr.  SefxipaMi?-]  A 
celebrated  (jueen  of  Assyria,  wife  and 
successor  of  Ninus.  She  built  the 
walls  of  Babylon,  Avas  slain  by  her 
own  son,  Ninyas,  and  Avas  turned,  ac- 
cording to  the  jiopular  belief,  into  a 
pigeon. 

Se-mlr'a-mis  of  the  North.  1.  A 
name  otten  given  to  Margaret  (1353- 
1412),  daughter  of  Waldemar  III., 
king  of  Denmark,  and  a  most  politic 
and  able  ruler.  By  the  death  of  her 
father  and  of  her  son,  his  successor, 
she  became  queen  of  Denmark ;  and, 
by  the  death  of  her  husband, Ilaco 
Vm.,  king  of  Norway,  she  succeeded 
to  the  throne  of  that  kingdom  also. 
She  then  turned  her  arms  against 
Albert,  king  of  Sweden,  who  was  un- 
popular Avith  his  subjects,  defeated 
him,  and  made  him  prisoner,  upon 
Avhich  she  Avas  acknowledged  queen 
of  Sweden.  She  is  said  to  haA'e  pos- 
sessed considerable  beauty  of  person, 
and  unusual  powers  of  fascination. 

From  Scotland  it  [the  name  jNIargaret]  went 
to  Norway  with  the  daughter  of  Alexander 
III.,  whose  bridal  cost  the  life  of  Sir  Patriclc 
Spens;  and  it  .  .  .  remained  in  Scandinavia 
to  be  tlie  dreaded  niuwa  oi  t\\Q  SemiramU  of 
the  North,  and  was  taken  as  the  equivalent  of 
Astrid  and  Grjotgard.  Yonje. 

2.  A  title  given  to  Catharine  II., 
empress  of  Russia  (172tJ-17'JG),  a 
powerful  and  ambitious  sovereign, 
Avho  administered  Avith  great  energy 
the  internal  affairs  of  the  empire, 
Avhile  carrying  on  extensive  and  im- 
portant Avars  Avith  other  nations,  llcr 
sensuality  AV'as  extreme,  and  she 
lived  a  life  of  open  and  unrestrained 
vice. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which,  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


SEN 


336 


SEV 


Sentry,  Captain.  One  of  the  mem- 
bers ot  tlie  lictitious  elub  under 
■whose  auspices  and  superintendence 
the  ■*  Speciatur"  was  prulessedly  is- 
sued. 

September  Massacre.  (/>.  Ilisl.) 
An  indisciiniinatc  shuiyhter  of  loyal- 
ists conlincd  in  the  Abbaye  and  otlier 
prisons,  which  took  place  in  Paris, 
iSeptcniber  2-b,  17li2,  on  receipt  of  the 
news  of  the  capture  of  Verdun.  The 
number  of  victims  was  not  less  than 
1200,  and  by  some  is  placed  as  high 
as  4000. 

fleraphic  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Se- 
rnp/ucus.\  An  appellation  given  to 
St.  Bonaventura  (1-J-'1-1274),  an 
Italian  sclnjlastic  theologian  of  the 
order  of  Franciscans,  and  one  of  the 
most  eminent  of  Konian  Catholic  di- 
vines. He  was  so  called  on  account 
of  the  religious  fervor  of  his  style. 
Dante  places  him  among  the  saints 
in  his  ''  Paradiso,"'  and,  in  3587,  he 
was  ranked  by  Sixtus  V.  as  the  sixth 
of  the  great  doctors  of  the  Church. 
His  own  order  is  as  proud  of  him  as 
the  Dominicans  are  of  Thomas  Aqui- 
nas. 

What  do  I  care  for  the  Doctor  Seraphic, 
"With  all  his  wordy  clialfer  and  traffic  i* 

Lorififellow. 

Seraptiic  Saint.  An  appellation  be- 
stinved  Upon  St.  Francis  d'Assisi 
(1182-1220),  founder  of  the  order  of 
the  1  ranci.^caus.  "  Of  all  the  saints," 
?ays  Dean  Milman,  ''  St.  Francis  was 
the  most  blameless  and  gentle." 

Se-ra'piS.  [Gr.      SapaTri?,      2epa7rt?.] 

(Mi/t/i.)  An  Egyptian  deity,  after- 
ward worshiped  also  in  Greece  and 
Pome;  at  lirst  a  symbol  of  the  Nile, 
and  so  of  fertility ;  later,  an  infernal 
god. 

Ser-ges'tus.  One  of  the  companions 
of  ^Eneas;  the  re])uted  progenitor  of 
the  Sergian  family  at  Rome.  He 
took  part  in  the  naval  games  at  Drep- 
anum,  in  Sicily,  on  the  occasion  of 
the  anniversary  of  Anchises's  death, 
and  comnumded  the  "'Centaur,"  but 
ran  upon  tlie  rocks,  and  with  diffi- 
culty preserved  the  vessel  and  crew. 

Servant  of  the  Servants  of  God. 
[Lat.  Sei^vus  Sei'vui'uin  DtiJ\  A  style 


or  appellation  assumed  by  Pope  Greg, 
ory  1.  (544-004)  in  his  letters,  and 
retained  by  his  successors.  Hy  "  the 
servants  of  God,"  tlie  bishops  are  in- 
tended. 

Set'e-bos.  A  deity  mentioned  in 
Shakespeare's  "Tempest"  as  wor- 
shiped by  Sycorax,  the  mother  of 
Caliban. 

Ilis  art  is  of  such  power, 
It  would  control  my  dam's  god  Setebos. 

Shak, 
M£^  Shakespeare  did  not  invent  this 
false  god ;  he  had  found  him  in  the 
travels  of  liis  time,  in  which  he  is  men- 
tioned as  a  deity  of  the  Patagonians,  — 
an  evidence,  in  addition  to  others,  that 
Shakespeare  had  been  reading  hooks  of 
American  discovery  before  he  wrote  "  The 
Tern  pest.  ■■ 

The  giants,  when  thev  found  themselvet 
fettered,  roared  like  bulls,  and  cried  upon 
Setebos  to  help  them. 

Eden's  Hist,  of  Travayle. 

Seven  against  Thebes.  ( Gr.  ^ 
lioia.  Mijth.)  The  leaders  of  an  ex- 
pedition designed  to  place  Polynices 
on  the  throne  of  Thebes,  from  Avhich 
he  had  been  driven  by  his  brother 
Eteocles.  (See  Eteocles.)  Their 
names  Avere  Adrastus,  Amphiaraus, 
Capaneus,  Hippomedon  (Argives); 
l*arthenopa?us  (an  Arcadian);  Poly- 
nices (a  Theban);  Tydeus  (an  ^Eo- 
lian).  The  expedition  was  a  failure, 
as  the  chiefs  were  aiTogant  and 
boastful,  and  despised  signs  sent  by 
the  gods;  but  a  second  expedition, 
conducted  by  their  more  pious  sons, 
—  the  t'pifjani,  —  who  acted  in  obe- 
dience to  the  will  of  heaven,  "waa 
crowned  Avith  success.  One  of  the 
noblest  dramas  of^Eschylus  is  enti- 
tled "  The  Seven  against  Thebes." 

Seven  Champions  of  Christen- 
dom. St.  George,  the  patron  i-aint 
of  England;  St.  Denis,  of  France; 
St.  James,  of  Spain ;  St.  Anthony, 
of  Italv;  St.  Andrew,  of  Scotland; 
St.  Patrick,  of  Ireland;  and  St.  Da- 
A-id,  of  ^^'ales.  They  are  often  al- 
luded to  by  old  Avriters.  "  The  Fa- 
mous History  of  the  Seven  Champi- 
ons of  Christendom  "  is  the  Avork  of 
Ilichard  .Johnson,  a  ballad-maker  of 
some  note  at  the  end  of  the  sixteenth 
and  the  beginning  of  the  seA-enteenth 
centuries. 


CS-  For  the    "'Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying   £xplanation% 


SEV 


337 


SEV 


Seven  Cities,  Island  of.  See  Isl- 
and (^)F  TiiK  JSevkn  Cities. 

Seven  -  hilled  City.  One  of  the 
names  by  ^s'llicll  lioine  has  for  many 
ages  bei'U  (U'sigiuited.  It  was  origi- 
nallv  built  u]Hm  sisven  hills,  several  (if 
which  ha\'(',  in  course  of  time,  so  far 
disappeared  that  they  are  now  hardly 
recoi^nizable. 

Seven  Sages.     1.  See   Seven  Wise 

Men    of    CrltEECE. 

2.  Characters  in  an  ancient  English 
metrical  romance  having"  this  appel- 
lation for  its  title. 

fifjjr'  A  young  lloman  prince  having  ro- 
jecte.l  iinpropor  a<lvance.s  made  by  lii.s 
step -mot, lor,  the  latter  falsely  aoeuse-i 
him  of  having  attempted  to  offer  her 
violence,  anil  persuades  her  husband  to 
order  his  deitli;  but  the  prince's  in- 
structors, the  Seven  Sages,  preserve  his 
life  by  each  telling  the  emperor,  his  fa- 
ther, on  successive  days,  a  story  which  as 
often  induces  him  to  delay  the  execu- 
tion, though  each  night  the  queen  coun- 
teracts the  effect  they  have  produced  by 
telling  a  story  which  changes  her  hus- 
band's mind.  At  the  end  of  seven  days, 
the  prince,  who  has  all  the  wiile  ab- 
stained from  speaking,  in  obedience  to 
inform  ition  obtained  by  consulting  the 
stirs,  tells  a  story  which  leads  his  fatlier 
to  have  the  queen  brought  to  judgment 
and  put  to  de:ith.  The  romance  of  the 
Seven  Sages  is  of  great  antiquity,  and 
probably  of  Indian  origin.  Versions 
exist  in  Aribic,  Hebrew,  Greek,  Latin, 
French.  German,  and  other  languages. 
In  Knglish  there  are  two  metrical  ver- 
sions, and  also  one  in  the  humble  form 
of  a  chap-book,  under  the  title  of  "The 
Seven  Wise  Masters." 

Seven  Sleepers.  According  to  a 
very  widely  diffused  legend  of  early 
Christianity,  seven  noble  youths  of 
Ephesus,  in  the  time  of  the  Decian 
persecution,  who,  having  tied  to  a 
certain  cavern  for  refuge,  and  having 
been  pursued,  discovered,  and  walled 
in  for  a  cruel  death,  were  made  to 
fall  asleep,  and  in  that  state  were  mi- 
raculously kept  for  almost  two  centu- 
ries. Their  names  are  traditionally 
said  to  have  been  Maximian,  jMalchus, 
Martinian,  Denis,  John,  Serapion,  and 
Constantine.  Their  relics  are  said  to 
have  been  conveyed  to  ^Marseilles  in 
a   large   stone  coffin,  which   is   still 


show^n  there  in  St.  Victor's  church. 
The  churcli  has  canonized  the  Seven 
Sleepers,  and  has  consecrated  the 
'2rth  of  June  to  their  memory.  The 
Koran  relates  the  tale  of  the  Seven 
Sleepers,  —  deriving  it  probably  from 
the  same  source  as  the  Christian  le- 
gend, —  and  declares  that  out  of  re- 
spect for  them  the  sun  altered  his 
course  twice  a  day  that  he  might 
shine  into  the  cavern. 

13®="  "  By  the  Seven  Sleepers  are  com- 
monly understood  seven  Christians  of 
the  third  century  of  our  era  who  were 
put  to  death  for  the  faith  of  .lesus  Christ. 
The  event  happened  at  Ephesus,  in  Asia 
Elinor,  in  the  reign  of  the  emperor  De- 
cius.  .  .  .  More  than  two  centuries  after, 
.  .  .  their  bodies  having  been  found  in  a 
cavern  where  they  had  been  inclosed, 
they  were  taken  out,  and  exposed  to  the 
veneration  of  the  f  lithfnl.  The  legend, 
in  speaking  of  their  death,  said,  follow- 
ing the  usual  form,  that  they  had  fallen 
asleep  in  the  Lord.  The  vulgar  took  oc- 
ca^^ion  thence  to  sav  that  these  holy  mar- 
tyrs were  not  dead ;  that  they  had  been 
hid  in  the  cavern,  where  they  had  fallen 
asleep  ;  and  that  they  at  last  awoke,  to 
the  great  astonishment  of  the  spectators. 
Such  is  the  origin  of  the  legend  of  the 
Seven  Sleepers.  At  Ephesus,  the  spot  is 
still  shown  where  this  pretended  miracle 
took  place.  As  a  dog  liad  accompanied 
these  seven  martyrs  into  their  retreat, 
he  has  been  made  to  share  the  celebrity 
of  his  masters,  anil  is  fabled  to  have  re- 
mained standing  all  the  time  they  slept, 
without  eating  or  drinking,  being  whol- 
ly occupied  with  guarding  their  persons. 
The  Persians  celebrate  annually  the  feast 
of  the  Seven  Sleepers,  and  their  names 
are  regarded  as  powerful  talismans 
against  the  decrees  of  fate.  Their  dog 
has  not  been  foi-gotten;  and,  to  recom- 
pense him  for  his  zeal,  he  has  been  in- 
trusted with  the  care  of  letters  missive 
and  correspondences,  and  admitted  to 
Paradise  with  the  ram  which  Aliraham 
sacrificed  in  place  of  his  sou,  with  the 
ass  of  Balaam,  with  the  ass  upon  which 
our  Lord  entered  Jerusalem  upon  tho 
Day  of  Palms,  and  with  the  mare  upon 
which  Mohammed  mounted  miraculously 
to  heaven."  Reinaud. 

Tressilian's  fellow  hath  ever  averred,  that 
to  w;ike  the  earl  were  death,  and  Masters 
would  wake  the  Seven  Sleepers  themselves,  if 
lie  thought  they  blept  not  by  regular  ordinance 
of  medicine.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Here,  however,  we  gladly  recall  to  mind 
that  once  we  saw  him  laugh;  once  only:  per- 
haps it  was  the  first  and  last  time  in  His  life; 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxiii- 
22 


SEV 


338 


SHA 


but  then  such  a  pbal  of  laughter,  — enough  to 
have  uwukuiitid  the  Sereu  .S/cc/c/s .'  Curiyle. 
"  Wliot'ver  it  is,  lia.s  knocked  tliree  tiiiit's, 
and  oaeli  one  loud  enougli  to  wuke  tlie"  —  Jie 
had  sucli  u  rejjuj;nance  to  tlie  idea  of  waking 
tlie  dead,  tliat  lie  stopped  even  then,  with  the 
■words  u|)c)n  his  tonL'ue,  and  said,  instead  — 
*'  tile  ^Vtcyi  Sltjcpcrs.'  Jjiakctts. 

Seven  "Wise  Masters.  See  Seven 
Sages,  •!. 

I  think  he  [Don  Quixote]  is  one  of  the 
Seven  Wise  Masters.  1  thought  )ie  knew  noth- 
ing but  his  knifiht-errautry,  but  now  I  see  the 
devil  a  tiling  can  escape  him:  he  has  an  oar  in 
every  man's  boat,  anil  a  hnger  in  every  man's 
pie.  Cercaiites,  Traiis. 

Seven  "Wise  Men  of  Greece.  Fa- 
mous Greeks  of  tlie  sixth  century  u. 
c,  (listiii<;uislif'(l  lor  their  practical 
sajj^acity  and  their  wise  maxims  or 
principles  of  life-  Their  names  are 
variously  j^iven  ;  but  those  most  gen- 
erally admitted  to  the  honor  are  So- 
lon, Chilo,  Pittficus,  Bias,  Periander 
(in  place  of  whom  some  give  I']p- 
imenides),  Cleobulus,  and  Thales. 
They  were  the  authors  of  the  cele- 
brated mottoes  inscribed  in  later  da\'s 
in  the  Delphian  temple:  "  Know  thy- 
self" (Solon);  "Consider  the  end" 
{Ch'do);  ''Know  thy  opportunity" 
(Pittacus)',  "Most  men  are  bad" 
(Bl(ts);  "Nothing  is  impossible  to 
industry  "  (Pe/•^VfWer);  "Avoid  ex- 
cess "  (  Cleobulus) ;  "  Suretyship  is  the 
precursor  of  ruin"  (  Thalts). 

Seven  "Wonders  of  the  "World.  A 
name  given  to  seven  very  remark- 
able objects  of  the  ancient  world, 
which  have  been  variously  enumer- 
ated. The  following  classification  is 
the  one  most  generally  received:  1. 
The  Pyramid's  of  Egypt;  2.  The 
Pharos  of  Alexandria;  S.  The  walls 
and  hanging  gardens  of  Balndon ;  4. 
The  temple  of  Diana  at  Ephcsus;  5. 
The  statue  of  Jupiter  by  Phidias,  at 
Olympia;  G.  The  Mausoleum  erected 
by  Artemisia,  at  Halicarnassus;  7. 
The  Colossus  of  Rhodes. 

Seven  "Tears'  "War.  (  Ger.  Tlist.)  A 
war  carried  on  by  two  alliances, 
headed  respectively  by  Austria  and 
Prussia,  which  commenced  in  175G, 
and  was  brought  to  a  close  —  with- 
out material  advantages  gained  by 
any  party  —  by  the  peace  of  IIu- 
bertsburg,  Nov.  15,  1763.  It  is  re- 
markable for  the  extraordinarA"-  cam- 


paigns of  Frederick  the  Great,  the 
Prussian  king. 

Seyd.  A  tierce  and  revengeful  pasha 
in  liyron's  poem  of  "The  Corsair." 
See  Gli.nauj:,  1. 

But  a  scene  ensued  like  that  in  the  hall  of 
Seyd.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Sey'ton  (-tn).  An  officer  attending 
Macbeth,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy 
of  this  name. 

Sganarelle  (sga'nS'rel').  1,  The  hero 
of  Moliere"s  comedy,  "  Le  Mariage 
Force."  He  is  represented  as  a  hu- 
morist of  titty -three  or  tour,  who, 
having  a  mind  to  marry  a  fashionable 
young  woman,  but  feeling  some  in- 
stinctive doubts  and  scruples,  con- 
sults several  of  his  friends  upon  this 
momentous  question,  lieceiving  no 
satisfactory  counsel,  and  not  much 
pleased  with  the  proceedings  of  his 
bride  elect,  he  at  last  determines  to 
give  up  his  engagement,  but  is  cud- 
geled into  compliance  by  the  brother 
of  his  intended. 

;K^  The  plot  of  this  play  is  founded 
on  an  adventure  of  the  Count  de  Gram- 
niont,  who,  when  leaving  England,  waa 
followed  by  the  brothers  of  hi  belle  Ilnm- 
ilton,  who,  with  their  hands  on  the  pom- 
mels of  their  swords,  asked  him  if  he 
had  not  left  something  behind.  '•  True," 
said  the  count,  '•  1  forgot  to  marry  your 
sister  ;  "  and  instantly  went  back  to  re- 
pair his  lap:se  of  memory  by  making  her 
Countess  de  Gramniout. 

2.  A  simple-minded  valet  in  Mo- 
liere's  "  Festin  de  Pierre,"  who  is 
ever  halting  between  the  fear  of  be- 
ing drubl)e(l  by  his  master,  Don  Juan, 
and  the  far  deeper  horror  of  abetting 
or  witnessing  his  crimes.     See  Dox 

J  LAX. 

3.  The  same  name  occurs  in  sev- 
eral of  ]\Ioliere's  other  plays  ("Le 
Cocu  Imaginaire,"  "  L'Ecole  des 
Maris,'"  ike),  and  is  usually  assigned 
to  a  blutf,  willful,  and  domineering 
character. 

De  Pradt  answered  by  saying  that  .  .  .  the 
country  was  in  the  situation  of  the  wife  of 
Sg'tnarelli'  in  the  f;iree,  who  quarreled  with  a 
stranger  fur  interfering  with  her  husband 
when  he  was  beating  her.  Sir  fV.  Scott. 

Shac'a-bac.     See  Barmecide,  The. 

Sharton,  Sir  Pier'cie  (2).    A  fantas- 
tical character  in  Sir  Walter  Scott'd 


I^T"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


SHA 


339 


SHA 


"Monastery;"  diawn  in  imitation 
of  the  pedantic  courtiers  ot  Queen 
Klizabetti  s  reign,  and  ujade  to  taliv 
in  tlie  unnatural  and  liigli-tluwn  style 
■which  Lyly  rendered  la.'^hionabh;  by 
his  '•  Kuphues.'  lie  turns  out  to  be 
graud.son  of  one  Overstitch,  a  tailor. 

His  [Johnson's]  speech,  like  Sir  Piercie 
Sh<ifioi)\<  eiiphiiistic  eloquence,  bewrayed  him 
under  evci-y  disguise.  Mucuulay. 

Shakespeare  of  Divines.  An  appel- 
lation sometinics  given  to  Jeremy 
Taylor  (1613-1(5(57),  one  of  the  great- 
est ornaments  of  the  English  pulpit. 
His  devotional  Avritings  are  charac- 
terized by  a  fervid  eloquence  and  an 
affluence  and  aptness  of  illustration 
that  entitle  them  to  the  praise  of 
belonging  to  the  loftiest  and  most 
sacred  description  of  poetry,  *'  of 
Avhich,"  as  Heber  remarks,  "they 
only  Avant  ■what  they  cannot  be  said 
to  need,  the  name  and  the  metrical 
arrangement." 

Old  Chrysostom,  best  Augustine, 
And  he  who  blent  both  in  his  line. 
The  younger  Golden  Lips  or  mines, 
Taylor,  the  iShakespearc  of  Divines. 

Emerson. 

Shallow.  A  country  justice,  in  >Shakc- 
^peare's  '"  ^lerry  Wives  of  NN'indsor," 
and  in  the  Second  Tart  of  "■  King 
Henry  IV. ; "  a  braggart,  a  liar,  a 
rogue,  and  a  blockhead.  It  is  sup- 
posed that  this  character  ■was  in- 
tended as  a  satirical  portrait  of  Sir 
Thomas  Lucy,  of  Charlecote,  near 
Stratford-upon-Avon,  Avho  is  said  to 
have  prosecuted  Shakespeare  for  a 
youthful  misdemeanor. 

A  nurse  of  this  century  is  as  wise  as  a  justice 
of  the  quorum  and  cust-alorum  in  Shallow's 
time.  Macuulaij. 

Shan'dy,  Captaiu.  The  uncle  of 
Tristram  Shandy,  in  Sterne's  novel 
of  this  name ;  the  same  as  Uncle 
Toby.     See  Uxclk  Toby. 

TVhen  IMr.  Southey  takes  tip  his  pen,  he 
changes  his  nature  as  much  as  Captain  S/ianfhf 
■when  he  girt  on  his  sword.  JJucauiaij. 

Shan'dy,  Dinah.   See  Dinah,  Aunt. 

Shan'd^,  Mrs.  EUzabeth.  The 
mother  of  Tristram  Shandy,  in 
Sterne's  novel  of  this  name.  She  is 
the  ideal  of  nonentity,  a  character 
profoundly  individual  from  its  veiy 
absence  of  individualitv. 


Shan'dj^,  Tris'tram.  The  nominal 
hero  of  Sterne's  novel,  "  The  Life 
and  Opinions  of  Tristram  Shandy, 
Gent." 

The  author  proceeds,  with  the  most  un- 
feeling prolixity,  to  give  a  minute  detail  of 
the  civil  and  common  law,  otthe  feudal  insti- 
tutions, of  the  architecture  of  churches  ond 
castlcs,of  sculpture  and  painting,  of  minstrels, 
of  players,  of  parish  clerks,  &c.,  &c.;  while 
poor  Chaucer,  like  Tristram  tihundy,  can 
hardly  be  said  to  be  fairly  born,  iilthough  his 
life  has  attained  tlic  fcizc  of  half  a  volume. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Shan'd;^,   "Walter.      The    name    of 

Tristram  Shandy's  father,  in  Sterne's 
novel  entitled  "■  The  Lile  and  Opin- 
ions of  Tristram  Shandy,  Gent."  By 
reading  antiquated  books  he  has  got 
his  head  tilled  -with  absurd  or  idle 
iancies  and  theories;  but  all  his  no- 
tions are  thwarted,  and  the  exact 
opposite  of  what  he  wishes  takes 
place.  He  believes  in  the  virtue  of 
a  substantial  nose,  and  his  son's  is 
crushed  by  iJie  accoucheur  Avho  at- 
tends upon  his  Avife.  A  leading  arti- 
cle of  his  creed  is  that  the  characters 
of  mankind  are  greatly  influenced  by 
their  Christian  names.  Trismegistus 
he  thinks  the  most  propitious  name 
in  the  world,  and  Tristram  the  A'ery 
Avorst;  yet  his  son  accidentally  gets 
christened  Tristram. 

^^  "He  [Sterne]  .  .  .  supposed  in 
BIr.  Sha  dy  a  m.an  of  an  active  and  met- 
r.pliysical,  but  at  the  same  time  a  whim- 
sical, cast  of  mind,  Avhoin  too  much  and 
too  miscellaneous  learning  had  brought 
within  a  step  or  two  of  madness,  and  who 
acted,  in  the  ordinary  affnirs  of  life,  upon 
the  absurd  theories  adopted  by  the  ped- 
ants of  past  ages.  He  is  moj-t  admirably 
contrasted  with  his  Avife,  well  described 
as  a  good  lady  of  ih&  poco-curaiitf  school, 
Avho  neitlier  obstructed  the  progress  of 
her  liusband's  hobby-horse, —  to  use  j» 
phrase  Avhich  Sterne  has  rendered  clas- 
sical,—  nor  could  be  prevailed  upon  to 
spare  him  the  least  admiration  for  the 
grace  and  dexterity  with  which  he  man- 
aged it."'  Sir  W.  Scott. 

The  project  of  mending  a  bad  world,  by 
teaching  people  to  give  new  names  to  old 
things,  reminds  us  of  Walter  Snandj/'s  schema 
for  compensatingthe  loss  of  his  son's  nose  by 
christening  him  Trismegistus.  JJacuulay. 

Foolish  enough,  too,  iras  the  college  tutor's 
surpiisent  It'alter  S/ianilif,  bow,  though  un- 
read in  Aristotle,  he  could  nevertheless  argue, 
and,  not  knowing  the  name  of  any  dialectic 
tool,  handled  them  all  to  perfection.     Varlylc, 


ud  for  the  Bemortu  and  Rules  to  which  the  numberft  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xlv-xxxil* 


SHA 


340 


SIC 


Sharp,  Becky.  A  female  sharper, 
.  wfio  is  a  prominent  character  in 
Thackeray's  "  Vanity  Fair;  "  distin- 
guished by  her  intriguing  disposition, 
her  selrisliness,  goud-humor,  energy, 
perseverance,  cleverness,  and  utter 
want  of  heart  and  moral  principle. 
See  Sedley,  Amelia. 

With  Bcckii  Shnrj),  -we  think  we  could  be 
good,  if  we  had  live  thousand  a  j'car.     Buyne. 

Shepherd  Kings.  [Called  also  Uyk- 
slios,  or  fli/ksos.]  A  name  often  given 
to  a  tribe  of  Arabian  or  Phcenician 
shepherds  wlio  are  said  to  have  in- 
vaded Lower  Ki:ypt  about  two  thou- 
sand years  b.  c,  and  to  have  over- 
thrown the  reigning  dynasty.  They 
maintained  their  authority,  according 
to  some  accounts,  about  two  hundred 
and  sixty  years,  when  they  were  ex- 
pelled by  the  Egyptian  rulers  of  Up- 
per Egy])t.  Some  writers,  however, 
wholly  deny  the  existence  of  any 
such  race  of  kings;  others  hold  that 
the  captive  .Jews,  the,  descendants  of 
Jacob,  are  intended  by  this  designa- 
tion; and  various  other  theories  liave 
been  advanced  in  explanation  of  this 
vexed  question. 

Shepherd  Lord.  Lord  Henry  Clif- 
ford (d.  1543),  of  the  English  house 
of  Lancaster,  and  the  hero  of  much 
legendary  narration.  To  save  him 
from  the  vengeance  of  the  victorious 
York  party,  his  mother  put  him  in 
charge  of  a  shepherd,  to  be  brought 
up  as  one  of  his  own  children.  Af- 
terward, on  the  accession  of  Henry 
VH.  (being  then  at  the  age  of  thirty- 
one  years),  he  was  restored  to  his 
birthright  and  possessions.  In  the 
"  White  Doe  of  Rylstone,"  Words- 
worth speaks  of 

"  The  gracious  fairy 
Who  loved  the  She/ihrnl  Lord  to  meet 
In  his  wanderings  solitary." 

Shepherd  of  Banbury.  The  osten- 
sil)le  author  of  a  work  entitled  "  The 
Shepherd  of  Banbury's  Rules  to  judge 
of  the  Changes  of  Weather,  ground- 
ed on  Fortv  Years'  Experience,  &:c. 
By  .Tohn  Claridge,  Shepherd,"  first 
pul>lished  in  1744,  and  reprinted  in 
1827.  It  is  a  work  «>f  great  p(i))ular- 
ity  among  the  English  poor,  and  is 
attributed  to  Dr.  John  Campbell,  au- 


thor of  "  A  Political  Survey  of  Brit- 
ain." It  is  UKjstly  a  compilatiim 
from  "A  Rational  Survey  of  the 
Weather,"  by  .lohn  Pointer,  rector 
of  .Shipton  in  Northamptonshire. 

Shepherd  of  Salisbury  Plain  (sol//- 
bur-i).  The  hero  of  a  very  popular 
tract  having  this  name  for  its  title, 
and  written  by  Mrs.  Hannah  More; 
distinguished  ti)r  his  homely  wisdom 
and  simple  Christian  piety.  The  orig- 
inal of  this  character  was  one  David 
Saunders,  who,  with  his  father,  had 
kept  sheep  upon  Salisbury  Plain  for 
a  hundred  years. 

Shepherd  of  the  Ocean.  A  name 
given  by  Spenser,  in  his  poem,  "  Co- 
lin Clout  's  come  Home  again,"  to 
his  friend  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  cele- 
brated tor  his  maritime  expeditions 
and  discoveries. 

Shipton,  Mother.  See  Mother 
Shipton. 

Short-lived  Administration.  ( Enr/. 
Jlist.)  A  name  popularly  given  to 
an  administration  formed  by  the 
Hon.  William  Pulteney,  which  ex- 
pired on  the  12th  of  Feliruary,  174G, 
two  days  after  its  partial  formation. 
[Called  also,  in  derision,  Lcm^-lictd 
Adiiiinistratlun.^ 

ShuflQebottom,  Abel.  A  pseudonym 
of  Robert  Southey  (1774-1 843).  un- 
der Avhich  he  Avrote  several  amatory 
sonnets  and  elegies. 

Shylock.  A  sordid,  avaricious,  re- 
vengeful Jew,  in  Siiakespeare's '"  Mer- 
chant of  Venice."     See  Portia. 

Of  ooiirse,  not  Louis  XVI.  alone,  but  all 
monarchs,  might  be  justly  put  to  death  in 
Carnot's  e^;tinlation  ;  liecause  they  are  natural- 
ly the  ob.ieets  of  fear  to  their  snbiecLs:  because 
we  hate  those  we  fear;  and  because,  according 
to  the  kindred  authority  of  Shiilock,  no  maa 
hates  the  thing  he  would  not  kill. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Sicilian  Vespers.  {Hist.)  A  name 
given  to  a  memorable  massacre  of 
the  French  which  beuan  at  Paler- 
mo, in  Sicily,  INIarch  .'50,  1282,  at  the 
hour  of  vespers  on  Easter  Monday, 
and  extended  throughout  the  island. 
Sicily  was  at  this  time  subject  to 
Charles  of  Anjou,  whose  soldiers  had 
made  themselves  hatefid  to  the  Sicil- 
ians.    The  result  of  the  insurrection 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Proaunciation,"   with  the  accompanying  ExplanatiouK, 


SIC 


811 


SIF 


was,  that  the  authority  of  Charles 
was  completely  overthrown,  and  tlie 
islanders  placed  themselves  under  the 
protection  of  the  kin<j;  of  Aragon. 

Sick  Man  of  the  East.  A  name 
popularly  ji;iven  to  tiie  Turkish  em- 
pire, which,  under  Soliman  the  Mai^- 
uilicent  (1495- 15(j()),  reached  the 
summit  of  Its  prosperity,  and  has 
ever  since  steadily  declined.  At  the 
present  day,  Turkey  is  mainly  in- 
debted for  its  existence  to  the  sup- 
port of  foreign  powers. 

fl£g="  The  expression.  "  Sick  Man,"  as 
applied  tn  Turkey,  originated  with  the 
euiperdr  Nicholas  of  Russia.  lie  is  rep- 
resented to  have  said  to  8ir  George  Sey- 
mour, the  IJritish  charge  d'affaires,  in  a 
conversation  at  St.  Petersburg,  on  the 
11th  of  January,  1844,  ''  We  have  on  our 
hands  a  sick  man,  a  very  sick  man.  It 
would  be  a  great  misfortune,  T  tell  you 
frankly,  if.  one  of  these  days,  he  should 
happen  to  die  before  the  necessary  ar- 
rangements were  all  made.  But  this  is 
not  the  time  to  speak  to  you  of  that."' 
The  conversation  then  broke  off,  but  was 
renewed  on  the  14th  of  the  same  month, 
■when  the  emperor  observed,  "  Turkey,  in 
the  condition  which  I  have  described,  has 
by  degrees  fillen  into  such  a  state  of  de- 
crepitude, that,  as  I  told  you  the  other 
night,  eager  as  we  all  .are  for  the  pro- 
longed existence  of  the  man  (and  that  I 
am  as  desirous  as  you  can  be  for  the  con- 
tinuance of  his  life,  I  beg  you  to  believe). 
he  may  suddenly  die  upon  our  hands." 
And  again,  at  another  interview,  on  the 
21st  inst.  :  "  I  think  your  government 
does  not  well  understand  my  object.  I 
am  not  so  eager  to  determine  what  shall 
be  <lone  when  the  sick  man  die.s,  as  I  am 
to  determine  with  England  what  shall  not 
be  done  upon  that  event  taking  place. 
...  I  repeat  to  you  that  the  sick  man  is 
dying  ;  and  we  can  never  allow  such  an 
event  to  take  us  by  surprise.  We  must 
come  to  some  understanding."  (Annual 
Rfgistf'r  for  1853,  p.  248,  et  s^q.)  The 
minutes  of  Sir  George  Seymour's  conver- 
pations  with  the  emperor  having  been  laid 
before  parliament  by  the  English  ministry 
in  the  course  of  the  debates  that  imme- 
diately preceded  the  declaration  of  war 
against  Rus.sia,  the  expressive  appella- 
tion. '•  Sick  Man  of  the  East,"'  was 
caught  up  and  circulated  by  the  press, 
till  it  has  become  an  established  national 
sobriquet. 

Sid'ro-phel .  A  poetical  name  fi^iven 
by  Butler,  in  his  "  Hudibras,"  to  Wil- 
liam Lilly,  a  distinguished  astrologer 


of  the  seventeenth  centurj'.  Some, 
however,  have  supposed  that  under 
this  name  Butler  intended  to  refer  to 
Sir  Paul  Neal,  a  conceited  virtuoso, 
and  a  member  of  the  Ivoyal  Society, 
who  constantly  aflirnu'd  tiiat  Butler 
was  not  the  author  of  "  lludiljras." 

The  last  inroad  of  these  pretended  friends 

to  cleanline.ss  was  almost  as  fatal  to  my  col' 

lection  Ui»  Hudibras'  visit  to  that  of  Sidrnphel 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

How  I  became  a  prophet,  it  is  not  very  im- 

Iiortant  to  the  reader  to  know.     Nevertheless, 
feel  all  the  anxiety  wliich,  under  similar  cir- 
cumstances, troubled  the  sensitive  Sidrophel. 

Macuuluy. 

Siegfried  (szeek'freet,  58,  G5).  The 
hero  of  various  Scandinavian  and 
Teutonic  legends,  particularly  of  the 
old  German  epic  poem,  the  "  Nibe- 
lungen  Lied;"  a  young  warrior  of 
peerless  physical  strengtli  and  beauty, 
and  in  valor  superior  to  all  men  of 
his  time.  Lie  cannot  easily  be  iden- 
tified with  any  historical  personage. 
In  an  old  saga,  he  is  rcjjresented  as 
having  slain  a  dreadful  dragon,  and 
bathed  in  its  blood,  whereby  his  skin 
became  as  hard  as  horn,  except  in 
one  spot,  Avhere  a  leaf  intervened. 
But  he  is  most  celebrated  for  having 
vanquished  the  ancient  fabulous  royal 
race  of  the  Nibelungen,  and  taken 
aAvay  their  immense  treasures  of  gold 
and  gems.  He  wooes,  and  finally 
Avins,  the  beautiful  Chriemhild,  but  is 
treacherously  killed  by  the  tierce  and 
covetous  Hagen,  who  seeks  the  treas- 
ures of  the  Nibelungen,  and  who 
skillfully  draws  from  Chriemhild  the 
secret  of  the  spot  where  alone  Sieg- 
fried is  mortal,  and  fatally  plimges 
a  lance  between  his  shoulders  in  a 
royal  chase.  Siegfried  is  noted  for  a 
cape  which  rendered  its  wearer  in- 
visible, and  for  a  wonderful  sword 
named  Balmung.  The  former  he 
obtained  from  the  dwarf  Alberich; 
the  latter  he  is  said  to  have  forged, 
while  yet  a  boy,  at  a  traitorous 
smith's  in  the  depths  of  a  primeval 
forest.  See  Balmuxg,  Bkunehh.!), 
Chkiemhild,  and  HACiEN. 

iB®"  "  In  this  colossal  figure  are  com- 
bined what  Greece  divided,  —  heroic 
strength  and  the  passion  lor  travel, 
Achilles  and  Ulysses."     Mirhelet,  Trans. 

Sif.      {Scand.  Myth.)      Wife  of  Thor, 


and  for  the  Ilemai-ks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SIG 


342 


SIL 


famous  for  the  beauty  of  her  hair, 
which  Loki  cut  off  wiiile  she  was 
asleep.  Thor  compelled  him  to  ^et 
her  a  new  head  ot  hair  made  of  ^old, 
that  should  i^row  like  natural  hair. 
This  he  obtained  from  the  dwarfs. 

Sig'is-mun'da.  [It.  Gfiismimda.]  1. 
The  heroine  of  one  of  the  tales  in 
iJoccaccio's  "  Decamerone,"  which 
relates  her  love  for  a  pa^e  named 
Guiscardo,  and  the  secret,  accidental 
discovery  of  their  f^uilt  by  her  lather, 
Tancred,  prince  of  .Salerno,  who  af- 
terward upbraids  her  with  her  con- 
duct, and,  findinii;  her  insensible  to 
shame  and  reproof,  sends  her  Guis- 
cardo's  heart  in  a  golden  cup,  where- 
upon the  princess  drains  a  poisonous 
draught,  after  having  poured  it  on 
her  lover's  heart. 

4®^  No  tale  of  Bocoaccio  has  been  so 
often  translated  and  imitated  as  this.  In 
English  it  is  best  known  through  the 
''  .Sigisniunda  and  Guiscardo  ■'  of  Dryden. 

The  pale  widow  whom  Captain  Richard,  in 
his  poetic  rapture,  ciiniparcd  to  a  Niobe  in 
tears,  to  a.  Siqisnnmr/fi,  to  a  weeping  Belvide- 
ra,  was  an  object  the  most  lovely  and  pathetic 
which  his  eyes  had  ever  beheld.      Thackeray. 

2.  The  heroine  of  Thomson's  trag- 
edy of  "  Tancred  and  Sigismunda," 
the  groundwork  of  which  is  the  tale 
—  founded  on  fact — of  "The  Bale- 
ful Marriage  "  ("Le  Maridfjtdt  Vtn- 
(jtance'")  in  "Gil  Bias." 
Siguna  (sze-goo^na),  or  Sigyn  (sze'- 
gin).  (Scand.  Jfytlt.)  The  wifeof  Loki, 
celebrated  for  her  constancy  to  him. 
She  sits  by  him  in  the  subterranean 
cavern  where  he  is  chained,  and  holds 
out  a  vase  to  catch  the  venom  dropped 
by  the  serpents  Avhich  hang  over  him. 
When  she  goes  out  to  empty  the  ves- 
sel, the  poison  falls  on  his  limbs,  and 
his  writhings  cause  eartlujuakes. 

Sigurd,  (sze'goofd).  The  hero  of  an 
old  Scandinavian  saga  or  legend,  the 
foundation  of  the  celebrated  German 
epic,  the  "  Nibelungen  Lied."  He 
discovered  Brvnhild,  a  beautiful  val- 
kyria,  encased  in  complete  armor, 
and  lying  in  a  death-like  sleep,  to 
which,  for  some  offense,  she  had  been 
condemned  by  Odin.  Sigurd  awoke 
her  by  ripping  up  her  corstdet,  fell  in 
love  with  her,  engaged  on  oath  to 
marry  her,  and  took   his  departure. 


He  subsequently  met  with  Gudrun, 
whom  her  mother  caused  him  to 
nuirry  by  giving  him  a  charmed  po- 
tion which  made  him  lorget  Bryn- 
hild.  This  ill->tarrcd  union  wns  the 
cause  of  unnumbered  woes.  Slyurd 
is  the  Icelandic  or  Old  Norse  form  of 
Sieiifi-itd.     See  Siegki;iel). 

Sikes.  A  rulhau  in  Dickens's  "  Oli-. 
ver  Twist." 

Silence.  A  country  justice,  in  tha 
Second  Part  of  Shakespeare's  "  King 
IlenrvIV.;"  a  man  of  untamable 
mirth  when  he  is  tipsy,  and  of  asi- 
nine dullness  Avhen  he  is  abstinent. 

Like  Muster  Silfiicp,  lie  had  been  merry 
twice  and  once  in  his  time.  Sir  H\  Scott. 

Silent  Sister.  A  name  given  to 
Trinity  College,  Dublin,  on  account 
of  the  little  influence  it  exerts  in  pro- 
portion to  its  resources. 

Trinity  College  itself  held  its  ground  and 
grow  wealthy  only  to  deserve  the  name  of  the 
Sili'iit  Sit'tr-r.  while  its  great  endowments 
ser^•e<l  ( tfectuallv  to  indemnify  it  against  the 
necessity  of  conforming  to  the  conditions  un- 
der wliich  alone  its  example  could  be  iiseful 
to  the  whole  nation.  (iohhvin  Smith. 

Neither  Oxford  nor  Cambridt:e,  I  am  cer- 
tain, would  blush  to  own  my  Tabors  in  this 
department  [classical  criticism  and  exegesis]; 
and  yet  I  was  an  alumnus  of  her  whom  they 
usedto  style  the  Siknt  Sister.  Kciyhtley. 

Si-le'nus.  [Gr.  SeiArjj'd?.]  ( 6V.  ^ 
Rum.  Myth.)  The  foster-father,  in- 
structor, and  companion  of  Bacchus; 
represented  as  a  jovial  old  man,  with 
a  bald  head,  pug  nose,  and  rubicund 
visage,  and  generally  as  intoxicated, 
and  therefore  riding  on  an  ass  or  .sup- 
ported by  satyrs.  His  fondness  for 
sleep  and  music,  and  his  lascivious- 
ness,  are  prominent  traits  in  his  char- 
acter. He  is  further  described  as  a 
prophetic  deity. 

The  tile-beard  of  Jourdan  is  shaven  off;  his 
fat  visage  has  got  coppered,  and  studded  with 
black  carbuncles:  the  Silfntis-trunk  is  swollen 
with  drink  and  high  Uving.  Carlyle. 

Sil'u-rist,  The.  Henry  Vaughan 
(1021-1005),  a  British  poet  of  some 
note ;  —  so  called  because  born  among 
the  Silures,  or  people  of  South  Wales. 

Sil-va'nus.  {Rom.  ^[;|ih)  A  deity 
presiding  over  woods,  forests,  and 
fields.     [Written  also  S  y  1  v  a  n  u  s.] 

In  shadier  bower 
More    sacred    and    sequestered,  though    but 

feigned, 
Pan  or  Si/lrantui  never  slept.  MUtotu 


US'  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


SIL 


343 


SIN 


Silver  Age.  [Lat.  Argentea  ceUts.'] 
(  Gr.  ()'•  Rnin.  Mytli.)  One  of  the  four 
ages  into  which  tlie  history  of  jnan- 
kiiid  was  divided  by  the  ancient  po- 
ets. It  was  ruled  over  by  Jupiter, 
and  was  marked  by  the  change  of 
the  seasons,  and  the  division  and  cul- 
tivation of  lands.  See  Brazen  Age 
and  Golden  Age. 

Silver-fork  School.  A  name  which 
has  been  given  to  novelists  of  the 
Theodore  Hook  class;  that  is,  those 
who  attach  great  and  undue  impor- 
tance to  the  etiquette  of  the  drawing- 
room,  and  the  mere  externals  of  so- 
cial intercourse.  An»ong  the  more 
distinguished  Avriters  of  this  class  are 
reckoned  Mrs.  Trollope,  Lady  Bless- 
ington,  and  Sir  Edward  Bulwer  Lyt- 
ton. 

Silverpen.  A  nom  de  plume  adopted 
by  Eliza  Meteyard  (b.  1824),  an  Eng- 
lish authoress.  It  was  originally  be- 
stowed upon  her  by  Douglas  Jerrold. 

Silver-tongued,  The.  1.  An  epithet 
applied  to  Joshua  Sylvester  (15G3- 
1618),  the  translator  of  Du  Bartas's 
"  Divine  Weeks  and  Works." 

2.  The  same  epithet  has  been  ap- 
plied to  William  Bates  (1625-1G99), 
an  eminent  Puritan  divine,  reckoned 
the  most  polished  writer,  if  not  the 
best  scholar,  of  the  whole  body  of 
ministers  who  retired  from  the  church 
in  1G62,  on  the  passage  of  the  Act  of 
Uniformity,  and  formed  Avhat  is  some- 
times called  the  "  Dissenting  Inter- 
est." 

Sn'vi-a.  The  name  of  a  lady  beloved 
by  Valentine,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Two 
Gentlemen  of  Verona." 

Simple.  A  servant  to  Slender,  in 
Shakespeare's  "Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor," 

Simple  Simon,  The  subject  of  a 
well-known  popular  tale  of  early  and 
unknown  authorship. 

4®="  ''  Simple  Simon's  misfortunes  are 
such  a.s  are  incident  to  all  the  human  rice, 
since  they  arosie  '  from  his  wife  Margery's 
cruelty,  which  he<rau  the  very  morning 
after  their  marriage  ;  '  and  we  therefore 
do  not  know  whether  it  is  necessary  to 
peek  for  a  Teutonic  or  Northern  original 
for  this  once  popular  book  "        Qu.  Rec. 


Sind'bad  the  SaUor.  A  noted  char- 
acter in  the  "  Arai)ian  Nights'  Enter- 
tainments," in  which  is  related  the 
story  of  his  seven  strange  voyages  and 
his  wonderful  adventures.  [Written 
also,  less  correctly,  S  i  n  ba  d,] 

ierg=-  On  his  first  voyage,  he  disembarked 
on  what  was  supposed  to  be  a  small  green 
island,  but  was  in  reality  only  a  huge 
sea-monster,  which,  when  a  fire  was  kin- 
dled on  his  back,  in  order  to  dress  some 
food,  dived  under  water,  and  left  Sindbad 
and  his  companions  struggling  for  life  in 
the  midst  of  the  ocean.  Sindbad  him- 
self escaped,  but  most  of  the  others  were 
drowned.  On  the  second  voyage,  he 
landed  on  an  island  to  procure  water, 
strayed  from  his  companions,  fell  asleep, 
was  given  up  as  lost,  and  left  to  perish. 
Discovering  a  monstrous  bird,  called  a 
roc,  or  rukh.  sitting  on  its  egg,  he  tied 
himself  to  one  of  its  legs,  and  was  carried 
the  next  day  to  the  main  land,  and  de- 
posited in  a  valley  strewn  with  diamonds, 
but  unluckily  shut  in  on  every  side  by 
lofty  and  precipitous  mountains.  From 
this  awkward  situation  he  extricated 
himself  by  a  stratagem  similar  to  that 
by  which  he  had  escaped  from  the  island. 
On  the  third  voyage,  he  fell  among  gigan- 
tic hairy  savages,  with  whom  he  had  an 
adventure  precisely  like  that  of  Ulysses  in 
the  land  of  the  Cyclops.  (See  Polyphe- 
mus.) On  his  fourth  voyage,  lie  suffered 
shipwreck  on  the  coast  of  a  country  of 
which  the  king  took  him  into  favor,  but 
compelled  him,  though  he  had  a  wife 
living  in  Bagdad,  to  marry  a  lady  of  the 
court.  Upon  the  death  of  this  lady,  he 
was  buried  alive  with  her  in  a  deep  pit, 
according  to  an  irreversible  custom  of  the 
country,  but  was  fortunate  enough  to 
discover  a  long  passage  which  led  to  an 
opening  on  the  sea-shore,  whence  he  es- 
caped to  his  own  land.  On  his  fifth  voy- 
age, he  fell  into  the  po^ver  of  the  Old  Man 
of  the  Sea.  (See  Old  Man  of  the  Sea.) 
On  the  sixth  voyage,  his  ship  got  into  a 
rapid  current,  which,  aided  by  a  strong 
wind  blowing  ever  directly  toward  the 
shore,  carried  her  to  the  foot  of  an  in- 
accessible mountain,  where  she  went  to 
pieces.  Sindbad,  having  survived  his 
comrades,  made  a  raft,  committed  him- 
self to  a  river  of  fresh  water  running  out 
of  the  sea  into  a  great  cavern  at  the  base 
of  the  mountain,  floated  for  some  days 
in  perfect  darkness,  and  when  he  at  last 
came  out  into  the  light,  found  him.sclf 
in  the  island  of  Ceylon.  Undi.^mayed  by 
so  many  misfortunes,  he  made  a  seventh 
voyage,  was  attacked  by  corsairs,  sold 
into  slavery,  and  employed  in  shooting 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  whicli  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SIN 


344 


SIS 


elef-hants  from  a  tree.  After  a  time,  he 
was  ;ittHckeil  by  a  troop  ot  tuese  auiiiials, 
■was  cHUgiit,  and  farrit'ii  to  a  hill -side 
comijletely  covered  with  tusks  and  hones 
of  elepiiunts,  and  then  sutfered  to  depart 
unharmed,  tor  communicatiug  this  dis- 
covery to  his  master  be  received  his  free- 
dom, and  was  sent  home  to  Bagdad, 
loaded   with  riches. 

This  is  the  first  George, —  first  triumph  of 
the  Constitutional  Principle,  which  has  since 
gone  to  sucli  sublinie  heights  among  us, — 
nt'ight.s  which  we  at  last  begin  to  suspect 
iiiizht  be  (lei)tlis,  leading  down,  all  men  now 
aslT,  Wlutherwardsi'  A  much  admired  in- 
vention in  its  time,  that  of  letting  go  the  rud- 
der, or  setting  a  wooden  figure  expensively 
dressed  to  take  charge  of  it,  and  discerning 
that  the  ship  would  sail  of  itself  so  much  more 
easily,  which  it  will,  if  a  peculiarly  good  sea- 
boat,"  in  certain  kinds  of  sea  — for  a  time,  till 
the  Siwllxi'l '  Magnetic  Mountains"  begin  to 
be  felt  pulling,  or  the  circles  of  Charybdis  get 
you  in  their  sweep,  and  then  what  an  inven- 
tion it  was!  Carlyle. 

Singing  Tree.     See  P.vkizade. 

Single-speech  Ham'il-ton,  A  by- 
iiaino  given  to  William  Gerard  Ham- 
ilton (17-29-1706),  an  English  states- 
man. 

i^^  "It  was  on  this  niglit  [November 
13, 1775]  that  Gerard  Hamilton  delivered 
that  sitigle  speeck  from  which  liis  nick- 
name wa.s  derived.  His  eloquence  threw 
into  the  shade  everj'  orator  except  fitt, 
who  declaimed  against  the  subsidies  for 
an  hour  and  a  half  with  extraordinary 
energy  and  effect."  Macaulay. 

J^^  '•  The  preceding  generation  had 
greatly  esteemed  the  man  called  "Single- 
speech  Hamilton  ; '  not  at  all  for  the 
speech  (which,  though  good,  very  few 
people  had  read),  but  entirelj-  for  the 
supposed  fact  that  he  had  exhausted 
himself  in  that  one  speech,  and  had  be- 
come physically  incapable  of  making  a 
second  :  so  that  alterward.  when  he  real- 
ly did  make  a  second,  every  body  was  in- 
credulous :  until,  the  thing  being  past 
denial,  naturally  the  world  was  disgusted, 
and  most  people  dropped  his  acquaint- 
ance." De  Qaincey. 

Singular  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Sin- 
(fithiris.]  A  title  given  to  William 
Occam  (or  Ockham),  an  English  noni- 
inalistic  philosopher  of  the  latter  part 
of  the  thirteenth  and  beginning  of  the 
fourteenth  centuries,  distinguished  for 
his  trenchant  logic.  He  was  the  great- 
est of  the  later  schoolmen.  His  phi- 
losophy rested  to  a  considerable  de- 
gree upon  a  famous  principle  called 
from  him  "  Occani's  razor;  "  namely, 


"  Entin  nnn  sunt  TnultipUcanda,"  Enti- 
ties—  that  is,  real  existences  repre- 
senting general  ifleas,  or  the  tenns 
used  to  denote  the  genera  and  species 
of  things  —  are  not  to  be  unnecessa- 
rily multiplied. 

Si'n6n.  [Gr.  'S.i.vwv.]  ( Or.  (f-  Ram. 
Mijth.)  A  crafty  Greek,  who  induced 
the  Trojans  to  take  into  their  city  the 
fatal  W(»oden  Horse,  which  was  tilled 
with  armed  enemies.  See  Wooden 
H<>i;.s);. 

Sin'tram.  The  hero  of  a  Gennan  ro- 
mance written  by  Baron  La  Motte 
l'ou(|U«'',  entitled  ''  Sintram  and  his 
Companions,"  — a  tale  of  the  old  life 
of  media'val  Europe,  suggested  to  the 
author  by  Albert  l>iirer's  engraving 
of  the  Knight,  Death,  and  ^atan. 

Si'rens  (9).  [Lat.  Sirenes,  Gr.  2ei- 
pfyve?.]  (Gr.  if  Rom.  Jfi/i/i.)  Three 
sister  sea-nymphs,  who  usually  re- 
sided on  a  small  island  near  Cape 
Pelorus,  in  Sicily,  and,  by  their  me- 
lodious singing,  enticed  ashore  those 
who  were  sailing  by,  and  then  killed 
them.  Later  writers  represent  them 
as  presiding  over  the  music  of  the 
spheres.  Their  names  are  usually 
given  as  Parthenope,  Ligeia,  and 
Leucothea. 

Sir  Oracle.     See  Oracle,  Sir. 

Sister  Anne.  A  sister  of  Fatima, 
the  seventh  and  last  of  the  wives  of 
P)lue-beard.  This  unfortunate  lady 
having  been  condemned  to  death  by 
her  husband,  obtained  the  favor  of  a 
brief  delay;  and  her  sister  Anne  as- 
cended the  highest  tower  of  the  castle 
to  watch  tor  her  brothers,  who  were 
expected  about  that  time  to  make 
them  a  visit,  and  Avho,  happily  arriv- 
ing at  the  last  moment,  rescued  their 
sister,  and  put  Blue-beard  to  death. 

See  BLUE-IiEAKD. 

If  Painting  be  Poetry's  sister,  she  can  only 
be  a  Sister  Anne,  who  will  see  nothing  but  a 
flock  of  sheep,  while  the  other  bodies  forth  n 
troop  of  horsemen  with  drawn  sabers  and 
white-plumed  helmets.  Hare. 

Ah  !  why  was  there  no  clairvovant  Sister 
Anne  to  cry  that  she  saw  "somebody  com- 
ing,"—to  tell  the  desolate  girl,  staring  from 
lier  window  into  the  unfriendly  ni-jht.  that 
succor  was  afoot!  Th'eo.  Winthrop. 

Sis'y-phus.  [Gr.  1i<Tv<i>o<;.'\  {Gr.  (f 
Rjm.  Myth.)    A  son  of  ^olus,  and 


CS-  Fs  the  "Key  to    the    Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation*, 


SIV 


345 


SLA 


husband  of  Merope,  famous  for  his 
fraud  and  avarice.  He  was  pun- 
ished in  the  lower  worhl  tor  his 
•wickedness  by  having  to  roll  up-hill 
a  large  stone,  which,  as  soon  as  he 
I'ad  reached  the  top,  always  rolled 
di  wn  again. 

With  many  a  weary  step,  and  many  a  proan, 
I'p  the  hi;j;li  hill  he  heaves  a  huge  lormd  stone; 
Tlie    huLie    round    btone,   returning    with    ii 

hound, 
ThuTiders     impetuous    down,    and     smokes 

along  the  ground.  I'ojtc's  Homer. 

Siva  (se'va).  [Sansk.  Cavf,  hap])iness, 
fuial  bliss.]  {Hindu  Myth.)  The 
supreme  being,  in  the  character  of 
the  avenger  or  destroyer;  the  third 
person  in  the  Triinurti,  or  trinity,  of 
the  Vedas. 

Siward  (se'ward).  Earl  of  Northum- 
berland, and  general  of  the  English 
forces,  in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of 
"Macbeth." 

Sixteen-string  Jack.  A  nickname 
popularly  given  to  .John  Rann,  a 
noted  English  highwayman,  who, 
after  having  been  several  times  tried 
and  acquitted,  was  at  last  hanged 
at  Tyburn  on  the  30th  of  November, 
1774.  He  was  remarkable  for  foppery 
in  his  dress,  and  particularly  for 
wearing  breeches  with  eight  strings 
at  each  knee. 

BosweU.  "  Does  not  Grav's  poetry,  sir, 
tower  above  the  eoiiiinon  mark?" 

Johtison.  "Yes,  sir;  but  we  must  attend  to 
the  difference  between  what  men  in  general 
cannot  do  if  they  would,  and  what  every  man 
may  do  if  he  would.  Sirteen-  string  Jack 
towered  above  the  common  mark." 

BosivdVs  Life  of  Johnson. 

Skeggs,  Miss  Carolina  "Wilhel- 
mina  Amelia.  A  character  in  Gold- 
smith's "  Vicar  of  Waketield;  "  a  false 
f)retender  to  gentility,  who  boasts  of 
ler  aristocratic  connections  and  ac- 
quaintance, and  prides  herself  upon 
lier  taste  for  Shakespeare  and  love  of 
musical  glasses,  but  who  turns  out  to 
be  no  better  than  she  should  be. 

fakidbladnir  (skid'blad'ner).  [Old 
Norse  .s^<V/,  a  thin  plank,  and  Mad.,  a 
leaf.]  {Scmid.  Mylh.)  The  name  of 
a  ship,  made  by  the  dwarfs  and  given 
to  Frey.  It  was  so  capacious  that  it 
would  hold  all  the  gods,  with  their 
weapons  and  armor,  and,  when  the 
sails  were  set,  it  always  had  a  fair 
wind.    When  not  required  for  naviga- 


tion, it  could  be  folded  up  like  a  piece 

of  cloth. 

Skim.'ming-t6n.  A  word  of  unknown 
origin,  but  supposed  to  be  the  name 
of  some  notorious  scold  of  the  olden 
lime.  [Written  also  Skimmer  ton 
and  S  k  imi  t  ry.] 

I^£ff=  The  word  is  used  only  in  the 
phrase,  "  To  ride  Skiuiniington,"'  or  "  To 
ride  the  Skinmiington,"  employed  to  de- 
scribe a  species  of  mock  triiuiiplial  pro- 
cession in  honor  of  a  man  who  had  been 
beaten  by  his  wife.  It  consisted  of  a  cav- 
alcade in  which  the  man  (oi",  iiccording 
to  old  autliorities  cited  by  Nares,  the 
mail's  next  neighbor)  rode  beliind  a 
woman,  with  his  face  to  the  house's  tail, 
liolding  a  distaff  in  his  liand.  at  which  he 
seemed  to  worli,  the  woman  all  the  while 
beating  him  with  a  ladle,  and  those  who 
accompanied  them  making  hideous  )ioise8 
with  frying-p;ins,  buirs-horus,  marrow- 
bones, cleavers,  and  the  like.  "  As  the 
procession  passed  on,"  says  Sir  ^Valter 
Scott,  "those  who  attended  it  in  an 
official  cai)acity  were  wont  to  sweep  the 
threshold  of  the  houses  in  which  fame 
affirmed  the  mistresses  to  exercise  para- 
mount authority,  which  was  given  and 
received  as  a  hint  that  their  inmates 
might,  in  their  turn,  be  made  the  sub- 
ject of  a  similar  ovation." 

Sklm'pole,  Har'fild.  A  character  in 
Dickens's  "  Bleak  House;  "  a  ]ilausi- 
ble,  mild-mannered  sponger  U])on  his 
friends;  said  to  have  been  suggested 
by  some  of  the  more  prominent  traits 
in  the  character  of  Leigh  Hunt, 
though  not  intended  as  a  portrait  of 
him. 

From  Paris,  he  wrote  to  his  "  dear  Lydia  " 
one  of  those  warm,  affectionate  letters  which 
are  delightful  to  read,  and  which,  it  is  ap- 
parent, no  one  with  a  particle  of  the  TIarolil 
Skimpolc  leaven  in  his  frame  could  hrve 
written.  Pei-cy  Fitzgerald. 

Slaw'ken-ber'gi-us,  Ha'fen.  The 
name  of  an  imaginary  author,  —  dis- 
tinguished by  the  length  of  his  nose, 
—  who  is  quoted  and  referred  to  in 
Sterne's  ''  Life  and  Opinions  of  Tris- 
tram Shandy,  Gent.,"  as  a  great  au- 
thority on  all  learning  connected  with 
the  subject  of  noses.  A  quaint  and 
singular  tale  —  professedly  extracted 
from  his  writings  —  about  a  man 
Avith  an  enormously  long  nose  is  in- 
troduced into  the  work  by  way  of 
episode. 
No  nose  can  be  justly  amputated  by  the 


nd  for  the  Remarks  and  RuIeJ  to  whicli  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SLA 


346 


SLO 


nublic,  not  even  the  nose  of  Slawkenhe.rmiis 
himself.  Curlyle. 

dlay-good,  Giant.  See  Giant  Slay- 
good. 

Sleek,  Aminadab.  A  character  in 
llie  comedy  of  "  The  Serious  Family," 
by  Morris  Bariiett. 

eueeping  Beauty  in  the  "Wood. 
[Fr.  Li  Belle  ait  Buis  (hiniuuit^  (ier. 
Dornr6M-hen.'\  Tiie  heroine  of  a 
celebrated  nursery  tale,  written  in 
French  l)y  Charles  Perrault,  which 
relates  how  a  princess  was  shut  up 
by  fairy  enchantment,  to  sleep  a 
hundred  years  in  a  castle,  around 
which  spranjx  up  a  dense,  impenetra- 
ble wood,  and  how,  at  the  expiration 
of  the  appointed  time,  she  was  deliv- 
ered from  her  imprisonment  and  her 
trance  by  a  gallant  younf]^  prince,  be- 
fore whom  the  forest  opened  itself  to 
attbrd  him  passage. 

4®°"  Grimm  derives  this  popular  and 
widely  diffused  tale  from  the  old  North- 
ern mythology,  and  finds  its  prototype  ia 
the  sleeping  Brynhild,  and  her  awaken- 
ing and  deliverance  by  Sigurd.  Dunlop 
thinks  it  was  suggested  by  the  story  of 
Epimenides.  the  Cretan  poet,  who.  when 
a  boy,  is  said  to  have  been  sent  out  by 
his  father  to  fetch  a  sheep,  and,  seeking 
shelter  from  the  mid-day  sun,  went  into 
a  cave.  He  there  fell  into  a  sleep  in 
which  he  remained  for  fifty-seven  years. 
On  waking,  he  sought  for  the  sheep,  not 
knowing  how  long  he  had  been  sleeping, 
and  was  astonished  to  find  every  thing 
around  him  altered.  When  he  returned 
home,  he  found  to  his  great  amazement, 
that  his  younger  brother  had  in  the 
mean  time  grown  an  old  man.  Uhland 
and  Tennyson  have  given  metrical  versKms 
of  the  story  of  the  Sleeping  Beauty.  See 
Epimenides  and  Sigurd. 

Like  the  prince  in  tlie  nursery  tale,  he 
[Alfieri]  sought  and  found  the  Sleeinn'j  Bennti/ 
within  the  recesses  which  had  so  Ion*;  con- 
cealed her  from  mankind.  Macaulaij. 
These  precincts  of  Klein-Schncllendorf  .  .  . 
are  silent,  vacant,  yet  comfortably  furnished, 
like  Sleeping  Beauty's  castle.  Curli/!e. 

Bleipnir  (szllp'nef).  {Scand.  Mijlh.) 
The  name  of  Odin's  horse,  the  noblest 
of  his  race,  who  carries  his  master  over 
land  and  sea.  He  is  of  a  ^ray  color, 
has  eij^ht  lejjs,  and  typifies  the  wind, 
which  blows  from  eifjht  principal 
points.     [Written  also  S  1  e  i  p  n  e  r.] 

Slender.  A  character  in  Shakespeare's 
''  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor." 


"  In  this  play  the  English  Renfl*- 
man,  in  age  and  youth,  is  brought  upon 
the  stage,  slightly  caricatured  in  .Shallow, 
and  far  more  so  in  I^lendt-r.  The  latter, 
indeed,  is  a  perfect  satire,  and,  I  think, 
was  so  intended,  on  the  brillinnt  youth 
of  the  provinces,  such  a,s  we  may  believe 
it  to  have  been  before  the  introduction  of 
newspapers  and  turnpike  roads  ;  awkward 
and  boobyish  among  civil  people,  but  at 
home  in  rude  sports,  and  proud  of  ex- 
ploits at  which  the  town  would  laugh, 
yet,  perhaps,  with  more  courage  and 
good-nature  than  the  laughers."  Hal- 
lam.  "Slender  and  Sir  Andrew  Ague- 
cheek  are  fools,  troubled  with  an  uneasy 
consciousness  of  their  folly,  which,  in  the 
latter,  produces  a  most  edifying  meek- 
ness and  docility,  and,  in  the  former, 
awkwardness,  obstinacy,  and  confusion." 
Macaulay. 

By  my  faith,  Dick,  thou  hast  fallen  into 
poor  Slender's  blunder:  missed  Anne  Paj^e, 
and  brought  us  a  great  lubberly  postmaster's 
boy.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Slick,  Sam.  The  title  and  hero  of  va- 
rious humorous  narratives,  illustrat- 
ing^ and  exaggerating  the  peculiarities 
of  the  New-England  character  and 
dialect,  written  by  Judge  Thomas 
Chandler  Haliburton  (d.  18G5),  a  na- 
tive of  Nova  Scotia.  Sam  Slick  is 
represented  as  a  Yankee  clock-maker 
and  peddler,  full  of  quaint  drollery, 
unsophisticated  wit,  knowledge  of  hu- 
man nature,  and  aptitude  in  the  use 
of  what  he  calls  "  soft  sawder." 

Slipslop,  Mrs.  One  of  the  leading 
female  characters  in  Fielding's  novel 
of  "Joseph  Andrews;"  a  woman  of 
frail  morals. 

Slop,  Doctor.    See  Doctor  Slop. 

Slough   of  Despond.     In  Bunyan's 

"  Pilgrim's  Progress,"  a  deep  bog 
into  which  Christian  falls,  and  from 
which  Help  extricates  him. 

>e®="  "  The  name  of  the  slough  wa.<!  De- 
spond. Here,  therefore,  they  wallowed 
for  a  time  ;  and  Christian,  because  of  the 
burden  that  was  on  his  back,  began  to 
sink  into  the  mire.  This  miry  slough  is 
such  a  place  as  cannot  be  mended  ;  it  is 
the  descent  whither  the  scum  and  filth 
that  attends  conviction  for  sin  doth  con- 
tinually run,  and  therefore  it  is  called 
the  Slough  of  Despond ;  for  still.  a.s  the 
pinner  is  awakened  about  his  lo<t  condi- 
tion, there  arise  in  his  soul  many  fears, 
and  doubts  and  discouraging  apprehen- 
sions, which  all  of  them  get  together,  and 


IRf  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanations, 


SLY 


347 


SNO 


settle  in  this  place,  and  this  is  the  reason 
of  tlie  badness  of  this  fjround.''    Bitnyan. 

Ever.v  thing  retroKradt-d  witli  him  towards 
the  Verge  of  tlie  miry  S/omj/t  of  Despond, 
which  yawns  for  insolveut  debtors. 

Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Sly,  Christopher.  A  tinker,  in  the 
'*  Induetiuii  "  to  Shakespeare's  "  Tam- 
ing of  the  Shrew." 

It  was  a  good  commonty,  as  ChriMopher 
Sly  to.y&  ;  uor  were  we  sorry  when  it  was 
done.  Tliuckeray. 

Enough,  his  poor  Eminence  [Cardinal 
Louis  de  Roiian]  sits  in  the  fittest  place,  in 
the  fittest  mood:  a  newly  awakened  Christo- 
pher Sly ;  and  with  his  "small  ale"  too  he- 
side  them.  Curlyle. 

Small-back.  A  cant  name  in  Scot- 
land tor  Death,  usually  delineated  as 
a  skeleton. 

Men   have  queer  fancies  when  old  Small- 
hack  is  gripping  them;  but  Stnall-txick  must 
lead  down  the  dance  with  us  all  in  our  time. 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Small-beer  Poet.  A  nickname  given 
by  Cobbett  to  William  Thomas  Fitz- 
gerald ( 1750-1829 ),  a  poetaster,  satir- 
ized by  Lord  Byron  in  his  "  English 
Bards  and  Scotch  Reviewers,"  and 
parodied  by  Horace  Smith  in  the 
"  Rejected  Addresses." 

Small-endians.  See  Big-endians, 
The. 

Smec-tym'nu-us.  The  title  of  a 
celebrated  pamphlet  containing  an 
attack  upon  episcopacy,  published  in 
1641.  This  work  was  written  by  five 
Presbyterian  divines,  and  the  title 
was  formed  from  the  initial  letters  of 
their  names.  —  (Stephen  J/arshall, 
/.'dmund  Talamy.  Thomas  Foung, 
3farthew  A'^ewcomen,  and  WTlliam 
(Spurstow.  [Written  also,  but  im- 
properly, S  m  e  c  t  y  m  n  u  s.] 

Sm^el-fun'ffus.  A  name  given  by 
Sterne  to  Smollett,  who.  in  170G,  pub- 
lished a  volume  of  "Travels  through 
France  and  Italy,"  filled  with  illib- 
eral and  splenetic  observations  upon 
the  institutions  and  customs  of  the 
countries  he  visited.  "  The  chroni- 
cle of  his  journey,"  says  Fitzgerald, 
"  from  the  first  day  to  the  last,  is 
literally  one  prolonged  snarl."  The 
nickname  —  the  composition  of  which 
is  obvious  —  became  exceedingly  pop- 
ular in  England,  much  to  the  annoy- 
ance of  Smollett.  It  is  sometimes, 
though  rarely,  used  in  a  general  way 


to  designate  an  ill-tempered  antiqua- 
ry, or  a  mousing  and  inappreciative 
historian. 

The  lamented  Siueirrinqns  traveled  from 
Boulogne  to  I'aris,  from  I'uris  to  Home,  and 
80  on;  but  he  set  out  with  the  sph'en  and 
jaundice,  and  every  object  he  pM.-necl  l)y  was 
discolored  or  distorted.  He  wiote  an  account 
of  them,  but 't  was  nothing  but  the  account 
of  his  miserable  feelings. 

Sterne,  SentiiJie7it(il  Journey. 

Smelfiinffits,  denouncing  the  torpid  vacuity 
of  Voltaire's  biojjfraphers,  says  he  never  met 
with  one  Frenclunan,  even  of  the  litexary 
classes,  who  could  tell  him  whence  this  name 
Voltaire  oiigiiiated.  Carlyle. 

Sm,ike.  A  broken-spirited  protege  of 
Nicholas  Nickleby,  in  Dickens's  novel 
of  that  name. 

Smith,  ^Wayland.  See  Wayland 
Smith. 

Sm.oky  City.  A  name  sometimes 
given  to  Pittsburg,  an  important 
manufacturing  city  of  Pennsylvania. 
The  use  of  bituminous  coal  occasions 
dense  volumes  of  smoke  to  fill  the  air 
in  and  around  the  place,  soiling  the 
garments  of  passengers,  and  giving 
the  buildings  a  dark  and  sooty  ap- 
pearance. 

Smol'kin,  or  Smul'kin.  The  name 
ot  a  fiend  or  evil  spirit  mentioned  in 
Shakespeare's  "  King  Lear,"  a.  iii., 
sc.  4.     See  Flibbertigibbet,  1. 

Snare.  A  sheriff's  officer,  in  the 
Second  Part  of  Shakespeare's  "  King 
Henry  IV." 

Sneak,  Jerry.  The  name  of  a  hen- 
pecked pin-maker,  a  noted  character 
in  Foote's  farce,  '•  The  Mavor  of 
Garratt." 

From  Lucifer  to  Jerry  Sneak  there  is  not  an 
aspect  of  evil,  imperfection,  and  littlenrss 
which  can  elude  the  light  of  humor  or  the 
lightning  of  wit.  E.  P.  Whipple. 

If,  in  the  logic  of  character,  Ijigo  or  Jerry 
Sneak  be  the  premises,  it  is  impossible  to  find 
Bacon  in  the  conclusion.       Atlantic  Monthly. 

Sneer.  A  carping  character  in  Sheri- 
dan's "  Critic."  with  just  wit  enough 
to  make  him  mischievous. 

Sneerwell,   Lady.      A   character  in 

Sheridan's  "  School  for  Scandal," 
given  to  gossip  and  slander. 

Snod'grass,  Augustus  (2).  One  of 
the  Pickwick  Club,  in  Dickens's  nov- 
el, "  The  Pickwick  Papers;"  a  sort 
of  poetic  nonentity. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xir-xxxii. 


SNO 


348 


SOL 


Snout.  A  tinker,  in  Shakespeare's 
''  Midsuniiner-Night's  Dream." 

Snug.  A  joiner,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Alidsunnner- Night's  l)rfain,"  who 
takes  part  in  the  "  Interlude." 

The  jest  is  as  flat  and  fliiU  as  that  of  Syntg 
the  joiner,  when  he  acta  the  lion  barefaced. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Sofronia  (so-fro'ne-a).  A  youn<^ 
Christian  of  Jerusalem,  who  is  the 
heroine  of  one  of  the  most  touching 
episodes  in  Tasso's  "Jerusalem  De- 

'    livered." 

j8^  ''  The  Mahommedan  king  of  Jeru- 
salem [Aladin],  at  the  instigation  of  Is- 
meu.-J,  a  magician,  deprives  a  Christian 
church  of  its  image  of  the  Virgin,  and 
sets  it  up  in  a  mosque,  under  a  spell  of 
enchantment,  as  a  palladium  against  the 
Crusaders.  The  image  is  stolen  in  the 
night ;  and  the  king,  unable  to  discover 
who  has  taken  it.  orders  a  massacre  of 
the  Christian  portion  of  his  subjects, 
■which  is  prevented  by  Sofrfinia"s  ac- 
cusing herself  of  the  offense.  Her  lover. 
Olindo,  finding  her  sentenced  to  the 
stake  in  consequence,  disputes  with  her 
the  right  of  martyrdom.  He  is  con- 
demneil  to  suffer  with  her.  The  Amazon 
Clorinda,  who  has  come  to  fight  on  the 
side  of  Aladin,  obtains  their  pardon  in 
acknowledgment  of  her  services ;  and 
Sofronia,  who  had  not  loved  Olindo  be- 
fore, now  returns  his  passion,  and  goes 
with  him  from  the  stake  to  the  marriage- 
altar."  Leigh  Hunt. 

Sol.  [Lat.,  the  sun.]  (R<mi.  Myth.) 
A  surname  of  Apollo.     See  Apollo. 

Solar  City.    See  City  of  the  Sun. 

Soldiers'  Friend.  A  surname  popu- 
larly given  in  England  to  Frederick, 
Dukeof  York  (1763-1827),  the  second 
son  of  George  III.,  and  commander 
of  the  British  troops  in  the  Low 
Countries  at  the  period  of  the  French 
Revolution.  It  was  through  his  exer- 
tions that  the  system  of  favoritism 
was  abolished,  and  political  opinions 
were  no  longer  made  a  ground  of 
preferment.  In  1814,  he  was  publicly 
thanked  by  parliament  for  his  excel- 
lent administration  of  the  army. 

Solemn  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor  Solem- 
nis.]  An  honorary  appellation  given 
by  the  Sorbonne  to  Henry  Goethals 
(1227-1293),  a  eminent  schoolman 
who  was  a  member  of  that  famous 
theological  faculty. 


Solemn    League    and    Covenant. 

{J-M(j.  (f  »Sc-<./.  Hist.)  A  bond  of 
union  adopted  by  the  Scottish  parlia- 
ment in  1038.  and  by  the  English 
parliament  in  1643.  Its  main  object 
and  sjiecitic  obligation  was  support 
of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  and  extir- 
pation ot'p()i)ery  and  prelacy.  Charles 
II.  subscribed  to  the  covenant  on  his 
coronation,  in  1651 ;  but,  at  the  Kesto- 
ration,  it  was  declared  null  by  act  of 
parliament,  and  was  burned  by  the 
common  hangman. 

Solid  Doctor.  A  title  conferred  iipon 
Kichard  Middleton  (d.  1304),  an  Eng- 
lish theologian  of  the  order  of  tlie 
Cordeliers;  —  so  called  from  his  ex- 
tensive learning.  See  Profound 
Doctor,  2. 

So-li'nus.  Duke  of  Ephesus,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Comedy  of  Errors." 

Solomon  of  England.  1.  An  ap- 
pellation bestowed  upon  Henry  YIL 
(1457-150'J),  tirst  of  the  Tudor  kings 
of  England,  whose  reign,  conducted 
upon  pacitic  principles,  was,  upon  the 
whole,  beneticial  to  his  country,  and 
gave  an  opportunity  ibr  the  nation  to 
tlourish  by  the  development  of  its  in- 
ternal resources. 

2.  The  same  title  has  been  satir- 
ically awarded  to  James  I.  (1566- 
1025),  on  account  of  his  pedantry  and 
puerility.  Buchanan,  his  instructor, 
said  that  he  "  made  him  a  y)edant 
because  he  could  make  nothing  else 
of  him."  Sully  aptly  termed  him 
"  the  wisest  fool  hi  Christendom." 
"  He  was,  indeed,"  says  Macaulay, 
"made  up  of  two  men,  a  witty,  welL 
read  scholar,  who  wrote,  disputed,  and 
harangued,  and  a  nervous,  driveling 
idiot,  who  acted." 

Solomon  of  France.  1.  An  ap- 
pellation conferred  upon  Charles  V. 
(1330-1380),  king  of  France.  He 
was  also  called  "  The  Wi.se." 

2.  A  title  bestowed  upon  Louis 
IX.,  or  St.  Louis  (1215-1270),  who 
summoned  to  his  council  the  most 
able  and  virtuous  men  of  his  king- 
dom, put  an  end  to  many  ecclesias- 
tical abuses,  and  was  always  intent 
upon  promoting  the  happiness  of  his 
subjects. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanationi, 


SOM 


349 


SOU 


Som'nus.  [Lat.]  {Gr.  4^  Rom.  Myth.) 
A  deified  personilicatiou  of  sleep;  de- 
scribed as  the  sun  ot"  Nox  and  Ere- 
bus. 

Son  of  God.  A  title  in  common  nse 
amonij;  the  Jews  in  the  time  of  our 
Saviour  as  a  designation  of  the  ex- 
pected Messiah.  It  was  assumed  by 
Jesus,  as  expressing  the  peculiar  and 
intimate  relationship  between  himself 
and  the  Father.     See  Matt.  iii.  17. 

Son  of  Man.  A  designation  of  him- 
self made  use  of  by  our  Lord,  who 
was,  "according  to  the  flesh,"  the 
son  of  the  Virgin  ]Mary,  and  the  re- 
puted son  of  Josejjh,  her  husband, 
and  through  them  both  "  of  the  seed 
of  David."  But  commentators  are 
far  from  being  agreed  as  to  the  pre- 
cise import  of  the  term. 

Son  of  the  Last  Man.  A  name 
commonly  given,  in  the  time  of  the 
English  Commonwealth,  to  Charles 
II.,  whose  father,  Charles  I.,  was 
popularly  called  the  "  Last  Man." 
The  designation  is  applied  to  Charles 
IL  in  a  parliamentary  otier  of  reward 
for  his  apprehension.  See  Last 
Man. 

Sons  of  Thunder.     See  Boanerges. 

Sordello  (sof-deMo,  102).  A  celebrat- 
ed I'rovencal  poet  whom  Dante  and 
Virgil  meet  in  Purgatory,  sitting 
alone,  with  a  noble  hauglitiness  of 
as[)ect,  and  eying  them  like  a  lion  on 
the  watch.  On  finding  that  Virgil 
is  his  countryman,  he  springs  forward 
to  embrace  him  with  the  utmost  joy, 
and  accompanies  him  part -way  on 
his  Journey.  Browning  has  used  the 
name  as  the  title  of  a  poem  contain- 
ing an  account  of  Sordello's  progress 
in  experience  and  education  till  he 
reaches  the  stature,  name,  and  fame 
of  poet.  He  chooses  him  as  in  some 
sort  an  ideal  man,  who  is  identified 
with  the  cause  of  liberty  and  hu- 
man progress,  and  exemplifies  the 
highest  and  best  results  of  human 
culture.     See  Farinata. 

So'si-a  (so'shi-a,  23).  A  servant  of 
Amphitr\'on,  or  Amphitruo,  in  Plau- 
tus's  play  of  this  name.  Mercury, 
availing  himself  of  his  power  to  as- 


sume disguises  at  pleasure,  figures, 
in  the  play  as  the  doulde  of  Sosia, 
who  i>,  in  con^e(luence.  led  t()  doubt 
his  own  identity.  Hence,  by  an  ex- 
tension of  the  term,  the  name  is  given 
to  any  person  who  closely  resembles 
another.  Moliere  and  Drydeu  have 
both  adapted  the  "  Amphitruo "  of 
Plautus  to  the  modern  stage. 

My  right  honorable  father,  sciuling  for  this 
other  Sosia  .  .  .  from  France,  insisted,  in  the 
face  of  propriety,  that  he  should  reside  in  Ills 
house,  and  share,  in  all  respeets,  in  the  op- 
portunities of  education  by  which  the  real 
Sosia  .  .  .  hath  profited  in  such  uneonimon 
decree.  Sir  IV.  Scott. 

Again  the  book  is  brought,  and  in  the  line 
just  above  that  in  which  Tie  is  about  to  print 
"his  second,  name  (his  rescript),  his  first  name 
(scarce  dry)  looks  out  upon  him  like  another 
Sosia,  or  as  if  a  man  should  suddenly  en- 
counter his  own  duplicate.         Charles  Latnb. 

So'si-1  (so'shi-1,  23).  The  name  of  two 
brothers,  famous  booksellers  at  Rome 
in  the  time  of  Horace. 

Sotenville,  M.  de  (mos'e-o'  du  so'- 
t6»'vel',  43,  02).  [That  is.  Fool  m  the 
city.]  A  pompous,  stolid,  provincial 
French  noble  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, who  figures  in  Moliere's  comedy 
of  "  George  Dandin,"  and  who  ag- 
gravates his  intrinsic  insignificance 
and  vacuity  by  aping  the  manners 
of  the  court  nubltsse.  See  Danuin, 
George. 

South,  Esquire.  A  name  given  to 
the  Archduke  Charles  of  Austria,  in 
Arbuthnot's  humorous  "  History  of 
John  Bull." 

South  Britain.  A  popular  designa- 
tion of  England  and  Wales,  or  all  that 
part  of  the  island  of  Great  liritain 
lying  south  of  Scotland,  which  is 
often  called  North  Britain. 

South  Sea.  The  name  originally  given, 
and  still  sometimes  applied,  to  the 
Pacific  Ocean,  which  was  discovered 
in  1513  by  V'asco  NuHez  de  Balboa, 
the  Spanish  governor  of  Darien. 
Crossing  the  isthmus  on  an  exploring 
expedition,  he  arrived,  on  the  29th  of 
September,  at  a  mountain,  from  the 
suninn't  of  which,  hinkuui  south,  he 
beheld  the  boundless  exjjanse  of  the 
ocean  stretched  out  before  him,  while 
the  northern  portion  was  shut  out 
from  his  view.  He  named  it,  there- 
fore, Mar  del  Sur,  or  the  South  Sea. 


Hnd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


sou 


350 


SPE 


South-Sea  Bubble.  A  name  popu- 
lar! v  applit'd  to  a  stupendous  stock- 
jobfiing  selieuxL',  in  Kii<;Iand,  in  1720, 
characterized  as  "  the  most  enormous 
fabric  of  national  delusion  ever  raised 
amon,irst  an  industrious  and  prudent 
people."  The  8outh-8ea  Company, 
a  trading  corporation,  having  ex- 
clusive privileges,  otiered  to  buy  uj) 
the  government  annuities,  with  a 
view  to  the  reduction  of  the  public 
debt.  The  proposal  was  accepted; 
great  numbers  of  people  hastened  to 
invest  in  the  stock  of  the  comyja- 
ny,  which  rose  to  an  extraordinary 
premium,  when,  on  tiie  29th  of  Sep- 
tember, this  greatest  of  bubbles  burst. 
Merchants,  lawyers,  clergymen,  phy- 
sicians, passed  from  their  dreams  of 
fabulous  wealth,  and  from  their  wont- 
ed comforts,  into  penury.  "  Some 
died  of  broken  hearts;  others  re- 
moved to  remote  parts  of  the  world, 
and  never  i-eturned." 

Spanish  Bru'tus.  A  surname  con- 
ferred upon  Alphonso  Perez  de  Guz- 
man (1258- l."i2()),  a  distinguished 
general  of  Spain.  It  is  related,  that, 
on  one  occasion,  while  besieged  wit  ii- 
in  the  walls  of  a  town,  he  was  threat- 
ened by  the  enemy  with  the  death 
of  his  son,  who  had  been  taken  pris- 
oner, unless  he  would  surrender  the 
place;  to  which  he  replied  by  throw- 
ing a  dagger  over  the  walls,  and  re- 
fusing to  surrender.  This  incident  has 
been  dramatized  by  Lope  de  Vega. 

Spanish  En'ni-us.  A  title  given  to 
Juan  de  Mena  (1412-14.56),  who  owes 
his  chief  liame  to  his  having  been  the 
first  who  introduced  into  Castilian 
verse  some  of  the  retinements  of 
Italian  taste. 

Spanish  Fury-  {Ifi<t-)  A  name  given 
to  the  attack  upon  Antwerp  by  the 
Spaniards,  Nov.  4,  1570,  which  re- 
sulted in  the  pillage  and  burning  of 
the  ])lace,  and  a  great  massacre  of 
the  inhabitants. 

Spanish  Jack.  A  noted  felon  exe- 
cuted at  Maidstone  (Eng.),  April  18, 
1756,  for  stealing.  He  was  born  at 
Alicant  in  Spain,  and  his  real  name 
was  Bli  Gonzales.  He  afterwards 
•went  to  England,  where  he  had  con- 


nections, who  induced  him  to  change 
his  name  to  John  Synnnonds. 

Spanish  Main.  A  name  popularly 
given,  by  the  early  English  voyagers 
and  the  English  colonists  of  the  West 
India  Islands,  to  the  coast  along  the 
north  part  of  South  America,  from 
the  Mosquito  territory  to  the  Leeward 
Islands.  The  term  is  otten  errone- 
ously thought  to  apply  to  the  Carib- 
bean Sea,  —  a  double  mistake,  tor  tlie 
word  main  is  not  used,  in  this  phrase, 
as  .seems  to  have  been  supposed,  in 
the  sense  of  UKun  ocean,  but  of  main 
land;  and  besides,  the  Caribbean  Sea, 
though  commonly  regarded  as  a  por- 
tion of  the  Atlantic,  is  not,  properly 
speaking,  a  part  of  the  main  ocean, 
having  almost  the  character  of  an 
inland  sea. 

A  piirrot,  from  the  SpanisJi  Main, 
Full  young  and  early  ca^eil  came  o'er, 

With  hVijrht  winps,  to  "the  bleak  domain 
Of  MuUa's  shore.  Cainjjbell. 

4Q=   In    the    following    citations,  the 
name  is  incorrectly  used  :  — 

Then  up  and  spake  an  old  sailor, 

Had  sailed  the  .S/ianixh  Mciiii, 
*'  I  prav  thee  put  into  yonder  port, 

For  I  fear  the  hurricane."         LongfeUov). 

Under  which  diabolical  ensign  he  was  car- 

rj'ing  me  and  little  Em'ly  to  the  Spanish  Main 

to  be  drowned.  1/irken.i. 

Spanish  Moliere  (mo'le  ef').  A  name 
given  to  Leandro  Fernandez  ^Nloratin 
(1760-1828 ),  a  Spanish  dramatic  poet, 
w4io  took  Moliere  for  his  model. 

Spasmodic  School.  A  name  which 
has  been  given  in  ridicule  to  certain 
])opular  authors  of  the  present  day, 
whose  productions  are,  in  a  greater 
or  less  degree,  distinguished  by  an 
overstrained  and  unnatural  style,  and 
abound,  more  or  less,  in  extravagant 
and  forced  conceits.  In  this  school 
are  commonly  included  Carlyle,  Gil- 
fillan,  Bailey  (the  author  of  "  Fes- 
tus"),  and  Alexander  Smith;  and 
these  writers  have  l)een  cleverly  sat- 
irized in  "Firmilian,  a  Spasmodic 
Tjagedy,"  by  Professor  "William  Ed- 
monstoune  Aytoun. 

Specter  of  the  Brock'en.  [Ger. 
Bi'i>fl-tn(j(!ii)enst.'\  A  singular  colos- 
sal apparition  seen  in  the  clouds,  at 
certain  times  of  the  day,  by  those 
who  ascend  the  Brockeii,  or  Blocks- 
berj;,   the   highest   mountain   of  the 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  rrou-.taciation,"   with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


SPE 


351 


STA 


Hartz  range,  in  Prussian  Saxony. 
This  remarkable  optical  })henonienon 
—  which  was  tbrnierly  regarded  with 
superstitious  adniiratiun  tmd  awe  — 
is  merely  a  gigantic  ))rojecti()u  of  the 
observer's  shadow  upon  misty  clouds 
opposite  to  tlie  rising  or  the  setting 
sun. 

Speed.  A  clownish  servant  of  Valen- 
tine, and  an  inveterate  punster,  in 
Shakespeare's  *'  Two  Gentlemen  of 
Verona." 

Spans,  Sir  Patrick  (spenss).  The 
hero  of  a  famous  old  Scottish  ballad, 
represented  as  having  been  sent  in 
the  winter  time,  by  the  king  of  Scot- 
land, on  a  mission  to  Norway,  and 
as  having  been  lost,  Avith  his  whole 
crew,  in  mid-ocean,  on  the  homeward 
voyage. 

4tg="  "  The  name  of  Sir  Patrick  Spens 
is  not  mentioned  in  liistory  ;  but  I  am 
able  to  state  th;i  t  tradition  litis  preserved 
it.  In  the  little  island  of  Papa  Stronsay, 
one  of  the  Orcadian  group,  lying  over 
against  Norway,  there  is  a  larjj;e  grave,  or 
tiimidi(.<!,  which  has  been  known  to  the 
inhabitants,  from  time  immemorial,  as 
'  the  grave  of  Sir  Patrick  Spens.'  .  .  .  The 
people  know  nothing  beyond  the  tradi- 
tional appellation  of  the  spot,  and  they 
have  no  legend  to  tell.  Spens  is  a  Scot- 
tish, not  a  Scandinavian,  name.  Is  it, 
then,  a  forced  conjecture,  tliat  the  ship- 
wreck took  place  off  the  iron-bound  coast 
of  the  northern  islands,  which  did  not 
then  belong  to  the  crown  of  Scotland?  " 

Aytoun. 

Sphinx.  [Gr.  ^jt^y^.]  (Gr.  if  Earn. 
Myth.)  A  monster  described  as  hav- 
ing a  human  head  and  the  body  of  a 
lion,  and  sometimes  as  having  wings 
al.so.  It  used  to  propose  the  follow- 
ing riddle  to  travelers,  and  tear  in 
pieces  those  who  could  not  solve  it : 
"  What  is  that  which  has  one  voice, 
and  at  first  four  feet,  then  two  feet, 
and  at  la.st  three  feet,  and  when  it 
has  most  is  weakest?"  Oedipus  ex- 
plained the  enigma  by  saying  that  it 
was  man,  w^ho,  when  an  infant,  creeps 
on  all  fours,  when  a  man,  goes  on 
two  feet,  and,  when  old,  uses  a  staff, 
a  third  foot;  and  the  Sphinx  there- 
upon destroyed  herself. 

Bpid'i-reen'.  An  imaginary  ship 
sometimes  mentioned  bv  sailors. 


Spo'rus  (9).  A  name  under  which 
i'ope  satirizes  John,  Lord  Hervey,  in 
the  "  Prologue  to  the  Satires."  See 
LoHD  Fanny. 

Let  .'ijionts  tremble.  —  "What  !  that  thing  of 

silk;' 
S/ioruK,  tliat  mere  white  curd  of  asses'  milk? 
Satire  or  sense,  ahis!  can  Sjiorus  feel  ? 
Wlio  hreiiks  a  butterfly  upon  awheel?    J'ope. 

Squab,  Poet.  See  Poet  Squab. 

Square,  Mr.  The  name  of  a  "  phi- 
losojjher"  in  Fielding's  novel  "The 
liistory  of  Tom  Jones,  a  Foundling." 

Squeers.  An  ignorant,  brutal,  avari- 
cious Yorkshire  pedagogue,  in  Dick- 
ens's novel  of  "  Nicholas  Nickleby." 
See  DoTiiEBOYS  Hall. 

Squintum,  Doctor.  See  Doctor 
Sqi'intum. 

Squire  of  Dames.  A  personage  in- 
troduced by  Spenser  in  the  "  Faery 
Queen  "  (Bk.  ill.,  canto  vii.,  stanza 
51,  etseq.),  and  whose  curious  adven- 
tures are  there  recorded.  The  term 
is  often  used  to  express  a  person  de- 
voted to  the  fair  sex. 

My  honest  Squire  of  Dames,  I  see 
Thou  art  of  her  privy  council.        31assinger. 

And  he,  the  wandering  Squire  of  Dames, 
Forgot  his  Columbella's  claims. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Squire  "Western.  See  Western, 
Squike. 

Squob,  Poet.     See  Poet  Squab. 

Stag'i-rite.  [Gr.  *o  ^TayetptTTj^,  Lat. 
St(i(jirites.^  A  surname  given  to 
Ari.'^totlp  (B.  c.  38-1-332),  from  Sta- 
gira  in  Macedonia,  the  place  of  his 
biith.  [Often  improperly  written 
S  tagy  r  i  te.] 

See  physic  be;a:  the  Stagirite's  defense; 

See  nietaphysic  call  for  aid  on  sense.       Popt, 

Plato's  lore  sublime. 
And  all  the  wisdom  of  the  Stagitite 
Enriched  and  beautified  his  studious  mind. 

]f'or<lsu-<>rtfu 

Staph'y-la.  One  of  the  flmvitilis  ptr- 
sorue  in  Plautus's  "  Aulularia." 

Starvation  Dun-das'.  Henry  Dun- 
das,  the  first  Lord  Melville;  —  so 
called  from  having  first  introduced 
the  word  stdrratian  into  the  English 
language,  in  a  speech  in  parliament, 
in  1775,  on  an  American  debate. 

Starveling.  A  tailor  in  Shakespeare's 
*'  JMidsummer-Xijiht's  Dream." 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Bules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ST  A 


352 


STO 


St|-ti'ra  (0).  The  heroine  of  La  Cal- 
preiiedc's  romance  of  "  Cassandra." 
She  was  the  (huighter  of  Darius,  and 
the  most  pcrti'ct  workmanship  of  the 
gods.  Oroondates  became  enamored 
of  her,  and,  after  many  adventures, 
succeeded  in  obtaining  her  hand. 

S.  T.  C.  The  initials  of  Samuel  Taylor 
Coleridge  (1772-18.34),  the  celebrated 
English  ])oet  and  philosopher.  He 
is  sometimes  designated  by  them  in- 
stead of  his  name. 

Stee'nie.  A  nickname  for  Stephen, 
given  by  James  I.  to  George  Villiers, 
Duke  of  Buckingham,  in  allusion  to 
his  rine  face.  "  And  it  was,"  says 
Hearne,  "  a  very  singular  compli- 
ment to  the  splendor  of  his  beauty, 
having  reference  to  Acts  vi.  15,  where 
it  is  said  of  St.  Stephen,  '  All  that 
sat  in  the  council,  looking  steadfastly 
on  him,  saw  his  face  as  it  had  been 
the  face  of  an  angel.'  " 

«teiaa.  [Lat.,  the  star.]  1.  A  name 
given  by  Sir  Philip  Sidney,  in  a 
series  of  exquisitely  beautiful  ama- 
tory poems  entitled  "  Astrophel  and 
Stella,"  to  Penelope  Devereux, — 
afterward  Lady  Rich,  —  at  one  time 
the  loadstar  of  his  affections,  and 
generally  admitted  to  have  been  the 
finest  woman  of  her  age.  She  was 
a  sister  of  Lord  Essex.     See  Astko- 

PHEL. 

2.  A  poetical  name  given  by  Swi'^t 
to  Miss  Esther  Johnson,  Avhose  tutor 
he  was,  and  whom,  in  1716,  he  pri- 
vately married.  The  name  Esther 
\related  to  the  Greek  iarryp,  Lat. 
aster)  signifies  a  star. 

Sten'tor.  [Gr.  Srevrajp.]  (  Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Mijth.)  A  Grecian  herald  in  the 
Trojan  war,  whom  Homer  describes 
as  "great-hearted,  brazen- voiced 
Stentor,  accustomed  to  shout  as  loud 
as  fifty  other  men." 

With  this  desiicn,  he  raised  up  his  ciulirel 
fiir  tlie  defense  of  his  head,  and,  betakinjj  him- 
self to  his  heels,  began  toroarforhelp  with  tlie 
lungs  of  a  Stentor.  Smollett. 

Steph'a-no.  1.  A  drunken  butler,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Tempest." 

2.  A  servant  to  Portia,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Merchant  of  Venice." 

Stern,  Daniel  (4).    A  nuin  de  plume 


of  Marie  de  Flavign}-,  Countess  of 
Agoult,  a  i)opular  Li'ench  authoress 
of  the  present  century. 

St6r'o-pes.  [Gr.  SrepoTTT)?.]  {Gr.  <^ 
Rum.  Myth.)  One  of  the  Cyclops. 
See  Cyclops. 

Stewart,  "Walking.  See  Walking 
Stewart. 

Sthe'no.  [Gr.  20e./ai.]  (  Gr.  rf  Rom. 
Mljtlt.)  One  of  the  three  Gorgons. 
See  GoKGONS. 

Stich,  Tom.  The  subject  of  an  old 
tract,  or  ''  merry  history,"  composed 
in  the  seventeenth  century.  It  con- 
sists of  a  collection  of  anecdotes  re- 
specting a  3^oung  tailor  who  was  a 
favorite  with  the  ladies. 

Stiles,  John.     See  Styles,  Tom. 

Stink^o-ma-lee'.  A  cant  name  for 
London  University  ;  originated  by 
Theoilore  Hook.  He  gave  it  this 
appellation  for  the  double  reason  that 
some  ([uestion  about  Trhicomdlee  (in 
Ceylon)  was  agitated  at  the  time,  and 
that  the  institution  was  in  ill  odor 
Avith  the  members  of  other  Univer- 
sities because  it  admitted  students 
from  all  denominations. 

Only  look  at  Stinkomnlee  and  King's  Col- 
lege! 'Activity,  union,  craft,  indomitable  per- 
severance on  the  one  side:  indolence,  inde- 
cision, internal  distrust  and  jealousies,  calf- 
like simplicity,  and  cowardice  intolerable  on 
the  other.  Noctes  Anibrosianue. 

Stock'well  Ghost.  A  name  given  to 
a  su])])osed  supernatural  agent  who 
produced  a  train  of  extraordinary 
distmbances  in  the  village  of  Stock- 
well,  near  London,  in  the  year  1772, 
by  which  the  inhabitants  were  thrown 
into  the  utmost  consternation.  The 
author  of  the  imp^isture,  a  servant- 
girl  l)y  the  name  of  Anne  Robinson, 
Avas  at  length  detected,  and  the  magic 
she  employed  found  to  be  only  an 
unusual  dexterity  aided  by  the  sim- 
plicity and  credulity  of  the  specta- 
tors. ' 

Stonewall  Jackson.  A  sobriquet 
given,  during  the  great  American 
Rebellion,  to  Thomas  Jonathan  Jack- 
son (1824-1803),  a  general  in  the 
service  of  the  insm-gents.  The  ap^ 
pellation  had  its  origin  in  an  expres- 
sion used  by  the  rebel  General  Bee, 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanation^ 


STO 


353 


STY 


on  trvinp^  to  rallv  his  men  at  the 
battle'of  Bull  Kuii,  July  21,  ISiil,— 
"There  is  Jackson,  standing  like  a 
stone  Willi."'  From  that  day  he  was 
known  as  "  Stone  wall  Jackson,"  and 
his  conunand  as  the  '"  Stonewall  Bri- 
gade." 

Storm-and-Stress  Period.  [Ger. 
Stiir)H-i{ii(l-l)rmt<j  Ztit.\  In  the  lit- 
erary history  of  (ieiinany,  the  name 
given  t(t  a  period  of  great  intellectual 
convulsion,  during  the  last  quarter 
of  the  last  century,  when  the  nation 
began  to  assert  its  freedom  from  the 
fetters  of  an  artificial  literary  spirit. 
Goethe's  "Goetz  von  Berlichingen  " 
gave  a  powerful  impulse  to  this  move- 
ment, Avhich  was  increased  by  the 
appearance  of  Schiller's  "•  Robbers." 
The  period  derives  its  name  from  a 
drama  of  Klinger  (1753-18-il ),  whose 
high-wrought  tragedies  and  novels 
reflect  the  excitement  of  the  time. 

J8fg="  "  The  wisdom  and  extravagance 
of  the  age  imited  in  one  stre.im.  The 
masterly  criticisms  of  Lessing,  the  enthu- 
siasm for  Shakespeare,  the  mania  for  Os- 
siau  and  the  Northern  mythology,  the  re- 
vival of  ballad  literature  and  parodies  of 
Kousseau,  all  worked  in  one  rebellious 
current  against  established  authority. 
There  was  one  universal  shout  for  '  na- 
ture.' With  the  young,  nature  seemed 
a  compound  of  volcanoes  and  moonlight. 
To  be  insurgent  and  sentimental,  explo- 
sive and  hichrymose,  were  the  true  signs 
of  genius."  Lewes. 

S£^  "  Great  indeed  was  the  woe  and 
fury  of  these  Power-men  [Kraftmantier]. 
Beauty  to  their  mind  seemed  synonymous 
■with  strength.  All  passion  were  poetical, 
80  it  were  but  fiei'ce  enough.  Their  head 
moral  virtue  was  Pride ;  th^ivbeau  ideal  of 
Manhood  was  some  transcript  of  Milton's 
Devil.  Often  they  inverted  Boliiighroke"s 
plan,  and,  instead  of  '  patronizing  Provi- 
dence," did  directly  the  opposite,  raging 
mth  extreme  animation  against  Fate  in 
general,  because  it  enthralled  free  vir- 
tue, and,  with  clenched  hands  or  sound- 
ing shields,  hurling  defiance  towards  th« 
vault  of  heaven."  Cnrlyle. 

Btormy  Cape,  or  Cape  of  Storms. 
[Port.  C'ibo  Tormentitso.']  The  name 
originally  given  to  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope,  in  1486,  by  Bartholomew  Diaz, 
the  celebrated  Portuguese  navigator. 
Its  present  name,  for  better  augury, 
was  substituted  by  King  John  II. 


Jew  TTirsch,  run  into  for  low  Rmngsrlinf 
piupose.s,  had  l)Li'n  a  ( >(/«  <>/ .Sloniis,  ditiicuH 
to  wuatlier;  but  the  continual  lee-sliore  wer« 
tl\ose  French,— with  a  heavy  jjale  on,  and 
one  of  the  ratihest  pilots!  L'urlyle. 

Strap,  Hugh.  A  simple,  generous, 
and  faithtul  friend  and  adherent  of 
Roderick  iiandoin,  in  Smollett's  ac- 
couiit  of  the  adventures  of  that 
notorious  personage.     See  Random, 

RoDKKlCK. 

j^^  '•  We  believe  there  are  few  readers 
■who  are  not  disgusted  with  the  miserable 
reward  assigned  to  t^trap  in  the  closing 
ciiapter  of  the  novel.  Five  huudred 
pounds  (scarce  the  value  of  the  goods  he 
had  presented  to  his  master)  and  the 
hand  of  a  reclaimed  street-walker,  evea 
when  addeil  to  a  Highland  farm,  seem 
but  a  poor  recompense  for  his  faithful 
and  disinterested  attachment." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Streph'on.  The  name  of  a  shepherd 
in  Sir  Philip  Sidney's  "Arcadia,"  in 
love  with  the  beautiful  shepherdess 
Urania;  used  by  the  poets  of  a  later 
day  as  the  naiiie  of  any  lover. 

Strep/ion  and  Chloe  lanirnisli  apart;  join  in 
a  rapture;  and  prescntty  Von  Iiear  that  Chloe 
is  crying,  and  Strepkou  has  broken  his  crook 
across  her  back.  Thackeray. 

Strvild'brugs.  The  name  of  certain 
wretched  inhabitants  of  Luggnagg, 
described  in  SwitVs  imaginary  "Trav- 
els "  of  Lemuel  Gulliver  as  persons 
who  never  die. 

Now  it  came  to  pass,  that,  alwut  this  time, 
the  renowned  Wouter  Van  Twillcr,  full  of 
years  and  honors,  and  council-dinner.';,  had 
reached  th'it  jieriod  of  life  and  faculty  whicli, 
according  to  the  great  Gulliver,  entitles  a  man 
to  admission  into  the  ancient  order  of  Striild- 
biiigs.  W.  Irving. 

Sturm  -  und  -  Drang  Zeit  (stoofm- 
obnt-dring  tsit).  See  Stoum-and- 
Stress  Period. 

Styles,  Tom,  alias  John  a-St;yles. 
A  tictitious  character  formerly  made 
use  of  in  actions  of  ejectment,  and 
cc)mmonly  connected  with  John  o' 
Noakes.  See  Noakks,  Jottn  o',  also 
Doe,  John.  [Written  al.so  Tom  a 
S  1 3^  1  e  s,  Tom  o'  Styles,  John 
Styles,  and  John  Stiles.] 

4®="  Tn  the  IMiddle  Ages,  the  phrase 
John  at  .Style  was  in  common  use  to  de- 
note a  plebeian  :  and  it  still  survives  in  a 
slightly  altered  form  in  the  saying,  '  Jack 
Noakes  and  Tom  Sryles.' 

Peter  Stiiyvesant  read  over  this  friendly 
epistle  with  some  such  harmony  of  aspect  as 


■nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 
23 


STY 


354 


SWA 


we  may  suppose  a  crusty  farmer  reads  the 
loving  letter  nxJohn  Stilts,  warniug  hiin  of  an 
action  of  ujectincnt.  W.  Irving. 

I  liiive  no  connection  with  tlie  company 
furthiT  tlmii  giving  them,  for  a  certain  fee  and 
rewurii,  my  ijoor  opinion  us  a  medical  man, 
nreciseiy  iis  I  may  give  it  any  day  to  Jack 
Noakesor  Tom  Stifles.  Lticfceiut. 

lie  [Doetcr  Hurton,  the  "Doctor  Slop"  of 
Sterne's  "  Tristram  Shandy  "]  •  •  •  ^'as  often 
seen  along  the  Yorkshire  bndle-roads,  thus 
strangely  uioniited,  hurrying  away  to  assist 
the  ladies  of  Tom  o'  Styles  or  John  Noakes, 
in  their  illness.  Ferci)  Fitzgerald. 

Stym-pha'li-an  Birds.  See  Her- 
cules. 

Styx.  [Gr.  2t.^.  from  arvytlv,  to  hate.] 
(Gr.  (}  Rom.  Myth.)  The  ()rincipal 
river  of  the  lower  world  The  gods 
hel<l  it  in  such  veneration  that  they 
were  accustomed  to  swear  by  it,  and 
such  an  oath  was  inviolable. 

Subtle  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doclar  Sublills.] 
A  name  £i;iven  to  Duns  Scotus,  a  fa- 
mous schoolman  of  the  thirteenth 
and  fourteenth  centuries,  celebrated 
for  his  '•  keenness  and  versatility  in 
detecting  invisible  distinctions,  in 
miiltiplyino-  hypotheses  which  dif- 
fered from  each  other  only  in  some 
verbal  incidents,  in  untwisting  every 
thought  and  proposition  as  by  an  in- 
tellectual prism,  in  speculating  upon 
themes  above  the  reach  of  human 
knowledge,  and  in  the  multiplication 
of  ingenious  theories  without  proof 
to  sustain  them  or  utility  to  recom- 
mend them." 

Sucker  State.  A  cant  name  given, 
in  America,  to  the  State  of  Illinois, 
the  inhabitants  of  which  are  very 
generally  called  Suckei^s,  throughout 
the  West.  The  origin  of  this  term 
is  said  to  be  as  follows :  — 

^C^  ''The  AVestern  prairies  are,  in 
many  places,  full  of  the  holes  made  by 
the  'civtw-fish'  (a  fresh-water  shell-fish, 
pimilar  in  form  to  the  lobster),  which  de- 
8cends  to  the  water  beneath.  In  early 
times,  when  travelers  wended  their  way 
over  these  iuiniense  plains,  they  very 
prudently  provided  themselves  with  a 
lona.  hollow  reed,  and.  when  thirstj', 
thrust  it  into  these  natural  artesians, 
and  thus  easily  supplied  their  longings. 
Thecraw-flsh  well  generally  contains  pure 
water :  and  the  manner  in  which  the 
traveler  drew  forth  the  refreshing  cle- 
ment gave  him  the  name  of  '  Sucker." "' 
Providence  Journal 


Sullen,  Squire.  A  brutal  hu.sband  in 
Fanjuhar's  '*  Country  lilockhead." 

Parson  Barnahas,  Parson  Trnlliber,  Sir 
"Willful  Witwould,  Sir  Francis  Wronghead, 
Squire  Western,  Sf/iiirc  Sullen,  —  such  were 
the  people  who  composed  the  main  strength 
of  the  Tory  party  for  sixty  years  after  the 
Kevdlution.  Jldcuulaij. 

Super     Grammaticam.       A     name 

sometinu's  given  to  Sigismund  (1367- 
1437),  emperor  of  Germany. 

jB®"  ••  At  the  opening  of  the  Council 
[of  Constance.  1414],  he  '  officiated  aa 
deacon,'  at  tually  doing  some  litanying 
'  with  a  surplice  over  him,'  though  Kaiser 
and  King  of  the  Romans,  lint  this  pas- 
sage of  his  opening  speech  is  what  I  rec- 
ollect best  of  him  there  :  '  Right  reverend 
Fathers,  date  operam,  ut  illn  nejnnda 
srhisma  eradiretiir,''  exclaims  Sigisniund, 
intent  on  having  the  Hohemian  Schism 
well  dealt  with,  which  he  reckons  to  be 
of  the  feminine  gender.  To  which  a 
Cardinal  mildly  remarking.  '  Domine, 
schis7?ia  est  generis  nmtrius  '  ( Sriilsmn  is 
neuter,  your  Majesty).  Sigismund  loftily 
replies,  'Ego  sum  Rex  Roi/mnus,  et  super 
grannnalirani ! '  (lam  King  of  the  Ro- 
mans, and  above  grammar  I )  —  for  which 
reason  I  call  him  in  my  Note-books  Sigis- 
niund Super  Grnviviaticam.  to  distin- 
guish him  in  the  imbroglio  of  the  Kai- 
sers.*' Carlyle. 

Surface,  Charles.  A  character  in 
Sheridan's  comedy,  "  The  School  for 
Scandal ;  "  represented  as  an  extrava- 
gant rake,  but  generous,  warm-heart- 
ed, and  fascinating. 

Surface,  Joseph.  A  mean  hypocrite, 
in  Sheridan's  comedy,  "  The  School 
for  Scandal,"  who  affects  great  se- 
riousness, gravitv,  and  sentimental- 

Surtur  (soof'toof).  {Scand.  ^fyth.)  A 
formidable  giant,  who,  with  flames 
collected  from  Muspelheim,  is  to  set 
tire  to  the  universe  at  Kagnaruk. 
See  Ragnauok. 

Surya  (soo^re-S).  {Hindu  Mijth.)  The 
god  of  the  sun. 

Swan,  The  Mantuan.  See  Mantu- 
AN  Swan. 

Swan  of  Avon,  Sweet.  A  name 
conferred  upon  Shakespeare  by  lien 
.lonson,  in  some  well-known  com- 
nu-ndatory  verses  originally  ])retixed 
to  the  second  folio  edition  of  Shake- 
speare's works,  printed  in  1032. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


SWA 


355 


SYM 


Swan  of  cam-brai'  (or  kon'bi-a',  G2). 
A  name  bestowed,  on  account  of 
the  graces  of  his  style,  upon  Kenehm 
(1651-1715),  Archbishoi)  of  Cainbrai, 
and  a  writer  of  fervid  I'lociuence. 

Swan  of  Lichfield.  A  tith'  i,nveii  to 
Miss  Anna  Seward  (1747-18  J  J),  an 
English  poetess  of  some  distinction. 

Swan  of  Pad'u-|.  A  name  given  to 
Count  Francesco  Algarotti  (1712- 
17(i4),  a  native  of  Venice,  a  man  of 
much  information  and  taste,  and,  in 
his  day,  an  esteemed  writer. 

jgES^  '•  His  respectable  books  on  the  op- 
era and  other  topics  are  now  all  forgotten, 
and  crave  not  to  be  mentioned."    Canyle. 

Swan  of  the  Me-an'der.  A  name 
applied  to  Homer,  on  account  of  the 
harmony  of  his  verse,  and  on  the 
supposition  that  he  was  a  native  of 
Asia  Minor,  of  which  the  Meander  is 
one  of  the  chief  rivers. 

Swedish  Nightingale.  A  name  pop- 
ularly given  to  Jenny  Lind  (Madame 
Goldschmidt,  b.  1821),  a  native  of 
Stockholm,  and  one  of  the  most  cele- 
brated of  female  vocalists. 

Sweet  Singer  of  Israel.  A  title  ap- 
plied to  King  David.  See  Royal 
Psalmist. 

Sweet  Singer  of  the  Temple.  A 
name  often  api)lied  to  George  Her- 
bert (1593-1633),  author  of  "The 
Temple:  Sacred  Poems  and  Private 
Ejaculations,"  and  one  of  the  most 
charming  and  gifted,  though  quaint, 
poets  of  England. 

Swer'ga.  (Hindu  My fh.)  A  terrestrial 
paradise  situated  on  the  summit  of 
Mount  Meru  {q.  v.)\  the  delightful 
abode  of  Indra,  and  a  place  of  fre- 
cjuent  resort  for  the  other  gods. 

Swing.  A  fictitious  and  much-dread- 
ed name  signed  to  incendiary  threats 
in  the  rural  districts  of  England, 
about  fifty  years  ago. 

8wiv'el-ler,  Dick.  A  careless,  light- 
headed fellow  in  Dickens's  novel  of 
the  "Old  Curiosity  Shop,"  whose 
flowery  orations  and  absurdities  of 
quotation  provoke  laughter,  but 
whose  real  kindness  of  heart  enlists 
sympathy. 


Sword  of  God.  A  surname  of  Kha- 
led,  the  coufjueror  of  Syria  between 
the  years  632  and  638.  He  was  so 
called  by  Moliammed. 

Swordaman,  The  Handsome.  See 
Handsome  Swuuus.man. 

Syc'o-rax.  A  foul  witch  mentioned, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Tempest,"  as  the 
dam  of  Prcispero's  slave,  Caliban. 

Juining,  li()WL'\er,  the  various  iiieiits  of  these 
autliors  ^Wycherley,  Vaiibrugli,  Farquhar, 
CoiigreveJ,  as  belonging  to  this  peiiod,  they 
form  a  galaxy  of  eoniie  talent  scarcely  to  be 
matched  in  any  otiier  age  or  country,  and 
wliich  is  only  obscured  by  tiiose  foul  and  im- 
pure mists  which  their  pens,  like  the  raven 
wings  of  Sycorux,  had  brushed  from  forn  and 
bog.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

If  you  had  told  St/corax  that  her  son  Cali- 
ban "was  as  handsome  as  Ai)ollo,  she  would 
have  been  pleased,  witch  as  she  was. 

T/tackeray. 

Sylvanus.     See  Silvanus. 

Symmes's  Hole.  An  enormous  open- 
ing imagined  by  Captain  John  Cleve 
Symmes  (d.  1829),  a  visionary  Amer- 
ican theorizer,  to  exist  in  the  crust 
of  the  earth  at  82°  north  latitude. 
Through  this  opening,  he  thought  a 
descent  might  be  made  into  the  inte- 
rior of  the  globe,  which  he  supposed 
to  be  peopled  with  plants  and  ani- 
mals, and  to  be  lighted  by  two  small 
subterranean  planets,  —  named  Pluto 
and  Proserpine,  —  which  diffused  a 
mild  radiance.  According  to  Hum- 
boldt, Captain  Symmes  publicly  and 
repeatedly  invited  Sir  Humphry  Davy 
and  himself  to  explore  this  under- 
world. 

4®="  It  is  stated  by  the  same  authority, 
that  similar  fantastic  notions  were  enter- 
tained by  the  celebrated  astronomer  Hal- 
ley,  in  tile  hitter  pirt  of  the  seventeenth 
centnry.  and  bv  the  learned  Norwefjian 
satirist  and  dramatist  Holberg,  in  tlie 
eighteenth  century. 

Sym-pleg'a-des.        [Gr.     IvunXrjydBe?, 

the  justling  rocks.]  (6'/'.  cf-  Rom. 
Mytli.)  Two  huge  floating  rocks  in 
the  Euxine  Sea,  which  at  times  were 
driven  together  by  the  winds,  and 
crushed  all  that  came  between  them. 
The  "  Argo,"  however,  succeeded  in 
passing  through  in  safety,  losing  only 
a  portion  of  her  stern :  and  the  isl- 
ands thenceforth  became  flxed.  See 
Arcjo. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


SYN 


356 


SYR 


Syntax,  Doctor.  See  Doctor  Syn- 
tax. 

Sy'pliax.  One  of  the  dramatis  per- 
sunoi  in  Addison's  tragedy  of  "Cato." 

Waverley  .  .  .  could  not  help  burstin};  out 
a-laughins,  as  he  checked  the  propensity  to 
exclaim,  with  Sijphax,— 


"  Cato  'a  a  proper  person  to  intrust 
A  love-tale  with  !"  Sir  JF. 


Scott. 


Sy'rinx  (9).  [Gr.  S.vpiy^.]  {Or.  (f 
Jto/ii.  Myth.)  A  nymph  beloved  by 
Pan,  and  changed  at  her  own  re- 
quest into  a  reed,  of  which  Pan  then 
made  his  Hute. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


TAF 


357 


TAN 


T. 


Tarff.  A  pohriqnet.  for  a  Welshman, 
or  lor  the  Welsh  coHectively.  The 
word  is  a  NWlsli  niisproiiiiiKiatioii  of 
J^  It'!/,  a  diminutive  of  Dnrii/,  one  of 
the  most  co\mnun  of  Welsli  names. 

Tailors  of  Tooley  Street,  The 
Three.  See  Tiikke  Tailous  of 
Tooley  Street. 

Tal'bSt,  Lying  Dick,  A  nickname 
given  to  the  celebrated  Irish  Jaco- 
bite, Tyrconnel,  who  hlled  the  high- 
est ortices  in  Ireland  during  the  last 
period  of  the  rule  o:'  James  II.  and 
the  early  period  of  William  III. 

Talking  Bird,  Singing  Tree,  and 
Yellow  "Water.     See  Pakizade. 

Friedrich  is  loyally  glad  over  his  Toltaire; 
eager  iu  all  ways  to  content  him,  make  him 
happy,  and  keep  him  here,  as  the  Talking 
Jiinl,  the  Suif/inf;  Tree, and  the  Gohlen  Water 
of  intelligent  mankind:  the  glory  of  one's  own 
court,  and  the  euvy  of  the  world.         Carli/le. 

TaTus.  [Gr.  TaAa>?.]  A  brazen  man 
made  by  Vulcan  for  Minos,  to  guard 
the  island  of  Crete.  Spenser,  in  the 
"  Faery  Queen,"  represents  him  as  an 
attendant  upon  Artegal,  and  as  run- 
ning continually  round  th  ■  island  of 
Crete,  administering  warning  and  cor- 
rection to  olfenders  by  hooring  them 
with  an  iron  flail.  His  invulnerable 
frame,  resistless  strength,  and  passion- 
less nature,  typify  the  power  which 
executes  the  decrees  of  Justice  and  the 
mandates  of  magistrates. 

They  [the  Puritans]  went  through  the 
world  like  Sir  Artegal's  iron  man,  Tulfi.i,  with 
his  flail,  crushing  and  tramping  down  op- 
pressors, mingling  with  human  heings,  but 
having  neither  part  nor  lot  in  human  inrtrm- 
ities  ;  insensible  to  fatigue,  to  pleasure,  and 
to  pain;  not  to  be  pierced  by  any  we-ipon,not 
to  be  withstood  by  any  barrier.         Mucuulay, 

Talvi  (taPve»).  A  vom  rle  phime  as- 
sumed by  ]Mrs.  Robinson,  —  wife  of 
Dr.  Edward  Robinson,  —  a  well- 
known  authoress  of  the  present  day, 
born  in  Germany:  formed  from  the 
initials  of  her  maiden  name,  /"herese 
libertine  Zouise  fon  ./akob. 

Tammany,  St.     See  St.  Tammany. 

Tarn  of  the  Cowgate.  A  sobriquet 
given  to   Sir  Thomas  Hamilton   (d. 


1563),  one  of  the  ablest  and   most 
learned  of  Scotch  lawyers. 

Tam'o-ra.  Queen  of  the  (ioths,  in 
Shakespeare's  "Titus  Andronicus." 

Tannhauser,  Sir  (tan'hoi-zcr,  38). 
[Ger.  Rltlti'  Tdiniluiuser.^  A  famous 
legendary  hero  of  Germany,  and  the 
subject  of  an  ancient  ballad  of  the 
same  name.  The  noble  Tannhauser 
is  a  knight  devoted  to  valorous  ad- 
ventures and  to  beautiful  women. 
In  Mantua,  he  wins  the  ati'ection  of 
a  lovely  lady,  Lisaura,  and  of  a 
learned  philosopher,  Hilario,  with 
whom  he  converses  frequently  upon 
supernatural  subjects.  Enchanted 
by  the  marvelous  tales  related  to  him 
by  his  preceptor,  he  wishes  for  noth- 
ing less  than  to  participate  in  the 
love  of  some  beauteous  elementary 
spirit,  who  shall,  for  his  sake,  assume 
the  form  of  mortal  woman.  Hilario 
promises  him  that  he  shall  kiss  even 
Venus  herself,  the  queen  of  love  and 
of  lovers,  if  he  will  have  courage  to 
venture  upon  the  Venusberg.  The 
infatuated  Tannhauser  sets  forth  and 
ascends  the  mountain,  upon  hearing 
of  which  Lisaura  plunges  a  dagger 
into  her  heart.  Long  does  Tannhiiu- 
ser  tarry  among  tiie  delicious  en- 
chantments of  the  Venusberg;  but, 
at  last,  moved  to  repentance,  he  asks 
and  obtains  permission  to  depart. 
He  hastens  to  Mantua,  weeps  over 
the  grave  of  his  gentle  Lisaura,  and 
thence  proceeds  to  Rome,  where  he 
makes  public  confession  of  his  sins  to 
Pope  Urban.  The  pope  refuses  him 
absolution,  saying  he  can  no  more  be 
pardoned  than  the  dry  wand  which 
he  holds  can  bud  forth  and  bear 
green  leaves.  Tannhiiuser,  driven  to 
despair,  flees  from  Rome,  and  vainly 
seeks  his  former  preceptor,  Hilario. 
At  this  juncture,  Venus  appears  be- 
fore him,  and,  with  seductive  smiles, 
lures  him  back  to  the  mountain,  there 
to  remain  until  the  day  of  judgment. 
Meanwhile,  at  Rome  the  dry  wand 
has  sprouted  and  borne  green  leaves. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  KuleR  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


TAN 


358 


TEA 


TTrban,  alarmed  at  this  miracfe,  sends 
niessfiigers  in  slurIi  of  tlie  aiiliai)])V 
knight ;  but  lie  is  nuwhciv  to  be  I'uund. 

M:S"  This  TaunhiusiT  legend  is  very 
popular  in  Germany,  and  is  often  allud- 
ed to  by  fiertnari  writers.  Tieek,  in  his 
''  Phantasus,'"  has  made  it  the  subject 
of  a  narrative,  and  Wagner  ot  a  very 
celebrated  opera.  The  name  of  the 
trusty  Eikhardt  is  frequently  joined 
with  that  of  Tannhduser,  as  a  com  pan- 
ion,  and  by  some  they  are  considered  to 
be  identical.  See  EcKu.iRDX,  Tub;  Faith- 
ful. 

Tan'ta-lus.  [Gr.  Ta^raAos.]  ( Gr.  if 
litim.  MijlJi.)  A  son  of  Jupiter,  and 
king  of  Lydia,  Phrvgia,  or  Pajjhla- 
gonia;  piuiished  in  the  infernal  re- 
gions with  in.<atiable  hunger  and 
thirst,  and  placed  up  to  his  chin  in 
■water,  under  an  overhanging  fruit- 
tree;  but  whenever  he  attempted  to 
drink  or  eat,  the  water  or  iruit  re- 
treated from  his  lips.  His  crime  is 
differently  stated  :  the  common  ac- 
count is,  that,  to  test  the  omniscience 
of  the  gods,  he  .served  up  the  limbs 
of  his  son  Pelops  (see  Pelops)  at  a 
banquet  to  which  he  had  invited 
them  ;  some,  however,  say  that  he 
divulged  secrets  which  Jove  had 
confidentially  communicated  to  him; 
others  allege  that  he  stole  nectar  and 
ambrosia  from  the  table  of  the  gods, 
and  gave  them  to  his  friends;  while 
others  again  attribute  to  him  inordi- 
nate pride,  and  the  possession  of  too 
great  wealth.  The  punishment  of 
Tantalus  has  passed  into  a  proverb, 
and  from  it  we  have  derived  the 
word  tantdUzt,  that  is,  to  hold  out 
prospects  or  hopes  which  cannot  be 
realized. 

Tapley,  Mark.  The  body-servant 
of  Martin  Chuzzlewit,  in  Dickens's 
novel  of  this  name:  noted  for  his  irre- 
pressible jollity,  which  always  showed 
Itself  most  when  his  affairs  were  at 
the  worst. 

Charles  fVri.  of  Francel.  who  was  the  Mark 
Taple'i  of  kines.  bore  himself  with  his  usual 
jollity  under  this  afflicting  news. 

Rev.  John  White. 

Tap'per-tit,  Simon.     An  ambitious  I 
and  conceited  apprentice  in  Dickens's 
novel  of  "  Barnaby  Kudge." 

Tar't$-rus.     [Gr.  Taprapo?.]     {Gr.  4' 


Rom.  Mj/fh.)  The  infernal  regions, 
or,  acc(jrding  to  some,  that  part  of 
them  where  the  impious  and  guilty 
were  punished  for  their  crimes. 

Tar-tufife'  [Fr.  Tartufe  (taFtuf, 
34  )J  A  common  nickname  for  a  hyp- 
ocritical impostor,  or  knave,  who  uses 
the  garb  of  religion  to  cover  his  de- 
ceit. It  is  derived  from  a  celebrated 
comedy  of  the  same  name  by  Mo- 
liere,  in  which  the  hero,  a  hypocrit- 
ical priest,  is  so  called.  Some  say 
that  the  character  of  Tartutte  depicts 
the  cont'essor  of  Louis  XIV.,  Pere 
La  Chaise,  whom  Moliere  once  saw 
eating  truflles  (Fr.  tnrtvfes.  It.  tnr- 
iuji)  with  great  relish.  Great  oppo- 
sition was  made  to  the  appearance 
of  the  play;  but  at  length,  in  lfi67, 
Moliere  succeeded  in  bringing  it  on 
the  stage  ;  and  for  three  months 
"Tartutte"  was  performed  uninter- 
ruptedly, and  with  great  applause. 
A  comedy  under  the  title  of  "  Lady 
Tartutte"  has  been  brought  out  in 
Paris  with  success  by  Mme.  Delphine 
de  Girardin. 

All  types  of  all  characters  march  through 
all  fables:  tremblers  and  boasters;  victims  and 
bullies  ;  dupes  and  knaves  ;  .  .  .  7'artujfes 
wearing  virtuous  clothing  ;  lovers  and  their 
trials,  their  bUndness,  their  folly  and  con- 
stancy. 'Thackeray. 

Swiss  Paehe,  on  the  other  hand,  sits  sleek- 
headed,  frugal;  the  wonder  of  his  own  alley, 
and  even  of  neighboring  ones,  for  humility 
of  mind,  and  a  thouglit  deeper  than  most 
men's;  sit  there,  Tartuffe,  till  wanted! 

Carlyle. 

Tattle.  A  character  in  Congreve's 
comedy,  "Love  for  Love;"  repre- 
sented as  a  half-witted  beau,  vain  of 
his  amours,  yet  valuing  himself  for 
his  secrecy. 

Teacher  of  Germany.  A  name 
often  applied  to  Philip  ^Melanchthon 
( 14-97-1 5G0),  the  celebrated  reformer, 
who  was  so  greatly  admired  as  an 
instructor  that  students  flocked  to 
him  from  all  parts  of  Germany,  and, 
indeed,  from  almost  every  portion  of 
Europe. 

Tearless  Battle.  See  B.\ttle,  The 
Tearless. 

Tear-sheet,  Doll.  A  .^trumpet,  in  the 
Second  Part  of  Shakespeare's  ''  King 
Henrv  lY." 


0^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


TEA 


359 


TER 


Seigneur  and  shoe-black,  duchess  and  Doll 
Tear-sheet,  flung  pell-inell  into  a  heap,  ranked 
thumst'lves  according  to  method.  Carli/tc. 

Tea'zle  Lady  (ce'zl).  The  heroine 
of  Sheridan's  comedy,  "The  School 
for  .Scandal,"  and  the  wife  of  Sir 
Peter  Ti-azle,  an  old  gentleman  who 
marries  late  in  life.  She  is  repre- 
sented as  beint;  "  a  lively  and  inno- 
cent, though  imprudent,  country  girl, 
transplantetl  into  tlie  midst  of  all  that 
can  bewilder  and  endanger  her,  but 
with  still  enough  of  the  purity  of 
rural  life  about  her  heart  to  keep  the 
blight  of  the  world  from  settling  upon 
it  permanently." 

Tea'zle,  Sir  Peter.  A  character  in 
Sheridan's  play,  "  The  School  for 
Scandal;  "  husband  of  Lady  Teazle. 

Spite  and  enmity  tliinly,  disguised  by  senti- 
ments as  benevolent  and  noble  as  those  which 
Sir  Peter  Teazle  admired  in  Mr.  Joseph  Sur- 
face. Macaulaij. 

Tel'a-mSn.  [Gr.  TeAajuoii/.]  {Gr.  if 
Jidiii.  Afifth.)  An  Argonaut,  son  of 
VEacus,  brother  of  Peleus,  father  of 
Ajax  and  Teucer,  and  king  of  Sal- 
amis,  lie  was  the  lirst  to  scale  the 
walls  of  Troy  when  Hercules  took 
that  city  in  the  reign  of  Laomedon. 
He  also  took  part  in  the  famous  (Jaly- 
donian  hunt,  for  a  notice  of  which  see 
]Mele.\gek. 

Te-lem'a-chus.  [Gr.  TrjAeVaxo?.]  ( Gr. 
(/•  Rtuii.  Mi/(/i.)  The  only  son  of 
Ulysses  and  Penelope.  After  the  fall 
of  Troy,  he  went  in  quest  of  his  father, 
accompanied  by  ^Minerva  in  the  form 
of  Mentor. 

Tel'fer,  Jamie.  The  hero  of  a  Scot- 
tish ballad  which  contains  a  spirited 
account  of  one  of  the  forays  so  com- 
mon on  the  border  during  the  reigns 
of  Mary  and  James  VT. 

Tel'lus.  {Rom.  Mijfh.)  A  personifica- 
tion of  the  earth,  viewed  in  relation 
to  its  productiveness.  [Called  also 
Term .  ] 

Tem'pe.  [Gr.  TewTrrj.]  A  romantic 
valley  between  Mount  Olympus  and 
Mount  Ossa,  in  Greece,  through  which 
the  Peneus  escapes  into  the  sea. 

They  would  have  thought,   who  heard  the 
strain, 
They  saw,  in    Tempe's  vale,  her  native 
maids. 


Amidst  the  festal-sounding  shades, 
To  sonic  unwearied  minstrel  dancing. 

Collins. 

Tempest,  The.  [Fr.  La  Ttinpete.] 
A  sobri(iuet  conferred,  on  account  of 
his  bravery  and  martial  impetuosity, 
upon  Andoche  Junot  (1771-1813), 
one  of  Napoleon's  generals,  who  was 
educated  lor  the  law,  but  in  1792 
eidisted  in  the  army  as  a  volunteer. 

Temple,  Laun'ce-lot.  A  pseudonym 
of  .lohn  Armstrong  (170U-i77li),  the 
English  poet. 

Templeton,  Laurence.  A  pseudo- 
nym under  which  Sir  Walter  Scott 
published  his  "  Ivanhoe,"  the  work 
being  dedicated  by  Laurence  Tem- 
pleton to  the  Kev.  Dr.  Dryasdust. 

J8rg=-  "  There  whs  no  desire  or  wish  to 
pass  off  tlie  supposed  Mr.  Teuipleton  us 
a  real  persou.  But  a  kind  of  contiuua- 
tioi)  of  '  The  Tales  of  my  Landlord  '  had 
been  recently  attempted  by  a  stranger ; 
and  it  was  supposed  this  Dedicatory 
Epistle  might  pass  tor  some  imitation  of 
the  same  kind,  and  tlius  putting  inquir- 
ers upon  a  false  scent,  induce  theui  to 
believe  they  had  before  them  the  work 
of  some  new  candidate  for  their  favor." 
Sir  W.  Scott. 

Te'reus.  [Gr.  Trjpeu?.]  (  Gr.  (/•  E0171. 
Mi/th.)  A  king  of  Thrace,  husband 
of  Progne,  whose  sister  Philomela  he 
violated,  for  which  he  was  changed 
into  a  hoopoe. 

Termagant.  [It.  Tervaf/nnfe,  Trivi- 
g(tvte ;  Old  Fr.  Tervai/ant.  Ritson 
suggests  its  derivation  from  the  Lat. 
ter.^  thrice,  and  vifinre  (p.  pr.  iinr/ans}, 
meaning,  in  the  lower  age  of  Latinity, 
to  go  or  turn  round,  —  a  very  ancient 
ceremony  in  magical  incantations; 
and  he  supposes  Termcifjnni  to  be  a 
corruption  of  Tervnqnni.,  just  as  cor- 
morant is  a  corruption  o^  cnrvorant  (  ?), 
and  malmsey  of  m>ilvesie.  Ugo  Foscolo 
says:  '■'■  Triuar/ante,  whom  the  prede- 
cessors of  Ariosto  always  couple  Avith 
Apollino,  is  really  Diana  Trivia^  the 
sister  of  the  classical  Apollo,  whose 
worship,  and  the  lunar  sacrifices 
which  it  demanded,  had  been  always 
preserved  amongst  the  Scythians." 
According  to  Panizzi.  Trivat/anfe,  or 
Tervaff'infe,  is  the  Moon,  or  Diana, 
or  Hecate,  "  wandering  under  three 
names."]  An  imaginary  being,  sup- 
posed  by   the   crusaders,   who   coHv 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  Bee  pp.  xiv- 


TER 


3G0 


THA 


founded  Mahometans  with  pagans,  to 
be  a  -MahdUK'taii  dt-ity.  'I'liis  imagi- 
nary jjersonai^e  was  introdiieed  into 
early  llnglisli  plays  and  moralities, 
and  was  represented  as  ut  a  most 
violent  cliaraeter,  so  that  a  ranting 
actor  mij;lit  always  appear  to  ad- 
vantage in  it.  Hence,  tlamlet  says 
of  one  too  extravapmt,  '"  1  would 
have  such  a  tellow  whipped  for  o'er- 
doing  Termagant." 

Ter'ini-nus(4).  (Rom.  }rijth.)  A  deity 

who  presided  over  boundaries.     His 

worship  is  said  to  have  been  instituted 

by  Nunui. 
Terp-sich'o-re.  [Gr.  Tcpi/^ixoprj.]  (  Gr. 

<j-  Rom.  Mijth.)     One  of  the  Muses; 

the  one  wlio  presided  over  dancing. 

TSr'ra.  {Rom.  Myth.)  A  personifica- 
tion of  the  earth;  the  same  as  TtUus. 

Terror  of  the  "World,  [Lat.  Mrtus 
Orhls.]  A  name  given  to  Attila, 
the  famous  king  of  the  Huns,  by  his 
contemporaries.  See  Scourge  of 
Gou. 

TSr'ry  Alts.  A  lawless  body  in  Clare, 
Ireland,  who  sprang  up  after  the  Un- 
ion, and  committed  various  outrages. 
Similar  societies  Avere  ''  The  Thrash- 
ers," in  Connaught,  "  The  Carders  " 
(so  called  from  tiaying  their  victims 
with  a  wool -card),  Sec.  See  Cap- 
tain Right  and  Captain  Kock. 

Te'thys.  [Gr.  Tr,Ov<;.']  (Gr.  <f-  Rom. 
Mijtli.)  A  daughter  of  Coelus  and 
Terra,  and  the  wife  of  Oceanus,  to 
whom  she  bore  the  Oceanids  and 
the  river-gods. 

Teu'cer.  [Gr.  TeC/cpo?.]  (  Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Jfi/tfi.)  1.  A  son  of  the  river-god 
Scamander,  and  the  lirst  king  of 
Trov. 

2.  A  son  of  Telamon  of  Salamis, 
and  brother  of  Ajax.  He  was  the 
best  archer  among  the  Greeks  at  the 
siege  of  Troy. 

But,  thought  hp,  I  mny,  like  a  second  Tfi- 
cpr,  flisrhar'^re  inv  shafts  from  hohind  the 
shield  of  niy  ally. '  Sir  \V.  Srott. 

Teufelsdrockh,  Herr  {her  toi^fels- 
dri.k.  4.3,  4fi).  [Ger.,  DoviTs  dimg.] 
An  eccentric  German  professor  and 
philosopher,  whose  imaginary  '*  li  e 
and  opinions  "  are  given  in  Carlyle's 

OS"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  £zplanation^ 


"  Sartor  Re.sartus."  "  The  Philosophy 
of  Clothes"  is  represented  as  tbrming 
the  subject  of  his  speculations.  "  To 
look  through  the  Siiows  of  things  into 
Things  themselves  he  is  led  and  com- 
pelled." The  design  of  the  work  is 
the  exposure  of  the  illusions  and 
shams  which  hold  sway  so  exten- 
sively over  the  human  intellect  and 
the  social  life  of  man. 

Thaisa.  A  daughter  of  Simonides,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Pericles." 

Thal'a-ba.  The  hero  of  Southej^'s 
poem  entitled  "  Thalaba,  the  De- 
stroyer." 

Tha-les'tris.  [Gr.  ©aATjo-rpis.]  {Gr. 
if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  queen  of  tha 
Amazons. 

"A  perfect  Tttale^trisi !"  said  the  emperor' 
"  I  shall  take  care  what  offense  I  give  her." 

6'iV  IV.  Scott. 

Tha-li'a.      [Gr.  0<iAeia.]      (  (y'r.   (f  Rom. 

Myth.)  1.  One  of  the  Muses  ;  the 
Muse  of  comedy. 

2.  One  of  the  Graces.  See  Gkaces. 

Thal'i-ard,  A  lord  of  Antioch,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Pericles." 

Thain'rauz.  {Myth.)  The  name  under 
which  the  Phrenicians  and  Syrians 
worshiped  Adonis.  He  Avas  killed 
by  a  Avild  boar  on  ]Mount  Libanus, 
and  Avas  said  to  revive  and  be  slain 
again  eA'eiy  year.  His  death  hap- 
pened on  the  banks  of  a  river  named 
after  him  Adonis,  Avhich  at  a  certain 
season  of  the  year  acquired  a  reddish 
tinge.  By  this  circumstance  his  feast 
was  regulated. 

J7inrnrnii~  r^me  next  behind. 
Whose  finnnal  wound  in  T,obTnon  alhired 
The  Svrinn  dimsels  to  l.Tment  his  fnte 
Jn  ninorous  ditties  all  n  summer's  day; 
Wliilo  smooth  Adonis  from  his  nntive  rook 
R  in  imrplc  to  the  sea,  suptiosed  with  blood 
Of  'nKiiinni'z  yearly  wounded.  Milton. 

Tham'y-Hs.  [Gr.  <=>auvoic.]  ( Gr.  cf 
Rom.  Myth.)  A  Thracian  poet  of 
such  overweening  conceit  that  be 
boasted  he  could  surpass  the  ^Nlusea 
themselves  in  song:  in  consequence 
of  Avhich  he  Avas  deprived  of  Ill's  sight 
and  of  the  power  of  singing.  He  Avas 
therefore  represented  Avith  a  broken 
lyre  in  his  hand.     See  M.k<)NI1>K8. 

Thaumaste  (to'masf,  30,  40,  04). 
The  name  of  a  great  English  scholar 


THA 


361 


THE 


in  Rabelais'  celebrated  satirical  ro- 
mance. He  went  to  France  to  ar^ue 
by  signs  with  I'antagrnel,  and  was 
overcome  by  I'anurge. 

Thau^ma-tur'gus.  A  surname  given 
to  tiregory,  a  native,  and  afterward 
bishop,  ot  Neo-Ciesarea,  in  Cappado- 
cia,  in  tlie  third  century,  on  account 
of  the  numerous  miracles  ascribed  to 
him  by  his  early  and  his  mediaival 
biographers. 

Thau'ma-tur'gus  of  the  "West.  An 
appellation  given  to  St.  Bernard 
(lUi)l-1153)  by  his  admiring  disci- 
ples. His  ascetic  life,  solitary  studies, 
and  stirring  elo(iuence,  made  him, 
during  his  lifetime,  the  oracle  of 
Christendom.  He  became  widely 
known  in  connection  with  the  disas- 
trous crusade  of  1140,  which  was 
urged  on  by  his  fervid  zeal.  In- 
numerable legions,  tired  by  his  burn- 
ing words,  hurried  to  the  East,  almost 
depopulating,  in  many  places,  castles, 
towns,  and  cities. 

Thek'la  {Get:  pron.  tek'la).  The 
daughter  of  Wallenstein,  in  Schiller's 
drama  of  this  name.  She  is  an  in- 
vention of  the  poet. 

Th^leme  (ta-'lam',  31).  A  name  un- 
der which  Voltaire  has  personitied 
the  will,  in  his  composition  entitled 
''  Theleme  and  Macare." 

Th^leme,  Abbey  of.  The  name  of  an 
imaginary  establishment  in  Kabelais' 
"  Gargantua,"  stored  with  every  thing 
which  could  contribute  to  earthly 
happiness,  and  given  by  Grangi»usier 
to  Friar  John,  as  a  recompense  for 
his  senices  in  helping  to  subject  the 
people  of  Lerne. 

4S=  "  The  Abbey  of  Theleme  is  the 
Tery  reverse  of  a  Catholic  rfligious  house, 
being  an  edifice  consecrateil  to  the  high- 
est state  of  worldly  civilization.  As  the 
discipline  of  Gnrgantna  represents  Ra- 
belais' notion  of  a  perfect  education,  so 
may  we  suppose  the  manners  of  the  ab- 
bey show  what  he  considered  to  he  the 
perfection  of  polished  society.  Religious 
hypocrites,  pettifogging  attorneys,  and 
usurers  are  excluded  ;  gallant  ladies  and 
gentlemen,  and  faithful  expounders  of 
the  Scriptures,  are  invited  bv  the  in- 
scription over  the  gate.  The  motto  of  the 
establishment  is,  *  Facfy  que   vaul/fras,^ 


[Do  what  thou  wilt] ;  and  the  whole  rega- 

lations  of  the  convent  are  such  ;\s  to  se- 
cure a  succession  of  elegant  recreations, 
according  to  the  pleasure  of  the  inhab- 
itants." For.  Qu.  Rev. 

Now  in  tliis  Abf>et/  of  The'liiiie, 
"Which  realized  tlie'fairest  dream 
That  ever  dozing  bull-frog  had.      LoioelU 
He  appeared  less  to  he  supplicating  expect- 
ed mercies,  than  thankful   tor  those  already 
found,  as  if  .  .  .  saying  the  "  gvatUt"  in  the 
refectory  of  the  Abbey  of  T/teleiin'. 

Putnam's  Mag. 

The'mis.  [Gr.  ©e>i?.]  ( Gr.  ^  Rom. 
Myth.)  The  goddess  of  justice,  a 
daughter  of  Coelus  and  Terra.  She 
was  also  a  prophetic  divinity. 

Against  these  Bailliages,  against  this  Ple- 
nary Court,  exasperated  Themis  every  where 
shows  face  of  battle.  Carlyle. 

Theodorus  (the'o-do'rus,  9  ;  Fr. 
pron.  ta^o'do'riiss'  102).  The  name 
of  a  physician,  in  Rabelais'  romance 
of  "  Gargantua."  At  the  request  of 
Ponocrates,  Gargantua's  tutor,  he  un- 
dertook to  cure  the  latter  of  his  vi- 
cious manner  of  living,  and  accord- 
ingly purged  him  canonically  with 
Anticyrian  hellebore,  by  whicli  medi- 
cine he  cleared  out  all  the  foulness 
and  perverse  habit  of  his  brain,  so 
that  he  became  a  man  of  great  honor, 
sense,  courage,  and  piet}'. 

Ther-si'tSs.  [Gr.  ©epaiVrj?.]  ( Gr.  cf 
Rom.  MyiJi.)  The  ugliest  and  most 
scurrilous  of  the  Greeks  before  Troy. 
He  spared,  in  his  revilings,  neither 
prince  nor  chief,  but  directed  his 
abuse  principally  against  Acliilles  and 
Ulysses.  He  was  slain  by  Achilles 
for  deriding  his  grief  lor  Penthesilea. 
The  name  is  often  used  to  denote  a 
calumniator.  Shakespeare  introduces 
him  in  his  play  of  "  Troilus  and 
Cressida,"  exhibiting  him  as  a  sar- 
castic humorist  who  lays  open  the 
foibles  of  those  about  him  with  con- 
summate address. 

In  the  midst  of  this  chuckle  of  self-gratula- 
tion,  some  figure  goes  by,  which  Thersites  too 
can  love  and  admire.  Emerson. 

The'seus  (28).  [Gr.  (s^rjd-ei;?.]  1.  {Gr. 
if  Rom. Myth.)  A  son  of  ^geus,  and 
king  of  Athens,  who,  next  to  Hercu- 
les, was  the  most  celebrated  of  the 
heroes  of  antiquity.  He  vanquished 
the  Centaurs,  slew  the  IMinotaur,  and 
escaped  from  the  labyrinth  of  Crete  by 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numberb  after  certain  words  refer,  Bee  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


THE 


3G2 


THI 


means  of  a  clew  of  thread  given  him 
by  Ariadne.  He  was  further  distin- 
guished for  his  friendship  tor  Piritli- 

OUS.        See     AltlADNK,     illl'POLYTUS, 

and  PiHiTiious. 

2.  Duke  of  Athens;  a  character  in 
Sliakuspeare's  "  Midsuninier-Night's 
Dream." 
Thes'ty-lis.  [Gr.  ©ecrrvAi?.]  A  female 
slave  mentioned  in  one  of  the  idyls 
of  Theocritus  ;  hence,  any  rustic 
maiden. 

And  then  in  haste  her  bower  she  leaves 
With  TheM'jlis  to  bind  the  sheaves. 

Milton. 

The'tis.  [Gr.  0€ti?.]  {Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  sea-nymph,  daughter  of 
Nereus  and  Doris,  wife  of  Peleus,  and 
mother  of  Achilles. 

Theuerdank  (toi^ef-dahk).  [Ger., 
dear  thanks.]  A  sobriquet  of  5laxi- 
milian  I.,  emperor  of  Germany  (145U- 
1519)-,  also  the  title  of  a  German 
poem  tirst  printed  at  Niirnberg  in 
1517. 

Third  Founder  of  Rome.  A  title 
given  to  the  Roman  general  Caius 
Marius,  on  account  of  iiis  repeated 
triumphs  over  the  public  enemies  of 
his  country,  particularly  for  his  suc- 
cessful conduct  of  the  Jugurthine  war, 
and  for  his  decisive  victories  over  the 
combined  forces  of  the  Ambrones  and 
Teutoues,  near  Aqu*  Sextine  (Aix), 
iii  102  B.  c,  and  over  the  Cimbri,  on 
the  plain  of  Vercelhe  (V'ercelli),  in 
101. 

Thirty  Tyrants,  The.  [Rom.  Ilisf.) 
A  fanciful  designation  given  to  a 
number  of  adventurers,  who.  after  the 
defeat  and  captivity  of  Valerian,  and 
during  the  reign  of  his  weak  succes- 
sor, Gallienus  (a.  d.  •2J0-267),  aspi'-ed 
to  the  throne,  and  by  their  contests 
threatened  to  produce  a  complete 
dissolution  of  the  empire.  The  name 
was  tirst  applied  to  them  by  Trebel- 
lius  Pollio,  one  of  the  writers  of  the 
Augustan  Chronicle,  who  has  given 
the  biographies  of  the  ditferent  usurp- 
ers. The  analogy  between  these  ad- 
venturers, who  sprang  up  suddenly, 
without  concert  or  sympathy,  in  di- 
verse quarters  of  the  world,  each 
struggling  to  obtain  supreme  domin- 
ion for  himself,  and    the  Thirty  Tv- 


iieioues,  Ills  boh. 
llerennianus,  >„n,„_ 
Timolaus,       <«'^er 
Vabalathus,     yo°»- 


rants  of  Athens,  who,  on  the  termi- 
nation of  the  I'eloponnesian  war,  re- 
ceived the  sway  over  that  city  from 
the  Spartan  Lysander,  is  purely  im- 
aginary. Even  the  numbers  do  not 
c«jrrespond;  and  the  Latin  historian  is 
forced  to  include  the  names  of  wom- 
en and  children,  and  many  doubtful 
names,  to  complete  the  parallel. 

j^^  The  following  list  comprises  all 
who  have  beea  meutioned  by  different 
autliors  :  — 

Cecrops.  Macrianus,  father  and 
Antoninus.  son;  and 

Cyriudes.  Quietus,  anothereon. 

Postumus,  father  and  Ualista. 

son.  Odenathus. 

Lselianus,  or  Lollia-  Herodes,  his  son. 

nus. 
Marius. 
Victor!  nus,      father 

and  son.  Maonius. 

Victoria,  or  Victori-  Zenobia. 

na.  risi). 

Tetricus,  father  and  Valens. 

son.  ^milianus. 

Ingenuus.  Saturninus. 

Regalianus.  Celsus. 

Aureolus.  Firmus. 
Trebellianus. 

Thirty  Years' "War.  (Ger.  Hist.)  A 
collective  name  given  to  a  series  of 
wars  between  the  Protestants  and 
the  Catholics  in  the  tirst  half  of  the 
seventeenth  century.  It  began  with 
an  insurrection  of  the  Bohemians,  in 
1018,  and  ended  with  the  peace  of 
Westphalia,  in  1G18,  spreading  from 
one  end  of  Germany  to  the  other,  and 
leaving  the  country  one  wide  scene 
of  desolation  and  disorder.  The  house 
of  Austria  was  at  the  head  of  the 
Catholic  party,  while  the  chief  sup>- 
port  of  the  Protestants  was  Gustavus 
Adolphus. 

This'be.  [Gr.  ©tVSr,.]  (Gr.  cf  Rom. 
Mi/fh.)  A  beautiful  maiden  of  Bab- 
ylon, beloved  by  Pyramus.  They 
lived  in  adjoining  houses,  and,  as 
their  parents  would  not  let  them  mar- 
ry, they  contrived  to  communicate 
through  an  opening  in  a  wall.  Once 
they  agreed  to  meet  at  the  tomb  of 
Ninus.  Thisbe  was  first  on  the  spot, 
but,  seeing  a  lioness,  she  became 
frightened,  and  ran  off,  dropping  in 
her  haste  a  garment,  which  the  lioness 
found  and  soiled  with  l)lood.  When 
Pyramus  arrived  and  saw  it.  he  imag- 
ined that  Thisbe  was  killed,  and  so 
made  away  with  himself;  while  she, 


B^"  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


TIIO 


363 


THR 


gaining  courage,  after  a  time  returned, 
and,  tiiiding  his  dead  bcKly,  likewise 
killed  herself.  iShakespeare  has  bur- 
lesijued  the  story  of  l-*yrainus  and 
Thisbe  in  the  lnt*?rlude  in  his  "Mid- 
summer-Night's Dream." 

Tliu  wall  he  sets  'twixt  Flame  and  Air 
(Like    tliat  which    barred    young   Thisbe's 
blist)). 
Through  whose  small  holes  this  dangerous 
pair 
May  see  each  other,  but  not  kiss. 

1'.  JIuore  {on  Uaci/'s  Safety- Lamp). 

Thomas  the  Rhymer.  The  name 
under  which  Tliomas  Learmont,  of 
Ercildoune,a  Scotcliman, —  burn  dur- 
ing the  reign  of  Alexander  III.,  and 
living  in  tlie  days  of  Wallace,  —  i8 
generally  and  best  known. 

4®=  ''  This  personage,  the  Merlin  of 
Scotland,  and  to  whom  some  of  tlie  ad- 
ventures whicli  the  British  bards  as- 
signed to  Merlin  Caledonius,  or  The  Wild, 
have  been  transferred  by  tradition,  was, 
as  is  well  known,  a  magician,  as  well  as  a 
poet  and  prophet.  He  is  alleged  still  to 
live  in  the  land  of  Fairy,  and  is  expected 
to  return  at  some  great  convulsion  of 
society,  in  which  he  is  to  act  a  distin- 
guished part,  —  a  tradition  common  to  all 
nations,  as  the  belief  of  the  Mahommedans 
respecting  their  twelfth  Iniaum  demon- 
strates." Sir  W.  Scott. 

Tho'pas,  Sir.    The  hero  of  the  "  Rime 

of    Sir   Thopas,"   one   of    Chaucer's 

''Canterbury  Tales,"    containing  an 

account  of  the  adventures  of  a  knight- 

eiTant,  and  his  wanderings  in  search 

of  the    queen    of   Faery.     [Written 

also,  erroneously,  T  o  p  a  z.] 

T\a-\  ns  ^ir  Tnnnz,  or  Squire  Quarles,  — 

IMatthew  did  for  the  nonce  reply,— 

At  embletn  or  device  am  I.  Prior. 

Thor.  [Old  Norse  TJwrr,  contracted 
from  Tlmnnr,  Old  Saxon  Thnnnr, 
A.-S.  T/nmnr,  Old  High  Ger.  Do- 
nnr ;  all  from  the  same  root  as  thnn- 
(7f>7\]  (Sc'inil.  ^fy^h.)  A  son  of  Odin 
and  Frige^a;  the  god  of  war,  and 
in  that  capacity  the  defender  of  the 
gods  airainst  the  frequent  attacks  of 
the  Giants.  He  drives  a  golden  char- 
iot drawn  by  two  white  he -goats, 
and,  when  it  rolls  along  the  heavens, 
it  causes  thunder  and  lightning. 
His  principal  weapon,  and  that  on 
which  much  of  his  power  depends,  is 
a  macp  or  hammer  called  jMjiilnir. 
He  has  also  a  famous   belt,   which, 


when  on  him,  doubles  his  strength, 
and  a  pair  of  steel  gauntlets,  which 
are  of  great  use  to  him,  as  M jblnir  i8 
almost  always  red  -  hot.  The  lifth 
day  was  sacred  to  this  god,  and  hence 
it  was  called  Thor's  day,  our  Thurs- 
day.    8ee  Mjolmk. 

Thorn'hill,  Sir  "William,  or  Squire. 
See  liuKCHELU,  Mk. 

This  worthy  citizen  abused  the  aristocracy 
much  on  the  same  principle  as  the  fair  Oliv- 
ia depreciated  Squire  Tliornhill ;  —  lie  had  a 
sneaking  att'ectioii  for  what  he  abused. 

Sir  E.  Jiulwcr  Lytton, 

Thorough.  An  expressive  name  given 
by  the  F^arl  of  Stratibrd  (T/iomas 
Wentworth),  one  of  the  privy  coun- 
cilors of  King  Charles  1.,  to  a  vast 
and  celebrated  scheme  projected  by 
himself,  and  designed  to  make  the 
government  of  England  an  absolute 
or  despotic  monarchy. 

Thorough  Doctor.  [Lat.,  JDocfor 
Fundatus.']  An  honorary  appellation 
conferred  upon  William  Varro,  an 
English  JNIinorite  and  scholastic  phi- 
losopher of  the  last  half  of  the  thir- 
teenth century. 

Thoth.  (Ef/jfpL  Myth.)  The  god  of 
eloquence,  and  the  supposed  invent- 
or of  writing  and  philosophy:  rep- 
resented as  having  the  body  of  a 
man,  and  the  head  of  a  lamb  or  ibis. 
He  corresponds  to  the  J\Jtrcury  of  the 
Greeks  and  Romans. 

Thoughtless,  Miss  Betsey.  The 
heroine  of  a  novel  of  the  ^alne  name 
by  Mrs.  Hey  wood  (lfinf?-1768),  sup- 
posed to  have  suggested  the  plan  of 
Miss  Bumey's  "  Evelina."  She  is 
represented  as  a  virtuous,  sensible, 
and  amiable  young  lady,  but  heed- 
less of  ceremony,  ignorant  of  eti- 
quette, and  without  experience  of  the 
manners  of  the  world.  She  is  con- 
sequently led  into  many  awkward 
situations,  most  mortifying  to  her 
vanity,  by  which  the  delicacy  of  an 
amiable  and  devoted  lover  is  at  length 
alarmed,  and  his  aftections  almost  for 
ever  alienated. 

Thra'so.  [Lat. ;  Gr.  flnaa-uiv.  a  brag> 
gart,  from  Ooaavt;,  bold,  over-bold.] 
The  name  of  a  swaggerinc:  captain 
in  Terence's  "Eunuch."     From  this 


nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  ziv-xzziL 


THR 


3G4 


THU 


name  is  derived  the    .djective  three- 
son  icdl. 

Three  Calendars.  'I'hree  sons  of 
kings,  (iis<;iiisf(l  as  bogging  dervises, 
•who  are  tiic  subject  of  tales  in  the 
"Arabian  iS'ights'  Entertaiinnent8." 

Jeanie  went  on  oi)cning  doorx,  like  the 
second  Cd/nmlur  wnutmg  an  eye,  in  the  castle 
of  the  hundred  obliging;  daniKcLs,  until,  like 
the  said  prince-errant,  she  came  to  a  stable. 

^ir  U'.  :Scott. 

Three-fingered  Jack.  The  nick- 
name pojiiilarh'  given  to  a  famous 
negro  robber,  who  was  the  terror  of 
Jamaica  in  1780.  He  was  hunted 
down  and  killed  in  1781. 

Three  Kings  of  Cologne.  See  Co- 
logne, Thk  Thkee  Kings  of. 

Three  Tailors  of  Tooley  Street. 
Three  characters  said  bv  Canning 
to  have  held  a  meeting  for  redress 
of  popidar  grievances,  and  to  have 
addressed  a  petition  to  the  house  of 
commons,  beginning,  "  We,  the  peo- 
ple of  England."  Tooley  Street  is 
in  London,  in  the  parliamentary  bor- 
ough of  Southwark. 

What  n  queer  fish  Mr.  Taylor  imist  have 
been!  Where  is  he  now?  "Why,  he  (vour 
servant)  is  Tavlor — .Jereniv  TaVlor — 'Tom 
Taylor—  Taylortlio  Water-Poet—  Billy  Tay- 
lor—the Thr''/'  Tailors  of  Tooley  Street —  .  .'.  ; 
and  —  he  is  asleep !  Sala. 

Thresher,  Captain.  The  feigned 
leader  of  a  body  of  lawless  persons 
meeting  as  confederates,  who  attack- 
ed the  collectors  of  tithes  and  their 
imderlings  in  Ireland  about  the  year 
180G,  in  consequence  of  the  exactions 
of  the  latter  in  the  counties  of  Mayo, 
Sligo,  Leitrim,  and  part  of  Koscom- 
mon.  Tlieir  threats  and  warnings 
were  signed  Captain  Thresher. 

Thrym.  {f>cnnfh  Myth.)  A  giant 
who  fell  in  love  with  Frevja.and  stole 
Thor's  hammer,  hoping  to  receive  her 
hand  as  a  reward  for  returning  it. 
See  MjiiLMR. 

Tnumb,  Tom.  [Fr.  Le  Petit  Poncet, 
vTer.  D'nimlinrjj]  The  name  of  a  di- 
minutive personage  celebrated  in  the 
legendary  literature  of  England.  He 
is  said  to  have  been  buried  at  Lin- 
coln, where  a  little  blue  flag-stone  was 
long  shown  as  his  ni(uiument.  which, 
however,  has  been  displaced  and  lost. 


fl^  In  the  Bodleian  Library  there  is  a 
work  beariu;;  the  lollowiug  title:  "Tom 
Tiiuinb  ills  life  and  death  :  wherin  is  de- 
clared many  inaruailous  acts  of  uian- 
hood,  full  of  wonder  and  strange  nierri- 
uieuts.  \Vliicl)  little  kiii>riit  lived  in 
King  Arthur's  time,  and  famous  in  the 
Court  of  Great  Brittaiiie.  London : 
printed  for  .John  Wright,  1G30."  It  be- 
gins thus  :  — 

"  In  Arthur's  court  Tom  T/iumbe  did  liu«, 
A  man  of  mickle  mif;ht. 
The  be.st  of  all  the  Table  Round, 
And  eke  a  doughty  kniglit. 

"His  stature  but  an  inch  in  height, 
Or  quarter  of  a  span  ; 
Then  tliinke  you  not  this  little  knight 
Was  prou'd'a  valiant  many" 

JS£^  "  As  to  Tom  Thumb,  he  owes  his 
Christian  name,  most  piobably,  to  the 
spirit  of  reduplication,  t^onie  Teuton,  or, 
it  may  be,  some  still  remoter  fancy,  had 
imagined  the  manikin,  called,  from  his 
proportions.  Daumling,  the  diminutive 
of  Davm,  the  same  word  as  our  thumb ; 
while  the  Scots  got  him  as  Tamlane.and, 
though  forgetting  his  fairy  proportions, 
sent  him  to  ElUand,  and  rescued  him 
thence  just  iti  time  to  avoid  being  made 
the  *  Teind  to  hell.'  As  Daumling,  he 
rode  in  the  horse's  ear,  and,  reduplicated 
into  Tom  Thumb,  came  to  England,  and 
was  placed  at  Arthur's  court,  as  the  true 
land  of  Romance  ;  then  in  France,  where 
little  Gauls  sucked  their  Latin  polUx  na 
their  jiouce,  he  got  called  '  Le  Petit  I'ou- 
cet,'  and  was  sent  to  the  cave  of  an  ogre, 
or  orco,  — a  monster  (nio.st  likely  a  cuttle- 
fish), —  straight  from  the  Mediterranean, 
and  there  peiformed  his  treacherous,  but 
justifiable,  substitution  of  his  brother's 
night  caps  for  the  infant  ogresses"  crowns, 
and  so  came  to  England  as  Hop-o'-my- 
Thumb,  too  often  confounded  with  the 
true  Tom  Thumb.''  Yuvge. 

SSr"  '■  On  ballad  authority  we  learn 
that  '  Tom  a  lyu  was  a  ^cocttsman  born.' 
Now  .  .  .  'J'om-a  lin.  otli<  iwise  Tamlane. 
is  no  other  than  Tom  Tiiumb  liimstlf,  who 
was  origin:illy  a  dwarf,  or  dwergar,  of 
Scandinavian  descent,  being  the  Thaum- 
jin,  /.  e.  Little  Thumb,  of  the  Nortiimen. 
Drayton,  who  introdmes  Vioth  these  he- 
roes in  his  '  N_\  mphidia,' seems  to  have 
suspected  their  identity.  .  .  .  The  prose 
histnrv  of  Tom  Thumb  is  manutactured 
from  the  ballad  ;  and  by  the  introduction 
of  the  fairy  queen  at  his  birth,  and  cei-» 
tain  poetical  touches  which  it  yet  exhib- 
its, we  are  led  to  suppose  that  it  is  .a  rifac- 
cinmento  of  au  earlier  and  better  origi- 
nal." Q«-  Hei\ 

Thunderbolt  of  Italy.     A  sobriquet 
or  surname  given  to  (iaston  de  Eoix 


l»-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


THU 


365 


TIM 


(1489-1512),   nephew  of   Louis  XII. 
of    France,   and  conuwander   of   the 

«  French  armies  in  Italy,  wliere  he 
gained  a  series  of  brilliant  victories, 
and  distinji,uished  himst'lf  by  the  ce- 
lerity of  his  movements. 

Thunderer,  The.  A  popular  appel- 
lation of  the  London  "Times;'*  — 
oriiiinally  ii:ivcn  to  it  on  account  of 
the  powerful  articles  contributed  to 
its  columns  by  the  editor,  Edward 
Sterling. 

Thundering  Legion.  [Lat.  Lerjio 
FaliuiiuUrir.]  A  name  given  to  a 
Kcnnan  legion,  A.  d.  179,  from  the 
prayers  of  some  Christians  in  it  hav- 
ing been  followed,  it  is  said,  by  a 
storm  of  thunder,  lightning,  and  rain, 
which  not  only  enabled  them  to  re- 
lieve their  thirst,  wliich  had  been  ex- 
cessive, but  tended  greatly  to  dis- 
eomtit  the  Marcomanni,  the  invading 
^nemy. 

4gg=-  This  legend  has  been  the  subject 
of  considerable  controversy  ;  and,  though 
there  would  appear  to  have  been  some 
foundation  for  the  storv,  it  is  certain 
that  tne  name  "  Tliunderiug  Legion'' 
existed  long  before  the  date  when  it  is 
said  to  h.ive  originated. 

Thu'ri''^  (9).  A  foolish  rival  to  Val- 
entine, in  Shakespeare's  "  Two  Gen- 
tlemen of  Verona." 

Thwp'^kum..  A  famous  character  in 
Fielding's  novel,  "'The  History  of 
Tom  .Jones,  a  Foundling." 

While  the  world  was  resounding  with  the 
noise  of  a  disputatious  philosophy,  the  Baco- 
nian school,  like  AUworthy,  seited  between 
Square  and  TTiwdrkmn,  pp'served  a  cahn 
neutrality,  half  scornful,  jnlf  benevolent,  and, 
content  with  addinsi  to  the  sum  of  practicd 
good,  left  the  war  of  words  to  those  who  Hked 
it.  Macauhvj. 

Thy-es'tes.  [Gr.  ©ueo-rrj?.]  (Gr.  if 
Rnni.  yfiffh.)  A  son  of  Pelops  and 
Hippodamia,  and  brother  of  Atreus, 
with  whose  wife  he  committed  adul- 
tery. In  requital  of  this  act,  Atreus 
invited  his  brother  to  a  feast,  at  Avhich 
he  made  him  ignorantly  eat  the  flesh 
of  his  own  son.  Thyestes  consulted 
an  oracle,  to  learn  how  he  might 
avenge  himself;  and  having  been  told 
that  his  offspring  by  his  own  daugh- 
ter should  avenge  him,  he  begot  by 
her  "^gisthus,  who  afterw^ard  slew 
Atreus. 


A  natural   r'^past ;    in    ordinary   times,  t 
harmless  one     now,  fatal  as  that  of  Th>ieitt«s, 

Curlyle. 

Thyr'sis  (4).  [Gr.  Miipo-i^.]  The  name 
of  a  herdsmau  in  Theocritus;  also,  a 
she|)herd  mentioned  in  N'irgii's  sev- 
enth Eclogue,  who  has  a  poetical  con- 
test with  Corydon;  hence,  in  modem 
poetry,  any  shepherd  or  rustic. 

Hard  by,  a  cottage  cliimne'y' smokes 
From  betwixt  two  aged  oaks, 
Where  Uorydon  and  77///r.s/>,  met, 
Are  at  tlieir  savory  dinner  set.       Jliltotu 

Tibbs,  Beau.     See  Beau  Tibbs. 

Tib'ert,  Sir.  A  name  given  to  the 
cat,  in  the  old  romance  of  "  Ilenard 
the  Fox.''     See  Kknahd. 

Tickler,  Timothy.  One  of  the  inter- 
locutors in  Wilson's  "  Nodes  Am- 
brosiana?;''  an  idealized  portrait  of 
an  Edinburgh  lawyer  named  Robert 
Sym  (1750-1844). 

Tiddler,  Tom.  A  personage  well 
known  among  children  from  the 
game  of  "  Tom  Tiddler's  ground." 
One  of  Dickens's  minor  tales  is  enti- 
tled "Tom  Tiddler's  GrouncL" 

Tiddy-doll.  A  nickname  given  to 
Richard  Grcnville,  Lord  Temple 
(1711-1770),  in  the  pasquinades  of 
his  time. 

Til'bu-ri'na.  [Latinized  from  the 
Eug.  T'dhiiry.']  A  character  in  Sher- 
idan's play,  "  The  Critic,"  whose 
love-lorn  ravings  constitute  the  acme 
of  burlesque  tragedy.  She  is  the 
daughter  of  the  governor  of  Tilbury 
Fort. 

An  oyster  may  be  crossed  in  love,  says  the 
gentle  TUhnrinn,  —  and  a  drover  m'ny  be 
touched  on  a  point  of  honor,  says  the  Ch'-on- 
icler  of  the  Canongate.  Sir  H'.  Scott. 

T>ike  Tilhun'nn  in  the  play,  they  fAIrs.  Rad- 
cliffij's  heroines]  are  "inconsolable  to  the 
minuet  in  Ariadne."  Dunlop. 

TH'bu-ry  Fort,  Governor  of.  A 
character  in  ^Ir.  PutPs  tragedy  of 
"  The  Spanish  Armada,"  in  Sheri- 
dan's dramatic  piece  entitled  "  The 
Critic;"  "a  plain  matter-of-fact 
man;  that  's  his  character." 

Thousrh  the  parlinmentart'  major  stood 
firm,  the  father,  as  in  ttie  c'\i^p  of  tho  Governor 
of  Tilbun/,  was  softened,  and  bo  agreed  that 
his  friends  should  accept  a  compromise. 

Sir  »'.  Scott. 

Tim't-Ss.  The  name  of  a  character  in 
Spenser's  "  Faiiry  Queen,"  intended 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii- 


TIM 


366 


TIR 


to  represent  the  spirit  of  chivalrous 
honor  and  generosity. 

j^tT  "  Tb«  iitrettiou  of  Tiinias  for  Bel- 
phoelte  is  allowed,  on  all  hamls,  to  alluiie 
to  Sir  Walter  Raleigh's  pretended  adiiii- 
ratiou  of  Queen  Klizabetli ;  and  his  dis- 
grace, on  account  of  a  less  platonic  in- 
trigue with  the  daugliter  of  t^i^  Nicholas 
Throirniorton.  together  with  his  restora- 
tion to  favor,  are  plainly  pointed  out  in 
the  subsequent  events.  But  no  commen- 
tator h;u-5  noticed  the  V)eautiful  insinua- 
tion by  which  the  poet  points  out  the  er- 
ror of  his  friend,  and  of  liis  frieiid'.s  wife. 
Tiniias  finds  Aiiioret  in  the  arms  of  Cor- 
flambo,  or  sensual  passion  :  he  combats 
the  nion.'^ter  unsuccessfully,  and  wounds 
the  lady  iu  his  arms."'  Sir  IV.  Hcott. 

Ti'mon.  [Gr.  Tiixon:]  An  Athenian 
who  lived  in  the  time  of  the  Pelopon- 
nesian  Avar,  noted  as  an  "  enemy  to 
mankind."  lie  is  mentioned  by  Plu- 
tarch, Lucian,  Aristophanes,  and  other 
Greek  writers,  but  is  best  known  to 
English  readers  as  the  misanthropical 
hero  of  Shakespeare's  '•  Tinion  of 
Athens." 

jBfg=  '"The  story  [in  Shakespeare]  is 
treated  in  a  very  simple  manner  .  .  .  :  — 
in  the  first  act.  tiie  jmous  life  of  Timon. 
his  nolile  and  hospitable  extravagance,  and 
the  throng  of  every  description  of  suitors 
to  liim  ;  in  the  second  and  third  acts,  his 
embarrassment,  and  the  trial  which  he  is 
thereby  reduced  to  make  of  his  supposed 
friends,  who  nil  desert  him  in  the  hour 
of  need  ;  in  the  fourth  and  fifth  acts, 
Timon's  flight  to  the  woods,  his  misan- 
thropical melancholy,  and  his  death."' 

Schlegrl,  Drans. 

When  he  [Horace  'Walnnlo]  talked  misfin- 
vhrnpy,  lie  oiit-Timoncd  Timon.       Macaulay. 

Tin-cla'ri-an  Doctor,  The  Great 
(9).  A  title  assumed  by  William 
iVIitchell,  a  Avhite-irnn  smith,  or  tin- 
plate  worker,  of  Edinbiircch,  who  pub- 
lished many  indescribable  books  and 
broadsides  there  and  in  Glasccow  at 
the  be^innina:  of  the  last  centurv'. 
'*  The  reason  why  I  call  myself  Tin- 
clnri'in  Doctor,"  quoth  he,  "  is  be- 
cause I  am  a  Tinklar,  and  cures  old 
Pans  and  l.antruns."  His  ^Teat  work, 
the  "  Tinkler's  Testament,"  was  dedi- 
cated to  Queen  Anne. 

Tin-tag'el.  A  stronc:  and  macmifi- 
cent  castle  situated  on  the  coast  of 
Cornwall ;  said  to  have  been  in  part 
the  work  of  giants.     It  is  renowned 


in  romance  as  the  birthplace  of  King 
Arthur,  and  tiie  residence  of  King 
Mark  and  (^ueen  Isolde.  Its  walls 
were  washed  by  the  sea,  and  innne-* 
diately  bel(»w  it  were  extensive  and 
beautiful  meadows,  forests  abounding 
with  game,  and  rivers  tilled  with  tish. 
According  to  Dunlop,  some  vestiges 
of  this  castle  still  remain.  [Written 
also  T  i  n  t  a  g  g  e  1  and  I'  i  n  t  a  d  i  e  1.] 

Tin'to,  Dick.  1.  The  name  of  a  poor 
artist  in  Scott's  novels,  "  The  Bride 
of  Lanunenuoor"  and  "St.  lionan's 
Well." 

2.  A  pseudonym  adopted  by  Frank 
Bnott  Goodrich  (b.  182(J;,  a  popular 
American  author. 

Tip^pe-ca-noe'.  A  sobriquet  con- 
ferred upon  General  William  Henry 
Harrison,  afterward  jjresident  of  the 
I'nited  States,  daring  the  political 
canvass  which  preceded  his  election, 
on  account  of  the  victory  gained  by 
him  over  the  Indians  in  the  battle 
which  took  place  on  the  6th  of  No- 
vember, 1811,  at  the  junction  of  the 
Tippecanoe  and  Wabash  Rivers. 

Ti-rante'  the  White.  The  hero  of  a 
tine  old  romance  of  chivalry,  com- 
posed and  published  in  the  tifteenfh 
century.  His  name  is  derived  partly 
from  his  father,  and  partly  from  his 
mother,  the  former  being  '•  lord  of 
the  seigniory  of  Tirania,  on  the  bor- 
ders of  England,"  the  latter,  Blanca, 
daughter  of  the  Duke  of  Brittany. 

Ti-re'si-as  (2T).  [Gr.  Tftoeo-tac]  (  Gr. 
ff-  Rom.  Myfh.)  A  celebrated  blind 
soothsayer  of  Thebes  who  lived  to  a 
great  age.  He  plays  a  prominent 
part  in  the  mythical  history  of  Greece. 
His  blindness  is  said  to  have  been 
sent  upon  him  for  some  offense  which 
he  imintentionally  gave  to  Minerva 
or  to  Juno,  or  because  he  imprudent- 
ly revealed  to  men  things  which  the 
gods  did  not  wish  them  to  know. 

Thee,    Sion,    and    the    flowery    brook*   be- 
neath .  .  . 
Xiffhtly  T  visit;  nor  pomotimps  forjrrt 
Those  other  two  oqivled  with  mc  in  fnte, 
So  were  I  eqnnled  with  them  in  renown, — 
Plind  Thamyris  nnd  hlind  Msconides; 
And  Tiresias  and  Phineus,  prophets  old. 

Milton. 

Tirso  de  Molina  (tef'so  da  mo-le'na). 
A    pseudonym     of    Gabriel     Tellez 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Frouiiuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


TIS 


367 


TIT 


(1570-1048),  a  Spanish  monk  anil 
dramatist.  His  ifujUfuiuvrt,  a  com- 
eily  tounded  on  the  legend  of  the 
world-tamo  us  Don  Juan  de  Tenon'o, 
is  one  of  the  most  renuirkable  i)lays 
in  tile  dranuilic  literature  of  Spain. 

Tisbina  (tez-be'na).     See  Phasildo. 

Ti-siph'o-ne.  [Gr.  Tiauliouri.]  ( (Jr. 
l)-  Ro/ii.  Myth.)  One  of  the  three  Fu 
ries;  a  minister  of  the  venf^eanee  of 
the  gods,  who  punished  the  wieked 
in  Tartarus.     See  Fuiiits. 

Ti'tan.  [Gr.  Tirav.]  (6'r.  (f  Rmn. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Cadus  and  Terra, 
elder  brother  of  Saturn,  and  father 
of  the  Titans,  giant  deities  who  at- 
tempted to  deprive  Saturn  of  the 
sovereignty  of  lieaven,  and  were,  by 
the  thunderbolts  of  Jupiter,  the  son 
of  Saturn,  hurled  into  Tartarus.  By 
some  jioets.  Titan  is  identilied  with 
Hyperion,  Helios,  or  Sol ;  but  this 
point  is  involved  in  obscurity. 

Ti-ta'ni-a.  {Fairy  Myth.)  Wife  of 
Oberon,  and  queen  of  the  fairies. 

4®=  "  The  Shakespearian  commenta- 
tors have  not  thought  fit  to  inform  us 
why  the  poet  designates  the  fairy  queen 
'  Titania.'  It.  liowever.  presents  no  dif- 
ficulty. It  was  the  belief  of  those  days 
that  the  fairies  were  the  same  as  the  clas- 
sic nvmphs,  the  attendants  of  Diana.  .  .  . 
The  fairy  queen  was,  therefore,  the  same 
as  Diana,  whom  Ovid  ('  Met.'iii.  173)styles 
Titania."'  Keigh'ley. 

Her  fig-ure,  hands,  and  feet,  were  formed 
upon  a  model  of  exquisite  symmetry  witli  the 
size  and  lifrhtness  of  her  person,  so  that  Ti- 
^rt/nVi  licrself  could  scarce  have  found  a  move 
fitting  representative.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

tit'comb,  Timothy  ^tit'kum).  A 
iwm  (Ic  plume  adopted  by  Josiah  Gil- 
bert Holland  (b.  1819),  a  popular 
American  author  and  journalist. 

Tt-tho'nus.  [Gr.  TtfJojvo?.]  {Gr.  cf 
Horn.  Myth.)  A  son  of  Laomedon, 
king  of  Troy.  He  was  so  beautiful 
that  Aurora  became  enamored  of 
him,  and  persuaded  the  gods  to  make 
him  immortal ;  but,  as  she  forgot  to 
ask  for  eternal  youth,  he  became  de- 
crepit and  ugly,  and  was  therefore 
changed  by  her  into  a  cicada. 

Tit'marsli,  Mi'chi-el  An'g-e-lo.  A 
pseudonym  under  which  Thackeray, 
for    a  series    of   years,    contributed 


tales,  essays,  and  sketches  to  "  Fra- 
ser's  Magazine,"  all  "  distinguished 
by  shrewd  observation,  exquisite 
.style,  and  the  jjlay  of  keen  wit  and 
delicate  irony  over  a  hard  and  jihil- 
osophic  meaning."  He  afterward 
]iublislied  .several  volumes  under  the 
same  name.  He  is  said  to  have  been 
called  '•  Michael  Angelo  "  l)y  a  friend 
who  admired  his  broad  shoulders  and 
massive  head,  and  to  have  added 
"Titmarsh  "  by  way  of  contrast  and 
depreciation. 

Let  whosoever  is  qualified  tell  forth  the 
peculiar  experiences  of  those  classes  [the 
fashioiiuble  classes]  in  any  serious  form  that 
may  he  possible;  and  let  what  is  ridiculous  or 
despicable  aiiiont;  them  live  under  the  terror 
of  Michael  Angtiu  Titinursh.  Masson. 

Titmouse,  Mr.  Tittlebat.  The  hero 
of  Warren's  "  Ten  Thousand  a 
Year;"  a  vulgar,  ignorant  coxcomb 
of  the  lowest  order,  a  linen-draper's 
shopman  suddenly  exalted,  through 
the  instrumentality  of  certain  rascal- 
ly attorneys,  who  discover  a  defect  in 
a'  pedigree,  to  the  third  heaven  of 
English  aristocracy. 

We  who  have  not  had  the  advantage  of 
personal  observation,  supposed  "gent."  to  be 
fitly  given  up  to  the  use  of  those  execrable 
aninials  who  are  the  trium|ilisof  John  Leech's 
pencil,  and  the  butts  of  his  gentlemen,  —  in 
short,  the  Tittlebat  Titmice  of  the  Englisli  jiart 
of  the  British  nation.  R.G.  White. 

Tit'y-re  Tiis.  Under  this  name,  and 
under  those  of  jNIuns,  Hectors,  Scour- 
ers, and  afterwards  Nickers,  Hawka- 
bites,  and  Mohawks,  dissolute  young 
men,  often  of  the  better  classes, 
SAvaggered  by  night  about  London, 
towards  the  latter  end  of  the  seven- 
teenth century,  breaking  windows, 
upsetting  sedans,  beating  quiet  cit- 
izens, and  rudely  caressing  pretty 
women.  Several  dynasties  of  these 
tyrants,  after  the  IJestoration,  accord- 
ing to  Macaulay,  domineered  over  the 
streets.  The  Tityre  Tus  took  their 
name  from  the  first  line  of  the  tirst 
Eclogue  of  Yirgil, — 

"  Tityre,  tu    patulae    recubans   sub    tegniine 
fagi." 

Tit'^-rus.  [Gr,  T.Tvpos,  a  Doric  fonn 
of  craTvpo?,  a  satvr.]  A  character  in 
Virgil's  first  Eclogue,  borrowed  from 
the  Greeks,  among  whom  this  wa-<  a 
common  shepherd's  name.  He  is 
thought  to  represent  Yirgil  himself. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


TIT 


368 


TOR 


Chancer  is  afft'ctionately  comniemo- 
ratt'd  iiiidur  tliis  iiit.ue  in  8peiiser's 
"  SlK'plienl's  Calendar." 

Heroes  iind  tlieir  feats 
Fatigued  ine,  never  weary  of  the  pipe 
Of  'iiti/rus,  assembling;,  as  lie  sang, 
The  rustic  throng  beneath  his  favorite  beech. 

C'owpcr. 

Tit'j-ns.  [(rr.  Tituo?.]  (  (^j\  (f  Rom. 
Mi/t/i.)  A  lanious  giant,  son  ot"  Jupi- 
ter and  Terra.  His  body  was  so  vast, 
tliat  it  covered  nine  acres  of  ground. 
For  attempting  tlie  chastity  of  Lato- 
na,  or,  as  some  say,  of  Diana,  lie  was 
punished  in  the  intiernal  regions  by 
having  two  vultures  or  serpents  kept 
feeding  upon  his  liver,  which  was 
made  to  grow  again  continually. 

Tizona  (te-tlHyna.  70).  The  name  of 
a  sword  of  the  Cid.  See  Cid,  The, 
and  Cola  DA. 

To'b^.  The  name  of  a  dog  in  the 
common  English  puppet-show  of 
"  Punch  and  Judy."     8ee  Punch. 

JS^  ■ '  In  some  versions  of  the  great 
drama  of '  Punch,'  there  is  a  small  dog.  — 
a  modern  innovation,  —  supposed  to  be 
the  private  property  of  that  gentleman, 
whose  name  is  always  Toby.  This  Toby 
has  been  stolen  in  youth  from  another 
gentleman,  and  fraudulently  sold  to  the 
confiding  hero,  who,  having  no  guile  him- 
self, has  no  suspicion  that  it  lurks  in 
others;  but  Toby,  entertaining  a  grate- 
ful recollection  of  his  old  master,  and 
scorning  to  attach  himself  to  any  new 
patrons,  not  only  refuses  to  smoke  a  pipe 
at  the  bidding  of  Punch,  but,  to  mark 
his  old  fidelity  more  strongly,  seizes  him 
by  the  nose  and  wrings  the  same  with 
violence;  at  which  instance  of  canine  at- 
tachment the  spectators  are  deeply  affect- 
ed." Dickens. 

Toby,  Uncle.     See  Uncle  Toby. 

Todd,  Lau'rie.  A  poor  Scottish  nail- 
malver,  —  the  hero  of  Gait's  novel  of 
the  :;ame  name,  fV)unded  on  the  auto- 
biography of  Grant  Thorburn,  —  Avho 
emigrates  to  America,  and,  after  some 
reverses  of  fortune,  begins  the  world 
again  as  a  backwoodsman,  and  once 
more  becomes  prosperous. 

Tod'gers,  Mrs.  M.  A  character  in 
Dickens's  novel  of  "  Martin  Chuzzle- 
wit;  "  the  proprietor  of  a  "  Commer- 
cial Boarding-House  "  in  London. 

Tora-a-lin.  The  same  as  Tom  TTiumb. 
See  Thumb,  To.m. 


fl®="  The  name  is  sometimes  written,  in 
ignorance  of  its  etymology,  Ttrin-a-Lm- 
coln.  An  old  liook,  formerly  very  popu- 
lar, relates '•  The  most  ple;isant  History 
of  Toin-a- Lincoln,  that  ever  renowned 
soldier,  tlie  Red  Rose  Knight,  surnamed 
the  Uoast  of  England,  showing  his  hon- 
orable victories  in  foreign  countries, 
with  liis  strange  fortunes  in  Faery  I^and, 
and  liow  he  married  the  fair  .\iigliterra, 
daughter  to  Prester  John,  that  renowned 
monarch  of  the  world."  It  was  written 
by  Richard  .Johnson,  and  was  entered  on 
the  books  of  the  Stationers'  Company, 
December  24,  1599. 

Tom,  Dick,  and  Harry.  An  appel- 
lation very  commonly  employed  to 
designate  a  crowd  or  rabble. 

Tomes,  M.  (mos'e-o'  to'ma').  A  char- 
acter in  Moliere's  "  L'Amour  Mede- 
cin." 

3r.  Tomis  liked  correctness  in  medical  prac- 
tice. JUucaulay. 

Tom  Long.     See  Lo.ng,  Tom. 

Tom  Noddy.  A  name  given  to  a 
fool,  in  various  parts  of  England. 

Tom  o'  Bedlam.  A  name  given  to 
wandering  medicants  discharged  from 
Bethlem  Hospital  on  account  of  in- 
curable lunacy,  or  because  their  cure 
was  doubtful. 

Tooley  Street,  The  Three  Tailors 
of.  See  Three  Tailors  of  Tduley 
Street. 

Toots,  Mr.  An  innocent,  honest,  and 
warm-hearted  creature  in  Dickens's 
'•  Dombey  and  Son,"  "  than  whom 
there  were  few  better  fellows  in  the 
w'orld."  His  favorite  saj-ing  is,  "  It's 
of  no  consequence." 

Topaz,  Sir.    See  Thopas,  Sir. 

Top'sy.  A  young  slave-girl  in  ^Irs. 
Stowe's  novel,  "  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin," 
who  is  made  to  illustrate  the  igno- 
rance, low  moral  development,  and 
wild  humor  of  the  African  character, 
as  well  as  its  capacity  for  education. 

The  book  was  not  deliberately  ninde:  but, 
like  Tojigij,  it  "growed."  R.  G.  White. 

Tormes,  Lazarillo  de  (la-th3-reei'yo 
da  tof'mes,  70,  82).  The  hero  of  a 
Spanish  novel  of  the  same  name,  by 
Diego  Hurtado  de  Mendoza  (d.  1575), 
a  novel  of  low  life,  the  first  of  a  class 
well  known  in  Spanish  literature  un- 
der the  name  of  the  gusto  picaresco, 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the   accompanying  Explanation^ 


TOT 


369 


TRI 


or  the  style  of  the  rogues,  and  made 
famous  'all  over  the  world  in  the 
brilliant  imitation  of  it,  Le  Sage's 
"Gil  Bias." 

Faithfully  executed,  [it]  woukl  exhibit  .  .  . 
the  type  ot'  the  iDW-iuimled,  luerry-iiiiikiiig, 
vulj;ar,  and  shallow  "  Yankee,"  tlic  ideal 
Yankee  in  whciiii  European  prejudices  tind, 
praeef'ullv  e()n\liined,  the  attractive  traits  of  a 
CJines  (U-"l':iss;iiiionte  and  a  Joseph  Surface,  a 
Liiznril/o  <U-  I'oniics  and  a  Scapin,  a  Thersites 
and  an  Antolyeus.  \V.  H.  Hwltjat. 

fot'ten-ham  in  Boots  (tot^tn-am). 
A  popular  toast  in  Ireland  in  the  year 
ny  1,  during  the  administration  of  the 
Duke  of  Dorset.  The  government, 
being  anxious  to  free  themselves 
from  the  control  of  the  Irish  jjarlia- 
ment,  attempted  to  obtain  a  grant  of 
the  supjjlies  for  twenty -one  years; 
but  they  were  out-voted  by  a  majority 
of  one.  The  casting  vote  was  given 
by  jNIr.  C.  Tottenham,  of  New  Koss, 
who  had  come  up  from  the  country 
without  having  had  time  to  change 
his  dress,  which  was  considered  a 
remarkable  breach  of  etiquette. 

Touchstone.  A  clown,  in  Shake- 
speare's "  As  You  Like  It." 

Arlecchino  is,  .  .  .  in  his  original  concep- 
tion, ...  a  buffoon  or  clown,  whose  mouth, 
far  from  being  eternally  closed,  as  amongst 
us,  is  filled,  like  thatof  ToucJisto/iP,  with  quips, 
and  cranks,  and  witty  devices,  very  often  de- 
livered extempore.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Touchwood,  Lady.  A  character  in 
"  The  Belle's  Stratagem,"  a  comedy 
by  i\Irs.  Crowley. 

The  Dorimants  and  the  Larli/  Touchwoods, 
in  their  own  sphere,  do  not  offend  my  moral 
sense;  in  fact,  they  do  not  appeal  to  it  at  all. 
Charles  Lamb. 

Touchwood,  Per'e-grlne.  A  touchy 
old  East  Indian,  who  figures  in  Scott's 
novel  of  "  St.  Ronan's  Well." 

That  Roswell  was  a  hunter  after  spiritual 
notabilities,  that  he  loved  such  and  longed  to 
be  near  them,  that  he  first  (in  old  Tniichirond 
Auchinleck's  phraseology)  "took  on  with 
Paoli,"  and  then  took  on  with  a  schoolmaster, 
that  he  did  all  this,  and  could  not  help  doing 
it,  we  count  a  very  singular  merit.        Carlyle. 

Tox,  Miss.  A  grotesque  character  in 
Dickens's  "  Dombey  and  Son;"  a 
little,  lean  old  maid,  of  limited  inde- 
pendence, and  "  the  very  pink  of  gen- 
eral propitiation  and  politeness." 

Tram,  Tom.  The  hero  of  an  old  work 
entitled  "  The  Mad  Pranks  of  Tom 
Tram,  Son-in-law  to  INIother  Winter; 
whereunto  is  added  his  Merry  Jests, 


Odd   Conceits,  and  Pleasant  Tales; 

very  deiighttul  to  read."  This  work 
was  prol)al>Iy  written  in  the  seven- 
teenth century.  It  was  for  a  long 
time  very  jjopular,  and  continued  to 
be  republished  until  within  thirty  or 
forty  years. 

All  your  wits,  that  fleer  and  sham, 
Down  from  Don  (Quixote  to  Tom  Tium. 

Frionr. 

Tranchera  (tran-kri'ra).  [It.,  from 
the  Fr.  (raiuhtr,  to  cut.]  The  name 
of  a  sword  of  Agricane,  which  after- 
ward came  into  the  possession  of 
Brandimart. 

Tra'ni-o.  A  servant  to  Lucentio, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew.'' 

Translator  General.  A  title  borne 
by  Philemon  Holland  (d.  1G36),  the 
translator  of  Livy,  Pliny,  Plutarch, 
Suetonius,  Xenophon,  and  other 
Greek  and  Latin  authors.  It  was 
given  to  him  by  Dr.  Thomas  Fuller, 
in  his  "  History  of  the  Worthies  of 
England." 

Trap'bois.  A  superannuated  usurer 
in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of  "  The 
Fortunes  of  Nigel,"  "  who  was  be- 
lieved, even  at  his  extreme  age,  to 
miderstand  the  plucking  of  a  pigeon 
as  well  [as],  or  better  than,  any  man 
of  Alsatia." 

It  was  as  dangerous  to  have  any  political 
connection  with  Newcastle  as  to  buy  and  sell 
with  old  Trapbois.  Macaulay. 

Trap'bois,  Martha.  A  cold,  decisive, 
masculine  woman  in  Scott's  "  For- 
tunes of  Nigel." 

Trav'ers.  A  retainer  of  the  Earl  of 
Northumberland,  in  the  Second  Part 
of  Shakespeare's  "  King  Henry  IV." 

Tre-mont'.  The  original  name  of 
Boston,  ^lassachusetts;  —  given  to  it 
on  account  of  the  three  hills  on  which 
the  city  Avas  built.  [Called  also  Tri- 
mountl or  Triiiunintdin.] 

e£g=-  By  many  persons  eirojieously  pro- 
nounced trem'ont,  or  tre-mont. 

Trim,  Corporal.  Uncle  Toby's  at- 
tendant, in  Sterne's  novel,  "  The  Lifo 
and  Opinions  of  Tristram  Shandy, 
Gent.;  "  distinguislied  for  his  fidelity 
and  aflnection,  his  respectfulness,  and 
his  volubility. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  alter  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxu. 

24 


TRI 


370 


TRI 


''  Trim,  instead  of  hoing  the  oppo- 
site, is,  in  liis  notions,  tlie  dupliciite  of 
Uncle  Toby.  Every  fresh  accession  of  tlie 
captain  s  niiliUiry  fever  infecreJ  tlie  cor- 
poral in  a  liki!  d^f^n*; ;  and,  ind<fd,  they 
keep  np  a  nuitnal  excitement,  wliicli  ren- 
ders them  lx>tn  more  en^^erin  thepiirsnit 
than  eitlu-r  would  have  heen  without  tlie 
otlier.  Yet,  with  an  identity  of  dispo- 
sition, the  (•haracti.T  of  tue  common  .sol- 
dier is  nit-ely  disci-iuiiiiat.ed  from  tiiat  of 
th>'  offlc^^r.  Uis  whole  carriaj^e  bears 
traces  of  the  drill-yard,  which  are  want 
ing  in  tlie  superior.  Under  the  name  of  i 
a  servant,  he  is  in  reality  a  companion  ; 
and  he  is  a  delightful  mixtui-e  of  famil- 
iarity in  the  essence  and  the  most  deter- 
ential  respect  in  forms.  Of  his  simplicity 
and  humanity,  it  is  euougli  to  say  that 
he  was  worthy  to  walk  beiiind  his  mas- 
ter." ELwin. 

Selkirkshire,  though  it  calls  the  author 
Sheriff",  has  not,  like  the  kingdom  of  Bohemia, 
in  Covijorul  Trim's  story,  a  seaport  in  its  cir- 
cuit. Sir  IV.  JScott. 

Trimmers.  A  memorable  set  of  jx)li- 
ticians  contemptuously  so  called  by 
the  two  great  parties  in  the  time  of 
"William  III.  The  chief  of  this  junto 
was  Halifax,  wlio  assumed  the  nick- 
name as  a  title  of  honor,  and  warmly 
rindicated  its  dignity,  because,  as  he 
remarked,  every  thing  good  '  trims  ' 
between  extremes. 

Triiic'u-lo.  A  jester,  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Tempest.'' 

Conscious  that  a  miscarriage  in  the  matter 
would,  like  the  los«  of  Trineido'^  bottle  in  the 
horse -pool,  be  attended  not  only  with  dis- 
honor, but  with  infinite  loss,  slie  determined 
to  proceed  on  her  hitrh  emi)rise  with  as  much 
caution  as  was  consistent  with  the  attempt. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Trinity  Jones.  A  sobriquet  ofAVil- 
liam  .Tones,  of  ^'ayland  (1726-1800), 
distinguished  for  his  treatises  in  de- 
fense of  tiie  doctrine  of  the  Trinity, 
and  also  for  having  originated  "  The 
British  Critic." 

Trin'o-vSLnt,  or  Trin'o-van'tun?. 
An  old  name  of  London,  corrupted 
from  Trojd  Xiiva  (New  Troy),  the 
name  given  to  it  by  Brutus,  a  legend- 
ary or  mythical  king  of  England,  who 
is  said  to  have  been  the  founder  of 
the  city,  and  the  great-grandson  of 
./Eneas  [Written  also  Tri  noban  t 
and  T  r  0  y  n  o  V  a  n  t.] 

For  noble  Britons  sprone;  from  Trojans  bold. 
And  Trniinovant  was  built  of  old  Troy's  ashes 
cold.  Spenser. 


Triple  Alliance.  (Tli^t.)  1.  A  treaty 
entered  into  in  1G88,  by  Great  Britain, 
Sweden,  and  the  United  i'rovinces, 
for  the  i)urpose  of  checking  the  am- 
bition ot  Louis  XIV.  of  1- ranee. 

2.  A  ticaty  between  (ieorge  I.  of 
ICngland,  the  United  Provinces,  and 
Philip,  Duke  of  Orleans,  regent  of 
France,  designed  to  counteract  the 
plans  of  Alberoni,  the  Spanish  minis- 
ter.    It  was  signed  in  1717. 

Trip-tol'e-mus.  [Gr.  TpiTrToAe/uo?.] 
( (y/-.  cj-  Rniii.  Jfijt/i.)  A  favorite  of 
Ceres,  who  taught  him  husbandry. 
He  was  a  gre-at  hero  in  the  Eleusinian 
mysteries.  I'lato  makes  him  one  of 
the  j  udges  in  the  lower  world. 

Trissotin  (tres^so'ta"',  G2).  [That 
is.  Thrice  tixjl,  or  Fool  cid)ed,  Irom 
tri,  thrice  (used  in  comixisition),  and 
sot,  fool,  blockhead.]  The  name  of 
a  poet  and  coxcomb  in  Moliere's 
comedy,  "  Les  Femnies  Savantes." 

J^^  Under  this  character,  Moliere  sat- 
irized the  Abbe  Cotin,  a  personage  who 
affected  to  unite  in  him.'Jelf  the  rather  in- 
consistent characters  of  a  writer  of  poems 
of  gallantry  and  of  a  powerful  and  excel- 
lent preacher.  His  dramatic  name  was 
originally  Tricotin.  which,  as  too  plainly 
pointing  out  the  individual,  was  softened 
into  Trissotin. 

We  hardly  know  any  instance  rtf  the  streng:th 
and  weakness  of  human  nature  .--o  strikinjr 
and  so  grotesfiue  as  the  character  of  tlii^ 
haiighty,  vigilant,  resolute,  sagacious  blue 
stocking  [Frodciick  the  Great],  half  Mithri- 
dates  and  half  7Ws.«o//«,  bearing  up  ajrainst  i 
world  in  arms,  with  an  ounce  of  poison  in  on^ 
pocket,  and  a  quire  of  bad  verses  in  the  oth- 
er. Jfacuulay. 

Tris'traLm,  Sir.  One  of  the  most 
celebrated  heroes  of  mediaeval  ro- 
mance. His  adventures  form  an 
episode  in  the  history  of  Arthur's 
court,  and  are  related  by  Thomas  the 
Rhymer,  as  well  as  by  many  mman- 
cists.  He  is  noted  for  having  been  the 
seducer  of  his  uncle's  wife.  Tradi- 
tion long  ascribed  to  him  the  laws  reg- 
ulating the  practice  of  venery,  or  the 
chase,  which  were  deemed  of  much 
consequence  dinnng  the  Middle  Ages. 
See  IsoLDK.  [Written  also  Tris- 
tan, T  r  i  s  t  r  e  m.] 

j^^  ''  The  original  meaning  of  the  name 
is  said  to  have  been  imisf.  tunnilt ;  but, 
from  the  influence  of  I>atin  upon  Welsh, 
it  came  to  mean  sad.     In  Europe,  it  reg- 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompauyiiij;  Explanation^ 


TRI 


371 


TRU 


ul.irly  entered  the  ranks  of  the  names  of 
sorrow,  and  it  was,  no  doubt,  in  allusion 
to  it,  that  Don  Quixote  accepted  the  so- 
briquet of 'The  Knight  of  the  Rueful 
Countenance.""'  Yungr.  In  '•  Morte 
d'Arthur."'  the  iiauie  is  explained  as  sij^ 
nifviii"^  sorroiv/'ul  birt/i,  and  is  said  to 
have  been  s^iven  to  Tristram  by  his  moth- 
er, who  ilied  almost  as  soon  as  she  had 
brought  him  into  the  world. 

"Thou  canst  well  of  wood-craft,"  said  the 
kiiiK  after  a  paiis>e  ;  "and  hast  started  tliy 
panic  and  brouj^ht  him  to  bay  as  ably  as  if 
Tristram  himself  had  taught  thee." 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Tri'ton.  [Gr.  TptTtoi'.]  ( Gr.  (j-  lioin. 
Mjjtli.)  A  powerful  .sea-deity,  son  of 
Neptune  antl  Amphitrite;  a  green- 
haired  being,  with  the  upper  part  of 
the  body  human,  and  the  hiwer  jiart 
that  of  a  fish.  At  the  bidding  of  his 
father,  he  blows  througii  a  shell  to 
rouse  or  calm  the  sea.  Later  writers 
speak  of  a  plurality  of  Tritons. 

Great  God!  I'd  rather  be 
A  pagan  suckled  in  a  creed  outworn; 

So  niijibt  I,  st mdin^;  on  this  pleasant  lea. 
Have  glimpses  that  would  make  me  less  for- 
lorn ; 
Have  sight  of  Proteus  coming  from  the  sea. 
Or  hear  old  Triton  blow  his  wreathed  horn. 

Wor(/sworth. 

Triv'5-ga.nt.  The  same  as  Terin't(/aiit, 
a  supi>v.sed  deity  of  the  iMohainine- 
dans,  whom  our  early  writers  seem  to 
have  confounded  with  pagans.  See 
Tekmagant. 

Triv'i-a.  [Lat.,  from  ter  (in  composi- 
tion </7),  three,  and  rm,  way.]  (Jiom. 
Mijth.)  A  name  given  to  l)iana,  be- 
cause her  temples  were  often  erected 
where  .hree  roads  met. 

Troil,  Brenda.     See  Btenda. 

Troil,  Magnus.  A  character  in  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  novel  of  "  The  Pi- 
rate;" a  Zetlander  of  wealth  and 
rank,  but  of  neglected  education, 
brought  up  among  inferiors  and  de- 
pendents, and  having,  in  consequence, 
both  the  vices  and  the  virtues  natu- 
rally produced  by  such  limited  social 
intercouree. 

Troil,  Minna.     See  Minna. 

Tro'i-liis.  [Gr.  TowiAo?.]  (  Gr.  (f-  Rnm. 
Jfi^th.)  A  son  of  Priam  and  Hecuba, 
slain  by  Achilles.  He  is  the  hero 
of  Chaucer's  poem  of  "  Troilus  and 
Cresseide,"  and  Shakespeare's  i)lay 
of  "  Troilus   and  Cressida."     There 


is  no  trace  of  the  stcry  of  Cressida 
among  the  ancients. 

tks"  "  This  [the  vehement  passion  of 
Cressida]  Shakespeare  has  contrasted 
with  the  profound  alfection  represented 
in  Troilus,  and  alone  worthy  the  name 
of  love:  affection,  passionate  indeed, — 
swollen  with  the  continence  of  youthful 
instincts  and  youthful  fancy,  and  grow- 
ing in  the  radiance  of  hope  newly  risen, 
in  short,  enlarged  by  the  collective  sym- 
pathies of  nature, — but  still  having  a 
depth  of  calmer  element  in  a  will  stronger 
than  desire,  more  entire  than  choice, 
and  which  gives  permanence  to  its  own 
act  by  converting  it  into  faith  and  duty. 
Hence,  with  excellent  judgment,  and  with 
an  excellence  higher  than  mere  judgment 
c-in  give,  at  the  close  of  the  play,  when 
Cressida  has  sunk  into  infamy  below  re- 
trieval and  beneath  hope,  the  same  will 
which  had  been  the  substance  and  the 
basis  of  his  love,  while  tiie  restless  pleas- 
ures and  passionate  longings,  like  sea 
waves,  had  tossed  but  on  its  surface, — 
this  same  moral  energy  is  represented  as 
snatching  bim  aloof  from  all  neighbor- 
hood with  her  dishonor,  from  all  lin- 
gering fondness  and  languishing  regrets, 
while  it  rushes  with  him  into  other  and 
nobler  duties,  and  deepens  the  channel 
which  his  heroic  brother's  death  had  left 
empty  for  its  collected  tiood.'    Coleridge. 

Tro-pho'ni-us.  [Gr.  Tpo-fiwi'ios.]  ( Gr. 
if  Rom.  Mijth.)  A  celebrated  archi- 
tect who,  with  his  brother  Agamedes, 
is  said  to  have  built  the  temple  of 
Apollo  at  Delphi.  After  death,  he 
was  worshiped  as  a  hero,  and  had  a 
famous  oracle  in  a  cave  near  Lebadia, 
in  Boeotia,  which  was  entered  only 
in  the  night. 

Trotwood,  Mrs,  Betsy.  A  kind- 
hearted  but  ogreish-mannered  aunt, 
in  Dickens's  novel  of  ''  David  Cop- 
perfield." 

Triil'li-ber,  Parson.  A  fat  clergy- 
man in  Fielding's  "Adventures  of 
Joseph  Andrews;"  noted  for  his  ig- 
norance, seltishness,  and  sloth. 

Trun'nion,  Commodore  Hawser 
(trun'yun).  The  name  of  an  eccentric 
naval  veteran  in  Smollett's  novel, 
"  The  Adventures  of  Peregrine  Pick- 
le." He  is  represented  as  having 
retired  from  service  in  consefjuence 
of  injuries  received  in  engagements; 
yet  he  retains  his  nautical  and  mil- 
itary habits,   keeps  garrison   in   hi* 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  tlie  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xzxii. 


TRY 


37: 


TWE 


house,  which  is  defcndcil  by  a  ditch 
and  cntcn'(i  tliroii^^di  a  draw-bridge, 
obliges  liis  servants  to  sleep  in  ham- 
mocks and  to  take  turns  on  watch 
all  the  year  round,  and  indulges  his 
luinior  in  \ari(»us  other  odd  ways. 

Try'a-mour',  Sir.  Tlie  hero  of  an  old 
metrical  romance,  and  a  model  of  all 
kniglitly  virtues  and  good  qualities. 

Tu'bai.  A  Jew,  friend  to  Sh^vlock,  in 
Shakespeare's  "  Merchant  of  Venice." 

Tuck,  Friar.     See  Fhiak  Tuck. 

Txilk'ing-horn,  Mr.  A  lawyer  in 
Dickens's  novel  of  "  Bleak  House," 
in  possession  of  family  secrets  which 
are  of  no  importance  to  any  body, 
and  which  he  never  divulges. 

Finiilly,  it  is  said  to  the  phonotype,  in  the 
words  of  Tii!/iiii;//iom,  "  1  tell  J'ou,  I  do  not 
Iik.3  tiie  company  yuu  keep."         Thomas  Hill. 

Tupman,  Tracy.  A  character  in 
Dickens's  "  Pickwick  Papers;"  rep- 
resented as  a  member  of  the  Pick- 
wick Club,  and  as  a  person  of  so 
susceptible  a  disposition  that  he  fell 
in  love  with  every  pretty  girl  he  met. 

Turcaret  (tiif'ka./ra',  34).  A  charac- 
ter in  a  comedy  of  the  same  name  by 
Le  Sage;  a  coarse  and  illiterate  man 
who  has  grown  rich  by  stock  opera- 
tions. The  name  is  proverbially  ap- 
plied to  anyone  who  grows  suddenly 
rich  by  means  more  or  less  dishonest, 
and  who,  having  nothing  else  to  show, 
makes  a  display  of  his  wealth. 

Turk  Gregory-  The  name  given  by 
Falstatf,  in  Shakespeare's  historical 
play,  "  1  Henry  IV^."  a.  v.,  sc.  8,  to 
Pope  Gregory  VII.  (the  belligerent 
Hildebrand),  who  became  a  by- word 
with  the  early  reformers  for  vice  and 
enormity  of  every  description. 

Turnip-hoer.  A  nickname  given  to 
George  I.,  because,  it  is  said,  Avhen 
he  tirst  went  to  England,  he  talked 
of  turning  St.  James's  Park  into  a 
turnip  ground. 

Tur'nus.  A  king  of  the  Rutidi  in 
Italy,  slain  in  single  combat  by 
^neas,  who  was  his  rival  for  the 
hand  of  Lavinia,  daughter  of  King 
Latinus.    See  Lavinia,  1. 

Turpentine  State.  A  popular  name 
for  the  State  of  North  Carolina,  which 


produces  and  exports  immense  quan- 
tities of  turpentine. 
Tur'pin,  Dick.  A  noted  English  felon, 
executed  at  York,  for  horse-stealing, 
April  10,  \l-y.).  His  celebrated  ride 
to  York,  on  his  steed  lilack  Hess,  is 
graphically  described  in  Ainsworth's 
'•  liookvvood,"  but  a  great  portion  of 
the  description  is  said  to  tiave  been 
written  by  Maginn. 

Tur'vey-drop,  Mr.    A  character  in 

Dickens's  novel  of  ''  Bleak  House;" 
represented  as  living  upon  the  earn- 
ings ot  his  son,  who  lias  a  most  slav- 
ish reverence  lor  him  as  a  perfect 
''  master  of  deportment.  ' 

Tu'ti-vilTus.  An  old  name  for  a 
celebrated  (h-mon,  who  is  said  to  have 
collected  all  the  fragments  of  words 
Avliich  the  })riests  had  skipped  over 
or  mutilated  in  the  pertormaiice  of 
the  service,  and  to  have  carried  them 
to  hell. 

Twelve  Apostles  of  Ireland.  A 
name  given  to  twelve  Irish  prelates 
of  the  sixth  century,  who  appear  to 
have  formed  a  sort  of  corporation, 
and  to  have  exercised  a  kind  of  juris- 
diction or  su))eriiitendeiice  over  the 
other  ecclesiastics  or  "•  saints"  of  the 
time.  They  were  disciples  of  St. 
Finnian  of  Clonard. 

;g£g=  Their  names  were  as  follows :  1. 
Ciaran,  or  Kierau,  Bishop  and  Abbot  of 
Saitrhir  (now  Seir-Keirau,  King's  Coun- 
ty ) ;  2.  Ciaran,  or  Keiran.  Abbot  of  Cloni- 
naenois  ;  3.  Coluni-cille  (or  St.  Colum- 
ba)  of  Hy  (now  lona) :  4.  Hrendan,  Bish- 
op and  Abbot  of  Clonfert ;  5.  Brendan, 
Bishop  and  Abbot  of  Birr  (now  Parsons- 
town,  King's  County):  H.  Coluniba,  Ab- 
bot of  Tirdaglas;  7.  Molaise.  or  Laisre, 
Abbot  of  Damhiris  ( now  Devenish  Island, 
in  Lough  Erne);  8.  Caiuuech,  Abbot  of 
Aichadhbo,  Queen's  County  ;  9.  Kuadan, 
or  Hodau,  Abbot  of  Lorrha,  Tipperary 
County  ;  10.  IMobi  Clairenech,  or  the 
Flat-f  iced.  Abbot  of  Glasnooidhan  (now 
Glasiievin,  near  Dublin) :  11.  Senell,  Ab- 
bot of  Cluaia-inis,  in  Lough  Erne:  12. 
Nannath,  or  Nennith.  Abbot  and  Bishop 
of  Inisuiuige-Samh  (now  Inisuiac-Saint), 
in  Lough  Erne. 

Twelve  Peers.  Famous  warriors 
of  Charlemagne's  court;  —  so  called 
from  the  e(juality  which  reigned 
among  them.  They  were  also  termed 
'•  paladins,"  a  term  originally  signi- 


fBST  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronuuciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


TWI 


373 


TYR 


fying  officers  of  the  palace.  Their 
names  are  not  always  j^ivcn  alike  by 
the  romancers.  The  most  famous  of 
them  were  Orlando,  IJinaldo,  Astol- 
fo.  Oliver,  O.^ier  le  l)anois,  lianelon, 
Florismart,  >samo,  Otuel,  l"erumbras, 
Mala^"iyi.  8ee  these  names. 
Twickenham,  .Bard  of.     See  Baku 

OK     I'WU  KKN'HAM. 

Twist,  Oliver.  The  hero  of  Dickens's 
novel  of  the  same  name;  a  yjoor  boy 
born  and  brought  up  in  the  work- 
house of  an  Eniilish  village,  starved, 
beaten,  and  abused  by  every  body, 
but  always  preserving  a  saint -like 
purity  and  lovableness,  even  under 
circmnstances  of  the  deepest  misery, 
and  when  surrounded  by  the  very 
worst  of  evil  influences. 

Twitcher,  Harry.  A  sobriquet 
popularly  given  to  Lord  (Henry) 
Brougham  (b.  1778),  on  account  of 
a  partial  chorea,  or  tic,  in  the  muscles 
of  liis  face. 

Don't  you  recollect,  North,  some  years  ago, 
that  Murray's  name  was  on  our  title-t)a<;c; 
and  tliat,  being:  alarmed  for  Subscription 
Jamie  [Sir  James  Mackintosh]  and  llariii 
Twitcher,  lie  took  up  his  pen,  and  scratched 
his  name  out,  as  if  he  had  been  emperor  of 
the  West  signing  an  order  for  our  execution  ? 
Noclex  Anihrosiaiue. 

Twitcher,  Jemmy.   1.  The  name  of  a 

character  in  Gay's  "  Beggar's  Opera." 

2.   A    nickname    triven    to    John, 

Lord  Sandwich  (17]'8-1792),  by  his 

contemporaries. 

When  sly  Jemmy  Twitcher  had  smugged  up 

his  face 
With  a  lick  of  court  whitewash  and  pious 

grimace, 
A-wooing  he  went  where  three  sisters  of  old. 
In  harmless  society,  guttle  and  scold.      Gray. 

Two  Eyes  of  Greece,  The.  A  name 
piven  by  the  ancients  to  Athens  and 
Sparta,  the  most  celebrated  of  all  the 
Grecian  cities. 

Behold, 
Where  on  the  ^gean  shore  a  city  stands. 
Built  nobly;  pure  the  air,  and  light  the  soil; 
Athens,  the  eye  of  Greece,  mother  of  arts 
And  eloquence,  native  to  famous  wits 
Or  hospitable.  Milton. 

Two  Kings  of  Brentford,  The.  See 

Bkentf<>i;l),  The  Two  Kings  or. 
Two-shoes,    Goody.      See    Goody 

Two-shoes. 
Tyb'ait.     A  nepliew  to  Lady  Capulet, 

in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Romeo 

and  Juliet." 


Were  we  to  judge  of  their  Btrcugth  in  other 
resjiects  from  tlic  efforts  of  their  writers,  we 
should  esteem  tliem  very  unwortliy  of  Ury- 
den's  satire,  and  exclaini,  as  Tybalt  does  to 
Benvolio, — 

"What!  art  thou  drawn  among  these  heart- 
less hinds  'i  "  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Ty-bur'ni-a.  [A  Latinized  form  of 
Ti/jtirn.]  A  cant  or  popular  name 
given  to  the  Portnuui  and  Grosvenor 
Square  districts  in  London. 

Ty'deus.  [Gr,  TuSer?.]  (  Gr.  cf  Bom. 
.Vijih.)  A  son  of  QMieus,  king  of 
Calydon,  and  father  of  Diomedes. 
lie  was  one  of  the  seven  chiels  who 
besieged  Thebes,  where  he  greatly 
distinguished   himself.     See    Seven 

AGAIMST  ThEHES. 

Ty--di'des.  [Gr.  TuSecSrj?.]  (Gr.  <f 
Rniti.  Mi/fh.)  xV  patronymic  of  Dio- 
medes, the  son  of  Tydeus.     See  Di- 

OMEI). 

Tyn-da're-us  (9).  [Gr.  TwSdpeoq.] 
{Gr.  (|'  Jldin.  Myth.)  A  king  of 
Sparta,  husband  of  Leda,  and  the 
reputed  father  of  Castor  and  Tollux. 
See  Castor 

Tyn-dar'i-dae.  [Gr.  Oi  Tw^apiBai.'] 
{Gr.  if  Rom.  Myth.)  A  patronymic 
of  Castor  and  l^ollux,  the  sons  of 
Tyndareus.     See  Castor. 

Tyne'man.  [That  is,  losing  man.] 
A  surname  given  to  Archibald  IV., 
Earl  of  Douglas,  from  his  many  mis- 
fortunes in  battle. 

Ty'phon.  [Gr.  Tv(f)J,.'.]  1.  (Gr.  <f 
Jioiii.  Myth.)  A  famous  fire-breath- 
ing giant,  struck  by  Jupiter  with  a 
thunderbolt,  and  buried  under  Mount 
^tna.  [Written  also  T  y  p  h  o  e  u  s 
(ti-tb'us).] 
2.     See  Osiris. 

Tyr  (ter,  or  ter).  (Scand.  Myth.)  A. 
son  of  Odin,  and  younger  brother  of 
Thor.  He  was  a  warrior  deity,  and 
the  protector  of  champions  and  brave 
men;  he  was  also  noted  for  his  sagac- 
ity. When  the  gods  wished  to  bind 
the  Avolf  Fenrir,  Tyr  put  liLs  hand 
into  the  demon's  mouth  as  a  pledge 
that  the  bonds  should  be  remo\  ed 
again.  But  Fenrir  found  that  the 
gods  had  no  intention  of  keeping 
their  word,  and  revenged  himself  in 
some  degree  by  biting  the  hand  off. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certaiu  words  rcter,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


UGG 


374 


UNO 


U. 


tJggero  (ood-ja'ro).  See  Ogier  le 
Danois. 

Ugolino  (oo-go-le'no).  [It  Uj/olino 
(it  Glierdrdesclii.]  A  l^isaii  noble  of 
the  thirteenth  century,  and  leader  of 
the  Guelphs.  Haviiij^  been  defeated 
in  an  encounter  with  Archbishop 
Kuggieri,  a  leader  of  the  Ghibelline 
faction,  he  is  said  to  have  been  im- 
prisoned, togir'tiier  with  his  sons,  in 
the  tower  of  the  Gualandi  (since 
called  the  Tower  of  Iluni^er),  where 
they  were  left  to  starve,  the  keys 
having  been  thrown  into  the  Arno. 
Dante  has  immortalized  the  name 
and  sutierings  of  Ugolino.  He  is 
represented  as  voraciously  devouring 
the  head  of  Kuggieri,  in  hell,  where 
they  are  l)oth  frozen  up  together  in  a 
hole  in  a  lake  of  ice. 

Nothing  in  history  or  fiction  —  not  even  the 
story  whicli  Ugolino  told  in  the  se-i  of  ever- 
lasting ice  —  aijproaches  the  horrors  which 
were  recounted  by  the  few  survivors  of  that 
night  [spent  in  the  Black  Hole  of  Calcutta]. 

Macaula>/. 

Woe  to  him  who  has  found 
The  meal  enoujrh:  if  UqoUiio's.  full, 
His  teeth  have  crunched  some  foul,  unnatural 

thins. 
For  here  satiety  proves  penury 
More  utterly  irremediable. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Browning. 

Ulen-Spiegel    (oo'len-spe'gel).      See 

OWLE-GLASS,  TyLL. 

Ulivieri  (oo-le-ve-a'ree).  See  Oli- 
ver, 1. 

tQ'lur  {or  twl'loor).  (Scnml  Mijth.) 
A  warlike  deity  who  presided  over 
single  combats,  archery,  and  the 
chase.  He  was  accustomed  to  run 
so  rapidly  on  snow-shoes,  that  no  one 
was  a  match  for  him.  [Written  also 
Ullur  and    Ullr.] 

Ul-ri'ca.  A  hideous  old  sibyl  in  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  "  Ivanhoe.'" 

tJ-lys'ses.  [Gr.  'oSuo-treu?.]  ( Gr.  cf 
Rnni.  .Miith.)  A  son  of  Laertes,  king 
of  Ithaca;  husband  of  Penelope,  and 
father  of  Telemachus;  distinguished 
above  all  the  (ireeks  at  the  siege  of 
Troy  tor  his  cralt  and  eloquence.  On 
liis  way  back  to  Ithaca,  atter  the  fall 


of  Troy,  he  was  exposed  to  incredible 
dangers  and  misfortunes,  and  at  last 
reached  home  without  a  single  com- 
panion, after  an  absence  of  twenty 
years.  His  adventures  form  the  sub- 
ject of  Homer's  "Odyssey."  Seo 
CiKCE,    TENKLorE,  and    Tolyphe- 

MLS. 

tJ'nS.  A  lovely  lady  in  Spenser's 
"  Faery  Queen,"  intended  as  a  per- 
sonification of  Truth.  The  name 
Una  signifies  o«c,  and  refers  either  to 
the  singleness  of  purpose  characteris- 
tic of  truth,  or  to  the  singular  and 
unique  excellence  of  the  lady's  char- 
acter.    See  iiED-CHoss  Knight. 

Tlie  gentle  lady  married  to  the  Moor, 
And  heavenly  Wuay.'ith  her  milk-white  lamb. 
Wordsworth. 

Mindful  oft 
Of  tliee,  whose  genius  walketh  mild  and  soft 
As  UmCx  lion,  chainless  ti>ow};li  subdued. 
Beside  thy  puritj"  of  womanhood. 

J/r.s-.  /•.'.  B.  Browning. 

Uncle  Sam.  A  Jocular  or  vulgar  name 
of  the  United  States  government. 

/J®=  '•  Immediately  after  the  lastdecla- 
ratiou  of  war  with  England,  Elbert  An- 
derson, of  New  York,  then  a  contractor, 
visited  Troy,  on  the  Hudson,  where  was 
concentrated,  and  where  he  purchased, 
a  large  quantity  of  provisions,  —  beef, 
pork,  &c.  The  inspectors  of  these  arti- 
cles, at  that  place,  were  Messrs.  Ebenezer 
and  Samuel  Wilson.  The  latter  gentle- 
man (invariably  known  as  '  Uncle  8am') 
generally  superintended  in  person  a  large 
number  of  workmen,  who.  on  this  occa- 
sion, were  employed  in  overliauling  the 
provisions  purchased  by  the  contractor 
for  the  arinv.  The  casks  were  marked 
'  K.  A.  —  U.  S.'  This  work  fell  to  the  lot 
of  a  fax^etious  fellow  in  the  employ  of  the 
Jlessrs.  Wilson,  who.  on  being  asked  by 
some  of  his  fellow-workmen  the  meaning 
of  the  mark  (for  the  letters  U.  S.,  for 
United  States,  were  tlien  almost  entirely 
new  to  them),  said  '  he  did  not  know,  un- 
less it  meant  Klbert  Anderson  and  Uncle 
Sam,'  — alluding  exclusively,  then,  to  the 
said  '  Uncle  Sam  '  Wilson.  The  joke  took 
among  the  workmen,  and  passed  cur- 
rently ;  ami  '  Uncle  Sam  '  himself,  being 
present,  was  nccasio'ially  rallied  by  them 
on  the  increasing  extent  of  bis  posses- 
sions.    .  .   .  Many  of  these  workmen,  be- 


ll^* For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Fronuaciation,"  with  the   accuuipauyin^  Explanation^ 


UNC 


375 


UNI 


ing  of  a  oharacter  denominato(i  '  food  for 
powder,'  wore  found,  sliortly  after,  fol- 
lowing the  rocniiting  drum,  ami  jiushing 
toward  the  frontier  liuos,  for  the  double 
purpose  of  meeting  the  enemy  and  of  eat- 
ing the  provisions  they  had  lately  labored 
to  put  in  good  order.  Their  old  jokes  ac- 
conipauied  tlieni,  and  before  tlie  first  cam- 
paign ended,  this  identical  one  first  ap- 
peared in  print;  it  gained  favor  rapidly, 
till  it  penetrated,  and  was  recognized,  in 
every  part  of  the  country,  and  will,  no 
doubt,  continue  so  while  the  United 
States  remain  a  uatiou."  Frost. 

Uncle  To'b^.  The  hero  of  Sterne's 
novel,  "  The  Lite  and  Opinions  of 
Tristram  Shandy,  Gent. ;"  represented 
as  a  captain  who  had  been  wounded 
at  the  siege  of  Naniur,  and  forced  to 
retire  from  the  service.  He  is  cele- 
brated for  his  kindess  and  benevo- 
lence, his  courage,  gallantry,  and  sim- 
plicity, no  less  than  for  his  extreme 
modesty,  his  love-passages  with  the 
Widow  Wadman,  and  his  military- 
tastes,  habits,  and  discussions.  It  is 
thought  that   he   was  intended  as  a 

f)ortrait  of  Sterne's  father,  who  was  a 
ieutenant  in  the  army,  and  whose 
character,  as  sketched  by  his  son,  is 
the  counterpart  of  Uncle  Toby's. 

iK^  *'  But  what  shall  I  say  to  thee, 
thou  quintessence  of  the  milk  of  human 
kindness,  thou  reconciler  of  war  (as  far 
as  it  was  once  necessary  to  reconcile  it), 
thou  returner  to  childhood  during  peace, 
thou  lover  of  widows,  thou  master  of 
the  best  of  corporals,  thou  whistler  at 
excommunications,  thou  high  and  only 
final  Christian  gentleman,  thou  pitier  of 
the  Devil  himself,  divine  Uncle  Toby  I 
Why,  this  I  will  say.  made  bold  by  thy 
example,  a-nd  caring  nothing  for  what 
any  body  may  think  of  it  who  does  not,  in 
Bome  measure,  partake  of  thy  nature, 
that  he  who  created  thee  was  the  wisest 
man  since  the  days  of  Shakespeare  ;  and 
that  Shakespeare  himself,  mighty  reflect- 
or of  things  as  they  were,  but  no  antici- 
pator, never  arrived  at  a  character  like 
thine."  Leigh  Hunt. 

JS^=-  "  My  Uncle  Toby  is  one  of  the 
finest  compliments  ever  paid  to  human 
nature.  He  is  the  most  unoffending  of 
God's  creatures ;  or.  as  the  French  ex- 
press it,  iin  tel  petit  bonhnmnif .'  Of  his 
bowling-green,  his  sieges,  and  his  amours, 
who  would  say  or  think  any  thing  amiss?  " 

Hazlitt. 

Uncle  Tom.  The  hero  of  Mrs.  Har- 
riet Beecher  Stowe's   novel  entitled 


"  T'f'ncle  Tom's  Cabin ;  "  a  negi  o  slave, 
distinguished  for  unatf'ected  piety  and 
the  faithful  discharge  of  all  his  duties. 
His  master,  a  humane  man,  Ijrcomes 
embarrassed  in  his  atfairs,  and  sell.s 
him  to  a  slave-dealer.  After  passing 
through  various  hands,  and  sutier- 
ing  great  cruelties,  he  tinds  relief  in 
death. 
Underground  Railroad.  A  popular 
embodiment  of  the  various  wavs  in 
which  fugitive  slaves  from  the  South- 
ern States  of  the  American  Union 
were  assisted  in  escaping  to  the 
North,  or  to  Canada,  before  the  abo- 
lition of  slavery  took  place;  often 
humorously  abbreviated  U.  G.  li.  R. 

Undertaker,  The  General.  See 
Genekal  Undertaker,  The. 

Undertakers.  Parties  in  the  Irish 
parliament,  in  the  last  century,  who 
bargained  with  the  government  to 
carry  its  measures,  and  who  received 
in  return  places,  pensions,  and  profit- 
able jobs. 

Un-dine'  or  Un'dine  (  Ger.pron.  oon- 
de'na).  The  name  of  a  water-nymph 
who  is  the  heroine  of  La  Motte  Fou- 
que's  romance  of  the  same  name,  one 
of  the  most  delightful  creations  of 
German  tiction.  Like  the  other  wa- 
ter-nymphs, she  was  created  without 
a  soul,  which  she  could  gain  only  by 
marriage  with  a  mortal  By  such 
marriage,  however,  she  became  sub- 
ject to  all  the  pains  and  miseries  of 
mortal  men. 

Unfortunate  Peace.  (Hist.)  The 
peace  of  Cateau  -  Cambresis  (April 
2,  1559),  negotiated  by  England, 
France,  and  Spain.  By  this  treaty, 
Henry  II.  of  France  renounced  all 
claim  to  Genoa,  Corsica,  and  Naples, 
agreed  to  restore  Calais  to  the  Eng- 
lish within  eight  years,  and  to  give 
security  for  hve  hundretl  thousand 
crowns  in  case  of  failure. 

U^nl-gen'i-tus.  ( Ecclesiastical  Hist. ) 
The  name  given  to  a  famous  bull 
issued  by  Pope  Clement  XL.  in  1713, 
against  the  French  translation  o+'  the 
New  Testament,  with  notes  by  Pas- 
quier  Quesnel,  priest  of  the  Oratory, 
and  a  celebrated  Jansenist.  The 
bull  began  with  the  words,  "  Uniyeni- 


and  for  the  Reniarkd  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


UNI 


376 


UTF 


tus  Dei  Filius,'^  and  hence  the  name 
given  to  it. 

Unique,  The.     Ste  Only,  The. 

Universal  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Uiuri'isdlis.]  1.  An  honorary  title 
given  bv  his  admirers  to  Alain  de 
Lille  (1114-120.3),  one  of  the  greatest 
divines  of  his  age. 

2.  A  designation  applied,  in  allu- 
sion to  his  extensive  and  profound 
learning,  to  Thomas  Aquinas  (1227- 
1274).  See  Angelic  Doctor  and 
Dumb  Ox. 

Unlearned  Parliament.     See  Pau- 

LIAMENT  OK  DUNCES. 

U-ra'ni-a.  [Gr.  Ovpavia.]  ( Gi\  cf- 
Jiom.  Myth.)  One  of  the  Muses;  the 
one  who  presided  over  astronomy. 

U'ra-nids  (0).  [Gr.  Oupai-iSai.]  {Gr. 
(^''Eum.^Myih.)  The  descendants  of 
Uranus;  by  some  identitied  with  the 
Titans.     See  Titan. 

U'ra-nus  (9).  [Gr.  Ovpavo?.]  {Gr. 
Myth.)  One  of  the  most  ancient  of 
the  gods,  husband  of  Tellus  or  Terra, 
and  father  of  Saturn;  the  same  as 
the  Ccelus  of  the  Kumans. 

tiTrban,  Sylvanus,  Gent.  The  ficti- 
tious name  under  which  the  "  Gen- 
tleman's Magazine  "  is  edited,  and  by 
which  is  expressed  its  universality 
of  town  and  country  intelligence. 

True  histories  of  last  year's  ghost, 

Lines  to  a  ringlet  or  a  turban. 
And  trifles  for  tlie  "  Morning  Post," 
And  nothing  for  Si/lvauus  Urban. 

Praed. 

Here,  through  Suh'anus  Urban  himself,  are 

two  direct  glimpses,  a  twelvemonth  nearer 

hand,  which  show  us  how  the  matter  has  been 

proceeding  since.  Carlyle. 

Urganda  (oof-gan'da).  The  name  of 
a  potent  fairy  in  the  romance  of 
'*  Aniadis  de  Gaul,"  and  in  the  ro- 
mances of  the  Carlovingian  cycle  and 
the  poems  founded  upon  them.  In 
the  Spanish  romances  relating  to  the 
deecendants  of  Amadis.  she  is  in- 
vested with  all  the  more  serious  ter- 
rors of  a  Medea. 

This  Urgiinrla  seemed  to  be  aware  of  her 
own  importance,  and  perfectly  acquainted 
with  the  iiuman  appetite.  "         SmoUett. 

This  ancient  Urganda  perceived  m^v  dis- 
order, and,  apjjroaching  with  a  languishing 
air,  sei7,ed  my  hand,  asking  in  a  squealcing 
tone  if  I  was  indisposed.  Smolleti. 

We  will  beat  about  together,  in  search  of 


this  Urganda,  .  .  .  who  can  read  this,  th« 
riddle  of  thy  fate,  better  tlian  .  .  .  Cassandra 
herself.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Urian,  Sir  (yoo'rt-an,  9:  Ger.  pron. 
()()'ri--tin).  [Ger.  /Jtrr  Uiifin.'\ 
Among  the  (jcrnmns,  a  sportive  des- 
ignation of  a  man  who  is  very  little 
thought  of,  or  who  is  sure  to  turn  up 
miexpectedly  and  inoiiportunely.  In 
Low  German,  the  najue  is  applied  to 
the  Devil. 

U'ri-el  (9).  [FIcb.,  fire  of  God.]  An 
angel  mentioned  in  the  second  book 
of  /is'lrag.  Milton  makes  him  "re- 
gent of  the  sun,"  and  calls  him  "  the 
sharpest-sighted  spiiit  of  all  in  heav- 
en." 

Ur'sa  Ma'jor.  A  nickname  given  by 
Boswell,  the  father  (Lord  Auchiu- 
lech),  to  Dr.  .Johnson. 

i^"  "  My  father's  opinion  of  Dr.  .7ohn- 
son,"  says  his  bioi^rapher.  '•  niav  be  con- 
jectured from  the  name  he  afterwards 
gave  hiui.  which  was  '  Ursa  Major.'  But 
it  is  not  true,  as  has  been  reported,  that 
it  was  in  consequence  of  my  saying  that 
he  was  a  constellation  of  genius  and  lit- 
erature." Goldsmith  remarks  :  "  John- 
>on.  to  be  sure,  has  a  roughness  in  his 
manner ;  but  no  man  alive  has  a  more 
tender  heart.  He  has  nothing  of  the 
bear  but  his  skiu." 

Ur'su-la.  A  gentlewoman  attending 
on  Hero,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Much 
Ado  about  Nothing." 

Useless  Parliament.  [Lat.  Pnrlin- 
mentuiii  Viinuin.']  {Ejk/.  fJ'ist.)  A 
name  given  to  the  first  parliament 
held  in  the  reign  of  Charles  I.  It 
met  June,  18,  162.5,  adjourned  to  Ox- 
ford, August  1,  on  account  of  the 
plague,  and,  having  oft'ended  the 
king,  was  dissolved  on  the  12th  of  the 
same  month. 

Utgard  (mjf'gard).  [Old  Xorse,  outer 
ward  or  inclosure.]  {Scaml.  }fyt1i.) 
A  circle  of  rocks  surrounding  the 
vast  ocean  supposed  to  encompass 
the  earth,  whicli  was  regarded  as  a 
flat  circular  plane  or  disk;  the  abode 
of  the  Giants ;  the  same  as  Jotun- 
heim. 

Utgard  -  Loki  (dot'gafd-lo'kee). 

{Sca7ui.  Myth.)  The  king  of  Utgard, 
and  chief  of  the  Giants.     See  Loki. 

U'ther.      Son  of  Constans,  one  of  the 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


UTO 


377 


UTO 


fabulous  or  legendary  kings  of  Brit- 
ain, and  the  father  of  Arthur.  See 
Igekna. 

And  what  resounds 
In  fable  or  romance  of  Uther's  son. 
Begirt  with  British  and  Annoric  knights. 

Milton. 

Mythic  Uther's  deeply  wounded  son. 
In  some  fair  space  of  sloping  greens, 

Lay,  dozing  in  the  vale  of  Avalon, 
And  watched  by  weeping  queens. 

7'ennyson. 

TJ-to'pi-a.  [From  Gr.  ov,  not,  and 
TOTTo?,  a' place.]  A  term  invented  bv 
Sir  Thomas  More  (1480-1535),  and 
applied  by  him  to  an  imaginary 
island  which  he  rey)resents  to  have 
been  discovered  by  a  companion  of 
Amerigo  Vespucci,  and  as  enjoying 
the  utmost  perfection  in  laws,  poli- 
tics, &c.,  in  contradistinction  to  the 
defects  of  those  which  then  existed 
elsewhere.  The  name  has  now  passed 
into  all  the  languages  of  Europe  to 
signify  a  state  of  ideal  perfection. 


S^  "  Tho  second  bonk  .  .  .  p:ives  a 
geographical  description  of  the  island; 
the  relations  of  tlu^  iiiliabitaiits  in  social 
life,  their  magistrates,  their  arts,  their 
systems  of  war  and  relij^ion.  On  the  lat- 
ter subject,  —  which  could  iiardly  be  ex- 
pected from  the  practice  of  the  author, 
—  the  most  unbounded  toleration  is 
granted.  The  greater  part  of  tiie  inhab- 
itants believed  in  one  Spirit,  all  powerful 
and  all-pervading ;  but  others  practiced 
the  worship  of  heroes  and  tlie  adoration 
of  st:irs.  A  community  of  wealth  is  a 
fundamental  principle  of  this  republic, 
and  the  structure  [isj  wh:it  might  be  ex- 
pected from  such  a  basis."  Dunlup. 

4@=  "  That  he  [Sir  T.  More]  meant  this 
imaginary  repuljlic  seriously  to  embody 
his  notions  of  a  sound  system  of  govern- 
ment, can  scarcely  be  believed  by  any 
one  who  reads  it  and  remembers  t\\;\t  tho 
entirely  fanciful  and  abstract  existtnce 
there  depicted  was  the  dream  of  one  who 
thoroughly  knew  man  in  all  his  compli- 
cated relations,  and  was  deeply  conversant 
in  practical  government." 

J.  H.  Burton. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Bales  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxlL 


VAD 


378 


VAN 


V. 


Vadius  (vn'de-iis',  102).  The  name 
of  a  grave  and  heavy  pedant  in 
Moliere's  comedy,  "  Les  Femnies  Sa- 
vantes." 

jge^  The  character  of  Vadius  is  sup- 
posed to  be  a  satire  on  Menaf^e.  an  eccelesi- 
astic  celebrated  for  his  learning  and  wit. 
It  is  said,  however,  that  Menage  bore  the 
attack  upon  his  pedantry  with  sue)i  per- 
fect good  humor  and  good  sense  that  Mo- 
liere  always  refused  to  acknOAlcdge  that 
he  had  tuken  him  for  his  model  in  con- 
structing the  character  of  Vadius. 

Varen-ttne.  1.  One  of  the  heroes  in 
the  old  romance  of  "  Valentine  and 
Orson,"  which  is  of  uncertain  age 
and  authorship,  though  it  probably 
belongs  to  the  tifteenth  century.  See 
Okson. 

Do  not  thuik  vou  will  meet  a  gallant  J'^alen- 
tine  in  every  E!ngUsh  rider,  or  an  Orson  in 
every  Highland  drover.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

2.  One  of  the  "  Two  Gentlemen 
of  Verona,"  in  Shakespeare's  play  of 
that  name. 

3.  A  gentleman  attending  on  the 
Duke  in  Shakespeare's  "  Twelfth 
Night." 

4.  One  of  the  characters  in 
Goethe's  "  Faust."  He  is  a  brother 
of  Margaret,  whom  Faust  has  seduced. 
Maddened  by  his  sister's  shame,  he 
interrupts  a  serenade  of  Faust's,  at- 
tacks him,  is  stabbed  by  Mephistoph- 
eles,  falls,  and  expires  uttering  vehe- 
ment reproaches  against  Margaret. 

Val-halll.  [Icel.  valhoIJ,  hall  of  the 
slain,  from  mfr,  slaughter,  and  holl.  a 
roval  hall.  Old  Saxon  and  Old  High 
Ger.  hnlln.]  {Scnul.  Myth.)  The 
palace  of  immortality,  inhabited  by 
the  souls  of  heroes  slain  in  battle. 
[Written  also  V  a  1  h  a  1 1  and  W  a  1- 
halla.] 

Val-kjh:''i-or,  or  ValTcyrs.  [Old 
Nor.se  valkyrjfi,  from  vnle.  crowds  of 
slain,  and  klnra,  kern,  to  select:  A.- 
S.  vdlcyrie,  (ier.  Wnrlkiiren,  Walky- 
ren,  or  W(ilkyrien.'\  {ScnwL  Mytli.) 
Beautiful  and  awful  maidens,  messen- 
gers of  Odin,  who  visit  fields  of  bat- 


tle to  carry  off  to  Valhalla  the  souls 
of  hero-es  who  fall.  At  the  banquets 
of  Valhalla,  they  hand  round  to  the 
guests  mead  and  ale.  [Written  also 
V  a  1  k  y  r  i  a  s.] 

Valley  of  Humiliation.  In  Bun- 
van's  ''  Pilgrim's  Progress,"  a  valley 
m  which  Christian  was  attacked  by 
Apollyon,  who  nearly  overpowered 
him,  but  was  at  length  wounded  and 
put  to  tiight. 

Valley  of  the  Shadow  of  Death.  In 

the  ''Pilgrim's  Progress"  of  John 
Bunyan,  the  valley  through  which 
Christian,  after  his  encounter  with 
Apollyon,  was  obliged  to  pass  on  his 
way  to  the  Celestial  City.  "Now 
this  valley  is  a  very  solitary  place ; 
the  prophet  Jeremiah  thus  describes 
it:  'A  wilderness,  a  land  of  deserts 
and  pits,  a  land  of  drought,  and  of 
the  Shadow  of  Death,  a  land  that 
no  man'  (^but  a  christian)  'passeth 
through,  and  where  no  man  dwelt.'  " 
See  Psalm  xxiii.  4. 

One  wonld  have  thought  Inverary  had 
been  the  Vallei/  of'  the  Shadoir  of  Death,  the 
inferior  chiefs  showed  such  reluctance  to  op- 
proach  it.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Van-dyck'  of  Sculpture.  A  desig- 
nation conferred  upon  Antoine  Coy- 
sevox  (1640-1720).  a  French  sculptor, 
on  account  of  the  beauty  and  anima- 
tion of  his  figures. 

V&-nes'sa.  [Compounded  of  Vim^ 
the  first  syllable  of  Vanhomrigh,  and 
Essn^  diminutive  of  Esther.'\  A  po- 
etical name  given  by  Swift  to  i\Iiss 
Esther  Vnnhomrigh,  a  young  lady 
who  had  fallen  in  love  with  him  and 
proposed  marriage.  How  her  decla- 
ration of  affection  was  received  is  re- 
lated in  Swift's  poem  of  "  Cadenus 
and  Vanessa."     See  Cadenus. 

Vanity.  1.  An  established  character 
in  the  old  moralities  and  puppet- 
shows. 

2.  A  town  in  Bunyan's  "  Pilgrim's 
Progress,"  on  the  road  to  the  Celes- 
tial Citv. 


IS"  For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


VAN 


379 


VEN 


^''anity  Fair.  In  Bunvan's  spiritual 
allegory,  "  The  Pilgrim's  Frogrt'ss," 
the  name  of  a  fair  which  was  held 
all  the  year  round  in  the  town  of 
Vanity.  "  It  beareth  the  name  be- 
cause the  town  wliere  it  is  kept  is 
lighter  than  vanity  {Ps.  Ixii.  D),  and 
also  because  all  tiiat  is  there  sold, 
or  that  Cometh  thither,  is  vanity." 
Thackeray  has  made  use  of  this  name 
as  the  title  of  a  satirical  novel. 

^^  The  orij^in  and  history  of  this  fair 
are  thus  described  :  *'  Almost  live  thou- 
sand years  ago  tliere  were  pilgrims  walk- 
ing to  the  Celestial  City,  and  Heijlzebuh, 
Apollyou,  and  Legion,  with  tlieir  com- 
panious,  perceiving  by  the  path  that  the 
pilgrims  made  that  tlieir  way  to  the  city 
lay  through  this  town  ot  Vanity,  they 
contrived  here  to  set  up  a  fair,  —  a  fair 
wherein  should  be  sold  all  sorts  of  van- 
ity, and  that  it  should  last  all  the  jear 
long.  Therefore,  at  this  fair  are  all  such 
merchandise  sold  as  houses,  lands,  trades, 
places,  honors,  preferments,  titles,  coun- 
tries, kingdoms,  lusts,  pleasures ;  and 
delights  of  all  sorts,  as  harlots,  wives,  hus- 
bands, children,  lives,  blood,  bodies,  souls, 
silver,  gold,  pearls,  precious  stones,  and 
what  not.  And,  i.oreover,  at  this  fair 
there  is,  at  all  times,  to  be  seen  jugglings, 
cheats,  games,  fools,  knaves,  rogues,  and 
that  of  every  kind.  And,  as  in  other 
fairs  of  less  moment,  there  are  several 
rows  and  streets,  under  their  proper 
names,  where  such  and  such  wares  are 
Vended,  so  here,  likewise,  you  have  the 
proper  places,  rows,  streets,  (namely, 
countries  and  kingdom?,)  where  the 
■wares  of  this  fair  are  soonest  to  be  found. 
.  .  .  Now,  as  I  said,  the  way  to  the  Celes- 
tial City  lies  just  through  this  town 
where  this  lusty  fair  is  kept ;  and  he 
that  would  go  to  the  city  and  yet  not  go 
through  tliia  town,  must  needs  go  out  of 
the  world." 

I  char<re  you  to  withdraw  your  feet  from 
the  dolusioii  fpf  Miat  Vmiiti/  Fair  in  whilk  ye 
arc  n  snionnu'r.  nnd  nfittogoto  tlu'ir  worship, 
whilk  is  an  'll-nnimhled  mass,  as  was  wed 
termed  by  James  the  Sext.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Va'pi-a,ns.  A  name  —  probably  a 
feigned  one  —  occurring  in  Shake- 
speare's "  Twelfth  Night,"  a.  ii.,  so. 

3.      See  PlOROGROMITUS. 

Va-ri'n&^.  A  poetical  name  given  by 
Swift  to  ]Mi«s  Jane  Warv^ng,  for 
whom,  in  earlv  life,  he  professed  an 
attachment.  It  is  a  Latinized  form 
of  War\'ng. 

Va-rO'na,    (Hindu  Myth.)    The  ruler 


of  the  ocean;  represented  as  a  white 
man  riding  on  a  sea-monsler,  with  a 
clul)  in  ouL!  hand  and  a  rope  in  the 
other. 
Vath'ek.  The  hero  of  William  Beck- 
tbrd's  celebrated  novel  ol  llie  same 
name ;  a  haughty  and  etleminate  mon- 
arch, led  on  by  the  temptations  of  a 
malignant  genie,  and  the  sojjhistries 
of  a  cruel  and  ambitious  mother,  to 
commit  all  sorts  of  crimes,  to  abjure 
his  faith,  and  to  oiler  allegiance  to 
Eblis,  the  ]\Iohanimedan  Satan,  in 
the  hope  of  seating  himself  on  the 
throne  of  the  pre-Adamite  sultans. 

_  We  saw  men,  who,  not  jet  in  the  vigor  of 
life,  were  hliDn^  with  its  plcnstnes  ;  men 
with  the  poisoned  youth,  ra///eA-like,  to  tind 
themselves  someday  with  fires,  unquenchable 
and  agonizing,  in  "the  place  of  those  liearta 
they  had  silenced,  perverted,  and  destroyed. 
Fidnum's  Mug. 

Ve  (vee,  or  va).  (Scand.  Myth.)  One 
of  the  three  deities  who  took  part  in 
the  creation  of  the  world ;  a  brother 
of  Odin  and  Vili. 

Veal,  Mrs.  An  imaginary  person 
whom  De  Foe  feigned  to  have  ap- 
peared, "  the  next  day  after  her 
death,  to  one  Mrs.  Bargrave,  at  Can- 
terbury, on  the  8th  of  Sept.,  1705," 
—  one  of  the  boldest  and  most  adroit 
experiments  upon  human  credulity 
that  ever  was  made. 

VegKantino  (vSl-ySn-te'no,  77).  The 
name  of  Orlando's  horse. 

Venerable  Bede.  See  Bede,  The 
Venerable. 

Venerable  Doctor.  [Lat.  Docfnr 
Venerabi.lis.]  A  title  given  to  Wil- 
liam de  Champeanx,  a  celebrakd 
philosopher  and  theologian  of  the 
twelfth  century,  regarded  as  the  first 
public  professor  of  scholastic  divinity, 
and  the  founder  of  scientific  realism. 

Venerable  Initiator.  [Lat.  Venernb- 
i/is  Inceptor.]  An  honorary  appel- 
lation conferred  upon  William  of 
Occam  (d.  1-347),  a  famous  English 
scholastic  philosopher. 

Venice  of  the  "West.  A  name  some- 
times given,  rather  inappropriately, 
to  Glasgow,  the  chief  cit}'  of  Scot- 
land. 

A  bird  proper,  on  the  shield  ardent  of  the 
city  of  Glasgow,  has  been  identified  with  tlie 
resuscitated  pet  of  the  patron    saint.      The 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


YEN 


380 


VET 


♦ree  on  which  it  is  there  perched  is  a  com- 
memoration of  another  of  tlie  saint's  niiia- 
cles.  .  .  .  Anotiier  clement  in  the  blazon  of 
the  Venice  o/'the  IVest  is  a  fisli,  laid  across  tlie 
stem  of  the  tree,  "  in  base,"  as  the  heralds  say. 
J.  li.  Burton. 

Ve'nus.  {Gr.  (f  Rom.  MyfJi.)  The 
goddess  of"  love  and  beauty,  said  to 
have  sprung  I'roni  the  loam  of  tlie 
sea.  She  was  the  wife  of  tlie  de- 
formed biaclvsmith  Vulcan,  but  was 
not  remarkable  for  her  lidelity  to 
him.  Her  amour  with  Adonis  is  par- 
ticularly celebrated.  By  the  Trojan 
Anchises,  she  became  the  mother  of 
^neas,  and  hence  was  regarded  by 
the  Iiomans  as  the  progenitor  of  their 
nation.     See  JiixEAS. 

Ve'nus-berg.  See  Eckiiardt,  The 
Faithful. 

Ver'ges  (4).  A  watchman  and  night- 
constable,  in  Shakespeare's  "  Much 
Ado  about  Nothing,"  noted  for  his 
blundering  simplicity. 

Vermilion  Sea.  A  name  formerly 
given  to  the  Gulf  of  California,  on 
account  of  the  red  color  of  the  infu- 
soria it  contains. 

Ver'non,  Die  {nr  Di-an'a).  The  he- 
roine of  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel  of 
''Rob  Roy;"  a  young  girl  of  great 
beauty,  talents,  and  excellence  of 
disposition,  to  which  are  superadded 
pride  of  high  birth,  and  the  enthusi- 
asm of  an  adherent  to  a  persecuted 
religion  and  an  exiled  king.  She  is 
excluded  from  the  ordinary  wishes 
and  schemes  of  other  young  ladies 
by  being  predestined  to  a  hateful 
husband  or  a  cloister,  and  by  receiv- 
ing a  masculine  education,  imder  the 
superintendence  of  two  men  of  talent 
and  learning. 

?'"er-turQ'nus.  [Lat.,  from  veriere,  to 
turn,  to  change,  to  transform.]  {Rom. 
Myth.)  The  god  of  the  seasons,  and 
of  their  manifold  productions  in  the 
vegetable  world.  He  fell  in  love 
■with  Pomona,  and,  after  vainly  en- 
deavoring to  get  access  to  her  under 
a  thousand  different  forms,  at  last 
succeeded  by  assuming  the  appear- 
ance of  an  old  woman.  In  this 
guise,  he  recounted  to  her  lament- 
able stories  of  wrtmen  who  had  de- 
spised the  power  of  love ;  and,  when 


he  found  that  her  heart  was  touched, 
he  suddenly  metamorjjhosed  himself 
into  a  Iji-autiful  youtli,  and  jjersuaded 
her  to  marry  him. 

Very  Christian  Doctor.     See  Most 

Christian  Doctor. 
Very    Methodical     Doctor.       See 

M(jst  Metikjdical  Doctor. 

Very  Resolute  Doctor.  See  Most 
ResolutJ':  Dcjctor. 

Ves'ta.  [Gr.  'EcrTia.]  {Gr.  tf  Rom. 
Jli/th.)  A  daughter  of  Rhea  and 
Saturn,  and  sister  of  Ceres  and  Juno. 
She  was  the  goddess  of  fire,  and  she 
also  presided  over  tiocks  and  herds. 
Her  mysteries  were  celeljrated  by 
maidens,  called  vestal  virgins,  Avho 
kept  a  fire  constantly  burning  on  her 
hearth  or  altar,  and  who  were  re- 
quired to  lead  lives  of  perfect  purity. 

V6to,  M.  et  Mme.  (mos'e'^'  S  ma'- 
dam'  va'to').  Injurious  names  often 
given  by  the  anarchists  of  the  French 
Revolution  to  Louis  XV^I.  and  his 
queen,  Marie  Antoinette.  The  ex- 
pression originated  in  the  indignation 
of  the  people  at  the  veto  allowed  the 
king  on  the  resolves  of  the  National 
Assembly.  The  name  occurs  in  the 
celebrated  song,  "  La  Carmagnole," 
which,  with  the  accompanying  dance, 
was  performed  at  popular  festivals, 
executions,  and  outbreaks  of  popular 
discontent  during  the  Reign  of  Terror. 

That  is  the  piss  ve  have  brought  us  to.  And 
now  ye  will  breafc  the  prisons  and  set  Capet 
Velo  on  horseback  to  ride  over  us.        Carli/lc. 

Ve'tus.  A  nom  de  plume  of  Edward 
Sterling  (1773  -  1817),  an  English 
writer. 

flfg^  "  He  [Sterling]  now  furthermore 
opened  a  correspondence  with  the"  Times' 
Newspaper  ;  wrote  to  it,  in  1812.  a  ."series 
of  Letters  under  the  signature  of  Vetus 
voluntary  I^etters  I  .suppose,  without  pay- 
ment or  pre-ensragement,  one  successful 
Letter  calling  out  another;  till  YetiiSitnd 
his  doctrines  came  to  be  a  distin!;ui<h- 
able  entity,  and  the  business  amounted 
to  something.  Out  of  my  o\vn  earliest 
Newspiper  reading,  I  can  remember  th« 
name  Vetus  as  a  kind  of  editorial  backlog 
on  which  able  editors  were  wont  to  chop 
straw  nf)W  and  then.  Nay,  the  Letters 
were  collected  and  reprinted  ;  both  this 
first  series,  of  1812,  and  then  a  second  of 
next  year."  Carlyle 


tik^  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


VIA 


881 


VIC 


Vi'a  Dol'o-ro'sa.  [Lat.,  way  of  pain.  ] 
A  name  popularly  given,  since  the 
Christian  era,  to  the  road  at  .lenisa- 
lem  leading  from  the  Mount  of  Ol- 
ives to  (iolgotha,  which  Jesus  passed 
over  on  his  way  to  the  place  of  cruci- 
fixion. Upon  this  road  are  situated 
the  house  where  the  Virgin  Mary  was 
born;  the  church  erected  upon  the 
spot  where  she  fell  when  she  beheld 
Jesus  sink  under  the  weight  of  the 
cross;  the  house  of  St. Veronica,  upon 
whose  veil,  employed  to  wipe  away 
his  blood  and  sweat,  the  image  of  his 
face  was  miraculously  impressed;  and 
many  other  objects  consecrated  by 
Christian  traditions.  The  road,  which 
is  about  a  mile  in  length,  terminates 
at  the  Gate  of  Judgment. 

Vicar  of  Bray.  A  name  originally 
given  to  an  English  clergyman  who 
was  twice  a  Papist  and  twice  a  Prot- 
estant in  four  successive  reigns.  It  is 
now  commonly  applied  to  one  who 
deserts  his  party  when  it  is  no  longer 
for  his  safety  or  his  interest  to  remain 
in  it. 

4®=-  Bray  is  a  villaoje  in  Berkshire. 
"  The  vivacious  vicar  liereof."  says  Ful- 
ler, "  living  under  Henry  VIII.,  Edward 
VI.,  Queen  Mary,  and  Queen  Elizabeth, 
was  first  a  Papist,  then  a  Protestant, 
then  a  Papist,  then  a  Protestant  again. 
He  had  seen  .some  martyrs  burned  (two 
miles  off  )  at  Windsor,  and  found  this  fire 
too  hot  for  his  tender  temper.  This  vic- 
ar, being  taxed  by  one  for  being  a  turn- 
coat and  inconstant  changeling.  '  Not  so 
neither,'  said  he  ;  '  for,  if  I  changed  my 
religion,  I  am  sure  T  kept  true  to  my  prin- 
ciple, which  is  to  live  and  die  the  Vicar 
of  Bray.'  "'  According  to  Ilaydn,  the 
name  of  this  consistent  personage  was  Sy- 
mon  Symonds  ;  according  to  a  Mr.  Brome 
("  Letters  from  the  Bodleian,"'  vol.  ii., 
part  i.,  p.  100),  it  was  Simon  AUeyn,  or 
Allen.  The  former  is  said  to  have  held 
the  vicarage  from  1-533  to  1558  ;  the  latter 
from  1540  to  1588.  Another  statement 
gives  the  name  as  Pendleton  :  and  it  is  re- 
lated, tliat,  in  the  reign  of  Edward  VI., 
Lawrence  Sanders,  the  martyr,  an  honest 
but  mild  and  timorous  man,  having  ex- 
pressed a  feir  that  his  own  strength  of 
mind  was  not  sufficient  to  endure  the 
persecution  of  the  times.  Pendleton  an 
swered.  that,  for  himself,  he  would  see 
every  drop  of  his  fat  and  the  last  morsel 
of  his  flesh  consumed  to  ashes  ere  he 
would  swerve  from  the  faith  then  estab- 


lished. He,  however,  changed  with  the 
times,  saved  his  lat  and  his  flesh,  and  be- 
came rector  ot  St.  Stephen's,  whilst  tho 
mild  and  diffident  Sanders  was  burnt 
at  Smithfield.  Townsend  {•'  Manual  of 
Dates  ■')  says  that  the  story  in  regard 
to  the  Vicar  of  Bray  is  not  borne  out 
by  the  church  records,  the  living  not 
having  been  held  by  tlie  same  person  for 
so  long  a  period  as  that  required  to  prove 
the  truth  o*"  the  anecdote.  The  celebrat- 
ed song  of  the  "  Vicar  of  Bray,"  though 
founded  on  the  historical  fact,  makes  the 
vicar  a  subject  successively  of  Chailes 
II.,  James  II.,  William  III.,  Anne,  and 
George  I.,  and  a  political  as  well  as  re- 
ligious renegade.  It  is  .said  (Nichols' 
"  Select  Poems,"  1782,  vol.  viii.,  p.  234)  to 
have  been  written  by  an  officer  in  Colonel 
Fuller's  regiment,  in  the  reign  of  George  I. 

He  [Soult]  obeyed,  he  says,  not  as  in  any 
respect  an  enemy  of  the  kin^  [Louis  XVIII.J, 
but  us  a  citizen  and  a  soldier,  whose  duty  it 
was  to  obey  whomsoever  was  at  the  head'  of 
the  government,  us  that  of  the  Ficar  of  Bray 
subjected  him  in  ghostly  submission  to  each 
head  of  the  church  ^jro  tempore. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

Vicar  of  Clirist.  A  title  assumed  by 
the  pope  of  Rome,  who  claims  to  ex- 
ercise a  delegated  authority  as  the 
representative  or  vicegerent  of  Christ. 

Vicar  of  "Wakefield.  The  hero  of 
Goldsmith's  novel  of  the  same  name. 
See  PiUMRosE,  The  Rev.  Doctor. 

Thus  an  era  took  place  in  my  life,  almost 
equal  to  the  important  one  mentioned  by  the 
I  icar  of  WakeJithI,  when  he  removed  from 
the  Blue  room  to  the  Brown.        Sir  W.  Scott. 

Vice,  The.  A  grotesque  allegorical 
character  who  invariably  figures  in 
the  old  English  mysteries  and  moral- 
ities which  preceded  the  rise  of  the 
regular  modern  drama.  He  was  fan- 
tastically accoutered  in  a  long  jerkin, 
a  cap  with  ass's  ears,  and  a  dagger 
of  lath.  His  chief  employment  was 
to  make  sport  for  the  multitude  by 
leaping  on  the  back  of  the  Devil,  — 
another  personage  always  introduced 
into  these  plays,  —  and  belaboring 
him  with  his  dagger  till  he  roared. 
The  Devil,  however,  always  carried 
him  off  in  the  end.  He  bore  the 
name  sometimes  of  one  particular 
vice,  and  sometimes  of  another;  but 
was  generally  called  "  The  Vice," 
simply.  He  was  succeeded  in  his 
ofhce  by  the  fool  and  the  clown,  and 
is  now  best  remembered  by  the  allu- 
sions which  occur  in  the'  plays  of 


^d  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certam  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


VTD 


382 


ViR 


Shakespeare  to  his  character  and  of- 
lici'. 
Vidar(vo'(laf).  {Scnnd  Mylh.)  The 
god  of  wisdom  and  of  silence.  His 
look  is  so  penetrating  that  he  reads 
the  most  secret  thoughts  of  men. 
He  wears  very  thick  shoes,  and 
hence  is  sometimes  called  "  the  god 
■with  the  thick  shoes." 

VU.  (Scnnd.  Myth.)  The  brother  of 
Odin  and  Ve,  who,  with  him,  were 
the  progenitors  of  the  Asir  race. 

Vin-cen'ti-o  (vin-sen'sln-o).  1.  The 
Duke  of  Vieima  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Measure  for  Measure."  He  com- 
mits his  scepter  to  Angelo  (with 
whom  Escalus  is  associated  in  a  sub- 
ordinate capacity),  under  the  pre- 
text of  being  called  to  take  an  ur- 
gent and  distant  journey;  and,  by 
exchanging  the  royal  purple  for  a 
monk's  hood,  observes  incoynlto  the 
condition  of  his  people,  and  especial- 
ly the  manner  and  ett'ect  of  his  vice- 
gerent's administration. 

2.  An  old  gentleman  of  Pisa, 
in  Shakespeare's  "  Taming  of  the 
Shrew." 

Vinegar  Bible.  A  name  given  to 
an  edi'iioii  of  the  Bible  published  in 
1717  at  the  Clarendon  Press,  Oxtbrd. 
By  a  ludicrous  misprint,  the  title  of 
'the  twentieth  chapter  of  Luke  was 
made  to  read,  "  Parable  of  the  Viae- 
g'lr^''  instead  of,  "Parable  of  the 
Vineyard ;  "  hence  the  name. 

Viniand.  A  name  given,  according 
to  Snorro  Sturleson,  by  Scandina- 
vian voyagers,  to  a  portion  of  the 
coast  of  North  America  discovered 
by  them  toward  the  close  of  the 
tenth  century,  well  wooded,  and  pro- 
ducing agreeable  fruits,  particularly 
grapes.  It  is  thought  to  have  been 
some  part  of  the  coast  of  Massachu- 
setts or  Rhode  Island. 

"Vi'o-la.  A  lady  in  love  with  Duke 
Orsino,  in  Shakespeare's  "Twelfth 
Night." 

iKg="  "  As  for  her  situation  in  the  drama 
(of  which  she  is  properly  the  heroine),  it 
is.  shortly,  this:  She  is  shipwref^ked  on 
the  coast  of  lUyria:  she  is  alone,  and 
withoiit  protection,  in  a  .straii<re  countrv. 
She  wishes  to  enter  into  the  service  of  the 


Countess  Olivia ;  but  she  is  assured  that 
this  is  iuipossilile,  'for  the  lady,  having 
recently  lost  an  only  and  hek)ved  brother, 
has  abjured  the  sight  of  men.  has  shut 
herself  up  in  her  palace,  and  will  admit 
no  kind  of  suit."  In  this  perplexity.  Viola 
remembers  to  have  beard  her  father  speak 
with  praise  and  admiration  of  Orsino.  the 
duke  of  the  country  ;  and.  liaving  ascer- 
tained that  he  is  not  married,  and  that, 
therefore,  his  court  is  not  a  proper  asy- 
lum for  her  in  her  feminine  character, 
she  attires  herself  in  the  disguise  of  a 
page,  as  the  best  protection  against  un- 
civil comments,  till  she  can  gain  some 
ticJings  of  her  brother.  .  .  .  To  pursue 
the  thread  of  Viola's  destiny  :  she  is  en- 
gaged in  the  service  of  the  duke,  whom 
she  finds  '  fancy-sick  "  for  the  love  of 
Olivia.  We  are  left  to  infer  (for  so  it  is 
hinted  in  the  fii-st  scene)  that  this  duke 
.  .  .  had  already  made  some  impression 
on  Viola's  imagination  :  and  when  she 
comes  to  play  the  confidante,  and  to  be 
loaded  with  favors  and  kindness  in  her 
assumed  charaoter.  that  she  should  be 
touched  by  a  passion  made  up  of  pity, 
admiration,  gratitude,  and  tendernes.«, 
does  not.  I  tbiuk.  in  any  way  detract 
from  the  genuine  sweetness  and  delicacy 
of  her  character  ;  for  '  she  never  told  her 
love.''  .  .  .  Viola,  then,  is  the  chosen  fa- 
vorite of  the  enamored  dnke,  and  be- 
comes his  messenger  to  Olivia,  and  the 
interpreter  of  his  sufferings  to  that  inac- 
cessible beauty.  In  her  character  of  a 
^outhful  page,  she  attracts  the  favor  of 
Olivia,  and  excites  the  jealousy  of  her 
lord.  The  situation  is  critical  and  deli- 
cate;  but  bow  exquisitely  is  the  charac- 
ter of  Viola  fitted  to  her  part,  carrying 
her  through  the  ordeal  with  all  the  in- 
ward and  spiritual  grace  of  modesty." 

Mrs.  Jameson. 

Vi'o-len'ta.  A  character  in  Shake- 
speare's *'  All  's  Well  that  Ends 
Well." 

Violet,  Corporal,  or  Daddy.     [Fr. 

C'lpurnl  la  VioUtte.  or  Pupa  la  Vio- 
lette.]  A  name  given  to  the  em- 
peror Napoleon  Bonaparte,  by  his 
partisans  in  France,  after  his  banish- 
ment to  Ellta.  and  designed  to  be  ex- 
pressive of  their  hope  that  he  vronld 
return  in  the  spring  (of  1815).  The 
flower  and  the  color  were  publicly 
worn  by  them  as  a  party  distinction. 

Virginie  (vef'zhe'ne',  64).  The 
heroine  of  Bernardin  de  St.  Pierre's 
romance  entitled  "  Paul  et  Virginie," 
—  "a    tropical    Arcadian     romance 


03-  For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanations, 


VIR 


383 


VUL 


which  [for  a  time]  reigned  supreme 
over  French,  English,  and  German 
ima,i,Mnations  of  a  certain  caliber,  and 
rendered  the  name  Vlrginie  trium- 
phant in  France." 

Virgin  Modesty.  A  surname  given 
by  Charles  11.  to  the  Earl  of  Rochester 
(John  Wilmot),  because  he  blushed 
so  easily. 

Virgin  Queen.  An  appellation  pop- 
ularly given  to  t^ueen  Elizabeth 
(15:};J-1(J03).  She  may,  in  fact,  be 
said  to  have  assumed  it;  for,  on  the 
10th  of  February,  1559,  less  than 
three  months  after  her  accession  to 
the  throne,  in  a  speech  which  she 
made  to  the  privy  council  and  a 
deputation  from  the  house  of  com- 
mons, who  had  requested  her,  in  the 
name  of  the  nation,  to  be  pleased  to 
take  to  herself  a  husband,  she  said 
that  for  herself  it  would  be  enough 
"  that  a  marble  stone  should  declare 
that  a  (|ueen,  having  reigned  such  a 
time,  lived  and  died  a  virgin."  His- 
torians, however,  agree  that  her  right 
to  the  title  is  at  least  questionable, 
even  if  it  be  not  demonstrably  ill- 
founded.     See  Maiden  Queen. 

Virgins,  The  Eleven  Thousand. 
See  Eleven  Thousand  Virgins, 
The. 

Vish'nu  (6).  [Sansk.,  from  vish,  to 
pervade,  to  extend  through  nature.] 
(lliitda  Mijfh.)  One  of  the  chief 
deities  of  the  later  religion,  and  the 
second  person  of  the  holy  Trimurtl, 
or  triad;  regarded  as  the  preserver, 
while  Brahma  is  the  creator,  and 
Siva  the  destroyer.  He  accomplishes 
the  objects  of  his  providence  by  suc- 
cessive avatars  or  incarnations,  in 
which  he  appears  and  acts  on  earth. 
Nine  of  these  have  already  taken 
place;  in  the  tenth,  which  is  yet  to 
occur,  he  will  appear  on  a  white 
horse,  with  a  flaming  sword,  for  the 
everla>;ting  punishment  of  the  wicked. 
Buddha  and  .Juggernaut  are  both 
regarded  as  avatars  of  Vishnu. 

Vitalis  (ve-ta'lis).  A  name  assumed 
by  Erik  Sjuberg  (1794-1828),  a  dis- 
tinguished Swedish   lyric  poet.     By 


this  pseudonym  he  intended  to  con- 
vey the  notion  of  "  ViUi  /ts,"  Life  is  a 
struggle. 

Viv'i-an.  Mistress  of  the  enchanter 
Merlin.  She  forms  the  subject  of 
one  of  the  poems  in  Tennyson's 
"  Idylls  of  the  King."  See  Lady  of 
THE  Lake,  1,  Meki.in.  and  Lance- 
lot DU  Lac.  [Written  also  Viv- 
ien, V  i  V  i  a  n  a,  and  V  i  v  i  a  n  e.] 

Voland,  Squire  (Aylant,  56,  67). 
[Ger.  Junker  l^oldiuL]  Among  the 
Germans,  a  familiar  name  for  the 
Devil. 

Vol-po'ne.  [It.,  an  old  fox]  The 
title  of  a  play  by  Ben  Jonson,  and 
the  name  of  its  chief  character. 

Volscius,      Prince.      See     Pbinck 

VOLSCIUS. 

Voltaire,  The  German.    See  Ger- 

INIAN  VOLTAIHE. 

Voltaire,  The  Polish.     See  Polish 

VoLTAIKE. 

Vol'ti-mand.  The  name  of  a  courtier, 
in  Shakespeare's  tragedy  of  "  Ham- 
let." 

Volund  (vo'loont).  {Scand.  Afyth.) 
A  renowned  smith,  corresponding  to 
the  Vulcan  or  Diedalus  of  classical 
mythology.  Like  Vulcan,  he  was 
lame,  was  always  busy  at  the  forge, 
and  executed  all  kinds  of  smith-work, 
from  the  tinest  ornaments  in  gold 
to  the  heaviest  armor.  See  Way- 
land  Smith. 

Vor'tl-ger.  Seneschal  of  Constans  (a 
fabulous  king  of  Britain),  and  usurper 
of  the  throne  after  Constans  had  been 
killed  by  his  subjects. 

Vul'can.  \\^ni.Vidcanus.']  (Gr.if  Rom. 
}fyth.)  A  son  of  .Tupiter  and  Juno,  — 
according  to  some  accounts,  of  Juno 
alone,  —  and  the  husband  of  Venus. 
He  was  the  god  of  tire,  and  the 
patron  of  blacksmiths  and  all  workers 
in  metal.  His  workshop  was  sup- 
posed to  be  under  Mount  /Etna;  and 
there,  assisted  by  the  Cyclops,  he 
forged  the  thunderbolts  of  Jupiter, 
and  arms  for  the  gods  and  for  cele- 
brated heroes.     See  Mulciber. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Ruleb  to  which  the  numbera  after  certain  words  refer,  bee  pp.  xiv-zzziL 


WAD 


384 


WAR 


w. 


W^d'niSn,  "Widow.  The  name  of  a 
lady,  in  Sterne's  novel  of  ''  Tristram 
kShandy,"  who  tries  to  secure  Uncle 
Tobv  tor  a  husband. 

WaRner  (vak'nef,  58,  08).  The  name 
of  a  character  in  (ioethe's  ''  Faust." 
This  name  is  not  original  Avith  Goethe, 
but  was  borrowed  by  him  from  old 
legends,  in  which  it  occurs  under 
the  form  of  Cristoph  Wagner,  who 
is  represented  to  have  been  the  at- 
tendant, or  J'ainulus,  of  Faust. 

i8®^  "  Wagtier  is  a  type  of  the  philis- 
ter  and  pedant ;  he  .s;icrifices  himself  to 
books,  as  Faust  does  to  knowledge.  He 
adores  the  letter.  The  dust  of  folios  is 
his  element,  parchment  the  soui-ee  of  his 
inspiration.  .  .  .  lleisoneof  those  who,  in 
the  presence  of  Niagara,  would  vex  you 
with  questions  about  arrow-headed  in- 
scriptions ;  who.  in  the  presence  of  a  vil- 
lage festival,  would  discuss  the  origin  of 
the  i'elasgi."  Lewes. 

Wagon  Boy.  A  popular  sol^riquet 
of  riiomas  Corwiu  (1794- 1&65),  an 
American  statesman.  While  yet  a 
lad.  General  Harrison  and  his  army 
were  on  the  noi'thern  frontier,  almost 
destitute  of  provisions,  and  a  demand 
was  made  on  the  patriotism  of  the 
people  to  furnish  the  necessary  sub- 
sistence. The  elder  Corwin  loaded  a 
wagon  with  supplies,  which  were  de- 
livered by  his  son,  who  remained  with 
the  army  during  the  rest  of  the  cam- 
paign, and  who  is  said  to  have  proved 
himself  '"  a  good  whip  and  an  excel- 
lent reins-man." 

Wakefield,  Pindar  of.  See  George 
a-Gkkkn. 

"Walking  Stewart.  The  sobriquet 
of  ,lohn  Stewart,  an  English  traveler, 
born  in  the  tirst  half  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  died  in  1822.  This  cele- 
brated peripatetic  traveled  on  foot 
through  Hindostan,  Persia,  Nubia, 
Abyssinia,  the  Arabian  Desert,  Eu- 
rope, and  the  United  States. 

Sfn"  "  -^  most  interesting  man,  whom 
personally  T  knew  ;  eloquent  in  conversa- 
tion ;  conteniplative,  if  tlial  is  possible, 


in  excess  ;  crazy  beyond  all  reach  of  belle* 
bore  (three  Anticyrae  would  not  have 
cured  him),  yet  sublime  and  divinely 
benignant  in  his  visiouariness  ;  the  man 
who,  as  a  [ledestrian  traveler,  had  seen 
more  of  the  earth's  surface,  and  commu- 
nicated more  extensively  with  the  chil- 
dren of  the  earth,  than  any  man  before 
or  since  ;  the  writer,  also,  who  published 
-flore  books  (all  intelligible  Vjy  fits  and 
starts)  than  any  Englishman,  except, 
perhaps.  Hicliard  Baxter,  w^ho  is  said  to 
have  published  three  hundred  and  sixty- 
five,  jdiis  one.  the  extra  one  being,  proba- 
bly, meant  lor  leap-year. "'     De  Quincey. 

"Walpurgis  (val-poof'gis,  58,  G8).  The 
name  of  the  female  saint  who  con- 
verted the  Saxons  to  Christianity. 
May -day  night  is  dedicated  to  her, 
and  is  popularly  thought  to  be  the 
occasion  of  a  great  witch  festival  on 
the  summit  of  the  Brocken,  in  the 
Hartz  mountains,  —  a  superstition 
supposed  to  have  originated  in  the 
secret  celebration  of  heathen  rites,  in 
remote  places,  by  those  who  adhered 
to  the  ancient  faith  when  their  nation 
was  forcibly  converted  to  Christianity. 

"W^m'ba.  The  "  son  of  Witless,"  and 
the  clown  or  jester  of  Cedric  ofKoth- 
erwood,  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  "  Ivan- 
hoe." 

"Wandering  Jew.  See  Jew,  The 
Wandeking. 

Wantley,  Dragon  of.  See  Dkagon 
OF  Wantlev. 

"Ward,  Artemus.  A  pseudonym 
adopted  by  3Ir.  Charles  F.  Browne, 
an  American  humorist  of  the  present 
day,  author  of  a  series  of  popular 
comic  productions  purporting  to  be 
written  by  an  itinerant  showman, 
and  remarkable  for  their  perverse 
orthography. 

"War  of  1812.  (Amer.  Hist.)  A  name 
commonly  given  to  the  war  between 
the  United  States  and  Great  Britain, 
which  began  on  the  18th  of  June, 
1812,  and  ended,  Feb.  17,  1815,  on 
the  ratification  by  congress  of  the 
treaty   of  peace  concluded  at  Ghent 


For  the  "Key  to   the   Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


WAR 


385 


WAT 


on  the  24th  of  the  preceding  Decem- 
ber. 

War  of  Liberation.  (Ger.  Hist.) 
The  name  coimiionly  given  to  the 
war  undertaken  by  the  Germans,  in 
1813,  to  throw  ofi'the  French  yoke, 
in  consequence  of"  the  destruction  of 
Bonaparte's  grand  army  in  the  Rus- 
sian cam})aign  of  ]81"2. 

War  of  the  Barons.  {Enrj.  Hist.)  An 
insurrection  against  the  autliority  of 
Henry  III.,  wliicli  broke  out  in  1262, 
and  was  excited  by  liis  faithlessness 
and  the  oppressions  of  his  favorites. 
The  barons  were  headed  by  Simon  de 
Montfort,wluxse  death,  in  12G5,  at  the 
battle  of  Evesham,  occasioned  their 
submission. 

War  of  the  Seven  Captains.  See 
Seven  against  Thebes. 

War  of  the  Succession.  (Tlist.)  A 
celebrated  struggle  between  Eng- 
land, France,  Austria,  and  the  Unit- 
ed I'roviuces,  to  determine  whether 
Philip,  Duke  of  Anjou  (grandson  of 
Louis  XIV.  of  F>ance),  or  the  Arch- 
duke Charles  (son  of  the  lunperor 
Leopold  L),  should  succeed  to  the 
throne  of  Spain,  left  vacant  by  the 
death  of  Charles  IL  It  commenced 
^lay  4,  1702,  and  ended  with  the 
peace  of  Utrecht,  March  13,  1713,  by 
■which  Philip  was  acknowledged  and 
confirmed  as  king.  The  contest  was 
signalized  by  the  splendid  achieve- 
ments of  the  Duke  of  ^Marlborough. 

War  of  the  Three  Henries.  ( Fr. 
Hist.)  A  war  between  Henry  III. 
king  of  France,  Henry  de  Pourbon, 
king  of  Navarre,  and  Henry,  did\e 
of  Guise,  growing  out  of  a  project 
of  the  last  to  exclude  the  king  of 
Navarre  from  his  right  of  succession 
to  the  French  throne. 

Wars  of  the  Roses.  {Enff.  ffist.)  A 
name  given  to  the  intestine  wars 
which  raeed  in  FLngland  from  the 
reign  of  Henry  VI.  to  that  of  Henrv 
VII.  (1452-1486).  It  refers  to  the 
badges  or  emblems  of  the  parties  to 
the  strife,  —  that  of  the  house  of  York 
being  a  white  rose,  and  that  of  the 
house  of  Lancaster  a  red  rose. 

W'ashington  of  Colombia.  A  name 
given  to  Simon  Bolivar  (1785-1831), 


Avho  established  the  independence  of 
the  Spanish  provinces  of  A^cnezuela 
and  New  (iranada,  which  were  there- 
upon united  into  a  republic,  called 
Colombia,  of  which  he  was  chosen 
the  hrst  president. 

Was'tle,  Williani  (wos'l).  A  pseu- 
donym of  John  (iibson  Lockhart 
(17'J4-1854),  mider  which  he  contrib- 
uted to  "  Blackwood's  Magazine." 

Water -poet.  A  title  assumed  by 
John  Taylor,  an  F'nglish  jjoet  (1580- 
1654),  who  for  a  long  time  followed 
the  occupation  of  a  waterman  on  the 
Thames. 

Wat'ling  Street.  A  name  ver}-  gen- 
erally given  in  England,  during  the 
Middle  Ages,  to  the  Vi((  Lacita^  or 
"Milky  Way."  It  occurs  in  Chau- 
cer's "•  House  of  Fame,"  Book  II.:  — 

"  Se  yondir,  lo,  the  galaxie, 
The  wiche  men  clepe  the  milkv  way, 
For  it  i>i  wliite;  nnd  some,  parfoy, 
Y-eallin  it  han  WutUn(je-strete." 

In  "  The  Compleynt  of  Scotland," 
the  comet,  it  is  said,  "  aperis  otl  in 
the  quhyt  circle,  the  quhilk  the  mari- 
nalis  cailis  Vatlanstreit."''  The  name 
occurs  again,  in  the  translation  ot  the 
"^Eneid  "  by  GaAvain  Douglas:  — 

"  Of  ever}'  steme  the  twinkling  notis  he. 
That  in  the  stUl  hevin  move  couis  we  se, 
Arthuris    house,  and    Hyades,    betaikning 

rane, 
tVatlhigeKtrcte,  the  Ilorne,  and  the  Charle- 

wane. 
The  feirs  Orion  with  his  golden  glave." 

This,  however,  was  only  an  applica- 
tion f>f  the  word,  not  its  proper  and 
original  meaning.  The  real  Watling 
Street  was  a  road  extending  across 
South  Britain  in  a  general  direction 
from  east  to  west.  Beginning  at 
Richborough  or  Dover,  it  ran  through 
Canterbury  to  London,  and  thence 
across  the  island  to  Chester.  It  is 
yet,  in  some  parts,  an  important 
highway,  and  the  portion  which  ran 
through  London  still  preserves  the 
old  name.  Under  the  Britons,  Wat- 
ling  Street  existed  as  a  simple  forest- 
lane  or  track-way ;  the  Romans  made 
a  great  military  road  of  it;  and  the 
Anglo-Saxons  adopted  it,  as  they  did 
all  the  Rom.in  roads  and  bridges  in 
every  part  of  the  island. 

JSl^  The  orijiin  of  the  name  id  uncer- 
tain.    By  some  the  street  is  supposed  to 


4ud  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  uumbers  after  certain  words  refer,  s«e  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 

25 


WAY 


386 


WEL 


h^TC  been  called,  in  honor  of  Vitfllius,  the 
Via  (or  Strata)  Viiellina,  of  which  the 
modero  name  is  an  Anglo-Saxon  cor- 
ruption. Aiconiing  to  Camden,  it  was 
named  after  VitcUianus^  wlio  directed  the 
work,  and  whom  ttie  iJritous,  in  their 
laiij^uagi'.  called  Guetalin.  Florence  of 
Worcester  (Oliron.  sub.  an.  1013)  derives 
t  le  nam'!  from  the  Wep.tlings,  or  sous  of 
Kin;?  W'aetla.  who,  \Vri;?ht  says,  •'  w;is,  no 
doubt,  a  personage  of  the  Anglo-Saxon 
mythology.'-  Grimm  otTers  no  expla- 
nation, but  merely  remarks,  "  Who  the 
W«etlings  were,  and  liow  they  came  to  give 
their  name  both  to  an  earthly  and  a  heav- 
enly street,  we  do  not  kuow."  This  glit- 
tering pathway  in  the  sky  has,  in  otuer 
countries,  been  called  after  roids  on 
eart  1.  By  the  Italians,  it  was  deuomi- 
nated  the  '•  Santa  Stra'Ja  di  L'iretto."' 
Aventin.  a  German  writer  in  the  sixteenth 
centurv,  calls  it  "  Eirhigxtrassf,"'  and 
m  ikes  it  belong  to  a  mythical  King  Eu- 
riug  on  the  Danube. 

"Way'land  Smith,  or  "Wayiand  the 
Smith.  A  invthical  ami  invisible 
farrier  —  the  Vo'unl  or  Withnl  of 
Northern  fable  —  whose  name  has 
been  handed  down  to  tlie  present 
time  by  Eni^lish  traditions.  He 
hanntel  the  Vale  of  White-Horse,  in 
Berksliire,  where  three  squarish  Hat 
stones  supporting  a  fourth  ar3  still 
p  )inted  out  as  his  stithy.  His  fee 
was  sixpence,  and,  unlike  other  work- 
men, he  was  otfended  if  more  was 
otfer^id  him.  Sir  Walter  Scott,  by  a 
.'^tranije  anachronism,  introduces  him 
into  the  romajice  of  "•  Kenilworth  " 
as  a  living  person  of  the  reign  of 
Elizabeth.     See  Volund  and  WiE- 

LANI). 

"Weeping  Philosopher.  A  sobriquet 
given  to  Heraclitus,  a  native  of 
Ephesus,  who  flourished  about  500 
years  \\.  c.  He  Avas  of  a  gloomy  and 
melaimholy  disposition,  and  is  said 
to  ha\  •  been  perpetually  shedding 
tear-;  on  account  of  the  vices  of  man- 
kin  I. 

tj^^  The  name  of  Bemoc/ritus,  the 
laughing  philosopher,  being  often  coupled 
with  that  of  lleracli'tus,  the  weeping 
philosopher,  manv  speakers  are  apt  to 
accent  tie  latter,  incorrectly,  on  the  sec- 
ond syllable. 

Weird  Sisters.  Three  witches,  in 
Sliakospeare's  tragedv  of  "  Mac- 
beth." 


J8f3^  "  The  Weird  Sisters  are  an  true  • 
creation  of  .Shakespeare's  as  his  .^rieland 
Caliban,  —  tttes.  furies,  anil  materializing 
witches  being  the  elements.  Th»'y  are 
wholly  different  from  any  represeutiition 
of  witches  in  the  contemporary  writers, 
and  yet  pre.sent  a  sufficient  external  re- 
semblance to  the  creatures  of  vulgar  prej- 
udice to  act  iumiediatfly  ou  the  audience. 
Their  character  consists  in  the  imagina- 
tive, disconnected  from  the  good.  They 
are  the  shadowy  ub.scure  and  fearfully 
anomalous  of  physical  nature,  the  law- 
less of  human  nature,  —  elemental  aveng- 
ers without  .<ex  or  kin."'  ColeritJge. 

"Weissnichtwo  (vis'nikt-vo',  08,71). 
[Ger.,  I-know-not-where.  Compare 
Scot.  Ki'}mt(yuhi(ir.]  A  name  given, 
in  Carlyle's  "•  Sartor  Ke.^artus,"  to  a 
place  (probably  meant  for  l^ondon) 
spoken  of  as  containing  a  university 
in  which  Herr  Teutelsdri'ickh  is  pro- 
fe*:sor.  See  Teijfelsdkockh,  Hkhr. 

"Wel'ler,  Samuel.  i\Ir.  PickAvick's 
man,  in  Dickens's  celebrated  "  Pick- 
wick Papers  ;  "  designed  as  an  epit- 
ome of  London  low  life  in  its  most 
agreeable  and  entertaining  form.  He 
is  an  inimitable  compound  of  wit,  sim- 
plicity, quaint  immor,  and  tidelity. 

>e®="  "  The  far-famed  Sam  Weller  corre- 
sponds to  no  realitw  The  [jondoner  born 
and  bred  is  apt  to  be  the  driest  and  most 
uninteresting  of  beings.  All  things  lost 
for  him  the  gloss  of  novelty  when  he  was 
fifteen  years  old.  He  would  suit  the  mu- 
seum of  a  nil  a'tmirari  philosopher,  as  a 
specimen,  shriveled  and  adust,  of  the  ul- 
timate result  of  his  principle.  But  Dick- 
ens collected  more  jokes  than  all  the  cab- 
men in  London  would  utter  in  a  year, 
and  bestowed  the  whole  treasure  upon 
Sam."'  Batfiif. 

Weller,  Tony.  The  father  of  Sam 
Weller,  in  Dickens's  "•  Pickwick  Pa- 
pers;" a  representative  of  the  old 
broad-brimmed,  great-coated,  many- 
waistcoated,  red-faced  race  of  Eng- 
lish stage-coachmen. 

"Well-founded  Doctor.  [Lnt.  Doc- 
ior  Fumifttissimiis.l  An  honorary 
appellation  conferred,  on  accoimt  of 
his  profound  learning,  upon  ^gidius 
Pomanus  (d.  l-31f>).  of  the  family  of 
Colonna,  .Archbishop  of  Bourges,  and 
general  of  the  Augustinians. 

"Well-laneruaKed  Daniel.  See  Dan- 
iel, The  Wele-languageu. 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  ExplanatioDi^ 


WER 


387 


WHI 


Werther  (wer'ter,  4;  Ger.pron.  wl'v'- 
tef,  04,  68).  Tlie  hero  of  (ioethe's 
sentimeiitiil  romance,  ''  The  Sorrows 
of  Werther,"  in  wliich  he  portrays 
the  character  of  a  yomi^-  and  hi^lily 
endowed  .-pirit  who  lias  become  dis- 
gusted with  life. 

;8@=""  '  Werther,'  infusiiif?  itself  into  the 
core  and  wliole  spirit  of  literaturi",  j^ave 
birth  to  a  race  ofseiitiuicutalists  who  have 
raided  and  w.iiled  iu  every  part  of  the 
world  till  better  liglit  dawned  on  them,  or, 
at  least,  exhausted  nature  laid  itself  to 
sleep,  and  it  was  discovered  that  lament- 
ing was  an  unproductive  labor.''    CarLyLe. 

The  practical,  not  the  sfiitiinental,  is  Fried- 
rich's  interest,  not  to  say  that  Werther  and  the 
Bentiniental  were  not  yet  born  into  our  afflict- 
ed earth.  Carb/le. 

Western,  Miss  Sophia.  The  sweet- 
heart of  Tom  .lones,  in  Fielding's 
"History  of  Tom  Jones,  a  Found- 
ling." 

"Western,  Squire.  A  jolly  country 
gentleman  in  Fielding's  "  History  of 
Tom  Jones,  a  Foundling." 

je®=  "Amongst  these  [the  characters  of 
the  story],  Squire  Western  stands  alone  ; 
imitated  from  no  prototype,  and  in  him- 
self an  inimitable  picture  of  i.!rnorance, 
prejudice,  irascibility,  and  rusticity,  unit- 
ed with  natural  shrewdness,  constitution- 
al good-humor,  and  an  instinctive  aftcc- 
tion  for  his  daughter,  —  all  which  qual- 
ities, good  and  bad,  are  grounded  upon 
that  basis  of  thorough  selfishness  natural 
to  one  bred  up  from  infancy  wliere  no  one 
dared  to  contradict  his  arguments,  or  to 
control  his  conduct."  Sir  W.  Scott. 

There  now  are  no  Squire  Westerns,  as  of  old, 

And  our  Sophias  are  not  so  emphatic, 
But  fair  as  them  or  fairer  to  behold.  Ihiron. 
Rants  which  in  everj'  thing:  but  diction  re- 
sembled those  of  Squire  IVestern.  Macaulaij. 
Conceive  a  rugpred,  thick  -  sided  Squire 
Western,  of  supreme  dep:ree,  —  for  this  Squire 
Western  [Frederick  William  I.,  of  Prussia]  is 
a  hot  Ilohenzollern.  and  wears  a  crown  roy- 
al,—  conceive  such  a  bnr\y  tie  plus  ultra  of  a 
Squire,  with  his  broad-based  rectitudes  and 
surly  irrefragabilities.  Carhjle. 

Western  Reserve.  A  name  popu- 
larly given  to  a  tract  of  country 
reserved  by  the  State  of  Connecticut, 
at  the  time  of  the  cession  of  the 
North-west  Territory  to  the  United 
States.  Disputes  arose,  after  the  war 
of  the  Revolution,  between  several 
of  the  States,  respecting  the  right  of 
soil  in  this  territory,  which  were  onlv 
allayed  by  the  cession  of  the  whole 


to  the  United  States,  Connecticut 
reserving  a  tract  of  .'{.()0(),!»21  acres 
near  l^ake  Krie.  in  1800,  jurisdietion 
over  this  tract  was  relin(|uislied  to 
tlie  federal  govermnent,  the  State  re- 
serving the  right  to  the  soil,  and  dis- 
posing of  it  in  small  lots  to  settlers 
(from  which  sales  she  o!)tained  her 
magnilicent  school-fund),  wiiile  the 
Indian  titles  to  the  rest  of  the  soil 
v/ere  bought  up  b}'  the  general  gov- 
ernment. 

Westminster,  Long  Meg  of.  See 
Long  Mku  of  Westmixstek. 

Westminster's  Glory.  See  Eng- 
land's PkiDE  AND  WeSTMINSTEK'S 

Gloky. 

Wetlt'er-ell,  Elizabeth.  A  pseudo- 
nym adopted  by  Miss  Susan  War- 
ner, an  American  writer  of  the  pres- 
ent day,  author  of  "  The  Wide  Wide 
W^)rld  "  and  other  works. 

Whar'ton,  Eliza  (-tn).  The  heroine 
of  a  novel  of  the  same  name,  founded 
on  tact,  by  Mrs.  Hannah  Foster,  an 
American  authoress. 

Whar'ton,  Grace  (-tn).  A  pseudo- 
nym adopted  by  ^Irs.  Anthony  Todd 
Thomson  («re  Katharine  Byerky),  a 
popular  and  voluminous  author  of 
the  present  century  (d.  1862). 

Whar'ton,  Philip  (-tn).  A  pseu- 
donym adopted  by  John  Cooklinrn 
Thomson,  a  popular  English  author. 

Whirling    Rocks.     See    Svmpleg- 

ADES. 

Whis'ker-an'dos,  Don  Fe-r61o. 
The  lover  of  Tilburina,  in  Sheridan's 
farce  of  "  The  Critic." 

I  dare  say  I  blushed:  for  T  .  .  .  had  chris- 
tened him  Don  Ferolo  Wkiakerandos. 

TJtackeray, 

Whiskey  Insurrection.  {Anur. 
Hist.)  A  name  given  to  an  outbreak 
in  Western  Pennsylvania,  in  171)4, 
resulting  from  an  attempt  to  enforce 
an  excise  law  passed  in  1791,  which 
imposed  duties  on  domestic  distilled 
liquors.  The  insurrection  spread  into 
the  border  counties  of  Virginia,  and 
called  forth  two  proclamations  from 
President  Wiishington,  which  had  no 
effect.     It  was  finally  suppressed  hy 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  vhich  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


WHI 


388 


Win 


General  ITcnry  Lee,  governor  of  Vir- 
ginia, with  an  armed  force. 

Whistlecraft,  "William  and  Robert. 

A  iinia  (le  p/uint  of  Jolin  llookluun 
Frere  (i7G9-18-4U),  an  English  author 
and  statesman. 

White  Devil  of  "Wallachia.  A  so- 
bri(jut*t  given  by  the  Turks,  to  wliom 
he  was  a  great  terror,  to  (jeorge  Cas- 
triota  (1404-1407),  a  celebrated  Al- 
banian cliit'f,  comuKjnly  called  Scan- 
derbeg,  that  is,  liey,  or  Prince,  Alex- 
ander. 

"White  House.  In  the  United  States, 
a  name  popularly  given  to  the  ex- 
ecutive, or  presidential,  mansion,  at 
Washington,  which  is  a  large  build- 
ing of  freestone,  painted  white. 

Wkite  Lady  of  Av'e-nel.  A  kind 
of  tutelary  spirit  protecting  the  for- 
tunes of  a  noble  family  in  ^>ir  Walter 
Scott's  novel,  "  The  Monastery." 

Noon  gleams  on  the  lake, 

Noon  glows  on  the  fell; 
"Wake  thee,  oh,  wake, 

White  Maid  o{  Avenel. 

Sir  W.  Scott. 

"White  Rose.  A  common  designation 
of  the  house  of  York,  from  its  emblem, 
which  was  a  white  rose.  See  Waks 
OF  THE  Roses. 

"White  Rose  of  Ra'by.  Cecily,  wife 
of  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  and  mother 
of  Edward  IV.  and  Richard  III. ;  —  so 
called  in  allusion  to  her  private  char- 
acter, as  well  as  to  the  distinguishing 
color  of  the  Yorkists  in  the  Wars  of 
the  Roses.  She  was  the  youngest 
of  twenty-one  children.  A  novel  of 
some  popularity  entitled  "  The  White 
Rose  of  Rabv "  was  published  in 
17'J4. 

"Whit'ting-ton,  Dick.  The  hero  of 
a  famous  old  legend,  in  which  he  is 
represented  as  a  poor  orphan  boy 
from  the  country,  who  went  to  Lon- 
don, where,  after  luulergoing  many 
hardships,  he  attracted  the  notice  and 
comjiassion  of  a  rich  merchant,  who 
gave  him  a  situation  in  his  family  us 
an  assistant  to  the  cook.  Here  he  led 
a  miserable  life,  abused  by  the  cook, 
and  sleeping  in  the  garret,  which 
was  overrun  with  rats  and  mice.  At 
length,  having  obtained  a  penny,  he 


purchased  a  cat.  His  master,  shortly 
after,  being  aljout  to  send  a  ship  to 
sea,  gave  all  the  servaiUs  pennission 
to  send  a  venture  in  her.  Dick  had 
notiiing  to  risk  but  his  cat.  and  sent 
her.  The  ship  was  driven  to  the 
coast  of  IJarliarv,  where  the  master 
and  chief  mate  were  invited  to  court. 
At  an  entertainment  given  to  them 
by  the  king,  rats  and  mice  swarmed 
over  the  taljles,  and  disputed  with 
the  guests  possession  of  the  banquet. 
The  captain  thereupon  sent  for  Dick's 
cat,  which,  being  produced,  made  a 
terrible  havoc  among  the  vermin, 
and  was  gladly  purchased  by  the 
king  at  a  very  high  price.  With  the 
money  thus  ac(inired,  Dick  com- 
menced business,  and  succeeded  so 
well  that  he  linally  married  his  former 
master's  daughter,  was  knighted,  and 
became  lord  mayor  of  London.  This 
tradition  has  jjrobably  no  foundation 
in  fact,  though  there  was  a  real  Sir 
Richard  Whittington,  who  was  thrice 
mayor  of  London  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  V. 

J^^  According  to  Mr.  H.  T.  Riley  ("  Re- 
rum  Britanuicaruni  Medii  .Evi  Scrip- 
tores,  Munimenta  Gildhalloe  Londinen- 
sis,"'  vol.  i..  '■  Liber  Albiis,"  Preface,  p. 
xviii.),  in  the  fourteenth  centur}-  and 
the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth,  trading, 
or  buying  and  selling  at  a  profit,  was 
known  to  the  more  educated  classes  in 
England  under  the  French  name  achat, 
which  they  wrote,  and  probably  pro- 
nounced, neat.  To  acat  of  this  nature, 
Whittington  was  indebted  for  his  wealth  ; 
and  as,  iu  time,  the  French  became  dis- 
placed by  the  modern  English,  the  mean- 
ing of  the  word  probably  was  lost,  and 
thereby  opportunity  was  given  to  some 
inventive  genius,  at  a  much  later  period, 
of  building  a  new  story  upon  the  double 
meaning  of  an  obsolete  word.  By  Sir 
AVilliam  Ouseley,  the  story  is  said  to  be 
founded  on  an  Oriental  narrative  ;  and  it 
is  related  in  a  Persian  MS.,  according  to 
Ilalliwell,  that,  in  the  t«nth  century,  one 
Keis,  the  son  of  a  poor  widow  of  Siraf, 
embarked  for  India  with  his  sole  property, 
a  cat ;  there  lie  fortunately  arrived  at  a 
time  when  the  palace  was  so  infested  by 
mice  or  rats  that  they  invaded  the  king  s 
food,  and  persons  were  employed  to  drive 
them  from  tlie  royal  banquet.  This  cat 
was  useful  in  the  same  mann -r  as  Whit- 
tington's,  and  its  owner  was  similarly  re- 
warded.    In  a  •'  Description  of  Guinea," 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


WIC 


389 


WIL 


1665.  it  is  recorded  "  how  Alphonso,  a 
Portii;jcnese.  being  wrecked  on  tlie  coast 
of  Guiiiuey,  ami  beirij;  presented  by  the 
king  rliereof  with  his  weiglit  in  gold  for 
a  cat  to  kill  their  mice  and  an  o.vntnicnt 
to  kill  their  Hies,  which  he  improved, 
witliin  fivt;  >(!ars,  to  .£tj()00  on  the  place, 
and  returning  to  Portugal,  iifter  fifteen 
years  traffick,  became  tiie  third  man  in 
the  kingdom."'  See  further  in  Keight- 
lev's  '•  Tales  and  Popular  Fictions,'  pp. 
241-2(56. 

"Wicked  Bible.  A  name  j^iven  to  an 
edition  of  tiie  Bible  published  in  1032 
by  Barker  and  Lucas,  because  the 
word  not  was  omitted  in  the  seventh 
coniinandnient.  The  printers  were 
called  before  the  Hi<;h  Commission, 
fined  heavily,  and  the  whole  impres- 
sion destroyed. 

■Wick'field,  Agnes.  The  heroine  of 
Dickens's  "  David  Coppertield,"  one 
of  the  most  charming  female  charac- 
ters in  the  whole  range  of  tiction. 

Wieland  (vee^lant,  56,  68).  A  famous 
Northern  smith ;  the  same  as  Volund. 
See  VuLUND  and  Waylaxu  Smith. 
fl6g==  In  a  contest  with  a  smitli  named 
Amilias,  as  to  who  would  manufacture 
the  be.st  sword,  he  clove  Amilias  down  to 
the  waist  with  a  blade  of  such  sharpness 
that  it  cut  through  steel  helmet  and  ar- 
mor and  body,  and  vet  .\milias  did  not 
feel  it ;  but.  on  attempting  to  rise  from 
his  seat,  he  discovei'ed  its  effects  by  fall- 
ing asunder.  This  sword  was  called  Bai- 
rn ung. 

Wife  of  Bath  (2).  Oneof  the  pilgrims 
who  are  represented  by  Chaucer  in 
his  ''  Canterbury  Tales  "  as  travehng 
from  Southwark  to  Canterbury,  and 
each  relating  a  story  on  the  road  for 
the  common  amusement.  The  "  Wife 
of  Batli's  Tale"  seems  to  have  been 
taken  from  that  of  Florent,  or  Floren- 
tius  {(/.v.),  in  Gower's  "  Confe.'isio 
Amantis;"  or  perhaps  from  an  older 
narrative  in  the  "  Gesta  Homanorum," 
or  some  such  collection,  from  which 
the  story  of  Klorent  was  borrowed. 

Oh,  she  is  well  attended,  madam,  replied  the 
dame,  who,  from  her  jolly  and  laughter-loving 
demeanor,  mi<>ht  have  been  the  verv  emblem 
of  the   Wire  ot' Bath.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

"Wife  of  Keith,  Wise.  See  Wise 
WiFK  OF  Keith. 

Wild,  Jonathan.  A  notorious  Eng- 
lish  robber,   who  was    executed   in 


1725.  He  is  chiefly  known  to  readers 
of  the  present  day  as  the  hero  of 
Fielding's  novel,  "The  History  of 
Jonathan  Wild." 

i&M"  "  111  that  strange  apologue,  the 
autlior  takes  for  a  hero  the  greatest  ras- 
cal, coward,  traitor,  tyrant,  hypocrite, 
that  his  wit  and  experience,  both  large  in 
this  matter,  could  enable  him  to  devise 
or  depict ;  he  accompanies  this  villain 
through  all  the  actions  of  his  life,  with  a 
grinning  deference  and  a  wonderful  mock 
respect,  and  does  not  leave  him  till  he  is 
dangling  at  the  gallows,  when  the  satirist 
makes  him  a  low  bow,  and  wishes  the 
scoundrel  good-day."  Thnrki-ray.  '"  It 
is  not  easy  to  see  what  Fielding  proposed 
to  himself  by  a  picture  of  complete  vice, 
unreheved  by  any  thing  of  human  feel- 
ing, and  never,  by  any  accident  even,  de- 
viating into  virtue;  and  the  ascribing  a 
train  of  fietitious  adventures  to  a  real 
character  has  in  it  something  clumsy  and 
inartificial  on  the  one  hand,  and.  on  the 
other,  subjects  the  author  to  a  suspicion 
that  he  only  used  the  title  of  '  Jonathan 
Wild  '  in  order  to  connect  his  book  with 
the  popular  renown  of  that  infamous 
depredator."  Sir  W.  Scott.  "  It  has 
been  justly  remarked  by  Mr.  Murphy, 
that  Fielding  wrote  '  The  History  of  Jon- 
athan Wild '  for  a  noble  purpose,  and 
one  of  the  highest  importance  to  society. 
A  satire  like  this  strips  off  the  spurious 
ornaments  of  hypocrisy ,  shows  the  beau- 
ty of  the  moral  character,  and  will  always 
be  worthy  the  attention  of  the  reader  who 
desires  to  rise  wiser  or  better  from  the 
book  he  peruses."  Roscoe. 

Wildair,  Sir  Harry.  The  hero  of 
Farquhar's  comedy  of  the  same  name, 
and  also  of  his  "  Constant  Couple." 
He  is  represented  as  an  airy  gentle- 
man, affecting  humorous  gayety  and 
great  freedom  in  his  behavior,  but 
not  altogether  profligate  or  unfeeling. 

Wild  Boar  of  Ardennes  (at-'den', 
or  ar^den).  \Yr.  Le  Sfiw/lier  des  Ar^ 
ffennes.]  A  sobriquet  given  to  Wil- 
liain,  Count  of  La  Marck  (d  1485),  on 
account  of  his  ferocity  and  the  de- 
liglit  he  took  in  haimting  the  forest 
of  Ardennes.  According  to  Sir  Wal' 
ter  Scott,  who  introduces  him  into 
"  Quentin  Durward,"  he  was  remark- 
able for  an  unusual  thickness  and 
projection  of  the  mouth  and  upper 
jaw,  and  for  huge  protruding  side- 
teeth,  which  gave  him  a  hideous  and 
brutal  expression  of  countenance. 


■nd  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  sec  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


WIL 


390 


WIL 


Wild  Boy,  The.  A  savage  creature 
fouiul,  ill  Novcinhcr,  17i25,  in  the 
foivst  of  Ilcrtswold,  Hanover,  and 
sii])pose(l  to  be  at  that  time  about 
tiiirteeii  years  ohl.  He  was  aceiis- 
tonied  to  walk  on  all  fours,  and  would 
climb  trees  like  a  s(|uirrel.  His  food 
consisted  of  wild  plants,  leaves,  f^rass, 
moss,  and  the  bark  of  trees.  Many 
ettbrts  wt're  made  to  reform  his  sav- 
aiie  haliits,  but  with  little  success,  nor 
could  he  be  taught  to  utter  one  dis- 
tinct syllable.  He  commonly  went 
by  the  name  of  Peter.  His  death 
took  place  in  February,  1785. 

Wildfire,  Madge.  The  sobriquet  of 
a  prominent  character  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel,  "  The  Heart  of  Mid- 
Lothian,"  whose  real  name  is  given 
as  Margaret  Murdockson.  She  is 
described  as  having  been  a  beautiful, 
but  verv  vain  and  giddy  girl,  crazed 
by  seduction  and  the  murder  of  her 
infant,  and  exhibiting  in  an  exag- 
gerated degree  those  weaknesses  of 
character  to  which  she  owed  her 
misery. 

Wild  Huntsman.  [Fr.  Le  Grand 
Venett)-,  Ger.  De/-  Wilde  Jd(/er.]  The 
subject  of  a  popular  and  widely  dif- 
fused tradition  concerning  a  strange 
and  spectral  hunter  who  appears  by 
night,  surrounded  by  dogs,  and  some- 
times with  a  train  of  attendants,  driv- 
ing on  the  chase.  The  well-known 
cheer  of  the  hunter,  the  cry  of  his 
hounds,  and  the  tramp  of  his  horse's 
feet,  are  distinctly  audible.  The  su- 
perstition probably  has  its  origin  in 
the  many  and  various  strange  sounds 
which  are  heard  in  the  depths  of  a 
forest  during  the  silence  of  the  night. 
In  Gemiany,  this  tradition  has  been 
made  the  subject  of  a  ballad  by 
Biirger,  entitled  "  Der  AVilde  .liiger," 
which  has  been  translated  into  Eng- 
lish by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  under  the 
name  of"  The  Wild  Huntsman."  In 
this  poem,  the  hunter  is  represented 
not  as  driving,  but  as  himself  driven 
by  the  Devil,  from  whom  he  seeks  to 
escape.  The  French  have  a  similar 
tradition  concerning  an  aerial  hunter 
who  infests  the  forest  of  Fontaine- 
bleau.  Some  account  of  him  may  be 
found  in  Sullv's  "  Memoirs,"  in  which 


he  is  styled  Le  drand  Vene^ir.  Father 
Mattliieu  relates,  that  the  shepherds 
of  the  neighborhood  hold  it  to  be  the 
hunt  of  St.  Huliert,  wliich  is  also 
heard  in  other  ])laces.  '{"he  super- 
stition woidd  seem  to  l)e  (piite  general. 
In  a  Scottish  poem  entitled  "  Alba- 
nia," there  is  a  poetical  description 
of  this  phantom  chase.  In  Kngland, 
the  tradition  seems  to  have  estab- 
lished itself  under  the  tigure  of //e/ne 
tilt  Hunter^  as  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor." 

Wil'kins,  Peter.  The  hero  of  a 
work  entitled  "  The  Voyage  of  Peter 
Wilkins,"  written  by  iJobert  Pul- 
tock,  about  the  year  i75(J.  He  is  a 
mariner,  who,  like  Kobinson  Crusoe, 
is  thrown  on  a  distant  uninhabited 
shore,  after  undergoing  various  ca- 
lamities at  sea,  and  who  is  furnished 
with  stores,  utensils,  and  provisions, 
from  the  wreck  of  tlie  ship  in  which 
he  sailed.  His  solitary  abode  is  in  a 
beautiful  twilight  country  frequented 
by  a  race  of  Hying  people,  or  beings 
provided  with  a  sort  of  elastic  natural 
investment  which  will  open  and  shut 
at  pleasure,  thus  furnishing  the  pos- 
sessor with  wings  or  a  dress,  accord- 
ing to  the  requirement  of  the  moment. 

j8®="  "  The  hero's  name  was  most  likely- 
suggested  by  that  of  a  celebrated  advo- 
cate of  the  possibility  of  tiying,  —  Wil- 
kins, Bishop  of  Chester."       Le/ff/i  Hunt. 

I  cannfit  imaije  to  myself  whereabout  you 
are.  When  I  try  to  fix  it,  Peter  IVilkin.^'s  isl- 
and conies  across  me.  Charles  Laiiib. 

Wil'let,  John.  A  burly  and  obstinate 
English  country'  innkeeper  of  the  last 
century,  who  figures  in  Dickens's 
novel  of  "  Barnaby  Rudge." 

William  of  CloudesTie.  A  famous 
North-country  archer  celebrated  in  an 
old  '"  popular  history,"  and  in  a  poem 
which  has  been  reprinted  by  Ritson 
and  by  Percy. 

Williams,  Caleb.   The  title  of  a  novel 

by  William  (iodwin  (1756-1836),  and 

the  name  of  its  hero. 
Will-with-the-Wisp.  Another  name 

for  Jnck-tcitli-thc-Lnntern,  q.  v. 
Wil'mot,     1.    A  character  in  Lillo's 

"  Fatal  Curiosity." 

2.    (.^-rabella.)     A  lady   beloved 


n^  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


WIL 


391 


WIN 


by  George  Primrose,  in  Goldsmith's 
"  Vicar  of  Wakelieid." 

Wil'mot  Proviso.  {  Amer.  ffist.) 
A  name  poiuilarly  given  in  America 
to  an  anuMidincnt  to  a  bill  placing 
$2,0()(),()00  at  the  disposition  of  Pres- 
ident Polk  to  negotiate  a  peace  with 
Mexico.  It  was  introduced  in  the 
national  house  of  rejiresentatives,  on 
the  8th  of  August,  1846,  by  the  Hon. 
David  Wilmot,  a  Democratic  repre- 
sentative from  Pennsylvania,  and 
■was  in  these  words:  "Provided, 
that,  as  an  express  and  fundamen- 
tal condition  to  the  accpiisition  of 
any  territory  from  the  republic  of 
JMexico  by  the  United  States,  by 
virtue  of  any  treaty  which  may  be 
negotiated  between  them,  and  to  the 
use  by  the  executive  of  the  moneys 
herein  appropriated,  neither  slavery 
nor  involuntary  servitude  shall  ever 
exist  in  any  part  of  said  territory, 
except  for  crime,  Avhereof  the  party 
shall  tirst  be  duly  convicted."  The 
bill  with  this  amendment  attached 
was  passed  in  the  house  by  a  vote  of 
87  yeas  to  G-t  nays,  but  failed  in  the 
senate  in  consequence  of  the  arrival 
of  the  hour  for  the  tinal  adjournment 
of  the  session  before  a  vote  could  be 
reached.  At  the  next  session  of  con- 
gress (1840-47),  a  bill  appropriating 
$•3,000,000  for  tlie  same  purpose  as  be- 
fore had  a  similar  provision  athxedto 
it  by  the  senate,  but  was  rejected  in 
the  house  by  a  vote  of  1U2  to  97. 
On  the  tennination  of  the  war,  the 
practical  question  involved  in  the 
Wilmot  Proviso,  whether  the  intro- 
duction of  slaver\'  should  be  allowed 
or  prohibited  in  the  territories  newly 
acquired  from  Mexico,  became  the 
source  of  great  agitation  throughout 
the  country. 

Wimble,  Will,  The  name  of  a  cel- 
ebrated character  in  the  "  Spectator," 
distinguished  for  his  delightful  sim- 
plicity and  good-humored  officious- 
ness.  He  is  said  to  have  been  in- 
tended for  a  Mr.  Thomas  Morecroft, 
Avho  died  at  Dublin,  July  2,  1741. 

Wimbledon,  Philosopher  of.  See 
PiTiLosopiiEn  OF  Wimbledon. 

Win'kle,  Mr.  Nathaniel  (wingkd). 
One  of  the  cKd),  in  Dickens's  "Pick- 


Avick  Papers;  "  lepresented  as  a  cock- 
ney pretender  to  sporting  skill. 

Win'kle,  Kip  Van  (wingk'l).  The 
name  of  one  of  the  Dutch  colonists 
of  New  York,  whose  adventures 
are  related  in  Washington  Irving's 
"Sketch-book."  He  is  represented 
as  having  met  a  strange  man  with 
a^  keg  of  liquor  in  a  ravine  of  the 
Kaatskill  Mountains,  aiul  as  having 
obligingly  assisted  him  to  carry  the 
load  to  a  wild  retreat  among  the 
rocks,  where  he  found  a  company  of 
odd-looking  personages  playing  at 
ninepins,  with  the  gravest  of  faces 
and  in  the  most  mysterious  silence. 
His  awe  and  apprehension  having  by 
degrees  subsided,  he  ventured,  when 
no  eye  Avas  tixed  on  him,  to  steal  a 
taste  of  the  beverage  Avhich  he  had 
helped  the  strange  man  bring  along. 
He  repeated  the  draught  so  otten  that 
at  length  his  senses  Avere  overpow- 
ered, and  he  fell  into  a  deep  sleep, 
Avhich,  strange  to  say,  lasted  for 
tAventy  years,  though  they  seemed  to 
him  but  as  one  night.  Meanwhile, 
remarkable  events  had  taken  place: 
his  Avit'e  had  died,  his  daughter  Avas 
mari-ied,  his  former  cronies  were  dead, 
or  scattered,  or  much  the  Avorse  for 
the  Avear  and  tear  of  time ;  and,  more 
than  all,  there  had  been  a  Avar  of 
revolution,  the  colonies  had  thrown 
otf  the  yoke  of  the  mother  country, 
and  Avere  now  knoAvn  as  the  United 
States  of  America.  See  Epimeni- 
])Es;  Klaus,  Peter;  and  Sleep- 
ing Beauty  in  the  Wood. 

Winter  King.  A  title  derisively 
given  to  Frederick  V.,  elector  palatine 
0596-1632),  Avho  Avas  elected  king 
of  Bohemia  by  the  Protestants,  in 
1619,  and  was  defeated,  and  his  reign 
brought  to  an  end,  in  1620. 

>e@=  "  What  kind  of  a  '  King  of  Bohe- 
mia'  this  Friedrich  made,  .  .  .  and  what 
sea  of  troubles  he  and  his  entered  into, 
we  know:  the  '  Winter  Konig^^  {Wintev- 
Kin;;,  fallen  in  times  of  frosi,  or  built  of 
mere  frost,  a  S7iniv-k\ng  altogether  soluble 
again)  is  the  name  he  gets  in  German 
Histories."  Carlyle. 

Winter  Queen.  A  mocking  af)pel- 
lation  given  to  Elizabeth,  daughter 
of  James  I.  of  England,  and  wife  of 


end  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xzxiL 


WIS 


392 


WIZ 


Frederick,  elector  palatine.  See  su- 
pra. 

"Wise  Men  of  Gotham.  See  Go- 
tham. 

Wise  Men  of  Greece,  The  Seven. 
See  Seven  Wise  .Men  oe  Gkeece. 

Wise  Men  of  the  East.  See  Magi, 
The  Tiikee;  also,  Cologne,  The 
Three  Kings  of. 

Wise  Wife  of  Keith,  A  popular 
di'sij,niati()ii  j^^ivoii  to  one  Agnes  Simp- 
son, or  Sampson,  a  Scottish  woman 
executed  abinit  tlio  latter  part  of  the 
sixteentli  century  for  witchcraft,  and 
especially  for  taking  part  in  an  al- 
leged conspiracy  against  the  life  of 
the  king,  James  \T.  See  Scott's 
"  Letters  on  Demonology  and  Witch- 
craft," Letter  IX. 

Wishfort,  Lady.  A  character  in  Con- 
grove's  comedy,  "  The  Way  of  the 
World;"  distinguished  for  her  mix- 
ture of  Avit  and  ridiculous  vanity. 

Witchfinder  General.  A  title  as- 
sumed l)y  one  Matthew  Hopkins,  an 
im])udent  and  cruel  wretch,  who,  for 
three  or  four  years  previous  to  1(5-47, 
traveled  through  the  counties  of 
Essex,  Sussex,  Norfolk,  and  Hunting- 
don (in  England),  pretending  to  dis- 
cover witches,  superintending  their 
examination  by  the  most  imheard- 
of  tortures,  and  compelling  them  to 
admit  and  confess  matters  equally 
absurd  and  inipossil)le,  the  issue  of 
which  was  the  forfeiture  of  their  lives. 

JSfS"  At  first  the  current  of  popular 
feeli  ig  was  strongly  with  Hopkins  ;  but  at 
lengtli  it  set  agiinst.  him  with  such  vio- 
lence. tli;it  he  was  seized  antl  subjected  fo 
his  own  favorite  test  of  swimming,  and. 
happening  to  tloat,  was  convicted  of 
witchcraft,  and  put  to  death.  He  has 
been  pilloried  bv  Butler  in  '-Hudibras" 
(Part  II.,  canto  3). 

Witch  of  Atlas.  The  heroine  of 
Shelley's  poem  of  the  same  title. 

Witch  of  Balwery,  The  Great. 
See  GitEAT  Witch  ok  Balwehv. 

Witch  of  Ed'm6n-t6n.  The  heroine 
of  a  trau'i-comcdv  of  the  .came  name 
by  William  Ikowley,  assisted  by  Ford 
and  Dekker.  It  was  published  in 
l:).-)S. 


Witch  of  Endor.  A  divining  woman 
consulted  by  King  Saul,  when,  hav- 
ing become  disheartened  and  dis- 
couraged by  the  general  defection  of 
his  sui)jects,  and  being  conscious  of 
his  own  unworthy  and  ungrateful  dis- 
obedience, he  desjKiired  of  obtain- 
ing counsel  and  assistance  from  the 
offended  Deity,  who  had  previously 
comminiicated  with  him  through  hi-s 
prophets.  At  the  direction  of  Saul, 
she  called  up  the  spirit  of  Samuel, 
who  foretold  the  defeat  and  death  of 
the  king. 

Wi£h'ring-t6n,  Roger.  A  gallant 
S(|uire  celebrated  in  the  ballad  of 
"Chevy  Chase."  His  legs  having 
been  smitten  off,  he  continued  to  fight 
"  upon  his  stumps."  [Written  also 
W  i  d  d  r  i  n  g  t  0  n.] 

Some  stone  saints  were  brought  on  their 
marrow-bones,  like  old  Widdringion  nt  Chevv 
Cha.se.  Sir  W.  Scott. 

Witling  of  Terror.  A  nickname 
given  to  Bertrand  Barere  (or  Bar- 
rere),  in  the  time  of  the  first  Irencli 
Kevolution.  See  Anackeon  of  thk 
Guillotine. 

But  thougli  Barere  succeeded  in  earning 
the  honorable  nicknames  of  the  H'it/ini/  u/ 
Terror  and  the  Anacreon  of  the  Guillotine, 
there  was  one  place  where  it  was  long  re- 
membered to  his  disadvantage  that  he  had, 
for  11  time,  talked  the  language  of  humanity 
and  moderation.  Macduhi!/. 

Wit'would,  Sir  Willful  (wit'wcrod). 
A  character  in  Congreve's  comedy, 
"  The  Way  of  the  World." 

Parson  Barnabas,  Parson  Tnilliber,  Sir 
WiVfiil  Witwoidil,  Sir  Fmicis  \Vn)nghead, 
Squire  Western,  Squire  Sullen. —  such  were 
tlio  people  who  composed  the  main  stiength 
of  the  Tory  party  for  sixty  years  after  the 
Revolution.  Macnulay. 

Wizard  of  the  North.  A  name  oft- 
en given  to  Sir  Walter  Scott  (1771- 
1832),  in  allusion  to  the  extraordinary 
charm  and  descriptive  power  of  his 
writings,  which  excited  imbounded 
enthusiasm  on  their  tirst  appearance, 
and  which  still  retain  a  large  meas- 
ure of  their  original  popularity. 

eCS'  "  Sir  ^V;llter  Scott  earned  the  title 
of  '  Wizanl  of  the  North  '  bv  the  magic 
power  which  reproduced  o'd  Scotland, 
refonght  its  battles,  remonnted  its  steel- 
harnessed  w  irrinrs.  re-enact<vl  it<  Border 
fend-:,  rcpeopled  its  Highlands,  restored 
the  dark  days  of  its  Covenanters,  revived 


as-  ior  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the   accompanying  Explanations, 


WOD 


393 


wuo 


it«  by  -  gone  superstitions,  raised  Claver- 
house  and  his  troopers  from  the  dead." 
Christ.  Examiner. 

"Wo'den.  {Myth.)  The  German  and 
Anji;lo  -  Saxou  form  of  Odin.  See 
OoiN. 

"Woliland.  A  nickname  sometimes 
given  to  Ire  hind,  in  the  time  of  Wil- 
liam III.,  in  eonse(inence  of  a  preva- 
lent belief  that  wolves  abounded  there 
to  an  extraordinary  extent. 

"Wolverine  State.  The  State  of 
IMichiican  ;  —  popularly  so  called  from 
its  al)oun(ling  Avith  woh'erines. 

"Wonderful  Doctor.  [Lat.  Doctor 
Mirabilis.]  Koger  Bacon,  a  cele- 
brated philosopher  and  mathemati- 
cian of  the  thirteenth  century ;  —  so 
named  on  account  of  his  extensive 
knowledge.  [Called  also  Admirable 
Bocioi'.]     See  Admirable  Doctor. 

Wonderful  Parliament.  ( fJnr/. 
Hist.)  The  name  given  to  a  parlia- 
ment which  met  on  the  3d  of  Febru- 
ary, 1388,  and  which,  by  playing  into 
the  hands  of  the  Duke  of  Gloucester, 
thwarted  an  attempt  made  by  the 
king  (Richard  II.)  to  assume  the 
reins  of  government  in  fact  as  well  as 
in  seeming. 

Wood,  Babes,  or  Children,  in  the. 
See  Children  in  the  Wood. 

Wood,  Babes  of  the.  See  Babes 
OF  THE  Wood. 

Wooden  Horse.  (Gr.  cf  Rom.  ^fyth.) 
A  monstrous  image  of  a  horse,  made 
of  wood  and  tilled  with  Greeks, 
which  the  Trojans  were  induced  to 
take  into  their  city  by  the  artful  rep- 
resentations of  Sinon,  a  pretended 
deserter  from  the  Grecian  army,  who 
asserted  that  it  had  l)een  constructed 
as  an  atonement  for  tiie  stealing  of 
the  Palladium  by  Ulysses  and  Dio- 
nied,  and  that, if  the  Trojans  should 
venture  to  destroy  it,  Troy  would  tall, 
but  if.  on  the  contrary,  they  were  to 
draw  it  with  their  own  hands  into  the 
city,  they  would  gain  the  supremacy 
over  the  Greeks.  Though  wamed, 
by  Laocoon,  Calchas.  and  Cassandra, 
that  he  was  an  impostor,  the  Trojans 
took  the  advice  of  Sinon.  and  drew 
the  horse  within  the  walls.     In  the 


Three  Gentiles. 


Three  Jews. 


Three  Christians. 


night,  Sinon  stole  forth  and  unlocked 
a  concealed  door  in  the  horse,  and  the 
Greeks,  rushing  out,  opened  the  city- 
gates  to  their  friends  waiting  without, 
who  poured  in,  and  thus  gained  pos- 
session of  Troy. 

Worldly- Wiseman,  Mr.  One  of 
the  cliaracters  in  Bunyan's  "  Pil- 
grim's Progress, "  who  converses 
with  Christian  by  the  w-ay,  and  en- 
deavors to  deter  him  from  proceed- 
ing on  his  journey.     See  Christian. 

Worthies,  The  Nine.  Famous  per- 
sonages often  alluded  to,  and  classed 
together,  rather  in  an  arbitrarv  man- 
ner, like  the  Seven  Wonders  of  the 
World,  the  Seven  Wise  Men  of 
Greece,  &c.  They  have  been  counted 
up  in  the  following  manner:  — 

1.  Hector,  son  of 
Priam. 

2.  Alexander  the 
Great. 

3.  Julius  Caesar. 

4.  Joshua,  con- 
queror of  Ca- 
naan. 

-  5-  David,    king   of 
Israel. 

6.  Judas  Macca- 
bfeus. 

7.  Arthur,  king  of 
Britain. 

8.  Charlemagne. 

9.  Godfrey         of 
Bouillon. 

In  Shakespeare's  ''  Love's  Labor  's 
Lost,"  a.  v.,  sc.  2,  Hercules  and  Pom- 
pev  appear  as  two  of  the  Nine  Wor- 
thies. 

Ay,  there  were  some  present  that  •vrere  the 
Nine  Worthies  to  him,  i'  faith.        lien  Jonson. 

Wray,  Enoch  (ra).  The  "Village 
Patriarch,"  in  Crabbe's  poem  of  that 
name.  He  is  represented  as  having 
numbered  a  hundred  years,  and  as 
being  poor  and  blind  ;  but  he  has  be- 
come the  chronicle  of  his  neighbor- 
hood, and  is  reverenced  by  all  for  his 
meek  resignation,  his  Avisdom,  and  his 
elevated  piety. 

Wronghead,  Sir  Francis.  A  char- 
acter in  Colley  Gibber's  comedy  of 
"  The  Provoked  Husband." 

Wu-o'ta,n.  (Afi/tli.)  The  same  as 
0./i»,  or  Woden.     See  Odin. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  whicu  tke  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


XAN 


394 


YGG 


X. 


Xan'S-du  (zun'Jl-doo).  The  name  of 
a  city  inentioiietl  in  Coleridge's  poem 
of"  ■'  Kubla  Khan."  It  is  an  ahered 
form  of  Xdindu,  the  residence  of  the 
Khan  Kublai,  as  given  in  Piirchas's 
''  Pilgrimage,"  from  which  book  the 
idea  of  tiie  poem  was  derived. 

Xan-tip'pe.  [Gr.  Eai-fltTTTrT).]  The 
Avife  of  Socrates,  the  famous  Grecian 
philosopher;  so  notorious  a  termagant 
that  her  name  has  passed  into  a  prov- 


erb.   [Written  also,  leps  tisually,  but 
more  correctly,   X  a  n  t  h  i  p  p'e.] 

Xavier  (zav'i-er;  Fr.  pron.  zi've^'). 
A  nom  de  plume  of  Joseph  Xavier 
Boniface  (b.  1797),  a  popular  French 
writer.     See  Saintijse. 

Xu'ry  (zu'ry,  9).  A  Moresco  boy,  in 
De  Foe's  romance  of"  Kobinson  Cru- 
soe ;  "  servant  to  Crusoe. 

Xtiry  and  Friday  .  .  .  can  never  be  to  him 
the  realities  they  once  were.  ilacaulay 


Y. 


Yi'hoo.  A  name  given  by  Swift,  in 
his  satirical  romance  entitled  "  Trav- 
els into  several  Remote  Nations  of 
the  World,  by  Lemuel  Gulliver,"  to 
one  of  a  race  of  brutes  having  the 
form  arid  all  the  vices  of  man.  The 
Yahoos  are  represented  as  being  sub- 
ject to  the  Houyhnhnms,  or  horses 
endowed  with  reason.  See  Hou- 
yhnhnms. 

Art  thou  the  first  who  did  the  coast  explore? 
Did  never  Yahoo  tread  that  ground  before  ? 

Pope. 

The  filthiest  and  most  spiteful  Yahoo  of  the 

fiction  was  a  noble  creature  when  compared 

with  the  Barrere  of  history.  Macaulay. 

Yama  (ya'mS).  [Sansk.,  a  twin.] 
(Ifindu  .\fyf/i.)  A  fierce  and  terrible 
deity,  the  lord  of  hell  and  the  tor- 
mentor of  the  wicked  ;  originally 
conceived  of  as  one  of  the  first  pair 
from  whom  the  human  race  is  de- 
scended, and  the  beneficent  sovereign 
of  his  descendants  in  the  abodes  of 
the  blest.  He  is  represented  as  of  a 
green  color,  with  inflamed  eyes,  sit- 
ting on  a  buffalo,  clothed  in  red  gar- 
ments, a  crown  on  his  head,  and  a 
club  in  his  hand. 

Tar'i-co.    See  Inkle,  1\Ir.  Thomas. 

Yellow  Dwarf.  [Fr.  Le  Nnin  Jnune.l 
A  hideous  py^'inv  who  figures  in  a 
fairy  tale  originally  written  in  French 


by  the  Countess  d'Aunoy  (1650- 
1705).  He  was  so  called  on  account 
of  his  complexion,  and  his  living  in 
an  orange-tree.  He  abducts  a  beau- 
tiful princess,  and  stabs  her  lover, 
whom  chance  has  thrown  into  his 
power,  before  her  eyes,  Avhereupon 
she  expires  from  excess  of  grief. 

Yellow  Jack.  Among  sailors,  a  com- 
mon personification  of  the  yellow  fe- 
ver. Although  used  as  a  proper  name, 
it  is  probable  that  the  original  mean- 
ing of  the  appellation  was  nothing 
more  than  yellnio  flag,  a  flag  being 
termed  ajnck  by  seamen,  and  ye/lmo 
being  the  color  of  that  customarily 
displayed  from  lazarettos,  or  naval 
hospitals,  and  from  vessels  in  quaran- 
tine. 

Yellow-ley,  Trip-tore-mus.  An 
agricultural  enthusiast,  of  mixed 
Scottish  and  Yorkshire  blood,  who 
figures  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  novel, 
"The  Pirate." 

Yellow  "Water.     See  Parizade. 

Yen'dys,  Syd'ney.  A  literary  name 
adopted  by  Sydney  Dobell  (b.  1824), 
an  English  poet  of  the  present  day. 
Yendys  is  merely  Sydney  reversed. 

Ygg'dra-sil.  (Scand.  Mylh.)  An  a.sh- 
tree,  called  "  the  tree  of  the  uni- 
verse," under  which  the  gods  assem- 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


YGU 


395 


YOU 


ble  eren^  day  in  council.  Its  branches 
spread  over  the  whole  world,  and 
tower  up  above  the  heavens,  it  has 
three  roots,  one  of  which  reaches  to 
the  Asir,  another  to  the  tVost-j^iants 
where  was  formerly  (iinnunga-gap, 
and  the  third  stands  over  Nitiheim. 
See  NiDHiioG  and  Nokns. 

"S'-guerne'  (4).  Another  spelling  of 
Jyenia.     See  Igerna. 

Ymir  (ee'nief).  (Scnml.  Mylh.)  The 
iirst  of  all  being's,  a  giant  and  the 
progenitor  of  the  giant  race.  He  Avas 
slain  by  Odin,ViIi,  and  Ve,  and  from 
his  body  the  world  was  constructed. 
He  is  a  type  of  chaos.  [Written  also 
Y  mer.] 

S'or'ick.  1.  The  king  of  Denmark's 
jester,  mentioned  in  Shakespeare's 
"  Hamlet,"  a.  v.,  sc.  1.  Hamlet,  pick- 
ing up  his  skull  in  a  cliurch-yard, 
apostrophizes  it,  moralizing  upon 
death  and  the  base  uses  to  which  we 
may  return. 

2.  A  humorous  and  careless  par- 
son, in  Sterne's  famous  novel  of 
"Tristram  Shandy;"  represented  as 
of  Danish  origin,  and  a  descendant 
of  the  Yorick  celebrated  by  Shake- 
speare. 

4E;g=  "  Yorick,  the  lively,  witty,  sensi- 
tive, and  heedless  parson,  is  the  well- 
known  personificatiou  of  Sterne  himself, 
and,  undoubtedly,  —  like  every  portrait 
of  himself  drawn  by  a  master  of  the  art,  — 
bore  a  strons  resemblance  to  the  orisjinal. 
Still,  however,  there  are  shades  of  sim- 
plicity thrown  into  the  character  of  Yor- 
ick which  did  not  exist  in  that  of  Sterne. 
We  cannot  believe  that  the  jests  of  the 
latter  were  so  void  of  malice  prepense,  or 
that  his  satire  Howed  entirely  out  of  hon- 
esty of  mind  and  mere  jocundity  of  hu- 
mor." Sir  W.  Scott. 

yorke,  Oliver.  The  name  assumed 
by  the  editor  of  "■  Fraser's  Maga- 
zine," when  it  w'as  first  started. 

Thou  too,  miraculous  Entity,  that  namest 
thyself  Vorke  and  Olirf,  and,  with  thy  vi- 
vacities and  genialities,  with  thy  ail-too  Irish 
mirth  and  madness,  and  odor  of  palled  punch, 
makest  such  strange  work,  farewell;  lonsrns 
thou  canst,  fare- weZL'  Carlyle. 

IToung  America.  A  popular  collec- 
tive name  for  American  youth,  or  a 
personification  of  their  supposed  char- 
acteristics. 


eSS"  "  What  we  call '  Young  America* 
is  nuide  up  of  about  equal  parts  of  irrev- 
erence, conceit,  and  that  popular  moral 
quality  familiarly  kuowuas  •  brass.'  '' 

J.  G.  Holland, 

Young  Chevalier.  A  title  popidar- 
ly  given  to  Charles  Edward  Stuart, 
grandson  of  James  II.,  and  a  claim- 
ant for  the  crown  of  England.  He 
is  otherwise  known  as  the  Younger 
Pretender.     See  Pketknders,  The. 

Young  England.  A  collective  des- 
ignation given  some  thirty  years  ago 
to  a  number  of  persons  of  rank  and 
character  in  England,  who  attempted 
to  give  a  new  form  and  application 
to  Tory  principles.  One  of  their 
chief  aims  was  the  revival  of  the  man- 
ners of  mediteval  times,  which  they 
held  to  have  been  destroyed  or  great- 
ly changed  and  injured  by  the  growth 
of  a  commercial  si)irit  among  the 
higher  classes.     Their  cry  was, — 

•'Let  wealth  and  commerce,  laws  and  learn- 
ing;, die. 
But  give  us  back  our  old  nobilitv." 

Ld.  John  Manners. 

JSfS^  "  Young  England  was  gentlemanly 
and  cleanly,  its  leaders  being  of  the  patri- 
cian order;  and  it  looked  to  the  Jliddle 
Ages  for  patterns  of  conduct.  Its  chiefs 
wore  white  waistcoats,  gave  red  cloaks  and 
broken  meat  to  old  women,  and  would 
have  lopped  off  three  hundred  years 
from  Old  England's  life,  by  pushing  her 
back  to  the  early  days  of  Henry  VIII. 
.  .  .  Someof  the  cleverest  of  the  younger 
memliers  of  the  aristocracy  belonged  to 
the  new  organization,  and  a  great  genius 
[B.  Disraeli]  wrote  some  delightful  novels 
to  show  their  purpose,  and  to  illustrate 
their  manner  of  how-not-to-do-it  in  grap- 
pling with  the  grand  social  questions  of 
the  age.  .  .  .  Young  England  went  out 
as  soberly  and  steadily  as  it  had  lived. 
The  select  few  who  had  composed  it  died 
like  gentlemen,  and  were  as  polite  as 
Lord  Chesterfield  in  the  act  of  death. 
Some  of  them  turued  \Vhigs,  and  have 
held  office  under  Ijord  Palmerston  ;  and 
others  are  Tories,  and  expect  to  hold  office 
under  Lord  Derby,  when  he  shall  form 
his  third  ministry."  C.  C.  Hazewell. 

Young  Europe.  An  association  or- 
ganized April  15,  1834,  by  delegates 
from  the  various  national  leagues, 
"  Young  Italy,"  "  Young  Switzer- 
land," tS:c.,  on  the  basis  of  the  polit- 
ical, social,  and  religious  vicAvs  ad- 
vanced  by   Mazzini,   and   with   the 


and  for  the  Bemarke  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-zxxiL 


YOU 


396 


YVE 


avowed  desifcn  of  exciting  (he  na- 
tions of  Europe  to  rise  against  their 
despotic  rulers. 

Young  France,  Spain,  Switzer- 
land, Poland,  &c.  Social  ami  lit- 
erary i)arties  which  sprang  into  In-ing, 
in  nearly  all  the  countries  of  conti- 
nental Europe,  in  consecjuence  of  the 
political  agitations  resulting  from 
the  French  Revolution  of  18;J0,  and 
whose  aim  was  to  reconstitute  socie- 
ty, literature,  the  arts,  in  short,  every 
tiling,  upon  a  ncAv  basis.  See  Young 
Italv,  also.  Young  Eunoi'i:. 

Voung  Germany.  A  name  assumed 
by  a  revolutionary  and  literary 
school  in  Germany  which  claimed  to 
represent  the  tendencies  of  modern 
thought,  and  to  embody  the  political 
sympathies  and  aspirations  conse- 
quent upon  the  late  revolutionary 
struggles  in  Europe.  Heinrich  Heine 
(1800-1856)  may  be  regarded  as  the 
best  exponent  of  this  school.  The 
other  principal  representatives  of 
Young  Germany  were  Karl  Gutz- 
kow,  Heinrich  Laube,  Gustav  Ki'ihne, 
and  Theodor  ]Mundt.  The  organiza- 
tion was  broken  up  after  the  failure  I 
of  the  revolutionists  of  1848-40. 

Young  Ireland.  A  name  adopted  by 
a  party  of  Irish  malcontents,  about 
the  year  1840,  who  were  in  sj'mpathy 
■with  the  progressive  movements  in- 
stigated by  O'Connell, —  himself  a 
member  of  the  organization,  —  but 
who  ridiculed  his  renunciation  of 
physical  force  in  seeking  political  re- 
forms, and  who  were  impatient  to  in- 
itiate insurrection  and  war. 

Young  Italy.  [It.  Ln  (Juwine  Itnlin.'] 
The  nauK'.  assumed  by  an  association 
of  Italian  refugees  in  France,  who 
seceded  from  the  "Charbonnerie  Y)6- 


mocratiqne,"  — a  secret  political  un- 
ion founded  shortly  after  the  Revolu- 
tion of  July,  and  which  endeavored 
to  make  Paris  the  center  of  all  jjoliti- 
cal  movements.  The  league  was  or- 
ganized mainly  at  the  instigation  of 
iMazzini,  who  was  dissatisfied  with 
the  centralizing  tendency  of  the 
Charbonnerie.  It  was  instituted  at- 
Marseilles,  —  at  that  time  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Italian  refugees,  — 
in  1830,  and  its  main  object  was  to 
republicanize  the  Italian  peninsula. 
The  motto  of  Young  Italy  was  "  Xow 
and  Ever,"  and  its  emblem  a  branch 
of  cypress. 

Young  Roscius,  The  (rosh'i-us).  An 
appellation  contierredon  William  Hen- 
ry West  Bettv,  an  English  actor,  who 
made  his  debut  at  the  Belfast  Thea- 
ter, August  1,  1803,  when  not  twelve 
years  old.  In  fifty -six  nights  he 
drew  .£34,000.  After  winning  im> 
mense  popularity,  and  accumulating 
an  ample  fortune,  he  retired  from  the 
stage  in  1824. 

Ysaie  le  Triste  (e'zu'  lu  trest).  A 
valiant  knight  of  the  Round  Table, 
son  of  Tristan,  or  Tristram,  of  Lcon- 
noys,  and  Yseult,  or  Isolde,  the  wife 
of  King  Mark  of  Cornwall.  His  ad- 
ventures are  the  subject  of  an  old 
French  romance  published  at  I'aris 
in  1522. 

I  difl  not  think  it  necessary  to  contemplate 
the  exploits  of  chivalry  with  the  gravity  of 
y^aie  le  TriMe,  or  the  iiroduetions  in  winch 
tliey  are  detailed  witli  the  sad  and  sorr  )wfiil 
Rolemnity  of  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  I'onn- 
tenance.  D'ndnp. 

Yseult  (iz'oolt),  Ysolt  (iz'olt),  Ysolde 
(iz'old),  or  Ysoude  (iz'ood).  See 
Isolde. 


Yvetot,  King  of. 

YVETOT. 


See    King    of 


For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


2AD 


397 


zoi 


z. 


Zadig  (za'deff').  The  title  of  a  fa- 
mous novel  of  Voltaire,  and  the 
name  of  its  hero,  a  wealthy  yomif; 
Babylonian.  The  work  is  intended 
to  i<ho\v  that  the  events  of  life  are 
placed  beyond  our  control. 

Zad'ki-el.  1.  According  to  the  Jew- 
ish Kal)l)ins,  the  name  of  one  of  the 
angels  ot'  the  seven  planets;  the  an- 
gel of  the  planet  Jnpiter. 

2.  A  pseudonym  of  Lieutenant 
Morrison,  of  the  British  navy,  a 
writer  of  the  present  day. 

Zang'bar.  The  name  of  a  fabled  isl- 
and in  India.  The  Persian  zurKjl  sig- 
nifies an  Egyptian,  Ethiopian,  or  sav- 
age. The  root  is  probably  the  same 
as  that  of  the  country  Zanguebar,  on 
the  east  coast  of  Africa. 

Z5-no'ni.  The  hero  of  Sir  EdAvard 
Bulwer  Lytton's  novel  of  the  same 
name;  one  of  a  secret  brotherhood 
who  possess  a  knowledge  of  the 
means  of  communicating  with  spirit- 
ual beings,  of  prolonging  life  to  an 
indetinite  term,  and  of  copying  many 
of  the  processes  of  nature,  such  as 
the  production  of  gold  and  precious 
stones. 

Ze-lu'co.  The  hero  of  a  novel  of  the 
same  name  by  Dr.  John  Moore  ( 1730- 
1802),  the  object  of  which  is  to  prove, 
that,  in  spite  of  the  gayest  and  most 
prosperous  appearances,  inward  mis- 
ery always  accompanies  vice.  Ze- 
luco  is  the  only  son  of  a  noble  family 
in  Sicily,  accomplished  and  fascinat- 
ing, but  spoiled  by  maternal  indul- 
gence, and  at  length  rioting  in  every 
prodigality  and  vice. 

Ze'phSn.  [Heb.,  the  searcher  of  se- 
crets.] The  name  of  a  cherub  in 
Milton's  "Paradise  Lost,"  a  "  strong 
and  subtle  spirit,"  "  severe  in  youth- 
ful beauty,"  whom  Gabriel  dis- 
patched, together  with  Ithuriel,  to  hnd 
Satan,  after  his  escape  from  "  the  bars 
of  hell."     See  Ithukiel. 

Zeph'y-rus.     [Gr.  Ze'^vpo?.]     ( Gr.  4" 


Rom.  Myth.)  A  personification  of 
the  west  wind,  described  as  a  son  of 
^olus  and  Aurora,  and  the  lover  of 
tlora;  the  same  as  Fnvonius.  See 
Fa  voNius.  [  U  ritlen  also,  in  an  An- 
glicized lorm,  Z  e  p  h  y  r.  j 

Zerbino  (dzef-be'no,  64,  70).  A  fa- 
mous warrior  in  Ariosto's  poem  of 
''Orlando  Eurioso."  He  is  repre- 
sented as  the  son  of  a  king  of  Scot- 
land, and  as  the  last  fiiend  of  Or- 
lando. 

Ze'tes.  [Gr.  Ztjti,?.]  {Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Mijth.)  A  son  of  Boreas  and  Orithy- 
ia;  generally  described  as  a  winged 
being,  \s\lh.  his  brother  Calais,  he 
acc(mipanied  the  Argonautic  expe- 
dition, and  drove  the  Harpies  trom 
Thrace.  Hercules  is  said  to  have 
killed  them  with  his  arrows  near  the 
island  of  "Tenos. 

Ze'thus,  [Gr.  Zf,9o?.]  {Gr.  (f  Rom. 
Myth.)  A  son  of  Jupiter  and  Anti- 
ope,  and  twin  brother  of  Amphion. 

Zeus  (6).  [Gr.  Zei9.]  {Gr.  Jfyfh.)  The 
Greek  name  of  Jvpiter,  the  king  of 
gods  and  men.     See  Jupitek. 

Zeyn  Alasnam,  Prince.  See  Alas- 
ka m. 

Zira'ri.  A  nickname  under  which 
Dryden  satirized  the  Duke  of  Buck- 
ingham, in  his  "Absalom  and  Achit- 
ophel,"  in  return  lor  Buckingham's 
attack  on  him  in  "  The  Kehearsal." 
See  Bates. 

Zi-pan'gi,  or  Zi-pan'gri.      See    Ci- 

TANGO. 

Zobeide  (zo-badO-  A  lady  of  Bag- 
dad whose  history  is  related  in  the 
story  of  the  "Three  Calendars"  in 
the  "Arabian  Nights'  Entertain- 
ments." The  caliph  Haroun-Al- 
Raschid  became  enamored  of  her, 
and  married  her. 

Zo'i-lus.  \Cir.  ZoiiAo?.]  A  gramma- 
rian of  antiquity  whose  place  of 
birth  and  the  age  in  which  he  lived 
are  not  known  with  any  degree  of 


and  foi  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ZOP 


398 


ZUL 


certainty.  Tie  is  celebrated  for  the 
extraonliiiary  asperity  with  which  he 
coiuineiited  on  the  poems  ol'  II<jnier. 
He  appears  also  to  have  assailed  Pla- 
to and  Isocrates.  His  name  has  be- 
come proverbial  for  a  cajjtious  and 
malignant  critic,  and  has  given  rise 
to  the  words  Zoilean  and  Zuilism. 

Zo'phi-el.  [Heb.,  spy  of  God.]  In 
Milton's  "Paradise  Lost,"  an  angelic 
scout,  "of  cherubim  the  swiftest 
win;:." 


Zorph^e  (zor-fA')-  A  fairy,  in  the  ro» 
mance  of  "  Amadis  de  (jaul." 

Zu-lei'ka.  1.  A  pattern  lover  whose 
courtship  and  fortunes  are  a  staple 
sutjject  of  description  or  allusion 
with  the  Persian  bards. 

2.  The  name  of  the  heroine  of  By- 
ron's poem,  "  The  Bride  of  Abydos." 
See  Selim. 

j8®=  "  Never  was  a  faultless  character 
more  delicately  or  justly  delineated." 

Geo.  Ellis. 


For  the  •'  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


APPENDIX. 


A. 


A'bou-ben-Ad'hem.  The  subject  of 
a  well-known  sliurt  poem  bv  James 
Henry  Leigh  Hunt  (1784-1859). 

A-ghil'les  of  Eagland.  This  title 
has  been  given  to  Arthur  Welieslev, 
the  first  Uuke  of  Wellington  (1709- 
3852),  and  also  to  John  Talbot  (1373- 
1453). 

Adeler,  Max.  The  pseudonym  of 
Charles  H.  Clark. 

^'s6p  of  Arabia.  A  title  sometimes 
applied  to  Lokman,  the  Eastern 
fabulist  and  ])liilosopher.  The  iden- 
tity of  L<)kman  and  .(Esop  is  sug- 
gested by  coincident  traditions,  and 
the  similarity  between  the  fables 
attributed  to  each  induces  the  belief 
that  tliey  had  a  similar  Indo-Persian 
or  Chinese  origin. 

.^'sop  of  England.  .\  name  given 
to  John  Gay  (1G88-1732),  the  Eng- 
lish poet,  in  allusion  to  his  well- 
known  "  Fables.'' 

.<E's6p  of  France.  A  title  applied  to 
.lean  de  La  Fontaine,  the  famous 
French  fabulist  (1G21-1695). 

-ffi'sop  of  Germany.  A  name  given 
to  Lessing  (1729-1781)  whose  "  Fa- 
bles "  are  rich  in  wit  and  original 
thought. 

.^'tiSn.  The  name  of  one  of  the 
characters  in  Edmund  Spenser's 
(1.553  '{'-1599 )  pastoral  enfitlpd  "  Colin 
Clouts  come  home  againe,"  thought 
by  many  to  be  a  poetical  name  for 
Shakespeare.  According  to  Todd, 
yEtion  is  Michael  I  Jrayton,  the  author 
of  the  "  Polvolbion." 


And    there,  though    last    not    least,  is 

yEtion  ; 
A  gentler  shepheard  may  no  where  be 

louiid  : 
Whobe  Muse,  full  of  high  thoughts  in- 

veiition. 
Doth  like  hiruselfe  heroically  sound. 

t:ipenser. 

Agath'ocles's  Pot.  Agathocles 
learned  in  early  life  tlie  trade  of  a 
potter,  becoming  afterwards  the  cele- 
brated  tyrant  of  Syracuse.  "He 
affected  much  humility  in  his  great- 
ness, always  having  an  earthen  ves- 
sel at  his  table  to  remind  him  of  his 
origin." 

A  poor  relation  is  the  most  irrelevant 
thing  in  nature,  a  piece  of  impertinent 
correspondency,  ...  a  death's  head  at 
your  banquet,  Agathocles'' s  pot,  a  Mor- 
decai  in  your  gate,  a  Lazarus  at  your 
door,  a  lion  in  your  path,  .  .  .  the  ounce 
of  sour  in  a  pound  of  sweet.  C.  Lamb. 

Al  Araf  (al  ar'af).  The  boundary 
place  between  heaven  and  hell  in 
]Mohammedar>  theology,  somewhat 
similar  to  the  purgatory  of  the  Ro- 
man Catholic  Church.  "Sitting 
astride  of  this  wall  are  those  whose 
good  and  evil  deeds  so  exactly  bal- 
ance each  other  that  they  deserve 
neither  heaven  nor  hell." 

Al-cae'us.  An  appellation  given  to 
James  Montgomery  (1771-1854),  the 
Scottish  poet. 

With  broken  lyre  and   cheek   serenely 

pale, 
Lo  !  sad  Alcceus  wanders  down  the  vale. 

Byron. 

Alexander,  Mrs.  The  pseudonym 
of  Mrs.  Annie  F".  Hector,  the  popu- 
lar Irish  novelist  (h.  1825). 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  aertain  words  refer,  sse  pp.  ziv-xxxii. 


ALE 


400 


APO 


Alexander's  Rinf?.  Alexander  dy- 
iiijf  It'tt  liis  riiij4"  to  Perdiccus,  one  of 
Ills  •4eiit'i-als.  On  the  strength  of  this 
becjuesi,  I'erdiccas  claimed  to  be  liis 
successor. 

Allen,  Barbara.  The  subject  of  an 
old  l)allad  of  unku<nvn  authorship. 
It  can  be  found  in  Percy's  "  Kel- 
iques  of  Ancient  Enj^li^h  Poetry." 

These  harmless  people  had  several  ways 
of  being  good  conipauy  ;  while  one  played 
tlie  other  would  sing  some  soothing  bal- 
lad, Joimny  Armstrong's  last  good  night, 
or  tiie  cruelty  of  Barbara  Allen. 

Goldsmith. 

Allen's  "Wife,  Josiah.  The  num  de 
plaint  of  Marietta  HoUey,  a  writer  of 
the  jiresenl  day. 

Al'ma.  A  character  in  Spenser's 
(155-{V-15'jy)  "  Faerie  Queene,"  typi- 
fying the  mind  of  man  and  inhab- 
iting a  castle  emblematic  of  the  hu- 
man body. 

But  thousand  enemies  about  us  rave. 
And  with  long  siege  us  in    this  Castle 

hould : 
Seven  yeares  this  wize  they  us  besieged 

have. 
And  many  good  Knights  slaine  that  have 

us  sought  to  save. 

Spenser, 

The  House  of  Temperaunce,  in  which 

Doth  sober  Alrnn  dwell, 
Besif»gftd  of  many  foes,   whom   straunger 
Knights  to  fliglit  compell.       Spenser. 

Alma  is  also  the  subject  of  a  poem  of 
the  same  name  bv  Matthew  Prior 
(1664-1721)  said  by  Pope  to  he  the 
only  one  of  Prior's  works  of  which 
he  (Pope)  should  wish  to  be  the  au- 
thor. 
A.  Ii.  O.  E.  ("A  Lady  of  Enec- 
land.")  A  pseudonvm  of  Miss  Char- 
lotte Tucker  (b.  1830),  author  of  fic- 
tion for  the  young. 

Alonzo  the  Brave.  The  subject  of  a 
ballad  entitled  "Alonzo  the  Brave 
and  the  Fair  Imo£rine  "  bv  Matthew 
Cy.  Lewis  {Monk  Leivis)  (1773-1818). 

Alth'ea.  The  subject  of  the  familiar 
lines  by  Richard  Lovelace  (1618- 
16.58)  beginiiinir, 

"Wlien  love  with  unconfin^d  wings," 
«nd  supposed  to  be  the  same  Lucy 
Sacheverell  whom  he  is  considered 
bv  manv  to    have  celebrated  under 


the  name  of  Lucasta.     See  Lucasta, 
in  l)ody  of  book. 
Amasis's  or  Polycrates's  ring.    See 

POLYCKATIOS'S  KrNG. 

Ami   du  Peuple.     See   Fkiend   of 

TIIK  PeoI-I-K. 

Andy,  Handy.     See  Handy  Andy. 

Angoisse,  Lac   de  1'.     See  Lake  of 

Pain. 
Antisthenes,  Mantle  of.     See  Man- 

TLK  *)l'  AnTISTIIENES. 

Apollo'n;us  of  Tyre.  The  hero  of 
the  romance  ("  ApoUonius  Tyrius") 
of  remote  antiquity,  and  unknown 
origin,  verv  popular  in  the  middle 
ages,  and  tfie  foundation  of  tlie  play 
of  "  Pericles,"  attributed  to  Shake- 
speare. 

Apostle  of  Andalusia.  A  title  given 
to  Juan  de  Avila  (1500-1569),  from 
his  success  as  a  home-missionary  in 
the  province  of  that  name. 

Apostle  of  Ethiopia.  A  name  com- 
monly given  to  St.  Frumentius  ( 

-360  Vj. 

Apostle  of  Free  Trade.  A  title 
often  bestoAved  upon  Richard  Cobden 
(1804-1865),  the  prominent  cham- 
pion of  Free  Trade  and  of  the  ''  Anti- 
Corn-Law  League  "  in  England. 

(I^^  "  The  name  which  ought  to  be, 
and  which  will  be,  associated  with  the 
puccess  of  these  mea.eures  [in  favor  of 
Free  Trade]  is  the  name  of  the  man 
who,  acting,  I  believe,  from  pure  and 
disinterested  motives,  has  advocated 
their  cause  with  untiring  energy,  and  by 
appeals  to  reason  enforced  by  an  elo- 
quence the  more  to  be  desired  because  it 
is  unaffected  and  unadorned  —  the  name, 
I  say,  which  ought  to  be,  and  will  be, 
associated  with  the  success  of  these 
measures,  is  that  of  Richard  Cobden." 

<Si>  Robert  Peel. 

Apostle  of  Hunerary.  A  name  ap- 
plied to  St.  Anastasius  (954-1044). 

Apostle  of  New  Zealand.  A  name 
somotinips  given  to  Samuel  Marsden 
(1764-1838). 

Apostle  of  the  Alps.  A  name  ap- 
plied to  Felix  Xeff,  the  Swiss  mis- 
sionary (1798-1829). 

Apostle  of  the  Indians.  A  title 
conferred    upon    Las    Casas,   the   be- 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  aocompanying  Explanations, 


APO 


401 


ATK 


nevolont  Spanish  missionary  (1474- 
15()()),  on  account  of  his  zeal  in  he- 
half  of  the   oppressed    Indians.     See 

also    Al'USTLK   OF    THE     IjNUlAJiS     ill 

hody  of  book. 

Apostle  of  the  Netherjands.  An 
appelhition  j;iven  to  St.  Auiand,  Bp. 
of  Alaestncht  (58y-G7yj. 

A-postle  of  the  Sword.  This  title  is 
sometimes  applied  to  Mahomet  be- 
cause of  his  practical  application  of 
the  doctrine  that  "tlie  sword  is  the 
kev  of  heaven  and  of  hell:  a  drop  of 
blood  shed  in  the  cause  of  God,  or  a 
ni<^hl  spent  in  arms,  is  of  more  avail 
than  two  months  of  fasting  and 
prayer;  whoever  falls  in  battle,  his 
sins  are  forgiven  him." 

Apostle  of  Virginia.  A  name  given 
to  Samuel  Harris,  Baptist  minister 
(b.  1724)  of  that  state. 

Aqua  Tofifania.  A  celebrated  poison, 
supposed  to  have  been  some  prepara- 
tion of  arsenic,  prepared  by  an  Ital- 
ian woman  named  Tophana,  who  at 
her  execution  confessed  that  she  had 
murdered  over  six  hundred  persons 
with  it. 

Araf,  Al.     See  Al  Araf. 

Archimedes,  Lever  of.  See  Lever 
OF  Archimedes. 

Arg'us.  The  name  of  Ulysses's  dog. 
See  also  Ahgus  in  body  of  book. 

Arios'to  of  the  North.  An  appella- 
tion ir'wen  to  Sir  Walter  Scott  (1771- 
1832). 

—  the  minstrel  who  call'd  forth 
A  new  creation  with  his  magrin  line, 
And,  like  the  Ariosfn  of'  (he  North, 
Sang  1-1  dye-love  and  war,  romance  and 

knig'htly  worth.  Byron. 

Arm  of  St.  Oswald.  Oswald  was 
kinir  of  Northumberland,  and  ex- 
ceedingly beneficent.  One  day  as 
he  was  dining  a  large  number  of 
beagars  assembled  at  his  gate;  he 
gave  them  all  the  meat  upon  his 
table,  and  this  not  being  sufficient 
for  all,  he  ordered  one  of  his  silver 
dishes  to  be  cut  in  pieces  and  dis- 
tributed. Aidanu«;,  a  bishop,  be- 
holding this,  took  hold  of  the  king's 
rii^ht  hand,  sayinc,  "Nunqnam  in- 
veterascat  haec  nianus."     This  hand 


shall  never  grow  old.     Oswald  being 

slain  by  a  nelghlM»ring  king,  and 
the  Bishop's  blessing  remembered, 
his  arm  was  carefully  preserved,  and 
treasured  at  l^eierborough,  where  it 
was  much  visited  and  held  in  great 
esteem  as  a  sacred  relic. 

Ar'nold.  The  hero  of  Byron's  drama 
"The  Deformed  Transformed." 
Stung  by  the  cruel  reproaches  of  liis 
mother,  who  upbraids  him  with  being 
hunchbacked,  and  "weary  of  his 
being's  heavy  load,"  he  is  about  to 
lay  it  down,  when  an  evil  spirit 
stops  his  hand,  and  promises  a  re- 
mission of  his  present  sufterings,  on 
condition  of  some  future  service  to 
be  performed.  The  noblest  forms  of 
the  heroes  of  antiquity  rise  in  suc- 
cession, and  he  is  permitted  by  the 
demon  to  lay  down  his  misshapen 
body,  and  to  possess  the  strength 
and  beauty  of  Achilles. 
Ash'burton,  Mary.  The  heroine  of 
Longfellow's  romance  of  "Hype- 
rion." 
As-pa'si-a  (as-pa'zhi-a).  The  hero- 
ine of  a'novel  of  the  same  name  bv 
Eev.  Charles  Kingsley  (1819-1875). 
See  also  Aspasia  in  body  of  book. 
Astaroth.     See  Ashtakoth  in  body 

of  book. 
Astronomer-Poet.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Omar  Khayyam  of 
Persia,  who  lived  in  the  eleventh 
and  twelfth  centuries  and  was  the 
author  of  the  singular  poem  en- 
titled "Rubaiyat." 
Atala  {t'ik'lk').  The  hero  of  Cha- 
teaubriand's novel  of  the  same  name; 
an  affecting  example  of  fanaticism 
amidst  the  deserts  of  the  New 
World. 
Athenian  Stuart.  A  name  com- 
monly given  to  .Tames  Stuart  (1713- 
1788)  the  English  antiquary  and 
architect,  and  author  of  "Antiquities 
of  Athens." 
Atkins,  Tommy  (or  the  British 
Soldier).  The  term  aro.se  from  a 
little  pocket-bnok,  or  ledger,  at  one 
time  served  out  to  B'itish  soldiers,  in 
which  were  to  he  entered   the  name, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


AUT 


402 


BAT 


*ffe,  date  of  etilistment,  length  of 
service,  wouixis,  medals,  etc.,  of 
each  individual.  The  war  ofiiie  sent 
with  eacli  little  ledji:er  a  form  for 
fillint;  it  in,  and  the  "M  or  N  "  se- 
lected, instead  of  the  lej^al  "John 
Doe  "  and  "  Kicliard  lioe,"  was 
"Tommy  .-Vtkins  "  The  books  were 
instantly  so  called,  and  it  did  not 
take  many  days  to  transfer  the  psen- 
donynt  from  the  i)ook  to  the  soldier 
himself.  Notes  and  (iueries. 
Autocrat,  The  (of  the  Breakfast 
Table).  A  name  sometimes  ap- 
plied  to    Oliver     VVeudell    Holmes 


(b.  1809),  who  in  1857-8  contribii- 
ted  lo  the  "Atlantic;  Monthly"  a 
series  of  |)apers  entitled  "  The  Anto- 
crat  of  the  Breakfast  Table,"  show- 
in<r  a  shrewd  insii^ht  into  human 
character  and  aboundin;^  in  wit  aud 
humor. 

The  Autocrat  is  as  genial  and  gentle, 
and,  withal,  as  philosopliical,  an  essayist 
as  any  of  modern  times.  R.  -b'.  Mackenzie. 

Ayrsiire  Bard,  or  Ploughman. 
This  name  was  given  to  Burns,  from 
the  place  and  the  occupation  in  which 
he  gave  indicatious  of  his  remark- 
able genius. 


B. 


Balaam's  Aas  (ha-lam,  or  ba'la-am). 
Balaam,  a  soothsayer  or  propiiet,  is 
said  in  the  Hebrew  Scriptures  to 
have  been  sent  by  Balak,  king  of 
Moah,  to  warn  the  Israelites  against 
entering  his  territories,  as  they  were 
approaching  the  banks  of  the  .Jordan. 
The  prophet  mounted  upon  his  ass, 
and  set  forth  upon  his  j<jurney-  As 
he  entered  a  narrow  gorge,  an  an-^el 
holding  in  his  hand  a  drawn  sword 
stood  before  the  beast,  who  recoiled 
in  fright.  Balaam,  to  whom  the 
angel  was  invisible,  in  vain  at- 
tempted to  urire  the  animal  forward. 
At  the  same  instant  the  ass  opened 
his  mouth  and  said,  '•  What  have  I 
done  unto  thee  that  thou  hast  thus 
smitten  me  V  "  The  allusions  to  Ba- 
laam's ass  are  almost  always  pleas- 
antries. 

The  clown  who  mounts'!  the  hoTse  beat 
him  with  a  whip  saymg,  "  Here  is  another 
of  your  antics.  This  confounded  animnl 
must  needs  see  everything.  One  woulil 
Bay  he  is  taking  l-^ssons,  A  little  more 
and  he  will,  like  Balaam^  as.i,  be  spf^ak- 
ing  German."  Alphonse  Esqniros. 

Baldassare.      See   Calvo,    Baldas- 

SAKE. 

Banker  Poet.  .\  title  sometimes 
given  to  Samuel  Rogers  (1763- 
185.^^  the  English  poet,  ni  allusion  to 
the  business  to  which  he  was  bred. 

Bardo   di   Bardi.      A    character    in 


George  Eliot's  (1820?-1880)  novel 
of  "  Romola." 
Bard  of  the  Im.agination.  A  name 
sometimes  applied  to  Mark  Akenside 
(1721-1770),  author  of  a  poem  in 
blank  verse,  entitled  "  The  Pleas- 
ures of  the  Imagination." 

Barnacles,  The.  Several  characters 
in  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  of 
''  Little  Dorrit,"  connected  with  the 
famous  Circumlocution  Office. 

Barrier  Act.  A  name  given  to  an 
important  act  of  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land made  by  its  General  Assembly 
in  1697,  and  designed  as  a  hindrance 
to  hasty  changes  in  the  laws  of  the 
Church. 

Barton,  Rev.  Amos.  The  subject 
of  "The  Sad  Fortunes  of  the  Rev. 
Amos  Barton,"  included  in  George 
Eliot's  (1820?-1880j  "Scenes  of 
Clerical  Life." 

Bat  Parliament.  The  parliament  of 
1426  gained  this  title  from  the  blud- 
geons or  "bats"  which  were  carried 
by  the  opposing  partisans  of  the 
Duke  of  Gloucester  and  Cardinal 
Beaufort. 

Jig^^  '  Either  in  affection  or  derision, 
the  English  have  been  fond  of  conferring 
significant  names  on  men,  things,  and  in- 
ptirutions.  We  have  had  a  dozen  names 
for  our  Parliaments,   including   the    Bat 


ts^  For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explaaations, 


BAT 


403 


BLO 


Parliament,  the  Dunc&s,  the  Addled,  the 
Barebones,  and  the  Kump."' 

London  Athenteurn. 

Battle,  Mrs.  A  character,  famous 
for  her  Uiiowled^e  of  whist,  in 
Charles  Lamb's  ''Essays  of  Elia.'' 

'*  A  clear  lire,  a  cleau  hearth,  and  the 
rigor  <if  the  game.''  This  was  the  cele- 
linreij  irhu  ot  old  Sarah  Battle  (now 
wirh  (iod),  who,  next  to  her  devotions, 
loved  a  }cood  game  of  whist.  Cinrles 
Ln»ib.    Mrs.  But  tit ''i  Opinions  on  Whist 

Battle    of   the    Three    Emperors. 

Tlie  battle  of  Austerljtz  (1805)  is  so 
called  because  Napoleon  I.  com- 
manded the  Krencli,  and  the  Emper- 
ors Francis  II.  and  Alexander  I.  com- 
manded the  Austrians  and  Russians. 

Bay'ard  {Fr.  pnm.  bi'af')  of  India. 
A  name  applied  to  Sir  Janies  Out- 
ram,  the  Englisb  general  (1802- 
18tj;3). 

Bade,  Adam.  The  hero  of  the  |M)p- 
ular  novel  of  the  same  name  by 
Getjri^e  Eliot,  1858.  The  strong  and 
manly  character  of  Adam  IJede  is 
said  to  be  a  family  portrait. 

Bede,  Seth.  A  character  in  George 
Eliot's  novel  of  "Adam  liede," 
1858,  said  to  be  drawn  for  Mr.  Sam- 
iifl  Evans,  the  uncle  of  the  author- 
ess. 

Bedott'.  "Widow.  Frances  M. 
\Vhitchpr  was  the  author  of  the  well- 
known  "■  Widow  IJedott  Papers," 
1867. 

B^lise  (beligo).  A  character  in 
Moiiere's  (1R22-1673)  comedy  of 
"  Les  Femmes  Savantes." 

Ben-Hur.  A  younir  Jew.  the  hero  of 
a  widely  circulated  novel  of  the  pres- 
et t  d^v  bv  Lew.  Wallace,  e?)titled 
"  Ben-Hur  :  a  Tale  of  the  Christ." 

Billings,  Josh.  The  pseudonym  of 
Henrv  W.  Shaw,  an  American 
writer  {1818  188.5),  famous  f..r  his  hu- 
morous productions.  He  first  wrote 
luider  the  name  of  "Josh  Billings'* 
ill  18fi.3.  and  since  then  has  main- 
tained in  his  comic  sketches  a  high 
repntafion  ff»r  insiifht  into  human 
nature  and  iriginality  of  expression 
and  spelling,  and  for  the  shrewd 
sense  and  humor  of  his  homelv  max- 


ims. "Josh  Billings  Allminax" 
has  enjo^'ed  a  very  wide  ciiculation. 

Bishops'  Bible.  An  edition  of  the 
Bible,  pid^iished  under  the  supervis- 
ion of  Archbishop  Parker  in  1568. 

Black  Dwarf.  The  name  applied  to 
the  hero  of  Scott's  (1771-1832)  novel 
of  this  title. 

Black-eyed  Susan.  The  subject  of 
a  ballad  of  the  same  name  bv  John 
Gay  (1688-1732).  Douglas  Jerrold 
(1803-1857)  wrote  a  very  popular 
drama  "Black-eyed  Susan." 

Black  George.  A  character  in  Field- 
ing's (1707  -  1754)  "Tom  Jones." 

Blacksmith  of  Antwerp.  A  name 
.sometimes  given,  from  his  original 
occupation,  to  Quentin  Matsys,  the 
Flemish  painter  (146U-152'J).  ' 

Blair,  Adam.  The  hero  of  a  Scottish 
tale  of  the  same  title  by  John  G. 
Lockhart  (1794-1854). 

Blind.  Bard.  Homer  is  referred  to  by 
this  expression. 

Or  list'ning  to  the    tide,  with  closed 
sight. 
Be  that  blind  bard,  who  on  the  Chian 
strand 
By  those  deep  sounds  possessed  with 
inward  light. 
Beheld  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssee 
Rise  to  the  sweUing  of  the  voicef  nl  sea. 
Coleridge. 

Homer  i.s  also  referred  to  as  the 
"  Blind  old  man  of  Scio's  rocky 
isle"  by  Byron  in  his  "Bride  of 
Abydos."  Milton  is  also  alluded  to 
as  the  Blind  poet 
Blind  old  man  of  Scio's  rocky  isle. 
See  Blind  Bard. 

Blood-Council.  This  extraordinary 
tribunal,  called  the  Council  of 
Troubles,  hut  known  in  history  by 
the  more  expressive  name  which  it 
soon  acquired  of  the  Comicil  of 
Blood,  was  established  in  the  Neth- 
erlands by  the  Duke  of  Alva  in  or- 
der to  crush  out  the  liberties  of  the 
people,  and  held  its  first  »^ession  on 
the  20th  of  September,  1567.  The 
nominal  purpose  of  this  arbitrarily 
created  court  was  the  punishment  of 
treason,  according  to  its  own  defi- 
Jiitions  of  that  crime,  by  instant 
death. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  wtiidi  the  numl)ers  otter  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxik 


BLO 


404 


BRO 


jj;^p°*  "  ^«  well  diflthi''  new  and  terri- 
ble I'ligine  perform  its  work,  tlmt  in  less 
tliiin  tliree  iiionttis  from  the  time  of  its 
erection,  eighteen  hundred  huma  i 
beings  had  suffered  death  by  its  sum- 
mary proceedings  ;  some  of  the  hiidiest, 
the  noblest,  and  the  most  virtuous  in 
the  land  among  the  number.  .  .  .  Thus 
the  whole  country  became  a  charnel- 
house  :  the  death-bell  tolled  hourly  in 
every  village;  not  a  family  but  was 
called  to  mourn  for  its  dearest  relatives, 
while  the  survivors  stalked  listlessly 
about,  the  ghosts  of  their  former  selves, 
among  the  wrecks  of  their  former 
homes.  The  spirit  of  the  nation,  within 
a  few  months  after  the  arrival  of  Alva, 
Seemed  hoijelessly  broken.''  Motley. 

Under  this  universal  decree  the  indus- 
try of  the  Blood- Council  might  now 
seem  supertluous.  Motley. 

Bloody  Shirt.  The  pliiase  to  "wave 
tlie  bloody  shirt"  has  been  often 
made  use  of  since  the  Civil  War  in 
the  United  States  in  appealiiif;^  to  the 
feelings  stirred  up  during-  that  con- 
flict. 

BofiQn,  Nicodemus  (Also  called  the 
Golden  Dustman  and  Koddv).  A 
character  in  Dickens's  (181'2  1870) 
novel  of  "Our  Mutual  Friend," 
notable  for  oddity  of  manner,  good- 
ness of  heart,  and  strict  integrity. 
Miss  Jennie  Collins  established  in 
Boston  in  1870  a  very  useful  charity 
called  Boffin's  Bower  (the  name  be- 
ing taken  from  Dickens)  for  the  as- 
sistance of  working-girls,  and  the  suc- 
cess of  this  Bower  has  since  led  to  the 
establishment  of  other  institutions  of 
the  same  name  in  other  places. 

Book  of  Books.     A  name  often  given 

to    the    Bilile.      See   also   Book   of 

Life,  infra. 
Book    cf  Life.     A    name   sometimes 

applit^d  to  the  Bible.     See  also  Book 

OF  Books,  supra. 
Borandan,     or     Borondon.       See 

Island  of  St.  Bhanu.vn,  in  body 

of  book. 
"  Town    and  steeples  vanished  in  the 

haze,  like  the  domes  and  minarets  of  the 

enchanted  isle  of  Borondon.'''' 

Atlantic  Monthly. 

Bow'linK,  Tom.  The  hero  of  a  famous 
sea-song  bv  C'harles  Dibdin  (1745- 
1814). 


"  '  Tom  Bowling,"  in  its  popular 

sense,  does  not  refer  to  Smollett's  sailor 

in  '  Roderick  Random,"  but  to  the  hero 

of  one  of  the  best  of  Dibdin'ssea  l\ric8."' 

AthenoEnm. 

See  Bowi.iNG,  Tom,  in  body  of  book. 
Boy  thorn,  Lawrence.  A  character 
in  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  of 
"Bleak  House"  drawn  as  a  repre- 
sentation of  Walter  Savage  Landor. 
^^^  "  We  all  conceived  a  preposses- 
sion in  his  favor:  for  there  was  a  sterling 
quality  in  his  laugh,  and  in  his  vigorous 
healthy  voice,  and  in  the  roundness  and 
fullness  with  which  he  uttered  every 
word  he  spoke,  and  in  the  very  fur^  of 
his  superlatives,  which  seemed  to  go  off 
like  blank  cannons,  and  hurt  nothing.'' 

Dickens. 

BrafTRadocchio  (brag-ga-diyshi-o). 
A  boastful  character  introduced  by 
Spenser  (1553V-1599)  in  his  "Fa- 
erie Queene,"  from  which  personifi- 
cation the  popular  use  of  the  word  is 
doubtless  derived. 

A  Knight  that  way  there  chaunced  to 

repaire ; 
Yet  Knight   he  was  not,  but  a  boastfull 

swaine 
That  deedes  of  armes  had  ever  in   de- 

spaire, 
Proud  Braggadocchio,  that  in  vaunting 

vaine 
His   glory  did    repose    and    credit    did 

maiiitaine.  Sijcnser. 

Brave  Fleming,  The.  A  name  given 
to  Jean  Andre  van  der  Mersch,  the 
Belgian  patriot  (1734-1792). 

Breitm.ann,  Hans  (hanss  lirelt-man). 
The  name  under  which  Charles  God- 
fre}'  Leland  issued  a  series  of  humor- 
ous poems  entitled  "  Hans  Breitmann 
Ballads,"  1868-9. 

Brooke,  Dorothea.  The  heroine  of 
"  Middlemarch."  a  novel  bv  George 
Eliot  (1820  V-1880). 

Brooks  of  Sheffield.  The  name  by 
which  Mr.  Murdstone  called  David 
Copperfield  [in  Dickens's  (1812-1870) 
novel  of  that  namej  when  making 
arrangements  for  him,  in  order  tiiat 
he  might  not  understand  what  was 
talked  about.  It  is  sometimes  quoted 
in  describing  any  mystification  of 
one  person  by  others  or  the  like. 

Brow^die,  John.  A  kind-hearted 
Yorksliireman  of  great  strength  and 


aa~  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"    with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


BRO 


405 


CAR 


gentleness  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870) 
"Nicholas  Nickleby." 

Brown,  Tom.  The  hero  of  a  famous 
work  of  riction  by  Thomas  Hutches 
entitled  "Tom  Brown's  School 
Days,"  and  of  its  sequel  '*  Tom  Brown 
at  Oxford,"  —  stories  whicli  have 
enjoyed  i^reat  ])opuiarity  from  their 
admirable  delineation  of  school  and 
colleije  life  in  Kngland. 

BrummaKem  Johnson.  An  uncom- 
plimentarv  nickname  bestowed  upon 
Dr.  Samuel  I'arr  (1747-1825)  in  con- 
sequence of  his  close  imitation  of  Dr. 
Johnson. 

Bucket,  Mr.  Inspector.  A  detec- 
tive in  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel 
of  "Bleak  House." 

Bungay.    A  character  in  Thackeray's 


(1811-1863)  novel  entitled  "The  His. 
tory  of  Pendennis." 

Bur'idan's  Ass.  This  allusion  to  in- 
decision of  character  is  derived  from 
John  Buridan  the  schoolman  (abt. 
1315-l'3o8)  who  was  the  originator  of 
the  sophism  that,  "  If  a  luiuf^ry  ass 
were  placed  between  two  measures 
of  oats  so  that  each  should  make 
exactly  the  same  impression  on  his 
senses,  being  incapable  of  making  a 
choice,  he  must  inevitably  die  of 
starvation." 

Butcher  of  CuUo'den.  A  designa- 
tion applied  to  William  Augustus, 
Duke  of  Cumberland,  in  allusion  to 
his  cruelty  and  the  unnecessary 
slaughter  committed  by  him  after 
his  victory  at  Culloden  in  1746. 


C, 


Cadwallader,  Mrs.    A  character  in 

"  Middlemarch,"  a  novel  by  George 

Eliot  (1820?-1880). 
Calvo,  Baldasaa're.     A  character  in 

George  Eliot's  (1820V-1880)  novel  of 

"Romola." 
Ca-mil'la.     The  heroine  of  a  novel  of 

the  same  name  by  Madame  d' Arblav 

(1752-1840). 

Camille  (kamel).  The  heroine  and 
title  of  the  well-known  English  ver- 
sion of  the  novel  entitled  "  La  Dame 
aux  Camelias  "  and  the  coinedy  of 
the  same  name  bv  Alexander  Dumas, 
Jils  (b.  1824).  The  name  of  Camille 
in  the  original  French  works  is  Mar- 
guerite Gautier,  and  that  of  her  lover, 
Armand  Duval. 

Captain  Costia:an.  A  prominent 
character  in  Thackeray's  (1811-1863) 
novel  of  "  Pendennis." 

Captain  Shandon.  A  character  in 
Thackeray's  (1811-1863)  novel  of 
"  I^endennis." 

Captain  "Whiffle.  A  character  in 
Smollett's  (1721-1771)  novel  of  "  Rod- 
erick   Random,"    said    to   be    Lord 


Harry  Poulett,  Duke  of  Bolton,  who 
married  Wolfe's  sweetheart. 

Carleton.  A  nom  de  plume  of  Charles 
Carleton  Coffin,  a  well-known  writer 
of  the  present  day. 

Carroll,  Lewis  The  pseudonym  of 
Charles  L.  Dodgson,  author'  of  a 
widely  circulated  juvenile  story  en- 
titled "Alice's  Adventures  in  Won- 
derland," and  of  other  works,  among 
which  are  "  Through  the  Looking- 
glass,"  "  Hunting  of  the  Snark," 
etc. 

Carthae:inian  Lion.  An  appellation 
given  to  Hannibal,  on  account  of  his 
great  bravery  and  military  energy. 

Carton,  Sydney.  An  idle,  dissipated, 
incapable  character  in  Dickens's 
novel  "A  Tale  of  Two  Cities,"  who 
becomes  an  ideal  of  sublime  self- 
sacrifice  and  devotion  by  freely  giv- 
ing his  life  at  the  guillotine  to  secure 
a  happy  life  with  another  to  the 
woman  he  loved. 

j6Sg="  "  The  conception  of  this  story 
and  of  this  character  is  sublime,  and 
shows  in  its  author  an  ideal  of  m.TSua- 
niinity  and  of   charity  unsurpassed   in 


and  for  the  RemarkB  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  liter  certain  words  refer,  gee  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


CAS 


406 


CIR 


the  history  of  all  literature.  .  .  .  In  all 
litfrature,  in  all  liistory,  there  is  not  a 
grmder,  lovt-lier  figure,  than    the   self- 
\*reckeil,  self-devoted  Sydnev  Carton." 
R.  G.  While. 

CasKubon,  Mr.  A  prnniinent  char- 
atttM',  absorbed  in  his  studies,  in 
"  Middlemarcli,"  a  novel  bv  George 
Ehot  (1820V-1880j. 

Cass.  Godfrey.  A  character  in  "  Silas 
Alariier,"  a  novel  bv  George  Eliot 
(I8-2UV-1880). 

Castlemon,  Harry.  The  pseudonym 
of  Cliarles  A.  Fosdick,  author  of  nu- 
merous works  of  fiction. 

Cavendish.  The  pseudonym  of  Henry 
Jones,  a  well-known  authority  on 
whist  and  other  games. 

Caxto  8,  The.  Tlie  subjects  of  a 
novel  of  the  same  name  bv  Bulwer 
(1805-1873;. 

Cecil.  The  hero  of  Mrs.  Gore's  (1799- 
J8t)l)  novel  entitled  "Cecil,  or  the 
Adventures  of  a  Coxcomb." 

Cecilia.  The  heroine  of  Madame 
d'.Arblay's  novel  of  the  same  name 
which  appeared  in  1782,  and  was 
placed,  accordintr  to  Macaulay,  "by 
general  acclamation,  among  the  clas- 
sical novels  of  England." 

Censor  of  the  Aee.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Thomas  Carlyle  (1795- 
1881)  from  the  well-known  character 
of  his  works. 

Chpmplin,  Virginia.  A  pseudonym 
of  Grace  V.  Lord. 

Chnrles's  "Wnin.  [From  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  meaning  the  Churl's,  country- 
man's, or  farmer's  wain.]  The  groiin 
of  stars  known  as  the  "Dipper" 
in  the  constellation  of  the  "Great 
Bear." 

No  littlp  Gradgrind  had  ever  learnt  the 
silly  'inerlf.  Twinkle,  twinkle,  little  star  ; 
how  I  wonder  what  you  are  !  No  little 
Gradgrind  had  ever  known  wonder  on 
the  suhiect,  each  little  Gradgrind  hav- 
ing nt  five  years  old  dissected  the  Great 
Bear  like  a  Professor  Owen  and  driven 
Chnrlps^s  Wain  like  a  locomotive  engine- 
driver.  Dickens. 
Last  May  we  made  a  crown  of  flowers : 

we  had  a  merry  day  ; 
Beneath  the  hawtliorn  on  the  green  they 

made  me  Queen  of  May  ; 


And  we  danced  about  the  majrpole  an^ 

in  tlie  hazel  copse. 
Till  C'/i(nie-s\s-  Wain  came  out  above  the 

tall  white  cliimuey-tops. 

Tennyson. 

Charlotte  Elizabeth.  The  nom  dt 
plume  of  Mrs.  Tonna  (Charlotte  E. 
Brown),  an  English  authoress  (1792- 
184Gj. 

Chartist  ClerKyman.  A  name  piven 
to  Charles  Kingsley  (1819-1875),  the 
author  of  "  Alton  Locke,"  in  conse- 
quence of  his  interest  in  the  welfare 
and  education  of  the  W(.rking  classes 
and  his  efforts  to  ameliorate  thei,'" 
condition.     See  Locke,  Alton. 

Cheap  John.  A  cant  name  for  an 
itinerant  auctioneer. 

It  would  be  if  they  were  vulgar  peo- 
ple ;  but  these  are  not  grocers  nor  Cheap 
Johns;  these  are  the  high  noblesse  of 
France.  Charles  Reade. 

Cheeryble  Brothers.  A  firm  of  twin 
brotiiers,  in  Dickens's  (1812-187U) 
novel  of  "  Nicholas  Nickleby,"  of 
most  warm-hearted  natures  and  dis- 
tinguished for  their  many  acts  of 
charit}'  and  benevolence.  Dickens 
is  said  to  have  drawn  the  characters 
of  the  Cheeryble  brothers  from  the 
firm  of  William  Grant  and  Brothers 
of  Manchei-ter,  Eng. 

51^^  "  Those  who  take  an  interect  in 
this  tale  will  be  glad  to  learn  that  the 
Brothers  Cheeryble  live  ;  that  their  lib- 
eral charity,  their  singleness  of  heart, 
their  noble  nature,  and  their  unbounded 
benevolence  are  no  creations  of  the 
author's  brain.  ...  I  believe  the  ap- 
plications for  loans,  gifts,  and  offices  of 
profit  which  I  have  been  requested  to 
forward  to  the  orisrinals  of  the  Brothers 
(Cheeryble  (with  whom  1  never  inter- 
changed any  communication  in  my 
life),  would  have  exhausted  the  com- 
bined patronage  of  all  the  Lord  Chan- 
cellors since  the  :iccession  of  the  House 
of  Brunswick,  and  wnuM  have  broken 
the  Rest  of  the  Bank  of  England." 

Dickens. 

Chinese  Gordon.  A  name  often 
popularly  applied  to  Charles  George 
Gordon,  in  allusion  to  his  career  in 
China. 

Cincinnatus,  Plough  of.     See 

PLctUGH    OF    ClXCINNATUS. 

Circle  of  Popil'ius.    Rome  jealous  of 


For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"    with  the  accompanying  Ezplanationi 


CIT 


407 


CRO 


the  encroachments  which  Antiochus 

Epipliaiif.-,  kiiii;-  uf  Syria,  \v,is  iiiak- 
iiii;'  upon  the  territory  of  Ki;vpt,  sent 
her  consul  Popilius  l.aenas  to  induce 
him  to  abandon  his  eoiuiuests.  The 
king  aslied  time  to  deliberate.  Po- 
pilius, with  an  imperious  gesture, 
traced  around  Antiochus  a  circle 
upon  the  sand,  saying,  "Before  go- 
ing out  from  this  circle,  give  me  the 
answer  which  I  shall  carry  back  to 
the  Senate."  The  king,  terrified, 
yielded  and  abandoned  his  con- 
quests. 

Napoleon  was  peremptory  with  regard 
to  the  continuance  of  the  armistice,  say- 
ing that  to  stipulate  for  a  month  to  treat  i 
of   so  difficult   questions   was   to   draw  I 
around  liim  the  Circle  of  Pomlius.  \ 

Thiers.  Trans. 

City  of  the  Sea.  A  designation,  of 
obvious  derivation,  often  applied  to 
^he  city  of  Venice. 

The  Rialto  at  Venice  and  the  Ponte 
Vecchio  at  Florence  are  identified  with 
the  financial  enterprise  of  the  one  city 
and  the  goldsmiths'  skill  of  the  other : 
one  was  long  the  Exchange  of  the  "  City 
of  (he  Sen,  and  still  revives  the  image 
of  Shylock  and  the  rendezvous  of  Anto- 
nio ;  while  the  other  continues  to  repre- 
sent mediaeval  trade  in  the  (luaint  little 
shops  of  jewelers  and  lapidaries. 

Tuckerman. 

Cockpen,  Laird  of.  A  designation 
given  to  a  certain  Mark  Caross,  the 
owner  of  the  lands  of  Cockpen,  near 
Edinburgh,  and  who  is  said  to  liave 
enlivened  Charles  the  Second  during 
his  wanderings. 

Columbus,   Egg  of.     See    Egg    of 

(  'oLUMliUS. 

Coningsby.  The  hero  of  the  political 
novel  of  the  same  name,  bv  Benjamin 
Disraeli  (1805-1887). 

Contradictiora,     Master    of.      See 

MasTKU   of    CONTIIAIJICTIONS. 

Conway,  Hugh.  The  nom  f/e  phivie 
of  Krederick  J.  Fargus  (1847-1885) 
the  well-known  Knjrlisli  writer,  au- 
thor of  the  novel  ''Called  Back," 
which  has  enjoyed  a  phenomenal 
popularity,  and  various  other  stories 
and  poems. 

Corinthian  Tom.  See  Tom  and 
.Ikkky. 


Cornelia,  Jewels  of.     See  Jewels 

OF    CoKNKLIA. 

Correggio  of  Sculptors.  A  name 
sometnnes  given  to  Jean  (ioujon 
(1515':'-1572),  the  celebrated  French 
sculptor,  from  the  softness  and  del- 
icate roundness  of  his  execution. 
Also  sometimes  called  the  father  of 
French  sculpture. 

Cosette  (kfiget).  The  name  of  a  char- 
acter who  figures  in  Victor  Hugo's 
(1802-1885)  romance  of  "les  Mis^- 
rables." 

Costigan,    Captain.    See    oAptain 

CoSTIGAN. 

Cottonopolis.  A  designation  some- 
times given  to  Manchester,  England. 

Council  of  Blood.  See  Blood- 
Council. 

Council  of  Troubles.  See  Blood- 
Council. 

Count  of  Monte  Cristo.  See  Monte 
Ckisto. 

Craddock,   Charles  Egbert.      The 

no7n  de  plume  of  Miss  Mary  N. 
Murfree,  a  popular  novelist  of  the 
present  day. 

Cranes    of    Ibycus.     See    Ibycus, 

Cranes  of. 

Crawley,  Kawdon.  A  character  in 
Thackeray's  (1811-1863)  novel  of 
"Vanity  Fair."  He  marries  Becky 
Sharpe. 

Cringle,  Tom.  The  hero  of  a  nautical 
tale  by  Michael  Scott  (1789  1835), 
entitled  "Tom  Cringle's  Log." 

Croppies.  A  name  given  to  the  in- 
surgents and  disloyal  in  Ireland 
during  the  last  century  who  wore 
their  hair  short  after  the  fashion  of 
the  French  revolutionists. 

Crow,  Jim.  The  original  Jim  Crow 
is  said  to  have  been  a  negro  (named 
Jim  CufF)  of  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Ac- 
cording to  E.  S.  Connor  he  was  an 
old  negro  •)wned  by  one  Crow  in 
Louisville,  Ky.,  and  derived  his  name 
from  that  of  his  master.  Thomas  1). 
Rice,  the  noted  delineator  of  negro 
character,  was  known  as  "Jim  Crow 
Rice,"  from  his  personation  of  this 
character. 


ana  tor  the  Keinarks  and  Kules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xixil. 


CUM 


408 


DIG 


JI^^  "  He  [.lim  Crow]  used  tn  croon  a 
queer  tune  with  words  of  his  own,  and 
at  the  end  of  each  stanza  would  give  a 
little  jump,  and  when  he  cani(!  down 
he  set  his  '  heel  a-rockin". '  He  called  it 
'jumping  Jim  Crow."  The  words  of 
the  refrain  were  :  — 

'  Wheel  about,  turn  about. 

Do  ies  so, 
An'  ebery  time  I  wheel  about, 

I  jump  Jim  Crow  !  ' 
Rice  watched  him  closely,  and  saw  that 
here  was  a  character  unknown  to  the 
stage,  lie  wrote  several  stanzas,  changed 
the  air  somewhut,  quickened  it,  made  up 
exactly  like  the  old  negro,  and  sang  to  a 
Louisville  audience.  They  were  wild 
with  delight,  and  on  the  first  night  he 
was  recalled  twenty  times."  Connor. 
"  Rice  went  to  England  and  was  im- 
mediately a  chief  feature  in  the  London 
theatrical  world."'  W^n.  Winter. 

Cumberland  Poet.     A   desij^nation 
sometimes  givea  to  William  Words- 


worth (1770-1850),  born  at  Cocker, 
mouth  in  Cumberland. 

Cumbrian  Poet.  A  name  given  to 
Robert  Anderson,  a  British  poet 
(1770   i8.'j:j). 

Curse  of  Scotland.  A  common  name 
in  Great  Britain  for  the  "nine  of 
diamonds,"  said  to  have  been  so 
called  owiiif^  ti>  Duke  William  of 
Cumlierland  writin;^^  his  orders  for 
military  fxecutions  after  the  battle 
of  Culloden  on  the  back  of  that  card. 

Curt-Hose  (or  Shmt-.Shanks).  A  sur- 
name applied  to  Robert  II.,  Duke  of 
Normandy. 

For  minor  princes  "  Cnrthose "  was 
pleasanter  tlian  "Bloody  Butcher,"  ap- 
plied to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland. 

London  Athenceum. 

Curtius,    Gulf    of.    See    Gulf   op 

CUKTIUS. 


D. 


Dalton,  Reginald.  The  hero  of  a 
novel  of  the  same  name,  a  story  of 
English  universitv  life  bv  John  G. 
Lookhart  (1794-1854). 

Damocles,  Sword  of.     See   Sworu 

OF    DAMoCt.KS. 

Danbury  News  M!an.  James  M. 
Bailey,  an  American  humorist  of  the 
present  day. 

Dancing:  Chancellor,  kn  epithet  be- 
stowed upon  Sir  Christopher  Hatton 
(1540-1591),  from  his  having  been 
made  chancellor  and  knight  of  the 
garter  by  Queen  Elizabetli  in  conse- 
quence of  his  iri'aceful  dancing  in 
her  presence.  He  is  spoken  of  by 
Lord  Campt)ell  as  a  gay  young  cava- 
lier, never  called  to  the  bar,  and 
famed  chieriy  for  his  handsome  per- 
son, his  taste  in  dress,  and  his  "skill 
ill  dancing." 

Darnay,  Charles.  A  character  in 
"  .\  Tale  of  Two  Cities  "  bv  Charles 
Dickens  (1812-1870).  to  save  whom 
Svdnev  Carton  (q.  v.)  sacrifices  his 
life.     ' 

Dedlock,  Lady  Honoria.     A  promi- 


nent character  in   Dickens's  (1812- 
1870)  novel  of  "  Bleak  House." 

Defargei'dafarge)  Madame  Theresd. 
The  wife  of  Monsieur  Defarge  (see 
inf'rn),  and  ringleader  of  revolution- 
ary women  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870) 
"  Tale  of  Two  Cities." 

Defarge  (dnfarge)  Monsieur  Ernest. 
One  of  the  prime  movers  in  many 
of  the  riotous  proceedings  in  the  St. 
Antoine  quarter  in  Paris  during  the 
French  Revolution,  in  Dickens's 
"  Tale  of  Two  Cities."     See  supi-a. 

Deronda,  Daniel.  The  hero  of 
George  Eliot's  (1820?-1880)  novel 
of  the  same  name. 

(II^^"One  of  the  noblest  and  most 
original  characters  anions  the  heroes  im- 
agined by  poets,  dramatists,  and  novel- 
ists." E   P.   ^yhipplf. 

Dick,  Mr.  A  partially  insane  man. 
living  with  Miss  Betsev  Trotwood. 
in  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  of 
"David  Coppertield,"  engaged  in 
writing  a  memorial  which  he  vainly 
endeavors  to  keep  free  from  allu- 
sions to  Charles  the  First. 


OjS"   For  the  "  Key  to  the    Scheme  of   Pronunciation,"  with   the  accompanying  Explanation* 


DIO 


409 


EGG 


Dloeenes.   Lantern   of.     See  Lan- 

TKKN    OF    DlOGKNKS. 

Diogenes,  Tub  of.    See  Tub  of  Dio- 

GKNKS. 

Dircsean  Swan.  A  designation  sonie- 
tiines  given  to  Pindar  (abt.  522-442 
B.  c),  the  lyric  poet  of  Greece,  wlio 
lived  at  Thebes  near  the  river  Dirce. 

This  passage  is  .  .  .  connected  with  that 
noble  tone  of  pensive  morahty,  so  akin 
to  the  Oriental  spirit,  and  by  which  the 
"  Dir<(P<m  iS«(//i'' is  distinguished  from 
his  fellows.  Keightleij. 

Doctor  Jekyll.  The  chief  character 
of  a  popuhtr  roniatice  of  the  present 
dav  bv  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  (b. 
1850),'eniitled  '"The  Strange  Storv 
of  Ur.  Jekyll  and  Mr.  Hyde:" 

Dombey,  Paul.  Son  of  Mr.  Dombey 
ill  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  en- 
titled ''DombeA'  and  Son." 

Domestic  Poet.  A  name  by  which 
William  Cowper  (1731-1800)  is  some- 
times known. 

Donnithorne,  Arthur.  A  character 
ill  "  Adam  Bede,"  a  novel  bv  George 
Eliot  (1820  V-1 880). 

Dorrit,  Little.    The  name  applied  to 


Amy  Dorrit  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870) 
novel  of  "  Little  Dorrit." 

Dot.  A  pet  name  given  from  her  dimin- 
utive size  to  Mrs.  Mary  Peervbingle, 
the  carrier's  wife  in  '"The  (.'ricket 
on  the  Hearth,"  a  short  storv  bv 
Dickens  (1812-1870).  The  story  has 
been  dramatized  by  Boucicault. 

Driver  of  Europe.  [Fr.  Le  Cor  her 
(le  V Europe. '\  The  Duke  de  Choisciil- 
Aml)oise  (1719-1785) ;  — so  called  by 
the  Ein])ress  of  Russia  on  account  of 
his  great  influence  in  all  diplomatic 
and  political  cabals. 

Drood,  Edwin.  The  hero  of  an  un- 
tinished  novel  entitled  "  The  Mvsterv 
of  Edwin  Drood,"  bv  Dickens  (1812- 
1870). 

Duchess,  The.  The  pseudcmym  of 
Margaret  Argles,  the  author  of  nu- 
merous popular  works  of  fiction. 

Dutch  Sappho.  A  name  applied  to 
Catherine  Lescaille,  the  Dutch  poet- 
ess (1649-1711). 

Dutch  Vauban.  A  name  applied  to 
Menno,  Baron  van  Coehorn,  the 
Dutch  engineer  and  general  (1641  ?- 
1704?). 


E. 


Easy,  Mr.  Midshipman.  See  Mid- 
shipman Easy. 

Eden  of  the  Pyrenees.  The  desig- 
nation given  to  the  Val  d'Azun,  a 
beautiful  valle}''  in  the  southern  part 
of  France. 

Egg  of  Columbus.  It  is  related,  that 
Christopher  Columbus,  after  his  re- 
turn from  his  first  voyage  of  discov- 
ery, dining  at  the  house  of  a  Spanish 
grandee,  was  exposed  to  the  dispar- 
aging and  calumniating  remarks  of 
pome  who  sat  at  the  tal)le  with  him. 
His  detractors  thinking  to  lessen 
the  merit  of  his  discovery  said  that 
"after  the  first  step  had  been  taken, 
all  that  followed  was  easy  enough.  It 
was  only  necessary  to  have  thought 
of  the  tiling  in  the  first  place."  The 
great  man  remained  silent  during  the 


discussion,  but  reflecting  a  moment, 
he  called  for  an  &i:\j:,  and  presenting 
it  to  the  noble  guests  he  said,  "  Who 
of  you  can  make  this  e.g^  stand  upon 
its  end?"  The  e^^  passed  from 
hand  to  hand  and  returned  to  Co- 
lumbus without  the  problem  having 
been  solved.  Then,  taking  the  egg, 
Columi)us  broke  it  gently  on  his 
plate  and  it  remained  standing  up- 
right. All  exclaimed,  "That  was  not 
difficult."  "No,"  replied  Columbus 
•with  an  ironical  smile,  "  but  the  dif- 
ficulty was  to  have  thought  of  it." 

The  Egg  of  Columbus  has  passed 
into  a  proverl)  to  siirnify  anything 
which  one  cannot  do,  and  yet  which 
one  finds  very  easy  after  being 
shown.  The  authenticity  of  this 
story  has  been  denied  on  account  of 
a  similar  anecdote  which  is  related 


And  for  the  Heniarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  alter  eertuin  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


ELS 


410 


FTG 


of  Bninellesclii.  the  Florentine  archi- 
tect, who  lived  nearly  a  century  pre- 
vidus.  It  is  said  that  for  tiie  |tur|iose 
of  provin<i  that  his  plan  of  buikl- 
iny;  tlie  dome  of  the  Cathedral  at 
Floretue  was  feasible,  he  tixed  an 
ejjii  ill  an  uprij;ht  position  by  break- 
iiiic  one  <if  its  ends,  and  thus  demon- 
strated that  a  vault  could  be  raised 
without  interior  support. 

I  was  speaking  of  a  very  important  im- 
proveiueiit  by  which  the  preparation  of 
leather  will  be  in  future  much  expedited. 
It  is  tlie  /iV/(/  of  (  oiumbns,  and  will  rev- 
olutionize the  whole  business. 

Louis  Jourdnn. 

(J^^  "  Many  of  the  historical  proverbs 
have  a  doubtful  paternity.  Columbus's 
egg  is  claimed  for  Brunelleschi."" 

Emfr.ion. 

Els'mere,  Robert.  The  hero  of  a 
recent  and  very  popular  religious 
novel  of  the  same  name  by  Mrs. 
Humphry  Ward. 


Era'ly,  Little.  Mr.  Peggotty's  niece, 
a  beautiful  girl  in  Dirkeiis's  (1812- 
1870j  novel  of  "David  tloppertield," 
who  is  persuaded  to  elope  with 
Steerforth,  by  whom  she  is  after- 
wards deserted. 

English  Achilles.  See  Achillks 
ov  England. 

English  R.  scius.  A  name  given  by 
his  contemporaries  to  Richard  Hur- 
bage  (d.  1029;.  See  also  English 
Koscius  in  body  of  book. 

English    Senec^.     Lawrence   Sterne 

(1713-17G8)    was    so   called    by   Up. 

Warburton.      See     also     English 

Skneca  in  body  of  book. 
Eppie.     A  character  in  George  Eliot's 

(1820?-1880)  novel  of  "Silas  Mar- 

ner." 

Eva.  The  daughter  of  St.  Clare  in 
Mrs.  Stowe's  ''  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin." 


F. 


Falsehood,  Field  of.     See  Field  of 

FaI  SKIIOOD. 

Pang,  Mr,  A  police-justice  in  Dick- 
ens's (1812-1870)  novel  "  Oliver 
Twist,"  said  to  be  meant  for  the 
likeness  of  a  brutal  and  overbearing 
officer  by  the  name  of  Laing. 

Fantine  (fontin).  The  name  of  an  in- 
teresting character  in  Victor  Hnero's 
(1802-1885)  romance  of  "  Les  Mis*5- 
rables." 

Father  of  Modem  Painting.  A 
title  commoidv  given  to  Cimabue, 
the  Italian  paii'iter  (1240-1300). 

Fedalma.  Daughter  of  the  gypsy 
chief  Zarca,  and  heroine  of  George 
Eliot's  (1820V-1880)  poem  of  "The 
Spanish  Gypsy." 

Festus.  A  character  in  the  poem  of 
the  same  name  bv  P.  J.  Bailey  (b. 
1816). 

Field  of  Falsehood.  The  designa- 
tion given  to  a  spot  in  Germany, 
near  Colmar,  so  called  from  being 
the  place  of  the  desertion  from  Louis 


le  Debonnaire  to  his  sons  of  the  nobles 
who  pretended  to  be  on  the  side  of 
the  former. 

Field  of  Forty  Footsteps.    A  place 

in  the  rear  of  Montague  House,  Lon- 
don, so  called  from  the  tradition  that 
two  brothers,  in  mortal  combat  on 
account  of  a  lady  in  the  time  of  the 
Duke  of  Monmouth's  rebellion,  hav- 
ing been  killed,  forty  footprints  re- 
mained impressed  for  years  upon  the 
soil. 

(il^p^  "The  combatants  fought  fo  fe- 
rociously as  to  destroy'  each  other ;  after 
which  their  footsteps,  imprinted  on  the 
ground  in  the  vengeful  struggle,  were 
said  to  remain,  with  the  indentntions 
produced  by  their  advancing  and  reced- 
ing ;  nor  would  any  grass  or  vegetation 
ever  grow  over  these  /orti/  footsteps. 
Miss  Porter  and  her  sisier  upon  this  fic- 
tion founded  their  ingenious  romince, 
'  Coming  Out,  or  the  Field  of  Forty 
Footsteps,'  but  they  entirely  depart 
from  the  local  tradition."  Thvhs. 

Fighting   Joe.     A,  name   applied    to 
Joseph  Hooker,  the  American  general. 


ikff'  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciatioa,"   with  the  accompanying  Ezplanationa, 


FLE 


411 


GOL 


Fleds:eby,  Mr.  (called  Fascination 
Fledj^eby).  A  dandy,  foolisli  exee])t 
in  nioiiev  matters,  in  Dickens's 
(1812-1870)  novel  of  "Our  Mutual 
Friend." 

Fleshly  School.  A  name  sarcastic- 
ally given  in  reference  to  the  char- 
acter of  their  productions  to  certain 
authors  of  the  present  day,  among 
whom  may  be  mentioned  Morris, 
Swinburne,  and  Rossetti.  See  Spas- 
modic School  in  body  of  book. 

Flite,  Miss.  A  partially  deranged 
suitor  in  the  Courts  of  Chancery  in 
Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  of 
"Bleak  House." 

Flutter,  Sir  Fopling.  The  subject 
of  a  comedy  of  the  same  name  by 
Sir  George  Etheredge  (abt.  1636- 
1690). 

Foker,  Harry.  A  character  in  Thack- 
eray's (1811-1863)  novel  of  "  Pen- 
dennis." 

Formosa.  See  Psalmanazar, 
Gkorge. 

Forty  Footsteps,  Field  of.  See 
FiEi.D  OF  Forty  Footsteps. 

Foul-weather  Jack.  An  appellation 
given  to  Sir  John  Norris,  the  Eng- 
lish admiral  (died  1749).  See  also 
FouL-WEATHEK  Jack  in  body  of 
book. 


Franklin  of  Theology-  An  appella- 
tion given  to  Andrew  Fuller,  the 
eminent  English  Baptist  minister 
(1754-1815). 

Free  Trade,  Apostle  of.  See  Apos- 
tle OF  Free  Trade. 

French  Horace.  Jean  Salmon,  sur- 
named  Maigret  or  Macrinus  (1490- 
1557),  author  of  Latin  odes. 

French  Tibullus.  A  surname  given 
to  Philippe  Desportes  (1545  or  6- 
1606).  See  also  French  Tibullus 
in  body  of  book. 

French  Titian.  A  name  given  to 
Jacques  Blanchard,  painter  (1600- 
1638). 

Friend  of  Man.  A  designation  given 
to  William  Wilberforce.  See  Friend 
OF  Man  in  body  of  book. 

5^^  "  The  title  Friend  of  Man  was 
assigned  at  a  public  meeting  by  Sir 
James  Mackintosh  to  William  Wilber- 
force." London  Spectator. 

Friend  of  the  People.  [Fr.  DAmi 
du  Peuple.]  A  name  applied  to  Je;  n 
Paul  Marat  (1744-1793),  the  notorious 
Jacobin  demagogue,  from  a  journal 
with  this  title  which  he  published 
during  the  French  revolution. 

Fritz,  Unser.     See  Unser  Fritz. 


G. 


Garth,  Caleb.    See  Garth,  Mary. 

Garth,  Mary.  A  character  (the 
daughter  of  Caleb  Garth)  in  "  Mid- 
dleraarch,"  a  novel  by  George  Eliot 
(1820V-1880). 

Gautier,  Marguerite.  See  Camille. 

Gessler,  Hat  of.  See  Hat  of  Gess- 
ler. 

Glegg,  Mrs.  A  character  in  Georjre 
Eliot's  (1820V-1880)  novel  of  "The 
Mill  on  the  Floss." 


One  of  the  preeminent  crea- 
tions of  humor."  The  Nation. 

Glorious  John.  A  complimentary 
designation  bestowed  upon  tiie  Eng- 
lish poet  Dryden  (1631-1701). 


Glorious  Revolution.  A  name  given 
to  the  change  in  the  government 
which  took  place  in  England  in 
1688-9  by  the  abdication  of  James 
the  Second  and  the  accession  of 
William  the  Third. 

Golden  Horn.  A  famous  inlet  of  the 
Bosphorus  at  the  city  of  Constantino- 
ple in  Turkey,  the  city  lying  be- 
tween the  Golden  Horn  on  the  north 
and  the  Sea  of  Marmora  and  the 
Bosphorus  on  the  south  and  east. 
"The  curve  which  it  describes  might 
be  compared  to  the  horn  of  a  stag, 
or,  as  it  should  seem  with  more  pro- 
priety, to  that  of  an  ox." 

d^p^  "  The  harbor  of  Constantinople, 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Hules  to  which  the  aumbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


GOL 


412 


GUL 


which  may  be  considered  as  an  arm  of 
th«  Boephorus,  obtained,  in  a  very  re- 
mote period,  the  deuouiiuation  of  the 
Uo'den  Horn.''''  (jibhon. 

Gloidea-mouthed  Doctor.  An  ap- 
pellation given  to  Chrysostom  [fr.  Gr. 
Xpv<ro<7To/iAos,  "  goUleii-niouthi'il  "], 
the  (Jreek  Father  of  the  Church  (abt. 
350-407). 

Oood  Parliament.  This  parliament 
(1376)  acquired  this  name  from  the 
reformatory  and  beneficent  character 
of  its  work  and  the  measures  it 
passed. 

The  tendency  of  things  was  shown  by 
such  facts  as  the  remonstrance  of  the 
Commons  with  the  crown  on  the  appoint- 
ment of  ecclesiastics  to  all  the  great 
offices ;  the  allegations  made  by  the  irood 
Parliament  as  to  the  amount  of  money 
drawn  by  Rome  from  the  kingdom. 

Draper. 

Oordian  Knot.  Gordius,  a  Phry- 
gian peasant,  is  said  to  have  ascend- 
ed the  throne  in  consequence  of 
having  been  the  first  to  enter  the 
capital  in  compliance  with  an  oracu- 
lar prediction.  Midas  his  son  conse- 
crated in  the  temjile  of  Jupiter  the 
cart  upon  which  he  had  been  mount- 
ed. The  knot  which  was  attached 
to  the  beam  of  the  cart  was  so  ingen- 
iously made  that  it  was  impossible 
to  lind  either  of  the  two  ends.  The 
oracles  promised  the  dominion  of  the 
world  to  him  who  should  untie  it. 
Great  numbers  attempted  it  in  vain. 
At  last  Alexander  having  acquired 
possession  of  the  city  resolved  to 
fulfill  the  oracle,  and  at  the  same 
time  impress  the  imagination  of  his 
soldiers.  Drawing  his  sword,  he  cut 
the  knot.  Hence  to  "cut  the  Gor- 
dian  knot"  is  to  overcome  obstacles 
hy  taking  summary'  action. 

The  principal  condition  of  the  treaty 
of  May  30,  1814,  was  the  abdication  of 
Nipoleon  and  the  fall  of  his  dynasty. 
His  resumption  of  power  was  the  great- 
est infraction  of  this  treaty.  Nothing 
could  be  more  contradictory  than  the 
adhesion  of  Napoleon,  under  the  title  of 
emperor,  to  this  treaty  of  which  the 
principal  condition  was  his  exclusion 
from  the  throne.  All  the  artifices  of 
r'^asoning  could  not  untie  this  Gordian 
Knot  which  the  sword  only  could  cut. 

Villemnin. 
Iracchi,     Mother    of    the.       See 
Mother  of  the  Gkacchi. 


Grace,   Pilgrimage  o£      See  Piir 

GKIMAGE   OF   GrACE. 

Grande  Mademoiselle.  A  name 
commonly  given  to  Anne  Marie 
Louise  d' Orleans,  Duchesse  de 
Montpensier  (1027-1693). 

^^^  "  One  so  famous  in  history  that 
her  proper  name  never  appears  in  it." 
"  Our  heroine  lived  in  the  most  gossiping 
of  all  ages,  herself  its  greatest  gossip  ; 
yet  her  own  name,  patronymic  or  bap- 
tismal, never  was  talked  about.  It  was 
not  that  she  sank  that  name  beneath 
high-sounding  titles  ;  she  only  elevated 
the  most  commonplace  of  all  titles  till 
she  monopolized  it,  and  it  monopolized 
her.  Anne  Marie  Louise  d'Orleana, 
Souveraine  de  Dombes,  Princesse  Dau- 
phiue  d'Auvergne,  Duchesse  de  Mont- 
pensier, is  forgotten,  or  rather  was 
never  remembered  ;  but  the  great  name 
of  Mademoiselle,  La  Grande  Mademoi- 
selle, gleams  like  a  golden  thread  shot 
through  and  through  that  gorgeous  tap- 
estry of  crimson  and  purple  which  re- 
cords for  us  the  age  of  Louis  Quatorze."' 
T.  W.  Higginson. 

Grand  Old  Man.  A  name  popularly 
applied  to  the  English  statesman 
Gladstone. 

Great   American    Traveler.     The 

self-bestowed  title  by  which  the  late 
Daniel  Pratt,  noted  for  his  eccentric- 
ities of  s[)eech,  and  his  aspirations 
toward  "  the  presidential  chair," 
was  popularly  known. 

Great  Cardinal.  An  appellation  giv- 
en to  Pedro  Gonzalez  de  Mendoza, 
the  Spanish  statesman  and  prelate 
(1428-1495). 

Green,  Verdant.  The  hero  of  the 
"Adventures  of  Mr.  Verdant  Green," 
bv  Edward  Bradley,  Cuthhert  Bede 
(b.  1827). 

Qriin,  Hans  (hSnss  griin).  Hans 
Baldung,  the  German  painter  and 
engraver  (1470-1545?),  is  sometimes 
so  called. 

Gulf  of  Curtius.  About  the  year  b. 
c.  362  an  earthquake  opened  a  gulf 
in  the  place  of  the  Forum,  at  Rome. 
The  oracles  declared  it  would  only 
close  when  the  strength  of  the  city 
had  been  thrown  into  it.  Curtius, 
a  young  Roman,  judging  that  the 
strength  of  the  city  lay  in  its  arms 


•mST'  For  the  "Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


GUM 


413 


HAT 


and  its  valor,  devoted  himself  to  the 
Gods  and  threw  himself  on  horse- 
back and  splendidly  armed  into  the 
depths  of  the  fjulf,  and  the  people 
covered  him  with  expiatory  offerings 
which  soon  filled  the  gulf. 

Since  you  quote  the  Romans,  I  de- 
clare to  you  that  I  will  never  be  Curtius, 
and  that  I  will  not  throw  myself  into 
the  gulf.  Lamartine. 

Gummidge,  Mrs.  A  "  lone,  lorn 
creetur"  in  "David  Coppertield,"  a 
novel  by  Dickens  (1812-1870). 

Gwendolen.  See  Hakleth  Gwen- 
dolen. 

Gy'ges's  Bing.  Gyges  was  a  young 
shepherd  of  Lydia.  One  day  having 
seen  the  earth  open,  he  descended 
into  the  fissure,   and  saw,   among 


other  wonders,  a  brazen  horse,  which 
had  doors  in  its  sides.  Having 
opened  these  he  saw  a  corpse  of  su- 
perhuman size,  which  had  on  one 
linger  a  ring  of  gold.  This  ring, 
when  one  had  turned  the  bezel  on 
the  inside,  had  the  power  of  making 
the  wearer  invisible.  Gyges  pos- 
sessed himself  of  this  precious  talis- 
man and  returned  to  the  court  of 
King  Candaules  where  his  ring  be- 
came the  source  of  a  brilliant  for- 
tune. 

The  robbers  took  from  me  my  hun- 
dred crowns.  I  hoped  to  save  the  soli- 
taire which  I  wore  on  my  finger,  and  I 
had  turned  it  on  the  inside.  Unfortu- 
nately it  had  not  the  virtue  of  the  ring 
(if  Oyges.  One  of  them  saw  my  poor  sol- 
itaire and  took  it  from  me. 

Alex.  Dumas.    Trans. 


H. 


Halifax,  John.  The  hero  of  a  novel 
of  the  same  name  by  Dinah  Maria 
Craik,  formerly  Miss  Muloch  (b. 
1826). 

Eammer  of  the  Scottish  Nation. 
One  of  the  titles  given  to  Edward  I. 
(1272-1307),  the  "first  real  English 
king,"  called  also  "  Longshanks  " 
and  the  "English  Justinian."  His 
motto,  which,  as  well  as  the  title, 
"Hammer  of  the  Scottish  Nation," 
may  be  seen  on  his  tomb,  was 
"Pactum  serva."  Edwardus  lon- 
ffus  Scotoi'uin  Malleus  hie  est.  See 
English  Justinian  in  body  of  book. 

Handy  Andy.  The  hero  of  an  Irish 
tale  of  the  same  name  bv  Samuel 
Lover  (1797-1868). 

Hannibal,  Oath  of.  See  Oath  of 
Hannibal. 

Har°pha  of  Oath.  A  character, 
original  with  Milton,  in  his  dramatic 
porni  of  "  Sanisfin  Agonisfes."  Ha- 
rapha  scoffs  at  Samson  in  his  chains, 
but  is  afraid  of  his  strength  and 
keeps  at  a  safe  distance. 


Look  now  for  no  enchanting  voice,  nor 

fear 
The  bait  of  honied  words  ;   a  rougher 

tongue 
Draws  hitherward,  I  know  him  by  his 

stride. 
The  giant  Harapha  of  Gath,  his  look 
Haughty  as  is  his  pile   high-built  and 

proud.  Milton. 

Harland,  Marion.  The  pseudonym 
adopted  by  Mary  V.  Terhune,  nee 
Hawes,  a  popular  wTiter  of  fiction. 

Harleth,  Gwendolen.  The  heroine 
of  George  Eliot's  (1820?-1880)  novel 
of  "Daniel  Deronda." 

Harmon,  John.  A  character  in  Dick- 
ens's (1812-1870)  novel  of  "  Our 
Mutual  Friend,"  who  also  passes 
under  the  names  of  Julius  Hand- 
ford  and  John  Kokesmith. 

Hat  of  Gessler.  Herman  Gessler,  a 
tyrannical  magistrate  of  the  Swiss 
Cantons  in  the  reign  of  Albert  I., 
ordered  a  hat  to  be  set  up  in  the 
public  place  of  Altorf,  and  required 
all  the  Swiss  to  salute  it  in  passing. 
A  countryman,  AVilliam  Tell,  re- 
fused to  submit  to  this  humiliation. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  •ertain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiy-jcxxiL 


HAT 


414 


HYD 


The  governor  arrested  him,  and  con- 
demned him  to  pierce  witli  an  arrow 
an  apple  placed  upon  the  head  of 
his  son.  Tin's  he  did,  and  some 
days  after  he  pierced  the  tyrant 
himself,  and  the  episode  of  the  Hat 
of  Gessler  terminated  in  the  enfran- 
chisement of  four  cantons. 

Trulj',  General  Cavaiguac  is  very  gen- 
erous not  to  make  us  adore  his  sword  or 
his  caftan  at  the  end  of  a  rod,  as  the  fe- 
rocious Gessler  caused  his  hat  to  be  wor- 
shiped. Einile  de  Girardin. 

Hatto,  Bishop.  According  to  the 
legend,  the  cruel  Archbishop  Hatto 
of  Mayetice,  after  burning  a  barnful 
of  famished  poor  in  order  to  be  free 
from  their  entreaties  for  food  from 

.  his  well-stored  granaries,  was  him- 
self devoured  by  an  army  of  rats  in 
.  his  tower  at  Bingen  on  the  Rhine  to 
which  he  had  fled.  There  are  vari- 
ous versions  of  the  story.  It  is  the 
subject  of  a  familiar  ballad  by 
Southey. 

They  almost  devour  me  with  kisses ; 

Their  arms  about  me  intwine, 
Till  I  think  of  tiie  Bishop  of  Bingen 

In  his  Mouse- Tower  on  the  Rhin^. 

Longfellow. 

Hawthorn,  Jerry.  See  Tom  and 
Jekky. 

H.  B.  The  signature  adopted  by  Mr. 
Doyle,  father  of  Richard  Doyle,  the 
artist,  tor  a  celebrated  series  of  Eng- 
lish political  caricatures. 

"  There,  where  the  gas-light  streams  on 
Crockford's  door. 
Bluff  Henry  chuckled  at  the  jests  of 

More. 
There,  where  you  gaze  upon  the  last 

//.  B., 
Swift  paused,  and  muttered,  '  Shall  I 
have  that  See  ?' " 

Bulu-er-Lytton. 

Head  of  the  "World.  An  appella- 
tion of  Rome  in  her  days  of  domin- 
ion and  power,  when  she  was  "mis- 
tress of  the  world."  The  name  is 
still  used  bv  Roman  Catholics  in  a 


feligious  sense,  in  reference  to  th« 
modern  city  of  Rome. 

513/^  '*  Thus  Rome  was  not,  properly 
speaking,  either  a  republic  or  u  uKjnar- 
chy,  but  the  head  of  a  body  which  was 
made  up  of  all  the  peoples  of  the 
world."  Montesquieu.      Trans. 

Heathen  Chinee.  See  Truthful 
James. 

Heaven-born  Minister.  A  name 
applied  to  the  great  statesman  Will- 
iam Pitt  (17U8-1778)  in  allusion  to 
the  early  age  of  his  entering  upon 
public  service. 

H.  H.  The  initials  by  which  Helen 
M.  Jackson,  formerlv  Mrs.  Hunt 
(1831-1885),  the  well-known  writer, 
is  popularly  known. 

History,  Master  of.  See  Master 
OF  History. 

Holt,    Felix.      The   hero  of  George 

Eliot's    (1820?-1880)    novel   of    the 

same  name. 
Holy  Office.     Another  name  for  the 

ecclesiastical     tribunal     commonly 

called  the  Inquisition. 

Upon  the  16th  February,  1563,  a  sen- 
tence of  the  Holy  Office  condemned  all 
the  inhabitants  of  the  Netherlands  to 
death  as  heretics.  From  tiiis  universal 
doom  only  a  few  persons,  especially 
named,  were  excepted.  Motley. 

House  of  Socrates.  According  to 
tradition  Socrates  built  a  house,  and 
when  told  that  it  was  too  small  he 
replied,  "May  it  please  the  Gods, 
that  it  shall  be  full  of  true  friends." 

This  delightful  abode  of  Mile.  Rachel 
was  reconstruf'ted  by  M.  Duval,  and  re 
suited  in  a  little  marvel  of  richness  and 
grace.  Without  being  absolutely  the 
house  of  Socrates  it  was  of  very  small 
size.  Four  windows  in  front  and  no 
more.  F.  Momand. 

His  country  house  resembled  some- 
what the  honse  of  Socrates,  but  it  was  a 
house,  and  for  a  poet  a  luxury  quite  Asi- 
atic and  worthy  of  Sardanapalus. 

T.  Gautier. 

Hyde,  Mr.     See  Dr.  Jekyll. 


0^  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"   with  the  accompanying  Explanation^ 


IBY 


415 


JUL 


I. 


Ib'j^'-cus,  Cranes  of.  Ibycus,  a  lyric 
poet  of  Greece,  was  assassinated  by 
robbers,  and  before  dyinj;  he  called 
upon  a  flock  of  cranes  which  passed 
over  his  head  to  testify  against  his 
murderers.  Some  days  after,  the 
brigands  assisting  at  Corinth  in  some 
public  games,  one  of  them  cried  out 
seeing  a  Hock  of  cranes  pass  by, 
"  See !  there  are  the  Cranes  of  Iby- 
cus." This  exclamation  gave  rise 
to  suspicions,  and  led  to  the  discov- 
ery and  conviction  of  the  assassins. 
Schiller  has  made  this  incident  the 
subject  of  a  poem. 

The  criminal  is  never  sure  of  impunity, 
and  can  never  enjoy  in  peace  the  fruits 
of  a  bad  action.  Even  if  he  can  stifle  the 
cry  of  remorse  there  will  always  remain 
the  fear  of  unforeseen  and  fortuitous 
revelations,  the  Cranes  of  Ibycus. 

Reinie  des  Deuz  Mondes. 

ImoKine,  The  Fair.  See  Alonzo 
THE  Brave. 


Infant  of  Liibeck.  Christian  Hein- 
rich  Heinecken  (1721-1725),  note- 
worthy as  a  most  remarkable  case 
of  mental  precocity. 

Ingham,  Col.  Frederic.     A  nom  de 

plume  adopted  by  Edward  Everett 
Hale,  author  of  the  "  Ingham  Pa- 
pers." 

Inspired  Tinker.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  John  Bunyan  (1628- 
1688)  from  the  occupation  to  which 
he  was  bred. 

Iskan'der's  Mirror.  By  looking  on 
Iskander's  (*.  e.,  Alexander's)  mirror 
the  future  was  revealed,  unknown 
climes  brought  to  view,  andAvhatever 
its  owner  wished  made  visible. 

Isle  of  Venus.  An  island  described 
as  a  paradise  in  the  heroic  poem  of 
"The  Lusiad"  by  Camoens  (1524?- 
1579). 


J. 


Jaokwood,  Neighbor.  A  character 
in  a  well-known  story  of  the  same 
name  by  J.  T.  Trowbridge.  The 
story  has  been  dramatized. 

Jean  Valjean.     See  Valjean,  Jean. 

Jekyll,  Doctor.  See  Doctor 
Jekyll. 

Jerry.     See  Tom  and  Jerry. 

Jewels  of  Cornelia.  Cornelia, 
Mather  of  the  Gracchi,  was  the 
daughter  of  Scipio  Africanus,  and 
wife  of  Sempronius  Gracchus,  Avho 
distinguished  himself  in  the  wars  of 
Spain.  Left  a  widow  with  twelve 
children,  she  devoted  herself  entirely 
to  their  education,  and  refused,  it  is 
said,  the  hand  of  Ptolemy,  king  of 
Egypt.  A  lady  of  Campania  one 
day  displaying  her  jewels  and  pre- 
cious ornaments  before  Cornelia,  and 
asking  to  see  hers,  Cornelia  brought 


forward  her  children  saying,  '*  These 
are  my  jewels  and  ornaments." 

Better  than  Cornelia  this  august  mother 
[the  Church  of  Rome]  can  say,  pointing 
to  her  children,  "  Behold  my  jewels  and 
my  treasures."  Louis  VeuilloU 

See  Mother  of  the  Gracchi. 

Jim  Crow.     See  Crow,  Jim. 

Jockeymo.  Servant  of  Riccabocca 
in  Bulwer's   "My  Novel." 

Julie.  The  heroine  of  the  celebrated 
novel  of  the  same  name  ("Julie,  ou 
la  Nonvelle  H^loise")  by  Jean 
Jacques  Rousseau  (1712-1778),  writ- 
ten while  under  the  influence  of  a 
violent  attachment  for  Madame 
d'Houdetot. 

But  his  was  not  the  love  of  living  dame, 
Nor  of  the  dead    who    rise    upon    our 

dreams. 
But  of  ideal  beauty,  which  became 
In  him  existence,  and  o'ertlowing  teems 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


LAD 


416 


LGC 


Along  his    burning    page,   distempered 

though  it  seems. 
Tills  breathed  itself  to  life  in  Julie,  this 
Invested  her  with  all  that  's  wild  and 

Bweet.  Byron. 


Jupiter  of  the  Press.  A  name  some- 
tiines  f^iveii  lo  tlie  "  London  Times." 
See  also  THU^DEKEK  in  body  of 
book. 


L. 


Lady  of  England.    See  A.  L.  O.  E. 
Laird  of  Cockpen.     See  Cockpen, 

Laiku  of. 
Lake   of  Pain.     [Fr.    Lac  de  V An- 

goisse.'\     A   lake  reputed  to  have,  in 

ancient  times,  separated  France  from 

Bretagne. 

By  the  Lake  of  Pain  she  passed ; 
There  she  saw  a  ghastly  baud  ; 

White  their  garments,  and  the  blast 
Drove  their  shadowy  barks  to  laud. 

Anon.    Tr.  L.  S.  CosteUo. 

Lammeter,  Nancy.  A  character  in 
George  Eliot's  (1820V-188J)  n..\-.  1 
of  "  Silas  Marner." 

Lantern  o*"  Diogenes,  The.  Dio- 
genes, surnamed  the  Cynic,  hav- 
ing vainly  exerted  his  eloquence  to 
arouse  the  Athenians  from  the  idle- 
ness and  corruption  into  which  they 
had  fallen,  adopted  this  method  of 
rebuking  them.  One  day  he  was 
met  at  noon  in  the  streets  of  Athens, 
holding  in  his  hand  a  lighted  lan- 
tern, and  being  asked  the  reason  of 
this  strange  proceeding,  he  replied, 
"  I  am  looking  for  a  man." 

An  estate  !  an  estate  !  who  has  re^iUy  an 
estate  at  this  moment  in  France  ?  Yr»u 
might  put  a  gas-burner  into  the  Lantern 
of  Diogenes,  and  you  could  not  find  this 
white  blackbird.  Le  Figaro. 

Laurie,  Annie.    The   heroine  of  an 

old  song  of  uncertain  authorship. 
Lee,   Annabel.     The   subject  of  the 
poem  of  the  same  name  bv  Edgar  A. 
Poe  (1811-1849). 

I^p^  "  The  parf-nt  of  Annab(  1  Lee  was 
Mother  Goose,  who  in  this  instance  did 
not  drop  a  golden  egg.'" 

H.  H.  Stoddnrrl. 

Leigh,  Sir  Amyas.  The  hero  of 
"Westward  Ho!  or  the  Voyages 
and  Adventures  of  Sir  Amyas  Leigh 
in  the  reign  of  Queen   Elizabeth,"   a 


novel  bv  the  Rev.  Charles  Kingsley 
(1819-1875). 
Level  cf  Archimedes.  The  most 
celebrated  mathematician  of  antiq- 
uity, Archimedes,  a  native  of  Syra- 
cuse in  Sicih',  having  studied  pro- 
foundly the  theory  of  the  power  of 
the  lever,  exclaimed,  "Onh'give  me 
a  point  of  support,  and  I  will  move 
the  earth." 

Peter  the  Hermit,  Calvin,  and  Robes- 
pierre, three  hundred  years  apart,  were, 
politically  speaking,  levers  of  Archim- 
edes. At  each  epoch  it  was  a  thought 
which  found  its  point  of  support  in  the 
interests  and  desires  of  men.  Balzac. 

Liberator  of  Italy.  A  designation 
bestowed  upon  Garibaldi  (1807- 
1882),  the  celebrated  Italian  patriot 
and  general,  in  allusion  to  his  career 
in  that  country. 

Little  Dorrit.    See  Dorrit,  Little. 

Little  Em'ly.     See  Em'ly,  Little. 

i  ittle  Preacher.  A  name  given  to 
Samuel  Desmarets,  a  French  Protes- 
tant divine  (1599-1663). 

Little  Venice.  A  name  given  to 
Amiens  (the  lower  town)  by  Louis 
XI  ,  because  this  place  of  narrow 
streets  is  so  intersected  throughout 
by  the  ramifications  of  the  Somme 
and  the  many  bridges  over  them. 

Livingstone,  Guy.  The  hero  of  a 
novel  of  the  same  name  bv  G.  A. 
Lawrence  (1827-1876). 

Locke,  Alton.  The  hero  of  a  novel 
of  the  same  name  entitled  "An  Au- 
tohiography,"  and  treating  social  and 
political  questions,  bv  Charles  Kings- 
ley  (1819  1875),  published  in  1850, 
and  in  which  the  author  showed  his 
interest  in  the  trials  and  sufYerings 
of  the  working  classes  in  large  towns. 
See  Chartist  ('lkrgyman. 


For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"    with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


LOG 


417 


MAR 


liOgic,  Bob.  A  character  in  Pierce 
Egaa's  '•  Life  in  Loudon." 

XiOngshanks.  See  English  Justin- 
ian (in  body  of  l)ook)  and  Hammkk 
OF  THE  Scottish  Nation. 

Lothair.  The  hero  of  a  novel  of  the 
same  name  by  Benjamin  Disraeli 
(1805-1881). 

Lothrop,  Amy.  A  pseudonym  used 
by  Anna  B.  Warner  (sister  to 
Susan  Warner)  novelist  and  religious 
writer. 

Liibeck,  Infant  of.    See  Infant  of 

LUBECK. 

Ijucile.  The  heroine  of  a  novel  in 
verse  of  the  same  name  by  Robert, 


Lord     Lyttoa    Owtn    Meredith  (b. 
1831). 

Luria.  One  of  the  noblest  of  the 
characters  of  Robert  Browning 
(b.  1812),  the  hero  of  his  poem  of  the 
same  name. 

Lydgate.  A  character  in  George 
Eliot's  (1820V-1880)  novel  of  "Mid- 
dlemarch." 

Lyon,  Ssther.  The  daughter  of  the 
Dissenting  clergyman  Rufus  Lyon 
in  "Felix  Holt,"'  a  novel  bv  George 
Eliot  (1820  V-1880).  She  finally  be- 
comes the  wife  of  Felix  Holt,  the 
hero  of  the  story. 

JLyon,  Bufus.    See  Lyon,  Estheb. 


M. 


Mademoiselle.     See    Grand    Ma- 

DEMOISELLK. 

Mad  Socrates.  An  epithet  bestowed 
by  Plato  upon  Diogenes  the  Cynic 
(b.  414:  B.  c.)  on  account  of  the 
roughness  of  his  manners  and  his  ex- 
tensive knowledge  of  human  nature 
and  zealous  interest  in  virtue. 

Mseonian  Swan.  A  name  sometimes 
applied  to  Homer,  on  the  supposition 
that  he  was  born  in  Maionia,  a  dis- 
trict of  eastern  Lydia,  in  Asia  Minor, 
and  on  account  of  the  harmony  of 
his  verse. 

The  bold  Mceoninn  made  me  dare  to  steep 

Jove's  dreadful  temples  m  the  dew  of 

sleep.  Waller. 

Mahmut.    See  Turkish  Spy. 

Malleus  Arianorum.      THammer  of 

the  Arians.]     A  name  applied  to  St. 

Hilary,   bishop  of  Poictiers  (350-367 

A.  v)' 

Maltravers,  Ernest.  The  hero  of  a 
novel  of  the  same  name  by  Bulwer 
(1805-1873). 

Mantle  of  Antisthenes.  Antisthe- 
nes,  a  Grecian  philosopher,  f(»under 
of  the  school  of  Cynics,  who  lived  at 
Athens  about  B.  c.  424,  was  a  disci- 
ple of  Socrates,  whose  moral  philoso- 
phy he  developed  to  the  extreme  of 


despising  wealth,  greatness,  and 
pleasure.  This  contempt  of  exter- 
nal things  was  not  wholly  free  from 
affectation,  and  gave  rise  to  the  apos- 
trophe of  Socrates,  "  O  Antisthenes, 
I  perceive  thy  pride  through  the 
holes  in  thy  cloak."  The  most 
famous  of  the  disciples  of  Antis- 
thenes was  Diogene.^,  to  whom  these 
words  of  Socrates  are  sometimes  er- 
roneoush''  applied. 

We  recall  those  letters  and  prefaces  in 
which  an  immeasurable  pride  struts  un- 
der the  mask  of  a  feigned  humility.  A 
sad  comedy  which  amuses  no  one,  and 
which  is  yet  played  to-day  through  all 
the  roimdsof  literature  and  arts.  O  An- 
tisthenes !  it  is  always  the  pride  which 
pierces  through  the  holes  of  thy  mantle. 
Edmond  Tezier. 

Man  without  a  Country.  The  sub- 
ject of  a  stor}'^  of  the  same  title  by 
Edward  Everett  Hale. 

Mark  Twain.  The  pseudonym  of 
Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens  (b.  1835) 
famous  for  his  humorous  works. 
The  nom  de  plume  of  Mark  Twain, 
derived  from  an  expression  used  in 
sounding  the  lead  on  the  Mississippi, 
is  said  by  Mr.  Clemens  to  have  been 
at  first  used  by  a  certain  Captain  Sel- 
lars,  as  a  signature  to  paragraphs 
contributed  bv  him  to  the  "  New  Gr- 


and for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xir-xxxiL 


MAR 


418 


MOR 


leans  Picaj'une."  After  his  death  it 
was  adopted  by  Mr  Clemens,  "with- 
out asking  permission  of  the  proprie- 
tor's remains." 

i!g|r'"At  the  time  that  the  telegraph 
brought  the  news  of  his  death,  I  was  on 
the  Pacific  coast.  I  wa.-*  a  fresh,  new 
journali.>^t,  and  needed  a  nom  iJe  gwrre  ; 
BO  I  coiitiscatod  the  ancient  mariner's 
discarded  one,  and  have  done  my  best  to 
make  it  remain  what  it  wa.s  in  his  hands 
—  a  sign  and  symbol  and  warrant  that 
whatever  is  found  in  its  company  may 
be  g.imbled  on  as  benig  the  petrified 
truth  ;  how  I  have  succeeded  it  would 
not  be  modest  in  me  to  say." 

S.  L.  Clemens. 

Marner,  Silas.  The  subject  of  the 
well-known  novel  of  the  same  name 
by  George  Eliot  (18-20y-188U). 

Master  of  Contradiction.  [Lat- 
MiKjister  Co/'tradictionum.]  A  sur- 
nan)e  given,  from  his  skill  in  dialec- 
tics to  the  Dutch  theologian  and  Re- 
former John  Wessel  (abt.  1420- 
USU). 

Master  of  History.  [M agister  in 
Jlisturiis.]  An  appellation  given  to 
Petrus  Comestor,  who  flourished  in 
the  latter  part  of  the  twelfth  century, 
and  wrote  a  history  of  the  Bible  un- 
der the  title  of  Historia  Scholastica. 

This  Peter  is  said  to  have  oeen  ^ur- 
named  Comestor  or  Manducatnr,  "  Pierre 
le  Mnngeur,''''  on  account  of  his  appetite 
for  books  ;  others  say,  his  gluttony. 

Ezra  Abbot. 

May,  Sophie.  The  pseudonym  of 
Rebecca  Sophie  Clarke,  the  well- 
known  author 

^^^W^  This  name  has  been  adopted  by 
several  other  writers 

Melema,  Tito.  A  handsome,  wily 
Greek,  a  unique  character  and  one 
of  the  author's  m'>st  original  crea- 
tions, in  George  Eliot's  novel  of 
'*Roni  la." 

m^^"  There  is  not  a  more  masterly 
piece  of  painting  in  English  romance 
than  this  figure  of  Tito." 

R.  H  Hutton. 

Melnotte,  Claude.  The  hero  of  Bul- 
wer's  popular  play  of  "The  Lady 
of  Lyons." 

Miishipman  Easy,  Mr.  The  hero 
of  H  nautical  talft  of  the  same  name 
l)\-   Kreilerick   Marryat    (1792-1848). 


Mildmay,  Frank.  The  hero  of  a 
sea-storv  of  the  same  name  by  Fred- 
erick Marrj-at  (1792-1848). 

Miller,  Daisy.  The  heroine  and  title 
of  a  novel  of  the  present  day  by 
Henry  James,  Jr.  (b.  184Ji). 

Mirror  of  Iskander.  See  Iskan- 
dek's  Mikkor. 

Mistress  of  the  Adriatic.     A  name 

sometimes  given,  from  its  character 
and  situation,  to  the  city  of  Venice. 

The  nations  of  the  Baltic  and  of  far- 
thest lud  now  exchanged  their  products 
on  a  more  extensive  scale  ana  with  a 
wider  sweep  across  the  earth  than  wlien 
the  Mistress  of  the  Adriatic  alone  held 
the  keys  of  Asiatic  commerce.        Motley. 

Mithridates,  Poisons  of.  See  Poi- 
sons OF   MiTHKlDATES. 

Mokanna,  or  Mocanna.  The  hero  of 
Moore's  (1779-1852)  poem  "The 
Veiled  Prophet  of  Khorassan,"  a 
Moslem  impostor  who  always  wore 
a  veil,  and  "pretended  to  be  the  em- 
bodiment of  the  living  spirit  of 
God." 

Mr.  Norton's  strictures  on  the  character 
of  Lord  Byron  .  .  .  were  reasonable  and 
true,  and  will  commend  themselves  to 
every  mind  of  pure  tast^^  and  high  prin- 
ciple that  is  not  dazzled  aiid  blinded  by 
the  intellectual  splendor  vvhicli^  like  the 
silver  veil  of  Mokanna,  may  hide  from 
his  votaries  the  deformity  beneath. 

Christian  Examiner. 

Monaldi.  The  hero  of  an  Italian  ro- 
mance of  the  same  name  bv  Wash- 
ington Allston  (1779-1843).  ' 

Monsieur  Tonson.  See  Tonson, 
Monsieur. 

Monte  Cristo,  Count  of.  The  name 
under  which  the  hero  ( Edmond 
Dantes)  passes  in  Alexandre  Du- 
mas's  (1841-1845)  romance  of  "The 
Count  of  Monte  Cristo." 

Mor'decai.  A  patriotic  Jewish  char- 
acter in  George  Eliot's  (1820  V-1880) 
novel  of  "  Daniel  Deronda."  Also 
the  name  of  a  character  in  Macklin's 
comedy  "Love  a-la-Mode." 

Morris,  Dinah.  The  heroine  of 
George  Eliot's  (1820V-1880)  novel  of 
"  Adam  Bede,"  the  original  of  which 
is  said  by  some  to  have  been  draMMi,  at 
It^ast  in  some  sliglit  particulars,  from 
Elizabeth  Evans, George  Eliot's  aunt. 


09°  For  the   "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"  with  the  accompanying  Explanations, 


MOT 


419 


NOG 


Mother  of  the  Qrac'chi.  Cornelia, 
the  noble  Konian  matron,  the  daugh- 
ter of  i*.  Scipio  Atricaiiiis,  and  tlie 
wife  of  T.  Senipruiiius  Gracchus,  is 
often  so  called  in  allu>iou  to  lier  two 

.     celebrated  sous    'I'iberius  and  Caius. 

See  JkWKLS  ok  Ct>KNKLlA. 

Muehlbach  (niiilbak)  J_.ouise.  The 
name  by  which  Clara  M.  Mundt, 
the  author  of  a  number  of  histori- 
cal novels,  is  popularly  known. 

MuKWump.  A  term  supposed  to  be 
of  Indian  ori^iu,  and  familiar  at  the 
present  time  from  its  recent  applica- 
tion in  the  United  States  to  a  body 
of  so-called  Independents  in  politics. 

([J^*^  "  In     Massachusetts    and     New 
Hampshire  the  word  Mugwump  was  for- 


merly used  to  denote  the  leader  of  a 
frai-as  or  i-crape.  '  He  was  the  Mugwuuip 
of  tlie  whole."  It  is  probablj.  the  Mu.— 
sachusetts  ludiau  word  l\lu;^(j  110711/1,  as 
iu  'i  Kings  ix.  5.  '  Kupijuudaunche- 
uiookaush,  woi  uiugquonijj.  Kuh  lehn 
Doo\sau,  howan  neuauie  wame .'  Kali 
iiuowan,  lieu  woi  tnui^cjuonrp.^  '  I  have 
a  message  to  thee,  0  captain,'  ■'  etc. 

BaUnnt. 

Tlie  Indian  word  as  understood  by  the 

people  was  used  to  denote  the  leader  of 

a  predatory  baud.  Hid. 

Murdstone,  Mr.  Edward.  David 
Coj)perfield's  step-father  in  Dickens's 
(1812-1870)  novel  of  the  latter  name. 
Ji^^  "Firmness,  I  may  observe,  was 
the  grand  quality  on  which  both  Mr.  and 
Miss  Murdstone  took  their  stand  ...  it 
was  another  name  for  tyranny,  and  for 
a  certain  gloomy,  arrogant,  devil's  hu- 
mor, that  was  in  them  both."    Dickens, 


N. 


Nasby,  Bev.  Petroleum   V.    The 

nom  de  plume  of  David  Koss  Locke 
(1833-1888),  fann)us  for  his  "  Nasby  " 
letters  and  other  publications,  writ- 
ten in  an  illiterate  dialect,  among 
which  may  be  mentioned,  "  Swinfjfiu' 
Round  the  Cirkle,"  "  Ekkoes  from 
Kentucky,"  "  Hannah  Jane."  His 
success  as  a  political  satirist  was  very 
great,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that  his 
letters  diiriii<?  the  late  war  exerted 
an  immense  influence  in  moulding? 
opinion  at  the  North.  According^  to 
Secretary  Boutwell  the  success  of 
the  Union  side  was  owing  to  "the 
army,  the  navy,  and  the  Nasby  let- 
ters." 


'"  Unquestionably  they  [the  Nasby 
letters]  were  among  the  influences  and 
agencies  by  which  disloyalty  in  all  its 
forms  was  exposed  and  public  opinion 
assured  upon  the  right  side.  It  is  im- 
possible to  measure  their  importance. 
Against  the  devices  of  slavery  and  its 
supporters,  each  letter  was  like  a  speech. 


or  one  of  those  songs  which  stir  the  peo- 
ple.'■  Charles  Sumner. 

"  Of  publications  during  the  war,  none 

had  such  charm  for  Abraham  Lincoln."' 

Charles  Sumner. 

Neighbor  Jackwood.  See  Jack- 
wood,  Nkighbok. 

Nergal.  Chief  of  the  privy  police  in 
the  infernal  court  of  Beelzebub,  ac- 
cording to  the  demonographers  of 
the  middle  ages.  See  [Vierus,  Pseu- 
domonarchia  Dcemunum. 

Nestor  of  America.  A  name  applied 
to  Benjamin  Franklin  (17(16-1790) 
by  the  National  Assembly  of  France. 

Ni'o-be  of  Nations.     An  allusion  to 

Rome. 

The  Niobe  of  Nations!  there  she  stands, 

Childless  and  crownless  iu  her  voiceless 

woe.  Byron, 

Noerecs,  Newman.  Ralph  Nicklehv's 
clerk  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel 
of  "Nicholas  Nickleby." 


and.  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  th2  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


OAT 


420 


PEG 


o. 


Oath  of  Hannibal.  Hannil^al  the 
Carthaijiiiian,  the  most  iiniilacable 
enemv  of  tlie  Komans,  wlnii  a  ciiild 
of  nine  years  knelt  in  the  temple  l)\" 
the  side  of  his  fatiier  Hamilcar,  and 
vowed  eternal  hatred  to  Home. 

M.  de  Mont.ilembert,  from  the  first 
day,  entered  the  lists  with  a  fixed  idea. 
In  fact  lie  liad  t  iken  xg  linst  the  Univer- 
sity the  Oitth  of  Ilmjiibal.    Sdinle-Beuve. 

Oldbuck.  Obadiah.  Tlie  title  ("  Ad- 
ventures of  Mr.  Ouadiah  Oidl)uck") 
under  wliich  was  published  an  En<:f- 
lish  reproduction  of  comic  sketches 
(oriijinaliv  entitled  "  M.  Vieiix- 
Bois  ")  by  Rudolph  Ti)i)ffer. 

Old  Soutb.  The  signature  to  a  series 
of  political  articles  from  the  pen  of 
Benjamin  Austin  (1752-1820)  printed 
in  the  "Independent  Chronicle''  of 
Boston.  He  also  wrote  under  the 
signature  of  Honestus. 

Old  Tecumseh.  An  appellation  be- 
stowed upon  William  Tecumseh 
Sherman,  the  .American  general. 

Old  Zach.  A  nickname  given  to 
Zachary  Taylor,  the  distinguished 
American  general  and  the  twelfth 
president  of  the  United  States.     See 


Rough    and    Rkady    in    body   of 

book. 

O'Malley,  Charles.  The  hero  of  a 
novel  of  the  same  name  bv  Charles 
James  Lever  (180J-1S72). 

O'More,  Rory.  Tiie  hero  of  a  novel 
of  the  same  name  by  Samuel  Lover 
(1797-18«)8).  Lover  also  wrote  a 
song  or  short  ballad  with  the  same 
title. 

One  Hoss  Shay.  Th  ■  subject  of  a 
humorous  ])oem  of  the  same  name 
by  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes. 

Ortis,  Jacopo.  The  imaginary  sub- 
ject of  a  political  romance  by  Ugo 
Foscolo  (1777-1827)  entitled  '•  Lettere 
de  .lacopo  Ortis"  (Letters  of  .lacopo 
Orti<),  which  had  great  poj)ularity 
and  is  interesting  from  its  allusions 
to  political  affairs  and  its  pictures  of 
Italian  society. 

Ouida  (obi-da).  The  pseudonym  of 
Mile.  Louis'e  de  la  Rame,  a  well- 
known  writer  of  fiction  of  the  pres- 
ent day.  This  nom  de  plume  is 
said  to  be  a  pet  name  derived  from 
Louise.  Others  however  look  upon 
it  as  taken  from  the  French  Oui-da. 


P. 


Parliament,  The  Bat.  See  Bat 
Paklia.ment. 

Parliament,  The  Good.     See  Good 

P.AKI.IAMENT. 

Pauline.  The  heroine  of  Bulwer's 
popular  play  of  "  Tiie  Lady  of 
Lyons."  Slie  becomes  the  wife  of 
Claude  Meliiotte. 

Peep  o'  Day  Boys.  A  lawless  Prot- 
estant ))arty  in  Irelnnd,  whose  out- 
raires  were  generally  perpetrated 
early  in  the  mornimr.  The  faction 
was  al.so  known  uniler  the  name  of 


"Protestant  boys"  and  "Wreck- 
ers." It  ultimately  formed  the  Or- 
ange Society.  Wilkie  has  made  use 
of  this  subject  in  his  picture,  "  The 
Peep  o'  Day  Boy's  Cal)in." 
Peg^otty,  Clara.  A  sister  of  Daniel 
Peggotty  who  joins  Mr.  Barkis  in 
becoming  "  willin  "  to  marrv,  in 
Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  of ""  Da- 
vid Coppertield  " 

Peggotty,  Daniel.  A  noble-hearted, 
sea-faring  man,  devoted  to  his  niece 
"little  Emily,"  in  Dickens's  (1812- 
1870)  novel  of  "David  Coppertield." 


For  the  "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  ProuuQciatiou,"  with  the  accompau^'lDg  Explauatiuns:. 


PEL 


421 


POP 


Pelham.  The  hero  of  a  novel  of  the 
same  name  l)y  Bulvver  (1805-187:}). 

People's  B'riend.  William  Gordon 
(18111-1849)  the  En^-lish  physioiaii 
and  pliilanthropist.  See  also  Kkiem) 

OF   THE    I'KOPLK. 

Per  ey  'i'lie  noni  de  plume  of  Ben: 
Peilev  I'oore,  the  American  journal- 
ist (1820-1887). 

Pilgriinage  of  Grace.  An  insurrec- 
tion which  broke  out  in  York,  Eng- 
land, ill  153G,  caused  hy  the  suppres- 
sion of  smaller  monasteries. 

Pippa.     Tlie  heroine  of  Robert  Brown- 

iiifXs  poem  of  ''  Pippa  Passes." 
Plough  I  f  Cincinnatus.  It  is  re- 
lated of  ("incinnatus.  a  lloman  patri- 
cian, that  havinjjc  tijiven  away  the 
greater  part  of  his  possessions  to  pay 
a  hue  for  his  son,  he  withdrew  to  a 
little  tield  beyond  the  Tiber,  which 
still  remained  to  him,  and  there  de- 
voted himself  to  the  cultivation  of  his 
farm.  lieiug  repeatedly  called  by 
the  Komaiis,  in  the  troubles  of  the 
republic,  to  the  head  of  the  army, 
he  met  the  deputies  who  bore  him  the 
message  of  the  Senate  while  at  work 
■with  his  plough,  and  having  each 
time  carried  through  the  war  he  un- 
dertook to  a  successful  termination, 
he  as  regularly  at  its  close  returned 
to  his  rural  avocations.  His  name 
has  thus  become  the  type  of  disinter- 
ested devotion  to  country. 

Thrice  the  saviour  of  his  country,  at  the 
East,  aud  at  tlie  North,  and  so  pro- 
nounced by  two  decrees,  Pichegru  saves 
Paris,  saves  the  Convention  which  he 
might  easily  have  overthrown,  and  re- 
turns to  his  poor  village,  where  he  hangs 
the  sword  of  Scipio  upon  the  Plough  of 
Cincinnntus.  Charles  Nodier. 

Plummer,  Bertha.  A  blind  girl, 
daughter  of  Caleb  Plnmmer,  in  Dick- 
ens's (1812  1870)  tale  of  "The 
Cricket  on  the  Hearth." 

Podsnap,  Mr.  John.  A  character  in 
Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel  of  "Our 
Mutual  Friend,"  tilled  with  his  own 
importance  and  satisfied  "above  all 
other  things  with  himself." 

Poet  of  the  Poor.  This  appellation 
has  been  given  to  George  Crabbe 
(1754-1832),  the  English  poet. 


Poen^am,  Hon.  Elijah.  An  amusing 
cliaiacter  in  Dickens's  (1812  1870) 
novel  of  "Martin  (,'hiizzlewit." 

Poisons  of  viittiridates.  History 
relates  that  Miihndatcs,  king  of  I'on- 
tus,  feeling  himself  to  be  constantly 
the  oljji'ct  of  intrigues  and  conspir- 
acies in  his  court,  devoted  himself 
early  in  lite  to  the  study  of  poi- 
sons, and  became  so  accustomecl  to 
taking  them  that  he  had  nothing 
to  fear  from  their  effect.  Once,  upon 
the  point  of  falling  into  the  power  of 
his  enemies,  he  took  a  very  subtle 
poison  which  he  always  carried  with 
him,  but  it  was  powerless  upon  a 
body  so  long  accustomed  to  antidotes. 
Tlii^  stor}"  is  related  in  the  tragedy 
of  Mithridates  by  Racine.  Emerson 
has  allusively  applied  the  name 
Mithridates  to  a  philosophical  poem. 

Calumny  has  exhausted  all  its  venom 
upon  my  person,  it  could  not  hurt  me,  it 
was  for  me  no  more  than  the  poisons  of 
Mithridates.  Dumas- 

Poly'crates's  Ring.  Polycrates,  ty- 
rant of  Samos,  enjoyed  for  more  than 
forty  years  unexampled  prosperity. 
Fearing  such  constant  success  would 
be  followed  by  some  signal  misfor- 
tune, he  resolved  to  forestall  fate  t)y 
a  voluntary  sacrifice.  From  the 
height  of  a  tower  he  threw  into  the 
sea  an  emerald  ring  of  exceeding 
beauty  and  value.  But  Fortune  re- 
fused to  accept  the  sacrifice.  A  fish 
swallowed  the  ring,  and  a  cook  who 
found  it  restored  it  to  the  tyrant. 
Misfortune  soon  overtook  him.  Da- 
rius, king  of  Persia,  took  Samos, 
conquered  Polycrates,  and  put  him 
to  death.  Schiller  has  made  this  in- 
cident the  subject  of  a  l)allad. 

The  excess  of  my  pro??perity  should 
have  caused  me  alarm.  But  even  had  I 
possessed  the  ring  nf  Polycrates,  I  should 
have  refrained  from  throwing  it  into  the 
sea,  on  account  of  a  horrible  sturgeon. 

Chateaubriand.     Trans. 

The  terror  of  cloudless  noon,  the  emer- 
ald of  Polycrates,  the  awe  of  prosperity, 
the  instinct  which  I'^ads  every  generous 
soul  to  impose  on  itself  tasks  of  a  noble 
asceticism  arc  the  tremblings  at  the  bal- 
ance of  justice  through  the  hf>art  and 
mind  of  man.  Emerson, 

Popilius,  Circle  of.     See  Circle  op 

POPILIUS. 


and  for  the  Bemarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


POY 


422 


RUP 


Poyser,  Mrs.  An  interesting  char- 
acter in  Georfre  Eliot's  (1820V-3880) 
novel  of  "A(lani  Becle." 

Prig,  Betsey.  A  nurse,  a  sort  of 
partner  of  Mrs.  Gamp  in  Dickens's 
(1812-1870)  novel  of  "Martin  Chuz- 
zlewit." 

Prince  of  Ancient  Comedy.     An 

appellation  sometimes  given  to  the 
Greek  author  Aristopiianes  (444?- 
38UV  B.  c). 

Prince  of  Fools.  An  appellation 
given  to  one  Augoulevant,  a  jester 


of  Henry  the  Fourth's  court  in 
France. 

Prince  of  Painters.  An  appellation 
sometimes  given  to  Apelles,  the 
Greek  artist  (fl.  abt.  330  b.  c). 

Prince  of  Showmen.  A  name  often 
applied  to  P.  T.  Bariium. 

Psalmana'zar,  George.  The  pseu- 
donym of  an  unknown  imf)ostor, 
author  of  the  fictitious  narrative  en- 
titled "An  Historical  and  Geograph- 
ical Description  of  Formosa,  an 
island  subject  to  the  Emperor  of 
Japan." 


Q. 


Queen  of  the  Adriatic.  A  name 
sometimes  given,  from  its  character 
and  situation,  to  the  city  of  Venice. 


At  len^h  we  arrived  at  Fusina,  and 

saw  the  Queen  of  the  Adriatic  with  her 
attendant  isles,  rising  like  an  exhalation 
from  the  unruffled  bosom  of  the  deep. 

Ticknor. 


R. 


Hab.  The  canine  hero  of  a  story  en- 
titled "  Rab  and  his  Friends,"  bv 
John  Brown  (b.  abt.  18:J0). 

Bed  Land.  A  term  applied  in  the 
language  of  the  Vehmic  or  free 
courts  to  Westphalia,  the  district  in 
which  was  seated  their  central  au- 
thority. 

Remus,  Uncle.    See  Uncle  Remus. 
Hhodian   Bully.     The    Colossus   of 
Rhodes. 

"  Yet  fain  would'st  thou  the  crouching 
world  bestride 
Just  like  the  Rhodian    Indly  o'er  the 
tide."  Peter  Pindar. 

Bing  of  Alexander.  See  Alexan- 
der's Ring. 

Bine:  of  Amasis.  See  Polycra- 
tes's  Ring. 

Bing  of  Gyges.    See  Gvges's  Ring. 

Bing  of  Polycrates.  See  Poly- 
CRATKs's  Ring. 

Bing.  Solomon's  Signet.  See  Sol- 
omon's Signet  Ring. 


Bomola.  A  noble  character  and  the 
heroine  of  George  Eliot's  historical 
novel  of  the  same  name. 

Run'nymede  A  nam  deplume  adopt- 
ed by  Benjamin  Disraeli  (1805- 
1881)  in  a  series  of  letters  on  politi- 
cal subjects  contributed  by  him  to 
the  "London  'limes,"  and  contain- 
ing "  fierce  and  unscrupulous  at- 
tacks upon  Lord  Melbourne's  gov- 
ernment." 

Eupert  of  Debate.  The  epithet  of 
"Rupert  of  debate,"  as  applied  to 
Lord  Derby  (1799-1869),  first  occurs 
in  the  following  lines  by  Bulwer: 

The  brilliant  chief,  irregularly  great, 
Frank,  haughty,  rash,  —  the  Rupert  of 

debate  ! 
Nor  gout  nor  toil  his  freshuess  can  de- 
stroy. 
And  time  still  leaves  all  Eton  in  the  boy  , 
First  in  the  class  and  keenest  in  the  ring. 
He  saps  like  Gladstone,  and  he  fights 

like  spring. 
Even  at  the  feast  his  pluck  pervades 

the  board. 
And    dauntless    gamecocks    symbolize 
their  lord. 


Ot^  for  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"    with  the  accompanying  Explanation* 


SAG 


423 


SOR 


s. 


Bage  of  Concord.  An  appellation 
often  given,  from  his  place  of  resi- 
dence, to  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson 
(1803-1882). 

A  leaf  which  I  gave  to  the  Sage  of 
Concord.  Leland's  Egypt. 

Others,  whose  proclivities  lie  in  that 
direction,  will,  on  the  contrary,  turn  to 
the  Sage  of  Concord,  and  wiU  diligently 
study  and  feed  upon  the  pabulum  which 
Emerson's  contributions  to  both  prose 
and  poetry  afford.    Annual  Cycloicedia. 

St.  Oswald,  Arm  of.     See  Aum  of 

St.  Oswald. 
Sappho   of  Holland.     See   Dutch 

SaI'PHO. 

Sawyer,  Bob.  A  medical  student, 
and  afterwards  a  practitioner,  in 
Dickens's  (181-2-1870)  novel  of  "  The 
Pickvvicl<:  Papers." 

Scrooge,  Ebenezer.  The  hero  of 
Dickens's  (1812-1870)  "  Christmas 
Carol,"  "a  tight-tisted  hand  at  the 
grindstone,  Scrooge! — a  squeezing, 
-wrenching,  grasping,  scraping, 
clutching,  covetous  old  sinner  ! 
Hard  and  sharp  as  flint,  from  which 
no  steel  had  ever  struck  out  gener- 
ous fire."  He  becomes  finally  a 
good  and  generous  man. 

Shandon,  Captain.  See  Captain 
Shan  DON. 

Shintcle,  S  Ion.  A  character  in  a 
farce  entitled  "The  People's  Law- 
yer" by  Dr.  J.  S.  Jones. 

Shirley.  The  heroine  of  a  novel  of 
tlie  same  name  bv  Charlotte  Bront^, 
Cun-er  Btll  (1816-1855). 

Short-Shanks.     See  Cukt-Hose. 

Sicilian  Anac'reon.  An  appellation 
given  to  Giovanni  Meii,  the  eminent 
Sicilian  poet  (1740-1815). 

Silent  City.  An  epithet  applied  to 
Venice,  and  which  so  far  as  the 
noise  of  carriages  and  the  din  of 
.streets  are  concerned  is  well  de- 
served, the  silence  in  these  respects 
being  quite  oppressive  to  one  who 
lias  just  come  from  a  noisy  commer- 
cial citv. 


m^^  "  A  ghost  upon  the  sands  of  the 
8eu,  .-^o  weak,  so  quiet,  so  bereft  of  all 
but  her  loveliness,  that  one  might  well 
dnubt  a<  he  watched  her  faint  reiiection 
in  the  mirage  of  the  Lagune  which  was 
the  city  and  which  the  shadow." 

Riiskin. 

Silver-tongued.  A  natne  applied  to 
Anthotiy  Hammond  (1G68-1738). 

1^^  "  The  epithet  '  silver-tongued  ' 
was  given,  not  only  to  Joshua  Sylvester, 
in  the  sixteenth,  and  to  polished  Bates, 
the  founder  of  the  '  dissenting  interest,' 
in  the  seventeenth,  but  to  Brtrton  Booth 
and  Spraiiger  Barry,  the  eminent  actors, 
in  two  parts  of  the  eighteenth  century." 
London  Athenrfum. 

Simple,  David.  The  hero  of  a  novel 
of  the  snme  name  by  Sarah  Fielding 

(1714-1768). 

Simple,  Feter.     The  hero  of  a  tale  of 

the  same  name  by  Frederick  Marryat 

(1792-1848). 
Smith,  Bobus.     A  nickname  given  to 

Robert  Smith.     Bobus  is  macaronic 

Latin  for  Bub. 

Then  there  is  the  second  Beef-steak 
Club  (founded  by  Rich  the  Harlequin) ; 
the  famous  Literary  Club  (orieinating 
with  Dr.  Johnson):  .  .  .  the  King  of 
Clubs  (Bobus  Smithes,  "himself  a  club," 
brother  of  Sydney),  and  the  high  duality 
club  entitled  NuUo  Secundus,  or  Second 
to  None  (which  a  metaphysical  wag  might 
translate  Worse  than  Nothing). 

Leigh  Hunt. 

Snow  King.  A  name  given  by  his 
enemies  to  Gustavus  Adolphus  of 
Sweden  (1594-1632). 

Socrates,  House  of.    See  House  of 

.*-  OCRATES. 

Solomon's  Signet  Ring.  A  touch  of 
this  talisman  of  incredible  virtues 
exorcised  all  evil  spirits,  commanded 
the  instant  presence  and  service  of 
the  Genii,  laid  every  secret  bare,  and 
gave  its  possessor  almost  unlimited 
powers  of  knowledge,  dominion,  and 
performance. 

Solon  Shingle.  See  Shi-ngi.e, 
Solon. 

Sorrel,  Hetty.     A  pretty  dairymaid. 


and  for  the  Remarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbers  aiter  certain  words  refer,  lee  pp.  xiv-xxxii 


SPA 


424 


TRA 


shallow,  vain,  and  fond  of  pleasure 
in  "  Adam  liede,"  a  novel  bv  George 
Eliot  (18-20  V  18»0). 
bpauish  Aadison.  A  name  some- 
times given  to  Feyjoo  or  Feijoo  y 
Montenegro  (1701-1764),  a  learned 
critic  and  moralist  of  Spain. 

Spanish  Bay'ard  (Fr.  pron,  bi'af'). 
A  name  applied,  on  account  of  liis 
loyalty  and  honor,  to  the  Spanish 
ofticer,  Don  Diego  tJarcia  de  Paredes 
(U(JG-1530). 

Steerforth,  James.  A  friend  of 
David  (,'opperlield's  in  Dickens's 
(1812-1870)  novel  of  the  latter  name, 
of  most  attractive  manners  and  ap- 
pearance, who  elopes  with  "little 
Emily." 

Stiggins,  The  Reverend  Mr.  A 
hvpocritical  minister  (known  as  The 
S/iepherd)  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870) 
"  Pickwick  Papers." 

Tartuffe  and  Joseph  Surface,  Stiggins 
aud  Chadband,  who  are  always  preach- 
ing fine  seiitiineuts,  and  are  no  more 
virtuous  than  hundreds  of  those  whom 
they  deuouiice  aud  cheat,  are  fair  objects 
of  mistrust  and  satire.  Thackeray. 

Suramerson,  Esther.  A  prominent 
character  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870) 
novel  of  "Bleak  House." 

Sun.  J<'hn  Rich,  manager  of  Covent 
Garden,  and  celebrated  for  his  ex- 
cellent performance  of  Harlequin. 

On  one  side  Folly  sits,  by  seme  called 

Fun, 
And  on  the  other  his  arch-patron  Sun. 

Churchill. 


Switzerland  of  America.  A  name 
sometimes  applied  to  the  mountain 
region  of  New  Hauip>hire. 

Sword  of  Dam'ocle§.  Damocles,  a 
courtier  of  Dionysius  the  Elder,  made 
himself  conspicuous  by  his  constant 
adulation  of  his  master.  The  tyrant 
resolved  to  acquaint  him  with  the 
pleasures  of  royally  in  a  way  which 
would  have  done  honor  to  an  oriental 
caliph.  He  invited  him  to  take  his 
place  for  one  day.  He  then  gave  or- 
ders that  Damocles  should  be  treated 
in  all  respects  like  a  king.  The  cour- 
tier took  liis  place  u])on  a  throne,  his 
forehead  crowned  wiih  a  diadem,  the 
most  exquisite  viands  covered  the 
table,  delicious  perfumes  surrounded 
liim,  sweet  music  charmed  his  ears, 
the  courtiers  flattered  him,  poets 
sang  his  praises.  Suddenly  lifting 
his  eyes,  he  perceived  over  his  head 
a  sword  supported  by  a  single  hair. 
Pale  with  terror  he  entreated  Dio- 
nysius to  put  an  end  to  his  term 
of  royalty.  H'  had  discovered  the 
pleasure  of  being  a  king. 

In  the  exceptional  circumstances  in 
which  we  are  placed,  a  sincere  appeal  to 
the  country  is  perhaps  the  only  means 
of  escaping  the  diflficulties  which  weigh 
upon  us,  and  of  resolving  that  Romiin 
question  which  overhangs,  like  the  Sicord 
of  Damocles,  the  repose  of  Europe. 

Bedolliere. 

Sword  of  Rome.  An  epithet  be- 
stowed upon  Marcellus,  the  Koraan 
general. 


T. 


Tenth  Muse.  An  appellation  given 
to  Marie  le  Jars  de  Gournay,  the 
French  writer  (1566-1645). 

Tiny  Tim.  The  familiar  name  of  lit- 
tle Tim  Cratchit,  a  cripple,  in  Dick- 
ens's (1812-1870)  "Christmas  Carol." 

Tippins,  Lady.  A  character  in  Dick- 
ens's (1812-1870)  novel  of  "  Our  Mu- 
tual Friend." 

Tito.     See  Mei.ema.  Tito. 

Tom  and  Jerry.     Famous  characters 


in  Pierce  Egan's  "Life  in  London." 
Also,  a  kind  of  spirituous  drink. 

Tommy     Atkins.       See      Atkins, 

Ti)MMY. 

Tonson,  Monsieur.  The  character 
which  give-;  the  title  to  a  fane  of  this 
name  by  W.  T.  Moncrieff. /^^f  ?^'/.  by 
W.  Thomas.  There  is  also  a  play 
of  the  same  name  by  John  Taylor. 

Traddlfis,  Tommy.  A  friend  and 
schoolmate  of    David    (-oppertield's, 


•\S~  For  the    "  Key  to  the  Scheme  of  Pronunciation,"    with  the  accompanying  Explanationsi 


TRA 


425 


UNS 


afterwards  eni;aij:pd  in  the  law,  in 
Dickens's  (1812  1870)  novel  of  "  Da- 
vid Co[)|)er(iekl."  Dr.  K.  S.  Mac- 
kenzie says  tliat  tlie  character  of 
Traddles  is  thought  to  liave  been 
me;int  for  Thomas  Noon  Talfourd. 

Transome,  Harold.  A  prominent 
character  in  George  Eliot's  (1820? 
-1880)  novel  of  "Felix  Holt." 

Transome,  Mrs.  Harold  Iransome's 
mother  in  George  Eliot's  (1820V-1880) 
novel  of  "Felix  Holt." 

Truthfiil  James.  The  supposed  im- 
aginary narrator  of  F.  Bret  Harte's 
(b.  1839)  humorous  poem  entitled 
"  Plain  Language  from  Truthful 
James," — a  poem  popularly  known, 
from  its  subject,  as  *'  The  Heathen 
Chinee." 

Tub  of  Diogenes.  Diogenes,  the 
Cynic,  carried  his  contempt  of  the 
comforts  of  life  to  such  an  extent  that 
he  at  last  adopted  as  his  habitual 
dwelling  a  tub  which  became  famous 
throughout  Greece.  He  went 
through  the  streets  of  Athens  rolling 
this  strange  cell,  which  was  at  the 
same  time  his  tribune,  from  the 
height  of  which  he  hurled  his  inex- 
haustible railleries  and  sarcasms  at 
every  form  of  falsehood  and  corrup- 
tion. 

I  might  have  been  a  great  financier, 
continued  Beranger,  but  for  what  good? 
I  have  preferred  to  be  nothing.  I  have 
had  the  ambition  of  Diogenes,  but  my 
tub  is  larger  and  more  commodious  than 
his.  It  has  contained  many  friends  and  a 
faithful  iove.  Lamartine. 

TuUiver,  Mageie.  A  briirht,  impul- 
sive girl,  the  heroine  of  George  Eliot's 
(1820V-1880)  '^Mill  on  th.-.  Floss," 
"musically  attuned  to  ail  that  is 
beautiful  and  heroic,  craving  affec- 
tion, mingling  in  her  nature  the  inex- 


plicable forces  which  make  existence 
a  per|»etual  struggle,  and,  externally, 
an  ultimate  failure." 

|:^^  "  Maggie  TuUiver  is  George  Kliot 
hiTtelf,  but  only  one  side,  one  portion, 
one  phase  of  George  Eliot's  man^ -sided, 
vastly  complex  uatui-e. 

Mat/iilfJe  Blind. 

TuUiver,  Tom.  Brother  of  INIaggie 
TuUiver  in  George  Eliot's  (1820?- 
1880)  "Mill  on  the  Floss." 

TuUy.  A  name  often  given  by  Eng- 
lish writers  to  Marcus  Tullius  Ci- 
cero, the  Roman  statesman,  philoso- 
pher, and  orator. 

In  truth  he  [Waller]  does  8.s  much  owe 
the  keeping  his  liead  to  tliat  oration  as 
Catiline  did  the  loss  of  his  to  those  of 
Tully.  Clarendon. 

Turkish  Spy.  [Fr.  L'Espion  Turc] 
Mahmut,  the  "Turkish  Spy"  in 
Giovanni  Paolo  Marana's  work  of  fic- 
tion of  the  same  name,  is  a  secret 
emissary  of  the  Porte,  who  is  sup- 
posed to  remain  at  Paris  in  disguise 
for  above  forty  years,  from  1635  to 
1682,  and  to  be  in  correspondence 
with  various  persons. 

Twain,  Mark.     See  Mark  Twain. 

Twelve  Wise  Masters.  A  name 
applied  to  the  early  association  of 
the  Mastersingers  or  Minnesingers 
about  the  fourteenth  century. 

And  then  the  Corporation  of  the  Twelve 
Wise  Masters,  with  their  stumi)fe-reime 
and  klingende-reime,  and  their  Hans 
Tindeisen's  rosemary-weise,  and  Joseph 
Schmierer's  flowery-paradise-weise,  and 
Fraueulob's  yellow-weise,  and  blue- 
weise,  and  frog-weise,  and  looling- 
glass-weise.  Lonc/Jellow. 

Tytler,  Sarah.  The  pseudonym  of 
Henrietta  Keddie  (b.  1827),  the  Eng- 
lish novelist,  and  author  of  several 
literarv  and  artistic  manuals. 


U. 


Dncle  Hemus.  The  nnm  de  plume 
adopted  liy  Joel  Chandler  Harris,  a 
well-know?i  writer  of  the  present  day, 
author  of  "  Uncle  Remus;  his  .-ongs 
and  his  sayings,"  and  other  works. 


Unser  Fritz  (iinszer  frits).  [Our 
Fritz.]  A  designation  popularly  giv- 
en bv  the  German  people  to  Freder- 
ick William  (1831-1888). 


and  for  the  Kemarks  and  Rules  to  which  the  aumbcrs  after  certain  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxii. 


VAL 


426 


WRE 


V, 


Valjean,  Jean  (zh6°  valzh6°).  The 
name  of  an  interesting  and  power- 
fully drawn  character  in  Victor 
Hujijo's  (1802-1885)  famous  romance 
of  '*Le3  Mis^rables." 

Varden,  Dolly.  A  gay  little  coquette, 
the  daughter  of  Gabriel  Varden,  in 
"  Barnabv  Rudge,"  a  novel  bv 
Charles  Dickens  (1812-1870).  The 
name  has  been  applied  to  a  certain 
manner  of  dress. 

Veneering,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charac- 
ters in  iJickens's  (1812-1870)  novel 
of  "Our  Mutual  Friend,"  whose 
characteristics  can  be  inferred  from 
their  name. 

Venice  of  the  North.  A  name 
sometimes  applied  to  Stockholm  and 
also  to  Amsterdam. 


Venner,  Elsie.  Tlie  heroine  of  a 
psychological  romance  of  the  same 
name  by  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes. 

Venus,  Isle  of.  See  Isle  of  Ve- 
nus. 

Vincy,  Rosamond.  A  character  in 
George  Eliot's  (1820?-188U)  novel  of 
"Middlemarch." 

Voltaire  of  Science.  A  title  some- 
times given  to  Boehaave,  the  cele- 
brated Dutch  phvsician  and  philoso- 
pher (1668-1738)*. 

Vox,  Valentine.  The  hern  of  Henry 
Cockton's  novel  entitled  "The  Ven- 
triloquist; being  the  life  and  ad- 
ventures of  Valentine  Vox,"  pub- 
lished in  1840. 


W. 


Ward,  John,  Preacher.  The  hero 
and  title  of  a  popular  novel  of  the 
present  day  by  Margaret  Deland. 

"Wardle,  Mr.  An  old  gentleman  in 
Dickens's  (1812-1870)  "Pickwick 
Papers,"  with  whom  and  his  several 
feminine  relatives  Mr.  Pickwick  and 
fiiends  become  well  acquainted. 

"Wegg,  Silas.  An  avaricious  ballad- 
monger  and  fruit-seller,  "a  ligneous 
sharper,"  who  under  the  guise  of 
beiiig  "a  literary  man,  irlth  a  wooden 
letj  "  is  emploved  as  a  reader  bv  Mr. 
Boffin  in  Dickens's  (1812-1870)  novel 
of  "Our  Mutual  Friend." 

"Whifae,  Captain.  See  Captain 
Whiffle. 

"White  Hoods.     From   the   peculiar 


covering  for  the  head  worn  by  the 
men  of  Ghent  when  in  military  ser- 
vice, in  the  time  of  Artevelde,  they 
were  called  White  Hoods. 

I  beheld  the  Flemish  weavers,  with  Na- 

mur  and  Juliers  bold. 
Marching  homeward   from   the   bloody 

battle  of  the  Spurs  of  Gold  ; 
Saw  the  fight  at  Minnewater,  saw  the 

White  hoods  moving  west, 
Saw  great  Artevelde  victorious  scale  the 

Golden  Dragon's  nest.       Longfellow. 

"White  Tsar.     An  appellation  given 

to  the  emperor  of  Kussia. 
"Widow  Bedott.     See  Bedott, 

W'iDOW. 

"Wren,  Jenny.  A  doll's  dressmaker 
(reallv  named  F'annv  Cleaver)  in 
Dickens's  (1812-1870)'novel  of  "Our 
Mutual  Friend." 


laS"  For  the   "Key  to  the  Scheme  of   Pronunciation,"  with    the  accompanying    Explanations, 
Vid  for  the  Kemaikg  and  Rules  to  which  the  numbcrB  after  certaiu  words  refer,  see  pp.  xiv-xxxiL 


INDEX 

OF  THE  REAL  NAMES  OF  PERSONS,  PLACES,  ETC.,  WHOSE 
NICKNAMES,  PSEUDONYMS,  OR  POPULAR  APPELLATIONS, 
ARE    GIVEN    IN    THE    PRECEDING    DICTIONARY. 


'  Qui  leia  en  cherche  de  ecience,  ei  la  pesche  oil  elle  Be  loge."  —  Montaioitb. 


Aartsen,  Peter.    Long  Peter 
Abernethy,  John.     Doctor  My-book. 
Abraham.     Father  of  the  Faithful. 
Abyla  and   Calpe.      See  Gibraltar,  Rock 

OF,  AND   JKBEL  ZaTOUT. 

Accolti,  Bernardo.     The  Only  Aretino. 

Adair,  Serjeant.     Junius  (?) 

Adams,  John  Quincy.     Old  Man  Eloquent. 

Adams,  William  T.     Oliver  Optic. 

Addison,  Joseph.     Atticus,  Clio. 

.^gidius  Romanus.    See  Komanos,  .Jk3IDlU9. 

^schylus.     Father  of  Tragedy. 

Aiitiua.     Last  of  the  Romans. 

Africa.     Afric. 

Agamemnon.     King  of  Men. 

Agoult,  Countess  of.  (Marie  de  Flavigny .) 
Daniel  Stern. 

Aiken,  Margtret.    Great  Witch  of  Balwery. 

Ailly,  Pierre  d'.  Eagle  of  French  Doctors, 
Hammer  of  Heretics. 

Albani,  Francesco.     Anacreon  of  Painters. 

Albert  [Margrave  of  Brnndenburg  and 
Cuhnbach).  Achilles  of  Germany,  or 
German  Achilles. 

Alboquerque,  Alfonso  de.  Portuguese 
Mars. 

Alcaforada,  Mariana.     Portuguese  Nun. 

Alexander  the  Great.  Madman  of  Mace- 
donia. 

Alfonso  I.  (of  Spain).     Catholic  Majesty. 

Algarotti,  Count  Francesco.  Swan  of  Pad- 
ua. 

Algiers.     Argier. 

Ali  ( uncle  of  Mnhammed).     Lion  of  God. 

Allahabad.     Holy  City. 

Allan,  David.     Scottish  Hogarth. 

Allen,  lialph.     Allworthy,  Man  of  Bath. 

Allen,  or  .\llevn,  Simon.     Vicar  of  Bray  (?). 

ij  mazon.     King  of  Watfrs. 

America.    Columbia,  New  World. 


American  Indian  (  The).    Red  Man. 

Amory,  Thomas.     English  Rabelais. 

Anastasius.     New  Mo.ses. 

Andouins,  Diane  d".  (Countess  of  GuieJu 
and  Grammont.)    Beautiful  Corisande. 

Andreas,  Antony.     Dulcitluous  Doctor. 

Angus,  Archibald,  Earl  ot.     Good  Earl. 

Anjou,  Duke  of.  (PkiLip  Bourbon.)  Philip 
Baboon. 

Anjou,  llene  d'.     See  Renb  d'Anjou. 

Anne  (queen  of  James  I.).     Oriana. 

Anne,  Queen.     Brandy  Nan,  Mrs.  Morley. 

Anscharius      Apostle  of  the  North. 

Anselm  of  Laon.     Scholastic  Divine. 

Antioch.     Queen  of  the  East. 

Antoninus,  Marcus  Aurelias.  The  Philos- 
opher. 

ApoUonius  of  Alexandria.  Prince  of  Gram- 
marians. 

Apperley.  Charles  J.     Nimrod. 

Appiani,  Andrea.     Painter  of  the  Graces. 

Aquinas.  St.  Thomas.  Angelic  Doctor, 
Angel  of  the  Schools,  Dumb  Ox.  EjigU 
of  Divines,  Father  of  Moral  Philosophy, 
Fifth  Doctor  of  the  Church,  Second 
Augustine,  Universal  Doctor. 

Arabia.     Araby. 

Arcadia.     Arcady. 

Aretino,  Pietro.     Scourge  of  Princes. 

Argyleshire.     Morven  (?). 

Aristarchus  of  Samothrace.  Coryphaeus  (\ 
Grammarians. 

Aristophanes.     Father  of  Comedv. 

Ari-itntle.     Pope  of  Philosophy,  Stagirit,,. 

Arkan«as  (State).     Bear  Stafe. 

ArTiistro'ig,  John.     Lanncelot  Temple. 

Armstrong,  William.     Kinmont  Willi*.. 

Arrom,  Cecilia.     Fernan  (-ahallero 

-A rt.axerxes      King  of  Kings. 

Arteveld,  Jacob,    firewer  of  Ghenv 


ART 


428 


BRI 


Arthur  ( Kins;).     Flower  of  Kings. 
Asciiaiii,  liogur.     ]?'atJier  of  English  Prose. 
Assi.xi,  St.  t'raiicis  d'.     Seraphic  Saint. 
Athaniisius,  St.     l<'atlier  of  Orthodoxy. 
AUiutis.     City  of  tlie  \  iolet  tJrowu. 
Atheii.s   and   Sparta.      The    Two    Eyes   of 

Greece. 
Atlanta.     Gate  City. 
Attila.       Scourge  of   God,    Terror  of   the 

World. 
Auersperg.   Antoa  Alexander  von.     Anas- 

titsius  Grun. 
Augustine,  St.     Bishop  of  Hippo 
Augustine,  or  Austin,  St.     Apostle  of  the 

English. 
Aureolus,  Peter.     Eloquent  Doctor. 
/Austria,   Charles,   Archduke  of.      Esquire 

South. 
Avicenna.     Prince  of  Physicians. 
Awbeg.     Mulla. 
Aytoun,  WiUiam  E.     Augustus  Dunshun- 

ner. 
Aytoun  (William  E.  )and  Martin  (Theodore). 

Bon  Gaultier. 

Baalbec.     City  of  the  Sun,  or  Solar  City. 

Babelmandeb.     Gate  of  Tears. 

Bacon,  Roger.  Admirable,  or  Wonderful, 
Doctor. 

Baconthorp,  or  Bacondorp,  or  Bacon,  John. 
Resolute  Doctor. 

Bagouly.     Pactolus. 

Bagshaw,  WilUam.     Apostle  of  the  Peak. 

Balkh.     Mother  of  Cities. 

Ballantyne,  James.  Aldiborontephosco- 
ptiornio. 

Ballautyne,  John.     Rigdum  Funnidos. 

Balsamo,  Joseph.     Count  de  Cagliostro. 

Baltimore.     Monumental  City. 

Bandarra,  Gon^alo  Annes.  Portuguese 
Nostradamus. 

Bank  of  England.  Old  Lady  of  Thread- 
needle  Street. 

Bank-of- England  Note.     Abraham  Newland. 

Barbadoes.     Little  England. 

Barere,  Bertrand.  Anacreon  of  the  Guillo- 
tine, Witling  of  Terror. 

^'arhani,  Kichard.     Thomas  Ingoldsby. 

Baron,  Michael.     French  Roscius. 

Barre,  Isaac.     Junius  (?). 

Barros,  .lono  de.     Portuguese  Livv. 

Barth.  or  liart,  Jean.     French  Devil. 

Barton,  Bernard.     Quaker  Poet. 

Barton,  Elizabeth.     Holy  Maid  of  Kent. 

Basselin,  Oliver.     Father  of  the  Vaudeville. 

Bassol,  John.     Most  Methodical  Doctor. 

Ba^avia.     Queen  of  the  East. 

Bates,  William.     The  Silver-tongued. 

'  'ath  ( En^. ).     Mount  Badon  (?). 

Bayard,  Chevalier.  {Pierrp  de  Tfrrnil.) 
Good  Knight  without  Fear  and  without 
Heproach. 

Becket,  Gilbert.  Lord  Beichan,  or  Bate- 
nian  (?). 

Bede.     The  Venerable. 

Bo'iam,  Hans  Sebnld.     Little  Master. 

Behn,  Aphra,  or  Aphara.    Astrsea. 


Bell,  Adam.     Abraham-Cupid  (?). 

Bel  lay,  Joachim  du.     Prince  of  the  Soiinei, 

Benares.     Holy  City. 

Beuto.i,  Thomas  H.     Old  Bullion. 

Berkshire  {Eni:.).     Mount  Badon  (?). 

Berlicliingeu.  G<ietz  von.     Iron  Hand. 

Bermuda  Islands.     BermootUes. 

Bernard,  St.  Honeyed  Teacher,  Last  of  the 
Fathers,  Meliitiuous  Doctor,  Thauma- 
turgus  of  the  West. 

Betty,  W  illium  H.  W.     Young  Roscius. 

Bible.  (Gent van)  Breeches  Bible;  {Lon- 
don, 1578)  Dotted  Bible;  (Oxford^ 
17l7)  Vinegar  Bible;  (Barker  and  Lu- 
cas's  11532)  Wicked  Bible. 

Billaut,  Adam.     Master  Adam. 

Bitzius,  Albert.     Jeremi;is  Gotthelf. 

Blackwood,  William.     Ebony. 

Blackwood's  Magazine.     Ebony,  Maga. 

Blake,  Jo.-eph.     Blueskin. 

Bldchur,  Lebrecht  von.     Marshal  Forwards. 

Bolesias  1.  (of  Poland).    Coeur  de  Liou. 

Bolivar,  Simon.  The  Liberator,  Washing* 
ton  of  Colombia. 

Bonaparte,  Napoleon.  Armed  Soldier  di 
Democracy,  Boney,  Corporal  Violet, 
Father  Violet,  General  Undertaker, 
Heir  of  the  Republic,  Jean  d'  Epee, 
Jupiter  Scapin,  Little  Corporal,  5lan 
of  Destiny,  Nightmare  of  Europe,  The 
Other  One. 

Bonaparte,  Napoleon  Francis  Charles  Jo- 
seph.    King  of  Rome. 

Bonaparte.     See  Napoleon,  Prince. 

Bonaventura,  St.     Seraphic  Doctor. 

Boniface,  .Joseph  Xavier.     Saintine,  Xaviei. 

Boniface,  St.     Apostle  of  Germany. 

Bonnivard,  Kran^oi-;  de.  Prisoner  of  Chillon. 

Borde,  Andrew.     Merry- .Vndrew. 

Bordeaux,  Duke  of.  ( Hfnri  diaries  Fer- 
dinand Marie  Dieudonne  d'Artois\ 
Miraculous  Child. 

Bossuet,  Jacques  Benigne.    Eagle  of  Meaux. 

Boston  (  U.  S.).  Athens  of  America,  City  of 
Notions,  Hub  of  the  Universe,  Modern 
Athens,  Puritan  City,  Tremont  or  Tri- 
niountjiin. 

Boston  State-House.     Hub  of  the  Universe. 

Boswell,  .lames.     Bozzy. 

Bourbonnais,  Charles,  Duke  of.  Constable 
de  Bourbon. 

Bounlaloue,  Louis.     King  of  Preaches. 

Bonrcttc,  Charlotte.     F/i  Muse  Linionadierc 

Bourgogne,  Antoine  de.     Grent  Bastard. 

Bonrgogne,  Louis,  Duke  of.  Great  Dauphia 

Bourgogne,  Louis.  Dnke  of  (so7i  of  the  pre- 
ceding).    Little  Dauphin. 

Boyd,  A.  K.  H.     (^ountrv  Parson. 

Bovd.  Hugh.     Junius  (?). 

Boyle.  Richard.     Great  Earl  of  Cork. 

Bozzaris.  Marco.  Leonidas  of  Modera 
Greece. 

Bradley,  Edward.     Cuthbcrt  Bede. 

Bradwarilinc.  Thomas.     Profound  Doctor. 

Brentano.  Elizabeth.     Bettina. 

Bridgewafer.  Duke  of.  (  Fmnri'i  Et-  rtnnJf 
Father  of  British  Inland  Navigation. 


BRI 


429 


CHU 


Britain.     Albion,  Mistress  of  the  Seas. 

BritKsii  Islts.     Old  Country. 

Britisu  lifvitnv.  My  Irraiidiuotlier's  Review. 

British  Soldiers,     lled-coats. 

Bronte,  Aiuie.     Actun  Btll. 

Bronte,  Charlotte.     (Mrs.  Nic/iolls.)     Cur- 

rer  Bed. 
Bronte,  Emily.     Ellis  Bell. 
Brooklyn.     City  ofrhurtdies. 
Brooks,  Maria.     Maria  tleli"  Occidente. 
Brougham,  Henry,  Lord.     Harry  'I'witcher. 
Brown,  Launcelot.     Capability  Brown. 
Browne,  Charles  V.     Artemus  Ward. 
Browne,  Halbot  K.     Phiz. 
Brydges,  Grey.     (Lord   C/iandos.)    King  of 

Cotswould. 
Buchanan,  James.  Old  Public  Functionary. 
Buckingham,  Duke  of.     (George    ViUiers.) 

Steenie. 
Bu<kiugham,2dDukeof.    (George  ViUiers.) 

Zimri. 
Buda.     Key  of  Christendom. 
Buffalo.     Queen  City  of  the  Lakes. 
Bultadoeus,  John.     Wandering  Jew. 
Bulwer  Lytton,  Edward  Piobert.    Owen  Mer- 
edith. 
Bunbury,  Mrs.     See  Horneck,  Catharine. 
Bunyan,  John.     Bishop  Bunyan. 
Burdett,  Sir  Francis.     England's  Pride  and 

AV'estminster's  Glory. 
Burgoyne.  John.      Chrononhotonthologos, 

Sir  Jack  Brag. 
Burke,  Edmund.    Junius  (?). 
Burleigh,  Walter.     Plain  and  Perspicuous 

Doctor. 
Burns,  Robert.     Bard  of  Ayrshire,  Peasant 

Bard. 
Burritt,  Elihu.     Learned  Blacksmith. 
Burton,  Robert.     Democritus  Junior. 
Byron,   Commodore    John.      Foul-weather 
Jack. 

Cairo.     City  of  Victory. 

Calcutta.     City  of  Palaces. 

Californii  (  Gulf).     Vermilion  Sea. 

California  ( State  ).     Golden  State. 

Calpe    and    Abyla.     See    Gibraltar,  Rock 

OF.  AND  JeBKL  ZaTOUT. 

Cambrai,  Peace  of.     Ladies'  Peace. 

Camden,  William.     British  Pausanias. 

Cameron.  Donald.     Gentle  Lochiel. 

Cameron,  Sir  Evan.      Lochiel. 

Camoens,  Luis.     Portuizuese  Apollo. 

Campbell,  John.     Shepherd  of  Banbury  (?). 

Campbell,  Mary.     Highland  ALary. 

Campbell,  Robert.  See  Macgregor,  Rob- 
ert. 

Campbell,  Thomas.     Bard  of  Hope. 

(^anaan.     Promised  Land. 

C  inada.     New  France. 

Canadians.     Cannucks. 

Canadians  (  Tiie  French).     Jean  Baptiste. 

Cannre  (Bnttlp-field  of).    Field  of  Blood. 

Canning,  George.     Cicero  of  the  Senate 

Cape  of  Good  Hnpc.  Head  of  Africa  Lion 
of  the  Spa,  Stormy  Cape. 

Carew,  Bam pfylde  Moore.    King  of  Beggars. 

26 


Carlisle.     Carduel. 

Carlyle,  Alexander.     Jupiter  Carlyle. 

CarvaUu),  Sel)astiHO  Jo.se  de.     (Marquis  de 

PdtnbdI.)     Gre.it  Marquis. 
Cassius,  Cains,     i^astoftue  Ixomans. 
Castlereagh,  Lord.    (Robert  Stewart.)   Der- 

rydown  Triangle. 
Castriota,  George.      White  Devil  of  Walla- 

chia. 
Cateau-Cambresis,  Peace  of.      Unfortunate 

Peace. 
Catharine  II.  (of  Russia).     Modern  Messa- 

litia,  Semiramis  of  tlie  North. 
Catiiiat,  Nicholas.     Father  Thoughtful, 
(.'enci,  Heatrice.     Beautiful  I'arricide. 
Cervantes  Sa;ivedra,  Miguel  de.     Cid  Hamet 

Benengeli. 
Chanibor  1,  Comte  de.     Miraculous  Child. 
Chanipeaux,  William  de.     Pillar  of  Doctors, 

Venerable  Doctor. 
Chandos,  Lord.     See  Brydges,  Gret. 
Charles,  Archduke  of  Austria.    See  Austria, 

Ch\rles,  Archdukk  of. 
Charles  I.  (of  England).     Last   Man,  Man 

of  Blood,  Royal  Martyr. 
Charles    II.    (of   England).      Merry    Mon- 
arch,  Old    Rowley,   Son  of   the    Last 

Man. 
Charles  II.  (of  France).      Most   Christian 

King,  or  Majesty. 
Charles  IT.  (nf  Spain).     Lord  Strutt. 
Charles  1\ .  (of  Moravia)        Parsons'  Em- 
peror. 
Charles  V.  (of  France).     French  Solomon, 

or  Solomon  of  France. 
Charles  V.  (of  Spain).     Picrochole  (?). 
Charles  XI L  (of  Sweden).     Alexander  of 

the    North,    Madman    of    the    North, 

Quixote  of  the  North. 
Chatham,  Earl  of.     See  Pitt,  William. 
Chatterton,      Thomas.       Marvelous     Boy, 

Thomas   Rowley . 
Chaucer,  Geoffrey.     Father  of  English  Poe- 
try, Flower  of  Poets,  Tityrus. 
Chiabi-era,  Gabriello.     Italian  Pindar. 
Chicago.     Garden  City. 
China.     Cathay,  Celestial  Empire,  Flowery 

Kingdom,  Middle  Kingdom. 
Chine>e  (  Tlie).     John  Chinaman. 
Christ.     Good  Physician.  Good  Shepherd, 

King  of  Kings,   Kriss   Kringlc,    Prince 

of  Peace,  Son  of  God,  Son  of  Man. 
Christian    II.  (of  Denmark  and   Sweden). 

Nero  of  the  North. 
Christian  III.  (of  Denmark).    Father  of  his 

People. 
Christopher  III.  (of  Denmark,  Sweden,  and 

Nnncay).     King  of  Bark. 
Christ's    Hospital    (London).       Blue -coat 

School. 
Chrysostom,  St.  .John.     Glorious  Preacher. 
Chubbuck,     Emily.      See    Judson,     Mrs. 

Emily. 
Chulkhurst,  Mary  and  Elizabeth.     Bidden- 

(lon  Maids. 
Churchill,  John.     See  Ji'AELBORODGn,  DuKB 

of. 


CIC 


430 


DUN 


Ckero,    Marcus    TuUiua.      Father  of    hia 

Country. 
Cincinnati.    Losantiville,  Porkopolis,  Queen 

City,  Queen  of  the  VV^est. 
Clare,  .John.     Peasant  Poet  of  Northamp- 
tonshire. 
Clark.  McDonald.     Mad  Poet. 
Clay,  Henry.     Mill-boy  of  the  Slashes. 
Clement  XIV.  (  Giaii  Vincenzo  Ganganelli.) 

Protestant  Pope. 
Cleop;itra.     Queen  of  Queens. 
CI -vebind.     Korcst  <!ity. 
Cliff  >rd,  Henry,  Lord.     Shepherd  Lord. 
Clilftrd,  Rosuiiond.     Fair  Rosamond. 
Clodia.     Lesbia. 
Clootz,  Baron  Jean  Baptiste.     Anacharsis 

Clootz. 
Cobbett,  William.     Peter  Porcupine. 
Coello,  Alonzo  Sanches.    Portuguese  Titian. 
CofRii,  Robert  Barry.     Barry  Gray. 
Cotfli),  Robert  S.     Boston  Bard. 
Cold- Bath  Fii'lds,  Jail  of.     English  Bastille. 
Coleridge,  Samuel  Taylor.     S.  T.  C. 
Collin-^,  Jo m.     English  Mersenne. 
Columba,  St.     Apostle  of  the  Highlanders. 
Confederate  Soldiers.     Johnny  Rebs. 
Confederate  States.     Secessia. 
Connecticut     (S'n'e).        Freestone      State, 

Land  of  Steady  Hibits,  Nutmeg  State. 
Constitution  (  Tie.  Frigate).  Old  Ironsides. 
Cordova,   Uonsalvo  de.     See  Gonsalvo  de 

Cordova. 
Corineiisis,    l{icardus.       See    RicaARi)    op 

CrRENCESTER. 

Corinna.     Lyric  Muse. 

Cork.     Athens  of  Ireland,  Drisheen  City. 

Corwin,  Thomas.     Wagoner  Boy. 

Cosmo  de"  Medici.     See  Medici,  CoSiMo  de'. 

Cotin,  Abbe.     Trissotin. 

Courtray  ( Battle  of).     Battle  of  Spurs. 

Cowper,  Willi  im.     Bard  of  Olnev. 

Coysevox,  Autnine.     Vandyck  of  Sculpture. 

Crichton,  James.     Admirable  Crichton. 

Crolv,  Mrs.  J.  <j.     Jennie  .June. 

Croiiiwell,  Oliver.     Old  Noll.  Man  nf  Sin. 

Cromwell.  I'homas.     Maul  of  Monks. 

Cromwell's  SdI  liers.     Ironsile-i. 

Cruden,  Alexander.  Alexander  the  Cor- 
rector. 

Cuba.  Key  of  the  Gulf,  Queen  of  the  An- 
tilles. 

Cumberland,  Duke  of.     Bl^o  Iv  Butcher. 

Cumberland,  Richard.  English  Terence, 
Sir  Fretful  Plagiary. 

Cunningham,  Allan.     Mark  Macrabiu  (?). 

Cus  I,  Nicolas  de      Most  Christian  Doctor. 

Cuzco.     Holy  City. 

Cyril,  St.  (njf  Alexanrlria).  Champion  of  the 
Virgin,  Doctor  of  the  Incarnation. 

Cyril,  St.     Apostle  of  the  Slaves. 

Czacki,  Thaddeus.     Polish  Franklin. 

Damiens,  Robert  Francois.   Robert  the  Devil. 
Daniel,  Rose.     Ro.salind. 
Daniel,  Samuel.     Well-languasred  Daniel. 
Davanx.    Jean    Baptiste.      Father    of    the 
Rondo. 


David.  Man  of  Blood,  Royal  Psalmist, 
Sweet  Singer  cf  Israel. 

Davidolf,  Dennis.     Black  Captain. 

Death.  Davy  Jones,  King  of  Terrors,  Small- 
back. 

Delaware  (State).  Blue  Hen,  Diamond 
State. 

Democritus  of  Abdera.  Laughing  Philoso- 
pher. 

Denis,  St.     Apostle  of  the  French. 

De  Quiucey,  Thomas.   English  Opium-eater. 

Derby,  Earl  of.  (Edward  Geoffrey  &mith,- 
Stanley. )    Hotspur  of  Debate. 

Derby,  George  H.  John  Phoenix,  Gentle- 
man. 

Desbillons,  Francois  Joseph  Terasse.  Lskst 
of  the  Romans. 

Desforges,  Evariste  Desire.  French  Tibullus. 

Desmoulins.  Camille.  Attorney-General  to 
the  Lantern. 

D'  Kspremenil.     Crispin-Catiline. 

Detroit.     City  of  the  Straits. 

Devereux,  Penelope.     Stella. 

Devil  (  Tue).  Auld  Ane,  Auld  Clootie,  Auld 
Hangie,  Auld  Hornie,  Black  Man,  EbUs, 
Evil  One,  Father  of  Lies,  Lord  Harry, 
Lucifer,  Nickie-Ben.  Old  Beudv,  Old 
Gentleman,  Old  Harry,  Old  Nick,  Old 
One,  Old  Scratch,  Satan,  Sir  Uriao, 
Squire  Voland.     See  Satan. 

Dickens,  Charles.     Boz. 

Dickinson,  John.     Pennsylvania  Farmer. 

Disrieli,  Benjamin.     Dizzy. 

Do  hell.  Sydney.     Sydney  Yendys. 

Dobson,  William.  English  Tintoret,  Eng- 
lish Vandvck. 

Dodge,  Mary  A.     Gail  Hamilton. 

Dogs.  (Of  Fingal)  Bran ;  (of  Llewellyn) 
Gelert ;  (of  the  Seven  Sleepers)  "  Al 
Rikim. 

Donald  of  Islay.     Lord  of  the  Isles. 

Dorat,  .lean       French  Pindar. 

Doria,  Andrea.     Father  of  Peace. 

Douglas,  Archibald.  Bell-the-Cat,  Great 
Eirl. 

Douglas,  Archibald  TV.,  Earl  of.    Tyneman. 

Douglas,  Ellen.     Lady  of  the  Lake. 

Douglas,  M  irgaret.  Countess  of.  Fair  Maid 
of  Galloway. 

Douglas,  Stephen  A.     Little  Giant. 

Douiilas,  Willinm  of.     Flower  of  Chivalry. 

Dowling.  Vincent.     Long  Scribe. 

Draper,  Elizabeth.     The  Bramine. 

Drvden,  John.     Bayes,  Poet  Squab. 

Dublin  Univer.sity  Magazine  (Editor  of). 
.\nthony  Poplar. 

Duchesne,  Andre.  Father  of  French  His- 
tory. 

Dudevant.  Mme.     George  Sand. 

Du  Gue.sclin.  Bertrand.     Kagle  of  Brittany. 

Dundas.  Henrv.  (Lord  Melville.)  Starva- 
tion Dundis. 

Dundee.  Viscount.     See  Graham,  John. 

Dunning.  John.  (Lord  Askburton.)  3\if 
nins  (?). 

Dunois.  .Jean.     B^istard  of  Orleans. 

Duns  Scotus.    Subtle  Doctor. 


DUR 


431 


GHI 


Durand  de  St.   Pour^ain.     Most  Resolute 

Doctor,  or  Resolute  Doctor. 
DdrHF,  Albert.     I'riiioe  oi  Artists. 
Dutch  (  2'ne).     Nic  Frog. 
D>er,  Samuel.     Junius  (?). 

Enstern  Hemisphere.     Old  World. 

Ea.xt  India  Oompan}'.  John  Company,  or 
Mother  Company. 

Eden.     Aidenn. 

Edinburgh.  Auld  Reekie,  City  of  Palaces, 
Dun  Edin.  Edin  or  Edina,  Embro, 
Maiden  Town,  Modern  Atlieu.s,  North- 
ern Athens,  Queen  of  the  North. 

Edinburgli.  Jail  of     Heart  of  Mid-Lothian. 

Edmund  II.     Ironside. 

Edward  I.  (of  England).  English  Justinian. 

Edward,  Prince  of  Wales  {■■sua  of  Edward 
in.).     Black  Prince. 

Edwards,  George.    Father  of  Ornithologists. 

Egertoii,  Francis.     See  Bridgewater,  Duke 

OF. 

Egypt.     Land  of  Bondage. 

Eleanora  of  Brittany.     Damsel  of  Brittany. 

Eldon,  Lord.     {John  Scott.)    Old  Bags. 

Eliot,  John.     Apostle  of  the  Indians. 

Elis.     Holy  Land. 

Elizabeth  (of  England).  Belphcebe,  Glori- 
ana.  Good  Queen  Bess,  Maiden  Queen, 
Oriana,  Virgin  Queen. 

Elizabeth  (of  Bohemia).  Goody  Palsgrave, 
Queen  of  Hearts,  Winter  Queen 

Elizabeth  Petrowria  (of  Russia).    Infamous 

Northern  Harlot 
Elliott,  Ebenezer.     Corn-law  Rhymer. 

Emma,  {of  Norynandy).    Gem  of  Normandy. 

England.  I.K3egria  or  Logres,  Merry  Eng- 
land, Ringins  Island,  South  Britain. 

England,  Brink  of.     See  Bank  of  England. 

England,  King  of     Defender  of  the  Faith. 

English  (The).  Bono  Johnny.  Godon  or 
Godam,  John  Bull,  Nation  of  Shop- 
keepers. 

Este,  Prince  of.     Azo. 

Efhelwold  of  Winchester.   Father  of  Monks. 

Eusebius  of  Caesarea.  Father  of  Ecclesias- 
tical History. 

Evans,  Mary  A.     See  Lewes,  Mary  A. 

Faber,  John.     Hammer  of  Heretics. 

Fabius  Maximus  Verrucosus,  Quintus. 
Cunctator. 

Faneuil  Hall.     Cradle  of  Liberty. 

Faulkner.  George.     Atticus. 

Fenelon.(Fm;?fo/s  de  Salignac  de  la  Mothe..) 
Swan  of  Cambrai. 

Fenner.  W.     Martin  Mar-Prelate  (?). 

Ferdinand  IT.  (of  the  Two  Sicilies).  Bomba. 

Ferdinand  V.  (of  Spain).    Catholic  Majesty. 

Ferguson,  Richard.     Galloping  Dick. 

Fermor,  Arabella.     Belinda. 

Fessenden,  Thomas  G.  Christopher  Caustic. 

Field,  John.     Martin  Mar-Prelate  (?). 

Finch.  Heneage.  (Lord  Nottingham.)  Fa- 
ther of  Equity. 

Fitzgerald,  Elizabeth.     Fair  Geraldine. 

i'itzgerald,  William  T.     Small-beer  Poet. 


Flavigny,  Marie  de.    See  Agoclt,  Countmi 

OF. 

B'leet  Prison  (Lo«^/on).     Fleta. 

Florida.     l*euiiisular  State. 

Fiorio,  Jon  11.  Don  Adiiano  de  Armado, 
llolofernes.  The  Resolute. 

Fludd,  Robert.     The  .'^earrher. 

Foix,  Gastoii  de.     See  Gaston  de  Foix. 

Foote,  Samuel.  English  Aristophanes,  Mod- 
ern Aristophanes. 

Forrester,  Alfred  II.     A.  Crowquiil. 

Fouquet,  Nicolas.  Man  with  the  Iron 
Mask  (?). 

Fox,  Charles  .lames.  Carlo  Khan,  Man  of 
the  People. 

France.     Gallia,  La  Belle  France. 

France,  King  of.  Most  Christian  King,  or 
Majesty . 

Francis  I.  (of  France).     Father  of  Letters. 

Francis,  Sir  Philip.     Junius  {.'). 

Francis  d'Assisi,  St.  See  Assisi,  St.  Fran- 
cis d'. 

Franklin.  Benjamin.     Richard  Saunders. 

Eraser's  Magazine  (-B^/ior  of).  Oliver  Yorke. 

Frederick  V.  (Elector  Palatini).  Goodman 
Palsgrave,  Winter  King. 

Frederick  the  Great.  Alaric  Cottin,  Der  Alte 
Fritz,  Philosopher  of  Sans-Souci. 

Frederick  William  (of  Brandenburg).  Great, 
or  Grand,  Elector. 

Fremont,  John  C.     The  Path-finder. 

French  {  The).  Jean,  or  Johnny,  Crapaud, 
Robert  Macaii-e. 

French  Canadians.  See  Canadians  (The 
French). 

French  Peasantry.    Jacques  Bonhomme. 

Frere,  John  Ilookham.  William  and  Rob- 
ert Whistlecraft. 

Frith.  Mary.     Moll,  or  Mall,  Cutpurse. 

Fry,  Elizabeth.    Female  Howard. 

Galway.     City  of  the  Tribes. 

Ganganelli,  Gian  Vincenzo.     See  Clement 

XTV. 
Garcilaso  de  Vega.  Prince  of  Spanish  Poetry. 
Garrick,  D.avid.     English  Roscius. 
Gaston  de  Foix.     Thunderbolt  of  Italy. 
Gautama.     Buddha. 
Gav.  John.     Orpheus  of  Highwaymen. 
Geneva  Bible.     See  Biblr. 
Gentleman's  Mairazine  ( Editor  of).  Sylvanus 

Urban.  Gent. 
George  T.  (of  England).     Turnip-hoer. 
George  TTI.     Farmer  George. 
George  IV.     First  Gentleman  of  Europe. 
George,  Lake.     Horicon. 
George,  Prince  (of  Denmark).     Est-il-possi- 

ble. 
Germain,    Lord.      See    Sackville,     Lord 

George. 
Germans  (  The).     Cousin  Michael. 
Germany.     Almain. 
Germany.  Heir  of  the  Emperor  of     King 

of  the  Romans.  [Doctor. 

Gerson,    Jean    Charli<^r   d*^.   Most  Christian 
Ghika,  Helena.  (Prince.<ts  Koltzoff-Massal- 

iky.)    Doria  D'Isiria. 


GIB 


432 


HOO 


Gibraltar,  Rock  of.  Key  of  the  Mediterra- 
nean. 

Gibraltar,  Rock  of,  and  Jebel  Zatout.  Pil- 
lar.s  of  Hercules. 

Gildas.     Uritish  .leiemiah. 

Giles  de  Laval.     IJlue-beard. 

Gillies,  Kohert  l*earee.     Ivempferhausen. 

Giluiore,  James  11.     Kdmuud  Kirke. 

Gilpin,  Rernard.  Apostle  of  the  North,  Fa- 
ther ot  the  Poor. 

Girardiu,  Delphiue  de.  Le  Vicomte  Delau- 
iiay . 

Glafigow.  City  of  the  West,  Venice  of  the 
West. 

G\a.sgo\v  (Inhabitants  of).  MordecaiMullion. 

Glastonbury.     Avalon. 

Glover,  Catherine.     Fair  Maid  of  Perth. 

Goderich,  Viscount.  (Fred trick  Robinson.) 
Goosey  Goderich,  Prosperity  Robin.<on. 

Godoy,  Manuel  de.     Prince  of  the  Peace. 

Goethals,  Henry.     Solemn  Doctor. 

Goethe,  Johann  Wolfgang  von.  German 
Voltaire,  The  Master. 

Goetz  von  Berlichingen.  See  Berlichesgen, 
GoETZ  vox 

Goldoni,  Carlo.     Italian  Moliere. 

Goldschuiidt,  Mme.     See  Lixd.  .Jexnt. 

Goldsmith,  Oliver.     Goldy,  Inspired  Idiot. 

Gomorrah  and  Sodom.     Cities  of  the  Plain. 

Gonsalvo  de  Cordova.     Great  Captain. 

Gonzales.  BH.    See  Stmmoxds,  Johx. 

Good  Hope,  Cape  of.  See  Cape  op  Good 
Hope. 

Goodrich,  Frank  B.    Dick  TTnte. 

Goodrich.  Samuel  G.     Peter  Parley. 

Gordon,  Duke  of.     Cock  of  the  North. 

Goujon,   Jean.     French  Phidias. 

Gower,  John.     The  Moral  Gower. 

Graham,  James.  (Marquis  of  Montrose.) 
Great  Marquis. 

Graham,  John.  (  Viscount  Dundee.)  Claver- 
house. 

Great  Britain.     See  Britaix. 

Gregory  I.  (  Pope).  Servant  of  the  Servants 
of  "God. 

Gregory  VII.  (Pope).    Turk  Gregory. 

Gregory,  St.  (of  Armenia).  The  Illumi- 
nator. 

Gregory  of  Neo-Caesarea.     Thaumaturgua. 

Gregory  of  Rimini.     Authentic  Doctor. 

Grenviile,  George.     Gentle  Shepherd. 

Grenville,  Hicliard.     See  Temple,  Lord. 

Grey,  Lord.     Artegal. 

Guernsey.     Holy  Island. 

Guesclin,  Bertrand  du.     Eagle  of  Brittany. 

Guilford.     Astolat. 

Guinarda,  Pedro  Rocha.    Roque  Gninart. 

Guinegate  (Battle  of).     Battle  of  Spurs. 

Gustavus  Adolphus.     Lion  of  the  North. 

Guzman,  Alphonso  Perez  de.  Spanish  Bru- 
tus. 

Guzman,  Fernan  Nunez  de.  Greek  Com- 
mentjitor. 

Gwyn,  Mary .    See  IIorneok,  Mart. 

Bafiz.  Anacreon  of  Persia,  or  Persian 
Anacreou. 


Hale.s,  Alexander.  Fountain  of  Life,  Irre- 
fragable Doctor. 

Hales,  .John.     The  Ever-memorable. 

Haliburton,  Thouitis  C.     Sam  Slick. 

llall,  Joseph.  Christian  Seneca,  English 
Seneca. 

Ilalpine,  Charles  G.     Private  Miles  OMUilly. 

llamann,  Johann  Georg.  Magician  of  the 
North. 

IlaniiltoM,  Alexander.     Publius. 

Hamilton,  Patrick.     First  Scotch  Reformer. 

Hamilton,  Sir  Thomas.  Tarn  of  the  Cow- 
gate. 

Ilamilton,  William  Gerard.  Junius  {?), 
Single-speech  Hamilton. 

Hannibal.     Bluff  City. 

Hardeiiberg,  Friedrich  von.     Novalis. 

Harley,  Robert.  (Earl  of  Oxford  and  Mat' 
timtr.)     Harlequin. 

Ilarri.son,  William  U.     Tippecanoe. 

Harrow,  William.     Flying  Ilighwayman. 

Harvey,  Gabriel.     Hobinol. 

Hassan  Ben-Sabbah-el-Homairi.  Old  Man 
of  the  Mountain. 

Haynau,  Julius  Jakob  von.  Austrian  Hy- 
ena. 

Heaven.     Celestial  City,  New  Jerusalem. 

Heber,  Richard.     Atticus. 

Ilebert.  Jacques  Rene.     Le  Pere  Duchesne. 

Heenan,  John  C.     Benicia  Boy. 

Henley,  John.     Orator  Henley. 

Henry  I.  (of  England).     Beauclerc. 

Henry  II.  (of  Germany).  King  of  the  Ro- 
mans. 

Henry  IV.  (of  France).  King  of  Brave 
Men,  Le  Bearnais. 

Henry  VII.  (of  England).  Defender  of 
the  Faith.  Solomon  of  England. 

Henry  VIII.  (of  England).  Blue-beard, 
Bluff  Ilal,  or  Burly  King  Harry,  De- 
fender of  tiie  Faith. 

Henry  de  Loudres.     Burnbill. 

Henry  the  Minstrel.     Blind  Harry. 

Heraclitus.     Weeping  Philosopher. 

Herbert,  George.  Sweet  Singer  of  the  Tem- 
ple. 

Herbert.  Henry  W.     Frank  Forester. 

Herodotus.  Father  of  History,  Father  of 
Lies. 

Hervey,  Lord.     Lord  Fanny,  Sporus. 

Hesiod.    Ascraean  Sage. 

Hilaire,  ifemile  Marc.     Marco  de  St.  Hilaire. 

Hildebrand.     See  Gregory  VII. 

Hill,  Sir  John.     Mrs.  Glasse  (?). 

Hippocrates.     Father  of  Medicine. 

Hobbes,  Thomas.  Philosopher  of  Malmes- 
bury. 

Hogg,  James.     Ettrick  Shepherd. 

Holland.     Batavia. 

Holland,  Josiah  G.     Timothy  Titcomb. 

Holland,  Philemon.     Translator  General. 

Holman,  James.     Blind  Traveler. 

Homer.  Father  of  Epic  Poetry,  Father  of 
Poetry,  Father  of  Song,  Ma>onidea, 
Melesigenes,  Swan  of  the  Meander. 

Hood,  Robin.     Locksley. 

Hooker,  Richard.    The  Judicioua. 


HOP 


433 


LEA 


Hopkins,  Matthew.     Witchfljider  General. 
Horueck,  Catliarine.     Little  Comedy. 
Horueck,  Mary.     Jessamv  Bride. 
IlDrne  Tooke.     See  Tookb.  John  Uorne. 
Uoris.     (Of  lleiuidall)  Gjallar  ;  (of  Orlando) 

OUvaut. 
Hor-ies.     See  Steed.s. 

llorteisiii-i,  Quiatus.     King  of  the  Courts. 
Ho^vird.  IjH-A  »Villiain.      Belted  Will. 
H  )Wird,  Sir  Joliu.     Jockey  of  Norfolk. 
It  ).ve,  Joliu.     Platonic  I'uritaii. 
ll).ve,  Riciirl,  Kirl.      Black  Dick. 
Hubert,  St.     Apostle  of  .\rdeiines. 
Hii  Ison,  Oeorge.     Raihviv  King. 
Hug  le.s.  Jolin.     Buller  of  Brizenose. 
Hume,  Jo.sepii.     Adversity  Hume. 

Illinois.  Garden  of  the  West,  Prairie  State, 
Sucker  State. 

IWinn^i  {SuUhern).     Egypt. 

Tndi  I.     In  I. 

In  li  ma.     Hoosier  State. 

In  Uinapoll-".     liiilroil  City. 

Imire-et- Loire.     Garden  of  France. 

lo.va.     Hivvkeve  Stite. 

Ireland.  Knerild  Isle,  Erin.  Green  Isle, 
Hiberuia,  Holy  Island,  Innisfail,  Isle 
of  Siiuts,  Old  Country,  Sacred  Island, 
Scotii,  Wolduid. 

Irenaeu-<.  St      Apostle  of  the  Gauls. 

Irving,  El.vard.     Doctor  Squintum. 

Irving.  \7a.sbington.  Diedrich  Knicker- 
bocker, Fr  ly  Antonio  .\gipida,  Geotfrey 
Crayon,  K^q.,  Jonitdan  Oldstyle. 

Irving  ( Wastiington),  Irv^ing  (William),  and 
Paulding  (James  K.).  I^auncelot  Lang- 
staff. 

Isabella  {of  Valois).    Little  Queen. 

Isaure,  Clemence.     Sappho  of  Toulouse. 

Ishmonie.     Petrified  City. 

Isocrates.     Old  M  in  Eloquent. 

Italy.     Garden  of  Europe. 

Iturbide,  Augusto.     Napoleon  of  Mexico. 

Jackson,  Andrew.     Old  Hickory. 
Jackson,  Thomas  J.     Stonewall  .Tackson. 
Jacobi,  Friedrich  Heinrich.    German  Plato. 
James  I.  {ofEaglanl).     English  Solomon, 

or  Solomon  of  England,  Iloyal  'Prentice 

in  the  Art  of  Poetry,  Scottish  Solomon. 
James  V.  {nf  Scotland).     Goodman  of  Bal- 

lengeigh. 
James  VI.  {of  Scotland).     See  James  I  (op 

E.ngland). 
James  and  John  (the  sons  of  Zebedee).     Bo- 

anersres,  or  Sons  of  Thunder. 
Janin.  Jules  Gabriel.     King  of  Feuilletons. 
Japan.     Cipingo,  Zipangi,  or  Zipangri  (?). 
Jasmin,  Jacques.     Barber  Poet,  Livst  of  the 

Troubadours. 
Java.     Queen  of  the  E.astem  Archipelago. 
Jebel  Zitoiit  and  Rock  of  Gibraltar.     Pillars 

of  Hercules. 
Jefferson,  Thomas.     Saire  of  Monticello. 
Jenings,  Mrs.  E.     Wycliffe  Lane. 
Jerusalem.      Citv  of  Divid,  City  of  Peace, 

City  of  the  Great  King,  Holy  City. 


Jews  ( Portm^uese,  of  the  fifteenth  eentury^ 
New  Christians. 

Joachim  II.  {o/ iirundenburg).  Hector  ot 
Germany. 

Joan  (  Countess  of  Salisbury,  and  afterward 
wife,  of  Edward  Ike  Black  Prince).  Fair 
Maid  of  Kent. 

Joan  of  Arc.     La  Pucelle.  Maid  of  Orleans. 

John  III.  (o/'  Briiiidi nhiinf).  Cicero  of 
Germany,  or  German  Cicero. 

John  V.  {of  Portugal).  Most  Faithful  Maj- 
esty. 

John,  St.     Beloved  Disciple. 

Johnson,  Anna  C.     Minnie  Myrtle. 

Johnson,  Esther.     Stella. 

Johnson,  Samuel.  Great  Cham  of  Litera- 
ture, Great  Moralist,  Leviathan  of  Liter- 
ature, Ursa  Major. 

Johnstone,  Mrs.     Meg  Dods. 

Jones,  Inigo.  English  Palladio,  English 
Vitruvius. 

Jones,  O.     Devonshire  Poet. 

Jones,  William.     Trinity  Jones. 

Jonson,  Ben.     Rare  Ben  Jonson. 

Judson,  Mrs.  Emily.     Fanny  Forester. 

Junot,  Andoche.     The  Tempest. 

Kansas.     Garden  of  the  West. 

Keats,  John.     Adonais. 

Kendal,  Duchess  of.     The  Maypole. 

Kentucky.       Dirk    and     Bloody    Ground, 

Corn-cracker. 
Keokuk.     Gate  City. 
Khaled.     Sword  of  God. 
King,  Edward.     Lycidas. 
Klopstock,     Frietlrich     Gottlieb.      German 

Milton. 
Know-nothings.     See  N.'Vtive  Americans. 
Knox,  John.     Apostle  of  the  Scottish  lle^ 

ormation. 
Koltzolf-Missalsky,   Princess.     See  Ghika, 

Helena. 
Kra-sicki,  Ignatius.     Polish  Voltaire. 
Kyle.     Coila. 
Kyrle,  John.     Man  of  Ross. 

Labe,  Louise.  Beautiful  Ropemaker,  Cap' 
tain  liOys. 

Labrador.     Estotiland. 

Lacepede,  Count.  (Bernard  G'rmain  "Eti- 
enne  de  la  Ville.)     King  of  Reptiles. 

La  Chaise,  Pere.     Tartuffe  (?). 

Lactixntius,  Lucius  Ccelius.  Christian 
Cicero. 

Lafayette,  Marquis  de.  Grandison  Crom- 
well. 

La  Marck,  William,  Count  of.  Wild  Boar 
of  Ardennes. 

Lamb.  Charles.     Elia. 

Lancaster,  House  of.     Red  Rose. 

Lances.     SeeSpK\RS. 

Landon,  F/etitia  Eliaibeth.     L.  E.  L. 

Lanoue,  Francois  de.     Iron  Arm. 

Ijaval,  Giles  de.     See  Giles  de  Laval. 

Law,  John.     Paper  King. 

Laynez.  Kodrigo.     The  Cid. 

Leanuont,  Thomas.    Thomas  the  Rhymer. 


LEE 


434 


MIR 


Le«,  Ann.     Mother  Ann. 

Lee,  Charles.     Junius  (.'). 

Lee,  Henry.     Light-hor.se  Harry. 

Lee.  Nathaniel.     Mad  I'oet. 

Legendre,  Louis.     Peasant  of  the  Danube. 

Leipsic  {Battle  of).     Battle  of  the  Natious. 

Leo  VJ.     The  Philosopher. 

Ijeopold (of  Aiihalt- Di-»,\aii).     Old  Dessauer. 

Lessinp,  Gotthold  Ephraim.  Father  of  Ger- 
man Literature. 

Le  Sueur,  Eustace.     French  Raphael. 

Leucate.     Lover's  Leap. 

Lever,  Charles  J .  Cornelius  0 "Dowd,  Harry 
Lorrequer. 

Lewes,  Mary  A.     George  Eliot. 

Lewis,  Matthew  G.     Monk  Lewis. 

Ligue,  Prince  de.     Prince  of  Coxcombs. 

Lilburne,  Jolin.     Free-born  John. 

Lille,  Alain  de.     Universal  Doctor. 

Lilly,  William.     Erra  Pater.  Sidrophel. 

Limerick.     City  of  the  Violated  Treaty. 

Lincoln,  .Abraham.     Kail-Splitter. 

Ijnd,  Jenny.  [Mme.  Goldschmidt.)  Swed- 
ish N'ightingale. 

Lindisfarne.     Holy  Island. 

Linley,  Miss.  [Mrs.  R.  B.  Sheridan.)  Maid 
of  Bath. 

Lippincott,  Sara  J.    Grace  Greenwood. 

liverpool  [Inhabitants  of).     Dicky  Sam. 

Lloyd,  Charles.     Junius  (.'). 

Lockhart,  John  G.  Peter  Morris,  William 
W'astle. 

Lockhart,  John  Hugh.     Hugh  Little- John. 

Lombard,  Peter.     Master  of  Sentences. 

London.  City  of  Masts.  Cockagne.  Lubber- 
land,  Modern  Babylon,  Trinovant  or 
Trinovantum,  Weissnichtwo  (?). 

London  University.     Stinkomalee. 

Londres.  Henry  de.  See  Hexey  de  Londees. 

Longinus,  Caius  Cassius.  See  Cassids, 
C.vnjs. 

Lorenzo  de'  Medici.  See  Medici,  Lorenzo 
de'. 

TiOuis  V.  [nf  France).     TiC  Faineant. 

Louis  YTII.     Coeur  de  Lion. 

Louis  IX.  ( Si.  Louis).  Solomon  of  France, 
or  French  Solomon. 

Louis  XI.    Most  Christian  King,  or  Majesty. 

Louis  XIT.     Father  of  his  People. 

Louis  XIV.  Le  Grand  Monarque,  Lewis 
Baboon. 

Louis  XVT.     M.  Veto. 

Louis  XVIII.     King  of  England's  Viceroy. 

Louisiana.     Creole  State. 

Louis  Napoleon.     See  N.ipoleon  III. 

Louis  Philippe.  Citizen  King,  Napoleon  of 
Peace. 

liOuisvllle.     Fall  City. 

Lowell.     City  of  Spindles. 

Lowell,  James  R.     Ho«ea  Biglow. 

Luke,  St.     Beloved  Physician. 

Lulle.  or  Lully,  Raymond.  Illuminated 
Doctor. 

Lytton,  Edward  Robert.  See  Bclwer  IjrT- 
TON,  Edward  Robert. 

Uacdonald,  or  Mac  lau.    Glencoe. 


Macdonald  (o/"G/fng-arri/).     Glengarry. 
Macgregor,  Robert.     R/)b  Roy. 
Mackenzie,  Henry.     Addison  of  the  North, 

Man  of  Feeling. 
Maerlant,  Jakob.     Father  of  Dutch  Poetry. 
Maginn,    Willitm.     Modern    Rabelais,    Sil 

Morgan  Odohertv. 
Mahomet.     Macon,  Mahoun,  or  Mahound. 
Mahouy,  Francis.     Father  Prout. 
Maine.      Lumber  State,  Pine-tree  State. 
Mairone,  Francois  de.     Illuminated  Doctor- 
Manuel  I.  [of  Trebizond).     Great  Captain. 
Margaret  [daughter  of  Eric  II.  of  Norway). 

Maid,  or  Fair  Maid,  of  Norway. 
Margaret  [of  Denmark).     Semiramis  of  the 

North. 
Maria  [daughter  of  Robert.,  king  of  Naples). 

Fiammetta(?). 
Marie  Antoinette.     Mme.  Veto. 
Marignauo  ( Buttle  of ).    Battle  of  the  Giants. 
Marius,  Caius.     Third  Founder  of  Rome. 
Marlborough,  Duchess  of.  ( Sarah  Churchill.) 

Atossa,  Mrs.  Freeman. 
Marlborough,  Duke  of.     [John   Churchill.) 

Handsome  Englishman,  Humphrey  Ho- 
cus. 
Martin  (Theodore)  and  Aytoun(  William  E.). 

Bon  Gaultier. 
Marvell,  Andrew.     British  Aristides. 
Mary  I.  (of  England).     Bloody  Mary. 
Mary  [of  Modena).     Queen  of  Tears. 
Massachusetts.     Bay  State. 
Mathew,  Theobald.    Apostle  of  Temperance. 
Matilda  ( Plantagenet).     Lady  of  England. 
Matthioli.    Count.      Man    with    the    Iron 

Mask  (?). 
Maura,  Sta.     See  Sta.  Maura. 
Maximilian  I.  (of  Germnny).     Last  of  the 

Knights.  Pochi  Danari,  Theuerdauk. 
Mecca.     Holy  City. 

Medici,  Cosmo  de".     Father  of  his  Country. 
Medici,  Lorenzo  de'.     Father  of  I^etters. 
Medina.     City  of  the  Prophet.  Holy  City. 
Melanchthon,  Philip.  Teacher  of  Germam  . 
Melendez  Valdes,  Juan.     Restorer  of  Par- 

nassus. 
Mena,  Juan  de.     Spanish  Ennius. 
Menedemus.     Eretrian  Bull. 
Meteyard,  Elizji.     Silverpen. 
Michigan  (State).     Lake  State,  Wolyerine 

State. 
Mlckiewicz,  Adam.     Polish  Bvron. 
Middleton,  John.     Child  of  Hale. 
Middleton,  Richard.      Profound,  or  Solid, 

Doctor. 
Midwav   Oak  (Battle   of).     Battle  of   tha 

Thirty. 
Milan.     Little  Pari.s. 
Milburn,  William  H.     Blind  Preacher. 
Milky  Way.     Watling  Street. 
Miller.  .Joseph.     Father  of  .Tests. 
Miloradowitch,  Michael.     Russian  Murat. 
Mind,  Godefmi.     Raphael  of  Cats. 
Miraheau,   M.arquis  de.     (  Victor  Riquetti\ 

Friend  of  Man. 
Mirabeau.  Viscount  de.     [Boniface  RiqueU 

ti.)    Barrel-Mirabeau. 


MIS 


435 


PHI 


Mississippi  (  River).     Father  of  Waters. 
Mississippi  (t^tate).     Bayou  State. 
Mi.s.-issippi  (  VaLUy).     Garden  of  tiie  World. 
Mitchel,  Oriiisby  M.     Old  Stars. 
Mitchell,  Donald  (J.     Ik  Marvel. 
Mitchell,  \Silliaui.   Great Tinclarian Doctor. 
Wot;ridge,  George.     Old  Hampbrey. 
i»Ioir,  David  M.     Delta. 
MouDiouth,   James,    Duke    of.      Absalom, 

Protestant  Duke. 
Montbars.    The  Exterminator. 
Montluc,  Blaise  de.     Koyalist  Butcher. 
Montmorency,    Anne,    Duke    of.     French 

Fabius. 
Montreal.     Island  City. 
Montrose,  Marquis  of.    See  Graham,  James. 
Moore,  Thomas.     Anacreon  Moore,  Thomas 

Brown  the  Younger,  Thomas  Little. 
Mora  tin,     Leandro     Fernandez.       Spanish 

Moliere. 
Mornay,  Philippe  de.    Huguenot  Pope. 
Morning  Post  (Lo?j«/on).     Jeames. 
Morris,  James  M.     K.  N.  Pepper. 
Morrison,  Lieut.     Zadkiel. 
Mucius,  Caius.     Scaevola. 
Murat,   Joachim.     Handsome  Swordsman, 

King  Franconi. 
Murray,  or  Moray,  Earl  of.  {James  Stewart.) 

Good  Regent. 
Murray,  John.     Emperor  of  the  West. 

Naples.    Regno. 

Napoleon  III.  {Louis  Napoleon.)  Badin- 
guet,  Boustrapa. 

Napoleon,  Prince.  {Napoleon  Joseph  Charles 
Bonaparte .)     Prince  Plon-plon. 

Napoleon  Bonaparte.  See  Bonaparte,  Na- 
poleon. 

jVash,  Richard.     King  of  Bath. 

Nashville.     City  of  Rocks. 

Nasmyth,  Patrick,  or  Peter.  English  Hob- 
bema. 

>l«».tive  Americans.  Hindoos,  Know-noth- 
ings. Sam. 

Neal,  John.    Jehu  O'Cataract. 

Neal,  Sir  Paul.     Sidrophel  (?). 

Negroes.     CufFee,  Quashee,  Sambo. 

Nelson,  Horatio.    Hero  of  the  Nile. 

Neo-Csesarea,  Gregory  of.     See  Gregory  op 

Neo  CiESAREA. 

Nevil,  Richard.     See  Warwick,  Earl  of. 

Newell,  Robert  H.     Orpheus  C.  Kerr. 

New  Brunswick  {Inhabitants  of).  Blue- 
Noses. 

New  England  and  Nnva  Scotia.     Drogio. 

New  Hampshire.     Granite  State. 

New  Haven.     City  of  Elms,  or  Elm  City. 

New  Orleans.     Crescent  City. 

New  York  (  Citi^).  Empire  City,  Gotham. 
New  Amsterdam. 

New  York  ( State).  Empire  State,  Excelsior 
State,  New  Netherlands. 

Nev.  Marshal.     Bravest  of  the  Brave. 

Nicholas.  St.     Boy-bishop,  Kriss  Kringle. 

Nifhnlls,  Mrs.     See  Bront6.  Charlotte. 

Nightingale,  Florence.     St.  Filomena. 

Ninian,  St.    Apostle  of  the  Picts, 


Norbury,  Earl  of.     Hanging  Judge. 

Normandy.     Land  of  Wisdom. 

Normandy,  Robert,  Duke  of.  Robert,  or 
Robin,  the  Devil. 

Northallerton  {Battle  of).  Battle  of  the 
Standard. 

North  Carolina.  Old  North  State,  Turpen- 
tine State. 

Norway  and  Sweden.     Scandinavia. 

Norwich,  Bishop  of.     See  Spenser,  Henrt. 

Nottingham,  Lord.     See  Finch,  Heneaoe. 

Nova  Scotia.     Acadia. 

Nova  Scotia  and  New  England.     Drogio. 

Nova  Scotians  (  r/(e).    Blue-Noses. 

Occam,  William  of.  Invincible  Doctor,  Sin- 
gular Doctor,  Venerable  Initiator. 

O'Connell,  Daniel.  Irish  Agitator,  The  Lib- 
erator. 

Ohio  ( State).     Buckeye  State. 

Oldham,  John.     English  Juvenal. 

Omar  I.     Emperor  of  Believers. 

Orleans  { Battle  of).    Battle  of  the  Herrings. 

Orleans,  Louis  Philippe  Joseph,  Duke  of. 
Egalite. 

Orpheus.     Father  of  Poetry. 

Otterburn  {Battle  of).     Chevy  Chase  (?). 

Oxford,  Earl  of.     See  Harley,  Robert. 

Pacific  Ocean.     South  Sea. 

Paige,  Eldridge  F.     Dow,  Jr. 

Pala;ologus,    Andronicus.      Father  of  his 

Country. 
Palestine.     Holy  Land. 
Palestine  {Western).     Land  of  Promise,  or 

Promised  Land. 
Palestrina,  Giambattista  Pietro  Aloisio  da. 

Father  of  Music. 
Palmerston,  Lord.     {Henry  John   Temple.) 

Pam. 
Paoli,  Pasquale  de.    Corsica  Paoli. 
Paris.     Lutetia. 
Parrhasius.     King  of  Painters. 
Par  ton,  Sarah  P.     Fanny  Fern. 
Pafeerson,  Robert.     Old  Mortality 
Patrick,  St.    Apostle  of  Ireland. 
Paul,  St.     Apostle  of  the  Gentiles,  Prince 

of  the  Apostles. 
Paulding,  James  K.    See  Irving. 
Peel,  Sir  Robert.     Orange-Peel. 
Pekin.     Cambalu. 

Pendleton,  Rev.  Mr.     Vicar  of  Bray  (?)- 
Pennsylvania.     Key-stone  State. 
Penrose,  Elizabeth.     Mrs.  Markham. 
Penry,  or  Ap  Henry,  John.     Martin  Mar- 
Prelate  (?). 
Pepin  the  Short  {of  France).  Most  Christian 

King,  or  Majesty. 
Percy,  Harry.     Hotspur. 
Perrers,  or  Pierce,  Alice.    Lady  of  the  Sun- 
Perth.     Fair  City. 
Peter.  St.    Prince  of  the  Apostlei. 
Pefersburg.     Cockade  City. 
Ve7.?ji,.  Michele.     Fra  Diavolo. 
Philadelphia.      City    of    Brotherly    LoTe, 

Quaker   City. 
Philip  of  Anjou.    See  Anjod,  Dcki  o». 


PHI 


436 


SCO 


Phillips,  George  S.     January  Searle. 

Phillips,  Kathariue.  The  Matchless,  or  In- 
comparable, Orinda. 

Philo  JuJjuus.     Jewisli  Plato. 

Philopoeiuen.     Last  of  the  Greeks. 

Pierce,  Alice.     See  Peiirers,  Alice. 

Pii^alle.  Jean  Baptiste.     French  Phidiaa. 

Pinkerton,  John.     Robert  Heron. 

Pinto,  Ferdinand  Meudez.     Prince  of  Liars. 

Pitt,  William.  (Lonl  Chatham.)  Great 
Coium  >ner,  Junius  (?). 

Pitt-sburg.     Iron  City,  Smoky  City. 

Plantagenet,  Edith.     Fair  M.iid  of  Anjou. 

Plantagenet,  Humphrey.  Good  Duke  Hum- 
phrey. 

Plant  igenet,  Matilda.     Lady  of  England. 

Plato.     Athenian  Bee. 

Plymoutn  Colony.     Old  Colony. 

Poland.     Sarmatia. 

Pole,  Michael  de  la.     Belove  i  Merchant. 

Poniatowski,  Joseph.     Polish  Bayard. 

Pope(  The).  Lord  Peter,  Man  of  Sin,  Servant 
of  the  Servants  of  God,  Vicar  of  Christ. 

Pope,  Alexander.     Bard  of  Twickenham. 

Porphyry.     The  Philosopher. 

Portland  {Maine).     Forest  City. 

Portinan  and  Grosvenor  Square  Districts 
{Lon'lon).    Tyburaia. 

Portu.^al.     Lusitania. 

Pot,  Philippe.     Cicero's  Mouth. 

Powis,  Lucia.     Castara. 

Pratt,  Samuel  J.     Courtney  Melmoth. 

Presbyterians  {  The).     Blue-Skins. 

Procter,  Bryan  \V.     Barry  Cornwall. 

Puget,  Pierre.     Michael  Anirelo  of  France. 

Pushkin.  Alexander  Sergeivitch.  Russian 
Byron. 

Putnam,  Israel.     Old  Put. 

Pym,  John.     King  Pym. 

Pythagoras.   Samian  Sage,  or  Sage  of  Samos. 

Quakers,  or  Friends.     Seekers. 
Quebec.     Gibraltar  of  America. 
Queen's  Camel.     Camelot. 

Rabelais,  Francois.  Alcofribaa  Nasier,  Cu- 
rate of  Meudon,  Father  of  Ridicule. 

Rileigh,  Sir  Walter.    Shepherd  of  the  Ocean. 

Ramsay,  Allan.     Scottish  Theocritus. 

Rann,  John.     Sixteen-striiig  Jack. 

Rathbone,  Mrs.  Richard.     Mary  Powell. 

Redden,  Laura  C.     Howard  Glyndon. 

Rene  d'.\.njou.     Good  King  Rene. 

Rhode  Island.     Little  Khody. 

Ricardus  Corinensis.  See  Rickard  op  Ciren- 
cester. 

Rich,  John.     Lun. 

Rich,  Lady.     See  Deverectx.  Penelope. 

Richard  I.  (of  England).  Coeur  de  Leon, 
IjC  Noir  Faineant. 

Richard  II.  {of  England).  Defender  of  the 
Faith. 

Richard  of  Cirencester.  Monk  of  Westmin- 
ster. 

Richter,  Jean  Paul  Friedrich.  Jean  Paul, 
The  Only. 

Rimioi,  Gregory  of.    See  GaEaoRY  op  Rimini. 


Roberts,  John.    Junius  (?). 
Robin  liood      See  Hood.  Uobin. 
Robinson,  Frederick.      See  Goderich,  Vi* 

COU.NT. 

Robiu.son,  Mary.     Beauty  of  Buttermere. 

Robinson,  .Mary  Darby.  English  Sappho, 
Perdita. 

Robinson,  Mrs.  Edward.     Talvi. 

Kochesber  (  Sew  York).     Flour  City. 

Rochester,  Earl  of.  {John  WUmot.)  Virgin 
Modesty. 

Roderick.     La.st  of  the  Goths. 

Rogers,  Samuel.     Bard  of  Memory. 

Roman  Catholic  Church.  Mystical  Baby- 
lon, Scarlet  Woman. 

Romanus,  jEgidius.     Well-founded  Doctor, 

Rome.  Eternal  City,  Imperial  City,  Mis- 
tress of  the  World,  Namele.>s  City, 
Queen  of  Cities,  Seven-hilled  City. 

Ronsard,  Pierre  de.     Prince  of  the  Ode. 

Rosenhagen,  Rev.  J.     Junius  (?). 

Rousseau,  Jean  Jacques.  Jean  Jacques 
J.  J. 

Royal  Marines.     Mistress  Roper. 

Rigen.     Holy  Island. 

Rupert,  Prince.     Mad  Cavalier. 

Russell,  Lord  John.  {Earl  Russell.)  Finalit] 
John. 

Russia.     Northern  Bear,  Northern  Giant. 

Russians  (  The).     Ivan  Ivanovitch. 

Ruysbroek,  Jean.  Divine  Doctor,  Ecstatic 
Doctor. 

Sacheverell,  Lucv.    Lucasta  (?). 

Sackville,  Lord  George.     Junius  (?). 

St.  Hilaire,  Comte  de.  {Louis  Vincent  Joseph 
Le  Blond.)     Roland  of  the  Army. 

St.  iMais  {Missouri).     Mound  City. 

St.  Martin,  Louis  Claude  de.  Philosopher 
of  the  Unknown. 

St.  Pour^ain.  Durand  de.  See  Ddrand  D1 
St.  Pourcain. 

Sampson,  Agnes.     See  Simpson,  Aqnes. 

Sandwich.  John,  Ix)rd.     Jemmy  Twitcher. 

Sta.  Maura.     Lover's  I^eap. 

Sarpi,  Peter.     Father  Paul. 

Satan.  Belial,  Prince  of  Darkness,  Prince 
of  the  Power  of  the  Air.     See  Devil. 

Saunders,  David.  Shepherd  of  Salisbury 
Plain. 

Savannah.     Forest  City. 

Saxony  {  Snuth-^astfrn).  Saxon  Switzerland. 

Scanderbeg.      White  Devil  of  Wallarhia. 

Schwerin.  Count  von.     Little  Marlborough. 

Scotch  (  The).  Nation  of  Gentlemen,  Sawney. 

Scotland.  Albania  or  Albany,  .\lbvn.  Cale- 
don  or  Caledonia,  Coila,  Land  of  Cakes, 
North  Britain,  Scotia. 

Scott,  .\dam.     King  of  the  Border. 

Scott,  .John.     See  Eudon.  Lord. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  Border  Minstrel,  or  Min- 
strel of  the  Border,  Captain  Cuthbert 
Clutlerhuck,  Chrvstal  Croftangry, 
6re.at  Magicitn.  Great  Unknown,  .lede- 
diah  Cleishhotham,  Laurence  Temple- 
ton.  Malachi  Mala^rowftier,  Peter  Pat» 
tiesou,  Wizard  of  the  North. 


SCO 


437 


THO 


Scotus,  Duns.     See  Duns  Scotus. 

Scoville,  Joseph  A.     Walter  Barrett,  Clerk. 

Settle,  Elkanah.     Doeg. 

Seward,  Anna.     Swan  of  Lichfield. 

Seymour,  Charles.  (Duke  of  Somerset.) 
Froud  Duke. 

Shadwell,  Thomas.     Mac  Flecknoe. 

Shaftesbury,  Earl  of.     Achitophel. 

Shakespeare,  NV^illiain.  Bard  of  Avon, 
Sweet  Swan  of  Avon. 

Sharp,  Samuel.    Mundungus. 

Sharpe,  Richard.     Conversation  Sharpe. 

Shelburne,  Lord.     Malagrida. 

Shelley,  Percy  B.     Poet  of  Poets. 

Sheppard,  Elizabeth  S.     Mnie.  Kinker. 

Shield  of  Arthur.     Pridwin. 

Sicily.    Garden  of  Italy.  Granary  of  Europe. 

Sicinius  Dentatus.     Roman  Achilles. 

Sidmouth,  Viscount.  (Henry  Addington.) 
The  Doctor. 

Sidney,  Lady  Dorothea.     Sacharlssa. 

Sidney,  Sir  Philip.  Astrophel,  English 
Petrarch,  Philisides. 

Sigismund  (emperor  of  Germany).  Super 
Graramaticam. 

Simmons,  Thomas.     Man  of  Blood. 

Simpson,  Agnes.     Wise  Wife  of  Keith. 

Sjoberg,  Erik.     Vitalis. 

Smith,  Seba.     Jack  Downing. 

Smith,  Sydney.     Peter  Plymley. 

Smith,  William.  Father  of  English  Geology. 

Smolensk.     Key  of  Russia. 

Smollett.  Tobias.     Smelfungus. 

Society  of  Medical  Observation  (in  Paris). 
Mutual  Admiration  Society. 

Sodom  and  Gomorrah.     Cities  of  the  Plain. 

Solomon.     The  Preacher. 

Somerset,  Duke  of.    See  Seymour,  Charles. 

Sophie  Charlotte  (of  Prussia).  Republican 
Queen. 

Sophocles.     Attic  Bee,  Attic  Homer. 

Soult.  Marshal.     Old  Fox. 

South  Carolina.     Palmetto  State. 

Southern  States  (  U.  S.).     Dixie. 

Southey,  Robert.  Abel  Shufflebottom,  Es- 
priella. 

Spain.     Hispania,  Iberia. 

Sparta  and  Athens.  The  Two  Eyes  of 
Greece. 

Spears.  (Of  Arthur)  Ron  ;  (of  Odin)  Gung- 
nir. 

Spenser,  Edmund.  Colin  Clout,  Prince  of 
Poets. 

Spenser,  Henry.  (Bishop  of  Norwich.) 
Fiorhting  Prelate. 

Springfield  (Illinois).     Flower  Citv. 

Spurzheim.  John  Gaspar.     Donst«rswivel. 

Steeds.  (Of  Alexander  the  Great)  Buceph- 
alus ;  (of  Apollo  and  the  Muses)  Peg- 
asus; (of  Argalia)  Rahicano ;  (of  the 
four  sons  of  Aymon)  Bayard  ;  (of  Bevis 
of  Southampton)  ArTimlpl  ;  (of  the  Cid) 
Bavieca  ;  (of  Don  Quixote)  Aligero  Cla- 
vileno  and  Rozinante  ;  (of  .Sir  Launce- 
lot  Greaves)  Bronzomarte  :  (of  Moham- 
med) Al  Borak  ;  (of  Odin)  Sleipnir;  (oi 
Orlando)  BrigUadoro  and  Vegliantiuo ; 


(of  Rinaldo)  Bayard ;  (of  Rugglero,  t/> 
Rogero)  Frontiuo  ;  (of  Sieglrie(i)Graut , 
(of  Tristram)  Pas.xetreul. 

Steele,  Sir  Richard     Nestor  Ironside. 

Sterling,  Edsvard.     Vetus. 

Sterne,  Lawrence.  The  Bramin,  English 
Rabelais. 

Stevenson,  John  II.     Lord  of  Crazy  Castle. 

Stewart,  James.  See  Murray,  or  Moray, 
Earl  of. 

Stewart,  John.     Walking  Stewart. 

Stoddart,  John.     Doctor  Slop. 

Stowe,  Harriet  B.    Cliristopher  Crowfield. 

Strother,  David  H.     Porte-Crayon. 

Stuart,  Charles  Edward.  Young  Chevalier, 
Younger  Pretender. 

Stuart,  James  Francis  Edward.  Chevalier 
de  St.  George,  Elder  Pretender. 

Sturle.><on,  Snorro.     Northern  Herodotus. 

Sunderland,  Anne,  Countess  of.  Little 
Whig. 

Swain,  Charles.     Manchester  Poet. 

Sweden  and  Norway.     Scandinavia. 

Swift,  Jonathan.  Cadenus,  Dean  of  St. 
Patrick's,  English  Rabelais,  Presto ; 
M.  B.,  Drapier. 

Swiss  (  The).     Colin  Tampon. 

Switzerland.     Helvetia. 

Swords.  (Of  Agricane)  Tranchera  ;  (of  Ar- 
thur) Caliburn,  or  Excalibar  ;  (of  Bevis 
of  Southampton)  Morglay  ;  (of  Bragga- 
dochio)  Sanglamore  ;  (of  Charlemagne) 
La  Joyeuse  ;  (of  the  Cid)  Colada  and 
Tizona  ;  (of  Doolin  of  Mayence)  Merveil- 
leuse  ;  (of  Edward  the  Confe.ssor)  Cur- 
tana  ;  (of  Frithiof)  Angurvardel ;  (of 
Ilako  I.)  Quern-biter;  (of  Lancelot  of 
the  Lake)  Aroundight ;  (of  Ogier  le 
Danois)  Curtana  ;  (of  Orlando,  or  Ro- 
land) Durandal,  or  Durlindana  ;  (of  Sir 
Otuel)  Corrouge  ;  (of  Rinaldo)  Fusberta ; 
(of  Ruggiero,  or  Rogero)  Balisardo  :  (of 
Siegfried)  Balmung,  Gram,  Mimung ; 
(of  Thoralf  Skolinson)  Foot-breadth; 
(of  Wittich)  Mimung. 

Sylvester,  Joshua.     The  Silver-tongued. 

Sym,  Robert.     Timothy  Tickler. 

Symmonds,  John.     Spanish  Jack. 

Symonds,  Symon.     A'icar  of  Bray  (?). 

Syrus,  Ephraem.     Prophet  of  the  Syrians. 

Tamerlane.    Prince  of  Destruction. 

Tanunenund.     St.  Tammanv. 

TuiXer  (Editor  of  the).     Isaac  Bickerstaff. 

Tauler,  John.     Illnniinated  Doctor. 

Taylor,  Jeremy.     Shakespeare  of  Divines. 

Taylor.  John.     Water-poet. 

Taylor,  Zachary.     Rough  and  Ready. 

Teilez,  Gabriel.     Tirso  de  Molina. 

Temple,  Lord.     (Rir/iard  Grenville .)     Lord 

Gawky,  Tidrty-doll. 
Terpander.     Father  of  Greek  Music. 
Texas.     Lnne-Strir  State. 
Thackeray,  William  M.    George  Fitz-Boodle, 

Michael  Angelo  Tit.marsh. 
Tbom'ison,    MortiiD«r.      Q,    K«    Philander 


THO 


438 


ZOR 


Thomson,  J.  C.     Philip  Wharton. 

Thomson,  Mrs.  Anthony  T.  Grace  Wharton. 

Throckmorton,  or  Throgmorton,  Job.  Mar- 
tin Mar-Prelate  (.')• 

Times,  (  The  London).     The  Thunderer. 

Tiuiour.     See  Tamerlane. 

Titus  (emptror  of  Home).  Delight  of  Man- 
kind. 

Tooke.  .lohn  Home.  Philosopher  of  Wim- 
bledon. 

Trinity  College  (  Dublin).     Silent  Sister. 

Trowbridge,  J.  T.     Paul  Creyton. 

Troy.     Ilium,  or  Ilion. 

Tucker,  Abraham.     Edward  Search. 

Turkey.     Sick  Man  of  the  East. 

Tyrconnel.     Lying  Dick  Talbot. 

Udall,  John.     Martin  Mar-Prelate  (?). 
Uncas.     Last  of  the  Mohicans. 
United  States.     Columbia,  Uncle  Sam. 
United  States  (Frigate).     Old  Wagon. 
United  States  {People  uf).      Brother  Jona- 
than. 
United  States  Flag.     Old  Glory. 
Utlier.     Pendragou. 

Van  Buren,  Martin.     Little  Magician. 

Vanhomrigh,  Esther.     Vauessa. 

Varro,  Marcus  Terentius.     Most  Learned  of 

the  Romans. 
Varro,  William.     Thorough  Doctor. 
Vaughan,  Henry.     The  Silurist. 
Vaiighan,  Thomas.     Dangle. 
Vendome  Beaufort,  Francois  de.     King  of 

the  Markets. 
Venice.     Bride  of  the  Sea. 
Vermont.     Green-Mountain  State. 
Vernon,  Admiral  p]dward.     Old  Grog. 
Victoria,    or    Vlctorina.      Mother    of    the 

Camps. 
Vida,  Marco  Girolamo.     Christian  VirgiL 
Villiers,  George.  See  Buckingham,  Duke  of. 
Virgil.     Mantuan  Swan. 
Virginia.     Mother  of  Presidents,  Mother  of 

States,  Old  Dominion. 
Vivian.  Lady  of  the  Lake. 
Voltaire,    Francois.     Apostle  of  Infidelity, 

Philosopher  of  Ferney. 

Wales.     Cambria. 

Wales,  Edward,  Prince  of.  See  Edward, 
Prince  of  Wales. 

Walker,  John.     Elocution  Walker. 

Walker,  John.     Hookey  Walker. 

Walpole,  Sir  Robert.  Robin  Blueatring, 
Grand  Corrupter. 

Walton,  Izaak.     Father  of  Angling. 

Warner,  Snsan.     Elizabeth  Wetherell. 

Warwick.  Earl  of.  {Richard  Nevil.)  King- 
maker. 

Warwick  and  Eccleston  Sauare  Districts 
( London).     CubitopoUri,  Mesopotamia. 

Waryng,  Jane.    Varina. 


Washington.  City  of  Magnificent  Dis- 
tances. 

Washington,  George.  American  Fabius, 
Father  of  his  Country. 

Wayne,  Anthony.     Mad  Anthony. 

Weijster,  Daniel.  Expounder  of  the  Con- 
stitution. 

Wedell,  C.  H.     Leonidas  Wedell. 

Wellington,  Duke  of.  {Arthur  Wellesley.) 
Great  Duke,  Iron  Duke,  Old  Douro. 

Welsh  {The).     Taffy. 

Western  Hemisphere.     New  World. 

Western  Reserve.     New  Connecticut. 

Westminster  Review.     Breeches  Review. 

West  Virginia  { Northern ).    The  Pan-handl«. 

AVhite,  Jolin.     Century  White. 

White,  Rev.  John.  Patriarch  of  Dorchei- 
ter. 

Whitefriars.     Alsatia. 

White  Mountains.     Crystal  Hills. 

Whitfield,  Geoi-ge.     Doctor  Squintum. 

Whittier,  John  Greenleaf.     Quaker  Poet. 

Wieland,  Christoph  Martin.  German  Vol- 
taire. 

Wilbrord,  or  Willibrod,  St.  Apostle  of  the 
Frisians. 

Wild,  Henry.  Arabian  Tailor,  Learned 
Tailor. 

Wilkes,  John.     Junius  (?). 

Wilkie,  Sir  David.     Scottish  Teniers. 

Wilkie,  William.     Scottish  Homer. 

William  I.  {of  England).     The  Conqueror. 

William  IV.     Sailor  King. 

Williams,  John.     Tony  Pasquin. 

Williams,  Rev.  John.     Redeemed  Captive. 

Williams,  Renwick.     The  Monster. 

Wilniot,  John.     See  Rochester.  Earl  of. 

Wil-son.  John.  Christopher,  or  Kit,  North, 
Mordecai  Mullion. 

Winchcomb.  John.     Jack  of  Newbury- 

AVinchester.     Camelot  (?). 

Wisconsin.     Badger  State. 

Wi.«e.  Henry  A.     Harry  Gringo. 

Wolcott,  John.     Peter  Pindar. 

Worcestershire.     Garden  of  England. 

Wordsworth,  William.  Bard  of  Rydal 
Mount. 

Wycliffe,  John  de.  Evangelical,  or  Gospel, 
Doctor,  Morning  Star  of  the  Reforma- 
tion. 

Xavier,  St.  Francis.    Apostle  to  the  Indies. 
Xenophon.     Attic  Muse,  Muse  of  Greece. 

Yellow  Fever.     Yellow  Jack. 

York,  Cecily,  Duchess  of.     White  Rose  of 

Raby. 
York,  Frederick,  Duke  of.     Soldiers'  Friend. 
York,  House  of.     AMiite  Rose. 

Zaragoza,  Agustina.     Maid  of  Saragossa. 
Zenobia.     Queen  of  the  East. 
Zoroaster.    Bactrian  Sage. 


INDEX 


OF  THE  REAL  NAMES  OF  PERSONS,  PLACES,  ETC.,  WHOSE 
NICKNAMES,  PSEUDONYMS,  OR  POPULAR  APPELLATIONS, 
ARE  GIVEN   IN  THE  PRECEl^ING  APPENDIX. 


Akenside,   Mark.     Bard  of  the   Imagina 

tion. 
Amand,  St.     Apostle  of  the  Netherlands. 
Amien.s.     Little  Venice. 
Amsterdam.     Venice  of  the  North. 
Anastasius,  St.     Apostle  of  Hungary. 
Anderson,  Robert.     Cumbrian  Poet. 
Ape  lies.     Prince  of  Painters. 
Argles,  Margaret.     The  Duchess. 
Aristophanes      Prince  of  Ancient  Comedy. 
Austin,  Benjamin.    Old  South.    Honestas. 

Bailey,  James  M.     Danbury  News  Man. 
Baldung,  Hans.     Hans  Grlin. 
Barnum,  P.  T.     Prince  of  Showmen. 
Bible,     book  of  Books.     Book  of  Life. 
Blanchard,  Jacques.     French  Titian. 
Boehaave.     Voltaire  of  Science. 
Bunyan,  John.     Inspired  Tinker. 
Burhage,  Richard.     English  Roscius. 
Burns,  Kobert.     Ayrshire  Bard  or  Plough- 
man. 

Carlyle,  Thomas.     Censor  of  the  Age. 
Caross,  Mark.     Laird  of  Cockpen. 
Casas,  Las.     Apostle  of  the  Indians. 
Choiseul-Amboise,   Duke    de.      Driver    of 

Europe 
Chrvsostom.    Golden-mouthed  Doctor. 
Cicero.     TuUy. 

<;iniabue.     Father  of  Modern  Painting. 
Clark   Charles  H.     Max  Adeler. 
Clarke,  Rebecca  Sophie.     Sophie  May. 
Clemens,  Samuel  L.     Mark  Twain. 
Cohdeu,  Richard.    Apostle  of  Free  Trade. 
CofTin,  C.  C.     Carleton. 
Coinestor,  Petrus.     Master  of  History. 
Cornelia.     Mother  of  the  Gracchi. 
Cowper,  William.     Domestic  Poet. 
Crabbe,  George.     Poet  of  the  Poor. 

Derbs',  Lord.     Rupert  of  Debate. 
De-marets,  Samuel.     Litt.e  Preacher. 
Desportes,  Philippe.     French  Tibullus. 
Dioi^enes  the  Cynic.     Mad  Socrates. 
DodiTson,  V,.  L.     Lewis  ('arroll. 
Dniglas,  Sir  James.     Good  Sir  James. 
Dovie,  Mr.     H.  B. 
Dryden.Johu.     Glorious  John. 


Edward  I.     Hammer  of   the  Scottish  Na* 

tion.     Long-Shanks. 
Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo.     Sage  of  Concord. 

Fargus,  Frederick  J.     Hugh  Conway. 
Feyjoo  or  Feijoo  y  Montenegro.     Spanish 

Addison. 
Fosdick,  Charles  A.     Harry  Castlemon. 
Franklin,  Benjamin.     Nestor  of  America, 
Frederick  William.     Unser  Fritz. 
Frumentius,  St.     Apostle  of  Ethiopia. 
Fuller,  Andrew.     Franklin  of  Theology. 

Garibaldi.     Liberator  of  Italy. 

Gay,  John,     .^sop  of  England. 

Gordon,  Charles  George.     Chinese  Gordon. 

Gordon,  William.     People's  Friend, 

Goujon,  Jean.     Correggio  of  Sculptors. 

Grand  Old  Man.     Gladstone. 

Gustavus  Adolphus.     Snow  King. 

Hale,  Edward  Everett.  Col.  Frederic  Ing- 
ham. 

Hannibal.     Carthaginian  Lion. 

Hammond,  Anthony.     Silver-tongued. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.     Uncle  Remus. 

Harris,  Samuel.     Apostle  of  Virginia. 

Hatton,  Sir  Christopher.  Dancing  Chan- 
cellor. 

Hector,  Mrs.  Annie  F.     Mrs.  Alexander 

Heinecken,  Christian  H.  Infant  of  Lii- 
beck. 

Hilary,  St.     Malleus  Arianorum. 

HoUey,  Marietta.     Josiah  Allen's  wife. 

Holmes,  0.  W.  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast 
Table. 

Homer.  Blind  Bard.  Blind  old  man  of 
Scio's  rocky  isle.     Maeonian  Swan. 

Hooker,  Joseph.     Fighting  Joe. 

Jackson,  Helen  M.  (formerly  Mrs.  Hunt). 

H.  H. 
Jones,  Henry.    Cavendish. 
Juan  de  Avila.     Apostle  of  Andalusia. 

Keddie,  Henrietta.     Sarah  Tytler. 
Kingsley,  Charles.     Chartist  Clergyman. 

La  Fontaine,  Jean  de.     .£sop  of  France 


440 


INDEX. 


Leland,  Oharles  O.     Hans  Breitmann. 
LeM-aille,  (^iitherine.     DutcLi  t^appho. 
Lessiug.     .-Esop  of  Gerniauy. 
Locke,   David   Koss.      llev.    Petroleum   V. 

Nasby. 
Tjokmun.     iEsop  of  Arabia. 
Lord,  Grace  V.     Virgiuia  Champlin. 

Mahomet.    Apostle  of  the  Sword. 

Manchester.     Cottonopolis. 

Marat,  Jean  Paul.     Friend  of  the  People. 

Marcellus.     Sword  of  Rome. 

Mar.-;den,  Samuel.  Apostle  of  New  Zea- 
land. 

Matsys,  Quentin.    Blacksmith  of  Antwerp. 

Meli,  Giovanni.     Sicilian  Anacreon. 

Mendoza,  Pedro  Gonzalez  de.  Great  Cardi- 
nal. 

Menno  Baron  van  Coehorn.  Dutch  Vau- 
ban. 

Montgomery,  James.     Alcaeus. 

Montpensier,  Duchesse  de  (Anne  Marie 
Louise  d'Orleans).  Grande  Mademoi- 
selle. 

Mundt,  Clara.     Louise  Muehlbach. 

Murfree,  Mary  N.  Charles  Egbert  Crad- 
dock. 

NefiF,  Felix.    Apostle  of  the  Alps. 
Norris,  Sir  John.     Foul-weather  Jack. 

Omar  Khayyam.    Astronomer-poet. 
•utram,  Sir  James.    Bayard  of  India. 

Parr,  Dr.  Samuel.    Brummagem  Johnson. 

Pindar.     Dircaean  Swan. 

Pitt,  William.     Ileaven-bom  Minister. 

Poore,  Ben  :  Perley.     Perley. 

Pratt,  Daniel.     Great  American  Traveler. 

Ram^,  liouise  de  la.    Ouida. 

UevolutioQ  of  1688.    Glorious  Revolution. 


Rich,  John.     Sun. 

Robert  II.  (Duke  of  Normandy).  Curt- 
Hose  (Short-Shanks). 

Rogers,  Samuel.     Banker  Poet. 

Kouie.  Head  of  the  World.  Niobe  of 
Nations. 

Sacheverell,  Lucy.     Althea. 
Salmon,  Jean.     French  Horace. 
Scott,  Sir  Walter.    Ariosto  of  the  North. 
Shaw,  Henry  AV.     Josh  Billings. 
Sherman,  William  T.     Old  Tecumseh. 
Smith,  Robert.     Bobus  Smith. 
Sterne,  Lawrence.     English  Seneca. 
Stockholm.     Venice  of  the  North. 
Stuart,  James.     Athenian  Stuart. 

Taylor,  Zachary.     Old  Zach. 

Terhune,  Mary  V.,  nee  Hawes.  Marion 
Harland. 

Times,  London.    Jupiter  of  the  Press. 

Tonna,  Mrs.  (Charlotte  A.  Brown.)  Char- 
lotte Elizabeth. 

Tucker,  Charlotte.  A.  L.  0.  E.  (A  Lady 
of  England.) 

Val  d'Azun.    Eden  of  the  Pyrenees. 
Venice.     City  of  the  Sea.     Mistress  of  the 

Adriatic.  Queen  of  the  Adriatic.  Silent 

City. 

Warner,  Anna  B.     Amy  Lothrop. 
Wellesley,  Arthur   (Duke  of   Wellington). 

Achilles  of  England. 
Wellington,   Duke  of.     Achilles  of  Eng. 

land. 
Wessel,  John.     Master  of  Contradiction. 
Whitcher,  Frances  M.     Widow  Bedott. 
AVilberforce,  William.     Friend  of  Man. 
Williani  Augustus  (Duke  of  Cumberland). 

Butcher  of  Culloden. 
Wordsworth,  William.    Cumberland  P©«t 


■TURN     CIRCULATION  DEPARTMENT 

3h^     202  Main  Library 


)AN  PERIOD  1 
HOME  USE 

2                                3 

5                                6 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

1  -month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling  642-3405 

6-monrh  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing  books  to  Circulation  Desk 

Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4  days  prior  to  due  date 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

-mrt^iw. 

— 

^prl^J% 

f 

1 

1               /         ^ 

Msseivf  c> 

4.»ia»^ 

ULATION  OtP' 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
DRAA  NO.  DD6,  60m,  3/80  BERKELEY,  CA  94720 


GENERAL  LIBRARY    U.C.  BERKELEY 


BDDD1bSfl3a 


960354 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


